catheterization laboratory events and hospital outcome with direct angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction to assess the safety of direct infarct angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy, catheterization laboratory and hospital events were assessed in consecutively treated patients with infarctions involving the left anterior descending (n = 100 patients), right (n = 100), and circumflex (n = 50) coronary arteries. the groups of patients were similar for age (left anterior descending coronary artery, 59 years; right coronary artery, 58 years; circumflex coronary artery, 62 years), patients with multivessel disease (left anterior descending coronary artery, 55%; right coronary artery, 55%; circumflex coronary artery, 64%), and patients with initial grade 0/1 antegrade flow (left anterior descending coronary artery, 79%; right coronary artery, 84%; circumflex coronary artery, 90%). cardiogenic shock was present in eight patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, four with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery. major catheterization laboratory events (cardioversion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, dopamine or intra-aortic balloon pump support for hypotension, and urgent surgery) occurred in 10 patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, eight with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery (16 of 16 shock and six of 234 nonshock patients, p less than 0.001). there was one in-laboratory death (shock patient with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery).
renal abscess in children. three cases of renal abscesses in children are described to illustrate the variable presenting features. an additional 23 pediatric cases, reported over the past ten years, were reviewed for clinical features and therapy. fever, loin pain, and leukocytosis were common presenting features, but less than half of all abscesses were associated with either an abnormal urinalysis or a positive urine culture. the presenting features were sometimes confused with appendicitis, peritonitis, or a wilms tumor. an organism was identified in 17 cases--escherichia coli in 9 children and staphylococcus aureus in 8 children. the majority of e. coli infections occurred in girls and the majority of s. aureus infections occurred in boys. reflux was documented in 5 patients, and 2 children had a possible extrarenal source of infection. antibiotics alone produced a cure in 10 children (38%), but 16 children (62%) required a surgical procedure.
hyperplastic polyps seen at sigmoidoscopy are markers for additional adenomas seen at colonoscopy. asymptomatic individuals undergoing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy were prospectively studied. polyps were found in 185 subjects. the endoscopist recorded an opinion on the polyps' histology based on endoscopic appearance. no polyps were removed at sigmoidoscopy. all subjects with rectosigmoid polyps then underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy. of them, 99 subjects (54%) had at least one rectosigmoid adenoma, 69 (37%) had only hyperplastic polyps, and 17 (9%) had other findings. the endoscopists' opinion of the histopathology of polyps at sigmoidoscopy was correct for 61% of the lesions. of subjects with adenomatous rectosigmoid polyps, 29% had additional adenomas at more proximal sites. proximal adenomas were found in 28% of patients with hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps. patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps had the same risk for additional proximal adenomas as patients with rectosigmoid adenomatous polyps.
subclavian artery to innominate vein fistula after insertion of a hemodialysis catheter. insertion of hemodialysis catheters for temporary use is now preferentially performed by percutaneous infraclavicular subclavian vein catheterization. this method involves passage of a stiff dilator and a peel-away sheath over a guide wire, and is usually carried out without fluoroscopy. for the most part this has proved to be a valuable and safe approach. however, a small incidence of major complications occurs, which needs to be emphasized. sixteen cases of arteriovenous fistulas between the subclavian artery or its branches and the subclavian vein have been reported so far in the literature. to date only one case of subclavian artery to innominate vein fistula has been reported. we report the second case with this complication and suggest possible preventive measures.
effect of local inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in the dorsomedial hypothalamus on extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and on stress-induced tachycardia: a study using microdialysis. previous studies involving local microinjection of drugs that interfere with gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba)a receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition have led to the suggestion that endogenous gaba suppresses the activity of a sympatho-excitatory mechanism in the dorsomedial hypothalamus in rats. in this study, microdialysis was used to assess and to alter pharmacologically extracellular-levels of gaba within this region while simultaneously monitoring heart rate and blood pressure. in anesthetized rats, local microdialysis for 15 min with 2.5, 10 and 40 mm nipecotic acid, an inhibitor of gaba uptake, caused concentration-related increases in gaba and taurine in the extracellular space, but no significant change in heart rate or arterial pressure. similar perfusion with 37.5, 75 and 150 mm kcl caused concentration-related increases in gaba as well as aspartate, glutamate, taurine, glycine and alanine. only modest, variable increases in heart rate and no effect on arterial pressure were observed during the perfusions with high potassium. in conscious rats, unilateral microdialysis of the dorsomedial hypothalamus with 0.5 mm nipecotic acid for 2 to 2.5 hr before stress coupled with contralateral microinjection of muscimol (88 pmol/250 nl) 5 min before stress significantly reduced air stress-induced tachycardia; this reduction in tachycardia was associated with markedly elevated levels of gaba in dialysates collected from the dorsomedial hypothalamus. neither treatment alone significantly influenced stress-induced increases in heart rate, although perfusion with nipecotic acid alone evoked similar elevations in extracellular gaba. these results suggest that extracellular levels of endogenous gaba in the dorsomedial hypothalamus may regulate the cardiovascular response to stress.
infection during chronic epidural catheterization: diagnosis and treatment. a potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection. the early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted. three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved; exit site and superficial catheter track infection, and epidural space infection. the authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients. all 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal. none of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression. catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections. it was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate. the use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established.
mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap after resection of carcinoma of the esophagus involving the proximal part of the trachea. an operative procedure of mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is presented. in this procedure, the terminal portion of the trachea penetrates through the center of a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap and the tracheal wall is completely wrapped with the muscular portion of the flap. between 1981 and 1988, eight patients with carcinoma in the cervicothoracic segment of the esophagus underwent mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy and extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea through sternal manubrectomy, because of invasion into the trachea. in five of eight patients, a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap was used to construct a tracheal stoma. a skin flap only, or both a skin flap and a muscle flap, was used in the other three. in four of eight patients, tracheal necrosis occurred, and rupture of the brachiocephalic artery occurred in one patient when the tracheal stoma had been constructed using both a skin flap and a muscle flap. however, neither skin breakdown nor bleeding from the major vessels occurred when using the myocutaneous flap. therefore, it is concluded that the construction of the tracheal stoma using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is recommended for mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy with extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea.
tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion of the extremity. report of a case and review of the literature. tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion is an idiopathic fibroinflammatory process of the head and neck region. although benign histopathologically, it is invasive, destructive, and locally recurrent, leading to uncertainty regarding its proper management; as the disease is rare, determining optimal treatment is difficult, given the anecdotal nature of reports. we report the first case of a tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion occurring outside the head and neck region. our patient was treated with corticosteroids and had a favorable response, supporting this approach as initial treatment. immunohistochemical studies performed on a pretreatment specimen were consistent with a secondary inflammatory component because no monoclonal nor aberrant phenotypes were detected. the tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion appears to be indistinguishable from the other known idiopathic fibroinflammatory processes; patients presenting with any one of these should be evaluated for the others.
multiple representations contribute to body knowledge processing. evidence from a case of autotopagnosia. body schema disturbances were studied in a 62-yr-old woman with alzheimer's disease. she was severely impaired in verbal and nonverbal tasks requiring her to localize body parts (on her own body, the examiner's body or a doll's body) even though she correctly named the same parts when pointed at by the examiner. pointing responses were misdirected mainly to parts contiguous with the target area and, to a lesser extent, to functionally equivalent body parts. we also found that the patient was able to define body part names functionally but not spatially. in another series of tasks, and in contrast to the above results, performances were normal when small objects, attached to the patient's body, served as pointing targets. furthermore, on subsequent testing she pointed correctly at the remembered position of these objects. the fact that the same point in 'body space' is localized correctly when it corresponds to an external object and erroneously when it corresponds to a body part contradicts the idea of the body schema as a unitary function. learning the position of objects on the body surface requires access to some form of body-reference system on which this information can be mapped. we argue that such a system can be available in autotopagnosia and is independent from the visuospatial representations of the body structure that are postulated to be damaged or inaccessible in this syndrome. an integrated account of the present results and of those reported by other authors suggests that multiple levels of representation (e.g., sensorimotor, visuospatial, semantic) are involved in the organization of body knowledge.
increasing asthma prevalence in a rural new zealand adolescent population: 1975-89. a survey of asthma symptoms and spirometry in 435 adolescent schoolchildren was undertaken in 1989 in a rural, largely maori population. the survey questionnaires were identical to those used in a 1975 survey at the same school. the prevalence of reported asthma or wheeze significantly increased from 26.2% to 34.0%. this increase occurred in groups reporting asthma, and also those reporting wheeze unassociated with colds, but without a previous diagnosis of asthma. there was a tendency for a rise in reported wheeze in europeans (24.3% to 27.4%) and a significant rise in maoris (27.1% to 36.2%). the reclassification of other respiratory problems did not account for the increase. data from this study provides evidence that there has been a rise in the prevalence of asthma in this new zealand population over a time period of 14 years.
usefulness of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator in improving survival of patients with severely depressed left ventricular function associated with coronary artery disease. clinical outcome was analyzed among a group of 39 consecutive patients with coronary artery disease, left ventricular (lv) ejection fractions less than 30% and arrhythmias that required an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (aicd) in an attempt to better define the role of the device in patients with severely depressed lv function. twenty-nine (74%) were survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and 10 (26%) had ventricular tachycardia that was refractory to electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic therapy. the study group had the following demographic characteristics: 90% were men, mean age was 64 years (range 41 to 79) and mean lv ejection fraction was 21 +/- 4%. concomitant pharmacotherapy included antiarrhythmic drugs 31 (79%), vasodilators in 22 (56%) and digoxin in 20 (51%). there was no statistical difference in baseline characteristics between survivors and nonsurvivors. patients were followed for a mean of 24 months (range 2 to 72) from implantation. the difference between actuarial survival--77% at 1 year and 72% at 2 years--and projected survival without the aicd (patients who survive without appropriate device discharge)--30% at 1 year and 21% at 2 years--was significant (p less than 0.01 and less than 0.05 at 1 and 2 years, respectively). this study suggests that the aicd improves survival in patients with coronary artery disease despite severely depressed lv function.
stress-related mucosal damage: review of drug therapy. the increased awareness of stress-related mucosal damage (srmd) that accompanied the widespread use of fiberoptic endoscopy and the increased incidence of srmd that accompanied the advances in caring for critically ill patients resulted in the recognition that the majority of patients in the intensive care unit (icu) setting wil develop mucosal damage. complications of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in these patients may contribute significantly to their morbidity and mortality, and the consequences of this bleeding may be more severe than the underlying predisposing conditions. because of the importance of gastric acid in the pathogenesis of srmd, therapy has focused on reduction of the intraluminal acid concentration. acid neutralization, while effective, is laborious and associated with side effects. h2-receptor antagonists have been used successfully in the prophylaxis and treatment of srmd and offer the potential for an effective parenteral as well as oral agent. they obviate the need for frequent antacid administration and eliminate some of the troubles and side effects that accompany an intensive antacid regimen. of the available h2-receptor antagonists, cimetidine has been the most thoroughly evaluated. it is equivalent to antacids in the prevention of overt bleeding and offers the advantage of dosing flexibility, ease of administration, and a remarkable safety profile. cimetidine has also been shown to be effective when administered by intermittent bolus infusions given every 8, 6, or 4 h or by primed continuous infusion, which has proven to be the most successful method of controlling intragastric ph.
a biphasic pattern of anti-pre-s responses in acute hepatitis b virus infection. the clinical relevance of the immune response to the translation products of the pre-s1 and pre-s2 regions of hepatitis b virus was examined by testing sequential serum samples from 17 patients with acute self-limited hepatitis b and from two patients in whom chronic liver disease developed. anti-pre-s antibodies were determined by enzyme immunoassays based on the inhibition of binding of monoclonal antibodies to epitopes in the pre-s1 and pre-s2 sequence. in acute, self-limited infection, anti-pre-s antibodies appeared in a biphasic pattern. the early antibodies were detected at the time of clinical signs of acute disease when hbsag and often hbeag were present, but hepatitis b virus dna was no longer detectable in serum. anti-pre-s levels then fell, but subsequently reappeared as the late antibody during the recovery phase, after development of anti-hbe, but before anti-hbs. anti-pre-s responses were detected in 15 of 17 patients who recovered (88.2%) and in both patients with acute hepatitis b virus infection evolving to chronic liver disease. although the early antibodies to pre-s1 and pre-s2 proteins appeared at the time of decreasing levels of infectious virus in serum in cases of self-limited infection, these antibodies also were transiently or continuously present with high levels of serum hepatitis b virus dna in patients in whom chronic hepatitis b infection developed. thus the anti-pre-s response in acute hepatitis is not a prognostic marker for clinical resolution.
a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir in neonatal herpes simplex virus infection. infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group. background. despite the use of vidarabine, herpes simplex virus (hsv) infection in neonates continues to be a disease of high morbidity and mortality. we undertook a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir for the treatment of neonatal hsv infection. methods. babies less than one month of age with virologically confirmed hsv infection were randomly and blindly assigned to receive either intravenous vidarabine (30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day; n = 95) or acyclovir (30 mg per kilogram per day; n = 107) for 10 days. actuarial rates of mortality and morbidity among the survivors after one year were compared overall and according to the extent of the disease at entry into the study (infection confined to the skin, eyes, or mouth; encephalitis; or disseminated disease). results. after adjustment for differences between groups in the extent of disease, there was no difference between vidarabine and acyclovir in either morbidity (p = 0.83) or mortality (p = 0.27). none of the 85 babies with disease confined to the skin, eyes, or mouth died. of the 31 babies in this group who were treated with vidarabine and followed for a year, 88 percent (22 of 25) were judged to be developing normally after one year, as compared with 98 percent (45 of 46) of the 54 treated with acyclovir (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -4 to 24). for the 71 babies with encephalitis, mortality was 14 percent with vidarabine (5 of 36) and with acyclovir (5 of 35); of the survivors, 43 percent (13 of 30) and 29 percent (8 of 28), respectively, were developing normally after one year (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -11 to 39). for the 46 babies with disseminated disease, mortality was 50 percent (14 of 28) with vidarabine and 61 percent (11 of 18) with acyclovir (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -20 to 40); of the survivors, 58 percent (7 of 12) and 60 percent (3 of 5), respectively, were judged to be developing normally after one year (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -40 to 50). both medications were without serious toxic effects. conclusions. in this multicenter, randomized, blinded study there were no differences in outcome between vidarabine and acyclovir in the treatment of neonatal hsv infection. the study lacked statistical power to determine whether there were sizable differences within the subgroups of those with localized hsv, encephalitis, or disseminated disease.
pentostatin induces durable remissions in hairy cell leukemia. fifty patients with hairy cell leukemia were treated with pentostatin (2'-deoxycoformycin; dcf) for a median of 3 months; 32 (64%) patients achieved complete remission (cr), and 10 (20%) patients achieved partial remission (pr), for an overall response rate of 84%. after reaching maximal response, no maintenance therapy was administered. the median duration of follow-up is now 39 months, and only four of 32 patients in cr and two of 10 patients in pr have relapsed. dcf therapy produces durable long-term, disease-free survival in patients with hairy cell leukemia.
cytologic features of poorly differentiated 'insular' carcinoma of the thyroid, as revealed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. the authors report on the cytologic features of six cases of poorly differentiated "insular" carcinoma (ic) of the thyroid, a recently described variety of thyroid tumor intermediate between well-differentiated and anaplastic neoplasms. it is characterized by trabecular and/or alveolar growth patterns, merging with follicular areas, and by the absence of pleomorphism in the tumor cells. fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) materials (both smears and cell-block preparations) from six patients were reviewed after the diagnosis of ic was confirmed on the surgical specimen. the following cytologic features were consistently found: high cellularity and necrotic background; low grade of atypia; trabeculae and/or clusters, possibly associated with microfollicles, of cells with poorly defined cytoplasm; and cytoplasmic vacuoles containing thyroglobulin. nuclear inclusions and grooving of the nuclear surface were additional features. preoperative diagnosis suggestive of ic might be of value for planning surgical treatment and subsequent therapy.
cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma. we report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma, using a retrospective review of 115 patients' records obtained from tumor registry files. five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus. twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis. one patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma. the last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and, in the course of a standard workup, he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. these findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma.
steal-prone coronary anatomy and myocardial ischemia associated with four primary anesthetic agents in humans. to examine the relationship between myocardial ischemia in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy and the administration of isoflurane anesthesia, we reviewed coronary angiograms of 955 patients who had participated in a randomized trial of the use of one of four primary anesthetics for coronary artery bypass operations. steal-prone anatomy was found in 31.8% of patients who had received enflurane; 40.0%, halothane; 32.6%, isoflurane; and 31.7%, sufentanil. detected by greater than or equal to 0.1 mv st segment displacement, ischemia during anesthesia occurred in 290 (30.4%) of all patients with no difference in the incidence among the four primary anesthetics (27.5%-32.9%). patients with steal-prone anatomy did not suffer more ischemia than patients who needed coronary artery bypass surgery but with other varieties of coronary anatomy. in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy, the incidence of myocardial ischemia by primary anesthetic was 24.0% with enflurane, 34.4% with halothane, 32.1% with isoflurane, and 38.2% with sufentanil. systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg during anesthesia occurred in 416 (45.6%) patients and was twice as common during administration of volatile anesthetics than during that of sufentanil. hypotension did not increase ischemia frequency in patients with steal-prone anatomy with use of any of the four primary anesthetics including isoflurane. ischemia was temporally related to hypotension in only 9 patients (0.9%). in none of the 42 patients who had steal-prone anatomy and hypotension during isoflurane anesthesia was ischemia temporally related to hypotension.
ewing's sarcoma. radiotherapy versus surgery for local control. significant strides in the treatment of ewing's sarcoma, the second most common bone tumor of childhood, have resulted in cure for approximately 50% of patients. successful therapy requires systemic chemotherapy for the eradication of microscopic or overt metastatic disease and surgery or irradiation therapy for control of the primary lesion. the article debates the controversy over the extent to which surgical resection should play a role in the local management of this disease.
tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin. case report. the authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction. two similar cases were found upon review of the literature. the embryology of this lesion is discussed.
immunohistochemical detection of p-glycoprotein in endometrial adenocarcinoma. p-glycoprotein (pgp) has emerged as the central mediator in classic multidrug resistance in model systems in vitro. high levels of pgp also have been detected in many normal human tissues and tumors; and its role in clinical drug resistance is currently under investigation. recently significant levels of pgp were localized to gravid and secretory endometrium; and it was demonstrated that the combination of estrogen and progesterone is sufficient to induce high levels of both pgp mrna and pgp in uterine secretory epithelium. these findings suggest that increased pgp expression also may be present in hormone-responsive malignancies such as endometrial adenocarcinoma. to determine whether pgp is expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma, 36 endometrial adenocarcinomas (grade i [n = 17]; grade ii [n = 6]; grade iii [n = 13]) were investigated retrospectively by the avidin-biotin-complex immunohistochemical procedure using three murine monoclonal antibodies (mab) mab c219, mab c494, and mab jsb-1, which recognize spatially distinct cytoplasmic epitopes of pgp. seventy-two percent of the tumors showed positive immunostaining with at least one mab; 67% showed immunostaining with mab c219, 50% with mab c494, and 62% with mab jsb-1. forty-six percent of tumors were immunoreactive to two and 29% to all three antibodies. membranous and golgi/paranuclear type staining patterns were observed. overall the intensity of immunostaining varied from one sample to another for a given tumor type, and considerable heterogeneity of expression was commonly seen within a given tumor. strong to moderate immunoreactivity was seen in diffusely infiltrating, adenosquamous, and serous papillary carcinomas. in general, immunoreactivity to mab c494 was weaker than mab c219 or mab jsb-1. adenomatous and non-neoplastic endometrium adjacent to the tumors displayed strong membranous immunostaining with mab jsb-1. endometrial capillaries showed weak-to-moderate immunostaining to all three antibodies. it is concluded that pgp is commonly expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma and may be a significant factor responsible for their drug-resistant nature subject to modulation by progesterone.
acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children. study objective: to test the hypothesis that quantitation of either c-reactive protein (crp) or the total peripheral wbc count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children. design: cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection, signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure, levels of crp in serum, and total peripheral wbc counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses. setting: emergency department and acute care "walk-in" clinic of an urban, university-affiliated general hospital. participants: 160 previously well, acutely febrile infants and children (median age, 6 months). results: the prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6%. sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17. sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81. of the acute phase reactants, sensitivity of a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl was 0.80, while that of a total peripheral wbc count of more than 15,000/mm3 was 0.40. the presence of signs and/or a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). the absence of signs and a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.47). of 125 children without meningeal signs, the combination of symptoms and a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). the absence of these symptoms and/or a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.66). conclusion: quantitation of crp but not the total peripheral wbc count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis. measurement of crp in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child.
follicular thyroid cancer treated at the mayo clinic, 1946 through 1970: initial manifestations, pathologic findings, therapy, and outcome we retrospectively analyzed the outcome of all patients who received their primary treatment for follicular thyroid cancer at the mayo clinic between 1946 and 1970. the diagnosis was confirmed by reexamination of preserved tissue specimens. the 57 female and 43 male patients (mean age, 53 years) underwent follow-up for a maximum of 32 years (mean, 17.4 years). all patients were treated surgically, and total removal of primary tumor was thought to have been accomplished in all but three. only 2 of the 88 patients without distant metastatic lesions at the time of initial diagnosis underwent ablation of the thyroid remnant. at the conclusion of the study, 52 patients had died, thyroid cancer being the cause of death in 19. on the basis of univariate survival analysis, age more than 50 years, tumor size that exceeded 3.9 cm, higher tumor grade, presence of marked vascular invasion, adjacent tissue invasion, and distant metastatic involvement at the time of initial diagnosis were associated with increased cancer mortality. multivariate analysis (by cox proportional hazards model), however, identified only age greater than 50 years, marked vascular invasion, and metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis to be independent predictors of follicular thyroid cancer-related mortality. patients with two or more of these predictors were classified as being high risk. these patients had 5- and 20-year survival rates of 47% and 8%, respectively; the corresponding survival data for the low-risk group were 99% at 5 years and 86% at 20 years. the identification of these risk groups may facilitate a more rational approach to treatment of follicular thyroid cancer.
hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. a prospective, consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from grades 1 to v according to the classification of hunt and hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) and surgery. sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up. twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the sah and surgery. the mean time from the sah to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days (day of the sah) to 2 years (mean, 6.7 months). the seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients (31%) and as generalized in 20 patients (69%). all patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure. the risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were, in order of importance: a history of hypertension; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan; and the duration of coma after the ictus. of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension, 17 (20.0%) developed epilepsy. only 12 (5.4%) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures. the difference between the groups was significant (p = 0.0001). computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after the sah and surgery. postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan (p = 0.0005).
mortality in acute stroke with atrial fibrillation. the italian acute stroke study group. we compared 211 consecutive patients who had acute ischemic hemispheric stroke and atrial fibrillation with 837 consecutive patients who had stroke without atrial fibrillation. the atrial fibrillation group included a higher frequency of women, older subjects, and those with a severe neurologic deficit, abnormal computed tomogram, and elevated heart rate. the 1-month case-fatality rate in the atrial fibrillation group was 27% while that in the group without atrial fibrillation was 14%. the 6-month case-fatality rates in the two groups were 40% and 20%, respectively. the risk of death attributable to atrial fibrillation, adjusted for the effect of other prognostic factors, was significant at 1 month (relative risk = 1.55) and at 6 months (relative risk = 1.74). the causes of death were equally distributed in the two groups during both the acute and subacute phases. we conclude that atrial fibrillation is a negative prognostic factor in patients hospitalized for acute stroke. nevertheless, cerebral embolism alone does not completely explain the increase in mortality for stroke patients with atrial fibrillation. other associated pathogenetic mechanisms must also be taken into account.
renal replacement treatment for diabetic patients in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region, 1964-88. objectives--to review the experience of renal replacement treatment in diabetic patients treated in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region from 1964 to 1988, and to compare the morbidity and mortality of diabetic patients treated with dialysis or transplantation with those of matched controls of non-diabetic patients. design--retrospective study of clinical case notes. setting--renal units of the northern region, particularly that in newcastle upon tyne. patients--all 65 diabetic patients treated by renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne from 1964 to 1987; 42 diabetic patients were matched with 42 non-diabetic patients according to age, sex, year of starting treatment, and type of treatment (dialysis or transplantation). main outcome measures--sex, age, renal biopsy findings, blood pressure, history of diabetic treatment, and plasma creatinine concentration at the start of renal replacement treatment. history of renal replacement treatments, suitability for transplantation, history of transplantation, cumulative survival, and cause of death during follow up. survival of technique, cumulative survival of the first peritoneal catheter and history of peritonitis in patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis; source of graft, histocompatibility antigens, duration of associated stay in hospital, and graft survival in patients receiving renal or pancreatic transplant. results--1259 patients with chronic renal failure were accepted for renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne, of whom 65 (5%) had diabetes. the first was accepted in 1974, and between 1974 and 1980 another 15 were treated (mean age 42 years; 4% of new patients). from 1981 to 1987, 49 diabetic patients (mean age 44; 9% of new patients) were treated. fifty patients (77%) had insulin dependent diabetes and the remaining 15 (23%) non-insulin dependent diabetes. on average, the patients were aged 25 (range 5-57) when diabetes was first diagnosed and 44 (range 24-70) at the start of renal replacement treatment. the mean age at the start of treatment was 40 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes and 58 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes. transplantation was performed in 33 of the diabetic patients, whose mean age was lower than that of those who did not receive a transplant (41 v 48 respectively, p less than 0.05). comparison between the 42 diabetic patients and matched controls showed that the overall survival at five years was 46% and 77% respectively. the three year survival of the diabetic patients who did not receive a transplant was poor (41% v 79% respectively). of patients transplanted, survival at five years was 73% in the diabetic patients and 90% in the controls. however, there was no significant difference in the five year graft survival (64% v 46% respectively). conclusions--diabetes adversely affects morbidity and mortality in patients having renal replacement treatment, but renal transplantation seems to be the best option for treating diabetic patients with end stage renal failure.
acute urinary retention secondary to herpes simplex meningitis. we report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions. since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis, lumbosacral disk herniation, rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication, a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes. as part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis. culture of herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted. we recommend conservative management only, typically with intermittent catheterization, since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days.
indications for computed tomography in children with blunt abdominal trauma. this investigation was undertaken to identify clinical variables, alone or in combination, that could be used to assign children to high- and low-risk categories for intra-abdominal injury following blunt trauma. six hundred consecutive children who were examined with computed tomography (ct) following blunt trauma were enrolled. complete data sets were available on 375 children. stepwise logistic regression was used to identify predictor variables for the presence of abdominal injury. there were 174 children with abdominal injury detected by ct. of these, 95 were classified as having significant injury. indicators associated with significantly higher risk of abdominal injury included the following: more than three clinical indications given (odds likelihood ratio [olr] = 4.60, 95% confidence interval [95% cl] = 2.29, 9.21, p less than 0.001); gross hematuria (olr = 5.80, 95% cl = 2.51, 13.4, p less than 0.001); lap belt injury (olr = 12.2, 95% cl = 2.22, 66.8, p less than 0.01); assault or abuse as the mechanism of injury (olr = 5.08, 95% cl = 1.07, 24.2, p less than 0.05); abdominal tenderness (olr = 2.73, 95% cl = 1.296, 5.82, p less than 0.01); and trauma score less than or equal to 12 (olr = 2.27, 95% cl = 1.006, 5.13, p less than 0.01). no child with asymptomatic hematuria (n = 56), regardless of grade or neurologic impairment in the absence of abdominal findings (n = 15), had an abnormal ct examination. these data are useful as an adjunct to clinical judgment in triage when the availability of ct equipment is limited or there are competing extra-abdominal injuries.
lexical organization of nouns and verbs in the brain. the analysis of neuropsychological disorders of lexical processing has provided important clues about the general organization of the lexical system and the internal structure of the processing components. reports of patients with selective dysfunction of specific semantic categories such as abstract versus concrete words, living things versus inanimate objects, animals, fruits and vegetables, proper names and so forth, support the hypothesis that the neural organization of the semantic processing component is organized in these categories. there are reports of selective dysfunction of the grammatical categories noun and verb, suggesting that a dimension of lexical organization is the grammatical class of words. but the results reported in these studies have not provided unambiguous evidence concerning two fundamental questions about the nature and the locus of this organization within the lexical system. is the noun-verb distinction represented in the semantic or in the phonological and orthographic lexicons? is grammatical-class knowledge represented independently of lexical forms or is it represented separately and redundantly within each modality-specific lexicon? here we report the performance of two brain-damaged subjects with modality-specific deficits restricted principally (h.w.) or virtually only (s.j.d) to verbs in oral and written production, respectively. the contrasting performance suggests that grammatical-class distinctions are redundantly represented in the phonological and orthographic output lexical components.
vitamin b6 in the treatment of the premenstrual syndrome--a review [published erratum appears in br j obstet gynaecol 1991 mar;98(3):329-30] a search of the literature yielded 12 controlled trials on vitamin b6 in the treatment of the premenstrual syndrome. these are discussed with emphasis on methodological aspects. a major drawback of the trials is the limited number of patients included. the existing evidence of positive effects of vitamin b6 is weak, and some well-designed trials with positive results would be needed to change this view.
ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities. a total of 111 amniotic fluid samples, clear or blood stained, with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined. samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly, 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14. all 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14. these results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly, open spina bifida, encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. the procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory.
colonic motor activity in acute colitis in conscious dogs. the changes in motor activity of the colon during acute colitis were investigated in six conscious dogs. the motor activity was recorded with seven strain-gauge transducers. colitis was induced in the entire colon by luminal perfusion of acetic acid. the dogs exhibited urgency and diarrhea with mucus and blood during colitis. the mucosa was diffusely erythematous and friable and there were scattered ulcerations over the mucosal surface. the motor activity of the colon changed in several ways during colitis: (a) the total duration per hour and the mean duration of contractile states decreased significantly; (b) the cycle length of colonic migrating motor complexes was significantly prolonged, and the nonmigrating motor complexes were almost completely absent; and (d) the incidence of giant migrating contractions increased significantly. about half of the giant migrating contractions were followed by defecation. the remaining expelled mucus or gas. sometimes, a migrating motor complex in the colon was also followed by defecation; this was never observed in the normal state. the motor activity of the colon was still decreased and the cycle length prolonged 21 days after induction of colitis. however, the dogs were asymptomatic at this time and the mucosa looked normal at colonoscopy. the incidence of giant migrating contractions was also normal at this time. it was concluded that the dog is a good model for the study of colitis because of the similarity of symptoms with human ulcerative colitis. the phasic contractions of the colon decreases during colitis but the incidence of giant migrating contractions is increased. the diarrhea in colitis may primarily be due to the large number of giant migrating contractions in the middle and the distal colon.
ki67 index and s-phase fraction in human breast carcinomas. comparison and correlations with prognostic factors. in a prospective study of 148 consecutive breast adenocarcinomas, proliferative indices of the same surgical tumor sample were performed by immunohistologic staining (ki67 index) with the use of the ki67 monoclonal antibody, which binds to a nuclear antigen only expressed in cycling cells, and by flow cytometry-derived s-phase fraction (spf). measurable ki67 and spf indices were obtained in 142 cases and 99 cases, respectively, and in 96 cases by both methods. in aneuploid tumors, a significant but low (p less than 0.05, r = 0.3) relationship was observed between ki67 index and spf. when compared with clinical, pathologic, and biochemical parameters these two proliferative indices were shown to be associated with nuclear grading and mitotic index. additionally, correlations were observed between ki67 index and node involvement (p less than 0.02) and between spf and estrogen receptors (p = 0.002). these results show that (1) proliferative indices are obtained in 96% of surgical samples with ki67 versus 67% with spf and that (2) ki67 index and spf may provide complementary data with respect to prognosis.
effects of menstrual phase and amenorrhea on exercise performance in runners. there are few well controlled studies in terms of subject selection, menstrual classification, and exercise protocol that have examined both maximal and submaximal exercise responses during different phases of the menstrual cycle in eumenorrheic runners and compared these runners to amenorrheic runners. thus, the purpose of this study was to measure selected physiological and metabolic responses to maximal and submaximal exercise during two phases of the menstrual cycle in eumenorrheic runners and amenorrheic runners. eight eumenorrheic runners (29.0 +/- 4.2 yr) and eight amenorrheic runners (24.5 +/- 5.7 yr) matched for physical, gynecological, and training characteristics were studied. the eumenorrheic runners performed one maximal and one submaximal (40 min at 80% vo2max) treadmill run during both the early follicular (days 2-4) and midluteal (6-8 d from lh surge) phases. the amenorrheic runners performed one maximal and one submaximal (40 min at 80% vo2max) treadmill run. cycle phases were documented by urinary luteinizing hormone and progesterone assays and by plasma estradiol and progesterone assays. no differences were observed in oxygen uptake, minute ventilation, heart rate, respiratory exchange ratio, rating of perceived exertion, time to fatigue (maximal), and plasma lactate (following the maximal and submaximal exercise tests) between the follicular and luteal phases in the eumenorrheic runners and the amenorrheic runners. we conclude that neither menstrual phase (follicular vs luteal) nor menstrual status (eumenorrheic vs amenorrheic) alters or limits exercise performance in female athletes.
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the lung. congenital nonvascular anomalies of the lung can be subdivided into those affecting the bronchial tree and those affecting parenchymal abnormalities. embryologic development of the lung is briefly reviewed to facilitate an understanding of developmental pulmonary anomalies. clinical, radiographic, and therapeutic aspects of these anomalies are discussed.
clarifying confusion: the confusion assessment method. a new method for detection of delirium objective: to develop and validate a new standardized confusion assessment method (cam) that enables nonpsychiatric clinicians to detect delirium quickly in high-risk settings. design: prospective validation study. setting: conducted in general medicine wards and in an outpatient geriatric assessment center at yale university (site 1) and in general medicine wards at the university of chicago (site 2). patients: the study included 56 subjects, ranging in age from 65 to 98 years. at site 1, 10 patients with and 20 without delirium participated; at site 2, 16 patients with and 10 without delirium participated. measurements and main results: an expert panel developed the cam through a consensus building process. the cam instrument, which can be completed in less than 5 minutes, consists of nine operationalized criteria from the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm-iii-r). an a priori hypothesis was established for the diagnostic value of four criteria: acute onset and fluctuating course, inattention, disorganized thinking, and altered level of consciousness. the cam algorithm for diagnosis of delirium required the presence of both the first and the second criteria and of either the third or the fourth criterion. at both sites, the diagnoses made by the cam were concurrently validated against the diagnoses made by psychiatrists. at sites 1 and 2 values for sensitivity were 100% and 94%, respectively; values for specificity were 95% and 90%; values for positive predictive accuracy were 91% and 94%; and values for negative predictive accuracy were 100% and 90%. the cam algorithm had the highest predictive accuracy for all possible combinations of the nine features of delirium. the cam was shown to have convergent agreement with four other mental status tests, including the mini-mental state examination. the interobserver reliability of the cam was high (kappa = 0.81 - 1.0). conclusions: the cam is sensitive, specific, reliable, and easy to use for identification of delirium.
the mutation for medullary thyroid carcinoma with parathyroid tumors (mtc with pts) is closely linked to the centromeric region of chromosome 10. two new morphs (f and g) detected by the centromeric alpha satellite probe p alpha 10rp8 and d10z1 in hinfi digests are linked to the psti polymorphisms of d10z1, confirming their chromosome 10 location. the f and g morphs were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other but were in weak linkage disequilibrium with the a and b morphs defined in psti digests. data for haplotypes formed by using the a and f morphs improved the lod score for linkage between the disease locus for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a (men2a) and d10z1 (z = 14.06 at theta = 0) in the six large families studied by wu et al. furthermore, the locus that codes for a distinct phenotype, medullary thyroid carcinoma (mtc) with parathyroid tumors (pts) and no pheochromocytomas (pheos) (referred to as mtc with pts), in one of the families was closely linked to two markers, d10z1 and rbp3, with lodscores of 2.86 and 3.54, respectively, at theta = 0. a possible allelic association was noted between disease phenotypes and centromeric haplotypes. the phenotype mtc and pheos with and without pts was associated with the same relatively common centromeric haplotype (a + b-f-g-) in the four families in which all four morphs could be determined, while the phenotype mtc with pts was associated with the rare centromeric haplotype (a-b-f-g+) in one family.
the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry: overview of acute hemodynamic results and procedural complications. between december 1, 1986 and october 30, 1987, balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed in 492 patients with aortic stenosis (mean age 79 +/- 8.4 years) enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry. all procedures were performed from a femoral approach (92%), brachial approach (6%) or transseptal approach (2%) and utilized either a single balloon technique (72%) or a double balloon technique (28%). valvuloplasty resulted in a significant improvement in aortic valve area (0.50 +/- 0.18 cm2 to 0.82 +/- 0.30 cm2), mean aortic valve gradient (60 +/- 23 mm hg to 30 +/- 13 mm hg) and cardiac output (3.86 +/- 1.26 to 4.05 +/- 1.31 liters/min). serial aortography demonstrated a moderate or severe increase in aortic insufficiency in only 2.1% of patients. statistical analysis of the procedural factors affecting acute valvuloplasty results demonstrated significant correlations of single versus double balloon technique, total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with respect to the absolute change in mean aortic valve gradient occurring during the valvuloplasty procedure. in addition, there was a significant correlation between the maximal time of valvuloplasty balloon inflation with aortic valve area measured after valvuloplasty, and there were significant correlations of the total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with the aortic valve mean gradient measured after valvuloplasty. the overall complication rate for the procedure was 20.5%, including vascular injury in 11%, embolic phenomenon in 2.2%, ventricular perforation resulting in tamponade in 1.8%, massive aortic insufficiency in 1%, nonfatal arrhythmia in 0.8% and myocardial infarction in 0.2%.
meralgia paresthetica after coronary bypass surgery. meralgia paresthetica is a neurologic disorder characterized by localized paresthesia and numbness on the anterolateral aspect of the thigh and involving the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve. it involves no motor deficits. meralgia paresthetica, which may result from a variety of causes, has been observed as a rare complication in heart operations. its cause when associated with such operations is uncertain but may be prolonged relaxed positioning on the operating table and recovery room stretcher. another possible cause of meralgia paresthetica after heart operations is the "frog-leg" position of the legs during vein harvesting. patients with this condition should be advised of its untreatable, but benign and self-limiting, nature.
modified anterior compartment resection. in the majority of patients with soft tissue sarcomas of the anterior compartment of the thigh, it is possible to preserve a small portion of the quadriceps with intact nerve supply without compromising on the radicality of the procedure or the local control rate. the distal one-third of the vastus medialis can usually be spared with a long, slender branch providing its innervation. dissection of the femoral nerve below the inguinal ligament and its branch(es) to an uninvolved area of the quadricepts the farthest from the location of the tumor is essential. this modified anterior compartment resection improves dramatically the function of the extremity.
pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group: the prostate--an unusual location. pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare, with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature. we present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery.
recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor delta gene in peripheral t cell lymphomas. recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor (tcr) delta-chain gene were studied in 37 cases of peripheral t cell lymphoma (ptcl) and related to their clinical presentation and the expression of the alpha beta or gamma delta heterodimers as determined by immunostaining of frozen tissue samples. there were 22 cases of alpha beta, 5 cases of gamma delta, and 10 cases of silent tcr expressing neither the alpha beta nor gamma delta tcr. 5 different probes were used to examine the delta locus. the 22 cases of alpha beta ptcl displayed biallelic and monoallelic deletions; a monoallelic v delta 1 j delta 1 rearrangement was observed in 1 case and a monoallelic germ line configuration in 7 cases. the 5 cases of gamma delta ptcl displayed biallelic rearrangements: the productive rearrangements could be ascribed to v delta 1j delta 1 joining in 3 cases and vj delta 1 joining in 2 cases according to the combined pattern of dna hybridization with the appropriate probes and of cell reactivity with the tcr delta-1, delta tcs-1, and anti-v delta 2 monoclonal antibodies. in the vj delta 1 joining, the rearranged v segments were located between v delta 1 and v delta 2. interestingly, in the third group of 10 cases of silent ptcl, 5 cases were found to have a tcr gene configuration identical to that in the tcr alpha beta ptcl, as demonstrated by biallelic delta gene deletion. these 5 cases were cd3 positive. the 5 remaining cases showed a monoallelic delta gene rearrangement with a monoallelic germ line configuration in 4 and a monoallelic deletion in 1. four of these cases were cd3 negative, which was consistent with an immature genotype the tcr commitent of which could not be ascertained. finally, tcr gamma delta ptcl consisted of a distinct clinical morphological and molecular entity whereas tcr alpha beta and silent ptcl had a similar presentation.
neonatal repair of tetralogy of fallot with and without pulmonary atresia. our experience with the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries has confirmed the attainability of excellent results with elective neonatal surgery. up to this time, we have repaired tetralogy of fallot during the neonatal period only when symptoms, either severe persistent cyanosis or cyanotic spells, have been present. this review assesses the results of such nonelective neonatal correction of tetralogy between 1973 and 1988. twenty-seven neonates with either symptomatic tetralogy of fallot or symptomatic tetralogy of fallot with valvar pulmonary atresia underwent repair. mean age at repair was 8 +/- 8.4 days and mean weight was 3.0 +/- 0.7 kg. unsatisfactory palliative shunts had previously been placed elsewhere in four patients. twenty-five transannular patches and two conduits were used for reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract. there were five deaths in the hospital, three of which were due to avoidable technical problems. all deaths occurred in patients with pulmonary artery (nakata) index less than 150 mm2/m2. one premature child weighing 2.3 kg displayed an absent pulmonary valve-like syndrome after repair and died late of respiratory complications caused by aneurysmal branch pulmonary arteries. actuarial survival at 5 years was 74%. there was a single rapidly declining hazard phase for death, with the hazard approaching zero at 1 1/2 years after repair. actuarial freedom from need for reoperation was 76% at 5 years. postoperative catheterization of 15 long-term survivors showed right ventricular pressure less than 70% systemic in 13 cases. all patients are symptomatically well and functioning in sinus rhythm 1 to 15 years after repair (mean, 5 +/- 4 years). this experience with neonates with symptoms suggests that, if mortality is lower in the absence of symptoms, elective repair of tetralogy of fallot could be reasonably undertaken during the first months of life.
cardiac rhythm disturbances early after orthotopic heart transplantation: prevalence and clinical importance of the observed abnormalities. to precisely define the incidence, type and consequences of cardiac arrhythmias early after heart transplantation, 25 cardiac transplant recipients were monitored continuously for 728 days from the day of surgery to discharge or death. a subset of 15 patients had sinus node function studies with overdrive suppression performed weekly at the time of endomyocardial biopsy. results revealed sinus bradycardia in 10 patients (40%) and junctional bradycardia in 6 (24%). supraventricular tachycardia in the form of atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter occurred in 11 patients (44%). ventricular tachycardia occurred in 15 patients (60%) and was nonsustained in all. cardiac pacing for 1,403 h was used in nine patients with a pulse rate less than 50 beats/min; seven recovered and permanent pacing was instituted in two. in the subgroup that had sinus node function studies, seven patients were identified with clinical bradyarrhythmia; each had abnormal sinus node recovery time (greater than 1,400 ms) and abnormal corrected sinus node recovery time (greater than 525 ms) in at least one study. these seven patients also had a significantly prolonged ischemic time (236 +/- 26 versus 159 +/- 68 min, p less than 0.01). in conclusion, cardiac arrhythmias, particularly ventricular tachycardia and bradyarrhythmia, occur more commonly early after orthotopic heart transplantation than has previously been reported. sinus node dysfunction due to prolonged organ ischemic time, antiarrhythmic drug use or surgical trauma, alone or in combination, may contribute to these arrhythmias.
quantitation of intrinsic drug-metabolizing capacity in human liver biopsy specimens: support for the intact-hepatocyte theory. hepatic drug metabolism is decreased in patients with severe liver disease, but it is unclear to what extent this is due to altered hepatic blood flow or reduced intrinsic metabolic capacity. in this study we quantitated in needle-biopsy specimens the intrinsic capacity of liver tissue from 67 patients with mild liver disease (n = 36), chronic active hepatitis (n = 16) and cirrhosis (n = 15) to metabolize two model compounds in vitro. hydroxylation of the low-extraction drug bufuralol resulted in the formation of 251 +/- 25 nmol 1'oh-bufuralol/gm wet wt/hr in mildly diseased liver tissue and was significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced in liver tissue exhibiting chronic active hepatitis (166 +/- 23 nmol/gm wet wt/hr) and cirrhosis (124 +/- 21 nmol/gm wet wt/hr). the formation rates of monoethylglycinexylidide, the main metabolite of the high-extraction drug lidocaine, varied widely and were not significantly different among the three groups. to relate the drug-metabolizing capacity to the hepatocyte content of liver tissue, morphometrical study was performed in the biopsy pieces originally submitted. the metabolic activity of each biopsy piece was then related to the fractional volume of hepatocytes it was calculated to contain. in mildly diseased liver tissue 355 +/- 35 nmol 1'oh-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 12.4 +/- 1.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr- and in cirrhotic liver tissue 306 +/- 49 nmol 1'oh-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 15.3 +/- 3.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr--were formed, respectively, and these differences were not significant.
carotid artery resection and replacement in patients with head and neck malignant tumors. tumor involvement of the carotid artery with head and neck cancers may be present either simultaneously with the primary lesion or more often appears at a later date following resection of the primary tumor. management of the secondary tumor consists of its resection together with the involved carotid artery with or without carotid artery reconstruction. the authors are convinced that the best chance for cure of patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell cancers involving the carotid artery is radical extirpation with ablative surgery in the form of en block resection of the primary lesion, the secondary tumor, and the involved carotid artery followed by immediate revascularization. this bold approach was carried out in two male patients, 48 and 61 years of age, followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy in one and radiation therapy alone in the other, with excellent results. dermal grafts were placed over the entire length of the arterialized veins to protect them from radiation injury. based on this limited experience and excellent results, we recommend this one-stage surgical ablative procedure in well selected patients. however, cooperation between the ent and vascular surgeons, strict adherence to the principles and techniques of vascular surgery, and coverage of the arterialized vein with a dermal graft is absolutely essential.
the treatment of chondrodermatitis nodularis with cartilage removal alone. fifty-eight patients with chondrodermatitis nodularis on the antihelix in 24 ears (16 women and eight men) and the helix in 40 ears (six women and 34 men) were studied. twelve ears responded to intralesional steroid therapy. under local anesthetic, 46 operations were performed to remove cartilage without skin excision. on the helix, a longitudinal incision was made; on the antihelix, a flap was raised and the underlying cartilage was excised, taking care to leave no rough cartilage edges. follow-up (mean, 16 months; range, 4.5 to 34 months) showed that 10 of 17 antihelix lesions and 24 of 29 helix lesions healed completely with excellent cosmetic results. recurrences, requiring further treatment, occurred at cartilage-excision margins in seven ears, and further cartilage excision alone was successful in four ears. this study demonstrates that only cartilage needs to be removed in the surgical treatment of chondrodermatitis nodularis.
the influence of the calcium antagonist nimodipine and induced hypertension on the behavior of the cerebral pial arteries, the blood-brain barrier, cerebral edema, and cerebral infarction in cats with one-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. thirty anesthetized cats were randomly assigned to one of three groups of 10 cats each: nimodipine treatment, nimodipine treatment combined with induced hypertension, or a control group. the behavior of the cerebral pial arteries was measured by means of microscopic observation through a cranial window. the middle cerebral artery of each cat was clipped for 1 hour via the transorbital approach. five hours after circulation was reestablished in the middle cerebral artery, evans blue dye was injected intravenously: 30 minutes later, the animal was killed. administration of nimodipine or saline in the treated or control group was started 5 minutes before the middle cerebral artery was clipped and maintained until the end of the experiment. induced hypertension was produced by administration of dopamine during the occlusion. damage to the blood-brain barrier (bbb) was judged by extravasation of evans blue dye. cerebral edema and infarction were evaluated from histological findings. they were most prominent in the control group: the extent of hemisphere affected was as follows (mean +/- standard error): extravasation, 40.5 +/- 8.8%; edema, 43.2 +/- 5.7%; infarction, 35.5 +/- 9.6%. on the other hand, the extravasation of evans blue dye and cerebral edema were significantly more extensive in the group treated with nimodipine and induced hypertension (extravasation, 28.2 +/- 9.6% of the hemisphere; edema, 30.3 +/- 7.1%) than in the group treated with nimodipine alone (extravasation, 18.5 +/- 8.7% of the hemisphere; edema, 19.4 +/- 6.3%), but the infarction size was similar in both groups (16.6 +/- 4.9% of the hemisphere in the former; 17.0 +/- 6.2 in the latter).
heffalumps, jagulars, and cheshire cats. a commentary on cytokeratins and soft tissue sarcomas. historically, antibodies to cytokeratin intermediate filaments have been models of target specificity. in most diagnostic settings, the utility of these antibodies was unquestioned; reactivity for cytokeratin was dogmatically equated with epithelial differentiation. recently, however, the diagnostic importance of these antibodies has been challenged, prompted by the demonstration of cytokeratin reactivity in a variety of "nonepithelial" neoplasms. in this review, the evolving literature on this topic is explored, and the practical implications of these findings are discussed.
the distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb. to determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured. four groups of patients were studied: 22 control subjects, 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis, 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis. in the testing posture (seated), patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side. gravitational torques were included in the measurements. however, proximal muscles (acting at hip and knee) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles (acting at ankle and hallux). at any particular joint, physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects. as in the upper limb (colebatch and gandevia, 1989), the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects, although no muscle groups were especially affected.
role of percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy in suspected intrathoracic malignancy. percutaneous fine-needle aspiration (pfna) biopsy is an accepted technique for the diagnosis of suspected intrathoracic malignancy, but the appropriate indications for its use have not been clearly defined. to help establish guidelines, we performed a retrospective analysis of 188 patients who underwent pfna biopsy for suspected intrathoracic malignancy. biopsy led to a diagnosis in 72% (135/188) of the patients, but in 27% (50/188) samples were inadequate for cytological diagnosis, and in 2% (3/188) samples were adequate but failed to yield a diagnosis. fifty-three patients underwent surgical intervention, thus allowing histological confirmation of the cytological diagnosis. in patients with a diagnosis from pfna biopsy, operation confirmed malignancy in 97% (37/38) and a specific cell type in 79% (30/38). in patients without a diagnosis after biopsy, a malignancy was found in 73% (11/15) at the time of operation. this suggests a high rate of accuracy when pfna biopsy provides a diagnosis. however, it also illustrates that a substantial percentage of pfna biopsy attempts fail to yield a diagnosis in patients ultimately found to have malignancies. this implies that pfna biopsy might best be reserved for patients who are not surgical candidates.
delayed brachial artery occlusion owing to a dog bite of the upper extremity. we report a case of delayed presentation of vascular injury from a superficial dog bite of the upper extremity in a five-year-old male. this example of a significant arterial injury, in the setting of seemingly minor trauma, is the first known report of blunt arterial trauma owing to a dog bite in any age group. blunt arterial trauma in children is rare unless associated with fractures, dislocations, or massive crush injuries. additionally, persistent pulses following arterial occlusion are rare and can potentially lead to misdiagnosis of a serious arterial injury. a brief review of pediatric blunt vascular injuries is presented with implications for diagnosis and management of such cases.
effect of amiodarone on erythrocyte shape and membrane properties. 1. amiodarone is a potent anti-arrhythmic drug with lipophilic properties. the intercalation of such a drug into the membrane of erythrocytes may alter their shape and have an impact on the flow properties of blood. we therefore studied the influence of amiodarone on erythrocyte shape and deformability in vitro and in vivo. 2. incubation in vitro with increasing amiodarone concentrations led to a progressive stomatocytic shape transformation and a decreased deformability of the erythrocytes. 3. amiodarone treatment in eight patients did not affect erythrocyte morphology and deformability. however, an increase in the membrane cholesterol/phospholipid ratio was found. 4. the stomatocytic shape transformation of erythrocytes in vitro indicates that amiodarone intercalates in the inner hemileaflet of the lipid bilayer leading to membrane internalization. these results shed light on the interaction of amiodarone with biomembranes.
comparison of frequency of late potentials in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiomyopathy with advanced congestive heart failure and their usefulness in predicting sudden death. signal-averaged electrocardiograms were obtained in 62 consecutive patients with advanced congestive heart failure (chf) undergoing evaluation for possible heart transplantation to determine if late potentials: (1) provide unique information compared to assessment of ventricular ectopic activity on ambulatory electrocardiogram, and (2) identify a subgroup of chf patients with higher sudden death risk. patients with a history of cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachycardia were excluded. chf was due to old myocardial infarction in 40 patients and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in 22 patients. late potentials were present in 16 of 40 (40%) patients with old infarction but in only 3 of 22 (14%) patients with nonischemic chf (p = 0.03). twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were obtained in 34 patients (55%). total ventricular ectopic activity and repetitive forms of ectopy were similar in patients with and without late potentials. nine patients died suddenly, 9 had nonsudden death, 15 underwent heart transplantation and 29 were alive and well after a mean follow-up of 218 +/- 154 days. at 1 year, the actuarial risk of death was 37% and of sudden death was 20%. sudden death risk was 12% in patients with late potentials versus 21% in those without (p = 0.73). thus, the incidence of the arrhythmia substrate producing late potentials depends on the chf etiology. the signal-averaged electrocardiogram and ambulatory electrocardiogram provide independent information for possible risk assessment in chf. however, late potentials are poor predictors of sudden death risk when chf is advanced, possibly due to the heterogeneity of causes of sudden death--ventricular tachycardia being only 1 of many possible mechanisms.
premature menopause because of an inherited deletion in the long arm of the x-chromosome. a family is described in which both a mother and an infertile daughter had premature menopause at the ages of 31 and 28 years, respectively. initially, an extensive investigation revealed no apparent cause for their conditions. however, when cytogenetic analysis in the daughter was performed, a terminal deletion in the long arm of one of the x-chromosomes was found. the karyotype was: 46,xdel(x),(q25-qter). chromosomal investigation in the mother showed an identical deletion. the karyotype of the patient's 35-year-old sister is normal. she has a normal menstrual cycle and two normal children. the presence of such familial cases suggests that chromosomal investigation should be considered in young women with oligomenorrhea, especially those whose mothers have experienced a premature menopause.
shunt surgery for hydrocephalus in tuberculous meningitis: a long-term follow-up study. hydrocephalus is a common complication of tuberculous meningitis. case studies of 114 patients with tuberculous meningitis and hydrocephalus, who underwent shunt surgery between july, 1975, and june, 1986, were reviewed to evaluate the long-term outcome and to outline a management protocol for these patients based on the results. seven factors were studied in each case: 1) age at admission; 2) grade on admission (i to iv, classified by the authors; grade i being the best and grade iv being the worst); 3) duration of alteration of sensorium; 4) cerebrospinal fluid (csf) cell content at initial examination; 5) csf protein levels at initial examination; 6) number of shunt revisions required; and 7) the necessity for bilateral shunts. during a long-term follow-up period ranging from 6 months to 13 years (mean 45.6 months), the mortality rate was 20% for patients in grade i; 34.7% for patients in grade ii; 51.9% for patients in grade iii; and 100% for patients in grade iv. only the grade at the time of admission was found to be statistically significant in determining final outcome (p less than 0.001). based on these results, the authors advocate early shunt surgery for grade i and ii patients. for patients in grade iii, surgery may be performed either if external ventricular drainage causes an improvement in sensorium or without selection. all patients in grade iv should undergo external ventricular drainage and only those who show a significant change in their neurological status within 24 to 48 hours of drainage, should have shunt surgery.
genetic diagnosis of lynch syndrome ii in an extended colorectal cancer-prone family. knowledge of colon cancer genetics, with particular attention to precision in hereditary cancer syndrome diagnosis, can often enable highly targeted surveillance and management strategies for patients at high genetic risk. unfortunately, the patient's family history of cancer is often given minimal attention, and knowledge of hereditary cancer syndromes is frequently limited. indeed, many physicians still consider familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) as the only genetic risk factor for colorectal cancer. this concern with fap was noted in a colorectal cancer-prone kindred which for decades had been thought to manifest that syndrome. however, after meticulous genetic, medical, and pathologic studies, the cardinal phenotypic characteristics of lynch syndrome ii were observed. the potential for cancer control in current and future generations of families like this one clearly mandates the need for computerized registries which could transmit current information about hereditary colon cancer syndrome diagnosis, surveillance, and management.
underestimation of treatment effect in crossover trials. in crossover trials each subject serves as his own control. for the study of cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and angina pectoria, properly designed crossover studies are preferred to parallel studies. there is a considerable between-subject variability of symptoms in some of these conditions. bias due to this is eliminated by the use of a crossover design. however, a problem is the so-called treatment-by-period interaction. the present study analyzes the potential influences of this on the outcome of the trial. physical carryover effect, defined as a physical effect of the first treatment period carrying on into the second, tends to minimize differences between two consecutive treatment periods. so does the frustrating experience of an inactive agent in the first treatment period. outside influences such as the change of the seasons may affect lengthy crossover trials in a similar way. the author concludes that the treatment effect in a crossover trial tends to be underestimated. the current concept that reports of clinical trials are generally biased toward an exaggeration of treatment effects does not seem to apply to crossover trials.
aaem case report #1: ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. a patient with bilateral cubital syndrome complicated by anomalous innervation is presented. the electrodiagnostic approach to patients with this neuropathy is reviewed emphasizing new developments. the interpretation of the findings in this patient centers around issues of pathophysiology and methodology.
intracranial tumor in infants: characteristics, management, and outcome of a contemporary series. since 1980, 22 patients less than 2 years of age have been treated for intracranial tumors at our institution. the most common presentation was elevated intracranial pressure associated with ventriculomegaly (73%). the diagnosis was made by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging and confirmed surgically in every case. in 68% of cases, the tumor involved midline structures in the central nervous system. tumors were infratentorial in 29% of patients less than 1 year of age and in 60% of those more than 1 year of age. most tumors were either primitive neuroectodermal tumors (41%, 7 of 9 located in midline posterior fossa structures) or astrocytomas (27%, 5 of 6 located in the hypothalamus, chiasm, or optic nerve). twenty patients had gross or subtotal tumor resection. surgical mortality and neurological morbidity were 10% and 5%, respectively. of 5 patients who underwent a second operation for tumor recurrence, 3 demonstrated a change in the pathological features of the tumor from those of the original diagnosis. of 10 surgical survivors with malignant tumors, 8 received chemotherapy and 5 radiation therapy. radiation was not administered before 1 year of age. the overall 1-year survival was 70%, and 2-year survival was 58%. two-year survival for benign and malignant tumors was not significantly different. we think that the interdisciplinary efforts directed toward the treatment of these tumors has improved survival and that all children should be offered entry to a research protocol and aggressive treatment.
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients. seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations; 34 (48.6%) aspirated. patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes, abnormal cough, abnormal gag, and dysphonia. however, patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough, an abnormal gag reflex, or both. the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information (ie, presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs).
prognostic factors in the treatment of alopecia areata with diphenylcyclopropenone. one hundred thirty-nine patients with alopecia areata were treated with diphenylcyclopropenone. before treatment, 85 patients had subtotal or total hair loss (greater than 90% bald area) and in the remaining patients scalp involvement was between 40% and 90%. the following three factors were found to be of prognostic significance: type of alopecia areata as documented before treatment, duration of the disease before therapy, and presence of nail changes. other factors such as age at onset, sex, presence of atopic features, the extent of variation in the range of diphenylcyclopropenone concentrations during treatment, and sleep disturbances caused by pruritus did not influence the prognosis significantly.
characterization of a large deletion associated with a polymorphic block of repeated dinucleotides in the type iii procollagen gene (col3a1) of a patient with ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv. ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv (eds iv) is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by extreme fragility of skin, blood vessels, intestine, gravid uterus, and lungs. the phenotype is accounted for by mutations affecting the integrity and/or synthesis of the precursor procollagen molecules of type iii collagen. in this article, we report the elucidation of the molecular defect in an eds iv patient whose type iii collagen was previously found to be structurally abnormal. we utilized pcr in a two-step process involving first the localization of the mutation in the mrna and then the characterization of the defect in the gene. the results established the patient's heterozygosity for a genomic deletion of about 7.5 kb which eliminates 1,026 nucleotides of coding sequences in the message. the mutation arose as a result of an exon-to-intron recombination. the deleted segment extends from the 13th nucleotide of exon 9 to within a dna sequence of intron 24, which is composed of a series of dinucleotide repeats. using pcr, we tested the polymorphic nature of this dna element on several unrelated individuals. analysis of amplified genomic products of 45 chromosomes recognized at least four distinct allelic forms that display frequencies ranging from 5% to 61%. mendelian segregation of three of the four alleles was established by the same method in a 3-generation family.
cheilitis granulomatosa: report of six cases and review of the literature. six cases of cheilitis granulomatosa, a rare inflammatory disorder of unknown origin, are reported. the condition produces nontender, persistent swelling of one or both lips and affects primarily young adults. histologically, nonnecrotizing granulomatous inflammation is seen. the clinical findings and results of therapy in these six cases are presented. one patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulfate (plaquenil) that stabilized the process. one of our patients had vesicular-appearing lesions. microscopic examination showed the lesions to be dilated superficial lymphatic channels, a finding that to our knowledge has not been previously described.
stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using a multimodal image analysis system. technical note. a methodology has been developed for stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using an image-analysis system that simultaneously displays different structural and functional images of the brain. the validity and accuracy of this system were established with phantom studies. surgical planning and electrode implantation are guided by stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging, digital subtraction angiography, and position emission tomography. this methodology provides the spatiotemporal relationship of cerebral structure and function necessary to identify seizure onset and propagation in human limbic system epilepsy.
does indomethacin alter the hemodynamic response to magnesium sulfate infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes? the purpose of this study was to determine whether indomethacin alters the maternal and fetal hemodynamic response to magnesium sulfate (mgso4) infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes. we studied seven chronically instrumented animals between 0.8 and 0.9 of timed gestation. the experimental sequence included: 1) at time 0, indomethacin, 2 mg/kg, or vehicle only intravenously (iv) over 5 minutes; 2) at 60 minutes, mgso4 4 g iv over 5 minutes; 3) at 65 minutes, mgso4 infusion at 4 g/hour; 4) at 150 minutes, maternal hemorrhage, 20 ml/kg, over 60 minutes; and 5) at 215 minutes, reinfusion of maternal blood over 60 minutes. each animal was studied with and without indomethacin. indomethacin, but not vehicle only, transiently increased maternal and fetal mean arterial pressure (map), decreased maternal and fetal heart rate, and decreased maternal cardiac output. magnesium sulfate significantly decreased uterine vascular resistance and increased uterine blood flow both with and without indomethacin. hemorrhage significantly decreased maternal map, heart rate, cardiac output, and uterine blood flow in both groups. the magnitude of each change was similar between the groups. for example, at the end of hemorrhage, maternal map was 36 +/- 7% below baseline (p = .0001) with indomethacin and 41 +/- 2% below baseline (p = .0001) in the vehicle-only group (p = not significant between groups). hemorrhage significantly decreased fetal heart rate, ph, and po2, and increased fetal map and pco2 in both groups. we conclude that indomethacin did not alter the maternal or fetal hemodynamic response to mgso4 infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes.
intracerebral solitary plasmacytoma. we report a rare occurrence of intraparenchymal plasmacytoma and review the literature. the clonal nature of the neoplasm is demonstrated by immunohistochemical and molecular techniques. the importance of the latter techniques in ruling out other pathological entities is stressed.
excitatory amino acids in the developing brain: ontogeny, plasticity, and excitotoxicity. besides their role as neurotransmitters, excitatory amino acids (eaas) in the developing brain are crucially involved in plasticity and excitotoxicity which are modified by their distinct ontogeny. along with incomplete neuritogenesis and synaptogenesis, presynaptic markers of the eaa system are immature in the developing brain; however, postsynaptic eaa system activities, particularly of the n-methyl-d-aspartate and quisqualate receptors, are transiently enhanced early in life. this transient enhancement is presumably beneficial to the immature brain because physiologic activation of the eaa system plays a critical role in plasticity of early learning and morphogenesis. at the same time, this transient hypersensitivity renders the immature brain vulnerable to pathologic excitation of the eaa system (excitotoxicity) as observed during neonatal hypoxia-ischemia.
alarm reaction and serum k+ in hypertensive patients. the effect of serum k+ of the alarm reaction induced by the participation to an experimental noninvasive study was evaluated in 35 subjects with borderline hypertension and in 18 essential hypertensives. a group of 44 inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling served as a control. serum k+, blood pressure and heart rate were measured before (casual) and after (baseline) 20 min of rest in the recumbent position. baseline serum k+ values were significantly higher than casual values in patients participating to the experimental protocol while no change was observed in inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling. the increase in serum k+ induced by relaxation was significantly related to heart rate decrease (r = 0.73). after relaxation 75% of patients had an increase in serum k+ with a change greater than 10% in about 35% of patients. in a subgroup of patients who repeated the same test three times, the alarm reaction was still evident and not reproducible within each patient. these data suggest that when potassium levels are measured in outpatients undergoing diagnostic or experimental procedures falsely reduced levels can be found in a large proportion of subjects.
acute myocardial infarction and chest pain syndromes after cocaine use. seventy patients hospitalized with chest pain after cocaine use were retrospectively evaluated to define the risk and clinical course of acute myocardial infarction (ami). ami developed in 22 patients (31%) and transient myocardial ischemia was seen in an additional 9 patients (13%). coronary risk factors did not distinguish those who developed ami from those who did not. the presenting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 20 of 22 patients who evolved ami and in 19 of 48 of those who did not. creatine kinase levels were elevated in 75% of the patients, including 65% of those who did not develop ami, but creatine kinase-mb elevations were only observed in the ami group. the route of cocaine administration did not predict ami and there was no predilection for a particular coronary vascular bed. the length of time between drug use and onset of ami pain was often quite prolonged (median interval, 18 vs 1 hour in the non-ami group). eight of the patients with ami underwent cardiac catheterization and 4 had significant coronary narrowing.
a rheolytic system for percutaneous coronary and peripheral plaque removal. a method for plaque dissolution has been identified that percutaneously delivers a pulsatile high-velocity stream of saline to the site of an atheromatous lesion within a coronary or peripheral artery. in vitro evaluation and in vivo canine and porcine testing were performed using this 'rheolytic' system to determine its feasibility in ablating calcified plaque and soft thrombotic tissue. a prototype rheolytic guidewire capable of providing 30,000 psi of internal pressure was designed to fit within the guidewire lumen of a standard percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty catheter. an additional over-the-wire rheolytic catheter was fabricated to follow a standard .014-inch guidewire. the rheolytic devices were tested in vitro with simulated atheromatous and thrombotic lesions to evaluate the size and quantity of the particulate effluent. the particulate was then sterilized, mixed with saline, and introduced percutaneously into the animal kidney and heart for evaluation. the in vitro studies demonstrated that the rheolytic catheter and guidewire were able to follow both a coronary and femoral arterial model and successfully ablate the simulated lesions. the particle size for osseous, muscular, and cartilagenous tissue ranged from 2 to 6 micrometers; for fresh human plaque the particles ranged from 2 to 15 micrometers. injection of cartilagenous and plaque particles into the animal model caused very slight regions of necrosis but no clinical sequelae. applications of the rheolytic devices to the animal femoral artery demonstrated that both devices could ablate and cross calified or soft thrombosed lesions without damage to the vessel wall; the rheolytic catheter provided a debulking of the plaque.
epidemiology of heart failure. analysis of 34 years of follow-up of framingham study data provides clinically relevant insights into the prevalence, incidence, secular trends, prognosis, and modifiable risk factors for the occurrence of heart failure in a general population sample. heart failure was found to be highly prevalent, affecting about 1% of persons in their 50s and rising progressively with age to afflict 10% of persons in their 80s. the annual incidence also increased with age, from about 0.2% in persons 45 to 54 years, to 4.0% in men 85 to 94 years, with the incidence approximately doubling with each decade of age. women lagged slightly behind men in incidence at all ages. male predominance was because of a higher rate of coronary heart disease, which confers a fourfold increased risk of heart failure. heart failure, once manifest, was highly lethal, with 37% of men and 33% of women dying within 2 years of diagnosis. the 6-year mortality rate was 82% for men and 67% for women, which corresponded to a death rate fourfold to eightfold greater than that of the general population of the same age. sudden death was a common mode of exitus and accounted for 28% of the cardiovascular deaths in men and 14% in women with heart failure. hypertension and coronary disease were the predominant causes for heart failure and accounted for more than 80% of all clinical events. factors reflecting deteriorating cardiac function were associated with a substantial increase in risk of overt heart failure. these include low vital capacity, sinus tachycardia, and ecg evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy.
ubiquitin immunoreactivity in kuru plaques in creutzfeldt-jakob disease. cerebellar kuru plaques in 2 cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease were studied immunohistochemically. similar to cerebellar senile plaques in alzheimer's disease, many kuru plaques contained ubiquitin-positive, tau-negative small granular elements, presumably representing dystrophic neurites. our results suggest that similar mechanisms are involved in neuritic changes in cerebellar plaques in creutzfeldt-jakob and alzheimer's diseases despite differences of amyloid proteins in the plaques.
prognostic value of c-myc proto-oncogene overexpression in early invasive carcinoma of the cervix. the prognostic effect of c-myc oncogene overexpression was assessed in a multivariate analysis of 93 patients with invasive carcinoma of the cervix, stage ib, iia, and iib proximal. the treatment was based on the association of brachytherapy-colpohysterectomy and lymphadenectomy. analysis of c-myc gene expression was done using northern and slot blot hybridization techniques. overexpression of c-myc (ie, levels at least three times the mean observed in normal tissues) was present in 33% of the tumors. the proportion of carcinomas with c-myc overexpression significantly increased with the size of the primary tumor (p = .04). no relationship was found between c-myc overexpression and the other clinical and histologic parameters, including the nodal status. the relative risk of relapse (overall, pelvic failure, distant metastases) was analyzed in a cox's proportional hazards model. three factors were significantly related to the risk of overall relapse when the multivariate analysis was performed, namely, the tumor size, the nodal status, and c-myc expression. a combination of c-myc expression and the nodal status provided a very accurate indication of the risk of relapse. indeed, patients with negative nodes had a 3-year disease-free survival rate of 93% (95% confidence interval [cl], 79% to 98%) when c-myc was expressed at a normal level, whereas this rate was only 51% (95% cl, 26% to 63%) when c-myc was overexpressed (log-rank test, p = .02). in addition, in the subgroup of patients with positive nodes, this rate was 44% (95% cl, 25% to 77%) and 15% (95% cl, 4% to 49%) when c-myc gene was expressed at normal level, or overexpressed, respectively. finally, c-myc gene overexpression was, in the multivariate analysis, the first factor selected by the model regarding the risk of distant metastases.
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity. autologous lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 (ril-2) were administered intraperitoneally (ip) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space. ten patients had ovarian cancer, 12 had colorectal cancer, and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma. all ovarian cancer patients, three of twelve colorectal cancer patients, and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy. patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously (iv) for 3 days, and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days. lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter (davol, inc, cranston, ri) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours. all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy. toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distension, diarrhea, oliguria, fluid retention, thrombocytopenia, and minor elevations of liver function tests; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2. one patient had a grand mal seizure, and one suffered a colonic perforation; these were felt to be treatment-related. ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients. two of 10 (20%) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 (42%) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy- or laparotomy-documented partial responses. we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients, resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy. further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results.
carcinoma of the gallbladder. gallbladder cancer remains difficult to diagnose preoperatively. however, recent work suggests that ultrasound may be effective. gallbladder cancer remains highly lethal despite aggressive therapy. extension of the disease beyond the mucosa predicts a poor chance of long-term survival.
microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale: a difficult antemortem diagnosis [published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 apr;66(4):439] microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose. the most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea, and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram. another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities. in general, pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli, but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans. the diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology, a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography. herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death. these cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis.
obstructed total anomalous pulmonary venous return. toward neutralization of a major risk factor. among 57 neonates undergoing repair of total anomalous pulmonary venous return with severe pulmonary venous obstruction from 1980 through 1989, date of operation (1980 to 1984), preoperative hemodynamic instability, and failure to monitor pulmonary artery pressure postoperatively were risk factors for death. thus, among the 30 patients having repair between 1985 and 1989, the 55-month survival rate including hospital deaths was 83%.
the association between type a behavior and change in coronary risk factors among young adults. the association of type a/b behavior pattern and changes in blood pressure, total serum cholesterol, serum triglyceride, body mass, and smoking was estimated in a cohort of 375 young black and white men and women from a rural county in central kentucky between 1978-79 and 1985-88. type a participants experienced significant increases in systolic (2.90 +/- 1.29 mmhg) and diastolic (3.80 +/- 1.17 mmhg) blood pressure and in cigarette smoking (3.26 +/- 0.89 cigarettes per day) over the eight-year follow-up period, but type b participants experienced no change. type a and b individuals showed similar changes in total serum cholesterol, serum triglyceride, or body mass. differences between behavioral types in blood pressure were present for women but not men, and for blacks but not for whites. these findings suggest a possible significance of the type a pattern for the development of cardiovascular risk of young adults.
is liver transplantation justified for the treatment of hepatic malignancies? twenty-eight patients received orthotopic liver transplants for malignant disease between february 1, 1984, and december 31, 1989. preoperative diagnoses included hepatocellular carcinoma (n = 16), cholangiocarcinoma (n = 3), other primary hepatic tumors (n = 6), and metastatic diseases to the liver (n = 3). overall actuarial survivals at 6 months, 1 year, and 5 years were 67.3%, 51%, and 31%, respectively. long-term survival longer than 5 years was achieved in 3 patients. the recurrence rate in patients surviving longer than 3 months is 48% (median, 7 months). hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma had the poorest survival and highest recurrence rates. specific prognostic factors correlating with survival or recurrence could not be elucidated. these results indicate that orthotopic liver transplants can provide long-term cure and palliation for malignant disease; however, patient selection is extremely important in predicting outcome.
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin. a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described. the principal presenting symptoms are malaise, fever, and weight loss, although a wide variety of complaints are documented. pulmonary involvement is uncommon. the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate. there is no evidence of an associated arteritis. the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs, particularly if the kidneys are involved, the prognosis is relatively good. we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin. the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed. the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition. it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis. first, it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients. secondly, it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise.
removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths by the hysteroscopic resectoscope. fifty-three patients underwent 55 procedures with a resectoscope for the removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths. the presenting complaint was menorrhagia, menometrorrhagia, or heavy postmenopausal bleeding in 38 patients; excessive menses plus infertility in 13 patients; and infertility alone in two patients. forty-three patients had pedunculated or sessile submucous myomas and ten patients had large endometrial polyps. the long-term results are based on 45 patients followed for longer than 1 year. excessive bleeding was controlled in 40 of the 43 women (93%). failure to control abnormal bleeding was apparent within the first year. seven of the 12 infertility patients (58%) delivered live-born infants. five patients have undergone subsequent hysterectomies (9%). two patients had repeat resectoscopic removal of myomas and two had subsequent non-resectoscope myomectomies. no major complications were encountered.
apneic oxygenation in apnea tests for brain death. a controlled trial. we performed a prospective controlled study of apneic oxygenation on 15 patients undergoing apnea tests for brain death. all patients were preoxygenated with 100% oxygen at existing respirator settings. during the 10-minute apnea tests, nine patients were given continuous apneic oxygenation by tracheal cannula. the other six patients had tracheal tubes open to room air. the patients given apneic oxygenation had little or no hypoxia by the end of the test. the patients given room air during the test became hypoxic. many neurologists perform apnea tests with no oxygenation or with preoxygenation alone. this is the first prospective controlled study (to our knowledge) of apneic oxygenation; it shows that preoxygenation alone does not prevent hypoxia during apnea tests for brain death. we recommend that all apnea tests be performed with apneic oxygenation.
therapeutic dilemmas associated with antenatally detected ovarian cysts. fifteen instances of ovarian cysts detected antenatally are reported. seven cysts more than 5 centimeters in diameter were treated surgically because of clinical signs, such as palpable abdominal mass, vomiting and abdominal distension. seven cysts less than 5 centimeters in diameter, and one cyst more than 5 centimeters in diameter began to regress spontaneously within six months after birth. because the pathophysiologic nature of neonatal ovarian cysts has not been elucidated and because the borderline between physiologic and pathologic factors is still unclear, we propose a more conservative approach in the management of neonatal ovarian cysts to avoid unnecessary operations.
hyposensitivity to vasopressin in patients with hepatitis b-related cirrhosis during acute variceal hemorrhage. it has been suggested that vasopressin given during hemorrhage may be less effective than when given during a stable state in a portal-hypertensive rat model. this study was designed to evaluate the hemodynamic response to vasopressin infusion in 25 hbsag-positive cirrhotic patients. nine patients had active variceal hemorrhage before vasopressin infusion, and the other 16 patients were in a stable condition at the time of infusion. the two groups of patients were similar in baseline values except that a higher heart rate was found in patients with hemorrhage (96 +/- 20 vs. 73 +/- 10 beats/min, mean +/- s.d., p less than 0.01). thirty minutes after vasopressin infusion (0.66 units/min), hepatic venous pressure gradient significantly decreased in both bleeding and stable patients (from 21 +/- 9 to 18 +/- 9 mm hg, p less than 0.05; and from 18 +/- 4 to 8 +/- 3 mm hg, p less than 0.0001, respectively). however, the decrease of hepatic venous pressure gradient was less obvious in bleeding patients as compared with stable patients (4 +/- 3 vs. 9 +/- 2 mm hg, p less than 0.0001). a significant reduction of hepatic venous pressure gradient after vasopressin infusion was found in five bleeding patients without shock (from a median of 16 mm hg [range = 12 to 26] to 11 mm hg [range = 6 to 18], p less than 0.05), but not in four bleeding patients with shock (from 28 [range = 15 to 36] to 25 [range = 18 to 33] mm hg, p greater than 0.05).
seismic communication in a blind subterranean mammal: a major somatosensory mechanism in adaptive evolution underground. seismic communication, through low-frequency and patterned substrate-borne vibrations that are generated by head thumping, and which travel long distances underground, is important in the nonvisual communication of subterranean mole rats of the spalax ehrenbergi superspecies (2n = 52, 54, 58, and 60) in israel. this importance pertains both intraspecifically in adaptation and interspecifically in speciation. neurophysiologic, behavioral, and anatomic findings in this study suggest that the mechanism of long-distance seismic communication is basically somatosensory and is independent of the auditory mechanism. seismic communication thus appears to be a channel of communication important in the evolution of subterranean mammals that display major adaptation to life underground.
age effects susceptibility to pulmonary barotrauma in rabbits. objective: we studied the effect of age on the development of pulmonary barotrauma after mechanical ventilation with high peak inspiratory pressures (pip). design: young (4 to 6 wk old) and adult rabbits were ventilated for 1 hr at pips of 15, 30, and either 45 cm h2o (young group) or 55 cm h2o (adult group). measurements and main results: the pulmonary capillary filtration coefficient (kf,c) was measured in an isolated lung perfusion system after the animals were killed. in young rabbits, kf,c increased significantly from the 15 cm h2o pip value in both the 30 cm h2o (55%) and 45 cm h2o (507%) pip groups, whereas kf,c was increased in adult rabbits only in the 55 cm h2o (113%) pip group. kf,c was significantly (p less than .01) higher in young rabbits than in adult rabbits after ventilation, with every level of pip being 91% higher at 15 cm h2o pip and 440% higher at 45 to 55 cm h2o pip. also, a greater incidence of pneumothorax and airleaks was observed in the young rabbits. pressure-volume loops demonstrated that the young rabbits had more compliant lungs and chest wall than adult rabbits. conclusions: these data indicate that the lungs of young rabbits had a higher baseline microvascular permeability and were more susceptible to the development of ventilator-induced increased microvascular permeability. more compliant lungs and chest wall and the larger distending volumes attained at each peak airway pressure appear to be the mechanisms.
pulmonary hypertension five years after left pneumonectomy for adenoid cystic carcinoma. we report the findings in a patient with shortness of breath due to pulmonary hypertension five years after left pneumonectomy. mediastinal recurrence of an incompletely resected and slowly growing adenoid cystic carcinoma of the left main bronchus had encased the right main pulmonary artery.
effect of bay u 3405, a new thromboxane antagonist, on collagen-induced thromboembolism in rabbits. bay u 3405 [(3r)-3-(4-fluorophenylsulfonamido)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-9- carbazolepropanoic acid] potently inhibits platelet aggregation, thromboxane a2-induced contraction of smooth muscles, and coronary artery thrombosis. we have previously demonstrated inhibition of arachidonic acid-induced sudden death by bay u 3405. the purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of bay u 3405 on thromboembolism provoked by collagen. collagen fibrils dissolved in an isotonic glucose solution were injected into a marginal ear vein of anesthetized rabbits. sudden death occurred within a few minutes due to elevated thromboxane a2 levels causing intravascular platelet aggregation and myocardial ischemia. in the vehicle-treated group, 100% of the animals died. one of the most prominent parameters was the massive fall in blood pressure. all animals pretreated with 10 mg/kg orally bay u 3405 survived, showing only a transient hypotensive effect. tracings of the electrocardiogram and heart rate were unchanged. bay u 3405 will therefore be useful to elucidate the role of thromboxane a2 in various cardiovascular and respiratory diseases.
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct: a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain. a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct. celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst. internal drainage was curative.
recurrent herpes gestationis with postpartum flare: a case report. a case of herpes gestationis recurring in each pregnancy, with a postpartum flare-up in the last pregnancy, is described. the diagnosis was confirmed by skin biopsy. the first pregnancy ended in a term stillbirth, but there were favorable outcomes in four subsequent pregnancies. histopathologic examination of the placentas of the last three pregnancies revealed varying grades of villositis. symptoms improved with oral corticosteroids.
clinical efficacy of oral-transdermal clonidine combinations during the perioperative period. in an attempt to maintain stable levels of an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist throughout the perioperative period, two different oral-transdermal clonidine dosage regimens were administered according to a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients undergoing abdominal surgery. we determined the clinical efficacy of a high- and a low-dose clonidine regimen on sedation, hemodynamic parameters, anesthesia, and analgesia. the low-dose clonidine group of patients (n = 14) received a 7-cm2 clonidine transdermal patch (catapres-tts #2), which was supplemented with oral doses of clonidine approximately 3 micrograms.kg-1 on the evening prior to surgery and on the morning of surgery. the high-dose clonidine group (n = 14) received a 10.5-cm2 clonidine transdermal patch (catapres-tts #3) with oral clonidine approximately 4.5 micrograms.kg-1 at bedtime and 6.0 micrograms.kg-1 on the morning of surgery. placebo-treated (control) patients received the same occlusive patch without active ingredient and oral placebo tablets at bedtime and on the morning of surgery. preanesthetic medication included midazolam 50 micrograms.kg-1 intramuscularly (im). anesthesia was induced with alfentanil 30 micrograms.kg-1 intravenously (iv), thiopental 3 mg.kg-1 iv, and vecuronium 0.1 mg.kg-1 iv, and was maintained with 70% nitrous oxide in oxygen and a continuous infusion of alfentanil 0.5 microgram.kg-1.min-1. isoflurane was added when the blood pressure exceeded 110% of the patient's prestudy value. for pain relief postoperatively, the patients received morphine, 1-2-mg iv boluses, via a patient-controlled analgesia pump. the low-dose clonidine patient group had mean plasma clonidine concentrations that varied from 1.47 ng.ml-1 (preoperative) to 1.32 ng.ml-1 (postoperative day 2).
richner-hanhart's syndrome. electron microscopic study of the skin lesion. the plantar hyperkeratotic skin lesion in a case of richner-hanhart's syndrome was investigated using ultrastructural examination. light microscopic examination showed remarkable hyperkeratosis and some aberrant keratinocytes with multiple nuclei. on ultrastructural examination, some abnormal structures were seen in the affected keratinocytes: aggregations of tonofilaments and intracytoplasmic inclusions. the inclusions were needle shaped and were considered to be "crystal ghosts," presumably of tyrosine. the formation of tyrosine crystalline inclusions seems to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of the cutaneous lesions in richner-hanhart's syndrome.
frequency of recovery of blastocystis hominis in clinical practice. we examined the frequency of isolation of blastocystis hominis from stools of patients seen in an indigent-care teaching hospital. over a 2-year period, 2,744 stool specimens were examined prospectively. b. hominis was found in 262 stools (9.5% of all stool specimens and 53.5% of the positive specimens). clinical data were obtained from 80 patients with stools positive for b. hominis. b. hominis was the only parasite isolated in 39 of 47 (83%) of the adults, compared with 17 of 33 (52%) of the children (p = 0.006). all but 2 of 52 patients without concomitant parasitic infection or bacterial pathogens in stool had gastrointestinal symptoms (41 abdominal pain, 26 diarrhea, and 5 vomiting), but no association was seen with fever, peripheral leukocytosis, stool occult blood, fecal leukocytes, or endoscopic or radiologic evidence of colitis. therefore, b. hominis was frequently recovered from stools examined in a hospital clinical parasitology laboratory. the clinical presentations of patients in our series did not suggest that b. hominis was invasive. most patients with b. hominis probably do not require treatment since they will either have spontaneous resolution of symptoms or will be found to have an alternative explanation for their problem.
lipoprotein (a) and coronary heart disease: a prospective case-control study in a general population sample of middle aged men. objective--to examine the association between the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration and subsequent coronary heart disease. design--prospective case-control study based on a six year follow up of a general population sample of men aged 50 at baseline in 1983-4. serum samples were frozen at the time of the baseline examination and kept at -70 degrees c for six years, after which the lipoprotein (a) concentrations in the samples were measured in cases and controls. setting--city of gothenburg, sweden. subjects--26 men, from a general population sample of 776 men, who had sustained a myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease during the six years and 109 randomly selected controls from the same sample who had remained free of myocardial infarction. in neither cases nor controls was there a history of myocardial infarction at baseline. main outcome measures--proportion of myocardial infarction or deaths from coronary heart disease, or both, in relation to the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration. results--men who suffered coronary heart disease had significantly higher serum lipoprotein (a) concentrations than controls (mean difference 105 mg/l; 95% confidence interval 18 to 192 mg/l). men with the highest fifth of serum lipoprotein (a) concentrations (cut off point 365 mg/l) suffered a coronary heart disease rate which was more than twice that of men with the lowest four fifths of concentrations. logistic regression analysis showed the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration to be significantly associated with coronary heart disease independently of other risk factors. conclusion--the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration in middle aged men is an independent risk factor for subsequent myocardial infarction or death from coronary heart disease.
primary carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. effect of primary and secondary therapy on survival. the pathologic material and medical records of 76 patients with primary upper urinary tract carcinomas were reviewed to identify the role of grade and stage in predicting survival; to determine any differences in survival between ureteral and renal pelvic carcinoma; to understand the role of local therapy in low grade, low stage tumors; and to establish the usefulness of adjuvant therapies in metastatic disease. kaplan-meier survival curves with cox-mantel analysis for statistical significance revealed both grade and stage to be excellent predictors of survival. no differences in survival were noted between renal pelvic and ureteral carcinomas for equivalent stage tumors. for low grade, low stage tumors, although there was an increased risk of local recurrence with local therapy, there were no differences in survival between patients treated with local therapy or radical surgery. finally, cisplatin-based chemotherapy seemed to improve survival in patients with metastatic disease.
drop attacks with meniere's syndrome. we report the clinical features of 12 patients with drop attacks associated with meniere's syndrome. each described a sensation of being pushed, thrown, or knocked to the ground or a sudden illusion of movement of the environment that led to a fall. these episodes were not accompanied by symptoms of their typical attacks of meniere's syndrome. the drop attacks occurred early and late in the course of the disease; they were the initial manifestation in 1 patient. in the majority the episodes spontaneously remitted, although meniere's syndrome continued to progress. these attacks probably result from a sudden mechanical deformation of the otolithic membrane of the utricle or saccule due to pressure gradients within the inner ear. they are important to recognize because their prognosis is relatively benign compared to other causes of drop attacks.
the oncologic risks of skin preservation at mastectomy when combined with immediate reconstruction of the breast. most oncologic surgeons agree that removal of the nipple, the areola and any recent scar at the site of the biopsy is necessary during a mastectomy for treatment of carcinoma of the breast. there is less agreement about what should be done with the remaining uninvolved mammary skin. its preservation facilitates the performance of immediate reconstruction of the breast and can lead to improved aesthetic results, but many oncologists fear that this practice could lead to an increased incidence of local tumor recurrence. to determine if that fear was justified, 87 patients who had undergone unilateral or bilateral mastectomy with immediate reconstruction for treatment of early carcinoma of the breast were studied. preservation of uninvolved skin was used in all instances. all patients had a documented follow-up study of 12 months or more; the average follow-up time was 23.1 months. one peripheral local recurrence was observed. this 1.2 per cent rate of early local recurrence is lower than that reported from several series using modified radical mastectomy without skin preservation or immediate reconstruction, and suggests that skin preservation does not confer additional risks of local recurrence of carcinoma of the breast in properly selected patients.
thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children. thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions, including infectious diseases. we studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections, particularly pneumonia with empyema in children. a systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted. twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied. thrombocytosis (platelet counts greater than 500 x 10(3)/microliters) was present in 92.5%. platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 +/- 3.7 days (range, 7 to 25) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness. compared with a healthy control group, significant thrombocytosis, but of lower incidence, was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion, bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis. platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed. bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia. we found no correlation between thrombocytosis, neutrophilia, fever, the clinical course, complications, prognosis or treatment. neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed.
discrepancies in the measurement of isovolumic relaxation time: a study comparing m mode and doppler echocardiography. mitral valve cusp separation on m mode echogram, the mitral valve opening artefact, and the onset of forward transmitral flow recorded by doppler echocardiography have all been taken to mark the end of isovolumic relaxation, while its onset has been taken either as the aortic closure sound (a2) recorded phonocardiographically or the aortic closure artefact determined by doppler technique. possible differences in the measurement of the isovolumic relaxation time were studied when these landmarks were used in 44 healthy people, 14 patients with mitral stenosis, 21 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, and 24 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy by recording m mode echograms of the mitral valve, and pulsed and continuous wave doppler spectra of transmitral flow, with simultaneous electrocardiograms and phonocardiograms. a2 was effectively synchronous with the aortic artefact. however, when the onset of doppler flow was regarded as the end of isovolumic relaxation, the interval was significantly longer than when mitral cusp separation on m mode echograms was used: by 25 (10) ms in healthy individuals, by 25 (15) ms in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, and by 50 (35) ms in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. in patients with mitral stenosis the interval was only 5 (5) ms longer. the mitral valve opening artefact consistently followed the onset of flow and corresponded much more closely to the e point on the m mode echogram. this shows that it occurred during the rapid filling period and well beyond isovolumic relaxation by any definition. thus isovolumic relaxation time measured from a2 to the onset of transmitral flow or the mitral valve opening artefact differs from that derived from a2 to mitral valve cusp separation. these intervals cannot be used interchangeably to measure "isovolumic relaxation time".
reviewing the unicystic ameloblastoma: report of two cases. classification of ameloblastoma into solid, multicystic, unicystic, and peripheral types based on clinical appearance and effects has gained recent recognition. the unicystic ameloblastoma is a less encountered variant of the ameloblastoma. it appears more frequently in the second or third decade with no sexual or racial predilection. it is almost exclusively encountered asymptomatically in the posterior mandible. the following report of two cases discusses the pathophysiology, demographics, histology, and prognosis of the unicystic ameloblastoma.
radical prostatectomy and adjuvant radioactive gold seed placement: results of treatment at 5 and 10 years for clinical stages a2, b1 and b2 cancer of the prostate. between 1977 and 1988, 131 patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate underwent combined radical prostatectomy and intraoperative radioactive gold seed placement. of these 131 patients 80 were clinically assessed as having stage a2 (12), b1 (43) or b2 (25) cancer and they are the subject of this review. the average dose of radioactivity administered to each patient was 96.6 mci, and mean followup was 65 months (median 64 months). no patient in this series received any other form of adjuvant therapy until disease recurrence was demonstrated. local recurrences were observed in 2 patients (2.5%) in this series while distant recurrences were observed in 10 (12.5%). cancer specific survival free of disease at 5 years was 100% for clinical stage a2, 91% for b1 and 75% for b2 cancers. the 10-year survival free of disease was 100% for clinical stage a2, 82% for b1 and 68% for b2 cancers. covariants of clinical stage and seminal vesicle involvement influenced survival free of disease in a statistically significant manner (p less than 0.05) while pathological stage and degree of tumor differentiation did not. mild to severe complications were observed in 12 patients (15%). intraoperative placement of radioactive gold seeds into unresected pelvic tissues surrounding the site of prostatectomy offers a theoretical advantage in treatment by delivering tumoricidal levels of irradiation to residual foci of cancer not appreciated at the time of surgery. our results suggest that increases in cancer specific survival free of disease over that previously reported for prostatectomy alone may be achieved through this combined treatment regimen. furthermore, it is our opinion that therapeutic gains can be achieved without the attendant increases in morbidity and treatment delay often associated with adjuvant external beam radiotherapy.
postoperative pancreatic abscess due to plesiomonas shigelloides. plesiomonas shigelloides is being recognized with increasing frequency as a human pathogen. the organism is ubiquitous in fresh and brackish water, and clinical illness has been associated with foreign travel and ingestion of inadequately cooked seafood. we describe a 64-year-old filipino woman who presented 2 weeks after elective cholecystectomy and pancreatic biopsy with left upper quadrant pain, abdominal distention, and fever. computerized tomography of the abdomen revealed an abscess in the tail of the pancreas with fluid accumulation in the lesser omental sac. percutaneous aspiration yielded purulent material, and p. shigelloides was recovered in pure culture. to our knowledge, this is the first reported case of pancreatic abscess due to p. shigelloides.
rhodopsin mutants that bind but fail to activate transducin. rhodopsin is a member of a family of receptors that contain seven transmembrane helices and are coupled to g proteins. the nature of the interactions between rhodopsin mutants and the g protein, transduction (gt), was investigated by flash photolysis in order to monitor directly gt binding and dissociation. three mutant opsins with alterations in their cytoplasmic loops bound 11-cis-retinal to yield pigments with native rhodopsin absorption spectra, but they failed to stimulate the guanosine triphosphatase activity of gt. the opsin mutations included reversal of a charged pair conserved in all g protein-coupled receptors at the cytoplasmic border of the third transmembrane helix (mutant cd1), replacement of 13 amino acids in the second cytoplasmic loop (mutant cd2), and deletion of 13 amino acids from the third cytoplasmic loop (mutant ef1). whereas mutant cd1 failed to bind gt, mutants cd2 and ef1 showed normal gt binding but failed to release gt in the presence of guanosine triphosphate. therefore, it appears that at least the second and third cytoplasmic loops of rhodopsin are required for activation of bound gt.
mesangial cell accessory functions: mediation by intercellular adhesion molecule-1. mesangial cell (mc) proliferation is an early pathologic alteration characteristic of many forms of immune mediated glomerulonephritis. the intracapillary position, contractile capacity, and production of cytokines and other inflammatory molecules place mc in a pivotal position to initiate, mediate, and direct glomerular damage. we as well as others have noted increased levels of cytokines including ifn gamma, tnf, and il-1 and the cell surface mhc class ii and icam-1 molecules in the kidneys of mice with lupus nephritis. mhc class ii and icam-1 molecules are central to the interaction of t cells with antigen presenting cells (apc). since cytokines can increase both mhc class ii and icam-1 molecules, we investigated whether mesangial cells could function as apc or accessory cells after cytokine stimulation. for these studies we established a permanent mc line through transformation with origin-deficient sv40 dna. surface expression of icam-1 was similar in untransformed mc as well as sv40 transformed mc from normal mice and in untransformed cells from mice with lupus nephritis. basal expression of icam-1 was upregulated rapidly by ifn gamma, tnf, and il-1. mhc class ii expression could not be induced with tnf or il-1 alone but required prolonged stimulation with ifn gamma. mc adhered and presented antigen to an antigen specific iak restricted t cell hybridoma. anti-icam-1 mab decreased adhesion and antigen presentation of cytokine stimulated mc. by comparison, mhc class ii mab abrogated antigen presentation by mc bearing mhc class ii but did not block adhesion.
a prospective analysis of 1518 laparoscopic cholecystectomies. the southern surgeons club. background and methods. the southern surgeons club conducted a prospective study of 1518 patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy for treatment of gallbladder disease in order to evaluate the safety of this procedure. results. seven hundred fifty-eight operations (49.9 percent) were performed at academic hospitals, and 760 (50.1 percent) at private hospitals. in 72 patients (4.7 percent) the operation was converted to conventional open cholecystectomy; the most common reason for the change was the inability to identify the anatomy of the gallbladder as a result of inflammation in the region of this organ. a total of 82 complications occurred in 78 (5.1 percent) of the patients; this is comparable with the rates of 6 to 21 percent that have been reported for conventional cholecystectomy. overall, the most common complication was superficial infection of the site of insertion of the umbilical trocar. a total of seven injuries to the common bile duct or the hepatic duct occurred during the operation, for a rate of 0.5 percent. four of the seven injuries were simple lacerations, which were repaired after conversion to conventional cholecystectomy. the incidence of bile-duct injury in the first 13 patients operated on by each surgical group was 2.2 percent, as compared with 0.1 percent for subsequent patients. no complications were attributed directly to either cautery or laser-surgical technique, and similar numbers of complications occurred in academic and private hospitals. the mean hospital stay for the entire group was 1.2 days (range, 6 hours to 30 days). conclusions. the results of laparoscopic cholecystectomy compare favorably with those of conventional cholecystectomy with respect to mortality, complications, and length of hospital stay. a slightly higher incidence of biliary injury with the laparoscopic procedure is probably offset by the low incidence of other complications.
percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. when pancreatography shows a stenosis of the main pancreatic duct in patients with normal or inconclusive ultrasound and computed tomography, the exact nature of such stenosis is sometimes difficult to precise before surgical exploration. in such cases, the authors systematically performed a percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of the stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. fifteen patients were referred because of suspected pancreatic malignancy. the tumor markers, carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) and ca 19-9 were normal in 11 patients and elevated in one patient, whereas only ca 19-9 was elevated in three others. in 14 cases, both the ultrasound and computed tomography did not show any obvious pancreatic mass. the pancreatography was done through endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) (12 patients) or percutaneously in case of failure at ercp3 and showed a main pancreatic duct stenosis that underwent aspiration by percutaneous fine needle precisely positioned using biplane fluoroscopy. the aspirated material was then smeared on glass slides, air-dried, and stained by giemsa. in nine of the 15 patients, cytologic study revealed adenocarcinoma. this was confirmed by surgery in five and by progressive deterioration followed by death in four. in six patients, cytologic study gave a nonmalignant result. chronic pancreatitis was found in five of them, confirmed at surgery in three and based on uneventful follow-up of at least 12 months in two others. in one case, a pancreatic adenocarcinoma not detected by cytologic study was found at surgery. thus, the sensitivity and specificity of this diagnostic approach were 90% and 100%, respectively. no serious complication was noticed. the authors conclude that when ultrasound and computed tomography are inconclusive, percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance is a safe, simple, and helpful procedure in the investigation of patients with suspected pancreatic malignancy.
allograft tympanoplasty: predictive value of preoperative status. the functional and anatomical results of a series of 181 consecutive allograft tympanoplasties for ears with drum perforation and an intact ossicular chain were retrospectively reviewed and related to preoperative factors. drum closure was realized in 92% (166 of 181 cases evaluated 1 year after surgery), and 96.6% of the reconstructed drums were still intact 3 years after surgery (118 cases evaluated). an air-bone gap of less than 21 db was reached in 79.6% (of a total of 162 cases) 1 year after surgery, and in 78% (of a total of 118 cases) 3 years after surgery. age, contralateral pathology, the wet or dry status of the ear preoperatively, and the preoperative air-bone gap had no influence on anatomical results. the preoperative air-bone gap did not predict the postoperative air-bone gap. the influence of age and existence of contralateral pathology on hearing gain was only visible in some of the strictly defined patient groups. the wet preoperative status of the ear generally predicted lower functional gain.
intrathecal baclofen for spasticity in cerebral palsy seventeen patients with congenital spastic cerebral palsy and six patients with other forms of spasticity were injected intrathecally with doses of placebo or baclofen, 25 micrograms, 50 micrograms, or 100 micrograms, in a randomized, double-blind manner. muscle tone in the upper and lower extremities was assessed by ashworth scores both before the injections and every 2 hours afterward for 8 hours. function of the upper extremities was evaluated before the injections and 4 hours afterward. muscle tone in the lower extremities was significantly decreased within 2 hours after baclofen injection and remained lower than baseline 8 hours afterward. upper extremity tone and function were not significantly affected by these single doses. confusion and drowsiness occurred in two of the youngest children in the study after the 50-micrograms dose, but cleared within 2 hours. our findings indicate that intrathecal baclofen reduces spasticity in children with cerebral palsy, as it does in adults with spasticity of spinal origin.
interleukin 1 beta is expressed predominantly by enterocytes in experimental colitis. the cytokine interleukin 1 beta is an important mediator of inflammatory processes capable of inducing eicosanoid production, t-cell activation, and increased vascular permeability. in this study, in situ hybridization techniques were used to delineate the kinetics and cellular source of induced interleukin 1 beta in acute experimental colitis. the induction of interleukin 1 beta messenger rna was an early phenomenon and occurred predominantly in undifferentiated cells located in the basal part of the mucosal crypts but not in differentiated enterocytes. the undifferentiated enterocytes retained the messenger rna during differentiation and migration to more apical parts of the crypts. these results suggest that induction of interleukin 1 beta messenger rna in enterocytes is causally related to the subsequent inflammatory changes seen in acute experimental colitis.
embolism of cerebral tissue: a cause of coagulopathy and cerebral infarction? report of a case. we report a case of potentially survivable closed head injury, which was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and bilateral cerebral infarction. autopsy disclosed pulmonary emboli composed of cerebral tissue. we suggest that the entry of brain tissue into the systemic blood circulation caused severe disseminated intravascular coagulation, with consequent thrombosis of cerebral veins and spreading infarction.
long-term suppression of tremor by chronic stimulation of the ventral intermediate thalamic nucleus. the usefulness of high-frequency stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus (vim) as the first neurosurgical procedure in disabling tremor was assessed in 26 patients with parkinson's disease and 6 with essential tremor. 7 of these patients had already undergone thalamotomy contralateral to the stimulated side, and 11 others had bilateral vim stimulation at the same time. chronic stimulating electrodes connected to a pulse generator were implanted in the vim. tremor amplitude at rest, during posture holding, and during action and intention manoeuvres was assessed by means of accelerometry. of the 43 thalami stimulated, 27 showed complete relief from tremor and 11 major improvement (88%). the improvement was maintained for up to 29 months (mean follow-up 13 [sd 9] months). adverse effects were mild and could be eradicated by reduction or cessation of stimulation. this reversibility and adaptability, allowing control of side-effects, make thalamic stimulation preferable to thalamotomy, especially when treatment of both sides of the brain is needed.
endothelin family in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. to clarify whether endothelin may be present in human cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and, if it exists, to compare its molecular forms with those of endothelin in human plasma, we analyzed pooled human csf and plasma by high performance liquid chromatography with specific enzyme immunoassays for each endothelin peptide. of the four human endothelin peptides hitherto identified, big endothelin-1 was the major molecular form of endothelin present in human csf. in addition, there was a small but significant amount of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 in csf, while endothelin-2 was not detectable. similarly, big endothelin-1, endothelin-1, and endothelin-3 were identified in human plasma. although big endothelin-1 was the most abundant, a substantial amount of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 was found in plasma with a resultant lower molar ratio of big endothelin-1 to endothelin-1 than in csf. in all csf samples from 17 patients requiring diagnostic lumbar puncture or lumbar anesthesia, endothelin was detectable, with a preponderance of big endothelin-1 relative to endothelin-1 and endothelin-3. the mean concentrations of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 in simultaneously collected plasma were significantly (p less than 0.01) higher than those in csf, while there was no significant difference between the mean big endothelin-1 concentration in plasma and that in csf. there was no significant correlation among concentrations of big endothelin-1, endothelin-1, and endothelin-3 in each paired sample. these results indicate that endothelin is present in human csf that is differently processed from endothelin in vascular endothelial cells and suggest a possible role for endothelin as a modulator of neuronal functions.
gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance, with recovery after treatment. a 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10(9) l-1, consisting of 10% segmented neutrophils, 50% monocytes and 40% lymphocytes. a bone marrow aspirate showed 20% promyelocytes and 10% blasts with monoblastic features, and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis. in cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears. the test for heparin-precipitable protein ('cryofibrinogen') was strongly positive. during the following year, these signs and symptoms persisted, and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region. gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach, which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-hodgkin's lymphoma. after successful removal of the tumour, and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations, the patient recovered completely, and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared.
angiotensin ii levels in hypertensive and normotensive pregnancies. we measured circulating angiotension ii by radioimmunoassay in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension (n = 54), and compared these values with those obtained in women with normal pregnancy (n = 18) and in non pregnant women (n = 20). pregnant women had statistically significantly higher plasma angiotensin ii [mean (sd): 41.3 (12.6) pg/ml] than non-pregnant women [29.2 (11.3) pg/ml; p less than 0.004]. angiotensin ii concentrations in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension [mean (sd): 31.7 (16.2) pg/ml] were, on average, 25% lower than in normal pregnancy (p less than 0.003) and resembled those obtained in non-pregnant women. the lowest angiotensin ii levels were found in women with more severe forms of pregnancy-induced hypertension, such as proteinuric or superimposed pregnancy-induced hypertension. review of the published studies on angiotensin ii and our data suggest that the conflict among studies on angiotensin ii levels in pregnancy-induced hypertension is largely due to the heterogeneity of the study populations in the various reports.
role of ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. in 170 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma, ultrasound showed a high sensitivity in identifying focal liver lesions. fine needle aspiration biopsy guided by ultrasound yielded a pathological diagnosis in the majority of cases. the advantages of this technique, its high diagnostic yield and low cost, render the older technique of blind percutaneous biopsy using a coarse needle obsolete. laparoscopy retains its essential role in selected cases. complementary use of fine needle aspiration biopsy under ultrasound guidance and laparoscopy assures the highest rate of diagnostic accuracy in hepatocellular carcinoma. we confirm the poor sensitivity of alpha fetoprotein.
low plasma iron status and akathisia. thirty patients were examined to test the hypothesis that a depletion of iron levels is associated with symptoms of akathisia. fifteen akathisic patients were pair-matched with 15 non-akathisic patients. plasma ferritin levels were significantly decreased in the akathisic patients, and there was a significant inverse correlation between plasma iron levels and akathisia rating. in addition, akathisia ratings were found to be correlated with a scale measuring symptoms of tardive dyskinesia.
hepatic oxygen and lactate extraction during stagnant hypoxia. as o2 delivery falls, tissues must extract increasing amounts of o2 from blood to maintain a normal o2 consumption. below a critical delivery threshold, increases in o2 extraction cannot compensate for the falling delivery, and o2 uptake falls in a supply-dependent fashion. numerous studies have identified a critical delivery in whole animals, but the regional contributions to the critical o2 delivery are less fully understood. in the present study, we explored the limits of o2 extraction in the isolated liver, seeking to determine 1) the normal relationship between o2 consumption and delivery in the liver and 2) the relationship of hepatic lactate extraction to the drop in hepatic o2 consumption at low o2 deliveries. to answer these questions, using support dogs as a source for oxygenated metabolically stable blood, we studied eight pump-perfused canine livers. by lowering the blood flow in a model of stagnant hypoxia, we explored the relationship between o2 consumption and delivery over the entire physiological range of o2 delivery. the critical o2 delivery was 28 +/- 5 (sd) ml.kg-1.min-1; the livers extracted 68 +/- 9% of the delivered o2 before reaching supply dependence. this suggests that the liver has an o2 extraction capacity quite similar to the body as a whole and not different from other tissues that have been isolated. at high blood flows, the livers extracted approximately 10% of the lactate delivered by the blood, but the arteriovenous lactate differences were small. at low blood flows, however, the livers changed from lactate consumption to production. the o2 delivery coinciding with the dropoff in lactate extraction did not differ significantly from the critical o2 delivery. we conclude that reductions in lactate uptake by the liver do not precede the transition to o2 supply dependence.
the t(1;19)(q23;p13) results in consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences in acute lymphoblastic leukemias. the t(1;19)(q23;p13) chromosomal translocation is observed cytogenetically in 25% of children with pre-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and is associated with an adverse treatment outcome. the t(1;19) juxtaposes the e2a gene from chromosome 19 with the pbx1 gene on chromosome 1, leading to the production of fusion transcripts and resultant chimeric proteins that contain the transcriptional-activating motif of e2a and the dna-binding homeodomain of pbx1. to investigate the molecular nature of e2a/pbx1 fusion in patients with t(1;19) all we used an rna-based polymerase chain reaction (pcr) procedure to amplify a portion of the chimeric transcript. we detected e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts in cells from 97% (37 of 38) of cases in which the t(1;19) had been observed cytogenetically. molecular evidence of e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts was also observed in a patient in whom a t(1;19) was not detected cytogenetically and in one patient with subclinical levels of minimal residual disease before overt clinical relapse. in all pcr-positive cases the junction of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences occurred at precisely the same location as demonstrated by hybridization of pcr products with a fusion site-specific detection oligonucleotide. these findings demonstrate the consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences resulting from t(1;19) and suggest that site-specific fusion of e2a and pbx1 is an important pathogenic event in t(1;19) all.
role of ultrasonic tissue characterization to distinguish reversible from irreversible myocardial injury. tissue characterization reflects structural and functional integrity of tissues. inasmuch as reversible ischemia causes no structural damage and irreversible ischemia results in persistent structural myocardial damage, we postulated that ultrasonic tissue characterization can distinguish the two types of injuries. anesthetized open chest dogs underwent 15 minutes (group 1, n = 5) and 90 minutes (group 2, n = 8) of acute total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, followed by 3 hours of reperfusion. myocardial ischemia-infarction was confirmed with segment shortening, electronmicroscopic examination, and triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining. integrated backscatter rayleigh 5 (ibr5), a measure of ultrasonic backscatter, and fourier coefficient of amplitude modulation (fam), an index of cardiac cycle dependent variation in backscatter, were measured at baseline, during ischemia, and after reperfusion. group 1 (reversible ischemia) showed an increase in ibr5 from -48 +/- 1.2 db at control to -45 +/- 1.0 db (p less than 0.01) during ischemia, which returned to baseline after reperfusion (-47 +/- 1.3 db). fam was blunted during ischemia (6.2 +/- 1.0 db during control versus 1.2 +/- 1.0 db during ischemia, p less than 0.01) and recovered completely during reperfusion. segment shortening was abolished during ischemia (18% +/- 3% during control versus -12% +/- 5% during ischemia, p less than 0.01) and recovered partially during reperfusion (4% +/- 5%). the group 2 animals with irreversible myocardial injury showed an increase in ibr5, from -49 +/- 1.2 db during control to -44 +/- 1.0 db during ischemia (p less than 0.01) and paradoxical bulging of the ischemic region (17% +/- 3% to -7% +/- 3%, p less than 0.01) during ischemia.
neurodevelopmental performance of very-low-birth-weight infants with mild periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage. outcome at 5 to 6 years of age. the neurodevelopmental outcome of 38 very-low-birth-weight neonates (birth weight, less than 1501 g) was followed up prospectively from birth to 5 to 6 years of age to assess the neurodevelopmental sequelae of mild periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage (grades i and ii). all neonates were screened for periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage at 5 to 10 days of age. eleven incurred a mild periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage (group 1) and 27 had no periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage (group 2). each of the infants was neurodevelopmentally normal at 1 to 2 years of age. the 38 children were matched by race, age, sex, and socioeconomic status with control children (group 3) who had been born at term. on outcome measurements at 5 to 6 years of age, groups 1 and 2 scored significantly lower than group 3 on the combined test measurements and on three of the four individual measurements. group 1 scored significantly lower than group 2 on the combined test measurements only. these data indicate that very-low-birth-weight infants are at risk for learning problems. although children with mild periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage did not demonstrate a significant deficit on individual test scores, the significant difference on the combined battery suggests that mild periventricular, intraventricular hemorrhage has an adverse effect on global performance.
the effect of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to a change in heart rate. the ventricular effective refractory period was measured at a basic drive cycle length of 500 msec with basic drive train durations of two beats, eight beats, 20 beats and 3 minutes. the ventricular refractory periods were measured in the baseline state and after oral treatment with quinidine or mexiletine in 20 subjects each. in the baseline state, there was progressive shortening of the ventricular refractory period as the drive train duration increased from two beats to 3 minutes. quinidine prolonged refractoriness by 5% (p less than 0.001) at each drive train duration. mexiletine did not affect the ventricular effective refractory period at any of the drive train durations. in a control group of 20 subjects, there were no significant differences between two determinations of refractoriness at each basic drive train duration. in conclusion, neither quinidine nor mexiletine affect the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate. although the ventricular effective refractory period measured with a conventional basic drive train duration of eight beats is often more than 20 msec longer than the actual ventricular effective refractory period measured with a drive train duration of 3 minutes, the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the conventionally measured ventricular effective refractory period accurately reflect the effects of these drugs on the actual ventricular effective refractory period.
mechanical factors in large artery disease and antihypertensive drugs. hypertension may induce early alterations in large arteries by 2 mechanical stresses: one related to intravascular pressure, the other to blood flow dynamics. distending pressure force acts in a circumferential direction, inducing decreased arterial distensibility. arterial distensibility can be evaluated in humans by measurement of arterial compliance and pulse-wave velocity. it is well established that in chronic hypertension age and elevated pressure act together to increase arterial rigidity. blood flow dynamics induce frictional forces in the endothelial surfaces of arteries. these forces, expressed by shear stress, are proportional to the viscosity of the blood and to the velocity gradient at the arterial wall. measurement of blood viscosity and evaluation of velocity profile in the brachial arteries of hypertensive subjects have shown a reduction in wall shear rate and stress despite the elevation in blood viscosity. several studies have shown that drug therapy that successfully reduces blood pressure does not necessarily improve arterial compliance. in contrast, few data are available on the effects of antihypertensive medication on arterial wall shear in humans. arterial compliance and wall shear stress are 2 main therapeutic targets of potential importance in the physiopharmacologic approach to the effects of hypertension on atherogenesis.
reconstruction of the severely atrophic edentulous mandible by means of autogenous bone grafts and simultaneous placement of osseointegrated implants. a method of reconstructing the severely atrophic mandible that simultaneously provides additional strength and the ability to house osseointegrated implants is presented. the performance of the procedure from an external approach minimizes the possibility of oral contamination and, therefore, infection. the procedure has been performed on 10 patients, with a longest follow-up of 3 years. a 93% success rate has been achieved, and bone resorption at the implant sites has thus far been negligible. prosthetic rehabilitation has been done in 9 of the 10 cases; 3 have been tissue-supported prostheses, and 6 have been completely implant-supported prostheses.
intraoperative transesophageal color-coded doppler echocardiography for evaluation of residual regurgitation after mitral valve repair. because mitral valve competence after mitral valve reconstruction is awkward to assess during this procedure, we evaluated in this respect transesophageal color-coded doppler echocardiography in 23 patients undergoing mitral valve reconstruction for severe mitral regurgitation. transesophageal echocardiographic examinations were performed after induction of anesthesia but before sternotomy (baseline), after mitral valve repair before decannulation, and at sternal closure, all at similar mean aortic pressure and echocardiographic instrument settings. the degree of mitral regurgitation by transesophageal color doppler flow mapping was visually quantified on a 5-point scale (0 to 4), pending the left atrial extent of the regurgitant jet. this was compared with the degree of mitral regurgitation by left ventricular cineangiography performed within several weeks after operation and also visually quantified on a 5-point scale (0 to 4), with use of the right anterior oblique projection. there was good correlation between the two methods (r = 0.83; p less than 0.001). we conclude that residual mitral regurgitation, as assessed by transesophageal color flow mapping in the operating room, highly correlates with the ultimate mitral regurgitation by cineangiography. therefore transesophageal echocardiography can be helpful for evaluation of mitral valve competence during mitral valve reconstruction, and hence, in case of repair failure, allow valve replacement in the same surgical session, thus avoiding reoperation.
comparison of collagen propeptides as growth markers in children with inflammatory bowel disease. the serum concentrations of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of type i procollagen and the amino-terminal propeptide of type iii procollagen as biochemical markers of growth activity were compared in 46 children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease. significant correlations were noted between growth velocity and type i procollagen (r = 0.65; p less than 0.001) and type iii procollagen concentrations (r = 0.64; p less than 0.001). although the serum concentration of type i procollagen was generally about 15 times greater than that of type iii, the respective serum concentrations were highly correlated (r = 0.66; p less than 0.001) at all growth velocities. the use of daily corticosteroid therapy was associated with significantly lower concentrations of both propeptides (p less than 0.01) than was alternate-day or no corticosteroid therapy, respectively. children with growth arrest (0.0 cm/mo) had type i and type iii procollagen concentrations similar to those found in adults. these observations indicate that the serum concentrations of both collagen propeptides reflect growth activity in children with inflammatory bowel disease and suggest that routine measurement of collagen propeptides may have clinical value in monitoring normal and abnormal growth. the data suggest that the measurement of one propeptide does not offer an advantage over the other.
role of phenytoin in healing of large abscess cavities. the promotion of healing of large abscess cavities attained with topical phenytoin was evaluated in controlled studies of clinical and experimental wounds. in the clinical abscess cavities, phenytoin application in 20 patients compared with conventional treatment in 20 patients resulted in earlier separation of slough, decrease in oedema, control of pain and overall enhanced healing. the mean(s.d.) rate of reduction of wound area was 2.02(0.48) cm2/day in the phenytoin group versus 1.58(0.51) cm2/day in controls (p less than 0.05) on day 10, and 1.8(0.32) cm2/day versus 1.19(0.21) cm2/day (p less than 0.01) on day 20. the mean volume reduction rates at both the 10th and 20th day were 0.48(0.01) cm3/day for phenytoin versus 0.32(0.04) cm3/day for controls; (p less than 0.005). by day 20, 17 of the patients treated with phenytoin were rated as having healed completely, compared with only one of the controls. in a standardized guinea-pig model of the clinical abscess cavity, which included inoculation of the wound with bacillus proteus and klebsiella pneumoniae, an enhanced healing rate was also observed (at 7 days 0.40(0.05) cm2/day with phenytoin versus 0.21(0.08) cm2/day in controls; p less than 0.005). all eight of the animals treated with phenytoin healed by day 21, compared with one of the eight controls. biopsies of wounds treated with phenytoin showed less inflammation, no necrosis, and enhanced neovascularization, collagen deposition and fibroblast proliferation compared to controls. bacterial colonies also decreased more rapidly with the use of phenytoin.
biopsy of the breast for mammographically detected lesions. we prospectively studied 718 women who underwent biopsy of the breast for suspicious, mammographically detected mammary lesions in an attempt to identify key clinical risk factors, as well as roentgenographic characteristics associated with the appearance of early carcinoma of the breast. patients with a benign outcome had an average age of 55 years versus 63 years for patients with carcinoma of the breast. seventy-six per cent of these patients had no previous history of mammary problems, 20 per cent had a positive family history for carcinoma of the breast, 58 per cent were premenopausal and 21 per cent had used birth control pills. except for age (p less than 0.001), the distribution of clinical risk factors was equal among patients with benign or malignant outcomes. suspicious mammographic findings included mass lesions (53 per cent), calcifications (36 per cent) and the association of both (11 per cent). the predominant wolfe pattern on mammography was p1 (36 per cent). no relationship was observed between wolfe pattern and malignant conditions. in this group of patients, mammography was poorly specific; however, the positive predictive value increased with age and is related to the age-specific prevalence of carcinoma of the breast. eight hundred and twenty-five lesions were removed. twenty-five per cent (n = 203) of the specimens taken at biopsy contained carcinoma. stellate mass lesions were highly suggestive of a malignant growth (p less than 0.0001). no relationship between the size of the suspicious mammographic mass and the malignant lesion was observed. a marked correlation (chi-square test with yate's correction) was observed between malignant tumor and lesions with a linear or branching pattern, more than 15 calcifications, or small sized calcifications. the presence of a mass with calcifications was associated with carcinoma in 34 per cent. the incidence of invasive carcinoma was much higher for mass lesions (81 per cent) than for suspicious calcifications (56 per cent) (p less than 0.0001).
intracranial aneurysms: interventional neurovascular treatment with detachable balloons--results in 215 cases patients with complex or surgically difficult intracranial aneurysms are being treated with interventional neurovascular techniques. with neuroleptic anesthesia and a transfemoral femoral approach, a silicone micro-balloon can be flow directed through the intracranial circulation, guided directly into the aneurysm, and detached. the aneurysm is thus eliminated from the circulation, and the parent artery is preserved. for broad-based or ectatic aneurysms, test occlusion followed by permanent occlusion of the aneurysm and parent vessel can be performed. since 1981, 211 patients with 215 aneurysms, including 177 cases involving the anterior and 38 cases involving the posterior circulation, have been treated with this technique. in 127 cases (59.1%), the parent vessel was occluded; in 88 cases (40.9%), primary occlusion of the aneurysm was achieved with preservation of the parent artery. therapy-related complications included 21 deaths (9.8%) and 16 strokes (7.4%). follow-up examinations were performed at 1, 3, and 12 months after treatment, and follow-up ranged from 5 months to 9 years. in patients in whom standard surgical therapy fails or for aneurysms in surgically inaccessible anatomic locations, interventional techniques that make use of detachable balloons may be a useful therapeutic alternative.
alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver--always important? we have studied the clinical histories and liver biopsy findings in 1951 consecutive adult patients with suspected chronic liver disease, and in four known piz-homozygous alpha 1-antitrypsin-deficient patients with emphysema (candidates for lung transplant) and no known liver disease, in order to assess the importance of periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver and their possible causal role in liver disease, and to assess the value of possible screening tests. periportal granules were found in 30 (1.5 per cent) of the 1951 liver biopsies and in all four known piz-homozygous subjects. they were the sole putative aetiological agent in eight of 85 patients (9.4 per cent) with otherwise cryptogenic cirrhosis and present in 2.5 per cent of patients with cirrhosis of known aetiology (alcohol, autoimmune etc.). all but one were z phenotype (seven homozygotes, 22 heterozygotes). alpha 1-antitrypsin granules were seen in 12 patients (including three of four lung transplant candidates) with no histological chronic liver disease. determination of serum alpha 1-antitrypsin levels was quite unhelpful in identifying these patients. this study does not support the concept that periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules are necessarily pathogenic, but in some cases they may be causally related to otherwise cryptogenic liver disease. the presence of granules gave no important diagnostic, therapeutic or prognostic information.
generation of human monoclonal antibodies against colon cancer. lymphocytes from regional lymph nodes of patients with colon cancer were fused with a human lymphoblastoid cell line with or without in vitro immunization. the efficacy of these two protocols for the generation of human monoclonal antibodies against colon cancer was investigated. the hyperplastic lymph nodes adjacent to the tumor were the best source of b lymphocytes. fusion frequency and the number of tumor-reactive clones were markedly increased when the in vitro immunization protocol was applied prior to fusion. as a stimulant in in vitro immunization, the supernatant of pokeweed mitogen-stimulated t lymphocytes was superior to the supernatant of mixed lymphocytes culture. carcinoembryonic antigen at 20 micrograms/l seemed to be the optimal dose for in vitro immunization. the reactivities of human monoclonal antibodies thus generated were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and confirmed by immunoperoxidase staining. combining in vitro immunization with lymphocytes of cancer patients may lead to the successful production of clinically useful human monoclonal antibodies.
left ventricular regional wall stress in dilated cardiomyopathy. left ventriculography with simultaneous pressure micromanometry was performed in 11 normal control subjects and 17 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (dcm). left ventricular silhouettes in the right anterior oblique projection were divided into eight areas, and regional wall stress was computed by janz's method in each area excluding the two most basal areas. wall stress was higher in dcm patients than in control subjects (p less than 0.01). the percent area changes from end diastole to end systole in each area were lower in dcm patients than in control subjects (mean for six areas, 22 +/- 14% versus 54 +/- 9%, respectively, p less than 0.01), but the coefficient of variation for the percent area changes in the six areas of the left ventricle in dcm patients was greater than that in control subjects (32 +/- 17% versus 15 +/- 4%, respectively, p less than 0.01), indicating regional differences in hypokinesis. there was a significant negative correlation between end-systolic regional wall stress and percent area change (r = -0.60 to -0.86, p less than 0.05) in each area. thus, excessive regional afterload may play an important role in causing regional hypokinesis in dcm.
spontaneous changes in ventricular tachycardia cycle length. understanding spontaneous fluctuations in ventricular tachycardia cycle length is required to develop algorithms for ventricular tachycardia detection and termination. variations in cycle length, time to stable cycle length and the range of rr intervals during ventricular tachycardia were analyzed in 74 episodes of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced in patients not taking antiarrhythmic medication. linear regression demonstrated cycle length variability to decrease over time (41 +/- 24 to 17 +/- 19 ms, p less than 0.001). slower ventricular tachycardia had more cycle length variability than faster ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.001). ventricular tachycardia that was initially more variable tended to remain more variable (p less than 0.001). fifty-four percent of episodes stabilized within the first 15 beats, 75% by 30 beats and 93% by 50 beats. the number of beats to stable cycle length was independent of ventricular tachycardia rate. the average range in cycle length per episode was 127 +/- 72 ms; 12% of ventricular tachycardia episodes varied by less than 50 ms and 45% by less than 150 ms. the maximal range in rr intervals from a single episode of ventricular tachycardia was 290 ms. therefore, ventricular tachycardia demonstrates a wide range of cycle lengths and has time-dependent changes in variability and stability. these cycle length changes should be considered in the algorithms for ventricular tachycardia detection and termination by automatic antitachycardia devices.
infrarenal abdominal aortic disease: a review of the retroperitoneal approach. transabdominal exposure is the most widely used surgical approach to the infrarenal aorta. over the last 30 years a number of surgeons have championed the retroperitoneal approach for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and aortoiliac occlusive disease using a variety of incisions. several studies attest to the clinical superiority of this approach over the transabdominal route and recent evidence demonstrates reduced physiological disturbance with this technique. the retroperitoneal approach is suitable for all elective operations on the abdominal aorta, particularly in patients with high-risk aneurysms and in selected patients with symptomatic and ruptured aneurysms.
percutaneous angioscopy during coronary angioplasty using a steerable microangioscope. the feasibility of using a flexible, steerable angioscope to perform coronary angioscopy before and after percutaneous coronary angioplasty was tested. the microangioscope fits through an 8f coronary angioplasty guiding catheter and contains a multifiber viewing bundle incorporated into the body of a 4.3f balloon catheter with a central lumen for distal flushing and guide-wire passage. angioscopy was performed without complications 45 times in 24 patients, including 6 patients with stable and 18 with unstable angina. circumferential visualization of the target lesion was successful in 20 (83%) of the 24 patients and improved with operator experience. excellent visualization of the target lesion was achieved in 16 (94%) of the last 17 patients. plaque, thrombus and dissection were among the abnormal findings in the 20 patients (4 with stable, 16 with unstable angina) in whom circumferential viewing of the target lesion was achieved. in four patients with restenosis after angioplasty, the lesion morphology was distinctly different from that of lesions in arteries without prior angioplasty. in patients with stable angina, no thrombus or dissection was seen by angiography or angioscopy before angioplasty. in patients with unstable angina, thrombus was detected more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty (8 versus 2 of 16) and after (15 versus 2 of 16) angioplasty. intimal dissection was also seen much more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty (7 versus 0 of 16) and after angioplasty (16 versus 7 of 16). it is concluded that high resolution percutaneous coronary angioscopy can be performed safely in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. further investigation is needed before this diagnostic tool can be applied clinically.
fluosol: an oxygen-delivery fluid for use in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. fluosol (20% intravascular perfluorochemical emulsion) is an oxygen-carrying emulsion used to deliver oxygen to ischemic myocardium during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). fluosol is composed of two perfluorochemicals, perfluorodecalin and perfluorotripropylamine. it has a high capacity for oxygen solubility, a low viscosity, and a small particle size. following administration, the perfluorochemicals in fluosol are not metabolized. rather, most are expired as gaseous particles through the lungs; the remainder are taken up by the organs of the reticuloendothelial system and later expired. when administered during balloon inflation in ptca, fluosol preserves ventricular wall motion and global left ventricular ejection fraction. in addition, it minimizes st segment changes and preserves cardiac output. fluosol may be especially useful in patients who have poor contractile reserve, multivessel disease, or serious underlying illness. other uses under investigation include limitation of myocardial infarct size and chemosensitization or radiosensitization of malignant tumors. adverse effects secondary to the use of fluosol include ventricular arrhythmias, pruritus, bradycardia, chest pain, dyspnea, and increased respiratory rate. fluosol must be thawed, admixed, warmed to body temperature, and oxygenated prior to intracoronary administration. the usual administration rate is 60 ml/min during each balloon inflation.
the relationship of headache symptoms with severity and duration of attacks. efforts to develop clinically useful headache classification schemes have generally focused on linking specific symptom groupings with specific headache subtypes. an alternative conceptual approach, the "severity model" of headache, considers a continuum of headache ranging from mild to severe forms with specific headache subtypes distinguished by level of severity rather than unique constellations of symptoms. a population-based telephone interview was carried out among 10,169 subjects aged 12-29 to estimate the prevalence of serious headaches and better characterize symptoms that accompany headache attacks. in an analysis of frequency of occurrence, pain and duration of recent (within 4 weeks prior to interview) headache attacks, the data revealed that common symptoms (such as forehead pain and pain in the back of the head, neck and shoulders) were reported frequently, but headaches with these symptoms were generally characterized by low levels of pain and short duration. although not an original study objective, the data were analyzed to determine whether distinct symptom constellations could be identified or whether symptoms overlapped between headache types. symptoms of migraine were frequently experienced concomitant with tension-type symptoms; the resultant headaches were usually characterized as moderate in intensity. in contrast, symptoms usually associated with migraine in the absence of concomitant tension-type symptoms were infrequently experienced, but resulted in headaches causing the greatest disability. the data provide some support for the severity model of headache.
outpatient management of schizophrenia. as effective antipsychotic pharmacotherapy has become available, patients with schizophrenia are increasingly managed in an outpatient setting by primary care physicians. pharmacotherapy is generally effective in treating "positive," or psychotic, symptoms and lessening the risks of relapse, but ineffective in improving "negative," or deficit, symptoms. aggressive attempts to totally control positive symptoms and to ameliorate negative symptoms tend to increase side effects and may be detrimental to the patient. intensive psychotherapeutic and rehabilitative approaches are generally unproductive. attempting to obtain a cure is unrealistic. a moderate approach is recommended, taking into consideration the limitations of existing treatments, achieving control of extreme symptoms and minimizing social and occupational limitations.
transaortic endarterectomy of renal visceral artery lesions in association with infrarenal aortic surgery. the complexity of infrarenal aortic reconstruction increases when bypass grafts to revascularize associated renal and visceral arteries are needed. lesions in these vessels, however, are usually limited to their aortic orifices and therefore are amenable to retroperitoneal transaortic endarterectomy. a combined infrarenal aortic reconstruction and transaortic endarterectomy of the renal/visceral vessels was used in 18 (16%) of 120 patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction over a 2-year-period. transaortic endarterectomy was performed primarily for renal preservation in 11 patients with bilateral, high-grade renal artery stenoses and abnormal renal function (serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.9 mg/dl). in seven patients transaortic endarterectomy was performed as a secondary procedure during the course of complex reconstruction of aneurysmal or occlusive aortic disease. mean serum creatinine, which was elevated preoperatively in 14 (78%) patients (3.3 mg/dl), decreased significantly after the operation (2.0 mg/dl, p less than 0.01). a single death occurred in the 18 patients undergoing transaortic endarterectomy. renal function preservation can be achieved by renal revascularization in patients with bilateral renal artery stenoses and decreased renal function. the retroperitoneal approach to aortic reconstruction and the use of transaortic endarterectomy allows correction of most renal/visceral vessel involvement in complex aortic revascularization procedures.
regional differences in the intranodal distribution of tumor cells. the intranodal distribution of tumor cells was examined in 103 mesenteric and 135 axillary nodes to determine the frequency of a circumferential type of distribution and its relationship, if any, to central necrosis. eighteen percent of the mesenteric nodes removed at surgery from patients with colon cancer contained a circumferential rim of viable tumor cells in an area corresponding wholly or in part to the normal location of the marginal sinus. in each case this rim of tumor cells surrounded a large central area of necrosis. in contrast, only one of the 135 axillary nodes removed from patients with breast cancer demonstrated this pattern. these findings suggest that by interrupting blood and lymph vessels, the circumferential spread of tumor cells underlies development of central necrosis. previously described structural dissimilarities between mesenteric and axillary nodes may explain the striking difference in incidence of this pattern in these nodes.
the effects of epidural anesthesia on the doppler velocimetry of umbilical and uterine arteries in normal and hypertensive patients during active term labor. to study the effects of epidural anesthesia on uterine and umbilical artery blood flow in preeclampsia, we observed 25 patients in active labor at 36 or more weeks' gestation. seven had preeclampsia, eight had chronic hypertension, and ten had no complications. doppler velocimetry of the uterine and umbilical arteries was performed before and after intravenous fluid loading and at 30 and 60 minutes after epidural blockade. maternal vital signs and fetal heart rate were monitored continuously. after epidural block, mean maternal blood pressure fell significantly in all groups, but no maternal hypotension was observed. mean maternal and fetal heart rates were unchanged. after epidural block, mean uterine artery systolic-diastolic (s-d) ratios did not change in the chronic-hypertension and normal groups, but fell significantly in the preeclamptic group to values similar to those of the normal group. umbilical artery s-d ratios did not change in any group. in preeclamptic pregnancy, epidural anesthesia may help to reduce uterine artery vasospasm and may benefit intrapartum fetal well-being.
interleukin-6 (il-6) is an intermediate in il-1-induced proliferation of leukemic human megakaryoblasts. we have examined the in vitro effects of recombinant human (rh) interleukin-1 (il-1) on the growth of purified megakaryoblasts obtained from patients with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia. we demonstrate that both il-1 alpha and il-1 beta treatment of these cells led to stimulation of dna synthesis (as shown by increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation up to 35-fold) and also resulted in colony formation of leukemic megakaryoblasts. however, the stimulatory effect of il-1 was dependent on endogenous production of il-6, because addition of neutralizing monoclonal antibody (moab) to il-6 abrogated the stimulatory activity of il-1. in contrast, neutralizing moabs to granulocyte (g)-colony stimulating factor (csf), granulocyte-macrophage (gm)-csf, and macrophage (m)-csf failed to counteract the growth-enhancing effects of il-1. leukemic megakaryoblasts accumulated il-6 mrna and released il-6 protein into their culture supernatant when exposed to rh il-1 but failed to disclose transcripts for g-, gm-, and m-csf under these conditions. analysis of il-6 receptor (il-6r) transcript levels demonstrated that megakaryoblasts constitutively expressed il-6r mrna and that these transcripts are down-regulated to undetectable levels upon exposure to il-1 and il-6. increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation by megakaryoblasts could be duplicated by exogenous il-6 that could be blocked by neutralizing moab to il-6. in conclusion, our results suggest that leukemic megakaryoblasts could produce and secrete il-6, and express il-6r, and that the growth-enhancing effect of il-1 on these cells is indirect, via production of il-6 by leukemic cells.
mechanisms of reoxygenation injury in cultured ventricular myocytes to investigate factors contributing to reperfusion and reoxygenation myocardial injury, we exposed layers of cultured chick ventricular myocytes to severe hypoxia for up to 3 hours in the presence of 20 mm 2-deoxyglucose, zero glucose, and 5 mm pyruvate, and then exposed the myocytes to reoxygenation. lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) release was moderately increased during 3 hours of hypoxia but was increased markedly during reoxygenation. coincident changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([ca2+]i) and cell motion were also measured during hypoxia and reoxygenation. during hypoxia, [ca2+]i increased to more than 1 microm, and with reoxygenation, [ca2+]i abruptly decreased slightly but remained elevated more than 1 microm. cells developed a stable rigor after 30 minutes of hypoxia. reoxygenation caused a marked hypercontracture within 5 minutes. pretreatment of myocytes with either 2,3-butanedione monoxime, which inhibits ca2(+)-dependent force development, or cyanide inhibited reoxygenation hypercontracture. ldh release after reoxygenation was also significantly reduced in the presence of 2,3-butanedione monoxime. treatment of myocytes with superoxide dismutase and catalase during hypoxia also resulted in a decrease in ldh release during reoxygenation. we conclude that an abrupt increase in [ca2+]i during reoxygenation does not account for reoxygenation injury. however, in the presence of elevated [ca2+]i, reoxygenation and the resulting probable resynthesis of atp causes [ca2+]i-dependent myofilament crossbridge cycling, and the resulting hypercontracture contributes to myocyte damage. the generation of oxygen free radicals after reoxygenation also appears to contribute to cell injury in this system.
bilateral vocal cord hematomas associated with shoulder harness use. a case of bilateral vocal cord hematomas caused by a shoulder harness injury is presented. the patient was restrained by a three-point belt system and was involved in a front-end collision. she presented with mild facial and chest injuries and a contusion of the neck. one hour after injury she began to complain of hoarseness without airway compromise. fiberoptic laryngoscopy showed bilateral true vocal cord hematomas. the patient had an uneventful hospital course and a full recovery. the importance of the mechanism of injury and associated injuries is discussed.
spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer. fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to hope hospital, none being judged to be in a terminal condition. one patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief. there were three failures. twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation. of these, 20 had major recovery of neurological function. patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had 'prophylactic' decompression at the time of stabilisation; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression. the results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation. postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible, and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy, as indicated.
possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori. this study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes (lts) in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori. biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of lts. there was correlation between the ltb4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically. the level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive. the ltb4 level in mucosa infected with c. pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa. these findings suggest that endogenous lts may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with c. pylori.
radiation therapy of early (stages i and ii-a) seminoma of testis after initial orchiectomy. with initial orchiectomy and radiation therapy, the prognosis of the patients with early (stages i and ii-a) testicular seminoma is nearing almost 100 percent. thirty-two patients with stage i and 13 patients with stage ii-a seminoma of the testis were treated with initial orchiectomy. this was followed by estimation biochemical markers and radiologic investigations. all the patients with stage i disease received radiotherapy to the ipsilateral pelvic and para-aortic nodes. the patients with stage ii-a disease also received radiation therapy to the supradiaphragmatic regions. the disease-free survival in both groups of patients was found to be 100 percent.
beneficial effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema following brain embolization in rats. we assessed the effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema after inducing multifocal brain infarcts in 108 rats by the intracarotid injection of 50-microns carbonized microspheres. an ethanol dimer that induces systemic ketosis, 25 mmol/kg i.p. butanediol was injected every 3 hours to produce a sustained increase in the plasma level of beta-hydroxybutyrate. treatment significantly attenuated ischemia-induced metabolic changes by increasing the concentrations of phosphocreatine, adenosine triphosphate, and glycogen and by reducing the concentrations of pyruvate and lactate. lactate concentration 2, 6, and 12 hours after embolization decreased by 13%, 44%, and 46%, respectively. brain water content increased from 78.63% in six unembolized rats to 80.93% in 12 saline-treated and 79.57% in seven butanediol-treated rats 12 hours after embolization. (p less than 0.05). the decrease in water content was associated with significant decreases in the concentrations of sodium and chloride. the antiedema effect of butanediol could not be explained by an osmotic mechanism since equimolar doses of urea or ethanol were ineffective. our results support the hypothesis that the beneficial effect of butanediol is mediated through cerebral utilization of ketone bodies arising from butanediol metabolism, reducing the rate of glycolysis and the deleterious accumulation of lactic acid during ischemia.
barrett's esophagus in children and young adults. frequent association with mental retardation. since few data are available on epidemiologic features of barrett's esophagus in young persons, we reviewed the case records of patients undergoing esophageal biopsies at children's hospital, boston, from 1982 through 1986. there were 1423 esophageal biopsies obtained from 1173 patients, and histological evidence of esophagitis was present in 397 cases; barrett's epithelium was diagnosed in 10 patients (0.9% of total and 2.5% of esophagitis cases). specialized columnar epithelium was present in seven of these 10 patients. the mean age of those with barrett's epithelium was 19.0 +/- 7.9 years (range 3.7-27 years) compared to 8.7 +/- 6.7 years (range 4 days to 31 years) for all patients biopsied (p less than 0.0001); 80% (8/10) of the barrett's cases were male compared to 54% of all cases. the relative importance of the possible risk factors was assessed by comparing the 10 patients with barrett's with the 541 patients that had esophageal biopsies in calendar years 1984-1985. mental retardation, a risk factor not previously described for young persons with barrett's esophagitis, was present in 70% (7/10) of the barrett's patients but in only 15% of all patients biopsied (p less than 0.0002). the frequency of mental retardation was also higher, but not significantly so (p greater than 0.07), in patients with biopsies that were positive for esophagitis (19%) than in those with normal biopsies (14%). no significant differences were found between the barrett's group and all patients biopsied in regards to racial origin, prior stricture, or fundoplication.
high- versus standard-dose megestrol acetate in women with advanced breast cancer: a phase iii trial of the piedmont oncology association. one hundred seventy-two patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive oral standard-dose megestrol acetate (ma), 160 mg/d or high-dose ma, 800 mg/d. all but two patients had one prior trial of tamoxifen therapy for either metastatic disease (74%) or as adjuvant treatment (26%). pretreatment characteristics were similar for both arms. high-dose ma resulted in a superior complete plus partial response rate (27% v 10%, p = .005), time to treatment failure (median, 8.0 v 3.2 months, p = .019), and survival (median, 22.4 v 16.5 months, p = .04) when compared with standard-dose therapy. these differences remained significant after adjustment for other covariates. thirty-four patients were given high-dose ma after failure of standard-dose ma treatment, and none responded. weight gain was the most distressing side effect, with 13% of standard-dose and 43% of high-dose patients gaining more than 20 lbs. four major cardiovascular events occurred in patients receiving high-dose treatment and one in patients given standard doses. other toxicity was modest. high-dose ma may represent a significant improvement in secondary endocrine therapy for advanced breast cancer patients refractory to initial endocrine treatment, but its use on a regular basis should be reserved until these results are confirmed by other clinical trials.
flow cytometric dna index in the prognosis of colorectal cancer. the authors investigated the relationship between flow cytometric dna index (di, defined as the ratio of the dna content of malignant cells to that of normal cells) and other prognostic factors (grade and stage, anatomical site, age and sex) with the survival of 115 patients with colorectal cancer. multiple biopsy specimens from 62 patients were taken during colonoscopy before surgery. additional samples from 53 patients were obtained from paraffin-embedded material. all patients were treated with surgery only. fresh-frozen material gave higher incidence of dna aneuploidy than paraffin-embedded material (79% versus 41%). the patients with dna diploid tumors (di = 1) had a better overall survival than those with dna aneuploid tumors (di = 1). among dna aneuploid tumors, those with di greater than 1.2 (excluding di = 2) were worse than those with di = 1.2 (excluding di = 1) and di = 2. cox's regression analysis showed that pathologic stage was more important for prognosis than dna index, whereas age, sex, histologic grade, and anatomic site were removed from the analysis as not relevant for prognosis. relative risk of death (rr), in reference to patients with di = 1 and stages a + b (rr = 1), were rr = 1.8 for patients with carcinomas with stage c. rr = 2.7 for patients with carcinomas with dna near-diploid and dna tetraploid tumors. rr = 3.5 for those with di greater than 1.2 (excluding di = 2), and rr = 8.0 for those with stage d. these data indicate that flow cytometrically evaluated di values have a relevant independent power for predicting the clinical outcome of colorectal cancer patients.
the expression of progesterone receptors coincides with an arrest of dna synthesis in human breast cancer. two main models to account for the heterogeneous expression of estrogen receptors (er) and progesterone receptors (pr) in human breast cancer have been proposed: the clonal model and the stem cell model. the authors previously provided evidence supporting the stem cell model since it was found that most of the proliferating cells in er-positive (er+) human breast cancer lack er and that the er-negative (er-) and er+ subpopulations are interrelated. the authors have analyzed in eighteen er+/pr+ primary breast tumors the simultaneous expression of er or pr (by immunohistochemistry) and dna synthesis (by autoradiography) after 30 minutes of 3h-thymidine incorporation. the authors demonstrated that: (1) the average numbers of er+ and pr+ cells were similar (36.8 +/- 10.7% and 39.3 +/- 17.6%, respectively); (2) the thymidine-labeling indexes of the er+, er-, pr+, and pr- subpopulations were 0.53 +/- 0.69%, 0.74 +/- 0.49%, 0.21 +/- 0.21 and 0.94 +/- 0.54%, respectively; and (3) 75.2% of the dna-synthesizing cells were er-, and 88.8% of them were pr-. the authors conclude that the cellular subpopulations expressing er and pr were not identical, and the expression of pr was associated with a lower rate of cellular proliferation than was er expression.
coronary flow and mental stress. experimental findings. the hemodynamic, electrocardiographic, and coronary flow responses to a psychological test were studied in 13 pigs both in the absence (group 1, n = 8) and the presence (group 2, n = 5) of a transient occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. the psychological test consisted of presenting food to a fasting but restrained animal for 3 minutes. in group 1, stress increased the heart rate from 128 +/- 5 to 176 +/- 8 beats/min (mean +/- sem) and arterial pressure from 93 +/- 4 to 112 mm hg. comparing the individual increase in rate-pressure product with the increase in coronary conductance during the test, a parallel response was found in only two animals, whereas a relatively lower coronary conductance was observed in the remainder, suggesting vasoconstriction. clinical signs of ischemia or life-threatening arrhythmias were never observed in this group of animals. each group 2 animal underwent two occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery, randomly performed on separate days both in the presence and the absence of the food deprivation stress. when the latter was applied in the presence of occlusion, all animals developed ventricular fibrillation in less than 2 minutes (mean, 81.4 seconds). conversely, only one animal had ventricular fibrillation when a 3-minute occlusion was performed without exposure to stress. this occurred despite the fact that more severe ischemia (as detected by an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and decreases in dp/dt and systolic pressure) was recorded at 3 minutes of occlusion.
multiple noncontiguous spine fractures. the data from a prospective study of 508 spine injuries were reviewed to determine the incidence of multiple noncontiguous spine fractures. all patients were examined at admission and at 1 and 2 years postinjury. this series identified 77 (15.2%) multilevel fractures. motor vehicle accidents were the primary cause of these fractures. the incidence of neurologic injury was not significantly different between multiple noncontiguous and single fractures. failure to use seat belts and ejection from the vehicle were the main factors associated with multiple noncontiguous spine injuries. seven major fracture patterns were identified, which accounted for 60% of these injuries. the prognosis for multilevel spine fractures was not significantly worse that that for single-level injuries.
laryngeal dystonia: a series with botulinum toxin therapy. laryngeal dystonia is a syndrome characterized by action-induced, involuntary spasms of the laryngeal muscles. most patients have involvement of the adductor laryngeal muscles producing uncontrolled spasms during phonation, and a "strain-strangle" speech pattern commonly termed "spastic dysphonia." other patients have involvement of the abductor muscles producing "whispering dysphonia." rare patients have paradoxical vocal cord motion during respiration with adductor spasms on inspiration. over the past 5 years we have used botulinum toxin (botox) to treat more than 200 patients with laryngeal dystonia. this group includes patients with adductor involvement (phonatory dystonia, recurrent laryngeal nerve section failure, respiratory dystonia) and those with abductor involvement (whispering dystonia). patients received benefit within 24 to 72 hours, with sustained improvement for 2 to 9 months with an average of 4 months. patients improved to an average of 90% of normal function. clinically significant adverse effects included extended breathy dysphonia and mild choking on fluids. botox has become our treatment of choice for dystonic conditions of the larynx.
surgical repair of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome complicated with myocardial bridging. myocardial bridging causes myocardial ischemia during supraventricular tachycardia. we present a case of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome combined with myocardial bridging. the patient complained of angina pectoris during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia because of severe constriction of the left anterior descending coronary artery during systole. a myocardial scintigram revealed myocardial ischemia in the anteroseptal wall during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. myotomy to prevent myocardial bridging and interruption of the accessory conduction pathway was successfully accomplished in a one-stage operation.
long-term results of submandibular duct transposition for drooling. this study examines the long-term results and morbidity of submandibular duct transposition in drooling children. twenty-two patients, aged 3 to 18 years, with neurological dysfunction and excessive drooling underwent submandibular duct transposition between 1984 and 1987. in january 1990, 20 patients were reviewed. their degree of drooling pre-operatively, immediately post-operatively and currently was assessed. the rate of improvement and the occurrence of complications were noted. drooling was 'much better' in the early post-operative period in 17 of the 20 patients, and this improvement was invariably noted within three weeks. in the three other patients drooling was 'better'. deterioration occurred in only three patients over the entire follow-up period. complications all occurred in the first 18 months following surgery; they consisted of salivary retention cysts in four and transient submandibular gland swelling in a fifth patient.
hepatocyte expression of hbcag and serum hbeag in hepatitis b: comparison of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies during a trial of interferon. the distribution and quantitative expression of hbcag in relation to serum hbeag and liver histology before and after a trial of interferon in 50 patients with chronic type b hepatitis were evaluated using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. in general, both antisera showed a similar pattern in terms of the distribution of hbcag, with predominant localisation of hbcag in the cytoplasm in hbeag positive patients with chronic active hepatitis. semiquantitative analysis showed, however, that there was a higher degree of cytoplasmic expression of hbcag with polyclonal than with monoclonal anti-hbc. some of the hbeag positive patients with only a focal expression of hbcag in the cytoplasm by polyclonal anti-hbc showed no expression of hbcag with monoclonal anti-hbc. the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the histological features of chronic active hepatitis or the persistence of serum hbeag on follow up, suggesting that it did not result from non-specific or false positive staining. all of the hbeag negative patients with minimal histological changes or inactive cirrhosis were hbcag negative with both antisera. in conclusion, though both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies produced a quite similar distribution of hbcag in patients with chronic type b hepatitis, polyclonal antibody seemed to be more sensitive in detecting hbcag in the cytoplasm than did monoclonal anti-hbc, and the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the clinical and histological outcome.
measurement techniques for melanoma: a statistical comparison inter- and intra-observer variation in measuring the depth of invasion of malignant melanomas was assessed using three different techniques: eye-piece graticule, stage vernier, and projection image analysis. significant variation was found for all methods but was least pronounced with the stage vernier. it is recommended that this should be the preferred technique for routine use.
one hundred percent oxygen reverses muscle hypoxia in a rat hindlimb model of acute arterial occlusion. significant morbidity results from extremity ischemia after acute arterial occlusion. reestablishment of arterial flow is considered to be the ideal treatment, yet substantial tissue loss can occur before this is accomplished. using a rat hindlimb model we investigated whether the administration of 100% oxygen would decrease tissue hypoxia from acute arterial occlusion. adult male sprague-dawley rats were used, and po2 recordings were taken from the gastrocnemius muscle by use of an oxygen electrode. baseline muscle po2 was recorded, and then the femoral artery was occluded. repeat recordings were made after 20 minutes of ventilation with room air and after an additional 20 minutes of ventilation with 100% oxygen (n = 10). control groups consisted of animals undergoing occlusion but continued on room air (n = 3) and animals undergoing sham occlusion but receiving the period of 100% oxygen ventilation (n = 3). femoral artery occlusion produced a reduction in muscle po2 from 28.0 +/- 1.4 to 6.1 +/- 2.0 (mean +/- sem, p less than 0.001). ventilation with 100% oxygen reversed the tissue hypoxia produced by occlusion (27.3 +/- 2.0, p less than 0.001). the administration of 100% oxygen without femoral artery occlusion resulted in a higher tissue po2 than the occluded + oxygen group (94 +/- 12 vs 27.3 +/- 2.0, p less than 0.001). mean arterial blood pressure increased in the experimental group concomitant with the administration of 100% oxygen, but there was no correlation between final blood pressure and final tissue oxygen tension.
influence of hepatitis delta virus replication in the presence of hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. the presence of hepatitis b virus dna was studied in peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 259 hbsag carriers (229 anti-hepatitis delta negative, 30 anti-hepatitis delta positive), 16 anti-hbc-positive hbsag-negative patients and 30 patients without hepatitis b virus markers. hepatitis b virus dna sequences were detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 115 (44.4%) of the chronic hbsag carriers and from two (12%) of the anti-hbc-positive, hbsag-negative patients. in anti-hepatitis delta-negative patients, viral dna was positive in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 74 (46%) and from 24 (35.5%) with and without serum hbv-dna, respectively. with respect to anti-hepatitis delta-positive patients, viral dna was found in peripheral blood mononuclear cell in 8 of 13 (61.5%) of the patients with circulating hepatitis delta virus rna and in 9 of 17 (53%) of the hepatitis delta virus rna-negative subjects. regarding hepatitis b virus dna in serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cell, 71% (5 of 7) of the patients with serum hepatitis b virus dna had this marker in peripheral blood mononuclear cell, whereas 52% (12 of 23) of the patients without serum hepatitis b virus dna had hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell. a southern blot analysis was also carried out on peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 30 patients. hepatitis b virus dna was detected in 16 patients as free forms, in 12 patients as dimers and free forms and as free circular together with free linear forms in the remaining two patients.
altered expression of the retinoblastoma gene product in human sarcomas. background. the retinoblastoma-susceptibility (rb) gene is a prototype tumor-suppressor gene originally isolated from patients with heritable retinoblastoma. this gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein whose expression is altered in several types of human tumors. methods. we studied the expression of the rb protein in 44 primary and 12 metastatic high-grade human sarcomas by means of immunohistochemical methods and western blotting. computerized image analysis was used to quantify the level of rb gene product in individual tumor cells. the expression of the rb gene was then correlated with clinical outcome in the patients with primary tumors. results. of the 44 patients with primary sarcomas, 13 (30 percent) had tumors with normal, homogeneous expression of the rb protein in essentially all tumor cells. thirty-one patients with primary tumors (70 percent) had altered rb expression; in 18 (40 percent) the rb protein was heterogeneously expressed, and in 13 (30 percent) it was detected in fewer than 20 percent of the tumor cells. all 12 of the patients with metastatic sarcomas had altered expression of the rb protein. when the findings in the patients with primary tumors were correlated with clinical outcome, survival was found to be significantly increased in the patients whose tumors had homogeneous rb expression, as compared with those with either heterogeneous expression (p = 0.026) or no expression (p = 0.012). conclusions. tumors in which the expression of rb gene product was decreased were more aggressive than tumors in which this protein was expressed by nearly all cells. the rb gene product may be an important prognostic variable in patients with these tumors.
functional outcome measures in stroke rehabilitation. i examine statistical considerations in the analysis of functional outcome following stroke and discuss the mathematical relation between improvement in function and discharge functional score. i demonstrate mathematically that the predictor variables of improvement and discharge functional score are the same and that the regression coefficients for improvement and discharge functional score will be equal, except for the admission functional score, for which a mathematically defined relation exists. i argue that the relation between admission functional score and discharge functional score must be positive and strong and that the relation between admission functional score and improvement must be negative for the stroke population. i believe that an ignorance of statistical concepts, especially confounding, and of the differences between raw correlations, partial correlations, and predictors have led to much confusion in functional outcome research.
hemodynamic determinants of subdiaphragmatic venous return during closed-chest cpr in a canine cardiac arrest model. objective: to assess the hemodynamic determinates of peripheral subdiaphragmatic venous-to-right-heart return during closed-chest cpr. model: seven anesthetized dogs subjected to electrically induced ventricular fibrillation for five minutes. interventions: conventional closed-chest cpr and closed-chest cpr with continuous abdominal binding at a chest compression rate of 60 per minute, a compression-to-relaxation ratio of 50:50, and a ventilation-to-compression ratio of 1:5. methods: solid-state catheters were positioned in the ascending aorta, right atrium (ra), and inferior vena cava (ivc). cannulating electromagnetic flow probes were inserted into the ivc and a carotid artery. analog-to-digital conversion was performed electronically. five minutes after ventricular fibrillation was induced, interventions were performed in an alternating sequence. systolic, diastolic, and mean pressures and flows were measured and compared. statistical methods: two-tailed, unpaired t test applied to equal sample size, linear regression analysis, and multiple regression analysis. results: abdominal binding during cpr significantly increased (p less than .05) all measured systolic and diastolic cpr intravascular pressures compared with cpr without abdominal binding but did not affect ivc-to-right-heart venous return. during conventional cpr without abdominal binding, venous return was dependent on the diastolic ivc pressure (r = .86, p = .014), mean ivc pressure (r = .80, p = .03), and carotid blood flow (r = .99, p = .001) but not on the ivc-to-ra pressure gradient. with abdominal binding, venous return was not correlated with any study hemodynamic variable, including the peripheral venous-to-ra pressure gradient. conclusion: venous return from the subdiaphragmatic venous bed during cpr is dependent on venous pressure, not on the peripheral venous-to-right-heart pressure gradient. abdominal binding during cpr does not affect venous return. venous return during cpr diastole is highly dependent on central venous capacitance (left heart outflow during cpr systole).
bilateral familial carotid body paragangliomas. report of a case with dna flow cytometric and cytogenetic analyses. a case study of bilateral familial carotid body paragangliomas with dna flow cytometric and cytogenetic analyses is presented. analysis of tumor cell nuclear dna content by flow cytometry revealed aneuploid cell populations in both tumors. standard cytogenetic analysis (giemsa-banding technique used) of the right carotid body paraganglioma showed no evidence of numerical or structural abnormalities. we describe parameters currently used to "predict" biological behavior in these tumors.
visuospatial impairment in parkinson's disease. we explored the nature of the visuospatial deficit in parkinson's disease (pd) and its progression as a function of disease duration. we compared the performance of 183 patients with idiopathic pd and 90 control subjects matched for age and education on six visuospatial measures. we divided patients into three groups according to the disease duration: early (1 to 4 years), middle (5 to 10 years), and advanced (greater than 10 years). performance deteriorated in five of the six visuospatial measures, as a function of disease duration. however, the pattern of visuospatial decline depended on whether dementia was present. the results were not influenced by age or anticholinergic medication. these findings support the presence of visuospatial deficits in pd patients, with a changing pattern of impairment related to dementia and progression of the disease.
recurrent urethral stricture disease managed by clean intermittent self-catheterization. we studied 41 patients with urethral stricture who had failed at least 1 operation, and were being maintained with filiform and follower dilation every 6 to 12 weeks. the patients were instructed in clean intermittent self-catheterization with a 16f red rubber catheter, which was performed every 1 to 30 days. followup from 9 to 36 months revealed excellent compliance and average peak uroflow rates increased from 5.5 cc per second before dilation to 17.1 cc per second at the last followup visit. clean intermittent self-catheterization is a simple method to maintain a patent urethra and obviates the need for further operations or painful dilations.
long-term follow-up review of 31 children with severe closed head trauma. thirty-one children aged 3 to 15 years were followed for 5 to 11 years after suffering severe closed head trauma which caused coma for 1 week or more (median duration of coma 3 weeks). one patient remained in a persistent vegetative state until his death 9 years later. the other 30 recovered consciousness and were discharged. all suffered diminution of their abilities, and 24 of them had major permanent disability. the most common motor disabilities were pure spastic hemiparesis (seven cases), basal ganglia syndromes (four cases), ataxia (three cases), and a combination of hemiparesis and ataxia (five cases). of the 30 patients, 26 regained independent ambulation, seven were epileptic, and 14 were dysarthric in various degrees. only 10 had the cognitive ability to profit from the normal educational system, and none had attempted postsecondary education. social problems were common. the worst outcomes were associated with intracranial bleeding and/or brain contusion seen on computerized tomography (ct) scans at the acute stage; the best were associated with normal ct scans. the degree of residual disability in these children seems no less than that of adults with trauma of similar severity.
plaque and structural characteristics of the descending thoracic aorta using transesophageal echocardiography. the in vivo acoustic and structural characteristics of atherosclerosis in the descending thoracic aorta have not been well delineated. we prospectively evaluated the descending thoracic aorta of 147 patients (35 women and 112 men; age, 61 +/- 14 years) who underwent clinically indicated transesophageal echocardiography. patients with suspected disease of the aorta were excluded. thirty-eight patients (26%) had protruding plaques (men, 25%; women, 29%). six patients had mobile intimal densities with the mobile area ranging up to 1 cm2. as expected, aortic lumen area was decreased (plaque-free, 3.53 cm2; plaque, 3.19 cm2; p less than 0.05) and wall area was increased (plaque-free, 1.51 cm2; plaque, 1.92 cm2; p less than 0.05) in the regions of the plaque. however, total arterial area was not increased (plaque-free, 5.04 cm2; plaque, 5.09 cm2; difference not significant) in a compensatory manner as observed in other arterial beds. plaque gray scale was less than the gray scale of plaque-free wall (plaque-free, 141.2; plaque, 122.7; p less than 0.05) when compared at the same level of the descending thoracic aorta or with a second aortic plaque-free level (plaque-free, 150.4; plaque, 122.7; p less than 0.05). standard deviation of gray scale level was similar between plaque and normal regions. unsuspected protruding plaques in the descending thoracic aorta occurred in one quarter of the patients referred for routine transesophageal examination. plaques tended to have lower echogenicity and were differentiated from plaque-free walls within patients. plaque formation did not result in increased total arterial area. these data suggest that the degree or character of compensatory atherosclerotic remodeling in the highly elastic descending thoracic aorta may differ from other arterial beds.
the value of push-type jejunal endoscopy in familial adenomatosis coli/gardner's syndrome. push-type jejunal endoscopy using a long forward-viewing duodenofiberscope was performed in 10 patients with familial adenomatosis coli/gardner's syndrome. jejunal polypoid lesions were detected in nine of the 10 patients (90%). the lesions appeared sessile, whitish, and measured 3 mm or less in diameter. histologic findings of the biopsy specimens from these polypoid lesions revealed tubular adenoma in all nine patients. in addition, this method led to the detection of duodenal adenomas in one patient, in whom duodenofiberscopy with the side-viewing instrument revealed no polypoid lesions in the bulb and second portion of the duodenum. in view of these results, we recommend that push-type jejunal endoscopy, as well as side-viewing duodenofiberscopy, should be added to the usual preoperative examinations done in patients with this disease.
autologous antibodies eluted from membrane fragments in human ovarian epithelial neoplastic effusions. iii. cytotoxic potential in vitro and characterization of antigen(s). cyst and ascites fluids from patients with ovarian epithelial neoplasms contain immunoglobulins with antitumor activity. autologous antibodies bound to the cellular membrane fragments obtained from human ovarian neoplastic effusions react with cell-surface antigens on different human ovarian cell lines, surgical specimens of human ovarian adenocarcinoma, and human ovarian tumors grown in athymic balb/c mice. the antibodies do not react with tissue preparations from normal human ovaries, other nonovarian normal or neoplastic tissues, and nonovarian human cell lines. these studies indicate that these antibodies are capable of complement-mediated lysis of human ovarian tumor cell lines in vitro. preliminary characterization of the autologous ovarian tumor-associated antigen(s) indicates that it may be composed of three large-molecular-weight proteins of 182,000, 164,000, and 122,000 d.
postoperative ectopic craniopharyngioma. case report. the case of an ectopic craniopharyngioma arising from a seed of tissue deposited along the operative track is reported. the uniqueness of this lesion is addressed. ideal therapy and controversies regarding radiation therapy of craniopharyngiomas are discussed in light of this new variation in recurrence.
immunophenotyping in the management of gastric lymphoma. primary gastric lymphoma is a rare tumor in which surgical resection plays a major role in improving the response rate and reducing the incidence of bleeding and perforation after chemotherapy. in 17 consecutive patients, the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma was made by immunophenotyping snap-frozen endoscopic biopsy specimens. all neoplasms were b-cell lymphomas. pan b surface marker antigens were present in all patients. levels of ki-67, a nuclear marker of tumor proliferation, were greater than 45% in two of the four patients who died after progression of their lymphoma. all patients alive had ki-67 levels of less than 30%. a lower proliferation index, as measured by ki-67, appears to be associated with better prognosis. ten of 11 patients treated by resection prior to chemotherapy had no complications. immunophenotyping is the key in the differential diagnosis when considering malignant lymphoma with gastric carcinoma and benign conditions such as pseudolymphoma.
ultrasonographic diagnosis of a large placental intervillous thrombosis associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level. a placental lesion associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level and a positive kleihauer-betke test is reported. serial ultrasonograms showed a progressive increase in the echogenicity of the lesion that corresponded to a large intervillous thrombosis after delivery. this case illustrates the importance of detailed ultrasonographic and pathologic placental investigations in pregnancies with unexplained elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein.
questionable role of cns radioprophylaxis in the therapeutic management of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma with meningeal extension. a series of 15 consecutive children with head and neck nonorbital rhabdomyosarcoma (rmsa) with meningeal extension were prospectively treated with chemotherapy consisting of adriamycin (doxorubicin; adria laboratory, columbus, oh) (adm), vincristine (vcr), cyclophosphamide (cpm), and dactinomycin (dact) followed by radiotherapy (60 gy) to the primary tumor volume, along with intrathecal methotrexate (it mtx). thirteen of 15 responded to preradiation chemotherapy. four of 13 relapsed. relapse occurred at the level of the primary tumor in three of four. the 3-year progression-free survival (pfs) was 59%, similar to that achieved in a previous series treated with a comparable therapeutic approach that also included whole-brain radiotherapy as a prophylaxis of possible occult meningeal seeding. it is concluded that cns prophylaxis with radiotherapy is questionable in the management of childhood rmsa with meningeal extension.
expression of beta 1 integrins in normal human keratinocytes. the majority of cell adhesive events to the extracellular matrix are mediated by cell surface receptors, beta 1 integrins. keratinocytes express at least six different polypeptides of beta 1 integrin class, namely beta 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 5, and alpha 6 (alpha 6 is mainly associated with beta 4 polypeptide). these epithelial cells use alpha 2 beta 1 as a collagen receptor and alpha 3 beta 1 as a fibronectin receptor, while alpha 6 beta 4 is the major basement membrane receptor. expression of alpha 5 beta 1 complex is low. processing of beta 1 integrins is fast in keratinocytes; half-maximal maturation takes only 3 hours. in addition to their function in cell-matrix interactions, beta 1 integrins (alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1) have also a role in maintaining keratinocyte cell-cell interactions. it is possible that resting basal keratinocytes use beta 1 integrins as cell-cell adhesion receptors, and during activation, like in wound healing, these receptors relocalize to mediate events involving cell-matrix interactions.
long-term efficacy of primary laser trabeculoplasty. sixty glaucomatous eyes of 60 patients treated with laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy were reviewed retrospectively. there were 42 eyes with capsular glaucoma and 18 with simple glaucoma. the mean prelaser intraocular pressure (iop) was 35.2 (sd = 6.5) mmhg. success was defined as iop less than or equal to 22 mmhg without medication. the probability of success was 0.73 at 1 year, 0.66 at 2 years, 0.57 at 3 years, and 0.50 at 4 years. three eyes experienced progressive visual field loss or disc damage in spite of an intraocular pressure below 22 mmhg without medication. high prelaser pressure and the severity of the visual field defects were significant predictors of treatment failure.
cluster of fulminant hepatitis b in crack users. fulminant hepatitis occurs in only 1% of acute hepatitis b patients, requiring hospitalization, but coinfection with delta virus increases the incidence. hepatitis b and d infection are commonly associated with intravenous drug abuse, but there have been no previous reports of an association with nonparenteral cocaine. crack use, via sexual promiscuity, is associated with an increased risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection, but has never been associated with viral hepatitis. we report four fatal cases of fulminant hepatitis b including, one with delta virus coinfection and one with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, in young, sexually active, heterosexual crack users. these patients denied a history of intravenous drug abuse. our patients probably contracted hepatitis b infection via heterosexual contact. chronic cocaine exposure may or may not have contributed to the fulminant outcome. crack users may be at increased risk of developing hepatitis b and d infection. epidemiological studies are needed to evaluate their risk of viral hepatitis and the effect of cocaine on its outcome.
oxygen uptake and heart rate responses during hypoxic exercise in children and adults. control of ventilation and heart rate during exercise appears to undergo maturation, while aerobic metabolism (vo2) may not. since we had previously found that hypoxia during exercise produced different ventilatory responses in children (c) compared to adults (a), we hypothesized that vo2 and heart rate kinetics during exercise would show similar maturational responses to hypoxia. to test this hypothesis, we examined the responses during progressive (ramp) and constant work rate tests in children and adults breathing either room air or hypoxic gas (fio2 = 0.15). when corrected for body weight, children and adults had similar values for lactic acidosis threshold (lat) (c: 29.1 +/- 5.0 ml.min-1.kg-1; a: 27.9 +/- 4.3) and vo2max (c: 40.7 +/- 8.6 ml.min-1.kg-1; a: 45.2 +/- 6.7) during normoxia. hypoxia significantly lowered lat (c: 27.5 +/- 5.4 ml.min-1.kg-1; a: 23.2 +/- 3.8; both p less than 0.05) and vo2max (c: 37.7 +/- 8.3 ml.min-1.kg-1; a: 40.1 +/- 5.3; both p less than 0.05) in both children and adults. metabolic efficiency (delta vo2/delta work rate) and the vo2-heart rate relationship (delta vo2/delta hr/kg) were similar in the two groups and unaffected by hypoxia. during the constant work rate exercise, vo2 kinetics (time constant during phase 2 of the response (pi 1) and the o2 deficit) were similar between children and adults and were significantly slowed by hypoxia, consistent with current understanding of the control of oxidative metabolism. finally, heart rate was increased at rest and during exercise with hypoxia, while the time to reach 75% of the end-exercise response was delayed significantly, in both groups.
cutaneous horn of the penis: its association with squamous cell carcinoma and hpv-16 infection. cutaneous horns of the penis are rare. including this case, only 19 cases have been reported in the english-language literature. in 37% of the reported cases a malignant tumor was found beneath the cutaneous horn. our case is remarkable because a stage i squamous cell carcinoma developed on the shaft of the penis of a neonatally circumcised man. human genital carcinoma resulting from a multifactorial process in which "promoting" papillomavirus is an integral element is being increasingly reported. we review the relationship of circumcision to genital human papillomavirus infection and their synergism in the development of squamous cell carcinoma.
hypertension with concomitant conditions: the changing role of beta-adrenoceptor blockade. hypertension often is associated with concomitant conditions such as chronic obstructive lung disease, diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, and peripheral vascular disease. moreover, other cardiovascular risk factors, including dyslipidemias and abnormalities of glucose and insulin metabolism, are common in patients with hypertension. conventional beta-blockers used for antihypertensive therapy can have adverse effects in patients with airway disease, diabetes, and peripheral vascular disease, and can exaggerate the other risk factors. newer beta-blockers such as celiprolol, which have selective partial agonist activity expressed at beta 2-receptors, appear to avoid these problems. celiprolol exhibits antianginal and antihypertensive efficacy without adversely effecting left ventricular systolic function or exercise performance. it also may cause regression of left ventricular hypertrophy. the stimulatory action of celiprolol on vascular beta 2-receptors enhances regional flow and may increase walking distance in patients with claudication. the reduction in renal vascular resistance demonstrated by this drug is associated with preservation of renal blood flow and function. spirometric measurements of airway function are unchanged during celiprolol treatment. similarly, there are no adverse effects on lipid or glucose concentrations. these new developments in beta-blocker pharmacology indicate that this class of agents could be used in patients with hypertension with concomitant diseases or risk factors other than high blood pressure.
human t cell lymphotropic virus infection in guaymi indians from panama. preliminary studies found that 9% of guaymi indians from bocas del toro province have antibody to human t cell lymphotropic virus (htlv-i/ii). the present study enrolled 317 (21% of the population) guaymi indians from changuinola, the capital of bocas del toro province and 333 (70% of the population) from canquintu, an isolated rural village. demographic information and family relationships were ascertained and subjects were screened for neurologic diseases. serum specimens were screened by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for htlv-i/ii antibody and positives were confirmed according to u.s. public health service criteria. twenty-five (8%) guaymi residing in changuinola and 7 (2.1%) from canquintu were confirmed seropositive. in changuinola, antibody was virtually limited to residents greater than or equal to 15 years of age (24 [16%] of 153) and rates were slightly higher in males than in females; in canquintu, antibody rates did not increase significantly with age and appeared higher in females than in males. in changuinola, there was no evidence for household clustering of infection. in contrast, htlv antibody among canquintu residents clustered significantly by household. htlv-associated neurologic disease was not detected in either population. the atypical seroepidemiology observed in both locations might be explained if the virus endemic to the guaymi differed from htlv-i previously described in the caribbean basin and japan.
significance of anti-hbx antibodies in hepatitis b virus infection. serological responses to hepatitis b virus-x determinants have been noted in human sera, but conflicting findings concerning the correlation of anti-hbx antibodies with different stages of hepatitis b virus infection or pathological sequelae have been reported. using an adenovirus-based eukaryotic vector, the 17 kd x protein was efficiently expressed in 293 cells. cellular extracts containing the eukaryotic x protein have been used to screen for anti-hbx antibodies by immunoblot analysis in a large panel of sera from patients affected by hepatitis b virus chronic hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute viral hepatitis. sera from 32 of 171 (19%) chronic hepatitis b virus patients were positive for anti-hbx antibodies. only one of thirty-two (3%) hbsag-negative, anti-hbs/anti-hbc-positive chronic hepatitis serum was anti-hbx positive. very few sera from primary hepatocellular carcinoma patients showed positivity for anti-hbx (8 of 149 or 5%). anti-hbx were also detected in 8 of 48 (17%) acute viral hepatitis patients. in the four cases that were followed up weekly, anti-hbx antibodies appeared 3 to 4 wk after the onset of the clinical signs. to compare the x protein expressed in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells as a substrate for anti-hbx antibody detection, 171 sera were screened with hbx fusion proteins expressed in escherichia coli. the prokaryotic cell extract test seems to be more sensitive. during the chronic phase of hepatitis b virus infection, the presence of anti-hbx antibodies detected with the eukaryotic cell extract correlates with the presence of well-established markers of ongoing viral replication: serum hepatitis b virus-dna (p less than 0.001) and intrahepatic hbcag expression (p less than 0.001).
pulmonary vascular steal in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, performed for relief of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, perfusion lung scans have frequently disclosed new perfusion defects in segments served by undissected pulmonary arteries. our hypotheses were that these new postoperative defects occurred with great frequency and did not represent postoperative vessel occlusion. we retrospectively reviewed the preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of 33 consecutive patients undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. new postoperative perfusion defects were noted in 23 of 33 patients. the incidence of new defects was increased tenfold in segments that had (1) normal preoperative angiographic findings, (2) normal preoperative radionuclide perfusion, and (3) not been entered at the time of surgery. postoperative angiograms, available in 15 of 33 patients, documented the nonembolic, nonocclusive nature of the new perfusion scan defects. the most plausible alternate explanation for this previously undescribed finding is a redistribution of pulmonary arterial resistance induced by the thromboendarterectomy, namely, a pulmonary vascular "steal.".
two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis due to hypercalcemia. we report two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia. after sudden onset of epigastralgia, acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia were found in both patients. there were no diseases that could explain the acute pancreatitis except for hypercalcemia probably due to adult t-cell leukemia. thus we considered that hypercalcemia due to adult t-cell leukemia had led to acute pancreatitis. this is the first report of such a complication in adult t-cell leukemia.
evolution of energy expenditure and nitrogen excretion in severe head-injured patients. objective: the aim of the study was to estimate the influence of therapeutic changes on the level of energy expenditure (ee) and n excretion in a homogeneous group of patients usually considered hypermetabolic. design: ee and n excretion of head-injured patients were measured simultaneously at phases 1 and 2 (patients treated 4 +/- 3 and 18 +/- 8 days after injury, respectively). setting: acute care hospital. patients: eight severe head-injured patients, mean weight 63.1 +/- 6.1 (sd) kg, mean age 21 +/- 3.8 (sd) yr. interventions: at phase 1, all patients were sedated with fentanyl (6.7 +/- 1.9 micrograms/kg.hr) plus flunitrazepam (9.1 +/- 4.8 micrograms/kg.hr) and were mechanically ventilated. all patients received continuous total parenteral nutrition. the nonprotein caloric intake averaged 1092 +/- 200 kcal/day, including 77% glucose and 23% fat (intralipid 20%). the total n intake averaged 7 +/- 5 g/day, consisting of crystalline amino acids. at phase 2, no patient received any sedative and all were breathing spontaneously via tracheostomy. all patients received parenteral and/or enteral nutrition. the nonprotein caloric intake averaged 1929 +/- 200 kcal/day consisting of 65% carbohydrates and 35% fat. the total n intake averaged 13 +/- 2 g/day. measurements and main results: the ee was significantly higher at phase 2 than at phase 1 (2121 vs. 1737 kcal), but the interindividual variability was low at both phases. n excretion was high at the two periods of the study and not correlated to the level of ee. the rq was 0.75 at both periods, indicating predominant fat oxidation. conclusions: we could not demonstrate any parallelism in the evolution of ee and protein catabolism in head-injured patients. the therapeutics (mechanical ventilation, sedation, and nutrition) have a major effect on ee but little on n excretion.
role of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy for clinical stage b2 prostate cancer. to examine the role of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in patients with clinical stage b2 prostate cancer we reviewed the first 77 such patients in our series since we adopted the nerve-sparing technique. a total of 47 patients (61%) underwent bilateral and 26 (34%) underwent unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy, while in 4 (5%) both neurovascular bundles were resected. among the patients followed for 12 months 27 of 41 (66%) treated with bilateral and 7 of 19 (37%) treated with unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy had potency preserved. with the strict clinicopathological criteria of organ-confined tumor, that is intracapsular tumor with negative surgical margins and undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels, complete tumor excision was achieved in 17 patients (36%) treated with bilateral and 7 of 26 (27%) treated with unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy. all patients in whom both neurovascular bundles were resected had pathological stage c or d1 disease. of the 24 patients who had complete tumor excision by the strict criteria only 15 (19.5% of the 77 preoperatively potent patients) had potency preserved. of these patients 19 had microscopically positive margins without seminal vesicle invasion (pathological stage c1) with undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels. in addition, 4 patients had seminal vesicle involvement with negative surgical margins and undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels. if these patients also are considered as having complete tumor excision, there was an over-all complete tumor excision rate of 61% (47 of 77), of whom 25 (32% of the 77 patients) had preservation of potency. ten patients with clinical stage b2 tumor whose potency was preserved had histological and serological evidence of incomplete tumor excision. of 53 patients with pathological stage c1 disease 9 (17%) had margins positive only in the regions of the neurovascular bundles. preoperative prostate specific antigen and acid phosphatase levels, and findings on transrectal ultrasonography failed to predict accurately which patients had extracapsular tumor extension. patients with poorly differentiated tumors and/or bulky disease on rectal examination had a higher incidence of extracapsular extension and positive margins. we conclude that in the majority of potent patients with clinical stage b2 prostate cancer not all of the goals of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy are realized.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
macrophages stimulate bone resorption when they phagocytose particles. we investigated in vitro a mechanism by which particulate debris may induce bone resorption and cause implant loosening. we first studied two standard particles: latex, which is considered to be inert, and zymosan, which is inflammatory. macrophages that phagocytosed either particle became activated, and stimulated 15 times as much bone resorption as did control macrophages. for activation to occur, 100 times more latex than zymosan had to be phagocytosed. we also found that bone cement and polyethylene particles activated macrophages in a similar manner, and that the necessary amounts of these were intermediate between those of latex and zymosan. none of the particles were toxic. it was concluded that implant loosening may result from bone resorption stimulated by mediators released by macrophages that have phagocytosed particles of bone cement or polyethylene.
exercise echocardiography and technetium-99m mibi single-photon emission computed tomography in the detection of coronary artery disease. to compare the relative diagnostic value of exercise echocardiography with perfusion technetium-99m metoxyisobutylisonitrile single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) in detecting coronary artery disease (cad), 75 patients with suspected cad but a normal electrocardiogram (ecg) at rest were included in a prospective correlative study. both the exercise echocardiograms and spect studies were performed in conjunction with the same symptom-limited bicycle exercise test. the development of either a new wall motion abnormality or a reversible perfusion defect after exercise, or both, were regarded as a positive test for the exercise echocardiographic and spect studies, respectively. the results of these 2 diagnostic tests were compared with coronary arteriography. exercise echocardiography identified 35 (71%) and spect 41 (84%, p = 0.13) of the 49 patients with significant cad (defined as greater than 50% diameter stenosis). twenty-five of the 26 patients (96%) without significant coronary stenosis had negative exercise echocardiographic results and 23 of 26 (88%) had negative spect results. exercise-induced new wall motion abnormalities showed a good correlation with reversible perfusion defects, and the results of the 2 methods were concordant in 65 of 75 patients (agreement = 88%, kappa = 0.75 +/- 0.14). both the diagnostic accuracy of exercise echocardiography and spect were significantly higher than the exercise ecg (81 vs 64%, p less than 0.02 and 88 vs 64%, p less than 0.005). the sensitivity and specificity for detecting individual diseased vessels were 60 and 95% for exercise echocardiography and 67 and 94% for spect.
transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. a grade 4/6 systolic murmur, systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (sam), and severe mitral regurgitation (mr) documented by two-dimensional doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension. the patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure. this could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure.
acute hypervolaemia increases gastroduodenal resistance to the flow of liquid in the rat. the effect of volume expansion of extracellular fluid on gastroduodenal resistance to the flow of isotonic saline was assessed in three groups of rats using intravenous infusions of isotonic, isotonic-isoncotic, and isotonic-isoncotic-isohaemic solutions. the gastroduodenal segment of 29 male wistar rats was barostatically perfused at a constant pressure gradient of 4 cm h2o and changes in flow (ml/minute) were taken as a reflection of changes in gastroduodenal resistance. isotonic expansion led to a 33% drop in gastroduodenal flow compared with the normovolaemic period in the same animals (p less than 0.01). extracellular fluid expansion with isotonic-isoncotic and isotonic-isoncotic-isohaemic solutions was associated with reductions in gastroduodenal flow of 29% (p less than 0.05) and 31% (p less than 0.01) respectively. the increase in gastroduodenal resistance is due to hypervolaemia per se and not to haemodilution, decreases in plasma oncotic pressure, or electrolyte imbalance. the effect of hypervolaemia on gastroduodenal resistance, which was reversed by small haemorrhages (0.5-1.0 ml per 100 g body weight), may be due to changes in tonus or phasic motor activity, or both, and may be part of the homeostatic processes that help the organism minimise liquid volume excess.
final height in boys with untreated constitutional delay in growth and puberty. to determine the natural history and psychological impact of the growth pattern in boys with constitutional delay in growth and puberty (cdgp), 43 boys presenting with short stature due to cdgp were followed up to final height. at presentation mean (sd) chronological age was 14.0 (1.9) years, bone age delay 2.7 (1.0) years, standing height standard deviation score (sds) -3.4 (0.6), and predicted adult height sds -1.3 (0.7). final adult height sds was -1.6 (0.9), measured at 21.2 (2.6) years. there was no significant difference between final height and predicted adult height, but there was a significant difference between final height and measured mid-parental height. psychological questionnaires showed no significant difference in self esteem, marital, or employment state between the cdgp group and a control group. there was no correlation between self esteem and final height, but 25 felt their growth delay had affected their success either at school, work, or socially and 20 would rather have had treatment to advance their growth spurt. this study supports the more frequent use of active medical treatment to advance growth in boys with cdgp, and shows that although boys with cdgp reach their predicted heights, this is short for their families.
paraesthesia with lumbar epidural catheters. a comparison of air and saline in a loss-of-resistance technique. the epidural space was located in 32 obstetric patients using loss of resistance to air, while in a further 35 saline was used. the incidence of paraesthesia was 56% in the air group and 57% in the saline group. there was no significant difference between the groups in terms of other complications or in the quality of analgesia provided.
effects of mk-801 on recovery from sensorimotor cortex lesions. histologic evidence suggests that drugs acting as noncompetitive antagonists at the n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor can have beneficial or pathologic effects on central nervous system neurons. in the present experiments we examined the effects of mk-801 on recovery of behavioral function after unilateral lesions in the rat somatic sensorimotor cortex. in the first experiment, rats with unilateral sensorimotor cortex lesions were given either mk-801 (1 mg/kg) or saline 12-16 hours after surgery. additional injections were given on postoperative days 2, 4, and 6. behavioral tests measured somatosensory asymmetries (i.e., bilateral tactile stimulation tests) and forelimb placing. after creation of sensorimotor cortex lesions, rats showed an ipsilateral somatosensory bias and an impairment in placing the contralateral forelimb. rats treated with mk-801 recovered slightly faster than saline-treated animals as measured by a bilateral tactile stimulation test (p less than 0.05). in contrast, there was no significant difference between the groups in the recovery of forelimb placing. in a second experiment, rats with sensorimotor cortex lesions were treated with a single injection of mk-801 after behavioral recovery. twenty hours after the mk-801 injection, rats with sensorimotor cortex lesions showed a reinstatement of the placing deficits. the impairment endured for at least 7 days after injection. these behavioral data support the idea that mk-801 can have either beneficial or detrimental effects when administered after brain damage.
spinal extradural cavernous hemangioma. three cases of isolated spinal extradural cavernous hemangiomas are reported, two in the thoracic and one in the lumbar region. one of them manifested as acute cord compression, the other two as chronic progressive myelopathy or radiculopathy. a total excision or subtotal excision with irradiation was performed. all of them had good functional recovery. the clinical picture, radiological diagnosis, and optimal method of treatment are discussed. the relevant literature is reviewed.
cerebral infarction: early detection by means of contrast-enhanced cerebral arteries at mr imaging. the authors describe a new magnetic resonance (mr) imaging sign of acute cerebral ischemia/infarction. abnormally contrast material-enhanced curvilinear structures were demonstrated in eight patients in the evolving area of cerebral ischemia/infarction within 26 hours after the ictus on contrast-enhanced, high-field-strength (1.5-t), t1-weighted spin-echo images. the abnormal enhancement is considered to represent cortical arterial vessels of markedly slowed circulation in areas of underlying brain injury, which will eventually progress to frank brain infarction. this was demonstrated at computed tomographic (ct) and follow-up mr examinations. characteristically, the degree of the contrast enhancement of vessels appeared most intense in the proximal portions, and the intensity of enhancement gradually diminished in the more distal portions of these vessels as they pass over the convexities and finally disappear.
characterization of a rat pancreatic secretory protein associated with pancreatitis. a new protein was purified from the pancreatic juice of rats with acute pancreatitis. that protein, not detectable in control animals, was called "pancreatitis-associated protein." it was first observed 6 hours after induction of experimental pancreatitis with taurocholate or cerulein, reached maximal levels of 45 micrograms/mg protein in zymogen granules and 1.8 micrograms/mg protein in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase (48 hours), and disappeared during recovery (day 5). it was never detected in spleen, liver, kidney, heart, or lung. the detection limit of the assay system was 12 ng/mg protein, so that pancreatitis-associated protein levels increased at least 100-fold in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase. the molecular weight (12,000) and isoelectric point (8.2) were determined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. subcellular fractionation and immunoelectron microscopy showed that the protein was synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum and stored in zymogen granules before being secreted, similar to other pancreatic secretory proteins. immunoblotting and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the same protein was synthesized upon induction of pancreatitis by cerulein infusion, by retrograde injection of bile acids, or pancreatitis induced by pancreatic surgery. the pancreatitis-associated protein is therefore an acute-phase protein that differs from other proteins of that family because of its exocrine nature.
outpatient management of burns in children. the majority of burn wound management can be performed on an outpatient basis by the primary care physician or emergency physician. the physician, however, needs to know when to refer the patient for surgical evaluation and must be reasonably certain that the family will be compliant with wound care and follow-up. fire prevention counselling still remains one of the most important aspects of burn management.
admission and mid-stay medisgroups scores as predictors of death within 30 days of hospital admission. we examined the ability of medisgroups, a severity measure based on clinical data abstracted from the medical record, to predict mortality 30 days following admission. medisgroups measures severity both on admission and approximately one week into the hospital stay. the data base was a random sample of 20,985 admissions of medicare beneficiaries with one of six conditions from 833 hospitals in seven states between january 1985 and may 1986. in all six conditions, higher admission and mid-stay severity scores were generally associated with higher risk of death. across the six conditions, the r-squared values for predicting death using admission scores ranged from 0.01 to 0.16; r-squared values using mid-stay scores ranged from 0.03 to 0.34; and r-squared values from combining admission and mid-stay scores ranged from 0.05 to 0.41. admission medisgroups score was thus only modestly predictive of 30-day mortality. while the mid-stay score was more powerful, it may not be an appropriate severity adjuster to screen for quality using hospital mortality rates because it could be influenced by substandard care.
comparison of spect using technetium-99m agents and thallium-201 and pet for the assessment of myocardial perfusion and viability. this report reviews the applications of tomographic imaging with current and new tracers in assessing myocardial perfusion and viability. multiple studies with thallium-201 (ti-201) single photon emission computed tomography (spect) imaging for the detection of coronary artery disease (cad) have demonstrated high sensitivity, high rates of normalcy and high reproducibility. in assessing viability, fixed defects are frequently detected in viable zones in 4-hour studies with ti-201 imaging. redistribution imaging performed 18 to 72 hours after injection or reinjection of ti-201 before 4-hour redistribution imaging has been shown to improve accuracy of viability assessment. ti-201 spect studies are limited by the suboptimal physical properties of ti-201, which result in variable image quality. the 2 new technetium-99m (tc-99m) - labeled myocardial perfusion tracers offer the ability to inject much higher amounts of radioactivity, making it possible to assess ventricular function as well as myocardial perfusion from the same injection of radiotracer. tc-99m sestamibi has very slow myocardial clearance, which allows for prolonged imaging time and results in image quality superior to that obtained with ti-201 and tc-99m teboroxime. the combination of minimal redistribution of tc-99m sestamibi and high count rates makes gated spect imaging feasible, and also permits assessment of patients with acute ischemic syndromes by uncoupling the time of injection from the time of imaging. the combination of high image quality and first-pass exercise capabilities may lead to a choice of this agent over ti-201 for assessment of chronic cad.
clinical and instrumental evaluation of sensory function before and after percutaneous anterolateral cordotomy at cervical level in man. sensory perception thresholds were assessed by clinical testing and by quantitative instrumental testing before and after operation in 16 subjects for whom unilateral percutaneous cervical cordotomy was performed for the relief of pain due to malignant disease, and compared with clinical assessments of sensory function. we were able to confirm the association between deficit in pin-prick sensation and pain relief in the majority of instances, though the completeness or otherwise of pain relief does not correspond to absence of pin-prick sensation. there is no objective interference with low threshold mechanical sensation as measured instrumentally, although cordotomised subjects do not experience startle, tickle, or cutaneous erotic sensation when subjected to appropriate low intensity tactile sensation. quantitative instrumental testing shows that the greatest deficits produced by cordotomy are in the sensations of skinfold pinch (? = tissue-damage pain) and skin cooling. the latter is transduced in the periphery by a delta fibres; sensations of warmth and hot pain, transduced by primary afferent c fibres, are much less significantly affected. our findings thus fail to resolve the question as to whether chronic clinical pain is mainly an a delta- or a c fibre-mediated phenomenon.
splicing defect at the ornithine aminotransferase (oat) locus in gyrate atrophy. gyrate atrophy (ga), a recessive eye disease involving progressive vision loss due to chorioretinal degeneration, is associated with the deficiency of the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase (oat), with consequent hyperornithinemia. we and others have reported a number of missense mutations at the oat locus which result in ga. here we report a ga patient of danish/swedish ancestry in whom one oat allele produces an mrna that is missing a single 96-bp exon relative to the normal mrna. polymerase-chain-reaction amplification and sequencing revealed a 9-bp deletion covering the splice acceptor region of exon 5, resulting in the absence of exon 5 sequences from the mrna with no disruption to the reading frame. this mutation, which was not present in 15 other independent ga patients, adds to the array of allelic heterogeneity observed in ga and represents the first example of a splicing mutation associated with this disorder.
results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy. the results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical, radiographic, and isokinetic strength-testing criteria. forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied. in the extremity that had been operated on, the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent, the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent, and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity. the over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients, good in eleven, fair in six, and poor in three. there was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome. the results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures.
inability to demonstrate physiologic correlates of subjective improvement among patients taught the relaxation response. objective: to assess whether the regular elicitation of the relaxation response produces sustained physiologic changes coincident with symptomatic relief or improved psychological state. design: prospective, cohort pilot study. setting: clinical research center within a teaching hospital. patients: thirteen athletic men, mean age 44.8 years, with borderline or labile hypertension, taking no medication. all 13 completed the study. interventions: three baseline assessments of psychological state, symptom checklist, and assessment of autonomic response to infusion of beta agonist (isoproterenol). daily relaxation response exercises for five consecutive weeks followed by repeat assessment of all parameters. discontinuation of relaxation exercises for subsequent five weeks followed by repeat assessment of all parameters. measurements and main results: after eliciting the relaxation response, subjects demonstrated significant decreases in anxiety (p less than 0.014) and somatic symptoms (p less than 0.02). psychological and somatic variables returned toward baseline after the subsequent discontinuation of relaxation exercises. no significant concomitant change in urinary catecholamines, heart rate response to isoproterenol, blood pressure, pulse rate, or serum cholesterol was demonstrated. conclusion: the regular elicitation of the relaxation response can improve psychological performance and reduce symptoms. however, the physiologic mechanism whereby these psychological and symptomatic improvements occur remains poorly understood and warrants further investigation.
a palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax, head and neck: bazex's syndrome and tripe palm. an unusual, persistent, corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy. this combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities: bazex's syndrome and tripe palm. this paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor, the site of metastatic disease, and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor. in our patient, a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails. recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor. the characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report.
possible etiologic heterogeneity of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. a correlation of pathologic characteristics with human papillomavirus detection by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. a correlated histopathologic and molecular virologic study of 30 cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 (vin 3) and six associated invasive vulvar carcinomas was performed. paraffin sections were examined for human papillomavirus (hpv) types 6, 11, 16, and 18 by in situ hybridization for viral transcripts and by polymerase chain reaction (pcr) for amplification of hpv and of the beta-globin gene. vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 was histologically subclassified into warty (bowenoid) (20 cases) and basaloid (undifferentiated) (ten cases) types. warty vin characteristically was composed of squamous cells displaying abnormal proliferation and maturation and an undulating or spiked surface creating a "condylomatous" appearance whereas basaloid vin had a smooth surface and was composed of undifferentiated basaloid cells resembling carcinoma in situ of the cervix. human papillomavirus-16 was the only type detected in 16 of 30 vin 3 and in five of six invasive carcinomas. the hpv-positive women were younger than hpv-negative women (mean age at diagnosis, 49 versus 60 years), their lesions more frequently demonstrated koilocytotic atypia (94% versus 43%), and they were more likely to have warty compared with basaloid vin lesions (65% versus 30%). these findings suggest that there are at least two different types of vin which have differing clinical, pathologic, and viral profiles.
fetal homotransplants (ventral mesencephalon and adrenal tissue) to the striatum of parkinsonian subjects. fetal ventral mesencephalon and fetal adrenal tissue grafted to the caudate nucleus of four and three parkinsonian patients, respectively, have been shown to be an alternative treatment for the amelioration of the signs of the disease. the ventral mesencephalon patients had a significant amelioration of rigidity, bradykinesia, postural imbalance, gait disturbance, and facial expression. three of these four patients have returned to work. the fatal adrenal group only showed amelioration of rigidity and bradykinesia. though these patients are now able to perform their basic daily living activities, and one of them has renewed her household tasks, the other two have not yet been able to return to work. the differences observed between the ventral mesencephalon- and the fetal adrenal-transplanted patients may be related to the heterogeneity of their disease and/or the type of graft implanted. however encouraging our results may be, this experimental procedure obviously requires further studies, and should not be practiced outside of highly qualified clinical research centers.
infectious intracranial aneurysms: comparison of groups with and without endocarditis. a series of 12 patients with infectious intracranial aneurysms is presented, and a number of unusual features of the disorder are emphasized. a comparison of characteristics of the aneurysms and clinical course is made between patients with and without infective endocarditis. most of the unusual characteristics of infectious aneurysms, including rare locations, causative organisms, and predisposing medical conditions, occurred in the group without endocarditis. the relationship of atypical features of infectious aneurysms to the etiology of aneurysm formation is discussed, and an approach to treatment is presented.
intrathoracic current flow during transthoracic defibrillation in dogs. transcardiac current fraction. to achieve transcardiac threshold current during transthoracic defibrillation, a considerably larger current must be delivered to the thorax to compensate for the shunting effect of the lungs, the thoracic cage, and other elements of the torso. this shunting effect is thus an important determinant of transthoracic defibrillation threshold and can be quantified by the transcardiac current fraction (fc, the ratio of transcardiac to transthoracic threshold currents). previous estimates of fc have ranged from as low as 3% to as high as 45%. the purpose of of this study was to quantify both fc and the major intrathoracic current pathways. transthoracic and intrathoracic voltages and currents were simultaneously measured during high-voltage transthoracic shocks in 20 dogs. with correction factors determined from another set of 12 dogs, these raw data were corrected to compensate for field distortion caused by the presence of the intrathoracic electrodes, and the adjusted data were fit to a resistive network model. the results showed that 82% of the transthoracic current was shunted by the thoracic cage, while 14% was shunted by the lungs. the remaining 4% (fc) is the portion that passed through the heart. there was good agreement between the two independent methods used to calculate fc. analysis based on the model indicated that fc was 3.7%, whereas fc determined by direct measurement with calibrated electrodes was 4.2%. therefore, the results of this study, in contrast to earlier estimates of fc, show that defibrillation in dogs is achieved by only 4% of the total transthoracic current.
left ventricular end-systolic stress-volume index ratio in aortic and mitral regurgitation with normal ejection fraction. to evaluate the left ventricular contractile state in regurgitant valvular disease with normal ejection fraction, we analyzed the end-systolic stress-volume index relationship (essvr) by means of cineangiography in 15 normal subjects, 11 patients with aortic regurgitation (ar), and 10 patients with mitral regurgitation (mr) whose ejection fraction (ef) was 60% or more. the end-systolic stress-volume index ratio in normal subjects was 5.57 +/- 0.60 kdyne/cm5/m2 (mean +/- standard deviation), and we defined the range including +/- 2 standard deviations of the ratio as the normal essvr range. six patients with ar and five patients with mr placed inside the normal essvr range, termed ar in and mr in, but the remaining five patients with ar and mr placed to the right of the normal range, termed ar out and mr out. ef did not differ between patients with ar in and ar out (69.4 +/- 5.4 verus 70.7 +/- 6.1%) and between mr in and mr out (71.6 +/- 3.6 versus 71.1 +/- 7.9%). the ef of the subdivided groups with ar and mr also did not differ from that of normal subjects (70.7 +/- 7.3%). this finding showed that the left ventricular contractile state was depressed in patients with ar out and mr out despite a normal ef. in ar and mr the end-systolic stress and end-systolic volume index of out did not differ from those of in, but the end-diastolic volume index of out was larger than that of in (ar out 156.8 +/- 27.9 versus ar in 110.8 +/- 24.1 ml/m2, mr out 160.5 +/- 44.7 versus mr in 101.0 +/ 16.6 ml/m2; both p less than 0.05), and the regurgitant fraction of out was higher than that of in (ar out 52.6 +/- 13.6 versus ar in 29.7 +/- 13.3%, mr out 52.9 +/- 10.2 versus mr in 30.2 +/- 11.4%; both p less than 0.05). in addition, there was a linear inverse correlation between the end-systolic stress-volume index ratio and the end-diastolic volume index in all subjects (r = -0.82, n = 36). in normal subjects there was a linear inverse correlation between end-systolic stress and the ef (r = -0.91, n = 15), but this relationship failed to separate patients with out from those with in. results of the present study suggest that some patients with ar and mr whose ef was normal had a depressed contractile state, and these patients had a large end-diastolic volume index and a high regurgitant fraction.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
isovolumic hemodilution with dextran 40 in the rat: effect on the development of peripheral edema and various physiologic parameters. low molecular weight dextran 40 (d40), 40,000 daltons, is a potential therapeutic agent for cerebral ischemia because it increases local cerebral blood flow. however, the evaluation of d40 in the rat has been difficult due to systemic effects. we evaluated the effects of isovolumic hemodilution with d40 on the development of peripheral edema, mean arterial pressure, hematocrit (hct) and total blood volume in 18 rats, during 30 min or 4 hr i.v. infusions, in animals with and without previous challenge with d40. reduction of hct without peripheral edema to a mean of approximately 31% was only achieved in the animals challenged with i.p. d40 24 hr before hemodilution and who received d40 over a period of 4 hr. infusion of d40 over a period of 30 min was associated with shorter survival time, compared to the 4-hr infusion group (p less than .005). in the pretreated, rapidly infused group, total blood volume per body weight decreased significantly over time (p less than .005) and the mean arterial blood pressure dropped, but not significantly (p less than .07), whereas no change in hct was detected and there was a trend toward increased peripheral edema, relative to the slowly infused groups. we conclude that reduction of hct can be achieved successfully with i.p. administration of d40 24 hr before the study combined with infusion of the agent during a 4-hr period, without significant peripheral edema and early hypotension. this procedure should be used to avoid allergic reactions when evaluating hemodilution with d40 in rats.
fibrosing mediastinitis with coronary artery involvement. this case report describes a patient with chronic fibrosing mediastinitis involving the entire intrapericardial aorta, innominate artery, and the base of the heart with involvement of the proximal segments of the coronary arteries. this finding was unsuspected before emergency coronary artery bypass grafting. coronary stenosis due to fibrosing mediastinitis is a rare complication of fibrosing mediastinitis. owing to the extensive fibrosis, the normal bypass, cardiac preservation, and revascularization techniques required alteration and are discussed.
the dutch experience in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of narrowed saphenous veins used for aortocoronary arterial bypass. of 19,994 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures performed in the netherlands between april 1980 and january 1989, the long-term follow-up of 454 patients who underwent angioplasty of greater than or equal to 1 saphenous vein bypass graft was reviewed. in 46% of patients single graft angioplasty was attempted, and in 54% of patients sequential graft angioplasty was attempted. the clinical primary success rate was 90%. in-hospital mortality was 0.7%, 2.8% of patients sustained a procedural myocardial infarction, and 1.3% of patients underwent emergency bypass surgery. after a follow-up period of 5 years, 74% of patients were alive, and 26% were alive and event-free (no myocardial infarction, no repeat bypass surgery or repeat angioplasty). in patients in whom the initial angioplasty attempt was unsuccessful, only 3% were event-free at 5 years, versus 27% of successfully dilated patients. the time interval between the angioplasty attempt and previous surgery was a significant predictor for 5-year event-free survival. the event-free survival rates for patients who had bypass surgery 1 year before, between 1 and 5 years, and 5 years before angioplasty, were 45, 25 and 19%, respectively. less than one-third of patients with previous bypass surgery who had angioplasty of the graft remained event-free after 5 years. in patients needing angioplasty within 1 year after bypass surgery, better long-term results were achieved.
effect of intraesophageal location and muscarinic blockade on balloon distension-induced chest pain. intraesophageal balloon distension has been introduced recently as a provocative test in the assessment of patients with noncardiac chest pain. in order to examine the effect of balloon location and muscarinic blockade on distension-induced pain, 10 asymptomatic male volunteers were studied on two separate days using a low-compliance perfused manometry system that incorporated a silicone rubber balloon. five-second-duration balloon distensions using balloon volumes of 2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10 ml of air were performed with the balloon located both 16 cm (proximal site) and 6 cm (distal site) above the lower esophageal sphincter (les) before and after administration of atropine (10 micrograms/kg intravenously) or placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion. a standardized scoring system was used to assess the balloon distension-induced pain. pain scores varied directly with balloon volume but were consistently higher with the balloon located at the proximal site versus the distal site. this was not associated with any differences in intraballoon pressures between the two sites; however, contraction amplitude orad to the balloon was greater with balloon distension at the proximal site. atropine significantly decreased pain sensation scores with the balloon located distally but not proximally. this attenuation was not associated with significant changes in intraballoon pressures; however, contractions orad to the balloon were markedly inhibited by atropine with distal but not with proximal distension. these studies indicate that balloon distension-induced pain varies depending on the location of distension. this difference is not explained by differences in esophageal wall tension at the site of distension.
inheritance of proliferative breast disease in breast cancer kindreds. previous studies have emphasized that genetic susceptibility to breast cancer is rare and is expressed primarily as premenopausal breast cancer, bilateral breast cancer, or both. proliferative breast disease (pbd) is a significant risk factor for the development of breast cancer and appears to be a precursor lesion. pbd and breast cancer were studied in 103 women from 20 kindreds that were selected for the presence of two first degree relatives with breast cancer and in 31 control women. physical examination, screening mammography, and four-quadrant fine-needle breast aspirates were performed. cytologic analysis of breast aspirates revealed pbd in 35% of clinically normal female first degree relatives of breast cancer cases and in 13% of controls. genetic analysis suggests that genetic susceptibility causes both pbd and breast cancer in these kindreds. this study supports the hypothesis that this susceptibility is responsible for a considerable portion of breast cancer, including unilateral and postmenopausal breast cancer.
the detubularized right colonic segment as urinary reservoir: evolution of technique for continent diversion. continent diversion of urine via a cecal-right colonic reservoir has been performed at our university hospital since 1977. several modifications of surgical technique have been devised to prevent problems of urinary leakage and difficulties in catheterization. the current technique, used during the last 3 years on 14 patients, involves use of a detubularized right colonic segment as a reservoir, ileal mesenteric exclusion, fashioning the intussuscepted ileal nipple valve with staples and anchoring of a fascia strip sling around the nipple base to the anterior rectus sheath. complication from the reservoir outlet occurred in only 1 patient.
the lovastatin-treated rodent: a new model of barrier disruption and epidermal hyperplasia. recent studies have linked epidermal cholesterol synthesis with maintenance of the permeability barrier. to assess directly the importance of cholesterol synthesis, we applied lovastatin, a potent inhibitor of cholesterol synthesis, to hairless mouse skin. transepidermal water loss (tewl) began to increase after four to six daily applications. co-application of cholesterol blocked the expected increase in tewl, demonstrating the importance of cholesterol for development of the lesion. the histology of lovastatin-treated skin revealed epidermal hyperplasia, accompanied by accelerated dna synthesis. whereas cholesterol synthesis initially was reduced in lovastatin-treated epidermis, with further treatment cholesterol synthesis normalized, while fatty acid synthesis accelerated greatly. although the total free sterol content of lovastatin-treated epidermis remained normal, the fatty acid content increased coincident with barrier disruption. finally, morphologic abnormalities of both lamellar body structure and their deposited, intercellular contents occurred coincident with the emerging biochemical abnormalities. thus, the abnormal barrier function in this model can be ascribed to an initial inhibition of epidermal sterol synthesis followed by an alteration in cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis, leading to an imbalance in stratum corneum lipid composition and abnormal membrane bilayer structure.
stimulation of tumor cell growth by vasoactive intestinal peptide. vasoactive intestinal peptide (vip) stimulated the growth of murine lewis lung carcinoma cells in culture. the growth promoting effect was dependent on the concentration of vip. exposure to vip for 12 hours followed by removal of the peptide resulted in sustained growth promotion for 4 to 5 days in culture. synthetic fragments of vip, i.e., vip (1-16) and vip (22-28), and the unrelated peptide neurotensin failed to stimulate the growth of the lewis lung carcinoma cells. the growth-promoting effect of vip was also observed in a murine mammary tumor cell line and a human lung adenocarcinoma cell line.
significance of the number of stimuli to initiate ouabain-induced arrhythmias in the intact heart. ouabain-induced arrhythmias are a well-known model used to study triggered activity resulting from delayed afterdepolarizations. in the intact heart, initiation of these arrhythmias is promoted by pacing, especially at fast rates. however, the relevance of the number of stimuli is unknown. in conscious dogs with formalin-induced atrioventricular block, we investigated the effect of variations in pacing mode on 1) the behavior of nonsustained triggered rhythms at progressive levels of ouabain intoxication, and 2) the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt). twenty experiments were analyzed. ouabain was administered as a bolus of 40 micrograms/kg followed by continuous infusion. every 15 minutes the pacing protocol was repeated, with a maximum of 10, until completion or induction of vt. when vt could not be initiated, the experiment was repeated at least 1 week later, adding 5-10 micrograms/kg ouabain to the bolus and increasing the infusion rate correspondingly. this was repeated until vt could be induced. four interstimulus intervals (200, 400, 600, and 800 msec) and seven numbers of stimuli (5, 10, 20, 35, 50, 100, and 150) were given in two pacing protocols. the effect of these protocols on 1) the number of induced beats per stimulation train, 2) their first postpacing interval, and 3) induction of vt were studied. initiation of vt occurred after 75 +/- 42 minutes. the bolus of ouabain needed to induce vt was inversely related to the body weight of the animals. progression of ouabain intoxication resulted in 1) a significant increase in the number of induced beats per stimulation train and 2) a significant shortening of the first postpacing interval. stimulation at a faster rate and/or more stimuli resulted in 1) a significantly pronounced increase in the number of induced beats at the higher levels and 2) a significantly shorter first postpacing interval at successive levels of ouabain intoxication.
antibodies to synthetic peptide (125-148) of the alpha-subunit of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis. we measured the amount of antibodies to a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the alpha-subunit residues lys125-thr148 of human acetylcholine receptor (achr) in myasthenic sera. we detected anti-peptide antibodies in 52% (89/171) of the patients with myasthenia gravis (mg), but none in any of the healthy controls. anti-peptide antibodies should provide a valuable immunologic parameter for the clinical evaluation of mg, but no apparent correlation was observed between the titers of anti-peptide and anti-achr antibodies.
trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation. trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects. detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content. detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling, because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait. we report a patient with chronic neutropenia, mild mental retardation, and low sulfur content in hair. our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy.
transcranial doppler determination of cerebral perfusion in patients undergoing cpr: methodology and preliminary findings. study objectives: to correlate cerebral arterial blood velocity measurements as determined by transcranial doppler ultrasound with various resuscitation maneuvers performed in an uncontrolled manner in a series of cardiac arrest patients undergoing standard resuscitation. type of participants: any patient undergoing resuscitation for a nontraumatic cardiac arrest was eligible for the study. interventions: resuscitation was carried out while flow velocities were monitored in various intracranial arteries by transcranial doppler ultrasound. vessel identification was based on the angle and depth of insonation. measurements and main results: the internal carotid artery was located more consistently than either middle cerebral or ophthalmic arteries and provided superior waveforms for analysis. alterations in flow velocity were noted and correlated to various therapeutic interventions. flow velocities were 70% of normal during the early phase of resuscitation but deteriorated over time until there was no evidence of net forward flow. even early in cpr, flow was demonstrated only during systole. conclusion: transcranial doppler ultrasound appears to be a potentially promising means of determining cerebral flow in patients undergoing cpr.
successful treatment of pancreatic pseudocyst with a somatostatin analogue and catheter drainage. we report a patient with bile duct stone-induced pancreatitis who subsequently developed a large pseudocyst that became infected after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) was done for extraction of the stones. percutaneous external drainage allowed control of the infection, but failed to seal the pseudocyst. we then treated the patient with a long-acting somatostatin analogue which shrunk the cyst within a week. patients with pancreatic pseudocyst resistant to drainage should be offered a course of somatostatin before surgery is contemplated.
the relationship of "high risk" mammographic patterns to histological risk factors for development of cancer in the human breast. in the uk trial for the early detection of breast cancer in nottingham, 119 women were identified as having fibrocystic change with epithelial hyperplasia or in situ carcinoma. their mammograms were classified according to wolfe's criteria and the corresponding histology for each patient was classified for degrees of epithelial hyperplasia, atypia and in situ neoplasia using page's criteria. a control population of patients presenting for breast screening was used to represent the general population. no correlation was found between the four mammographic wolfe patterns, n1, p1, p2 and dy and histological evidence of epithelial hyperplasia, atypia or in situ carcinoma. a further study was carried out to determine histological features of wolfe pattern, using radiological examination of resected breast tissue. the variation in wolfe pattern was related to the distribution of fibrous and adipose tissue in the breast interlobular stroma and appeared to have no relationship to epithelial parenchymal content. this information does not support the hypothesis that radiographic densities of p2 and dy patterns correspond to high risk epithelial proliferation.
urinary tract infection in women. current role of single-dose therapy. administration of a single dose of an antimicrobial agent is acceptable therapy for women with uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections. there is adequate information in the literature to support the clinical use of single-dose therapy, although there is still a need for further, well-designed, sufficiently large studies that compare single-dose therapy to abbreviated-course (3-day) and traditional (7- to 14-day) therapy.
results of vein graft reconstruction of the lower extremity in diabetic and nondiabetic patients. the results of 171 vein grafts of the lower extremity were evaluated. these were placed between january 1981 and december 1987 in 150 patients, 75 diabetic and 75 nondiabetic, to determine the influence of diabetes on the outcome of the procedure. one and four year patency rates were determined by a life table analysis. no statistical differences in primary patency were found between the patients with diabetes and those without diabetes for all indications of operations (one year, diabetic patients 95 +/- 3 per cent, nondiabetic patients 85 +/- 3 per cent; four years, diabetic patients 89 +/- 11 per cent and nondiabetic patients 80 +/- 12 per cent; p = n.s.). for those operated upon for salvage of the limb because of rest pain, ulceration or gangrene, patency in diabetic patients at one year approached a statistically significant advantage (diabetic patients 94 +/- 4 per cent versus nondiabetic patients 79 +/- 8 per cent; p = 0.056). we believe that arterial reconstruction of the lower extremity can be performed upon patients with diabetes with the same high degree of success for revascularization and salvage of the limb as can be accomplished in nondiabetic patients. this is true even though those with diabetes present with necrosis of the tissue and more often require bypass to distal tibial arteries.
effect of normal msafp screening on maternal age for genetic amniocentesis. routine maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (msafp) screening for neural tube defects is considered by many to be standard obstetrical care, and recently many have encouraged this test to screen for trisomy-21 (down's syndrome). we questioned whether, after a normal msafp screen, the risk of trisomy-21 decreases enough to warrant modifying the recommended age for genetic amniocentesis for down's syndrome. a logistic regression was developed which, using reported values for sensitivity and specificity for msafp detection of trisomy-21 and assuming a constant threshold risk in opting for amniocentesis, indicates that genetic amniocentesis for trisomy-21 may be deferred in some women who have a normal msafp screening. sensitivity analysis of varying thresholds for a normal msafp demonstrates that a 37 year old woman with a median msafp level has the same risk for trisomy-21 as an unscreened women who is 4.5 years younger. an abnormal msafp is useful in screening for neural tube defects and possibly for trisomy-21. a normal msafp may allow for delaying the potentially risky amniocentesis in otherwise low-risk pregnancies.
use of a knee-brace for control of tibial translation and rotation. a comparison, in cadavera, of available models. we assessed the relative restraints that are provided by fourteen currently available functional knee-braces, using six limbs in cadavera. the tests were made at 30 and 60 degrees of flexion of the knee, and a mechanical loading system applied loads that caused anterior-posterior translation and internal-external rotation. the braces limited abnormal tibiofemoral displacements by 10 to 75 per cent in translation; there was more variation in rotation. this study demonstrated that functional knee-braces provide a restraining influence that may be beneficial in the control of abnormal displacements of the knee, but that the degree of restraint varies considerably.
comparison of early versus late experience with percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty. the immediate outcome of the first 150 patients (group 1) and the last 161 patients (group 2) who underwent percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty was compared. there was no difference between the two groups in age, gender, new york heart association functional class, presence of calcification, atrial fibrillation, degree of mitral regurgitation, mean pulmonary artery pressure, left atrial pressure, cardiac output, pulmonary vascular resistance, mitral valve gradient and mitral valve area. fewer patients in group 1 than group 2 had an echocardiographic score less than or equal to 8 (62% versus 69%, respectively, p = 0.02). the atrial septum was dilated with an 8 mm balloon in 74% of patients in group 1 and with a 5 mm balloon in all patients in group 2. ratio of effective balloon dilating area to body surface area was larger in group 1 than in group 2 (4.05 +/- 0.07 versus 3.7 +/- 0.03 cm2/m2, p = 0.0001). a good result (mitral valve area greater than or equal to 1.5 cm2) was obtained in 77% and 75% in groups 1 and 2, respectively (p = ns). after percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, a greater than or equal to 2 grade increase in mitral regurgitation was noted in 12% of group 1 and 6% of group 2 (p = 0.02) and a left to right shunt was detected in 22% of group 1 and 11% of group 2 (p = 0.0001). there were three procedure-related deaths in group 1, but none in group 2.
prospective observations of 100 high-risk neonates by high-field (1.5 tesla) magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system: i. intraventricular and extracerebral lesions. the results of observations of the first 100 neonates at the university of texas health science center (houston) who received magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system by means of a high-field image (1.5 t) are reported. all were assessed prospectively to be at risk neurodevelopmental delay. this first report specifically addresses the appearance of primarily hemorrhagic intracranial lesions, including intraventricular hemorrhage (n = 28), and extracerebral lesions, which include 3 cases of venous sinus thrombosis (n = 20). the signal intensities of hemorrhage underwent a characteristic evolution with time with only minor variations in the study group. magnetic resonance imaging detected direct evidence of hemorrhage for up to 2 months, but hemosiderin was detected as a late indicator of hemorrhage for up to 9 months. magnetic resonance imaging was equal in benefit to head ultrasonography and computed tomography for the diagnosis of intraventricular hemorrhage, but magnetic resonance imaging was also able to approximate the time of onset of hemorrhage. magnetic resonance imaging was superior for the evaluation of extracerebral hemorrhage; ultrasonography failed to detect any of these lesions and computed tomography detected only 3 of 7. short-term neurological abnormality was assessed, but the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to predict long-term neurodevelopmental delay is unknown and is the subject of an ongoing project.
prevention of paraplegia during aortic operations. ischemic spinal cord injury after aortic cross-clamping may be produced by a steal phenomenon. the present study investigates this possibility by directly measuring the oxygen tension on the spinal cord surface in pigs. after simple clamping of the aorta, oxygen tension decreased significantly distal to the clamping site both after occlusion of the thoracic aorta at t3-4 (group 1) and after occlusion of the abdominal aorta at l-1 (group 2). exclusion of the thoracic aorta by a second clamp at t-13 restored oxygen tension almost to the original level, whereas segmentation of the abdominal aorta up to s-1 hardly affected oxygen tension in the area of the artery of adamkiewicz in most of the animals. we conclude that after aortic cross-clamping, blood tends to drain away from the spinal cord rather than supplying it longitudinally. without knowledge of the position of the adamkiewicz artery in humans as well as of the competence of the collateral circulation in the excluded segment, it is necessary to develop a new strategy for repair of the aorta. we describe and discuss two surgical techniques for the prevention of paraplegia after aortic cross-clamping: the counterocclusion technique and the bypass fractionated technique.
expert testimony based on decision analysis: a malpractice case report. objective: expert testimony in malpractice cases is often subjective and biased. decision-analytic techniques might provide an objective basis for such testimony. design: case report. this article reports the case of a patient with chest pain that resulted in a malpractice suit alleging a delay in diagnosis of coronary artery disease. setting: the case occurred in a private practice; the expert witnesses and the decision analysis originated from a university teaching hospital. methods: a decision tree and threshold analysis were used to define the thresholds of disease probability at which either testing or treatment should be implemented. the expert testimony of two witnesses that exercise stress testing was the standard of care was compared with the results of the decision analysis. main results: decision analysis supported the view that cardiac catheterization would have been the more appropriate test. conclusions: techniques of decision analysis provide a structured and quantitative basis for empirical judgment and may help to minimize current problems with expert testimony.
renal effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in congestive heart failure. some studies report that inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) improves renal function in patients with congestive heart failure, whereas others report that renal deterioration is a frequent complication of treatment with ace inhibitors. this article explores the mechanisms by which antagonism of the renin-angiotensin system improves kidney function in some patients while causing harm in others. ace inhibition may alter renal blood flow, glomerular perfusion pressure, basement membrane activity and renal tubular function both directly and indirectly. in most patients, renal function is maintained as other neurohormonal mechanisms compensate for the negative effects and permit the positive effects (such as improved renal flow) to predominate. however, when physiologic characteristics or iatrogenic interventions (such as volume reduction or prostaglandin inhibition) limit the effectiveness of neurohormonal compensation to maintain renal autoregulation, clinically important deterioration in renal function may occur. an understanding of the renal effects of ace inhibitors permits their safe and effective use in most patients with congestive heart failure.
a 5.3-kb deletion including exon xiii of the protein s alpha gene occurs in two protein s-deficient families. genomic dna samples from 12 protein s-deficient families with hereditary thrombophilia were analyzed by southern hybridization using protein s cdna probes. protein s-deficient members of families a and b possessed identical restriction fragment length polymorphisms, which suggest the absence of 5.3 kb from one of their protein s alpha alleles. the abnormal alleles from individuals a7 and b1 were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction using a forward primer in intron k and a reverse primer in exon xiv. the amplified dna was cloned and sequenced. sequence comparison with the normal protein s alpha gene showed that most of intron l (roughly 4.7 kb), the entire exon xiii (151 bp), and about a quarter of intron m (407 bp) were missing from both the a7 and b1 clones. exon xiii contains all three potential n-glycosylation sites in human protein s. this deletion may result in rna transcripts in which exon xii is spliced to exon xiv. such an arrangement would generate a stop codon at position 463 and consequently produce a nonglycosylated protein s molecule truncated by 173 amino acids.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy using intracorporeal lithotripsy. over a 13-month period (november 1988 to december 1989), we performed our first 104 laparoscopic cholecystectomies using an intracorporeal ultrasonic lithotripsy technique. the procedure in three of these patients was converted to an open operation because of hemorrhage with unexpected findings of cirrhosis in two patients and dense subhepatic adhesions in a third. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was successfully used in three other patients in whom common bile duct stones were identified. we encountered only three postoperative complications out of all the laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed. one complication was a biliary fistula that closed spontaneously 1 week after surgery. the remaining complications were attributable to abscesses, one subhepatic and one pelvic, which were aspirated and drained laparoscopically. there were no deaths. advantages of the laparoscopic approach included decreased perioperative pain, shortened hospitalization, absence of scar, and more rapid return to prehospitalization activities.
normal proprioceptive trigeminal afferents in patients with sjogren's syndrome and sensory neuronopathy. a pure sensory neuropathy due to neuronal damage in the gasserian and spinal ganglia has been described in patients with sjogren's syndrome. conventional electromyographic (emg) studies can demonstrate the selective involvement of the sensory pathways but they do not provide definite evidence for the site of the lesion. noting that the trigeminal sensory neurons carrying cutaneous and muscular afferents are differentially located in the gasserian and mesencephalic nuclei, respectively, we carried out an electrophysiological study of the trigeminofacial and trigeminotrigeminal reflexes in 5 patients with sjogren's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy, in 10 patients with sensory-motor neuropathies of other causes, and in 10 healthy subjects. our results show that patients with sjogren's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy who exhibited abnormal blink reflexes and an abnormal, cutaneous-induced masseter silent period had normal jaw jerks, whereas patients with sensory-motor neuropathies who exhibited abnormal cutaneous responses had abnormal jaw jerks. these findings suggest that the lesion in pure sensory neuropathy involves damage to the neurons of the gasserian ganglia and not to the trigeminal axons, since an axonal lesion would be expected to involve the large axons from muscle spindle receptors.
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma. multi-modality treatment consisting of cisplatin, vp-16, and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy given concomitantly with external beam radiation was used to treat 64 patients with locally advanced stage iii non-small cell lung carcinoma. this regimen was used in a preoperative fashion for four cycles in patients considered surgically resectable and with curative intent for six cycles in the remainder of patients. the clinical response rate for the entire group was 84% and the overall local control rate was 74%. the median survival was 13 months with a median follow-up for live patients of 19 months. the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates were 30% and 23%, respectively. histologic complete response was 39% and appeared to predict for survival. the 3-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival rates for 23 resected patients were 69% and 45%, respectively, with the complete histologic responders having a disease-free survival of 78%. the pattern of first recurrence did not appear to differ by histology or presence of lymph nodes in this subset of patients. the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates for inoperable patients receiving six cycles of treatment were 18% and 23%, respectively. the local control was 67% with the majority of these patients having stage iiib disease. the mountain international staging system appeared to predict for operability, local recurrence, and survival. this concomitant treatment regimen is feasible, with the major toxicities being leukopenia, nausea, and vomiting.
high-risk factors in metastatic gestational trophoblastic neoplasia. the patient with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia faces a number of risks; the greatest is the failure of current treatment to bring about remission. based on a review of past experience, a number of risk factors associated with failure of single-agent chemotherapy were identified, and the subsequent utilization of combination chemotherapy led to an improved outcome. an analysis of more recent experience has identified factors associated with the failure of standard combination chemotherapy, and it is hoped that the development of new treatments will again improve the outcome. this review provides a perspective on known high-risk factors in light of contemporary treatment.
a prospective study of double diagnosis of nonpalpable lesions of the breast. approximately three-fourths of open biopsies of the breast performed for mammographically detected suspicious lesions are shown histologically to be benign. under the narrow conditions described herein, stereotaxic fine-needle aspiration (fna) can identify these lesions with an accuracy of more than 90 per cent and a false-negative rate of 5 per cent. in an effort to reduce this failure rate, the mammographic appearance and stereotaxic fna results of these lesions each were given scores on a scale of zero (benign) to five (malignant), to derive an over-all risk score prospectively applied to 264 suspicious occult lesions of the breast prior to open, biopsy. while all 264 lesions could be assigned a mammographic score, adequate tissue for assignment of a cytologic score could be obtained from 150 lesions. of the 150 evaluable lesions, 53 were malignant and 97 were benign, historically. with a total score of two as the threshold for open biopsy, 21 of 150 (14 per cent) were proved to be benign, with no false-negative findings. if the total threshold score mandating an open biopsy was raised to four, the comparable figures were 61 of 150 (40 per cent) benign lesions and two false-negative instances of carcinoma in situ. provided adequate tissue is aspirated for cytologic examination, we conclude that this algorithm has practical value in the management of nonpalpable lesions of the breast in that it can reliably identify a fraction of the benign lesions and spare these patients an operation.
acute myocardial infarction and chest pain syndromes after cocaine use. seventy patients hospitalized with chest pain after cocaine use were retrospectively evaluated to define the risk and clinical course of acute myocardial infarction (ami). ami developed in 22 patients (31%) and transient myocardial ischemia was seen in an additional 9 patients (13%). coronary risk factors did not distinguish those who developed ami from those who did not. the presenting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 20 of 22 patients who evolved ami and in 19 of 48 of those who did not. creatine kinase levels were elevated in 75% of the patients, including 65% of those who did not develop ami, but creatine kinase-mb elevations were only observed in the ami group. the route of cocaine administration did not predict ami and there was no predilection for a particular coronary vascular bed. the length of time between drug use and onset of ami pain was often quite prolonged (median interval, 18 vs 1 hour in the non-ami group). eight of the patients with ami underwent cardiac catheterization and 4 had significant coronary narrowing.
persistent hepatitis b virus following interferon alfa therapy and liver transplantation. a 44-year-old man with chronic hepatitis b virus infection and cirrhosis was treated with recombinant human interferon alfa for 67 days immediately before orthotopic liver transplantation and immunoprophylaxis with hyperimmune globulin to hepatitis b virus in the peritransplant period. dot blots for hepatitis b virus dna demonstrated marked reduction in viremia after 41 days of interferon alfa treatment. southern analysis for hepatitis b virus in liver showed a pronounced decrement in actively replicating forms in the explant, although hepatic infection was still detectable. after liver transplantation, tests for serum hepatitis b virus dna and hepatitis b surface antigen remained negative. the patient died 32 days after transplantation of causes unrelated to hepatitis b virus. dna isolated from liver and other visceral organs at autopsy showed infection of the engrafted liver and the persistence of monomeric relaxed circular forms of hepatitis b virus dna in pancreas, kidney, and spleen. thus, graft reinfection occurred despite aggressive antiviral therapy and immunoprophylaxis combined with liver transplantation. existing viral serological markers appear insufficiently sensitive to assess residual infectivity.
reduced atrial contribution to left ventricular filling in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation after tricuspid valvulectomy: a doppler echocardiographic study. patients undergoing valvulectomy for isolated tricuspid valve endocarditis offer the unique opportunity to study the effects of acquired right ventricular volume overload on left ventricular filling in persons free of pulmonary hypertension and preexisting left heart disease. eleven patients who had undergone total or partial removal of the tricuspid valve were compared with 11 age-matched control subjects; doppler echocardiographic techniques were used to quantify changes in left ventricular filling and to relate them to changes in left ventricular and left atrial geometry caused by right ventricular and right atrial distension. the late diastolic fractional transmitral flow velocity integral, a measure of the left atrial contribution to left ventricular filling, was significantly decreased in patients undergoing tricuspid valvulectomy compared with control subjects (0.22 +/- 0.11 versus 0.32 +/- 0.09; p less than 0.04). severe tricuspid regurgitation in these patients resulted in marked right atrial distension, reversal of the normal interatrial septal curvature and compression of the left atrium such that left atrial area was significantly smaller than in control subjects (5.9 +/- 2.2 versus 8.6 +/- 1.2 cm2/m2; p less than 0.005). acting as a receiving chamber, the left ventricle was maximally compressed by the volume-overloaded right ventricle in late diastole, coincident with the timing of atrial systole, resulting in a significant increase in the left ventricular eccentricity index compared with that in control subjects (1.35 +/- 0.14 versus 1.03 +/- 0.1; p less than 0.001). thus, right ventricular volume overload due to severe tricuspid regurgitation results in left heart geometric alterations that decrease left atrial preload, impair left ventricular receiving chamber characteristics and reduce the atrial contribution to total left ventricular filling.
cardiac arrhythmias from a malpositioned greenfield filter in a traumatic quadriplegic. a case study is presented of premature greenfield filter discharge with intracardiac migration and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias. these arrhythmias also interfered with the patient's transition from ventilatory support via orotracheal intubation to noninvasive positive airway pressure ventilatory support methods. the patient's arrhythmias were controlled by a demand cardiac pacemaker and cardiac glycoside therapy. no anticoagulants were used. she had no further filter migration nor significant complications for 16 months after hospital discharge.
flow cytometry for clinical estimation of circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation in cancer patients. optimum methods of harvesting circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation to support myeloablative cancer therapy are still uncertain, mostly because of the lack of an assay for marrow-repopulating stem cells. the cfu-gm assay, the commonly used indirect indicator of the quality of the graft, is poorly standardized and provides results evaluable only retrospectively. based on the knowledge that hematopoietic progenitors express cd34 and cd33 differentiation antigens, we developed a dual-color direct immunofluorescence flow cytometry assay with the aim of replacing the cfu-gm assay advantageously. for this purpose, we applied both assays to 157 blood samples obtained daily throughout 20 different recoveries from pancytopenia induced by high-dose cyclophosphamide or etoposide cancer therapy with or without recombinant human gm colony-stimulating factor (rhgm-csf). the appearance of cd34+ cells in the circulation indicated that hematopoietic progenitors had increased to more than 500 cfu-gm/ml, a level clinically adequate for large-scale harvest by leukapheresis. total cd34+ cells correlated well with cfu-gm (r = .89), and data could be fitted by a linear regression line described by the equation y = 388.3 + 64.0x, where y = cfu-gm/ml and x = cd34+ cells per microliter. moreover, in a series of six patients treated with myeloablative chemoradiotherapy, early hematopoietic recovery of marrow functions was predicted more accurately by the number of transplanted cd34+/cd33+ cells than by either total nucleated cells, cfu-gm, cd34+/cd33- cells, or cd34-/cd33+ cells. data presented in this article favor clinical use of the cd34/cd33 flow cytometry assay to guide harvesting of circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation and contribute to better understanding of the role played by circulating hematopoietic progenitor cell subsets in marrow recovery after myeloablative cancer therapy.
profound digital collagen atrophy: a new cutaneous presentation of adrenal-dependent cushing's syndrome. a 59-year-old caucasian housewife presented with a 2-year history of marked loss of tissue substance from the finger and toe pulps and the heel pads. there was no clinical evidence or history of urticaria or other inflammatory change. investigations demonstrated a raised plasma cortisol secondary to a left adrenal adenoma. skin biopsies showed abnormalities of dermal collagen, but no evidence of elastin destruction. this case presents an unusual variant of the cutaneous atrophy associated with cushing's syndrome.
naproxen sodium in menstrual migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind placebo controlled study. in this study, the efficacy of naproxen sodium (nxs) in the prophylaxis of menstrual migraine (mm) was tested, versus placebo (pl). forty women suffering from mm were admitted to a double-blind treatment protocol with nxs 550 mg twice each day by mouth or placebo (pl), for 3 months; in the next 3 months all the women were treated with the active drug in an open study. the headache intensity and duration, as well as the number of days of headache and the analgesic consumption, were significantly reduced with nxs compared to pl. the efficacy of nxs, shown also in improving premenstrual pain, and its good tolerability, support the use of this drug in the prophylactic therapy of mm.
ulnar nerve decompression with medial epicondylectomy for neuropathy at the elbow. ulnar nerve decompression with medial epicondylectomy was performed in 66 elbows between 1966 and 1986 for compressive ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. this study is an updated review that adds 36 cases to a previously published report on 30 cases. these elbows were graded preoperatively and postoperatively using mcgowan's grading system. eighty-three percent improved one or two grades, and 11% improved subjectively although they showed no objective improvement, 3% noted no change, and 3% were subjectively worse. one early case sustained damage to the ulnar collateral ligament with resultant instability. no other complications occurred. the best results were seen in the grade i and ii lesions, whereas those with grade iii lesions were the least predictable. the procedure is technically uncomplicated with minimal morbidity and reliable results.
circulatory and thermal adjustments to prolonged exercise in paraplegic women. the circulatory and thermal responses to 90 min of wheelchair ergometer exercise were examined in five wheelchair dependent (wd) women with low level spinal dysfunction and five able-bodied (ab) women who served as a comparison group. metabolic rate during exercise was 221 w for wd and 255 w for ab (p greater than 0.05). oral temperature (tor), mean skin temperature (tsk), oxygen uptake (vo2), heart rate (hr), and cardiac output (qc) were assessed periodically throughout the exercise period. ambient conditions were 24-25 degrees c and 38-52% relative humidity. a significant group x time interaction was found for tor (p less than 0.001) and tsk (p less than 0.001). tor of the wd group steadily increased during the exercise, whereas the ab group showed a stable tor. tsk of wd increased rapidly during the first 5-10 min of exercise and continued to rise at a slower rate throughout the exercise. in contrast, tsk of ab rose to a peak during the first 10 min and then showed a decreasing trend. vo2 and hr remained stable in both groups throughout the exercise period. following an initial increase in qc from minute 10 to minute 20 in both groups, values for wd continually decreased until qc at 80 min was 14% lower than at 10 min. the findings suggest that the wd women had greater thermoregulatory strain than the ab women as indicated by a higher tor and tsk and by an inability to maintain qc due to paralysis of the lower limbs and perhaps an increase in cutaneous blood volume.
complications associated with limb salvage for extremity sarcomas and their management. a retrospective clinical review of 100 consecutive patients with extremity sarcomas managed by limb salvage operations was performed to evaluate local tumor control and morbidity. the mean follow-up period was 45.1 months. overall survival was 86%. there were local recurrences in 3% of patients, and 26 complications in 22 patients. wound necrosis was the most frequent complication. failure of allogeneic bone graft operations occurred in 25 patients. most of the complications were salvageable without loss of limb. limb salvage is an acceptable surgical treatment of extremity sarcomas based on adequate local control and minimal morbidity.
application of time series analysis to circadian rhythms: effect of beta-adrenergic blockade upon heart rate and transient myocardial ischemia. circadian variations of transient myocardial ischemia and heart rate have been identified, but the rhythms and their response to beta blockade have not been fully characterized. time-series analysis, a mathematical technique to describe oscillatory activity occurring within a continuous data set was used, to address these issues. nine men with coronary artery disease underwent 72 hours of ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring during therapy with placebo or metoprolol. during administration of placebo, ischemic time and heart rate showed a primary peak with a periodicity of approximately 24 hours with a tight coupling between the 2 variables and a secondary peak with a periodicity of 5 to 8 hours. during metoprolol therapy, heart rate and ischemic variation were reduced and the 24-hour periodicity for heart rate only remained. the 24-hour periodicity for ischemia was eliminated, but the data with 5- to 8-hour periodicity became the major component of the signal.
repair of cartilage lesions using biological implants. a comparative histological and biomechanical study in goats. we report the experimental use of three different biological implants to restore articular surface defects: glutaraldehyde-fixed bovine meniscal xenograft, glutaraldehyde-fixed bovine costal cartilage xenograft, and viable osteochondral allografts. the grafts were implanted in the knees of 19 goats who were allowed free-field activity and were studied for up to one year. the natural articular surfaces of meniscal fibrocartilage provided excellent articular surfaces at all times. equally good articular surfaces were restored by host tissue growth covering costal cartilage grafts at six months, but by 12 months this surface had degenerated. the majority of the allografts survived and integrated with the host at six months, but many showed signs of failure at 12 months. only three out of seven ungrafted defects healed completely at six months and the healed surfaces were degenerating at 12 months.
sequential gradient pneumatic compression enhances venous ulcer healing: a randomized trial. the treatment of venous ulcers has remained largely unchanged for centuries. the application of properly applied graduated compression bandages, the use of graduated compression stockings, and surgery have been shown to achieve healing. however, some ulcers persist despite appropriate management. a randomized study was undertaken to compare two regimens of treatment for such patients. both regimens included ulcer debridement, cleaning, nonadherent dressing, and graduated compression stockings. in one regimen, sequential gradient intermittent pneumatic compression was applied for 4 hours each day. only one of 24 patients in the control group had complete healing of all ulcers compared with 10 of 21 patients healed in the intermittent pneumatic compression group. the median rate of ulcer healing in the control group was 2.1% area per week compared to 19.8% area per week in the intermittent pneumatic compression group. the results indicate that sequential gradient intermittent pneumatic compression is beneficial in the treatment of venous ulcers.
autoradiographic evaluation of monoclonal antibodies' access to melanoma-associated antigens in melanoma xenografts. autoradiography of nude mice bearing human malignant melanoma xenografts was performed to characterize the distribution pattern of radioiodinated anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies (moab) and fragments in macroscopic tumor nodules. non-uniformity of radioactivity distribution was seen in all moab-xenograft combinations. the predominant patterns were marked deposition of radioactivity either in the periphery of nodules or in sharply delimited intra-tumoral foci. these patterns were generated by limitations in the accessibility of melanoma tissue rather than gross necrosis or heterogeneity of antigen expression. computer-aided densitometry of autoradiograms was used to elaborate the difference of accumulation in intra-tumoral hot spots versus cold areas. it was found that increasing uniformity was achieved by increasing the dose of moab (i.e., intact igg) injected, whereas a reduction in the size of moab (igg greater than f(ab')2 greater than fab) showed no such effect.
management of renovascular disease. a surgical perspective. the role of surgical revascularization in the management of patients with renal artery disease has changed in recent years. this has occurred due to the advent of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty as an effective method of treatment for certain patients, improved results of surgical revascularization in older patients with atherosclerosis, an enhanced appreciation of advanced atherosclerotic renal artery disease as a correctable cause of renal failure, and the development of more effective surgical techniques for patients with severe aortic atherosclerosis and branch renal artery disease. surgical revascularization is currently the treatment of choice for patients with branch renal artery disease, ostial atherosclerotic renal artery disease, a renal artery aneurysm, and patients in whom renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has been unsuccessful. excellent clinical results continue to be achieved with surgical revascularization in properly selected patients.
measurement of progressive cerebral ventriculomegaly in infants after grades iii and iv intraventricular hemorrhages. to develop guidelines that might help predict prospectively which infants with severe intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) would require intervention, we obtained serial cranial sonograms to measure the rate of growth of cerebral ventricular volumes in 48 preterm infants with and without ivh. the infants were divided into three groups: (1) those with no ivh (22 infants), (2) those with ivh with acute ventricular dilation (13 infants), and (3) those with ivh with progressive ventricular dilation requiring intervention (13 infants). the decision to intervene because of progressive ventricular dilation was based on clinical criteria and the subjective assessment of increasing ventricular size on weekly cranial sonograms. the rate of cerebral ventricular volume growth in infants with ivh who needed intervention was greater (4.2 +/- 3.3 ml/day) than that in infants without ivh (0.0 +/- 0.1 ml/day; p less than 0.001) and in infants with ivh and acute ventricular dilation (0.0 +/- 0.2 ml/day; p less than 0.001). using these data, we generated guidelines for predicting prospectively which infants with ivh and ventricular dilation will need intervention for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. the guidelines were then confirmed prospectively in 10 infants.
nutrient modulation of inflammatory and immune function. the metabolic response to injury occurs after a diverse group of surgical injuries including major surgical intervention, shock, infection, and sources of inflammation such as pancreatitis. the response is mediated by the macroendocrine system, the autonomic nervous system, and the cell-cell communication system. the clinical manifestations include now well-described clinical, physiologic, and metabolic characteristics. the approach of aggressive source control, invasive circulatory resuscitation, and nutrition/metabolic support has been associated with an overall reduction in morbidity and mortality. in those patients who do not respond to this approach, the disease process progresses to multiple organ failure syndrome with its associated high mortality. altering the route of feeding, preventing single nutrient and generalized nutrient deficiency, and reducing nosocomial infections with selective gut decontamination have not significantly altered the course or outcome of the disease process in this latter group of patients with persistent hypermetabolism. the available data support the position that this persistent hypermetabolism represents abnormal metabolic regulation resulting in persistence of the inflammatory response with associated suppression of the immune defenses. a number of research approaches are being taken to understand and modulate this abnormal state of regulation. because of the role of specific nutrients in these regulatory processes, beyond their role in classic nutrition support, nutrients such as arginine n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, and rna are being evaluated for their ability to modulate inflammation and to improve immune function. preliminary results are encouraging.
corporate-sponsored breast cancer screening at the work site: results of a statewide program. mobile screening mammography was offered to 3,627 employees of a large corporation in pennsylvania and delaware. the examination was available to women employees or employee spouses aged 35 years and older. women were charged $30 for a standard two-view examination. they also received health education materials on mammography and breast self-examination. the remaining costs of the program were underwritten by the corporation. during this program, 3,627 mammographic studies were performed; 63 biopsies were recommended. fifty-seven biopsies were performed, and nine cancers were diagnosed. costs of this program are presented in detail. the authors conclude that mobile screening programs at the work site provide an inexpensive, convenient alternative to more traditional screening programs. the inherent advantages of this program are the low cost, the relative ease with which the examination can be performed, and the positive role that corporate medical personnel assume in encouraging individual and group participation.
biliary lithotripsy: in vitro analysis of gallstone fragmentation for equivalent stone volumes. the relationship between gallstone fragmentation during extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) and gallstone volume is poorly understood. clinical results of eswl show that the highest stone-free rate at 6 months occurs with radiolucent single gallstones 20 mm or less in diameter. in an in vitro study, individual gallstones from cholecystectomy specimens were divided by size and composition into nine single- and nine multiple-stone groups; the stones were then paired on the basis of similar volume. eswl was performed in a phantom and the size of the largest fragment was measured at 500, 1,000, and 1,500 shock waves. at 1,500 shock waves, sandlike particles were present in six of nine single stones versus two of nine multiple stone groups; the mean size of the largest fragment at 1,500 shock waves was 2.1 mm (single) and 4.4 mm (multiple) in diameter. when corrected for volume, the authors' data suggest that single stones are more easily broken into fragments smaller than 5 mm in diameter than multiple gallstones. the implication, especially when spark-gap technology is used, is that more shock wave energy (ie, an increased number of shock waves at a higher kilovoltage) will be necessary to achieve the same results when treating patients with multiple stones versus a single gallstone with a similar stone volume.
male breast cancer. male breast cancer is uncommon but important. the diagnosis is easily made by breast biopsy, and patients are presenting earlier in the course of the disease than in the past. despite this, patients are often first seen with tumors that have metastasized to the axillary nodes, which markedly decreases the survival rate. therapy of localized disease includes simple excision, modified radical mastectomy, and radical mastectomy, but there is no consensus for which operation is appropriate. radiation therapy should be strongly considered in patients with metastases to the axillary nodes, but the role of adjuvant hormonal therapy or chemotherapy is unclear. for treatment of disseminated disease, tamoxifen seems to be replacing orchiectomy. the favorable response rate, especially in patients with estrogen-receptor-positive tumors, the lack of side effects, and the high level of patient acceptability make it an attractive therapeutic choice.
new developments in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. since the last revision of the american heart association's guidelines in 1985, several new developments of clinical importance have occurred in the field of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. these include enhanced access to and earlier use of defibrillation, the use of high-dose epinephrine when standard doses fail, the assessment of resuscitative efforts with end-tidal co2 monitoring and the addition of two new drugs, amiodarone (for refractory ventricular fibrillation) and adenosine (for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia). time will determine the ultimate role of these advancements in the management of cardiac arrest.
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas. ii. molecular analysis of origin of nondisjunction and gene-centromere mapping of chromosome i markers. chromosomal heteromorphisms and dna polymorphisms have been utilized to identify the mechanisms that lead to formation of human ovarian teratomas and to construct a gene-centromere map of chromosome 1 by using those teratomas that arise by meiotic nondisjunction. of 61 genetically informative ovarian teratomas, 21.3% arose by nondisjunction at meiosis i, and 39.3% arose by meiosis ii nondisjunction. eight polymorphic marker loci on chromosome 1p and one marker on 1q were used to estimate a gene-centromere map. the results show clear linkage of the most proximal 1p marker (nras) and the most proximal 1q marker (d1s61) to the centromere at a distance of 14 cm and 20 cm, respectively. estimated gene-centromere distances suggest that, while recombination occurs normally in ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis ii errors, ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis i nondisjunction have altered patterns of recombination. furthermore, the estimated map demonstrates clear evidence of chiasma interference. our results suggest that ovarian teratomas can provide a rapid method for mapping genes relative to the centromere.
silent ischemia after coronary angioplasty: evaluation of restenosis and extent of ischemia in asymptomatic patients by tomographic thallium-201 exercise imaging and comparison with symptomatic patients. one hundred sixteen patients were evaluated to determine the ability of single photon emission computed tomographic (spect) thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging to detect silent ischemia secondary to restenosis in asymptomatic patients after single and multiple vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and the findings were compared with spect imaging detection of restenosis in symptomatic patients. the value of exercise electrocardiography (ecg) and the amount of ischemic myocardium in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were determined. forty-one patients were asymptomatic after angioplasty; 77% of these had chest pain before angioplasty. seventy-five patients had chest pain after angioplasty; 99% of these had chest pain before angioplasty. restenosis occurred in 61% of asymptomatic and 59% of symptomatic patients and in 46% of the vessels in both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients. sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for detection of restenosis by spect in individual patients were 96%, 75% and 88% versus 91%, 77% and 85%, respectively, in the asymptomatic versus symptomatic groups (p = ns). sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for restenosis detection in individual vessels were 90%, 89% and 89% versus 84%, 77% and 84%, respectively, in the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups (p = ns), with similar results for the three major arteries. sensitivity and accuracy of exercise ecg were significantly less than those of spect imaging for the patients with silent (40% and 44%) and symptomatic (59% and 64%) ischemia (p less than 0.001). restenosis of vessels in the patients with silent and symptomatic ischemia was associated with an equal amount and degree of severity of ischemic myocardium in the two groups.
the relationship of abh(o) blood group antigen expression in intraepithelial dysplastic lesions to clinicopathologic properties of associated transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. paraffin-embedded, giant-step sections of 13 bladders with transitional cell carcinomas were stained with monoclonal anti-a or anti-b antibodies to investigate whether intraepithelial dysplastic lesions are related to obvious tumors. normal and/or hyperplastic lesions were retained in only eight bladders; severe dysplasia and/or carcinoma in situ were found in all bladders except two. ab-antigen expression was retained in intraepithelial lesions of bladders with invasive carcinoma. most intraepithelial lesions were ab-antigen negative in bladders with frequently recurrent tumors. in bladders with initially multiple tumors, ab-antigen expression was negative in almost one half of the intraepithelial lesions. therefore, it appears likely that most multiple or recurrent bladder carcinomas arise from dysplastic cells in intraepithelial lesions which have acquired malignant potential; initially invasive tumors quickly develop from a limited lesion acquiring a high malignant potential without changes of cell phenotype in most intraepithelial lesions.
thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. the 1980s has been a critical decade for the management of acute myocardial infarction (mi) because of the concentration in a very short time span of innovative results produced by a new generation of trials, in which thrombolysis has been the preeminent topic. the message coming from the results in the more than 50,000 patients included in the five key trials is simple and clear: thrombolysis, of any type, is the cornerstone of acute treatment of mi, and it works well to produce a very favorable epidemiologic picture. in the gissi-2 trial, the nationwide adoption of a package of recommended treatments centered on thrombolysis for the overall population of patients with an acute mi has produced a relevant modification of the natural history of the disease, reducing the in-hospital mortality by about 40% in few years (from 13% to 8.8%). in particular, in the great majority of cases (patients aged less than 70 years in killip class i with a first acute mi), the mortality has gone down to 3%, making a further reduction very hard to obtain with new drugs or strategies. in this context, we will discuss the concept of the relevance for clinical practice of obtaining even greater patency rates with new thrombolytic agents (hopefully more efficient and safe) or with new combinations of traditional agents.
topographic comparative study of magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography in 34 children with tuberous sclerosis. a series of 34 children with confirmed tuberous sclerosis (ts) were studied prospectively by both eeg and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) at ages ranging from 5 months to 18 years. size and topography of the cortical tubers were analyzed on axial and coronal views, in t2 sequences, and the large tubers greater than 10 mm were studied. in addition, eeg follow-up data were reviewed retrospectively. twenty-six patients (76%) had both mri large cortical tubers and eeg foci, 3 had normal eeg, 2 had normal mri, and the remaining 3 had only small tubers. the number of large tubers was significantly related to eeg foci. a topographic mri/eeg correspondence was observed for at least one tuber in 25 of the 26 patients, and correspondence was complete in 10 patients. large cortical tubers without corresponding eeg foci were observed in 11 patients; these tubers mainly involved the frontal regions and were found before the patients were 2 years old. eeg foci without corresponding tubers were observed in 4 patients. in addition, secondary bilateral synchrony was preferentially observed in patients with frontal lesions and after the age of 2 years. these data confirm that the cortical tubers are epileptogenic and that their expression may be influenced by regional cortical maturation.
gastric juice ascorbic acid: effects of disease and implications for gastric carcinogenesis. n-nitroso compounds (noc) are strongly implicated in the causation of cancer of the stomach and it has been suggested that ascorbic acid might reduce the risk of gastric cancer by preventing their formation within gastric juice. however, until recently there have been no measurements of gastric juice ascorbic acid concentrations. we have measured both gastric juice ascorbic and total vitamin c (ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid). our findings suggest that ascorbic acid is secreted into the gastric lumen so that gastric juice concentrations are often greater than those in plasma. gastric pathology affects this secretion, leading to values in gastric juice that are lower than plasma levels. stimulation of gastric secretion does not raise vitamin c concentrations in individuals whose values are initially low. the role of ascorbic acid in preventing formation of noc and protecting against gastric cancer is discussed in the light of these findings.
risk factors for carotid artery stenosis: an epidemiological study of men aged 69 years. four hundred and seventy-eight men born in 1914 and residing in the city of malmo, sweden, underwent ultrasonic doppler examination of the carotid arteries in 1982/83. the known risk factors for vascular disease--blood pressure, lipids, glucose, hematocrit, alcohol consumption and body mass index were also measured. a moderate stenosis (diameter reduction 30-59%) of the internal carotid artery was found in 95 men (20%); 15 men (3%) had a greater than or equal to 60% stenosis of the internal carotid artery, while 7 (1.5%) had complete unilateral occlusion. smoking was found to be significantly related to severe carotid artery disease. there was also a significant correlation between maximum flow velocity in the internal carotid artery and triglycerides. those quitting smoking before the age of 50 had the same incidence of internal carotid artery disease as non-smokers, while those quitting later in life had a slightly higher incidence than life-long smokers.
follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of native coarctation in neonates and infants. the purpose of this study is to present intermediate-term results of balloon angioplasty of native aortic coarctation in neonates and infants less than 1 year of age. during a 60-month-period that ended in january 1990, 19 infants ages 3 days to 12 months (median, 2.5 months), underwent balloon angioplasty of native coarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 39 +/- 12 mm hg (mean +/- sd) to 11 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.001) and increase in coarctation segment size from 2.2 +/- 0.8 mm to 4.7 +/- 1.0 mm. none required immediate surgical intervention. thirteen of the 19 (68%) had severe associated cardiac defects. there was one death (5%) 2 days after balloon angioplasty, and it was related to associated cardiac defect. one infant was lost to follow-up. it is too soon to restudy one infant. the remaining 16 infants had clinical (36 +/- 18 months) and catheterization (12 +/- 4 months) follow-up data. the residual coarctation gradient (22 +/- 15 mm hg) and coarcted segment size (4.4 +/- 1.6 mm) remain improved (p less than 0.01) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values. five of the 16 (31%) infants (four were neonates at the time of balloon angioplasty) had evidence for recoarctation (defined as gradient greater than 20 mm hg) and underwent surgical resection (two) or repeat balloon angioplasty (three), all with success. none developed aneurysms.
hyponatremia-induced inhibition of magnocellular neurons causes stressor-selective impairment of stimulated adrenocorticotropin secretion in rats. chronically hyponatremic rats were subjected to various stressors in order to evaluate the possible contribution of magnocellular neurons to the regulation of acth secretion, since such rats have markedly inhibited secretion and synthesis of magnocellular arginine vasopressin (avp) and oxytocin (ot). stress caused by a novel environment or by insulin-induced hypoglycemia resulted in moderate increases in plasma acth, which were of similar magnitude in both hyponatremic and normonatremic rats, and these stressors caused no increase in plasma avp and ot levels in either group of rats. however, when exposed to ether, hyponatremic rats exhibited a significantly blunted acth response compared to normonatremic controls (331 +/- 49 vs. 740 +/- 124 pg/ml; p less than 0.01, respectively), and plasma avp levels were markedly increased in the normonatremic, but not in the hyponatremic, rats. intravenous infusion of 2 m nacl also caused an acth release in hyponatremic rats that was significantly smaller than that in their normonatremic counterparts (228 +/- 52 vs. 479 +/- 85 pg/ml; p less than 0.05, respectively), and in this case both plasma avp and ot levels were markedly increased in the normonatremic, but not in the hyponatremic, rats. however, hyponatremic rats exhibited greatly increased plasma acth levels 2 and 96 h after adrenalectomy (adx), which were statistically equivalent to the increases in acth levels in normonatremic rats after adx. seven days after adx parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus showed strongly increased crf-41 and avp-neurophysin, but not ot-neurophysin, immunoreactivities in both normonatremic and hyponatremic rats. these results show that parvocellular crf-41/avp-producing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus are not inhibited by chronic hyponatremia, in contrast to magnocellular neurons, and suggest that acth secretion induced by ether or hypertonic saline, but not by novel environment or insulin-induced hypoglycemia, is partially mediated by magnocellular avp and/or ot.
referred pain of muscular origin resembling endodontic involvement. case report. referred pain is common in the orofacial region and can cause considerable difficulties in diagnosis. referred pain is defined as pain that is referred to a part of the body other than the site of origin, and as a result, severe pain may arise without an associated causative lesion. a muscular trigger point that resembled a tooth with endodontic involvement is discussed.
decreased ventilation and hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness are not reversed by naloxone in lhasa residents with chronic mountain sickness. persons with chronic mountain sickness (cms) hypoventilate and are more hypoxemic than normal individuals, but the cause of the hypoventilation is unclear. studies of 14 patients with cms and 11 healthy age-matched control subjects residing in lhasa, tibet, china (3,658 m) were conducted to test the hypothesis that hypoventilation, blunted hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness (hvr), and hypoxic ventilatory depression of cms were due to increased endogenous opioid production. patients with cms compared with control subjects exhibited hypoventilation (end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure [petco2] = 36.6 +/- 1.0 versus 31.5 +/- 0.5 mm hg, p less than 0.05), lower tidal volume (vt = 0.54 +/- 0.02 versus 0.61 +/- 0.02 ml btps, p less than 0.05), blunted hvr (shape parameter a = 17 +/- 8 versus 114 +/- 22 mm hg/l btps/min, p less than 0.05), and a depressant effect of ambient hypoxia on ventilation (delta petco2 with acute hyperoxia = -3.5 +/- 0.5 versus -1.0 +/- 0.6 mm hg, p less than 0.05). reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 s to vital capacity ratios (fev1/vc) and a higher proportion of cigarette smokers in the group of patients with cms compared with control subjects suggested that at least some patients with cms had mild airway obstructive lung disease. naloxone infusion (0.14 mg/kg) to six patients with cms did not change resting vt, petco2, hvr, or sao2.
insulin-like growth factor binding protein secretion by breast carcinoma cell lines: correlation with estrogen receptor status. breast tumor cell lines have been shown to secrete several distinct polypeptide growth factors, although conflicting results exist for the insulin-like growth factors (igfs). in contrast a limited number of breast tumor cell lines have definitely been shown to secrete the high affinity igf binding proteins (igfbps) that modify igf actions. to characterize the types of igfbps that are secreted by breast tumor cell lines, conditioned medium was collected from seven separate tumor cell lines, three of which were estrogen receptor (er) negative, and four of which were er positive. all three of the er negative cell lines, mda-231, mda-330, and hs578t, secreted binding proteins of 49,000 and 43,000 mr (igfbp-3) as well as 29,000 (igfbp-1) and 24,000 mr. in contrast, all four er positive cell lines secreted 34,000 (igfbp-2) or 24,000 mr forms, and none secreted the 49,000 and 43,000 or 29,000 mr forms. bt-20, a cell line that is positive for er messenger rna (mrna) but negative for er protein, secreted predominantly a 34,000 mr protein. the amount of total igfbp activity released in 24 h ranged between 0.4 and 5.6 nm equivalents of igfbp-1, and there was no significant difference between the er positive and negative cell lines. the mcf-7 cells that produced predominantly 34,000 and 24,000 mr forms showed a 1.8-fold increase in igfbp secretion after estrogen stimulation. immunoblotting and a specific ria for igfbp-1 showed that only the er negative lines mda-330, mda-231, and hs578t secreted this form. northern blotting analysis for the mrna encoding this protein showed that both mda-330 and mda-231 contained a single 1.6 kilobase mrna species that hybridized with an igfbp-1 complementary dna (cdna) probe. immunoblotting analysis of the other cell lines showed that only the 34,000 mr form secreted by the er positive cell lines reacted with igfbp-2 antisera. exposure of the conditioned media from the three er negative cell lines to n-glycanase revealed that the 49,000 and 43,000 mr forms of igfbp were glycosylated and therefore probably represent igfbp-3. we conclude that er negative cell lines secrete three forms of igfbps, igfbp-1, igfbp-3, and a 24,000 mr form. in contrast, the er positive cell lines secrete predominantly igfbp-2 and the 24,000 mr form but do not secrete igfbp-3 or 1.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
biobehavioral factors in cardiac arrhythmia pilot study (caps). review and examination. the behavioral studies component of the multicenter cardiac arrhythmia pilot study (caps) was designed to examine the relation of biobehavioral factors and frequency of ventricular premature complexes (vpcs), efficacy of antiarrhythmic therapy, and disease end points in a study population that had experienced recent myocardial infarction and significant ventricular ectopy. biobehavioral factors included both psychosocial (depression, anxiety, social support, type a behavior, mood, defensiveness, and anger expressiveness) and psychophysiological (heart rate and blood pressure reactivity to a videogame stressor) variables. data were collected at baseline and at 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-ups. of the 502 patients enrolled in caps, 353 participated in the behavioral studies component. at baseline, assessments of psychosocial variables revealed the caps study population to be generally similar to other heart disease populations, and no relation between these variables and psychophysiological reactivity or arrhythmias was found. at follow-up among patients assigned to the placebo condition, biobehavioral variables were not related to levels of vpcs or vpc suppression. cox regression analyses revealed that type b behavior, depression, and reduced heart rate reactivity were associated with increased clinical events, even after controlling for baseline left ventricular ejection fraction, myocardial infarction before the qualifying event, use of beta-blockers, use of digitalis, q wave of qualifying myocardial infarction, and presence of unsustained ventricular tachycardia on baseline electrocardiogram. it is hypothesized that the relation among reduced heart rate reactivity, depression, and clinical events is mediated by diminished cardiac vagal tone.
acute pulmonary oedema following administration of ornithine-8-vasopressin. we report the case of a patient who developed acute pulmonary oedema following a short and uneventful surgical procedure. among the differential diagnoses, the role of ornithine-8-vasopressin is emphasized.
evaluation of current extrication orthoses in immobilization of the unstable cervical spine. an experiment was designed to evaluate the comparative stabilizing efficacy of several widely used semi-rigid orthoses applied to unstable fresh cadaver cervical spines subject to load. cadaver specimens were surgically destabilized at the c4-5 segment. lateral radiographs of the destabilized spine were obtained before and after collar placement and after the application of a 5-pound flexion force. data analysis employing a one-way analysis of variance showed no statistically significant difference in the necloc's, philadelphia collar's, or the stifneck's ability to stabilize the cervical spine against a deforming flexion force (p greater than 0.05). they all provide translational stability while allowing angular changes to occur with application of the flexion force. the philadelphia collar halo system is statistically superior to all three of the aforementioned collars in prevention of both translation and sagittal rotation (p less than 0.05).
primary repair for complete atrioventricular canal: recommendation for early primary repair. forty patients with complete atrioventricular canal (cavc) underwent primary repair at fukuoka children's hospital in fukuoka, japan, between august 1, 1981 and july 31, 1989. the age at repair ranged from 2 months to 6 years (mean 19 months); weight ranged from 2.3 to 22 kg. the surgical mortality was 2.5%. justification for early primary repair was examined. eleven patients underwent repair before 6 months of age (group 1), 12 patients, between 7 and 11 months of age (group 2), and 17 patients, after 12 months of age (group 3). degenerative changes in the atrioventricular valve increased significantly as age at repair increased (p less than 0.05 group 1 versus group 3). the incidence of residual mitral regurgitation tended to increase in the order of group 1, 2 and 3, though the degree ranged from trivial to mild. study of the left atrium/aorta ratio by echocardiography revealed that stable values of around 1.1 in groups 1 and 2 and around 1.3 in group 3 continued during the follow-up period of 3 years. assessment of the diameter of the repaired mitral valve in the mean interval of 26 months in groups 1 and 2 revealed normal growth of the mitral valve annulus. the angle between the repaired mitral valve and ventricular septum, which can be affected by the growth of the ventricular septum, converged to normal range in the mean interval of 26 months. postoperative pulmonary vascular resistance in groups 2 and 3 was higher at 4.4 +/- 2.3 and 6.3 +/- 2.2, respectively, than in group 1 at 3.3 +/- 2.2 (p less than 0.01 versus group 3).
selective intestinal decontamination prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. in a prospective randomized study, selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin was performed during hospitalization in 32 cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels. the incidence of infections was compared with that in a control group of 31 nontreated cirrhotic patients of similar characteristics. we found a significantly lower incidence of infections [1/32 (3.1%) vs. 13/31 (41.9%); p less than 0.005] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [0/32 (0%) vs. 7/31 (22.5%); p less than 0.05] in patients receiving norfloxacin. the lower incidence of extraperitoneal infections [1/32 (3.1%) vs. 7/31 (22.5%); p = 0.052] in the treated group did not reach statistical significance. the incidence of infections [1/28 (3.6%) vs. 9/22 (40.9%); p less than 0.01] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [0/28 (0%) vs. 5/22 (22.7%); p less than 0.05] in cirrhotic patients admitted because of ascites was also significantly lower in the treated group. the decrease in the rate of mortality observed in the group undergoing selective intestinal decontamination did not reach statistical significance. these data show that selective intestinal decontamination is useful to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and extraperitoneal infections in hospitalized cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels.
intestinal ischemia complicating abdominal aortic surgery. a 9-year experience with 2137 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic reconstruction was reviewed to determine both the incidence of intestinal ischemia and the clinical, anatomic, and technical factors associated with this complication of aortic surgery. a total of 24 (1.1%) patients had overt intestinal ischemia, documented by reoperation or endoscopic findings. of these, colon ischemia occurred in 19 (0.9%) and small bowel ischemia developed in 5 (0.2%) patients. the incidence after elective operation for aneurysmal or occlusive disease did not differ, but patients with ruptured aneurysms and those undergoing reoperative procedures for total graft replacement were at higher risk. preoperative angiography was most helpful in ascertaining risk. ligation of a patent inferior mesenteric artery was the most common (74%) feature in patients with colon ischemia. with preexisting inferior mesenteric artery occlusion, impairment of collateral circulation was attributable to superior mesenteric artery disease, dissection or retractor injury, prior colon resection, or exclusion of hypogastric perfusion. bloody diarrhea was the most frequent postoperative symptom and colonoscopy the most reliable means of diagnosis. one half of patients with colon ischemia required resection after late recognition of perforation. all cases of small bowel ischemia were related to superior mesenteric artery disease or injury or use of suprarenal clamping. the overall mortality rate was 25% but rose to 50% if bowel resection was required. intestinal ischemia remains an infrequent but serious complication of aortic surgery. despite a multifactorial cause, identification of patients at increased risk can lead to operative strategies to reduce its occurrence.
simultaneous presentation of adenocarcinoma of prostate and transitional cell carcinoma of bladder. simultaneous presentation of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and adenocarcinoma of the prostate is not uncommon. twenty-two patients were diagnosed as having simultaneous or concurrent presentation of prostate and bladder carcinomas between january 1970 and july 1986. the overall five-year survival was 40 percent, with patients presenting with prostate cancer doing better (50%) than those with bladder cancer (32%). retrospective review of these cases suggests that primary therapy should be directed to the most advanced cancer. incidental prostate cancer may be "cured" with a cystoprostatectomy and, when indicated, radiation therapy added postoperatively for the bladder cancer. eleven patients presented with stage a prostate cancer: 10 of the 11 were treated for their bladder cancer. treatment was usually radical cystoprostatectomy with or without postoperative radiation. none died of prostate cancer. patients presenting with advanced stage prostate cancer have had recurrence or have died of the cancer.
acute appendicitis in the pregnant patient. acute appendicitis is the most common surgical problem in pregnancy requiring emergent intervention. to establish a contemporary patient profile and formulate an effective management strategy, a retrospective review was conducted of 84 pregnant patients who underwent laparotomy with a preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis. gestational stage at presentation included the first trimester in 27 patients (32%), the second trimester in 37 patients (44%), the third trimester in 13 patients (16%), and the puerperium in 7 patients (8%). fifty-four patients (64%) had pathologically proven acute appendicitis; the incidence did not vary by trimester. other intra-abdominal conditions were detected in 15 patients (18%). there were no significant differences between patients with positive and negative laparotomies (or among trimesters) regarding frequency of presenting symptoms and signs or laboratory results. operation occurred within 24 hours of symptom onset in 19 of 54 (35%) instances of proven acute appendicitis. perforation occurred in 23 of 54 patients (43%), all of whom had symptoms exceeding 24 hours (p less than 0.0005). five instances of perinatal death and one case of extreme perinatal morbidity were associated with negative laparotomies; only one of these was attributed to operation itself. no adverse long-term maternal morbidity or mortality occurred. wound infection developed in seven cases of acute appendicitis (six perforated) and two negative explorations. we conclude that (1) gestational physiologic changes obscure the accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis; (2) the natural history of acute appendicitis is not affected by trimester of presentation; and (3) adverse sequelae of acute appendicitis are obviated by prompt operative exploration and prevention of appendiceal perforation.
preoperative stabilisation in congenital diaphragmatic hernia. between january 1983 and november 1986, 26 newborn infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia were treated by early operation at a mean of 7 hours of age. a further 23 infants admitted between december 1986 and december 1989 were stabilised for a mean period of 40 hours before operation. there was no significant difference in survival between the two groups. delayed operation is not detrimental to infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia.
clinicopathological experience with pineocytomas: report of five surgically treated cases. the clinicopathological experience associated with five cases of pineocytoma is presented. all patients were treated by surgical removal without postoperative radiotherapy. in three individuals, 2000 cgy was administered to the tumor as a presurgical diagnostic test, with no evidence of response. all cases demonstrated histological features of pineocytoma, according to the criteria of borit et al., and of the so-called "pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation," according to the criteria of rubinstein. the experience obtained from the present series reveals that these tumors can occur in the initial decades of life, that a cystic appearance and the presence of calcifications are distinctive features of their radiological evaluation, and that they have a good prognosis after surgical removal, even when the histological data indicate local invasion. the convenience of reserving the term "pineocytoma" for these tumors, and of including the so-called "pineocytomas without further differentiation" within the group of pineoblastomas, is suggested in order to achieve a practical clinicopathological assessment of parenchymatous pineal tumors.
a huge intracranial xanthogranuloma in the middle cranial fossa: case report. xanthogranulomas of the dura presenting with clinical symptoms are rare. we report here a case of a huge dural xanthogranuloma in the middle cranial fossa, which caused hemiparesis through marked displacement and stenosis of the middle cerebral artery. although such tumors usually arise in association with histiocytosis x or familial hyperlipoproteinemia, the present case was not associated with these diseases.
histology of the lens in the weill-marchesani syndrome. the weill-marchesani syndrome is a rare systemic connective tissue disease characterised by small stature, brachydactyly, ectopia lentis, and spherophakia. three siblings with typical manifestations of this syndrome were reported. the ophthalmological findings in all these cases were spherophakia, severe myopia, a shallow anterior chamber, and narrow angle glaucoma. two cases underwent laser iridotomy and drug treatment. in the third case the lens was removed from the eye because of injury, and this lens was examined by light and electron microscopy.
interphase cytogenetic analysis in the diagnosis and study of neoplastic disorders. cytogenetic information usually is obtained through the direct analysis of chromosomes from cells arrested in metaphase. recently, advances in molecular genetics have made it possible to acquire cytogenetic information through the study of interphase and terminally differentiated cells. by using chromosome-specific dna probes or probes that are specific for certain chromosomal regions, and by employing techniques of in situ hybridization along with nonradioactive detection methods, it is now possible to detect numerical and structural chromosomal abnormalities from nonmetaphase cells. when used as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis or when used together with knowledge of established cytogenetic findings for a particular malignancy, this new technology can serve to broaden the scope and utility of cytogenetic analysis beyond the limits of the present metaphase-based technology. interphase cytogenetic analysis has application to the diagnosis and study of neoplastic disorders and, thus, has particular importance in pathology.
comparison of lisinopril versus atenolol for mild to moderate essential hypertension. the antihypertensive effects and safety profiles of lisinopril (10 to 40 mg) and atenolol (50 to 100 mg) were compared in a randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial in 144 patients with essential hypertension. after 8 weeks of therapy, seated blood pressure (bp) decreased by 26/15 mm hg with lisinopril and by 19/14 mm hg with atenolol. lisinopril produced a greater reduction (p less than 0.05) in sitting systolic bp than did atenolol. standing bp decreased by 25/15 mm hg with lisinopril and by 19/14 mm hg with atenolol. no important changes in hematologic and biochemical profiles were seen with either drug. eleven patients, 7 receiving lisinopril and 4 receiving atenolol, were withdrawn because of adverse experiences; another 3 patients defaulted during treatment, 1 in the lisinopril group and 2 in the atenolol group. both drugs were well-tolerated and are therefore suitable for first-line therapy in essential hypertension.
dysgeusia, gustatory sweating, and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma. facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors, both during their development and after excision, may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways. the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components. this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma. she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area. occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed. in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses, evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae.
mapping of the locus for x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria (barth syndrome) to xq28. x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria is clinically characterized by congenital dilated cardiomyopathy, skeletal myopathy, recurrent bacterial infections, and growth retardation. we analyzed linkage between the disease locus and x-chromosomal markers in a family with seven carriers, four patients, and eight unaffected sons of carriers. highest lod scores obtained by two-point linkage analysis were 2.70 for st14.1 (dxs52, taqi) at a recombination fraction of zero and 2.53 for cpx67 (dxs134) at a recombination fraction of zero. multipoint linkage analysis resulted in a maximum lod score of 5.24 at the position of st35.691 (dxs305). the most distal recombination detected in this family was located between the markers ii-10 (dxs466) and dx13 (dxs15). these data indicate the location of the mutated gene at xq28.
multimodality evoked potential testing in acute mild closed head injury. multimodality evoked potential (mep) testing, including brainstem auditory, visual, and somatosensory evoked potentials, have been reported to be useful in predicting outcome in severe closed head injury. brainstem auditory evoked potentials have been demonstrated to be abnormal in 10% to 40% of acute mild head injury. a prospective study of 18 patients with mild closed head injury was undertaken to determine the usefulness of mep screening within two weeks of the acute event. long latency event-related potentials (p300s), in response to auditory stimuli with an oddball paradigm, were included in the screening. the subjects had several symptoms consistent with the postconcussive syndrome at the time of the evoked potential testing. only one patient had an abnormal evoked potential response (greater than three standard deviations from the mean) from all the testing done. the standard methods of mep testing were insensitive to quantifying the possible physiologic changes that are associated with memory deficits, lethargy, and emotional irritability after mild closed head injury.
impact of nonoperative therapy on the clinical management of peripheral arterial disease. nonoperative therapy includes conservative noninterventional modalities and the endovascular interventional modalities of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and a variety of laser systems and atherectomy devices. the role and impact of all nonoperative treatments are considered in the perspectives of the natural history of lower-extremity arteriosclerosis and its present surgical (operative) treatment. nonoperative treatments may replace and/or facilitate surgical treatment in operative candidates. nonoperative methods may also justify treatment in patients who cannot or should not be subjected to surgery. facts and opinions relating to these uses of nonoperative treatments are presented, and the qualifications and credentialing of individuals who should be treating patients with lower-extremity ischemia resulting from peripheral arteriosclerosis are discussed.
gene amplification in human lung cancer. the myc family genes and other proto-oncogenes and growth factor genes. the development of human lung cancer may require multiple genetic deletions affecting a number of chromosomes, e.g., 1, 3, 11, 13, and 17. these genetic aberrations may induce the activation of proto-oncogenes (c-jun, ras, c-raf1) and the loss of tumor suppressor genes (p53). some of the activated proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are more selectively expressed or absent in small-cell lung cancer (l-myc, c-myb, c-scr, rb gene) or non-small-cell lung cancer (c-erbb-2, c-sis, c-fes). these genes may thus be of importance for selection of differentiation pathway. the c-myc oncogene is frequently amplified in small-cell lung cancer cell lines in a much higher frequency than in vivo. this indicates that c-myc seems to be related to tumor progression and a relatively late event in the lung cancer development. the uncontrolled production of multiple growth factors has been identified in human lung cancer cell lines. these factors can promote and inhibit the proliferation via paracrine and autocrine loops via specific receptors. the products from some of the activated proto-oncogenes (c-sis, c-erbb-2) are sequences homologous to a certain growth factor (pdgf) and a receptor (egf) identified in lung cancer. the production and action of these growth factors may be of major importance for further activation of proto-oncogenes via intracellular signal transduction and specific oncogenic activation leading to further tumor progression.
frequency and severity of mitral regurgitation one year after balloon mitral valvuloplasty. mitral regurgitation (mr) was evaluated by doppler echocardiography in 59 patients with mitral stenosis before, immediately after and 1 year after balloon mitral valvuloplasty (bmv). the severity of mr was graded on a scale from 1+ to 4+. echocardiographic and hemodynamic variables were analyzed to study the potential factor(s) that might predict the long-term persistence of mr. echocardiographic variables were mitral valve thickness and motion, subvalvular change, left atrial dimension, commissural calcification and effective balloon/mitral anular diameters. hemodynamic variables were mitral pressure gradient, pulmonary arterial pressure, ejection fraction, mitral valve area index, age, gender and cardiac rhythm. mitral valve area index increased from 0.9 +/- 0.5 to 1.5 +/- 0.8 cm2/m2 immediately after bmw, and to 1.4 +/- 0.3 cm2/m2 at 1 year follow-up (p less than 0.01). immediately after bmv, mr grading did not change in 30 patients (51%), increased by 1+ in 23 patients (39%), by 2+ in 2 patients (3.3%) and by 3+ in 2 patients (3.3%), and decreased by 1+ in 2 others. at 1-year follow-up, only 1 patient with severe mr required valve replacement. fifty-one patients (88%) had no change in the extent of mr (less than or equal to 1+) and 6 patients (10%) had a 1-grade decrease in their mr; only 1 patient had a 1-grade increase in mr. no clinical or hemodynamic variables or morphologic characteristics of the mitral valve could predict the development of significant mr after bmv. it is concluded that an increment in mr severity less than or equal to 2+ is frequently seen after bmv.
a diagnostic expert system for colonic lesions. the diagnostic expert system for colonic lesions (descl) was designed to discriminate colonic adenoma and adenocarcinoma from normal colonic tissue. although it was originally developed for use in conjunction with a machine vision analytic system, the descl has evolved into a teaching tool and a model for conceptual machine learning. the expert system is table driven and consists of a shell and a knowledge base. the latter comprises a series of architectural and cytologic observations and a quantitative estimate of diagnostic importance relating these observations to diagnostic outcome. in a validation study of 100 colonic lesions, the expert system achieved a success rate of 98%. it has the flexibility to allow individual pathologists to "customize" the knowledge base to suit their diagnostic criteria.
ocular manifestations of onchocerciasis in a rain forest area of west africa. the epidemiology and natural history of onchocerciasis and its ocular complications in rain forest areas are poorly understood. the present study was conducted on a rubber plantation in a hyperendemic area in the rain forest of liberia, west africa, where 800 persons were examined. the prevalence of infection was 84% overall 29% had intraocular microfilariae, and 2.4% were blind in one or both eyes. onchocerciasis was the cause of all binocular blindness and one-third of all visual impairment. over half of the visual impairment caused by onchocerciasis was due to posterior segment diseases. chorioretinal changes were present in 75% of people, and included intraretinal pigment clumping in 52% and retinal pigment epithelium atrophy in 32%. atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium was associated with increasing age and severity of infection. intraretinal pigment was strongly associated with anterior uveitis. there was a strong correlation between uveitis and the inflammatory chorioretinal sequelae: retinitis, intraretinal pigment, subretinal fibrosis, and optic neuropathy. these findings indicate that considerable visual impairment associated with rain forest onchocerciasis is common and is due largely to chorioretinal disease.
hemodynamic effects of h2-receptor antagonists. histamine h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage. these agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions; however, hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted. clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients. ranitidine, also studied in this setting, does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes. the newer h2ras, famotidine and nizatidine, have not been evaluated in critically ill patients.
a composite driving system for lvas and iabp: practical and effective driving and weaning. we have devised a new method, termed alternate synchronous driving (asd), to wean patients from a left ventricular assist system (lvas) to a pressure assist intraaortic balloon pump (iabp). we have built a new drive unit, vct200, to apply asd easily and automatically. after iabp insertion in the final weaning stage, this method drives the lvas and iabp alternately, with electrocardiogram (ecg) synchronization. the pumping ratio of iabp increases while that of lvas decreases according to recovery of natural heart function. in in vitro studies, asd was effective when bypass flow (bf) was less than 50% of total flow (tf) (tf:bf + cardiac output [co]), and its advantages increased under lower bf conditions. mean aortic pressure (map) and co increased 10 mmhg and 15%, respectively, with this method (iabp:lvas = 1:1) when bf was 30% of tf. during in vivo studies, map increased 75.7 +/- 6.7 mmhg to 80.1 +/- 3.6 mmhg (p less than 0.001), and the co increased from 3.1 +/- 0.5 l/min to 3.3 +/- 0.5 l/min (p less than 0.001), while the endocardial viability ratio (dpti/tti) increased 20-30%. this method was used in a 62-year-old man in which lvas was applied after ventricular aneurysmectomy, bf was reduced from 2.2 l/min to 1.1 l/min by using asd without any change in systemic perfusion. this reduction of bf could not be achieved with lvas alone. from these data, this system could wean patients from lvas and then switch to iabp smoothly, easily, and automatically, without hemodynamic instability.
pathological classification and follow-up of prostatic lesions initially diagnosed as "suspicious of malignancy". sections from a series of prostatic specimens (n = 44) in which the initial diagnosis implied a suspicion of malignancy were reviewed and the patients followed up (group 1). the aim was to categorise the morphological appearances according to current criteria and to determine the natural history of any pre-malignant lesions within this group. a "control" series of patients (n = 40) in whom the primary diagnosis was benign were also reviewed and their course followed (group 2). the heterogeneity of the abnormalities in group 1 was striking. of the 44 cases, pre-malignant lesions were seen in 8, microinvasive adenocarcinoma in 11 and lesions not now considered pre-malignant in the remaining 25. none of the 8 patients with pre-malignant lesions developed clinical evidence of carcinoma over a follow-up period of 8 to 12 years. in contrast, 3 of the 11 diagnosed on review as having microscopic invasive adenocarcinoma developed clinically evident tumour within 5 years of surgery. of the 25 patients whose prostatic lesions were considered benign, 2 developed carcinoma 12 and 13 years after surgery. only 1 of the 40 patients in group 2 had a pre-malignant lesion and he did not develop tumour within 10 years. however, adenocarcinoma was diagnosed incidentally in 1 patient 3 years after surgery. it was concluded that there is a need to standardise interpretation and reporting of pre-malignant lesions and microscopic foci of adenocarcinoma in the prostate. the limited results on the course of pre-malignant lesions diagnosed incidentally in patients over 60 years of age do not indicate that follow-up would have prompted the early diagnosis of invasive disease.
long-term function of persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in the inner city. long-term function of 24 elderly persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in an inner city for at least six months after the second amputation, was determined. twenty-one (87.6%) subjects were living at home; three were living in nursing homes. fourteen (70%) of 20 subjects who received bilateral prostheses were ambulators. at interview, the mean age was 75.2 years; 4.87 years was the mean time since the second amputation. ten (50%) subjects remained ambulatory. among the other ten who received prosthesis, loss of ambulation occurred mostly due to medical factors, at an average of 3.47 years after the second amputation. those no longer ambulatory were older and "sicker," and the interval between amputations was shorter. fifteen (62.5%) subjects were independent in dressing, 14 (58.4%) in toileting, and only nine (33.3%) in bathing. all but one subject required housekeeping assistance. the anticipated effect on function of environmental and socioeconomic factors could not be demonstrated in this sample. survival time and retention of ambulatory skills for an average of nine years after the second amputation in eight (33.3%) subjects who died before the end of the study was longer than previously described. the high rate of success in rehabilitation and in maintenance of ambulatory skills fully justifies intensive restorative efforts for this group of amputees.
comparative ophthalmologic studies on children and adults with craniopharyngiomas. the subjects of the study are 74 patients with craniopharyngiomas treated at the clinic of neurosurgery, bulgarian medical academy, within the period 1960-1989. fifty of the patients are children and 24 adults. the diagnosis of all patients is made on the base of clinical, x-ray and histological studies. the ophthalmologic state was studied in all patients, prior to operation, via routine methods. reduced visual acuity was established in 69.6% of the children and 81.8% of the adults. the presence of congestive optic papilla was diagnosed in 22% of the children and 12.5% of the adults. optic atrophy was established in 62.5% of the adults and 52% of the children. various defects in the visual field were established in 67.7% of the children and 81.8% of the adults with the predomination of bitemporal defects. the use of highly informative conventional and modern x-ray methods is recommended in all patients suspected of compression of the visual pathways.
papillary endothelial hyperplasia in the thyroid following fine-needle aspiration. a 74-year-old woman was found to have exuberant papillary endothelial hyperplasia within her thyroid gland subsequent to multiple fine-needle aspiration biopsies of a hurthle cell neoplasm. to our knowledge, this histologic alteration in the thyroid has not been previously reported. we describe this unusual complication following fine-needle aspiration, and we delineate the clinicopathologic and differential diagnostic features.
false aneurysm formation of the great arteries after arterial switch operation. an infant with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent a two-staged arterial switch operation, after which mediastinal infection occurred. continuous irrigation with povidone-iodine solution was performed for 10 days. after that, the patient experienced life-threatening hemorrhage three times. at the time of the second hemorrhage, greater omental transfer was performed. on postoperative day 109, false aneurysm was recognized, having developed from both great arteries. successful repair was performed on postoperative day 110.
urinary tract infections. urinary tract infections are a common infection for the primary care physician to see in the office. epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, management, and prophylaxis are discussed. information regarding special patient populations, such as pregnant women and children, is also provided.
cross-national changes in the effects of peptic ulcer disease. objective: to describe and to analyze the changing effects of peptic ulcer disease over time. design: variables relating to peptic ulcer disease from 1970-1986 were compared. the variables included rates of mortality, hospitalizations, operations, physician visits, and endoscopies, and the amount of disability-related loss of work and early retirement in six countries (belgium, england and wales, the federal republic of germany, the netherlands, sweden, and the united states). measurements: nonparametric epidemiologic time-trend analysis. main results: the historic, slow, declining trend in mortality and hospitalization rates continued. the rate of operations for peptic ulcer disease exhibited a large, one-time reduction, then returned to a parallel declining trend, but at a lower level. the rate of physician visits declined by 50%. the greatest changes were found in the rate of endoscopy use and in disability-related loss of work and early retirement, where increasing trends were quickly followed by decreasing trends. the elderly, especially women, generally did not share many of these benefits. conclusions: the effects of new interventions can be understood more fully by examining several variables in many countries over a long time. contrary to expectations, the effects of the widespread use of histamine h2 antagonists have been more indirect (affecting work loss and disability retirement more) than direct (affecting high-cost medical service use and mortality less).
twelve-year comparison of a bjork-shiley mechanical heart valve with porcine bioprostheses background. patients undergoing heart-valve replacement may receive a mechanical prosthesis, necessitating lifelong anticoagulant treatment, or a porcine bioprosthesis, which involves no absolute need for anticoagulants. methods. we carried out a randomized, prospective trial to compare the durability of the bjork-shiley mechanical prosthesis (spherical tilting-disk model) and the incidence of valve-related complications with those variables in the hancock and the carpentier-edwards porcine prostheses. the mitral valve was replaced in 261 patients, the aortic valve in 211, and both in 61; the survivors have been followed up for a mean of 12 years. results. we found a trend toward improved actuarial survival after 12 years with the bjork-shiley prosthesis, but this trend was not statistically significant (group with bjork-shiley valve vs. group with porcine valve [mean +/- se], 51.5 +/- 3.2 vs. 44.4 +/- 3.2 percent; p = 0.08). there was no significant difference in the actuarial incidence of reoperation after 5 years, but after 12 years significantly more patients with a porcine prosthesis had undergone reoperation (8.5 +/- 2.0 vs. 37.1 +/- 4.1 percent, p less than 0.001). an analysis combining death and reoperation as end points for an actuarial assessment of survival with the original prosthesis intact confirmed that the patients with bjork-shiley shiley prostheses had improved survival (48.6 +/- 3.2 vs. 30.0 +/- 3.0 percent after 12 years, p less than 0.001). bleeding requiring hospitalization or blood transfusion was significantly more frequent in the patients with bjork-shiley prostheses (18.6 +/- 3.2 vs. 7.1 +/- 2.3 percent after 12 years, p less than 0.01). there was no significant difference after 12 years in the actuarial occurrence of embolism (bjork-shiley vs. porcine, 21.1 +/- 3.1 vs. 26.4 +/- 3.5 percent) or endocarditis (3.7 +/- 1.4 vs 4.6 +/- 1.6 percent). conclusions. survival with an intact valve is better among patients with the bjork-shiley spherical tilting-disk prosthesis than among patients with porcine bioprostheses, but use of the bjork-shiley valve carries an attendant increased risk of bleeding associated with the need for anticoagulant treatment.
rett syndrome: findings suggesting axonopathy and mitochondrial abnormalities. we report the histopathologic findings of 3 sural nerve biopsies and 1 muscle biopsy from 3 patients with rett syndrome. the 3 sural nerve biopsies demonstrated a few ultrastructural abnormalities, including the presence of many pi-granules and mitochondrial changes in the cytoplasm of schwann cells, occasional bands of bungner and onion-bulb formations, and mitochondrial alterations in myelinated axons. morphometric analysis disclosed reduction in the number of large myelinated fibers with normal densities in comparison to those of an age-matched normal control. light microscopic examination of the biopsied muscle from a 6-year-old patient with rett syndrome revealed the existence of many small, dark, angulated fibers with nadh-tr staining. ultrastructural investigation of the muscle confirmed the presence of the dumbbell-shaped mitochondria. peripheral nerve involvement and the possibility of mitochondrial abnormalities in rett syndrome were suggested by the results.
t-cell translocation gene 1 (ttg-1) encodes a nuclear protein normally expressed in neural lineage cells. we previously identified and cloned t-cell translocation gene 1 (ttg-1), a putative zinc finger protein, as a result of its deregulated expression in a t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line (rpmi 8402) with a t(11;14)(p15;q11). we have now characterized its genomic organization and identified the major transcriptional start site to lie within an initiator-like motif. ttg-1 is normally expressed in mouse brain and not in thymus. the mouse neuroblastoma cell line, n2a, also expresses ttg-1. antibodies raised against a trpe-ttg-1 fusion protein precipitate an 18-kd nuclear protein from metabolically labeled 8402 cells. immunofluorescence of n2a cells shows a nuclear pattern. the two potential zinc finger domains in ttg-1 are highly homologous to similar regions in lin-11, mec-3, and lsl-1. this data suggests that ttg-1 may be involved in gene regulation.
epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and ovarian cancer. ii. relationship between receptor expression and response to epidermal growth factor. previously we have shown that epidermal growth factor acts as a mitogen for some, but not all, ovarian cancer cells in culture. in this study we examined the effect of epidermal growth factor on proliferation of normal human ovarian epithelial cells in monolayer culture. we found that epidermal growth factor stimulated twofold to fourfold increases in proliferation in epithelial cells from each of five normal ovaries (p less than 0.01). in addition, scatchard analysis of binding of epidermal growth factor tagged with iodine 125 indicated the presence of high-affinity receptors in all of the ovarian epithelial cells and ovarian cancer cell lines. the number and affinity of receptors was similar in the normal epithelium and cancer cell lines, and there was no relationship between epidermal growth factor receptor number and responsiveness to epidermal growth factor. we conclude that human ovarian epithelial cells normally express epidermal growth factor receptors and that epidermal growth factor acts as a mitogen for these cells. although the mitogenic response to epidermal growth factor often is attenuated in ovarian cancer cell lines, loss of responsiveness to epidermal growth factor does not appear to be due to decreased receptor expression.
tissue expansion of the head and neck. indications, technique, and complications. tissue expansion is indicated in the reconstruction of various defects of the head and neck in instances where there is inadequate adjacent tissue to allow either primary closure of the defect or repair with a local flap. it may also be indicated in instances where repair of a defect by an alternative method such as a local, regional, or distant flap will result in an unacceptable donor or recipient site deformity. although tissue expansion is simplistic in concept, it does require judgment and indepth preoperative planning to ensure optimal results. the complication rate is high for tissue expansion in the head and neck, particularly in the cheek and neck area. despite the frequency of complications, in the vast majority of cases the intended reconstruction is successful.
bacteremia with otitis media. to investigate the occurrence and outcome of bacteremia associated with otitis media, charts were reviewed from patients who were 3 to 36 months of age, had temperatures greater than or equal to 39 degrees c, and were diagnosed with isolated clinical otitis media. a total of 2982 patients were identified. blood cultures were obtained from 1666 (56%). of the 1666 patients, who had blood drawn for cultures, 50 (3.0%) had bacteremia. these included 39 with streptococcus pneumoniae, 4 with haemophilus influenzae, 2 with neisseria meningitidis, 3 with salmonella species, and 2 with staphylococcus aureus. the incidence of bacteremia increased at higher temperatures, being 1.9% at temperatures less than or equal to 40 degrees c and 5.0% at temperatures greater than 40 degrees c. younger children were more likely to have bacteremia; 3.7% less than or equal to 12 months of age, 2.4% 13 to 24 months of age, and 1.9% 25 to 36 months of age had blood culture results that were positive (not significant). reevaluation of the 50 bacteremic patients showed that 9 patients had continued fever, 3 patients had persistent bacteremia, pneumonia developed in 1 patient, and meningitis developed in 1 patient. it was concluded that (1) 3% of young febrile children with otitis media have bacteremia at the time of evaluation, a rate comparable to that previously reported in children with no focus of infection; (2) the incidence of bacteremia increases at higher temperatures; and (3) most febrile children with otitis media do well. the clinician must therefore weigh the potential benefit of drawing a blood culture to identify children at risk for complications against the inherent cost, inconvenience, and discomfort.
approach to the patient with genital ulcer disease. the three major diseases characterized by genital ulcers--genital herpes, syphilis, and chancroid--are common, with genital herpes being most common in industrialized countries and chancroid being most common in developing countries. one fourth to one half of patients with genital ulcers have no diagnosed cause for their illness despite diagnostic efforts. the bulk of these cases is probably constituted by one of the three diseases for which diagnostic tests are falsely negative. there is accumulating evidence that genital ulcers facilitate the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), and they may also be markers of high-risk behavior for acquisition of hiv. appropriate therapy of patients with genital ulcers (as well as their sexual partners) depends on accurate diagnosis. patients with genital ulcers, particularly those with syphilis or chancroid, should be encouraged to undergo testing for hiv infection.
persistent ectopic pregnancy following laparoscopic linear salpingostomy. as the surgical approach for ectopic pregnancies evolves from radical to conservative procedures, the potential hazard of persistent ectopic pregnancy has become increasingly pertinent. from september 1, 1986 to august 31, 1989, 11 women with persistent ectopic pregnancy after laparoscopic salpingostomy were diagnosed and treated at yale-new haven hospital. persistent ectopic pregnancy was suspected in nine cases because of symptoms and in two because of plateauing beta-hcg titers. ten of 11 patients underwent repeat surgery. eight had partial or complete salpingectomy of the involved ipsilateral tube, two had repeat salpingostomies, and one was treated with methotrexate. when the 11 women with persistent ectopic pregnancies were compared with 70 patients treated successfully by laparoscopic salpingostomy using multivariate stepwise logistic regression, smaller size of the ectopic (p less than .01) and fewer days of amenorrhea (p less than .05) predicted persistent ectopic pregnancy after laparoscopic salpingostomy. based upon our experience, we believe that earlier-treated ectopic pregnancies (ie, fewer than 42 days of amenorrhea) and/or smaller ectopics (ie, 2.0 cm or less in diameter) require treatment with particular caution and close postoperative surveillance.
anoxic injury of mammalian central white matter: decreased susceptibility in myelin-deficient optic nerve. the rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white matter tract, rapidly loses excitability when it is exposed to anoxia and is irreversibly damaged by prolonged anoxia. neonatal optic nerve is extremely resistant to anoxia-induced dysfunction and injury; the adult pattern of response to anoxia appears between 10 and 20 days postnatal, that is, during the period of oligodendroglial proliferation and myelination. to test the hypothesis that myelination, or associated events, confer anoxic susceptibility on developing white matter, we analyzed the effects of anoxia on the myelin-deficient (md) strain of rat. acutely isolated optic nerves from 19- to 21-day-old md rats and control optic nerves from unaffected male littermates were maintained in vitro at 37 degrees c, and exposed to a standard 60-minute period of anoxia. the supramaximal compound action potential was recorded and amplitude of the compound action potential, expressed as % of amplitude before anoxic exposure, was determined. the compound action potential was nearly abolished within 3 to 6 minutes after onset of anoxia in control optic nerves, while optic nerves from md rats displayed a slower decrease in compound action potential amplitude during anoxia, with a distinct action potential present even after 60 minutes of anoxia. optic nerves from md rats showed significantly greater recovery of compound action potential (71 +/- 25%) than did control optic nerves (33 +/- 21%; p less than 0.02) after 60 minutes of anoxia. these findings support the hypothesis that myelination, or changes associated with it, may be important in the development of anoxic susceptibility in central white matter.
evidence for hypomotility in non-ulcer dyspepsia: a prospective multifactorial study. a prospective multifactorial study of symptoms and disturbance of gastrointestinal function has been undertaken in 50 patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia. objective tests including solid meal gastric emptying studies, gastric acid secretion, e-hida scintiscan for enterogastric bile reflux, and hydrogen breath studies were carried out in all patients and validated against control data. gastroscopy and biopsy were carried out in non-ulcer dyspepsia patients only. non-ulcer dyspepsia patients were categorised on the basis of predominant symptoms as: dysmotility-like dyspepsia (n = 22); essential dyspepsia (n = 14), gastro-oesophageal reflux-like dyspepsia (n = 11); and ulcer-like dyspepsia (n = 3). in the total non-ulcer dyspepsia population, solid meal gastric emptying was delayed (t50 mean (sem) = 102 (6) minutes (patients) v 64 (6) minutes (controls), (p less than 0.01) and high incidences of gastritis (n = 26) and helicobacter pyloridis infection (n = 18) were found. an inverse correlation was observed between solid meal gastric emptying and fasting peak acid output (r = -0.4; p less than 0.01). indeed gastric emptying was particularly prolonged in eight patients (t50 mean (sem) = 139 (15) minutes) with hypochlorhydria. in the non-ulcer dyspepsia population oral to caecal transit time of a solid meal was delayed (mean sem = 302 (14) minutes (patients) v 244 (12) minutes (controls) (p less than 0.01]. seven patients had a dual peak of breath hydrogen suggestive of small bowel bacterial overgrowth. no association was observed between symptoms and any of the objective abnormalities.
antibody-enhanced infection of monocytes as the pathogenetic mechanism for severe dengue illness. antibody-dependent enhancement of certain virus infections can occur in cells expressing fc receptors. this mechanism plays an important pathogenetic role in the development of complications associated with dengue virus infection, including dengue hemorrhagic infection and dengue shock syndrome. the virulence of the virus, characterized by the ability to infect fc receptor-bearing monocytes also influences the development of these severe illnesses.
primary and metastatic pulmonary meningioma. patient 1 was a 53-year-old man who had a very rare primary pulmonary meningioma that developed in the left lingular segment. when this report was written, 7 years had passed since he underwent operation, and no recurrence of the meningioma had been detected. in patient 2, a 61-year-old woman, multiple pulmonary metastases were confirmed 19 years after she had undergone operation for multiple cerebellar meningiomas, and the metastases were resected. after 2 years, multiple intraperitoneal metastases were found, and thus aggressive surgery was performed. currently, 22 years after the operation for the primary cerebellar meningioma, the patient is alive without any subjective symptoms, although intraperitoneal metastases have recurred. to date, only four cases (all in women) of primary pulmonary meningioma have been reported. case 1 reported in this article is thus the first case in a male patient to be reported, and, in addition, this patient also has the first reported case to have been evaluated for more than 5 years. in case 2, however, each of the excised extracranial tumor lesions was histologically homogeneous and showed a hemangiopericytomatous pattern. the histologic picture of those tumor lesions was exactly the same as the picture of a small portion of the cerebellar meningiomas excised 19 years earlier. thus, all those extracranial tumor lesions were diagnosed to be metastatic meningiomas. however, it is difficult to explain why there had been no symptoms for as long as 19 years until the pulmonary metastases were discovered.
predictors and prevalence of obstructive sleep apnoea and snoring in 1001 middle aged men. one thousand and one men, aged 35-65 years, were identified from the age-sex register of one group general practice. over four years 900 men were visited at home and asked questions about symptoms potentially related to sleep apnoea and snoring. height, weight, neck circumference, resting arterial oxygen saturation (sao2), and spirometric values were also determined. all night oximetry was then performed at home and the tracing analysed for the number of dips in sao2 of more than 4%. subjects with more than five dips of 4% sao2 or more per hour were invited for sleep laboratory polysomnography. seventeen per cent of the men admitted to snoring "often." multiple linear regression techniques identified and ranked neck circumference (r2 = 7.2%), cigarette consumption (r2 = 3.4%), and nasal stuffiness (r2 = 2%) as the only significant independent predictors of snoring. together these account for at least a sixfold variation in the likelihood of being an "often" snorer. forty six subjects (5%) had greater than 4% sao2 dip rates of over five an hour and 31 of these had full sleep studies. three subjects had clinically obvious and severe symptomatic obstructive sleep apnoea, giving a prevalence of three per 1001 men (0.3%; 95% confidence interval 0.07-0.9%). eighteen men had obstructive sleep apnoea only when supine and in 10 the cause of the sao2 dipping on the original home tracing was not elucidated. the greater than 4% sao2 dip rates correlated with the history of snoring. multiple linear regression techniques identified and ranked neck circumference (r2 = 7.9%), alcohol consumption (r2 = 3.7%), age (r2 = 1%) and obesity (r2 = 1%) as the only significant independent predictors of the rate of overnight hypoxic dipping. this study shows that snoring in this randomly selected population correlates best with neck size, smoking, and nasal stuffiness. obstructive sleep apnoea, defined by nocturnal hypoxaemia, correlates best with neck size and alcohol, and less so with age and general obesity.
differential light scattering cuvettes for the measurement of thromboemboli in high shear blood flow systems. newly developed optical scattering cuvettes were constructed as a modification of our existing 1.0 mm and 3.0 mm internal diameter (id) cuvettes to facilitate the measurement of platelet microemboli ranging from 20 microns to 1,000 microns diameter in whole blood in 0.9 mm id flows ranging from 250 to 4,000 ml/min. a perturbation solution to the one-speed radiative transport equation was used in the design and calibration of these cuvettes. a series of tests were performed with these cuvettes in an extracorporeal left ventricular assist device bovine model, and in a recirculating closed-loop flow system containing anticoagulated whole baboon blood, to determine to what extent they affect platelet and erythrocyte function ex vivo and in vitro. serial hemolysis tests, thromboxane radioimmunoassay measurements, platelet counts, and activated partial thromboplastin times were measured. all of these tests with cuvettes in the extracorporeal and in vitro circuits were statistically indistinguishable from baseline measurements, suggesting the usefulness of this system for the measurement of microemboli in blood-contacting materials of extracorporeal circuits and cardiac assist devices.
a controlled clinical trial to assess the effect of a calcium channel blocker on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis to determine whether calcium channel blockers influence the progression of coronary atherosclerosis, 383 patients age 65 years or less with 5-75% stenoses in at least four coronary artery segments were selected at random within 1 month of coronary arteriography to participate in double-blind therapy with a placebo or nicardipine 30 mg three times daily. coronary events (5 deaths, 22 myocardial infarctions, and 28 unstable anginas) occurred in 28 of 192 nicardipine patients and 23 of 191 placebo patients (p = ns). at 24 months coronary arteriography was repeated in 335 patients. progression, defined as a 10% or more worsening in diameter stenosis, measured quantitatively, was found in 147 of 1,153 lesions (12.7%) in 168 nicardipine patients and in 170 of 1,170 lesions (14.5%) in 167 placebo patients (p = ns). ninety-two nicardipine patients (55%) and 95 placebo patients (57%) had progression at one or more sites (p = ns). regression, that is, an improvement by 10% or more in diameter stenosis, was seen in 140 of 2,323 lesions (6.0%) overall, with no significant intergroup difference. among the 217 patients with 411 stenoses of 20% or less in the first study, such minimal lesions progressed in only 15 of 99 nicardipine patients compared with 32 of 118 placebo patients (15% versus 27%, p = 0.046). in this subgroup, 16 of 178 minimal lesions in nicardipine patients and 38 of 233 minimal lesions in placebo patients progressed (p = 0.038). by stepwise logistic-regression analysis, baseline systolic blood pressure (p = 0.04) and the change in systolic blood pressure between baseline and 6 months (p = 0.002) correlated with progression of minimal lesions. this suggested blood pressure reduction may account for the beneficial action of nicardipine. these results suggested nicardipine has no effect on advanced coronary atherosclerosis but may retard the progression of minimal lesions.
evaluation of the pre-s (pre-s(1)ag/pre-s(2)ab) system in hepatitis b virus infection. the diagnostic and prognostic value of pre-s(1)ag and pre-s(2)ab was investigated in 69 hbsag surface antigen positive patients--14 with acute hepatitis b, 30 with chronic liver disease (six chronic persistent hepatitis, 14 chronic active hepatitis, 10 with cirrhosis) and in 25 asymptomatic carriers. pre-s(1)ag was found in all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection regardless of viral replication. in contrast, pre-s(2)ab was not detected in any patients. acute hepatitis was studied sequentially with periodic controls at 20 day intervals. pre-s(1)ag cleared before hbsag in six of 14 (43%) patients who progressed favourably, and the two antigens cleared simultaneously in eight of 14 (57%) cases. patients with early clearance of pre-s(1)ag progressed favourably, thus indicating the prognostic value of this test, which, however, is still of limited practical application given the small temporal difference between the moment of clearance of the two antigens. the first markers to clear, however, were hbeag and dna-hbv, which showed significant differences with respect to the clearance of hbsag. moreover, pre-s(2)ab appeared before hbsab in 57.1% of our patients and was found in some patients before pre-s(1)ag and hbsag had cleared (42.8%), thus allowing complete viral clearance and acute hbv infection to be predicted earlier.
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking: correlates and consequences. recognition that the physical, psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly. we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker (h+) in a population-based (n = 1,155, mean age = 73.7 years) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders; 10.4% of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives. h+ men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers (h-) or never drinkers (n). mortality was higher among h+ men who were current drinkers than among h- or n men. h+ men reported more major illnesses, poorer self-perceived health status, more physician visits, more depressive symptoms, lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h- or n men. self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h+ men, who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination. thus, a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical, psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men.
avulsion of the rectus femoris tendon: an unusual type of pelvic fracture. we present the case of a 15-year-old boy evaluated in the emergency department after sustaining an acute hip injury during track and field practice. pelvic radiograph demonstrated an avulsion fracture of the anterior inferior iliac spine. review of the literature reveals this to be a well recognized, yet unusual and interesting injury.
selective vasopressin inhibition in rats with heart failure decreases afterload and results in venodilatation. the hemodynamic effects of selective inhibition of arginine vasopressin (avp) with a v1 antagonist, (ch2)5yreavpa cl-1-4a, were studied in normal rats (n = 17) and in rats 4 weeks after coronary artery ligation with large myocardial infarctions and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures (n = 22). in normal rats avp inhibition with a 35-micrograms/kg bolus of avp v1 antagonist did not change heart rate, right atrial, left ventricular systolic, left ventricular end-diastolic or aortic pressures. there were also no changes in mean circulatory filling pressure, unstressed vascular volume, blood volume or venous compliance. in rats with infarction and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures, avp inhibition did not change heart rate, right atrial pressure, mean circulatory filling pressure or blood volume, but mean aortic pressure decreased from 103 +/- 3 to 88 +/- 2 mm hg (p less than .001), venous compliance increased (p less than .001) from 2.17 +/- 0.07 to 3.04 +/- 0.11 ml/mm hg/kg and unstressed vascular volume decreased from 42.3 +/- 3.1 to 34.7 +/- 2.6 ml/kg (p less than .05). we conclude that inhibition of avp with a specific v1 antagonist had no effect on the venous or arterial circulations in normal rats, but in rats with left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure after chronic myocardial infarction, avp inhibition decreased arterial pressure and caused venodilatation.
idiopathic first seizure in adult life: who should be treated? objective--to assess the accuracy of the diagnosis, recurrence rate, and fate after the first recurrence in adult patients with an untreated idiopathic first seizure. design--hospital based follow up study. setting--one university hospital and three general hospitals in the netherlands. patients--165 patients aged 15 years or more with a clinically presumed idiopathic seizure; diagnosis was based on a description of the episode according to prespecified diagnostic criteria. main outcome measures--results of additional investigations and follow up regarding the accuracy of the diagnosis; first recurrence; and response to treatment after the first recurrence. results--computed tomography showed major abnormalities in 5.5% of the patients and follow up led to doubts about the initial clinical diagnosis in another 6%. cumulative risk of recurrence was 40% at two years. the cumulative risk of recurrence at two years was 81% (95% confidence interval 66% to 97%) in patients with epileptic discharges on a standard or partial sleep deprivation electroencephalogram, 39% (27% to 51%) in patients with other electroencephalographic abnormalities, and 12% (3% to 21%) in patients with normal electroencephalograms. treatment was initiated in most patients who had one or more recurrences; 40 (70%) patients were completely controlled, eight (14%) had sporadic seizures, and nine (16%) did not become free of seizures within one year despite treatment. conclusions--the decision to initiate or delay treatment should be based on electroencephalographic findings.
the role of neutrophils and platelets in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke. cerebral ischemia is accompanied by many of the cardinal features of acute inflammation such as neutrophil and platelet activation and accumulation. we sought to determine whether circulating neutrophils or platelets contribute to brain injury in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke that includes a fixed duration of superimposed systemic hypotension. we randomized 18 rabbits to receive either antineutrophil antiserum (n = 6), antiplatelet antiserum (n = 5), or nonimmune serum (n = 7). we assessed brain ischemia by measuring cerebral blood flow, intracranial pressure, and infarct size. following the intracarotid administration of an autologous clot, cerebral blood flow in all groups fell to less than 5 ml/100 g/min during induced hypotension. after restoration of baseline blood pressure, mean cerebral blood flow in neutropenic animals recovered to 20-30 ml/100 g/min while that in control and thrombocytopenic rabbits remained at less than 10 ml/100 g/min. intracranial pressure in control animals rose steadily to a final value of 241% of baseline, while a much smaller increase (148% of baseline) was noted in the thrombocytopenic group; no change from baseline was evident in the neutropenic group. infarct size was significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced in the neutropenic group but not in the thrombocytopenic group. these results suggest that neutrophils may be important contributors to ischemia-induced brain injury whereas the role of platelets is more subtle.
nerve growth factor corrects developmental impairments of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the trisomy 16 mouse. the trisomy 16 (ts16) mouse, which shares genetic and phenotypic homologies with down syndrome, exhibits impaired development of the basal forebrain cholinergic system. basal forebrains obtained from ts16 and euploid littermate fetuses at 15 days of gestation were dissociated and cultured in completely defined medium, with cholinergic neurons identified by choline acetyltransferase (chat) immunoreactivity. the ts16 cultures exhibited fewer chat-immunoreactive neurons, which were smaller and emitted shorter, smoother, and more simplified neurites than those from euploid littermates. whereas the addition of beta-nerve growth factor (100 ng/ml) augmented the specific activity of chat and neuritic extension for both ts16 and euploid cholinergic neurons, only ts16 cultures exhibited an increase in the number and size of chat-immunoreactive neurons. furthermore, ts16 chat-immunoreactive neurites formed varicosities only in the presence of beta-nerve growth factor.
clinical significance of hematologic parameters in non-hodgkin's lymphoma at diagnosis. three hundred seventeen patients with non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) (54 low grade, 180 intermediate grade, 76 high grade, and seven unclassified) treated with chemotherapy were evaluated for the presence of hematologic abnormalities at diagnostic staging. anemia was present in 42%, leukopenia in 6%, thrombocytopenia in 13%, leukocytosis in 26%, and thrombocytosis in 14% at presentation. the presence of bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was more likely to be associated with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia than the absence of bone marrow involvement. although anemia was slightly more common in patients with bone marrow lymphoma than in those without marrow lymphoma, the difference was not statistically significant. hematologic parameters were similar for patients with b-cell or t-cell lymphoma. evidence of bone marrow failure with multiple cytopenias was present in 26 patients (8%). leukoerythroblastosis was present in 2%. circulating lymphoma was present in 9.5%. anemic patients had a shorter survival time than nonanemic patients, whether bone marrow was involved by lymphoma or not. survival was not affected by the presence of leukopenia or mild leukocytosis, but, in patients without marrow lymphoma, leukocytosis with a leukocyte count greater than 20 x 10(9)/l was associated with short survival length. thrombocytopenia was associated with short survival time only in patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma. patients with multiple cytopenias or leukoerythroblastosis had short survival times, but the presence of circulating lymphoma did not alter survival when compared with other patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma. these data suggest that hematologic evaluation at the time of diagnostic staging of nhl provides useful prognostic information that may have therapeutic implications.
hepatic injury associated with small bowel bacterial overgrowth in rats is prevented by metronidazole and tetracycline. susceptible rat strains develop hepatobiliary injury following the surgical creation of self-filling blind loops that cause small bowel bacterial overgrowth. luminal bacteria or their cell wall polymers were implicated in the pathogenesis of the lesions because sham-operated rats and rats with self-emptying blind loops, having only slightly increased bacterial counts, did not develop hepatic injury. in this study, antibiotics with different spectra of activities were continuously administered starting 1 day or 22 days after surgery to determine which intestinal flora may be responsible for the development of hepatic injury in rats with small bowel bacterial overgrowth. four weeks following surgery, lewis rats with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics had elevated liver histology scores (8.2 +/- 1.3 vs. 0.7 +/- 0.4) and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels (269 +/- 171 vs. 84 +/- 24) compared with sham-operated rats, p less than 0.001. oral gentamicin as well as oral and intraperitoneal polymyxin b, which binds endotoxin, did not prevent hepatic injury in rats with self-filling blind loops. however, oral metronidazole and tetracycline therapy continuously administered beginning 1 day after surgery diminished hepatic injury (histology score 3.0 +/- 1.8, 2.9 +/- 1.1; aspartate aminotransferase 87 +/- 25, 98 +/- 34; respectively p less than 0.001 compared with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics). metronidazole also protected wistar rats that require 12 weeks to develop hepatic injury following experimentally induced small bowel bacterial overgrowth compared with rats with self-filling blind loops that received no antibiotic treatment (histology score 10.4 +/- 1.3 vs. 0.7 +/- 1.1, and aspartate aminotransferase 273 +/- 239 vs. 76 +/- 20, p less than 0.001). when rats started metronidazole therapy 22 days after self-filling blind loop surgery, elevated aspartate aminotransferase values decreased to normal during the next 77 days and final histology scores were normal. all rats with self-filling blind loops had negative peritoneal, liver, spleen, and blood cultures but approximately 75% of mesenteric lymph node cultures were positive irrespective of antibiotic treatment. because bacteroides species have been implicated in causing vitamin b12 and disaccharidase deficiencies in rats with self-filling blind loops, we documented the presence or absence of these organisms from blind loops using selective culture techniques. metronidazole and tetracycline eliminated bacteroides sp. from blind loops, but polymyxin b and gentamicin did not.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
histopathologic evidence of fibrovascular ingrowth four weeks after placement of the hydroxyapatite orbital implant. we studied the histopathologic findings after placement of an orbital hydroxyapatite implant in a patient. the implant was placed after enucleation for a choroidal melanoma and was removed four weeks later because histopathologic examination of the enucleated globe disclosed tumor invasion of the optic nerve that necessitated further orbital tissue removal. our histopathologic findings confirm that there is significant ingrowth of fibrovascular tissue in these implants, even within weeks of implantation.
cavernous-carotid thrombosis and ocular motor paresis a 64-year-old man presented with the acute onset of unilateral blindness and ipsilateral ocular motor paresis. occlusion of the central retinal artery associated with thrombosis of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus was demonstrated by angiography and magnetic resonance imaging. cases of carotid thrombosis associated with ipsilateral ocular motor paresis are rare. the pathophysiology of intracavernous carotid thrombosis is discussed in connection with blood supply of the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus.
precertification for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in medicare beneficiaries: a melting pot or a need for better national standards? the health care financing administration has contracted with state peer review organizations (pros) in its effort to assure the quality of services and eliminate unreasonable and inappropriate care provided medicare beneficiaries. by law, each state pro must select 10 procedures for precertification. coronary angioplasty has been chosen by 45 pros for precertification and criteria in each state were developed with the advice of local physicians. this report describes the findings of a survey of these precertification criteria in an effort to determine their variability and to compare the pro criteria to published national criteria created by expert panels. current precertification criteria of medicare beneficiaries show significant variability in the priorities and the clinical practice of cardiologists in performing coronary angioplasty, despite established and published guidelines for its safe and efficacious use. it is likely that the establishment of locally based criteria for coronary angioplasty will be geographically uneven and probably have a less than expected impact on the care provided to medicare beneficiaries.
diabetic cardiomyopathy. the purpose of this article was to review the clinical and experimental features of diabetic cardiomyopathy, with particular relevance to the black population. one hundred thirty-seven studies were identified, of which 57 were selected as references for this article. diabetes is associated with the development of cardiomyopathy, independent of coronary atherosclerosis. pathological studies show myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis; microvascular pathology is also present, but all of these pathological findings have an uncertain relationship to myocardial failure. hemodynamic findings of both congestive and restrictive cardiomyopathy have been described. noninvasive studies revealed abnormal systolic and diastolic function in many diabetic subjects, particularly in the presence of diabetic complications and/or hypertension. experimental studies have focused on the mildly diabetic dog and the severely diabetic rat. one year of diabetes in dogs resulted in decreased left ventricular compliance and increased interstitial connective tissue. studies in the diabetic rat showed a marked slowing of contraction and relaxation. chronic insulin therapy reversed the changes in the rat model. combining hypertension with diabetes in the rat resulted in increased myocardial and coronary microvascular pathology and greater changes in isolated muscle function, electrophysiology, and contractile protein biochemistry. many hypertensive diabetic rats died spontaneously, showing signs of congestive heart failure. diabetic cardiomyopathy is a significant cause of heart failure in diabetic subjects and occurs more frequently in those with microvascular complications and/or hypertension. clinical studies are needed to clarify the natural history of this disorder, focusing on the benefits of tight control of hyperglycemia and treatment of associated hypertension. experimental studies will clarify the pathophysiology and contribute to improved therapy. the high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in blacks makes these considerations especially relevant to this population.
the relationship between sex hormones and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in healthy adult men. the objective of this study was to clarify the complex and uncertain relationship between endogenous sex hormones and high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol levels in healthy men. fifty-five healthy adult men were consecutively recruited from an ongoing cross-sectional study of cardiovascular disease risk factors from a lipid research clinic at the university of washington, seattle. subjects receiving medication were excluded. multiple linear regression analysis identified several factors that correlated highly significantly with hdl cholesterol levels, including alcohol intake; frequency of strenuous exercise; age; levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride; and carbohydrate intake. nearly 80% of the heterogeneity in hdl cholesterol levels could be accounted for by these factors. despite finding significant correlations with factors known to influence hdl cholesterol levels, no correlation with estradiol level, testosterone level, or the ratio of estradiol to testosterone levels was apparent. in conclusion, endogenous sex hormones do not appear to influence hdl cholesterol levels in healthy adult men. alternatively, a large proportion of the heterogeneity in hdl levels in this group of men can be accounted for by environmental factors. the disparity between this conclusion and others may be partially due to differences in accounting for these confounding variables.
initial ct findings in 753 patients with severe head injury. a report from the nih traumatic coma data bank. in this prospective multicenter study, the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography (ct) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury. when the ct findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death, the most important characteristics of the scans were: midline shift: compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns: and the presence of subarachnoid blood. diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension.
carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts. thirty-seven patients with carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts (ehbd), diagnosed over 14 years from 1974 to 1987, were studied retrospectively. the most common presenting complaint was jaundice, followed by abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and weight loss. the majority of ehbd carcinomas were located at the middle third of the bile duct (43.2%), followed by upper third bile duct (37.8%), and lower third bile duct (18.9%). the resectability of the surgically managed group was 44.4%. the most common histologic type was adenocarcinoma. the 30-day postoperative mortality was 30.6%. the mean overall survival of the patients with ehbd carcinoma was 11.2 months. patients with distal third tumors had the best prognosis with a mean overall survival of 16.0 months. the mean overall survival of patients with upper-third and middle-third tumors were 10.9 months and 9.4 months. a high index of suspicion of the disease as well as earlier, aggressive surgery may improve patient survival.
correlation between estrogen receptor status and histological malignancy in human breast cancer. sixty-two breast carcinoma patients underwent mastectomy and were analyzed for correlations between estrogen receptor (er) status of the tumor and the histological findings of tumor, age, nodal status, and tumor size. an immunocytochemical assay for the detection of er in breast carcinomas was used to evaluate the staining intensity index (sii) of the er level of the tumors, which was calculated from the staining intensity of cancer cells and the percentage of er-positive cancer cells. the histological differentiation of carcinomas showed a strong correlation with the sii. a statistically significant (f = 10.580, p less than 0.0005) negative correlation was found between the grade of malignancy and the sii. patients under 50 years of age tended to have a lower sii, whereas patients over 49 years of age tended to have a higher sii. the tumor size, and nodal status showed no correlations with the sii in any of the patients. the histological differentiation of the tumor cells showed a strong correlation with the heterogeneity of the distribution of er-positive cells in breast cancers.
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. the emory university experience. the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis has become a practical alternative to proctocolectomy for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and polyposis coli. to evaluate its success, the emory university affiliated hospital experience from february 1984 to march 1989 was retrospectively reviewed. there were a total of 50 patients identified; 84 per cent had ulcerative colitis, and 16 per cent had polyposis coli (familial polyposis and gardner's syndrome). the majority of these patients underwent a two-stage operation, but one-third required a three-stage procedure due to difficulty in mucosal proctectomy or toxic megacolon. j-pouch construction was performed in 72 per cent of patients, s-pouch construction in 14 per cent, straight ileo-anal anastomosis in 8 per cent, and lateral isoperistaltic ileo-anal anastomosis in 6 per cent. of the 50 patients, 36 (72%) have had closure of the temporary ileostomy. fourteen patients have not had ileostomy closure due to change in diagnosis to crohn's disease, operative complications, or ileostomy closure pending. the combined operative morbidity per patient for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and the closure of the ileostomy was 32 per cent. this included bowel obstruction, 16 per cent; pelvic abscess, 6 per cent; and ileo-anal separation, 4 per cent. follow-up on patients with ileostomy closure ranged from 6 months to 4 years (mean, 1.3 years). stool frequency was 5.9 stools per 24 hours at 6 months and improved with time. during the follow-up period, all patients were eventually completely continent of stool during the day, and most became completely continent of stool at night.
complications of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the emergence of laparoscopic cholecystectomy as a viable alternative to traditional cholecystectomy has been greeted with enthusiasm by the surgical community. this new technique is not without complications, both potential and real. the complications associated with diagnostic laparoscopy are well documented, as are those associated with traditional cholecystectomy. all of these may also be seen with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the incidence of their occurrence, however, may vary. it remains too early to evaluate the complication rates from this new procedure, as reports of large series are just beginning to emerge. early reports are encouraging but caution that bile duct injury, hemorrhage, and even death may occur. early enthusiasm for this new method must be tempered with care in its practice if complication rates are to be maintained at an acceptable level and the procedure is to earn a permanent place in the armamentarium of the surgeon.
nonpropulsive esophageal contractions and gastroesophageal reflux. nonpropulsive esophageal contractions radiologically described as tertiary contractions or "corkscrew" esophagus suggest the presence of an underlying motility disorder and may lead to impaired acid clearance. the goals of this study were to determine the prevalence and role of gastroesophageal reflux (ger) in patients with tertiary contractions. thirty-five consecutive patients with spontaneous, repetitive, nonpropulsive esophageal contractions noted on esophagography were studied with endoscopy, infusion esophageal manometry, and 24-h ambulatory ph monitoring. all patients had esophageal symptoms, mainly dysphagia, heartburn, and chest pain, but only three were found to have esophagitis by endoscopy and biopsy. nineteen patients had repetitive, nonlumen-obliterating, nonperistaltic (tertiary) contractions, six had corkscrew esophagus, and 10 had forceful, lumen-obliterating simultaneous contractions (rosary bead esophagus). twenty patients (58%) had ger by ph criteria with mean values: % time ph less than 4, 40.9; %upright ph less than 4, 41; %supine ph less than 4, 44.3%; number of episodes with greater than 5 min of ph less than 4, 12. esophageal motility revealed "nutcracker" esophagus in eight, low lesp in two, and nonspecific esophageal motility disorder in 10. symptoms or severity of nonperistaltic contractions did not correlate with ger. radiologically demonstrable free reflux or the presence of heartburn did not predict ger. we conclude that 1) ger occurs in up to 58% of patients with nonpropulsive (tertiary) esophageal contractions on esophagography, and may play a role in the induction of abnormal peristaltic activity of the esophageal body; 2) ger is usually not associated with endoscopic evidence of esophagitis or characteristic symptoms, and is recognized by 24-h ph monitoring. we speculate that detection and treatment of ger may improve the symptomatic management of patients with nonpropulsive esophageal contractions.
hemicorporectomy: a collective review. hemicorporectomy or translumbar amputation has been described as the most revolutionary of all operative procedures. frederick e. kredel, who first voiced the concept of the operation in 1950, referred to it as halfectomy. demonstration of his cadaver studies established the feasibility of the operation. amputation is effected through the lower lumbar area of the body. necessary life functions are preserved in the upper torso. kredel envisioned hemicorporectomy as a curative operation for locally advanced cancer, limited to the pelvis, not encompassable by standard operative intervention. additional indications are intractable decubitus ulcers with malignant change, particularly in paraplegics; pelvic organs, and bone infection with nonhealing fistulae; and crushing trauma to the pelvis. the first hemicorporectomy operation was reported in 1960. thirty-four operations have been recorded in the world literature. two heretofore unreported cases are added, raising the total to 36. review of these 36 cases confirms the conviction that hemicorporectomy is a humane and ethical alternative to the suffering encumbered by advancing, painful, malodorous malignant disease not treatable by conventional means. while cure rates are not substantial, the best results are reported in paraplegics with intractable decubitus ulcers with or without malignancy. rehabilitation is prolonged and costly. most survivors have been restored to preoperative occupations or other gainful employment.
ureteral obstruction and ureteral fistulas after aortofemoral or aortoiliac bypass surgery. ureteral injury after aortofemoral or aortoiliac bypass surgery has seldom been described in the literature considering the large number of bypass operations performed. some causative factors, such as the position of the bypass, are obvious while others are less clear. however, no attempt has been made to unify criteria to establish a management protocol. of 154 cases of ureteral units with ectasia reviewed ureteral fistulas were present in 19. radiological ureteral obstruction appears to precede fistula formation. symptoms, time of diagnosis and treatment according to the predominant etiology have been discussed. etiological (in varying degrees of importance), clinical and diagnostic criteria, together with a management and therapeutic protocol in which early and late lesions are clearly differentiated were established, while bearing in mind that not all radiological obstruction patterns correspond to true ureteral lesions.
downslope claudication in eosinophilic fasciitis: a fourth type of claudication--case presentations. two patients who presented with discomfort in the calves while walking down a slope were diagnosed as suffering from eosinophilic fasciitis of the lower limbs. following therapy of the underlying disease, this peculiar discomfort remitted concomitantly with the disappearance of the subcutaneous abnormalities. the authors posit that downslope claudication of the calves in eosinophilic fasciitis constitutes an additional variant of claudication of the lower limbs.
brain perfusion in acute encephalitis: relationship to prognosis studied using spect. single photon emission computed tomography (spect) and cranial computed tomography were sequentially examined in 2 patients with acute encephalitis. radiographic computed tomography revealed focal low-density areas within a few days of the onset of symptoms in both patients. in spect, 1 patient exhibited hyperperfusion in the corresponding area, while the other had a normal scan. the outcome of the former was poor, while the latter recovered fully. abnormal brain perfusion, thus, coincided with a poor prognosis. spect may be used to promptly evaluate the focal change of acute encephalitis.
digitalis-like activity in human plasma: relation to blood pressure and sodium balance. purpose: on the assumption that renal tubular cells are more important as the target cells for a natriuretic factor than blood cells, we used a well-characterized cultured renal tubular cell line, madin-darby canine kidney (mdck), cells to monitor the circulating digitalis-like factor in human plasma and examine its role in the regulation of blood pressure and sodium balance. subjects and methods: we investigated the effects of plasma on binding of radioactive ouabain to monolayered mdck cells in order to determine the level of a circulating digitalis-like factor. first, we measured specific 3h-ouabain binding to mdck cells in the presence of plasma from 71 outpatients (34 normotensive subjects and 37 hypertensive patients) after incubation for 4 hours. second, we measured specific 3h-ouabain binding after incubation of cells with plasma from 16 hospitalized subjects (eight normotensive subjects and eight hypertensive patients) receiving low and high sodium diets. results: in study 1, ouabain binding was lower by 30% with plasma from hypertensive patients than with plasma from normotensive subjects (p less than 0.01). there was a significant negative correlation between individual subject's systolic or mean blood pressure and ouabain binding (r = -0.34, p less than 0.01 or r = -0.29, p less than 0.01). in study 2, ouabain binding was also significantly reduced by 25% in the presence of plasma from hypertensive subjects as compared with plasma from normotensive subjects irrespective of sodium intake (p less than 0.01). a significant negative correlation was also found for all subjects between either systolic, diastolic, or mean blood pressure and ouabain binding (r = -0.58, p less than 0.01, r = -0.51, p less than 0.01, or r = -0.55, p less than 0.01, respectively). with the changes from low to high sodium intake, there was a corresponding decrease in ouabain binding (p less than 0.01) and an increase in sodium excretion (p less than 0.01). a significant negative correlation was observed between these two parameters (r = -0.47, p less than 0.05). conclusions: these findings suggest that a circulating digitalis-like factor, which may act on renal tubular cells as the ouabain-displacing compound, is increased in patients with essential hypertension and also demonstrate that plasma levels may be influenced by changes in dietary sodium intake.
south american blastomycosis: ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions. a case of south american blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis. the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed a clinical regression. four months later, he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy, aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death. necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis.
early beneficial effect of streptokinase on left ventricular function in acute myocardial infarction. the effect of intravenous streptokinase therapy on the time course of functional recovery was investigated in a controlled study of 64 patients randomized within 3 hours after the onset of acute myocardial infarction (ami). contrast ventriculography was performed 1 to 4 days after ami and repeated 5 weeks later. wall motion was analyzed by the centerline method in the central infarct, peripheral infarct and noninfarct regions. in patients with ventriculographic data at the early catheterization, streptokinase-treated patients had less severe hypokinesia in the central infarct region than control patients (-2.9 +/- 0.9 [n = 29] vs -3.4 +/- 0.7 standard deviations below normal [n = 21], p less than 0.05). the benefit of streptokinase was more marked in the peripheral infarct region (-1.5 +/- 0.7 vs -2.1 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.001). as a result, the ejection fraction was slightly higher in treated versus control groups (46 +/- 10 vs 43 +/- 7%, respectively; difference not significant). at 5 weeks, function in the streptokinase and control groups had diverged further because of continued improvement in the streptokinase-treated patients. this study shows that streptokinase benefits left ventricular (lv) function by 1 to 4 days after ami, earlier than previously reported. the benefit was not limited to the peripheral infarct region, where ischemia might have been less severe, but was also seen in the central infarct region. the implication is that thrombolytic therapy can improve lv function during the period of myocardial stunning, while myocardial function is still recovering.
impact of echocardiography on the management of patients with mitral valve prolapse objective: to determine whether echocardiography affects the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients suspected of having mitral valve prolapse (mvp). design: retrospective review of echocardiograms and clinical records. setting: military tertiary care hospital. patients: 127 patients with clinically suspected mvp (105) or incidentally discovered mvp (22). main results: beta blockers were used more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms (45%) than in patients with normal echocardiograms (13%, p less than 0.001). bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis was recommended more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms (65%) than in patients with normal echocardiograms (11%, p less than 0.001). presence or absence of a murmur did not influence the decision to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis. patients in whom mvp was incidentally discovered were unlikely to receive either beta blockers or the recommendation for bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis. conclusions: the results of echocardiography affect the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients with suspected mvp.
comparison of pump-driven and spontaneous continuous haemofiltration in postoperative acute renal failure. in a comparison of spontaneous continuous arteriovenous haemofiltration (cavh) and pump-driven haemofiltration (pdhf) for acute renal failure after surgery, 116 patients admitted to a surgical intensive care unit were assigned cavh (48) or pdhf (68). the method of assignment was that a patient was treated by pdhf if he or she was the only patient requiring treatment at that time (only one pump was available); any other patient coming to the unit would be treated by cavh. the groups were slightly unbalanced because there were fewer simultaneous cases than expected. the main endpoints were survival rate, control of uraemia, and additional application of haemodialysis. there were no differences between the patient groups in age, duration of treatment, severity of illness, serum creatinine concentration at the start of treatment, or cause of acute renal failure. both treatments adequately controlled uraemia and fluid overload. however, the survival rate was significantly higher with pdhf than with cavh (6 [12.5%] vs 20 [29.4%]; p less than 0.05). the daily ultrafiltrate volume was significantly higher with pdhf than with cavh (15.7 [95% confidence interval 13.6-17.8] vs 7.0 [6.6-7.4] l/day; p less than 0.05). the volume of ultrafiltrate in patients with ischaemic or sepsis-induced acute renal failure was correlated with the survival rate. this finding suggests that the better survival rate in the pdhf group was due to faster elimination of toxic mediators (of molecular weight 800-1000 daltons) through the filter membrane by high-volume haemofiltration.
immunophenotypic characteristics of cerebrospinal fluid cells in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia at diagnosis. the presence of meningeal involvement in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) may have important prognostic and therapeutic implications. conventional methods of diagnosing central nervous system (cns) leukemia rely on the interpretation of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) cell morphology, which may produce ambiguous results in the presence of minimal leukemic involvement. a methodology has been developed for immunophenotyping small numbers of csf cells while preserving cell morphology. csf samples from 33 children with cd10 (common all antigen [calla]) positive all were examined at initial presentation using both conventional morphology and this combined immunohistopathologic technique. six (18%) of the samples contained lymphoblasts or cells considered morphologically suspicious for leukemic involvement. nine additional samples (27% of the total) had normal csf morphology, but contained increased numbers of calla positive cells. twelve of the 33 samples were also examined for the simultaneous presence of nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt) and demonstrated increased numbers of cells positive for both tdt and cd10. these data suggest that a large proportion of children with all may have abnormalities of csf cells at initial diagnosis consistent with the presence of occult leukemic involvement.
prehospital prophylactic lidocaine does not favorably affect outcome in patients with chest pain. study objectives: the purpose of our study was to determine the morbidity and mortality in initially stable patients presenting to paramedics with chest pain; to examine possible beneficial effects of its use, including reduction of sudden death syndrome in the prehospital and emergency department setting; and to determine if prophylactic lidocaine is associated with adverse effects in this patient population. design and setting: this was a randomized, prospective study using prophylactic lidocaine in patients complaining of chest pain who presented to our paramedic system between january 1984 and january 1988. type of participants: all patients aged 18 years or older with chest pain of suspected cardiac origin who presented to paramedics during the study period were included. excluded were patients presenting with warning arrhythmias, second- or third-degree heart block, bradycardias of less than 50, hypotension of less than 90 mm hg systolic, or known allergy to lidocaine. interventions: patients were randomized into two groups, the lidocaine-treated group and the control group. an initial bolus of 1 mg/kg iv lidocaine was administered to the lidocaine-treated group. a simultaneous 2 mg/min iv drip was established. ten minutes after the first dose of lidocaine, a second bolus of 0.5 mg/kg was administered. measurements and main results: during the study period, 1,427 patients were entered; 704 received lidocaine, and 723 did not. discharge diagnoses included acute myocardial infarction (31%), unstable angina (33%), other cardiac problems (7%), and noncardiac problems (29%); overall mortality rate was 7.4%. there was an equal distribution of deaths between the lidocaine-treated group (57) and the control group (48). six patients had a cardiac arrest in the prehospital setting, and 15 had a cardiac arrest in the ed. malignant ventricular arrhythmias as the precipitating arrest rhythm in patients with acute myocardial infarctions were similar for the lidocaine-treated and control groups. the incidence of adverse effects, including hypotension, bradycardias, second- or third-degree heart blocks, tinnitus, and altered mental status, was similar in both groups. conclusion: there are no benefits from the administration of prehospital prophylactic lidocaine in stable patients with chest pain; therefore, routine use in this setting appears unwarranted.
the anatomical basis of the caecocentral scotoma. new observations and a review. it is shown that the 'papillomacular bundle' of optic nerve fibres, although a concept discussed frequently in the clinical literature, lacks a clear anatomical definition. it is suggested that the explanation for this is that the 'bundle' was originally described in autopsy studies of toxic amblyopia, not normal anatomy. the optic nerve fibre projection and vascular architecture of the caecocentral region of the retina is described. these anatomical features are discussed in relation to a number of possible anatomical explanations for the fact that a caecocentral scotoma is the characteristic field defect found in toxic amblyopia. we have been unable to identify a distinct anatomical feature which might explain this vulnerability but suggest that the problem has not as yet been clearly addressed by anatomists.
enalapril and renal injury in spontaneously hypertensive rats. rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain develop kidney damage that resembles the nephropathy seen in some cases of human essential hypertension. previous studies with a triple drug antihypertensive regimen indicated that proteinuria and glomerular histopathology in spontaneously hypertensive rats might develop despite long-term effective control of systemic blood pressure. to investigate further the relation between hypertension and kidney disease, a group of spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril at 15 weeks of age. blood pressure, protein excretion, and kidney function were measured in those rats at regular intervals during the next year and a half and were compared with untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats and the normotensive wistar-kyoto parent strain. kidney tissue samples from all three groups, collected at autopsy, were stained by immunohistochemical and conventional methods to assess the relative severity and nature of kidney damage. although enalapril therapy was completely effective in controlling the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats, it only postponed the onset of kidney disease. enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats eventually exhibited albuminuria as severe as that found in hypertensive rats. kidney vessel pathology was completely prevented with enalapril, but the abnormal accumulation of mononuclear cells in tubulointerstitial and periglomerular sites was the same as in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats. we have concluded that elevated protein excretion in rats of the spontaneously hypertensive rat strain is not a secondary consequence of systemic hypertension. structural abnormalities of renal vessels also do not appear to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of albuminuria in spontaneously hypertensive rats. other explanations must be sought to account for the close link between spontaneous hypertension and kidney damage in this animal model. the clear dissociation of kidney disease from systemic hypertension exhibited by spontaneously hypertensive rats may also be relevant for human disease.
the exeter dysphagia assessment technique. the exeter dysphagia assessment technique (edat) uses noninvasive equipment to record, simultaneously, "feeding respiratory patterns," the time drink entered the mouth, and associated swallow sounds during feeding. the easily portable equipment enabled patients' swallowing ability to be tested, at the bedside if necessary, using a small amount of fruit-flavored drink. the results appear in chart form. edat findings from groups of normal subjects aged 2-90 years were compared with those from patients with dysphagia of neurologic origin and normal subjects under experimental feeding conditions. the results revealed maturation of the feeding respiratory pattern in the teenage years and remarkable consistency thereafter. differences in the recordings between the normal and abnormal subjects were sufficiently marked to allow the findings to be used in the diagnosis of other patients with dysphagia of doubtful neurologic cause. interpretation of the charts and recorded timings of the oral and pharyngeal stages of swallowing permitted a more accurate identification of sensory nerve, motor nerve, and functional involvement causing dysphagia of neurologic origin and may be used as a guide to the origin of the sensory deficit.
transfection and stable transformation of adult mouse schwann cells with sv-40 large t antigen gene. cultured schwann cells derived from adult mouse dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerves were transfected with a plasmid containing sv-40 large t antigen gene, and 25 colonies of stable transformants were obtained, one of which was expanded and recloned. this transfected cell line, designated ms1, expressed sv-40 large t antigen and showed continuous cell growth with a doubling time of 27 hours. the ms1 cells had distinct schwann cell phenotypes such as s-100 protein, laminin, 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase and p0 protein, as shown by immunofluorescence microscopy. when ms1 cells were exposed to dibutyryl cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate (dbc amp), they extended long bipolar processes two- to ten-fold longer than those of untreated ms1 cells and frequently formed whorl-like alignments similar to palisade formations or organoid patterns observed in human schwannomas and neurofibromas. these results suggest that transformed schwann cells can be a useful model for analyzing regulatory mechanisms of schwann cells, neuron-schwann cell interactions and experimental schwann cell neoplasms in vitro.
survival after hypertonic saline resuscitation from hemorrhage. there has been recent increased interest in hypertonic saline resuscitation from shock and hemorrhage. this study was performed to evaluate the survival effects of hypertonic saline resuscitation. fifty male sprague-dawley rats of average weight of 325 grams were anesthetized with halothane. animals were subjected to blood loss of 21 ml/kg over 5 minutes. intravenous infusion was started 10 minutes after hemorrhage with either lactated ringer's injection (42 ml/kg) or three per cent nacl (10.64 ml/kg) chosen randomly. these doses provided equal amounts of sodium. at the end of fluid infusion, blood samples were obtained for electrolyte determination. rats were observed 3 days for survival. survival was significantly lower in the three per cent nacl group compared with the lactated ringer's group. it is probable that worsened outcome with three per cent nacl was associated with intracellular dehydration.
dysgerminoma of the ovary: review of 27 cases. twenty-seven patients with pure dysgerminoma were seen at the tata memorial hospital, bombay, between january 1980 and december 1984. of the 10 patients in stage i, 2 patients underwent a unilateral salpingoophorectomy (uso) and were kept under observation without any adjuvant therapy, while the remaining patients received adjuvant treatment following surgery. all of the 6 patients in stage ii and 4 of 7 in stage iii had total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (tahbso) followed by postoperative radiotherapy. one patient presented in stage iv and 3 patients presented with recurrence after previous definitive treatment undertaken at other institutions. the disease free, as well as the overall survival, at 108 months, for the 24 cases primarily treated at this institution, is 81% and 88% respectively, and, for patients in stages i and ii, 100% (kaplan-meier estimation). the need for controlled clinical trials to devise optimal therapy in the early clinical stages and use of chemotherapy for advanced stages of this highly curable entity are stressed.
angiographic localization of spinal cord blood supply and its relationship to postoperative paraplegia. forty-seven patients underwent selective catheterization of middle and lower thoracic intercostal and upper lumbar arteries to define the origin of the artery of adamkiewicz. one patient had significant atheroembolism, and a second had transient lower extremity paresthesias. no other complications occurred. the origin was found in 26 (55%), and 21 patients underwent thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with this knowledge. when the critical lumbar or intercostal artery could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis, all 12 patients could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis, all 12 patients survived, and one was paralyzed. however, if the aneurysm repair mandated a midgraft anastomosis to intercostal arteries critical to spinal cord perfusion, seven of nine patients either died or were paralyzed (p less than 0.05). in the group of 19 patients operated on in whom spinal cord blood supply was not identified three patients had a technically unsuccessful operation; two died, and one was paralyzed. twelve of 16 patients who had an adequate, but unsuccessful attempt at localization were treated by intercostal "neglect" and survived. late paresis developed in two patients, but they are walking now. one of the patients who died had multiple systems failure and awakened paraplegic. she had a patent, enlarged, thoracic radicular artery at t-5 which probably supplied to spinal cord and which was missed angiographically. paralysis was associated with aneurysm extent (group 2 and iii b, dissections vs group 1 & 3, p less than 0.05). selective intercostal angiography requires further refinement, but it is safe and offers the promise of understanding the mechanisms and risks of spinal cord complications after repair of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms.
failure to detect human t-cell leukemia virus-related sequences in multiple sclerosis blood. we tested 11 patients with multiple sclerosis for the presence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i)- or type ii (htlv-ii)-related sequences. dna from blood mononuclear cells was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction utilizing three different oligonucleotide primer pairs. two of these primer pairs detect sequences shared between htlv-i and htlv-ii in either p24, gag protein, or in p21, env transmembrane protein. the third primer pair was synthesized based on regions in the pol gene where amino acid sequences are conserved between htlv-i, htlv-ii, and the related bovine leukemia virus. the multiple sclerosis samples were consistently negative while appropriate control samples were positive. we conclude that viruses related to htlv-i, htlv-ii, or bovine leukemia virus are not present in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis and, therefore, that htlv-bovine leukemia virus-related viruses are not likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis.
aaem case report #1: ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. a patient with bilateral cubital syndrome complicated by anomalous innervation is presented. the electrodiagnostic approach to patients with this neuropathy is reviewed emphasizing new developments. the interpretation of the findings in this patient centers around issues of pathophysiology and methodology.
right ventricular dysfunction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. evaluation and management. cor pulmonale is an important consequence of copd. although the incidence is not precisely known, it is seen more frequently in patients with hypoxemia, co2 retention and severely reduced fev1. when present, it limits peripheral oxygen delivery, increases shortness of breath, and reduces exercise endurance. it is also associated with higher mortality rates independent of other prognostic variables. numerous factors may contribute to the development of cor pulmonale in patients with copd, but its primary cause is chronic alveolar hypoxia resulting in pulmonary vasoconstriction, vascular remodeling and pulmonary hypertension. the physical exam, chest radiograph and ecg may be helpful in detecting the presence of cor pulmonale, but because of anatomic changes that occur in the chest, these tests are often insensitive in patients with copd. noninvasive diagnostic techniques utilizing doppler echocardiography and radionuclide angiography allow for detection of rv dysfunction at an earlier stage and in most cases, preclude the need for right heart catheterization. lto2 is the only therapy shown to improve survival in patients with copd. however, statistical proof correlating improvements in pulmonary hemodynamics with increased survival is lacking. bronchodilators, such as the beta 2 agonists and especially theophylline, may have beneficial effects on pulmonary hemodynamics in addition to their effect on respiratory function and are useful in copd when rv dysfunction is present. diuretics and phlebotomy are also useful in improving symptoms in appropriate patients. vasodilators such as calcium channel blockers and ace-inhibitors may improve pulmonary hemodynamics acutely, but may lower arterial po2 by worsening ventilation-perfusion matching or blunt the improvement in pulmonary hemodynamics seen with supplemental oxygen. the long-term benefits of these agents have not been proven and their routine use in patients with cor pulmonale due to copd cannot be recommended.
granulomatous sialadenitis. granulomatous inflammation in salivary tissues is most often a response to liberated ductal contents, particularly mucin, in various degrees of obstructive sialadenopathy. far less often is a granulomatous sialadenitis the result of specific infective granulomas or systemic granuloma-forming diseases. in these instances, the salivary parenchymal involvement is usually secondary to disease localization in regional lymph nodes.
use of arterial compliance for evaluation of hypertension. arterial compliance describes a change in the volume of arteries following a change in blood pressure. the physical basis of the compliance concept and experimental procedures in animals both indicate that the relation between arterial compliance and blood pressure pattern is often unclear. compliance is pressure-dependent because of the biphasic elastin and collagen composition of arteries and, hence, decreases when blood pressure increases. compliance also determines the pulsatile amplitude of the pressure wave by regulating the buffering function of an artery's face to the cardiac pump and, accordingly, its reduction induces a selective increase in systolic level. the questions are whether these theoretical and experimental phenomena can be extrapolated to human hypertension and whether they can be assessed from indirect measurement of arterial compliance by means of a time-domain analysis of arterial pressure and flow waves via various models of the arterial tree. whatever the method and site of measurement, arterial compliance was found to be decreased in different forms of hypertension. this low compliance can be considered to have a causal role in elderly patients with isolated systolic hypertension. in contrast, in patients with systolo-diastolic hypertension physiologic and pharmacologic arguments exist against the fact that low arterial compliance may be the pure consequence of mean blood pressure elevation. moreover, it is suggested that aging acts in concurrence with pressure elevation to decrease arterial compliance, and that in certain hypertensive patients additional factors, perhaps atherosclerotic in nature, contribute to impair the elastic properties of arteries.
infantile cns spongy degeneration--14 cases: clinical update. we studied 14 arab infants with infantile spongy degeneration, 13 of whom were products of consanguineous marriages. they presented in infancy with macrocephaly, poor visual behavior or blindness, and axial hypotonia with appendicular spasticity. brain ct and mri showed diffuse symmetric leukoencephalopathy, even before neurologic symptoms. there were relatively normal eegs. the visual evoked responses (p100) were either absent or delayed early in the course. the brainstem auditory evoked responses showed milder abnormalities, with loss of later components before the earlier ones. deficient aspartoacylase activity in cultured fibroblasts or brain biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in all patients.
effect of sleep-induced increases in upper airway resistance on respiratory muscle activity. to investigate the response of inspiratory and expiratory muscles to naturally occurring inspiratory resistive loads in the absence of conscious control, five male "snorers" were studied during non-rapid-eye-movement (nrem) sleep with and without continuous positive airway pressure (cpap). diaphragm (emgdi) and scalene (emgsc) electromyographic activity were monitored with surface electrodes and abdominal emg activity (emgab) with wire electrodes. subjects were studied in the following conditions: 1) awake, 2) stage 2 sleep, 3) stage 3/4 sleep, 4) cpap during stage 3/4 sleep, 5) cpap plus end-tidal co2 pressure (petco2) isocapnic to stage 2 sleep, and 6) cpap plus petco2 isocapnic to stage 3/4 sleep. inspired pulmonary resistance (rl) at peak flow rate and petco2 increased in all stages of sleep. activity of emgdi, emgsc, and emgab increased significantly in stage 3/4 sleep. cpap reduced rl at peak flow, increased tidal volume and expired ventilation, and reduced petco2. emgdi and emgsc were reduced, and emgab was silenced. during cpap, with co2 added to make petco2 isocapnic to stage 3/4 sleep, emgsc and emgab increased, but emgdi was augmented in only one-half of the trials. emg activity in this condition, however, was only 75% (emgsc) and 43% (emgab) of the activity observed during eupneic breathing in stage 3/4 sleep when petco2 was equal but rl was much higher. we conclude that during nrem sleep 1) inspiratory and expiratory muscles respond to internal inspiratory resistive loads and the associated dynamic airway narrowing and turbulent flow developed throughout inspiration, 2) some of the augmentation of respiratory muscle activity is also due to the hypercapnia that accompanies loading, and 3) the abdominal muscles are the most sensitive to load and co2 and the diaphragm is the least sensitive.
vaccination against tumor cells expressing breast cancer epithelial tumor antigen. ninety-one percent of breast tumors aberrantly express an epithelial tumor antigen (eta) identified by monoclonal antibody h23. vaccinia virus recombinants expressing tumor antigens have considerable promise in the active immunotherapy of cancer, and we have evaluated the potential of vaccinia recombinants expressing the secreted (s) and cell-associated (transmembrane, t) forms of h23 eta to elicit immunity to tumor cells expressing eta. tumorigenic ras-transformed fischer rat fibroblast lines fr-s and fr-t, expressing the s or t form of h23 eta, respectively, were constructed for use in challenge experiments. expression of h23 eta in these lines was confirmed by western blotting and immunofluorescence. when challenged by subcutaneous seeding of tumor cells, 97% (fr-s) and 91% (fr-t) of syngeneic fischer rats rapidly developed tumors that failed to regress. vaccination with recombinant vaccinia virus expressing eta-t prior to challenge prevented tumor development in 82% of animals seeded with fr-t cells but in only 61% of animals seeded with fr-s. the vaccinia recombinant expressing the s form was a less effective immunogen, and vaccination protected only 29-30% of animals from developing tumors upon challenge with either fr-s or -t cells. the increased immunogenicity of the recombinant expressing eta-t was reflected in elevated levels of eta-reactive antibody in vaccinated animals, confirming that secreted antigens expressed from vaccinia virus are less effective immunogens than their membrane-associated counterparts.
deprivation in infancy or in adult life: which is more important for mortality risk? previous ecological studies have suggested that early life factors are important causes of adult cardiovascular and respiratory disease, by showing geographic correlations between past infant mortality rates and present adult mortality rates. however, these studies inadequately take account of the fact that areas which were severely deprived earlier this century remain the most deprived today. thus the ecological relation between infant and adult mortality rates could simply reflect persistence in the geographic distribution of poor socioeconomic circumstances. to explore this hypothesis further infant mortality rates for 1895-1908 for 43 counties in england and wales were correlated with cause-specific adult mortality for 1969-73 in people aged 65-74 years, with and without adjustment for present-day social deprivation and social class. the strong simple correlations found between infant mortality in 1895-1908 and adult mortality from various causes in 1969-73 were generally much attenuated or abolished by controlling for indices of present-day socioeconomic circumstances. our results suggest that previous studies give no strong support for any direct influence of factors acting in early life on adult coronary heart disease mortality risk. studies which gather data about infancy, childhood, and the full course of adult life are required to clarify this issue.
botulinum a toxin for the treatment of adult-onset spasmodic torticollis. thirty-five patients with adult-onset idiopathic torticollis were treated by local injections of botulinum a toxin into dystonic cervical muscles. substantial improvement with respect to reduction and elimination of pain was found in 81 percent, improvement in posture deformity and involuntary spasms in 70 percent, increased range of motion of the neck in 78 percent, reduction in visible sternocleidomastoid hypertrophy in 86 percent, and improvement in tremor in 65 percent. the syndrome was divided into four subtypes based on pattern of dystonic muscle groups involved in the dystonia, head and shoulder posture, and sternocleidomastoid muscle hypertrophy. injection strategy based on this subdivision is described.
insulin secretion and action in patients with pancreatic cancer. the authors investigated insulin secretory capacity and insulin action in 11 preoperative patients with pancreatic carcinoma and 15 age-matched and weight-matched healthy subjects (c). five patients were classified as diabetic (d), two as impaired glucose tolerant (igt), and four as nondiabetic (nd). postabsorptive serum insulin levels (mean +/- se, in uu/ml) in d (12 +/- 2), igt (17 +/- 7), and nd (10 +/- 2) were comparable. after administration of 100 g of oral glucose, peak insulin achieved in d (60 +/- 11) was lower than in igt (101 +/- 26) and nd (83 +/- 20), whereas peak insulin levels in igt and nd were significantly (p less than 0.05) higher than in c (45 +/- 6). comparable insulin response to nonglucose stimuli was documented in all subjects using the slow arginine infusion test with mean serum insulin of 27 +/- 4 in d, 28 +/- 6 in igt, 34 +/- 10 in nd, and 32 +/- 5 in c. in six patients (p) and six controls, insulin action was assessed by the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique, with glucose turnover rates estimated by [3-3h]glucose infusion. steady-state plasma glucose concentrations were maintained at 92 +/- 3 (p) and 91 +/- 1 mg/dl (c). after insulin infusion at the rate of 1.0 mu/kg/min, comparable high physiologic insulin levels were observed in p (73 to 104 uu/ml) and in c (81 to 103 uu/ml). postabsorptive rates of endogenous glucose appearance (ra) were higher in p (2.86 to 3.02 mg/kg/min) than in c (1.50 to 2.80 mg/kg/min). at high physiologic insulin concentrations, negative ra values were documented in all subjects, and complete suppression of ra was assumed. total body glucose use (m) was consistently lower in p (3.90 to 6.40 mg/kg/min) than in c (6.98 to 10.40 mg/kg/min), consistent with a state of insulin resistance. patients with pancreatic cancer manifest insulin resistance by virtue of a decrease in total body glucose use (m) and decreased insulin response to glucose due to either inherent beta cell dysfunction or decreased islet cell mass. the latter is not identifiable by histologic morphology.
isolated trigeminal sensory loss secondary to a distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report. a previously healthy 25-year-old woman suddenly developed right-sided facial numbness and a headache. the neurological examination was within normal limits with the exception of meningismus and right-sided facial sensory loss. a computed tomographic scan and a magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrated an acute hematoma in the right cerebellopontine angle. a 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed no abnormalities. posterior fossa exploration disclosed a large, partially thrombosed, fusiform anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm, which indented the pons at the trigeminal root entry zone. the aneurysm was excised, and the patient made an excellent recovery. she was left with a persistent trigeminal sensory deficit. anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms are rare lesions that generally present with a cerebellopontine angle syndrome; occasionally, facial sensory loss is also a feature. isolated trigeminal sensory findings, as illustrated in this case, are extremely unusual in posterior fossa vascular lesions.
percutaneous aspiration of brain tumor cysts via the ommaya reservoir system. we performed percutaneous aspiration of 21 brain tumor cysts in 20 patients using the ommaya reservoir system. ages ranged from 3 to 70 years, median 48. sixteen were primary tumors (12 anaplastic glioma, 2 craniopharyngioma, 1 oligodendroglioma, 1 brainstem glioma) and 4 were metastatic. fourteen had the ct appearance of a true cyst and 7 a pseudocyst. we placed 18 catheters through twist drill holes via ct stereotactic guidance and 3 through burr holes via ct guidance and effectively aspirated 3 to 50 ml cyst fluid from 1 to 18 times in each patient. postaspiration ct showed complete or significant reduction in cyst size in all patients in whom it was performed (18 after initial aspiration and 9 after subsequent aspirations). asymptomatic intracyst hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients after cyst wall biopsy and catheter placement. there have been no other complications at follow-up of 4 to 114 weeks. in our experience, tumor cyst aspiration by the ommaya reservoir system is as effective as percutaneous needle aspiration, but after catheter placement aspiration can be performed with minimal technical skill, avoiding repeated ct guidance required for needle aspiration of recurrent deep-seated cysts.
flow cytometric determination of breast tumor heterogeneity. flow cytometric analysis was done on the dna content of nuclei obtained from different sites of small breast tumors. although specimens for analysis were obtained within a few millimeters of each other, dramatic differences were occasionally observed in the dna histograms. in a limited study involving 141 consecutive breast specimens submitted for flow cytometry, 52% (74) were found to have at least one dna aneuploid population. in 18% of dna aneuploid tumors, one or more specimens from areas grossly identified as tumor had no dna aneuploid population. because of the proposed correlation of aneuploidy with a poorer prognosis and possible responsiveness to chemotherapy, multiple sites should be assayed when flow cytometric dna analysis is done.
results of the arterial switch operation in patients with transposition of the great arteries and abnormalities of the mitral valve or left ventricular outflow tract. between january 1983 and october 1989, 290 patients underwent an arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries; 30 (10.3%) of the patients had abnormalities of the left ventricular outflow tract or mitral valve, or both. these abnormalities included isolated pulmonary valve stenosis (n = 9), septal (dynamic) subpulmonary stenosis (n = 5), anatomic (fixed) subpulmonary stenosis (n = 7), abnormal mitral chordae attachments (n = 2) or a combination of abnormalities (n = 7). there were two early deaths, one of which was due to previously unrecognized mitral stenosis and a subpulmonary (neo-aortic) membrane and one late death due to presumed coronary obstruction. of the nine patients with pulmonary valve abnormalities due to either a bicommissural (n = 5) or a thickened tricommissural (n = 4) valve, only one underwent valvotomy. peak systolic ejection gradients in these nine patients measured preoperatively ranged from 0 to 50 mm hg. at follow-up study 5 to 30 months postoperatively, the neo-aortic valve gradient was less than or equal to 15 mm hg in all patients; three patients had mild neo-aortic regurgitation. preoperative gradients may overestimate the degree of obstruction because of the increased pulmonary blood flow present in transposition. no patient with "dynamic" subpulmonary obstruction before the arterial switch operation had a surgical procedure performed on the left ventricular outflow tract; none had evidence of subaortic obstruction after the arterial switch.
malignancy associated with chronic empyema: radiologic assessment. radiologic findings of six cases of malignancy associated with chronic empyema 5-39 years in duration were reviewed. pathologic examination confirmed three b-cell non-hodgkin lymphomas, one round-cell sarcoma, one mesothelioma, and one adenocarcinoma. retrospective findings on plain chest radiographs suggested the occurrence of malignancy: increased radiopacity in the thoracic cavity, soft-tissue bulgings and/or unsharpness of fat planes in the chest walls, destruction of bone near the empyema, and extensive medial deviation of the calcified pleurae. computed tomography delineated masses with soft-tissue attenuation more clearly than radiography in all cases. magnetic resonance images of three cases were informative because empyema cavities were surrounded by low-intensity rims, and two of them showed a signal intensity different from that of necrotic tumors. scintigraphy revealed increased uptake of gallium in all cases. ultrasonography was useful for biopsy guidance. every radiologist should know this entity in observation of chest radiographs obtained in patients with chronic empyema, and further radiologic assessment and aggressive biopsy are recommended if malignancy is suspected.
influence of hypoxia on adrenergic modulation of triggered activity in isolated adult canine myocytes. although findings from several reports suggest that nonreentrant or focal mechanisms contribute to the genesis of arrhythmias during early ischemia, the contribution of triggered activity arising from early or delayed afterdepolarizations has not been resolved. we have previously demonstrated that beta- but not alpha-adrenergic stimulation induces afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in isolated normoxic myocytes. in the present study, the influence of the extent of cellular derangements as well as increases in [k+]o on alpha- and beta-adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity was evaluated. adult canine myocytes were exposed to one of the following experimental conditions with simultaneous intracellular transmembrane action potential recordings: 1) low po2 (less than 10 mm hg, obtained using a specially designed hypoxic chamber) and low (6.8) ph; 2) low po2, low ph, and high extracellular potassium ([k+]o) (10 mm); or 3) severe metabolic inhibition with cyanide (10(-6) m). cells from each group were superfused with either the alpha-agonist phenylephrine (10(-5) or 10(-7) m, with 10(-5) m nadolol) or the beta-agonist isoproterenol (10(-6) m). moderate changes in the action potentials were observed under conditions 1 and 2 (moderate hypoxia), whereas marked but reversible changes were observed with cyanide (severe metabolic inhibition). during moderate hypoxia in normal [k+]o, delayed afterdepolarizations or triggered activity were elicited by both alpha- (12 of 13 cells) and beta-adrenergic (five of five cells) stimulation. increasing [k+]o during moderate hypoxia completely abolished the afterdepolarizations induced by alpha-adrenergic stimulation and prevented the occurrence of triggered activity. in contrast, the influence of beta-adrenergic stimulation was only attenuated by an increase in [k+]o. exposure to cyanide completely prevented the induction of afterdepolarizations and triggered activity by both alpha- and beta-adrenergic stimulation. our findings indicate that moderate hypoxia in normal [k+]o is associated with the development of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity. in contrast, accumulation of [k+]o or severe impairment of cellular metabolism is accompanied by inhibition of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity.
conservative management of aortic lacerations due to blunt trauma. three patients with angiographically documented thoracic aortic lacerations were managed conservatively over 8 years due to the nonthreatening appearance of the injuries in two and the presence of an associated major closed head injury in a third. the lesion(s) resolved in one, diminished in another, and remained unchanged in the third. at least ten other cases managed similarly are recorded in the literature. in certain selected circumstances this approach may represent a viable alternative to the current standard of immediate surgical correction of aortic injuries.
risk factors for transmission of hepatitis b virus to gambian children [published erratum appears in lancet 1990 dec 22-29;336(8730):1596] risk factors for hepatitis b virus transmission were examined in 973 gambian children aged 6 months to 5 years. 33% had evidence of infection with hepatitis b virus and a third of these were carriers. a significant association was found between infection and tropical ulcer scars, and between e antigenaemia and the presence of bedbugs in each child's bed. there was no association between infection and traditional scarring, circumcision, or injections. skin disease and arthropods are the two most likely modes of transmission of hepatitis b virus between children in west africa.
role of leukotriene b4 in granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic feline intestine. several studies have demonstrated that granulocytes accumulate in the intestinal mucosa following ischemia/reperfusion. it has been suggested that leukotriene b4 may be released during ischemia/reperfusion and consequently may promote granulocyte infiltration into the mucosa. the objectives of this study were to determine whether (a) leukotriene b4 is produced in the gut mucosa during ischemia and reperfusion, and (b) inhibition of leukotriene b4 attenuates granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic intestinal mucosa. isolated segments of cat intestine were subjected to 3 hours of ischemia and 1 hour of reperfusion. mucosal samples were obtained during baseline, ischemia at 3 hours and reperfusion at 1 hour. leukotriene b4 production was determined by radioimmunoassay. tissue-associated myeloperoxidase activity was used to quantitate granulocyte accumulation in the mucosal samples. in untreated animals, mucosal leukotriene b4 concentration was higher at reperfusion compared with baseline levels. the reperfusion-induced increase in mucosal leukotriene b4 was entirely prevented by pretreatment with either nordihydroguaiaretic acid (sigma chemical co., st. louis, mo) or l663,536 (merck-frosst, montreal, quebec, canada), two potent lipoxygenase inhibitors. both lipoxygenase inhibitors, as well as leukotriene b4 antagonist (sc-41930) significantly attenuated the reperfusion-induced infiltration of granulocytes. these results indicate that leukotriene b4 plays an important role in mediating the granulocyte accumulation elicited by reperfusion of the ischemic bowel.
tension pneumopericardium as a complication of single-lung transplantation. tension pneumopericardium is distinctly uncommon in the adult population. we present a case of tension pneumopericardium as a complication of lung transplantation in a 54-year-old woman with thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension who underwent single-lung transplantation.
postischemic seizures and necrotizing ischemic brain damage: neuroprotective effect of postischemic diazepam and insulin. insulin has recently been shown experimentally to modify ischemic brain damage when administered either before or after the episode of ischemia. in controlled studies in the rat, high doses of insulin (greater than or equal to 8 iu/kg) result in seizures and early death. the present study was undertaken to determine whether diazepam, a potent, centrally penetrating gabamimetic, alone or in combination with insulin, could mitigate postischemic seizures or regional selective neuronal necrosis and infarction. forebrain ischemia was induced in rats for 10 1/2 minutes by carotid clamping and hypotension. the animals were observed clinically until elective perfusion-fixation and quantitative pathologic examination at 1-week recovery. diazepam, either alone or with insulin, reduced regional brain necrosis and reduced the seizure rate. insulin alone also led to reduced regional necrosis. however, the combination of diazepam plus insulin yielded the greatest proportion of undamaged brains in the hippocampus, thalamus, and midbrain. in the neocortex, the diazepam-only group showed the greatest number of normal hemispheres. hypothalamic infarction was eliminated by all three treatments. seizures per se were associated with increased damage in the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and brainstem, irrespective of treatment group. the findings indicate that ischemic brain necrosis can be mitigated by diazepam and insulin treatment begun in the immediate postischemic period.
miliary tuberculosis presenting as hepatic and renal failure. a 67-year-old man developed hepatic and renal failure over a six-day period. despite full supportive measures, he died on his 11th day of hospitalization with fulminant dic and hepatic, renal, and respiratory failure. postmortem examination revealed acid-fast bacilli in virtually all organ systems. miliary tuberculosis should be considered as a potentially treatable cause of hepatic failure.
patient perceptions. the cancer patient's perceptions about treatment, prognosis, and long-term care have emerged in the context of interaction with the changing healthcare system. a brief overview of cancer patients' perceptions regarding their disease and subsequent care is provided. the economic, organizational, and technological environment in which this care is provided and the patient's perceptions of that environment are discussed. in addition to economic pressures, the ever-increasing number of cancer patients, prolonged survival, and patients' perceptions have created changes in the healthcare system. these changes are mediated by important socioeconomic, cultural, and demographic characteristics of the cancer patient. recommendations to address these changes are discussed.
improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis by transesophageal echocardiography background. echocardiography is recognized as the method of choice for the noninvasive detection of valvular vegetations in patients with infective endocarditis, with transesophageal echocardiography being more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography. the diagnosis of associated abscesses by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult or even impossible in many cases, however, and it is not known whether transesophageal echocardiography is any better. methods. to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis, we studied prospectively by two-dimensional transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography 118 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis of 137 native or prosthetic valves that was documented during surgery or at autopsy. results. during surgery or at autopsy, 44 patients (37.3 percent) had a total of 46 definite regions of abscess. abscesses were more frequent in aortic-valve endocarditis than in infections of other valves, and the infecting organism was more often staphylococcus (52.3 percent of cases) in patients with abscesses than in those without abscesses (16.2 percent). the hospital mortality rate was 22.7 percent in patients with abscesses, as compared with 13.5 percent in patients without abscesses. whereas transthoracic echocardiography identified only 13 of the 46 areas of abscess, the transesophageal approach allowed the detection of 40 regions (p less than 0.001). sensitivity and specificity for the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis were 28.3 and 98.6 percent, respectively, for transthoracic echocardiography and 87.0 and 94.6 percent for transesophageal echocardiography; positive and negative predictive values were 92.9 and 68.9 percent, respectively, for the transthoracic approach and 90.9 and 92.1 percent for the transesophageal approach. variation between observers was 3.4 percent for transthoracic and 4.2 percent for transesophageal echocardiography. conclusions. the data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a significant improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis. the technique facilitates the identification of patients with endocarditis who have an increased risk of death and permits earlier treatment.
relationship of transfusion and infectious complications after gastric carcinoma operations. to determine the effect of transfusion on the incidence of postoperative infection, a retrospective cohort study of 196 patients who underwent surgery for gastric carcinoma in the period from 1985 through 1989 was carried out. seventy-one patients (36.2%) developed postoperative septic complications; they had received an average of 4.2 blood units, as compared with 2.7 units received by patients not affected (p less than 0.0053). the hypothesis of dose-response relationship is supported by the mantel-haenszel test, as applied to the overall results (p less than 0.01) and the results grouped by duration of operation (p less than 0.02). furthermore, logistic regression analysis shows transfusion to be an independent risk factor in the incidence of infection (p less than 0.01), as are antibiotic prophylaxis (p less than 0.015), urinary tract catheterization (p less than 0.002), and the duration of surgery (p less than 0.027). this significance is attained after adjustment for age, gender, period of evolution of symptoms; preoperative infection(s), number of white cells, hemoglobin level and total proteins on diagnosis, location of tumor, tumor, nodes, and metastasis staging, operative technique, drainage of the area of operation, enteral nutrition, and the histologic studies and macroscopic appearance of the tumor. this study is further evidence that transfusion may cause an increased incidence of postoperative infection.
successful treatment of an excimer laser-associated coronary artery perforation with the stack perfusion catheter. a 64-year-old woman underwent excimer laser angioplasty of the right coronary artery. the procedure was complicated by perforation, which was successfully managed without complication with a stack perfusion catheter. this report describes successful nonsurgical treatment of laser-induced coronary perforation and makes recommendations for avoiding this complication in other patients.
inflammatory atypia on cervical smears. a diagnostic dilemma for the gynecologist. in light of the current controversy on the significance, follow-up and management of women with cervical smears showing "inflammatory atypia" (ia), a study was conducted to correlate the initial cytologic diagnosis of ia with the follow-up findings in colposcopically directed cervical biopsies and smears. from march 1988 through june 1989, 70 women had two consecutive smears reported as ia; all underwent colposcopy and cervical biopsy. in 58 patients (83%) the biopsies and smears obtained during colposcopy were negative for condyloma and/or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin). ten patients (14%) had condylomas, and two (3%) had condylomas with cin (one cin i and one ii). the initial ia smears from those 12 patients were reviewed retrospectively: 2 showed condylomas (they had been undercalled), 5 were "suggestive of condyloma" (the atypical cells were too few or poorly preserved for a definitive diagnosis), and 5 showed ia. none showed cytologic evidence of cin, most probably because of sampling error. our results suggest that colposcopy is warranted after two consecutive diagnoses of ia on cervical smears, considering that 17% of the patients in our study showed underlying intraepithelial lesions of the cervix.
tumor necrosis factor regulates the expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-3 receptors on human acute myeloid leukemia cells. tumor necrosis factor (tnf) acts as a potent enhancer of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf)- and interleukin-3 (il-3)-induced human acute myeloid leukemia (aml) growth in vitro. we have analyzed the effects of tnf alpha on the expression of gm-csf and il-3 receptors on aml cells. incubation of blasts from seven patients with aml in serum-free medium with tnf (10(3) u/ml) and subsequent binding studies using 125i-gm-csf and 125i-il-3 show that tnf increases the specific binding of gm-csf (30% to 280%) and il-3 (40% to 600%) in all cases. from scatchard plot analysis it appears that tnf upregulates (1) low-affinity gm-csf binding sites, (2) common high-affinity il-3/gm-csf binding sites, and (3) unique (non-gm-csf binding) il-3 binding sites. the effect of tnf is dose dependent and is half maximal at a concentration of 100 u/ml, and becomes evident at 18 hours of incubation with tnf at 37 degrees c, but not at 0 degree c. the gm-csf dose-response curve of aml-colony-forming units plateaus at a higher level in the presence of tnf, which indicates that additional numbers of cells become responsive to gm-csf. incubation of aml blasts with the phorbol ester 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate or formyl-met-leu-phe (protein kinase c activators) does not influence gm-csf receptor expression, suggesting that receptor upregulation by tnf is not mediated through activation of protein kinase c. on the other hand, the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide abrogates receptor upregulation induced by tnf. in contrast to these findings in aml, tnf does not upregulate gm-csf receptor numbers on blood granulocytes or monocytes. we conclude that tnf exerts positive effects on growth factor receptor expression of hematopoietic cells.
intraoperative echocardiography of a dislodged bjork-shiley mitral valve disc. the successful management of a patient who suffered an outlet strut fracture of a bjork-shiley 60-degree convexo-concave mitral valve prosthesis is reported. emergency operation was life-saving. preoperative echocardiography assisted in making a prompt diagnosis, and intraoperative echocardiography allowed the detection and removal of the dislodged disc from the left ventricle at the time of the operation. the role of intraoperative echocardiography in the diagnosis of prosthetic strut fracture is emphasized.
pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy, with review of the literature. we report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies. he developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations, nutrition being maintained intravenously. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst. he thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst, but repeat ercp shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains. pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed. a third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life. a search for the underlying cause should include an ercp to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts.
intracranial pressure and cerebrospinal fluid outflow conductance in healthy subjects. conductance of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) outflow (cout) is an important parameter to be considered in patients with csf circulation abnormalities. in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus it is the single most important parameter in determining if the patient needs csf shunting. the lower normal limit for cout has been estimated from the effect of shunting in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus, from patients retrospectively reevaluated after recovering from illness, and from patients with known abnormalities in the brain or the csf system. the true value of cout in normal individuals, however, has hitherto not been reported. in the present study, cout has been measured by a lumbar infusion test in eight young volunteers with no suspicion of disease. the mean intracranial pressure (icp) was 11 mm hg and a linear relationship was found between csf absorption and icp. the mean cout was 0.11 ml/min/mm hg and the lower 95% confidence level was 0.10 ml/min/mm hg. these values are in accordance with those obtained from previous studies.
palliation of malignant esophageal obstruction. progressive dysphagia is common in patients with advanced esophageal carcinoma. multiple nonsurgical techniques are available to provide palliation and improved nutrition. simple dilatation is the oldest technique and newer methods may offer greater efficacy. laser therapy now provides an excellent opportunity to treat obstructing tumors. placement of an esophageal prosthesis may become particularly useful when dilatation must be performed too frequently or has become ineffective or in the patient with an esophageal-pulmonary fistula. newer techniques including bicap tumor probe, intracavitary radiotherapy, or absolute alcohol injection offer promise. this review discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these different palliative techniques for patients with the extremely poor prognosis associated with esophageal cancer.
operative choledochoscopy: common bile duct exploration is incomplete without it. this paper reviews the reported experience of operative choledochoscopy. development of choledochoscopes to the currently available rigid and flexible instruments is described. the collected results of both rigid and flexible choledochoscopy are reported. retained stones occurred in 97 of 2712 stone-positive explorations with the rigid choledochoscope (3.6 per cent) and in 35 of 1726 stone-positive explorations with the flexible choledochoscope (2.0 per cent). choledochoscopy should now be a mandatory part of common bile duct exploration.
characterization of the in vitro maturation of monocytes and the susceptibility to hiv infection. the in vitro maturation of peripheral blood monocytes to macrophages can be followed morphologically, and by measurement of cell surface antigens (cd4, hla-dr, and fcr iii) and lysozyme production. we used these markers to correlate monocyte maturation with susceptibility to human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. maturation of peripheral blood monocytes is associated with a decrease in membrane cd4, while hla-dr and fcr iii expression increase along with lysozyme secretion. cells at all stages of maturation were susceptible to hiv infection, even mature macrophages without cd4 detectably by immunofluorescent staining. maximal replication was observed in 7-day-old cells.
therapy of persistent human papillomavirus disease with two different interferon species. consensus interferon and interferon alfa-2a were used to treat patients with persistent human papillomavirus disease. thirty-one patients were treated with either consensus interferon or a placebo (25 received active drug and 6 received placebo), and 24 patients were treated with interferon alfa-2a. of the 25 patients who received consensus interferon, 19 (76%) showed either complete or partial clearing of condyloma 10 and 16 weeks after initiation of therapy; in 22 of the 24 patients (91%) who received interferon alfa-2a, clearing was demonstrated after a similar time period. thirty of 34 patients who had no response or a partial response requested additional therapy, and 20 of these patients treated with adjunctive therapy had a complete response. the results of this study support the efficacy of both interferons in the treatment of overt condyloma acuminatum and suggest that interferon enhances subsequent adjunctive therapy.
flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis of synchronously occurring multiple malignant tumors of the female genital tract. in this study the authors applied flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis to multiple female genital tract malignant tumors in 43 patients, most of whom (n = 37) had bilateral ovarian cancer. an algorithm was developed for calculation of the likelihood ratio of the probabilities that measured dna index differences between multiple tumor localizations within the same patient could be attributed to measurement variation or to true biologic dna content differences. the results of this statistical analysis show that in 72% of the cases (31 of 43) this probability ratio exceeded 1. because the probability that two independent tumors will have a near-identical aneuploid dna content is very low, this finding supports a metastatic process rather than the occurrence of multiple primary tumors in these patients. thus, flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis can be helpful in the identification of metastatic disease in patients with multiple female genital tract malignant tumors.
acute t-cell leukemia/lymphoma mimicking hodgkin's disease with secondary htlv i seroconversion. the authors observed a pleiomorphic lymphoma mimicking hodgkin's lymphoma in a french guyana black woman lacking antibodies for human t-cell lymphoma/leukemia virus type i (htlv i). after two courses of chemotherapy with either mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (mopp) or doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincaleukoblastine, and dacarbazine (abvd), a typical acute t-cell leukemia/lymphoma developed with htlv i seroconversion. specific htlv i dna sequences were detected using the polymerase chain reaction (pcr) on a lymph node biopsy obtained before chemotherapy. the mechanisms of the seroconversion are discussed.
diffuse hemangiomatosis of the spleen: splenic hemangiomatosis presenting with giant splenomegaly, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. in an elderly patient with oligosymptomatic giant splenomegaly, clinical and laboratory data were nondiagnostic, while nonhomogeneous splenic enlargement was the only finding detected by imaging procedures. splenectomy was performed and diffuse hemangiomatosis of predominantly capillary-type found. the failure of imaging techniques to even hint at the nature of the underlying disorder is comprehensible in view of the organ being essentially replaced in toto by the abnormal vascular channels. diffuse splenic hemangiomatosis, a rare condition, may cause hypersplenism, and its diagnosis may be elusive because of misleading patterns on imaging.
chronic neutropenia. a new canine model induced by human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. normal dogs were treated with recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhg-csf) at 10 micrograms/kg/day for 30 d, which caused an initial neutrophilia, followed by a prolonged period of chronic neutropenia. a control dog treated with recombinant canine g-csf (rcg-csf) showed persistent neutrophilia over 3 mo. serum from dogs during neutropenia contained an antibody to rhg-csf, which neutralized the stimulatory effects of both rhg-csf and rcg-csf on dog marrow neutrophilic progenitor cell growth and on nfs-60 cell proliferation. 4 mo after discontinuation of rhg-csf, the dogs' neutrophil counts returned to the normal range. rechallenge with the rhg-csf re-induced severe neutropenia in 1 wk. neutropenia was transferred by plasma infusion from a neutropenic dog to a previously normal dog. these data suggest that human rhg-csf immunizes normal dogs and thereby induces neutralization of endogenous canine g-csf and neutropenia. this model system should allow more precise definition of the in vivo role of g-csf.
listerial myocarditis in cardiac transplantation. clinical signs of heart failure developed in two cardiac transplant recipients and were interpreted initially as graft rejection. morphologic examination of explanted hearts revealed myocarditis with abscess formation and necrosis consistent with a bacterial process; listeria monocytogenes was isolated from myocardial tissue in the first case and from blood in both. the first patient also developed signs of meningoencephalitis, but the second had no signs of infection outside the heart. antimicrobial therapy and retransplantation were successful in eradicating listeriosis. the differential diagnosis of heart failure in cardiac transplant recipients includes infectious myocarditis due to l. monocytogenes.
post-cannulation radial artery aneurysm--a rare complication. the following case report describes an expanding aneurysmal dilatation of the radial artery which developed 17 days following cannulation. possible causes of this complication are: abnormal state of the vessel wall, multiple attempts at cannulation, and haematoma or infection at cannulation site. other major and minor sequelae following arterial cannulation are reviewed.
sudden cardiac death during exercise in a weight lifter using anabolic androgenic steroids: pathological and toxicological findings. a 21-year-old, previously healthy weight lifter collapsed during a bench press workout. he had taken anabolic androgenic steroids parenterally for the previous several months. pertinent autopsy findings included marked cardiac and renal hypertrophy and hepatosplenomegaly, with regional myocardial fibrosis and focal myocardial necrosis. nandrolone (19-nor-testosterone) metabolites were identified in postmortem urine. the possible etiologies of the cardiac findings are discussed.
transcriptional regulation of ferritin messenger ribonucleic acid levels by insulin in cultured rat glioma cells. recent data have shown that ferritin, a ubiquitous protein, has a role as a regulator of cellular differentiation. in the present study we have investigated the expression of ferritin mrnas in cultured c6 cells, a rat glioma cell line, in response to insulin, which has an important role in cellular growth and differentiation. insulin stimulated steady state levels of both ferritin heavy chain and ferritin light chain mrnas. an increase in the level of ferritin heavy or light chain mrna was detected after 2 h of incubation with insulin, and a plateau was reached after 48 h for heavy chain mrna and after 72 h for light chain mrna. the responses were dose-dependent and were maximal at 100 nm for both mrnas. treatment of cells with actinomycin-d showed that insulin had no effect on the posttranscriptional stability of these mrnas. actinomycin-d inhibited insulin-induced accumulation of both mrnas, suggesting transcriptional stimulation of ferritin genes by insulin. a nuclear run-on assay showed that the insulin-induced increase in ferritin heavy chain mrna was due to an increase in the rate of gene transcription. we also demonstrated that insulin-like growth factor-i (igf-i) increased ferritin heavy and light chain mrna levels in a dose-dependent fashion, and that the maximum effect was obtained at a concentration of 10 nm on both mrna levels. igf-i was not only 10-fold more potent, but the absolute level of maximum stimulation was also about 2-fold greater than that for insulin. the combination of insulin (100 nm) and igf-i (10 nm) showed no additive effect. the results suggested that the ferritin heavy and light chain genes are transcriptionally regulated by insulin and influenced by igf-i.
effect of captopril injection in patients with moderate to severe hypertension. the effect of intravenous captopril was studied in 24 white patients who had moderate to severe hypertension. patients received incremental doses of 1 to 10 mg delivered at 10 min intervals over 50 to 80 min. blood pressure (bp) was lowered within 5 to 10 min after the initial dose was administered and continued to decline, reaching a maximum response after 20 min (2 to 4 mg). at this time group mean bp fell from 175 +/- 3/111 +/- 1 to 166 +/- 3/97 +/- 2 mm hg (p less than 0.01). additional dose increments to an average cumulative dose of 40 mg did not increase the initial effect. no adverse side effects or symptomatic hypotension occurred in any subject. there was a significant correlation between diastolic bp decreases observed in response to intravenous captopril and subsequent long-term oral captopril therapy. the addition of hydrochlorothiazide increased the proportion of patients reaching normotension. we conclude that small intravenous bolus injections of captopril appear to be effective rapidly and are well tolerated in moderate to severe essential hypertension. short-term intravenous administration seems to predict the response to chronic oral captopril therapy.
restenosis after directional coronary atherectomy: differences between primary atheromatous and restenosis lesions and influence of subintimal tissue resection. rates of restenosis were evaluated in 70 patients (74 lesions) after successful directional coronary atherectomy. the extent of vascular tissue resection was correlated with restenosis rates for coronary (n = 59) and vein bypass graft (n = 15) lesions. after 6 months, the overall restenosis rate was 50% (37 of 74 lesions); it was 42% (15 of 36 lesions) when intima alone was resected, 50% (7 of 14 lesions) when media was resected and 63% (15 of 24 lesions) when adventitia was resected. subintimal tissue resection increased the restenosis rate for vein grafts (43% with intimal resection versus 100% with subintimal resection, p = 0.01) but not for coronary arteries (50% versus 48%). there was no overall difference in restenosis rates after atherectomy between primary lesions and restenosis lesions that occurred after balloon angioplasty (46% versus 54%). among postballoon angioplasty restenosis lesions, a higher rate of restenosis after atherectomy was found with subintimal than with intimal resection (78% versus 32%, p = 0.01). tissues from patients undergoing a second atherectomy for restenosis after initial atherectomy (n = 8) demonstrated neointimal hyperplasia that appeared histologically identical to restenotic tissue developing after balloon angioplasty (n = 37). these data suggest that the cellular response to directional coronary atherectomy is characterized by neointimal proliferation similar to that which may develop after balloon angioplasty. the extent of fibrous hyperplasia appears to be related to the depth of tissue resection in vein graft lesions and coronary artery restenosis lesions that occur after balloon angioplasty but not in primary atheromatous coronary artery lesions.
bone marrow findings after treatment with recombinant human interleukin-3. in a phase i/ii study, bone marrow biopsy specimens and aspirates of 20 patients with malignant tumors but normal bone marrow (n = 6), bone marrow failure resulting from chemotherapy (n = 4), myelodysplastic syndrome (n = 5), and aplastic anemia (n = 5) were evaluated before and after patients were treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 (rhil-3). this cytokine proved to be an effective hematopoietic growth factor with only mild side effects. the rhil-3 treatment led to increased overall bone marrow cellularity with trilinear stimulation of hematopoietic cells, except in most patients with aplastic anemia. in all patients, significant eosinophilia and, in some instances, bone marrow fibrosis developed. in addition to the increase in the number of circulating neutrophilic granulocytes, platelets, and reticulocytes, an increase of peripheral blood monocytes and lymphocytes was observed. the histologic and cytologic findings support the concept that rhil-3 stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of pluripotent hematopoietic progenitor cells. it appears to be a safe and efficient therapeutic modality in patients with bone marrow failure. additional clinical studies are needed to determine which patients will profit most from rhil-3 treatment.
antibiotic use among children in an urban brazilian slum: a risk factor for diarrhea? [published erratum appears in am j public health 1991 apr;81(4):417] among a cohort of children in a poor urban setting in brazil, the relative risk for the occurrence of a new episode of diarrhea in the two weeks following antibiotic use vs all other weeks was 1.44 (95% confidence interval (ci) = 1.33, 2.45). among children ever [corrected] exposed to antibiotics, the odds ratio was 1.34 (95% ci = 0.84, 2.16) after stratifying by individual child and controlling for previous diarrhea. further research is needed to confirm whether antibiotics are a risk factor for diarrhea in such settings.
pharmacologic activity of bepafant (web 2170), a new and selective hetrazepinoic antagonist of platelet activating factor. the hetrazepine web 2170 (international nonproprietary name: bepafant), a thieno-triazolodiazepine that is structurally related to the recently described platelet activating factor (paf) antagonist web 2086, is a potent and selective paf antagonist both in vitro and in vivo. web 2170 inhibited paf-induced human platelet and neutrophil aggregation in vitro (ic50 values: 0.3 and 0.83 microm, respectively) but had little or no inhibitory action against aggregation induced by other agonists. the potency in vitro was comparable to that described recently for web 2086 (casals-stenzel, j., muacevic, g. and weber, k.h.: j. pharmacol. exp. ther. 241: 974-981, 1987). when guinea pigs were given i.v. infusions of paf at 30 ng x kg-1 x min-1, oral (0.005-0.5 mg/kg) as well as intravenous (0.005-0.05 mg/kg) treatment with web 2170 abrogated the intrathoracic accumulation of 111in-labeled platelets, the bronchoconstriction and the hypotension as well as the finally occurring death in a dose-dependent fashion. oral (0.01-1 mg/kg) and intravenous (0.005-0.1 mg/kg) web 2170 shared with the beta 2 agonist fenoterol and the steroid dexamethasone the property of protecting elderly nmri mice from the lethal effect of paf. in anesthetized rats, intravenous (0.001-0.1 mg/kg) and oral (0.05-1 mg/kg) web 2170 inhibited paf-induced hypotension in a dose-related manner. coadministration of web 2170 inhibited paf-induced increase of vascular permeability in rat skin very effectively. the half-time of duration of action in the rat was estimated to be about 5 to 6 h after oral administration and about 1.1 to 2.3 h after intravenous application. in conclusion, the hetrazepine web 2170 is a strong and selective paf antagonist, which is in vitro more or less equipotent to web 2086. in contrast, in vivo oral web 2170 is--depending on the species and considered parameter--about 5 to 40 times more potent against exogenous paf-induced alterations than the recently described hetrazepine web 2086. particularly in mice and rats, oral web 2170 is by far superior to web 2086.
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas. as the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas remains unclear, the tumor clonal composition of these common neoplasms was studied. clonality was determined in female patients by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the x-chromosome genes hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase and phosphoglycerate kinase in conjunction with their respective methylation patterns. peripheral lymphocyte dna was screened from 62 female patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma. eleven patients were heterozygous for the bgli site on pgk, 4 for the bamhi site on hprt, and 1 patient for both sites. of these 16 patients, 3 had acromegaly, 4 had cushing's disease, 7 had hyperprolactinemia, and 2 were clinically nonfunctional. after surgery, morphological study, including immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of the pathological specimens, allowed a direct comparison between clonality and tumor cell type. control fresh normal pituitary tissue was found to be polyclonal. the following tumors were monoclonal: all 3 somatotroph adenomas, 4 of 4 lactotroph tumors, 3 of 4 corticotroph cell adenomas, a gonadotroph adenoma, and a nonsecretory adenoma. a mixed plurihormonal adenoma was polyclonal, as were 2 tumors consisting of adenomatous lactotrophs interspersed with nontumorous adenohypophyseal pituitary tissue and one corticotroph adenoma mixed with normal pituitary tissue. functional pituitary adenomas derived from somatotrophs, corticotrophs, or lactotrophs and nonsecretory tumors are monoclonal in nature, suggesting that somatic cell mutations precede clonal expansion of these cells and play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis.
in vivo leukocyte migration in arthritis. we quantitated in vivo migration of neutrophils into the knees of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and osteoarthritis, using 99mtechnetium-hexamethyl-propylene-amineoxime-labeled leukocytes and gamma scintigraphy. significant neutrophil migration occurred in patients with ra irrespective of disease duration, and it was reduced by 60% following intraarticular steroid injection. the reduction in neutrophil migration correlated with reduction in pain. leukocyte migration into osteoarthritic joints was also demonstrated, although it was much less than that seen in rheumatoid joints. no significant leukocyte migration into the joints of patients without arthritis was demonstrated. this technique appears to provide a sensitive method for quantitatively assessing the neutrophil component of inflammation in individual joints of patients with arthritis.
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura treated with high-dose intravenous gamma globulin. plasma infusion and/or plasma exchange has become standard therapy in the treatment of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp). the management of patients in whom such primary therapy fails is difficult and uncertain. we have described a patient who obtained a sustained remission with the use of high-dose iv gamma globulin after an initial response to aggressive plasma exchange was followed by prompt relapse. our case and others suggest that high-dose iv igg may induce remission in patients with ttp who do not respond to standard plasma infusion and/or exchange.
childhood stroke after minor neck trauma: case report. cerebral infarction after minor trauma to the neck has rarely been reported. a case is presented of a child with trauma to the vertebrobasilar artery resulting in stroke. computerized tomography scan and angiography results are presented. despite two subsequent, separate transient episodes of vertigo, the child had good functional recovery with complete restoration of language and cognitive function. after 28 months, residual impairments identified were a mild right-sided ataxia and hemiparesis.
profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: successful treatment with fluconazole. although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with aids, papilledema is rarely reported. we have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with aids. after treatment failure with amphotericin b, the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole, and the papilledema resolved.
efficacy and complications of radiotherapy of anterior visual pathway tumors. a progressive disturbance in visual acuity or visual field, along with an unexplained optic nerve atrophy, suggests the possibility of a tumor. tumors that frequently affect the anterior visual pathway include primary optic nerve sheath meningiomas, intracranial meningiomas, optic gliomas, pituitary tumors, and craniopharyngiomas. the location of these tumors sometimes prohibits a complete surgical excision that might jeopardize the visual system. radiation therapy, however, can be beneficial in these cases. this article reviews the indications for radiotherapy of tumors that involve the anterior visual pathway, along with the possible complications. cases that present the effect of radiation therapy and radiation damage are presented.
efficacy of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. analysis of 149 consecutive studies. to evaluate the usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery, 149 consecutive patients were studied since 1985. left ventricular function was assessed by measurement of left ventricular dimension and ejection fraction in patients with valvular disease. this monitoring was useful in detecting the changes in left ventricular performance in patients with volume overload and in managing patients in the early postoperative period. cardiac tamponade was clearly demonstrated before changes in electrocardiogram and hemodynamic data. in 27 patients, transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was used to confirm that there was no residual regurgitation immediately after valvular reconstructive surgery. transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was also useful in detecting the entry of false lumen before surgery in 7 patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm. there were no unsuccessful introductions, no traumatic or thermal injuries, 18 patients (12.1%) with hoarseness and 5 patients (3.4%) with transient arrhythmia. in conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography provides a good imaging window to the heart and great vessels perioperatively. this expedient, safe informative imaging method can be used more routinely in patients during surgery.
psychological outcomes of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer outside a clinical trial objectives--to assess outside a clinical trial the psychological outcome of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer who underwent either mastectomy or breast conservation surgery depending on the surgeon's opinion or the patient's choice. to determine whether the extent of psychiatric morbidity reported in women who underwent breast conservation surgery was associated with their participation in a randomised clinical trial. design--prospective, multicentre study capitalising on individual and motivational differences among patients and the different management policies among surgeons for treating patients with early breast cancer. setting--12 district general hospitals, three london teaching hospitals, and four private hospitals. patients--269 women under 75 with a probable diagnosis of stage i or ii breast cancer who were referred to 22 different surgeons. interventions--surgery and radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy, or both, depending on the individual surgeon's stated preferences for managing early breast cancer. main outcome measures--anxiety and depression as assessed by standard methods two weeks, three months, and 12 months after surgery. results--of the 269 women, 31 were treated by surgeons who favoured mastectomy, 120 by surgeons who favoured breast conservation, and 118 by surgeons who offered a choice of treatment. sixty two of the women treated by surgeons who offered a choice were eligible to choose their surgery, and 43 of these chose breast conserving surgery. the incidences of anxiety, depression, and sexual dysfunction were high in all treatment groups. there were no significant differences in the incidences of anxiety and depression between women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy. a significant effect of surgeon type on the incidence of depression was observed, with patients treated by surgeons who offered a choice showing less depression than those treated by other surgeons (p = 0.06). there was no significant difference in psychiatric morbidity between women treated by surgeons who offered a choice who were eligible to choose their treatment and those in the same group who were not able to choose. most of the women (159/244) gave fear of cancer as their primary fear rather than fear of losing a breast. the overall incidences of psychiatric morbidity in women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy were similar to those found in the cancer research campaign breast conservation study. at 12 months 28% of women who underwent mastectomy in the present study were anxious compared with 26% in the earlier study, and 27% of women in the present study who underwent lumpectomy were anxious compared with 31% in the earlier study. in both the present and earlier study 21% of women who underwent mastectomy were depressed, and 19% of women who underwent lumpectomy in the present study were depressed compared with 27% in the earlier study.) conclusions--there is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy. women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological, sexual, or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial.
toxic carbamazepine concentrations following cardiothoracic surgery and myocardial infarction. carbamazepine is being used more frequently in the u.s. as an initial agent of choice to treat generalized tonic-clonic, mixed, and partial seizures with complex symptomatology. carbamazepine is extensively metabolized in the liver; however, there is little information available on its pharmacokinetics in patients following surgery or myocardial infarction, or in those with liver disease. we report a case of a patient who attained toxic carbamazepine serum concentrations (ranging from 18.2 to 21.5 micrograms/ml) two days after cardiothoracic surgery and an intraoperative myocardial infarction, and experienced lethargy, diplopia, dysarthria, diaphoresis, and horizontal and downgaze nystagmus. these alterations in serum carbamazepine concentration normalized ten days after surgery. they may have been due to a combination of changes in protein binding and decreased elimination due to altered intrinsic hepatic clearance. with carbamazepine achieving a more prominent place in anticonvulsant therapy, the influence of various procedures and disease processes on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of carbamazepine, as well as the clinical consequences of such changes, need further investigation.
the natural history of peripheral vascular disease. implications for its management. the durability and the eventual complication rate of endovascular therapy (percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, laser-assisted angioplasty, and atherectomy) are not yet entirely clear, especially with respect to the treatment of atherosclerotic lesions in the femoropopliteal or distal arterial segments. therefore, the indications for its use have not been firmly established and must take into consideration the natural history of the occlusive disease itself. although some type of procedural intervention clearly is warranted in the presence of ischemic rest pain or tissue necrosis, intermittent claudication is the only complaint in approximately 70% of patients who present with either aortoiliac or femoropopliteal involvement. most nondiabetic patients experience substantial symptomatic improvement with a daily exercise program, and their long-term risks for either abrupt deterioration (20-25%) or amputation (less than 10%) are relatively low. in comparison, the 5-year mortality rate ranges from 20-40% even in claudicants, and as many as 40% of those with clinical indications of associated coronary artery disease have been shown angiographically to be candidates for myocardial revascularization. these observations suggest that traditional indications for surgical treatment (truly disabling claudication and/or limb salvage) also should be applied to endovascular therapy until its success is confirmed beyond speculation, and that incidental coronary disease deserves particular attention in patients with lower extremity ischemia.
mycosis fungoides-like lesions associated with phenytoin and carbamazepine therapy. we report the cases of four patients who were taking the anticonvulsant drugs phenytoin or carbamazepine and in whom skin lesions developed that showed histologic features suggestive of mycosis fungoides. two patients had a solitary lesion on the trunk, whereas the other two patients had multiple plaques. in all four patients systemic signs were absent.
endolymphatic hydrops precipitated by haemodialysis. we report a case of endolymphatic hydrops preceded by haemodialysis in the contralateral ear of a patient with known meniere's disease, and discuss the possible mechanism. it is suggested that the sudden decrease of plasma osmolality during haemodialysis acts as a reverse glycerol test. the audiometric and electrophysiological recordings pre- and post-dialysis and the induction of the meniere's triad of symptoms during dialysis, were strongly indicative of the presence of endolymphatic hydrops.
effect of chemodenervation on the cerebral vascular and microvascular response to hypoxia. this study evaluated the effect of bilateral carotid chemodenervation on the cerebrovascular response to hypoxia in conscious rats. cerebral blood flow was measured using 4-iodo[n-methyl-14c]antipyrine, and the total and perfused microvasculature was studied by injection of fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran and alkaline phosphatase staining. to maintain constant pco2, hypoxia was achieved in chemoreceptor-intact rats by the use of 4% co2-8% o2-88% n2 and in chemodenervated rats by the administration of 8% o2-92% n2. blood gas and hemodynamic parameters were similar in the two groups of rats. chemodenervation had no significant effect on either resting blood flow or the perfused microvasculature during normoxia. a significant increase in cerebral blood flow (from 71 +/- 3 to 138 +/- 9 ml/min/100 g in control and from 91 +/- 5 to 127 +/- 7 ml/min/100 g in chemodenervated rats) and in the percent of cerebral arterioles and capillaries perfused occurred in both hypoxic control and chemodenervated rats. in chemoreceptor-intact rats, the greatest increase in blood flow and in perfused microvasculature occurred in caudal structures (medulla and pons) in comparison with rostral structures (cortex, thalamus, and hypothalamus). in chemodenervated rats, a similar increase in blood flow and perfused microvasculature occurred in all brain regions, with no regional differences. thus, chemodenervation did not affect the overall cerebral blood flow or the microvascular response to hypoxia; however, rostral-to-caudal regional differences in the hypoxic response were lost after chemodenervation.
drug-induced dna damage and tumor chemosensitivity. cytotoxic drugs act principally by damaging tumor-cell dna. quantitative analysis of this interaction provides a basis for understanding the biology of therapeutic cell kill as well as a rational strategy for optimizing and predicting tumor response. recent advances have made it possible to correlate assayed dna lesions with cytotoxicity in tumor cell lines, in animal models, and in patients with malignant disease. in addition, many of the complex interrelationships between dna damage, dna repair, and alterations of gene expression in response to dna damage have been defined. techniques for modulating dna damage and cytotoxicity using schedule-specific cytotoxic combinations, dna repair inhibitors, cell-cycle manipulations, and adjunctive noncytotoxic drug therapy are being developed, and critical therapeutic targets have been identified within tumor-cell subpopulations and genomic dna alike. most importantly, methods for predicting clinical response to cytotoxic therapy using both in vitro markers of tumor-cell sensitivity and in vivo measurements of drug-induced dna damage are now becoming a reality. these advances can be expected to provide a strong foundation for the development of innovative cytotoxic drug strategies over the next decade.
specific binding sites for insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma of women with polycystic ovarian disease and stromal hyperthecosis. women with polycystic ovarian disease and hyperthecosis have hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. it is possible that insulin in supraphysiologic concentration exerts its steroidogenic action on ovarian stromal cells through insulin-like growth factor i receptors. we undertook this study to investigate whether the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis has specific binding sites for insulin or insulin-like growth factor i. ovarian stromal tissue was obtained from seven women with normal ovulatory cycles and from five women with hyperthecosis of the ovaries. binding studies with insulin tagged with iodine 125 and insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 revealed specific binding sites both for insulin and insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma. the binding of insulin tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis (3.4% +/- 1.1% (+/- se) per 100 micrograms protein) was significantly (p less than 0.04) lower than that observed in normal premenopausal women (8.3% +/- 1.6% per 100 micrograms protein). by contrast, the specific binding of insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis (7.1% +/- 1.7% per 100 micrograms protein) was higher than that observed in the ovarian stroma from normal women (4.5% +/- 1.7% per 100 micrograms protein), although the difference was not statistically significant. the affinity constants for these high-affinity receptors were similar (1.2 to 3.6 x 10(9) l/mol) in the two groups of women. these results indicate that (1) the ovarian stroma has specific binding sites both for insulin and for insulin-like growth factor i; (2) in women with hyperthecosis, the ovarian stroma has decreased binding sites for insulin but has normal concentrations of insulin-like growth factor i receptors; and (3) in women with hyperthecosis, stimulation of ovarian androgen synthesis by insulin may be mediated through the insulin-like growth factor i receptors.
some osseous and soft tissue causes of human intervertebral canal (foramen) stenosis. much attention has been paid to the causes of vertebral canal stenosis in humans but relatively little has been documented with regard to intervertebral canal (intervertebral "foramen," lateral spinal canal, nerve root canal) stenosis. as the dural sleeve ends at the outer opening of the intervertebral canal, a false "normal" myelogram is possible when a space occupying lesion occurs beyond the subarachnoid space. also, if stenosis affects only vascular structures, compression of these structures cannot be noted during myelography, so venous stasis may be overlooked. our cadaveric study investigates some causes of intervertebral canal stenosis due to encroachment by bony and soft tissue structures, and low magnification photomicrographs are used to illustrate some causes of stenosis.
the growing teratoma syndrome. thirteen patients with metastatic non-seminomatous germ cell tumours and enlarging metastases consisting of teratoma differentiated only were identified. patients were managed with surgical resection soon after the growing lesions were documented. surgical morbidity was minimal and 12 patients are alive (10 are disease-free) at a median follow-up of 28 months.
diagnostic and prognostic value of electrophysiologic tests in meralgia paresthetica. electrophysiologic diagnosis of unilateral meralgia paresthetica is usually assessed by side-to-side comparison of snap amplitudes, sncvs, and sep latencies following stimulation of lateral femoral cutaneous nerves. to determine the relevance for diagnosis of these tests and side-to-side comparison, the results were compared in patients with unilateral meralgia paresthetica and normal subjects. the long-term outcome was also considered, in order to determine whether electrophysiologic findings contribute to the prognosis. in our study, snap amplitude comparison was found to be more useful for diagnosis than sncv and sep latency comparisons. however the value of the snap amplitude on the affected side, just as the results of the other tests, was not found to be predictive of the outcome. also the results of the tests depend on the methods used and on the nerve's route.
does use of gastroepiploic artery graft increase surgical risk? seventy patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was used for coronary artery bypass grafting were compared with 70 patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was not used. mean age was 56.8 years in the group in which this artery was used and 61.8 years in the group in which it was not (p less than 0.001). all other preoperative characteristics including number of women, extent of coronary artery disease, previous myocardial infarction, unstable angina, and preoperative left ventricular function were not significantly different between the two groups. an internal mammary artery graft was concomitantly used in 68 patients (97%) of the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in 61 patients (87%) without such a graft. the mean number of distal anastomoses was 3.3 and 3.4, aortic crossclamp time was 65.3 +/- 19.9 minutes and 54.0 +/- 20.1 minutes, and cardiopulmonary bypass time was 114.8 +/- 23.6 minutes and 112.9 +/- 25.0 minutes, respectively, in the groups with and without a gastroepiploic artery graft. only aortic crossclamp time was significantly (p less than 0.05) longer in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft. there were two (2.9%) early deaths and two (2.9%) new q-wave infarctions in both groups. intraaortic balloon pumping was required in five patients (7.1%) in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in three patients (4.3%) without this graft. postoperative complications were similar and rare in both groups. intraoperative endoscopic laser doppler study demonstrated no significant change of gastric mucosal blood flow before and after division of the gastroepiploic artery. we concluded that there is no additional risk in the use of the gastroepiploic artery for coronary bypass grafting, and a favorable outcome can be expected.
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty. an experimental study in piglets. paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta. the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty. the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min. twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact, whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic. the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings.
nonseminomatous germ cell tumor with very high serum human chorionic gonadotropin. most patients with disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (nsgct) have an excellent prognosis with modern chemotherapy, although certain subgroups with a worse prognosis have been described. one such subgroup includes patients with high serum levels of the tumor marker, human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg). sixteen patients of 104 treated for nsgct at the crc wessex medical oncology unit (southampton, uk) presented with serum hcg greater than 25,000. most of these patients exhibited features of the "choriocarcinoma syndrome" with bulky, rapidly progressive disease; frequent pulmonary, hepatic, and central nervous system complications; and a generally poorer response to standard nsgct chemotherapy. histologic identification of trophoblastic tumor was not made in all patients and is not essential for the diagnosis of the syndrome; indeed, closed biopsy may be contradicted in some circumstances because of the risk of hemorrhage. the nsgct patients with poor prognosis, including patients with the choriocarcinoma syndrome, must be clearly identified in order to improve management and, eventually, cure rates.
immunohistochemical study of vascular lesions in severe hypertension induced by doca and salt administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats. in order to evaluate whether immunoglobulin deposition in vessels plays some role in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension, an immunohistochemical study was performed in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrs), to which deoxycorticosterone acetate (doca) and salt were administered. doca and salt rapidly induced severe hypertensive vascular lesions, including necrotizing arteriolitis and productive endarteritis. in these rats, considerable deposits of igg and igm were found in the small arteries and arterioles of the kidneys. these deposits were accompanied by complement (c3), and could be eluted by acid incubation. they were localized in periodic acid-schiff-positive insudative lesions, which were thought to be an early phase of the hypertensive vascular lesions. these results suggest that the immunoglobulins might be bound to an unknown antigen in the vascular lesions and that some immunological mechanism mediated by the immunoglobulins is involved in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension.
function after amputation, arthrodesis, or arthroplasty for tumors about the knee. we studied the function of twenty-two patients who had had a malignant skeletal tumor adjacent to the knee. an above-the-knee amputation was done in seven; a resection arthrodesis, in nine; and a replacement arthroplasty, in six. the patients all walked at a similar speed (sixty-one to sixty-six meters per minute), which is slower than normal (eighty meters per minute). they all walked with comparable efficiency at three velocities: the mean consumption of oxygen was 0.210 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter at free velocity, 0.215 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter when they walked 25 per cent faster, and 0.211 to 0.240 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter when they walked 50 per cent faster. the three groups of patients and a normal control group consumed oxygen at similar rates. the patients who had had an amputation were very active, and they were the least worried about damaging the affected limb, but they had difficulty walking on steep, rough, or slippery surfaces. the patients who had had an arthrodesis had a more stable limb and performed the most demanding physical work and recreational activities, but they had difficulty sitting. the patients who had had an arthroplasty led sedentary lives and were the most protective of the limb, but they were the least self-conscious about the limb.
extramedullary blast crisis in a patient with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia in complete cytogenetic remission. treatment of philadelphia (ph) chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) with recombinant interferon-alpha (ifn-a) results in complete disappearance of the ph chromosome in about 10% to 15% of patients in early chronic phase. this group has a long survival and very low incidence of blast crisis. the first known case is reported of extramedullary blastic transformation in a patient with medullary complete cytogenetic response (0% ph-positive metaphases) to ifn-a. four episodes of extramedullary blast crisis have occurred in this patient. the first three episodes were lymphoid by morphology and cytochemical stains. molecular analysis confirmed breakpoint cluster region rearrangement. the most recent transformation was myeloid in nature and involved bone and pulmonary parenchyma. the patient is currently undergoing a second autologous transplantation with stored bone marrow that is ph negative. the patient has survived more than 18 months since the first episode of blast crisis, and the bone marrow is normal.
ischemic colitis in a crack abuser. we report a case of acute colitis temporally associated with smoking crack. colonoscopy revealed a patchy left-sided hemorrhagic inflammation from the rectosigmoid colon to the splenic flexure. biopsy specimens were consistent with resolving ischemic colitis. this entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute bloody diarrhea in recreational drug users.
measurement of acute phase proteins for assessing severity of plasmodium falciparum malaria. seventeen adult patients with acute plasmodium falciparum malaria, admitted to the hospital for tropical diseases, were studied. serial measurements of the serum concentration of c-reactive protein, serum amyloid a protein, and percentage parasitaemia were determined, together with initial measurement of serum electrolytes, liver function, haemoglobin, white cell and platelet counts. initial c-reactive protein and serum amyloid a concentrations were increased (c-reactive protein mean 49.0 mg/l serum amyloid a 28 mg/l) falling towards the normal range by the seventh day of treatment. there was a significant correlation between the pretreatment parasite count and clinical and laboratory markers of inflammation. c-reactive protein and serum amyloid a concentrations correlated inversely with the serum sodium. these results indicate that measurement of acute phase reactants such as c-reactive protein and serum amyloid a may prove valuable in assessing the severity of p falciparum malaria, and in following the response to antimalarial treatment.
carbohydrate malabsorption. its measurement and its contribution to diarrhea. the major purpose of this research was to gain insight into the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on fecal water output. to do this we measured daily fecal output of total carbohydrate, reducing sugars, and organic acids (a product of bacterial fermentation). normal subjects were studied in their native state and when diarrhea was induced by mechanisms that did and did not involve carbohydrate malabsorption. patients with malabsorption syndrome were also studied. we concluded that: (a) excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products can be expressed as a single number by converting organic acids to their monosaccharide equivalents. (b) diarrhea per se causes only a trivial increase in fecal carbohydrate excretion. (c) the molar output of osmotic moieties in feces due to unabsorbed carbohydrate can be determined by adding fecal reducing sugars to organic acids and their obligated cations. this expression parallels almost exactly the effect of increasing doses of lactulose (a nonabsorbable sugar) on fecal water output; one excreted millimole obligates 3.5 g of stool water. this relationship can be used to predict the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on stool water output in patients with diarrhea. (d) 12 of 19 patients with malabsorption syndrome due to various diseases had excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products; of the diseases that cause malabsorption syndrome, combined small and large bowel resection is most likely to result in excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and monosaccharide equivalents. in 6 of these 19 patients carbohydrate malabsorption appeared to be the major cause of diarrhea.
focal scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy. patient report and brief review. a 21-month-old infant presented with simultaneous localized scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy with heart failure. cardiac abnormalities and serological changes (positive rheumatoid factor assay, elevated igm and igg levels, and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate) reverted to normal with prednisone therapy, and there was substantial, though incomplete, resolution of her skin changes during the same period. to our knowledge, this is the first patient with definite, clinically significant cardiac involvement associated with focal scleroderma. the possibility of internal organ involvement, including cardiac involvement, must be considered with focal scleroderma as well as with progressive systemic sclerosis.
red cell na+/li+ countertransport in non-insulin-dependent diabetics with diabetic nephropathy. genetic predisposition to essential hypertension, as indicated by increased maximal velocity of na+/li+ countertransport in red cells, has been suggested as a marker for the risk of developing diabetic nephropathy. to evaluate the validity of this concept in non-insulin-dependent diabetics, we measured the maximal velocity of na+/li+ countertransport in red cells in 18 male diabetics suffering from proteinuria due to biopsy proven diabetic glomerulosclerosis (gfr: 51 [range 27 to 146] ml/min/1.73 m2), 17 male diabetics with normoalbuminuria, and in 18 sex-, age-, and body mass index-matched healthy control subjects. na+/li+ countertransport was identical in patients with and without diabetic nephropathy, 0.43 (0.24 to 0.92) versus 0.44 (0.20 to 0.83) mmol/(liter cells x hr), but was elevated compared to control subjects, 0.32 (0.09 to 0.73; p less than 0.05). arterial blood pressure was elevated in patients with nephropathy (162/92 +/- 21/9 mm hg) compared to normoalbuminuric patients (132/82 +/- 15/7) and control subjects (133/83 +/- 14/7 mm hg; p less than 0.001). our study does not support the hypothesis that the risk of diabetic nephropathy in non-insulin-dependent diabetes is associated with a genetic predisposition to hypertension. diabetes per se seems to enhance na+/li+ countertransport activity.
extramedullary hematopoiesis in a bronchial carcinoid tumor. an unusual complication of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. a case of bronchial carcinoid tumor with foci of extramedullary hematopoiesis is presented. the patient had a 6-year history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia and hepatosplenomegaly. all three hematopoietic cell lines were represented in different areas of the bronchial tumor. to our knowledge, this is the first case of extramedullary hematopoiesis described in a bronchial carcinoid and only the fourth report of hematopoietic cells in a neoplasm of otherwise unrelated origin. the pathogenesis of this uncommon finding is discussed and the literature is reviewed.
production of thrombi on intact endothelium by use of antiheparin agents in vivo. it had been suggested that antithrombin activity on the surface of intact endothelial cells may play a role in inhibiting platelet adhesion and thrombus formation. the antithrombin activity may be due to thrombomodulin or to activation of antithrombin iii by glycosaminoglycans or thrombomodulin, or possibly a combination of these. this inhibitory activity has been shown to be affected by such antiheparin agents as protamine, hexadimethrine bromide (polybrene; aldrich chemical co., milwaukee, wis.) and platelet factor 4, as well as by such enzymes as heparinase and heparitinase. we have used a hamster cheek pouch preparation to observe thrombus formation in vivo in a normal vascular flow, to determine whether the production of thrombi by thrombin can be enhanced by antiheparin agents. after intra-arterial injection or topical application of protamine or hexadimethrine bromide, platelet adhesion and thrombus formation on intact arteriolar endothelium was produced by a dose of thrombin, which when injected alone had no effect. no thrombi were found in venules or capillaries. injection of heparin before or after the antiheparin agents necessitated a larger dose to enhance the action of thrombin. on electron microscopy the thrombi were found to consist primarily of platelets adherent to an intact endothelium. the possible clinical implications of these observations are discussed.
concordance for dyslipidemic hypertension in male twins. sixty cases of dyslipidemic hypertension were identified in the 1028 middle-aged, white, male twin participants in the first examination of the national heart, lung, and blood institute twin study (1969 to 1973). the prevalence of dyslipidemic hypertension was similar by zygosity but proband concordance was three times greater in monozygotic than dizygotic twins (0.44 [seven concordant and 18 discordant pairs] vs 0.14 [two concordant and 24 discordant pairs]), suggesting a genetic effect on the condition. low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level was the most common lipid abnormality in concordant pairs. mortality from ischemic heart disease was significantly higher in individuals with dyslipidemic hypertension. obesity and glucose intolerance were closely associated with the syndrome. moreover, within the 18 discordant monozygotic twin pairs, the twins with dyslipidemic hypertension had gained significantly more weight as adults and were significantly heavier than their unaffected cotwins. thus, although genetic factors may influence development of dyslipidemic hypertension, nongenetic, potentially modifiable aspects of obesity are also closely related to expression of this clinically important syndrome.
pharmacodynamics in cancer therapy. our understanding of anticancer pharmacodynamics, and the relationships between pharmacologic measurements and clinical effects, has grown markedly in recent years due to advances in analytical and computational technology. although methotrexate plasma levels have been empirically used to guide leucovorin dosing during high-dose methotrexate therapy, there has been no other standard use of therapeutic drug monitoring in oncology. more recently, investigators have attempted to titrate precisely the dose of antineoplastic agents based on previously derived models and real-time analysis of plasma drug or tissue concentrations. studies have been completed or are in progress using hexamethylene bisacetamide, etoposide, teniposide, fluorouracil (fura), and cytarabine (ara-c). future studies will focus on optimal sampling strategies, analysis of intermediate biochemical end points, combination chemotherapy, modulation by colony-stimulating factors, and more sophisticated pharmacodynamic models.
cholangiocarcinoma. the diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma can now be made with greater rapidity and accuracy. in the clinical setting of obstructive jaundice, a ct scan or sonogram may suggest cholangiocarcinoma if dilated intrahepatic ducts are seen with a nondilated extrahepatic biliary tree. the diagnosis is confirmed by cholangiography, and the tumor is staged by the combination of cholangiography and angiography. if the tumor extensively involves both lobes of the liver or involves the main portal vein or hepatic artery, the lesion is considered unresectable. these patients are best palliated nonoperatively, but they should still have an attempt at a tissue diagnosis, as various other lesions can masquerade as cholangiocarcinoma. in comparison, if the tumor is confined to or is distal to the hepatic duct bifurcation, extends into only one lobe of the liver, or involves only the right or the left portal vein or hepatic artery, the lesion may be resectable, and exploration is indicated. as many as half of all patients explored with curative intent will have a successful resection. various surgical options are appropriate for patients undergoing tumor resection, depending on the site and extent of the lesion. similarly, several surgical options are possible for palliation in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma. the role of radiotherapy in the management of cholangiocarcinoma is uncertain. our results, like those of many other retrospective analyses, suggest that radiotherapy prolongs survival after curative resection as well as after palliative stenting. however, further data from randomized studies are necessary to support or refute this impression. further studies of adjuvant chemotherapy or hormonal therapy will also be necessary to improve patient survival.
vasopressin response in collecting ducts of rats resistant to mineralocorticoid hypertension. in previous studies we found that vasopressin stimulation of both cyclic amp (camp) formation in cortical collecting tubules (cct) and sodium reabsorption in isolated perfused kidneys was markedly exaggerated in rats with mineralocorticoid hypertension. in the present study, we tested the response (camp accumulation) of cortical and outer medullary collecting tubules (omct) to vasopressin in two rat models that are resistant to deoxycorticosterone acetate (doca)-induced hypertension, the wistar-furth strain and nacl-deficient rats. the blood pressure of normal outbred wistar rats rose to hypertensive levels (systolic pressure more than 165 mm hg) during a 5-week treatment with doca (10 mg/week) and 1% saline to drink. significant hypertrophy of the heart and kidneys was also observed. vasopressin (10(-8) m)-induced camp formation was enhanced 3.4-fold in the cct (omct unchanged) of hypertensive rats compared with normotensive controls. significant hypertrophy (as indexed by tubule diameter) of the cct but not the omct was also observed in doca-salt hypertensive rats. restriction of dietary nacl (0.13% in chow, tap water to drink) completely prevented doca-induced hypertension, organ and cct hypertrophy, and enhancement of vasopressin-stimulated camp formation in the cct. in wistar-furth rats, doca-salt treatment did not alter blood pressure or cause significant organ hypertrophy. however, doca-salt treatment enhanced vasopressin-stimulated camp formation by 4.1-fold in cct of wistar-furth rats, with significant tubular hypertrophy in the cct but not the omct. we conclude that doca-induced hypertension and changes in cct function are dependent on excess dietary nacl.
management of patients with thyroid carcinoma: application of thallium-201 scintigraphy and magnetic resonance imaging thyroid carcinoma has the ability to concentrate radioiodine, an attribute that can be used both for detection of thyroid cells and for treatment. unfortunately, however, radioiodine uptake is not observed in all patients and a radioiodine scan requires that the patient be rendered hypothyroid for 4-6 wk. in the present study, we analyzed the utility of thallium-201 scanning and the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in the detection of thyroid cancer. nineteen patients with thyroid cancer had a total of 24 radioiodine scans, 33 thallium scans, and 10 mri examinations. of the 19 patients in the study, 17 had differentiated thyroid carcinoma. in these 17 cases, all paired studies were concordant for the presence (n = 7) or absence (n = 10) of disease. however, in one case (patient 10), the 201tl studies showed far more extensive disease than was observed on the 131i scan. thyroid cancer was also detected on seven mri studies. in summary, thallium and mri scans are adjunctive techniques to radioiodine scanning that can either confirm the presence of neck bed activity, residual disease or metastatic cancer and may delineate tumor deposits not detected by radioiodine scanning. thallium may be capable of detecting tumor deposits even while a patient remains euthyroid.
early diagnosis and surgical intervention of acute aortic dissection by transesophageal color flow mapping. to determine whether transesophageal color doppler echocardiography (tee) is useful for the early diagnosis and surgical intervention in acute aortic dissection, 57 serial patients with acute aortic dissection were examined. these patients were evaluated by tee with either the single-plane probe (39 patients) or the biplanar probe (18 patients) just after admission. the intimal flap was detected in all patients, and there were 18 patients with type a dissection and 39 patients with type b dissection. the entry was visualized in 83% of type a dissection cases and in 90% of type b dissection cases. in two of 18 patients examined with the biplanar probe technique, the entry was detected in the longitudinal view only. emergency operations were performed in 18 patients with type a dissection and in 10 patients with ruptured type b dissection. twenty-nine of 39 patients with type b dissection were treated conservatively. the operative mortality rate of patients with type a dissection was 22%, and that of patients with ruptured type b dissection was 60%. the major advantage of tee is its ease of application at the bedside or in the operating room, which allows immediate and accurate diagnosis of acute aortic dissection for emergency surgical intervention. biplanar tee provides additional acoustic windows, ease of spatial orientation, and more accurate visualization of entry. tee is a useful and powerful diagnostic tool for acute aortic dissection, and by using this method, one may achieve a more rapid and aggressive surgical approach for patients with acute aortic dissection.
outcome of pregnancies experienced during residency. to investigate potential adverse effects of residency training on pregnancy outcome, a cohort study was conducted among 45 university-affiliated residency programs. outcomes of the first pregnancy experienced during residency were compared between 92 female residents and 144 spouses of male residents. despite long hours, sleep deprivation, and an increase in perceived stress, the female residents were as likely to give birth to a live, full-term newborn as the spouses of male residents. for white cohort members, an increased risk of premature labor without delivery was identified (rr = 12.3, 95% confidence interval 2.4-61.6). no significant differences were found in prematurity, spontaneous and therapeutic abortions, or presence of congenital abnormalities in the infants. method of delivery and use of anesthetics and of other medications were similar in both groups. pregnancy outcomes between the two groups were similar; however, the increased risk for premature labor among female residents is a cause for concern and should be further investigated.
the infant with a reddish diaper. the infant with a reddish diaper presents a diagnostic challenge to the primary care physician. as described by dr baumgardner, the cause may be benign, but more ominous disorders must be ruled out.
management of hypertension by reduction in sympathetic activity. the sympathetic nervous system may initiate or maintain hypertension, and a range of approaches that reduce sympathetic activity is often of value in management. these may include nonpharmacological methods, such as the various forms of behavioral therapy (e.g., meditation, relaxation, and biofeedback techniques); weight reduction and avoidance of particular foods and agents that stimulate sympathetic activity (including caffeine and alcohol), and regular physical exercise. pharmacological therapy includes centrally acting drugs such as alpha-methyldopa, clonidine, and reserpine; ganglionic blockers such as hexamethonium; agents acting on sympathetic nerve terminals such as guanethidine and debrisoquine; and drugs that may act at multiple sites, such as the beta-adrenergic blockers. the role of reducing sympathetic activity in the current management of hypertension and its complications is considered in this overview.
venous hemodynamics in a chronic venous valvular insufficiency model. to develop a large-animal model of chronic venous valve incompetence, 13 greyhound dogs underwent unilateral hindlimb venous valve lysis with a valve cutter apparatus pulled retrograde through the iliac, femoral, and lateral saphenous veins. bilateral venous pressures in the lateral saphenous vein were recorded before valve lysis, immediately after valve lysis, and at intervals from 1 to 14 weeks after valve lysis, with the dogs in the supine position and elevated 80 degrees semierect, as well as after stimulated hindlimb muscle contraction to empty the hindlimb veins. passive venous filling time with elevation and 90% venous refilling time after muscle contraction were calculated. from immediately after through 14 weeks after valve lysis, a shortened venous filling time and 90% venous refilling time as well as an elevated poststimulation venous pressure were noted. this valve lysis method successfully produced a hemodynamically verified model of venous valvular insufficiency.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (l-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy). histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following l-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis, neuritis, and perimysial fasciitis. the presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial.
an analysis of outcome following percutaneous transluminal coronary artery angioplasty. an autopsy series. we analyzed autopsy findings on 26 patients who died following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). twenty-one patients died within 3 weeks of undergoing ptca; demonstrable cardiac complications were found in 19 patients: platelet-fibrin thrombi (10 patients [48%]), coronary artery dissections (17 patients [81%]), thromboemboli (13 patients [62%]), atheroemboli (seven patients [33%]), and myocardial infarcts (17 patients [81%]). an increased incidence of coronary platelet-fibrin thrombi was noted when compared with a non-ptca cardiac autopsy population (five of 53 patients). apparently there was an increased incidence of coronary atheroemboli and thromboemboli in the patients with coronary platelet-fibrin thrombi (eight patients) when compared with patients who did not have platelet-fibrin thrombi (five patients), although this was not statistically significant. there was no evidence of a systemic hypercoagulable state or of disseminated intravascular coagulation. the pathogenesis of this is unclear; however, vasospasm and a disruption of the endothelial surface induced by ptca with subsequent platelet activation are possible causes. although not statistically significant, there was a proponderance of female subjects (seven patients) and an increased incidence of diabetes mellitus (six patients) and hypertension (13 patients) when compared with a control population of all patients undergoing ptca at the cleveland (ohio) clinic foundation in 1987, suggesting that diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and female sex may be clinical risk factors for fatal complications following ptca.
what affects continence after anterior resection of the rectum? functional results after anterior rectal resections are commonly considered satisfactory but variable percentages of postoperative incontinence are often reported. continence was evaluated after 20 low anterior resections (lar) and 13 high anterior resections (har) by means of clinical assessment, anorectal manometry, and evacuation proctography. whereas all har patients had perfect continence, 10 patients (50 percent of the lar group had occasional episodes of soiling from liquid feces, 5 patients (25 percent had frequent soiling or occasional incontinence for solid feces, and 1 patient (5 percent had frequent solid stool loss requiring surgical treatment. anal canal resting pressure at 3 and 4 cm from the anal verge was significantly lower in the lar group (p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.05, respectively) than in the har group. however, the maximum voluntary contraction did not differ between the two groups. rectoanal inhibitory reflex was found to be present in 17 of the 20 patients with lar and in all patients with har. the volume at which the anal sphincter is continuously inhibited was significantly reduced in the lar group (p less than 0.001). also, the conscious rectal sensibility volumes were found to be significantly reduced for threshold, constant, and maximum tolerated volume. threshold volume for internal sphincter relaxation was lower than the threshold volume for rectal sensation in some patients with lar. this could allow postoperative fecal soiling. rectal compliance was decreased (p less than 0.001) in the lar group. evacuation proctography, performed in six lar patients affected by major soiling or solid stool loss, revealed an abnormal obtuse anorectal angle and pathologic lowering of the perineum at rest and during defecation. the concomitance of internal and sphincter impairment, reduction in rectal compliance, and previous pelvis floor muscle damage are postulated as cause affecting continence in patients who underwent lar.
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia. we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen, cow milk beta-lactoglobulin (blg) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms. sixteen patients (77% of those with arthralgia) responded to diet (rd) with marked reduction of symptoms; the others did not respond (nr). ten (all but one rd with arthralgia) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk. four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia. in all cases, specific ige to cow milk was absent. these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria, and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet, are related to excess intestinal permeability. the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction.
candidal infection in oral lichen planus. the prevalence of candidal infection in lichen planus (lp) and its possible association with ulceration were independently examined in two archived series of 108 and 77 cases derived from two separate populations. to ensure that similar material was being compared, each case was histopathologically reassessed and confirmed as lp or reclassified as nonspecific lichenoid stomatitis (nsls), lichenoid dysplasia (ld), or other (o). three further sections, cut at 25 microns intervals, were stained with periodic acid-schiff reagent for the identification of intraepithelial candidal pseudohyphae. as control specimens, 61 normal and 59 hyperkeratotic mucosal samples were similarly processed and examined. candidal infection was found in 17.4% and 16.4% of ulcerated and nonulcerated lp cases, respectively, and in 40.0% and 16.7% of ulcerated and nonulcerated nsls cases, respectively. one case of ld was infected. each control series contained one infected case. the results indicate that candidal infection occurs more readily in lp and nsls, with no apparent association with ulceration in lp. the comparatively marked increase in the infection prevalence of ulcerated nsls cannot be statistically confirmed, and its significance remains uncertain.
role of cephamycins in obstetrics and gynecology. infections of the female upper genital tract are usually polymicrobic, often involving mixed aerobic (facultative) and anaerobic bacteria. optimal therapy provides coverage against aerobes (both gram positive and gram negative and especially the enterobacteriaceae) and anaerobes (especially the beta-lactamase-producing gram-negative species, such as bacteroides). a variety of antibiotics provide the broad spectrum of activity needed for these infections, including clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside, cephalosporins and cephamycins, imipenem, extended-spectrum penicillins and the beta-lactam agents combined with a beta-lactamase inhibitor. the cephamycins--cefoxitin, cefotetan and cefmetazole--have been shown to have a high rate of clinical efficacy and bacteriologic response. the cephalosporins are usually used for prophylaxis at the time of obstetric and gynecologic surgery. the cephamycins have recently undergone extensive evaluation for prophylaxis and have demonstrated comparable microbiologic and clinical efficacy. a pharmacokinetic comparison of cefoxitin, cefotetan and cefmetazole points to cefmetazole as a cost-effective alternative to cefoxitin and cefotetan for both prophylaxis and treatment of pelvic infections.
role of xanthine oxidase and neutrophils in ischemia-reperfusion injury in rabbit lung. this study evaluated the effect of ischemia-reperfusion (i-r) on pulmonary capillary permeability in isolated rabbit lungs and the roles of xanthine oxidase (xo), aldehyde oxidase (ao), and neutrophils (pmn) in producing this lung injury. effects of xo and ao were studied by inactivation with a tungsten-enriched diet (0.7 g/kg) and inhibition of xo by allopurinol (100 microm) or ao by menadione (3.5 microm). pmn effects were studied by preventing endothelial adhesion with the monoclonal antibody ib4 (10 microm). vascular permeability was evaluated by determining the capillary filtration coefficient (kf,c) measured before and after i-r in all experimental conditions. reperfusion after 2 h of ischemia significantly increased pulmonary capillary permeability (kf,c changed from 0.096 +/- 0.014 to 0.213 +/- 0.025 ml.min-1. cmh2o-1.100 g-1), and this increase was blocked by the addition of catalase (50,000 u) at reperfusion (baseline kf,c was 0.125 +/- 0.023 and 0.116 +/- 0.014 ml.min-1.cmh2o-1.100 g-1). xo inactivation with the tungsten-supplemented diet and xo inhibition with allopurinol prevented the kf,c increase observed after i-r (0.183 +/- 0.030 to 0.185 +/- 0.033 and 0.126 +/- 0.018 to 0.103 +/- 0.005 ml.min-1.cmh2o-1.100 g-1). inhibition of ao had no effect on i-r injury (kf,c 0.108 +/- 0.011 to 0.167 +/- 0.014 ml.min-1.cmh2o-1.100 g-1). preventing pmn adhesion resulted in significant attenuation of the change in kf,c associated with i-r (0.112 +/- 0.032 to 0.090 +/- 0.065 ml.min-1.cmh2o-1.100 g-1). we conclude that xo and pmn adherence, but not ao, are involved in the increased capillary permeability associated with i-r.
effect of stress on diagnosis of hypertension. blood pressure assessment by a physician elicits an alerting reaction and a pressor response in the patient. the magnitude and time course of this response are described for a large number of hypertensive subjects in whom the assessments were performed during ambulatory intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring. in nearly all of the subjects, the physician's visit was accompanied by blood pressure and heart rate increases that peaked within 4 minutes and then declined. the response was characterized by a relatively high average value; a large between-subject variability; no relation with patient age, baseline hemodynamic values, and responses to laboratory stressors; and no attenuation with multiple repetition of the physician's visit. on the other hand, the increase in blood pressure was considerably less when blood pressure assessment was made by a nurse than when it was made by a physician; in both instances, a 10-minute wait was associated with marked reduction of the initial response. thus, the stress inherent in usual blood pressure-measuring procedures is responsible for considerable overestimations of patients' blood pressures. there are means by which this can be minimized, although a residual error is likely to remain in most subjects. whether the stress-devoid blood pressure is a better prognostic index than the stress-related one remains unknown.
disseminated, nonmeningeal gastrointestinal cryptococcal infection in an hiv-negative patient. gastrointestinal cryptococcosis is extremely rare, especially in patients with no involvement of the central nervous system. we describe a 63-yr-old man undergoing prednisone therapy for chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis who presented with peritonitis, colitis, and skin lesions. pathological studies revealed necrosis and numerous cryptococcal organisms in the colon, omentum, and skin, and cultures yielded cryptococcus neoformans. the patient died of multisystem organ failure following emergency exploratory surgery performed when he had onset of symptoms of a bowel perforation after an endoscopic biopsy. clinicians should be aware that gastrointestinal cryptococcosis can occur in the absence of infection of the central nervous system or lungs, and that it may affect relatively healthy patients who are immunocompromised because of splenectomy, chronic liver disease, or steroid therapy.
community lifestyle characteristics and risk of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in children. high rates of leukaemia in children and young people have been associated with features of community isolation and population growth. incidence data collected by two specialist registries were used to compare incidence rates at ward level with relevant ward characteristics derived from routine census and ordnance survey data for england and wales. an excess risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (all) was found for wards which are farthest from large urban centres. the excess was greatest for wards of higher socioeconomic status and for children aged 1-7 years (the childhood peak), for which a two-fold excess was seen. these findings in general support the hypothesis that childhood leukaemia has an infectious aetiology.
a phase ii trial of carboplatin and vinblastine in the treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. cisplatin-containing regimens are active in the treatment of esophageal cancer, with response rates of 25% to 35% in advanced disease. carboplatin is less toxic than cisplatin; as a single agent, several responses were seen against esophageal tumors. to better define the role of carboplatin in esophageal cancer, the authors treated 19 chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus with carboplatin and vinblastine. carboplatin (450 mg/m2 intravenously [iv] on days 1, 29, 57, and every 6 weeks thereafter) was given with vinblastine (5 mg/m2 iv on day 1 and then every 2 weeks). no major responses were seen. no significant renal toxicity and only mild gastrointestinal toxicity (emesis, diarrhea) were observed. hematologic toxicity was more severe in patients with prior radiation therapy (rt), with three of six patients with prior rt exhibiting grade 4 hematologic toxicity. although generally less toxic than cisplatin-containing regimens, carboplatin and vinblastine is also less active in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. hematologic toxicity with this regimen was severe in patients who had received prior rt.
antenatal spontaneous perforation of the extrahepatic biliary tree. spontaneous perforation of the biliary system is an unusual neonatal phenomenon that is rarely recognized at birth. to date, it has not been reported antenatally. a 16-year-old pregnant adolescent had an ultrasonogram at 25 weeks of pregnancy that revealed ascites in the fetus. after the infant was delivered at 32 weeks, a hepato-iminodiacetic acid scan showed a spontaneous rupture of the common bile duct. the infant was treated with external drainage of the biliary tree and recovered well. this case demonstrates that spontaneous perforations of the bile ducts can occur much earlier than the usually described 2 to 12 weeks after birth, can be diagnosed antenatally, and should be added to the list of causes of fetal ascites.
treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm by exclusion and bypass: an analysis of outcome. abdominal aortic aneurysm is conventionally treated by aneurysmorrhaphy with inlying graft. alternatively, division of the aorta, with suture closure of the distal aorta and outflow vessels (exclusion of the aneurysm), and end-to-end proximal to distal bypass may be performed. however, the long-term fate of this operation has not been determined. specifically, concern exists that the excluded blood filled aneurysm may not thrombose or may be the source of late sepsis. during an 8-year period we have treated 280 abdominal aortic aneurysms (urgent and elective) by exclusion of the abdominal aortic aneurysm sac and bypass via the posterolateral retroperitoneal approach. mean age was 70 years (range, 44 to 88), with 217 men and 63 women. preoperative ct scanning and aortography were performed to assess arterial anatomy. seventy tube grafts and 260 bifurcation grafts were used. thirty-day mortality rate was 4%. estimated blood loss was 731 +/- 52 ml; mean transfusion requirements were 456 +/- 82 ml. the minor complication rate was 6%, and it is of great interest that there were no cases of ischemic colitis requiring colectomy. aneurysm sacs thrombosed except in two anticoagulated patients who required further treatment. no late infections occurred. five-year bypass patency rate was 98%. these data demonstrate that this method of treatment effectively minimized operative dissection and blood loss and therefore is a viable alternative for the management of abdominal aortic aneurysms.
endoscopic ultrasonography in staging rectal cancer. endoscopic ultrasonography (eus) was used to stage rectal cancer by assessing depth of invasion through bowel wall layers and/or involvement of lymph nodes. eus findings were correlated with histopathologic findings to discern the usefulness of this modality in predicting which patients could be candidates for sphinctersaving procedures and the avoidance of abdominoperineal resection. the olympus eu-m3 endoscopic ultrasound system was used to assess depth of penetration through rectal wall layers and to identify lymph nodes. comparison of eus findings to histopathologic findings was possible in 13 patients. eus agreed with histopathology in 9 of 13 cases (69.3%) ( p = 0.07, kappa statistic). eus agreed with histopathology as the presence or absence of lymph nodes in 9 of 13 cases (69.3%) (p = 0.07). however, the presence of lymph nodes could not necessarily predict metastatic involvement of these nodes. in one patient, invasion of vaginal cuff was correctly predicted. in nine cases, computed tomographic analysis (ct) was available for comparison to eus in detection of penetration beyond the bowel wall. ct agreed with histopathology in 3 of 9 (33%), whereas eus agreed with histopathology in 7 of 9 (78%).
organic dust toxic syndrome: an acute febrile reaction to organic dust exposure distinct from hypersensitivity pneumonitis. organic dust toxic syndrome is a term recently coined to describe a noninfectious, febrile illness associated with chills, malaise, myalgia, a dry cough, dyspnea, headache and nausea which occurs after heavy organic dust exposure. organic dust toxic syndrome shares many clinical features with acute farmer's lung and other forms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis, including the presence of increased numbers of neutrophils in bronchoalveolar lavage. however, organic dust toxic syndrome differs from acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis in several respects: the chest x-ray does not show infiltrates, severe hypoxemia does not occur, prior sensitization to antigens in the organic dust is not required and there are no known sequelae of physiological significance, such as the recurrent attacks and the pulmonary fibrosis which may be seen with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis. organic dust toxic syndrome is thought to be much more common than farmer's lung. it is important for clinical and investigational purposes that organic dust toxic syndrome be distinguished from acute farmer's lung.
the use of l-dopa and carbidopa in metastatic malignant melanoma. a combination of l-dopa and carbidopa was given orally to 17 patients with metastatic melanoma. maximum tolerated oral doses were given, up to 4 grams daily. no response was seen in 15 patients evaluable for response. toxicity was considerable, with seven of 17 patients (41%) stopping treatment because of unacceptable gastrointestinal toxicity or postural hypotension. contrary to previous anecdotal reports, there was no evidence that l-dopa/carbidopa treatment resulted in accelerated progression of metastatic melanoma. orally administered l-dopa/carbidopa is ineffective as therapy for advanced melanoma when maximum tolerated doses are used.
colonoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of ileocecal tuberculosis. two cases of ileocecal tuberculosis are presented. the diagnosis was achieved by endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology (fnac), while endoscopic biopsies and brush cytology were negative. the usefulness of endoscopic fnac in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal tract tuberculosis is highlighted.
glossopharyngeal schwannoma: review of five cases and the literature. glossopharyngeal schwannomas are rare tumors in spite of the fact that acoustic schwannomas account for 8%-10% of intracranial tumors. there have been 23 reported cases in the literature. this report of five cases is the largest series of these tumors. the presentation, radiological workup, operation, and long-term postoperative results will be presented, along with a review of the literature.
anatomy of anal sphincters and related structures in continent women studied with magnetic resonance imaging. five anally continent nulliparas of reproductive age were studied with magnetic resonance imaging. the internal and external anal sphincters could be easily delineated, as could the intervening longitudinal musculature, puborectalis muscle, anococcygeal raphe, anorectal lumen, vagina, uterus, bladder, urethra, coccyx, and pubis. the shape of the sphincters was nearly cylindrical, with an anterior component averaging 18.3 mm thick and 28.0 mm long. fifty-four percent of this anterior thickness was attributable to the internal sphincter. the anorectal angle varied considerably, with a mean of 86.8 +/- 19.1 degrees (range 60-112). the angle between the portion of the rectal lumen supported by the anococcygeal raphe, or levator plate, and the plane of the puborectalis muscle was consistent at 149.0 +/- 6.3 degrees (138-154). the finding of anterior anal sphincters with substantial thickness and length contrasts markedly with a view often pictured in the literature of a female anal sphincter that narrows anteriorly to half its posterior length and forms a small bundle of muscle rather than a broad band. knowledge of these relationships is important in primary repair of obstetric sphincter lacerations as well as in surgical correction of anal incontinence.
raynaud's syndrome. using a range of therapies to help patients. raynaud's syndrome is a common medical problem. approach to diagnosis must involve a search for underlying causes. treatment includes avoidance of precipitating factors, biofeedback, and possibly pharmacologic therapy, after careful consideration of risks.
detection, prevalence, and prognosis of asymptomatic carcinoma of the cervix. between 1979-1986, 82 of 407 patients (20%) treated for infiltrative carcinoma of the cervix were asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis. sixteen (20%) of these 82 patients had stage ia, 60 (73%) had stage ib, and six (7%) had stage iia disease. asymptomatic patients represented 16 of 23 (70%) of stage ia, 60 of 196 (31%) of stage ib, and six of 77 (8%) of stage iia. in the netherlands, population screening for cervical carcinoma is conducted on women aged 35-55 years. to examine the prevalence of asymptomatic cervical carcinoma and the way in which it was detected in different age groups, we studied the patients referred to our department. among the patients younger than 35 years with cervical carcinoma, 20 of 70 (29%) were asymptomatic with disease detected by incidental screening, whereas eight of 177 (5%) in the group 55 years or older had been detected by incidental screening. in the age category 35-55 years, 54 of 160 (34%) were asymptomatic. patients aged 35-55 years had undergone population screening or incidental screening. in the patients 55 years or older, asymptomatic disease was significantly less prevalent than in younger patients. only one of the 66 asymptomatic patients in stage ib or higher suffered tumor recurrence. among symptomatic patients, 25 of 136 (18%) with stage ib and 17 of 71 (24%) with stage iia had tumor recurrence. despite the favorable prognosis of patients with asymptomatic carcinoma, asymptomatic presentation could not be shown to be a significant prognostic factor, as were tumor diameter and lymph node status.
infantile systemic hyalinosis: newly recognized disorder of collagen? four infants with stiff skin and painful joint contractures in the first few months of life are described. other features included small papules, particularly on the face and trunk, perianal nodules, hyperpigmentation over the metacarpophalangeal joints and over the malleoli, gingival hyperplasia, persistent diarrhea, and failure to thrive. two of these infants died before the age of 18 months. in each case hyaline material was found in the papillary dermis. ultrastructurally, there was a distinctive fibrillogranular appearance in which a banding pattern could be observed. this material was also found within membrane-bound vacuoles in macrophages and fibroblasts. it had an appearance and localization identical with that of collagen type vi. these features are similar to those reported in juvenile hyaline fibromatosis. it is believed that these infants have a closely related, but nonetheless distinctive, inherited disorder of collagen.
erythema infectiosum and pregnancy-related complications erythema infectiosum, an acute, communicable viral disease with a highly distinctive exanthem, follows the usual course of a self-limiting benign disease. in pregnant women, however, it may be associated with fetal death and nonimmune hydrops fetalis. because of the association of human parvovirus (hpv) b19 infection with fetal damage we reviewed the current knowledge of the clinical aspects of erythema infectiosum, focusing on pregnancy and fetal outcome, to determine the magnitude of fetal risk and offer recommendations for management. among 180 infected pregnant women 44 fetal deaths (24%) occurred, 1 to 12 weeks after the infection was noted. pregnant women should be advised that (a) because of the high prevalence (up to 65%) of anti-hpv b19 igg antibody among adults most of them are not at risk and (b) if maternal infection does occur therapeutic abortion is not indicated since intrauterine infection causes fetal death more often than abnormal development. infection should be suspected in pregnant women who exhibit the symptoms of erythema infectiosum with or without arthropathy. they should be monitored for an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein level (indicating fetal aplastic crisis) and undergo serial ultrasonography for the detection of hydrops fetalis. although the incidence of congenital malformation is no higher than the expected rate in the general population (3% to 5%), the precise incidence of fetal adverse outcomes remains unknown and requires investigation in larger, prospective studies.
hemodynamic influence of lvad on right ventricular failure. left ventricular assist device (lvad) pumping has hemodynamic and anatomic influences on right ventricular performance. a total artificial heart (tah) model was employed to better understand the hemodynamic influence of an lvad on the failing right ventricle. biventricular failure was simulated by reducing both ventricular drive pressures of the tah. after getting hemodynamic data, lvad pumping in the case of right ventricular failure was simulated by increasing just the left ventricular drive pressure. in the lvad-simulating condition, cardiac output increased and right atrial pressure decreased significantly (p less than 0.05) compared with the biventricular failure condition, whereas right ventricular function and minute work were the same in these two conditions. even though changes were accompanied by adaptive increases in pulmonary resistance, substantially lower pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures resulted in the lvad-simulating condition. from a hemodynamic perspective, these results indicate that an lvad can increase right ventricular volume work by decreasing right ventricular pressure work, whereas right ventricular net pressure-volume work is unchanged and right ventricular failure is not worsened.
enhanced expression of cd2 antigen on lung t cells. cd2 molecules not only function in the adhesion of t cells to other cell types but also in the activation of t cells via an alternative pathway. to investigate the possible roles of cd2 molecules in the activation and accumulation of lung t cells, using monoclonal antibodies and a flow cytometer we evaluated cd2 antigen expression on lung and blood lymphocytes in 10 normal subjects, 30 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis, 7 patients with interstitial pneumonia associated with collagen vascular disease, 5 patients with farmer's lung disease, and 8 patients with crohn's disease. the mean fluorescence intensity (mfi) of cd2 on lung t cells obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) was significantly higher than that on blood t cells in all study groups except the control group. in patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis this enhancement of the expression of cd2 antigen was observed only on cd4+ t cells. since ligands for cd2 are present on immunocompetent cells of other types in the local pulmonary milieu, these results suggest that increased expression of cd2 molecules could facilitate the communication and interaction of lung t cells with their environment in the lung and thereby possibly contribute to the local accumulation of t cells.
six year follow up of a consecutive series of patients presenting to the coronary care unit with acute chest pain: prognostic importance of the electrocardiogram in a retrospective 6 year follow up data were obtained for 536 of 566 (95%) consecutive patients admitted to a coronary care unit with acute chest pain. their diagnoses were acute myocardial infarction in 290 (54%), myocardial ischaemia in 164 (31%), pericarditis in 16 (3%), and non-cardiac in 66 (12%). six year mortality was 36%, 24%, 0%, and 16% respectively. in patients with acute myocardial infarction a higher mortality rate during follow up was associated with a higher than average age, a higher than average creatine kinase, previous myocardial infarction, q wave infarction, and the presence of reciprocal changes. the presence of reciprocal changes was associated with higher than average concentration of serum creatine kinase, indicating more extensive infarction. infarction complicated by ventricular fibrillation or left bundle branch block was associated with a higher death rate. the electrocardiogram recorded at the time of acute myocardial infarction contains much useful prognostic information.
postural hypotension: pressor effect of octreotide not mediated by norepinephrine. orthostatic hypotension of the shy-drager syndrome is a chronic incapacitating condition characterized by lack of an appropriate increase in the plasma norepinephrine level in response to standing. recently, the somatostatin analogue octreotide has been reported to induce a pressor response in patients having this syndrome. we have reported a case of shy-drager syndrome in which octreotide was effective, but the rise in blood pressure was not accompanied by an increase in the plasma norepinephrine level. hence, the pressor effect of octreotide is not mediated by stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system, but probably through splanchnic vasoconstriction.
correlation of the structure of the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein with its function. the human homologue of the neu oncogene is frequently found in human tumors. certain amino acid substitutions at position 664 in the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein product are known to cause malignant transformation of cells. using conformational energy analysis based on ecepp (empirical conformational energies for polypeptides program), we have previously determined the preferred three-dimensional structures for the transmembrane domain of the p185 protein with a transforming (glutamic acid) and a nontransforming (valine) substitution at the critical position 664 and found that the global minimum-energy conformation of this region in the nontransforming protein contains a sharp bend, whereas the global minimum-energy conformation for this region from the transforming protein is entirely alpha-helical. we now demonstrate that this result holds for other known nontransforming (glycine, histidine, tyrosine, and lysine) and transforming (glutamine) substitutions at position 664. furthermore, a simple statistical thermodynamic analysis of the results indicates that approximately 85% of each of the nontransforming sequences exist with the bend at positions 664 and 665, while approximately 90% of each of the transforming sequences exist as an alpha-helix. about 9% of the nontransforming sequences exist as the alpha-helix. these results suggest that if the intracellular concentration of the normal protein is increased at least 10-fold, thereby increasing the alpha-helical form by this factor, cell transformation should result. this conclusion is directly supported by genetic experiments in which this level of overexpression of the normal protein was achieved with attendant cell transformation.
amelioration of cholinergic-induced pancreatitis with a selective cholecystokinin receptor antagonist. acute edematous pancreatitis follows excessive cholinergic stimulation in patients exposed to anticholinesterase-containing insecticides. we describe the role of cholecystokinin and the benefits of cholecystokinin receptor blockade in this form of pancreatitis. a cholinergic mimetic (carbachol) was administered to rats weighing 300 to 350 g and produced a form of edematous pancreatitis that mimics that seen in humans. animals received carbachol intraperitoneally, either alone (250 micrograms/kg of body weight) or with cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist devazepide (3 mg/kg of body weight) and were killed 4 hours later. carbachol administration resulted in a 19% increase in pancreatic weight, a fourfold increase in serum amylase levels, and a 14-fold increase in serum lipase levels. plasma cholecystokinin levels, however, were not altered. devazepide administered prior to cholinergic hyperstimulation blocked pancreatic weight increase and reduced elevations in serum amylase levels twofold and lipase levels fourfold. although cholecystokinin levels are not elevated in this model of pancreatitis, blockade of even low, background concentrations of this regulatory peptide is beneficial.
practicalities of lipids: icu patient, autoimmune disease, and vascular disease. although the use of lipids should be individualized, certain generalizations are appropriate. 1. lipid infusion should be limited in the fulminately septic patient to 10% of total calories in an effort to reduce immunosuppression. 2. the stressed, nonseptic patient with difficulties in ventilator weaning or tpn-induced hepatic dysfunction may reap benefit from a reduction in dextrose calories and the provision of daily lipids. 3. patients with severe autoimmune disease have had mild amelioration of symptoms with pufa supplementation. the relative benefits of omega-6 vs omega-3 continue to be examined. 4. dietary immunomodulation in transplant and burns remains an area of active investigation. 5. patients with fat-free tpn show transient declines in serum lipids. the development of a "fat-solubilizer" remains in the experimental realm. 6. the provision of fish oil, high in w-3 epa, has shown promise in atherosclerosis and immunomodulation. the changes in the relative amounts of each prostaglandin class depend on precursor prevalence.
surgical management of carcinoid heart disease metastatic carcinoid tumor is often seen with flushing, diarrhea, and cardiac symptoms--the carcinoid syndrome. cardiac failure is often associated with major morbidity and mortality in carcinoid disease. in this report, a case of successful cardiac valvar surgical intervention has resulted in prolonged alleviation of cardiac symptoms and survival.
contractility and stiffness of noninfarcted myocardium after coronary ligation in rats. effects of chronic angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. background. previous studies have shown that global left ventricular function is depressed after myocardial infarction. however, little is known about the effects of myocardial infarction on contractility and the passive-elastic properties of residual myocardium. methods and results. we evaluated isometric function and passive myocardial stiffness in isolated, noninfarcted left ventricular papillary muscle from rats 6 weeks after sham operation or myocardial infarction. maximal developed tension and peak rate of tension rise (+dt/dt) were significantly decreased in untreated rats with large myocardial infarction compared with controls (3.3 +/- 1.1 versus 4.3 +/- 0.6 g/mm2 and 49.5 +/- 17.5 versus 72.5 +/- 10.5 g/mm2/sec, respectively). time to peak tension was prolonged (120 +/- 8 versus 102 +/- 4 msec) and myocardial stiffness was increased in untreated myocardial infarction rats compared with controls (35.2 +/- 4.9 versus 24.2 +/- 3.7). rats with smaller myocardial infarctions differed from controls only with respect to a prolongation of time to peak tension. papillary muscle myocyte cross-sectional area was increased by 44% (p less than 0.05), and myocardial hydroxyproline content was increased by 160% (p less than 0.05) in rats with large myocardial infarctions compared with controls. to determine whether treatment that improves left ventricular function after myocardial infarction also improves myocardial function, rats were treated with captopril beginning 3 weeks after myocardial infarction and continuing for 3 weeks. treatment with captopril attenuated the prolongation in time to peak tension in the myocardial infarction rats; however, developed tension, +dt/dt, and muscle stiffness remained abnormal. compared with untreated myocardial infarction rats, captopril-treated myocardial infarction rats had a 9% decrease in myocyte cross-sectional area (p = 0.1) but a persistent increase in myocardial collagen content. in summary, large myocardial infarction in rats causes contractile dysfunction, increased stiffness, myocyte hypertrophy, and increased collagen content in the residual noninfarcted myocardium. treatment with captopril alters the process of cardiac remodeling and hypertrophy and improves one parameter of contractility in noninfarcted myocardium; however, myocardial collagen content and myocardial stiffness remain abnormal. conclusions. these findings suggest that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition in the rat infarct model of heart failure improves global cardiac performance via combined effects on myocardial function and the peripheral circulation.
left ventricular ejection fraction may not be useful as an end point of thrombolytic therapy comparative trials. in the era of comparative and adjunctive trials in reperfusion therapy, the need to develop alternative end points for mortality reduction is clear. left ventricular ejection fraction, which has been commonly used as a surrogate, is problematic due to missing values, technically inadequate studies, and lack of correlation with mortality results in controlled reperfusion trials performed to date. in this paper, we present a composite clinical end point that includes, in order, severity of adverse outcome death, hemorrhagic stroke, nonhemorrhagic stroke, poor ejection fraction (less than 30%), reinfarction, heart failure, and pulmonary edema. such a composite index may be useful to detect true therapeutic benefit in reperfusion trials without necessitating greater than 20-30,000 patient enrollment.
intravenous enalaprilat therapy for hypertension. the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril is available for intravenous administration in the form of enalaprilat. intravenous enalaprilat is indicated for the management of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. however, there are no reports of intravenous enalaprilat therapy exceeding one week in duration. we report the case of a critically ill, 39-year-old woman who received intravenous enalaprilat for the management of hypertension for a period of 21 days. the patient's blood pressure and heart rate were controlled adequately on a regimen of enalaprilat 1.25 mg iv piggyback q6h without any apparent adverse effects.
treatment of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome-related kaposi's sarcoma with bleomycin as a single agent. a nonrandomized trial was conducted to assess the efficiency and toxicity of bleomycin as a single agent in treatment of non-life-threatening aids-related kaposi's sarcoma (ks). sixty patients were enrolled in this study. they all had a disseminated and progressive non-life-threatening aids-related ks associated with systemic symptoms and/or cd4 lymphocyte count less than 400/mm3. thirty patients were treated with intramuscular bleomycin (5 mg/d for 3 days every 2 or 3 weeks) and 30 others with a slow continuous intravenous infusion of bleomycin (6 mg/m3/d for 4 days every 4 weeks). the mean duration of therapy was 5 months (range, 2 to 24 months). a partial response was observed in 29 patients (48.3%) and the disease was stabilized in 18 additional patients (30%). bleomycin failed in 21.6% of patients. therapy had to be discontinued in two patients because of side effects. thus bleomycin as a single agent is a good alternative therapy for aids-related ks.
the hypotympanum and infralabyrinthine cells in chronic otitis media. despite the localization implied by the term "chronic otitis media," little attention has been paid to the role of the hypotympanum in chronic active otitis media. most authors have emphasized the role of recurrent cholesteatoma or unexenterated cells in the mastoid cell system as causes of recurrent disease. seven cases are reported in which clinical evidence indicated that recurrent chronic otitis media was limited to the hypotympanum and infralabyrinthine cell system. in the five cases in which revision surgery was done, exenteration of this area resulted in an asymptomatic ear. the anatomy, radiographic evaluation, and surgical approach to the hypotympanum are reviewed. careful inspection of the hypotympanum in primary surgery for chronic ear disease and exenteration of the hypotympanic and proximal infralabyrinthine cell tract are advocated when these regions contain cholesteatoma or extensive granulomatous disease.
role of perfusion pressure and flow in major organ dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass. the role of perfusion pressure and flow during cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and hemodilution in the development of new postoperative renal or clinically apparent cerebral dysfunction was examined in 504 adults. cardiopulmonary bypass flow was targeted at greater than 40 ml.kg-1.min-1 and pressure at greater than 50 mm hg. flows and pressures less than target occurred in 21.6% and 97.1% of patients, respectively. fifteen patients (3.0%) suffered new renal and 13 (2.6%) new central nervous system dysfunction. low pressure or flow during cardiopulmonary bypass, expressed in absolute values or in intensity-duration units, were not predictors of either adverse outcome. multivariate analysis identified use of postoperative intraaortic balloon counterpulsation (p less than 10(-6], excessive blood loss in the icu (p less than 10(-4], need for vasopressors before cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 10(-4], postoperative myocardial infarction (p less than 10(-3], emergency reoperation (p less than 0.002), excessive postoperative transfusion (p less than 0.02), and chronic renal disease (p less than 0.03) as independent predictors of postoperative renal dysfunction. independent predictors of postoperative central nervous system dysfunction were cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the intensive care unit (p less than 10(-6], intracardiac thrombus or valve calcification (p less than 0.02), and chronic renal disease (p less than 0.03). age greater than 65 years (40.7% of patients) did not predict either outcome. we conclude that failure of the native circulation during periods other than cardiopulmonary bypass rather than the flows and pressures considered here is the major cause of renal and clinically apparent central nervous system dysfunction after cardiac operations.
the role of etoposide in the treatment of poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site. patients with poorly differentiated carcinoma (pdc) or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (pda) of unknown primary site comprise 25% to 35% of the patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site. some of these patients have neoplasms that are highly responsive to combination chemotherapy, and a minority have potentially curable tumors. between 1978 and 1982, 68 patients were treated with combination chemotherapy (most received cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin [pvb] with or without doxorubicin). thirty-eight patients (56%) responded to treatment, with 15 (22%) complete responder (cr) and 9 (13%) long-term, disease-free survivors. since that time, we have incorporated etoposide into the treatment of these patients because of its synergism with cisplatin and its great activity against several other neoplasms, including germ cell tumors. seventeen patients with pdc of unknown primary site received salvage therapy with etoposide and cisplatin after failing pvb. ten of these patients had partial responses (pr), with a median response duration of 5 months (range, 2 to 12 months). thirty-two previously untreated patients with pdc received etoposide and cisplatin combinations as initial treatment. eighteen of 30 evaluable patients (60%) responded to therapy, and 11 patients (37%) had cr. seven patients remain disease-free 39 to 63 months after the completion of therapy. etoposide is an active drug in the treatment of pdc of unknown primary site. preliminary results indicate that initial treatment with etoposide and cisplatin combinations produces results equivalent to or superior to those achieved with pvb.
differential histopathology of primary atherosclerotic and restenotic lesions in coronary arteries and saphenous vein bypass grafts: analysis of tissue obtained from 73 patients by directional atherectomy. vascular tissue obtained using a directional percutaneous atherectomy device was examined microscopically. tissue was obtained from coronary arteries without prior instrumentation (primary lesions, n = 31), aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass grafts with primary lesions (n = 8), coronary arteries with lesions developing after prior balloon angioplasty or mechanical atherectomy (restenotic lesions, n = 30) and vein bypass grafts with restenotic lesions (n = 4). primary lesions were characterized by dense intimal fibrosis with necrotic debris (83% of intimal tissue) and foam cells typical of atherosclerosis. these lesions frequently contained cholesterol crystals (45% of coronary arteries, 50% of vein grafts) and calcium deposits (65% of coronary arteries, 38% of vein grafts). restenotic lesions were characterized by an increased proportion of loose fibroproliferative tissue (45% of coronary artery intima, 35% of vein graft intima). immunohistochemical stains confirmed this proliferative tissue to be primarily smooth muscle cells. thrombus was rarely observed. comparison of resected tissues indicated that dense fibrosis and necrosis are significantly more common in primary than in restenotic lesions (83% versus 56% of intimal tissue, p = 0.0005), whereas smooth muscle cell hyperplasia is more common in restenotic than in primary lesions (44% versus 17% of intimal tissue, p less than 0.0005). partial-thickness resection of medial tissue or full-thickness resection of media with associated adventitial tissue occurred in 27 (56%) of 39 primary atheromatous lesions and 16 (47%) of 34 restenotic lesions; subintimal tissue obtained from primary lesions appeared identical to that obtained from restenotic lesions. these data indicate that the histopathologic characteristics of the neointimal layer of restenotic lesions differ from those of the intimal layer of primary atherosclerotic lesions.
survival and quality of life among patients receiving unproven as compared with conventional cancer therapy. background. cancer treatments without proved efficacy have achieved new levels of popularity, particularly among well-educated patients. the value of these therapies is vigorously debated. methods. we compared the length of survival and quality of life in patients who received treatment at a prominent unorthodox cancer clinic in addition to conventional treatment and in matched control patients from an academic cancer center who received only conventional treatment. all the patients had documented extensive malignant disease associated with a predicted median survival time of less than one year. the study sample consisted of 78 pairs of patients matched according to sex, race, age, diagnosis, and time from the diagnosis of metastatic or recurrent disease, who were enrolled over a period of 3 1/2 years. periodic follow-up (approximately every two months) continued until death. results. there was no difference between the two patient groups in length of survival. median survival for both groups was 15 months (p = 0.22; relative risk, 1.23; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.88 to 1.72). quality-of-life scores were consistently better among conventionally treated patients from enrollment on. conclusions. for this sample of patients with extensive disease and for this particular unorthodox treatment regimen, conventional and unorthodox treatments produced similar results.
limitations of electroencephalographic monitoring in the detection of cerebral ischemia accompanying carotid endarterectomy. an analysis was undertaken of 458 consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed over 6 years with the patient under general anesthesia and with electroencephalographic monitoring. seventy patients (15%) had electroencephalographic changes suggestive of ischemia with carotid clamping and had shunts placed. ischemic encephalographic changes occurred in 26% of patients with an occluded contralateral carotid artery, 21% of patients with a prior stroke history, and 12% of patients with no stroke history and a patent contralateral carotid artery. nineteen strokes (4.1%), nine transient deficits (2.0%), and one death (0.2%) occurred in the 458 endarterectomies in this experience. ten of the 19 strokes and five of nine transient deficits were immediately apparent when patients awoke from anesthesia. five of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all five patients with immediate transient deficits had no ischemic electroencephalographic changes during the procedure. two other patients with immediate strokes initially had ischemic electroencephalographic changes after carotid clamping that reversed with increased blood pressure or shunting. therefore 7 of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all 5 patients with immediate transient deficits had electroencephalographs unchanged from baseline at completion of the procedure, and thus deficits not manifest by operative electroencephalographic changes developed. our data do not support the tenet that electroencephalographic monitoring will always predict neurologic deficits accompanying carotid endarterectomy.
relation of serum lipoprotein cholesterol levels to presence and severity of angiographic coronary artery disease. to assess the relation of lipid levels to angiographic coronary artery disease (cad), lipid profiles were obtained on 125 men and 72 women undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography. cad, defined as greater than or equal to 25% diameter narrowing in a major coronary artery, was present in 106 men (85%) and 54 women (75%). multiple regression analyses revealed that only high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol level in men, and age and total/hdl cholesterol ratio in women, were independently associated with the presence of cad after adjustment for other risk factors. hdl cholesterol level and age were significantly correlated with both extent (number of diseased vessels) and severity (percent maximum stenosis) of cad in men. in women, age was the only independent variable related to severity, whereas age and total/hdl cholesterol ratio were related to extent. of 71 patients with total cholesterol less than 200 mg/dl, 79% had cad. with multiple regression analyses, hdl cholesterol was the only variable independently related to the presence and severity of cad in these patients after adjustment for age and gender; extent was significantly associated with age and male gender, and was unrelated to any of the lipid parameters. with use of multiple logistic and linear regression analyses of the group of 197 patients, hdl cholesterol was the most powerful independent variable associated with the presence and severity of cad after adjustment for age and gender. hdl cholesterol was also an independent predictor of extent. age was independently associated with each of the end points examined, and was the variable most significantly related to extent. these data add to the growing body of information demonstrating an important association between hdl and cad.
evidence of heterogeneous mechanisms in lipoprotein lipid alterations in hyperandrogenic women. fifty-one hyperandrogenic women had their lipoprotein lipid profiles determined. free and albumin-bound testosterone was associated with triglycerides and with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels, percent ideal body weight, and waist/hip ratio. to gain insight into mechanisms of these lipid alterations, the women were subgrouped according to apparent source of androgen excess. whereas all groups had low levels of high-density lipoprotein-2 cholesterol and high triglyceride concentrations, only in those with high luteinizing hormone-to-follicle-stimulating hormone ratios was free and albumin-bound testosterone associated with triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels. relationships between percent ideal body weight and waist/hip ratios, free and albumin-bound testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin, fasting insulin and 2-hour insulin levels and blood pressure are not significant in all subgroups, suggesting differing endocrinological influences and differing mechanisms for lipoprotein lipid alterations.
calcium channel blockers versus angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: renal effects. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers are two classes of antihypertensive agents with novel effects on renal function. in both experimental and clinical studies, calcium channel blockers tend to increase renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate, and urinary sodium excretion in essential hypertension. ace inhibitors have similar effects on renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate in essential hypertension, but they tend to cause sodium retention. ace inhibitors can cause marked reductions in glomerular filtration rate in renovascular hypertension, making them a problematic choice for the treatment of this form of hypertension. in chronic, progressive renal diseases, ace inhibitors have been shown to decrease protein excretion and morphologic evidence of glomerulosclerosis. the relationship of the decrease in protein excretion to the progression of renal disease has not yet been established.
platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine concentration in patients with pheochromocytoma. platelet and plasma catecholamine concentrations were determined in 17 patients with surgically proven pheochromocytoma (mean age 42.3 years); in 31 patients with borderline hypertension (mean age 35.3 years) and in 9 healthy controls (mean age 39.3 years). both platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine were significantly increased in patients with pheochromocytoma when compared with hypertensive and control groups (p less than .001). no correlation between platelet and plasma catecholamines was detected in all studied groups. the diagnostic accuracy of platelet catecholamine in pheochromocytoma is limited since increased platelet norepinephrine was found in 35.5% and increased platelet epinephrine was found in 19.4% of patients with essential hypertension.
quantitation of skin vasomotor control in normal subjects and in diabetic patients with autonomic neuropathy. peripheral autonomic neuropathy in diabetes has been difficult to evaluate. we have developed a test to quantitate sympathetic skin vasomotor function in the extremities. skin vasomotor reflexes were investigated after warming and cooling the left arm and recording changes in skin temperature as a measure of skin blood flow in the right hand and both feet. twenty-three diabetic patients with cardiac autonomic neuropathy and 28 healthy control subjects were examined. in contrast to the healthy subjects, the diabetic patients showed reduced or even absent responses in skin temperature to both warming and cooling. the rate of skin temperature decrease for the hand and feet during cooling, which was used as the actual parameter to quantitate skin vasomotor control, was significantly reduced in the diabetic group as compared with the healthy control subjects. we conclude that this technique provides a simple non-invasive method for quantitating skin vasomotor function in the extremities of diabetic patients.
magnitude and time course of beta-adrenergic antagonism during oral amiodarone therapy. to examine the presence and time course of beta-adrenergic antagonism produced by amiodarone, the heart rate, qt interval and arrhythmia frequency in response to graded doses of isoproterenol were evaluated in eight patients treated with oral amiodarone for sustained ventricular tachycardia. measurements were made before and every 2 days after beginning oral amiodarone therapy (600 mg twice daily). isoproterenol was given in doses of 12.5, 25 and 50 ng/kg body weight per min. the mean heart rate at rest decreased from 73.1 +/- 17.8 beats/min on day 0 to 57.8 +/- 15.0 beats/min after 12 days of amiodarone therapy. a significant linear decline in heart rate at rest was observed until day 6 (p less than 0.05 for all comparisons). on all days isoproterenol produced a progressive increase in heart rate that reached 115.5 +/- 20.2 beats/min on day 0 and 94.2 +/- 18.5 beats/min on day 12. amiodarone blunted the heart rate increase produced by isoproterenol on days 2 to 12 (p less than 0.05 versus day 0). this effect was present by day 2 and did not change significantly thereafter. the mean corrected qt (qtc) interval increased from 430 +/- 30 ms on day 0 to 449 +/- 63 ms on day 12. a significant linear increase in qtc interval was observed until day 6 (p less than 0.05 for all comparisons). there was no systematic effect of isoproterenol on the qtc interval. five of eight patients had a significant number of isoproterenol-induced premature ventricular complexes. ventricular ectopic activity in response to isoproterenol was abolished after 4 days of amiodarone therapy.
treatment of postoperative infection of ascending aorta and transverse aortic arch, including use of viable omentum and muscle flaps. postoperative infection of the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 40 patients was treated by antibiotic therapy alone (4 patients) or by operation and lifelong suppressive antibiotic therapy (36 patients). complications of infection included antibiotic-resistant infection, infected false aneurysm, rupture of suture line, aortocutaneous fistulas, aortic-right ventricular fistulas, arterial embolus, aortic valve insufficiency, aortobronchial fistula, mediastinal abscess, and chest wall problems. these were treated by a variety of operations including composite valve-graft replacement, graft replacement, patch-graft closure of false aneurysm, simple suture of disrupted suture lines and false aneurysm, and debridement of mediastinum and chest wall. the area of reconstruction was covered, and mediastinal dead space was reduced by mobilization of viable tissue, including local tissue and distant structures such as flaps of muscle and omentum. thirty-three patients (83%) were early survivors, and 28 patients (70%) were alive and well at last follow-up 4 months to 6.5 years after operation.
flow cytometric analysis of dna content in partial hydatidiform moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor. hydatidiform moles may be classified as partial or complete based on genetic and pathologic criteria. between january 1979 and january 1990, 17 (5.5%) of 310 patients followed for partial mole developed persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor. tissues from 14 partial moles were available for flow cytometric analysis of dna content. eleven partial moles (85%) were triploid, two (15%) were diploid, and one dna histogram was uninterpretable. all patients with triploid partial moles achieved complete remission with one course of single-agent chemotherapy. the two with diploid partial mole required multiple courses of chemotherapy to achieve gonadotropin remission. although the dna content of most partial moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor was triploid, diploid partial moles with persistent tumor were less sensitive to single-agent chemotherapy.
diet and female sex hormone concentrations: an intervention study for the type of fat consumed. a possible mechanism by which dietary fat may influence the development of breast cancer is by influencing the concentration of female sex hormones. this study investigated the effect of alteration in the type of fat consumed on concentrations of female sex hormones in serum. female volunteers were randomly assigned to continue on their usual meat-eating diet, change to a vegetarian diet, or change to a diet that was predominantly vegetarian but where fish was consumed at least three times per week. change to the vegetarian or fish diet had little effect on diet total hormone concentrations; however, the amount of estradiol was significantly decreased in the vegetarian group. when nutrient consumption was correlated with hormone concentrations, prolactin was directly associate with fat consumption, sex-hormone-binding globulin was inversely associated with fat consumption (particularly cholesterol consumption), and the proportion of nonprotein-bound estradiol was directly associated with complex carbohydrate consumption.
hepatic amino-nitrogen clearance to urea-nitrogen in control subjects and in patients with cirrhosis: a simplified method. the functional hepatic nitrogen clearance during amino acid infusion is a measure of liver cell mass. the clinical feasibility of the test has so far been limited by methodological problems. a simplified procedure was used to measure the urea-nitrogen synthesis rate and functional hepatic nitrogen clearance in nine subjects with normal liver function and in nine patients with cirrhosis. the method was based on only four consecutive 2-hr urine collections and five blood samples. total body water was calculated from a nomogram based on age and anthropometric data, whereas the gut urea hydrolysis was assigned one fixed fraction of synthesis (0.17 in control subjects and 0.26 in patients with cirrhosis). finally, a solution of a single amino acid, alanine, was infused as substrate for urea synthesis. urea-nitrogen synthesis rate increased linearly with increasing alpha-amino-nitrogen concentration, and the slope of the regression (functional hepatic nitrogen clearance) was reduced in cirrhosis from 37.5 +/- 7.0 l/hr to 18.4 +/- 6.7 l/hr; p less than 0.005. the hepatic nitrogen clearance was linearly related to the clinical status (child-pugh score), to routine liver function tests and to galactose elimination capacity (r = 0.869), a well-established, quantitative, liver function measure. the simplified method makes the measurement of hepatic nitrogen clearance suitable for routine clinical use. the test might prove useful to study the alterations of nitrogen metabolism in cirrhosis, with special reference to hepatic encephalopathy.
sexual changes in hemiparetic patients. eighty-six patients, each with hemiparesis caused by a single stroke, were studied to assess the changes in sexual life experienced after the onset of the illness. clinical data were collected, and a questionnaire concerning both sexual behavior and feelings about sexuality was administered to the patients and their spouses. twenty-four couples were eliminated from further analysis because of a discrepancy between husband and wife in the answers concerning sexual behavior after stroke. a marked decline in sexual activity after stroke was found in both genders; other aspects of sexual behavior underwent fewer changes. the feeling of an overall change in sexual life was reported more frequently by male patients. most patients' spouses reported the feeling of an overall psychological change in their partners and the feeling of an overall change in sexual life after the onset of the illness. no significant associations were found between clinical features and changes in sexual life. this study confirms that cerebrovascular accidents are generally followed by some important alterations in sexual life. clinical factors do not seem to play a crucial role in determining these changes, which may be better explained in terms of maladjustment attributable to psychologic and interpersonal factors.
intraocular pressure and the rate of visual field loss in chronic open-angle glaucoma. we measured the rate of change of visual field threshold values over time (mean follow-up, 44.9 +/- 17.4 months) by trend analysis in 40 eyes of 40 patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma. twenty-eight eyes had stable visual fields, and two eyes had significant visual field improvement. ten eyes had significant visual field deterioration and showed a correlation between indices of intraocular pressure (standard error of the mean, p = .02; standard deviation, p = .04; and range, p = .05) and the rate of visual field loss in the superonasal region of the visual field, such that the greater the variation of intraocular pressure the greater the rate of loss. the group losing visual fields had a higher mean visual field threshold value and significantly less optic disk pallor and cupping at the start of the study than the stable visual field group. thus, a significant rate of visual field loss occurred at an earlier stage of the disease and showed a correlation with intraocular pressure in this stage.
effect of v1-vasopressin receptor blockade on arterial pressure in conscious rats with cirrhosis and ascites. angiotensin ii blockade with saralasin in human cirrhosis with ascites is associated with a significant reduction in arterial pressure, indicating that endogenous angiotensin ii plays an important role in the maintenance of systemic hemodynamics in this condition. the aim of the current study was to investigate whether vasopressin also contributes to the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhosis with ascites. the study was performed using three groups of cirrhotic rats with ascites and three groups of control animals. the administration of d(ch2)5tyr(me)avp, a selective antagonist of the vascular effect of vasopressin, to 10 cirrhotic rats induced a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure (from 94 +/- 4 to 85 +/- 4 mm hg; p less than 0.001) and a significant increase in plasma renin activity (from 24.3 +/- 4.9 to 34.3 +/- 5.9 ng/ml.h; p less than 0.02) and plasma norepinephrine concentration (from 1474 +/- 133 to 2433 +/- 253 pg/ml; p less than 0.01). similar results were observed following saralasin administration in a second group of 5 cirrhotic rats [mean arterial pressure decreased from 97 +/- 4 to 85 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.0001); and plasma renin activity and norepinephrine concentration increased from 18.4 +/- 5.8 to 40.3 +/- 5.7 ng/ml.h (p less than 0.02) and from 1383 +/- 70 to 2312 +/- 334 pg/ml (p less than 0.05), respectively]. the simultaneous blockade of angiotensin ii and vasopressin in a third group of cirrhotic rats resulted in a significantly greater reduction of mean arterial pressure (from 97 +/- 6 to 74 +/- 6 mm hg; p less than 0.05). no changes in arterial pressure were observed in the three groups of control rats. these findings indicate that endogenous vasopressin is as important as angiotensin ii in the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhotic rats with ascites and support the contention that arterial hypotension is the initial event leading to the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system and vasopressin in this animal model of cirrhosis.
renal vein renins: inability to predict response to revascularization in patients with hypertension. to determine whether the captopril-stimulated renal vein renin ratio (csrvrr) could enable identification of patients with hemodynamically significant renovascular lesions who would respond to revascularization, the authors measured csrvrrs in 143 consecutive patients with hypertension who had been selected because of clinical features suggestive of renovascular hypertension. all patients underwent conventional renal arteriography. renovascular hypertension was the final diagnosis if revascularization resulted in cure or improvement in blood pressure. complete data were available for 133 patients. twenty patients had renovascular hypertension; csrvrr was greater than 1.5 in 13 of these 20 patients (sensitivity, 65%). however, it was also greater than 1.5 in 54 of the 113 patients without renovascular hypertension (false-positive rate, 47.8%). the positive predictive value of csrvrr was 18.6%; the negative predictive value, 89.3%. it is concluded that csrvrr is not sufficiently sensitive to enable prediction of which patients will respond to revascularization and is not specific enough to exclude patients who do not have renovascular hypertension.
intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy and acute fatty liver of pregnancy. an unusual but favorable association? during the 26th week of a first pregnancy, a 25-year-old woman presented with pruritus suggesting an intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. the pruritus, however, persisted despite the premature delivery of a normal newborn at the 35th week. moreover, aspartate aminotransferase activity increased, reaching a maximum of 38 times normal level on the 17th day after the delivery. thus, an acute fatty liver of pregnancy was suspected and confirmed by liver biopsy. this patient appeared to have both intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy and acute fatty liver of pregnancy, an association not previously reported. it is suggested that intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy caused premature delivery, which in turn may have prevented the onset of severe maternal and fetal complications caused by acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
a newly recognized fastidious gram-negative pathogen as a cause of fever and bacteremia background. we identified a motile, curved, gram-negative bacillus as the cause of persistent fever and bacteremia in two patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection. the same organism was subsequently recovered from a bone marrow-transplant recipient with septicemia and from two immunocompetent persons with week-long febrile illnesses. all the patients recovered after antimicrobial therapy. methods and results. primary cultures of blood processed by centrifugation after blood-cell lysis yielded adherent, white, iridescent, morphologically heterogeneous colonies in 5 to 15 days. subcultures grew in four days on chocolate, charcoal-yeast extract, or blood agar. the organisms stained weakly with safranin and were not acid-fast. fluorescent-antibody tests for legionella and francisella were negative. biochemical reactivity was minimal and difficult to ascertain. agar-dilution testing revealed in vitro susceptibility to most antimicrobial agents tested. the cellular fatty acid composition of the isolates was similar, resembling that of rochalimaea quintana or brucella species, but not helicobacter pylori or species of campylobacter or legionella. as resolved by gel electrophoresis, cell-membrane preparations of all isolates contained similar proteins, with patterns that differed from that of r. quintana. patterns of digestion of dna from all isolates by ecorv restriction endonuclease were virtually identical and also differed from that of r. quintana. on immunodiffusion, serum from one convalescent patient produced a line of identity with sonicates of all five isolates. conclusions. this pathogen may have been unidentified until now because of its slow growth, broad susceptibility to antimicrobial agents, and possible requirement of blood-cell lysis for recovery in culture. it should be sought as a cause of unexplained fever, especially in persons with defective cell-mediated immunity.
paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis: clinico-pathological correlations. three new cases of limbic encephalitis in association with malignancy are reported. the literature on this condition is reviewed and the clinical, laboratory and histopathological features of cases proven at necropsy are correlated. the possible pathogenic mechanism of this disorder is discussed.
hemodynamics in internal carotid artery occlusion examined by positron emission tomography. using positron emission tomography in nine patients with minor strokes, unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion, and good collateral circulation through the anterior portion of the circle of willis, we analyzed regional cerebral blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen, oxygen extraction fraction, and cerebral blood volume. these studies allowed quantification of the regional hemodynamic status, especially in relation to watershed areas. compared with eight normal controls, the patients had significantly (p less than 0.01) decreased regional cerebral blood flow in the middle cerebral artery territory and the surrounding watershed areas of the occluded hemisphere. the oxygen extraction fraction rose with the distance from the anterior portion of the circle of willis, attaining the highest value in the superior parietal and posterior temporo-occipital watershed area. a concomitant decrease in the cerebral blood flow/cerebral blood volume ratio suggested reduction in the mean blood flow velocity, whereby elevated blood viscosity would be more liable to reduce cerebral blood flow. these findings suggest hemodynamic vulnerability of the watershed areas after internal carotid artery occlusion in persons with good collateral circulation through the anterior portion of the circle of willis. our results also emphasize the importance of systemic hemodynamic factors such as blood pressure and circulating blood volume in the genesis of watershed infarction.
the immunoperoxidase localization of tumour markers in ovarian cancer: the value of cea, ema, cytokeratin and dd9. primary tumours from 40 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, treated at st thomas's hospital over a 10-year period, were studied for the immunocytochemical expression of the following tumour markers in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded material: carcinoembryonic antigen (cea), epithelial membrane antigen (ema), cytokeratin (cam 5.2), and dd9. an indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique was used. all of the tumours were positive for ema and cam 5.2, and 30% of them were positive for both cea and dd9. the absence of cea and dd9 may be of value in differentiating between metastatic abdominal adenocarcinomas of ovarian origin and those of gastrointestinal origin, but no indication of prognosis was obtained using these epithelial markers. the strong and widespread staining of all the tumours for ema suggests that this may be a useful marker for detecting metastatic or recurrent disease by immunoscintigraphy.
effect of recombinant hirudin, a specific inhibitor of thrombin, on endotoxin-induced intravascular coagulation and acute lung injury in pigs. we hypothesized that thrombin activation may play a prominent role in endotoxin-induced secondary organ failure, such as acute lung injury. to test this hypothesis, we administered a thrombin-specific inhibitor, recombinant hirudin, in endotoxemic pigs. the pigs were anesthetized, mechanically ventilated, and prepared with swan-ganz and extravascular lung water (evlw) catheters. a total of 18 randomly selected animals received a pretreatment of 1,000 u/kg of hirudin, followed by a continuous infusion over 6 h of 500 u/kg/h given simultaneously with the infusion of 10 micrograms/kg/h of salmonella abortus equi endotoxin. another 18 animals received a continuous infusion over 6 h of endotoxin but did not receive hirudin. all animals were fluid resuscitated with 17 ml/kg/h of saline for the duration of the experiment. data are expressed as the mean (95% confidence interval). hirudin reduced the endotoxin-induced consumption of plasma fibrinogen from -110 (-138 to -82) mg/100 ml to -39 (-67 to -12) mg/100 ml (p = 0.0001) and endotoxin-induced increases in the soluble fibrin in plasma from 434 (369 to 499) ng/ml to 236 (171 to 300) ng/ml (p = 0.0002). these data suggest an effective inhibition of the endotoxin-generated thrombin by hirudin. furthermore, hirudin significantly reduced endotoxin-induced increases in pulmonary vascular resistance from 32 (27 to 37) kdyn x s x cm-5 x kg to 20 (15 to 25) kdyn x s x cm-5 x kg (p = 0.0015) and increases in evlw from 15.4 (13.2 to 17.6) ml/kg to 12.2 (10.0 to 14.4) ml/kg (p = 0.0299).
bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children: a clinical study. bismuth subsalicylate (bss) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children, aged 4 to 28 months, hospitalized with acute diarrhea. the dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days. significant benefits were noted in the bss group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency, significant improvement in clinical well-being, and shortening of the disease duration. patients treated with bss had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay (6.9 days) compared with placebo-treated patients (8.5 days). also, intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the bss-treated group. bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic escherichia coli from the stools in 100% of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination. bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects. blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic. in this study, bss provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea, allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff.
irritable bowel syndrome in office-based practice in the united states. united states estimates of the frequency of visits to physicians and patterns of medical care for the diagnosis of the irritable bowel syndrome were derived from the 1975, 1980-1981, and 1985 national ambulatory medical care surveys. these surveys of office-based physicians allow national estimates of various aspects of ambulatory care. the overall rate of visits with the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome in 1980-1981 and 1985 were 10.6 per thousand u.s. population. women had 2.4 times the rate of visits by men and rates rose in both sexes until middle-age. irritable bowel syndrome was the leading digestive disease diagnosis among gastroenterologists but only the seventh leading diagnosis among all physicians. gastrointestinal symptoms, association with mental disorders, prescriptions, and disposition were also examined in patients with visits for irritable bowel syndrome. among records with digestive tract symptoms and a first listed diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome, stomach or abdominal pain was listed on only about one half of records and disorders of bowel function were listed on fewer than 40%. in 1975 and 1985, irritable bowel syndrome was noted approximately twice as often as other digestive diseases at visits with mental disorder symptoms and diagnosis, although mental disorder symptoms and diagnoses were noted at fewer than 15% of visits with irritable bowel syndrome. medications were prescribed at approximately 75% of visits for irritable bowel syndrome; the most common were gastrointestinal medications followed by combination gastrointestinal-psychoactive medications. subsequent appointments were scheduled following at least 50% of the visits of patients with irritable bowel syndrome.
optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia. continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure. the purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention. optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients. factors common to series with excellent results, such as patient selection and operative technique, are examined, and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease, which continue to plague even the best surgical series, are discussed.
perioperative methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin (m-vac) for poor risk transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder: an eastern cooperative oncology group pilot study. a total of 18 patients with locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent 2 preoperative cycles of chemotherapy with methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy and 2 postoperative cycles of chemotherapy. radical cystectomy was performed in 17 of 18 patients (94%) with a pathological partial response in 3 (17%) and a pathological complete response in 2 (11%), for an over-all response rate of 28% (95% confidence limits 10 to 53%). at 23-month median followup 9 patients (50%) remained without evidence of recurrent disease, while 9 (50%) died of metastatic bladder cancer. average relative dose intensity of all therapy given was 78%. hematological toxicity was moderate, with no septic deaths or bleeding complications. however, 4 thromboembolic events occurred. while downstaging of the primary bladder tumor can occur with this perioperative schedule our results were not as impressive as some previously reported findings. the incidence of thromboembolic events is worrisome.
replacement of the aortic valve or root with a pulmonary autograft in children. between january 1967 and december 1988, 34 patients ranging in age from 3 to 18 years (mean, 14 +/- 3.6 years) underwent replacement of the aortic valve or root with their own pulmonary valve. the indication for operation was left ventricular outflow obstruction in 16 patients (47%), aortic regurgitation in 14 (41%), mixed aortic valve disease in 3 (9%), and failure of a previously implanted aortic homograft in 1 (3%). there were four early deaths, all before 1971, giving a hospital mortality of 11.8% (70% confidence interval, 6% to 20%). surviving patients have been followed up a cumulative total of 214 patient-years, the longest period of observation being 16 years 8 months. late mortality was 13.3% (70% confidence interval, 7% to 23%), and 4 other patients required removal of the pulmonary autograft for endocarditis. actuarial rates at 16 years were 74% +/- 11% for freedom from reoperation on the left ventricular outflow tract, 80% +/- 10% for freedom from reoperation on the right ventricular outflow tract, and 77% +/- 10% for late survival. there was no instance of primary structural degeneration in the pulmonary autograft, and all surviving patients were in new york heart association functional class i without medication. this experience demonstrates that the pulmonary autograft can achieve good early and medium-term results in young patients. should growth potential be realized, it might constitute the ideal biological valve for the left ventricular outflow in children.
direct monitoring of capillary perfusion following normovolemic hemodilution in an experimental skin-flap model. the effects of normovolemic hemodilution on skin flap survival are studied in a recently developed skin-flap model (homozygous hairless mouse ear) in which nutritional capillary flow is monitored directly by means of intravital microscopy from the time of flap creation throughout the establishment of necrosis. two diluting agents (dextran 60 and hydroxyethyl starch 200) are utilized. our quantitative findings demonstrate that the amount of nonperfused tissue following flap creation in both the dextran (n = 23) and starch (n = 13) groups was significantly decreased as compared with controls (n = 19). our qualitative observations suggest that improved hemorrheologic properties at the microcirculatory level are responsible for the observed decreased necrosis. various mechanisms by which hemodilution may act to prevent necrosis are discussed.
effect of a calcium-entry blocker, nicardipine, on intrarenal hemodynamics in essential hypertension. the effects of a calcium-entry blocker, nicardipine, on intrarenal hemodynamics were studied in essential hypertension. a 4-week study was performed in eight patients with essential hypertension who were given a regular sodium diet in the first and third weeks, and a sodium-restricted diet in the second and fourth weeks. nicardipine, 60 mg/d, was administered in the third and fourth weeks. the urinary sodium excretion rate (unav) was plotted on the y-axis against the mean arterial pressure (map) on the x-axis before and after the administration of nicardipine. assuming the difference between map and the x-intercept of this renal function curve represents the effective filtration pressure across the glomerular capillaries, the intrarenal hemodynamics such as afferent arteriolar resistance (ra) and efferent arteriolar resistances (re), glomerular pressure (pg), and gross filtration coefficient (kfg) were calculated. although the map on regular salt diet was lowered from 125 +/- 3 to 109 +/- 2 mm hg by nicardipine, neither the renal blood flow rate (rbf) (670 +/- 40 ml/min) nor the glomerular filtration rate (gfr) (79 +/- 2 ml/min) was altered. the ra was estimated to be reduced from 9,300 +/- 900 to 7,400 +/- 700 dyne.s.cm-5 (p less than 0.01), while no changes were noted in re (4,900 +/- 400 dyne.s.cm-5), pg (50 +/- 1 mm hg), or kfg (0.180 +/- 0.041 [ml/s]/mm hg). essential hypertension has been characterized by a prominent increase in ra, resulting in maintenance of normal pg. this ca-entry blocker worked to normalize intrarenal hemodynamics in essential hypertension by dilating afferent arterioles alone.
management of arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the forearm. we initially observed our patient, who had subcutaneous arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the volar forearm, until his wound demarcation was complete. after wound demarcation, we proceeded with debridement and partial-thickness skin grafting. upper extremity function was totally normal 3 months after this therapy. this is the first case report in the literature that describes a child with an arginine monohydrochloride-induced extravasation necrosis.
acute pulmonary oedema on the ruwenzori mountain range. a 40 year old man had an episode of severe pulmonary oedema at 4000-5000 m during the ascent of the margherita peak (5109 m) of mount stanley on the ruwenzori. he had taken acetazolamide and high dose dexamethasone to treat symptoms of acute mountain sickness. six years before he had been studied by right heart catheterisation as a healthy volunteer during hypoxic breathing at sea level. his pulmonary vascular reactivity had been within the normal range for 32 healthy subjects. this man had high altitude pulmonary oedema despite currently recommended treatments for acute mountain sickness and normal pulmonary vascular reactivity to hypoxia at sea level.
single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography in cancer imaging. single photon emission computed tomography (spect) and positron emission tomography (pet) are now being used to improve the information available from radioisotopic imaging of patients with cancer. these nuclear medicine techniques offer the potential for studying regional function and biochemistry by using radiolabeled substrates. the chemical changes of malignancy precede anatomic changes, and pet and/or spect may detect these changes before anatomic changes have occurred. the superiority of spect compared with planar imaging has been demonstrated for cardiac and brain imaging. radiopharmaceuticals containing technetium 99 m (99mtc) are best suited for spect imaging because large amounts of radioactivity are administered and the collimator-camera systems are optimized for the 140 kev photons of 99mtc. the current interest in imaging cancer with spect relates to the use of gallium 67 citrate and monoclonal antibodies labeled with iodine 123 or indium 111. spect can image these radioisotopes, but the advantages compared with planar imaging have not been clearly defined. furthermore, the ability to quantitate the distribution of single photon emitters other than 99mtc has not been demonstrated. new spect systems with three heads or rings of detectors offer promise for improved, quantitative imaging. pet has the capability of imaging tracers with the biologically important elements c-11, n-13, o-15, and f-18 used for positron labeling. these radioisotopes have short half-lives and require a cyclotron close to the pet facility. the most prominently used radiopharmaceutical for pet is f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg). pet studies with fdg in patients with primary brain tumors have demonstrated the ability to determine the degree of malignancy, to differentiate necrosis from recurrent tumor after radiation therapy or chemotherapy, and to predict prognosis. other metabolic functions of cancer have been studied, including amino acid accumulation, thymidine uptake, oxygen utilization, intermediary metabolism, and receptor status. pet has the potential to make a major impact on the characterization of a malignancy and the effect of therapy.
infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiency with hepatomuscular symptoms and sudden death. physiopathological approach to carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiencies. reported cases of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii (cpt ii) deficiency are characterized only by a muscular symptomatology in young adults although the defect is expressed in extra-muscular tissues as well as in skeletal muscle. we describe here a cpt ii deficiency associating hypoketotic hypoglycemia, high plasma creatine kinase level, heart beat disorders, and sudden death in a 3-mo-old boy. cpt ii defect (-90%) diagnosed in fibroblasts is qualitatively similar to that (-75%) of two "classical" cpt ii-deficient patients previously studied: it resulted from a decreased amount of cpt ii probably arising from its reduced biosynthesis. consequences of cpt ii deficiency studied in fibroblasts differed in both sets of patients. an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids was found in the proband but not in patients with the "classical" form of the deficiency. the metabolic and clinical consequences of cpt ii deficiency might depend, in part, on the magnitude of residual cpt ii activity. with 25% residual activity cpt ii would become rate limiting in skeletal muscle but not in liver, heart, and fibroblasts. as observed in the patient described herein, cpt ii activity ought to be more reduced to induce an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids in these tissues.
posttranslational gastrin processing depends on tumor morphology. extracellular matrices have recently been demonstrated to alter cell morphology in culture. altered cell morphology has been associated with changes in gene transcription and translation, but it is not known whether it also affects posttranslational processing. using tyrosine-o-sulfation as a marker of processing, we studied the effects of various substrates on biologically active gastrin (irg) production and sulfation in gastrin-containing tumor cells (gt cells). dispersed gt cells were plated onto different substrates and then incubated. culture media from days 4, 7, and 28 were assayed with specific antibodies that recognize total irg and nonsulfated irg. cells cultured on plastic and dried films of laminin, collagen, and matrigel (collaborative research inc., lexington, mass.) flattened and formed monolayers of gt cells. cells cultured on a porous membrane and hydrated gels of collagen and matrigel did not flatten but formed spheroids of gt cells. the monolayer cultures showed an increase in sulfation with time but a decrease in irg production. the spheroid cultures maintained a constant level of sulfation over time and, with the exception of matrigel (gel), also showed a decrease in irg production. these results indicate that the level of sulfation was unchanged from that of the original tumor when cells were grown in spheroids but increased when cultured as monolayers. it appears that alteration of the cellular milieu alters colony morphology, which in turn alters gastrin processing.
unusual opening of coronary sinus in atrioventricular septal defects. the coronary sinus is an important landmark for the position of the atrial component of the atrioventricular conduction axis and, thus, assumes special relevance to the surgeon in the operating room. we describe here 2 patients with atrioventricular septal defect characterized by an unusual termination of the coronary sinus within the left atrium. we discuss the potential importance of this finding to the disposition and surgical avoidance of the conduction tissues.
assessment of the components of observed chronic pain behavior: the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior (chip). this article describes the development of the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior (chip), an observation scale which assesses overt pain behavior. the study is an extension of an earlier study in which the dimensions and components of observed chronic pain behavior were examined. a broad definition of pain behavior is chosen (interpersonal pain behavior), namely the interaction between the pain patient and his/her direct environment. the list of pain behaviors, taken from the earlier study, has been transformed into a 78-item global rating scale to be used by nurses to quantify observed pain behavior in a clinical setting. six studies examine the factor structure and the psychometric properties of this behavioral observation method. in the first study, 6 internally reliable factors are derived using factor analytic techniques from a sample of 152 chronic pain patients. they are labeled as: 'distorted mobility,' 'verbal complaints,' 'non-verbal complaints,' 'nervousness,' 'depression' and 'day sleeping.' internal consistency of all factors, except 'day sleeping' was excellent. the following studies show that the chip is sufficiently reliable and valid. after a discussion on the advantages of this observation scale, the conclusion seems justified that the chip is a useful tool in pain assessment that can easily be used by nurses.
the turp syndrome. this article discusses the presentation, aetiology, treatment and prevention of central nervous system disturbances after transurethral resection of the prostate. nausea and vomiting, visual symptoms, and altered states of consciousness have been reported as complications due to intravascular absorption of irrigating fluid. hypotonicity after absorption of the irrigating fluid causes cerebral oedema. hyperglycinaemia may cause visual disturbances and hyperammonaemia may cause delayed coma.
venous infarction following the interhemispheric approach in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. postoperative venous infarction following aneurysm surgery was studied in 48 patients with anterior communicating artery aneurysms operated on through the interhemispheric approach at the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). of 23 patients whose bridging veins were sacrificed during surgery, 11 (47.8%) showed venous infarction in the frontal lobes. in contrast, only one (5.9%) of 17 patients whose bridging veins were preserved developed cerebral edema. none of eight patients who were operated on after day 11 (the day of sah was defined as day 0) showed this complication, although bridging veins were sacrificed in six of them. venous infarction following acute aneurysm surgery tended to occur more frequently in patients of higher sah grade and/or more advanced age, but these correlations were not significant. however, the correlation between the sacrifice of veins and venous infarction was significant (p less than 0.025). because this potential complication may compromise the benefit of acute aneurysm surgery and cause damage, it is important to preserve the venous system and in some instances to select another surgical approach based on the pattern of venous drainage in the frontal lobe.
comparison of clinical and electrophysiologic features of preexcitation syndromes in patients presenting initially after age 50 years with those presenting at younger ages. although patients may develop arrhythmias due to preexcitation syndromes at any time from the prenatal period to late adulthood, presentation in late adulthood is considered uncommon and has not been well studied. from june 1981 to june 1989, 73 patients were documented to have preexcitation syndromes on the basis of electrophysiologic studies. those whose initial arrhythmias appeared at an age greater than 50 years (group 1, n = 13) were compared with the remaining 60 patients (group 2). all group 1 patients presented in the setting of acute medical or surgical diseases (n = 7), or chronic cardiac disease (n = 6) commonly associated with middle age and often with atrial arrhythmias; only 13 group 2 patients had underlying illnesses (p = 0.0001). almost two-thirds of group 2 patients were evaluated because of narrow complex orthodromic tachycardia or palpitations and electrocardiographic evidence of preexcitation. wide complex tachycardia was more often a reason for referral of older patients (7 of 13 vs 11 of 60, p less than 0.05), among whom atrial fibrillation/flutter also tended to be more frequent (4 of 13 vs 11 of 60, difference not significant). the pr and qrs intervals of group 1 patients were within the normal range and differed significantly from those of group 2 patients (pr, 0.15 +/- 0.04 vs 0.11 +/- 0.03 second, p less than 0.001; qrs, 0.09 +/- 0.01 vs 0.12 +/- 0.03 second, p less than 0.001), making electrocardiographic identification of preexcitation more difficult in group 1. several factors likely contributed.
etiologic importance of the intimal flap of the external carotid artery in the development of postcarotid endarterectomy stroke. a technically unsatisfactory end point (transition from the removed diseased plaque to normal distal intima) leading to an intimal flap of the external carotid artery has been identified as a source of perioperative stroke. the mechanism involves thrombus formation with retrograde propagation of the thrombus and subsequent embolization of the internal carotid artery. this report describes three cases illustrating this mechanism and methods of identification and correction. this mechanism of postoperative stroke adds further justification for the routine use of intraoperative surveillance studies to document the technical result of endarterectomy involving the internal and external carotid arteries. when an unsatisfactory end point is identified in the external carotid artery, it should be corrected with the same sense of concern as a similar finding in the internal carotid artery.
nsaid-induced gastrointestinal damage. a critical review of prophylaxis and therapy. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) cause acute diffuse injury to the gastroduodenal mucosa, and also cause chronic focal ulcers that may bleed or perforate without warning symptoms. acute and chronic lesions are distinct, are pathogenetically different, respond differently to drugs, and require different management strategies. the principal rationale for antiulcer therapy in nsaid users is to prevent or reduce potentially fatal outcomes; to date no evaluated drug meets this criterion for efficacy. antacids and h2-receptor antagonists, based on open uncontrolled studies, appear to heal both gastric and duodenal ulcers, and maintain them healed during continued nsaid use; larger gastric ulcers show delayed healing with conventional doses of h2-receptor antagonists during nsaid therapy. no such delay occurs with omeprazole therapy. the suggests that if nsaid-associated gastric ulcers are treated with h2-receptor antagonists, larger doses should be given for longer periods. in patients with no pre-existing ulcer disease, h2-receptor antagonists given prophylactically prevent duodenal but not gastric ulcers; sucralfate does the same. in individuals without peptic ulcer disease taking nsaids, misoprostol, given as prophylaxis, reduces the development of gastric ulcers; its beneficial effects on ulcer healing or symptoms during continued nsaid therapy, or its ability to prevent duodenal ulcers or ulcer complications, are not established. because of diarrhea, the 400 micrograms/day dosage is recommended, especially in the elderly.
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct: a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain. a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct. celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst. internal drainage was curative.
presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose. a one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine (200-300 mg/kg). the patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion. the child developed ventricular arrhythmias, seizures, metabolic disturbances, and severe pulmonary edema. she survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy: report of 82 cases. in our initial experience with 82 patients, laparoscopic cholecystectomy has shown numerous advantages over open cholecystectomy. both intraoperative blood loss and postoperative need for pain medication have been minimal. most patients were discharged within 24 to 36 hours and resumed normal activities within 3 to 5 days. the aesthetic aspect is also an obvious advantage, since the laparoscopic procedure avoids disfiguring abdominal scars. previous abdominal surgery is not a contraindication to attempting this procedure. based on our experience, laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be done safely on most patients who are candidates for open cholecystectomy, including the elderly, the obese, and those with acute gangrenous cholecystitis.
the value of nucleolar organizer regions in uveal melanoma. the collaborative ocular melanoma study group. silver staining of nucleolar organizer regions is an objective method for evaluating the malignancy of a variety of tumors. we studied 126 ciliochoroidal melanomas, three coincidental nevi that occurred in eyes with melanomas, and one magnocellular nevus collected from the collaborative ocular melanoma study to determine the effectiveness of the silver-stained nucleolar organizer region technique in assessing the malignant potential of these tumors. malignant lesions demonstrated higher mean silver-stained nucleolar organizer region counts (4.347) than benign nevi (1.855) (p less than or equal to .0001). among malignant melanomas, mixed-cell melanomas had slightly higher counts than spindle-cell melanomas (p less than or equal to .0001), but this difference was not important clinically. results were also compared to other histopathologic variables, which disclosed correlation of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions with mitoses and tumor size. comparison with computerized cytomorphometric analyses of prognosis also disclosed significant correlation. this technique may prove to be a useful adjunct in the assessment of malignancy and treatment response of uveal melanomas.
the changing face of dermatology out-patient referrals in the south-east of scotland. a study of out-patient dermatological services (nhs and private) in the south-east of scotland was carried out by medical staff in the department of dermatology in edinburgh during the month of november 1988. the aim was to assess changes in referral patterns and workload compared with the findings of an identical investigation undertaken in november 1981. of particular interest were the possible effects of recent publicity campaigns aimed at increasing public awareness about skin cancer. the medical complement of the dermatology department had changed minimally since 1981 and the population increase in the south-east of scotland over the same period was 1.5%. during november 1988 1592 new patients and 2037 review patients were seen. this represented an increase of 29.2% and 28.3%, respectively, since 1981. the most striking changes in diagnostic groups were a 173% rise in new cases presenting with benign tumours (excluding viral warts) and a 106% increase in new patients with malignant tumours. viral warts and eczema were, as in 1981, the second and third most common diagnostic categories amongst new patients. there was a 98% increase in the number of surgical procedures performed on new patients compared with 1981. we conclude that the substantial increase in numbers of both benign and malignant tumours and the consequent doubling in surgical treatments was due to increased public awareness and concern about skin cancer.
caseating hepatic granulomas in hodgkin's lymphoma. a 68-year-old man presented with recurrent hodgkin's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy. in addition to histological evidence of recurrent hodgkin's disease, the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas. cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for mycobacterium tuberculosis. no antituberculous treatment was administered, and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma. hodgkin's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver.
reliability of the clinical and electromyographic examination of tendon reflexes. the reliability of clinical examination of the tendon reflexes was examined by studying inter-observer agreement. twenty patients were examined by three neurologists. the briskness of the tendon reflexes in arms and legs was scored on a nine-point scale. in 28% of the 160 examined reflexes the observations disagreed 2 scale units or more. disagreement on the presence of asymmetry occurred in 45% of the 80 reflex pairs. in 15% one observer judged a reflex pair to be symmetrical while another observer found asymmetry of at least 2 scale units. in a second experiment clinical observation of apparently asymmetrical quadriceps reflexes was compared with measurement by surface electromyography. a significant, semi-logarithmic relationship was found between clinical scores and measured reflex amplitudes. measured reflex asymmetry always agreed with clinical asymmetry, and the magnitudes of right-left amplitude differences were correlated with the magnitude of clinically observed asymmetry. the bedside examination of tendon reflexes is subject to considerable inter-observer disagreement.
stress and sudden death. the case of the long qt syndrome. the idiopathic long qt syndrome (lqts) represents a unique clinical example of stress-related sudden cardiac death. lqts is characterized by the association of several distinctive electrocardiographic features, among which prolongation of the qt interval is the best known, with life-threatening arrhythmias that usually occur under conditions of physical or psychological stress. effective therapies exist and are represented by antiadrenergic interventions; beta-adrenergic-blocking agents are the treatment of choice. when they fail, left cardiac sympathetic denervation has also proven to be very effective. the latter result suggests a role for alpha-adrenergic mechanisms in the arrhythmias of lqts. the stressors more frequently associated with syncopal events in lqts patients include fear, exercise fraught with emotions, swimming, and awakening because of a loud noise. experimentally, life threatening arrhythmias have been induced during a highly emotional situation in conscious cats with normal hearts in which right stellate ganglia have been ablated, resulting in qt interval prolongation. this selective denervation creates a sympathetic imbalance of the type proposed by one of the pathogenetic hypotheses for lqts.
are ioxaglate and iopamidol equally safe and well tolerated in cardiac angiography? a randomized, double-blind clinical study. a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study was performed in 50 patients undergoing left ventriculography and coronary arteriography to evaluate ecg changes and the effects on left ventricular function of a low-osmolar ionic contrast agent, ioxaglate, as compared with a low-osmolar nonionic contrast medium, iopamidol. twenty-five patients received ioxaglate (group 1) and 25 patients received iopamidol (group 2). all patients underwent 48 hours of continuous ecg recording beginning 24 hours before the cardiac catheterization. left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressure, peak positive dp/dt, and dp/dt/p ratio were measured immediately before and after left ventriculography and 3 minutes later. left ventricular systolic pressure did not change after injection of either contrast medium. left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased by 30% in group 1 (p less than 0.01) and by 22% in group 2 (p less than 0.01) immediately after left ventriculography. a further increase by 45% in group 1 (p less than 0.01) and by 24% in group 2 (p less than 0.01) was observed 3 minutes later. no differences were observed between values obtained in the two groups. peak positive dp/dt did not change immediately after injection of either contrast medium but decreased by 5% (not significant) in group 1 and by 7% (p less than 0.02) in group 2 three minutes after left ventriculography. there were no significant differences between the two groups. analysis of continuous 48-hour ecgs showed that both ioxaglate and iopamidol induced a slight increase (by 8% and 7%, respectively; p less than 0.05) in heart rate during injection with early and complete recovery.
ovarian metastases are rare in stage i adenocarcinoma of the cervix. over a 32-year period at the university of california, los angeles medical center, all cases of adenocarcinoma and adenosquamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix were reviewed to determine the incidence of ovarian metastases in stage i disease. one of 25 patients (4.0%) who underwent an exploratory laparotomy and radical hysterectomy had a microscopic ovarian metastasis. a literature review identified nine additional patients who had ovarian metastases and stage i adenocarcinoma of the cervix. including our series, the overall reported rate of ovarian metastases is 1.8%. all ten patients had at least one of the following additional characteristics: they were postmenopausal, they had adnexal pathology, or they had positive pelvic lymph nodes. thus, ovarian preservation is warranted in premenopausal patients who do not have ovarian pathology or evidence of other metastatic disease at surgery. bilateral oophorectomy may be performed if frozen-section examination of enlarged or suspicious nodes documents metastases. if the ovaries are left in the pelvis at the completion of the surgical procedure and microscopic spread to other pelvic tissues is documented, pelvic irradiation can be administered.
ventilatory function as a predictor of fatal stroke. objective--to investigate the relation between ventilatory function and subsequent mortality due to cerebrovascular disease. design--prospective longitudinal study. subjects--a total of 18,403 male civil servants aged 40-64 years at entry examination for the whitehall study. main outcome measure--mortality from cerebrovascular disease (icd8 430-438) after 18 years of follow up. results--in all, 262 men with sinus rhythm at entry died due to stroke during the 18 years of follow up. compared with men with a forced expiratory volume in one second of greater than or equal to 3.5 litres those with a value of less than 3.0 litres were almost twice as likely to die of cerebrovascular disease (rate ratio adjusted for age and systolic blood pressure = 1.88, 95% confidence interval 1.32 to 2.69). this increased risk occurred within each tertile of systolic blood pressure. nested case-control analyses were used to control precisely for confounding effects of age, height, and smoking (by matching) and employment grade and physiological risk factors (by modelling). the effect of forced expiratory volume in one second was independent of age, height, smoking habits, employment grade, blood pressure, weight, cholesterol concentration, glucose tolerance, electrocardiographic abnormalities, history of chest pain, and history of intermittent claudication. conclusions--measurements of ventilatory function may assist clinical decisions about whether to treat mild hypertension. impaired ventilatory function and stroke may share common causes.
percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections. operative drainage is the cornerstone of therapy for pancreatic abscess. recently it has been suggested that successful percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections may serve as definitive therapy. we undertook therapeutic, computed tomography-directed percutaneous drainage in a selected group of 29 patients with infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections. twenty-three patients (79%) were successfully treated with percutaneous drainage. of six patients (21%) representing failures of percutaneous drainage, four died and two recovered after operative drainage. the four patients who died had a mean apache (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) ii score of 23 and five of ranson's prognostic signs. ranson's signs and apache ii scores were predictive of success and mortality. we conclude that in selected patients, infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections can be treated definitively with therapeutic percutaneous catheter drainage. based on this experience, recommendations regarding patient selection are included.
temporal lobectomy and independent bitemporal interictal activity: what degree of lateralization is sufficient? we attempted to determine whether the degree of lateralization of independent bitemporal interictal spikes and sharp waves (issw) is correlated with good results after temporal lobectomy. three observers independently counted issw in the scalp eegs of 59 candidates for temporal lobectomy to determine the degree of lateralization of issw. interobserver correlation in percentage of lateralization was excellent (r = 0.92). thirty-one candidates were also evaluated with depth eeg (deeg). operative success was graded by the number of seizures reported in the second postoperative year. there was a significant progressive decrease in the number of good operative results as the degree of lateralization of issw lessened (p = 0.0142). ninety-two percent of patients with greater than 90% lateralization had a good surgical outcome, whereas only 50% with less than 90% lateralization had a good outcome. even when all deeg-recorded seizures emerged from the side of the lobectomy, patients with greater than 90% lateralization appeared to have better outcomes than patients with less than 90% lateralization. we conclude that greater than 90% lateralization of temporal issw is associated with good surgical outcome, and deeg may not be necessary in these patients. less than 90% lateralization is associated with poor surgical outcome and the additional information provided by deeg may be especially useful in such patients.
reduction in bleeding after heart-lung transplantation. the importance of posterior mediastinal hemostasis. to reduce perioperative hemorrhage following heart-lung transplantation, several technical modifications were introduced in june 1988 to secure better posterior mediastinal hemostasis. the intraoperative and postoperative use of blood and blood products, as well as the chest tube drainage in the first 24 hours postoperatively, were compared in the seven patients operated on since june 1988 with the nine patients operated on before that date. significant (p less than 0.05) reductions were demonstrated in the intraoperative and postoperative transfusion of packed cells, in the postoperative administration of fresh frozen plasma, and in the chest tube drainage within the first 24 hours postoperatively. the one-month and total hospital mortality rates were 6 percent and 12.5 percent, respectively. it is concluded that newer techniques to obtain optimal posterior mediastinal hemostasis have significantly reduced blood loss following heart-lung transplantation in our experience and have contributed to our excellent early postoperative results.
us-assisted aspiration thrombectomy: in vitro investigations. the authors describe the use of a new ultrasound (us)-aspiration thrombectomy technique. an oscillating us probe was inserted into a thin-walled, large-bore aspiration catheter. experiments tested the ability of the new device and other catheter combinations to remove clot material from a petri dish, as well as from small and large vessel models made of silicone and glass tubes, respectively. results of the experiments demonstrated that an oscillating 1.0-mm us probe inserted into an aspiration catheter (7-9 f in diameter) promoted clot fragmentation and allowed continuous aspiration of thrombi of any size. when compared with simple large-bore catheter aspiration and with mechanical fragmentation by means of a us probe within a catheter that was flushed to cool the probe, us-assisted aspiration thrombectomy demonstrated significantly better results for percutaneous transcatheter removal of fresh thrombi.
manometric evaluation of jejunal limb after total gastrectomy and roux-orr anastomosis for gastric cancer. total gastrectomy with roux-orr anastomosis is frequently performed for gastric cancer. since intestinal motility of the roux limb has never been evaluated after this operation, pressure activity was investigated in the roux limb of ten patients (aged 51-77 years) who had undergone total gastrectomy and roux-orr reconstruction. investigations were carried out during a 6-h fast and 3 h after a 605 kcal mixed meal. during fasting only two patients had activity fronts and these were abnormal. all ten patients displayed non-propagating bursts of contractions and three had discrete clustered contractions and high amplitude jejunal contractions. the fed state was characterized by a severely reduced motor activity pattern and other abnormalities. total gastrectomy with roux-orr anastomoses provokes a relatively severe disturbance in intestinal activity.
gastrointestinal side-effects of octreotide during long-term treatment of acromegaly. gastrointestinal side-effects of prolonged therapy (greater than 2 yr) with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide were studied in 10 acromegalic patients. after 2 yr of therapy, 6 of 10 patients had newly developed gallstones, complicated by cholangitis and jaundice in 1. serum vitamin b-12 concentrations declined in all 10 patients [from 380 +/- 32 to 172 +/- 21 pmol/l (mean +/- se); p = 0.023] and became abnormally low in 4. gastric biopsy specimens, obtained during gastroscopy (9 patients), showed moderate to severe active gastritis, with damage to the superficial and deeper layers of the mucosa in 9 of 9 and focal atrophy in 7 of 9 patients. campylobacter pylori was found in the antral mucosa in 8 of 9 patients. although information is lacking on similar studies in untreated acromegalic patients, we suggest that patients receiving chronic octreotide therapy be closely monitored for these and possible other side-effects related to gastrointestinal actions of octreotide.
concealed entrainment as a guide for catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in patients with prior myocardial infarction. fifteen consecutive patients with drug-refractory, recurrent, sustained, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and a history of remote myocardial infarction underwent catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia. shocks of 100 to 300 j were delivered to sites at which pacing during ventricular tachycardia resulted in concealed entrainment, in which the ventricular tachycardia accelerated to the pacing rate, there was a long stimulus to qrs interval and there was no change in the configuration of the qrs complex during pacing at several rates compared with the configuration during ventricular tachycardia, thus identifying a zone of slow conduction in the reentrant circuit. concealed entrainment was demonstrated in nine (60%) of 15 patients, and the stimulus to qrs intervals were 90 to 400 ms. at sites of concealed entrainment, the endocardial activation time relative to the qrs complex during ventricular tachycardia ranged from -125 to +50 ms, the timing of the local electrogram relative to the qrs complex was the same during entrainment as during ventricular tachycardia and the pace map during sinus rhythm was discordant with that of the ventricular tachycardia in seven patients. in the six patients in whom a site of concealed entrainment could not be identified, the target site for ablation was selected on the basis of identification of an isolated mid-diastolic potential, activation mapping and pace mapping. the mean (+/- sd) cumulative number of joules delivered to the target site was 306 +/- 140. a successful long-term clinical outcome was achieved in 9 of the 15 patients (mean follow-up 20 +/- 7 months). the clinical success rate was the same whether the target site was selected on the basis of concealed entrainment (five of nine, 56%) or on the basis of the other mapping techniques (four of six, 67%). in conclusion, the responses to pacing suggest that sites at which there is concealed entrainment may be located within a zone of slow conduction in the ventricular tachycardia reentry circuit, although not necessarily in an area critical for the maintenance of reentry. the long-term clinical efficacy of catheter ablation targeted to sites of concealed entrainment is about 60%, similar to the results achieved when conventional mapping techniques are used.
surgical treatment of renal artery stenosis after failed percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. from 1980 to 1989, 53 patients with renovascular hypertension underwent surgical treatment after initial unsuccessful management with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. renal artery stenosis was due to fibrous dysplasia in 17 patients and atherosclerosis in 36. the reasons for failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty were inability to dilate the stenotic lesion (32 patients), acute renal arterial occlusion (2) or dissection (8) from attempted percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and the development of recurrent renal artery stenosis after initially successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (11). three patients underwent nephrectomy due to the finding of a nonviable kidney at operation. successful surgical revascularization was achieved in 50 patients. there was no significant fibrosis or inflammation around the previously dilated renal artery. percutaneous transluminal angioplasty necessitated performance of a more complicated revascularization operation in only 1 patient. if the kidney is viable at operation in patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty renovascular reconstruction is not more technically difficult than when done primarily and the same excellent results can be achieved.
relationship of drusen and abnormalities of the retinal pigment epithelium to the prognosis of neovascular macular degeneration. the macular photocoagulation study group. we graded macular features of 127 fellow eyes of participants in the macular photocoagulation study who had an extrafoveal choroidal neovascular membrane secondary to age-related macular degeneration in the first eye and no initial evidence of the neovascular form of age-related macular degeneration in the fellow eye. our aims were to determine the relationship of drusen characteristics and retinal pigment epithelial abnormalities to the risk of subsequent development of neovascularization in the fellow eye and the risk of subsequent development of recurrent neovascular membranes after photocoagulation in the first eye. regression analysis demonstrated that the presence of large drusen and focal hyperpigmentation of the retinal pigment epithelium were independent risk factors for the subsequent development of neovascularization in the fellow eye (relative risk, 2.4 and 2.5, respectively). only 10% of eyes with no large drusen or any retinal pigment epithelial hyperpigmentation compared with 58% of eyes with both large drusen and retinal pigment epithelial hyperpigmentation developed neovascularization in the fellow eye within 5 years. using multivariate cox regression analysis, we noted that the risk of developing recurrent neovascular membranes in the first eye was significantly increased when large drusen (relative risk, 2.8) were noted in the fellow eye at the time of laser treatment in the first eye. fundus features in the fellow eye appear to help identify patients at high risk of developing visual loss from recurrent neovascular membranes following laser treatment in the first eye and from development of a neovascular membrane in the fellow eye.
putative mechanism of blood pressure reduction induced by increases in dietary calcium intake. an increase in dietary calcium intake lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in some patients with arterial hypertension. the mechanisms by which this decrease come about are not clear. a membrane-stabilizing effect wrought by an increase in extracellular calcium would appear unlikely, since the increases in extracellular calcium concentration with increased dietary intake are minimal. calcium regulatory hormones may be the mediators, and a cybernetic framework has been suggested. striking defects have been reported in the calcium handling and hormonal household of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. however, a clear cut relationship in terms of a hormonal "template" has not yet been identified in prospective experiments. data have been presented to show that increased calcium intake has a direct effect on regulatory areas in the brain. however, the mechanisms by which such a response would be mediated are entirely unknown. increased calcium intake may induce natriuresis. it has been suggested that increased calcium intake helps the "salt sensitive"; however, prospective studies to this effect have not been presented. increased calcium intake may induce phosphaturia. however, the evidence that blood pressure lowering effects are mediated by phosphate depletion are unconvincing. some evidence suggests that increased calcium intake may influence local regulatory processes which in turn influences cell integrity and growth. at this point, a unifying hypothesis is not available. however, the clues to various possibilities are intriguing.
adjunctive use of beta-adrenergic blockers, calcium antagonists and other therapies in coronary thrombolysis. the availability of thrombolytic agents for use in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction is an important step in the management of a common, often debilitating, and potentially lethal disorder. however, despite the proven benefits of coronary thrombolysis, the importance of adjunctive treatment modalities is being increasingly recognized. beta-adrenergic blockers, calcium antagonists, nitrates, magnesium, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors each exert favorable cardiovascular properties that may offer additional benefits. clinical trials combining thrombolytic and adjunctive pharmacologic agents offer hope for further advances in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction.
right parietal stroke with gerstmann's syndrome. appearance on computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single-photon emission computed tomography. we examined a patient who exhibited gerstmann's syndrome (left-right disorientation, finger agnosia, dyscalculia, and dysgraphia) in association with a perioperative stroke in the right parietal lobe. this is the first description of the gerstmann tetrad occurring in the setting of discrete right hemisphere pathologic findings. a well-localized vascular lesion was demonstrated by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single-photon emission computed tomographic studies. the patient had clinical evidence of reversed functional cerebral dominance and radiologic evidence of reversed anatomic cerebral asymmetries.
rett syndrome and the autistic disorders. rett syndrome is a disorder noted to date only in females and characterized by a pervasive developmental disability following apparently normal early infancy. in addition to gait difficulties, stereotypic hand movements, and loss of communication and purposeful hand skills, autistic-like behavior is an early sign that often results in misdiagnosis. despite these significant clinical abnormalities, neuropathologic features are modest, and no consistent laboratory abnormality or diagnostic marker has been identified. the current status of research in rs is considered within the context of autism and other disorders in which autistic features may occur, such as the fragile x syndrome. the concept of autism as neurobiologically based behavior is developed. as such, autism is regarded as an umbrella category containing an ever-expanding list of specific disorders.
altered pattern of calcium kinetics in hemodialysis patients after parathyroidectomy. six hd patients with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism (shpt) underwent studies of calcium kinetics prior to and after parathyroidectomy (ptx) with autotransplantation. postoperatively, patients received vitamin d and calcium supplementation. before ptx, a markedly elevated bone turnover was found, with increased fluxes of calcium from plasma into the exchangeable calcium pool. this pool was three times larger than normal, indicating a high risk of extraosseous calcifications. despite a marked fall in parathyroid hormone (ipth) levels after ptx, bone cell activity was maintained, as indicated by elevated values for ca retention. although ca efflux from plasma into other compartments of the exchangeable pools remained above normal, the size of the total exchangeable calcium pool markedly decreased after ptx, indicating that ptx with autotransplantation, followed by vitamin d therapy, can normalize bone turnover and shift the balance of calcium flux towards mineralized bone. reduction in the exchangeable calcium pool may explain the clinical finding that extraosseous calcifications regress in some patients after ptx.
silent ischemia after coronary angioplasty: evaluation of restenosis and extent of ischemia in asymptomatic patients by tomographic thallium-201 exercise imaging and comparison with symptomatic patients. one hundred sixteen patients were evaluated to determine the ability of single photon emission computed tomographic (spect) thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging to detect silent ischemia secondary to restenosis in asymptomatic patients after single and multiple vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and the findings were compared with spect imaging detection of restenosis in symptomatic patients. the value of exercise electrocardiography (ecg) and the amount of ischemic myocardium in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were determined. forty-one patients were asymptomatic after angioplasty; 77% of these had chest pain before angioplasty. seventy-five patients had chest pain after angioplasty; 99% of these had chest pain before angioplasty. restenosis occurred in 61% of asymptomatic and 59% of symptomatic patients and in 46% of the vessels in both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients. sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for detection of restenosis by spect in individual patients were 96%, 75% and 88% versus 91%, 77% and 85%, respectively, in the asymptomatic versus symptomatic groups (p = ns). sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for restenosis detection in individual vessels were 90%, 89% and 89% versus 84%, 77% and 84%, respectively, in the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups (p = ns), with similar results for the three major arteries. sensitivity and accuracy of exercise ecg were significantly less than those of spect imaging for the patients with silent (40% and 44%) and symptomatic (59% and 64%) ischemia (p less than 0.001). restenosis of vessels in the patients with silent and symptomatic ischemia was associated with an equal amount and degree of severity of ischemic myocardium in the two groups.
intravenous administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor causes a cutaneous eruption the intravenous administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor to three patients with leukemia who were receiving marrow aplasia-inducing chemotherapy resulted in the development of wide-spread erythematous macules and papules. the course of the eruption paralleled the time of infusion of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. skin biopsy specimens taken from two of the eruptions displayed characteristic changes consisting of a variable mixture of granulocytes and lymphocytes, increased number and size of dermal macrophages, mild to moderate epidermal exocytosis, intercellular edema, and rare dyskeratotic keratinocytes. immunophenotypic analysis of one specimen was notable for keratinocyte intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression. administration of the recombinant human cytokine in pharmacologic doses is postulated to induce changes in the immunologic status of the skin, resulting in the expression of a cutaneous eruption.
stiff-man syndrome: a gabaergic autoimmune disorder with autoantigenic heterogeneity. autoantibodies that reacted with cell bodies and axon terminals of gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba)ergic neurons were present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with stiff-man syndrome with type i diabetes. immunoblot experiments using this patient's serum and cerebrospinal fluid did not corroborate an earlier observation that these autoantibodies are directed against the gabaergic cytosolic enzyme, l-glutamic acid decarboxylase. while l-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies may be associated with this syndrome, they do not appear to be easily demonstrated.
experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989: determinant factors of long-term patency. from 1981 to 1989, 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed. indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia (n = 335, 93%), popliteal aneurysm (n = 15, 4%), and claudication (n = 11, 3%). outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 (32%) and tibial artery in 245 (68%) of bypasses. at 6 years primary patency was 63% and secondary patency was 81%. during the performance of the in situ bypass procedure, 86 (24%) venous conduits were modified because of a technical failure (n = 49, 13%) or an inadequate vein segment (n = 37, 10%). secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses requiring modification was 72% compared to 84% for bypasses not modified (p less than 0.05). atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating endarterectomy, patch angioplasty, or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 years (69%) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction (46%, p less than 0.02). in the follow-up period, 95 (26%) bypasses were revised because of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure. bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year secondary patency of 68% compared to 88% for bypasses not revised (p less than 0.02). the first 179 cases (1981 to 1985) were compared to the subsequent 182 cases (1986 to 1989). the secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half (92%) compared to the first half (80%) of the experience was significantly improved (p less than 0.02). the secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was significantly improved (p less than 0.02) for the latter half (n = 142, 97%) compared to the first half (n = 124, 83%) of the series. long-term patency with the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience, quality of the venous conduit, and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that necessitates reconstruction. meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass surveillance results in superior long-term patency.
role of the protease-antiprotease balance in peritoneal exudate during acute pancreatitis. the peritoneal exudate formed during experimental pancreatitis is toxic when administered intraperitoneally or intravenously to other animals. overwhelming of the peritoneal antiprotease defences by proteolytic enzymes released from the pancreas may be a key factor responsible for this toxicity and is examined in the current study. human pancreatitis exudates possessed tryptic amidase activity indicating trypsinogen activation. the trypsin inhibitory capacities of exudates were reduced indicating a degree of consumption of the peritoneal antiproteases. of 21 exudates examined, three showed marked reduction of their trypsin inhibitory capacity indicating almost complete consumption of their antiproteases. all three patients were shocked at the time of sampling, two dying of fulminant pancreatitis within 24 h. overwhelming of the peritoneal antiproteases was not confirmed, but may occur in a few instances where proteolytic enzyme release or zymogen activation continues. intraperitoneal administration of exogenous antiproteases prolongs survival in rats with pancreatitis and has been suggested as a therapy in man. the current data suggests that few patients are likely to benefit from such an approach.
assessment of dilation methods in achalasia: large diameter mercury bougienage followed by pneumatic dilation as needed. in a retrospective study, 33 achalasia patients were treated with dilation therapy using large diameter mercury bougienage (mean, 56 french) and/or pneumatic balloon dilation. mean follow-up time was 35 months. mercury bougienage, performed in 20 patients, was successful in 10 (50%) with no complications. pneumatic dilation was performed as initial therapy or in those having failed previous pharmacologic therapy and/or bougienage. a successful response was achieved in 19 of 23 patients (83%), with a 3.2% complication rate. in addition, in four patients with eventual recurrence of symptoms after initial pneumatic dilation, bougienage was used as a successful alternative to repeat pneumatic treatment. the combined efficacy of both forms of dilation was 88% with a complication rate of 1.4%. these data indicate that mercury bougienage should be considered initial therapy for achalasia in view of its simplicity, safety, and acceptable efficacy, followed by pneumatic dilation if bougienage is unsuccessful. bougienage also may be considered if eventual recurrent symptoms develop after initially successful pneumatic dilation. surgery should be utilized only if dilation therapy fails to achieve a satisfactory response.
an unusual epidural, vascular spinal lipoma in a 3-year-old child: a case report and review of the literature. epidural lipomas are usually benign tumors affecting the spinal cord. we report the unusual presentation of a cervicothoracic spinal lipoma associated with a cervical dysraphism in a young boy. diagnostic options using magnetic resonance imaging and gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid are discussed as a pathway to early diagnosis of these and other occult spinal lesions.
quantitative assessment of ultrasonic myocardial reflectivity in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy the purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between acoustic properties of the myocardium and magnitude of left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. an on-line radio frequency analysis system was used to obtain quantitative operator-independent measurements of the integrated backscatter signal of the ventricular septum and posterior free wall in 25 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 25 normal age-matched control subjects. the integrated values of the radio frequency signal were normalized for the pericardial interface and expressed in percent. tissue reflectivity was significantly increased in the hypertrophied ventricular septum, as well as in the nonhypertrophied posterior free wall, in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (58 +/- 15% and 37 +/- 12%, respectively) compared with values in normal subjects (33 +/- 10% and 18 +/- 5%, respectively; p less than 0.001). furthermore, measurements of reflectivity of the septum or posterior free wall, or both, were beyond 2 sd of normal values in greater than 90% of the patients and were also abnormal in each of the five study patients who had only mild and localized left ventricular hypertrophy. no correlation was identified between myocardial tissue reflectivity and left ventricular wall thickness in the patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (correlation coefficient r = 0.4; p = ns). these findings demonstrate that myocardial reflectivity is abnormal in most patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and is largely independent of the magnitude of left ventricular hypertrophy. moreover, quantitative analysis of ultrasonic reflectivity can differentiate patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy from normal subjects independently of clinical features and conventional echocardiographic measurements.
significance of discordant st alternans in ventricular fibrillation. with the use of epicardial mapping, we investigated the electrical alternans of the st segment during acute myocardial ischemia and studied the difference in st alternans between dogs with resultant ventricular fibrillation and those without it. during the 7-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery below its first diagonal branch, 60 epicardial unipolar electrograms were recorded simultaneously at 1-minute intervals by a computerized mapping system. st alternans was found in the eight dogs we observed. the amplitude of st alternans (difference in the st segment elevation of two consecutive electrograms) was greater in dogs with ventricular fibrillation (n = 4) than in those without it (n = 4) (3.92 +/- 1.24 versus 0.58 +/- 0.49 mv, p less than 0.05). three of the four dogs with ventricular fibrillation demonstrated discordant st alternans (i.e., adjacent leads were out of phase). results from the present study indicate that an increased amplitude and discordance of st alternans during acute myocardial ischemia are related to ventricular fibrillation and act as indicators of time and spatial unevenness of ventricular repolarization.
future needs for ercp: incidence of conditions leading to bile duct obstruction and requirements for diagnostic and therapeutic biliary procedures. although the development of endoscopic methods of treatment for biliary obstruction has proceeded rapidly in recent years, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic (ercp) services are patchily distributed. a recent survey by the british society of gastroenterology has shown that almost half the district general hospitals questioned did not have a sphincterotomy service available locally. to assess the level of provision required, two investigations have been undertaken. firstly, an epidemiological study of bile duct obstruction has been carried out in the south western region. secondly, the actual surgical and endoscopic workload in treating obstructive jaundice has been analysed in two health districts. using present incidence and treatment rates at least 50 ercps per 100,000 of the population per year are estimated to be required in the future. surgical treatment rates can be expected to fall as the number of therapeutic ercps increases. the implications of this estimate in equipment and staffing terms are discussed.
selective catheterization of the inferior petrosal sinuses: new catheter design. catheters for selective catheterization of the right and left inferior petrosal sinuses have been developed to replace the complex tip-deflector catheter-guide-wire system currently used. the new catheters are easily formed from commonly available straight catheters with the use of steam. they have been successfully tested in 22 patients; the only complications were minor groin hematomas.
diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma by means of recombinant epstein-barr virus proteins. the immune response of patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma to epstein-barr virus (ebv) antigens is diagnostic of the tumour. existing tests use ebv antigens produced in ebv-infected lymphoblastoid cells, but the virus replicates poorly in these cells. serum samples from 18 patients diagnosed as having nasopharyngeal carcinoma were screened by western blot analysis, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa), and immunofluorescence tests for antibodies to the ebv-coded alkaline deoxyribonuclease (dnase), thymidine kinase, and membrane antigen (gp340/220) produced in recombinant baculovirus or bovine papillomavirus systems. each protein was a useful diagnostic marker for nasopharyngeal carcinoma, although in the gp340/220 elisas there was substantial overlap for both igg and iga antibodies between serum samples from nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients and those from healthy donors seropositive for ebv. the ebv thymidine kinase was the most sensitive predictor of nasopharyngeal carcinoma; all such samples showed both igg and iga antibody responses to this protein and all gave clearly distinct titres from those of the ebv-seropositive donors in the iga test. each of the recombinant systems described is suitable for use in large-scale screening programmes for the early diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
family cancer syndrome: a study of the kindred of a man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible. several familial cancer syndromes have been identified. the syndrome of sarcomas, breast cancer and other neoplasms, known as li-fraumeni syndrome, is characterized by several different neoplasms presenting at young ages with autosomal dominant transmission and a high incidence of second primaries. in this paper, we studied six generations (51 people) of the family of a 24-year-old man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible. twelve malignancies in 11 people, including several rare tumors, were revealed. mean age of presentation was 24 years old. nine of the 11 patients died of disease. one developed a second primary. two tumors presented in the head and neck. transmission was autosomal dominant. the karyotypes of two family members were normal. identification of li-fraumeni syndrome in a family is important in determining appropriate follow-up for the patient and family. such families are models for studying carcinogenesis.
colon carcinoma associated with ureterosigmoidostomy. a patient developing a colonic adenoma 38 years following ureterosigmoidostomy is presented. the mechanisms of neoplastic transformation associated with ureterosigmoidostomy is now better understood. this knowledge is being applied to develop modifications both of the surgical technique and the management of patients with this form of urinary diversion, and is a subject of discussion.
ultrasonography in patients with suspected acute appendicitis: a prospective study. the diagnostic accuracy of high-resolution real-time ultrasonography was prospectively studied in 240 patients admitted to the hospital with suspected acute appendicitis. the criteria for ultrasound diagnosis of appendicitis included a sausage-shaped, aperistaltic, hypoechoic structure when imaged along its longitudinal axis, with a target-like appearance on transverse section. the ultrasonographic findings were correlated with surgical-pathological outcome in 82 cases with proven appendicitis, with laparotomy findings in another 21 patients and with clinical follow-up in the remainder. the overall sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis were 78%, 92% and 87%, respectively. the positive predictive value was 84% and the negative predictive value was 88%. ultrasonography may significantly improve the diagnostic accuracy in patients with suspected acute appendicitis and should be performed in all patients in whom the clinical diagnosis is equivocal. the ultrasonographic findings must be interpreted in light of the clinical findings.
adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung. two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma. no other known precipitants were evident. the adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors. tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases.
detection of colorectal liver metastases using intraoperative ultrasonography. intraoperative ultrasonography of the liver has been carried out in 99 patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. palpation of the liver, preoperative abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography scanning were also performed in all patients. metastases were identified in 26 of the 99 patients (26 per cent). intraoperative ultrasonography diagnosed more metastases than palpation, abdominal ultrasonography or ct scanning, identifying metastases in 24 of the 26 patients, including six patients in whom the metastases were not detected by any other technique. identification and localization of impalpable liver metastases is therefore possible using intraoperative ultrasonography.
proximal posterior cerebral artery occlusion simulating middle cerebral artery occlusion. we describe 12 cases of acute stroke in which clinical features of proximal posterior cerebral artery occlusion simulated the clinical syndrome of middle cerebral artery occlusion. the majority of patients developed contralateral hemiparesis, homonymous hemianopia, hemispatial neglect, and sensory loss or sensory inattention. all 8 patients with dominant hemisphere lesions were aphasic. accurate diagnosis in each case was achieved only after a head ct, showing occipital lobe, thalamic, and inferomesial temporal lobe infarction. "cortical" signs are probably explained by thalamic involvement. recognition of this syndrome has implications for management and prognosis.
expression of the human papillomavirus e7 oncogene during cell transformation is sufficient to induce susceptibility to lysis by activated macrophages. human papillomaviruses (hpv), and in particular hpv type 16, are etiologic agents in the development of cervical cancer, which is the second most common form of cancer in women worldwide. mammalian cells are susceptible to transformation in vitro by the e6 and e7 oncogenes derived from the hpv-16 genome. nih-3t3 cells transfected with the hpv-16 e7 oncogene were found to exhibit cytolytic susceptibility to murine-activated macrophages. in comparison, e6 oncogene-expressing cells were not susceptible to lysis by activated macrophages. the e7 oncoprotein is multifunctional, being capable of complexing with the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene (anti-oncogene) product, stimulating dna synthesis, and causing cell transformation in vitro. macrophage killing assays performed on cell lines expressing e7 mutants revealed that the ability to complex the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene product and stimulate dna synthesis did not induce susceptibility to activated macrophages, whereas the ability of e7 to cause transformation was required to induce susceptibility to activated macrophages. these data suggest that cell transformation is a more important prerequisite for inducing susceptibility to activated macrophages than is the loss of tumor suppressor gene function. this study also provides an initial link between hpv-16 oncogene expression and the ability of activated macrophages to selectively recognize and destroy hpv-16-associated neoplastic cells.
a comparison between single and double dose intravenous timentin for the prophylaxis of wound infection in elective colorectal surgery. a prospective, randomized, single-blind, controlled clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether two doses of systemic timentin provided superior prophylaxis against postoperative sepsis in elective colorectal surgery compared with a single dose of the same antibiotic. timentin, a combination of ticarcillin and clavulanic acid was administered intravenously (3.1 g) at the commencement of operation to all patients, and this was repeated after 2 hours in those patients randomized to receive a second dose. the wound infection rate was 11 percent in the 143 patients completing follow-up and receiving a single dose, and 13 percent in the 128 patients receiving two doses of timentin (p greater than 0.05). the rates of postoperative septicemia 3 vs. 4 percent and intra-abdominal abscess 5 vs. 8 percent were similar. multivariate analysis of the factors likely to affect postoperative would infection rate demonstrated an association with the type of hospital, public or private, wound infection rate 16 and 6 percent, respectively (p less than 0.01), and the surgeon group defined by the number of patients contributed greater than 25 or less than 25, wound infection rate 6 and 18 percent, respectively (p less than 0.05). we concluded that a single dose of intravenous timentin was as effective as two doses for prophylaxis against surgical infection and that the surgeon group and the hospital in which the operation took place were statistically significant predictors of postoperative wound infection.
balloon angioplasty of stenosed blalock-taussig anastomosis: role of balloon-on-a-wire in dilating occluded shunts. six children with cyanotic congenital heart defects, aged 6 to 60 months, underwent percutaneous balloon angioplasty of a narrowed blalock-taussig (bt) shunt to improve arterial oxygen saturation. the indication for angioplasty was a cyanotic heart defect not amenable to total surgical correction, either because of the age and size at presentation or because of anatomic complexity, but at the same time requiring palliation of pulmonary oligemia. following balloon angioplasty, there was an increase in arterial oxygen saturation from 71 +/- 8% to 81 +/- 6% (p less than 0.05). in one child with long segment narrowing, there was no significant improvement in oxygen saturation, and this child underwent an additional bt shunt on the contralateral side. on follow-up 3 to 12 months after balloon angioplasty, the oxygen saturations remained improved (78 +/- 10%) in the remaining five patients. in two children with either complete or almost complete blockage of the bt shunt, we were unable to advance any catheter across the shunt but we were able to advance a 2 or 3 mm balloon on a wire and dilate the shunt, followed by introduction of a catheter carrying a larger balloon for angioplasty. this has permitted us to obtain the pulmonary artery pressure directly (this information was of obvious value in patient management) and resulted in an improvement in the arterial oxygen saturation. it is concluded that (1) balloon angioplasty of narrowed bt shunts is feasible, effective, and safe and (2) even completely occluded shunts can be cannulated and the balloon dilated with the newly available balloon-on-wire devices.
non-vesicular release of glutamate from glial cells by reversed electrogenic glutamate uptake. glutamate uptake into nerve and glial cells usually functions to keep the extracellular glutamate concentration low in the central nervous system. but one component of glutamate release from neurons is calcium-independent, suggesting a non-vesicular release that may be due to a reversal of glutamate uptake. the activity of the electrogenic glutamate uptake carrier can be monitored by measuring the membrane current it produces, and uptake is activated by intracellular potassium ions. here we report that raising the potassium concentration around glial cells evokes an outward current component produced by reversed glutamate uptake. this current is activated by intracellular glutamate and sodium, inhibited by extracellular glutamate and sodium, and increased by membrane depolarization. these results demonstrate a non-vesicular mechanism for the release of glutamate from glial cells and neurons. this mechanism may contribute to the neurotoxic rise in extracellular glutamate concentration during brain anoxia.
schatzki's ring: long-term results following dilation the purpose of this study is to report long-term results of 61 patients with schatzki's ring who were dilated for relief of dysphagia. the severity of schatzki's ring was mild in 28 patients (46%), moderate in 26 (43%), severe in 5 (8%), and indeterminate in 2 (3%). follow-up information was available in 56 of 61 patients (mean, 75 months). during follow-up, 35 patients (63%) developed recurrent dysphagia and required repeated dilations: 19 patients (34%) had one to two dilations, 9 patients (16%) had three to seven dilations, 6 patients (11%) had more than seven dilations; 1 patient underwent surgery for resection of the schatzki's ring (2%). the mean (range) dilation-free interval was 50.1 months (11.8 to 100 months) in mild cases, 44.5 months (8.9 to 82 months) in moderate cases, and 28.6 months (9 to 76 months) in severe cases. there was no significant correlation between the severity of schatzki's ring on initial presentation and the subsequent dilation-free interval. our data indicate that recurrent dysphagia is common among patients with schatzki's ring after a successful dilation, and that the severity of schatzki's ring is not a good prognostic indicator of the need for subsequent dilation.
isometric features of orthostatic tremor: an electromyographic analysis. a patient is described with "orthostatic" tremor. electromyography revealed tremor bursts of 15 hz in the lower extremities while standing and with isometric activation of the muscles, but the bursts disappeared with isotonic activation of muscles. similar tremor was recorded in the arms with isometric, but not isotonic activation. review of previously reported cases confirms these findings. the clinical and electrophysiologic features of this tremor distinguish it from other recognized forms of tremor.
pancreatic function in crohn's disease. we investigated exocrine pancreatic function in a population of patients with crohn's disease in order to correlate the pancreatic function with clinical and laboratory variables. a total of 143 patients affected by crohn's disease and 115 control subjects were studied. all had a lundh meal test. as a group patients with crohn's disease had significantly decreased activity of both amylase (p less than 0.02) and lipase (p less than 0.001) in duodenal aspirates. in patients with crohn's disease enzyme activities were not correlated to duration of disease or to extent or localisation of previous bowel resection. the lowest enzyme values were found in patients with the most extensive bowel involvement, and they were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than in patients with disease confined to the terminal ileum. the differences between enzyme values in other subgroups of patients were not significant. for the patient group as a whole no correlation was found between disease activity and enzyme values, but for the most uniform group of patients, those with terminal ileitis, pancreatic function was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients with moderate and severe disease compared with patients with mild disease. thus at least two factors seem to be responsible for impaired pancreatic function in crohn's disease: firstly disease activity and secondly localisation or extent of disease.
tumor angiogenesis and metastasis--correlation in invasive breast carcinoma. background. experimental evidence suggests that the growth of a tumor beyond a certain size requires angiogenesis, which may also permit metastasis. to investigate how tumor angiogenesis correlates with metastases in breast carcinoma, we counted microvessels (capillaries and venules) and graded the density of microvessels within the initial invasive carcinomas of 49 patients (30 with metastases and 19 without). methods. using light microscopy, we highlighted the vessels by staining their endothelial cells immunocytochemically for factor viii. the microvessels were carefully counted (per 200x field), and their density was graded (1 to 4+), in the most active areas of neovascularization, without knowledge of the outcome in the patient, the presence or absence of metastases, or any other pertinent variable. results. both microvessel counts and density grades correlated with metastatic disease. the mean (+/- sd) count and grade in the patients with metastases were 101 +/- 49.3 and 2.95 +/- 1.00 vessels, respectively. the corresponding values in the patients without metastases were significantly lower--45 +/- 21.1 and 1.38 +/- 0.82 (p = 0.003 and p less than or equal to 0.001, respectively). for each 10-microvessel increase in the count per 200x field, there was a 1.59-fold increase in the risk of metastasis (95 percent confidence interval, 1.19 to 2.12; p = 0.003). the microvessel count and density grade also correlated with distant metastases. for each 10-microvessel increase in the vessel count per 200x field, there was a 1.17-fold increase in the risk of distant metastasis (95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 1.34; p = 0.029). conclusions. the number of microvessels per 200x field in the areas of most intensive neovascularization in an invasive breast carcinoma may be an independent predictor of metastatic disease either in axillary lymph nodes or at distant sites (or both). assessment of tumor angiogenesis may therefore prove valuable in selecting patients with early breast carcinoma for aggressive therapy.
sarcosaprophagous fly activity in maryland. eighty-six successful rearings of sarcosaprophagous flies characteristic of the first successional insect wave of infestation of a corpse were conducted under field conditions in maryland. different species were observed to be active during spring and summer. the development times for the immature stages of each species, with the related temperatures at which the development occurred are reported for both seasons studied.
central nervous system haemangioblastoma: a clinical and genetic study of 52 cases. fifty two cases of haemangioblastoma were reviewed for their clinical, genetic and prognostic features. of 34 patients with apparently isolated cerebellar lesions, postoperative outcome was good in 79%. six isolated spinal lesions presented more insidiously and morbidity was related to incomplete resection. twelve (23%) of the patients definitely had von hippel-lindau disease (vhld). the true proportion may be higher as this diagnosis was not definitely excluded in many of the remainder; only ten patients with seemingly isolated cerebellar tumours were appropriately investigated and two had evidence of vhld. four out of 26 cases (15%) with apparently completely resected, isolated, cerebellar lesions later developed recurrent tumours. brainstem and supratentorial haemangioblastomas were rare and were always associated with vhld. the cerebellar or spinal haemangioblastomas due to vhld had no distinctive clinical features compared with isolated tumours and there was considerable overlap in age of onset between the two groups of cases. all patients with an apparently isolated cns haemangioblastoma should be investigated for evidence of von hippel-lindau disease.
tracheal and main bronchial disruptions after blunt chest trauma: presentation and management tracheobronchial disruption is one of the less common injuries associated with blunt thoracic trauma. this injury can be life threatening, however, and failure to diagnose it early can lead to disastrous acute or delayed complications. nine cases of tracheobronchial disruption in the setting of nonpenetrating thoracic trauma were seen at four los angeles trauma centers between 1980 and 1987. mechanism of injury, presentation, diagnosis, and management of these patients were reviewed. disruptions involved the trachea in 3 patients, the right bronchus in 5 patients, and the left bronchus in 2 patients. tracheobronchial disruptions occurred in settings of high-energy impact-type injuries and were more likely to have associated injuries than they were to occur alone. common presenting signs included subcutaneous emphysema, dyspnea, sternal tenderness, and hemoptysis. radiographic findings were most commonly pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum, and clavicle or rib fractures. rigid bronchoscopy and fiberoptic bronchoscopy were both highly accurate methods for diagnosis but only in the hands of trained cardiothoracic surgeons. delay in diagnosis increased the likelihood of postoperative complications.
sudden death caused by coronary artery aneurysms: a late complication of kawasaki disease. the authors describe three cases (two blacks and one latin american) of sudden death caused by late complications of kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome). at autopsy each heart contained multiple coronary artery aneurysms with luminal stenosis caused by intimal hyperplasia and thrombi. although virtually all fatal cases of kawasaki disease occur within six months of the onset of symptoms, there have been other reported deaths up to 14 years after the acute illness. the coronary artery aneurysms of kawasaki disease may persist and cause death years after the acute illness.
electrocardiographic j waves after resuscitation from cardiac arrest. a patient was monitored prior to, during, and after cardiac arrest with a holter monitor and an electrocardiograph. the arrest occurred without any premonitory signs on the ecg. at the onset of the arrest, torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia occurred, which quickly degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. after a successful second defibrillation, the patient developed osborn waves, which subsided within a few minutes.
lobular pattern of choriocapillaris in pre-eclampsia with aldosteronism. we report a case of geographic or mosaic pattern yellowish opaque foci in the left eye of a 36-year-old woman who suffered from severe pre-eclampsia. though the geographic lesions resulted in chorioretinal atrophy, the mosaic lesion led to no significant atrophy. these two findings were both diagnosed as manifestations of choroidal ischaemia, the former due to choroidal artery occlusion, the latter to transient insufficiency of choroidal circulation, which reflects the lobular pattern of the choriocapillaris.
clinical, autonomic and therapeutic observations in two siblings with postural hypotension and sympathetic failure due to an inability to synthesize noradrenaline from dopamine because of a deficiency of dopamine beta hydroxylase. a brother and sister with long-standing symptoms of postural hypotension are described. they were considerably worse in the morning, after exercise and in warm weather. in the male, erection was unaffected but ejaculation was prolonged or absent. both had nocturia, but there were no urinary bladder, bowel or sweating abnormalities. autonomic function tests confirmed sympathetic adrenergic failure with spared sympathetic cholinergic and intact parasympathetic function. there were no other neurological abnormalities. noradrenaline and adrenaline were undetectable in the plasma, but plasma dopamine was elevated. urinary levels of noradrenaline and adrenaline metabolites were below detection limits, but dopamine metabolites were normal or elevated. dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was undetectable in the plasma. immunohistochemical studies of perivascular cutaneous tissue confirmed normal peptidergic and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, with absent dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity. the findings were consistent with an enzymatic deficit in the conversion of dopamine to noradrenaline. the parents were clinically and biochemically normal. treatment of both patients with the synthetic amino acid, d-l-threo-dihydroxyphenylserine, which contains a hydroxyl group and is converted to noradrenaline by dopa-decarboxylase, reduced symptoms and signs of postural hypotension and increased levels of plasma noradrenaline and its urinary metabolites. in the male, ejaculation became possible. behavioural changes included a feeling of confidence and optimism, with a tendency to be argumentative. the laevo isomer also raised blood pressure and plasma noradrenaline levels. the drug had no direct pressor effects, as its actions were prevented by the dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor, carbidopa.
a 5.3-kb deletion including exon xiii of the protein s alpha gene occurs in two protein s-deficient families. genomic dna samples from 12 protein s-deficient families with hereditary thrombophilia were analyzed by southern hybridization using protein s cdna probes. protein s-deficient members of families a and b possessed identical restriction fragment length polymorphisms, which suggest the absence of 5.3 kb from one of their protein s alpha alleles. the abnormal alleles from individuals a7 and b1 were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction using a forward primer in intron k and a reverse primer in exon xiv. the amplified dna was cloned and sequenced. sequence comparison with the normal protein s alpha gene showed that most of intron l (roughly 4.7 kb), the entire exon xiii (151 bp), and about a quarter of intron m (407 bp) were missing from both the a7 and b1 clones. exon xiii contains all three potential n-glycosylation sites in human protein s. this deletion may result in rna transcripts in which exon xii is spliced to exon xiv. such an arrangement would generate a stop codon at position 463 and consequently produce a nonglycosylated protein s molecule truncated by 173 amino acids.
use of a probe to repeat sequence of the y chromosome for detection of host cells in peripheral blood of bone marrow transplant recipients. in situ hybridization for the y chromosome (y-ish) was used to identify residual host cells in the peripheral blood of 51 recipients of sex-mismatched allogeneic marrow not depleted of t cells following conditioning with high-dose cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation (tbi). one patient who rejected the graft showed rapid reappearance of host cells after transient donor marrow engraftment. host cells were detected at low levels in 49 of the remaining 50 patients. host peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc) decreased with time and reached a plateau at 1.0 +/- 0.2% within four weeks after transplantation, while the percentage of host granulocytes (gran) reached a plateau at background level. the mean absolute numbers of host pbmc or gran were less than 0.015 x 10(9)/l and did not vary significantly over the period studied. neither the percentages nor the absolute numbers of host pbmc or gran were significantly affected by hla-matching, tbi dose-intensity, pretransplant remission status, subsequent development of acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease or relapse after transplantation. the authors conclude that it is common to find a few residual host cells in the peripheral blood of allogeneic marrow transplant recipients, and the presence of these cells has no clinical significance.
landau-kleffner syndrome: a clinical and eeg study of five cases. in five children with normal initial psychomotor development, a landau-kleffner syndrome appeared at age 3-7 years. no neuroanatomic lesions were noted. aphasia and hyperkinesia were isolated in three patients and associated with global regression of higher cortical functions in one patient. massive intellectual deterioration and psychotic behavior were associated with transient aphasia in one patient. the epilepsy (focal motor and generalized tonic-clonic seizures, subclinical eeg focal seizures during sleep, and atypical absences) always regressed spontaneously or with antiepileptic drug (aed) treatment. the eeg in waking patients showed focal and generalized spike-wave discharges on a normal background rhythm. discharge topography and pattern changed frequently. during sleep, discharges always increased. at some time during syndrome development, all patients had bilateral spike-waves for greater than 85% of the sleep period, while at other times the discharges were discontinuous or continuous but focal or unilaterally hemispheric. discharge topography and abundance changed from night to night. the abnormal eeg and the impaired higher functions developed and regressed together, but not with strict temporal correlation. our own experience suggests that the landau-kleffner syndrome and epilepsy with continuous spike-wave activity in slow-wave sleep cannot be clearly differentiated. they may be different points on the spectrum of a single syndrome.
cardiovascular effects of nicardipine. nicardipine, a new 1-4 dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, has chemical properties that allow oral and stable intravenous preparations. it is the first intravenous dihydropyridine calcium antagonist available in the united states. among its drug class it has a unique chemical structure that affords properties useful in the treatment of acute cardiovascular conditions, such as myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure, hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, and other related disorders. in patients with coronary artery disease, intravenous nicardipine has been found to reduce myocardial oxygen demand by reducing afterload and increasing myocardial oxygen supply through coronary vasodilatation. it enhances left ventricular performance and augments coronary blood flow beyond that required by increased myocardial oxygen consumption. nicardipine may also offer protection from ischemic injury to the heart and central nervous system. alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents, nicardipine has been shown to be effective in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension. it is safe for use in patients with certain types of conduction disturbances because it does not greatly affect sinoatrial and atrioventricular conduction. additional advantages for nicardipine's use in the management of acute cardiovascular disorders are its rapid onset and short duration of action.
synaptic transmission in human neocortex removed for treatment of intractable epilepsy in children. synaptic transmission to pyramidal cells was studied in slices of neocortex resected from infants and children (n = 10, age 8 months to 13 years) undergoing surgical treatment for intractable epilepsy. most specimens were from the least abnormal area of the resection. stable intracellular recordings could be obtained for up to 8 hours. most of the recorded neurons had electrophysiological characteristics similar to those of regular-firing pyramidal cells and were in layers iii to v, which was confirmed by intracellular staining with lucifer yellow. local extracellular stimulation evoked a sequence of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. after application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist, bicuculline (10-30 microm), extracellular stimulation induced large excitatory postsynaptic potentials and epileptiform bursts. spontaneous bursts occasionally occurred in bicuculline. this effect of bicuculline was observed in all the tissue samples, even those from infant patients (n = 4, age 8-16 months). kynurenic acid depressed or abolished both spontaneous and stimulation-induced bursts. the competitive antagonist for n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid decreased the duration of bicuculline-induced bursts. these data provide evidence that, similar to rat and cat neocortex, excitatory and inhibitory amino acids are important transmitters to pyramidal cells in immature human neocortex.
abnormal growth patterns and adult short stature in 115 long-term survivors of childhood leukemia. significant growth retardation was found in 115 survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) who had completed their growth. these children were diagnosed before 12 years of age and treated on four protocols in a single institution; all received either cranial (n = 78) or craniospinal (n = 37) prophylactic irradiation. patients' heights at diagnosis were within expected ranges, but final heights were greater than or equal to 1 sd below population means in 74% of cases and greater than or equal to 2 sd in 37%. effects on growth were more pronounced for children who had received craniospinal irradiation, but decrements were also significant in the cranial irradiation group, with adult heights greater than or equal to 2 sd below population norms in 32%. growth retardation was significantly greater (p less than .0001) in children who had earlier disease onset. growth deceleration occurred not only during chemotherapy but during a later period that followed an interval of improved growth in many cases. thus, late decrements in growth may be missed in studies that do not follow patients until they have attained final heights. these findings indicate that abnormally short stature among survivors of all merits further clinical and research attention.
deep venous thrombosis. implications after open heart surgery. we reviewed the cases of 10,638 cardiac surgical patients to determine the incidence of deep vein thrombosis (dvt) after open heart surgery (ohs). seventy-seven patients (0.7 percent) had dvt. group 1 included 36 patients who had dvt without pulmonary embolism (pe). occurrence was equal in either leg. anticoagulation with heparin and warfarin sodium (coumadin) was employed as treatment. extension of hospital stay was 10.8 days. group 2 consisted of 41 patients who experienced pe 9.9 days after ohs. sixteen patients had known dvt and were receiving heparin. in 25 patients, pe was the first event. risk factors for pe included perioperative myocardial infarction (16 percent), atrial fibrillation (41 percent); blood type a (70 percent) (p less than 0.05), and coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) (98 percent). twenty-four patients were treated with anti-coagulation alone. six died of recurrent pe; mortality was 25 percent. seventeen patients received anticoagulation plus inferior vena cava (ivc) interruption using a hunter balloon. there were no recurrent pes and there was one death from myocardial infarction (6 percent). deep vein thrombosis and pe are rare complications of ohs. routine prophylaxis with either heparin or warfarin is unnecessary. patients with dvt, atrial fibrillation (af), and perioperative myocardial infarction are at high risk of pe. aggressive diagnosis to identify major venous thrombi along with anticoagulation and early consideration of ivc interruption are recommended for these patients. patients who have undergone ohs and who have pe are at an unusually high risk for recurrent pe with death and are more safely treated with ivc interruption and anticoagulation than anticoagulation alone.
scientific inquiry in childhood cancer psychosocial research. theoretical, conceptual, and methodologic issues in the investigation and behavioral treatment of procedure-related distress. this paper discusses the current status of scientific inquiry in childhood cancer psychosocial research. the investigation and behavioral treatment of procedure-related distress serves as a model for illustrating and outlining some of the theoretical, conceptual, and methodologic issues and problems that exist in the area of childhood cancer psychosocial research. specifically, issues related to the process of scientific inquiry, theoretical/conceptual modeling, measurement and assessment, and behavioral treatment strategies are discussed. examples of how these issues have been addressed in our investigations of procedure-related distress are presented and recommendations for facilitating growth and development in the field of childhood cancer psychosocial research are offered.
burden: a review of measures used among caregivers of individuals with dementia this paper critiques and discusses 10 measures of burden that have been used with caregivers of individuals with dementia. current measures target diverse caregiver and care recipient populations, and vary in conceptualization and measurement of burden. although many measures contain reliability data, relatively few report content validity, convergent/divergent validity, criterion validity, or sensitivity to change. implications of these limitations for research and clinical practice are discussed.
spontaneous regression of giant arteriovenous fistulae during the perinatal period. case report. a unique case of spontaneous regression of giant arteriovenous fistulae during infancy is described in this report. a female infant, the product of normal labor and delivery, demonstrated severe ventriculomegaly and an intracranial hemorrhage at birth. cerebral angiography at 5 days of age revealed several large fistulae fed by the anterior and middle cerebral arteries draining into the deep venous system through a dilated internal cerebral vein and ectatic vein of galen. two days following the angiogram, a second intracranial hemorrhage occurred. active hydrocephalus developed over the next 6 months and was treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunting. when the child was 8 months of age, angiography failed to demonstrate the fistulae. it was postulated that pressure effects from the intracranial hematoma and long-standing intracranial hypertension as well as stenosis in the anomalous venous outflow resulted in vascular stasis, venous thrombosis, and selective arterial occlusion. hydrocephalus was a result of the compression of the intraventricular foramina by dilated embryonic vessels. this anomaly, predominantly involving the anterior circulation, may be homologous to the vein of galen aneurysm in the posterior circulation.
proliferation and substrate effects on endothelial cell thrombogenicity. the effects of the cellular differentiation status and the adhesive-substrate on endothelial cell function in cell culture were measured with an enzyme based assay of surface thrombogenicity. a solid plastic, microporous polymeric, and fibronectin (fn) treated microporous polymeric were used as substrates for growth of endothelial cells. the microporous and fn treated synthetic substrates have been shown to aid in the induction of cellular differentiation mechanisms. cells were studied under proliferative and nonproliferative growth conditions. the thrombogenicity of the surface created by the endothelial cell monolayers under various experimental conditions was determined using an enzyme based assay of fibrin deposition. actively proliferating cells on the solid plastic substrate produced the most thrombogenic surface, while confluent endothelial cell monolayers grown on fn treated microporous substrate were the least thrombogenic surfaces. these data suggest that endothelial cell surface thrombogenicity is under substrate control, and also related to the cellular differentiation status. these findings are being used to design a novel approach to the small diameter synthetic vascular graft problem.
removal of radiation-induced cataracts in patients treated for retinoblastoma. experience with removal of radiation-induced cataract in patients treated for retinoblastoma is limited. we retrospectively reviewed the records of 38 patients with retinoblastoma (42 eyes) who underwent removal of radiation-induced cataract from 1973 to 1989. nineteen eyes (45%) without macular tumors or severe radiation complications had final visual acuities in the range of 20/20 to 20/50. one eye (2.4%) developed a rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and four eyes (9.5%) were noted to have amblyopia after cataract removal. three eyes (7%) developed retinoblastoma recurrence, one with extension of retinoblastoma into the subconjunctival space through the previous sclerotomy. exenteration was performed and the patient was alive after 8 years. cataract removal can be visually beneficial in selected patients with radiation-induced cataracts.
angiographic assessment of the culprit coronary artery lesion before acute myocardial infarction. serial angiographic studies of patients with myocardial infarction and unstable angina suggest that the culprit plaque underlying a thrombus need not have produced severe luminal obstruction before onset of the event. an atherosclerotic coronary artery lesion can, therefore, have 2 important characteristics. first, it may be obstructive. second, it may be "vulnerable" in that it has the potential to become thrombogenic if exposed to the appropriate triggering stimulus. a lesion need not be obstructive to become thrombogenic, nor do all obstructive lesions have thrombogenic potential. the cause of an infarction may thus be rupture of a nonobstructive plaque leading to occlusive thrombus formation. because it may be difficult to predict the site of a subsequent occlusion from a coronary angiogram, coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty directed only at discernible stenotic lesions may not be effective for preventing subsequent myocardial infarctions. appropriate therapy may need to be directed at the entire coronary tree. such therapy might include cholesterol lowering, beta blockade and aspirin.
gastrointestinal complications after cardiac transplantation: a spectrum of diseases. cardiac transplantation has become an accepted treatment modality for end-stage cardiac failure. the gastrointestinal (gi) tract represents a potential source of posttransplant morbidity and mortality. to define the scope of this problem, records of all patients undergoing cardiac transplantation at ucla between january 1984 and july 1989 were reviewed. in all, there were 120 patients (90 males and 30 females) with a mean age of 45.4 yr. among them, there were 61 patients (51%) who developed a total of 112 posttransplant gi complications. of the entire 120 patients, 41 (34%) developed minor complications and 20 (17%) sustained major gi morbidity. eighteen patients (15%) underwent either endoscopy or surgical intervention. these data suggest that most cardiac transplant recipients will experience some form of gi complication, although most are minor and can be managed conservatively. however, when major, life-threatening complications occur, evaluation and intervention should proceed expeditiously. the gastroenterologist and gi surgeon should play complimentary roles in the care of these complicated patients.
sex reversal syndrome (xx male). men who appear normal and live a normal life, may have a 46,xx karyotype and present with the typical features of infertility and end organ (testicular) failure. they are azoospermic and their small testicles show specific patterns on light and electron microscopy. recent advances in genetics (1) favor the "x-y interchange" theory to explain this phenomenon; (2) hypothesize about the roles of the h-y antigen and testis determining factor (tdf) in determining "maleness"; and (3) allow mapping of the relative positions of h-y and tdf loci on the y chromosome.
mechanism of intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap. a man with intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome is reported. once a sinus impulse was blocked in the accessory pathway, the block (ie, loss of preexcitation) was continued for a while until a pp interval reached or exceeded a critical period inducing sudden reappearance of preexcitation. this critical period was considerably longer than the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway. these findings are explained by the use of the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap in the accessory pathway. it seems that when loss of protection was maintained, the sinus impulse was blocked at the site proximal to the gap, but the impulse passing through the atrioventricular node always reached retrogradely the site distal to the gap, and therefore, the next sinus impulse was blocked again.
adult t-cell leukemia-derived factor/thioredoxin, produced by both human t-lymphotropic virus type i- and epstein-barr virus-transformed lymphocytes, acts as an autocrine growth factor and synergizes with interleukin 1 and interleukin 2. interleukin 1 (il-1) has been obtained from the epstein-barr virus-infected b-lymphoblastoid cell line 3b6 and shown to be involved in autocrine growth of 3b6 b cells. independently, adult t-cell leukemia-derived factor (adf) was purified from human t-lymphotropic virus i-infected leukemic t-cell line (atl-2) and reported as an interleukin 2 (il-2) receptor-inducing factor. we have previously reported the same molecular mass, pi, and nh2-terminal amino acid sequence for both 3b6-derived il-1 and adf. cdna cloning of adf demonstrated high homology with the prokaryotic disulfide reducing enzyme thioredoxin. we show here that adf and 3b6-derived il-1 are identical. by rna blot, 3b6 and atl-2 cells were shown to contain high levels of 0.6-kilobase mrna corresponding to adf. such message was not detected in resting peripheral blood lymphocytes but could be weakly induced by lymphocyte activation. antibodies have been raised against synthetic peptides corresponding to the nh2 terminus and the cooh terminus of adf. immunoblotting and sequential immunoprecipitation with these antibodies revealed the same 13-kda protein in 3b6 and atl-2 cells. recombinant adf could sustain growth of 3b6 and atl-2 cells at low cellular concentration without fetal calf serum; adf, thus, appears involved in their autocrine growth. similarly, recombinant adf could enhance growth of other b-cell lines, including the epstein-barr virus-negative burkitt lymphoma line bl41 and the lymphoblastoid cell lines crag8, crb95, and 1g8. finally, recombinant adf exhibits marked synergism with other cytokines, such as il-1 and il-2, allowing virally infected lymphocytes to respond to suboptimal amounts of a variety of growth factors.
scanning acoustic microscopy of neoplastic and inflammatory cutaneous tissue specimens. acoustic microscopy utilizes high frequency ultrasound to generate microscopic images. the current study was designed to examine representative disorders of the skin by use of a reflective scanning acoustic microscope (r-sam), and to determine whether the obtainable resolution was sufficient to render a microscopic diagnosis. an olympus uh3 scanning acoustic microscope was utilized with lenses producing burst wave frequencies at 600 and 800 mhz (600 and 800 million cylces/sec). cutaneous tissue specimens representing 12 different neoplastic and inflammatory disorders were examined. acoustic images of unstained sections were compared with conventional light microscopic study of sections stained with hematoxylin-eosin. in most neoplasms examined, it was possible to make a specific diagnosis primarily from low magnification pattern analysis. although individual cells could be visualized, cytologic atypia was poorly defined. in the inflammatory disorders, a specific diagnosis was possible in all but bullous pemphigoid and lichen planus, because the composition of the inflammatory infiltrate was difficult to determine. the advantages of the r-sam include the capability of producing an acoustic profile of the tissue and the future possibility of in situ diagnosis.
a rhesus monkey model for sexual transmission of a papillomavirus isolated from a squamous cell carcinoma. recently we molecularly cloned and characterized a papillomavirus from a lymph node metastasis of a primary penile carcinoma found in a rhesus monkey; this virus species, rhesus papillomavirus type 1 (rhpv-1), is similar to oncogenic human papillomaviruses (hpvs), such as hpv-16 or hpv-18, in that the rhpv-1 dna was found to be integrated in the tumor cell dna. to compare the sexual transmission and oncogenic nature of rhpv-1 with these hpvs, we undertook an extensive retrospective study of a group of rhesus monkeys whose sexual mating and offspring histories were known. these animals had mated directly with the index male mentioned above or were secondarily exposed to this virus through intermediate sexual partners. this study combines cytological, histopathological, and several complementary hybridization and dna amplification techniques on multiple tissue samples to demonstrate the sexually transmitted nature of rhpv-1. the oncogenic potential of rhpv-1 is suggested in several of the infected animals by the presence of various degrees of neoplasia including squamous cell cancer of the cervix.
omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy. transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices. a small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy. such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain, stricture formation, and recurrent hemorrhage. the use of omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients (6 women, 4 men; age range, 27-86 years) with cirrhosis (pbc, 4; sclerosing cholangitis, 2; chronic active liver disease, 2; alcohol, 1; and cryptogenic, 1) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 (range, 8-21) sessions of sclerotherapy. the ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose h2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate. in each case one or more complications had occurred: severe pain in 3, stricture formation in 4, and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases. after an 8-week course of omeprazole, 40 mg daily, endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution. in 2 cases the ulcer recurred, with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient. both cases responded to repeat therapy. these results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers.
concealed entrainment as a guide for catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in patients with prior myocardial infarction. fifteen consecutive patients with drug-refractory, recurrent, sustained, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and a history of remote myocardial infarction underwent catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia. shocks of 100 to 300 j were delivered to sites at which pacing during ventricular tachycardia resulted in concealed entrainment, in which the ventricular tachycardia accelerated to the pacing rate, there was a long stimulus to qrs interval and there was no change in the configuration of the qrs complex during pacing at several rates compared with the configuration during ventricular tachycardia, thus identifying a zone of slow conduction in the reentrant circuit. concealed entrainment was demonstrated in nine (60%) of 15 patients, and the stimulus to qrs intervals were 90 to 400 ms. at sites of concealed entrainment, the endocardial activation time relative to the qrs complex during ventricular tachycardia ranged from -125 to +50 ms, the timing of the local electrogram relative to the qrs complex was the same during entrainment as during ventricular tachycardia and the pace map during sinus rhythm was discordant with that of the ventricular tachycardia in seven patients. in the six patients in whom a site of concealed entrainment could not be identified, the target site for ablation was selected on the basis of identification of an isolated mid-diastolic potential, activation mapping and pace mapping. the mean (+/- sd) cumulative number of joules delivered to the target site was 306 +/- 140. a successful long-term clinical outcome was achieved in 9 of the 15 patients (mean follow-up 20 +/- 7 months). the clinical success rate was the same whether the target site was selected on the basis of concealed entrainment (five of nine, 56%) or on the basis of the other mapping techniques (four of six, 67%). in conclusion, the responses to pacing suggest that sites at which there is concealed entrainment may be located within a zone of slow conduction in the ventricular tachycardia reentry circuit, although not necessarily in an area critical for the maintenance of reentry. the long-term clinical efficacy of catheter ablation targeted to sites of concealed entrainment is about 60%, similar to the results achieved when conventional mapping techniques are used.
intravascular ultrasound imaging of human coronary arteries in vivo. analysis of tissue characterizations with comparison to in vitro histological specimens. background. intravascular ultrasound imaging was performed in 27 patients after coronary balloon angioplasty to quantify the lumen and atheroma cross-sectional areas. methods and results. a 20-mhz ultrasound catheter was inserted through a 1.6-mm plastic introducer sheath across the dilated area to obtain real-time images at 30 times/sec. the ultrasound images distinguished the lumen from atheroma, calcification, and the muscular media. the presence of dissection between the media and the atheroma was well visualized. these observations of tissue characterization were compared with an in vitro study of 20 human atherosclerotic artery segments that correlated the ultrasound images to histological preparations. the results indicate that high-quality intravascular ultrasound images under controlled in vitro conditions can provide accurate microanatomic information about the histological characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques. similar quality cross-sectional ultrasound images were also obtained in human coronary arteries in vivo. quantitative analysis of the ultrasound images from the clinical studies revealed that the mean cross-sectional lumen area after balloon angioplasty was 5.0 +/- 2.0 mm2. the mean residual atheroma area at the level of the prior dilatation was 8.7 +/- 3.4 mm2, which corresponded to 63% of the available arterial cross-sectional area. at the segments of the coronary artery that appeared angiographically normal, the ultrasound images demonstrated the presence of atheroma involving 4.7 +/- 3.2 mm2, which was a mean of 35 +/- 23% of the available area bounded by the media. conclusions. intravascular ultrasound appears to be more sensitive than angiography for demonstrating the presence and extent of atherosclerosis and arterial calcification. intracoronary imaging after balloon angioplasty reveals that a significant amount of atheroma is still present, which may partly explain why the incidence of restenosis is high after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.
characteristics of erythroleukemia cells selected for vincristine resistance that have accelerated inducer-mediated differentiation. the induction of murine erythroleukemia cells (melc; ds19/sc9) to terminal differentiation by hexamethylenebisacetamide (hmba) is characterized by a latent period of 10-12 hr before onset of commitment to terminal-cell division and increased transcription of globin genes. melc variants, derived from this parental cell line, selected for resistance to vincristine (vc), can be induced to differentiate with little or no latent period. this study shows that accelerated hmba-induced commitment is characteristic of melc with a low level (2- to 5-fold) of vc resistance in four independently derived cell lines. both resistance to vc and accelerated differentiation are stable phenotypes for at least 50 passages (approximately 5 months) in the absence of vc. low-level vc-resistant melc do not display increased levels of p-glycoprotein or mdr1, mdr2, and mdr3 mrnas, nor do they exhibit cross-resistance to colchicine or doxorubicin. these cells do show (i) increased level of protein kinase c activity, (ii) reduced accumulation of [3h]vc, and (iii) restoration of vc sensitivity in the presence of verapamil. melc selected for higher levels of vc resistance (approximately 500-fold) do express high levels of p-glycoprotein and the mdr3 gene. during hmba-induced differentiation, ds19/sc9 decrease [3h]vc accumulation, but p-glycoprotein content does not change. a vc-transport-associated protein, also critical for the process of induced differentiation, may be constitutively present in vc-resistant melc, accounting for their enhanced sensitivity to inducer. this protein accumulates by exposure of vc-sensitive cells to hmba, contributing to their differentiation and decreased level of vc accumulation.
cortical blindness after coronary angiography: a rare but reversible complication. transient cortical blindness is a recognized complication after vertebral and cerebral angiography but is a rare event after cardiac angiography. the development of cortical blindness appears to be an adverse reaction to the contrast agent which results in an osmotic disruption of the blood-brain barrier which appears to be selective for the occipital cortex. patient outcome appears to be generally favorable with return of vision within 24-48 hr. this study describes three patients who had transient cortical blindness after cardiac catheterization and reviews what is known about this unusual problem.
effects of age on seizure susceptibility in genetically epilepsy-prone rats (gepr-9s). to study the effect of age on seizure latency, intensity, reproducibility, and mortality in genetically epilepsy-prone rats of the severe colony (gepr-9s), 472 seizure-naive rats, ranging in age from 14 to 65 days, received a series of three audiogenic stimulations. both the percentage of rats having one or more seizures and the percentage of seizures that were stage 9 generally increased with advancing age of the animal at the time of the first stimulation. mean latency to seizure onset decreased while seizure intensity increased with increasing age of the animal. reproducibility of seizure stage also increased with advancing age of the animal. the effects of senescence on seizure susceptibility were also investigated in an additional 18 prepubescent rats (25-35 days) who received three audiogenic stimulations and were tested again between the ages of 480 and 540 days with identical testing procedures. no significant changes occurred with either latency to seizure onset or seizure intensity in rats tested during prepubescence and again at senescence. although gepr-9s provide an excellent model of inherited seizures, latency to seizure onset, seizure intensity, and seizure reproducibility is dependent on age of the animal. once established, however, audiogenic-induced seizures persist throughout life.
the modified schollner costoplasty. the modified schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis. we present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis. we found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications. objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case. all but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit.
fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count are major risk factors for ischemic heart disease. the caerphilly and speedwell collaborative heart disease studies background. recent studies have suggested that hemostatic factors and white blood cell count are predictive of ischemic heart disease (ihd). the relations of fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count to the incidence of ihd in the caerphilly and speedwell prospective studies are described. methods and results. the two studies have a common core protocol and are based on a combined cohort of 4,860 middle-aged men from the general population. the first follow-up was at a nearly constant interval of 5.1 years in caerphilly and 3.2 years in speedwell; 251 major ihd events had occurred. age-adjusted relative odds of ihd for men in the top 20% of the distribution compared with the bottom 20% were 4.1 (95% confidence interval, 2.6-6.5) for fibrinogen, 4.5 (95% confidence interval, 2.8-7.4) for viscosity, and 3.2 (95% confidence interval, 2.0-4.9) for white blood cell count. associations with ihd were similar in men who had never smoked, exsmokers, and current smokers, and the results suggest that at least part of the effect of smoking on ihd is mediated through fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count. multivariate analysis shows that white blood cell count is an independent risk factor for ihd as is either fibrinogen or viscosity, or possibly both. jointly, these three variables significantly improve the fit of a logistic regression model containing all the main conventional risk factors. further, a model including age, smoking habits, fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count predicts ihd as well as one in which the three hemostatic/rheological variables are replaced by total cholesterol, diastolic pressure, and body mass index. conclusion. jointly, fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count are important risk factors for ihd.
thymic carcinoma. a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases. the clinicopathologic features of 60 patients with thymic carcinoma were studied. patients ranged in age from 10 to 76 years (mean, 46), of whom 24 were females and 36 were males. overall survival at 1, 3, and 5 years was 56.6%, 40%, and 33.3%, respectively. the following morphologic features were correlated with survival: type of tumor margins; presence or absence of a lobular growth pattern; nuclear atypia; necrosis; mitotic activity; and histologic tumor type and grade. eighty eight percent of patients with poorly circumscribed/infiltrating neoplasms died of their tumors as compared with 16.6% of patients with well-circumscribed neoplasms (p less than 0.0000). of patients whose tumors had mitotic counts exceeding 10/10 high-power fields (hpf), 84.3% died, as compared with 21.4% of patients with lower mitotic counts (p less than 0.0000). of patients whose tumors showed lack of lobular growth pattern, 91.6% died, as compared with 29% of those whose tumors had a lobular growth pattern (p less than 0.0000). finally, 84.6% of patients whose tumors displayed a high-grade histology (lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma, small cell/neuroendocrine carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma, sarcomatid carcinoma, and anaplastic/undifferentiated carcinoma) died of tumor, as compared with 0% of patients whose tumors were of low-grade histology (well-differentiated squamous carcinoma, mucoepidermoid carcinoma, and basaloid carcinoma) (p less than 0.0000). evaluation of the various treatment modalities used to treat these patients did not yield any statistically significant correlations with survival. two clinically distinct groups of patients were identified: one after a relatively favorable clinical course with long survival, and one after a rapidly fatal outcome. the morphologic features of the tumors in these patients correlated well with their clinical behavior; histologic type (and the grade to which it was assigned) constituted the most reliable and important predictor of prognosis.
the role of indium-labelled leukocyte imaging in pyrexia of unknown origin. indium-111-labeled white blood cell scanning is often used in the investigation of pyrexia of unknown origin (puo) to locate an otherwise occult source of sepsis. from a series of 166 white blood cell studies performed for sepsis, 28 cases of true puo were identified and reviewed. the sensitivity was 60% and specificity 70%, with a positive predictive value of 38% and negative predictive value of 90%. only 11% of studies revealed a pyogenic cause for puo. these results are discussed and the potential role of gallium scanning in puo is raised.
secondary prevention of acute myocardial infarction with beta-blocking agents and calcium antagonists. the discovery that beta blockers possess clinically useful hypotensive, antianginal and antiarrhythmic properties has attracted the interest of clinicians, researchers and the pharmaceutical community alike. in addition, minor differences in a variety of ancillary properties have led to speculation that specific classes of drugs might have advantages over other classes. the enthusiasm that greeted reports from the first small trials, which showed that beta blockers reduced the postmyocardial infarction mortality rate, attracted the commercial support necessary to evaluate different beta blockers in this clinical setting. the plethora of beta blockers that subsequently became available for study led to considerable improvement in both the design and implementation of large clinical trials. despite apparent discrepancies in the results of various trials, meta-analysis indicates that most, if not all, beta blockers reduce postinfarction mortality. however, because meta-analysis cannot recommend a particular drug or specific dose for use in an individual patient, clinical practice must be based on the results of individual trials, not on the conclusions of meta-analysis. the clinical utility of beta blockers in the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction, coupled with experimental evidence that calcium antagonists reduce infarct size, led to a series of large studies designed to establish whether calcium antagonists have any effect on reducing mortality in patients with myocardial infarction. lessons learned from the beta-blocker trials permitted a more rapid evaluation of the efficacy of calcium antagonists in this setting. it is clear that, unlike beta blockers, calcium antagonists are not effective in the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction.
how american oncologists treat breast cancer: an assessment of the influence of clinical trials. the present study was designed to assess the preferred methods of treatment of breast cancer by american oncologists, and the impact of clinical trials on their practice. we mailed 465 questionnaires to surgical, radiation, or medical oncologists. the questionnaire described five hypothetic patients with breast cancer, and respondents were asked to select their preferred treatment for each patient. for primary breast cancer, most physicians would offer the choice of local excision followed by radiation therapy or modified radical mastectomy. about 80% of physicians would prescribe adjuvant chemotherapy for a premenopausal woman with estrogen receptor-negative, axillary node negative breast cancer, and for a postmenopausal woman with estrogen receptor-negative, node-positive disease. this policy was favored by male and female physicians of each specialty. almost all respondents would treat a young woman with inflammatory breast cancer with initial chemotherapy followed by radiation and/or surgery, and about 60% would recommend chemotherapy to a postmenopausal patient with estrogen receptor-negative disease and minimally symptomatic bone metastases. clinical trials have compared treatment strategies that could be applied to patients described in our questionnaire. preferred treatments for primary breast cancer, and for inflammatory breast cancer are supported by the results of clinical trials. recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy for node-negative breast cancer is not based on a consistent demonstration of improvement in survival, although randomized trials with short follow-up have shown delay to recurrence. recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy for a postmenopausal woman with node-positive breast cancer is contrary to the results of large randomized controlled trials (and to a meta-analysis), which have shown that this policy does not lead to improved survival. our report suggests that even large randomized clinical trials may have a minimal impact on practice if their results run counter to belief in the value of the treatment.
decreased osmotic stability of dystrophin-less muscle cells from the mdx mouse human x-linked duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies are due to defects in dystrophin, the product of an exceptionally large gene. although dystrophin has been characterized as a spectrin-like submembranous cytoskeletal protein, there is no experimental evidence for its function in the structural maintenance of muscle. current hypotheses attribute necrosis of dystrophin-less fibres in situ to mechanical weakening of the outer membrane, to an excessive influx of ca2+ ions, or to a combination of these two mechanism, possibly mediated by stretch-sensitive ion channels. using hypo-osmotic shock to determine stress resistance and a mouse model (mdx) for the human disease, we show that functional dystrophin contributes to the stability of both cultured myotubes and isolated mature muscle fibres.
anaesthetic hazards of aortocaval fistula. a 66-yr-old man was anaesthetized for repair of a suspected ruptured aortic aneurysm. he became deeply cyanosed and suffered two episodes of asystole as the surgeons entered the abdomen. after the aorta was cross-clamped his condition improved markedly and no further problems ensued. surgical exploration demonstrated intact aneurysms of the aorta and left iliac artery, the former containing a 3-4 cm long aortocaval fistula. the aneurysms and fistula were repaired and his further course was uncomplicated. potential causes for the cyanosis and cardiac arrest in this patient are discussed.
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma. the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (hes) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl. the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema, persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia, organomegaly, interstitial lung change, and pericarditis. postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node, liver, lung, and kidney. the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma, and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma. other possible sequences are discussed. the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation.
brain potentials associated with movement in traumatic brain injury. brain potentials may be used to assess the functional abnormalities that underlie impairments of movement. the purpose of this article is to illustrate the usefulness of examining these potentials. in addition to an overview of the topic, the article includes a report of a study demonstrating that there were differences between the brain potentials of five patients with traumatic brain injury and those of four healthy control subjects. all five patients were in the postacute phase of hemiplegia. slow cortical potentials associated with simple goal-directed forearm and finger movements were recorded from frontal and parietal electrodes. two seconds of movement-related electroencephalographic activity (movement-related potential) were recorded. the patients showed reduced brain potentials for movements associated with their paretic limb and, to a lesser extent, reduced brain potentials for movements associated with their nonparetic limb. the waveforms obtained from the patients were unusual, with uncharacteristic cross-cortical movement-related potential correlations associated with specific electrode configurations, as well as with specific movement conditions. brain potentials associated with the fore-period interval of a simple reaction time paradigm were later recorded in two of the patients with traumatic brain injury and in a control subject to help determine the functional significance of the relative positivity apparent in their movement-related potential data. this preliminary study indicates that electroencephalographic potentials obtained during the preparation for and execution of movement can provide information regarding the basis for motor dysfunction.
simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse and systolic anterior motion in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. this report describes the simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse (mvp) and systolic anterior motion (sam) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc). in 25 patients (aged 7 to 62 years, mean 29), 15 (60%) of whom were male, distal portions of the anterior or posterior mitral leaflets approached or made midsystolic contact with the ventricular septum, whereas the proximal portion of the mitral leaflets showed marked cephalad excursion into the left atrium, 5 to 15 mm beyond the mitral annular plane. three mitral valves that were available for gross visual inspection were not morphologically typical of patients with primary mvp. clinical features and natural history (1 to 14 years [mean 6] of follow-up), cardiac dimensions, and distribution of left ventricular hypertrophy defined in the study patients did not appear to differ distinctly from those in the overall referral population of patients with hc evaluated at our institution. hence, patients with hc may show a striking pattern of mitral valvular motion involving sam into the left ventricular outflow tract, as well as mvp; this prolapse motion is probably due to anatomic disproportion between the mitral valve and the small left ventricular cavity rather than to the coexistence of 2 separate disease entities. such patients further define the great diversity evident within the broad clinical spectrum of hc.
dissection of the cardinal ligament in radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer with emphasis on the lateral ligament. surgical experience with carcinomas of the uterus and rectum has provided new insights into the surgical anatomy of a lamina, which separates the paravesical space from the pararectal space. it has been proved that each of the lamina consists of the cardinal and lateral ligaments and pelvic splanchnic nerves, descending in the following order. the cardinal and lateral ligaments, as a connective stalk, insert into the lateral walls of the uterus and rectum extending from the inner aspect of the pelvic wall. clarification of this structural relationship led to the development of a new procedure for the dissection of the cardinal ligament in radical hysterectomy, while still preserving the lateral ligament. this facilitated systematic dissection of the cardinal and uterosacral ligaments with posterior manipulation, leading to a reduction in blood loss and to prevention of brisk bleeding from the venous plexuses.
comparative yield of salmonella typhi from blood and bone marrow cultures in patients with fever of unknown origin. over three years, a comparative study on 100 selected patients with fever of unknown origin was undertaken to determine the yield of salmonella typhi from their blood and bone marrow cultures. the results indicate that in patients who had an infection with s typhi the organism was isolated from the bone marrow in all of them and from the blood in only 66%. this suggests that bone marrow cultures may be attempted when blood cultures are negative for bacterial growth after three to four days of incubation.
radial shortening for kienbock disease. the cases of twenty-nine consecutive patients (thirty wrists) who had radial shortening for the treatment of stages i through iiib kienbock disease were reviewed to assess the results of this procedure. thirteen patients (45 per cent) had a history of trauma, and all thirty wrists had a negative ulnar variance (average, 2.8 millimeters) on radiographs. all wrists were re-examined after an average follow-up of 3.8 years (minimum, two years). at that time, the pain had decreased in 87 per cent of the wrists. extension of the wrist had improved an average of 32 per cent; flexion, 27 per cent; radial deviation, 30 per cent; ulnar deviation, 41 per cent; and grip strength on the affected side, 49 per cent. analysis of the radiographs by computer digitization showed no significant changes in the amount of collapse of the lunate at the latest follow-up. in two wrists, there were complications at follow-up (excessive shortening of the radius and non-union of the radial osteotomy). radial shortening is an effective treatment for kienbock disease in wrists that do not have degenerative changes in adjacent carpal joints. pain, range of motion, and strength can be expected to improve, but the radiographic appearance of the lunate changes little, if any.
active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma. a clinical trial with mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibodies elicited with syngeneic anti-high-molecular-weight-melanoma-associated antigen monoclonal antibodies [published erratum appears in j clin invest 1991 feb;87(2):757] in two clinical trials the mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibody (mab) mf11-30, which bears the internal image of human high-molecular-weight-melanoma-associated antigen (hmw-maa) was administered by subcutaneous route without adjuvants to patients with stage iv malignant melanoma on day 0, 7, and 28. additional injections were administered if anti-antiidiotypic antibodies were not found or their titer decreased. in the first phase i trial with 16 patients the initial dose was 0.5 mg per injection and escalated to 4 mg per injection. neither toxicity nor allergic reactions were observed despite the development of anti-mouse ig antibodies. minor responses were observed in three patients. in a second clinical trial mab mf11-30 was administered to 21 patients at a dose of 2 mg per injection, since this dose had been shown in the initial study to be effective in inducing anti-antiidiotypic antibodies. two patients were inevaluable; in the remaining 19 patients, the average duration of treatment was 34 wk. in this trial as well, neither toxicity nor allergic reactions were observed. 17 of the 19 immunized patients increased the levels of anti-mouse ig antibodies and 16 developed antibodies that inhibit the binding of antiidiotypic mab mf11-30 to the immunizing anti-hmw-maa mab 225.28. one patient increased the level of anti-hmw-maa antibodies. one patient achieved a complete remission with disappearance of multiple abdominal lymph nodes for a duration of 95 wk. minor responses were observed in three patients. these results suggest that mouse antiidiotypic mab that bear the internal image of hmw-maa may be useful reagents to implement active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma.
fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation. to determine the effect of fibrin glue on intra-abdominal adhesion formation, 45 rats were randomized to three groups. each animal received two adhesion models. group 1 received no further treatment. groups 2 and 3 had the adhesion models covered with fibrinogen from fresh frozen plasma (1.77 g/l) and cryoprecipitate (23.6 g/l), respectively. in group 1, 13 of 15 rats had high-grade adhesions in both models. in group 2, high-grade adhesions were noted in nine of 15 rats in model 1 and in 12 of 15 rats in model 2. in group 3, however, high-grade adhesions were seen in only three of 15 rats in model 1, with 11 rats having no adhesions, and in only two of 15 rats in model 2. histologic analysis suggested accelerated healing in group 3. we conclude that (1) fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation in rats, (2) the inhibitory action is dependent on the fibrinogen concentration of the fibrin glue, and (3) adhesions are reduced by fibrin glue regardless of whether the peritoneal defect is closed.
deep vein obstruction and leg swelling caused by femoral ganglion. we present a case of a rare ganglion cyst originating from the hip joint and compressing the common femoral vein producing signs and symptoms that mimicked a deep vein thrombosis. excision of the mass promptly restored normal venous return. this condition has not been previously reported in the english-language medical literature.
acute pulmonary embolism triggered by the act of defecation. pulmonary embolism associated with the act of defecation has not been previously well described. recently, we reported our experience with four patients who presented to us over a 12-month period with syncope, near syncope, or sudden death following the act of defecation. in all four cases, acute pulmonary embolism was shown to be the etiology of the defecation-associated events. a retrospective chart review of all patients with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism at our institution over a three-year period yielded five additional patients with the diagnosis of defecation-associated pulmonary embolism. these nine patients accounted for 6.8 percent of all patients with a discharge diagnosis of pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the three-year study period. six of the nine patients died from their defecation-associated pulmonary embolism. these six deaths accounted for 25 percent of all deaths from pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the study period. based on our experience, we suggest that the act of defecation may trigger the development of acute pulmonary embolism in some patients with deep vein thrombosis.
two different point g to a mutations in exon 10 of the porphobilinogen deaminase gene are responsible for acute intermittent porphyria. two mutations of the porphobilinogen (pbg) deaminase gene resulting in cross-reacting immunological material (crim) positive forms of acute intermittent porphyria (aip) have been identified by in vitro amplification of cdna and cloning of the amplified products in a bacterial expression vector. both mutations resulted from g to a transitions in exon 10 of the gene and produced arginine to glutamine substitutions in the abnormal protein. expression of mutant cdna in escherichia coli reveals that one but not the other of these amino acid changes results in a striking decrease of the optimal ph of the mutated enzyme. one or the other of these two mutations accounted for the defect causing aip in six unrelated patients among the eight patients evaluated with the crim positive subtype of this disorder.
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section: a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia. the morphine was administered as a single bolus, following delivery, in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg. the charts of 4880 caesarean sections, performed on 4500 patients, were reviewed. the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded. the duration of analgesia was 22.9 +/- 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine. eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr. twelve patients (0.25 per cent) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute, on at least one occasion. no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea. pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients, nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent. herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients. epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose. even in this young healthy patient population, clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated.
immunohistologic localization of alpha, mu, and pi class glutathione s-transferases in human tissues. human alpha, pi, and mu class glutathione s-transferases (gsh s-t) have been localized immunohistologically in a variety of organs. alpha gsh s-t are found principally in hepatocytes, proximal convoluted tubules of kidney, the deep reticular layer of the adrenal gland, interstitial cells of the testis, and oxyntic cells of the stomach. the pi gsh s-t are present in relative abundance in ductular, as opposed to parenchymal cells in the liver, pancreas, salivary glands, and kidney. the presence of mu gsh s-t in the tissues of certain patients and its absence in the same tissues from other patients has been demonstrated. the pi gsh s-t seems to be most persistently and strongly expressed in tumors but alpha gsh s-t are also found in some neoplasms whereas the mu gsh s-t are occasionally present when the other two transferases are weak or absent.
coexpression of two fibronectin receptors, vla-4 and vla-5, by immature human erythroblastic precursor cells. human erythroblastic precursor cells adhere to fibronectin (fn) but the exact nature of the receptors mediating this interaction has not been characterized. in this study, we report data showing that immature human erythroblasts express the integrins vla-4 and vla-5 and that both these molecules act as fibronectin receptors on these cells. we have recently demonstrated that adhesion to fn of purified human cfu-e and their immediate progeny preproerythroblasts was inhibited by antibodies directed against the human fibronectin receptor (vla-5). here we have extended those results and characterized by immunoprecipitation with specific antibodies the integrins expressed on surface-labeled normal human immature erythroblasts. a polyclonal antibody recognizing the common vla beta 1 subunit yielded two polypeptides of 120 and 160 kd. our data further demonstrate that the polypeptide of 160 kd contains alpha subunits corresponding to both alpha 4 and alpha 5. thus, erythroblast lysates prepared in 0.3% chaps and immunoprecipitated with antibodies which specifically recognize the alpha 4 subunit showed a heterodimer with peptides of 120 (beta 1) and 160 kd (alpha 4) and the additional peptides of 70 and 80 kd which usually coprecipitate with the alpha 4 chain. on the other hand, specific anti-alpha 5 antibodies immunoprecipitated an alpha 5/beta 1 complex with peptides of 120 and 160 kd which under reducing conditions migrated as a single band of 130 kd. similar experiments performed with an erythroleukemic cell line (ku 812) showed that these cells also coexpress both the vla-4 and vla-5 members of the integrin family. furthermore, monoclonal antibodies recognizing the vla alpha 4 chain blocked the adhesion of immature erythroblasts to fn-coated surfaces, thus demonstrating that, as vla-5, vla-4 is also a functional fn receptor on these cells.
preoperative evaluation and surgical treatment for tricuspid regurgitation associated with acquired valvular heart disease. the kay-boyd method vs the carpentier-edwards ring method. this study compared the results of annuloplastic repair of tricuspid regurgitation (tr) using doppler echocardiography. sixty-three patients who underwent tricuspid annuloplasty were studied. thirty-four patients received kay-boyd annuloplasty and 29 carpentier-edwards ring annuloplasty. a new classification of tr based on the direction and area of regurgitation flow on doppler echocardiogram was applied preoperatively. in the kay-boyd group, 10 cases showed massive tr and 24 cases showed localized tr preoperatively. localized tr was well controlled in all cases, but 8 of 9 cases of massive tr showed grade iii residual tr. in the c-e group, 21 cases showed massive tr and 8 cases showed localized tr. all cases were well controlled postoperatively. we conclude that (1) although the kay-boyd method is acceptable for localized tr, the c-e method should be employed for massive tr; (2) analyzing the regurgitant pattern of tr by doppler echocardiogram is useful in selecting an appropriate surgical technique.
effect of desmopressin acetate on hemorrhage without identifiable cause in coronary bypass patients. after early hopeful reports, the ability of desmopressin acetate (ddavp) to substantially reduce post surgical hemorrhage has been questioned. a total of 74 elective coronary bypass patients (group a) receiving ddavp (0.3 micrograms/kg) who, in the opinion of the operating surgeon, did not achieve adequate hemostasis after protamine neutralization of heparin were studied. they were compared with 91 age- and sex-matched controls (group b). before surgery there was no difference in hematocrit (40.8% vs. 40.3%); bleeding time (5.3 vs. 4.9 sec); platelet count (267 +/- 8 vs. 309 +/- 13 x 10(3)/mm3); fibrinogen (363 vs. 361 mg/dl); or activated clotting time (act) (168 +/- 4 vs. 163 +/- 3 sec). both groups had the same number of grafts (3.3/pt), use of the mammary artery (72%), and average bypass time (124 min). there were also no differences in postbypass act (142 +/- 3 vs. 135 +/- 2 sec); platelet count (97 +/- 10 vs. 120 +/- 24 x 10(3)/mm3); and fibrinogen (157 +/- 35 vs. 207 +/- 40 mg/dl). however, postoperative hemorrhage was strikingly different: 1306 +/- 89 vs. 896 +/- 33 ml (p less than .0001). fifteen patients in group a bled more than 1.5 liters compared with 4 in group b. red cell transfusion rates were 1.23 +/- 0.26 for group a and 0.35 +/- 0.8 for group b (p less than 0.005). sixteen group a patients received additional blood products (plasma and platelets). the hemorrhage difference remained significant even when these patients were excluded (1098 +/- 57 vs. 896 +/- 34, p less than 0.003). three group a patients were re-explored without a bleeding source located.
further study of mucosal repair by sofalcone in experimental gastritis. the effect of sofalcone on the glandular structure and cell proliferation in the gastric mucosa of rats with gastritis induced by the administration of sodium taurocholate (tca) for 6 months was examined by histoquantitative analysis and [3h]thymidine autoradiography. morphometric observation revealed that, with tca treatment, mucosal thickness, parietal cell mass, and the ratios of the length of the glandular portion/total length of the gastric gland were decreased in both the fundic and pyloric glands. inflammatory cell infiltration and collagenous fiber proliferation were present in the gastric mucosa following tca and indicated the presence of atrophic gastritis. these atrophic changes and inflammatory cell infiltration were reversed by a 3 week administration of sofalcone. cellular proliferative activity assessed by the labeling indices of the gastric mucosa increased in tca-induced gastritis in rats. the administration of sofalcone to rats with tca-induced gastritis significantly increased labeling indices, particularly in the pyloric glands. from these results, it appears that sofalcone stimulates the compensatory increase in proliferative activity of generative cells, which then may become available to heal the gastritis.
evaluation of preload reserve during isometric exercise testing in patients with old myocardial infarction: doppler echocardiographic study. to estimate the preload reserve in response to an increase in afterload in patients with old myocardial infarction, the relation between the doppler echocardiographic inflow velocity pattern and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was investigated during isometric handgrip exercise testing. the study population consisted of 16 normal subjects and 40 patients with old myocardial infarction. the 40 patients were subdivided into two groups according to left ventricular end-diastolic pressure at rest: group i (22 patients), less than 18 mm hg; group ii (18 patients), 18 mm hg or more. at rest, the ratio of peak velocity in atrial contraction phase to peak velocity in early diastolic filling phase (a/e) was significantly higher in the patients with old myocardial infarction than in normal subjects; values in the two subgroups of myocardial infarction did not differ significantly. the a/e ratio and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased significantly during exercise in group i. conversely, the change in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure during exercise in group ii was significantly greater than that in group i, and was associated with a decrease in the a/e ratio. thus, an atrial compensatory mechanism operated effectively in response to the increase in afterload in patients with a normal left ventricular filling pressure, whereas this compensatory mechanism deteriorated in patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure due to a limited preload reserve.
rationalisation of follow-up in patients with non-invasive bladder tumours. a preliminary report. the risk of recurrence and progression in 170 patients presenting with pta urothelial tumours of the bladder has been estimated so that follow-up can be rationalised. patients were followed up for between 1 and 15 years, the original pathology reviewed and those with carcinoma in situ (cis) or dysplasia of the background urothelium excluded. only 5 patients progressed over the whole follow-up period, giving an overall progression rate of 3%. solitary tumours had an annual initial recurrence risk (air) of 0.23 in the first year; after the first year the air fell to approximately 0.1 but did not fall significantly in subsequent years up to 8 years. of the 45 patients with multiple tumours, 32 suffered recurrences within the first year (air 0.71). tumour grade did not influence either recurrence or progression. the results indicate that for solitary pta tumours, less frequent endoscopic follow-up is justified but some continued surveillance after 5 disease-free years is necessary. the estimated risk of recurrence is a useful factor to consider when planning follow-up.
sudden death from acute cocaine intoxication in virginia in 1988. a review of medical examiners' autopsy records revealed that in 1988, 33 residents of virginia died of acute cocaine intoxication. the subjects were 19 to 45 years old; most were men, used cocaine intravenously, and used other toxic substances with the lethal dose of cocaine.
expression of the human nephron differentiation molecules in renal cell carcinomas. the authors tested frozen sections from 28 renal cell carcinomas (rcc)--21 clear, 1 eosinophilic, 4 basophilic, and 2 spindle-shaped cell type--with monoclonal antibodies (mab) reacting against cytokeratin, vimentin, cd24, calla/cd10, villin, cd26, and hla class i and class ii molecules. these molecules are markers of specific segments of the mature kidney, and their loss or acquisition reflects the different steps of human nephrogenesis. ki67 mab was used to evaluate cell-proliferating activity. all rcc cases expressed cytokeratin. coexpression of vimentin was observed in 21 of 28 cases. whether of clear or chromophilic type, all tumoral cells strongly expressed cd24 molecule, present on primitive blastema cells. all clear-type rccs expressed calla/cd10 and 60% were also villin positive; some were faintly positive for cd26. calla, villin, and cd26 were not detected in basophilic cell type. hla class i molecules were variably expressed in almost all cases, but hla class ii were never detected on tumoral cells. except for the spindle-shaped population, cell-proliferating activity was low. these results favor the hypothesis that rccs derive from cells that have 'recovered' the different options of metanephric differentiation. clear cells show evidence of maturation toward proximal type, while basophilic cells do not. it would be of interest to evaluate the usefulness of serum measurements of villin and/or calla as markers in clear cell-type rcc.
insulinoma after streptozotocin therapy for metastatic gastrinoma: natural history or iatrogenic complication? islet cell carcinoma frequently produces more than one chemical product, although its clinical expression is usually restricted to a single hormone. we describe an unusual patient who presented with full-blown metastasizing gastrinoma. he was treated with cimetidine for five years and then streptozotocin therapy, which resulted in a regression in hepatomegaly and a fall in serum gastrin levels. following one year's therapy with streptozotocin, he was admitted in hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic stupor. this appears to be the first reported case of a "shift" from clinical gastrinoma to insulinoma possibly related to prolonged streptozotocin therapy.
locally recurrent endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the prostate after radical prostatectomy. endometrioid carcinoma of the prostate is considered a variant of classical prostatic ductal carcinoma. endometrioid carcinoma variant often has the unique clinical presentation of gross hematuria. the propensity of this tumor to spread within the urothelium makes local failure of curative therapy commonplace. we present 2 representative cases with a review of followup surveillance procedures and treatment options for the local recurrence once identified.
combined aortic and visceral arterial reconstruction: risks and results. the indications, morbidity, and efficacy of combined reconstruction of the abdominal aorta and visceral arteries (renal and superior mesenteric; excluding suprarenal aortic aneurysms) were analyzed retrospectively in 29 consecutive patients who underwent surgery from june 1984 through february 1990. seventeen men and 12 women ages 32 to 76 years (mean, 66 years) were studied. follow-up was complete in all patients to either death or calendar year 1989 to 1990 (mean, 31.9 months; range, 2 to 66 months). all patients underwent bypass of angiographically proven severe lesions of one renal artery (19 patients), both renal arteries (8 patients), or the superior mesenteric artery and renal arteries (2 patients), in concert with synthetic distal aortic replacement for occlusive disease (10 patients) or aneurysm (19 patients). indications for renal artery repair included severe hypertension in 13 patients, ischemic renal insufficiency in 8 patients, and lesion morphology alone in 8 patients. operative mortality rate was 3 of 29 (10.3%), and each death was the result of multisystem organ failure. nonfatal complications occurred in 11 of the 26 survivors (42%), and this group differed significantly from the uncomplicated 15 patients only in having a higher mean preoperative serum creatinine (2.5 +/- 1.1 mg/dl vs 1.6 +/- 0.9 mg/dl, p = 0.04, t test). the mortality rate of patients with preoperative serum creatinine greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl, was 15.4% (2/13 patients), compared to 6.2% (1/16) in patients with creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dl. three late deaths occurred (2 stroke, 1 cancer). hypertension control improved in 64% of patients overall, and in 7 of 9 patients whose major operative indication was renovascular hypertension. renal function remained stable or improved in 12 of 15 patients (80%) with renal insufficiency, but 3 patients progressed to require dialysis. long-term graft patency was demonstrated by angiography or on duplex scan in all studied survivors (21 patients). although operative risks are clearly increased compared to less complex vascular procedures, careful patient selection and management will yield a favorable outcome in most patients with such combined lesions.
neurologic status of spina bifida patients and the orthopedic surgeon. the purpose of this paper is to review recent developments in the neurologic assessment of spina bifida patients. determination of the neurosegmental level of the lesion, recognition of spasticity and progressive paralysis, the potential for deformity, and functional expectations are described. the status of the neurologic deficit remains the most important factor in determining the myelomeningocele patient's ultimate functional abilities. accurate neurologic assessment will assist in meeting the aims of orthopedic management, which include preventing joint contracture, correcting deformity, preventing skin sores, and obtaining the best possible locomotor function.
load dependence of left ventricular diastolic pressure-volume relations during short-term coronary artery occlusion. we evaluated the effect of altered loading conditions on left ventricular (lv) diastolic pressure-volume relations during acute coronary artery occlusion that was produced by inflation of an intracoronary balloon. open-chest anesthetized dogs (n = 18) were instrumented so that lv pressure (micromanometer) and lv volume (conductance) could be measured without disturbing the pericardium. the effects of brief periods of occlusion (1-2 minutes) were assessed under steady-state conditions before and after dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent and during vena caval occlusion. under steady-state conditions before dextran infusion with the pericardium removed, at an lv end-diastolic pressure (edp) of 8.4 +/- 1.4 mm hg, occlusion resulted in a rightward shift in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop (delta lvedp, 2.7 +/- 2.3 mm hg; delta lvedv, 6.3 +/- 4.7 ml, both p less than 0.05 versus control). after dextran infusion (lvedp, 20.9 +/- 6.0 mm hg), occlusion resulted in a rightward and upward shift in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop (delta lvedp, 5.8 +/- 4.4 mm hg; delta lvedv, 4.2 +/- 3.0 ml, both p less than 0.05 versus control). at low cardiac volumes before dextran infusion, the intact pericardium did not affect the response to occlusion. by contrast, after dextran infusion in the presence of an intact pericardium, lvedp significantly increased (delta, 6.4 +/- 3.6 mm hg, p less than 0.05) but lvdev did not (delta, 0.7 +/- 1.5 ml, p = ns). there was a parallel upward shift in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop that was eliminated by removal of the pericardium. thus, the change in lv diastolic pressure and volume during occlusion varied and depended on the baseline cardiac volume and presence of the pericardium. before dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent, coronary artery occlusion did not alter the lv diastolic chamber stiffness parameter, which was calculated from the diastolic interval of an averaged steady-state beat (0.040 +/- 0.019 versus 0.036 +/- 0.015 mm hg/ml, p = ns). after dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent, coronary artery occlusion increased the lv diastolic chamber stiffness parameter (0.057 +/- 0.034 and 0.074 +/- 0.034 mm hg/ml, both p less than 0.05 versus controls, respectively). vena caval occlusion eliminated the shifts in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop with the pericardium present and absent.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
dissection of the aorta and dissecting aortic aneurysms. improving early and long-term surgical results. we report the improving surgical results in a consecutive series of 690 patients referred to one of us (e.s.c.) for aortic dissection between december 1956 and september 1989, a substantial portion of whom had dissection as a complication of either previous aortic (n = 113, 16) or previous cardiac (n = 54, 8%) operation. our initial operation of choice in patients requiring multiple operations in this group of 690 patients was based on the most life-threatening or symptomatic aortic segment involved, which was ascending aorta and/or aortic arch (asc/arch) in 301 (44%) patients, descending thoracic aorta (desc) in 195 (28%) patients, and thoracoabdominal aorta (taa) in 194 (28%) patients. as detailed below, considerable improvement occurred in the 30-day survival rates over time, particularly for acute dissection: [table; see text] the independent determinants of both early and long-term mortality were identified. independent determinants of late fatal rupture, reoperation, and neuromuscular dysfunction for distal dissectors were also identified. in our experience, continued aggressive surgical intervention for aortic dissection with modern operative techniques has resulted in markedly improved 30-day operative survival (approaching 95% including those patients with acute dissection) and significant improvement in late results.
intra-arterial urokinase as the initial therapy for acutely ischemic lower limbs acute ischemia of the lower limb remains a significant risk to both life and limb. mortality rates of approximately 10-30% and amputation rates of the same magnitude in the survivors are repeatedly reported despite advances in medical and surgical techniques. our experience, which utilized percutaneous intra-arterial thrombolysis as the initial treatment in 72 instances (63 patients), has resulted in a markedly lower mortality rate of 1.6% and a lower amputation rate of 8.5% in the survivors. careful categorization by clinical degree of ischemia indicates that 82% of the cases were either threatened or irreversible limb ischemia. the initial treatment with thrombolysis did not preclude subsequent prompt surgical treatment when necessary; in these cases, thrombolysis promoted improved surgical results (100%) when it was successful. it markedly reduced the need for urgent surgery, usually simplified the subsequent surgical approach, diminished the overall need for surgery, and often accomplished a successful outcome alone (31%). significant bleeding was not noted during subsequent surgical procedures and was noted in only 2.8% of the cases. confirmation of these results and further improvements in technique might justify the use of an initially high-dose urokinase transcatheter infusion regimen as the initial treatment of choice for acute lower-limb ischemia.
a gene in the human major histocompatibility complex class ii region controlling the class i antigen presentation pathway major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i molecules export peptides to the cell surface for surveillance by cytotoxic t lymphocytes. intracellular peptide binding is critical for the proper assembly and transport of class i molecules. this mechanism is impaired as a result of a non-functional peptide supply factor gene (psf) in several human mutant cell lines with genomic lesions in the mhc. we have now identified psf in the mhc class ii region by deletion mapping in mutants and chromosome-walking. psf is homologous to mammalian and bacterial atp-dependent transport proteins, suggesting that it operates in the intracellular transport of peptides.
evaluation of ventilating tubes and myringotomy in the treatment of recurrent or persistent otitis media in a prospective controlled study of the efficacy and sequelae of ventilating tubes, 44 children with bilateral recurrent acute otitis media (greater than 6 episodes/year) and 13 children with bilateral persistent middle ear effusion (greater than 3 months) received unilateral ventilating tube insertion in a randomly selected ear. the contralateral ears were randomized to receive either myringotomy alone or no surgery. clinical, otoscopic, tympanometric and audiologic examinations were performed before the study and 2 to 4 weeks later, then at 3-month intervals for up to 2 years and at 36 months after surgical randomization. medical therapy and antibiotic prophylaxis were used whenever indicated. while the ventilating tubes remained functional (mean duration, 10 months) the ears with a tube had significantly fewer episodes of otitis media than their contralateral ear (p less than 0.001; 95% confidence intervals -0.7, -1.7) and had more hearing improvement (p = 0.005; 95% confidence intervals, -5.9, -1.2). after tube extrusion there was a tendency for surgically treated ears to have more otitis and worse hearing, but not at a significant level. tympanosclerosis, retraction and atrophy were more common in ears that received tubes. the majority of ears treated medically also improved. there is need for a more cautious and selective use of ventilating tubes.
effectiveness of high-dose mcnu therapy and hematopoietic stem cell autografts treatment of childhood acute leukemia/lymphoma with high-risk features. clinical and pharmacokinetic studies were performed regarding the toxicity of methyl 6-[3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosoureido]-6-deoxy-alpha-d-glucopyranoside (mcnu) with other drugs, in conjunction with a peripheral blood stem cell autograft (pbsct), for treating 26 children with acute leukemia or lymphoma associated with high-risk features. in the early phase of the study, mcnu (300 to 500 mg/m2) was administered with cytosine arabinoside (ara-c) (1.6 to 16 g/m2), etoposide (vp-16) (0.8 to 1.6 g/m2), cyclophosphamide (cy) (100 to 200 mg/kg), or busulfan (16 mg/kg). no acute toxicity was noticed after this high-dose therapy. the dose-limiting factor of the regimens was significant but reversible interstitial pneumonitis (ip). in a subsequent trial with an mcnu/vp-16/ara-c/cy (mcvac) regimen in which the dose of mcnu was reduced, the risk of ip diminished. this study is still in progress, but the clinical response has so far been encouraging. fifteen of 26 children are alive and well in unmaintained complete remission (cr) with a median follow-up period of 11 months (range, 3 to 34 months) after transplantation. this mcnu-based regimen without total body irradiation (tbi) is especially important in children to avoid the serious sequelae of irradiation. our results justify a broader clinical trial to evaluate the effects of the mcvac regimen followed by pbsct.
differentiated thyroid carcinomas in children and adolescents. an analysis of differentiated thyroid carcinomas in children and adolescents revealed that the incidence was 3.05% of total number of patients with differentiated thyroid cancers in all age groups. there was a female preponderance. the incidence of papillary, follicular and papillary with follicular elements was equal. there were no papillary carcinomas observed in children younger than 10 years. the predominant mode of presentation was a solitary nodule of thyroid and some of them had associated cervical adenopathy. a considerable number presented with only cervical adenopathy. the incidence of nodal metastases was 50% at time of presentation and lung involvement was present in 15% of children at the time of diagnosis. radioiodine treatment was given in 70% of children. ablation was achieved in 86% of patients given two doses of radioiodine (200 millicuries). the more resistant cases were those with lung and nodal metastases. there was complete ablation in 100% with only residual thyroid tissue, 83% in those with associated nodal metastases, and 57% in those with lung involvement. average duration of follow-up was 10.3 years (range, 2 to 19 years). recurrence rate or relapse was observed in 8.5% and was in the regional nodes. there was no recorded mortality due to the disease.
ocular motor abnormalities from head trauma. head injuries cause the hospitalization of 200-300 persons per 100,000 population per year. ophthalmologists provide diagnostic and therapeutic care to those trauma victims with damage to the globe, optic nerve, orbit, and ocular motor system. eye movements can be affected by damage at any level of the central nervous system or peripheral motor unit. comprehensive ocular motor assessment of the trauma patient can substantially contribute to the understanding of the patient's injury, recovery, and rehabilitation. this review examines all aspects of head and face trauma that can lead to ocular motility disturbances.
muscle involvement in the scleroderma syndromes. muscle involvement was identified in 14 patients with scleroderma or a connective tissue disease overlap syndrome with predominant features of scleroderma. patients presented with symmetrical proximal weakness indistinguishable from other inflammatory myopathies. creatine kinase and electromyography were useful to demonstrate muscle involvement. muscle histopathology demonstrated primarily the vasculopathy of scleroderma or polymyositis in similar numbers of patients. scleroderma vasculopathy and polymyositis generally occur without specificity to diffuse scleroderma, the calcinosis, raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, telangiectasia syndrome, or an overlap syndrome with arthritis. polymyositis also occurs when the vasculopathy of scleroderma involves other organ systems.
randomized phase ii evaluation of carboplatin and chip in advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium. the eastern cooperative oncology group. a total of 83 patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma who had previously received no systemic therapy entered a randomized phase ii evaluation of carboplatin and cis-dichloro-transdihydroxy-bis-isopropylamine platinum iv (chip), administered respectively at 400 and 270 mg./m.2 every 28 days. among evaluable patients with measurable disease response rates were 3 of 22 (14%, 95% confidence interval 5 to 35%) for carboplatin and 4 of 25 (16%, 95% confidence interval 5 to 36%) for chip. among 17 patients with evaluable but not measurable metastases (10 carboplatin and 7 chip recipients) there were no responses. median survival for 64 evaluable patients was 4.8 months (5.0 months for carboplatin and 4.3 months for chip recipients). independent factors prognostic for survival (p less than 0.01) were performance status (0 or 1 versus 2 or 3), liver metastases, prior radiation therapy and recent weight loss (p = 0.02). multivariate analysis confirmed that a performance status of 2 or 3 and liver metastases were predictive of shorter survival. a total of 31% of the patients treated with carboplatin and 34% of those who received chip experienced severe or life-threatening myelosuppression. while the response rates with carboplatin and chip are modest, we believe that the characteristics of these agents indicate that they should be evaluated further.
analysis of brain and cerebrospinal fluid volumes with mr imaging: impact on pet data correction for atrophy. part ii. aging and alzheimer dementia a new, computerized segmentation technique, in which magnetic resonance (mr) imaging produces accurate volumetric measurements of brain and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) without the limitations of computed tomography, was used in a retrospective analysis of digitized t2-weighted mr images of 16 healthy elderly control subjects and 16 patients with alzheimer dementia. ventricular and extraventricular csf was quantified, and the effects of aging were studied; in both groups, the atrophy measurement was used to correct metabolic values obtained with positron emission tomography. patients with alzheimer dementia had higher total csf; extraventricular, total ventricular, and third ventricular csf volumes (49%, 37%, 99%, and 74%, respectively); and 7% lower brain volumes than the control group. the patients also showed a more marked decline in brain volumes and a greater increase in csf volumes with advancing age than the control group. they had a 25.0% increase in corrected whole-brain metabolic rates; the control group had only a 15.8% increase. the use of this technique may provide a basis for further studies of aging and dementia, including regional volume analysis.
effect of prostaglandin e in multiple experimental models: v. effect on tumor/host interaction. prostaglandin e (pge) has long been incriminated as a cause of the immunosuppression seen in cancer patients and for the increased rates of tumor growth due to the impairment of the immunologic response to the tumor. we have investigated the effect of pge on tumor-host interaction by utilizing a parenterally administered long-acting pge derivative, 16,16-dimethyl-prostaglandin e (dpge). administration of dpge was found to decrease the rate of tumor growth but at a cost of decreasing tumor-free body mass. the dpge did not alter resting metabolic rates but did alter some parts of brain dopamine metabolism and significantly decreased the serum level of multiple amino acids. in conclusion, elevated pge levels may significantly alter metabolism in tumor patients.
auditory brain stem implant: effect of tumor size and preoperative hearing level on function. the auditory brain stem implant is an investigational device designed to provide hearing sensations to patients without functioning auditory nerves. we analyzed results from 17 implants in 15 patients to determine if tumor size or preoperative hearing level might be related to proper device function. we found no significant correlation between preoperative hearing level or tumor size and device function. we also found no significant correlation between preoperative hearing level and tumor size in these 15 patients.
prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass for intermittent claudication. there is no consensus about the most appropriate management of the patient with intermittent claudication due to a superficial femoral artery occlusion. to evaluate the natural history of prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal (akfp) bypass, 200 operations for intermittent claudication were reviewed. one hundred akfp bypasses were done with ptfe and 100 with dacron. in the 30 day postoperative period, four ptfe and three dacron grafts occluded without consequence and only one patient died. analysis of results by the life-table method demonstrated statistically similar primary graft patency rates at five years (ptfe 65% se +/- 6.5, dacron 57% +/- 6.2) and ten years (ptfe 31% +/- 18/9, dacron 32% +/- 13.2) (p greater than 0.10). redo procedures (e.g., thrombectomy, angioplasty) were necessary on 21 grafts (12 ptfe, 9 dacron) and "secondary" patency rates at five years were 76% ptfe and 62% dacron; no grafts which required a redo procedure were patent at ten year follow-up. major amputations during ten year follow-up were necessary in 16 (8%) patients; all amputations were in diabetic patients. survival rates were 79% at five and 42% at ten years. an anticipated, the leading cause of death was cardiac related (25 patients); 28 (14%) patients underwent aortocoronary bypass during follow-up. a prosthetic akfp bypass graft is a safe and durable operation which provides relief from the symptoms of intermittent claudication while allowing for the preservation of the saphenous vein for use later in the coronary or infrapopliteal circulations, should the need arise. these results indicate that the risk of amputation after akfp is no greater than the natural history of untreated claudication; however, akfp offers a significant improvement in life-style.
alcoholic liver disease. alcoholic liver disease presents a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from mild asymptomatic fatty liver to alcoholic hepatitis and severe life-threatening liver failure with ascites, hemorrhaging esophageal varices, and encephalopathy. although still poorly understood, the mechanism of this injury is probably the result of numerous direct toxic and metabolic effects of alcohol on the hepatocyte. therapy consists primarily of abstinence and supportive care. however, several newer treatments are actively being studied. these include prednisolone, anabolic steroids, glucagon and insulin, propylthiouracil, and cyanidanol. colchicine is promising as an agent to inhibit fibrosis. complications of cirrhosis, including ascites and variceal hemorrhage, are the result of end stage disease. a return to old techniques of ascitic fluid management suggests that therapeutic large-volume paracentesis with albumin infusion is a safe and effective form of therapy. variceal hemorrhage is best treated with sclerotherapy, vasoconstrictors, and balloon tamponade. little has been done to alter the ultimately dismal prognosis and long-term survival of alcoholic liver disease.
intravesical condyloma acuminatum with progression to verrucous carcinoma. condyloma acuminatum is a common form of venereal disease. most patients with condylomata acuminata suffer from only the local cosmetic and irritative effects of the lesions. few patients have progression to aggressive, regionally distributed lesions that can be life-threatening. we describe a forty-three-year-old white woman who had a seventeen-year history of scleroderma with extravesical and intravesical condylomata acuminata. during two years of conservative management with transurethral excision, electrocoagulation, and intravesical chemotherapy, the disease progressed to involve the entire bladder and resulted in obstructive renal insufficiency that required anterior exenteration and urinary diversion. the natural history of the disease is described, and the relevant literature is reviewed.
malignant thymoma presenting as intracardiac tumor and superior vena caval obstruction. a case of malignant thymoma with intracardiac infiltration and intrinsic superior vena caval obstruction due to the tumor is reported. intracardiac invasion by a thymoma is rare and for this reason is believed worthy of a report.
tracheoplasty for congenital long-segment intrathoracic tracheal stenosis. congenital long-segment intrathoracic tracheal stenosis (cts) is a rare life-threatening obstruction in infancy and childhood. from july 1983 to march 1988 six infants aged 14 days to 14 months with cts were identified. symptoms ranged from recurrent stridor and wheezing to severe respiratory compromise and hypercarbia. routine chest x-rays were not diagnostic. definitive diagnosis was made by bronchoscopy, which showed complete tracheal rings in all patients with severely compromised tracheobronchial lumens. in three patients, pericardium was successfully used for anterior tracheoplasty with one early death due to fulminant sepsis in an infant with undiagnosed sickle cell disease. the other two died late, at 3 and 9 months from problems unrelated to the repair. in three patients a rib graft was used for repair; in one, tracheoplasty was required after earlier repair of tetralogy of fallot. all are late survivors with no postoperative symptoms. after recognition of cts, prompt surgery is warranted to avoid the late complications of tracheostomy for long-term ventilatory support. rigid repair with rib cartilage is preferable to use of pericardium. proper rib harvesting with intact perichondrium, intraoperative bronchoscopy, oxygenation by cardiopulmonary bypass, and meticulous graft alignment are necessary for successful postoperative outcome.
hydrocephalus: overdrainage by ventricular shunts. a review and recommendations. selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma, craniosynostosis, slit ventricle syndrome, and low intracranial pressure syndrome. these occur sequentially at different age groups, but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10%-12% for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting. the basic etiology, diagnosis, and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed, including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control. included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus.
malnutrition and carbohydrate malabsorption in children with vertically transmitted human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection. the nutritional needs of children with human immunodeficiency virus infection are poorly understood. twenty-eight children with vertically transmitted human immunodeficiency virus infection were evaluated for carbohydrate malabsorption using lactose hydrogen breath tests and d-xylose absorption studies. lactose malabsorption was a common finding in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children and occurred in 8 of 20 patients who had no identifiable enteric pathogen. lactose malabsorption occurred at an earlier age in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children than in an age-matched group of 45 symptomatic control children (p = 0.02). however, lactose malabsorption was not associated with higher rates of diarrhea or growth failure. abnormalities in d-xylose absorption were not significantly associated with either diarrhea or growth failure. however, 39% of d-xylose studies (9 of 23) showed abnormal results and were significantly associated with enteric infections (p = 0.004). abnormalities in small-bowel morphology were found in 4 of 9 children with growth failure, 3 of whom had an enteric infection and low d-xylose absorption. lactose hydrogen breath testing and d-xylose testing showed carbohydrate malabsorption in 61% of children (17 of 28). this study demonstrates that human immunodeficiency virus-infected children are at risk for malabsorptive disorders, which are not always related to clinical symptoms. we speculate that human immunodeficiency virus may be directly involved in the development of lactose malabsorption. carbohydrate malabsorption in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children may not be the only factor responsible for growth failure.
renal carcinoma in a solitary kidney. we studied the clinical and pathological features of 26 patients with renal carcinoma of a solitary kidney, including 6 treated at this hospital. four patients had a contracted kidney and 22 had previously undergone nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy was performed in 16 patients, enucleation of the tumour in 5 and radical nephrectomy in 5 because of the size of the tumour. ex vivo surgery was carried out in 4 patients. the duration of ischaemia ranged from 15 to 365 min but was longer in those who underwent ex vivo surgery (149 to 365 min). of the 21 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy or enucleation, the serum creatinine level increased (greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl) post-operatively in 16 patients, of whom 9 required temporary haemodialysis. no recurrence has been noted in those who underwent partial nephrectomy, but 1 patient who underwent enucleation of the tumour developed a solitary pancreatic metastasis 2 years 6 months after surgery and was treated by a partial pancreatectomy. kidney-preserving surgical procedures are considered to improve the quality of life, but careful follow-up is necessary.
a strategy to reduce infant mortality. using maternal mortality reviews as an historic model, fetal and infant mortality reviews are proposed to reduce infant mortality in the united states. the national program has three elements: 1) guidelines and direction from a national multidisciplinary steering panel and staff, 2) a technical advisory capacity to translate guidelines and to work with local and regional review committees, and 3) local review committees. a special emphasis, lacking in the limited efforts of previous infant mortality reviews, would be given to fetal mortality. the plan proposes a broad classification of potential contributing causes of mortality, from those related strictly to medical care, to the health system, and to individual patient factors. this will allow different and more effective targeted responses to factors identified locally. critical impetus will be gained with the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists leading the effort from the private medical sector in partnership with national, state, and local public health agencies and other national medical societies.
terminal cancer care and patients' preference for place of death: a prospective study. objective--to assess the preference of terminally ill patients with cancer for their place of final care. design--prospective study of randomly selected patients with cancer from hospital and the community who were expected to die within a year. patients expected to live less than two months were interviewed at two week intervals; otherwise patients were interviewed monthly. their main carer was interviewed three months after the patient's death. setting--district general hospital, hospices, and patients' homes. main outcome measure--stated preferred place of final care; actual place of death; reason for final hospital admission for those in hospital; community care provision required for home care. results--of 98 patients approached, 84 (86%) agreed to be interviewed, of whom 70 (83%) died during the study and 59 (84%) stated a preferred place of final care: 34 (58%) wished to die at home given existing circumstances, 12 (20%) in hospital, 12 (20%) in a hospice, and one (2%) elsewhere. their own home was the preferred place of care for 17 (94%) of the patients who died there, whereas of the 32 patients who died in hospital 22 (69%) had stated a preference to die elsewhere. had circumstances been more favourable 67% (41) of patients would have preferred to die at home, 16% (10) in hospital, and 15% (9) in hospice. conclusion--with a limited increase in community care 50% more patients with cancer could be supported to die at home, as they and their carers would prefer.
surgical indication and significance of portal vein resection in biliary and pancreatic cancer. tumor and vascular resection was carried out in 27 patients with biliary and pancreatic cancer. vascular resection included resection and reconstruction of the both the portal vein and hepatic artery in two of the patients. portal vein resection only was carried out in 23 patients, and resection of the side wall and plasty of the portal vein was carried out in the other two patients. the technical limit of portal vein resection without graft was 4 cm in the hepatic hilus and 7 cm after total pancreatectomy or pancreatoduodenectomy without grafts. on temporary occlusion of the portal vein between resection and reconstruction, simple occlusion was sufficient if it occurred within 30 minutes. in occlusion of more than 30 minutes, simultaneous occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery is better to prevent congestion of the intestine. if occlusion of more than 60 minutes is anticipated, a bypass between the superior mesenteric vein and the femoral vein with anthron tube is recommended. the postoperative course was uneventful in 20 of the 27 patients. two patients died within 1 month after surgery. the mortality rate for this aggressive surgery was 8.4%. minor complications such as hydrothorax, small bile leakage, and localized abscess were observed but soon subsided in five patients. fourteen of 27 patients survived or are alive after more than 1 year, and 9 of 14 patients survived or are alive after 2 years. forty-seven percent of the patients who had no lymph node metastasis or peritumor lymph node metastasis without cancerous invasion of the portal vein intima survived more than 2 years. the longest length of survival of a patient with nonfunctioning islet cell carcinoma of the pancreatic head was 5 years 9 months. the longest surviving patient with ductal cell carcinoma of the pancreas is still living after 4 years. this approach is recommended in certain patients with vascular involvement but without lymph node metastasis or those patients with only peritumor lymph node involvement. frozen section of mesenteric and paraaortic nodes should be standard practice before this aggressive resection.
wound infection following early repeat sternotomy for postoperative bleeding. an experience utilizing intraoperative irrigation with povidone iodine. a prospective observational study of median sternotomy wound infection was carried out in two consecutive groups of unselected patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy for postoperative haemorrhage. in group a the pericardial cavity and sternotomy wound layers were irrigated with aqueous povidone iodine prior to repeat closure, while group b did not receive povidone iodine. no median sternotomy infections were recorded in group a compared to 5 cases in group b (0 out of 22 vs 5 out of 21 patients, p less than 0.05). amongst the patients with wound infection, three developed sternal dehiscence and mediastinitis with one death. the data suggests that povidone iodine irrigation may be effective in reducing wound infection in patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy after cardiac surgery.
early diagnosis of breast cancer. universal screening is essential. breast cancer strikes 1 in 10 women in the united states. early diagnosis of breast cancer improves chances of survival. with universal screening and expert evaluation of early clinical signs and symptoms of breast cancer, mortality rates can be reduced by 30% to 40%. physicians can help achieve this goal by taking an active role in patient education and promoting the availability of affordable screening mammography.
long-term effect of dopaminergic drugs in restless legs. a 2-year follow-up. thirty patients with restless legs syndrome, who initially had all responded well to treatment with levodopa and benserazide, were studied as to the long-term effect of the drugs (at least 2 years). during the 2-year period, two patients were switched from levodopa to bromocriptine. two patients no longer needed levodopa; one of them had developed paraplegia and in the other the symptoms of restless legs syndrome had disappeared completely. the remaining 26 patients continued to use levodopa. eight patients maintained the original dose, nine had to use an increased dose, and nine found a decreased dose to be sufficient. the only side effect was transient nausea reported by two of the 30 patients. the study showed that the relief of symptoms of restless legs syndrome by dopaminergic drugs does not wear off with the passage of time, that side effects are minimal even with long-term use, and that the dose needed to obtain relief may increase as well as decrease.
new primary basal cell carcinomas arising in skin flaps following mohs micrographic surgery for primary and recurrent basal cell carcinoma. two patients developed new primary basal cell carcinomas (bccs) in skin flaps used to reconstruct wounds that followed an earlier primary bcc and a recurrent bcc treated by mohs micrographic surgery. criteria for distinguishing a new primary bcc arising in a skin flap or full-thickness skin graft at a previous treatment site for bcc from a truly recurrent bcc are presented. the distinction between a new primary bcc and true tumor recurrence is important for accurate clinical assessment and may have a dramatic impact on the type of subsequent treatment. in addition, there may be less medicolegal liability in the case of a new primary bcc arising at the site of a previously treated bcc than for a bcc that is determined to be recurrent.
collagen metabolism in gynecologic patients: changes in the concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen in serum. we have previously found the serum concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen, an indicator of collagen metabolism, to be increased in advanced ovarian cancer. in this study we measured the serum aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen concentration in healthy women during the menstrual cycle and in patients with salpingo-oophoritis, leiomyomas, endometriosis, and benign ovarian tumors. the concentration was higher in the luteal phase than that in the follicular phase, suggesting an association of collagen metabolism with ovarian steroid hormones. severe salpingo-oophoritis increased the serum level of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen with a decrease to normal during recovery. elevated values were occasionally seen in endometriosis and leiomyomas. these findings indicate that the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen is a relatively unspecific indicator of ovarian carcinoma.
pharyngeal adenocarcinoma with intestinal features. a high grade adenocarcinoma arising primarily in the pharynx of a 67-year-old man is presented. a ct-scan revealed a tumour mass growing in the pharynx, largely affecting parapharyngeal soft tissues. lymph node metastases were found at clinical presentation. both morphological and immunohistochemical studies displayed similar features to those of intestinal origin. to our knowledge, no previous examples of such neoplasm have been reported at this site. its possible histogenetical origin is discussed.
the evolving pattern of digoxin intoxication: observations at a large urban hospital from 1980 to 1988. digoxin intoxication has been reported to be a common adverse drug reaction with an in-hospital incidence of 6% to 23% and an associated mortality rate as high as 41%. a retrospective review was conducted to assess the accuracy of diagnosis, the morbidity and mortality of digoxin intoxication, and its incidence in hospitalized patients with heart failure. we reviewed the medical records of 219 patients discharged with the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication between 1980 and 1988. patients were classified as follows: (1) definite intoxication--patients with symptoms and/or arrhythmias suggestive of digoxin intoxication that resolved after discontinuation of digoxin; (2) possible intoxication--patients with symptoms and/or arrhythmias suggestive of digoxin intoxication in the absence of documented resolution after discontinuation of digoxin, or the presence of other clinical illnesses that could possibly account for those findings; (3) no intoxication--patients whose symptoms or ecg abnormalities were clearly explained by other associated clinical illnesses and persisted after withdrawal of digoxin. we identified only 43 patients (20%) with definite intoxication. the majority of patients discharged with the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication (133 or 60%) were classified as possibly digoxin intoxicated, and 43 patients (20%) had no clinical evidence to support this diagnosis. to estimate the incidence of digoxin intoxication, we also reviewed the medical records of 994 patients admitted in 1987 with heart failure. of these, 563 were receiving digoxin and in 27 the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication was made by their clinicians. our review showed that only four were definitely intoxicated (0.8%), and the diagnosis could not be excluded in another 16 (4%).
normal and abnormal pituitary glands: gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging. dynamic magnetic resonance (mr) imaging with a 1.5-t superconductive unit was used in the evaluation of nine normal pituitary glands and 10 pituitary adenomas, including four microadenomas and six macroadenomas. seven to 10 images were obtained every 20-30 seconds with use of the spin-echo technique after rapid injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine. the earliest contrast material enhancement of normal structures was seen in the infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary gland at 20 seconds, followed by gradual contrast material enhancement of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland from the junction of the infundibulum to the peripheral portion of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland within 80 seconds after gadopentetate dimeglumine injection. the peak enhancement of pituitary adenomas occurred at 60-200 seconds, usually after the most marked enhancement of the normal pituitary gland. microadenomas are best visualized at earlier phases of gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced dynamic imaging, with signal intensity lower than that seen on images of normal pituitary glands.
laryngomalacia in children. two hundred three (68 percent) of 297 children with laryngomalacia had associated respiratory disorders by flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy (ffb). associated disorders included congenital respiratory anomalies, a variety of anatomic obstructions of the upper and lower airways, and aspiration disorders. mean age for isolated laryngomalacia (type 1) was 11.5 weeks (range, 5 weeks to 4 months) while children with laryngomalacia and associated respiratory disorders (type 2) had a mean age of 9.06 years (range, 6 weeks to 18 years). we conclude the following: (1) complete evaluation of the pediatric airways (bronchoscopy) is recommended in every symptomatic child with diagnosis of laryngomalacia confirmed by laryngoscopy; (2) type 1 laryngomalacia was more common in early infancy while type 2 laryngomalacia was associated with older age; (3) although type 2 laryngomalacia is the most common endoscopic diagnosis in our experience, the majority of cases were associated with lower airway dysfunction.
isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly: an epidemiologic review. isolated systolic hypertension (ish) is usually defined as a systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm hg and diastolic blood pressure less than 90 or 95 mm hg. systolic blood pressure has been found to increase with age in most populations studied and thus the prevalence of ish can be expected to increase with age. ish is more prevalent in elderly women than in elderly men. estimates of the prevalence of ish vary according to its definition and the number of blood pressure measurements. there is evidence that the prevalence of ish is decreasing. results of a survey of the prevalence of ish in 11 countries are presented; the estimates among men aged 60 to 69 years ranged from 1% in israel to 24% in norway. only a prospective standardized survey conducted in several countries will reveal the true prevalence of ish.
rapid and correct diagnosis of myocardial infarction: standardized case history and clinical examination provide important information for correct referral to monitored beds. the value of thorough examination of the case history as a diagnostic tool on hospitalization of patients with suspected myocardial infarction was investigated in three independent prospective studies. use of a limited number of pain-related elements (= 'criteria'), that had already been obtained in the emergency room, could improve the decision on whether or not to admit patients to the coronary-care unit. as an example, in one of the studies, use of such criteria would have reduced the number of 'unnecessary' coronary-care-unit admissions from 298 to 162, a 46% reduction (p less than 0.001). in the same patient sample, use of the criteria could have reduced the number of patients with definite acute myocardial infarction, admitted to the general wards, from 47 to 22, a 53% reduction (p less than 0.01). these favourable results were confirmed in the two independent, smaller-scale studies.
occupational exposure and head and neck carcinoma. an epidemiological case-control study was conducted to investigate occupational risk factors in cancers of the upper respiratory and digestive tract. cases were men with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx (667), hypopharynx (348), glottis (246), supraglottis (219), epilarynx (204), and 4 subsites of the oral cavity (787). controls were healthy patients or patients with cancer of another site or another histological type (147 men). past occupational exposures of cases and controls were compared. the analysis was performed independently for each site of cancer, controlling for age, amount and type of alcohol and tobacco consumption, and state of dentition. results showed that cancer of the supraglottis was associated with exposure to oil and grease (odds ratio = 2.4; 95% confidence interval 1.0-5.8), and with exposure to cement (odds ratio = 4.2; 95% confidence interval = 1.1-16.4). cancer of the glottis was also associated with exposure to dye (odds ratio = 6.4; 95% confidence interval = 0.7-56.6). exposure to flour occurred more frequently among controls than among patients with pharyngeal or oral cancer. this might reflect an association between this occupational exposure and some particular types of cancer included in the control group.
comparison of continuous subcutaneous and intravenous hydromorphone infusions for management of cancer pain. to compare the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous and intravenous infusion of opioid analgesics, a randomised, double-blind, crossover trial was carried out in inpatients. 15 patients with severe cancer pain received two 48 h infusions of hydromorphone--one subcutaneously and one intravenously in randomly allocated order. the study was made double-blind by the use of two infusion pumps throughout; during the active subcutaneous infusion the intravenous pump delivered saline and vice versa. serial measurements of pain intensity, pain relief, mood, and sedation by means of visual analogue scales showed no clinically or statistically significant difference between the two infusion routes. side-effects were slight, and the mean number of morphine injections for breakthrough pain did not differ significantly between the routes (4.8 [sd 4.5] for intravenous vs 5.3 [5.6] for subcutaneous). plasma hydromorphone concentrations measured at 24 h and 48 h of infusion showed stable steady-state pharmacokinetics; the mean bioavailability from subcutaneous infusion was 78% of that with intravenous infusion. because of the simplicity, technical advantages, and cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous opioid infusion into the chest wall or trunk, intravenous opioid infusion for the management of severe cancer pain should be abandoned.
should family doctors screen asymptomatic children for high blood pressure? whereas the united states task forces on blood pressure control in children have recommended annual blood pressure screening in all children, a working party of the british hypertension society has formed the opposite opinion. relevant literature is reviewed here, and the conclusion reached that on epidemiological and ethical grounds, screening children for hypertension cannot at present be justified.
a comparative trial of three agents in the treatment of acute migraine headache. study objectives: a study was conducted to evaluate the relative efficacy of three non-narcotic agents, chloropromazine, lidocaine, and dihydroergotamine, in the treatment of migraine headache in an emergency department setting. design: the trial was randomized and single blinded. setting: the study was conducted in two university-affiliated eds. type of participants: all patients had an isolated diagnosis of common or classic migraine. interventions: patients were pretreated with 500 ml (iv) normal saline before randomization. study drugs as administered were dihydroergotamine 1 mg iv repeated after 30 minutes if the initial response was inadequate; lidocaine 50 mg iv at 20-minute intervals to a maximum total dose of 150 mg as required; or chloropromazine 12.5 mg iv repeated at 20-minute intervals to a total maximum dose of 37.5 mg as required. patients were asked to grade headache severity on a ten-point scale before and one hour after the initiation of therapy. follow-up by phone was sought the following day. measurements and main results: of 76 patients completing the trial, 24 were randomized to receive chloropromazine, 26 to receive dihydroergotamine, and 26 to receive lidocaine. reduction in mean headache intensity was significantly better among those treated with chloropromazine (p less than .005). persistent headache relief was experienced by 16 of the chloropromazine-treated patients (88.9%) contacted at 12 to 24 hours follow-up compared with ten of the dihydroergotamine-treated patients (52.6%) and five of the lidocaine-treated group (29.4%). conclusion: the relative effectiveness of these three antimigraine therapies appears to favor chloropromazine in measures of headache relief, incidence of headache rebound, and patient satisfaction with therapy.
life table analysis of fecundity in intravenously gonadotropin-releasing hormone-treated patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea. the success of pulsatile intravenous (iv) gonadotropin-releasing hormone (gnrh) treatment in patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea was studied retrospectively using life table analysis. two hundred forty-four ovulatory cycles in 48 normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic patients were evaluated. the cumulative conception rate after 12 cycles was 93%, with a mean conception rate of 22.5% per cycle. comparing cycles 1 to 6 with cycles 7 to 12, no significant difference in conception rate was observed. subdivisions were made relative to the presence of additional infertility factors, history of weight loss, actual weight, estrogenic status, and primary versus secondary amenorrhea. the life table curves of patients either with or without other infertility factors were significantly different. no statistically significant differences were found in the other subdivisions. it is concluded that iv gnrh therapy is highly successful in patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea, especially if no other infertility factors are present.
cerebrovascular complications of inflammatory bowel disease. there is an increased incidence of central nervous system thromboembolic events in young patients with inflammatory bowel disease. a 33-yr-old woman previously diagnosed with pseudotumor cerebri suffered superior sagittal and transverse sinus thromboses during a severe flare of ulcerative colitis. these were documented on contrast computed tomographic (ct) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans. stroke may be more common in patients with ulcerative colitis than in patients with crohn's disease; arterial disease is more prevalent than venous and dural sinus disease, and is correlated with an active phase of inflammatory bowel disease. it is difficult to assess whether there is a relationship to concurrent steroid use, and a consistent relationship to duration of inflammatory bowel disease or to other extraintestinal manifestations is not apparent.
choledocholithiasis in chinese immigrants with cholelithiasis. during the period from january 1987 to december 1989, admissions for biliary tract disease at the new york infirmary--beekman downtown hospital were split almost evenly between chinese immigrants from southeast asia and all other ethnic groups (caucasian, hispanic, black, et cetera). however, the incidence of choledocholithiasis in patients undergoing cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis was much higher in the chinese immigrant population, 37.2 versus 11.8 per cent, a highly significant difference (p = 0.001). in addition, we often found the disease to be of greater severity in chinese patients. they were more likely to have large numbers of stones in the duct and more likely to have significant ductal enlargement. this increased risk was essentially constant regardless of age. because of this threefold risk of choledocholithiasis when operating on a chinese immigrant from southeast asia for cholelithiasis, intraoperative cholangiography is mandatory, even in those without other indications for common bile duct exploration.
"white coat" versus "sustained" borderline hypertension in tecumseh, michigan during a survey of young subjects not receiving treatment for hypertension in tecumseh, michigan, clinic and self-monitored blood pressures taken at home (14 readings in 7 days) were obtained in 737 subjects (387 men, 350 women, average age 31.5 years). hypertension in the clinic was diagnosed if the clinic blood pressure exceeded 140 mm hg systolic or 90 mm hg diastolic. in the absence of firm criteria for what constitutes hypertension at home, subjects whose average home blood pressure was in the upper decile of the whole population were considered to have hypertension at home. by these criteria, 7.1% of the whole population had "white coat" hypertension (i.e., high clinic but not elevated home readings). the prevalence of "sustained" hypertension (i.e., high readings in the clinic and at home) was 5.1%. subjects with white coat and sustained borderline hypertension in tecumseh were very similar. both groups showed, at previous examinations (at ages 5, 8, 21, and 23 years), significantly higher blood pressure readings than the normotensive subjects. as young adults (average age 33.3 years), the parents of both hypertensive groups had significantly higher blood pressure readings than the parents of normotensive subjects. both hypertensive groups had faster heart rates, higher systemic vascular resistance, and higher minimal forearm vascular resistance. both hypertensive groups were more overweight, had higher plasma triglycerides, insulin, and insulin/glucose ratios than normotensive subjects. the white coat hypertensive group also had lower values of high density lipoprotein than the normotensive group. white coat hypertension is a frequent condition.
experimental intracerebral hemorrhage: early removal of a spontaneous mass lesion improves late outcome. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether early removal of an experimental intracerebral mass altered cerebral blood flow, brain water content, neuropathological findings, or neurological function 24 hours later. in three experimental series, a 50-microliter balloon was inflated within the right caudate nucleus in rats. at 24 hours after inflation, we studied cerebral blood flow by quantitative autoradiography, brain specific gravity, and qualitative histopathology by light microscopy. the animals were also assessed using a simple neurological deficit scale. in each series, half of the animals had the balloon inflated for 10 minutes (group 1), and half had the balloon inflated permanently (group 2). after transient inflation, there were surprisingly small differences in the blood flow between the two cerebral hemispheres at 24 hours. by contrast, in animals with permanent inflation, several indices of blood flow were significantly worse in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the balloon: the mean and median blood flow levels in the caudate nucleus; the mean blood flow in the cerebral cortex; and the area of cortex with ischemic levels of blood flow. the specific gravity was reduced in areas surrounding the site of balloon insertion after either transient or permanent inflation, and there was evidence of ischemic cell damage in all animals studied. these changes were more severe after permanent inflation, but the differences were not significant. neurological outcome was significantly better after transient as compared with permanent inflation. the present findings contradict previous results and suggest that early removal of an intracerebral mass may have subsequent benefits.
a new method for quantification of regurgitant flow rate using color doppler flow imaging of the flow convergence region proximal to a discrete orifice. an in vitro study. while color doppler flow mapping has yielded a quick and relatively sensitive method for visualizing the turbulent jets generated in valvular insufficiency, quantification of the degree of valvular insufficiency has been limited by the dependence of visualization of turbulent jets on hemodynamic as well as instrument-related factors. color doppler flow imaging, however, does have the capability of reliably showing the spatial relations of laminar flows. an area where flow accelerates proximal to a regurgitant orifice is commonly visualized on the left ventricular side of a mitral regurgitant orifice, especially when imaging is performed with high gain and a low pulse repetition frequency. this area of flow convergence, where the flow stream narrows symmetrically, can be quantified because velocity and the flow cross-sectional area change in inverse proportion along streamlines centered at the orifice. in this study, a gravity-driven constant-flow system with five sharp-edged diaphragm orifices (ranging from 2.9 to 12 mm in diameter) was imaged both parallel and perpendicular to the direction of flow through the orifice. color doppler flow images were produced by zero shifting so that the abrupt change in display color occurred at different velocities. this "aliasing boundary" with a known velocity and a measurable radial distance from the center of the orifice was used to determine an isovelocity hemisphere such that flow rate through the orifice was calculated as 2 pi r2 x vr, where r is the radial distance from the center of the orifice to the color change and vr is the velocity at which the color change was noted. using vr values from 54 to 14 cm/sec obtained with a 3.75-mhz transducer and from 75 to 18 cm/sec obtained with a 2.5-mhz transducer, we calculated flow rates and found them to correlate with measured flow rates (r = 0.94-0.99). the slope of the regression line was closest to unity when the lowest vr and the correspondingly largest r were used in the calculation. the flow rates estimated from color doppler flow imaging could also be used in conjunction with continuous-wave doppler measurements of the maximal velocity of flow through the orifice to calculate orifice areas (r = 0.75-0.96 correlation with measured areas).
patient compliance--a factor in facial trauma repair. the clinical records of 25 consecutive patients who were treated for facial trauma were reviewed and analyzed to ascertain what effect patient cooperation had on the outcome of facial fracture repair. the study was designed to establish the incidence of complications and to discover what factors contributed to untoward sequela in such patients. overall, 15 patients (60%) were noncompliant in one or more aspects of their care. six patients (24%) had significant postoperative complications associated with their facial injuries. four of these patients were not fully cooperative.
spinal cord decompression via a modified costotransversectomy approach combined with posterior instrumentation for management of metastatic neoplasms of the thoracic spine. fifteen patients with thoracic spinal cord compression from metastatic neoplastic processes were managed by spinal canal decompression via a modified costotransversectomy approach. ten of the patients also underwent sequential posterior stabilization with luque or harrington instrumentation based upon proximity of the lesion to the thoracolumbar junction, prognosis for regaining or maintaining ambulatory ability, and additional spinal stability considerations. a modified lateral decubitus position with the scapula falling away from the side of exposure was used for t1-5 segment lesions, and a prone position was used for the (t-6)-(t-12) segment. adequate decompression of the spinal canal was achieved in all cases. all patients who were ambulating preoperatively maintained ambulatory ability, and pain and/or further neurological improvement as well occurred in 75%.
the sequelae of haemophilus influenzae meningitis in school-age children. background. previous data on the consequences of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis for school-age children have been inconsistent, and much of the information on risk factors has been inconclusive. the present study was designed to evaluate the sequelae of this disease with a protocol for the comprehensive assessment of neuropsychological function. methods. ninety-seven school-age children (mean age, 9.6 years), each of whom had a school-age sibling, were recruited from a survey of the medical records of 519 children treated for h. influenzae type b meningitis between 1972 and 1984 (at a mean age of 17 months) at the children's hospitals of toronto, ottawa, and montreal. of the 97 children, 41 had had an acute neurologic complication. sequelae were assessed by comparing the index children with their nearest siblings on the basis of standardized measures of cognitive, academic, and behavioral status. results. only 14 children (14 percent) had persisting neurologic sequelae: sensorineural hearing loss in 11 (unilateral in 6 and bilateral in 5), seizure disorder in 2, and hemiplegia and mental retardation in 1. although the total sample of index children scored slightly below the siblings in reading ability, the 56 children without acute-phase neurologic complications (58 percent) were indistinguishable from their siblings on all measures. the differences between the groups were small even for the 41 pairs in which the index child had had an acute neurologic complication (mean full-scale iq, 102 for the index children vs. 109 for the siblings). sequelae were also associated with lower socioeconomic status and a lower ratio of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid to that in blood at the time of the meningitis. behavioral problems were more prominent in index boys than index girls and in those who were older at the time of testing, but sex and age were not related to cognitive or academic sequelae. conclusions. we find a favorable prognosis for the majority of children who are treated for meningitis caused by h. influenzae type b.
effect of gastric mucus on the uptake of the carcinogen mnng by gastric mucosal dna. in prostaglandin e2 (pge2)-, pirenzepine-, and indomethacin-administered rats, the incorporation of n-[methyl-3h]-n'-nitro-n-nitrosoguanidine ([methyl-3h]mnng) into gastric mucosal dna was measured quantitatively by liquid scintillation counting after intragastric instillation of [methyl-3h]mnng. the amount of incorporation was 25.4 +/- 5.9 pmol/mg dna in control rats, 11.7 +/- 3.8 pmol/mg dna in pge2-administered rats, 6.2 +/- 5.6 pmol/mg dna in pirenzepine-administered rats, and 42.9 +/- 14.4 pmol/mg dna in indomethacin-administered rats. pge2 and pirenzepine significantly decreased the incorporation as compared with the control group. in contrast, indomethacin increased the incorporation. in addition, gastric mucosa of these drug-treated rats was studied histochemically. pge2 and pirenzepine increased secretion of gastric mucus whereas indomethacin decreased it. it is possible that gastric mucus has a protective effect not only against ulcerogenic agents but also against carcinogens. it is considered that gastric mucus plays an important role in the defense mechanism against carcinogenesis.
blood pressure level, trend, and variability in dunedin children. an 8-year study of a single birth cohort in a birth cohort of children in the dunedin multidisciplinary health and development study in new zealand, resting blood pressures were recorded biennially five times from age 7 to 15 years. using previously described methods, we examined the level, trend, and variability of blood pressures in those children with at least three readings. the level, trend, and variability of height, weight, and body mass index were compared among six separate groups of children. two groups were categorized on the basis of high systolic pressure levels, one with low variability and the other with high variability, which was thought to resemble adult labile hypertension. two additional groups were categorized on the basis of increasing and decreasing blood pressure trends; the fifth group had consistently low blood pressures, and the sixth group consisted of the remaining children. there were significant differences among the groups for the level of all the physical measurements and for the trend of body mass index. no significant differences were found among the groups for gender or socioeconomic status. a parental history of high blood pressure, stroke, or heart attack was significantly more common in the first two groups.
supported employment: an alternative model for vocational rehabilitation of persons with severe neurologic, psychiatric, or physical disability. participation in paid work in competitive industry through placement in supported employment is compared and analyzed for 278 severely disabled persons. differential outcomes are described for persons with chronic mental illness, cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury, and dual diagnosis of chronic mental illness and mental retardation. results indicated that supported employment appears to be an effective means of assisting these historically unemployable individuals to acquire and retain work. cross-disability group differences were found in areas such as hourly wages, type of employment, services provided by employment specialists, and job retention. the results represent a baseline from which to evaluate future efforts at competitive work placement for persons with severe disabilities, using the supported-employment model.
sequential magnetic resonance imaging following stereotactic radiofrequency ventralis lateralis thalamotomy. serial postoperative magnetic resonance (mr) studies were obtained in 21 patients who underwent somatotopically placed stereotactic radiofrequency (rf) ventralis lateralis thalamotomy for the control of movement disorders. the mr studies were reviewed to determine the mr characteristics of early-phase (less than or equal to 7 days) and late-phase (8 days to 5 months) lesions. surgery was performed for the control of parkinsonian tremor (14 cases), intention tremor (six cases), and essential tremor (one case). single rf lesions were made with an electrode (1.6 mm in diameter, 3 mm in tip length) heated to 78 degrees c for 60 seconds. on mr images of the lesions, three distinct concentric zones were identified, described as follows (from the center outward). zone 1 gives increased signal on long-relaxation time (tr) (t2-weighted) mr images in early- and late-phase lesions and decreased signal on short-tr (t1-weighted) mr images in early-phase lesions only. zone 2 gives decreased signal on long-tr (t2-weighted) images in early- and late-phase lesions; it gives isointense signal on short-tr (t1-weighted) images in early-phase lesions only. zone 3 gives increased signal on long-tr (t2-weighted) images in early-phase lesions only and decreased signal on short-tr (t1-weighted) mr images in early-phase lesions only. it is considered that in early-phase lesions, zone 2, with a mean diameter of 7.3 mm on axial long-tr (t2-weighted) imaging, represents an area of hemorrhagic coagulation necrosis. in late-phase lesions, zone 2, with a mean diameter of 5.0 mm on axial long-tr (t2-weighted) imaging, represents hemosiderin deposition. zone 3 likely represents edema, and this zone disappears between the early and late periods. from regression analysis, lesion size began to stabilize at approximately 7 months with a mature lesion diameter of 3.3 mm. long-term follow-up monitoring (median 16 months) showed good tremor control. based on clinical and radiological findings, the authors conclude that forms of hemoglobin are suitable markers to assess the size of rf lesions. serial mr imaging provides a noninvasive means of studying the evolution of rf thalamotomy lesions.
lymphocytic hypophysitis with involvement of the cavernous sinus and hypothalamus. two cases of lymphocytic hypophysitis are reported, in which hypothalamic involvement causing diabetes insipidus was a prominent clinical feature. in one case, a man had clinical and radiological evidence of the involvement of the cavernous sinus. this represents the second reported case of a man with lymphocytic hypophysitis. a transsphenoidal biopsy established the diagnosis in both cases. neither the involvement of the cavernous sinus nor permanent diabetes insipidus has been reported previously. a review of the literature is provided.
the reliability of frozen sections in the evaluation of surgical margins for melanoma. as the width of surgical margins declines, histologic evaluation of the margins is needed to assess the completeness of excision of a malignant melanoma. we studied 221 specimens in 59 patients and compared the interpretations of frozen and paraffin sections from the same block. frozen sections had a sensitivity of 100% in detecting melanoma when present and a specificity of 90%.
performing cytogenetic studies on ascitic, amniotic and hygroma fluid. the importance of obtaining cytogenetic studies on antenatally diagnosed structural malformations is well recognized. in two cases, three fetal compartments were sampled, each resulting in successful cytogenetic studies. fluid was obtained under ultrasound guidance from amniotic fluid, fetal ascites and cystic hygroma fluid. fluid from the hygroma itself may be the easiest compartment to analyze.
partial duplication of the face: case report and review. complete or partial facial duplication is a rare congenital malformation. a spectrum of structural abnormalities varying in degrees of severity has been described in affected individuals. we present discordance for facial duplication between monozygotic twins in which maxillary and mandibular duplication was present in one. the involved twin showed the following findings: ocular hypertelorism, bifidity of the nose, duplication of the maxilla, macrostomia, cleft of the lower lip, hamartoma of the vomer, supernumerary teeth, duplication of the mandibular teeth, bifidity of the tongue, and hamartoma of the floor of the mouth. surgical management of the facial anomalies is discussed. a review of the literature and discussion of this rare malformation are presented.
acute abdominal pain in the elderly. study objectives: to determine the incidences of both specific diagnosis and surgical diseases in patients more than 65 years old who present to the emergency department with nontraumatic abdominal pain of less than one week's duration, and to determine the ed staff's ability to diagnose and triage elderly patients with acute abdominal pain. design: a 12-month retrospective review of all elderly patients who presented to the ed with acute, nontraumatic abdominal pain. setting: a regional trauma center serving a predominately rural population in the midwest. the ed has 55,000 patient visits yearly. measurements and main results: of the 127 patients enrolled, 30 (24%) had no specific diagnosis made in the ed. biliary tract disease (12%) and small bowel obstruction (12%) were the two most common specific diagnoses. overall, 53 patients (42%) required surgery, usually during the initial hospitalization. in four cases, the postoperative diagnosis differed significantly from the ed diagnosis. of the 74 patients (58%) who did not undergo surgery, 51 had follow-up information available. in 14 patients, the follow-up diagnosis differed from the original diagnosis, but most of these changes did not appreciably alter the treatment and outcome. conclusions: the incidence of surgical disease is high in elderly patients with acute abdominal pain, and ed staff are able to diagnose and triage these patients accurately.
the influence of neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma. the influence of neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma is unknown. during the past 6 years some of the authors frequently gave protamine sulfate to neutralize heparin, whereas others did not unless a patch was used or wound hemostasis was not readily obtained. to determine the influence of protamine sulfate on stroke and wound hematoma the records of 697 patients having a carotid endarterectomy from january 1984 to september 1989 were reviewed. protamine sulfate was given to 328 patients, and 369 did not receive protamine sulfate. the incidence of stroke in the two groups was 1.8% (n = 6) and 2.7% (n = 10), respectively, and the difference was not significant (p = 0.6019). excluding three strokes that could not be related to neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin, the difference remained insignificant (1.5% vs 2.2%, p = 0.7290). the incidence of wound hematoma was 1.8% (n = 6) in patients given protamine sulfate and 6.5% (n = 24) in patients not given protamine sulfate, and this difference was significant (p = 0.0044). the difference remained significant when three hematomas not related to protamine sulfate were excluded (1.2% vs 6.2%, p = 0.0013). in patients not given protamine sulfate draining the wound lessened the incidence of wound hematoma (4.4% vs 8.6%), but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.1475). in patients given protamine sulfate the dose of protamine sulfate (15 to 45 mg vs 50 to 75 mg) had no statistically significant effect on the incidence of stroke (0.8% vs 2.0%, p = 0.6530) or wound hematoma (1.6% vs 1.0%, p = 1.000).
clinical experience implanting an inflatable penile prosthesis with controlled-expansion cylinder. ninety-four patients with erectile dysfunction underwent implantation of controlled-expansion inflatable penile prosthetic cylinders. most of these patients had aneurysmal dilatation of the corpora cavernosa after prior implantation of inflatable devices. follow-up of forty-six months has shown their efficacy to be excellent for management of primary impotence, penile straightening procedures, and revision after cylinder leaks. none of the patients has had recurrence of the primary condition that required revision.
femoral artery cannulation for monitoring in critically ill children: prospective study. seventy-seven attempted percutaneous femoral artery cannulations were prospectively evaluated in 74 children. artery cannulation was successfully accomplished in 73 (95%) cases and lasted for a mean of 6 days. sixty percent of the catheters were inserted on the first attempt. fifty-two (71%) patients weighed less than 10 kg and 55 (75%) patients were less than 12 months old. fifty-one (70%) patients received inotropic support at the time of cannulation, and 27 (37%) eventually died from causes unrelated to catheter insertion. there was one episode each of line-associated infection and transient distal ischemia not resulting in tissue loss, and two episodes of catheter malfunction. in eight (11%) patients, signs of distal vascular insufficiency developed shortly catheter placement and resolved after catheter removal. the development of this complication correlated significantly (p less than .05) with younger age (5.5 vs. 22.3 months). we conclude that femoral artery cannulation has a high degree of success in very small, critically ill children. it should be considered an acceptable alternative to small-vessel cannulation when the latter is not technically achievable, or in the unstable patient where rapid establishment of reliable arterial access is necessary.
duchenne's cardiomyopathy in a canine model: electrocardiographic and echocardiographic studies. thirteen dogs affected with x-linked duchenne's muscular dystrophy and 11 female carrier dogs were studied by electrocardiography (ecg) and echocardiography. twelve of the affected dogs were studied as immature animals and followed at 1 to 6 month intervals until they were 7 to 46 months of age. compared with control dogs, affected dogs had significantly increased (p less than 0.02) q/r ratios in ecg leads ii, iii, avf, cv6ll (v2) and cv6lu (v4). carrier dogs had significantly increased (p less than 0.02) q/r ratios in leads v2 and v4. the q/r ratio increased in three of six dogs followed up from age 6 months to greater than 2 years. the pr intervals were significantly shorter (p less than 0.02) in affected dogs. ventricular arrhythmias were identified in four of six mature affected dogs. two-dimensional echocardiography revealed distinctive hyperechoic lesions in 12 of the 13 affected dogs and in 6 of the 11 carrier dogs. hyperechoic lesions corresponded to calcified myocardium and surrounding dense connective tissue. this study establishes the dog affected with duchenne's muscular dystrophy as an animal model of duchenne's cardiomyopathy and demonstrates that the heart in carrier dogs is affected by the dystrophic process.
allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients positive for hepatitis b surface antigen. twenty patients who were positive for hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) underwent allogeneic marrow transplant for malignancy or other underlying hematologic disease between 1975 and 1986. after transplant, one patient had serologic evidence of hepatitis b virus (hbv) reactivation whereas three patients had evidence of an immune response to hbv. among four patients with serologic follow-up of 1 year or more, three remained positive for hbsag and one became hbsag negative. six patients (30%) developed clinical evidence of venocclusive disease and seven patients (35%) developed acute graft-versus-host disease involving the liver, but the incidence of these complications was similar to that expected among patients who are not carriers of hbsag. three patients died with hepatorenal failure, but all three had venocclusive disease and the contribution of hbv infection to liver failure was unclear. available liver specimens obtained at autopsy (six patients) or biopsy (two patients) all showed either hbsag (one specimen) or hepatitis b core antigen (four specimens) or both (three specimens) by immunoperoxidase staining. although hbv reactivation leading to hepatic failure has been reported among allogeneic marrow transplant recipients as well as other immunocompromised patients, we did not observe an increase in the incidence of severe liver disease after transplant among these 20 patients positive for hbsag at the time of transplant, and do not consider positivity for hbsag to be a contraindication to allogeneic marrow transplantation.
calmodulins with deletions in the central helix functionally replace the native protein in yeast cells. deletion of glu-84, glu-83 and glu-84, or ser-glu-glu-glu (residues 81-84) from the central helix of mammalian calmodulin is known to result in a 5-7 times decrease in its apparent in vitro affinities for three calmodulin-dependent enzymes. however, based on in vitro experiments, it is difficult to estimate how these deletions might affect in vivo cellular function. the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, which requires calmodulin for growth, provides an excellent system to evaluate these deletion proteins in vivo. based on its ability to restore normal growth characteristics to yeast cells, mammalian calmodulin is functionally identical to the yeast protein; herein we evaluate the effect of deleting residues 84, 83 and 84, or 81-84 from the central helix. sequences encoding the deletion proteins and an unaltered control sequence were introduced by means of a yeast shuttle vector and were expressed under control of the yeast calmodulin promoter. the deletion and control calmodulins are produced at levels similar to that observed for the yeast protein, and they completely restore normal growth characteristics. this result suggests that the regions deleted from the central helix are not critical for activation of any yeast calmodulin target normally required for cell growth or division. it is likely that there are twisting and shortening motions associated with the deletions from the central helix that alter significantly the spatial relationship between the two lobes of calmodulin. the abilities of the deletion calmodulins to restore completely normal growth characteristics to yeast cells suggest that the lobes of all the deletion proteins can still be appropriately positioned in calmodulin-target complexes. this is consistent with the hypothesis that the central helix of calmodulin is analogous to a flexible tether rather than to a rigid connector between the two lobes of the molecule.
an evolutionary perspective on salt, hypertension, and human genetic variability. natural selection for electrolyte conservation has likely been the norm throughout human evolutionary history. however, the current patterns of excessive dietary salt intake create the potential for salt overload. under these conditions, hypertension may be considered an expected pathological response to an evolutionarily new constraint. the transatlantic middle passage may have created a genetic bottleneck for salt conservation in african-americans. although the initial consequences of this important historical event probably constricted genetic variability and further magnified the potential for salt-sensitive hypertension, the middle passage undoubtedly also served as a more generalized major source of environmental stress and may have stimulated subsequent hereditary diversity in the survivors of this holocaust and their descendants. accelerated rates of mutation, genetic recombination, and transposable genetic elements in conjunction with enhanced opportunities for gene flow, new selective pressures, and drift have all contributed to the tremendous heterogeneity of contemporary african-americans. it is unlikely that a single genetic event, even of the severity of the middle passage, can account comprehensively for the apparent susceptibility of this macroethnic group to high blood pressure and hypertension.
ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle: case report. ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare. these tumors usually occur in the pineal, parasellar, or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis. we report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle. the tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach. ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor. the distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important, since ectopic retinoblastomas, unlike metastasis, can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision.
anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer. in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial, anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy (ampt, n = 77) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty (tvp, n = 69) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years. the mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years. one elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the tvp group. acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups, indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation. recurrent ulcers were more common after ampt (five) than tvp (two) (p = 0.29, n.s.). dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner (p less than 0.001) after tvp, with 31 instances as opposed to eight with ampt. the mean operating time was increased by 6 min when ampt was performed rather than tvp. the results of this study have shown that ampt is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall visick grading. however, continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure.
fetal ovarian cysts: prenatal ultrasonographic detection and postnatal evaluation and treatment. ovarian cysts were diagnosed by antenatal ultrasonographic examination in 15 fetuses between 19 and 37 weeks' gestation. in six cases there was ultrasonographic evidence of torsion. intracystic flocculation, which typically was deposited on the sloping part of the cyst, gave a characteristic liquid interface that was regarded as ultrasonographic evidence of torsion. all cases with evidence of torsion were managed surgically post partum, and in all patients this complication was confirmed. the remaining nine cases were followed up by repeated ultrasonograms, and in all patients disappearance of the cyst was documented within the first 6 months of life. the mean size of cysts with evidence of torsion was 5.41 +/- 0.25 cm, and the mean size of those without torsion was 4.33 +/- 0.3 cm (p less than 0.01). histologic examination of the surgical specimen in the cases with evidence of torsion revealed follicular cysts in three cases and necrotic ovarian cysts with no specific epithelial findings in the remaining three. we recommend continuous ultrasonographic assessment of antenatally diagnosed cysts and believe that the choice of treatment depends on the appearance of the cyst and its evolution throughout pregnancy.
protamine-heparin-induced pulmonary hypertension in pigs: effects of treatment with a thromboxane receptor antagonist on hemodynamics and coagulation. adverse hemodynamic reactions after protamine neutralization of heparin are an infrequent but important clinical problem. pre-treatment of swine with a thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist has been reported to prevent the pulmonary hypertensive response occasionally seen after protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation. in the current study, a control group of pigs (n = 9) received intravenous heparin (300 iu/kg), followed after 10 min by a neutralizing dose of protamine (3 mg/kg). a treatment group of pigs (n = 11) was treated identically, except that the thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist l-670596 (2 mg/kg) was infused intravenously 2 min after the protamine infusion. hemodynamic and coagulation profiles were monitored during these procedures. pulmonary hypertension developed and reached a peak within 2 min of protamine administration, often at the same time that l-670596 was administered in the treatment group. there was no statistical difference between control and treatment groups' peak pulmonary arterial pressure and peak pulmonary vascular resistance. however, the interval for return of mean pulmonary artery pressure from peak to baseline values was 11.6 +/- 3.1 versus 5.5 +/- 1.9 min (mean +/- sd) for control and treatment groups, respectively (p less than 0.01). thromboxane b2 plasma concentrations increased in both groups and were correlated with the pulmonary hypertensive response (r = 0.86, p less than 0.01). platelet aggregation to collagen was inhibited by the thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist (p less than 0.05). bleeding time was prolonged beyond normal range in 50% of l-670596-treated pigs. all other coagulation tests in both groups returned to baseline after reversal of heparin with protamine and were unaffected by l-670596.
helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in kuwait. two hundred and four patients, mainly arabs, attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in mubarak al-kabeer hospital, kuwait, were examined for evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation. biopsy specimens of antrum, body, and duodenum; gastric juice; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological, cytological, and histopathological methods. clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis, gastric ulcer, duodenitis and duodenal ulcer, but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae. h pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 (96.6%) of the patients. histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity, but bacteriological culture was less reliable. the proportion of positive cases was high, compared with other reported series, which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study, the selected population (all with gastrointestinal symptoms) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population.
the combination of prednisone and colchicine in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. primary sclerosing cholangitis is a cholestatic liver disease characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of the biliary tract. the cause of the disease is unknown, and no effective medical treatment exists. in this study, 12 patients received a combination of low-dose prednisone (10 mg/day) and colchicine (0.6 mg bid). their course was compared with that of a group of concurrent historical controls. at 6 and 12 months, there was significantly more improvement in liver test results over baseline values in patients receiving prednisone and colchicine than in the untreated controls. at 24 months, however, no significant differences in biochemical tests were appreciated between treated and untreated patients. analysis of serial liver biopsies showed no differences in histologic change in the two groups. during the 2 yr of follow-up, there were two deaths in the control group but none in the treated group. four untreated patients developed ascites; gastrointestinal bleeding developed in three untreated patients, one of whom developed ascites. in contrast, in the treated group, ascites and bleeding developed in only one patient. we conclude that the combination of colchicine and prednisone does not retard histologic progression or progression of standard liver tests after 2 yr of therapy. there is a trend toward less clinical deterioration and improved survival after 2 yr of treatment. on the basis of these findings, we would not advocate empiric use of these drugs for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis, but suggest that, if they are to be used at all in psc, they be evaluated in a controlled clinical trial as treatment for this as yet incurable disease.
surgical treatment of aneurysm or dissection involving the ascending aorta and aortic arch, utilizing circulatory arrest and retrograde cerebral perfusion. recently we replaced the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 8 patients with aneurysm or dissection, using profound hypothermic circulatory arrest with retrograde cerebral perfusion. there were no operative deaths. open aortic anastomosis facilitated repair of the aortic arch without clamping the arch tributaries, and embolism due to particulate debris from clamping of the arch vessels was eliminated. retrograde cerebral perfusion during profound hypothermic circulatory arrest is a simplified technique that may protect the brain. this method offers advantages over previously described methods, particularly in obviating dissection of the arch tributaries and the clamping thereof, and in protecting the central nervous system.
seven-pathogen tricuspid endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser. pitfalls in laboratory diagnosis. polymicrobial endocarditis is being reported with increasing frequency in drug abusers. however, the full extent of infection may be unrecognized with routine blood culture techniques because of the overgrowth of more fastidious organisms by other pathogens. this report documents an intravenous drug abuser with the first reported case of tricuspid valve endocarditis involving seven pathogens, discusses pitfalls of routine blood cultures and examines the role of the laboratory in microbiologic diagnosis.
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas: clinicopathological features and surgical treatment. forty-five (9.9%) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery: 24 had a blood collection, 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis, and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis. thirteen patients (28.9%) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy, whereas another 32 had an "asymptomatic" hemorrhage, that is, the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma. nineteen tumors (42.2%) showed marked suprasellar extension, 8 (17.8%) showed moderate extension, and 11 (24.5%) showed slight extension; another 2 (4.4%) were laterosellar and 5 (11.1%) were intrasellar. invasive behavior was present in 32 cases (71.1%) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage. the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive; therefore, we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor. two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery, whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route. it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible, even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy. the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results, but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary, namely, postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients, bromocriptine in 12, and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all. in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years, 5 (11.1%) symptomatic recurrences were observed.
changes in cerebral blood flow velocity after release of intraoperative tourniquets in humans: a transcranial doppler study. the effect of release of intraoperative thigh tourniquets on velocity of blood flow in the middle cerebral artery was examined in five patients given general anesthesia with controlled ventilation for lower extremity orthopedic procedures using transcranial doppler sonography. middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity increased significantly from 52 +/- 6 (sem) to 82 +/- 24 cm/s (an increase of 58% +/- 13%) within 4 +/- 1 min after tourniquet release and remained significantly elevated for 7 min. a positive linear correlation was found between middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity and petco2 on each occasion (0.97 greater than or equal to r greater than or equal to 0.84, 0.001 greater than p greater than 0.0001) after tourniquet deflation. assuming a linear relationship between flow velocity and flow, these findings suggest that significant increase in cerebral blood flow can occur after intraoperative tourniquet release and that this increase appears to be mostly co2-dependent.
can clinical judgment detect children with speech-language problems? pediatricians often rely on clinical judgment derived from observation or parental concern to identify children with developmental problems. the less popular but recommended alternative is to repeatedly administer standardized screening tests. such tests are time consuming but, unlike clinical judgment, have known detection rates. preliminary research concerning clinical judgment showed that clusters of parental concerns related to their childrens' performances on screening tests. in the present study, previous research was refined by assessment of the meaning of parents' concerns about their childrens' speech-language development. in this study of 157 families seeking pediatric care, 72% of children whose speech-language screening yielded positive results had parents who were concerned about their speech-language development. of children with negative screening results, 83% had parents with no concerns about their speech-language development. although standardized screening tests should be used occasionally in the developmental surveillance process, the findings show that the problems of most children with developmental problems were detected through clinical judgment based on parental concern.
surgical aspects of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis. sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis (sep) is associated with the administration of beta-blocking agents as well as continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. the predisposing factors in the latter group are recurrent peritonitis, presence of acetate in the dialysate, and antiseptics used during bag exchanges. we report a case of sep following chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and review the literature on this benign yet potentially lethal condition. sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis frequently leads to intestinal obstruction, small-bowel necrosis, enterocutaneous fistulas, and malnutrition. there is a high incidence of anastomotic failure when a resection and primary intestinal anastomosis is performed in patients with sep. although sep is not commonly reported in the surgical literature, its importance to surgeons is indicated by the fact that the overall mortality rate is close to 60% in patients with sep who develop surgical complications.
analysis of base station morphine orders: assessment of supervising physician consistency. paramedic contact with a base station should gemerate consistent recommendations reflecting a consensus of base station physician care. in our urban ems system, paramedics must contact a single base station to provide morphine sulfate (ms) for a patient with chest pain. we performed a retrospective cohort analysis of all prehospital ms requests for chest pain to determine the consistency of the circumstances for which the paramedic team was refused ms. these ms requests represented 123 of the 1,715 (7%) on-line physician consultations during the 6-month study. only 15 of the 123 (12%) ms requests were refused. neither the mean patient age, sex distribution, or presenting vital signs correlated with ms refusal. a maximum estimate of transport time to the hospital of less than or equal to 5 minutes was noted for 7 of 15 (47%) medication refusals compared to only 11 of 96 (11%) approvals with documented estimated transport times (p less than or equal to 0.005). a simultaneous request for nitroglycerin (ntg) was noted for 6 of the 15 (40%) medication refusals and 15 of the 108 (14%) approvals (p less than 0.05). we found refusal of ms administration to be uncommon. supervising physicians tended to refuse ms when the transport time was short and when ntg was requested for concomitant administration. we also noted physician inconsistencies in refusal scenarios. these findings can guide physician consensus development to avoid sending mixed messages to paramedics.
the role of diencephalic pathology in human memory disorder. evidence from a penetrating paranasal brain injury. a patient (b.j.) is reported who developed severe memory impairment following a penetrating brain injury caused by a snooker cue which entered through his left nostril into the basal regions of the brain. initially, his memory disorder had the clinical features of a dense amnesic syndrome, with both anterograde and retrograde amnesia, but b.j. subsequently showed significant recovery of memory function. formal memory testing was carried out 21 months after injury. this demonstrated marked verbal memory impairment, as severe as that seen in patients with the amnesic syndrome. on nonverbal memory tests, his impairment was relatively mild and patchy. his retrograde amnesia had regressed mainly to affect a 6 month period before the injury. on other cognitive tasks, he performed at an average or above average level, and there was no neuropsychological evidence of frontal lobe dysfunction. neuroradiological investigations at various stages after his injury failed to demonstrate a lesion in any of the thalamic nuclei. magnetic resonance imaging showed a lesion in the hypothalamus in the region of the mamillary bodies. our study demonstrates that marked, relatively focal, memory disorder after diencephalic injury can occur without direct pathology to the body of the thalamus. it also indicates that structures in or adjacent to the hypothalamus, such as the mamillary bodies, may play a more important role in human memory functioning than has hitherto been considered.
asialoglycoprotein receptor function in benign liver disease: evaluation with mr imaging. an arabinogalactan-coated ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (ag-uspio) preparation specific for asialoglycoprotein (asg) receptors on hepatocytes was used as a magnetic resonance (mr) imaging contrast agent in the evaluation of a spectrum of benign liver diseases in animal models. the activity of hepatocyte asg receptors, which directly reflects liver function, was directly assessed by measuring liver relaxation times in vitro and mr signal intensity in vivo. the following measurements allowed three-dimensional assessment of liver function: (a) liver relaxation time, (b) native mr signal intensities of liver, (c) response of liver to the ag-uspio probe (percentage decrease of liver signal intensity after intravenous administration of 10 mumol/kg of ag-uspio: normal liver 55%, fatty liver 57%, acute hepatitis 36%, chronic hepatitis 29%, and cirrhosis 46%), and (d) redistribution of hepatocyte-specific ag-uspio to the spleen (present in hepatitis and cirrhosis but not in normal liver and fatty liver). the results of this study indicate that cellular hepatic abnormalities can be detected and quantitated with mr receptor imaging.
myocardial metabolic and hemodynamic effects of a sustained intravenous infusion of nifedipine with and without metoprolol in patients with unstable angina. we tested the usefulness of a sustained intravenous infusion of nifedipine and a combination of nifedipine and metoprolol in the early management of 14 patients with unstable angina pectoris. after a 24-hour run-in period, nifedipine was titrated in a stepwise fashion (mean dose 27 +/- 7 micrograms/min). after nifedipine treatment coronary blood flow increased from 150 +/- 66 to 183 +/- 74 ml/min (p less than 0.05), whereas double product, myocardial oxygen consumption, and both arterial and coronary sinus (nor)epinephrine levels were unchanged. myocardial lactate uptake increased from 3.4 +/- 26.1 to 31.3 +/- 26.6 mumol/min (p less than 0.005) and free fatty acid uptake from 7.2 +/- 22.1 to 34.5 +/- 33.7 mumol/min (p less than 0.05). a small nonsignificant improvement in amino acid metabolism was observed. metoprolol was added in seven patients and led to a decrease in double product (-2.2 +/- 1.6 x 10(3); p less than 0.01) and myocardial oxygen consumption (-3.2 +/- 3.8 ml/min; p less than 0.05). the lactate uptake/oxygen uptake ratio increased by 18% after metoprolol (p = ns). the number of episodes of chest pain decreased from 2.4 +/- 1.1/24 hours to 0.1 +/- 0.2 in the nifedipine group and from 2.9 +/- 1.1/24 hours to 0.3 +/- 0.5 in the nifedipine plus metoprolol group (both p less than 0.01). we conclude that in the acute phase of unstable angina, intravenous nifedipine can be carefully titrated to improve coronary blood flow and oxidative metabolism. the addition of metoprolol is also associated with a reduction in myocardial oxygen demand. this treatment results in significant hemodynamic stability.
effect of 17 beta-estradiol on the growth of an estrogen receptor-positive human esophageal carcinoma cell line. receptors for estrogen and for androgen in the nucleus and cytosol (ern, erc, arn, and arc, respectively) were studied on two newly established human esophageal carcinoma cell lines, es-25c and es-8c. es-25c was ern+ (the binding content 4.0 fmol/mg protein, kd 0.09 nm), erc-, arn-, and arc-. no receptors were found in es-8c. various doses of 17 beta-estradiol (e2) were added in vitro to investigate its effect on the growth of these cell lines. no effect of e2 was observed on er--es-8c cell line. the growth of es-25c cell was significantly inhibited at the doses of 10(-10) and 10(-12) mol/l e2 compared with the control. the doubling time of 10(-12) mol/l e2-treated cells was 32 hours whereas that of control was 20 hours. this slower growth was reflected in the deduction of cells in s-phase utilizing 5-bromo 2'-deoxyuridine (brdu) labeling. the current results strongly suggest that the growth inhibition of er+ esophageal cancer cell by e2 is mediated by signal transduction induced by the estrogen-estrogen receptor system.
"moustache" appearance in craniopharyngiomas: unique magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic findings of perifocal edema. this report describes two cases of craniopharyngioma with perifocal edema. in both patients, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) revealed that the tumors occupied the suprasellar cistern, invaginated the floor of the 3rd ventricle and were tightly adherent to the ventricular walls. the intraventricular portions of the tumors were cystic, containing protein-rich fluid as suggested by mri and confirmed by operative findings. there was perifocal edema in the hypothalamus adjacent to the intraventricular tumor, the optic tracts, and the posterior limbs of the internal capsules, resembling the shape of a moustache on axial computed tomographic and mri scans. the perifocal edema subsided after treatment of the intraventricular tumor by surgical resection or radiation therapy. the "moustache" appearance seems a unique, characteristic feature of perifocal edema, which is observed infrequently with certain craniopharyngiomas.
treatment with desmopressin acetate in routine coronary artery bypass surgery to improve postoperative hemostasis. desmopressin acetate (ddavp) has been shown to decrease blood loss and transfusions in complex cardiac operations with long extracorporeal times. its use in routine cardiac valve operations has been shown not to be beneficial, but its role in routine coronary artery bypass grafting operations has not been defined. we examined the effect of ddavp in a prospective study of 60 patients undergoing uncomplicated primary coronary artery bypass grafting operations. thirty consecutive patients received ddavp (0.3 micrograms/kg) after cardiopulmonary bypass and were compared with 30 consecutive patients who did not receive ddavp. no significant differences were seen in 12-hour mediastinal blood loss (465 +/- 207 ml with ddavp versus 511 +/- 221 ml without ddavp) or 12-24-hour mediastinal blood loss (236 +/- 127 ml with ddavp versus 260 +/- 112 ml without ddavp). transfusion of blood products were similar for both groups. platelet aggregometry at intraoperative and postoperative time points using adp, collagen, and ristocetin was not significantly different from baseline values in either group. in a subgroup of patients with poor initial ristocetin-induced platelet aggregometry, a significant increase (p less than 0.05) in ristocetin-induced platelet aggregometry was seen postoperatively only in those patients who had received ddavp. a decrease in blood loss and transfusions, however, was not demonstrable. in those patients who had been on aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs preoperatively, ddavp did not improve mediastinal blood loss or transfusion needs.
balloon expandable stent implantation in stenotic right heart valved conduits. although valved conduits have been used successfully in severe forms of right ventricular-pulmonary artery discontinuity, progressive valved conduit stenosis is an important clinical problem. to determine the feasibility of reducing right heart valved conduit stenosis with a balloon expandable stent, a baboon model was used, in which the pulmonary artery was ligated and a right ventricular to pulmonary artery 14 mm bioprosthetic dacron valved conduit implanted. in five baboons, at an average of 40 months after valved conduit implantation, fibrointimal stenosis at the valve site resulted in narrowing and a mean transconduit pressure gradient of 49 mm hg (range 33 to 65). a tubular slotted steel stent (1.2 cm long) was deployed within the valved conduit after inflation of an 8 to 15 mm diameter balloon catheter that was introduced through the femoral vein. a stent was delivered to all valved conduits; however, in two baboons, balloon undersizing resulted in stent dislodgment. in the remaining three baboons, the transconduit gradient was reduced by 59% (49 to 20 mm hg) and right ventricular systolic pressure decreased acutely by 35% (77 to 50 mm hg). it is concluded that stent deployment is feasible in right ventricular to pulmonary artery stenotic valved conduits and may result in significant hemodynamic improvement. however, successful stent delivery is critically dependent on the proper selection of stent length and balloon diameter.
the ver as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine. abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent, for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined. as in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence. by recording the fast wave activity (beta rhythmn) in the visual evoked response (ver) to red and white flash, the pattern stimulation, 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls, outside the attack phase. comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed, from the ver findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity, that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine. we found that both clinically and electrophysiologically, abdominal migraine changes with age; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks, and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the ver.
demonstration of two distinct subsets of gastric varices. observations during a seven-year study of endoscopic sclerotherapy. over a seven-year period, assessment of gastric varices was made on 225 patients receiving endoscopic sclerotherapy for variceal hemorrhage. of 170 patients with complete data, gastric varices were observed in 26 (15.3%). importantly, two distinct subsets of gastric varices were identified: varices distal to the gastroesophageal junction without extension into the fundus, termed "junctional varices," occurred in 11.2%, and varices that were confined only to the fundus, termed "fundal varices," occurred less frequently in 4.1%. although rebleeding was increased in both subsets of gastric varices, junctional varices were more amenable to sclerotherapy. patients with fundal varices (n = 7) had a significantly higher rebleeding rate, increased complications with sclerotherapy, and significantly decreased survival (p less than 0.005) when compared to patients with esophageal varices alone (n = 87) who were followed for more than three months. cumulative survival was not significantly different (p less than 0.08) in patients with junctional varices (n = 19) when compared with patients with esophageal varices alone. we conclude that not all patients with gastric varices have a poor result with sclerotherapy. recognition of these subsets may improve treatment strategies in patients with gastric varices.
an increase in plasma cholesterol independent of thyroid function during long-term amiodarone therapy. a dose-dependent relationship. objective: to determine whether long-term amiodarone treatment is associated with a rise in plasma cholesterol, and, if so, to analyze its relation with thyroid function. design: consecutive entry trial, including cardiac patients who initiated amiodarone medication but excluding those with abnormal thyroid function (defined as peak thyroid-stimulating hormone [tsh] response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone [trh] less than 2.8 or greater than 22.0 mu/l) either before or during amiodarone treatment. patients: twenty-three patients who remained euthyroid were studied. intervention: oral administration of amiodarone (mean duration of treatment, 17 months; range, 6 to 30 months). measurements: fasting plasma lipids, thyroid hormones, and peak tsh to trh values were recorded before and every 6 months during amiodarone treatment. results: plasma cholesterol gradually increased from 5.1 +/- 0.2 mmol/l before treatment to 6.9 +/- 0.8 mmol/l after 30 months of amiodarone medication (p less than 0.001); the peak tsh response to trh did not change. when age- and sex-specific reference values were applied, 30% of the patients had cholesterol values above the 75th percentile before treatment; this number rose to 69% after 2 years of treatment. the rise in plasma cholesterol was associated with an equal increase in apoprotein b. plasma cholesterol was not related to the daily dose of amiodarone or to plasma concentrations of amiodarone, desethylamiodarone, thyroxine (t4), triiodothyronine (t3), or reverse triiodothyronine (rt3). linear regression analysis indicated a positive relation between plasma cholesterol and the cumulative dose of amiodarone (r = 0.25, p less than 0.05). conclusion: long-term amiodarone treatment is associated with a dose-dependent increase in plasma cholesterol that is independent of thyroid function.
quantitative evaluation of hypnotically suggested hyperaesthesia and analgesia by painful laser stimulation. the ability to reduce both clinically and experimentally induced pain by hypnotic suggestion of analgesia is well known. however, the nature of hypnotic analgesia still remains uncertain. attempts to demonstrate and identify specific psychophysiological mechanisms have, so far, been unsatisfactory. methodological problems in inducing pain and monitoring physiological responses may be the reason for this lack of success. in the present study, we have attempted to eliminate some of these methodological problems. the sensory and pain thresholds to laser stimulation were determined, and the laser-evoked brain potentials were measured for 8 highly hypnotically susceptible subjects in 3 conditions: (1) waking state, (2) suggestion of hyperaesthesia, (3) suggestion of analgesia. the thresholds were reduced during induced hyperaesthesia and increased during analgesia. during hyperaesthesia sensations could be evoked by laser intensities which were below intensities that could be perceived in the awake state. the amplitude of the evoked brain potentials increased during hyperaesthesia and decreased during analgesia. the latency of the potential remained constant. the perception of pain during hypnosis can change very fast, indicating that slow endogenous mechanisms may play only a minor role in suggested hyperaesthesia/analgesia.
transcatheter treatment of splenic artery aneurysms (saa). report of two cases. splenic artery embolization with steel coils was performed in two patients who both had large splenic artery aneurysms and hepatic cirrhosis complicated by hypersplenism. a good clinical effect was noticed after the procedure. it was concluded that this treatment is safe and effective and decreases the risk of splenic artery rupture. it also corrects hypersplenism. transcatheter embolization appears to be a preferable alternative to surgery in such cases.
reoperation for persistent outflow obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. this study compares results of a second left ventricular myotomy and myectomy (m + m) with those of mitral valve replacement (mvr) as reoperative procedures for persistent left ventricular outflow obstruction after m + m in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. comparison of the second m + m group (n = 12) with the mvr group (n = 11) disclosed significant difference (p less than 0.05) in mean age at the initial operation (29 +/- 11 years versus 40 +/- 8 years), interval between operations (46 +/- 57 months versus 18 +/- 13 months), and age at reoperation (33 +/- 10 years versus 42 +/- 8 years); and insignificant differences in mean preoperative functional class, cardiac index, left ventricular outflow gradients at rest or with provocation, and hospital mortality at reoperation (2/12 versus 1/11). at 6 months after reoperation, comparison of results of a second m + m with mvr showed that mean functional class, cardiac index, and left ventricular outflow gradient at rest were similarly improved, but the outflow gradient with provocation was significantly higher in the second m + m group (57 +/- 44 mm hg versus 14 +/- 9 mm hg, p less than 0.05). total follow-up was 108 patient-years (100% complete) with an average of 5.9 years per patient in the second m + m group and 3.4 years per patient in the mvr group. actuarial survival, including hospital mortality, at 3 and 5 years was 83% and 76%, respectively, after the second m + m, which was similar to 92% and 77% after mvr.
kinematic analysis of lower-limb movement during ergometer pedaling in hemiplegic and nonhemiplegic subjects. the purpose of this descriptive study was to examine bicycle pedaling as a model for studying motor control dysfunction in persons with hemiplegia. results of a kinematic analysis of the involved lower extremity of 10 hemiplegic patients were compared with the lower-extremity kinematic data of 10 "normal" (nonhemiplegic) subjects. subjects pedaled at a constant work load at two pedaling rates. hip, knee, and ankle angular-displacement variables were studied. statistical comparisons for variables at the hip and knee were not significantly different between groups or between pedaling speeds. ankle dorsiflexion and total ankle excursion were significantly different across pedaling speeds, but not between groups. phase-plane analyses of angular-displacement and angular-velocity variables revealed that the most striking difference between the hemiplegic and the normal subjects was the control of ankle displacement and velocity of the lower extremity during pedaling.
return to work for persons with traumatic brain injury: a supported employment approach. supported employment was used to place 41 persons into competitive employment during 30 months. all individuals had experienced severe head injuries; almost 70% of injuries were due to motor vehicle accidents. a mean of seven years had passed since injury for all referred clients, who had been unconscious a mean of 53 days. only 36% of referred clients had achieved any competitive postinjury employment, compared with 91% of the same group who were competitively employed before injury. a job retention rate of 71% was reported, with most jobs in warehouse, clerical, and service-related occupations. a mean of 291 hours of job coaching was required to place and maintain all clients in supported employment.
comparison of exercise performance in left main and three-vessel coronary artery disease. from a consecutive series of patients who underwent rest and exercise radionuclide angiography over several years, we retrospectively identified 34 patients with left main coronary artery disease and 103 patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease who did not have significant left main disease. the results of gated equilibrium radionuclide angiography were compared in these 2 groups. multiple exercise hemodynamic, exercise electrocardiographic, and exercise radionuclide angiographic parameters were considered in an attempt to separate the 2 groups. the only parameter that was significantly different between the 2 groups was exercise heart rate. however, no value of the exercise heart rate could meaningfully separate the 2 groups. despite their known difference in prognosis, patients with left main and three-vessel disease had very similar exercise performance and could not be distinguished from one another by exercise electrocardiography or exercise radionuclide angiography. the inability to distinguish these two groups is a clear limitation of noninvasive exercise modalities.
mechlorethamine, vincristine, and procarbazine chemotherapy for recurrent high-grade glioma in adults: a phase ii study. we undertook a phase ii study of combination chemotherapy with mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard) 6 mg/m2 intravenously day 1 and day 8, vincristine 2 mg intravenously day 1 and day 8, and procarbazine 100 mg/m2 orally days 1 through 14 (mop) in adults with recurrent high-grade glioma. there were 31 patients entered and 27 patients assessable for response. the median age was 49 years old. all patients had prior maximal radiotherapy, and eight had previous chemotherapy. responses were determined based on clinical and computed tomographic (ct) scan/magnetic resonance imaging (mri) criteria. the response rate (partial response [pr] plus objective qualitative response [oqr] plus complete response [cr]) was 52% with one cr. the response rate was higher in patients with anaplastic astrocytoma as compared with glioblastoma multiforme (p less than .05). the median duration of response was 42 weeks. median survival for all assessable patients was 30 weeks, and for responders, it was 60 weeks. response was correlated with ability to decrease dexamethasone doses and improved performance status. toxicity was mainly hematologic with leukopenia being common. there was one treatment-related death from listeria meningitis, and two patients developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. there were three episodes of neutropenic fever. we conclude that mop is active and merits further investigation in adult high-grade glioma.
differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites. the recent identification of the cystic fibrosis (cf) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in cf. a three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product, termed the cf conductance regulator protein, accounts for 70% of cases of cf in white subjects. however, this gene defect occurs in only 37% of affected blacks. analysis of cf genes from american blacks has revealed a number of mutations, most of which are unique to that population. we therefore searched for potential differences in expression of cf between 24 black and 48 white patients with cf matched for birth date and gender. black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms (38% vs 10%). black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations (2 vs 6.9), a better mean forced vital capacity (77% vs 62% of predicted), and higher chest roentgenogram scores (18.2 vs 14.4) than white patients. complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration (21% vs 2%) and peptic ulcer disease (13% vs 0%) in blacks. survival time appeared to be longer in blacks, but the difference was not statistically significant. we conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with cf, which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations.
relation between leisure-time physical activity and blood pressure in older women. although there is some evidence that physical activity may decrease blood pressure in young and middle-aged women, the physical activity-blood pressure association in older women has rarely been studied. as part of an ongoing community-based study of chronic disease, 641 caucasian women between the ages of 50 and 89 years had blood pressure measured following the hypertension detection and follow-up program protocol. they also answered selected health interview survey questions about their leisure-time activity and were classified into categories of light (58%), moderate (24%), heavy (6%), or no physical activity (12%) by the estimated metabolic rate required for each activity. women who engaged in any physical activity were significantly younger and thinner than sedentary women and had lower fasting and 2-hour postchallenge insulin levels. they did not differ in alcohol consumption, cigarette use, or prevalence of coronary heart disease or diabetes. rates of systolic and diastolic hypertension were significantly lower in women participating in light, moderate, or heavy physical activity compared with sedentary women. blood pressure levels decreased with each increase in reported activity intensity (p less than 0.005 for trend), with systolic blood pressure approximately 20 mm hg lower in the heaviest activity group compared with systolic blood pressure in sedentary women. intergroup differences remained statistically significant after adjustment for age and body mass index. although physical activity was associated with lower fasting and 2-hour postchallenge insulin levels (p less than 0.01 for trend), adjustment for insulin levels did not alter blood pressure differences among activity groups.
role of upper gastrointestinal investigations in a screening study for colorectal neoplasia. should patients with positive faecal occult blood screening tests who are free of colorectal neoplasia undergo upper gastrointestinal investigation? altogether 16,985 faecal occult blood tests were completed in a group of 18,818 asymptomatic patients (45-75 years) offered screening at two yearly intervals. a total of 447 (2.6%) were positive and underwent large bowel investigations. no neoplastic disease was identified in 283 (63%) of them. fourteen (5%) also underwent gastroscopy for upper gastrointestinal symptoms, benign conditions were identified in five and a gastric carcinoma in one. no further investigations were instituted in the remaining 269 subjects who have now been followed up for a median period of 5 years (2-8 years). five have been referred for benign upper gastrointestinal conditions, but none for upper gastrointestinal malignancy. thirty one subjects have died - one from gastric cancer (a patient who had undergone a previous partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer and who had persistent upper gastrointestinal symptoms). the remaining deaths were unrelated to the upper gastrointestinal tract. nineteen people who have left the trial area have been monitored for the development of malignant disease; none have presented with upper gastrointestinal malignancy. these data support the view that upper gastrointestinal investigations need not be performed routinely in this group of subjects, but may be reserved for those with relevant symptoms.
the prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease. this case report describes the use of octreotide, a long-acting somatostatin analogue, in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease. this patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication. anaesthesia was induced with midazolam, fentanyl, and vecuronium, and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium. however, we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively, and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery.
cognitive function testing in comprehensive geriatric assessment. a comparison of cognitive test performance in residential and clinic settings. tests of cognitive function are frequently used in geriatric assessment, but the effect of test setting has rarely been explored. to determine the effect of testing site on the performance of elderly patients undergoing a comprehensive geriatric assessment, we administered the mini-mental state exam to 116 geriatric patients in the clinic and at their residence. their cognitive abilities varied from normal to severely impaired. the patients' scores were 1.5 +/- 3.6 (mean +/- sd) higher at their residence. the clinical importance of a difference in score of 1.5 is not clear. for this reason a second analysis was performed in which a difference in scores of five points or greater between settings was considered clinically meaningful. twenty-five percent (29 of 116) differed by five points or more. of these 29 patients, 22 (76%) tested better in the residential setting. these differences were statistically significant (p = .001). we conclude that the testing site may affect test performance and that in-home assessment may reveal the optimal cognitive function of geriatric patients.
chronic dehydration stone disease. a study was made of 819 patients attending a metabolic stone clinic. a firm diagnosis was made in 708 (86%) and in 132 of these (19%) the diagnosis was thought to be chronic dehydration. the records were available for study for 87 males and 11 females in the chronic dehydration group. the mean age at presentation was 43 years. the causes of chronic dehydration were hot climate (62%), with hot occupation and low water intake almost equal in second place. in patients with a single cause of chronic dehydration, 57% also had a dietary risk factor for urolithiasis and this was most commonly high oxalate intake. following dietary advice, the mean urinary volume increased from 1720 to 2475 ml/24 h. this was accompanied by a rise in mean urinary calcium from 6.02 to 6.96 mmol/24 h, presumably due to the calcium in the additional water drunk. urinary oxalate did not change significantly. the mean follow-up time was 4.85 years and the stone recurrence rate was low. it was concluded that chronic dehydration is a common cause of urolithiasis; this can be treated satisfactorily by increasing water intake plus dietary advice in certain cases.
physical features of prader-willi syndrome in neonates. a retrospective study of 16 patients was undertaken to identify physical features that may typify neonates with prader-willi syndrome. several features known to be typical of prader-willi syndrome in early infancy were confirmed, including hypotonia and genital hypoplasia. a number of features that have not previously been emphasized as characterizing prader-willi syndrome were also identified, most notably abnormal cry and, in males, signs of genital hypoplasia but with an apparently normal phallus. other features included disproportionately large head circumference, disproportionately large anterior fontanelle, mild micrognathia, mild anomalies of the gingivae or alveolar ridges, and changes in the appearance of the skin. appreciation of these features may assist the pediatrician in recognizing the child with prader-willi syndrome during the neonatal period, before the appearance of better-known findings of later onset, such as obesity and acromicria.
one-stage laryngotracheoplasty. this article documents the evolution of our approach to the repair of subglottic stenosis in infants. with increasing experience in the management of subglottic stenosis using the anterior cricoid split procedure, we extended our procedure to include older children. this then led to the use of the one-stage procedure for repair of severe and mature subglottic stenosis. we present the results of surgical repair in 13 patients. extubation was accomplished in 12 of 13 patients using one-stage laryngotracheoplasty.
interleukin-2-induced lung permeability is mediated by leukotriene b4. interleukin (il)-2 therapy leads to respiratory dysfunction due to increased vascular permeability. this study examines the role of the chemoattractant, immunomodulator, and permeability-promoting agent leukotriene (lt) b4 in this setting. sheep with chronic lung lymph fistulae were given il-2, 10(5) u/kg as an iv bolus (n = 6). within 2 hours this led to a significant increase in ltb4 levels in both plasma and lung lymph. the mean pulmonary artery pressure (mpap) rose while the pulmonary artery wedge pressure was unchanged. arterial oxygen tension (pao2) fell. lung lymph flow (ql) was tripled (p less than 0.05) at 3 hours, coinciding with an increase in the lymph/plasma (l/p) protein ratio (p less than 0.05) resulting in an increase in the lymph protein clearance (p less than 0.05), data documenting increased microvascular permeability to protein. mild leukopenia and thrombocytopenia (p less than 0.05) occurred. body temperature rose and shaking chills were common. pretreatment with the lipoxygenase inhibitor diethylcarbamazine (dec; n = 6) reduced baseline plasma ltb4 levels and prevented the il-2-induced increases in ltb4 in plasma and lung lymph (p less than 0.05). in contrast to il-2 treatment alone, dec blunted the increase in mpap and prevented the rises in ql (p less than 0.05), l/p protein ratio (p less than 0.05), and lymph protein clearance (p less than 0.05). dec also prevented the il-2-induced leukopenia, the fall in platelet count, and the rise in body temperature (p less than 0.05, respectively). infusion of il-2 excipient control (n = 5) did not affect plasma or lymph ltb4 levels but there were mild increases in mpap (p less than 0.05). the ql also rose but this occurred while the l/p protein ratio fell (p less than 0.05). body temperature rose moderately. the pao2, leukocyte, and platelet counts were unaffected. these data indicate that il-2 administration leads to pulmonary dysfunction manifest by pulmonary hypertension and increased vascular permeability, events associated with ltb4 synthesis and prevented by dec. leukotriene b4 appears therefore to mediate the il-2-induced lung injury.
positive results of combined therapy of surgery and intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion for far-advanced gastric cancer. to evaluate the clinical efficacy of intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion (iphp) for far-advanced gastric cancer, particularly with peritoneal seeding, we investigated the survival times of 59 patients who underwent distal subtotal gastrectomy, total gastrectomy, or total gastrectomy combined with concomitant resection of some of the remaining intra-abdominal organs. in all the 30 patients given iphp, no cancer cells were present posthyperthermically in the lavage from the douglas pouch. the 30 patients given iphp lived longer than the 29 patients not given iphp (p = 0.001), with a 1-year survival rate of 80.4% in the former group compared to 34.2% in the latter. with respect to a comparison of survival time of patients with peritoneal seeding, 7 patients not given iphp had a 6-month survival rate of 57.1% and did not survive more than 9 months, whereas 20 patients given iphp had 1- and 2-year survival rates of 78.7% and 45.0%, respectively; here the difference was significant (p = 0.001). the iphp and control groups without peritoneal metastasis included 10 and 22 patients, respectively, and the 1-year survival rates are 85.4% and 45.3%, respectively. the survival rates of the former exceeded those of the latter, with p = 0.015 by the generalized wilcoxon test. thus this combined therapy offers the promise of extended survival for patients with far-advanced gastric cancer.
emergent saphenous vein graft stenting for acute occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. this report describes the initial use in the united states of emergency intravascular stenting for the treatment of acute coronary occlusion complicating elective saphenous vein graft angioplasty. this case adds further support to the role of the balloon expandable stent as an effective "bail out" device for failed angioplasty.
radical intracapsular removal of acoustic neurinomas. long-term follow-up review of 11 patients. historically, the neurosurgical treatment of large acoustic neurinomas has developed with two principal goals: complete tumor removal and preservation of facial nerve function. a recent goal for small tumors is the preservation of hearing. out of a personal series of 124 acoustic neurinomas treated over the past 35 years, the senior author has undertaken a radical intracapsular approach in 12 patients with large tumors (greater than 3 cm in diameter). surgical indications for intracapsular removal included advanced age (five cases), the patient's wish to avoid any risk of facial paralysis (six cases), contralateral facial palsy (one case), and contralateral deafness (one case). eleven of these 12 patients were available for follow-up review. tumor recurrence developed in two patients (18%) at 2 and 3 years postoperatively; there were no late recurrences. four patients died of unrelated causes, 10 to 19 years after surgery. the remaining five patients have survived a mean of 12 years since surgery without recurrence (range 3 to 22 years). facial function was preserved in nine patients (82%). the results suggest that radical intracapsular removal may be the procedure of choice under certain circumstances and may offer an alternative to focused high-energy radiation.
quality-of-life-adjusted survival for comparing cancer treatments. a commentary on twist and q-twist. in chronic disease situations where treatment comparisons favor no particular therapy, or where definitive outcome requires a considerable follow-up period, it is useful to have additional and perhaps intermediate endpoints of relevant clinical significance to compare treatments. one such endpoint is time without symptoms and toxicity (twist) which, together with q-twist, attempts to address the quality of life of patients receiving the competing regimens. this paper provides a commentary on these techniques with an emphasis on the problems inherent in implementing q-twist, a measure that attempts to incorporate patient value preferences into twist. it is argued that while q-twist is intuitively appealing in the clinical setting, there are formidable design and psychometric hurdles that must be overcome to fully operationalize the concept.
shy-drager syndrome. effect of fludrocortisone and l-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine on the blood pressure and regional cerebral blood flow. in nine cases of shy-drager syndrome, the changes in blood pressure and cerebral blood flow on sitting up from a supine position were studied. the influence of fludrocortisone, a synthetic mineralocorticoid, and l-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (dops), a precursor of norepinephrine, on these changes was examined. on sitting up, the regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) measured by xe133 inhalation showed a tendency to decrease. fludrocortisone reduced the fall of the mean blood pressure significantly. dops reduced the fall of both the diastolic blood pressure and rcbf significantly.
tick-borne borreliosis in west africa. reported cases of tick-borne relapsing fever due to the spirochaete borrelia crocidurae are rare in west africa, and few epidemiological data are available. to see how common relapsing fever is in senegal thick blood smears from cases of fever of unknown origin and from randomly selected clinic outpatients from a rural dispensary were examined for borrelia. the prevalence of borrelia infections in small mammals was also assessed. borrelia was seen in smears of 12 (0.9%) of 1340 children. all children who tested positive had complained of acute fever. prevalence was 0% (0/496), 0.5% (2/417), 1.6% (5/308), and 4.2% (5/119) at ages 0-1, 2-4, 5-9, and 10-14, respectively. 26 other instances of borreliosis were seen in patients from different regions of senegal. blood samples from 7 of these patients were inoculated intraperitoneally into white mice; serious infection developed in all mice. borrelia was seen in thick smears from 65 of 461 wild rodents or insectivores. six rodents species were infected. from a sample of 93 rodents, 33.3% were infected, as judged by intraperitoneal inoculation of white mice, compared with 14.1% by direct smear examination. the findings suggest that borreliosis has a wide distribution and a high incidence in senegal. this disease may be a major cause of morbidity in rural areas throughout much of west africa.
molecular structure of a major insulin/mitogen-activated 70-kda s6 protein kinase. the molecular structure of a rat hepatoma 70-kda insulin/mitogen-stimulated s6 protein kinase, obtained by molecular cloning, is compared to that of a rat homolog of the 85-kda xenopus s6 protein kinase alpha; both kinases were cloned from h4 hepatoma cdna libraries. the 70-kda s6 kinase (calculated molecular mass of 59,186 da) exhibits a single catalytic domain that is most closely related in amino acid sequence (56% identity) to the amino-terminal, kinase c-like domain of the rat p85 s6 kinase (calculated molecular mass of 82,695 da); strong similarity extends through a further 67 residues carboxyl-terminal to the catalytic domain (40% identity), corresponding to a region also conserved among the kinase c family. outside of this segment of approximately 330 amino acids, the structures of the p70 and p85 s6 kinases diverge substantially. the p70 s6 kinase is known to be activated through serine/threonine phosphorylation by unidentified insulin/mitogen-activated protein kinases. a model for the regulation of p70 s6 protein kinase activity is proposed wherein the low activity of the unphosphorylated enzyme results from the binding of a basic, inhibitory pseudosubstrate site (located carboxyl-terminal to the extended catalytic domain) to an acidic substrate binding region (located amino-terminal to the catalytic domain); substrate binding is thereby prevented. s6 kinase activation requires displacement of this inhibitory segment, which is proposed to occur consequent to its multiple phosphorylation. the putative autoinhibitory segment contains several serine and threonine residues, each followed directly by a proline residue. this motif may prevent autophosphorylation but permit transphosphorylation; two of these serine residues reside in a maturation promoting factor (mpf)/cdc-2 consensus motif. thus, hormonal regulation of s6 kinase may involve the action of mpf/cdc-2 or protein kinases with related substrate specificity.
properties of strains of escherichia coli o26:h11 in relation to their enteropathogenic or enterohemorrhagic classification. thirty-seven strains of escherichia coli o26:h11 from infants and calves with diarrhea were examined for properties associated with enteropathogenic (epec) or enterohemorrhagic e. coli (ehec). strains were heterogeneous with respect to vero cytotoxin (vt) production and hybridization with the ehec plasmid-specific (cvd419) probe; 26 strains produced vt1; 1 produced vt2. twenty-four of 27 vt+ strains and 5 of 10 vt- strains hybridized with the cvd419 probe and produced enterohemolysin; these properties are characteristic of ehec. the strains did not hybridize with the epec adherence factor probe, a property characteristic of some epec. nevertheless, 36 strains adhered to hep-2 cells in a localized manner and were positive by the fluorescence actin staining (fas) test that is considered to correlate with the ability to cause attaching and effacing lesions in vivo. epec and ehec cause these lesions. although the fas test appeared to be the most general pathogenicity test for the o26:h11 strains, it could not be used to assign strains specifically to epec or ehec groups.
unusual complication of an ingested foreign body. migration of a foreign body from the mouth and throat to the subcutaneous tissue of the neck is very rare. we present a case of a migrating foreign body (a piece of straw) from the floor of the mouth to the neck. to our knowledge, this is the second case reported in the english literature.
practice effects on the preprogramming of discrete movements in parkinson's disease. the effects of practice on the simple and choice reaction times (rts) of parkinson's disease (pd) and control subjects in a discrete aiming task were analysed. for controls, practice led to a selective decrease in choice rts, as has been reported previously. an opposite effect was seen in the pd group, with little change in choice rts and substantial reduction in simple rts. the results suggest that pd subjects can use advance information to initiate discrete movements more rapidly, but that this ability to "preprogramme" movements requires practice. reconciliation of these results with studies reporting an inability to preprogramme in pd are made in a discussion of task characteristics which may allow or preclude preprogramming.
clustering of cancer in families of patients with primary lung cancer. we have previously shown that patients with a positive family history of lung cancer did not exhibit characteristics expected if the familial association was a surrogate for a genetic mechanism which was absent in those without such a history. in this study, we examine the incidence of cancer (all sites) in two groups of families: (a) those ascertained through a patient with primary lung cancer (n = 359 families) and (b) through a community control subject (n = 234). the index subjects were excluded from all incidence data analyses. most families (62 vs 57%) reported at least one member with a history of neoplastic disease. patients' families were more likely to have 2 or more affected members (p less than 0.05), to exhibit a multigenerational pattern (33 vs 24%) and to have a higher risk of multiple tumours (or = 1.5) in the same individual. however, most of the sites with the highest odds ratios (males, vocal cord/esophagus 8.3; colon/rectum 2.3; lung 1.96; females, pancreas 4.8; vocal/cord esophagus 4.1; lung 1.8) are smoking associated although these were not necessarily the most frequently affected sites. in conclusion, these data support an ecogenetic etiology of cancer within families.
ritual and dying: a cultural analysis of social support for caregivers. this study examines the role of social support in the process of caring for someone dying at home. based on data from in-depth ethnographic interviews with 16 caregivers, it employs a cultural analysis to draw parallels with rituals of transition. ritual provides a broad context of meanings and routines for securing the doubts and unknowns of individual experience. the way social support is provided plays a key role in the caregiver's transition to bereavement.
suggestive evidence that pelvic endometriosis is a progressive disease, whereas deeply infiltrating endometriosis is associated with pelvic pain. in a 3-year prospective study of 643 consecutive laparoscopies for infertility, pelvic pain, or infertility and pain, the pelvic area, the depth of infiltration, and the volume of endometriotic lesions were evaluated. the incidence, area, and volume of subtle lesions decreased with age, whereas for typical lesions these parameters and the depth of infiltration increased with age. deeply infiltrating endometriosis was strongly associated with pelvic pain, women with pain having larger and deeper lesions. because deep endometriosis has little emphasis in the revised american fertility society classification and after analyzing the diagnoses made in each class, considerations for a simplifying revision with inclusion of deep lesions are suggested. in conclusion, suggestive evidence is presented to support the concept that endometriosis is a progressive disorder, and it is demonstrated that deep endometriosis is strongly associated with pelvic pain.
coronary angiographic patterns in hypertensive compared with normotensive patients. patients in this study were assessed by coronary angiography because of classic effort angina and a positive exercise test. of these patients, 320 had untreated primary hypertension and 320, similar in age and gender distribution, were normotensive. in all patients coronary angiography documented that at least one major epicardial branch was restricted by 50% or more. prevalence of single- and double-vessel disease in the fourth and fifth decades of life was similar in the two populations and in both tended to decline with age. prevalence of triple-vessel disease was also similar in the two populations in the fourth and fifth decades; in either population it rose with age and reached a peak at the seventh decade of life. the percentages of hypertensive patients in the sixth and seventh decades with triple-vessel disease was significantly (p less than 0.01) greater (40% and 50%, respectively) than the corresponding values in normotensive individuals (25% and 31%, respectively). the left main coronary artery was not significantly more involved in the high blood pressure group. pressure was moderately and similarly raised at any age in hypertension; serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels, blood glucose, and smoking habits were comparable in the two populations. these results suggest that hypertension does not accelerate the appearance of significant coronary narrowing or multiple vessel involvement. starting from the sixth decade, the natural age-related evolution of coronary disease seems to be aggravated in hypertensive subjects, as reflected by an augmented number of diseased vessels. this process is probably related to high blood pressure in itself; whether the severity of hypertension might also exert an influence is not deducible from this study.
potentially fatal asthma and syncope. a new variant of munchausen's syndrome in sports medicine. we report a case of munchausen's syndrome in a 19-year-old female college athlete who presented with potentially fatal asthma and recurrent syncopal episodes. failure to control her asthma with the appropriate medications and the lack of objective findings on both physical examination and diagnostic testing raised the possibility of factitious disease. munchausen's syndrome, although not described with any frequency in asthmatic patients, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of those patients refractory to aggressive medical management.
ultrastructural study of norrie's disease. we studied the clinicopathologic and ultrastructural features of a full-term infant with norrie's disease. the infant had bilateral retrolental fibrous vascular masses and retinal detachment with no other apparent physical abnormalities and no family history of ocular defects. a vitrectomy and a membrane peeling were attempted, and specimens of the retina, the retrolental membrane, and a vascularized epiretinal peripheral mass were examined by light and electron microscopy. the retrolental membrane was composed of layered collagenous tissue and contained structures resembling blood vessels. inner and outer neuroblastic layers were identified in the retinal tissue, but no vessels were present. in the epiretinal mass, portions of retina and cortical vitreous were seen along with primitive vascular structures. the histologic appearance of these specimens suggests that the major pathologic event of norrie's disease occurs in the retina in the third to fourth gestational month. we believe the subsequent ocular abnormalities found in this patient were secondary to this early retinal malformation and did not represent a progressive ocular disorder.
primary renal lymphoma. lymphoma arising in the kidney is rare. although 31 cases have been reported in the literature, it is likely that most of these neoplasms do not arise in the kidney. this report describes two cases of primary renal lymphoma and compares their clinical presentation, diagnostic modalities, treatment, and survival with the previously reported patients who satisfied our criteria for the diagnosis of primary renal lymphoma.
recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in wilms' tumor. a 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a wilms' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. she was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence. the recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable wilms' tumor elements. the child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy. pathologic, immunoperoxidase, and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented.
large arteries involvement in scleroderma--a case report. the authors describe a thirty-nine-year-old woman patient presenting with progressive systemic sclerosis and an unusual angiographic picture of an impairment of large arteries, which in their opinion is due to the primary disease. the review literature reports about similar arterial involvement in scleroderma.
vasopressin response in collecting ducts of rats resistant to mineralocorticoid hypertension. in previous studies we found that vasopressin stimulation of both cyclic amp (camp) formation in cortical collecting tubules (cct) and sodium reabsorption in isolated perfused kidneys was markedly exaggerated in rats with mineralocorticoid hypertension. in the present study, we tested the response (camp accumulation) of cortical and outer medullary collecting tubules (omct) to vasopressin in two rat models that are resistant to deoxycorticosterone acetate (doca)-induced hypertension, the wistar-furth strain and nacl-deficient rats. the blood pressure of normal outbred wistar rats rose to hypertensive levels (systolic pressure more than 165 mm hg) during a 5-week treatment with doca (10 mg/week) and 1% saline to drink. significant hypertrophy of the heart and kidneys was also observed. vasopressin (10(-8) m)-induced camp formation was enhanced 3.4-fold in the cct (omct unchanged) of hypertensive rats compared with normotensive controls. significant hypertrophy (as indexed by tubule diameter) of the cct but not the omct was also observed in doca-salt hypertensive rats. restriction of dietary nacl (0.13% in chow, tap water to drink) completely prevented doca-induced hypertension, organ and cct hypertrophy, and enhancement of vasopressin-stimulated camp formation in the cct. in wistar-furth rats, doca-salt treatment did not alter blood pressure or cause significant organ hypertrophy. however, doca-salt treatment enhanced vasopressin-stimulated camp formation by 4.1-fold in cct of wistar-furth rats, with significant tubular hypertrophy in the cct but not the omct. we conclude that doca-induced hypertension and changes in cct function are dependent on excess dietary nacl.
recurrent seizures in children with shigella-associated convulsions. fifty-five children with shigella-associated convulsions were followed prospectively to investigate their risk of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile seizures. the duration of the follow-up period was between 6.9 and 14.1 years (9.7 +/- 3.1 years). no case of nonfebrile seizures and only 2 cases (3%) of subsequent febrile seizures were observed during this period. we conclude that although febrile and shigella-associated convulsions share many clinical features, the natural history of these two conditions seems to be distinctly different. shigella-related convulsions are not associated with an increased incidence of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile convulsions.
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a late-phase mediator of chronic pancreatitis in the rat. the role of platelet-activating factor (paf) as a mediator of pancreatic inflammation was examined in the rat pancreatic duct ligation model of obstructive pancreatitis. pancreatic generation of paf, as measured by bioassay (ie, platelet [3h]serotonin secretion), was determined at various times after induction of inflammation. tissue levels of paf in the normal pancreas averaged 600 +/- 49 pg/g, but paf was not detectable during the initial 24 hours of pancreatitis, a time when the inflammatory reaction would be considered acute, that is, during the period of maximal serum amylase release and the development of interstitial edema. however a substantial increase in pancreatic paf levels (12 times control levels) was observed 7 to 14 days after duct ligation during the late-phase response interval similar to the situation characteristic of chronic pancreatitis in which parenchymal atrophy, fibrosis, and pancreatic insufficiency evolve. one week after duct ligation when paf levels peaked, an evaluation was made of the effects of paf antagonists (bn52021 and web2170) on pancreatic lesions using evan's blue extravasation, pancreatic myeloperoxidase (mpo) activity, and acid phosphatase activity in peritoneal lavage fluid. bn52021 or web2170 treatment was shown to reduce pancreatic damage and inflammation significantly. long-term in vivo administration of exogenous paf (20 micrograms/kg/hr for 7 days) exhibited a reduction of [3h]thymidine uptake into and amylase release from pancreatic acini in vitro. our observations 1) that pancreatic paf levels increased significantly during the chronic phase of obstructive pancreatitis induced by duct ligation; 2) that inhibition of the action of paf, through specific receptor antagonism, caused an attenuation of pancreatic lesions; and 3) that chronic administration of paf resulted in decreased pancreatic regeneration and exocrine function are consistent with a pivotal role for paf as a late-phase inflammatory mediator in chronic pancreatitis in rats.
axial myoclonus of propriospinal origin. three patients are described with nonrhythmic repetitive axial myoclonic jerks causing symmetric flexion of the neck, trunk, hips and knees. no electrophysiological evidence of a cortical or brainstem reticular origin for the myoclonus was found. in the first patient the axial jerks only occurred spontaneously. the latencies of recruitment of spinal segments during a jerk indicated that the discharge arose in the mid thoracic cord and then slowly spread at about 5 ms-1 up and down the cord to involve rostral and caudal segments. no structural lesion was identified in this patient. in the second patient spontaneous and reflex axial jerks developed following the excision of a cervical haemangioblastoma. in the stimulus-induced jerks the relative latencies of muscles innervated by rostral and caudal spinal segments suggested that the myoclonus originated between the upper cervical and midthoracic cord. in the final patient, emg activity during spontaneous and stimulus-induced jerks commenced in the rectus abdominis, and was followed by later activity in muscles innervated by rostral spinal segments, suggesting that the myoclonus originated in the midthoracic cord. no structural lesion was identified in this patient. electrophysiological evidence is used to argue a spinal origin for these axial jerks in all 3 cases. there are striking features common both to this form of human myoclonus and to long propriospinal pathways identified in animals. the new concept of propriospinal myoclonus is suggested.
gallium-67 imaging in retroperitoneal fibrosis: significance of a negative result. a patient with retroperitoneal fibrosis and right peritracheal and hilar lymphadenopathy was studied using gallium-67-citrate. no abnormal uptake was seen in the regions of retroperitoneal fibrosis, while there was avid uptake in chest lesions later shown to represent small cell lung carcinoma. retroperitoneal fibrosis which does not show gallium uptake is most likely mature, with few inflammatory elements. in patients with multiple retroperitoneal and/or mediastinal masses, gallium imaging may be useful in identifying the most active sites of disease for possible biopsy and for subsequent monitoring of response to therapy.
angioplasty of coronary bifurcation stenoses: immediate and long-term results of the protecting branch technique. percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (ptca) of coronary stenoses involving major bifurcations carries a small but significant risk of side branch occlusion which can be avoided by simultaneously using multiple dilatation systems. among 1,275 ptca procedures performed between 1984 and 1988 in 1,035 consecutive patients, 42 double wire procedures were applied (4%) to protect and/or dilate major coronary side branches. a total of 80 coronary stenoses were attempted of which 76 were located on a bifurcation and 4 on other segments. in the first 11 patients (group a), 2 guiding catheters were used and ptca of each vessel was successfully performed by means of separate double lumen over-the-wire balloon catheters. in the next 31 patients (group b), 2 guidewires were advanced through a single guiding catheter and ptca was attempted using "monorail" balloon catheters sequentially advanced over the wires. in group b, a successful ptca was obtained in 29 patients (93%) but twisting of the wires hampered balloon progression in 5 cases, such that dilatation could only be performed by stepping back to a single wire technique. the procedure time in group b was significantly shorter than in group a: 144 +/- 30 versus 230 +/- 52 minutes (p = .01). repeat angiography was performed in 35 out of 40 patients (87%) after a mean of 180 +/- 46 days following successful ptca. angiographic restenosis was present in 37% (24/65) of bifurcation segments which, in our experience, is not significantly different from the angiographic restenosis rate in less complex lesions (248/740; 34%; ns).
results of primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. the influence of multivessel coronary artery disease on the outcome of reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction has not been fully characterized. direct coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy was performed during evolving myocardial infarction in 285 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease at 5.2 +/- 4.2 h after the onset of chest pain. two vessel disease was present in 163 patients (57%) and three vessel disease in 122 (43%). an anterior infarct was present in 123 patients (43%), cardiogenic shock in 33 (12%) and age greater than or equal to 70 years in 59 (21%). angioplasty of the infarct-related vessel was successful in 256 patients (90%), including 92% with two vessel and 88% with three vessel disease (p = ns). emergency bypass surgery was needed in six patients (2%). in-hospital death occurred in 33 patients (12%), including 13 with two vessel and 20 with three vessel disease (p less than 0.05). the mortality rate was only 4% in the subgroup of 101 patients who met entry criteria for thrombolytic trials. the in-hospital mortality rate was 45% in patients in shock and 7% in patients not in shock (p less than 0.01). logistic regression analysis identified shock and age greater than or equal to 70 years as independently associated with in-hospital death. in 135 patients who underwent predischarge left ventriculography, global ejection fraction increased from 50% to 57% (p less than 0.001) and regional wall motion in the infarct zone improved in 59% of patients. follow-up data were available in 251 patients (99%) at a mean of 35 +/- 19 months.
selective g to t mutations of p53 gene in hepatocellular carcinoma from southern africa hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is a prevalent cancer in sub-saharan africa and eastern asia. hepatitis b virus and aflatoxins are risk factors for hcc, but the molecular mechanism of human hepatocellular carcinogenesis is largely unknown. abnormalities in the structure and expression of the tumour-suppressor gene p53 are frequent in hcc cell lines, and allelic losses from chromosome 17p have been found in hccs from china and japan. here we report on allelic deletions from chromosome 17p and mutations of the p53 gene found in 50% of primary hccs from southern africa. four of five mutations detected were g----t substitutions, with clustering at codon 249. this mutation specificity could reflect exposure to a specific carcinogen, one candidate being aflatoxin b1 (ref. 7), a food contaminant in africa, which is both a mutagen that induces g to t substitution and a liver-specific carcinogen.
pachyonychia congenita complicated by hidradenitis suppurativa: a family study. a family is described in which five of the six members with the jackson-lawler type of pachyonychia congenita also had varying degrees of hidradenitis suppurativa. we suggest an association between this type of pachyonychia congenita and hidradenitis suppurativa.
thrombolytic therapy for noncoronary diseases. thrombolytic therapy has been used fairly extensively in the management of acute proximal deep-vein thrombophlebitis of the extremities, acute pulmonary embolism, and acute peripheral arterial thrombosis and embolism in addition to acute thrombotic coronary events. in the presence of acceptable indications and a favorable benefit to risk ratio, this form of therapy, when successful, has served as a useful adjunct in the management of these disorders. in deep-vein thrombophlebitis, lysis of the thrombus before permanent pathological changes (eg, organization, scarring) have occurred can prevent venous valvular dysfunction and postural venous hypertension and its complications, especially the postphlebitic syndrome. in the more severe forms of acute pulmonary embolism, thrombolytic therapy, when applied early after symptom onset, decreases morbidity and is likely to prevent a chronic increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and persistent pulmonary hypertension. in peripheral arterial thrombo-occlusive events, early restoration of flow through thrombolysis has been shown to limit ischemic damage and serve as a useful supplement to angioplasty or surgery. thrombolytic therapy has been used less extensively in acute strokes. here the danger of reperfusion causing bleeding into a softened area of brain undergoing infarction has slowed its evaluation for this disorder; its application to stroke remains experimental.
patterns of neuropsychological impairment after severe blunt head injury. a consecutive series of 100 subjects with severe blunt head injuries was followed up 6 years after trauma. neuropsychological test performances of 82 subjects and of a noninjured control group were analyzed by two principal components analyses (pcas). each pca extracted 15 factors relating to a range of cognitive impairments, as well as neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality changes. measures identified by the pcas were applied to 85 head-injured subjects in the series to examine the incidence of impairment in four neuropsychological areas: disorders of learning and memory, neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality change, slowness in rate of information processing, and a range of basic neuropsychological skills. overall, impairments occurred in 70% of the series. disorders of learning and memory were the most common type of deficit (56.5%), with disturbances in basic neuropsychological skills the least frequent (16.5%). variability among subjects with respect to the types and combinations of neuropsychological impairments was a characteristic feature of this clinical group, but the largest proportion (one-third) demonstrated isolated impairments. the implications of the incidence and selectivity of neuropsychological impairments are discussed.
mechanism of early ischemic contractile failure. inexcitability, metabolite accumulation, or vascular collapse? the basis of early ischemic contractile failure was investigated in perfused ferret hearts at 27 degrees c. isovolumic left ventricular developed pressure fell by more than 50% within 30 seconds of the onset of total global ischemia and reached zero by 5 minutes. monophasic action potential recordings revealed no decrease in excitability during this period. phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectra obtained at 30-second resolution showed no significant changes in inorganic phosphate or phosphocreatine during the first 30 seconds of ischemia. intracellular ph (phi) and atp changed even more slowly; therefore, none of these metabolites could account for the rapid fall in force. to gauge the contribution of intravascular pressure, we compared ordinary aortic flow occlusion with tissue-level ischemia induced by massive coronary microembolization at the level of the precapillary arterioles. functional depression developed significantly more slowly in the microembolized hearts, despite accumulation of inorganic phosphate and protons comparable with that in ordinary ischemia. after microembolization, the time course of functional depression reflected much more closely the concomitant inorganic phosphate and phi changes. thus, our results provide novel evidence supporting the importance of vascular collapse in the mechanism of early ischemic contractile failure.
total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years. a nine- to ten-year follow-up study. eighty-one cemented total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years were reviewed with an average 9.2-year follow-up interval. the results were compared with the same group previously reported at an average follow-up time of 4.5 years. clinically satisfactory results were 58% compared with 78% at 4.5 years. the revision rate almost tripled to 33%. impending failure was present in 56% of those hips not yet revised. in the first study, technique was a primary determinant of success. in this report there was no influence of technique on the incidence of revision. age did not influence revision rates either, with 35% in patients younger than 30 years and 32% in patients aged 30-45 years. patients younger than 30 years had fewer satisfactory clinical results and a higher rate of impending failure. as in the first study, the best results were obtained in patients with inflammatory collagen disease aged from 30 to 45 years.
comparison of gall bladder bile and endoscopically obtained duodenal bile. in 10 patients with gall stone disease (eight women, two men; mean (sd) age 47.4 (13) years), bile was obtained by endoscopic aspiration after stimulation of the gall bladder with ceruletid and also by fine needle puncture of the gall bladder under local anaesthetic. the total lipid concentration of the puncture bile samples was mean (sd) 11.9 (4.7) g/dl, significantly higher than the endoscopic bile samples (3.9 (3.3) g/dl, p less than 0.001). total bile acids, phospholipids, and biliary cholesterol (expressed in mol%) and cholesterol saturation index showed no significant differences between the two types of samples. the glycocholic acid concentration in the endoscopically obtained bile (27.7 (6.6) mol% v 23.3 (5.4) mol%; p less than 0.01) was significantly higher than the puncture bile samples. puncture bile exhibited a significantly shorter nucleation time (3.5 (3.3) days v 19.6 (11.9) days; p less than 0.001). for determination of the nucleation time, endoscopic bile aspiration after gall bladder stimulation with ceruletid led to adequately concentrated samples in 50% of the study subjects. cholesterol monohydrate crystal formation in native bile was observed in six samples of puncture bile and in three samples of the endoscopically obtained bile. the presence of cholesterol crystals and the determination of nucleation time in the puncture bile were the best discriminants between cholesterol and pigment gall stones and correlated well with computed tomogram analysis.
transient and distant infections alter later intraperitoneal abscess formation. transient nosocomial infections, such as line sepsis and pneumonia, are common in today's critical care patient population. although generally well treated, the effect of these transient antigen exposures on the immune system is unclear. we have previously shown that prior intraperitoneal inoculation with live bacteria leads to increased numbers of intraperitoneal abscesses. data presented here demonstrate in a murine model that two immunizations with live escherichia coli, bacteroides fragilis, or both, administered systemically via intracardiac injection or at a focal distant site in subcutaneous tissue, significantly increased the number of mixed e coli/b fragilis intraperitoneal abscesses when induced 1 week later. further, immunization with e coli, either alone or in combination with b fragilis, increased the total number of anaerobes recovered per mouse. transient or focal sublethal infections can significantly alter an animal's immune response to later infectious insults, particularly the formation of intraperitoneal abscesses.
latent sensitisation to respiratory syncytial virus during acute bronchiolitis and lung function after recovery. to determine whether latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen(s) occurs after infection, 27 infants with acute bronchiolitis were studied and compared with 15 hospital controls. blood was collected for whole blood challenge, and histamine release was measured by a high performance liquid chromatography technique with fluorometric detection. there was a significantly greater histamine release to respiratory syncytial virus antigen(s) in those with bronchiolitis than in controls, expressed either in amount (median 154 nmol/l compared with 104 nmol/l) or percentage release (median 20% compared with 3%). there was a significant difference between index and control groups in terms of individual histamine responses. these findings strongly suggest that infants develop latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen(s) during the course of acute bronchiolitis. serial lung function tests were performed in 15 infants. all infants had abnormalities of lung function at some stage, but the small numbers of subjects precluded comparison between 'sensitised' and 'non-sensitised' infants. further study is indicated to define the relation of latent sensitisation and subsequent bronchial hyper-responsiveness after respiratory syncytial virus infection in infants.
protective role of vitamin e in biological systems. vitamin e is well accepted as nature's most effective lipid-soluble, chain-breaking antioxidant, protecting cell membranes from peroxidative damage. free-radical-mediated pathology has been implicated in the development over time of degenerative diseases and conditions. this paper reviews the current research on the protective role and requirements for vitamin e and the other antioxidants in preventing or minimizing free-radical damage associated with specific diseases and lifestyle patterns and processes, including cancer, aging, circulatory conditions, arthritis, cataract, pollution, and strenuous exercise. while awaiting results of further human studies, research evidence suggests that an adequate intake of vitamin e and the other antioxidants can provide protection from the increasingly high free-radical concentrations caused by air pollutants and current lifestyle patterns.
alkalinisation of prilocaine for intravenous regional anaesthesia. suitability for clinical use. eighty unpremedicated patients undergoing day-case hand surgery under intravenous regional anaesthesia were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind study, either 40 ml 0.75% prilocaine hydrochloride, with 5 ml 8.4% sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml 0.9% saline. the alkalinised group had significantly less pain on injection (p = 0.0045), during surgery (p = 0.0074) and 5 minutes after the tourniquet was deflated (p = 0.0027). the time elapsed between insertion of the block and commencement of surgery was not affected.
alexia without agraphia associated with spleniogeniculate infarction. pure alexia, following an infarction in the distribution of the left posterior cerebral artery, is attributed to damage of the left occipital lobe and the splenium of the corpus callosum. we describe a case of pure alexia in a 57-year-old woman with infarction of the left lateral geniculate body and the splenium of the corpus callosum, a variation on this classic disconnection syndrome.
giant enterocystoma within an infant's tongue. a rare developmental cyst within the tongue and submandibular triangle of a male infant containing heterotopic gastric and intestinal epithelium (enterocystoma) is described and its derivation discussed. this cyst was of such a size as to cause feeding difficulties and partial airway obstruction during sleep. following c.t. scanning, total obstruction necessitated an emergency tracheostomy. successful enucleation via a median labiomandibulotomy was performed without further complication and two years later there is no sign of recurrence.
neonatal subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis: mri, ct, and ultrasound correlation. we describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor, diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. we compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor.
campylobacter pylori interactions with gastric cell tissue culture. many investigators have reported that gastric mucosal biopsies of patients with chronic gastritis and peptic ulcer disease show the presence of campylobacter pylori in a large majority of cases. histologic examinations of such tissues indicate a close approximation of c. pylori with gastric surface epithelial cells. a recent report has described both adherence and cell invasion of gastric cells by c. pylori. using a transmission electron microscope, we have examined the interaction between c. pylori, c. jejuni, and e. coli in vitro with a gastric cancer cell line, kato iii. our results indicate marked toxicity of e. coli and moderate toxicity of c. jejuni for kato iii cells. c. pylori had only a minor effect on tissue culture viability. c. pylori was found to have a strong association with the kato iii cell membranes and evidence of occasional cell invasion. both c. jejuni and e. coli showed no attachment or association with the kato iii cells. we interpret these findings as indicating that c. pylori may have a specific adhesion for gastric cells.
iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia: successful therapy with neuroma resection. we report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region. early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain, with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities. exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site, medial to the knee. resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition. it is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee. saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons. if the condition is intractable, it does respond to surgical therapy.
kaposi's sarcoma of the colon in a young hiv-negative woman with crohn's disease. we report a case of isolated colonic kaposi's sarcoma in a 36-year-old hiv-negative woman with refractory crohn's disease of the colon and perineum following 11 months' treatment with azathioprine. the clinical features of this case are quite different from those classically described in kaposi's sarcoma. among the known risk factors, iatrogenic immunosuppression would appear to be the most probable.
protection from chemotherapy-induced alopecia in a rat model. alopecia (hair loss) is among the most distressing side effects of cancer chemotherapy. little progress has been made, however, in its prevention or treatment, partly because of the lack of suitable experimental model. in recent work on the treatment of myelogenous leukemia in the rat, the following observations were made: (i) treatment of 8-day-old rats with cytosine arabinoside consistently produced alopecia, and (ii) imuvert, a biologic response modifier derived from the bacterium serratia marcescens, uniformly produced complete protection against the alopecia. in subsequent experiments, both cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin also produced alopecia in this model, and the doxorubicin-induced alopecia was prevented by treatment with imuvert. the potential relevance of these observations to chemotherapy-induced alopecia in the clinical setting should be examined.
collagenous colitis as a cause of chronic diarrhea. when the usual workup for chronic diarrhea fails to provide a diagnosis and the endoscopic findings are normal, alternative etiologies must be considered. this case of collagenous colitis represents such an alternative diagnosis. the patient is a 65-year-old woman who complained of abdominal cramps and watery diarrhea for an 8-month span. the key element to her diagnosis was subepithelial collagen deposits of the mucosa of the colon. her symptoms were resolved with supportive care, diet, and diphenoxylate. essential features and treatment of collagenous colitis are reviewed.
rhabdomyosarcoma. from the laboratory to the clinic. the prospect of identifying and developing new agents for treatment of rhabdomyosarcomas is discussed in the light of current prognosis for children with advanced stage disease. preliminary attempts to identify tumor-specific agents using in vitro cell culture show potential promise, but as yet remain unproven. the more complex system of identifying therapeutically active agents using human tumor xenografts has demonstrated usefulness. the potential problems associated with this system are discussed.
dose-dependent reduction of myocardial infarct size with the perfluorochemical fluosol-da. the perfluorochemical fluosol-da has been shown to reduce infarct size. however, the dose-response relationship of the agent is unknown. because perfluorochemicals (pfc) can potentially saturate the reticuloendothelial system and decrease carbon clearance as well as cause a transient elevation in liver enzymes, the present study was conducted to determine the lowest effective dose. new zealand white rabbits (n = 73) were randomly selected prior to infarction to receive 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 ml/kg pfc or an equivalent volume of 5% dextran (control) intravenously. animals underwent 30 minutes of coronary artery occlusion with pfc or dextran infused over a 30-minute period starting at 20 minutes into the occlusion. animals were put to death at 24 hours and infarct size was determined histologically and quantitated by computerized planimetry. neutrophil infiltration into the ischemic myocardium was evaluated semiquantitatively. no hemodynamic differences were noted within groups. infarct size was similar to that of controls in animals treated with 10 or 15 ml/kg pfc. significant infarct size reduction, however, was noted in animals treated with 20, 25, and 30 ml/kg pfc versus controls; (p = 0.05, 0.04, and 0.02, respectively). maximal infarct size reduction was seen with 30 ml/kg pfc (35%). neutrophil infiltration was significantly decreased in all groups treated with pfc. these results show that intravenous fluosol-da significantly reduces infarct size at a minimal dose of 20 ml/kg.
posterior nuchal cystic hygroma [published erratum appears in clin perinatol 1990 dec;17(4):viii] when cystic hygroma is detected antenatally, the prognosis is usually poor, and intrauterine or neonatal death are common. this seems especially true for turner syndrome (the largest etiologic group associated with cystic hygroma) and the lethal multiple pterygium syndromes. however, some fetuses with turner syndrome, and also with certain other diagnoses, had a good outcome, and further study of these conditions is required before more definite prognostic indicators and risk figures will be available. increasing numbers of syndromes are being reported in association with fetal cystic hygroma, and lymphedema may be a common element in their pathogenesis. mild, short-lived, or otherwise uncomplicated jugular lymphatic obstruction may be a cause of the neck webbing seen in the noonan, familial pterygium colli, and distichiasis-lymphedema syndromes. with earlier and more widespread fetal ultrasonography, and more sensitive techniques, a greater number of resolving fetal cases may be reported. this may clarify the natural history and provide prospective criteria for the conditions that have better prognoses. the associated conditions include autosomal dominant and recessive genetic traits. careful ultrasound study for other malformations, polyhydramnios and fetal growth parameters, a fetal karyotype, and, if appropriate, pathologic examination are required to determine the etiology and recurrence risk. the parents should be asked about exposure to alcohol or other agents and should be examined for signs of pterygium colli or noonan syndrome. if the decision is made to continue the pregnancy, and there is doubt about the natural history and prognosis, multi-disciplinary supervision should include social services, neonatology, pediatric surgery, cardiology, and genetics specialties when indicated.
magnetic resonance imaging and computer tomography of acute spinal cord trauma. spinal cord lesions are not detectable on roentgenograms and computed tomography (ct) scans. magnetic resonance images (mris) are able to make soft-tissue lesions visible. interpretations of mris, ct scans, and roentgenograms were compared in 25 patients and three postmortem specimens with spinal cord injuries. in 14 patients and one specimen with normal roentgenograms and ct scans, the mri demonstrated ten soft-tissue injuries as minimal displacement of the vertebral bodies or as a high signal intensity in the disc space, indicating a hematoma. seven of the ten patients demonstrating soft-tissue injuries also had an intramedullary lesion, while in five of the 15 patients with normal ct scans, only a medullary lesion was present on mri. in 11 patients and two postmortem specimens, fractures were seen on roentgenograms and ct scans. in these patients, the ct was superior to the mri in detecting small bony fragments, but the medullary lesions were visible only on the mris. an intramedullary low signal intensity corresponded to macroscopically visible hemorrhages in the three postmortem specimens. the mri provided important information in patients with neurologic deficits. no obvious pathologic changes were evident on the roentgenograms and ct scans. the mri also demonstrated intramedullary and extramedullary soft-tissue lesions and was useful in establishing a diagnosis and in choosing appropriate therapy. ct, on the other hand, was superior in detecting small bony fragments and fracture lines.
the effect of abdominal surgery on the serum concentration of the tumour-associated antigen ca 125. the ca 125 assay is used to monitor the course of disease in women with adenocarcinoma of the genital tract. we measured serum ca 125 levels longitudinally in three different groups of patients who had normal serum ca 125 levels (less than or equal to 16 u/ml) before extensive intraperitoneal abdominal surgery (group 1, second-look laparotomy in 28 women with ovarian cancer; group 2, radical hysterectomy in 42 patients with cervical cancer; group 3, 13 men and one woman who had aortic surgery for atherosclerotic occlusive disease or aneurysm formation). following surgery, rising serum ca 125 levels were observed in 69 out of the 84 patients (82%), irrespective of the primary diagnosis, type of operation or sex. the highest levels were found during the second week after the operation (range 3-336 u/ml) and decreased gradually thereafter, to become normal at 8 weeks after surgery. it was concluded that abdominal surgery interferes with the specificity of ca 125 as a tumour marker during the early postoperative period.
influences of angiotensin on renal function in renal vascular hypertension. the scope and the magnitude of the roles which angiotensin plays in the generation and maintenance of elevated blood pressure in models of renal vascular hypertension are continuing to expand. it is now clear that specific angiotensin dependent mechanisms contribute importantly to the pathophysiology of hypertension and altered renal function in models of two-kidney, one clip hypertension in rats. the generation of angiotensin in the local intrarenal environment of the kidney is a new and potentially important mechanism contributing to altered renal function in these models. application of antagonists of the renin-angiotensin system to rat models of renal vascular hypertension indicate that the effects of angiotensin attenuate renal hemodynamic and excretory behavior, particularly in the nonclipped kidney. further, angiotensin may attenuate the efficiency of autoregulation of renal hemodynamics in the nonclipped kidney. evidence that inhibition of angiotensin reverses or improves these altered hemodynamic and excretory functions indicate that angiotensin may contribute importantly to the pathophysiology of hypertension in these models by altering or impairing the ability of the nonclipped or normal kidney to excrete sodium and volume.
apical aortic cannulation: application of an old method with new paraphernalia. an instrument assembly consisting of a special aortic cross-clamp and double-lumen perfusion cannula is presented. the application of these instruments allows occlusion of the ascending aorta traversed by the perfusion cannula inserted directly or through the apex of the heart as well as simultaneous left ventricular venting.
grinspan's syndrome: a drug-induced phenomenon? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension are reported. because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa, the question arises as to whether grinspan's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome.
timing and triggers of transient myocardial ischemia. use of exercise tolerance testing and new techniques of ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring to more objectively measure myocardial ischemia have enabled clinicians to better recognize the magnitude, timing and variable characteristics of transient ischemic events. these commonly occurring events in patients with coronary artery disease have a diurnal pattern strikingly similar to that reported for catastrophic cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death and stroke. whether those factors that contribute to reversible ischemic events are similar to those causing infarction and sudden death has not been resolved. however, the parallel increase in morning activity for these related phenomena suggests that a better understanding of the triggers of reversible myocardial ischemia may help improve understanding of the causes of myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death.
early cerebral infarction: gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement gadopentetate dimeglumine was administered prospectively to 50 patients who presented for magnetic resonance (mr) imaging within 2 weeks after a cortical cerebral infarction. twenty-two patients (44%) were imaged within 3 days after clinical ictus. abnormalities detected with gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement were observed in 46 (92%) of 50 patients. classic parenchymal enhancement was a late finding, observed in all patients (17 of 17) imaged at 7-14 days after infarction. before this time, three additional phases of contrast material-related abnormalities were observed. enhancement of vessels supplying the infarct ("intravascular enhancement sign") was the earliest finding, seen in 17 (77%) of 22 infarcts aged 1-3 days. from day 2 to day 6, abnormal enhancement of meninges adjacent to the infarct was frequently noted ("meningeal enhancement sign"). finally, a transition phase that combined intravascular or meningeal enhancement with early parenchymal enhancement was seen from day 3 to day 6. gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging in early stroke reveals evidence of vascular engorgement and sluggish flow, which precede the development of classic parenchymal enhancement.
perinatal mortality rates in isolated general practitioner maternity units objective--to determine the perinatal mortality rate among normally formed, singleton babies with birth weights greater than or equal to 2500 g in bath health district based on the intended place of delivery at the time of onset of labour or at the time of diagnosis of intrauterine death. design--the numbers of live births and stillbirths were collected monthly returns from the maternity units concerned. deaths of infants aged less than or equal to 1 week were collected in the same returns. the intended place of delivery was confirmed at the monthly perinatal mortality meeting, during which maternal and fetal factors were discussed. setting--a rural health district of 400,000 population where one third of all deliveries occurred in seven isolated general practitioner maternity units, 8% in the integrated general practitioner unit, and the remainder in the consultant unit. subjects--all babies of women whose deliveries were booked in the district before the onset of labour or the diagnosis of intrauterine death, excluding twins, babies with lethal congenital malformations, and those less than 2500 g. main outcome measures--outcome of all deliveries and parity of mothers. results--14,415 deliveries were analysed. the perinatal mortality rate was 2.8/1000 births in the consultant unit (7950 deliveries), 4.8 in the isolated general practitioner units (5237 deliveries), and zero in the integrated general practitioner unit (1228 deliveries). perinatal deaths attributable to asphyxia were more common in the isolated general practitioner units (1.5 per 1000) than the consultant unit (0.6 per 1000). the perinatal mortality rate among babies born to nulliparous women was 3.2/1000 births in the consultant unit and 5.7 in the isolated general practitioner units; for those born to multigravid women it was 2.4 and 4.2 respectively. conclusions--the outcome of delivery was not influenced by parity. both antenatal and intrapartum care were responsible for the higher perinatal mortality rate in the isolated general practitioner units. the integrated unit, which shared midwifery staff with the consultant unit, seemed to work well. analysis by intended place of delivery at the time of onset of labour or diagnosis of intrauterine death suggested that the care given in isolated units needs to be improved, perhaps by better training of general practitioners and consultant supervision of antenatal care.
anal ulcerations due to cytomegalovirus in patients with aids. report of six cases. lesions due to cytomegalovirus (cmv) are frequent in the immunocompromised patient. this is particularly the case in patients with aids, where the colon and rectum are the regions most often involved. the authors report six cases of anal ulcerations due to cmv in patients with aids. these lesions, confirmed histologically, were either isolated or associated with other localizations. treatment is based on specific antiviral agents but resistance and recurrence can occur. the current report underlines the importance of histologic examination of anal lesions in hiv-infected subjects.
occlusion of an "accessory" distal anterior cerebral artery during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms. report of two cases. two cases are presented in which clip occlusion of a third distal anterior cerebral artery segment occurred during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms. case histories, angiograms, operative descriptions, and postmortem findings are presented. the incidence of this anomalous vessel is reviewed. preoperative and intraoperative vigilance in determining the presence of this anomaly prior to clip placement is emphasized.
rural-urban differences in stage at diagnosis. possible relationship to cancer screening. stage at diagnosis was examined for various malignancies identifiable through screening to determine whether rural-urban differences exist in georgia. data were obtained from a population-based cancer registry which registers all incident cancers among residents of metropolitan atlanta and ten neighboring rural counties. black and white patients with a first primary invasive malignancy newly diagnosed between 1978 and 1985 were included in this study. residents of the rural area were twice as likely to have unstaged cancers (18.3%) as were urban residents (9.6%). among patients with known stage at diagnosis, rural patients tended to have more advanced disease than urban patients. the relative excess of nonlocalized malignancies in rural georgia was 21% for whites and 37% for blacks. the rural excess of nonlocalized prostate cancer among blacks was especially pronounced. differences in access to or utilization of early detection methods may contribute to the rural-urban differential in the extent of disease at diagnosis.
diagnostic relevance of clonal cytogenetic aberrations in malignant soft-tissue tumors. background. malignant soft-tissue tumors often present substantial diagnostic challenges. chromosome aberrations that might be diagnostic have been identified in some types of soft-tissue tumors, but the overall frequency and diagnostic relevance of these aberrations have not been established. methods. we attempted to determine the karyotypes of a series of 62 consecutive, unselected malignant spindle-cell or small round-cell soft-tissue tumors (from 46 adults and 16 children) after direct harvesting of cells or short-term culture. all tumors were examined independently by immunohistochemical staining in addition to routine light-microscopical evaluation, and all but two tumors were examined by electron microscopy. results. metaphases were obtained from 61 of the 62 tumors, and clonal chromosome aberrations were identified in 55 (89 percent). in the six tumors that yielded metaphases but lacked apparent clonal aberrations, the normal metaphases were found to originate from non-neoplastic stromal elements within the tumor specimens. thus, all tumors in which karyotyping was successful contained clonal chromosome aberrations. forty of 62 tumors (65 percent) contained clonal chromosome aberrations that either suggested or confirmed a specific diagnosis; in 15 of these tumors (24 percent of all tumors), the aberrations were important in establishing the final diagnosis. cytogenetic analyses were particularly informative about small round-cell tumors from children: 8 of 14 round-cell tumors contained diagnostically important chromosome aberrations. using the combined approaches of light and electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and cytogenetics, we established an unambiguous diagnosis for 60 of 62 tumors. conclusions. cytogenetic analyses reveal clonal chromosome aberrations in virtually all malignant soft-tissue tumors. these clonal chromosome aberrations, particularly in small round-cell tumors in children, often have diagnostic relevance.
ethanol causes accelerated g1 arrest in differentiating hl-60 cells. the effects of clinically relevant ethanol concentrations on myeloid differentiation in the hl-60 cell promyelocytic leukemia line have been studied. the exposure of noninduced stem cells to 60 mm ethanol results in an increase in g1 cells, but there is no increase in superoxide production or expression of the mo1 antigen. when hl-60 cells are induced to differentiate along the myeloid line with dimethylsulfoxide (dmso) or retinoic acid (ra), there is a shift to smaller cell size, an increase in g1 cells and acquisition of the ability to produce superoxide as reported previously by several authors. when ethanol is present during differentiation, there are further increases in g1 cells, and increases in the percentage of cells which produce superoxide and express mo1, and decreases in mean cell size and total growth during the incubation period. regrowth experiments after periods of differentiation indicate that the increased g1 arrest seen in the presence of ethanol represents terminal commitment if inducer is present, but in the absence of inducer the increased g1 percentage is readily reversible. examination of rna content by flow cytometry reveals a decrease in both the peak and mean g1 rna content during dmso or ra induced differentiation. these decreases are accentuated by the presence of ethanol, resulting in a higher g1a/g1b ratio than in nonexposed cells. these findings indicate that ethanol enhances g1 growth arrest in hl-60 cells exposed to myeloid inducers. partial differentiation occurs during this process, resulting in terminally arrested cells, some of which have undergone fewer postinduction cell divisions than normal and may not be fully competent.
progression of native coronary artery disease at 10 years: insights from a randomized study of medical versus surgical therapy for angina. repeat coronary angiography was performed in 42 patients 10 years after randomization to medical (n = 21) or surgical (n = 21) therapy for chronic angina. the native coronary arteries were classified into 15 angiographic segments and 3 arterial trunks for analysis of progression of coronary artery disease. the incidence rate of disease progression in coronary segments was 24% and 28% in medically and surgically treated patients, respectively (p = ns). grafted segments showed a 38% rate of disease progression, which was higher than the 18% rate of for nongrafted segments (p less than 0.001) and the overall rate of 24% for medically treated patients (p less than 0.01). similarly, 29 (94%) of 31 grafted arteries exhibited disease progression compared with 19 (59%) of 32 nongrafted arteries (p less than 0.01) and 42 (67%) of 63 arteries in medically treated patients (p less than 0.01). in grafted vessels, disease progression occurred more often in arteries proximal (84%) to the anastomosis than in arteries distal (16%) to graft insertion (p less than 0.001). progression occurred in 46% of proximal segments compared with 23% of distal segments (p less than 0.02). progression was seen in 23 (55%) of 43 segments with an occluded graft compared with 30 (31%) of 96 segments with a patent graft (p less than 0.02). ten years after randomization, medically and surgically treated patients showed a comparable rate of disease progression in coronary segments. however, surgical therapy appeared to significantly accelerate atherosclerotic progression in the grafted vessels, especially in the proximal portions. occluded grafts also correlated with an adverse effect on disease progression.
esophageal motility in an adult with a congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula. congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistulas (tef) are rare. long-standing respiratory symptoms are the most common presenting complaints. patients with these fistulas have a congenital esophageal motor abnormality characterized by uncoordinated, low-amplitude peristalsis of the esophageal body; both low and normal lower esophageal sphincter pressures have been described. these findings persist despite fistula repair. a case history of an adult patient with congenital tef is presented and the literature is reviewed. this patient is unusual in that esophageal symptoms (dysphagia) were more prominent than the usual respiratory symptoms.
diurnal fluctuations of arterial ketone body ratio in normal subjects and patients with liver dysfunction. to explore the metabolic aspects of chronic liver disease, diurnal changes of arterial ketone body ratio (acetoacetate/3-hydroxybutyrate), reflecting hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were investigated in normal subjects, patients with chronic liver disease (child's class a or b), and patients with hepatic failure (child's class c). ketone body ratio in normal subjects increased after breakfast from 0.96 to 2.00, after lunch from 2.17 to 2.38, and after dinner from 1.23 to 2.55 with blood glucose level ranging from 103 to 141 mg/dl (5.7 to 7.8 mmol/l). by contrast, the ketone body ratio in the child a or b group changed little and remained within a range of 0.70-1.35 despite a large change in blood glucose level from 102 to 176 mg/dl (5.7 to 9.8 mmol/l). ketone body ratio in child's class c remained near or below 0.4 with no response to glucose administration, despite a marked elevation in blood glucose level. these results indicate that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential undergoes diurnal changes in sharp response to meals in normal liver function but that these fluctuations are absent in patients with liver damage (child's class a, b, and c). furthermore, it remains at low levels in severe liver failure (child's class c). it is also suggested that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential plays an important role in the regulation of blood glucose levels.
blood pressure reactivity predicts myocardial infarction among treated hypertensive patients. high blood pressure (bp) defines a prognostically heterogeneous group. because bp varies according to time, setting and means of observation, it has been postulated that bp reactivity might better predict cardiovascular disease (cvd) than does unidimensional measurements. to assess bp reactivity, the difference between pretreatment nurse (rn) and physician (md) diastolic bp (dbp)--systematically recorded in that order--or md-rn dbp, was obtained in 1737 previously untreated patients with sustained, rn bp greater than or equal to 160 and/or 95 mmhg. patients stratified by tertiles of md-rn dbp [(i) less than or equal to - 3, (ii) -2 to 3 and (iii) greater than or equal to 4 mmhg] were similar by sex, race, age, body mass index, cholesterol, electrocardiography, prior cvd, smoking and pretreatment or attained in-treatment bps. during 14 years of followup, myocardial infarction (mi) incidence per 1000/year were, tertile i (3.2), ii (3.7), iii (7.6) (relative risk = 2.4, iii vs i + ii, p less than 0.05), whereas stroke incidence and non-cvd mortality were evenly distributed. by cox survival analysis, controlling for other entry characteristics only age, sex and dbp reactivity remained predictive (p less than or equal to 0.03) of mi or total cvd. thus, bp reactivity, probably a centrally-mediated phenomenon, identifies a subgroup of hypertensives with an increased propensity for mi despite successful bp control.
infection with chlamydia pneumoniae in brooklyn. of 91 children and adults with lower respiratory tract infection, 17 (18.7%) had evidence of infection with chlamydia pneumoniae. infection was more common in older adolescents and adults than in children. only 3 of 8 culture-positive patients with paired sera had serologic evidence of acute infection. two patients were culture positive over a 12-month period. two other culture-positive patients had evidence of coinfection with other bacterial respiratory tract pathogens, which in these cases appeared to be responsible for the acute episode of pneumonia. patterns of infection ranged from acute pneumonia to apparent chronic asymptomatic carriage, and there was no characteristic clinical presentation. studies using cultures in other populations, including asymptomatic individuals, are needed for a better understanding of the epidemiology and clinical relevance of this organism.
molecular biology in cardiology: recent developments and opportunities for clinical applications. the revolution in molecular biology that has taken place in the last decade has provided powerful research methods that are changing our understanding of cardiovascular physiology and disease. this editorial commentary will highlight several areas of current research activity within the broad and expanding field of molecular cardiology, with a special emphasis on prospects for clinical applications in cardiovascular medicine.
takayasu's disease with axillary, right coronary artery, and right internal mammary stenosis treated with angioplasty. a 47-year-old woman presented with progressive angina and failed medical therapy. after an unsuccessful attempt at angioplasty of a totally occluded right coronary artery, coronary artery bypass using the right internal mammary artery was performed. she presented 2 years later with stenosis in the mammary graft, right coronary artery, and axillary artery. these lesions were all treated with angioplasty.
failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome. we evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear. in addition to a thorough history, physical examination, local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder. in 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors, and in 28 operative errors; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct. subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker's compensation benefit had a 75% success rate, whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46%.
management of subglottic stenosis in the adult. twenty-one adult patients were surgically treated for severe subglottic stenosis refractory to endoscopic treatment. patients were treated by anterior or anterior and posterior cricoid division with costal cartilage grafting. seventy-six percent of the patients were successfully decannulated. success of treatment was not dependent on cause of the stenosis or age or sex of the patient. there was a significantly better outcome (p less than .05) in patients with isolated subglottic stenosis versus those with combined glottic and subglottic stenosis.
ischaemic heart disease among men in norway during the period 1966-1985: two counties with different mortality time trends. we have examined regional differences in mortality from ischaemic heart disease, including sudden, unexpected death (ihd/sud), among norwegian men aged 30-69 years, during the period 1966-1985. mortality time trends were considered. the two counties with the most widely differing ihd/sud mortality time trends were rogaland and oppland. rogaland, located in south-western norway, experienced a 24.1% ihd/sud mortality rate decrease between 1966-1970 and 1981-1985, while oppland, in central south-eastern norway, experienced a mortality rate increase of 12.4%. marked regional differences within these counties were found. the highest ihd/sud mortality rate increase occurred in rural areas of oppland. urban areas of rogaland had sharply decreasing rates. knowledge of such regional mortality differences could provide useful information regarding aetiological factors and serve as a basis for preventive measures and health-care planning.
survey of the use of thrombolysis for acute limb ischaemia in the uk and ireland. a total of 156 vascular surgeons from the uk and ireland responded to a postal questionnaire on the use of thrombolysis in acute limb ischaemia. almost half had used thrombolysis in the previous 12 months. low dose intra-arterial streptokinase (89 per cent) was the regimen most frequently used, but 33 per cent had used intravenous streptokinase. detailed results for 103 patients (limb salvage rate 60 per cent, amputation rate 35 per cent, mortality rate 5 per cent) were similar to those of previously published reports. complications in most series were infrequent, but in the entire survey there were six bleeding-related deaths and one death from anaphylaxis. a total of 67 per cent of surgeons with working experience indicated that selected patients with acute arterial thromboses were most suitable for thrombolysis, particularly if there was no neurological deficit and no run-off for surgical bypass. distal or late emboli and graft occlusions were regarded as appropriate by some surgeons. this study demonstrated that many vascular surgeons currently use thrombolysis, although sparingly and in selected cases. patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by experienced vascular surgeons who are aware of the new therapeutic alternatives, an ideal supported by almost three-quarters of respondents to this survey.
hemopump support for the failing heart. under fluoroscopy, the hemopump is passed through the aortic valve into the left ventricle through a gortex (wf gore, denver, co) chimney sewn to a surgically exposed femoral artery. the system aspirates the left ventricular blood and actively pumps it into the aorta. five patients (four men, one woman), aged 47-71 years (mean, 62 years), were candidates for hemopump support because of refractory cardiogenic shock. three were recovering from repeated coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery, and two required postoperative emergency cabg for failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). one patient died during insertion, and four had the hemo-pump successfully placed. all patients had low cardiac out-put and had intraaortic balloons in place. average insertion time took 20 min, with maintenance on the hemopump for an average of 13 hr. one patient was maintained on the hemopump for 12 hr, but because of continued deterioration, was placed on a total artificial heart (harvik 7-70). patients 3 (hemopump inserted transthoracically) and 4 had the hemopump discontinued because of brain death, and the fifth survived. this patient is alive and working 1 yr later. the hemopump is an effective left ventricular support system that is less invasive than conventional transthoracic systems.
value of retesting subjects with a positive hemoccult in screening for colorectal cancer. within a prospective randomized screening study for early detection of colorectal cancer with rehydrated hemoccult ii test, the possibility of increasing the specificity of the test by retesting patients with an initially positive hemoccult ii test was investigated. of those offered the test 3561 (62.6 per cent) returned it and it was positive in 210 cases (5.9 per cent). the repeat test was performed by 184 patients and was positive in 68 (1.9 per cent). all those with a positive initial test had rectosigmoidoscopy to 60 cm and a double contrast enema. a carcinoma was found in one in seven patients with a positive retest but in only one in 100 patients with a negative retest (p less than 0.001). the specificity of the test was, therefore, increased from 95 per cent to 98 per cent and the sensitivity was unchanged. rescreening was offered at a later date and increased numbers were available: 7147 patients returned the test and 369 (5.2 per cent) were positive. the test was repeated in 360 patients and 118 (1.7 per cent) were positive. a colorectal neoplasm was found in one in three of those with a positive repeat test, compared with one in seven of those with a negative repeat test. in conclusion, screening for early detection of colorectal cancer with a rehydrated hemoccult ii test may be followed by investigation of only those patients with a positive retest. such a procedure will reduce the work-load by 60 per cent without reducing sensitivity.
myelopathy presenting decades after surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions. we report on two patients in whom cervical myelopathy developed decades after they had undergone surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions. preoperative magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated dorsal tethering and cavitation of the cervical cord in the area of the previous surgery and was helpful in decision making regarding surgical exploration and in planning for it. we stress the importance of long-term follow-up by both clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in children who have been operated on for cervical cutaneous masses that may have central connections.
benign lymphangioendothelioma. we have studied eight cases of an acquired lymphatic endothelial lesion for which we propose the name "benign lymphangioendothelioma." the lesions developed as solitary, slowly extending, erythematous macules and plaques, usually occurring on the extremities or the shoulders in adolescents or adults. the characteristic histopathologic feature is permeation of the dermal collagen by flattened, endothelium-lined channels and spaces. hemorrhage, iron deposition, and inflammation were not part of the lesion. ulex europaeus agglutinin i labeled the lesional endothelial cells consistently, but factor viii-related antigen labeling was negative. this histologic pattern and the special studies suggested a lymphatic lesion. surgical excision, performed in six patients, was not followed by recurrence.
splenic septic emboli in endocarditis. the significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement. to determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli, we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the university of illinois hospital from 1980 through 1988. intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68% (n = 73). the incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19% (n = 20), but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38% (n = 11) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms. streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85% (n = 17). localized findings were absent in 90% of splenic infarcts and abscesses. abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100%. no patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass. splenectomy was performed in 50% (n = 10) of patients 3-24 days (mean, 11.2 days) after valve replacement. indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60% (n = 6), large (greater than 2 cm) and peripheral lesions in 30% (n = 3), and splenic rupture in 10% (n = 1). perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30% (n = 3). the following conclusions can be drawn: 1) splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis. 2) abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients.
omeprazole 20 mg three days a week and 10 mg daily in prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse. double-blind comparative trial. in a double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial of 195 patients with duodenal ulcers who after a short-term study had relief of pain and healed ulcers proved endoscopically, 65 were randomized to receive 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week (once in the morning from friday to sunday), 64 to receive 10 mg omeprazole once daily in the morning, and 66 to receive placebo for up to 6 months. the patients underwent repeat endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric fundic mucosa (qualitative assessment of argyrophilic cell population), assessment of symptoms, and laboratory screening with measurement of basal serum gastrin concentrations at 3 and 6 months or more often if indicated by recurrence of symptoms. at 3 months, endoscopically proved ulcer relapse occurred in 16% receiving 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week; 21% receiving 10 mg omeprazole daily; and 50% receiving placebo. at 6 months, corresponding rates were 23%, 27%, and 67% with 95% confidence intervals of difference between the placebo group and omeprazole groups of 28%-60% and 24%-56% (p less than 0.00001), respectively, and between omeprazole groups of -19%-11% (ns). no major clinical or laboratory side effects were noted. thus both omeprazole regimens are effective and safe in preventing duodenal ulcer relapse.
the child with recurrent syncope: autonomic function testing and beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity. recurrent syncope in the child with a normal heart poses both diagnostic and therapeutic problems. to assess autonomic contributions to syncope, formal autonomic function testing was performed in 22 children (aged 7 to 18 years) with recurrent syncope and a normal heart. autonomic testing consisted of eight to nine separate tests; 14 of the 22 patients had reproduction of syncope or symptoms during testing. patients with a positive test had a lower norepinephrine level while supine (334 +/- 86 versus 547 +/- 169 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and lower norepinephrine level in the upright position (628 +/- 219 versus 891 +/- 270 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) than did patients with a negative test. the slope of heart rate response versus log isoproterenol dose was greater in patients with a positive test than in those with a negative test (1.70 +/- 0.70 versus 0.89 +/- 0.19, p less than 0.01). all five patients with a positive test who were given intravenous propranolol had elimination of syncope with repeat testing. eight of 10 patients with a positive test were successfully treated with atenolol, including 2 patients without prior resolution of symptoms after pacemaker implantation for symptoms attributed to bradycardia. beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity may cause recurrent syncope in young patients. inappropriate heart rate response to standing may elicit the bezold-jarisch reflex, resulting in bradycardia or hypotension, or both, in some patients. beta-adrenergic blockade is of benefit in many of these patients.
clostridial bacteremia in cancer patients. a 12-year experience. over 12 years, 136 episodes of bacteremia caused by clostridial species were documented. eighty-three were monomicrobial, and 53 were polymicrobial. gastrointestinal, genitourinary carcinomas, and acute leukemia were the most common underlying malignancies. septic shock occurred in 29% of monomicrobial bacteremias and 45% of polymicrobial bacteremias and was associated with a high mortality rate. acute hemolysis, gas gangrene, and diffuse spreading cellulitis occurred infrequently but were associated with a 100% fatality rate. many infections caused by clostridium perfringens and c. septicum were associated with abdominal disease. the most commonly isolated organism was c. perfringens, followed by c. septicum and c. sporogenes. overall survival was 58%, but it was 66% for monomicrobial episodes and 45% for polymicrobial infections. all of the patients with bacteremia due to an aerobic gram-negative bacillus in addition to the clostridial species died of their infection. the most effective antibiotics were clindamycin, penicillin, metronidazole, and moxalactam. surgical drainage of abscesses was an important component of therapy.
the effect of local temperature versus sympathetic tone on digital perfusion in raynaud's phenomenon. matched groups of 7 to 8 patients with primary raynaud's phenomenon, systemic sclerosis, and undifferentiated connective tissue disease and cold-tolerant normal control subjects were studied by simultaneous digital strain gauge plethysmography and laser doppler capillary velocimetry during two controlled cycles of hand warming and cooling with and without addition of central cooling and during clinical maneuvers to evoke sympathetic tone. transient vasoconstrictor responses of comparable degree could be evoked in all patient groups and in both the arterial and microvascular beds. while the addition of central cooling had little influence on arterial flow, patients with systemic sclerosis manifested a failure to maintain nutritive perfusion at finger temperatures associated with raynaud's phenomenon. linear regression and multivariate analysis suggested that finger temperature was the principal determinant of arterial flow in systemic sclerosis and that arterial flow was the principal determinant of microvascular perfusion. the inability of patients with systemic sclerosis to maintain nutritive flow in the face of either reflex or cold-induced proximal arterial constriction is consistent with their clinical propensity to ischemic tissue injury and separates these patients physiologically from other forms of raynaud's phenomenon.
a seromuscular stripping method to create a nipple valve without metal stapling for continent urinary reservoir. urinary continence with a kock or mainz pouch is achieved by a nipple valve of the invaginated ileum which is usually fixed with metal staples. however, metal staples can cause various complications as a foreign body. the seromuscular stripping method, a new technique to create a nipple valve, was applied to 17 patients with bladder cancer in the construction of a continent urinary reservoir by the ileocolonic pouch (mainz pouch). metal staples were not used. the results were satisfactory except for 2 patients who became incontinent because of prolapse of the nipple in one and insufficient valve function due to ischemic change of the nipple valve in the other. histology of the nipple valve from an autopsy case showed a good double layer nipple valve that functioned well to preserve continence.
resting and total energy expenditure in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. patients with inflammatory bowel disease often present with weight loss. among possible causes, an elevated energy expenditure has frequently been suggested but is the least documented. in this study resting metabolic rate (rmr) and total daily energy expenditure (tdee) were measured in 15 outpatients with inflammatory bowel diseases and in eight healthy control subjects. measured rmr as a percentage of that predicted from fat-free mass was not significantly different for control subjects (102 +/- 9.8%, mean +/- sd) and patients (100 +/- 13.3%). tdee, expressed as a multiple of rmr, was 1.70 +/- 0.31 for control subjects and 1.78 +/- 0.24 for patients. when patients were subgrouped as greater than or equal to 90% or less than 90% desirable body weight, a mean increase over rmr predicted from fat-free mass was seen in the underweight patients (106 +/- 9.3%) but not in normal-weight patients (99.0 +/- 15.6%). mean tdee/rmr values for the patient subgroups were 1.70 +/- 0.30 and 1.88 +/- 0.08, respectively. we conclude that stable outpatients with inflammatory bowel disease have only a minimal increase in energy needs.
dementia, depression, or grief? the differential diagnosis. depression, grief, and dementia are conditions frequently encountered among the community-living elderly. this review offers a primary care perspective of the distinguishing features for each and discusses the special issues of managing the elderly. major depression in the elderly usually responds to antidepressant medication, whether the depression occurs alone (endogenous) or as a response to another condition (reactive).
irritant and sensitizing potential of copper, mercury and tin salts in experimental contact stomatitis of rat oral mucosa. hgcl2, cuso4, sncl2, sncl4 or sodium lauryl sulphate (sls) were openly applied to rat oral mucosa for 1 min, followed 6 h later by histologic examination of the tissue response. granulocytes were the predominant inflammatory cells and no lymphocytic infiltration could be seen with any of the substances tested. irritant threshold levels were defined histologically for each of the substances. cuso4 was found to be non-irritant at all concentrations. the addition of non-irritant concentrations of sls lowered the threshold levels for hgcl2 and sncl2, but cuso4/sls was non-irritant at all concentrations tested. preapplication to the mucosa of sls at non-irritant concentrations gave results with hgcl2, sncl2 and cuso4 similar to those with sls added to the metal salt solutions. lesions of allergic contact type could not be induced in the oral mucosa to any of the metal salt preparations.
graft stenosis: justification for 1-year surveillance. in all, 412 femorodistal grafts (femoropopliteal and femorocrural), performed between 1984 and 1988, have been prospectively studied at 6 weeks and 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after operation and at intervals of 6 months thereafter by duplex scanning and intravenous digital subtraction angiography. the overall incidence of stenoses was 16 per cent (femorocrural 20 per cent, femoropopliteal 15 per cent). all stenoses were detected in the first year after operation and none occurred after this. twenty-four non-haemodynamically significant stenoses were not treated but were followed at intervals of 3 months. forty-two haemodynamically significant stenoses were detected and secondary procedures were performed in 30 grafts at a mean of 8 months after surgery. thirteen had percutaneous balloon dilatation and six (46 per cent) remain patent at a mean follow-up of 22 months. two grafts which occluded within 30 days and three which restenosed at a mean of 8 months had tertiary procedures. seventeen grafts were surgically revised, nine with patch grafts and eight with bypass grafts. eleven of these remain patent at a mean follow-up of 30 months. one occluded immediately and three occluded late. two grafts which restenosed at a mean of 19 months had successful tertiary procedures. in total, seven grafts had tertiary procedures (two had balloon dilatation and five had surgery) and six of these remain patent at a mean follow-up of 13.5 months. in conclusion, 37 procedures have been performed on 30 grafts, of which 23 (77 per cent) remain patent at a mean follow-up of 12 months. approximately one-quarter of femorodistal grafts will develop graft-related stenoses and graft surveillance is worthwhile, but only for the first year after operation.
dexamethasone in the prevention of postextubation stridor in children. to assess whether there is any advantage in the use of corticosteroid to prevent postextubation stridor in children, we conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial of dexamethasone versus saline solution. the patients were evaluated and then randomly selected to receive either dexamethasone or saline solution according to a stratification based on risk factors for postextubation stridor: age, duration of intubation, upper airway trauma, circulatory compromise, and tracheitis. dexamethasone, 0.5 mg/kg, was given every 6 hours for a total of six doses beginning 6 to 12 hours before and continuing after endotracheal extubation in a pediatric intensive care setting. there was no statistical difference in incidence of postextubation stridor in the two groups; 23 of 77 children in the placebo group and 16 of 76 in the dexamethasone group had stridor requiring therapy (p = 0.21). we conclude that the routine use of corticosteroids for the prevention of postextubation stridor during uncomplicated pediatric intensive care airway management is unwarranted.
diagnosis of abdominal masses with percutaneous biopsy guided by ultrasound objective--to assess the accuracy and safety of percutaneous biopsy of abdominal masses guided by ultrasound. design--prospective study. setting--combined gastroenterology service, scarborough hospital. patients--108 consecutive patients identified as having a discrete mass on diagnostic ultrasound examination of the abdomen. intervention--a sample of tissue was obtained with an aseptic technique under local anaesthesia: an 18 steel wire gauge needle (tru-cut) was mounted in a spring loaded firing device (biopty gun) that was advanced under simultaneous ultrasound scanning, permitting precise localisation of the target organ. main outcome measure--results of histological examination of tissue specimens. results--biopsy failed in four patients. adequate histological specimens were obtained in 104 patients with masses in the liver (31), pancreas (37), kidney (10), and adrenal glands (six) and in 20 undiagnosed abdominal and retroperitoneal masses. follow up was until death or confirmation of the diagnosis. three complications but no deaths occurred. malignancy was suspected in 84 patients before biopsy. this was confirmed in 70 patients, in 26 of whom confirmation of dissemination obviated the need for further investigation. in 10 patients biopsy indicated a previously unsuspected primary tumour, and in 12 it showed only a benign lesion. among 24 patients considered to have benign disease biopsy showed an unsuspected neoplasm in seven. use of biopsy thus had a major effect on clinical management in 55 patients. four false negative but no false positive diagnoses resulted from the procedure. conclusion--percutaneous biopsy of abdominal and retroperitoneal masses under ultrasound guidance is a safe and accurate method of obtaining a histological diagnosis. the results obtained have a considerable effect on clinical management.
reduction in incidence of inducible ventricular tachycardia after myocardial infarction by treatment with streptokinase during infarct evolution. the aim of this study was to determine whether intravenous streptokinase administered with or without oral aspirin to patients with evolving myocardial infarction reduces the inducibility of ventricular tachycardia at electrophysiologic study and thus the risk of sudden death in infarct survivors. of 159 patients randomized at westmead hospital to the multicenter second international study of infarct survival (isis-2) after streptokinase and aspirin in acute myocardial infarction, 87 underwent electrophysiologic testing 6 to 28 days after infarction to determine their risk of subsequent ventricular arrhythmias (streptokinase 20 patients; aspirin 25 patients; streptokinase and aspirin 21 patients; both placebos 21 patients). patients who underwent electrophysiologic testing had similar clinical characteristics to those of patients who did not. the stimulation protocol comprised up to and including four extrastimuli applied to the right ventricular apex at twice diastolic threshold. an abnormal result was defined as ventricular tachycardia with a cycle length greater than or equal to 230 ms lasting greater than or equal to 10 s. ventricular tachycardia was inducible at electrophysiologic study in 8 patients who received placebo streptokinase, but in no patient who received active streptokinase (8 of 46 versus 0 of 41; p = 0.005, fischer's exact test). ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 4 patients who received aspirin therapy and 4 who did not (4 of 41 versus 4 of 46; p = ns). during a mean follow-up period of 39 +/- 9 months, there were no spontaneous episodes of ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation or witnessed sudden death in the streptokinase-treated group compared with three such events in the placebo-treated group (p = 0.13). when compared with placebo therapy, intravenous streptokinase substantially reduced the incidence of inducible ventricular tachycardia in infarct survivors. no similar benefit was attributable to aspirin therapy.
cellular immune response to hepatitis b virus-encoded antigens in acute and chronic hepatitis b virus infection. the proliferative response of pbmc to hepatitis b virus (hbv) envelope, core, and e ag was analyzed prospectively in 21 patients with acute self-limited hbv infection and compared with the response of patients with chronic hbv infection and different levels of hbv replication (i.e., hepatitis e ag (hbeag)- or anti-hbe-positive) and liver damage (i.e., chronic active hepatitis or chronic asymptomatic carriers). our results indicate that: 1) hbv-infected subjects who develop a self-limited acute hepatitis show a vigorous pbmc response to hepatitis b core ag and hbeag, as expression of t cell activation; 2) appearance of a detectable lymphocyte response to hbv nucleocapsid ag is temporally associated with the clearance of hbv envelope ag; 3) in patients with chronic hbv infection the level of t cell responsiveness to hepatitis b core ag and to hbeag is significantly lower than that observed during acute infection; 4) t cell sensitization to hbv envelope ag in acute and chronic hbv infection is usually undetectable and when measurable is expressed transiently and at low levels. these results may reflect immune events of pathogenetic relevance with respect to evolution of disease and viral clearance.
rcbf-spect in brain infarction: when does it predict outcome? we prospectively studied 26 patients with ischemic stroke within 24 hr, after 2 wk, and after 6 mo with thallium-201-diethyldithiocarbamate single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) and neurologic and functional assessments. the admission flow deficits correlated with outcome. the admission and 6-mo scores correlated with clinical conditions at each time. at 2 wk, the flow deficits were smaller and did not correlate with clinical parameters. nor did the presence or absence of hyperfixation of the radiopharmaceutical. six months after the infarct, the flow defect had decreased in 9 of 15 patients in whom three serial scans were available, with better clinical improvement than in the remaining six whose flow deficits increased. more patients in the first group had been treated randomly with the calcium-entry blocker flunarizine. spect imaging of rcbf within 24 hr after stroke correlates with clinical outcome and condition, whereas rcbf imaging at 2 wk after the stroke shows no clinical correlation.
a community-based study of acute respiratory tract infection in thai children. a 2-year longitudinal study was conducted among the population of a socioeconomically depressed urban community in bangkok, thailand, from january 1986 through december 1987 to determine the incidence, etiologic agents, and risk factors associated with acute respiratory tract infection (ari) in children less than 5 years of age. data were obtained for a total of 674 children, who were visited twice weekly for detection of signs and symptoms of ari. during the first year of the study, throat-swab specimens were obtained for bacterial culture from both ill and healthy children and a nasal wash was performed on mildly ill children for detection of virus. during both years of the study, nasopharyngeal aspiration for identification of virus was performed for children with more severe infection. the overall incidence of ari was 11.2 episodes per child-year. the highest (14.9) and lowest (8.8) rates per child-year occurred in age groups 6-11 months and 48-59 months, respectively. respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, adenovirus, streptococcus pneumoniae, and haemophilus influenzae were the prevalent pathogenic agents identified. factors associated with higher risk of ari were low family income, working mothers, mothers with allergies, chronic malnutrition, and crowding in the home.
spitz nevi in black children. four black children with spitz nevi are presented. the initial clinical diagnosis was pyogenic granuloma for three patients. one child had two spitz nevi. histologic examination revealed melanocytic dendritic hyperplasia in all cases.
cancer in the families of children with soft tissue sarcoma. the cancer experience among 754 first-degree relatives (mothers, fathers, and siblings) of a population-based series of 177 children with soft tissue sarcoma is reported. the current study represents an extension of our earlier work in which the authors found an excess of breast cancer in the mothers of 143 of these children. there were 40 cancers among all first-degree relatives, compared with 24.82 expected (relative risk [rr] 1.61, p = 0.006). there was no excess in fathers, but an excess of borderline significance was seen in mothers (rr 1.67, p = 0.0545), and a significant excess in siblings (rr 4.55, p = 0.0002), mainly due to carcinoma of the breast and pediatric tumors. results of a step forward cox multivariate analysis identified three variables in the index child which were independently associated with high cancer risk in relatives, as follows: age younger than 24 months at diagnosis; histologic type, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma or other and unspecified soft tissue sarcoma; and male sex. it was possible, therefore, to identify a subgroup of children whose relatives are at high risk of early onset cancer (rr in this group 10.14). the pattern of cancers is consistent with the li-fraumeni syndrome. the authors conclude that a marked proportion of childhood soft tissue sarcoma has a genetic basis.
lateral temporal bone resections. eighteen consecutive patients underwent a lateral temporal bone resection for the treatment of tumors originating in the auricle, the external auditory canal, the periauricular skin, or the parotid and were retrospectively analyzed. the different lateral temporal bone resections performed have been categorized into four types. the type i resection consists of the removal of the tympanic bone and the external auditory canal lateral to the tympanic membrane. the type ii resection consists of the removal of the entire tympanic bone, the tympanic membrane, the incus, and the malleus, preserving the facial nerve and the inner ear. type iii resections remove, in addition to the those structures removed in type ii resections, the distal facial nerve and fallopian canal, the mastoid tip, the styloid process, and the stylomastoid foramen. the type iv resection consists of the removal of only the mastoid tip and the inferior portion of the tympanic bone. when the techniques of lateral temporal bone resection are used appropriately, adequate surgical treatment of patients with selected advanced and recurrent malignant tumors of the external ear, the periauricular skin, and the parotid is possible with low morbidity and a high probability of local regional control.
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. iii. models of ischemic and hypoxic/ischemic injury in the immature puppy heart. this study compares the metabolic and functional effects of three different models of ischemia in the immature heart. the intent was (1) to develop a model of energy-depleted and functionally depressed heart to be used in subsequent studies of myocardial protection and (2) to characterize the biochemical changes following different interventions. forty-five minutes of normothermic global ischemia produced severe depletion of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate (greater than 70%) but was associated with 85% +/- 10% recovery of left ventricular function. postischemic functional depression (less than 30% recovery) could be produced by either (1) extending the ischemic duration to 60 minutes or (2) preceding 45 minutes of ischemia by 60 minutes of hypoxic stress (oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm hg). neither of these more severe interventions caused more profound depletion of adenosine triphosphate or creatine phosphate, but hypoxic stress produced marked tissue depletion of glutamate (52%) and aspartate (48%) before aortic clamping. longer ischemia or preceding hypoxia led to greater myocardial accumulation of lactate (greater than 250 versus 104 mumol/gm dry weight) and succinate (18 versus 11 mumol/gm dry weight) during aortic clamping, p less than 0.05 versus 45 minutes of ischemia) and greater postischemic depression and amino acid (greater than 65% aspartate depletion) and carbohydrate (greater than 50% glycogen depletion) metabolism, p less than 0.05 versus simple ischemia. these findings suggest that more severe ischemic/hypoxic models are needed in immature hearts to produce functional depression, and the biochemical analyses suggest the characteristics of metabolic defects that must be corrected to resuscitate these hearts during surgical correction of congenital defects.
hemodynamic and electrophysiologic evaluation of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy surviving cardiac arrest. hemodynamic and electrophysiologic studies were performed in 30 survivors of sudden cardiac arrest with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc) to determine responsible factors. electrophysiologic abnormalities alone were present in 27 patients (90%): sinus node dysfunction in 14 (47%), delayed atrio-ventricular nodal conduction in 1 (3%), abnormal his-purkinje conduction in 7 (23%), an inducible atrial tachycardia in 7 (23%), and inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia in 21 (70%). sustained ventricular arrhythmia was polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt) in 18 patients (86%), monomorphic vt in 2 patients (7%) and ventricular fibrillation in 1 patient (3%). in 1 patient the arrhythmia recorded during an episode of cardiac arrest and induced at electrophysiologic study was polymorphic vt. vt was induced with less than or equal to 2 extra-stimuli in only 1 patient (3%) but with less than or equal to 3 extra-stimuli in 20 patients (97%). potential causes of sudden cardiac arrest were found in all patients and were multiple in 13 patients (43%). these were (1) ventricular electrical instability in 21 patients (70%), (2) severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in 8 patients (27%), (3) bradycardia in 5 patients (17%), (4) myocardial ischemia associated with hypotension in 5 patients (17%), and (5) atrial tachycardia resulting in hypotension in 4 patients (13%). of the 21 patients with inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia, 17 received an implantable defibrillator device and 4 were treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. seven patients underwent left ventricular septal myectomy.
itraconazole in the management of chronic dermatophytosis. fifty-five patients with griseofulvin-unresponsive dermatophytosis caused by trichophyton rubrum were treated with itraconazole. they had either tinea corporis or "dry type" infections of the palms, soles, or nails. the following sites were affected: trunk (12 infections), soles (47), toe webs (52), palms (26), fingernails (29), and toenails (42). patients were treated with oral itraconazole until clinical and mycologic remission were achieved. response rates and mean times to recovery were as follows: trunk, 100%, 1.5 months; soles, 83%, 6.7 months; toe webs, 90%, 7.2 months; palms, 96%, 4.6 months; fingernails, 90%, 5.4 months; and toenails, 76%, 10.3 months). in a 6-month follow-up period 7 of 30 patients with toenail infections who had responded to treatment had a clinical and mycologic relapse, usually of one nail. side effects were minimal but included abdominal discomfort (three patients), headache (one), and weight gain (two). no persistent abnormalities in blood biochemistry were seen, even in patients who received itraconazole for more than 9 months.
quantitative relationships between left ventricular ejection and wall thickening and geometry. the quantitative relationships that exist between left ventricular (lv) wall shortening, wall thickening, and geometry during lv ejection are not well defined. we used a mathematical model to measure these parameters in 40 patients with various lv geometries studied by echocardiography. as opposed to wall shortening, the percent contribution of wall thickening to lv ejection (% delta vh) was 25 +/- 2% in normal subjects; in all the patients, it varied from 18 to 45% and was inversely correlated (r = 0.94) to the midwall radius-to-wall thickness ratio (r/h) of the ventricle at end diastole. on the other hand, the ratio of the quantity of blood ejected per unit of lv wall volume magnitude of delta v/v omega magnitude of varied from 0.20 to 1.20 (normal subjects 0.83 +/- 0.11) and was directly correlated (r = 0.94) to r/h; using independent data in the literature, we also found a similar relationship (r = 0.80) between the ratio of quantity of blood ejected per unit of lv mass (magnitude of delta v/m omega magnitude of) and r/h. patients with presumably abnormal myocardial function did not satisfy the relationship between magnitude of delta v/v omega magnitude of or magnitude of delta v/m omega magnitude of and r/h.
botulinum toxin treatment of cranial-cervical dystonia, spasmodic dysphonia, other focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm. in the past five years, 477 patients with various focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm received 3,806 injections of botulinum a toxin for relief of involuntary spasms. a definite improvement with a global rating greater than or equal to 2 on a 0-4 scale, was obtained in all 13 patients with spasmodic dysphonia, 94% of 70 patients with blepharospasm, 92% of 13 patients with hemifacial spasm, 90% of 195 patients with cervical dystonia, 77% of 22 patients with hand dystonia, 73% of 45 patients with oromandibular dystonia, and in 90% of 21 patients with other focal dystonia who had adequate follow up. while the average duration of maximum improvement lasted about 11 weeks after an injection (range seven weeks in patients with hand dystonia to 15 weeks in patients with hemifacial spasm), some patients benefited for over a year. only 16% of the 941 treatment visits with follow up were not successful. except for transient focal weakness, there were very few complications or systemic effects attributed to the injections. this study supports the conclusion that botulinum toxin injections are a safe and effective therapy for patients with focal dystonia and hemifacial spasm.
a retrospective analysis of therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease: initial treatment. we have reviewed results of therapy in 740 patients with grades ii-iv acute graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) after allogeneic marrow transplantation. at the beginning of therapy, 597 patients (81%) had rash, 369 (50%) had liver dysfunction and 396 (54%) had gut dysfunction. initial treatment was with glucocorticoids (n = 531), cyclosporine (n = 170), antithymocyte globulin (atg) (n = 156) or monoclonal antibody (n = 3) either singly (n = 633) or in combination (n = 107). parameters of gvhd severity in each organ were recorded weekly, and evaluation of response was made using values at the initiation of secondary treatment or, for patients without such treatment, using values on day 29 of primary treatment or the last recorded value before death, whichever occurred first. minimal criteria for improvement or progression were defined for each organ, but no attempt was made to define liver or gut outcome if another complication such as venocclusive disease or infectious enteritis was present. improvement rates were 43% for skin disease, 35% for evaluable liver disease and 50% for evaluable gut disease. overall complete or partial responses were seen in 44% of patients. multivariate analyses were carried out to identify patient, disease or treatment factors associated with likelihood of overall improvement and likelihood of response in at least one organ. a similar analysis was also carried out to identify covariates associated with time to treatment failure (defined as initiation of secondary therapy or death not due to relapse of malignancy). in all three models, gvhd prophylaxis using cyclosporine combined with methotrexate was associated with favorable gvhd treatment outcome compared to prophylaxis with either agent alone, and treatment with glucocorticoids or cyclosporine was more successful than treatment with atg. other factors associated with unfavorable outcome in the model of time to treatment failure and also entered in one of the response models were recipient hla disparity with the donor, presence of a liver complication other than gvhd, and early onset of gvhd. results of this analysis indicate that glucocorticoids represent the best initial therapy available for treatment of acute gvhd, although much room for improvement remains.
parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation for peptic duodenal stricture. gastric outlet obstruction due to peptic duodenal stricture (pyloric stenosis) was treated with parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation of the stricture in 32 patients. follow-up is in the range of 5 years in 37.4% of the patients, while 6 to 10 years follow-up is available in 62.4% of the patients. at their last follow-up, 74.9% of the patients were in either visick 1 or 2 clinical status. recurrence rates have been 3.1% at 1 year, 9.3% at 5 years, and 21.8% after 6 to 10 years follow-up. there has been only one instance (3.1%) of restenosis. two patients required reoperation because of recurrence and one of them died.
greenfield filter as primary therapy for deep venous thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in patients with cancer. in 1985, as a result of the high complication rate associated with anticoagulants in patients who have cancer and deep venous thrombosis (dvt) and/or pulmonary embolism (pe), we established a policy of placing greenfield filters (gfs) as primary therapy instead of anticoagulation. since 1985 we have been asked to consult in the treatment of 18 patients with cancer and with dvt and/or pe, and we have placed a gf in each of these patients. this represented 34% (18/53) of the filters placed during that same period. over the same 4-year period, 11 patients with cancer and dvt and/or pe underwent anticoagulation therapy. the purpose of this study was to compare the results of anticoagulation versus gf insertion in these two groups of patients. a significantly higher number of major complications (n = 4) occurred in the anticoagulation group (p less than 0.05, fisher's exact test) than in the gf group (n = 0). the four complications that occurred in the anticoagulation group included three bleeding episodes (tumor bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, and hip hematoma) and one pe, despite adequate anticoagulation. two patients died as a direct result of these complications (pe and gastrointestinal bleeding). the three patients with bleeding complications each required a transfusion of more than 3 units of blood. all four of the patients with complications had metastatic disease (pancreatic carcinoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, prostate carcinoma, and uterine carcinoma). although this is a small, nonrandomized, nonprospective study, the data seem to indicate that gf placement is safer than anticoagulation for dvt or pe in patients with cancer and particularly in patients with metastatic disease. we conclude that gf insertions may be a better primary treatment than anticoagulation.
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease--more than a renal disease. autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd) is the most common genetic disease, affecting a half million americans. the clinical phenotype can result from at least two different gene defects. one gene that can cause adpkd has been located on the short arm of chromosome 16. this discovery has made possible new methods for diagnosing the disorder in gene carriers prior to the development of renal cysts. although renal cysts are clearly an important manifestation of the gene defect, other systemic manifestations are both common and clinically important. cardiac valvular lesions, intracranial aneurysms, hepatic cysts, and diverticula are included in the array of systemic manifestations. moreover, renal cysts are only one of a myriad of renal manifestations. although adpkd was long considered an adult cystic disease, it is also a common cause of childhood cystic disease and must be considered in the differential diagnosis in that setting.
high or low hepaticojejunostomy for bile duct strictures? the 19 patients who underwent 22 postoperative repairs of bile duct stricture in our institution between 1973 and 1984 were evaluated to assess whether the recognition of the tenuous blood supply of the supraduodenal bile duct in 1979 had improved the results thereafter. thirteen of these 22 operations followed a previous biliary tract repair; in 10 of the operations a low anastomosis had been performed without taking blood supply into account. follow-up was complete and ranged from 5 to 15 years. there were no operative deaths and minimal morbidity. there were three deaths at a later time. five of the 11 patients treated by surgery to 1979 had a clinically unsatisfactory result: recurrent strictures developed in all five patients. all but one of the eight patients receiving a high hepaticojejunostomy from 1980 had a clinically satisfactory result with no recurrent strictures. the one exception was the patient who had a second repair with separate high right and left hepatic duct anastomoses and who has ongoing symptoms from preexisting secondary sclerosing cholangitis. the results in the five high repairs performed for low strictures were particularly striking: all five were asymptomatic. this study lends support to the hypothesis of an ischemic basis for biliary strictures and to the recommendation that strictures be repaired with a high hepaticojejunostomy.
sodium-potassium interaction in hypertension and hypertensive cardiovascular disease. epidemiological evidence suggests that low potassium intake is associated with the probability of occurrence of hypertension and stroke. the short-term response to increased potassium intake is increased sodium excretion as well as increased potassium excretion; the short-term response to increased sodium intake is increased potassium excretion as well as increased sodium excretion. in some experimental studies, increased amounts of potassium have been able to block the noxious influences of sodium. sodium and potassium must be concomitantly considered in the investigation of the association of either of these cations with hypertension and cardiovascular disease. the chloride ion is also important for sodium's effects; its importance in potassium's effects has not been extensively explored.
training increases muscle blood flow in rats with peripheral arterial insufficiency. this study investigated the effect of physical training on muscle blood flow (bf) in rats with peripheral arterial insufficiency during treadmill running. bilateral stenosis of the femoral artery of adult rats (300-350 g) was performed to reduce exercise hyperemia in the hindlimb but not limit resting muscle bf. rats were divided into normal sedentary, acute stenosed (stenosed 3 days before the experiment), stenosed sedentary (limited to cage activity), and stenosed trained (run on a treadmill by a progressively intense program, up to 50-60 min/day, 5 days/wk for 6-8 wk). hindlimb bf was determined with 85sr- and 141ce-labeled microspheres at a low (20 m/min) and high treadmill speed (30-40 m/min depending on ability). maximal hindlimb bf was reduced to approximately 50% normal in the acute stenosed group. total hindlimb bf (81 +/- 5 ml.min-1.100 g-1) did not change in stenosed sedentary animals with 6-8 wk of cage activity, but a redistribution of bf occurred within the hindlimb. two factors contributed to a higher bf to the distal limb muscle of the trained animals. a redistribution bf within the hindlimb occurred in stenosed trained animals; distal limb bf increased to approximately 80% (p less than 0.001) of the proximal tissue. in addition, an increase in total hindlimb bf with training indicates that collateral bf has been enhanced (p less than 0.025). the associated increase in oxygen delivery to the relatively ischemic muscle probably contributed to the markedly improved exercise tolerance evident in the trained animals.
hazards of internal fixation in the treatment of slipped capital femoral epiphysis. we reviewed the records of 202 patients (308 hips) in whom a slipped capital femoral epiphysis had been fixed with pins or screws. a serious complication that was directly related to the use of internal fixation developed in eighty hips (26 per cent). the rate of complications in the 202 patients was 40 per cent. in thirty-six (18 per cent) of the 202 patients, an additional procedure was done to correct a pin-related complication. forty-one hip joints had been penetrated by a pin. other complications included avascular necrosis (fourteen hips), chondrolysis (nine), fracture (one), infection (one), further slippage (one), sciatic-nerve injury (one), and breakage of a screw (eight). ways of decreasing the incidence of complications of fixation were explored.
hormonal and enzymatic parameters of hepatic regeneration in patients undergoing major liver resections. thirteen patients who underwent 40% to 80% removal of their livers had blood samples drawn initially and daily on postoperative days 1 to 7. the enzyme marker of heightened polyamine metabolism, ornithine decarboxylase, and the indicator of dna synthesis, thymidine kinase, were measured. in addition, the hormones (insulin, glucagon, estradiol and androgen), which in animals are known to reflect and possibly modulate regeneration, were measured. changes in all these indices followed the same pattern as in rats, dogs and swine but at a slower rate. ornithine decarboxylase and estradiol increased within 24 hr, but thymidine kinase and insulin rises did not become statistically significant until 3 to 5 days. using these plasma or serum indices as surrogate measures of biochemical events in the liver itself, regeneration reached a maximum after 4 or 5 days. by computed tomography scan analysis, restoration of hepatic cell mass was not complete until 3 wk.
cigarette smoking, adiposity, non-insulin-dependent diabetes, and coronary heart disease in japanese-american men. purpose: coronary heart disease has been described to be increased with both glucose intolerance and cigarette smoking. all three of these have also been reported to be associated with central adiposity (disproportionate deposition of fat on the trunk compared to the extremities). the purpose of this analysis was to determine the relationship of cigarette smoking to glucose intolerance and coronary heart disease, the relationship of cigarette smoking to risk factors such as adiposity, body fat distribution, and plasma lipoprotein and insulin levels, the relationship of cigarette smoking to these risk factors independent of disease status, and whether these risk factors could account for any of the relationship between cigarette smoking and disease status. patients and methods: the study design was cross-sectional. the study sample contained 219 middle-aged and elderly japanese-american men: 77 with normal and 74 with impaired glucose tolerance and 68 with type ii diabetes. there were 54 men with coronary heart disease. a detailed smoking history was obtained. glucose tolerance status was established by medical history and a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test. coronary heart disease was determined by medical history and a resting electrocardiogram. adiposity and fat distribution measurements were body mass index (kg/m2), skinfold thicknesses, body circumferences, and cross-sectional fat areas by computed tomography. levels of insulin, c-peptide, cholesterol (total, low-density lipoprotein [ldl], high-density lipoprotein [hdl], hdl2, hdl3, very-low-density lipoprotein [vldl]), and triglyceride (total, vldl) were measured in fasting blood specimens. results: a central pattern of body fat was associated with both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and coronary heart disease. smoking history was related to both adiposity and body fat distribution, and was strongly related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes. past smokers who had smoked up to a month ago were the heaviest while present smokers who were currently smoking or had smoked within the past month were the leanest. however, although present smokers had reduced amounts of fat, this was attributable to those present smokers without heart disease. present smokers with heart disease were not as lean and had increased amounts of intra-abdominal fat. past smokers had the greatest amount of central fat and this was attributable to those with heart disease. by two-way (smoking history and coronary heart disease status) analysis of covariance, smoking history was significantly related only to subcutaneous fat disposition on the chest and abdomen independent of coronary heart disease, while coronary heart disease status was strongly related to plasma levels of insulin c-peptide, vldl, hdl, hdl2, and hdl3 cholesterol, and total and vldl triglyceride, independent of smoking history. further analysis showed that none of the body fat variables could account for the risk of coronary heart disease associated with smoking history. higher fasting plasma c-peptide levels in past smokers accounted statistically for part of the risk of coronary heart disease associated with cigarette smoking. however, this effect was not mediated by any of the body fat measurements. conclusions: disproportionately increased intra-abdominal fat is related to coronary heart disease but not to smoking history. smoking history is related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes. weight gain is associated with smoking cessation and appears to be concentrated in the central subcutaneous regions, especially for those who have coronary heart disease. weight gain associated with cessation of smoking appears to be unrelated to atherogenic changes in lipids, lipoproteins, or insulin. other pathogenic processes must be considered in the association between smoking and coronary heart disease.
reperfusion and readmission of oxygen. pathophysiological relevance of oxygen-derived free radicals to arrhythmogenesis. we have examined the pathophysiological role of readmission of oxygen (and hence production of oxygen-derived free radicals) in the initiation of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias by separating, on a temporal basis, readmission flow from readmission of oxygen. isolated rat hearts (n = 12/group) were subjected to 10 minutes of regional ischemia and 10 minutes of reperfusion. in controls reperfused with oxygenated solution (po2 greater than 600 mm hg), 92% of hearts developed ventricular fibrillation (vf) during the first 20 seconds of reperfusion, whereas in hearts reperfused with hypoxic solution (po2 9.3-12.2 mm hg), the incidence of vf was only 17% (p less than 0.05). subsequent readmission of control solution (po2 greater than 600 mm hg) to the latter group led, within 20 seconds, to the appearance of vf in seven of the 10 hearts (70%) that had not previously fibrillated. to examine whether hypoxic reperfusion had prevented vf or merely delayed its onset, the studies were repeated in separate groups of hearts with the duration of hypoxic reperfusion extended to 5 minutes. in addition, to examine the partial pressure dependence of the relation, the po2 in the reperfusion solution was set at one of five different levels: greater than 600, 150-192.7, 69-85.6, 9.2-14.8, or 0.0 mm hg. it was found that hypoxia merely delayed vf onset by 20-40 seconds and did not significantly reduce the incidence of vf, which was 83%, 92%, 67%, 58%, and 58%, respectively. this indicated that readmission of oxygen is unnecessary for the initiation of vf during reperfusion. the hearts that reverted to sinus rhythm during the ensuing 5 minutes (n = 8, 4, 5, 9, and 8, respectively) were used to assess the arrhythmogenic consequences of readmission of oxygen. when control solution (po2 greater than 600 mm hg) was readmitted, new episodes of vf were elicited within 20 seconds in a manner that was inversely proportional to the preceding po2 (p less than 0.05), the incidence of new episodes of vf being 0%, 0%, 40%, 67%, and 86%, respectively. the arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was not the result of a sudden increase in heart rate, because a similar arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was seen in separate groups of hearts that were paced (350 beats/min) throughout hypoxia and readmission of oxygen. in conclusion, readmission of flow and readmission of oxygen are independent determinants of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
variceal rebleeding after portosystemic shunting. strategies and solutions to a vexing problem. the purpose of this review was to discuss an approach to the treatment of recurrent bleeding from esophageal or gastric varices after portosystemic shunt. from our own clinical experience, as well as that of others, it appears that re-establishment of portal decompression should offer the best chance at long-term survival. luckily, innovations in angiographic technique have allowed attainment of this goal without the inordinate risk of an operative procedure. however, not all patients' situations will be amenable to such treatment. for some of them, operative decompression of the portal venous system can be carried out in an anatomic area previously untouched. for those patients in whom no decompression is possible, direct endoscopic treatment of the varices will offer an alternative, albeit temporizing, approach.
intramyocardial shotgun pellets diagnosed on initial emergency room chest x-ray: case report. the diagnosis of retained intracardiac missile is usually made at thoracotomy or fluoroscopy. close inspection of plain chest x-rays may reveal blurring of radiopaque objects that are moving with the beating heart. in a gunshot wound victim who is initially stable, observation of this phenomenon should prompt a very high index of suspicion for cardiac injury. invasive hemodynamic monitoring is indicated, and thoracotomy should be performed if penetrating cardiac injury is confirmed.
risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine: experience of the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii. risk monitoring for the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii, a multicenter, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors, posed unexpected challenges. concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias, including rearrest, in the lidoflazine group. to ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue, an in-depth review of data was conducted, outside experts were consulted, and additional data were collected. these efforts suggested possible causes for the problem. existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced, resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates. thus, through an efficient monitoring system, an important problem was uncovered and resolved, allowing the trial to be completed without major changes.
effect of preconditioning ischemia on reperfusion arrhythmias after coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion in the rat. severe arrhythmias occur predictably on reperfusion after 5 minutes of coronary occlusion in the rat. there is little data available on whether ischemic preconditioning (pc) of hearts can reduce the incidence of such arrhythmias. the effect of pc (three cycles of 2 minutes of coronary occlusion and 5 minutes of reperfusion) on development of arrhythmias after a subsequent 5-minute coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion was studied. rats (n = 16 each group) underwent 5-minute occlusion and reperfusion alone or preceded by pc; arrhythmias were monitored during ischemia and for 10 minutes of reperfusion, and biopsies were taken for creatine phosphate and adenosine triphosphate in ischemic and nonischemic zones of the left ventricle. pc reduced the incidence of ventricular tachycardia (vt) during occlusion (81% control versus 13% pc, p less than 0.001). on subsequent reperfusion, ventricular fibrillation (vf) developed in zero pc animals versus 13 (81%) of controls (p less than 0.001), and irreversible vf in zero of pc versus seven (44%) of controls (p = 0.007). vt occurred in four (25%) of pc versus all (100%) of controls (p less than 0.001). pc reduced mean duration of vt plus vf from 320 +/- 54 to 5 +/- 1 seconds (p less than 0.001) and delayed arrhythmia onset from 8 +/- 2 to 85 +/- 35 seconds after reperfusion. there was no difference in creatine phosphate levels in the ischemic zone at the end of reperfusion in pc animals compared with controls without irreversible vf (16.2 +/- 4.1 versus 15.5 +/- 3.9 nmol/mg protein, p = ns).
left and right ventricular flows by doppler echocardiography: serial measurements in patients with aortic regurgitation during exercise, cold pressor stimulation, and vasodilation. to test the practicality of doppler echocardiography to measure serial change, biventricular outputs were measured in 15 patients with aortic regurgitation during control periods and during interventions of bicycle exercise, cold pressor stimulation, and vasodilation. biventricular stroke volumes were measured in 10 normal subjects for validation of methods and differed by 2.8%. reading errors were 3.7%. signal quality improved between the first and last observation (p less than 0.05). velocity signals were corrected for intercept angles, which averaged 12 and 19 degrees for right heart flows and 31 and 32 degrees for the left side of the heart in all subjects. negative correlations occurred between intercept angles and the chronologic order in which the patients were studied for left (p = 0.02) and right (p = 0.05) flows. mean flow areas varied 9% in the left ventricle and 20% in the right ventricle. total variability for measuring flow determined from control values was 11% to 13%. when twice the variability was used as the detectable level of change, only exercise provoked real increases in biventricular flows in the majority of patients. we conclude that serial measurements of flow by doppler echocardiographic methods had to exceed 20% to 25% to achieve significant change. measuring intercept angle, resolving flow area, and learning are variables that need greater emphasis.
the significance of gastrinomas found in peripancreatic lymph nodes. a patient with zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) was found to have a solitary, extrapancreatic, extraintestinal gastrinoma in a peripancreatic lymph node. preoperative studies did not show the location of the tumor. after excision of the gastrinoma the patient's fasting serum gastrin level dropped from preoperative levels of 596 pg/ml to 120 pg/ml (normal, less than 200 pg/ml). fasting and stimulated gastrin levels have remained within the normal range at 18 months follow-up. this patient had previously undergone antrectomy, so it could not be determined if this tumor represented a primary lymph node gastrinoma or metastasis from an unrecognized tumor that may have been present in the resected stomach or duodenum. the outcome of this case confirms the previous reports that zes can be controlled after resection of gastrinomas that were contained within abdominal lymph nodes, even if a primary enteropancreatic tumor is not found. our results also support the use of an aggressive operative search aimed at eradication of the tumor in patients with zes even if preoperative localization studies fail to identify the site of the gastrinoma.
antropyloric muscle thickness at us in infants: what is normal? the authors reviewed the ultrasonographic (us) images and medical records of 145 consecutive infants who were seen for evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract because of chronic vomiting and/or regurgitation. at us, the antropyloric muscle of each patient was measured in the midlongitudinal plane. on the basis of this measurement, the patients were divided into the following categories: group 1 (1-2 mm; 99 patients), group 2 (greater than or equal to 3 mm; 40 patients), and group 3 (2- less than 3 mm; six patients). patients in group 1 were considered to have normal antropyloric muscle thickness, those in group 2 had abnormal thickness, and those in group 3 had muscle thickness that was not definitely normal or abnormal. the final clinical diagnoses for all of the infants in the three groups confirmed the authors' initial impressions that antropyloric muscle thickness of less than 2 mm was anatomically normal, muscle measuring 3 mm or greater was abnormal and diagnostic for pyloric stenosis, and muscle from 2 to less than 3 mm was abnormal but not specifically diagnostic for pyloric stenosis. two of the six patients in group 3 eventually were diagnosed as having pyloric stenosis; thus, the authors believe that only those patients with antropyloric muscle less than 2 mm thick should be considered unequivocably normal.
national general practice study of epilepsy: recurrence after a first seizure in the national general practice study of epilepsy 564 patients classified as having definite seizures have been followed up for 2-4 years. 67% (95% confidence interval 63-71%) had a recurrence within 12 months of the first seizure, and 78% (74-81%) had a recurrence within 36 months. seizures associated with a neurological deficit presumed present at birth had a high rate of recurrence (100% by 12 months), whereas seizures that occurred within 3 months of an acute insult to the brain, such as head injury or stroke, or in the context of an acute precipitant such as alcohol, carried a much lower risk of recurrence (40% [29-51%] by 12 months). other factors affecting the risk of recurrence were age-the highest risk being for patients under the age of 16 (83% [77-89%] by 36 months) or over the age of 59 (83% [76-90%] by 36 months-and type of first seizure-the risk of recurrence being much higher for patients with simple partial or complex partial seizures (94% [90-99%] by 36 months) than for those with generalised tonic clonic seizures (72% [67-77%] by 36 months).
gaucher's disease complicated by bleeding esophageal varices and colonic infiltration by gaucher cells. we report a 10-yr-old child with gaucher's disease who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices, as well as hemorrhage from a colonic polyp infiltrated with gaucher cells. both the varices and polyp were treated endoscopically, and the outcome was successful. although gastrointestinal hemorrhage due to portal hypertension is considered a rare complication of gaucher's disease, colonic infiltration with gaucher cells has not been recognized previously.
quality of life in elderly, chronically ill outpatients. quality of life (ql) in elderly outpatients is poorly characterized. we interviewed 258 elderly outpatients from three health care settings to identify the attributes and events that affect self-assessment of ql. these outpatients rated their ql as acceptable, citing medical care, health, interpersonal relationships, financial status, and functional status as affecting their ql. overall ql ratings were not strongly associated with objective indicators such as demographic characteristics and use of health care services. subjective indicators, including patient perceptions of health, memory, and financial concerns, were correlated independently with global ql (sigma r2 = .35). we conclude that older, chronically ill patients generally consider their ql to be acceptable and affected by a variety of factors, including their perceptions of their emotional, socioeconomic, intellectual, and physical functioning. furthermore, ql is poorly associated with objective indicators. thus, in assessing the ql of elderly, chronically ill outpatients, physicians should elicit information regarding these perceptions.
stunned myocardium and myocardial collagen damage: differential effects of single and repeated occlusions. it has been suggested that collagen loss and damage is responsible for the dysfunction seen in stunned myocardium. to test this hypothesis we compared collagen in canine hearts stunned by repeated occlusion with collagen in hearts stunned by a single occlusion. regional contractile function was equally depressed in both groups: segment shortening at 1 hour after reperfusion averaged 37% +/- 9% versus 32% +/- 9% of preocclusion values in repeated and single occlusion models, respectively. midmyocardial collagen content was not different in either single occlusion (10.5% +/- 0.4%) or repeated occlusion models (9.5% +/- 0.7%) when compared with nonischemic hearts (8.5 +/- 0.8%). collagen damage, which was revealed with polarized light microscopy, was seen in 5 of 6 dogs after repeated occlusion but was not apparent after a single occlusion. thus although both models of stunned myocardium produce similar dysfunction, there was no apparent collagen loss. furthermore, collagen damage was only seen after repeated occlusion. therefore it appears unlikely that collagen damage is a primary mechanism of stunned myocardium.
is urethral sparing at cystectomy a safe procedure? urethrectomy is performed with cystectomy when the neoplasm is multifocal, at the bladder neck, or associated with carcinoma in situ (cis). the records of the most recent 20 patients treated by radical cystectomy at our institution were reviewed. in 50 percent of the cases, the extent of disease within the bladder was found to have been underestimated to the point that a urethral sparing operation (i.e., to maintain urinary continence with an intestinal segment and an intact urethra) might have been dangerous.
strategies underlying the control of disordered movement. the purpose of this article is fourfold. first, a theory of motor control--the dual-strategy hypothesis--is outlined. second, the methodologies and theoretical framework that are used to develop this theory are examined. third, motor dysfunction is discussed in the context of this theory. in particular, down syndrome, parkinson's disease, cardiovascular accidents, and spasticity are discussed. finally, potential applications of the theory to physical therapy are considered.
the electrocardiogram in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. the electrocardiogram is often abnormal in patients who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. the most frequent abnormalities are a rightward p-wave axis (greater than or equal to 70 degrees) and a rightward qrs axis (greater than or equal to 90 degrees). in addition, low voltage in the limb leads, an s1s2s3 pattern, poor r-wave progression, a posterior-superior terminal qrs vector or other changes may be present. transient atrial and ventricular dysrhythmias are common. knowledge of the usual electrocardiographic manifestations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease enables the clinician to recognize uncharacteristic abnormalities, which often represent the effects of superimposed illnesses or drug toxicity.
granulomatous vasculitis in crohn's disease [published erratum appears in gastroenterology 1991 aug;101(2):595] this study investigated a possible vascular origin for granulomas in crohn's disease. twenty-four consecutive resected specimens of small and large intestinal crohn's disease were preserved by arterial perfusion-fixation with 10% formol saline, at mean arterial pressure (100 mm hg). fifteen specimens contained granulomas on routine examination of h&e-stained sections. these 15 specimens were examined in detail using a range of immunohistochemical staining techniques to identify vascular structures and granulomas. a total of 485 granulomas were found, 85% of which were identified as being directly involved in vascular injury. the majority (77%) of granulomas were deep to the mucosa; they were found most frequently in the submucosa (42%). the techniques used in this study enhanced the recognition of granulomatous vasculitis. the results suggest that the majority of granulomas in crohn's disease form within walls of blood vessels. vascular localization of granulomatous inflammation suggests that the intestinal microvasculature contains an early element in the pathogenesis of crohn's disease.
the contribution of median nerve seps in the functional assessment of the cervical spinal cord in syringomyelia. a study of 24 patients. since the early study of halliday and wakefield (1963) it has generally been agreed that scalp somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) are normal in patients with dissociated loss of pain and temperature sensation. up to now a few patients with abnormal spinal n13 and preserved scalp p14 and n20 have been reported in the literature, but there is no firm evidence, based on group data, that this dissociation can be related to any form of dissociated sensory loss. we studied median nerve seps in 24 patients with syringomyelia documented by ct scan or mri. for the recording of the cervical n13 we used a cv6 anterior cervical montage, which cancels the potentials generated above the foramen magnum and enhances the amplitude of n13. scalp far-field and early cortical seps were recorded using a noncephalic reference electrode. since n13 pathological changes are mainly changes in amplitude we measured the n13/p9 amplitude ratio in normal subjects and patients and found that it was a reliable index to quantify the amplitude decrease of n13. absent or reduced n13 was observed in 40 median nerve seps (83%) in conjunction with normal p14 and n20 in 30 seps. thus the dissociated loss of the cervical n13 was identified as the most conspicuous sep feature in syringomyelia. a significant correlation was found between abnormal n13 and loss of pain and temperature sensations, whereas p14 abnormalities correlated well only with loss of joint and touch sensations. in the median nerve territory, sensation was either normal (6 cases) or lost only for pain and temperature (24 cases) when seps showed abnormal n13 and normal p14. although it does not directly reflect the postsynaptic activity of spinal cells receiving their inputs from a delta and c fibres the n13 potential proved to be a reliable index of spinal cord grey matter dysfunction in syringomyelia.
persistent mullerian duct syndrome. persistent mullerian syndrome is rare. a case of phenotypically normal male with persistent mullerian structures that consisted of a bicornuate uterus, fallopian tubes, and upper third of the vagina is reported. these unusual structures were found in association with bilateral cryptorchidism and a right inguinal hernia, and were diagnosed while repairing the hernia in the neonatal period. the uterus and fallopian tubes were removed via laparotomy when the child was eighteen months old; at the same time a bilateral orchiopexy was performed. to avoid damage to the vas deferens, which lay in closely to the mullerian structures and could not be separated from the vaginal wall, a small segment of the upper third of the vagina was retained. the testicles, although normal on pathologic examination, have shown poor response to hormonal stimulation with human chorionic gonadotropin. long-term follow-up for these patients is necessary because they have an increased risk of testicular tumors developing.
myasthenia gravis. myasthenia gravis is a disorder of neuromuscular function resulting from an immunologically based premature destruction of acetylcholine receptors. the disease is characterized clinically by variable weakness accentuated by repetitive muscular activity and usually responding to the administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. myasthenia gravis is a complex disease and requires understanding of the many facets of its natural history and immunological basis to ensure optimal individual patient management. the long-term goal is control of the immunological imbalance; treatment regimens include thymectomy, corticosteroids, azathioprine, and plasmapheresis. the common use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors provides symptomatic relief during variable daily muscular activity. disability due to myasthenia gravis is to a large extent reversible and death is preventable. early recognition of myasthenia gravis and appropriate treatment are often rewarded by remission that may be permanent.
muscle fibre type and habitual snoring. although anatomical abnormalities of the upper airway have been recorded in some patients with obstructive sleep apnoea (osa), a muscle tone dysregulation also seems to have an important role in this disorder. since habitual snoring is the initial stage of osa, the structural characteristics of upper airway muscles (medium pharyngeal constrictor muscle [mpcm]) from 13 men (9 non-snorers and 4 habitual snorers) were studied. mpcm fibre structure in non-snorers was broadly similar to that in normal limb muscles, with the exception that fibre diameters were smaller for all fibre types. compared with limb muscles, mpcm had a smaller proportion of type iib fibres and a higher proportion of types i and iia fibres. mpcm in habitual snorers had an abnormal distribution of fibre types (low percentage of type i and type iib fibres and high percentage of type iia fibres) compared with non-snorers (p less than 0.001) and the type iia fibres were hypertrophic. no myopathic or neurogenic changes were seen. two possible hypotheses explain the abnormal distribution of fibre types in snorers. first, a constitutionally determined reduction of slow alpha-motor neurons induces an adaptive transformation of type iib to type iia fibres and a hypertrophy of type iia fibres; or, second, motor neurons change their patterns of discharge and, hence, of activation, and modify fibre-type distribution of mpcm as an adaptation to the anatomical characteristic of upper airway and habitual snoring.
improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction. in previous studies, we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ([99mtc]ida) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis, except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree. in this study, we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction (hef) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [99mtc]ida. our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone, but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease (ihd). the purpose of this study was to compare the hef in patients with profound cholestasis (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl) due to either ihd or common bile duct obstruction (cbdo). normal subjects (n = 13) had an hef of 100%. patients with cbdo (n = 13) had slightly reduced hef values (92.8 +/- 3.2%) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia (6.1 +/- 1.0 mg/dl). patients with ihd (n = 23) had a markedly reduced hef (43.1 +/- 4.1%) which was significantly lower than patients with cbdo and normal subjects (p less than 0.001). we conclude that the determination of the hef during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl).
1990 volvo award in clinical sciences. lumbar spinal pathology in cadaveric material in relation to history of back pain, occupation, and physical loading. the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration, anular ruptures, end-plate defects, vertebral body osteophytosis, and facet joint osteoarthrosis was examined radiographically and osteologically in 86 male cadavers for whom occupational, physical loading, and back pain histories were obtained from the men's families. history of back pain and the parameters of spinal pathology were related to the highest and lowest degrees of physical loading. in multivariate analyses, history of back injury was related to the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration, anular ruptures, and vertebral osteophytosis. symmetric disc degeneration was associated with sedentary work, and vertebral osteophytosis was related to heavy work. history of back pain was related to occupational physical loading after control for the effects of the other covariates. the results indicate that the least pathology stemmed from moderate or mixed physical loading, but the least back pain was associated with sedentary work.
a forme fruste of marfan's syndrome: case history. a thirty nine year old woman presented with multiple aneurysms and dissections of the arterial system secondary to cystic medial necrosis is presented. after assessment of the family history a diagnosis of a forme fruste of marfan's syndrome was made. preoperative consideration of this rare diagnosis is important for treatment and surgical management.
comparison of intravenous amrinone and dobutamine in congestive heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. a prospective randomized study was performed in 46 consecutive patients with refractory congestive heart failure (chf) due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to compare the hemodynamic responses to 48-hour infusions of amrinone and dobutamine. both drugs substantially reduced pulmonary arterial wedge pressure, right atrial pressure and systemic vascular resistance and increased cardiac index. amrinone caused a greater decrease in right atrial pressure than dobutamine (p less than 0.02) and had a positive chronotropic effect not observed with dobutamine (p less than 0.01). the increase in heart rate produced by amrinone correlated inversely with the changes in right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures, suggesting a baroreceptor response to reduced preload. dobutamine produced a larger increase in stroke volume index than amrinone (p less than 0.01). ninety-one percent of patients receiving amrinone and only 65% receiving dobutamine had reduction of greater than or equal to 30% in pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (p less than 0.05). cardiac index increased greater than or equal to 30% in similar numbers of patients given amrinone (74%) and dobutamine (65%). negative fluid balance was recorded in all patients receiving amrinone and in 78% of patients receiving dobutamine (p less than 0.05). target hemodynamic criteria were achieved in 83% of patients receiving 10 micrograms/kg/min of amrinone. the effective maintenance dose of dobutamine was extremely variable. no clinically important adverse effects were observed with either drug regimen. both amrinone and dobutamine are effective and safe agents for short-term parenteral therapy of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy in severe chf that is unresponsive to oral medication.
protecting the vasculature: an eye toward the future. although calcium antagonists were originally developed for use in the management of patients with angina pectoris, they are now used in the management of other cardiovascular disorders, including hypertension. more recently, the calcium antagonists have been under investigation for their potential protective role in atherosclerosis. coupled with these new possibilities for therapeutic use are the development of new, long-acting, tissue-specific calcium antagonists. amlodipine belongs to this group, and although it is a dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist, its pharmacologic profile differs from that of other dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonists. differences include: different ph optimum for receptor binding, different rates of association and dissociation, and differences in allosteric interaction with the diltiazem and verapamil binding sites. amlodipine, when given orally to rabbits receiving a high-cholesterol diet, reduces atheroma formation. evidence of its ability to protect the vasculature is provided by its ability to significantly increase (p less than 0.001) survival in stroke-prone hypertensive rats.
hypertension and acculturation in elderly mexican americans: results from 1982-84 hispanic hanes. the purpose of our study was to describe the relationship between acculturation and hypertension in elderly mexican americans. two age groups, 55-64 and 65-74, were examined from data provided in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey (hhanes). the prevalence of hypertension among subgroups of different acculturation was ascertained based on the modified cuellar acculturation scale. each age group was also stratified using the hhanes poverty index, with those above the index compared to those below. a stepwise logistic regression was performed among the variables of poverty, gender, age, and acculturation in relation to hypertension. the results indicate that acculturation and age are stronger predictors of hypertension than poverty in elderly mexican americans, with acculturation being a stronger predictor among those age 55-64. factors related to acculturation may have a stronger influence on the prevalence of hypertension in older mexican americans than differences related to socioeconomic status.
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer. thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation. in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures, the success rate of intubation was 91%, and 82% were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored. the mean survival rate was 4.4 months. in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas, 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months. this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis. the overall morbidity rate was 28.1% (18.8% perforation, 6.3% hemorrhage, and 3.1% tracheal obstruction). the overall mortality rate was 18.8%. although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors, endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6% of patients with relief of symptoms, nutritional improvement, and a mean survival time of 4.5 months.
reactivity of eccentric and concentric coronary stenoses in patients with chronic stable angina. dynamic coronary stenoses may be the cause of a variable angina threshold and rest angina in patients with chronic stable angina. it has been suggested that eccentric but not concentric coronary artery stenoses have the potential for dynamic changes of caliber in response to vasoactive stimuli. the vasomotor response of eccentric (asymmetric narrowing) and concentric (symmetric narrowing) coronary stenoses to ergonovine (20 micrograms intracoronary or 300 micrograms intravenous) and isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg intracoronary) was studied in 51 patients with chronic stable angina. diameter of reference segments (angiographically normal segments proximal to the stenoses) and that of eccentric (n = 30) and concentric (n = 35) coronary stenoses that ranged from 50% to 90% luminal diameter reduction were measured by computerized quantitative angiography before and after ergonovine and isosorbide dinitrate. ergonovine reduced stenosis diameter (by greater than or equal to 10%) in 80% of eccentric stenoses and 42% of concentric stenoses (p less than 0.05). mean (+/- sem) diameter reduction with ergonovine was 19 +/- 3% and 9.5 +/- 2% for eccentric and concentric stenoses, respectively (p less than 0.05). isosorbide dinitrate increased coronary diameter (by greater than or equal to 10%) in 70% of eccentric and 43% of concentric stenoses (p less than 0.05). mean diameter of eccentric stenoses increased from 1.15 +/- 0.05 to 1.35 +/- 0.06 mm after nitrate (18.6 +/- 2.5%), whereas diameter of concentric stenoses increased from 1.05 +/- 0.05 to 1.14 +/- 0.05 mm (10 +/- 2.5%) (p less than 0.05). average dilation of reference segments with administration of isosorbide dinitrate and constriction with ergonovine were not significantly different in patients with concentric and eccentric stenoses.
tissue distribution of 2-3 and 2-6 sialyl lewis a antigens and significance of the ratio of two antigens for the differential diagnosis of malignant and benign disorders of the digestive tract. the authors investigated the tissue distribution of two kinds of sialylated derivatives of lewis a (le(a)) antigen in patients with cancers of the digestive system using specific monoclonal antibodies, and evaluated the significance of determining the 2-3 and 2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen levels for the diagnosis of cancer. in most specimens from patients with cancers of the pancreas, biliary tract, stomach, and colon, the 2-3 sialylated le(a) antigen was strongly expressed in cancer cells. however, 2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen was less frequently expressed in cancer cells. the former is therefore more specific to cancer than the latter. also, the serum level of the 2-3 sialylated le(a) antigen was significantly higher than that of the 2-6 counterpart in patients with cancers of pancreas, biliary tract, stomach, and colon. the resulting ratio of serum 2-3/2-6 sialylated le(a) antigens was frequently high in patients with malignancy and was low in patients with benign disorders of these digestive organs. therefore, the 2-3/2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen ratio is a useful for the differential diagnosis of malignant disorders in these organs. however, liver disorders were found to be exceptional in that both antigens were mostly absent in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) cells in immunohistologic examination, as well as in nonmalignant parenchymal liver cells. only the epithelial cells of the intrahepatic bile ducts expressed the 2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen strongly, and expressed the 2-3 sialylated le(a) antigen moderately. the levels of both antigens were sometimes high in patients with liver disorders, but the ratio always remained low in patients with hcc as well as benign liver disorders such as cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis. the sialylated le(a) antigens, which sometimes accumulate in the sera of patients with hcc, were concluded to originate from the epithelial cells of the proliferating small bile ducts, and those serum antigens cannot be considered as evidence for the presence of liver cancer cells.
electrocardiographic signs of atrial overload in hypertensive patients: indexes of abnormality of atrial morphology or function? left atrial electrocardiographic (ecg) abnormalities have been reported as common findings in hypertension; however, their relationships with atrial anatomy are still uncertain. in addition, in arterial hypertension several studies demonstrated an abnormal left ventricular filling. the aim of this study was to investigate the relationships of the ecg signs of left atrial abnormality to atrial anatomy and left ventricular filling as evaluated by pulsed-wave (pw) doppler in a group of patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension. to this end, 53 untreated essential hypertensive patients (age 44 +/- 8 years; blood pressure 160.5 +/- 21.5/104.7 +/- 13.5 mm hg) underwent a complete 12-lead ecg and a pw doppler study of the transmitral flow velocities. the ecg criteria of left atrial abnormality were: p wave wider than 0.12 (or 0.10) second or higher than 0.25 mv in lead ii; p wave/pr segment ratio (macruz index) greater than 1.6 in lead ii; and p wave terminal forces in lead v1 equal to or more negative than 0.04. echocardiographic measurements were made according to american society of echocardiography (ase) convention. doppler parameters of left ventricular filling were measured as e and a peak velocity, a/e ratio, and the ratio between the velocity-time integral under the e peak and that of the whole diastolic flow, which represents the rapid filling fraction (rff). at least one ecg sign of atrial abnormality was present in 34 patients (64%); the macruz index gave the most common ecg index of atrial abnormality (31 patients).
rhinosporidiosis associated with squamous cell carcinoma in the tongue. the peritumoural region of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue when examined with light and electron microscope showed nodular bodies in the submucosa with all the distinctive features of 'sporangium and 'spores' of rhinosporidiosis. the occurrence of rhinosporidiosis in the tongue along with malignancy has not been reported hitherto. some interesting observations and causal relationships are discussed.
effect of age on the efficacy of blood pressure treatment strategies. to study whether the proportion of excess cardiovascular events attributable to various levels of systolic blood pressure varies with age, we calculated the population-attributable risk of all-cause mortality, fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events (stroke, coronary heart disease, angina, congestive heart failure, and peripheral vascular disease), and stroke incidence due to systolic blood pressure in men and women 45 years of age or older in the united states during 1980. our estimates are based on us census counts, blood pressure prevalence distributions from the second national health and nutrition examination survey, and the annual risk of cardiovascular complications during 18 years of follow-up in the framingham cohort. we then determined the impact of age on the relative efficacy of mass treatment and case-finding strategies in preventing systolic blood pressure-related events. at 45-54 years of age, only 30-40% of systolic blood pressure-related excess events occur in hypertensive individuals (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm hg). with increasing age, however, the percentage of systolic blood pressure-related events that occur in hypertensive individuals rose substantially; in the older age group (greater than or equal to 75 years), 65-70% of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular disease events occur in hypertensive persons. the pattern is similar for men and women. the potential impact of a mass treatment strategy designed to shift the distribution of blood pressure downward by a small amount is greater in younger than in older groups, whereas an opposite trend is seen for a high-risk, hypertensive case-finding and treatment approach.
lip paresthesia associated with a jaw mass. a case is reported in which mandibular swelling and lower lip numbness were the first signs of a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung. the development of paresthesia, with or without other oral symptoms, requires that a diagnosis of malignancy be considered until confirmed or ruled out by tissue biopsy. a thorough head and neck examination in all patients, especially in those whose history or habits may indicate increased risk of malignancy is necessary.
diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia in the surgical intensive care unit [published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 apr;172(4):324] it is often difficult to detect the onset of parenchymal pulmonary infection (pneumonia) in a surgical intensive care unit (sicu) setting. clinical and laboratory parameters that usually indicate the presence of pneumonia, such as fever, elevated white blood cell count and abnormal sputum culture, may also be present in patients with nonpneumonic infection. prompt diagnosis is particularly important for patients in sicu because the mortality rate associated with pneumonia in these patients may be as high as 50 per cent. in the sicu setting, pneumonia is best diagnosed using well-defined roentgenologic criteria. treatment should consist of a broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen to which all sputum pathogens are sensitive. such a regimen significantly reduces the mortality rate for patients with pneumonia in an sicu setting. aztreonam has been found to be as effective against susceptible gram-negative bacilli as traditional agents, such as the aminoglycosides, and to have a significantly milder side effect profile.
management of childhood diarrhoea by pharmacists and parents: is britain lagging behind the third world? objective--to investigate the role of community pharmacists in providing advice and treatment for children with diarrhoea; to investigate mothers' responses to diarrhoea in their children. design--cross sectional questionnaire study of a random selection of community pharmacists and of mothers attending child health clinics. pharmacists were interviewed and given a questionnaire and a separate group was visited by a researcher posing as a parent; mothers were interviewed at the clinic. setting--newcastle upon tyne. subjects--20 pharmacists were interviewed and visits by a researcher posing as a parent were carried out to 10 different pharmacists; 58 mothers were interviewed. main outcome measures--advice given by pharmacists was contrasted with standard advice on management of diarrhoea in children. results--half of the pharmacists interviewed and 70% of pharmacists visited by a researcher posing as a parent recommended inappropriate treatment of childhood diarrhoea (such as antidiarrhoeal drugs and withholding breast milk), and only 30% at interview stated that they would ask for the age of the child. mothers' knowledge of home treatment was inadequate. all pharmacists in the posed visits recommended a purchased treatment. conclusion--pharmacists are widely used by parents for consultation for children's ailments but their advice is not always appropriate; hence they should be given more consistent training in recognising and managing clinical problems. medical advice on management of diarrhoea is also inconsistent and should be modified to conform to the guidelines of the world health organisation.
continuous muscle fiber activity, peripheral neuropathy, and thymoma. two patients, one of them with myasthenia gravis, presented symptoms of continuous muscle fiber activity syndrome before discovery of a thymoma. peripheral neuropathy was present in both patients, with axonal and demyelinating lesions in sural nerve biopsy. the syndrome remained unchanged or worse after thymectomy. both patients died of associated complications.
exacerbation of bacterial toxicity to infant ferrets by influenza virus: possible role in sudden infant death syndrome [published erratum appears in j infect dis 1991 jul;164(1):232] of several toxins examined, only staphylococcal alpha and gamma toxin, endotoxin, and diphtheria toxins were lethal for 5-day-old ferrets. their toxicities were enhanced in animals infected at 1 day old with influenza virus, from 3-fold with staphylococcal gamma toxin through 14-fold for staphylococcal alpha toxin, 84-fold for endotoxin, and 219-fold for diphtheria toxin. no increased viral replication occurred in any tissue; thus the effects of the toxins were exacerbated by the infection, not vice versa. neonates died suddenly without clinical symptoms as in human babies dying from the sudden infant death syndrome (sids). pathologic examination showed inflammation in the upper respiratory tract, lung edema and collapse, and early bronchopneumonia in the toxin- and influenza virus-treated animals but not in those treated with toxin or virus alone. thus, bacterial toxins could play a role in sids, this being more likely with a concomitant influenza virus infection.
lymphocyte subset distribution after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix. possible prognostic implications and correlation with disease course. an analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations was done in patients with cancer of the uterine cervix before and at different intervals after the commencement of radiation therapy. a common feature was a duration of t-cell and b-cell lymphopenia after therapy. the findings relating to the t-cell subsets were interesting. although the cd4/cd8 ratio remained unchanged in stages i/iia for 24 months after treatment, patients with stages iib and iii showed a lowering of the ratio immediately after treatment. distinctive patterns of lymphocyte subset distribution were seen in a comparison between patients who were disease-free and those with recurrent disease. the cd4+ cell counts and cd4/cd8 ratio differed between the two groups, with consistent lowered values during the follow-up associated with recurrent disease. this study demonstrates the effects of radiation therapy in altering lymphocyte subset distribution, resulting in characteristic patterns which could be used as clinical and prognostic indicators.
structural and ultrastructural study of the ovary in childhood leukemia after successful treatment. ovarian biopsy specimens from ten girls (three postmenarcheal) who had undergone antiblastic treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and were in complete remission were examined by light microscope. the biopsy specimens from four of these patients (three postmenarcheal) were also observed by electron microscope. the structural and ultrastructural analysis showed a reduction in the number of follicles which were otherwise normal. no follicles were found in the thin sections from two of the three postmenarcheal girls, whereas normal follicles were observed in the third. the cortical stroma showed moderate to severe signs of fibrosis and changes of capillaries. all of these alterations were more evident in patients where all was diagnosed at an older age and this finding suggests that they are at a higher risk for low fertility or early menopause.
beta-lactam resistance mechanisms of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. in vitro and in vivo activity of amoxicillin and penicillin g alone or combined with a penicillinase inhibitor (clavulanate) were tested against five isogenic pairs of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) producing or not producing penicillinase. loss of the penicillinase plasmid caused an eight times or greater reduction in the mics of amoxicillin and penicillin g (from greater than or equal to 64 to 8 micrograms/ml), but not of the penicillinase-resistant drugs methicillin and cloxacillin (greater than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml). this difference in antibacterial effectiveness correlated with a more than 10 times greater penicillin-binding protein 2a affinity of amoxicillin and penicillin g than of methicillin and a greater than or equal to 90% successful amoxicillin treatment of experimental endocarditis due to penicillinase-negative mrsa compared with cloxacillin, which was totally ineffective (p less than .001). amoxicillin was also effective against penicillinase-producing parent mrsa, provided it was combined with clavulanate. penicillinase-sensitive beta-lactam antibiotics plus penicillinase inhibitors might offer a rational alternative treatment for mrsa infections.
incidence of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis: application to prophylaxis of first bleeding. because several studies have suggested that beta blockers are effective in the prophylaxis of first variceal bleeding in cirrhosis, screening for oesophageal varices might be appropriate. we prospectively studied 84 cirrhotic patients without obvious evidence of large oesophageal varices and previous bleeding during a mean follow up of 16 months. at entry to the study 41 patients had no oesophageal varices and in 43 these were grade 1. the subsequent percentages of patients without large oesophageal varices were 74% at one year and 52% at two years. univariate analysis showed that a longer duration of cirrhosis (p less than 0.05) and grade 1 oesophageal varices at entry (p less than 0.001) were predictive factors for the occurrence of large oesophageal varices, whereas, multivariate analysis showed that the initial size of the oesophageal varices (p less than 0.001), a high initial child-pugh score, and a smaller improvement in child-pugh score during the study were independent risk factors. among patients with grades 0 and 1 oesophageal varices at the start of the study the proportions with large oesophageal varices at two years were 31% and 70% respectively. we have calculated that, accepting a maximum risk of first bleeding of 10% without prophylactic treatment, a patient without oesophageal varices should be screened endoscopically every other year, while a patient with grade 1 disease should benefit from one annual upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
nicardipine reduces the cardio-respiratory toxicity of intravenously administered bupivacaine in rats. the purpose of our study was to examine the effect of intravenous (iv) nicardipine pretreatment (30 micrograms.kg-1), given three minutes before an iv bolus of bupivacaine to determine its effect on the incidence of fatal bupivacaine cardio-respiratory toxicity in adult male sprague dawley rats anaesthetized with intraperitoneal pentobarbital. fifty rats were divided into four groups. groups i and ii (n = 10 each) received 3.5 mg.kg-1 0.5 per cent bupivacaine and groups iii and iv (n = 15 each) received 5.0 mg.kg-1, 0.5 per cent bupivacaine. groups i and iii received pretreatment with normal saline before bupivacaine, whereas groups ii and iv were given pretreatment with nicardipine, 30 mg.kg-1. there was no difference in the incidence of survival between the nicardipine pretreatment group and the saline placebo pretreatment group given 3.5 mg.kg-1, 0.5 per cent bupivacaine (no fatalities in either group). however, there was significant protection by nicardipine pretreatment in the group given 5 mg.kg-1, 0.5 per cent bupivacaine (13 of 15 survived, compared with only 4 of 15 in the saline pretreatment group, p less than 0.001). in conclusion, our data demonstrate that in rats given 0.5 per cent bupivacaine, 5 mg.kg-1, nicardipine pretreatment protected against fatal cardio-respiratory toxicity.
impairment of cerebral autoregulation during the development of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage in primates. we studied the impairment of autoregulation of cerebral blood flow (cbf) and its effect on the electrical activity of the brain during the development of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage, using a vasospasm model in primates. fourteen animals were divided into two groups: a clot group (8) and a sham-operated group (6). to induce subarachnoid hemorrhage, all the animals underwent craniectomy, and in the clot group, the autologous blood clot was located around the arteries dissected free from the arachnoid membrane. cerebral angiography was performed before subarachnoid hemorrhage and 7 days after (day 7). on day 7, regional cbf in the parietal lobe--measured by the hydrogen clearance method--and central conduction time were studied during either graded hypertension or hypotension. in the clot group, the mean vessel caliber of the cerebral arteries on the right side (clot side) of the circle of willis showed significant (p less than 0.01) reduction (more than 40%) as compared with the values on the contralateral, non-clot side. the values for the bilateral parietal cbf in the sham-operated group and the left parietal cbf in the clot group were fairly constant when the mean arterial blood pressure (mabp) was in the range of 60 to 160 mm hg. in the clot group, right parietal cbf was significantly (p less than 0.05) smaller than that on the left side at an mabp level of 40 to 100 mm hg, and increased at an mabp level of 180 mm hg. the right parietal cbf increased as the arterial blood pressure increased, showing impairment of autoregulation.
pancreatic carcinoma in an elderly woman with an organic affective disorder and aids delusion. an elderly woman with symptoms of depression and an aids delusion was found also to have pancreatic carcinoma. i have discussed her case in conjunction with organic affective disorder, the evaluation of depression in the elderly, and suicide in the elderly.
fistulas between the aorta and tracheobronchial tree. aortobronchial fistula is a rare condition that is invariably fatal if not diagnosed and surgically treated. with appropriate surgical intervention, survival rates greater than 70% can be achieved. a review of the literature and an illustrative case report are presented. a total of 63 fistulas in 62 patients have been described. the case we present is unusual in the use of serratus anterior muscle for repair of the fistula. eighty-seven percent of the cases documented in the literature were associated with an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. eighty-six percent of the fistulas were between the descending aorta and left bronchopulmonary tree. more than 95% of patients experienced at least a single episode of hemoptysis, and massive hemoptysis occurred in more than half of the reported cases. a correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only 54% of cases. plain chest radiographs definitively demonstrated an aneurysm in only 16%. the computed tomographic scan was the most rewarding test, identifying an aneurysm in 11 of 12 patients and the fistula in 50% of them. surgical repair resulted in a 76% survival rate.
control of immediate postoperative pain with topical bupivacaine hydrochloride for laparoscopic falope ring tubal ligation. conflicting reports exist in the literature on the effectiveness of topical local anesthetic applied to the serosal surface of the fallopian tubes for the control of immediate postoperative pain after mechanical (band or clip) tubal ligation. sixty-four patients were studied prospectively during outpatient laparoscopic falope ring tubal ligation using the modified mcgill present pain intensity scale. patients randomly assigned to four groups received topical bupivacaine hydrochloride on both fallopian tubes, the right tube only, or the left tube only, or received none (controls). a unique study design was incorporated which allowed the untreated fallopian tube to serve as a within-subject control for each patient receiving unilateral treatment. statistical analysis confirmed significant benefit when both fallopian tubes were treated as compared with no treatment (p less than .05). there was also consistent evidence of decreased immediate postoperative pain perception on the treated side for patients receiving unilateral treatment. the value of topical bupivacaine was demonstrated by both subjective patient response (mcgill pain scale) and reduced need for pain medication before outpatient discharge. our data support the value of topical bupivacaine applied to the serosal surface of the fallopian tubes for the reduction of postoperative pain after outpatient laparoscopic mechanical (band or clip) tubal ligation.
positive results of combined therapy of surgery and intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion for far-advanced gastric cancer. to evaluate the clinical efficacy of intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion (iphp) for far-advanced gastric cancer, particularly with peritoneal seeding, we investigated the survival times of 59 patients who underwent distal subtotal gastrectomy, total gastrectomy, or total gastrectomy combined with concomitant resection of some of the remaining intra-abdominal organs. in all the 30 patients given iphp, no cancer cells were present posthyperthermically in the lavage from the douglas pouch. the 30 patients given iphp lived longer than the 29 patients not given iphp (p = 0.001), with a 1-year survival rate of 80.4% in the former group compared to 34.2% in the latter. with respect to a comparison of survival time of patients with peritoneal seeding, 7 patients not given iphp had a 6-month survival rate of 57.1% and did not survive more than 9 months, whereas 20 patients given iphp had 1- and 2-year survival rates of 78.7% and 45.0%, respectively; here the difference was significant (p = 0.001). the iphp and control groups without peritoneal metastasis included 10 and 22 patients, respectively, and the 1-year survival rates are 85.4% and 45.3%, respectively. the survival rates of the former exceeded those of the latter, with p = 0.015 by the generalized wilcoxon test. thus this combined therapy offers the promise of extended survival for patients with far-advanced gastric cancer.
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. reoperation for pouch-related complications. the aim was to assess the value of reoperative surgery for pouch-related complications after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (ipaa) for chronic ulcerative colitis and familial adenomatous polyposis. between january 1981 and august 1989, 114 of 982 ipaa patients (12%) seen at the mayo clinic had complications directly related to ipaa that required reoperation. among the 114 patients, the complications prevented initial ileostomy closure in 33 patients (25%), occurred after ileostomy closure in 68 patients (60%), and delayed ileostomy closure in the remaining patients. the salvage procedures performed included anal dilatation under anesthesia for anastomotic strictures, placement of setons and/or fistulotomy for perianal fistulae, unroofing of anastomotic sinuses, simple drainage and antibiotics for perianal abscesses, abdominal exploration with drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses with or without establishment of ileostomy, and complete or partial reconstruction of the reservoir for patients with inadequate emptying. none of the reoperated patients died. reoperation led to restoration of pouch function in two thirds of patients and, of these, 70% had an excellent clinical outcome. however approximately 20% of the 114 pouches required excision. excision was common, especially among patients who had pelvic sepsis. salvage procedures for pouch-specific complications can be done safely and will restore pouch function in two thirds of patients. complications after reoperation, however, may ultimately lead to loss of the reservoir in one in five patients.
evaluation of a simple line width test involving magnetic resonance spectroscopy of plasma in carcinoma of the ovary. magnetic resonance spectroscopic (mrs) measurement of human plasma has been reported as a generally applicable marker for malignancy: patients with malignancy had a mrs line width significantly different from patients with benign diseases or healthy controls. the authors investigated the value of this test in 213 women with ovarian carcinoma, benign pelvic masses, benign nongynecologic diseases, and healthy controls. the mrs measurements were performed on plasma samples at 21 degrees c or 27 degrees c. the line width parameters were obtained by averaging the width at half the height of the methyl and methylene peaks on the resonance spectra. at 27 degrees c using 33 hz as the threshold for an abnormal result, there was a significant correlation between the result of the test and the presence or absence of malignancy. however, the study demonstrates that the specificity (0.44) and positive predictive value (0.42) are too low for the test to be useful in the management of patients with carcinoma of the ovary. at 21 degrees c no correlation between the results of the test and the clinical status of women with carcinoma of the ovary were observed. in 47 patients the test did not predict preoperatively the benign or malignant nature of a pelvic mass.
long-term course of patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after apparent curative primary surgery for medullary thyroid carcinoma. thirty-one patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after seemingly adequate primary operation for medullary thyroid carcinoma (mtc) were followed for a mean period of 11.9 years after operation. ten patients had sporadic mtc and the remaining patients were members of families with multiple endocrine neoplasia (men)--either men 2a (15 patients) or men 2b (six patients). overall 5- and 10-year survival rates were 90% and 86%, respectively. only four patients died at the completion of the study: two of mtc and two of unrelated causes. eleven patients (35.5%) underwent surgical re-exploration after demonstration of recurrent disease clinically or radiologically. in no patient did the calcitonin level return to normal after re-exploration. the presence of more than three metastatic nodes at the time of initial operation was a statistically significant (p = 0.003) predictor for disease recurrence. factors approaching statistical significance were patients younger than age 35 (p = 0.06) and the percentage of cells in the s phase of cell division (0.07). this data supports a conservative surgical philosophy in the management of the patient with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after resection of mtc.
anti-kveim monoclonal antibody. new monoclonal antibody reacting to epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas. a monoclonal antibody to the sarcoid granulomagenic agent contained in kveim suspension was prepared by immunizing mice with kveim suspension. one monoclonal antibody (ihy-1) that reacted with the epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas on immunoperoxidase technique was selected. the immunoperoxidase technique was used to compare this monoclonal antibody's binding to sarcoidosis- or tuberculosis-affected lymph nodes. ihy-1 is a monoclonal antibody of igm class. this antibody did not react to erythrocytes, lymphocytes, monocytes, alveolar macrophages, or the macrophage-derived cell lines such as u-973 and kg-1. it reacted to granuloma epithelioid cells of sarcoidosis-affected lymph nodes. the monoclonal antibody also reacted positively to epithelioid cells in tuberculous granulomas although the reaction was not as strong. since ihy-1 was found to bind to both types of granulomas, this suggests that the epithelioid cells in sarcoidosis have antigenicity common to the epithelioid cells in tuberculosis.
endocardial resection in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia secondary to cardiac trauma. sustained ventricular tachycardia with left ventricular aneurysm formation is a rare complication following penetrating cardiac trauma. we present an unusual case of serious ventricular tachycardia which developed 35 years after a world war ii injury and was successfully treated with aneurysmectomy, map-guided subendocardial resection, and cryoablation.
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators. a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described, and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported. nine patients use their implants for micturition, and seven are fully continent. the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed.
regression of atherosclerosis: what does it mean? angiographic evidence of coronary artery atherosclerosis regression has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials. the significance of this regression appears to depend in a complex way on the degree of atherosclerosis present when a regression regimen is initiated. angiographic trials indicate that lesion change is a continuum, with a gradual transition from progression to stability and regression. divergent lesion change can be seen in the same patient with a progression of some lesions and a regression of others. this makes it necessary to perform a comprehensive survey of all visible coronary segments when evaluating angiograms to determine the outcome of a clinical trial. an important finding in clinical trials is that new lesion formation can be reduced. this indicates that effective control of atherosclerosis may be possible with procedures now available, but noninvasive coronary artery imaging methods need to be refined.
a predominantly adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. a 61-year-old woman who presented with diabetes, nausea, weight loss and sweating was found to have a phaeochromocytoma secreting adrenaline, with a small amount of n-methyladrenaline. there was no significant increase in noradrenaline secretion. she was normotensive, and developed profound hypotension in response to the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine. these features are unusual in phaeochromocytoma, but similar features occurred in the very few previous reported cases of pure adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. we conclude that it is important to identify such patients, so that they should not be given alpha-adrenergic antagonist drugs.
atherosclerotic carotid disease and the eye. the evaluation and management of retinal ischemia from atherosclerotic carotid disease is in a state of flux reflected by the change from emphasizing surgical management in the '70s toward skepticism about the benefit of surgery in the '80s. in addition, reliable noninvasive diagnostic testing of the carotid artery has reduced the risk. the decision to consider surgical versus medical management must be made on an individual basis based on the patient's health, age, and the risk of angiography and surgery at each institution. in children and young adults, amaurosis fugax is a benign condition. in the older population amaurosis fugax is often the sentinel event of diffuse atherosclerotic disease and possible early death from myocardial infarction. a team including the neurologist, internist, ophthalmologist, and surgeon optimizes care of the whole disease and not just the symptom. it is hoped that information in the next decade will supply additional guidance in the care of this multifaceted malady.
a,b blood group antigens in tissues of ab heterozygotes. emphasis on normal and neoplastic urothelium. the tissue distribution of the a and b blood group antigens was studied in 41 individuals with the heterozygous ab red blood cell (rbc) phenotype. a total of 134 biopsies from a variety of normal tissues (94 from urothelium and 40 from other tissues) were examined. in addition, changes in the expression of these antigens associated with neoplastic transformation were evaluated in 70 biopsies from transitional cell carcinomas of 19 ab heterozygous patients. there was heterogeneity in the distribution of tissue a and b antigens, depending on the cell type, as well as among cells of the same type. ninety-one percent of ab heterozygotes expressed both a and b antigens in normal epithelial cells, with a mosaic distribution clearly apparent in 50% of these individuals. in 21% of these subjects, the a antigen was undetectable in the vascular endothelial cells in all biopsies from several organs. in most (79%) transitional cell neoplasms, only one of the two antigens was consistently expressed. the results of this study may have implications for the clonal or specific gene deletion theories of neoplasia. they also demonstrate the existence of a subgroup of ab individuals in whom the a antigen is absent specifically from the vascular endothelium.
morbidity associated with childhood systemic lupus erythematosus. a complete analysis of the outcome of childhood onset systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) requires determination of survival statistics and consideration of disease and treatment morbidity. the course of 32 patients with sle diagnosed at or prior to age 16 and followed from 1979-1988 was analyzed with emphasis on the morbidity of pediatric sle. clinical characteristics were similar to those in previous studies. five year survival, calculated by life-table analysis, was 85.3%, comparable to recent studies. treatment consisted of corticosteroids (32 patients), antimalarials (14), cyclophosphamide (9) or azathioprine (2). eighty-four percent of patients experienced a noninfectious drug related complication. a major infection contributed in all 5 patients who died. higher total corticosteroid dose was associated with more severe infections. eighty-eight percent of patients were left with chronic organ dysfunction. survival in childhood onset sle has improved, but morbidity remains a significant problem from organ dysfunction and complications of therapy. our study is the first to address the issue of morbidity in childhood sle.
filler dna is associated with spontaneous deletions in maize. we have determined the structure of five spontaneous deletions within the maize waxy (wx) gene. of these, four were found in spontaneous wx mutants (wx-b, wx-b1, wx-b6, wx-c4) and include exon sequences; the fifth is restricted to an intron and represents a restriction fragment length polymorphism of a nonmutant allele (wx-w23). the deletions, which range in size from 60 to 980 base pairs (bp), cluster in a g+c-rich region of approximately 1000 bp that is capable of forming stable secondary structures. most striking is our finding that all of the alleles have dna insertions (filler dna) of 1-131 bp between the deletion endpoints. for three of the five deletions, the filler dna and sequences at the deletion termini appear to be derived from sequences near one deletion endpoint. a previously reported spontaneous deletion of the maize bronze gene (bz-r) also contains filler dna. the association of filler dna with maize deletion endpoints contrasts dramatically with the rarity of similar events in animal germ-line and bacterial mutations.
renal function in obstructive jaundice in man: cholangiocarcinoma model. renal function with respect to water clearance and renal hemodynamics was studied in 15 patients with obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma. the results were compared with those of the control normal subjects. there was no change in renal function in the patients with mild to moderate jaundice, with total serum bilirubin from 8.0 to 15.1 mg/dl. increased urinary sodium excretion and decreased free water and negative water clearances were observed in the patients with severe jaundice with total serum bilirubin from 27.0 to 40.4 mg/dl and normal serum albumin. renal blood flow was normal, but creatinine clearance was decreased. in severely jaundiced patients with serum bilirubin from 30.5 to 40.1 mg/dl and hypoalbuminemia urinary sodium excretion, free water clearance, negative water clearance, renal blood flow and creatinine clearance were decreased. there was salt and water retention in this group. the findings suggest that in severe jaundice there is inhibition of sodium chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of henle's loop. adh and increased hydraulic conductivity of the collecting tubules possibly contribute to decreased free water clearance. in severely jaundiced patients with hypoalbuminemia this salt losing effect is converted to salt retention by increased proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium.
antagonism of serotonin s3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens the control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem. in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we evaluated the effect of serotonin s3 receptor blockade with ondansetron (gr 38032f) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy. cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous (iv) doses of 0.15 mg/kg. most patients had breast cancer. cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin (65% of patients) or with fluorouracil (85% of patients: 50% with adriamycin [doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh] and 35% with methotrexate). all placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting, whereas 70% of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit (p = .008). median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo (p less than .001). seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite, compared with 10% of placebo patients. adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient. diarrhea and headache were the most common events, both occurring more frequently in the placebo group. there were no extrapyramidal reactions, and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient. these results suggest that serotonin s3 receptor antagonists represent a novel, effective, and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies. in addition, our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin, acting on s3 receptors, mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy.
antiemetic prophylaxis with promethazine or droperidol in paediatric outpatient strabismus surgery. this randomized, double-blind study evaluated the antiemetic efficacy and the side-effects of promethazine pretreatment (0.5 mg.kg-1 iv + 0.5 mg.kg-1 im) versus droperidol + placebo pretreatment (droperidol, 0.075 mg.kg-1 iv + physiological saline, 0.02 ml.kg-1 im). one hundred unpremedicated asa physical status i children ranging from two to ten years, and undergoing outpatient strabismus surgery were studied. all children received inhalational anaesthesia with halothane, nitrous oxide and oxygen. neither opioids nor muscle relaxants were used. the incidence of vomiting and/or retching and the incidence of side-effects were determined in the post-anaesthesia recovery room (parr), in the short-stay surgical unit (sssu), and after discharge from the hospital (including the journey and the stay at home during the first postoperative day). promethazine and droperidol were equally effective in reducing the incidence of vomiting before discharge to two and eight per cent respectively. on the contrary, the incidence of vomiting after discharge and overall were significantly less with promethazine (ten and ten per cent) than with droperidol pretreatment (54 and 56 per cent) (p less than 0.0001). promethazine permitted the time to discharge from the hospital to be reduced to an average of three hours, without increasing the incidence of vomiting postdischarge. promethazine pretreatment is much less expensive than droperidol pretreatment. the incidence of restlessness was significantly less with droperidol (eight per cent) than with promethazine (36 per cent) (p less than 0.001). promethazine pretreatment demands the use of an analgesic like acetaminophen in order to reduce the incidence of postoperative pain and restlessness.
assessing clinical significance of apnea exceeding fifteen seconds with event recording. using event recording, we determined how often apnea exceeding 15 seconds in duration was associated with bradycardia and how often patients with apnea resumed breathing spontaneously. of 1306 documented apnea events exceeding 15 seconds (54 patients), 926 lasted 16 to 20 seconds, 262 lasted 21 to 25 seconds, and 118 exceeded 25 seconds. of these episodes, 75.3% were isolated and 14.9% were associated with pulse deceleration, 4.4% with irregular transthoracic impedance, and 5.4% with bradycardia. event recording provided data supporting discontinuation of monitoring in 50 of 54 patients: 36 spontaneously resumed breathing before the auditory alarm and 14 had a decreased incidence of apnea with maturation. follow-up of 51 patients (three not located) showed that none had subsequent apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome. our results in these older infants and children (median age 6.7 months) provide substantiation that such patients with apnea of less than 20 seconds without bradycardia do not require continued monitoring. further, these data suggest that in selected older infants, longer isolated apnea may be well tolerated; however, hemoglobin saturation during sleep and the ability to resume breathing after the apnea alarm delay is prolonged should be verified. our patient population had a wide age range and heterogeneity of diagnoses, and was typically free of symptoms, so these results should not be extrapolated uncritically to premature infants, infants with chronic lung disease, and patients with symptomatic apnea.
influence of desflurane on regional distribution of coronary blood flow in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery obstruction. the influence of desflurane on myocardial perfusion measured by a microsphere technique during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant moderate or severe stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery was evaluated in chronically instrumented dogs. hemodynamics, regional contractile function, and myocardial blood flow were measured during the conscious state and after anesthesia with desflurane (8.2%-9.2% and 12.5%-12.7%) with and without control of arterial pressure. total left anterior descending occlusion produced in combination with a left circumflex coronary artery stenosis significantly (p less than 0.05) increased heart rate and left ventricular end diastolic pressure in the absence of desflurane anesthesia. desflurane, administered only in the presence of left anterior descending occlusion and left circumflex stenosis, significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased mean arterial pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure, and left ventricular positive dp/dt50 without change in heart rate. blood flow to the subendocardium of normal myocardium was reduced during the high concentration of desflurane (p less than 0.05), but perfusion of the subepicardium and midmyocardium was maintained at conscious levels. when the left circumflex stenosis was of moderate severity, only blood flow to the subendocardium distal to the stenosis was reduced by desflurane (p less than 0.05). in the presence of a severe stenosis, perfusion was decreased in the subepicardium, midmyocardium, and subendocardium of the stenotic zone (p less than 0.05). during the reduction in arterial pressure produced by desflurane, collateral blood flow in the left anterior descending region was reduced in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis (p less than 0.05). when arterial pressure and heart rate conditions observed in the postocclusion conscious state were restored during the high concentration of desflurane, myocardial blood flow in all regions returned to those levels present in the conscious state (p less than 0.05). ratios of flow between occluded and normal zones were decreased when hypotension produced by desflurane was uncontrolled, but when arterial pressure and heart rate were adjusted to conscious postocclusion levels using partial thoracic aorta occlusion and atrial pacing, the ratio remained at conscious control levels regardless of the degree of left circumflex stenosis severity (p less than 0.05). results of this investigation indicate that desflurane does not redistribute blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions via a "coronary steal" mechanism in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease.
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections: mechanisms of death. clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined. the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial. severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths (15.5%). pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children (59.2%). heart failure (8.5%), hypovolemia (4.2%), and nosocomial infection (12.6%) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection. extensive consolidation, squamous metaplasia, and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children. patients with severe disease must receive, in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes, individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care. since these types of care are not available in poor communities, vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease.
the isolation and characterization of a norwalk virus-specific cdna. norwalk virus, an important cause of epidemic, acute, nonbacterial gastroenteritis in adults and children, has eluded adaptation to tissue culture, the development of an animal model, and molecular cloning. in this study, a portion of the norwalk viral genome encoding an immunoreactive region was cloned from very small quantities of infected stool using sequence-independent single primer amplification. six overlapping complementary dna (cdna) clones were isolated by immunologic screening. the expressed recombinant protein from a representative clone reacted with six of seven high titer. norwalk-specific, postinfection sera but not with corresponding preinfection sera. nucleic acid sequence for all clones defined a single open reading frame contiguous with the lambda gt11-expressed beta-galactosidase protein. only oligonucleotide probes specific for the positive strand (defined by the open reading frame) hybridized to an rnasea-sensitive, dnasei-resistant nucleic acid sequence extracted from norwalk-infected stool. furthermore, rna extracted from serial postinfection, but not preinfection, stools from three of five volunteers hybridized to a norwalk virus cdna probe. clone-specific oligonucleotide probes hybridized with cesium chloride gradient fractions containing purified norwalk virion. in conclusion, an antigenic, protein-coding region of the norwalk virus genome has been identified. this epitope has potential utility in future sero- and molecular epidemiologic studies of norwalk viral gastroenteritis.
omeprazole. overview and opinion. omeprazole, a substituted benzimidazole, is a specific inhibitor of the enzyme h+/k(+)-atpase, which is found on the secretory surface of the parietal cell. this enzyme, the "proton pump," catalyzes the final step in acid secretion. omeprazole is a powerful inhibitor of gastric acid secretion. at the time of writing, omeprazole has been licensed in the united states for the treatment of severe grades of gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) as well as gerd unresponsive to treatment with currently available agents, and for the treatment of zollinger-ellison syndrome and other gastric hypersecretory states. most recently, it has been recommended by the fda advisory committee for approval as first-line therapy in duodenal ulcer disease.
cause of thrombosis in human atherosclerotic arteries. although it has been known for a long time that thrombosis nearly always develops in atherosclerotic arteries--and almost never in normal vessels--the mechanism through which atherosclerosis promotes thrombosis was unknown until this problem was explored through histologic examination of complete serial section sets of thrombosed atherosclerotic arteries. these studies, repeatedly confirmed, revealed that the thrombi are triggered by microscopic cracks in the collagen cap of advanced plaques. blood most often seeps from the arterial lumen through the cracks into the underlying lipid gruel before the breaks or cracks are plugged by the thrombi (which function as hemostatic seals of the breaks). these results are parallel to results of experimental studies in which the synergism of endotheliotoxic and pressor agents produced thrombi over cap breaks and sub-break hemorrhages only in arteries with advanced collagen-rich plaques, not in arteries with early atherosclerosis or in normal vessels. this finding indicates that advanced atherosclerosis makes the arterial wall much more fragile and that, once broken, this wall exposes the blood to powerful thrombogenic materials that do not exist in normal arterial tissue. at present, human and experimental evidence suggest that the thrombogenic fissures of advanced plaque caps can be promoted by several factors, such as a surge in intraarterial pressure or insults that damage the caps structurally and increase their vulnerability to any type of stress such as certain metabolic, exogenous chemical and immune insults, spontaneous molecular changes of collagen with time and hemorrhages of capillaries that invade advanced plaques from the adventitia or the arterial lumen.
endourological treatment of ureteroenteric anastomotic strictures: long-term followup. in 1987 we reported our initial experience with an endosurgical incisional approach to ureteroenteric anastomotic strictures (that is endoureterotomy). we have extended that initial report to encompass 15 patients with 19 ureteroenteric strictures followed for an average of 2.5 years. in all cases an endosurgical approach was well tolerated, blood loss was less than 50 cc and hospital stay averaged 3.5 days. a 16 to 22f external stent was left in place for 4 to 6 weeks postoperatively in 14 strictures. a permanent external 12f catheter was left in 5 strictures due to the presence of metastatic disease (4) and a complete dense stricture (1). the only major complication was a ureteroenteric fistula that healed over a ureteral stent without any open surgical intervention. among 14 ureteroenteric strictures in which the stent was removed, the ureteroenteric area has remained patent in 8 (57%) with an average followup of 28.6 months (range 9 to 57 months). failures were associated with metastatic disease in 2 cases, generalized debility in 2 and unexplained in 2. in this series an endosurgical approach to ureteroenteric strictures provided long-term satisfactory management of the problem in the majority of patients with benign and malignant disease. by current standards, only 1 patient (7%) would have been considered a candidate for open surgical repair.
pulmonary vascular steal in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, performed for relief of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, perfusion lung scans have frequently disclosed new perfusion defects in segments served by undissected pulmonary arteries. our hypotheses were that these new postoperative defects occurred with great frequency and did not represent postoperative vessel occlusion. we retrospectively reviewed the preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of 33 consecutive patients undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. new postoperative perfusion defects were noted in 23 of 33 patients. the incidence of new defects was increased tenfold in segments that had (1) normal preoperative angiographic findings, (2) normal preoperative radionuclide perfusion, and (3) not been entered at the time of surgery. postoperative angiograms, available in 15 of 33 patients, documented the nonembolic, nonocclusive nature of the new perfusion scan defects. the most plausible alternate explanation for this previously undescribed finding is a redistribution of pulmonary arterial resistance induced by the thromboendarterectomy, namely, a pulmonary vascular "steal.".
an eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an l-tryptophan containing product. a syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of l-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the centers for disease control. we report a case of this new clinical entity, highlighted by severe myositis, and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes.
molteno implants and operating microscope-induced retinal phototoxicity. a clinicopathologic report. the right eye of a 75-year-old man with a history of cataract extraction, three penetrating keratoplasties, laser trabeculoplasty, two molteno implants, and an operating microscope-induced retinal phototoxic lesion was studied post mortem. histopathologic examination of the anterior segment showed evidence of penetrating keratoplasty, cataract surgery, and two molteno implants with minimal associated tissue response. ultrastructural examination showed a loose collagenous matrix surrounding the molteno reservoirs, suggesting aqueous percolation from the reservoirs into the conjunctiva. posteriorly, in the area of the phototoxic operating microscope-induced lesion, a nodule of retinal pigment epithelial hyperplasia with overlying atrophy of the photoreceptor cell layer of the neurosensory retina was noted. the retina also contained cystoid macular edema and an extensive preretinal membrane that was clinically unexpected.
spect quantitation of iodine-131 concentration in phantoms and human tumors. the validity of spect measurement of iodine-131 (131i) concentration was tested in vitro in phantoms and in vivo by measuring bladder urine concentrations. phantom studies comparing known and spect measured concentrations showed a good correlation for 131i (r = 0.98, s.e.e. = 20.94 counts/voxel) for phantoms of 25 to 127 cc and concentrations of 0.13 to 9.5 microci/cc. the in vivo, in vitro correlation of 131i concentrations in the urine was also good (r = 0.98, s.e.e. = 0.677 microci/cc). quantitative spect was used to calculate the effective half-life and dosimetry of radioiodine in 12 sites of thyroid carcinoma in seven patients. spect was also used to determine the dosimetry of [131i]mibg (metaiodobenzylguanidine) in two patients with carcinoid, two with neuroblastoma, and one with pheochromocytoma. the radiation dose for thyroid carcinoma metastases varied between 6.3 and 276.9 rad/mci. the dose from mibg varied between 13.4 and 57.8 rad/mci. these results indicate the validity of quantitative spect for in vivo measurement of 131i and the need to measure the concentration of 131i in individual human tumor sites.
color doppler imaging. a new noninvasive technique to diagnose and monitor carotid cavernous sinus fistulas. color doppler imaging is a recent development in ultrasonography that allows for simultaneous two-dimensional structural imaging and doppler evaluation of blood flow. with this technique, one patient with a traumatic carotid cavernous sinus fistula and two patients with spontaneous dural cavernous arteriovenous malformations were evaluated. color doppler imaging demonstrated a dilated superior ophthalmic vein with arterialized blood flow in all three patients. in two cases the diagnosis was confirmed by angiography, and in one of these cases the fistula was occluded with a detachable balloon catheter. postembolization color doppler imaging revealed return of normal venous flow in the superior ophthalmic vein. this technique offers a noninvasive means to confirm the clinical diagnosis and to track the hemodynamics of these arteriovenous fistulas. in certain cases, color doppler imaging may eliminate the need for computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of suspected arteriovenous malformations of the orbit.
bladder perforation resulting from the use of the neodymium:yag laser. complications resulting from the use of the neodymium:yag (nd:yag) laser to treat superficial bladder cancer are uncommon and are usually associated with abnormally high laser power outputs. we report a case of bladder perforation in a human attributed to the nd:yag laser used at a low power setting and comment on those factors that contributed to this complication.
screening for biotinidase deficiency in children with unexplained neurologic or developmental abnormalities. to test the hypothesis that the frequency of biotinidase deficiency is greater in children with unexplained developmental delay or neurologic abnormalities than in the general population, we studied children seen at a large outpatient clinic over a four-year period who had one or more of these neurologic abnormalities and for whom no specific cause for their abnormalities could be found. the group totaled 274 children (163 boys; 111 girls) whose ages ranged from 2 weeks to 17 years. characteristics were iq/dq, 30 to 70 in the 115 for whom scores were available; 41% had seizures; 15% had sensorineural hearing loss; 54% showed gross motor delay or ataxia; and 27% had decreased muscle tone. one patient with a classical clinical picture of biotinidase deficiency was diagnosed during the study period and was not included in the study. none of the patients with nonclassic findings had a deficiency of biotinidase activity. our results suggest that biotinidase deficiency does not account for a large proportion of children with unexplained neurologic abnormalities or developmental delay. this does not negate the importance of biotinidase testing in children with clinical patterns specifically suggestive of the deficiency.
visual disturbance in patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk. visual disturbance in 11 patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk was analyzed. goldmann visual field examination showed enlargement of mariotte's blind spot in 7 of 10 patients (70%) and visual field defect or depression in 7 patients (70%). in 6 of the 7 patients with visual field defect of depression (86%), the portion of visual field damage corresponded with the location of the tumor and retinal nerve fiber bundle defect. in 1 patient, sudden loss of visual acuity occurred, presumably due to anterior ischemic optic neuropathy induced by melanocytoma.
prevalence of carcinoma in situ and other histopathological abnormalities in testes from 399 men who died suddenly and unexpectedly. to determine the prevalence of carcinoma in situ of the testis and other testicular histopathological abnormalities in the general male population, we examined gonads from 399 men 18 to 50 years old who died suddenly and unexpectedly. no sign of malignancy was found in any of these gonads. however, 3 of the 399 men had been previously treated for testicular tumor or carcinoma in situ. thus, the over-all prevalence of testicular neoplasia in the population studied was 0.8% (95% confidence limits 0.2 to 2.2%). this frequency is of the same magnitude as the lifetime risk of testicular cancer in the danish male population. the median weights of the left and right testes were 19.3 and 19.7 gm., respectively. this difference was statistically significant (p = 0.00003). thus, our study confirmed that on average the left testis is smaller than the right testis. the median weight of the gonads collected in our study was 0.9 gm. lower than the weight of testes examined 40 years earlier at the same department of forensic medicine. however, this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.17). microscopic examination of the gonadal specimens revealed that 83% of the men exhibited complete spermatogenesis, including late spermatids in all tubules. in the age group studied we found no age-related changes in testicular weight or in the proportion of tubules with degenerative changes, such as spermatogenic arrest, the sertoli-cell-only syndrome or hyalinization.
clinical choices for circulatory assist devices. approximately 1.0% of open heart surgery patients become unweanable from cardiac bypass during the surgical procedure. in addition, nearly 20% of patients accepted for cardiac transplantation die while waiting for a donor heart. pulsatile pneumatic ventricular assist devices (vads) provide a realistic solution to these dilemmas. currently, there are five manufacturers who are competing for the major market share in the clinical use of these devices. novacor, thermetics, thoratec, symbion, and abiomed all have competitive vad systems. because no one system is optimal for all patients, the limitations, similarities, and strengths of each system should be known to enhance the patient's outcome when using these devices. successful use of vad systems, either as a bridge to transplantation or to ventricular recovery, is best approached by adherence to strict patient selection. once instituted, vad management centers on detailed attention to anticoagulation and prompt diagnosis and treatment of various complications.
effect of motilin on gastric emptying in patients with diabetic gastroparesis. objectives: because disturbances of gastric emptying are a serious complication in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects with regard to the maintenance of good metabolic control, we wanted to assess the effectiveness of motilin as a potential treatment for gastric emptying disturbances. research design and methods: the intestinal hormone motilin has been shown to accelerate gastric emptying in healthy subjects. therefore, we examined the effect of intravenous motilin on gastric emptying of a 99mtc colloid-labeled semisolid test meal in 9 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic gastroparesis. all patients had a significantly delayed gastric emptying rate compared with a group of 11 healthy control subjects. results: during the infusion of motilin, gastric emptying was accelerated, and it was no longer significantly different from control values. conclusions: these data demonstrate that motilin and related compounds such as erythromycin derivatives could be useful for the treatment of disturbed gastric emptying in diabetic subjects.
doppler assessment of pulmonary hypertension induced by hypoxic breathing in subjects susceptible to high altitude pulmonary edema. to verify the abnormal pulmonary vascular response implicated in the pathogenesis of high altitude pulmonary edema (hape), we examined the hemodynamic responses to hypoxia in hape-susceptible subjects (hape-s) by means of both right heart catheterization and pulsed doppler echocardiography. the hape-s were seven men and one woman with a history of hape. six healthy volunteers who had repeated experiences of mountain climbing without any history of altitude-related problems served as control subjects. the hape-s showed much greater increase in pulmonary vascular resistance (pvr) than did the control subjects, resulting in a much higher level of pulmonary arterial pressure (ppa) under acute hypoxia both of 15% o2 and 10% o2. we then evaluated the usefulness of pulsed doppler echocardiography in the prediction of pulmonary hypertension. acceleration time (act) and right ventricular ejection time (rvet) were measured from the flow velocity pattern in the right ventricular outflow tract. the ratio of act to rvet was correlated to invasively determined mean ppa (ppa) and pvr. the results were as follows: (1) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.0047 (ppa), r = -0.93, see = 0.017, p less than 0.001 (hape-s); (2) act/rvet = 0.55 to 0.0055 (ppa), r = -0.70, see = 0.030, p less than 0.001 (hape-s); (4) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.00077 (pvr), r = -0.91, see = 0.016, p less than 0.001 (control subjects). we conclude that hape-s have a constitutional abnormality in the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxia, which is a possible causative factor of hape, and that pulsed doppler echocardiography may be supportive to assess the pulmonary vascular pressor response in the hape-s.
paradoxical embolism: an underestimated entity. a plea for comprehensive work-up. forty-one cases of arterial embolism were reviewed. the work-up included m + 2d echocardiography in 29 patients (71%), arteriography in 22 (54%), both echocardiography and arteriography in 19 (46%), and abdominal aortic ultrasound in 18 (43%). the sources of emboli were probable cardiac (8 = 20%)--mural cardiac thrombus detected by echocardiogram; possible cardiac (12 = 29%)--arrhythmias or other cardiac pathology detected without mural thrombus; probable arterio-arterial (7 = 17%)--proximal arterial thrombus detected; probable paradoxical embolism (2 = 5%)--fulfills the johnson criteria with cardiac defect and right-to-left shunt detected by contrast echo in one patient and cardiac catheterization in the other; possible paradoxical embolism (3 = 7%)--meets two of three johnson criteria without evidence of other source; and unknown source (9 = 22%)--conventional work-up negative or incomplete. five of nine patients (56%) less than 50 years old had probable or possible paradoxical embolism, while in two patients (22%), the origin was unknown. conclusion: (1) a significant proportion of patients with an arterial embolus are discharged with the source of emboli unknown, (2) paradoxical embolism must be considered and contrast saline or transesophageal echocardiogram should be done in patients under 50 years old.
dynamic changes in left ventricular outflow tract flow velocities after amyl nitrite inhalation in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. doppler echocardiography was performed in 21 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc), in nine patients with no evidence of left ventricular (lv) hypertrophy by two-dimensional echocardiography, and in five patients with systemic hypertension and concentric lv hypertrophy. the lv outflow tract (lvot) peak velocity was recorded by continuous wave doppler technique at rest and after amyl nitrite inhalation. the lvot pressure gradient was calculated by the modified bernoulli equation. a significant increase in heart rate and a drop in systolic blood pressure were observed in all patients after amyl nitrite inhalation; no adverse effects were encountered. the peak lvot velocity and pressure gradient increased significantly after provocation in all patients, but the increase was much more pronounced in patients with hc (peak lvot velocity increased from 2.2 +/- 0.8 to 4.3 +/- 1.0 m/sec and peak gradient increased from 22 +/- 17 to 78 +/- 36 mm hg). the doppler spectral signal in patients with hc demonstrated a characteristic contour, with peak velocity occurring in late systole. however, the observed increase in lvot peak velocity was not statistically different between treated (with beta-blockers and calcium blockers) and untreated patients with hc. we conclude that lvot peak velocity and pressure gradients in patients with hc can be readily assessed by doppler echocardiography both at rest and after amyl nitrite inhalation. the dynamic changes in lvot velocity induced by this provocation have certain characteristic features in obstructive hc but appear to be independent of the medical regimen used, at least in the dosages tested in our study.
development of antibodies to thrombin and factor v with recurrent bleeding in a patient exposed to topical bovine thrombin. a 65 year old patient who was exposed to topical bovine thrombin during cardiac surgery developed markedly prolonged clotting times and a severe bleeding diathesis. mixing studies with normal plasma failed to correct the clotting times. platelet transfusions, immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies were ineffective, but plasmapheresis was effective in decreasing clotting times and in the resolution of clinical bleeding events. the patient's purified igg reacted with bovine thrombin by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). however, the igg reacted minimally with human thrombin. in view of the severe bleeding, a coexisting inhibitor was sought. the patient's factor v activity was 1% of normal and was not corrected by mixing with normal plasma, demonstrating the presence of an inhibitor against factor v. the patient's igg reacted with both bovine and human factor v. immunoblotting localized the site of antibody binding to the light chain of activated bovine factor v. detectable amounts of bovine factor v were found in commercial bovine thrombin preparations by elisa. the data suggest that patients exposed to topical bovine thrombin may develop antibodies to thrombin and factor v. anti-thrombin antibodies may mask coexisting factor v inhibitors responsible for clinical bleeding.
the sulphated glycosaminoglycan levels in synovial fluid aspirates in patients with acute and chronic joint disease. proteoglycan levels were measured in a series of synovial fluid samples from patients with acute and chronic joint diseases using a modified chemical dye binding method. levels found in 50 miscellaneous inflammatory arthritis fluids (mean = 173.2 +/- 90.9 micrograms/ml) were higher than found in either 50 with rheumatoid arthritis (96.3 +/- 31.3 micrograms/ml) or 50 with osteoarthritis (83.8 +/- 27.3 micrograms/ml). for comparison, proteoglycan levels were measured in 15 cadaver synovial fluids (98.9 +/- 44.2 micrograms/ml) and 12 synovial fluids from patients with sports injury (163.7 +/- 79.4 micrograms/ml). patients were recruited into a trial where synovial fluid was aspirated as often as possible over a 6-month period during which the patients were followed using a number of well proven clinical parameters. no correlation was found between the degree of joint destruction as measured by x-ray damage and the concentration or total amount of proteoglycan in the synovial fluid. in addition, there was no correlation between the level or total amount of proteoglycan and any clinical parameter of disease activity.
treatment with deferoxamine during ischemia improves functional and metabolic recovery and reduces reperfusion-induced oxygen radical generation in rabbit hearts background. iron may play a central role in oxygen radical generation during myocardial ischemia and after reperfusion. because conditions during ischemia may also liberate iron, we hypothesized that administration of the iron chelator deferoxamine during ischemia would result in improved functional and metabolic recovery after postischemic reperfusion. methods and results. isolated, perfused rabbit hearts were studied by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. the hearts received one of three treatments: deferoxamine at the onset of 30 minutes of global ischemia (n = 9), deferoxamine as a bolus followed by a continuous 15-minute infusion begun at reflow (n = 9), or standard perfusate (n = 7). hearts treated with deferoxamine during ischemia showed better recovery of developed pressure than did control hearts (63.2 +/- 7.5% versus 41.2 +/- 2.9% of baseline) (p = 0.02) and better recovery of myocardial phosphocreatine content (92.4 +/- 10.3% versus 68.2 +/- 4.5% of baseline, p less than 0.05). these functional and metabolic benefits were comparable to those obtained with deferoxamine treatment during early reperfusion. in 15 additional hearts, intraischemic treatment with deferoxamine resulted in no reduction in oxygen radical concentrations as measured on frozen tissue by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy at end ischemia, but the treatment eliminated the reperfusion-induced increase of free radical generation observed in control hearts (2.9 +/- 0.01 versus 7.0 +/- 0.07 microm, p less than 0.001). the magnitude of reduction was similar to that when deferoxamine was given at the onset of reflow (2.4 +/- 0.02 microm, p less than 0.001 versus control). conclusions. these results demonstrate improved functional and metabolic recovery of myocardium treated with deferoxamine during ischemia, accompanied by a reduction in reperfusion-induced oxygen free-radical generation to the same degree as reflow treatment, confirming the importance of iron in the pathogenesis of myocardial reperfusion injury.
persistent carcinoma in situ of the testis after chemotherapy for advanced testicular germ cell tumours. the chemosensitivity of testicular carcinoma in situ (cis) was analysed in 25 testes excised 10 weeks to 4.5 years following platinum-based chemotherapy. cis was present in 8 of the 23 evaluable cases (35%), in 5 of which the lesion coexisted with invasive germ cell tumour. it is concluded that cis may persist or recur after chemotherapy. this has implications for occult presentation of metastatic germ cell tumours and also for the management of the contralateral testis in patients with testicular germ cell tumours.
nerve growth factor stimulates protein tyrosine phosphorylation in pc-12 pheochromocytoma cells. the cellular actions of nerve growth factor (ngf) and epidermal growth factor (egf) may be mediated by changes in protein phosphorylation. the tyrosine phosphorylation of two predominant proteins of molecular mass 40 and 42 kda is seen in pc-12 cells treated with ngf or egf, correlating with activation of a previously identified serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates microtubule-associated protein (map). stimulation of phosphoprotein (pp) 40 and 42 phosphorylation and map kinase activity by ngf but not egf is selectively attenuated by staurosporine and k-252a. moreover, the time courses of pp40/42 phosphorylation and map kinase activation produced by ngf or egf are identical. chromatography of lysates from growth factor-treated cells on ion-exchange or hydrophobic-interaction hplc resolves map kinase into two peaks, neither of which precisely coelutes with pp40 or pp42. one of these peaks (ii) exhibits no detectable phosphotyrosine. the other peak (i) has some overlap with pp40. however, the activity residing in both peaks is almost completely inhibited after treatment with alkaline phosphatase, suggesting that, at least, serine/threonine phosphorylation is required for the activity of these enzymes. these data indicate that while tyrosine phosphorylation appears to be a critical early event in ngf action, the role of this modification in activation of map kinases remains unclear.
multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses. the purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called exserohilum rostratum. exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis, a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi. this class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious, progressive pansinusitis. to our knowledge, this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to e rostratum. the diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens. a craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles. aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described.
a cost-minimization study of cancer patients requiring a narcotic infusion in hospital and at home. we conducted a retrospective, non-randomized, cost-minimization study, from the perspective of the ministry of health, to compare the cost of managing cancer patients who required narcotic infusions, in hospital and at home. our medical costs averaged $369.72 per inpatient day and $150.24 per outpatient day (saving $219.48 per diem, 1988 canadian dollars), while narcotic costs were the same for any given patient in both settings. sensitivity analysis showed that no reasonable changes in the quantity and cost of services reduced our savings by more than 50%. during incremental analysis, savings increased as more outpatient days were managed by our centre, from $0.00 for 318 days, to more than $500,000 for over 2000 days per annum. as this program has been extremely cost effective and preferred by our patients, other hospitals and central funding agencies might consider establishing a regional outpatient narcotic infusion program to reduce their costs.
treatment of hepatitis b virus-associated membranous nephropathy with adenine arabinoside and thymic extract. previously we found that corticosteroid treatment in the hepatitis b virus (hbv)-associated membranous nephropathy (hbvmn) was not associated with a favorable outcome. to distinguish the differences of the hbv dna in macrophage, t and b cells among hbvmn patients with or without corticosteroid treatment, serial studies at different time points were investigated. hbv dna appeared as an "episomal" molecule as with 3.2 kb in macrophage, t and b cells. this molecule disappeared after 12 months among hbvmn patients without corticosteroid treatment. hbv dna, by contrast, appeared as episomal form even three years later in t cells, with frequent proteinuria among hbvmn patients with corticosteroid treatment. this finding indicates that the use of corticosteroids leads to a potential risk of enhancing hbv viral replication in t cells. we studied 24 hbvmn patients who had previously received corticosteroid treatment and had persistent proteinuria, who were administered combination therapy with adenine arabinoside for two weeks and thymic extract (thymostimulin) for six months to decrease urine protein loss and obtain seroconversion. these 24 patients had heavy (22 of 24, 91.6%) or mild (2 of 24, 8.4%) proteinuria prior to adenine arabinoside and thymostimulin treatment. all 24 patients demonstrated hbv dna in mononuclear cells and simultaneously exhibited sera positive with hbsag and hbeag. in contrast, after treatment only one case (4.2%) had heavy and two cases (8.4%) mild proteinuria; hbv dna was demonstrated in macrophage (4 of 24, 16.7%), t cells (9 of 24, 37.5%), and b cells (6 of 24, 25%) as well as serum (24 of 24, 100%) prior to treatment.
the effect of spine fusion on respiratory function in duchenne muscular dystrophy. serial measures of respiratory function were made in 17 patients with duchenne muscular dystrophy who underwent segmental spine fusion and in 22 patients who did not. no significant differences were observed between the 2 groups (operated vs. nonoperated) in terms of declining respiratory function. nonetheless, all operated patients reported either improved sitting comfort, appearance, or both. thus, our results suggest that there are distinct benefits from segmental spine fusion; however, there was no salutary effect upon respiratory function either in the short term or after up to 5 years follow-up.
prospective randomized multicenter comparison of in situ and reversed vein infrapopliteal bypasses. we have performed a prospective, randomized, multicenter study to compare in situ and reversed vein grafts for long limb salvage bypasses from the proximal thigh to an infrapopliteal artery. three hundred eighty-four patients required an infrapopliteal bypass for critical lower extremity ischemia. of these, 259 were excluded because a short vein bypass was performed or because the vein was considered inadequate. the remaining 125 patients had a randomized vein bypass, 63 reversed, 62 in situ. the two groups were similar with regard to risk factors, indications, graft dimensions, and outflow. secondary patency at 30 months was similar for both techniques: reversed 67% +/- 9% (+/- se); in situ 69% +/- 8%. for veins less than or equal to 3.0 mm in minimum distended diameter 24-month patency rates were 61% +/- 22% for 12 in situ veins and 37% +/- 29% for 10 reversed veins (p greater than 0.05). angiographic evaluation of failing grafts revealed lesions similar in type and frequency in both types of grafts. these included focal (in situ, n = 4; reversed, n = 7) and diffuse vein hyperplasia (in situ, n = 2; reversed, n = 1), and inflow and outflow stenoses (in situ, n = 4; reversed, n = 3). the incidence of wound complications and the mortality rate were similar for the two groups. these data show no significant difference in overall patency rates for the two types of vein grafts at 2 1/2 years.
genetic flanking markers refine diagnostic criteria and provide insights into the genetics of von hippel lindau disease. von hippel lindau disease (vhl) is a hereditary syndrome, associated with tumors and cysts in multiple organ systems, whose expression and age of onset are highly variable. the availability of a genetic test for the early and reliable detection of individuals carrying the defective gene would be beneficial for vhl patients and their relatives, since many of the manifestations of vhl can be successfully treated if detected in their early stages, while the complications of undetected disease can be devastating. we have previously shown that the vhl gene maps to chromosome 3p. to provide genetic markers for the development of a reliable diagnostic test, and to further narrow and eventually clone the vhl defect, we have generated dna markers for chromosome 3p. with these markers, we have performed a multipoint genetic linkage analysis in 28 vhl pedigrees, comprising 470 individuals, 164 of whom were affected with vhl. here we report the identification of tightly linked markers, including flanking markers that bracket the vhl gene to a small region on chromosome 3p25-p26. this finding has several major implications. while visceral cysts of the kidney, pancreas, and epididymis are commonly found in vhl and are considered diagnostic criteria for this disorder, they also occur in the general population. the presence of cysts, unaccompanied by other more typical lesions such as retinal and cerebellar hemangioblastoma, may therefore represent a major diagnostic problem, leading to errors in the assessment of disease status. the application of flanking markers for the vhl gene for presymptomatic diagnostic testing confirms that epididymal cysts are indeed not suitable as a diagnostic criterion in this disorder. pheochromocytomas occur nonuniformly in vhl families and may also be associated with other hereditary tumor syndromes; our genetic studies imply that the phenotype in vhl families with and without pheochromocytomas is caused by defects within the same gene. the absence or presence of this tumor type is therefore due to the pleiotropic expression of a single gene rather than to the existence of several different genes for vhl. the region on chromosome 3p13-p14 known to contain several chromosomal translocation breakpoints in families with "pure familial renal cell carcinoma" is quite proximal to the vhl locus in 3p25-p26 we have identified. chromosome 3p may therefore contain two loci for renal cell carcinoma: one gene (or genes) in 3p13-p14 and the vhl gene in 3p25-p26, whose aberration is also associated with other typical manifestations of vhl.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis. cholangiocarcinoma is more likely to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. our aims were to describe the clinical presentation, course, and management of patients afflicted with both cholangiocarcinoma and primary sclerosing cholangitis and to estimate the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. a retrospective analysis was conducted of 30 patients with both primary sclerosing cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma managed at our institution during an 8-year period. development of cholangiocarcinoma was heralded by rapid clinical deterioration with jaundice, weight loss, and abdominal discomfort. cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis often was detected at an advanced tumor stage, which precluded effective therapy, and overall median survival was 5 months. earlier recognition and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma in such patients will be necessary to increase survival rates. seventy patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were followed prospectively in a clinical trial of medical therapy for an average of 30 months. twelve patients died and five were found at autopsy to have cholangiocarcinoma. the potential for cholangiocarcinoma to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis may indicate that liver transplantation should be considered earlier in the course of the disease.
fatal pulmonary venoocclusive disease secondary to a generalized venulopathy: a new syndrome presenting with facial swelling and pericardial tamponade. we describe a patient who developed fatal pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to diffuse venulitis. this otherwise healthy young woman first presented with generalized venulopathy, with chemosis, facial swelling, pleural effusions, and pericardial tamponade. the symptoms partially responded to steroid therapy, but over a 2-year course, a rapidly progressive and fatal venoocclusive disease developed. no other primary condition was diagnosed, and at autopsy, the patient had striking venulitis throughout, including the pulmonary bed. we believe that this is a unique case of pulmonary hypertension resulting from a generalized venulopathy.
the effect of epilepsy or diabetes mellitus on the risk of automobile accidents background. previous studies of possible associations between chronic medical conditions and traffic safety have been inconsistent and subject to bias because of the incomplete identification of affected persons. recent advances in the diagnosis and management of epilepsy and diabetes mellitus have improved the control of these disorders and suggest a need to reexamine the risk of traffic mishaps among patients with these conditions. methods. we conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of 30,420 subjects 16 to 90 years of age, with and without epilepsy or diabetes mellitus. subjects included all the licensed drivers in seven contiguous zip code areas in which the marshfield clinic and st. joseph's hospital, marshfield, wisconsin, are the primary sources of medical care. standardized rates of moving violations and accidents over a four-year period (1985 through 1988) were compared in affected and unaffected cohorts. results. standardized mishap ratios for subjects with diabetes were 1.14 for all moving violations (p = 0.23) and 1.32 for accidents (p = 0.01); for subjects with epilepsy the ratios were 1.13 for moving violations (p = 0.26) and 1.33 for accidents (p = 0.04). conclusions. we conclude that drivers with epilepsy or diabetes mellitus have slightly increased risks of traffic accidents as compared with unaffected persons. the increases in risk observed in our study were generally smaller than those in previous studies, and we believe they are not great enough to warrant further restrictions on driving privileges.
prospective study of alcohol intake and large bowel cancer. the alcohol intake of a cohort of japanese men in hawaii is directly and significantly related to the risk of developing rectal cancer, whether assessed on the basis of amount consumed or as a percent of total calories. wine and whiskey are directly related to rectal cancer, but beer is the only alcoholic beverage that displays a statistically significant dose-response (p = 0.008). colon cancer risk also is related directly to alcohol intake, but the association is statistically significant only when measured as a percent of energy intake. this suggests that alcohol might displace cancer inhibitors from the diet. calcium, vitamin c, and dietary fiber are inversely related to colon cancer risk in this cohort, and each of these micronutrients displays statistically significant negative correlation with alcohol intake. a possible positive association between alcohol and lung cancer was ruled out after adjusting for cigarette smoking. cancers of the prostate and stomach were unrelated to alcohol intake, but the risk of acquiring cancer at all other sites combined was strongly related to alcohol intake.
methodology of head-up tilt testing in patients with unexplained syncope prolonged 60 degree head-up tilt has been shown to be valuable in the investigation of unexplained syncope, diagnosing neurally mediated bradycardia/hypotension or malignant vasovagal syndrome. to evaluate the methodology of tilt testing, the following were examined: reproducibility of results, tilt duration, angle of tilt, method of tilt support and effect of age in patients and control subjects. seventy-one patients with recurrent unexplained syncope underwent 60 min of 60 degree tilt; 53 (75%) had an abnormal test with vasovagal syncope at 24 +/- 10 min (mean +/- sd). tilting to 60 degrees resulted in an abnormal test in only 2 (7%) of 27 control subjects without cardiovascular symptoms (p less than 0.001); and 5 (15%) of 34 patients with syncope and documented conduction tissue disease (p less than 0.001). of 15 youthful fainters, 3 (20%) had vasovagal reactions as did 1 (8%) of 12 asymptomatic youthful control subjects. these 12 control subjects also underwent tilting with a saddle support and 7 (67%) had vasovagal reactions. it is concluded that the duration of tilting at 60 degrees should be 45 min (mean time to syncope +2 x sd in the 53 patients with abnormal results). twenty percent of patients with an abnormal tilt test may not demonstrate syncope with repeat tilting. saddle tilt testing in unexplained syncope may result in a loss of specificity. tilting at less than 60 degrees results in a loss of sensitivity. head-up tilt may be less useful in youthful subjects with vasovagal syncope than in other subjects.
shear stress induces not only platelet aggregation but also platelet-tumor cell interaction. to investigate the interaction between platelets and tumor cells under well-defined flow conditions, the effect of tumor cells on platelet aggregation induced by shear stress was studied using a cone and plate viscometer adapted for measuring transmitted light intensity. aggregation was markedly enhanced by hmv-1 cells in a cell number-dependent fashion under shear stress of 12 dyne/cm2. enhancement was not observed at a high shear stress of 108 dyne/cm2. a monoclonal antibody against gpiib/iiia, 7e3 completely abolished enhancement of aggregation by hmv-1. apyrase had similar inhibitory effects. scanning electronmicroscopy showed that direct contacts of platelets with hmv-1 cells could be demonstrated when platelet-platelet interaction was inhibited by 7e3 or apyrase. these results may indicate that, at a shear stress of 12 dyne/cm2, direct contacts of platelets and hmv-1 cells may trigger enhancement of platelet aggregation.
sensitivity for detecting fibrillation potentials: a comparison between concentric and monopolar needle electrodes. the sensitivity of monopolar and concentric electrodes for detecting fibrillation potentials (fp) has never been formally compared. we studied 35 muscles with fp, sampling 20 sites each with concentric and monopolar needles. the concentric needle identified 0.88 +/- 3.44 (mean +/- standard deviation) more sites with spontaneous activity. although statistically significant (wilcoxon signed rank test p less than .03), this difference in sensitivity did not appreciably affect diagnostic interpretation. subjects described the concentric needles as more painful. needle insertions in 25 other muscles demonstrated that needle movement generated the majority of fp. we suggest that the increased tissue injury caused by concentric needles may account for both their increased sensitivity and discomfort.
ampullary carcinoma in patients under 50 years of age with a poor prognosis. clinicopathologic features of 145 japanese patients with ampullary carcinoma were compared among three age groups. the 145 patients were divided into three groups by the patient's age at the time of operation; there were 24 patients in group i (younger) aged less than or equal to 50 years, 99 in group ii (ordinary) aged 51-69, and 22 in group iii (elderly) aged greater than or equal to 70. the three groups showed no significant difference in sex, icterus, duration of icterus, size of the tumor, year of operation, macroscopic type, histopathologic type, tumor margin, lymphatic permeation, venous invasion, or pancreatic invasion. the survival curve of group i was worse than those of groups ii and iii. multivariate regression analysis using 11 prognostic variables failed to reveal that the age of the patient at the time of operation was an independent factor. the younger patients aged less than or equal to 50 fared worse than the elderly patients aged greater than or equal to 70, because the group i tumors included a significantly greater number of advanced ampullary carcinoma with more frequent perineural invasion than did the group iii tumors.
diltiazem therapy for symptoms associated with nutcracker esophagus. a randomized double-blind, cross-over prospective trial in 22 patients was designed to evaluate possible effect of an oral calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, on symptoms of chest pain and/or dysphagia in patients with nutcracker esophagus. we studied 22 consecutive patients referred to an esophageal diagnostic center for evaluation of noncardiac chest pain or dysphagia having high amplitude esophageal contractions, 14 of whom completed the study. diltiazem (60-90 mg qid) was compared with placebo, each being administered for 8 wk. patients were evaluated with esophageal motility pre- and posttreatment periods and with regular symptom assessment throughout each 8-wk treatment. active diltiazem therapy resulted in significantly lower (p less than 0.05) mean distal esophageal peristaltic pressure (128 +/- 20 mm hg; +/- se) than placebo (158 +/- 16 mm hg). mean chest pains scores were significantly (p less than 0.05) lower with diltiazem therapy than with placebo. only nine of the 14 patients fulfilled presently acceptable criteria for diagnosing nutcracker esophagus, and the diltiazem effect was similar, although not significant, because of the smaller sample. conclusions: in this preliminary study involving 14 patients, the oral calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, appeared to improve noncardiac chest pain associated with strong esophageal contraction, the nutcracker esophagus. these improved symptoms were associated with significant decreases in contraction pressure.
quantitative assessment of cerebral blood volume by single-photon emission computed tomography. we implemented a technique for measuring regional cerebral blood volume using single-photon emission computed tomography and in vivo technetium-99m-labeled red blood cells and then evaluated it in nine normal human volunteers (controls) and seven patients with bilateral occlusion or severe stenosis of the internal carotid artery. we also measured regional cerebral blood flow using single-photon emission computed tomography and intravenous xenon-133 in the same subjects. we studied regional cerebral blood flow, regional cerebral blood volume, and their ratio before and after the intravenous injection of 1 g acetazolamide. mean +/- sd baseline regional cerebral blood volume was higher in the patients than in the controls (4.1 +/- 0.6 versus 3.2 +/- 0.3 ml/100 g, p less than 0.01), and mean +/- sd baseline regional cerebral blood flow was lower in the patients than in the controls (40.5 +/- 11 versus 55.6 +/- 11 ml/100 g/min, p less than 0.05). acetazolamide induced similar mean +/- sd increases in regional cerebral blood volume in both the controls and the patients (0.3 +/- 0.1 and 0.3 +/- 0.2 ml/100 g), while the mean +/- sd regional cerebral blood flow reactivity was significantly less in the patients than in the controls (12.6 +/- 7.6 versus 24.5 +/- 9.6 ml/100 g/min, p less than 0.05). our study shows that single-photon emission computed tomography can provide quantitative estimates of both regional cerebral blood volume and regional cerebral blood flow in humans.
comparison of postmortem magnetic resonance imaging and neuropathologic findings in the cerebral white matter. two types of high-signal intensity abnormalities are frequently found bilaterally in the cerebral white matter of brains of elderly patients on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans. one is located in the immediate periventricular region; the other, in the deep subcortical white matter (centrum semiovale). the diagnostic implications of this second type continue to be uncertain. to determine the neuropathologic correlates of these lesions, the brains from seven elderly patients were fixed in buffered formaldehyde solution, subjected to mri scanning, and examined neuropathologically. variable degrees of bilateral periventricular (subependymal) sharply defined areas of high-signal intensity were found in all the brains, and the larger of these showed corresponding areas of myelin pallor with gliosis and dilated perivascular spaces. discrete bilateral patches of high-signal intensity were found in the centrum semiovale in five patients. myelin and axon stains showed varying degrees of diffuse white matter pallor in many areas examined, both with and without these areas of high-signal intensity on mri scans. neither the myelin nor the axon stains showed discrete white matter abnormalities that corresponded to the mri findings. we believe that these changes, so commonly found on mri scans in the elderly, reflect actual changes in the white matter but that their nature and clinical significance need to be elucidated.
orthostatic hypotension after spinal cord injury: treatment with fludrocortisone and ergotamine. we report a case of a 28-year-old woman with c5 quadriplegia, unresponsive to conservative treatment for orthostatic hypotension. ergotamine, daily combined with fludrocortisone, successfully prevented symptomatic hypotension. in this report, neural, renal, and hormonal blood pressure regulatory mechanisms are described. experiences obtained from this case and the existing literature suggest that (1) in persons with quadriplegia, plasma catecholamine levels show little increase with sitting, indicating an inability to activate baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes, (2) elevated plasma aldosterone and renin levels indicate a renal compensatory response to decreased renal perfusion secondary to low plasma volume and/or chronic hypotension, and (3) the net effect of ergotamine and fludrocortisone is probably a combination of plasma volume expansion and direct peripheral vasoconstriction.
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia (pseudomonas maltophilia) in patients with cancer. from december 1985 to may 1986, xanthomonas maltophilia (formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time. the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study. twelve (71%) of the 17 infected and nine (50%) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy. eleven of 17 patients (three of seven with septicemia, three of five with pneumonia, three with urinary tract infection, and two with wound infection) responded to antimicrobial therapy. microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit. x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients, especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy.
vascular hypertrophy, renin and blood pressure in the young spontaneously hypertensive rat. 1. cardiovascular reactivity, blood vessel morphology, blood pressure and the activity of the renin-angiotensin system were determined in the 3-week-old spontaneously hypertensive (shr), wistar-kyoto (wky) and outbred wistar (wis) rat. 2. in an isolated perfused mesenteric artery preparation the shr had a significantly increased maximum response to kcl and noradrenaline (p less than 0.02) compared with the wky. using a myograph, vascular structure was measured over a range of resistance arteries and showed a significant correlation between lumen diameter and both media cross-sectional area and thickness, with the regression line for the shr shifted upwards indicating both increased media area and thickness. this was associated with a slight, but significant, narrowing of the lumen (p less than 0.01) and an increased media/lumen ratio (0.049 +/- 0.01, 0.034 +/- 0.007, 0.036 +/- 0.008 for shr, wky and wis, respectively, means +/- sd p less than 0.001). the shr had a greater heart/body weight ratio than either the wky or the wis (p less than 0.001). 3. both mesenteric artery and membrane protein content were higher in the shr, indicating an increase in cell size or number. 4. plasma renin activity (means +/- sd) was lower in the shr (1.0 +/- 0.7 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1) than in the wky (2.2 +/- 1.2 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1, p less than 0.001) but not different from that in the wis (1.2 +/- 0.8 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1). mesenteric artery vascular renin concentration was also lower in the shr (p = 0.06).
the mechanism of spastic muscle hypertonus. variation in reflex gain over the time course of spasticity. the electromyographic (emg) response of the initially passive biceps brachii muscle to imposed extension applied at the elbow was studied in 19 hemiparetic and 12 normal subjects. in relaxed normal subjects, the biceps muscle was found to respond only at displacement velocities above 175 deg/s, with a single early burst of activity in the biceps emg. in contrast, the hemiparetic subjects, in addition to the early emg activity, also showed considerable late activity, which persisted even with stretch velocities as low as 35 deg/s. this late activity is a stretch reflex, present in fully plegic arms. it was seen in all spastic subjects in whom the tone of the biceps had been clinically assessed to be raised, but was never observed in subjects with normal muscle tone. the mean level of this emg response was highly correlated with displacement velocity and its duration to the duration of the applied displacement. it is suggested that this reflex emg activity is the major factor in the genesis of spastic hypertonus in the arm and that it arises not from a reduction in the threshold of the stretch reflexes of the muscle, but from a pathological increase in stretch reflex gain. it is further shown that this activity is at a high level between the first and third months after the onset of spasticity and that the reflex gain is significantly reduced when spasticity is established for a year or more. it is concluded that, while changes in passive mechanical properties may play a role when spasticity has been established for more than a year, the major cause of spastic muscle hypertonus is a pathological increase in stretch reflex activity.
the cardiovascular effects of cocaine. cocaine use and abuse continue to overwhelm urban economic, social, and health care systems. patients frequently present to the emergency department with life-threatening manifestations of cocaine use, including trauma, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, psychomotor agitation, and cardiovascular collapse. adequate treatment of the cocaine-intoxicated patient requires a critical understanding of the risk-to-benefit ratios for pharmacologic, toxicologic, and surgical or obstetric interventions. the pharmacologic and physiologic bases for the vascular manifestations of cocaine toxicity and experimental evidence for treatment strategies are reviewed.
breakdown of gastric mucus in presence of helicobacter pylori. the potential of helicobacter pylori to degrade gastric mucus was examined. colonies of h pylori cultured from antral mucosal biopsy specimens of patients with non-autoimmune gastritis were washed with sterile saline, passed through a sterilisation filter, and the filtrate examined for urease, protease, and mucolytic activity. the filtrate failed to hydrolyse bovine serum albumin, or to degrade stable mucus glycoprotein structures of high particle weight that had been separated from human gastric mucus on sepharose 2b. the high particle weight mucus glycoprotein was, however, extensively degraded when incubated with h pylori filtrate (which possessed urease activity) in the presence of 2 m urea, to release fragments of mr approximately 2 x 10(6). the high particle weight mucus glycoprotein was also broken down to a comparable extent when incubated with jack bean urease in the presence of 2 m urea, or 1 m ammonium carbonate, or 40 mm carbonate-bicarbonate buffer (ph 8.7), but not when treated with 4 m urea alone, or jack bean urease alone. these results indicate that the loss of high particle weight mucus glycoprotein in gastric mucus from patients with gastritis and gastric ulcers is unlikely to be due to the mucolytic action of an extra-cellular protease produced by h pylori, but it may result from the destabilising effects of a carbonate-bicarbonate buffer, generated at the mucosal surface when h pylori urease hydrolyses transuded plasma urea.
factors related to treatment resistance in hypertension. hypertension which is resistant to treatment carries a relatively bad prognosis. factors associated with treatment resistance were examined in a case-control study in a hospital hypertension clinic. patients with resistant hypertension had more severe hypertension and more frequently had evidence of end-organ damage on presentation to the clinic. the prevalence of accelerated phase hypertension, renovascular disease and impaired renal function was also higher in these patients. cigarette smoking, and the combination of cigarette smoking and heavy caffeine use, were greater in patients with resistant hypertension. resistant hypertension did not appear to be associated with older age, obesity, regular alcohol use, various psychological factors or non-compliance. these findings support an aggressive investigation policy in resistant hypertension, and underline the harmful effects of cigarette smoking to hypertensive subjects.
hemodynamic effects of lobar pulmonary artery occlusion in a porcine sepsis model. we induced severe pulmonary hypertension and acute lung injury in 6 pigs by pseudomonas aeruginosa infusion. we studied the effect of pulmonary artery catheter inflation of a pulmonary artery catheter balloon in the left lower lobar pulmonary artery was accompanied by a significant (p less than 0.05, paired t test) increase in pulmonary artery pressure, a decrease in left atrial pressure, a decrease in cardiac output, and a decrease in mean arterial pressure. no significant changes occurred when the catheter was advanced into the wedged position without balloon inflation. balloon inflation had no significant effect on these variables before bacterial infusion. we conclude that with sufficiently severe pulmonary hypertension in association with diffuse lung injury, lobar pulmonary artery occlusion may cause alterations in cardiac output and left atrial pressure. this may confuse interpretation of pulmonary artery catheter measurements.
acute abdominal pain in the elderly. study objectives: to determine the incidences of both specific diagnosis and surgical diseases in patients more than 65 years old who present to the emergency department with nontraumatic abdominal pain of less than one week's duration, and to determine the ed staff's ability to diagnose and triage elderly patients with acute abdominal pain. design: a 12-month retrospective review of all elderly patients who presented to the ed with acute, nontraumatic abdominal pain. setting: a regional trauma center serving a predominately rural population in the midwest. the ed has 55,000 patient visits yearly. measurements and main results: of the 127 patients enrolled, 30 (24%) had no specific diagnosis made in the ed. biliary tract disease (12%) and small bowel obstruction (12%) were the two most common specific diagnoses. overall, 53 patients (42%) required surgery, usually during the initial hospitalization. in four cases, the postoperative diagnosis differed significantly from the ed diagnosis. of the 74 patients (58%) who did not undergo surgery, 51 had follow-up information available. in 14 patients, the follow-up diagnosis differed from the original diagnosis, but most of these changes did not appreciably alter the treatment and outcome. conclusions: the incidence of surgical disease is high in elderly patients with acute abdominal pain, and ed staff are able to diagnose and triage these patients accurately.
renal carcinoma in a solitary kidney. we studied the clinical and pathological features of 26 patients with renal carcinoma of a solitary kidney, including 6 treated at this hospital. four patients had a contracted kidney and 22 had previously undergone nephrectomy. partial nephrectomy was performed in 16 patients, enucleation of the tumour in 5 and radical nephrectomy in 5 because of the size of the tumour. ex vivo surgery was carried out in 4 patients. the duration of ischaemia ranged from 15 to 365 min but was longer in those who underwent ex vivo surgery (149 to 365 min). of the 21 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy or enucleation, the serum creatinine level increased (greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl) post-operatively in 16 patients, of whom 9 required temporary haemodialysis. no recurrence has been noted in those who underwent partial nephrectomy, but 1 patient who underwent enucleation of the tumour developed a solitary pancreatic metastasis 2 years 6 months after surgery and was treated by a partial pancreatectomy. kidney-preserving surgical procedures are considered to improve the quality of life, but careful follow-up is necessary.
pancreaticobiliary ductal union. the main pancreatic duct and the common bile duct open into the second part of the duodenum alone or after joining as a common channel. a common channel of greater than 15 mm (an anomalous pancreaticobiliary duct) is associated with congenital cystic dilatation of the common bile duct and carcinoma of the gall bladder. even a long common channel (greater than or equal to 8 mm) is associated with a higher frequency of carcinoma of the gall bladder. gall stones smaller than the common channel and a long common channel predispose to gall stone induced acute pancreatitis. separate openings for the two ductal systems predisposes to development of gall stones and alcohol induced chronic pancreatitis. the role of ductal union has also been investigated in primary sclerosing cholangitis and biliary atresia.
clinical efficacy of ptca and identification of restenosis: evaluation by serial body surface potential mapping. we used serial body surface potential mapping (bspm) with the departure map technique to evaluate the clinical efficacy of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) in various pathophysiologic stages of coronary artery disease, and to detect restenosis. the bspm was performed prior to, 1 week after, and 1 month after ptca. a follow-up coronary angiography was performed 3 to 6 months after ptca, and bspm was also performed at the same time. the results of bspm were compared with those of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (tl-201 spect) and radionuclide ventriculography. after ptca, bspm showed a significant reduction in the departure area, the tl-201 spect also showed a significant reduction in the extent and severity scores, and the left ventricular ejection fraction improved significantly. in the cases with restenosis, the departure area, which had decreased in size after ptca, showed an increase in size. after successful re-ptca, the size of the departure area again became smaller. we concluded that bspm, which is a simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive method, is useful in the evaluation of the clinical efficacy of ptca and in the detection of restenosis after successful ptca.
flow-volume characteristics in the pulmonary circulation. isolated ferret and canine lungs were used to validate a method for assessing determinants of vascular volume in the pulmonary circulation. with left atrial pressure (pla) constant at 5 mmhg, flow (q) was raised in steps over a physiological range. changes in vascular volume (delta v) with each increment in q were determined as the opposite of changes in perfusion system reservoir weight or from the increase in lung weight. at each level of q, the pulmonary arterial and left atrial cannulas were simultaneously occluded, allowing all vascular pressures to equilibrate at the same static pressure (ps), which was equal to the compliance-weighted average pressure in the circulation before occlusion. hypoxia (inspired po2 25 torr) in ferret lungs, which causes intense constriction in arterial extra-alveolar vessels, had no effect on the slope of the ps-q relationship, interpreted to represent the resistance downstream from compliance (control 0.025 +/- 0.006 mmhg.ml-1.min, hypoxia 0.030 +/- 0.013). the ps-axis intercept increased from 8.94 +/- 0.50 to 13.43 +/- 1.52 mmhg, indicating a modest increase in the effective back-pressure to flow downstream from compliant regions. the compliance of the circulation, obtained from the slope of the relationship between delta v and ps, was unaffected by hypoxia (control 0.52 +/- 0.08 ml/mmhg, hypoxia 0.56 +/- 0.08). in contrast, histamine in canine lungs, which causes constriction in veins, caused the slope of the ps-q relationship to increase from 0.013 +/- 0.007 to 0.032 +/- 0.006 mmhg.ml-1.min (p less than 0.05) and the compliance to decrease from 3.51 +/- 0.56 to 1.68 +/- 0.37 ml/mmhg (p less than 0.05).
adjuvant cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil in patients with axillary node-positive breast cancer: an update of the guy's/manchester trial. between 1976 and 1985, 391 patients (202 premenopausal, 189 postmenopausal) with operable breast cancer and positive axillary lymph nodes were randomized after total mastectomy and axillary clearance to receive cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (cmf) (n = 193) or no adjuvant therapy (n = 198). after a median follow-up of 8 years, both relapse-free survival (rfs) and survival (s) were significantly prolonged in premenopausal patients receiving cmf (rfs, p less than .001; s, p = .003). treatment with cmf resulted in a significant improvement in rfs in premenopausal patients both with steroid receptor-positive and steroid receptor-negative tumors and also in subgroups of premenopausal patients defined by the number of axillary nodes involved. premenopausal patients who developed permanent amenorrhea following cmf had a significantly better rfs than those who continued to menstruate. induction of amenorrhea following cmf was related to age, with almost all patients over 40 years becoming amenorrheic. for patients less than or equal to 40 years, development of amenorrhea following cmf did not influence outcome. no difference was detected between control and cmf groups (rfs, p = .9; s, p = .9) in postmenopausal patients nor in any subgroup of these patients. the results of this trial of the efficacy of cmf for improving rfs and s have strengthened with longer follow-up.
pericardial effusion in primary hypothyroidism. pericardial effusion is reported to occur in 30% to 80% of subjects with hypothyroidism. however, these earlier studies were conducted when the diagnosis of hypothyroidism was only suspected and was confirmed only in the presence of classic clinical features. in contrast, the diagnosis has recently been established in the early mild stage or more often in an asymptomatic stage because of more frequent or routine determinations of thyroid function tests, especially in the elderly. thus the subjects in the older studies were severely hypothyroid at the time of diagnosis and may not be representative of the present hypothyroid population. for this reason, 30 subjects with hypothyroidism were evaluated with echocardiography to reassess the evidence of pericardial effusion in this disorder. only two subjects demonstrated pericardial effusion, and in only one of them with severe disease could the pericardial effusion be attributed to hypothyroidism, since it resolved on the patient's attaining the euthyroid state. thus the incidence of pericardial effusion was only 3% to 6%, depending on the inclusion of one or both subjects, an extremely infrequent occurrence when compared with that of previous studies. moreover, the occurrence of pericardial effusion in hypothyroidism appears to be dependent on the severity of the disease. thus pericardial effusion may be a frequent manifestation in myxedema, an advanced severe stage, as previously found, but a rare association of hypothyroidism, an early mild stage, because of the timeliness with which the latter condition is nowadays detected.
toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy. a pediatric oncology group study. experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (hdac) in pediatric solid tumors is limited. sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot pediatric oncology group (pog) study that required the administration of hdac at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses. there were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma, two cases of fibrosarcoma, four cases of neuroblastoma, and one case each of germ cell tumor, wilm's tumor, retinoblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, ewing's sarcoma, and burkitt's lymphoma. all eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy. thirteen patients received one course of hdac and three patients received two courses of hdac. due to prior treatments, patients had less than normal marrow reserves. short-term toxicity included nausea, vomiting, suppression of hemopoiesis, drug fever, and increased blood urea nitrogen (bun), creatinine, and liver enzymes. all evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities. there were no drug-related deaths. none of the patients had neurologic problems, including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull. with the above schedule, hdac appears to have manageable toxicity.
hemiparesis and ischemic changes of the white matter after intrathecal therapy for children with acute lymphocytic leukemia. three children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (all) developed delayed-onset transient hemiparesis and facial palsy after intrathecal (it) administration of methotrexate (mtx) alone or as part of triple intrathecal chemotherapy for central nervous system (cns) prophylaxis. the hemiparesis developed 10 to 14 days after it therapy. two of three children also experienced transient, profound expressive dysarthria. these episodes occurred during maintenance treatment after multiple it administrations and without previous cns toxicity. two of three children received intermediate-dose mtx, 1 g/m2, not less than 5 weeks before events. these patients had not received cranial irradiation and had no evidence of cns leukemia before or after these episodes. ischemic changes on computerized tomographic scan or magnetic resonance imaging studies were documented in all three cases. such changes are unusual manifestations of neurotoxicity in children after intrathecal therapy.
coronary pathology predicts conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting. conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting may result from compromised septal blood flow. to examine this hypothesis we reviewed the preoperative coronary angiography of 55 consecutive patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. thirty-five patients had either no lesion or a discrete lesion in the left anterior descending coronary artery that did not include the septal perforator (type i anatomy). twenty patients had a lesion of the left anterior descending coronary artery at the origin of the first septal branch, a lesion of the first septal artery, or a pair of lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that straddled the origin of the first septal artery; all lesions were proximal to the graft site (type ii anatomy). none of the patients with type i anatomy had a major conduction disturbance after coronary artery bypass grafting. eleven of the patients with type ii anatomy had major conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting; right bundle-branch block in 1, right bundle-branch block and left anterior hemiblock in 2, left bundle-branch block in 5, and complete atrioventricular block that required pacemaker implantation in 3 (p less than 0.001). in the 20 patients with type ii anatomy, the appearance of conduction disturbances correlated well with the absence of retrograde flow to the septal branches from the right coronary artery (p less than 0.01). pathological lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that compromise flow in the first perforator and that do not provide an adequate circulation produce localized damage and conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting. this can be predicted from the preoperative angiographic anatomy.
the effect of age on treatment choice and survival in elderly breast cancer patients. to investigate the effect of age on treatment choice and survival in patients with breast cancer, data from the cancer registry of the netherlands cancer institute (nki, amsterdam, the netherlands) on 611 women have been analyzed. all patients 55 years and older admitted to the nki for primary treatment of breast cancer between 1981 and 1986 were selected. for women 75 years and older, physicians were less likely to use treatment of adjuvant radiation therapy after a mastectomy and more often employed primary hormonal therapy only for local stage disease than for younger patients. life-table analysis showed that disease-specific survival at 7 years for patients 65 through 74 years of age was significantly better (65%) than that of the youngest (55%) and the oldest age group (50%). in multivariate regression analysis (cox), age older than 74 years was significantly and independently associated with a shorter disease-specific survival as compared with patients younger than 75 years. this difference in survival, however, does not seem to be the result of the difference in treatment between the age groups, but suggests an influence of age-related factors such as comorbid diseases and weak physical condition, which manifest themselves most strongly in the oldest age category and make the older woman more vulnerable to the course of malignant disease.
detection of myocardial infarction in the presence of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome by qrst isoarea map in dogs. the possibility of detecting myocardial infarction (mi) in the presence of wolff-parkinson-white (wpw) syndrome by means of body surface qrst isoarea maps was studied in eight dogs. eighty-seven body surface ecgs were recorded simultaneously. recordings were taken during right atrial (ra) and right atrial and right ventricular (ra + rv) sequential pacing, which simulated wpw syndrome, during control periods and at 1-hour intervals for up to 5 hours after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. in ecgs during the ra drive, diagnostic findings of mi such as abnormal q waves were observed but became obscure during the ra + rv drive. on the contrary, the qrst values over the anterior chest during both drives were positive soon after coronary occlusion, decreased gradually as time passed, and became abnormally negative after 5 hours. the qrst isoarea maps during ra and ra + rv pacing showed quite similar patterns and were highly correlated with each other throughout this study (r greater than 0.95). these findings demonstrate that localized abnormalities resulting from mi are evident in qrst isoarea maps even in the presence of preexcitation and fusion.
extramedullary plasmacytoma of the urethra: a case report. extramedullary plasmacytomas are uncommon manifestations of plasma cell neoplasms, which occur rarely in the urinary tract. we report to our knowledge the third case of primary iga plasmacytoma of the urethra. diagnosis, therapy and followup with magnetic resonance imaging are presented.
primary lymphoma of the central nervous system in two children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. postmortem examination disclosed central nervous system non-hodgkin's lymphoma in two children who died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) at 6 and 14 months of age, respectively. systemic signs of lymphoma were not present. the b-cell origin and clonality of the neoplastic cells were established by immunohistochemistry in one case and by molecular analysis of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in the other. moreover, in the latter case the neoplastic cells were characterized by the presence of a single episomal ebv genome. according to these data, the monoclonal b-cell proliferation occurred after ebv infection, thus suggesting a possible pathogenetic role of ebv in the early stages of lymphomagenesis.
abnormal differentiation of human papillomavirus-induced laryngeal papillomas. we studied the proliferation and differentiation of human laryngeal papillomas, which are benign tumors induced by human papillomaviruses. immunofluorescent stains of tissues for a number of differentiation-specific proteins showed abnormal differentiation. papilloma tissue fragments in vitro showed a slightly decreased fraction of proliferating cells that incorporated tritiated thymidine and a markedly reduced incorporation of tritiated uridine when compared with normal tissue. we propose that papillomavirus infection results in normal basal cell proliferation but abnormal terminal differentiation and that this abnormality significantly contributes to the hyperplasia of the papillomas.
aneuploidy in pancreatic insulinomas does not predict malignancy. nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) ploidy studies with paraffin embedded archival material from 14 pancreatic insulinomas were performed by flow cytometry. clinical follow-up (2 to 17 years; mean, 8 years) was obtained for all patients. half of the tumors had a normal dna histogram and half exhibited an abnormal dna profile consistent with dna aneuploidy. six of the seven patients with aneuploid tumors are alive and disease free (2 to 5 years postresection), and one is alive with metastatic disease. of the seven patients with tumors showing normal dna profiles, five are alive and disease free, one is dead of disease, and one is alive with metastatic disease. these data suggest that dna ploidy analysis is unlikely to provide useful prognostic information for patients with insulinomas.
marker profile of different phases in the transition of normal human ovarian epithelium to ovarian carcinomas. to investigate whether early changes in the transformation of normal ovarian epithelial cells into tumor cells can be detected with monoclonal antibodies, a comparative immunohistochemical study was performed on normal human ovarian mesothelial cells, cystomas, cystadenomas, ovarian carcinomas, as well as granulosa cell tumor. using monoclonal antibodies against different keratin subtypes, it was shown that mesothelial cells, ovarian cysts, cystadenomas, and carcinomas all reacted positively with broad-spectrum anti-keratin monoclonal antibodies (mabs), as well as with mabs to keratins 7, 8, 18, and 19. keratins 4 and 13 were not found in mesothelial cells, but positive groups of cells were identified in several cystomas, adenomas, and carcinomas. while mesothelial cells did not react with the pan-epithelial marker bw495/36, invaginating metaplastic mesothelial cells, inclusion cysts, cystomas, adenomas, and carcinomas showed an increasing reactivity with bw495/36, with an increasing degree of malignancy. the reactivity of mabs against ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens (ov-tl 3, oc 125, mov 18, and ov-tl 10) was limited to weak staining reaction in some mesothelial cells but were found to be positive on more than 50% of the ovarian cystadenomas and more than 90% of the ovarian carcinomas. thecal and granulosa cells of primordial, primary, and secondary follicles all reacted positively with antibodies to the broad-spectrum keratins ov-tl 12/5 and rck 102, and to keratins 8 and 18, but not with keratins 4, 7, 13, and 19. these keratins decreased or disappeared in granulosa cells of mature follicles (graafian follicles), whereas granulosa cell tumors did not react with anti-keratin antibodies. the reactivity of bw 495/36 was negative or limited to traces in some granulosa cells. ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens were not expressed in granulosa cells or granulosa cell tumors. the data indicate that mesothelial cells undergoing metaplastic changes finally resulting in ovarian cystadenomas (and carcinomas) initiate the synthesis of a 200-kd glycoprotein recognized by mab (bw 495/36), the production of ovarian carcinoma associated antigens, in addition to focal production of keratin 4 and/or 13, as seen in several samples. the granulosa cell tumors decrease or switch off their keratin production and remain negative for the 200-kd glycoprotein and the ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens.
nontuberculous mycobacterial infections of the skin. report of fourteen cases and review of the literature. this study comprised 14 patients from whose skin nontuberculous mycobacteria were recovered. most clinical manifestations were relatively nonspecific. various histopathologic patterns were observed in 22 biopsy specimens. recurrences were common and prolonged treatment was often necessary. culture of tissue remains the definitive diagnostic procedure. cutaneous lesions can be the first or only site of nontuberculous mycobacteriosis.
influence of the menstrual cycle on systemic diseases. physiological changes associated with the menstrual cycle influence the clinical course of some diseases such as bronchial asthma, allergies, anaphylaxis, epilepsy, migraine, dermatoses, and porphyria. hormonal manipulation can be beneficial in some patients.
the timed "up & go": a test of basic functional mobility for frail elderly persons. this study evaluated a modified, timed version of the "get-up and go" test (mathias et al, 1986) in 60 patients referred to a geriatric day hospital (mean age 79.5 years). the patient is observed and timed while he rises from an arm chair, walks 3 meters, turns, walks back, and sits down again. the results indicate that the time score is (1) reliable (inter-rater and intra-rater); (2) correlates well with log-transformed scores on the berg balance scale (r = -0.81), gait speed (r = -0.61) and barthel index of adl (r = -0.78); and (3) appears to predict the patient's ability to go outside alone safely. these data suggest that the timed "up & go" test is a reliable and valid test for quantifying functional mobility that may also be useful in following clinical change over time. the test is quick, requires no special equipment or training, and is easily included as part of the routine medical examination.
ganglioglioma: a clinical study with long-term follow-up. gangliogliomas are uncommon tumors of mixed neoplastic glial and neuronal elements. because of their low incidence, few large series exist that fully describe the clinical characteristics of patients afflicted with this tumor. we have reviewed the medical records of 20 patients at duke university medical center with histologically proven gangliogliomas. these patients typically presented within the first three decades of life and their most common presenting symptom was seizures. therapies included surgical resection, either partial or total, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy. long-term follow-up was achieved by chart review and by telephone interview. patients who underwent gross total resection alone seemed to fare the best when comparing all treatment groups, and we therefore recommend this as the main form of treatment.
beta-blocker duration of action and implications for therapy. two studies were conducted to measure the effect of serum half-life on beta-blocker-related heart rate reduction throughout the 24-hour period. in the first study, nadolol, atenolol and pindolol were associated with significant (p less than 0.01) heart rate reduction even at 24 hours after dose. nadolol, with a plasma half-life of 15.5 hours, had the most pronounced heart rate-lowering effect 24 hours after the daily dose compared to pindolol, which had a half-life of 5.5 hours. in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study, nadolol and atenolol had similar effects 3 to 4 hours after the daily dose. nadolol, however, produced greater suppression of heart rate and double product (blood pressure x heart rate) than atenolol (compared to placebo) 24 hours after ingestion of the daily dose. on ambulatory electrocardiography 24 hours after medication administration, 80 to 100% of the heart rate-attenuating effect of nadolol was maintained versus only 20 to 45% of atenolol's effect. statistically significant (p less than 0.05) reductions in heart rate were produced by nadolol, but not by atenolol, between 4 and 5 a.m., 6 and 7 a.m., 8 and 9 a.m. and 9 and 10 a.m. furthermore, nadolol remained at 52% of peak blood level at 24 hours, whereas atenolol was at 20%. the data from these 2 studies indicate that significant differences in duration of action exist between beta blockers.
prostaglandin modulation of early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachyarrhythmias induced by cesium chloride combined with efferent cardiac sympathetic stimulation in dogs. prostaglandins inhibit efferent cardiac sympathetic nerve effects by acting at presynaptic sites and may act to suppress some arrhythmias. in the present study, the effects of intravenous administration of prostacyclin (pgi2) and prostaglandin e2 (pge2) on early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachycardia induced by cesium chloride (0.5 mmol/liter per kg body weight intravenously) combined with stimulation of bilateral ansae subclaviae in anesthetized dogs were examined. the right atrium was paced at a constant cycle length of 600 ms. a left ventricular endocardial monophasic action potential catheter was used to detect early afterdepolarizations. prostacyclin (0.2 microgram/kg per min) reduced the amplitude of the early afterdepolarizations (39.2 +/- 8.4% of the monophasic action potential amplitude during control study to 28.7 +/- 5.5%, n = 10; p less than 0.001) as well as the prevalence of ventricular tachycardia (11 of 14 dogs during control study to 5 of 14 dogs; p = 0.031). prostaglandin e2 (0.2 to 0.6 microgram/kg per min) did not significantly reduce the early afterdepolarization amplitude (34.7 +/- 8.9% to 25.1 +/- 10.7%, n = 8; p = 0.085) or the prevalence of ventricular tachycardia (8 of 10 versus 6 of 10 dogs; p = 0.50). alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade with combined intravenous administration of propranolol (0.5 mg/kg) and phentolamine (0.3 mg/kg) decreased the amplitude of the early afterdepolarizations induced by cesium chloride and bilateral ansae subclaviae stimulation from 38.6 +/- 11.2% to 18.8 +/- 3.3% (n = 6; p = 0.005). additional administration of pgi2 further reduced the early afterdepolarization amplitude from 18.8 +/- 3.3% to 9.8 +/- 4.8% (n = 6; p = 0.001).
intraocular lens complications. the authors implanted intraocular lenses (iol) in 780 eyes and considered complications of this surgery, dividing the complications into intraoperative and postoperative, the latter early and late. the most frequent intraoperative complications were: hyphema, vitreous injury, pupil deformation with an iol in the anterior chamber (ac), and hyphema and corneal lesions with an iol in the posterior chamber (pc). among the early postoperative complications of an iol in the ac the authors noticed striate keratopathy and uveal flare and postoperative transitory ocular hypertension and striate keratitis with an iol in the pc. moreover, in late postoperative complications in ac implantation they observed: cystoid macular edema, bullous keratitis, retinal detachment, late uveitis, opacification of posterior capsule, eccentric displacement of the iol, and less frequently, cystoid macular edema in pc implantations. the authors prefer iol implantation in the pc after extracapsular cataract extraction, since this surgery causes less problems in the cornea, vitreous, and retina.
traumatic diaphragmatic hernia and intestinal obstruction due to penetrating trunk wounds. we have reported two cases of intestinal obstruction due to traumatic diaphragmatic hernia, both resulting from apparently trivial knife wounds. when tdh is due to a penetrating injury, it tends to produce symptoms of intestinal obstruction. a high index of suspicion, a chest x-ray film, and barium studies of the gastrointestinal tract are usually needed to make the diagnosis, though ct scans, ultrasonography, laparoscopy, and radionuclide scanning may also be useful. surgeons and emergency physicians should be aware of the potential for tdh when there is a history of a penetrating wound of the chest or abdomen.
large cystic optic glioma. a 5 1/2-year-old boy developed a huge cyst in his chiasmal glioma 4 years after radiation therapy. the cyst produced obtundation but was successfully treated.
emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient neurologically based clinical grading scales offer excellent prognostic information for the patient suffering diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). these grading scales are less applicable to patients with life-threatening intraparenchymal hematomas after aneurysmal rupture. during the last 3 years, four patients in a comatose state with brain stem compression syndromes documented by computed tomographic scans have undergone emergent operation in our neurosurgical service. each patient was so critically ill that we believed it unwise to delay craniotomy for diagnostic angiography. the average delay from the onset of coma to skin incision was 3.02 hours (range, 1.67-6.5 hours), and the average delay from arrival in our unit until skin incision was 1.8 hours (range, 0.75-2.5 hours). the condition of two arousable patients deteriorated while they were in the emergency room, presumably from new bleeding. each patient underwent craniotomy for hematoma evacuation, definitive aneurysm clipping, and lobectomy for decompression. temporary clipping was employed in one patient, and intraoperative rupture occurred in two others. three patients survived but retain significant disability. emergent craniotomy with empiric exploration of appropriate subarachnoid cisterns after hematoma decompression may be life-saving in some cases. the delay imposed for diagnostic angiography may be avoided in attempts to save vital minutes of severe brain stem compression.
dexamethasone-nonsuppressible cortisol in two cases with aldosterone-producing adenoma. forty-one patients with aldosterone-producing adenoma (apa) were subjected to a dexamethasone suppression test (dst) before surgery. serum cortisol and urinary excretion of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids were suppressed by dexamethasone in 39 patients [dst(+)]. in two patients (cases a and b), they were not suppressed [dst(-)]. clinical manifestations of the two dst(-) patients were similar to those of dst(+) patients. hypertension, hypokalemia, high serum aldosterone levels, and suppressed pra were found in all of the patients. the cut surfaces of the adenomas from all of the patients, including cases a and b, were golden yellow, which is typical of apa. however, atrophies of the adjacent normal tissues were evident exclusively in the two dst(-) patients. after removal of the affected adrenals, the serum cortisol level was suppressed by dexamethasone in one of the dst(-) patients (case b). these findings suggested autonomous cortisol production by apa. to evaluate whether cortisol could be produced from the adenoma tissue, the presence of several steroidogenic enzymes was studied by immunohistochemistry and mrna analysis in the adenomas and the adjacent nonneoplastic adrenals from the 2 dst(-) and 5 dst(+) patients. immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that steroidogenic enzymes were expressed in apa tumor tissues from both dst(-) and dst(+) patients. in both groups, mrnas coding steroidogenic enzymes were present not only in the nonneoplastic but also in the tumor tissues. quantitative analysis of the mrna levels revealed that in the adrenals from dst(+) patients, the mrnas were more abundant in nonneoplastic tissue than in tumor tissue. however, in those from dst(-) cases, the mrnas were much more abundant in the tumor tissues than in the nonneoplastic tissues. these results indicate that tumor cells of the two dst(-) patients autonomously synthesized not only aldosterone but also cortisol. the diameters of the tumors from the two dst(-) patients exceeded 3 cm, while those from other dst(+) patients were smaller. in patients with large apa, adrenal insufficiency should be anticipated upon removal of the tumor.
intradural chordoma of the tentorium cerebelli. case report. a rare case of intradural chordoma is described. the literature contains seven examples of intradural extraosseous chordoma, all reported in a ventral location. this is the first reported case of a primary intradural chordoma distant from the clivus and involving both the supra- and infratentorial compartments.
the effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma. the effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial, with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients. the purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury. from 1980 through 1989, 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the trauma service. there were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years (range, 15 to 61). motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 (94%) of the injuries. group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl (range, 15 to 380). in group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol. there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age, abbreviated injury severity score, initial hematocrit, and grade of splenic injury. hypotension was present in 13 patients (55%) in group 1 versus six patients (26%) in group 2 (p less than 0.05). significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients (25%) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group (p less than 0.05). blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in group 1 (mean, 3.9 units) versus group 2 (mean, 0.5 units) (p less than 0.001). if alcohol was present, there was much less chance for splenic conservation, as 18 patients (75%) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients (30%) in the nonalcohol group (p less than 0.05). there was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct.
histopathologic study of otitis media in individuals with head and neck tumors. five temporal bones, each including the eustachian tube, were obtained from five adults with advanced malignant tumors of the head and neck. the specimens were from the side on which the tumor had occurred. otitis media had been detected clinically in two cases, and was detected histopathologically in the other three. we discuss the possibility that otitis media might have been caused by tumor invasion of the paratubal area, by postoperative inflammation in the nasopharynx, or by an inflammatory reaction of tubal structures to radiotherapy, or that these conditions may have coexisted.
hypodense eosinophils and interleukin 5 activity in the blood of patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the recent recognition of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan prompted an analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophil phenotypes and of the serum eosinophil hematopoietins in this disorder. five patients with an illness characterized by the abrupt onset of aching skeletal muscles, edema, thickening and induration of the skin, and marked blood eosinophilia associated with l-tryptophan ingestion provided eosinophils, serum, or both, for evaluation. gradient sedimentation density analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophils from four of these patients revealed that 43 +/- 13% (mean +/- sem) of the cells had converted to the abnormal (hypodense) sedimenting phenotype. when normodense eosinophils from the reference donors were cultured for 3 days in medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of serum from the patients with ems, their viability increased in a dose-dependent manner to 45%, which was significantly augmented over the effect of normal serum. this eosinophil viability-sustaining activity was inhibited by 76 +/- 7% (mean +/- sem; n = 3) by the addition of anti-interleukin 5 (il-5) but not by neutralizing antibodies monospecific for either granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) or il-3. il-5, an eosinophilopoietic factor, converts normodense peripheral blood eosinophils in vitro to a hypodense sedimenting form with extended viability and augmented biologic responses to activating stimuli. thus, the presence of il-5 in the sera of patients with ems may contribute to the development and maintenance of the eosinophilia and may regulate the conversion of the peripheral blood eosinophils to the hypodense phenotype with augmented pathobiologic potential.
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries, neural structures, and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome. hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981. the clinical manifestations, now known as the toxic oil syndrome, include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs. many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness. because scleroderma involves the heart, in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries, neural structures, and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome. dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma. atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus. small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration. this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery. every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves, ganglia, and the coronary chemoreceptor. both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system. based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid, we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome, particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids. if this is so, it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals.
external ear resonance in children with otitis media with effusion. a middle ear effusion has been shown, in kemar, to increase the height of the resonant peak of the external auditory canal by 6 db spl. it has also been shown that the hearing impairment due to otitis media with effusion is related to the volume of middle ear fluid. therefore, it was hypothesized that measurement of the height of the resonant peak of the external auditory canal could be used as a method of assessing the magnitude of any hearing impairment due to otitis media with effusion. 182 ears from 182 children aged 3-12 (mean 6.3) years were studied. pure-tone audiometry and impedance tympanometry were performed, and the acoustics of the external auditory canal were measured using the rastronics cc1-10 frequency response analyser. the mean height of the resonant peak (17.9 db spl) of children with a type a tympanogram was significantly different from the mean value (23.6 db spl) of those with a type b tympanogram. there was a significant correlation between the height of the resonant peak and the speech frequency average of the pure-tone thresholds. the sensitivity and specificity of using the height of the resonant peak to detect hearing impairments in different age groups were calculated and compared with the sensitivity and specificity of tympanometry. the test did not provide the same degree of sensitivity as tympanometry but was more specific. the additional advantages of the test are that it is quick, taking less than 1 min per ear, and is well tolerated by children in whom there was a 99% compliance.
doxorubicin for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. a prospective study on the addition of verapamil. a prospective study was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of the addition of oral verapamil to intravenous adriamycin (doxorubicin) for the management of patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). all 28 patients studied had histologically verified disease, and cirrhosis was present in 20 of the 21 patients with adequate tissue sampling. the overall median survival was 57 days. chemotherapy was terminated in seven patients after one course of treatment. partial response and complete response were noted in four patients (19%) and one patient (4.8%), respectively, among the 21 patients evaluated. side effects related to the chemotherapy were present in all patients studied. death from fulminating sepsis occurred in three of the 13 patients with leukopenia. symptomatic myocardial dysfunction developed in one patient. the addition of verapamil apparently did not potentiate the tumoricidal effect of systemic adriamycin on hcc but probably did increase its complications.
in vivo nonthrombogenicity of heparin immobilized polymer surfaces. the authors developed two different methods to immobilize heparin on polymer surfaces. one method involves in situ heparin immobilization on a segmented polyurethane urea (biomer) surface via hydrophilic poly(ethylene oxide) (peo, mn = 4,000) spacers. the other method uses peo/poly(dimethylsiloxane) (pdms) block co-polymer and heparin covalently linked in a block co-polymer system (peo-pdms-hep). these surfaces have demonstrated high heparin bioactivity in vitro and excellent blood compatibility in in vitro-ex vivo experiments. this report evaluates the long-term in vivo blood compatibility of these heparin immobilized surfaces. vascular grafts (6 mm id, 7 cm in length) were fabricated with biomer, and heparin was immobilized in situ with peo spacers (b-peo4k) and coated on their luminal surfaces with peo-pdms-hep. biomer and peo (mn = 4,000) grafted biomer (b-peo4k) were used as controls. the grafts were implanted in the abdominal aorta of dogs and retrieved at 3 months or when graft occlusion was suspected. retrieved grafts were evaluated with scanning electron microscopy (sem) and transmission electron microscopy (tem). tem measured the thickness of the adsorbed protein layer on the surface and the protein distribution (albumin, fibrinogen, and igg) visualized by an immunogold method. all heparin immobilized grafts were patent at 3 months, whereas biomer and b-peo4k grafts occluded within 1 month. sem pictures of heparin immobilized surfaces after 3 months demonstrated minimal platelet adhesion and activation without detectable fibrin formation. heparin immobilized surfaces showed a thin protein layer (300-600 a) even after 3 months, with high concentrations of albumin and igg and less fibrinogen.
overexpression of normal and mutated forms of hras induces orthotopic bladder invasion in a human transitional cell carcinoma. recent studies have shown that orthotopic (transurethral) transplantation of human bladder cancer cell lines into nude mice permits tumor growth that accurately reflects their clinical malignant status in the original host. thus, such a system allows a unique opportunity to analyze the genetic events involved in the conversion of low-grade bladder cancer, the vast majority of which are curable, to the high-grade life-threatening form of the disease. since 5-10% of transitional cell carcinomas (tccs) have been shown to contain a mutated hras gene, and protein expression levels of all forms of hras have been correlated with tcc progression, we chose to study the contribution of the hras oncogene in bladder tumor progression. we evaluated the effects of transfection of normal or mutated hras genes into a human tcc, called rt-4, that behaves as a superficial noninvasive papillary tumor after transurethral orthotopic inoculation into athymic nude mice. we found that overexpression of either transfected normal or mutated hras genes converted rt-4 cells to express an invasive phenotype remarkably similar in nature to the clinical behavior of high-grade bladder carcinomas. these results suggest a role for overexpressed normal or mutated ras genes in human bladder carcinoma progression, and highlight the importance of using orthotopic inoculation systems for evaluation of the contribution of oncogenes to malignant tumor progression.
calcium, parathyroid hormone, and vitamin d in the "prehypertensive" dahl salt-sensitive rat. the purpose of this study was to determine if alterations of calcium and calcium regulating hormones precede the onset of nacl-induced hypertension in the dahl salt-sensitive (s) rat. after a 5-day balance study, serum ionized calcium, parathyroid hormone (pth), and 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d concentrations were measured in dahl-s and salt-resistant (r) rats that had been maintained on a "normal" (1%) or high (7%) nacl intake. blood pressure was higher in dahl-s than dahl-r (p less than .01), but was not affected by 5 days of high nacl. on both nacl intakes, urine calcium excretion was increased, serum calcium was decreased, and serum pth and 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin d were increased in dahl-s compared to dahl-r (p less than .01). on the high nacl intake, fecal calcium was greater in dahl-s than in dahl-r, and net 5-day calcium balance was less positive in dahl-s (p less than .05). thus, alterations of calcium, pth, and vitamin d precede nacl-induced hypertension in dahl-s. these alterations may contribute to the development of hypertension in this animal model.
strategy for breakpoint cluster region analysis in chronic myelocytic leukemia in a routine clinical laboratory. despite the increasing reliance on breakpoint cluster region (bcr) determinations in diagnosis of chronic myelocytic leukemia (cml), few reports have dealt with the practical aspects of specimen analysis. in the setting of a routine molecular diagnostics laboratory, samples from 68 patients with active cml were evaluated for bcr rearrangements, with the use of a variety of enzymes and two probes. the data have been used to develop an efficient strategy for bcr screening and breakpoint determination. screening with the universal bcr (ubcr) probe on xba i and bgi ii digests yielded bcr rearrangements in 100% of the ph1-positive patients and three of the seven ph1-negative patients, giving bcr analysis a sensitivity of 100%. a single-enzyme screen using the ubcr probe would have resulted in a false negative rate of 10%. the false negative rate was determined during the breakpoint site analysis from additional digests hybridized to both the 3' and ubcr probes. the false negative rate for the 3' probe was 26.5%, because of deletions or 5' rearrangements. the method of breakpoint site determination was dependent on screening results. in 78% of cases, one additional hybridization with two enzyme digests was required. during breakpoint site analysis, a rare false negative result was also demonstrated with bam hi and eco ri. this screening strategy has made bcr analysis competitive with cytogenetic analysis at the authors' institution; although turnaround time may be slightly longer, bcr analysis can yield information (such as detecting bcr-positive/ph1-negative patients and determining breakpoint site) that cannot be obtained by cytogenetics.
st segment alternans during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty--a case report. the occurrence of electrical alternans of the st segment has been reported in patients with variant angina. the authors encountered a patient with typical electrical alternans of the st segment in leads v4 through v6, which developed during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) of the proximal left anterior descending artery. hemodynamic pulsus alternans of the aortic pressure tracing was not observed during electrical alternans, and a ca2+ blocker could not prevent this phenomenon during ptca.
transplant coronary artery disease: histopathologic correlations with angiographic morphology. accelerated coronary artery disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among cardiac transplant recipients. ten patients who died or underwent retransplantation within 2 months of coronary angiography had direct correlation of angiographic (normal discrete lesions, diffuse concentric narrowing) with histologic appearance of coronary arteries. of the 26 angiographically normal segments, 73% showed mild to moderate fibrous intimal thickening by light microscopy. the remainder had intermediate lesions or atheromatous plaques. discrete stenoses usually corresponded to lipid-rich intermediate or atheromatous disease. in contrast, angiographically diffuse, concentrically narrowed lesions usually were areas of severe fibrous intimal thickening. fresh or organizing thrombus was most often associated with discrete lesions and accounted for all complete occlusions. histologic and angiographic comparisons of the degree of luminal narrowing showed generally good correlation for high grade stenoses. lesions graded as having less than 25% diameter narrowing were often underestimated angiographically as compared with histologic determinations. transplant coronary artery disease has a heterogeneous histologic and angiographic appearance, with angiographic underestimation of disease in some patients.
risk factors for gallstones among chinese in taiwan. a community sonographic survey. a health survey of adults aged 30 years or more was carried out in southwest taiwan to determine the prevalence of gallstones and to study risk factors associated with gallstones. blood samples were collected and abdominal sonographic examination and anthropometric measurements were performed on a total of 923 people. the 40 gallstone cases detected resulted in a prevalence of 4.3%. the risk factors explored included age, sex, hepatitis, obesity, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes mellitus (dm). age and dm were the only significant factors associated with gallstones in our study. with a reference group of 30-39-year-olds as a comparison, multiple logistic regression analysis showed a trend effect with odds ratios of 1.73, 3.74, and 6.32 for age groups of 40-49, 50-59, and 60 or above, respectively. the odds ratio for dm was as high as 2.59. however, sex, body weight index, chronic hepatitis b, and hyperlipidemia were not significantly associated with gallstones.
lung cancer in patients younger than 40 years of age. the records of 52 patients younger than 40 years of age who had bronchogenic carcinoma diagnosed between 1965 and 1985 were reviewed. the preponderance of adenocarcinoma (54%), the lower male-female ratio in this age group compared with patients age 40 or older (2:1), the importance of cigarette smoking as a causative factor (80% of patients), the long mean duration of symptoms (5 months), and the high incidence of advanced stage at diagnosis (77% stages iii and iv) in these patients are findings similar to those reported in other published series. there was no significant difference in resectability (23% versus 19%), median survival length (5.3 months versus 6.9 months), median survival length of patients who had surgical resection (10.5 months versus 10.8 months), and 5-year survival rate (11.5% versus 6.3%) in these patients compared with a randomly selected group of 260 patients with lung cancer who were age 40 or older.
protective and curative effects of rifampicin in acanthamoeba meningitis of the mouse. balb/c mice inoculated nasally with acanthamoeba culbertsoni, resulting in amebic encephalitis and death 3-7 days, were treated with rifampicin prophylactically (daily for 2 days with 75 and 100 mg/kg) and after infection (daily for 5 days with doses of 10-100 mg/kg). prophylactic treatment resulted in full protection against infection, as assessed by absence of symptoms of central nervous system malfunction and negative brain culture 10 days after inoculation. curative treatment was effective at the same doses; however, at doses of 10, 25, and 50 mg/kg, only two of six animals were free of symptoms and infection.
changes in cardiovascular homeostasis after injury are mediated by tissue damage and not haemorrhage. during treatment of the injured patient it is assumed that the cardiovascular responses follow recognized physiological principles. studies in humans have shown that injury causes a profound suppression of arterial baroreflex function which alters the normal relationship between heart rate and blood pressure and casts doubt on this assumption. to investigate the mechanism of baroreflex suppression, we have studied the effects of the two major components of injury, blood loss and tissue damage, on baroreflex function in healthy volunteers. baroreflex function was assessed using suction stimulation of the carotid sinus. the loss of 500 ml blood had no effect on baroreflex sensitivity. a human laboratory model of tissue injury reduced the ability of the baroreflex to compensate for a rise in blood pressure (p less than 0.05, wilcoxon signed rank test). we conclude that tissue damage, rather than hypovolaemia, appears to mediate the effect of injury on baroreflex function in the injured. blockade of neural signals from damaged tissue may have a role in the treatment of injury.
venous and arterial thrombosis in patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. the records of 2,673 patients randomized according to seven consecutive eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog) studies of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer were reviewed for the occurrence of vascular complications. all protocols opened and closed between june 1977 and july 1987. the objectives of the present study were (1) to compare the frequency of vascular complications among patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with patients on observation, and (2) to estimate the contribution of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy to the occurrence of venous and arterial thrombi. the frequency of thrombosis, both venous and arterial combined, was 5.4% among patients who received adjuvant therapy and was 1.6% among patients on observation (p = .0002). premenopausal patients who received chemotherapy and tamoxifen had significantly more venous complications than those who received chemotherapy without tamoxifen (2.8% v 0.8%, p = .03). postmenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had significantly more venous thrombi than those who received tamoxifen alone (8.0% v 2.3%, p = .03) or those who were observed (8.0% v 0.4%, p less than .0001). premenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had a 1.6% frequency of arterial thrombosis, significantly more than patients who received chemotherapy alone (1.6% v 0.0%, p = .004). the frequency of arterial thrombosis among postmenopausal patients was not significantly correlated with adjuvant therapy. in conclusion, patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had a 5.4% frequency of thromboembolic complications, significantly more than those who were observed. the combination of chemotherapy and tamoxifen was associated with more venous and arterial thromboembolic complications than chemotherapy alone in premenopausal patients and with more venous thrombi than tamoxifen alone among postmenopausal patients.
diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations. infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients. in particular, cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation. we are evaluating a new antiviral agent, ganciclovir 9-[1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl] guanine (dhpg), used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections. between march 1, 1987, and june 30, 1989, we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease. from this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with dhpg. tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract (11 patients) or colonoscopy (three patients). invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient, who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with dhpg and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis. while 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with dhpg, four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered. no dhpg toxicity was observed. we believe treatment with dhpg is indicated in this patient population, but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation.
loop ileostomy after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis--is it necessary? construction of a loop ileostomy is usually advised in patients having an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis to minimize the complication of chronic pelvic sepsis. formation and closure of a loop ileostomy was associated with a 41 percent and 30 percent complication rate, respectively, in a prospective series of 34 patients. this morbidity must now be assessed in relation to the benefits of avoiding temporary fecal diversion in restorative proctocolectomy.
interaction of the v-rel protein with an nf-kappa b dna binding site. the avian reticuloendotheliosis virus t contains within its genome the oncogene rel. the expression of this gene is responsible for the induction of lymphoid tumors in birds. recently, the rel gene was shown to be related to the p50 dna binding subunit of the transcription factor complex nf-kappa b. binding sites for the nf-kappa b complex are found in the enhancer regions of a number of genes, including the immunoglobulin kappa gene and the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat. in this communication we identify an activity from avian reticuloendotheliosis virus t-transformed avian lymphoid cells that binds in an electrophoretic-mobility-shift assay to an nf-kappa b binding site from the kappa enhancer. this activity contains proteins immunologically related to rel, as detected by polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies directed against v-rel. in a dna affinity precipitation assay using the nf-kappa b site from the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat, v-rel and several other proteins were identified. these data suggest that oncogenic transformation by v-rel is the result of an altered pattern of gene expression.
endoprosthetic reconstruction after bone tumor resections of the proximal tibia. the advent of successful adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation therapy protocols for primary malignant tumors and the development of custom-designed metallic endoprostheses has now made possible a successful limb salvage procedure for malignancies of the proximal tibia. use of the transposed medial gastrocnemius flap, as proposed by dr. jean duboussett of paris, has been critical to the soft-tissue reconstruction that routinely permits an excellent active and passive range of motion for these patients. this article describes the operative techniques and technical considerations necessary for a successful proximal tibial endoprosthesis reconstruction.
a possible role for antiphospholipid antibodies in acquired cardiac valve deformity. we studied the frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies (apl) in patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement, and present the results in the context of the pathology of the valve lesions. forty-eight consecutive patients undergoing valve replacement were studied. of the whole group, 15 (31%) had antibody levels greater than 2 sd above the mean for a control group of healthy persons and 11 (23%) had a level of greater than 3 sd. there was an increased frequency of elevated antibody levels in patients with valves showing fibrocalcific change and a significant association between apl and valve thrombus. the possible role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of the valve lesions is discussed.
the distribution of enkephalins in human carotid bodies showing cellular proliferation and chronic glomitis. human carotid bodies obtained at necropsy that showed prominence of either the sustentacular cell or the dark variant of chief cell or chronic carotid glomitis were studied by an immunogold labeling technique. the peptides methionine and leucine enkephalin had a similar distribution to that found in the normal human carotid body. they were localized prominently and predominantly in the dark and progenitor variants of chief (type i) cells. the sustentacular (type ii) cells showed no immunoreactivity for the enkephalins. cell counts on immunolabeled chief cells in cases of sustentacular cell hyperplasia and chronic carotid glomitis were found to be at the lower end of the normal range, whereas those in dark cell prominence occurred nearer the upper limit.
heart transplantation in patients with severe pulmonary hypertension and increased pulmonary vascular resistance. irreversibly increased pulmonary vascular resistance is a contraindication for cardiac transplantation. at our hospital patients referred for recipient evaluation with systolic pulmonary artery pressure greater than 50 mmhg and pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 2 wood units (wu) are tested with intravenous sodium nitroprusside for reversibility. in 23 patients whose increased systolic pulmonary artery pressure (67.4 +/- 10.4 mmhg) and resistance (4.8 +/- 2.4 wu) were reduced by nitroprusside, orthotopic heart transplantation was performed without early mortality. right heart catheterization after transplantation revealed a significant and persistent fall of the elevated pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance. we conclude that if severe pulmonary hypertension and elevated pulmonary vascular resistance are reversible with nitroprusside, the patient can safely undergo heart transplantation.
risks factors for cerebral infarction in good-grade patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery: a prospective study. a prospective series of 265 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of grades i to iii (hunt and hess classification) upon admission were evaluated as to neurological outcome and computerized tomography (ct) findings 1 to 3 years (mean 1.4 years) after the sah and surgery. a total of 73 patients underwent acute surgery (within 72 hours after the bleed: days 0 to 3), 86 were operated on subacutely (between days 4 and 7), and 91 had late surgery (on day 8 or later). fifteen patients died before surgery was undertaken and another 20 patients died during the follow-up period. a total of 104 patients received nimodipine and the rest of the patients received either placebo (109 patients) or no medication (52 patients). a logistical regression analysis revealed the following prognostic factors for cerebral infarction, in order of importance: the amount of blood on the primary ct scan; postoperative angiographic vasospasm; the timing of the operation; and a history of hypertension. the use of nimodipine was associated with a significant reduction of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in patients who received intermediate or late surgery. in patients who underwent acute surgery no significant difference between the incidence of cerebral infarcts was observed.
metaplastic change in mesenchymal stem cells induced by activated ras oncogene. 3t3 t murine mesenchymal stem cells have the potential to differentiate into a variety of different cell types even though they show a predilection to undergo adipocyte differentiation in vitro. the possibility that the activated c-ha-ras (ejras) oncogene might influence the pathway of differentiation of these stem cells is investigated in the current study. activated ras oncogene was transfected and stably expressed in 3t3 t cells; assays then were performed to determine its effect on differentiation. the results show that all ejras-transfected cell lines lose their ability to differentiate to adipocytes and instead differentiate into cells that express many characteristics of macrophages. such cells contain numerous cytoplasmic granules, extensive nonspecific esterase activity, and anchorage-independent growth. the modulation of differentiation pathway from an adipocyte lineage to a macrophagelike cell lineage does not result from the transforming effect of ejras, because a nontransformed cell clone that expresses p21ejras protein also exhibits this modified differentiation pathway. these data suggest that the ejras oncogene specifically modulates the differentiation pathway of 3t3 t mesenchymal stem cells. this experimental system should therefore provide an excellent model to evaluate the mechanistic role of ejras in the process of metaplasia.
femoral noninfected anastomotic aneurysms. a report of 56 cases. fifty-six femoral non infected anastomotic false aneurysms (faas) were observed in 49 patients admitted to the institute of vascular surgery, university of milan, from 1975 to 1988; in 6 patients they were bilateral. these aneurysms developed after primary revascularization procedures at a mean interval of 66 months (range 12 to 156 months); one recurred after reparative surgery. forty-four faas (78.6%) were asymptomatic, whereas 3 (5.3%) were complicated by acute expansion and 9 (16.1%) by thrombosis. host vessel degeneration was the cause of aneurysm formation in most cases. a history of hypertension was present in 30% of the patients. all anastomotic aneurysms were operated upon except for one small aneurysm that was asymptomatic. in 5 patients aneurysm resection was carried out on both sides. the surgical technique was endoaneurysmectomy in all the cases with insertion of an interposition graft in 48 cases, a fabric patch in 2 cases and prosthesis re-anastomosis in 5 cases. one case of peripheral embolization occurring in the early postoperative period was successfully treated and there was no operative mortality. in our opinion elective repair of these aneurysms should be recommended whenever possible because of their propensity to develop serious complications and the operative morbidity is low.
participation of serotonergic mechanisms in the pathophysiology of experimental neoplastic spinal cord compression. we evaluated the role of serotonin (5-ht) in neoplastic cord compression in paraplegic rats harboring a thoracolumbar epidural tumor. we measured serotonin and its major metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-hiaa), in the c-1 to c-7, t-1 to t-6, t-7 to t-12, and t-13 to l-3 spinal segments of tumor-free and tumor-bearing rats. in normal controls, a consistent rostral-to-caudal gradient for 5-ht and 5-hiaa was evident, but the 5-hiaa/5-ht ratio remained constant. in paralyzed rats, 5-ht levels were unchanged, but the 5-hiaa/5-ht ratio was elevated, especially in the compressed segments. treatment with either dexamethasone or indomethacin delayed onset of paraplegia but had no effect on 5-ht metabolism. blocking 5-ht receptors by cyproheptadine, evaluated 30 hours after onset of paralysis and treatment, resulted in a reduction in the high water content, vascular permeability, and prostaglandin e2 synthesis in the compressed cord. early administration of cyproheptadine effectively delayed the onset of paraplegia. these data indicate that receptor-activated serotonergic mechanisms participate in the disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier and that these effects can be manipulated pharmacologically.
propranolol and the morning increase in sudden cardiac death: (the beta-blocker heart attack trial experience). to provide insight into the protective effect of propranolol on mortality after myocardial infarction observed in the beta-blocker heart attack trial, the time of occurrence of sudden cardiac death was examined in this population. between 5 a.m. and 11 a.m., 25 of the 56 total deaths (38%) occurred in the placebo patients compared with 11 of 45 (24%) in the propranolol patients. excluding this period, there were nearly equal numbers of sudden cardiac deaths in the propranolol and placebo groups. this retrospective analysis suggests that beta blockade is protective during the morning hours when a surge of sympathetic activity may increase the risk of sudden cardiac death.
feasibility of reversing benzodiazepine tolerance with flumazenil to examine whether the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil can reverse tolerance to benzodiazepines but without precipitating withdrawal seizures, the antiepileptic effect of flumazenil itself and its ability to reverse tolerance at a dose that would leave sufficient receptors free for the binding of benzodiazepines were investigated. electroencephalographic studies in 6 patients with partial and 6 with generalised seizures showed that flumazenil had a short (20 min) non-dose-dependent suppressant effect on epileptic discharges in those with partial seizures. receptor occupancy studies in 12 patients showed that 1.5 mg flumazenil given intravenously occupied 55% receptors, whereas 15 mg occupied nearly all receptors. when 3 patients with partial seizures who had become tolerant to clonazepam were given 1.5 mg flumazenil, they were seizure-free for 6-21 days after the injection. the value of intermittent therapy with a benzodiazepine antagonist for preventing or reversing tolerance to benzodiazepine agonists ought to be investigated further.
the hazards of surgical glove dusting powders. surgical contaminants of many kinds, including glove powder, constitute a source of formation of granulomas. this is particularly well-documented in the peritoneal cavity ("starch peritonitis"), but has been documented in most anatomic sites. the production of starch-free gloves should remove this hazard, but the surgeon should remain aware that most particulate substances introduced into the body inevitably set up an inflammatory response.
severity of coronary atherosclerosis correlates with the respiratory component of heart rate variability. decreased vagal activity is frequently observed in coronary artery disease, but the mechanism of this association is unknown. we investigated cardiac autonomic function by relating heart rate spectral components to clinical and angiographic findings in 80 patients who were undergoing coronary angiography. the age- and sex-adjusted magnitude of the respiratory spectral component, which is an index of cardiac vagal tone, showed a significant negative correlation with the extent of coronary atheromatosis (r = -0.43, p less than 0.0001) and a less significant negative correlation with the severity of coronary stenosis (r = -0.30, p = 0.0070). these relationships were independent of previous myocardial infarction and of left ventricular function. stepwise regression analysis showed that the respiratory spectral component contributed to atheromatosis independently of established coronary risk factors (partial r2 = 9.4%, p = 0.002), but not to stenosis. our results support the hypothesis that decreased cardiac vagal activity is associated with an increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis.
rib compression of the coronary arteries. this report describes the finding of coronary artery narrowing caused by compression by an overlying rib in two patients with cardiomegaly. there is probably no clinical significance to this finding. the primary differential diagnostic entity is myocardial bridging.
facial muscle reanimation using the trigeminal motor nerve: an experimental study in the rabbit. surgical repair of facial nerve deficits may be marred by lack of muscle control and donor region paresis. using new zealand white rabbits, a study was undertaken to evaluate facial muscle reanimation with a donor source not previously used: the motor division of the trigeminal nerve. the results were compared with the severed facial nerve and hypoglossal-facial coaptation. an atrophy scale was calibrated for facial muscles of the rabbit. clinical, electromyographic, and histomorphometric findings confirmed that the trigeminal nerve was a suitable donor source. the neurorrhaphy produced an exponential rate of repair.
the world health organization's histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors. a commentary on the second edition. the world health organization's (who) histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors has been revised. although the general basis of classification and the overall outline remain similar to the first edition, advances in the last decade justified changes in classifying certain entities; among them were malignant lymphomas, endocrine tumors, and dysplasias. several newly recognized entities have also been added.
conduction system injury after aortic valve dilation in the dog single- versus double-balloon catheters. the range of morbidity induced by valvuloplasty is not fully known, but transient conduction disturbances are common. the authors performed aortic valve balloon dilatation on 10 closed-chest dogs with normal aortic valves, using a femoral cutdown approach and fluoroscopic guidance. four were done with a single 15 mm balloon catheter, and in the other 6 two 12 mm balloon catheters were used. balloons were inflated to 5 to 12 atms pressure with contrast solution. after several inflations the dogs were sacrificed, the hearts removed and examined. gross examinations revealed subendocardial hemorrhage in the outflow tract in 5 of the 6 in which double balloons had been used. microscopically, all aortic valve areas showed hemorrhage, mostly in loose connective tissues of the valve leaflets. the severity of injury appeared greater when two balloons had been used. histologic examination showed definite injury to the myocytes of the left bundle branch in all 6 of the double-ballooned dogs, but in none of those subjected to the single-balloon procedure. during aortic valve dilation the only manifestation of conduction system injury was prolongation of the qrs complex in 3 of the 6 dogs in which a double-balloon catheter had been used. the results suggest that electrocardiographic conduction disturbances observed in patients undergoing aortic valvuloplasty may be the result of direct injury of conduction tissue and may be more likely to occur when larger balloons are used.
sudden death behind the wheel from natural disease in drivers of four-wheeled motorized vehicles. the heart was studied in 30 persons who died suddenly from natural causes in the driver's seat of an automobile, truck or bus. twenty had cardiac arrest while driving and the other 10 while sitting in the driver's seat of a parked vehicle. of the 20 drivers, 16 died from atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (cad): 12 (75%) had minor collisions and 4 did not. of the 16 with fatal cad, an average of 2.3 +/- 0.8 of the 4 major coronary arteries were narrowed greater than 75% in cross-sectional area (csa) by plaque; of 668 five-mm segments of the 4 major (right, left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex) coronary arteries in 13 of these 16 cases, 27 (4%) were narrowed 96 to 100% and 127 (19%) were narrowed 76 to 95% in csa by plaque. the remaining 4 drivers died from noncoronary conditions: aortic rupture associated with the marfan syndrome in 1; cardiac sarcoidosis in 1; thoracic aortic dissection in 1; and severe mitral regurgitation from infective endocarditis, which had healed in 1. the other 10 persons were found dead in the driver's seat of a parked vehicle and 8 of them had fatal cad. of the 8 cad victims, an average of 2.5 +/- 1.2 of the 4 major coronary arteries was narrowed greater than 75% by plaque; of the 283 five-mm segments of coronary arteries in 7 of the 8 cases, 44 (16%) were narrowed 96 to 100% and 69 (24%) were narrowed 76 to 95% in csa by plaque.
comparison of anterior sphincteroplasty and postanal repair in the treatment of idiopathic fecal incontinence. both postanal repair and anterior sphincteroplasty with levatorplasty have been advocated in the treatment of idiopathic fecal incontinence. to assess the functional results of these procedures, physiologic and radiologic measurements were carried out prospectively in 33 patients with idiopathic incontinence undergoing operative treatment, and 12 age- and sex-matched controls. sixteen patients had anterior sphincteroplasty and levatorplasty and 17 had postanal repair. a satisfactory postoperative outcome was defined as perfect continence or incontinence of flatus only. ten patients in the anterior sphincteroplasty group had satisfactory results (64 percent) and 10 in the postanal repair group (59 percent). preoperatively, both groups had decreased resting and squeeze pressures, impaired and mucosal electrosensitivity, and marked pelvic descent vs. controls. postoperatively, significant improvement in sphincter pressures and mucosal electrosensitivity was seen in both groups. no significant change in anorectal angle was demonstrated in the postanal repair group, whereas it was made significantly more obtuse in the anterior sphincteroplasty group. it is likely that the improved continence resulting from either of these two procedures is secondary to better anal sphincter muscle function and improved and sensation. it would appear that the anorectal angle is not crucial in maintaining continence.
intraoperative air testing of colorectal anastomoses: a prospective, randomized trial. a total of 145 consecutive patients receiving a colorectal anastomosis were randomized to 'test' or 'no test' once the anastomosis had been completed. anastomotic testing was performed with the pelvis filled with saline and the rectum distended by sigmoidoscopic insufflation of air. any leaks demonstrated were oversewn. a water-soluble contrast enema was performed on the tenth postoperative day. seventy-four patients were randomized to 'test' and 71 to 'no test' but one patient was withdrawn from each group leaving a total of 143 for analysis. the two groups were well matched for age, sex, diagnosis and operative details. eighteen (25 per cent) air leaks were detected and repaired in the 'test' group. after operation there were three (4 per cent) clinical leaks in the 'test' group and ten (14 per cent) in the 'no test' group (fisher's exact test, p = 0.043). there were eight (11 per cent) radiological leaks in the 'test' group and 20 (29 per cent) in the 'no test' group (p = 0.006). intraoperative air testing and repair of colorectal anastomoses significantly reduces the risk of postoperative clinical and radiological leaks.
chondrosarcoma of bone in children. chondrosarcoma of bone rarely occurs in children. this report analyzes the clinicopathologic features in a series of 47 patients with conventional chondrosarcoma who were less than 17 years of age. of the 47 cases, 14 were from the mayo clinic files, and 33 were from our consultation files. most of the lesions occurred in the trunk and upper ends of the long bones, with the humerus being the most frequent skeletal site. twelve of the 47 tumors were secondary. the radiographic findings were the same as those seen in adult chondrosarcoma. pathologically, the tumors were low grade. en bloc resection is the treatment of choice because of the high incidence of local recurrence with lesser surgical margins. prognosis in childhood chondrosarcoma is no different from that in adult chondrosarcoma. none of the patients with follow-up data had metastasis.
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy. three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging. the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement. the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence.
mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock. from february 1982 to february 1990, 38 patients (30 male patients and 8 female patients) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years (mean 49.4 years) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) at st. louis university medical center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock. all patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients. patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit, cardiac catheterization laboratory, or the emergency department. diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions (12 patients), ischemic disease (15 patients), end-stage cardiomyopathy (7 patients), congenital heart disease (3 patients), or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection (1 patient). three patients could not be resuscitated with ecmo because of low flow, but the remaining 35 (92%) achieved hemodynamic stability with ecmo flows greater than 2 l/min/m2. duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours (mean 28 hours). twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ecmo support after coronary artery bypass (five patients), cardiac transplantation (two patients), or ventricular assist device insertion (eight patients), or with inotropic support (nine patients). of the 14 patients not weaned, three were inadequately resuscitated, two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ecmo, and nine were not candidates for further intervention. nine (24%) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors. our results indicate that resuscitative ecmo is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with (1) patients younger than 60 years of age; (2) patients having acute events (failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) amenable to surgical intervention; and (3) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ecmo insertion. with these criteria, ecmo, when used as a resuscitative system, can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest.
glucocorticoids locally disrupt an array of positioned nucleosomes on the rat tyrosine aminotransferase promoter in hepatoma cells. transcriptional activation by steroid hormones is often associated with the appearance of a dnase i hypersensitive site resulting from a local alteration of the nucleoprotein structure of the promoter. for the mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat, a viral promoter under glucocorticoid control, a model has been proposed: the appearance of the hormonodependent dnase i hypersensitive site reflects the displacement of a single precisely positioned nucleosome associated with the glucocorticoid responsive elements. to determine if such a mechanism is of general relevance in transcriptional activation by steroid hormones, we have investigated the nucleosomal organization of the rat tyrosine aminotransferase promoter over a 1-kilobase region that contains the glucocorticoid regulatory target. this region displays a hormonodependent dnase i hypersensitive site. in the absence of hormone, micrococcal nuclease digestion of nuclei demonstrates the presence of positioned nucleosomes, with cutting sites centered around positions -3080, -2900, -2700, -2800, -2255, and -2040. treatment of the cells with dexamethasone induces a disruption of the chromatin structure over a relatively short stretch of dna (approximately positions -2400 to -2650) that overlaps two nucleosomes. these observations suggest a strong similarity in the role of chromatin structure in glucocorticoid-dependent transcriptional activation of mouse mammary tumor virus and tyrosine aminotransferase promoters.
a study of immunoglobulin g in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the log igg-index. a comparison and diagnostic applications. cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin g from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods: isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding, and quantitative measurement of igg and albumin for the formulation of a log igg-index. a comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of igg showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall, with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the log igg-index, but also a higher specificity, with a false positive rate of 0% versus 3.5%. in addition, of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 (58%) were positive by the log igg-index. of the 1007 patients studied, 206 had multiple sclerosis (ms), and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95% of clinically definite cases, with a 90% detection rate overall. the log igg-index was positive in only 67% of clinically definite cases, with an overall 59% detection rate. thus with the exceptions noted above, local synthesis of igg as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating, inflammatory, infectious and postinfectious disorders. our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis, and better than those for evoked potentials. where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct. for the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging, isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative. we would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of igg abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes.
the incidence of myocarditis in endomyocardial biopsy samples from patients with congestive heart failure. we present the combined experience of three yugoslavian cardiovascular centers in the application of endomyocardial biopsy for the diagnosis of myocarditis in patients who present clinically with congestive heart failure. the study group comprised 107 patients (mean age, 40.8 years; range, 19 to 61 years). on the basis of patient history and diagnostic tests, the following clinical diagnoses were established: dilated cardiomyopathy (85), myocarditis (16), and alcohol-induced heart disease (6). emb samples were taken from the left ventricle (95) or both ventricles (12) by use of a king's college bioptome, with a mean of 3.2 samples per patient. histologic evidence of myocarditis was noted in 10 of 85 patients (12%) with a clinical diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy, in 2 of 6 patients (33%) with alcohol-induced heart disease, and in 12 of 16 patients (75%) with a clinical diagnosis of myocarditis. there was confirmation of the clinically suspected diagnosis in 63% of cases, a change of diagnosis based on histology in 15% of cases, and nonspecific findings in 22%. however, useful information was obtained in 78% of the cases, and there was a 22% incidence of histologically proven myocarditis for the entire group. our results indicate that endomyocardial biopsy is beneficial in determining the true incidence of myocarditis in patients with a clinical presentation of dilated cardiomyopathy.
peritumoral blood flow in intracranial meningiomas. blood flow was measured in intratumoral tissue, the cerebral hemispheres and particularly in the peritumoral area of 12 patients with intracranial meningiomas using the stable xenon-enhanced computed tomographic scan. tumor blood flow frequently showed a heterogeneous pattern of enhancement with high flow at the tumor periphery and a central area of hypoperfusion. blood flow values were on average 28% lower in the peritumoral area than in the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere. in individual cases, blood flow values in the peritumoral edematous area were very low. these findings suggest that the hypodense area surrounding meningiomas does not solely represent vasogenic edema, but may actually represent tumor pressure ischemia.
the legal implications of dietary fats: risks of cardiovascular disease and the duty of food manufacturers. the arguments for a warning on foodstuffs open new ground in product liability. some of the dangers of fat-laden foods have been apparent for many years and are widely known to the public. other aspects of fat consumption, specifically hidden fats, such as saturated fats, have only recently been explored, and are known to a limited segment of the population at risk. negligence and warranty theories are too narrow to encompass this situation, wherein the benefits and risks of a product are not well defined and not easily separable. some warning about the dangers resulting from fat ingestion is necessary, but may be adequately dispensed by ingredient labeling. if consumers are aware of the potential for harm, then they are assuming a substantial portion of the risk. how risk-free can we, or should we, make our society? the marketplace is the appropriate venue for determining the acceptance of saturated-fat-containing products by our society. clear and open labeling policies will allow consumers to weigh the relative advantages and disadvantages of lower fat intake. warnings of fat content need not be extreme, but should disclose the possible physiological outcome of the heavy ingestion of saturated fat.
might free arterial grafts fail due to spasm? the rat femoral artery was used as a free graft and was studied after 2, 7, 14, 30, and 60 days. the patency of the grafts was 100% (2 days, n = 6), 78% (7 days, n = 9), 63% (14 days, n = 8), 33% (30 days, n = 12), and 18% (60 days, n = 11). histology showed an intimal thickening after 14 days and the media, which in the controls consisted of eight to ten layers of myocytes, was reduced to six to eight cell layers. during the first 2 weeks the graft segments had an impaired contraction when exposed to krebs solution with 124 mmol/l k+, whereas after 1 month and later the graft segments approached the controls or had even higher contractile force. the thromboxane mimic u-46619 elicited full contractile force at all times whereas the potency was significantly lower during the first 14 days. noradrenaline was unable to induce contraction in the graft segments during the first 14 days, but at 30 and 60 days it had regained full contractile force and was significantly more potent (approximately 60 times) in the graft segments compared with the controls. this study suggests that intimal thickening and hypercontractility might be a problem in free muscular arterial grafts.
anti-tumor x anti-lymphocyte heteroconjugates augment colon tumor cell lysis in vitro and prevent tumor growth in vivo. cross-linking an anti-tumor antibody, specific for tumor cell surface antigens, and an anti-lymphocyte antibody, specific for the t lymphocyte receptor complex (tcr/cd3), produces a heteroconjugate that can direct t cells to lyse tumor cells. we tested the ability of anti-tumor x anti-lymphocyte (cd3) heteroconjugates to redirect human peripheral blood lymphocytes (pbls) to lyse human colon cancer cells in cytotoxicity assays and in a murine colon tumor model. we demonstrated in vitro, that cultured human pbls alone produced low levels of tumor lysis, but pbls treated with anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroconjugates produced significantly greater tumor cell lysis (p less than 0.0025). similarly, nude mice injected with ls174t human colon cancer cells and treated with cultured human pbls and anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroconjugates survived significantly longer than saline control mice (p less than 0.01), or mice treated with pbls alone (p less than 0.01), or heteroconjugates alone (p less than 0.05). f(ab')2 heteroconjugates were equally as effective in prolonging animal survival, but irrelevant heteroconjugates and monoclonal anti-tumor antibodies showed no therapeutic benefit. anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroconjugates may represent an effective approach to tumor-specific cellular immunotherapy.
the syndrome of bilateral hemispheric border zone ischemia. symptoms compatible with vertebrobasilar ischemia have been reported in patients with unilateral or bilateral carotid occlusive disease. intracranial steal phenomena have been proposed to explain the symptoms. in a review of 54 patients with angiographically documented severe bilateral carotid stenosis (less than or equal to 2 mm residual lumen) or occlusion, eight had symptoms suggesting vertebrobasilar insufficiency. five patients were identified retrospectively, and the other three were evaluated prospectively. symptoms included various combinations of hemodynamically mediated, transient bilateral motor, sensory, or visual impairment. dysarthria, dysphagia, and diplopia were generally absent. each patient also described additional symptoms compatible with transient hemispheric or retinal ischemia. the anatomic regions subserving the bilateral vertebrobasilar-like symptoms could be correlated with angiographically estimated arterial border zones in both hemispheres and may thus represent bilateral hemispheric border zone ischemia rather than brain stem ischemia. an intracranial steal need not be invoked.
traumatic asphyxia. traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema, multiple petechiae, and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen. a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported, and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed.
combined tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap and sartorius musculocutaneous flap for the repair of wide defects of the lower leg. the tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap has great advantages for reconstruction of the abdominal wall, but the medial border of its territory is limited to the thigh. in order to expand the territory, a combined tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap and sartorius musculocutaneous flap was devised. this flap was successfully used to resurface a large defect in the lower leg as a distally based musculocutaneous flap. the advantages of this flap are its extremely large territory, the fact that total necrosis of the flap cannot occur, and that as a proximally or distally pedicled flap it is suitable for large defects in the abdominal wall, lower leg, and gluteal region.
pelvic resections: the rizzoli institute experience. materials, methods, and techniques of pelvic resections are discussed. results, including the complications of nerve damage, infection, and vascular, visceral, and reconstructive complications are tabulated.
the use of internalised ureteric stents in renal transplant recipients. since 1982, we have used internal indwelling ureteric stents for the management and prevention of ureteric reconstruction complications in 28 renal allograft recipients. a total of 30 stents were placed in 18 patients either diagnostically or therapeutically in the management of allograft ureteric obstruction. in 16 patients internal stents were placed at the time of reconstruction for primary ureteropyelostomy (3), secondary ureteropyelostomy (8), repeat reimplant (3) and repair of ureteric or pelviureteric junction injury (2). complications included 3 episodes of transplant pyelonephritis, proximal stent migration (1), persistent bacteriuria (1) and prolonged healing of a ureteropyelostomy (1). internalised ureteric stenting is a safe and effective means of managing or preventing ureteric reconstruction complications in renal transplant recipients.
usefulness of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator in improving survival of patients with severely depressed left ventricular function associated with coronary artery disease. clinical outcome was analyzed among a group of 39 consecutive patients with coronary artery disease, left ventricular (lv) ejection fractions less than 30% and arrhythmias that required an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (aicd) in an attempt to better define the role of the device in patients with severely depressed lv function. twenty-nine (74%) were survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and 10 (26%) had ventricular tachycardia that was refractory to electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic therapy. the study group had the following demographic characteristics: 90% were men, mean age was 64 years (range 41 to 79) and mean lv ejection fraction was 21 +/- 4%. concomitant pharmacotherapy included antiarrhythmic drugs 31 (79%), vasodilators in 22 (56%) and digoxin in 20 (51%). there was no statistical difference in baseline characteristics between survivors and nonsurvivors. patients were followed for a mean of 24 months (range 2 to 72) from implantation. the difference between actuarial survival--77% at 1 year and 72% at 2 years--and projected survival without the aicd (patients who survive without appropriate device discharge)--30% at 1 year and 21% at 2 years--was significant (p less than 0.01 and less than 0.05 at 1 and 2 years, respectively). this study suggests that the aicd improves survival in patients with coronary artery disease despite severely depressed lv function.
bacterial meningitis in adults. bacterial meningitis continues to be an important cause of morbidity and mortality despite the availability of effective bactericidal antibiotics. penicillin or ampicillin remains the drug of choice for meningitis caused by streptococcus pneumoniae and neisseria meningitidis. the third generation cephalosporins have revolutionized the treatment of gram-negative meningitis. future therapy for bacterial meningitis will use recent developments in the understanding of pathogenic and pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this disease.
presence of identical mitochondrial proteins in unstimulated constitutive steroid-producing r2c rat leydig tumor and stimulated nonconstitutive steroid-producing ma-10 mouse leydig tumor cells. the acute regulation of steroidogenesis in steroidogenic tissues requires de novo protein synthesis. it is believed that these newly synthesized proteins are instrumental in the delivery of the substrate, cholesterol, to the inner mitochondrial membrane where the cholesterol side-chain cleavage complex converts cholesterol to pregnenolone. a number of studies have attempted to characterize the protein(s) synthesized in response to hormone stimulation and, hence, function in the delivery of cholesterol to the cholesterol side-chain cleavage complex. while a number of potential protein candidates have been described, there is at present no unequivocal evidence which indicates that they are involved in steroidogenic regulation. we and others have described proteins that are induced in a variety of steroidogenic tissues in response to hormone stimulation and are localized in the mitochondria of these tissues. in an attempt to determine whether these induced proteins may be involved in steroidogenesis, we compared mitochondrial protein profiles in two separate leydig tumor cell line. one cell line, the ma-10 mouse leydig tumor cell line, has a very low basal steroid production, but synthesizes large amounts of progesterone in response to both tropic hormone and camp analog. the other cell line, the r2c rat leydig tumor cell line, produces constitutively large amounts of progesterone, which cannot be increased further with hormone stimulation. two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis profiles of newly synthesized mitochondrial proteins demonstrated that four 30-kda proteins are induced in response to hormonal stimulation in ma-10 cells. further, it was shown that proteins identical to these induced proteins are present constitutively in the mitochondria of r2c cells and cannot be further increased with hormone stimulation. these results strongly suggest that the 30-kda mitochondrial proteins shown to be induced in several steroidogenic tissues are involved in the acute regulation of steroid production.
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of nimodipine in acute stroke. trust study group. the value of oral nimodipine 120 mg per day for acute stroke was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre study of 1215 patients. the primary end-point was independence after 6 months, defined as a score of 60 or more on an activities of daily living (adl) scale, the barthel index. patients were entered into the trial if they were aged over 40, became hemiparetic in the previous 48 h, were conscious, were able to swallow, and had been living independently before the stroke. at 6 months, 55% of the nimodipine group and 58% of the placebo group were independent, the odds ratio for independence on nimodipine being 0.88 (95% confidence limits 0.70-1.10). for mortality the odds ratio with nimodipine was 1.22 (95% confidence limits 0.95-1.57). adl and neurological scores also suggested delayed recovery in the nimodipine group at 3 weeks. the results do not support the case for oral nimodipine therapy 120 mg per day starting within 48 h of the stroke, for patients with acute stroke.
u1 small nuclear rna plays a direct role in the formation of a rev-regulated human immunodeficiency virus env mrna that remains unspliced. rev-regulated expression of hiv-1 envelope proteins from a simian virus 40 late replacement vector was found to be dependent on the presence of a 5' splice site in the env mrna in spite of the fact that this mrna remains unspliced. when the 5' splice site upstream of the env open reading frame was deleted or mutated, expression of envelope protein was lost. rna analysis of cells transfected with 5' splice-site mutants showed a dramatic reduction in the steady-state levels of env mrna whether or not rev was present. envelope expression could be restored in one of the 5' splice-site mutants by cotransfection with a plasmid expressing a suppressor u1 small nuclear rna containing a compensatory mutation. these experiments show that u1 small nuclear rna plays a direct and essential role in the formation of an unspliced rna that is subject to regulation by rev.
renal cell carcinoma vs. renal oncocytoma. report of a case with overlap features and review of the literature although the salient features of renal oncocytomas and renal cell carcinomas have been discussed in the recent literature, renal masses with features of both entities will present diagnostic difficulty, especially when the cells are diffusely eosinophilic on microscopic examination. a case of a firm, tan, rounded mass replacing the lower pole of the kidney is discussed. the final diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma, granular cell type, was made after multiple sections of the tumor were examined, and after electron microscopy was performed. a thorough search by light microscopy should be made for clear cell foci, necrosis, mitotic activity, and vascular or capsular invasion, features generally accepted as pathognomonic for renal cell carcinoma. cellular and especially nuclear pleomorphism is typically focal or mild in renal oncocytomas. true oncocytic tumors will be packed with mitochondria on electron microscopy; however, granular renal cell carcinomas will contain mitochondria as well as other cellular organelles, lipid, and glycogen. electron microscopy should be performed on tumors suspected of being oncocytomas because eosinophilia on hematoxylin and eosin stain, as demonstrated by this case, is not a predictable measure of mitochondria content. immunoperoxidase staining for vimentin in oncocytomas has recently been shown to be negative, and may offer a method of ruling out oncocytoma in vimentin-positive tumors, pending further studies.
delayed rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk: treatment with therapeutic embolization. fourteen days after removal of an internal jugular catheter inserted prior to renal transplantation, a patient presented with brisk arterial hemorrhage from the insertion site. the hemorrhage, caused by a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk, was controlled by transcatheter embolization with gelatin particles. one year later the patient reported no problems related to the pseudoaneurysm or its management.
simple technique for long term central venous access in the patient with thrombocytopenic carcinoma. a technique for the insertion of a central venous access device in the patient with thrombocytopenia is described. using the seldinger technique, a wire is placed into the internal jugular vein. a catheter tunneled from the anterior part of the chest is inserted through a peel-away sheath into the central venous system. the incision is then closed.
hypertensive heart disease in african-americans. hypertensive heart disease is a frequent complication in hypertensive african-americans because of inadequate high blood pressure control. moreover, african-americans may be predisposed to develop lvh earlier in life and more readily than caucasians, and it may be more malignant. the appearance of both lvh and congestive heart failure are ominous developments in individual patients, and early detection of lvh is mandatory for adequate management and reversal of this complication, if possible. additional research is needed, and new, sensitive tools for detecting lvh will accelerate such studies. further investigations are also needed on the reversibility of lvh, preferred antihypertensive agents for accomplishing reversal, and whether expected benefits result.
neurobehavioral outcome 1 year after severe head injury. experience of the traumatic coma data bank. the outcome 1 year after they had sustained a severe head injury was investigated in patients who were admitted to the neurosurgery service at one of four centers participating in the traumatic coma data bank (tcdb). of 300 eligible survivors, the quality of recovery 1 year after injury was assessed by at least the glasgow outcome scale (gos) in 263 patients (87%), whereas complete neuropsychological assessment was performed in 127 (42%) of the eligible survivors. the capacity of the patients to undergo neuropsychological testing 1 year after injury was a criterion of recovery as reflected by a significant relationship to neurological indices of acute injury and the gos score at the time of hospital discharge. the neurobehavioral data at 1 year after injury were generally comparable across the four samples of patients and characterized by impairment of memory and slowed information processing. in contrast, language and visuospatial ability recovered to within the normal range. the lowest postresuscitation glasgow coma scale (gcs) score and pupillary reactivity were predictive of the 1-year gos score and neuropsychological performance. the lowest gcs score was especially predictive of neuropsychological performance 1 year postinjury in patients who had at least one nonreactive pupil following resuscitation. notwithstanding limitations related to the scope of the tcdb and attrition in follow-up material, the results indicate a characteristic pattern of neurobehavioral recovery from severe head injury and encourage the use of neurobehavioral outcome measurements in clinical trials to evaluate interventions for head-injured patients.
ichthyosis, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, impaired neutrophil chemotaxis, growth retardation, and metaphyseal dysplasia (shwachman syndrome). report of a case with extensive skin lesions (clinical, histological, and ultrastructural findings). the shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, growth retardation, and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia. clinical, morphological, and ultrastructural studies, as well as hair analysis, were performed in a patient with shwachman's syndrome and severe ichthyosis. clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities. the hair was scanty and short on the scalp, in the eyelashes, and in the eyebrows. the nails were hyperkeratotic. morphologic findings were slight, regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis. the granular layer was thickened. the papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration. the most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes. hair analysis revealed no abnormalities; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal.
partial cytochrome b deficiency and generalized dystonia. an 18-year-old female had clinical features of idiopathic torsion dystonia with bilateral hypodense putaminal lesions on computed tomography. mitochondrial encephalomyopathy was suspected because of persistent lactic acidemia and myopathy. studies of oxidative metabolism on isolated skeletal muscle mitochondria revealed partial cytochrome b deficiency indicating a defect in the cytochrome b- c1 complex. this finding represents a unique, multisystem syndrome of progressive dystonia, putaminal degeneration, myopathy, and mitochondrial cytochrome b deficiency. mitochondrial metabolic disorders may be a cause of torsion dystonia when other known associated factors are absent.
mortality among workers at oak ridge national laboratory. evidence of radiation effects in follow-up through 1984 [published erratum appears in jama 1991 aug 7;266(5):657] white men hired at the oak ridge (tenn) national laboratory between 1943 and 1972 were followed up for vital status through 1984 (n = 8318, 1524 deaths). relatively low mortality compared with that in us white men was observed for most causes of death, but leukemia mortality was elevated in the total cohort (63% higher, 28 deaths) and in workers who had at some time been monitored for internal radionuclide contamination (123% higher, 16 deaths). median cumulative dose of external penetrating radiation was 1.4 msv; 638 workers had cumulative doses above 50 msv (5 rem). after accounting for age, birth cohort, a measure of socioeconomic status, and active worker status, external radiation with a 20-year exposure lag was related to all causes of death (2.68% increase per 10 msv) primarily due to an association with cancer mortality (4.94% per 10 msv). studies of this population through 1977 did not find radiation-cancer mortality associations, and identical analyses using the shorter follow-up showed that associations with radiation did not appear until after 1977. the radiation-cancer dose response is 10 times higher than estimates from the follow-up of survivors of the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki, japan, but similar to one previous occupational study. dose-response estimates are subject to uncertainties due to potential problems, including measurement of radiation doses and cancer outcomes. longer-term follow-up of this and other populations with good measurement of protracted low-level exposures will be critical to evaluating the generalizability of the results reported herein.
blunt trauma of the abdomen in children. abdominal trauma in children is usually due to motor vehicle accidents or falls, but child abuse is also a common cause. injuries to the small intestine are particularly worrisome because symptoms may not appear for hours, days, or even weeks. this can cause significant difficulty for the investigator trying to determine when an injury occurred, or who may have caused it.
advantages of beta blockers versus antiarrhythmic agents and calcium antagonists in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. patients who have sustained greater than or equal to 1 myocardial infarcts are at high risk for sudden death or reinfarction; the risk is highest for those with lowest ventricular ejection fraction, continuing myocardial ischemia and asymptomatic high-density and complex premature ventricular contractions. at present, beta blockers when given prophylactically are the only agents that reduce the incidence of sudden death and reinfarction in survivors of myocardial infarction (mi) in the first 2 years. the beneficial effect was shown to correlate with a reduction in heart rate, the effect being absent or deleterious with beta blockers with marked sympathomimetic activity. the effects of beta blockers on ventricular fibrillation appeared to be dissociated from those on premature ventricular contractions. trials with calcium antagonists indicate that these drugs had no effect or increased the mortality rate. the divergent effect of beta blockers and calcium antagonists is unexplained but may be due in part to a lack of bradycardiac effect of calcium antagonists; there were no differences in effect among different calcium antagonists. data from trials involving class i antiarrhythmic agents indicate that agents acting by depression of cardiac conduction are either devoid of effect or produce a modest increase in mortality. results of the cardiac arrhythmia suppression trial, employing the newer class i agents flecainide and encainide, were used to determine whether the suppression of premature ventricular contractions in the survivors of acute mi reduces mortality. flecainide and encainide suppressed premature ventricular contractions greater than 80%, but resulted in an increased mortality rate undoubtedly due to a marked proarrhythmic effect. whether these data can be extrapolated to all class i agents is uncertain. preliminary data with class iii antiarrhythmic agents suggest that these agents, especially amiodarone, similarly to beta blockers, have the potential to reduce mortality in survivors of mi. evolving data suggest that in the secondary prevention of morbid events in the survivors of acute mi, the focus must shift away from antiarrhythmic agents that delay conduction and toward beta blockers and antifibrillatory actions resulting from a prolongation of refractoriness.
management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps. our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection, either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer, is presented. a total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection. all wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap. fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing, eight of whom had no complications. only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients, with only one patient failing to heal. our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem.
assessment of proplast-teflon disc replacements [published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 feb;49(2):220] this retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which proplast-teflon (vitek inc, houston, tx) replacements were used. among the problems noted were pain, malocclusion, restricted opening, and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa.
adult hepatic fibropolycystic disease presenting as obstructive jaundice. obstructive jaundice caused by compression of the common hepatic duct by a simple hepatic cyst in a 31 year old europid man is reported. the jaundice and duct compression resolved after percutaneous aspiration of the cyst under ultrasound direction and the patient has been well for 12 months.
meningeal involvement in bence jones multiple myeloma. a case of bence jones kappa multiple myeloma with meningeal involvement in a 64-year-old woman is presented. three years after the diagnosis of multiple myeloma, gait disturbances developed followed by visual disorders and impaired consciousness. a lumbar puncture revealed numerous atypical plasma cells in the cerebrospinal fluid. craniospinal irradiation and intrathecal injections of methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisolone were effective for a short period. at autopsy, the leptomeninges were infiltrated diffusely with atypical plasma cells. a review of the literature showed that multiple myeloma with meningeal involvement is accompanied frequently by circulating atypical plasma cells or plasma cell leukemia. meningeal involvement is a rare complication and shows poor prognosis in cases of multiple myeloma.
reliability of six pulse oximeters in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. six pulse oximeters with finger probes were studied in three groups of 17 hypoxemic patients with copd aged 50 to 75 years. transcutaneous arterial oxygen saturation (spo2) was measured with the nellcor n101 (oximeter 1a), the ohmeda biox iii (oximeter lb), the nellcor n200 (oximeter 2a), the critikon oxyshuttle (oximeter 2b), the radiometer oxi100 (oximeter 3a), and the ohmeda biox 3700 (oximeter 3b). the spo2 was compared with sao2 measured in simultaneously withdrawn samples of arterial blood (radiometer osm2) at three 20-minute steady-state levels of fio2 ranging from 0.21 to 0.40 (sao2, 62 to 100 percent). the bias (mean spo2-sao2 difference) and the error in precision (sd of the differences) were both below 4 percent for instruments 1a and 1b and remained below 1.2 and 3 percent, respectively, for the others. a good agreement between spo2 and sao2, as reflected by the bartko intraclass correlation coefficient, was observed in instruments 2a, 3a, and 3b. the individual relationships between spo2-sao2 differences and sao2 appeared to be linear and parallel. with four instruments (1a, 1b, 2a, and 2b), the mean slope of this relationship was negative, showing a systematic instrumental error: the lower the sao2, the larger the overestimation of sao2. the scattering of the data (precision) principally reflects a subject source of error. in most instruments a technical adjustment could greatly improve instrumental errors and accuracy. the correction of the errors due to between-subject variation would require a system of calibration adjustable by the users to each individual.
nipple discharge in women. is it cause for concern? nipple discharge is one of the most common breast complaints in women. galactorrhea (milky discharge) may occur during pregnancy or breast-feeding or as a result of drug therapy, hypothyroidism, or hyperthyroidism. nonbloody discharge is most common and is usually benign. bloody discharge should be considered a sign of cancer until proved otherwise. persistent galactorrhea and nonbloody discharge can be treated by transecting the mammary ducts. simple mastectomy may be appropriate in patients with persistent bloody discharge who have a strong family history of breast cancer.
flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries. study objective: to determine the efficacy of flexion-extension (f/e) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients. design: we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had f/e views performed after a routine cervical-spine series (three views) was obtained in the emergency department. interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the f/e views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter. the charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of f/e views, an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability, or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies. setting: an urban level i adult trauma center. measurements: the interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal, abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation, or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation. the f/e views were categorized as stable, unstable, or uninterpretable. results: cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by f/e views in 11 of the 141 patients (8%), four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films. three of these four patients required surgical stabilization. prolonged neck pain (more than 24 hours), an initially abnormal spine series, and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of f/e views. ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history; the remaining patient was intoxicated. no neurologic sequelae resulted from performing f/e studies. there was one false-negative f/e study, which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ed. conclusion: we believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant f/e views.
acinic cell carcinoma. clinicopathologic review. the authors reviewed 90 cases of acinic cell carcinoma treated at the mayo clinic to assess long-term follow-up and to study features predictive of disease progression. sixty-three patients (55 females and 35 males) were seen for primary treatment; 27 had recurrent disease when first evaluated. histologically, these tumors were composed of serous acinar cells and intercalated duct-type cells. morphologic patterns included solid, microcystic, follicular, and papillary-cystic. all patients were followed for at least 10 years or until death. of the primary treatment group, 44% had local recurrence, 19% had metastasis, and 25% died of disease. disease first recurred locally up to 30 years after presentation and resulted in death after as many as 38 years. poor prognostic features include pain or fixation; gross invasion; microscopic features of desmoplasia, atypia, or increased mitotic activity; and excision as initial treatment. neither morphologic pattern nor cell composition was a predictive feature.
fibrosarcoma of the head and neck. the ucla experience. between 1955 and 1987, twenty-nine patients with the diagnosis of fibrosarcoma of the head and neck were seen at the ucla medical center. follow-up ranged from 15 to 192 months, with a median of 66 months. absolute 5-year survival was 62% (13/21). five of 17 patients treated initially with surgery alone achieved local control and long-term survival. all five had low-grade lesions. five patients received postoperative radiation therapy because of positive surgical margins. three were rendered disease free, and all had low-grade lesions. radiation therapy was used as primary treatment in six patients, four of whom received additional chemotherapy. of these six, two are disease free with longer than 5-year follow-up. surgery with and without adjuvant therapy successfully salvaged 42% (5/12) of the patients with local recurrence. eighty percent (12/15) of the patients with low-grade lesions were ultimately rendered disease free vs only 8% (1/12) of the patients with high-grade histologic features. seventy-two percent (13/18) of the patients with local recurrence were known to have positive surgical margins. sixty-eight percent (13/19) of the patients with recurrent disease had high-grade lesions and/or tumor size larger than 5 cm. tumor grade is the most important prognostic factor followed by tumor size and surgical margin status. patients with low-grade lesions and adequate surgical margins are treated well with surgery alone. patients with high-grade lesions or positive surgical margins should receive adjuvant treatment.
dexamethasone inhibits the induction of monocyte chemotactic-activating factor production by il-1 or tumor necrosis factor. recently purified and molecularly cloned monocyte chemotactic and activating factor (mcaf) may play a major role in recruiting and activating monocytes in the inflammatory process. we examined the effects of a potent anti-inflammatory agent, dexamethasone (dxs), on the production of this factor. over a wide range of concentrations (10(-5) to 10(-8) m), dxs inhibited the production of mcaf at the mrna and protein level in a human fibrosarcoma cell line, which was stimulated with either il-1 or tnf-alpha. we examined the turn-over of synthesized mcaf mrna that showed dxs decreased the stability of mcaf mrna. furthermore, the addition of actinomycin d and cycloheximide abolished this effect of dxs, indicating that de novo mrna and protein synthesis were required for this process. in addition, a nuclear run-off analysis revealed that dxs also inhibited the transcription of il-1- or tnf-activated mcaf genes. therefore, both the destabilization of mcaf mrna and the inhibition of transcription of the gene contribute to the decrease in the mcaf mrna steady state level by dxs.
approach to diagnosis of meningitis. cerebrospinal fluid evaluation. csf evaluation is the single most important aspect of the laboratory diagnosis of meningitis. analysis of the csf abnormalities produced by bacterial, mycobacterial, and fungal infections may greatly facilitate diagnosis and direct initial therapy. basic studies of csf that should be performed in all patients with meningitis include measurement of pressure, cell count and white cell differential; determination of glucose and protein levels; gram's stain; and culture. in bacterial meningitis, limulus lysate assay and tests to identify bacterial antigens may allow rapid diagnosis. where there is strong suspicion of tuberculous or fungal meningitis, csf should also be submitted for acid-fast stain, india ink preparation, and cryptococcal antigen; unless contraindicated by increased intracranial pressure, large volumes (up to 40-50 ml) should be obtained for culture. if a history of residence in the southwest is elicited, complement-fixing antibodies to coccidioides immitis should also be ordered. newer tests based on immunologic methods or gene amplification techniques hold great promise for diagnosis of infections caused by organisms that are difficult to culture or present in small numbers. despite the great value of lumbar puncture in the diagnosis of meningitis, injudicious use of the procedure may result in death from brain herniation. lumbar puncture should be avoided if focal neurologic findings suggest concomitant mass lesion, as in brain abscess, and lumbar puncture should be approached with great caution if meningitis is accompanied by evidence of significant intracranial hypertension. institution of antibiotic therapy for suspected meningitis should not be delayed while neuroradiologic studies are obtained to exclude abscess or while measures are instituted to reduce intracranial pressure.
e1a-dependent expression of adenovirus genes in otf963 embryonal carcinoma cells: role of e1a-induced differentiation. some undifferentiated f9 embryonal carcinoma cells allow adenovirus genes to be expressed independently of the e1a oncogene normally required for their activation; this has been attributed to a cellular equivalent of e1a in f9 cells. however, transcription of all early genes was low in undifferentiated otf963 embryonic carcinoma cells during the first 48 hr after infection with adenovirus type 5 (ad5). transcription then increased to about the level seen 16 hr after infection of cells induced to differentiate by retinoic acid (ra) (referred to as ra-df9 cells), but this increase did not occur in cells infected by the e1a deletion mutant dl312. addition of e1a in trans, or of ra, had no immediate effect on viral transcription in otf963 cells, but viral transcription increased about 48 hr after these additions. ad5 induced transcription of several differentiation-specific genes in otf963 cells with about the same kinetics as their induction by ra. these genes were superinduced in ra-df9 cells by camp or infection by adenovirus. we suggest the small amount of e1a produced early in infection of otf963 cells activates cellular genes, some of which are differentiation specific and required for efficient transcription of viral genes, so that e1a both induces and is induced by differentiation. the simple hypothesis of a cellular equivalent to e1a does not adequately explain the complex interactions between viral and cellular genes in otf963 embryonic carcinoma cells.
multifocal colitis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea. an outbreak of a chronic diarrheal syndrome was detected between may and august 1987 in rural henderson county, illinois. seventy-two individuals were affected. epidemiological studies performed by the center for disease control implicated the water of a local restaurant as the source of the outbreak. five patients underwent a comprehensive evaluation. their mean age was 51 years, and they had a mean of 12 watery stools daily (range, 6-40). detailed microbiological evaluations failed to identify a pathological organism. stool studies showed a mean stool weight of 392 g/24 h with a normal fat content. results of all biochemical studies of serum were normal. chemical analysis of stool water suggested a secretory diarrhea. colonoscopy revealed patchy erythema, and light microscopic examination of colonic biopsy specimens revealed multifocal areas of acute inflammation in the superficial mucosa in 4 of 5 patients. electron microscopy of the affected areas revealed no viral particles. after 2 years, all of our patients continued to experience chronic diarrhea. one patient agreed to a follow-up colonoscopy; histological abnormalities of the colonic mucosa persisted after 2 years. we speculate that an infectious process arising from a contaminated water system induced a chronic, secretory diarrhea characterized by multifocal colitis. this histological abnormality may serve as a marker of an infectious, chronic diarrhea.
the role of lasers in hemorrhoidectomy. eighty-eight patients who received treatment for hemorrhoids were randomized into two groups. group a received the nd-yag laser phototherapy for internal hemorrhoid combined with the co2 laser for external hemorrhoid. group b was treated with closed ferguson hemorrhoidectomy. the need of narcotic injections for pain relief was 11 percent in group a vs. 56 percent in group b (p less than 0.001). the incidence of postoperative urinary retention was 7 percent in group a, vs. 39 percent in group b (p less than 0.05). no enema was required postoperatively in group a, vs. 9 percent in group b; 84 percent of the patients in group a were discharged on the second postoperative day, vs. 83 percent of the patients in group b discharged on the fifth postoperative day. the cost was 20 percent less in the former group. the overall complications in both groups were insignificant in difference, except prolonged wound healing in group a was noted. one year follow-up showed satisfactory results. laser treatment is considered one of the alternatives to conventional treatment, but the surgeon needs to be aware of laser hazards.
dietary calcium, vascular reactivity, and genetic hypertension in the lyon rat strain. in order to examine the relationship existing between dietary calcium and the development of hypertension, we developed a long-term study in the lyon hypertensive rat strain (lh) and two control strains, the lyon normotensive (ln) and low blood pressure rats (ll) given enriched (hca, 2.5%), deprived (lca, 0.03%) and normal (nca, 0.6%) calcium diets. evolution of body weight, systolic blood pressure (bp), plasma calcium and magnesium was monitored from 4 to 23 weeks of age. total cardiovascular reactivity and contractile response of isolated aorta to norepinephrine were measured at 23 weeks of age. lh rats on hca diet failed to develop hypertension (bp less than 150 mm hg) whereas lh rats on lca diet exhibited higher blood pressure levels than their controls fed the nca diet. moreover, in ln rats hca diet slightly decreased bp whereas lca had no effect. in the ll rats, on the contrary, only lca diet slightly increased bp. in vivo responsiveness to ne was significantly higher in lh compared to ll and ln rats fed a nca diet. hca and lca diets both induced a significant decrease in this response in lh rats. hca diet increased the response in ln rats but decreased it in ll. in contrast, at the same age, the in vitro contractile response of isolated aorta to ne was significantly decreased in lh compared to ln and ll rats receiving nca diet. moreover in lh and ln rats on hca diet the contractile response was markedly increased but no significant difference was observed with lca diet.
adenovirus colitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. adenovirus was identified in colonic tissue by transmission electron microscopy or culture in 5 of 67 (7.4%) homosexual men seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (51 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) with diarrhea. colonoscopy showed the mucosa to be normal in 3 cases and mildly inflamed in 2. light microscopy showed foci of mucosal necrosis that contained chronic inflammatory cells and degenerating and necrotic epithelial cells with amphophilic nuclear inclusions. by transmission electron microscopy, hexagonal viral particles characteristic of adenovirus were identified within the inclusions. only 1 patient was concomitantly infected by a second potential enteric pathogen. it was concluded that adenovirus, an uncommon enteric pathogen in immunocompetent adults, causes intestinal pathology and may be associated with diarrheal illness in persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
prognosticators of second-look laparotomy findings in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. prognosticators of outcome at second-look laparotomy (sll) were evaluated in 49 patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma undergoing sll. residual tumor volume was found to be the most significant prognosticator of outcome, with initial tumor stage being of secondary importance. grade of tumor played no role in outcome at sll. the results of the study led us to the conclusion that the second-look procedure may be safely omitted in stage i patients. the importance of optimal cytoreduction during primary surgery was stressed.
renal cell metastases versus liver hemangioma. we present the case of a man with presumed metastatic renal cell carcinoma based on radiologic examination and weight loss, who refused treatment of any kind for one year. a surgical exploration to control hematuria revealed a stage i tumor.
localization and peptide content of endocrine pancreatic tumors. endocrine pancreatic tumors contain and frequently secret neurohormonal peptides. this phenomenon can be used as a diagnostic and classifying tool. this study analyzes 31 patients operated on because of an endocrine pancreatic tumor, including the diagnostic procedures and the localization methods. in 15 insulinoma cases only 6 patients had a positive arteriography, while all 11 selective pancreatic vein samplings were positive. the immunoreactivity showed that, besides insulin, most tumors also contained other peptides. of four gastrinoma cases the arteriography was positive in three, but the selective vein sampling localized the tumor in all. the tumor's content of peptides showed mixed patterns. in the four glucagonomas, the arteriography was positive in all and the venous sampling performed in three of the cases also was positive. in five pancreatic polypeptide-containing tumors (pp-omas) the arteriography was positive in four and sampling performed in two was positive in both. in the pp-omas the peptide pattern showed that these tumors frequently contain several peptides. we used selective pancreatic vein sampling in 21 cases with positive result in all. in the cases in which arteriography was negative, the sampling results helped the surgeon to find the tumor. the peptide pattern in the tumors varied greatly and most tumors were multihormonal.
rectovulvar fistula in a child secondary to an unusual foreign body. foreign bodies in the female genital tract are well recognized as a cause of pain, discharge, secretions, and infection. in the small child, the presence of a vaginal discharge is usually associated with either a common object which has been inserted or sexual abuse complicated by a sexually transmitted disease. a 3-year-old child presented with a recurrent labial secretion and drainage due to an unusual foreign body. it was only during a second operation that the possibility of a foreign body was entertained, and diagnostic testing was begun. a third operation permitted removal of the foreign body, a large bone probably of animal origin. the fistula tract was closed after a colostomy was performed. this represents the first reported case of a rectovulvar fistula not of a congenital nature.
accelerated arteriosclerosis in heart transplant recipients is associated with a t-lymphocyte-mediated endothelialitis. accelerated arteriosclerosis has emerged as a major life-threatening complication in long-term survivors of heart transplantation. it has been proposed that accelerated arteriosclerosis is an immune-mediated complication of rejection. we observed a striking endothelialitis in the coronary arteries of two explanted hearts obtained from patients with severe transplant-related accelerated arteriosclerosis. this finding prompted us to review the pathologic changes in the coronary arteries of 23 autopsied patients who had received heart transplants. the infiltrate in these vessels was characterized using immunohistochemical stains for lymphocytes (cd45), macrophages (mac-387), t lymphocytes (cd45ro), b lymphocytes (l-26), and smooth muscle cells (actin). in addition, a full panel of monoclonal antibodies was used on the fresh-frozen tissue available from one of the two explanted hearts. ten of the eleven recipients with accelerated arteriosclerosis had a moderate to marked lymphocytic endothelialitis compared to 3 of 14 without transplant-related arteriosclerosis (p less than 0.005). immunohistochemical staining of the paraffin-embedded material demonstrated that most of the lymphocytes in the subendothelial space of these vessels were t lymphocytes and that this infiltrate was associated with an accumulation of macrophages and a proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the intima. in the explanted heart from which fresh-frozen tissue was available for more detailed cell typing, the t cells marked predominantly as cytotoxic t lymphocytes (cd8+, cd2+). these results suggest that accelerated arteriosclerosis may be mediated, in part, by a cytotoxic t-lymphocyte-directed endothelialitis.
a three-dimensional system for long-term culture of human colorectal adenomas. studies of the adenoma-carcinoma sequence in the colon and rectum have been limited by the paucity of experimental models of adenoma growth and progression. progress recently was reported in the development of monolayer culture systems. the principal objective of this study was to develop a primary culture system for colorectal adenomas that would simulate three-dimensional in vivo growth. we used a calcium alginate encapsulation technique that was previously described for established tumor cell lines. briefly, fresh resected specimens were washed, minced into small multicellular particles called microadenomas, and encapsulated in 1% calcium alginate pellets. the pellets were maintained in minimum essential medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum at 37 degrees c in humidified atmosphere of 95% air, 5% co2. ten of eleven adenomas, including six tubular, three tubulovillous, and one villous have been successfully cultured for 34 to 162 days. cell viability was confirmed histologically by light and electron microscopy. the cells were characterized as epithelial by morphologic features and ultrastructural studies, which showed a high degree of cellular differentiation, including villous brush borders and many desmosomes. both tubular and villuslike structures have been observed in vitro, correlating in some cases with the histology of the parent adenoma. measurements of proliferative activity by [3h]thymidine autoradiography or immunohistochemical staining with the monoclonal antibody ki-67 demonstrated growth fractions of 9% to 25%. a simple, highly efficient primary culture system was developed for the long-term maintenance of adenomas that promotes three-dimensional growth patterns and growth rates analogous to those seen in vivo. this model provides an opportunity to develop an experimental system for longitudinal studies of pathologic and molecular parameters in adenoma progression to carcinoma.
patients at risk for cardiac death late after aortic valve replacement. a total of 100 patients aged 24 to 78 years were screened prospectively a mean of 71 months after aortic valve replacement for the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh) on the ecg (estes scores greater than or equal to 5.0) and for repetitive ventricular premature beats vpbs greater than or equal to 2 couplets/24 hr) during 24-hour holter monitoring. during the subsequent 41-month follow-up (range 10 to 50 months), the yearly cardiac mortality rate was 1.3% in patients with lvh, 2.9% in patients with vpbs, and 8.0% in patients with lvh plus vpbs but only 0.6% when none of these factors was present (p less than 0.05 chi 2 test). the patient groups did not differ with regard to age, time elapsed since operation, underlying valve lesion, and coronary artery disease. both lvh and vpbs occurred more frequently in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. we conclude that after aortic valve replacement cardiac mortality is markedly increased in patients with lvh and repetitive vpbs, since they are noninvasive markers of left ventricular dysfunction.
extrageniculate vision in hemianopic humans: saccade inhibition by signals in the blind field. the functional competence of extrageniculate visual pathways in hemianopic humans was demonstrated by showing that distractor signals in the blind half of the visual field could inhibit saccades toward targets in the intact visual field. this inhibitory effect of unseen distractors in patients occurred only when distractors were presented in the temporal half of the visual field, was specific to oculomotor responses, and did not occur in normal subjects. these results show that a peripheral visual signal activates retinotectal pathways to prime the oculomotor system and that these pathways can mediate orienting behavior in hemianopic humans.
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii (p. carinii) in aids patients is uncommon, and is often described only at postmortem examination. although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen, p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described. despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia, p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver. we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities. we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease.
comparison of i.m. ketorolac trometamol and morphine sulphate for pain relief after cholecystectomy. i.m. ketorolac trometamol 30 mg was compared with morphine sulphate 10 mg after cholecystectomy in a double-blind, multiple dose, randomized study of 100 patients. assessments of pain were made immediately after operation (day 1), and the next morning (day 2). pain intensity (verbal response score and visual analogue scale) was recorded before injection and then over a 6-h period. pain relief was assessed also. the effect of ketorolac on operative blood loss and platelet function was examined. time to commencing oral intake and the duration of administration of i.v. fluids were recorded. adverse events were noted. ketorolac produced significantly less analgesia than morphine on day 1, but on day 2 the two drugs produced a similar effect. blood loss was not increased by ketorolac, although platelet function was impaired. repeated i.m. administration of ketorolac did not produce any serious adverse effects.
clinicopathologic and flow cytometric dna study of medullary thyroid carcinoma. sixty-one patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma were investigated to establish relationships between the neoplasm's dna content, other clinicopathologic factors, and patient survival (at least 5 years' follow-up). there were 26 (42.6%) familial and 35 (57.4%) sporadic carcinomas. forty-two neoplasms (68.8%) were diploid and 19 (31.2%) were aneuploid by flow cytometric assessment. in univariate analysis, age, hereditary background, dna content, calcitonin immunoreactivity, and type of surgery were strong predictors of clinical outcomes. in multivariate regression analysis, none of these factors was an independent prognosticator. patients' gender, clinical stage, histologic subtype, and amyloid content of the tumor did not influence survival.
severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis advancing to gradual cessation with hyperbaric oxygen. we report a case of a male patient suffering from a severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis which gradually ceased with hyperbaric oxygen. we discuss the mechanisms of chronic radiation injury and the effect of the hyperbaric oxygen. this therapy is proposed as an alternative to surgical intervention for this abnormality.
recognition and embolic potential of intraaortic atherosclerotic debris. atherosclerotic disease of the thoracic aorta is common in the elderly and patients with clinical coronary artery disease. although embolization can occur from atherosclerotic debris within the thoracic aorta, it is not commonly considered in the differential diagnosis of the source of a systemic embolism. in the current study, the prevalence, clinical significance and embolic potential of intraaortic atherosclerotic debris as detected by transesophageal echocardiography was determined. intraaortic atherosclerotic debris was identified in 38 (7%) of 556 patients undergoing transesophageal echocardiography. an embolic event occurred among 11 (31%) of the 36 study patients with intraaortic atherosclerotic debris. the incidence of an embolic event was higher when the debris was pedunculated and highly mobile (8 [73%] of 11 patients) than when it was layered and immobile (3 [12%] of 25 patients) (p less than 0.002). among 15 patients undergoing an invasive procedure of the aorta, the incidence of embolism was 27%. in conclusion, in a patient with an embolic event, the thoracic aorta should be considered as a potential source. transesophageal echocardiography can reliably detect intraaortic atherosclerotic debris, and when it is identified, an invasive aortic procedure should be avoided if possible.
mixed glioblastoma multiforme and sarcoma. a clinicopathologic study of 26 radiation therapy oncology group cases. twenty-six cases are reported of gliosarcoma (gs) retrieved from a series of 1479 glioblastomas (gbm) that were part of five consecutive, randomized phase ii or iii malignant glioma protocols initiated by the radiation therapy oncology group between 1974 and 1983. the clinicopathologic features of these 26 cases, including actuarial survival times, were compared with the remaining 1453 gbm. the minimal qualitative and quantitative histologic criteria required to diagnose gs are presented. in most cases the sarcomatous component was a malignant fibrous histiocytoma; a minority were fibrosarcoma. no significant differences between gs and gbm were found with regard to age, sex, pretreatment karnofsky performance status, tumor location, size, median survival (8.3 and 9.6 months, respectively), and actuarial survival. none of the treatment regimens, which included various combinations of radiation therapy and chemotherapy, improved the survival of gs over gbm. selective involvement of the temporal lobe by gs was not found, and the frequency of gs was determined to be only 1.8% of all gbm.
major histocompatibility complex genes and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus. susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with major histocompatibility complex (mhc)--encoded genes. we have used nucleotide sequence analysis to better define the disease-associated mhc alleles. hla-dr2, dqw1, and especially the rare allele dq beta 1. azh confer high relative risk (rr = 14) for lupus nephritis in a caucasian population of patients. pilot studies using historical controls suggest that these genes also confer a high risk in non-caucasian ethnic groups (rr = 24-78). we have found that dr4 is significantly decreased in patients with lupus nephritis. fifty percent of the patients with lupus nephritis had either the dq beta 1.1, the dq beta 1.azh, or the dq beta 1.9 alleles. these alleles share amino acid residues that have been predicted to be the contact points for antigen and the t cell receptor. these hla alleles appear to have a direct role in the predisposition to lupus nephritis, whereas dr4 may have a "protective" effect.
helium-oxygen mixture in the treatment of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients. objective: to assess the effectiveness of a helium-oxygen mixture in reducing post-extubation stridor in children hospitalized for burns or trauma. design: randomized, controlled crossover trial. setting: harborview medical center's burn and trauma icus from march to september 1989. patients: children less than 15 yr old who were electively extubated and had symptoms of postextubation stridor, but required less than or equal to 35% oxygen. intervention: each treatment (helium-oxygen and oxygen-supplemented room air) was given in random order for 15 min after extubation. measurements: respiratory distress was assessed by a physician blinded to treatment order using a standard stridor score and clinical judgment. results: there were 13 children with 15 extubations; seven (47%) of 15 patients required subsequent treatment with racemic epinephrine or reintubation. stridor scores were lower with helium-oxygen than with oxygen-supplemented room air (2.8 vs. 3.7, p less than .005), and helium-oxygen was preferred in eight of nine trials in which one treatment was clearly favored by the physician. conclusion: because helium-oxygen therapy can reduce stridor scores and is clinically preferred by physicians caring for stridorous children, it may be a useful adjunctive therapy in pediatric trauma patients with postextubation stridor.
seizure outcome from anterior and complete corpus callosotomy. eighty patients underwent anterior corpus callosotomy for treatment of generalized seizures. the patients' mean age was 18.3 years (range 4 to 53 years); the mean age at seizure onset was 5.27 years (range 0.1 to 27 years). the mean intelligence quotient (iq) of 41 testable patients was 71.12 (range less than 30 to 114). the seizure outcome was as follows: 13% were seizure-free, 65% were significantly improved, and 22% were unchanged. ten patients subsequently underwent a second operation to complete the callosal sectioning which resulted in additional seizure improvement in only five of them. five complications resulted from 90 operations: two epidural hematomas, one delayed subdural hematoma, one bone-flap infection, and one postcallosotomy disconnection syndrome; two patients died. a younger age at onset of seizures, a higher iq, and generalized tonic-clonic, atonic, complex-partial, and mixed seizure types were associated with improved seizure outcome.
long-term follow-up of cemented total hip arthroplasty in rheumatoid arthritis. seventy-five primary cemented total hip arthroplasties (thas) were performed in 53 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. all patients were followed for an average of 7.4 years, unless their prosthetic hips failed before that time. clinical evaluation was based on a 10-point maximum rating scale, and ratings for pain, walking, function, and activity improved from preoperative values to the most recent follow-up examination. revision tha was performed for aseptic acetabular loosening in four hips, and femoral loosening in one hip. sepsis occurred in another four hips. complications of wound healing occurred in 14 hips. roentgenographic evidence of loosening was seen in six acetabular components, in three femoral components, and in the femoral and acetabular component of one hip; none of these hips have as yet required revision tha. the kaplan-meier survivorship analysis revealed a 93% survival probability at seven years, which fell to 77% at 12 years in these patients. a trend was that younger, larger patients had increased failure and component loosening rates. cemented primary tha has been a satisfactory operation in the rheumatoid patient. the relatively high rate of wound healing problems and sepsis may be due to the systemic immune nature of rheumatoid arthritis; however, 25% of these prosthetic hips either failed or are at risk for future failure. thus, improved techniques are still necessary to increase the long-term success of tha in the rheumatoid patient.
pain in children. the assessment and management of children's pain is a topic that has received a great deal of attention since the late 1970s. nurse researchers have played a dominant role in all areas of pediatric pain relief and likely will continue to do so. there are currently a number of pediatric pain assessment instruments developed that are used in selected practice settings, but their use should be extended to document the existence of pediatric pain and its relief. pharmacologic interventions for pediatric pain relief have been hampered by incorrect beliefs about analgesic risks, prescribing and administrating habits, and a virtual explosion of information in the area of analgesics. although nurses have traditionally used nonpharmacologic interventions for pain relief, these methods have not been well researched. continued research efforts in this important area will result in improved diagnosis and management of pediatric pain.
tamm-horsfall autoantibodies in interstitial cystitis. interstitial cystitis presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. although many etiologies, including autoimmunity, have been proposed its pathogenesis remains obscure. tamm-horsfall protein has been identified in the superficial urothelium of patients with interstitial cystitis demonstrating abnormal urothelial permeability. eight patients with a clinical diagnosis of interstitial cystitis underwent cystoscopy and bladder biopsy. characteristic cystoscopic findings were present, and each patient had chronic inflammation and mast cells by histopathological analysis. preoperative anti-tamm-horsfall protein serum antibody (igg) titers were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (range 500 to 8,000, mean 2,750). a control group of 8 patients with a negative urological history also had titers of 0 to 500 (p = 0.02). the humoral response to tamm-horsfall protein in these patients suggests a role for tamm-horsfall protein in interstitial cystitis. measurement of serum tamm-horsfall protein antibody may prove to be useful as a noninvasive diagnostic test in patients with this disease.
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour. catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae. case report. the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue. the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation. emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage. it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now.
use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of cortical blindness in pregnancy. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) may be helpful in the assessment of eclampsia and preeclampsia with central nervous system symptomatology such as cortical blindness. we describe a rare case of complete binocular blindness postpartum with no other neurologic deficits, in which mri abnormalities were undetected on computed tomography. the better soft-tissue discrimination of mri may visualize important but subtle lesions which ultimately may help to explain the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism in such cases.
plasma tumour necrosis factor alpha in cystic fibrosis. plasma tumour necrosis factor alpha (alpha) concentration is increased in acute gram negative sepsis, but the effect of chronic infection on plasma concentrations is unknown. a study was carried out in patients with cystic fibrosis to determine the effect of chronic lung infection with pseudomonas aeruginosa on the plasma concentration of tumour necrosis factor and two other indicators of the inflammatory response, circulating c reactive protein and neutrophil elastase-alpha 1 antiproteinase complex (elastase complex). the concentration of immunoreactive tumour necrosis factor in plasma was greater than the upper 95% confidence interval for healthy subjects (2.6 u/ml) on 129 out of 189 occasions in 14 patients observed for about a year. the increase in tumour necrosis factor was associated with increased circulating c reactive protein and elastase complex. twelve patients with an exacerbation of respiratory symptoms were studied before and after two weeks' treatment with anti-pseudomonal antibiotics. all three indicators of the inflammatory response fell after treatment, though median tumour necrosis factor (4.8 u/ml) and elastase complex (0.41 microgram/ml) concentrations remained above the upper limits for healthy subjects. during a period of clinical stability plasma tumour necrosis factor was increased in 10 of the 12 patients, elastase complex was increased in 10 of the 12, and c reactive protein was increased in seven. increased plasma immunoreactive tumour necrosis factor was a feature of the near continuous inflammatory response to chronic p aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis and may be a factor contributing to the progressive lung destruction seen in this disease.
heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain. male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves, and the development of autonomy was monitored. the deafferented animals were then interbred, always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and, alternatively, relatively low levels of autotomy. offspring were similarly operated and interbred. by the sixth generation of selective breeding, lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high (ha) or consistently low (la). there was no indication of sex linkage. thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury: response thresholds were lower in ha than in la rats. f1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous ha and la animals showed low levels of autotomy, similar to la stock. this indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait. backcrossing f1 hybrids onto the la line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases; backcrossing f1 hybrids onto ha stock yielded about 50% high autotomy and 50% low autotomy. these ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene. taken together, the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait.
the validity of canine platelet aggregometry in predicting vascular graft patency. several laboratories have found canine platelet aggregometry predictive of thrombotic potential in vascular grafts. adenosine diphosphate (adp) is a frequently used agonist, often at unspecified or differing concentrations. this study was designed to evaluate the predictive value of adp-induced platelet aggregometry and the validity of the methodology. platelet aggregometry in response to 2 x 10(-5) m adp was assayed in 70 dogs. twenty-six percent were aggregators, 51% were non-aggregators, and 20% were indeterminant. all dogs were then treated with aspirin and dipyridamole. vascular prostheses were implanted bilaterally (aorto-iliac) and anti-platelet therapy continued for two weeks. dose-response to adp was studied at three concentrations in 20 dogs. at 2 x 10(-5) 1/20 aggregated, at 4 x 10(-5) 3/19 aggregated and at 2 x 10(-4) 15/20 aggregated. time between samples and study was evaluated in 11 dogs, with 2/11 changing from non-aggregator to aggregator at two or three hours. daily reproducibility was studied in 70 dogs, 14 of which changed aggregation status between days. patency was 58/68 (85%) for non-aggregators, 23/34 (68%) for aggregators (p = 0.038). platelet aggregometry has significant predictive value for graft patency but methodology must be specified and standardized.
clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the t(4;11)(q21;q23): a collaborative study of 40 cases. the t(4;11)(q21;q23) chromosomal abnormality was identified in 40 (2%) of 1,986 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). this translocation was associated with female sex (63%), age less than 1 year (60%), hyperleukocytosis (median leukocyte count, 156.5 x 10(9)/l), cd10-/cd19+ b-precursor cell immunophenotype, and myeloid-associated antigen (cd15) expression (63%). nearly all cases had at least some cd24- blast cells. the cd10-/cd15%/cd19+/cd24/+ phenotype was found in 20 of the 32 t(4;11) cases tested. none of the 40 cases had the cytogenetic finding of hyperdiploidy greater than 50, which is a favorable prognostic feature. for clinical comparison, the t(4;11) cases were divided into three groups according to age at diagnosis: less than 1 year (n = 24), 1 to 9 years (n = 8), and greater than or equal to 10 years (n = 8). compared with older patients, infants were more likely to have initial central nervous system leukemia (p = .05) and less likely to have pre-b-cell all (p = .05). complete continuous remission has been maintained in only 7 of 24 infants and 2 of 8 patients aged greater than or equal to 10 years, in contrast to 7 of 8 children in the intermediate age group (p = .048). these findings suggest that the t(4;11) is an adverse prognostic feature in these two age groups.
effects of radiation therapy on skeletal growth in childhood. ionizing radiation was used to treat childhood cancer long before the advent of chemotherapy, and it took little time for physicians to appreciate the deleterious effects it had on skeletal growth. the cause of this complication results predominantly from alteration of chondroblastic activity. this may stem directly from irradiation at the epiphyseal plate or indirectly from irradiation of glands that secrete growth-mediating hormones. the complication can go far beyond the obvious physical afflictions and extend into the psychologic domain, rendering deeper, more permanent scars. presently, many of these effects are predictable, reducible, and treatable without compromising the cure that so often depends on the use of irradiation. because of the complexities of childhood cancer therapy, strategies aimed at diminishing these effects are challenging. it is imperative that these effects be understood so that they can be reduced in current patients and prevented in future patients.
paralysis of saccades and pursuit: clinicopathologic study. we report a 73-year-old patient with an eye movement disorder characterized by paralysis of saccades and pursuit. at autopsy, there were small cortical lesions in the middle frontal gyrus immediately anterior to the precentral gyrus and in the inferior parietal lobule on both sides.
loss of duodenal folds allows diagnosis of unsuspected coeliac disease. we report three patients with coeliac disease who presented without the classic features of malabsorption and who underwent biopsy and were diagnosed only because of the endoscopic finding of the disappearance of kerckring's folds in the descending duodenum. this sign constitutes a new and valid aid for the identification of patients with otherwise unsuspected coeliac disease.
outcome of renal transplantation after urinary diversion and enterocystoplasty: a retrospective, controlled study. a total of 17 patients with intestinal urinary diversion of enterocystoplasty underwent renal transplantation between 1970 and 1988. patient age ranged from 4 to 35 years (mean age 20 years). the patients were divided into 2 groups. in group 1 (10 patients, 2 of whom required retransplantation) the ureter of the transplanted kidney was implanted into an ileal (7) or colonic (1) conduit or enterocystoplasty (2). in group 2 (7 patients, 1 of whom required a second transplant) the diversion was taken down and the transplanted ureter was implanted into the defunctionalized bladder. there were 14 living related and 6 cadaveric kidneys transplanted. graft survival rates were 58 and 87% in groups 1 and 2, respectively, with an over-all rate of 70% (14 of 20 kidneys). there was no statistical difference in the graft survival rate between the 2 groups. the complications in group 1 included ureteroileal anastomotic leak (3 patients), ureteroileal stenosis (1), calculus formation (1), urosepsis (1), hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis (1), and wound infection and dehiscence (1). there were no complications in group 2. renal transplantation into a pre-existing urinary intestinal conduit or augmented bladder does not statistically adversely affect patient or graft survival. however, the complication rate is much higher when the ureter is implanted into an intestinal segment. therefore, it is preferable whenever possible to implant the ureter into the native bladder.
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna. a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia. he later developed hepatic, renal, and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction. at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment, tremor, ataxia, proximal muscle weakness, external ophthalmoplegia, and a pigmentary retinopathy (kearns-sayre syndrome). muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy. analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues, with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb. the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna. both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna; they have not previously been described in the same patient. these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues.
continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs for filling and lining the post-exenteration pelvis. pelvic exenteration has a high complication rate due, in large part, to the extensive raw surfaces and dead space it creates. numerous techniques have been used to control this space and line these surfaces, but none, to date, has proven to be a reliable solution. we investigated the use of continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs as a new "flap" to fill and line the pelvis in 17 patients, and found that our historical complication rate of 44% for pelvic exenteration was reduced to 18%. these reservoirs appear to be an improved method of managing the post-exenteration pelvis.
emergency intraosseous infusion in severely burned children. severely burned patients require rapid administration of large volumes of isotonic fluids. obtaining adequate intravenous (iv) access in children with greater than 70% total body surface area burns may be difficult, time-consuming, and sometimes impossible. this report describes the use of intraosseous infusion technique as a life-saving means of establishing iv access in two severely burned children.
evaluation of women with possible appendicitis using technetium-99m leukocyte scan. the authors evaluated the use of technetium-99m albumin colloid white blood cell (tac-wbc) scan in women with possible appendicitis. one hundred and nine women underwent 110 tac-wbc scans. one woman had a second scan on a separate admission and was considered two individual patients in the analysis. twenty-six women had appendicitis, 10 of whom had a perforated appendix at surgery. the tac-wbc scan was indeterminate (abnormal but nondiagnostic for appendicitis) in 52 women (47%), nine of whom had appendicitis. fifty-eight scans were read as positive or negative for appendiceal pathology. there were 16 true positives, 5 false positives, 36 true negatives, and 1 false negative. the predictive value of a positive scan was 76%, and the predictive value of a negative scan was 97%. the tac-wbc scan was positive in 62% of patients with appendicitis and negative in 43% of the patients without appendicitis resulting in an overall accuracy of 47% in the 109 women. the main value of tac-wbc scan in women with possible appendicitis is its high negative predictive value and the main problem with the tac-wbc scan is its high indeterminate rate.
small cell lung cancer: staging with mr imaging. small cell lung cancer is an aggressive neoplasm; metastases are detected in two-thirds of patients at diagnosis with use of conventional staging, which includes bilateral bone marrow biopsy, bone scintigraphy, and computed tomography (ct) of the head and abdomen. in 25 patients, small cell lung cancer was staged prospectively with both conventional staging and a magnetic resonance (mr) imaging protocol that included 1.5-t mr imaging of the pelvis, abdomen, spine, and brain. according to conventional staging, 14 patients had extensive disease and 11 patients had limited disease; according to staging with mr, 19 patients had extensive disease and six had limited disease. all metastatic disease sites seen with conventional staging were identified on mr images. mr images showed additional metastatic involvement in bone (four patients) and liver (three patients) not detected at conventional staging. a low-attenuation hepatic lesion on a ct scan was identified as a hemangioma on mr images. these preliminary data suggest that small cell lung cancer may be accurately staged with use of a single mr imaging study.
the use of cytochemical procedures in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic myeloid leukemia. the use of wright-giemsa-stained smears alone for the classification of acute leukemias often proves unsatisfactory. some cases of m1, m5a, m7, and l2 are morphologically similar. in such cases, cytochemical stains can provide an inexpensive and available diagnostic tool. m1 is positive for sbb and mpo. m5a is usually nse positive, whereas sbb and mpo are negative. m7 usually is ana esterase, pas, and ap reactive, and do not stain with sbb, mpo, and anb esterases. the megakaryocytic lineage usually is confirmed by ultrastructural cytochemistry for ppo or immunocytochemistry for platelet glycoproteins and von willebrand factor. pas block positivity and ap dotlike reactivity are suggestive of lymphoid lineage. nse stains are useful in differentiating m2 from m4. morphologic and cytochemical techniques also can suggest the presence of certain chromosomal abnormalities such as t(8;21) and inv(16), which may have an influence on prognosis. because not all cases of acute leukemia are easily subtyped by morphology and cytochemistry, immunophenotyping, karyotyping, and molecular analysis of dna and rna of leukemia cells also may be required to define cell lineage.
the caspar microsurgical discectomy and comparison with a conventional standard lumbar disc procedure. the outcome in 119 patients who were operated on with a conventional standard lumbar discectomy procedure was retrospectively compared with that in 299 patients who were operated on with a microsurgical discectomy technique developed in homburg/saar, federal republic of germany by the senior author (w.c.). all patients in this consecutive series had "virgin" lumbar radiculopathy evaluated and operated upon by two experienced surgeons at one institution. determination of the final outcome was made objectively by an impartial third party using identical criteria for both groups, and with a patient self-evaluation form. the study looked at various pertinent aspects of the treatment course and at final outcome. the results in the microsurgical group were significantly favorable: fewer levels were explored: there was less operative blood loss and a decreased incidence of deep venous thrombosis, urinary tract infections, pulmonary emboli, and bladder catheterization; the time to full ambulation, discharge, and return to work was faster: and there was a decrease in change of occupation and a greater percentage of satisfactory final outcomes, as measured both objectively and subjectively. a description of the microsurgical technique used in this study, which differs significantly from existing microdisectomy techniques, is presented. the authors conclude that the microsurgical disectomy technique presented in this study is a safe and effective approach to the treatment of lumbar radiculopathy.
fibrosing mediastinitis with coronary artery involvement. this case report describes a patient with chronic fibrosing mediastinitis involving the entire intrapericardial aorta, innominate artery, and the base of the heart with involvement of the proximal segments of the coronary arteries. this finding was unsuspected before emergency coronary artery bypass grafting. coronary stenosis due to fibrosing mediastinitis is a rare complication of fibrosing mediastinitis. owing to the extensive fibrosis, the normal bypass, cardiac preservation, and revascularization techniques required alteration and are discussed.
managing geriatric arrhythmias, ii: drug selection and use [published erratum appears in geriatrics 1991 jun;46(6):100] age-related impairments in antiarrhythmic drug distribution, metabolism, and excretion may result in accumulation of these potent drugs, increasing the risk of adverse drug reactions and drug interactions in the elderly. these risks are minimized by using modest initial dosage with slow dosage titration. therapeutic drug monitoring is a method which employs antiarrhythmic concentration data and a determination of drug clearance in order to develop an optimal dosing regimen. the pharmacology, indications for use, and adverse effects of currently available antiarrhythmics are reviewed. dosing guidelines for the geriatric population are provided.
(a)typical symptoms during single needle dialysis. in 5 elderly patients, an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis. all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes, bicarbonate dialysate, and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system, on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle. these symptoms were: 1) "angina," resistant to o2 and nitrates, with biochemical stigmata of infarction, but without electrocardiogram (ecg) localization; 2) intractable persistent hypotension, not hypovolemic, lasting 1 or 2 days; 3) esophagal spasms, with inability to swallow solid food. because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis (biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin) due to red cell fragmentation (rcf), we switched these patients from fistula dialysis (a) to central catheter dialysis (b), with the same apperture, blood flow, etc. the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891; the mean ldh ratios (serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis) were 1.8 and 1.0 (= no rcf); angina events were 132 (26%) for a, and 25 (3%) for b; persistent hypotension was seen 37 (7%) times in a and 5 (0.6%) times in b; esophagal spasms were noted 65 (13%) times for a, and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae. this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle.
correlation of isomeric fatty acids in human adipose tissue with clinical risk factors for cardiovascular disease. the relationships between the adipose tissue concentrations of 19 geometric and positional fatty acid isomers and 10 cardiovascular disease risk factors were determined in 76 free-living adult males. the percentages for trans isomers (total mean +/- sd 4.14 +/- 0.97%) and cis isomers (total mean +/- sd 2.91 +/- 0.34%) in adipose tissue generally agreed with dietary estimates based on the consumption of hydrogenated oils. a major exception was the percentage of 11c-18:1, which was twofold higher in adipose tissue. the total level of fatty acid isomers in adipose tissue or a factor (derived by factor analysis) that was representative of isomers of dietary origin was not significantly correlated with the cardiovascular risk factors. only three trans isomers (11t-18:1, 12t-18:1, and 5t-14:1) and three cis isomers (11c-18:1, 13c-18:1, and 7c-16:1) were weakly correlated either positively or negatively with age, body mass index, plasma and lipoprotein cholesterol, and/or blood pressure (p less than 0.05, r greater than 0.231).
recurrent herpetic keratitis: failure to detect herpes simplex virus infection using the syva microtrak hsv1/hsv2 direct specimen identification/typing test. a 35-year-old man had developed recurrent herpetic keratitis characterized by dendritic keratitis at intervals of a year. we were able to culture cytopathic agents repeatedly from his lesions by inoculating vero cells. the cultures yielded definitive evidence of a virus that caused a cytopathic effect within 3 days. however, these virus strains could not be identified as herpes simplex virus (hsv) in immunofluorescence assays using the syva microtrak hsv1/hsv2 direct specimen identification/typing test. rather they were identified as strains of hsv type 1 (hsv-1) on the basis of plaque morphology, neutralization tests, electron-microscopic examination and dna restriction endonuclease analysis. our results allow us to assume the existence of hsv-1 strains isolated clinically that are negative to analysis using the syva micro-trak hsv1/hsv2 direct specimen identification/typing test.
buffered versus plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple laceration repair. study objective: buffered lidocaine was compared with plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple lacerations. design: randomized, double-blind, prospective clinical trial. setting: urban emergency department. type of participants: ninety-one adult patients with simple linear lacerations were enrolled. patients with allergy to lidocaine and patients with an abnormal mental status were excluded. interventions: each wound edge was anesthetized with either plain or buffered lidocaine using a randomized, double-blind protocol. the pain of infiltration was measured with a previously validated visual analog pain scale. measurements and main results: analysis of pooled data and paired data (using patients as their own controls) revealed that infiltrating buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than plain lidocaine (p = .03 and p = .02, respectively). there was no significant difference in the anesthetic effectiveness of the two agents during suturing. conclusion: buffered lidocaine is preferable to plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic agent for the repair of simple lacerations.
familial occurrence of gastric cancer in the 2-year experience of a population-based registry. the authors studied the familial occurrence of tumors in 154 individuals with gastric cancer by reviewing the clinical data and the genealogical tree of all patients registered in 1986 through 1987 in the local health care district of modena, italy, for cancer of the stomach. crude and age-adjusted (world population) incidence rates of gastric cancer were 34.0 and 21.4 new cases/100,000/year, respectively, in men, and 24.5 and 10.9 in women, respectively. among first-degree relatives of the registered patients there were 30 cases of gastric carcinoma versus 15 cases in a control group matched for age and sex (mantel-haenszel odds ratio [m-h or] 3.14, p less than 0.01). this excess of gastric neoplasms was observed in siblings (17 versus 7, m-h or 4.33, p less than 0.02) but not in parents (13 versus 8, not significant). besides gastric cancer, there was no significant excess of other type of tumors in case families. the familial occurrence of gastric cancer tended to be more frequent in patients with "diffuse" carcinoma (52%) than in subjects with "intestinal" cancer (33%), although the difference was not statistically significant. in conclusion, the current investigation suggests that a "family history" for gastric neoplasms is usually observed in approximately 10% to 15% of the registered cases. as already described for other common malignancies, therefore, the familial occurrence of gastric carcinoma suggests the existence of a genetic susceptibility to cancer of the stomach, at least in a fraction of these patients.
internuclear ophthalmoplegia in the chiari type ii malformation. we describe 3 cases of chiari type ii malformation presenting with bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia (ino). although prominent, the ino was not an isolated sign in any of the patients; superimposed abduction paresis was present in 2, and deficits in smooth pursuit, optokinetic nystagmus, and vestibulo-ocular responses were present in 3. two had hydrocephalus: 1 was clinically unchanged without therapy after 5 years; the other did not improve with shunting. findings in our 3 patients, along with the 4 previously reported, confirm that ino is 1 manifestation of widespread brainstem or cerebellar dysfunction. its origin is probably multifactorial, related to hydrocephalus, vascular compromise, direct neuronal distortion, or congenital neural malformation.
topical silicone gel for the prevention and treatment of hypertrophic scar. we studied the effects of a silicone gel bandage that was worn for at least 12 hours daily on the resolution of hypertrophic burn scar. in a second cohort, the prevention of hypertrophic scar formation in fresh surgical incisions by this bandage was also evaluated. in 19 patients with hypertrophic burn scars, elasticity of the scars was quantitated serially with the use of an elastometer. an adjacent or mirror-image hypertrophic burn scar served as a control. scar elasticity was increased after both 1 and 2 months compared with that in controls. there was corresponding improvement clinically that persisted for at least 6 months. in the other cohort, scar volume changes in 21 surgical incisions were measured before and after 1 and 2 months. gel-treated incisions gained less volume than control incisions after both intervals. clinical assessment corroborated this quantitative demonstration of a decrement in scar volume. we concluded that topical silicone gel is efficacious, both in the prevention and in the treatment of hypertrophic scar.
circulating plasma platelet activating factor in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. platelet activating factor (paf) is an endogenous phospholipid mediator that causes pulmonary hypertension and thrombocytopenia in experimental animal models. to investigate circulating paf in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (pphn), we studied paf and its degradative enzyme, acetylhydrolase. thirteen neonates with pphn, diagnosed by routine clinical methods including echocardiography, were compared to six age-matched control patients with respiratory distress. overall, plasma paf levels were elevated in patients with pphn compared to control patients (20.1 +/- 3.9 versus 1.6 +/- 0.7 ng/ml, p less than 0.01). in addition, plasma paf concentrations in patients with pphn correlated with the severity of disease as defined by the delta aapo2 (r = 0.65, p = 0.015). in three patients with elevated paf levels, as the clinical status improved, the plasma paf values decreased. acetylhydrolase activity was similar in both groups (3.96 +/- 0.90 versus 3.78 +/- 1.44 nmol/ml/min, p = ns). we conclude that paf production is increased in pphn and that abnormal production of paf may be associated with pulmonary hypertension.
extrathoracic metastatic malignant thymoma. diagnosis by aspiration cytology. a fine-needle aspirate from a hepatic mass in a 65-year-old white man was examined. the patient had a history of histologically confirmed thymoma with metastases in multiple thoracic sites. the smears showed a dimorphic population of epithelial cells and lymphocytes, characteristic of thymoma. the resemblance of the cytologic pattern to the primary neoplasm and positive reactivity with various immunohistochemical agents peculiar to thymomas confirmed the diagnosis. aspiration cytology has been described in the diagnosis of primary thymoma. to our knowledge, this is the second reported case of a cytologic diagnosis of metastatic thymoma and the first one with immunohistochemical studies.
myod induces growth arrest independent of differentiation in normal and transformed cells. myod is a gene involved in the control of muscle differentiation. we show that myod causes growth arrest when expressed in cell lines derived from tumors or transformed by different oncogenes. myod-induced growth inhibition was demonstrated by reduction in the efficiency of colony formation and at the single-cell level. we further show that myod growth inhibition can occur in cells that are not induced to activate muscle differentiation markers. the inhibitory activity of myod was mapped to the same 68-amino acid segment necessary and sufficient for induction of muscle differentiation, the basic-helix-loop-helix motif. mutants with alterations in the basic region of myod that fail to bind or do not activate a muscle-specific enhancer inhibited growth; mutants with deletions in the helix-loop-helix region failed to inhibit growth. thus, inhibition of cell growth by myod seems to occur by means of a parallel pathway to the one that leads to myogenesis. we conclude that myod is a prototypic gene capable of functionally activating intracellular growth inhibitory pathways.
achieving ph control in the critically ill patient: the role of continuous infusion of h2-receptor antagonists. stress-related gastric mucosal damage is a common occurrence in intensive care unit (icu) patients. because of the significant morbidity and mortality associated with this mucosal damage, many icu patients routinely receive prophylactic therapy, usually with histamine h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras). gastric acid secretion occurs in a circadian pattern, with late afternoon and evening surges. h2ras by continuous infusion may control this uneven pattern of secretion more effectively than h2ras given by bolus injection. more studies are needed to identify the target icu population for prophylactic treatment.
familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex. a 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol, betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein b. computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem. of the six family members examined, four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia, and one had mild ataxia. similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives. this case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia, cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex.
invasive lobular carcinoma: mammographic findings in a 10-year experience from january 1, 1976 to december 30, 1985, 1,966 cases of breast carcinoma were diagnosed and treated at malmo general hospital, malmo, sweden. of these cases, 185 (9.4%) involved invasive lobular carcinoma (ilc). mammography in 137 cases demonstrated the following findings: spiculated opacity (53%), architectural distortion (16%), poorly defined opacity (7%), normal or benign findings (16%), and parenchymal asymmetry (4%). radiographic definition of the ilc lesion varied greatly with projection: the craniocaudal view demonstrated significant findings more frequently than either the oblique or lateral views. secondary radiographic findings were present in 31%, microcalcifications were rare, and physical findings were present in 89%. because of its diffuse growth pattern and tendency to form lesions with opacity equal to or less than that of the parenchyma, ilc can be extremely difficult to detect mammographically. therefore, the radiologist must be alert for subtle mammographic signs of malignancy and highly suspicious of any abnormal physical findings regardless of the mammographic appearance.
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute: case report. a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute. in 1983, the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura. five years later, he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule, which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically.
bactericidal effect of doxycycline associated with lysosomotropic agents on coxiella burnetii in p388d1 cells. there is no consistently reliable treatment for endocarditis resulting from chronic coxiella burnetii infection, the causative agent of q fever. although certain antibiotics are recommended on the basis of their in vitro bactericidal activities, results of therapy with these antibiotics are often disappointing. to evaluate whether the currently recommended antibiotic susceptibility tests for c. burnetii give misleading results because of continued division of uninfected cells, thereby resulting in the dilution of infected cells and, hence, a false picture of antibiotic efficacy, we blocked cell division during antibiotic susceptibility testing with cycloheximide. using this new method, we found that the currently recommended antibiotics for the treatment of q fever, doxycycline, pefloxacin, and rifampin, did not reduce the ratio of infected to noninfected cells (either l929 or p388d1) by 9 days postinfection. to test the hypothesis that this lack of antibacterial activity is due to antibiotic inactivation by the low ph of the phagolysosomes in which c. burnetii is found, we used alkalinizing lysosomotropic agents (chloroquine or amantadine) concurrently with doxycycline. this resulted in the sterilization of c. burnetii infection in p388d1 cells. this finding seems to confirm our suspicion that the acidic conditions of the phagolysosomes in which c. burnetii is located inhibit antibiotic activity. this inhibition can be reversed in vitro when lysosomotropic alkalinizing agents are used.
bacterial endocarditis presenting as acute myocardial infarction: a cautionary note for the era of reperfusion. coronary embolism is a known complication of bacterial endocarditis that sometimes causes acute myocardial infarction. the necessity for rapidly restoring coronary artery perfusion and the time constraints governing clinical decisions may prevent endocarditis from being diagnosed before pharmacologic or mechanical thrombolysis. this report describes the first documented cases of coronary angioplasty in two patients with acute myocardial infarction caused by bacterial endocarditis, and reviews the literature on coronary artery complications of bacterial endocarditis. the first patient developed a coronary artery mycotic aneurysm at the dilatation site; the second experienced a small intracerebral hemorrhage following reperfusion. it is, of course, unwise to generalize from two cases, but we believe that in patients who are most likely to have endocarditis as the cause of acute myocardial infarction, the impulse to follow conventional strategies for coronary reperfusion should be tempered by thoughts of possible consequences.
idiopathic intracranial hypertension. although the cause of iih remains obscure, loss of visual function is common, and patients may progress to blindness. diagnosis should adhere to the modified dandy criteria. recent case-control studies cast doubt on the validity of many frequently cited conditions associated with iih. valid associations include obesity, recent weight gain, female sex, vitamin a intoxication, and steroid withdrawal. management should include serial perimetry using a sensitive disease-specific strategy so the proper therapy can be selected and visual loss prevented or reversed.
alcohol consumption--a risk factor for hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke. purpose: the risks of alcohol consumption and its association with stroke were studied in 621 patients with stroke and 573 control subjects using case-control methods. patients and methods: patients with stroke were subdivided into 193 with subarachnoid hemorrhage, 91 with intracerebral hemorrhage, and 337 with cerebral infarction. data on recent alcohol consumption were obtained by questionnaire in patients with stroke and compared with data from an occupational screening survey in control subjects. results: relative risks, adjusted for confounding variables, exhibited j-shaped associations with increasing levels of alcohol consumption classified into four categories--abstainer, 1 to 90 g, 100 to 390 g, and greater than or equal to 400 g weekly). the individual risks were 1, 0.7, 0.5, and 1.3 for subarachnoid hemorrhage; 1.0, 0.6, 0.5., and 2.5 for intracerebral hemorrhage, and 1.0, 0.6, 0.7, and 2.4 for cerebral infarction for men and women combined. conclusions: the results suggest that low levels of alcohol consumption may have some protective effect upon the cerebral vasculature, whereas heavy consumption predisposes to both hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke.
depression after acute myocardial infarction. the role of primary care physicians in rehabilitation. depression is a common problem after myocardial infarction. diagnosis is facilitated by use of the criteria for depression in the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders and self-rating questionnaires. treatment may involve both psychological and pharmacologic interventions. the patient's medical status must be carefully assessed before administration of antidepressant medication. all antidepressants are contraindicated immediately after myocardial infarction. when signs and symptoms of depression are exhibited early in the recovery phase, alprazolam (xanax) may offer advantages over more traditional antidepressants. further research is necessary to determine the safety of newer antidepressants.
dysplasia and dna aneuploidy in a pelvic pouch. report of a case. a patient with an 18-year history of ulcerative colitis was operated on with colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, ileoanal anastomosis, and an s-type pelvic pouch due to intractable chronic continuous disease. the patient was followed by endoscopic controls and biopsy sampling from the pouch at regular intervals. a gradual development of severe atrophy in the ileal mucosa was followed by the development of low grade dysplasia. at the most recent endoscopic control, 4 years after the construction of the pouch, biopsies were sampled also for flow cytometric dna analyses. dna aneuploidy was detected in a biopsy from the center of the pouch, and a biopsy taken immediately adjacent showed low grade dysplasia. these findings underline the importance of endoscopic follow-up after construction of a pelvic pouch and focus attention to the potential of malignant transformation of the mucosa.
perirenal candidial abscess. perirenal candidial abscesses are rare, with few well-documented cases in the literature. we describe a case of a perinephric abscess treated with amphotericin b and nephrectomy.
novel primitive lymphoid tumours induced in transgenic mice by cooperation between myc and bcl-2. the putative oncogene bcl-2 is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain (igh) locus by the t(14;18) chromosomal translocation typical of human follicular b-cell lymphomas. the bcl-2 gene product is not altered by the translocation, but its expression is deregulated, presumably by the igh enhancer e mu. constitutive bcl-2 expression seems to augment cell survival, as infection with a bcl-2 retrovirus enables certain growth factor-dependent mouse cell lines to maintain viability when deprived of factor. furthermore, high levels of the bcl-2 product can protect human b and t lymphoblasts under stress and thereby confer a growth advantage. mice expressing a bcl-2 transgene controlled by the igh enhancer accumulate small non-cycling b cells which survive unusually well in vitro but do not show a propensity for spontaneous tumorigenesis. in contrast, an analogous myc transgene, designed to mimic the myc-igh translocation product typical of burkitt's lymphoma and rodent plasmacytoma, promotes b lymphoid cell proliferation and predisposes mice to malignancy in pre-b and b lymphoid cells. previous experiments have suggested that bcl-2 can cooperate with deregulated myc to improve in vitro growth of pre-b and b cells. here we describe a marked synergy between bcl-2 and myc in doubly transgenic mice. e mu-bcl-2/myc mice show hyperproliferation of pre-b and b cells and develop tumours much faster than e mu-myc mice. suprisingly, the tumours derive from a cell with the hallmarks of a primitive haemopoietic cell, perhaps a lymphoid-committed stem cell.
time delays in the diagnosis and treatment of acute myocardial infarction: a tale of eight cities. report from the pre-hospital study group and the cincinnati heart project. to establish the magnitude of prehospital and hospital delays in initiating thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, the time from telephone 911 emergency medical system (ems) activation to treatment and its components were analyzed from eight separate ongoing trials. this included estimates of ambulance response time, prehospital evaluation and treatment time, and time from admission to the hospital to initiation of thrombolytic therapy. the average time from ems activation to patient arrival at the hospital was prospectively determined to be 46.1 +/- 8.2 minutes in 3715 patients from eight centers. the time from admission to the hospital to initiation of thrombolytic therapy was retrospectively determined to be 83.8 +/- 55.0 minutes in a separate group of 730 patients from six centers. both the prehospital and hospital time delays were much longer than those perceived by paramedics and emergency department directors. shorter hospital time delays were observed in patients in whom a prehospital ecg was obtained as part of a protocol-driven prehospital diagnostic strategy and a diagnosis of acute infarction made before arrival at the hospital (36.3 +/- 11.3 minutes in 13 patients). these results show that the magnitude of time required to evaluate, transport, and initiate thrombolytic therapy will preclude initiation of treatment to most patients within the first hour of symptoms. implementation of a protocol-driven prehospital diagnostic strategy may be associated with a reduction in time to thrombolytic therapy.
deferoxamine fails to improve postischemic cardiac function in hypertrophied hearts. myocardial hypertrophy is a well-recognized risk factor in congenital cardiac surgery. hypertrophied hearts have been demonstrated to have an increased vulnerability to ischemia/reperfusion injury. we studied the effects of the iron chelator and hydroxyl radical scavenger deferoxamine given during early reperfusion in a model of isolated retroperfused rabbit hearts made hypertrophic by aortic banding early in life (1 week of age). the rabbits were studied at 6-8 weeks of age, and the hearts were subjected to 30 minutes of 37 degrees c ischemia followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion. postischemic recovery of isovolumic developed pressure was measured by using an intracavitary balloon in both the untreated (n = 6) and the deferoxamine-treated (n = 6) groups and compared with normal age-matched controls. deferoxamine (50 mumol/kg) was given to one group with the hypertrophied hearts during the first 10 minutes of reperfusion. the left ventricular weight/body weight ratio in the hypertrophied hearts was 2.9 +/- 0.4 x 10(-3) (n = 14) versus 2.0 +/- 0.1 x 10(-3) in the age-matched controls (p less than 0.05). postischemic peak developed pressure recovered to 102 +/- 6% of the preischemic value in the normal hearts after 30 minutes of reperfusion compared with 75 +/- 5% for the untreated and 71 +/- 4% for the deferoxamine-treated hearts (p less than 0.05 vs. control). we conclude that chronic hypertrophy from early in life leads to increased susceptibility to ischemia and that the iron chelator deferoxamine is not effective in preventing the injury of reperfusion in hypertrophied hearts.
the recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation. applications of muscle flap closure. perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment. thirteen consecutive patients (aged 27 to 74 years; mean, 48 years) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage. three risk factors were identified: preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy, resection for recurrent carcinoma, and inflammatory bowel disease. a total of 19 muscle flaps (11 gracilis, five gluteal thigh, two gluteus maximus, and one rectus abdominis) were used to close these wounds. during an average 3.5-year follow-up, four (31%) minor complications and one (8%) recurrence were noted to occur. muscle flaps provide safe, effective, single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds.
multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial: design, recruitment, and feasibility. m-heart investigators. a randomized control trial was set up to examine factors that influence restenosis and determine the effects of corticosteroids on restenosis following successful ptca. the rationale for the study agent chosen, design, recruitment, and feasibility, as well as initial patient demographic data and initial results are presented.
seizure-associated speech arrest in elderly patients recurrent, brief episodes of speech arrest associated with bifrontal electroencephalographic seizure activity developed in three ill elderly patients. the seizures ceased after the initiation of antiepileptic drug therapy and the correction of metabolic abnormalities. the cause of the seizure activity remains unknown, but a possible mechanism may be a transient epileptogenic cortical dysfunction that predominantly affects the frontal lobes as a result of concomitant metabolic alterations.
protective effect of a novel calcium blocker, s-312-d, on ischemic acute renal failure in rat. the effect of the calcium blocker s-(+)-methyl 4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4-(3-nitro-phenyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine- 5-carboxylate (s-312-d) on ischemic acute renal failure (arf) was studied in rats. ischemic arf was induced by temporary (30-60 min) clamping of the left kidney 2 weeks after contralateral right nephrectomy. plasma creatinine, creatinine clearance, urinary osmolality and fractional excretion of sodium were used to test the effectiveness of the drug. s-312-d (0.01-0.1 mg/kg b.wt. i.v.) administration before ischemia offered dose-dependent protection against the functional impairment induced by ischemia. this effect was accompanied by an increase in the survival rate of ischemic rats. s-312-d given after ischemia was not effective. the renal cortical edema induced by ischemia was significantly reduced by pretreatment with s-312-d. the increase in renal tissue calcium content observed after ischemia was also suppressed by s-312-d. comparison with other established calcium blockers indicated s-312-d to be a good candidate for protection against ischemic arf. these findings indicate that s-312-d may be clinically useful against renal ischemia.
anomalies of intestinal rotation in childhood: analysis of 447 cases. this report concerns 447 infants and children with anomalies of rotation and fixation. patients were placed in four groups based on initial symptoms. group a involved 18 patients with acute midgut volvulus. at laparotomy, midgut volvulus was noted and reduction of midgut volvulus and a ladd procedure were performed in 10 cases and resection was required in 8. there were five deaths (28%). group b included 54 children with chronic symptoms of intermittent volvulus or duodenal obstruction. group c involved 44 cases of malrotation observed during exploration for other disorders. patients in groups b and c underwent a ladd procedure and appendectomy. there were five unrelated deaths. group d included 331 neonates with malrotation caused by either diaphragmatic hernia (n = 111) or abdominal wall defects (n = 220). a ladd procedure was performed on 48 patients with abdominal wall defects and 29 surviving children with diaphragmatic hernia. only 2 of 172 (1.2%) patients with abdominal wall defects and 1 of 34 (2.9%) patients with diaphragmatic hernia not treated for malrotation had midgut volvulus. midgut volvulus is more common in infants and is associated with a high mortality rate (28%). patients with malrotation and chronic obstructive symptoms or those observed during other elective procedures should undergo a ladd procedure because of the risk of midgut volvulus. the risk of midgut volvulus is low in patients with abdominal wall defects and, probably as a result of adhesions from previous neonatal operations.
benign biliary strictures: treatment with percutaneous cholangioplasty. results of percutaneous balloon cholangioplasty of 17 patients with 28 benign biliary strictures were compared with those of published radiologic and surgical series to determine whether stricture location was related to therapeutic success and whether a patient should undergo percutaneous or surgical therapy. treatment was considered successful if there was no anatomic evidence of recurrent stricture or need for surgery (mean follow-up, 32 months). treatment was successful in all nine (100%) intrahepatic (zone 1) strictures, 11 of 12 (92%) extrahepatic-extrapancreatic (zone 2) strictures, one of three (33%) intrapancreatic (zone 3) strictures, and three of four (75%) bilienteric anastomotic (zone 4) strictures. restenosis occurred in five patients; cholangioplasty was ultimately successful in two of those patients after redilation and stent placement. on the basis of these results and those of published radiologic and surgical series, the authors believe that cholangioplasty is the treatment of choice for zone 1 strictures and is as effective as surgery for zone 2 and 4 strictures. patients with zone 2 and 4 strictures with concomitant portal hypertension or a history of multiple previous biliary surgical procedures should be considered good candidates for cholangioplasty. zone 3 strictures may be better treated surgically than percutaneously.
is caffeine withdrawal the mechanism of postoperative headache? this study examined the hypothesis that headache after general anesthesia is related to a caffeine withdrawal state. two hundred eighty-seven patients undergoing minor elective procedures under general anesthesia were studied. four to six hours after anesthesia each patient completed a questionnaire assessing his or her own alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine consumption, and the occurrence of postoperative side effects. a highly significant difference was found between the caffeine consumption of patients with and without preoperative (p = 0.0035) and postoperative (p less than 0.0001) headache. logistic regression analysis of trend between headache and caffeine consumption suggested that with each 100-mg increase in caffeine consumption, there was a 12% increase in the odds of headache developing in the immediate preoperative period (p less than 0.0066) and a 16% increase in the odds of postoperative headache developing (p less than 0.0001). no relationship was found between headache and the patients' age, sex, usual frequency of headache, consumption of alcohol or nicotine, or the anesthetic agents or adjuvants used. it is concluded that postoperative headache is related to caffeine intake and that this relationship is explained, at least in part, by a perioperative caffeine withdrawal syndrome.
coffee, caffeine, and cardiovascular disease in men background. for many years, an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected. although based on small numbers of end points, a prospective study has suggested a particularly strong association between recent coffee drinking and the incidence of cardiovascular disease. methods. we examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction, need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty, and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 u.s. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease. results. during two years of follow-up observation, 221 participants had a nonfatal myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease, 136 underwent coronary-artery surgery or angioplasty, and 54 had a stroke. total coffee consumption was not associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease or stroke. the age-adjusted relative risk for all cardiovascular disease among participants who drank four or more cups of coffee per day was 1.04 (95 percent confidence intervals, 0.74 to 1.46). increasing levels of consumption of caffeinated coffee were not associated with higher risks of cardiovascular disease. higher consumption of decaffeinated coffee, however, was associated with a marginally significant increase in the risk of coronary heart disease (relative risk, 1.63; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 2.60). finally, we observed no pattern of increased risk across the subgroups of participants with increasing intakes of caffeine from all sources. adjustment for major cardiovascular-risk indicators, dietary intake of fats, and cholesterol intake did not materially alter these associations. conclusions. these findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke.
the pathology of heart allograft rejection. the pathologist plays an important role in the care of cardiac transplant recipients. day-to-day management of immunosuppression is largely dependent on the diagnosis and grading of acute rejection. while noninvasive methods have been tried experimentally, the endomyocardial biopsy remains the gold standard in monitoring the rejection status of the heart allograft. the diagnosis of rejection, however, is complicated by a variety of other histologic findings, which may be procedural or processing related, due to sampling, or specifically related to transplantation. failed allografts, whether from autopsy or explantation, provide the opportunity to study short- and long-term changes in the transplanted heart. allograft arteriopathy, or graft atherosclerosis, is the major limiting factor in long-term recipient survival. while the morphological features of graft arteriopathy have been well described, the mechanism and factors contributing to its development remain unclear.
a prospective randomized study of cerebrospinal fluid drainage to prevent paraplegia after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta. this article is concerned with the study of the effect of several variables, principally that of cerebrospinal fluid drainage, on the incidence of neurologic deficit in a prospective randomized series of patients with extensive aneurysms of the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta (thoracoabdominal type i and ii). forty-six patients had cerebrospinal fluid drainage, and 52 were controls, with a total of 98 available for study. cerebrospinal fluid pressure was continuously monitored in the former group and pressure maintained less than or equal to 10 mm hg in 20, less than or equal to 15 mm hg in 20, and greater than 15 mm hg in 6 patients during period of aortic clamping. the method of treatment including reattachment of intercostal and lumbar arteries (p = 0.2), temporary atriofemoral bypass during aortic occlusion (p = 0.3), and spinal fluid drainage (p = 0.8) were not statistically significant in reducing the incidence of neurologic deficits. thus cerebrospinal fluid drainage as we used it, was not beneficial in preventing paraplegia. on appropriate statistical analysis we found that the only significant predictor of delayed deficits was postoperative hypotension (p = 0.006).
inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia. a patient with inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia (m4) is reported. he had spiking fever, epigastralgia, and elevated levels of serum c-reactive protein (crp) and alkaline phosphatase (alp). ultrasonography showed a hypoechoic mass in the liver, and ultrasonically guided fine needle aspiration biopsy of the mass revealed that it was composed of fibrous connective tissue infiltrated with plasma cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils. accordingly, a diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver was made. marked reduction in the size of the lesion and a decrease of the levels of the crp and alp occurred without specific treatment. we emphasize the importance of ultrasonically guided aspiration biopsy in diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver without the need for surgery.
neuropsychological profile linked to low dopamine: in alzheimer's disease, major depression, and parkinson's disease. a distinct pattern of neuropsychological deficits was associated with low homovanillic acid (hva) in the cerebrospinal fluid of 21 patients with: alzheimer's disease (9), parkinson's disease (8) and major depressive disorders (4). regardless of clinical diagnosis, patients with low hva were slower on a test of efficiency of processing timed information, and showed greater benefit from semantic structure on a verbal fluency task than patients with high hva. however, low hva subjects were not significantly impaired on confrontation naming (boston naming test). across three diagnostic groups, patients with lower hva also tended to have more extrapyramidal motor signs and were significantly more depressed. these results demonstrate a significant relationship between specific neuro-behavioural deficits and dopaminergic activity which cuts across traditional diagnostic categories.
high-fat semielemental diet in the treatment of protracted diarrhea of infancy. the capacity for greater fat absorption relative to carbohydrate absorption in protracted diarrhea of infancy was studied in a developed and a developing country (buffalo, ny, and bangkok, thailand). fifty patients with protracted diarrhea in the first year of life (defined as liquid stools of more than 20 ml/kg per day with more than a 14-day duration) were randomly assigned to receive either a standard semielemental diet (pregestimil) or a high-fat semielemental diet that contained 40% more fat. the increased fat was largely in the form of medium-chain triglycerides, with the new diet providing 60% of the fat as medium-chain triglycerides compared with 40% in the standard diet. tolerance to both diets was good in both studies. both groups showed adequate weight gain and an improvement in anthropometric and biochemical parameters. the patients receiving the high-fat diet showed no initial weight loss, however, and their weight gain was initiated earlier. cumulative weight gain was also higher in the group receiving the high-fat semielemental diet. fecal fat analyses were performed after 1 week of therapy. there was no difference observed in the coefficient of fat absorption between the groups receiving the two formulas, indicating that infants with protracted diarrhea may be able to tolerate a higher fat intake than is normally provided. as carbohydrate intolerance is known to be a complicating factor when using semielemental enteral feeds for infants with protracted diarrhea, a higher-fat semielemental diet may be the most appropriate way to provide adequate caloric intake.
esophageal contribution to chest pain in patients with coronary artery disease. we conducted a prospective study to determine the role of the esophagus in causing chest pain in patients with established cad on optimum therapy. thirty-two men with documented cad who complained of frequent and usually daily retrosternal chest pain were evaluated. following a standard esophageal manometry and acid perfusion test, simultaneous two-channel ambulatory holter monitor and esophageal ph record tests were performed for 24 hours. fifty-three episodes of chest pain were documented in 20 patients; 11 patients were free of pain. of the 20 patients who complained of chest pains, 17 (85 percent) demonstrated at least one episode of ppr, defined as a drop in distal esophageal ph to less than 4 within ten minutes before or after the onset chest pain. episodes of asymptomatic ger were common. the correlation of ppr with chest pain was 70 percent (37/53 episodes) and of ischemic ecg changes with chest pain 13 percent (7/53); in the remaining, there was no correlation with either. two patients demonstrated simultaneous ppr and ischemic ecg changes. seventeen esophageal motility abnormalities were observed in 14 patients (45 percent). it is our conclusion that esophageal disorders contribute to chest pain in patients with documented cad. in this group, ger plays a greater role than in those with normal coronary arteries. in addition, esophageal motility disorders are common in these patients. esophageal testing can be undertaken safely in these patients.
mohs micrographic surgery fixed-tissue technique for melanoma of the nose. mohs micrographic surgery, fixed-tissue technique, for excision of nasal melanoma provides three important benefits: 1) assurance of eradication of the main mass along with its "silent" contiguous outgrowths, 2) safe management of non-contiguous satellites too small to be visible initially, and 3) safe sparing of maximal amounts of surrounding normal tissues. these benefits are achieved because all incisions are through chemically fixed (killed) tissue, eliminating the danger of disseminating the highly transplantable melanoma cells and permitting the excision of successive layers for microscopic scanning of their undersurfaces by the systematic use of frozen sections. the process is continued to the termination of each ramification. there is no need to remove a wide margin of normal tissue as is customary with conventional surgery. clinically invisible satellites are not moved or disturbed and can be removed safely by the same method if they appear. the reliability of the method is manifested by the 62.5% 5-year cure in a series of 10 consecutive patients, all of whom had no local recurrence after micrographic surgery.
lumbar spinal nerves in the neural foramen: mr appearance. the appearance of the proximal lumbar spinal nerves at magnetic resonance (mr) imaging has not, to the authors' knowledge, been described. mr images and exactly corresponding sections obtained from four cadavers by means of a freezing microtome were correlated to characterize the mr appearance of the proximal spinal nerves. the junction of the dorsal and ventral rami with the dorsal and ventral roots consists of a group of six to 15 fascicles measuring 2-6 mm in length. these fascicles appear in mr images obtained with short repetition times as small foci of lower signal intensity than that of surrounding fat. the proximal spinal nerve and its relationship to the intervertebral disk and osseous margins of the neural foramen can be demonstrated effectively with mr imaging.
hypoxemia alone does not explain blood pressure elevations after obstructive apneas. in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa), substantial elevations of systemic blood pressure (bp) and depressions of oxyhemoglobin saturation (sao2) accompany apnea termination. the causes of the bp elevations, which contribute significantly to nocturnal hypertension in osa, have not been defined precisely. to assess the relative contribution of arterial hypoxemia, we observed mean arterial pressure (map) changes following obstructive apneas in 11 osa patients during non-rapid-eye-movement (nrem) sleep and then under three experimental conditions: 1) apnea with o2 supplementation; 2) hypoxemia (sao2 80%) without apnea; and 3) arousal from sleep with neither hypoxemia nor apnea. we found that apneas recorded during o2 supplementation (sao2 nadir 93.6% +/- 2.4; mean +/- sd) in six subjects were associated with equivalent postapneic map elevations compared with unsupplemented apneas (sao2 nadir 79-82%): 18.8 +/- 7.1 vs. 21.3 +/- 9.2 mmhg (mean change map +/- sd); in the absence of respiratory and sleep disruption in eight subjects, hypoxemia was not associated with the bp elevations observed following apneas: -5.4 +/- 19 vs. 19.1 +/- 7.8 mmhg (p less than 0.01); and in five subjects, auditory arousal alone was associated with map elevation similar to that observed following apneas: 24.0 +/- 8.1 vs. 22.0 +/- 6.9 mmhg. we conclude that in nrem sleep postapneic bp elevations are not primarily attributable to arterial hypoxemia. other factors associated with apnea termination, including arousal from sleep, reinflation of the lungs, and changes of intrathoracic pressure, may be responsible for these elevations.
splinter hemorrhages as a possible clinical manifestation of cholesterol crystal embolization. we describe a patient with cholesterol crystal embolization who demonstrated splinter hemorrhages of multiple fingernails and toenails as part of her clinical presentations. our patient's clinical presentation, and review of the medical literature, raise the possibility that cholesterol crystal embolization may be associated with splinter hemorrhages.
bacterial overgrowth and intestinal atrophy in the etiology of gut barrier failure in the rat. bacterial translocation occurs in animal models of shock, trauma, sepsis, and parenteral or elemental enteral alimentation. bowel atrophy and cecal bacterial overgrowth have both been implicated in the pathophysiology of bacterial translocation in many of these models. to further define the etiology of bacterial translocation resulting from dietary manipulations, rats were fed a elemental/defined-formula diet (dfd) for 2 weeks ad libitum and then randomized to either intestinal decontamination with a nonabsorbable antibiotic (neomycin) or no antibiotic treatment. neomycin treatment significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced the incidence of bacterial translocation after dfd, in association with a significant reduction in the number of cecal gram-negative bacteria. neither loss of bowel mass after dfd nor bowel composition was affected by oral neomycin. bacterial translocation after dfd would thus appear to be the result of cecal bacterial overgrowth rather than a loss of a physical intestinal barrier due to atrophy.
bile sampling, processing and analysis in clinical studies. obtaining a proper bile sample for investigative purposes is of utmost importance to obtain valid results. bile can be collected by direct aspiration of the gallbladder, by duodenal intubation or by t-tube drainage. the optimal method of collection depends on the investigative question, as well as on the resources available to the investigator. the procedures for obtaining, processing and analyzing human bile (gallbladder and hepatic) are summarized, pointing out the disadvantages and pitfalls that may occur.
radical prostatectomy for clinical stage t1-2n0m0 prostatic adenocarcinoma: long-term results. a total of 441 stage t1-2n0m0 and 11 stage t1-2n0m0 cancer patients with an elevated acid phosphatase level only, and 18 stage t1-2n+m0 cancer patients underwent radical prostatectomy. analysis of the 441 stage t1-2n0m0 cancer patients demonstrated that failure and survival were a function of the disease being organ-confined, specimen-confined or margin-positive, with 10-year failure rates of 12, 30 and 60%, respectively. of the patients with positive margins 44 were and 79 were not irradiated postoperatively. postoperative radiation produced no survival advantage. no difference in interval to failure or of survival could be identified between 105 patients whose disease was diagnosed by transurethral resection and 328 who had a palpable abnormality. eleven patients had negative bone and node findings but they had an elevated acid phosphatase level. all 8 patients not treated with immediate androgen deprivation failed within 36 months.
effects of halothane on hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in canine atelectasis. we studied the interactions of atelectasis and halothane on hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction using an isolated canine lobe. we divided pulmonary vascular resistance into arterial, venous, and middle segmental resistances by a vascular occlusion technique. we found that middle segmental resistance significantly increased (p less than 0.05) from 0.016 +/- 0.007 cm h2o.ml-1.min-1 during normoxic ventilation to 0.06 +/- 0.007 cm h2o.ml-1.min-1 during hypoxic ventilation. we then produced sublobar atelectasis by introducing 4.5-mm steel ball bearings into the lobar bronchus, which resulted in a significant increase (p less than 0.05) of middle segmental resistance to 0.046 +/- 0.014 cm h2o.ml-1.min-1 during normoxic ventilation and a further significant increase (p less than 0.05) to 0.084 +/- 0.02 cm h2o.ml-1.min-1 during hypoxic ventilation. ventilation with 2.0% halothane but not 0.5% halothane prevented the increases in middle segmental resistance observed with either atelectasis or hypoxic ventilation. values of arterial and venous segmental resistances were not similarly affected. we conclude that sublobar atelectasis increases pulmonary vascular resistance by stimulating hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction. both halothane and hypoxia primarily act upon the middle vascular segment, but their effects are in opposite directions and, in the former instance, are concentration-dependent.
vesicular changes in the myopathies of aids. ultrastructural observations and their relationship to zidovudine treatment. six patients with aids and aids related complex (arc) who developed neuromuscular symptoms associated with vesicular changes in muscle fibres are reported. two patients in the advanced stages of aids, who did not receive zidovudine, developed proximal limb weakness and wasting: both had a necrotising myopathy with an unusual segmental vesicular change of myofibres. there were numerous vesicles 0.1 to 2 microns in diameter produced by dilatations of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in fibres depleted of myofibrils. four patients developed a myopathy while receiving zidovudine for aids. one of these had an inflammatory myopathy which showed the development of vesicular change due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria. the three other patients with arc developed muscle pains or weakness and elevated serum ck while on zidovudine. these patients also showed vesicular changes due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria associated with disruption of sarcomeres and the presence of cytoplasmic bodies. the muscular symptoms resolved when ziduvodine was stopped and repeat biopsy in one case revealed no abnormalities.
long-term potentiation of electrotonic coupling at mixed synapses. long-term potentiation of chemical synapses is closely related to memory and learning. studies of this process have concentrated on chemically mediated excitatory synapses. by contrast, activity-dependent modification of gap junctions, which also widely exist in higher structures such as hippocampus and neocortex, has not been described. here we report that at mixed synapses between sensory afferents and an identified reticulospinal neuron, the electrotonic coupling potential can be potentiated, as well as the chemically mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential, for a prolonged time period using a stimulation paradigm like that which produces long-term potentiation in hippocampus. the effect on coupling is due to an increase in gap-junctional conductance. our data indicate that the potentiation of both synaptic components requires an increase in intracellular calcium, involves activation of nmda (n-methyl-d-aspartate) receptors, and is specific to the tetanized pathway.
treatment of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis with continuous intraventricular infusion of recombinant interleukin-2. a 42-year-old man developed leptomeningeal carcinomatosis 6 years after treatment of a malignant melanoma. he was treated with two courses of recombinant interleukin-2, administered as a continuous intraventricular infusion (6 x 10e5 u/24 h) during 5 days. during the first day of the first course he also received 5 x 10e9 lymphokine-activated killer cells intraventricularly. this gave rise to a severe elevation of intracranial pressure, with headaches and meningismus. during the second course no lak cells were administered. this course was tolerated much better. the neurological status did not change during the treatment. recombinant interleukin-2 levels were maintained at about 300 u/ml during both courses.
prevention of hypertension and vascular changes by captopril treatment. treatment of female spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) and control wistar-kyoto (wky) rats with captopril was carried out by the addition of the drug in the drinking water throughout pregnancy and lactation and after weaning. at 28 weeks of age, average systolic blood pressure of treated shr was 113 +/- 3 mm hg, which was below that of control shr (188 +/- 3 mm hg) and wky rats (124 +/- 3 mm hg). body weight and heart rate of the shr were not affected by the treatment. tissue level of catecholamines was increased by captopril treatment in the superior cervical ganglia but remained unchanged in the plasma, heart, mesenteric arteries, and the adrenal glands of both shr and wky rats. left ventricular weight, wall thickness, and internal diameter of the left ventricle in the shr were reduced by the treatment. morphometric measurements of the mesenteric arteries showed that vascular alterations present in the control shr were prevented by the treatment. in the superior mesenteric artery and large mesenteric artery, smaller lumen size at maximal relaxation found in the control shr was normalized to the level of the wky rats. hypertrophy of the medial wall in the superior mesenteric, large and small mesenteric arteries, and an increase in the number of smooth muscle cell layers in the large mesenteric artery of the shr were prevented by the treatment. perfusion study of the mesenteric vascular bed showed that reactivity of these vessels to norepinephrine was reduced, and sensitivity to norepinephrine (as determined by the effective dose that causes 50% of maximal response) was increased in the shr by captopril treatment. sensitivity of the tail artery in response to norepinephrine was not altered by the treatment. we conclude that long-term treatment with captopril of shr before and after birth prevented the development of hypertension, structural and functional alterations of the mesenteric arteries, and cardiac hypertrophy.
an evaluation of cocaine-induced chest pain study objective: to determine if enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury is present in patients complaining of chest pain after cocaine use when the ecg is normal or nondiagnostic. design: serial ecg and creatinine kinase (ck) and ck isoenzymes (ck-iso) determinations were performed at time of emergency department presentation and every six hours over 12 hours on individuals complaining of chest pain within six hours of last cocaine use. setting: ed of an urban tertiary care center. type of participants: forty-two individuals with a mean age of 28.5 years. interventions: patients with positive ck-isos were admitted immediately to formally rule out myocardial infarction. patients developing ecg changes during observation period also were admitted even if ck-isos were normal. patients with unchanged ecgs and normal ck-isos were discharged after 12 hours of observation. results: eight patients (19%) had elevated ck and ck-iso values at presentation. two of these patients had elevated values on three sequential determinations and were believed to have sustained acute myocardial infarction. six patients had elevated ck and ck-isos at presentation only. ecgs remained normal or nondiagnostic in all patients. conclusions: enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury may occur in patients who develop chest pain after cocaine use and have normal or nondiagnostic ecgs. this injury may reflect acute infarction or transient ischemia. single or serial normal or nondiagnostic ecgs do not rule out ischemia or injury in this group of patients.
fast and effective treatment of malignant hypercalcemia. combination of suppositories of calcitonin and a single infusion of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate. seventeen patients with malignant hypercalcemia were treated with a combination of a single dose of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate (apd [also known as ahprbp or palmidronate disodium]) and salmon calcitonin given as suppositories for 3 days. to assess whether such a combined short treatment has a significant benefit leading to earlier normalization of the plasma calcium level than does apd alone, 17 additional patients matched for the type of tumor, initial plasma calcium level, urinary hydroxyproline level, and the dose of apd served as controls. all patients receiving the combination of calcitonin and apd achieved normalization of the plasma calcium level within 9 days, with a decrease from 3.22 +/- 0.90 mmol/l (mean +/- sem) to 2.29 +/- 0.03 mmol/l. in the group receiving apd alone, the plasma calcium level normalized in only 14 of 17 patients by day 9. in the group receiving calcitonin and apd, the drop in the plasma calcium level occurred more rapidly, and the plasma calcium values were lower from days 2 to 4. this advantage was explained by the calciuric effect of calcitonin, as reflected by a significant decrease in the notional setting of renal reabsorption of calcium, reaching 2.16 +/- 0.06 mmol/l compared with 2.34 +/- 0.06 mmol/l in the group receiving apd alone. there were no side effects of both treatments, in particular neither flushing nor nausea induced by the suppositories of calcitonin. clinical improvement occurred after 2 days in the group receiving the combined treatment. in conclusion, the combined treatment is rapidly effective and safe in the treatment of patients with hypercalcemia, particularly when the notional setting of renal tubular reabsorption of calcium is increased and a rapid correction of the plasma calcium level is needed.
conjunctival involvement in pemphigus vulgaris: a clinical, histopathological and immunofluorescence study. eleven patients with pemphigus vulgaris and with eye complaints had histopathological and direct immunofluorescence (dif) studies on biopsies of their conjunctivae. in eight of the patients the ocular symptoms preceded the other manifestations of pemphigus. none of the 11 patients had any detectable conjunctival blisters or erosions. the conjunctivitis in three of the patients proved on histopathology and dif to be a manifestation of pemphigus vulgaris. in the remaining patients, conjunctival hyperaemia with or without a mucoid discharge was observed, but there were no specific histopathological features, although one of them had a positive dif.
young-onset parkinson's disease: a clinical review. young-onset parkinson's disease (yopd) is arbitrarily defined as that which produces initial symptoms between the ages of 21 and 39, inclusive. the special problems and concerns of the patient with yopd present as much of a challenge and opportunity for the clinician as the disease itself does for the researcher. in contrast to juvenile parkinsonism, which is a heterogeneous group of clinicopathologic entities presenting (also arbitrarily) before age 21, yopd appears to be the same nosologic entity as older-onset pd. it comprises approximately 5% of referral populations in western countries and about 10% in japan. its annual incidence relative to the population at risk is about 1/10 that of pd at age sixty. yopd tends to have more gradual progression of parkinsonian signs and symptoms, earlier appearance of levodopa-related dyskinesias and levodopa-dose-related motor fluctuations, and frequent presence of dystonia as an early or presenting sign. studies conflict with regard to the suspected greater familial frequency and lesser frequency of dementia than in older-onset pd.
urological complications in 350 consecutive renal transplants. ten urological complications (2.9%) were found in 350 kidney transplants performed in this centre. these included obstructive uropathy (20%), urinary leaks (40%), distal uretic fistulas (necrosis) (30%) and renal calculi (10%). two grafts were lost due to chronic rejection 9 and 30 months post-operatively. the remaining 8 patients have stable renal function (mean creatinine 1.5 mg%). it was concluded that meticulous surgical technique may reduce the number of urological complications and early diagnosis and prompt surgical treatment may help to save the grafts.
celiac disease, brain atrophy, and dementia. we report 5 patients who developed dementia before age 60 and were subsequently found to have celiac disease (cd). intellectual deterioration ranged from moderate to severe, and diffuse cerebral or cerebellar atrophy was found on brain ct. diagnosis of cd was confirmed by findings of subtotal villous atrophy in jejunal biopsy specimens and positive serum reticulin and gliadin antibodies. conspicuously, gastrointestinal symptoms were mild. the gluten-free diet failed to improve the neurologic disability except in 1 patient. cd is a multisystem disorder and may play a role in some cases of presenile dementia. although the pathogenetic mechanisms are obscure, immunologic mechanisms are implicated.
intramedullary spinal ependymal cyst: case report. a cervical intramedullary spinal ependymal cyst in a 39-year-old man is reported. diagnosis was made through magnetic resonance imaging. total enucleation was possible. this is the sixth such reported case.
effects of calcium channel blockade on calcium homeostasis in mild to moderate essential hypertension. calcium channel blockers may alter parathyroid hormone secretion in vitro, which would alter calcium homeostasis. to determine the chronic effect of calcium channel blockade in vivo, we conducted a randomized, double blind, 16 week study comparing the effects of two pharmacologic antihypertensive agents, the calcium channel blocker diltiazem and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril on parameters of calcium homeostasis. both diltiazem and captopril lowered blood pressure to a similar degree. neither drug produced any significant change in blood levels of total and ionized calcium, magnesium, or phosphorus, which affect the regulation of parathyroid hormone and vitamin d. in addition, at eight or 16 weeks following initiation, neither drug altered the serum levels of parathyroid hormone (pth) or 1,25-(oh)2-vitamin d3 (1,25-d). chronic calcium channel blockade with diltiazem does not alter serum parameters of calcium homeostasis and, thus, should not affect bone mineralization.
results of surgical treatment for hyperparathyroidism associated with renal disease. recently, the role and timing of surgery for treating secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism (hpt) have been questioned. in order to delineate the indications for surgery in these patients, a retrospective analysis of 53 consecutive patients treated with parathyroidectomy was conducted. subtotal thyroidectomy was done in 37 of 45 patients undergoing their initial operations for hpt. eight additional patients were referred after failed operations. of 33 patients with preoperative bone pain, 70% improved. joint pain improved in 87% of 30 patients, pruritus improved in 81% of 27 patients, and preoperative malaise improved in 73% of 33 patients after parathyroidectomy. abdominal pain and irritated eyes were unlikely to improve. the best predictors of a successful outcome were a markedly elevated preoperative immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (mid-region) level and an elevated alkaline phosphatase level. there were no perioperative deaths. one patient (1.6%) had a recurrent laryngeal nerve injury, and one patient required reoperation for a neck hematoma. no patient had permanent hypoparathyroidism, but transient hypocalcemia (less than 7 mg/dl) occurred in 22%. postoperative hypocalcemia correlated with elevated preoperative alkaline phosphatase levels (r2 = 0.247).
a case-control study of alzheimer's disease in australia. we conducted a case-control study of clinically diagnosed alzheimer's disease (ad) on 170 cases aged 52 to 96 years, and 170 controls matched for age, sex and, where possible, the general practice of origin. trained lay interviewers naive to the hypotheses and to the clinical status of the elderly person carried out risk-factor interviews with informants. significant odds ratios were found for 4 variables: a history of either dementia, probable ad, or down's syndrome in a 1st-degree relative, and underactivity as a behavioral trait in both the recent and more distant past. previously reported or suggested associations not confirmed by this study include head injury, starvation, thyroid disease, analgesic abuse, antacid use (aluminum exposure), alcohol abuse, smoking, and being left-handed.
in vivo rheologic effects of lipid apheresis techniques: comparison of dextran sulfate ldl adsorption and heparin induced ldl precipitation. the effects of two different ldl apheresis techniques, heparin-induced ldl precipitation (help) and dextran sulfate ldl adsorption (dsa), were compared in six patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. total and ldl cholesterol were effectively lowered with both techniques. the reduction of serum triglycerides was more pronounced with dsa, whereas the reduction of hdl cholesterol was more pronounced with help. single sessions using both techniques immediately reduced whole blood and plasma viscosity, as well as erythrocyte aggregation. serum fibrinogen decreased by 62% (help) and 11% (dsa). maintenance lipid apheresis administered 1 time per week resulted in a sustained reduction of total and ldl cholesterol and was associated with a sustained improvement in blood flow properties. data suggest that besides serum fibrinogen, serum lipoproteins may adversely effect the rheologic characteristics of blood.
a discriminant validity study of negative symptoms with a special focus on depression and antipsychotic medication. if the construct validity of the negative symptom syndrome is to be established, the conceptual and operational overlap between negative symptoms and other syndromes such as depression and the effects of medication must be explained. the author assessed 26 patients with schizophrenia and 21 patients without schizophrenia, most of whom had depression, at the end of an average 2-week drug washout period and after approximately 2 months of psychotropic medication administration. negative symptoms were remarkably consistent in patients with schizophrenia despite pharmacological intervention. in contrast, the patients without schizophrenia manifested significant decreases in negative symptoms.
thrombus in a natural left ventricle during left ventricular assist: another thromboembolic risk factor. systemic thromboembolism is one of the serious complications during use of a left ventricular assist system (lvas). the authors' original lvas has excellent antithrombogenicity to reduce this risk, but thrombus formation in a natural left ventricle (lv) is another risk factor for systemic embolization. we used our lvas in 22 patients. of these, lv wall motion was studied in 15, and a smoke-like echo disclosed thrombus in the lv in eight. when lvas sufficiently supported the systemic circulation, lv wall motion was irregular upon closure of the aortic valve. upon recovery of lv function and decrease of lvas flow, the smoke-like echo diminished and lv thrombus decreased in one, but lv thrombus remained unchanged or increased in seven. systemic administration of antithrombotic agents had an unclear effect. seven of eight patients with lv thrombus on echo died during or after lvas. in these seven, a high incidence of lv thrombus (71%), and systemic embolism to the brain (29%) or kidney (86%), were revealed at necropsy. we subsequently used local heparinization to prevent lv thrombus formation. one patient with a smoke-like echo had no evidence of lv thrombus or systemic embolism. during lv assist, careful management of the lvas, and intra-lv heparinization should be considered to reduce the risk of thrombus formation in the natural lv.
computerized neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy. the value of a range of computer-aided tests in the neuropsychological assessment was investigated in 94-177 children with epilepsy, aged 8-18 years, compared with 68-161 controls in the same age group. children from the age of 8 years could cope with rather complex tests in a wide range of functions: reaction time measurements, motor speed, information processing, and memory. the speed of performance tended to increase with age in both groups, with differences in information processing becoming apparent from the age of 12 years. the precise control of stimulus and response required to define the mainly minor differences between the epilepsy and control groups can only be fulfilled by computerized testing, which should undergo further refinement including voice and language recognition, followed by artificial intelligence.
balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by a single bifoil (2 x 19 mm) or trefoil (3 x 15 mm) catheter. the efficacy of balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by a bifoil (2 x 19 mm) or trefoil (3 x 15 mm) catheter (single catheter technique) was assessed in 53 patients (mean age 28) with mitral stenosis, most of whom were women. the procedure was unsuccessful in three patients. after balloon dilatation the left atrial pressure decreased from 22 mm hg to 13 mm hg and the mitral valve gradient from 12 mm hg to 4 mm hg. the mitral valve area increased from 0.7 cm2 to 2.1 cm2. exercise time on the standard bruce protocol increased from 3.9 minutes to 7.2 minutes. in 22 (44%) patients mitral regurgitation developed or the grade of regurgitation increased. left to right shunts with pulmonary to systemic flow ratios greater than 1:5 were detected in four patients. transient cerebrovascular episodes developed in two patients. one patient died after emergency valve replacement for severe mitral regurgitation. balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by the single catheter technique with the bifoil or trefoil catheters is an effective treatment for patients with mitral stenosis. mild mitral regurgitation is a frequent complication of the procedure.
motor dysfunction in hiv-infected patients without clinically detectable central-nervous deficit. motor tests were performed in 50 hiv-infected patients in all stages according to the current cdc classification, but without any clinically evident central nervous system deficit, and the results compared with an age-matched control group. patients were excluded from the study if there was alcohol or drug abuse, fever and/or opportunistic cerebral infection. the parameters tested were postural tremor of the outstretched hands, most rapid voluntary alternating index finger movements (mram) and rise time of most rapid index finger extensions (mrc). whereas tremor peak frequencies did not differ significantly in the patients and controls, mram and rise times of mrcs showed significant slowing in the patient group. morphologically, the motor test performance of the hiv-infected patients was similar to that of patients with manifest basal ganglia disease (parkinson's, huntington's and wilson's diseases). mri scans of all patients were normal. it is concluded that in hiv-infected patients there is a very early subclinical central nervous system affection, especially of the basal ganglia, which is detectable with appropriate, quantitative motor function tests. these functional abnormalities precede the structural alterations in the mri scans.
infrainguinal revascularization for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. we studied the efficacy of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. the patency of 42 femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypasses, performed for limb salvage in 37 patients with end-stage renal disease, was assessed with doppler ultrasonography and dye tests. patency rates and limb salvage were determined by life-table analysis. average age was 45 years (range, 28 to 61 years); 23 of the 37 were men. twenty-three patients had diabetes mellitus, and 16 were smokers. bypass procedures were done in 32 instances while the patients were maintained with chronic hemodialysis and in five instances with peritoneal dialysis; in five instances the patients had had successful renal transplantation. indications for revascularization included pain at rest, nonhealing ulcer, or distal gangrene. femoropopliteal bypass was done in 32 limbs; 10 were more distal procedures. reversed saphenous vein was the conduit in 30 cases; prosthetic material was used in the remainder. autogenous material was used in all distal bypasses. four patients required graft revision during the initial hospitalization, but none thereafter. two patients died within the operative period, nine within 18 months of operation. nine major operations were required. three-month cumulative graft patency was achieved in 41 cases and corresponding limb salvage in 33 cases; 18-month patency was achieved in 34 cases and overall limb salvage in 33 cases. success of limb salvage most closely correlated with preoperative ankle-brachial ratio and level of bypass required.
pheochromocytoma with electrocardiographic change mimicking angina pectoris, and cyclic change in direct arterial pressure--a case report. a forty-two-year-old man was admitted because of chest pain. electrocardiograms at admission showed horizontal st depression in leads, ii, iii, avf, v4, v5, and v6. direct blood pressure monitoring revealed cyclic change between 160/100 mmhg and 70/50 mmhg and heart rate between 80/sec and 120/sec at fifteen minute intervals. the plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations were elevated during the episodes of hypertension. pheochromocytoma was found in the right adrenal gland. these cyclic changes in blood pressure and heart rate are an aid for diagnosis.
vasospasm contributes to monosodium glutamate-induced headache. consumption of monosodium glutamate has long been considered to precipitate headaches in susceptible patients. in this study the direct effects of glutamate and its metabolite, glutamine, on arterial contractility were examined using rings of rabbit aorta. in a high concentration glutamate caused significant concentration-dependent contractions (ec50, 10(-1)m; maximum tension, 188.4 +/- 33.3 mg wt tension/mg tissue). agonists and antagonists for alpha-adrenergic, histaminergic, serotonergic, cholinergic, and gaba-nergic receptors as well as inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis failed to influence glutamate contractions. at high concentrations (10(-5)m) the calcium channel blocker, verapamil, inhibited the glutamate response. glutamate and glutamine both exhibited concentration dependent relaxation of norepinephrine (ne), phenylephrine (pe), histamine, serotonin (5-ht), and prostaglandin f2 alpha (pgf2 alpha)-induced contractions. kainic acid (10(-4)m), an agonist of one subpopulation of central glutamate receptor, potentiated glutamate-induced vasoconstriction; a higher concentration (10(-3)m) produced an irreversible inhibition of glutamate contractility. only the central glutamate receptor antagonist, ketamine (10(-4)-10(-2)m), induced a reversible, concentration dependent inhibition of glutamate-induced contractions. glutamate contractility was not dependent on extracellular calcium, an intact endothelium or neuronal function. these results demonstrate a direct effect of glutamate on peripheral arterial tone. dietary consumption of large quantities of msg may represent a serious health hazard to certain individuals with pre-existing vascular disease.
carcinoma of the cervix: value of mr imaging in detecting parametrial involvement. in patients with cervical carcinoma, precise knowledge of parametrial tumor extension affects the therapeutic decision between surgery and radiation therapy. the purpose of this prospective study was to determine the efficacy of mr imaging in detecting the presence or absence of parametrial invasion in patients with cervical cancer thought clinically to be confined to the cervix. twenty-five consecutive patients were included in the study. all patients underwent radical hysterectomy or total abdominal hysterectomy and had detailed histologic evaluation of the parametrium. ten had pathologic evidence of parametrial invasion; in the remaining 15, no parametrial invasion was identified pathologically. mr findings were compared with pathologic findings in all cases. for determining parametrial involvement, mr imaging had an accuracy of 88%, a sensitivity of 100%, and a specificity of 80%. our results suggest that mr imaging is a reliable means of assessing parametrial invasion by cervical cancer.
extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas: technique and results in 37 patients. although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) fistulas, this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy, anosmia, and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas. extracranial repair, on the other hand, produces no central nervous system morbidity, preserves olfaction, and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence. although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of csf fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists, this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature. we report here our experience with 37 patients with csf rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair. the etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22, traumatic in 6, and spontaneous in 9. the fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques: external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients, transmastoid in 9, transseptosphenoid in 7, and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3. in 32 of the 37 patients (86%) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure. of the 5 patients requiring a second operation, the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97%. complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis. the authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas, extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of csf rhinorrhea and otorrhea.
an evaluation of the level 1 blood warmer series the level 1 blood warmer series comprises three infusion sets and two blood warmers of different power outputs. all systems were found to be extremely efficient, with the larger 500 series capable of warming the equivalent of 80 units of blood an hour almost to body temperature.
human atherosclerotic coronary artery xenografts: a model for investigation of transluminal recanalization. a model for testing transluminal recanalization techniques was developed. fragments of human atherosclerotic coronary arteries were transplanted into carotid arteries of dogs and evaluated by angiographic, angioscopic, and histologic study within a three-month period. an inflammatory response was most intense within the first week. by two weeks no inflammation was noted. total occlusion (n = 13) and stenosis (n = 11) of the carotid arteries were achieved without complications. the model is easy to produce within a short period and the arterial occlusion resembles human vascular disease. this model has been used to evaluate laser recanalization of vascular obstructions.
the current spectrum of peptic ulcer disease in the older age groups. not only has there been a relative increase in the prevalence of peptic ulcer disease (pud) among america's older age groups, but the characteristics of pud in these patients differ significantly from those of the general population. seventy-two consecutive patients 60 years of age or older who underwent operation for pud between 1984 and 1989 were studied. the unusual features in these patients were 1) 92 per cent required emergency operation, 2) 57 per cent with perforated pud were female, 3) 85 per cent had duodenal pathology, 4) 28 per cent were currently taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, and 5) over one half of all patients had serious postoperative complications. the increasing incidence and associated serious complications of pud in the elderly population present new challenges to physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.
changing arteriosclerotic disease patterns and management strategies in lower-limb-threatening ischemia. from january 1, 1974 to december 31, 1989, we treated 2829 patients with critical lower-extremity ischemia. in the last 5 years, 13% of patients had therapeutically significant stenoses or occlusions above and below the groin, while 35% had them at two or three levels below the inguinal ligament. unobstructed arterial flow to the distal half of the thigh was present in 26% of patients, and 16% had unobstructed flow to the upper third of the leg with occlusions of all three leg arteries distal to this point and reconstitution of some patent named artery in the lower leg or foot. in the last 2 years, 99% of all patients with a threatened limb and without severe organic mental syndrome or midfoot gangrene were amenable to revascularization by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta), arterial bypass, or a combination of the two, although some distal arteries used for bypass insertion were heavily diseased or isolated segments without an intact plantar arch. limb salvage was achieved and maintained in more than 90% of recent patient cohorts, with a mean procedural mortality rate of 3.3%. recent strategies that contributed to these results include (1) distal origin short vein grafts from the below-knee popliteal or tibial arteries to an ankle or foot artery (291 cases); (2) combined pta and bypass (245 cases); (3) more distal pta of popliteal and tibial artery stenoses (233 cases); (4) use of in situ or ectopic reversed autogenous vein for infrapopliteal bypasses, even when vein diameter was 3 to 4 mm; (5) composite-sequential femoropopliteal-distal (ptfe/vein) bypasses; (6) reintervention when a procedure thrombosed (637 cases) or was threatened by a hemodynamically significant inflow, outflow, or graft lesion (failing graft, 252 cases); (7) frequent follow-up to detect threatening lesions before graft thrombosis occurred and to permit correction of lesions by pta (58%) or simple reoperation; and (8) unusual approaches to all infrainguinal arteries to facilitate secondary operations, despite scarring and infection. primary major amputation rates decreased from 41% to 5% and total amputation rates decreased from 49% to 14%. aggressive policies to save threatened limbs thus are supported.
response to treatment with antihistamines in a family with myotonia congenita. in a family in which myotonia congenita was found in five generations, both great-grandparents of the index case were affected. in subsequent generations mild and severely affected cases were clearly segregated down parallel lines of this family. the grandmother of the index case had noted improvement with an antihistamine. when the index case was prescribed trimeprazine, she showed a striking reduction in severity of symptoms. antihistamines seem to deserve further evaluation as a safe and effective treatment for myotonia congenita.
thoracoscopic carbon dioxide laser treatment of bullous emphysema. a new technique of thoracoscopic laser ablation of pulmonary bullae suitable for patients with multiple bullae and diffuse emphysema was developed and assessed in 22 patients. 20 of 22 patients survived. pre-operative and postoperative functional evaluation is available for the 11 patients followed up for more than a month; at 1 to 3 months postoperatively there were increases in fvc (mean 2.0 litres pre-operatively to 2.7 litres postoperatively, p less than 0.001), in fev1 (0.74 to 1.06 litres, p = 0.01), and in maximum exercise treadmill times (5.4 min to 8.0 min, p less than 0.01). postoperative air leaks lasted a mean of 13 days and usually resolved spontaneously. other complications were bleeding (1 patient) and unilateral acute lung injury (1 patient). these results suggest that selected patients with diffuse emphysema and pulmonary bullae may benefit from thoracoscopic carbon dioxide laser ablation.
effects of enalapril and neuroendocrine activation on prognosis in severe congestive heart failure (follow-up of the consensus trial). consensus trial study group. this study enrolled 253 patients with severe heart failure (new york heart association functional class iv) from 35 centers in scandinavia, randomly assigned to treatment with placebo or enalapril, in addition to their usual treatment for heart failure. after an initial titration period, the daily doses of enalapril ranged from 2.5 to 40 mg. at the end of the trial, 46% of the placebo-treated patients and 61% of the enalapril-treated patients were alive (p = 0.003); the survival figures at 8 months after completion of the trial were 32 and 48%, respectively (p = 0.001); and 21 and 30%, respectively (p = 0.006) at the 2-year follow-up. in the placebo group, there was a significant positive association between mortality and baseline levels of norepinephrine, epinephrine, angiotensin ii, aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide; no such association was found in the enalapril-treated patients. the results suggest that the effects of enalapril on mortality are related to a counteraction of the neuroendocrine activation in general and to the renin-angiotensin system in particular.
mortality in acute stroke with atrial fibrillation. the italian acute stroke study group. we compared 211 consecutive patients who had acute ischemic hemispheric stroke and atrial fibrillation with 837 consecutive patients who had stroke without atrial fibrillation. the atrial fibrillation group included a higher frequency of women, older subjects, and those with a severe neurologic deficit, abnormal computed tomogram, and elevated heart rate. the 1-month case-fatality rate in the atrial fibrillation group was 27% while that in the group without atrial fibrillation was 14%. the 6-month case-fatality rates in the two groups were 40% and 20%, respectively. the risk of death attributable to atrial fibrillation, adjusted for the effect of other prognostic factors, was significant at 1 month (relative risk = 1.55) and at 6 months (relative risk = 1.74). the causes of death were equally distributed in the two groups during both the acute and subacute phases. we conclude that atrial fibrillation is a negative prognostic factor in patients hospitalized for acute stroke. nevertheless, cerebral embolism alone does not completely explain the increase in mortality for stroke patients with atrial fibrillation. other associated pathogenetic mechanisms must also be taken into account.
novel antigens characteristic of neuroendocrine malignancies. the authors describe the immunochemical detection, biochemical characterization, and tissue distribution of neuroendocrine antigens recognized by three newly developed monoclonal antibodies (moab) obtained after immunization of mice with the variant small cell lung cancer (sclc) cell line nci-h82. rnl-1 was reactive with neuroendocrine tissues similar to the sclc cluster-1 moab, known to recognize n-cam. antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 are directed against different epitopes on the same proteinaceous complex. both moab recognize an intracellularly located, water-soluble antigen which has a subunit composition with a protein triplet ranging in molecular weight between 44 and 45 kilodaltons (kd) next to a component of approximately 30 kd. the antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 reacted with a subset of neuroendocrine tissues and neuroendocrine neoplasms. in lung cancer both antibodies reacted only with some sclc and carcinoids and not with nonneuroendocrine lung carcinomas. the potential diagnostic applicability of antibodies rnl-1, rnl-2, and rnl-3 is discussed.
pancreatogastrostomy: a safe drainage procedure after pancreatoduodenectomy. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of pancreaticogastrostomy as an alternative method of restoring pancreaticointestinal continuity after pancreaticoduodenectomy. since 1975, 45 patients have undergone pancreaticogastrostomy after pancreaticoduodenectomy at our institution. pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed for pancreatic carcinoma (24 patients), ampullary carcinoma (8 patients), duodenal carcinoma (4 patients), common bile duct carcinoma (4 patients), pancreatic islet cell carcinoma (1 patient), trauma (1 patient), extensive colon carcinoma (1 patient), chronic pancreatitis (1 patient), and gastroduodenal artery aneurysm (1 patient). there was one operative death, for an overall operative mortality rate of 2%, and seven patients had major postoperative complications, for an overall morbidity rate of 15%. no pancreatic anastomotic leaks or other complications related to the pancreaticogastrostomy occurred. twenty-four patients have died of recurrent carcinoma, with a mean survival of 25 months (range, 5 to 66 months), and 20 patients are alive and well, with a mean follow-up of 27 months (range, 2 to 106 months). eight of these patients are alive 2 or more years after operation and four do not have exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. this experience confirms that pancreaticogastrostomy is a safe method of pancreatic drainage after pancreaticoduodenectomy and suggests that it may have technical advantages and therefore merits more widespread application.
accessory arm--dysraphism or disparity? case report. the case of a 3-month-old infant with an accessory third arm is reported. the extra appendage was attached at the midcervical region and was associated with posterior cervical dysraphism and a cervical cord lipoma. possible theories of origin are examined.
surgical correction of the snapping iliopsoas tendon. eighteen patients with 20 symptomatic hips underwent lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon for persistent painful snapping of this "internal" variety of snapping hip. we referred to the pathologic, painful snapping of the iliopsoas in the deep anterior groin as the "internal" snapping hip. this is in contrast to the more common and better-known "external" snapping that involves the greater trochanter and its overlying soft tissues. the results of our iliopsoas lengthening procedure are presented here. lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon was accomplished by step cutting of the tendinous portion of the iliopsoas. the pathoanatomy of this poorly understood symptom complex was described in 1984 paper from this institution and is reviewed here. iliopsoas bursography demonstrated a sudden jerking movement of the iliopsoas tendon between the anterior inferior iliac spine and iliopectineal eminence, synchronous with the patient's pain and often accompanied by an audible snap. the average preoperative duration of symptoms was 2.9 years, and the average length of postoperative followup was 25 months. all patients, except one, had a marked reduction in the frequency of snapping after tendon lengthening, and 14 of 20 hips had no snapping postoperatively. of the six patients who had recurrence of snapping, all but one stated that this occurred much less frequently and was much less painful compared to the preoperative state. two hips required reoperation. postoperatively, only three patients complained of subjective weakness, and most patients were unlimited in physical activity with return to activities such as competitive football, pole vaulting, and long-distance running.
chylothorax as presenting manifestation of adenocarcinoma with probable gastric primary. chylothorax is an unusual complication of various malignant neoplasms, generally lymphomas. the few reported cases of chylothorax with gastric and other abdominal malignancies have involved large abdominal masses with prominent adenopathy and chylous ascites. we describe a patient in whom chylothorax was the presenting manifestation of an adenocarcinoma with probable gastric primary, developing prior to any clinical or radiologic evidence of tumor.
aortic occlusion and vascular isolation allowing avascular hepatic resection. occlusion of the supraceliac abdominal aorta and hepatic vascular isolation were employed in a series of 15 patients as a definitive method to allow avascular hepatic resection. the series was compared with an earlier group of patients treated conventionally. in the avascular hepatic resection group there was no mortality; hypotension did not occur at the time of hepatic vascular isolation; rapid, accurate excision of the hepatic lesions could be achieved in a bloodless field; resection of midline lesions and those involving the great veins was possible; and "segmentectomies," or resections crossing segmental boundaries, could be performed where previously formal hepatic lobectomies were required. concomitantly, the greatest amount of uninvolved hepatic parenchyma remained in situ. there was increased ease of operative management, reduced blood loss, and reduced operating time (mean, 2.8 hours).
jejunal-rectal fistula as a complication of postoperative radiotherapy. we present the case of a patient with an unusual, complex enteric fistula with multiple tracts and associated abscesses. the fistula was a late complication of radiotherapy, administered three years earlier, after resection for carcinoma of the sigmoid colon. most of the small bowel was involved in the radiation-induced disease. a wide resection was performed successfully. this report reviews current literature on intra-abdominal postradiotherapy injuries, particularly intestinal fistulae.
surgical management of nonparasitic cystic liver disease. we report clinical features, surgical management, recurrences, and follow-up study of 12 patients with simple hepatic cyst, 11 patients with polycystic liver disease, and 19 patients with cystadenoma who were surgically treated over a 25-year period. the median age of patients was 48 years, and 37 women and 5 men were in the series. the most common presenting symptom and physical finding were chronic abdominal pain and tenderness in the right upper quadrant. the most commonly associated disease was polycystic kidney disease, which was an associated finding in 5 of the 11 patients with polycystic liver disease (45%). the most valuable diagnostic studies in all groups were computed tomography and ultrasonography. the location of the disease was bilobar in patients with polycystic liver disease, with a right lobe predominance in 18% of patients. the right lobe was also predominant in 83% of patients with simple hepatic cyst and 58% of patients with cystadenoma. of all solitary cystic lesions in the left lobe, 75% of them were cystadenomas. of the 66 surgical procedures performed, aspiration was associated with a failure rate of 100%; partial excision, a failure rate of 61%; and total excision and liver resection, a failure rate of 0%. orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in three patients and was associated with two early deaths. partial excision relieved symptoms in three patients (43%) with polycystic liver disease. total excision, enucleation, or liver resection with cyst(s) is the treatment of choice for non-parasitic cystic lesions of the liver.
thyroglobulin level as a predictive factor of tumoral recurrence in differentiated thyroid cancer. ninety-eight patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma were studied. actuarial methods were used to investigate the 10-yr probability of survival (ps) and disease-free survival (pdfs). our results show that the pdfs is a function of: (1) clinicopathologic stage: stages i-ii, pdfs = 90.9% +/- 5.0% versus stages iii-iv, pdfs = 55.9% +/- 17.8% (p less than 0.005); (2) age: age less than 45 yr, pdfs = 87.2% +/- 10.0% versus age greater than or equal to 45 yr, pdfs = 66.6% +/- 12.0% (p less than 0.002); and (3) plasma thyroglobulin (tg) levels: tg less than or equal to 23 ng/ml, pdfs = 100% versus tg greater than 23 ng/ml, pdfs = 68.3% +/- 10.6% (p less than 0.005). using the multivariate analysis of proportional risk, the regression coefficients obtained (stage: beta = 0.7615; age: beta = 1.6398, and tg: beta = 1.7607) allowed us to establish two different groups of risk of relapse on the basis of a prognostic index.
potential value of hormone receptor assay in carcinoma in situ of breast. the estrogen receptor (er) expression of invasive breast cancer has been extensively studied both biochemically and with specific monoclonal antibodies against er. relatively few studies have attempted to characterize er pattern in breast carcinoma in situ (cis) and in other premalignant lesions. in the current study, the authors investigated the pattern of er expression in 62 cases of breast cis, 30 of which had a component of invasive cancer, and 36 cases of atypical hyperplasia. paraffin sections of formalin-fixed breast tissue underwent enzyme pretreatment to expose nuclear antigenic sites as previously described. breast tissues then underwent estrogen immunocytochemical assay using specific monoclonal antibodies (abbott laboratory, chicago, il). the cases were evaluated for heterogeneity, intensity of staining, and percentage of er-positive cells. an attempt was made to study the relation between the pattern of er expression, nuclear pleomorphism, and type of cis. the results of er immunocytochemical assay showed positive nuclear staining for er in 75% of the cis, 73% of cis with invasive cancer, and 100% of atypical hyperplasias. er expression in cis agreed with that in the invasive carcinoma in 29 of 30 cases. this study also suggests that comedocarcinoma has a higher incidence of negative er expression than the other types of cis, particularly when it is associated with significant nuclear pleomorphism. there was no significant difference in er tumor heterogeneity between premalignant and malignant lesions.
doppler color-flow images from a stenosed arterial model: interpretation of flow patterns. the capability of the recently introduced doppler color-flow mapping devices to accurately detect flow patterns in the region of an arterial stenosis was evaluated by use of an in vitro flow model. pulsatile flow simulating that in a low-resistance vessel was induced through a straight acrylic tube, which alternatively contained axisymmetric stenoses of 0%, 20%, 40%, 60%, and 80% diameter reduction. doppler color-flow mapper images were taken in realtime along the tube midplane from 0 to 8 diameters downstream of each stenosis. comparison of the doppler color-flow mapping results with similarly recorded flow visualization (hydrogen bubble) images showed a close correspondence of key features of the flow, including detection of a high-velocity, centerline jet and near-wall separated flow zones. distinctive flow patterns exist with each stenotic case, and these should be of considerable value in diagnosing clinical disease conditions.
pharmacokinetics of tiaprofenic acid after oral administration in fasting patients during and between migraine attacks. this study examined the pharmacokinetics of 300 mg of tiaprofenic acid, a nsaid belonging to the 2-arylpropionic class, as a single oral dose, in 10 migraine patients during and out of migraine attacks. plasma concentration of tiaprofenic acid was determined by hplc analysis. drug absorption appeared to be the same during and out of migraine attacks (absorption half life: during attack, 0.249 +/- 0.122 hr; out of attack, 0.249 +/- 0.105 hr; maximum plasma concentration: during attack, 37.8 +/- 9.8 ug/ml; out of attack, 40.1 +/- 13.2 ug/ml). the other pharmacokinetic parameters evaluated were not affected by headache attacks as well. we conclude that tiaprofenic acid absorption and metabolism are not affected by migraine attacks. also, our data suggest that tiaprofenic acid might be useful in the treatment of migraine.
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy: current therapy. spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality. numerous types of surgical management have been described, but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted. the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976, as well as the 11-year experience at our institution. twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution. the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births. among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage, an 82% overall survival was achieved, whereas only 25% of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived (p = .006). hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma, packing the damaged liver, and draining the operative site. more aggressive surgical techniques, such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy, should be reserved for refractory cases.
spontaneous alterations in coronary blood flow velocity before and after coronary angioplasty in patients with severe angina. cyclic coronary artery flow variations with a spontaneous decline in coronary blood flow to very low levels have been documented in stenosed canine coronary arteries with endothelial injury. these flow variations are associated with transient platelet aggregation and dislodgment and the release of selected mediators, including thromboxane a2 and serotonin. however, cyclic or spontaneous flow variations have not been demonstrated in stenosed coronary arteries in humans. in this study, the hypothesis was tested that spontaneous coronary blood flow velocity variations occur in some patients with stenosed coronary arteries before or after coronary artery angioplasty. thus, 13 patients with severe and limiting angina underwent intracoronary pulsed doppler velocimetry of their dilated artery immediately before and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, whereas 9 control patients underwent velocimetry of an angiographically normal coronary artery. a 3f catheter with a 20 mhz doppler crystal was positioned to achieve a maximal stable signal, and the flow velocity signal was recorded continuously for 20 min. spontaneous flow velocity variations (greater than or equal to 38% change in doppler frequency shift with wide morphologic changes) were present in 3 of the 13 patients tested. spontaneous flow velocity variations occurred before angioplasty in one patient, after angioplasty in another and both before and after angioplasty in a third. in addition, 2 of the 13 patients, 1 with spontaneous coronary artery flow velocity variations before angioplasty, had frank vasospasm in an adjacent area just distal to the area of coronary dilation immediately after balloon inflation. these data establish that spontaneous coronary artery flow velocity variations occur in some patients with severe and limiting angina before and after coronary angioplasty. these variations may be related to platelet aggregation or coronary vasoconstriction, or both, at sites of endothelial injury resulting from plaque fissuring or ulceration and endothelial and medial injury occurring during coronary angioplasty.
a case of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. ii: the sterol content of a cataractous lens. the cholestanol content of a cataractous lens nucleus from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (ctx) was quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be 0.27 micrograms per mg freeze-dried lens tissue. the cholestanol-cholesterol ratio of 1.7% in the lens nucleus was similar to that in the serum of the ctx patient. the cholestanol content and cholestanol-cholesterol ratio in the ctx lens were approximately four-fold and six-fold greater respectively than the mean levels found in three senile cataractous lens nuclei analysed simultaneously for comparative purposes.
lower leg subcutaneous blood flow during walking and passive dependency in chronic venous insufficiency. the blood flow in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of the lower leg of eight normal subjects and 19 patients with chronic venous insufficiency was measured. the 133xe-washout technique was used with portable cdt1(c1) detectors and a data storage unit. only those patients with ulcers and a systolic blood pressure at the toe of greater than or equal to 60 mm were investigated. in the controls the relative blood flow during sitting was 0.61 (range 0.35-0.80). in the patients it was 0.46 (range 0.22-0.87). this difference was not significant. during walking the blood flow increased in controls as well as in the patients compared to the value determined in the sitting position (p = 0.0078 and p = 0.0028, respectively, wilcoxon matched-pairs test). the relative blood-flow rate during walking was 0.96 (range 0.60-1.58) in the controls, and 1.04 (range 0.49-1.46) in the patients. the difference between the normal subjects and the patients was not significant (p = 0.79). we conclude from our studies that patients with venous insufficiency are able to increase their blood flow during walking to the same extent as normal controls.
aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis following pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in aids patients: results of a blinded dose-comparison study using an ultrasonic nebulizer purpose: to compare the efficacy and safety of three different doses of prophylactic aerosol pentamidine in patients with one prior episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (pcp) and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. patients and methods: the design of the study was a double-blind, randomized, dose-comparison clinical trial conducted at 13 medical centers within the united states. in stage i of the trial, patients were randomized to receive either 5 mg, 60 mg, or 120 mg of aerosol pentamidine delivered biweekly with the fisoneb (fisons, inc., rochester, new york) ultrasonic nebulizer. after 24 weeks of therapy, patients entered stage ii of the trial, where the 5-mg group was re-randomized to either the 60-mg or 120-mg group. results: one hundred seventy-five patients entered stage i of the trial and received prophylaxis for a mean of 123.6 days. seven assigned to the 5-mg biweekly dosing schedule had a confirmed recurrence of pcp, compared with none in the 60-mg group (p = 0.007) and three in the 120-mg group (p = 0.304). during stage ii of the trial, eight patients in the 60-mg group and one additional patient in the 120-mg group had recurrent pcp. after 52 weeks of observation, the likelihood of being pcp-free was 88.0% in the 60-mg group and 93% in the 120-mg group (p = 0.712). minor adverse events related to aerosol pentamidine administration included cough, taste perversion, chest pain, bronchospasm, and dyspnea. these side effects were more common in the 60-mg and 120-mg treatment groups and resulted in withdrawal from the study by one patient. serious events were more common after 24 weeks of therapy and included asymptomatic hypoglycemia (five), pancreatitis (two), pneumothorax (one), and extrapulmonary pneumocystosis (one). conclusions: these results demonstrate that biweekly administration of 60 mg or 120 mg of aerosol pentamidine significantly decreases pcp recurrence when compared with a 5-mg regimen or findings in historic controls and is generally well tolerated. there is no significant difference in effect or safety between these two dosing regimens in patients followed for at least 52 weeks of therapy.
peripheral arterial occlusive disease: prospective comparison of mr angiography and color duplex us with conventional angiography. conventional angiography, two-dimensional inflow magnetic resonance (mr) angiography, and color duplex ultrasound (us) were performed on 12 patients in a blinded, prospective study. the ability to grade arterial lesions and plan revascularization interventions were compared. arterial lesions were categorized as nonsignificant (0%-49% diameter reduction) or significant (50%-100% diameter reduction). determination of nonsignificant and significant lesions with mr angiography was in agreement with that at conventional angiography in 100 of 140 lesions (71%). agreement between results of conventional angiography and color duplex us occurred with 114 of 123 infrainguinal lesions (93%). twenty-one vascular interventions were planned by using conventional angiography; there was agreement with color duplex us in 11 cases and mr angiography in five. color duplex us performed well in the assessment of infrainguinal disease but was limited in the evaluation of iliac segments because of nonvisualization. the iliac region was visualized in more patients with mr angiography than with color duplex us, but image quality with mr angiography was inconsistent. strategies to improve mr angiography of the peripheral vasculature merit further study.
relevance of focal cerebral ischemia models. experience with fibrinolytic agents. despite the limitations of individual ischemia models, experience with fibrinolytic agents suggests that 1) early intervention with rt-pa may result in rapid thrombolysis, functional recovery, and decreased mortality in small animal stroke thromboembolism models, 2) rt-pa has no general effect on clinical recovery following mca occlusion and reperfusion in the nonhuman primate at dose rates capable of producing very high circulating rt-pa levels, while u-pa has an apparently salutary effect, and 3) intravenous infusion of rt-pa or u-pa early after ischemia/infarction in several model systems is not associated with significant intracerebral hemorrhage. the true clinical relevance of these general impressions must await the completion of human studies and studies in well-conceived models designed to define the vascular consequences to be expected from reperfusion achievable with thrombolytic agents.
acute splenic sequestration crisis in two adults with sickle cell disease: us, ct, and mr imaging findings. acute splenic sequestration crisis (assc) is a rare complication in adults with sickle cell disease that is diagnosed clinically by means of sudden splenic enlargement and a rapid fall in hematocrit. two cases of assc in adults with heterozygous sickle cell disease (sickle cell-thalassemia and sickle cell-hemoglobin c disease) were studied with use of duplex doppler ultrasound (us), computed tomography (ct), and magnetic resonance (mr) imaging. in both cases, us showed patency of the splenic vein and multiple hypoechoic lesions on the periphery of an enlarged spleen that were of low attenuation on ct scans and hyperintense on both t1- and t2-weighted mr images. these findings were believed to be suggestive of subacute hemorrhage. this was confirmed pathologically in one case and suggested in the other by the presence of a low-signal-intensity ring, probably hemosiderin, surrounding one of the lesions. also, the remainder of the spleen in both patients was of normal signal intensity, unlike the diminished signal intensity seen in patients with homozygous sickle cell disease. further study is needed to determine the role of imaging in the diagnosis and treatment of assc.
ecmo assisted angioplasty for cardiomyopathy patients with unstable angina. patients who are otherwise unsuitable candidates for coronary bypass surgery or standard coronary angioplasty (ptca) may be successfully treated with ptca during ecmo. five patients (3 men, 2 women), with a mean age of 57 years, are reported on here. they were not considered good candidates for standard therapy because of poor left ventricular function (mean ef, 24; range, 16 to 28%). patients were supported by percutaneous femoral bypass using a bard cps machine, and underwent successful ptca of either two vessels (three patients) or three vessels (two patients); in addition, one patient had dilatation of a stenotic aortic valve. patients were supported with ecmo for 26 to 140 (mean 104) minutes, and required transfusion with 0 to 4 (mean 2) units of blood during or after the procedure. complications included groin hematoma in two patients. all were discharged within 4 days of the procedure. follow-up of the patients has been completed (4-7 mo) with no further hospitalizations for unstable angina. all patients remain in nyha class ii or iii. these data suggest that ecmo-assisted angioplasty is a safe and effective method of palliation of unstable angina associated with cardiomyopathy.
chronic therapy for congestive heart failure with benazepril hcl, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. benazepril hcl is an orally effective angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor previously shown to have significant acute hemodynamic benefits in patients with congestive heart failure. in this study, 21 patients with new york heart association class iii or iv congestive heart failure were treated with 2 to 15 mg of benazepril hcl as a single daily oral dose for 28 days to determine the clinical and hemodynamic value of chronic therapy. each patient underwent clinical evaluation during the 28-day period, as well as invasive hemodynamic studies on the first two and last two days of the trial. plasma ace activity and aldosterone levels fell significantly and renin levels rose after therapy. benazepril hcl produced significant (p less than 0.01) reductions in arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance, with corresponding increases in cardiac output and decreases in pulmonary artery wedge pressure. responses after 28 days of therapy were equivalent to those after the initial doses. clinical effects included reduced rest, exertional and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, as well as reduced peripheral edema. only one patient developed symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. thus, benazepril hcl, given once daily, is an effective and well tolerated oral agent for the chronic treatment of advanced congestive heart failure.
bilateral infrapatellar tendon rupture in a patient with jumper's knee. this is the fourth case report of bilateral infrapatellar tendon rupture as a result of indirect trauma in a patient without systemic disease. this is the only report we have found of jumper's knee leading to simultaneous infrapatellar tendon ruptures.
meningiomas mimicking cerebral schwannoma. a brain tumor with histological features reminiscent of schwannoma with underlying meningioangiomatosis was subjected to electron microscopic and immunohistochemical analysis, which confirmed the neoplasm as a meningioma. this prompted reexamination of a similar tumor, described in a previous publication as a cerebral schwannoma, with identical immunohistochemical techniques. the results obtained favored alteration of this diagnosis to that of meningioma. this experience has led the authors to recommend the use of immunohistochemistry techniques when evaluating unusual intracranial neoplasms.
prospective comparison of a conventional and an accelerated protocol for programmed ventricular stimulation in patients with coronary artery disease. background. this study compared the sensitivity, specificity, and efficiency of a "conventional" and "accelerated" programmed stimulation protocol in 293 patients with coronary artery disease who had a history of sustained or nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt). methods and results. in the conventional protocol, one and two extrastimuli were introduced during sinus rhythm and during basic drive trains at cycle lengths of 600 and 400 msec at the right ventricular apex and then at the outflow tract or septum. in the accelerated protocol, one, two, and then three extrastimuli were introduced at each of three basic drive train cycle lengths (350, 400, and 600 msec) at the right ventricular apex; the procedure was repeated at a second right ventricular site. six hundred thirty-four electrophysiological tests were performed using one of these two protocols either in the baseline state (293 tests) or during drug testing (341 tests). the yield of sustained, monomorphic vt was 89% with the conventional protocol and 92% with the accelerated protocol during baseline tests in patients who had a history of sustained vt (p = 0.05); 20% and 34%, respectively, during baseline tests in patients with a history of nonsustained vt (p = 0.06); and 70% and 77%, respectively, during drug testing (p = 0.2). to induce sustained, monomorphic vt, 10.1 +/- 5.0 (mean +/- sd) protocol steps and 14.4 +/- 8.7 minutes were required with the conventional protocol, compared with 4.0 +/- 3.7 steps and 5.6 +/- 6.1 minutes with the accelerated protocol (p less than 0.001 for each comparison). among the tests in which sustained, monomorphic vt was induced, sustained polymorphic vt or ventricular fibrillation was induced more often with the conventional protocol (3.6%) than with the accelerated protocol (0.9%, p = 0.05). conclusions. the efficiency of programmed stimulation can be improved by the early use of a basic drive train cycle length of 350 msec and three extrastimuli. compared with a conventional stimulation protocol, the accelerated protocol used in this study reduces the number of protocol steps and duration of time required to induce monomorphic vt by an average of more than 50% and improves the specificity of programmed stimulation without impairing the yield of monomorphic vt.
the relationships among umbilical artery velocimetry, fetal biophysical profile, and placental inflammation in preterm premature rupture of the membranes. the relationships among umbilical artery velocimetry, fetal biophysical profile, and placental inflammation in 44 consecutive patients with preterm premature rupture of the membranes were determined. all patients were followed up with daily fetal biophysical profiles and systolic/diastolic ratios. after delivery, placental pathologic examination for histologic evidence of infection (umbilical vasculitis) was performed in all cases according to a standard protocol. the longitudinal trends of fetal biophysical profile scores and systolic/diastolic ratios were analyzed for patients with and without umbilical vasculitis. analysis of the longitudinal trend during the period of 2 to 7 days before delivery showed that there were no differences of biophysical scores of systolic/diastolic ratios in either group. however, in the last examination, within 24 hours of delivery, patients with umbilical vasculitis had higher systolic/diastolic ratios and lower biophysical profile scores as compared with previous examinations. in addition, the biophysical profile score of the last examination 24 hours before delivery in patients with umbilical vasculitis was found to be significantly lower as compared with patients without umbilical vasculitis (mean +/- sd, 6.6 +/- 2.3 versus 8.2 +/- 2.4, respectively). these data suggest that subclinical stages of infection are associated with biophysical alterations of the fetoplacental unit (i.e., simultaneous decrease in fetal biophysical activities and increase in systolic/diastolic ratios). daily umbilical artery systolic/diastolic ratios, in conjunction with biophysical profiles, may be useful to follow up patients with preterm premature rupture of the membranes.
a prospective, randomized evaluation of the treatment of colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver. over a 4-year period (1982 to 1986), 91 patients with solitary or multiple metastases from colorectal cancer were stratified, based on findings at laparotomy, to one of three groups and then prospectively randomized to one of two treatment arms within each group. group a patients had solitary resectable metastases, group b patients had multiple, resectable metastases, and group c patients had multiple, unresectable metastases. patients were randomized to one of two treatment arms within a group: group a-arm a1: resection only, arm a2: resection and continuous hepatic artery infusion (chai) of fluorodeoxyuridine (fudr); group b-arm b1: resection and chai, arm b2: chai only; group c-arm c1: chai, arm c2: systemic fluorouracil followed by chai. median time to failure (ttf) was 31.8, 11.1, and 8.8 months for groups a, b, and c, respectively. arm a2 had an improved ttf when compared with arm a1 (p = .03). median survival correlated with extent of disease and was 37.3, 22.4, and 13.8 months for groups a, b, and c, respectively. survival was not changed by treatment variation (arms) within each group. two- and 5-year cumulative survivals for groups a, b, and c were 72.7% and 45.4%; 45.8% and 16.7%; and 31.7% and 3.2%, respectively. in patients with multiple metastases (groups b and c), those patients whose original tumor was a dukes' b had a significantly improved ttf and survival over those patients whose tumor was a dukes' c (p less than or equal to .02).
when is echocardiography unreliable in patients undergoing catheterization for pediatric cardiovascular disease? technologic advances in echocardiography (e.g., better spatial resolution, doppler, and color flow mapping) have improved our ability to demonstrate anatomy and physiology in previously problematic conditions, precluding catheterization and angiography in some instances. however, diagnostic catheterization remains necessary in other instances. the aims of this study were to determine whether echocardiography alone was sufficient to delineate the anatomic and flow abnormalities in patients subsequently selected to undergo catheterization and, if not, under what circumstances was echocardiography unable to establish the definitive diagnosis. echocardiograms of 252 infants and children who underwent catheterization during a 14-month interval were analyzed retrospectively to determine whether the echographic assessment was nondiscrepant (group 1) or discrepant (group 2) with the catheterization assessment. any deviation in the complete accurate assessment constituted a discrepancy; identification of more than one discrepancy in a single patient was possible. independent variables included patient's age, weight, operative status, use of color flow mapping, echocardiograph operator, and interval between echocardiogram and catheterization. to determine whether the discrepancies were clinically significant, data from patients in group 2 were reviewed independently by three cardiologists to determine whether patient management would have changed given the added data provided by catheterization. echocardiographic evaluations were discrepant in 155 instances. in 54 of 155 instances (35%), discrepancies were judged to be clinically significant (group 3). twenty-three of 54 cases (43%) involved extracardiac lesions (i.e., aortic arch, pulmonary arterial, bronchial collateral, and pulmonary venous anomalies), 20 of 54 (37%) involved pressure gradients, 7 of 54 (13%) involved intracardiac lesions, and 4 of 54 (7%) involved coronary arterial lesions.
causes of failure after repeat vitreoretinal surgery for recurrent proliferative vitreoretinopathy. during the last two years, we performed vitreoretinal surgery on 37 eyes with retinal detachments and recurrent severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy in 37 patients who had had previous failed scleral buckling and vitreous surgery for proliferative vitreoretinopathy. anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy was present in 32 of 37 eyes (86%); posterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy of fixed retinal folds in four quadrants of narrow or closed funnel shape occurred in 23 of 37 eyes (62%); and subretinal proliferation was noted in 16 of 37 eyes (43%). the retinas in 12 eyes (32%) redetached from new or recurrent anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy in nine eyes, reopening of pre-existing retinal breaks in two eyes, or recurrent posterior periretinal proliferation in one eye. with additional vitreoretinal procedures in six eyes and after a mean follow-up period of 11 months, 27 of 37 retinas (73%) were totally reattached, and an additional five eyes (13%) had retinal reattachment posterior to the scleral buckle. of the 32 patients with posterior retinal reattachment, final visual acuity of 5/200 or better was attained in 19 eyes (59%).
long-term visual outcome in patients with optic nerve pit and serous retinal detachment of the macula serous detachment of the macula is a well-known complication in patients with an optic nerve pit. despite the many descriptions of this condition and possible treatment options, the long-term natural history is not well known. the authors identified 15 eyes of 15 consecutive patients seen over 21 years who were diagnosed with a serous detachment of the macula arising from an optic nerve pit. average length of follow-up was 9 years. twelve eyes lost three or more lines of vision, two eyes remained unchanged, and only one eye improved. all of the 12 eyes losing three or more lines of vision experienced this decrease within the first 6 months of follow-up. although only two patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less initially, 12 of 15 patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less at the time of their last examination. the appearance of the macula at last examination included cystic changes of the neurosensory retina, full-thickness hole formation, retinal pigment epithelial mottling, and lamellar hole formation in the outer retinal layer. the long-term visual prognosis in patients with optic nerve pit and untreated serous retinal detachment of the macula is poor, and visual loss occurs within 6 months of the serous detachment.
assessment of fibrin(ogen) degradation products in preeclampsia using immunoblot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and latex-based agglutination. plasma and serum from pregnant women with preeclampsia (n = 35) and normotensive pregnant (n = 71) and nonpregnant (n = 10) controls were screened for fibrin(ogen) degradation products (fibrinogen and cross-linked fibrin degradation products, and fibrin polymers) using three different assay systems (immunoblot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [elisa], and latex-bead agglutination assay). all tests showed statistically significant differences (p less than .05) between the preeclamptic patients and the other two groups (pregnant and nonpregnant women). the elisa assay for total fibrin(ogen) degradation products was the most sensitive test, but was less specific than d-dimer latex. eleven of the 35 preeclamptic women developed hellp syndrome (hemolysis, elevated liver enzyme, and low platelet counts). positive tests were as common in the 11 preeclamptic women who developed the syndrome as in the 24 who did not. these results suggest that fibrinolytic disorders are secondary pathophysiologic events in the course of preeclampsia, but further studies with a larger number of patients are needed.
chromosome studies in 104 patients with polycythemia vera. chromosome studies were done in 104 patients with various stages of polycythemia vera (pv): 10 had leukemia-myelodysplastic syndrome, 28 had post-pv with myeloid metaplasia (ppvmm), 12 had pv with myelofibrosis, and 54 had pv. chromosome studies were successful in 86 patients, 37 (43%) of whom had a chromosome abnormality. at diagnosis, 4 of 28 patients (14%) had an abnormal clone; the incidence was 78% in ppvmm and 100% in leukemia-myelodysplastic syndrome. among the 63 patients with successful chromosome studies during the first 10 years of disease, 27% had an abnormal clone. in contrast, of the 23 patients who had the disease for more than 10 years, 87% had an abnormal clone. chromosome abnormalities were found in 11 of the 60 patients who either were untreated or underwent only phlebotomy and in 26 of the 44 patients who were treated with myelosuppressive agents. trisomy 8, +9, and 20q- were found in some patients early during the course of their disease and also among untreated patients. these chromosome abnormalities seem to be related to the natural course of pv rather than to therapy. patients with a chromosomally abnormal clone at the time of diagnosis of pv had a poorer survival than did those with only normal metaphases. cytogenetic results did not predict evolution of the disease, but they did provide clues to hematologic phenotype, duration of the disease, and consequences of myelosuppressive therapy.
pseudoaneurysm of the abdominal aorta: a case report and review of the literature. pseudoaneurysm of the abdominal aorta is a rare finding, accounting for only 1% of all abdominal aneurysms. abdominal pseudoaneurysms have been reported only in males, and two-thirds of the cases are the result of penetrating trauma. pain, abdominal mass, and vascular occlusion are the most common presenting signs and symptoms. the interval between injury and rupture may range from hours to years, and accordingly, a high index of suspicion is needed to make the diagnosis.
cardiopulmonary perfusion and cerebral blood flow in bilateral carotid artery disease the fear of cerebral complications after cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heart disease and severe carotid artery disease has led many authors to suggest combined approaches in these patients. the pathogenetic mechanism for stroke is based partly on the stenotic narrowing of the carotid artery. a diameter reduction of 75% is frequently considered hemodynamically significant and indicative of an increased risk for neurological morbidity. we studied the cerebral blood flow in 7 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting who also had severe bilateral carotid disease. the results were compared with the results in 17 patients without carotid disease who had bypass grafting. the cerebral blood flow was measured by xenon 133 washout technique before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia. acid-base regulation was according to the alpha-stat theory, and blood pressure was kept greater than 50 mm hg. the cerebral blood flow levels (ml.100g-1.min-1) before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass in the study group (30 +/- 11, 31 +/- 8, 47 +/- 20) (mean +/- standard deviation) were almost identical to those in the control group (30 +/- 11, 28 +/- 8, 47 +/- 12). the cerebral blood flow levels for the left and right hemispheres in the group with carotid disease were comparable and within normal ranges. in 2 patients, slight differences were noted between hemispheres, and this finding may indicate an increased risk for ischemia. these patients, however, did not show any signs of postoperative deficit. the flow limitations of critical carotid stenoses do not seem to imply a risk for cerebral hypoperfusion if cardiopulmonary perfusion is performed in a controlled manner.
rupture of a giant carotid aneurysm after extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery. we report a case of a fatal rupture of a previously unruptured giant aneurysm of the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery (ica), which occurred after an extracranial-intracranial (ec-ic) bypass and the partial occlusion of the ica. interim angiography showed retrograde filling of the proximal middle cerebral artery to the aneurysm. there have been four previously reported cases of giant aneurysms rupturing after treatment with an ec-ic bypass and carotid ligation, and it appears likely that a change in pressure/flow dynamics produced by the bypass may have been the cause. the technique of carotid ligation with an ec-ic bypass is used frequently to treat unclippable intracranial aneurysms, and the resulting hemodynamic changes need to be considered carefully to prevent this type of complication. to minimize hemodynamic stress on the aneurysm, we suggest that 1) the bypass caliber should be as small as possible consistent with sufficient cerebral blood flow after ica occlusion, and 2) complete ica occlusion should be performed as soon as possible after the bypass.
oculo-bulbar myasthenic symptoms as the sole sign of tumour involving or compressing the brain stem. four patients with tumours involving or compressing the brain stem are described whose initial clinical symptoms of fluctuating paresis of the external ocular muscles and/or the pharyngeal muscles without other neurological deficits led to the primary diagnosis of focal myasthenia. the combination of an unusual clinical pattern, involvement of muscles of only one ocular nerve or severe dysphagia/dysarthria without extension of the myasthenic symptoms, should lead to further investigation to exclude other reasons of a focal myasthenic syndrome such as a brain-stem tumour.
role of new anticoagulants as adjunctive therapy during thrombolysis. procoagulant activity may persist during coronary thrombolysis and result in either delay in the time to recanalization or recurrent thrombosis. although heparin and aspirin form the mainstay of current therapy, recurrent thrombosis occurs despite adjunctive heparin therapy during thrombolysis. newer agents that inhibit thrombin by antithrombin iii-independent mechanisms, or that inhibit earlier steps in the coagulation cascade, have been shown to be effective in the experimental preparation of coronary thrombolysis. because heparin-antithrombin iii is a relatively inefficient inhibitor of thrombin bound to fibrin, agents such as hirudin or small peptide inhibitors of the thrombin-active site appear to be more effective inhibitors of clot-associated thrombin activity. inhibition of early steps in the coagulation cascade with the inhibitor of tissue factor-factor viia complex, or with activated protein c, also appears to be an effective anticoagulant strategy. in experimental preparations all of these agents have shown superiority in preventing recurrent thrombosis compared with heparin, and in some cases they appear to accelerate the rate of clot lysis.
immunologic defects in patients with refractory sinusitis. sixty-one patients with chronic sinusitis who were referred for an allergy evaluation were evaluated for immunologic competence including assessment of quantitative serum immunoglobulin levels, igg subclass levels, and response to pneumococcal and haemophilus influenzae vaccines. in addition to chronic sinus disease, recurrent otitis media and asthma exacerbation were common problems in this group. five patients had an elevated age-adjusted ige level and 22 patients had positive prick tests to one or more environmental inhalants; these findings suggest an allergic component in this subgroup. twelve additional patients had highly reactive intradermal tests to common environmental allergens, which also may be clinically significant for underlying atopy. eleven patients had low immunoglobulin levels, 6 had low immunoglobulin levels and vaccine hyporesponsiveness, and 17 had poor vaccine response only. thus, 34 of 61 patients with refractory sinusitis had abnormal results on immune studies, with depressed igg3 levels and poor response to pneumococcal antigen 7 being most common. in addition to allergy, immunologic incompetence may be an important etiologic factor in patients with chronic, refractory sinusitis.
bone metastases: pathophysiology and management policy. the pathophysiology and options for management of bone metastases as well as criteria for determining response to therapy are reviewed. bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer patients. in the majority of patients, the primary tumor is in the breast, prostate, or lungs. although almost all patients will die of their disease, a proportion of the patients will survive for several years. treatment is primarily palliative: the intention is to relieve pain, prevent fractures, maintain activity and mobility, and, if possible, to prolong survival. therapeutic options include local treatment with radiotherapy and/or surgery, and systemic treatment using chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, radioisotopes, agents such as diphosphonates, which inhibit resorption of bone, as well as analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs. the mechanisms by which pain is relieved by several of these therapies remain unclear but actions beyond a simple tumoricidal effect appear to be important. there have been few randomized trials comparing the therapeutic options, and the criteria for assessing response to therapy have, in general, been poorly defined. there is a need for rigorous clinical investigations that assess the efficacy of the various therapeutic possibilities by using well-defined and validated criteria of response.
feasibility and cost savings of outpatient electrophysiologic testing. the feasibility of outpatient electrophysiologic testing was examined by reviewing 100 consecutive outpatient tests performed in 95 patients. seventy-one of the patients (75%) had no underlying heart disease. the electrophysiologic tests were performed to evaluate supraventricular tachycardias (n = 47), nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (n = 20), unexplained syncope (n = 21), palpitation (n = 9) or intermittent heart block (n = 2). a mean of 2.8 +/- 0.5 6f electrode catheters were inserted through a femoral vein. an electrode catheter was inserted into a subclavian or internal jugular vein in 28 tests and a 5f cannula was inserted into a femoral artery to monitor the blood pressure in 20 tests. the results of 61 tests (61%) were abnormal. patients were monitored for a mean of 3.8 +/- 1.2 h after the procedure and then discharged. no complications occurred. for cost analysis a subgroup of 60 of these patients was matched for age, gender, heart disease and indication for electrophysiologic testing with a group of 60 patients who underwent electrophysiologic testing as inpatients. physicians' fees for the two groups were similar; however, the mean hospital charge was $5,845 +/- 3,763 for the inpatient group compared with only $2,120 +/- 1,244 for the outpatient group (p less than 0.001). thus, outpatient electrophysiologic testing is feasible and safe and results in substantial cost savings in patients without life-threatening arrhythmias.
flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries. study objective: to determine the efficacy of flexion-extension (f/e) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients. design: we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had f/e views performed after a routine cervical-spine series (three views) was obtained in the emergency department. interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the f/e views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter. the charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of f/e views, an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability, or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies. setting: an urban level i adult trauma center. measurements: the interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal, abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation, or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation. the f/e views were categorized as stable, unstable, or uninterpretable. results: cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by f/e views in 11 of the 141 patients (8%), four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films. three of these four patients required surgical stabilization. prolonged neck pain (more than 24 hours), an initially abnormal spine series, and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of f/e views. ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history; the remaining patient was intoxicated. no neurologic sequelae resulted from performing f/e studies. there was one false-negative f/e study, which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ed. conclusion: we believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant f/e views.
bialaphos poisoning with apnea and metabolic acidosis. a 64-year-old man with ethanol intoxication, ingested a bottle of herbiace (100 ml, 32 w/v% of bialaphos, cas #35597-43-4, meiji seika kaisha, tokyo, japan). he had severe metabolic acidosis and was treated with infusions of sodium bicarbonate and furosemide, plus gastric lavage and enema. the metabolic acidosis improved 15 hours after treatment but nystagmus, apnea and convulsions were progressive. although his sensorium was clear, spontaneous respirations were not observed for 64 hours. the electroencephalographic findings of atypical triphasic waves and slow waves suggest a unique response to bialaphos poisoning. his clinical course indicates that the management of apnea is critically important to recovery from bialaphos poisoning.
traumatic aneurysm of the superior cerebellar artery: case report and review of the literature. less than 10% of the 250 reported cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysms have involved the posterior circulation. traumatic aneurysms of the superior cerebellar artery are extremely rare, with only three cases previously reported. this is the first report of a traumatic superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in which the diagnosis was suggested by computed tomographic scan. the potential for a good outcome suggests the value of early angiography when the history and diagnostic imaging studies suggest the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm.
prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis after acute abdominal operation. two hundred and forty-five patients who underwent acute extensive abdominal operations were randomized into three regimens to achieve optimal prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolic complications. all of the patients were screened by the 125i-fibrinogen uptake test for seven days and if the phlebographic findings were positive. of 81 patients receiving low dose heparin, 12 had thromboembolism. of 79 receiving a combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings, two had thromboembolism, and of 85 receiving a combination of dextran and graded compression stockings, 13 had this complication. this difference is significant in favor of the second treatment (p = 0.013). it is concluded that the combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings is an effective way to prevent thromboembolism after acute abdominal operations.
are myotonias and periodic paralyses associated with susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia? excised muscles from patients with myotonia or periodic paralysis were subjected to the in vitro contracture test for susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia (mh). in a group of 44 patients, this standard test gave four positive, 10 equivocal and 30 negative results. the results for 27 control muscles from normal subjects were negative. when the test was performed with less than normal concentrations of contracture-triggering substances (caffeine less than or equal to 2 mmol litre-1, less than or equal to 2% halothane), 70% of the muscles from the patients and only 15% of the controls responded with small contractures (less than 0.2 g). these results should not be taken to indicate that the patients have the genetic trait for mh. the positive and equivocal test results, in addition to the slight contractures, may be accounted for by the electrical after-activity in the cases of pure myotonia, and by increased resting myoplasmic [ca2+] in myotonic dystrophy. this shows that the in vitro contracture test lacks specificity.
memory retraining to support educational reintegration. a memory retraining package specifically designed to facilitate reintegration of head injured patients into an educational environment is described. two adolescent patients who had severe head injuries were administered the memory retraining package approximately three months postinjury. a single case study and multiple baseline design was used to evaluate the efficacy of the memory retraining program. the results suggested that this is a promising avenue for improving memory functioning and facilitating educational reintegration, but only where moderate rather than severe memory deficits are involved. studies involving groups of patients and the collection of data on generalization are required to confirm usefulness.
hbv-dna detection by gene amplification in acute hepatitis b. serum samples from 62 women, inadvertently infected with hepatitis b virus in an in vitro fertilization program, were tested for the presence of hepatitis b virus-dna using the polymerase chain reaction. under conditions of a strict spatial separation of dna extraction, amplification and product analysis, we succeeded in detection of as few as 360 hepatitis b virus particles per milliliter. hepatitis b virus-dna was detected with a high frequency during hbsag and hbeag antigenemia (98.5%) but also in the convalescent phase after appearance of antibody to hbsag (18.2%). however, all patients with hepatitis b virus-dna in convalescent sera were hepatitis b virus-dna negative 3 to 6 mo later. all patients with hbeag-positive samples showed hepatitis b virus-dna positivity by polymerase chain reaction. for acute hepatitis, gene amplification restores the relationship between hbeag and hepatitis b virus-dna observed in serum from chronic hepatitis b patients and calls attention to the prolonged presence of hepatitis b virus-dna in serum after generally accepted criteria for resolution of the infection have been reached.
control of total peripheral resistance during hyperthermia in rats. to elucidate the effect of blood volume on the circulatory adjustment to heat stress, we studied alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rats at three levels of blood volume: normovolemia (nbv), hypervolemia (hbv; +32% plasma volume by isotonic albumin solution infusion), and hypovolemia (lbv; -16% plasma volume by furosemide administration). body surface heating was performed with an infrared lamp to raise arterial blood temperature (tb) at the rate of approximately 0.1 degree c/min. before heating, central venous pressure (cvp) was significantly higher in hbv (0.41 +/- 0.25 mmhg) and lower in lbv (-1.44 +/- 0.22 mmhg) than in nbv (-0.41 +/- 0.10 mmhg). the tb at which cvp started to decrease was approximately 40 degrees c in hbv, approximately 41 degrees c in nbv, and approximately 42 degrees c in lbv, and it decreased by 1.53 +/- 0.14, 1.92 +/- 0.24, and 0.62 +/- 0.14 mmhg from 37 to 43 degrees c of tb in hbv, nbv, and lbv, respectively. stroke volume was closely correlated with cvp, and this relationship was not affected by tb. heart rate responses to the raised tb were similar among the three groups. mean arterial pressure (map) was not affected by blood volume modification or cvp and was maintained at preheating (tb 37 degrees c) level until tb rose to 40 degrees c. above this tb, map increased until tb reached 43 degrees c (+30-40 mmhg) for all three groups. total peripheral resistance (tpr) was inversely correlated with cvp, and the slope of the linear relationship between tpr and cvp in lbv was three- to fourfold steeper than in nbv or hbv.
adrenal medullary implants in the rat spinal cord reduce nociception in a chronic pain model. previous work in this laboratory has indicated that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the rat spinal cord can reduce pain sensitivity to acute noxious stimuli, particularly following stimulation by nicotine. this most likely results from the stimulated release of opioid peptides and catecholamines from the transplanted chromaffin cells. however, chronic pain models may more closely resemble human clinical pain, and the arthritic rat model has been used for screening potential therapeutic strategies. the purpose of the present study was to assess the potential for adrenal medullary tissue implanted into the spinal subarachnoid space to alleviate chronic pain. adrenal medullary tissue was implanted into adjuvant-induced arthritic rats, and changes in body weight and vocalization responses were monitored over the 10 week course of the disease. results indicate that the severe weight reduction normally associated with this inflammatory arthritis was attenuated by adrenal medullary, but not control, implants. in addition, vocalizations were reduced in animals implanted with adrenal medullary, but not control tissue following nicotine stimulation. this reduction was blocked by the opiate antagonist, naloxone, and partially attenuated by the alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine. together, these results suggest that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord may provide a local source of opioid peptides and catecholamines for the reduction of chronic pain.
mesencephalic cholinergic nuclei in progressive supranuclear palsy. using an antibody against choline acetyltransferase (chat), mesencephalic cholinergic cell nuclei were studied in autopsy material from 3 cases of progressive supranuclear palsy (psp) and 4 controls. chat-immunoreactive neurons were quantified in sections that spanned the rostrocaudal extent of each nucleus. in psp, there was a significant decrease in the number of neurons with detectable immunoreactivity for chat in and adjacent to the central gray substance in the following nuclei: the nucleus of edinger-westphal (69%); the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (97%); the interstitial nucleus of cajal (78%). a cell loss was also evident in a group of neurons found in the deep layers of the superior colliculus (93%). in contrast, the estimated number of chat-immunoreactive cell bodies in cranial nerves iii and iv, in the mesencephalic reticular formation, and in the parabigeminal nucleus was not different from that of controls. the results are compatible with the notion that, in psp, there is a regionally selective destruction of cholinergic neurons.
palliative operations for colorectal cancer. a review of 96 consecutive patients who underwent palliative surgery for primary colorectal cancer was undertaken to clarify the value of palliation achieved with surgical treatment. the overall rate of postoperative mortality was 8 percent (8 of 96) and the overall rate of postoperative morbidity was 24 percent (23 of 96). the mortality rate was 5 percent (3 of 66) after resective surgery and 17 percent (5 of 30) after nonresective surgery. three deaths were related to the malignant disease, three were related to the intra-abdominal infection, and two were related to formation of intestinocutaneous fistulas. of the 8 patients who died, 1 had a tumor with local visceral involvement only and 7 had a tumor with more distant spread. median survival was 10 months for all patients, 15 months for patients treated with resective surgery, and 7 months for nonresected patients. five patients (5 percent) have survived for longer than 5 years. the median relief of preoperative cancer symptoms was 4 months (4 months after resective surgery and 1 month after nonresective surgery). twenty-five patients have undergone second surgery. it is concluded that palliative resective surgery for colorectal cancer can improve patient comfort with an acceptable postoperative mortality rate when cancer growth is localized and in favorable cases with more distant spread, whereas nonresective surgery fails to achieve symptom relief.
chondrolipoangioma. a cartilage-containing benign mesenchymoma of soft tissue. the clinical and pathologic features of four cases of benign mesenchymoma in which mature cartilage represented the predominant component are reported. the distinctive histologic feature in all four cases was a lobular proliferation of cartilaginous tissue exhibiting a spectrum of hyaline cartilage, fibrocartilage, myxoid cartilage, and cartilage with ossification and even bone marrow formation, intimately associated with mature adipose tissue and vascular elements. the localization of these tumors was in the proximity of a bone, but not attached to the periosteum or in continuity with a joint. because these lesions may be mistaken for other cartilaginous neoplasms of soft tissue, recognition of this entity has potentially important diagnostic and therapeutic implications in that mutilating surgery may be avoided.
initial ct findings in 753 patients with severe head injury. a report from the nih traumatic coma data bank. in this prospective multicenter study, the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography (ct) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury. when the ct findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death, the most important characteristics of the scans were: midline shift: compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns: and the presence of subarachnoid blood. diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension.
radiographic techniques and efficacy in evaluating esophageal dysphagia. the radiographic examination of the esophagus to determine structural and/or functional causes of dysphagia is best performed with multiple techniques. these include full-column studies to produce distended films with or without the use of a solid bolus, mucosal relief films to identify mucosal defects such as esophagitis or the presence of varices, double-contrast films, and motion recording (fluoroscopy). the efficacy of each technique depends on the quality of the study and the specific disorder to be detected. esophageal lesions producing dysphagia are classified into extrinsic structural lesions, intrinsic structural lesions, and esophageal motility disorders. radiographic studies are the preferred screening techniques for patients with dysphagia. although not as sensitive for the evaluation of mucosal lesions, radiographic studies are superior to endoscopy for the detection of abnormal motility, esophageal rings, and strictures.
delayed onset of cardiac arrhythmias from sustained-release verapamil. sustained-release products in overdose are known to produce prolonged effects as well as delayed onset. the availability of sustained-release calcium channel blockers may produce an initial misleading picture for patients who are at risk for serious toxicity. we report the cases of two adults who had delayed onset of arrhythmias after ingestion of sustained-release verapamil. in both cases, a single dose of activated charcoal was administered, but the patients still developed toxicity. some of the unique problems encountered with sustained-release formulations are discussed, and 24-hour cardiac monitoring for sustained-release calcium channel blocker overdoses, despite a possible early asymptomatic period, is suggested.
the relationship between hypochondriasis and medical illness. forty-one diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders-iii-revised hypochondriacs were accrued from a primary care practice. seventy-five control subjects were selected at random from among the remainder of the patients in the same clinic. all subjects completed a structured diagnostic interview and standardized self-report questionnaires. medical morbidity was assessed with a medical record audit and with primary physicians' ratings. the hypochondriacal and comparison samples did not differ in aggregate medical morbidity, although the hypochondriacal sample had more undiagnosed complaints and nonspecific findings in their medical records. within the comparison sample, higher levels of medical morbidity were associated with higher levels of hypochondriacal symptoms. this occurred primarily because the most serious medical disorders were associated with more bodily preoccupation, disease conviction, and somatization. within the hypochondriacal sample, no correlation was found between the degree of hypochondriasis and the extent of medical morbidity.
possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori. this study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes (lts) in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori. biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of lts. there was correlation between the ltb4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically. the level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive. the ltb4 level in mucosa infected with c. pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa. these findings suggest that endogenous lts may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with c. pylori.
hepatocellular carcinoma as second malignant neoplasms in successfully treated wilms' tumor patients. a national wilms' tumor study report. although rare, second malignant neoplasms (smn) after treatment for wilms' tumor are deadly. a recent national wilms' tumor study (nwts) report identified 15 patients with second malignancies discovered over 14,381 person-years of observation. this report described four patients with secondary hepatocellular carcinoma in greater detail. these patients were strikingly similar in that all had right-sided tumors and each one had received right upper-quadrant irradiation. all patients died shortly after diagnosis of the smn.
familial occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease. background and methods. we assessed the familial occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease in copenhagen county, where there has been a long-term interest in the epidemiology of such disorders. in 1987 we interviewed 662 patients in whom inflammatory bowel disease had been diagnosed before 1979, asking whether their first- and second-degree relatives had this disorder. ninety-six percent of the patients (504 with ulcerative colitis and 133 with crohn's disease) provided adequate information. results. as compared with the general population, the first-degree relatives of the 637 patients with ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease had a 10-fold increase in the risk of having the same disease as the patients, after standardization for age and sex. the risk of having the other of the two diseases was also increased, but less so, and the increase in the risk of having crohn's disease was not significant in the relatives of patients with ulcerative colitis. the risk of ulcerative colitis in first-degree relatives of patients with ulcerative colitis appeared to be virtually independent of the generation to which the first-degree relative belonged and of the sex of the patient and the relative. the risk of ulcerative colitis in first-degree relatives tended to be higher if the disease had been diagnosed in the patient before the age of 50, but the risk seemed to be independent of the current age of the relatives. the prevalence of the same disease as that of the patient (either ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease) among second-degree relatives was increased; the prevalence of the other disease was not increased. conclusions. the 10-fold increase in the familial risk of ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease strongly suggests that these disorders have a genetic cause.
insulin-like growth factor-i supports proliferation of autocrine thymic lymphoma cells with a pre-t cell phenotype. we have studied the phenotypic characteristics and growth properties of murine t lymphoma cell lines derived from primary x-ray-induced thymic lymphomas at the earliest stage at which they can be detected, and well before spreading to other organs has occurred. these cell lines serve as model systems for the earliest events in t cell lymphoma induction, before tumor cell progression and spreading to other organs. we find that primary x-ray-induced t cell lymphoma lines have phenotypic characteristics of thymic pre-t cells and show no proliferative response to any of the il tested nor to other hematopoietic growth factors. however, they do proliferate in response to insulin-like growth factor i (igf-i) and to a small autocrine peptide distinct from igf-i, which we term lymphoma growth factor. one of the earliest lesions in t cell lymphoma induction may therefore be an inhibition of differentiation at one of several specific points. in its early stages, t lymphoma cell growth may be restricted to an environment where local concentrations of specific growth factors such as igf-i or lymphoma growth factor are sufficiently high.
fourth ventricular schwannoma. case report. a schwannoma arising from the dorsum of the pontomedullary junction and presenting as an exophytic mass in the fourth ventricle is described. a ventricular schwannoma has not previously been reported in the literature. the presenting clinical and radiographic features and the pathology of this tumor are summarized, and an explanation is sought for its unusual location.
west syndrome associated with hyperlexia. two patients are reported with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia. they had peculiar linguistic and psychosocial development and autistic behavior, yet began to read japanese and chinese characters, numbers, roman alphabet letters, and trademark letters at 3 years of age. neuropsychologic, electroencephalographic, and radiologic studies were performed at 11 years of age in patient 1 and at 10 years of age in patient 2. although they were able to read fluently with correct intonation, their comprehension was significantly impaired. the neuropsychologic evaluation of both patients demonstrated selective, excellent ability in auditory memory in contrast to impairment of associational abilities, visual retention, and visual constructional abilities. these findings suggest that the functions in the nondominant hemisphere were also impaired. although children with west syndrome frequently have associated mental retardation, patients with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia have never been reported. a neuropsychologic investigation of epileptic children with mental retardation is necessary for the detection of hyperlexia.
overnight admission of outpatient strabismus patients. the trend to outpatient strabismus surgery prompted us to determine the frequency of, and the reasons for, postoperative overnight hospital admission following such surgery. in one year, 303 outpatient strabotomies were performed at the jules stein eye institute on patients over 15 months old. twenty-four (7.9%) were admitted overnight postoperatively. compared with controls, those admitted were older (37 vs 20.5 years), and had a longer duration of anesthesia (145 vs 116 minutes) and surgery (104 vs 75 minutes) (p less than .01 for each). the time that surgery commenced and the use of perioperative medications were not significant factors. the most frequent reasons for overnight admission were nausea (38%) despite prophylaxis and the use of bilateral patches (16%). to minimize postoperative admissions, better strategies should be developed to decrease the frequency of significant postoperative nausea, the duration of surgery and anesthesia, and, if possible, the use of bilateral patches.
thirty-year follow-up of superior vena cava-pulmonary artery (glenn) shunts. the first superior vena cava-pulmonary artery shunt (glenn shunt) in our series was performed in february 1958. from then through september 1988, 91 patients have undergone this procedure for a wide variety of congenital defects. we here report follow-up data available on all patients. ages ranged from 2 days to 46 years (mean 6.8). diagnoses were as follows: tricuspid atresia, 27; single ventricle, 22; tetralogy of fallot, 14; d-transposition of the great arteries, ventricular septal defect, and pulmonary stenosis, 9; d-transposition, 5; ebstein's anomaly, 4; pulmonary atresia + intact septum, 4; and others, 6. the hospital mortality rate was 7.7% (one death in the last 53 patients, 1.9%). five deaths occurred in patients less than 6 months old. there were 20 late deaths (22%) with actuarial survival rates of 84% and 66% at 10 and 20 years, respectively. pulmonary arteriovenous fistula formation was seen in 18 patients (19.7%), six of whom have undergone therapeutic embolization with improvement in saturation. the prevalence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula increases with time after shunt. no long-term shunt thrombosis or stricture formation was seen. fifty percent of shunts were still functioning at 20 years. palliation was limited because of decrease in blood flow to the contralateral pulmonary artery, collaterals between the inferior and superior venae cavae, and pulmonary arteriovenous fistula formation. improvement in saturation was obtained in eight otherwise inoperable patients by creation of a right axillary arteriovenous fistula up to 19 years after the glenn shunt. three patients had conversion of a blalock-taussig shunt to a glenn shunt with improvement in congestive heart failure. twenty-six patients have undergone a fontan procedure with two deaths. compared with the group having a fontan procedure without a prior glenn operation, there was no difference in early or late mortality. thirty years after a glenn shunt, the first patient in this series is working full time after having undergone a modified fontan procedure in 1981. we conclude that the glenn connection, usually with supplemental procedures to enhance oxygenation, has provided excellent physiologic palliation with low mortality up to 30 years with no late thrombosis or stricture formation. the incidence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula increases with time and can be effectively treated with embolization. physiologic repair after the glenn shunt carries a low mortality. although currently used infrequently, superior vena cava-pulmonary artery shunting remains a useful method of palliation in selected patients.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
interruption of critical aortoiliac collateral circulation during nonvascular operations: a cause of acute limb-threatening ischemia. in patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease interruption of critical collaterals during another nonvascular or cardiac operation may threaten limb viability. this occurred in four patients whose limb-threatening ischemia was precipitated by radical cystectomy with bilateral hypogastric artery ligation, left colon resection, or coronary artery revascularizations by means of the internal mammary artery. important collateral pathways, the interruption of which may account for this phenomenon, are detailed, and approaches are outlined for prevention and management of acute ischemia in this setting.
subdural hematoma associated with metastatic neoplasms. two cases of subdural hematoma, one acute and the other chronic, associated with cancer metastatic to the dura are reported. various mechanisms of the association of hematomas with cancer are reviewed.
cystic mesothelioma of peritoneum: occurrence in a man. we report a case of cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum in a 54-year-old man in whom cystic masses were removed twice by surgery at an interval of 2 years. the patient died of cardiac arrest shortly after the second operation for a concurrent unresectable colonic cancer. the pathogenesis of the disease is uncertain, but we consider it neoplastic of low grade malignancy.
imaging of a parapharyngeal hemangiopericytoma. radioimmunoscintigraphy (spect) with indium-111-labeled anti-cea antibody, and comparison to digital subtraction angiography, computed tomography, and immunohistochemistry. a 27-year-old male patient with a parapharyngeal hemangiopericytoma was investigated radiologically with orthopantomography, computed tomography, and digital subtraction angiography before the operation. because a malignancy was suspected, the patient was imaged with gamma camera using radiolabeled monoclonal anticarcinoembryonal antigen antibody including single photon emission computed tomography. the radioantibody accumulated strongly into the neoplasm. tumor to background ratio was 2.2. samples of the excised tumor were stained immunohistochemically for desmin, vimentin, muscle actin, cytokeratin, cea (carcinoembryonic antigen), and factor viii. they showed that the antibody uptake was of unspecific nature and not due to cea expression in the tumor.
merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testis. tumor metastases to the testes are rare and are usually found incidentally at autopsy or after orchiectomy for prostatic carcinoma. it is even more unusual for testicular metastases to be clinically detected or symptomatic. the authors report two cases of clinically detected testicular metastases from merkel cell carcinoma of the skin. merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testes has not been reported previously. the two tumors, to some degree, resembled testicular lymphomas and the interstitial type of seminoma.
translocation (9;22) is associated with extremely poor prognosis in intensively treated children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the prognostic implications of t(9;22)(q34;q11) were assessed at a median follow-up of 3.5 years in 434 children receiving intensive treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). four-year event-free and overall survivals were 81% and 88%, respectively, in 419 children lacking t(9;22), but were 0% and 20%, respectively, in 15 children with t(9;22) (p less than .001). poor outcome for children with t(9;22)-positive all was particularly notable because we have reported improved survival in other historically poor prognosis all cytogenetic categories when treated with similarly intensive therapy. we recommend that very intensive treatment approaches, including bone marrow transplantation in first remission, be considered for all children with t(9;22)-positive all.
strokes in african-americans. hypertension is the most important risk factor for stroke, especially in african-americans. improved control of high blood pressure nationwide is a key factor in the recent dramatic decline in stroke frequency, most notably in african-american women. hypertension control programs must be adequately funded and expanded. african-americans have a disproportionately high incidence of risk factors for stroke, including hypertension. there is evidence that the cerebral vessels involved in ischemic stroke in african-americans may differ from those of caucasians. there is an urgent need for more research on stroke in general, risk factor relations in particular, and mechanisms in the pathogenesis of stroke in african-americans.
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in hypothyroidism. purpose: to determine the risks of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) in hypothyroid individuals. patients and methods: in a retrospective cohort study, 13 patients with primary hypothyroidism were identified among 382 consecutive ptca cases in 1987. twenty-two euthyroid ptca control subjects and 13 hypothyroid patients who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery (cab) were identified for comparison. results: hypothyroid and euthyroid ptca patients had similar mean ages, numbers of prior and recent acute myocardial infarctions, diseased coronary arteries, coronary arteries dilated, and serum cholesterol levels. there were no significant differences in procedure-related mortality (0% versus 0%); coronary artery dissection (23% versus 23%); reocclusion (8% versus 5%); bradycardia (0% versus 0%); heart failure (0% versus 5%); hypotension (31% versus 27%); myocardial infarction (8% versus 0%); gastrointestinal dysfunction (0% versus 0%); neuropsychiatric disturbance (15% versus 9%); hyponatremia (23% versus 23%); hypothermia (0% versus 0%); or fever (15% versus 5%). hematoma formation tended to be more frequent in the hypothyroid group (38% versus 18%, p = 0.18). similar results were obtained when the subgroup of more severely hypothyroid patients (thyrotropin level more than 20 mu/l, n = 7) was examined. compared to hypothyroid cab patients, hypothyroid ptca patients had less incidence of heart failure (0% versus 31%, p less than 0.025); neuropsychiatric disturbance (15% versus 54%, p less than 0.025); hyponatremia (23% versus 62%, p less than 0.05); gastrointestinal dysfunction (0% versus 23%, p less than 0.025); and fever (15% versus 62%, p less than 0.001). conclusion: ptca can be performed in hypothyroid patients without increased mortality or major morbidity, and when appropriate, may be preferred to bypass surgery for coronary revascularization in patients intolerant of full thyroid hormone replacement.
spinal cord stimulation: a contemporary series forty-three patients with chronic pain disorders of different causes were selected for spinal cord stimulation. all underwent implantation of a ribbon electrode through a small laminotomy, under general anesthesia. thirteen patients (30%) failed to obtain significant pain relief during a period of trial stimulation, and their electrodes were removed. the remainder underwent a definitive implant and were followed for a mean of 13 months (range, 3-33 months). nineteen of them (63%) continued to experience pain relief. a detailed analysis of this series, as well as a literature review, is presented.
flow cytometric dna analysis of hepatocellular carcinoma: preliminary report. flow cytometric dna analysis was performed in 50 paraffin-embedded specimens of clinical hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) after hepatic resections. the dna distribution pattern was classified in two types, diploid and aneuploid, according to the degree of dispersion on the dna histogram. the major dna pattern of hcc in this report proved to be aneuploid (78%), although 22% of tumors revealed a diploid pattern. the serum alpha-fetoprotein level exceeded 40 ng/ml in 86.1% of the aneuploid tumors and in 13.9% of the diploid tumors (p less than 0.05). we found no correlation between dna distribution and hepatitis b surface antigen positivity, the presence of liver cirrhosis or tumor size. additionally we noted no significant correlation between the dna pattern and survival rates in patients with hcc who underwent hepatic resection.
elective diagnostic laparoscopy. laparoscopy developed as a science at the turn of the century, and many scientists assisted in the evolution of this technique. however, it was many years before the multiple trocar system was developed that allowed internal organs to be moved and biopsies to be obtained. this has led to the development of numerous indications for elective diagnostic laparoscopy. adequate preparation and attention to instrumentation ensure the safety of this operation. elective diagnostic laparoscopy is a useful adjunct to many other diagnostic modalities such as, for instance, the assessment of abdominal pain, abdominal masses, fever of unknown origin, and gastrointestinal bleeding. in many other circumstances, such as the assessment of oncology cases, this modality is superior to conventional radiology because biopsy specimens may be obtained. if the procedure is correctly performed, the diagnostic yield is extremely high and the morbidity and mortality are low. the role of this important technique should not be underestimated by today's practicing surgeon.
inflammatory pseudotumor of intra-abdominal lymph nodes manifesting as recurrent fever of unknown origin: a case report. a 27-year-old man presented with a 7-month history of debilitating recurrent fever and weight loss. extensive clinical evaluation led to the discovery of splenomegaly and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy. the patient underwent splenectomy as well as liver and lymph node biopsy. histologic examination of the lymph nodes, but not the liver and spleen, revealed inflammatory pseudotumor of lymph nodes. the patient has remained asymptomatic for more than 3 years following the surgical procedure despite the absence of further intervention. inflammatory pseudotumor of lymph nodes should be considered in the differential evaluation of prolonged or relapsing fever of unknown etiology.
onset of induced atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model to test the hypothesis that induced atrial flutter evolves from a transitional rhythm, the onset of 99 episodes of induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 135 +/- 18 ms) lasting greater than 5 min in 40 dogs with sterile pericarditis was first characterized. in 85 (86%) of the 99 episodes, atrial flutter was preceded by a brief period (mean 1.4 +/- 0.9 s, range 0.4 to 42) of atrial fibrillation. then, in 11 open chest studies, atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the onset of 18 episodes of induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 136 +/- 16 ms). atrial flutter was induced by a train of eight paced atrial beats, followed by one or two premature atrial beats (7 episodes) or rapid atrial pacing (11 episodes). a short period of atrial fibrillation (mean cycle length 110 +/- 7 ms) induced by atrial pacing activated the right atrium through wave fronts, which produced a localized area of slow conduction. then unidirectional conduction block of the wave front occurred for one beat in all or a portion of the area of slow conduction. this permitted the unblocked wave front to turn around an area of functional block and return through the area of slow conduction that had developed the unidirectional conduction block, thereby initiating the reentrant circuit. the location of the unidirectional block relative to the direction of the circulating wave fronts determined whether the circus movement was clockwise or counterclockwise. the area of slow conduction and unidirectional conduction block occurred where the wave front crossed perpendicular to the orientation of the atrial muscle fibers, suggesting a role for anisotropic conduction. these areas included the high right atrial portion of the sulcus terminalis (10 episodes), the low right atrial portion of the sulcus terminalis (4 episodes) and the pectinate muscle region (4 episodes). it is concluded that the development of a localized area of slow conduction in the right atrium followed by unidirectional conduction block in this area produced during a short period of atrial fibrillation or rapid atrial pacing is necessary for atrial flutter to occur in this model.
characterization of a newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain: iomm-lee. a permanent malignant meningioma (mm) cell line of the human brain designated "iomm-lee" is reported. this cell line was successfully established from the tumor of a 61-year-old chinese man with repeated recurrent primary intraosseous malignant meningioma of the skull. it has been subcultured for more than 60 passages during the past 30 months. the doubling time of cultured cells is approximately 62 hours. tumorigenicity in athymic nude mice (balb/c-nu/nu) who develop multiple pulmonary metastases was observed; the doubling time of tumor volume in vivo is approximately 5 days. karyotypic analysis revealed this cell line to be of human origin and near-diploid, with a modal chromosome number of 49. the mesenchymal tumor marker vimentin and intracytoplasmic microfilaments were identified in the cytoplasm of tumor cells by indirect immunohistochemical peroxidase-anti-peroxidase assays and immunogold ultrastructural localization by transmission electron microscopy, respectively. scanning electron microscopy of cultured cells and xenografted tumors revealed ellipsoidal or carrot-shaped tumor cells presenting a wrinkled surface with short sparse microvilli. potential proliferating activity was determined by ki-67 monoclonal antibody; the ki-67 labeling index of cultured cells and xenografted tumors was approximately 36% and 30%, respectively. this newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain may prove useful as a research model.
cerebellar and frontal hypometabolism in alcoholic cerebellar degeneration studied with positron emission tomography. local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was studied utilizing 18f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and positron emission tomography (pet) in 14 chronically alcohol-dependent patients and 8 normal control subjects of similar age and sex. nine of the 14 patients (group a) had clinical signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration, and the remaining 5 (group b) did not have signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration. pet studies of group a revealed significantly decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in the superior cerebellar vermis in comparison with the normal control subjects. group b did not show decreased rates in the cerebellum. both groups a and b showed decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose bilaterally in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex in comparison with the normal control subjects. the severity of the clinical neurological impairment was significantly correlated with the degree of hypometabolism in both the superior cerebellar vermis and the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex. the degree of atrophy detected in computed tomography scans was significantly correlated with local cerebral metabolic rates in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex, but not in the cerebellum. the data indicate that hypometabolism in the superior cerebellar vermis closely follows clinical symptomatology in patients with alcoholic cerebellar degeneration, and does not occur in alcohol-dependent patients without clinical evidence of cerebellar dysfunction. hypometabolism in the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex is a prominent finding in alcohol-dependent patients with or without alcoholic cerebellar degeneration.
the effect of ph buffering on reducing the pain associated with subcutaneous infiltration of bupivicaine [published erratum appears in am j emerg med 1991 jul;9(4):410] the authors propose that ph buffering of bupivicaine with sodium bicarbonate reduces the pain associated with its local subcutaneous infiltration. in a double-blind, prospective study, 62 healthy adult volunteers received a 0.5 ml subcutaneous infiltration of 0.5% buffered bupivicaine into the dorsum of a randomly chosen hand. the ph was adjusted to 7.0 by adding 0.05 ml of sodium bicarbonate (1 meq/l [corrected]) to 10 ml vials of commercially available bupivicaine (1:200 dilution). the control hand was injected with the same amount of unbuffered agent. pain was scored after each infiltration using a nonsegmented visual analogue scale. student's t-test for paired measurements was used to analyze intergroup pain score differences. forty-three subjects (69%) reported less pain with buffered bupivicaine and only 17 (27%) noted a modest increase: two subjects (3%) reported no difference. the mean pain score for the buffered agent was 22 mm compared with 30 mm for the control. the mean difference (control-experimental) was 8 mm (t = 4.64, df = 61, p less than .001). the authors conclude that the addition of sodium bicarbonate to bupivicaine reduces the pain associated with its local infiltration.
role of angiotensin in the renal vasoconstriction observed during the development of genetic hypertension. studies have examined renal function to determine the role of the kidney in the pathogenesis and maintenance phases of hypertension in the okamoto-aoki strain of spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr). as compared to age-matched wistar-kyoto rats (wky), 4- to 6-week old shr are moderately hypertensive and have a reduced glomerular filtration rate (gfr) and renal blood flow (rbf), and an increased renal vascular resistance. cross-breeding studies indicate the reduction in rbf and gfr in young shr is genetically linked to the hypertension and thus may be of primary pathogenetic importance. the combination of an elevated vascular resistance and reduced rbf and gfr in young shr implicates increased activity of a vasoconstrictor system(s), decreased activity of a vasodilator system(s), or both. observations from several laboratories support the notion that endogenous angiotensin ii contributes to the renal vasoconstriction in young shr during the developmental phase of hypertension. acute and chronic inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme reduce arterial pressure, reduce renal vascular resistance and increase renal blood flow in young and adult shr. renal vascular tone in shr is more dependent on angiotensin converting enzyme activity than that in wky. the ability of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to produce renal vasodilation may be responsible, at least in part, for its antihypertensive effects. other studies indicate that renal vascular reactivity to angiotensin ii is exaggerated in young shr. the strain differences in renal reactivity to angiotensin ii can be abolished by cyclooxygenase inhibition with indomethacin, indicating that endogenous prostanoids counteract some of the constrictor action of angiotensin ii, with more pronounced buffering activity in wky.
edrophonium provocative test in noncardiac chest pain. evaluation of testing techniques. edrophonium chloride is used frequently as a provocative agent in the assessment of noncardiac chest pain (nccp). however, the optimum dose and most appropriate method of interpreting test results is controversial. we studied 150 consecutive nccp patients and 50 age-matched controls who alternately received either 80 micrograms/kg or 10 mg intravenous bolus doses of edrophonium preceded by saline placebo injections. distal esophageal pressures were measured before and after drug injection in response to ten 5-cc wet swallows. following 10 mg of edrophonium, 33% of patients and 4% of controls reported chest pain, while 29% of patients and no controls receiving the 80 micrograms/kg dose complained of chest pain. amplitude changes after either dose were not significantly different for all comparisons, but the duration of response did distinguish the two doses in patients with chest pain. a significantly greater (p = 0.01) increase in distal contraction duration occurred after 10 mg (74 +/- 12%; +/- se) compared to 80 micrograms/kg dose (43 +/- 6%). however, individual responses to the two doses overlapped considerably. if a positive test is redefined to include both chest pain and manometric changes that are significantly different from controls, the positivity rate changes drastically; 33% to 9% in the 10-mg group and 30% to 3% in the 80-micrograms/kg group. side effects were similar between doses, but there was a significant (p = 0.02) linear relationship between intensity of side effects and the edrophonium dose per kilogram of body weight.
transmural myocardial deformation in the ischemic canine left ventricle. the myocardium is a complex three-dimensional structure consisting of myocytes interconnected by a dense collagen weave that courses in different directions. regional ischemia can be expected to produce complex changes in ventricular deformation. in the present study, we examined the effects of ischemia on two- and three-dimensional finite strains during acute transmural myocardial ischemia in 13 open-chest anesthetized dogs. in contrast to systolic deformation observed during the control period in which circumferential shortening exceeded longitudinal shortening, our results indicate that after 5 minutes of acute ischemia, end-systolic in-plane lengthening across the left ventricular wall occurs in approximately equal amounts in the circumferential and longitudinal directions. along with these changes in extensional strains, there were significant negative transverse shearing deformations during ischemia. myocardial ischemia also resulted in a loss of the normal end-systolic transmural gradients of shortening and thickening. three-dimensional end-diastolic strains indicate that the left ventricular wall undergoes a significant passive reconfiguration that varies transmurally with lengthening in the epicardial tangent plane and wall thinning increasing from the epicardium toward the endocardium. the large systolic changes in shearing deformations with ischemia could potentially influence collateral blood flow and certainly indicate that uniaxial measurements of deformation in the ischemic myocardium, which do not account for shearing deformation, are incomplete and must be interpreted with caution. moreover, normal transmural systolic gradients in deformation, which would be anticipated on geometric grounds, are lost during ischemia, implying that the material properties of ischemic tissue or the loading conditions imposed on the ischemic region by partially impaired adjacent myocardium vary transmurally.
surgical treatment of extramammary paget's disease. a report of six cases and a reexamination of mohs micrographic surgery compared with conventional surgical excision. extramammary paget's disease (empd) is a rare cutaneous malignancy, usually on the genitalia, that almost always extends beyond clinically apparent margins. recurrences after standard methods of surgical excision are notoriously frequent; effective treatment with mohs micrographic surgery was first reported in 1979. it has since been suggested this malignancy may be multifocal, and reports of recurrences after resection with micrographic surgery have appeared. the authors report six cases treated with mohs surgery, two of which recurred. they also present data on 42 additional cases obtained from a written survey of members of the american college of mohs micrographic surgery and comparison cases selected from the literature. the recurrence rate after micrographic surgery appears to be at least as low as that after conventional surgical excision with vertical frozen section or paraffin section margin control. mohs micrographic surgery allows for maximal tissue sparing of critical anatomic structures and is performed under local anesthesia as an outpatient; because of this, it may be superior to conventional surgical excision. a scheme for management of this malignancy is presented. surgeons should be aware radical excision is not needed for most cases of extramammary paget's disease and very long-term patient follow-up is required.
umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia: a new association? in three fetuses, congenital intestinal atresia was associated with linear ulcerations of the umbilical cord. in two cases, hemorrhage was seen from the cord ulcer. both fetuses required emergency cesarean section for fetal distress and were born anemic. the third fetus was mildly hydropic, attributed to hemorrhage, and was stillborn. the mechanism of the association could not be determined. these cases suggest a risk of prenatal umbilical cord hemorrhage in infants with intestinal atresia.
cerebellar degeneration and meige's syndrome. we have reported a case of meige's syndrome in a middle-aged man who eventually had a cerebellar degeneration syndrome. the extrapyramidal symptoms preceded cerebellar signs and symptoms by 5 years. most patients with idiopathic meige's syndrome show some improvement with high-dose anticholinergic therapy. our patient's lack of response to such agents and his subsequent cerebellar symptoms are reminiscent of the situation seen with parkinsonian patients who do not respond to medications, indicating a more widespread degenerative disease. the association of extrapyramidal symptoms with some spinocerebellar disorders, and the pathologic changes seen in the one reported autopsy case, should place the group of spinocerebellar disorders high on the differential list.
alpha 1-antichymotrypsin as a possible biochemical marker for alzheimer-type dementia. we measured serum alpha 1-antichymotrypsin levels in 38 patients with alzheimer-type dementia, 89 control subjects, 2 subjects with down's syndrome, 20 with vascular dementia, 18 with parkinson's disease, 14 with spinocerebellar degeneration, 15 with cerebrovascular disease without dementia, and 14 with duchenne muscular dystrophy. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were also measured in 15 patients with alzheimer-type dementia, 26 control subjects, 6 with vascular dementia, 7 with cerebrovascular disorder, and 11 with degenerative disorders. in control subjects, there were no age-related changes or sex differences. serum and csf levels were significantly and specifically higher in patients with alzheimer-type dementia than in other subjects (serum, p less than 0.001; csf, p less than 0.05). serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were significantly elevated in the early stage of alzheimer-type dementia, whereas there was no definite correlation between serum levels and the degree of dementia. csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin tended to parallel the severity of dementia. serum levels were not correlated with csf levels. these data indicate that serum and csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin might be independently upregulated in alzheimer-type dementia. we concluded that the measurement of serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin could be useful as a screening marker for alzheimer-type dementia. in addition, csf levels also could be a useful marker for alzheimer-type dementia, because they might reflect the state of dementia.
vagal modulation of the rate-dependent properties of the atrioventricular node. vagal effects on atrioventricular (av) nodal conduction are accentuated by increases in heart rate. to establish the mechanism of these rate-dependent negative dromotropic actions, we studied the properties governing av nodal adaptation to changes in heart rate in chloralose-anesthetized dogs in the absence and presence of bilateral cervical vagal nerve stimulation (20 hz, 0.2 msec). stimulation protocols were applied to evaluate the contributions of changes in av nodal recovery, facilitation, and fatigue independently of each other. vagal stimulation slowed av nodal recovery in a voltage-dependent way, increasing the time constant of recovery (tau r) from 80 +/- 7 to 194 +/- 16 msec (mean +/- sem, p less than 0.01) at the highest voltage studied. the facilitating effect of a premature (a2) beat was manifested by a leftward shift of the recovery curve (a3h3 versus h2a3) of a subsequent a3 beat. the magnitude of shift depended on the a1a2 coupling interval and was reduced by vagal stimulation at all a1a2 intervals (maximum shift: control, 63 +/- 12 msec; vagus, 24 +/- 11 msec; p less than 0.01). when recovery and facilitation were kept constant, abrupt increases in av nodal activation rate caused a slow (tau = 75 beats) increase in ah interval (fatigue). vagal stimulation increased the magnitude of this process (maximum: control, 11 +/- 2 msec; vagus, 27 +/- 3 msec; p less than 0.001), without altering its time course. at activation rates comparable to sinus rhythm in humans, vagal stimulation at an intermediate voltage increased the ah interval by 25 msec. as heart rate increased, vagally induced changes in dynamic processes amplified ah prolongation up to fivefold at maximum rate. the role of vagal changes in individual functional properties depended on heart rate, but slowing of recovery was the single most important factor, constituting over 50% of overall vagal action at rapid rates. we conclude that vagal stimulation alters the ways in which the av node responds to changes in activation rate and that at rapid rates most of the negative dromotropic action of the vagus is due to changes in the av nodal response to tachycardia. alterations in rate-dependent av nodal properties are a novel and potentially important mechanism through which interventions may affect av nodal conduction.
normal small bowel biopsy followed by coeliac disease. we report four patients (two children, one adolescent, and one adult) having normal small bowel mucosa shown on a biopsy specimen taken before the initial diagnosis of coeliac disease was made. the first biopsy was undertaken in two cases because of suspected malabsorption, in the third because of suspected dermatitis herpetiformis, and in the fourth as part of a coeliac disease family study. after a further 2.6 to 9 years on a diet containing gluten, small bowel villous atrophy with crypt hyperplasia compatible with coeliac disease was found on a second biopsy specimen. the hla type of the patients was that typical for coeliac disease; all were dr3 positive. within the families three other patients with coeliac disease have been diagnosed, two earlier and one at the time the first biopsy was undertaken. four other hla-dr3 positive haploidentical first degree relatives were found and had biopsies. all four had normal small bowel villous architecture, one had an increased intraepithelial cell count, and another was positive for reticulin and endomysium antibodies. coeliac disease may exist latent in patients having normal mucosa when eating a normal diet containing gluten.
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas: clinicopathological features and surgical treatment. forty-five (9.9%) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery: 24 had a blood collection, 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis, and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis. thirteen patients (28.9%) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy, whereas another 32 had an "asymptomatic" hemorrhage, that is, the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma. nineteen tumors (42.2%) showed marked suprasellar extension, 8 (17.8%) showed moderate extension, and 11 (24.5%) showed slight extension; another 2 (4.4%) were laterosellar and 5 (11.1%) were intrasellar. invasive behavior was present in 32 cases (71.1%) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage. the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive; therefore, we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor. two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery, whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route. it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible, even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy. the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results, but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary, namely, postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients, bromocriptine in 12, and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all. in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years, 5 (11.1%) symptomatic recurrences were observed.
pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis. advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis have occurred primarily through the use of experimental animal models. these models have proven to be particularly valuable in experimental bacterial meningitis, focusing on the bacterial virulence factors responsible for the initiation of infections, cns invasion, and induction of sas inflammation. recent studies have examined the formation of host inflammatory cytokines in response to these virulence factors. these cytokines may be responsible for many of the pathophysiologic consequences of bacterial meningitis (eg. increased bbb permeability, cerebral edema, and increased intracranial pressure). meningitis due to c. neoformans occurs most commonly in patients with defects in cell-mediated immunity (eg, aids), and the depletion of t helper cells in aids patients may allow unrestricted cryptococcal growth. viral meningitis is an illness of low prevalence when compared with the overall occurrence of viral infections at other sites. cns infection usually occurs by means of traversal across barriers that normally exclude viral invasion of the cns, primarily through hematogenous dissemination from initial sites of infection. these advances in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of bacterial, fungal, and viral meningitis may lead to the development of innovative treatment strategies for these disorders.
prognosis of patients with ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and a normal electrophysiologic study. the outcome of 26 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia (n = 16) or ventricular fibrillation (n = 10) and no inducible ventricular tachycardia (less than or equal to 10 beats) by baseline programmed stimulation was studied. coronary artery disease was present in 14 patients, dilated cardiomyopathy was seen in seven, valvular heart disease was present in two, and no apparent cardiac abnormalities were found in three. the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 53 +/- 14%. during the follow-up period of 24 +/- 16 months, actuarial survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 95% and 89% for sudden death and 95% and 83% for total cardiac death, respectively. no patients with a known ejection fraction greater than 30% died suddenly during the follow-up. noninducibility by programmed stimulation in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation is associated with a relatively preserved ventricular function. it may predict a low risk of sudden death in patients with preserved ventricular function.
effect of activity on supraventricular tachyarrhythmias after coronary artery bypass surgery. the purpose of this study was to evaluate patient activities, professional staff activities, backrest position, and diurnal variations as factors that may contribute to the onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (svt) after coronary artery bypass surgery (cabg). the activities surrounding the recognition of first-onset svt, as well as preoperative and postoperative data and patient characteristics were examined in 249 patients having cabg. one hundred seventy-three patients qualified for the study; 28% of these patients (n = 49) had svt. no statistical difference was found between the subjects with svt and those without svt when sex, cross-clamp time, creatine kinase peak, hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, and number of bypasses were examined. patients who had svt were older than those who did not: 64.8 years for the svt group versus 60.7 years for the non-svt group (p less than 0.01). svt was rare in the first 24 hours after surgery, whereas 60% of the cases occurred during the next 48 hours, without significant diurnal variation: mean time of onset was 11:50 am. no particular activity of the patient or nurse influenced the onset of svt during the postoperative period in this group.
alcohol consumption in patients with colorectal adenomatous polyps. the risk of developing colorectal adenomatous polyps is probably increased by a variety of dietary and environmental factors. we found an association with current alcohol and cigarette consumption. the risk of polyps was increased three times in drinkers who did not smoke and two times in smokers who did not drink, with those who both drank and smoked having 12 times the risk of total abstainers. since colonic adenomatous polyps are generally regarded as premalignant lesions, these results lend support to the view that alcohol consumption may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of colorectal neoplasia, thus reinforcing the proposed polyp/carcinoma sequence in colorectal carcinogenesis. the role of smoking, however, is less clear particularly since the lack of association of colorectal carcinoma and smoking has been reported in many other studies.
strabismus caused by melanoma metastatic to an extraocular muscle. nonocular melanoma rarely metastasizes to the orbit. we report the case of a melanoma presumably arising from an axillary lymph node sinus that metastasized to the left medial rectus muscle causing proptosis, diplopia, and reduced saccadic velocity measurements. clinical, radiographic, and histopathologic data are presented and discussed.
estimates of morbidity and mortality rates for diarrheal diseases in american children. although the importance of diarrhea as a prime cause of morbidity and death in developing countries is well recognized, the disease burden in the united states has never been thoroughly examined. we have prepared national estimates of the annual number of cases of diarrhea in children less than 5 years of age and of the outcome, measured in terms of visits to a physician, hospitalizations, and deaths. the annual number of diarrheal episodes was estimated by reviewing longitudinal studies of childhood diarrhea conducted in the united states and extrapolating these data to the nation. estimates of physician visits, hospitalizations, and deaths were prepared from a variety of national data sources. we estimate that 16.5 million children less than 5 years of age have between 21 and 37 million episodes of diarrhea annually. of these, 2.1 to 3.7 million episodes lead to a physician visit, a total of 220,000 patients are hospitalized, and 325 to 425 children die. the major cost of diarrhea lies in the high numbers and cost of hospitalizations, because approximately 10.6% of hospitalizations in this age group are for diarrhea. diarrheal deaths occur in relatively small numbers, are more common in the south and among black persons, are potentially avoidable, and could represent as much as 10% of the preventable postneonatal infant death in the united states. these estimates underscore the extensive burden of diarrheal illness in children in the united states and suggest that interventions to prevent disease or decrease its severity could be cost-effective.
implications of a dynamical systems approach to understanding infant kicking behavior. implications of the dynamical systems approach to understanding movement dysfunction in infants are discussed. traditional theories of motor development attribute changes in movement to the hierarchical maturation of the central nervous system. the dynamical systems approach emphasizes that movement self-organizes as the result of the interaction of the participating subsystems in developmental and real time. in this article, i discuss, from the theoretical perspective of the dynamical systems approach, the organization of leg movements in low- and high-risk preterm and full-term infants, developmental changes in movement in low-risk preterm infants from 34 weeks' gestational age to 40 weeks' postgestational age, and differences in movement between low-risk preterm infants at 40 weeks' postgestational age and full-term infants. preliminary data on high-risk preterm infants are presented. based on these data, the necessity to review and reinterpret traditional concepts of motor development is explored. suggestions are offered and questions posed on how the dynamical systems perspective may influence the practice of physical therapy in the evaluation, and treatment of infants at risk for movement dysfunction.
estimation of myocardial infarct size with ultrasonic tissue characterization. background. ultrasonic tissue characterization (utc) can distinguish normal from infarcted myocardium. infarcted myocardium shows an increase in integrated backscatter and loss of cardiac cycle-dependent variation in backscatter. the cyclic variation of backscatter is closely related to regional myocardial contractile function; the latter is a marker of myocardial ischemia. the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that intramural cyclic variation of backscatter can map and estimate infarct size. methods and results. transmural myocardial infarction was produced in 12 anesthetized, open-chest dogs by total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery for 4 hours. a real-time ultrasonic tissue characterization instrument, which graphically displays integrated backscatter rayleigh 5, cardiac cycle-dependent variation, and patterns of cyclic variation in backscatter, was used to map infarct size and area at risk of infarction. staining with 2,3,4-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (ttc) and patent blue dye was used to estimate infarct size and the area at risk, respectively. the ratio of infarct size to area at risk of infarction determined with utc correlated well with that determined with tcc (r = 0.862, y = 23.7 +/- 0.792x). correlation coefficients for infarct size and area at risk were also good (r = 0.736, y = 12.3 +/- 737x for infarct size and r = 0.714, y = 5.80 +/- 1.012x for area at risk). however, utc underestimated both infarct size and area at risk. conclusions. ultrasonic tissue characterization may provide a reliable, noninvasive method to estimate myocardial infarct size.
hepatic lesions in the rabbit induced by acoustic cavitation. tissue damage during shock-wave lithotripsy is presumably secondary to cavitation phenomena involving the collapsus of gas bubbles in a fluid. to enhance shock-wave-related hepatic lesions, intravascular gas microbubbles were administered. three groups of eight rabbits each received either 500 shock waves focused on the right hepatic lobe (group 1), gas microbubbles as a mixture of 50 cm3 of air with 50 cm3 of gelatin infused through an arterial catheter (group 2), or 500 shock waves and gas microbubbles simultaneously (group 3). in group 1, two animals had two to three subcapsular hepatic hematomas (diameter, less than 5 mm) and five had one to five intraparenchymal hematomas (less than 1 mm). in group 2, a moderate liver congestion was observed in three animals. in group 3, all animals had numerous subcapsular and intraperenchymal hematomas (2-30 mm). the hematomas were centered around the portal spaces, associated with lacunae (0.5-5 mm in diameter). hematomas were also present on the anterior wall of intraabdominal organs. it was concluded that intravascular infusion of gas microbubbles into the path of a shock-wave generator dramatically enhances tissue damage. this technique, potentially useful in the treatment of hepatic tumors, needs refinement to confine lesions in a more uniform pattern to the targeted parenchyma.
complications of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap in head and neck reconstruction. a retrospective review of the complications in 211 patients undergoing pectoralis major myocutaneous flap reconstruction is presented. the flap was used for mucosal lining of the oral cavity or oropharynx in 109 patients, for pharyngoesophageal reconstruction in 44, for skin coverage in 47, and for other locations in 14 patients. flap-related complications developed in 63% of the patients. these included flap necrosis, suture line dehiscence, fistula formation, infection, and hematoma. analysis of risk factors for the development of flap complications showed the following factors to be significant: age over 70; female gender; nomographic overweight; albumin less than 4 g/dl; use of the flap in reconstruction of the oral cavity after major glossectomy; and presence of other systemic diseases. the median length of hospitalization for those developing complications was 33 days compared with 16 days for those who did not develop any complications. thirty-five (26%) of the 135 patients developing complications required reoperation and only 2 among these required a second flap. similarly, only 13 of the 61 patients who developed fistulas required surgical closure.
pathophysiology, monitoring, and management of the ventilator-dependent patient: considerations for drug therapy, emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis. adult respiratory distress syndrome (ards), or noncardiac pulmonary edema, is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy, to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology, and to prevent subsequent complications. supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen, positive end-expiratory pressure, and, often, mechanical ventilation. the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards. complications from ards include stress ulcers, which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced. antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis, but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care. because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious, choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions. no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia.
plasma concentrations of epinephrine during cpr in the dog. study objective: the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the marked increase in the plasma concentrations of epinephrine during cardiopulmonary arrest and basic life support (bls) could be due in part to decreased distribution and/or elimination. design and interventions: dogs were randomly assigned to undergo adrenalectomy or sham-operation. some adrenalectomized animals received an epinephrine infusion. measurements and main results: in the seven sham-operated dogs, the plasma epinephrine concentrations increased markedly during bls as expected. in the seven adrenalectomized dogs receiving a constant infusion of epinephrine, cardiopulmonary arrest and bls induced a three to sixfold increase in plasma epinephrine concentrations, with an increase in the mean plasma epinephrine concentrations (calculated from the area under the curve) of 1.21 +/- 0.12 ng/ml (p less than .05). in the seven adrenalectomized dogs receiving a constant epinephrine infusion but not subjected to cardiopulmonary arrest, the plasma epinephrine concentrations remained stable. finally, in the seven adrenalectomized dogs not receiving an epinephrine infusion, the mean plasma epinephrine concentrations during bls (calculated from the area under the curve) increased only by 0.05 +/- 0.04 ng/ml, significantly less than in adrenalectomized dogs receiving an epinephrine infusion (p less than .01). conclusion: the increase in plasma epinephrine concentrations during cardiopulmonary arrest and bls is due in part to an altered disposition of epinephrine.
cultured human atherosclerotic plaque smooth muscle cells retain transforming potential and display enhanced expression of the myc protooncogene. the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (smc) is critical to atherosclerotic plaque formation. the monoclonal hypothesis proposes that the stimulus for this smc proliferation is a mutational event. here we describe a procedure for growing human plaque smooth muscle cells (p-smc) in culture. we show that p-smcs derived from two patients differ from smc cultured from normal vascular tissue in expression of the protooncogene myc. one p-smc strain was extensively characterized; these diploid, karyotypically normal cells have a finite life span in culture. ultrastructural examination revealed two populations, one with classic contractile smc appearance, the other, modulated to a synthetic state. northern blotting showed a 2- to 6-fold and a 6- to 11-fold enhanced expression of myc by p-smc, compared to smc derived from healthy human aorta (ha-smc) and saphenous vein (hv-smc), respectively. in contrast, the p-smc and hv-smc expressed similar levels of message for the genes n-myc, l-myc, ha-ras, fos, sis, myb, ldl receptor, egf receptor, igf i receptor, igf ii, and hmg coa reductase. finally, although p-smcs are not tumorigenic, dna isolated from these cells is positive in the transfection-nude mouse tumor assay. myc, however, does not appear to be the transforming gene because no newly introduced human myc gene was detected in the p-smc-associated nude mouse tumor. thus human atherosclerotic p-smcs possess both an activated myc gene and a transforming gene that is retained throughout many cell passages.
dose-response evaluation of oral labetalol in patients presenting to the emergency department with accelerated hypertension. study objective: dose-response evaluation of oral labetalol (100, 200, or 300 mg) on heart rate and systemic blood pressure in emergency department patients with hypertensive urgency (diastolic blood pressure, 110 to 140 mm hg, and no end-organ evidence of hypertensive emergency). methods: this acute-treatment, dose-ranging study used a randomized, double-blind, parallel design. patients with supine diastolic blood pressure of 110 to 140 mm hg after 30 minutes of bedrest received an oral dose of labetalol. supine blood pressure and heart rate were measured manually and recorded hourly for four hours after dose. diastolic blood pressure of 100 mm hg or less or a 30-mm hg reduction in diastolic blood pressure was considered a treatment success. results: two hundred fifty-five patients were evaluated for inclusion, and 36 patients (19 women and 17 men; mean age, 44 years; age range, 23 to 67 years) were studied. the most frequent reason for exclusion was a spontaneous decrease in diastolic blood pressure to less than 110 mm hg (31%) with bedrest. there were 12 patients in each treatment group. compared with baseline, the 100-mg dose significantly (p less than .05) reduced heart rate at three and four hours after dose, and the 300-mg dose significantly (p less than .05) reduced heart rate at one, two, and three hours after dose; the 200-mg dose did not significantly affect heart rate. all doses produced a significant decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressures at one, two, three, and four hours after dose compared with baseline. there were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups with regard to systolic or diastolic blood pressure or heart rate at baseline or one, two, three, or four hours after dose. at two hours after dose, diastolic blood pressure control was observed in 75%, 58%, and 67% of patients receiving 100, 200, and 300 mg, respectively (p = .903). at four hours after dose, diastolic blood pressure control was observed in 50%, 64%, and 67% of patients receiving 100, 200, and 300 mg, respectively (p = .755). a comparison of treatment success rates between the two time periods showed a waning of response with the 100-mg dose of labetalol at hour 4 compared with hour 2 (p less than .05). no adverse effects were observed. conclusion: labetalol provides safe and effective treatment for hypertensive urgencies when administered orally in doses of 100 to 300 mg.
heterogeneity in spasmodic dysphonia. neurologic and voice findings. spasmodic dysphonia is a disturbance of phonation with laryngeal spasms. we report voice and neurologic examination findings in 45 subjects. neurologic abnormalities were found in 32 subjects (71.1%). rapid alternating movement abnormalities, weakness, and tremor were common. incoordination and spasticity were rare. lower extremity findings were frequent. abnormalities were bilateral. spasmodic dysphonia severity was related to age. type, severity, and duration of vocal symptoms were not different for subjects with or without neurologic abnormalities. vocal tremor was more frequent in neurologically abnormal subjects. involvement of a pallidothalamic-supplementary motor area system could account for neurologic findings, brain imaging findings, and clinical heterogeneity. the view emerging is that spasmodic dysphonia is a manifestation of disordered motor control involving systems of neurons rather than single anatomical sites.
pathogenesis of biliary sludge. the increasing application of ultrasonography in biliary tract disease had led to more frequent recognition of an old disorder--"biliary sludge." sludge is detected on ultrasound as low-amplitude echoes without acoustic shadowing. it layers in the most dependent part of the gallbladder and shifts with positioning. particulate matter in bile, such as cholesterol monohydrate crystals, has been shown to be echogenic. agglomeration of these crystals in biles with high mucus content accounts for the layering and the characteristic appearance of the movement of sludge with alteration in patient position. within the gallbladder, the stability of the vesicular form of cholesterol and protein-lipid interactions are important determinants of cholesterol precipitation. in mixed and pigment gallstones, the equilibrium between ionized and unionized calcium and the hydrolysis of conjugated bilirubin are also important factors. although the risk factors contributing to the formation of gallbladder sludge have not been critically examined, it is now known that in some instances sludge can produce biliary pain and can be associated with acalculous cholecystitis, recurrent pancreatitis and, ultimately, the formation of gallstones. a better appreciation of the pathogenesis of sludge formation can help in the understanding of the genesis of gallstones and also perhaps in understanding other documented but poorly understood biliary and pancreatic disorders.
effective surgical adjuvant therapy for high-risk rectal carcinoma background. radiation therapy as an adjunct to surgery for rectal cancer has been shown to reduce local recurrence but has not improved survival. in a previous study, combined radiation and chemotherapy improved survival significantly as compared with surgery alone, but not as compared with adjuvant radiation, which many regard as standard therapy. we designed a combination regimen to optimize the contribution of chemotherapy, decrease recurrence, and improve survival as compared with adjuvant radiation alone. methods. two hundred four patients with rectal carcinoma that was either deeply invasive or metastatic to regional lymph nodes were randomly assigned to postoperative radiation alone (4500 to 5040 cgy) or to radiation plus fluorouracil, which was both preceded and followed by a cycle of systemic therapy with fluorouracil plus semustine (methyl-ccnu). results. after a median follow-up of more than seven years, the combined therapy had reduced the recurrence of rectal cancer by 34 percent (p = 0.0016; 95 percent confidence interval, 12 to 50 percent). initial local recurrence was reduced by 46 percent (p = 0.036; 95 percent confidence interval, 2 to 70 percent), and distant metastasis by 37 percent (p = 0.011; 95 percent confidence interval, 9 to 57 percent). in addition, combined therapy reduced the rate of cancer-related deaths by 36 percent (p = 0.0071; 95 percent confidence interval, 14 to 53 percent) and the overall death rate by 29 percent (p = 0.025; 95 percent confidence interval, 7 to 45 percent). its acute toxic effects included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia. these effects were seldom severe. severe, delayed treatment-related reactions, usually small-bowel obstruction requiring surgery, occurred in 6.7 percent of all patients receiving radiation, and the frequencies of these complications were comparable in both treatment groups. conclusions. the combination of postoperative local therapy with radiation plus fluorouracil and systemic therapy with a fluorouracil-based regimen significantly and substantively improves the results of therapy for rectal carcinoma with a poor prognosis, as compared with postoperative radiation alone.
hybridization protection assay: a rapid, sensitive, and specific method for detection of philadelphia chromosome-positive leukemias. the philadelphia (ph1) chromosome is present in greater than 90% of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) and in 2% to 20% of those with acute leukemias, for which it is an important prognostic marker too. the chimeric bcr-abl mrnas resulting from the translocation encode either a 210-kd or a 190-kd protein. the techniques used to detect ph1 chromosome include karyotyping, southern analysis to demonstrate bcr rearrangement, and polymerase chain reaction to amplify the bcr-abl transcripts. however, the routine performance of these methods by clinical laboratories is cumbersome, time consuming, and exposes laboratory personnel to radioisotopes. we describe here the clinical application of a new method, the hybridization protection assay (hpa), which uses chemiluminescent acridinium-ester-labeled probes in conjunction with pcr for detection of the amplified bcr-abl sequences. the method is sensitive, specific, and can reliably distinguish between the transcripts for p190bcr-abl and p210bcr-abl. in contrast to the 2 days or longer required for conventional hybridization, hpa analysis can be completed in less than 30 minutes. we have successfully used this method to analyze 60 leukemia samples (34 from ph1-negative acute leukemias; 6 from ph1-positive acute leukemias; and 20 from cml) with complete correlation (of bcr-abl positivity or negativity) with the results of karyotype or southern blot analysis of genomic dna for bcr rearrangement. therefore, the hpa, in conjunction with pcr, appears to provide a rapid and reliable test for the diagnosis of ph1-positivity.
relation between flow grade after thrombolytic therapy and the effect of angioplasty on left ventricular function: a prospective randomized trial. recent intervention trials during myocardial infarction demonstrated no benefit from emergency angioplasty after thrombolytic therapy when compared with either delayed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) or a conservative strategy. however, it is possible that subgroups of patients may benefit from early intervention with angioplasty. we performed a prospective randomized trial in patients with a patent infarct-related artery after thrombolytic therapy to determine whether initial flow grade is related to infarct-zone function and whether patients with ineffective reperfusion (greater than 90% stenosis or thrombolysis in myocardial infarction [timi] flow less than or equal to 2) might benefit from immediate ptca. thrombolytic therapy was administered to 170 patients at a mean of 2.1 +/- 0.5 hours after onset of myocardial infarction. a patent infarct-related artery that was suitable for angioplasty was present in 89 patients who comprised the study group; after randomization, 47 of 50 patients with a patent infarct-related artery had successful emergency ptca 3.8 +/- 1.5 hours after onset of symptoms, and 39 were scheduled for delayed (18 to 48-hour) ptca. reocclusion occurred before the scheduled (delayed) procedure in eight patients (20.5%), and was symptomatic in six. infarct-region function (by the centerline method) measured initially, before discharge, and at 4 months was similar in both groups; improvement was significant (p less than 0.001) at discharge when compared with initial values with no further change at 4 months. however, patients with ineffective reperfusion had greater hypokinesia initially (p less than 0.05) compared with those with effective reperfusion (less than or equal to 90% stenosis plus timi flow 3). moreover, independent of the timing of ptca, improvement was greater before discharge in patients with ineffective reperfusion (p less than 0.05) with a trend also evident at 4 months. importantly, 42 of 51 patients (82%) with a residual lumen less than 0.4 mm after thrombolysis had some improvement in function at discharge; this compared with a previous study in which patients with a similar degree of stenosis (without ptca) had no improvement. moreover, reocclusion occurred before scheduled (delayed) ptca in 37% of patients with greater than 90% stenosis compared with only 5% in those with less than or equal to 90% stenosis (p = 0.02). thus flow grade is an important determinant of myocardial function in patients with a patent artery after thrombolytic therapy and is predictive both of improvement in wall motion after ptca and early reocclusion.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
giant hemangioma of the liver with pain, fever, and abnormal liver tests. report of two cases. in conclusion, we report the cases of two patients with large hemangiomas of the liver, abdominal pain, increased esr and fibrinogen, increased serum alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase activity, and normal white blood cell counts. clinical and biochemical abnormalities disappeared after surgical resection. increased esr and fibrinogen are probably related to thrombosis within the tumor. this mode of presentation may suggest a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.
intraoperative ultrasonic imaging of the ascending aorta in ischemic heart disease. in an attempt to locate any atherosclerotic lesion in the ascending aorta and to prevent embolization, intraoperative b-mode ultrasonography was performed in 100 patients with ischemic heart disease (31 women and 69 men). ultrasonography was carried out with a 10-mhz probe placed directly on the ascending aorta. ultrasonic imaging demonstrated an atherosclerotic lesion in the lower half of the aorta in 76 patients (76%), a lesion in the upper half of the aorta in 89 patients (89%), and a lesion at the orifice of the innominate artery in 99 patients (99%). prospective palpation identified an atherosclerotic lesion in 12 (25%) of 48 patients. thoracic computed tomography in 79 patients showed calcification in the lower half of the aorta in 6 patients (7.6%) and in the upper half of the aorta in 11 (13.9%). palpation and thoracic computed tomography underestimated the frequency of atherosclerotic lesions. intraoperative ultrasonography accurately identified atherosclerotic disease. this technique allows the surgeon to modify cannulation, aortic clamping, and operative technique to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke due to embolization of atherosclerotic debris from the ascending aorta.
ability of circular extrachromosomal dna molecules to carry amplified mycn proto-oncogenes in human neuroblastomas in vivo. amplification of the proto-oncogene mycn (also known as n-myc) in neuroblastomas has been shown to correlate with both disease stage and prognosis, yet little is known about the dna structures that carry amplified mycn genes in neuroblastomas in vivo. we have used dna irradiation and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis to analyze mycn amplification structures in eight neuroblastomas from separate patients (four primary tumors and four metastatic lesions exhibiting mycn amplification). six of the eight neuroblastomas (three primary tumors and three metastatic lesions) exhibited mycn dna irradiation profiles consistent with the presence of circular extrachromosomal dna amplification structures. five neuroblastomas possessed amplification structures within the size range of double minute chromosomes, and one contained smaller dna circles. two neuroblastomas exhibited mycn dna irradiation patterns consistent with larger (presumably chromosomal) amplification structures. multiple sizes of dna circles were observed in the neuroblastomas of four different patients, implying in vivo multimerization of amplification structures. the presence of circular mycn amplification structures in six of eight neuroblastomas examined suggests that circular dna molecules are important structures in in vivo gene amplification.
association of perioperative myocardial ischemia with cardiac morbidity and mortality in men undergoing noncardiac surgery. the study of perioperative ischemia research group background. adverse cardiac events are a major cause of morbidity and mortality after noncardiac surgery. it is necessary to determine the predictors of these outcomes in order to focus efforts on prevention and treatment. patients undergoing noncardiac surgery sometimes have postoperative cardiac events. it would be helpful to know which patients are at highest risk. methods. we prospectively studied 474 men with coronary artery disease (243) or at high risk for it (231) who were undergoing elective noncardiac surgery. we gathered historical, clinical, laboratory, and physiologic data during hospitalization and for 6 to 24 months after surgery. myocardial ischemia was assessed by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, beginning two days before surgery and continuing for two days after. results. eighty-three patients (18 percent) had postoperative cardiac events in the hospital that were classified as ischemic events (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or unstable angina) (15 patients), congestive heart failure (30), or ventricular tachycardia (38). postoperative myocardial ischemia occurred in 41 percent of the monitored patients and was associated with a 2.8-fold increase in the odds of all adverse cardiac outcomes (95 percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 4.9; p less than 0.0002) and a 9.2-fold increase in the odds of an ischemic event (95 percent confidence interval, 2.0 to 42.0; p less than 0.004). multivariate analysis showed no other clinical, historical, or perioperative variable to be independently associated with ischemic events, including cardiac-risk index, a history of previous myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure, or the occurrence of ischemia before or during surgery. conclusions. in high-risk patients undergoing noncardiac surgery, early postoperative myocardial ischemia is an important correlate of adverse cardiac outcomes.
tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap in neck burn contracture. neck contracture after burn injury can result in severe functional as well as aesthetic deformities. contracture can recur even after wide and complete release and full-thickness skin grafting. recurrence is partly due to the inherent difficulties in both early postoperative immobilization and the required long-term splinting. when adjacent tissues are also burned, adequate local tissue for reconstruction may not be available; therefore, free-tissue transfer may be necessary. the large surface area that is required after adequate release may be provided by tissue expansion before free-tissue transfer. in the case presented the use of tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap for the reconstruction of a recurrent neck contracture is described.
atheroemboli to the lower urinary tract: a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease--a case report. atheroemboli to the lower genitourinary tract may serve as a marker for disseminated atheroembolic disease, a highly lethal condition. a case presentation and review of our institional experience is presented.
hla-dq beta sequence polymorphism and genetic susceptibility to iddm. the analysis of hla-dq beta nucleotide sequence polymorphism in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) patients and control subjects suggests a role for the dq beta-chain in genetic susceptibility. sequence determination and oligonucleotide hybridization was carried out on enzymatically amplified dna from various hla-dr-typed individuals, including the rare class of dr2+ patients. in the analysis of dq beta variation in dr4, drw6, and dr2 haplotypes, a correlation was observed between the presence of the negatively charged residue asp at position 57 and low susceptibility and the presence of an ala (dr4), val (drw6), or ser (dr2) and higher susceptibility. however, important exceptions to this pattern have been identified in the analysis of heterozygous dr1/4 iddm patients. in these individuals, susceptibility appears to correlate with specific dr beta l alleles (dw4) on the dr4 haplotype, rather than with the dq beta allele (dqb3.2) that contains ala at position 57. the dq beta alleles found in some chinese iddm patients also proved discordant with the position-57 correlations. thus, although there is a general correlation between the residue at position 57 of the dq beta-chain and iddm susceptibility, these data do not support the notion that asp 57 confers complete resistance or protection to iddm. in general, these results suggest that iddm susceptibility is conferred by specific combinations of dq beta and dr beta sequences.
hair transplantation (a new method for recipient site suturing): the upper dermal running stitch. recipient hair transplant plugs may heal into place with palpable, and unfortunately, visible borders. this appearance, called "cobblestoning," is reminiscent of the bumps in a cobblestone street. the author presents a new, rapid method of suturing transplanted plugs that greatly reduces cobblestoning, virtually eliminates traumatic plug loss, and facilitates row-by-row hair transplantation. additionally, postoperative bandaging is not necessary, shower cleansing may commence within hours, and postoperative activity may be unlimited.
adrenal hormones and the anorectic response and adaptation of rats to amino acid imbalance. the role of adrenal function in the anorectic response and adaptation of rats to a diet with an isoleucine (ile) imbalance was investigated. in the first of four experiments, rats were fed a mildly ile-imbalanced diet after treatment with metyrapone, and inhibitor of glucocorticoid synthesis. in two separate experiments, rats were presented with either a mildly or severely ile-imbalanced diet (4.93 and 9.86% imbalanced amino acid mixture, respectively) after bilateral adrenalectomy. finally, the effects of ics 205-930, a serotonin-3 receptor antagonist, on the intake of mildly ile-imbalanced diet were tested in adrenalectomized animals. in each experiment a 2 x 2 factorial design was used. neither metyrapone nor adrenalectomy altered the initial depression in the intake of an imbalanced diet. the adaptation phase in the response of adrenalectomized rats fed a mildly ile-imbalanced diet was not different from that of controls, but adrenalectomized rats fed severely ile-imbalanced diets were unable to adapt. adrenalectomy did not alter the anti-anoretic activity of ics 205-930 in this model. these results suggest that adrenal hormones are not necessary for the initial anoretic response or adaptation of rats to an ile-imbalanced diet, nor are they implicated in the anti-anorectic effect of serotonin-3 blockade.
cardiac arrest after hypertonic citrate anticoagulation for chronic hemodialysis. the use of regional citrate anticoagulation as an alternative to standard therapy in hemodialysis patients at risk for bleeding complications has been well described. recently, a method using hypertonic citrate has been reported as being safe and efficacious, and having several advantages over the usual techniques. two patients who suffered cardiac arrests after dialysis using hypertonic citrate are discussed. both received anticoagulation as described in the literature, although the citrate infusion rate was lower than recommended. electrocardiograms obtained during the first such session showed no change in the q-tc interval with initiation of the infusion in either patient. both were noted to have cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of discontinuation of dialysis, without warning symptoms, following the second and fifteenth treatments, respectively. the initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation did not respond to standard advanced cardiac life support therapy, and the patients were not successfully resuscitated until they received intravenous calcium. the authors postulate that the loss of positive calcium flux from the dialysate, in conjunction with circulating unmetabolized citrate, caused an electrolyte imbalance leading to the potentially fatal arrhythmia. caution is recommended in using this method of regional anticoagulation.
blood pressure measurements during dental checkups representative of 26-hour registration. the effect of dental checkups on blood pressure was investigated. in 27 normotensive patients (13 men and 14 women) aged 22 to 64 years (mean 39.75 +/- 10.5 years), a 26-hour continuous, noninvasive blood pressure registration was carried out. of each patient at least 175 blood pressure measurements were registered during these 26 hours, giving a total amount of 4725 blood pressure measurements. a dental checkup appointment with the family dentist was included. blood pressure values displayed the well-known diurnal variation, but the visit to the dental surgeon was not accompanied by a rise in blood pressure. there was no significant difference between the blood pressure values during the 26-hour period and those during the checkup period. during a rest period after the dental checkup, neither the systolic nor the diastolic pressure fell to any degree in relation to the 26-hour values or the visit to the surgeon.
miscellaneous adverse effects of low-versus high-osmolality contrast media: a study revised the authors analyzed data from two recent articles in radiology in which the quality and results of randomized control trials (rcts) comparing the efficacy or safety of the low-osmolality contrast media (lom) iopamidol, iohexol, and ioxaglate with that of the high-osmolarity contrast media (hom) diatrizoate, iodamide, iopamide, iothalamate, and metrizoate were assessed. one conclusion in the source articles was that no differences were seen between the two groups of contrast media in frequency of nausea, vomiting, and urticaria. however, the lom group included both nonionic lom (nim) and the ionic contrast medium ioxaglate. the authors found that various complications associated with the use of contrast media were much less common with nim than with hom; statistically this lower frequency is highly significant. this difference was obscured in the previous studies by the pooling of rcts in which the less toxic nim were used and rcts in which the more toxic ionic contrast medium ioxaglate was used.
primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder. we treated 11 patients with primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder. the typical patient is a woman more than 50 years old who presents with urgency and frequency of micturition, and occasionally gross hematuria. hydronephrosis is present in half of the patients and cystoscopy usually reveals a solid tumor. partial cystectomy, when feasible, with or without radiotherapy and chemotherapy is the usual treatment modality. when localized to the bladder, malignant lymphoma has an over-all favorable prognosis.
diagnosis of tracheal injury in mechanically ventilated premature infants by flexible bronchoscopy. a pilot study. flexible bronchoscopy (fb) is uniquely suited for the study of large airway lesions in the ventilated premature infant. however, no standardized clinical scoring system of distal tracheal injury exists and the adverse consequences of fb in ventilated premature infants are not well described. using a prototype olympus fiberoptic ultrathin bronchoscope with a directable tip and an outer diameter of 2.2 mm, we serially scored distal tracheal injury in conventionally ventilated premature infants on the basis of mucosal and obstructive changes observed at bronchoscopy. in addition, we prospectively evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiovascular and pulmonary effects during, immediately after, and within 1 h of fb. we performed 21 fbs in eight conventionally ventilated premature infants with birth weight of 1,239 +/- 438 g and gestational age of 30 +/- 3 weeks. the carina and mainstem bronchi were easily visualized in all infants using the prototype bronchoscope. during the first several days of life, moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury occurred frequently, while moderate-to-severe obstructive injury occurred infrequently. distal mucosal injury appeared to improve during the fourth week of life. mild distal obstructive injury began to appear during the second week of life. adverse consequences of fb observed in our patient population included transient hypoxemia and bradycardia during fb, changes in systolic blood pressure immediately and within 1 h after fb, and emesis immediately after fb. serious adverse cardiovascular or pulmonary effects were not observed. we conclude that fb can be performed safely with appropriate monitoring and is a useful tool in the clinical assessment and serial evaluation of distal tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants. we speculate that moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury may be associated with the development of later obstructive injury. on the basis of this preliminary study, further prospective investigations of tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants appear to be warranted.
diabetic retinopathy in blacks. diabetic eye disease, particularly diabetic retinopathy, is the leading cause of new cases of legal blindness in people 20-74 yr of age in the united states. the prevalence and rate of diabetes in this age-group are higher in blacks than in whites. the rate of blindness from diabetic eye disease is also higher in blacks than in whites. severe macular edema, the most frequent cause of decreased vision in diabetic retinopathy, appears to be more common in blacks. risk factors for developing macular edema include poorly controlled hypertension, hyperglycemia, and duration of disease. the higher prevalence of hypertension in blacks may contribute to the increased severity of diabetic retinopathy. further evaluation is necessary to determine the influence of race on the severity of diabetic retinopathy.
the management of aneurysms and arterio-venous fistulae of the popliteal artery arising from war trauma. emphasis on sigmoid operative approach. between 1986-1988, 600 vascular cases arising from the iran-iraq conflict were dealt with within an 18 month period and 60 cases of popliteal artery and/or venous disruption were encountered presenting at variable times after injury. a policy of management between the forward and base hospital surgical teams was introduced, observing the following broad categorizations: (a) assessment/referral, (b) assessment/fasciotomy/referral, (c) immediate operation/referral for further operation/review/management. two types of incision were used to enter the popliteal fossa: (a) a medial incision and (b) a sigmoid posterior incision (which we now favor). the results of this strategy of management and operative technique (when compared with our previous experience within the same time frame) suggested an improved outcome. fifty-four out of 60 cases had a satisfactory operative result with below-knee amputation being required in only four cases and higher amputations in two others. no operative or postoperative deaths occurred. the implementation of this "vetting policy" at the front line appeared to reduce the number of amputations and assisted the clarification of management criteria in assessing limb viability at the forward hospital when a large number of casualties were being received. operative access using the sigmoid posterior incision was not associated with any complications, offered better exposure than the medial incision and was technically easier for the surgeon to perform.
prostate cancer: transrectal ultrasound and pathology comparison. a preliminary study of outer gland (peripheral and central zones) and inner gland (transition zone) cancer. a study was conducted to compare results of transrectal ultrasound with pathologic findings on 116 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for treatment of prostate cancer. in 96% (111 of 116), transrectal ultrasound guided biopsies of a hypoechoic lesion proved cancer; seven patients had known stage a cancer; one patient had cancer detected by palpation and not detected by ultrasound. cancers in the outer gland (peripheral and central zones) were compared with cancers in the inner gland (transition zone) by both ultrasound and pathology. forty-eight percent (52 of 108) of cancers originating in the outer gland showed extraprostatic extension (stage c disease). the primary sites of tumor escape from the outer gland were the prostatic capsule (38%), anterior fibromuscular stroma (5%), seminal vesicle (18%), the base of the gland at the neurovascular bundle (21%), and the apex (31%). twenty-two percent (17 of 54) of cancers originating in the inner gland (transition zone) showed extraprostatic extension (stage c disease). the primary sites of tumor escape from the inner gland were the anterior fibromuscular stroma (6%) and apex (11%). both histologic and biologic differences between outer and inner gland cancers were found when tumor size was controlled. gleason scores were significantly different for inner and outer gland cancers, with mean scores of 6.2 +/- 1.6 and 7.4 +/- 0.9, respectively. an odds ratio of 8.6 confirmed the increased risk of extraprostatic extension for outer gland cancer. outer gland cancers showed increased aggressive behavior of both histologic and biologic nature. the difference in biologic aggressiveness of outer and inner gland cancers has definite implications for treatment options. use of other diagnostic parameters, such as dna ploidy, may help to determine which cancers to treat and when to treat them; this may have more relevance for cancers originating in the inner gland. strategic transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy affords accurate tumor mapping and staging when modes of internal spread and escape of cancer from both outer and inner gland are known. thus, transrectal ultrasound may be our "window of observation" through which additional research may explain the histologic and biologic discrepancies between outer and inner gland cancers.
two urokinase dose regimens in native arterial and graft occlusions: initial results of a prospective, randomized clinical trial. the effects of two urokinase (uk) dose regimens on lysis time, lytic success, primary clinical success, and frequency of complications of peripheral thrombolysis were compared. seventy-two intraarterial uk infusions were performed by means of standard catheter-directed infusion techniques in 63 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial or bypass graft occlusions. patients were prospectively randomized to high-dose (250,000 u/h for 4 hours and then 125,000 u/h) or low-dose (50,000 u/h) regimens. the mean time to complete lysis was 20.8, 26.0, 16.5, and 18.2 hours for the high-dose artery, low-dose artery, high-dose graft, and low-dose graft groups, respectively (p was not significant). respective mean infusion durations were 27.1, 35.4, 22.2, and 25.3 hours. clinical success was achieved in 65%-85% of cases. the frequency of complications was equivalent between groups, except for a higher frequency of minor bleeding complications in the high-dose group. the two urokinase dose regimens studied were equally effective in enabling peripheral thrombolysis.
use of n2o/o2/enflurane anesthesia for dental treatment of the handicapped. to develop an anesthesia maintenance method that could be expected to maintain a reasonably stable state during dental treatment of the handicapped, three methods (n2o/o2 [0% enflurane (e), n = 12], n2o/o2/0.6% e [n = 8], n2o/o2/1.5% e [n = 7]) were evaluated in terms of changes in plasma levels of cortisol, epinephrine (ep), and norepinephrine (ne). during a treatment period of 60 minutes, cortisol levels increased in the 0% e group (from 9.5 +/- 1.8 micrograms/dl to 19.4 +/- 2.4 micrograms/dl, p less than .01), did not change in 0.6% e group, and decreased in 1.5% e group (from 9.3 +/- 1.7 micrograms/dl to 5.8 +/- 1.0 micrograms/dl, p less than .01). epinephrine and ne levels increased in the 0% e group, but were suppressed in the 0.6% e and 1.5% e groups. it is suggested that n2o/o2 inhalation anesthesia supplemented with low-dose enflurane produces a stable state during dental treatment with respect to cortisol, ep, and ne responses.
hemodialysis for acute renal failure in patients with hematologic malignancies. objective: to assess the prognosis of patients with hematologic malignancies in acute renal failure who require hemodialysis. design: retrospective study. setting: icu. patients: forty-three consecutive patients. methods: prognostic analysis using both univariate and multivariate (stepwise regression) methods. results: fifteen (35%) patients recovered from acute renal failure and 12 (28%) were discharged from the icu. the prognosis of patients with acute renal failure linked to sepsis is poorer than the prognosis of the patients with acute renal failure from other etiologies. only one patient survived in the former group (n = 26) and 11 in the latter group (n = 17); p less than .0001 in multivariate analysis. when accompanied by associated respiratory failure, mortality rate was higher (93% vs. 33%; p less than .0001). the simplified acute physiology score (saps) calculated within the first 24 hr of admission was significantly (p less than .001) related to mortality when the saps was greater than or equal to 13. the presence of neutropenia and the type of hematologic malignancy were not related to a worse prognosis. tolerance to hemodialysis appeared good, and complications were rare.
carotid-subclavian bypass--a decade of experience. from august 1979 to august 1989, carotid-subclavian bypass or transposition procedures were performed on 18 women and 13 men ranging in age from 19 to 75 (mean, 58.2) years. indications for surgery included symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency in 16 (52%), upper extremity ischemia in six (19%), both vertebrobasilar insufficiency and extremity ischemia in four (13%), and stroke and/or hemispheric transient ischemic attacks in four (13%) patients. one patient (3%) had angina pectoris caused by "coronary-subclavian steal." formal bypass grafts were performed in 28 (90%) cases by means of polyterafluoroethylene (24), dacron (2), or saphenous vein (2), and carotid-subclavian transposition was performed in three (10%) cases. synchronous procedures included carotid endarterectomy (4), carotid-carotid bypass (1), and axillobrachial bypass (1). there was no operative mortality. thirty-day primary patency was 97%. follow-up has ranged from 1 to 121 (mean, 42) months. three grafts (polytetrafluoroethylene) have occluded during follow-up yielding long-term primary patency of 92% at 5 years and 83% at 8 years. relief of symptoms was initially achieved in 30 (97%) patients. recurrent symptoms have developed in six (20%) patients from 2 to 55 (mean, 26) months after surgery, including two with occluded and four with patent grafts. symptom-free survival is 89% at 1 year, 84% at 2 years, and 71% at 7 years of follow-up. six patients have died during follow-up yielding overall survival of 88% at 5 years, and 48% at 10 years.
percutaneous aspiration of brain tumor cysts via the ommaya reservoir system. we performed percutaneous aspiration of 21 brain tumor cysts in 20 patients using the ommaya reservoir system. ages ranged from 3 to 70 years, median 48. sixteen were primary tumors (12 anaplastic glioma, 2 craniopharyngioma, 1 oligodendroglioma, 1 brainstem glioma) and 4 were metastatic. fourteen had the ct appearance of a true cyst and 7 a pseudocyst. we placed 18 catheters through twist drill holes via ct stereotactic guidance and 3 through burr holes via ct guidance and effectively aspirated 3 to 50 ml cyst fluid from 1 to 18 times in each patient. postaspiration ct showed complete or significant reduction in cyst size in all patients in whom it was performed (18 after initial aspiration and 9 after subsequent aspirations). asymptomatic intracyst hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients after cyst wall biopsy and catheter placement. there have been no other complications at follow-up of 4 to 114 weeks. in our experience, tumor cyst aspiration by the ommaya reservoir system is as effective as percutaneous needle aspiration, but after catheter placement aspiration can be performed with minimal technical skill, avoiding repeated ct guidance required for needle aspiration of recurrent deep-seated cysts.
(a)typical symptoms during single needle dialysis. in 5 elderly patients, an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis. all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes, bicarbonate dialysate, and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system, on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle. these symptoms were: 1) "angina," resistant to o2 and nitrates, with biochemical stigmata of infarction, but without electrocardiogram (ecg) localization; 2) intractable persistent hypotension, not hypovolemic, lasting 1 or 2 days; 3) esophagal spasms, with inability to swallow solid food. because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis (biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin) due to red cell fragmentation (rcf), we switched these patients from fistula dialysis (a) to central catheter dialysis (b), with the same apperture, blood flow, etc. the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891; the mean ldh ratios (serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis) were 1.8 and 1.0 (= no rcf); angina events were 132 (26%) for a, and 25 (3%) for b; persistent hypotension was seen 37 (7%) times in a and 5 (0.6%) times in b; esophagal spasms were noted 65 (13%) times for a, and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae. this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle.
phase i clinical and pharmacologic study of intraperitoneal cisplatin and fluorouracil in patients with advanced intraabdominal cancer. fluorouracil (5-fu) and cisplatin display marked therapeutic synergy in preclinical models and are effective in the treatment of a number of solid tumors when combined and administered intravenously (iv). each drug has also been administered intraperitoneally (ip) and displays a favorable pharmacologic profile and acceptable clinical toxicity. we therefore undertook a phase i study to determine the feasibility and toxicity of combination ip chemotherapy with these agents. thirty-one patients with histologically documented malignancy confined to the peritoneal space were treated with cisplatin 90 mg/m2 mixed with 5-fu in 2 l of lactated ringer's solution and given ip for 4 hours every 28 days. cohorts of at least three patients received starting 5-fu concentrations ranging from 5 mmol/l (1,300 mg in 2 l) to 20 mmol/l. the dose-limiting toxicity was neutropenia with a median granulocyte nadir of 156 cells per microliter occurring at a 5-fu dose of 20 mmol/l. intrapatient escalation of the 5-fu dose was permitted and 15 cycles of chemotherapy were delivered at 5-fu concentrations greater than 20 mmol/l, the highest concentration being 30.7 mmol/l (8 g of 5-fu in 2l). other toxicities included mild to moderate nausea during all cycles of therapy, vomiting in 54% of cycles, and diarrhea in 15% of cycles. abdominal pain, renal dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy, and oral mucositis occurred infrequently and were not related to the 5-fu dose. peritoneal fluid and plasma 5-fu concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) in selected patients. mean peak plasma 5-fu concentrations ranged from 6.19 mumol/l to greater than 60 mumol/l, and peritoneal fluid to plasma 5-fu area under the curve (auc) ratios ranged from 85 to 1,150. nine of 15 patients with nonbulky disease had resolution of malignant ascites or at least a 50% reduction of peritoneal studding by tumor at repeat laparotomy. we conclude that combination ip chemotherapy with cisplatin and 5-fu is technically feasible and has acceptable clinical toxicity and a favorable pharmacologic profile. the recommended starting 5-fu dose for phase ii trials is 3,900 mg mixed with 90 mg/m2 of cisplatin in 2 l of isotonic fluid.
comparison of two levels of anticoagulant therapy in patients with substitute heart valves after cardiac valve replacement patients were blindly randomized into two groups, both receiving aspirin (330 mg) and dipyridamole (75 mg) twice daily and the oral anticoagulant acenocoumarol (sintrom). an international normalized ratio of 2.0 to 2.99 was assigned to group a and 3.0 to 4.5 to group b; both groups were subsequently analyzed for thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications. final evaluation included 51 and 48 patients, respectively. the follow-up was 626 months for group a (12.3 months/patient) and 486 months for group b (10.1 months/patient). the frequency of thromboembolism was equal in both groups: one transient ischemic attack in group a (a rate of 1.92/100 patient-years) and two transient ischemic attacks in group b (a rate of 4.94/100 patient-years). there was, however, a statistical difference in bleeding complications between the two groups (p less than 0.02). two patients bled in group a, a rate of 3.9% (3.8/100 patient-years), which represents an incidence of one episode each 25.6 years of treatment; 10 patients bled in group b, a rate of 20.8% (24.7/100 patient-years) representing an incidence of one episode each 4 years of treatment. we conclude that an international normalized ratio of 2 to 3 is safer than a ratio of 3 to 4.5 and confers good protection from thromboembolism when oral anticoagulant therapy is used conjointly with platelet function-inhibiting drugs in patients with mechanical substitute heart valves.
breast cancer during pregnancy and lactation. breast cancer is the most frequently seen cancer in pregnancy and lactation, but the incidence is low, the disease being seen in approximately 0.03% of pregnancies. only 1% to 2% of breast cancer overall is diagnosed during pregnancy or lactation. there is no evidence to implicate pregnancy or lactation in either the etiology or the progression of breast cancer. careful breast examination early in the pregnancy is very important to find solid masses that require biopsy before breast engorgement hides them. therapeutic options vary, depending on the stage of disease and the stage of the pregnancy. operable disease in the first 6 to 7 months of the pregnancy should be treated by mastectomy, as irradiation is contraindicated. late in the pregnancy, a lumpectomy and axillary dissection can be done, with irradiation being delayed until after delivery. general anesthesia is safe if the usual precautions are taken to compensate for the physiologic changes induced by pregnancy. unfortunately, delay in diagnosis is common, and 70% to 89% of patients with operable primary lesions have positive axillary lymph nodes. late stage appears to be the only reason for the generally worse prognosis in these patients, as stage for stage, they have a course similar to that of nonpregnant patients. adjuvant chemotherapy can be considered late in the pregnancy but should usually be delayed until after delivery. in patients with locally advanced or metastatic cancer diagnosed early in the pregnancy, for whom both chemotherapy and radiation therapy would normally be recommended, consideration must be given to termination of the pregnancy. there is no evidence that termination of pregnancy improves the outlook for the patients, but it does permit standard aggressive therapy in advanced disease.
intraoperative ultrasonography and the detection of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer. a total of 213 patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum were examined to detect liver metastases. the study compared preoperative ultrasonography and inspection and palpation of the liver during surgery with intraoperative ultrasonography. preoperative ultrasonography, inspection and palpation identified 238 metastases in 42 patients. intraoperative ultrasonography detected 116 previously unrecognized metastatic tumours during 40 surgical procedures (p less than 0.01). high resolution intraoperative ultrasonography is safe and more accurate than preoperative imaging and surgical exploratory methods. the examination is simple to perform and success appears to be related to careful attention to detail.
prolonged low dose indomethacin for persistent ductus arteriosus of prematurity. a total of 121 infants who required indomethacin for persistent ductus arteriosus in liverpool and cambridge over a four year period were randomised to receive either 0.1 mg/kg daily for six days or 0.2 mg/kg every 12 hours for three doses. the groups were of similar birth weight and gestational and postnatal age, though those treated with a low dose were by chance receiving a higher percentage of oxygen at the start of treatment and there were more deaths from bronchopulmonary dysplasia in this group. of 59 infants treated with the prolonged course 53 (90%) responded initially to indomethacin compared with 48 of 62 (77%) treated conventionally--a difference of 13% (95% confidence interval for the difference 0 to 26%). of the 53 responders 11 (21%) relapsed after low dose indomethacin, whereas after the shorter course 19 of 48 (40%) relapsed. this difference was significant (95% confidence intervals 3 to 37%). side effects, mainly gastrointestinal haemorrhage, were similar in both groups. significantly fewer infants experienced a rise in serum creatinine or urea concentration after treatment with low dose indomethacin. a prolonged low dose course of indomethacin offers advantages over conventional treatment.
preoperative selection for curable renovascular hypertension. clinical research has defined the criteria for identifying "curable" renovascular hypertension. the prediction is based on the measurement of plasma renin activity in peripheral veins, renal veins, and the aorta. renin profiles can be examined with the method of laragh and coworkers (the so-called incremental method), in which values for plasma renin activity are incorporated into formulas to compute indexed parameters. a score is attributed to each index and the prediction is based on the final score. because the identification of curable renovascular hypertension is made according to numerical rules, the method is easily transformed into a computer-assisted process. the program is written in basic, and it is short enough to run on a personal computer.
snoring and sleep architecture. the purpose of this study was to examine whether snoring adversely affects sleep architecture and sleep efficiency, and thus may account for the frequent complaints of daytime tiredness and fatigue expressed by heavy snorers. we recruited eight self-confessed heavy snorers and six self-confessed nonsnorers. all subjects had full nocturnal polysomnography, including continuous monitoring of snoring, which was quantified by counting the number of snores per hour of sleep (snoring index), the number of snores per minute of snoring time (snoring frequency), maximal and mean nocturnal sound intensity (dbmax and dbmean, respectively). we found that even the self-confessed nonsnorers snored lightly, with significantly smaller frequency and index than the heavy snorers. sleep architecture was similar in both groups. distribution of snoring among the sleep stages differed for light and heavy snorers: light snorers snored uniformly throughout all sleep stages, whereas heavy snorers tended to snore more during slow-wave and rem sleep. snoring frequency and snoring index were similar during all sleep stages in light snorers, but they were higher during slow-wave sleep in heavy snorers. wakefulness time after sleep onset and sleep efficiency correlated significantly with the snoring index. we conclude that although snoring does not affect sleep architecture in general, it influences sleep efficiency and wakefulness time after sleep onset; this may have an adverse effect on daytime function of heavy snorers.
deficient counterregulatory hormone responses during hypoglycemia in a patient with insulinoma. counterregulatory hormone responses were evaluated in a 37-yr-old woman before and after removal of a benign insulin-producing islet cell tumor. counterregulatory hormone concentrations were measured during a glucose clamp with graded reductions of plasma glucose from 5.2 to 2.6 mmol/l. in the study before surgery, the increase in plasma epinephrine concentration was markedly blunted (by greater than 90%) compared to that in the study after surgery. the peak plasma norepinephrine concentration was similarly reduced by 71%, and plasma cortisol by 63%. in addition, the glycemic thresholds for secretion of the counterregulatory hormones were lower before removal of the tumor. peak plasma gh responses were equivalent before and after surgery, but the threshold for gh secretion was 21% lower in the first hypoglycemia study. we conclude 1) that there is evidence for abnormal glucose counterregulatory hormone secretion in this patient, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypoglycemia seen in patients with insulinoma; 2) the reversal of reduced counterregulatory hormone secretion after tumor resection suggests that these defective hormonal responses may be related to recurrent hypoglycemia, persistent hyperinsulinemia, or both; and 3) that abnormal glucose counterregulation may exist in the absence of type 1 diabetes.
serial magnetic resonance imaging of hamstring anterior cruciate ligament autografts during the first year of implantation. a preliminary study. a prospective, observational study was performed to document the serial changes in the magnetic resonance signal of devascularized, hamstring acl autografts during the 1st year of implantation. twenty-one acl deficient knees (14 chronic, 7 acute) were reconstructed. instability developed in five knees within the first 6 months of graft implantation (24%). magnetic resonance examinations were performed at 1, 6, 12, 24, 36, and greater than 48 weeks postoperatively (repetition time 1500, echo delay time = 50). a total of 104 scans were reviewed (average, five per knee). the acl graft was divided into four unequal size zones for analysis. the proximal, middle, and distal thirds of the intraarticular portion of the graft and the portion of the graft within the tibial tunnel were independently analyzed. the magnetic resonance signal in each portion of the graft was graded on a scale with (i) being a normal signal, (ii) greater than 50% of the total volume of the graft having a normal signal, (iii) less than 50% of the graft having a normal signal, and (iv) 100% of the graft having an increased signal. the increased magnetic resonance signal of the acl graft was observed to be regionalized and confined to the distal two-thirds of the intraarticular portion of the graft. the portion of the graft exiting the femoral tunnel and within the tibial tunnel retained a normal magnetic resonance signal. the increases in magnetic resonance graft signal were time-dependent, became well established by 3 months, and remained unchanged at 1 year. the clinical outcome could not be predicted based on the magnetic resonance signal of the graft.
focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. twenty-four patients underwent biopsy or resection of the liver for focal nodular hyperplasia (fnh) at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center from 1978 to 1988. twenty-two of the patients were women. the mean age was 35 years. a history of antecedent oral contraceptive or conjugated estrogen (premarin) use was obtained in 18 of 21 women. there were two men, aged 26 and 37 years; neither gave a history of hormone use. most of the tumors were solitary (22 of 24) and located in the left lobe of the liver (17 of 22). fifteen of the patients had a prior or simultaneous malignant lesion and six had other benign tumors. most of the tumors were resected with a wedge or subsegment of liver (13 of 24). four patients underwent segmentectomy and five required lobectomy for removal of the tumors. two patients had an intraoperative biopsy only. the patients in whom the tumor was diagnosed preoperatively underwent computed tomography and arteriography routinely. scintigraphy of the liver with sulfur colloid was obtained in only three patients, despite its distinct potential for nonoperative diagnosis of fnh.
a topographical relationship between helicobacter pylori and gastritis: quantitative assessment of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa. a topographical relationship between the number of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa and the histological severity of gastritis was studied in 902 pairs of biopsy specimens taken from 314 patients. a pair of biopsies were taken from the antrum, the lesser curvature of the middle body, and the greater curvature of the upper body of the stomach. the quantitative assessment of h. pylori was made based on smear, culture, and tissue section. the histological severity of gastritis was assessed as to the degrees of mononuclear cell and polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. a positive correlation was confirmed between the number of h. pylori and the severity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. the degrees of inflammatory cells infiltration in the specimens with h. pylori colonization were significantly lower in the upper body than in the antrum.
primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands. sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare. this article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland (eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years; mean age, 42 years). the 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows: three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas, rhabdomyosarcomas, fibrosarcomas, and osteosarcomas. four patients experienced disease recurrences, and seven patients developed metastases. seven patients died of their sarcomas, with a mean survival time of 30 months. four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years (one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and neurosarcoma). prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm, type of sarcoma, and histologic grade. in this respect, salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts.
posthypoxic glucose supplement reduces hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in the neonatal rat. we evaluated the effect of posthypoxic glucose supplement in a neonatal hypoxic-ischemic animal model. seven-day-old rats underwent bilateral ligation of the carotid arteries, followed by exposure to an 8% oxygen atmosphere for 1 hour. the extent of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage was assessed histologically 72 hours later. glucose load immediately after the end of the hypoxic exposure reduced the volume of neocortical infarction to 37% of the unsupplemented value, and attenuated ischemic damage in the striatum and the dentate gyrus. at the end of the hypoxic exposure, the brain level of glucose was 0.3 mmol/kg and the level of lactate 9 mmol/kg. glucose supplement produced a rapid rise in brain glucose level to 3 to 5 mmol/kg over the next 2 hours. lactate in both brain and plasma gradually fell toward the baseline level during the first hour of recovery. posthypoxic glucose supplement slightly retarded lactate restitution. at any period of this neonatal model, brain lactate levels did not exceed the toxic level, which is postulated to be responsible for cerebral infarction in adult ischemic models. these results illustrate the important role of glucose in the development of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and the fact that full cortical infarction can develop even if brain lactate levels are low.
malignant thymoma presenting as intracardiac tumor and superior vena caval obstruction. a case of malignant thymoma with intracardiac infiltration and intrinsic superior vena caval obstruction due to the tumor is reported. intracardiac invasion by a thymoma is rare and for this reason is believed worthy of a report.
thrombolytic therapy for noncoronary diseases. thrombolytic therapy has been used fairly extensively in the management of acute proximal deep-vein thrombophlebitis of the extremities, acute pulmonary embolism, and acute peripheral arterial thrombosis and embolism in addition to acute thrombotic coronary events. in the presence of acceptable indications and a favorable benefit to risk ratio, this form of therapy, when successful, has served as a useful adjunct in the management of these disorders. in deep-vein thrombophlebitis, lysis of the thrombus before permanent pathological changes (eg, organization, scarring) have occurred can prevent venous valvular dysfunction and postural venous hypertension and its complications, especially the postphlebitic syndrome. in the more severe forms of acute pulmonary embolism, thrombolytic therapy, when applied early after symptom onset, decreases morbidity and is likely to prevent a chronic increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and persistent pulmonary hypertension. in peripheral arterial thrombo-occlusive events, early restoration of flow through thrombolysis has been shown to limit ischemic damage and serve as a useful supplement to angioplasty or surgery. thrombolytic therapy has been used less extensively in acute strokes. here the danger of reperfusion causing bleeding into a softened area of brain undergoing infarction has slowed its evaluation for this disorder; its application to stroke remains experimental.
nonpeptide angiotensin ii receptor antagonists. although the most direct way to interfere with the renin-angiotensin system (ras) is at the level of the angiotensin ii (aii) receptor, the currently available aii receptor antagonists are peptides still retaining significant agonistic properties with the obvious drawbacks of limited stability and lack of oral activity. we have characterized simple n-benzylimidazoles as weak, but selective aii receptor antagonists with a competitive mode of action. chemical modification of these early leads led to exp6155 and exp6803, which show approximately 10- and 100-fold higher affinity. oral activity was obtained for exp7711, and in particular for exp9654. this class of compounds displaces 3h-aii from its specific binding sites in various tissues. they competitively antagonize aii-induced responses in various in vitro and in vivo preparations, but do not influence aii-induced responses to kcl, norepinephrine, and vasopressin, nor do they affect converting enzyme or renin. in high renin models of elevated blood pressure, such as the renal hypertensive rat and sodium-depleted dog, these substances produce a sustained decrease in arterial pressure without changing heart rate after intravenous and oral (exp7711 and exp9654) administration. none of these compounds showed agonistic activity in any of the above test systems. in conclusion, the nonpeptide structures described herein are selective and competitive aii receptor antagonists and add another dimension to the arsenal of drugs manipulating the ras.
effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats. the purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrsp). treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril (45 mg/kg/day), an angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor, or with hydralazine (18 mg/kg/day). cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure (from 195 +/- 8 to 125 +/- 5 and 148 +/- 3 mm hg, respectively [mean +/- sem]; p less than 0.05). to examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles, we measured pressure (servonull), external diameter, and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall (histologically) in pial arterioles of normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky) rats and shrsp that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine. arterioles were maximally dilated with edta. in wky rats, cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure, external diameter, or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall. in shrsp, both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from wky rats (from 1,911 +/- 155 to 1,244 +/- 101 and 1,388 +/- 59 microns 2, respectively, compared with 1,405 +/- 95 microns 2 for untreated wky rats). cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure (from 110 +/- 6 to 62 +/- 2 mm hg with cilazapril versus 79 +/- 5 mm hg for hydralazine compared with 60 +/- 4 mm hg for untreated wky rats). cilazapril, but not hydralazine, attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles (from 91 +/- 4 to 100 +/- 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 +/- 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 +/- 3 microns for untreated wky rats).
tuberothalamic infarct after division of a hypoplastic posterior communicating artery for clipping of a basilar tip aneurysm: case report. the authors present a case of a tuberothalamic infarct subsequent to division of the posterior communicating artery for clipping of a high-lying aneurysm of the basilar bifurcation using the pterional approach. in view of this clinical observation and some particular aspects of the microsurgical anatomy of the perforating vessels of the posterior communicating artery, we conclude that interrupting this parent vessel carries a significant risk of infarction.
intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction. case report. a case of an intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction is reported in a 37-year-old man. the classification of these rare lesions is discussed.
regional differences in the intranodal distribution of tumor cells. the intranodal distribution of tumor cells was examined in 103 mesenteric and 135 axillary nodes to determine the frequency of a circumferential type of distribution and its relationship, if any, to central necrosis. eighteen percent of the mesenteric nodes removed at surgery from patients with colon cancer contained a circumferential rim of viable tumor cells in an area corresponding wholly or in part to the normal location of the marginal sinus. in each case this rim of tumor cells surrounded a large central area of necrosis. in contrast, only one of the 135 axillary nodes removed from patients with breast cancer demonstrated this pattern. these findings suggest that by interrupting blood and lymph vessels, the circumferential spread of tumor cells underlies development of central necrosis. previously described structural dissimilarities between mesenteric and axillary nodes may explain the striking difference in incidence of this pattern in these nodes.
intracoronary urokinase for intracoronary thrombus accumulation complicating percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in acute ischemic syndromes. intracoronary urokinase was used to treat flow-limiting intracoronary thrombus accumulation that complicated successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) during acute ischemic syndromes in 48 patients who were followed up through the acute phase of their illness. the study group comprised 10 patients with unstable angina pectoris, 18 patients with an evolving acute myocardial infarction, and 20 patients with postinfarction angina. the initial mean percent coronary diameter stenosis for the entire population was 95 +/- 7% and decreased with initial ptca to 41 +/- 20% (p less than 0.001), with improved corresponding coronary flow by thrombolysis in myocardial infarction trial (timi) grade. however, thrombus accumulation then resulted in a significant increase in percent diameter stenosis to 83 +/- 17% (p less than 0.001); a corresponding significant reduction in coronary flow also occurred by timi grade. after administration of intracoronary urokinase (mean dose, 141,000 units; range, 100,000-250,000 units during an average period of 34 minutes), with additional ptca, mean percent diameter stenosis significantly decreased to 34 +/- 17% (p less than 0.001); a correspondingly significant improvement in mean coronary flow by timi grade occurred to 2.9 +/- 0.2. overall, the angiographic success rate was 90%. there were no ischemic events requiring repeat ptca and no procedure-related myocardial infarctions or deaths before hospital discharge. one patient was referred for urgent coronary artery bypass graft surgery after a successful ptca. plasma fibrinogen levels were obtained in 15 patients, and in no patient was the level below normal for our laboratory.
tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesions of the head and neck. the term 'tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion' has been used to describe a fibrosclerosing disorder which has a locally destructive nature but is characterized by a benign histological appearance. we report five patients, over a five year period, with such a lesion. the clinical behaviour and surgical findings suggest the lesion to be an invasive malignancy. however, the histological appearance of an admixture of chronic inflammatory cells and fibrosis is consistent with a benign condition. we recommend surgical excision of the lesion as the mainstay of treatment; other studies report the use of steroids and radiotherapy.
emphysematous gastritis: case report and review. emphysematous gastritis is a condition involving gastric wall inflammation, radiologic or intraoperative evidence of intramural gas, and systemic toxicity. a recent case of emphysematous gastritis in a 57-year-old diabetic man is reported, and 27 cases published since 1889 are reviewed. predisposing factors include ingestion of corrosive substances (37%) and alcohol abuse (22%). diagnosis of emphysematous gastritis is based on the clinical presentation of an acute abdomen with systemic toxicity and on radiographs demonstrating gas bubbles within the stomach wall. for the case reported herein, computed tomography was useful both in establishing the diagnosis and in following the resolution of emphysematous gastritis. organisms most commonly involved were escherichia coli (six cases), streptococcus species (six cases), enterobacter species (five cases), and pseudomonas aeruginosa (three cases). the mortality was 61% (17 of 28 patients), and morbidity with gastric contractures occurred in 21% of cases (6 of 28). optimal therapy has not been defined; however, antimicrobial chemotherapy and surgery, when appropriate, may improve survival rates.
total gastrectomy for gastric cancer in the elderly. of 1070 patients with gastric cancers, 292 patients underwent total gastrectomy during 13 years. sixty patients were more than 70 years of age and 232 were under 69 years. the incidence of well-differentiated carcinomas and poorly differentiated carcinomas was the same in the elderly patients, whereas the latter was dominant in the young patients. however, there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding location, size, macroscopic patterns, extent of lymph metastases, or stage classification. the rates of preoperative surgical risk factors were significantly different between the two groups (p less than 0.01): 90.0% for the elderly and 34.9% for the young patients. however, the rates of postoperative morbidity and mortality were 31.7% and 3.3% for the elderly and 24.1% and 1.3% for the young patients, respectively, with no significant difference. the 5- and 10-year survival rates after curative total gastrectomy were 48.6% and 23.2% for the elderly compared with 49.4% and 33.6% for the young patients, respectively, with no significant difference. a 5-year survival rate after noncurative operation was 0% for the elderly and 6.4% for the young patients. these results indicate that, when performed for cure, total gastrectomy with systematic lymphadenectomy can provide good long-term results for elderly, as well as young, patients.
surgery for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. from july 1985 to july 1989, loma linda university medical center evaluated 46 thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (taaas). forty patients were taken to surgery--18 (45%) were operated on an emergency basis for reasons including rupture (12 patients, 30%), dissection (5 patients, 12.5%), and severe pain (1 patient). the overall mortality for all operated patients was five (12.5%-17% for emergency surgery versus 9% for elective surgery). nonfatal complications occurred in 40 per cent of patients (16). the overall incidence of paraplegia was 10 per cent (4/40), emergency patients 17 per cent (3/18) versus elective patients 4.5 per cent (1/22). careful preoperative evaluation, standardization of operative technique, and good postoperative management have improved the outlook for these patients who otherwise would progress to eventual rupture and death. because mortality and morbidity are substantially reduced in elective patients, we recommend that all patients with taaas be evaluated for surgery as soon as diagnosis is made.
carcinosarcoma and spindle cell carcinoma of the lung. clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical studies. we examined pulmonary carcinomas with prominent sarcoma-like lesions both clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically. grossly, two tumors had predominantly endobronchial growths, four bulky parenchymal growths, and two endobronchial, parenchymally mixed growths. in these eight patients, six tumors were completely resected, one patient was given irradiation only, and one patient died in the early postoperative period. on the basis of specific differentiation of the sarcoma-like lesions, the tumors were separated into three groups: two with "true" sarcoma differentiated into soft tissues such as striated muscle or osteoid tissue; three with a fibromatous sarcoma resembling atypical pseudosarcomatous stroma; and three with spindle cell carcinoma with evidence of epithelial differentiation. the prognosis was poor, and tumors with specific differentiation into rhabdomyosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, or spindle cell carcinoma progressed more rapidly than did those with a fibromatous sarcoma. because the fibromatous sarcoma-like lesions were found to relate to a longer survival time for the patients, we wish to emphasize that a distinction of sarcomatous components should be made with regard to assessing the prognosis of pulmonary carcinoma with sarcoma-like lesions.
abnormal cardiovascular reactivity in borderline and mild essential hypertension. cardiovascular and hemodynamic reactivity was evaluated with m-mode echocardiography, phonocardiography, and carotidography in correlation with circulating catecholamine levels in 25 normotensive subjects, 15 borderline hypertensive patients, and 42 mildly hypertensive patients during isometric exercise at 30% of the maximum force for 3 minutes. at rest, norepinephrine and epinephrine levels were significantly higher, and the cardiac index was similarly increased in both groups of hypertensive patients, but the cardiac mass index was significantly increased only in the mildly hypertensive group. during isometric exercise, the sympathoadrenal reactivity as well as the pressor and chronotropic responses were similar in normotensive subjects and both groups of hypertensive patients. however, the variations in blood pressure were achieved through totally different hemodynamic mechanisms in normotensive subjects and hypertensive patients. in normotensive subjects, the increase in blood pressure could be linked mainly to an increase in cardiac contractility and performance, whereas in either group of hypertensive patients, the increase in blood pressure was mainly associated with an increase in peripheral resistance. these observations are consistent with the hypothesis of a blunted beta-adrenergic reactivity and a predominance of alpha-adrenergic vascular reactivity in borderline and mildly hypertensive patients. this phenomenon, which appears to be unrelated to age or severity of hypertension, could be an important mechanism underlying the development of hypertension in humans.
changes of serum hepatitis b virus dna and aminotransferase levels during the course of chronic hepatitis b virus infection in children. during a follow-up period of 3.2 +/- 1.6 (1 to 8.6) yr, 1,087 serum specimens from 230 hbsag carrier children were tested for hepatitis b virus markers. dividing the serum specimens into four groups according to the status of hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna, the frequency of abnormally elevated alt levels in serum was in the following order: hbeag(+)/hepatitis b virus dna(-) serum (60%), hbeag(-)/hepatitis b virus dna(+) serum (53%), hbeag(+)/hepatitis b virus dna(+) serum (41%), hbeag(-)/hepatitis b virus dna(-) serum (11%). analysis of the data before hbeag clearance showed that both a high serum alt level and a low serum hepatitis b virus dna level correlated with an imminent clearance of hbeag. approximately two thirds of children with serum alt levels higher than 100 iu/l cleared hbeag within the following year. clearance of hbeag occurred within the following year in 65% (13 of 20) of cases with serum hepatitis b virus dna level less than or equal to 1,000 pg/ml, in contrast to 19% (30 of 157) of those with serum hepatitis b virus dna level greater than 1,000 pg/ml. among 53 children who lost hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna during follow-up, only nine cases did not have an identified period of abnormal serum alt levels. for the remaining 44 children, abnormal serum alt levels fell to normal with clearance of both hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna in 33 children but remained elevated in the remaining 11 cases after seroconversion.
cerebral glucose utilization during sleep in landau-kleffner syndrome: a pet study. three right-handed male children (aged 5, 6, and 11 years) with signs, symptoms and/or history of the syndrome of acquired aphasia-epilepsy (landau-kleffner syndrome) were studied during drug-induced, electroencephalographically (eeg)-monitored sleep by positron-emission tomography (pet) and the [18f]fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) method. our data demonstrate that in landau-kleffner syndrome, cerebral glucose utilization is not normal during sleep. the metabolic pattern varied between the children but the metabolic disturbances always predominated over the temporal lobes. they were right-sided, left-sided, or bilateral. in the two first patients, eeg recordings showed continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep and a right-greater-than-left asymmetry was observed in temporal areas. in patient 1, the asymmetry was associated with a relative increase of glucose utilization of the right posterior temporal region. in patient 2, the glucose utilization was relatively decreased in the left anterotemporal and left perisylvian regions. in patient 3, the sleep eeg showed no discharge and no significant asymmetry was observed; however, glucose utilization of both temporal lobes was decreased. lower metabolic rates in subcortical structures than in cortex were also noted in the three children. this metabolic pattern may be related to the maturation of the central nervous system (cns).
repeated intestinal ulcerations in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and high serum antiphospholipid antibody levels. we report the case of a patient with sle who had repeated ulceration of the small intestine requiring emergency surgery. pathologic examination revealed microthrombosis and vasculitis at the site of the intestinal ulcers. high levels of antiphospholipid antibodies, thrombocytopenia, and prolonged prothrombin time coincided with the episodes of intestinal ulceration. antiphospholipid antibodies may be involved in the development of thrombosis resulting in the repeated episodes of intestinal ulceration in this patient. this possibility should be considered in patients with sle who have intestinal ulceration and appropriate antithrombotic medication should be administered.
rheumatoid arthritis and comorbidity. data collected from 288 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) indicated that 54% of respondents also reported other chronic conditions, and that 20% rated at least one of these other conditions as severe. both the frequency and severity of these comorbidities affected scores on measures of depressive symptoms, social connectedness and on the arthritis impact measurement scales. these findings suggest that the absence of controls for comorbidity may bias measures of functional status among patients with ra.
frequency and clinical implications of monoclonal antibody detection of tumor-associated antigens in serum of patients with lung cancer. we previously showed that a panel of monoclonal antibodies (mab) (5e8, 5c7, and 1f10) that detect serum tumor-associated antigens (taa) could distinguish patients with lung cancer from those without to a highly significant degree. however, among patients with lung cancer, the frequency and clinical importance of serum taa expression were not established. therefore, we analyzed the serum and initial clinical characteristics of 52 philadelphia va patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer seen over a 13-month period. a modified semiquantitative elisa was employed to determine mab reactivity. our cohort was characterized by a mean age of 65 +/- 9 year (sd) and mean karnovsky score of 74 +/- 10; marked weight loss was present in 28 subjects, and 39 presented with either stage iii or iv disease. the panel detected taas in 38 of 52 cases (sensitivity 73%; 95% cl, 60-83%), including 13 of 22 squamous cell, 9 of 12 adenocarcinoma, 10 of 11 undifferentiated, and 6 of 7 small cell carcinomas. no significant differences were found between the reactive and nonreactive patients in terms of age, stage at presentation, histologic subtype, performance status, or weight loss. however, 1f10 and 5c7 were each associated with a greater risk of early death by cox proportional hazard analysis (p = 0.017 and 0.006, respectively) even when other prognostic variables are accounted for. we conclude that specific serum taa can be detected in the majority of lung cancer patients with all major histologic subtypes in a cohort with advanced tumors and poor prognostic indices.
differentiating cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease from nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy utilizing positron emission tomography. to determine if imaging of blood flow (using n-13 ammonia) and glucose metabolism (using f-18 2-deoxyglucose) with positron emission tomography can distinguish cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease from nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy, 21 patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction who were evaluated for cardiac transplantation were studied. the origin of left ventricular dysfunction had been previously determined by coronary angiography to be ischemic (11 patients) or nonischemic (10 patients). images were visually analyzed by three observers on a graded scale in seven left ventricular segments and revealed fewer defects in dilated cardiomyopathy compared with ischemic cardiomyopathy for n-13 ammonia (2.7 +/- 1.6 versus 5 +/- 0.6; p less than 0.03) and f-18 deoxyglucose (2.8 +/- 2.1 versus 4.6 +/- 1.1; p less than 0.03). an index incorporating extent and severity of defects revealed more homogeneity with fewer and less severe defects in subjects with nonischemic than in those with ischemic cardiomyopathy as assessed by imaging of flow (2.8 +/- 1.8 versus 9.2 +/- 3; p less than 0.001) and metabolism (3.8 +/- 3.3 versus 8.5 +/- 3.6; p less than 0.005). diagnostic accuracy for distinguishing the two subgroups by visual image analysis was 85%. using previously published circumferential count profile criteria, patients with dilated cardiomyopathy had fewer ischemic segments (0.4 +/- 0.8 versus 2.5 +/- 2 per patient; p less than 0.01) and infarcted segments (0.1 +/- 0.3 versus 2.4 +/- 1.4 per patient; p less than 0.001) than did patients with cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease. the sensitivity for differentiating the two clinical subgroups using circumferential profile analysis was 100% and the specificity 80%. an index incorporating both number and severity of defects derived from circumferential profile analysis was significantly lower in subjects with dilated cardiomyopathy than in ischemic cardiomyopathy (0.3 +/- 0.8 versus 2.7 +/- 2.4; p less than 0.005). thus, noninvasive positron emission tomographic imaging with n-13 ammonia and f-18 deoxyglucose is helpful in distinguishing patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction secondary to coronary artery disease from those with nonischemic cardiomyopathy, and a semiquantitative index such as circumferential profile analysis is superior to that of visual analysis alone.
penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery. penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery is uncommon. few surgeons have experience with this injury. a successfully managed case of penetrating innominate artery trauma is summarized and the literature reviewed.
serum keratan sulfate. quantitative and qualitative comparisons in inflammatory versus noninflammatory arthritides. the concentration of keratan sulfate (ks) epitope was measured in the serum of patients with osteoarthritis (oa) or rheumatoid arthritis (ra) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and compared with that in the serum of patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome (pfs) and of controls who had no joint disease. by student's tau-test, the mean serum ks concentrations in oa and ra patients measured with monoclonal antibodies (mab) 5-d-4 and 2-d-3 were significantly increased over those in the pfs and normal groups; similar findings were observed using a nonparametric test, except that levels in ra patients showed no difference from those in pfs patients and normal subjects. there was no significant correlation between joint scores or disease duration and ks levels in oa or ra patients. gel filtration of sera revealed mainly large, polydisperse ks-bearing fragments which eluted in a broad profile. ks purified from sera by immunoaffinity chromatography consisted mainly of high-density proteoglycans. electrophoresis of pooled high-density ks fractions in polyacrylamide-agarose gels followed by western blotting with mab 5-d-4 showed diffuse bands with relative mobilities corresponding to large proteoglycans. these findings are consistent with attachment of ks to protein core fragments of various sizes; ks in patient sera is comparable in size with that in normal sera. elevations of serum ks levels occur in the presence of cartilage degradation, but do not quantitatively define the extent or duration of articular involvement.
cocaine babies: the scourge of the '90s. six cases of cocaine-related deaths of infants have covered the spectrum of potentially devastating effects. they include an intrauterine death of a 35-week-old fetus following acute maternal cocaine abuse; anoxic encephalopathy at birth with 3 months' vegetative survival from a similar episode; traumatic compression asphyxia in a 4-month-old; infectious cardiomyopathy with heart failure in a twin at age 21 months following maternal cocaine abuse at birth; malnutrition and dehydration in a 7-week-old during continuing cocaine abuse by the parents; and a teenage sibling's cocaine lacing of a baby milk bottle ingested by his 6-week-old brother. all the cases had positive toxicological screening for cocaine or metabolites or both in the mother at delivery or in the infant at birth, or both. there were no instances of sudden infant death syndrome (sids, or "crib death"). pathologic and toxicologic, as well as birth, developmental, and social data are presented. an integrated medical, public health, law enforcement, and educational policy to prevent or at least ameliorate these tragic cases, now approaching epidemic proportions, has yet to be developed. a careful obstetrical history and examination of the mother, indication on the birth certificate of maternal drug abuse, and notification of health authorities (by birth certificate checking, among other ways) may send an early warning message to providers for intercession. active ingestion/injection and passive inhalation by older children and teenagers require more intensive monitoring and aggressive interaction by pediatricians, social workers, school authorities, and employers.
endoscopic ventricular fenestration using a "saline torch". the fiberoptic endoscope has never gained popularity among neurosurgeons although it is ideally suited for navigating within the cerebral ventricles. recent advances in optics and miniaturization make the application of endoscopy in neurosurgery more practical. the authors report eight children who underwent ventriculoscopic fenestration of symptomatic loculated cerebrospinal fluid (csf) collections. these csf collections were either isolated ventricular cysts or trapped lateral ventricles secondary to obstruction at the foramen of monro. cyst wall dissection was carried out with a "saline torch" dissector which was introduced through a working channel in the ventriculoscope. the torch was used to coagulate vessels and to sculpt large windows in cyst walls or in the septum pellucidum. ventriculoscope-guided cyst fenestration can be performed safely and easily under direct vision. the technique may permit simplification of shunt systems in some patients and elimination of shunts in others.
an epidemiologic study of abuse of analgesic drugs. effects of phenacetin and salicylate on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity (1968 to 1987) background. phenacetin abuse is known to produce kidney disease; salicylate use is supposed to prevent cardiovascular disease. we conducted a prospective, longitudinal epidemiologic study to examine the effects of these drugs on cause-specific mortality and on cardiovascular morbidity. methods. in 1968 we evaluated a study group of 623 healthy women 30 to 49 years old who had evidence of a regular intake of phenacetin, as measured by urinary excretion of its metabolites, and a matched control group of 621 women. salicylate excretion was also measured. all subjects were examined over a period of 20 years. results. life-table analyses of mortality during the 20 years, with adjustment for the year of birth, cigarette smoking, and length of follow-up, revealed significant differences between the groups in overall mortality (study group vs. control group, 74 vs. 27 deaths; relative risk, 2.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 3.3), deaths due to urologic or renal disease (relative risk, 16.1; 95 percent confidence interval, 3.9 to 66.1), deaths due to cancer (relative risk, 1.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.3), and deaths due to cardiovascular disease (relative risk, 2.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 5.5). the relative risk of cardiovascular disease (fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, heart failure, or stroke) was 1.8, and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.3 to 2.6. the odds ratio for the incidence of hypertension was 1.6, and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.2 to 2.1. the effects of phenacetin on morbidity and mortality, with adjustment for base-line salicylate excretion, were similar. in contrast, salicylate use had no effect on either mortality or morbidity. conclusions. regular use of analgesic drugs containing phenacetin is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and mortality and morbidity due to cardiovascular disease, as well as an increased risk of mortality due to cancer and urologic or renal disease. the use of salicylates carries no such risk.
retinal vasculitis--a primer. retinal vasculitis is a diagnosis that is generally suggested by an ophthalmologist. frequently patients with the disorder are referred to nonophthalmologists for further diagnostic evaluation or treatment. the criteria for defining vasculitis differ greatly between ophthalmologists and other physicians. to facilitate collaboration between ophthalmologists and their colleagues, we have sought to clarify the term "retinal vasculitis" by discussing its subcategories, the potential role of antiphospholipid antibodies, and the etiology of retinal vasculitis. we offer guidelines for evaluating the disorder and treating patients.
large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery. the performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (eptfe) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated. eptfe grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair. sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively. one hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted. the transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach. there was a one-month mortality of 2.8% in elective and 20% in emergency cases. median follow-up was 26 months. specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula. no graft rupture, degeneration, dilatation, pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up. the aortic eptfe prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied.
primary leptomeningeal lymphoma: report of 9 cases, diagnosis with immunocytochemical analysis, and review of the literature. we describe 9 patients who presented with a neoplastic meningitis of lymphomatous origin. no evidence of parenchymal central nervous system or systemic tumor was identified either at the time of presentation or throughout the course of their disease. we have chosen to call this entity "primary leptomeningeal lymphoma" (plml). this unusual form of neurologic lymphoma must be differentiated from the more common clinical situations of primary parenchymal lymphoma with meningeal involvement and systemic lymphoma complicated by lymphomatous meningitis.
the influence of age vs peak serum concentration on life-threatening events after chronic theophylline intoxication. to identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic, unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication (serum theophylline concentration, greater than or equal to 167 mumol/l after protracted use). the median age of the sample was 47.5 years (range, 4 days to 91 years). median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/l, with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/l. a life-threatening event (lte) occurred in 28 patients (39%) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22. the median peak (theophylline) of patients who had an lte vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/l. however, the median age of patients with an lte compared with those without an lte was significantly greater (70.5 vs 18.0 years). stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of lte with advancing years: patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of lte than patients less than 25 years old (95% confidence interval, 3.56, 77.5) despite comparable intergroup median serum (theophylline). these data suggest the primary determinant of ltes after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age. elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of lte than younger patients. peak serum theophylline concentration cannot predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an lte. finally, these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients.
comparison of a 3- and 6-mm incision in combined phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy. we studied 216 eyes of 160 patients who underwent combined phacoemulsification and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation with trabeculectomy. the mean follow-up was 18.7 months, with a minimum follow-up of six months. to assess the safety and efficacy of a recently developed 3-mm incision procedure with foldable intraocular lens implantation (phacotrabeculectomy), we compared 104 eyes subjected to this procedure with 112 eyes subjected to a 6-mm procedure at different follow-up periods. intraocular pressure control (less than 21 mm hg) was attained in 44 of 46 eyes (96%) in the 3-mm group and 71 of 76 eyes (93%) in the 6-mm group at one year postoperatively. visual acuity of 20/40 or better was attained in 40 of 46 eyes (87%) in the 3-mm group and 66 of 76 eyes (87%) in the 6-mm group. the incidence of postoperative complication was significantly lower (p less than .001) and visual acuity in the early postoperative period was significantly better (p less than .01) in the 3-mm incision group than in the comparison group.
neurogenic control of the cerebral circulation during global ischemia. the influence of the trigeminal nerve on the cerebral circulation was investigated in chronically denervated cats during and after reversible four-vessel occlusion for 10 minutes combined with controlled hypotension (50 mm hg). postocclusive hyperemia 30 minutes after reperfusion was attenuated by up to 48% in cortical gray matter of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral artery territories on the side of trigeminal ganglionectomy. similar results were observed for denervation accomplished by direct surgical ablation and by the topical application of capsaicin to a cortical branch of the middle cerebral artery. denervation did not alter basal cerebral blood flow or the duration of hyperemia, nor did it impair the cerebrovascular response to hypercapnia. these data demonstrate the importance of neurogenic mechanisms in the development of postischemic hyperperfusion and suggest that strategies directed at blocking axon reflex-like mechanisms may be beneficial in reducing the morbidity that follows severe cortical hyperemia.
lower extremity revascularization via the lateral plantar artery. lower extremity bypass grafts to the tibial and crural arteries are commonly employed to treat patients with atherosclerotic limb-threatening ischemia. although occasional series have mentioned bypasses to a plantar artery, few of these specifically examine the results of arterial reconstructions using these vessels. six patients underwent femoral to lateral plantar artery (lpa) bypass within a 19-month period for gangrene of the forefoot. there was one early graft failure and in the five completely autogenous reconstructions, graft patency and limb salvage had been achieved during a follow-up ranging from three to 22 months. the lpa is an acceptable site for anastomosis of lower extremity bypass grafts and the early results presented herein support its more liberal use when proximal sites are unavailable.
a histopathologic study of spinal cord ischemia using an isohistogenic rat upper-half-body transplantation model. to study the histopathologic changes of spinal cords exposed to long-duration complete ischemia, the authors developed an upper-half-body transplantation model of inbred rat. in this model, an infant lewis rat is transplanted to the inguinal region of another adult lewis rat using microsurgical vascular anastomosis. even when 2-week-old donor rats were exposed to complete ischemia for 90 minutes, functions of the spinal cord were comparatively preserved. in histopathologic observations, degeneration proportional to complete ischemia duration was noted. in the 60-minute ischemia group of 2-week-old donor rats, however, no substantial differences from normal spinal cord were observed. under conditions of equal ischemia duration, it appeared the younger animal had the greater ischemic tolerance.
effect of abrupt mitral regurgitation after balloon valvuloplasty on myocardial load and performance. the concept that mitral regurgitation masks myocardial dysfunction by reducing afterload and augmenting ejection performance has not been well established in humans. the effect of abruptly produced mitral regurgitation on left ventricular loading and performance was therefore evaluated in five patients who developed this complication after an otherwise successful percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty. mitral valve area by gorlin formula calculated with forward flow increased from 0.92 +/- 0.14 to 2.75 +/- 0.82 cm2. mean left atrial pressure did not decrease (19 +/- 4 to 19 +/- 6 mm hg). the size of the left atrial v wave relative to mean left atrial pressure (peak v - mean left atrial pressure) increased from 7 +/- 4 to 19 +/- 6 mm hg. angiographic mitral regurgitation increased from 0+ or 1+ to greater than 3+ in each patient and regurgitant fraction increased from 0.23 +/- 0.11 to 0.55 +/- 0.09 (p less than 0.01). end-diastolic volume increased modestly from 148 +/- 15 to 159 +/- 15 ml (p = ns). heart rate increased from 54 +/- 5 to 71 +/- 8 beats/min (p less than 0.05), which may have prevented further increases in preload by shortening the filling period. end-systolic stress decreased by 32% from 277 +/- 34 to 188 +/- 52 kdyn/cm2 (p less than 0.01) as a result of a 25% decrease in end-systolic pressure from 121 +/- 8 to 91 +/- 7 mm hg and a 16% decrease in end-systolic volume from 67 +/- 13 to 56 +/- 8 ml (p = ns).
gallbladder carcinoma producing human chorionic gonadotropin. a primary carcinoma of the gallbladder producing human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) was encountered in an 83-yr-old japanese woman, with elevation of hcg/beta-hcg in urine and serum. remarkable elevation of serum estradiol was an associated finding, with increased hcg. at autopsy, we found that the primary carcinoma of the gallbladder extensively involved the liver. histologically, the tumor revealed adenosquamous cell carcinoma in the primary site, and moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in metastatic foci. immunohistochemical staining for beta-hcg showed a positive reaction in adenocarcinoma components. this is an extremely rare case of an hcg-producing gallbladder carcinoma, which leads us to speculate that hcg-positive tumor cells may occur due to dedifferentiation.
a randomized trial comparing direct current therapy and bipolar diathermy in the outpatient treatment of third-degree hemorrhoids. fifty patients with third-degree hemorrhoids were randomized to receive outpatient treatment with either bipolar diathermy or direct current therapy. direct current therapy was used to treat 26 patients and bipolar diathermy was used to treat 24 patients. twenty patients in each group were successfully treated as judged by resolution of symptoms and shrinkage of hemorrhoidal tissue. both treatments are effective in the outpatient management of large, prolapsing hemorrhoids. bipolar diathermy is less time consuming and better tolerated.
interventional radiology of the biliary tract. metallic stents. biliary metallic stents were placed in 18 patients with bile duct obstruction. six patients received gianturco stents and 14 wall-stents. results of these tests are discussed.
treating systemic fungal infections in aids patients. prolonging life against the odds. fungal infections have become one of the major causes of death among immunocompromised patients, particularly patients with aids. accurate and quick diagnosis is difficult; therefore, empirical therapy is often necessary. this scenario is complicated by the fact that most antifungal agents are toxic at the doses used or relatively ineffective against deep-seated mycoses. because the population of aids patients is increasing, physicians will be faced more often with the management of systemic fungal infections. despite the current bleak prognosis for these patients, several new antigen detection tests are being developed and triazole agents are proving to be effective and less toxic than their predecessors. many cases of systemic mycoses do result in mortality, but appropriate treatment can both prolong life and improve its quality.
adenocarcinoma of the colon occurring with intussusception in an adolescent. hydrostatic reduction of intussusception is definitive therapy in most infants with this abnormality. in the older child, adolescent, and adult, a polyp or tumor is often present. operative intervention should be considered earlier in the clinical course both to relieve the intussusception and to define the nature of the lead point.
rhegmatogenous retinal detachments in patients with aids and necrotizing retinal infections. rhegmatogenous retinal detachments can occur in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) and necrotizing retinal infections. of 68 patients with aids and necrotizing retinal infections seen between 1983 and 1987, rhegmatogenous retinal detachments developed in 16 patients (27 eyes). in this group, cytomegalovirus retinopathy was present in 75% (12 of 16) of patients, 18.8% (3 of 16) had probable herpes simplex virus retinopathy, and 6.2% (1 of 16) had toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis. retinal detachment was bilateral in 68.8% (11 of 16) of patients. the retina was reattached successfully in 91% (10 of 11) of operated eyes. proliferative vitreoretinopathy was present preoperatively in 95% of these eyes. seven of 11 operated eyes had initial improvement in visual acuity. however, 5 of 11 continued to lose vision despite successful reattachment. techniques included pneumatic reattachment, scleral buckle, vitrectomy, and silicone oil injection. complicated retinal detachments in aids patients with rhegmatogenous retinal detachments and necrotizing retinal infections are common and can be repaired, but the prognosis is guarded in many patients.
determination of hepatitis b virus dna in serum using the polymerase chain reaction: clinical significance and correlation with serological and biochemical markers. sera from 98 patients with various stages of chronic hepatitis b virus infection were studied to determine the clinical significance of hepatitis b virus dna in serum detected by the polymerase chain reaction. patients were divided into three groups according to their hbsag and hbeag status. group i (n = 31) had detectable hbsag and hbeag, group ii (n = 46) had hbsag but not hbeag and group iii (n = 21) consisted of patients who were once chronic hepatitis b virus carriers but had lost hbsag during follow-up. group i patients usually had significant liver disease (raised serum aminotransferases), had higher titers of hbsag and had been infected with hepatitis b virus for a shorter period than patients in the other two groups. all patients in group i had hepatitis b virus dna detectable by polymerase chain reaction and 94% had sufficient hepatitis b virus dna present for detection by dot-blot hybridization. group ii patients had lower mean serum aminotransferase activities and titers of hbsag than those in group i. serum hepatitis b virus dna was detectable by polymerase chain reaction in 78% but in only 30% of group ii patients by dot-blot hybridization. group ii patients who did not have hepatitis b virus dna detectable by polymerase chain reaction had mean serum aminotransferase levels within the normal range and had a younger mean age than those with hepatitis b virus dna. group iii patients generally had no evidence of active liver disease.
reducing unnecessary coronary care unit admissions: a comparison of three decision aids objective: to determine whether published decision rules for ischemic heart disease have practical value in reducing unnecessary admissions to coronary care units. design: prospective cohort study. setting: a community hospital emergency room. patients: 235 consecutive patients presenting to an emergency room with a chief complaint of chest pain. measurements: clinical information, including observations needed to use previously published decision aids, was collected on special forms at the time of the emergency room visit. follow-up information was obtained from the medical records of patients who were admitted and by telephone interviews with patients who were discharged. the authors compared the residents' actual decisions with the predictions of the decision aids regarding their ability to predict complications (that is, to identify patients who needed admission or intensive care). main results and conclusions: none of the decision aids could reduce unnecessary admissions without seriously increasing the rate of inappropriate discharges. however, within the clinically relevant subgroup of patients for whom the decision to admit or discharge was not obvious on clinical grounds (those without complications on presentation whom the residents chose not to discharge), the decision aids examined, used in combination to verify the need for admission, might have safely averted some unnecessary admissions.
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention. retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant. we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability. at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated. the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed. the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized.
non-drug related asystole associated with anaesthetic induction. a patient is presented where routine venepuncture associated with anaesthetic induction resulted in bradycardia and asystole. the case highlights the need for special caution with, and ecg monitoring throughout induction for, patients with a history of syncope. it also demonstrates the need for caution when attributing cardiovascular events during induction to the effect of the induction agents used.
colonic lipoma as a source of massive hemorrhage. report of a case. colonic lipomas are a rare source of massive lower gastrointestinal bleeding requiring operative intervention. a case of massive hemorrhage from cecal lipomatosis is presented. the methods of preoperative diagnosis and treatment are discussed.
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the patient with cancer. the records of 114 cancer patients suffering cardiopulmonary arrests (cpa) during a 3-year period at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center (mskcc) were retrospectively reviewed to identify variables predicting final outcome in these patients. although 65.7% of the patients were successfully resuscitated, only 12 (10.5%) were discharged alive from the hospital. median survival after discharge was 150 days. by univariate and multivariate analysis, the only variable predicting the likelihood of a patient's being discharged alive after a cpa was the performance status of the patient at the time of admission to the hospital. thus, a patient spending more than 50% of the time in bed at the time of admission had only a 2.3% chance of being discharged alive after cpa. a thorough discussion of these findings between physicians and patients and their families is strongly recommended at the time of admission to spare cancer patients unnecessary invasive resuscitative procedures.
serological arguments for classifying raynaud's phenomenon as idiopathic. twenty-five patients with idiopathic raynaud's phenomenon were followed prospectively for a mean period of 48 months. clinical and laboratory assessments were performed on admission and on followup. the sera were analyzed for the presence of autoantibodies (antinuclear, antiskeleton and antiorganelle antibodies). sixteen patients were antinuclear antibody positive and 2 anticentromere antibody positive. eight patients produced antivimentin, 5 antimitochondrial, 4 anti-golgi complex, and 3 anticentriol antibodies. eleven patients produced antidesmosome antibodies. only one patient (anti-rnp and antidesmosome antibody positive) developed a systemic disease (mixed connective tissue disease) during followup. the initial screening of sera may help to classify raynaud's phenomenon as idiopathic more accurately.
jejunal-rectal fistula as a complication of postoperative radiotherapy. we present the case of a patient with an unusual, complex enteric fistula with multiple tracts and associated abscesses. the fistula was a late complication of radiotherapy, administered three years earlier, after resection for carcinoma of the sigmoid colon. most of the small bowel was involved in the radiation-induced disease. a wide resection was performed successfully. this report reviews current literature on intra-abdominal postradiotherapy injuries, particularly intestinal fistulae.
recurrent prolonged erections and priapism as a sequela of priapism: pathophysiology and management. veno-occlusive priapism may be associated with prolonged corporeal ischemia, subsequent fibrosis of the corpora and impotence. we report on 6 patients who presented with an unusual sequela of veno-occlusive priapism, recurrent episodes of prolonged erections or priapism. in all cases the subsequent episodes were idiopathic and veno-occlusive, occurred with a frequency ranging from several times per day to once per month and were symptomatically disabling. pharmacocavernosometry ruled out mechanical occlusion of corporeal venous drainage by demonstrating elevated flows to maintain intracavernosal pressures following smooth muscle contraction and markedly decreased flow rates following smooth muscle relaxation. treatment of the recurrent episodes with intracavernous self-injection of phenylephrine resulted in successful detumescence. the use of oral phenylpropanolamine reduced the frequency and duration of the recurrences, and markedly reduced the need for adrenergic self-injection. it is proposed that this syndrome may develop secondary to the initial ischemic episode, resulting in a functional alteration of the adrenergic and/or endothelial-mediated mechanisms that control penile tumescence and maintain penile flaccidity.
clinical and pathological findings in prostates following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin instillations. the prostates of 36 patients who were treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin were evaluated by digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasonography. when abnormal palpatory and/or ultrasonographic findings were detected, core needle biopsies from the suspicious areas were performed. of the 36 patients 20 underwent biopsies of the prostate. pathological findings revealed typical granulomas in 8 patients (3 caseating and 5 noncaseating multifocal granulomas). nonspecific chronic prostatitis was noted in 4 patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia was noted in 8. the number of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ranged from 6 to 19. the interval from initiation of therapy to biopsy ranged from 1.5 to 14.5 months. caseating granulomas were found during the early course of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations (1.5 to 3.0 months), whereas noncaseating granulomas were detected at later stages (4 to 14.5 months). these findings present a high incidence of granuloma formation in patients treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin. the duration of therapy is a determinant factor in the induction of granuloma type.
reflux nephropathy and primary vesicoureteric reflux in adults we have studied the clinical features and course of adults with reflex nephropathy and/or primary vesicoureteric reflux, paying particular attention to the differences between males and females, and the presenting features that influence prognosis. in our series of 293 patients, females outnumbered males in the ratio 5:1 and most presented with urinary infection, whereas males most commonly presented with features of renal damage such as proteinuria, hypertension or renal failure. males more commonly had bilateral scarring and persistent reflux. one hundred and forty-seven patients were followed for two years or more (range 2-19 years); deterioration in renal function occurred in 55 (37 per cent). risk factors for a rise in plasma creatinine were, in descending order, the presence of proteinuria, an elevated plasma creatinine concentration, bilateral scarring, male sex and the presence of hypertension. stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that the independent risk factors were proteinuria, elevated plasma creatinine concentration and hypertension; gender and the presence of persistent reflux had no independent influence on the course of renal failure.
novacor left ventricular assist filling and ejection in the presence of device complications. in order to better understand the relationship among certain device related complications and novacor left ventricular assist system (lvas) pumping parameters, a mock circulatory loop was utilized to simulate the following clinically realistic conditions: 1) inflow valve regurgitation, 2) inflow cannula obstruction, 3) outflow valve regurgitation, and 4) outflow cannula obstruction. various pumping parameters (e.g., pump rate, stroke volume, pump output) were recorded at baseline (control) and during each simulation. additionally, pump volumes were continuously recorded and differentiated for calculation of rates of pump filling (fr) and ejection (er). the results indicate that perfusion pressures and rates of filling and ejection change significantly in the presence of device complications. the implications of these findings, as relates to assessment of pump operation in lvas patients, are discussed.
scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass. we report the ct, mri, and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass. even though bone destruction was better shown with ct, the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with mri. the arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery.
gallbladder wall thickening (congestive cholecystopathy) in chronic liver disease: a sign of portal hypertension. a thickened gallbladder wall is often seen with ultrasound in alcoholic cirrhosis. hypoalbuminaemia is thought to be the cause since there is a strong association between bowel wall thickening and low serum albumin. to determine the role of portal hypertension in producing gallbladder wall thickening we studied 40 consecutive stable patients-37 with cirrhosis and three with portal hypertension due to primary biliary cirrhosis. ultrasound assessment of the gallbladder wall was made after an overnight fast using a technicare autosector. wall thickness 4 mm or greater was considered abnormal. twenty-seven patients had a thickened gallbladder wall and all had evidence of portal hypertension. hypoalbuminaemia was not an important factor since it was only present in six cases with thickened walls. in two cases reduction in portal pressure with oral propranolol was associated with a decrease in gallbladder wall thickness. these results suggest that portal hypertension, not hypoalbuminaemia, is the dominant factor causing gallbladder wall thickening in cirrhosis. ultrasound demonstration of gallbladder wall thickening in chronic liver disease should suggest the presence of portal hypertension.
posttraumatic cortical blindness: are we missing the diagnosis in children? a potential etiology of anxiety and agitation in the posthead trauma patient is cortical blindness. cortical blindness can be seen after both mild and severe head trauma. early recognition and understanding of this syndrome can lead to a decreased anxiety level, not only for the patient, but for the parents as well. two cases of posttraumatic cortical blindness are presented. the signs and symptoms of cortical blindness, its presentation, diagnosis, and outcome are discussed. the available literature is reviewed and discussed.
renal function after tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney. whether extensive ablation of renal mass in humans leads to progressive glomerulosclerosis, proteinuria, and hypertension, as it does in animal models, is a matter of controversy. we have studied kidney function in six patients who underwent enucleation of a renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney. four patients had previously had a nephrectomy. the two others each had one atrophic, nonfunctioning kidney. serum creatinine levels before surgery were within the normal range (mean, 99.9 mumol/l [1.13 mg/dl]). two weeks after tumor enucleation, creatinine levels were significantly higher than the preoperative values (mean, 124.6 mumol/l [1.41 mg/dl]). the follow-up period varied from 10 to 23 months. in all patients, kidney function improved during the following months. serum creatinine levels nearly reached preoperative values in all patients (mean, 105.2 mumol/l [1.19 mg/dl]). none of the patients showed a progressive deterioration in renal function or proteinuria. we found a modest increase in blood pressure in two patients who had been normotensive before surgery. in conclusion, tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney did not cause significant renal injury to the remnant kidneys in our patients, at least in the short term.
undetected fatal acute pancreatitis: why is the disease so frequently overlooked? an analysis of postmortem investigations between 1980 and 1985 revealed 43 patients with acute pancreatitis. in 13 (30.2%) of them, the diagnosis was first established at autopsy. in eight of the latter patients, the diagnosis could have been present on admission. the etiology was alcoholism in three patients, hypothermia in one, biliary tract disease in one, and unknown in three patients. in five patients, acute pancreatitis developed after gastric, pancreatic, or biliary tract surgery. abdominal pain was present in only one patient. amylase levels had been estimated in 11 patients, but the level was in the diagnostic range (greater than or equal to 3 times of upper normal level) in only four. consequently, ultrasound examination was performed in only two of the latter four patients, but failed to show the pancreas because of intestinal gas. to diagnose acute pancreatitis at an earlier stage and to improve therapy and prognosis, we recommend that serum amylase levels be measured and ultrasound examination be performed. if the results are inconclusive, this should be followed by computed tomography for all abdominal emergency cases and for patients who have undergone cardiopulmonary or upper abdominal surgery, especially when the patients deteriorate or fail to improve postoperatively.
is gastric acid responsible for the pain in patients with essential dyspepsia? the pathogenesis of symptoms in patients with essential dyspepsia is not known. since treatment with h2-receptor antagonists has provided symptomatic relief in some reports, we carried out the present study to investigate whether gastric acid is responsible for symptoms in these patients. fifty patients with essential dyspepsia and 25 healthy control subjects were studied. after an overnight fast, a nasogastric tube was passed and its tip positioned in the antrum under fluoroscopic control. normal saline or 0.1 m hydrochloric acid was infused in a randomized, double-blind fashion. eleven (22%) patients developed pain with acid infusion, but none with normal saline (p less than 0.005). in 10 of these 11 patients, pain recurred on rechallenge with acid infusion but was promptly relieved with infusion of 1 m sodium bicarbonate. none of the healthy controls developed pain on infusion of acid or saline. these observations suggest that acid has a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptoms in some patients with essential dyspepsia, although other factors may also be important.
epidermoid cysts of the brain stem. report of three cases. the authors report the cases of three patients with epidermoid cysts which insinuated themselves into the brain stem. in all three patients, the tumor occupied the pons, although in one it was predominantly located in the medulla. the cyst contents and nonadherent tumor capsule were removed in all three patients, but no attempt was made to remove tumor densely adherent to the brain stem. one patient's cyst was removed in one operation, but maximal resection in the other two required two operations. after surgery, sixth nerve function completely returned in one patient; another patient had a stable pontine gaze palsy but developed new facial weakness; and the third patient had stable cranial nerve deficits with a diminished hemiparesis. the last patient developed a pseudomeningocele and communicating hydrocephalus, and required a lumboperitoneal shunt. in all three patients, computerized tomography scans demonstrated hypodense tumors not enhanced by contrast material. magnetic resonance imaging was performed on two patients; in both, the tumors showed increased signal intensity relative to brain on t1-weighted images and decreased signal intensity relative to brain on t2-weighted studies. magnetic resonance imaging, the most accurate modality for localizing these lesions and determining their extent, was also invaluable for postoperative monitoring and follow-up evaluation. safe and adequate resection includes decompression of cyst contents and removal of nonadherent portions of the cyst capsule. cyst wall adherent to the brain stem, however, should not be removed.
developments in 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor pharmacology in migraine. because a satisfactory animal model for migraine does not exist, attempts to determine a common mechanism of action for effective antimigraine agents may be of benefit in elucidating the pathogenesis of this neurologic syndrome. the present review demonstrates that the clinical data that has developed over the past 30 years may allow for the elucidation of the role of specific 5-ht receptor subtypes in the pathophysiology of migraine. a large number of both acute and prophylactic antimigraine agents share an ability to interact with 5-ht receptor subtypes in human brain. as summarized in table 3, acute antimigraine drugs (e.g., ergots, sumatriptan) share high affinity for 5-htid receptors and somewhat lower affinity for 5-ht1a receptors. these receptors are present in certain intracranial blood vessels. 5-ht1d receptors are also located on nerve terminals where they act to inhibit the release of 5-ht and other neurotransmitters. theoretically, 5-htid receptor agonists may acutely inhibit the release of vasoactive or pain-inducing substances in the perivascular space. conceivably, drugs acting at this receptor would stop the progression of this perivascular process. in addition, a number of prophylactic antimigraine drugs display a relatively high affinity for both 5-ht2 and 5-ht1c receptors in human brain. although these receptors are also found in certain blood vessels, they are present throughout the nervous system. the receptors appear to mediate neuronal depolarizations at the cellular level. moreover, the 5-ht2 receptor appears to play a key role in the development of inflammation in certain smooth muscle systems. theoretically, the ability of 5-ht2 antagonists to protect perivascular inflammation may account for their efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. these data offer a novel approach to the analysis of antimigraine agents. drugs could be selected for use in clinical migraine studies based on their selectivity for a specific 5-ht receptor subtype. for example, an agent that displays both high affinity and selectivity for 5-ht1d receptors could be clinically evaluated. its effectiveness, or lack thereof, would indicate the importance of this specific 5-ht receptor site in the pathogenesis of migraine. future attempts to determine a common mechanism of action for effective antimigraine agents should facilitate the elucidation of the pathogenesis of this neurologic syndrome.
germfree animals and technics in surgical research. germfree animals have been reared to a size, weight, and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems. germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations, indicating that life, reproduction, and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination. the value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems, shock, cancer, immunology, burns, wound healing, and in direct patient application. patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection, for operative procedures, for treatment of extensive burns, and for management of immune-suppressed individuals. we conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications.
frequency of low-grade residual coronary stenosis after thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction. the clinical, angiographic and demographic characteristics of 42 patients with low-grade (less than 50%) residual stenosis at the infarct lesion after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction (mi) were assessed. the study group (group i) represented 21% of 198 consecutive patients receiving thrombolytic therapy over a 59-month period. data on the 156 remaining patients were pooled for comparison (group ii). group i patients were predominantly men (86%) who were cigarette smokers (81%). group ii patients were predominantly men (75%, p greater than 0.10) but were significantly older (52 +/- 12 vs 56 +/- 10 years, p = 0.02). prior acute mi or angina was unusual in group i. sixty percent had no significant (greater than 50%) residual coronary artery disease while 25% had residual single artery disease. average significant (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) residual vessel disease was 0.6 +/- 1.0 for group i and 1.9 +/- 0.9 for group ii (p less than 0.001). in group i, average residual infarct lesion diameter stenosis was 36 +/- 7% in the right anterior oblique and 34 +/- 8% in the left anterior oblique views. thirty-nine group i patients were discharged with medical therapy and 100% follow-up was obtained over a mean interval of 18 +/- 17 months. fifteen patients experienced chest pain after acute mi accounting for 17 discrete events. fifty-nine percent of group i had a benign course on follow-up. eight events were classified as unstable angina, 4 as acute mi and 5 as atypical angina. documented coronary vasospasm occurred in 3.
cancer mortality in a higher-income black population in new york state. comparison with rates in the united states as a whole. in the 1980 census the median family income among blacks in suffolk county, new york (i.e., $19,604) was much higher than that for american blacks as a whole (i.e., $12,618) and 94.1% of that for american whites (i.e., $20,840), but the proportion below the poverty level was still higher for suffolk county blacks than for american whites. observed numbers of deaths from 1979 to 1985 for total cancers and most cancer sites in suffolk county black men and women were not lower than expected on the basis of age-specific and gender-specific death rates for blacks in the us. although numbers of deaths from cervical cancer and prostate cancer were slightly lower than expected in suffolk county blacks versus american blacks, these numbers were still significantly greater than expected on the basis of death rates among american whites. age-specific death rates for age groups 25 to 44 years to 55 to 64 years tended to be lower in suffolk county for lung cancers in black men but not for breast cancer in black women. specific cancer sites, which differ in the direction of the association between incidence and socioeconomic status, age, and gender must be considered in comparisons of cancer mortality by race and socioeconomic level. implications of the comparisons were discussed with regard to the goal of reducing racial differences in cancer death rates.
dietary taurine deficiency and dilated cardiomyopathy in the fox. taurine deficiency has been implicated as a potential cause of dilated cardiomyopathy. however, the relationship between taurine and myocardial function is presently unclear. the purpose of this study was to determine whether dilated cardiomyopathy in the fox is associated with dietary taurine deficiency. a total of 68 foxes from farms with a history of death caused by dilated cardiomyopathy and 14 foxes from a farm with no history of dilated cardiomyopathy were studied. dilated cardiomyopathy was diagnosed by echocardiography in 48% of the foxes from one farm with a positive history and in none of the foxes from the control farm. foxes less than 9 months of age were more commonly affected than older foxes (p = 0.03). plasma taurine concentrations were significantly less (p less than 0.01) in foxes that had dilated cardiomyopathy (26.8 +/- 16.4 nmol/ml) than in the control foxes (99.3 +/- 60.2 nmol/ml). a significantly higher (p less than 0.01) incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy was present in foxes with a history of a sibling or offspring that died of dilated cardiomyopathy than in foxes without a family history of cardiac death. in one fox with dilated cardiomyopathy that was tested, the myocardial taurine concentration was lower (1.7 mumol/gm wet weight) than that of control foxes (7.3 +/- 1.6 mumol/gm wet weight). hepatic cysteinesulfinic acid decarboxylase activity was significantly less (p less than 0.001) in foxes with dilated cardiomyopathy (0.97 +/- 0.2 nmol/mm.mg protein) than in control foxes (2.11 +/- 0.07 nmol co2/mm.mg protein).
some endorphin derivatives and hydrocortisone prevent eeg limbic seizures induced by corticotropin-releasing factor in rabbits. corticotropin-releasing factor (crf) injected into the cerebral ventricles of small mammals induces eeg limbic seizures, behavioral excitability, stereotyped behavior, and tardive enhancement of hippocampal theta voltage and frequency. because we addressed this phenomenon when we explained the pathogenesis of infantile spasms in children, we wished to study the interference exerted by some gamma-endorphin fragments on eeg epileptiform and behavioral symptoms induced by crf in the rabbit. animals were implanted intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) with semichronic cortical and hippocampal electrodes, together with a cannula into the left lateral ventricle. when some gamma-endorphin derivatives (dt gamma e, de gamma e) were injected intravenously (i.v.) for 4 days (or hydrocortisone once), they prevented the eeg ictal seizures induced in the hippocampus of rabbits by crf injected i.c.v. hydrocortisone and de gamma e also prevented the appearance of scattered spiking and partially prevented tardive enhancement of theta voltage in the hippocampal eeg. finally, de gamma e also prevented stereotyped behavior and excitability induced by crf. these results confirm the regulatory role exerted by crf in limbic structure excitability and suggest that the above peptides may be involved in a regulatory feedback mechanism of crf metabolism or activity. the possibility that these peptides may also have interesting antiepileptogenic properties should be considered.
intraperitoneal cisplatin and cytarabine in the treatment of refractory or recurrent ovarian carcinoma preclinical evaluation has suggested impressive concentration-dependent cytotoxic synergy between cisplatin and cytarabine in ovarian carcinoma. to further evaluate the clinical relevance of these observations, 39 patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian carcinoma were entered onto a phase ii trial of intraperitoneal (ip) cisplatin (100 to 105 mg/m2 per course) plus cytarabine (600 to 900 mg per course). treatment was administered over 2 or 3 days for a maximum of five monthly courses, followed by surgical reevaluation in patients without clinical evidence of disease. the 3-day regimen was discontinued secondary to the development of severe thrombocytopenia (five of 12 courses platelets decreased to less than 50,000/mm3). additional toxicities included abdominal pain (moderate to severe at some time during therapy in 46% of patients), fever without evidence of infection (44%), and bacterial peritonitis (10%). three patients declined surgical reassessment. fourteen of 36 (39%; 95% confidence interval [ci], 23% to 55%) assessable patients demonstrated surgically defined responses, including 12 of 23 (52%; 95% ci, 32% to 72%) patients with tumor nodules less than 1 cm in diameter and only two of 13 (15%; 95% ci, 0% to 34%) patients with any lesion greater than 1 cm. there were seven (30%; 95% ci, 11% to 49%) surgically defined complete responses (crs) in patients with less than 1 cm disease and none in patients with larger tumor nodules. ip cisplatin/cytarabine results in a high surgically defined response rate in patients with minimal residual ovarian carcinoma, but activity is low in patients with bulky intraabdominal disease.
job's syndrome: a rare cause of recurrent lung abscess in childhood. a clinical syndrome characterized by recurrent staphylococcal infection of the skin and respiratory tract from birth was described in 1966 and referred to as job's syndrome. marked hyperimmunoglobulinemia e was later found to be associated with this syndrome. this article describes a case of job's syndrome as a cause of recurrent lung abscess during childhood necessitating lung resection.
clinical features of misdiagnosed appendicitis in children. study objective: to compare clinical features of children with misdiagnosed appendicitis with those of children with appendicitis initially diagnosed correctly. design: retrospective review of hospital, emergency department, and clinic records. setting: university medical center with annual ed census of 40,000 patients. participants: children less than 13 years old admitted between may 1, 1979, and april 30, 1989, with a discharge diagnosis of appendicitis. measurements: records were reviewed for historical, physical examination, laboratory, and pathologic features for all patients on their initial presentation to a physician and on final presentation during which the correct diagnosis was made. using chi 2 analysis and student's test, clinical features of misdiagnosed patients and patients diagnosed correctly were compared. results: one hundred eighty-one cases were identified with 50 initially misdiagnosed. on initial presentation, misdiagnosed patients were younger and more likely to have vomiting before pain onset, constipation, diarrhea, dysuria, and signs and symptoms of upper respiratory infections. misdiagnosed cases were less likely to have right lower quadrant tenderness and documentation of bowel sounds, peritoneal signs, and rectal examinations. on final presentation, misdiagnosed patients were more likely to have pain duration of more than two days, temperature of more than 38.3 c, and to appear lethargic and irritable (p less than .05 for all measurements). conclusion: clinical features of children with misdiagnosed appendicitis differ from those of children with appendicitis initially diagnosed correctly.
diaphragmatic force and substrate response to resistive loaded breathing in the piglet. inspiratory resistive loaded (irl) breathing results in hypoventilation and diaphragmatic fatigue in the piglet. we studied the effects of 6 h of irl on ten 1-mo-old piglets. the load was adjusted to increase spontaneously generated transdiaphragmatic pressure five to six times baseline. six 1-mo-old piglets acted as controls and were identically instrumented but were not subjected to irl. measurements of ventilation, blood gases and ph, diaphragmatic electromyogram, force-frequency curve, blood flow, and end-expiratory lung volume were obtained hourly. diaphragmatic muscle samples were obtained after 6 h for determination of atp, phosphocreatine, lactate, and glycogen levels. no changes occurred in the control animals. irl resulted in a significant decrease in ventilation, an increase in diaphragmatic emg, onset of abdominal expiratory muscle activity, and a fall in end-expiratory lung volume by 1 h. the force-frequency curve adjusted for lung volume change fell by 20% at all frequencies of stimulation at 1 h and by 40% at 6 h. blood flow to the costal and crural diaphragm increased by 51 and 141%, respectively. no differences were noted in atp, phosphocreatine, lactate, or glycogen between control and irl animals. it is concluded that submaximal spontaneous contractions of the piglet diaphragm over a 6-h period cause a substantial decrease in its maximal force-generating capacity that is not related to substrate depletion.
application of microwave tissue coagulation in partial nephrectomy. microwave tissue coagulation was used during partial nephrectomy in 10 mongrel dogs, without clamping the renal artery. there were no major complications, such as retroperitoneal hematoma, abscess formation, or macroscopic infarction of the kidney tissue related to this new procedure. the advantages of microwave coagulation are reduced blood loss, shorter operative time, and minimal risk of vascular injury.
small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract. four cases of anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas or biliary tract were studied clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically. all four cases were intermediate cell type and contained a minimum amount of microscopic foci of differentiated glandular adenocarcinoma. argyrophilic tumor cells were not seen in any of the four tumors. immunohistochemically, no tumor was positive for hormonal products, but all tumors were positive for epithelial markers. these findings suggest that the anaplastic carcinoma are not derived from argyrophilic cells, but rather from adenocarcinomas which have the potential for anaplastic metaplasia. the long-term survival of one patient emphasized the importance of chemotherapy in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract.
upper gastrointestinal pathology in familial adenomatous polyposis: results from a prospective study of 102 patients. multiple gastric and duodenal biopsy specimens from 102 asymptomatic patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, taken during a prospective endoscopic screening programme were examined. one hundred patients had microscopic gastroduodenal pathology, often in the absence of macroscopic lesions. adenomas were found in 94 patients in the duodenum, in the second and third parts. hyperplasia of villous and crypt epithelium was also seen, sometimes in the absence of adenomas: this may be a precursor of neoplastic change. in the stomach fundic gland polyps were the commonest abnormality, seen microscopically in 44 patients. chronic antral gastritis was common in patients without fundic polyps. gastric adenomas were present in six patients, all of whom also had duodenal adenomas. if duodenal adenomas in familial adenomatous polyposis have a similar malignant potential to those in the colorectum sequential endoscopy and biopsy are necessary to detect cancer in these patients.
fibrinopeptide a is released into the coronary circulation after coronary spasm. to examine whether acute myocardial ischemia activates the coagulation system and platelet activation in the coronary circulation, we measured plasma levels of fibrinopeptide a and beta-thromboglobulin in the coronary sinus and the aortic root simultaneously in 15 patients with coronary spastic angina before and after the left coronary spasm induced by intracoronary injection of acetylcholine and in 15 patients with stable exertional angina before and after acute myocardial ischemia induced by rapid atrial pacing. fifteen patients with chest pain but normal coronary arteries and no coronary spasm served as controls. the coronary sinus-arterial difference of fibrinopeptide a increased markedly (p less than 0.001) from 0.1 +/- 0.2 to 4.3 +/- 0.7 ng/ml after the anginal attacks in the coronary spastic angina group. however, fibrinopeptide a levels remained unchanged after the attacks in the stable exertional angina group and after intracoronary injection of acetylcholine in the control group. plasma beta-thromboglobulin levels remained unchanged after the attacks in both patient groups and after acetylcholine in the control group. our data indicate that coronary spasm induces thrombin generation and may lead to thrombus formation in the coronary artery involved, but pacing-induced ischemia does not activate the coagulation system.
arterial blood oxygen desaturation in infants and children during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. arterial blood oxygen desaturation and abnormal electrocardiographic changes have been reported in adults undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. we studied 32 infants and children less than 12 years of age using pulse oximetry and continuous electrocardiography before, during, and after upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed under intravenous sedation. sinus tachycardia was the most common electrocardiographic change, and no clinically significant electrocardiographic abnormalities were induced by the procedure. desaturation to less than or equal to 90% was found in 37.5% of the patients and was most commonly noted during the endoscopy procedure and in patients with cardiopulmonary disease. the desaturation was unpredictable because there was no correlation between desaturation and medication, tolerance to the procedure, weight, or age of the child. some patients who subjectively appeared to tolerate the procedure well had significant desaturation. the use of pulse oximetry should be considered for all children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
the association of blood pressure levels and change in renal function in hypertensive and nonhypertensive subjects. we compared the changes in serum creatinine levels over time after a mean follow-up of 9.8 years in essential hypertensive (eh, n = 56) and control (n = 59) male veteran subjects. all subjects had normal serum creatinine levels (62 to 124 mumol/l) and "normal" urinalysis results on entry into the study. subjects with comorbid renal diagnoses and diabetes mellitus were eliminated from the analysis. although not statistically significant, the rate of change in the serum creatinine concentration over time was greater in the eh cohort compared with the control cohort (1.08 +/- 4.8 vs 0.027 +/- 3.5 mumol/l per year). the difference was especially marked in black eh subjects vs black control subjects (1.60 +/- 6.2 mumol/l per year vs -0.21 +/- 3.3 mumol/l per year). when age, race, body mass index, and a diagnosis of eh were entered into a logistic regression analysis, eh subjects had a statistically significantly greater rate of decline in renal function than did control subjects (1.5 +/- 8.3 mumol/l per year). when mean time-averaged systolic blood pressure for each subject was also included in the logistic regression analysis, only systolic time-averaged blood pressure was statistically significant (0.063 +/- 0.029 mumol/l per year). we conclude that in the absence of clinically detected parenchymal renal disease, eh subjects have a greater rate of decline in renal function than do nonhypertensive subjects. time-averaged blood pressure is predictive of the change in serum creatinine concentration not only in eh subjects but also in nonhypertensive subjects. thus, preservation of renal function may require a blood pressure lower than the currently accepted normotensive range.
awareness during caesarean section. between 1982 and 1989 over 3000 patients were questioned about recall and dreaming after general anaesthesia for caesarean section. some 28 (0.9%) patients were able to recall something of their operation and 189 (6.1%) reported dreams. there was uniform adherence to a rigid anaesthetic protocol up to and including 1985, but a much publicized incident reported from the courtroom stimulated a relaxation of this regimen. consequently the incidence of awareness decreased from 1.3% to 0.4%, and the incidence of dreaming was also reduced. recollections of surgery were confined to manipulations, noises and voices. none of our patients complained of pain at the time of interview, although one since has. the inadequacies of the initial protocol and an approach to informed consent are discussed.
quantification of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging: in vitro investigations. the accuracy of quantifying the degree of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging (7.5-mhz, linear array system) was determined in an experimental study carried out on six concentric and five eccentric model stenoses (cross-sectional area reduction, 13.4%-93.8%). the measurements were made with use of pulsatile flow at four different flow rates (70.8-339.0 ml/min). the degree of stenosis was calculated from the ratio of prestenotic to intrastenotic flow velocity. the most exact measurement of the degree of stenosis could be achieved with doppler spectral analysis by determining the maximum peak systolic velocity (r = .994, y = 0.98x - 3.2). with the velocity values derived only from the color-coded image, it was also possible to find the most exact degree of stenosis (r = .995, y = 0.99x - 2.9). for quantification of stenosis, pre- and intrastenotic doppler spectral analysis is no longer necessary if the stenosis can be imaged sufficiently with color doppler.
clinical and electrographic effects of acute anticonvulsant withdrawal in epileptic patients. we retrospectively investigated the effects of acute antiepileptic drug (aed) withdrawal on seizure symptomatology--including frequency, clinical features, and electrical onset--by studying 35 patients during evaluation for epilepsy surgery. the highest risk for both partial and secondary generalized seizures occurred during absent or subtherapeutic, and not during rapidly falling, aed levels. aed withdrawal had minimal effect on clinical symptomatology or electrographic onset.
cognitive function and time-of-day variation in serum carbamazepine concentration in epileptic patients treated with monotherapy. different parameters of antiepileptic drug (aed) treatment have been shown to affect cognitive function. the drug, dose, and duration of treatment have been studied. the present study assessed cognitive function in relation to time-of-day variation in serum carbamazepine (cbz) concentration in epileptic patients treated with monotherapy. we studied 10 males and 12 females with a mean age of 36 years and a mean duration of cbz-therapy of 4.4 years. patients had been seizure-free for at least 1 month and took two daily cbz doses. the test battery included tests of motor speed, reaction time, attention, and memory. in the experimental design, the subjects were tested twice at times close to expected daily maximum and minimum serum cbz concentration. they were studied in two balanced blocks (block 1 tested at 8 a.m. and noon, block 2 tested at noon and 8 p.m.). blood samples were collected every 2 hr from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. the subjects showed significant differences in serum cbz concentration between testing times, with suggested maximum concentration between 10 a.m. and noon. the test battery showed no consistent differences between performance at times of high versus low serum concentration. a supplementary analysis of correlations between mean performance level on cognitive tests and variables related to cbz treatment did not show consistent trends.
marfanoid children. etiologic heterogeneity and cardiac findings. the clinical, cardiac, and echocardiographic test results of 20 children with marfanoid features are reviewed. fifteen were diagnosed as having marfan syndrome, two had "possible" marfan syndrome, and three had other diagnoses. on first evaluation, eight patients with marfan syndrome (53%) had mitral regurgitation and none had aortic regurgitation. echocardiography showed aortic root enlargement in 12 (80%) of 15 patients and mitral valve prolapse in 12 (80%) of 15. none had a normal echocardiogram. at follow-up examination, one patient had developed aortic root enlargement, and one patient, mitral valve prolapse. thus, although aortic root enlargement is usually present in early childhood in patients with marfan syndrome, it is not considered specific because in this study it also occurred in one child with alport's syndrome and in one with marfanoid features. four patients with aortic root enlargement were treated with propranolol and their echocardiograms showed no further increase in the aortic root diameter for several years. we recommend echocardiography in the diagnosis and routine management of children in whom marfan syndrome is suspected.
carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. optimal treatment for unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas remains controversial. this study was done to examine the relationship between perioperative jaundice and postoperative morbidity, and type of palliative biliary bypass and postoperative morbidity and jaundice clearance. seventy-six patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas were studied. forty-nine patients underwent one of four different types of palliative bypass: 1, cholecystojejunostomy (n = 22); 2, choledochojejunostomy (n = 11); 3, choledochoduodenostomy (n = 9), and 4, cholecystoduodenostomy (n = 7). age, sex and preoperative health status were similar for all operative groups, as well as for those with and without postoperative morbidity. the postoperative complication rate was 33 per cent and there was one postoperative death. length of preoperative jaundice and peak preoperative bilirubin levels were independent of morbidity. postoperative morbidity was similar for each type of bypass used and no significant difference was found when cholecystoenteric (1 and 4) and choledochoenteric (2 and 3) bypass were compared. the results of this study support the view that postoperative morbidity is not directly related to the presence of jaundice preoperatively. furthermore, the rate of jaundice clearance and the occurrence of postoperative complications are not dependent on the type of bypass used.
palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis: clinical results. the palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice. because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications, an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed. thirty patients were treated by this method. after choledochotomy, the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of oddi, thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis. twenty-nine patients (13 with gallbladder cancer, 11 with cholangiocarcinomas, 5 with metastases) presented with neoplastic compression, and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases. the operative mortality was 3.3% (one pulmonary complication). resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients, and pruritus always resolved. the mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer. indices of satisfaction (bismuth's method) were 71% (gallbladder cancer), 93.5% (hilar cholangiocarcinoma), and 92% (metastatic compressions). this new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated, has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity, and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients.
perforated duodenal ulcer: an unusual complication of gastroenteritis. a 7 year old boy was admitted to hospital with gastroenteritis, which was complicated by an acute perforated duodenal ulcer. after oversewing of the perforation he made an uncomplicated recovery. peptic ulceration is under-diagnosed in childhood and this leads to delay in diagnosis and appropriate management. ulceration is associated with severe illness and viral infections, but perforation is rare.
vertebrobasilar occlusion following minor trauma in an 8-year-old boy. an 8-year-old boy developed seizures and coma 2 days after a trivial bicycle accident. computed tomography failed to show pathology. magnetic resonance imaging of the head showed infarction of the pons and right cerebellum. angiography showed occlusion of the right vertebral and basilar arteries. minor traumatic injuries to the cervical spine may result in vertebrobasilar occlusion. the neurologic manifestations of this disorder and emergency department diagnosis and management are discussed.
slow release carbamazepine in treatment of poorly controlled seizures. thirty three children with poorly controlled epilepsy, and six new patients, were treated with slow release carbamazepine. twelve of the former had a reduction in the number of seizures of more than half, and 10 had fewer side effects. three of the new patients stopped having seizures. variations in plasma concentrations between doses was significantly less when patients took the slow release preparation (22%) compared with the standard preparation (41%). slow release carbamazepine may improve the conditions of children whose seizures are poorly controlled.
circadian rhythms in blood pressure in school-age children of normotensive and hypertensive parents. the purpose of this study was to describe the characteristics of blood pressure rhythms in school-age children and to compare the circadian mesors and amplitudes between children of normotensive parents and children of hypertensive parents. the sample consisted of 40 healthy children between 8 and 10 years old; 20 children had a parental history of hypertension and 20 did not. blood pressure was measured every 2 hours during the day and every 90 minutes during the night for one 24-hour cycle using a dinamap monitor equipped with an automatic printer. cosinor analyses revealed statistically significant circadian rhythms for systolic and diastolic blood pressures in 12 of the 40 subjects. the acrophases for systolic and diastolic pressures occurred between 1200-1800 hours. the mean systolic mesor was 108.50 while the mean diastolic mesor was 61.41. the mean amplitudes were 8.85 for systolic pressure and 7.44 for diastolic pressure. no statistically significant differences in circadian mesors and amplitudes between children of normotensive parents and children of hypertensive parents were found.
association of helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy. purpose: to determine the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease. patients and methods: forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at massachusetts general hospital were studied over a period of 18 months, as well as 24 patients undergoing ercp for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease. two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis. sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay. all specimens were processed in a blind fashion. chi-square test with yates' correction was used for statistical analysis. results: h. pylori was found in 31 of 46 (67%) study patients and in six of 24 (25%) control patients (by microbiologic or histologic techniques) (p less than 0.01). h. pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60% of patients without ulcers. no association between h. pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed. h. pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum, although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis. compared with histology, serologic assays for igg and iga antibodies to h. pylori had sensitivities of 100% and 94%, and specificities of 86% and 76%, respectively. reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94% while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80%. conclusions: h. pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ercp. multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection. serologies of igg and iga were sensitive and specific for h. pylori, suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection. the frequent association of h. pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism.
race, nutritional status, and survival from breast cancer. the effects of nutritional status on differences in the survival of black and white women with breast cancer were studied in a cohort of 1,960 georgia women diagnosed during 1975-1979. after data were adjusted for stage of disease, socioeconomic status, and other prognostic factors, poorer survival rates were shown in black women. within each stage classification, lower levels of serum albumin and hemoglobin and higher relative body weight were more common among blacks and were independently associated with poorer survival. among women with stage 3 disease, adjustment for these variables substantially reduced the excess mortality rate among blacks, suggesting that racial differences in survival may be partly explained by differences in nutritional status or extent of disease within stage.
role of free radicals and platelet-activating factor in the genesis of intestinal motor disturbances induced by escherichia coli endotoxins in rats. the effects of iv administration of escherichia coli endotoxin on intestinal myoelectric activity was investigated in conscious fasted rats chronically implanted with nichrome electrodes in the duodenojejunum. these effects were compared with those of platelet-activating factor and were evaluated in animals pretreated with a specific platelet-activating factor antagonist, bn 52021, indomethacin, a selective prostaglandin e2 antagonist, sc 19220, and several free radical scavengers. intravenous administration of endotoxin (e. coli s.o111:b4) at a dose of 50 micrograms/kg suppressed the migrating myoelectric complexes, which were replaced by continuous rhythmic clusters of rapidly propagated spike bursts for 114.7 +/- 19.9 minutes. intraperitoneal platelet-activating factor (25 micrograms/kg) also inhibited the migrating myoelectric complex pattern for 146.1 +/- 24.1 minutes. previous iv administration of bn 52021 (50 mg/kg-1) abolished the motor alterations induced by platelet-activating factor and significantly reduced to 43.1 +/- 12.2 minutes those induced by endotoxin (p less than 0.01). indomethacin (10 mg/kg ip), injected before endotoxin or platelet-activating factor, also significantly reduced the duration of migrating myoelectric complex inhibition to 45.6 +/- 7.8 and 47.7 +/- 8.3 minutes, respectively (p less than 0.01). sc 19220 significantly reduced the effects of platelet-activating factor from 151.8 +/- 26.4 to 67.4 +/- 14.7 min (p less than 0.01). superoxide dismutase (15,000 u/kg iv) injected before either endotoxin or platelet-activating factor shortened the migrating myoelectric complex inhibition to 45.7 +/- 9.9 and 72.9 +/- 10.4 minutes, respectively (p less than 0.01). allopurinol and dimethylsulfoxide administered orally at 50 mg/kg 1 hour before endotoxin reduced the migrating myoelectric complex inhibition to 42.5 +/- 6.5 and 38.2 +/- 6.4 minutes, respectively (p less than 0.01). they also reduced platelet-activating factor-induced intestinal myoelectric alterations to 68.5 +/- 10.6 and 31.7 +/- 6.1 minutes, respectively (p less than 0.01). it is concluded that endogenous release of platelet-activating factor is partly responsible for the intestinal motor alterations induced by endotoxin, these effects being also mediated through the release of prostaglandins and free radicals. however, prostaglandins, as well as free radicals, appear to be partly involved in the platelet-activating factor-induced action of e. coli endotoxin on intestinal motility.
tracheal extubation in children: halothane versus isoflurane, anesthetized versus awake. the authors compared the incidence of respiratory complications and arterial hemoglobin desaturation during emergence from anesthesia in children whose tracheas were extubated while they were anesthetized or after they were awake and to whom halothane or isoflurane had been administered. one hundred children 1-4 yr of age undergoing minor urologic surgery were studied. after a standard induction technique, patients were randomized to receive either isoflurane or halothane. in 50 patients tracheal extubation was performed while they were breathing 2 mac of either halothane or isoflurane in 100% oxygen. the remaining 50 patients received 2 mac (volatile agent plus nitrous oxide) during the operation, but tracheal extubation was delayed until they were awake. a blinded observer recorded the incidence of respiratory complications and continuously measured hemoglobin saturation for 15 min after extubation. when tracheal extubation occurred in deeply anesthetized patients, no differences were found between the two volatile agents. when tracheal extubation of awake patients was performed, the use of isoflurane was associated with more episodes of coughing and airway obstruction than was halothane (p less than 0.05). awake tracheal extubation following either agent was associated with significantly more episodes of hemoglobin desaturation than was tracheal extubation while anesthetized.
goal attainment scaling and outcome measurement in postacute brain injury rehabilitation. relationships among two-month and final goal attainment scaling (gas) scores, preadmission and final portland adaptability inventory (pai) scores, and work outcome for 16 graduates of a comprehensive, postacute brain injury rehabilitation program were examined. final gas scores were higher for program graduates who obtained the most desirable work outcomes, and preadmission and final pai scores were lower for the successful program graduates. final gas scores were significantly correlated with other outcome measures. preadmission pai scores predicted work outcome, and two-month gas scores predicted final gas scores. initial pai scores distinguished between program successes and failures, but not between program successes and dropouts. a brief look at one case illustrates the modified application of gas in postacute brain injury rehabilitation. results of this study and case analyses support gas as a quantifiable, individualized measure that is useful for (1) monitoring patient progress, (2) structuring team conferences, (3) ongoing rehabilitation planning and decision-making, (4) concise, relevant communication to family, referral sources, and funding sources, and (5) overall program evaluation when used in the context of other objective outcome measures. although our results support the clinical utility of gas, further study is recommended to assess the psychometric characteristics of gas in this application.
intraoperative bronchial aspiration of ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts. ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts are seen clinically and radiologically as persistent cavitary lesions of the lung. bronchi opening into the pericyst cavity allow for discharge of fluid matter but not the escape of solid remnants of the collapsed parasite. operative manipulation of the involved lung in the course of surgical management of chronic ruptured pulmonary hydatids can force fragments of the laminated membrane or small daughter cysts into the bronchial tree. such extruded solid fragments lodge in bronchi of the same or opposite lung with resulting acute obstruction of airways. intraoperative bronchial aspiration of hydatid material was seen in 7 patients with ruptured hydatid cysts of the lung, either primary or secondary to transdiaphragmatic extension of liver hydatids. the first clinical sign can be unexplained difficulty in ventilation. effective management consists of prompt exposure of the stem bronchus on the operative side, with bronchotomy for suction retrieval of escaped solid fragments of the parasite.
leiomyosarcoma of the larynx: emergency laryngectomy. leiomyosarcoma of the larynx is extremely rare. a patient with respiratory obstruction due to such a tumour is presented. this was originally misdiagnosed as hysteria. the treatment of choice was an emergency laryngectomy.
resolution of inferior vena cava syndrome after embolization of a hepatic adenoma. a 77-year-old man presented with severe pruritus and massive lower body edema. computerized axial tomography of the abdomen showed a large hepatic mass compressing the inferior vena cava, and a liver biopsy specimen showed hepatic adenoma. embolization of vessels feeding the hepatic tumor resulted in complete resolution of pruritus and ascites, and clinical remission has persisted for 1 year following partial obliteration of tumor vasculature. angiographic ablation of tumor blood supply represents a nonoperative means for inducing clinical remission in patients with symptomatic hepatic adenoma who are at high surgical risk.
acute respiratory failure caused by pulmonary vasculitis after l-tryptophan ingestion. this report describes two women who presented with severe respiratory failure and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates in the fall of 1989. both required prolonged assisted ventilation because of severe shunt physiology. open lung biopsies on admission revealed a small vessel vasculitis as the sole morphologic abnormality in both patients. both responded to high dose corticosteroids. neither patient exhibited evidence of systemic vasculitis, and neither had serologic evidence of an immune disorder. common to both patients was ingestion of l-tryptophan. one patient exhibited several features of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the other patient did not appear to have the syndrome, but the temporal relationship between the onset of symptoms and initiation of l-tryptophan treatment was striking. the presentation of these patients alters our notions concerning the spectrum of clinical manifestations caused by this agent, and the response to methylprednisolone supports its efficacy in the treatment of this disorder.
oncogenes and suppressor genes: their involvement in colon cancer [editorial] abnormalities in oncogenes, which are broadly classified into viral and cellular oncogenes, and suppressor genes appear critical for the development of colon cancer. cellular oncogenes contribute to malignant transformation when they become activated by point mutation, translocation, amplification, or loss of regulator sequences. the properties of the oncoproteins, the proteins encoded by oncogenes which are essential for carcinogenesis, are unclear. suppressor genes normally suppress the tumorigenic phenotype by keeping the growth of cells in check; it is their inactivation that contributes to malignant transformation. development of colon cancer appears to take place by stepwise accumulation of multiple genetic alterations during the progression from normal colon to adenoma and carcinoma. activation of ras, an early event in this sequence, is found in 50% of colon cancers; overexpression of c-myc is found in approximately 80%. inactivation of suppressor genes, which occurs during later stages, is noted in greater than 70% of tumors. a current model of colonic tumorigenesis is presented.
urinary tract dilatation in pregnancy. right-sided ureteral and renal pelvis dilatation was observed during routine uterine ultrasonographic examination at 30 weeks' gestation. this continued to progress with the renal pelvis measuring 8.9 cm in diameter at 35 weeks, leading to early delivery. renal function remained normal and these changes resolved completely after delivery.
independence of pressure reactivity from pressure levels in tecumseh, michigan. the relation between blood pressure level and reactivity to mental arithmetic and isometric exercise was investigated in 169 men and 120 women (average age, 32.3 years) from the village of tecumseh, mich. in the entire population, the correlation between baseline blood pressure and blood pressure response to both stressors was not significant. blood pressure reactivity to both stressors was not increased in participants with borderline hypertension (one clinic reading of more than 140 mm hg systolic and/or 90 mm hg diastolic). when subjects were classified according to blood pressure response (below and above the 80th percentile), the hyperreactors to mental and physical stress had normal baseline blood pressure values. the hyperreactors also had clinic-to-home blood pressure differences similar to those of the rest of the population. participants who had borderline hypertension at age 32 years had significantly elevated blood pressures at ages 5, 8, 12, 21, and 22 years. those who were hyperreactors at age 32 years had normal blood pressures as children and young adults. results of the present study lend no support to an association between higher blood pressures and blood pressure hyperreactivity. study participants in tecumseh will be recalled for future examinations. the independence of blood pressure levels from blood pressure reactivity offers a unique opportunity to prospectively evaluate their separate effects on cardiovascular morbidity.
p53 expression in colorectal tumors. the expression of the nuclear phosphoprotein p53 was studied immunohistochemically in a series of 150 benign and malignant colorectal tumors. using monoclonal antibody pab1801, tumors divided unequivocally into two groups on the basis of immunohistochemistry. forty of the carcinomas (46.5%) showed positive staining but only 4 of the adenomas (8.7%) were positive (p less than 0.001). the few positive adenomas always showed moderate or severe dysplasia. metaplastic polyps (n = 9) and small familial adenomatous polyposis-related adenomas (n = 9) were uniformly negative. carcinomas with p53 expression did not differ from those without in terms of site, differentiation or the prognostic indicators of dukes' stage, dna ploidy, or tumor histology. the improved morphologic resolution available in periodate lysine paraformaldehyde dichromate (plpd)-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue permitted several conclusions to be made: p53 is confined to neoplastic nuclei; staining in positive tumors is heterogeneous and often more marked at the infiltrative margins; and staining intensity is dramatically reduced in mitotic cells. it is concluded that expression of immunohistochemically detectable p53 (probably representing mutated forms of the protein) occurs in some adenomas around the time of transition to carcinoma. therefore there is an association with the appearance of infiltrative behavior but not with degree of tumor progression (including metastasis) at the time of resection.
intraoperative pancreatic fine needle aspiration biopsy. results in 166 patients. intraoperative fine needle aspiration biopsy (nab) of undiagnosed pancreatic masses was studied in 166 patients over a 17-year period. the cytologic diagnoses were correlated with histologic specimens, autopsy results, or clinical follow-up (benign disease was documented if the patient was alive without malignancy at least 2 years after laparotomy). aspirates were interpreted as benign, suspicious, malignant, or unsatisfactory. malignant disease was the final diagnosis in 109 patients; the cytology was concordant in 101 and was interpreted as suspicious in four. four patients with benign cytology later proved to have malignant disease--a false-negative rate of 2.5 per cent. a total of 57 patients had benign disease; 51 of these had benign cytology. the remaining patients had "unsatisfactory" cytology reports. a 93 per cent sensitivity, 100 per cent specificity, and 0 per cent complication rate are reported. there were no false-positive cytology reports. complications are rare and represent case reports, thus, additional sampling is at minimal risk. intraoperative pancreatic nab is a safe, easy, more accurate biopsy technique than historical wedge or core needle biopsies. it is the biopsy method of choice for pancreatic masses found at laparotomy.
effect of interleukin-1-beta on metastasis formation in different tumor systems. experiments were done to determine the effect of interleukin-1-beta (il-1 beta) on metastasis formation in different tumor systems. intravenous administration of 1 microgram of human recombinant il-1 beta given 1 hour before tumor cell injection augmented lung colony formation (experimental metastases) by the human a375 melanoma variants, the human ht-29m colon carcinoma, the sn12-k1 renal carcinoma in nude mice, the murine b16 melanoma variants, and the murine uv-2237m fibrosarcoma in syngeneic recipients. the same treatment did not induce lung colony formation by a human rectal carcinoma (hcc-p2988) or by a murine reticulum cell sarcoma (m5076), both of which are not metastatic to the lung. spontaneous metastases were studied in c57bl/6 mice bearing the b16-bl6 melanoma (metastatic to the lung) in their footpad and the m5076 reticulum cell sarcoma (metastatic to the liver) subcutaneously. daily intraperitoneal treatment with 1 microgram of il-1 beta increased lung and liver metastases. these findings indicate that treatment of mice with il-1 beta can increase the number of artificial or spontaneous metastases and that this effect is not limited to a single tumor type or to a specific organ.
the value of the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in the treatment of complex perineal fistula. complex perineal fistula and persistent perineal sinus are difficult to treat. we describe our experience with wide excision of the diseased perineum using a combined abdominoperineal approach. ten patients were reconstructed by a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap (n = 7), rectus abdominis muscle flap (n = 2), and omental graft (n = 1). primary healing was achieved in all cases. a median follow-up of 18 months (range 6-54 months) has shown no recurrence of perineal disease or associated abdominal incisional hernia. there were no perioperative deaths. we propose that the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap is indicated if large amounts of perineal skin has to be sacrificed. when less skin is removed a repair with greater omentum or rectus muscle alone is adequate. the abdominoperineal approach together with filling the residual pelvic cavity with well-vascularized tissue allows definitive treatment to be carried out in one stage.
mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome with splenosis. a case report. this is the first reported case of simultaneously occurring pelvic splenosis and mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome. no other congenital or anatomic abnormalities were observed in the patient, and she had no history of abdominal trauma or surgery. endometriosis was suspected initially during laparoscopy for pelvic pain. after tissue removal at laparotomy, the histologic evaluation established the diagnosis of splenosis. biopsy at laparoscopy should be considered to confirm the diagnosis in the presence of a congenital anomaly and lesions suspected of being endometriotic.
hypertension prevalence and the status of awareness, treatment, and control in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey (hhanes), 1982-84 the prevalence rates of hypertension among adult (ages 18-74) mexican americans, cuban americans, and puerto ricans were estimated using data from the 1982-84 hispanic health and nutrition examination survey (hhanes). hypertension is defined as diastolic greater than or equal to 90 mm hg, or systolic greater than or equal to 140 mm hg, or currently taking antihypertensive medication. among mexican americans in the southwestern united states, 16.8 percent of the males and 14.1 percent of the females were found to be hypertensive. among cuban americans in dade county, florida 22.8 percent of the males and 15.5 percent of the females were hypertensive. among puerto ricans in the new york city area 15.6 percent of the males and 11.5 percent of the females were hypertensive. the age-adjusted rates are significantly lower than comparable rates for whites and blacks as measured in the second national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes ii), 1976-80. control of hypertension in the hhanes populations fall short of the 1990 objectives for the nation established by the us public health service 60 percent (34 percent controlled mexican american hypertensives, 27.8 percent controlled cuban american hypertensives, and 29 percent controlled puerto rican hypertensives.
differential effects of sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide on growth and secretion of cultured human endocrine tumor cells. advanced gastrointestinal endocrine tumors respond poorly to conventional chemotherapy. in this study we examined the effects of two agents that promote cellular differentiation, sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide, on the in vitro growth and secretory responses of a human pancreatic carcinoid (bon) and human gastrinoma (pt-2 and pt-sm) cell lines that have been established in our laboratory. we found that both sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide strongly inhibited growth of bon, pt-2, and pt-sm cells. with continuous exposure of bon cells to sodium butyrate (2 mmol/l), the doubling time was prolonged, from 60 hours in controls to 156 hours, and saturation density was reduced to 28% that of controls. hexamethylene bisacetamide (4 mmol/l) reduced saturation density to 37% that of controls in bon cells and prolonged the doubling time, from 60 hours to 103 hours. antiproliferative effects of similar magnitudes were observed in the gastrinoma cell lines. in contrast, differential effects were produced on amine biosynthesis in bon cells; sodium butyrate stimulated levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the cells, whereas hexamethylene bisacetamide caused a profound dose-dependent inhibition of amine biosynthesis. the significant antiproliferative activity of sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide and the inhibitory effects of hexamethylene bisacetamide on amine biosynthesis warrant evaluation of these agents or analogues for treatment of metastatic carcinoid and gastrinoma.
sudden infant death syndrome and small airway occlusion: facts and a hypothesis. respiratory failure is almost certainly the cause of death in the majority of cases of sudden infant death syndrome (sids), but the mechanisms leading to it have not been elucidated. sids shares many environmental and socioeconomic risk factors with severe forms of bronchiolitis, and the age distribution of incident cases is similar. present knowledge of lung and airway development during infancy, determinants of peripheral airway patency, changes in lung surface activity in infants with sids, and fluid film dynamics in small airways are reviewed. it is hypothesized that many cases of sids may be due to a final episode of progressive peripheral bronchial occlusion in infants with preceding critically diminished conductance of the smaller airways.
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus. a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties (tkas) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus. the overall infection rate was 7%, with an overall revision rate of 10% and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years. wound complications were present in 12% of the tkas. the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients. therefore, maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis.
antibiotic pharmacokinetics in surgery pharmacokinetics is the study of variables that affect drug concentrations at the effector site. the descriptive terms peak concentration, elimination half-life, volume of distribution, and bioavailability are commonly used to express pharmacokinetic variability among drugs used in patient care. the pharmacokinetic characteristics of drugs are important for surgeons to understand because they represent differences that may assume clinical significance when selecting antibiotics for preoperative preventive indications. in addition, the changing hemodynamic pattern of the stressed and septic patient may result in changing pharmacokinetic patterns for an antibiotic, which, in turn, may require changes in the dosing regimen during the course of treatment.
perinatal mortality in victoria, australia: role of group b streptococcus. group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus is the most common infective cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality. it is therefore surprising that no agreement exists for an approach to its prevention. there is also increasing evidence that occult infection may play an etiologic role in premature rupture of the membranes and preterm labor. in this report we review the role of group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal sepsis as a cause of perinatal wastage in the state of victoria, australia during the period 1982 to 1987. group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus accounted for 1.7% of overall perinatal deaths, and for 30.3% (77 of 254) perinatal deaths directly attributable to infection. by comparison, over the same 6-year period, erythroblastosis accounted for 0.5% of perinatal wastage and there were only two deaths as a result of congenital syphilis. the true incidence of lethal group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection is probably greater because of the absence of histologic and bacteriologic studies in many perinatal deaths. we believe that intrapartum chemoprophylaxis with penicillin of all group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus-positive carrier mothers would significantly reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality from this cause.
high risk of severe bleeding in aged patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. the purpose of this study was to estimate the incidence and to establish which factors were associated with an increased risk of hemorrhagic complications in an historic cohort of 117 consecutive and unselected patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (itp). sixty-eight patients (58%) underwent medical treatment and/or splenectomy and 33 (48% of treated) achieved a complete stable remission. at equivalent platelet count the incidence of major hemorrhagic complications was significantly higher in aged (greater than 60 years) than in younger (less than 40 years) patients (10.4% v 0.4%/pt-y, relative risk = 28.9, p less than .01). a previous hemorrhagic event was identified as another major risk factor for hemorrhage (relative risk = 27.5, p less than .0005), while hypertension and underlying disorders had no influence. we conclude that age more than 60 years and a previous history of bleeding are major risk factors for severe hemorrhages in adults with itp.
leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score in patients with cerebrovascular disease and in patients with primary and metastatic brain tumors. leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (lap) activity in peripheral blood was determined in 54 patients with cerebrovascular disease (cvd), 11 patients with primary brain tumor, and 23 patients with metastatic brain tumor. the lap score of the primary brain tumor patients (155 +/- 40) was significantly higher (p less than 0.03) than the lap score for cerebrovascular disease patients (96 +/- 87). the lap score levels of the metastatic brain tumor patients (251 +/- 55) was significantly higher as compared with both the cerebrovascular disease (p less than 0.001) and primary brain tumor groups (p less than 0.001). the lap score could serve as an additional, although non-specific, marker to assist in the differentiation between cerebrovascular disease and brain tumors.
natural history of congestive gastropathy in cirrhosis. the liver study group of v. cervello hospital. in a prospective study of the natural history of congestive gastropathy, 212 consecutive cirrhotic patients (75 treated with sclerotherapy) were included. mean follow-up was 46 months. mild gastropathy (mosaiclike pattern) was found in 110 patients and severe gastropathy (granular mucosa with cherry spots) was found in 20. prevalence of helicobacter pylori, formerly campylobacter pylori, was 50% in patients without, 43% in those with mild, and 28% in those with severe gastropathy. congestive gastropathy was significantly more frequent in patients treated with sclerotherapy (83% vs. 50%, p less than 10(-5)). sixty-month actuarial proportions of patients free of anemia (in the absence of hematemesis or melena), were 17% with severe, 62% with mild, and 93% without gastropathy (p less than 10(-8]. corresponding figures for overt bleeding were 25%, 73%, and 87% (p less than 10(-7], whereas those for survival were 46%, 72%, and 85% (p = 0.0005), respectively. a multivariate regression analysis supported the following conclusions: (a) sclerotherapy and the presence of large esophageal varices significantly increase the risk of congestive gastropathy, which (b) is a significant risk indicator of both chronic and overt bleeding but does not independently affect survival.
the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome. a patient developed isolated numbness, 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip, but later involving the cheek, lower lip, upper gingiva, and the palate. this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop (the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome). squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve. cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches.
restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis. to analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) or temporal arteritis (ta) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed. the mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with pmr 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months. in patients with ta the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months, and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months. patients with coexisting ta and pmr demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either ta or pmr and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years. no visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated. our study indicates that most patients with pmr or ta can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily. with few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months.
routes and incidence of communication of lumbar discs with surrounding neural structures. several authors have previously reported the complications resulting from contact between a diagnostic or therapeutic agent injected into an intervertebral disc and neural tissue. this study was undertaken to demonstrate the common routes by which, and frequency with which this contact occurs. of 105 cadaveric intervertebral discs studies, 15 (14%) leaked. of the discs that leaked, 27% demonstrated contact of injected dye with the adjacent spinal nerve. the high rate of leakage may be related to the age of the cadavers. nonetheless, the contact between substances injected into an intervertebral disc and adjacent neural tissue during discography offers an alternate mechanism of pain reproduction in an incompetent disc. it also suggests that nontoxic agents should be used for discography and that intervertebral discs should be proved competent before chemonucleolysis.
comparison of rectal, axillary, and tympanic membrane temperatures in infants and young children. study objective: to evaluate the reliability of a tympanic membrane thermometer in detecting fever in young children presenting to the emergency department. setting: pediatric emergency department in an urban teaching hospital, design/measurement/participants: temperature measurements were obtained sequentially at three body sites in children less than 3 years old presenting to the pediatric ed. axillary and rectal temperatures were obtained with an electronic thermistor probe (diatek 500), and tympanic membrane temperatures were obtained with a noncontact, infrared sensing device (first temp). patients were stratified by age, ear canal patency, presence of otitis media, and rectal temperature. results: of 224 patients enrolled, 87 (39%) were febrile. overall correlation of axillary and tympanic membrane measurements to rectal for all strata was .75 (p = .001) and .81 (p = .001), respectively. sensitivity in detecting fever for axillary and tympanic membrane sites was .48 and .55, respectively. otitis media and ear patency did not influence correlation of tympanic membrane measurements. low tympanic membrane temperature sensitivity may be a result of probe configuration. conclusion: tympanic membrane and axillary temperatures should be viewed with caution in children less than 3 years old as neither can detect fever reliably.
factors predictive of results of direct ablative operations for drug-refractory ventricular tachycardia. analysis of 80 patients. during a 9-year period 80 patients with drug-resistant sustained ventricular tachycardia underwent direct surgical ablation of arrhythmogenic myocardium. sixty-nine were male (86%) and 11 female (14%), with 1.9 +/- 1.1 (standard deviation) ventricular tachycardia morphologies per patient. the mean number of drugs failed was 3.7 +/- 1.6 per patient. the preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction was 36.4% +/- 14.4%. complete preoperative endocardial mapping data (greater than 4 endocardial sites in each ventricular tachycardia) were available for 60 of the 80 patients (75%) and intraoperative endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia was obtained in 37 (46.3%) of the patients. in 17 patients mapped intraoperatively by computer-assisted techniques, complete epicardial and endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia were obtained in 14 patients (82.4%). overall, 73 of 80 (91.3%) had some mapping data available. hospital mortality occurred in 10 patients (12.5%) at a mean interval of 13.5 days, range 0 to 62 days. postoperatively the clinical ventricular tachycardia has not recurred in 65 of 70 surviving patients (92.9%). nonclinical ventricular tachycardia occurred in another four patients. all nine patients with postoperative ventricular tachycardia responded to drugs. the major factors predictive of hospital mortality were prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass (greater than 150 minutes), preoperative ejection fraction less than 31%, and incomplete preoperative mapping. hospital mortality in patients with an ejection fraction below 31% was significantly associated with a history of amiodarone usage. at 3 years of follow-up, freedom from sudden cardiac death was 95.7%, and 86.7% of patients were free of ventricular tachycardia on no antiarrhythmic drugs. these results suggest that direct ventricular tachycardia operations are an effective form of therapy for patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia.
all-trans retinoic acid as a differentiation therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia. i. clinical results. twenty-two patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ra, 45 mg/m2 per day) for 90 days. of the 22, four patients were previously untreated, two were resistant after conventional chemotherapy, and 16 were in first (n = 11), second (n = 4), or third (n = 1) relapse. we observed 14 complete response, four transient responses, one failure, and three early deaths. length of hospitalization and number of transfusions were notably reduced in complete responders. correction of coagulation disorders and an increase of wbcs were the first signs of all-trans ra efficacy. morphologic analysis performed at days 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, and 90 showed that complete remissions were obtained without bone marrow (bm) hypoplasia. presence of auer rods in the maturing cells confirmed the differentiation effect of the treatment. at remission, the t(15;17) initially present in 20 patients was not found. the in vitro studies showed a differentiation in the presence of all-trans ra in 16 of the 18 tested cases. the single nonresponder to all trans ra in vitro did not respond in vivo. adverse effects of ra therapy--skin and mucosa dryness, hypertriglyceridemia, and increase of hepatic transaminases--were frequently noted. we also observed bone pain in 11 patients and hyperleukocytosis in four patients. whether maintenance treatment consisted of low-dose chemotherapy or all-trans ra, early relapses were observed. five patients are still in complete remission (cr) at 4 to 13 months. our study confirms the major efficacy of all-trans ra in m3, even in relapsing patients. remissions are obtained by a differentiation process.
phase i study of interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2a as outpatient therapy for patients with advanced malignancy. twenty-six patients were treated in this phase i study with the combination of interleukin-2 (il2) administered as a continuous infusion and interferon alfa-2a (ifn alpha-2a) administered intramuscularly to patients in an outpatient setting. the maximum-tolerated dose of both agents given as outpatient therapy was 2 x 10(6) u/m2 days 1 to 5 of il2 and 9 x 10(6) u/m2 days 1, 3, and 5 of ifn alpha-2a for 4 consecutive weeks. a 2- to 4-week rest period was permitted after each 4 weeks of treatment. fatigue was the treatment-limiting toxicity, and serious clinical or laboratory abnormalities occurred infrequently during this study. patients with colon cancer metastatic to the liver tolerated treatment worse than patients with other tumors. twelve of the 15 patients with renal cell cancer were assessable for response determinations. of these 12 patients, three exhibited complete tumor regression, three have had partial objective regression, and three patients experienced stabilization of rapidly progressive disease. this therapy appears to be well tolerated in an outpatient treatment setting and shows significant activity against advanced renal cell cancer.
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in malignant mesothelioma of tunica vaginalis testis. a case of metastatic mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis testis in a 57-year-old man is reported. clinicopathological findings and treatment options are reviewed.
circadian variation in onset of acute ischemic stroke. a circadian pattern for the onset of myocardial and cerebral infarction has been identified. to evaluate this phenomenon further, we analyzed prospectively collected data from 151 patients with acute ischemic stroke. the number of strokes per 6-hour period were the following: midnight to 6 am, 20 (13%); 6 am to noon, 86 (57%); noon to 6 pm, 21 (14%); and 6 pm to midnight, 24 (16%). this pattern was not affected by previous use of aspirin. the most frequent time of onset was 6 am to noon for all subgroups of ischemic stroke: small artery, 71%; cardioembolic, 62%; large artery atherothrombotic, 57%; large artery atheroembolic, 46%; and "other" or unknown cause, 40%. we also investigated the time between awakening and stroke onset in 145 patients and found that 24% of ischemic strokes occurred within the first hour after awakening. our data demonstrate that an early morning peak exists for all subtypes of stroke. our data also suggest that the most critical period is the first hour after awakening.
longitudinal histopathologic assessment of rejection after bladder-drained canine pancreas allograft transplantation. in preparation for assessment of percutaneous biopsies in our clinical pancreas transplant program, a working knowledge of the histopathologic changes after transplantation was obtained in a longitudinal open biopsy study of 16 dogs receiving bladder-drained whole pancreas allografts. edema, extravasation of polymorphs, and lymphocytes associated with focal parenchymal injury were early, invariable, and probably nonspecific findings. the initial feature of unmodified rejection was the appearance of capillary and small vein endothelial changes with mainly perivascular inflammatory cell infiltration. acinar cell loss occurred early and was progressive, whereas islets and ducts were relatively preserved, indicating that acinar tissue may be more vulnerable to lytic necrosis when damaged. functional rejection, determined by fasting urinary amylase levels, was at a stage of extensive and irreversible necrosis. functioning grafts in immunosuppressed dogs had minor and transient endothelial changes with absence of class ii antigen staining of parenchymal cells.
the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer. the aim of this retrospective study was to determine the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer in relation to the site of the index ulcer. one hundred and thirty-five patients who had recurrent duodenal ulcer after documented healing of an index ulcer were studied. the recurrent ulcer was more likely to occur in the anterior bulb if the index ulcer was anterior (35 of 58 = 60%) than if the index ulcer was not anterior (29 of 77 = 38%, p less than 0.01). however, the likelihood of a recurrent ulcer on the posterior wall of the bulb was not significantly different whether the index ulcer was posterior (11 of 36 = 31%) or not (22 of 99 = 22%, p less than 0.24). three of 20 patients (15%) who initially presented with bleeding bled again with their recurrent ulcers, compared with eight of 115 patients (7%) who first presented with dyspepsia only (p = 0.39). thirteen patients were assessed independently by two endoscopists to determine ulcer site. their assessments concurred for 12 (92%).
a monoclonal antibody against the cd18 leukocyte adhesion molecule prevents indomethacin-induced gastric damage in the rabbit. the role of leukocyte adherence in the mechanism of gastropathy induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was investigated using a rabbit model. gastric damage was induced by intragastric instillation of indomethacin [5 mg/ml] for a period of 30 minutes. histologically, this treatment resulted in extensive vascular congestion and leukocyte margination within the mucosa. pretreatment with a monoclonal antibody [ib-4] directed against the common beta subunit of the cd11/cd18 adhesion glycoprotein complex significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced both the vasocongestion and the prevalence of leukocyte margination. macroscopically, indomethacin treatment resulted in the formation of numerous hemorrhagic lesions in the corpus region of the stomach. pretreatment with ib-4 reduced the extent of gastric hemorrhagic damage by approximately 85% (p less than 0.001). damage in the group pretreated with ib-4 did not differ significantly from that in rabbits that did not receive indomethacin. in separate experiments, the dose of ib-4 used was shown to completely suppress the recruitment of granulocytes in response to two different agonists. these results support the hypothesis that leukocyte adherence to the vascular endothelium is an important event in the pathogenesis of ulceration induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. leukocytes might contribute to ulceration by occluding microvessels, thereby reducing mucosal blood flow, and by releasing various mediators, proteases, and free radicals that can produce tissue necrosis.
new surgical approach to complicated gastroesophageal reflux disease: transthoracic parietal cell vagotomy. surgical treatment of peptic stricture of the esophagus associated with columnar (barrett) metaplasia can be a difficult problem. collis-nissen fundoplication restores an intraabdominal antireflux barrier for most cases of peptic stricture; however, 20% of patients may have persistence of pathological acid reflux. by reducing acidity of postoperative reflux, parietal cell vagotomy may complement nonresectional surgical results for barrett stricture.
molecular analysis of acute promyelocytic leukemia breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 17. acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl; fab m3) is characterized by a predominance of malignant promyelocytes that carry a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17, t(15;17) (q22;q11.2-q12). this translocation has become diagnostic for apl, as it is present in almost 100 percent of cases. a not i linking clone was used to detect this translocation initially on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and subsequently with conventional southern (dna) analysis. the breakpoints in ten apl cases examined were shown to cluster in a 12-kb region of chromosome 17, containing two cpg-rich islands. the region is the first intron of the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene (rara).
chondrosarcoma of the larynx. diagnosis with magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography. chondrosarcomas are the most common sarcomas of the larynx. they are generally slow-growing lesions with insidious onset of symptoms. we are presenting a case of chondrosarcoma that recurred 10 years after excision of a presumed chondroma. computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans were performed. both studies delineated the lesion nicely. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on mri characteristics of chondrosarcoma of the larynx. a review of the literature regarding the use of computed tomography in the management of chondrosarcoma is presented. the mri characteristics are discussed and the two scanning modalities are compared. computed tomography is an excellent study in its ability to demonstrate the extent of the lesion within the laryngeal skeleton. furthermore, it is more highly sensitive than plain roentgenograms in the detection of calcifications that are highly suggestive of chondrosarcoma. alternatively, mri can also demonstrate the lesion within the larynx but it has the added advantage of superior contrast resolution of the tumor and paralaryngeal tissues. when the three-dimensional imaging capacity of mri is considered as well, mri seems to be the superior study.
chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome after the treatment of head and neck cancer. a case report. a 62-year-old woman who was being treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck developed a chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome during the second cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin, bleomycin, and methotrexate. though the syndrome was suspected early, attempts at reversing the hematologic and renal abnormalities were unsuccessful. at postmortem examination, the characteristic microvascular lesions of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were found in the kidneys.
restoration by insulin of impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity of platelets in acute ischemic heart disease. treatment of normal platelet-rich plasma with a physiological amount of insulin (100 microunits/ml, optimum concentration) for 3 hours at 23 degrees c stimulated the binding of prostaglandin e1 by more than twofold (3,940 +/- 250 sites/10(8) platelets) compared with the nontreated, control platelet-rich plasma (1,590 +/- 265 sites/10(8) platelets). after platelet-rich plasma from patients with acute ischemic heart disease (n = 43), whose platelets showed impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity (850 +/- 100 sites/10(8) platelets), was incubated with insulin (optimum amounts varied from 100 to 200 microunits/ml), the binding of the prostanoid was restored to normal levels (1,790 +/- 140 sites/10(8) platelets) in 75% of the cases. twenty-five percent of the patients did not respond to the stimulatory effect of insulin. the increased binding of the prostanoid to the insulin-treated platelets also resulted in increased cyclic amp levels both in normal subjects (44.14 +/- 3.1 pmol/10(8) [insulin-treated] platelets versus 16.35 +/- 2.91 pmol/10(8) [control] platelets) and in patients with acute ischemic heart disease (23.87 +/- 4.1 pmol/10(8) [insulin-treated] platelets versus 7.70 +/- 2.0 pmol/10(8) [control] platelets) by the prostanoid (1.0 microm). the treatment of platelet-rich plasma with the hormone decreased the minimum inhibitory concentration of the prostanoid from 34 +/- 14 to 15 +/- 9 nm (p less than 0.001) in the case of normal volunteers and from 49 +/- 15 to 32 +/- 11 nm (p = 0.002) in the case of "responder" patients. insulin did not produce any effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation by the prostaglandin in "nonresponder" patients. in the follow-up study, although the stimulatory effects of insulin on platelets from responder patients were improved to normal levels, the platelets from the nonresponder patients remained persistently unresponsive to the effect of the hormone.
underlying illness associated with failure to thrive in breastfed infants. over a four-year period in a suburban pediatric practice, 38 infants aged six months or less were identified with failure to thrive (ftt) while breast-feeding. in seven cases (18.4%), an associated organic illness was diagnosed. only 2 of 28 breast-fed neonates (8%) were found to have ftt associated with another illness, as compared to 5 of 10 older infants (50%). breast-fed infants with ftt, particularly those presenting after the first month of life, should be considered high risk for having other disease. their clinical evaluation should include an appropriate search for organic illnesses.
remote effect of deep-seated vascular brain lesions on cerebral blood flow. we measured regional cerebral blood flow using the xenon-133 inhalation method, at approximately 1 month after onset, in 60 stroke patients who had no evidence of major carotid artery stenosis or occlusion. their single lesions (43 infarcts and 17 hematomas) were located in the capsulothalamolenticular region, sparing the cortex. hemispheric mean cerebral blood flow was reduced on the side of the lesion in 25 patients and on both sides in 20. regional hypoperfusion was observed in 46 patients (ipsilaterally in 34, bilaterally in 10, and contralaterally in two). regional hypoperfusion was observed most frequently in the frontal lobe, particularly in the motor and premotor cortices of the prerolandic area. the 46 patients with regional hypoperfusion were compared with the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion, considering the size and location of the lesion as well as the functional and analytic motor performances. as a rule, the lesion was slightly smaller and more posterior and the functional (p less than 0.001) and analytic (p less than 0.05) motor performances were significantly better in the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion. since the xenon-133 inhalation method examines cortical blood flow, we can attribute blood flow reductions resulting from deep-seated lesions to a functional depression akin to diaschisis. interpretation of the clinical consequences and pathogenesis of this phenomenon requires further sequential and pathologic studies.
early diastolic clicks after the fontan procedure for double inlet left ventricle: anatomical and physiological correlates. m mode echocardiograms and simultaneous phonocardiograms were recorded in four patients with early diastolic clicks on auscultation. all had double inlet left ventricle and had undergone the fontan procedure with closure of the right atrioventricular valve orifice by an artificial patch. the phonocardiogram confirmed a high frequency sound occurring 60-90 ms after aortic valve closure and coinciding with the time of maximal excursion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass. one patient had coexisting congenital complete heart block. the m mode echocardiogram showed "reversed" motion of the patch towards the right atrium during atrial contraction. doppler flow studies showed that coincident with this motion there was forward flow in the pulmonary artery with augmentation when atrial contraction coincided with ventricular systole. the early diastolic click in these patients was explained by abrupt cessation of the motion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass in early diastole. in one patient atrial contraction led to a reversal of this motion and was associated with forward flow in the pulmonary artery.
in situ hybridization for the detection of epstein-barr virus in central nervous system lymphomas. epstein-barr virus (ebv) has been implicated in the development of lymphomas in immunocompromised patients. to test this hypothesis, 26 lymphomas involving the central nervous system (cns) (11 primary, 15 systemic) were studied for the presence of ebv. in situ hybridization (ish) was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue using a sulfur 35 (35s)-labeled ebv probe (ebv bamh1-w). the results were interpreted without knowledge of the patients' immunologic status. the ebv sequences were detected in 11 lymphomas, nine of which were mixed or large cell subtypes. review of the clinical information revealed that nine of the 26 lymphomas occurred in immunocompromised patients secondary to renal transplantation, human immunodeficiency virus infection, leukemia, and wiskott-aldrich syndrome. the ebv sequences were detected in all nine lymphomas occurring in immunocompromised patients, whereas two of the 17 lymphomas occurring in immunocompetent patients expressed ebv sequences. the authors conclude that the presence of ebv sequences in cns lymphomas is highly correlated with a history of compromised immune status supporting a pathogenetic role of ebv in the development of cns lymphomas in immunocompromised patients.
recovery from disturbed colonic transit time after alcohol withdrawal. the effects of alcohol withdrawal on total and segmental transit time were evaluated in 20 chronic alcoholic subjects. after withdrawal, colorectal transit time significantly increased from 24.9 +/- 3.6 to 33.3 +/- 4.5 hours mean +/- se (p less than 0.01). this was the result of an exclusive increase in rectosigmoid transit time from 2.8 +/- 0.7 to 9.8 +/- 2.1 hours (p less than 0.001). no variations were found in right or left colon transit time. distal colonic motility is thus a crucial factor in the genesis of diarrhea in chronic alcoholic subjects.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xviii. reperfusion conditions: attenuation of the regional ischemic effect by temporary total vented bypass before controlled reperfusion. this study tests the hypothesis that total vented bypass can attenuate the regional ischemic effect during a defined time interval before controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion. thirty-three dogs underwent 2 or 4 hours of occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and then received a regional blood cardioplegic reperfusate on total vented bypass. cardiopulmonary bypass and reperfusion were started after 2 hours of ischemia in eight dogs, and after 4 hours of ischemia in 25 others. among the 25 dogs, seven had total vented bypass started after the first 2 hours of the 4 hours of regional ischemia. segmental shortening (ultrasonic crystals), tissue water content (wet/dry weight), and histochemical damage (triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain) were assessed 2 hours after reperfusion. dogs reperfused after 2 hours of ischemia recovered 73% +/- 8% of control systolic shortening and sustained only 11% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining. dogs undergoing 4 hours of regional ischemia, but with total vented bypass 2 hours before reperfusion had improved recovery of systolic shortening (49% versus 31%, p less than 0.05), limited epicardial edema (79.6% versus 81.1% water content, p less than 0.05), and reduced histochemical damage (24% versus 39% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining, p less than 0.05). these findings imply that institution of total vented bypass during ischemia attenuates the infarct process, increases regional recovery of contractility, limits edema and restricts histochemical damage, and may be a useful adjunct to myocardial salvage when controlled reperfusion can be provided.
excipients in valproic acid syrup may cause diarrhea: a case report. a 5-year-old child receiving valproic acid syrup for seizure control developed diarrhea probably from the excipient ingredients. each 5 ml of valproic acid syrup contains sucrose 3 g, glycerin 0.75 g, and sorbitol 0.75 g, providing daily amounts of 36, 9, and 9 g of sucrose, glycerin, and sorbitol, respectively. the diarrhea resolved when the child was switched to another valproic acid product. clinicians should be aware of potential problems that may occur from excipient ingredients in pharmaceutical products when evaluating adverse effects of medications.
a prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis. pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis. however, it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis, how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected, and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means. in 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 (20%), as documented by dynamic pancreatography, and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28. all patients were prospectively treated by medical means. patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture. infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients (71%) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage, yielding a mortality rate of 15%. all 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis, including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency, were successfully treated without surgery. pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20% of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection. however, pancreatic necrosis by itself, even when accompanied by organ failure, is not an absolute indication for surgery. a trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order.
comparison of a new immunoassay for determining serum pancreatic isoamylase with two standard techniques. a method has recently been developed for measuring serum pancreatic (p) isoamylase, using two monoclonal antibodies specific for salivary isoamylase. we performed this test on 67 healthy controls and 133 patients: 15 with acute pancreatitis, 53 with chronic pancreatitis (20 during painful relapse and 33 in clinical remission), 18 with pancreatic cancer, 41 with nonpancreatic disease with abdominal pain, five with macroamylasemia, and one with total pancreatectomy. results were compared with those of a wheat germ inhibition method and with electrophoresis on cellulose acetate. a close correlation was found between the results of immunoinhibition assay and those of the other two tests. all patients with acute pancreatitis had abnormally high values in all three tests. in the group with chronic pancreatitis studied during painful relapse, 16 had an increase in p-isoamylase, as determined with the immunoinhibition assay, 13 with the wheat germ inhibition test, and 15 with electrophoresis. in the group with chronic pancreatitis in clinical remission, we found low values in one patient, by immunoinhibition assay, but found low values in 17 and 19 patients by wheat germ inhibition and electrophoresis, respectively. low p-isoamylase values corresponded to a severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. in the group with pancreatic cancer, the three tests showed similar results, and the majority of the patients had normal values. in the patients with nonpancreatic diseases, abnormally high levels were found in five, by immunoassay, in four by electrophoresis, and in three by the wheat germ inhibition method. in the five cases with macroamylasemia, both inhibition assays erroneously demonstrated an abnormal p-isoamylase elevation. the results show that the three tests are equally useful for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, or chronic pancreatitis during an acute relapse. in these diseases, the immunoinhibition test would be the preferred assay because it is simple and rapidly performed.
platelet thromboxane release and delayed cerebral ischemia in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane b2 release were studied in 52 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) in order to detect a possible association between altered platelet function and development of cerebral ischemic complications after sah. compared to the values on admission, the patients showed significantly increased platelet aggregability (p less than 0.05) and thromboxane release (p less than 0.001) 1 to 2 weeks after sah. the highest values of thromboxane release were seen in patients who deteriorated due to delayed cerebral ischemia with a permanent neurological deficit. thromboxane release was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) before the onset of severe delayed ischemia in six patients with preoperative ischemia compared to the patients without delayed ischemia. in five others, both ischemic deterioration and elevated thromboxane release occurred after operation. these patients had preoperative values similar to the values in those without ischemic symptoms. the observations suggest that increased platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are associated with delayed cerebral ischemia both before and after surgery.
diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography. the presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations. this flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood. we demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations. the mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds, with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations. the presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia. therefore, the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value. however, our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation, namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation.
mini-mental state exam scores vary with education in blacks and whites. previous studies have suggested that education and race may affect performance on standardized mental status tests. in order to more clearly define these relationships, a prospective longitudinal study was devised to answer two questions: (1) whether race or level of education affects scores on the mini-mental state (mms) exam in non-demented people and (2) what numerical cutpoints maximize the sensitivity and specificity of utilizing the mms to help diagnose dementia in blacks of varying educational attainment. a total of 100 white and 258 black individuals, recruited from two city hospital primary care geriatric clinics, were evaluated and subsequently followed longitudinally over a 2 1/2 year period in order to assess accurately the presence or absence of dementia. in the non-demented, total mms scores and performance on each item of the mms were analyzed, revealing that people with an 8th grade or less education consistently had significantly (p less than .01) worse results than the better educated (9th grade or better) on borough, attention items, recall of table and dog, copying, sentence writing, phrase repeating, and total score. furthermore, a total of 25% of the lower education group had an mms score in the 18-23 range, traditionally thought to suggest dementia. there were no consistently significant differences between blacks and whites of equal education. in the better educated groups, using a score of 23 or less to define dementia maximizes the sensitivity and specificity of using the mms in this diagnosis at 93% and 100%, respectively. in the lower education group, using 17 or less to define dementia maximizes sensitivity and specificity at 81% and 100%, respectively.
epidermal nevus syndrome: a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly, gyral malformation, mental retardation, seizures, and facial hemihypertrophy. the epidermal nevus syndrome (ens) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems. from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations, we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies. associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12, mental retardation in 13 of 14, seizures in 16 of 17 (including 9 with infantile spasms), and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12. all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head, and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy. we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement. several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts, atrophy, porencephaly, and calcifications, which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage. given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients, we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions. the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly. while the cause of ens remains unknown, several observations suggest a somatic mutation.
interleukin-8 production in red blood cell incompatibility. hemolytic transfusion reactions (htr) are characterized by fever, shock, organ system failure, intravascular coagulation, and possibly death. the same findings may be associated with sepsis. neutrophils have been implicated in the pathogenesis of htr, although a mechanism for neutrophil activation has not been shown. in addition, the possible role that cytokines may play in htr has not been investigated. we show that interleukin-8 (il-8), a cytokine with chemotactic and neutrophil-activation properties, is produced in whole blood following addition of abo-incompatible red blood cells, in a dose- and time-dependent manner related to the degree of hemolysis, and is inhibited by inactivation of complement. il-8 production is accompanied by increased gene expression in the buffy coat. this observation has implications for the understanding of the pathogenesis of and for the treatment of htr.
t cell subsets (tc, th, ts, tsi) and il2 receptor-bearing cells in peripheral blood of patients in the acute phase of alcoholic hepatitis. the present study was designed to evaluate the proportion of t cell subsets and il2 receptor positive cells in the peripheral blood of patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis (aah) using monoclonal antibodies to t cell antigens and tac in a double immunofluorescent technique. the results indicate that the percentage of the total t cells and the intensity of all the t cell antigens are significantly reduced and the percentage of t helper cells and the ratio between th/ts cells are significantly increased in aah when compared to healthy controls. but, significant differences in values observed in this study were not found for the absolute number of these cells. these altered values returned to normal levels during convalescence.
dysphagia as a manifestation of occult hypoxemia. the role of oximetry during meal times. a 25-year-old woman with severe kyphoscoliosis reported a six-month history of increasing dysphagia to both liquids and solids. a barium swallow and esophageal motility studies showed no significant gastrointestinal abnormalities. trials of antispasmodic agents were unsuccessful in relieving her symptoms. pulmonary function tests showed a severe restrictive ventilatory defect (vital capacity = 0.67 l) with adequate oxygenation and alveolar ventilation as reflected by arterial blood gas testing during quiet wakefulness. however, continuous noninvasive oximetry demonstrated desaturation to 85 percent while eating. these transient episodes of desaturation were abolished by the administration of supplemental oxygen delivered by nasal prongs. following the prescription of supplemental oxygen, dysphagia resolved immediately, with weight gain following over several weeks. we conclude that dysphagia may be a presenting feature of hypoxemia. this case report draws attention to the usefulness of continuous noninvasive monitoring of oxygenation and the clinical importance of at least some transient hypoxemic events.
giardia lamblia infestation reveals underlying whipple's disease in a patient with longstanding constipation. whipple's disease is an uncommon disorder, generally associated with gastrointestinal symptoms; of these, diarrhea is a common feature. we report a case of whipple's disease associated with chronic constipation which was not diagnosed until after giardia lamblia infestation had caused diarrhea. to the best of our knowledge this association has not previously been reported. the clinical, laboratory, endoscopic, and manometric aspects are described and discussed.
the use of in situ hybridization to show human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid in metastatic cancer cells within lymph nodes. southern blot hybridization has been used to identify human papillomavirus types in both primary tumors and lymph node metastases. however, this technique requires fresh-frozen tissue and is incapable of localizing deoxyribonucleic acid sequences to specific cell types in the tumor sample. in contrast, in situ hybridization precisely locates viral sequences within tumor cells while preserving cellular architecture. further, in situ hybridization requires only small samples of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues. five lymph nodes (from four patients) containing metastatic cervical squamous tumor cells (identified with hematoxylin and eosinophil staining) were analyzed with in situ hybridization techniques with human papillomavirus type 16 deoxyribonucleic acid probes labeled with sulfur 35. the primary cervical cancer from all four patients had been shown to contain human papillomavirus type 16 sequences by southern blot. three specimens from two patients clearly showed the presence of human papillomavirus type 16 sequences within the nuclei of metastatic tumor cells, whereas two specimens were nondiagnostic most likely as a result of the small volume of cancer relative to the size of the lymph node. this information indicates that it is the tumor cells themselves that contain viral deoxyribonucleic acid and provides additional evidence linking human papillomavirus with cervical carcinogenesis.
chylous ascites should suggest constrictive pericarditis even in a patient with cirrhosis. chylous ascites, a milky, high triglyceride fluid is usually found in patients with lymphatic obstruction from malignancy. we describe a patient with cirrhosis who developed constrictive pericarditis and chylous ascites. long-standing portal hypertension compounded by elevated central venous pressure provided several pathophysiologic contributions to the formation of the chylous ascites. chylous ascites even in a cirrhotic requires prompt assessment for conditions leading to elevated central venous pressure.
effect of severe pulmonary hypertension on the calculation of mitral valve area in patients with mitral stenosis. we studied 50 consecutive patients with mitral valve stenosis (ms) by cardiac catheterization and doppler echocardiography to assess whether the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension affected the calculation of valve area by doppler pressure half-time method and by the gorlin formula using pulmonary capillary wedge pressure as an index of left atrial pressure. patients with severe mitral regurgitation were excluded. in patients with pulmonary artery systolic pressure (pas) less than 70 mm hg (n = 33), there was good correlation between the mitral valve area derived from doppler echocardiography and from cardiac catheterization (r = 0.85). however, in patients with pas greater than or equal to 70 mm hg (n = 17), this correlation was not as good (r = 0.57). in these 17 patients, the gorlin formula tended to underestimate the valve orifice area (mean valve area 0.85 +/- 0.49 and 1.06 +/- 0.46 cm2 by catheterization and by doppler respectively, p = ns). direct measurement of the valve area by two-dimensional echocardiography was possible in 12 of the 17 patients and correlated well with doppler values (r = 0.91). hence in the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension, doppler pressure half-time estimation of mitral valve area is more accurate than is catheterization-derived valve area, using the wedge pressure and the gorlin formula.
comparison of characteristics of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma associated with head and neck cancer and those with gastric cancer. in ongoing reviews of 339 patients with surgically treated primary squamous cell carcinoma, there were 19 (5.6%) with concurrent gastric cancer and 11 (3.2%) with head and neck cancer. the incidences of intra-esophageal multiple occurrence of esophageal cancer are 27.3% and 26.3% in those with associated head and neck cancer and gastric cancer, respectively, and higher than 7.1% in those without such a concurrent cancer. there was no difference in the clinicopathological characteristics of those with concurrent head and neck and gastric cancers, except for the higher incidence of metachronous occurrence in the former. these findings suggest that, in cases of esophageal cancer associated with concurrent head and neck cancer and gastric cancer, intraesophageal multiplicity of the esophageal carcinoma is frequent and that preoperative serial evaluations is most important to design treatment and estimate the prognosis.
recovery of cd3+ and cd5- lymphocyte subpopulation after autologous bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy. although most circulating t cells in normal subjects express both cd3 and cd5 antigens on the cell surface, a small number lack the cd5 antigen. recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplants develop increased numbers of cd3+ cd5- cells, particularly those who develop graft versus host disease (gvhd). this cd3+ cd5- population may rise transiently in patients who have received an autologous bone marrow transplant (bmt) and in patients following completion of intensive chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukaemia (aml). these findings suggest that these cd3+ cd5- cells are a normal component of the regenerating lymphoid system after bmt or chemotherapy.
long-term results of operation for non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly. we surgically treated 185 patients with non-small cell lung cancer who were 70 years old or older. the operative mortality rate was 3%, and the 5-year survival rate was 48%. the mortality and prognosis were similar to those in younger patients. the number of elderly patients who smoked heavily or who had ventilatory defects was high, but the incidence of pneumonectomy was low. there were no differences based on age in regard to histological type, tnm classification, and curability. pulmonary complications occurred in 21% of the elderly patients and were correlated with preoperative pulmonary function and smoking habits. when the elderly are to undergo elective pulmonary resection for lung cancer, the preoperative evaluation of pulmonary function should be thorough, and both preoperative and postoperative physical therapy should be given. if postoperative pulmonary function is predicted to be less than 0.8 l/m2 of vital capacity and 0.6 l/m2 of forced expiratory volume in 1 second, a limited resection or nonsurgical therapy should be considered.
subacute necrotizing sialadenitis. twelve cases of a heretofore unreported minor salivary gland disease have been reported. although an infectious cause is suspected for this self-limiting inflammatory process, the actual cause remains unknown. it typically presents as a unilateral, erythematous, nonuclerated but painful, solitary firm swelling of the posterior hard palate. patients are most often young white men who have spent several weeks in a new environment with a group of people living in close quarters such as military barracks.
effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats. the purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrsp). treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril (45 mg/kg/day), an angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor, or with hydralazine (18 mg/kg/day). cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure (from 195 +/- 8 to 125 +/- 5 and 148 +/- 3 mm hg, respectively [mean +/- sem]; p less than 0.05). to examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles, we measured pressure (servonull), external diameter, and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall (histologically) in pial arterioles of normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky) rats and shrsp that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine. arterioles were maximally dilated with edta. in wky rats, cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure, external diameter, or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall. in shrsp, both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from wky rats (from 1,911 +/- 155 to 1,244 +/- 101 and 1,388 +/- 59 microns 2, respectively, compared with 1,405 +/- 95 microns 2 for untreated wky rats). cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure (from 110 +/- 6 to 62 +/- 2 mm hg with cilazapril versus 79 +/- 5 mm hg for hydralazine compared with 60 +/- 4 mm hg for untreated wky rats). cilazapril, but not hydralazine, attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles (from 91 +/- 4 to 100 +/- 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 +/- 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 +/- 3 microns for untreated wky rats).
a giant renal artery aneurysm diagnosed post partum. we report a case of a 5.8 cm. right renal artery aneurysm diagnosed intact 8 weeks post partum. rupture of a renal arterial aneurysm during pregnancy is a rare but well described catastrophic event. there are no previous reports of an intact renal artery aneurysm diagnosed either ante partum or post partum. to our knowledge, this also represents the largest reported renal artery aneurysm. the aneurysm was repaired successfully with kidney salvage and closure of the fistulous connection to the renal vein.
in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy of human uveal melanomas and other intraocular tumors. we studied the feasibility of using the surface coil probe technique for the noninvasive in vivo study of ocular tumors by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy. the characteristic organophosphate metabolites of suspected uveal melanomas before proton beam irradiation were determined qualitatively by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy in vivo using a three-turn surface coil. spectra of choroidal hemangioma, osteoma, and metastasis were also obtained in vivo and compared with those of uveal melanomas. analysis of spectra performed at 1.5 t showed significant peaks of phosphomonoesters, inorganic phosphate, phosphodiesters, phosphocreatine, and adenosine 5'-triphosphates. the unusually high concentration of phosphodiesters may be considered as a marker for uveal melanomas and other choroidal tumors. by analyzing the ratio of phosphocreatine to phosphodiesters spectral area values, we interpreted qualitatively spectra of intraocular tumors to differentiate malignant tumors from benign lesions. nevertheless, the main limitation of interpreting the spectra was their contamination by signals from surrounding tissues.
the molecular biology of acute myeloid leukemia. proto-oncogene expression and function in normal and neoplastic myeloid cells. proto-oncogenes and suppressor genes fall into four functional groups: growth factors, growth factor and hormone receptors, signal transducers, and transcriptional regulatory factors. many of these genes are selectively expressed in myeloid cells and may play a role in normal development of the myeloid lineages. furthermore, chromosomal rearrangements, deletions, and mutations may disrupt the normal expression or function of these genes, promoting mpd and leukemogenesis. many of the genes altered by karyotypic abnormalities in myeloid disorders are only beginning to be identified. future studies undoubtedly will determine the molecular mechanisms whereby these genes, residing at karyotypic breakpoints in myeloid disorders, promote neoplastic transformation of myeloid cells.
dna image cytometry. a prognostic tool in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus? in 45 patients who underwent an esophagus resection due to a squamous cell carcinoma, in addition to the tnm classification and usual morphologic criteria, the paraffin-embedded material underwent deparaffinization, was rehydrated, and was mechanically and enzymatically processed into a single-cell solution. for evaluating the dna histogram this was analyzed with the help of automatic single-cell cytophotometric study. the method, contrary to that of flow cytometric study, allows for the selective analysis of tumor cells due to the electronically, previously given selection criteria, whereas artifacts, stroma, and infection cells remain excluded from analysis. the multivariate analysis shows that the prognosis is only correlated with dna content of the tumor cells. patients with diploid tumors had a median survival time of 32 months as compared with the 22 months of patients with hypotriploid tumors, and 6.5 months with hypertriploid tumors. dna cytometric analysis should be included when diagnosing patients with esophagus carcinoma.
a modified rhombic transposition flap and its application in dermatology. a modified rhombic transposition flap based around a circular primary defect is described. we have found it to be a versatile design that produces good cosmetic results with a low incidence of postoperative complications. it has become the most frequently used transposition flap in our dermatologic practice.
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms: ii. acinic cell carcinomas. acinic cell carcinomas display varied cytoarchitectural patterns of growth that should allow for formulation of histopathologic grading. grading of these carcinomas may serve to identify subsets whose biologic behavior is more aggressive than the usually accepted low-grade behavior of acinic cell carcinomas as a group. to that end, a three-level histopathologic grading scheme is presented.
the role of the chest roentgenogram in febrile neutropenic patients. in a retrospective review of patients with neutropenia and fever, we sought to determine how often roentgenograms detected pulmonary disease, especially pneumonia, not suggested by signs and symptoms. further, we sought to determine how often therapy was changed as a result of roentgenographic findings. overall, 41 (22%) of 187 chest roentgenograms obtained during initial febrile episodes, recurrent fevers, or persistent fevers were abnormal. while most patients had signs and symptoms suggesting the presence of pulmonary disease, 17% had roentgenographic abnormalities detected in the absence of such findings. during initial febrile episodes, therapy was not changed in response to findings on the chest roentgenogram. however, during episodes of persistent or recurrent fever, findings on chest roentgenograms led to changes in therapy in eight (61%) of 13 episodes of which six (40%) resulted in clinical improvement. chest roentgenograms were therefore found to be an important diagnostic tool in evaluating recurrent or persistent fever in the neutropenic patient but of little use during initial febrile episodes.
chronic musculoskeletal pain and depressive symptoms in the general population. an analysis of the 1st national health and nutrition examination survey data. chronic pain and depression frequently occur together. a selection bias afflicts all hospital clinic and family practice populations in which this relationship has been examined. we report here some of the results from civilian populations outside institutions, examined in the united states in national surveys. the findings are based upon the recollection of individuals with respect to the period of 12 months prior to interview and upon the occurrence of depression in the previous week as indicated by the answers to the depression scale of the centre for epidemiologic studies (ces-d). they indicate that 14.4% of the united states population between the ages of 25-74 suffer from definite chronic pain related to the joints and musculoskeletal system. another 7.4% have some pain of uncertain duration. eighty-three percent of the definite pain group received treatment. chronic pain subjects scored significantly higher than normals on the ces-d (10.68 +/- s.e.m. 0.76 vs. 8.05 +/- 0.23, p less than 0.01) with subjects with pain of uncertain duration scoring similar to the definite chronic pain population (11.13 +/- 0.76). using a high cut-off score for depression. 18% of the population with chronic pain were found to have depression. this is in contrast to 8% of the population who did not have chronic pain.
rice-based oral electrolyte solutions for the management of infantile diarrhea background. in infants the treatment of acute diarrhea with glucose-based solutions results in rehydration but does not reduce the severity of diarrhea. oral rehydration with solutions based on rice powder may reduce stool output as well as restore fluid volume. methods. we designed a prospective, randomized, double-blind study to evaluate the efficacy of two rice-based rehydration solutions and a conventional glucose-based solution. solution a contained only rice-syrup solids, solution b contained rice-syrup solids and casein hydrolysate, and solution c, the glucose-based solution, served as control. the study subjects were 86 mildly to moderately dehydrated infant boys, 3 to 18 months old, who were admitted to a children's hospital with acute diarrhea. we measured fluid intake, fecal and urine output, and absorption and retention of fluid, sodium, and potassium at intervals for 48 hours in all 86 infants. results. the mean (+/- se) fecal output was significantly lower in the infants given solution a (group a infants) than in the infants given solution c (group c) (29 +/- 4 vs. 46 +/- 7 ml per kilogram of body weight, p less than 0.05) during the first six hours of therapy. the infants in group a also had greater fluid absorption (221 +/- 16 vs. 167 +/- 9 ml per kilogram, p less than 0.05) over the entire 48 hours of therapy and greater potassium absorption (1.6 +/- 0.2 vs. 0.6 +/- 0.1 mmol per kilogram, p less than 0.05) during the first six hours than the infants in group c. solution b offered no advantages over solution a. conclusions. solutions containing rice-syrup solids were effective in the rehydration of infants with acute diarrhea. they decreased stool output and promoted greater absorption and retention of fluid and electrolytes than did a glucose-based solution.
significance of blasts in low-cell-count cerebrospinal fluid specimens from children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the purpose of this study was to determine whether the presence of more than 5% blasts in a differential count of cytocentrifuged cerebrospinal fluid (csf) with less than 6 leukocytes/microliter was predictive of central nervous system (cns) relapse in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). a double concentrate method of cytocentrifuge preparation was used to analyze 4543 consecutive csf specimens from 349 children with all between january 1, 1982, and september 30, 1988. one hundred nine csf specimens from 58 evaluable children had less than 6 leukocytes/microliter and more than 5% blasts on cytocentrifuge differential count (low-cell-count specimen with blasts [lcb]). during the study period, 25 of 332 evaluable children (7.5%) had cns leukemic recurrence. in 22 of 25 (88%), the cns relapse was preceded by at least one abnormal low-cell-count csf specimen. one of 34 patients with a single lcb at diagnosis (3%) had subsequent cns relapse compared with five of eight patients (62.5%) with a single lcb during remission (p = 0.0002). of 16 children with two or more lcb during remission, nine (56%) had cns relapse defined by standard criteria, whereas six additional patients in this group were declared to be in cns relapse on the basis of their repetitive lcb. whether diagnosing cns recurrence earlier in its course based on a modification of the definition of cns leukemia will change the frequency of subsequent adverse events or make possible decreased intensity of cns retreatment remains to be determined.
unique features of helicobacter pylori disease in children. in a six-year period, 41 children had endoscopically documented duodenal ulcer disease or primary h. pylori antral gastritis without duodenal ulcer. of 37 children with h. pylori gastritis, group 1 comprised 23 patients with duodenal ulcer disease and group 2 had 14 patients without ulcers (primary h. pylori gastritis). group 3 comprised four children with duodenal ulcer disease and h. pylori-negative antral biopsies. during the study period, all primary chronic ulcer disease was duodenal; no primary chronic gastric ulcer was present. two distinct types of duodenal ulcer disease were identified; the majority (85%) was always associated with significant active h. pylori antral gastritis (group 1). the minority (15%) had virtually absent gastritis and no h. pylori (group 3). native indian children were represented in group 1 quite out of proportion to the referral population and had the most severe disease. while it is established that a higher prevalence of asymptomatic h. pylori infection exists in non-caucasians, this appears to be the first demonstration of a higher prevalence of symptomatic ulcer disease in non-caucasian children or adults. caucasian children tended to have primary h. pylori gastritis (group 2) or duodenal ulcer without h. pylori (group 3). antral nodularity was found to be an important specific endoscopic sign, unique to those children with h. pylori disease. it has not been described in adult h. pylori disease. non-caucasian children, especially native indians, in british columbia have more prevalent and more severe h. pylori disease than caucasians. endoscopy with gastric antral biopsies is necessary to distinguish different types of duodenal ulcer disease and to diagnose primary h. pylori gastritis.
a human cd5+ b cell clone that secretes an idiotype-specific high affinity igm monoclonal antibody. we previously demonstrated the occurrence of a naturally arisen human anti-idiotypic b cell clone, that we transformed with ebv (ebv383). we show evidence that ebv383 not only expresses the cd5 surface ag, but also contains the 2.7-kb mrna transcript encoding this protein. in addition, we show the presence of the 3.6-kb mrna precursor. most ig produced by cd5+ b cells are polyreactive natural igm antibodies encoded by unmutated copies of germline vh genes. however, in this study we present data demonstrating the monoreactive high affinity character of the anti-idiotypic antibody (mab383) produced by ebv383. these data are in agreement with our previous observations, showing that the vh chain of mab383 is encoded by an extensive somatically mutated vhv gene in a way that is consistent with an ag-driven immune response. a possible role for this remarkable anti-idiotypic antibody in the maintenance of b cell memory is discussed.
asymptomatic periapical radiolucent lesion found in an area of previous trauma [published erratum appears in j am dent assoc 1991 feb;122(2):18] the case of an anterior mandibular radiolucent area, which unexpectedly yielded salivary gland tissue, is described. salivary gland depressions in the posterior mandible are readily recognized because of their almost pathognomonic radiographic appearance. a salivary gland inclusion in the anterior mandible in the proximity of teeth may create a diagnostic dilemma where superimposed periapical pathosis is present. the clinical importance lies in the recognition and appropriate treatment of the lesion. for the anterior salivary gland inclusion, a biopsy and a microscopic examination provide the most reliable diagnosis.
how district health authorities organise cervical screening [published erratum appears in bmj 1990 nov 24;301(6762):1209] objectives--to examine how district health authorities organised cervical screening with respect to department of health guidelines and to determine their assessment of the problems encountered. design--postal questionnaire sent to all 190 district health authorities in england in 1989. participants--190 district health authorities in england. main outcome measures--population coverage of screening, quality of smear testing, and follow up of abdominal test results in comparison with national guidelines for district cervical screening services, and problems encountered by districts. results--replies were received from 178 (94%) of districts, in 143 of which the person named as responsible for cervical screening contributed. all districts implemented a computer managed scheme, 150 by the target date of 31 march 1988, but not all of these conformed with the guidelines. at the time of the survey only just over half called women in the target age group of 20-64 and only 70% expected to meet the target date of 13 march 1993 for completing the call. considerable variation was evident among the schemes with regard to how they dealt with issues related to population coverage, quality of testing, and follow up of abnormal results. the problems most commonly identified by the districts (n = 174) were laboratory workload (107, 61%), computer software (104, 60%), availability of resources (78, 45%), non-attendance (77, 44%), rate of opportunistic screening (62, 36%), and investigation and treatment (60, 34%). conclusions--current practice in running cervical screening schemes needs to be examined to determine the extent to which it contributes to the goal of reducing mortality from cervical cancer.
hydrocephalus: overdrainage by ventricular shunts. a review and recommendations. selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma, craniosynostosis, slit ventricle syndrome, and low intracranial pressure syndrome. these occur sequentially at different age groups, but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10%-12% for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting. the basic etiology, diagnosis, and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed, including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control. included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus.
seronegative juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and mast cell-associated gastritis. we describe 4 children with seronegative inflammatory arthritis who had persistent, severe nausea and abdominal pain over several months, in spite of vigorous medical therapy, including antacids and histamine h2 receptor antagonists. endoscopy and biopsy of gastric and duodenal mucosa showed antral gastritis and an increased number of mast cells in 3 of the 4 patients. in the fourth patient, urinary histamine levels were elevated. these findings suggest an association between inflammatory arthritis and localized mast cell disease in some individuals. further studies are needed to determine whether this association represents an independent syndrome or whether mast cell-related disease is secondary to long-term treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in children with mild arthritis.
epithelial cells immortalized by human papillomaviruses have premalignant characteristics in organotypic culture. three hpv-16--and four hpv-18--immortalized human foreskin keratinocyte cell lines were analyzed on organotypic epidermal raft cultures at various passage levels. this culture system allowed normal cultured keratinocytes to stratify and differentiate in a manner similar to normal epidermis. all seven hpv-immortalized cell lines displayed epidermal morphologies on organotypic cultures, which were clearly abnormal and resembled premalignant lesions in vivo. features of premalignant lesions that were shared by all of the hpv-immortalized cell lines included disorganized tissue architecture, mitotic cells present throughout the living layers of the epidermal sheet, abnormal mitoses, enlarged nuclei, and variable cell size and shape. most hpv-immortalized cell lines were stable in terms of epidermal morphology with long-term passage in culture. two of the hpv-18--immortalized cell lines, however, lost all morphologically apparent terminal squamous differentiation potential after long-term passage in monolayer culture. these results strongly support the idea that immortalization of squamous epithelial cells in culture by hpv-transforming genes generates a morphologically premalignant cell.
dioxin-inducible, ah receptor-dependent transcription in vitro. we have developed a homologous in vitro transcription system that requires (i) 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (called tcdd or dioxin), (ii) the ah receptor, and (iii) a dioxin-responsive enhancer for activity. unfractionated nuclear extracts from mouse hepatoma cells contain an inhibitor and fail to direct transcription in vitro. however, following phosphocellulose chromatography and reconstitution, the fractionated nuclear extract directs accurate transcription in vitro, using as a template the promoter/enhancer region from the mouse cytochrome p1-450 gene (cyp1a1) linked to a "g-free cassette" (which generates a transcript with no guanosine residues). extracts from tcdd-treated cells exhibit higher activity than extracts from untreated cells when transcribing a template containing both the promoter and enhancer but not when transcribing a template containing the promoter alone. extracts from ah receptor-defective cells fail to direct in vitro transcription in a tcdd-inducible fashion. a regulatory element that contains two binding sites for the liganded ah receptor plus a truncated cyp1a1 promoter suffices to direct tcdd-inducible, ah receptor-dependent transcription in vitro. the inducible, receptor-dependent, enhancer-dependent properties of this system make it appropriate for analyzing in vitro the mechanism of dioxin action and the function of the ah receptor.
emergence of recreational drug abuse as a major risk factor for stroke in young adults objective: to investigate the clinical and epidemiologic relations between recreational drug abuse and stroke in young persons. design: a case-control study based on medical records. setting: san francisco general hospital, a 400-bed municipal hospital. patients: consecutive sample of 214 patients aged 15 to 44 years, admitted between 1979 and 1988 with a diagnosis of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. an equal number of control patients admitted with diagnoses of status asthmaticus, acute appendicitis, or acute cholecystitis were matched to stroke patients by age, sex, and year of hospitalization. measurements and main results: seventy-three patients with stroke (34%) were drug abusers compared with 18 (8%) of the controls. in 47 patients with stroke, temporal proximity of drug administration (n = 34) or infectious endocarditis (n = 13) suggested a direct association between drug abuse and stroke. after controlling for other identifiable stroke risk factors, the estimated relative risk for stroke among drug abusers compared with that among non-drug abusers was 6.5 (95% ci, 3.1 to 13.6), and this increased to 49.4 (ci, 6.4 to 379.0) for those patients whose symptoms began within 6 hours of drug administration. among patients less than 35 years of age, drug abuse was the most commonly identified potential predisposing condition (47%), and it was the only condition with a significantly elevated relative risk for stroke (11.7; ci, 3.2 to 42.5). further, a substantial rise in the proportion of drug-related strokes was observed in the last 3 years of the study (31% in 1986 to 1988, compared with 15% in 1979 to 1985, p = 0.008). cocaine, especially recently, was the drug used most frequently in drug-related strokes. conclusion: in an urban population such as ours, recreational drug abuse appears to be a prominent and growing risk factor for strokes in young adults.
perivascular innervation of the cerebral arteries in spontaneously hypertensive rats--an immunohistochemical study. perivascular innervation in cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats and of normotensive wistar-kyoto rats was studied. adrenergic nerve fibers and neuropeptide y-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasoconstrictor nerves, were denser in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats than those of wistar-kyoto rats. in contrast, cholinergic nerve fibers and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance p-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasodilator nerves, remained unchanged in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats, as compared with findings in the wistar-kyoto rats. thus, not only adrenergic nerve fibers but also neuropeptide y-containing nerve fibers may play an important role in preventing the disruption of the blood-brain barrier and the development of hypertensive encephalopathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
a case of lisinopril-induced lithium toxicity we describe a patient who developed lithium toxicity when lisinopril was substituted for clonidine. possible mechanisms of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor-induced lithium toxicity are discussed. aggressive serum lithium concentration monitoring and a reduction in the dose of lithium is advised when using ace inhibitors because of disturbances and shifts in fluid and electrolyte balance.
prognostic value of electrophysiology testing in asymptomatic patients with wolff-parkinson-white pattern [published erratum appears in circulation 1991 mar;83(3):1124] the prognostic value of electrophysiology testing was studied in 75 asymptomatic patients with the wolff-parkinson-white electrocardiographic pattern. all patients underwent electrophysiology testing at entry to the study and were followed up annually for a total of 348 patient-years (median, 4.3 years). there were 44 male and 31 female patients, and age at enrollment ranged from 7 to 77 years (mean, 34 +/- 14 years). the median effective refractory period of the accessory pathway was 293 msec (interquartile range, 280-310 msec), and the median shortest rr interval between preexcited beats during atrial fibrillation (srr) [corrected] was 274 msec (240-320 msec). twenty-three patients had an srr of 250 msec or less and eight patients had a median shortest srr interval of 200 msec or less. twelve patients had inducible sustained reciprocating tachycardia, 10 patients had inducible nonsustained reciprocating tachycardia, and 23 patients had inducible sustained atrial fibrillation. twenty patients (27%) lacked retrograde conduction over the accessory pathway. no patient died suddenly during a median follow-up of 4.3 years. six patients (8%) became symptomatic with documented supraventricular tachycardia, of whom two underwent operative ablation of their accessory pathways. no patient with absent retrograde accessory pathway conduction during the electrophysiology study became symptomatic. inducible sustained or nonsustained reciprocating tachycardia at electrophysiology study did not predict the development of subsequent symptomatic supraventricular tachycardia. nine patients lost preexcitation during follow-up. age at enrollment (relative risk/decade, 1.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-1.8) and anterograde accessory pathway refractory period (relative risk, 1.06/10 msec; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-1.12) were independent predictors of loss of preexcitation.
pseudohypoglycemia in adult victims of adolescent incest. two patients with complaints of hypoglycemia came for evaluation, and both complained of intermittent episodes of mental dullness, disorientation, confusion, and palpitations relieved by eating. plasma glucose levels at the time of symptoms were always above 70 mg/dl. initial onset of symptoms was within 1 to 2 years after cessation of repeated incest, and on recognition of this, both patients associated the onset of episodes of similar feelings with the acts of incest. recognition of this connection did not decrease the frequency of episodes. both persistently refer to the episodes as "hypoglycemia" despite recognition that no glucose level below 70 mg/dl has been recorded during an episode. recurrent episodes of derealization and depersonalization in both patients appear to be sequelae of adolescent incest experiences, but these patients cling to the label "hypoglycemia," perhaps in part because they are unwilling to accept a psychiatric diagnosis for their episodes.
mapping the site of interaction between murine ige and its high affinity receptor with chimeric ig. we have investigated the interaction of mouse (m) ige with its fc epsilon ri on rat basophilic leukemia cells using a set of chimeric ig that were constructed by exchanging homologous h chain c domains between human (hu) igg1 and mige. binding affinities were examined with equilibrium and kinetic measurements, and we found that epsilon/c gamma 3 (mige with c epsilon 4 replaced by c gamma 3) was indistinguishable from mige. the huigg1 and the other chimeric ig, which did not contain both c epsilon 2 and c epsilon 3, did not bind detectably to rat basophilic leukemia cells (ka less than 10(6) m-1). the ability of these chimeric ig to stimulate a cellular response (degranulation) in the presence of multivalent ag was also tested. the epsilon/c gamma 3 was indistinguishable from mige in eliciting a high level of degranulation, whereas the other chimeric ig stimulated no response even when they were preaggregated to enhance their binding avidity. these results demonstrate that c epsilon 4 may be replaced by c gamma 3 without affecting the binding and cell activating properties of mige. the lack of binding by the other chimeric ig indicates that both c epsilon 2 and c epsilon 3 are necessary for the binding interaction.
acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy (ahei)--a variant of henoch-schonlein purpura or a distinct clinical entity? acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy (ahei) is an acute cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis (lcv) of infants. the clinical picture has a violent onset with a short benign course followed by spontaneous complete recovery. we report 12 infants with ahei who were studied clinically, serologically, and immunohistologically. edema and palpable purpuric skin lesions were present in all infants who were in good general condition. serologic studies were unremarkable. light microscopic examination of the skin biopsy specimens revealed lcv as in henoch-schonlein purpura (hsp). direct immunofluorescent study revealed depositions of various immunoreactants, including fibrinogen, c3, igg, igm, iga, and ige (100%, 100%, 22%, 78%, 33%, and 33%, respectively) in the wall and around the small vessels. similar deposition of clq was also present in three infants in whom clq could be studied (100%). the clinical similarities and differences between ahei and hsp have been discussed in the literature. ahei is observed before 2 years of age and is confined to the skin. the skin lesions of hsp are more polymorphic. although histopathologic findings are similar, the immunohistologic pattern found in our series of ahei is rather different from the pattern of hsp. taking all of these findings into account, we suggest that ahei should be considered as a separate, clinicopathologic entity or a possible variant of hsp. the more descriptive term "acute benign cutaneous lcv of infancy" is offered for this clinicopathologic entity.
overt hepatic encephalopathy precipitated by zinc deficiency. encephalopathy in liver disease may be unresponsive to protein restriction, lactulose, and neomycin. zinc supplements have been reported to improve psychometric performance in liver cirrhosis, but the importance of zinc deficiency in overt hepatic encephalopathy has not yet been clearly established. a patient with severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy was studied to determine the relation between her signs of encephalopathy and zinc deficiency. the study included a period in which zinc deficiency was artificially induced by oral histidine. an episode of overt encephalopathy occurred that was identical to earlier episodes and responded to oral zinc. the study showed an association between encephalopathy and zinc deficiency by successive zinc depletion and supplementation regimens. long-term zinc supplementation improved severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy and therefore the quality of life.
clinical significance of colonic fermentation. recent evidence of the potential benefits of short chain fatty acids has prompted renewed interest in the area of human colonic fermentation. this paper reviews the clinical and metabolic consequences of colonic fermentation.
gastric infarction. we have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries. we believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental. the outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal.
vulvar condylomas and squamous vestibular micropapilloma. differences in appearance and response to treatment. a study of 37 women with typical condylomas and so-called squamous micropapilloma was undertaken to determine their response to systemic interferon and/or podophyllin treatment. thirty lesions were classified as condylomas and 9 as squamous micropapillomas; two women had both lesions. twenty-six (87%) of 30 condylomas responded, whereas only 1 (11%) of the 9 cases of micropapillomatosis showed a partial response (p less than .001) to podophyllin and/or interferon. twenty-six biopsies from condylomas in which sufficient dna was available for analysis contained human papillomavirus (hpv) dna sequences that hybridized to an hpv 6 + 16 probe mix under nonstringent conditions. in contrast, hpv dna sequences could not be detected in any of the nine cases of micropapillomatosis. immunoperoxidase studies performed on these lesions failed to demonstrate viral capsid antigen. thus, despite certain similarities in the clinical presentation and microscopic features of condylomas and squamous micropapillomas, it is not clear at present whether micropapillomas are hpv-related lesions.
surgical treatment of brain metastases in malignant melanoma. the authors report the results of a retrospective review of 13 patients who underwent 19 craniotomies for resection of metastatic malignant melanoma at the university of colorado (denver, co) between 1983 and 1989. there was preoperative evidence of extracranial disease in 11 patients. eight patients had more than one intracranial metastasis at operation. intraoperative ultrasound was used in 18 of the 19 craniotomies to minimize surgical trauma to the brain. the 30-day mortality was zero. the 30-day morbidity was minimal. no patient acquired a new neurologic deficit as a result of surgery. all patients regained at least their preoperative level of functioning. six of the patients who were living at the time of review have been followed for 4 to 25 months (median, 7.5 months). the seven patients who were dead at the time of review survived 4 to 18 months (median, 10 months). these results compare favorably with the survival of untreated patients with metastatic melanoma to the brain (median, 1 month), patients treated with radiation therapy alone (median, 2-4 months), and those treated with chemotherapy alone (median, 2-4 months). the excision of metastatic melanoma from the brain, although not curative, may increase survival in patients with this problem with little morbidity and mortality even in the presence of other metastases.
recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring. a case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described. these episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies, and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy. both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities. two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections. this case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants, leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months, respectively. the illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness. studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation. the biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed, in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
demonstration of lipiodol in paraffin sections using a modified silver impregnation technique. to demonstrate postangiographic lipiodol (lip) in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) in paraffin sections, direct impregnation of formalin-fixed tissue blocks with silver nitrate (agno3) was followed by routine processing. lip appeared as black globules in the sinusoids. ninety-four tissue blocks from 13 postangiographic lip hccs and 69 from 8 non-lip hccs and 4 fatty livers were studied. seventy-two of 73 negative controls and all positive blocks as seen on soft tissue radiographs (strs) were correctly coded (specificity 98.6%, sensitivity 100%). twenty-six of the 44 lip-negative areas on strs from lip cases contained scanty globules of less than 10 microns in diameter. fatty change gave no positive readings. thus, modified agno3 impregnation is a simple, accurate means of detecting lip in high-quality paraffin sections suitable for tumor diagnosis and, if applied to postangiographic lip, ultrasonographically guided liver biopsy, can verify that a biopsy has reached a suspected tumor focus.
how long can a coronary reperfusion catheter be placed in acute coronary occlusion following failed transluminal coronary angioplasty? a case report. a coronary reperfusion catheter (crc) is designed to preserve antegrade coronary flow when abrupt coronary closure occurs during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). insertion of the catheter to an occluded coronary artery for a few hours has been reported to be effective for myocardial salvage: however, it is unknown how long the catheter can be kept in place without causing extension of myocardial ischemia. the authors experienced a case in which the crc was kept in place for twenty-four hours for anticoagulant therapy of an occluded coronary artery following failure of ptca. this case suggests that adequate anticoagulant therapy can prolong the period during which a crc can be kept in place if emergency coronary bypass surgery cannot be performed immediately after failure of coronary angioplasty.
a prognostic system for transient ischemia or minor stroke. objective: to build a prognostic system for patients with carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke. design: inception cohort study with 2-year follow-up. setting: urban community teaching hospital. patients: eligible patients (n = 142), identified on a carotid ultrasound roster, had been hospitalized between 1984 and 1987 within 30 days of a first carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke. measurements: stroke or death within 2 years. main results: three factors were associated with stroke or death: age of more than 65 years, diabetes, and hypertension. based on regression coefficients, age of more than 65 years was assigned 3 points; diabetes, 3 points; and hypertension, 2 points. an initial prognostic system comprised risk groups 1 (0 points), 2 (1 to 5 points), and 3 (6 to 8 points). outcome rates in the three groups were 2%, 31%, and 54% (p less than 0.0001), respectively. in an independent test sample, the corresponding outcome rates for the initial system were 12%, 21%, and 31% (p = 0.04). a final prognostic system, including two additional predictors (coronary heart disease [1 point] and the distinction between stroke and transient ischemic attack for the baseline event [2 points]), comprised risk groups 1 (0 to 2 points), 2 (3 to 6 points), and 3 (7 to 11 points). corresponding outcome rates were 3%, 27%, and 48% (p less than 0.001) in the original cohort and 10%, 21%, and 59% (p less than 0.001) in the test cohort. conclusion: for selected patients with carotid transient ischemia or minor stroke, five clinical features can be combined to stratify effectively the risk for a subsequent stroke or death.
deletion of the human retinoblastoma gene in primary leukemias. as an initial step in evaluating the role of tumor suppressor genes in leukemogenesis, we surveyed primary leukemia cells from 130 patients for possible deletion of the retinoblastoma susceptibility (rb) gene by southern blot analysis. two of them clearly showed homozygous deletion of rb alleles. the first patient was a pre-b acute lymphoid leukemia (all) associated with a cytogenetic translocation: t(14;16)(q24;q22). the deletion was located at the 3' portion of the rb gene, very close to the site of rb gene deletion recently identified in an all cell line. the absence of rb110 protein was further confirmed by western blot analysis. the second patient was a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (cmmol), terminated in acute blastic transformation. deletion of the 5' portion of rb gene was found in leukemic cells in the chronic stage. the results indicated that inactivation of the rb gene occurred in certain cases of leukemia. its significance warrants further study.
role of dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the evaluation of coronary reserve after coronary artery bypass grafting. the object of this study was to assess the usefulness of the dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the early evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting, when the use of an exercise stress test is precluded. we studied 39 consecutive patients (37 men and two women, mean age 57.3 years) referred to our institute for elective coronary artery bypass. five patients had single, 12 patients double, 20 patients triple vessel disease, and two had left main stem disease. nineteen left internal mammary artery grafts, 20 sequential grafts, and 39 single vein grafts were performed. all the patients were subjected to the test before (time range 1 to 3 days) and after (time range 6 to 10 days) the operation in the absence of therapy. dipyridamole was administered intravenously 0.56 mg/kg over 4 minutes (low dose); if no effect was apparent, an additional 0.28 mg/kg over 2 minutes (high dose) was given. during the test, blood pressure and a twelve-lead electrocardiogram were monitored. an arbitrary wall motion score was derived by dividing the left ventricle into six regions and grading from 0 to 3-normokinetic, hypokinetic, akinetic, and dyskinetic zones. preoperatively the test was positive in 38 patients as evidenced by wall motion abnormalities (36 patients had electrocardiographic changes) and in one patient by electrocardiographic changes and chest pain; 22 tests were positive after the low dose and 17 after the high dose. angina was present in 33 patients. mean wall motion score was 1.64 per patient in the basal condition and 4.03 per patient after the test (p less than 0.001). after coronary bypass in three patients the test was positive at the same dosage that was used preoperatively, as shown by wall motion abnormalities (in two patients by electrocardiographic changes, as well). four patients had symptoms. furthermore, at 6 months' follow-up, a treadmill stress test performed in these three patients was positive for ischemia and angina. the wall motion score was 1.25 per patient in the basal condition and 1.53 per patient after the test (no significant difference). when the preoperative wall motion score obtained after dipyridamole echocardiography was compared with the postoperative score, a statistically significant difference was seen: 4.03 per patient versus 1.53 per patient (p less than 001). in eight patients we observed an improvement of basal myocardial contractility after the operation, which indicates the reversibility of wall motion abnormalities observed before coronary bypass. in conclusion our data show that the dipyridamole-echocardiography test is a suitable method for the early assessment of bypass grafting when other methods, exercise dependent, are not indicated.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
an effective and adaptable transvenous defibrillation system using the coronary sinus in humans. with use of a coronary sinus catheter electrode, a right ventricular catheter electrode and a chest wall patch electrode system, defibrillation threshold voltage, current and energy were measured with four distinct transvenous defibrillation techniques delivered in random sequence in each of 12 survivors of cardiac arrest immediately before implantation of a standard epicardial patch defibrillation system. the four transvenous defibrillation techniques were 1) single pathway monophasic pulsing, 2) single pathway biphasic pulsing, 3) dual pathway sequential pulsing, and 4) dual pathway simultaneous pulsing. a transvenous defibrillation method was considered to be potentially useful only if the defibrillation threshold was less than or equal to 500 v (less than or equal to 15 j delivered energy). the 500 v value would allow a 2:1 defibrillation safety margin for a device with a maximal output of 30 j. no single transvenous pulsing technique was uniformly superior in efficacy. however, by choosing the best pulsing technique for each patient, it was possible to obtain an average defibrillation threshold of 410 +/- 135 v leading edge voltage, 7.2 +/- 2.5 a leading edge current and 11.3 +/- 7.4 j delivered energy for the group of 12 patients. with the ability to vary defibrillation technique, transvenous antiarrhythmic device implantation would have been possible in 10 (83%) of the 12 patients at or below a 15 j defibrillation threshold cutoff point. in contrast, if only one transvenous defibrillation method had been used, as few as 5 and at most 8 of the 12 patients would have been candidates for a transvenous defibrillation system given a 15 j defibrillation threshold cutoff point for insertion.
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion. a case report. adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus. such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts. since standard therapy, oophorectomy, was performed, the patient was surgically castrated. a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation, except when necrotic.
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells. we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor (achr) and to purified protein derivative (ppd) (of tuberculin) of hyperplastic thymus, thymoma, and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis (mg). hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells, whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend. thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus. furthermore, there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd (but not to achr), arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells. by contrast, both achr- and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients, which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells. cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd. however, the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above. our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere.
sumatriptan in acute migraine: pharmacology and review of world experience. the introduction of sumatriptan, a novel abortive antimigraine agent, has generated a significant amount of preclinical and clinical interest during the past few years. at the scientific level, sumatriptan is unique in terms of its selective pharmacological properties. the effects of sumatriptan in various experimental paradigms have led to new insights into the pathophysiology of migraine. at the clinical level, sumatriptan appears to be an effective abortive anti-migraine agent with minimal side effects. its ability to decrease, rather than exacerbate, the nausea and vomiting of migraine appears to be an important advance in the treatment of migraine.
options for surgical repair in hearts with univentricular atrioventricular connection and subaortic stenosis. thirteen patients have undergone surgical treatment because of subaortic obstruction in hearts with a univentricular atrioventricular connection. nine patients underwent surgical enlargement of the ventricular septal defect and four patients had construction of an aortopulmonary anastomosis and closure of the pulmonary trunk (the damus-kaye-stansel procedure). two patients undergoing enlargement of the septal defect and two having the damus-kaye-stansel procedure also had a modified fontan procedure. one patient had complete atrioventricular dissociation after direct enlargement of the ventricular septal defect, which necessitated insertion of an epicardial pacemaker. one patient died within 30 days of the operation after enlargement of the defect and two patients after the damus-kaye-stansel procedure. there was one late death, occurring in a patient who underwent enlargement of the ventricular septal defect. ten patients have subsequently undergone conventional cardiac catheterization and angiography or transcutaneous doppler flow studies to assess the relief of the subaortic obstruction. the result has been satisfactory in all. because of this experience, we now recommend direct surgical enlargement of the restrictive ventricular septal defect for direct relief of subaortic stenosis occurring with a univentricular atrioventricular connection to a dominant left ventricle, inasmuch as it appears to be hemodynamically effective with a low operative mortality and morbidity. the damus-kaye-stansel procedure can also have a role in relieving subaortic stenosis when the atria are connected to a dominant right ventricle.
perianal appearances associated with constipation. the perianal appearances were studied prospectively of 136 constipated children (mean age 3.9 years, 67 boys, 69 girls). anal dilatation, fissures, tags, warts, perianal oedema, redness, blueness, and veins were recorded. it was noted whether dilatation occurred immediately or at 30 and 60 seconds with the buttocks minimally separated, and on subsequent firm lateral traction of the buttocks. the degree of faecal loading was assessed in all children. anal dilatation was found in 24 (18%) and first appeared on lateral traction in eight (6%). in three quarters of the children with dilatation faecal loading or perianal signs were present. fissures were found in 35 (26%) children and tags in seven (5%). perianal redness was more likely to be associated with fissures, and blueness with dilatation. we conclude that there are no pathognomonic perianal signs in childhood constipation and that the technique of anal examination should be standardised.
coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma. thymic carcinoid tumors are unusual neoplasms that are different from thymomas. we report a case of coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis. the clinicopathological findings are discussed with a review of the literature.
extraoral application of osseointegrated implants. the use of osseointegrated implants to provide support for craniofacial prostheses has provided the clinician with another approach to the treatment of complex craniofacial reconstructive problems. the surgical technique is reviewed and the mayo clinic experience is presented.
effect of portasystemic shunts on subsequent transplantation of the liver. portasystemic (ps) shunts have been regarded as a relative contraindication to hepatic transplantation (ht) because of the potential for increased technical difficulties during the transplant operation. we compared operative blood loss, morbidity and mortality in 27 patients with ps shunts and 147 patients with no shunts (ns) who underwent ht. the ps shunt group included 12 portocaval (pc), eight mesocaval, four central splenorenal and four distal splenorenal shunts. the ps shunt and ns groups were similar with respect to age, preoperative medical status and abo blood group matching between donors and recipients. there were no significant differences in the mean (plus or minus s.d.) intraoperative blood transfusion (9.1 +/- 7.6 versus 9.2 +/- 11.0 units), mean (plus or minus s.d.) duration of anesthesia (8.1 +/- 1.4 versus 7.8 +/- 1.5 hours) and operative mortality (7 versus 11 per cent) between the ps shunt and ns groups, respectively. complications of the biliary tract were significantly higher in the ps shunt group (22.0 versus 5.4 per cent, p less than 0.01) but they did not increase the mortality rate. we conclude that a prior ps shunt should not influence the decision to accept patients for ht. ps shunts remain a reasonable surgical option for patients with cirrhosis and variceal hemorrhage (refractory to sclerotherapy) who, by virtue of good hepatic function, do not merit immediate ht.
denervation in hemiplegic muscles. this study examined the frequency of denervation activity in hemiplegic muscles in relation to the size and location of the central lesion. we studied 20 patients, 14 with major unilateral cerebral infarctions in the middle cerebral or internal carotid territories; four with a single lacune in the pons, internal capsule, or thalamus; and two with precentral infarcts. using somatosensory evoked potentials, motor conduction studies, and assessments of conduction across the plexus and roots, we detected no conduction abnormalities on the affected side. fibrillation was common in both groups, especially in distal and intermediate muscles. the distribution of the fibrillation and the normal conduction studies suggested that trauma of peripheral nerves was not a factor. although the normal conduction studies and pattern of fibrillation activity do not exclude peripheral nerve trauma as the cause of the fibrillation, we suggest that transsynaptic degeneration is a reasonable alternative explanation.
prognostic significance of proteinuria one year after onset of diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome. we examined the prognostic value of changes in the amount of proteinuria, measured as protein/creatinine ratios in early-morning urine samples, in 40 children who had had diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome. one year after diagnosis, 87% of those who seemed to have fully recovered had normal urinary protein/creatinine ratios, compared with none of those with poor outcomes (p less than 0.001). none of those with poor outcomes achieved normal protein/creatinine ratios during follow-up to a maximum of 5 1/2 years, but 93% of those who made a full clinical recovery no longer had proteinuria. measurement of the protein/creatinine ratio in an early-morning sample of urine is a simple, cost-effective, and noninvasive means of monitoring the progress of patients with diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome, provided that a technique sensitive at low protein concentrations is employed.
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin. erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis. we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin. we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction.
acute lower respiratory tract infection due to virus among hospitalized children in dhaka, bangladesh. the nature of acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) in hospitalized children and of the associated viral agents was assessed in a study of 601 children less than 5 years old over a 24-month period. of these children, 80% were less than 24 months of age and the ratio of boys to girls was 1.7:1. pneumonia (86.5% of cases) was the most frequently observed clinical manifestation. shedding of virus was detected in 21.1% of the children; the highest rate occurred in infants 0-5 months old (27%) as compared with a rate of only 12.5% in children 25-60 months old. virus was detected in 33.3%, 32.8%, 21.2%, and 20% of the cases of tracheobronchitis, bronchiolitis, pneumonia, and croup, respectively. among the viruses detected, 78% were respiratory syncytial virus (rsv) (91% of infections with this virus occurred in children less than 2 years old) and 14.4% were influenza virus types a and b. of the rsv infections, 61% occurred in infants less than 1 year old. the case-fatality rate was 6.8% overall and was 4.8% in virus-associated cases. no consistent pattern of seasonal occurrence of viral infections was discerned. rsv was detected throughout the year, with increased prevalence from january to april.
antigen-presenting activity of draining lymph node cells from mice painted with a contact allergen during ultraviolet carcinogenesis. the induction of skin cancers in mice by chronic uv irradiation is accompanied by a decrease in the numbers of ia+ and thy-1+ dendritic cells in the epidermis early in the course of uv irradiation. subsequently, the number of ia+ cells, but not thy-1+ cells, increases until the time of tumor development. to assess the functional significance of these changes in cutaneous immune cells, and to help define the role these cells may play in immune surveillance against skin cancers, we tested the afferent immunologic capability of the skin during the development of uv-b radiation-induced skin cancers. afferent immune function was measured by testing the ag-presenting capacity of draining lymph node (dln) cells from mice sensitized epicutaneously with dinitrofluorobenzene. a reduced contact hypersensitivity response was induced in mice immunized with dln cells from uv-irradiated mice that had been sensitized with hapten on uv-irradiated skin. this decreased reactivity was present during the entire latent period of tumor development. however, in tumor-bearing mice, the dln cells from uv-irradiated, sensitized animals exhibited normal ag-presenting activity. dln cells from uv-irradiated mice sensitized on ventral, unirradiated skin exhibited normal ag-presenting activity. the lowest amount of ag-presenting activity in the draining lymph nodes of uv-irradiated mice correlated temporally with the lowest number of ia+, adenosine triphosphatase+ dendritic epidermal cells in the uv-irradiated skin. at least during the early part of the tumor latent period, an increase in the number of these cells was paralleled by an increase in the ag-presenting activity of the dln cells. in contrast, the number of thy-1+ dendritic epidermal cells in uv-irradiated skin did not correlate with the ag-presenting activity. thus, the decrease in the number of identifiable epidermal langerhans cells early in the course of chronic uv irradiation correlated with a decrease in ag-presenting activity after sensitization through the uv-irradiated skin. these studies demonstrate that the afferent arm of the cutaneous immune response is impaired in the site of tumor development throughout the latent period of uv carcinogenesis.
screening colonoscopy in asymptomatic average-risk persons with negative fecal occult blood tests. colonoscopy was performed on 210 asymptomatic average-risk persons, aged 50-75 years, who had negative fecal occult blood test results. colonoscopy was complete to the cecum in 209 subjects. fifty-three subjects (25%) had adenomas and two had cancer. all of the adenomas greater than or equal to 1 cm in size and both cancers occurred in subjects aged greater than or equal to 60 years. fifty-one percent of subjects with adenomas and one with cancer had no neoplasms distal to the sigmoid-descending colon junction. one subject had a major postpolypectomy hemorrhage that stopped spontaneously. screening colonoscopy, therefore, has a high yield for detection of neoplasms in asymptomatic average-risk persons aged greater than or equal to 60 years with negative fecal occult blood test results. the yield is low in persons aged 50-54 years and intermediate in persons aged 55-59 years.
improving compliance and increasing control of hypertension: needs of special hypertensive populations. approximately 60 million people in the united states have hypertension. more than half are either untreated or treated without blood pressure control, despite the well-known risks of hypertension and the established benefits of treatment. the major reason for inadequate control of hypertension is poor adherence to treatment. approximately 50% of patients with hypertension fail to keep follow-up appointments, and only 60% take their medications as prescribed. barriers to effective therapeutic adherence include poor doctor-patient communication, cost of antihypertensive therapy, and side effects of the drugs. to increase control of hypertension, compliance with therapy must be improved. physicians and patients must be mutually committed to achieving control of blood pressure. physicians should communicate instructions clearly and prescribe therapies that are effective, affordable, and have minimal or no adverse effects on patient quality of life or overall cardiac risk profile. the needs of special hypertensive populations (i.e., elderly, black, and young patients) must also be recognized and addressed. patients must follow recommendations and alert their physicians to any problems with their medications--particularly those relating to side effects and cost. when selecting drug therapy it should be noted that older patients are sensitive to volume depletion and sympathetic inhibition. in this group of patients, initial drug doses should be low and increments smaller and more gradual than in younger patients. black patients with hypertension show an accentuated response to diuretics and blunted responses to beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors as monotherapy. however, when used with a diuretic, there are no racial differences in the blood pressure lowering effects of beta-blockers and ace inhibitors.
cavernous malformations and capillary telangiectasia: a spectrum within a single pathological entity. cerebral vascular malformations have traditionally been divided into four categories: arteriovenous, venous, cavernous, and capillary telangiectases. a controversy exists about separating the latter two lesions into separate entities. critics claim the distinction is arbitrary but have been unable to present convincing evidence linking the two types of lesions. we have reviewed the histories of 20 patients with cavernous malformations and have analyzed the clinical, radiographic, and surgical-autopsy data associated with these lesions. in some patients, multiple lesions, including cavernous malformations, capillary telangiectases, and transitional forms between the two, were identified. based on this analysis, we conclude that capillary telangiectasia and cavernous malformations represent two pathological extremes within the same vascular malformation category and propose grouping them as a single cerebral entity called cerebral capillary malformations.
late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia. bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia, occurring in 93% of patients before the age of 1 year, but thought to be rare after 2 years of age. among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation, four presented with late cholangitis (7 to 13.5 years old), consisting of fever, jaundice, and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis. liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis, growth of microorganism, or both. cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics. cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis. all the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis. these results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis.
beat-to-beat detection of ventricular late potentials with high-resolution electrocardiography. to detect dynamic changes of vlps we developed a low-noise, hr-ecg with a gain of 10(5)-10(6)x. this system allows the beat-to-beat detection of low-amplitude signals at the bedside in a nonshielded room without any averaging process. analysis was performed in 39 normal subjects (group a: 27 men, 12 women, mean age, 28 +/- 8 years), in 98 patients with coronary artery disease without documented sustained ventricular tachycardia (group b: 86 men, 12 women, mean age, 59 +/- 10 years) and in 41 patients coronary artery disease with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (group c: 36 men, 5 women; mean age 63 +/- 9 years). comparison was made with time-domain signal-averaging (sa-ecg) in all cases at the same electrode position and with identical band-pass filtering. in group a no vlps were detected; the total filtered qrs duration was 84 +/- 8 msec (mean +/- sd), and the time interval during which the terminal qrs did not exceed 40 microv (i-40) was less than 30 msec in all cases (mean, 17 +/- 6 msec). in group b, vlps were detected by hr-ecg in 34 of 98 patients (35%); the total qrs duration was 102 +/- 16 msec (mean +/- sd, p less than 0.01 vs group a), and the i-40 was 29 +/- 13 msec (mean +/- sd, p less than 0.01 vs (group a). in group c, vlps were detected by hr-ecg in 38 of 41 patients (93%); the total qrs duration was 123 +/- 22 msec (mean +/- sd, p less than 0.01 vs group a and group b), and the i-40 was 40 +/- 14 msec (mean +/- sd, p less than 0.01 vs group a and group b). concordant results between hr-ecg and sa-ecg were observed in 91% of the cases (59 positive and 103 negative results). late potentials that exhibited dynamic variations were detected by hr-ecg alone in 13 cases, and very low amplitude vlps were detected by sa-ecg alone in three cases. in conclusion, the present study demonstrates the feasibility of body-surface recording of vlps on a beat-to-beat basis, without any averaging process, at the bedside in a nonshielded room. this new approach may allow the study of dynamic changes of vlps during spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias or ischemia.
refractory parastomal ulcers: a multidisciplinary approach. chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual. previous reports have implicated infections, fistulas, recurrent inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), pyoderma gangrenosum, and trauma. over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery. eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer. five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations. they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing. the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses (contact dermatitis, eczema, or bullous pemphigoid) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis. these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks. we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy.
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia associated with profound lymphopenia and abnormal t-lymphocyte subset ratios during treatment for early-stage breast carcinoma. two women with stage ii breast carcinoma treated with lumpectomy followed by breast irradiation and adjuvant chemotherapy developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. neither woman had evidence of immunosuppression before therapy. they both had profound lymphopenia, reversed cd4/cd8 ratios, and normal peripheral blood total leukocyte counts at the time of their infections. both women were seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and had no risk factors for such an infection. the patients' cd4 lymphocyte counts increased after chemotherapy for breast carcinoma was discontinued. thus, it appears that the therapy they received may have caused severe t-lymphocyte mediated immunosuppression.
natural history and prognostic factors for chronic hepatitis type b. one hundred and five hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) positive patients presenting with chronic persistent hepatitis (n = 46) or chronic active hepatitis without cirrhosis (n = 59) were followed longitudinally for one to 16 years (mean 5.5 years) and underwent follow up biopsy. during a mean histological follow up of 3.7 years, active cirrhosis developed in 21 (20%) patients one to 13 years after entry to the study with a calculated annual incidence of 5.9%. the probability of evolution to cirrhosis was significantly higher in patients with chronic active hepatitis and bridging hepatic necrosis than in those with moderate chronic active hepatitis or chronic persistent hepatitis (p less than 0.0001). cox multiple regression analysis showed that the following three variables independently implied poor prognosis: older age, presence of bridging hepatic necrosis, and persistence of hepatitis b virus dna in serum (p less than 0.0001). these findings indicate that patients with severe chronic active hepatitis and persistent hepatitis b virus replication are at very high risk of rapid progression to cirrhosis.
effect of alpha-adrenergic blockade on blood pressure, glucose, and lipid metabolism in hypertensive patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. to clarify the long-term effects of alpha-adrenergic blockade on blood pressure, glucose, and lipid metabolism, a selective alpha 1-adrenergic inhibitor (prazosin, 1.0 to 2.0 mg/day in divided doses) was administered as a single antihypertensive agent to 10 (four men and six women, aged 52 to 76 years) hypertensive patients (systolic blood pressure [sbp] greater than or equal to 150 mm hg or diastolic blood pressure [dbp] greater than or equal to 90 mm hg) with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) for up to 20 weeks. blood pressure, glucose tolerance and immunoreactive insulin (iri) response to 75 gm oral glucose load, hemoglobin a1 (hb a1), serum lipid profile, and serum apolipoprotein were examined before and after treatment. sbp and dbp were significantly reduced at 20 weeks after treatment with the selective alpha 1-adrenergic inhibitor (sbp 167 +/- 6 mm hg versus 152 +/- 7 mm hg; dbp 81 +/- 3 mm hg versus 76 +/- 3 mm hg, (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively). glucose tolerance and iri response to glucose load were not significantly changed at 4 and 12 to 20 weeks after selective alpha 1-inhibitor treatment compared with the baseline data before treatment; the level of hb a1 was not significantly changed at 4 and 20 weeks after treatment.
omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy. transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices. a small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy. such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain, stricture formation, and recurrent hemorrhage. the use of omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients (6 women, 4 men; age range, 27-86 years) with cirrhosis (pbc, 4; sclerosing cholangitis, 2; chronic active liver disease, 2; alcohol, 1; and cryptogenic, 1) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 (range, 8-21) sessions of sclerotherapy. the ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose h2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate. in each case one or more complications had occurred: severe pain in 3, stricture formation in 4, and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases. after an 8-week course of omeprazole, 40 mg daily, endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution. in 2 cases the ulcer recurred, with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient. both cases responded to repeat therapy. these results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers.
endoscopic screening of early esophageal cancer with the lugol dye method in patients with head and neck cancers. the poor prognosis for esophageal cancer could be improved if lesions were detected at an early stage. to detect early esophageal cancer, endoscopic screening of the esophagus with the lugol dye method was performed in patients with head and neck cancers who were asymptomatic but regarded as being at high risk for synchronous or metachronous esophageal cancer. of 178 patients screened, 9 had esophageal cancer (5.1%). eight of these patients (89%) were at early stages with no lymph node metastasis. most of the lesions (9 of 13 lesions) were not detectable by barium studies or ordinary endoscopic study. the epidemiologic statistical analysis of the patients confirmed that they had a significantly high observed and expected number (o/e) ratio (39.7; p less than 0.001). these results demonstrate the value of endoscopic screening of the esophagus with the lugol dye method in patients with head and neck cancers and imply that endoscopic screening with the lugol dye method may be useful for detecting early esophageal cancer in individuals at risk for other causes.
unilateral hydrocephalus in adults. the authors report 14 cases of unilateral hydrocephalus in adults. headache was the most common presenting symptom. unilateral hydrocephalus was documented in each patient with computed tomography scans; magnetic resonance imaging was also used in seven patients in the latter part of the series. unilateral hydrocephalus was caused by tumor (seven patients), venous angioma (one patient), ependymal cyst (one patient), postinflammatory gliosis (one patient), and was idiopathic in four patients. the primary surgical treatment was craniotomy with fenestration of the septum pellucidum, which relieved symptoms in eight of nine patients for whom long-term follow-up data were available.
pleural anesthetics given through an epidural catheter secured inside a chest tube. pain management after thoracic surgical procedures is a difficult clinical problem. a variety of pain management methods are used with variable efficacy. this paper presents an effective method of pleural anesthetic administration using a pleural catheter inserted through a chest tube.
right-left disorientation in dementia of the alzheimer type. we demonstrated that right-left orientation (r/l-o) on a confronting subject is more impaired in patients with dementia of the alzheimer type than in patients with multi-infarct dementia of comparable degree of dementia. the impairment in r/l-o is independent of aphasia and spatial disorientation.
amiodarone versus bretylium for suppression of reperfusion arrhythmias in dogs. reperfusion arrhythmias are an important complication of interventions to limit infarct size. recently, amiodarone has been shown to be rapidly effective in suppressing sustained, incessant ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this setting. this study evaluated the time course of arrhythmia suppression and comparative efficacy of amiodarone versus bretylium in a canine model of reperfusion arrhythmias. of 23 dogs subjected to a harris two-stage coronary artery ligation followed by release, 18 demonstrated clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias and received either intravenous amiodarone, 5 mg/kg (9 dogs), or intravenous bretylium, 5 mg/kg (9 dogs). direct-current shocks for sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were administered as necessary. amiodarone rapidly suppressed sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this model with no dog in the amiodarone-treated group requiring cardioversion after completion of the 15-minute infusion versus 4 of 9 dogs in the bretylium-treated group (p less than 0.05). amiodarone was more effective than bretylium in suppressing episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation, episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and premature ventricular complexes. the blood pressure and heart rate decreased more after amiodarone administration than after bretylium administration. we conclude that, in the canine reperfusion arrhythmia model, amiodarone is rapidly effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and is more effective than bretylium.
ampullary hamartoma: endoscopic diagnosis and treatment. this study shows a patient who presented with intermittent biliary tract obstruction caused by ampullary hamartoma. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed a large ulcerated papilla and dilated biliary ducts. tissue diagnosis was established by a large particle biopsy obtained with a snare. the patient underwent a successful endoscopic sphincterotomy and has remained symptom free for 4 years.
absence of acetylcholine-induced current in epithelial cells from thymus glands and thymomas of myasthenia gravis patients. we investigated the activity of ion channels in epithelial cells from human thymus glands and thymomas kept in short-term cell culture by clamping the membrane potential of the cells at -85 mv and determining the membrane current flowing on application of acetylcholine, glycine, or gamma-aminobutyric acid. in concentrations of up to 10(-3) m, none of the neurotransmitters induced any detectable current. this suggests (1) that there are no acetylcholine receptors (achrs) or other products of the achr gene family having ion-channel properties in the membranes of these epithelial cells, and (2) that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding protein of thymus and thymoma has no achr-like ion-channel property. these results support the hypothesis that the cross-reacting structures that elicit the anti-achr autoimmune response in thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis are antigens having only limited homology with the achr. myasthenia gravis not associated with thymoma might have a different pathogenesis.
percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in sickle cell anemia: a case report. percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was performed on a 19-year-old female who had moderate pulmonary valve stenosis with sickle cell anemia. the patient developed sickle cell crisis resulting in occipital infarction, but she made a good recovery. we describe this case and the methods of reducing the risk of sickle cell crisis.
thallium-201 scintigraphy in differentiated thyroid cancer: comparison with radioiodine scintigraphy and serum thyroglobulin determinations. the role of thallium-201 (201ti) scintigraphy in the follow-up evaluation of differentiated thyroid carcinoma (dtc) is controversial. desirable characteristics of 201ti scintigraphy including the potential for no thyroid hormone withdrawal, immediate imaging postinjection, and low radiation burden relative to iodine-131 (131i) suggests it is logistically superior to 131i scintigraphy. fifty-two patients with dtc were evaluated with 201ti and 131i neck and chest images, and serum thyroglobulin measurements. in post-thyroidectomy and pre-131i ablation therapy patients, very little 201ti accumulation was noted within the thyroid bed, with discordantly increased 131i activity and normal serum thyroglobulin measurements. twenty-nine percent of patients evaluated after 131i ablative therapy had elevated serum thyroglobulin levels and localized neck and chest abnormalities on 201ti scan that were not seen on 131i studies. our data suggest that 201ti is more sensitive than 131i diagnostic (5 mci) studies for detection of dtc, while 131i is more sensitive in detecting normal residual thyroid tissue postoperatively.
cardioplegia-induced damage to ischemic immature myocardium is independent of oxygen availability. the known benefits of hypothermic pharmacological cardioplegia in protecting the ischemic adult heart may not extend to children. protection of the ischemic immature rabbit heart with hypothermic krebs-henseleit bicarbonate buffer is better than with hypothermic st. thomas' ii cardioplegic solution. we investigated whether the availability of oxygen in the preischemic perfusate is responsible for the increased tolerance to ischemia of immature (7- to 10-day-old) hearts perfused with krebs buffer in comparison with st. thomas' ii solution immediately before ischemia. after obtaining preischemic control data in the "working" mode, we perfused hearts (n = 8 per group) for 3 minutes with hypothermic (14 degrees c) krebs buffer or hypothermic st. thomas' ii solution saturated with 0%, 25%, or 95% oxygen. this was followed by 2 hours of global ischemia at 14 degrees c. hearts were reperfused for 15 minutes in the langendorff mode and 35 minutes in the working mode, and recovery of function was measured. for preischemic oxygen concentrations of 0%, 25%, and 95%, recovery of aortic flow in hearts protected by hypothermia alone during ischemia was 74% +/- 9%, 82% +/- 4%, and 99% +/- 2% of preischemic values, respectively. in hearts protected by hypothermia plus cardioplegia, the values were 69% +/- 6%, 72% +/- 3%, and 86% +/- 5%, respectively. thus, at equal oxygen concentrations, recovery of postischemic function was better in hearts protected by hypothermia alone compared with hypothermia plus cardioplegia. we conclude that factors other than oxygen availability are responsible for the damaging effect of st. thomas' ii solution on the ischemic immature rabbit heart.
esophageal perforation during pneumatic dilatation for achalasia: a possible association with malnutrition. pneumatic balloon dilatation of the lower esophageal sphincter is commonly utilized as primary therapy for achalasia. perforation related to pneumatic dilatation is uncommon (2-6%) but may result in severe morbidity. factors associated with risk of perforation are not well defined. we noted perforation in three patients undergoing forceful balloon dilatation. all these patients had clinical evidence of significant malnutrition (recent marked weight loss and severe hypoalbuminemia). malnutrition may be a causal factor for perforation in patients with achalasia undergoing dilatation.
comparative pharmacodynamics and brain distribution of e-delta 2-valproate and valproate in rats. the e-isomer of 2-unsaturated valproate (e-delta 2-vpa) is a pharmacologically active metabolite of vpa that is less teratogenic and hepatotoxic than its saturated precursor. to assess potential use of e-delta 2-vpa as an alternate to vpa, a dose-response study comparing the anticonvulsant activity and neurotoxicity of e-delta 2-vpa and vpa was conducted in rats using the intravenous (i.v.) pentylenetetrazol (ptz)-infusion threshold seizure model. assay of drug in whole brain and plasma allowed comparison of the drug concentration-effect relationships and the brain distribution characteristics of the two compounds. e-delta 2-vpa was two to three times more potent than vpa in elevating the clonic seizure threshold of ptz, in reference to either plasma or whole-brain drug concentrations. furthermore, much steeper response curves were observed with e-delta 2-vpa as compared with vpa. within the pharmacologic concentration range (defined as ec25 to ec75), e-delta 2-vpa was less neurotoxic than vpa as assessed by behavioral tests. therefore, e-delta 2-vpa has a much more favorable protective index than vpa. at low doses, the concentration ratios of brain to plasma for both e-delta 2-vpa and vpa increased markedly with increasing plasma drug concentration. e-delta 2-vpa and vpa were previously shown to exhibit saturable binding to rat plasma proteins. if we assume that uptake of drug into the cns is limited to the equilibrium plasma free fraction in the brain microvasculature, much of the nonlinear brain distribution features of vpa could be accounted for by saturable drug plasma protein binding. on the other hand, more complex kinetics involving simultaneous saturation of plasma protein binding and blood-to-brain transport are proposed to explain the brain distribution of the unsaturated compound. in addition, the brain-to-free drug concentration ratios for both e-delta 2-vpa and vpa were below unity at high drug-concentration range, consistent with the presence of an efficient efflux mechanism of these compounds from brain.
the long-distance effects of brain lesions: visualization of myelinated pathways in the human brain using polarizing and fluorescence microscopy. we describe several new possibilities for the study of degenerated myelinated tracts in the human central nervous system (cns). the methods are based on the visualization of myelin breakdown products that show birefringence in polarized light and, when stained with nile blue and benzpyrene-3,4, exhibit fluorescence. even after lengthy formalin fixation, the methods permit the localization of anterogradely degenerated tracts in a variety of fiber systems in the brains of patients who died between five and 20 months after the onset of neurological symptoms. particularly the polarizing technique, because of its simplicity, can be added to the usual neuropathological methods for demonstrating the long-distance effects of a brain lesion. as research tools, these methods would also aid in the study of the anatomical substrate of human neurological symptomatology.
sustained calcium channel blockade in the treatment of severe hypertension. a two year experience. thirty-nine patients with severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressure greater than 120 mm hg) predominantly drawn from an inner-city population were placed on nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (gits) for long-term treatment to achieve a sustained diastolic blood pressure less than 95 mm hg. fourteen patients failed to complete 6 months of therapy. for the 25 who remained in treatment for 6 months or more, systolic/diastolic blood pressure reductions were 62 +/- 5/40 +/- 2 mm hg at 6 months; for those followed more than 12 months (n = 18), 58 +/- 7/37 +/- 3 mm hg at 12 months; and for those followed more than 18 months (n = 11), 54 +/- 6/37 +/- 3 mm hg at 18 months. overall, 75% of these severely hypertensive patients were controlled with nifedipine gits alone; 80% required 90 mg/day or more. during the two years of observation, no patient had a severe medical event, and 44% of those who entered remain in treatment. left ventricular hypertrophy, as determined by echocardiography, diminished significantly during the course of treatment. these results indicate nifedipine gits is well-tolerated and effective as monotherapy in the treatment of severe hypertension.
x-linked spinal muscular atrophy (kennedy's syndrome). a kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia. kennedy's syndrome, x-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy, has been described in over 30 families. the characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome, augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia. type iv or type ii hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families. we have studied another family with kennedy's syndrome, this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia. the diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy. however, gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for kennedy's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor, which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities.
acute myocardial infarction resulting from the migration of a greenfield filter. a paraplegic patient who underwent the placement of greenfield filters to prevent pulmonary emboli had one of the filters migrate proximally to the junction of the inferior vena cava and right atrium, then into the right atrium a few months later. this resulted in an acute myocardial infarction by apparently causing an intimal dissection of the posterior descending artery. treatment, follow-up and causes of filter migration are discussed.
coronary angioplasty after coronary bypass surgery: initial results and late outcome in 422 patients. from 1978 to 1988, coronary angioplasty was performed in 422 patients with prior coronary artery bypass surgery (264 patients with native coronary artery angioplasty and 158 patients with graft angioplasty). angioplasty was successful in 84%, unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 11% and complicated by one or more major cardiac events in 5% (myocardial infarction 5%, emergency bypass surgery 2% and death 0.2%). follow-up data were obtained in 99% of 356 patients with successful angioplasty. at a mean of 33 +/- 26 months, 92% were alive, 73% had improvement in angina and 61% were free of angina. one or more of the following late events occurred in 67 patients (19%): myocardial infarction (6%), elective reoperation (13%) and cardiac death (6%). repeat angioplasty was performed in 27%, with a success rate of 89% and no deaths. initial success rates were equal in native vessel versus graft angioplasty, but late outcome was less favorable with the latter because of a higher rate of infarction (11% versus 4%, p less than 0.05) and need for reoperation (19% versus 10%, p less than 0.05). the initial success rate was higher in vein grafts less than 1 year old compared with grafts 1 to 4 years or greater than 4 years after operation (92% versus 85% versus 83%, respectively) and adverse late events were less frequent after angioplasty in recent vein grafts (less than 1 year 13%, 1 to 4 years 35%, greater than 4 years 29%; less than 1 versus greater than 1 year, p less than 0.05).
metoprolol versus thiazide diuretics in hypertension. morbidity results from the maphy study. the present study in hypertensive men (40-64 years old) with untreated diastolic blood pressure above 100 mm hg was aimed at investigating whether metoprolol (n = 1,609) given as initial treatment would lower the risk for coronary events (sudden death and myocardial infarction) more effectively than thiazide diuretics (n = 1,625). a substantial part of this study was the metoprolol arm of the heart attack primary prevention in hypertension (happhy) study. the happhy study was a pooling of the effect of different beta-blockers, mainly metoprolol and atenolol, in which no favorable effect in relative risk was observed for atenolol as compared with diuretics. in the present study, 255 patients suffered definite coronary events during follow-up; 25% of these events were fatal, 39% were acute myocardial infarctions, and 36% were silent myocardial infarctions. the risk for coronary events was significantly lower in patients on metoprolol than in patients on diuretics (111 versus 144 cases, p = 0.001, corresponding to 14.3 versus 18.8 cases/1,000 patient years and a relative risk of 0.76 at the end of the trial; 95% confidence interval 0.58-0.98). this difference in risk has potentially important implications for clinical practice because of the large number of hypertensive patients who are at increased risk for coronary events. because a placebo group, for ethical reasons, could not be included, relative risk can only be expressed in relation to diuretics. there was no difference between the two treatment groups in baseline characteristics, blood pressure during follow-up, or stroke rates. thus, the difference in risk for coronary events is probably mediated via mechanisms other than blood pressure control. however, present data might suggest that different beta-blockers may have different efficacy in preventing coronary events. the reasons for this possibility are as yet unknown.
gastroduodenal mucosa in uraemia: endoscopic and histological correlation and prevalence of helicobacter-like organisms. this study aimed to determine the prevalence of endoscopic and histological gastroduodenitis as well as helicobacter-like organisms in patients with end stage renal failure undergoing maintenance dialysis treatment. a total of 322 out of 422 patients in our dialysis programme underwent endoscopy and gastroduodenal biopsy specimens were taken from 260. endoscopic gastroduodenitis occurred in 158 (49%). histological gastritis occurred in the gastric body or antrum in 134 patients (52%) and duodenitis in 52 (21%). there was no correlation between endoscopic and histological gastritis in contrast to a significant correlation for duodenitis. helicobacter-like organisms occurred in the body or antrum in 81 (31%). their presence was associated with gastritis--in particular acute and acute on chronic gastritis rather than chronic gastritis. patients with gastritis were significantly older than those without (p less than 0.001) and had lower basal and peak acid outputs.
unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation: no causal relation with diabetic autonomic neuropathy objective--to examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy. design--perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation. setting--one routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital. patients--23 patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy, nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia, and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution, without a personal or family history of diabetes. main outcome measures--presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres (acetylcholine sweatspot test), a pupil test, and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mu/kg/h insulin infusion test; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia, which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas. results--there was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. by contrast, in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated (p less than 0.01). the response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls (change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l). the patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response (3.7 pmol/l), but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation (72.4 pmol/l) compared with that of the controls (p less than 0.05). conclusions--unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy. the blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre, rather than classical autonomic neuropathy.
conjugal temporal arteritis. we report the simultaneous occurrence of biopsy-proven temporal arteritis in husband and wife. serologic and viral studies were negative, including viral culture of the wife's temporal artery. the concurrent incidence of giant cell arteritis in a married couple would suggest a common exogenous exposure.
risk for colon adenomas in patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps objective: to determine whether hyperplastic polyps found in the rectosigmoid area of the colon are associated with proximal adenomas, and to judge whether patients with distal hyperplastic polyps found during sigmoidoscopy might benefit from full colonoscopy. design: data on patients having colonoscopy collected prospectively according to a set protocol. the size and location of all polyps were noted, and all polyps were biopsied. setting: two university hospitals. patients: one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy between 31 december 1987 and 31 august 1989. results: of the 970 patients who met eligibility requirements, 274 (28.3%) had adenomas and 108 (11.1%) had hyperplastic polyps. the proportion of patients with distal hyperplastic polyps and proximal adenomas (31.9%) was similar to the proportion of those without distal hyperplastic polyps (23.0%) (crude odds ratio, 1.57; 95% ci, 0.77 to 3.06). after adjusting for age and sex, the results were unchanged (adjusted odds ratio, 1.53; ci, 0.82 to 2.88). patients with distal adenomas, on the other hand, were three times more likely to have proximal adenomas than those without distal adenomas (adjusted odds ratio, 3.42; ci, 1.99 to 5.88). conclusions: distal hyperplastic polyps are not strong predictors of risk for proximal adenomas. based on the magnitude of the risk difference, we do not believe that finding a hyperplastic polyp during sigmoidoscopy justifies doing a full colonoscopy to search for proximal adenomas. because rectosigmoid adenomas are associated with proximal adenomas, however, small polyps seen during sigmoidoscopy should be biopsied to determine their type. colonoscopy should be reserved for patients who are proved to have adenomas.
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma: a phase ii study. forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) intravenously (iv) every 4 hours separated by 1 week. this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2/lak working group. patient eligibility criteria, and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial. forty-six patients were assessable for response. objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients (two complete responses [crs], eight partial responses [prs]) or 22% with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites. the median response duration was 8 months. toxicity was significant; three patients developed myocardial infarction, and one patient died during therapy. overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial. these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans, and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2.
a comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia. pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting prl-lowering activity, allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug. the results of two open-label, randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported. pergolide (taken once a day), was compared with bromocriptine (taken two to four times daily) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of prl levels, the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea, the improvement in sexual function, and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without (trial i; 61 patients) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors (trial ii; 96 patients). both drugs were equally effective in lowering prl levels in both trials. a median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed prl levels in the 61 patients of trial i by more than 80%. during the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96% and 87% of patients, whereas menstruation returned in 90% and 96% of patients, respectively. an equally high efficacy (optimal median dose: 75-100 micrograms pergolide, 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily) was observed in trial ii, although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial i (50% and 58% of patients, respectively). sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients. in addition, tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs. a high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds: nausea, dizziness, vomiting, asthenia, headache, and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine. patients in trial i treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever, vasodilatation, and flu syndrome. conclusions: in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients, a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine. longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily, are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen. this might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia.
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients. a multiparameter approach. forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic, immunocytochemical, flow cytometric (fcm), cytogenetic, and molecular studies. there were 29 lymphomas (15 small non-cleaved cell [sncl], 11 large cell [lcl], one small lymphocytic, and two hodgkin's), 14 reactive hyperplasias, and three "atypical lymphoid proliferations." the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations; six of seven were diploid on fcm, the seventh was hypodiploid. higher proliferative indices (mean, 11.6%) and higher rna indices (mean, 1.2) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity. aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred. nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction. jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa, lambda, b1, and leu-4. nine of 12 sncl were diploid; the mean proliferative index was 25.6% and the mean rna index 2.3. chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped. five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype. large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0% and mean rna index of 2.2. one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation. despite the multiparameter approach, a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates.
the diagnosis and prognosis of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. background. autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is usually caused by a mutant gene at the pkd1 locus on the short arm of chromosome 16, but in about 4 percent of families with the disorder it is caused by unknown mutations elsewhere in the genome. the natural course of the disease in both genetic forms is not well characterized. methods. we studied 17 families with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease to compare presymptomatic diagnosis by ultrasonography with diagnosis by genetic-linkage studies and to relate clinical variation of the disease to whether the pkd1 mutation was implicated. results. in 10 families the disorder was found to cosegregate with polymorphic dna markers flanking the pkd1 locus, in 2 families it did not, and in 5 families linkage could not be determined. in the 10 families with the pkd1 mutation, 46 percent of the members less than 30 years old who had a 50 percent risk of inheriting a mutation had renal cysts, as compared with 11 percent of the members of the two families without linkage (p less than 0.001). in the pkd1 families, all 67 diagnoses made by ultrasonography were confirmed by determination of the genotype as inferred from linkage. forty of 48 members (83 percent) less than 30 years old who inherited the pkd1 mutation had renal cysts. all 27 members 30 years old or older who inherited the mutation had renal cysts, suggesting that the probability of a false negative diagnosis did not exceed 0.13 in this age group (p less than 0.05). the mean (+/- se) age at the onset of end-stage renal disease among members of the pkd1 families was 56.7 +/- 1.9 years, as compared with 69.4 +/- 1.7 years among members with cysts in the families without linkage (p = 0.0025). hypertension and renal impairment were less frequent and occurred later in the families without the pkd1 mutation. conclusions. at present, in most persons with a 50 percent risk of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, imaging techniques are the only mode of reaching a diagnosis before symptoms appear. in such persons a negative ultrasonographic study during early adult life indicates that the likelihood of inheriting a pkd1 mutation is small. in the few who inherit a non-pkd1 mutation for polycystic kidney disease, renal failure is likely to occur relatively late in life.
total left main coronary artery occlusion after aortic aneurysm repair and valve replacement. a 38-year-old woman with complete occlusion of the left main coronary artery secondary to cannulation during aortic valve replacement is presented. the clinical course was characterized by progressive left ventricular dysfunction and congestive heart failure. recognition of this potential problem when it occurs is important as to institute therapeutic measures which may interrupt a patient's progressive clinical deterioration.
inotropic response to norepinephrine is augmented early and maintained late in conscious dogs with perinephritic hypertension. we studied the inotropic responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine in nine conscious chronically instrumented dogs before and early (2-4 weeks) in the development of perinephritic hypertension; seven conscious dogs were studied later (approximately 14 weeks), during a more stable phase of hypertension. perinephritic hypertension was associated with a 24% increase in left ventricular (lv) mass during developing hypertension; no further increase was seen during the stable hypertension phase. lv end-systolic stress was increased early (p less than 0.01) but was normalized later. the lv end-systolic stress-volume relation demonstrated an enhanced contractile response to norepinephrine during developing hypertension, which returned toward control later in the course of stable hypertension. the lv dp/dt responses to norepinephrine (0.4 microgram/kg/min) were significantly greater during developing hypertension (7,509 +/- 337 mm hg/sec, p less than 0.05) compared with the control period (4,737 +/- 286 mm hg/sec) and returned toward the control value during stable hypertension (5,168 +/- 465 mm hg/sec). the enhanced inotropic responses to norepinephrine in developing hypertension were preserved in the presence of ganglionic blockade, suggesting that the augmentation was not mediated via reflex mechanisms. these physiological responses were associated with an increase in beta-adrenergic receptor density, but no significant change in basal or maximal adenylate cyclase stimulation occurred during developing hypertension. thus, in contrast to prior studies in anesthetized animals, the inotropic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation is not depressed in conscious dogs but is enhanced selectively during the development of hypertension and maintained during stable hypertension.
the classification of childhood seizures and epilepsy syndromes. the classification of seizures and the epileptic syndromes is particularly relevant to those who treat children, as most syndromes are age related, with onset between the neonatal and adolescent periods. whereas seizures are characterized by ictal behavior and eeg findings, epilepsy syndromes are defined by seizure type, etiology, age of onset, natural history, possible genetic factors, and prognosis. limitations exist, but attempts to use these classifications typically lead to a better understanding of the patient and allow for more precise evaluation and treatment.
biomechanics of a double prosthetic ligament in the anterior cruciate deficient knee. we have assessed the biomechanical properties of a 'double-bundle' prosthetic ligament replacing the anterior cruciate in cadaver knees. we compared the results with those of single bundle 'over-the-top' and 'through-the-condyle' techniques, performing anterior drawer tests at 20 degrees and 90 degrees knee flexion. the over-the-top reconstruction gave better anteroposterior stability at 20 degrees, while the through-the-condyle repair was more stable at 90 degrees. the double-bundle reconstruction gave practically normal anterior stability at both 20 degrees and 90 degrees.
evaluation of the serum level of immunosuppressive substance in oral cancer patients. the serum level of immunosuppressive substance (is) was studied in 40 patients with primary oral cancer and in 79 patients without cancer. its usefulness was evaluated as a parameter for monitoring therapy as well as recurrence of the tumors. mean values for serum is in patients with cancer and patients without were 687 +/- 284 micrograms/ml and 464 +/- 153 micrograms/ml, respectively. normal healthy controls had a mean value of 431 +/- 105 micrograms/ml, with the cutoff value set at 641 micrograms/ml (mean +2 sd). patients without cancer who had a severe infectious disease showed conspicuously high serum is levels, and these values were closely correlated with their c-reactive protein values. the positive rate of is increased in all patients with oral cancer was 58%. the mean level of serum is in cancer patients was significantly higher than that of the controls (p less than .01), and the level was found to be more elevated as the stage of the disease advanced (stage i to iii, 48%; stage iv, 68%). histologic analysis of the tumor cells in patients with squamous cell carcinoma (scc) showed that the mean serum is level of those who had poorly differentiated scc was much higher (937 +/- 181 micrograms/ml) than that of patients with well-differentiated scc (616 +/- 159 micrograms/ml). patients who had recurrent or metastatic cancer, or those who died from the cancer exhibited marked elevation of the serum is levels, whereas patients who remained free of cancer in the follow-up period showed significantly lower serum is levels. the rise and fall of the serum is level was closely correlated with the disease progression and/or remission. these data strongly suggest that serum is is a useful parameter for monitoring the disease stage as well as the effect of therapy on patients with oral cancer.
indications, timing, and optimal technique for diagnostic angiography and angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction. emergency cardiac catheterization and coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction (mi) have a continuing role in the thrombolytic era. although thrombolytic therapy has revolutionized the treatment of mi, it has significant shortcomings: about 75% of patients with acute mi cannot be treated with thrombolytic agents, 25% of treated patients will have persistent occlusion of the infarct-related artery, 70% will have a residual stenosis greater than or equal to 70%, and 20% of treated patients will experience reocclusion. cardiac catheterization identifies the coronary anatomy for mechanical revascularization and allows the unstable patient to receive special therapy, such as intra-aortic balloon pumping. many large clinical studies have evaluated approaches to coronary angioplasty for acute mi. deferred angioplasty has indisputable advantages over immediate routine angioplasty. direct angioplasty without concomitant thrombolytic therapy has acceptable success and complication rates, so that it can be considered the treatment of choice for acute mi in centers with an angioplasty program if thrombolytic therapy is contraindicated. patients at very low risk may not require cardiac catheterization routinely before discharge, since their good prognosis cannot be improved by invasive evaluation and intervention. emergency surgical revascularization is indicated in a very small percentage of cases.
alfentanil pharmacokinetics in patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery. the pharmacokinetics of alfentanil, 300 micrograms.kg-1 iv, were determined in patients undergoing elective abdominal aortic reconstruction. the mean age (+/- sd) of the patients was 64.3 +/- 7.4 yr; their mean weight was 74.7 +/- 13.8 kg. five patients underwent aneurysm repair and six had aortobifemoral grafting. serum alfentanil concentrations were measured by gas-liquid chromatography in samples drawn at increasing intervals over a 24-hr period. a three-compartment model was fitted to the concentration versus time data. the volume of the central compartment and the volume of distribution at steady state (vdss) were 0.44 +/- 0.022 and 0.63 +/- 0.32 l.kg-1, respectively. total drug clearance was 6.4 = 1.9 ml.min-1.kg-1. the elimination half-time was 3.7 +/- 2.6 hr. patient age was positively correlated with both vdss and elimination half-time. there were no significant correlations between the pharmacokinetic variables and the duration of aortic cross-clamping, the duration of surgery, or the rate or total volume of iv fluids infused intraoperatively. in general surgical patients, the elimination half-time of alfentanil has been reported to be 1.2-2.0 hr. although the elimination half-time of alfentanil was longer in patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery, alfentanil was eliminated much faster than either fentanyl or sufentanil in this patient population.
superiority of retrograde cardioplegia after acute coronary occlusion. because antegrade cardioplegia may limit the distribution of cardioplegia beyond a coronary occlusion, this study was undertaken to determine whether retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia provides superior myocardial protection during revascularization of an acute coronary occlusion. in 20 adult pigs, the second and third diagonal branches were occluded with a snare for 1 1/2 hours. animals were then placed on cardiopulmonary bypass and underwent 30 minutes of ischemic arrest with multidose, potassium, crystalloid cardioplegia. in 10 animals, the cardioplegia was given antegrade through the aortic root, whereas in 10 others, it was given retrograde through the coronary sinus. after the arrest period, the coronary snares were released and all hearts were reperfused for 3 hours. postischemic damage in the myocardium beyond the occlusions was assessed by wall motion scores using two-dimensional echocardiography (4 = normal to -1 = dyskinesia), the change in myocardial ph from preischemia, and the area of necrosis/area of risk (histochemical staining). hearts protected with retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia had less tissue acidosis (change in ph = 0.08 +/- 0.03 versus 0.41 +/- 0.13; p less than 0.05), higher wall motion scores (2.0 +/- 0.6 versus 1.3 +/- 0.3; not significant), and less myocardial necrosis (43.4% +/- 3.6% versus 73.3% +/- 3.5%; p less than 0.0001). we conclude that retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia provides more optimal myocardial protection than is possible with antegrade cardioplegia after revascularization of an acute coronary occlusion.
intestinal vascular sensitivity to vasopressin in portal hypertensive rats. the intestinal vascular responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was evaluated in rats with chronic portal hypertension. male sprague-dawley rats were made portal hypertensive by stenosis of the portal vein. ten to twelve days after the induction of chronic portal hypertension, the responsiveness of the small intestinal circulation to cumulative doses of vasopressin was evaluated using an isolated pump-perfused small intestinal preparation. the ed50 for maximal vasoconstriction was increased twofold in portal hypertensive rats compared with control rats. to determine if the impaired responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was related to the hyperglucagonemia of chronic portal hypertension, plasma glucagon levels were elevated in normal rats to levels previously measured in portal hypertensive rats (i.e. approximately 450 pg/ml), and the dose response studies were repeated. glucagon significantly attenuated the responsiveness of the intestinal vasculature to vasopressin. equipotent doses of nitroprusside also attenuated intestinal vascular responsiveness to vasopressin. the results indicate that there is a reduced vascular sensitivity to vasopressin in the intestine of portal hypertensive animals and suggest that elevations in circulating vasodilators in portal hypertensive conditions may partially explain this altered vascular responsiveness.
axillosubclavian vein thrombosis produced by retrosternal thyroid. several causes of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis have been described. trauma to the subclavian vein by pacemaker wires or central venous lines as well as the so-called effort thrombosis have been recognized as frequently diagnosed precipitating factors. a patient is herein presented with thrombosis of the subclavian vein caused by a giant substernal thyroid compressing the innominate vein.
abdominal trauma in pregnancy. when is fetal monitoring necessary? the type and duration of observation and monitoring of mother and fetus after abdominal trauma are dependent on gestational age and severity of trauma. fetal monitoring is usually not required when the fetus is not viable; the primary consideration is the safety of the mother. when the fetus is viable, 24-hour inpatient fetal monitoring is indicated in cases of major trauma, even when no symptoms of injury are obvious.
symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trials. the possible benefit of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is being evaluated in three major clinical trials. to date, the european carotid surgery trial has randomized 2,200 patients, 30% of whom have a carotid stenosis of greater than 70% appropriate to their symptoms. the north american symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trial has randomized 1,000 patients, of whom more than half have this severity of appropriate stenosis. quality control and the evaluation of outcome events in this trial is achieved by a three-tier review, including review by medical and surgical adjudicators who are blinded to the treatment arm of each patient. baseline characteristics of the patients eligible but not randomized are similar to those of patients who have been randomized. two percent of the patients randomized to the surgical arm have declined surgery and crossed over to the medical arm, and 3% have elected surgery after randomization to the medical arm. both of these studies, as well as a veterans administration trial, are continuing to randomize patients.
shared idiotype expression by chronic lymphocytic leukemia and b-cell lymphoma. antiidiotype (id) antibodies identify unique determinants within the surface immunoglobulin (ig) that are present on b-cell tumors. anti-ids have been used for diagnosis and therapy of b-cell lymphoma and leukemia. a panel of 29 anti-id monoclonal antibodies (moabs) that recognize shared idiotypes (sids) on b-cell lymphomas was tested for reactivity with both b-cell leukemias and lymphomas. ten of 40 (25%) cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) reacted with at least one of the 29 anti-sid moabs. three cases reacted with more than one anti-sid moab, but there was no repetitive pattern of a single anti-sid moab reacting with a large proportion of cll cases. in contrast, for b-cell lymphoma, in which 11 of 31 (36%) cases reacted, one anti-sid (b4-1) reacted with five of the positive cases; all were diffuse histology. restricted anti-sid reactivity may lead to important insights into the etiology of certain b-cell lymphomas. in addition, these anti-sids may obviate the need to develop "tailor-made" antibodies for individual patients.
cardiomyopathy associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine. the smoking of crystal methamphetamine, or "ice," is a growing drug abuse problem in the united states. the toxic effects of methamphetamine smoking have not been well described. we describe two patients with cardiovascular toxic effects associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine. in our first patient, the use of smokeable methamphetamine was associated with the subsequent development of pulmonary edema and a dilated cardiomyopathy. in our second patient, the smoking of crystal methamphetamine likely produced diffuse vasospasm that resulted in acute myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, and death. the recognition of potentially lethal cardiac complications associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine is of extreme significance and should be emphasized to potential abusers of this drug.
a hematologist's view of contrast media, clotting in angiography syringes and thrombosis during coronary angiography. while ionic contrast media (cm) are stronger anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents, both nonionic and ionic cm retard clotting, fibrinopeptide a generation and platelet aggregation (at least by born-o'brien aggregometry). thus, nonionic cm do not cause clots and thrombi. rather, the driving force for clot or thrombus formation, when it occurs, is blood contact with and activation by the foreign surface of a syringe or catheter itself. a marked enhancement of clotting by glass syringes in comparison to plastic ones supports this view. blood in any syringe or catheter, therefore, will clot more slowly in the presence of nonionic or ionic cm, the inhibitory effects of the latter being more profound. with respect to models of thrombosis at sites of vascular injury or stenosis, the antithrombotic effects of cm may either be transient owing to the dynamic nature of blood flow (local endothelial cell denudation model), or as in the case of ionic cm, actually to enhance local platelet aggregation (stenosis model). in these situations, preservation of the antithrombotic functions of endothelium with nonionic cm may be quite critical.
total knee arthroplasty in obese patients. we examined 182 patients (257 knees) who had had a total knee arthroplasty two to five six years earlier. the patients were grouped into five weight classes. eighteen patients (twenty-seven knees) were considered moderately obese and twelve patients (twenty-seven knees), severely obese. the results in all but four knees were rated excellent or good. one patient needed a revision procedure for late infection, and the result was rated poor. three results were rated fair. there was no discernible difference in the over-all scores among the five weight groups. however, 30 per cent of the knees of the moderately and severely obese patients had patellofemoral symptoms, whereas the incidence was 14 per cent in the other groups (p less than 0.03). no clear-cut association was found between obesity and either thrombophlebitis or complications related to the wound.
neurinoma in the cavernous sinus: report of two cases. two cases of trigeminal neurinoma located solely in the cavernous sinus are reported. preoperatively, magnetic resonance imaging provided the accurate localization of the lesions, allowing precise planning of the surgical approach, that is, a subtemporal lateral approach and a pterional superior approach, respectively. the neurinomas inside the cavernous sinus were removed successfully, and the patients developed no new neurological deficits except for anesthesia in the 1st division of the trigeminal nerve. the characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings of trigeminal neurinoma in the cavernous sinus are presented, and the different surgical approaches are discussed.
physical activity, opportunity for reinfection, and sibling history of heart disease as risk factors for chagas' cardiopathy. a case-control study was conducted to examine whether physical activity, sibling history of heart disease (hhd), and length of residence in an area endemic for chagas' disease were associated with the risk of developing chagas' cardiopathy. two hundred forty-seven cases of chagas' heart disease and 345 seropositive subjects with normal ecg (controls) were selected in a population survey in goiania, brazil. prevalence ratios for exposure variables were estimated for cases in relation to controls and for subgroups of seropositives with selected ecg abnormalities in relation to controls. increasing age and male sex were consistently and significantly related to an increased risk of ecg abnormalities. hhd was significantly associated with ecg alterations in 3 of the 5 comparison subgroups (any ecg alteration, right bundle branch block, and left anterior hemiblock). no association was found between length of residence in an area endemic, physical activity, and ecg abnormalities. a sample of 529 seronegative subjects were also examined and the interaction between exposure variables and seropositivity was tested to assess whether the associations found were specific for seropositives. males were at greater risk of any ecg alteration and left anterior hemiblock in relation to females if they were seropositive. an increasing risk of ventricular premature beats with age was clearer for seropositive than for seronegative subjects. subjects with hhd were at an increased risk of ecg abnormalities and this was greater in those with a positive serological test (p less than 0.05). the findings suggest a possible geographical clustering or a familial aggregation of cases of chagas' heart disease.
a hepatoblastoma originating in the caudate lobe radically resected with the inferior vena cava. complete resection of a rare hepatoblastoma in the caudate lobe, involving the inferior vena cava (ivc), is reported. after systemic chemotherapy, a 5-year-old child underwent exploratory laparotomy at another hospital, but resection was not attempted because the tumor in the caudate lobe had extensively invaded the retrohepatic ivc. however, because not only the lack of distant metastases but also the establishment of extrahepatic collaterals were confirmed by imaging, we thought it was possible to radically resect the tumor. we successfully performed an extended left hepatic lobectomy including total excision of the caudate lobe and the involved portion of the ivc. although we did not reconstruct the ivc, no clinical manifestations arising from caval congestion were seen. the serum alpha-fetoprotein value declined below the normal limit. our experience with this case has introduced a radical resectability for hepatic malignancy in the caudate lobe, even if it has extended into the ivc.
experimental pericardial effusion: relation of abnormal respiratory variation in mitral flow velocity to hemodynamics and diastolic right heart collapse pericardial effusion is associated with an abnormal increase in respiratory variation in mitral flow velocity. however, the relation of the changes in flow velocity to pericardial pressure, hemodynamics and two-dimensional echocardiographic findings is not established. therefore, 11 sedated dogs with extensive hemodynamic instrumentation were studied with two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography during four stages of progressively larger pericardial effusion. during all stages of effusion, respiratory variation in peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time was increased compared with baseline (p less than 0.05). this increase was seen at the earliest stage of effusion (mean pericardial pressure 4.2 +/- 1.4 versus -0.8 +/- 0.9 mm hg at baseline, p less than 0.05), and preceded the appearance of unequivocal diastolic right heart collapse in every dog. maximal respiratory variation coincided with the appearance of right atrial collapse (mean pericardial pressure 7.1 +/- 2.4 mm hg; mean inspiratory decrease in aortic pressure 9.5 +/- 2.6 mm hg; mean aortic pressure 88.2 +/- 15.2 versus 102.2 +/- 11.2 mm hg at baseline, p less than 0.05; and cardiac output 3.8 +/- 1.2 versus 5.5 +/- 1.3 liters/min at baseline, p less than 0.05), but did not increase at stages associated with more severe hemodynamic compromise. in addition, the respiratory changes in peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole were associated with simultaneous changes in the diastolic transmitral pressure gradient. it is concluded that in this model of acute pericardial effusion 1) increased respiratory variation in early diastolic mitral flow velocity, peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time occurs almost immediately as pericardial pressure increases and persists at all stages of increasing pericardial effusion; 2) the abnormal respiratory variation occurs before equalization of intracardiac pressures and before the onset of unequivocal right heart collapse; 3) the respiratory variation occurs as a result of changes in the diastolic transmitral pressure gradient; and 4) the magnitude of the respiratory change is not necessarily predictive of pericardial pressure or severity of hemodynamic compromise, especially at the more severe stages of pericardial effusion.
dna analysis of multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas. the authors used retrospective quantitative dna analysis to study interrelationships between multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas in seven patients. dna content was determined by image analysis on feulgen-stained nuclear smears prepared from multiple paraffin blocks from each tumor. tumors were unilateral in four cases and bilateral in three. ten tumors had homogeneous, and four heterogeneous dna stemlines. intertumoral heterogeneity in four cases suggested multifocal origin. identical dna aneuploid indices in bilateral tumors in one case suggested metastasis from a solitary origin. abnormal dna content and heterogeneous populations began to appear in the size range 2.0 to 5.0 cm. all tumors over 5.0 cm contained nondiploid populations. although the interrelationships between these multiple synchronous neoplasms are not entirely clear, the dna analysis suggests that the occurrence of nondiploid stemlines and heterogeneous dna content may parallel both tumor growth and more aggressive behavior.
clinical presentation of suspected malignant hyperthermia during anaesthesia in 402 probands. as anaesthetists have become more aware of malignant hyperthermia the mortality rate has fallen, but concommitantly the number of dubious and aborted cases has increased. all probands who developed a suspected malignant hyperthermia reaction during anaesthesia and subsequently underwent muscle biopsy were classified according to the clinical presentation. a probability for malignant hyperthermia can be calculated, using the classification, for each type of clinical presentation; this varied from 0.96 to 0.07. certain clinical features were found to be of more value as predictors than others; these included a high creative kinase and myoglobinuria. the accuracy of prediction depends on a clear contemporaneous description of the clinical events.
correlation between essential tremor and migraine headache. the relationship between essential tremor (et) and migraine was investigated in a prospective study. in a group of 74 et patients 36.5% had migraine compared with 17.7% of 102 control subjects without tremor. in a group of 58 patients with migraine 17.2% had et compared with 1.2% of 85 controls without migraine. the prevalence of et in migraine controls was greater than controls without migraine (22% compared with 1%; p = 0.002). it is concluded that there is an association between essential tremor and migraine.
a case of lisinopril-induced lithium toxicity we describe a patient who developed lithium toxicity when lisinopril was substituted for clonidine. possible mechanisms of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor-induced lithium toxicity are discussed. aggressive serum lithium concentration monitoring and a reduction in the dose of lithium is advised when using ace inhibitors because of disturbances and shifts in fluid and electrolyte balance.
dissociation of changes in cardiovascular mass and performance with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in wistar-kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats. the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on cardiovascular mass and function were measured in three groups of 22 week old male wistar-kyoto normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats treated with cgs-16617, cilazapril or quinapril. left ventricular performance was assessed by electromagnetic flow meter during rapid whole blood infusion before and after arterial pressure and increased abruptly with aortic snare; aortic distensibility also was assessed in vitro. the systemic hemodynamic effects of these three agents were similar, yet their structural effects varied. although left ventricular and aortic masses diminished and right ventricular mass remained unchanged (with all three agents) in the spontaneously hypertensive rats, cgs-11617 and cilazapril also reduced left ventricular mass in the normotensive wistar-kyoto rats without changing aortic mass. all three agents improved aortic distensibility whether or not mass was decreased. left ventricular structural changes were associated with variable changes in pumping ability. these data show that reduced mass associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor treatment was not consistent in ventricles and aorta, that a dissociation exists between structural and functional changes and that reduction of cardiac mass alone does not relate to changes in chamber mass or in function. thus, biologic and pharmacodynamic differences exist among angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as well as between classes of antihypertensive agents.
features of "near-death experience" in relation to whether or not patients were near death the medical records of 58 patients, most of whom believed they were near death during an illness or after an injury and all of whom later remembered unusual experiences occurring at the time, were examined. 28 patients were judged to have been so close to death that they would have died without medical intervention; the other 30 patients were not in danger of dying although most of them thought they were. patients of both groups reported closely similar experiences but patients who really were close to death were more likely than those who were not to report an enhanced perception of light and enhanced cognitive powers. the claim of enhancement of cognitive functions despite the likelihood that brain function had probably become disturbed and possibly diminished, deserves further investigation.
silent myocardial ischemia during rehabilitation for cerebrovascular disease. in asymptomatic patients the importance of silent ischemic st-t wave changes on holter monitoring is known to be a significant predictive variable for one-year mortality of postmyocardial infarction patients. this case report represents the uses of ambulatory ecg to detect ischemic st changes in patients who have had recent strokes. the cases reported here of silent myocardiac ischemia in stroke patients reflect previous reports in which 70% of the ischemic episodes in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease are not associated with angina and in which approximately 10% to 15% of acute myocardial infarctions are silent. we now believe that the incidence of "silent" ischemia may be precipitated in poststroke patients during their rehabilitation program. this belief is supported by two main factors. first, a high level of personally relevant mental stress exists which activates the sympathoadrenal system, which may lead to myocardial ischemia. second, some stroke patients become aphasic and are unable to communicate adequately even if they experience angina symptoms. we have found that poststroke, most patients could not undergo exercise treadmill testing secondary to a variety of factors: inability to coordinate limbs, poor endurance, inability to follow directions, and/or lack of attention. we now propose that 24-hour monitoring for st-t wave changes poststroke should be considered as part of a vigorous investigation for myocardial ischemia during the rehabilitation of these patients because they have an increased risk of cardiac morbidity.
recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor delta gene in peripheral t cell lymphomas. recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor (tcr) delta-chain gene were studied in 37 cases of peripheral t cell lymphoma (ptcl) and related to their clinical presentation and the expression of the alpha beta or gamma delta heterodimers as determined by immunostaining of frozen tissue samples. there were 22 cases of alpha beta, 5 cases of gamma delta, and 10 cases of silent tcr expressing neither the alpha beta nor gamma delta tcr. 5 different probes were used to examine the delta locus. the 22 cases of alpha beta ptcl displayed biallelic and monoallelic deletions; a monoallelic v delta 1 j delta 1 rearrangement was observed in 1 case and a monoallelic germ line configuration in 7 cases. the 5 cases of gamma delta ptcl displayed biallelic rearrangements: the productive rearrangements could be ascribed to v delta 1j delta 1 joining in 3 cases and vj delta 1 joining in 2 cases according to the combined pattern of dna hybridization with the appropriate probes and of cell reactivity with the tcr delta-1, delta tcs-1, and anti-v delta 2 monoclonal antibodies. in the vj delta 1 joining, the rearranged v segments were located between v delta 1 and v delta 2. interestingly, in the third group of 10 cases of silent ptcl, 5 cases were found to have a tcr gene configuration identical to that in the tcr alpha beta ptcl, as demonstrated by biallelic delta gene deletion. these 5 cases were cd3 positive. the 5 remaining cases showed a monoallelic delta gene rearrangement with a monoallelic germ line configuration in 4 and a monoallelic deletion in 1. four of these cases were cd3 negative, which was consistent with an immature genotype the tcr commitent of which could not be ascertained. finally, tcr gamma delta ptcl consisted of a distinct clinical morphological and molecular entity whereas tcr alpha beta and silent ptcl had a similar presentation.
next-day memory impairment with triazolam use the prevalence, rate, and degree of memory impairment for next-day activities during a short, intermittent course of bedtime doses of triazolam, temazepam, and placebo were assessed in a double-blind parallel-group study. 5 of the 6 subjects in the triazolam group reported at least one episode of next-day memory impairment/amnesia, with a total of 12 episodes being reported for the 30 subject-drug nights (a rate of 40%). in the temazepam group there were no such episodes of memory impairment. immediate and delayed recall were also tested and related to whether active drug or placebo had been taken the night before. impairment of delayed recall was significantly and several times greater than that in the temazepam or placebo groups. next-day memory impairment/amnesia after a bedtime dose of triazolam tended to increase with continued or intermittent drug use. cognitive impairments associated with triazolam probably represent a spectrum of organic brain dysfunction, with memory impairment/amnesia and confusion being the commonest, and milder manifestations and hallucinations and delusions the more severe and less common, features.
effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter, regional cerebral blood flow, and brain structure in cats. temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations; however, repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery. the present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings. initially, a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats. pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging, regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography, and cerebral edema and infarction were observed. in the 20-minute occlusion group, no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation. in the 1-hour occlusion group, pial arteries were dilated by 45%, and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values. the extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 +/- 7.5% (se) and infarction was 34.5 +/- 9.5% (se) of the hemisphere. in the second experiment, three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats. in 10 of them, thiopental (40 mg/kg) was used to protect the brain. in the group without barbiturate treatment, pial arteries were dilated by 40% at the end of experiment, regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70% compared with single 20-minute occlusion, cerebral edema was 19.5 +/- 8.1% (se), and infarction was 8.1 +/- 3.7% (se) of the hemisphere. in the treated group, these were only trivial changes. the effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage, and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary.
cutaneous vasculitis associated with pheochromocytoma. we describe a patient who presented with constitutional symptoms, severe hypertension, and purpuric lesions over the knees, thighs, and penis. the patient was eventually diagnosed as having multiple endocrine neoplasia type ii, with cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis. the cutaneous vasculitis persisted despite treatment with high-dose systemic corticosteroids, but rapidly resolved after the removal of bilateral pheochromocytomas. this case demonstrates cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis in association with pheochromocytoma.
extended neck dissection. from the time crile described radical neck dissection in 1906, this surgical procedure became popular in the management of metastatic cancer in the neck. over the past two decades, the modified neck dissection has been effectively utilized for conservation of function and cosmesis while achieving the same oncologic goals. however, there are several instances where the above standard procedures are not adequate for resection of malignant tumors. although there is a definite trend toward conservation procedures, extended neck dissection is often necessary especially in patients with n2 and n3 disease. apart from the standard structures removed in radical neck dissection, the other structures removed in extended neck dissection include skin, the digastric muscle, hypoglossal nerve, vagus nerve, sympathetic chain, ramus mandibularis, carotid artery, tracheo-esophageal nodes, etc. over the past seven years, we have performed 40 extended neck dissections. all the patients had n2 or n3 disease in the neck. nine patients had unknown primaries. thirteen patients had their primary tumors in the oral cavity and 11 in the laryngopharynx. five patients had primary tumor in the salivary glands and two patients had metastatic melanoma. patients who underwent extensive skin excision had pectoralis myocutaneous flap reconstruction. all patients received postoperative radiation therapy. one patient died of cardiac problems 4 weeks after operation. local control was achieved in 70%. the most difficult region for local control was the disease behind the mastoid process, and the most difficult problems were patients with involvement of the subdermal lymphatics. our data suggests that there are definite situations where extended neck dissection is indicated with satisfactory local control of the nodal disease.
coexpression of galanin and adrenocorticotropic hormone in human pituitary and pituitary adenomas. galanin is a neuropeptide that regulates the secretion of several pituitary hormones, including prolactin (prl) and growth hormone (gh). galaninlike immunoreactivity (gal-ir) and galanin mrna in the rat anterior pituitary is cell lineage specific, with predominant expression in lactotrophs and somatotrophs. the authors examined the cellular distribution of human gal-ir in seven normal postmortem pituitaries and 62 pituitary tumors by immunoperoxidase staining. in contrast to the rat, gal-ir in human anterior pituitaries was present in corticotrophs scattered throughout the gland, but not in lactotrophs, somatotrophs, thyrotrophs, or gonadotrophs. distinct gal-ir also was present in hyperplastic and neoplastic corticotrophs in 19 of 22 patients with cushing's disease. in noncorticotroph cell tumors, unequivocal gal-ir was present in 5 of 11 gh-secreting tumors associated with clinical acromegaly, 9 of 18 nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas, and 2 of 14 prolactinomas. of these galanin-positive tumors, four of the five gh-secreting adenomas, six of the nine nonfunctioning adenomas, and both of the prolactinomas also contained adrenocorticotropic hormone immunoreactivity (acth-ir). immunostaining and in situ hybridization on adjacent sections using an 35s-labeled probe complementary to human galanin mrna demonstrated predominant galanin expression in normal corticotrophs. immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the presence of gal-ir in pituitary cells characteristic of corticotrophs in both normal and neoplastic pituitaries. thus, as in the rat, galanin gene expression in the human pituitary is cell-type specific. unlike the rat, however, human galanin gene expression is restricted to the corticotroph lineage. studies of tumors confirmed the observed coexpression of galanin and adrenocorticotropic hormone. the divergent cell type specificity of galanin production in human and rat pituitaries reflects different patterns of gene activation in these two species. in addition, these results suggest that galanin in the human pituitary may participate locally in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
pelvic pain: lessons from anatomy and physiology. pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department. for physiologic reasons, pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ, and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize. on the other hand, differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis. the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain, and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation, ischemia, or colic. a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain.
lewis system alterations in gastric carcinogenesis. alterations in the expression of type 1 blood group-related antigens (lewis a and b) were examined immunohistochemically in 371 consecutives gastric biopsy and 80 surgical specimens from patients of gastric carcinoma. the abh and lewis phenotype and secretor status of the patients were correlated with histologic findings. an anomalous expression of lewis a antigen was found in 88 of 249 gastric biopsy specimens of lewis (a-b+) phenotype patients. the prevalence of this anomaly increased with the evolution of the premalignant process, in agreement with the commonly accepted model of gastric carcinogenesis. thus, anomalous lewis a antigen appeared in 66.6% of gastric dysplasia cases, in 64.6% of intestinal metaplasia, in 15.4% of atrophic gastritis, and in 7.4% of superficial gastritis. no alterations were found in subjects with normal gastric mucosa. forty-seven of the 49 lewis (a-b+) phenotype gastric carcinoma patients showed antigenic alterations in tumor cells (anomalous lewis a antigen in 36 and loss of lewis antigens in 11). in 26 of these gastric specimens an anomalous lewis a antigen was present in areas of intestinal metaplasia and/or dysplasia away from the area of neoplastic transformation. the expression of lewis a antigen in lewis (a-b+) phenotype patients is a frequent phenomenon in gastric neoplastic cells and could result from the blocked synthesis of lewis b antigen with accumulation of its precursors. these findings suggest that, during gastric carcinogenesis, antigenic alterations may precede neoplastic transformation. an anomalous lewis a antigen could constitute a significant index of severity of the histologic lesion and contribute to identifying high-risk individuals.
pigmented spindle cell naevus. we report 22 cases of pigmented spindle cell naevus (pscn). the usual appearance of these naevi is that of a heavily pigmented papule found mostly on the legs of young patients. histologically, pscn was characterized by symmetrical proliferation of spindle-shaped pigmented melanocytes grouped in large junctional nests. pagetoid spread of single cells in the overlying epidermis was frequently found. in our opinion, pscn is a distinctive benign acquired melanocytic naevus that in the past has been frequently misdiagnosed as atypical spitz naevi or malignant melanoma.
ureteral triplication and ureterocele: report of 3 cases and review of the literature. we report 3 cases of ureterocele associated with ureteral triplication and review the literature. ureteral triplication was type i in 2 patients and type ii in 1. diagnosis was established preoperatively in 2 cases and intraoperatively in 1. all patients were initially treated by upper pole partial nephrectomy and aspiration of the ureterocele, leaving the ureteral stump open in the retroperitoneum. subsequent excision of the ureterocele and ureteral reimplantation for persistent ipsilateral vesicoureteral reflux and recurrent urinary tract infections were required in 2 cases.
visualization of acute pulmonary emboli by transesophageal echocardiography. this report describes a patient who became hypoxic and hypotensive while awaiting cardiac surgery. an urgent transesophageal echocardiogram in the operating room showed a mass at the junction of the main and right pulmonary arteries consistent with thrombus. the thrombus was removed surgically, and the patient then had a successful aortic valve replacement. transesophageal echocardiography is therefore useful in the evaluation of the critically ill patient.
treatment of anorectal abscess with or without primary fistulectomy. results of a prospective randomized trial. to determine whether primary fistulectomy should be performed or not at the time of incision and drainage, a prospective, randomized study in 70 patients with anorectal abscess was conducted. thirty-six patients underwent incision, drainage and fistulectomy with primary partial internal spincterectomy (group i), whereas in 34 patients anorectal abscess was treated by incision and drainage alone (group ii). after a median follow-up of 42.5 months, the combined recurrence or persistence rate was 2.9 percent in group i and 40.6 percent in group ii (p less than 0.0003, log-rank test). recurrent abscesses or persistent fistulas were treated by secondary partial internal sphincterectomy. comparing anal continence before and 1 year after definite treatment, we found increased anal function disturbances in 39.4 percent of the patients in group i and in 21.4 percent of the patients in group ii (p less than 0.106, fisher-exact test). the combined recurrence or persistence rate of 40.6 percent indicates that more than half of the patients with anorectal abscess will have no further problems after simple incision and drainage. this finding, as well as the increased anal function disturbances after partial internal sphincterectomy (either primary or secondary) are the main reasons to reserve fistulectomy as a second stage procedure if necessary.
restoration by insulin of impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity of platelets in acute ischemic heart disease. treatment of normal platelet-rich plasma with a physiological amount of insulin (100 microunits/ml, optimum concentration) for 3 hours at 23 degrees c stimulated the binding of prostaglandin e1 by more than twofold (3,940 +/- 250 sites/10(8) platelets) compared with the nontreated, control platelet-rich plasma (1,590 +/- 265 sites/10(8) platelets). after platelet-rich plasma from patients with acute ischemic heart disease (n = 43), whose platelets showed impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity (850 +/- 100 sites/10(8) platelets), was incubated with insulin (optimum amounts varied from 100 to 200 microunits/ml), the binding of the prostanoid was restored to normal levels (1,790 +/- 140 sites/10(8) platelets) in 75% of the cases. twenty-five percent of the patients did not respond to the stimulatory effect of insulin. the increased binding of the prostanoid to the insulin-treated platelets also resulted in increased cyclic amp levels both in normal subjects (44.14 +/- 3.1 pmol/10(8) [insulin-treated] platelets versus 16.35 +/- 2.91 pmol/10(8) [control] platelets) and in patients with acute ischemic heart disease (23.87 +/- 4.1 pmol/10(8) [insulin-treated] platelets versus 7.70 +/- 2.0 pmol/10(8) [control] platelets) by the prostanoid (1.0 microm). the treatment of platelet-rich plasma with the hormone decreased the minimum inhibitory concentration of the prostanoid from 34 +/- 14 to 15 +/- 9 nm (p less than 0.001) in the case of normal volunteers and from 49 +/- 15 to 32 +/- 11 nm (p = 0.002) in the case of "responder" patients. insulin did not produce any effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation by the prostaglandin in "nonresponder" patients. in the follow-up study, although the stimulatory effects of insulin on platelets from responder patients were improved to normal levels, the platelets from the nonresponder patients remained persistently unresponsive to the effect of the hormone.
a case of cecocolic intussusception with complete invagination and intussusception of the appendix with villous adenoma. villous adenoma of the appendix is a rare neoplasm and intussusception of the appendix is a rare pathologic condition. a very rare case seen in a 35-year-old male with pain in the right lateral abdomen is reported. in this patient, the appendix along with the villous adenoma intussuscepted and invaginated into the cecal lumen, and presented as cecocolic intussusception. a polypoid lesion was diagnosed in the cecum by fiberoptic colonoscopy. unlike polypoid lesions at other sites in the large intestine, polypoid lesions of the cecum may accompany intussusception and invagination of the appendix. consequently, caution is required in performing endoscopic polypectomy in cases of polypoid lesions of the cecum.
mucosal characteristics of pelvic ileal pouches. this study aimed to investigate the degree of colonic metaplasia in ileo - anal pouches. biopsy specimens from 25 patients with functioning pouches, eight of whom had pouchitis, were studied using routine histology, mucosal morphometry, mucin histochemistry, and immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies directed towards a 40kd colonic protein and a small bowel specific disaccharidase-sucrase isomaltase. thirteen patients (including all eight with pouchitis) had subtotal or total villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia. in this group, nine had colorectal type sulphomucin and the 40kd colonic protein was detected in two. these changes were not observed in patients with less severe villous abnormalities. sucrase-isomaltase activity was, however, present in all 25 pouch specimens. we conclude that although some ileal pouches acquire certain colonic characteristics, complete colonic metaplasia does not occur.
clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction, and survivors of sudden ischemic death occurring during and after sport. the clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of 42 well-conditioned subjects with an acute ischemic event related to sport are reported. five patients had unstable angina, 25 had acute myocardial infarction (ami), and 12 were resuscitated victims of sudden ischemic death. twenty-two events occurred during sport (group a) and 20 after sport (group b). there were two women and 40 men. the mean age was 46 years (range 25 to 65). twelve out of 30 patients who smoked cigarettes had an adjunctive risk factor for coronary artery disease. twelve others (28%) had no identifiable risk factor. prodromal cardiac symptoms were detected in three patients (group a). two patients had previous myocardial infarction (group b). coronary angiography was performed acutely in 39 patients. the distribution of the ischemia-related coronary artery was comparable in both groups. the lesion morphology of 35 culprit coronary arteries was described as concentric in six patients and eccentric with regular borders (type i lesion) in 11 and irregular borders (type ii lesion) in 18. eccentric lesions consistent with ruptured plaques prevailed in both groups. associated coronary artery disease was present in 10 patients. there was no relationship between the number of risk factors and the extent of diseased coronary arteries. clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina, ami, and sudden death either during or after sport are similar and indicate a common pathogenesis. the probable mechanism of a coronary event related to sport is exercise-induced plaque rupture. in most instances such an event is unexpected and unpredictable. identification of some subjects at risk is possible.
clinical evaluation of an algorithm for the interpretation of hyperamylasemia. total amylase concentration in serum continues to be widely determined in the diagnosis of acute pancreatic disease. accumulated experience has made clear, however, that this determination has distinct limitations. consequently, the knowledge of the origin of hyperamylasemia may have an important influence on treatment, hospitalization, and extent of clinical investigations. we undertook a logical and systematic approach to the interpretation of hyperamylasemia through the use of an algorithm that can be applied in clinical situations without the need for the integration of radiologic procedures or clinical data. the proposed algorithm was tested for effectiveness in 97 consecutive hospitalized patients with hyperamylasemia (amylase level greater than twice the upper reference limit) for a 2-year period. the majority (52.5%) of these patients had acute pancreatitis. the algorithm assigned the correct diagnostic categories in 95.8% of cases, with a disagreement between patient diagnosis and algorithm-generated diagnosis in only four cases. these four patients (two with acute biliary disease, one with bacterial peritonitis, and one with chronic renal failure) had pancreatic lipase values greater than five times the upper reference limit, so that the algorithm classified their condition as acute pancreatitis. the clinical trial indicated that the proposed decision tree, which requires only knowledge of biochemical data that are readily available, is useful in the evaluation of elevated amylase activity and facilitates arrival at a definitive diagnosis.
cerebrovascular complications of inflammatory bowel disease. there is an increased incidence of central nervous system thromboembolic events in young patients with inflammatory bowel disease. a 33-yr-old woman previously diagnosed with pseudotumor cerebri suffered superior sagittal and transverse sinus thromboses during a severe flare of ulcerative colitis. these were documented on contrast computed tomographic (ct) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans. stroke may be more common in patients with ulcerative colitis than in patients with crohn's disease; arterial disease is more prevalent than venous and dural sinus disease, and is correlated with an active phase of inflammatory bowel disease. it is difficult to assess whether there is a relationship to concurrent steroid use, and a consistent relationship to duration of inflammatory bowel disease or to other extraintestinal manifestations is not apparent.
two urokinase dose regimens in native arterial and graft occlusions: initial results of a prospective, randomized clinical trial. the effects of two urokinase (uk) dose regimens on lysis time, lytic success, primary clinical success, and frequency of complications of peripheral thrombolysis were compared. seventy-two intraarterial uk infusions were performed by means of standard catheter-directed infusion techniques in 63 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial or bypass graft occlusions. patients were prospectively randomized to high-dose (250,000 u/h for 4 hours and then 125,000 u/h) or low-dose (50,000 u/h) regimens. the mean time to complete lysis was 20.8, 26.0, 16.5, and 18.2 hours for the high-dose artery, low-dose artery, high-dose graft, and low-dose graft groups, respectively (p was not significant). respective mean infusion durations were 27.1, 35.4, 22.2, and 25.3 hours. clinical success was achieved in 65%-85% of cases. the frequency of complications was equivalent between groups, except for a higher frequency of minor bleeding complications in the high-dose group. the two urokinase dose regimens studied were equally effective in enabling peripheral thrombolysis.
clinical controversies surrounding thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. the treatment of acute myocardial infarction has changed tremendously in the past decade because thrombolytic therapy has become the treatment of choice for the patient with acute myocardial infarction. although many issues have been resolved, several controversial issues remain unresolved. this article addresses thrombolytic agents in terms of their superiority in achieving infarct vessel patency and mortality reduction as well as the role of thrombolysis in patients who present with chest pain of greater than 6 hours' duration, who are elderly, and who have an inferior infarction.
a 170-kda membrane-bound protease is associated with the expression of invasiveness by human malignant melanoma cells. malignant spreading of cancer cells requires cell surface proteases that cleave the crosslinked collagenous matrix of connective tissues. from correlating the morphologically defined invasiveness of tumor cells with the presence of specific membrane-associated proteases, we have identified a malignant human melanoma cell line, lox, that invades crosslinked gelatin films in vitro and contains uniquely a neutral 170-kda gelatinase in the cell membrane. a similar gelatinase was found in membranes recovered from culture media conditioned with lox. the 170-kda gelatinase is a wheat germ agglutinin-binding protein. the proteolytic activity is maximal at neutral ph, enhanced by edta and dithiothreitol, inhibited by the cysteine protease inhibitors n-ethylmaleimide, hgcl2, and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and can bind to an organomercurial adsorbent, suggesting that it is a neutral sulfhydryl-sensitive protease. this 170-kda gelatinase of lox cells was not found in a control melanoma cell line, sk-mel28, or in 32 other tumor cell lines that did not show extracellular gelatin degradation. thus, we have identified a large membrane-bound protease that may be a specific marker molecule for melanoma cell invasiveness.
comparison of continuous subcutaneous and intravenous hydromorphone infusions for management of cancer pain. to compare the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous and intravenous infusion of opioid analgesics, a randomised, double-blind, crossover trial was carried out in inpatients. 15 patients with severe cancer pain received two 48 h infusions of hydromorphone--one subcutaneously and one intravenously in randomly allocated order. the study was made double-blind by the use of two infusion pumps throughout; during the active subcutaneous infusion the intravenous pump delivered saline and vice versa. serial measurements of pain intensity, pain relief, mood, and sedation by means of visual analogue scales showed no clinically or statistically significant difference between the two infusion routes. side-effects were slight, and the mean number of morphine injections for breakthrough pain did not differ significantly between the routes (4.8 [sd 4.5] for intravenous vs 5.3 [5.6] for subcutaneous). plasma hydromorphone concentrations measured at 24 h and 48 h of infusion showed stable steady-state pharmacokinetics; the mean bioavailability from subcutaneous infusion was 78% of that with intravenous infusion. because of the simplicity, technical advantages, and cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous opioid infusion into the chest wall or trunk, intravenous opioid infusion for the management of severe cancer pain should be abandoned.
pharmacokinetics of paracetamol after cardiac surgery. plasma concentration was measured after rectal and nasogastric administration of paracetamol 15 mg/kg to 28 febrile children aged between 9 days to 7 years who had undergone cardiac surgery. after equivalent doses, rectal administration in neonates and children on the first postoperative day was found to produce plasma concentrations below the therapeutic range with higher concentrations after nasogastric paracetamol on the second postoperative day. there was less variance in plasma paracetamol concentrations in neonates. both plasma elimination half life and area under the plasma concentration time curve were significantly increased in neonates after suppository dosing compared with older children. there was no difference in antipyretic effect between the two routes of administration, but this was much lower than that previously reported in febrile children.
prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity in pediatric emergency room patients undergoing phlebotomy. information on the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection among children and adolescents requiring medical care is sparse. a small but significant risk of seroconversion occurs in health care workers who handle blood and body fluids of patients infected with hiv. the prevalence of hiv seropositivity in children who had phlebotomy as part of emergency care was measured. of 749 blood samples, 21 (2.8%) tested positive for hiv antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and western blot analysis: 14 samples from 6 patients with hemophilia, 6 from 3 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex, and 1 from a patient with asthma. of these 21 blood samples, 10 were from 4 children previously known to be hiv positive, 4 were from patients with a known parental risk factor, and 16 were from patients with known history of blood transfusion. one sample was from a children with unknown hiv status and no documented risk factors. procedures included 9 venipunctures, 17 intravenous line placements, 1 lumbar puncture, and 1 pelvic examination. most patients with hiv seropositivity had been known to be hiv seropositive or at significant risk for hiv seropositivity. although the potential risk to health care workers from children without known risk factors for hiv seropositivity was small in this population, the currently recommended infection-control precautions should always be observed.
noninvasive determination of pulmonary artery wedge pressure: comparative analysis of pulsed doppler echocardiography and right heart catheterization. to compare left ventricular filling variables as derived by transmitral pulsed doppler echocardiography (tpde) and hemodynamic variables as assessed at right heart catheterization (rhc), 104 icu patients (64 male, 40 female) aged 26 to 73 yr (mean 54.6 +/- 10.3) without valvular heart disease were examined. simultaneously with rhc, transmitral flow velocity profiles were obtained by tpde, and the ratio of the velocity-time integrals of late diastolic active (a wave) and early diastolic passive inflow into the left ventricle (e wave) was calculated (a/e ratio). invasively determined pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (wp) ranged from 3 to 36 mm hg (median 13.35, 5%/95% 6/31 mm hg). linear regression analysis showed a highly significant correlation between the a/e ratio and wp (r = .98, p less than .001, standard error of the estimate [see] = 0.10). the a/e ratio also correlated with other hemodynamic variables such as cardiac output (r = -.68, p less than .001, see = 0.33), cardiac index (r = -.74, p less than .001, see = 0.31), and stroke volume index (r = -.68, p less than .001, see = 0.34). the interobserver agreement (derived by intraclass correlation analysis between two examiners) on the a/e ratio was high (r = .95, p less than .001, n = 26). we conclude that wp can be accurately determined noninvasively by tpde. for the assessment of systolic ventricular function, tpde is of limited diagnostic value.
the management of malignant bone tumors in children and adolescents. a series of 205 pediatric patients affected by osteosarcoma, ewing's sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone were treated from 1978 to 1988. ninety-eight percent of the patients received chemotherapy and 63% had a surgical resection. sixty-five percent of all patients were alive at 30 months and were considered disease free. the functional results after surgery were evaluated according to the musculoskeletal tumor society score. in all diaphyseal resections and resections of the upper extremity and pelvis, the results were excellent or good in 60% of the cases. in resections of the proximal femur, distal femur, or proximal tibia and reconstruction with nonexpansible prostheses, the results were excellent or good in 75%. on the other hand, when arthrodeses of the lower extremity were used, only 14% of cases had a good result. this correlates with the resulting lack of articulation and serious limb shortening seen with progression of skeletal growth.
locked-in syndrome with bilateral ventral midbrain infarcts. we report a patient who was quadriplegic and mute, but retained consciousness and communicated by eye movements and blinks. eeg and seps were normal. baeps showed slight prolongation of latencies for waves iv and v. mri showed bilateral infarcts only in the middle and lateral portions of the cerebral peduncles.
genetics of common diseases of adulthood. implications for prenatal counseling and diagnosis. genetic factors play an important role in the development of many common diseases of adulthood that result in early morbidity and mortality. prevention of these disorders and their sequelae is best established through early detection and early intervention. although it may be feasible to screen the entire population for some disorders (e.g., hypertension), this approach would be expensive and impractical for others (e.g., colon cancer). the family history provides an inexpensive and convenient method of identifying families at risk for premature diseases of adulthood. family screening for a disorder should be recommended if there is increased risk for the disorder among family members, if screening methods are available to detect the condition at an early age or preclinical stage, and if early intervention will alter the course of the disease. for many disorders screening and intervention can prevent the occurrence of clinical disease. the prenatal counseling session affords an ideal setting for identifying families at risk for diseases of adulthood with major genetic components. by reviewing the family history, key family members can be identified and investigated, in order to establish a specific genetic diagnosis. at-risk relatives can then be counseled and screened for the disorder preclinically and premorbidly. the screening and intervention available for a disease depends on the nature of the disorder, our understanding of its physiology and etiology, and our current technology. the disorders discussed earlier are typical of conditions of adulthood that are influenced strongly by genetic factors, especially when they appear in younger adults. atherosclerosis, colon cancer, and diabetes are complex phenotypes. each can be caused by single-gene defects, but commonly the genetics are more complex. empiric data help to establish the risk to an individual in the latter cases. in all three examples, early detection should lead to treatment, which can prevent more serious sequelae: by treating the dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease can be prevented; by removing the benign polyp, malignant cancer can be avoided; and when impaired glucose tolerance is detected, diet and exercise can prevent or delay frank diabetes and its complications. the complete evaluation of individuals at risk for disorders such as those in table 1 and their families can be a complicated task. referral to a center experienced in the genetics of common diseases often may be necessary.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
retrospective application of prognostic indices to pancreatitis discovered at necropsy. six prognostic indices, which were developed to assess inpatients with acute pancreatitis, were evaluated for possible retrospective application. when applied to a series of 14 cases in whom pancreatitis was first diagnosed at necropsy, the index devised by jacobs et al was found to be the most useful, because in nine of these cases eight or more of the variables required were available for assessment from the case records. in the other indices evaluated fewer than eight of the required variables were available for retrospective assessment in most cases. although undiagnosed pancreatitis is probably uncommon as a sole cause of death, the retrospective use of one or more of these indices may help assess the severity of the patient's condition on admission to hospital.
effects of benazepril and metoprolol oros alone and in combination on myocardial ischemia in patients with chronic stable angina the efficacy of benazepril, metoprolol oros and their combination was evaluated in 29 patients (42 to 74 years of age) with chronic stable angina and documented coronary artery disease in a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover trial using serial quantitated exercise testing and ambulatory electrocardiographic (ecg) monitoring. the mean (+/- sem) exercise time was 8.5 +/- 0.7 min with placebo, 8.3 +/- 0.6 min (95% confidence interval [ci]-1.06 to 0.54) with benazepril, 9.4 +/- 0.5 min (95% ci -0.32 to 2.14) with metoprolol oros and 9.6 +/- 0.5 min (95% ci -0.25 to 2.47) with the combination of benazepril and metoprolol oros. the mean exercise time to the development of 1 mm st segment depression was prolonged from 6.0 +/- 0.6 min with placebo to 6.3 +/- 0.6 min (95% ci -0.93 to 1.45) with benazepril, 7.9 +/- 0.5 min (95% ci 0.83 to 3.0) with metoprolol oros and 8.1 +/- 0.6 min (95% ci 0.88 to 3.29) with the combination of benazepril and metoprolol oros. benazepril did not alter the rest or maximal heart rate, whereas metoprolol oros alone and in combination significantly lowered the heart rate at rest and during maximal exercise. systolic blood pressure at rest was nonsignificantly reduced, whereas diastolic blood pressure was lowered significantly by all treatments in comparison with placebo. at maximal exercise, only metoprolol oros, whether given alone or in combination with benazepril, was able to blunt significantly systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product.
effects of hypovolemia and transfusion on tumor growth in mca-tumor-bearing rats. pretransplant blood transfusion has been shown to significantly affect the outcome of renal transplantation. evidence regarding the association of blood transfusions with growth or recurrence of solid tumors is still conflicting both in clinical and in experimental studies, although diminished survival has been suggested in several studies. to determine the influence of blood transfusions and hypovolemia, as separate or combined factors, on tumor growth, we evaluated the weight of a subcutaneously implanted sarcoma (methylcholanthrene-induced) in 35 rats. after reaching 1% tumor burden (day 0), the animals were separated into two groups: hypovolemia (shed volume, 15 ml/kg) or normovolemia. these groups were further divided according to resuscitation: oo (no resuscitation), bl (receiving syngeneic blood stored in citrate phosphate dextrose for 4 days, 15 ml/kg), sl (receiving 0.9% sodium chloride, 45 ml/kg). tumor dimensions were determined daily by external measurement, and tumor weight was calculated. hypovolemia exerted a significant influence on tumor growth, independent of the resuscitation modality. the rats that received blood transfusions showed an increased rate of tumor growth, compared to the animals that received saline solution or no treatment. no interaction was noted between the effects produced by hypovolemia and blood transfusion. we conclude that the hypovolemic event enhanced tumor growth independently of the resuscitation, and transfusion of citrate phosphate dextrose-blood stored for 4 days did influence tumor growth in this model. we suggest that the effect of blood transfusion in patients with cancer has to be redefined to account for the influence of possible hypovolemic events.
proximal esophageal ph-metry in patients with 'reflux laryngitis'. fiberoptic laryngoscopic examinations were performed on 40 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, 25 of whom had persistent laryngeal symptoms (dysphonia, cough, globus sensation, frequent throat clearing, or sore throat) and 15 without laryngeal symptoms who served as disease controls. ten patients with laryngeal symptoms but none of the controls had laryngoscopic findings consistent with reflux laryngitis. dual-site ambulatory ph recordings were obtained with the ph electrodes spaced 15 cm apart and with the proximal sensor positioned just distal to the upper esophageal sphincter. patients in the three groups (disease controls: group 1; patients with symptoms but without laryngoscopic findings: group 2; and patients with both laryngeal symptoms and findings: group 3) were comparable in terms of age, smoking habit, the presence of esophagitis, and distal esophageal acid exposure. proximal esophageal acid exposure was, however, significantly increased in groups 2 and 3, and nocturnal proximal esophageal acidification occurred in over half of these patients but in none of the group 1 patients. we conclude that the subset of reflux patients who experience laryngeal symptoms show significantly more proximal esophageal acid exposure (especially nocturnally) and often have laryngoscopic findings of posterior laryngitis not observed in control reflux patients.
cloning of the cdna for human 12-lipoxygenase. a full-length cdna clone encoding 12-lipoxygenase (arachidonate:oxygen 12-oxidoreductase, ec 1.13.11.31) was isolated from a human platelet cdna library by using a cdna for human reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase as probe for the initial screening. the cdna had an open reading frame encoding 662 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular weight of 75,590. three independent clones revealed minor heterogeneities in their dna sequences. thus, in three positions of the deduced amino acid sequence, there is a choice between two different amino acids. the deduced sequence from the clone plt3 showed 65% identity with human reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase and 42% identity with human leukocyte 5-lipoxygenase. the 12-lipoxygenase cdna recognized a 3.0-kilobase mrna species in platelets and human erythroleukemia cells (hel cells). phorbol 12-tetradecanoyl 13-acetate induced megakaryocytic differentiation of hel cells and 12-lipoxygenase activity and increased mrna for 12-lipoxygenase. the identity of the cloned 12-lipoxygenase was assured by expression in a mammalian cell line (cos cells). human platelet 12-lipoxygenase has been difficult to purify to homogeneity. the cloning of this cdna will increase the possibilities to elucidate the structure and function of this enzyme.
the role of etoposide in the treatment of poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site. patients with poorly differentiated carcinoma (pdc) or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (pda) of unknown primary site comprise 25% to 35% of the patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site. some of these patients have neoplasms that are highly responsive to combination chemotherapy, and a minority have potentially curable tumors. between 1978 and 1982, 68 patients were treated with combination chemotherapy (most received cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin [pvb] with or without doxorubicin). thirty-eight patients (56%) responded to treatment, with 15 (22%) complete responder (cr) and 9 (13%) long-term, disease-free survivors. since that time, we have incorporated etoposide into the treatment of these patients because of its synergism with cisplatin and its great activity against several other neoplasms, including germ cell tumors. seventeen patients with pdc of unknown primary site received salvage therapy with etoposide and cisplatin after failing pvb. ten of these patients had partial responses (pr), with a median response duration of 5 months (range, 2 to 12 months). thirty-two previously untreated patients with pdc received etoposide and cisplatin combinations as initial treatment. eighteen of 30 evaluable patients (60%) responded to therapy, and 11 patients (37%) had cr. seven patients remain disease-free 39 to 63 months after the completion of therapy. etoposide is an active drug in the treatment of pdc of unknown primary site. preliminary results indicate that initial treatment with etoposide and cisplatin combinations produces results equivalent to or superior to those achieved with pvb.
the ileosigmoid knot. the ileosigmoid knot (isk) is a rare cause of intestinal obstruction. unfamiliarity with the condition could have disastrous consequence at surgery. over the past 20 years, we have encountered seven cases. analyzing the data gathered from these, and on reviewing the literature, we found it possible to arrive at a preoperative diagnosis in two patients. four patients were women, two of whom developed the obstruction in the postpartum period. one of the males was found to have an inflamed meckel's diverticulum included in the knotting. the symptoms and the clinical findings were nonspecific. the characteristic x-ray findings of a double closed loop obstruction, was seen in only three patients. resection of gangrenous bowel with anastomoses was feasible in four. unlike in other series, primary anastomosis of the large gut was undertaken. there were two deaths early in the series. guidelines to the management have been suggested.
cyst of the choroid plexus in the lateral ventricle: case report and review of the literature. we report an intraventricular cyst in a 2-year-old boy who had myoclonic jerks of the extremities. the cyst had no communication with the ventricular system or subarachnoid space. total removal of the cyst adhering to the choroid plexus was accomplished. the glial cyst wall was lined in part by flattened or cuboidal epithelium. the preoperative and postoperative computed tomographic scans and magnetic resonance images are presented, and congenital benign cysts in the lateral ventricle are reviewed and discussed.
distribution of angiographic vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: implications for diagnosis by transcranial doppler ultrasonography. a study was undertaken to determine how frequently angiographic vasospasm occurs outside the normal access range of transcranial doppler ultrasound in patients who have suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage. vasospasm located in the basal vessels is readily identifiable using transcranial doppler ultrasound whereas spasm affecting the more distal, vertically oriented arteries is outside the standard detection range. it is therefore speculated that the sensitivity of the technique would be adversely affected by a high incidence of distal vasospasm. a total of 136 angiograms performed on 68 patients after a subarachnoid hemorrhage from anterior circulation aneurysms were reviewed to determine the typical distribution of vasospasm. of the 40 cases that showed greater than or equal to 25% vessel narrowing, 50.0% had spasm restricted to the basal vessels, 42.5% had spasm involving both basal and distal segments, and 7.5% had spasm of the distal segments only. none of the patients with distal vasospasm alone developed delayed ischemic deficits. it is concluded that most patients with anterior circulation aneurysms who develop vasospasm will have involvement of the basal vessels, but a small number of patients may develop vasospasm only in distal vessels.
persistence and remission of depressive symptoms in late life. objective: the relation of poor health to the onset of depression symptoms in late life is well recognized, but little attention has been given to characteristics that might predict persistence or remission of depressive symptoms. in previous analyses the authors found that increasing disability and declining health preceded the emergence of depressive symptoms in older community residents and accounted for 70% of the variance explained by discriminant analyses. the aim of the present analysis was to examine the relevance of changes in health and disability to the persistence of depressive symptoms. method: a representative sample of 1,855 adults aged 65 or older were assessed with the center for epidemiologic studies depression scale at baseline. twenty-four months later, 1,577 individuals were available for a second assessment of depressive symptoms. the characteristics of the 97 community residents whose depressive symptoms persisted over 24 months were compared to those of the 114 whose symptoms remitted. results: changes in health, differences in age, sleep disturbance, and added formal support services accounted for more than 30% of the variance between the persistently depressed and remission groups. advanced age and worsening health were associated with persistent symptoms, improved health with remission. conclusions: previous studies have indicated that untoward changes in health and disability play a major role in the onset of depressive symptoms. these findings show a substantial contribution to chronicity as well.
peritoneal closure or non-closure at cesarean. the value of peritoneal closure at the time of cesarean birth was evaluated prospectively. two hundred forty-eight women undergoing low transverse cesarean through a pfannenstiel skin incision were assigned to one of two groups: peritoneum open (n = 127) or peritoneum closed (n = 121). the mean (+/- sem) surgical time in the open group (48.1 +/- 1.2 minutes) was significantly less than for the closed group (53.2 +/- 1.4 minutes) (p less than .005). there were no postoperative differences between the groups in the incidence of wound infection, dehiscence, endometritis, ileus, and length of hospital stay. our study suggests that leaving the parietal peritoneum unsutured is an acceptable way to manage patients at cesarean delivery.
mental stress as an acute trigger of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and blood pressure elevation in coronary artery disease. acute mental stress may be a frequent trigger of transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death. in an experimental setting, the effect of mental stress on hemodynamics and left ventricular wall motion abnormalities (as detected by radionuclide ventriculography) was measured in 29 patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. seventy-five percent of the patients demonstrated mental stress-induced wall motion abnormalities. patients frequently exhibited greater increases in peak systolic arterial pressure during mental stress than during exercise. personally relevant mental stress is the most potent type of mental stress, both in terms of frequency and magnitude of ischemia. most mental stress-induced ischemic episodes are clinically and electrocardiographically silent and occur at heart rates significantly lower than those seen during exercise. both systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased during mental stress-induced ischemia, suggesting that increased myocardial oxygen demand plays a role in the pathophysiology of mental stress-induced transient ischemia. the significant magnitude and acute onset of this mental stress-induced blood pressure elevation may in some manner contribute to atherosclerotic plaque rupture. these findings may provide a pathophysiologic link to the epidemiologic association between mental stress and acute ischemic coronary events. a new ambulatory radionuclide detector that can concurrently monitor left ventricular ejection fraction and electrocardiographic st-segment change may enhance the detection and evaluation of transient myocardial ischemia in ambulatory coronary patients.
circulating antibodies against human colonic extract enriched with a 40 kda protein in patients with ulcerative colitis. we have previously described a 40 kda colonic protein(s) which is specifically recognised by tissue-bound immunoglobulin g obtained from the colon of patients with ulcerative colitis. we now report the presence of circulating antibodies against this antigen using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with a highly enriched preparation of the 40 kda protein from normal colon extracts. serum was collected from 79 patients with ulcerative colitis, 36 with crohn's disease, 16 with specific diarrhoeal syndromes, and from 19 normal subjects. twenty nine of 79 patients with ulcerative colitis, 21 of 36 with crohn's disease, and all patients with diarrhoea were symptomatic during the collection of sera. the difference in optical density values between patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis and each of the other groups, including patients with ulcerative colitis in remission, was highly significant (p less than 0.01). seventy nine per cent of patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis had optical density values above the means for all other groups. fifty five per cent of sera from patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis had optical densities beyond two sds of the values for all other groups and only two of 71 sera from non-ulcerative colitis patients (one crohn's disease and one normal subject) had values in this range. these results show the presence of anti-colon antibodies against the 40 kda protein(s) in the sera of many patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis.
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. twenty hogs were administered the following procedures before, during, and after overdistraction of the spinal column at t5-t6: somatosensory (sep) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps), hydrogen clearance procedures, stagnara wake-up tests, and aortic-injection of silastic plastic. to ensure that overdistraction was possible, a nonosseous, circumferential osteotomy was made at t5-t6 and distraction applied in one-ratchet increments using harrington instrumentation. overdistraction was maintained for 3, 5, 6, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 minutes. results indicated that the duration of overdistraction, as represented by lost nmeps, was always correlated with the animal's clinical status on wake-up test. if overdistraction was maintained more than 6 minutes, 100% of the animals demonstrated positive wake-up results; if maintained between 5 and 6 minutes, 75% demonstrated positive wake-up results; and if maintained less than 5 minutes, only 25% demonstrated positive wake-up results. time-to-loss of the nmeps and seps, after onset of overdistraction, fell within two groups: slow and fast. in the slow group, it required slightly more than 20 minutes (mean = 20.6) for the potentials to be lost, while in the fast-loss group data were lost in slightly less than 4 minutes (mean = 3.6). blood flow studies and inspection of the spinal cord revealed that the mechanism of action for the slow group appeared to be ischemia of the spinal cord that extended several centimeters above and below the site of maximum distraction. in the fast-loss group, it appeared that gross structural damage, with some very localized ischemia, were the mechanisms of actions influencing the integrity of the spinal cord.
follow-up of patients who underwent arterial switch repair for transposition of the great arteries thirty infants underwent arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries within the first week of life (mean age, 2.8 days). an additional three patients underwent repair at 5 1/2, 8, and 9 1/2 months of age. six (18.2%) of 33 patients died. all the survivors were not receiving cardiac medications or diuretics at the time of the last follow-up visit. examination of 24 of 27 survivors at 1 to 5 years of age revealed normal growth in 75% of the patients. two patients had height, weight, and head circumference below the fifth percentile for age. four patients had height and weight appropriate for age but head circumference below the fifth percentile. neurodevelopmental testing yielded normal findings in 18 patients. three patients were considered suspect and an additional three were abnormal neurodevelopmentally. head circumference less than the fifth percentile, abnormalities on computed tomographic scans of the brain, and emergency balloon atrial septostomy or emergency switch operation were more likely to occur in patients who had low neurodevelopmental scores. we conclude that the majority of patients who undergo arterial switch repair demonstrate normal growth and development and no impairment of cardiovascular function. however, significant morbidity in the form of neurodevelopmental problems may occur.
central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox--cause or coincidence? a 7.5 year old boy, known to have a seizure disorder, presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory, 10 weeks after severe chickenpox. immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32. cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis. he presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures. magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct, but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process. cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32. although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence, a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis, similar to that reported with herpes zoster, and with potentially significant clinical implications, should be considered. as a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy, however, which is generally not indicated in such cases, only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity.
tenascin expression in hyperproliferative skin diseases. the expression of tenascin, a recently discovered extracellular matrix glycoprotein, was studied by immunohistochemistry in normal human skin and in a number of skin diseases with epidermal hyperproliferation such as psoriasis, basal cell carcinoma, bowen's disease and solar keratosis. tenascin expression in the upper dermis of normal skin was found to vary from almost absent to patchy along the basal membrane. staining was continuous and intense around blood vessels, hair follicles and eccrine sweat ducts. in basal cell carcinoma a marked expression of tenascin was found in the tumour stroma, especially adjacent to the basal membrane surrounding the tumour cell nests. in bowen's disease and solar keratosis, tenascin expression was found in the dermis next to the keratinocytes. in psoriasis the dermal papillae of clinically involved skin were intensely stained and a continuous band of tenascin was present in the upper dermis along the basal membrane. the distribution of tenascin differed from other known extracellular matrix components.
hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction. although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition, hypotension, administered medications, sepsis, or other conditions, the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection, directly related to aids. infection with mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection. in contrast, hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise. cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis. cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis. about 10-20% of patients with aids have chronic hepatitis b infection. these patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis. the clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection. hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms. hepatic involvement by kaposi's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure. patients with non-hodgkin's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, and systemic symptoms. as a pragmatic approach, patients with liver dysfunction and hiv-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver. patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction. patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy. patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy. when performed for these indications, liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50% of patients with aids and in about 25% of patients who are hiv seropositive but who are not known to have aids. the clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections.
brain markers and suicide: can a relationship be found? recent work suggests that some persons who commit suicide have altered neurochemistry in their brains. it remains unclear which of the many reported abnormalities are most reliably present and whether they reflect a specific psychiatric disorder or a disposition to violent impulsivity. a number of technical and interpretive problems must be clarified, but a postmortem test indicating that a subject was at high risk for suicide may eventually emerge. this approach would not be useful for ruling out suicide, since altered neurochemistry is not likely to be involved in every case.
myeloproliferative disorders. classification and diagnostic features with special emphasis on chronic myelogenous leukemia and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. leukocytosis, mild anemia, thrombocytosis, and panhyperplasia in the marrow characterize the early stages of most of the cmpd, whereas extramedullary hematopoiesis (such as in the spleen or liver), peripheral cytopenias (anemia, leukopenia, or thrombocytopenia), and myelofibrosis, with or without osteosclerosis, reflect the changes seen in the later stages. transitions among the different cmpd and termination in acute leukemia or marrow failure also are common. cml often is characterized by leukocytosis and the presence of the entire spectrum of granulocytes (mature and immature) in the blood and marrow, reduced lap, hypercellularity with prominent granulocytic hyperplasia in the marrow, ph chromosome, and bcr-abl gene rearrangement. typical features of amm include leukoerythroblastosis, teardrop poikilocytosis, anemia, increased or normal lap, prominent megakaryocytic hyperplasia in the marrow, dyshematopoiesis, and hyperplastic or fibrotic/sclerotic marrow.
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the submandibular gland. a rare tumor not easily classifiable among published histologic categories for salivary gland tumors is reported. the neoplasm developed within the submandibular gland of a 78-year-old woman with invasion of the mandible and metastasis to regional lymph nodes. histopathologically, cuboidal cells possessing clear cytoplasm and displaced round nuclei proliferated and exhibited an adenomatous pattern. many cystic spaces surrounded by tumor cell strands were seen, mucus substance filled in the cystic spaces, and the tumor cells seemed mucus-secreting, but neither epidermoid cells nor papillary appearance could be observed. electromicroscopically, numerous mucous droplets of low electron density were prominent in the cytoplasm, and the tumor cells had sparse irregular microvilli on the luminal surface. mucin histochemistry, including paradoxical concanavalin a staining, revealed that the tumor cells contained neutral and acid mucins, and these were identified as class ii and iii mucosubstances. no other neoplastic lesion, except recurrent metastatic neck nodes, has been detected 6 years after the first examination, and it seems that the tumor is a rare primary mucinous adenocarcinoma of the submandibular gland.
recurrent laryngeal nerve avulsion for treatment of spastic dysphonia. treatment of spastic dysphonia by recurrent laryngeal nerve section has resulted in reproducibly good results in the early postoperative period in most patients. however, critical long-term follow-up has shown a high recurrence rate of adductor spasms by the third year after initial nerve section. a patient who developed recurring adductor spasms 1 year after nerve section was reexplored, with identification of neural regrowth into the distal segment of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. the technique of neural avulsion removing the distal nerve up to its insertion into the laryngeal muscles is described. neural regrowth, which is just one of the possible mechanisms for recurrence of spastic dysphonia, should be prevented by this surgical modification. twelve patients who have undergone neural avulsion primarily for spastic dysphonia are being followed up without recurrence of symptoms thus far. although these results appear promising, this short follow-up that averages 1.5 years must be extended to firmly support these concepts.
angiotensin i-forming angiotensinogenases in extrarenal vasculature and in the kidney. the intention of this study was to characterize angiotensin i-forming angiotensinogenases (aifas) in rat extrarenal arterial walls and to clarify whether these enzymes are also present in the kidney. a further aim was to identify aifas in human vasculature and to establish whether they are affected in essential hypertension. sprague-dawley rats and vascular sections of patients undergoing corrective surgery were studied. enzyme kinetic assays were performed using angiotensin i radioimmunoassay and purified natural angiotensinogens. fast protein liquid chromatography was employed for biochemical characterization. a series of aifas with various isoelectric points, molecular weights and ph optima was detected in rat extrarenal vascular and, with differing distributions of enzyme activities, in renal tissues. in extrarenal arteries the main form of renal renin was present with a relatively low activity only. aifas were also demonstrable in human extrarenal vasculature and behaved like plasma renin in essential hypertension. the results indicate the existence of an intrinsic human vascular ras in extrarenal (and renal) arteries. extrarenal arterial aifas are not generally stimulated in essential hypertensives, as previously postulated.
silent cerebrovascular disease in the elderly. correlation with ambulatory pressure. does the average daily blood pressure correlate with hypertensive cerebrovascular disease better than the casual pressure, as has been reported in other target organ involvement? we investigated the associations of two abnormal findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of a vascular etiology, low intense foci (lacunae), and periventricular hyperintense lesions on t1- and t2-weighted images, with both office and average daily blood pressure values in a population of 73 healthy normotensive and hypertensive elderly individuals (70 +/- 6 years old). lacunae were detected in 34 subjects (47%); the number per subject ranged from 0 to 19 and was significantly correlated with advancing age. furthermore, these changes were supposedly related to the average of noninvasive ambulatory (24-hour and during awake and asleep periods) pressure recordings but not to office pressures. the grade of periventricular hyperintensity was also significantly associated with advancing age and the average of ambulatory systolic pressure recordings, particularly during sleep, but not with office blood pressure. in comparisons of normotensive, "office hypertensive," and hypertensive subgroups, abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging were appropriate to the level of the 24-hour blood pressure measurements but not to that of clinic pressure. in hypertensive patients, the presence of electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy was also associated with greater abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging. we conclude that ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is superior to casual pressure measurements in predicting latent cerebrovascular disease, which is unexpectedly common in apparently healthy elderly subjects.
effects of acute hypermagnesemia on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures in the rat. the effects of acute changes in plasma magnesium concentration on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures were evaluated in mechanically ventilated rats receiving 70% nitrous oxide and 30% oxygen. in experiment 1, male rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (group i) or 5.0% magnesium sulfate to elevate plasma magnesium levels to 5.8 +/- 0.1 (group ii) or 10.5 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (group iii). in experiment 2, pregnant rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (normomagnesemia) or magnesium sulfate, resulting in a plasma magnesium concentration of 7.8 +/- 1.4 mg/dl. thirty minutes later, a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine (2.3 mg/kg per minute) was begun in both experiments. biparietal electroencephalographic activity was monitored continuously. at the onset of electroencephalographic seizure activity, arterial plasma magnesium and lidocaine concentrations were measured. in groups i and iii (experiment 1), brain parenchymal magnesium was also assayed. there were no differences in plasma lidocaine concentrations (in experiments 1 or 2) between saline solution and hypermagnesemic groups at onset of seizures. brain magnesium level was unaltered by magnesium sulfate infusion. we conclude that acute administration of magnesium sulfate alters neither brain magnesium level nor the plasma lidocaine concentration associated with onset of electroencephalographic seizures.
differences in health status between older and younger homeless adults. the institute of medicine has placed a priority on determining the special health-care needs of elderly homeless persons. as part of a community-based study of 521 homeless adults in two beach communities of los angeles, we compared the demographic characteristics and health of older (age rangek 50-78, n = 61) and younger (age range, 18-49, n = 460) homeless individuals. compared with younger adults, older adults were more likely to be white (85% versus 61%), veterans (59% versus 27%), retired (36% versus 3%), and living in a vehicle (21% versus 8%). older adults were more likely to report having a chronic disease (69% versus 49%), functional disabilities, no informal social contacts during the previous month (49% versus 27%), observed high blood pressure (42% versus 22%), elevated creatinine (11% versus 2%), and elevated cholesterol (57% versus 36%). older adults were less likely to have a toothache (3% versus 30%), report psychotic symptoms (25% versus 42%), and to be illegal drug users (15% versus 55%). although they are chronologically younger, the constellation of health and functional problems of older homeless adults resemble those of geriatric persons in the general population. we suggest that geriatricians could play a significant role in training other primary-care providers to evaluate and treat socially isolated older homeless adults in a more comprehensive way than is currently standard in practice (e.g., interdisciplinary team care and emphasis on functional status, rehabilitative medicine, and assessment for sensory impairment).
autoimmune enteropathy and colitis: is there a generalised autoimmune gut disorder? children with protracted diarrhoea, circulating enterocyte autoantibodies, and an enteropathy showing features of inappropriate hla molecule expression on the jejunal crypt epithelium, often present with persistent blood and mucus in their stools. eight children with autoimmune enteropathy were investigated for the presence of associated colonic disease. six children with protracted diarrhoea, no circulating autoantibodies, and an enteropathy (in five of them) undergoing colonoscopy were used as control subjects. in all eight patients, but not in the control subjects, there was macroscopic and microscopic evidence of an accompanying colitis of variable severity, thus indicating that a more generalised intestinal disorder was present, which might affect the whole intestine. aberrant expression of dr molecules on the colonic surface and crypt epithelium was also detected. autoimmunity may play a role in the colitis.
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. v. safety of prolonged aortic clamping with hypocalcemic glutamate/aspartate blood cardioplegia. this study tests the hypothesis that multidose, hypocalcemic aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegia provides safe and effective protection during prolonged aortic clamping of immature hearts. of 17 puppies (6 to 8 weeks of age, 3 to 5 kg) placed on vented cardiopulmonary bypass, five were subjected to 60 minutes of 37 degrees c global ischemia without cardioplegic protection and seven underwent 120 minutes of aortic clamping with 4 degrees c multidose aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegia ([ca++] = 0.2 mmol/l), preceded and followed by 37 degrees c blood cardioplegic induction and reperfusion. five puppies underwent blood cardioplegic perfusion for 10 minutes without intervening ischemia to assess the effect of the cardioplegic solution and the delivery techniques. left ventricular performance was assessed 30 minutes after bypass was discontinued (starling function curves). hearts were studied for high-energy phosphates and tissue amino acids. one hour of normothermic ischemia resulted in profound functional depression, with peak stroke work index only 43% of control (0.7 +/- 0.1 versus 1.7 +/- 0.2 gm x m/kg, p less than 0.05). there was 70% depletion of adenosine triphosphate (7.6 +/- 1 versus control 20.3 +/- 1 mumol/gm dry weight, p less than 0.05) and 75% glutamate loss (6.6 +/- 1 versus control 26.4 +/- 3 mumol/gm, p less than 0.05). in contrast, after 2 hours of aortic clamping with multidose blood cardioplegia preceded and followed by 37 degrees c blood cardioplegia, there was complete recovery of left ventricular function (peak stroke work index 1.6 +/- 0.2 gm x m/kg) and maintenance of adenosine triphosphates, glutamate, and aspartate levels at or above control levels adenosine triphosphate 18 +/- 2 mumol/gm, aspartate 21 +/- 1 versus control 2 mumol/gm, and glutamate 25.4 +/- 2 mumol/gm). puppy hearts receiving blood cardioplegic perfusion without ischemia had complete recovery of control stroke work index. we conclude that methods of myocardial protection used in adults, with amino acid-enriched, reduced-calcium blood cardioplegia, can be applied safely to the neonatal heart and allow for complete functional and metabolic recovery after prolonged aortic clamping.
multiple spinal epidural metastases; an unexpectedly frequent finding. in a prospective study, patients with known malignant disease who were suspected of having a spinal epidural metastasis, had myelography which was not confined to the clinically suspected site, but included at least the whole lumbar and thoracic spinal canal. fifty four of the 106 myelograms revealed at least one epidural metastasis. twelve of these 54 myelograms showed two separate lesions, and four myelograms showed three separate lesions. in all 16 cases with multiple lesions at least one of the lesions was asymptomatic at the time of the diagnosis. it is concluded that multiple spinal epidural metastases are of common occurrence and occur in about one third of the cases. this finding may have important clinical implications. examination of the spinal canal for epidural metastases should not be confined to the clinically suspected site, but should include as extensive an area as possible of the spinal canal, whatever technique is to be used.
strong association between diabetes and displacement of mouse anti-rat insulinoma cell monoclonal antibody by human serum in vitro. in an attempt to identify novel pancreatic beta-cell surface antigens, mouse monoclonal antibodies (moabs) were raised against rat insulinoma (rin5f) cells with standard techniques. several clones were identified whose antibodies bound specifically to rin5f cells but not to other rat, mouse, and human target cells. each of these moabs was radiolabeled, and the specificity of binding of each moab was determined by the ability of excess cold homologous moab to displace the labeled moab. six rin5f cell-specific moabs of different epitopic specificities were identified. the relevance of these beta-cell epitopes to human insulin-dependent diabetes (iddm) was demonstrated by the differential ability of human serums from control and diabetic children to displace the radiolabeled moabs from the rin5f cells. serums from 333 children without diabetes or a family history of diabetes and from 156 newly diagnosed iddm patients were tested. only one igm moab was specifically displaced by the iddm serums, i.e., 146 of 156, compared to serums from control children, i.e., 10 of 333. with immunofluorescence, the serum component responsible for the displacement of the mouse moab was identified as igg. most of the positive control serums were from children with active autoimmune thyroiditis. serums from children with other forms of glucose intolerance did not displace moab 1a2. there was no correlation between age and the degree of displacement of 1a2. thus, the displacement of 1a2 is a specific and sensitive marker of diabetes susceptibility easily applicable to mass screening.
ultrasound and ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy of supraclavicular lymph nodes in patients with esophageal carcinoma. the use of ultrasound combined with ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (ugfab) of supraclavicular lymph nodes in the pretreatment staging of 37 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is described. all patients underwent computed tomography (ct) scans of the chest and the abdomen and ultrasound of the abdomen and supraclavicular regions. supraclavicular lymph node metastases (stage iv disease according to the tumor nodes metastasis [tnm] classification) were cytologically diagnosed in seven (18.9%) of the 37 patients. in two of these patients, no other metastases were found. in the other five patients, ugfab replaced more invasive diagnostic procedures. due to their superficial location, ultrasound and ugfab of the supraclavicular lymph nodes was relatively simple to perform, and contributed to an improved staging of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
appendectomy in primary and secondary staging operations for ovarian malignancy. appendectomy was performed at primary or secondary staging operations in 100 patients with ovarian malignancies. of 80 patients who underwent appendectomy at the time of their primary surgery, 25 (31.2%) had appendiceal metastases. among 47 patients who were believed to have disease limited to the pelvis at the time of surgery--stage i (n = 34), ii (n = 7), iiia (n = 5), and those designated stage iiic solely on the basis of microscopic para-aortic nodal metastasis (n = 1)--the appendix was involved with disease in only two patients (4.3%). however, among 33 patients with advanced disease--stage iiib (n = 6), iiic except those designated iiic solely on the basis of microscopic paraaortic nodal metastasis (n = 19), and iv (n = 8)--the appendix was involved with disease in 23 patients (69.7%) (p less than .001). poorly differentiated tumors and serous histologic cell types more frequently metastasized to the appendix (64, 15, 6, and 8% for grades 3, 2, and 1 and borderline histology, respectively; p less than .001; and 48, 13, and 8% for serous, endometrioid, and mucinous; p less than .001). of 20 patients who underwent appendectomy at their secondary staging procedure, two had metastases. metastatic disease in the appendix was microscopic in nine of 27 patients. because the frequency of appendiceal metastasis is similar to that of other metastatic sites in stages i and ii ovarian cancer, it should be removed at primary staging procedures. appendectomy should also be performed in patients with advanced ovarian malignancies if it contributes to cytoreduction or at the time of secondary staging procedures.
mild head injury classification. inconsistencies across studies concerning outcome after mild head injury may reflect differences in the diagnostic criteria used for selection of patients. consequently, we compared the neurobehavioral outcome in three groups of consecutively hospitalized patients (aged 16 to 50 years) who sustained a closed head injury (chi) and had a glasgow coma scale (gcs) score in the 9 to 15 range. these groups included patients with uncomplicated chi with mild impairment of consciousness as reflected by a gcs score in the 13 to 15 range (n = 78), patients with initially mild impairment of consciousness complicated by brain lesion or depressed skull fracture (n = 77), and patients with moderate chi (n = 60). tests of memory, information processing, and verbal fluency were administered within 1 to 3 months after injury, and the glasgow outcome scale was completed at 6 months. neurobehavioral functioning was impaired in the groups with complicated mild chi and moderate chi as compared to the group with uncomplicated mild chi. although moderate chi produced longer durations of impaired consciousness and posttraumatic amnesia than complicated mild head injury, patients in these groups did not differ in neurobehavioral performance. global outcome at 6 months was better in the patients with mild chi than in patients with complicated mild and moderate injuries. analysis of the various complications of mild chi revealed that the presence of an intracranial lesion was related to more severe neurobehavioral sequelae than injuries complicated by a depressed fracture.
relation of hyperglycemia early in ischemic brain infarction to cerebral anatomy, metabolism, and clinical outcome. we studied the relation of serum glucose level measured in the first 12 hours of symptoms to the clinical findings, results of computed tomography (ct), and patterns of cerebral metabolism in 39 patients who had acute ischemic cerebral infarction. structural damage was assessed by ct. metabolic disruption was assessed using 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography (pet). median initial serum glucose concentration was 155 mg/dl (6.7 mm). clinical recovery was significantly poorer in patients with initial serum glucose levels higher than the median (p less than 0.05, chi square). pet tended to show normal results or minor abnormalities in patients with initial glucose levels less than the median, as opposed to lobar or multilobe abnormalities in patients with levels that were higher than the median (p less than 0.05, kendall's tau b). the severity of hypometabolism in the ischemic region, expressed as the percent asymmetry of local cerebral glucose metabolism between homologous brain regions, was greater in patients with initial glycemia concentrations higher than the median (p less than 0.001, t test). relationships of serum glucose level with metabolic derangement and structural damage, but not outcome, held true in patients without a history of diabetes mellitus.
anchorage-independent growth and the expression of cellular proto-oncogenes in normal human epidermal keratinocytes and in human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines. the expression of multiple cellular proto-oncogenes and the in vitro anchorage-independent growth of normal human epidermal keratinocytes and several human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines were studied and correlated. squamous cell carcinoma cell lines kb, si ha, hep-2, and fa du showed high anchorage independency, and ms 751 and a-253 cell lines had minimum independency. however, the normal keratinocytes and the a-431 cell line did not show anchorage-independent growth. both the normal human epidermal keratinocytes and cancer cell lines expressed multiple proto-oncogenes such as src, erb b-1, abl, fos, raf, h-ras, and myc, and the amount of expression of these oncogenes was notably higher in the cancer cell lines than in the normal keratinocytes. the expression of proto-oncogenes from the monolayer cultures of the cancer cell lines is poorly correlated with the anchorage independency of the cells. these data indicate that the anchorage independency is not directly linked to the expression of specific cellular proto-oncogene(s) of the monolayer cancer cell cultures.
methodology of head-up tilt testing in patients with unexplained syncope prolonged 60 degree head-up tilt has been shown to be valuable in the investigation of unexplained syncope, diagnosing neurally mediated bradycardia/hypotension or malignant vasovagal syndrome. to evaluate the methodology of tilt testing, the following were examined: reproducibility of results, tilt duration, angle of tilt, method of tilt support and effect of age in patients and control subjects. seventy-one patients with recurrent unexplained syncope underwent 60 min of 60 degree tilt; 53 (75%) had an abnormal test with vasovagal syncope at 24 +/- 10 min (mean +/- sd). tilting to 60 degrees resulted in an abnormal test in only 2 (7%) of 27 control subjects without cardiovascular symptoms (p less than 0.001); and 5 (15%) of 34 patients with syncope and documented conduction tissue disease (p less than 0.001). of 15 youthful fainters, 3 (20%) had vasovagal reactions as did 1 (8%) of 12 asymptomatic youthful control subjects. these 12 control subjects also underwent tilting with a saddle support and 7 (67%) had vasovagal reactions. it is concluded that the duration of tilting at 60 degrees should be 45 min (mean time to syncope +2 x sd in the 53 patients with abnormal results). twenty percent of patients with an abnormal tilt test may not demonstrate syncope with repeat tilting. saddle tilt testing in unexplained syncope may result in a loss of specificity. tilting at less than 60 degrees results in a loss of sensitivity. head-up tilt may be less useful in youthful subjects with vasovagal syncope than in other subjects.
an all-polyethylene cementless tibial component. a five- to nine-year follow-up study. an all-polyethylene cementless tibial component was used in 221 total knee arthroplasties. with one exception, failures did not occur before three years. failure was characterized by medial subsidence of the tibial component. there was abrasion of the polyethylene on the undersurface of all components that failed. survivorship was seven to nine years (87.1%). this study demonstrated that a flexible cementless component can function well when used with any type of bone. however, abrasion of the polyethylene that occurs from shearing forces is a concern. polyethylene components need adequate provisions to prevent shearing or need surface treatment to prevent abrasion.
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer: the results of a randomized trial. two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin (e) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone (lep) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone (hep). the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals. reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease, stable disease without symptomatic improvement, or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician. toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization (who) criteria of response and toxicity. two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis, 98% of whom have been followed for more than a year. one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep. significantly worse myelosuppression, alopecia, nausea and vomiting, and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm (p less than or equal to .001). more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm, and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease. a similar median number of courses was given in each arm. there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm (hep - complete response [cr] + partial response [pr] = 41%, lep - cr + pr = 23%). despite this, no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval. the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks, respectively.
clinical-computed tomographic correlations of lacunar infarction in the stroke data bank. lacunar stroke was diagnosed in 337 (26%) of the 1,273 patients with cerebral infarction among the 1,805 total in the stroke data bank. we analyzed the 316 patients with classic lacunar syndromes. among these, 181 (57%) had pure motor hemiparesis, 63 (20%) sensorimotor syndrome, 33 (10%) ataxic hemiparesis, 21 (7%) pure sensory syndrome, and 18 (6%) dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome. no striking differences were found among the risk factors for the lacunar subtypes, but differences were found between lacunar stroke as a group and other types of infarcts. compared to 113 patients with large-vessel atherosclerotic infarction, those with lacunar stroke had fewer previous transient ischemic attacks and strokes. compared to 246 with cardioembolic infarction, patients with lacunar stroke more frequently had hypertension and diabetes and less frequently had cardiac disease. we found a lesion in 35% of the lacunar stroke patients' computed tomograms, with most lesions located in the internal capsule and corona radiata. the mean infarct volume was greater in patients with pure motor hemiparesis or sensorimotor syndrome than in those with the other lacunar stroke subtypes. in patients with pure motor hemiparesis and infarcts in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, there was a correlation between lesion volume and hemiparesis severity except for the few whose infarct involved the lowest portion of the internal capsule; in these patients severe deficits occurred regardless of lesion volume. taken together, the computed tomographic correlations with the syndromes of hemiparesis showed only slight support for the classical view of a homunculus in the internal capsule.
tissue oxygen tension and other indicators of blood loss or organ perfusion during graded hemorrhage. currently employed clinical indicators of perfusion provide inadequate warning of developing hazards caused by marginal perfusion in certain vital organs or "peripheral" tissues that are pivotal to postsurgical wound healing. in this study, mean arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, and transcutaneous and subcutaneous oxygen tensions (ptco2 and psqo2) were investigated during serial hemorrhage, as indicators of the degree of both hypovolemia and perfusion to specific tissues. blood was removed in stages (10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 55%, 60%, and 65% of original volume) from anesthetized dogs. injections of variously radiolabeled microspheres allowed assessment of blood flow at each stage of hemorrhage in bone, brain, colon, heart, kidney, liver, muscle, pancreas, skin, small intestine, spleen, stomach, and subcutaneous tissue. psqo2 was correlated more highly with blood volume lost than was ptco2. furthermore psqo2 was more sensitive to blood loss than was either cardiac output or ptco2 and, also during the early loss (0% to 40%), was more sensitive than mean arterial pressure. some organs (e.g., pancreas) appeared to lose considerable blood flow with only small loss of blood volume, but their blood flow then stabilized at a low level despite further hemorrhage. other organs, notably the kidney, appeared to be relatively unaffected by substantial loss of blood volume (20% to 40%), after which, however, their blood flow quite abruptly became sensitive to further hypovolemia. this explains why blood flow-related performance of the kidney (e.g., urine volume) may not adequately predict a developing hazard or peripheral perfusion. some indicators were found to be better indexes of blood flow in some organs than in others (e.g., cardiac output and psqo2 correlated more closely with skin, spleen, and intestinal flows [and one another] than with vital organ flows).
estrogen receptor localization in normal and neoplastic epithelium of the uterine cervix. to investigate the estrogen receptor (er) status of cells during carcinogenesis of the uterine cervix, the immunohistochemical reactivity for a monoclonal anti-er antibody (h 222) was studied in 26 normal cervical specimens, 21 cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin), and 21 cases of invasive cervical carcinoma. in addition, the presence of human papillomavirus (hpv) dna (types 6/11, 16/18, or 31/33/35) was analyzed by in situ hybridization. in the normal cervix, basal cells of the squamous epithelium, metaplastic cells, and endocervical glandular cells were er positive. in contrast, neoplastic cells of cin (17 of 21 cases) and invasive carcinoma (19 of 21 cases) were er negative. the remaining four cases of cin and two cases of invasive carcinoma were focally er positive. the hpv dna analysis revealed that hpv dna in er-negative cases was either types 16/18 or undetectable, but all er-positive neoplasms contained hpv dna types 31/33/35. these results suggest that most neoplastic cells in cin and invasive cervical carcinoma lose their er expression and that this may be related to the hpv dna types which they possess.
preoperative radiotherapy in operable rectal cancer. the effect of preoperative radiotherapy (31.5 gy in 3.5 weeks) in operable rectal cancer was examined with respect to resectability and prognosis after two surgical procedures, abdominoperineal resection, or low anterior resection. preoperative radiation did not influence the surgeon's selection of low anterior resection, which was similar (40 percent) in each group. radiation improved five-year survival probability and decreased the incidence of local recurrence significantly after low anterior resection. in contrast, no improvement of treatment results was found in patients treated by abdominoperineal resection after radiotherapy.
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension: report of two cases. two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented. emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement, which, supplemented by radiation therapy, allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms. three possible explanations for this complication are offered: 1) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site, causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus, 2) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema, and 3) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus. subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed.
prolonged confusion following convulsions due to generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus. among patients with a prolonged confusional state after convulsive seizure, we diagnosed 8 cases as generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus. six had a history of seizures, and 2 had new onset. the convulsive seizures were generalized in 6 and focal in two. the postictal confusion lasted up to 36 hours in the most prolonged case, and a delayed response to anticonvulsant medications occurred in all cases. the clinical symptoms ranged from mild confusion to coma. psychiatric manifestations or automatisms were rare. the presumed etiology was due to diverse causes, but a withdrawal state was the most common. eeg demonstrated continuous or nearly continuous generalized ictal discharges of variable morphology. these cases call attention to the fact that some prolonged confusional states following convulsive seizures are in fact due to persistent seizure activity that can be diagnosed by eeg.
hemodynamic effects of renin inhibition by enalkiren in chronic congestive heart failure. previous efforts to block the renin-angiotensin system in patients with chronic congestive heart failure (chf) have focused on 2 distal sites in the system, the angiotensin-converting enzyme and the angiotensin ii receptor. recent work, however, has led to the development of agents that directly inhibit renin, the proximal step in the cascade. in this study, we investigated the hemodynamic effects of renin inhibition in 9 patients with chronic chf by using enalkiren, a primate-selective, dipeptide renin inhibitor, which has been previously shown to suppress plasma renin activity and to lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients. the acute intravenous administration of enalkiren (1.0 mg/kg) produced increases in cardiac index (2.0 +/- 0.3 to 2.3 +/- 0.1 liter/min/m2) and stroke volume index (26 +/- 3 to 34 +/- 4 ml/m2) and decreases in left ventricular filling pressure (31 +/- 3 to 25 +/- 3 mm hg), mean right atrial pressure (15 +/- 1 to 13 +/- 2 mm hg), heart rate (78 +/- 5 to 72 +/- 6 beats/min) and systemic vascular resistance (2,199 +/- 594 to 1,339 +/- 230 dynes.s.cm-5) (all p less than 0.01 to 0.05). these observations indicate that renin inhibition produces hemodynamic benefits in patients with chronic chf and could potentially provide a novel approach to interfering with the renin-angiotensin system in patients with this disorder.
serum lipids and lipoproteins are less powerful predictors of extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis than are cigarette smoking and hypertension the effect of serum lipids and lipoproteins on extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis (cas) was studied in patients who underwent carotid arteriography. serum lipid and lipoprotein values along with data on other potential predictors of extracranial cas were determined in 240 patients who had at least one extracranial carotid artery visualized. in a multiple logistic regression analysis, the independently significant predictors of the presence of extracranial cas were, in decreasing order of significance, duration of smoking of cigarettes, hypertension, age, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. serum cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein a-i did not show an independent effect. although low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was an independent predictor of the presence of extracranial cas, its effect as a predictor was far outweighed by the effects of the duration of smoking of cigarettes and a history of hypertension.
different forms of chronic childhood thrombocytopenic purpura defined by antiplatelet autoantibodies. to determine whether detection of antiplatelet autoantibodies (aab) to glycoproteins iib/iiia and ib/ix may be useful in defining different forms of chronic thrombocytopenic purpura (tp) in children, we analyzed for aab the platelet and plasma samples from 36 children with chronic tp (mean duration 4.4 years), from 31 children with normal platelet counts at the time of blood sampling but with chronic tp in the past (mean duration 2.9 years), and from 23 adults with chronic tp; the results were correlated with the clinical data. antiplatelet autoantibodies were detected in 26 (72.2%) of 36 children with ongoing tp, 15 (48.4%) of 31 children with tp in the past, and 12 (66.7%) of 18 adults with tp. all children with high aab ratios (greater than 5 times the control mean + 3 sd) were more than 8 years of age at diagnosis (mean age 12.4 years compared with 7.1 years in children with moderate or negative aab levels; p = 0.003). the results suggest that the outcome for adolescents with high platelet-associated aab levels may be similar to that of adults, whereas younger children may have a greater chance of spontaneous remission. the children with chronic tp in the past and elevated platelet-associated aab levels may have a "compensated" tp and therefore may be at risk for relapses. future studies aimed at serial aab determination throughout the patients' courses may further define tp subgroups.
resolution of cirrhotic glomerulonephritis following successful liver transplantation. a 38-year-old man with liver failure due to laennec's cirrhosis developed nephrotic range proteinuria and hematuria. renal biopsy showed membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis with 2+ staining for iga and complement consistent with cirrhotic glomerulonephritis. after orthotopic liver transplantation, proteinuria and hematuria rapidly resolved. this case indicates that glomerulonephritis associated with cirrhosis may be successfully treated with hepatic transplantation. whether the improvement in glomerular abnormalities resulted from immunosuppression therapy or from restoration of normal hepatic function is unknown.
complications of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in neonates. in cases of severe respiratory failure, cardiopulmonary bypass has been used as support until cardiac and pulmonary recovery occurs. we report the wilford hall usaf medical center experience with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) and its associated complications. from july 1985 to march 1989, 57 neonates were placed on membrane oxygenators. the overall survival was 79%. technical complications encountered included catheter-related problems, mechanical complications of the pump apparatus, and hemorrhage. hemorrhagic complications were the most frequent and devastating complications encountered. intracranial hemorrhage accounted for six deaths associated with bypass. extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is successful in significantly improving survival of neonates whose predicted mortality approaches 100% with conventional treatment. the rate of infant mortality using the membrane oxygenator is not affected by technical complications related to catheter position, mechanical problems with the circuit, or hemorrhage, excluding intracranial hemorrhage. the major cause of death of infants receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is the underlying disease process leading to cardiopulmonary failure.
toxicology screening of the trauma patient: a changing profile. study objectives: to determine the current ingestants found in the multiply injured trauma patient and to determine if this select group of ingestants affected the resuscitation, evaluation, or convalescent management of these patients. design: a one-year retrospective analysis was performed on all patients who were admitted to an urban trauma center with a discharge diagnosis of multiple trauma and who received a comprehensive toxicology screening test. main results: one hundred twenty-seven of the 177 patients (72%) who fulfilled the criteria had positive toxicology screens. ethyl alcohol was the only drug present in 26 of these patients (20%); 57 (45%) were positive for drugs other than ethyl alcohol. a combination of ethyl alcohol and at least one other drug was quantified in 44 patients (35%). the most often encountered substances were ethyl alcohol (55%), marijuana (24%), and cocaine (21%). twelve drug screens (9%) demonstrated pharmaceuticals (eg, acetylsalicylic acid, acetaminophen, or cyclic antidepressants) that may require specific antidotal treatment. conclusion: the ingestant profile found in this subgroup of trauma patients differed from those of previous studies. although a select group of these ingestants requires specific treatment or affects the physical assessment of the patient, none of these trauma patients received more than supportive care.
endometriosis of the abdominal wall. endometriosis of the abdominal wall typically occurs as a painful mass in a lower abdominal incision from previous cesarean section or hysterectomy. most patients are young and in their active reproductive years. the histologic diagnosis requires a combination of either endometrial-like glands, endometrial stroma, or hemosiderin pigment. the diagnosis must be considered in any woman with an abdominal wall mass and a history of transabdominal gynecologic surgery. wide excision offers the best chance to prevent recurrence.
giant left atrium--a case report. a seventy-seven-year old woman, with mitral stenosis, presented with cardiomegaly evident on her chest roentgenogram. the cardiac enlargement was due to a giant left atrium that distorted the cardiac structures. an echocardiogram and a first-pass nuclear angiogram were able to delineate the huge left atrium.
cerebral glucose utilization during sleep in landau-kleffner syndrome: a pet study. three right-handed male children (aged 5, 6, and 11 years) with signs, symptoms and/or history of the syndrome of acquired aphasia-epilepsy (landau-kleffner syndrome) were studied during drug-induced, electroencephalographically (eeg)-monitored sleep by positron-emission tomography (pet) and the [18f]fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) method. our data demonstrate that in landau-kleffner syndrome, cerebral glucose utilization is not normal during sleep. the metabolic pattern varied between the children but the metabolic disturbances always predominated over the temporal lobes. they were right-sided, left-sided, or bilateral. in the two first patients, eeg recordings showed continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep and a right-greater-than-left asymmetry was observed in temporal areas. in patient 1, the asymmetry was associated with a relative increase of glucose utilization of the right posterior temporal region. in patient 2, the glucose utilization was relatively decreased in the left anterotemporal and left perisylvian regions. in patient 3, the sleep eeg showed no discharge and no significant asymmetry was observed; however, glucose utilization of both temporal lobes was decreased. lower metabolic rates in subcortical structures than in cortex were also noted in the three children. this metabolic pattern may be related to the maturation of the central nervous system (cns).
surgical and prosthesis-related complications using the groningen button voice prosthesis. prosthesis-assisted tracheoesophageal speech has advanced speech rehabilitation appreciably. however, the surgical technique and the use of a prosthesis may give rise to complications. in a retrospective study on 132 consecutive patients rehabilitated with a groningen button voice prosthesis, the complications were assessed, the average follow-up being 21 months. surgical complications were not observed. prosthesis-related complications, which were encountered in 28%, were all of a minor nature and mainly consisted of granulation formation and hypertrophic scarring; these appeared to be easily treatable. the complications found were few and insignificant in comparison with reports in the literature. this may be attributed to the uncomplicated surgical procedure for the insertion of the groningen button. moreover, the prosthesis is self-retaining and requires hardly any care from the patient. permanent removal of the prosthesis usually requires surgical closure, which is a simple procedure performed under local anaesthesia.
markers of chronic alcohol ingestion in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: an aid to diagnosis. we report here the use of the biochemical marker desialylated transferrin to aid in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. conventional biochemical tests used for the detection of chronic alcohol consumption fail to differentiate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients from alcoholic subjects. in addition, even in those alcoholic subjects with alcoholic liver disease in whom biopsy has been performed, it is impossible to differentiate these two disease states on the basis of morphological examination alone. in this study we have examined two new markers of excessive alcohol intake, desialylated transferrin and mitochondrial ast in subjects with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in patients consuming excessive amounts of alcohol. all nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients consumed minimal or no alcohol and were diagnosed by morphological criteria based on liver biopsy specimens. alcoholic subjects were consuming in excess of 80 gm/day ethanol, often with clinical evidence of overt alcoholism. control subjects included both healthy controls and patient controls with liver diseases unrelated to alcohol. the ratio of desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was elevated only in patients who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol, whereas the ratio of mitochondrial ast to total ast (mitochondrial ast/total ast) was not significantly different between alcoholic subjects and patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. the sensitivity and specificity for the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was 81% and 98%, respectively, whereas the sensitivity for the mitochondrial ast/total ast ratio was 92%; the specificity was only 50%, indicating that there were a large number of false-positives. all the conventional markers were less sensitive and less specific than the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin.
epithelial abnormalities in intestine and kidney of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. a variety of perturbations of calcium metabolism are reported to occur in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr) compared to its genetic control the wistar-kyoto rat (wky), including significant dysfunction of calcium handling by the proximal renal tubule of the shr, resulting in impaired active calcium transport in the gut and an apparent renal calcium leak. we explored the intestinal and renal epithelia of 12- to 14-week-old shr and wky using electron microscopy. biochemical comparisons of these transport epithelia included measurements of three vitamin d dependent cellular proteins and one structural protein: alkaline phosphatase, intestinal cabp9k, renal cabp28k, and villin expression. electron microscopy demonstrated a patchy loss in microvilli in the shr, accounting for approximately 10 to 15% of the total microvillar surface. in the kidney, morphological abnormalities were observed only in the proximal renal tubule. again, there was patchy loss of microvilli from the brush border membrane. in shr duodenal alkaline phosphatase activity was significantly reduced compared to the wky (0.145 +/- 0.002 v 0.186 +/- 0.002 integrated extinction/min/micron 3 x 10(3) brush border (p less than .001). duodenal cabp9k and renal cabp28k were significantly reduced in shr compared to wky. there were no differences in villin expression. these data are consistent with the previously characterized disturbances of active calcium transport in the intestine and inappropriate renal calcium leak in the shr. while a possible link between these disturbances and hypertension remains to be determined, this study provides supportive evidence for a primary disturbance in cell calcium handling and transporting epithelia in this form of genetic hypertension.
a frameshift mutation leading to type 1 antithrombin deficiency and thrombosis. type 1 antithrombin iii (atiii) deficiency, which is the commonest form of inherited atiii defect, is characterized by a quantitative reduction in both immunologically and functionally detectable protein. this condition is associated with a high incidence of thromboembolic disorder. previous investigations have shown that the atiii genes in the majority of cases are grossly intact, but the precise underlying molecular defects remain unknown. we have investigated the molecular basis of a type 1 atiii deficiency in an italian kindred by enzymatic amplification of the atiii gene sequences in affected family members and direct sequencing of the amplified genomic dna. a novel mutation, the deletion of a single t in the second position of codon 119, was identified in each of the affected individuals. the resulting frameshift leads to a premature termination in codon 126, effectively resulting in a null allele.
antibiotic therapy for common infections. several important points regarding the treatment of urinary tract infections should be made. single-dose and short-course antibiotic therapy is appropriate only for women with acute bacterial cystitis due to e. coli. studies comparing single-dose to full-course therapy have not been sufficiently designed to draw valid statistical conclusions, and only tmp/smx is recommended at this time. recurrent uti in women is almost always due to reinfection, which is best managed by prophylactic antibiotics. acute bronchitis and acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis are often due to viral infections, and therefore antibiotic therapy is not always needed. in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, the clearest success rates for antibiotic therapy have been in patients, who have all three of the following symptoms: increased dyspnea, increased sputum production, and sputum purulence. mupirocin is an important addition to the agents used to treat bacterial skin infections due to streptococcal and staphylococcal strains. in impetigo, mupirocin has been demonstrated to be as effective or superior to oral erythromycin. in prostatitis, data on the fluoroquinolones appears impressive, but further comparative trials are needed. they may become first-line, empiric therapy. the newer oral antibiotics are not recommended as initial, empiric therapy in the outpatient management of common infections, with the possible exception of the treatment of prostatitis. these newer agents may be more important in the treatment of recurrent or resistant infections.
nd:yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas. forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor. the 1.32 microns nd:yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments. tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd:yag-laser. this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half. the nd:yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20% to zero. the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76% of the patients. the use of the 1.32 microns nd:yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma.
the reproducibility of intravascular ultrasound imaging in vitro. to determine which factors may affect the image quality when an intravascular ultrasound catheter is used in vivo, the influence of blood, temperature change, and contrast media were evaluated. in addition, to confirm the reproducibility of intravascular ultrasound imaging to measure cross-sectional lumen area, intraobserver and interobserver variability were determined. the findings indicated that ultrasound images in blood are mildly attenuated, that changes from room temperature to body temperature do not have a significant impact on the image quality, that contrast media attenuates the image intensity in a dose-dependent manner, and that the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter provides a reproducible method for measuring arterial lumen area with excellent intraobserver and interobserver correlation.
early magnetic resonance imaging in acute traumatic internuclear ophthalmoplegia. adduction deficiency following acute head trauma may result not only from orbital damage but also from internuclear ophthalmoplegia, and in most instances this resolves over weeks to months. to date, noninvasive imaging studies during the acute phase following injury have not been definitive in localizing the pathology. three cases of adduction deficiency following head trauma that were caused by internuclear ophthalmoplegia are reported. a lesion in the brain stem was found in all three cases by magnetic resonance imaging in the subacute post-traumatic period. these lesions were not visible on routine x-ray computed tomography obtained at the time of injury.
evidence for the functional binding in vivo of tumor rejection antigens to antigen-presenting cells in tumor-bearing hosts. spleen cells of balb/c mice bearing a syngeneic csa1m fibrosarcoma were treated with anti-thy-1.2 antibody plus c, yielding a t cell-depleted, apc-containing fraction. the apc-containing fraction was first tested for its capacity to present exogenous modified-self or another tumor (meth a) ag after in vitro pulsing. the results showed comparable ag-presenting capacities to those obtained by apc-containing fraction from normal spleen cells, indicating that apc function is not affected in tumor-bearing mice. we next examined whether apc from csa1m-bearing mice bind endogenously generated csa1m tumor ag onto its surfaces to stimulate tumor-specific t cells. five rounds of inoculation of apc-containing fraction from csa1m-bearing mice without further in vitro pulsing resulted in the induction of potent anti-csa1m immune resistance. the involvement of anti-csa1m t cells in the induction of anti-csa1m immunity was excluded by the fact that the in vivo immunity was excluded by the fact that the in vivo immunity was delivered by thy-1+ cell-depleted, but not by thy-1+ cell-enriched fractions of spleen cells from csa1m-bearing mice. moreover, the failure of sephadex g10-passed spleen cells to deliver anti-csa1m resistance demonstrated the absolute requirement of apc for inducing the in vivo immunity. finally, this in vivo resistance was found to be tumor specific, because apc fractions from csa1m-bearing and meth a-bearing balb/c mice induced immune resistance selective against the corresponding tumor cell challenge. these results indicate that apc from tumor-bearing hosts can not only exert unaffected apc function against exogenous ag, but also function to present tumor ag generated endogenously in the tumor-bearing state and to produce tumor-specific immunity in vivo.
cerebrospinal fluid immune complexes in patients exposed to borrelia burgdorferi: detection of borrelia-specific and -nonspecific complexes. we analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (csf) from 32 patients with neurological symptoms and evidence of borrelia burgdorferi infection (29 were seropositive as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, 2 were cell-mediated immune positive, and 1 had been seropositive as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 9 months previously). csf immune complexes were found in 22 (69%) of 32 patients; in 18, there was sufficient sample to isolate immune complexes. by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, isolated immune complexes from 10 of these 18 patients contained antibody specific for b. burgdorferi antigens. the isotypes were igg (n = 8), igm (n = 3), and iga (n = 2). by immunoblot, these antibodies were directed against b. burgdorferi 41-kda antigen and occasionally against the 33- and 17-kda antigens. anti-b. burgdorferi igm was present in patients with acute neurological symptoms, was predominantly complexed rather than free, and decreased with clinical recovery in the one serial study. three patients were nonreactive for free csf antibodies, but had complexed antibodies to the organism. the preliminary finding of specific b. burgdorferi components in immune complexes in csf suggests an active process triggered by the organism, even in the absence of other csf abnormalities.
guidelines for transfusion support in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. transfusion practices committee of the american association of blood banks. we have reviewed the impact of evolving issues in coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) on transfusion support for these patients. issues include increased awareness of transfusion risks, reappraisal of traditional indicators triggering transfusion, and evolving alternatives to homologous blood transfusion such as autologous blood and pharmacologic therapy. these issues have been prompted by programs, such as the national institutes of health consensus conferences, to provide physicians with guidelines for appropriate use of blood components. however, evidence suggests that transfusion practice in coronary artery bypass grafting procedures remains variable and does not take into account the results of recently published clinical studies. we have therefore developed guidelines and recommendations for transfusion support in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. in summary, they are the following. 1. institutions with coronary artery bypass grafting programs should establish a multidisciplinary approach to use a combination of interventions designed to minimize homologous blood exposure. 2. prophylactic transfusion of plasma and platelets are of no benefit and therefore carry an unnecessary risk to the patient. 3. special request products such as designated blood donation from first-degree relatives should not be used because of the risk of transfusion-associated graft versus host disease. 4. for support of intravascular volume, crystalloids or colloids should be used because they do not have the potential to transmit infection.
transurethral resection versus needle biopsy prior to radical prostatectomy for stage c prostate cancer. influence on progression and survival. previous reports have claimed that transurethral resection of the prostate (turp) preceding definitive radiation therapy for patients with stage c prostate cancer promotes the risk of distant metastasis and increases the mortality rate. a total of 490 patients with pathologic stage c adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated by radical prostatectomy were studied. median time to follow-up was 4.6 years. comparison was made between patients who had turp within the six months preceding prostatectomy (n = 54) and those who had needle biopsy (n = 437) prior to operation. no significant differences were noted in local recurrence of disease, systemic progression of disease, disease-free interval, and overall and cause-specific survival, even after adjustment for clinical (adjuvant treatment) and pathologic prognostic variables. our data suggest that for patients with pathologic stage c prostate cancer treated by radical surgery, preoperative turp is not associated with unfavorable outcome.
gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy. possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying. transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (ppw). we placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing ppw. myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies. the patient developed early postoperative gastric atony, associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias. these dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess. the gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying. gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period.
penetrating aortic ulcers: diagnosis with mr imaging. the authors studied seven patients with penetrating aortic ulcers with use of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging. all patients were evaluated for acute chest symptoms, and the presence of aortic ulcers was confirmed by means of angiography in all seven patients. five patients also underwent computed tomography (ct). three patients underwent surgical repair of the thoracic aorta. mr findings included intramural hematoma and focal aortic wall ulceration in four patients, focal ulceration in one, focal intramural hematoma in one, and focal intramural hematoma with rupture in one. the diagnosis of intramural hematoma was made by the detection of increased signal intensity on t1- and t2-weighted mr images. mr imaging was superior to angiography in depicting the extent of intramural thrombus, although one ulceration diagnosed at angiography was missed at mr imaging. mr imaging was superior to ct in differentiating acute intramural hematoma from atherosclerotic plaque and chronic intraluminal thrombus, although it did not depict displaced intimal calcification in one patient with extensive intramural hematoma.
effect of local inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in the dorsomedial hypothalamus on extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and on stress-induced tachycardia: a study using microdialysis. previous studies involving local microinjection of drugs that interfere with gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba)a receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition have led to the suggestion that endogenous gaba suppresses the activity of a sympatho-excitatory mechanism in the dorsomedial hypothalamus in rats. in this study, microdialysis was used to assess and to alter pharmacologically extracellular-levels of gaba within this region while simultaneously monitoring heart rate and blood pressure. in anesthetized rats, local microdialysis for 15 min with 2.5, 10 and 40 mm nipecotic acid, an inhibitor of gaba uptake, caused concentration-related increases in gaba and taurine in the extracellular space, but no significant change in heart rate or arterial pressure. similar perfusion with 37.5, 75 and 150 mm kcl caused concentration-related increases in gaba as well as aspartate, glutamate, taurine, glycine and alanine. only modest, variable increases in heart rate and no effect on arterial pressure were observed during the perfusions with high potassium. in conscious rats, unilateral microdialysis of the dorsomedial hypothalamus with 0.5 mm nipecotic acid for 2 to 2.5 hr before stress coupled with contralateral microinjection of muscimol (88 pmol/250 nl) 5 min before stress significantly reduced air stress-induced tachycardia; this reduction in tachycardia was associated with markedly elevated levels of gaba in dialysates collected from the dorsomedial hypothalamus. neither treatment alone significantly influenced stress-induced increases in heart rate, although perfusion with nipecotic acid alone evoked similar elevations in extracellular gaba. these results suggest that extracellular levels of endogenous gaba in the dorsomedial hypothalamus may regulate the cardiovascular response to stress.
expression of blood group antigens by normal bronchopulmonary tissues and common forms of pulmonary carcinomas. the expression of abh and lewis antigens has been studied in a series of pulmonary carcinomas, in areas of squamous metaplasia, and in normal adjacent bronchopulmonary tissues by means of a panel of lectins and monoclonal antibodies. all respiratory epithelial cells can express antigens, with the exception of glandular serous cells. the expression of ab antigens is rather homogeneous, while lewis antigens are expressed in a more irregular pattern, alternating positively stained cells with negatively stained cells in the same microscopic field. the expression of blood group antigens allows the identification of residual pneumocytes inside the tumor and the proper classification of some neoplasms. metaplastic areas show a variation in the staining profile when compared with normal tissues and pulmonary carcinomas. the most significant findings are the deletion of a antigen and the strong expression of le antigen. pulmonary carcinomas are composed by a heterogeneous population and tend to express antigens in the more differentiated cases or areas. the most important findings are the deletion of ab antigens and the strong expression of le(y) antigen.
kidney function and cardiovascular risk factors in non-insulin-dependent diabetics (niddm) with microalbuminuria. microalbuminuria in non-insulin-dependent diabetes (niddm) is a strong predictor of increased mortality. the major causes of death are cardiovascular, whereas end-stage renal failure is of low frequency. to define kidney function and the presence of some assumed cardiovascular risk factors, we compared a group of 19 microalbuminuric niddm patients (m), of mean age (+/- sd) 65 +/- 4 years, and known duration of diabetes 8 +/- 7 years, with 19 randomly selected matched normoalbuminuric patients (n). seven microalbuminuric patients (p) were also studied. glomerular filtration rate (gfr) did not differ between n and m, whereas kidney volume was increased in m (260.3 +/- 54.1 ml 1.73 m-2) compared to n (220.4 +/- 44.8 ml 1.73 m-2; p = 0.018). the frequency of cardiac disease increased with increasing albuminuria. glycaemic control did not differ between the groups, but fasting plasma c-peptide levels increased from 2.8 +/- 1.1 micrograms l-1 in n, to 3.7 +/- 1.7 micrograms l-1 in m (p = 0.08), and to 4.2 +/- 1.9 micrograms l-1 (p = 0.03) in p. the lipoprotein profile showed no significant differences, although the ldlcholesterol/hdlcholesterol (ldl-c/hdl-c) ratio tended to rise. a significant correlation was found between c-peptide and ldl-c/hdl-c (r = 0.5; p less than 10(-3]. in conclusion, gfr was not increased, and did not differ between n and m, whereas kidney volume was enhanced in m. several assumed cardiovascular risk factors showed values of m intermediate between those of n and p.
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure: a retrospective study. we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications, laboratory data and therapeutic interventions. the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness (40.7%) and convulsions (35.1%). when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1.73 m2, alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1.73 m2, abnormal convulsives appeared. changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension. all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months, and six of them had hemodialysis. fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome. these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child.
treatment of complicated prosthetic aortic valve endocarditis with annular abscess formation by homograft aortic root replacement. the outcome of 30 consecutive patients with active aortic prosthetic valve endocarditis and root abscesses treated by the technique of homograft aortic root replacement with reimplantation of the coronary arteries is detailed. the principles of this technique are the removal of all abscesses and infected areas likely to drain into the infected mediastinum, excision of infected tissues down to healthy noninfected tissue and replacement with an antibiotic-impregnated homograft aortic root. all patients had evidence of progressive cardiac failure and ongoing sepsis. mean patient age (+/- sd) at the time of operation was 42 +/- 18 years. the mean number of previous aortic valve replacements per patient was 1.6 +/- 0.7; 14 patients (47%) had undergone greater than or equal to 2 previous replacements. at operation, aortic root abscesses were found in all patients; abscess extension to adjacent structures and partial valve dehiscence had occurred in 23. in-hospital death occurred in 9 (30%) of the 30 patients. the 21 hospital survivors have been followed up for a mean of 66 +/- 42 months (range 9 to 144). overall, 17 (81%) of the 21 hospital survivors have remained free of major adverse events (recurrence of endocarditis, need for reoperation or death). the results of our study suggest that homograft aortic root replacement should be considered favorably in the treatment of patients with aortic prosthetic valve endocarditis and root abscesses.
bilateral vocal cord teflon injection. an ineffective treatment for recurrent aspiration pneumonia. recurrent aspiration pneumonia is a potentially lethal problem, and its treatment is controversial. a variety of procedures have been advocated to prevent aspiration. these are reviewed briefly. we have been dissatisfied with established procedures because they usually require external approaches with considerable complexity and potential complications. therefore, we attempted to obstruct the glottic airway by injecting both vocal cords with teflon in a series of patients with recurrent aspiration pneumonia secondary to severe neurologic impairments. since teflon injection of the vocal cords bilaterally did not reliably prevent aspiration, we cannot recommend it for routine use in the treatment of chronic aspiration.
cognitive and behavioral effects of the coadministration of dextroamphetamine and haloperidol in schizophrenia. objective: the authors sought to determine if an acute dose of dextroamphetamine might have positive effects on affect and cognition in schizophrenic patients maintained on a regimen of haloperidol and, if so, what variables might predict such improvements. method: twenty-one patients with chronic schizophrenia who were hospitalized on a research ward received a single oral dose of dextroamphetamine (0.25 mg/kg) in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. all patients were receiving 0.4 mg/kg per day of haloperidol. cognitive tests, motor tests, global ratings, mood ratings, and videotape ratings were used to determine the effect of the coadministration of these drugs. ventricle-brain ratios derived from ct scans were used to predict response to the coadministration of these drugs. results: amphetamine improved performance on a measure of concept formation on the wisconsin card sorting test but did not result in changes in performance on tests of memory or attention. as a group, the patients were more active and performed psychomotor tests more quickly while receiving amphetamine. six patients were judged by clinical raters to have improved in terms of affect, cooperation, and engagement with the environment. improvement was associated with enlarged cerebral ventricles and increases in blink rate from the placebo to the active drug condition. no patient unequivocally worsened. conclusions: these results may be consistent with the theory that coadministration of amphetamine and haloperidol produces relatively selective enhancement of cortical dopaminergic activity. however, because of the acute nature of the trial and the specialized research environment in which it was conducted, the authors do not advocate amphetamine as a routine clinical treatment of schizophrenia.
a cost-minimization study of cancer patients requiring a narcotic infusion in hospital and at home. we conducted a retrospective, non-randomized, cost-minimization study, from the perspective of the ministry of health, to compare the cost of managing cancer patients who required narcotic infusions, in hospital and at home. our medical costs averaged $369.72 per inpatient day and $150.24 per outpatient day (saving $219.48 per diem, 1988 canadian dollars), while narcotic costs were the same for any given patient in both settings. sensitivity analysis showed that no reasonable changes in the quantity and cost of services reduced our savings by more than 50%. during incremental analysis, savings increased as more outpatient days were managed by our centre, from $0.00 for 318 days, to more than $500,000 for over 2000 days per annum. as this program has been extremely cost effective and preferred by our patients, other hospitals and central funding agencies might consider establishing a regional outpatient narcotic infusion program to reduce their costs.
unusual malignant neoplasms of the esophagus. oat cell carcinoma, melanoma, and sarcoma. primary noncarcinomatous malignant neoplasms of the esophagus are uncommon and data concerning treatment and results are sparse. to evaluate the results of therapy in this group, we reviewed the records of 32 patients with primary esophageal malignant tumors of unusual histologic type. thirteen patients (41%) had sarcoma, eight (25%) melanoma, and 11 (34%) had oat cell carcinoma. dysphagia was present in 78% (25/32) of the patients for a median of 13 weeks before diagnosis. location of the esophageal primary tumor was upper third in four patients (12%), middle third in 12 (38%), and lower third in 16 (50%). treatment consisted of esophagectomy in 10 of 13 patients with sarcoma (77%), seven of eight with melanoma (88%), and three of 11 with oat cell carcinoma (27%). patients not undergoing resection received chemotherapy or radiation therapy, or both. the 3- and 5-year survival rates were 46% and 23% for sarcoma (median 20 months), 13% and 0% for melanoma (median 5 months), and 0% and 0% for oat cell carcinoma (median 5 months), respectively. distant disease was the initial form of recurrence in 73% (11/15) of patients undergoing curative therapy. surgical resection appears indicated for localized primary esophageal sarcoma. optimum treatment of primary esophageal melanoma is less clear, but surgical resection may be of benefit in selected patients. esophageal oat cell carcinoma is a systemic disease necessitating systemic therapy with local therapy reserved for palliation of dysphagia.
massive allografts in salvage revisions of failed total knee arthroplasties. ten patients with failed total knee arthroplasties and severe bone loss were treated with massive whole distal femur and proximal tibial allografts in combination with prosthetic implants. fourteen allografts were inserted either as invaginated or segmental grafts and were rigidly fixed to the host bone. clinically and roentgenographically, 12 of 14 grafts (86%) seemed to have united to the host bone. the average range of motion was 92 degrees. five patients developed complications; two of these involved the allograft (nonunion and fracture) and two were caused by inadequate healing at the ligament-allograft junction. one patient had a late infection. with careful planning and improved surgical techniques, these complications can be avoided. the massive allograft-prosthesis composite techniques is a viable reconstructive alternative worthy of further clinical trials.
late chronic hemolysis after valve replacement for aortic stenosis. relation to residual hypertrophy and impaired left ventricular function. the relationship between intravascular hemolysis induced by aortic valve prosteses and patient status/left ventricular (lv) function (radionuclide cardiography) was examined in 63 patients of 65 who were alive ten to seventeen years after valve replacement (1965-1973) for aortic stenosis. serum-lactic dehydrogenase (ldh) exceeded upper reference limit in 62 patients and s-haptoglobin (hapto) was reduced in 62. one patient with normal ldh had reduced hapto and elevated plasma-hemoglobin. anemia was noted in 4 patients (6%). s-ldh was higher in men than in women (p less than 0.05), in patients with increased ecg hypertrophy score than in those with a normal score (p less than 0.05), in patients with nyha class ii-iii than in those with class i (p less than 0.05), in patients with abnormal lv function than in those with a normal radionuclide study (p less than 0.05), in patients with a pathologic q wave in the ecg than in those without (p less than 0.05), and in patients with a starr edwards cloth-covered (secc) prosthesis than in those with other types (p = 0.07). ecg hypertrophy score correlated directly with ldh (r = 0.33, p = 0.008) and inversely with lv ejection fraction (r = -0.57, p less than 0.0001), peak ejection rate (r = -0.47, p less than 0.0001), and peak filling rate (r = -0.41, p less than 0.001). multiple linear regression analysis revealed that ldh was accounted for by ecg hypertrophy score (p = 0.001), secc prosthesis (p = 0.04), and male gender (p = 0.05). hypertrophic malfunctioning left ventricles may be responsible for higher degrees of turbulent flow characteristics in the vicinity of prosthetic valves in the aortic position and, by inference, explain the increased tendency toward hemolysis in these patients.
wellness motivation in cardiac rehabilitation. lack of patient adherence to prescribed regimens is a fundamental problem in cardiac rehabilitation programs. a causative factor in lack of patient adherence may be related to failure to address differences in individual health behavior motivation in cardiac rehabilitation. a group of 52 patients who had had myocardial infarction were sampled to test the relationship between social support systems, health locus of control, health value orientations, and wellness motivation. pearson correlation coefficients indicated significant positive correlations between health locus of control variables, health value orientation variations, and wellness motivation. health locus of control and health value orientation variables entered into a multiple regression equation to explain 32% of the variation in wellness motivation. awareness of individual motivational responses that influence health behaviors in cardiac rehabilitation may enable nurses to develop intervention strategies for patients with cardiovascular disease who would benefit from modifying their risk-producing life-styles.
reduction of cardiovascular disease-related mortality among postmenopausal women who use hormones: evidence from a national cohort. a national sample of 1944 white menopausal women greater than or equal to 55 years old from the epidemiologic follow-up of participants in the national health and nutrition examination survey was reviewed to investigate the role of hormone therapy in altering the risk of death from cardiovascular disease. women in the study were observed for up to 16 years after the baseline survey in 1971 to 1975. by 1987 631 women had died; 347 of these deaths were due to cardiovascular disease. history of diabetes (relative risk, 2.38; 95% confidence interval 1.73 to 3.26), previous myocardial infarction (relative risk, 2.12; 95% confidence interval 1.56 to 2.86), smoking (relative risk, 2.18; 95% confidence interval, 1.69 to 2.81), and elevated blood pressure (relative risk, 1.49; 95% confidence interval, 1.14 to 1.94) were strong predictors of cardiovascular disease-related death in this cohort. after adjusting for known cardiovascular disease risk factors (smoking, cholesterol, body mass index, blood pressure, previous myocardial infarction, history of diabetes, age) and education, the use of postmenopausal hormones was associated with a reduced risk of death from cardiovascular disease (relative risk, 0.66; 95% confidence interval, 0.48 to 0.90). the same protective effect provided by postmenopausal hormone therapy was seen in women who experienced natural menopause (relative risk, 0.69; 95% confidence interval, 0.45 to 1.06).
methodology of mental stress testing in cardiovascular research. many issues related to the selection, reliability, and validity of mental stress testing in cardiovascular research are discussed. five categories of mental stress testing are distinguished: problem-solving tasks, information-processing tasks, psychomotor tasks, affective conditions, and aversive or painful conditions. a series of practical and theoretical criteria are outlined for the selection of appropriate tests, and the measurement of a range of dependent variables is emphasized. the temporal stability of cardiovascular responses to mental stress tests is examined through an analysis of test-retest correlations (weighted for sample size) in 28 comparisons with intervals between sessions varying from 1 day to more than 1 year. heart rate reactions to tasks show an average-weighted z of 0.732 +/- 0.031 (r = 0.62), with z = 0.575 +/- 0.034 (r = 0.52) for systolic blood pressure and z = 0.313 +/- 0.035 (r = 0.30) for diastolic blood pressure. it is argued that the validity of mental stress tests can be judged in relation to several different aspects, specifically, methodological, ecological, diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic validities. the nature of these standards is described, and pertinent literature is presented.
adrenal medullitis in type i diabetes. to investigate whether cell-mediated immunity against the adrenal medulla occurs in type i diabetes (iddm), we conducted a retrospective autopsy study of adrenal glands from iddm and nondiabetic subjects using formalin-fixed tissue. forty-four iddm subjects, aged 4-67 yrs (mean +/- sd, 44.8 +/- 15.4) with a duration of iddm from 0-55 yr (28.6 +/- 14.2), and 29 nondiabetic controls, aged 8-82 yr (51.8 +/- 18.6), were evaluated for a lymphocytic infiltrate using uchl1, which recognizes a subpopulation of resting t-lymphocytes and most activated t-lymphocytes. immunohistochemistry using antihuman b-cell antibody (l26) was also performed. sections were scored for both lymphocytic infiltrates and fibrosis [none (0), small (1), moderate (2), or large (3)]. blinded scoring was performed. a moderate to severe uchl1 infiltrate was present in 9 of 44 (20%) iddm, compared with 1 of 29 (3%) control subjects (p less than 0.04). mild to severe fibrosis (score 1, 2, or 3) was present in 22 of 42 (52%) iddm subjects compared with 4 of 25 (16%) control subjects (p = 0.003). eight of 42 (19%) iddm subjects had moderate to severe fibrosis (score 2 or 3) compared with 1 of 25 (4%) control subjects. seventeen of 44 (39%) iddm subjects had either a moderate to large cellular infiltrate or moderate to severe adrenal medullary fibrosis compared with 2 of 29 (7%) control subjects (p = 0.003). staining of the adrenal medulla with l26 revealed a large cellular infiltrate in only one subject who was uchl1 negative. adrenal medullitis was observed in 20% of iddm subjects, suggesting that the adrenal medulla may be another immunological target in iddm.
detection of vascular complications in renal allografts with color doppler flow imaging. one hundred ninety-five color doppler flow (cdf) examinations were performed in 146 renal allografts to assess the capabilities of this technique in detecting intra- or extrarenal vascular complications. conventional angiography was also performed in 44 transplants. in the group of transplants with angiographic correlation, cdf sonography enabled correct identification of 30 of 34 vascular complications. cdf showed 10 of 11 significant stenoses of the renal artery or of one of its main branches. there were two false-positive renal artery stenoses (one normal artery and one 40% stenosis). nine of nine renal artery thromboses and the single pseudoaneurysm were also identified. within the parenchyma, cdf sonography demonstrated five of five segmental infarcts, two of two postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas, and three of six segmental or interlobar artery stenoses. measurement of peak systolic velocity showed a significant difference (p less than .05) between a group (n = 8) with significant stenosis of the renal artery or one of its main branches (mean, 215.2 cm/sec +/- 32) and a group (n = 14) without stenosis (mean, 99.2 cm/sec +/- 19).
l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. we describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias, arthralgias and paresthesias. the physical findings consist of muscle tenderness, neuropathies, rash, peripheral and periorbital edema. electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3. skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema, inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin, whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle. seven patients were treated with prednisone; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted.
progress report of the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study. the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study recently found and reported (spaf investigators, n engl j med, 1990;322:863-868) a beneficial effect of both warfarin and aspirin compared with placebo in the primary prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. among warfarin-eligible patients, the event rates were 1.6%/yr for those receiving active antithrombotic therapy (warfarin or aspirin) and 8.3%/yr for those receiving placebo (p less than 0.00005) (risk reduction 81%, 95% confidence interval 56-91). ironically, we did not find a beneficial effect of aspirin in warfarin-ineligible patients. on the basis of these results, the study has been reshaped to directly compare these two antithrombotic agents. insight into the apparent aspirin unresponsiveness noted in some patients also is being sought. interpretation of the preliminary results and the reshaping of the study have been made more complex by the continued blinding of the investigators to certain portions of the data. presented is an account of the study from its inception through its recent redesign.
left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement measured by ultrafast computed tomography. left ventricular mass and function were measured using ultrafast computed tomography, and were correlated with clinical status in 17 patients with aortic stenosis and/or insufficiency undergoing aortic valve replacement or balloon valvuloplasty. wall mass was 159 +/- 38 gm/m2 initially, decreased 25% to 116 +/- 29 gm/m2 at 4 month (p less than 0.001), and decreased a total of 34% to 105 +/- 33 gm/m2 at 8 months after valve repair. by 8 months not only was the mean wall mass within the normal range, but only three patients retained abnormal hypertrophy. ejection fraction increased 8% (p = 0.06). clinical function improved in all patients, with only three patients remaining outside of new york heart association functional class 1 at 8 months. regression of ventricular mass into the normal range correlated with attainment of class 1 functional status (p less than 0.02), despite a lack of increase of ejection fraction. the single patient followed for 8 months after valvuloplasty had minor wall mass regression and minor clinical improvement.
prehospital thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. the benefit and risk of prehospital thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction (ami) were evaluated in a double-blind randomized trial. patients presenting less than 4 hours after symptom onset received 2 million units of urokinase as an intravenous bolus either before (group a, n = 40) or after (group b, n = 38) hospital admission. the mean time interval from onset of symptoms to thrombolytic therapy was 85 +/- 51 minutes in group a and 137 +/- 50 minutes in group b (p less than 0.0005). in 91% of the patients, thrombolytic therapy was administered less than 3 hours after symptom onset. complication rates during the pre- and in-hospital period were low and did not differ between groups. three patients died (1 in group a, 2 in group b) from reinfarction 7 to 14 days after admission. left-sided cardiac catheterization before discharge revealed a patency rate in the infarct-related artery of 61% in group a and 67% in group b (difference not significant). global left ventricular function and regional wall motion at the infarct site did not differ significantly between group a and b (ejection fraction 51 +/- 10%, n = 28 vs 53 +/- 14%, n = 28; wall motion -2.3 +/- 1.3 vs -2.2 +/- 1.1 standard deviation, respectively). also, peak creatine kinase did not differ significantly (838 +/- 634 u/liter in group a vs 924 +/- 595 u/liter in group b). prehospital thrombolysis using a bolus injection of urokinase has a low risk when performed by a trained physician with a mobile care unit. the saving of 45 minutes in the early stage of an acute infarction through prehospital thrombolysis did not appear to be important for salvage of myocardial function.
discordant bone marrow involvement in diffuse large-cell lymphoma: a distinct clinical-pathologic entity associated with a continuous risk of relapse. from 1975 to 1988, 50 patients with lymph node biopsy-documented diffuse large-cell lymphoma (dlcl) presented with bone marrow involvement. twenty-four patients (48%) had large-cell lymphoma (lcl) in the bone marrow and were compared with 19 (38%) patients who had small cleaved-cell lymphoma (sccl) in the marrow. additionally, seven patients (14%) had mixed small- and large-cell lymphoma (ml) in the marrow. patients who had lcl marrow involvement were younger (p less than .02) and more frequently had elevated lactic dehydrogenase (ldh) levels (p less than .001), high tumor burden (p less than .01), and more sites of extranodal disease (p less than .05) than those with sccl in the marrow. the complete response (cr) rate to multiagent chemotherapy was 16.7% in the lcl group and 89.4% in the sccl group (p less than .001). one third of the patients with lcl in the marrow developed cns involvement, compared with only one patient in the sccl group (p = .06). overall 5-year survival was 79% in patients with sccl marrow involvement, compared with only 12% in patients with lcl in the marrow (p = .002). despite a high cr rate, patients with marrow involved by sccl were at a high continuous risk of relapse with only a 30% failure-free survival at 5 years. we conclude that bone marrow involvement with lcl predicts for extremely poor prognosis with low response rate and short survival. patients with sccl in the bone marrow have a high rate of cr and a high rate of 5-year survival; however, there is a high risk of late relapse, and only 15% are in a continuous remission at 8 years.
treatment of intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy with thrombin. report of three patients. of 165 consecutive patients undergoing computerized tomography- or magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotactic brain biopsies at the cleveland clinic between june, 1987, and november, 1989, four patients (2.4%) developed arterial hemorrhage refractory to conventional efforts to secure hemostasis. craniotomy was performed in one of these patients to control the hemorrhage; in the other three, 0.5 to 2 cc of thrombin (5000 u/cc) was slowly injected via the biopsy cannula, resulting in immediate control of bleeding in all three cases. postoperatively, the first two patients treated with 1 to 2 cc of thrombin were slow to awaken; one had evidence of vasospasm by transcranial doppler ultrasound studies and multiple infarcts on cranial computerized tomography, while the other had a moderate-sized frontal hematoma with intracranial hypertension. after prolonged recovery periods, only mild neurological deficits persisted in both patients. the third patient, treated with 0.5 cc of thrombin, had an uneventful postoperative course. thrombin is highly effective for stopping intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy; however, it is a vasospastic agent and may have been responsible for the cerebral infarctions in one patient. therefore, thrombin should be used only as a last resort, short of craniotomy, to control intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy.
the role of tumor-derived cytokines on the immune system of mice bearing a mammary adenocarcinoma. i. induction of regulatory macrophages in normal mice by the in vivo administration of rgm-csf. using a dimethylbenzanthracene-induced immunogenic nonmetastatic murine mammary adenocarcinoma in balb/c mice, our previous work has shown that splenocytes from tumor bearers have reduced responses to both mitogens and ag including tumor-associated ag. nk and cytotoxic t cell activities are also reduced in splenocytes of tumor bearers. mac-1+2+ macrophages induced in mammary tumor bearers are capable of down-regulating lymphocyte responses to mitogens and tumor-associated ag by cell to cell contact interaction and increased pge2 production. we have found that the tumor constitutively releases a granulocyte-macrophage (gm)-csf-like factor in vivo and in vitro, which may be responsible for the systemic increase in cells of the macrophage lineage in tumor-bearing mice. a tumor cell line established from the in vivo tumor expresses and releases gm-csf as shown by northern and western blot analyses. daily i.p. injections for 3 wk of 10,000 u of rgm-csf into normal mice induces hemopoietic and immunologic alterations similar to those observed in tumor bearers. mac-1+ and/or mac-2+ macrophages can also be detected in the spleens and bone marrow of the mice treated with rgm-csf. additionally, splenocytes from rgm-csf-treated mice have reduced responses to mitogens and their peritoneal exudate cells can cause in vitro down-regulation of proliferative responses of lymphocytes from normal mice. the suppression can be partially reversed by the addition of indomethacin to the cultures suggesting that pge2 may contribute to the effect. rgm-csf enhances the in vitro release of pge2 by the spleen, bone marrow, and peritoneal cells of normal mice. these data indicate that the high levels of gm-csf constitutively produced by the tumor may be responsible for the hemopoietic changes and immunologic alterations observed in tumor-bearing mice.
gross and microscopic changes in the viscera induced by photodynamic therapy applied to the lower abdomen of intact rats. photodynamic therapy (pdt) is a promising approach to the treatment of cancer. preferential retention of the photosensitizer by malignant tissue has been considered a hallmark of this treatment modality. however, photosensitivity can be observed in normal, non-neoplastic tissues, and the present study investigated the effects of pdt treatment on the abdomen of intact rats. a circular region (1 cm diameter) on the shaved abdomen of fischer rats, pretreated 24 h prior with photofrin ii, was irradiated for 30 min at 632 nm. control animals received either photoradiation or photofrin ii administration. subsequent lesions were observed in the irradiated skin, its associated abdominal wall, and the underlying gut in rats receiving photofrin ii and laser irradiation. all tissues were not equally sensitive to pdt treatment. gut lesions were consistently more severe than were skin and abdominal wall injuries. by 24 hr after treatment, the gut manifested a transmural hemorrhagic necrosis, while the irradiated skin and abdominal wall were edematous, with an inflammatory infiltrate in the dermis and around occasional swollen myocytes. these results indicate that superficial lesions induced by pdt may not be reliable indicators of the extent of deeper pdt tissue damage. further, it may be possible to take advantage of this discrepancy in tissue sensitivity and treat deep tissues through less sensitive superficial tissues.
adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with xxy karyotype and chronic lymphocytic leukemia: report of a case. we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with 47xxy karyotype (klinefelter's syndrome) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. the increased incidence of malignancy in individuals with klinefelter's syndrome has been well documented for certain neoplasms. adenocarcinoma of the prostate has not been reported previously in a patient with klinefelter's syndrome and a 47xxy karyotype. absence of mosaicism was confirmed by peripheral lymphocyte, skin fibroblast, bone marrow cell and spleen stroma fibroblast cultures. chronic lymphocyte leukemia, especially the t-cell cytotoxic/suppressive variant, may additionally add to an immunological deficit. since carcinoma of the prostate, klinefelter's syndrome and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are common, the lack of a previous report is interesting. etiological aspects are discussed.
tissue expansion in the treatment of pressure ulcers. the authors report their experience using skin expanders in 11 patients with severe bed sores. the expanders, with different volumes, from 250 to 1000 cc, were generally overfilled using the cutaneous tonometer. in fact, with the information revealed by this apparatus on the skin in expansion, the authors were able to reduce the filling intervals without risking ulceration. in their experience, the results obtained were satisfactory: all patients treated achieved surgical recovery. the authors see a wide future for skin-expander use in pressure-ulcer treatment. they have a working hypothesis about using expanders to progressively advance sensitive skin in areas subject to ulceration. this hypothesis is based on the possibility of reexpanding the same flap several times, as has been seen in the treatment of other types of pathology.
effects of intravenous verapamil on left ventricular relaxation and filling in stable angina pectoris. left ventricular (lv) diastolic function is often impaired in coronary artery disease (cad). to assess whether verapamil could improve lv diastolic properties, 12 patients with cad undergoing right- and left-sided cardiac catheterization, as well as simultaneous radionuclide angiography, were studied before and during intravenous administration of verapamil (0.1 mg/kg as a bolus followed by 0.007 mg/kg/min). the heart rate was kept constant by atrial pacing in both studies. lv pressure-volume relations were obtained. verapamil decreased lv systolic pressure (130 +/- 22 to 117 +/- 16 mm hg, p less than 0.01) and the end-systolic pressure/volume ratio (2.4 +/- 1.3 to 1.6 +/- 0.5 mm hg/ml, p less than 0.05), and increased lv end-diastolic (13 +/- 4 to 16 +/- 4 mm hg, p less than 0.02) and pulmonary capillary pressures (10 +/- 5 to 12 +/- 5 mm hg, p less than 0.005). despite such negative inotropic effects, cardiac index increased (3.4 +/- 0.7 to 3.9 +/- 0.6 liters/min/m2, p less than 0.02). the time constant of isovolumic relaxation shortened (63 +/- 14 to 47 +/- 9 ms, p less than 0.02); peak filling rate increased (370 +/- 155 to 519 +/- 184 ml/s, p less than 0.001; 2.6 +/- 1.1 to 3.3 +/- 0.9 end-diastolic counts/s, p less than 0.02; and 4.1 +/- 1.6 to 5.5 +/- 1.5 stroke counts/s, p less than 0.001).
gene mapping and other tools for discovery. genetic mapping provides a means of understanding the molecular basis of inherited diseases whose biochemistry is unknown. adequate pedigrees, informative genetic markers, and accurate identification of the disease phenotype are necessary. for dominant inheritance, mapping studies can be done in a single large pedigree; the larger the number of affected individuals sampled the better the estimate of recombination between the gene causing the disease and one or more nearby genetic markers. for recessive inheritance, nuclear families with more than one affected sibling provide the best information. the development of many polymorphic dna markers on the human genome has contributed to the success of mapping unknown genes because, as the genome is now densely covered with markers, the probability is good that at least one marker will be linked to the disease locus in a family that is segregating a disease allele. most genetic markers now in use depend upon restriction fragment length polymorphisms (rflps), which are either the result of single-base-pair substitution or the presence of a variable number of tandemly repeated oligonucleotide units at a locus (vntrs). rflps can be recognized by digesting dna with restriction enzymes and separating the fragments by size on an electrophoretic gel. vntrs can vary widely among individuals, and they provide more linkage information than single-site polymorphic markers because family members are more likely to be heterozygous. genetic maps of each chromosome, constructed from linkage data relating marker loci to one another in normal reference families, permit rational choices of markers for disease-mapping studies.
reduction of postoperative morbidity following patient-controlled morphine the present study examined the impact of two methods of pain management on recovery in 38 women undergoing hysterectomy. one group received iv morphine in the recovery room and im morphine on the ward on a prn basis (prn group). in the other group, a loading dose of morphine 8 mg iv was given when the patient first complained of pain and patient-controlled iv morphine (pca) was initiated and continued for 48 h (pca group). both groups received similar amounts of morphine overall, differently distributed over time. the pca patients received 8 mg.h-1 in the recovery room (approximately 2.5 hrs) and less thereafter. the prn patients received approximately 2 mg.h-1 for the entire 48-hr period. pain control was better throughout convalescence and less variable across time with pca management. minute ventilation also recovered faster and by day four was 25 per cent above the preoperative baseline in the pca group. in addition, oral temperature became normal one day earlier, ambulation recovered more rapidly and patients were discharged from hospital earlier. the data suggest that early treatment with relatively high, self-titrated morphine doses may alter the course of the metabolic response to surgery.
paraneoplastic brachial plexopathy in a patient with hodgkin's disease. we describe a case of inflammatory brachial plexopathy that occurred in the context of a mild, diffuse sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy associated with hodgkin's disease. clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic studies helped distinguish this disorder from other causes of brachial plexopathy in patients with cancer. treatment with corticosteroids seemed beneficial in this patient. we suggest that this may be another type of paraneoplastic condition associated with hodgkin's disease.
characterization in vitro of a human tumor necrosis factor-binding protein. a soluble form of a tumor necrosis factor receptor. tumor necrosis factor (tnf) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammatory responses. a cysteine-rich, highly glycosylated 30-kd tnf-binding protein (tnf-bp) purified from urine may have a role in regulation because it protects in vitro against the biological effects of tnf. the cytotoxic effect of tnf on the fibrosarcoma cell line wehi 164 was inhibited by 50% at a 10-fold excess of tnf-bp. the binding of tnf to the receptor was partially reversed after the addition of tnf-bp. results from biosynthetic labeling of cells with 35s-cysteine followed by immunoprecipitation with anti-tnf-bp indicated that tnf-bp is formed and released at the cell surface by cleavage because no corresponding cellular polypeptide was observed. a cellular 60-kd polypeptide, which was immunoprecipitated with anti-tnf-bp, may correspond to the transmembrane tnf-receptor molecule and be the precursor of tnf-bp. thus, tnf-bp appears to be a soluble form of a transmembrane tnf-receptor. moreover our results demonstrate that the production of tnf-bp is increased when the tnf receptor is downregulated in cells by treatment with tnf or by activation of protein kinase c with phorbol esters. tnf-bp may be an important agent that blocks harmful effects of tnf, and, therefore, useful in clinical applications.
linkage of early-onset familial breast cancer to chromosome 17q21. human breast cancer is usually caused by genetic alterations of somatic cells of the breast, but occasionally, susceptibility to the disease is inherited. mapping the genes responsible for inherited breast cancer may also allow the identification of early lesions that are critical for the development of breast cancer in the general population. chromosome 17q21 appears to be the locale of a gene for inherited susceptibility to breast cancer in families with early-onset disease. genetic analysis yields a lod score (logarithm of the likelihood ratio for linkage) of 5.98 for linkage of breast cancer susceptibility to d17s74 in early-onset families and negative lod scores in families with late-onset disease. likelihood ratios in favor of linkage heterogeneity among families ranged between 2000:1 and greater than 10(6):1 on the basis of multipoint analysis of four loci in the region.
spontaneous necrosis in osteosarcoma. the percentage of necrosis in a primary osteosarcoma after the patient has received preoperative chemotherapy is prognostic and is usually used to select subsequent chemotherapy. however, the percentage of necrosis that occurs spontaneously, without preoperative chemotherapy, has not been adequately studied. the examination of histologic macrosections of 76 osteosarcomas from patients who had not received preoperative treatment and of 20 patients who had received preoperative chemotherapy revealed a significant difference in the percentage of necrosis. there was minimal spontaneous necrosis, but necrosis after preoperative chemotherapy was usually extensive. the larger the tumor, the greater the percentage of spontaneous necrosis; however, size did not correlate with the percentage of necrosis with preoperative chemotherapy. survival among those patients who did not receive preoperative treatment correlated with the size and percentage of necrosis. necrosis in an osteosarcoma in a patient who has received preoperative chemotherapy can be considered the result of chemotherapy and not a spontaneous event.
presymptomatic and prenatal diagnosis of myotonic muscular dystrophy with linked dna probes. advances in neurogenetics are facilitating clinical care. localization of the mutant gene that causes myotonic muscular dystrophy (dm) to chromosome 19 enabled our predictive testing using linked dna probes in 74 members of 12 families at risk. individuals sought either diagnostic confirmation or exclusion with childbearing in mind, or requested prenatal diagnosis. valuable information was provided for 11 of 12 families. of 14 individuals at 50% risk, 12 learned they did not have dm, two learned they did (although presymptomatic), and prenatal diagnoses of affected fetuses were made in three families--all with high degrees of certainty. the future opportunity for prenatal diagnosis was provided for 3 other families. the potential health risks to an affected female and her affected or nonaffected fetus provide cogent reasons for physicians to inform dm families in their care about these important advances and opportunities to avert grave complications.
role of angioplasty in myocardial infarction management strategies: a review. the role of angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction has been extensively studied in the past few years. although angioplasty in some circumstances can be the primary reperfusion intervention, logistic problems and the excellent results of intravenous thrombolytic therapy have resulted in postlytic angioplasty being the preferred use of this interventional strategy. clinical trials of this strategy have not supported its routine use, however, and a much more selective application of postthrombolytic coronary artery dilation is advocated at this time.
neonatal small bowel atresia, stenosis and segmental dilatation. in 8 years, 44 neonates were treated for small bowel atresia, stenosis or segmental dilatation by one surgical team. there was a single lesion in 30 infants and 14 had two or more sites of intestinal obstruction. associated gastrointestinal abnormalities were found in 23 (52 per cent) patients. resection of the atresia(s) and primary anastomosis were performed in 34 infants and staged procedures were carried out in ten patients with complicated lesions. patients undergoing staged procedures had a higher complication rate than those having primary repair (six out of ten and 11 out of 34 respectively). the overall initial survival rate was 93 per cent, rising to 100 per cent in those without associated anomalies or prenatal complications, but more than a quarter (27 per cent) of survivors have long-term disabilities.
cerebral falciparum malaria mimicking thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. we have described a patient with cerebral falciparum malaria who had rapidly progressive cns deterioration, renal failure, hemolytic anemia associated with striking and varied erythrocyte morphologic changes, and thrombocytopenia. the initial diagnosis was thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp) of unknown origin. reexamination of the peripheral smear of this comatose patient led to correct diagnosis and effective treatment in this case of cerebral falciparum malaria--another of medicine's great mimickers.
gallstone pancreatitis. choosing and timing treatment. patients with gallstone pancreatitis are often seen initially by primary care physicians. prompt diagnosis and timely intervention are crucial in reducing morbidity and mortality. initial management should include supportive medical care and surgical consultation. the timing of surgery is then dictated by serum enzyme levels and liver function test results as well as by the patient's condition. the role of endoscopic intervention is currently evolving. whether surgery or endoscopic sphincterotomy is preferable as primary therapy for gallstone pancreatitis remains unresolved. however, sphincterotomy with stone extraction is a viable option in selected cases, especially in patients who have severe gallstone pancreatitis.
obesity, glucose intolerance, hyperinsulinemia, and response to antihypertensive drugs. responsiveness to antihypertensive medications was investigated cross-sectionally in 559 individuals comprising all treated hypertensive patients identified within a representative sample (n = 3,532, aged 40-70 years) of the jewish population in israel. a rate of dosage score (a summed ranking of dosages of all drugs taken) of two or more increased significantly with increasing levels of body mass index (bmi) from 37.5% in levels less than 23, 54.9% in levels 23.0-29.9, and 76.4% in levels of 30 or greater (p less than 0.0001). multivariate analyses, adjusting for age, gender, arm circumference, and ethnic group, confirmed the independent effect of bmi on dosage score (p less than 0.001). at each level of dosage score, mean blood pressure levels were equivalent at all levels of bmi after adjusting for potential confounders. this indicates that achieved blood pressure level and not bmi itself was the main determinant of the higher dosing regimens prescribed at higher levels of bmi. in representative subgroups, glucose tolerance (n = 372) and hyperinsulinemia (n = 190) were determined and were found to be positively associated with a dosage score of two or more (p less than 0.05) independently of bmi. these effects could not be accounted for by poor compliance or by altered drug absorption or disposition since overnight urinary drug excretion and plasma drug concentrations 2 hours after ingestion, measured in 80 randomly selected patients from the study group, were not different across bmi categories at similar dosages.
thoracoplasty: current application to the infected pleural space thoracoplasty, once commonly used in the management of cavitary pulmonary disease, continues to find application in the obliteration of infected pleural spaces. this study reports a series of 13 patients receiving thoracoplasty between 1976 and 1989. five patients had chronic apical empyema spaces without prior resection of lung tissue. two of the empyemas were due to tuberculosis, two were due to atypical mycobacteria, and one was due to postpneumonic empyema. all patients had extensive destruction of upper lobe tissue. eight patients had undergone prior pulmonary resection; 3 had persistent infected spaces in the early postoperative period, 3 had development of empyemas and bronchopleural fistulas late (5 to 19 years) after pulmonary resection, and 2 had postpneumonectomy empyema. all patients had rigid cavity walls preventing space obliteration by rib removal alone and required concomitant resection of the thickened pleura and intercostal muscle tissues. bronchopleural fistulas were present in 11 patients and were closed with adjacent nonintercostal muscle. all patients survived and had successful obliteration of the infected spaces with acceptable physiological and cosmetic results. we conclude that thoracoplasty remains a useful procedure in the management of the infected pleural space in select patients.
dynamic association between artery shear flow condition and platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration in human hypertension. 1. blood cells and vascular endothelial cells are subjected to a wide range of haemodynamically generated shear stress forces. in vitro, membrane stretching or shear stress have been observed to activate ion channels and cell metabolism and to facilitate erythrocyte and platelet aggregation. 2. the present study was designed to evaluate the participation of shear stresses in the control of apparent platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration in hypertensive patients. 3. shear conditions and platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration in vitro were studied after a dynamic perturbation induced by 3 months of double-blind treatment with one of two beta-antagonists, carteolol and atenolol. brachial artery wall shear rate and stress were estimated by means of a pulsed doppler velocimeter, and blood viscosity was measured by a co-axial viscometer at a shear rate of 96 s-1. platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration was simultaneously measured by using the quin-2 fluorescent chelator. the direct effect of atenolol and carteolol on platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration in vitro was also measured after addition of the beta-blockers to platelet-rich plasma. 4. atenolol and carteolol decreased blood pressure similarly but their effects on shear rate (p less than 0.02), shear stress (p less than 0.01) and platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration (p less than 0.05) differed after 3 months of therapy. in contrast, neither of the drugs significantly altered platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration, in vitro per se. 5. in the overall population, strong positive correlations existed not only between changes in platelet cytosolic free ca2+ concentration and those in shear rate (r = 0.81, p less than 0.001) and shear stress (r = 0.83, p less than 0.001), but also between their absolute values, suggesting a possible haemodynamic shear-dependent modulation of transmembrane ca2+ transport.
oxygen free radicals in acute pancreatitis of the rat. this study aimed to assess the role of oxygen free radicals in acute pancreatitis. acute pancreatitis was induced in rats by infusion of the cck-analogue cerulein (5 micrograms/kg per hour) for 30 minutes, 3.5 hours, and 12 hours. after the infusion, serum enzymes and conjugated tissue dienes and malondialdehyde were measured and tissue samples were subjected to electron and light microscopy. electron microscopy after 30 minutes showed moderate intracellular alterations. after 3.5 hours of cerulein infusion interstitial oedema and intravascular margination of granulocytes in the pancreatic gland were seen. after 12 hours histological evaluation showed pronounced zymogen degranulation, extensive tissue necrosis, and migration of granulocytes into the tissue. amylase and lipase activities increased 15 and 35-fold respectively during this time. after 30 minutes of cerulein infusion conjugated dienes and malondialdehyde increased, they reached their peak after 3.5 hours and decreased to normal values after 12 hours. treatment with superoxide dismutase (100,000 u/kg/hour) and catalase (400,000 u/kg/hour) either before or after the start of the cerulein infusion prevented lipid peroxidation and reduced zymogen degranulation and tissue necrosis. tissue oedema and inflammatory response, however, were not affected in any of the treated rats. oxygen free radicals are instrumental in the development of acute pancreatitis. even after its onset, scavenger treatment reduced the tissue damage normally observed.
remodeling of the rat right and left ventricles in experimental hypertension. pathological left ventricular hypertrophy in renovascular hypertension is associated with the accumulation of fibrillar collagen within the extracellular space and around intramyocardial coronary arteries. even though the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril was previously found to attenuate this interstitial and perivascular fibrosis, the relative importance of arterial and ventricular systolic pressures versus circulating angiotensin ii (aii) and aldosterone (al) in promoting hypertrophy and collagen accumulation in renovascular hypertension is uncertain. by drawing on the in-parallel arrangement of the right and left ventricles, with respect to their coronary circulation, and the in-series mechanical alignment of the ventricles, with a pressure-overloaded left and a normotensive right ventricle, this study sought to address this uncertainty. three models of experimental hypertension, each having a different circulating aii and al profile, were examined and compared with their controls: renovascular hypertension, where both aii and al are increased; infrarenal aorta banding, where aii and al are normal; and a chronic infusion of al, where aii is suppressed or normal and al is increased. in renovascular hypertension, as well as with al, we found a significant rise in the interstitial collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area of the pressure-overloaded, hypertrophied left ventricle as well as the normotensive, nonhypertrophied right ventricle. this remodeling was not seen in either ventricle with infrarenal aorta banding despite comparable systemic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. thus, in experimental arterial hypertension in the rat, myocyte and nonmyocyte compartments of the myocardium are under separate controls: myocyte hypertrophy is most closely related to ventricular loading while circulating aii and al, acting alone or in concert with other humoral factors, regulate the accumulation of collagen within the right and left ventricles.
anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis. anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis. in six patients with constipation, three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea. one patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom. three patients had no anorectal symptoms. anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures, although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found. pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal. in four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve. two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation. it is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders. although anal sphincter function is reduced, fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group. the reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated, thus securing fecal continence.
idiopathic and symptomatic trigeminal pain. the trigeminal reflexes (corneal reflex, blink reflex, masseter inhibitory periods, jaw-jerk) and far field scalp potentials (nerve, root, brainstem, subcortical) evoked by percutaneous infraorbital stimulation were recorded in 30 patients with "idiopathic" trigeminal neuralgia (itn) and 20 with "symptomatic" trigeminal pain (stp): seven postherpetic neuralgia, five multiple sclerosis, four tumour, two vascular malformation, one tolosa-hunt syndrome, and one traumatic fracture. all the patients with stp and two of those with itn had trigeminal reflex abnormalities; 80% of patients with stp and 30% of those with itn had evoked potential abnormalities. the results indicate that 1) trigeminal reflexes and evoked potentials are both useful in the examination of patients with trigeminal pain, and in cases secondary to specific pathologies provide 100% sensitivity; 2) in "symptomatic" and "idiopathic" paroxysmal pain the primary lesion affects the afferent fibres in the proximal portion of the root or the intrinsic portion in the pons; 3) primary sensory neurons of the a-beta fibre group are involved in both paroxysmal and constant pain, but in the latter the damage is far more severe.
follow-up of patients who underwent arterial switch repair for transposition of the great arteries thirty infants underwent arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries within the first week of life (mean age, 2.8 days). an additional three patients underwent repair at 5 1/2, 8, and 9 1/2 months of age. six (18.2%) of 33 patients died. all the survivors were not receiving cardiac medications or diuretics at the time of the last follow-up visit. examination of 24 of 27 survivors at 1 to 5 years of age revealed normal growth in 75% of the patients. two patients had height, weight, and head circumference below the fifth percentile for age. four patients had height and weight appropriate for age but head circumference below the fifth percentile. neurodevelopmental testing yielded normal findings in 18 patients. three patients were considered suspect and an additional three were abnormal neurodevelopmentally. head circumference less than the fifth percentile, abnormalities on computed tomographic scans of the brain, and emergency balloon atrial septostomy or emergency switch operation were more likely to occur in patients who had low neurodevelopmental scores. we conclude that the majority of patients who undergo arterial switch repair demonstrate normal growth and development and no impairment of cardiovascular function. however, significant morbidity in the form of neurodevelopmental problems may occur.
carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. optimal treatment for unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas remains controversial. this study was done to examine the relationship between perioperative jaundice and postoperative morbidity, and type of palliative biliary bypass and postoperative morbidity and jaundice clearance. seventy-six patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas were studied. forty-nine patients underwent one of four different types of palliative bypass: 1, cholecystojejunostomy (n = 22); 2, choledochojejunostomy (n = 11); 3, choledochoduodenostomy (n = 9), and 4, cholecystoduodenostomy (n = 7). age, sex and preoperative health status were similar for all operative groups, as well as for those with and without postoperative morbidity. the postoperative complication rate was 33 per cent and there was one postoperative death. length of preoperative jaundice and peak preoperative bilirubin levels were independent of morbidity. postoperative morbidity was similar for each type of bypass used and no significant difference was found when cholecystoenteric (1 and 4) and choledochoenteric (2 and 3) bypass were compared. the results of this study support the view that postoperative morbidity is not directly related to the presence of jaundice preoperatively. furthermore, the rate of jaundice clearance and the occurrence of postoperative complications are not dependent on the type of bypass used.
nonsurgical management of breast infections in nonlactating women. a word of caution. management options for infectious mastitis have traditionally been limited to surgical drainage. with the advent of percutaneous fine needle aspiration (fna), nonoperative treatment may be an alternative, though criteria for use have not been defined. during a 30-month period, 22 women presented with breast infection. treatment was instituted based upon the clinical stage of infection. patients with cellulitis (n = 8) were managed with diagnostic fna/antibiotics. those with focal abscess (n = 10) underwent fna of the cavity/antibiotics. patients with multiloculated abscess (n c = 3) underwent urgent surgical drainage. of the 19 patients initially treated nonoperatively, resolution occurred in nine (47%); stage of infection did not effect outcome. surgical drainage was required in the remainder; two cancers were found. fna cytology in these (and all) patients was negative for malignancy. all underwent mammography during treatment. in 17 (77%) cancer was considered of low probability. the only patient with a mammogram highly suspicious for cancer had fat necrosis on biopsy. bacterial cultures were positive in 79 per cent, virtually all with gram (+) cocci. four patients harbored gram (-) organisms as well, two in concert with breast cancer. conclusions: 1) select breast infections can be successfully managed nonoperatively, 2) the accuracy of fna and mammography in the diagnosis of breast cancer may be impaired by coincident infection, 3) the finding of a gram (-) breast infection warrants abandonment of nonoperative management in favor of tissue confirmation of the disease process.
an evaluation of a 30-gauge needle for spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section. a 30-gauge spinal needle was evaluated for caesarean section, using a combined epidural/spinal technique, in 50 mothers. spinal anaesthesia failed in six mothers and was inadequate in another six. general anaesthesia was required on one occasion. a 25% overall failure rate suggests that a 30-gauge needle is not a practical proposition for routine clinical practice.
effect of delayed captopril therapy on left ventricular mass and myonecrosis during acute coxsackievirus murine myocarditis. the effect of captopril on coxsackievirus b3 murine myocarditis was investigated. thirty-two, 3-week-old mice were infected with coxsackievirus b3 on day 0 of the study, then randomized into a placebo group or a captopril group starting on day 3 of infection. on day 9 of infection, the mice were put to death. hearts were weighed and processed for light microscopic examination. heart weight was 125 +/- 19 mg in the control group versus 102 +/- 14 mg in the captopril group (p less than 0.0003). amount of necrosis as a percentage of left ventricular section was 3.5% (2.0% to 7.5%) in the placebo group versus 2.0% (0.0% to 5.0%) in the captopril group (p less than 0.01). the amount of dystrophic calcification was 5.0% (0.0% to 27.5%) in the placebo group versus 1.3% (0.0% to 20.0%) in the captopril group (p less than 0.01). the extent of the histopathologic involvement by planimetry was 10.2% in the placebo group versus 5.4% in the captopril group (p = 0.052). we conclude that captopril is beneficial in decreasing left ventricular mass and the amount of myocardial necrosis and calcification in the short term in the murine myocarditis model.
renal manifestations of nacl sensitivity in borderline hypertensive rats. compared with the normotensive wistar-kyoto rat, the spontaneously hypertensive rat exhibits exaggerated alterations in renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory function during volume expansion (exaggerated natriuresis) and environmental stress (antinatriuresis). the borderline hypertensive rat is the first filial offspring of the spontaneously hypertensive rat and the wistar-kyoto rat and develops hypertension with increased dietary nacl intake. the present investigation sought to determine whether the dietary nacl intake-induced transition from the normotensive state of the wistar-kyoto parent to the hypertensive state of the spontaneously hypertensive parent in the borderline hypertensive rat was accompanied by a similar transition of the renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress. borderline hypertensive rats fed a 1% nacl diet remained normotensive and exhibited renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress that were similar to those of their wistar-kyoto parent. borderline hypertensive rats fed an 8% nacl diet developed hypertension and exhibited responses that were similar to those of their spontaneously hypertensive parent. thus, the dietary nacl intake-induced transition from the normotensive state of the wistar-kyoto parent to the hypertensive state of the spontaneously hypertensive parent in the borderline hypertensive rat was accompanied by a similar transition of the renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress. the results suggest that increased dietary nacl intake is able to induce or unmask the capabilities for these responses, which are genetically conveyed to the borderline hypertensive rat by the spontaneously hypertensive rat parent in latent forms.
the use of ptfe graft to correct anomalous drainage of persistent left superior vena cava. a new technique to correct persistent left superior vena cava (lsvc) drainage into the left atrium is described in a 14-year-old patient with situs inversus, left atrial isomerism common atrium, and mitral valve regurgitation. during surgery, occlusion of the lsvc markedly increased the venous pressure, precluding its ligation. because of the malposition of the heart and the unusual atrial anatomy, correction with an intra-atrial baffle was not attempted. after correcting the intra-cardiac anomaly, the lsvc was divided and anastomosed to the "right" atrial appendage using a segment of ptfe graft. the postoperative course was uneventful and an angiogram demonstrated excellent performance of the graft.
efficacy and safety of intravenous nicardipine in the control of postoperative hypertension. iv nicardipine study group. in a double-blind, randomized, multicenter study, the efficacy and safety of intravenous (iv) nicardipine was compared with placebo in the control of postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients. one hundred twenty-two patients (17 cardiac and 105 noncardiac surgery) met the entry criteria (systolic bp greater than or equal to 140 mm hg or diastolic bp greater than or equal to 95 mm hg) and were randomized (3:2) to receive iv nicardipine (n = 71) or placebo (n = 51). therapeutic response (greater than or equal to 15 percent reduction in bp from baseline) was achieved in 94 percent of patients treated with iv nicardipine vs 12 percent with placebo (p less than 0.001). the mean response time and infusion rate for iv nicardipine were 11.5 (+/- 0.8) minutes and 12.8 (+/- 0.3) mg/h, respectively. the magnitude of bp reduction was similar in both cardiac and noncardiac postsurgical patients. blood pressure control was sustained with minimal dose adjustments of iv nicardipine (3.0 +/- 0.2 mg/h) during a prolonged maintenance infusion period of 6.8 +/- 0.5 h. a reflex mean increase in heart rate of 5 bpm was seen in patients treated with iv nicardipine. sixteen patients (15 noncardiac and one cardiac surgery) had a sustained heart rate of greater than 100 bpm, with a mean increase of 24 bpm from the baseline. in all these patients except three, tachycardia was resolved while receiving nicardipine. none of these patients who had development of tachycardia during nicardipine therapy had exhibited st segment changes indicative of ischemia. one patient with tachycardia at baseline had exhibited st segment depression (3 to 4 mm) during nicardipine treatment, which was resolved following discontinuation of nicardipine therapy and application of nitroglycerin (nitropaste). hemodynamic evaluation revealed that iv nicardipine significantly decreased mean arterial pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and significantly increased cardiac index with no change in heart rate. these hemodynamic changes were similar in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients. adverse experiences reported with iv nicardipine included hypotension (4.5 percent), tachycardia (2.7 percent), and nausea/vomiting (4.5 percent). in the placebo group, the incidence of adverse experience was 6 percent, with an equal distribution of hypotension (2 percent), nausea/vomiting (2 percent), and headache (2 percent). no clinically important changes in laboratory variables related to iv nicardipine were reported. in conclusion, these findings indicate that nicardipine, a titratable intravenous calcium channel blocker, can rapidly and effectively control postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients.
speech, velopharyngeal function, and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery. articulation, voice, resonance, hearing sensitivity, and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after orthognathic surgery. thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery. errors on the sibilants /s/ and /z/ occurred most frequently, followed by those on /j,zh,ch/ and /sh/. errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components. after surgery, articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention. most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative, but, thereafter, a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months, errors occurred on /s/ and /z/. voice, resonance, velopharyngeal port area, and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery. this study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors.
doppler assessment of pulmonary artery pressure and extrapulmonary shunting in the acute phase of hyaline membrane disease. the natural history of pulmonary artery pressure and extrapulmonary shunting in acute hyaline membrane disease was studied by serial doppler echocardiography in 57 preterm infants, 38 with, and 19 without, hyaline membrane disease. pulmonary artery pressure was assessed non-invasively by its inverse relationship with the ratio of pulmonary artery doppler time to peak velocity: right ventricular ejection time. the mean ratio was significantly lower in the infants with hyaline membrane disease. the mean ratio for each infant with hyaline membrane disease varied widely and did not correlate with criteria of maturity or severity of disease. individual ratios correlated with arterial ph. between 60-80 hours after birth, 14 of 18 infants with hyaline membrane disease (78%) and one of 19 without (5%) had patent ductus arteriosus. left to right and bidirectional shunting at ductal and atrial level were common; pure right to left shunting was uncommon. the mean ratio seen with bidirectional shunting was significantly lower than that seen with left to right shunting. ratios and patterns of extra pulmonary shunting were similar when the fractional inspired oxygen (fio2) was greater than 0.9 compared with when it was less than 0.9. pulmonary artery pressure is high during the acute phase of hyaline membrane disease but varies widely among infants. a few infants have extrapulmonary right to left shunting, and these infants are difficult to detect clinically.
an epidemic outbreak of cryptosporidiosis: a prospective community study from guinea bissau. in the first year of a prospective community study of childhood diarrhea conducted in a semiurban area in the capital of guinea bissau, cryptosporidium sp. was found in 73 (6.0%) of 1216 episodes of diarrhea. the parasite was the second most prevalent intestinal parasite, and the only one significantly associated with diarrhea (or = 2.79, p = 0.0006). the seasonal distribution was striking, with a peak prevalence in the beginning of the rainy season (may 17.6%) when an epidemic outbreak of diarrhea started. the prevalence was highest in children younger than 18 months, an age at which prevalences of other intestinal parasites were low. this reverse age pattern may possibly be explained by the small infective dose needed to create severe infections, by air-borne transmission and by the development of protective immunity.
dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging: a new marker of triple-vessel disease. to investigate the significance and mechanism of dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging, we performed both dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging and dipyridamole radionuclide angiography on 83 patients with known angiograms. the dipyridamole/delayed ratio of the left ventricular dimension from the thallium-201 image was defined as the left ventricular dilatation ratio (lvdr). an lvdr greater than the mean + two standard deviations in patients without coronary artery disease was defined as abnormal. twenty-two of 83 patients showed an abnormal lvdr, and 18 of the 22 patients (82%) had triple-vessel disease. by defect and washout analysis, the sensitivity and specificity for correctly identifying the patients as having triple-vessel disease was 72% and 76%, respectively, whereas lvdr had a sensitivity of 72% and a specificity of 93%. when lvdr was used in combination with the defect and washout criteria, sensitivity increased to 84% without a loss of specificity. in those 22 patients with abnormal lvdrs, end-diastolic volume measured by radionuclide angiography did not change after dipyridamole infusion. dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging reflected relative subendocardial hypoperfusion induced by dipyridamole rather than actual chamber enlargement. the lvdr was moderately sensitive and highly specific for triple-vessel disease and provided complementary information to dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging.
synthesis of 70k stress protein by human leukocytes: effect of exercise in the heat. to determine whether reinduction of 70,000-da (70k) stress protein synthesis could be used as an assay for thermal history and/or cellular levels of 70k stress protein in hyperthermic humans, leukocytes were obtained before and after 2 h of exercise and then incubated at 37 or 41 degrees c. five healthy males completed 2 h of treadmill exercise consisting of running at 4-6 km/h for 30-45 min followed by 75-90 min of walking up a 2-10% grade. this exercise bout was performed by two subjects in hot (46 degrees c, 15% relative humidity) and by five subjects in cooler (30 degrees c, 40% relative humidity) environmental conditions. exercise resulting in rectal temperature (tre) less than 40 degrees c did not alter the amount of 70k stress protein synthesized by leukocytes incubated at 41 degrees c. in contrast, exercise resulting in tre greater than 40 degrees c reduced the amount of 70k stress protein synthesized by leukocytes incubated at 41 degrees c. a protein immunoblot, probed with an antibody specific for the inducible 72k stress protein, showed that the reduction of 35s-labeled 70k stress protein in these postexercise leukocyte samples occurred without marked elevations of this protein. in vitro incubation of human leukocytes at 40 degrees c for 15-120 min reduced, in a time-dependent manner, the amount of 70k stress protein synthesized during a subsequent 41 degrees c heat stress. this reduction of 70k stress protein synthesis in 41 degrees c-treated leukocytes was abolished when cycloheximide was present during the 40 degrees c preincubation.
mechanisms of edema formation in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. the contribution of inflammatory cells. most of the central nervous system (cns) endothelium regulates the passage of solutes and functions as a blood-brain barrier (bbb). during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae), an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the cns, loss of bbb function occurs. the authors have previously shown an increase in endothelial transcytotic activity associated with decreased mitochondrial content as evidence of bbb dysfunction in eae. these changes occurred in the capillary bed and correlated with cns edema and clinical signs. in the present report, a fixation procedure before infusion of the intravascular tracer horseradish peroxidase (hrp) in rats at the height of clinical eae has been used. in these animals, tracer leakage was only noted in inflamed venules with diameters of 12 to 19 mu. the authors detected several mechanisms of passive leakage: 1) increased junctional permeability; 2) increased interendothelial space; 3) leakage alongside migrating inflammatory cells. some small capillaries showed necrotic changes with minimal tracer leakage. this report demonstrates that bbb disruption also occurs via nonendocytic mechanisms that may be induced by inflammatory cells.
percutaneous popliteal approach for angioplasty of superficial femoral artery occlusions. angioplasty using the percutaneous popliteal approach was utilized in 50 patients (pts) to recanalize 59 occluded superficial femoral arteries which had been unsuccessfully canalized by using the antegrade approach because of either a flush origin occlusion or inability to maintain the guide wire in the true lumen. all pts had claudication; 8 had rest pain; 3 had non-healing ulcers. the laser probe was used in 17 cases and the rotablator in 3 cases. occlusion length varied between 1 and 40 cm: 7 lesions were less than 10 cm (group 1); 9 were between 10 and 20 cm (group 2); and 43 were greater than 20 cm (group 3). an angiographic success was obtained in 48/59 lesions (81%): 14/16 (87%) in groups 1 and 2 and 34/43 (79%) in group 3. three pts needed complementary common femoral endarterectomy and one required percutaneous aspiration of a thromboembolus. complications included: arterial perforation and/or dissection (without clinical sequelae) in 11 and a popliteal hematoma in 1 pt. one patient with a severely ischemic leg underwent successful emergency vascular surgery, while another limb salvage patient required below-knee amputation. there was no worsening of limb ischemia from any popliteal approach attempt. at discharge, 39 patients (78%) whose outcome would have been unsuccessful with the traditional antegrade approach were clinically improved after utilizing the popliteal approach to achieve a successful angioplasty procedure.
a population-based study of functional status and social support networks of elderly patients newly diagnosed with cancer. we assessed the functional status and social support networks of 799 men and women aged 65 years or older newly diagnosed with cancer and living in six new mexico counties. functional limitations included depending on others for transportation (33%) and mental incompetence or poor recent memory (42%). the percentage of patients with functional limitation increased sharply with increasing age. in a substantial number of patients there was also evidence for poor social support networks; 26.5% of subjects lived alone and 38.9% had no children living in the vicinity. in a multiple logistic regression analysis, the predictors of having a poor social support network included non-hispanic white ethnicity, advanced age, low income, and being a recent migrant to the area. subjects with functional limitations were more likely to have poor social support networks than subjects without such limitations. the deleterious combination of impaired functional status and a limited social support network may explain why elderly cancer patients are at increased risk for not receiving appropriate therapy. given the potential complexities involving the evaluation and appropriate treatment of cancer, care must be taken to adequately assess functional status and support mechanisms of older patients, and to provide adequate support to ensure compliance with treatment.
late results with carpentier-edwards porcine bioprosthesis. from 1977 to 1984, 429 patients underwent aortic valve replacement (avr), and 339 underwent mitral valve replacement (mvr) with a carpentier-edwards bioprosthesis. early mortality for avr was 4.6% (isolated avr, 1.9%) and for mvr was 5.3% (isolated mvr, 4.1%). follow-up was 99.3% complete at a mean of 5.9 years. actuarial event-free rates at 10 years for avr and mvr were, respectively, 1) for structural valve deterioration, 91.4 +/- 3.2% versus 75.1 +/- 4.0% (p less than 0.01); 2) for nonstructural dysfunction, 100% versus 97.8 +/- 1.6% (p = ns); 3) for thromboembolism, 90.6 +/- 2.3% versus 87.3 +/- 2.6% (p = ns); 4) for anticoagulant-related bleeding, 95.3 +/- 1.1% versus 88.6 +/- 2.4% (p = 0.05); 5) for endocarditis, 87.8 +/- 5.7% versus 90.6 +/- 2.4% (p = ns); 6) for reoperation, 91.0 +/- 2.5% versus 74.4 +/- 3.7% (p less than 0.01); 7) for valve-related mortality, 76.1 +/- 6.9% versus 71.4 +/- 5.2% (p = 0.01); 8) for permanent physical impairment, 85.0 +/- 3.0% versus 71.5 +/- 3.6% (p less than 0.01); and 9) for combined operative mortality, valve-related mortality, and reoperation, 68.7 +/- 6.4% versus 51.5 +/- 4.9% (p = 0.01). no structural valve dysfunction was observed in any avr patient whose valve was inserted after age 70. age at operation was the only factor that predicted structural valve deterioration (p less than 0.01).
steroid hormone abnormalities in women with severe idiopathic constipation. patients with severe idiopathic constipation are almost exclusively women of reproductive age. to investigate the possibility of a sex hormone abnormality in this condition, we have compared a range of sex hormones during the follicular and luteal phases of the menstrual cycle in 23 healthy women (mean age 33 years) with those in 26 patients with severe idiopathic constipation (mean age 32 years, spontaneous bowel frequency less than one per week). in the patients there was a reduction in the follicular phase of progesterone (4.5 v 4 nmol/l, p = 0.006, median value, controls v patients), 17 hydroxyprogesterone (9.7 v 5.8 nmol/l, p = 0.01), cortisol (387 v 245 nmol/l, p = 0.008), testosterone (2.3 v 1.8 nmol/l, p less than 0.001), androstenedione (10.3 v 8.4 nmol/l, p = 0.02), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (5.1 v 3.0 mumol/l, p = 0.03). in the luteal phase there was a reduction of oestradiol (483 v 350 pmol/l, p = 0.015), cortisol (322 v 242 nmol/l, p = 0.047), and testosterone (2.4 v 1.7 nmol/l, p = 0.003). the concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin, prolactin, luteinising hormone, and follicle stimulating hormone were not significantly different in either phase of the cycle. women with severe idiopathic constipation have a consistent reduction in steroid hormones.
hepatitis b vaccination and interleukin 2 receptor expression in chronic renal failure. only 50 to 60% of dialysis patients develop anti-hbs antibodies following hepatitis b vaccination. the nonresponder state correlates with impaired monocyte function, decreased interleukin-2 (il-2) production of t cells, and an upregulation of the il-2 receptor system. in the present study we examined anti-hbs production after hepatitis b vaccination and the in vitro expression of il-2 receptors in nondialyzed patients with various degrees of chronic renal failure. forty-four patients with impaired renal function were immunized with 2 micrograms recombinant hepatitis b vaccine and boostered after one and six months. prior to the first injection il-2 receptor expression of activated t cells was studied by an in vitro proliferation assay. sixty-four healthy subjects served as controls. after completion of the third vaccination 55.0% of the patients acquired antibody titers greater than 10 u/liter. the seroconversion rate did not differ between patients with lower (less than 3.5 mg/dl) and higher (greater than 3.5 mg/dl) creatinine levels. in nonresponders il-2 receptor expression (stimulation index, si = 10.09 +/- 1.80) was elevated compared to healthy controls (si = 4.62 +/- 0.35, p less than 0.002) or patients who responded with a high antibody titer (greater than 50 u/liter, si = 3.12 +/- 0.43, p less than 0.001). patients who produced low antibody titers (less than 50 u/liter) also presented with enhanced il-2 receptor expression. these data show that an impaired antibody production following hepatitis b vaccination and an enhanced il-2 receptor expression of t cells may already be present in early stages of chronic renal failure.
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy: atypical presentations. severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death. acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy. this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum. moreover, classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
are three substages of clinical b prostate carcinoma useful in predicting disease-free survival? the b1 nodule, a 1.5 cm area of induration surrounded on at least two sides by prostatic tissue of normal consistency, was defined by jewett in 1968 as the stage of prostatic cancer best suited for treatment and cure by radical prostatectomy (rp). the area of prostatic induration suitable for rp was subsequently extended to less than one lobe (stage b1); this extension of induration was supported by the study of walsh and jewett in 1980 showing a 51 percent survival free-of-disease at fifteen-year follow-up. subsequently, clinical staging systems evolved which substaged clinical b into three categories of induration: b1n = less than 1.5 cm nodule, b1 = greater than 1.5 cm but less than one lobe, and b2 = one lobe or both lobes. to determine if digital assessment of these progressively greater degrees of induration would translate into different intervals to first progression, whether local or distant, we reviewed prostate diagrams and descriptions of all stage b patients treated by iodine-125 interstitial implant and external beam radiation therapy between 1974 and 1985 at our institution. forty-six patients had b1 nodules, 78 patients b1 (less than one lobe), and 52 patients b2 (one lobe or greater). mean follow-up was fifty-five months. we found b1n, which was also associated with well-differentiated grade and a normal acid phosphatase, to have the longest interval to progression.
a successful treatment of an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula by percutaneous embolization. a 37-year-old woman patient, known to have poorly controlled arterial hypertension that was diagnosed following a cerebrovascular accident at the age of 15 years, was referred to our outpatient clinic for investigation in 1987. an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed by selective renal angiography. embolization of the fistula was performed using four 15-mm/5-cm coils, which induced thrombosis and obstructed the fistula. the vascularization of the affected kidney improved immediately. during the following 4 months, the antihypertensive treatment was stopped gradually, and the patient remained normotensive. this is an unusual case of a large intrarenal arteriovenous fistula, whose etiology was not clear, that was successfully treated by percutaneous embolization.
abdominal wall pain: an alternative diagnosis. the cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms. some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious, e.g. hernias, but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes. this review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which, although common, may be easily overlooked.
interferon alfa therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. effects on hepatitis b virus dna in the liver. pretrial and posttrial liver biopsy samples from 124 adult patients who participated in two randomized, controlled trials of interferon alfa therapy for chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection were analyzed to determine the effects of interferon on the replication of hbv in the liver. replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the pretrial biopsy samples from all and posttrial biopsy samples from 74% treated patients and 86% controls. replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the posttrial biopsy samples from all patients who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen and hbv dna in the serum, in 77% treated patients and 80% controls who cleared hbv dna in the serum but who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen, but in only 19% treated patients and 40% controls who cleared hbv dna as well as hepatitis b e antigen in the serum. serum alanine aminotransferase levels were significantly lower in patients whose posttrial biopsies did not contain replicative forms of hbv dna. in summary, we demonstrated that in most patients with chronic hbv infection treated with interferon alfa, serological response was associated with the disappearance of replicative forms of hbv dna in the liver.
intravenous but not intracolonic epidermal growth factor maintains colonocyte proliferation in defunctioned rat colorectum. the role of epidermal growth factor in the proliferation of normal and premalignant colonocytes in vivo is not fully understood. in particular, the relative importance of its possible systemic and intraluminal routes of action has not been fully clarified. rats with surgically defunctioned distal colorectums were used, and mini osmotic pumps were implanted to study the effects of intraluminal and iv administration of epidermal growth factor on colonocyte proliferation. within 2 weeks of bypass, colonocyte proliferation in defunctioned colorectum has decreased to about one third the rate in normal colorectum or in colorectum proximal to the defunctioning colostomy. intraluminal epidermal growth factor, infused from the time of operation did not reverse this hypoplasia, whereas iv epidermal growth factor maintained colonocyte proliferation at approximately the normal rate in bypassed colorectum. this model is suitable for testing other putative colonic mitogens for possible intraluminal and systemic effects.
management of recurrent malignant pleural effusion in the united kingdom: survey of clinical practice. malignant pleural effusions are often symptomatic and tend to recur after simple aspiration. pleurodesis may prevent recurrence of the effusion; many agents and techniques have been described. a questionnaire was sent to 448 clinicians in the united kingdom to determine how pleurodesis is performed in practice. there was a 56% overall response, with replies from 101 respiratory physicians, 88 general physicians, 29 thoracic surgeons, and 35 general surgeons. general surgeons saw few cases of malignant pleural effusion and rarely performed pleurodesis. a patient with recurrent malignant pleural effusion would usually be managed with pleurodesis by 76 (76%) respiratory physicians, 26 (30%) general physicians, and 23 (81%) thoracic surgeons; a further 29 (33%) general physicians would refer such patients to another specialist. most medical pleurodesis were performed by junior staff, whereas consultant thoracic surgeons were more likely to be concerned with the procedure. all the thoracic surgeons used an intercostal tube drain, usually with suction. an intercostal tube drain was used routinely by only 54 (54%) of the respiratory physicians and 28 (32%) general physicians. thoracic surgeons preferred talc for pleurodesis whereas physicians most commonly used tetracycline. the variety of methods in use supports the need for randomised, controlled studies to determine the most effective technique of pleurodesis.
substance-p is present in a subset of thyrotrophs in the human pituitary. substance-p immunoreactivity and tachykinin-like peptides are present in the pituitary gland of several mammalian species. in humans, however, the biochemical nature and cellular localization of pituitary substance-p has not been defined. we report here that substance-p-immunoreactive material is present in low concentrations in both the anterior and posterior lobes of the human pituitary gland. gel chromatography and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography indicate that the majority of the substance-p immunoreactivity in human pituitaries elutes as authentic substance-p and its oxidized derivative. immunohistochemical studies showed substance-p-immunoreactive fibers and terminals in the posterior pituitary gland and occasional substance-p-immunoreactive cell bodies in the anterior lobe. the substance-p-immunoreactive cells were found to colocalize with a small subpopulation of tsh beta-immunoreactive cells (thyrotrophs). substance-p immunoreactivity was also found in a pituitary microadenoma that contained numerous tsh beta-immunoreactive cells. these studies indicate that substance-p is present in the human pituitary gland, and they suggest a relationship between substance-p and thyroid function.
noninvasive estimation of left atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation by doppler echocardiography. a completely noninvasive method for estimating left atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation has been devised with the use of continuous-wave doppler echocardiography and brachial sphygmomanometry. of 46 patients studied with mitral regurgitation, 35 (76%) had jets with distinct doppler spectral envelopes recorded. the peak ventriculoatrial gradient was obtained by measuring peak mitral regurgitant velocity in systole and using the modified bernoulli equation. this gradient was then subtracted from peak brachial systolic blood pressure, an estimate of left ventricular systolic pressure, to yield left atrial pressure (left atrial pressure = systolic blood pressure - mitral regurgitant pressure gradient). noninvasive estimates of left atrial pressure from 35 patients were plotted against simultaneous recordings of mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure resulting in the correlation y = 0.88x + 3.3, r = 0.88, standard error of estimate = +/- 4 mm hg (p less than 0.001). therefore, continuous-wave doppler echocardiography and sphygmomanometry may be used in selected patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation for noninvasive estimation of left atrial pressure.
breast cancer screening: who should be included? the recommendations of the u.s. preventive services task force are reviewed in regard to screening for breast cancer. in contradistinction to those issued by some other national organizations, screening for breast cancer using mammography at ages 40-49 is not recommended. it is concluded that the scientific evidence is insufficient at present to recommend mammography screening for women aged 40-49. the recommendations of the task force are: all women over age 40 should receive an annual breast examination; all women should have mammography every one or two years beginning at age 50 and concluding at approximately age 75 unless disease has been detected; and it may be prudent to begin mammography at an earlier age for women at high risk of breast cancer. these recommendations are appropriate in light of the available evidence; though at present there is no evidence that clinical examination of the breasts at any age reduces breast cancer mortality; the upper age beyond which breast cancer screening no longer has a significant effect in reducing breast cancer mortality is unknown; and there is no evidence that women at high risk for breast cancer benefit to a different degree from screening than women not at high risk.
ichthyosis, mental retardation, and asymptomatic spasticity. a new neurocutaneous syndrome with normal fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase activity. a number of inherited disorders of cornification have been related to abnormal lipid metabolism. in the recessively inherited sjogren-larsson syndrome, defined by the triad of ichthyosis, mental retardation, and spasticity, fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase deficiency has recently been reported. these patients accumulate fatty alcohol in the plasma and cultured fibroblasts. a 19-year-old woman with ichthyosis, mental retardation, and mild spasticity is described in whom fatty alcohol metabolism was normal, as determined by plasma octadecanol level and fibroblast fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase activity. ultrastructural studies on skin from the patient revealed morphologically abnormal epidermal lamellar bodies, not unlike those seen in neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis. we postulate that this patient has a novel neurocutaneous syndrome that may be secondary to abnormal lipid metabolism.
clinical experience with biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. biliary lithotripsy is a new and important development in the nonsurgical management of gallbladder, cystic duct, and bile duct stones. most patients do not require general or epidural anesthesia with newer second-generation machines. patient selection and the use of adjuvant therapy to aid fragment clearance are important issues that are discussed. results from different centers are compared but few long-term results are yet available, i.e., longer than 18 months.
internal mammary artery and saphenous vein graft patency. effects of aspirin. as part of two department of veterans affairs cooperative trials, we obtained angiographic patency data for internal mammary artery (ima) and saphenous vein grafts to the left anterior descending (lad) coronary artery at 1 year after coronary artery bypass surgery. patients received either aspirin 325 mg q.d., aspirin 325 mg t.i.d., aspirin 325 mg and dipyridamole 75 mg t.i.d., or placebo. aspirin was initiated either 12 hours before or 6 hours after operation. patients were stratified preoperatively for extent of disease and randomized to the therapies outlined above. there was no randomization to ima versus saphenous vein grafts to the lad. when the patients taking placebo were compared with those taking aspirin, there were no differences in the ima (100.0% versus 92.1%, p = 0.385) or vein graft (88.8% versus 90.4%, p = 0.675) patency rates. the patency rate, irrespective of treatment, for all ima grafts was 92.8% (220 of 237) versus 90.1% (345 of 383) for all vein grafts to the lad (p = 0.309). thus, both the ima and vein grafts had excellent patency rates at 1 year. aspirin did not alter this at 1 year, and there were no differences between ima and vein graft patency to the lad.
death at cardiac catheterization: coronary artery embolization of calcium debris from ionescu-shiley bioprosthesis. the case described is a death due to embolization of calcium debris from a bioprosthesis, dislodged at cardiac catheterization. as more bioprosthetic valves are implanted, and more of them fail long-term with calcification, such complications of the invasive study of these valves may be expected.
insulinomas: localization with selective intraarterial injection of calcium. to facilitate the noninvasive preoperative localization of islet cell tumors less than 15 mm in diameter, the authors examined the use of calcium as an insulin secretagogue in an arterial stimulation venous sampling (asvs) technique. in four patients with episodic hypoglycemia, calcium gluconate (0.01-0.025 meq ca2+/kg) was injected directly into branches of the celiac plexus (gastroduodenal, splenic, and hepatic arteries) and the superior mesenteric artery. in all patients, serum levels of insulin rose abruptly in blood samples taken from the right hepatic vein 30 and 60 seconds after the infusion of calcium into the artery supplying the tumor; injection into an artery not supplying the tumor did not result in a similar rise. accurate localization of the insulinomas was verified at surgery in three patients. in the fourth patient, who did not undergo surgery, arteriographic results were positive for insulinoma at the predicted site. on the basis of these results, the authors believe noninvasive asvs may replace invasive portal venous sampling as the most effective method for the localization of occult insulinomas.
eeg correlation of improvement in hemolytic-uremic syndrome after plasma infusion. we report a previously undescribed electroencephalographic pattern of epochs of diffuse delta background (85-240 sec) alternating with epochs of classic "burst suppression" (90-270 sec) in a 13-month-old girl with hemolytic-uremic syndrome. a dramatic electroencephalographic improvement was evident on continuous monitoring of cerebral function 3 hours after initiating fresh frozen plasma infusion, well before any clinical improvement was apparent. this patient, in addition to the unusual electroencephalographic findings, illustrates the role of continuous electrophysiologic monitoring of cerebral function and supports the use of fresh frozen plasma in hemolytic-uremic syndrome.
cluster headache: the effect of low oxygen saturation the present study concerns the possible relationship between hypoxia and the generation of cluster headache attacks. fifteen controls and 25 cluster headache patients were studied. the patients were allocated into two groups according to cluster headache stage, i.e. cluster or remission period. during the tests, all the subjects were asked to inhale 12% oxygen (88% n2) for 30 min, and the decreasing oxygen saturation (sao2%) was monitored. patients in the remission period showed nearly the same decrement of sao2% as controls. at the end of the test, patients in the bout showed significantly less reduction of sao2% than the controls. in 5 patients, the test was carried out both in and outside the cluster periods. the tendency to less decrement in oxygen saturation in the cluster phase was as marked with this comparison, but the difference between the groups was not significant, probably partly due to the low number of tests carried out. only one patient got a typical attack. it seems that hypoxia of this magnitude per se is not the cause of attacks. the different pattern with respect to sao2% following 12% o2 inhalation in cluster headache may be due to an abnormality in central regulation and/or chemoreceptor sensitivity.
quality-of-life-adjusted evaluation of adjuvant therapies for operable breast cancer. the international breast cancer study group objective: to evaluate a single cycle of adjuvant chemotherapy compared with longer duration chemotherapy for premenopausal women or chemoendocrine therapy for postmenopausal women with operable breast cancer using a quality-of-life-oriented end point, q-twist (quality-adjusted analysis of twist: time without symptoms and toxicity). design: multicenter randomized clinical trial--international breast cancer study group (ibcsg: formerly ludwig group) trial v. setting: ibcsg participating centers in sweden, switzerland, australia, yugoslavia, spain, new zealand, italy, germany, and south africa. patients: data were available for 1229 eligible patients with node-positive breast cancer who were randomized to receive one of three adjuvant treatments after at least a total mastectomy and axillary clearance. interventions: patients received either a single cycle of perioperative chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil, and leucovorin; or six cycles (6 months) of a conventionally timed chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil, and prednisone for premenopausal women or this combination plus tamoxifen for postmenopausal women; or both perioperative and conventionally timed chemotherapy for a 7-month course of adjuvant therapy. results: at 5 years of median follow-up, patients who received the longer duration therapies had an improved 5-year disease-free survival percentage (53% compared with 36%; p less than 0.001) and 5-year overall survival percentage (73% compared with 63%; p = 0.001) compared with those who received the single perioperative cycle alone. by 3.5 years, the greater burden of toxic effects associated with the longer duration treatments was balanced by their superior control of disease. within 5 years of follow-up, even after subtracting time with adjuvant treatment toxicity, patients gained an average of 2.2 months of q-twist if treated with the longer duration therapies compared with the single cycle (p = 0.03). the gain for premenopausal patients was 2.8 months (p = 0.05), whereas the gain for postmenopausal women was 1.5 months (p greater than 0.2). conclusions: six or seven months of adjuvant chemotherapy or chemoendocrine therapy improve both the quantity and quality of life for patients with node-positive breast cancer compared with a single short course of perioperative combination chemotherapy.
plasma dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate in patients undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography [corrected and republished with original paging, article originally printed in j am coll cardiol 1990 oct;16(4):862-70] serum levels of dhea sulfate are inversely associated with cardiovascular death in men, and urinary dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) levels are inversely associated with clinical manifestations of coronary artery disease. these observations may be related to the antiproliferative effects of dhea, resulting in inhibition of atherosclerotic intimal hyperplasia. to examine the relation between these steroids and a direct measure of coronary atherosclerosis, plasma dhea and dhea sulfate levels were determined in 206 middle-aged patients (103 men, 103 women) undergoing elective coronary angiography. plasma dhea sulfate levels were lower in men with at least one stenosis greater than or equal to 50% compared with those without any stenosis greater than or equal to 50% (4.9 +/- 2.7 versus 6.1 +/- 3.5 nmol/ml, p = 0.05). levels of dhea sulfate were also inversely related to the number of diseased coronary vessels (r = -0.20, p = 0.05) and a continuous measure of the extent of coronary atherosclerosis (r = -0.25, p = 0.01) in men. the association between dhea sulfate levels and extent of coronary artery disease was independent of age and other conventional risk factors for coronary disease. in women, there was no association between plasma dhea or dhea sulfate levels and coronary disease. these data demonstrate a consistent, independent, inverse, dose-response relation between plasma dhea sulfate levels and angiographically defined coronary atherosclerosis in men. plasma dhea sulfate may be another important and potentially modifiable risk factor for the development and progression of coronary atherosclerosis.
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome. we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage. each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia. none had hemimegalencephaly. we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients.
catecholaminergic systems in the medulla oblongata in parkinsonian syndromes: a quantitative immunohistochemical study in parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and striatonigral degeneration. we investigated tyrosine-hydroxylase (th)-immunoreactive neurons in the medulla oblongata corresponding to the a1 and a2 cell groups in autopsy tissue of patients with parkinson's disease (pd) (n = 3), progressive supranuclear palsy (psp) (n = 3), striatonigral degeneration (snd) (n = 2), and in controls (n = 4). the estimated total number of th-positive neurons in the a1 and the a2 regions was normal in pd and psp patients. the sparing of medullary catecholaminergic cells in pd and psp may be related to their minor degree of melanization and the possibility that intermediate compounds associated with the oxidative catabolism of norepinephrine and epinephrine may be less cytotoxic than those generated by degradation of dopamine. patients with snd showed a marked loss of th-immunoreactive cells in the a1 and the a2 groups, which may contribute to the impairment of vasomotor control characteristic of the disease.
percutaneous urinary diversion in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer. twenty-two patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer underwent percutaneous urinary diversion; at the time, all but one had metastatic disease. eleven patients received postnephrostomy therapy. the median survival time for all the patients was one hundred nineteen days. overall, 41 percent of the patients' remaining lifetime was spent in the hospital. six never left the hospital and 10 required rehospitalization; the remaining 6 patients were never rehospitalized. the median survival time for this group of patients was shorter than the expected survival of similar patients without ureteral obstruction. it appears that percutaneous urinary diversion does not improve the quality of life of these patients.
standards for analysis of ventricular late potentials using high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography: a statement by a task force committee of the european society of cardiology, the american heart association, and the american college of cardiology. sufficient data are available to recommend the use of the high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiogram in patients recovering from myocardial infarction without bundle branch block to help determine their risk for developing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. however, no data are available about the extent to which pharmacological or nonpharmacological interventions in patients with late potentials have an impact on the incidence of sudden cardiac death. therefore, controlled, prospective studies are required before this issue can be resolved. as refinements in techniques evolve, it is anticipated that the clinical value of high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography will continue to increase.
hemorrhoids. a practical approach to an aggravating problem. although hemorrhoids are considered a minor medical problem, they may cause considerable discomfort and anxiety. fortunately, treatment is often simple and surgery is rarely necessary. in this practical article, dr cocchiara describes internal and external hemorrhoids, a classification system, and treatment choices based on the degree of involvement.
clinical and hemodynamic correlates of sympathetic nerve activity in normal humans and patients with heart failure: evidence from direct microneurographic recordings. to characterize the neural excitatory state of heart failure, simultaneous measurements of efferent sympathetic nerve activity to muscle (by microneurography) and rest hemodynamics were obtained in 10 normal subjects (age 25 +/- 2 years, mean +/- sem) and 29 patients with heart failure (age 49 +/- 2 years; new york heart association functional class ii to iv; left ventricular ejection fraction 21 +/- 1%; cardiac index = 2.16 +/- 0.13 liters/min per m2; pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 23 +/- 2 mm hg). sympathetic nerve activity was significantly higher in the patients with heart failure (54.7 +/- 4.5 bursts/min) than in normal subjects (16.7 +/- 2.2 bursts/min, p less than 0.001). multiple linear regression analyses indicated that sympathetic activity in these human subjects was most strongly and inversely correlated with left ventricular stroke work index (r = -0.86, p less than 0.0001) and stroke volume index (r = -0.85, p less than 0.0001). there was a strong positive correlation between sympathetic nerve activity and pulmonary artery diastolic (r = 0.82, p less than 0.0001) and mean (r = 0.81, p less than 0.0001) pressures. similar correlations were seen when patients with heart failure were analyzed separately. there was no significant correlation between sympathetic nerve activity and mean arterial pressure, left ventricular ejection fraction (by radionuclide ventriculography), cardiac chamber size (by echocardiography) or arterial oxygen tension in the patients with heart failure. direct measurements of sympathetic nerve activity correlated closely with plasma norepinephrine (r = 0.72, p less than 0.0001) in patients with heart failure. thus, sympathetic nerve activity at rest parallels impairment of cardiac performance in patients with heart failure.
obstructive sleep apnoea in children undergoing routine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. sleep screening was used to discover the incidence of sleep apnoea in 50 children undergoing routine adenotonsillectomy for recurrent upper respiratory tract infections, randomly selected from the waiting list. preoperative assessment included a detailed parental history, physical examination, and lateral cephalometry, in order to identify factors that might alert the clinician to a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnoea. there were 2 equal groups of snorers and non-snorers (grade 0); 1 patient was found to have the sleep apnoea syndrome (iv), 9 patients had obstructive snoring with apnoeic episodes (iii), 3 patients had snoring with a disrupted sleep pattern (ii), and 12 patients snored with no disruption of sleep (i). in identifying patients with apnoea, a history of snoring was unhelpful, whereas one of breathing irregularities was found to be highly specific. nasal obstruction correlated poorly; however, there was a significant relationship between tonsillar position and size and sleep grade (chi-squared p less than 0.01). stepwise regression analysis showed a large contribution to the grading was made by the size of the oropharyngeal airway measured by lateral cephalometry. the children in grade ii-iv were re-studied 3 months post-operatively and all reverted to grades 0 or i.
fulminating multiple sclerosis-like leukoencephalopathy revealing human immunodeficiency virus infection. a 66-year-old french homosexual man and a 42-year-old brazilian man with no known risk factors for hiv infection developed headaches, asthenia, and neurologic episodes of abrupt onset. ct showed multiple hypodense, nonenhancing lesions. serology for hiv was positive. they died respectively 2 months and 1 month after onset of the illnesses. autopsy in both cases showed multiple, well-demarcated, demyelinating foci in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres, brainstem, and cerebellum with histologic features characteristic of recent plaques of multiple sclerosis. there were no multinucleated giant cells or microglial nodules. immunostaining for hiv was negative. although a random coincidence of ms and hiv infection cannot be ruled out, the close temporal relationship between the 2 disorders suggests a possible etiologic association.
clinical outcome of emergency repeat coronary artery bypass surgery. to determine the clinical outcome of patients requiring emergency repeat coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) procedures, we reviewed 23 such procedures performed for ongoing myocardial ischemia refractory to medical management. the operative mortality was 17%. on follow-up, an average of 24.9 months after emergency reoperation, 14 of the 19 survivors (74%) had recurrent angina. as compared to a randomly selected group of 25 patients who underwent elective repeat cabg procedures during the same time period, the incidence of late cardiac events was significantly higher (79% in the emergency group, 30% in the elective surgery group) and fewer patients had received internal mammary artery (ima) grafts (9% vs 52%). emergency repeat cabg operations have considerable operative mortality and poor postoperative functional results with the majority of survivors developing recurrent ischemic syndromes within a short period of time.
cholinergic deficiency and frontal dysfunction in parkinson's disease. to investigate the influence of central cholinergic deficit on cognitive function in parkinson's disease (pd), we compared the neuropsychological performance of a group of 20 patients who were treated with anticholinergic drugs (mean daily dose, 10.2 mg) with that of a group of 20 patients who received no anticholinergics. the two groups were matched for all the variables of parkinsonism and levodopa therapy. at the dose used, there was no significant difference between the two groups of patients for intellectual, visuospatial, instrumental, and memory function. in contrast, in the group that received anticholinergics severe impairment was observed on tests believed to assess frontal lobe function. these results suggest that the lesion of the ascending cholinergic neurons, which has been demonstrated post mortem in pd, may play a role in the subcorticofrontal behavioral impairment of this disease.
orbital inflammatory disease associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. orbital inflammatory disease in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus is rare and presents a diagnostic dilemma as well as a therapeutic challenge. ours appears to be the sixth such case reported in the literature.
differential effects of the stimulation of complement receptors cr1 (cd35) and cr2 (cd21) on cell proliferation and intracellular ca2+ mobilization of chronic lymphocytic leukemia b cells. the regulatory role of cr1 and cr2 on b cell activation and proliferation has been investigated by using b cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. the chronic lymphocytic leukemia b cells are clonal expansions of b lymphocytes frozen at specific stages of activation. they displayed two patterns of response upon surface ig (sig) cross-linking in terms of in vitro proliferation and intracellular free ca2+ mobilization: cells from patient f (first pattern) proliferated in the presence of mitogenic anti-mu antibodies, whereas cells from patient a (second pattern) did not respond to sig cross-linking but proliferated in the presence of low m.w. b cell growth factor and il-2. coculture of a or f cells with c3b-bearing srbc led to a two- to four-fold increase in thymidine incorporation in cultures containing low m.w. b cell growth factor but not in cultures containing ril-2. this enhanced proliferation was inhibited by f(ab')2 polyclonal rabbit antihuman cr1 antibodies. only cells which proliferated in the presence of anti-mu (cells f) responded to cross-linking of sig with a rise in intracellular ca2+. no increase in calcium mobilization was observed after co-cross-linking of cr1 and sig on a and f cells with mab or polyclonal anti-cr1 antibodies. co-cross-linking of cr2 with sig only led to an enhanced intracellular ca2+ rise in f cells but not in a cells. the lack of cr2-mediated synergy in ca2+ rise in a cells indicates that the synergy occurs only if there is a proper coupling of sig to phospholipase c. cr1-induced proliferation of b cells does not involve the signaling pathways of sig. these results provide additional evidences for the role of c3 fragments in modulation of human b cell activation.
pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy: an overview. pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (pppd) was reintroduced 12 years ago. since that time, over 400 patients have undergone pppd with approximately 41 per cent having chronic pancreatitis and 54 per cent having pancreatic and other periampullary malignancies. reported 5-year survivals in this latter group have been comparable to those achieved by the classic whipple procedure. the postoperative mortality rate in 339 reported patients has been 3.8 per cent. postoperative morbidity, including delayed gastric emptying, has been similar to that of the classic whipple operation. however, pppd has been associated with fewer late problems with dumping, diarrhoea, delayed gastric emptying (8.6 per cent), and marginal ulceration (3.6 per cent). moreover, most patients undergoing pppd have been able to return to their preoperative and preillness weight. the additional advantage of decreased operative time makes pppd an attractive alternative to the classic pancreatoduodenectomy.
gastric outlet obstruction caused by traumatic pseudoaneurysm of superior mesenteric artery. traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the superior mesenteric artery (sma) are extremely rare. we describe two cases of posttraumatic proximal sma pseudoaneurysms with symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction. repair was accomplished by aorta-sma bypass with saphenous vein. injuries to the proximal sma are easily missed at laparotomy, especially if intestinal ischemia or hematomas are absent. recognition and repair are stressed to avoid the complications associated with pseudoaneurysm formation.
acute hemodynamic effects of captopril in children with a congestive or restrictive cardiomyopathy the acute hemodynamic effects of captopril were evaluated at cardiac catheterization in 16 children (age, 0.3-18 years) with cardiomyopathy. twelve children had congestive cardiomyopathy, whereas four had restrictive cardiomyopathy. hemodynamic measurements were obtained 30 and 60 minutes after the oral administration of captopril (0.5 mg/kg). blood pressures were measured in the aorta, pulmonary artery, right atrium, and pulmonary capillary wedge position; cardiac outputs were measured by the thermodilution technique. hemodynamic data could not be obtained after the administration of captopril in one child with congestive cardiomyopathy because of an immediate, severe hypotensive response. in 11 of 12 children with congestive cardiomyopathy, cardiac index increased by 22%, from 2.3 to 2.8 l/min/m2 (p less than 0.05), and stroke volume increased by 22%, from 23 to 28 ml/m2 (p less than 0.05). systemic vascular resistance decreased from 32 to 21 units.m2 (p less than 0.01), but the mean aortic pressure did not change significantly. in contrast, four children with restrictive cardiomyopathy had no change in cardiac output after captopril, but there was a trend toward significant arterial hypotension (mean aortic pressure decreased from 78 to 59 mm hg). thus, captopril acutely reduced systemic vascular resistance and increased both cardiac output and stroke volume in children with congestive cardiomyopathy. in children with restrictive cardiomyopathy, however, captopril did not affect cardiac output, but it did decrease aortic pressure. these data indicate that captopril may benefit children with a congestive cardiomyopathy but that captopril probably should not be used in children with restrictive disease.
basal cell carcinoma arising in pemphigus vulgaris of the lower eyelid. a 59-year-old woman on continuous treatment with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs for pemphigus vulgaris of 14 year's duration presented with an enlarging nodular lesion on the right lower eyelid. the neoplasm, diagnosed as basal cell carcinoma, was excised conserving the lid margin, and eyelid reconstruction was done with a rotated cheek flap. wound healing proceeded without complications in spite of immunosuppressive treatment, and the final cosmetic and functional result was satisfactory.
liver failure occurring as a component of exertional heatstroke. an unusual case of an exertional heatstroke in a healthy 25-year-old man is presented. initially, the patient was deeply comatose and developed severe rhabdomyolysis and massive hepatic necrosis. subsequently, he received a liver transplant with remarkable improvement in his mental status, although the rhabdomyolysis continued. the patient died 41 days after the transplant due to a complicating infection. providing that infections can be effectively controlled, liver transplants might be a promising therapeutic alternative for the few patients who survive the initial neurological consequences of this unusual event.
determinants of carotid intima-media thickness: a population-based ultrasonography study in eastern finnish men. we investigated the determinants of maximal intima-media thickness of common carotid arteries in a population-based sample of 1224 eastern finnish men aged 42, 48, 54 or 60 years. a high-resolution b-mode ultrasonographic examination was performed as part of the kuopio ischaemic heart disease risk factor study (kihd). the maximal intima-media thickness (imt) varied between 0.48 mm and 4.09 mm (mean value +/- sd, 0.94 mm +/- 0.38 mm). age (standardized partial coefficient, beta = 0.238, p less than 0.0001), ambulatory pulse pressure (beta = 0.130, p less than 0.0001), cigarette-years of smoking (beta = 0.125, p less than 0.0001), serum ldl cholesterol concentration (beta = 0.125, p less than 0.0001), history of ischaemic heart disease (beta = 0.125, p less than 0.0001), pre-exercise systolic blood pressure (beta = 0.070, p = 0.0113) and diabetes (beta = 0.068, p = 0.0072) were most strongly associated with imt. this study confirms the role of systolic blood pressure, smoking and serum ldl cholesterol levels as major risk factors for increased carotid intima-media thickness.
the normal mediastinum in blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta and brachiocephalic arteries. in a review of 52 articles, published between 1953 and 1989, 656 patients with blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta or brachiocephalic arteries were identified. of these, 608 (92.7%) had an abnormal mediastinum on initial chest radiographs obtained in the emergency department, thus allowing early detection of the vascular injury. unfortunately, 48 (7.3%) of these patients had a normal mediastinum on their initial chest radiographs. this appears to occur when the traumatic pseudoaneurysm is not accompanied by associated mediastinal hemorrhage or hematoma formation, and the pseudoaneurysm is either small or is situated in such a way that it does not alter the mediastinal contour. the use of accessory clinical and radiographic signs to indicate the need for aortography has been shown to be of very low yield, but would have allowed the early detection of an additional 5.6% of the reported cases. performing aortography solely on the basis of a history of major decelerating blunt trauma to the thorax remains the only way, in the acute emergency department setting, to detect the 1.7% of patients with aortic or brachiocephalic arterial rupture who have no mediastinal abnormality or accessory clinical or radiographic signs of vascular injury. there is evidence from the literature, however, to suggest that the evaluation of serial chest radiographs obtained at close intervals for the first month following trauma for the development of mediastinal abnormality or large hemothorax is an acceptable alternative to the routine performance of aortography in those blunt chest trauma victims with no clinical or radiographic suspicion of vascular injury.
antithrombotic efficacy of continuous extradural analgesia after knee replacement. we have studied the effect of extradural analgesia on postoperative venous thrombosis in patients undergoing knee arthroplasty. forty-eight patients were allocated randomly to receive either general anaesthesia or extradural analgesia with local anaesthetics for 3 days. all patients wore compressive elastic stockings and no anticoagulant drugs were administered. bilateral venography was performed 10 days after surgery. continuous extradural analgesia did not impede mobilization of the patients. one case of nonfatal pulmonary embolism occurred in a patient who received general anaesthesia. the use of continuous extradural analgesia resulted in a significant difference in the total incidence of deep vein thrombosis (18% compared with 59% after general anaesthesia (p = 0.02]. the incidence of calf vein thrombosis was 12% compared with 45% after general anaesthesia (p = 0.05).
in vitro and in vivo consequences of vla-2 expression on rhabdomyosarcoma cells. cloned integrin alpha 2 subunit complementary dna was expressed on human rhabdomyosarcoma (rd) cells to give a functional vla-2 (alpha 2 beta 1) adhesion receptor. the vla-2-positive rda2 cells not only showed increased adhesion to collagen and laminin in vitro, but also formed substantially more metastatic tumor colonies in nude mice after either intravenous or subcutaneous injection. these results show that a specific adhesion receptor (vla-2) can markedly enhance both experimental and spontaneous metastasis. in contrast to the metastasis results, there was no difference in either the in vitro growth rate or apparent in vivo tumorigenicity of rd and rda2 cells.
palliative operations for colorectal cancer. a review of 96 consecutive patients who underwent palliative surgery for primary colorectal cancer was undertaken to clarify the value of palliation achieved with surgical treatment. the overall rate of postoperative mortality was 8 percent (8 of 96) and the overall rate of postoperative morbidity was 24 percent (23 of 96). the mortality rate was 5 percent (3 of 66) after resective surgery and 17 percent (5 of 30) after nonresective surgery. three deaths were related to the malignant disease, three were related to the intra-abdominal infection, and two were related to formation of intestinocutaneous fistulas. of the 8 patients who died, 1 had a tumor with local visceral involvement only and 7 had a tumor with more distant spread. median survival was 10 months for all patients, 15 months for patients treated with resective surgery, and 7 months for nonresected patients. five patients (5 percent) have survived for longer than 5 years. the median relief of preoperative cancer symptoms was 4 months (4 months after resective surgery and 1 month after nonresective surgery). twenty-five patients have undergone second surgery. it is concluded that palliative resective surgery for colorectal cancer can improve patient comfort with an acceptable postoperative mortality rate when cancer growth is localized and in favorable cases with more distant spread, whereas nonresective surgery fails to achieve symptom relief.
adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma of the tongue. a case of posterior tongue lymphoma associated with adult t-cell leukemia (atl) that occurred as a lesion in the lingual dorsal portion is reported in a 64-year-old woman. initially, a diagnosis of hodgkin's lymphoma was considered as no findings associated with atl except lymphadenopathy and serum anti-atla antibodies were present. combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy were administered with favorable results; however, 4 months later, pneumocystis carinii pneumonia developed, and 2 months later, generalized lymphadenopathy and hypercalcemia evolved. at this time, a diagnosis of atl was made. the patient died of renal dysfunction 6 months after the initial presentation. in suspected cases of atl and malignant diseases of t-cell lineage, namely, malignant lymphoma and mycosis fungoides, the presence of htlv-1 infection should be confirmed by testing for anti-atla antibodies.
coronary balloon angioplasty through diagnostic 6 french catheters. we investigated the use of ultralow profile balloon catheters (scimed ace, usci probe, cordis, orion) for coronary angioplasty through 6 french diagnostic catheters (schneider, cordis). contrast injection was assisted with a hercules pump (cordis) in all cases. during 21 procedures, angioplasty of 27 lesions in 20 selected patients was attempted (1.3 lesion/procedure). twelve lesions were in the right, 10 in the left anterior descending, and 5 in the left circumflex coronary artery. balloon size varied between 2.5 and 3.5 mm. twenty lesions could be successfully dilated (74%) through the 6 french catheter and 7 lesions required an exchange to a 7 french angioplasty guiding catheter. for 5 cases, another balloon was also necessary to complete the procedure. the final overall success rate was 100% per patient and per lesion and there were no major complications. despite the small internal catheter lumen (1.22 mm) coronary visualization was adequate, and mechanical support was good. failures of 6 french catheters were attributed to insufficient torque control and excessive friction when the balloon crossed the tapered end of the diagnostic catheter. coronary angioplasty through a diagnostic 6 french catheter is feasible and may represent a reasonable alternative for simple cases that are done during the same session as the diagnostic angiography. once available, 6 french high flow angioplasty guiding catheters without a tapered tip should improve success while retaining the advantage of a small femoral puncture site.
biology of basal cell carcinoma (part ii). host-tumor relationships involve several factors that can enhance or suppress neoplastic growth. this second part of a review of basal cell carcinoma biology examines the role that hormones, cytokines, local and systemic immunity, congenital and genetic syndromes, and environmental factors play in the development of this neoplasm. theories of etiology and pathogenesis are discussed, and transplantation and cell culture techniques used to study this cancer are explored. valuable second-line therapies for treatment of multiple tumors are reviewed, and important areas of present and future research are emphasized.
dietary fat and risk of breast cancer. the relationship between dietary fat and subsequent risk of breast cancer was studied in 3988 initially cancer-free finnish women aged 20-69 y. during a follow-up period of 20 y, 54 breast-cancer cases were diagnosed. risk of breast cancer was significantly inversely related to energy intake and nonsignificantly inversely related to absolute fat intake. a positive association between energy-adjusted total fat intake and occurrence of breast cancer was also observed. the relative risk in the highest tertile as compared with the lowest tertile was 1.7 (95% confidence limits 0.6-4.8). the corresponding relative risks were 1.4 (0.5-3.7) for saturated fatty acids, 2.7 (1.0-7.4) for monounsaturated fatty acids, 1.2 (0.6-2.8) for polyunsaturated fatty acids, and 2.2 (1.0-5.0) for cholesterol intake. adjustment for different potential confounding factors did not alter the results. the present data suggest that breast cancer is associated inversely with energy intake and weakly positively with energy-adjusted fat intake.
bronchoalveolar carcinoma: factors affecting survival. one hundred thirty-four consecutive patients (65 men and 69 women) underwent pulmonary resection for bronchoalveolar carcinoma. mean age was 65 years. lobectomy was done in 100 patients, pneumonectomy in 10, segmentectomy in 5, and wedge excision in 19. only 10 patients had lymph node metastases (7.5%). the neoplasm was solitary in 111 patients (82.8%); 97 were in stage i, 4 were in stage ii, 9 were in stage iiia, and 1 was in stage iiib. there were two operative deaths (1.5%). thirty-nine complications occurred in 31 patients. median follow-up was 5.1 years. recurrent bronchoalveolar carcinoma developed in 45 patients. five- and 10-year survival for patients in stage i was 75.2% and 62.0%, respectively. survival for patients with t1 n0 m0 neoplasms was identical to expected survival and was 90.5% at 5 years, as compared with 55.4% for patients with t2 n0 m0 disease, only 35.9% for patients with multiple bilateral disease, and 0.0% for patients with bilateral disease (p less than 0.0001). other significant factors adversely affecting survival included the presence of signs and symptoms, diffuse malignant invasion, mucin-producing tumors, and the histological absence of scar. we conclude that bronchoalveolar carcinoma has a unique natural history that is more influenced by local neoplastic processes than by lymph node metastases. early aggressive pulmonary resection is safe and offers the potential for cure. the presence of bilateral cancer, however, is ominous.
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicating multiple myeloma. pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicated the course of two patients with multiple myeloma. the diagnosis was established in both cases by bronchoalveolar lavage, which demonstrated the typical pneumocysts. clinical and roentgenographic improvement in both patients was observed following a course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. one patient had lymphocyte subsets performed with a cd4/cd8 ratio of 0.8; both patients were hiv antibody-negative by elisa. both patients tolerated prophylactic tmp-smx given concurrently with the subsequent chemotherapy for myeloma. we suggest that the immune defect seen in multiple myeloma may have placed these patients at risk for opportunistic infections such as p carinii pneumonia; however, as opposed to patients with aids, our patients tolerated therapy with tmp-smz quite well.
induction, blockade and restoration of a persistent hypersensitive state. a new model of chronic hypersensitivity was developed in the rat by daily intraplantar administration of either prostaglandin e2 dopamine or isoprenaline, for a period of 2 weeks. like other hyperalgesic mediators, dibutyryl-camp, when applied to the paws, caused an acute effect but did not produce persistent hypersensitivity. the persistent hypersensitive state was not affected by a typical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (indomethacin), was temporarily inhibited by a centrally acting analgesic (morphine), was partially inhibited by a protein synthesis inhibitor (cycloheximide) and abolished by a single dose of peripherally acting analgesics such as dipyrone or n-methyl morphine. once the residual hypersensitivity had been abolished with dipyrone or n-methyl morphine, a small dose of prostaglandin e2, dopamine or interleukin-1 beta, which in normal animals causes a mild and short lived effect, restored the persistent hypersensitive state. this ability to restore the persistent effect was not observed with intraplantar administration of dibutyryl-camp. our results suggest the existence of a peripheral trace of inflammatory pain, a phenomenon which may be associated with stimulation of neuronal adenylate cyclase and protein synthesis. this concept may explain part of the puzzle of chronic inflammatory pain and lead to the development of new analgesics.
distinguishable types of dyspnea in patients with shortness of breath. dyspnea frequently accompanies a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities. although dyspnea is often considered a single sensation, alternatively it may encompass multiple sensations that are not well explained by a single physiologic mechanism. to investigate whether breathlessness experienced by patients represents more than one sensation, we studied 53 patients with one of the following seven conditions: pulmonary vascular disease, neuromuscular and chest wall disease, congestive heart failure, pregnancy, interstitial lung disease, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. patients were asked to choose descriptions of their sensation(s) of breathlessness from a dyspnea questionnaire listing 19 descriptors. cluster analysis was used to identify natural groupings among the chosen descriptors. we found that patients could distinguish different sensations of breathlessness. in addition, we found an association between certain groups of descriptors and specific conditions producing dyspnea. these findings concur with those in an earlier study in normal volunteers in whom dyspnea was induced by various stimuli. we conclude that different types of dyspnea exist in patients with a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities. furthermore, different mechanisms may mediate these various sensations.
new operative method for distal aortopulmonary septal defect. a new technique is described for repairing distal aortopulmonary septal defect with aortic origin of the right pulmonary artery in a 26-day-old neonate. to prevent the narrowing of the proximal right pulmonary artery in the distal aortopulmonary septal defect caused by conventional intraluminal prosthetic patch reconstruction, rerouting of the right pulmonary artery using native aortic wall tissue without artificial material was performed. this method seems to be superior to the conventional method, especially during the neonatal period.
when epilepsy masquerades as heart disease. awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis. autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations, including cardiac arrhythmias, sudden death, anginal chest pain, neurogenic pulmonary edema, and symptoms of pheochromocytoma. either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms. a better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis, because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing.
china white epidemic: an eastern united states emergency department experience. study objective: the purpose of this study was to isolate significant clinical or demographic findings concerning overdose patients treated during a china white (3-methyl fentanyl) epidemic and compare them with data for all unintentional narcotic overdose patients during a 24-month period. design: we reviewed charts from 85,246 patient visits to our emergency department during the 24-month period of january 1987 through december 1988 to study this narcotic epidemic. data from the allegheny county coroner's office pertaining to unintentional drug overdose deaths that occurred during this same period also were reviewed. setting: the first outbreak of narcotic overdoses in the eastern united states involving china white occurred in allegheny county, pennsylvania, in 1988. type of participants: patients were included if they met the criteria of a suspected unintentional narcotic overdose, but excluded if they were not given naloxone. interventions: emergency physicians became suspicious of china white use after an unusual increase in narcotic overdoses presenting to the ed coupled with "routine drug of abuse" screens negative for opiates despite dramatic patient responses to naloxone. in most of the cases in which specific testing was done, there were positive indicators of fentanyl derivatives. investigations found china white present in street drugs and paraphernalia. measurements and main results: a cluster was defined as a time period with a statistically significant increase in overdoses over the expected number for an interval of equal length. although there were no significant clinical differences in case presentation during the 24-month period, there was a statistically significant 13-fold increase in overdoses during the september through november 1988 cluster (mean, 13 vs 0.95 per month, p less than .001 by wilcoxon rank-sum test). a dramatic increase in unintentional drug overdose deaths occurred in the county during this cluster. a total of 18 fentanyl-positive unintentional drug overdose deaths, predominantly male (89%) and black (56%), with an age range of 19 to 44 years (mean, 34.9 years), were reported by the county coroner (13 during the cluster). narcotic overdoses and unintentional drug overdose deaths declined sharply with confiscation of a clandestine china white laboratory. conclusions: china white was responsible for a dramatic rise in unintentional drug overdose deaths in allegheny county in 1988. there were no significant clinical differences between china white overdose survivors and other unintentional narcotic overdose victims. overdoses responsive to naloxone with inconsistent routine toxicologic screens may be due to a fentanyl analogue.
norwalk virus genome cloning and characterization. major epidemic outbreaks of acute gastroenteritis result from infections with norwalk or norwalk-like viruses. virus purified from stool specimens of volunteers experimentally infected with norwalk virus was used to construct recombinant complementary dna (cdna) and derive clones representing most of the viral genome. the specificity of the clones was shown by their hybridization with post- (but not pre-) infection stool samples from volunteers infected with norwalk virus and with purified norwalk virus. a correlation was observed between the appearance of hybridization signals in stool samples and clinical symptoms of acute gastroenteritis in volunteers. hybridization assays between overlapping clones, restriction enzyme analyses, and partial nucleotide sequence information of the clones indicated that norwalk virus contains a single-stranded rna genome of positive sense, with a polyadenylated tail at the 3' end and a size of at least 7.5 kilobases. a consensus amino acid sequence motif typical of viral rna-dependent rna polymerases was identified in one of the norwalk virus clones. the availability of norwalk-specific cdna and the new sequence information of the viral genome should permit the development of sensitive diagnostic assays and studies of the molecular biology of the virus.
"mini-perforation" of the colon--not all postpolypectomy perforations require laparotomy. in a 10-year experience with 4,784 consecutive colonoscopic polypectomies, the need for operative intervention in just two of seven perforations indicates that patients with specially defined, limited perforations can usually be treated nonoperatively. this specific complication, which has been termed "mini-perforation," is generally detected within 6-24 hours of polypectomy, and is characterized by local pain and tenderness, without signs of diffuse or spreading peritoneal irritation. free intra-abdominal or retroperitoneal air on x-ray documents the actual perforation. complete resolution of symptoms within 24-48 hours confirms the diagnosis of "mini-perforation." success depends on good bowel preparation for colonoscopy, and early recognition of perforation, with institution of bowel rest and intravenous antibiotics. the "mini-perforation" spontaneously closes, probably by omental adherence. frequent serial clinical examinations are mandatory so that frank perforation with advancing peritonitis will be promptly recognized and treated surgically. an understanding of the three levels of cautery injury to the colon wall--"serosal burn," "mini-perforation," and "frank perforation" are essential in managing the complications of colonoscopic polypectomy.
clinical results of femoropopliteal bypass using externally supported (exs) dacron grafts: with a comparison of above- and below-knee anastomosis. as of the end of september 1989, 52 exs dacron grafts had been implanted for femoropopliteal bypass operations. the distal ends of 27 grafts were anastomosed to above-knee popliteal arteries and those of 25 grafts to below-knee popliteal arteries. the cumulative patency rate of above-knee grafts was 71.3% at 54 months, and that of below-knee grafts was 78.8% at 48 months (n.s.). kinking and stenosis of the arteriosclerotic proximal and/or mid popliteal artery when the knee was bent were angiographically remarkable. these changes may explain why some femoropopliteal grafts occlude with time and why the late results of above-knee grafts are not much better than those of below-knee grafts.
high survival rate in advanced-stage b-cell lymphomas and leukemias without cns involvement with a short intensive polychemotherapy: results from the french pediatric oncology society of a randomized trial of 216 children. from april 1984 to december 1987, the french pediatric oncology society (sfop) organized a randomized trial for advanced-stage b-cell lymphoma without cns involvement to study the possibility of reducing the length of treatment to 4 months. after receiving the same three intensive six-drug induction courses based on high-dose fractionated cyclophosphamide, high-dose methotrexate (hd mtx), and cytarabine in continuous infusion, patients were evaluated for remission. those who achieved complete remission (cr) were randomized between a long arm (five additional courses with two additional drugs; 16 weeks of treatment) and a short arm (two additional courses; 5 weeks). for patients in partial remission (pr), intensification of treatment was indicated. two hundred sixteen patients were registered: 15 stage ii nasopharyngeal and extensive facial tumors, 167 stage iii, and 34 stage iv, 20 of the latter having more than 25% blast cells in bone marrow. the primary sites of involvement were abdomen in 172, head and neck in 30, thorax in two, and other sites in 12. one hundred sixty-seven patients are alive in first cr with a minimum follow-up of 18 months; four are lost to follow-up. eight patients died from initial treatment failure, 14 died from toxicity or deaths unrelated to tumor or treatment, and 27 relapsed. the event-free survival (efs), with a median follow-up of 38 months, is 78% (se 3) for all the patients, 73% (se 11) for the stage ii patients, 80% (se 3) for the stage iii patients, and 68% (se 8) for the stage iv and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) patients. one hundred sixty-six patients were randomized: 82 in the short arm and 84 in the long arm. efs is, respectively, 89% and 87%. statistical analysis confirms equivalence of both treatment arms with regard to efs. moreover, morbidity was lower in the short arm. this study confirms the high survival rate obtained in the previous lmb 0281 study without radiotherapy or debulking surgery and demonstrates the effectiveness of short treatment.
effectiveness of carboplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin combination chemotherapy in good-prognosis metastatic testicular nonseminomatous germ cell tumors. the combination of carboplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin (ceb) was evaluated as initial chemotherapy in 76 patients with good-prognosis metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (nsgct) between 1984 and 1988. the classification of eligible patients included royal marsden hospital (rmh) stages im, iia, iib, iic, iiia, iiib, iv0abcl1, and iv0abl2. four courses of combination chemotherapy were administered in a 21-day cycle, and surgical excision of residual mass was performed in 27 cases (23 laparotomies and four thoracotomies). at the time of analysis, median follow-up was 24 months from start of chemotherapy (range, 6 to 54 months). the 2-year cause-specific survival probability was 98.5%, the single cause-related mortality being caused by bleomycin pneumonitis. five patients failed ceb chemotherapy, but all have been successfully salvaged with a combination of surgery and intensive chemotherapy, follow-up from completion of all treatment being 35 to 44 months. the toxicity of ceb included bone marrow suppression and alopecia in all patients but no significant neurotoxicity or ototoxicity, and minimal renal toxicity. only four (5%) patients had a decrease in the glomerular filtration rate greater than 15%. in 51% of patients, the hemoglobin fell below 10 g/dl. the wbc count nadir was less than 1,500/microl in 11% of treatment cycles and in 16% the platelet nadir fell below 50,000/microl. decreases in the wbc and platelet counts were of very brief duration. only one of 310 ceb cycles was complicated by neutropenic sepsis, and there were no episodes of thrombocytopenic purpura or bleeding. we conclude that the ceb combination represents an effective alternative to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in good-prognosis nsgct and that the replacement of cisplatin by carboplatin leads to reduced toxicity.
dissection of the aorta associated with congenital malformation of the aortic valve. the association of congenital aortic valve malformation and aortic dissection is analyzed. over a 30 year period, 186 patients with non-iatrogenic aortic dissection were studied at necropsy. the aortic valve was tricuspid in 170 (91.4%), bicuspid in 14 (7.5%) and unicuspid in 2 (1.1%). among the 16 patients with aortic dissection and a congenitally malformed valve, the age at death ranged from 17 to 82 years (mean 52) and 13 (81%) were men. the entrance tear of the aortic dissection was located in the ascending aorta in all 16 patients with a malformed valve but in only 68% of those with a tricuspid aortic valve. the aortic valve was stenotic in 6 of the 16 patients with a congenitally malformed valve. fatal rupture of the false channel occurred after acute ascending aortic dissection in each of the 11 patients (none with healed dissection) who did not have operative therapy for the dissection. two of the 16 patients with a malformed valve compared with no patient with a tricuspid aortic valve had aortic isthmic coarctation. histologic sections of aorta from 10 patients disclosed severe degeneration of the elastic fibers of the media in 9 patients. thus, a congenitally malformed aortic valve appears to be present at least 5 times more frequently in adults with than in those without aortic dissection, and in our patients the entrance tear was always in the ascending aorta, which usually had severe loss of elastic fibers in its media.
bleeding ectatic vascular lesion involving the sigmoid colon, endoscopically indistinguishable from angiodysplasia, in an 8-yr-old boy. an 8-yr-old japanese boy was hospitalized, complaining of active hematochezia. he was shown to have a cherry-red, blood-oozing area of vascular dilation with mucosal prominence in the sigmoid colon by endoscopy, but had no other mucocutaneous vascular abnormalities. a family history was noncontributory. under the clinical diagnosis of angiodysplasia of the sigmoid colon, he underwent an elliptical resection of the part, based on the intraoperative endoscopic findings. however, histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed a totally different picture from that seen in angiodysplasia: the thin-walled, markedly ectatic, nontortuous veins with hemorrhage were seen only just below the muscularis mucosae, around which the normal ones were shown to coexist. he has had no rebleeding for the past 3 yr. this lesion is considered to be an isolated congenital visceral telangiectasia involving veins.
serial magnetic resonance imaging in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. we prospectively performed magnetic resonance imaging (mri) studies during the neonatal period, and at 4 and 8 months of age, on 15 term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, and compared the results with their neurodevelopmental outcome at 18 months of age. cerebral palsy developed in nine infants, two infants were classified as having abnormalities of tone and delayed motor milestones that were suggestive of cerebral palsy, and four infants were normal. structural abnormalities, delayed myelination, or a combination of the two were detected with mri at 8 months of age in all nine infants with later development of cerebral palsy. three of the four normal infants and one infant with suggestive abnormalities had normal serial mri findings. each of the remaining two infants (one normal, one with suggestive abnormalities) had isolated persistent ventricular dilation on all three mri studies. our results suggest that 8 months appears to be the earliest time at which mri findings correlate well with later adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in this population.
the efficacy of brainstem auditory evoked potentials in acoustic tumor surgery. as the identification of patients with small acoustic neuromas and salvageable hearing increases, intraoperative auditory nerve monitoring has been used increasingly in an attempt to improve the hearing preservation rate. far-field recordings obtained by brainstem auditory evoked potentials (baep), at times enhanced by electrocochleography, have become a standard method of intraoperative auditory nerve assessment. to evaluate the usefulness of this monitoring technique, the hearing preservation results of a series of unmonitored acoustic tumor removals were compared to a series of patients monitored via the standard brainstem auditory evoked potentials. with comparable average tumor sizes, 4 of 7 unmonitored patients had hearing preserved at preoperative levels compared to 4 of 9 monitored patients. neither preoperative baep assessments nor absolute tumor size were predictive of hearing preservation. this report brings into question the effectiveness of far-field intraoperative baep monitoring during acoustic tumor resection and suggests that direct auditory nerve monitoring may be more appropriate.
interferon alfa therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. effects on hepatitis b virus dna in the liver. pretrial and posttrial liver biopsy samples from 124 adult patients who participated in two randomized, controlled trials of interferon alfa therapy for chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection were analyzed to determine the effects of interferon on the replication of hbv in the liver. replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the pretrial biopsy samples from all and posttrial biopsy samples from 74% treated patients and 86% controls. replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the posttrial biopsy samples from all patients who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen and hbv dna in the serum, in 77% treated patients and 80% controls who cleared hbv dna in the serum but who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen, but in only 19% treated patients and 40% controls who cleared hbv dna as well as hepatitis b e antigen in the serum. serum alanine aminotransferase levels were significantly lower in patients whose posttrial biopsies did not contain replicative forms of hbv dna. in summary, we demonstrated that in most patients with chronic hbv infection treated with interferon alfa, serological response was associated with the disappearance of replicative forms of hbv dna in the liver.
evidence for motor neuropathy and reduced filling of the rectum in chronic intractable constipation. subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis is now frequently offered to patients with slow transit constipation who have severe symptoms and no response to more conventional medical treatment. if this operation is to be successful, the underlying problem should be delay in the progress of contents through the colon but no mechanical or functional obstruction in the small bowel or rectum. we have used a recently described technique of prolonged ambulant manometry and electromyography to investigate anorectal function in these patients. pressure data were collected using a 2 mm diameter intrarectal probe carrying microtransducers, and external anal sphincter activity was assessed by a pair of silver-silver chloride surface electrodes. fourteen control subjects and eight patients with colonic inertia were studied. sampling reflexes, indicative of rectal filling, occurred at mean (sem) rates of 7.4 (2.0)/hour in controls but were significantly reduced in patients (2.4 (0.3)/hour (p less than 0.01]. recurrent rectal motor complexes were seen to occur in both groups at intervals of 76 (1.8) minutes in controls and 64.9 (7.2) minutes in patients (p less than 0.1), and with amplitudes of 42.4 (2.1) mmhg and 9.2 (0.7) mmhg (p less than 0.001), respectively. external sphincter electromyographic spike activity did not differ between groups. our results support the concept of reduced transit of faeces to the rectum from the colon over a 24 hour period in slow transit constipation and suggest that a motor neuropathy may also be present in the rectum.
periapical lesions of mandibular bone: difficulties in early diagnostics. it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease. in this paper these problems are discussed, and some suggestions are made to overcome them. the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma, histiocytic lymphoma, and chronic osteomyelitis. the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women, all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling, diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone, uncertain response to treatment, and an unusual progress of the disease.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy. with more than 500,000 cholecystectomies performed per year, great interest has developed in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the procedure offers the patient reduced hospital stay, faster return to work, less pain, and improved cosmetic results. in september 1988, we developed a technique of performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy that we have now performed in more than 800 cases with good results. the technique allows the surgeon to fully evaluate the common duct via operative cholangiography and has allowed us to use a laparoscopic approach in all patients who were candidates for cholecystectomy. the technique offers a minimally invasive alternative to open cholecystectomy.
maternal serum screening for aneuploid pregnancy by alpha-fetoprotein, hcg, and unconjugated estriol. a number of serum screening protocols are either currently in use or proposed to identify pregnant women under 35 years of age who are at increased risk for a down syndrome fetus. it has been suggested that these same screening methods be applied to gravidas over 35 years of age to identify those women who should be offered amniocentesis. to evaluate the efficacy of screening for detection of aneuploid pregnancy in this age group, the serum samples of 34 women who underwent amniocentesis and who had confirmed fetal aneuploidy were assayed for alpha-fetoprotein (afp), hcg, and unconjugated estriol (e3). these concentrations were compared with those of 85 women with known euploid pregnancy who underwent amniocentesis for advanced maternal age. the mean multiple of the median (mom) for each of the three markers was significantly different from control values in cases of trisomy 21 (afp median mom = 0.82; unconjugated e3 median mom = 0.77; and hcg median mom = 1.89). these differences were not found when other aneuploidies were considered. likelihood ratios were calculated for cases and controls and examined for their ability to predict the need for amniocentesis, based on currently recommended risk levels. there was a significant difference between the mean likelihood ratio for cases of trisomy 21 compared with that of controls (mean likelihood ratio = 13.48); there was no significant difference for other aneuploidies (mean likelihood ratio = 1.08). of the 16 cases of trisomy 21 analyzed, four would not have been diagnosed antenatally if recommendation against amniocentesis had been made based on each woman's individual age-specific risk as modified by her likelihood ratio.
predicting radionuclide bone scan findings in patients with newly diagnosed, untreated prostate cancer: prostate specific antigen is superior to all other clinical parameters. presently, the standard staging evaluation of prostate cancer includes digital rectal examination, measurement of serum tumor markers and a radionuclide bone scan. to evaluate the ability of local clinical stage, tumor grade, serum acid phosphatase, serum prostatic acid phosphatase (pap) and serum prostate specific antigen (psa) to predict bone scan findings, a retrospective review of 521 randomly chosen patients (mean age 70 years, range 44 to 92 years) with newly diagnosed, untreated prostate cancer was performed. local clinical stage, tumor grade, acid phosphatase, pap and psa all correlated positively with bone scan findings (p less than 0.0001). using receiver operating characteristic curves, however, psa had the best over-all correlation with bone scan results. the median serum psa concentration in patients with a positive bone scan was 158.0 ng./ml., whereas men with a negative bone scan had a median serum psa level of 11.3 ng./ml. (p less than 0.0001). using multivariate logistic regression analysis, local clinical stage, tumor grade, acid phosphatase and pap were evaluated in combination with psa to assess whether these parameters increased the ability of psa alone to predict bone scan findings. none of these clinical parameters, irrespective of the combination used, contributed appreciably to the predictive power of psa alone. a probability plot with 95% confidence intervals was constructed that allows the practicing urologist to estimate on an individual basis the probability of a positive bone scan for any given serum psa value. the most significant finding of this study, however, was the negative predictive value of a low serum psa concentration for bone scan findings. in 306 men with a serum psa level of 20 ng./ml. or less only 1 (psa 18.2 ng./ml.) had a positive bone scan (negative predictive value 99.7%). this finding would suggest that a staging radionuclide bone scan in a previously untreated prostate cancer patient with a low serum psa concentration may not be necessary.
transesophageal doppler color flow mapping assessment of atrial septal defect. transesophageal doppler color flow imaging was performed in 19 adult patients (mean age 35 years) with an atrial septal defect demonstrated by cardiac catheterization or at surgery, or both. the transesophageal study correctly identified and classified 19 of 19 shunts in contrast to 16 of 18 shunts identified by the transthoracic approach. the area of the atrial septal defect was calculated by assuming it to be circular and taking the maximal doppler color flow jet width at the defect site as its diameter. the pulsed doppler sample volume was placed parallel to the shunt flow direction at the defect site to obtain the mean velocity and flow duration. from these values, the shunt volume was calculated as a product of the defect area, mean velocity, flow duration and heart rate. the calculated shunt flow volume obtained by transesophageal study showed a good correlation with shunt flow volume (r = 0.91, p less than 0.001) and pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio (r = 0.84, p less than 0.001) obtained at cardiac catheterization. the size of the defect by transesophageal doppler color flow mapping correlated fairly well with the size estimated at surgery (r = 0.73, p = 0.004). it is concluded that transesophageal doppler color flow imaging is useful in the detection and classification of atrial septal defects and in the assessment of shunt volumes.
ki67 index and s-phase fraction in human breast carcinomas. comparison and correlations with prognostic factors. in a prospective study of 148 consecutive breast adenocarcinomas, proliferative indices of the same surgical tumor sample were performed by immunohistologic staining (ki67 index) with the use of the ki67 monoclonal antibody, which binds to a nuclear antigen only expressed in cycling cells, and by flow cytometry-derived s-phase fraction (spf). measurable ki67 and spf indices were obtained in 142 cases and 99 cases, respectively, and in 96 cases by both methods. in aneuploid tumors, a significant but low (p less than 0.05, r = 0.3) relationship was observed between ki67 index and spf. when compared with clinical, pathologic, and biochemical parameters these two proliferative indices were shown to be associated with nuclear grading and mitotic index. additionally, correlations were observed between ki67 index and node involvement (p less than 0.02) and between spf and estrogen receptors (p = 0.002). these results show that (1) proliferative indices are obtained in 96% of surgical samples with ki67 versus 67% with spf and that (2) ki67 index and spf may provide complementary data with respect to prognosis.
murine retroviral neurovirulence correlates with an enhanced ability ofvirus to infect selectively, replicate in, and activate resident microglial cells [published erratum appears in am j pathol 1991 may;138(5):1058] to determine the biologic basis of ts1 momulv neurovirulence in vivo, newborn cfw/d mice were inoculated with neurovirulent ts1 momulv and nonneurovirulent wt momulv and the temporal response to virus infection in the central nervous system (cns), spleen, and thymus was studied comparatively. experimental procedures included single and double labeling in situ immunohistochemistry with selective morphometric analyses, and steady state immunoblotting of viral proteins. cellular targets for virus infection were identical for both ts1 and wt momulv and consisted sequentially of 1) splenic megakaryocytes, 2) splenic and thymic lymphocytes, 3) cns capillary endothelial cells, and 4) cns pericytes and microglia. resident microglial cells served as the major reservor and amplifier of virus infection in the cns of ts1 momulv-infected mice; a similar but much less significant role was played by microglia in wt momulv-infected mice. the genesis and progression of severe spongiform lesions in ts1 momulv-infected mice were both temporally and spatially correlated with amplified virus infection of microglia, and hyperplasia and hypertrophy of both virus-infected and nonvirus-infected microglial cells. direct virus infection of neurons was never observed. the development of clinical neurologic disease and spongiform lesions in ts1 momulv-infected mice correlated with the accumulation of both viral gag and env gene products in the cns; there was no selective accumulation of env precursor polyprotein pr80env. when compared to wt momulv-infected mice, the neurovirulence of ts1 momulv-infected mice occurred by an enhanced ability to replicate in the cns and to infect and activate more microglia, rather than by a fundamental change in cellular tropism or topography of virus infection.
endosonography of pararectal lymph nodes. in vitro and in vivo evaluation. one hundred thirteen patients with carcinoma of the rectum were evaluated for lymph node metastases by endorectal ultrasound. with the use of 7.5 mhz and based on different echo patterns, two main groups of lymph nodes can be differentiated: hypoechoic and hyperechoic lymph nodes. compared with pathologic findings, hypoechoic lymph nodes represent metastases, whereas hyperechoic lymph nodes are visualized due to unspecific inflammation. lymph node metastases can be predicted with a sensitivity of 72 percent and inflammatory lymph nodes with a specificity of 83 percent. the physical basis of the differentiation of lymph nodes was assessed in vitro by the determination of ultrasound parameters (speed of sound, acoustic impedance, attenuation, and backscattered amplitude). the attenuation coefficient of benign lymph nodes [2.5 db/(mhz x cm)] is significantly higher than the mean value of lymph node metastases [1.3 db/(mhz x cm)]. the results demonstrate that involved nodes can principally be differentiated from not involved nodes. micrometastases, mixed lymph nodes, and changing echo patterns within inflammatory nodes explain the accuracy rate of 78 percent.
assessment and counseling of coronary risk factors by family practice residents. a study was undertaken to determine (1) the likelihood that patients seen for episodic health care in a family medical center have been assessed and counseled for coronary heart disease (chd) risk factors, and (2) the likelihood that patients having an identified risk factor have been assessed and counseled regarding other chd risk factors. one thousand five hundred twenty-eight medical records were randomly selected from all visits occurring over two periods in 1986 and 1987 to 122 residents in an eight-site family medicine residency network. patients with cardiovascular disease and those younger than 20 or older than 65 years of age were excluded. assessments were made of (1) smoking history, blood pressure, weight, physical activity, and dietary content during the previous 12 months; (2) family history of cardiovascular disease during the previous 12 months and in the initial patient history; (3) and blood cholesterol during the prior 5 years. risk-factor counseling practices were examined for the previous 12 months. blood pressure was assessed in 96% of patients, smoking in 40%, cholesterol in 26%, and family history in 52%. ninety-six percent of hypertensive patients were counseled for hypertension, but only 45% of smokers and 20% of patients with hypercholesterolemia were counseled for those risk factors. of patients having a given risk factor, assessment for any other risk factor occurred in fewer than 60% of cases. patients having a documented positive family history were only slightly more likely than other patients to be assessed for additional risk factors. there is continued need for enhancing coronary risk-factor assessment and counseling by resident physicians.
ventricular late potentials and induced ventricular arrhythmias after surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot. ventricular tachycardia (vt) and sudden death are rare but recognized complications after surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot. we prospectively studied 31 patients (19 boys and 12 girls, mean age +/- standard deviation 7 +/- 4 years) with postoperative tetralogy of fallot, by means of right-sided cardiac catheterization, 24-hour holter monitoring, body-surface and intracavitary signal-averaging (gain 10(5) to 10(6), filters of 100 and 300 hz) and programmed ventricular stimulation (1 and 2 extrastimuli, 3 basic cycle lengths, right ventricular apex and outflow tract). all patients were asymptomatic and none had documented or suspected ventricular arrhythmias. ventricular late potentials were detected in 10 of 31 patients (32%) and spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias in 12 of 31 patients (39%). no sustained vt was induced by programmed ventricular stimulation but nonsustained vt was induced in 3 patients (10%). patients with inducible vt more often had late potentials (3 of 3 vs 7 of 28, p less than 0.01), and spontaneous ventricular premature complexes (vpcs) during holter monitoring (3 of 3 vs 9 of 28, p less than 0.05). to predict vt inducibility, late potentials had a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 75%, a positive predictive value of 30% and a negative predictive value of 100%. for spontaneous vpcs, the figures were 100, 68, 25 and 100%, respectively. it is concluded that shortly after repair of tetralogy of fallot, the presence of both spontaneous vpcs and ventricular late potentials are associated with an increased incidence of inducible vt. conversely, the absence of vpcs and ventricular late potentials may identify patients at low risk of subsequent ventricular arrhythmias.
the value of immunohistochemistry for collagen iv expression in colorectal carcinomas. the dukes' classification has well-established prognostic value in colorectal cancer patients. yet, in each dukes' class, the survival of individual patients may vary considerably. recent studies show prognostic significance of genetic alterations in colorectal carcinoma. however, the importance of tumor stromal components noted in the surrounding tissue may have been overlooked by the methods used. therefore, in a longitudinal study of 154 patients with colorectal cancer operated on between 1967 and 1974, the authors determined the influence on prognosis of lymphocytic infiltration and expression of collagen type iv in tumor stroma. also, age, sex, dukes' classification, grade of tumor differentiation, vasoinvasion, and the number of positive lymph nodes were analyzed. follow-up was at least 15 years. lymphocytic infiltration and collagen iv expression were scored as mild, moderate, or severe. survival was analyzed by a cox proportional-hazards model. the density of lymphocytic invasion showed no significant influence on survival. collagen iv expression analyzed as a single variable was significantly (p = 0.038) related to better prognosis in colorectal cancer patients. by multi-variate analysis collagen iv expression showed a trend toward better prognosis that was not statistically significant (p = 0.12). dukes' classification (p less than 0.001), the presence of vasoinvasion (p = 0.009), and lymph node status (p = 0.04) significantly influenced survival. in conclusion immunohistochemistry for collagen iv is an important additional staining technique with prognostic value. in addition, collagen iv immunostaining facilitates recognition of vascular invasion by highlighting the basement membrane of vessels.
acute naming deficits following dominant temporal lobectomy: prediction by age at 1st risk for seizures. age at 1st risk for seizures may predict anomia following dominant anterior temporal lobectomy. we assessed confrontation naming before and 2 to 3 weeks after surgery in 45 right-handed patients grouped by side of focus and presence or absence of early (less than or equal to 5 years) risk factors. after left lobectomy, 6 of 10 (60%) patients with no early risks demonstrated significant decline (greater than or equal to 25%) in naming, but none of the patients with early risks showed this decline. after right lobectomy, there was no change. cerebral representation of naming may be atypical in patients with early risks.
intraoperative assessment of cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery. one of the problems in carotid surgery is the intraoperative detection of brain ischemia. none of the methods (eeg; stump pressure) applied so far have been successful. branston et al. (1974) found a threshold relationship between cortical cerebral blood flow and cortical somatosensory evoked potential (sep). as the local blood flow fell below about 16 ml/100 g/min a progressive reduction occurred in the amplitude of the cortical evoked potential (n20/p25), implying a fundamental failure of neuronal function in the somatosensory cortex. we have monitored cortical sep (somatosensory evoked potential) during 734 cea's (carotid endarterectomies) in order to find an index of risk of incipient cerebral ischemia during carotid cross-clamping, to determine the need for shunting and the causes of early irreversible neurologic deficits. in 59 cases evaluation of sep was not possible because of technical difficulties. during 586 cea's no alteration of sep occurred. however, 4 patients had an immediate postoperative neurologic deficit, while the sep remained normal. abnormal sep occurred in 89 cases and in 6 of these an irreversible loss of sep was seen. these patients awoke with a new neurologic deficit. we found a reversible abnormal sep in 83 cases. reversible changes of sep occurred mainly during carotid clamping. the diagnostic sensitivity of intraoperative sep monitoring in predicting neurologic outcome was 60% with a specificity of 100%.
the butterfly rash and the malar flush. what diseases do these signs reflect? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders. systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs. in pellagra, symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body. erysipelas produces brawny, fiery red facial lesions, and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption. lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern, and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face. carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration, and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction. deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation.
familial ovarian cancer in israeli jewish women. among 310 women with ovarian cancer of epithelial origin, eight ovarian cancer-prone families were identified, accounting for 24 cases. five first-degree relatives underwent prophylactic oophorectomy, and early ovarian carcinoma was diagnosed in one of them. familial aggregation of ovarian cancer occurs in the israeli jewish population.
use of various epithelial tumor markers and a stromal marker in the assessment of cervical carcinoma. the epithelial cell tumor markers squamous cell carcinoma antigen, ca 125, ca 15-3, and tag 72, and the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen, an indicator of collagen metabolism, were evaluated in 111 cervical carcinoma patients. squamous cell carcinoma antigen was pathologic in 47%, aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen in 40%, ca 125 in 13%, ca 15-3 in 30%, and tag 72 in 9% of the 91 patients with squamous cell carcinoma. the squamous cell carcinoma antigen, aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen, and ca 125 correlated with the clinical stage. the predictive value of a pathologic squamous cell carcinoma antigen was 78% and that of a negative result 68%. squamous cell carcinoma antigen and aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen further increased the detection rate by approximately 20% from that obtained by squamous cell carcinoma antigen alone. in 16 patients with advanced disease, squamous cell carcinoma antigen correlated with the behavior of the disease in eight, aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen in nine, and ca 125 in six patients. pathologic squamous cell carcinoma antigen, ca 125, ca 15-3, tag 72, and aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen appeared in 11, 32, 31, 31, and 47% of 19 patients with adenocarcinoma, respectively. squamous cell carcinoma antigen is clinically useful in squamous cell carcinoma but poor in adenocarcinoma, for which the other markers are better. squamous cell carcinoma antigen, ca 125, and aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen may be used for monitoring the behavior of advanced squamous cell carcinoma.
possible mechanisms of abnormal norepinephrine sensitivity and reactivity of resistance vessels and the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. a hypothesis. this study examined structural and functional changes of mesenteric resistance vessels in early, developing, and established stages of hypertension development in spontaneously hypertensive rats in an attempt to identify possible mechanisms of the development and maintenance of hypertension. our results suggest that the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats may be caused by genetic structural and functional abnormalities of resistance vessels. both abnormalities may be caused by hyperreactivity to norepinephrine through an altered signal transduction process, including the regulation of protein kinase c in smooth muscle cells of resistance vessels in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
artificial urinary sphincter insertion in congenital neuropathic bladder. a series of 44 patients with neuropathic bladder dysfunction due to congenital myelodysplasia underwent implantation of an artificial urinary sphincter (aus); in 26 patients a reconstructive procedure was performed at the same time. five patients who initially had aus implantation alone developed detrusor hyper-reflexia and required a clam cystoplasty. forty patients (90%) are continent, 2 are occasionally damp and 2 are wet and awaiting further surgery; 66% of patients who underwent aus insertion and reconstruction were found to have significant residual urine and they perform intermittent self-catheterisation (isc). in patients with a good bladder capacity and normal compliance and detrusor hyper-reflexia controlled by anticholinergic drugs, cystoplasty is not necessary at the time of aus insertion.
delirium: masquerades and misdiagnosis in elderly inpatients. delirium is an organic mental disorder defined as transient, fluctuating global dysfunction of cognition. it is common in elderly medical inpatients, yet its varied presentation is often missed or misdiagnosed.
colonic motor activity in acute colitis in conscious dogs. the changes in motor activity of the colon during acute colitis were investigated in six conscious dogs. the motor activity was recorded with seven strain-gauge transducers. colitis was induced in the entire colon by luminal perfusion of acetic acid. the dogs exhibited urgency and diarrhea with mucus and blood during colitis. the mucosa was diffusely erythematous and friable and there were scattered ulcerations over the mucosal surface. the motor activity of the colon changed in several ways during colitis: (a) the total duration per hour and the mean duration of contractile states decreased significantly; (b) the cycle length of colonic migrating motor complexes was significantly prolonged, and the nonmigrating motor complexes were almost completely absent; and (d) the incidence of giant migrating contractions increased significantly. about half of the giant migrating contractions were followed by defecation. the remaining expelled mucus or gas. sometimes, a migrating motor complex in the colon was also followed by defecation; this was never observed in the normal state. the motor activity of the colon was still decreased and the cycle length prolonged 21 days after induction of colitis. however, the dogs were asymptomatic at this time and the mucosa looked normal at colonoscopy. the incidence of giant migrating contractions was also normal at this time. it was concluded that the dog is a good model for the study of colitis because of the similarity of symptoms with human ulcerative colitis. the phasic contractions of the colon decreases during colitis but the incidence of giant migrating contractions is increased. the diarrhea in colitis may primarily be due to the large number of giant migrating contractions in the middle and the distal colon.
timing of corticosteroid treatment. effect of lung lymph dynamics in air injury in awake sheep. in paired experiments, we studied the effects of high-dose methylprednisolone on the acute pulmonary injury caused by 4 h of venous air embolization in 19 chronically instrumented, unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas. we compared the effect of methylprednisolone (30 mg/kg intravenous bolus) given before embolization, early (1 h) in the course of embolization, late (3 h) in the course of embolization, or after embolization (at the beginning of the recovery period). we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and lymph dynamics. in six sheep we also fixed lung tissue for semiquantitative histology, and in some we measured leukocyte concentrations in blood and in pulmonary lymph. methylprednisolone did not significantly affect pulmonary hemodynamics but it largely prevented lung injury when it was given before embolization. it also lessened the degree of lung injury when it was given during embolization, although this effect became less marked as treatment was delayed. methylprednisolone had no effect on lung injury when given after embolization was completed (4 h). we found fewer leukocytes attached to air emboli and fewer endothelial cell gaps in the lungs of sheep given methylprednisolone as prophylaxis. leukocyte counts were lower in lung lymph and higher in the circulating blood of methylprednisolone-treated sheep. we conclude that methylprednisolone has a preventive effect on air embolism lung injury, such that its effect is greater when given earlier during the development of injury.
a successful treatment of an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula by percutaneous embolization. a 37-year-old woman patient, known to have poorly controlled arterial hypertension that was diagnosed following a cerebrovascular accident at the age of 15 years, was referred to our outpatient clinic for investigation in 1987. an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed by selective renal angiography. embolization of the fistula was performed using four 15-mm/5-cm coils, which induced thrombosis and obstructed the fistula. the vascularization of the affected kidney improved immediately. during the following 4 months, the antihypertensive treatment was stopped gradually, and the patient remained normotensive. this is an unusual case of a large intrarenal arteriovenous fistula, whose etiology was not clear, that was successfully treated by percutaneous embolization.
ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors are characterized by trisomy 12. eleven ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors including 1 thecoma, 2 fibromas, 6 fibrothecomas, and 2 granulosa cell tumors, were karyotyped after direct harvest and/or short-term tissue culture. bilateral fibrothecomas from one patient appeared to lack cytogenetic aberrations: the remaining nine tumors were characterized by trisomy for chromosome 12. cytogenetic aberrations in the two granulosa cell tumors were much less complex than those described previously in undifferentiated carcinomas; accordingly cytogenetic analyses might be useful in distinguishing these categories. the consistent occurrence of trisomy 12 in different varieties of granulosa-stromal cell tumors suggests a common mechanism of oncogenesis within this diverse group of neoplasms. that mechanism probably involves promotion of low-grade, orderly cell proliferation.
the management of pseudomyxoma peritonei. the management of nine patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei was reviewed. aggressive surgical resection of tumor is the standard of treatment, with many patients requiring multiple laparotomies. chemotherapy, including the use of cisplatin is not effective. long-term nutritional support provides a better quality of survival for select patients.
surgical removal of subfoveal neovascularization in the presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome. we treated two patients with presumed ocular histoplasmosis, subfoveal neovascular membranes, and progressive visual acuity loss to 20/400. vitreoretinal surgical techniques were used to remove the subfoveal membranes. visual acuity returned to 20/20 with seven months of follow-up in one patient (case 1) and to 20/40 with three months of follow-up in the other patient (case 2). no evidence of persistent or current subretinal neovascular membranes in either patient have been noted. these preliminary results suggest that vitreoretinal surgical techniques may be successful in mechanically removing subfoveal neovascular membranes with preservation of overlying neurosensory retina and thus preservation of central visual acuity.
multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma: report of a case with anogenital pruritus at presentation. a case of multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma of the perianal skin and vulva in a 79-year-old woman is presented, and the embryologic basis for the multicentricity is discussed. histologically, cloacogenic carcinoma can be differentiated from other small cell neoplasms that affect the area. cloacogenic carcinoma should be considered a rare cause of anogenital pruritus. it is important to perform an early biopsy of anogenital lesions that do not respond to conventional therapy.
a comparative evaluation of the safety and efficacy of cefotetan and cefoxitin in surgical prophylaxis. safety and efficacy were evaluated and compared retrospectively in 77 patients who received cefotetan (ctn) and 51 patients who received cefoxitin (cfx) for surgical prophylaxis. both groups were similar with respect to age and gender. surgical procedures were similar between groups (e.g., obstetric/gynecologic, renal transplant, colon, exploratory laparotomy, gastroduodenal, hernia repair). postoperative infectious complications were more common in the ctn group (11.6 percent [9/77]) than in the cfx (7.8 percent [4/51]) group; however, this difference was not statistically significant. a higher incidence of wound infections was noted in the ctn group (5.2 percent [4/77]) than in the cfx group (2.0 percent [1/51]); this difference was also not significant. patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy were more likely to develop infectious complications when ctn was used for prophylaxis (p = 0.0001). clinically significant blood loss was not noted during surgery. elevations in prothrombin times (greater than 1 sec) occurred in 27.3 percent (3/11) of ctn and 11.1 percent (1/9) of cfx patients (not significant). except for the small subset of patients receiving concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, ctn appeared to be as safe and effective as cfx when used for surgical prophylaxis. although not statistically significant, the increased incidence of wound infections in the ctn-treated patients requires further study in a prospective randomized comparison.
high-dose chemoradiotherapy supported by marrow infusions for advanced neuroblastoma: a pediatric oncology group study [published erratum appears in j clin oncol 1991 jun;9(6):1094] we conducted a pilot protocol at seven pediatric oncology group (pog) institutions to examine the feasibility, toxicity, and efficacy of using a common regimen of high-dose chemoradiotherapy (hd ct/rt) supported by autologous or allogeneic marrow infusions in children with metastatic neuroblastoma (nbl) in first or second remission. during a 57-month period, we accrued 101 patients. we report here results for the 81 who completed treatment at least 2 years ago. the hd ct/rt regimen consisted of melphalan 60 mg/m2/d for three doses, and total body irradiation (tbi) either 1.5 gy (n = 27) or 2.0 gy (n = 54) twice daily for six doses. twenty-three patients also received irradiation consisting of 1.2 gy twice daily for 10 doses to persisting disease sites. seventy-four were given autologous and seven allogeneic marrow, 64 autologous marrows being purged immunomagnetically. fifty-four children were in first complete (cr) or partial (pr) remission and 27 in second cr or pr. as of october 1, 1990, follow-up was from 32 to 72 months. forty-seven of these 81 children relapsed, 10 died of complications, one of unknown cause, and 23 continue in remission, including 21 of the 54 treated in first remission, and 16 who completed treatment more than 3 years ago. the 2-year actuarial event-free survival (efs) probabilities are first cr (cr1) 32% (se 10%), first pr (pr1) 43% (se 9%), second cr (cr2) 33% (se 27%), and second pr (pr2) 5% (se 5%). probability of efs correlated with remission number (first better than second, p less than .001), with interval from diagnosis to hd ct/rt (greater than 9 months better than less than 9 months, p = .055), and with tbi dose (12 gy better than 9 gy, p = .031). these encouraging results may partly reflect selection for this treatment of patients with nbl who have a slower disease pace.
regulation of hla class ii molecule expressions by ifn-gamma. the signal transduction mechanism in glioblastoma cell lines. we examined the signal transduction mechanism responsible for the ifn-gamma-induced hla class ii molecule expressions on glioblastoma cell lines, t98g and a172. a series of experiments demonstrated that the activation of protein kinase c (pkc) is involved in the dr and dp molecule expressions on t98g cells. in addition to the activation of pkc, calcium influx appeared to be involved in the dr and dp molecule expressions on t98g. northern blot analyses with actinomycin d or cycloheximide revealed that these second messengers induce the transcription of dra and b and dpa and b genes without de novo protein synthesis. furthermore, we examined the region of the dpb gene that is responsible for ifn-gamma-induced gene transcription by gene transfer of a series of 5' and 3' deletion mutants in which the upstream region of the dpb was linked to a reporter gene, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase. by using these deletion mutants, it appeared that the region between -152 and -126 bp contains a critical ifn-gamma-responsive element. taken together, these results suggest that ifn-gamma activates pkc and stimulates calcium influx, resulting in the induction of transcription of dra and b and dpa and b genes without de novo protein synthesis. in dpb gene, we speculate that preexiting protein(s) phosphorylated by pkc in the presence of ca2+ might directly bind or indirectly interact with the region between -152 and -126 bp of the upstream sequence, leading to the induction of the transcription (possibly in concert with other nuclear protein(s) bound to the promoter sequences).
alcohol and pyruvate cardioplegia. twenty-four-hour in situ preservation of hamster hearts. isolated hamster hearts were first perfused with a normal krebs-henseleit medium to demonstrate comparable viability of hearts before perfusing and storing them for 24 hours in one of three solutions. the three solutions were a physiologic saline with pyruvate as the substrate and 4% alcohol to arrest the heart (group 1), a standard cardioplegic solution (group 2), and an alcohol-free physiologic saline with pyruvate as the substrate (group 3). recovery in terms of rate/pressure product and oxygen consumption after 30 minutes of reperfusion was 81% and 93%, respectively, for group 1, 13% and 32% for group 2, and 70% and 72% for group 3. percent of physiologic recovery was not related to recovery of adenosine triphosphate. the adenosine triphosphate level returned to approximately 40% control level in all three groups, and in all three groups inorganic phosphate remained approximately 320% over control level after 30 minutes of reperfusion. phosphocreatine level significantly higher in groups 1 and 3 than in group 2, as a result of improved oxygen consumption. intracellular ph, determined by phosphorous 31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, was physiologic in groups 1 and 3 but alkaline in group 2. this alkalinity may have been caused by leaky membranes. pyruvate helped preserve mitochondrial function during depressed oxygen delivery, such as was seen during the 24-hour storage period. four percent alcohol arrested the heart; combined with pyruvate plus alcohol solution were better than a standard cardioplegic solution for maintaining functional capability.
extrahepatic metabolism of morphine occurs in humans. the pharmacokinetics of morphine was studied in six patients in whom a radiologic localization of an insulinoma was to be performed under general anesthesia. sampling was done in the peripheral artery, the mesenteric vein in five of the six patients, the hepatic vein, and the peripheral vein, as well as in urine. hepatic blood flow was estimated by an indocyanine green infusion technique at the end of the radiologic procedure. morphine terminal half-life was 92 +/- 9 minutes, total body clearance was 1260 ml.min-1, and the hepatic extraction ratio was 0.65 +/- 0.11. no concentration gradient was observed between the artery and the superior mesenteric vein, showing that no gut wall metabolism of morphine occurred. the total body clearance exceeded the hepatic clearance by 38%. it was concluded that the extrahepatic extraintestinal clearance of morphine probably occurred through the kidney.
through-knee amputation in high-risk patients with vascular disease: indications, complications and rehabilitation. during a 10-year period 104 patients (mean age 72 years) had 106 through-knee amputations. indications for surgery were: limb gangrene, 67 (64 per cent); ischaemic ulceration, 22 (21 per cent); rest pain, 9; knee contractures, 6. thirty patients had had previous unsuccessful vascular reconstructive surgery and five had had a failed femoral embolectomy. the through-knee disarticulation used lateral skin flaps. the mortality was 21 (20 per cent). of the 83 survivors, 59 (71 per cent) underwent uncomplicated primary wound healing; 36 (43 per cent) of the survivors were unsuitable for rehabilitation on a prosthesis. the remaining 47 (57 per cent) were walking before discharge 30-130 days (mean 68 days) after amputation. through-knee amputation is a rapid, relatively bloodless, amputation and is a useful debridement procedure. the many surgical and functional advantages, in conjunction with the recent reports of better rehabilitation compared with the above-knee or gritti-stokes amputation, suggests that the through-knee amputation deserves greater consideration.
multiplexing studies of effects of rapid atrial pacing on the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter in canine pericarditis model. background. we report that rapid atrial pacing interrupts atrial flutter when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse is blocked in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit. to characterize the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter and rapid pacing, we studied 11 episodes of induced atrial flutter, mean cycle length 157 +/- 20 msec, in eight dogs with sterile pericarditis. methods and results. atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the interruption of atrial flutter by rapid atrial pacing, mean cycle length 139 +/- 21 msec. areas of slow conduction during atrial flutter were demonstrated at one to three sites in the reentry circuit. after rapid pacing captured the reentry circuit, one area of slow conduction either disappeared (10 episodes) or the degree of slow conduction in an area of slow conduction decreased (one episode). both changes were in association with activation of the region by a wave front from the pacing impulse that arrived from a direction different than that during the induced atrial flutter. interruption of atrial flutter during rapid pacing occurred when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse blocked in an area of slow conduction that had either newly evolved during rapid pacing (seven episodes) or that was previously present (four episodes). conclusions. areas of slow conduction present during atrial flutter and rapid pacing of atrial flutter are functional and depend on both the atrial rate and the direction of the circulating wave fronts. interruption of atrial flutter by rapid pacing results from block of the orthodromic wave front of the pacing impulse in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit.
the recombinant immunotoxin anti-tac(fv)-pseudomonas exotoxin 40 is cytotoxic toward peripheral blood malignant cells from patients with adult t-cell leukemia. anti-tac(fv)-pe40 is a recombinant single-chain immunotoxin containing the heavy and light variable regions of the anti-tac monoclonal antibody fused to a mutant form of pseudomonas exotoxin (pe). anti-tac binds to the p55 subunit of the human interleukin 2 (il-2) receptor, and anti-tac(fv)-pe40 kills human or monkey cell lines that contain either the intact il-2 receptor or its p55 subunit alone. to assess the usefulness of anti-tac(fv)-pe40 in treatment of il-2 receptor-positive leukemia, we tested peripheral blood mononuclear cells from six patients with adult t-cell leukemia. in each of the six patients, anti-tac(fv)-pe40 was extremely cytotoxic to the malignant cells. metabolic activity and sensitivity of the fresh cells improved when a small amount of il-2 (10 units per ml) was present during incubation. the toxin concentration necessary to inhibit protein synthesis by 50% after 16-hr incubation of cells with immunotoxin varied from 1.6 to 16 ng/ml (2.5-25 x 10(-11) m). in every case, binding was by means of the tac antigen because anti-tac(fv)-pe40 cytotoxicity was prevented by adding excess anti-tac antibody. moreover, anti-tac alone or an inactive mutant of anti-tac(fv)-pe40 without adp-ribosylation activity had very little cytotoxic activity. peripheral blood mononuclear cells from normal controls, from a patient with tac-negative leukemia, and from adult t-cell leukemia patients without significant peripheral blood involvement were not sensitive to anti-tac(fv)-pe40. these results indicate that anti-tac(fv)-pe40 is a potent cytotoxin against adult t-cell leukemia cells in vitro and warrants clinical testing.
sequential or fixed sample trial design? a case study by stochastic simulation. the properties of wilcoxon's rank sum test for fixed sample size and a wilcoxon-type two-sample sequential test have been illustrated and compared by means of stochastic simulation. data from a real fixed sample trial have been used, both for resampling from the original data, and for construction of an idealized theoretical distribution. the sequential and the fixed sample test obtain equal power, but the sequential test mostly includes considerably fewer patients to reach a conclusion, i.e. the mean and median number of patients included are both much lower than the fixed sample size. under the hypotheses only a small fraction of the simulation runs exceed the fixed sample size. these findings exemplify results obtained in theoretical analyses and simulation studies covering a wide range of distributions. in our opinion sequential tests have obvious advantages and are in many cases better alternatives than fixed sample tests in clinical trials.
intracranial arachnoid cysts in children. a comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting. the best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy. recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent. the cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported. five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention. of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration, 10 (67%) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal (eight patients) or ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunting (one patient), or revision of a vp shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration (one patient). two other patients with existing vp shunts required no further procedures. thus, only three (20%) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years. the 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively; shunt revision has been necessary in six (30%) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence. cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision, but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable. in all locations, though, shunting was more successful than fenestration. it is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-vp shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations, including those in the middle cranial fossa.
antiepileptic drug intoxication: factors and their significance. a retrospective chart review (1979-1985) was performed to identify probable causes of intoxication with antiepileptic drugs (aeds). we identified 141 patients meeting clinical and laboratory criteria for intoxication and 17 with clinical signs but with serum concentrations within the therapeutic range. the majority were epileptic patients; almost half were treated with monotherapy, most with phenytoin (pht). the causes of intoxication in the epileptic patients were iatrogenic (41%), inappropriate dose self-adjustment (34%), suicide attempt (18%), inappropriate caretaker dose adjustment (9%), accidental ingestion (8%), unrecognized drug interaction (6%), and association with intercurrent illness (2%). twenty-two patients had more than one probable cause of intoxication. in nonepileptic patients the causes were suicide attempt (50%), accidental ingestion (27%), and iatrogenic (23%). most patients had signs of ocularmotor and vestibulocerebellar dysfunction. rarely described manifestations of intoxication, such as seizures or choreoathethosis, were observed in a few patients. the average hospital stay was 6.9 days; there was no mortality, and all patients recovered fully. we conclude that aed intoxication is a major but preventable cause of morbidity and that suicide attempts are an important and underrecognized contributor in both epileptic and non-epileptic patients.
vascular and calcemic effects of plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats. circulating substances that increase intracellular calcium, and other circulating substances that increase blood pressure, have been described in hypertensive animals and humans. in this study, we report the existence of a factor of the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats that does both. these effects were dose-dependent, and the time course for such effects was correlated with the time course for potentiation of pressor agents by the plasma. in addition, the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats was found to inhibit the depressor effects of parathyroid hormone. our results confirm the presence of a circulating hypertensive factor in the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats, which may act by increasing calcium uptake in vascular smooth muscle. these findings may also help explain the secondary increase in parathyroid hormone noted in some forms of human and experimental hypertension.
non-drug related asystole associated with anaesthetic induction. a patient is presented where routine venepuncture associated with anaesthetic induction resulted in bradycardia and asystole. the case highlights the need for special caution with, and ecg monitoring throughout induction for, patients with a history of syncope. it also demonstrates the need for caution when attributing cardiovascular events during induction to the effect of the induction agents used.
effect of the topical anesthetic emla on the efficacy of pulsed dye laser treatment of port-wine stains. emla cream (eutectic mixture of local anesthetics) is a new topical anesthetic composed of 25 mg lidocaine and 25 mg prilocaine in an oil-in-water emulsion cream. it has been found to be very effective for local anesthesia prior to venepuncture, minor surgical procedures, and pulsed dye laser (pdl) therapy for port-wine stains (pws) in children. however, since emla may cause vasoconstriction of cutaneous vessels, we tried to determine whether pretreatment with emla decreases the efficacy of subsequent pdl treatment. we report eight patients between the ages of 4 and 32 years with pws who received two test site treatments prior to pdl treatment. one site was pretreated with emla cream under occlusion for 60 minutes and then left unoccluded for 15 minutes prior to pdl test treatment. the other site, in the same area of the pws and patient's body, was not pretreated with emla. the test sites were compared 6-8 weeks later to determine whether emla decreased the degree of lightening of the pws compared to the non-emla-treated site. we conclude that emla is an effective topical anesthetic for pdl treatment of pws and does not adversely affect the efficacy of the treatment.
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in infantile cholestasis. the difficulty of distinguishing surgically correctable causes of conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia in infants from other causes means that some infants may undergo laparotomy and intraoperative cholangiography unnecessarily, and others may be referred for surgery too late. in an attempt to improve the diagnostic accuracy in infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia when standard methods produced equivocal results, we have been using prototype paediatric duodenoscopes (pjf 7.5 and xpjf 8.0; olympus) to perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp). from 159 infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia, 11 were referred for ercp, which was performed in nine. in four in whom bile ducts were definitely visualised laparotomy was avoided. operative cholangiography confirmed patent bile ducts in one in whom visualisation had been uncertain. three of four in whom bile ducts were not seen had extrahepatic biliary atresia. visible bile drainage in the fourth excluded atresia. no major complications ensued but there was radiological evidence of gall bladder perforation in one (common hepatic duct block) and overinflation with air was a problem until finer cannulae (wilson-cook) were introduced. in appropriately selected patients with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia, ercp with paediatric duodenoscopes in experienced hands may provide useful diagnostic information.
intrinsic vasodilation protects wistar kyoto rats from progressive glomerulosclerosis after unilateral nephrectomy. genetically determined differences in functional and structural determinants that govern the development of progressive glomerulosclerosis (gs) were studied in aging sham-operated or unilaterally nephrectomized male rats of two strains. wistar rats showed an increase of proteinuria and gs with age, which was enhanced by unilateral nephrectomy (un). in contrast, intact and un wistar kyoto rats did not show an increase of proteinuria with age and 7 months after un, no gs was seen in these rats. systemic blood pressure was comparable in both strains and was not affected by un. functional studies in a separate group of rats 1 month after un showed an identical increase in glomerular filtration rate in both strains as compared with sham-operated controls. the wistar rats did not show an effect of un on renal plasma flow, and consequently, there was an increase in filtration fraction, in contrast to wistar kyoto rats, which showed an increase in renal plasma flow with an unchanged filtration fraction. glomerular volume was increased in both strains at 1 month and 7 months after un. mesangial expansion was not observed at 1 month after un in either strain, which indicates that this is not a decisive factor in the development of gs. these data indicate that the genetically determined susceptibility to the development of gs in these two rat strains may be related to the degree of vasoconstriction, whereas glomerular volume expansion per se does not lead to gs but can well be a consequence of hyperfiltration. these studies are concordant with previous studies that revealed the role of hemodynamics in the pathogenesis of gs irrespective of glomerular expansion.
renal artery stent placement with use of the wallstent endoprosthesis. the wallstent endoprosthesis was placed in 12 renal arteries of 11 patients; a total of 15 stents were placed. indications for placement were restenosis after dilation and insufficient result after dilation. in two patients, malpositioning of the stent required placement of a second stent. complications included a case of massive cholesterol embolization and a case of unexplained transient hematuria, proteinuria, and deterioration of renal function. at repeat angiography of seven renal arteries after stent placement, one was occluded and required thrombolysis and dilation. another showed restenosis due to shortening of the stent and required redilation and, later, placement of another stent. this stent became occluded after 1 month. in this patient and in three other cases, angiography disclosed tissue buildup in the stent but without significant stenosis after this short-term follow-up. after a clinical follow-up of 6.7 months +/- 3.4 in 10 patients treated for hypertension, three were cured, four were improved, and three were unchanged when blood pressure levels before stent placement were compared with those obtained after stent placement.
iron and the liver. iron is essential for life, but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal. the liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload, especially when (as in primary hemochromatosis) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes. iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including: (1) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin, (2) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin, (3) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight, non-protein bound forms of iron, and (4) uptake of heme from heme-albumin, heme-hemopexin, or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes. normally, pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes. iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin, an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin. iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mrna and represses transcription of dna for transferrin and transferrin receptors. the major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are: (1) fibrosis and cirrhosis, (2) porphyria cutanea tarda, and (3) hepatocellular carcinoma. although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown, iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability. vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation.
incidence and clinical significance of st segment elevation after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. to study the incidence and clinical significance of postshock st segment elevations, we recorded 12-lead ecgs immediately after transthoracic direct-current electrical cardioversion in 146 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. among 23 patients (19%), acute st segment elevations amounted to 1.4 +/- 0.8 mv (mean +/- sd) and occurred after 243 +/- 114 joules (cumulative dose) in the precordial leads only in 14, concomitantly in precordial and inferior leads in two, and in the precordial and anterolateral leads in seven. they normalized within 1.5 +/- 0.8 minutes. occurrence of st segment elevation was related to previous pericardiotomy (p less than 0.00001) and age (p = 0.01). estimation of myocardial enzyme release did not show evidence of myocardial damage. patients with st segment elevations had a lower conversion rate (48% versus 76%, p = 0.005). long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm was also diminished (35% versus 59%, p = 0.03). results of this study show that postcardioversion st segment elevation occurs predominantly in postpericardiotomy patients and may be associated with an unfavorable arrhythmia prognosis.
rehabilitation in brain disorders. 3. intervention strategies. this self-directed learning module highlights advances in the principles of management of brain disorders. it is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in brain disorders for the self-directed medical knowledge program study guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. the chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. this article covers rehabilitation philosophy, management of cognitive remediation, and behavioral management, with attention to communication disorders, social factors, vocational/educational/avocational issues, treatment of motor deficits, dysphagia, sensory dysfunction, sexual dysfunction, and substance abuse. advances that are covered in this section include pharmacologic and rehabilitative interventions for acute, chronic, and progressive brain injuries and diseases. the learner is directed to articles 1, 2, and 4 in this chapter for supporting information.
the role of prostanoids in the production of acute acalculous cholecystitis by platelet-activating factor. gallbladder tissue from patients with acute acalculous cholecystitis contains increased amounts of prostanoids when compared to normal gallbladder tissue. platelet-activating factor (paf) is a potent stimulus of eicosanoid formation. it has been implicated as a mediator of acute inflammatory processes and systemic responses to shock. in this study the role of paf in acute acalculous cholecystitis was evaluated. anesthetized cats underwent gallbladder perfusion with a physiologic buffer solution containing [14c]polyethylene glycol as a nonabsorbable tracer to quantitate mucosal water absorption. platelet-activating factor was infused into the hepatic artery for 2 hours. control experiments were performed when vehicle alone was infused. experiments also were performed when indomethacin was administered intravenously and when indomethacin and paf were administered. gallbladder mucosal absorption/secretion and perfusate and tissue prostaglandin e (pge) and 6 keto prostaglandin f1 alpha (6-keto pgf1 alpha) levels were evaluated. gallbladder inflammation was evaluated by beta-glucuronidase and myeloperoxidase tissue concentrations and by a histologic scoring system. platelet-activating factor eliminated gallbladder absorption and produced net fluid secretion associated with dose-related increases in perfusate pge concentrations and gallbladder tissue pge and 6 keto pgf1 alpha levels when compared to control values. platelet-activating factor produced significant inflammation in the gallbladder with increases in the histologic score of inflammation and tissue lysosomal enzyme activities. indomethacin significantly decreased the fluid secretion, prostanoid levels, and inflammation produced by paf. the results suggest that paf may induce acute gallbladder inflammation associated with systemic stress through a prostanoid-mediated mechanism.
peroxisomal disorders. although peroxisomes were once considered a vestige, their importance in cellular metabolism is clearly established by the many inherited diseases that have been described in the past two decades. unfortunately there is no definitive treatment for the various disorders, but based on the recognition of the biochemical abnormalities, prenatal testing and appropriate genetic counseling can be provided. it is essential for clinicians to be aware of this group of diseases, as diagnosis and further study of these patients are essential in understanding the basic etiologic mechanisms underlying these complex groups of disorders. clearly, there is much to be learned about the relationship between biochemical abnormalities and the phenotypic variability of the peroxisomal disorders.
management decisions in laryngeal carcinoma in situ. twenty-one patients with laryngeal carcinoma in situ (n = 12) or carcinoma in situ with microinvasion (n = 9) were treated with laser mucosal dissection of the vocal cords and/or superficial laser cordectomy. the normal architecture of the vocal cords was preserved because the depth of vaporization was usually superficial in these early cases. five patients had recurrence, new tumor, or persistence of abnormal tissue that required additional laser surgical treatments. with a follow-up range of 6 months to 4 years, all patients currently are free of laryngeal abnormality, and no patient has needed open laryngeal surgery or radiation therapy. transoral endoscopic laser resection of laryngeal carcinoma in situ with or without microinvasion should be the treatment of choice for these early lesions.
avascular necrosis of bone: a common serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. purpose: to describe the incidence, presentation, clinical course, and management of avascular necrosis of bone following bone marrow transplantation, and to identify risk factors related to its development and outcome. patients and methods: all patients developing avascular necrosis after transplantation between march 1974 and may 1988 were identified by means of the minnesota bone marrow transplant database and hospital records and included in analysis. of 902 consecutive patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation, 28 developed avascular necrosis of bone. results: twenty-eight of 642 allogeneic transplant recipients (10.4% by product limit estimate) developed avascular necrosis compared to zero of 260 autologous transplant recipients. symptoms developed 1 to 62 months (median 12 months) after transplantation. in the 28 patients a total of 91 joints were affected (mean 3.3 per patient, range one to eight joints). the hip joint was most often involved (64% of patients), followed by knee (61%), ankle (29%), shoulder (21%), and elbow (7%). initial standard radiographs were negative in 13 patients, while in nine patients, technetium-99 scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated changes of osteonecrosis before changes on routine radiographs. almost all patients had received steroid prophylaxis and therapy for graft-versus-host disease (gvhd). we observed a significant correlation between the total cumulative dose of steroids and number of joints involved (p less than 0.01). a multivariate analysis (allogeneic transplant patients only) identified acute or chronic gvhd requiring steroid therapy (p = 0.003), and increasing age (p = 0.002) as significant and independent risk factors. fourteen patients required surgery, including joint replacement in 11 patients. in six of six patients, hip core decompression failed to halt disease progression, and total hip arthroplasty was subsequently required. conclusion: avascular necrosis of bone is a frequent late complication of bone marrow transplantation, causing significant morbidity and often requiring surgery; diagnosis using conventional imaging techniques may be difficult and treatment remains inadequate.
magnetic resonance imaging and tomographic evaluation of occlusal appliance treatment for advanced internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint. this study evaluates the positional relationship of the disc and mandibular condyle in patients with late opening clicks treated with appliance therapy. a total of 30 joints (18 patients) were studied. twenty-seven of these 30 joints were treated with the appliance until the joints were silent to auscultation. the patients were then evaluated with axial corrected tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in the centric occlusion position and with their bite appliance (sved-type) in place. comparisons were made between condyle position in centric occlusion and with the appliance in place. magnetic resonance imaging was then used to evaluate disc positional changes. each imaging procedure was made in the same sagittal plane. only changes in condyle positioning could be identified. evidence of disc repositioning with the appliance in place was seen in only three mri examinations. the remaining 27 joints continued to exhibit disc displacement with various changes in disc morphology. it is concluded that the concept of "disc capture" is a clinical term only, and that such perceived clinical success should not lead to the assumption that an actual change in intra-articular anatomic relationships has occurred. joint noises may decrease because joint space is increased, allowing smoother condylar translation beyond disc surface irregularities and positional abnormalities.
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome). five patients with kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain, peripheral arterial aneurysms, digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction. as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery, which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent, the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy.
restoration of sinus rhythm during two consecutive pregnancies in a woman with congenital complete heart block. in a woman with congenital complete heart block atrioventricular conduction was normal during two successive pregnancies. pregnancy, labour, and delivery were uncomplicated on both occasions and complete heart block returned post partum.
perianal streptococcal cellulitis with penile involvement. perianal streptococcal cellulitis is described occurring in a 5-year-old boy. the condition also involved the penis and presented as a possible case of sexual abuse. the correct diagnosis was established by culturing beta-haemolytic streptococci group a from the penile and perianal skin.
the management of aneurysms and arterio-venous fistulae of the popliteal artery arising from war trauma. emphasis on sigmoid operative approach. between 1986-1988, 600 vascular cases arising from the iran-iraq conflict were dealt with within an 18 month period and 60 cases of popliteal artery and/or venous disruption were encountered presenting at variable times after injury. a policy of management between the forward and base hospital surgical teams was introduced, observing the following broad categorizations: (a) assessment/referral, (b) assessment/fasciotomy/referral, (c) immediate operation/referral for further operation/review/management. two types of incision were used to enter the popliteal fossa: (a) a medial incision and (b) a sigmoid posterior incision (which we now favor). the results of this strategy of management and operative technique (when compared with our previous experience within the same time frame) suggested an improved outcome. fifty-four out of 60 cases had a satisfactory operative result with below-knee amputation being required in only four cases and higher amputations in two others. no operative or postoperative deaths occurred. the implementation of this "vetting policy" at the front line appeared to reduce the number of amputations and assisted the clarification of management criteria in assessing limb viability at the forward hospital when a large number of casualties were being received. operative access using the sigmoid posterior incision was not associated with any complications, offered better exposure than the medial incision and was technically easier for the surgeon to perform.
prognostic indicators of the resolution of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and survival of the fetus. to delineate any possible prognostic indicators, we reviewed the ultrasonographic and nonmorphometric findings in 19 antenatally diagnosed cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis in which it was chosen to continue the pregnancy. thirteen fetuses died and six survived. of all parameters examined, including associated anomalies, abnormal karyotype, location of serous fluid, anemia, and possible cause of nonimmune hydrops fetalis, the most sensitive prognostic indicator was the real-time-directed m-mode echocardiographic measurement of the biventricular outer dimension in diastole. all fetuses with biventricular outer dimensions greater than 95% died, whereas all but one with normal biventricular outer dimensions had resolution of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and survived. this was highly significant (p less than 0.001) with the predictive value of a normal biventricular outer dimension being 86% and the predictive value of an enlarged biventricular outer dimension being 100%.
hormonal and enzymatic parameters of hepatic regeneration in patients undergoing major liver resections. thirteen patients who underwent 40% to 80% removal of their livers had blood samples drawn initially and daily on postoperative days 1 to 7. the enzyme marker of heightened polyamine metabolism, ornithine decarboxylase, and the indicator of dna synthesis, thymidine kinase, were measured. in addition, the hormones (insulin, glucagon, estradiol and androgen), which in animals are known to reflect and possibly modulate regeneration, were measured. changes in all these indices followed the same pattern as in rats, dogs and swine but at a slower rate. ornithine decarboxylase and estradiol increased within 24 hr, but thymidine kinase and insulin rises did not become statistically significant until 3 to 5 days. using these plasma or serum indices as surrogate measures of biochemical events in the liver itself, regeneration reached a maximum after 4 or 5 days. by computed tomography scan analysis, restoration of hepatic cell mass was not complete until 3 wk.
possible involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in undifferentiated sinonasal carcinoma. retinoblastoma tumor formation is initiated by the loss of function of both alleles of the rb-1 gene on chromosome 13. patients with the hereditary form of retinoblastoma carry a germ line mutation at one of the two homologous gene loci in all cells and have an increased risk for nonocular tumors (mainly osteosarcoma and other mesenchymal tumors) in later life. the authors studied a 38-year-old patient with sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma (snuc) who had been treated for bilateral retinoblastoma by enucleation (left eye) and irradiation (right eye), respectively. using molecular probes for the rb-1 gene and other loci on chromosome 13, the authors detected a deletion at the rb-1 locus in metastatic snuc cells that was not present in normal tissue. these findings indicate that somatic mutations at rb-1 locus may be involved in the formation or progression of ectodermal tumors.
pharmacokinetics and protein binding of cefpiramide in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. the pharmacokinetics of cefpiramide, a new cephalosporin, were investigated after a single 1 gm intravenous injection in 11 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and compared with those of 11 healthy subjects. in patients with cirrhosis the plasma elimination half-life was three times longer than that in normal subjects. the total plasma clearance was decreased significantly (p less than 0.001): 12.3 +/- 6.5 ml/min in patients and 25.6 +/- 4.6 ml/min in healthy volunteers, respectively. the urinary excretion of unchanged drug (percent of intravenous dose) for patients (69.8% +/- 29.9%) was statistically higher (p less than 0.01) than that for subjects (16.2% +/- 3.9%). the renal elimination became increasingly important with hepatic impairment. protein binding of cefpiramide was reduced significantly in the group with cirrhosis. the average unbound fraction was 10.4% +/- 9.5% in patients with cirrhosis and 1.9% +/- 0.3% in normal subjects (p less than 0.01). because the rate of elimination from plasma in patients is slower, the dosage regimen of cefpiramide would probably be modified in cirrhosis.
cognitive and behavioural impairment among elderly people in institutions providing different levels of care. objective: to compare the prevalence and degree of cognitive and behavioural impairment in elderly patients in institutions providing different levels of care. design: prevalence study. setting: a nursing home, a home for the aged and psychogeriatric wards in a provincial psychiatric hospital. patients: only subjects 65 years of age or older were eligible for inclusion. a random sample was selected comprising 25% of the residents in the nursing home and the home for the aged; of the 119 asked to participate 95 agreed (44 in the nursing home and 51 in the home for the aged). all 50 on the psychogeriatric wards agreed to participate. main outcome measures: the mini-mental state examination (mmse) and the kingston dementia rating scale (kdrs). results: an mmse score of less than 24 (cognitive impairment) was given to 37 (84%) of the residents in the nursing home, 43 (84%) of those in the home for the aged and 48 (96%) of the patients in the psychiatric hospital; the corresponding numbers for a kdrs score of more than 0 (cognitive impairment) were 41 (93%), 48 (94%) and 50 (100%). the seven patients receiving the highest level of care at the home for the aged (special care) had more behavioural problems than those in the psychiatric hospital did (p less than 0.001). conclusions: cognitive and behavioural impairment was widespread in the three institutions regardless of the level of care. when planning services and allocating resources government funding agencies should consider the degree and prevalence of such impairment among elderly people in institutions.
effect of race upon organ donation and recipient survival in liver transplantation. the effect of the race of the donor on organ donation and on the outcome of clinical liver transplantation has not been addressed previously. the aims of this study were to determine: (1) the number of organs donated by each of the major racial groups of the united states, (2) the outcome of transplantation of these organs across racial groups, and (3) the pattern of liver disease that required transplantation in each of these racial groups. a significantly higher proportion of organs were donated by white non-hispanic americans than either black or hispanic americans. there was no significant difference in survival when an organ was transplanted between black and white americans and vice versa. postnecrotic cirrhosis from a variety of causes was the most common indicator affecting black and white recipients, while primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis were uncommon in the black population. while the number of organs donated by blacks was low, it was, however, proportional to the number of black recipients in this study. reasons for the low rate of donation by the black and white hispanic population are discussed. it is concluded that race is not a criteria to be used in selection of donors for liver transplantation. educational programs addressing issues of organ donation and transplantation directed towards the black and hispanic populations are recommended.
cytogenetic analysis of a granulocytic sarcoma in a patient without systemic leukaemia. granulocytic sarcoma is a rare complication of leukaemia. occasionally it presents before the development of systemic leukaemia when diagnosis may be difficult. a case of granulocytic sarcoma occurring in a patient with no overt evidence of leukaemia, but in whom cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow showed a clonal t(12;13) translocation, is reported. cytogenetic analysis of tissues in this disease may indicate evidence of systemic disease before overt morphological changes.
impedance tympanometry and acoustic reflectometry at myringotomy [published erratum appears in pediatrics 1991 jun;87(6):945] a total of 220 ears undergoing myringotomy and pressure-equalizing tube placement were studied with impedance tympanometry and acoustic reflectometry in a direct comparison for detection of middle-ear effusion. impedance tympanometry and acoustic reflectometry were equally accurate, detecting the presence or absence of middle-ear effusion in 73% and 72% of ears, respectively. the presence of effusion in ears with tympanographic patterns other than type a and type b was not consistently and reliably predicted. the higher sensitivity of impedance tympanometry (90%) compared with that for acoustic reflectometry (58%) contrasted with the opposite findings for specificities (54% vs 88%). it is concluded that impedance tympanometry and acoustic reflectometry measure different events at the tympanic membrane and their utility lies in the fact that they complement each other. these instruments can aid the experienced otoscopist in confirming a clinical impression and assist the less experienced clinician in validating or improving otoscopic skills.
an angiographic technique for three-dimensional determination of arterial supply patterns in cadaver soft tissue. a method for arterial tree mapping that can be used in cadaver soft tissue is presented. in situ angiograms and photographs are supplemented with profile angiograms of relatively narrow bands of tissue from the removed specimen. the described method was better suited for mapping the course and supply patterns of a soft-tissue arterial network than either in situ angiograms or dissection. while practical problems were encountered with most of the solutions used for providing radiopacity or structural support to the vessels, pure barium sulfate was found to be suitable because it filled the vascular tree to the capillary level without leakage during excision of the specimen.
risk factors for cancer of the tongue in uruguay. from 1987 to 1989, a hospital-based case-control study of cancer of the tongue was conducted in montevideo, uruguay, as part of a large study to investigate a number of risk factors for cancer of the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx. the study involved interviews with 57 cases and 353 controls and was restricted to men. relative risks (rr) associated with tobacco smoking, alcohol drinking, and selected dietary items were obtained by unconditional logistic-regression analysis. users of black tobacco had a rr fourfold higher than users of blond tobacco, and heavy drinkers of alcohol had a rr of 11.6. infrequent consumption of vegetables was associated with a significant rr of 5.3, and heavy drinkers of the local infusion "mate" had a rr of 2.5. it was concluded that black tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking were the strongest risk factors for cancer of the tongue in uruguay. their effects combine according to a multiplicative model. also, infrequent vegetable intake and mate ingestion contribute to the risk of cancer of the tongue.
metastasizing pleomorphic adenoma of the nasal septum. pleomorphic adenoma is the most common benign tumor of glandular tissue occurring in the head and neck region. there have been several reports of metastasis of this benign-appearing tumor from the salivary glands to distant sites, suggesting hematogenous spread and implantation. although occurrence of pleomorphic adenoma on the nasal septum has been described, to our knowledge this is the first reported case of recurrent septal pleomorphic adenoma with histologically benign tissue in an enlarged metastatic ipsilateral submandibular lymph node, suggesting lymphatic spread. the literature concerning the subject is reviewed. wide septal excision and modified neck dissection is the recommended treatment.
long survival and prognostic factors in hepatocellular carcinoma. we studied survival and prognostic factors in all cases of hepatocellular carcinoma seen at a midwestern teaching hospital from 1947 through 1986. of the 70 cases, 56 were diagnosed during life and 14 at autopsy. there were 47 males and 23 females with age at diagnosis ranging from 14 to 88. median survival for the 56 patients diagnosed during life was 106 days. only 11 patients lived longer than one year. two patients were long survivors and presumed cured, one living 27 years after diagnosis and surgical treatment and the other 19 years. cox regression model showed young age at diagnosis and low stage of disease at diagnosis to be significant predictors of long survival. white patients survived nearly twice as long as black patients but the difference was not significant. gender and year of diagnosis did not appear to be important determinants of survival. pathologic material was still available for one of the two long survivors and the histology was that of fibrolamellar carcinoma of young adults.
increase in skin-flap survival by the vasoactive drug buflomedil. the effect of buflomedil to protect skin tissue from ischemia and necrosis was studied in random cutaneous flaps. measurements were performed by intravital microscopy on the microcirculatory level of capillary perfusion in a flap model in the hairless mouse. in 30 hairless mice, single-pedicle flaps measuring 6 x 16 mm were raised perpendicular to the spine of the animal. this flap develops a reliable amount of necrosis at its distal edge over a period of 7 days. a group of 10 mice received intravenous injections of buflomedil in doses of 3 mg/kg per day diluted in 0.1 ml normal saline beginning 4 hours before flap elevation and for 6 consecutive days postoperatively. in addition, 10 further animals received the same treatment except that it was started 5 minutes after flap elevation. in 10 mice serving as controls, normal saline in equal volumes as in the experimental groups was applied. by means of intravital microscopy, functional vessel density (fvd) was determined in 2.5-mm increments from the flap's base to its distal edge at 1, 6, and 24 hours after elevation. skin-flap survival was quantified by measuring the necrotic area on day 7 by means of digital planimetry. functional vessel density was preserved in the distal flap of animals pretreated with buflomedil, revealing a higher functional vessel density at 10.0 mm (p less than 0.01), 12.5 mm (p less than 0.05), and 15.0 mm (p less than 0.001) from the flap's base as compared with controls.
the role of protein kinase c and calcium in the regulation of norepinephrine release from the vascular adrenergic neurons in hypertension. this study was designed to investigate the role of protein kinase c and calcium in vascular adrenergic transmission in hypertension. in perfused mesenteric vasculatures of spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr, 7 to 10 weeks old) and age-matched wistar-kyoto rats (wky), we have examined the effects of the protein kinase c inhibitor h-7 on endogenous norepinephrine release and vascular responsiveness during nerve stimulation. endogenous norepinephrine release and pressor responses during periarterial nerve stimulation were significantly greater in shr than in wky. the protein kinase c inhibitor h-7 inhibited the stimulation-induced norepinephrine release and pressor responses in a dose-dependent manner. the magnitude of these suppressive responses were more pronounced in shr than in wky. calcium removal from extracellular fluid also reduced the norepinephrine release more strongly in shr than in wky. these results demonstrate that the regulation of norepinephrine release might be more dependent on protein kinase c and calcium in the blood vessels of shr, which could contribute, at least partially, to the pathogenesis of this form of hypertension.
tarsal tunnel syndrome in athletes. case reports and literature review. tarsal tunnel syndrome is being seen in increasing frequency in the athletic population, especially in the running athlete. the sports medicine physician must be cognizant of this entity, including proper diagnostic testing and management.
response to diet and cholestyramine in a patient with sitosterolemia. in this report, an 11-year-old boy with diffuse tendinous and tuberous xanthomatosis and a plasma sterol concentration of 555 mg/dl, consisting primarily of cholesterol, is described. three months after changing from an unrestricted diet to a cholesterol-lowering diet, his plasma sterol concentration decreased to 221 mg/dl. because of the degree and rapidity of his response to diet, sitosterolemia was suspected. according to results of capillary gas-liquid chromatography of his plasma sterols, there was a sitosterol concentration of 31.3 mg/dl (normal less than 1.0 mg/dl), establishing the diagnosis of sitosterolemia. addition of cholestyramine therapy (8 g/d) to a low sterol diet further lowered his plasma sterol concentration to 173 mg/dl and led to complete regression of all tuberous xanthomata. tendinous xanthomata regressed at a slower rate. these findings show that the diagnosis of sitosterolemia should be suspected in severely hypercholesterolemic children (total cholesterol greater than 400 mg/dl) whose plasma cholesterol level is highly responsive to dietary manipulation. the rapid and sustained lowering of plasma cholesterol and regression of xanthomata after treatment with diet and cholestyramine suggest that sitosterolemia is a treatable cause of premature atherosclerosis.
inter-arytenoid glottic bar following intubation. inter-arytenoid glottic bar is a rare complication of prolonged endotracheal intubation. we present two such cases and their treatment. the aetiology of this complication is multifactorial and involves local factors--local trauma, movement of the endotracheal tube within the larynx, infection, and anatomical influences--together with systemic factors such as in our two cases. the relative importance of these factors is discussed. a comment is also made on the use of a pre-operative topogram and the importance of an ent assessment in patients with airway problems following prolonged intubation.
cerebral palsy: why we must plan for survival. the survival of children in the south east thames region, born between 1970 and 1979 and diagnosed as having some form of cerebral palsy was investigated. of the 732 children studied, 651 (90%) are still alive, and hence cerebral palsy must be regarded as a condition with which people live rather than a condition of which they die. survival varies considerably among the different diagnostic groups: those suffering from spasic quadriplegia, dyskinetic and 'mixed' cerebral palsy are most severely affected. our evidence suggests that, though immobility and severe mental subnormality are the strongest predictors of mortality in children with cerebral palsy, the majority of even the most severely affected patients survive to adulthood. it is therefore appropriate to plan for their survival by funding and evaluating programmes to maximise health, independence, and quality of life.
malignant glandular triton tumor. a case of left brachial plexus-related malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor showing neoplastic, glandular, and rhabdomyoblastic elements in a 39-year-old chinese man is reported. the authors suggested that this tumor be termed a malignant glandular triton tumor in view of the presence of the adenocarcinomatous component. the patient had extensive local recurrence comprising mainly the schwann spindle cells within a year after complete piecemeal removal and died 15 months later after the initial presentation. the natural behavior of this tumor, as in other reported cases of malignant triton tumor, is extremely aggressive, unlike malignant schwannoma or glandular malignant schwannoma. the histogenesis of this tumor is likely to be from primitive neural crest cells, schwann's cell precursors, or metaplastic malignant schwann's cells.
phenotypic heterogeneity in osteogenesis imperfecta: the mildly affected mother of a proband with a lethal variant has the same mutation substituting cysteine for alpha 1-glycine 904 in a type i procollagen gene (col1a1). a proband with a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta (oi) has been shown to have, in one allele in a gene for type i procollagen (col1a1), a single base mutation that converted the codon for alpha 1-glycine 904 to a codon for cysteine. the mutation caused the synthesis of type i procollagen that was posttranslationally overmodified, secreted at a decreased rate, and had a decreased thermal stability. the results here demonstrate that the proband's mother had the same single base mutation as the proband. the mother had no fractures and no signs of oi except for short stature, slightly blue sclerae, and mild frontal bossing. as a child, however, she had the triangular facies frequently seen in many patients with oi. on repeated subculturing, the proband's fibroblasts grew more slowly than the mother's, but they continued to synthesize large amounts of the mutated procollagen in passages 7-14. in contrast, the mother's fibroblasts synthesized decreasing amounts of the mutated procollagen after passage 11. also, the relative amount of the mutated allele in the mother's fibroblasts decreased with passage number. in addition, the ratio of the mutated allele to the normal allele in leukocyte dna from the mother was half the value in fibroblast dna from the proband. the simplest interpretation of the data is that the mother was mildly affected because she was a mosaic for the mutation that produced a lethal phenotype in one of her three children.
myotonic heart disease: a clinical follow-up. we followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years. two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation, 6 developed a new bundle branch block, 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker, and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening qrs interval had a sudden death. most patients had predictable, gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system. we recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening qrs interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ecgs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker.
numb chin syndrome secondary to burkitt's cell acute leukemia. we describe a case of burkitt's cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia presenting with the bilateral numb chin syndrome as the initial symptom of the disease. postmortem study of the trigeminal nerve showed heavy infiltrations of leukemic cells and destruction of axon and myelin by leukemic cells in the mandibular nerve.
mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma in diffuse epithelial ingrowth treated by block-excision. we treated a 40-year-old man with an acute, unilateral, open-angle glaucoma caused by a gelatinous translucent material in the anterior chamber. a clinical diagnosis of mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma caused by diffuse epithelial ingrowth after ocular trauma one year earlier was suspected, but a primary or secondary ciliary body or iris neoplasm could not be ruled out. a curative 9-mm block-excision was performed. six years later, intraocular pressure was normal, and the visual function was unchanged. light and electron microscopy disclosed an island of diffuse columnar epithelium with numerous goblet cells on the iris surface and copious mucinous material extending into the trabecular mesh-work.
time to recurrence varies inversely with thickness in clinical stage 1 cutaneous melanoma. the thickness of a tumor has been identified as the principal prognostic factor in cutaneous malignant melanoma. however, time to recurrence has not conclusively been related to thickness. a retrospective study of 216 patients with a primary cutaneous malignant melanoma that recurred was conducted to clarify this relationship and investigate possible independent relationships between age at diagnosis and sex of patients to time to recurrence. the results of analysis of linear regression revealed an inverse linear relationship between thickness and time to recurrence (p less than 0.001). patients more than 50 years of age at the time of diagnosis were shown to relapse sooner than those less than 50 years of age (p = 0.014). sex was not a significant factor in predicting time to recurrence (p greater than 0.10). these results suggest that thickness of tumor provides an indication of time to recurrence in those patients destined to recur and stress the need for long term surveillance in patients with a history of malignant melanoma because of the possibility of late relapse even with thin lesions.
impaired production of tumor necrosis factor in breast cancer. spontaneous and lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced production of tumor necrosis factor (tnf) by peripheral blood macrophages was investigated in breast cancer. whereas spontaneous tnf production by macrophages derived from patients with breast cancer was comparable with the one found in healthy controls (p greater than 0.1), lps-stimulated macrophages derived from patients in the disease-free interval as well as with metastatic breast cancer were found to produce significantly lower amounts of tnf, as compared with macrophages derived from healthy control individuals (p less than 0.0005). however, the production of tnf did not significantly differ between the two patient populations (p greater than 0.05). the impairment of lps-induced tnf production did not depend upon such characteristics of the primary tumor as size, axillary lymph node and estrogen receptor status, or upon the fact of administration of adjuvant chemotherapy and, in patients with metastatic disease, hormone treatment. to further investigate cytokine production by macrophages, spontaneous and lps-induced interleukin-1 (il-1) production was investigated also. however, no difference was found between patients and controls concerning il-1 generation. the authors thus conclude that lps-induced tnf production was impaired in breast cancer independent of the presence of detectable metastatic disease, whereas il-1 production remained unimpaired.
desmopressin for diabetes insipidus, hemostatic disorders and enuresis. arginine vasopressin preparations have been used in the treatment of diabetes insipidus for many years. compared with older antidiuretic agents, the synthetic analog desmopressin is more potent, longer acting and easier to use. it is available for intravenous, subcutaneous and intranasal administration. desmopressin may be useful in the treatment of hemostatic disorders such as von willebrand's disease and hemophilia a. it has also been used for nocturnal enuresis. the vasopressor effects of arginine vasopressin preparations have been exploited for use as a temporizing measure in controlling acute gastrointestinal bleeding. side effects such as hyponatremia and water intoxication are uncommon when these drugs are used with proper precautions.
primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the ileum in an adult. we report a case of primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the ileum occurring in a 45-year-old man. the rhabdomyoblastic nature was immunohistochemically confirmed by positivity with anti-myoglobin and anti-striated actin antisera. we discuss the differential diagnosis with similar tumors. to our knowledge, ileal rhabdomyosarcomas have not been previously reported in adults.
total knee arthroplasty fixation. comparison of the early results of paired cemented versus uncemented porous coated anatomic knee prostheses. the results of 18 matched pairs of porous coated anatomic knee prostheses were studied to compare the early clinical and functional performance of cemented versus uncemented fixation with an average five-year follow-up period for both. the knee score improved from a preoperative average of 35 points to a postoperative average of 90 points in the cemented group, and from 38 points to 93 points in the uncemented group. in particular, the individual pain scores and the range-of-motion values were well matched at the three-, six-, and 12-month follow-up visits and showed a steady improvement. subjectively, all patients were pleased with the results of surgery; one-third preferred the cemented side, one-third preferred the uncemented side, and one-third found no difference in the performance of either knee. the clinical and functional performance of knee prostheses in patients who had one cemented knee and one uncemented knee were comparable and possibly unrelated to the type of fixation method.
paraileostomy hernia: a clinical and radiological study. forty-six patients who underwent colectomy with end ileostomy for ulcerative colitis (n = 33) or crohn's disease (n = 13) have been reviewed for paraileostomy hernia (pih) formation 1-16 years after surgery. pih developed in 13 of these patients (28 per cent) and was not related to the original disease or excessive weight gain. twenty-eight patients underwent limited computed tomography (ct) scanning of the stomal region. eight of these had a clinically detectable pih, which was demonstrated on ct. a further two patients had pih demonstrated on ct which was not detected by clinical examination. the rate of pih was similar where the stoma emerged lateral to the rectus abdominis muscle (six out of 16 patients, 37 per cent) to where the stoma emerged through the rectus (four out of 12 patients, 33 per cent). recurrence following operative repair of pih was common. pih occurs more frequently than previously supposed. ct can detect pih and may be useful in evaluating a patient with stoma-related symptoms for occult pih formation.
attitudes of major employers toward the employment of people with epilepsy: a 30-year study. beginning in 1956, major san francisco bay area employers were sampled at 10-year intervals for a 30-year period to assess attitudes toward the employment of epileptic workers. in this time, we documented a trend of sustained positive change that appears to validate the efforts of organizations that have focused on raising public awareness of this disorder.
isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening for short bowel syndrome. because of improvements in supportive care, many infants now survive massive intestinal loss and have short bowel syndrome. unfortunately, some survivors are left with an insufficient amount of intestine and cannot be weaned from total parenteral nutrition. an isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure was used to treat surgically two such infants with 25 centimeters of remaining small intestine and absent ileocecal valves. this surgical technique longitudinally divides the short, dilated small intestine into two smaller, parallel lumens that are anastomosed end to end. this procedure preserves all mucosa, prolongs transit time by doubling intestinal length and corrects the ineffective peristalsis by tapering the dilated intestine. the lengthening technique can be performed because of the anatomic division of the intestinal vasculature within two leaves of the mesentery. longitudinal division between the two leaves maintains vasculature to each side of the intestine. the isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure, as it was successfully applied to two infants, is described in detail.
effect of intravenous streptokinase on the relation between initial st-predicted size and final qrs-estimated size of acute myocardial infarcts. thrombolytic therapy has been documented to reduce acute myocardial infarct size. the previously established relation between initial st segment elevation and final electrocardiographic (ecg) myocardial infarct size in patients without coronary reperfusion might therefore be altered by thrombolytic therapy. the effect of intravenous streptokinase on this relation was therefore studied in 73 patients with initial acute myocardial infarction who had participated in the second international study of infarct survival (isis-2). patients who received streptokinase were considered as one group and patients who did not receive streptokinase as a control group. final myocardial infarct size, which was estimated from the qrs score, was predicted from the admission standard ecg by previously developed formulas based on st segment elevation. in the 40 control patients there was no change from st-predicted to final qrs-estimated infarct size (median 17.7% versus 18.3%; p = ns). in the 33 patients in the streptokinase group, there was a highly significant decrease from predicted to final myocardial infarct size (median 21.9% versus 16.2%; p less than 0.0002). this decrease was found for both anterior (median 23.7% versus 19.5%; p less than 0.03) and inferior (median 21.9% versus 12.0%; p = 0.001) infarct locations. multiple regression analysis adjusting for differences in predicted infarct size confirmed the significance of streptokinase on the difference in infarct size (p = 0.006). based on the variability of the percent change from predicted to final infarct size in the control group, a threshold decrease greater than or equal to 20% is required for identification of salvage.
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people. we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake, hypertension, and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. we recorded ethanol consumption, history of hypertension, liver disease, cigarette smoking, and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age. in univariate matched analyses, the frequencies of high ethanol intake (p = 0.009), hypertension (p = 0.05), and coagulation disorder (p = 0.05) were higher in the cases than in the controls. after controlling for possible confounding factors, we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage (p = 0.02 and p = 0.05, respectively). the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes (p = 0.01), contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas (p = 0.009). we conclude that chronic, high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people.
musculoskeletal problems in association with cloacal exstrophy. the records of all thirteen patients for whom a diagnosis of cloacal exstrophy had been recorded in our hospitals were analyzed for evidence of musculoskeletal problems. all thirteen patients had spina bifida, four had congenital scoliosis, two had congenital kyphosis, and three had non-congenital scoliosis. all had a lipomeningocele, and eleven had paralysis of the lower extremities. hydrocephalus and its associated problems were not found, but tethered-cord syndrome was diagnosed in eleven patients. persistent diastasis of the symphysis pubis was found in all patients. abduction and external rotation of the hips were more than normal. mild dysplasia was seen in six of the twenty-six hips. deformities of the foot were common, and twelve feet had been operated on for correction. recurrent equinovarus deformity of the foot was associated with tethered-cord syndrome in two patients.
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure. the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance. in both cases, the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and %vc was less than 30%. remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night. the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints. all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died. appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis.
intraoperative coronary excimer laser angioplasty: preliminary clinical experience. diffuse coronary artery atherosclerosis is generally recognized as a deterrent to successful revascularization if it cannot be adequately treated. mechanical endarterectomy can be useful, but it is not the optimal solution owing to the associated higher incidences of perioperative infarction and mortality. the use of laser energy as an endarterectomy tool appears promising. to investigate the application of excimer laser radiation to intraoperative coronary artery endarterectomy, 15 stenotic lesions in 13 patients were treated with excimer irradiation during coronary artery bypass grafting. eleven (73%) of the lesions were enlarged by the excimer probe (6 of the successes were in calcified lesions). the 4 arteries not enlarged by the excimer laser all demonstrated calcified lesions. there were 3 perforations and 2 dissections, all but 1 in heavily calcified arteries. the results of this phase 1 safety and efficacy study indicate that excimer irradiation can recanalize most arteries, including total and subtotal occlusions and some calcified lesions. further evaluation with better delivery systems is needed to determine whether the perforation rate can be reduced.
localised endosteal bone lysis in relation to the femoral components of cemented total hip arthroplasties. four cases are described of localised endosteal bone lysis in the femur occurring in association with cemented femoral components that were not obviously 'loose' radiologically. in each, the area of lysis was shown at operation to be related directly to a region in which there was a local defect in the cement mantle surrounding the stem. via the space between the stem and cement, such defects provide a route through which the contents of the joint cavity may reach the endosteal surface of the femur, subsequently leading to localised bone lysis, and later to frank loosening.
short-term course of corticosteroids in the treatment of resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease. the aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of short-term corticosteroids in resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease after 4 wk or more on standard treatment. thirty-seven patients were randomly allocated to two groups: group i (18 patients) was put on 40 mg furosemide and 200 mg spironolactone, in addition to a 15-day, tapering dose of prednisone (15, 10, 5 mg). group ii (19) patients received the same diuretics without steroids, and served as controls. at the end of a 2-wk course of therapy, the mean variations were as follows: body weight in patients in group i ("cases") decreased by 9.8 kg, compared with 4.3 kg in controls; abdominal girth decreased by 7.4 cm in cases, compared with 3.6 cm in controls; urine output increased by 635.9 ml in cases, compared with 364.6 ml in controls; urinary sodium excretion increased by 16.5 meq/day in cases, compared with 4.1 meq/day in controls. these differences between cases and controls were found to be statistically significant (p less than 0.01). on the other hand, there were insignificant differences as regards decrease in blood urea (3.2 g/dl for cases and 2.7 g/dl for controls), decrease in serum creatinine (0.2 mg/dl for both cases and controls), increase in serum albumin (0.3 g/dl in cases and 0.2 g/dl in controls), increase in serum sodium (3.2 meq/l in cases and 2.7 meq/l in controls), and increase in serum potassium (0.2 meq/l in cases and 0.4 meq/l in controls). we conclude that a short-term course of corticosteroids in conjunction with standard diuretics has proved to be an effective, safe, and economical modality to relieve resistant hepatic ascites. it can be considered a temporary alternative to paracentesis with albumin infusion.
prediction of risk in noncardiac operations after cardiac operations. to determine the preoperative variables affecting the mortality rate and the development of severe complications in patients who have had myocardial revascularization or a valve replacement and who then undergo a noncardiac operation, we retrospectively studied data from 120 such patients over the 5 years from 1982 through 1986. thirty-six percent of patients had a noncardiac operation during the first month after the cardiac operation. the mortality rate was 11%, and the morbidity rate was 56%. the statistical comparison of the predictive accuracy of postoperative complications of three simple, widely used classifications (american society of anesthesiologists physical status, new york heart association classification, massachusetts general hospital cardiac risk index) demonstrated the superiority of the simplified three-class cardiac risk index (massachusetts general hospital-cardiac risk index; predictive accuracy of 84%). in a multivariate discriminant analysis of 21 variables in this population, five variables (myocardial infarction in previous 6 months, s3 gallop or jugular vein distention, arrhythmia on last preoperative electrocardiogram, emergency operation, delay between cardiac and noncardiac operation) were identified as being the most predictive of a postoperative complication. when these variables were used in the function (df3) obtained by linear discriminant analysis, the prediction accuracy of a postoperative complication reached 83%. performance of the new models in a prospective validation population remained satisfactory (75% for massachusetts general hospital-cardiac risk index three-class index and 72% for df3). extensive statistical analysis of our data tested by a validation study provided simple predictive models based on clinical variables easily available even in emergency situations.
patterns of cervical lymph node metastasis from squamous carcinomas of the upper aerodigestive tract. a consecutive series of 1,081 previously untreated patients undergoing 1,119 radical neck dissections (rnds) for squamous carcinoma of the head and neck was reviewed to study the patterns of nodal metastases. primary tumors were located in the oral cavity in 501 patients, in the oropharynx in 207 patients, in the hypopharynx in 126 patients, and in the larynx in 247 patients. lymph node metastases were confirmed histologically in 82% of 776 therapeutic neck dissections, and micrometastases were discovered in 33% of 343 elective rnds. lymph node groups in the neck were described by levels (i to v). predominance of certain levels was seen for each primary site. levels i, ii, and iii were at highest risk for metastasis from cancer of the oral cavity, and levels ii, iii, and iv were at highest risk for metastasis from carcinomas of the oropharynx, hypopharynx, and larynx. supramohyoid neck dissection (clearing levels i, ii, and iii) for no patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity and anterolateral neck dissection (clearing levels ii, iii, and iv) for no patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oropharynx, hypopharynx, and larynx are recommended.
laser placement in noncontact nd:yag cyclophotocoagulation. we treated 40 eyes of 40 patients by using noncontact transscleral nd:yag cyclophotocoagulation to determine whether treatment 1.5 or 3.0 mm posterior to the corneoscleral lumbus was preferable. patients were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups, and all other variables, including power, number, and distribution of laser applications, were kept constant. six months postoperatively, those treated 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus had a lower intraocular pressure (p = .0047) than those treated 3.0 mm from the corneoscleral limbus. the 1.5-mm group also required fewer retreatment (p = .017) and had a slightly lower occurrence of visual acuity loss after this procedure. we believe it may be advantageous to locate the laser application approximately 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus, rather than further posteriorly, when performing noncontact transscleral nd:yag cyclophotocoagulation.
effect of flumazenil on midazolam-induced amnesia. we have studied the effect of i.v. flumazenil 0.01 mg kg-1 on the amnesia and sedation caused by midazolam 2 mg and 5 mg i.v. in volunteers in order to determine the relationship between the actions of the antagonist on these two effects. midazolam caused dose-dependent central neural depression as assessed by critical flicker fusion frequency, and dose-dependent amnesia for word cards. in subjects given flumazenil 5 min after administration of midazolam, fusion frequency readings and memory were restored to levels comparable to those before midazolam administration. these two effects of flumazenil were similar in time course and extent, suggesting that they share the same mechanism of action. flumazenil given alone had no effect on memory. the study has demonstrated anterograde amnesia following benzodiazepine administration and antagonism by flumazenil. there was neither retrograde amnesia nor retrograde antagonism of amnesia.
presentation of breast carcinoma as volkmann's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases. metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare. they usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma. we describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and volkmann's type contracture.
diagnosing breast carcinoma in young women objective--to assess the individual and combined diagnostic accuracy of clinical examination, mammography, and fine needle aspiration biopsy in young women with breast cancer. design--analysis based on case notes of patients presenting with breast cancer during 1971-89. setting--a combined breast clinic. patients--consecutive series of 81 women aged less than 36 with histologically proved breast cancer presenting with a discrete mass over 19 years. main outcome measures--results of clinical examination, xeromammography or conventional mammography, fine needle aspiration biopsy, and examination of tissue removed by surgery. results--the clinical diagnosis was correct in 47 women and radiography in 35. fine needle aspiration biopsy was correct in 47 of the 63 women in whom it was successfully performed. fine needle aspiration was significantly more accurate than mammography (78% v 45%, p less than 0.01). ten (16%) patients had negative results on clinical examination, mammography, and fine needle aspiration. conclusion--mammography alone seems inadequately sensitive to detect breast cancer in young patients. when all investigations give negative results excision biopsy is the only way of obtaining a definitive diagnosis.
the elusive colonic malignancy. a need for definitive preoperative localization. colonoscopy with biopsy is the standard of practice for the diagnosis of colonic malignancies. unfortunately, the inability of endoscopy to obtain precise distance measurements from the anal verge can make localization of lesions at operation difficult. for this reason, preoperative barium enema or intraoperative colonoscopy have been advocated to further pinpoint the sites of those lesions not thought to be easily located at operation. five patients are presented in whom malignant lesions of the colon were diagnosed and verified histologically, but were later undetectable at operation or subsequent colonoscopic examinations. four of these patients underwent laparotomy and three received colon resections. none of these patients' tumors were identified during intraoperative colonoscopy, in the resected bowel on pathologic examination, or on follow-up colonoscopy. a fifth patient is presented who spontaneously passed a polyp containing invasive adenocarcinoma, but multiple colonoscopic examinations have failed to identify the site of the lesion. to date, none of these tumors have recurred with periods of follow-up ranging from 6 months to 2 years. these patients demonstrate a poorly documented and little understood aspect of the behavior of colonic malignancies, i.e., the ability to spontaneously regress or slough from the bowel wall. based on these instances, localization of potentially malignant colon lesions is recommended with submucosal dye injections at initial endoscopy or with colonoscopy in the operating room immediately prior to operation.
association between urinary symptoms at 7 years old and previous urinary tract infection. the association between current micturition habits and previous urinary tract infection was analysed among 3553 school entrants aged 7 years by means of a questionnaire. a high incidence of urinary infection, confirmed by urine culture, was found (145 (8.4%) in the 1719 girls and 32 (1.7%) in the 1834 boys). there was a significant association between current symptoms that were suggestive of disturbed bladder function and previous urinary tract infection, but only among girls who were over 3 years of age at the time the first episode was diagnosed.
optic nerve sheath meningoceles. clinical and radiographic features in 13 cases with a review of the literature thirteen patients with dilated intraorbital optic nerve sheaths with an expanded, patulous cerebrospinal fluid (csf) space were studied with high-resolution computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri). eleven patients had bilateral findings. headache or visual complaints, or both, were present in all patients. signs of optic nerve dysfunction were present in eight patients. three patients had visual acuity worse than 20/200. cerebrospinal fluid pressure was mildly elevated in two patients. three patients underwent a surgical procedure; visual acuity improved in one. the authors propose the term meningocele for this condition and suggest mri with fat-suppression techniques and off-axis sagittal views as the radiographic procedure of choice.
antinociception and cardiovascular responses produced by electrical stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarius, nucleus reticularis ventralis, and the caudal medulla. in experiment 1, quantitative regional comparisons of the antinociceptive and cardiovascular responses produced by electrical stimulation in the caudal medulla, including regions such as the nucleus tractus solitarius (nts), nucleus reticularis ventralis (nrv), nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (nrgc), nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis (nrpgc), nucleus raphe obscurus (nro), and medial portions of the lateral reticular nucleus (lrn), were made in the rat. electrical stimulation in all of these regions resulted in inhibition of the nociceptive tail-flick reflex, although the threshold intensity for inhibition was greater for sites in nts compared to many sites ventral to the nts. antinociception was generally accompanied by an increase in mean arterial blood pressure, with the exception of sites in the nro, where depressor responses were evoked by stimulation. detailed comparisons between the nts and nrv revealed that greater intensities of electrical stimulation were required to produce antinociception for sites in the nts as compared to the nrv. there were no significant differences in threshold intensities for antinociception as a function of rostrocaudal subdivisions of the nts, but the lateral subdivision of the nts was significantly more efficacious than the medial subdivision. this mediolateral difference within nts was primarily due to stimulation in medial sites producing overt movements in some animals, probably due to stimulation of adjacent midline nuclei or pathways. within the nrv, thresholds for inhibition of the tail-flick reflex were greater for sites in the dorsal subdivision as compared to the ventral subdivision, which contains spinopetal projections from the nrm. the slopes of the lines of recruitment for inhibition of the tail-flick reflex at stimulation sites in either the nts or nrv were both very steep, similar to other forms of antinociception. in experiment 2, the pulse duration of electrical stimulation was varied for sites of stimulation in the lateral nts and nrv to generate strength-duration curves. this experiment confirmed that stimulation sites in the lateral nts required greater current intensities to inhibit the tail-flick reflex than sites in the nrv. however, the chronaxies derived from the strength-duration functions for the nts or nrv were both approximately 170 microseconds, indicating that the antinociceptive effects in these regions may not be exclusively due to the stimulation of fibers of passage. these results are discussed in terms of the role of the nts, nrv, and caudal medulla in the modulation of nociceptive responses and cardiovascular function.
tumor factors predicting for prognosis in metastatic breast cancer. the presence of p24 predicts for response to treatment and duration of survival. fifty-one patients with metastatic breast cancer were investigated to determine tumor parameters with prognostic significance. investigations included determinations of p24 content by immunocytochemical means using a monoclonal antibody to p24 protein; immunocytochemical analysis of estrogen and progesterone receptors; ploidy analysis by flow cytometry, and histologic grading. there were significant correlations between the presence of p24 and estrogen receptor, between histologic grade and p24 expression, and between estrogen and progesterone receptors. of the tumor factors investigated only p24 protein was, however, of prognostic significance. patients with p24-positive tumors had a significantly higher rate of response to treatment as well as more prolonged duration of response and duration of survival from diagnosis of metastatic disease. none of the other variables investigated were significantly predictive of outcome. p24 protein may be a useful predictor of prognosis in metastatic breast cancer.
an epithelial cyst in the cerebellopontine angle. case report. a case of a benign epithelial cyst in the posterior cranial fossa is described. it had the unique histological feature of a double-layered cuboidal epithelial lining. detailed immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies supported an endodermal origin. the differential diagnosis and the histogenesis of epithelial cysts in the central nervous system are discussed.
recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevus. a benign lesion, not to be mistaken for malignant melanoma. melanocytic nevi that recur after incomplete removal are pigmented lesions that may clinically and pathologically simulate malignant melanoma in situ. five examples of recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevus, with emphasis on light microscopic and immunohistochemical findings, are reported herein. prominent hmb-45 staining in these nevi may cause further confusion in differentiating them from malignant melanoma. the differential diagnosis of recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevi is discussed, with particular emphasis on distinguishing these lesions from malignant melanoma. our immunohistochemical observations indicate that the recurrences most likely develop as a result of proliferation of melanocytes remaining in the epidermis and/or adnexae following incomplete removal. the approach and management of recurrent nevi are also discussed.
overestimation of myocardial infarct size by histologic measurement in a model of occlusion followed by reperfusion. we studied 32 transverse left ventricular slices of myocardium from 16 pigs after 45 to 100 minutes of coronary artery occlusion followed by 180 minutes of reperfusion. infarct area for each slice was determined as follows: (1) grossly, by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining of each slice, and (2) microscopically, by complete histologic sectioning of the triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained surface of each slice. planimetry of necrotic and nonnecrotic areas was performed from tracings and photographs of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained slices and from actual histologic sections. when triphenyl tetrazolium chloride and histologic measurements were compared, necrotic tissue area had decreased 11.4% +/- 15.0% (2.59 +/- 1.04 vs 2.09 +/- 0.86 cm2). nonnecrotic tissue area decreased 20.6% +/- 24.0% (8.31 +/- 3.79 vs 5.16 +/- 2.73 cm2). in this model of ischemia followed by reperfusion, with fixation and processing, viable tissue shrank almost twice as much as necrotic tissue. this differential shrinkage introduces an error resulting in overestimation of infarct size by histologic quantitation.
resting metabolic rate and energy balance in amenorrheic and eumenorrheic runners. this study investigated metabolic and nutritional factors in association with athletic menstrual dysfunction (amd). three groups of women were studied: amenorrheic runners (amenorrheic), eumenorrheic runners (eumenorrheic), and eumenorrheic sedentary controls (sedentary). amenorrheic and eumenorrheic were similar in age, weight, percent body fat by hydrodensitometry, training pace and mileage, best 10 km race time, years running, and maximal oxygen consumption. when adjusted for body weight or for fat-free mass by analysis of covariance, rmr was significantly lower in amenorrheic than in eumenorrheic and sedentary. the daily caloric intakes of the groups did not differ significantly, but the amenorrheic scored significantly higher than the eumenorrheic and sedentary on a scale of aberrant eating patterns. amenorrheic high mileage runners seem to have a less adequate diet than eumenorrheic runners but appear to maintain energy balance and stable weight through a reduction in rmr.
anticonvulsant and behavioral effects of two novel competitive n-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor antagonists, cgp 37849 and cgp 39551, in the kindling model of epilepsy. comparison with mk-801 and carbamazepine. the orally active competitive n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) receptor antagonists cgp 37849 (dl-[e]-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid) and its ethyl ester cgp 39551 were evaluated in amygdala-kindled rats, a model for complex partial and secondarily generalized seizures. anticonvulsant and behavioral effects of these novel compounds were compared with those of the noncompetitive nmda receptor antagonist mk-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5h-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imin e] and the antiepileptic drug carbamazepine, one of the major drugs for treatment of partial and generalized seizures in humans. for comparative evaluation, the compounds were injected i.p. at the following doses: 1 to 10 mg/kg (cgp 37849 or cgp 39551), 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg (mk-801) and 20 to 40 mg/kg (carbamazepine), respectively. in contrast to carbamazepine, cgp 37849, cgp 39551 and mk-801 exerted only weak anticonvulsant effects in fully kindled rats and did not increase the focal seizure threshold. the weak anticonvulsant effects of the nmda receptor antagonists in kindled rats were associated with profound untoward behavioral effects. the behavioral syndrome induced by the nmda receptor antagonists in kindled rats was characterized by marked ataxia, hyperactivity and, in case of cgp 37849 and mk-801, stereotypies, such as head weaving. the low or absent effectiveness of the novel nmda receptor antagonists against kindled seizures suggests that these compounds will not be clinically useful antiepileptics against partial and secondarily generalized seizures. furthermore, in view of the recent clinical findings on psychotomimetic effects of mk-801 in epileptic patients, the similarities in the excitatory effects produced by cgp 39551, cgp 37849 and mk-801 in kindled rats may indicate that competitive nmda receptor antagonists may also produce psychotomimetic effects in humans.
treatment of traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta. a 15-year experience. traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta is increasing in incidence and remains a highly lethal injury. the morbidity associated with this injury also remains high. we retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients admitted to our emergency department with ruptured thoracic aortas during a 15-year period to determine the reason for this persistently high morbidity and mortality and to identify any factors that might improve the outcome. we found that patients who are in unstable condition on arrival in the emergency department or who become unstable before reaching the operating room are not likely to survive. patients who are injured in automobile accidents have a greater chance of survival than do those injured in motorcycle accidents or car-pedestrian accidents. patients who are in hemodynamically stable condition after aortic injury survive only if diagnosis and treatment are prompt. major complications of repair following thoracic aortic injury relate primarily to the length of cross-clamp time, and every effort should be devoted to keeping the cross-clamp time less than 30 minutes.
increased ischemic injury but decreased hypoxic injury in hypertrophied rat hearts. the purpose of this study was to compare the degree of ischemic and hypoxic injury in normal versus hypertrophied rat hearts to investigate basic mechanisms responsible for irreversible myocardial ischemic injury. hearts from rats with bands placed on the aortic arch at 23 days of age (band) and sham-operated rats (sham, 8 weeks postoperative) were isolated, perfused with krebs buffer, and had a left ventricular balloon to measure developed pressure. hearts were made globally ischemic until they developed peak ischemic contracture and were reperfused for 30 minutes. additional hearts were perfused for 15 minutes with glucose-free hypoxic buffer followed by 20 minutes of oxygenated perfusion. there was an 87% increase in heart weight of band compared with sham (p less than 0.01). during ischemia, lactate levels increased faster in band compared with sham, ischemic contracture occurred earlier in band than in sham despite no difference in atp levels, and postischemic recovery of left ventricular pressure was less in band (26.8 +/- 5.6% of control left ventricular pressure, mean +/- sem) compared with sham (40 +/- 4.6%, p less than 0.05). during hypoxic perfusion, lactate release was greater in band than in sham (48.8 +/- 1.2 versus 26.6 +/- 0.97 mumols/g, p less than 0.01), and with reoxygenation, lactate dehydrogenase release was less in band than in sham (13.2 +/- 0.7 versus 19.5 +/- 0.2 iu/g, p less than 0.01). after hypoxia and reoxygenation, left ventricular pressure recovery was greater in band than in sham (93 +/- 8.4% versus 66 +/- 5.3%, p less than 0.01). thus, this study suggests that hypertrophied hearts have a greater potential for glycolytic metabolism, resulting in an increased rate of by-product accumulation during ischemia, which may be responsible for the increased susceptibility of hypertrophied hearts to ischemic injury.
channel specificity in antiarrhythmic drug action. mechanism of potassium channel block and its role in suppressing and aggravating cardiac arrhythmias. although work on class iii antiarrhythmics remains at an early stage, these agents still appear to possess greater efficacy and less proarrhythmia than conventional class i agents in those experimental arrhythmia models considered to be most representative of the clinical situation. although prolongation of repolarization carries with its own tendency for pause-dependent arrhythmogenesis (i.e., torsade de pointes), available data suggest that this may be a function of nonspecificity in potassium channel block rather than a general characteristic of class iii activity. the availability of new and more selective blockers of specific cardiac potassium channels under development as class iii agents have already helped to clarify basic questions about the ionic mechanism of repolarization in the heart, and one hopes that a growing clinical data base will eventually determine the relative safety and efficacy of these agents in preventing symptomatic and life-threatening arrhythmias.
physical and psychosocial consequences of total laryngectomy. the incidence and severity of respiratory symptoms after total laryngectomy and their influence on daily living were studied in 59 laryngectomized patients. daily sputum production was the principal complaint of these patients (98%), followed by coughing (64%) and the need for frequent forced expectoration (more than 5 times a day) in order to clear the airway (57%). frequent stoma cleaning (more than 5 times a day) was required by 37% of the patients. significant correlation was found between respiratory symptoms, voice rehabilitation and several aspects of daily living, including fatigue, sleep problems, social contacts and psychological distress. these findings indicate that respiratory symptoms after total laryngectomy are both frequent and troublesome. the development of effective methods for minimizing and/or preventing such respiratory problems would contribute significantly to improving the quality of life of laryngectomized patients.
pheochromocytoma with electrocardiographic change mimicking angina pectoris, and cyclic change in direct arterial pressure--a case report. a forty-two-year-old man was admitted because of chest pain. electrocardiograms at admission showed horizontal st depression in leads, ii, iii, avf, v4, v5, and v6. direct blood pressure monitoring revealed cyclic change between 160/100 mmhg and 70/50 mmhg and heart rate between 80/sec and 120/sec at fifteen minute intervals. the plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations were elevated during the episodes of hypertension. pheochromocytoma was found in the right adrenal gland. these cyclic changes in blood pressure and heart rate are an aid for diagnosis.
postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst. case report. a large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man. the cyst wall, histologically composed of mature bone tissue, was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte- or fibroblast-like cells on the inside. the ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation.
electroencephalographic changes during brief cardiac arrest in humans. slowing and attenuation of the dominant frequency of the electroencephalogram (eeg) are changes commonly used to detect cerebral ischemia. to assess the validity of this method, the eegs recorded during 93 episodes of circulatory arrest in ten normothermic, lightly anesthetized patients undergoing implantation of automatic internal cardioverting defibrillators (aicds) were visually inspected for change. the number of events recorded for each patient varied from 5 to 18 and was a function of the duration and success of aicd testing in each patient. in 82 of 93 (88%) episodes, eeg changes were identified, and occurred an average of 10.2 s after the last normal heart beat. of these 82, 67 (82%) illustrated slowing and attenuation. however, 15 (18%) of the hemodynamic events showed changes not previously described as indicative of cerebral ischemia: 6 (7%) showed a loss of delta-wave activity and 9 (11%) showed an increase in the amplitude of theta activity. time to onset of these unusual changes (10.6 and 9.2 s, respectively) was not significantly different from that for eeg slowing and attenuation (10.2 s). five of the ten subjects showed more than one pattern of eeg change. there was no significant difference in the time to onset of eeg change among individual patients, and neither were there differences in patterns of change associated with particular anesthetic agents. these results indicate that in normothermic, lightly anesthetized individuals, cerebral ischemia may cause changes in eeg pattern other than slowing and attenuation of dominant frequencies. these alternative patterns should be recognized as indicative of cerebral ischemia when intraoperative eeg monitoring is performed.
the role of the immunogenetics laboratory in marrow transplantation. allogeneic marrow transplants from genotypically hla-identical siblings have become lifesaving therapy for patients with various congenital and acquired diseases of the immune and hematopoietic systems. unfortunately, less than 30% of patients in the united states have an hla-identical sibling; therefore, many are denied the opportunity for potentially curative treatment for otherwise fatal conditions. the results of marrow transplantation from haploidentical family members who were partially compatible for nonshared haplotypes with the patients demonstrated the relevance of hla compatibility for engraftment and graft-vs-host disease. these results have provided the rationale for using hla-identical unrelated volunteers as marrow donors. the recent development of a national registry of volunteer bone marrow donors (the national marrow donor program in the united states) has made it possible to access a centralized file of more than 260,000 hla-typed volunteers. marrow transplants from an unrelated donor have become feasible. however, our preliminary clinical experience clearly demonstrated an increase in the incidence and severity of graft-vs-host disease. it is likely that standard hla typing techniques are not adequate to provide data for sufficient donor and recipient matching. it is possible that currently available molecular technology could be applied to hla typing and donor matching to improve on clinical results.
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus. we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy. the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks' gestation. although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester, she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester. polyarteritis nodosa (pan)-like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles, with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges, brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy. pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle. this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle.
hamman-rich syndrome revisited in this article, we retrospectively review 29 cases of hamman-rich syndrome. as in some other recent reports, we have used the term "acute interstitial pneumonia" to emphasize the clinical and pathologic features of these cases and to distinguish them from the more common chronic interstitial pneumonias, particularly idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. of the 29 patients, 12 survived, some after a long and complicated hospitalization. the histologic features were those of organizing diffuse alveolar damage, and some patients, including survivors, had extensive fibroblastic distortion of lung parenchyma. the overall survival among these patients was not appreciably different from the survival of patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome in general.
diagnosis of lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations. lyme disease, or lyme borreliosis, is an infection caused by the spirochete borrelia burgdorferi, which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite. characterized by early and late phases, lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin, heart, joints, and nervous system. diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations, the most specific being dermatologic. thus, recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate, effective therapy. approximately 75% of patients with lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans, an expanding erythematous lesion. during early infection, secondary erythema migrans lesions or borrelia lymphocytoma may occur. borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple. during late infection, acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans, an erythematous, atrophic plaque unique to lyme disease may appear; it has been described in about 10% of patients with lyme disease in europe. fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions, such as morphea, lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, anetoderma, and atrophoderma of pasini and pierini, have been seen late in the course of lyme disease. in a few cases, other sclerodermatous lesions, such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy, have been linked to b. burgdorferi infection. we review the cutaneous lesions associated with lyme disease.
squamous cell carcinoma of the anus and hiv infection. we retrospectively reviewed six patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anus (scca) and human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection treated between 1985 and 1988. all six patients were homosexual men. five patients had aids and one was hiv-positive. the most common symptoms and signs were pain (n = 5), mass (n = 5), and bleeding (n = 5). the average tumor size was 3.2 cm with a range of 1-10 cm. five tumors were located in the anal canal and one at the anodermal junction. one patient was treated with biopsy alone, one with local excision, one with wide local excision and radiation therapy, and two with diverting colostomy. the average follow-up was 8 months. of the five aids patients, two died, one was transferred to a hospice facility, one was lost to follow-up, and one remains alive 1 year following treatment. the hiv-positive patient died secondary to metastatic scca. this group of patients raises the question of a possible association between hiv and scca.
acute dissection of the internal mammary artery: a fatal complication of coronary artery bypass grafting. a case of acute traumatic dissection of the right internal mammary artery is presented in a patient who had both imas grafted for recurrent angina 10 years after initial vein coronary revascularisation. the event was mistaken for spasm, but because of severe circulatory collapse no time was available to treat the patient appropriately. the purpose of this report is to facilitate the early recognition and avoidance of this potentially fatal complication.
prevention of cardiovascular disease: risks and benefits of aspirin. aspirin has been tested for its benefit in preventing cardiovascular disease in randomized trials in three categories of patients. in secondary prevention among those with a history of myocardial infarction (mi), stroke or transient cerebral ischemia, or unstable angina pectoris, 25 randomized trials demonstrated significant reductions from aspirin of 25% for the occurrence of an "important vascular event" (nonfatal mi, nonfatal stroke, or vascular death), 32% for nonfatal mi, 27% for nonfatal stroke, and 15% for vascular mortality. among those evolving an mi, the second international study of infarct survival (isis-2) showed a significant reduction of 23% in five-week vascular mortality among those started on a one-month regimen of daily aspirin within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of suspected mi. aspirin also significantly reduced reinfarction, nonfatal stroke, and important vascular events. finally, in primary prevention, the us physicians' health study (phs) showed a significant 44% reduction in the occurrence of a first mi among apparently healthy male physicians; numbers of strokes and vascular deaths were insufficient to permit conclusions for these endpoints. thus, aspirin is of clear benefit in reducing mi, stroke, and vascular death in secondary prevention and among those evolving an mi. it is also beneficial in the primary prevention of mi among men over 40, but data concerning its effects on stroke and vascular death remain inconclusive.
effect of bleomycin on hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy of solid tumors. hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy (hpd-pt) has been successfully used to localize and treat superficial squamous cell cancers. bleomycin sulfate is a glycopeptide antibiotic that has antineoplastic properties against squamous cell cancers. because both hpd-pt and bleomycin chemotherapy are accepted forms of treatment for squamous cell cancer and their cytotoxicity is mediated by singlet oxygen and oxygen radicals, we studied the possibility of enhancing the response of solid tumors to hpd-pt by combining this modality with systemic bleomycin chemotherapy in a murine tumor model. bleomycin did not enhance hpd-pt significantly. also, we are not confident that hpd-pt alone or in combination with other agents can eradicate solid tumors; it certainly did not in this syngeneic murine tumor model.
control of hypertensive emergencies although uncommon, hypertensive emergencies require prompt recognition and treatment to reduce very high morbidity and mortality rates. admission to an intensive care unit for treatment and monitoring is essential for optimal care. a swan-ganz catheter is often helpful in management. intravenous nitroprusside sodium (nipride, nitropress) is probably the drug of choice for hypertensive emergencies other than those due to eclampsia or pheochromocytoma.
risk of gastric cancer after gastric surgery for benign disorders. the objective of this review was to evaluate published evidence for the association between gastric resection for benign disorders and subsequent cancer of the gastric remnant. we searched the literature through medline (1970 to 1988) and through the references of relevant articles. fifty-eight studies consisting of case series, uncontrolled surveys, and case control or cohort analyses were identified and critically assessed using defined methodological criteria. there were no consistent differences between the expected and observed number of cancers occurring within 15 years after gastric resection. however, all case control studies and seven of the eight cohort analyses, in which the prevalence of cancer was stratified by time since gastric resection, indicated a twofold to fourfold increase in the risk of gastric cancer in patients who survived 15 or more years after gastric surgery. we conclude that most studies of the association of gastric surgery with subsequent gastric cancer have relatively weak designs. still, the repetitive demonstration of this association by different investigators using different research designs supports the hypothesis that gastric resection increases the risk of cancer in the gastric remnant.
renal secretion and hepatic clearance of human multiple renin forms. human active renin can be separated into at least five forms by isoelectric focusing. the present study assessed the preferential renal secretion and hepatic degradation of renin forms in humans. the renin form profile of secreted renal renin was determined before transplant in an ex vivo kidney donor perfusion system and compared with the peripheral plasma multiple renin form profile of normal subjects. the effect of hepatic degradation on renin forms was assessed in hepatic vein plasma in comparison with infrarenal vena cava plasma in hypertensive patients during renal vein renin studies. the results revealed a significantly greater proportion of the more basic forms in the perfusate of donor kidneys compared with normal plasma. in hypertensive patients the proportion of the more basic renin forms in the hepatic vein was significantly decreased in comparison with the infrarenal vena cava. thus, the human kidney may preferentially secrete the more basic renin forms. in contrast, the liver preferentially degrades the more basic forms, giving these forms a shorter plasma half-life. the preferential secretion and clearance of the more basic forms of renin may contribute to short-term control of human renin-angiotensin system activity.
selected measures of health status for mexican-american, mainland puerto rican, and cuban-american children. the 1987 national vital statistics system and the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey (1982 through 1984) were used to assess the health status of mexican-american, mainland puerto rican, and cuban-american children by examining the prevalences of pregnancy outcomes and chronic medical conditions. the low-birth-weight rate among hispanics (7.0%) compared favorably with that of non-hispanic whites (7.1%) despite the greater poverty and lower levels of education among hispanics. when examined by hispanic subgroup, however, significant differences were present, with mainland puerto ricans having the highest prevalences of low-birth-weight infants. premature births were more common among all three hispanic subgroups than among non-hispanic whites. mexican-american and cuban-american children had a similar prevalence of (3.9% and 2.5%, respectively) chronic medical conditions compared with non-hispanic white children; puerto rican children had a higher prevalence of chronic medical conditions (6.2%). when assessed by these health status indicators, hispanic children seem to have a health status similar to non-hispanic white children. however, mainland puerto rican children seem at greater risk for poor health, reflecting the us hispanic population's heterogeneity. health programs targeted at us hispanics should appropriately consider these group differences.
hippocampal sclerosis can be reliably detected by magnetic resonance imaging. two independent blinded observers reported the preoperative mris in a series of 81 consecutive patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy who were undergoing temporal lobectomy. we then compared the nature and lateralization of the mri abnormalities with the pathologic diagnosis and the side of lobectomy. the mri criteria of hippocampal sclerosis were an increased t2-weighted signal and the signal's confinement to a unilaterally small hippocampus. imaging was performed in coronal and axial planes, specially orientated along and perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampal body. we found diagnostic mri abnormalities in 25 of the 27 cases with pathologically proven hippocampal sclerosis (sensitivity 93%, specificity 86%). in addition, we detected all 13 foreign tissue lesions on mri. overall, we detected lateralized lesions on mri that correctly predicted the side of the epileptogenic temporal lobe in 72 cases (89%), with 2 possible errors. a learning effect in appreciating the relatively subtle mri changes of hippocampal sclerosis was apparent in our later cases, as shown by an improved correlation between the 2 observers. this study demonstrates that hippocampal sclerosis can be identified on mri with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity.
selective evaluation and management of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. a 16-year experience. reduction of cardiac mortality associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair remains an important goal. five hundred consecutive urgent or elective operations for infrarenal nonruptured aaa were reviewed. patients were divided into three groups based on preoperative cardiac status: group i (n = 260, 52%), no clinical or electrocardiographic (ecg) evidence of coronary artery disease (cad); group ii (n = 212, 42.2%), clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered stable after further evaluation with studies such as dipyridamole-thallium scanning, echocardiography, or coronary arteriography; group iii (n = 28, 5.6%), clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered unstable after further evaluation. group i had no further cardiac evaluation and groups i and ii underwent aaa repair without invasive treatment of cad. group iii underwent repair of cardiac disease before (n = 21) or coincident with (n = 7) aaa repair. in all instances, perioperative fluid volume management was based on left ventricular performance curves constructed before operation. the 30-day operative mortality rate for aaa repair in all 500 patients was 1.6% (n = 8). there was one (0.4%) cardiac-related operative death in group i, which was significantly less than the five (2.4%) in group ii (p less than 0.02). total mortality for the two groups were also significantly different, with one group i death (0.4%) and seven group ii deaths (3.3%), (p less than 0.02). these data support the conclusions that (1) the leading cause of perioperative mortality in aaa repair is myocardial infarction, (2) correction of severe or unstable cad before or coincident with aaa repair is effective in preventing operative mortality, (3) patients with known cad should be investigated more thoroughly to identify those likely to develop perioperative myocardial ischemia so that their cad can be corrected before aaa repair, and (4) patients with no clinical or ecg evidence of cad rarely die of perioperative myocardial infarction, and thus selective evaluation of cad based on clinical grounds in aaa patients is justified.
osteoblastoma of the spine. a review of 75 cases. clinical and radiologic features of 75 cases of osteoblastoma of the spine were reviewed. in addition to pain, which was the most frequent complaint, 18 patients demonstrated objective neurologic deficit, while scoliosis was observed in 17 patients. aspirin yielded pain relief in 13 patients. pathologic fracture was not encountered. the radiologic and histologic characteristics of osteoblastoma of the spine are indistinguishable from those arising in other sites. the typical lesion exhibited a well-defined, geographic margin with a sclerotic, frequently lobulated border. approximately one half of the cases were predominantly lucent, the remainder displaying varying degrees of matrix mineralization. distribution of the osteoblastomas through the spinal axis was as follows: cervical-29, thoracic-16, lumbar-17, sacral-13. other significant findings included posterior element involvement in 73 of 75 cases, and a striking male to female ratio of 2.5 to 1.
transcardiac release of leukotriene c4 by neutrophils in patients with coronary artery disease. leukotriene c4 is a potent constrictor of smooth muscle in vitro and may induce coronary vasoconstriction in vivo. to study leukotriene c4 release by neutrophils in patients with coronary artery disease, neutrophils were separated from blood samples taken from the coronary sinus and aorta in 20 patients with stable exertional angina and angiographically documented coronary artery narrowings (group i). eight patients with normal coronary arteries were also studied (group ii). to assess leukotriene c4 generation, neutrophils were incubated with calcium ionophore a 23187 (0.25 microm) and the supernatants obtained after centrifugation were analyzed for leukotriene c4 by radioimmunoassay. patients in group i had a significantly lower release of leukotriene c4 from neutrophils separated from the coronary sinus blood than from those separated from aortic blood (4.33 +/- 0.69 versus 5.92 +/- 0.54 ng/ml, p less than 0.025), whereas patients in group ii had a similar release of leukotriene c4 by the neutrophils separated from coronary sinus blood and from aortic blood (6.0 +/- 0.72 versus 6.4 +/- 0.66 ng/ml, p = ns). moreover, in group i patients, a significant correlation was found (p less than 0.01) between the extent of coronary artery disease (expressed by the leaman coronary score) and the percent reduction in leukotriene c4 released from neutrophils separated from coronary sinus blood as compared with leukotriene c4 produced by neutrophils separated from aortic blood. these data show that neutrophils from patients with coronary artery disease have a reduced ability to produce leukotriene c4 after stimulation by calcium ionophore a 23187.
widespread functional effects of discrete thalamic infarction. in order to investigate functional effects of various thalamic structures on metabolism in remote, morphologically intact cerebral regions, we used positron emission tomography of (18f)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose to study regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose (rcmrglu) in 11 patients with chronic unilateral or bilateral infarcts strictly confined to the thalamus. patients were grouped according to computed tomographic scans showing anterior (three), medial (four), or posterior (four) lesions. compared with a matched group of 11 healthy subjects (hemispheric cmrglu 35.2 +/- 3.49 mumol/100 g per minute), glucose metabolism was significantly lower in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the infarction (31.2 +/- 2.97 mumol/100 g per minute). patients with bilateral infarcts had lower hemispheric cmrglu (29.9 +/- 2.74 mumol/100 g per minute) than those with unilateral lesions (32.2 +/- 2.97 mumol/100 g per minute). depending on infarct location within the thalamus, there was differential depression of rcmrglu, with the largest effects on frontal and occipital areas in medial infarctions. except for ipsilateral thalamic deactivation, metabolic patterns with anterior thalamic infarcts were close to normal, while posterior infarcts mostly depressed rcmrglu in the visual and in the inferior limbic cortex. cerebellar metabolic rates were within normal limits in most cases. these patterns of regional cerebral deactivation may be related to categories of thalamic projections--intrathalamic, to limbic system and basal ganglia, diffuse to most cortical areas, and specific to defined neocortical areas. even small brain lesions may have widespread functional sequelae, potentially demonstrable by positron emission tomography.
a five-year u.s. army experience with 36,250 abdominal hernia repairs. thirty-six thousand two hundred fifty abdominal hernia repairs were performed in u.s. army medical treatment facilities during a five-year period. this study presents data about the type of hernia, incidence of complications by obstruction or strangulation, age, sex, and mortality. hernias occurring with intestinal obstruction or gangrene (strangulation) are referred to as complicated hernias. inguinal hernias in children less than two years of age, femoral hernias, and unusual (such as internal or obturator) hernias were found to have an increased incidence of complications. surgical repair of ventral, umbilical, and femoral hernias was done with a low surgical risk and the presence of complications did not significantly increase this risk. an increased risk of mortality is associated with the repair of complicated unusual hernias and complicated inguinal hernias in patients more than 60 years of age.
sequencing in parkinson's disease. abnormalities in programming and controlling movement. central programming deficits in parkinson's disease (pd) were studied in two reaction time (rt) experiments. in experiment 1, pd patients and controls performed sequences of hand postures that varied in length, the number of different postures (repetitive vs heterogeneous), and the delay interval before movement. before movement, the pd group planned repetitive movements like controls whereas for heterogeneous sequences rt increased less with sequence length for the pd group, implying less preprogramming. the interresponse time (irt) data from repetitive sequences showed that the pd group had difficulty controlling movement such that irts were faster when sequences were longer, thus allowing more time to schedule the termination of the sequence during the course of movement. for heterogeneous sequences, the pd group made more errors and were slower than controls when changing hand postures, suggesting a deficit in switching between different responses. while rt decreased with a longer delay similarly for both groups, irt1 continued to improve only for the pd group but similarly for both types of sequences, suggesting a deficit specific to programming the first response. in experiment 2, subjects made decisions about the number of different hand postures contained within a sequence. pd patients' decision times improved more with a longer delay only for heterogeneous sequences, suggesting a problem in identifying the number of different hand postures. the results have implications for levels of motor dysfunction in pd which emphasize the influence of sequence length and complexity.
motor-evoked potentials reflect spinal cord function in post-traumatic syringomyelia. the purpose of this study was to examine electrophysiologic abnormalities, including motor-evoked potentials, in a patient with post-traumatic syringomyelia before and after syringopleural shunting. a patient with c5 quadriplegia presented with pain, ascending sensory loss, and new weakness in the left upper extremity two yr after spinal cord injury. mri revealed a syrinx extending from c2 to t12. we measured central motor conduction times (cmcts) to the biceps, median f-wave latencies, needle electromyography and motor nerve conduction studies. six days before surgery, cmcts were 9.0 ms on the left and 7.8 ms on the right (normal less than 8.0), median f-waves were absent on the left and needle emg revealed evidence of denervation in the left biceps. fifteen days after syringopleural shunting at the t7 level, cmcts had dropped to 6.9 ms on the left and 4.6 ms on the right; the left median f-wave reappeared with a normal latency. repeat mri revealed the syrinx to be smaller in diameter. these results suggest that cmcts measured from magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex may be useful in the diagnosis of post-traumatic syringomyelia, as well as for following such patients postoperatively.
hepatocyte transplantation into the lung for treatment of acute hepatic failure in the rat. the lung was investigated as a matrix for transplanted hepatocytes in the rat model. surgically induced fulminant hepatic failure was successfully treated by injection of 5 to 7 x 10(7) isolated hepatocytes into the pulmonary parenchyma in 86% of the animals. no animal, however, survived injection of hepatocytes into the jugular vein. it was found that liver failure is a prerequisite for the intrapulmonary survival of hepatocytes. after regeneration of the native liver, the majority of hepatocytes are cleared away within 6 months.
the neuromuscular pathology of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of l-tryptophan. we studied the lesions of skeletal muscle, peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of ems. perimyositis was severe in four, moderate in two, mild in three and absent in three cases. the lesions contained many eosinophils, t-helper cells, mast cells and activated macrophages. type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one, this was the only pathologic finding. severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies. indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs (two cases) and neurogenic atrophy (one case). phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one. fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one.
occlusion of an "accessory" distal anterior cerebral artery during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms. report of two cases. two cases are presented in which clip occlusion of a third distal anterior cerebral artery segment occurred during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms. case histories, angiograms, operative descriptions, and postmortem findings are presented. the incidence of this anomalous vessel is reviewed. preoperative and intraoperative vigilance in determining the presence of this anomaly prior to clip placement is emphasized.
propafenone treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias. a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial in patients tolerating oral therapy. objective: to test the hypothesis that propafenone, administered orally, prevents symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias. design: a 6-month, open-label, dose-finding phase followed by a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover phase, with each treatment period lasting up to 60 days. setting: an outpatient clinic. patients: thirty-three patients with either paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (n = 16) or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (n = 17) were enrolled. their arrhythmias were documented by electrocardiogram before enrollment. twenty-three patients (14 with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and 9 with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation) were randomized and the data obtained from these patients were used in the efficacy analysis. intervention: propafenone (300 mg three times daily in 19 patients, 300 mg twice daily in 3 patients, and 150 mg twice daily in 1 patient) and matching placebo tablets were administered in a randomized sequence. measurements: symptomatic arrhythmia was documented by telephone transmission of the electrocardiogram. main results: the time to first recurrence was prolonged for the overall group of 23 patients while they received propafenone (p = 0.004). the recurrence rate of arrhythmia during treatment with propafenone was estimated to be approximately one fifth of the recurrence rate during treatment with placebo. conclusions: propafenone is effective in reducing symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias.
total perinatal wastage. a clarification of priorities. the pregnancy outcome of 16,971 women carrying 17,352 living fetuses after 16 weeks gestation was studied. as well as recording perinatal deaths, all losses before 28 weeks and up to one year after delivery were recorded to give a total perinatal wastage rate of 21.6 per 1000 fetuses alive at 16 weeks compared with a perinatal mortality rate (stillbirths plus early neonatal deaths) of 7.8 per 1000 births. all deaths were then classified according to pathological sub-groups. the concept of auditing perinatal care using perinatal mortality was then compared with that using total perinatal wastage.
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children. islet cell dysmaturation syndrome (icds) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia, pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis. eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy. seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants. six patients had nesidioblastosis, four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells. four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation (90 to 95 per cent resection). four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively. three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection. none have required reoperation or postoperative medications. all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications. five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment, with three having severe retardation; all showed some improvement postoperatively, but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination. early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds.
multimodality evoked potential testing in acute mild closed head injury. multimodality evoked potential (mep) testing, including brainstem auditory, visual, and somatosensory evoked potentials, have been reported to be useful in predicting outcome in severe closed head injury. brainstem auditory evoked potentials have been demonstrated to be abnormal in 10% to 40% of acute mild head injury. a prospective study of 18 patients with mild closed head injury was undertaken to determine the usefulness of mep screening within two weeks of the acute event. long latency event-related potentials (p300s), in response to auditory stimuli with an oddball paradigm, were included in the screening. the subjects had several symptoms consistent with the postconcussive syndrome at the time of the evoked potential testing. only one patient had an abnormal evoked potential response (greater than three standard deviations from the mean) from all the testing done. the standard methods of mep testing were insensitive to quantifying the possible physiologic changes that are associated with memory deficits, lethargy, and emotional irritability after mild closed head injury.
increased endothelin in experimental heart failure. recent studies demonstrate that endothelin, a potent endogenous vasoconstrictor peptide, circulates in plasma of normal animals and humans. however, the role of this peptide in pathophysiological states remains unclear. the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that circulating endothelin concentrations are increased in experimental congestive heart failure (chf), a pathophysiological state characterized by activation of vasoconstrictor mechanisms. in anesthetized dogs with chf produced by 8 days of rapid ventricular pacing (n = 28), circulating plasma endothelin was increased compared with values for normal controls (n = 28; 20.4 +/- 1.4 versus 9.7 +/- 0.9 pg/ml, respectively; p less than 0.0001). a plasma endothelin level of more than 14.0 was a sensitive and specific indicator of significant chf. moreover, within the group with experimental chf, right atrial pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure correlated independently with circulating endothelin levels. based on recent studies demonstrating the physiological actions of twofold increases in circulating endothelin, as observed in the present study, a possible role for endothelin in the pathophysiology of chf is advanced.
selective g to t mutations of p53 gene in hepatocellular carcinoma from southern africa hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is a prevalent cancer in sub-saharan africa and eastern asia. hepatitis b virus and aflatoxins are risk factors for hcc, but the molecular mechanism of human hepatocellular carcinogenesis is largely unknown. abnormalities in the structure and expression of the tumour-suppressor gene p53 are frequent in hcc cell lines, and allelic losses from chromosome 17p have been found in hccs from china and japan. here we report on allelic deletions from chromosome 17p and mutations of the p53 gene found in 50% of primary hccs from southern africa. four of five mutations detected were g----t substitutions, with clustering at codon 249. this mutation specificity could reflect exposure to a specific carcinogen, one candidate being aflatoxin b1 (ref. 7), a food contaminant in africa, which is both a mutagen that induces g to t substitution and a liver-specific carcinogen.
silent cerebrovascular disease in the elderly. correlation with ambulatory pressure. does the average daily blood pressure correlate with hypertensive cerebrovascular disease better than the casual pressure, as has been reported in other target organ involvement? we investigated the associations of two abnormal findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of a vascular etiology, low intense foci (lacunae), and periventricular hyperintense lesions on t1- and t2-weighted images, with both office and average daily blood pressure values in a population of 73 healthy normotensive and hypertensive elderly individuals (70 +/- 6 years old). lacunae were detected in 34 subjects (47%); the number per subject ranged from 0 to 19 and was significantly correlated with advancing age. furthermore, these changes were supposedly related to the average of noninvasive ambulatory (24-hour and during awake and asleep periods) pressure recordings but not to office pressures. the grade of periventricular hyperintensity was also significantly associated with advancing age and the average of ambulatory systolic pressure recordings, particularly during sleep, but not with office blood pressure. in comparisons of normotensive, "office hypertensive," and hypertensive subgroups, abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging were appropriate to the level of the 24-hour blood pressure measurements but not to that of clinic pressure. in hypertensive patients, the presence of electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy was also associated with greater abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging. we conclude that ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is superior to casual pressure measurements in predicting latent cerebrovascular disease, which is unexpectedly common in apparently healthy elderly subjects.
simultaneous bilateral hernia repair. a case against conventional wisdom. the timing of bilateral hernia repair remains controversial. because of reported high recurrence rates after simultaneous bilateral repair, staged procedures have been suggested. this study determined recurrence and complication rates of unilateral versus simultaneous bilateral repair. of 659 patients undergoing hernia repair between 1974 and 1980, 333 underwent unilateral repair and 329 had simultaneous bilateral repair. more than 90% of patients were followed until death or a minimum of 60 months (median, 104 months). perioperative complications were associated with 18% of repairs. more morbidity occurred in the bilateral group. however complication rates for specific events were not significantly different, except for urinary retention, which occurred in 20 patients (6.1%) of the unilateral group and 49 (15%) of the bilateral group (p less than 0.001). overall 25 recurrences occurred in the unilateral group and 31 in the bilateral group. recurrence rates at 5 and 9 years were, respectively, 4.8% and 8.8% in the unilateral group and 5.0% and 9.1% in the bilateral group (p = 0.861). these data suggest that simultaneous bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy does not result in increased rates of most postoperative complications or recurrence when compared with unilateral repair.
diagnostic evaluation of syncope syncope is a common medical problem and is caused by a wide variety of diseases ranging from physiologic derangements with few consequences to conditions that may be immediately life-threatening. because of the large differential diagnosis, many diagnostic tests are available for its evaluation. however, a cause of syncope is not established in 38% to 47% of patients despite these tests. in those patients in whom a diagnosis can be assigned, the history and physical examination identify a potential cause in 49% to 85%. furthermore, in 8% of additional patients, history and physical examination are suggestive of causes that need confirmation by specific tests. routine blood tests rarely yield diagnostically helpful information. in those patients in whom a potential cause for syncope is identified, arrhythmias are diagnosed by electrocardiogram in 2% to 11% of patients, cardiac monitoring in 3% to 27% (telemetry or holter), stress test in less than 1%, carotid massage in less than 1%, and electrophysiologic studies in less than 3%. diagnosis of arrhythmias as a cause of syncope is problematic because symptomatic correlation during electrocardiographic monitoring is rarely found (approximately 4%), and as a result, there is no uniform agreement on diagnostic criteria for abnormalities. similar problems exist in the use of electrophysiologic studies. upright tilt testing and psychiatric examination may be useful in evaluation of recurrent syncope of unknown cause in patients without organic heart disease. based on the results of recent studies, strategies for evaluation of patients with syncope are possible that utilize selective and goal-directed diagnostic testing.
spontaneous dural carotid-cavernous fistula with central retinal vein occlusion and iris neovascularization. spontaneous dural carotid-cavernous fistulas are dural vascular malformations that usually run a benign course. we present a case of a spontaneously occurring dural carotid-cavernous fistula complicated by central retinal vein occlusion and iris neovascularization that led to progressive visual failure.
influence of right bundle branch block on short- and long-term survival after acute anterior myocardial infarction the impact of right bundle branch block on long-term prognosis after anterior wall myocardial infarction is unclear. in 932 patients with q wave anterior infarction, the short- and long-term prognostic significance of the presence of right bundle branch block was analyzed. compared with 754 patients without block, 178 patients with right bundle branch block after myocardial infarction showed an increased incidence of left ventricular failure (72% versus 52%, p less than 0.001) and increased in-hospital (32% versus 8%, p less than 0.001) and 1 year after hospital discharge (17% versus 7%, p less than 0.001) cardiac mortality rates. the presence of right bundle branch block was an independent predictor of increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality when entered in a multivariate analysis. however, the absence of left ventricular failure identified a subgroup of patients with right bundle branch block with low in-hospital (4%) and 1 year postdischarge (5%) cardiac mortality rates comparable with those of patients with neither failure nor right bundle branch block (1.7% and 4.8%, respectively). in the presence of left ventricular failure, patients with associated right bundle branch block had higher in-hospital (43% versus 14%, p less than 0.01) and 1 year postdischarge (24% versus 9%, p less than 0.01) cardiac mortality rates than those of patients with failure but no right bundle branch block. thus, the presence of right bundle branch block after anterior myocardial infarction is an independent marker of poor prognosis.
erythropoietin receptors induced by dimethyl sulfoxide exhibit positive cooperativity associated with an amplified biologic response. erythropoietin triggers the differentiation of erythrocyte progenitors by binding to receptors on their plasma membrane. we report here that pretreatment of erythropoietin-responsive murine erythroleukemia cells with chemical inducers resulted in a striking increase in erythropoietin-specific hemoglobinization. this amplification of the erythropoietin biologic response was accompanied by the induction of a new population of high-density receptors (approximately 20,000 per cell) exhibiting marked positive cooperativity. erythropoietin binding to new receptors displayed a convex upward scatchard plot and a hill coefficient (nh) of 6.75. measurement of erythropoietin receptor mrna demonstrated an initial decrease in receptor transcript followed by an approximately 2- to 3-fold increase after 24-48 hr. this increase in receptor message does not appear to account for the magnitude of the receptor up-regulation by dimethyl sulfoxide. we propose that this positive cooperativity reflects the interaction (clustering) of receptors, presumably through the formation of homooligomers or heterooligomers, and that this receptor interaction may amplify the erythropoietin signal transduction pathway.
acute porphyria presenting with hyperamylasemia. an elevation of serum amylase and lipase has not been reported previously to occur with porphyria. in this report, we describe a patient who presented with the clinical and laboratory picture of pancreatitis: elevated amylase, lipase, amylase-creatinine clearance ratio, and with abdominal pain. only after extensive evaluation, was the patient found to have porphyria. on two separate occasions, with hematin therapy, her serum amylase decreased, as did her clinical symptoms of porphyria and her urinary quantitative porphyrins. this suggests an association between elevation of the serum amylase and lipase with acute porphyria. moreover, this association can lead to delay in establishing the diagnosis of acute porphyria.
a new syndrome of congenital hypoparathyroidism, severe growth failure, and dysmorphic features. twelve infants (six boys, six girls) with severe hypocalcaemic tetany or convulsions were seen over a three year period. nine patients were symptomatic in the newborn period. their hypocalcaemia was associated with hyperphosphataemia and very low concentrations of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone. none of the babies suffered from congenital cardiac disease. cell mediated immunity, measured in five patients, was normal. there were no chromosomal abnormalities but all patients shared several dysmorphic features including deep set eyes, microcephaly, thin lips, beaked nose tip, external ear anomalies, micrognathia, and depressed nasal bridge. mental retardation of varying degree was found in all patients. all had severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation. four patients have died. the remaining eight patients are on treatments with vitamin d and calcium supplements with no change in their growth pattern. we believe that this association of congenital hypoparathyroidism with severe growth failure and dysmorphism represents a new syndrome.
the effect of somatostatin on 5-hydroxytryptamine release from a carcinoid tumor. one of the major manifestations of the carcinoid syndrome is secretory diarrhea thought to be due to overproduction of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-ht). synthetic somatostatin analogues have proved to be clinically effective in controlling this diarrhea. we have established a continuous cell line from a human pancreatic carcinoid tumor that secretes 5-ht. we examined the ability of the somatostatin analogue, sms 201-995, to inhibit 5-ht release in vitro. tumor cells were exposed to sms 201-995 (10(-6) mol/l), pentagastrin (10(-9) mol/l), acetylcholine (10(-5) mol/l), and isoproterenol (10(-5) mol/l) alone and in combination; 5-ht release was assayed with high pressure liquid chromatography. we found that pentagastrin (6.43 +/- 0.64 ng/ml), isoproterenol (20.24 +/- 2.17 ng/ml), and acetylcholine (12.39 +/- 1.10 ng/ml) each stimulated release of 5-ht compared to control values (4.38 +/- 0.42 ng/ml). sms 201-995 significantly reduced release of 5-ht in response to isoproterenol and acetylcholine but did not inhibit the effect of pentagastin. these data suggest that different agents do not act through the same pathway to stimulate 5-ht release from human pancreatic carcinoid cells.
neuroleptic malignant syndrome. when levodopa withdrawal is the cause. neuroleptic malignant syndrome has been described in patients receiving dopamine antagonists and in a few patients after withdrawal of dopaminergic antiparkinson therapy. complications affect almost all organ systems and can be life-threatening. most patients have fever, altered level of consciousness, bradykinesia, and rigidity. treatment includes withdrawal of the causative agent and supportive therapy for complications. when withdrawal of a dopaminergic medication is the suspected cause, the agent should be reinstated.
clinical study of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors producing alpha-fetoprotein. we present six patients with intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors that produced alpha-fetoprotein (afp). their ages ranged from 8 to 20 years (average, 11.5 years old); two were male and four were female. four of the tumors originated in the pineal region and two in the suprachiasmatic region. one patient treated with only radiation therapy died within 3 months of admission as a result of intraperitoneal metastasis via a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. another patient, treated with radiation therapy and intrathecal administration of neocarzinostatin, died after 12 months because of tumor progression and subarachnoid dissemination. two patients who received radiation and combination therapy with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin died after 13 and 25 months. the remaining two patients treated with radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy (cisplatin and etoposide) are now alive without recurrence after 16 and 19 months from admission. adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide appears to be efficacious in the treatment of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumor.
blockade of prostaglandin production increases cachectin synthesis and prevents depression of macrophage functions after hemorrhagic shock. although hemorrhage severely depresses macrophage functions, it is not known whether the increased tnf-alpha or pge2 production is responsible for it. to study this c3h/hen mice were bled to mean blood pressure of 35 mmhg for 60 minutes, resuscitated, and treated with either ibuprofen (1.0 mg/kg body weight) or vehicle (saline). hemorrhage increased plasma prostaglandin e2 (pge2) levels by 151.7% +/- 40.0% (p less than 0.05) and significantly decreased peritoneal macrophage (pm phi) antigen presentation (ap) by 60.5% +/- 7.3%, ia expression by 52.3% +/- 7.6%, and interleukin-1 (il-1) synthesis by 60.5% +/- 12.3% compared to shams. however ibuprofen treatment reduced pge2 plasma levels by 61.3% +/- 12.1% and significantly increased ap (+237.0% +/- 95.3%), ia expression (+72.8% +/- 27.5%), il-1 synthesis (+235.7% +/- 134.7%), and cachectin synthesis (+485.8% +/- 209.0%) compared to vehicle-treated animals. these results indicate that prostaglandins but not cachectin are involved in the suppression of pm phi functions following hemorrhage because blockade of prostaglandin synthesis improved depressed macrophage functions despite enhanced cachectin synthesis.
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of crural arteries. the authors dilated 103 stenosed crural arteries in 71 patients. primary success was defined as traversing and reducing the lesion to a residual stenosis of less than 30%. this was achieved in 96% of cases. complications included one vessel rupture and one occluding intimal flap, which were treated by the vascular surgeon with bypass and venous patch, respectively. one hematoma at the puncture site was treated surgically because of its size. with modern materials such as steerable guide wires and low-profile balloon catheters, dilation of crural arteries has become safe. until now, the indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta) of crural arteries have been limited to fontaine stages iii and iv disease. the authors believe that the indications for pta in fontaine stage iib disease are justified, especially if intervention improves outflow after a more proximal recanalizing procedure is performed.
effect of indecainide in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. indecainide, a new antiarrhythmic agent classified as type ic was evaluated in 11 patients with heart disease who had greater than or equal to 30 ventricular premature complexes/hour, moderate-to-marked left ventricular dysfunction, and mean ejection fraction 34% +/- 8%. patients received indecainide, 50 mg by mouth, every 6 hours and the dose was increased until greater than or equal to 80% suppression was noted, adverse effects occurred, or a maximum dose of 100 mg indecainide was given every 6 hours. ventricular premature complexes were suppressed greater than or equal to 80% in nine patients (p less than 0.05) and ventricular tachycardia episodes were completely suppressed in five of eight patients. the effective or maximal mean daily indecainide dose was 191 +/- 32 mg; half of the responders achieved achieved efficacy at serum drug concentration greater than or equal to 600 ng/ml. serum drug concentration was directly related to gender (r = 0.78, p less than 0.04) and inversely related to creatinine clearance (r = 0.74, p less than 0.05) and ejection fraction (r = 0.71, p less than 0.02). indecainide prolonged mean pr and qrs intervals (p less than 0.05) but not qt or qtc. there was a linear relation between percent change in pr (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001) and qrs (r = 0.66, p less than 0.001) intervals and serum drug concentration. after starting or increasing the dose, careful observation of patients with decreased renal function or reduced ejection fraction should be exercised because they attain higher drug concentration than normal subjects.
evolution of in vitro transformation and tumorigenesis of hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized primary cervical epithelial cells. cervical carcinoma develops through a progressive spectrum of premalignant intraepithelial lesions (cin i-iii), the majority of which are associated with human papillomavirus (hpv) types 16 and 18. we established hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized human cervical epithelial cell lines and used them as a model to investigate the genesis and progression of cervical malignancy. the cell lines when cultured in vitro in a system mimicking their in vivo environment exhibit cytologic atypia and a variety of defects in morphologic differentiation at early passage compared to their normal counterparts. with increased passage, these alterations progress to more severe grades, histologically similar to cin iii; however only a limited number of the cell lines are tumorigenic, mimicking the epidemiologic evidence on the rate of conversion from premalignant to invasive carcinoma. the observed changes are not associated with alterations of viral dna integration or expression and may reflect specific cellular events or changes in virus-host interactions associated with malignant progression.
biphasic modulation of acetaminophen bioactivation and hepatotoxicity by pretreatment with the interferon inducer polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. interferons and interferon induction can inhibit cytochromes p-450 and reduce the bioactivation and hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen. however, since p-450 inhibition often is followed by p-450 induction, which would enhance acetaminophen hepatotoxicity, the possibility of a biphasic modulation of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity by interferons was investigated. outbred male cd-1 mice of various ages, and young inbred male c57bl/6 mice were given the interferon inducer, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly i-c), 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally, followed 1 to 48 days later by a single dose of acetaminophen, 300 to 450 mg/kg intraperitoneally. hepatotoxicity was assessed by the peak plasma concentration of alanine aminotransferase (alt) occurring between 0 and 48 hr after acetaminophen treatment. poly i-c inhibited the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen given within 8 days, with maximal inhibition between 1 and 4 days. conversely, a maximal 7-fold enhancement of alt concentration was observed in cd-1 mice when 300 mg/kg of acetaminophen was given 32 days after poly i-c (p less than 0.05). in the c57bl/6 strain, poly i-c inhibited the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen when given within 16 days, whereas a maximal 20-fold enhancement of alt concentration was observed when 300 mg/kg of acetaminophen was given 24 days after poly i-c (p less than 0.05). the mechanism of toxicologic enhancement was examined in male c57bl/6 mice using the same treatment regimen. biochemical assessment of hepatotoxicity was confirmed by detailed histologic evaluation. plasma concentrations of acetaminophen and metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. acetaminophen bioactivation was quantified by production of the glutathione-derived cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates of acetaminophen. poly i-c pretreatment produced a 5-fold increase in acetaminophen-induced alt release (p less than 0.05), which correlated with histologic evidence of centrilobular necrosis. poly i-c pretreatment produced respective 3-fold and 1.3-fold increases in the production of cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates (p less than 0.05), which correlated with peak alt concentrations (cysteine, r = 0.92, p less than 0.001; mercapturic acid, r = 0.75, p = 0.006). thus, the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen can be inhibited when given within days after interferon induction, and conversely enhanced when given after several weeks. the toxicologic enhancement appears to be due to increased p-450-catalyzed bioactivation of acetaminophen.
identification, prevention, and treatment of silicone oil pupillary block after an inferior iridectomy. we treated two patients in whom silicone oil pupillary block developed despite a patent inferior iridectomy. the clinical characteristics of this complication were a deep anterior chamber, specular reflexes from the iris surface, identification by biomicroscopy of aqueous trapped inferiorly in the vitreous cavity, and no convection currents in the anterior chamber. this complication may be prevented by early face-down positioning of the patient after the operation, and the avoidance of large, centrally located, inferior iridectomies. we recommend that the iridectomy be placed peripherally no larger than 2 mm and propose a new technique for breaking the silicone oil block, which was clearly successful in one of the patients.
deep venous thrombosis: longitudinal study with duplex us. forty-nine patients with deep venous thrombosis (dvt) of the lower limb were studied with repeated duplex ultrasound (us) for at least 1 year or until the vein became normal at us. standard anticoagulant therapy was given for 3 months. in 36 patients, the veins became normal within 1 year. the likelihood of normalization increased if the lesion was located in only one site, if the pelvic veins were unaffected, if the affected leg was the left one, if the initial clot was nonocclusive, if there was no history of dvt, and if the symptoms had lasted less than than 24 hours. the average time before normalization was shorter if the symptoms had lasted less than 24 hours, that is, 11 weeks versus 25 weeks (p less than .02). the rate of sequelae at 1 year was lower if the us scan was normal or showed regression at 3 months, 6% versus 83% (p less than .00005).
role of leukotriene c4 in mucosal damage caused by necrotizing agents and indomethacin in the rat stomach. intragastric ethanol stimulates mucosal formation of leukotriene c4 in the rat stomach. the present study demonstrates that the increase in leukotriene c4 formation begins within 30 seconds and is maximal within 5 minutes, closely paralleled by the appearance of hemorrhagic lesions. leukotriene c4 formation returns to prechallenge levels within 3 hours, although erosions still persist. intragastric 0.2n naoh, acidified 100 mmol/l taurocholate, 25% nacl, or 0.6n hcl did not consistently increase leukotriene c4 formation despite severe mucosal injury. a number of sulfhydryl-containing or sulfhydryl-blocking agents as well as metals protected against mucosal damage and simultaneously prevented the stimulation of leukotriene c4 formation induced by ethanol. none of the agents increased and some virtually abolished mucosal formation of prostaglandin e2, indicating that gastroprotection can occur completely independently of the endogenous prostaglandin system. the leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitor mk-886 markedly suppressed gastric leukotriene c4 formation but did not protect against damage caused by ethanol, naoh, nacl, or acidified taurocholate. oral indomethacin reduced the ex vivo formation of both prostaglandin e2 and, to a lesser extent, leukotriene c4 in the gastric mucosa, inducing a shift in the balance from protective prostaglandins to proulcerogenic leukotriene c4. pretreatment with mk-886, however, did not significantly diminish indomethacin-induced lesions. these data suggest that leukotriene c4 is not the exclusive mediator of gastric injury caused by necrotizing agents or indomethacin. on the other hand, certain protective compounds exhibit a striking parallelism between protection and inhibition of ethanol-induced leukotriene c4 formation, suggesting that they may affect a target crucial for both mucosal injury and stimulation of 5-lipoxygenase.
persistent neutrophilic meningitis. persistent neutrophilic meningitis is an unusual but distinct clinical variant of chronic meningitis characterized by csf neutrophilia with hypoglycorrhachia which persists for more than 1 week on serial csf studies. documented etiologies include selected bacteria and higher bacteria such as brucella, nocardia and actinomyces as well as "opportunistic" fungi such as candida, aspergillus, the zygomycetes, and pseudallescheria. recognition of the syndrome is important, as empiric therapy (e.g., cotrimoxazole and amphotericin b) may differ significantly from that used for classic chronic meningitis.
hyponatraemia in patients with cirrhosis. hyponatraemia occurs in nearly half of patients in hospital with cirrhosis and ascites, and is due to the excessive retention of free water which results from the kidney's inability to excrete it normally. the morbidity and mortality associated with hyponatraemia is largely attributable to central nervous system disturbances. the degree to which brain water content increases depends on the duration of hyponatraemia and on compensatory mechanisms. altered steroid and peptide hormones in cirrhotic patients may contribute to the development of hyponatraemic encephalopathy, symptoms of which overlap with hepatic encephalopathy and uraemia. the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis is unrelated to the rate of correction of hyponatraemia. the appearance of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic patients, long regarded as a poor prognostic sign, may be a function of unrecognized underlying impaired renal function. therapy for hyponatraemia remains suboptimal.
mandibular osteomyelitis in a patient with sickle cell anemia: report of case. a case is presented in which mandibular osteomyelitis and mental nerve paresthesia developed in a patient with sickle cell anemia. this infection appeared to precipitate a sickle cell crisis. the mechanisms for these patients' propensity to infection and the diagnosis and management of sickle cell osteomyelitis of the jaws are discussed.
cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from nonneoplastic liver. the authors reviewed a series of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) specimens of the liver to identify useful cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) from nonneoplastic liver. ten cytologic features were examined in this study: high cellularity, acinar pattern, trabecular pattern, hyperchromasia, pleomorphism, irregularly granular chromatin, uniformly prominent nucleoli, multiple nucleoli, increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio, and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei. these features were examined in a series of 82 fnab specimens from 52 patients with hcc and 30 patients with nonneoplastic lesions. with the use of a step-wise logistic regression analysis, three features were identified as predictive of hcc: increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio (p = 0.001), trabecular pattern (p = 0.002), and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei (p = 0.03). when these three criteria were used, the sensitivity of diagnosing hcc by fnab was 100%, and the specificity was 87%.
in vitro model of intestinal crypt abscess. a novel neutrophil-derived secretagogue activity. in order to model crypt abscesses, a histological finding which correlates with disease activity in intestinal inflammation, human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (pmn) were layered onto monolayers of the human intestinal epithelial cell line t84, a crypt-like epithelium which is capable of cl- secretion. such pmn-epithelial interaction had no substantial effect on monolayer integrity or function. however, when pmn were stimulated by conditions including those present naturally in the human colonic lumen, monolayers responded with a bumetanide-sensitive short circuit current (isc) indicative of cl- secretion, the basis of secretory diarrhea. this isc response was induced by a neutrophil-derived secretagogue (nds), which was only active when applied to the luminal surface of monolayers and did not require pmn-epithelial contact. nds activity is resistant to boiling, acid, and trypsin and passes a 500 nominal mol wt cutoff filter. nds activity is not secondary to the respiratory burst products o2- or h2o2 and does not appear to be a myeloperoxidase product. we speculate nds elicited cl- secretion may contribute to the secretory diarrhea seen in patients with intestinal inflammation and crypt abscesses.
right-to-left shunt across a patent foramen ovale caused by cardiac tamponade: diagnosis by transesophageal echocardiography. cardiac tamponade can manifest as profound hypoxemia from intracardiac shunting across a patent foramen ovale. as a consequence, pulmonary embolus can be erroneously diagnosed. as demonstrated in the case described herein, transesophageal echocardiography can be useful in determining the correct diagnosis, especially if transthoracic echocardiography is technically limited. in our patient, the findings on transesophageal echocardiography also helped determine the appropriate treatment. the relative inaccessibility of the pericardial effusion to needle drainage prompted open surgical drainage.
radiographic evaluation of suspected small bowel obstruction. plain abdominal radiographs and enteroclysis studies were reviewed blindly in 117 consecutive patients undergoing enteroclysis for suspected small bowel obstruction. plain radiographs were unreliably predictive of the presence of obstruction as determined by enteroclysis and surgery. among patients with normal or abnormal nonspecific plain radiographs, varying degrees of small bowel obstruction were demonstrated by enteroclysis in 22%. conversely, of patients with obstruction on plain radiographs, 42% had either normal enteroclysis studies or only minor adhesions. enteroclysis correctly predicted the presence of obstruction in 100%, the absence of obstruction in 88%, the level (proximal vs distal) of obstruction in 89%, and the etiology of obstruction in 86% of operated patients. enteroclysis is advocated as the definitive study in patients with clinical uncertainty about the diagnosis of small bowel obstruction.
an overview of intimal hyperplasia. many hypotheses have been postulated for the development of intimal hyperplasia in vein and prosthetic grafts. in these hypotheses, the central theme seems to be endothelial injury, but not always denuding injury. as we progress into the biologic era with more sophisticated research tools, the study of the endothelial cell may give us the answers to the problem of intimal hyperplasia. in addition, the leukocyte is still a relatively unknown entity and further modification of their function may hold promise.
influence of preservation or perfusion of intraoperatively identified spinal cord blood supply on spinal motor evoked potentials and paraplegia after aortic surgery. permanent ligation of arteries supplying blood to the spinal cord in operations for aortic aneurysm can lead to spinal cord ischemia, which can result in either paraparesis or paraplegia. this report describes a rapid method of intraoperative identification of those arteries that supply the spinal cord by use of an intrathecal platinum electrode to detect hydrogen in solution that has been injected into the aortic ostia. preservation or perfusion of those identified arteries supplying the spinal cord may decrease the rate of postoperative neurologic complications. of 28 porcine experiments with postoperative observation for 24 hours, there were 3 initial pilot experiments in which saline saturated with hydrogen was injected into the temporarily cross-clamped aorta. twenty animals were then randomized to (1) preservation of only the vessels sequentially identified to supply blood to the spinal cord from t-13 to l-5 (n = 10); (2) division of the vessels supplying the spinal cord (n = 10). a further five animals underwent perfusion experiments wherein the identified cord arteries were perfused by a shunt, the other nonsupply arteries were divided, and the aorta was kept clamped for 45 minutes. spinal motor evoked potentials were elicited with an intrathecal electrode and were highly sensitive for paralysis. paralysis occurred in 0/3 pilot (p less than 0.013 vs division); 8/10 division; 1/10 preservation (p less than 0.0017 vs division); and perfusion 1/5 (p less than 0.025 vs division). results of a pilot study in eight humans shows that the technique can be used to rapidly identify segmental arteries supplying the spinal cord, to determine if distal perfusion is supplying the spinal cord with blood flow, and if reattached segmental arteries are patent.
microvascular sequestration of parasitized erythrocytes in human falciparum malaria: a pathological study. thirty-nine falciparum malaria autopsy cases from the hospital for tropical diseases, mahidol university, bangkok, thailand were divided into two groups that had had either cerebral malaria (cm) or non-cerebral malaria (ncm). we then studied significant pathological differences between these groups in order to investigate the correlation between parasitized erythrocyte (prbc) sequestration in small blood vessels in the brain, heart, lungs and small intestines. we found that the percentage of prbc sequestration in the organs which we studied was higher in the cm patients than in the ncm patients. the difference of prbc sequestration among the organs of two groups was significant (p less than 0.05). in the cm group, the average percentage of prbc sequestration in the brain was significantly higher than in the heart, lungs and small intestines (p less than 0.05). no statistically significant difference was found between prbc sequestration in the brains, hearts, lungs and small intestines in the ncm group (p greater than 0.05). our study indicates that severity of malaria in the cm patients depends on prbc sequestration, especially in the brain. a combination of functional disturbances of the other organs, in addition to the cerebral pathology, may augment the severity of the disease.
traumatic asphyxia. traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema, multiple petechiae, and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen. a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported, and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed.
image cytophotometric dna analysis of atypical hyperplasias and intraductal carcinomas of the breast. with the use of image analysis, dna content was quantified on paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 25 atypical hyperplasias and 35 intraductal carcinomas of the breast by comparison of integrated gray levels of feulgen-stained control and ductal cell nuclei. the mean full-peak (g0/g1) control cell dna histogram coefficient of variation was 5.5%. dna aneuploidy was more common in intraductal carcinomas compared with atypical hyperplasias (71% of intraductal carcinomas vs 36% of atypical hyperplasias) and correlated with a lack of cytologic (nuclear) and architectural differentiation (63% moderate vs 93% poor and 38% cribriform vs 82% solid). in addition, multiple dna stemlines were observed in 40% of intraductal carcinomas. we conclude that (1) some atypical hyperplasias demonstrate abnormal dna content consistent with neoplastic transformation, (2) aggressive forms of intraductal carcinoma are more frequently associated with dna content abnormalities, and (3) frequent dna stemline heterogeneity in intraductal carcinoma supports the hypothesis that multiple genetic events occur in the development of mammary intraepithelial neoplasia.
intraosseous lipoma within the femoral head. a case report. intraosseous lipoma occurring within the femoral head seems not to have been previously reported. symptoms associated with the tumor included slowly increasing pain and a cystic lesion shown on roentgenograms. management was by total hip arthroplasty. pathologic examination of the specimen showed that the tumor was composed almost entirely of mature adipose tissue in keeping with a diagnosis of stage 1 intraosseous lipoma. a sclerotic border and osteoid seams were noted, two features that seem not to have been previously reported in early lesions. recent papers suggest intraosseous lipomas are more common than previously thought, and the femur now accounts for 25% of reported cases.
restenosis after directional coronary atherectomy: differences between primary atheromatous and restenosis lesions and influence of subintimal tissue resection. rates of restenosis were evaluated in 70 patients (74 lesions) after successful directional coronary atherectomy. the extent of vascular tissue resection was correlated with restenosis rates for coronary (n = 59) and vein bypass graft (n = 15) lesions. after 6 months, the overall restenosis rate was 50% (37 of 74 lesions); it was 42% (15 of 36 lesions) when intima alone was resected, 50% (7 of 14 lesions) when media was resected and 63% (15 of 24 lesions) when adventitia was resected. subintimal tissue resection increased the restenosis rate for vein grafts (43% with intimal resection versus 100% with subintimal resection, p = 0.01) but not for coronary arteries (50% versus 48%). there was no overall difference in restenosis rates after atherectomy between primary lesions and restenosis lesions that occurred after balloon angioplasty (46% versus 54%). among postballoon angioplasty restenosis lesions, a higher rate of restenosis after atherectomy was found with subintimal than with intimal resection (78% versus 32%, p = 0.01). tissues from patients undergoing a second atherectomy for restenosis after initial atherectomy (n = 8) demonstrated neointimal hyperplasia that appeared histologically identical to restenotic tissue developing after balloon angioplasty (n = 37). these data suggest that the cellular response to directional coronary atherectomy is characterized by neointimal proliferation similar to that which may develop after balloon angioplasty. the extent of fibrous hyperplasia appears to be related to the depth of tissue resection in vein graft lesions and coronary artery restenosis lesions that occur after balloon angioplasty but not in primary atheromatous coronary artery lesions.
post-traumatic basal ganglia hemorrhage: analysis of 52 patients with emphasis on the final outcome. a series of 52 patients suffering post-traumatic basal ganglia hemorrhage (bgh) after closed head injury is reviewed. post-traumatic bgh was associated with other intracranial lesions in most cases. the outcome in this series is rather good, with 53.8% of patients having a functional survival. radiologically, the post-traumatic intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) and brainstem hemorrhage usually coexisted with a poor outcome. old age (greater than 60), abnormal pupil reaction, impaired oculocephalic response, and abnormal motor response to pain stimuli are reliable clinical hallmarks for poor prognosis.
seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children. background. although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades, some patients are left with neurologic sequelae. it has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae, including late seizures or epilepsy. methods. we followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis. the mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years (range, 0.1 to 15.5). during the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter. results. one month after meningitis, 69 children (37 percent) had neurologic abnormalities. many of these signs resolved within a year, leaving only 26 children (14 percent) with persistent deficits: 18 (10 percent) had only sensorineural hearing loss, and 8 (4 percent) had multiple neurologic deficits. thirteen children (7 percent) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever. the presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures (p less than 0.001). conclusions. after bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy. those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae, including epilepsy.
cavernous-carotid thrombosis and ocular motor paresis a 64-year-old man presented with the acute onset of unilateral blindness and ipsilateral ocular motor paresis. occlusion of the central retinal artery associated with thrombosis of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus was demonstrated by angiography and magnetic resonance imaging. cases of carotid thrombosis associated with ipsilateral ocular motor paresis are rare. the pathophysiology of intracavernous carotid thrombosis is discussed in connection with blood supply of the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus.
titrated intravenous barbiturates in the control of symptoms in patients with terminal cancer. patients with terminal cancer may have a series of severe and dehumanizing physical and psychologic symptoms. to improve symptom control in the final days and hours of life, we administer intravenous barbiturates continuously to provide heavy sedation or continuous somnolence. titrated dosage is then reduced to a minimum, after a desired steady-state has been achieved. improved symptom control is provided, and the patient's dignity is maintained until death.
diagnostic relevance of clonal cytogenetic aberrations in malignant soft-tissue tumors. background. malignant soft-tissue tumors often present substantial diagnostic challenges. chromosome aberrations that might be diagnostic have been identified in some types of soft-tissue tumors, but the overall frequency and diagnostic relevance of these aberrations have not been established. methods. we attempted to determine the karyotypes of a series of 62 consecutive, unselected malignant spindle-cell or small round-cell soft-tissue tumors (from 46 adults and 16 children) after direct harvesting of cells or short-term culture. all tumors were examined independently by immunohistochemical staining in addition to routine light-microscopical evaluation, and all but two tumors were examined by electron microscopy. results. metaphases were obtained from 61 of the 62 tumors, and clonal chromosome aberrations were identified in 55 (89 percent). in the six tumors that yielded metaphases but lacked apparent clonal aberrations, the normal metaphases were found to originate from non-neoplastic stromal elements within the tumor specimens. thus, all tumors in which karyotyping was successful contained clonal chromosome aberrations. forty of 62 tumors (65 percent) contained clonal chromosome aberrations that either suggested or confirmed a specific diagnosis; in 15 of these tumors (24 percent of all tumors), the aberrations were important in establishing the final diagnosis. cytogenetic analyses were particularly informative about small round-cell tumors from children: 8 of 14 round-cell tumors contained diagnostically important chromosome aberrations. using the combined approaches of light and electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and cytogenetics, we established an unambiguous diagnosis for 60 of 62 tumors. conclusions. cytogenetic analyses reveal clonal chromosome aberrations in virtually all malignant soft-tissue tumors. these clonal chromosome aberrations, particularly in small round-cell tumors in children, often have diagnostic relevance.
adjuvant topical chemotherapy versus immunotherapy in primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. in a prospective randomised controlled study, the efficacy of ethoglucid was compared with that of keyhole-limpet haemocyanin (klh) in preventing recurrent tumours following transurethral resection of primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. patients treated with ethoglucid (n = 39) received 0.565 g (1% solution) ethoglucid weekly for 6 weeks and then monthly for 1 year. patients treated with klh (n = 38) were immunised subcutaneously with 1 mg klh; bladder instillations of 30 mg were then given weekly for 6 weeks and thereafter monthly for 1 year. the recurrence rates, disease-free intervals and tumour progression rates were evaluated. the end-point of the study was either progression in stage or grade or more than 1 recurrence during the observation period. the minimum length of follow-up was 1 year. the recurrence rates, mean disease-free intervals and progression rates in the 2 groups showed no statistically significant differences.
why is diabetes mellitus a stronger risk factor for fatal ischemic heart disease in women than in men? the rancho bernardo study [published erratum appears in jama 1991 jun 26;265(24):3249] we report here the 14-year sex-specific effect of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus on the risk of fatal ischemic heart disease in a geographically defined population of men and women aged 40 through 79 years. there were 207 men and 127 women who had diabetes at baseline based on medical history or fasting hyperglycemia. they were compared with 2137 adults who had fasting euglycemia and a negative personal and family history of diabetes. the relative hazard of ischemic heart disease death in diabetics vs nondiabetics was 1.8 in men and 3.3 in women, after adjusting for age, and 1.9 and 3.3, respectively, after adjusting for age, systolic blood pressure, cholesterol, body mass index, and cigarette smoking using the cox regression model. the sex difference in the independent contribution of diabetes to fatal heart disease was largely explained by the persistently more favorable survival rate of women (than men) without diabetes.
intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to amyloidosis responsive to cisapride. a case of chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to systemic amyloidosis in a patient with multiple myeloma is described. gastrointestinal symptoms and indices of nutrition improved markedly after commencing treatment with cisapride, which may have been responsible for relatively prolonged survival compared with similar reported cases.
current status of antitachycardia devices. with the limitations of currently available modalities for treating clinically important tachycardias, the role of implanted antitachycardia devices will continue to expand. the challenge of the future will not only involve continued technological advances but the socioeconomic impact of this efficacious but expensive mode of therapy in an era of increasing financial restraints. further studies to definitively prove the efficacy of more widespread use of antitachycardia device therapy will be needed.
superiority of transesophageal echocardiography in detecting cardiac source of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemia of uncertain etiology. the diagnostic yield of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography for identifying a cardiac source of embolism was compared in 79 patients presenting with unexplained stroke or transient ischemic attack. there were 35 men and 44 women with a mean age of 59 years (range 17 to 84); 52% had clinical cardiac disease. both transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiograms were performed using doppler color flow and contrast imaging. transesophageal echocardiography identified a potential cardiac source of embolism in 57% of the overall study group compared with only 15% by transthoracic echocardiography (p less than 0.0005). compared with transthoracic echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography more frequently identified atrial septal aneurysm associated with a patent foramen ovale (9 versus 1 of 79 patients, p less than 0.005), left atrial thrombus or tumor (6 versus 0 of 79 patients, p less than 0.05) and left atrial spontaneous contrast (13 versus 0 of 79 patients, p less than 0.0005). all cases of left atrial thrombus or spontaneous contrast were identified in patients with clinically identified cardiac disease. in the 38 patients with no cardiac disease, transesophageal echocardiography identified isolated atrial septal aneurysm and atrial septal aneurysm with a patent foramen ovale more frequently than transthoracic echocardiography (8 versus 2 of 38 patients, p less than 0.05). the two techniques had a similar rate of identifying apical thrombus and mitral valve prolapse. overall, transesophageal echocardiography identified abnormalities in 39% of patients with no cardiac disease versus 19% for transthoracic echocardiography (p less than 0.005). thus, transesophageal echocardiography identifies potential cardiac sources of embolism in the majority of patients presenting with unexplained stroke.
high-frequency oscillatory ventilation compared with conventional intermittent mechanical ventilation in the treatment of respiratory failure in preterm infants: neurodevelopmental status at 16 to 24 months of postterm age. the hifi study group. the high-frequency intervention trial was a 10-center randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy and safety of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation (hfo) in the treatment of neonates weighing 750 to 2000 gm; 327 infants were assigned to hfo and 346 to conventional intermittent mechanical ventilation (imv). survival and lung morbidity rates were the same in the two groups. bayley psychometric evaluations and cns examination were performed at 16 to 24 months of postterm age in 77% of the survivors (185 hfo and 201 imv). there was no difference in growth or respiratory status at follow-up. cerebral palsy was diagnosed in 19 (10%) hfo-treated infants and 23 (11%) imv-treated infants. there was no difference in severity between the two groups. a significantly higher incidence of hydrocephalus (12% vs 6%) was present in the hfo group (p less than 0.05). bayley index scores greater than 83 were scored in 57% of hfo-treated infants compared with 66% of imv-treated infants. the proportion of children at follow-up with a normal neuro-developmental status (i.e., bayley score greater than 83 and no major cns defect) was significantly less in the hfo than in the imv group (54 vs 65%; p less than 0.05). both treatment groups showed a strong association between the presence of grade 3 or 4 intraventricular hemorrhage and the development of major cns or cognitive defects. no significant long-term beneficial or deleterious effects were demonstrated in the use of hfo versus imv for the treatment of respiratory failure in low birth weight premature infants, except that there were slightly more neurologic deficits in the hfo group related to the higher proportion of survivors with major intraventricular hemorrhage.
ehrlichiosis in children. tick-borne rickettsiae of the genus ehrlichia have recently been recognized as a cause of human illness in the united states. in the years 1986-1988, 10 cases of ehrlichiosis were diagnosed in children in oklahoma. fever and headache were universal: myalgias, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia were also common. rash was observed in six patients but was a prominent finding in only one. leukopenia, lymphopenia, and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory abnormalities. six patients were treated with tetracycline, three with chloramphenicol, and one was not treated with antibiotics: all recovered. the onset of illness in spring and early summer for most cases paralleled the time when amblyomma americanum and dermacentor variabilis are most active, suggesting that one or both ticks may be vectors of human ehrlichiosis in oklahoma.
squamous carcinoma of the posterior pharyngeal wall. we have reviewed a 12-year experience with 295 patients treated for squamous carcinoma of the pharynx in order to focus on 78 patients whose lesions arose in the posterior wall. surgery was the definitive therapy for the primary tumor in 57 (73%), including 3 treatment groups. thirty-two patients had limited resections that preserved the larynx, involving local excision (7 patients), anterior pharyngotomy (7 patients), lateral pharyngotomy (6 patients), median labiomandibular glossotomy (6 patients), or median mandibulotomy with paralingual extension (6 patients). the second group consisted of 21 patients with more extensive tumors who required a laryngectomy and complex reconstruction, often with postoperative radiotherapy. finally, there were four patients who developed metachronous second primaries in the pharynx subsequent to a laryngectomy. all required flap reconstruction. of the 21 patients whose primary treatment was radiotherapy, 5 had lesions that were implanted after access was provided by a mandibulotomy. cumulative 5-year survival was 32% and ranged from 44% in those with favorable lesions to 15% in those with extensive tumors. our experience highlights the variety of treatment approaches available in patients with pharyngeal carcinomas confined to the posterior wall. surgery in this setting carries acceptable morbidity and yields survival rates that compare favorably with those achieved by external radiation therapy alone. results in patients with extensive lesions still leave much to be desired, despite radical surgery and aggressive radiotherapy. innovative brachytherapy techniques using surgery for access deserve further investigation.
ct diagnosis of acquired small bowel volvulus. small-bowel volvulus is an uncommon but important cause of small-bowel obstruction and often results in ischemia or infarction. clinical examination and plain film radiography may be nondiagnostic, leading to delay in surgical intervention with subsequent increase in morbidity and mortality. we present two patients in whom the diagnosis of strangulating small-bowel volvulus was made by computed tomography (ct), allowing rapid surgical correction of this potentially life-threatening condition.
a pitfall in azygos vein cannulation in cirrhotic patients: mistaken cannulation of the mammary vein. azygos venous flow can be measured by a thermodilution catheter in patients with cirrhosis. this is a useful technique since azygos flow is thought to reflect the superior portosystemic collateral flow in these patients. the authors report 3 cases in which mistaken internal mammary vein cannulation mimicked azygos vein cannulation in the supine fluoroscopic view. a lateral fluoroscopic view confirmed internal mammary cannulation. they suggest that if the azygos arch is unpronounced or flow measurements are unexpectedly low in patients with portal hypertension due to cirrhosis, a lateral view be performed to rule out internal mammary vein cannulation.
adenocarcinoma arising in a foregut cyst of the mediastinum. a case of malignant transformation in a mediastinal cyst of the esophageal reduplication type is presented. the cyst had been recognized 39 years previously, but remained asymptomatic until sudden growth occurred. it was resected totally from the esophagus and the patient recovered well. a review of the literature showed that malignancy in mediastinal foregut cysts is extremely rare.
flow cytometric evaluation of chemosensitive and chemoresistant head and neck tumors. for patients with head and neck squamous carcinoma, a clinical response to induction chemotherapy has correlated with a survival advantage. similarly, patients with diploid tumors have displayed a survival advantage when compared with patients with aneuploid tumors. this study examined dna content in 33 patients who had undergone induction chemotherapy as part of two clinical protocols to determine if there was a correlation between the patients with diploid tumors and the patients with a clinical response to chemotherapy. although patients with stage iii tumors had a longer disease-free survival than stage iv patients (p less than 0.0002), the addition of dna content information did not improve the ability to predict response. specifically, there was no correlation between dna content and the response to chemotherapy. in addition, for this group of patients, a diploid dna content was not correlated with a survival advantage. we conclude that dna content information did not add significantly to the prediction of clinical outcome in these patients who received induction chemotherapy.
an insertion/deletion polymorphism in the angiotensin i-converting enzyme gene accounting for half the variance of serum enzyme levels. a polymorphism consisting of the presence or absence of a 250-bp dna fragment was detected within the angiotensin i-converting enzyme gene (ace) using the endothelial ace cdna probe. this polymorphism was used as a marker genotype in a study involving 80 healthy subjects, whose serum ace levels were concomitantly measured. allele frequencies were 0.6 for the shorter allele and 0.4 for the longer allele. a marked difference in serum ace levels was observed between subjects in each of the three ace genotype classes. serum immunoreactive ace concentrations were, respectively, 299.3 +/- 49, 392.6 +/- 66.8, and 494.1 +/- 88.3 micrograms/liter, for homozygotes with the longer allele (n = 14), and heterozygotes (n = 37) and homozygotes (n = 29) with the shorter allele. the insertion/deletion polymorphism accounted for 47% of the total phenotypic variance of serum ace, showing that the ace gene locus is the major locus that determines serum ace concentration. concomitant determination of the ace genotype will improve discrimination between normal and abnormal serum ace values by allowing comparison with a more appropriate reference interval.
rapid percutaneous tracheostomy we describe a new method of performing percutaneous tracheostomy rapidly and safely using a specialized instrument kit. the technique permits the safe insertion of a full-sized 7.0 (id) or 7.5 mm (id) cuffed cannula into the trachea within 1-2 min, through the membranous second intercartilagenous space. animal studies have demonstrated a superior healing process compared to that seen after conventional tracheostomy techniques.
portal venous gas in a patient with crohn's disease. portal venous gas usually occurs in the setting of an acute abdomen. several causes for benign portal venous gas (pvg) have been reported. we describe the finding of pvg by computed tomography in a febrile patient with crohn's disease and discuss the clinical implications of such a finding.
medicare peer review organization preprocedure review criteria. an analysis of criteria for three procedures the medicare peer review organization (pro) program includes preprocedure review using explicit criteria to assess the appropriateness of specific procedures. this study evaluates the variability in the pro preprocedure criteria for the three procedures most frequently reviewed by pros: carotid endarterectomy, cataract removal, and cardiac pacemaker implants. in august 1989, the pro review criteria were received from the health care financing administration. to provide a reference point for reviewing the pro criteria, national practice guidelines for these three procedures were identified. wide variability was demonstrated in the pro procedure-specific carotid endarterectomy and cataract removal review criteria among pros, and the criteria differed significantly from the identified practice guidelines. the criteria for cardiac pacemaker implants were somewhat less variable, and were based, to varying degrees, on practice guidelines developed by the american college of cardiology (acc). greater attention is needed to improve the development of review criteria, including the use of relevant practice guidelines, to ensure that review criteria are optimal.
adjuvant antiestrogen therapy for breast cancer. past, present, and future. laboratory investigations using animal models of breast cancer growth have indicated that the antiestrogenic compound tamoxifen is a tumoristatic agent. it is therefore effective in suppressing, rather than destroying, the breast tumor. its use as an adjuvant in breast cancer management has been successful, with a proportion of women benefiting from long periods of tamoxifen treatment. all the initial studies recruited postmenopausal women, but tamoxifen is now proposed for the treatment of premenopausal women for an extended time. naturally, there are many aspects of the toxicology of tamoxifen to consider; however, careful monitoring of clinical trials will determine the safety of the drug for the general patient population.
a positron emission tomographic comparison of pulmonary vascular permeability during the adult respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia. we measured extravascular density (evd) and the pulmonary transcapillary escape rate (ptcer) for 68ga-transferrin using positron emission tomography in 14 normal volunteers and 29 patients with radiographic infiltrates, including six patients with congestive heart failure (chf), eight patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ards), and 15 patients with focal pneumonia. contralateral, radiographically normal regions were also evaluated in the patients with focal pneumonia. mean evd was elevated in the patients with chf, ards, and pneumonia in regions of radiographic infiltrate compared with values from normal subjects (p less than 0.05), but it was not significantly different among the three patient groups. ptcer in normal subjects and in patients with chf was not significantly different (21 +/- 11 versus 44 +/- 16 x 10(-4) min-1, respectively, p = ns). ptcer was elevated in regions of infiltrate because of either pneumonia (173 +/- 99) or ards (170 +/- 79). ptcer was also elevated in regions contralateral to those with focal infiltrate during pneumonia, even though these regions were radiographically normal and had normal evd values. these results suggest that ptcer is a sensitive but nonspecific index of abnormal pulmonary vascular permeability, which may be useful for classifying patients in clinical studies of pulmonary edema.
effects of fish-oil ingestion on cardiovascular risk factors in hyperlipidemic subjects in israel: a randomized, double-blind crossover study. effects of a daily fish-oil supplement on serum lipids, apolipoproteins, and some platelet functions and hemorheologic variables were examined in 27 hyperlipidemic subjects in a randomized, controlled, double-blind, crossover fashion with an identically encapsulated vegetable oil serving as the control treatment. despite the habitual high linoleic acid intake of the study population, significant incorporation of n-3 (omega-3) fatty acids into the serum, platelet, and erythrocyte lipids was observed after the fish-oil supplement. ingestion of fish oil resulted in a 40% decrease in the triglyceride concentration, a 12% increase in hdl cholesterol, and a significant decrease in plasma viscosity, whereas the vegetable-oil placebo had no significant effect. we conclude that a moderate intake of fish oil (15 g/d) is a feasible treatment for hypertriglyceridemia even in patients with a background of high linoleic acid intake and that it may have a beneficial effect on several cardiovascular risk factors.
mesial temporal sclerosis: pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management. mesial temporal sclerosis (mts) is probably the most common symptomatic pathologic entity--alone or mixed with other pathologic features--for seizures of temporal lobe origin. the pathophysiology of mts, including any genetic influence, needs clarification. a characteristic ictal expression for seizures of mts origin appears not to exist. the majority of patients (78%) with postresection mts who are seizure-free have tightly localized interictal abnormalities restricted to f7/f8, sp1/sp2, t3/t4, and t5/t6 more than 96% of the time. mri abnormalities may be seen in 55% of patients with mts if both "hard" and "soft" criteria are used or in 20% when only "hard" criteria are used. the neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with mts, which includes intracarotid amobarbital test (iat), may prove to be increasingly useful in identifying patterns of cognitive deficit that correlate with enhancement of both lateralizing and localizing preoperative information.
cerebrospinal fluid dynamics in the tardive cauda equina syndrome of ankylosing spondylitis. typical cauda equina syndrome secondary to long-standing ankylosing spondylitis is reported in a 63-year-old man. radionuclide cisternography demonstrated a resorption defect of cerebrospinal fluid in the enlarged lumbosacral dural sac. after transient symptomatic improvement with acetazolamide, a lumboperitoneal shunt was placed. the rate of cerebrospinal fluid, isotope resorption became normal. in the 5 years of follow-up, partial remission has been observed.
infrarenal abdominal aortic disease: a review of the retroperitoneal approach. transabdominal exposure is the most widely used surgical approach to the infrarenal aorta. over the last 30 years a number of surgeons have championed the retroperitoneal approach for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and aortoiliac occlusive disease using a variety of incisions. several studies attest to the clinical superiority of this approach over the transabdominal route and recent evidence demonstrates reduced physiological disturbance with this technique. the retroperitoneal approach is suitable for all elective operations on the abdominal aorta, particularly in patients with high-risk aneurysms and in selected patients with symptomatic and ruptured aneurysms.
perirectal abscess in crohn's disease. drainage and outcome. the role of surgical intervention in the treatment of patients with anorectal crohn's disease is controversial. to clarify the success of aggressive drainage and the subsequent clinical course of patients with crohn's disease and perirectal abscesses, the authors reviewed the records of 38 patients who presented with this condition during an eight-year period. twenty-two male and 16 female patients (median age, 32 years; range, 17 to 61 years) with clinically or pathologically confirmed crohn's disease of the bowel underwent operation for perirectal abscesses. thirty-two percent of patients had no previous history of anorectal crohn's disease. thirty simple abscesses and 8 complex horseshoe abscesses were treated. at operation, 53 percent of patients underwent incision and drainage whereas 26 percent received loop indwelling drains and 21 percent had mushroom catheters placed. after resolution of the index abscess, recurrent abscesses occurred in 45 percent of the patients who underwent catheter drainage and 56 percent of the patients who underwent incision and drainage. more importantly, 44 percent of the incision and drainage group and only 31 percent of the catheter drainage group required subsequent proctectomy to control perineal sepsis. the healing time of the perineal wound was longer than six months in 83 percent of patients requiring rectal excision. we concluded that long-term catheter drainage may offer substantial benefit in the overall outcome of the treatment of patients with crohn's disease and perirectal abscess.
changes in the postenteropathic form of the hemolytic uremic syndrome in children. an analysis was made of clinical and laboratory findings in children with the diarrheal form of the hemolytic uremic syndrome (hus) treated at the children's hospital, birmingham between 1970 und 1987. from 1982 the rate of referral increased, the prodromal illness more often consisted of bloody diarrhea, and the mean age at presentation doubled from 2 to 4 years. for patients with a good outcome there was an excess of males in the period 1970-81, and females in the period 1982-87. moreover, in the years 1982-87 the disorder was distinguished from that of the earlier time by a positive correlation between adverse outcome and both neutrophil leukocytosis and a higher hemoglobin concentration at presentation. prognostic scores obtained by logistic regression analysis were specific for each period. from july 1983 stool samples were analyzed for verocytotoxin-producing escherichia coli (vtec) and neutralizable verotoxin. positive results were obtained in 39% of cases. the nature of hus has changed and the new form of the disorder is associated with vtec infection.
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome). five patients with kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain, peripheral arterial aneurysms, digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction. as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery, which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent, the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy.
role of mastectomy in breast cancer. the surgical management of breast cancer continues to evolve in an attempt to define the ideal line between therapeutic efficacy and morbidity. it is clear that breast cancer is a biologically heterogeneous group of diseases, and no single hypothesis explains its behavior. the surgical options proposed to the individual patient must draw from the experience of retrospective clinical studies and prospective randomized trials in an attempt to optimize the treatment plan. most patients without distant disease are eligible to consider mastectomy, which can accomplish excellent local control and significantly improve survival for earlier stages of disease. however, breast conservation remains an appropriate alternative for a carefully defined subset of patients. today, with early-stage disease, no patient need leave the operating room without a breast. recent advances in reconstructive surgery make mastectomy with immediate reconstruction or limited resection plus axillary dissection with postoperative radiation therapy the two principal treatment choices available. future studies will focus on the integration of other treatment modalities. clinical research into the use of preoperative chemotherapy to downstage the disease to permit less extensive surgery is of interest. recent application of molecular biologic techniques such as oncogene analysis, cytogenetic studies, proliferative indices, and the highly sensitive detection of distant micrometastases using monoclonal antibodies may assist in the design of innovative approaches to surgery, radiation therapy, and systemic drug treatment. these advances show great promise for improving the quality of life and the cure rate for patients with breast cancer. today, surgical treatment options have evolved that fulfill some of the objectives outlined by dr. james ewing of memorial hospital some 50 years ago. his concerns about breast cancer remain as relevant today as they were half a century ago: "i have drawn the impression that in dealing with mammary cancer, surgery meets with more peculiar difficulties and uncertainties than with almost any other form of the disease. the anatomical types are so numerous, the variations in clinical course so wide, the paths of dissemination so free and diverse, the difficulties of determining the actual conditions so complex, and the sacrifice of tissues so great, as to render impossible in the majority of cases a reasonably accurate adjustment of a means to an end.".
fetal alcohol syndrome in adolescents and adults. fetal alcohol syndrome is a specific recognizable pattern of malformation. manifestations in 61 adolescents and adults suffering from alcohol teratogenesis are presented. after puberty, the faces of patients with fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol effects were not as distinctive. patients tended to remain short and microcephalic, although their weight was somewhat closer to the mean. the average iq was 68, but the range of iq scores widely varied. average academic functioning was at the second- to fourth-grade levels, with arithmetic deficits most characteristic. maladaptive behaviors such as poor judgment, distractibility, and difficulty perceiving social cues were common. family environments were remarkably unstable. fetal alcohol syndrome is not just a childhood disorder; there is a predictable long-term progression of the disorder into adulthood, in which maladaptive behaviors present the greatest challenge to management.
from disease to delirium: managing the declining elderly patient. many geriatric patients have concurrent physical and psychiatric illnesses, but at times it may be difficult to determine which is primary. delirium, a transient syndrome that presents with psychiatric symptoms, is usually the manifestation of an organic disorder and, if undetected and untreated, can be fatal. clinicians, therefore, must learn to recognize the syndrome, search diligently for the underlying etiology, and treat accordingly.
a comparison of coarctation resection and subclavian flap angioplasty using ultrasonographically monitored postocclusive reactive hyperemia the reported relatively high incidence of early restenosis at the coarctation repair site with subclavian flap angioplasty, especially in infants less than 3 months of age, prompted a physiologically oriented analysis of relief of obstruction from coarctation after subclavian flap angioplasty versus resection and end-to-end anastomosis in infancy. twenty-one patients who had undergone repair of coarctation in infancy by either subclavian flap angioplasty (nine patients) (median age 8 years) or resection and end-to-end anastomosis (12 patients) (median age 8 years) were evaluated by doppler spectrum analysis of the blood flow velocities in the femoral artery at rest and during reactive hyperemia. the median resting right upper to lower limb systolic pressure difference (with interquartile range) was similar in the angioplasty, resection and anastomosis, and control groups: -5 mm hg (18 mm hg), 0 mm hg (12 mm hg), and -2.5 mm hg (10 mm hg), respectively. also, similar resting values for the maximum frequency of the advancing curve and the pulsatility and resistance indices were measured in the three groups. during reactive hyperemia of the leg, however, a significant hemodynamic obstruction across the repair site became clinically manifest in the angioplasty group only, as documented by a lower pulsatility index in comparison with the control group (p = 0.01, mann-whitney u test). comparison of the hemodynamic results between the angioplasty and resection and anastomosis groups in subdivisions of infants operated on at an age of less or greater than 3 months, both at rest and during reactive hyperemia, showed, already at rest, a significantly lower value for the pulsatility index in the former angioplasty subdivision (p = 0.05, student's t test), indicating a significant resistance at the coarctation repair site in the angioplasty patients operated on before the third month of life. a disadvantage of angioplasty (compared with resection and anastomosis) was noted when angioplasty was performed before the third month of life, and an unequivocal lack of advantage was noted when performed beyond that period regarding relief of obstruction from coarctation. in addition, a definite potential for adverse long-term effects on the hemodynamics of the left upper limb after subclavian flap angioplasty in infancy has been documented. for these reasons we prefer to perform resection and end-to-end anastomosis for repair of coarctation in infancy.
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation. a newly identified condition. a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described. in the affected family, at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life. three members of the family have been studied in detail. each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night. constipation was an associated symptom, in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation. clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance. the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity. anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter. two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain. the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes, consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis. in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline, isoprenaline, carbachol, dimethylpiperazinium, and electrical-field stimulation. immunohistochemical studies for substance p, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neuropeptide y, and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue. a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized.
fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration for bladder cancer. intravesical administration of bacillus calmette-guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer. complications from bacillus calmette-guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur. five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus calmette-guerin sepsis. one man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 c. two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death. sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid, rifampin and streptomycin. two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment. triple antituberculous antibiotics, including cycloserine, may be lifesaving. sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium. bacillus calmette-guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization.
results of intracoronary stents for management of coronary dissection after balloon angioplasty. dissections after coronary balloon angioplasty are risk factors for acute or subacute vessel closures. intracoronary stenting was developed to avoid these complications by pressing the intimal and medial flaps against the vessel wall, thus reducing the risk of acute thrombosis. a total of 22 stents were implanted into the coronary arteries of 15 patients with dissections after balloon angioplasty causing angina pectoris or ischemic electrocardiographic changes. stent delivery was successful in all cases. in 1 patient acute stent thrombosis was documented and treated successfully by thrombolytic therapy. another patient underwent coronary artery bypass surgery 24 hours later because of persisting angina. angiograms after 24 hours documented vessel patency in the remaining 14 patients. late control angiograms after 4 to 6 months were obtained in 12 of 14 patients. vessel patency without significant restenosis was observed in 8 patients, restenosis in 3 and reocclusion in 1 patient. all 3 patients with multiple stent implantation had restenosis (n = 2) or reocclusion (n = 1), compared with 1 patient with single stent implantation. thus, intracoronary stenting appears to be a secure and effective method of handling bailout situations caused by dissection after balloon angioplasty, with good long-term results when only a single stent is implanted.
estimation of pr and er by immunocytochemistry in breast cancer. comparison with radioligand binding methods. immunocytochemical assays for progesterone receptor (pr) using monoclonal antirabbit pr antibodies (pr-ica) and for estrogen receptor (er) (er-ica) were compared with radioligand binding (dextran-coated charcoal [dcc]) methods for receptor determination in patients with breast cancer. immunocytochemical staining for pr was exclusively nuclear in localization. in this regard, pr staining is similar to previous findings for er; pr-ica showed a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 100%. er-ica was also 89% sensitive and similarly specific. there was good correlation between the degree and intensity of staining and quantitative binding of radioligand. receptor-positive tumors, however, show considerable variation of immunocytochemical staining, suggesting heterogeneity of cellular pr content. the availability of an immunocytochemical assay for pr increases the discriminatory potential for these methods of receptor determination.
cimetidine suppresses chemically induced experimental hepatic porphyria. the ability of cimetidine to reduce the activity of hepatic aminolevulinic acid synthase (ala-s) was examined in allylisopropyl acetamide (aia) treated porphyric adult rats. a dose of 20 mg cimetidine/100 gm body weight resulted in a 50% decrease in the aia-induced hepatic ala-s activity compared to rats treated with aia alone. heme oxygenase activity was decreased 25% compared to rats treated with aia alone. the effects of aia and cimetidine on cytochrome p-450 were not additive, suggesting competition for a common site of interaction. the results suggest that cimetidine may prove to be useful in treating porphyria in humans.
primary malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the aorta associated with aortic dissection. we report a unique case of primary aortic malignant fibrous histiocytoma presenting clinically as aortic dissection. to our knowledge, this occurrence is the first ever reported. the magnetic resonance imaging technique may provide superiority in the differential diagnosis between tumor and hematoma of aortic dissection. aortic tumor, although rare, should be included among the causes of aortic dissection.
the influence of elastic compression stockings on deep venous hemodynamics. to determine the effect of elastic compression stockings on deep venous hemodynamics we measured ambulatory venous pressure, venous refill time, maximum venous pressure with exercise, amplitude of venous pressure excursion, and duplex-derived common femoral and popliteal vein diameter and peak flow velocities with and without stockings in 10 healthy subjects and 16 patients with chronic deep venous insufficiency. the effects of below-knee and above-knee 30 to 40 torr and 40 to 50 torr gradient stockings were studied. despite documentation of substantial stocking compressive effects by skin pressure measurements, neither below-knee or above-knee elastic compression stockings significantly improved ambulatory venous pressure, venous refill time, maximum venous pressure with exercise, or the amplitude of venous pressure excursion in healthy patients or in patients with deep venous insufficiency (p greater than 0.05). in patients with deep venous insufficiency stockings modestly increased popliteal vein diameter and flow velocity in the upright resting position (p less than 0.02). after tiptoe exercise without stockings deep venous peak flow velocity increased in healthy patients and in patients with deep venous insufficiency by a mean of 103% in the popliteal vein and 46% in the common femoral vein (p less than 0.01). with the application of elastic compression stockings only modest augmentation of deep venous flow velocity occurred in both groups above that seen in the bare leg after exercise. thus elastic compression stockings did not improve deep venous hemodynamic measurements in patients with deep venous insufficiency. the beneficial effects of stockings in the treatment of deep venous insufficiency must relate to effects other than changes in deep venous hemodynamics.
stressful experience and cardiorespiratory disorders. ever since selye's time, the belief has persisted that the outcome of stressful experience is disease. the likelihood of this eventuality is increased when the experience is damaging, unavoidable, or uncontrollable. however, in most stressful instances, these conditions do not occur. the experience either is overcome or produces disturbances in physiological functions without structural change. the prevalence of "functional" disorders are far more common in medical practice than is disease. among the most interesting of these is the hyperventilation syndrome, which may mimic or be confused with ischemic heart disease. its symptomatology and physiology are complex. the syndrome may produce coronary vasospasm, but it may also complicate ischemic heart disease. it is even believed that chronic hyperventilation may be a risk factor for ischemic heart disease. stressful experience consisting of various tasks and challenges may also produce myocardial perfusion deficits in ischemic heart disease, presumably secondary to vasospasm. these deficits are in turn considerably more frequent in any one patient than st segment changes in the electrocardiogram or the incidence of angina pectoris. vasospasm is in turn related to cardiac arrhythmias, which may occur with ischemic heart disease during a variety of stressful experiences and during outbursts of anger. finally, the role of stressful experience in inciting ischemic heart disease and its complications remains moot.
rupture of coronary vasa vasorum as a trigger of acute myocardial infarction. some controversy has always existed regarding the presence and extent of the vasa vasorum--the nutrient vessels in the wall of the human aorta--in the coronary arteries. now, cinemicrographic studies using silicone polymer injections in cleared human hearts have identified the vasa vasorum of coronary arteries, revealing evidence of neovascularization in the region of atherosclerotic plaques. these studies suggest an important role for the vasa vasorum in the pathogenesis of coronary atherosclerosis and its sequelae, especially intramural hemorrhage and vascular spasm. the wall of the human coronary artery in regions of atherosclerotic injury may be particularly rich in capillary vessels of the vasa vasorum. from this, the evidence suggests that with the morning increase in blood pressure, fragile neovascular structures of the vasa vasorum may be more prone to rupture and may be responsible, in part, for the circadian variation in myocardial infarction.
histologic evaluation of the width of soft tissue necrosis adjacent to carbon dioxide laser incisions. this study evaluated the width of tissue necrosis lateral to carbon dioxide laser incisions on human intraoral excisional biopsy specimens. measurements were made on specimens including epithelium, muscle, dense and loose connective tissue, and salivary gland. results showed a mean width of tissue necrosis of 86 microns in epithelium, 85 microns in muscle, 51 microns in loose connective tissue, 96 microns in dense connective tissue, and 41 microns in salivary gland. the range of thermal necrosis in different tissue types is probably based on the water content within each type. a cellular partially homogenized zone of reversible thermal damage up to 500 microns in width was visible adjacent to the zone of thermal necrosis. the relatively narrow width of tissue necrosis with this technique may account for the claimed superior properties of laser-induced wounds compared with those created by electrosurgery.
sleep disturbances in hiv-infected homosexual men. to provide a better understanding of the etiology of subjective sleep complaints in hiv-infected individuals, a study to evaluate sleep/wake disturbances in 10 healthy hiv-infected male volunteers was performed. all subjects were hiv-infected but had no history of aids-related infections, and considered clinically asymptomatic. interviews and sleep questionnaires revealed sleep complaints in nine subjects. five healthy hiv-seronegative male subjects, with no history of sleep complaints, were also evaluated. sleep architecture analyses detected that, in comparison to published normative data and to negative controls, there was a significant increase in the total percentage of slow wave sleep (sws) and an increase in the percentage of sws in the later sleep cycles. when compared with normative data, an increase in stage 1 shifts, rapid eye movement (rem) periods, and arousals were also observed in the hiv-infected group. significant decreases in sleep latency, total percentage stage 2 sleep, and average rem durations were also observed in the hiv-infected group compared with normative data. these sleep architecture abnormalities could not be attributed to known sole primary sleep disorders, first night effect, medications, anxiety or depression. this study indicates that sleep disturbances occur early in the course of hiv infection and suggests that the observed alterations of sleep physiology may be a consequence of central nervous system involvement and/or immune defense mobilization in the early phases of hiv infection.
the role of cholecystokinin in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis in the isolated pancreas preparation. in a variety of animal models of acute pancreatitis, cholecystokinin-receptor antagonists have ameliorated the injury response. these results suggest that cholecystokinin may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of pancreatitis initiated by multiple stimuli. in an effort to test this theory, a sensitive and high affinity cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist l364,718 was administered to four different models of acute pancreatitis that were produced in the ex vivo perfused canine pancreas preparation. the four models of pancreatitis were initiated by cerulein infusion, partial duct obstruction with secretin stimulation, oleic acid infusion, and a 2-hour period of ischemia. in each model, pancreatitis was manifest by edema formation, weight gain, and hyperamylasemia during a 4-hour perfusion. in cerulein infusion-induced pancreatitis l364,718 inhibited edema formation and weight gain (31 +/- 5 gm versus 7 +/- 6 gm; p less than 0.05) and significantly decreased plasma amylase activity (36,605 +/- 21,216 u/dl versus 9421 +/- 5149 u/dl; p less than 0.05). the acute pancreatitis induced by the other three stimuli was not ameliorated by l364,718 treatment. we conclude that in the ex vivo-perfused canine pancreas preparation cerulein-induced pancreatitis is mediated at least in part by the cholecystokinin receptor. early blockade of the cholecystokinin receptor was of no benefit in treating the other models of pancreatitis, suggesting that cholecystokinin is not involved in the early pathogenesis.
quantification of the reversibility of stress-induced thallium-201 myocardial perfusion defects: a multicenter trial using bull's-eye polar maps and standard normal limits a multicenter trial was performed on 140 patients from four centers to determine the accuracy of quantitative analysis of stress/delayed thallium-201 myocardial tomograms using normal limits to assess the relative amount of reversibility of stress-induced defects. the patients were found to have 85 fixed and 124 reversible defects, as determined by visual interpretation. reversibility bull's-eye polar maps were compared to gender-matched normal limits from 36 normals. regions were identified as reversible if their normalized difference between stress and 4 hr greater than 1.5 s.d.s. from the mean normal limits. overall agreement between experts at multicenter sites and reversibility maps was 73% for reversible defects and 80% of fixed defects. sensitivity in detecting reversibility was highest for the left circumflex (88%) and lowest for the right coronary (60%). these results indicate that reversibility polar maps and normal limits offer an objective, accurate technique for determining the reversibility of stress-induced perfusion defects.
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome after first rib resection. seventy-seven patients with 84 operated limbs participated in a follow-up examination on an average of about six years after the resection of the first rib for thoracic outlet syndrome (tos). forty-two limbs (50%) were totally asymptomatic one month after the operation and remained so for at least half a year postoperatively. in the follow-up examination, 31 limbs were still asymptomatic, whereas 11 limbs had the same symptoms as before the operation. of the nine patients with recurrent tos (two with bilateral resection), seven were women and two were men. these nine patients were on average 38 years old (range = 19 to 51 years) and their jobs consisted of monotonous desk work. seven of 11 stumps of the first rib were subluxated disclosed by the cervical rotation-lateral-flexion test. the occurrence of a subluxated stump of the first rib in the group of asymptomatic patients was far lower, only 3% (p less than .001). of the 42 patients with persistent problems, a subluxated stump was encountered in seven (17%). results of this follow-up examination suggest that monotonous desk work is an important factor causing kinesiologic abnormalities in the thoracic aperture. this abnormal kinesiology contributes to the recurrence of tos symptoms even after the resection of the first rib.
effect of hydralazine on the mesenteric vasculature of hypertensive rats. to test whether structural alterations observed in the mesenteric vasculature of wistar-kyoto spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) were dependent on the presence of hypertension, male shr and wistar-kyoto normotensive (wky) rats were treated in utero and postnatally with hydralazine up to 28 weeks of age. treated shr, wky, and untreated wky rats had comparable blood pressures that were less than those of untreated shr. treatment altered the dimensions of the superior mesenteric, intermediate-sized, and small arteries of the mesenteric vasculature. in the case of the superior mesenteric artery and intermediate vessels, hydralazine treatment increased the lumen and medial cross-sectional areas of the arteries in wky rats and slightly decreased both parameters in shr. within the small arteries, treatment significantly increased the lumen size in shr but not wky rats and had no significant effect on the media of the vessels. despite the above alterations, the media-to-lumen cross-sectional area ratios remained significantly elevated in shr over wky rats in both the treated and control groups of animals within all classes of arteries. the results indicate that there is an inherent increase in the quantity of media surrounding the arteries of shr when compared with wky rats that cannot be abolished by normalizing the blood pressure in utero and postnatally with hydralazine treatment. in shr, such changes persist not only in arteries that exhibit an increase in the media-to-lumen ratio before hypertension but also in the superior mesenteric artery in which an increase in the ratio occurs after hypertension development.
swimmer's migraine. three cases of sudden, severe headache occurring during swimming are described. a 51-year-old female had been engaging in a swimming exercise for about 20 minutes when she suddenly experienced a pulsating headache in the parietotemporal region, accompanied by nausea. a few days later, she experienced a similar episode, again during swimming practice. a 45-year-old male developed a pulsating headache with nausea immediately after diving into a swimming pool, and had a similar attack during diving practice 1 week later. a 32-year-old male developed a pulsating headache accompanied by nausea while swimming in the sea. in all three cases, blood pressure, pulse rate, neurological findings, cervical spinal x-rays, brain ct scans, and hematological findings were normal and the outcome was good. although these patients' headaches were diagnosed as benign exertional headache, pathophysiologically they appeared to resemble the headache associated with sexual activity.
a comparative study of histopathology, hormone receptors, peanut lectin binding, ki-67 immunostaining, and nucleolar organizer region-associated proteins in human breast cancer. the current study was performed on 71 cases of human female breast cancer and compares the results of five morphologic methods developed for the detection of estrogen receptors (er), progesterone receptors (pgr), lectin peanut agglutinin (pna) binding sites, monoclonal antibody ki-67 immunoreactivity, and the mean number of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions (ag-nor). all the parameters were evaluated on serial cryostat sections representative of a closely related, if not identical, neoplastic population. a significant positive correlation was found between the occurrence of estrogen, progesterone, and peanut receptors and between ki-67 immunoreactivity, mean number of nor, and mitotic index. furthermore, er, pgr, and pna receptors showed a significant, inverse correlation with ki-67 immunoreactivity, mitotic index, and mean number of ag-nor. these results provide further data that support the hypothesis that (1) progesterone and pna receptors are estrogen-induced and indicate a metabolic response of the target cells to functioning estrogen receptors; (2) the mean number of nor reflects the cell kinetics of the tumor; and (3) metabolic differentiation of neoplastic cells is inversely correlated to the proliferation index.
morbidity associated with incompletely erupted third molars in the line of mandibular fractures. a retrospective analysis of 105 mandibular fractures associated with incompletely erupted third molars was undertaken. it was found that there was no difference in the rates of complication if the teeth were retained or extracted, or if an open or closed reduction was performed. the combination of tooth retention with open reduction, however, shows a trend toward being the treatment most prone to postoperative complications.
grinspan's syndrome: a drug-induced phenomenon? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension are reported. because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa, the question arises as to whether grinspan's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome.
the use of bromodeoxyuridine cytokinetic studies as a prognostic indicator of cancer of the head and neck. traditional measures of head and neck tumors often fail to predict patient outcome or clinical course, particularly in nonadvanced disease. this problem of unpredictable tumor behavior has been one focus of cell proliferation studies. such studies, however, have been limited by difficult methodology. a newer method of quantifying tumor cell proliferation using bromodeoxyuridine is applicable for head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, as shown in the present study. the relative ease with which cell proliferation can be evaluated using this technique will allow large numbers of head and neck tumors to be studied, enabling correlations with tumor behavior to be made.
melanoma in pregnancy. the clinical course of malignant melanoma in pregnancy has been a subject of controversy, but current evidence indicates that it is similar to the clinical course in non-pregnant patients. early detection and biopsy of localized disease is crucial because early treatment provides an excellent prognosis. surgical excision is the primary therapy for this disease. as the primary care provider for many women in the reproductive age group, obstetrician-gynecologists have an opportunity to detect these lesions at their earliest stages when they are amenable to cure. overall, maternal metastases to the fetus and placenta are very rare events and do not warrant elective termination based on the maternal diagnosis. however, a thorough examination of the infant and placenta should be done in all cases of melanoma complicating pregnancy. after treatment, long-term follow-up is recommended. since most recurrences develop within 3 years after the diagnosis, it remains prudent to recommend that these patients avoid a subsequent pregnancy during this interval.
high incidence of antibodies to htlv-i tax in blood relatives of adult t cell leukemia patients. adult t cell leukemia (atl) is caused by the human t cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i). although the mechanisms of the leukemogenic process are unknown, the tax gene may have a role in this process. because clustering occurs with htlv-i and atl, members of atl families were examined for antibodies to the tax protein and compared with matched htlv-i-positive blood donors. to investigate the antibody response to this protein, a plasmid, pbhx-4, was constructed to express a recombinant tax protein (r-tax). for atl patients and their htlv-i antibody-positive blood relatives, the rate of seroreactivity with the r-tax protein was 67.3% (35/52), compared with 51.6% (97/188) for htlv-i antibody-positive control blood donors (p less than .05). the difference between direct offspring of atl patients and matched htlv-i blood donors was even greater (84.2% [16/91] vs. 44.2% [42/95]; p less than .005). thus, tax antibody positivity in direct offspring of atl patients may reflect differences in time or route of htlv-i infection. alternatively, it might reflect genetic differences in host susceptibility or virus strain.
clustered trna genes in schizosaccharomyces pombe centromeric dna sequence repeats. the centromere-associated b' and b dna sequence repeats of schizosaccharomyces pombe chromosomes i and ii have been found to contain clusters of trna genes. the centromere ii region (cen2) includes at least 22 trna genes distributed among five copies of the b sequence repeat containing genes specifying trna(ile), trna(ala), and trna(val). individual b repeats are variously associated with other trna genes, including those specifying trna(lys), trna(arg), and trna(glu2). the centromere i region (cen1) contains at least six trna genes in two copies of the b' repeated element, including genes specifying trna(ile), trna(ala), and trna(glu3). multiple tandemly arranged clusters of trna genes are presumably conserved due to restricted recombination frequencies in the centromere regions.
intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis. negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30% of patients. a previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group. the etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations; however, investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes. this report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography, in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma. for this reason, cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography.
gluten challenge in patients with celiac disease: evaluation of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance. our aim in this study was to monitor changes of the intestinal structure by alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance (alpha 1-atcl) in order to offer an alternative to the gluten challenge biopsy. in addition, we evaluated the possibility of reducing the time of gluten challenge. twelve patients had a presumptive diagnosis of celiac disease based on clinical and histological grounds. they were studied when the jejunal histology was normal after gluten-free diet and an alpha 1-atcl was normal. the gluten was introduced by returning to a normal diet. the challenge lasted 4 wk. we measured alpha 1-atcl at the end of the 1st and 4th wk, and a new jejunal biopsy was obtained at the end of the 4th wk. by wk 1, alpha 1-atcl was abnormal in 11 patients but normal in one. by wk 4, alpha 1-atcl was abnormal in 10 patients and still normal in one. the post-challenge biopsies showed atrophy in 11 and was normal only in the patient with normal alpha 1-atcl at wk 1 and 4. one patient with abnormal alpha 1-atcl had to stop the challenge at the first week. the patient with normal clearance at wk 1 and 4 and normal biopsy at wk 4 had abnormal results at 6 months. these data support our hypothesis that alpha 1-atcl can be used as evidence of gluten toxicity after gluten challenge, and that this test can be abnormal as early as 1 wk after gluten is reintroduced.
the use of risk factors in medical diagnosis: opportunities and cautions. we discuss in this paper the extent to which disease risk factors may assist in the diagnostic process. we caution that disease risk factors need not be very sensitive or specific. risk factor specificity and sensitivity may be further reduced if, in the former case, the risk factor is related to other illnesses having the same clinical presentation as the disease of interest, or if, in the latter case, the risk factor disappears with the onset of illness. we illustrate these points in a discussion of the utility of smoking as a diagnostic test for malignancy in two clinical situations, the patient with asymptomatic microscopic hematuria and the patient with a solitary pulmonary nodule. risk factors hold great promise as aids to medical diagnosis, as this information is readily available to clinicians at little or no cost. clinicians, however, should exercise caution when using risk factors of unproven diagnostic utility in medical diagnosis, as their presence may have little or no effect on disease probability.
management of postoperative inflammation: dexamethasone versus flurbiprofen, a quantitative study using the new flare cell meter. a consecutive, random, prospective study was conducted to compare the effect of topical dexamethasone and flurbiprofen drops on postoperative inflammation in patients undergoing extracapsular cataract extraction with lens implantation. objective, quantitative measurements were made postoperatively, using the kowa fc-1000 flare cell meter. the two treatments were equally effective.
klinefelter's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter's syndrome is a rare entity. even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery. for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare. reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach.
pulse oximetry: a new non-invasive assessment of peripheral arterial occlusive disease. peripheral skin perfusion reflects the level of vascularity and viability of a limb and may help in planning the site of amputation or bypass surgery in patients with vascular disease. this study used peripheral pulse oximetry in 20 healthy volunteers and in 20 patients with limb ischaemia. pulse oximetry saturation levels (psa,o2) were compared with ankle artery doppler pressures and transcutaneous oxygen measurements (ptc,o2). recordings were taken at two standard sites distally and referenced to finger and forearm to calculate an index. a significant correlation was found between ptc,o2 and psa,o2 in patients with ischaemia (r = 0.68, p less than 0.01). a further group of 12 patients with acute limb ischaemia was similarly assessed before and after revascularization. after revascularization mean(s.d.) ptc,o2 increased from 38(13) to 44(1) mmhg (p greater than 0.05) and mean(s.d.) psa,o2 increased from 86(3) to 90(4) per cent (p less than 0.01). these data suggest that pulse oximetry is a more sensitive index of peripheral perfusion than ptc,o2 or ankle artery doppler pressure and that, because of its accuracy and simplicity, it merits further use.
effects of milrinone on pulmonary vasculature in normal dogs and in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. objective: to study the effects of milrinone on pulmonary vasculature. background: it has been suggested that bipyridines or their derivatives may have a selective pulmonary vasodilation effect. methods: preliminary study: milrinone administration to 12 normal dogs (low dose [bolus 75 micrograms/kg for 5 min followed by a continuous infusion at 0.75 micrograms/kg.min, n = 6]; high dose [bolus 150 micrograms/kg for 5 min followed by continuous infusion at 1.5 micrograms/kg.min, n = 6]). main study: milrinone administration to 18 dogs with pulmonary hypertension due to pulmonary embolism induced by a massive injection of autologous muscle cubes. the pulmonary hypertension dogs were divided into three groups: a) group e (n = 6) received embolization only, as control; b) group l (n = 6) received low-dose milrinone; and c) group h (n = 6) received high-dose milrinone, equivalent to the preliminary study group. hemodynamic measurements and blood samplings were obtained at baseline and at 15, 30, and 60 min after start of milrinone infusion. results: milrinone did not change mean pulmonary artery pressure (mpap) in normal dogs. milrinone decreased mpap significantly in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. pulmonary vascular resistance index remained at an almost constant level in normal dogs, but decreased significantly in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. mean arterial pressure was maintained at a constant level in all groups. high-dose milrinone administration decreased systemic vascular resistance index (svri) significantly; low-dose milrinone administration decreased svri slightly. conclusions: milrinone may have a selective pulmonary vasodilatory effect only in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. the mechanism that produced a selectivity on pulmonary vasculature in dogs with pulmonary hypertension is unknown. however, an inhibition of platelet aggregation may decrease the mpap resulting from an increase in camp caused by milrinone. further studies are needed to resolve the pulmonary vasodilatory effect of milrinone in dogs with pulmonary hypertension.
effects of metoprolol on rest and exercise cardiac function and plasma catecholamines in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to ischemic or idiopathic cardiomyopathy. to define the effects of 2 months of metoprolol therapy on cardiac function, aerobic performance and sympathetic nervous system activity, metoprolol (75 to 100 mg/day) was administered to 10 patients with chronic congestive heart failure (chf). metoprolol was discontinued in 2 patients because of worsening chf. in the remaining 8 patients, peak oxygen uptake increased significantly (14.8 +/- 3.0 to 16.1 +/- 2.5 ml/kg/min, p less than 0.05) as did the oxygen pulse (9.0 +/- 2.2 to 12.6 +/- 1.8 ml/beat, p less than 0.02). resting heart rate (87 +/- 18 to 62 +/- 9 beats/min, p less than 0.05) and peak exercise heart rate (133 +/- 13 to 105 +/- 30 beats/min, p less than 0.02) were both reduced. mean resting ejection fraction increased from 0.15 +/- 0.06 to 0.25 +/- 0.11 and peak exercise ejection fraction also tended to increase (0.19 +/- 0.11 to 0.28 +/- 0.15, difference not significant). both resting plasma norepinephrine (613 +/- 706 to 303 +/- 142 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) and epinephrine (71 +/- 50 to 40 +/- 21 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) were reduced. circulating lymphocyte beta-adrenergic receptor number was unchanged (1,334 +/- 292 to 1,344 +/- 456 receptors/cell, difference not significant). it is concluded that metoprolol therapy is associated with improvements in rest and exercise ventricular performance and maximal aerobic capacity. these improvements are associated with a decline in resting sympathetic nervous system activity.
benefit of bicarbonate dialysis during cavhd. the effect of bicarbonate dialysate (bd) on acid-base status in six pediatric cavhd patients was examined during seven episodes of metabolic acidosis. when metabolic acidosis was not corrected with cavhd, a sterile bd was substituted for either acetate- or lactate-based dialysate. pre- and post-bd substitution levels of lactate, hco3, pco2, anion gap, and ph were recorded, as well as dose of intravenous (i.v.) bicarbonate. improvements in ph and serum hco3 were seen in all seven cases. anion gap decreased in all but one of the patients who were switched from lactate to bicarbonate dialysate, with improvement most marked in those patients with marked elevation of the anion gap. no adverse effect on pco2 was noted. lactate dialysate may be less effective when serum lactate levels are high, and may contribute to further elevation of lactate levels and anion gap. these data suggest that bicarbonate dialysate may be preferable to lactate or acetate dialysate in cavhd patients with persistent metabolic acidosis.
ascending cholangitis: surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage. a retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out. there were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years. all patients had abdominal pain, 87% had chills and fever, 65% had clinical jaundice, 23% were in shock, and 54% had positive blood cultures. because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help, 33 patients underwent surgery, 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy (ep), and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct (ptd). morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections, one respiratory failure, and one renal failure. morbidity in the ep-ptd group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively. two patients (6%) died in the surgery group, one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest. in the ep-ptd group nine patients (32%) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure. these patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat ep-ptd was carried out. cholangitis persisted, and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death. thus when initial ep or ptd is unsuccessful, surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis.
meningitis in the neurosurgical patient. in the patient with a basilar skull fracture and csf leak, the risk of meningitis is greatly increased. the diagnosis of both leak and infection can be obscured by the patient's other injuries, and requires aggressive investigation of symptoms that suggest infection. although the diagnosis is made with csf cultures, when clinically suspected, treatment should begin after appropriate cultures have been obtained. treatment should be directed against the most likely organisms, streptococcus pneumoniae, haemophilus influenzae, and the other organisms common to the upper respiratory tract. there are no good indications for prophylactic antibiotic usage in patients with known csf leaks. the patient with a shunt or other cns prosthetic device may have various manifestations of infection, depending on the type of device and its termination. frank meningitis or ventriculitis is not always present. diagnosis requires direct culturing of the shunt milieu, with the most frequent isolates being staphylococcal species and gram-negative enteric bacilli. the most effective therapy, for both eradication of the infection and minimization of the duration and morbidity of therapy, involves removal of the infected shunt, external drainage during parenteral antibiotic therapy, and complete replacement of hardware at the time of internalization. the postsurgical patient will not develop meningitis very frequently, but like the posttrauma patient, concurrent factors can make the diagnosis difficult. differentiating infectious from chemical meningitis must often be initially based on csf cell counts and chemistries alone. treatment to cover the most likely organism, staphylococcal species and respiratory flora, should be started before the culture results are finalized.
childhood deaths from toy balloons. we describe four children who died of suffocation by rubber balloons in canada between 1983 and 1988. in the united states, at least 121 children have died in a similar manner in the 15 years between 1973 and 1988 according to a report by the us consumer product safety commission. although the highest mortality occurred among infants, 30 (25%) of the 121 deaths occurred in children 6 years of age or older. balloons account for 43% of the approximately 15 childhood deaths related to children's products that are documented each year by the consumer product safety commission. toy rubber balloons are thus the leading cause of pediatric choking deaths from children's products. preventive efforts should be directed toward a ban on this type of balloon and the development of safer alternatives. meanwhile, public information campaigns should alert parents, physicians, and policymakers to the dangers of toy rubber balloons.
impact of enucleation for choroidal melanoma on the performance of vision-dependent activities. we report a functional outcome assessment of 71 patients who underwent enucleation for choroidal melanoma. each was interviewed to evaluate his her self-reported ability to perform four vision-dependent activities--working, driving, reading, and television viewing--before enucleation and when interviewed. the interval between enucleation and the interview varied between 2 and 25 years. eighty-seven percent (62/71) reported no change in their ability to perform these important vision-dependent tasks. at 15 years after enucleation, 90% (18/20) retained the ability to drive and 96% (25/26) retained the ability to read. these results are reassuring for those with choroidal melanoma who are faced with enucleation, because most of these patients seem likely to continue at a level of visual function comparable with their preenucleation status.
clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in femoropopliteal disease and the results of surgery. from 1980 to 1988 we performed 288 femoropopliteal bypass operations in 231 patients at the oregon health sciences university. the indication for the procedure was claudication in 31% and the relief of limb-threatening ischemia in 64%. operative mortality occurred after four of these operations (1.4%), including three deaths from myocardial infarction and one death from stroke. the femoropopliteal bypass patients were divided into groups for patency analysis, including those undergoing bypass surgery with a good quality greater saphenous vein versus alternate bypass conduits and patients undergoing primary limb bypass versus those undergoing repeat bypass after prior bypass failure. our overall primary graft patency for all femoropopliteal grafts was 79% at 5 years. patients undergoing bypass with a good quality greater saphenous vein had primary graft patency of 85% at 5 years. patients undergoing bypass using a conduit other than greater saphenous vein had a 5-year patency of 73%. patients undergoing repeat bypass after a prior failed bypass had a 5-year patency of 57%.
elapsed time from symptom onset and acute myocardial infarction in a community hospital. study objective: previous reports have emphasized that thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction should be initiated within three or four hours of symptom onset to obtain the best clinical outcomes. however, our clinical impression was that late arrivers, who often do not receive thrombolytic therapy, have a good short-term prognosis. therefore, we investigated the relationships among the elapsed time from symptom onset, thrombolytic therapy, and short-term prognosis in acute myocardial infarction patients. the research hypothesis was that late arrivers have a better in-hospital prognosis because they have less severe disease that may involve spontaneous thrombolysis. design: observational cohort study based on reviewing medical records and emergency department service logs. setting: 500-bed teaching hospital with medical school affiliation in northeastern ohio. type of participants: four hundred consecutive patients with acute infarction confirmed by chest pain and positive ecgs or elevated cardiac enzymes. measurements and main results: patients arriving early (elapsed time less than or equal to 1.5 hours) were more likely to be in killip class iii or iv (p = .04) or to have hypotension (p = .0004); and they experienced twofold increased odds of ventricular tachycardia (p = .007), cardiac arrest (p = .03), or death (p = .01). patients arriving late (elapsed time greater than 3.5 hours) were more likely to have a history of angina (p = .002) and had a better short-term prognosis. conclusions: time of ed arrival after onset of acute myocardial infarction symptoms distinguishes two patient groups that differ in their risk of in-hospital complications. late arrivers have better short-term prognoses and less (acutely) severe disease, and may have less need for thrombolytic therapy because of possible spontaneous thrombolysis. patients with prior angina may need education on seeking care if their symptoms change.
prostate cancer: transrectal ultrasound and pathology comparison. a preliminary study of outer gland (peripheral and central zones) and inner gland (transition zone) cancer. a study was conducted to compare results of transrectal ultrasound with pathologic findings on 116 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for treatment of prostate cancer. in 96% (111 of 116), transrectal ultrasound guided biopsies of a hypoechoic lesion proved cancer; seven patients had known stage a cancer; one patient had cancer detected by palpation and not detected by ultrasound. cancers in the outer gland (peripheral and central zones) were compared with cancers in the inner gland (transition zone) by both ultrasound and pathology. forty-eight percent (52 of 108) of cancers originating in the outer gland showed extraprostatic extension (stage c disease). the primary sites of tumor escape from the outer gland were the prostatic capsule (38%), anterior fibromuscular stroma (5%), seminal vesicle (18%), the base of the gland at the neurovascular bundle (21%), and the apex (31%). twenty-two percent (17 of 54) of cancers originating in the inner gland (transition zone) showed extraprostatic extension (stage c disease). the primary sites of tumor escape from the inner gland were the anterior fibromuscular stroma (6%) and apex (11%). both histologic and biologic differences between outer and inner gland cancers were found when tumor size was controlled. gleason scores were significantly different for inner and outer gland cancers, with mean scores of 6.2 +/- 1.6 and 7.4 +/- 0.9, respectively. an odds ratio of 8.6 confirmed the increased risk of extraprostatic extension for outer gland cancer. outer gland cancers showed increased aggressive behavior of both histologic and biologic nature. the difference in biologic aggressiveness of outer and inner gland cancers has definite implications for treatment options. use of other diagnostic parameters, such as dna ploidy, may help to determine which cancers to treat and when to treat them; this may have more relevance for cancers originating in the inner gland. strategic transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy affords accurate tumor mapping and staging when modes of internal spread and escape of cancer from both outer and inner gland are known. thus, transrectal ultrasound may be our "window of observation" through which additional research may explain the histologic and biologic discrepancies between outer and inner gland cancers.
primary total knee arthroplasty in patients with psoriasis. between 1976 and 1988, 50 primary total knee arthroplasties were performed on 34 patients with psoriasis vulgaris. the skin lesions were graded for severity in all patients and the extent of affected body surface was mapped. all patients received peri-operative antibiotics. only one deep infection, with staphylococcus aureus, occurred 25 months after operation. the average length of follow-up was nearly four and a half years, being to a minimum of two years or until failure of the arthroplasty. there appears to be no increased risk of deep infection in patient with psoriasis vulgaris undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty.
adjacent solid boundaries alter the size of regurgitant jets on doppler color flow maps. recent studies have attempted to predict the severity of regurgitant lesions from jet size on doppler flow maps. jet size is a function of both regurgitant volume and fluid entrained from the receiving chamber and, for a free jet, is a function of its momentum at the orifice. however, regurgitant jets often approach or attach to cardiac walls, potentially altering their momentum and ability to expand by entrainment. therefore, this study addressed the hypothesis that adjacent walls influence regurgitant jet size as seen on doppler flow maps. steady flow was driven through circular orifices (0.02 to 0.05 cm2) at physiologic velocities of 2 to 5 m/s. at a constant flow rate and orifice velocity, orifice position was varied to produce three jet geometries: free jets, jets adjacent to a horizontal chamber wall lying 1 cm below the orifice and wall jets with the orifice at the level of the wall. doppler color flow imaging was performed at identical instrument settings for all jets. two long-axis views of the jet were obtained: a vertical view perpendicular to the wall, resembling that most commonly used in patients to image the length of the jet, and a horizontal view parallel to the chamber wall. velocities along the jet were also measured by doppler mapping.
primary non-hodgkin's t-cell lymphoma of the esophagus. a case with peculiar endoscopic ultrasonographic pattern. we report a case of primary esophageal non-hodgkin's t-cell lymphoma in a young white female. at admission, endoscopy revealed large, irregularly shaped, esophageal ulcerations with super imposed candidiasis. endoscopic ultrasonography to assess submucosal alterations and periesophageal involvement revealed a diffuse hypoechogenic thickening (up to 5 mm) of the esophageal wall, a pattern consistent with lymphomatous infiltration. definitive diagnosis was made with the aid of histology and immunohistochemistry.
intraoperative pathologic diagnosis of thyroid neoplasms. report on experience with 504 specimens. intraoperative pathologic examination with frozen section (fs) was performed on 504 specimens of thyroid tissue obtained from 457 patients over a period of 9 years. after examination of permanent sections (ps) a malignant neoplasm was diagnosed in 57 specimens (11.3%); 50 (87%) of these were primary thyroid carcinoma, four (8%) metastatic carcinoma, and three (5%) malignant lymphoma. the fs diagnosis was "benign" in 448 (88.9%), "malignant" in (30) 5.9%, and "deferred" in 26 (5.2%). the sensitivity of fs diagnosis of malignancy was 53% and the specificity and positive predictive value 100%. the negative predictive value was 97.8% and overall accuracy 97.9%. the ps disclosed a malignant neoplasm in 62% of specimens in which fs diagnosis was "deferred." sixty-eight percent of papillary carcinomas, 87% of undifferentiated carcinomas, and a single case of medullary carcinoma were diagnosed with fs examination. a fs diagnosis of malignancy was not made in any of the ten specimens containing follicular carcinoma; in all ten the neoplasms were well-differentiated and eight were encapsulated and minimally invasive. the inability to diagnose follicular carcinoma intraoperatively with fs is the most significant factor accounting for the relatively low sensitivity of fs diagnosis of malignant thyroid neoplasms.
role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy. the purpose of this study was to determine the role of laparoscopy in patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and a normal computerized tomograph (ct). twenty-five consecutive patients with a normal liver and no peritoneal lesions on ct were evaluated. patients with a documented primary neoplasm or a positive ascitic fluid cytology were excluded. at laparoscopy, malignancy was documented by biopsy in 12 patients for an incidence of 48%. of the patients with exudative ascites, 75% had peritoneal metastases. in addition seven patients had benign liver disease documented by laparoscopic biopsy. liver enzymes were not helpful in distinguishing benign and malignant disease in this group of patients. this study indicates that a negative ct does not exclude liver or peritoneal malignancy. laparoscopy has a significant yield in patients with a negative ct suspected of having hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and is the procedure of choice in evaluating these patients.
cardiotoxicity of interferon. a review of 44 cases. cardiovascular complications have occurred in clinical trials of interferon. we review herein experience to date of cardiotoxicity with all types of interferons in cancer patients. the most common presentations of cardiotoxicity were cardiac arrhythmia, dilated cardiomyopathy, and symptoms of ischemic heart disease, including myocardial infarction and sudden death. the cardiac effects were not related to the daily dose, cumulative total dose, or period of therapy. some of the patients in whom interferon has caused cardiovascular sequelae have had a history of coronary heart disease or have previously been given chemotherapy with drugs known to be cardiotoxic. in most of the patients, cardiac toxicity was reversible following the cessation of the drug therapy.
ranitidine in the treatment of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug associated gastric and duodenal ulcers. in a multicentre study the effect of ranitidine on healing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) associated peptic ulcers was compared in a group of patients who had stopped nsaid treatment with another group who continued with nsaid treatment. a total of 190 patients with confirmed ulcers were randomised to continue or stop nsaid treatment. all patients in addition received ranitidine 150 mg twice daily. patients were endoscopically monitored at four, eight, and 12 weeks. gastric ulcers at eight weeks had healed in 63% of those taking nsaids compared with 95% of those who had stopped nsaid treatment. for duodenal ulcer the healing rates at eight weeks were 84% in the group continuing nsaids compared with 100% in those who stopped nsaids. the differences in healing rates were statistically significant for both gastric ulcer (p = 0.001) and for duodenal ulcer (p = 0.006). at 12 weeks, 79% of gastric ulcers and 92% of duodenal ulcers were healed in the group continuing with nsaids. all patients with gastric and duodenal ulcers who stopped taking nsaids were healed at 12 weeks. the study shows that ranitidine 150 mg twice daily effectively heals nsaid associated peptic ulcers. healing is more successful when nsaid treatment stops but even if these drugs are continued, substantial healing rates are achievable.
repair of flail anterior leaflets of tricuspid and mitral valves by cusp remodeling. we present an alternative approach to extensive rupture of the chordae tendineae leading to flail anterior leaflets. resection of the affected cusp segment, suture of the cut edges, and extensive plication of the segment of annulus devoid of leaflets abolished massive regurgitation while maintaining an adequate valve orifice.
gi symptoms, function, and psychophysiological arousal in dysmenorrheic women. in a previous study, gastrointestinal (gi) symptoms and stool characteristics were found to be influenced by menstrual cycle phase. the current study was designed to replicate initial work regarding gi symptoms and stool characteristics and to explore the relationships between gi symptoms, stool characteristics, ovarian hormone levels, and indicators of psychophysiological arousal. fifty women (dysmenorrheic, n = 22; nondysmenorrheic, n = 28) maintained a daily dairy for recording stool characteristics, gi symptoms, and daily anxiety level. first morning void urine specimens for catecholamine assays and serum samples for ovarian hormone and cortisol determinations were obtained at menses, follicular, and luteal phases. results showed menstrual cycle-related differences in stool characteristics and report of gi symptoms, with the greatest changes occurring at menses in the total sample. dysmenorrheic women reported higher levels of all gi symptoms at menses as compared to nondysmenorrheic women. in addition, cycle-related differences in serum cortisol, urine catecholamines, and report of anxiety were also noted, particularly in dysmenorrheic women. however, looser stools and gi symptoms at menses were not correlated with absolute levels of ovarian hormones or indicators of psychophysiological arousal.
clinical features and natural history of von hippel-lindau disease the clinical features, age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von hippel-lindau disease were studied. mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years. retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients (43 per cent), followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma (n = 60, 39 per cent) and renal cell carcinoma (n = 15, 10 per cent). overall, 89 patients (59 per cent) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma, 89 (59 per cent) a retinal angioma, 43 (28 per cent) renal cell carcinoma, 20 (13 per cent) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 (7 per cent) a phaeochromocytoma. renal, pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed. mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (44.0 +/- 10.9 years) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma (29.0 +/- 10.0 years) and retinal angioma (25.4 +/- 12.7 years). the probability of a patient with von hippel-lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma, retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84, 0.7 and 0.69, respectively. a comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented, based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications. median actuarial survival was 49 years, with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death.
critical review of gangliosides and thyrotropin-releasing hormone in peripheral neuromuscular diseases. the lack of effective therapy for many of the chronic neuromuscular diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, hereditary motor sensory neuropathy (charcot-marie-tooth disease), spinocerebellar degenerations and idiopathic polyneuropathy has led to a search for substances that may stimulate peripheral nerve regeneration. two such agents that have been proposed are gangliosides (mixed purified bovine brain gangliosides, cronassial) and thyrotropin releasing factor (trh). studies on both of these agents were initially reported with enthusiasm to be successful, but later double-blind controlled studies have failed to confirm these findings. this review provides critical analysis of the designs of studies of potentially effective agents in chronic neuromuscular diseases, and emphasizes the power of the placebo response, and the importance of designing placebos which are indistinguishable from the trial medication other than in the active effect.
tumor-secreted vascular permeability factor increases cytosolic ca2+ and von willebrand factor release in human endothelial cells. vascular permeability factor (vpf), a tumor-secreted heparin-binding protein (mr approximately 38,000), is responsible for increased vessel permeability and fluid accumulation associated with tumor growth. vascular permeability factor also promotes the growth of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (ec) and bovine pulmonary ecs in vitro. it is shown for the first time that guinea pig vpf (half-maximal and maximal dose approximately 0.4 and 22 pmol/l (picomolar), respectively), as well as human vpf, are potent stimuli for human ecs resulting in [ca2+]i increases (maximal three- to fourfold) and inositol triphosphate (ip3) formation. unlike the maximal responses to thrombin and histamine, the [ca2+]i response to a maximal vpf dose was preceded by a characteristic 10- to 15-second delay. guinea pig vpf also selectively increased [ca2+]i in cultured aortic and pulmonary artery ecs, but not aortic smooth muscle cells, human fibroblasts, or neutrophils. affinity-purified rabbit antibody (raised to a synthetic peptide representing vpf n-terminal amino acids 1 to 24) adsorbed all vessel permeability-increasing activity, ec growth-promoting activity, and specifically all activity responsible for increasing ec [ca2+]i. similar to other mediators that increase [ca2+]i in cultured ecs, vpf also induced a 200% increase in von willebrand factor release. together these data indicate that vpf acts directly on ecs and that rapid cellular events in its in vivo/in vitro actions are likely to involve phospholipase c activation, [ca2+]i increase, and von willebrand factor release.
plasma prolactin and clinical outcome in preterm infants. plasma prolactin was measured weekly in 280 preterm infants. the complex gestational age dependent pattern of postnatal prolactin release has been defined and reference standards provided. plasma prolactin was higher in girls, with increasing divergence between the sexes from the third week onwards, and higher after two weeks, in infants of mothers with pregnancy related hypertension. diet, assigned randomly, exerted a major effect on plasma prolactin, with significantly higher values in infants fed donor breast milk or standard formula than in those fed a protein, energy, and mineral enriched preterm formula. after adjusting for confounding factors, infants with the lowest plasma prolactin concentrations (less than 1000 mu/l, 32.9 micrograms/l) occurring usually at a nadir between days 5 and 12, showed a 120% increase in the duration of ventilatory assistance required, a 20% increase in the number of days to attain full enteral feeds, and a 30% decrease in length gain. we suggest preterm birth disrupts the normal perinatal pattern of prolactin release and that those infants who develop relatively low plasma concentration have an adverse outcome. our data add to the broader debate on whether preterm infants require multiple endocrine replacement treatment.
aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphomas: review of 91 patients treated with the lnh-84 regimen. a study of the groupe d'etude des lymphomes agressifs. purpose: patients with aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphoma undergoing the lnh-84 chemotherapy regimen were analyzed to determine the efficacy of intensive combination chemotherapy, the role of surgical debulking in patients treated with combination chemotherapy, and the toxicity associated with each of these modalities. patients and methods: ninety-one patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma who participated in the prospective multicenter lnh-84 combination chemotherapy trial (total number of patients in trial, 737) were analyzed. these 91 patients included 69 (76%) with diffuse large cell, nine (10%) with diffuse mixed, and seven (8%) with small noncleaved cell lymphoma. two patients (2%) had stage ie, 54 patients (59%) stage iie, and 35 patients (38%) stage iv disease; all patients with stage ie, 22 with stage iie, and 18 with stage iv disease had bulky (greater than or equal to 10 cm) tumors. specific sites of gastrointestinal involvement included stomach (47%), small bowel (38%), ileocecum (14%), colon (11%), and rectum (7%). although surgical resection was attempted in 71 patients (78%), only 28 (31%) had complete tumor excision. all patients received three or four cycles of acvb (defined in text) induction therapy followed by sequential consolidation as previously described. results: responses to treatment in the 91 patients included 71 (78%) complete remissions, six (7%) partial remissions, five (5%) nonresponses, and nine (10%) deaths. with a median follow-up of 3 years, 10 patients (14%) have had relapses; predicted 4-year disease-free survival of complete responders is 85% and predicted 4-year survival of the entire group is 62%. in patients with stage ie or iie disease, the complete response, survival, and disease-free survival rates were similar in those who underwent complete surgical resection or incomplete or no surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy. prognostic factors predicting for survival in the 91 patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma were similar to those in the 646 other patients treated with the lnh-84 regimen. conclusions: patients with aggressive gastrointestinal lymphoma treated with intensive chemotherapy have outcomes and prognostic factors comparable to those of patients with similar-stage aggressive lymphoma without primary gastrointestinal involvement. surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy did not influence the complete response rate, survival rate, or disease-free survival rate in this small group of patients.
pulmonary artery balloon counterpulsation for intraoperative right ventricular failure. two cases of severe low cardiac output and right ventricular failure after coronary artery bypass grafting necessitated pulmonary artery balloon counterpulsation after intraaortic balloon pumping and maximal inotropic/pressor support were unsuccessful in maintaining a satisfactory cardiac output. hemodynamic improvement was sufficient to allow removal of the device 2 and 3 days postoperatively, with survival in 1 patient. pulmonary artery counterpulsation is less morbid in comparison with other mechanical methods of right ventricular support and is applicable in right ventricular failure of intermediate severity.
piezoelectric lithotripsy: stone disintegration and follow-up results in patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones. one hundred symptomatic patients with radiolucent gallbladder stones were treated with a new piezoelectric lithotripter and oral chemolitholytic agents. stone disintegration was achieved in 99 of these patients (99%) with a mean (+/- sd) maximum fragment size of 5.1 +/- 4.1 mm. significant differences were found when the mean (+/- sd) fragment sizes of single stones less than or equal to 20 mm (4.2 +/- 2.5 mm) were compared with those of single stones greater than 20 mm (5.8 +/- 3.4 mm; p less than 0.05) and multiple stones (6.2 +/- 3.8 mm; p less than 0.05), respectively. none of the patients required anesthesia, analgesics, or sedatives before or during the treatment. the stone-free rates for all patients followed up for up to 4-12 months (mean +/- sd, 10.7 +/- 2.9 months) were 18% (1 month), 25% (2 months), 38% (4 months), 52% (8 months), and 67% (12 months). partly significant differences were obtained in stone-free rates for single stones (less than or equal to 20 mm) compared with larger stones (greater than 20 mm) and multiple stones (p less than 0.05), respectively. serious adverse reactions (i.e., cholestasis and pancreatitis) were observed in only 3 patients (3%). these conditions were induced by fragment impaction in the common bile duct. in 2 of these patients, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with endoscopic sphincterotomy was required. it is concluded that piezoelectrically generated shock waves are suitable for the effective and safe disintegration of gallbladder stones in humans. the anesthesia-free and analgesia-free shock-wave application opens up the possibility to perform biliary lithotripsy as an outpatient procedure. the stone-free rate achieved in combination with oral bile acids is most promising for single stones (less than or equal to 20 mm).
intrapericardial extralobar pulmonary sequestration in a neonate. a huge pericardial effusion was diagnosed during fetal ultrasound examination performed in the 42nd week of pregnancy on a healthy 25-year-old woman. immediately after the birth, a two-dimensional echocardiogram confirmed this finding in the infant, and an intrapericardial kidney-shaped solid mass measuring 45 x 56 x 15 mm, completely surrounded by pericardial effusion, was visualized to the left part of the heart. the heart was normal. no signs of cardiac tamponade were seen. at the age of two days, the mass was surgically resected and the pericardial fluid evacuated. microscopic examination revealed that the mass was formed totally of normal lung tissue surrounded by normal pleura. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of intrapericardial extralobar sequestration consisting of an accessory lung with completely normal lung tissue.
noncoordinate regulation of alpha-1 adrenoreceptor coupling and reexpression of alpha skeletal actin in myocardial infarction-induced left ventricular failure in rats. to determine the effects of myocardial infarction-induced left ventricular failure on the regulation of surface alpha-1 adrenoreceptors and signal transduction, large infarcts were produced in rats and the animals killed seven days later. after the documentation of impaired left ventricular pump performance, radioligand binding studies of the alpha-1 adrenoreceptor, norepinephrine-stimulated phosphoinositol turnover, and adp ribosylation of 41 kd substrate by pertussis toxin were examined in the hypertrophying unaffected myocardium. moreover, the expression of sarcomeric actin isoforms was analyzed by northern blots and hybridization with specific oligonucleotide probes. alpha-1 adrenoreceptor density was found not to be altered in membranes obtained from the spared left ventricular tissue, whereas phosphoinositol turnover was increased 3.1-fold in the viable myocytes of infarcted hearts. furthermore, pertussis toxin substrate was augmented 2.5-fold in membranes prepared from the surviving left ventricular myocardium. finally, an upregulation of the skeletal actin isoform was detected in the tissue of the failing left ventricle. in conclusion, the possibility is raised that in the presence of severe myocardial dysfunction and ongoing reactive hypertrophy, effector pathways linked to the alpha-1 adrenoreceptor may stimulate the myocyte hypertrophic response which would tend to normalize cardiac hemodynamics. the reexpression of alpha skeletal actin may be a molecular indicator of the persistance of an overload on the myocardium.
unusual cause of 'piriformis muscle syndrome'. the piriformis muscle syndrome is a controversial "clinical" syndrome primarily characterized by signs and symptoms of sciatic nerve compression at the region of the piriformis muscle as it passes through the greater sciatic notch. the syndrome is often referred to; however, cases are rarely reported, and it is generally an uncommon diagnosis. of those cases reported, the incidence is six times more frequent in females than in males, and is typically temporally related to minor pelvic or buttock trauma. we describe a case of a 40-year-old woman presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of piriformis muscle syndrome following a gynecologic procedure performed in the dorsal lithotomy position. electromyographic findings were consistent with this clinical entity. operative exploration, however, revealed the source of neural compression to be a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior gluteal artery adjacent to the piriformis muscle. the diagnostic features of this clinical syndrome are discussed.
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour. catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae. case report. the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue. the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation. emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage. it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now.
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for the circulatory support of children after repair of congenital heart disease. we have treated 39 infants and children with congenital heart disease with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during the past 5 years. thirty-six were treated for low cardiac output or pulmonary vasoreactive crisis after repair of congenital heart defects. twenty-two (61%) survived. most patients were cannulated from the neck via the right internal jugular vein and the right common carotid artery. six patients were cannulated from the chest, including three who had separate drainage of the left side of the heart with a left atrial cannula. two of these patients survived and were the only survivors of the nine patients cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass after open cardiac operations. we also reviewed 312 patients (the predictor study series) having open cardiac operations before the availability of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation; 27 of these patients died. data were collected at 1 and 8 hours postoperatively to determine if any parameters might predict early mortality. with these parameters used as criteria, patients who went on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation were as sick as those who died before extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was available. the most common complication was bleeding related to heparinization. the mean transfusion requirement in survivors was 1.50 +/- 1.13 ml/kg/hr, 5.63 +/- 7.0 ml/kg/hr in the nonsurvivors, and 7.46 +/- 8.29 ml/kg/hr in those cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from bypass. four children had intracranial hemorrhage, and two of them died. there was one late death. nine of the 22 survivors are entirely normal. all survivors who do not have down's syndrome are considered to have normal central nervous system function. we conclude that extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can improve survival in patients with both pulmonary artery hypertension and low cardiac output after operations for congenital heart disease.
status epilepticus in infancy and childhood. status epilepticus implies a prolonged seizure or recurrent seizures with persistent decreased consciousness, lasting at least 30 minutes. both convulsive and nonconvulsive forms exist, either of which may lead to death or additional neurologic deficit. therapy involves careful supportive care plus some combination of benzodiazepines, phenytoin, or phenobarbital. the outcome depends first on the etiology and second on the rapidity with which seizures are controlled.
abscess of the sphenoid sinus after transsphenoidal surgery. a case of a bacterial abscess developing in the sphenoid sinus 2 weeks after transsphenoidal surgery is presented. although abscesses within the sella turcica have been reported as rare complications of transsphenoidal surgery, this is the first reported case of the postoperative formation of an abscess of the sphenoid sinus. the patient sought treatment for severe headaches, nausea and vomiting, and marked temperature elevation. a computed tomographic scan demonstrated soft tissue and air within the sphenoid sinus. a regimen of stress doses of hydrocortisone and antibiotics was prescribed, and the patient underwent transsphenoidal drainage of the sphenoid sinus. the sella turcica was not involved. anaerobic cultures were positive for fusobacterium necrophorum.
trapped-lung syndrome after cardiac surgery: a potentially preventable complication of pleural injury. a case of trapped-lung syndrome after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) is presented. a significant pleural injury occurred during the bypass operation resulting in intrapleural hemorrhage, pleural fibrosis, and trapped-lung syndrome. the physicians caring for the patient when she was first seen with the trapped-lung syndrome were unaware of the potential relationship between the two prior bypass surgeries to this pulmonary complication. recognition of the potential for pleural injury to occur after cardiac operations is important and may allow for earlier diagnosis and institution of appropriate therapeutic interventions. early recognition and treatment with pleural fluid drainage and reexpansion of the collapsed lung may help prevent this potentially serious pleuropulmonary complication from occurring. in addition, the presentation of this pleuropulmonary complication may be delayed after the cardiac surgery, making early diagnosis more problematic.
mast cell heterogeneity in chronic idiopathic urticaria. patients with chronic urticaria are more sensitive to codeine skin testing than other allergic individuals. nonlesional skin in most patients with chronic urticaria was found to contain increased numbers of both total and atypical mast cells. the presence of increased mast cell density was found to correlate with the degree of clinical (dermatographism) and functional (codeine skin test) skin sensitivity.
combined hemorrhagic shock and head injury: effects of hypertonic saline (7.5%) resuscitation. hypertonic saline resuscitation was compared to isotonic fluid resuscitation in a large animal model combining hemorrhagic shock with head injury. sheep were subjected to a freeze injury of one cerebral hemisphere as well as 2 hours of hypotension at a mean arterial pressure (map) of 40 mm hg. resuscitation was then carried out (map = 80 mm hg) for 1 hour with either lactated ringer's (lr, n = 6) or 7.5% hypertonic saline (hs, n = 6). hemodynamic parameters and intracranial pressure (icp) were followed. at the end of resuscitation brain water content was determined in injured and uninjured hemispheres. no differences were detected in cardiovascular parameters; however, icps were lower in animals resuscitated with hs (4.2 +/- 1.5 mm hg) compared to lr (15.2 +/- 2.2 mm hg, p less than 0.05). additionally, brain water content (ml h2o/gm dry weight) in uninjured brain hemispheres was lower after hs resuscitation (hs = 3.3 +/- 0.1; lr = 4.0 +/- 0.1; p less than 0.05). no differences were detected in the injured hemispheres. we conclude that hypertonic saline abolishes increases in icp seen during resuscitation in a model combining hemorrhagic shock with brain injury by dehydrating areas where the blood-brain barrier is still intact. hypertonic saline may prove useful in the early management of multiple trauma patients.
diagnosis of thymoma in myasthenics using anti-striated muscle antibodies: predictive value and gain in diagnostic certainty. assay of anti-striated muscle antibodies (strab) is used as a diagnostic test for thymoma in individuals with myasthenia gravis. unfortunately, false positive results are common, and their effect on test accuracy is magnified by the relatively low frequency of thymoma in myasthenics. we estimated the predictive values of positive and negative strab assays (pv+ and pv-) and gain in diagnostic certainty using values for sensitivity, specificity, and thymoma frequency previously reported in the literature. sensitivity for indirect immunofluorescence assays ranged from 0.83 to 0.84 (pooled estimate = 0.84; n = 68). specificity ranged from 0.73 to 0.88 (pooled estimate = 0.77; n = 898). frequency of thymoma ranged from 0.07 to 0.17 (pooled estimate = 0.12; n = 4,515). the expected gain in diagnostic certainty from strab was minimal in those aged 0 to 20 and those aged 60+. in those aged 20 to 60, a negative test helped to exclude thymoma, and a positive test raised diagnostic suspicion but was not sufficient to establish a diagnosis of thymoma (pv+ = 0.46).
unusual posterior retinal holes associated with high myopia in xyy syndrome. a 49-year-old xyy man was found to have high myopia ou with unusual multiple retinal atrophic holes located in the posterior pole, unrelated to a posterior staphyloma or any other myopic degenerative changes. most of the retinal holes showed signs of self-healing, with no evidence of vitreous traction or retinal detachment. high myopia and atrophic retinal holes have been found in other chromosomal disorders and in one sex-chromosomal abnormality.
the surgical treatment of ingrowing toenails. two prospective studies of ingrowing toenail management were conducted. in the first, 163 patients (204 ingrowing nail edges) who had not had previous surgery were randomised and treated by total nail avulsion, nail edge excision, or nail edge excision with phenolisation of the germinal matrix; recurrence rates one year postoperatively were 73%, 73% and 9% respectively. in the second study, 63 ingrowing nail edges which had recurred after previous operations underwent nail edge excision and phenolisation. there was a 5% recurrence rate and 5% incidence of dystrophy of the nail one year after operation.
new horizons in the treatment of coronary artery thrombosis. the application of recombinant dna methodology to clinical medicine offers the clinician a new generation of more potent and specific therapies. recombinant methods offer great promise in the treatment of coronary artery thrombosis. this review focuses on the characterization of 1) molecules that activate plasminogen locally (in the vicinity of a thrombus) rather than systemically, and 2) molecules that offer new approaches to the inhibition of platelet activation and thrombin activity. we first describe the methods used to uncover these molecules and their characterization at the molecular level. the ways in which this knowledge can lead to the development of agents tailored to clinical needs are then explored.
primary inflammatory reaction in synovial fluid and tissue in rabbit immobilization osteoarthritis. the kinetics and composition of the primary cellular inflammatory process were studied in the synovial fluid (sf) and synovial tissue (st) compartments of a rabbit knee immobilization osteoarthritis model. immobilization induced rapid migration of neutrophils (59% +/- 26% of all cells) into sf in three days, which was accompanied by nonspecific esterase-positive monocytes (71% +/- 8% of all mononuclear cells). this finding suggests that non-specific inflammation mediated by phagocytic leukocytes predominates the cellular response in the sf compartment. in contrast, morphometric analysis of st proper showed an inflammatory mononuclear cell response, the intensity of which diminished over time during the study period from day 3 (416 +/- 59 cells per 0.049 mm2 st tissue) through day 10 (305 +/- 32 cells) to day 35 (174 +/- 36 cells). a dotlike t-pattern alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase (anae) was found in the t-cell-dependent areas of secondary lymphatic tissue in the spleen, enabling immunocytologic anae marker studies. the st response in situ was predominated by tissue macrophage, though infiltrates rich in t lymphocytes were present in the immediate sublining stroma. there was a significant correlation between the intensity of the sf cell response (total recovery) and the percentage of neutrophils, but there was no correlation between the intensity of the st response and the proportion of t lymphocytes. these t-cell accumulations together with the local proliferation of fibroblastlike lining cells and stromal fibroblasts suggest that the primary inflammatory cell response is not caused by either wear and tear or mechanically by cartilage fragments.
central neurogenic hyperventilation: pharmacologic intervention with morphine sulfate and correlative analysis of respiratory, sleep, and ocular motor dysfunction. central neurogenic hyperventilation (cnh), for which there is no effective therapy, can eventually result in respiratory fatigue and death. this report describes a patient with cnh due to a brainstem anaplastic astrocytoma who also exhibited disturbances of sleep and ocular motor function. the cnh responded clinically to morphine sulfate and methadone. analysis of ventilatory response to co2 before and after morphine demonstrated a depression of ventilatory response (49 to 53% of baseline) and occlusion pressure response (35 to 50% of baseline) to co2, with a requirement for high doses of naloxone (10 mg iv) to reverse the effect. polysomnography revealed sustained hyperventilation, elevated o2 saturation, and low end-tidal co2 throughout all stages of non-rapid eye movement (nrem) sleep, and absence of rapid eye movement (rem) sleep. ocular motor evaluation disclosed absence of horizontal and reflexive saccades with compensatory head thrusts. correlation of the clinical and physiologic data with the mri abnormalities suggested that the lesion responsible for cnh in this patient might reside in the medial tegmental parapontine reticular formation. since recurrent episodes of hyperventilation responded in a sustained fashion to iv and oral opiates, this treatment may warrant consideration in other patients with cnh.
arteriovenous fistula as a complication of temporary pacemaker insertion: treatment with percutaneous embolization. arteriovenous fistula is a rare complication of central venous catheterization. we present a case of right internal mammary artery-to-right innominate vein fistula resulting from emergent insertion of a temporary pacemaker. percutaneous management is discussed and the literature is reviewed.
temporal arteritis presenting as a submandibular swelling. temporal arteritis (giant cell arteritis) is a disease of protean manifestation. a case which presented as a submandibular swelling is reported.
pneumocephalus secondary to a high-pressure water injury to the nose. we report a case of pneumocephalus following a water jet injury to the nose incurred during a water-skiing fall. pneumocephalus due to this type of injury has not been previously reported, to our knowledge. since this unusual injury may be associated with serious complications, it must be promptly recognized and treated.
cervical lymph node metastasis: assessment of radiologic criteria. to estimate the accuracy of different radiologic criteria used to detect cervical lymph node metastasis in patients with head and neck carcinoma, seven different characteristics of 2,719 lymph nodes in 71 neck dissection specimens from 55 patients were assessed. three lymph node diameters, their location, their number, the presence of a tumor, and the amount of necrosis and fatty metaplasia were recorded. the minimal diameter in the axial plane was found to be the most accurate size criterion for predicting lymph node metastasis. a minimal axial diameter of 10 mm was determined to be the most effective size criterion. the size criterion for lymph nodes in the subdigastric region was 1 mm larger (11 mm). groups of three or more borderline nodes were proved to increase the sensitivity but did not significantly decrease the specificity. radiologically detectable necrosis (3 mm or larger) was found only in tumorous nodes and was present in 74% of the positive neck dissection specimens. shape was not a valuable criterion for the radiologic assessment of the cervical lymph node status.
magnetic resonance in pediatric and adolescent neuroimaging. with improved availability and a practical understanding of the principles of utilization, mri will continue to replace ct and us in pediatric neuroimaging, just as it has impacted upon the more invasive modalities. in general, us remains the procedure of choice for screening of fetal and infant cns abnormalities, and ct continues as the principal screening modality beyond infancy and especially for acute, emergent presentations. mri has now emerged as a primary option for screening as well as for more definitive assessment of many intracranial and most intraspinal conditions.
duration of the qt interval and total and cardiovascular mortality in healthy persons (the framingham heart study experience). the baseline electrocardiograms of 5,125 original subjects of the framingham heart study were measured to examine the relation of the qt interval corrected for heart rate (qtc) to risk of total mortality, sudden cardiac death, and death due to coronary artery disease over a 30-year follow-up period. quintiles of qtc (seconds) less than or equal to 0.36, 0.36 to 0.38, 0.39 to 0.40, 0.41 to 0.43 and greater than or equal to 0.44 were studied in relation to these outcomes. there were no significant differences in the risk of total mortality, sudden cardiac death or death due to coronary artery disease according to qtc. a similar lack of significant association between qtc and these 3 outcomes was observed among all persons studied and in the 2 sexes after using a multiple regression analysis to control for several potentially confounding characteristics including age, gender, cigarette smoking, serum total cholesterol, systolic systemic blood pressure and framingham relative weight. the results of this study fail to demonstrate an association between baseline qtc and overall mortality, and deaths due to sudden cardiac events or coronary artery disease in a large population-based cohort of essentially healthy persons in whom pathologic forms of qtc prolongation are uncommon.
posttachycardia t-wave changes. a 25-year-old previously healthy man presented to the emergency department with a tachydysrhythmia. after pharmacological intervention, the patient's rhythm converted to normal sinus and symmetrically inverted t-wave changes were noted. although asymptomatic after conversion, the patient was admitted to the hospital and monitored for two days to rule out cardiac ischemia correlating with the t-wave changes. the patient was ultimately discharged in good health. a review of the emergency medical literature fails to reveal examples of post-tachycardic t-wave changes that may simulate myocardial ischemia but be of no clinical significance.
efficacy and toxicity of sodium stibogluconate for mucosal leishmaniasis. objective: to determine the efficacy and toxicity of the world health organization's (who) recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis: antimony, 20 mg/kg body weight per day for 28 days. design: open trial with 12-month follow-up. setting: inpatient unit of a regional referral hospital in a developing country. patients: twenty-nine consecutive eligible patients with culture-confirmed infection of the mucosa with leishmania species who were otherwise healthy. eight patients (28%) had mild to moderate disease (confined to the nasal mucosa). twenty-one patients (72%) had severe disease (including the oropharynx as well as the nasal mucosa). intervention: antimony, 20 mg/kg body weight intravenously every day for 28 days. patients received antimony in the form of sodium stibogluconate. measurements and main results: initial results of therapy were as follows: 63 of 72 lesions (88%) healed or markedly improved; all lesions were culture-negative for parasites; and 18 of 29 patients (62%) showed complete clinical and parasitologic cure of all lesions. by the 12-month follow-up examinations, however, 37 lesions had recurred, 8 new lesions had appeared, and only 8 patients (30%) showed clinical cure of all lesions. of the 8 patients with mild to moderate disease, 6 were cured compared with only 2 of the 21 patients with severe disease. side effects of this treatment regimen included t-wave inversion on electrocardiogram (4 patients), abnormal liver function tests (10 patients), and musculoskeletal pain (24 patients). no side effects occurred during week 1 of therapy. conclusions: the only recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis is ineffective in patients with severe disease. the acceptable toxicity of the regimen suggests that longer courses of therapy with antimony, or that trials with other antileishmanial agents alone or combined with antimony be evaluated as initial therapy for this disease.
osteonecrosis of the knee after arthroscopic surgery: diagnosis with mr imaging. spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee typically is a disease of the elderly characterized by an acute onset of pain. the exact cause of this condition has long been debated, although a causative relationship between meniscal tears and spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee has been postulated. seven patients with knee pain, meniscal tears, and chondromalacia without initial evidence of osteonecrosis at magnetic resonance (mr) imaging underwent arthroscopic surgery with meniscal recontouring or repair and cartilage shaving. these patients returned within 2-14 months with recurrent pain in the treated knee. mr imaging then demonstrated abnormalities consistent with osteonecrosis. osteonecrosis of the femoral condyle or tibial plateau may be a late sequela of meniscal injury in association with chondromalacia and arthroscopic surgery. this diagnosis should be suspected in patients with recurrent knee pain after arthroscopic repair of meniscal tears. the precise relationship of this pattern of osteonecrosis to that previously described as spontaneous requires further investigation.
adult height in boys and girls with untreated short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty: accuracy of five different methods of height prediction. to determine how accurately several methods of height prediction estimate adult height, we compared height predictions calculated by the bayley-pinneau, roche-wainer-thissen (rwt), target height, and tanner-whitehouse mark i (tw-mi), and mark ii (tw-mii) methods with final adult height in 37 boys and 32 girls with short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty. they were first seen at a chronologic age (mean +/- sd) of 14.80 +/- 1.70 years (boys) and 12.87 +/- 2.56 years (girls). adult height at 23.14 +/- 1.95 years and 21.05 +/- 2.02 years was 170.4 +/- 5.4 cm (boys) and 157.8 +/- 4.2 cm (girls), respectively, and thus within the lower range of normal. height predictions were calculated for the total group and for patients with parents of normal (group 1) as well as short stature (group 2). for boys, the rwt method gave very accurate results, underestimating adult height by -0.6 cm for the total group. the prediction errors for the other methods were -7.3 cm (tw-mi), -4.2 cm (tw-mii), and +3.1 cm (bayley-pinneau method) or +1.7 cm (target height). for girls, no method was superior in estimating adult height. the mean prediction error was -0.8 cm, -2.1 cm, and -1.8 cm with the bayley-pinneau, tw-mi, and tw-mii methods, respectively. in contrast, adult height was overpredicted by +2.3 cm and +1.2 cm with the rwt and target height methods. we conclude that patients with short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty reach an adult height in the lower range of normal. height prediction methods differ with respect to their accuracy and their tendency to overestimate or underestimate adult height.
pontine supranuclear facial palsy. two patients presented with a unilateral supranuclear facial palsy. additional dysarthria was attributed to the pontine origin documented by magnetic resonance imaging on the contralateral side. the pontine disorder also was indicated by an isolated delay of the blink reflex r1 component or of the masseter reflex. we attribute the facial palsy to a lesion of a supranuclear fiber bundle supplying the facial nucleus. the location of the lesions favors these fibers taking a separate course from the main pyramidal tract at the mid- to upper pontine level.
combination of anandron with orchiectomy in treatment of metastatic prostate cancer. results of a double-blind study. a multicenter, randomized double-blind study was carried out in 203 patients with metastatic prostate cancer, in order to compare the efficacy of complete suppression of androgens achieved with surgical castration and nilutamide (anandron), 100 mg t.i.d. the combined therapy was well-tolerated by patients, and they noted a better relief of bone pain after six months than those in the control group. there was a greater number of favorable responses in the combined treatment group. in addition, despite a similar median progression-free actuarial rate, the combined treatment (nilutamide plus orchiectomy) offered an improved survival time over orchiectomy alone.
gastrointestinal bleeding in a 15 month old male. a presentation of munchausen's syndrome by proxy. munchausen's syndrome by proxy is a well-described entity that may not always be immediately considered in a complicated case. we describe this syndrome being portrayed through the guise of gastrointestinal bleeding in a 15 month old male and discuss not only the difficulty involved in solidifying this diagnosis but also the consequences that may occur should this diagnosis not be entertained. failure to diagnose munchausen's syndrome by proxy often results from failure to consider the diagnosis. these cases frequently have specific characteristics that allow seasoned clinicians to suspect the diagnosis. once the diagnosis is considered, it is crucial to take steps to protect not only the index patient but also siblings who not infrequently are also recipients of this life threatening form of child abuse.
reverse coitus: mechanism of urethral injury in male partner. reverse coitus, a rarely used sexual position, makes the male urethra more vulnerable to injury from the pubic arch and symphysis pubis of the female partner. severe pain, bleeding and immediate detumescence were observed in 3 patients. the lesion usually occurred at the fossa navicularis, responded well to conservative management and did not hinder micturition. potency has been well preserved in all 3 patients.
hypercalcemia in malignancy. the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in malignancy has been enigmatic until recent years. since the realization in 1980 that bioassays for parathyroid hormone detected a cross-reacting substance in malignancy, progress has been remarkably rapid. a parathyroid hormone-related protein was purified and identified by molecular cloning as a 141-amino acid peptide with limited homology to parathyroid hormone itself. nonetheless, both peptides activate the parathyroid hormone receptor to produce hypercalcemia. it is now clear that the parathyroid hormone-related protein is the cause of hypercalcemia in most solid tumors, particularly squamous and renal carcinomas. new assays for the hormone as well as the related peptide have greatly simplified the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia. at the same time, new agents for the treatment of hypercalcemia are becoming available, most notably the bisphosphonate drugs.
gallbladder varices: imaging findings in patients with portal hypertension. a retrospective review of the medical and imaging records of 50 patients with portal hypertension examined in the authors' department during a 2-year period identified six patients with gallbladder wall varices. imaging studies performed in these patients included computed tomography (ct) (four patients), duplex and color doppler flow (five patients), and magnetic resonance (mr) (four patients). five of six patients with gallbladder varices had portal vein thrombosis. anechoic areas within the gallbladder wall detected with ultrasonography could be distinguished from intramural edema by using duplex or color doppler flow imaging in all five patients in whom it was used. contrast material enhancement of these varices was detected with ct in three patients, two of whom also had adjacent mesenteric collaterals. gradient-echo mr imaging (fast imaging in steady precession/fast low-angle shot) showed flow-related enhancement within the gallbladder wall in two patients. the presence of gallbladder wall varices may imply the presence of portal vein thrombosis. since these varices can be a source of major blood loss, surgeons must be made aware of them when operating on patients with portal hypertension.
serial ultrasonographic evaluation of neonatal vein of galen malformations to assess the efficacy of interventional neuroradiological procedures. two-dimensional echocardiography complemented with color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasound was used to evaluate one fetus and five neonates with a vein of galen malformation who had severe high-output congestive heart failure and cranial bruits at birth. intracranial blood flow through the vein of galen malformations, cardiac status, and direction of aortic blood flow were assessed before and after staged interventional neuroradiological treatment with transarterial and transvenous embolization procedures. color-flow imaging in each infant displayed the major vascular anatomy including feeding vessels and the patterns of filling of the vein of galen malformations. pulsed doppler ultrasound performed on the descending aorta above the diaphragm showed the degree of diastolic flow reversal indicative of runoff into the vein of galen malformations. a reduction in blood flow through the vein of galen malformation was seen on color-flow imaging in four patients treated successfully by embolic procedures. the ratio of diastolic retrograde flow velocity in the descending aorta to systolic antegrade velocity decreased from 0.51 +/- 0.15 (mean +/- standard deviation) to 0.15 +/- 0.20 (p less than 0.05). color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasonography provided anatomical and pathophysiological information regarding cardiac hemodynamics and intracranial blood flow; with the patient's clinical status, these methods provided a reliable, noninvasive means to evaluate the effectiveness of therapy and the need for further treatment in neonates with vein of galen malformations.
prospective observations of 100 high-risk neonates by high-field (1.5 tesla) magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system: i. intraventricular and extracerebral lesions. the results of observations of the first 100 neonates at the university of texas health science center (houston) who received magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system by means of a high-field image (1.5 t) are reported. all were assessed prospectively to be at risk neurodevelopmental delay. this first report specifically addresses the appearance of primarily hemorrhagic intracranial lesions, including intraventricular hemorrhage (n = 28), and extracerebral lesions, which include 3 cases of venous sinus thrombosis (n = 20). the signal intensities of hemorrhage underwent a characteristic evolution with time with only minor variations in the study group. magnetic resonance imaging detected direct evidence of hemorrhage for up to 2 months, but hemosiderin was detected as a late indicator of hemorrhage for up to 9 months. magnetic resonance imaging was equal in benefit to head ultrasonography and computed tomography for the diagnosis of intraventricular hemorrhage, but magnetic resonance imaging was also able to approximate the time of onset of hemorrhage. magnetic resonance imaging was superior for the evaluation of extracerebral hemorrhage; ultrasonography failed to detect any of these lesions and computed tomography detected only 3 of 7. short-term neurological abnormality was assessed, but the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to predict long-term neurodevelopmental delay is unknown and is the subject of an ongoing project.
the modified schollner costoplasty. the modified schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis. we present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis. we found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications. objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case. all but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit.
cholesterol screening in a black inner-city pediatric population. a screening for total blood cholesterol levels was conducted by the university of louisville department of family practice in association with the national youth sports program in louisville, kentucky. on may 30, 1987, 224 inner-city children between 10 and 16 years of age were tested; 109 (49%) were girls and 115 (51%) were boys. all participants were black. of the entire population, the girls had a slightly lower mean level of cholesterol than the boys (160 mg/dl vs 165 mg/dl, respectively). because of the large number of participants aged 10 to 14 years (211), this subset of children was studied more closely. in this age group, 47 (22%) of the children were at moderate risk for future cardiovascular disease and 48 (23%) were at high risk. the serum cholesterol levels were relatively constant in all children until age 12, after which a slight reduction occurred. this decrease is more evident in boys. our study also showed a correlation between increased blood cholesterol and above normal weight/height indices (ie, quetelet scores), with nearly 70% of all children having elevated cholesterol levels also exhibiting above normal quetelet scores. we observed no correlation between high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure in this study population. dietary intervention is recommended as the initial treatment for elevated cholesterol levels in children.
inositol phosphate formation in the human squamous cell carcinoma line scc-12 f: studies with bradykinin, the calcium ionophore a23187, and sodium fluoride. the phospholipase c (plc)-mediated hydrolysis of membrane phosphoinositides is an important signal transduction pathway coupled to the cell-surface receptors for several hormones and growth factors. in addition, plc activity can be modulated by changes in intracellular calcium and activation of gtp binding proteins. in this report, differential activation of plc in the human keratinocyte cell line scc-12f was studied as judged by specific patterns of inositol phosphate formation. several hormones and growth factors previously shown to stimulate plc in a variety of cell types were screened for activity in scc-12f cells. only bradykinin was active, stimulating the plc-dependent generation of inositol (1,4,5) triphosphate (ins(1,4,5)p3). ins(1,4,5)p3 was rapidly metabolized to inositol(1,4)biphosphate (ins(1,4)p2) and inositol(1,3,4,5)tetrakisphosphate (ins(1,3,4,5)p4), and subsequently degraded to inositol monophosphates. the response elicited by bradykinin was concentration dependent (ec50 value of 50 nm), suggesting involvement of a specific bradykinin receptor. treatment of these cells with the calcium ionophore a23187 appeared to result in the direct formation of ins(1,4)p2 without ins(1,4,5)p3 as precursor. treatment of the cells with aif4-, a putative activator of gtp binding proteins, resulted in the generation of inositol monophosphates as the major metabolites in the absence of detectable ins(1,4,5)p3 formation. taken together, these observations suggest that the plc complex present in scc-12f cells can be differentially activated to yield either ins(1,4,5)p3, ins(1,4)p2, or insp. the observed effects may be due to a direct plc-dependent hydrolysis of the appropriate membrane phosphoinositide.
respiratory muscle strength in congestive heart failure. in experimental animals, conditions which drastically decrease cardiac output may reduce the strength and endurance of respiratory muscles leading to hypercapnic respiratory failure. because patients with chronic chf have reduced cardiac output and vital capacity (fvc), we measured pimax and pemax and maximal handgrip force in 16 patients with chf and 18 amns. the patients with chf had a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 26 +/- 7 percent. maximal respiratory pressures were significantly reduced; group mean values (+/- sd) for pimax at frc were 41.4 +/- 5.6 cm h2o (chf) and 102.1 +/- 27.4 cm h2o (amn) (p less than 0.001), with pimax values in five patients with chf as low as 20 to 30 cm h2o. in most patients, pemax was comparably reduced. handgrip force was less dramatically reduced, suggesting selective respiratory muscle weakness. possible explanations include reduction in respiratory muscle blood flow or generalized muscular atrophy and weakness related to cardiac cachexia.
growth hormone inhibits tumor metastasis. the effect of growth hormone on tumor growth and metabolism in the tumor-bearing host is unknown. this study was done to determine the effect of recombinant growth hormone on primary tumor growth, tumor metastasis, and carcass weight in tumor-bearing animals. twenty-seven female lobund/wistar rats with subcutaneous prostate tumor implants (pa-iii) were randomized to receive a standard protein diet (22.0% protein; 4.27 kcal/g) or an isocaloric, protein-depleted diet (0.03% protein; 4.27 kcal/g) ad libitum orally. one half of the animals in each group were randomized to receive daily injections of either recombinant growth hormone (1000 mu/kg/day intramuscularly) or placebo (saline) for 14 days. a significant increase in body weight was observed in growth hormone-treated animals without acceleration of primary tumor growth. spontaneous pulmonary metastasis was inhibited significantly in animals in both dietary groups treated with growth hormone. thus, growth hormone selectively supports host growth and inhibits pulmonary metastasis in this tumor-bearing animal model. the potential metabolic effects and clinical consequences of treating cancer patients with growth hormone is discussed.
does auxiliary heterotopic liver transplantation reverse hypersplenism and portal hypertension? in this study, performed to assess the effect of auxiliary heterotopic liver transplantation on portal hypertension and hypersplenism, eight patients with chronic liver disease who underwent the procedure and had functioning grafts for at least 6 months were analyzed. the transplantation resulted in (a) normalization of platelet and leukocyte counts, (b) reduction of splenomegaly by 20% +/- 3% (p less than 0.02), (c) disappearance of ascites, and (d) diminution of esophageal varices in all patients. intraoperatively, the mean portacaval pressure gradient decreased with 54% +/- 7% after recirculation of the graft (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, a functioning auxiliary heterotopic liver graft decompresses portal hypertension and reverses hypersplenism.
multicenter long-term safety and efficacy study of vigabatrin for refractory complex partial seizures: an update. we followed 66 patients with refractory complex partial seizures and a favorable initial response to vigabatrin for 5 to 72 (median, 43) months. thirty-seven patients discontinued vigabatrin for the following reasons: benefit-to-risk evaluation, 8; seizure breakthrough, 6; adverse events, 6; seizure breakthrough and adverse events, 5; moved or lost, 4; no longer eligible for study, 2; non-drug-related death, 2; narcotic abuse, 1; and patient request, three. there were no clinically significant abnormalities in laboratory studies including sma 12, complete blood count, ecg, eeg, and visual evoked response testing, and no toxicity other than reversible, dose-dependent side effects. based on this and other long-term data, clinical trials of vigabatrin have resumed in the united states and canada.
elevated insulin, norepinephrine, and neuropeptide y in hypertension. to investigate the relationship between insulin and sympathetic activity, plasma norepinephrine, neuropeptide y, serum glucose and insulin concentrations were measured in ten age-, weight-, and sex-matched normotensive and untreated hypertensive subjects at fasting and 2 h following ingestion of a 75 g oral glucose dose. hypertensives had higher fasting serum insulin (27 +/- 6 v 12 +/- 2 microu/ml; p = .02) and plasma norepinephrine (356 +/- 38 v 235 +/- 35 pg/ml; p = .03) concentrations than normotensives. glucose load increased serum insulin (p less than .001) and plasma norepinephrine concentrations (p = .001) in both groups and hypertensives had still higher postglucose insulin (p = .003) and norepinephrine levels (p = .003) than normotensives. fasting neuropeptide y was higher in hypertensives than in normotensives (p = .03) and correlated with age in both groups (r = 0.7; r = 0.77). postglucose serum insulin correlated positively with plasma norepinephrine (r = 0.75; p = .013) in normotensives, but these parameters correlated negatively in hypertensives (r = -0.7; p = .036). we hypothesize that elevated plasma norepinephrine and neuropeptide y levels reflect an increased level of sympathetic nervous activity in hypertensives, which in turn may be responsible for the abnormal relationship between plasma ne and insulin levels.
patency rate of implantable devices during long-term intraarterial chemotherapy. intraarterial implantable drug delivery systems have been considered as an alternative method for treating patients with unresectable liver malignancies. however, catheter problems with external implanted devices have resulted in limited application of chemotherapy. the introduction of subcutaneous devices offers an opportunity for long-term locoregional chemotherapy. twelve external intraarterial catheters were implanted into 12 patients and 52 subcutaneously placed devices into 51 patients, all with various hepatic malignancies. retrospective analyses comparing those two intraarterial systems were conducted taking into account the function and complication rate (hepatic artery thrombosis, infection, leaking, hemorrhage, and dislocation). the follow-up time for the external system was two to eight months (median five weeks), the thrombosis rate 33.3%, and the infection rate 25%. one instance of severe bleeding from the hepatic artery occurred during chemotherapy. one catheter dislocated. for the subcutaneously implanted intraarterial devices the follow-up time was five to forty-one months (median sixteen months), the thrombotic complication rate 17.3%, and the infection rate 7.6% (all patients with simultaneous bowel surgery). catheter dislocation one year later required reimplantation; in 1 patient therapy had to be discontinued because of a catheter leak. the overall function rate was 71.3% with a median follow-up time of eight months. anticoagulation therapy for subcutaneously implanted devices starting from the beginning of intraarterial chemotherapy is recommended to achieve long-term patency. no implantation should be preformed simultaneously with bowel surgery. the subcutaneously placed intraarterial devices had a higher function rate and were available for a longer period as compared with external implanted catheters.
usefulness of blood lactate as a predictor of shock development in acute myocardial infarction [published erratum appears in am j cardiol 1991 apr 15;67(9):912] data were obtained and analyzed in 229 patients admitted to the coronary care unit from november 1988 through july 1989. the patients were classified into 2 groups: patients without or with only mild left ventricular failure (killip class i or ii) during their hospital stay (group i), and patients who were in killip class i or ii on admission but developed cardiogenic shock during hospitalization (group ii). discriminant function analysis was performed using the following variables: patients' age, history of previous myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, blood lactate, urea, creatinine, creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase concentrations, and chest x-ray cardiothoracic ratio. variables that were found to significantly discriminate the 2 groups of patients were age, previous infarction, x-ray cardiothoracic ratio, blood urea and lactate concentrations. the risk index was computed, and blood lactate was the variable with the greatest predictive power for shock development. the sensitivity, specificity and predictive value of the risk index, taking various cutoff points, were calculated. with a cutoff value of 1, sensitivity was 65%, specificity 91%, positive predictive value 36% and negative predictive value 97%. with a cutoff value of 2, sensitivity was 53%, specificity 99%, positive predictive value 82% and negative predictive value 96%.
doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension: an echocardiographic study. sixteen patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension received 1 to 8 mg/day of doxazosin (mean daily dose, 2.7 mg). blood pressure reduction (supine and standing) was highly significant (p less than 0.001), and no significant changes in heart rate were observed. a significant reduction (p less than 0.01) in left ventricular mass was seen without a change in left ventricular systolic function. all side effects were mild, and only one patient withdrew from the study.
effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects. the effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease (mean age 40 (sd 13) years) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 (36) months before the study. all patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases. bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance (sgaw) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol (45-1260 micrograms). the dose producing a 35% decrease in sgaw (pd35) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis. mean baseline sgaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid (1.35 (0.36) and 1.41 (0.56) s-1 kpa-1). the interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sgaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group (14% versus 8%). geometric mean pd35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid (97 micrograms) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid (192 micrograms). it is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects.
expression of enzymatically active sucrase-isomaltase is a ubiquitous property of colon adenocarcinomas. adenocarcinoma of the colon is one of the most prevalent and lethal of all human malignancies. the early diagnosis and management of this disease could be improved if biological markers, whose expression was restricted to malignant colon cells, were identified. sucrase-isomaltase is a glycoprotein hydrolase expressed throughout the small intestine and fetal colon but not in the normal adult colon. this study shows that the expression of enzymatically active sucrase-isomaltase is a ubiquitous property of primary and metastatic colon adenocarcinoma. significant sucrase enzyme activity (i.e., greater than 5 mu/mg protein) was observed in 16 colon carcinomas but not in adjacent normal colon mucosa. sucrase-isomaltase messenger rna was identified in all tumors using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis, this study shows that the amount of sucrase-isomaltase messenger rna in tumors examined (3.4 x 10(-8) to 3.19 x 10(-7) micrograms/micrograms total rna) was greater than in adjacent mucosa (0 to 3.4 x 10(-8) micrograms/micrograms total rna). this induction of sucrase-isomaltase messenger rna and enzyme activity was corroborated by immunostaining. of 30 colon adenocarcinomas examined, 80% were positive for sucrase-isomaltase. in addition, all colon carcinoma metastases examined were positive for sucrase-isomaltase. the staining pattern was distinct and demarcated tumor cells from the surrounding histologically normal tissue. no sucrase-isomaltase staining was seen in normal mucosa from the same patients. with the exception of lung, no sucrase-isomaltase immunostaining was observed in a variety of examined noncolonic adenocarcinomas. thus, the specificity and ubiquity of sucrase-isomaltase expression in adenocarcinomas of the colon can be exploited to improve the clinical management of this disease. in addition, studies on the structure of the sucrase-isomaltase gene and its regulatory elements should contribute toward understanding the alteration of gene expression by oncogenic transformation of the colonic mucosa.
early detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia: physician practices in canada. we surveyed primary care physicians in canada to determine their current practices regarding the detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia in asymptomatic adults 20 years of age or more and to determine the role of selected patient characteristics (age, sex and the presence of coronary heart disease [chd] risk factors) in their management decisions. the self-administered questionnaire was completed by 428 of 804 family physicians and general practitioners. the proportion of physicians who reported having tested at least 50% of their adult patients varied from 29% to 85% and was related to the number of chd risk factors present and the patient's age. the proportion of respondents who reported starting dietary or drug therapy among patients with a cholesterol level of 6.2 mmol/l or less increased as the number of chd risk factors increased and was not related to patient age or sex. according to the factors examined our results suggest that primary care physicians in canada select patients for screening and treatment mainly on the basis of chd risk factors present and that their approach is more conservative than that recommended by the canadian and us consensus conferences.
free alpha subunit of the pituitary glycoprotein hormones. measurement in serum and tissue of patients with pituitary tumors. a solid-phase radioimmunoassay was developed that measures the free alpha subunits of pituitary glycoprotein hormones (alpha pgphs) and has negligible cross-reactivity with the intact hormones (less than 0.014% for thyroid-stimulating hormone [tsh], less than 0.1% for human chorionic gonadotropin [hcg], 0.8% for luteinizing hormone [lh], and 2.0% for follicle-stimulating hormone [fsh]). the assay is standardized with the alpha subunit of hcg but also reacts well with the alpha subunits of the other glycoprotein hormones (84% for alpha tsh, 77% for alpha fsh, and 64% for alpha lh). concentrations as low as 0.3 micrograms/l can be reliably measured, and the 97.5% reference range in 27 healthy adults, including postmenopausal females, is less than or equal to 1.2 micrograms/l. elevated preoperative alpha pgph concentrations were found in 45 (9.4%) of 479 sera from patients with pituitary adenoma and 3 (4.5%) of 66 patients with nonadenomatous sellar lesions. postoperative alpha pgph levels were lower in 30 of 39 adenoma patients and 2 of 3 nonadenoma patients. in five (1%) of the patients with pituitary adenomas, alpha pgph was the only elevated serum hormone marker. serum values of alpha pgph correlate weakly with alpha subunit immunocytochemical staining--95% of those with negative staining have normal alpha pgph values, but only 18% of those with positive staining have elevated alpha pgph values.
elevated serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors in small cell lung carcinoma. the presence of the soluble form of the interleukin-2 receptors (sil-2r) was evaluated in the serum of 21 patients with small cell lung carcinoma (sclc) and 37 patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma (non-sclc) by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. the sil-2r level was measured serially in patients with sclc both during and after therapy. the mean serum level of sil-2r in patients with sclc was 3.8 times higher than that of 47 healthy controls and was 1.9 times higher than in 37 patients with non-sclc. six patients with sclc had very high levels of sil-2r, ranging from five to 52 times the mean level observed in normal controls. tumor cells in the pleural fluid of the patient with highest levels were positive with monoclonal antibodies to il-2r (cd25), nkh-1, okdr, and okt9. a longitudinal study in this patient showed a good correlation between tumor activity and sil-2r levels. also, the sil-2r levels decreased in patients responding to therapy. these results suggest that some sclcs secrete sil-2r and that the serial measurements of the serum sil-2r levels can be used as a noninvasive tumor marker in this disease.
hepatic venoocclusive disease in autologous bone marrow transplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas. retrospective review of 291 solid tumor and lymphoma patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation (bmt) was performed to determine the influence of pretransplant characteristics and preparative regimen to the development of hepatic venoocclusive disease (vod). twelve patients (4.1%) developed a clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant (ruq) tenderness or hepatomegaly, jaundice, and ascites, with or without encephalopathy, within 40 days of marrow reinfusion. evidence of metastatic liver disease was the only pretransplant characteristic predictive for vod (p = .0002). sex, age, histology, hepatitis b serology, and elevated liver function tests were not predictive. no individual preparative agent had a significant effect on the development of vod. however, a single 2-hour infusion of carmustine (bcnu) (greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2) led to an increased incidence of vod when compared with the same dose administered in a fractionated schedule (p = .0258) when given with two other chemotherapeutic agents. seven of eight autopsy specimens confirmed the clinical diagnosis of vod. the four patients in whom clinical vod resolved had lower median peak bilirubins (7.3 v 15.9 mg/dl), lower median peak creatinines (2.1 v 4.1 mg/dl), and relatively quick engraftment of neutrophils (mean, 18.7 days). one of the four patients in whom vod resolved had other grade 4 (life-threatening) toxicities in contrast to eight of eight who succumbed. in summary, vod is an uncommon complication in autotransplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas. our data suggest caution in selecting patients with known metastatic liver disease and consideration of a fractionated bcnu schedule especially in combination with other alkylating agents.
a simple method to improve the accuracy of non-invasive ultrasound in selecting tia patients for cerebral angiography. a prospective study is reported of the ability of b mode ultrasound imaging and continuous wave doppler flow studies to detect different degrees of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ica) in 186 arteries in 99 patients with transient ischaemic attacks (tia) and minor ischaemic stroke. a simple mathematical equation has been developed which combines the image and flow data to provide a single predictor of the degree of angiographic stenosis which has advantages over either ultrasonic modality used alone. the sensitivity and specificity of the predictive model in the detection of stenosis greater than or equal to 25% was 73% and 98%, of stenosis greater than or equal to 50% was 90% and 93%, of stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, 65% and 99% and occlusion 100% and 94% respectively. the principal clinical value of ultrasound screening is to spare patients with "non-significant" stenosis the risk of unnecessary angiography. thus a simple measure of the duplex screening tests' performance is the proportion of all strokes occurring as a complication of angiography that are avoided by changing the investigation policy from "angiograms for all carotid tia and minor ischaemic stroke patients" to "angiograms for all patients with abnormal ultrasound results". if duplex scanning were used to select patients most likely to have a significant abnormality on angiography, depending on the degree of stenosis to be detected, 52-85% of angiographic strokes might be avoided. if the predictive equation were used 62-88% of angiographic strokes might be avoided.
limits of brain tolerance to daily increments in serum sodium in chronically hyponatraemic rats treated with hypertonic saline or urea: advantages of urea. 1. at present there is no consensus about the optimal management of hyponatraemia to prevent demyelinating brain lesions. we have evaluated in a large series of rats (n = 136) the protective role of urea for the brain in the treatment of severe chronic hyponatraemia. urea (group i, n = 51) was compared with hypertonic saline in boluses (group ii, n = 46) and with hypertonic saline in divided doses (group iii, n = 39). treatment was administered intraperitoneally over 48 h. the severity of brain lesions was assessed by histological scoring. 2. for 95% of the injured animals treated with hypertonic saline, brain lesions appeared for an absolute increment in serum na+ concentration (delta sna+) of 20 mmol day-1 l-1. above this limit neurological injuries gradually worsened, and beyond a transition zone (delta sna+ greater than or equal to 20 less than or equal to 23 mmol day-1 l-1) 89% (group iii) to 100% (group ii) of the animals were injured. this limit can be reached rapidly, as attested by the comparable severity of brain lesions observed in group ii (mean delta sna+ 1 h after a bolus injection, 19 mmol/l) and in group iii (mean delta sna+ 1 h after an injection, 2 mmol/l), both groups achieving similar daily delta sna+. 3. a correction above the threshold of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 is as toxic during the first 24 h as during the second day of the treatment.
heart and lung transplantation for terminal cystic fibrosis. a 4 1/2-year experience. from among 112 patients with cystic fibrosis who were assessed for heart-lung transplantation, 83 were accepted. twenty-six died while awaiting heart-lung transplantation and 32 had the operation. the management and the outcome of these 32 patients is reported. survival, infection, and rejection rates among these patients were compared with those of 61 patients without cystic fibrosis who underwent heart-lung transplantation between 1984 and 1990. the cumulative survival rate was 72.29% +/- 94.91% at 1 year and 55.59% +/- 7.50% at 3 years. the mortality rate was slightly higher in the group with cystic fibrosis during the first year after the operation but it was lower at 3 years. the difference, however, could have been due to chance alone (p = 0.308). the same was true for the prevalence of rejection (up to 6 months: chi 2 = 1.8141, p = 0.17), and infection (up to 6 months: chi 2 = 2.20, p = 0.14), between the two groups. it is concluded that cystic fibrosis does not constitute an additional risk in terms of survival and morbidity after heart-lung transplantation.
exposing patients with chronic, stable, exertional angina to placebo periods in drug trials. because the safety of withholding standard therapy and enrolling patients with stable angina in placebo-controlled trials is not known, we identified all events leading to dropout from trials of 12 antianginal drugs submitted in support of new drug applications to the us food and drug administration. persons who dropped out of the trials were classified as cause due to adverse cardiovascular events or other causes without knowledge of drug assignment. there were 3161 subjects who entered any randomized, double-blind phase of placebo-controlled protocols; 197 (6.2%) withdrew because of cardiovascular events. there was no difference in risk of adverse events between drug and placebo groups. a prospectively defined subgroup analysis showed that groups who received calcium antagonists were at an increased risk of dropout compared with placebo groups (p = .04), primarily because of a disproportionate number of adverse events in studies of one drug. in conclusion, there were few adverse experiences associated with short-term placebo use. withholding active treatment does not increase the risk of serious cardiac events.
recurrent lateral rectus palsy in childhood. five patients with recurrent, lateral rectus palsy in childhood, examined at the university of iowa hospitals over a period of 22 years, are reported. during the same period, 131 abducens nerve palsy patients, younger than 18 years of age, were evaluated. eighteen similar patients, most single case reports, are reviewed from the literature. all reported patients, including our own, shared the following features: spontaneous recovery within 6 months in the majority of patients, ipsilateral recurrence, and painless palsy. there is female and left-sided preponderance. etiology is undetermined. hypotheses include viral etiology, neurovascular compression by aberrant artery, and migraine.
interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy. it has been estimated that 20 million people in the united states have gallstone disease. the choice of the optimal management strategy for a patient with symptomatic gallstones in the 1990s will take into account the clinical status of the patient, the characteristics of the gallstones, and the patient's preference. only patients whose doctors understand the advantages and disadvantages of the newer methods can make properly informed choices. when interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy are being contemplated, one approach is to first consider the patient's clinical presentation (acute or nonacute) and then their risk of death after cholecystectomy (low or high). figure 5 shows an algorithmic approach to the management of gallbladder stones based on this concept. this algorithm also can be used as a framework for discussion of treatment options with any individual patient.
hole preparation techniques for transpedicle screws. effect on pull-out strength from human cadaveric vertebrae. in each of eight thoracolumbar human cadaveric vertebrae, a hole was made through one pedicle into the vertebral body with a drill bit and through the contralateral pedicle with a probe. identical metal screws were implanted into the holes to equal depths, and maximum pull-out force was determined for each screw. using a paired student t test, no significant difference (p = 0.87) was found in pull-out strength between the screws implanted into drilled holes and those implanted into probed holes. in fact, the average pull-out strengths for the two groups differed by less than 2%. the pedicular cortex was broken through during hole preparation in 5 of the 16 pedicles: 3 as a result of drilling and 2 secondary to probing. the average pull-out strength of the screws in these five pedicles was 11.0% less than the average pull-out strength of the screws implanted into the contralateral intact pedicles. although this does not represent a statistically significant difference (p = 0.15), it suggests that damaging the pedicular cortex may weaken pedicle screw fixation.
molecular defect in siblings with prolidase deficiency and absence or presence of clinical symptoms. a 0.8-kb deletion with breakpoints at the short, direct repeat in the pepd gene and synthesis of abnormal messenger rna and inactive polypeptide. prolidase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder with highly variable symptoms, including mental retardation, skin lesions, and abnormalities of collagenous tissues. in japanese female siblings with polypeptide negative prolidase deficiency, and with different degrees of severity of skin lesions, we noted an abnormal mrna with skipping of 192 bp sequence corresponding to exon 14 in lymphoblastoid cells taken from these patients. transfection and expression analyses using the mutant prolidase cdna revealed that a mutant protein translated from the abnormal mrna had an mr of 49,000 and was enzymatically inactive. a 774-bp deletion, including exon 14 was noted in the prolidase gene. the deletion had termini within short, direct repeats ranging in size of 7 bp (ccaccct). the "slipped mispairing" mechanism may predominate in the generation of the deletion at this locus. this mutation caused a 192-bp in-frame deletion of prolidase mrna and was inherited from the consanguineous parents. the same mutation caused a different degree of clinical phenotype of prolidase deficiency in this family, therefore factor(s) not related to the pepd gene product also contribute to development of the clinical symptoms. identification of mutations in the pepd gene from subjects with prolidase deficiency provides further insight into the physiological role and structure-function relationship of this biologically important enzyme.
trisomy 13: a new recurring chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia. a new recurring chromosome abnormality was identified in 8 of 621 consecutive successfully karyotyped adults with de novo acute leukemia. these eight patients had trisomy 13 as the sole cytogenetic abnormality. on central morphologic review, five cases were classified as subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia, one as acute mixed lymphoid and myeloid leukemia, one as acute lymphoid leukemia, and one as acute undifferentiated leukemia. blasts of all eight cases expressed one or more myeloid differentiation antigens. three also expressed t-lineage-associated antigens; however, none of these had rearrangement of the t-cell receptor beta, gamma, or delta genes. four of six cases tested were tdt positive. all eight patients with trisomy 13 were treated with intensive induction chemotherapy; only three entered a short-lived complete remission. survival of patients with trisomy 13 ranged from 0.5 to 14.7 months, and was significantly shorter than that of the remaining patients (median 9.5 v 16.2 months, p = .007). we conclude that trisomy 13 is a rare, recurring clonal chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia associated with a poor prognosis. malignant transformation of an immature hematopoietic precursor cell is suggested by the expression of antigens characteristic of both the myeloid and lymphoid lineage, the high incidence of tdt positivity, and the morphologic heterogeneity in these leukemias.
a cellist with arm pain: thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome. we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity. abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery, and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry. temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference (delta-t) from one hand to the other. in 57 controls, mean delta-t at rest was .309 +/- .254c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t. in our patient, delta-t was ten times control (3.6c). angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain. our patient's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity. intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome.
neuroendocrine activity in congestive heart failure. the increased neuroendocrine activity in patients with congestive heart failure appears to be a generalized attempt to maintain blood pressure at the expense of reduced cardiac performance and salt and water retention. it is likely that baroreceptor dysfunction contributes to increased sympathetic nervous system activity in patients with congestive heart failure. the usual tonic inhibitory messages emanating from baro- and mechanoreceptors in the great vessels and heart fail to adjust sympathetic traffic from the brain to the periphery, leading to uninhibited sympathetic tone. arginine vasopressin and plasma renin activity may be increased secondarily; however, plasma renin activity activation could also be induced by a low-salt diet and diuretic use. preliminary baseline data indicate that patients with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%) but no or very mild symptoms of heart failure have increased plasma levels of norepinephrine, atrial natriuretic factor and arginine vasopressin, while plasma renin activity is normal, suggesting that neuroendocrine activity contributes to the pathogenesis of congestive heart failure. neurohormones such as angiotensin ii may alter gene expression, leading to changes in the shape and size of the cell. remodeling of the heart and blood vessels is associated with both heart failure and hypertension. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been demonstrated to retard or reverse the remodeling process under certain experimental conditions. studies are currently under way to test this possibility in patients.
tricuspid valve incompetence caused by nonpenetrating thoracic trauma. tricuspid valve incompetence from ruptured papillary muscle or chordae as a result of nonpenetrating trauma is uncommon. blunt trauma causing partial detachment of a leaflet from the annulus is very rare. we report the case of a young adult involved in a car accident who had these findings. operative repair with resuture of the leaflet to the annulus and annuloplasty using a carpentier ring resulted in complete recovery.
sequential connection of flaps: a logical approach to customized mandibular reconstruction. microsurgery has improved the success rate for reconstruction of composite defects in the head and neck. restoration of mandibular continuity alone is not adequate for reconstruction. replacement of the oral lining with thin tissue is necessary to improve tongue mobility and to set the stage for later dental restoration. there is currently no ideal osteocutaneous free flap that provides unlimited length of bone, can undergo multiple osteotomies to produce the proper curve to the reconstructed mandible, and provides thin skin for oral lining. combining free flaps can take advantage of the strengths of the individual donor sites and eliminate some of the problems with current osteocutaneous flaps. in six patients, a fibular osseous free flap was combined with either a radial forearm flap or a lateral arm flap to provide bone and oral lining in reconstruction of mandibular composite defects. in these selected patients, the fibula provided the blood supply for the second free flap, which was placed sequentially. the distal peroneal vessels were used to anastomose to the radial forearm vessels or the lateral arm pedicle. this approach allows the surgeon to customize the defect by improving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of reconstruction and is of use in cases where vascular access is limited, such as following head and neck surgery and radiation.
prevalence of helicobacter pylori in specific forms of gastritis. further evidence supporting a pathogenic role for h. pylori in chronic nonspecific gastritis. helicobacter pylori colonization of the gastric mucosa is strongly associated with chronic nonspecific gastritis; moreover, there is evidence to suggest that h. pylori may cause this form of gastritis. however, there is little or no information on the prevalence of h. pylori in specific forms of gastritis. our hypothesis was that if h. pylori was pathogenic in chronic nonspecific gastritis, organisms would be found frequently in this type of gastritis but infrequently in specific forms of gastritis. prevalence rates of h. pylori were determined independently in patients with eosinophilic and crohn's gastritis, menetrier's disease, and chronic nonspecific gastritis. the prevalence of h. pylori in patients with chronic nonspecific gastritis was 71%, whereas the organism was not identified in patients with any form of specific gastritis. this finding further supports the accumulating evidence that h. pylori is a primary pathogenic factor in chronic nonspecific gastritis.
late effects of treatment for wilms' tumor. a report from the national wilms' tumor study group. the national wilms' tumor study (nwts) was initiated in 1969. one of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications. the nwts has therefore incorporated a long term follow-up study (ltfs) within its framework to monitor late effects. the ltfs is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery, and data are collected using specifically designed forms. a total of 787 patients registered on nwts-1 or nwts-2 (1969 to 1979) were eligible, of whom 680 (86%) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and neuropsychologic status, and the presence of benign and malignant tumors. patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported, along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities (32 versus 2), nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation (35 of 57 versus 5 of 53, respectively). the difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive adriamycin (adria laboratories, columbus, oh) (2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk) had borderline statistical significance (p = 0.06). no excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine. when considering patients with disease of all stages, all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation (rt patients); benign tumors were also more frequent in rt patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation (41 of 486 or 8% versus 4 of 194 or 2%). continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed, especially for those given adriamycin, because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients.
soluble interleukin-2 receptors in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. the authors performed a retrospective analysis of serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sil-2r) levels in 72 patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) using an enzyme immunoassay. their objectives were to determine the value of serum sil-2r in estimating the tumor burden, and its predictive value in response to therapy and prognosis. the data showed that serum sil-2r levels in patients were significantly higher than that of healthy controls. the serum levels correlated with clinical staging and hence the tumor burden of npc. serial measurement of serum sil-2r provided an accurate prognostic index of the clinical response to radiotherapy in at least 89% of patients with raised serum sil-2r at initial diagnosis (defined as mean + 2 sd of healthy controls) and a reliable predictive index in all patients who subsequently developed distant metastasis despite initial radiotherapy. simultaneous measurement of epstein-barr virus-related serology (iga-vca and igg-ea) failed to demonstrate predictive value comparable with that of serum sil-2r. the authors conclude that monitoring serum sil-2r levels has clinical and prognostic significance in patients with npc and that prospective studies are indicated.
the functional anatomy of motor recovery after stroke in humans: a study with positron emission tomography. we have studied regional cerebral blood flow changes in 6 patients after their recovery from a first hemiplegic stroke. all had a single well-defined hemispheric lesion and at least a brachial monoparesis that subsequently recovered. each patient had 6 measurements of cerebral blood flow by positron tomography with 2 scans at rest, 2 during movement of fingers of the recovered hand, and 2 during movement of fingers of the normal hand. when the normal fingers were moved, regional cerebral blood flow increased significantly in contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in the ipsilateral cerebellar hemisphere. when the fingers of the recovered hand were moved, significant regional cerebral blood flow increases were observed in both contralateral and ipsilateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in both cerebellar hemispheres. other regions, namely, insula, inferior parietal, and premotor cortex, were also bilaterally activated with movement of the recovered hand. we have also demonstrated, by using a new technique of image analysis, different functional connections between the thalamic nuclei and specific cortical and cerebellar regions during these movements. our results suggest that ipsilateral motor pathways may play a role in the recovery of motor function after ischemic stroke.
ruptured mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with recurrence in the liver and colon 17 years later. a case report. a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary occurred in a 51-year-old woman and recurred as a large intrahepatic tumor mass as well as a small mass in the transverse colon 17 years after rupture, intraperitoneal spillage of tumor contents and subtotal surgical removal of the ovarian lesion and peritoneal implants. the patient was treated with a partial hepatectomy and a segmental transverse colectomy. the recurrent lesions, which contained histologically fully mature teratomatous elements only, were excised; the result was a complete cure. to our knowledge this is the first documented report on such a complication of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary.
evaluation of vigabatrin as an add-on drug in the management of severe epilepsy. the effects of the addition of vigabatrin, a new anti-epileptic drug, to the therapy of 128 patients with severe medically refractory epilepsy is reported. forty two (33%) of patients experienced side effects, which were predominantly neurotropic. in 28 (22%), the drug was withdrawn because of these side effects. the commonest side effects were drowsiness and behavioural change. the remaining 100 patients were followed for a mean of 30 weeks (range 12-75). forty one of these patients showed a marked improvement in seizure frequency (a 50% or more reduction when compared with the pre-trial period), and nine (7%) were rendered seizure free. apparent tolerance to the effects of the drug were noted in five patients. an exacerbation of seizures may occur if the drug is withdrawn too quickly. vigabatrin appears to be a promising new anti-epileptic drug.
the post-occlusive hyperemic response in patients with systemic sclerosis. we investigated post-ischemic hyperreactive cutaneous blood flow in patients with primary raynaud's phenomenon and raynaud's phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis (ssc). reactive hyperemia was measured over a locally warmed area of skin, using a laser doppler flowmeter, following 5 minutes of suprasystolic occlusion of blood flow. we found that patients with primary raynaud's phenomenon had normal post-ischemic blood flow compared with normal controls. in contrast, patients with ssc had reduced levels of baseline and peak blood flow compared with either the primary raynaud's phenomenon patients or the normal subjects. infusion of carbaprostacyclin, a potent prostacyclin analog vasodilator, did not increase blood flow in the ssc patients, nor did it restore the reactive hyperemic response. these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that patients with the nonvasoconstricted condition of ssc have fixed structural defects that limit cutaneous microvascular blood flow.
electrophysiologic characteristics of manifest and latent retrograde conduction in dogs. atrioventricular (av) nodal reentry requires intact retrograde ventriculoatrial (va) conduction. the purpose of this study was to assess the contribution of various pacing and pharmacologic techniques to uncover va conduction during apparent unidirectional va block, and to evaluate the role of several biologic and electrophysiologic factors in concealment of retrograde conduction. forty healthy dogs underwent catheter-electrophysiologic studies of av and va conduction. group i (20 animals) had intact va conduction. group ii (six animals) had va dissociation with ventricular pacing initiated during sinus rhythm, but the presence of va conduction was confirmed by isoproterenol infusion or by premature ventricular stimulation. in group iii (14 animals), the above techniques failed to uncover va conduction. eight of 14 group iii animals underwent thoracotomy and crushing or freezing of the sinoatrial (sa) node. ventricular pacing initiated during sinus standstill was associated with 1:1 va conduction in each experiment. va conduction time and retrograde wenckebach cycle length, both in the baseline state and during isoproterenol infusion, were significantly longer in the eight animals in group iii than in those in group i. age, gender, weight, breed, sinus cycle length, and anterograde av conduction properties were not significantly different between groups i, ii, and iii. the data suggest that (1) in normal dogs, complete unidirectional va block probably does not exist; (2) in the presence of anterograde input to the av node, even sophisticated pacing and pharmacologic maneuvers may fail to uncover the presence of va conduction; (3) although anterograde input is essential for concealment of va conduction, the phenomenon is more closely associated with depressed retrograde than with anterograde av nodal characteristics.
clinical-computed tomographic correlations of lacunar infarction in the stroke data bank. lacunar stroke was diagnosed in 337 (26%) of the 1,273 patients with cerebral infarction among the 1,805 total in the stroke data bank. we analyzed the 316 patients with classic lacunar syndromes. among these, 181 (57%) had pure motor hemiparesis, 63 (20%) sensorimotor syndrome, 33 (10%) ataxic hemiparesis, 21 (7%) pure sensory syndrome, and 18 (6%) dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome. no striking differences were found among the risk factors for the lacunar subtypes, but differences were found between lacunar stroke as a group and other types of infarcts. compared to 113 patients with large-vessel atherosclerotic infarction, those with lacunar stroke had fewer previous transient ischemic attacks and strokes. compared to 246 with cardioembolic infarction, patients with lacunar stroke more frequently had hypertension and diabetes and less frequently had cardiac disease. we found a lesion in 35% of the lacunar stroke patients' computed tomograms, with most lesions located in the internal capsule and corona radiata. the mean infarct volume was greater in patients with pure motor hemiparesis or sensorimotor syndrome than in those with the other lacunar stroke subtypes. in patients with pure motor hemiparesis and infarcts in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, there was a correlation between lesion volume and hemiparesis severity except for the few whose infarct involved the lowest portion of the internal capsule; in these patients severe deficits occurred regardless of lesion volume. taken together, the computed tomographic correlations with the syndromes of hemiparesis showed only slight support for the classical view of a homunculus in the internal capsule.
exclusion of the na(+)-h+ antiporter as a candidate gene in human essential hypertension. the primary abnormalities that contribute to the pathogenesis of human essential hypertension are unknown. the known genetic contribution to this disorder suggests the possible use of genetic linkage analysis to test whether specific candidate genes contribute to the pathogenesis of either essential hypertension or intermediate phenotypes. among such phenotypes, elevated erythrocyte na(+)-li+ countertransport (slc) is the best known, supporting major gene inheritance by pedigree analysis. striking similarities between slc and na(+)-h+ exchange suggest that mutations at the na(+)-h+ antiporter gene locus (apnh) might result in elevated slc and contribute to the subsequent pathogenesis of hypertension. we have tested these hypotheses by genetic linkage analysis, with apnh as a candidate gene. by determining genotypes at apnh and flanking loci in pedigrees that support major gene segregation of elevated slc, we have excluded linkage of apnh and the major slc locus with a lod score of -5.91, an odds ratio of almost 1,000,000:1 against linkage. in the analysis of 93 hypertensive sibling pairs, we have further demonstrated that apnh explains none of the variance in slc in hypertensive individuals (r2 = 6 x 10(-7), p greater than 0.99). finally, we have directly tested for linkage of apnh to genes predisposing toward hypertension by linkage in hypertensive sibling pairs. mean allele sharing at apnh is not greater than expected from random assortment in hypertensive siblings (0.92 versus 1.0, p greater than 0.80), and the upper 95% confidence limit of this value (1.04) indicates that mutations at apnh rarely if ever contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension in this population.
assay of hepatitis b virus dna by polymerase chain reaction and its relationship to pre-s- and s-encoded viral surface antigens. the polymerase chain reaction was evaluated as a diagnostic tool in 72 chronic hepatitis b virus carriers. hepatitis b virus dna was detectable in the serum of hbsag-positive virus carriers using aliquots as small as 100 al. the detection limit for cloned hepatitis b virus dna was 100 ag. primer pairs for different regions of the hbv genome resulted in different sensitivity. detection of the amplified hepatitis b virus dna by southern blotting and subsequent scintillation counting or densitometry allowed a semiquantitative assay. using several primer pairs in parallel for optimal detection, all hbeag-positive hbsag carriers, 80% of hbe antibody-positive symptomatic hbsag carriers and 57% of asymptomatic hbe antibody-positive hbsag carriers were found to have hepatitis b virus dna in the serum. during antiviral therapy hepatitis b virus dna disappeared by the polymerase chain reaction assay in patients who became hbeag negative, but polymerase chain reaction detected a relapse earlier than did the conventional dot blot. pre-s antigens were assayed in serum and liver samples from most chronic carriers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and/or immunoblot. although most viremic carriers were strongly positive for pre-s1 and pre-s2 antigens, some hepatitis b virus dna-positive hbsag carriers did not have detectable pre-s antigens, and vice versa. our data show that assay of hepatitis b virus dna in the serum by polymerase chain reaction is by far more proficient than by dot blot and that it cannot be replaced by serological assays of hbeag or pre-s antigen.
risk factors for gestational diabetes in black population. in a long-term longitudinal study of gestational diabetes mellitus in black women, risk factors that were identified were age, obesity, a family history of diabetes, and the presence of hypertension. poor predictors were a history of a previous large-for-date infant, parity, and age at first pregnancy. the prevalence of smooth muscle and nuclear autoantibodies was higher in gestational diabetic subjects. gestational diabetic subjects who required insulin for glycemic control were more obese, had a lower frequency of the bf-f phenotype and a higher frequency of the bf-f1 phenotype, and had a lower frequency of the type 2 allele at the polymorphic locus adjacent to the insulin gene. restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms flanking the insulin and apolipoprotein a-i and c-iii genes, although not associated with gestational diabetes mellitus, may be associated with hyperlipidemia and subsequent atherosclerosis.
pathogenesis and therapy of peptic ulcer disease. the epithelial cells of the stomach and duodenum are normally protected from the damaging effects of acid and pepsin by a balancing mechanism of mucosal resistance. if an imbalance occurs, peptic ulcer may result. traditional teaching has emphasized the importance of acid (and pepsin) as the cause of this imbalance; however, it is clear that acid and pepsin are not the only important factors in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer. more recent investigative efforts have been directed at what constitutes mucosal resistance and how it can be disrupted to produce, in the presence of gastric acid, a peptic ulcer. depletion of endogenous prostaglandins and helicobacter pylori gastritis have emerged as prominent theories. as evidence exists both to support and refute these theories in humans, any definitive conclusions cannot be made at this time. the acute management of peptic ulcer disease is directed at relieving pain, accelerating ulcer healing, and preventing complications. peptic ulcers can be healed with antisecretory agents (i.e., h2-receptor antagonists, omeprazole), antacids, prostaglandins, and sucralfate. because they are effective, safe, and convenient, the h2-receptor antagonists are the most widely used agents for the management of peptic ulcer disease. because the h2-receptor antagonist agents are equally effective in their indicated uses and are equally safe based on scientifically valid data, selection should be based primarily on cost. omeprazole is the newest antisecretory agent: a single morning dose of 20 mg suppresses acid secretion for 24 h. the agent offers little advantage over h2-receptor antagonists for the majority of patients with peptic ulcer.
carotid body tumors. the surgical management of carotid body tumors requires identification and preservation of neural and vascular structures without compromising resection of the neoplasm. fifteen patients were examined and treated for carotid body tumors at the cleveland (ohio) clinic foundation from 1979 through 1987. the benchmark of diagnosis is bilateral carotid angiography. when neural structures are free of tumor, meticulous dissection facilitates their preservation. large tumor size increases risk for arterial resection necessitating reconstruction. the use of a vascular shunt minimizes the risk of cerebral ischemia. postoperative intravenous digital subtraction angiography allows for evaluation of arterial repair. a retrospective review of 15 carotid body tumor resections performed in 14 patients revealed no evidence of tumor recurrence, no mortality associated with surgical intervention, no postoperative cerebrovascular accident, and limited morbidity associated with unavoidable sacrifice of neural elements.
glaucoma triple procedures: efficacy of intraocular pressure control and visual outcome. sixty-three glaucoma triple surgeries [combined trabeculectomy, extracapsular cataract extraction (ecce), and posterior-chamber intraocular lens (pc-iol) implantation] were reviewed. intraocular pressure (iop) was controlled satisfactorily in all cases; 25% required additional glaucoma therapy but fewer glaucoma medications. eighty-six percent achieved 6/12 or better visual acuity. postoperative iop and visual acuity results were similar to those achieved by trabeculectomy or ecce/pc-iol, respectively. cumulative years of preoperative glaucoma therapy had an adverse effect on postoperative iop control.
fibrillation potential amplitude and muscle atrophy following peripheral nerve injury. maximum peak-to-peak fibrillation potential amplitude was measured in 69 subjects between 7 days and 10 1/2 years post complete or partial peripheral nerve injury. mean amplitude during the first 2 months was 612 muv; third and fourth months 512 muv, fifth and sixth months 320 muv. after the first year, no population of fibrillation potentials greater than 100 muv was recorded. the sciatic nerve was sectioned in 13 guinea pigs and animals studied up to 17 weeks. fibrillation potential amplitude in gastrocnemius muscles declined paralleling that in humans. by the end of the study, type i fibers had lost almost half of their initial diameter and type ii fibers had atrophied more than twice this amount. fibrillation potential amplitude may be useful in estimating the time post nerve injury and appears to correlate with the surface area and fiber diameter of a type i muscle fiber.
subclinical vulvar papillomavirus infection. eighty-eight cases of subclinical human papillomavirus (hpv) vulvar infection were detected in a consecutive colposcopic series of 968 women. three patterns of acetowhite lesions had a 72% predictive value (88/122) for histologically assessed hpv. the prevalence of subclinical vulvar hpv in self-referred patients was 7.9% (73/918); it was 9% (88/968) in the overall series and significantly higher in younger patients (age less than 25 years: 21/106, or 19.8%) or in those with cervical hpv or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) (40/100, or 40%). routine inspection of the vulva after acetic acid lavage in association with a papanicolaou test might help identify papanicolaou-test-negative patients at high risk of developing cervical hpv or cin. treatment with beta-interferon (2,000,000 iu daily intramuscularly for 10 days) was given to 30 consecutive patients, but the results were poor: regression was observed in only 2 cases.
vesicular changes in the myopathies of aids. ultrastructural observations and their relationship to zidovudine treatment. six patients with aids and aids related complex (arc) who developed neuromuscular symptoms associated with vesicular changes in muscle fibres are reported. two patients in the advanced stages of aids, who did not receive zidovudine, developed proximal limb weakness and wasting: both had a necrotising myopathy with an unusual segmental vesicular change of myofibres. there were numerous vesicles 0.1 to 2 microns in diameter produced by dilatations of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in fibres depleted of myofibrils. four patients developed a myopathy while receiving zidovudine for aids. one of these had an inflammatory myopathy which showed the development of vesicular change due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria. the three other patients with arc developed muscle pains or weakness and elevated serum ck while on zidovudine. these patients also showed vesicular changes due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria associated with disruption of sarcomeres and the presence of cytoplasmic bodies. the muscular symptoms resolved when ziduvodine was stopped and repeat biopsy in one case revealed no abnormalities.
identification of the rate-dependent functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node in simulated atrial fibrillation. we continuously observed successive pairs of r-r intervals during atrial fibrillation and hypothesized that the shortest r-r interval for a given preceding r-r interval in a pair represents the functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node at that preceding interval. to test this hypothesis we simulated atrial fibrillation in 28 isolated cross-perfused canine hearts and obtained an r-r interval scatterplot by plotting the r-r intervals as a function of the immediately preceding r-r interval. this scatterplot enabled us to detect a series of the shortest r-r intervals for a wide range of preceding r-r intervals, and this allowed us to estimate the rate-dependent functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node in simulated atrial fibrillation. the estimated functional refractory periods correlated well with those measured by the conventional method (r = 0.93). we conclude that the proposed method makes it possible to estimate the rate-dependent functional refractory periods of the atrioventricular node in atrial fibrillation.
a prospective evaluation of the effectiveness of temporomandibular joint arthroscopy. this is a prospective study to evaluate therapeutic arthroscopy for internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint (tmj). fifty-nine patients with 76 abnormal joints were evaluated preoperatively for pain, noise, maximal incisal opening (mio), and deviation on opening. preoperative and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans were obtained for 29 joints. patients were treated by superior joint arthroscopy, lysis of adhesions, lavage, and steroid injection, along with preoperative and postoperative splint and physiotherapy. pain, noise, and motion were evaluated at three time periods: 1) early (10 to 30 days); 2) intermediate (1 to 6 months); and 3) late (greater than 6 months). at early, intermediate, and late follow-up, increase in mio was statistically significant (p less than .05). noise did not return in the majority of patients. disc position, evaluated by mri, did not appear to change in 25 of 29 joints and did not correlate with clinical outcome. the results of this study indicate that tmj arthroscopy is effective in reducing pain and increasing motion in patients with tmj internal derangement.
crypt cell proliferation and hla-dr expression in pelvic ileal pouches. to investigate the nature of the morphological changes that occur in ileal pouches, 26 biopsy specimens from patients with functioning ileo-anal pouches (eight with pouchitis) were studied. normal ileum (n = 10) was used as a control. mucosal morphometry (using linear measurements), crypt cell proliferation (ccp) (using the monoclonal antibody ki67), and epithelial hla-dr expression (monoclonal antibody cr3/43) were assessed. ccp (expressed as the percentage of ki67 positive nuclei for each crypt) was significantly higher in pouches with pouchitis, compared with those without, and in pouches without pouchitis compared with normal ileum. ccp values in some pouches without pouchitis approached values found in those with pouchitis. ccp was related inversely to villous height and an index of villous atrophy (vh/tmt), and directly to crypt depth. in the presence of pouchitis there was intense epithelial hla-dr expression that extended into the crypts. in some pouches with high ccp values, but without clinically important inflammation, surface epithelial hla-dr expression was weak and patchy. it is concluded that villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia in ileal pouches are associated with high ccp values. these may be increased even in the absence of active inflammation, and this increase may occur as a response to the new luminal environment.
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infections in gambian children: ii. acute lower respiratory tract infection in children ages one to nine years presenting at the hospital. seventy-four children ages 1 to 9 years hospitalized because of severe pneumonia were investigated using blood cultures, lung aspirates, nasopharyngeal aspirates, serology and antigen detection procedures. a bacterial infection was identified in 57 (77%), a viral infection was seen in 25 (34%) and 18 (24%) had mixed viral-bacterial infections. the bacterial pathogens most frequently identified were streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae found in 61 and 15% of patients, respectively. the viral pathogen most frequently recovered was respiratory syncytial virus (12%). evidence of chlamydia pneumoniae strain twar and mycoplasma pneumoniae infection was found in 12 and 4% of cases, respectively. overall a potential pathogen was identified in 60 (81%) children, with evidence of polymicrobial infection in 30 cases (40.5%). the study provides information on the relative role of different infectious agents in the etiology of severe pneumonia in children in a developing country.
radiology for cochlear implants. one fifth of patients selected for cochlear implants have such bony irregularities in the cochlear duct that full insertion of a multichannel electrode array is impossible. three cases of cochlear deafness are presented where pre- and post-operative radiology played an important part in the management. standard ct at 2 mm cuts is compared with ultra high resolution ct at 1 mm cuts. the pitfall of poor definition is that the inexperienced surgeon may find himself unexpectedly drilling out an obliterated cochlear duct. sections 30 degrees caudal to reid's infra orbito-meatal base line at 1 mm intervals give maximum information for minimum radiation. plain films show the placement of individual platinum electrode contacts in relation to the spiral 'frequency map' of the cochlea. this is vital information for the audiologist who has to route specific frequencies to specific sites within the ear for a good hearing result.
hypertension and diabetes in blacks. this article summarizes the current state of knowledge on the interrelationship between non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, obesity, insulin resistance, and hypertension in our attempt to explore the pathophysiology of the high incidence of diabetes and hypertension in the black population in the united states. a central role for hyperinsulinemia is proposed, and questions are raised that are suitable for investigative clinical trials.
defective oral tolerance promotes nephritogenesis in experimental iga nephropathy induced by oral immunization. oral tolerance, an important feature of the mucosal immune system, appears to protect against immune-mediated disease by blunting production of systemic igg and igm antibody directed toward immunogens chronically present at mucosal surfaces. in this study, we explored the role of oral tolerance and mucosal immunoregulation in an experimental model of iga nephropathy (igan), an important form of nephritis in humans. cyclophosphamide and estradiol were used to inhibit the expression of oral tolerance, which otherwise develops after chronic oral presentation of ag. balb/c mice given drinking water containing 0.1% bovine gamma globulin (bgg) continuously for 14 wk were randomly assigned to groups given either 2 mg of cyclophosphamide i.p., 2 mg of estradiol s.c. or both drugs. groups of control mice received neither bgg nor drugs. in three separate experiments, a low percentage of saline-treated orally immunized mice had microscopic hematuria (0 to 20%), as did nonimmunized controls (0 to 20%). however, 58 to 83% of mice given estradiol and/or cyclophosphamide at appropriate times developed significant hematuria. if drugs were given at suboptimal times, only 25 to 56% of mice developed hematuria. drug-treated immunized mice also had more serum igg and igm anti-bgg antibodies than control and saline groups. immunofluorescence showed significantly more glomerular deposits of igg, igm, and c3 in drug-treated immunized mice compared to saline-treated immunized and normal untreated control mice. hematuria and glomerular deposits of igg, igm, and c3 paralleled serum igg and igm antibody. all immunized mice showed significant mesangial iga and bgg deposits and there were no differences in such deposits between saline- and drug-treated immunized mice. we suggest that blunting of oral tolerance with promotion of systemic igg and igm antibody production leads to nephritis in chronically orally immunized mice and that glomerular immune complexes containing igg and/or igm promote complement deposition and hematuria in igan. analogous defects in oral (or more generally mucosal) tolerance could play a role in the genesis of symptomatic human igan.
the use of the jarvik-7 total artificial heart and the symbion ventricular assist device as a bridge to transplantation. the proliferation of transplantation programs has not been paralleled by a similar increase in the availability of organ donors. between 1984 and 1987, 104 orthotopic heart transplantations were performed at loyola university medical center. during the same period, 25 patients died while awaiting a donor organ. to reduce the mortality, we began using the total artificial heart (tah) and a ventricular assist device (vad) as a bridge to transplantation in 1988. of 29 patients who underwent transplantation, 15 patients required a tah and three patients required a vad as a bridge. the underlying heart conditions were ischemic cardiomyopathy (11 patients), dilated cardiomyopathy (5 patients), giant cell myocarditis (1 patient), and allograft failure (1 patient). the average duration of mechanical support was 10 days (range, 1 to 35 days). of the 17 patients who successfully underwent transplantation, 1 patient died at 17 days because of acute rejection of the transplanted heart, and another patient died at 14 days because of a cerebral vascular event. fifteen patients (83%) were long-term survivors. nine patients required reoperation for bleeding. while the mechanical device was in place, the activated clotting time was maintained between 170 and 200 seconds with heparin. dipyridamole was given. we conclude that the tah and vad are excellent mechanical bridges to transplantation.
hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis. a case is presented of 14 year old female with hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis. evidence of hypothalamic obesity included 1) acute hyperphagia and weight gain, 2) neuroradiology showed hydrocephalus with focal enlargement of the third ventricle, 3) endocrinological studies revealed hyperinsulinaemia and impaired growth hormone (gh) response to arginine, but normal gh response to growth hormone-releasing factor (grf) and 4) torkildsen's ventriculo-cisternal shunting resulted in improvement in hyperphagia and obesity.
lung cancer histology in jews and arabs in israel, 1962-1982. lung cancer rates in israel are lower than in western countries, not explainable by smoking habits. because of the different relations of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma to smoking it was of interest to study the histologic distribution in israel. a total of 7,871 histologically confirmed lung cancer cases were studied in the period 1962-1982. squamous cell carcinoma was the leading tumor type in jewish men and adenocarcinoma in jewish women. rates of both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma increased throughout the period in both jewish men and women, but the increase in adenocarcinoma was more pronounced in the last study period than that in squamous cell carcinoma. in 1977-1982 the rate ratio of squamous cell carcinoma to adenocarcinoma among jewish men was 1.7. in arab men it was 2.9, and in jewish women 0.57. the kreyberg i/ii ratio among jewish men was about 2.7 with no clear trend throughout the study period, and among arab men this gradually decreased from 8.1 to 3.5. jewish women had a constant kreyberg i/ii ratio of about 1 through the whole study period, but the ratio in arab women was significantly higher than 1, with a mean overall ratio of 3.2. jews and arabs in israel are different from each other in their patterns of lung cancer histology and are different to some extent from other populations in the western world.
heart disease in asians and pacific-islanders, hispanics, and native americans. heart disease is the leading cause of death for asian-americans and pacific-islanders, hispanic-americans, and native americans. generally, heart disease death rates are lower in these population groups than in caucasians, with the notable exception of native americans under the age of 35. of particular interest are data for southwestern us native americans and mexican-americans, which indicate low chd prevalence rates despite high rates of obesity, diabetes mellitus, increasing hypertension, and low socioeconomic status. much more research is needed to explain these and other observations. intervention in those risk factors already identified is necessary, particularly in prevention of obesity and diabetes.
fine-needle aspiration cytology and flow cytometry of intracystic papillary carcinoma of breast to define criteria for cytologic diagnosis of intracystic papillary carcinoma (icpc), the authors retrospectively reviewed the fine-needle aspiration (fna) cytologic specimens of eight cases of histologically proven icpc of breast. the patients were five black and three white women, 56-87 years of age. the fna specimen was cyst fluid in four cases (bloody in three, clear in one). all the aspirates showed cellular smears with small and large clusters of cells with papillary and/or cribriform configurations and numerous single epithelial cells. the cells were cuboidal to columnar with minimal atypia. icpc was suggested by fna in each case, and all the patients underwent surgical excision or mastectomy. flow cytometry, performed on fresh fna specimen in one case and on paraffin-embedded surgical tissue in all eight cases, showed seven tumors to be aneuploid and one to be diploid. the authors contend that icpcs of breast have distinct cytomorphologic features that can be recognized by fna. because icpc may present in cyst fluid, either bloody or clear, all breast cyst fluids from postmenopausal women should be examined cytologically. flow cytometric demonstration of an aneuploid population may assist in confirming malignancy in this lesion.
host genetic influences on fetal susceptibility to murine cytomegalovirus after maternal or fetal infection. genetically determined resistance to murine cytomegalovirus is observed in adult mice and is mediated in part by genes of the h-2 complex, with the h-2k haplotype conferring resistance. this model was used to examine the effect of primary maternal infection on fetal outcome. the severity of fetal growth retardation and death after primary maternal infection on day 8 of pregnancy was found to be genetically determined. fetal viability and weight were significantly lower in infected balb/c mothers (h-2d) than in cba(h-2k) and balb.k(h-2k) mothers. however, fetal infection was not detected, suggesting that the resistance mechanisms operate at the level of the mother or placenta. by directly inoculating fetuses in utero, it was shown that genetic factors in the fetus can influence the level of fetal infection and viability. these results point to the possibility that host genetic factors may modulate maternal and fetal cytomegalovirus infections in humans.
factors associated with hemorrhage in cesarean deliveries. a case-control study was performed to study risk factors for hemorrhage in cesarean deliveries. hemorrhage was defined by a pre- to post-delivery hematocrit decrease of 10 points or more or by the need for red-cell transfusion. patients with antenatal bleeding were excluded. among 3052 cesarean deliveries, hemorrhage occurred in 196 cases (6.4%). three controls were matched to each case and multiple logistic regression was used to control for covariance among predictor variables. factors having a significant association with hemorrhage were: general anesthesia (adjusted odds ratio 2.94), amnionitis (odds ratio 2.69), preeclampsia (2.18), protracted active phase of labor (2.40), second-stage arrest (1.90), and hispanic ethnicity (1.82). after adjustment for these variables, a classic uterine incision had a small but significant association (odds ratio 1.06) with hemorrhage. previous cesarean, parity, gestational age, and several other factors had no association with hemorrhage. these data allow one to anticipate hemorrhage in patients at risk and may be useful in planning appropriate use of blood bank resources, including antepartum autologous blood donation.
clinical experience with the medtronic-hall valve prosthesis. medtronic-hall valves were implanted during 204 procedures performed between 1982 and 1988. mean population age was 54.4 years; 96% of patients were in new york heart association functional class iii or greater. emergency operations constituted 16% of the procedures. rheumatic heart disease was the single most common indication for valve replacement. in 18% of patients, operation was performed to replace a previous prosthetic valve. the mean follow-up was 3.2 years. overall operative mortality was 10.3%, the highest mortality being for double-valve replacements (24%). valve-related mortality, by position, was 5.3% for aortic valves, 6.0% for mitral valves, and 4.0% for multiple-valve replacements. actuarial 5-year freedom from events were: survival, 68%; thromboembolism, 90%; prosthetic valve endocarditis, 98%; paravalvular leak, 95%; and reoperation, 92%. complications with the highest mortality were thromboembolism (36%) and endocarditis (33%). the complication rates in this series are high but the patients were more severely ill than in other reports, and operative survivors experienced a considerable improvement in new york heart association functional class.
role of beta-adrenergic blockers after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) cannot currently be prevented. different medical regimens have been largely unsuccessful. experimental studies suggest roles for beta-adrenergic blockers and calcium antagonists. controlled clinical studies have failed to show any decrease in restenosis rate for calcium antagonists. corresponding studies for beta blockers are lacking. this study evaluates 541 consecutive ptca procedures, 455 (86%) in patients treated with beta blockers after ptca (76% metoprolol, 14% atenolol, 4% sotalol, 6% others) and 86 (14%) in patients without beta blockers. angiographic success was achieved in 483 of 620 lesions (78%), and was not significantly different with or without beta blockers (79 vs 73%, p greater than 0.05). the procedure success rate and the complication rates (myocardial infarction, emergency coronary artery bypass grafting, death) did not differ with or without beta blockers (p greater than 0.05). follow-up angiograms for 426 of the 483 successfully dilated lesions (88%) revealed that a total of 155 stenoses had recurred (36%). the restenosis rate was not significantly different with (368) or without (58) beta blockers (36 vs 38%, p greater than 0.05). for beta blockers with calcium antagonists (84% nifedipine, 13% diltiazem, 2% verapamil, 1% others), the restenosis rate was 97 of 250 (39%) vs 36 of 118 (31%) (p greater than 0.05). this retrospective study indicates that treatment with beta-adrenergic blockers after ptca, alone or in combination with calcium antagonists, does not influence either the success rate or the restenosis rate and can be continued if indicated from an antiischemic viewpoint.
triggers of transient myocardial ischemia: circadian variation and relation to plaque rupture and coronary thrombosis in stable coronary artery disease. the phenomenon of transient myocardial ischemia is common in patients with stable coronary disease and appears to be due both to increases in myocardial demand and to episodic coronary vasoconstriction. the circadian variation of transient ischemic episodes closely parallels the circadian variation of acute coronary syndromes associated with plaque rupture, such as myocardial infarction and sudden death. these concordant temporal patterns of transient ischemia, myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death probably represent independent manifestations stemming from the consequences of increased sympathetic activity.
gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy: suggested guidelines for treatment twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention: 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed (five also undergoing choledochotomy) and one patient had a cholecystostomy. of these 23 patients, five were lithotripsy failures, five developed acute pancreatitis, one had acute cholecystitis, and one had cholangitis. one patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer. ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain, probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct. we suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy, i.e. five patients with pancreatitis, one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic. conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients. if, however, the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy, then resort to surgery may be necessary. we propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures.
neurovascular mechanisms and sodium balance in the pathogenesis of hypertension. physiological studies have clarified the role that the brain has in the interplay between salt balance and hypertension. neural mechanisms and endocrine secretions play a pivotal role in the adaptation of mammals to changes in the intake and excretion of sodium. maneuvers that alter the concentration of sodium in the plasma modify the sensitivity of baroreceptor reflexes and alter vascular reactivity. these changes may be mediated in part by the release of vasopressin. the research also suggests that the brain indirectly modulates the ability of the vascular endothelium to release vasoactive factors. collectively, these studies illustrate the multiple effects of the sodium ion on the peripheral neural and central endocrine mechanisms that participate in the regulation of arterial pressure.
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in dengue fever. twenty-six virologically and serologically confirmed dengue patients with signs of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding (13.1%) were studied during the 1987 outbreak in southern taiwan. within a 1-yr period from 1987 to 1988 in kaohsiung chang gung memorial hospital, there were 198 patients with dengue fever confirmed. viral isolation and serological studies indicated that type i dengue was the cause. there was no evidence of sequential secondary infection among them. the 26 patients were evaluated gastroduodenoscopically. most of the dengue patients who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding had gastric ulcers or duodenal ulcers; superficial and hemorrhagic gastritis are the other relevant endoscopic findings. thirteen patients (50%) had a past history of peptic ulcer symptoms, whereas the other 13 did not. dengue infection is a precipitating factor in inducing peptic ulcer bleeding because of hemostatic derangements. supportive therapy and blood transfusions alone were adequate treatment, except for one patient who required surgery due to massive bleeding of a duodenal ulcer. no mortality was observed in this study.
anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis. anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis. in six patients with constipation, three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea. one patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom. three patients had no anorectal symptoms. anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures, although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found. pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal. in four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve. two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation. it is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders. although anal sphincter function is reduced, fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group. the reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated, thus securing fecal continence.
vaginal mullerian cyst presenting as an anterior enterocele: a case report. a case is discussed of an extremely large vaginal mullerian cyst that presented as an anterior enterocele. sonographic and radiologic studies are described. the patient underwent operative excision of the cyst with reconstructive vaginoplasty.
effects of long-term treatment with metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide on plasma lipids and lipoproteins. in order to evaluate the effects of one-year antihypertensive treatment on plasma lipids and lipoproteins, 65 patients whose diastolic blood pressure was in the range 95-120 mmhg were randomly allocated to groups that received either hydrochlorothiazide or metoprolol, or both drugs when the response to one of them was insufficient to control blood pressure. blood pressure was effectively reduced in all groups. patients on hydrochlorothiazide showed a significant increase (p less than 0.01) in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) after 3 months of treatment. a significant increase in triglycerides was observed after 6 and 12 months, together with a decrease in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) after 12 months (p less than 0.05) of treatment in patients on metoprolol. in patients treated with both hydrochlorothiazide and metoprolol, total cholesterol increased after 3 (p less than 0.001) and 6 months (p less than 0.05), triglycerides increased after 6 (p less than 0.01) and 12 months (p less than 0.01), and ldl-c increased after 3 (p less than 0.05), 6 (p less than 0.001) and 12 months (p less than 0.01) of treatment, respectively. in 61% of the patients, three or more lipid parameters were affected during the study period. we conclude that long-term antihypertensive treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, metoprolol, and particularly with both drugs, can induce lipid effects that deserve recognition, because in some cases these might counteract the possible benefit of a reduction in blood pressure on the prevention of coronary heart disease.
subsite distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer in new zealand, 1974-1983. the purpose of this study was to examine changes in subsite distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer within different age groups. registration of colorectal cancer by the national cancer registry of new zealand approached 100 percent by 1974. the present study was based on 15,395 individuals aged 25 years and over and registered for colorectal cancer between 1974 and 1983. subsite distribution (right colon, left colon, rectum) for different age groups (25-49, 50-69, 70+ years) was significantly skewed, with an excess of right colonic cancer in individuals aged 25-49 years and 70+ years. this right colonic excess was accompanied by a relative reduction in left colonic cancer. age adjusted incidence rates for the periods 1974-78 and 1979-83 were compared and stratified by age group and subsite. incidence rates increased in all subsites in individuals aged 50+ years. this was particularly evident for right sided cancer in the elderly of both sexes. there was a marked reduction in the incidence of left colonic cancer and rectal cancer in individuals under 50 years. in contrast, the incidence of right colonic cancer remained relatively stable in young individuals. time trend studies indicate that the skewed subsite distribution of large bowel cancer in different age groups may increase with time and is probably due to varying etiological factors acting on different cohorts.
prognostic value of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with unstable angina who respond to medical treatment [published erratum appears in j am coll cardiol 1991 sep;18(3):889] although the prognostic value of thallium-201 imaging is well established, its ability to risk stratify patients who present with unstable angina is unclear. fifty-two consecutive patients admitted with unstable angina who responded to medical treatment and underwent stress thallium-201 imaging within 1 week of discharge were studied. patients were followed up for 39 +/- 11 months. cardiac events included cardiac death (n = 3), nonfatal myocardial infarction (n = 4) and admission for unstable angina or revascularization (n = 17). the ability of thallium-201 data (redistribution, fixed defects, normal) to predict cardiac events was compared with clinical data (age, gender, prior myocardial infarction, anginal syndrome, rest and stress electrocardiogram) and cardiac catheterization data using logistic regression. thallium-201 redistribution was the only significant predictor of cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05). the number of myocardial segments with thallium-201 redistribution (p less than 0.0005) and a history of prior myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05) were the only significant predictors of all cardiac events. cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction occurred more frequently in patients with thallium-201 redistribution (6 [26%] of 23) than in those without redistribution (1 [3%] of 29, p less than 0.05). similarly, total cardiac events developed more frequently in patients with thallium-201 redistribution (p less than 0.001). stress thallium-201 imaging has important prognostic value in patients admitted with unstable angina who respond to medical therapy and can identify subgroups at high versus low risk for future cardiac events.
type ii oestrogen binding sites in human colorectal carcinoma. seven cases of colorectal adenocarcinomas were investigated for the presence of oestrogen receptors and progesterone receptors. the tumours specifically bound oestradiol. this binding almost exclusively resulted from the presence of high numbers of type ii oestrogen binding sites. oestrogen receptors were absent or present at very low concentrations. immunohistochemical investigation of nuclear oestrogen receptors gave negative results. this indicates that antioestrogen receptor antibodies recognise oestrogen receptors but not type ii oestrogen binding sites. the presence of specific type ii oestrogen binding sites and progesterone binding offers further evidence for a potential role for these steroids and their receptors in colorectal carcinoma.
candidacidal activity of crohn's disease neutrophils. the ability of normal and crohn's disease neutrophils to kill candida albicans has been studied using neutrophils isolated from peripheral blood and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at 5 x 10(6) cells per ml. c albicans was grown to a stationary phase in broth culture and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at 10(7) organisms/ml. neutrophils and candida were then incubated together at 37 degrees c in a shaking water bath in the presence of fresh serum. at 30 and 60 minutes samples were withdrawn, neutrophils lysed, and candida survival assessed by colony counting. results were compared with control suspensions of candida incubated with serum alone. after 30 and 60 minutes in the presence of autologous serum normal neutrophils had killed significantly more candida than crohn's disease neutrophils (mean (sd) 61.0 (16.7)% v 40.5 (16.2)% at 30 minutes, p less than 0.0001; 83.2 (7)% v 70.8) 16)% at 60 minutes, p less than 0.005). the results did not alter significantly when normal neutrophils were incubated with candida in the presence of crohn's disease serum instead of normal serum. when crohn's disease neutrophils were incubated with candida in the presence of normal serum instead of autologous serum there was some improvement in candidacidal ability at 30 minutes (48.9 (20.6)% v 40.5 (16.2)%, p less than 0.03) but not at 60 minutes. phagocytosis, measured using a radiometric assay, was normal. neutrophils from patients with crohn's disease have an impaired ability to kill this granuloma provoking organism. it is not due to serum inhibitors or defective phagocytosis.
extrahepatic biliary obstruction by lymphoma. extrinsic compression of the common bile duct by enlarged lymph nodes is an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice. we describe two patients with such a manifestation of lymphoma and the use of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in distinguishing this rare complication from other causes of jaundice in lymphoma. patients may have rapid resolution of both symptoms and biochemical abnormalities by nonoperative biliary bypass combined with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. lymphomatous obstruction should be considered a cause of potentially treatable jaundice in patients with known lymphoma; endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be valuable as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool.
relationship of transfusion and infectious complications after gastric carcinoma operations. to determine the effect of transfusion on the incidence of postoperative infection, a retrospective cohort study of 196 patients who underwent surgery for gastric carcinoma in the period from 1985 through 1989 was carried out. seventy-one patients (36.2%) developed postoperative septic complications; they had received an average of 4.2 blood units, as compared with 2.7 units received by patients not affected (p less than 0.0053). the hypothesis of dose-response relationship is supported by the mantel-haenszel test, as applied to the overall results (p less than 0.01) and the results grouped by duration of operation (p less than 0.02). furthermore, logistic regression analysis shows transfusion to be an independent risk factor in the incidence of infection (p less than 0.01), as are antibiotic prophylaxis (p less than 0.015), urinary tract catheterization (p less than 0.002), and the duration of surgery (p less than 0.027). this significance is attained after adjustment for age, gender, period of evolution of symptoms; preoperative infection(s), number of white cells, hemoglobin level and total proteins on diagnosis, location of tumor, tumor, nodes, and metastasis staging, operative technique, drainage of the area of operation, enteral nutrition, and the histologic studies and macroscopic appearance of the tumor. this study is further evidence that transfusion may cause an increased incidence of postoperative infection.
time course of improvement in ventricular function after ablation of incessant automatic atrial tachycardia. a patient with dilated cardiomyopathy and supraventricular tachycardia presumed to be of sinus origin was referred for cardiac transplantation. the extreme rate of the tachycardia during exercise, profound fluctuations in heart rate, and the presence of an abnormal p wave axis suggested the diagnosis of incessant ectopic atrial tachycardia rather than compensatory sinus tachycardia. electrophysiologic study with endocardial activation sequence mapping confirmed the diagnosis of an ectopic left atrial automatic tachycardia, after which surgical cryoablation of the left atrial focus was carried out successfully and sinus rhythm was restored. serial radionuclide angiocardiograms obtained before and after surgery demonstrated a very rapid recovery of left ventricular function to nearly normal within the first month after surgery, followed by further improvement to normal over the next several months. the diagnosis of tachycardia-related cardiomyopathy should be seriously considered in any patient with apparently end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy and persistent resting tachycardia.
quantification of biomedical findings of chronic pain patients: development of an index of pathology. difficulties in assessing and quantifying the biomedical signs and symptoms that may be related to patients' reports of pain are well recognized. although there appears to be some consensus among physicians as to the potential utility of examination and diagnostic tests frequently used to evaluate chronic pain patients, little attention has been paid to the reliability of interpreting the results of these procedures. moreover, the integration of biomedical findings to form a general index of pathology associated with chronic pain has been a difficult problem to solve because not all biomedical procedures used to evaluate pain patients are necessarily relevant or indicated for a specific patient. two studies are presented that were designed to evaluate the reliability of 23 biomedical procedures commonly used to evaluate chronic pain patients and to determine if findings on these procedures can effectively be combined to form a reliable index of physical pathology. the results of study 1 suggest that 17 of the 23 procedures can be applied in clinical setting with acceptable levels of reliability. study 2 provides evidence that an innovative weighted scoring approach, based on current medical consensus, can be used to produce a reliable, general index of pathology that is independent of the number of procedures used to evaluate patients. the utility of this quantification approach to biomedical findings for clinical and research purposes is discussed.
microvascular pedal bypass for salvage of the severely ischemic limb bypass to the pedal arteries was performed with use of the operating microscope and standard microsurgical technique in 37 patients with severe, chronic ischemia of a lower extremity. twenty-one patients (57%) had three or more cardiovascular risk factors, and 22 (59%) had diabetes. preoperative arteriography identified a pedal artery suitable for bypass in all but one patient. the greater or lesser saphenous vein was used in all patients, most frequently as a nonreversed, translocated vein graft. an arm vein was used as part of a composite graft in only one patient. no early deaths occurred, and only one patient had a perioperative myocardial infarction. although five grafts occluded within 30 days, four were successfully revised, and 36 patients had a patent graft at the time of dismissal from the hospital. at 1 year, the primary graft patency rate (patency without revision) was 60.8%, and the secondary patency rate was 68.8%. one early and six late amputations were performed; the cumulative 1-year limb salvage rate was 82.4%. grafts with an intraoperative flow rate of 50 ml/min or more had a better patency rate than those with a lower flow rate. the presence of diabetes did not adversely affect long-term patency. of the 34 patients who were alive at the time of this report, 27 (79%) had a functional foot that allowed ambulation, had no rest pain, and had no substantial loss of tissue. pedal bypass should be considered for critical, chronic ischemia, even if the patient has an increased surgical risk and advanced distal atherosclerotic disease.
argon versus krypton panretinal photocoagulation side effects on the anterior segment. the modification of corneal sensitivity, accommodation, pupillary diameter and endothelial cell density after argon versus krypton panretinal photocoagulation were studied prospectively in 88 eyes of 64 diabetic patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy, randomized for one of the two laser treatments. in both groups a marked internal ophthalmoplegia and reduction of corneal sensitivity occurred after laser photocoagulation. at no time, 2, 90 and 180 days after prp, were these parameters significantly different. endothelial cell loss was non significantly greater in the krypton group. the results indicated that the side effects commonly observed on the anterior segment after prp are comparable using argon or krypton lasers.
cytologic features of poorly differentiated 'insular' carcinoma of the thyroid, as revealed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. the authors report on the cytologic features of six cases of poorly differentiated "insular" carcinoma (ic) of the thyroid, a recently described variety of thyroid tumor intermediate between well-differentiated and anaplastic neoplasms. it is characterized by trabecular and/or alveolar growth patterns, merging with follicular areas, and by the absence of pleomorphism in the tumor cells. fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) materials (both smears and cell-block preparations) from six patients were reviewed after the diagnosis of ic was confirmed on the surgical specimen. the following cytologic features were consistently found: high cellularity and necrotic background; low grade of atypia; trabeculae and/or clusters, possibly associated with microfollicles, of cells with poorly defined cytoplasm; and cytoplasmic vacuoles containing thyroglobulin. nuclear inclusions and grooving of the nuclear surface were additional features. preoperative diagnosis suggestive of ic might be of value for planning surgical treatment and subsequent therapy.
the influence of calcium alginate haemostatic swabs upon operative blood loss in adenotonsillectomy. although adenotonsillectomy is regarded as a minor procedure, it has been shown that 18% of patients may experience an operative blood loss of 10-20% of the total blood volume. the aim of this study was to determine whether calcium alginate haemostatic swabs reduce operative blood loss in adenotonsillectomy. seventy-two patients (ages 2-12 years) entered a prospective trial in which the operation was performed either with normal gauze swabs or calcium alginate swabs. thirty-six children were randomized to each group. the mean blood loss was found to be 34.9 ml (2.07% of total blood volume) and 47.8 ml (2.97% of total blood volume) respectively. although there was no significant reduction in operative blood loss using calcium alginate, in both groups the blood loss was much smaller than that stated by the majority of previous workers.
can clinicians accurately assess esophageal dilation without fluoroscopy? this study questioned whether clinicians could determine the success of esophageal dilation accurately without the aid of fluoroscopy. twenty patients were enrolled with the diagnosis of distal esophageal stenosis, including benign peptic stricture (17), schatski's ring (2), and squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus (1). dilation attempts using only maloney dilators were monitored fluoroscopically by the principle investigator, the physician and patient being unaware of the findings. physicians then predicted whether or not their dilations were successful, and they examined various features to determine their usefulness in predicting successful dilation. they were able to predict successful dilation accurately in 97% of the cases studied; however, their predictions of unsuccessful dilation were correct only 60% of the time. features helpful in predicting passage included easy passage of the dilator (98%) and the patient feeling the dilator in the stomach (95%). excessive resistance suggesting unsuccessful passage was an unreliable feature and was often due to the dilator curling in the stomach. when maloney dilators are used to dilate simple distal strictures, if the physician predicts successful passage, he is reliably accurate without the use of fluoroscopy; however, if unsuccessful passage is suspected, fluoroscopy must be used for confirmation.
significance of discordant st alternans in ventricular fibrillation. with the use of epicardial mapping, we investigated the electrical alternans of the st segment during acute myocardial ischemia and studied the difference in st alternans between dogs with resultant ventricular fibrillation and those without it. during the 7-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery below its first diagonal branch, 60 epicardial unipolar electrograms were recorded simultaneously at 1-minute intervals by a computerized mapping system. st alternans was found in the eight dogs we observed. the amplitude of st alternans (difference in the st segment elevation of two consecutive electrograms) was greater in dogs with ventricular fibrillation (n = 4) than in those without it (n = 4) (3.92 +/- 1.24 versus 0.58 +/- 0.49 mv, p less than 0.05). three of the four dogs with ventricular fibrillation demonstrated discordant st alternans (i.e., adjacent leads were out of phase). results from the present study indicate that an increased amplitude and discordance of st alternans during acute myocardial ischemia are related to ventricular fibrillation and act as indicators of time and spatial unevenness of ventricular repolarization.
coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis in association with osler-weber-rendu disease--a case report. a fifty-three-year-old woman presented with coronary artery aneurysm in association with osler-weber-rendu disease (hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia) manifested also by large pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas. the arterial dye dilution curves were unusually distorted owing to the right-to-left shunts. the coronary artery aneurysm was located in multiple sites but was not accompanied by stenotic lesions. coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis is a rare pathologic state and has not been previously reported in association with hereditary telangiectasia.
ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle: case report. ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare. these tumors usually occur in the pineal, parasellar, or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis. we report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle. the tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach. ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor. the distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important, since ectopic retinoblastomas, unlike metastasis, can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision.
mobile knee reconstructions after resection of malignant tumors of the distal femur. limb-salvage surgery involving mobile knee reconstructions for malignant tumors about the distal femur is a desirable and achievable goal. with limb salvage, the survival rate does not decrease significantly, and the resulting function is superior to when an amputation plus a prosthesis are used. immediate and delayed morbidity is greater after limb-salvage surgery than after amputation. however, with thorough preoperative planning, use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy as indicated, and an experienced team of surgeons, limb-salvage surgery can provide a mobile knee with excellent function in the vast majority of cases for patients with malignant tumors of the distal femur.
diagnostic value of brush cytology in the diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma: a study in 65 patients with bile duct strictures. malignant strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts are difficult to distinguish from benign strictures, particularly in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. because attempts at diagnosing small cancers with fine-needle aspiration biopsy are not possible in the absence of an associated mass lesion and because the sensitivity of exfoliative biliary cytology is controversial, brush cytology has been used as a potential means of establishing a specific diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma. herein we report our experience with this technique when performed on 65 patients over a 5-yr period. each had at least one brushing. thirty-seven were found to have bile duct carcinoma and 28 were found to have benign strictures. of these 37, the first brushing was positive for malignancy in 15 (40%), whereas four (11%) had cells suspected but not diagnostic of malignancy. thirteen patients with bile duct carcinoma whose initial brushings were negative for malignancy had second brushings. of these, five (38%) had malignant cells, whereas three (24%) yielded suspicious cells. three of the eight whose first two brushings were negative for malignancy were found to have malignant cells on the third brushing. in contrast, of the 28 patients with benign strictures, malignant cells were never found. however, in two patients, suspicious cells were reported with the first but not the second brushing. a single negative or suspicious cytological finding decreased the probability of bile duct carcinoma to 43%. two and three sequential negative tests reduced the probability to 32% and 0%, respectively.
alanine-based oral rehydration therapy for infants with acute diarrhea. twenty male infants less than 1 year of age with acute diarrhea and dehydration were randomly assigned to a study group and studied in blind fashion in a metabolic unit to assess the efficacy of the addition of 30 mmol/l alanine to the standard world health organization (who) oral rehydration solution (ors). patients were exclusively rehydrated with one of two types of ors during the first 24 hours of treatment. on the second day, oral feedings were started with a lactose-free formula, and ors was given to replace stool losses. body weight, ors, food intake, vomitus, stool, and urine output were recorded at 6-hour intervals. blood was drawn at the time of admission, after rehydration, and at 24 and 48 hours of hospitalization to monitor blood gases and electrolytes. rehydration was satisfactory in both groups of patients. ors that contained alanine did not reduce the purging rates of the infants compared with those who received standard ors. clinically no adverse effect of the alanine-based ors was observed during hospitalization. none of the patients had significant hypernatremia or hyponatremia, and serum amino acid levels were not altered. these data show that the addition of 30 mmol/l alanine to the standard who-ors produces no further improvement in the outcome of the infants with acute diarrhea compared with those fed the standard who-ors.
mastalgia refractory to drug treatment. management of the patient with mastalgia who fails to respond to first line therapy is a difficult problem and there is a group of patients who do not respond to any therapy. a group of 126 patients with mastalgia who failed to respond to first line therapy and completed further treatment options was studied. the response rate of those with cyclical mastalgia fell to 57 and 25 per cent for second and third line therapy respectively. equivalent figures for non-cyclical mastalgia were 24 and 21 per cent. danazol maintains a high response rate after the failure of other drugs, whereas the second line response to bromocriptine and evening primrose oil is poor. unresponsive patients were matched to a group of patients who responded to first line therapy, and reproductive and historical factors were compared using the chi 2 test, but failed to identify which patients would respond to therapy.
dementia: what to do. dementia is a syndrome of acquired intellectual deterioration that interferes with personal or social functioning. diagnosis requires historical information from the family and the mental status evaluation of orientation, recent memory, comprehension, calculation, and abstraction. most dementias create permanent, even progressive cognitive deterioration, yet there are some presentations for which remission exists. common reversible conditions include depression, drug toxicity, normal-pressure hydrocephalus, hypothyroidism, subdural hematoma, and neoplasm. screening laboratory studies consist of urinalysis, chemistry profile, blood count, thyroid survey, vitamin b12 and folate measurements, serology, chest roentgenogram, computerized tomographic scan of the head, electroencephalogram, and electrocardiogram. treatment focuses on potential reversibility, psychosocial issues, restoring deficits, and specific symptoms.
lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell activity in b and t chronic lymphoid leukemia: defective lak generation and reduced susceptibility of the leukemic cells to allogeneic and autologous lak effectors. the capacity to generate lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells and the susceptibility of the neoplastic cells to both allogeneic and autologous lak effectors were studied in b and t chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. while in b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (b-cll) the depressed natural killer function could be restored after a 7-day incubation with recombinant interleukin (il-2), b-cll mononuclear cells showed a reduced lak activity compared with normal lak cells. furthermore, in all but 1 of the 20 b-cll samples tested the leukemic cells were totally resistant to autologous lak effectors. in most cases the leukemic cells were also resistant to normal allogeneic lak cells. competition experiments demonstrated that the patients' lak cells, as well as normal lak effectors, were capable of recognizing b-cll cells, pointing, therefore, to a postbinding cytolytic defect. in hairy cell leukemia (hcl) an overall reduced lak activity against allogeneic targets was documented, but, at variance from b-cll, hairy cells were often susceptible to the lytic effect of normal lak cells, and in half of the cases tested the neoplastic population was also sensitive in an autologous system. similarly to b-cll, in the great majority of t chronic lymphoproliferative disorders studied, the pathologic cells were resistant to normal and autologous lak effectors and a defective lak generation was found. these results demonstrate that in most b and t chronic leukemias the lak function is defective and, when inducible, does not appear directed against the leukemic population. the possibility of exploiting an immunotherapeutic approach with il-2/lak cells in the management of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders does not gain support by these findings.
extravesical versus leadbetter-politano ureteroneocystostomy: a comparison of urological complications in 320 renal transplants. the urological complications of 320 consecutive renal transplants performed at our institution between october 17, 1985 and november 10, 1989 are reviewed. the leadbetter-politano technique of ureteroneocystostomy was used in the first 160 patients (group 1) and an anterior extravesical technique modified from the methods of witzel, sampson and lich was performed in the second 160 patients (group 2). urological complications occurred in 15 patients (9.4%) in group 1 and 6 (3.7%) in group 2 (p = 0.04). ureterovesical junction obstruction occurred in 6 patients (3.7%) in group 1 and 1 (0.6%) in group 2 (p = 0.05). complications of leakage, ureteral necrosis and ureteral stricture were comparable in the 2 groups. therefore, we advocate the use of the anterior extravesical technique over leadbetter-politano ureteral reimplantation based on the lower incidence of urological complications and various technical advantages, including less operative time, avoidance of a separate cystotomy, less hematuria and ability to use short donor ureters.
immunoglobulins from animal models of motor neuron disease and from human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients passively transfer physiological abnormalities to the neuromuscular junction. amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) is a devastating human disease of upper and lower motoneurons of unknown etiology. in support of the potential role of autoimmunity in als, two immune-mediated animal models of motoneuron disease have been developed that resemble als with respect to the loss of motoneurons, the presence of igg within motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction, and with respect to altered physiology of the motor nerve terminal. to provide direct evidence for the primary role of humoral immunity, passive transfer with immunoglobulins from the two animal models and human als was carried out. mice injected with serum or immunoglobulins from the animal disease models and human als but not controls demonstrated igg in motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction. the mice also demonstrated an increase in miniature end-plate potential (mepp) frequency, with normal amplitude and time course and normal resting membrane potential, indicating an increased resting quantal release of acetylcholine from the nerve terminal. the ability to transfer motoneuron dysfunction with serum immunoglobulins provides evidence for autoimmune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of both the animal models and human als.
acebutolol effects on lipid profile [published erratum appears in am j cardiol 1990 dec 1;66(19):a8] the relation between lipid profile and the incidence of coronary artery disease has been confirmed by the results of epidemiologic and intervention studies. among antihypertensive agents, beta blockers, particularly those without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (isa), are generally reported to have negative effects on lipids, which may increase the risk of coronary artery disease. the ongoing treatment of mild hypertension study, now in its third year, has evaluated 847 patients to date with regard to lipid profile. additional end points measured in this multicenter, randomized, controlled, double-blind study include blood pressure reduction and target organ deterioration. during the trial, all patients received nutritional and behavioral counselling to modify their diet, exercise habits and alcohol and sodium consumption to control their hypertension by nonpharmacologic means. in addition, some patients were randomized to receive low doses of 1 of the 5 classes of antihypertensive medication: acebutolol, a beta blocker with isa (n = 124); amlodipine, a calcium channel blocker (n = 122); chlorthalidone, a diuretic (n = 125); doxazosin, an alpha blocker (n = 128); enalapril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (n = 127) or placebo (n = 221). at 1 year, acebutolol showed a statistically significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in total cholesterol (-12.7 mg/dl) compared with placebo (-5.2 mg/dl) and with chlorthalidone (1.0 mg/dl); a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-6.0 mg/dl) compared with placebo (+0.7 mg/dl) and with chlorthalidone (+8.0 mg/dl) and no change in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-0.4 mg/dl).
endothelial cell adhesiveness for human t lymphocytes is inhibited by transforming growth factor-beta 1. recombinant human transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta) was found to inhibit the adhesive phenotype of human umbilical vein endothelial cells for human pbl, purified t lymphocytes, and pha-activated lymphoblasts. tgf-beta inhibited lymphocyte attachment to resting human umbilical vein endothelial cells and also to endothelial monolayers stimulated with the pro-inflammatory cytokines tnf-alpha and il-1 beta. our investigations also show that the ability of endothelial cells to respond to tgf-beta by altering their adhesiveness is lost with prolonged culture of the cells. however, this loss is selective as tgf-beta inhibits cell proliferation in both early and late passage endothelial cells. these results suggest that in vivo tgf-beta may inhibit the adhesive phenotype of endothelial cells and also may limit the immunologic response occurring at the endothelial cell barrier.
the relationship between viral rna, myelin-specific mrnas, and demyelination in central nervous system disease during theiler's virus infection. the da strain of theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (dav) causes a chronic demyelinating disease in susceptible mouse strains. to elucidate the pathogenesis of dav-induced demyelination, the authors investigated the spatial and chronologic relationship between virus (antigen and rna), myelin-specific mrnas, and demyelination in dav-infected mice using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and slot blot hybridization analyses. in spinal cord white matter, viral rna was detected easily in ventral root entry zones 1 to 2 weeks after infection. viral rna increased to maximum levels by 4 weeks after infection, which was associated with inflammation and mild demyelination. at 8 to 12 weeks after infection, when demyelination became most extensive, viral rna was significantly decreased. demyelination did not chronologically or spatially parallel the presence of viral rna within the spinal cord. decrease of myelin-specific mrnas, including myelin-basic protein and proteolipid protein mrnas, was observed within the demyelinating lesions with or without detectable viral rna. these results indicate that a viral infection of white matter in the early phase of the infection initiates spinal cord disease leading to demyelination, but later an ongoing immunopathologic process contributes to the presence of extensive demyelination.
infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin: study of ten cases. infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin is not included as a separate entity in the current english-language literature as it is in continental europe. therefore we have attempted to clarify the nosologic position of acute hemorrhagic edema among cutaneous vasculitides in children, on the basis of our experience in 10 cases. our study confirms that acute hemorrhagic edema affects infants between 4 and 24 months of age. the two main features are an ecchymotic purpura, often in a cockade pattern, and an inflammatory edema of the limbs and face. visceral involvement is uncommon. spontaneous and complete resolution occurs within 1 to 3 weeks; one to four attacks may occur. histopathologic examination demonstrates a leukocytoclastic vasculitis. perivascular iga deposits can occasionally be found. besides typical acute hemorrhagic edema, some cases in 2- to 4-year-old children appear to overlap with schonlein-henoch purpura. we suggest that typical acute hemorrhagic edema should be regarded as a separate clinical entity. this allows an appropriate prognosis to be made for this generally benign disease of infants.
vascular lesions of the intestines. this article reviews the pathology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding. in addition, a modified system for classifying such lesions, based on the author's personal experience with such lesions, is presented.
headache and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. because the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) virus is neurotropic, physicians will continue to see a rise in the number of neurologic complications of this syndrome. much of this increase will be accompanied by headache, not only as a primary symptom of hiv infection or opportunistic disease but also as a result of diagnostic tests and therapeutic efforts. complete understanding of the ramifications of headache in aids will be important in the 1990s as we continue to treat a younger population, usually affected by benign vascular and muscle contraction-type headache.
right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding. serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding. three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow. it is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding.
complications of lateral c1-2 puncture myelography. this study reviewed the technical complication of 112 cases of lateral c1-2 puncture myelography for cervical spinal cord disorders. spinal cord puncture and contrast injection, puncture between the occiput and c1, and blood vessel puncture were the main complications. these principally depended on the positioning of the patient's neck (hyperextension) and misdirection of the x-ray beam. for preventing major arterial puncture, the authors also reviewed 164 vertebral angiograms and determined the pathway of the vertebral arteries and the incidence of anomaly.
prediction of variceal hemorrhage in cirrhosis: a prospective follow-up study. endoscopic, clinical, and laboratory parameters including presence of varices in the gastric fundus, red color sign, diameter and number of variceal columns, platelet count, and the child status were assessed in 109 patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices without previous variceal bleeding. during a mean follow-up period of 21 months, the predictive values of these parameters with regard to first bleeding incidence and mortality rate were studied. the incidence of bleeding was 29%, and the mortality rate 46%. endoscopic criteria (presence of varices in the gastric fundus, presence of the red color sign, and size of the largest varix) as well as alcoholic etiology of cirrhosis showed a significant positive correlation with the bleeding incidence but not with mortality. contrary to this, two factors of the child classification (encephalopathy and ascites) and age positively correlated with mortality but not with the bleeding incidence.
four chromosomal breakpoints and four new probes mark out a 10-cm region encompassing the fragile-x locus (fraxa). we report the validation and use of a cell hybrid panel which allowed us a rapid physical localization of new dna probes in the vicinity of the fragile-x locus (fraxa). seven regions are defined by this panel, two of which lie between dxs369 and dxs296, until now the closest genetic markers that flank fraxa. of those two interesting regions, one is just distal to dxs369 and defined by probe 2-71 (dxs476), which is not polymorphic. the next one contains probes st677 (dxs463) and 2-34 (dxs477), which are within 130 kb and both detect taqi rflps. the combined informativeness of these two probes is 30%. we cloned from an irradiation-reduced hybrid line another new polymorphic probe, do33 (dxs465; 42% heterozygosity). this probe maps to the dxs296 region, proximal to a chromosomal breakpoint that corresponds to the hunter syndrome locus (ids). the physical order is thus cen-dxs369-dxs476-(dxs463,dxs477)-(dxs296, dxs465)-ids-dxs304-tel. we performed a linkage analysis for five of these markers in both the centre d'etude du polymorphisme humain families and in a large set of fragile-x families. this establishes that dxs296 is distal to fraxa. the relative position of dxs463 and dxs477 with respect to fraxa remains uncertain, but our results place them genetically halfway between dxs369 and dxs304. thus the dxs463-dxs477 cluster defines presently either the closest proximal or the closest distal polymorphic marker with respect to fraxa. the three new polymorphic probes described here have a combined heterozygosity of 60% and represent a major improvement for genetic analysis of fragile-x families, in particular for diagnostic applications.
hypoxemia in the postanesthesia care unit: an observer study to determine the incidence and duration of hypoxemia in the postanesthesia care unit (pacu), 200 patients were investigated in a single-blind observer study. the number of unrecognized hypoxemic episodes, as well as risk factors and possible association between hypoxemia and postoperative morbidity, were studied. oxygenation was monitored continuously with a pulse oximeter. one or more hypoxemic episodes (spo2 less than or equal to 90%) were noted in 55% of the patients. spo2 values less than or equal to 80% were noted in 13% of the patients. supplementary oxygen was given during 55% of the 447 hypoxemic episodes registered. the hypoxemic episodes were unrecognized by the staff in 95% of the cases. with stepwise multiple logistic regression analyses, risk factors associated with a higher incidence of hypoxemia were: duration of anesthesia (p less than 0.0001), age (p less than 0.002) and a history of smoking (p less than 0.01). patients who had undergone regional anesthesia had a lower risk of hypoxemia (p less than 0.0002). the occurrence of hypoxemia in the pacu could not be correlated to postoperative morbidity. we conclude that hypoxemic episodes in our pacu are common and that the routine use of supplemental oxygen combined with normal clinical surveillance did not prevent hypoxemic episodes.
diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs of young children with gait disturbance. the diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs was evaluated using 84 outpatients 1 to 5 years of age with gait disturbance whose lower extremities appeared physically normal. chief complaints included limp (65 children [77%]), refusal to walk or stand (37 children [44%]), and frequent falling (6 children [7%]). a total of 43 children (51%) had more than one complaint. the mean age of patients was 26 months and the median duration of symptoms was 1 day. trauma was reported in 43 (51%) cases and fever in 14 (17%). results of radiographical studies appeared normal in 81 children (96%), demonstrated soft tissue swelling in 2 children, and revealed a bony island in 1 child. in 1 patient admitted to the hospital for failure to thrive and irritability, and whose radiographic results appeared normal, findings consistent with osteomyelitis later developed. of the remaining children, 68 (81%) were available for follow-up observation 4 to 28 months after the initial visit and all reported spontaneous resolution of the initial complaint. it was concluded that in a well-appearing child with an otherwise normal physical examination results, an acute gait disturbance is likely to be a self-limiting condition and radiographs are unlikely to contribute to the diagnosis.
comparison of sublingual captopril and nifedipine in immediate treatment of hypertensive emergencies. a randomized, single-blind clinical trial. sublingual captopril (25 mg) was compared with sublingual nifedipine (10 mg) to determine their effectiveness and safety in the treatment of hypertensive emergencies. in nine of 10 patients who received sublingual captopril, mean (+/- sd) systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure dropped from 245 +/- 39 to 190 +/- 25 mm hg (p less than .0025) and from 144 +/- 8 to 115 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than .001) at 50 minutes, respectively. the hypotensive effect of the drug was maintained for a mean of 4 hours. in six of nine responders to sublingual captopril, blood pressure-lowering effect was associated with a clear improvement of end-organ failure within 60 minutes. there were no side effects, including a dangerous fall in blood pressure or reflex tachycardia. sublingual nifedipine lowered diastolic blood pressure and systolic blood pressure in eight of 10 patients. the hypotensive effect of nifedipine was more rapid than that of captopril (10 vs 20 minutes for diastolic blood pressure and 20 vs 30 minutes for systolic blood pressure, respectively), but no difference was observed in the time or in the magnitude of peak hypotensive effect between the two treatments, nor was a difference observed in the duration of hypotensive effect. in six of eight responders to nifedipine therapy, a clear improvement of symptoms and signs of end-organ failure was observed within 60 minutes. in three patients, minor side effects were observed. we conclude that sublingual captopril effectively and safely lowers arterial blood pressure in patients with hypertensive emergencies.
systolic hypertension of the elderly program (shep). part 10: analysis. the shep is a randomized, placebo-controlled trial that will follow standard clinical trial principles in analyzing data relating to its proposed hypotheses. the protocol has stated a priori the main objective as well as the secondary subgroup hypotheses. sample size calculations for shep have accounted for dropins to and drop-outs from active therapy as well as for the risk of nonstroke death. the sample size achieved (4,736 participants) should be adequate to address the proposed questions. monitoring procedures have been described and established. a data and safety monitoring board that uses these procedures is closely following the data from the trial. the board will periodically examine the data to determine whether termination of the study is warranted.
long-term follow-up of patients with recurrent malignant gliomas treated with adjuvant adoptive immunotherapy. between august 1986 and october 1987, the denver brain tumor research group conducted a clinical trial using autologous human recombinant interleukin-2 (ril-2)-activated lymphocytes to treat 20 patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas. the trial involved surgical resection and/or decompression followed by intracavitary implantation of lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells and autologous stimulated lymphocytes (asl) along with ril-2 in a plasma clot. one month later, stimulated lymphocytes and ril-2 were infused through a rickham reservoir attached to a catheter directed into the tumor bed. the lak cells were ril-2-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 4 days; the asl were lectin- and ril-2-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 10 days. of the 20 patients treated, 11 were evaluated as a group (mean age, 44 years, range, 15-61 years; mean karnofsky rating, 69, range, 50-100; mean decadron dose at entry, 14 mg/d, range, 0-32). the average number of lymphocytes implanted was 7.6 x 10(9) (range, 1.9-27.5 x 10(9], together with 1 to 4 x 10(6) u of ril-2. to date, 10 of the 11 patients died, all from recurrent tumor growth. the median overall survival time was 63 weeks (range, 36-201; mean, 86). the median survival time after immunotherapy was 18 weeks (range, 11-151; mean, 39). no significant difference in survival after immunotherapy was found between those patients who had received previous chemotherapy and those who had not. the use of steroids or prior chemotherapy did not influence the in vitro generation of asl or lak cells.
basic studies on a new material for inducing antitumor immune cells. recently, adoptive immunotherapy for cancer with lymphokine activated killer (lak) cells has been widely used experimentally. the therapy has several problems, including difficulty in handling, sterilization, and time consumption. to solve these problems, new materials able to induce antitumor immune cells were investigated. pokeweed mitogen (pwm) and pwm-conjugated materials (cmc-1) could induce strong killer cells by short-term stimulation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes (pbl). the induced killer cells showed a wide killing spectrum in vitro against human tumor cell lines (mkk-1, prmi4788, nbt-2, zr-7530, h-1, hela, kb, hmv-1, pc-10, c-1). human pbl stimulated for a short time by cmc-1 also showed a tumoricidal effect on tumor bearing (mkn-1, mkn-45) nude mice. these results suggest that cmc-1 may solve the problems with currently used lak therapy and may provide easily applicable extracorporeal immunotherapy for cancer.
anaesthetic problems in ex situ resection of the liver. ex-situ resection of the liver is a new surgical technique for treatment of liver tumours not amenable to conventional surgery. this paper describes the cardiovascular and metabolic changes that occurred in nine consecutive such patients. no severe haemodynamic or pulmonary complications occurred. specific problems were encountered during the prolonged anhepatic period, which lasted an average of 5.96 (sd 1.46) hours. significant metabolic and coagulation disorders occurred 2 to 3 hours after hepatectomy because of complete loss of hepatic function. the predominant findings during the anhepatic period were hypoglycaemia and severe metabolic acidosis, mainly from increased levels of lactic acid. exogenous administration of dextrose 5% at an average rate of 188 ml/hour was necessary to maintain normoglycaemia, while correction of metabolic acidosis required 403 (sd 159.79) mmol of sodium bicarbonate, supplemented by hyperventilation. tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane was used when sodium overload was thought to be a problem. there was a marked decrease of factor v and fibrinogen, a moderate thrombocytopenia and fibrinolysis. the severity of these alterations was dependent on the duration of the anhepatic period and the primary function of the re-implanted liver.
obesity and body fat distribution and breast cancer prognosis. this study addresses the effect of obesity and body fat distribution on axillary lymph node involvement, tumor size, and estrogen receptor (er) level in breast cancer patients. anthropometric measurements were prospectively obtained on 248 consecutively and newly diagnosed women with invasive breast cancer. the anthropometric measurements evaluated were abdomen, thigh, subscapular, and midaxillary skinfolds; weight; and height. weight and quetelet index (kg/m2) were significantly (p = 0.001) associated with lymph node involvement in postmenopausal patients. the abdomen:thigh skinfold ratio was significantly higher in premenopausal patients (p = 0.004) and postmenopausal (p = 0.03) without axillary node involvement compared with women with 4+ axillary node involvement. the abdomen:thigh skinfold was higher (p = 0.05) in women with smaller breast cancers (less than 2.0 cm) and higher er levels. weight and quetelet index did not affect tumor size or er level. this study demonstrated that obese postmenopausal women who developed breast cancer tend to have more axillary node involvement than their leaner counterparts. generalized obesity did not affect tumor size or er level. premenopausal and postmenopausal women with upper body fat distribution appear to be a subset of women who have a more favorable prognosis as measured by less lymph node involvement, smaller tumors, and higher levels of er in their tumors.
adventitial red blood cells produce intimal platelet accumulation in cerebral arteries of cats following subarachnoid hemorrhage. after dividing 21 cats into three equal groups, we exposed their right middle cerebral arteries transorbitally and adventitially irrigated them with 2 ml washed red blood cells, blood plasma, or saline. to determine arterial intimal platelet accumulation in each cat, we injected [111in]oxine-labeled platelets intravenously immediately before injecting the various experimental solutions. animals were sacrificed 2 or 4 hours following the injection of labeled platelets. irrigation with washed red blood cells produced a significantly greater intraluminal accumulation of platelets than irrigation with saline (p less than 0.05). plasma tended to have less of an effect on platelet accumulation than washed red blood cells, but this difference was not significant. these data suggest that the adventitial blood fraction responsible for intimal platelet accumulation in cerebral arteries following subarachnoid hemorrhage may be derived mainly from the red blood cell fraction.
the maylard incision in gynecologic surgery the transverse muscle-splitting maylard incision was used in 175 gynecologic patients who required pelvic-abdominal surgery. one hundred fifty-three patients (87%) had pelvic malignancy; other indications for operation included uterine myomas, endometriosis, tuboovarian abscess, and benign ovarian cysts. exposure was excellent: 54% of patients underwent pelvic lymphadenectomy and 17% underwent paraaortic lymphadenectomy. twelve patients (6.9%) had wound complications, but there was neither long-term morbidity nor mortality associated with the incision. fifty-six patients (32%) received preoperative or postoperative pelvic radiation therapy with no detrimental effect on wound healing. the maylard incision is cosmetic, strong, easily learned, and has an acceptable complication rate. unless a vertical incision is indicated, the maylard technique is preferred when optimal exposure and accessibility to the pelvis are required.
coronary angioplasty following cardiac transplantation: a case report and review of the literature. a 23-year-old man underwent successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a severe stenosis of the left anterior descending artery 25 months after orthotopic heart transplantation. four months later restenosis of the same lesion was treated by repeat ptca. angiography 11 months later showed no restenosis. in selected cases, ptca may be useful in treating allograft coronary disease.
ampullary hamartoma: endoscopic diagnosis and treatment. this study shows a patient who presented with intermittent biliary tract obstruction caused by ampullary hamartoma. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed a large ulcerated papilla and dilated biliary ducts. tissue diagnosis was established by a large particle biopsy obtained with a snare. the patient underwent a successful endoscopic sphincterotomy and has remained symptom free for 4 years.
incidence of adverse events and negligence in hospitalized patients. results of the harvard medical practice study i background. as part of an interdisciplinary study of medical injury and malpractice litigation, we estimated the incidence of adverse events, defined as injuries caused by medical management, and of the subgroup of such injuries that resulted from negligent or substandard care. methods. we reviewed 30,121 randomly selected records from 51 randomly selected acute care, nonpsychiatric hospitals in new york state in 1984. we then developed population estimates of injuries and computed rates according to the age and sex of the patients as well as the specialties of the physicians. results. adverse events occurred in 3.7 percent of the hospitalizations (95 percent confidence interval, 3.2 to 4.2), and 27.6 percent of the adverse events were due to negligence (95 percent confidence interval, 22.5 to 32.6). although 70.5 percent of the adverse events gave rise to disability lasting less than six months, 2.6 percent caused permanently disabling injuries and 13.6 percent led to death. the percentage of adverse events attributable to negligence increased in the categories of more severe injuries (wald test chi 2 = 21.04, p less than 0.0001). using weighted totals, we estimated that among the 2,671,863 patients discharged from new york hospitals in 1984 there were 98,609 adverse events and 27,179 adverse events involving negligence. rates of adverse events rose with age (p less than 0.0001). the percentage of adverse events due to negligence was markedly higher among the elderly (p less than 0.01). there were significant differences in rates of adverse events among categories of clinical specialties (p less than 0.0001), but no differences in the percentage due to negligence. conclusions. there is a substantial amount of injury to patients from medical management, and many injuries are the result of substandard care.
anorectal malignant melanoma in sweden. report of 49 patients. clinicopathologic features and prognosis of 49 patients with anal malignant melanoma were investigated in the total swedish population between 1970 and 1984. median age was 71 years (range, 50 to 87 years), and there was a female predominance (31 females, 18 males). the most common symptom at presentation was bleeding. the majority of tumors ranged between 2 and 5 cm in diameter and all invaded at least into the submucosa and/or the lamina propria. at diagnosis, one third of the patients had either regional or distant metastasis with a median survival of 5 months. the remaining patients were surgically treated with curative intent, either by abdominoperineal resection (apr) or local excision. median survival was poor in both treatment groups (apr, 12 months; local excision, 13 months). most patients died with distant metastasis. our results confirm the opinion that apr offers no more curative potential than a more conservative surgical approach. however, tumor sizes were on average smaller in the group treated by local excision. this could indicate that, in the absence of known distant metastasis, radical surgery should be performed, particularly since local recurrences tended to be more common after a local excision.
correction of subclavian artery stenosis by percutaneous angioplasty. subclavian artery stenosis is an infrequently recognized cause of left-sided chest and arm pain that can mimic the signs and symptoms of angina pectoris. in addition, more proximal subclavian artery stenoses can be associated with cerebrovascular symptoms in the "subclavian steal syndrome." this article reviews the clinical experience in four patients who presented with different manifestations of subclavian artery stenosis and who were all successfully treated by percutaneous angioplasty. their clinical presentation, angiographic findings, and post-angioplasty results are documented. in conclusion, it is felt that nonsurgical correction of critical subclavian artery stenosis, using current angioplasty techniques, is the preferred method of treatment.
amiloride blocks the onset of acth-induced hypertension in the sheep. this study investigated the ability of two diuretics, amiloride and frusemide, to prevent the development of acth induced hypertension in conscious sheep. infusion of amiloride (20 mg/day) or frusemide (50 mg/day) for three days into normotensive sheep did not have any significant effects on blood pressure. amiloride blocked acth-induced hypertension and the sodium retention and hypokalemia which is usually associated with acth administration. frusemide failed to completely block the hypertension and potassium loss, however it blocked the transient initial urinary sodium retention associated with acth-induced hypertension. as frusemide failed to completely block the hypertension it is unlikely that the amiloride effect is due primarily to effects on urinary na excretion. it is possible that amiloride is exerting its antihypertensive effects by blocking sodium channels.
diagnostic modalities in abdominal trauma. peritoneal lavage, ultrasonography, computed tomography scanning, and arteriography. numerous algorithms encompassing the diagnostic studies described above have been published in recent years. for practical purposes, diagnostic peritoneal lavage and ct scanning are the diagnostic studies most commonly used in patients without obvious indications for celiotomy after blunt or penetrating abdominal trauma. diagnostic peritoneal lavage is invasive, rapidly performed, cheap, and accurate and has a primary role in documenting intra-abdominal bleeding or contamination in hypotensive patients with blunt trauma or selected stable patients with penetrating stab wounds. it misses small and large injuries to the diaphragm and cannot rule out injury to retroperitoneal structures. computed tomography is noninvasive, time consuming to perform, expensive, and accurate and has a primary role in defining the location and magnitude of intra-abdominal injuries in stable patients with blunt trauma or with penetrating trauma to the flank or back. in many hospitals, it misses gastrointestinal perforations or ruptures. both studies may be needed in the same stable patient, and both should be available and used in a complementary fashion in the modern trauma center.
surgical strategy for early gastric cancer. the diagnostic and therapeutic options in early gastric cancer are reviewed. in japan, the rate of detection of early gastric cancers has increased so that minute gastric cancers can now be identified as a result of advances in diagnostic methods. the results of histopathological staging of a large number of resected specimens have led to three surgical options based on size and depth of the primary lesion, namely classical r2 resection, radical resection with limited lymphadenectomy and endoscopic surgery.
achalasia of the cardia: long-term results of oesophagomyotomy and posterior partial fundoplication. forty-eight patients with achalasia of the cardia were treated by heller's myotomy with a posterior fundoplication of approximately 270 degrees, suturing the gastric fundus to the edges of the myotomy. the mean(s.d.) postoperative follow-up period was 5.4(2.8) years. the clinical results were good to excellent in 44 cases (92 per cent) and fair in four cases (8 per cent) (two with residual dysphagia and two with gastrooesophageal reflux). barium studies showed a decrease in oesophageal diameter and disappearance of distal narrowing but normal oesophageal emptying did not occur. postoperative manometric studies (29 patients) revealed a significant decrease in lower oesophageal sphincter pressure and a significant increase in the length of the infradiaphragmatic segment. in the oesophageal body a recovery of peristaltic waves in the proximal third was seen in ten of the patients (34 per cent). twenty-four-hour ph monitoring showed pathological reflux in only three of 25 patients studied, and one of these was asymptomatic. this technique is effective, improving oesophageal symptoms and controlling long-term reflux.
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer. the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma. the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively. thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer. clinically, 33 patients had a polymyopathy, of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy (two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome, one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production). cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer. ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology; 74 had type ii atrophy, 12 had type i and ii atrophy, one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis. the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications. atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms, ageing, clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour, and was statistically different from that seen in controls. qualitatively, the presence of weight loss, muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy. similarly, necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour, the presence of metastases, ageing, weight loss, muscle wasting, duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy. this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit, including atrophy, a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome. clinical assessment does not accurately assess the 'remote' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit.
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection in the peoples republic of china. meta-analysis on data from 16 (two volunteer and 14 endoscopic) studies ahs been performed to investigate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection in the stomachs of individuals within the peoples republic of china. in this survey covering 2216 cases (89 volunteers and 2127 endoscopy patients), the incidence of h. pylori infection in 15- to 22-yr-old healthy volunteers, and in 13- to 88-yr-old symptomatic patients undergoing gastroscopy was 49.4% and 64.5%, respectively. the frequency of h. pylori infection in chronic gastritis (63.6%), gastric ulcer (71.9%), and duodenal ulcer disease (73.1%) differed significantly from that in histologically normal individuals (8.2%), confirming the relationship of h. pylori infection with those disease states. we found no significant association between h. pylori infection and symptoms.
dystrophin analysis in duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy carriers: correlation with intracellular calcium and albumin. immunocytochemical localization and immunoblot analysis of dystrophin in muscle fibers of 11 obligate and probable, and 7 possible carriers of duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy revealed an abnormal expression of the protein in 3 of them. localization of calcium and albumin, as endogenous markers of extracellular fluid penetration, showed the presence of both molecules inside some fibers lacking dystrophin. our morphological studies show that the initial stages leading to fiber necrosis in duchenne muscular dystrophy are present in carriers with mosaicism. comparison of dystrophin studies with restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and creatine kinase levels showed that neither immunocytochemical nor immunoblot techniques for dystrophin are sensitive enough to provide a basis for genetic counseling.
neurologic complications of alcoholism. neurologic and myopathic complications of alcoholism are multiple and diverse, affecting both the central and peripheral nervous systems. in the ed, initial concern is for diagnosing readily reversible causes and ruling out possible life- or limb-threatening etiologies. a rapid assessment of the abcs, a fingerstick blood glucose determination, and, in cases of ams, the administration of intravenous naloxone is indicated. in almost every instance of a potential neurologic complication, intravenous thiamine replacement is indicated initially, along with the parenteral administration of folic acid and the other b vitamins, including nicotinic acid and pyridoxine. metabolic screening with electrolytes, glucose, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, calcium, magnesium, liver enzymes (ast, alkaline phosphatase), bilirubin, arterial blood gases with carboxyhemoglobin determination, and a complete blood count are often warranted. special tests such as ct scan, ck, ammonia, or toxicologic screens are indicated in specific instances. in terms of physical examination, attention to the presence of focal neurologic findings is paramount because of the possibility of a subdural or epidural hematoma. it is important not to miss meningitis and a low threshold for treatment or lumbar puncture should be maintained. specialized consultation and referral are needed only after stabilization and appropriate tests are performed. if an organized approach to the evaluation of an alcoholic with neurologic symptoms is undertaken, occult disease will not be missed and outcomes will be improved.
pulmonary aspiration during emergency endoscopy in patients with upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. objective: to evaluate the frequency and significance of aspiration and its clinical importance in patients with upper gi bleeding undergoing esophagogastroduodenoscopy in the icu. design: thirty consecutive patients with active and severe upper gi bleeding were studied. setting: icu. patients: ranged in age from 20 to 78 yr with an equal number of males and females. interventions: all patients had continuous pulse oximetry monitoring and had chest radiographs obtained less than 12 hr before endoscopy and less than 4 hr after endoscopy. measurements: six (20%) of 30 patients developed new lung infiltrates after esophagogastroduodenoscopy. in this group of patients, preendoscopy chest radiographs were obtained after less than 4 hr. in five of these patients, infiltrates were accompanied by fever and/or leukocytosis and oxygen desaturation to less than 90% during the esophagogastroduodenoscopy. conclusion: clinically significant aspiration pneumonia frequently complicates esophagogastroduodenoscopy in upper gi bleeding patients and is an important mechanism of esophagogastroduodenoscopy-induced hypoxia.
an objective score to predict upper tract deterioration in myelodysplasia. bladder dysfunction in myelodysplasia may present a significant hazard to the upper tract and a threat to kidney function. urodynamic features of high leak pressure and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia have been associated with an increased risk. we have developed an objective score to describe urodynamic findings in myelodysplasia. the score includes consideration of bladder compliance, detrusor contractility and reflux, in addition to leak pressure and sphincter behavior. in 171 myelodysplastic patients a significant correlation was demonstrated between the score and upper tract studies at the time of urodynamics and the score and the management decision. of 73 myelodysplasia patients with normal upper tracts at the first urodynamics study hydronephrosis later developed in 14. the score was a potent predictor of outcome (p = 0.0006).
surgical therapy in barrett's esophagus. seventy-six patients with barrett's esophagus were cared for during a 10-year period. fifty-six patients (74%) presented with complications of the disease. there were 20 strictures, 7 giant ulcers, 11 cases of dysplasia, and 29 patients with carcinoma. in patients with benign disease, 93% had mechanically defective sphincters and 83% had peristaltic failure of the lower esophageal body. esophageal ph monitoring showed excessive esophageal exposure to ph less than 4 in 93% and excessive exposure to ph more than 7 in 34% of the patients tested. ninety-three per cent of patients with excessive alkaline exposure had complications, compared to only 44% with normal alkaline exposure (p less than 0.01). gastric ph monitoring, serum gastrin levels, and gastric acid analysis supported a duodenal source for the alkaline exposure. antireflux surgery was performed using nissen fundoplication in 30, belsey partial fundoplication in 3, and collis-belsey gastroplasty in 2. six required resection with colon interposition. good symptomatic control was achieved in 77% after antireflux surgery. four patients had symptoms and signs of duodenogastric reflux; three required a bile diversion procedure. fifteen patients had an en bloc curative resection with colon interposition. one patient with high-grade dysplasia on biopsy was found to have intramucosal carcinoma after simple esophagectomy. five tumors were intramucosal, seven were intramural, and four were transmural. lymph node involvement occurred only in the latter two. actuarial survival 5 years after curative resection was 53%. median survival time for patients after palliative resection or no resection was 12 months. study of en bloc specimens indicated that extent of resection should be adapted to extent of disease: esophagectomy for intramucosal disease, en bloc esophagectomy with splenic preservation for intramural and transmural disease. serum cea was useful in detecting recurrent disease after surgery when the primary tumor stained positively for cea.
effects of n-3 fatty acids in essential hypertension. we examined the effects on blood pressure, plasma lipoproteins, and platelet function when marine oil supplements (rich in n-3 fatty acids) or vegetable oil supplements (rich in n-6 fatty acids) were added to the usual diets of patients with mild essential hypertension. in a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study, patients received 50 g of either marine oil (n = 8) or vegetable oil (n = 8) daily for 6 weeks following a baseline observation period. diastolic blood pressure declined during treatment with fish oil (mean +/- sem, 96 +/- 2 v 89 +/- 2 mm hg, p = .02), but did not change with vegetable oil (92 +/- 1 v 94 +/- 1 mm hg). systolic blood pressure did not change significantly during either treatment. serum triglycerides declined (by approximately 30%) in patients receiving only marine oil, but total cholesterol, ldl-, hdl-, hdl2-, and hdl3-cholesterol-subfractions and apolipoproteins a-i and b were unchanged in both treatment groups. bleeding time increased by 33% during treatment with marine oil but did not change with vegetable oil supplements. marine oil did not alter in vitro platelet aggregation thresholds. the lack of a significant correlation between blood pressure changes and platelet membrane fluidity, plasma renin activity, aldosterone, norepinephrine, or epinephrine suggests that these variables did not mediate the antihypertensive effect of the marine oil. we conclude that large doses of marine oil reduce diastolic blood pressure, lower triglycerides, and increase bleeding time in patients with mild hypertension.
lumbar intervertebral disc prolapse in teenage twins. a case report and review of the literature. we report the cases of teenage twin girls presenting within months of each other with severe symptoms from lumbosacral disc prolapses, requiring laminectomy in one and chemonucleolysis in the other. ct scans showed similarities in spinal configuration, including the presence of disc bulges at the l4-5 level. this suggests a strong hereditary factor in prolapse of intervertebral discs, but a review of the literature showed little information on that aspect.
in vitro and in vivo effects within the coronary sinus of nonarcing and arcing shocks using a new system of low-energy dc ablation. dc shocks within the coronary sinus have been abandoned because of the risk of cardiac rupture and tamponade. catheter ablation using dc energy to electrodes straddling the ostium of the coronary sinus, when used clinically, has been reported to result in cardiac tamponade in as many as 16% of patients. a new system of energy delivery maximizes voltage while decreasing the undesirable effects caused by barotrauma. this system includes 1) a low-energy ablation power supply with a brief time-constant capacitive discharge that delivers up to 40 j and 3,000 v and 2) a low-energy ablation catheter with a contoured distal electrode. we performed in vitro and in vivo studies of this new system and compared arcing shocks with nonarcing shocks. ablations were performed using unipolar distal shocks (d) and unipolar shocks to both electrodes made electrically common (p-d). in vitro studies were done in a large tank filled with physiological saline while recording voltage, current, and pressure. high-speed cinematography (32,000 frames/sec) of shocks of 10-40 j permitted detailed analysis of the vapor globe. anodal shocks of less than 20 j showed no arcing or only minimal vapor globe formation. for d and p-d anodal shocks of 40 j, the diameters of the vapor globe were 31 and 22 mm, respectively, corresponding to pressure recordings of 11 and 4.9 atm. the pressure rise lasted less than 50 mu sec. in vivo studies involved 18 dogs that received nonarcing shocks (one to six shocks of 15 j) and 18 dogs that received arcing shocks (one to three shocks of 40 j). each group was divided between d and p-d shocks; catheter ablation was performed at a mean +/- sem distance of 2.94 +/- 0.92 cm within the coronary sinus. all dogs tolerated the procedure without cardiac rupture or tamponade. when killed 2-4 days later, the dogs had edema and hyperemia or hemorrhage in the area of the coronary sinus. we compared the effects of multiple (three to six) nonarcing shocks with the effects of one to three arcing shocks. disruption or rupture of the coronary sinus within the epicardial fat space occurred in two of 12 dogs (17%) with multiple nonarcing shocks but in 13 of 18 dogs (72%) with arcing shocks (p less than 0.003). occlusion of the coronary sinus occurred in two of 12 dogs (17%) with multiple nonarcing shocks and in nine of 18 dogs (50%) with arcing shocks (p less than 0.06).(abstract truncated at 400 words).
osteotomy for osteoarthritis of the hip. a survivorship analysis. we have reviewed 368 osteotomies carried out for osteoarthritis of the hip at the nuffield orthopaedic centre. survivorship analysis showed that 10 years after osteotomy 47% had required no further surgery, and even after 20 years 23% had still not had a hip replacement. hips with moderate arthritic change showed significantly better results than those with more severe degeneration. osteotomies with varus angulation as well as medial displacement showed longer survival.
vitamin e in gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion. to clarify the relationship among vitamin e, oxygen radicals, and lipid peroxidation in ischemia-reperfusion, we produced an experimental model of gastric mucosal injury in rats by ischemia-reperfusion with clamping of the celiac artery and measurements of the area of gastric erosion, thiobarbituric acid (tba)-reactive substances, and alpha-tocopherol in serum and gastric mucosa during ischemia-reperfusion. the area of gastric erosions and tba-reactive substances in gastric mucosa were significantly increased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion. the serum alpha-tocopherol-cholesterol ratio and gastric mucosal alpha-tocopherol were significantly decreased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion. on the other hand, in vitamin e-deficient rats, gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion was more severe than that in vitamin e-nondeficient rats. these results indicate that vitamin e is consumed in the process of lipid peroxidation induced by oxygen radicals in ischemia-reperfusion to prevent the development of tissue damage.
transient left ventricular filling abnormalities (diastolic stunning) after acute myocardial infarction. a variety of experimental studies suggest that diastolic left ventricular (lv) function changes after acute myocardial infarction (ami), but limited data exist on these changes in humans. to assess diastolic filling after ami, 60 patients underwent doppler echocardiographic examination within 24 hours of ami. of 54 patients who also underwent catheterization, 45 (83%) were successfully reperfused. a subgroup of 17 patients underwent a follow-up doppler examination at 7 days after infarction, whereas 15 patients with stable exertional angina served as control subjects. there was no significant difference in age, gender, incidence of systemic hypertension or diabetes mellitus, heart rate, mean arterial pressure or severity of coronary artery disease between the infarct and control groups. the infarct group had a lower velocity time integral total (9.9 +/- 0.4 cm vs 12.0 +/- 0.9 cm, p less than 0.001), a lower velocity time integral e (5.8 +/- 0.3 cm vs 6.8 +/- 0.5 cm, p less than 0.01) and a lower velocity time integral 0.333 (3.5 +/- 0.4 cm vs 6.1 +/- 0.5 cm, p less than 0.01) than the control group. in addition, velocity time integral a/total was significantly greater in the infarction group (0.44 +/- 0.03 vs 0.35 +/- 0.04, p less than 0.01) compared to the control group. the follow-up subgroup showed an increase in velocity time integral total (p less than 0.01), velocity time integral e (p less than 0.05) and velocity time integral 0.333/total (p less than 0.05) over the first 7 days after infarction. the final recovery values at 7 days were not significantly different from those of the coronary artery disease group.
squamous carcinoma metastatic to the sternum. a 63-year-old man had a 10 x 16-cm sternal mass 18 months after a second aortocoronary bypass operation. the resected lesion was a metastatic tumor of squamous histology. no primary tumor was found. the diagnostic work-up and treatment options are presented.
nocturnal intragastric acidity during and after a period of dosing with either ranitidine or omeprazole. the magnitude and duration of changes in nocturnal intragastric acidity caused by 25 days of dosing with the antisecretory drugs ranitidine and omeprazole were investigated in a double-blind study of 22 healthy subjects. nocturnal intragastric acidity was studied before (twice), during (on day 25), and after (every 3 days for 21 days) dosing with either 300 mg ranitidine at night or 40 mg omeprazole every morning. three and six days after withdrawal of dosing with ranitidine, median integrated nocturnal intragastric acidity was increased significantly (17% and 14%, p = 0.01 and p = 0.05, respectively) compared with before dosing. three days after withdrawal of dosing with omeprazole, median integrated nocturnal intragastric acidity was decreased significantly (-23%, p = 0.003). compared with before dosing, no significant differences were seen in the ranitidine group between days 9 and 21 or the omeprazole group between days 6 and 21 after cessation of dosing. fasting plasma gastrin concentration was measured on the morning of each study; compared with before treatment, the only significant elevations occurred on the last day of dosing with omeprazole (before, 4 pmol/l; during, 7 pmol/l). it is concluded that rebound intragastric hyperacidity after dosing with 300 mg ranitidine at night or sustained hypoacidity after dosing with 40 mg omeprazole every morning reflect transient disturbances of gastric function that are unlikely to be of clinical importance.
biliary and pancreatic metastases of breast carcinoma: is surgical palliation indicated? obstructive jaundice developed in a patient concomitantly with the diagnosis of breast carcinoma. abdominal exploration disclosed a metastatic tumor in the head of the pancreas, the distal bile duct, and the gallbladder. a cholecystectomy and choledochojejunostomy were performed and later, because of intestinal obstruction, the patient underwent gastrojejunostomy. pathological examination demonstrated metastatic lobular carcinoma of breast with strongly positive staining for estradiol. additional hormonal therapy has been given to the patient since the operation. the patient is alive 16 months after the diagnosis of her disease. this case suggests that a vigorous diagnostic approach should be adopted in every jaundiced patient with metastatic breast cancer in order to exclude causes of jaundice other than diffuse metastatic involvement of the liver. patients with extrahepatic biliary metastasis should be treated by aggressive surgical treatment, combined with systemic therapy which can offer them significant palliation and better survival.
assessment of myocardial perfusion in patients after the arterial switch operation. in 21 patients who had undergone the arterial switch operation, the adequacy of myocardial perfusion was evaluated by thallium-201 computed scintigraphy 2.6 +/- 2 (0.3-7) yr after surgery. fourteen patients had undergone the arterial switch procedure after pulmonary artery banding and seven as a primary repair. isoproterenol stress increased the heart rate by at least 55%. tomographic imaging was performed at peak stress and 3 hr later in the reperfusion phase. nine patients had perfusion defects. the perfusion defects were located at the left ventricular apex in four (with extension to the inferolateral wall in one), left ventricular anterolateral wall in two, ventricular septum in one, left ventricular inferior wall in one, and right ventricular free wall in one. some of these defects could be due to myocardial damage at the time of surgery, but these results also raise concern about long-term adequacy of myocardial perfusion following the arterial switch procedure.
sleep apnoea syndrome associated with maxillofacial abnormalities. four cases with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osas) are presented. they consisted of two cases with tmj ankylosis with micrognathia, one case with treacher collins syndrome, and one case with the long face syndrome. standard and specific cephalometric parameters were obtained to detect the site of the obstruction. polysomnographic studies yielded information regarding the patient's sleep-wake state, respiratory and cardiac functioning, pre- and post-operatively. a temporary tracheostomy corrected the symptoms in one patient but the syndrome recurred when it was closed. surgical correction of the maxillofacial anomalies will re-establish normal sleep patterns preventing osas.
periventricular hyperintensity detected by magnetic resonance imaging in infancy. twenty-one infants younger than 12 months of age were diagnosed as having periventricular hyperintensity (pvh) on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. ten infants had experienced neonatal asphyxia, 6 intracranial hemorrhage, 2 bacterial meningitis, and 3 apnea. pvh was classified according to its extent. round foci of pvh surrounding the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles were observed in 4 infants (pvh pattern i). continuous pvh was observed in 17 infants (pvh patterns ii and iii). fourteen infants with continuous pvh had spastic diplegia or quadriplegia. developmental delay was demonstrated in 15 infants with continuous pvh. no pvh pattern i infants had cerebral palsy; only 1 such infant had mild developmental delay. our study suggests that the extent of pvh reflects the severity of brain damage in neonates with cerebral injuries.
restenosis after balloon angioplasty. a practical proliferative model in porcine coronary arteries. a model of proliferative human restenosis was developed in domestic pigs by using deep injury to the coronary arterial media. metal wire coils were delivered percutaneously to the coronary arteries of 11 pigs with an oversized, high-pressure (14 atm) balloon and were left in place for times ranging from 28 to 70 days. during placement, the balloon expanded the coils and delivered them securely within the arterial lumen. light microscopic examination of the vessels confirmed fracture of the internal elastic lamina by the coil. an extensive proliferative response occurred in 10 of the 11 pigs and was associated with a luminal area narrowing of at least 50% in all but one pig. the histopathologic features of the proliferative response were identical to those observed in human cases of restenosis after angioplasty. immunohistochemical studies confirmed the prominence of smooth muscle cells in the proliferative tissue. a similar response was obtained in two of five porcine coronary arteries in which balloon inflation only was performed, without coil implant. this model is practical and inexpensive and closely mimics the proliferative portion of human restenosis both grossly and microscopically. thus, it may be useful for understanding human restenosis and for testing therapies aimed at preventing restenosis after balloon angioplasty or other coronary interventional procedures.
detecting arrhythmia by exercise electrocardiography in pediatric patients: assessment of sensitivity and influence on clinical management. we studied 49 patients with suspected arrhythmias (group 1) and 92 patients with previously documented arrhythmias (group 2) who underwent exercise electrocardiography (eecg) at our institution between 1979 and 1987. among group 1 patients, all of whom had sinus rhythm before exercise, 10 (20%) had abnormal findings on eecg, and treatment was modified in 4 of these 10 (8% of group 1). further testing (24-hour ambulatory or transtelephonic electrocardiographic monitoring or electrophysiologic study) of the 39 patients with normal eecg findings revealed 8 additional patients with arrhythmias. in group 1, the sensitivity of eecg was 56%, and its negative predictive value was 79%. group 2 consisted of 38 patients with atrial arrhythmias, 31 with ventricular arrhythmias, and 23 with atrioventricular conduction abnormalities before eecg. of these 92 patients, 68 (74%) had abnormal eecg findings. all but 1 of the 24 patients with normal findings underwent further testing, and rhythm abnormalities were induced in 16. patients with atrial arrhythmias were more likely to have normal eecg results (42%) than were those with ventricular arrhythmias (23%) or an atrioventricular conduction abnormality (4%). of the 35 patients who had been referred for suppression of an arrhythmia, 25 (71%) had abnormal rhythm suppressed during exercise. clinical management was modified in 27% of group 2 patients on the basis of eecg findings.
colonic lipomas: outcome of endoscopic removal. colonic lipomas are benign adipose tumors which are usually submucosal. with the increase in the number of endoscopic procedures being performed, these tumors are often detected incidentally at colonoscopy. although the risks of removing these tumors have been recognized, numerous reports have documented safe removal by snare electrocautery. we have reviewed the clinical outcome and the endoscopic and histopathologic features of seven lipomas that were endoscopically removed over a 5-year period. four patients recovered uneventfully, while three patients (42.8%) developed colonic perforation after the polypectomy. in the latter group, the lipomas were significantly larger than they were in the patients who did not develop colonic perforation (1.9 +/- 0.4 and 4.2 +/- 0.7 cm, respectively; p = 0.048). furthermore, the polypectomy specimens from those patients who developed perforation all contained significant muscularis propria. lipomatous polyps that are identified at endoscopy to be greater than or equal to 2 cm in diameter and to have a limited pedicle are at the greatest risk for endoscopic perforation.
rotator cuff lesions: signal patterns at mr imaging. the signal intensity patterns of rotator cuff lesions at magnetic resonance (mr) imaging were evaluated in 80 patients who had surgical correlation and in 13 asymptomatic individuals (14 shoulders). six cadaver shoulders were examined with mr, and histologic correlation was obtained in four. all studies were performed at 1.5 t with a flexible circular surface coil. the accuracy of mr imaging in detection of full-thickness cuff tears (31 patients) was 0.95 and of partial thickness tears (16 patients), 0.84. the most common and accurate pattern for full-thickness cuff tears (22 of 31 tears) was a region of intense signal seen on t2-weighted images. less often the torn region consisted of an extremely degenerated and attenuated tendon with moderate signal intensity or was obscured by low-signal-intensity scar. the intense signal pattern on t2-weighted images was also accurate, although a less common finding (seven of 16 cases), in the diagnosis of partial tears. tendinitis was recognized as focal or diffuse regions of increased signal intensity or a nonhomogeneous pattern of increased signal often associated with tendinous enlargement. in some patients, manifestations of subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis was present. tendon degeneration was also manifested as regions of increased signal intensity. some similarity and overlap of signal patterns of partial interstitial tears, tendinitis, and tendon degeneration are observed.
cerebral blood flow velocities in the anterior cerebral arteries and basilar artery in hydrocephalus before and after treatment. we studied pourcelot's index (pi), which shows cerebral vascular resistance, in the anterior cerebral arteries and basilar artery, and the pi ratio (pourcelot's index in the anterior cerebral artery/pourcelot's index in the basilar artery) in 11 measurements of hydrocephalus. the mean values of pi in the anterior cerebral artery, basilar artery, and the pi ratio before treatment were significantly higher than those after treatment and those in normal infants. before treatment, the mean pi in the anterior cerebral arteries was significantly higher than the mean pi in the basilar artery. all pi ratios increased to 1.00 or more. after treatment and in normal infants, the mean pi in the anterior cerebral arteries was significantly lower than the mean pi in the basilar artery. all pi ratios decreased to less than 1.00. we believe that the pi ratio is useful to evaluate the need or effect of treatment in hydrocephalus.
long-term results of the belsey mark iv antireflux operation in relation to the severity of esophagitis a retrospective analysis of the results of the belsey mark iv operation has been conducted, relating these to the degree of esophagitis present preoperatively. analysis of 89 patients showed a 91.7% success rate in patients without esophagitis. good results diminished steadily as the severity of esophagitis increased, giving 76.5%, 75%, 66.7%, and 50% success rates for first-, second-, third-, and fourth-degree esophagitis, respectively. we believe that shortening of the esophagus is an important factor in this. shortening is obvious in third- and fourth-degree esophagitis but subtle in first- and second-degree esophagitis. we conclude that the belsey operation is adequate for patients without esophagitis, but for patients with any degree of esophagitis more effective reflux control is needed.
ischemic colitis. an ever-changing spectrum? ischemic colitis, or more properly colonic ischemia, became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years. yet, early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task. a 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors' previous experience and with data from the literature. several important factors emerge: (1) twice as many cases occurred after operations (34% in this series vs. 16% in the past), probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized. (2) sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent, while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent. seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died. a high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient, as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients. moreover, the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis, as well as monitoring of the "at-risk" patient, is needed for improvement in survival to occur. new monitoring methods, such as tonometry, may help accomplish this goal.
linear scleroderma associated with ptosis and motility disorders. a case is reported in which an 11-year-old girl developed progressive ptosis and a subsequent motility disorder of the right eye. the diagnosis linear scleroderma en coup de sabre was established. atrophy of the upper levator palpebral and superior rectus muscle could be shown on ct scan.
an estimate of the incidence of dementia in idiopathic parkinson's disease. the proportion of patients with idiopathic parkinson's disease (pd) who are considered demented ranges from 10% to 15%. because dementia may affect survival in pd, the incidence rate of dementia, rather than proportion, would be a more accurate measure of disease frequency. we previously estimated the proportion of patients with pd and dementia to be 10.9% from the records of a cohort with the idiopathic form of pd in a major medical center. we reviewed the clinical records of this cohort after 4 years and 9 months to estimate the incidence rate of dementia. we identified 65 new cases of dementia from the 249 patient-records available. using the number of person-years of follow-up for each case as the denominator, we estimated the overall incidence rate to be 69 per 1,000 person-years of observation. the mean age of this cohort was 71.4 years. the cumulative incidence of dementia increased with age. by 85 years of age, over 65% of the surviving members of the cohort were demented. the age-specific incidence rates for dementia in this cohort of pd were significantly greater than for a similarly aged cohort of healthy elderly people. the age-specific standard morbidity ratios indicated that, compared with people of similar ages, patients with pd have the highest increase in risk for dementia between ages 65 and 75.
motion analysis of the cervical spine in athetoid cerebral palsy. extension-flexion motion. frequently instability and premature onset of spondylosis of the cervical spine are found in athetoid cerebral palsy (cp) patients. these structural abnormalities appear to be related to athetoid motion of the neck in cp. through motion analysis, the authors aimed to clarify the abnormalities of cervical motion that could precipitate structural abnormalities. the gross characteristic feature of cervical motion in athetoid cp is "whip movement." both velocity and acceleration during extension-flexion motion were greater than in normal subjects, especially at the upper cervical levels. also, a sudden increase in velocity and acceleration occurred during rapid motions at certain levels, followed by a larger range of motion of the cervical spine. such kinematic abnormalities were thought to generate a greater shearing force and bending moment exerted on the corresponding cervical articulations-discs and facets. olisthetic instability often accompanied disc degeneration at the upper cervical levels. a large range of extension--flexion motion of the cervical spine, analogous to a cantilever, caused a repeated bending moment of extraordinary magnitude and was regarded as a precipitative factor for disc degeneration and osteophytosis common at the middle and lower levels of the disc.
the relationship of headache symptoms with severity and duration of attacks. efforts to develop clinically useful headache classification schemes have generally focused on linking specific symptom groupings with specific headache subtypes. an alternative conceptual approach, the "severity model" of headache, considers a continuum of headache ranging from mild to severe forms with specific headache subtypes distinguished by level of severity rather than unique constellations of symptoms. a population-based telephone interview was carried out among 10,169 subjects aged 12-29 to estimate the prevalence of serious headaches and better characterize symptoms that accompany headache attacks. in an analysis of frequency of occurrence, pain and duration of recent (within 4 weeks prior to interview) headache attacks, the data revealed that common symptoms (such as forehead pain and pain in the back of the head, neck and shoulders) were reported frequently, but headaches with these symptoms were generally characterized by low levels of pain and short duration. although not an original study objective, the data were analyzed to determine whether distinct symptom constellations could be identified or whether symptoms overlapped between headache types. symptoms of migraine were frequently experienced concomitant with tension-type symptoms; the resultant headaches were usually characterized as moderate in intensity. in contrast, symptoms usually associated with migraine in the absence of concomitant tension-type symptoms were infrequently experienced, but resulted in headaches causing the greatest disability. the data provide some support for the severity model of headache.
interphase cytogenetic analysis in the diagnosis and study of neoplastic disorders. cytogenetic information usually is obtained through the direct analysis of chromosomes from cells arrested in metaphase. recently, advances in molecular genetics have made it possible to acquire cytogenetic information through the study of interphase and terminally differentiated cells. by using chromosome-specific dna probes or probes that are specific for certain chromosomal regions, and by employing techniques of in situ hybridization along with nonradioactive detection methods, it is now possible to detect numerical and structural chromosomal abnormalities from nonmetaphase cells. when used as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis or when used together with knowledge of established cytogenetic findings for a particular malignancy, this new technology can serve to broaden the scope and utility of cytogenetic analysis beyond the limits of the present metaphase-based technology. interphase cytogenetic analysis has application to the diagnosis and study of neoplastic disorders and, thus, has particular importance in pathology.
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community: overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians. as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study, the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community (gric) in 1965 and later. death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths. in 78% of the deaths, the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records. the age- and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population (1639/100,000) was 1.9 times (95% ci 1.7-2.0) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races (878/100,000). in pima males, whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females, the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males, all races. moreover among males 25-34 years of age, the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races. diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59% of u.s. deaths in 1980, but only 19% of gric deaths. by contrast, the age- and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents, 6.5 times for cirrhosis, 7.4 times for homicide, 4.3 times for suicide, and 11.9 times for diabetes. tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima, for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death. the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents, alcoholic cirrhosis, homicide, suicide, diabetes mellitus, and infectious diseases. young pimas, especially the males, should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts. these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations.
prevention of renal disease and conservation of renal function. in summary, we have reviewed some of the most frequently encountered areas of prevention of renal failure in the elderly. they include obstruction, hypertension, drug interaction, and inappropriate use of drugs and the silent killer of the elderly, renal carcinoma. only by a thorough understanding of the altered physiology of the aging kidney can the physician avoid making the same mistakes when new drugs are developed or new types of diseases are encountered. proper early diagnosis and understanding the guidelines to therapy in these conditions, can save huge human costs in terms of mortality, morbidity, and money.
giant sclerosing leiomyoma of bladder presenting as chronic renal failure. the clinical and pathologic features of a case of giant sclerosing leiomyoma of the bladder in a male polynesian patient are reported. the presenting complication of chronic renal failure due to tumor envelopment of both ureters and consequent bilateral renal obstruction appears to be unique in the literature.
translumbar arch aortography: a retrospective controlled study of usefulness, technique, and safety. subclavian and axillary artery stenoses may lead to axillofemoral bypass graft failure. these arteries were assessed preoperatively with arch aortography performed after conventional high translumbar peripheral aortography by exchanging the initial 16-gauge sheath for a 5-f pigtail catheter. thirty-two diagnostic translumbar runoff and arch (tlr-arch) aortograms were obtained in 30 patients with advanced lower extremity ischemia. in six patients (20%), the results of the arch study influenced the choice of an inflow site. these patients were compared with 70 control subjects who underwent conventional translumbar aortography without arch studies. in the tlr-arch group, two major complications occurred in one patient, while in the control group 11 major complications occurred in 10 patients. one retroperitoneal hematoma occurred in the tlr-arch group; two occurred in the control group. the mean change in hematocrit for the tlr-arch group was -3.81% (-0.0381), and for the control group it was -4.17% (-0.0417). this difference was not statistically significant. arch aortography is a valuable adjunct to the translumbar aortofemoral study. it can be simply performed without increasing the morbidity of the peripheral study.
antiarrhythmic efficacy of a new class iii agent, uk-68,798, during chronic myocardial infarction: evaluation using three-dimensional mapping. uk-68,798 is a potent class iii antiarrhythmic agent that selectively lengthens the effective refractory period (erp) in isolated tissue without affecting conduction velocity. the present study was performed to evaluate the antiarrhythmic efficacy of uk-68,798 (30 micrograms/kg i.v.) in dogs with a previous myocardial infarction. uk-68,798 did not alter the pq interval or qrs duration of the surface electrocardiogram but did increase the q-tc interval significantly. the ventricular erp was increased significantly (p less than .01) at a basic cycle length of stimulation of either 300 ms (erp increased 24 +/- 10 ms) or 250 ms (erp increased 20 +/- 12 msec), indicating that the response was preserved at more rapid rates. uk-68,798 prevented the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in six of seven animals (86%, p = .03). however, uk-68,798 failed to prevent the induction of ventricular fibrillation (vf) in dogs where vf was the only arrhythmia induced. to evaluate the mechanisms responsible for the prevention of ventricular tachycardia and lack of efficacy against inducible vf, detailed three-dimensional activation mapping of the heart in vivo was used. induction of ventricular tachycardia was prevented by uk-68,798 due to a lengthening of the erp in the epicardial region surrounding the infarct with no effect on conduction velocity even in periinfarct regions bordering the infarct. in contrast, the induction of vf was dependent on a rapid nonreentrant or focal mechanism that was not altered by the lengthening of erp with uk-68,798. thus, uk-68,798 is a selective class iii antiarrhythmic agent that is likely to be efficacious in preventing arrhythmias due to a reentrant mechanism in patients with a previous myocardial infarction.
driving and epilepsy. a review and reappraisal driving and epilepsy is a problem that involves physicians as both care providers to patients and consultants to regulatory authorities. driving restrictions for people with seizure disorders are intended to ensure the public's safety, but such restrictions may unduly harm the welfare of many people with seizures. in the united states, all states now permit some people with epilepsy to drive. in general, only people whose seizures are adequately controlled are licensed to drive. adequate control has been judged principally by the seizure-free interval, but individual state standards widely vary. there is a trend toward greater liberalization of driving standards for people with seizure disorders, but the appropriateness and application of these standards continue to raise questions, as does the role physicians should have in the licensing process. our responsibilities to persons with disabilities and advances in our understanding of seizures and the nature of driving risks warrant a reappraisal of the current medical, legal, and social implications of driving and epilepsy.
evaluation and management of supraventricular tachycardia in children. emergency physicians may be called on to resuscitate acute complications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease. supraventricular tachycardia, with or without hemodynamic decompensation, is one of the most serious complications. we present the case of a 22-month-old boy with a history of single ventricle who presented to our institution with a history of syncope and hemodynamically stable supraventricular tachycardia. initial attempts at pharmacologic conversion with propranolol and verapamil failed. the arrhythmia was terminated in response to an iv fluid bolus and dopamine infusion and probably resulted from a combination of anemia, hypovolemia, and impaired contractility. appropriate evaluation and management relating to the cre of acute supraventricular tachycardia in children are discussed.
an unusual manifestation of paget's disease of bone: spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome. neurologic sequelae of paget's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae, ischemia caused by a spinal artery, steal syndrome or neoplasm. we describe a patient with paget's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma. clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome.
nonspecific magnetic resonance appearance of renal oncocytomas: report of 3 cases and review of the literature. we report the magnetic resonance appearance of 3 cases of solitary renal oncocytomas. all lesions were of low to moderate signal intensity on t1-weighted images and became considerably brighter on the more heavily t2-weighted images. one lesion contained a large central area of cystic degeneration, while the other 2 were solid. a central stellate scar was present in the smaller of the 2 solid lesions. our observations lend further support to earlier reports on the nonspecific magnetic resonance features of oncocytomas.
an outpatient anticoagulation protocol managed by a vascular nurse-clinician. lifetime anticoagulation has become a therapeutic option for surgical patients with hypercoagulable states or prosthetic arterial bypass grafts. however, physicians may not achieve optimal anticoagulation or may attempt to limit the length of the therapy period because of the perceived morbidity from hemorrhagic complications of coumadin therapy. a protocol for anticoagulant therapy monitored and regulated by a vascular nurse-clinician was reviewed. coumadin was prescribed for 1,891 patient-months to 93 patients to maintain their prothrombin time 1.5 to 2 times control (range: 18 to 24 seconds). the mean (+/- sd) prothrombin time for the study population was 19.8 +/- 1.8 seconds. during follow-up, 472 (14%) of 3,479 prothrombin times measured were below the therapeutic range (n = 232) or prolonged (n = 240), prompting an adjustment in the coumadin dose in 82 (88%) patients. four patients developed recurrent vascular graft thrombosis while receiving anticoagulation. there were 6 major and 11 minor hemorrhagic complications. patients with a chronic risk for arterial or venous thrombosis can have out-patient anticoagulant therapy administered at optimal intensity and regulated safely with a low incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events.
transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. a grade 4/6 systolic murmur, systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (sam), and severe mitral regurgitation (mr) documented by two-dimensional doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension. the patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure. this could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure.
an epitope on the transferrin receptor preferentially exposed during tumor progression in human lymphoma is close to the ligand binding site. we have previously reported an anti-transferrin receptor antibody, trump, which was originally selected for its ability to discriminate low- and high-grade lymphomas. this feature was distinct from the other anti-transferrin receptor antibodies such as okt9. in the present study, further immunochemical analysis was performed to define the nature of the antigenic site recognized by the trump antibody. trump was found to block the binding of transferrin both to solubilized and to surface transferrin receptors; conversely, transferrin could block the binding of trump only to surface transferrin receptors. therefore, the epitope recognized by trump is near but not identical to the transferrin binding site. stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes with phytohemagglutinin induced both the okt9 epitope and the trump epitope, but 12-phorbol 13 myristate acetate induced only the okt9 epitope. growth of some cell lines was inhibited by trump but not by okt9. no structural difference was found between transferrin receptor molecules reactive with trump and those reactive with okt9. in support of these results, trump was able to immunoprecipitate transferrin receptor molecules solubilized from low-grade follicular lymphoma cells even though it did not bind to the receptors exposed on the surface of these cells. these findings imply that low-grade lymphoma cells differ from high-grade lymphoma cells not in the structures of their transferrin receptors but in their exposure of the molecule on the cell surface.
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine. we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine, the brachial plexus and related vessels. the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium, the sternoclavicular joint, and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle. we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results. its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia, surgical technique and postoperative care.
mechanisms of vein graft atherosclerosis: ldl metabolism and endothelial actin reorganization. we have explored the effect of arterial hemodynamics on endothelial cell morphology and low-density lipoprotein metabolism in human saphenous vein segments harvested from tissue donors. an arterial pulsatile perfusion system was used to impose physiologic pressures and flows for 20 hours on saphenous vein and companion (control) femoral artery segments. a venous perfusion apparatus was also employed for the perfusion of a second (control) saphenous vein segment for the same period of time. calculations of fluid shearing and wall tensile stresses were performed and related to induced changes in endothelial cell geometry and cytoskeletal actin organization and the incorporation, degradation, and localization of intact low-density lipoprotein within the vessel wall. our results indicate that, compared with native arteries and veins, a 20-hour exposure of test saphenous veins to arterial hemodynamics induced (1) a significant increase in endothelial cell luminal surface area and perimeter independent of alignment with flow, (2) disassembly of the dense peripheral band of actin with a concomitant assembly of stress fibers, and (3) a two- to fourfold elevation in the undegraded low-density lipoprotein content, localized primarily within the subendothelial intima. although the exact mechanisms underlying these results are uncertain, the focal accumulation of intramural low-density lipoprotein may be related to the loss of normal barrier function during endothelial cell enlargement, which is accompanied by transient cytoskeletal reorganization during the adaptation to arterial flow.
increased risk of leukemia relapse with high-dose cyclosporine a after allogeneic marrow transplantation for acute leukemia. eighty-one patients with acute myeloid leukemia (anll, n = 44) or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all, n = 37), aged 10 to 50 years were randomized to receive 1 mg/kg per day (n = 41, group a) or 5 mg/kg per day (n = 40, group b) of cyclosporine a (cya) from day -1 to day +20 after bone marrow transplant (bmt). all patients received cya orally thereafter. all patients were prepared with cyclophosphamide (cy) 120 mg/kg and fractionated total body irradiation (tbi), and received unfractionated bm from an hla-identical sibling. the two groups were comparable for diagnosis, disease status, french-american-british (fab) classification, wbc count at diagnosis, cytogenetic abnormalities, extramedullary disease before bmt, donor/recipient age and sex, number of cells infused, and number of days with intravenous (iv) cya. median follow-up for surviving patients in group a was 983 v 632 days in group b. patients in group a had lower serum levels of cya (295 v 686 ng/ml, p = .004), lower bilirubin levels (1.9 v 2.6 mg/dl, p = .07), lower creatinine levels (0.9 v 1.4 mg/dl, p = .06), and a lower proportion of cd8+ cells in the peripheral blood (pb) within day +21 (19% v 28%, p = .07). first day to 0.5 x 10(9)/l neutrophils was comparable in the two groups (13 v 14 days; p = .1). in a cox model, the actuarial risk of acute graft-v-host disease (gvhd) grade ii+, after stratification for age (less than 20 years greater than) was significantly lower in group b patients (0.54, p = .04). the actuarial risk of developing chronic gvhd was comparable (p = .9). actuarial transplant-related mortality (trm) at 240 days was 28% and 26% (p = .8) in group a and b: the major cause of death was gvhd in group a (p = .02) and multiorgan toxicity in group b (p = .07). the actuarial risk of relapse at 2 years overall was 20% in group a and 52% in group b (p = .001); it was 9% v 43%, respectively, for patients in first remission (p = .0001) and 48% v 63% for patients in non-first complete remission (cr) (p = .1). actuarial 2-year disease-free survival (dfs) in group a and b was 58% v 32% (p = .02) for all patients, 71% v 35% (p = .01), in first remissions, and 30% v 23% (p = .2) in advanced disease.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka, bangladesh. this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) and diarrhea in dhaka, bangladesh, and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens. the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia (374 cases), bronchiolitis (12 cases), and tracheobronchitis (11 cases). the majority (77%) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age, and 88% of the children were malnourished. a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30% of the patients, and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34%. the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8%. the case-fatality rate was 14% in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea, 3% in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea, and 14% in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri. the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus, streptococcus pneumoniae, influenza viruses, and haemophilus influenzae type b.
anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer without bone graft. we followed 30 patients for more than 2 years after anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer for persistent patellofemoral pain associated with patellar articular degeneration. twelve of these patients were followed more than 5 years. we report 93% good and excellent results subjectively and 89% good and excellent results objectively. the quality of improvement was sustained in all 12 of the patients who were evaluated again after more than 5 years from surgery. when examined separately, 75% of those patients with advanced patellar arthrosis achieved a good result; none of these patients achieved an excellent result. postoperative continuous passive motion has markedly reduced the incidence of stiffness. serious complications such as compartment syndrome, infection, and skin slough were avoided completely in 51 consecutive cases. patellofemoral contact pressure studies in five cadaver knees have shown that anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer can provide substantial reduction of patellofemoral contact stress while helping to balance medial and lateral facet pressures. this surgical procedure is mechanically and clinically successful for alleviating intractable pain related to patellar malalignment and articular degeneration. this procedure enables the majority of appropriately selected patients with malalignment and patellar articular degeneration to resume increased levels of activity with substantially diminished pain.
spontaneous rupture of an aortic aneurysm into the left renal vein. a diagnostic challenge. rupture of an aortic aneurysm into a renal vein presents a rare and difficult diagnostic problem. often, therapy is delayed because the patient is thought to have a urologic problem. in this instance, ct scan provided useful clues leading to the diagnosis of this entity, and its rapid treatment. to our knowledge, this is the first ct scan done in a patient with aorto-renal vein fistula.
angiodysplasia: characterization, diagnosis, and advances in treatment. gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2% of all adult hospital admissions each year. angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding. in 80% of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia, the bleeding will stop spontaneously, but will often recur. although angiography may detect bleeding in 86% of actively bleeding patients, the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 ml/min. the treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel, but this procedure is associated with a 10% rebleeding rate and 7% to 8% mortality. superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding, but effects are short-lived. superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel, but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction. laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84% of patients, with a 6% complication rate. this method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages, especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient. except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated, nd:yag laser photocoagulation is the safest, least invasive, and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia.
landau-kleffner syndrome: a clinical and eeg study of five cases. in five children with normal initial psychomotor development, a landau-kleffner syndrome appeared at age 3-7 years. no neuroanatomic lesions were noted. aphasia and hyperkinesia were isolated in three patients and associated with global regression of higher cortical functions in one patient. massive intellectual deterioration and psychotic behavior were associated with transient aphasia in one patient. the epilepsy (focal motor and generalized tonic-clonic seizures, subclinical eeg focal seizures during sleep, and atypical absences) always regressed spontaneously or with antiepileptic drug (aed) treatment. the eeg in waking patients showed focal and generalized spike-wave discharges on a normal background rhythm. discharge topography and pattern changed frequently. during sleep, discharges always increased. at some time during syndrome development, all patients had bilateral spike-waves for greater than 85% of the sleep period, while at other times the discharges were discontinuous or continuous but focal or unilaterally hemispheric. discharge topography and abundance changed from night to night. the abnormal eeg and the impaired higher functions developed and regressed together, but not with strict temporal correlation. our own experience suggests that the landau-kleffner syndrome and epilepsy with continuous spike-wave activity in slow-wave sleep cannot be clearly differentiated. they may be different points on the spectrum of a single syndrome.
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas. ii. molecular analysis of origin of nondisjunction and gene-centromere mapping of chromosome i markers. chromosomal heteromorphisms and dna polymorphisms have been utilized to identify the mechanisms that lead to formation of human ovarian teratomas and to construct a gene-centromere map of chromosome 1 by using those teratomas that arise by meiotic nondisjunction. of 61 genetically informative ovarian teratomas, 21.3% arose by nondisjunction at meiosis i, and 39.3% arose by meiosis ii nondisjunction. eight polymorphic marker loci on chromosome 1p and one marker on 1q were used to estimate a gene-centromere map. the results show clear linkage of the most proximal 1p marker (nras) and the most proximal 1q marker (d1s61) to the centromere at a distance of 14 cm and 20 cm, respectively. estimated gene-centromere distances suggest that, while recombination occurs normally in ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis ii errors, ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis i nondisjunction have altered patterns of recombination. furthermore, the estimated map demonstrates clear evidence of chiasma interference. our results suggest that ovarian teratomas can provide a rapid method for mapping genes relative to the centromere.
caloric expenditure, life status, and disease in former male athletes and non-athletes. this study examined the association between aerobic, caloric exercise expenditure and life status (living vs deceased) as well as the prevalence rates of hypertension (hbp) and cardiovascular disease (cvd) in former male athletes (ath) and non-athletes (n-ath). the initial survey for this study was done in 1952. follow-up surveys of respondents were done in 1960, 1968, 1976, and 1984. the present study used all subjects who responded fully to activity and health questions in 1976 and who were reported as either dead or alive (not lost to follow-up) in 1984. a total of 348 subjects (185 ath, 163 n-ath) were assessed and caloric expenditure groups were established by kilocalories (kcal) of aerobic exercise per week; 0 kcal (group 1), 1-399 kcal (group 2), 400-899 kcal (group 3), 900-1499 kcal (group 4), 1500-2499 kcal (group 5), and 2500+ kcal (group 6). only activity considered to be aerobic was used in the establishment of the aerobic categories. death rate was highest in groups 1 and 2. subjects in group 1 tended to be the oldest. year of birth (age) (p less than 0.001) and cvd (p less than 0.05) as reported in 1976 were significantly related to mortality between 1976 and 1984. college athletic status and 1976 exercise level were not significantly related to mortality. prevalence of cvd and hbp was highest in groups 1 and 6, suggesting a moderate amount of aerobic activity as optimal.
changes in gastric mucosa that antedate gastric carcinoma. endoscopic biopsy specimens of the gastric mucosa from 13 patients who were found at follow-up examination to have gastric carcinoma were compared for abnormal histologic features, type of intestinal metaplasia, and presence of immunoreactive carcinoembryonic antigen (cea), with specimens from 40 tumor-free controls. villus-like changes and angular infolding, cytologic nuclear pleomorphism, distinct nuclear border, irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane, irregular chromatin clumping, prominent nucleoli, and distinct nucleoli were manifestations of the carcinoma group. angular infolding, distinct nuclear border, irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane, and distinct nucleoli were also observed in the latent stage before detection of carcinoma. the individual features, however, lacked specificity. histochemically, a iib subtype of intestinal metaplasia, and immunoreactive cea in the cytoplasm of foveolar epithelium appeared exclusively in the patients with carcinoma. these findings indicate that the gastric epithelium of patients with gastric carcinoma tends to be morphologically and histochemically abnormal even before the recognition of classical dysplasia. this can be described as abnormal epithelium and is believed to provide the soil on which gastric carcinoma develops.
chondrosarcomas of the synovium. chondrosarcoma of the synovium, either primary or secondary to synovial chondromatosis, is rare. ten cases of synovial chondrosarcoma were studied (four from the mayo clinic files and six from the authors' consultation files). two were considered primary. in five cases there was evidence of preexisting synovial chondromatosis, and in the remaining three, there was a suggestion of preexisting disease. several histologic features were found that were helpful to diagnose malignancy. the most important ones were loss of the "clustering" growth pattern typical of synovial chondromatosis, myxoid change in the matrix, areas of necrosis, and spindling at the periphery of chondroid lobules. pulmonary metastasis developed in five of nine patients; three of these patients died.
hypoxic events in the surgical intensive care unit. an oxygen-monitoring protocol was established in the surgical intensive care unit (sicu) at the denver general hospital in july 1988. a 3-month surveillance audit ending march 1989 prospectively documented 100 consecutive hypoxic events in 51 of 241 (21%) sicu patients. these episodes occurred during mechanical ventilation in 46 patients, during spontaneous ventilation in 15 patients with artificial airways, and the remaining 39 occurred in nonintubated patients. hypoxemia was recognized by pulse oximetry in 59, arterial blood gas analysis in 24, mixed venous oximetry in 15, and transcutaneous oxygen monitoring in 2. these events were due to problems with the ventilator or airway in 42, recent interventions in 21, new pulmonary process in 19, progression of underlying disease in 11, and unknown causes in 7. two thirds resulted from mechanical problems amenable to simple intervention; there were two adverse outcomes. in conclusion, acute hypoxia is a frequent potentially morbid sicu event. advances in continuous oxygen monitoring permit early identification and thereby may limit adverse outcomes, but should not prompt an expensive diagnostic work-up.
double-peaking circadian variation in the occurrence of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. we studied 251 patients less than or equal to 65 years of age admitted for treatment of symptomatic supraventricular tachyarrhythmia to assess whether these arrhythmias begin evenly throughout the day or manifest circadian variation in occurrence. the arrhythmias included 152 episodes of atrial fibrillation, 50 episodes of supraventricular reentry tachycardia, 30 episodes of atrial flutter, and 19 cases of ectopic atrial tachycardia. a total of 209 patients could tell the exact time their symptoms had started. in 38 of them (18%), the arrhythmia had begun between midnight and 6:00 am, in 63 (30%) between 6:01 am and noon, in 46 (22%) between noon and 6:00 pm, and in 62 (30%) between 6:01 pm and midnight. this distribution differed significantly from uniform occurrence (chi square 8.7, p less than 0.05). fifty patients were using beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents when the arrhythmia occurred. compared with the other 159 patients, they had no morning surge of arrhythmias (20% versus 33.3% of episodes between 6:01 am and noon), but instead a much higher incidence at night (34% versus 13.2% of episodes between midnight and 6:00 am) (chi square 14.4, p less than 0.005). we conclude that the frequency of onset of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias varies with the time of day, showing nearly equal peaks in the morning and in the evening and a trough at night. the modifying effect of beta-adrenoceptor blockage suggests that many morning arrhythmias are of adrenergic origin while other, probably vagal arrhythmogenic mechanisms, prevail at night.
surgical augmentation of skin blood flow and viability in a pig musculocutaneous flap model. a porcine rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (tram) flap model was designed and validated in nine pigs. this tram flap was based on the deep inferior epigastric (die) vessels with an 8 x 18 cm transverse skin paddle at the superior end of the rectus abdominis muscle. the model was subsequently used to test our hypothesis of surgical augmentation of flap viability by vascular territory expansion. specifically, we observed that ligation of the superior epigastric (se) vessels at 4, 7, 14, and 28 days (n = 6 to 8) prior to raising the tram flaps significantly increased (p less than 0.05) the length and area of the viable skin in the transverse skin paddles of the treatment flaps compared with the contralateral shammanipulated control flaps. this significant increase in skin viability was seen to be accompanied by a significant increase (p less than 0.05) in skin and muscle capillary blood flow in the treatment tram flaps compared with the controls (n = 9). the mechanism of vascular territory expansion is unclear. we postulate that hypoxia resulting from the ligation of the superior epigastric vessels prior to the flap surgery may play a role in the triggering of the deep inferior epigastric artery to take over some of the territory previously perfused by the superior epigastric artery. this would then increase the skin and muscle capillary blood flow in the transverse paddle when the tram flap was raised on the deep inferior epigastric vascular pedicle.
atrial septal occlusion improves the accuracy of mitral valve area determination following percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy. we investigated the impact of the atrial communication on the mitral valve area calculation after percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy in 17 patients (15 women, 2 men; mean age 56 +/- 4 years). the hemodynamic measurements and mitral valve area calculations were performed with and without balloon occlusion of the atrial septal puncture site. the mitral valve area determined with balloon occlusion was significantly smaller than the mitral valve area determined without occlusion (1.6 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.9 +/- 0.1 cm2, p less than 0.01), and was similar to the echocardiographically determined valve area (1.6 +/- 0.1 cm2). this decrease in the calculated mitral valve area with occlusion was associated with a decrease in the measured cardiac output, without a change in the mitral valve gradient or the diastolic filling period. occlusion of the atrial septal puncture site may permit more accurate determination of the mitral valve area and thus provide a better reference point for future comparison should the question or restenosis arise.
low-dose almitrine bismesylate enhances hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in closed-chest dogs. the effect of almitrine bismesylate on the hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstrictor response was studied in six closed-chest dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital and paralyzed with pancuronium. the right lung was ventilated continuously with 100% o2; the left lung was ventilated either with 100% o2 ("hyperoxia") or with an hypoxic gas mixture ("hypoxia": end-tidal oxygen tension = 60.3 +/- 0.6 mm hg). on two consecutive days, each dog received either almitrine (vectarion, servier lab) or malic acid. consecutive almitrine doses of 0.003, 0.03, 0.3, and 3.0 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, or the equivalent volumes of malic acid without almitrine, were administered intravenously as a constant peripheral infusion for 15 min. percent blood flow to each lung was calculated based on a variation of the traditional shunt equation. the change in percent left lung blood flow (delta %ql-va) increased significantly between the hypoxia-no drug and the hypoxia-almitrine (3.0 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) phase. no significant changes occurred during the other almitrine doses or the respective malic acid control phases. the change in arterial oxygen tension (delta pao2) also increased significantly between the hypoxia-no drug and the hypoxia-almitrine (3.0 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) phase. no significant changes occurred during the other almitrine doses or the respective malic acid control phases. it is concluded that in dogs low-dose almitrine enhances hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and that this enhancement is dose-related.
central retinal vein obstruction and axial length. the axial lengths of 24 consecutive adult eyes with unilateral central retinal vein obstruction (crvo) were compared with those of contralateral unaffected eyes and those of a control population. the lengths of the two eyes of persons with a unilateral crvo were not significantly different. by contrast, eyes of persons with crvo averaged 0.67 mm (approximately 2 diopters) shorter than their control counterparts (p = .03). this anatomic difference may be a factor in the development of crvo.
angiographic follow-up and clinical outcome of 126 patients after percutaneous directional atherectomy (simpson atherocath) for occlusive peripheral vascular disease. angiographic and clinical follow-up data were obtained in 115/126 patients who underwent directional atherectomy for peripheral vascular disease; of the 126, ten were excluded for appropriate reasons and one was lost to follow-up. thus, 115/116 successful atherectomy patients (99%) had follow-up of 182/213 lesions (86%): 74 patients (64%) with angiography (mean time 5.4 mon), and 41 patients (36%) clinically. one hundred twenty-eight of 183 lesions (70%) had angiographic follow-up; the lesion recurrence as a stenosis or as an occlusion was 53%. lesion distribution did not differ between angiography and clinical follow-up groups: nearly 85% were within the superficial femoral or popliteal arteries. despite data stratification, angiographic follow-up indicated that patients after successful directional atherectomy, at a mean follow-up time of 5 mos, have more than a 50% lesion recurrence rate. although directional atherectomy (simpson atherocath) utilizing present techniques has excellent primary success and acceptable complication rates, angiographic follow-up statistics are bothersome.
a new technique of surgical treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer without laparotomy by videocoelioscopy. we performed truncal posterior right vagotomy with lesser curve anterior gastric myotomy by videocoelioscopy on 10 patients (5 men and 5 women, ranging in age from 19 and 54 years, with a mean age of 32 years). all had a long history of chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 3.8 years. the mean length of the operation was 60 minutes (range: 55 to 110 minutes). there was no morbidity, and all patients were discharged after 5 days. the acid secretion tests under basal conditions and under insulin stimulation preoperatively and 1 month postoperatively showed a mean decrease in the basal output of 79.3% and a mean decrease of 83.04% in the maximal output. the fibroscopic control at the second postoperative month showed a complete healing of the ulcer in nine patients and a residual ulcer scar in one. no patients had any abdominal complaints. right truncal vagotomy and anterior lesser curve seromyotomy by videocoelioscopy is an efficient and elegant method of treating chronic duodenal ulcer, but it needs thorough experimental practice.
surgical procedures in the management of takayasu's arteritis. takayasu's arteritis is an inflammatory arteriopathy that often progresses to obliteration of multiple large arteries. variable results have been reported after medical and surgical management. twenty female patients with takayasu's arteritis were treated from 1973 to 1989. eleven (55%) patients had hypertension. upper or lower extremity ischemia was present in 12 (60%) patients and cerebrovascular insufficiency in seven (35%). nine patients initially managed with corticosteroids had no improvement in signs or symptoms of arterial insufficiency. eleven patients had 16 vascular procedures for the following indications: renovascular hypertension (6), extremity ischemia (5), cerebrovascular insufficiency (2), dilation ascending aorta with aortic insufficiency (1), thoracic aortic aneurysm (1), abdominal aortic aneurysm (1). procedures included aortorenal bypass (5), carotid-subclavian, axillary, or brachial bypass (4), aorto-carotid bypass (2), aneurysm resection (2), supra-celiac aorto-femoral bypass (1), ascending aorta/aortic valve replacement (1), and nephrectomy (1). clinical improvement occurred in all patients. there were no operative deaths. all are alive at a mean follow-up of 5.75 years (6 months to 16 years). revision of the initial reconstruction has been required for recurrent renovascular hypertension in one patient and extremity ischemia in another. the other nine patients remain symptomatically improved. symptomatic takayasu's arteritis frequently requires arterial reconstruction. symptomatic improvement and excellent long-term graft patency can be expected after arterial reconstruction.
ventricular arrhythmias in ischemic heart disease. ventricular arrhythmias remain the leading cause of death from coronary artery disease. this review summarizes current thinking in several areas relating to the pathophysiology, prognosis, and therapy of ventricular arrhythmias associated with acute and chronic coronary artery disease syndromes. the experimental basis of arrhythmias in the setting of acute myocardial ischemia and chronic myocardial infarction is described, stressing the important pathophysiologic differences between these two conditions. the effects of the autonomic nervous system as a key modulator of ischemic arrhythmogenesis are discussed. insights, derived from endocardial mapping studies, into the nature of ventricular tachycardia in humans with chronic myocardial infarction are described, including implications for risk stratification and therapy to prevent arrhythmia recurrence. current therapeutic principles are discussed in the management of ventricular arrhythmias associated with coronary artery disease, including pharmacologic approaches, surgical and catheter ablation, and automatic implantable cardioverting and defibrillating devices.
biliary pain in postcholecystectomy patients without biliary obstruction. a prospective radionuclide study. biliary pain without obvious biliary obstruction is common in postcholecystectomy patients. we studied 20 symptomatic patients with episodes of biliary-type pain after cholecystectomy (all having undergone endoscopic retrograde cholangiography), and in 18 asymptomatic postcholecystectomy controls. we performed quantitative hepatobiliary radionuclide analysis with dimethyl-imidodiacetic acid. from a series of 90 dynamic images at 1-min intervals using a gamma camera coupled to a computer, time-activity curves were produced in regions of interest in the liver, intrahepatic biliary tree, common duct, and heart, from which quantitative biliary excretion indexes were obtained. the results demonstrate a biliary kinetic dysfunction in patients with postcholecystectomy pain without morphological abnormalities.
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome). five patients with kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain, peripheral arterial aneurysms, digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction. as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery, which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent, the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy.
helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output in peptic ulcer disease. helicobacter pylori is associated with peptic ulcer, and a causal relationship has been postulated. we investigated the association between helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output. two hundred forty-one patients were studied: 173 with duodenal ulcer, 51 with gastric ulcer (41 corpus, 10 prepyloric), and 17 with combined gastric and duodenal ulcer. in 194 patients (80%), helicobacter pylori could be demonstrated histologically from gastric antral biopsies. the presence or absence of helicobacter pylori was not influenced by age, sex, or use of tobacco or analgesics. patients with duodenal ulcer or combined gastric and duodenal ulcer had similar gastric acid outputs irrespective of the presence or absence of helicobacter pylori. however, gastric ulcer patients with helicobacter had higher basal and maximal acid outputs when compared to patients without helicobacter (mean basal output: 4.1 mmol/hr vs 2.4, p less than 0.05; mean maximal output 19.5 mmol/hr vs. 14.4, p less than 0.05). although helicobacter pylori is associated with both gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer, its significance may be different in the two diseases.
increased plasma endothelin-1 in pulmonary hypertension: marker or mediator of disease? objective: to explore the role of endothelin-1, a potent endothelial-derived vasoconstrictor peptide, in pulmonary hypertension, by measuring its concentration in arterial and venous plasma. design: a survey, case series study. setting: university-affiliated hospitals and outpatient clinics. patients: twenty-seven patients with pulmonary hypertension: 7 with primary, and 20 with secondary pulmonary hypertension of various causes. the control groups (n = 16) comprised 8 healthy volunteers and 8 patients with coronary artery disease but without evidence of pulmonary hypertension. measurements and main results: pulmonary artery pressure was markedly increased (94/43 +/- 23/13 mm hg) in the patients with pulmonary hypertension. venous plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1, measured by a specific radioimmunoassay, was significantly higher in patients with pulmonary hypertension (3.5 +/- 2.5 pg/ml, p less than 0.001) than in normal subjects (1.45 +/- 0.45 pg/ml), or patients with coronary disease (0.75 +/- 0.64 pg/ml). the arterial-to-venous ratio of immunoreactive endothelin-1 was significantly greater than unity in primary pulmonary hypertension (2.21 +/- 0.72, p = 0.01), whereas the patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension had a mean ratio not different from 1 (0.97 +/- 0.42). in contrast, the mean arterial-to-venous ratios were significantly less than unity in both control groups (0.59 +/- 0.35, and 0.54 +/- 0.64; p less than 0.02, for normal subjects and coronary disease patients, respectively), indicating a possible clearance of endothelin-1 across the healthy lung. conclusions: patient with pulmonary hypertension have substantial alterations in plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1, which may reflect changes in net release or clearance of endothelin-1 by the lung. in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, the high levels in arterial compared with venous plasma suggest pulmonary production of endothelin-1, which may contribute to elevated pulmonary vascular resistance.
hilar malignancy: treatment with an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary stent. an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary endoprosthesis was used to treat 20 patients with hilar malignancy and isolated right and left intrahepatic ducts. in 12 patients, only one intrahepatic ductal system was drained; in eight patients, both systems were drained. in five patients, both systems were drained through a single transhepatic track by arrangement of two stents in a t configuration. the initial technical success rate in placing the stents and achieving internal drainage was 100%. complications necessitating further intervention occurred in two of the 20 patients. short-term clinical follow-up was available for 19 of the 20 patients. two months after stent insertion, two patients complained of persistent jaundice, two patients died without jaundice, and 15 patients were free of symptoms of biliary obstruction. a variety of geometric configurations are possible with this endoprosthesis. the relative merits of these stent arrangements are discussed, and a new technique for placing the stents in a t configuration is described.
attenuation of alcohol-induced hepatic fibrosis by polyunsaturated lecithin. characteristic features of alcoholic liver injury include fibrosis and striking membrane alterations, with associated phospholipid changes. to offset some of these abnormalities, a 10-yr study was conducted in baboons: 12 animals (eight females, four males) were fed a liquid diet supplemented with polyunsaturated lecithin (4.1 mg/kcal) for up to 8 yr, with either ethanol (50% of total energy) or isocaloric carbohydrate. they were compared with another group of 18 baboons fed an equivalent amount of the same diet (with or without ethanol), but devoid of lecithin. in the two groups, comparable increases in lipids developed in the ethanol-fed animals, but striking differences in the degree of fibrosis were seen. whereas at least septal fibrosis (with cirrhosis in two) and transformation of their lipocytes into transitional cells developed in seven of the nine baboons fed the regular diet with ethanol, septal fibrosis did not develop in any animals fed lecithin (p less than 0.005). they did not progress beyond the stage of perivenular fibrosis (sometimes associated with pericellular and perisinusoidal fibrosis) and had a significantly lesser activation of lipocytes to transitional cells. furthermore, when three of these animals were taken off lecithin, but continued on the same amount of the ethanol-containing diet, they rapidly (within 18 to 21 mo) progressed to cirrhosis, accompanied by an increased transformation of their lipocytes to transitional cells. these results indicate that some component of lecithin exerts a protective action against the fibrogenic effects of ethanol. because we had previously found that choline, in amounts present in lecithin, has no comparable action, the polyunsaturated phospholipids themselves might be responsible for the protective effect.
intraoperative pressure profile measurement and continence mechanism adjustment in the indiana pouch urinary reservoir. we have described herein a simple pressure transducer system which helps the surgeon to tailor suture placement and achieve a continent ileocecal reservoir. it seems that fewer lembert sutures than previously recommended are necessary to create a continent reservoir, although further study is needed.
cutaneous malignant melanoma metastatic to the choroid. cutaneous malignant melanoma metastatic to the eye is a well-documented occurrence in the ophthalmic literature. typically, ocular metastatic disease occurs concomitantly with or following the documentation of disseminated metastases. we present the clinical and histopathologic findings in a 62-year-old man whose first manifestation of metastatic cutaneous melanoma was his choroidal lesion.
marjolin's ulcer: a review and reevaluation of a difficult problem. the formation of an epidermoid carcinoma in nonhealing scar tissue, a marjolin's ulcer, is a well described neoplasm. these lesions are, however, frequently overlooked and often inadequately treated. this paper reviews six cases of scar-tissue carcinoma. all lesions were secondary to various kinds of burns. four of the marjolin's ulcers were well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas. one was a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, and one was a malignant melanoma. the average age at presentation was 59 years, and the mean interval from time of burn injury to appearance of neoplasm was 36.8 years. the lesions varied in anatomic location and involved the upper extremities, lower extremities, and scalp. in addition to the case studies, this paper reviews the literature and provides a logical treatment plan for a patient with a marjolin's ulcer. because these lesions can be very aggressive, a well thought-out treatment plan is necessary to optimize care and assure patient survival.
acute obstructive jaundice in the multiple trauma patient. the appearance of acute jaundice in the multiple trauma patient may result from obstruction of the common bile duct by clot. management of this problem may be hindered by a delay in diagnosis, especially where alterations in pigment load and hepatic clearance may have produced the jaundice. a high index of suspicion combined with the judicious use of various noninvasive imaging modalities may be helpful in making the diagnosis. the progression of jaundice in a patient suspected of having acute obstructive hemobilia should prompt rapid operative intervention. at laparotomy, cholangiography or common bile duct exploration should be done. persistent bleeding should be managed initially with angiographic localization and transcatheter embolization; its failure would necessitate surgical control of the source.
duodenal stricture: a complication of chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis. over the past 10 years, one of us (m.c.a.) has treated 92 patients who required operation for symptoms associated with alcohol-induced chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis. four of these patients had duodenal obstruction. all four had had lateral pancreaticojejunostomy to relieve pancreatic ductal obstruction and associated chronic abdominal pain; three of the four also required biliary diversion for stenosis of the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct. each duodenal stricture required reoperation and gastrojejunostomy to bypass the site of obstruction. a review of the english language literature revealed that duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis is uncommon, only 58 previous cases having been reported. all of those patients had pancreatic ductal obstruction, and more than half had concomitant distal biliary stenosis. two thirds of the duodenal obstructions were treated by gastroenterostomy, and one third were resected. duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic pancreatitis and biliary stricture appears to reflect an advanced form of the disease. combined lateral pancreaticojejunostomy and biliary diversion has emerged as the preferred surgical procedure for this problem. careful preoperative assessment for evidence of duodenal stenosis also is needed in this group of patients, and gastroenterostomy is indicated in appropriate cases.
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna. a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia. he later developed hepatic, renal, and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction. at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment, tremor, ataxia, proximal muscle weakness, external ophthalmoplegia, and a pigmentary retinopathy (kearns-sayre syndrome). muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy. analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues, with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb. the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna. both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna; they have not previously been described in the same patient. these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues.
right hemothorax: an unusual presentation of ruptured aortic dissection. this report presents the case of a 55-year-old male with rupture of a descending thoracic aortic dissection into the right hemithorax who successfully underwent prosthetic graft replacement of the involved segment of the aorta through left thoracotomy.
spinal coning after lumbar puncture in prostate cancer with asymptomatic vertebral metastasis: a case report. a 60-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for complete urinary retention. prostate cancer was diagnosed and anti-cancer chemotherapy was administered. regression of prostatic enlargement was appreciated and difficult urination improved. at 6 months after the initial treatment vertebral metastasis of t10-11 was noted on a bone scintigram but there were no symptoms induced by bone metastasis. orchiectomy was performed with the patient under lumbar anesthesia. complete paralysis of both lower extremities occurred postoperatively. computerized tomography and myelographic findings demonstrated complete subarachnoid block with an extramedullary spinal cord tumor. it was concluded that traction on the spinal cord producing neurological deterioration (spinal coning) occurred after removal of the cerebrospinal fluid by lumbar puncture.
intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis: a combined institutional review. intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies. the charts of all patients (n = 649) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the university of minnesota hospital and to the university of michigan medical center during a 13-year period (1975 to 1988) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications. the clinical presentation, bacteriology, involved sinuses, influencing host factors, white blood cell count on presentation, length of hospitalization, and postinterventional complications are presented. twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7%. aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality. intracranial complications included subdural empyema, frontal lobe abscesses, intrahemispheric abscesses, cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, and osteomyelitis.
altered protein tyrosine kinase levels in human colon carcinoma. to further understand the molecular mechanisms and the biological indicators of colonic tumorigenesis, the authors examined tyrosine kinase activity in the cytosol and in the particulate fraction of the homogenates of specimens from 20 human colonic carcinomas and compared them with the adjacent normal mucosal tissues. total protein tyrosine kinase activity could be precisely detected using miniphosphocellulose column purification and a synthetic peptide, glu-asparagine (asp)-alanine (ala)-glu-tyrosine (tyr)-ala-ala-arginine (arg)-arg-arg-glycine (gly) (e11-g1), as an artificial substrate. tyrosine kinase activity of colonic carcinoma and normal mucosa was reduced in the cytosol fraction whereas activity in the particulate fraction was elevated with respect to protein concentration. the average specific activity ratios were 1.95 +/- 0.27 (normal cytosolic/carcinoma cytosolic) and 0.57 +/- 0.01 (normal particulate/carcinoma particulate) for tyrosine kinase activity. cellular distribution (% cytosol) of tyrosine kinase activity in normal mucosa and in carcinoma varied from 21.0% to 91.2% and from 7.0% to 61.4%, respectively. in nearly all cases the percentage of cytosolic tyrosine kinase activity in carcinoma tissues was lower than in normal tissues. there was no difference due to histologic type or the presence of adenomatous components. a significant decrease of cytosolic tyrosine kinases was correlated with dukes' stage a. with advancing dukes' stage, the average specific activity ratios (normal cytosol/carcinoma cytosol) were decreased. this study indicates that colonic carcinogenesis might be associated with alterations in cellular levels of tyrosine kinase activity and that the average specific activity ratio (normal cytosol/carcinoma cytosol) had a possible correlation with colonic tumor growth.
detection of human papillomavirus-genomic dna in oral epithelial dysplasias, oral smokeless tobacco-associated leukoplakias, and epithelial malignancies. human papillomavirus (hpv) is an infectious agent that is increasingly associated with mucosal cancers, in particular cancer of the cervix. the present investigation was undertaken in an attempt to determine whether hpv could be easily detected in biopsies of oral tissues, specifically oral squamous cell carcinomas, oral epithelial dysplasias, smokeless tobacco keratoses, verrucous hyperplasia, and verrucous carcinoma. in situ dna hybridization methods were used to isolate specific hpv genomes. among 100 instances of benign leukoplakia, only 4% of non-tobacco-related and 10% of smokeless tobacco-related lesions harbored viral sequences. we were able to detect viral sequences in dysplastic lesions 3% of the time. alternatively, 17% and 20% of the verrucous hyperplasias and verrucous carcinomas were positive for viral nucleic acids. six percent of the squamous cell carcinomas harbored hpv. on the basis of these findings, it is concluded that hpv of known genotype can be identified in oral premalignant and malignant neoplasms.
unusual cerebral manifestations in hereditary fructose intolerance. five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment. in three of them, neurological involvement was related to the acute hepatic toxicity of fructose (hypoglycemia, abnormal coagulation, cardiovascular collapse); in the other two, such a relationship could not be demonstrated. neurological impairment is not classic in hereditary fructose intolerance, but its occurrence in the acute phase of the disease is possible and does not constitute an argument against the diagnosis.
hepatic arterial embolization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis. transarterial hepatic embolization was attempted in 10 and succeeded in nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma accompanied by extensive celiac arterial stenosis. all catheterization was done through the femoral artery. in six cases, the tip of the catheter (2.5-f ball-tip microcatheter in three cases, 4-f ball-tip supple catheter in three cases) was placed in the proper hepatic artery through the pancreaticoduodenal collaterals. in three cases, a ball-tip microcatheter was injected from the guiding catheter, which was placed in a pinhole of the celiac trunk. these techniques involving flow-guided ball-tip catheters are of great value for hepatic arterial catheterization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis.
hearing loss in elderly patients in a family practice. objective: to investigate hearing loss in elderly patients. design: cohort study. setting: family practice. patients: all ambulatory patients 65 years of age or older who attended the practice from june to august 1989. outcome measures: the hearing handicap inventory for the elderly--screening version (hhie-s) and the welch-allyn audioscope. patients who failed one or both of the screening tests were referred to a speech and hearing clinic for audiologic assessment and treatment recommendations. those with hearing aids were excluded from the main study but were given the opportunity to have them assessed at the clinic. main results: of 157 eligible patients 42 were excluded: 16 refused to participate, 13 already had hearing aids, and 13 could not be contacted. of the remaining 115, 34 failed one or both of the tests (14 failed the hhie-s, 9 failed the audioscope test, and 11 failed both). of the 34, 25 completed the audiologic assessment at the clinic. fifteen were found to have severe hearing impairment; the recommendation was hearing aids for 12, further assessment for 2 and no treatment for 1. of the remaining 10 patients it was thought that 6 would benefit from hearing aids. ten of the 11 patients with hearing aids who agreed to undergo testing at the clinic were found to need an adjustment or replacement of their devices. conclusions: hearing loss is a significant problem in elderly patients in primary practice. further study is required to determine which of the two screening tools is most effective. most elderly patients with hearing aids may require modification or replacement of their devices.
narrow excision (1-cm margin). a safe procedure for thin cutaneous melanoma. we analyzed the results at 8 years of an international, randomized, prospective study carried out by the world health organization melanoma programme aimed at evaluating the efficacy of 1-cm-margin excision of primary melanomas not thicker than 2 mm. data for 612 patients were assessable; 305 were randomized to receive 1-cm-margin excision and 307 to receive wide excision (margins of greater than or equal to 3 cm). the major prognostic criteria were similar in the two groups. breslow thickness was 0.99 mm in the narrow excision group and 1.02 mm in the wide excision group. disease-free and overall survival rates (mean follow-up period, 90 months) were similar in the two groups. only four patients had a local recurrence as a first relapse. all underwent narrow excision, and each had primary melanomas thicker than 1 mm.
rupture of a benign mediastinal teratoma into the right pleural cavity. a 27-year-old woman with a ruptured mediastinal cystic teratoma had high levels of amylase and carcinoembryonic antigen in cystic fluid. the activity of the amylase is thought to be the most likely cause of the rupture. high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen in pleural fluid are not necessarily indicative of a malignant lesion but may suggest the presence of a ruptured teratoma in patients with mediastinal tumors.
suppression of carbamazepine-induced rash with prednisone. we report our experience with 20 patients who developed a rash shortly after the introduction of carbamazepine and were treated with prednisone and an antihistamine. sixteen patients were successfully continued on carbamazepine while 4 had to discontinue the drug.
long-term remission of chronic hepatitis b after alpha-interferon therapy. objective: to evaluate whether remissions of chronic hepatitis b induced by alpha-interferon therapy are of long duration. design: cohort study. setting: clinical center of the national institutes of health, a tertiary referral center. patients: sixty-four patients with chronic hepatitis b were treated with alpha-interferon between 1984 and 1986. main outcome measures: patients were followed with frequent examinations and determinations of serum liver biochemical tests and hepatitis b virus (hbv) markers including hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag), hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag), and hbv dna using blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. results: among 64 patients with chronic hepatitis b who were treated with alpha-interferon, 23 (36%) responded to treatment with loss of hbeag and improvement in serum aminotransferases. all 23 have been followed for 3 to 7 years (mean, 4.3 years). during follow-up, 3 of 23 patients relapsed, with reappearance of hbeag and abnormal serum aminotransferases, all within 1 year of therapy. the remaining 20 patients continued to have no detectable hbeag or hbv dna (using blot hybridization) in serum and to be asymptomatic for liver disease, although 3 had minimal elevations in serum aminotransferases. thirteen patients (65%) became negative for hbsag between 0.2 and 6 years (mean, 3 years) after loss of hbeag. although no patient had hbv dna that was detectable by blot hybridization, the 7 patients who remained hbsag positive all had hbv dna in serum detected by polymerase chain reaction, but only 2 of 13 hbsag-negative patients had viral genome using this method. testing sequential samples indicated that hbv dna detected by polymerase chain reaction usually disappeared at or around the time that test results for hbsag became negative. conclusions: remissions in chronic hepatitis b induced by alpha-interferon are of long duration and are followed, in most patients, by the loss of hbsag and all evidence of residual virus replication.
role of endogenous angiotensin ii in the control of vasopressin secretion during hypovolemia and hypotension in conscious rabbits. in order to investigate the physiological role of angiotensin ii (ang ii) in the control of vasopressin (vp) secretion, the vp responses to hypotension induced by hemorrhage (20 ml/kg, n = 10) or nitroprusside infusion (1-10 micrograms/kg.min, n = 9) were studied with or without blockade of ang ii formation by the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in conscious rabbits. administration of captopril (5 mg/kg, iv) caused a small decrease in mean arterial pressure but did not enhance the hypotensive response to subsequent hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion. the renin response to both stimuli was enhanced by captopril, whereas the increase in plasma ang ii concentration was attenuated. plasma vp (pavp) concentration increased during hemorrhage (2.0 +/- 0.2-113.6 +/- 47.7 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and nitroprusside infusion (2.1 +/- 0.3-5.1 +/- 1.0 pg/ml, p less than 0.01). captopril did not change basal plasma pavp, nor did it attenuate the vp responses to hemorrhage or nitroprusside. indeed, captopril tended to enhance the vp responses to hemorrhage (2.3 +/- 0.3-147.1 +/- 65.9 pg/ml) and nitroprusside infusion (1.9 +/- 0.2-15.4 +/- 6.0 pg/ml). the relationship between log pavp and mean arterial pressure during hemorrhage and nitroprusside infusion in the presence of captopril was not different than in the absence of captopril. these results indicate that in conscious rabbits, the renin-angiotensin system does not contribute to the increase in vp secretion during hypotension induced by hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion.
induced abortions, contraceptive practices, and tobacco smoking as risk factors for ectopic pregnancy in athens, greece. a case-control study of the role of induced abortion and other factors on the subsequent occurrence of ectopic pregnancy was undertaken in 1986-1987 in athens, greece, where a similar study 20 years ago found a tenfold risk of ectopic pregnancy among women with one or more illegal induced abortions. seventy women residents of athens, consecutively admitted to the major state maternity hospital with a diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy, were individually matched with women with a newly diagnosed pregnancy of the same order as the ectopic index pregnancy. two control women were found for each of 63 cases, but only one control for each of the remaining seven cases. all cases and controls were interviewed by the same qualified obstetrician. statistical analysis was undertaken with stratification of individual matched triplets and pairs, as well as through conditional multiple regression procedures. the relative risk of recurrence of an ectopic pregnancy was 6.39 with 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.96-21.04. miscarriages did not increase the risk of ectopic pregnancy. the relative risk for subsequent ectopic pregnancy among women with one or more induced abortion, compared to women without such abortions, was 1.87 (ci 0.84-4.16) controlling only for the matching factors, and 1.71 (ci 0.69-4.27) when marital status (a possible selection factor) was also accounted for in the conditional logistic regression. there was no evidence for increasing risk with increasing number of induced abortions. past use of an intrauterine device (iucd) was associated with a relative risk of 3.89 (0.72-21.02); the relative risk increased with the duration of use of the iucd.
current status of organ preservation with university of wisconsin solution. a retrospective analysis of all organs that were preserved with university of wisconsin solution was undertaken to assess the impact of this solution on early allograft function. from may 1987 until june 1990, 181 livers, 92 pancreata, and 92 kidneys were preserved with university of wisconsin solution for extended periods of time. the mean (+/- sd) preservation times were as follows: liver, 12.6 +/- 4.5 hours; pancreas, 16.7 +/- 4.4 hours; and kidney, 18.3 +/- 4.3 hours. the overall rate of primary nonfunction and hepatic artery thrombosis were 6.1% and 3.9%, respectively. no differences in the rates of primary nonfunction and hepatic artery thrombosis were noted for combined liver-pancreas procurement vs isolated liver retrievals or when reduced-size liver transplants were compared with nonreduced liver transplants. likewise, no difference in primary nonfunction or hepatic artery thrombosis was seen in livers that were preserved for less than 6, 6 to 12, and greater than 12 hours. however, serum aminotransferase levels and prothrombin times were lower on the first postoperative day in livers that were preserved for less than 6 hours when compared with 6 to 12 or greater than 12 hours. early pancreatic allograft function was also excellent for up to 24 hours of cold-storage preservation. all patients were immediately insulin independent, and there were no cases of initial nonfunction or graft pancreatitis. there were only two cases (2.2%) of pancreatic vascular thrombosis in this series. no difference in pancreatic function was noted for organs that were preserved for less than 6, 6 to 12, or greater than 12 hours. likewise, renal allograft function was excellent, with only two patients (2.2%) requiring postoperative hemodialysis. the actuarial 1-month patient survival for liver and pancreas-kidney transplant recipients was 91.5% and 98.9%, respectively. actuarial 1-month allograft survival for liver, pancreas, and kidney transplants was 83.0%, 96.7%, and 97.8%, respectively. in conclusion, university of wisconsin solution represents a significant advancement in cold-storage organ preservation and is ideally suited as a universal intra-abdominal aortic-flush and cold-storage solution.
transvaginal approach for repair of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn's disease. the management of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn's disease is difficult and often unsatisfactory. between december 1983 and november 1988, 13 patients with crohn's disease underwent repair of rectovaginal fistulae via a transvaginal approach. all patients had a diverting intestinal stoma either as part of the initial step in the staged management of intractable perianal disease or concurrent with the repair of the rectovaginal fistula. each of the patients had low or mid septal fistulae; high fistulae generally are treated transabdominally and are not the focus of this discussion. fistulae were eradicated in 12 of the 13 women and did not recur during the follow-up period, which averaged 50 months (range, 9 to 68 months). the only treatment failure was a patient who had a markedly diseased colon from the cecum to the rectum and a very low-lying fistula. it is concluded that a modified transvaginal approach is an effective method for repair of rectovaginal fistulae secondary to crohn's disease.
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy. relation to gynecologic features and outcome. we identified irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) in 47.7% of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain, 39.5% of 172 women having elective hysterectomy, and 32.0% of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group (p = ns). constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls (p less than 0.05). in laparoscopy patients, dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it (p less than 0.05). in the hysterectomy group, more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain (p less than 0.005), and abnormal menses (p less than 0.01). chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients (p less than 0.05), and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy (p less than 0.01). one year after laparoscopy, ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings (p less than 0.01) and lower pain improvement ratings (p less than 0.05) than non-ibs patients. in women who had a hysterectomy for pain, there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients (p less than 0.05). ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy.
anaesthetic problems in ex situ resection of the liver. ex-situ resection of the liver is a new surgical technique for treatment of liver tumours not amenable to conventional surgery. this paper describes the cardiovascular and metabolic changes that occurred in nine consecutive such patients. no severe haemodynamic or pulmonary complications occurred. specific problems were encountered during the prolonged anhepatic period, which lasted an average of 5.96 (sd 1.46) hours. significant metabolic and coagulation disorders occurred 2 to 3 hours after hepatectomy because of complete loss of hepatic function. the predominant findings during the anhepatic period were hypoglycaemia and severe metabolic acidosis, mainly from increased levels of lactic acid. exogenous administration of dextrose 5% at an average rate of 188 ml/hour was necessary to maintain normoglycaemia, while correction of metabolic acidosis required 403 (sd 159.79) mmol of sodium bicarbonate, supplemented by hyperventilation. tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane was used when sodium overload was thought to be a problem. there was a marked decrease of factor v and fibrinogen, a moderate thrombocytopenia and fibrinolysis. the severity of these alterations was dependent on the duration of the anhepatic period and the primary function of the re-implanted liver.
prognostic value of dna flow cytometry in paragangliomas of the carotid body. a carotid body tumor is a paraganglioma of the carotid bifurcation. histologic appearance does not correlate with the malignant potential of the lesion, and thus a reliable prognostic marker for these tumors is lacking. to determine whether flow cytometric analysis of paraffin block specimens by dna index and synthetic phase fraction (spf) would be of prognostic value, a retrospective chart review of 14 patients with carotid body tumors was performed. three of 14 tumors were aneuploid and were the only tumors with spf greater than 15%. one of 3 patients (33%) with an aneuploid tumor (spf = 22%) developed a local recurrence; no patient with a diploid tumor developed a recurrence. two of 3 (67%) patients with aneuploid tumors (spf = 18%) but only 1 of 11 (9%) with a diploid tumor were symptomatic preoperatively (p = 0.03). dna index and spf may help select a subgroup of patients with more aggressive tumors who are at increased risk for recurrence and therefore require closer follow-up.
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation. a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards. subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards.
prognostic factors of hepatocellular carcinoma in the west: a multivariate analysis in 206 patients. to investigate the prognostic factors in western patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 206 patients with confirmed diagnoses of hepatocellular carcinoma were studied in terms of survival. all patients were diagnosed between 1983 and 1987. a multivariate survival analysis (cox regression model) using clinical, biochemical, ultrasonographical and pathological data obtained at diagnosis disclosed that bilirubin (p = 0.0001), ascites (p = 0.0001), toxic syndrome (defined by the presence of weight loss greater than 10% premorbid weight, malaise and anorexia) (p = 0.009), blood urea nitrogen (p = 0.025), tumor size (p = 0.001), gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (p = 0.0006), age (p = 0.0005), serum sodium (p = 0.003) and presence of metastases (p = 0.002) were independent predictors of survival. according to the contribution of each of these factors to the final model, a prognostic index was constructed allowing division of patients in different groups according to their relative risk of death: rrd = exp (age x 0.03 + ascites x 0.8281 + bun x 0.0137 + serum sodium x (-0.0538) + gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase x 0.0019 + bilirubin x 0.0734 + tumor size x 0.33 + toxic syndrome x 0.4965 + metastases x 0.55). these results facilitate the stratification of hepatocellular carcinoma patients to design and evaluate future controlled trials.
cerebellar syndrome caused by isoniazid. treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction. this resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide, reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose, and addition of pyridoxine. we discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid. patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity.
pharmacological reversibility of experimental cerebral vasospasm. using a morphometric technique, the pharmacological reversibility of luminal narrowing after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) was investigated. for vasodilation, a "cocktail" consisting of 10(-4) m papaverine, 2 x 10(-4) m sodium nitroprusside, and 10(-5) m adenosine was administered intra-arterially. forty-two rabbits were divided into six groups: control (normal animals); control plus cocktail (normal animals perfused with the cocktail before fixation); sah (animals sacrificed 48 hours subsequent to intracisternal injection of 1.5 ml/kg of arterial blood); sah plus cocktail (sah plus perfusion with the cocktail); bacl2 (animals sacrificed 10 minutes after intracisternal injection of 2 ml of 3 x 10(-3) m bacl2); and bacl2 plus cocktail (bacl2 animals perfused with the cocktail). the diameter of the basilar arteries in the control and the control plus cocktail groups was not significantly different. bacl2 reduced the diameter 44% and sah reduced the diameter 27%. there were no significant differences between the diameter of the bacl2 plus cocktail group and sah plus cocktail group when compared with the control or the control plus cocktail group. morphological examination by light and transmission electron microscopy showed luminal narrowing and corrugation of the elastic lamina with few degenerative or proliferative changes of the vessel wall in animals with sah. these results suggest that cerebral vasospasm is caused initially by smooth muscle contraction rather than by proliferative vasculopathy and that it is not an irreversible process.
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. ii. intraoperative electrophysiologic mapping and description of the electrophysiologic basis of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. computerized mapping of atrial fibrillation was performed in animals and man. to study atrial fibrillation in a systematic manner, we developed a clinically relevant experimental model of atrial fibrillation. chronic mitral regurgitation was created surgically in 25 dogs without opening the pericardium. after several months of chronic mitral regurgitation, the atria became enlarged and sustained atrial fibrillation could be induced by standard programmed electrical stimulation techniques. computerized isochronous activation maps of the atria were recorded during atrial fibrillation from 208 bipolar electrodes simultaneously. in a parallel study, human atrial fibrillation was mapped with a separate 160-channel intraoperative mapping system in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who were undergoing surgical correction of the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. the canine activation sequence maps demonstrated a spectrum of rhythm abnormalities ranging from simple atrial flutter to complex atrial fibrillation. they also showed that macroreentrant circuits within the atrial myocardium were responsible for the entire spectrum of arrhythmias. atrial reentry was also documented during human atrial fibrillation. all patients had nonuniform conduction around regions of bidirectional block in both atria resulting in multiple discrete wave fronts. in addition, six patients had a single reentrant circuit in the right atrium in which bidirectional block of the activation wave front occurred along the sulcus terminals between the venae cavae. the left atrium in all patients demonstrated multiple wave fronts and conduction block, but left atrial reentry could not be detected. both the experimental study and the clinical study demonstrated that multiple wave fronts, nonuniform conduction, bidirectional block, and large (macroreentrant) reentrant circuits occur during atrial fibrillation. the presence of macroreentrant circuits and the absence of either microreentrant circuits or evidence of atrial automaticity suggests that atrial fibrillation should be amenable to surgical ablation.
enhanced anaphylatoxin and terminal c5b-9 complement complex formation in patients with the syndrome of hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count. complement activation was studied in ten consecutive pregnant women developing hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count (hellp syndrome) and ten other women with normal pregnancies. blood samples for anaphylatoxin (c3a/c3a desarg and c5a/c5a desarg) and terminal c5b-9 complement complex determinations were drawn at delivery and 24 hours and 7 days later. women developing hellp syndrome had higher plasma levels of anaphylatoxins with delivery than did women with uneventful pregnancies. the plasma levels of terminal c5b-9 complement complexes at the time of delivery were increased as compared with levels 1 and 7 days after delivery in women with hellp syndrome. the plasma concentrations of the anaphylatoxins and the terminal c5b-9 complement complexes returned to normal levels within 1 week after delivery in the hellp group. the formation of c5b-9 complement complex indicates that the terminal part of the complement cascade has been activated and that c5a has been formed and eliminated. complement activation with release of anaphylatoxins and terminal c5b-9 complement complexes may be one etiologic factor behind the elevated blood pressure, hemolysis, liver insufficiency, and platelet consumption seen in these patients.
long-term impact of smoking cessation on the incidence of coronary heart disease. using a simulation model of the us male population, we estimated the long-term impact that future smoking cessation programs would have on the distribution and occurrence of coronary heart disease in males ages 35-84. for interventions that reduce the number of smokers by 25 percent in 1990, the number of men free of coronary heart disease is projected to increase by 416,787 (0.7 percent) in 2015, and the age-standardized absolute incidence to decline by 2.3 percent. incidence rates and absolute incidences are projected to fall in men under age 65, but absolute incidence would rise in men over age 65, in large part because of the increased number of men who were at risk for coronary heart disease because of a reduction in non-coronary smoking-related mortality. these trends were more marked for greater smoking reductions and were generally unaffected in a variety of analyses using alternative assumptions, which considered smoking as a risk factor in the elderly, a lag-time before benefits from smoking cessation were realized and secular declines in smoking prevalence. subject to the assumptions of our model, we conclude that smoking reductions will markedly reduce coronary heart disease, especially in younger age groups, and that this benefit will be slightly offset by a small increase in absolute incidence in elderly men.
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease. we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen. in addition to aseptic meningitis, both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs, ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other. the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed.
association of anterior ectopic anus and partial absence of levator musculature in a woman with impaired defecation. report of a case. a 25-year-old nulliparous woman with adult onset constipation and slight anterior displacement of the anus underwent pelvic magnetic resonance imaging and was diagnosed with congenital hemiabsence of the levator ani sling. impaired defecation was confirmed by anorectal function studies and defecography demonstrated an anterior rectocele, perineal descent at the upper limit of normal, and partial obstruction of defecation, which appeared related to the levator sling abnormality. to our knowledge, this combination of findings has not been previously described as a cause of adult onset constipation.
history of cigarette smoking and risk of leukemia and myeloma: results from the adventist health study. the risks of leukemia and myeloma associated with cigarette smoking were evaluated in a cohort study of 34,000 seventh-day adventists. although seventh-day adventists do not smoke by church proscription, many are adult converts who smoked cigarettes prior to their baptism into the church. in comparison with those who never smoked, ex-smokers experience a relative risk of 2.00 (95% confidence interval = 1.01-3.95) for leukemia and 3.01 (95% confidence interval = 1.13-8.05) for myeloma. risks increased in a dose-response fashion with increasing numbers of cigarettes smoked daily for both leukemia (trend p = .009) and myeloma (trend p = .005). also, the risks of both leukemia and myeloma increased with the total duration of cigarette smoking. the cigarette smoking-leukemia relationship was strongest for myeloid leukemia, for which ex-smokers experienced a relative risk of 2.24 (95% confidence interval = 0.91-5.53). these data lend support to the hypothesis that cigarette smoke may induce malignant degeneration in bone marrow and its products.
the accuracy of ct scanning in the diagnosis of abdominal and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. as ct scanning has evolved as a reliable clinical tool, the use of angiography in the diagnosis of aortic aneurysmal disease has diminished. fewer than 25% of patients with aortic aneurysmal disease undergo aortic angiographic evaluation at our institution. a prospective clinical study was undertaken to assess the validity of this policy. one hundred patients with clinical or ultrasonographic evidence of aortic aneurysms were evaluated prospectively during the period july 1987 to december 1989. all patients underwent ct scanning as an initial evaluation. patients were selected for angiography if they fulfilled any of the following criteria: radiographic evidence of thoracoabdominal or juxtarenal aneurysms, or horseshoe kidney; or clinical suggestion of renal artery stenosis, mesenteric arterial insufficiency, aortoiliac occlusive disease, or lower extremity aneurysmal disease. during this period 19 patients (19%) underwent both ct scanning and angiography. the indications for angiography were thoracoabdominal aneurysms (7), juxtarenal aneurysms (2), clinical evidence of mesenteric insufficiency (1) or renal insufficiency (2), evidence of lower extremity aneurysmal disease (3), or severe aortoiliac occlusive disease (4). eighty-one patients (81%) underwent ct scanning as the only radiographic evaluation. no patient was adversely affected by elimination of angiographic evaluation. ct scanning revealed inflammatory aneurysms (4), retroaortic renal veins (2), and horseshoe kidney (1). this study suggests that most (81%) patients with aortic aneurysmal disease can be adequately evaluated by ct scanning, and that a very selective policy of angiographic evaluation is indicated.
attenuated neuropathology by nilvadipine after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. we investigated the effects of nilvadipine, a calcium antagonist, on cerebral ischemia in rats. under halothane anesthesia, 30 rats had a 3-0 nylon suture introduced through the extracranial internal carotid artery to occlude the left middle cerebral artery. nilvadipine was dissolved in polyethylene glycol 400. immediately following occlusion, group 1 rats (n = 10) were treated subcutaneously with vehicle and group 2 and 3 rats were treated with 1.0 (n = 10) and 3.2 (n = 10) mg/kg nilvadipine, respectively. perfusion fixation was performed 24 hours later, and the histopathologic outcomes were quantified. in group 1 infarct volume was 28.2 +/- 11.4% of the total cerebral volume; in groups 2 and 3 infarct volumes were 25.5 +/- 11.6% (ns) and 13.9 +/- 9.2% (p less than 0.05 different from group 1), respectively. nilvadipine decreased ischemic neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner and may be of use in the treatment of cerebral ischemia.
bronchobiliary fistula detected by cholescintigraphy. we present a case of a bronchobiliary fistula initially detected by hepatobiliary scintigraphy. the patient developed bilioptysis 18 mo after undergoing a right hepatic lobectomy and resection of the common bile duct for cholangiocarcinoma. the procedure was complicated by the development of a subphrenic abscess that required percutaneous biliary drainage.
conjugates of ursodeoxycholate protect against cholestasis and hepatocellular necrosis caused by more hydrophobic bile salts. in vivo studies in the rat. the protective effect of ursodeoxycholate conjugates against bile salt hepatotoxicity was studied in chronic bile fistula rats. taurochenodeoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate, infused intraduodenally at 24 or 16 mumols/100 g rat per hour, respectively, caused cholestasis and severe hepatocellular necrosis within 8 hours. in contrast, tauroursodeoxycholate or taurocholate at 48 mumols/100 g rat per hour were choleretic. tauroursodeoxycholate was not hepatotoxic, whereas taurocholate produced moderate hepatocellular necrosis. simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate to rats receiving taurochenoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate preserved bile flow and ameliorated hepatic injury in a dose-dependent manner. tauroursodeoxycholate protected equally by intravenous and intraduodenal routes. intravenous glycoursodeoxycholate also was protective. the hydrophobicity index of infused bile salts correlated well with their toxicity. concurrent administration of ursodeoxycholate conjugates did not reduce biliary recovery of intraduodenally infused [24-14c]-taurocholate. biliary alkaline phosphatase secretion was stimulated by infusion of taurocholate, taurodeoxycholate, or taurochenodeoxycholate; simultaneous infusion of ursodeoxycholate conjugates failed to prevent this increase. we conclude that ursodeoxycholate counteracts hepatoxicity of more hydrophobic bile salts via a direct effect at the level of the liver.
the potential and limitations of laser photoablation of colorectal adenomas. ablation of colorectal adenomas by nd:yag laser energy was investigated in 271 patients. two hundred and forty-one patients, selected because of poor surgical and medical condition or refusal of surgery, presented with incompletely removed polyps or with lesions unsuitable for endoscopic polypectomy. thirty patients with polyposis coli were treated for rectal stump polyps after subtotal colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis. because of insufficient follow-up (28) or malignant degeneration (23), full evaluation was possible in 196 colon adenoma and 24 polyposis patients. complete ablation with histologic confirmation for at least 12 weeks was achieved in 150 (82%) of the 183 colon adenomas. this declined to 141 (77%) because of later recurrences in prolonged follow-up. treatment of large adenomas was less successful than that of intermediate and small lesions: ultimate ablation in 56, 85, and 93%, respectively. impressive was the immediate relief in 100 symptomatic elderly patients, who were bothered by frequent diarrhea, excessive mucous discharge, and incontinence. all patients survived despite major complications (7%) that mainly consisted of stenosis and hemorrhage. rectal stump polyps were eliminated in 20 patients with polyposis coli. the remaining four had an uneventful ileoanal anastomosis for ultimately uncontrollable growth of polyps. malignancy was discovered in 22 adenoma patients and in 1 polyposis patient. we recommend laser ablation of colorectal adenomas for small and medium-sized polyps, that cannot be removed by endoscopic polypectomy in inoperable patients or in patients refusing operation. laser treatment for extensive adenomas seems only appropriate for symptomatic relief.
elevated alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in spinal fluid from hiv-1-infected patients with central nervous system involvement. to assess the role of alpha-tumor necrosis factor in the pathogenesis of central nervous system involvement during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection, we recorded clinical data and measured alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid samples from 45 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1, classified as group ii/iii (10), group iv a (5), group iv b (10), and group iv c-1 (20) of the centers for disease control acquired immunodeficiency syndrome classification system and 42 controls. alpha-tumor necrosis factor was above the limit of detection in only 3 of 15 sera and 3 of 15 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients in group ii/iii and group iv a, whereas it was detected in 17 of 30 sera (p less than 0.05) and 22 of 30 cerebrospinal fluid (p less than 0.0002) samples from clinically more advanced patients (group iv b and group iv c-1). alpha-tumor necrosis factor mean values were 21.5 pg/ml in sera and 50.0 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv b patients and 30.4 pg/ml in sera and 24 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv c-1 patients.
socioeconomic conditions in childhood and ischaemic heart disease during middle age objective--to examine the association between socioeconomic conditions in childhood and ischaemic heart disease in middle aged men, including the role of physiological and behavioural risk factors. design--prevalence study with extensive examination and testing and with recall of childhood conditions. setting--population based study in kuopio, finland. subjects--representative sample of 2679 men aged 42, 48, 54, and 60. main outcome measures--ischaemic findings on progressive maximal exercise test. results--low socioeconomic style in childhood was associated with significantly higher prevalence of findings indicating ischaemias. compared with those in the highest tertile of childhood socioeconomic conditions, the age adjusted odds ratio for subjects in the lowest tertile was 1.44 and for those in the middle tertile 1.35. adjustment for years of cigarette smoking times the average number of cigarettes smoked, ratio of high density lipoprotein to low density lipoprotein cholesterol, fibrinogen and serum selenium concentrations, and adult height did not appreciably weaken the association. adjustment for adult socioeconomic state resulted in a 16% decline in the association. the association was reduced to non-significance by adjustment for measures of prevalent cardiovascular illness. conclusions--socioeconomic state in childhood was significantly associated with ischaemic heart disease in middle aged men. levels of risk factors measured at middle age did not account for this association, nor did adult height. because childhood socioeconomic conditions precede the development of ischaemic heart disease the substantial impact of prevalent illness on the observed association suggests that ischaemic heart disease develops earlier in those with lower socioeconomic state during childhood.
the relationship of nasopharyngeal carcinomas and second independent malignancies based on the radiation therapy oncology group experience. the authors sought to learn if the incidence of second independent malignancies after the irradiation of carcinomas of the nasopharynx is similar to that observed after treatment of tumors arising in other head and neck sites. one hundred twenty-one patients who had primary carcinomas of the nasopharynx who were treated solely by ionizing radiation (according to the specifications of a radiation therapy oncology group protocol) were identified and their subsequent well-being was reviewed. overall there was a 4.1% incidence of second malignancies (2% after 3 years, 5% after 5 years, and 8% after 8 years) with most arising in the upper aerodigestive tract. this rate is significantly less than the rate associated with other head and neck sites. it is not significantly different from the rate of first malignancies observed in an age-matched and sex-matched population. when only those patients who were free of all evidence of neoplastic disease 6 months after the completion of radiotherapy are considered, similar analysis leads to similar outcomes. the authors conclude that the risk of second malignancies after the successful irradiation of carcinomas of the nasopharynx is substantially less than after treatment of tumors at other head and neck sites.
the effects of tumor necrosis factor on intestinal structure and metabolism. tumor necrosis factor (tnf), a polypeptide produced predominantly by activated macrophages, is an important mediator of sepsis. we analyzed the specific metabolic changes that occur in the gut following tnf administration. following general anesthesia, hemodynamic and metabolic indices were measured serially in control dogs (n = 7) and animals receiving a continuous sublethal intravenous infusion of tnf (0.57.10(5) iu/kg/6 hours, n = 7). during tnf infusion mean arterial pressure gradually decreased despite fluid administration, which maintained wedge pressure and cardiac index, which were similar to control animals. while tnf significantly reduced intestinal blood flow to 12 +/- 3 ml/min/kg compared to 28 +/- 3 ml/min/kg (p less than 0.01) in controls, intestinal oxygen consumption was maintained due to an increased extraction rate. despite hypoperfusion the intestinal exchange of metabolic substrate (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, alanine, glutamine, glutamate, and ammonia) was comparable between the control and tnf-infused animals. however, when substrate carbon balance across the intestinal tract was calculated, it appeared that there was a limitation in fuel availability in the tnf animals. this may be due to competition for fuel between the gut and other major organs. fuel limitation may jeopardize rapid cell proliferation and mucosal repair and with regional hypoperfusion these processes may account for the mucosal ulcerations observed at the termination of the study.
orthostatic hypotension following right ventricular myocardial infarction corrected with mineralocorticoid therapy. severe hypotension while standing became a problem in a patient after discharge from the hospital following right ventricular myocardial infarction. hemodynamic studies showed that right ventricular systolic function did not maintain adequate left ventricular preload and that the patient did not compensate for cardiac dysfunction by increasing blood volume. volume expansion by mineralocorticoid therapy corrected the orthostatic hypotension and ameliorated symptoms. hypotension eventually resolved and therapy was stopped four months after the myocardial infarction.
enteroclysis and small bowel series: comparison of radiation dose and examination time. respective radiation doses and total examination and fluoroscopy times were compared for 50 patients; 25 underwent enteroclysis and 25 underwent small bowel series with (n = 17) and without (n = 8) an examination of the upper gastrointestinal (gi) tract. for enteroclysis, the mean skin entry radiation dose (12.3 rad [123 mgy]) and mean fluoroscopy time (18.4 minutes) were almost 1 1/2 times greater than those for the small bowel series with examination of the upper gi tract (8.4 rad [84 mgy]; 11.4 minutes) and almost three times greater than those for the small bowel series without upper gi examination (4.6 rad [46 mgy]; 6.3 minutes). however, the mean total examination completion time for enteroclysis (31.2 minutes) was almost half that of the small bowel series without upper gi examination (57.5 minutes) and almost four times shorter than that of the small bowel series with upper gi examination (114 minutes). the higher radiation dose of enteroclysis should be considered along with the short examination time, the age and clinical condition of the patient, and the reported higher accuracy when deciding on the appropriate radiographic examination of the small bowel.
survival of premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. long-term follow-up of eastern cooperative group and cancer and leukemia group b studies. in premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer, differences in survival curves early during follow-up can be misleading. the authors therefore analyzed long-term survival in 378 patients, entered in three randomized trials, started between 1973 and 1978. combined data from the three trials were used to increase the power for identifying prognostic variables. cancer and leukemia group b (calgb) trial 7382 randomized patients to oophorectomy plus either cyclophosphamide or combination chemotherapy or observation. eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog) 2174 randomized patients who had not progressed 3 months after oophorectomy to combination chemotherapy or combination chemotherapy or observation. trial ecog 2177 randomized estrogen receptor (er) positive or er-unknown patients to oophorectomy plus combination chemotherapy or immediate combination chemotherapy, and er-negative patients were directly assigned to combination chemotherapy. hence er-negative patients need not have been healthy enough to be randomized to oophorectomy. with only 14% of the patients still alive, median survival on the three studies was 30, 24, and 28 months. the median survival of individual treatments changed noticeably in ecog 2174 and ecog 2177 with long-term follow-up. at this time there are no differences in survival between randomized regimens in any of the three trials. in a multivariate model, factors associated with significantly poorer survival were visceral-dominant disease, nodal metastases, breast metastases, age younger than 45 years, er negativity, and not receiving chemotherapy immediately after oophorectomy. this treatment difference was thus not due to imbalances in the prognostic variables used in the model, but it may be due to imbalances of unknown prognostic factors or differences in patient selection.
discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs in children who have outgrown epilepsy: effects on cognitive function. cognitive function is frequently impaired in children with epilepsy, compared with age-matched controls. it can be hard to evaluate the significance of various contributory factors. the effects of antiepileptic drugs may be studied in children who have outgrown their epilepsy but are still being treated. a multicenter study to assess various aspects of cognitive function in children with different forms of epilepsy, both during and after treatment with antiepileptic drugs, is currently under way. definitive results are not yet available; interim analysis of the findings suggests that short-term memory is decreased in all subgroups of children being treated for epilepsy, compared to controls.
prospective randomized comparison of intravesical with percutaneous bacillus calmette-guerin versus intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin in superficial bladder cancer. conflicting reports of the necessity for percutaneous bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg) administration with intravesical bcg prompted us to evaluate its benefit in a randomized prospective comparison of intravesical versus intravesical with percutaneous bcg therapy. intravesical tice bcg was given in a dose of 50 mg. with or without percutaneous bcg weekly for 6 weeks, at 8, 10 and 12 weeks, at 6 months and every 6 months thereafter. tumor recurrence was documented in 13 of 30 patients (43%) receiving only intravesical bcg and in 15 of 36 patients (42%) receiving intravesical plus percutaneous bcg. the addition of percutaneous bcg to intravesical therapy did not increase treatment efficacy in this study.
effect of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow, blood, and oral granulocyte counts. this study was designed to elicit the effects of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow production, blood carriage, and oral extravasation of granulocytes, and on the phagocytic activity of those harvested from the mouth. fifteen adult patients with various morphologic forms of acute leukemia were followed through one to four courses of chemotherapy. oral saline rinse samples were obtained thrice weekly and prepared for enumeration in a hemocytometer. the oral granulocyte counts were compared with concurrent counts in the bone marrow and peripheral blood. phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was measured by the method of smith and rommel. the 15 patients were followed through 30 courses of chemotherapy and recovery. during each, there was a drug-induced decrease in marrow, blood, and oral granulocytes that was reversed when therapy was discontinued and bone marrow activity was restored. phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was not perceptibly affected by the antileukemic drugs. oral granulocyte counts provide a noninvasive method for monitoring the onset and recovery of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression and granulocytopenia in patients with leukemia.
the development of neutralizing antibodies in a patient receiving subcutaneous recombinant and natural interleukin-2. systemic administration of interleukin-2 (il-2) in humans may induce antibodies specific to il-2. the case is reported of a patient with metastatic rectal carcinoma who was treated with long-term subcutaneous il-2 and a combination of subcutaneous il-2 and interferon-alpha 2b (ifn-alpha 2b). this patient developed nonneutralizing and neutralizing anti-il-2 antibodies recognizing both the recombinant and natural cytokine. detectable serum levels of neutralizing antibodies were accompanied by the inhibition of immune responsiveness to systemic il-2 in vivo.
prediction of variceal hemorrhage in cirrhosis: a prospective follow-up study. endoscopic, clinical, and laboratory parameters including presence of varices in the gastric fundus, red color sign, diameter and number of variceal columns, platelet count, and the child status were assessed in 109 patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices without previous variceal bleeding. during a mean follow-up period of 21 months, the predictive values of these parameters with regard to first bleeding incidence and mortality rate were studied. the incidence of bleeding was 29%, and the mortality rate 46%. endoscopic criteria (presence of varices in the gastric fundus, presence of the red color sign, and size of the largest varix) as well as alcoholic etiology of cirrhosis showed a significant positive correlation with the bleeding incidence but not with mortality. contrary to this, two factors of the child classification (encephalopathy and ascites) and age positively correlated with mortality but not with the bleeding incidence.
spinal cord hemangioblastoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage. a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a cervical hemangioblastoma is presented. the clinical picture was indistinguishable from that of a subarachnoid hemorrhage from an intracranial lesion. the diagnosis was established by angiography and water-soluble contrast myelography followed by cervical computed tomographic scan. at surgery, the tumor was completely removed, and no neurological deficit was observed after the operation.
relationship between blood pressure, plasma insulin and triglyceride concentration, and insulin action in spontaneous hypertensive and wistar-kyoto rats. previous results have shown that spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) are insulin resistant, hyperinsulinemic, and hypertriglyceridemic as compared to wistar-kyoto rats (wky). since shr rats also have higher blood pressures than wky rats, the current study was initiated in an attempt to evaluate the relationship between the magnitude of blood pressure and the differences in insulin and lipid metabolism seen in shr and wky rats. the experimental variables to be compared were determined in three groups of shr and wky rats, varying in age: group i rats were 6 to 7 weeks of age; group ii rats were 8 to 9 weeks old; whereas group iii rats were 12 to 13 weeks of age. maximal insulin-stimulated glucose transport by adipocytes isolated from shr rats was significantly lower (p less than .005) than isolated adipocytes from wky rats in all three groups, whereas plasma insulin and triglyceride concentrations were significantly higher (p less than .005). blood pressure was also higher in shr than in wky rats within each group. since absolute values for maximal insulin-stimulated glucose uptake did not change statistically as the rats grew older, the magnitude of the decrease in shr rats was similar in each group. the increase in plasma insulin and triglyceride concentration observed in shr rats was also the same in each group, but the absolute values increased with age in both shr and wky rats. however, blood pressure rose significantly with age in shr, but not wky rats, leading to a progressive increase in the degree of hypertension in shr rats. these results support the view that hypertension, per se, does not lead to insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia.
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor synergizes with interleukin-6 in supporting the proliferation of human myeloma cells. the role of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) in the growth of multiple myeloma (mm) was investigated in 21 patients with mm. in 17 patients with proliferating myeloma cells in vivo, recombinant gm-csf significantly increased the endogenous-il-6-mediated spontaneous myeloma cell proliferation occurring in 5-day cultures of tumor cells in vitro (p less than .01). furthermore, gm-csf was detected in 5-day culture supernatants of myeloma bone marrow cells. this endogenous gm-csf was produced by the myeloma bone marrow microenvironment but not by myeloma cells and contributed to the spontaneous myeloma-cell proliferation observed in 5-day cultures. in fact, this proliferation was partially blocked (67%) by anti-gm-csf monoclonal antibodies. the stimulatory effect of rgm-csf was mediated through il-6 because it was abrogated by anti-il-6 monoclonal antibodies. rgm-csf did not reproducibly increase the endogenous il-6 production in short-term cultures of bone marrow cells of mm patients. using an il-6-dependent myeloma cell line (xg-1 cell line), rgm-csf was shown to act directly on myeloma cells stimulating by twofold their il-6 responsiveness. rgm-csf did not induce any il-6 production in xg-1 cells, nor was it able to sustain their growth alone. although no detectable gm-csf levels were found in the peripheral or bone marrow blood of mm patients, it is possible that gm-csf, produced locally by the tumoral environment, enhances the il-6 responsiveness of myeloma cells in vivo in a way similar to that reported here in vitro.
recurrence rate after discontinuation of long-term mebendazole therapy in alveolar echinococcosis (preliminary results). the recurrence rate was investigated in 19 patients with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis after discontinuation of a long-term therapy with mebendazole (average treatment 4.3 years). a control group consisted of 14 patients who underwent radical surgery and finished a course of prophylactic postoperative mebendazole treatment of 2 years. in the controls, no recurrence was observed after a post-therapy period averaging 3.5 years. in contrast, recurrence occurred in 7/19 patients (37%) with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis an average of 1.6 years after discontinuation of the long-term mebendazole therapy. the absence of clinically detectable recurrence in the remaining 12 patients seems to be due either to spontaneous inactivation of alveolar echinococcosis preceding chemotherapy or too short post-therapy surveillance. the patients with recurrence responded favorably to reintroduction of chemotherapy. the data indicate that mebendazole therapy is parasitostatic rather than parasiticidal.
national survey of the pattern of care for carcinoma of the lung. a national survey of the patterns of care for carcinoma of the lung sponsored by the commission on cancer of the american college of surgeons has documented continuing changes in epidemiology, treatment, and outcome. the project consisted of a long-term study of 15,219 patients whose diagnosis was made in 1981 and a short-term study of 19,074 patients whose diagnosis was made in 1986. the male/female incidence ratios have continued to decrease and the decrease has moved into the older age groups. although the percentage of adenocarcinoma is increasing at the expense of squamous carcinoma, the latter is still the most prevalent histologic type. the accuracy of percutaneous needle biopsy and transbronchial biopsy of lung nodules reported from this group of 941 hospitals was high and equal to that reported by single institutions. the percentage of patients having a resection did not increase from 1981 to 1986, but for smaller lesions a move was apparent toward more lung-sparing resections. little change has occurred in the use of adjuvant radiotherapy, particularly in stage iii disease, where approximately 50% of the patients received postoperative irradiation. an improvement in the overall 5-year survival when compared with surveillance, epidemiology, and end results data was noted. whether this is a true improvement in survival or is the result of selection because of an unrecognized change in the pattern of care for patients with a carcinoma of the lung is unknown.
atrioventricular septal defects. analysis of short- and medium-term results. atrioventricular septal defects were repaired in 87 patients from 1981 to 1988. interventricular communications were present in 73 patients, and major associated anomalies were present in 17 (tetralogy of fallot in four, double-outlet right ventricle in two, multiple ventricular septal defects in 11). five deaths occurred in the hospital (5.7%; 70% confidence limits, 3.2% to 9.7%). a preoperative new york heart association class v functional condition was the only incremental risk factor (p = 0.02) for death in the hospital. no patient (0%; 70% confidence limits, 0% to 2.15%) had complete heart block. actuarial survival rate at 80 months was 81.4%. the only incremental risk factor (p = 0.005) leading to reoperation was a preoperative valve incompetence. actuarial rate at 80 months for freedom from reoperation was 84.2% in the overall group of patients after repair of atrioventricular septal defect. we conclude that an improvement in survival and success rates should be found when a policy of earlier repair is followed.
chronic rupture of the achilles tendon: a new technique of repair. a new operative technique is described for the treatment of patients who have a rupture of the achilles tendon. the large gap between the proximal and distal stumps of the achilles tendon in seven patients was bridged by use of the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus as the graft. at the most recent follow-up examination (average follow-up, thirty-nine months; range, two to six years), the result was excellent or good in six patients and fair in one. postoperatively, two patients needed an adjuvant procedure: one, a local rotation flap and the other, a split-thickness skin graft. both patients had excellent restoration of function. the patient who had a fair result had a persistent limp and residual discomfort. there were no re-ruptures.
cardiac arrhythmias in critically ill patients: epidemiologic study the general prevalence of cardiac arrhythmias in 2,820 consecutive patients was 78%, ranging from 44% in multiple trauma patients to 90% in primary cardiovascular patients. patients without recorded arrhythmias (22%, n = 621) were used as control subjects. no clinical group was free from cardiac arrhythmias. atrial tachyarrhythmias had the highest prevalence in the population as a whole (28%) and in all clinical groups except multiple trauma. atrial fibrillation was the most common atrial arrhythmia (52%); ventricular arrhythmias followed. patients with atrial tachyarrhythmias, nodal rhythm ventricular bradyarrhythmias, and ventricular rapid rhythms had significantly (p less than .01) increased mortality rates (40%, 44%, 77%, and 51%, respectively) when compared with patients without arrhythmias (35%). the relative risk of dying (rrd) of these clinical groups was increased by 1.16, 1.27, 2.20, and 1.47, respectively. patients with cardiorespiratory precipitating disease and any arrhythmia except atrial bradyarrhythmia had a mortality rate between 32% and 74%, significantly (p less than .05) different from that of patients within the same clinical groups without arrhythmias. the rrd was increased by 1.67 to 3.40. septic patients with atrial tachyarrhythmia or nodal rhythm and neurologic patients with nodal or ventricular arrhythmias also had significantly (p less than .01 and .05, respectively) increased mortality and were at higher rrd (1.53 to 2.81). our data suggest that severe illness may be present in some clinical groups of critically ill patients with cardiac arrhythmias.
remodeling of myocyte dimensions in hypertrophic and atrophic rat hearts. changes in hemodynamic load cause alterations in cardiac myocyte size, with regional variations in myocyte size distribution possible within the ventricular wall. we studied regional changes in cellular dimensions and their distribution in two models of cardiac hypertrophy and in cardiac atrophy in the rat. combined volume-pressure overload was produced by 3,3',5-triiodo-l-thyronine (t3) treatment; atrophy was produced by heterotopic isotransplantation. our previous data from long-term pressure overload after aortic constriction were used for comparison. isolated ventricular myocytes were obtained after in vitro coronary perfusion with collagenase. cell volume and its distribution were determined; cell length was directly measured by image analysis, and cross-sectional area was estimated from the cell volume/cell length ratio, assuming a cylindrical model. myocyte hypertrophy resulting from hyperthyroidism and aortic constriction was primarily due to increased cross-sectional area. in both cases, the relative response was greater in the right ventricle than in the left ventricle. within the left ventricle, epimyocardial myocytes enlarged the most. aortic constriction and t3 treatment predominantly increased the size of smaller myocytes. heterogeneity in myocyte size increased after constriction but remained relatively unaffected after t3 treatment. atrophy of left ventricular myocytes was due to a proportional decrease in cell length and cross-sectional area, with the greatest decrease in the left ventricular endomyocardium. atrophy predominantly affected larger myocytes, resulting in a more homogeneous overall population of smaller myocytes. we conclude that various alterations in load lead to diverse remodeling in the myocyte population throughout the ventricular wall. in general, smaller myocytes show the highest growth potential, whereas larger myocytes exhibit the highest potential to atrophy.
a critical appraisal of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation in depressed patients. objective: the authors' goal was to evaluate the utility of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation assays in clinical research in psychoimmunology. method: they examined 23 depressed patients and 23 matched comparison subjects with this assay. there were no significant differences between these groups. they then combined the results of this study with the results of their previous study of 20 depressed patients and 20 comparison subjects to examine possible determinants of lymphocyte proliferation in depression. results: depressed patients with lower proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects had lower depression subscale, anergia subscale, and total scores on the brief psychiatric rating scale than did patients with higher proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects. this finding was unexpected and unexplained. depressed patients with lower proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects also had fewer obsessions and compulsions and less psychomotor agitation according to the schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia interview than did patients with higher proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects. stepwise discriminant analysis and cluster analysis contributed little further understanding of the determinants of in vitro lymphocyte proliferation of cells from depressed patients. conclusions: longitudinal studies using multiple serial determinations of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation are the minimal design needed to make this assay useful in further evaluating any immune system changes in depression.
infectious diarrhea. managing a misery that is still worldwide. infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. bacteria, viruses, and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents. treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration. antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only. with the exception of cryptosporidium, for which no effective agent is yet available, all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole.
temporal relation between left ventricular dysfunction and chest pain in coronary artery disease during activities of daily living. forty-three ambulatory patients with angina of increasing frequency underwent continuous monitoring of left ventricular (lv) function for an average of 2.9 +/- 1.9 hours to determine the incidence and temporal sequence of lv dysfunction, st-segment depression and chest pain. indicators of ischemia were: a decrease in ejection fraction greater than 5% lasting greater than 1 minute; horizontal or downsloping st-segment depression of greater than or equal to 1 mm; or onset of the patient's typical chest pain complex, or a combination of these. during the monitoring interval, subjects performed daily activities such as sitting, walking, climbing stairs and eating. in 11 patients, 22 episodes of chest pain or st-segment depression, or both, were observed. eighteen episodes were accompanied by a decrease in ejection fraction (9 patients); chest pain accompanied the decrease in ejection fraction during 13 episodes, whereas st-segment changes occurred during 7. in 12 of 13 episodes the decrease in ejection fraction began earlier than the onset of chest pain, whereas in 1 patient ejection fraction decrease and chest pain onset started at the same time. the average interval from a decrease in ejection fraction to the onset of chest pain was 56 +/- 41 seconds (range 0 to 120). st changes occurred after the onset of a decrease in ejection fraction in 6 of 7 episodes. the average interval from the onset of ejection fraction decrease and the onset of st change was 99 +/- 91 seconds. these data suggest that lv dysfunction manifested by a decrease in ejection fraction is an earlier indicator of myocardial ischemia than is angina pectoris or electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia.
echocardiographic measurement of left ventricular mass and volume in normotensive and hypertensive rats. necropsy validation. although rats are commonly used to study left ventricular (lv) hypertrophy, measurement of lv mass and dimensions has required killing the rat. to determine the accuracy of echocardiography in rats, blinded crossectional area (csa) and lv mass measurements using either the cube function (lvm) or an elliptical model (lvmel) from high resolution m-mode echocardiograms were compared to necropsy lv weight (0.28 to 1.5 g), in 41 normotensive (body weight 116 to 762 g) and 17 hypertensive rats (350 to 560 g). postmortem chamber volumes in 28 normal rats (0.02 to 0.19 ml) were also compared to echocardiographic volumes derived from the elliptical model. correlation with lv weight was r = 0.87 for lvm, 0.90 for csa and 0.93 for lvmel (all p less than .00001). comparison of hypertensive and body-weight-matched normotensive rats revealed the upper normal limit for both lvmel and csa to have 89% sensitivity and 100% specificity for detection of post mortem lv hypertrophy. necropsy lv volumes were more closely related to systolic echocardiographic volumes than to diastolic volumes (r = 0.78 v 0.71, both p less than .00001), compatible with the effects of post mortem contracture. stroke volume determined invasively in 5 wistar rats by thermodilution was similar to that obtained using elliptical model echo volumes in 5 rats of the same body size (0.35 +/- 0.05 v 0.30 +/- 0.06 ml/beat). echocardiography can be used to evaluate lv structure and function in rats and to detect in vivo lv anatomic differences induced by hypertension.
screening for total cholesterol. do the national cholesterol education program's recommendations detect individuals at high risk of coronary heart disease? background. the national cholesterol education program (ncep) has provided guidelines for identification of persons at high risk of coronary heart disease (chd) because of lipid abnormalities. these recommendations are based on total cholesterol as the initial screening tool and have become the stimulus for clinic- and community-based screening programs nationwide. however, the use of the guidelines may be problematic because individuals may have total cholesterol levels in the desirable range but low density lipoprotein (ldl) or high density lipoprotein (hdl) levels considered at high risk. this study evaluates the ability of the ncep screening recommendations to identify correctly persons at high risk of chd because of lipid abnormalities. methods and results. using the ncep guidelines, we simulated a population-based screening program with data from visits 1 and 2 of the lipid research clinics program prevalence study. individuals were considered to be at high risk of chd if they had ldl levels greater than 160 mg/dl or hdl levels less than 35 mg/dl. following the ncep process, 21% of those with high ldl concentrations and 66% of those with low hdl concentrations would not be routinely referred for immediate treatment. overall, 41% of those at high risk of chd would not be promptly evaluated. the sensitivity of the guidelines for promptly identifying individuals with lipoprotein abnormalities is 59%. conclusions. this relatively low sensitivity of total cholesterol as a screening tool should be the impetus for rethinking the screening guidelines. specifically, the cost-benefit ratio of routine screening for lipoproteins, particularly hdl cholesterol, needs to be carefully considered.
the merkel cell and associated neoplasms in the eyelids and periocular region. merkel cells are clear oval cells in the epidermis and outer root sheaths of hair follicles, which are probably of epithelial origin, share ultrastructural features with neuroendocrine cells, and are found in association with touch receptors. in the eyelid, they occur singly in the epidermis and external root sheaths of hairs and eyelashes, and in specialized touch spots alternating with eyelashes. their typical electron microscopical and antigenic features include dense-core granules, intranuclear rodlets, spinous processes, and a positive reaction for specific cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin and synaptophysin. merkel cell carcinoma probably develops from precursor cells which give rise to keratinocytes and merkel cells, and nearly one out of ten merkel cell carcinomas occur in the eyelid and periocular region. they tend to be bulging lesions near the lid margin of elderly patients, reddish in color, and erythematous with telangiectatic vessels. the diagnosis is based on the frequent presence of neurofilaments and paranuclear aggregates of intermediate filaments in addition to features typical of normal merkel cells. the tumor often mimics lymphoma or undifferentiated carcinoma and frequently invades lymphatic vessels. one third of merkel cell carcinomas recur, almost two thirds give rise to regional node metastases, and up to one half metastasize widely and result in death. initial treatment should be prompt and aggressive, with wide resection and routine postoperative irradiation. although metastatic lesions often respond to radiation therapy and cytostatic drugs, these treatments are mainly of palliative value.
sequence and functional expression in xenopus oocytes of a human insulinoma and islet potassium channel. regulation of insulin secretion involves the coordinated control of ion channels in the beta-cell membrane. we have isolated and characterized cdna and genomic clones encoding a voltage-dependent k+ channel isoform expressed in human islets and in a human insulinoma. this k+ channel isoform, designated hpcn1, with a deduced amino acid sequence of 613 residues (mr = 67,097), is related to the shaker family of drosophila k+ channels. hpcn1 is homologous to two other human k+ channel isoforms we have isolated, hpcn2 and hpcn3, with 55% and 65% amino acid sequence identity, respectively. the electrophysiological characteristics of hpcn1 were determined after microinjection of synthetic rna into xenopus oocytes. two-microelectrode voltage-clamp recordings of oocytes injected with hpcn1 rna revealed a voltage-dependent outward k+ current that inactivated slowly with time. outward currents were inhibited by 4-aminopyridine with a ki less than 0.10 mm and were relatively insensitive to tetraethylammonium ion or ba2+. a delayed rectifier k+ channel such as hpcn1 could restore the resting membrane potential of beta cells after depolarization and thereby contribute to the regulation of insulin secretion.
a t-cell neoplasia showing clinicopathologic features of malignant histiocytosis with novel chromosomal abnormalities and n-ras mutation. malignant histiocytosis (mh) is a distinct disease entity defined clinically and morphologically. however, the neoplastic origin of mh is not well established. the authors report a 26-year-old woman who showed the typical clinicopathologic features of so-called mh. cytogenetic and molecular genetic examinations were performed in addition to the morphologic and immunologic approach. the expression of cd2 and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements indicated the t-cell origin of this case. cd30, which is positive for anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ki-1 lymphoma), was not expressed. the cytogenetic study revealed a clonal chromosome abnormality involving 3q25, 6p21, 11p15, and 11q21. an n-ras point mutation within codon 12 (ggt----gct) was also detected. these finding indicate that mh defined clinically and morphologically is not a tumor of true histiocytic origin and that it should be reclassified on the basis of immunologic, cytogenetic, and molecular genetic data.
urinary excretion of bile acid glucosides and glucuronides in extrahepatic cholestasis. recently the formation of bile acid glucosides has been described as a novel conjugation mechanism in vitro and in vivo. in 10 patients with extrahepatic cholestasis caused by carcinoma of the head of the pancreas we investigated excretion rates and profiles of urinary bile acid glucosides. urinary bile acid glucosides and, for comparison, bile acid glucuronides were extracted and characterized according to established methods. in controls total urinary bile acid glucoside excretion was 0.22 +/- 0.03 mumol/24 hr (mean +/- s.e.m.)-in the range of bile acid glucuronide excretion (0.41 +/- 0.06 mumol/24 hr; mean +/- s.e.m.). a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-characterized trihydroxy bile acid glucoside of still-unknown hydroxyl positions accounted for 65% of total urinary bile acid glucosides. in extrahepatic cholestasis total urinary bile acid glucoside excretion was 0.52 +/- 0.13 mumol/24 hr (mean +/- sem), yet significantly lower than bile acid glucuronide excretion (1.53 +/- 0.13 mumol/24 hr; mean +/- sem; p less than 0.001). in cholestasis the primary bile acid derivatives cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid glucosides amounted to 90%, whereas the trihydroxy bile acid glucoside had decreased to 5% of total bile acid glucoside excretion, indicating its alteration during enterohepatic circulation. the data establish the composition and quantity of urinary bile acid glucosides in healthy controls and cholestasis and constitute a quantitative comparison with another glycosidic conjugation reaction, bile acid glucuronidation.
immunoreactivity of anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies to human heart valves. evidence for multiple cross-reactive epitopes. association of group a streptococci with acute rheumatic fever and valvular heart disease is well established; however the basis of valve injury remains unclear. in this study, anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies (mabs) cross-reactive with myocardium were reacted with sections from 22 rheumatic valves, nine normal, five endocarditic, one 'floppy,' and one marfan valve. in immunohistochemical studies, mab reactivity was observed with cardiac myocytes, smooth muscle cells, cell surface and cytoplasm of endothelial cells lining valves, and valvular interstitial cells. endothelial basement membrane and elastin fibrils reacted with the mabs, whereas collagen was unreactive. similar reactivity was seen with sera from acute rheumatic fever patients. the anti-streptococcal mabs reacted with intravalvular myosin and vimentin in western blots, and purified elastin competitively inhibited the binding of the anti-streptococcal mabs to whole group a streptococci. the data show that human heart valves have numerous sites of immunoreactivity with anti-streptococcal mabs and acute rheumatic fever sera of potential importance in the pathogenesis of rheumatic valvular injury.
microcystic adnexal carcinoma following radiotherapy in childhood. a 36-year-old man was treated by radiotherapy for tinea capitis many years before discovery of microcystic adnexal carcinoma (mac). because of patient's refusal of any surgical intervention, we were able to follow the natural course of this tumor for 13 years. this case emphasizes the typical slow development of (mac). the implication of the association of mac and radiotherapy are discussed.
immunohistochemical interpretation of early epithelial disorders of pyriform sinus. expression of cytokeratins (cks) was investigated immunohistochemically by use of monospecific monoclonal anti-ck antibodies in normal epithelia of pyriform sinus and epithelial lesions such as simple hyperplasia, different degrees of dysplasia, in situ carcinoma, and invasive carcinoma. in normal epithelium, strong expression of ck-19 was consistently observed only in the basal layer as basic ck, while expression of ck-13 showed a completely reverse pattern, being expressed only in suprabasal layers as stratification-related ck. characteristic changes in expression pattern of these two cks were observed in accordance with the degree of epithelial disorders and differentiation of carcinoma. cytokeratin 1, as keratinization-associated ck, was observed only in keratinized cells of hyperplastic epithelia and well-differentiated carcinomas. these findings may be useful in evaluating epithelial disorders and classifying carcinomas more objectively, and may assist earlier detection of carcinoma when used with standard histologic techniques.
relation between lipids and atherosclerosis: epidemiologic evidence and clinical implications. coronary artery disease (cad) is the leading cause of death in most developed countries. therefore, elucidation of risk factors and associated mechanisms for cad has been a high priority. data from the framingham heart study and other large-scale epidemiologic studies have identified major risk factors associated with cad, demonstrating the adverse effects of increased total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the protective effect of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. other more recent investigations, including the lipid research clinics trial and the helsinki heart study, have shown that lowering total cholesterol and raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol significantly reduce the risk for cad. because hypertension is also a significant risk factor for cad, the assumption has been that blood pressure reduction should offer significant benefits in terms of cad risk. however, despite their antihypertensive efficacy, diuretics and beta blockers have failed to significantly reduce cad morbidity or mortality. the adverse effects of these antihypertensive agents on lipid profiles, glucose metabolism and other metabolic parameters may account for their disappointing performance in reducing cad morbidity and mortality. as a result, newer agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium antagonists that appear to be free of such adverse effects have garnered considerable attention for their potential to reduce cad risk.
why are autism and the fragile-x syndrome associated? conceptual and methodological issues. investigations of the association between autism and the fragile-x syndrome have yielded conflicting results with some studies indicating a strong correlation and others indicating no relation between the disorders. in this paper, we review the relevant research on this controversy and discuss the conceptual and methodological problems involved in such an inquiry. we conclude that autism and fragile x are associated and that this relation will prove fruitful in understanding the role of the x chromosome in a variety of behavior disorders and in unraveling various theoretical accounts on the etiology of autism.
high-risk reparative surgery. a neglected alternative to heart transplantation. the selection of patients for either high-risk reparative operations on the heart or for transplantation has become increasingly difficult as a result of improved results with both modalities. a retrospective review was done of patients referred for heart transplantation who were not considered candidates for conventional cardiac surgery, yet instead underwent reparative procedures rather than transplantation. of 23 adult patients referred during a 7-year period, 18 had coronary artery disease, and five had valvular heart disease. all had new york heart association class iv symptoms. preoperative left ventricular ejection fractions were in the range 0.08-0.63 (mean, 0.28). ten of 18 patients with coronary artery disease required insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump for hemodynamic support perioperatively. seven patients had primary coronary artery bypass grafts, and 10 had reoperative coronary bypass procedures. one patient had a left ventricular aneurysmectomy, and one had endocardial stripping in addition to myocardial revascularization procedures. of the patients with valvular disease, three had aortic valve replacement, of which two were reoperations, and two others had mitral valve replacements with tricuspid annuloplasties. with a mean follow-up of 25 months, 1-, 3-, 12-, and 24-month actuarial survival rates were 91%, 87%, 82%, and 76%, respectively. one patient who underwent aortic valve replacement in this study successfully received heart transplantation 19 months postoperatively. these results compare favorably with the current results for patients undergoing first-graft heart transplantation. all survivors enjoy new york heart association class i or ii functional capacity.
haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy and sudden infant death in 2 pairs of non-identical twins, haemorrhagic-shock encephalopathy syndrome developed in 1 co-twin while the other died of sudden infant death syndrome. the twin pairs were aged 3 and 4 months, respectively, and no cause was identified. we suggest that stress protein deficiency may underlie both syndromes.
developmental dysmnesia in a poor reader. a 22-yr-old subject with moderate developmental dyslexia experienced poor memory from an early age. in spite of normal intelligence he had great difficulty in learning historical and geographical names, mathematical formulae, poems and songs, and verbal series such as the letters of the alphabet and the months of the year. his recognition of familiar faces was also faulty at times. a battery of memory tests confirmed a moderate deficit of verbal as well as visual memory, whereas spatial memory was preserved. other cognitive functions were intact, except for a mild reading disability. no evidence of brain pathology was provided by his history, neurological examination and ct scanning.
a three-year retrospective study of synovectomies in children. the aim of this study was to evaluate the results of synovectomies in children with juvenile arthritis. five hundred twenty-eight synovectomies and tenosynovectomies were performed over a period of 13 years. the patients were followed for one, two, three, five, and ten years postoperatively. the evaluation after three years was chosen as the basis for this article. one hundred twenty-five children with arthritis who were not evaluated three years postoperatively had less severe arthritis, both locally and generally, than the evaluated group of 389. the rate for good results and tolerability was high at one, two, and three years postoperatively but decreased with time; more patients went from good results to poor rather than vice versa. global assessment, soft-tissue swelling, and limitation of movement seemed to be the best parameters for evaluating the results of synovectomies. it appears necessary to wait at least three years to evaluate the long-term effect of synovectomies.
unsuspected mitral stenosis. purpose and patients and methods: we observed a series of patients in whom the diagnosis of mitral stenosis was first discovered in the echocardiography laboratory. because of this experience, we examined the records of 152 patients with echocardiographic evidence of rheumatic mitral stenosis to determine the clinical characteristics and course of patients with unsuspected mitral stenosis as well as those factors that may have obscured the diagnosis. results: of these 152 patients, 18 had mitral stenosis that was unsuspected clinically until the echocardiogram. these patients were elderly, with a median age of 72 years. they were all referred for echocardiography because of cardiac symptoms. eight patients were referred for evaluation of congestive heart failure. five patients were referred for evaluation of aortic valve disease. three patients were referred because of cerebrovascular accidents and atrial fibrillation. the doppler-determined mean diastolic mitral gradient ranged from 4 to 15 mm hg (mean: 7 mm hg). mitral stenosis ranged in severity from trivial to very severe. eight patients had moderate to severe mitral stenosis with estimated mitral valve areas less than or equal to 1.5 cm2. seven had mild or trivial mitral stenosis with estimated mitral valve areas greater than 1.5 cm2. after further evaluation, two patients underwent mitral valve surgery with improvement of congestive failure. in three patients, warfarin therapy was begun to prevent emboli. thus, five of 18 patients had a significant immediate change in therapy because of the discovery of mitral stenosis. conclusion: the diagnosis of mitral stenosis may not be suspected in the presence of advanced age, other serious cardiac and medical conditions, or mechanical factors that complicate the physical examination. in these patients, mitral stenosis may be hemodynamically significant and may cause significant symptoms.
central nervous system bioaminergic responses to mechanical trauma. an experimental study. changes in biogenic amines in the brain and spinal cord following penetrating injury were studied in male wistar rats using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. rapid increase in hemispheric concentration of these substances was noted beginning shortly after trauma. this trend continued until they were about three to four times control levels by about 24 to 48 hours postinjury. in the spinal cord, however, there was an initial sharp reduction in regional concentrations 2 hours postinjury followed by a slow rise thereafter. by 48 hours postinjury, levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin of the cords of injured animals were still less than those of nontraumatized controls. this variation in the central nervous system bioaminergic response with the level of injury raises questions as to its precise role in neurological damage following mechanical insult.
alteration of platelet serotonin in patients with chronic tension-type headache during cold pressor test. change of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-ht) concentrations in platelets from patients with chronic tension-type headache (th) and controls were observed during cold pressor test (cpt). before cold stimulation, 5-ht concentrations in platelets from patients with th were significantly lower than those found in controls. one minute after the start of cold stimulation, 5-ht levels in platelets from patients with th were significantly much lower than in the controls, as control levels rose and th levels fell. the results show that, under stress, the absorbance of 5-ht into the platelets in patients with th is reduced. it is suggested that, in patients with th, there are abnormalities of 5-ht uptake into platelets and factors which cause release of 5-ht from platelets.
treatment of anorectal abscess with or without primary fistulectomy. results of a prospective randomized trial. to determine whether primary fistulectomy should be performed or not at the time of incision and drainage, a prospective, randomized study in 70 patients with anorectal abscess was conducted. thirty-six patients underwent incision, drainage and fistulectomy with primary partial internal spincterectomy (group i), whereas in 34 patients anorectal abscess was treated by incision and drainage alone (group ii). after a median follow-up of 42.5 months, the combined recurrence or persistence rate was 2.9 percent in group i and 40.6 percent in group ii (p less than 0.0003, log-rank test). recurrent abscesses or persistent fistulas were treated by secondary partial internal sphincterectomy. comparing anal continence before and 1 year after definite treatment, we found increased anal function disturbances in 39.4 percent of the patients in group i and in 21.4 percent of the patients in group ii (p less than 0.106, fisher-exact test). the combined recurrence or persistence rate of 40.6 percent indicates that more than half of the patients with anorectal abscess will have no further problems after simple incision and drainage. this finding, as well as the increased anal function disturbances after partial internal sphincterectomy (either primary or secondary) are the main reasons to reserve fistulectomy as a second stage procedure if necessary.
artificial urinary sphincters around intestinal segments--are they safe? artificial urinary sphincters (aus) were implanted around intestinal segments to achieve urinary continence in 8 patients and faecal continence in 1. in 6 patients the cuff was placed around the lower end of the cystoplasty following bladder neck (5) or urethral (1) erosion. four are completely dry, 1 on self-intermittent catheterisation (sic). one has mild stress incontinence. in 1 patient the cuff eroded at 8 months. two patients had cuffs implanted parastomally to create continent diversion. one is satisfactory on sic and the other had her aus explanted because of life-threatening metabolic acidosis. the rectal cuff was explanted because of faecal impaction above the cuff. as an absolute last resort, placing an aus round a cystoplasty appears little more hazardous than round bladder neck. the use of the aus for continent diversion has not been pursued because of reliable techniques of non-prosthetic continent diversion. the current model of the aus is unsuitable for the treatment of faecal incontinence.
components of delay time in suspected acute myocardial infarction with particular emphasis on patient delay. two hundred and thirty-four patients admitted to a coronary care unit (ccu) were interviewed a few days after arrival in hospital to determine reasons for patient delay and the various components of total delay time from onset of symptoms to arrival in ccu. of the three major components of delay, decision time (time from onset of symptoms to decision to go to hospital), and hospital procedure time (time from arrival in hospital to arrival in the ccu), were of the same magnitude, 1 h 15 min and 1 h 30 min (median), whereas the median time for preparation and transportation to hospital was somewhat shorter, being 45 min. decision time appeared to be similar in patients with confirmed and non-confirmed acute myocardial infarction (ami) and was not associated with intensity of pain or infarct size. half of the patients hesitated to go to hospital, which resulted in a prolonged decision delay (3 h). it is concluded that patient indecision to seek medical help is the most important reason for delay in hospital arrival in patients with suspected ami.
experimental and clinical percutaneous angioscopy experience with dynamic angioplasty. the authors have used ultrathin angioscopes with high optical resolution to assess the effects of dynamic angioplasty in vitro and in vivo. experimentally, angioscopy was used to study the effects of the 5f "kensey" catheter in "normal" porcine coronary arteries (npca) and postmortem human coronary arteries (pmhca). in npca, the catheter keeps a coaxial position. intimal flaps (ifs) were seen in 21/23 npcas. they occurred with all cam rotation speeds and were usually single and small (less than 25% of lumen). perforations in patent arteries were rare (1/23). however, when the catheter was forced against the wall by passing through a narrowing of 5f diameter (made by a band ligature), perforations were more common at higher cam speeds. the epicardium remained intact in two thirds of perforations. angioscopy visualized perforations in only 10% of cases (1/10), the common sign being that of large and multiple intimal flaps, which were often obstructive (5/10). in pmhcas, angioscopy was more sensitive than angiography in detecting atheromatous lesions. the authors were able to give a better assessment of the effect of dynamic angioplasty on treated lesions, including the demonstration of intimal flaps that were not visible on angiography. in vivo, they have performed percutaneous angioscopy before and after dynamic angioplasty using 8 french kensey catheters. angioscopy revealed features that were not shown angiographically.
tamoxifen therapy for painful idiopathic gynecomastia. we have evaluated the efficacy of the antiestrogen tamoxifen in six men with painful idiopathic gynecomastia. subjects were given either tamoxifen or placebo for 2 to 4 months and then were given the other agent for an identical period. breast size was considered to have been reduced only if it had decreased by one or more marshall-tanner stages during the treatment period. pain reduction with tamoxifen therapy was statistically significant for the group, occurring in five of six subjects during tamoxifen treatment and in only one of six during the placebo period. size reduction with tamoxifen was only marginally significant for the entire group, but occurred in all three subjects who were initially in marshall-tanner stage iii and in none of the three subjects who were initially in stage v. during tamoxifen treatment, there was a significant increase in the serum levels of luteinizing hormone and total estradiol and a marginally significant increment in the total testosterone level.
sleep disturbances in survivors of the nazi holocaust. objective and method: sleep disturbances are commonly reported by victims of extraordinary stress and can persist for decades. this study was designed to test the hypothesis that survivors of the nazi holocaust would have significantly more and different sleep problems than depressed and healthy comparison subjects and that the severity of the survivors' problems would be correlated with length of time spent in a concentration camp. forty-two survivors, 37 depressed patients, and 54 healthy subjects of about the same age, all living in the community, described their sleep patterns over the preceding month on the pittsburgh sleep quality index, a self-rating instrument that inquires about quality, latency, duration, efficiency, and disturbances of sleep, use of sleep medication, and daytime dysfunction. results: the survivors had significantly greater sleep impairment than the healthy comparison subjects, as measured by all subscales of the index, but had less impairment than the depressed patients except on the sleep disturbances and daytime dysfunction subscales. however, for specific items within these subscales, survivors had significantly more frequent awakenings due to bad dreams and had less loss of enthusiasm than the depressed subjects. sleep disturbances and frequency of nightmares were significantly and positively correlated with the duration of the survivors' internment in concentration camps. conclusions: these findings suggest that for some holocaust survivors, impaired sleep and frequent nightmares are considerable problems even 45 years after liberation.
preferential localization of human adherent lymphokine-activated killer cells in tumor microcirculation. the efficacy of adoptive immunotherapy for solid tumors with lymphokine-activated effector cells presumably depends on the ability of these cells to localize adequately in tumor tissues. we present here the first quantitative study of the in vivo movement of fluorescently labeled adherent lymphokine-activated killer (a-lak) cells. these cells were injected intra-arterially along with low-dose interleukin-2 into normal (mature granulation) tissue and an implant of vx2 carcinoma grown in the rabbit ear chamber. a small proportion of a-lak cells accumulated preferentially in the tumor microcirculation in vivo because of an increased frequency of long-term adhesive interactions with the tumor vasculature. stasis of blood flow in the tumor vasculature was observed 1 to 2 days after injection. subsequent necrosis of the tumors was observed, along with diffuse infiltrates of lymphocytes, monocytes, and granulocytes in the interstitial space within the tumor. development of necrosis despite low ratios of effector cells to target cells suggests that in addition to direct cytotoxicity, the response to adoptive immunotherapy is mediated via the tumor vasculature. this novel mechanism for adoptive immunotherapy must be taken into account in the development of improved strategies for cancer treatment.
higher incidence of carpal tunnel syndrome in oophorectomized women. to determine whether the hormonal changes of the menopause are related to the onset of carpal tunnel syndrome (cts), 53 healthy women, younger than 44 years, and subjected to bilateral oophorectomy between 1 and 4 years before the study, were evaluated. seventy healthy menstruating women matched for age were used as controls. in those complaining of symptoms and presenting signs suggestive of cts, sensory and motor nerve conduction studies were done. in the oophorectomized group, 17 of 53 (32%) had clinical cts, while only seven of 70 of the control group (10%) did so (relative risk for the oophorectomized group = 4.25; 95% confidence intervals 1.47 and 12.61). the nerve conduction studies were abnormal in 14 of 16 oophorectomized women (87.5%), and in only one of seven of the control group (14.2%; p less than 0.002). symptoms tended to be milder in the controls. symptoms developed in the first year after oophorectomy in 14 of the 17 women with cts. this suggests that women develop cts after oophorectomy more frequently than controls.
the emergence of hepatitis b as a sexually transmitted disease. in the united states, approximately 300,000 cases of hepatitis b virus infection occur annually, and heterosexual activity is one of the most commonly reported risk factors for acquiring disease. until the number of infections transmitted through heterosexual contact can be reduced through hepatitis b vaccination, there is little chance of controlling this infection.
transient ischaemic attacks in young patients: a thromboembolic or migrainous manifestation? a 10 year follow up study of 46 patients. forty six patients aged 18-39 years with transient ischaemic attacks (tia) were studied; two thirds were women. twenty five patients had attacks accompanied by headache, and seven gave a history of common migraine. only four of 27 angiograms were abnormal; no operable carotid lesion was demonstrated. over a mean follow up period of 10 years stroke or myocardial infarction (ami) occurred in all four patients who presented major cerebrovascular risk factors, but in only two of the remaining 42 patients. thus irrespective of age thromboembolic tia is a harbinger of stroke or ami. however, most tias under the age of 40 years are caused by a non-embolic benign vascular disorder. the clinical characteristics, long-term prognosis, and possible pathogenesis, for such attacks are often indistinguishable from those of classical migraine. in the absence of cardiovascular risk factors, arteriography does not provide much diagnostic and prognostic information.
hospitalization and the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. the influences of age and education. the study investigated the relationship between length of hospitalization and increasing cognitive deficit in schizophrenics. using halstead-reitan battery data obtained from 245 schizophrenic patients, multiple regression analyses were performed using age, education, and length of hospitalization as independent variables and various summary test indices as dependent variables. these analyses showed that there was not a statistically significant change in percentage of explained variance when length of hospitalization was entered into the multiple regression equations. on the basis of these analyses, it was concluded that the association between increasing deficit and length of hospitalization experienced by schizophrenic patients is no greater than what would be anticipated on the basis of aging.
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells. we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor (achr) and to purified protein derivative (ppd) (of tuberculin) of hyperplastic thymus, thymoma, and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis (mg). hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells, whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend. thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus. furthermore, there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd (but not to achr), arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells. by contrast, both achr- and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients, which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells. cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd. however, the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above. our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere.
complications of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap in head and neck reconstruction. a retrospective review of the complications in 211 patients undergoing pectoralis major myocutaneous flap reconstruction is presented. the flap was used for mucosal lining of the oral cavity or oropharynx in 109 patients, for pharyngoesophageal reconstruction in 44, for skin coverage in 47, and for other locations in 14 patients. flap-related complications developed in 63% of the patients. these included flap necrosis, suture line dehiscence, fistula formation, infection, and hematoma. analysis of risk factors for the development of flap complications showed the following factors to be significant: age over 70; female gender; nomographic overweight; albumin less than 4 g/dl; use of the flap in reconstruction of the oral cavity after major glossectomy; and presence of other systemic diseases. the median length of hospitalization for those developing complications was 33 days compared with 16 days for those who did not develop any complications. thirty-five (26%) of the 135 patients developing complications required reoperation and only 2 among these required a second flap. similarly, only 13 of the 61 patients who developed fistulas required surgical closure.
evidence for gastric mucosal cell invasion by c. pylori: an ultrastructural study. it is now generally accepted that campylobacter pylori is closely associated with peptic ulcer disease and chronic type b gastritis. whether c. pylori is the direct etiologic cause of either or both of these illnesses remains unclear. possible pathophysiologic effects of c. pylori are still a matter of debate and conjecture. utilizing a small group of patients with gastric ulcers and chronic gastritis, we examined the ultrastructural relationship between c. pylori and gastric cells. forty-eight percent of our gastric ulcer patients and 57% of our chronic gastritis patients had c. pylori in their lower corpus mucosa. examination with the transmission electron microscope indicated a very close proximation by c. pylori to the surface epithelial cells strongly suggesting adherence. we also describe for the first time the invasion of gastric cells by c. pylori. although an uncommon occurrence, we had repeated observations of c. pylori invading surface epithelial cells, parietal cells, and chief cells. most of the intracellular c. pylori were intact but other forms appearing to be degenerating organisms were also seen. we suggest that cell invasion may be one mechanism by which c. pylori causes pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. these observations may also explain why c. pylori chronically infects gastric cells and frequently recurs after treatment.
silicone pouch for protection of automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads. automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator has become routine treatment for recurrent, drug-resistant ventricular tachycardia. although there is documentation regarding clinical experience and device performance, there is little information on how to avoid complications related to the retrieval of sensing and defibrillation leads from the subcutaneous space. we are reporting our experience with a silicone pouch for protection of automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads that allows immediate and simple retrieval of the leads in case an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator generator is needed.
effects of two types of fish oil supplements on serum lipids and plasma phospholipid fatty acids in coronary artery disease. fish oil has consistently been shown to lower triglyceride levels, but its effects on low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol remain controversial. the current study compares the long-term effects of 2 different fish oil preparations (ethyl ester and triglyceride) versus olive oil in patients with coronary artery disease. eighty-nine subjects were randomly assigned to receive capsules containing 6 g/day (triglyceride group) or 7 g/day (ethyl ester group) of n-3 fatty acids, or capsules containing 12 g/day of olive oil for 6 months. mean triglyceride levels decreased by 28% in the ester and 32% in the triglyceride fish oil groups (p less than 0.05 for both). ldl cholesterol levels increased by 3% (difference not significant) in the ester and 12% (p less than 0.05) in the triglyceride fish oil groups; in hypertriglyceridemic subjects the increase was 23% (p less than 0.01) and 14% (difference not significant), respectively. plasma phospholipid fatty acid analysis showed a fivefold increase in eicosapentaenoic acid levels in both fish oil groups (p less than 0.001), and a long-term decrease in arachidonic acid levels (p less than 0.001). achieved eicosapentaenoic acid level correlated with the degree of increase in ldl cholesterol (r = 0.38, p less than 0.05). these data suggest that fish oil administration is associated with an increase in ldl cholesterol levels in a diverse group of patients with coronary artery disease; this change appears to be correlated with n-3 fatty acid absorption. the impact of this increase in ldl is unknown, but should be considered as potentially adverse.
severe mitral insufficiency post-balloon valvuloplasty: the late changes found in a disrupted mitral valve. the case of a 45-yr-old woman who had balloon valvuloplasty for rheumatic mitral stenosis is presented. an anterior mitral leaflet tear occurred as a complication of the procedure. both partial healing of the anterior mitral leaflet and gradual dilatation of the left atrium occurred which allowed the damaged valve to remain in situ for several months. some of the late changes which occur after such a complicated valvuloplasty are illustrated here, as this patient eventually required surgery and valve excision for definitive repair.
hereditary ovarian cancer. heterogeneity in age at diagnosis. an unknown fraction of the ovarian cancer burden occurs in women with a family history indicative of a putative autosomal dominantly inherited cancer susceptibility syndrome. the results from a five-generation, extended, hereditary breast-ovarian cancer kindred are described 10 years after it was initially ascertained. significantly more cancers were observed in high-risk family members during this decade than were expected (p less than 0.001). the age of ovarian cancer diagnosis was studied in additional ovarian cancer-prone families of three types: site-specific ovarian cancer syndrome, the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome, and lynch syndrome ii. the age of onset in each of the three sets was significantly (p less than 0.001) earlier than the general population mean of 59, and there were significant differences in the age of onset (p = 0.050) among these three cohorts. ovarian cancer histology was similar to that of patients with negative family histories. there may be clinically significant heterogeneity in the age at diagnosis of ovarian cancer among these ovarian cancer-prone syndromes. this has important implications for understanding its natural history and targeting surveillance-management strategies.
bilateral sudden deafness and acute acquired toxoplasmosis. an 18-year-old woman, while suffering from acute acquired toxoplasmosis, experienced sudden deafness and a total loss of vestibular function first in the right ear and three months later also in the left. following treatment with sulphadiazine and pyrimethamine, hearing was retrieved to such a degree that the patient was enabled to communicate by means of a body-worn hearing aid and lip-reading. taking the differential diagnostic possibilities into account, we believe that toxoplasmosis was the cause of the severe hearing loss. since effective treatment seems to be available, we recommend that patients with acute bilateral sensorineural hearing loss of unknown origin are examined for acute toxoplasmosis with a view to instituting chemotherapy.
a study of htlv-i and its associated risk factors in trinidad and tobago. seroprevalence of human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-i) among a sample of persons selected from a government register of businesses in trinidad was 3.2% in 1,025 persons of african descent compared to 0.2% among 487 persons of asian descent and 0% among 46 persons of european-descent. in tobago, from a coastal village, among persons of african ancestry ascertained as part of a cardiovascular survey, the rate was 11.4%, which was significantly higher when corrected for age and race than the rate in trinidad. the seroprevalence rate of antibodies to hepatitis a and b was also significantly elevated in tobago compared to trinidad. htlv-i seroprevalence rates were higher in females than males while hepatitis a and b rates were not significantly different in the two sexes. for males, age was a significant determinant of htlv-i seropositivity, while for females, age, markers of poor sanitation, and hepatitis b were each independently linked to htlv-i seropositivity. the frequent occurrence of multiple infectious exposures in persons of lower socioeconomic circumstances in this tropical environment may result in immune activation that heightens susceptibility to htlv-i infection.
detection of patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during sinus rhythm by p wave-triggered signal-averaged electrocardiogram. to determine whether patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could be detected while in sinus rhythm, the signal-averaged electrocardiogram triggered by p waves was recorded in 42 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (paf group) and in 50 control patients. the root mean square voltages (lp10, lp20, and lp30) for the last 10, 20, and 30 msec and the duration (ad) of filtered (40-300 hz) p wave of the spatial magnitude were measured. lp10 and lp20 were significantly lower in the paf than in the control group (lp10, 1.92 +/- 0.58 versus 2.49 +/- 0.78 microv, p less than 0.001; lp20, 2.47 +/- 0.78 versus 3.46 +/- 1.20 microv, p less than 0.0001), although no significant difference in lp30 was found between groups. ad was also significantly longer in the paf than in the control group (137.0 +/- 14.3 versus 118.6 +/- 11.3 msec, p less than 0.001). these differences between the paf and control groups remained significant even after dividing by the presence or absence of organic heart diseases. the criteria of "lp20 = 3.5 microv or less" and "ad greater than 120 msec" as defining "atrial late potential" gave a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 76%. these findings suggest that patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could be detected while in sinus rhythm by using the p wave-triggered signal-averaged electrocardiogram.
angiographic progression to total coronary occlusion in hyperlipidemic patients after acute myocardial infarction. posch group. the progression of coronary artery stenosis to total occlusion was assessed in 413 hyperlipidemic patients with a previous myocardial infarction. coronary angiograms were recorded at baseline, 3 (n = 312), and 5 years (n = 248) after initial study and analyzed by 2 independent readers. there were 177 (43%) patients with 1-, 130 (31%) with 2-, and 61 (15%) with 3-vessel disease (greater than or equal to 50% diameter narrowing), whereas 45 (11%) did not have significant disease within a major coronary vessel at baseline. a new finding of total occlusion occurred in 4% (30 of 748) and 7% (40 of 605) of major coronary artery segments at 3 and 5 years, respectively. the risk of progression to total occlusion was higher if the initial stenosis was greater than 60% compared to lesions less than or equal to 60% both at 3 years (19 of 143 = 13% vs 11 of 605 = 2%; p less than 0.001) and 5 years (27 of 91 = 30% vs 13 of 514 = 3%; p less than 0.001). the frequency of occlusion was highest for the right coronary artery by 5 years (18 of 167 = 11% for right vs 8 of 225 = 4% for circumflex vs 14 of 213 = 7% for left anterior descending coronary arteries; p less than 0.02). clinical and laboratory data revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with a new total occlusion in 23% of patients (7 of 30) at 3 years and in 64% (25 of 39) at 5 years.
prospective observations of 100 high-risk neonates by high-field (1.5 tesla) magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system. ii. lesions associated with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. one hundred neonates determined prospectively to be at risk for neurologic handicap underwent magnetic resonance imaging with a high-field (1.5 t) imager. thirty-three demonstrated a total of 37 lesions consistent with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, including periventricular leukomalacia (n = 12), basal ganglia hemorrhage (n = 5), multicystic encephalomalacia (n = 5), and focal parenchymal hemorrhage (n = 15). diagnoses by ultrasonography and computed tomography were compared with those by magnetic resonance imaging in 29 and 17 infants, respectively. ultrasonography agreed more frequently with magnetic resonance imaging than did computed tomography. ultrasonography detected 79% of lesions demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging whereas computed tomography detected only 41%. periventricular leukomalacia was seen most often in preterm infants, basal ganglia hemorrhage and multicystic encephalomalacia primarily occurred in term infants, and focal parenchymal hemorrhage occurred at all gestational ages. basal ganglia hemorrhage and multicystic encephalomalacia were strongly associated with histories of perinatal asphyxia, seizures, and early abnormal neurological status. all infants with basal ganglia hemorrhage (5/5) and multicystic encephalomalacia (5/5) and the majority with periventricular leukomalacia (9/12) and focal parenchymal hemorrhages (9/15) had developmental abnormalities at discharge.
detection and typing of human papillomavirus using the vira type "in situ" kit: comparison with a conventional dot blot technique. a new commercial kit (vira type "in situ", life technologies, inc., molecular diagnostics division, guithersburg, maryland, usa) for the detection of human papillomavirus (hpv) types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33 and 35 in routinely processed human anogenital tissue was compared with a conventional dot blot assay for hpv 6, 11, 16 and 18. both systems use double-stranded genomic dna probes for the detection of type specific hpv dna. the probes used on the dot blots were labelled with 32p and visualised autoradiographically. the vira type probes were labelled with biotin and visualised using a streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate with nbt-bcip substrate. biopsy specimens from the cervix, vagina, and vulva of 46 women were processed by both methods and compared. the histological diagnoses ranged from benign changes, to dysplasia, and invasive carcinoma. overall, 50% of biopsy specimens were positive for hpv dna by dot blot hybridisation; only 39% were positive by vira type in situ hybridisation. three of the specimens positive by the vira type "in situ" kit showed no cross hybridisation and were the same hpv type as the dot blot. a further 13 showed hybridisation, but the showed cross hybridisation, but the to the dot blot results. one biopsy specimen was positive for different hpv types by the two tests and one was positive by vira type and negative by dot blot. six biopsy specimens were negative by vira type but positive by dot blot. it is concluded that the vira type "in situ" kit has a similar specificity but lower sensitivity than the dot blot hybridisation method for the detection of hpv dna.
experience with the sarns centrifugal pump as a ventricular assist device. the authors used the sarns centrifugal pump (sarns 3m, ann arbor, mi) as a ventricular assist device (vad) in 30 patients between may 1985 and february 1990. sixteen patients were unweanable from cardiopulmonary bypass at the time of surgery; nine were patients who developed cardiogenic shock postoperatively in the intensive care unit. one was a donor organ failure; one had a failed ptca; and one an acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock preoperatively. two patients were bridged to cardiac transplantation. of the 28 nontransplant candidates, 20 (71.4%) were weaned successfully, 14 (50%) were discharged from the hospital, and 13 (46%) are alive from 1 to 46 months postoperatively (mean, 21.1 months). three patients received right ventricular support alone; all three were weaned, and two (66.7%) were discharged. ten patients received left ventricular assistance alone. six (60%) were weaned, and four (40%) were discharged. two patients received left ventricular support initially but were taken back for right vad insertion because of right-sided heart failure; one (50%) is alive. fifteen patients received biventricular support. eleven (77.3%) were weaned, and eight (53.3%) were discharged. patient ages ranged from 19 to 73 years, with a mean age for men of 59 years and 50.5 years for women. there were no thromboembolic events. various clinical parameters were evaluated to determine effect on weanability and survival. these results show survival equivalent to any other vad at this time. the centrifugal pump is a convenient and effective means of maintaining ventricular support in individuals who are believed to have salvageable myocardium.
percutaneous nephrolithotomy and the solitary kidney. we reviewed 53 patients with stones in a solitary kidney who had undergone percutaneous nephrolithotomy. previous surgery on that kidney had been performed in 35.8%, and 50.9% had other medical conditions including 26.4% who had impaired renal function. staghorn or partial staghorn calculi were present in 52.9% and an additional 18.8% had multiple stones. postoperative complications in 18.8% of the patients included sepsis, the need for transfusion and 1 death of bronchopneumonia. percutaneous nephrolithotomy alone resulted in a 77.3% rate free of stone or fragments of 2 mm, or less. this rate increased to 86.8% with the addition of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, ureteroscopy or open surgery (2 patients). only 1 patient suffered long-term deterioration in renal function. percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a safe procedure in the solitary kidney. it should be considered in those patients with complex stone burdens and impaired renal function when reduction in stone bulk and improved renal function may allow other treatment modalities to be used.
influence of hepatitis delta virus replication in the presence of hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. the presence of hepatitis b virus dna was studied in peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 259 hbsag carriers (229 anti-hepatitis delta negative, 30 anti-hepatitis delta positive), 16 anti-hbc-positive hbsag-negative patients and 30 patients without hepatitis b virus markers. hepatitis b virus dna sequences were detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 115 (44.4%) of the chronic hbsag carriers and from two (12%) of the anti-hbc-positive, hbsag-negative patients. in anti-hepatitis delta-negative patients, viral dna was positive in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 74 (46%) and from 24 (35.5%) with and without serum hbv-dna, respectively. with respect to anti-hepatitis delta-positive patients, viral dna was found in peripheral blood mononuclear cell in 8 of 13 (61.5%) of the patients with circulating hepatitis delta virus rna and in 9 of 17 (53%) of the hepatitis delta virus rna-negative subjects. regarding hepatitis b virus dna in serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cell, 71% (5 of 7) of the patients with serum hepatitis b virus dna had this marker in peripheral blood mononuclear cell, whereas 52% (12 of 23) of the patients without serum hepatitis b virus dna had hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell. a southern blot analysis was also carried out on peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 30 patients. hepatitis b virus dna was detected in 16 patients as free forms, in 12 patients as dimers and free forms and as free circular together with free linear forms in the remaining two patients.
new chemotherapies for ovarian cancer. systemic and intraperitoneal podophyllotoxins. the epipodophyllotoxin derivatives etoposide and teniposide have been evaluated intermittently for possible use in the treatment of ovarian cancer. conflicting studies suggest that variables such as dose and prior treatment have a major influence on outcome. response rates ranged from 0% to 40% in five series with teniposide, and from less than a 10% overall response rate to greater than a 10% complete response rate in nine studies with etoposide. one study documented activity with oral etoposide. however, because all patients had received various prior chemotherapies, firm conclusions regarding the activity of etoposide could not be drawn. these results, and the expectation of synergy with etoposide and cisplatin, led to several studies that combined etoposide with platin compounds by the systemic and intraperitoneal (ip) routes. various studies have used intravenous drug combinations of these agents in both previously treated and untreated patients. one study, which used carboplatin instead of cisplatin, reported only seven failures among 26 previously untreated patients. conversely, the prominent toxicities reported by another study were discouraging, and responses did not exceed what might be expected from cisplatin alone. studies of analogous combinations administered ip are ongoing. a favorable experience, which was initially reported by the university of california (san diego group), is being confirmed by other investigators. this has prompted the incorporation of etoposide into first-line strategies. the pharmacologic advantage of etoposide by the ip route (related to its high protein binding) may provide appropriate dose intensity against ip disease while sparing systemic toxicities. finally, systemic dose intensity with autologous bone marrow support indicates some promise for etoposide in combination with high-dose alkylating drugs.
value of electrophysiologic studies in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treated with amiodarone. the relation of electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone to long-term outcome was studied in 35 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc). indications for electrophysiologic studies were: cardiac arrest (n = 3), syncope/presyncope (n = 27) and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia (vt) (n = 5). twenty-eight patients (80%) had vt, 3 (9%) atrial tachycardia and 3 (9%) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 24-hour holter monitoring. the studies were repeated after a total amiodarone dose of 58 +/- 122 g and during a maintenance median daily dose of 400 mg. amiodarone abolished paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias in all 6 patients. however, it caused marked atrioventricular nodal conduction abnormality in 3 patients and heart block or marked hv interval prolongation (to greater than or equal to 100 ms) in 4 patients. sustained vt was induced in 26 patients (74%) at baseline study and in 23 patients (66%) taking amiodarone therapy. with amiodarone, vt was no longer inducible or was more difficult to induce in 11 patients (31%), and the drug abolished vt during holter monitoring in all patients. however, vt was easier to induce with amiodarone or was induced only with amiodarone in 18 (51%) patients. amiodarone significantly slowed the rate of induced vt (from 248 +/- 29 to 214 +/- 37 beats/min, p less than 0.001). this was associated with a change in its morphology from polymorphic to monomorphic vt in 7 patients. during a follow up of 18 +/- 14 months (range 2 to 56), amiodarone was discontinued because of adverse effects in 8 patients (23%).
papanicolaou smear cell recovery techniques used by primary care physicians. nine hundred tennessee-based internists, family physicians, and obstetrician-gynecologists were randomly selected and surveyed to identify papanicolaou smear cell recovery methods used in their practices. this 16-item survey also requested typical laboratory reporting procedures on papanicolaous smears. the most frequently reported cell sampling technique was the combination cotton-tipped applicator and spatula, which was used by 47 percent of all physicians. use of the cervical cytobrush for papanicolaou smears, which has been shown to improve the detection of cervical dysplasia, was used alone or in combination by 19 percent of those surveyed, of whom 72 percent were gynecologists. cervical sampling should contain cells from the transformation zone as evidenced by an adequate number of endocervical cells on the smear. laboratories reporting the presence of endocervical cells were significantly different (p less than 0.05) among the specialties, with 26 percent of the internists', 18 percent of the family physicians', and 15 percent of the obstetricians' laboratories not providing this information in their reports. reporting inadequate smears is a necessary first step toward improved sampling technique. without this information, physicians risk missing pathology through reports of false-negative papanicolaou smears.
mutational hotspot in the p53 gene in human hepatocellular carcinomas human hepatocellular carcinomas (hcc) from patients in qidong, an area of high incidence in china, in which both hepatitis b virus and aflatoxin b1 are risk factors, were analysed for mutations in p53, a putative tumour-suppressor gene. eight of the 16 hcc had a point mutation at the third base position of codon 249. the g----t transversion in seven hcc dna samples and the g----c transversion in the other hcc are consistent with mutations caused by aflatoxin b1 in mutagenesis experiments. no mutations were found in exons 5,6,8 or the remainder of exon 7. these results contrast with p53 mutations previously reported in carcinomas and sarcomas of human lung, colon, oesophagus and breast; these are primarily scattered over four of the five evolutionarily conserved domains, which include codon 249 (refs 4-9). we suggest that the mutant p53 protein may be responsible for a selective clonal expansion of hepatocytes during carcinogenesis.
effect of nisoldipine on hemodynamic responses to defibrillation. sequences of ventricular fibrillation-defibrillation cause transient hypertension; we hypothesized that this "adrenergic overshoot" might be blunted by the functional antiadrenergic effect of the calcium channel blocking drug nisoldipine, with a potentially beneficial reduction in myocardial oxygen requirements. however, other calcium channel blocking drugs have been shown to reduce shock success for defibrillation, a deleterious effect. thus the purposes of this study were to assess the effect of nisoldipine on the hemodynamic responses to the sequences of ventricular fibrillation-defibrillation, and its effect on the energy requirements for defibrillation. in 16 dogs we administered intravenous nisoldipine (1 microgram/kg bolus followed by an infusion of 0.075 to 0.50 microgram/kg/min) to lower mean blood pressure 10% and 20% below baseline. ventricular fibrillation was induced electrically, and shocks of varying energy levels (30, 50, and 100 joules) were administered to determine defibrillation energy requirements. heart rates and blood pressures were recorded up to 3 minutes after each shock to determine hemodynamic responses. measurements were made before nisoldipine administration and again at the two levels of drug-induced blood pressure decline. we found that the usual systolic blood pressure "overshoot" after defibrillation (typically maximum at 15 to 30 seconds after shocks) was significantly blunted after nisoldipine administration (p less than 0.05). heart rate slowing after defibrillation (a cholinergic response) was not affected. nisoldipine did not alter shock success rates, which varied from 12 +/- 7%se at 30 joules to 68 +/- 12% at 100 joules. thus nisoldipine blunted the "adrenergic overshoot" of systolic blood pressure following defibrillation, a potentially beneficial effect, without altering the energy requirements for transthoracic defibrillation.
scleroderma and central nervous system vasculitis. we describe a patient with scleroderma (crest syndrome) and central nervous system vasculitis. while angiography demonstrated segmental symmetrical arterial narrowing characteristic of vasculitis, results of leptomeningeal biopsy were normal. there was no evidence of systemic vasculitis, renal failure, or malignant hypertension previously thought to be required to explain central nervous system dysfunction in patients with scleroderma. signs and symptoms attributable to vasculitis were reversible with aggressive immunosuppressive therapy.
kinetic abnormalities of the red blood cell sodium-proton exchange in hypertensive patients. the present study was designed to examine the kinetics of na(+)-h+ exchange in red blood cells of normotensive and hypertensive subjects and its relation to the previously reported abnormalities in na(+)-li+ exchange. the na(+)-h+ antiporter activation kinetics were studied by varying cell ph and measuring net na+ influx (mmol/l cell x hr = units) driven by an outward h+ gradient. the na(+)-li+ exchange was determined at ph 7.4 as sodium-stimulated li+ efflux. untreated hypertensive patients (n = 30) had a higher maximal rate of na(+)-li+ exchange (0.43 +/- 0.05 versus 0.26 +/- 0.02 units, p less than 0.0003), a higher maximal rate of na(+)-h+ exchange (62.3 +/- 6.2 versus 47 +/- 4 units; p less than 0.02), but a similar affinity for cell ph compared with normotensive subjects (n = 46). the cell ph activation of the na(+)-h+ antiporter exhibited a lower hill coefficient than that of normotensive subjects (1.61 +/- 0.12 versus 2.56 +/- 0.14; p less than 0.0001). this index of occupancy of internal h+ regulatory sites was found reduced in most of the hypertensive patients (73%) whether their hypertension was untreated or treated. hypertensive patients with na(+)-li+ exchange above 0.35 units (0.68 +/- 0.057 units, n = 16) did not exhibit elevated maximal rates of na(+)-h+ exchange (57.3 +/- 10 units, ns) in comparison with those with na(+)-li+ exchange below 0.35 units (66.4 +/- 7.6 units, n = 26), but both groups exhibited reduced hill coefficients. hypertensive patients with enhanced na(+)-h+ exchange activity (more than 90 units) had normal maximal rates of na(+)-li+ exchange.
psychological characteristics of children with shwachman syndrome. twelve children and young adults with shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability, motor skills, and behaviour. there were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with shwachman syndrome and the other two groups. four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range. the differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant, though those with shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores. there was no evidence that those with shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects. we suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth.
plasma vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentration determination in patients with diarrhea. determination of plasma levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (vip) has been used for screening patients with chronic diarrhea to identify potential neuroendocrine tumors. this 6-year blinded study from 1981 to 1986 examines the causes of elevated vip levels in patients. in healthy volunteers ( n = 144), vip concentrations ranged from 14 to 76 pg/ml (mean +/- se, 28 +/- 12), whereas in chronic renal failure, 4 of 34 patients or 12% [serum creatinine 4.5 - 9.0 mg/dl (397-795 mumols/l)] had an elevation to greater than 100 pg/ml. no patient with idiopathic hepatic cirrhosis (n = 12) had elevation of serum concentration of this peptide. among 588 consecutive unselected patients undergoing evaluation for chronic diarrhea (n = 362; 62%) or possible neuroendocrine tumor (n = 214; 36%), 23 patients (3.9%) had concentrations greater than 76 pg/ml. in this group, 5 patients had functioning (vip, 160-5975 pg/ml) and 5 had nonfunctioning (vip, 80-120 pg/ml) pancreatic islet cell carcinomas: all 10 patients had hepatic metastases. other known cases of elevated levels of vip, ranging from 80 to 340 pg/ml, included other neurogenic tumors (n = 3), small- bowel resection (n = 2), inflammatory bowel disease (n = 2), chronic renal failure (n = 1), and prolonged fasting (n = 1). patients with diarrhea in which vip-secreting tumors were identified had plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide concentrations greater than 140 pg/ml. in patients with chronic diarrhea, determination of plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide levels did identify tumors secreting this peptide, but the results from this referral institution did not show identification of these tumors early in their clinical course.
endothelialization of vascular prostheses by transplantation of venous tissue fragments. a method to accelerate the endothelialization of vascular prostheses by seeding venous tissue fragments was developed. a piece of peripheral vein was obtained, chopped into small fragments, and stirred into 20 ml of saline, making a tissue suspension. this suspension was sieved through the wall of a highly porous vascular prosthesis (water porosity: 3,600-4,000). the prostheses, (7 mm id and 5.7 cm in length) seeded with tissue fragments, were implanted into the thoracic descending aortae of 20 dogs, and were removed from 1 to 371 days after implantation. ten prostheses, preclotted with fresh blood, were used as controls. in the seeded grafts, an infinite number of endothelial cells migrated and proliferated from the fragments. these had produced numerous capillaries by 5 days after implantation that had reached and opened onto the luminal surface of the prosthesis. from these openings, numerous endothelial cells spread out and formed colonies. with the increase in the size of the colonies, the inner surface was completely endothelialized within 5 weeks. this quick neointimal formation by seeding venous tissue fragments might be applicable to several artificial organs.
ki-67 immunostaining in uveal melanoma. the effect of pre-enucleation radiotherapy. the reactivity of 33 choroidal and ciliary body melanomas with monoclonal antibody ki-67, which recognizes a proliferation associated nuclear antigen, has been assessed and compared with clinicopathologic parameters. in 23 cases, 8 gy irradiation was given 2 days before enucleation. nonirradiated melanomas had a significantly higher proliferation rate as defined by staining with monoclonal antibody ki-67 as compared with irradiated tumors (p = 0.007). similarly, a strong relationship was found between pre-enucleation irradiation and low mitotic activity (p = 0.001). there was no significant correlation between the presence of ki-67-positive nuclei and histologic classification, largest tumor diameter, localization of the tumor, age, sex, scleral invasion, pigmentation, and lymphocytic infiltration. the relevance of ki-67 immunohistochemistry for the assessment of the life prognosis of patients with uveal melanoma has to be studied prospectively.
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin for variceal bleeding. emergency control and prevention of early variceal rebleeding. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin was conducted among 120 patients admitted for bleeding esophageal varices (59 placebo, 61 somatostatin). an initial 250-micrograms bolus of somatostatin followed by a 5-day continuous infusion of 250 micrograms/h and an identical administration of placebo were evaluated for both the control of bleeding and prevention of early rebleeding from varices. failure to control bleeding occurred in 22 (36%) somatostatin patients vs. 35 (59%) placebo patients, with time to failure occurring earlier with placebo (p = 0.036). blood and plasma transfused per hour during drug infusion of trial drug was reduced in the somatostatin group: median 0.033 vs. 0.105 unit/h (p = 0.025). use of balloon tamponade was halved in somatostatin-treated patients. the average effect of somatostatin was a 41% reduction in the hazard of failure (95% confidence interval, -1% to 65%, p = 0.0545) after adjustment for the severity of liver disease, which was the only other variable having a significant influence on time to failure. there was no difference in 30-day mortality per admission (7 placebo, 9 somatostatin) or complications. it is concluded that somatostatin is safe and more effective than placebo for the control of variceal bleeding.
traumatic vulvar hematomas. assessing and treating nonobstetric patients. management of the vast majority of vulvar hematomas is conservative. most resolve spontaneously when simple measures are taken. serial examinations are necessary to distinguish uncomplicated hematomas from those requiring surgery. the clinician must also be vigilant for the possibility of sexual abuse and respond with appropriate workup and referral if this situation is suspected.
prospective observations of 100 high-risk neonates by high-field (1.5 tesla) magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system: i. intraventricular and extracerebral lesions. the results of observations of the first 100 neonates at the university of texas health science center (houston) who received magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system by means of a high-field image (1.5 t) are reported. all were assessed prospectively to be at risk neurodevelopmental delay. this first report specifically addresses the appearance of primarily hemorrhagic intracranial lesions, including intraventricular hemorrhage (n = 28), and extracerebral lesions, which include 3 cases of venous sinus thrombosis (n = 20). the signal intensities of hemorrhage underwent a characteristic evolution with time with only minor variations in the study group. magnetic resonance imaging detected direct evidence of hemorrhage for up to 2 months, but hemosiderin was detected as a late indicator of hemorrhage for up to 9 months. magnetic resonance imaging was equal in benefit to head ultrasonography and computed tomography for the diagnosis of intraventricular hemorrhage, but magnetic resonance imaging was also able to approximate the time of onset of hemorrhage. magnetic resonance imaging was superior for the evaluation of extracerebral hemorrhage; ultrasonography failed to detect any of these lesions and computed tomography detected only 3 of 7. short-term neurological abnormality was assessed, but the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to predict long-term neurodevelopmental delay is unknown and is the subject of an ongoing project.
screening for neuroblastoma at 3 weeks of age: methods and preliminary results from the quebec neuroblastoma screening project. a large neuroblastoma screening study was recently started in the province of quebec, canada. this project, a collaboration between the quebec network for genetic medicine and the university of minnesota, is studying the impact of screening infants for the preclinical detection of neuroblastoma on the population-based mortality caused by this tumor. all infants born in quebec during a 5-year period will be screened twice, at 3 weeks and at 6 months. urinary homovanillic acid and vanillylmandelic acid determination from dried filter paper samples is used for screening. initial qualitative screening is done by means of thin-layer chromatography with confirmatory quantitative screening by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (gc-ms). during the initial 6 months of 3-week screening, 41,673 neonates (92% compliance rate) were screened and 10.6% of them were tested also by gc-ms. nine of these neonates had positive results on two gc-ms tests and were referred for evaluation to rule out the presence of neuroblastoma. four had the tumor, 1 had a calcified adrenal gland, and 4 had no tumor detected. three additional neonates had clinical diagnosis of neuroblastoma before they reached the screening age of 3 weeks. a neuroblastoma that did not secrete homovanillic acid or vanillylmandelic acid was diagnosed clinically in 1 additional patient who tested negative by screening.
relationship of atherosclerosis in young men to serum lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations and smoking. a preliminary report from the pathobiological determinants of atherosclerosis in youth (pday) research group investigators in eight communities collected aortas, right coronary arteries, blood, and associated information from 390 males, 15 to 34 years of age, who died of violent causes. pathologists at central laboratories graded the arteries for atherosclerotic lesions, and serum lipoprotein cholesterol and thiocyanate concentrations were measured. the percentage of intimal surface involved with atherosclerotic lesions in both the aorta and the right coronary artery was positively associated with serum very low-density lipoprotein + low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration and negatively associated with serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. the serum thiocyanate concentration, a marker for smoking, was strongly associated with prevalence of raised lesions, particularly in the abdominal aorta. the effect of smoking was not explained by lipoprotein levels. blacks had more extensive total surface involvement of the aorta after adjustment for lipoprotein cholesterol levels and smoking. these associations indicate that serum lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations and smoking are important determinants of the early stages of atherosclerosis in adolescents and young adults.
diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. clinical importance, surgical treatment, and follow-up study. a diffuse sclerosing variant is not very rare among papillary carcinomas of the thyroid when the patients are female and younger than 30 years of age. the variant is characterized by diffuse involvement of one or both thyroid lobes, with dense sclerosis, patchy lymphocytic infiltration, and abundant psammoma bodies. controversy still exists concerning its prognosis. we reviewed our experience with 14 patients treated between 1958 and 1988. all patients were young females, their age being from 10 to 28 years with a mean of 19.6. hashimoto's thyroiditis had been suspected in nine patients before they came to our clinic. nowadays the diagnosis of this cancer is possible when we have this entity in mind and detect abundant psammoma bodies either by ultrasonography or by soft-tissue roentgenography of the neck. total thyroidectomy with modified neck dissection was carried out in eight patients, subtotal thyroidectomy with neck dissection in five, and lobectomy with neck dissection in one. all of them are alive and well without distant metastasis at a mean follow-up of 16 years. because most of the patients with this variant of papillary carcinoma are young women and the prognosis is favorable, a complete resection without causing later recurrence, but also cosmetic and complication-free surgery, should be considered.
antibiotic compared with antiseptic prophylaxis for prostatic surgery. two different regimens of cephalosporin antibiotic prophylaxis were compared with antiseptic lubricating jelly to try to prevent infection and complications in 196 men after prostatic surgery. pre-operative urine was cultured and prostatic chips (170 cases) were also cultured to define the source of any infection. the use of antibiotics was associated with a reduced risk of postoperative bacteriuria. no serious complications occurred, although 1 patient in the antiseptic treated group developed rigors; 79 of 170 patients (46%) had positive prostatic chip cultures, of whom 74 had sterile pre-operative urine. there was no association between the result of chip culture and the presence of a pre-operative catheter. culture positive patients had an increased risk of post-operative urine infection, although the same organism was found in the prostate and urine in only 36% of cases of post-operative bacteriuria and in 43 (54%) the organism cultured from the prostate was staphylococcus albus. this study provides further evidence of the benefit of true prophylactic antibiotic therapy for transurethral prostatic surgery and the prostatic chip data suggest that some of the risk is due to pre-operative contamination of the prostate in the absence of per-operative urinary infection or catheterisation.
experience with the use of coronary autoperfusion catheter during complicated angioplasty. between february and july of 1989, 22 patients underwent the use of the stack autoperfusion catheter following acute occlusion or obstructive dissection during coronary angioplasty; in 20 cases conventional balloon was used in an attempt to correct the angiographic appearance followed by the use of stack catheter when results were sub-optimal. only 1 patient (4.5%) required surgical revascularization. although our study is not prospective or randomized, our observations suggest a significant impact in decreasing the need for emergency surgical revascularization after complicated coronary angioplasty with the use of this approach.
reversal of cardiac and vascular hypertrophy by antihypertensive therapy. cardiovascular hypertrophy, such as left ventricular hypertrophy, and arteriolar hypertrophic changes are common in established hypertension. left ventricular hypertrophy, in particular, markedly increases the risk of cardiovascular complications and death. the ability of an antihypertensive agent to reverse hypertrophic changes could, therefore, be greatly advantageous. clinical studies with beta-blockers have shown them able to substantially reduce left ventricular hypertrophy. for reversal of arteriolar hypertrophy, vasodilatory beta-blockers have been shown to be preferable to ordinary beta-blockers, possibly because vasodilation reduces vascular smooth-muscle tone, which may facilitate reversal of hypertrophy. theoretically, a vasodilatory beta-blocker, such as celiprolol, would therefore appear to offer advantages because of its ability to reverse left ventricular and arteriolar hypertrophy in addition to its antihypertensive action. the practical and clinical effects of cardiovascular hypertrophy reversal remain to be fully evaluated; however, it is logical to assume that they would be of considerable benefit to the hypertensive patient.
is routine preoperative hemodynamic evaluation of nonagenarians necessary? an incidence of co-morbid cardiac disease in the elderly surgical patient as high as 66% has been previously reported. even in the absence of clinically significant cardiac disease, advanced age alone is often considered sufficient indication for swan-ganz placement, hemodynamic evaluation, adjustment of fluid states, and inotropic support. yet data clearly documenting the need for this evaluation and therapy are difficult to obtain. all major general surgical and orthopedic operations in non-agenarians were reviewed in our institution from july 1, 1987 through december 31, 1988. fifty-one procedures were performed on 46 patients. none of these patients had preoperative swan-ganz catheterization or hemodynamic evaluation. eighteen general surgical, 30 orthopedic, 2 neurosurgical, and 1 gynecological procedures were performed. forty-three were performed under general anesthesia, 7 under spinal anesthesia, and 1 with local anesthesia. seven out of 51 patients (14%) experienced major complications, and 16 out of 51 (31%) experienced minor complications. thirty-day mortality was 0%, and 6-month survival was 92%. only one complication occurred within 48 hours of surgery that might possibly have been prevented with hemodynamic evaluation, adjustment of fluid status, inotropic support, and intensive care unit monitoring.
ige receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis and exocytosis from rat basophilic leukemia cells are independent of extracellular ca2+ in a hypotonic buffer containing a high concentration of k+. in isotonic buffer, ige receptor-mediated exocytosis from rat basophilic leukemia cells is dependent on extracellular ca2+, with half-maximal degranulation requiring 0.4 mm ca2+. no significant exocytosis occurs in the absence of extracellular ca2+. this absolute requirement for ca2+ is eliminated by suspending the cells in a hypotonic buffer containing 60 to 80 mm k+; na+ cannot substitute for k+. optimal ca2(+)-independent exocytosis occurs in a buffer containing 20 mm dipotassium pipes, ph 7.1, 40 mm kcl, 5 mm glucose, 7 mm mg acetate, 0.1% bsa, and 1 mm egta. the cells maintain this ca2(+)-independent exocytosis even if they are preincubated with 1 mm egta for 40 min at 37 degrees c before triggering. exocytosis is eliminated as isotonicity is approached by adding sucrose, nacl, kcl, or potassium glutamate to the buffer. quin 2 fluorescence measurements reveal only a very small rise in [ca2+]i when the cells are triggered in hypotonic buffer in the absence of extracellular ca2+ and the presence of 1 mm egta. in isotonic buffer, degranulation does not occur under conditions that lead to such a small rise in [ca2+]i. sustained ige receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis, which is also ca2+ dependent in isotonic buffer, becomes independent of ca2+ in the hypotonic buffer. in fact, the rate of phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis in hypotonic buffer in the absence of ca2+ (and presence of 1 mm egta) is twice that observed in isotonic buffer in the presence of 1 mm ca2+. these data show that in hypotonic buffer, the requirement of ige receptor-mediated pi hydrolysis for extracellular ca2+ is eliminated, and degranulation proceeds with a [ca2+]i of 0.1 microm, the baseline level of [ca2+]i found in resting cells. these results are consistent with the hypothesis that, in isotonic buffer, the ca2+ requirement for mast cell degranulation is for the generation of second messengers via hydrolysis of membrane phosphatidylinositols.
transforming growth factor beta stimulates mammary adenocarcinoma cell invasion and metastatic potential. the experimental metastatic potential of 13762nf mammary adenocarcinoma clone mtln3 was tested after pretreatment in serum-free medium containing transforming growth factor (tgf) beta 1 at 0-5000 pg/ml. lung colonies were measured 2 weeks after inoculation in syngeneic f344 rats, and a bell-shaped dose-response curve with 2- to 3-fold increase in number of surface lung metastases was seen. maximal enhancement occurred at the 50 pg/ml dose level. the effect was specific because addition of neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody blocked the stimulatory activity at all levels of tgf-beta 1 pretreatment, but when antibody was given alone, neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody had no effect on untreated cells. increased metastatic potential appears to be from an increased propensity of cells to extravasate as tested in the membrane invasion culture system. mtln3 cells penetrated reconstituted basement-membrane barriers 2- to 3.5-fold more than did untreated control cells, depending upon length of tgf-beta 1 exposure. increased invasive potential is apparently due, in part, to a 2- to 6-fold increase in type iv collagenolytic (gelatinolytic) and a 2.4-fold increase in heparanase activity. tgf-beta 1 treatment of mtln3 cells did not alter their growth rate or morphology in the presence of serum; however, growth was inhibited in serum-free medium. likewise, adhesion to human umbilical vein endothelial cell monolayers or to immobilized reconstituted basement membrane or fibronectin matrices was unchanged. these results suggest that tgf-beta 1 may modulate metastatic potential of mammary tumor cells by controlling their ability to break down and penetrate basement-membrane barriers.
congestive heart failure, coronary events and atherothrombotic brain infarction in elderly blacks and whites with systemic hypertension and with and without echocardiographic and electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. hypertension was present in 50% of 196 blacks and in 36% of 382 whites (p less than 0.001). a prospective study of 84 elderly blacks (70% women) and 326 elderly whites (73% women) with hypertension correlated echocardiographic and electrocardiographic left ventricular (lv) hypertrophy with incidences of congestive heart failure (chf), coronary events and atherothrombotic brain infarction (abi). echocardiographic lv hypertrophy (p less than 0.02) and concentric lv hypertrophy (p less than 0.001) were more prevalent in hypertensive blacks than in hypertensive whites. hypertensive blacks were younger (78 +/- 9 years) than hypertensive whites (82 +/- 7 years) (p less than 0.001). other coronary risk factors were similar, except for higher serum triglycerides in whites than in blacks (p less than 0.02). follow-up was 37 +/- 18 months in blacks and 43 +/- 18 months in whites (p less than 0.01). incidences of chf and coronary events were not significantly different in blacks and whites. abi incidence was 38% in blacks and 21% in whites (p less than 0.005). multiple logistic regression analysis showed that prior chf (p = 0.000), concentric lv hypertrophy (p = 0.018) and echocardiographic lv hypertrophy (p = 0.022) were independent risk factors for chf. echocardiographic lv hypertrophy (p = 0.001), serum total cholesterol (p = 0.002), concentric lv hypertrophy (p = 0.005) and prior coronary artery disease (p = 0.042) were independent risk factors for coronary events. prior abi (p = 0.001), echocardiographic lv hypertrophy (p = 0.001) and electrocardiographic lv hypertrophy (p = 0.034) were independent risk factors for abi.
immune response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to hbx-antigen of hepatitis b virus. the hepatitis b virus genome encodes a transcriptional transactivator protein designated hbxag. we have investigated whether this antigen is a target structure for human t-lymphocytes. using recombinant hbxag protein, we found hbxag-specific stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with acute hepatitis b virus infection (6 of 6) and chronic hepatitis b virus infection (6 of 17) but not in healthy individuals. with hbxag-specific synthetic polypeptides, several t-cell epitopes were identified. most were located in the carboxyterminal half of the hbxag protein. five t-cell clones specific for a t-cell epitope located at the carboxyterminal region of hbxag were established and found to belong to the cd2/cd4-positive, cd8-negative subtype. these data establish for the first time hbxag as an antigen in the cellular immune response.
treatment of recurrent ischemia after thrombolysis and successful reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction: effect on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function. to determine the effect of treatment of recurrent ischemia after reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function recovery and to identify patients at highest risk of serious consequences in the event of recurrent ischemia in this setting, 405 consecutively treated patients were studied retrospectively. all patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy within 6 h of st segment elevation-documented infarction and had angiographic confirmation of their reperfusion status performed within 120 min of treatment. three hundred three patients had successful reperfusion with or without rescue angioplasty and had no recurrent ischemia (group 1), 74 patients had initially successful reperfusion but subsequent recurrent ischemia (group 2) and 28 patients had failed reperfusion (group 3). the in-hospital mortality in groups 1 to 3 was 2.0%, 14.9% and 32.1%, respectively (p less than 0.001) and the change from baseline to prehospital discharge left ventricular ejection fraction was 1.2 +/- 9.3%, -0.8 +/- 8.7% and -4.3 +/- 5.3%, respectively (p = ns). within the recurrent ischemia group (group 2), multiple regression analysis found absence of cardiogenic shock at presentation (p = 0.002) and successful treatment initiated within 90 min of recurrent ischemia (p = 0.045) to be the only variables independently correlated with in-hospital survival. later successful reperfusion was not associated with improved hospital survival. the timing and success of treatment did not affect recovery of global or regional left ventricular function in the patients with paired angiographic studies.
lymphomatous polyneuropathy. biopsy of clinically involved nerve and successful treatment. we present a patient with large-cell lymphoma in remission who, over several weeks, developed widespread multifocal polyneuropathy. there was involvement of all four limbs, most severely the left upper extremity that had become useless. biopsy of the left saphenous nerve within an area of sensory loss showed lymphoma in the endoneurium. there was no other evidence of recurrent lymphoma despite extensive investigation, including bone marrow, lumbar puncture, magnetic resonance imaging of the spine, and computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis. intensive systemic chemotherapy was accompanied by nearly complete recovery. biopsy of a symptomatic nerve is preferable to routine sural nerve biopsy in this condition because of its patchy distribution. treatment with systematic chemotherapy can be effective.
the analysis of erythrocyte morphologic characteristics in urine using a hematologic flow cytometer and microscopic methods. three methods for the examination of erythrocyte morphology in urine are described: phase contrast microscopy, microscopy of cytocentrifuged and stained preparations, and erythrocyte analysis with the technicon h1. analysis with the h1 has not been described until now. all methods can be used to discriminate between dysmorphic and isomorphic erythrocytes. the red cell distribution width was the best h1 parameter for this discrimination. the authors have found a good correlation between the microscopic methods. the clinical impact of the three methods was studied with urine samples from patients with a confirmed diagnosis. the discrimination between renal and nonrenal hematuria is similar with phase contrast microscopy and cytocentrifuged preparations. the use of the h1 for this discrimination is not recommended.
coronary arterial remodeling studied by high-frequency epicardial echocardiography: an early compensatory mechanism in patients with obstructive coronary atherosclerosis. coronary arterial remodeling is a compensatory mechanism that may limit the adverse effects of coronary obstructive lesions by expansion of the entire vascular segment. to determine if this compensatory anatomic change occurs in patients, high-frequency epicardial echocardiography using a 12 mhz transducer was performed during open heart surgery in 33 patients (10 with normal coronary arteries undergoing valvular surgery and 23 with coronary atherosclerosis). from stop-frame videotape high-frequency epicardial echocardiographic images, cross-sectional measurements of luminal area and total arterial area (lumen, intima, media and dense adventitia) were made in the patients with atherosclerosis at the site of arterial lesions and from the most proximal portion of the same artery. remodeling was defined as enlargement of the total arterial area. in normal arteries measurements were made from proximal and midarterial locations. in the patients with normal coronary arteries, total arterial area, as determined by high-frequency echocardiography, decreased from the proximal site to the midportion of the artery (from 10.4 +/- 0.9 to 8.4 +/- 1.0 mm2, p less than 0.05); luminal area also decreased (from 6.0 +/- 0.6 to 4.5 +/- 0.7 mm2, p less than 0.05). in patients with coronary arterial lesions, luminal area also decreased from the proximal site to the arterial lesion site (from 5.3 +/- 0.6 to 2.3 +/- 0.3 mm2, p less than 0.05), but total arterial area increased (from 11.6 +/- 1.0 to 13.0 +/- 1.0 mm2, p less than 0.05). of the 25 coronary arteries evaluated, only 4 had angiographic evidence of coronary collateral formation. these data indicate that coronary arterial remodeling is an important compensatory mechanism in obstructive coronary disease.
gynecologic cancer in patients with subacute cerebellar degeneration predicted by anti-purkinje cell antibodies and limited in metastatic volume. between 1982 and 1989, 19 patients with gynecologic carcinoma, paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, and seropositivity for anti-purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies were identified at our institution. seven of the patients had no clinical, computed tomographic, or magnetic resonance imaging evidence of cancer but had undergone laparotomy solely because anti-purkinje cell antibodies were found in their serum; all had high-grade adenocarcinoma. cerebellar symptoms preceded or coincided with the initial cancer diagnosis in 15 patients and preceded the diagnosis of recurrent cancer in 4 patients. the cancers were 14 ovarian, 2 fallopian tube, 2 surface papillary, and 1 poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in a periaortic lymph node. two remarkable surgical observations in patients with high-grade ovarian and tubal cancers were the conspicuous lack of peritoneal implants and the small metastatic volume. a comparison of the 8 patients who had primary stage iii cancer with 24 matched control patients without paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration revealed no difference in primary tumor volume but a significantly smaller volume of metastatic tumor in the seropositive group (p = 0.05). anti-purkinje cell antibodies were not detected in 111 neurologically normal patients with advanced ovarian cancer. the small metastatic volume in the face of high-grade and advanced stage malignancy in seropositive patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration suggests that an immune response to the tumor (presumably cross-reactive with cerebellar cells) may impair the metastatic process. earlier diagnosis and treatment of cancer, based on prompt serologic testing, may offer an improved neurologic and oncologic prognosis.
identification and preliminary characterization of protein-cysteine farnesyltransferase. ras proteins must be isoprenylated at a conserved cysteine residue near the carboxyl terminus (cys-186 in mammalian ras p21 proteins) in order to exert their biological activity. previous studies indicate that an intermediate in the mevalonate pathway, most likely farnesyl pyrophosphate, is the donor of this isoprenyl group. inhibition of mevalonate synthesis reverts the abnormal phenotypes induced by the mutant ras2val-19 gene in saccharomyces cerevisiae and blocks the maturation of xenopus oocytes induced by an oncogenic ras p21 protein of human origin. these results have raised the possibility of using inhibitors of the mevalonate pathway to block the transforming properties of ras oncogenes. unfortunately, mevalonate is a precursor of various end products essential to mammalian cells, such as dolichols, ubiquinones, heme a, and cholesterol. in this study, we describe an enzymatic activity(ies) capable of catalyzing the farnesylation of unprocessed ras p21 proteins in vitro at the correct (cys-186) residue. this farnesylating activity is heat-labile, requires mg2+ or mn2+ ions, is linear with time and with enzyme concentration, and is present in all mammalian cell lines and tissues tested. gel filtration analysis of a partially purified preparation of protein farnesyltransferase revealed two peaks of activity at 250-350 kda and 80-130 kda. availability of an in vitro protein farnesyltransferase assay should be useful in screening for potential inhibitors of ras oncogene function that will not interfere with other aspects of the mevalonate pathway.
the value of preoperative estimation of haemoglobin in children undergoing tonsillectomy. preoperative estimation of haemoglobin in children undergoing tonsillectomy is routinely practised in most centres. to assess the value of this investigation the haemoglobin of 250 consecutive children undergoing tonsillectomy was estimated. two children were clinically found anaemic preoperatively, and this was confirmed on blood testing. since the prevalence of anaemia is low, it is proposed that the practice of routine preoperative estimation of haemoglobin is unnecessary, traumatic and expensive, and therefore requires reconsideration.
oxygen free radicals in acute pancreatitis of the rat. this study aimed to assess the role of oxygen free radicals in acute pancreatitis. acute pancreatitis was induced in rats by infusion of the cck-analogue cerulein (5 micrograms/kg per hour) for 30 minutes, 3.5 hours, and 12 hours. after the infusion, serum enzymes and conjugated tissue dienes and malondialdehyde were measured and tissue samples were subjected to electron and light microscopy. electron microscopy after 30 minutes showed moderate intracellular alterations. after 3.5 hours of cerulein infusion interstitial oedema and intravascular margination of granulocytes in the pancreatic gland were seen. after 12 hours histological evaluation showed pronounced zymogen degranulation, extensive tissue necrosis, and migration of granulocytes into the tissue. amylase and lipase activities increased 15 and 35-fold respectively during this time. after 30 minutes of cerulein infusion conjugated dienes and malondialdehyde increased, they reached their peak after 3.5 hours and decreased to normal values after 12 hours. treatment with superoxide dismutase (100,000 u/kg/hour) and catalase (400,000 u/kg/hour) either before or after the start of the cerulein infusion prevented lipid peroxidation and reduced zymogen degranulation and tissue necrosis. tissue oedema and inflammatory response, however, were not affected in any of the treated rats. oxygen free radicals are instrumental in the development of acute pancreatitis. even after its onset, scavenger treatment reduced the tissue damage normally observed.
respiratory epithelium in a cystic choristoma of the limbus. a female newborn had a cystic, whitish gray mass at the inferotemporal limbus of the left eye. at age 3 weeks, the newborn underwent excision of the tumor, corneal patch grafting, and superior sector optical iridectomy. histopathologic and electron microscopic examination of the excised tissue revealed a choristoma consisting of cysts lined with respiratory epithelium. to our knowledge, respiratory epithelium in a limbal choristoma has not been previously reported.
the effect of muscle-sparing versus standard posterolateral thoracotomy on pulmonary function, muscle strength, and postoperative pain. increased interest in alternative approaches to thoracotomy has developed because of the considerable morbidity associated with the standard posterolateral technique. we conducted a prospective, randomized, blinded study of 50 consecutive patients to compare postoperative pain, pulmonary function, shoulder strength, and range of shoulder motion between the standard posterolateral and the muscle sparing thoracotomy techniques. pulmonary function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced vital capacity), shoulder strength, and range of motion were measured preoperatively and at 1 week and 1 month postoperatively. pain was quantitated by postoperative narcotic requirements, the visual analogue scale, and the mcgill pain questionnaire. morbidity, mortality, and hospital stay were compared between the standard posterolateral and muscle-sparing techniques. there were no differences in postoperative pulmonary function, shoulder range of motion, extent of lung resection, surgical approach time, mortality, or hospital stay. there was significantly less postoperative pain in the muscle-sparing group. the narcotic requirement was less in the first 24 hours (p = 0.0169), and visual analogue scale scores were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) throughout the first postoperative week. shoulder girdle strength was decreased at 1 week in the standard incision group whereas the strength was preserved with the muscle-sparing approach. muscle strength had returned to preoperative levels by 1 month in both groups. morbidity was identical in the two groups with the exception of postoperative seromas. the prevalence of seroma was 23% in the muscle-sparing group and 0% in the standard incision group (p = 0.0125). we have demonstrated that the muscle-sparing incision may be a reasonable alternative to the standard posterolateral approach.
neuro-ocular lyme borreliosis. any patient who has a bell's palsy (unilateral or bilateral), aseptic meningitis, chronic fatigue syndrome, atypical radiculoneuropathy, presenile dementia, atypical myopathy, or symptoms of atypical rheumatoid arthritis should be asked specifically about the following: visits to highly endemic areas, any known tick bites, any skin lesion suggestive of erythema migrans, any history of palpitations or of prior bell's palsy, aching in joints (especially the knees), paresthesias, chronic fatigue and depression, forgetfulness, and eye problems. any patient showing a chronic iritis with posterior synechiae, vitritis in one or both eyes, an atypical pars planitis-like syndrome, big blind spot syndrome, and swollen or hyperemic optic discs should be asked the same questions. the physician should send one red-top tube of blood containing 2 to 3 ml serum to microbiology reference laboratory, 10703 progress way, cypress, ca 90630-4714, requesting a lyme/treponemal panel. for $90 the patient will receive an rpr test with titer, serum fta-abs test, serum lyme ifa igg and igm, and a serum lyme elisa test. if these tests are within normal limits and the physician is still suspicious, a western blot can be ordered on serum. a green top tube with fresh white blood cells sent out by overnight express on a monday or tuesday will produce a lyme pcr and a lymphocyte stimulation test. finally, r.k. porschen, director of mrl laboratory, will provide information on the urine antigen test on an investigational basis. a careful history with emphasis on the specific questions noted above, a complete neuro-ophthalmological and physical examination ruling out other causative problems, and the laboratory studies here discussed will usually provide sufficient data to choose therapy. much further active research into lyme borreliosis is an important priority in medicine.
evaluation of postprandial hyperemia in superior mesenteric artery and portal vein in healthy and cirrhotic humans: an operator-blind echo-doppler study. in an operator-blind design, we used an echo-doppler duplex system to examine superior mesenteric artery and portal vein hemodynamics on two consecutive mornings in 12 fasting cirrhotic patients and 12 matched controls, randomized to a standardized 355 kcal mixed-liquid meal vs. water. cross-sectional area and mean velocity were recorded from the portal vein and superior mesenteric artery at 30 min intervals, from 0 min to 150 min after ingestion. flows were calculated. pulsatility index, an index related to vascular resistance, was obtained for the mesenteric artery. baseline flows did not differ between cirrhotic patients and control patients, but pulsatility index was reduced in the cirrhotic subjects. maximal postprandial hyperemia was attained at 30 min. cirrhotic patients showed a blunted hyperemic response to food. in normal controls, portal vein area increased significantly after the meal from 30 min to 150 min, whereas in cirrhotic patients a significant difference occurred only at 30 min. pulsatility index in both groups was significantly reduced after eating, and this reduction persisted up to 150 min. no changes after ingestion of water were observed. echo-doppler was very sensitive in detecting postprandial splanchnic hemodynamic changes and differences between cirrhotic patients and normal subjects. mesenteric artery pulsatility index was more sensitive than flow in detecting baseline hemodynamic differences. in cirrhotic patients, portal postprandial hyperemia was mainly related to the increase in mean velocity.
clentiazem reduces infarct size in rabbit middle cerebral artery occlusion. we assessed the value of pretreatment with clentiazem (8-chlorodiltiazem), a diltiazem derivative with cerebroselective properties, on the consequences of surgical occlusion of the middle cerebral artery via a transorbital approach in 38 rabbits. nineteen rabbits received 1.7 (n = 5), 5 (n = 8), or 15 (n = 6) mg/kg clentiazem orally four times a day for 24 hours before and 48 hours after occlusion. upon sacrifice, a segment of the right middle cerebral artery distal to the occlusion and a corresponding segment from the nonoccluded left middle cerebral artery were mounted on myographs for in vitro study of their reactivity to histamine, acetylcholine, serotonin, norepinephrine, and electrical stimulation of intramural sympathetic nerves. morphometric measurements of 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride-stained brain slices permitted us to estimate infarct volume. pretreatment with 1.7, 5, and 15 mg/kg clentiazem significantly reduced infarct volume (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01, and p less than 0.01, respectively). mean infarct volume of the 15 mg/kg-treated group was only 4% that of the untreated group. there were no postoperative deaths in any treated group compared with a death rate of 36% in the untreated group. mean values for vascular smooth muscle contractility to histamine and relaxation to acetylcholine were significantly enhanced in vessels from treated rabbits. these studies indicate that pretreatment with clentiazem offers cerebral protection and significantly reduces infarct volume as well as arterial wall damage beyond the occlusion.
the entrainment of low frequency breathing periodicity. it has been predicted by mathematical models of the respiratory control system that the delay between the lung and the respiratory controller may determine the cycle time found in periodic breathing. we examined cycle time of periodic breathing and circulation time in 11 patients known to have circulation delay due to heart failure. we did not find a significant relationship between the amount of periodic breathing and circulation delay, but found a very high correlation between circulation delay and the cycle time of periodic breathing (r2 = 0.825; p = 0.0001).
final outcome of ursodeoxycholic acid treatment in 126 patients with radiolucent gallstones. one hundred and twenty-six patients with radiolucent gallstones in 'functioning' gallbladders were treated with 8-10 mg ursodeoxycholic acid (udca) kg/day and followed to a treatment conclusion. complete or partial gallstone dissolution was achieved in 74 (59 per cent). however, only 22 achieved complete gallstone dissolution, as judged by two normal oral cholecystograms; ultrasonograms were performed in 16 of these patients, and all were normal. udca was stopped in 76 patients: because of cystic duct obstruction (n = 12), severe biliary pain (n = 13), non-response (n = 25) or partial stone dissolution with arrested progress (n = 26). life-table analysis showed that complete gallstone dissolution rates at four years were 25-30 per cent (two normal oral cholecystograms) and 17-19 per cent (two normal oral cholecystograms plus one ultrasonogram). all patients with complete gallstone dissolution had shown partial stone dissolution at 6-12 months; of those with partial stone dissolution at six months, only 25 per cent went on to complete gallstone dissolution, and then always within two years. efficacy correlated inversely with stone size but not with age, sex, obesity or on-treatment saturation indices. acquired surface gallstone calcification developed in 13 patients (life-table analysis 22 +/- 7 per cent at four years); none of these patients achieved complete gallstone dissolution and only five achieved partial stone dissolution. thus, despite relatively high partial gallstone dissolution rates, the ultimate efficacy of udca in achieving complete gallstone dissolution is low.
usefulness of tomographic thallium-201 imaging for detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. the role of tomographic thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging in the detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) was evaluated in 116 patients: 61 (53%) with 1- and 55 (47%) with multivessel ptca, with a total of 185 dilated vessels. complete revascularization was performed in 89 (77%) and partial revascularization in 27 (23%) of the patients. restenosis was angiographically demonstrated in 69 (60%) of the patients and 85 (46%) of the vessels 6.4 +/- 3.1 months after ptca. disease progression in previously normal vessels was noted in 11 patients. the results were: (1) for detection of restenosis in the group of patients, single-photon emission computed tomographic (spect) versus exercise electrocardiographic sensitivity was 93 vs 52% (p less than 0.001), specificity 77 vs 64%, and accuracy 86 vs 57% (p less than 0.001). the results were similar in the complete and partial revascularization groups. (2) spect was 86% sensitive, specific and accurate for restenosis detection in specific vessels with comparable results for 1-versus multivessel ptca and complete versus partial revascularization. sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were: 89, 95 and 92% for the left anterior descending coronary artery; 88, 79 and 82% for the right coronary artery; and 76, 83 and 85% for the left circumflex coronary artery. eighty-one percent of the diseased nondilated vessels were correctly identified. (3) disease progression to greater than 50% stenosis was detected with 91% sensitivity, 84% specificity and 85% accuracy. spect thallium-201 imaging is an excellent tool for the detection of restenosis and disease progression after ptca in the settings of 1- and multivessel angioplasty and complete and partial revascularization.
acetylsalicylic acid vs. metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis--a double-blind cross-over study. in a double blind cross-over study, 28 patients, 5 male and 23 female, aged 31 +/- 14 years, after a run-in period of 8 weeks, were treated for 3 months with acetylsalicylic acid and for another 3 months with metoprolol, both in a prophylactic mode. attack frequency was reduced significantly with both therapeutic regimens (asa p less than 0.001, metoprolol p less than 0.00005). reduction of attacks below 50% was seen with metoprolol in 14 cases, and with asa in three cases. even though asa was of statistically significant efficacy in migraine prophylaxis, it clearly is not the drug of first choice in migraine prophylaxis.
sustained improvement in left ventricular function after successful coronary angioplasty. the short and long term effects of successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty on left ventricular function, at rest and on exercise were investigated in 49 patients. thirty-four had had no previous infarction (group 1) and 15 had (group 2). technetium-99m gated blood pool images were obtained at rest and during exercise before, six weeks after, and a mean of fifteen months after successful angioplasty. before angioplasty the mean (sd) ejection fraction fell significantly on exercise in both groups from 58 (10)% to 53 (13)% in group 1 and from 48 (10)% to 40 (16)% in group 2. this change was paralleled by a worsening wall motion score (from 0.6 (0.4) to 1.6 (1.2) in group 1 and from 2.3 (1.9) to 3.3 (2.4) in group 2). six weeks after the procedure there was little change in resting ejection fraction but it increased significantly on exercise (to 62 (11)% in group 1 and to 53 (13)% in group 2). there was a concomitant significant improvement in the exercise wall motion score (to 0.4 (0.6) in group 1 and to 1.8 (1.1) in group 2). this improvement in exercise ejection fraction and wall motion was maintained at later follow up with no significant deterioration in either variable and a clearly sustained improvement in ejection fraction (60 (10)% in group 1 and 51 (10)% in group 2) and wall motion score (0.2 (0.2) in group 1 and 1.3 (0.8) in group 2) compared with values before angioplasty.
effect of selective elimination of the oral flora on mucositis in irradiated head and neck cancer patients. recently it has been reported that chlorhexidine 0.1% rinsing was not successful in eradication of gram-negative bacilli in patients who have head and neck cancer. these bacilli could play a role in irradiation mucositis. this study reports the effect of lozenges containing 2 mg polymyxin e, 1.8 mg tobramycin, and 10 mg amphotericin b qid on the oropharyngeal flora in 15 irradiated head and neck cancer patients. the results were compared with those of a previous study in two groups of 15 patients comparing chlorhexidine rinsing with placebo. in all patients using lozenges, eradication of gram-negative bacilli and yeasts was achieved within 3 weeks. a significant increase of enterococci was found. mucositis was significantly reduced compared with the previous two groups. all patients showed erythema only, whereas 80% of both the placebo and chlorhexidine rinsing patients suffered from severe mucositis, with signs of pseudomembranes developing from the third week of conventional irradiation protocol. the effect of selective elimination of gram-negative bacilli from the oropharynx and the prevention of severe mucositis may be explained by the eradication of these bacteria and/or neutralization of salivary endotoxin, released by gram-negative bacilli, mediating the inflammatory processes.
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicating somatostatin therapy of cushing's syndrome in a patient with metastatic pancreatic islet cell carcinoma and zollinger-ellison syndrome. described is the case of a 73-yr-old woman with metastatic pancreatic islet carcinoma that manifested initially as zollinger-ellison syndrome followed by onset of endogenous cushing's syndrome, who developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while on therapy with a long-acting somatostatin analog. although p. carinii pneumonia has been observed in patients with cushing's syndrome associated with other conditions, this is the first reported case in a patient with zollinger-ellison syndrome. heightened awareness of the possibility of opportunistic infections in patients receiving somatostatin therapy for cushing's syndrome of any cause, particularly zollinger-ellison syndrome, may be warranted.
protective effect of transforming growth factor beta 1 on experimental autoimmune diseases in mice. interleukin 1 (il-1) and tumor necrosis factor alpha are thought to contribute to the inflammatory response associated with autoimmune diseases. transforming growth factor beta 1 (tgf-beta 1) counteracts many effects of these cytokines and has various immunosuppressive properties. in the present study, it is shown that microgram amounts of tgf-beta 1, injected daily for 1-2 weeks, protect against collagen-induced arthritis (cia) and relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (reae), the animal models for rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis, respectively. when administered during induction of the disease, tgf-beta 1 prevents cia but only delays the onset of reae by 2-3 days. however, when administered during a remission. tgf-beta 1 prevents the occurrence of relapses in reae. the results suggest that tgf-beta 1 has powerful anti-inflammatory effects, mimicking in some respects the beneficial effects of immunosuppressive drugs in these experimental models of autoimmune disease, but without discernable adverse effects.
treatment of anovulation due to polycystic ovarian syndrome by laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery. our experience of ovarian electrocautery for the treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos) in ten women is described. we found that nine responded favourably, either ovulating spontaneously or becoming more responsive to ovulation induction. there was a significant and persistent fall in serum testosterone levels, and a transient fall with subsequent rise in inhibin. we recommend that laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery is considered as an alternative to ovulation induction with gonadotrophins, in women with pcos who fail to respond to clomiphene citrate.
attenuated neuropathology by nilvadipine after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. we investigated the effects of nilvadipine, a calcium antagonist, on cerebral ischemia in rats. under halothane anesthesia, 30 rats had a 3-0 nylon suture introduced through the extracranial internal carotid artery to occlude the left middle cerebral artery. nilvadipine was dissolved in polyethylene glycol 400. immediately following occlusion, group 1 rats (n = 10) were treated subcutaneously with vehicle and group 2 and 3 rats were treated with 1.0 (n = 10) and 3.2 (n = 10) mg/kg nilvadipine, respectively. perfusion fixation was performed 24 hours later, and the histopathologic outcomes were quantified. in group 1 infarct volume was 28.2 +/- 11.4% of the total cerebral volume; in groups 2 and 3 infarct volumes were 25.5 +/- 11.6% (ns) and 13.9 +/- 9.2% (p less than 0.05 different from group 1), respectively. nilvadipine decreased ischemic neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner and may be of use in the treatment of cerebral ischemia.
pancreatic tumor pathogenesis reflects the causative genetic lesion. transgenic mice in which c-myc expression is targeted to pancreatic acinar cells develop mixed acinar/ductal pancreatic adenocarcinomas between 2 and 7 months of age. this contrasts with the effect on pancreas of the simian virus 40 tumor antigen or activated ras, which in adult mice causes lesions composed exclusively of acinar-like cells. furthermore, during an early stage of myc-induced pathology, transformed acinar-derived cells appear within islets, suggesting that islet hormones may influence the progression of these exocrine pancreatic tumors. these findings demonstrate that the initial oncogenic alteration can influence the pattern of subsequent tumor pathogenesis and, given that human exocrine pancreatic tumors are predominantly ductal adenocarcinomas, support the suggestion that transformed acinar cells may contribute to the genesis of this serious disease in man.
changes in cardiac function during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn infant. the effects of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) on cardiac function and its determinants (preload, afterload, contractility, and heart rate) are largely unknown, although some evidence exists that function may decrease. to determine whether cardiac function decreases and what changes in the determinants take place during and after ecmo, we observed 26 newborn infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension. serial echocardiograms were performed before ecmo, during maximum cardiopulmonary bypass, and after ecmo. cardiac function was assessed by using standard echographic ejection phase indices (shortening fraction and cardiac output). heart rate, preload (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and area), afterload (left ventricular end-systolic wall stress), and contractility (relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress) were also measured. ejection phase indices significantly decreased during ecmo (shortening fraction 33% to 25%, cardiac output 205 to 113 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05) and returned to normal after ecmo (shortening fraction 26% to 34%, cardiac output 107 to 240 ml/kg/per minute; p less than 0.05). heart rate also significantly decreased during ecmo (158 to 118 beats/min; p less than 0.05). preload significantly increased after ecmo (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension 1.4 to 1.6 cm, left ventricular end-diastolic area 1.9 to 2.2 cm2; p less than 0.05). there were no significant changes in contractility and afterload during any study period. we conclude that, although left ventricular ejection phase indices and heart rate decreased during ecmo, these changes were transient and resolved when bypass was terminated. contractility and afterload did not appear affected by bypass.
mechanism of glucoregulatory responses to stress and their deficiency in diabetes. during exercise, increased energy demands are met by increased glucose production that occurs simultaneously with the increased glucose uptake. we had previously observed that, during exercise, metabolic clearance rate of glucose (mcr) increases markedly in normal, but only marginally in poorly controlled diabetic dogs. we wished to determine (i) whether in a more general model of stress matched increases in rate of appearance of glucose and mcr also occur, or if mcr is suppressed, as during catecholamine infusion; and (ii) whether diabetes affects stress-induced changes in rate of glucose appearance and mcr. therefore, we injected carbachol (27 nmol/50 microliters), an analog of acetylcholine, intracerebroventricularly in seven conscious dogs before and after induction of alloxan diabetes. in normal dogs, plasma epinephrine and cortisol increased 4- to 5-fold, whereas norepinephrine and glucagon doubled. plasma insulin, however, remained unchanged. tracer-determined hepatic glucose production increased rapidly, but transiently, by 2.5-fold. this increment can be fully explained by the observed increments in the counterregulatory hormones. surprisingly, however, mcr also promptly increased, and therefore, plasma glucose changed only marginally. after induction of diabetes, the animals were given intracerebroventricular carbachol while plasma glucose was maintained at moderate hyperglycemia (9.0 +/- 0.4 mm). increments in counterregulatory hormones were similar to those seen in normal dogs, except for exaggerated norepinephrine release. peripheral insulin levels were higher in diabetic than in normal dogs; however, mcr was markedly reduced and the lipolytic response to stress increased, indicating insulin resistance. interestingly, the hyperglycemic response to stress was 6-fold greater in diabetic than normal animals, relating mainly to the failure of mcr to rise. plasma lactate increased equivalently in diabetic and normal animals despite suppression of mcr in the diabetics, indicating either greater muscle glycogenolysis and/or impairment in glucose oxidation. we conclude that in this stress model mcr increases as in exercise in normal but not in diabetic dogs. we speculate that glucose uptake in stress could be mediated through an insulin-dependent neural mechanism.
predictors of morbidity and mortality in neonates with herpes simplex virus infections. the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group. background. in a controlled trial comparing acyclovir with vidarabine in the treatment of neonatal herpes simplex virus (hsv) infection, we found no significant difference between the treatments in adjusted mortality and morbidity. hence, we sought to define for the entire cohort (n = 202) the clinical characteristics that best predicted the eventual outcome in these neonates. methods. data were gathered prospectively at 27 centers between 1981 and 1988 in infants less than one month of age who had virologically confirmed hsv infection. we examined the outcomes by multivariate analyses of 24 variables. disease was classified in one of three categories based on the extent of the involvement at entry into the trial: infection confined to skin, eyes, or mouth; encephalitis; or disseminated infection. results and conclusions. there were no deaths among the 85 infants with localized hsv infection. the mortality rate was significantly higher in the 46 neonates with disseminated infection (57 percent) than in the 71 with encephalitis (15 percent). in addition, the risk of death was increased in neonates who were in or near coma at entry (relative risk, 5.2), had disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (relative risk, 3.8), or were premature (relative risk, 3.7). in babies with disseminated disease, hsv pneumonitis was also associated with greater mortality (relative risk, 3.6). in the survivors, morbidity was most frequent in infants with encephalitis (relative risk, 4.4), disseminated infection (relative risk, 2.1), seizures (relative risk, 3.0), or infection with hsv type 2 (relative risk, 4.9). with hsv infection limited to the skin, eyes, or mouth, the presence of three or more recurrences of vesicles was associated with an increased risk of neurologic impairment as compared with two or fewer recurrences.
aetiology of pancreatic cancer curative surgery is possible in only a small minority of patients with pancreatic cancer and, to date, responses to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been disappointing. to make any impact on the incidence of the disease a clearer understanding of its aetiology is required. this review explores present knowledge of the aetiology and epidemiology of pancreatic cancer.
selenium in forage crops and cancer mortality in u.s. counties. the potential protective effect of selenium status on the risk of developing cancer has been examined in animal and epidemiologic studies. this ecological study investigated the association between u.s. county forage selenium status and site- and sex-specific county cancer mortality rates (1950-1969) using weighted least squares regression. consistent, significant (p less than .01) inverse associations were observed for cancers of the lung, rectum, bladder, esophagus, and cervix in a model limited to rural counties and for cancers of the lung, breast, rectum, bladder, esophagus, and corpus uteri in a model of all counties. no consistent significant positive associations were observed in the rural county models. this remarkable degree of consistency for the inverse associations strengthens the likelihood of a causal relationship between low selenium status and an increased risk of cancer mortality.
aortic dissection with the entrance tear in transverse aorta: analysis of 12 autopsy patients. clinical and autopsy findings are described in 12 patients who had fatal aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the transverse aorta. the 12 patients represent 7% of 182 autopsies of spontaneous aortic dissection studied by us. the ages of the 12 patients at death ranged from 37 to 87 years (mean, 67 years). eight were men; 8 had a history of systemic hypertension, and 10 had hearts of increased weight. diagnosis of aortic dissection was made during life in only 4 of the 12 patients. all 12 patients died of rupture of the false channel within 2 weeks of onset of signs or symptoms compatible with dissection. the direction of aortic dissection from the entrance tear was entirely retrograde in 4 patients, entirely anterograde in 4 patients, and in both directions in 4 patients. hemopericardium occurred in the first group, left hemothorax in the second group, and either in the last group. of the 8 patients in whom the ascending aorta was involved, the retrograde dissection in each extended to the aortic root, 6 had pulmonary adventitial hemorrhage, and 4 had involvement of the arch arteries by dissection. in the 4 patients with strictly anterograde dissection, none had dissection in the arch arteries. thus, tear in the transverse aorta causes a dissection that is usually fata, that often dissects retrogradely, and that may mimic dissection from a tear in ascending aorta. aortic dissection from a tear in transverse aorta requires early operative intervention.
the floppy infant: recent advances in the understanding of disorders affecting the neuromuscular junction. the clinician is often asked to evaluate the floppy infant. numerous conditions that cause hypotonia in infancy are briefly outlined in this article. these conditions may affect the brain, spinal cord, or motor unit. several disorders of neuromuscular transmission, including four distinct and recently described congenital myasthenic syndromes and infant botulism, are discussed thereafter.
deep venous thrombosis in intravenous cocaine abuse mimicking septic arthritis of the shoulder. we describe two patients with deep venous thrombosis of the upper extremity who initially were thought to have septic arthritis of the shoulder. these patients had a history of recent intravenous cocaine abuse. the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis should be considered when a patient with a swollen shoulder has an appropriate history.
influence of amphetamine treatment on somatosensory function of the normal and infarcted rat brain. the consequences of acute amphetamine administration on the metabolic responsiveness of the cerebral cortex to physiologic activation were studied in normal and infarcted rats. treated rats received a 4 mg/kg intravenous injection of d-amphetamine 1 hour before unilateral vibrissae stimulation and 2-deoxyglucose study. in nontreated normal rats, metabolic activation was restricted to the major relay stations of the vibrissae-barrel circuit. in amphetamine-treated rats, stimulation-induced increased glucose utilization was widespread, including ipsilateral and contralateral cortical regions outside the barrel field circuit. for example, an 84% increase in glucose utilization above control was seen in cortical areas anterior to the barrel field region. increased glucose utilization induced by stimulation was severely depressed in nontreated rats that had undergone infarction of the left cortical barrel field 2 weeks previously. vibrissae stimulation failed to increase glucose utilization significantly in cortical areas remote from the infarct. in contrast, bilateral increases in glucose utilization were observed within cortical regions of treated infarcted rats. for example, a 50% increase in glucose utilization was detected in cortical areas bordering the infarct. thus, in the normal and infarcted rat, amphetamine appears to promote alternate circuit activation--a pharmacologic property that may be advantageous for recovery after injury.
follow-up of infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for newborn respiratory failure. follow-up studies were conducted to assess the medical and developmental outcome of 92 infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation at the university of michigan. of 118 near-term (greater than 34 weeks' gestation) infants who received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, 103 (87%) were surviving and available for follow-up at between 1 and 7 years of age. ninety-two of these children were seen on at least one occasion. each visit included a history and physical examination, an evaluation by a physical therapist, and developmental testing by a pediatric psychologist. medical outcome during year 1 found 31% of the children rehospitalized, primarily with respiratory illness. outpatient-treated lower respiratory tract illness was seen in an additional 31% of the children. new or nonstatic neurologic problems were noted in 6% of the children. abnormal growth during year 1 occurred in 26% of the children. at last clinic visit 16% of the children exhibited moderate-to-severe neurologic abnormalities, and 8% had moderate-to-severe cognitive delay. sensorineural hearing loss occurred in 4% of children. nine percent of the children were receiving speech and language therapy; screening tests showed that an additional 6% had speech and language delay. overall, at last visit 16 (20%) of the children exhibited some type of handicap. a review of the literature on follow-up studies of non-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation-treated infants with persistent pulmonary artery hypertension produced an impairment rate of 18.5%. outcome post-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation appears similar to that seen in less ill cohorts of infants treated with more "conventional" therapy. long-term follow-up of all such infants remains essential.
maternal outcome after open fetal surgery. a review of the first 17 human cases. a few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth, but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother. to assess maternal risk of mortality, morbidity, and reproductive potential after fetal surgery, we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery. fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies: severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia. there were no deaths or serious maternal injuries. in the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy, uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications, requiring early confinement in most cases. there has been no detectable effect on future fertility, as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies. we conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother's life or her future reproductive potential. however, morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem, and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery.
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. ii. intraoperative electrophysiologic mapping and description of the electrophysiologic basis of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. computerized mapping of atrial fibrillation was performed in animals and man. to study atrial fibrillation in a systematic manner, we developed a clinically relevant experimental model of atrial fibrillation. chronic mitral regurgitation was created surgically in 25 dogs without opening the pericardium. after several months of chronic mitral regurgitation, the atria became enlarged and sustained atrial fibrillation could be induced by standard programmed electrical stimulation techniques. computerized isochronous activation maps of the atria were recorded during atrial fibrillation from 208 bipolar electrodes simultaneously. in a parallel study, human atrial fibrillation was mapped with a separate 160-channel intraoperative mapping system in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who were undergoing surgical correction of the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. the canine activation sequence maps demonstrated a spectrum of rhythm abnormalities ranging from simple atrial flutter to complex atrial fibrillation. they also showed that macroreentrant circuits within the atrial myocardium were responsible for the entire spectrum of arrhythmias. atrial reentry was also documented during human atrial fibrillation. all patients had nonuniform conduction around regions of bidirectional block in both atria resulting in multiple discrete wave fronts. in addition, six patients had a single reentrant circuit in the right atrium in which bidirectional block of the activation wave front occurred along the sulcus terminals between the venae cavae. the left atrium in all patients demonstrated multiple wave fronts and conduction block, but left atrial reentry could not be detected. both the experimental study and the clinical study demonstrated that multiple wave fronts, nonuniform conduction, bidirectional block, and large (macroreentrant) reentrant circuits occur during atrial fibrillation. the presence of macroreentrant circuits and the absence of either microreentrant circuits or evidence of atrial automaticity suggests that atrial fibrillation should be amenable to surgical ablation.
patterns of dyspepsia in patients with no clinical evidence of organic diseases. we studied 2000 dyspeptic patients with no obvious signs of organic disease at their first examination, in order to (1) verify how many diagnoses of idiopathic dyspepsia had really been made after exhaustive diagnostic procedures and (2) evaluate the diagnostic power of the symptoms in distinguishing organic from idiopathic dyspepsia. this latter was considered only when no structural abnormalities were found. in all the other cases, a distinction was made between "related" and "associated" organic dyspepsia according to whether or not there was a certain relationship between the abnormalities and the dyspeptic symptoms. the patients were referred to us as follows: (1) spontaneously, (2) sent by physicians collaborating with us, (3) referred to our open access endoscopic service. the results show the frequency of idiopathic dyspepsia was 26%, whereas associated structural abnormalities were present in 45.4%. obvious organic causes of dyspepsia were seen in 28.6% (24% benign and 4.6% malignant diseases). when considered separately, no symptom alone allows a correct diagnosis. the simultaneous evaluation of the symptoms with linear discriminant analysis distinguishes between idiopathic and organic dyspeptic patients in about 70% of the cases. a higher discrimination percentage in about 70% of the cases. a higher discrimination percentage could probably be obtained using a wider range of clinical parameters and/or a more complex statistical analysis of the interrelationships which exist between the clinical symptoms and the final diagnosis.
lack of transmission of the live attenuated varicella vaccine virus to immunocompromised children after immunization of their siblings. the safety of administering the live attenuated oka/merck varicella vaccine to the well siblings of children with malignancy was evaluated as a strategy for reducing the risk of household exposure to varicella among immunocompromised children. susceptible well children were eligible for vaccination if the child with malignancy had leukemia, lymphoma, or solid tumor in remission for 3 months or longer. no evidence of vaccine virus transmission was found among 30 children with malignancy whose 37 healthy susceptible siblings were immunized with varicella vaccine. varicella-zoster virus was not isolated from the oropharyngeal secretions taken from 17 vaccinees or their 14 immunocompromised siblings. none of the 30 immunocompromised children had vaccine-related rashes or showed immunologic evidence of subclinical varicella-zoster virus infection based on testing for varicella-zoster virus igg antibodies and t-lymphocyte proliferation to varicella-zoster virus. four healthy vaccinees eventually had mild breakthrough cases of varicella, with transmission to the high-risk sibling in 3 cases. however, even in these families, the immunocompromised children had been protected from household exposure varicella for at least 20 months early in the course of their immunosuppressive treatment.
effect of the leukotriene b4 receptor antagonist sc-41930 on colonic inflammation in rat, guinea pig and rabbit. inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract that includes ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease. leukotriene b4 is thought to be a prominent proinflammatory mediator in these diseases, in that leukotriene b4 levels are increased in the colonic mucosa of inflammatory bowel disease patients and there is increased polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration of these tissues. we evaluated the efficacy of 7-[3-(4-acetyl-3-methoxy-2-propylphenoxy)-3,4-dihydro-8-propyl -2h-1-benzopyran-2-carboxylic acid (sc-41930), a potent, orally active leukotriene b4 receptor antagonist, in a model of inflammatory bowel disease. colonic mucosal inflammation was induced in rats, guinea pig and rabbits by rectal instillation of a dilute solution of acetic acid. twenty-four hours later, mucosal levels of myeloperoxidase (a marker enzyme for neutrophil infiltration) and extravasation of i.v. administered evans blue dye (a marker of vascular disruption and increased permeability) were measured. tissues were also evaluated histologically. the animals received either sc-41930 or vehicle, intrarectally, 30 min after or 1 hr before and 1 hr after the acetic acid. when given 30 min after acetic acid instillation sc-41930 prevented the rise in myeloperoxidase and dye extravasation observed in the acetic acid inflammed tissue. the sc-41930-treated tissues were less edematous and had fewer neutrophils within the subepithelial space. median effective dose (ed50) values for vascular protection were approximately 20 mg/kg for both rat and guinea pig. ed50 values for inhibition of granulocyte accumulation were 20 mg/kg for rat, 24 mg/kg for guinea pig and 30 mg/kg for rabbit. these data indicate that sc-41930 is effective locally to prevent acute colonic inflammation.
primary ct diagnosis of abdominal masses in a pacs environment whether the display medium--film versus cathode ray tube (crt)--affects observer performance during interpretation of computed tomographic (ct) images is an important research issue in these times of implementation and growth of picture archiving and communications systems in radiology. the authors performed a multiobserver receiver operating characteristic (roc) study to determine the performance of radiologists who read abdominal ct studies displayed on film, as well as on a high-resolution workstation (video monitor) that made use of three different display modes. a total of 166 examinations were evaluated by eight radiologists, who recorded their ordinal confidence ratings of the demonstration of presence or absence of abdominal masses. roc analysis showed small differences in the confidence ratings assigned by individual readers for the detection and interpretation tasks. results for the group as a whole showed no significant reduction or improvement in observer performance when ratings for any one of the workstation display modes were analyzed. the results of this study demonstrate that current crt display technology is adequate for enabling the primary detection of abdominal masses with ct examinations.
effects of acute hypermagnesemia on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures in the rat. the effects of acute changes in plasma magnesium concentration on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures were evaluated in mechanically ventilated rats receiving 70% nitrous oxide and 30% oxygen. in experiment 1, male rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (group i) or 5.0% magnesium sulfate to elevate plasma magnesium levels to 5.8 +/- 0.1 (group ii) or 10.5 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (group iii). in experiment 2, pregnant rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (normomagnesemia) or magnesium sulfate, resulting in a plasma magnesium concentration of 7.8 +/- 1.4 mg/dl. thirty minutes later, a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine (2.3 mg/kg per minute) was begun in both experiments. biparietal electroencephalographic activity was monitored continuously. at the onset of electroencephalographic seizure activity, arterial plasma magnesium and lidocaine concentrations were measured. in groups i and iii (experiment 1), brain parenchymal magnesium was also assayed. there were no differences in plasma lidocaine concentrations (in experiments 1 or 2) between saline solution and hypermagnesemic groups at onset of seizures. brain magnesium level was unaltered by magnesium sulfate infusion. we conclude that acute administration of magnesium sulfate alters neither brain magnesium level nor the plasma lidocaine concentration associated with onset of electroencephalographic seizures.
comparison of supraannular and subannular pledgeted sutures in mitral valve replacement ten fresh canine hearts were used to compare the peak left ventricular pressure required to disrupt prosthetic mitral valves sutured in place with horizontal mattress sutures with either subannular or supraannular pledgets. each group consisted of 5 animals. a 29-mm medtronic mitral valve was secured in the mitral position with ten pledgeted sutures. the aorta was cannulated and normal saline solution was infused into the left ventricle until valvar disruption occurred. the peak pressure and the location and mechanism of disruption were then noted. at the peak left ventricular pressure required for valvar disruption, no individual sutures were broken. instead, in all specimens a subannular myocardial rupture occurred in the posterior portion of the mitral annulus along the extent of the atrioventricular groove. in addition, the posterior wall of the left atrium dissected upward subsequently. significantly greater pressures were required in the group with subannular suture placement as compared with the supraannular group (354 +/- 37 versus 236 +/- 33 mm hg; p less than 0.0007). these data suggest that placement of horizontal mattress sutures with pledgets in the subannular position is superior to the currently recommended method of supraannular suture placement in mechanical valves.
segmented turboflash: method for breath-hold mr imaging of the liver with flexible contrast. a method called segmented turboflash imaging allows high-resolution, multisection, short-inversion-time (ti) inversion-recovery (stir), t1- or t2-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval. the method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions. sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboflash, single-shot turboflash, t1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time, and t2-weighted spin-echo (se) techniques. signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboflash method, with tis of 10 and 300 msec, respectively; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach. signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best t2-weighted se and t1-weighted gradient-echo techniques. it is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboflash imaging. the method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis.
treatment of infection after total knee arthroplasty by debridement with retention of the components. thirty-one total knee arthroplasties were followed by infection in twenty-seven patients who were subsequently treated with debridement, retention of the components, and intravenous administration of antibiotics. the results were reviewed retrospectively in an effort to evaluate the function of the prostheses that had been salvaged successfully and to identify the causes of failure of those around which an infection had recurred. at the most recent follow-up (average duration, 8.8 years), infection had recurred around twenty-four (77 per cent) of the thirty-one arthroplasties. seven knees (23 per cent) remained free of infection. function remained satisfactory, although revision was subsequently needed in two knees for reasons other than infection. one cause of failure was the duration of the infection before debridement. this averaged twenty-one days for the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty had been salvaged and thirty-six days for the twenty-four knees in which treatment had failed. another cause of failure was the type of organism: staphylococcus aureus had caused the infection in fourteen (58 per cent) of the twenty-four knees in which the treatment failed but in only two of the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty was salvaged. in addition, eight infections in the first group were resistant to penicillin, whereas both infections in the second group were sensitive to penicillin. the four infections with gram-negative organisms in the series were all in knees in which the treatment failed. all six hinged prostheses that were used failed.
effect of nimodipine on acute ischemic stroke. pooled results from five randomized trials. in a review of pooled data from five double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of nimodipine in acute ischemic stroke, we compared the effect of 120 mg nimodipine given orally with that of placebo. in the five studies, 871 patients were followed, and 781 adhered to entry and inclusion criteria. end points were mortality and outcome at the end of the treatment period (21 or 28 days). outcome was assessed with mathew's scale and the physician's clinical judgement. the treatment and control groups were well matched with respect to demographic data, risk factors, and baseline mathew scores. in the treatment group, 34 patients (7.9%) died during the treatment period, whereas 54 (12.3%) in the control group died, corresponding with a mortality reduction of 36%. significantly less neurologic impairment at the end of the treatment period was documented under nimodipine treatment, and this impairment improved more in patients with moderate-to-severe stroke (baseline mathew score less than 66) if administration of nimodipine occurred within 12 hours after stroke onset or if the patient was more than 65 years old. the overall incidence of adverse reactions was relatively modest, and these were of minor severity; only a few appeared to have more than a remote relation to the study medication.
isolated lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis. the peri-operative anaesthetic management of 11 patients with pulmonary fibrosis undergoing single-lung transplantation is presented. intra-operative problems, the early postoperative phase of recovery and intensive care, and other incidents in which general anaesthesia was required for the management of complications, are featured. results, both short- and long-term, are mentioned. major intra-operative events that cause concern appear to be related to the severity of the presenting illness and the development of respiratory failure. others have reported the development of intra-operative cardiac failure. all cases were successfully managed operatively using conventional one-lung anaesthesia, although resort to partial cardiopulmonary bypass may have been indicated in some. the indications and attitudes to utilising cardiopulmonary bypass in the evolution of techniques for facilitating single-lung transplantation are reviewed.
cerebral palsy and rhizotomy. a 3-year follow-up evaluation with gait analysis. a recent increase in the popularity of selective rhizotomy for reduction of spasticity in cerebral palsy has led to a demand for more objective studies of outcome and long-term follow-up results. the authors present the results of gait analysis on 14 children with spastic cerebral palsy, who underwent selective posterior rhizotomy in 1985. sagittal plane gait patterns were studied before surgery and at 1 and 3 years after surgery using a digital camera system. the parameters measured included the range of motion at the knee and thigh, stride length, speed of walking, and cadence. the range of motion at the knee was significantly increased at 1 year after surgery and further improved to a nearly normal range at 3 years after surgery. in contrast, postoperative measurements of thigh range exceeded normal values at 1 year, but decreased toward normal range at 3 years. while improvements in range of motion continued between years 1 and 3, the children developed a more extended thigh and knee position, which indicated a more upright walking posture. stride length and speed of walking also improved, while cadence remained essentially unchanged. this 3-year follow-up study, the first to examine rhizotomy using an objective approach, has provided some encouraging results regarding early functional outcome.
sjogren's syndrome and primary biliary cirrhosis: presence of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial 2-oxo acid dehydrogenases. sjogren's syndrome is well known for the presence of antibodies directed at specific nuclear antigens. however, the presence of antibodies reacting with a variety of other self antigens, including antimitochondrial antibodies, has often been reported although their significance is unknown. moreover, patients with sjogren's syndrome have been occasionally reported to be concordant with primary biliary cirrhosis. to address this issue we studied in a group of 96 patients with sjogren's syndrome the presence of autoantibodies to the dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferases of both pyruvate dehydrogenase and branch chain ketoacid dehydrogenase and to alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase; these latter enzymes are the mitochondrial target antigens of primary biliary cirrhosis. we report that 7 of the 96 patients reacted with the mitochondrial antigens that are prominent in primary biliary cirrhosis. moreover, in those patients showing reactivity with mitochondrial antigens, the autoantibodies were directed at the same immunodominant epitopes that have been previously characterized in primary biliary cirrhosis. one of the 7 positive patients was known to have primary biliary cirrhosis. we hypothesize that the remaining 6 patients are at clinical risk for the development of primary biliary cirrhosis and/or that abnormalities would be found on liver biopsy.
molecular phenotype of a pediatric small round cell tumor. molecular probes were used to characterize an unusual small round cell abdominal tumor arising from the fallopian tube of a 15-year-old girl. dna and rna extracted from the tumor and adjacent normal tissue was subjected to southern and northern blot analysis using a variety of different probes. n-myc oncogene rna was greatly expressed in the tumor, but was not expressed in normal tissue or amplified in chromosomal dna. insulin-like growth factor ii rna was similarly overexpressed in the neoplasm, but not in normal tissue. while histopathologic studies could not distinguish between a neuroectodermal neoplasm and wilms' tumor, electron microscopy and the pattern of gene expression was most consistent with wilms' tumor.
rapid control of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias with high-dose oral amiodarone. to shorten the delay in the onset of antiarrhythmic effect when using amiodarone for the conversion of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm, 19 patients were given oral amiodarone according to a high-dose loading protocol. in 18 of 19 patients (95%), sinus rhythm was restored 36 hours (range, 0 to 96 hours) after starting amiodarone. the conversion occurred as a result of amiodarone therapy alone within 48 hours in 12 patients (63%), and by amiodarone therapy plus electrical cardioversion at 48 to 96 hours in six patients (32%). minor side effects were noted in eight patients (42%). no major side effects were encountered. the length of hospital stay after initiating amiodarone therapy was 3.6 days (range, 2 to 5 days). high-dose oral amiodarone loading is a safe and effective method for the rapid conversion of atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm.
elective resection for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon. from 1966 to 1987, 177 consecutive patients were operated on electively for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon. the indications for surgery were: colovesical fistula (n = 12), suspicion of residual abscess (n = 39), two or more previous attacks of acute inflammation (n = 52), chronic symptoms (n = 72) and suspicion of carcinoma (n = 2). an abscess was found at operation in 76 patients (43 per cent) and this was extracolic with local peritonitis in 52 patients (29 per cent). an unsuspected abscess was found in 25 of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms. colonic resection with primary anastomosis was performed in 95 per cent of the 177 patients and in 94 per cent of those 52 patients with an extracolic abscess. there were no postoperative deaths and no clinical anastomotic leakages. long-term results were very good in 85 per cent of the 177 patients and in 82 per cent of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms. the results of this series suggest that a one-stage procedure can be safely performed with some technical precautions in most patients operated on electively for diverticular disease, even if an extracolic abscess is found. the good long-term results in patients operated on for chronic symptoms suggest that such symptoms should be taken into account with respect to surgical indications.
asymptomatic ulnar neuropathy in carpal tunnel syndrome. quantitative assessment of the vibration threshold of the second and fifth fingertips at 125hz was performed on 28 affected limbs of 17 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome (cts) together with a median and ulnar sensory nerve conduction velocity (sncv) study. twenty-six limbs of 26 age-matched healthy subjects were used as controls. both the vibration threshold elevation of the second finger and the delay of median sncv were significant in cts patients as compared with controls (p less than .001). although the ulnar sncvs of all affected limbs were within the normal range, ten affected limbs (36%) were found to have a concomitant vibration threshold elevation of the fifth finger, and eight of those limbs were found to be exposed to chronic occupational mechanical stimulation at the wrist. these findings appear to support the presence of subclinical traumatic damage to the ulnar nerve at the wrist. in summary, digital vibration measurement can elucidate subclinical ulnar neuropathy in cts which cannot be detected by sncv studies.
long-term effects of delapril on renal function and urinary excretion of kallikrein, prostaglandin e2, and thromboxane b2 in hypertensive patients. the effects of delapril, an angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor, on renal function and the renin-angiotensin and kallikrein-prostaglandin systems were investigated in 10 hypertensive patients who were treated for between 4 months and 1 year. there was a significant (p less than .05) increase in renal blood flow (rbf) without affecting glomerular filtration rate. filtration fraction increased, while renal vascular resistance decreased. there were also significant (p less than .05) increases in urinary kallikrein and prostaglandin excretion, while thromboxane excretion decreased. there was no change in urinary aldosterone excretion. these results suggest that renal hemodynamic changes seen during long-term therapy with delapril are caused, in part, by activation of the kallikrein-prostaglandin system, as well as suppression of the renin-angiotensin system.
histologic evaluation of the larynx in sudden infant death syndrome. seventy-four larynges removed at death from children who died of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) have been studied by serial sectioning in the transverse plane. an increase in subepithelial glandular tissue is seen in many specimens, and the reduction in the available subglottic area has been measured with the measuremouse image intensifying system. this preliminary report confirms that in some of these children with sids, particularly around the age of 3 months, there is a potentially lethal reduction in subglottic airway secondary to an increase in mucus-secreting glands, possibly from an associated mild upper respiratory tract infection. accepting that adequate control infants within this age group who have not had any trauma to the laryngotracheal area are not available, these findings offer a possible explanation for what are always tragic events.
pivotal role of early and sustained infarct vessel patency in patients with acute myocardial infarction. thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction unequivocally has improved short- and long-term mortality. the fundamental goal of therapy for evolving myocardial infarction is early and sustained infarct vessel recanalization. the mechanisms linking an open artery with improved long-term survival and other clinical outcomes are presented with use of data from extensive clinical trials.
low-dose preoperative radiation postpones recurrences in operable rectal cancer. results of a randomized multicenter trial in western norway. a randomized, multicenter clinical trial was conducted in western norway to study the effectiveness of preoperative radiation therapy in operable rectal cancer, given at a dosage of 3150 cgy in 18 fractions, 2 to 3 weeks before radical surgery. three hundred nine patients were entered into the trial between may 1976 and december 1985. after radiation no tumor was seen in 4.5% of the patients. there was no increased morbidity or mortality at surgery. the 5-year survival for evaluable patients was 57.5% in the control group and 56.7% in the radiotherapy group. for patients operated on for cure the 5-year survival was 60.9% and 64.2% in the control group and radiotherapy group, respectively. radiation significantly delayed both local and distant recurrences in patients in the radiation group who had curative resection from 13.3 months in controls to 27.1 months. the local recurrence rate in the corresponding groups was 21.1% and 13.7%, respectively. we conclude that higher preoperative radiation doses should be used in new trials as a higher dosage may transform the observed positive effects into a survival benefit.
multicentric endobronchial granular cell myoblastoma. granular cell myoblastoma (gcm) is a rare benign neoplasm involving the tracheobronchial tree. it is believed to arise from the schwann cell. four cases of tracheobronchial gcm, all of which were multicentric, are presented and a conservative therapeutic approach is suggested.
a simplified diagnostic approach to pheochromocytoma. a review of the literature and report of one institution's experience. pheochromocytoma is an unusual but potentially devastating tumor. although a high index of suspicion is necessary, the likelihood of a pheochromocytoma is lower in the absence of the typical symptoms and findings. nonetheless, screening must be broadened to include patients with a lower risk of the disease, such as those with resistant or labile hypertension who are minimally symptomatic. extensive diagnostic evaluations should be reserved for those whose clinical or laboratory findings are more suggestive. symptoms in a group of patients in whom a pheochromocytoma was seriously considered but excluded overlap symptoms in patients with a pheochromocytoma. certain symptoms are useful: flushing to suggest a non-pheochromocytoma illness; visual symptoms, flank pain, and pallor to suggest that a pheochromocytoma is more likely. combinations of symptoms can be of value: 2 or more symptoms from the triad of headache, palpitations, and diaphoresis were present in the majority of pheochromocytoma patients, but in a smaller number of non-pheochromocytoma patients. the presence of the entire triad is more specific, but less sensitive. new hypertension, or hypertension associated with unexplained orthostatic hypotension, are suggestive of an underlying pheochromocytoma. twenty-four-hour urine studies are consistently abnormal in patients with a pheochromocytoma, but are also elevated in a significant proportion of non-pheochromocytoma patients. values greater then 1.5-2-fold above the upper limit of normal are very suggestive that a pheochromocytoma is present, and warrant a more intensive subsequent evaluation. imaging studies are reliable in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, and can help to confirm or exclude the disease. patients with a higher clinical likelihood and any elevated urinary testing, or with a lower clinical likelihood and persistently and/or significantly elevated urinary testing, should have imaging studies performed. this combination of clinical screening, 24-hour urinary testing, and imaging studies is a useful and reliable approach to patients suspected of harboring a pheochromocytoma.
an improved photochemical model of embolic cerebral infarction in rats. to provide further evidence that the multiple cerebral infarcts found in rats following photochemical damage to the carotid artery are caused by emboli and to eliminate the systemic hypotension and heating of the blood reported with the previous photochemical embolic stroke model (rose bengal and a green laser), i have modified the photochemical technique. brain pathology was studied in 18 wistar rats following carotid artery irradiation with a red laser (632 nm) at powers ranging from 100 to 800 mw/cm2 for 10 or 20 minutes following the injection of the photosensitizing dye photofrin ii. multiple cerebral arterioles were occluded by platelet aggregates containing frequent erythrocytes and leukocytes, identical to the thrombotic material in the carotid artery but different from the platelet aggregates seen in the carotid artery and the brain in the rose bengal model. eighty infarcts were distributed randomly throughout the brain ipsilateral to the nonocclusive carotid thrombus. significant heating (0.5 degree c or more) of the blood occurred only with laser powers higher (1,600 mw/cm2) or laser irradiations longer (25 minutes) than those used in the improved model of embolic stroke. this model mimics one mechanism of stroke in humans and provides a means to study systematically the morphological evolution of small cerebral infarcts.
effects of vasopressin on portal pressure during hemorrhage from esophageal varices. vasopressin is often used to treat variceal hemorrhage. however, its efficacy is uncertain, and its portal hemodynamic effects in this setting are unknown. eleven patients with alcoholic liver disease and bleeding varices were given vasopressin (0.2 u/min for the first hour, then 0.4 u/min for 24 hours). portal pressure was monitored using an indwelling hepatic vein balloon catheter. seventeen patients with variceal bleeding who remained stable over 26 hours of initial treatment with crystalloid and blood products served as a comparison group. vasopressin infusion (0.2 u/min) produced a significant decrease in wedged hepatic venous pressure, hepatic venous pressure gradient (wedged minus free hepatic venous pressure), and heart rate. increases in the rate of infusion did not produce further decreases in the parameters measured, but the changes were sustained over the course of the infusion. hemodynamics remained stable in the control group. portal pressure did not increase when vasopressin was abruptly discontinued in the 3 patients in whom postinfusion measurements were made. vasopressin retains its portal hypotensive effects in the setting of variceal hemorrhage. tachyphylaxis does not develop over 26 hours, and a "rebound" increase in portal pressure probably does not occur when the infusion is discontinued.
helicobacter pylori infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. a controlled study was conducted on patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection referred for upper endoscopy to evaluate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection. four different stains and culture for h. pylori were performed on biopsy specimens from the gastric antrum. sixteen (40%) of 40 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) or aids-related complex (arc) were diagnosed to be infected with h. pylori versus 14 (39%) of 36 age-matched control patients. eight of 15 aids/arc patients without aids-related esophagogastroduodenal findings (53%) were infected with h. pylori versus 8/25 (32%) with endoscopic findings typical of aids. no invasion of the lamina propria by h. pylori was noted in any patient. active chronic gastritis was present in 60% of aids/arc patients and 61% of controls. fifty-eight and 59%, respectively, of active chronic gastritis cases were infected with h. pylori. all the h. pylori infections, except one, were found in patients with chronic gastritis. in aids/arc patients, h. pylori infection and active chronic gastritis are as common as in other patients referred for upper endoscopy. they may play a pathogenic role, especially when endoscopic aids-related findings are lacking. cell-mediated immune deficiency does not appear to increase the risk of infection with h. pylori.
recurrent pain, illness intrusiveness, and quality of life in end-stage renal disease. repeated episodes of headache and muscle cramp were hypothesized to contribute to increased patient perceptions of illness intrusiveness and to compromised quality of life. standard measures of pain, illness intrusiveness, and quality of life were obtained on 2 occasions, each 6 weeks apart, from 100 end-stage renal disease patients. the impact of recurrent muscle cramps on perceptions of illness intrusiveness was conditional upon the occurrence of headache symptoms. perceptions of illness intrusiveness were significantly higher when both muscle cramp and headache symptoms occurred during one or more assessment intervals as compared to when muscle cramps or headaches, only, occurred. illness-related concerns and general feelings of pessimism were also significantly higher among patients who experienced recurrent episodes of muscle cramp. although no direct relations were observed between pain and other quality of life indicators, previous research has documented a relation between illness intrusiveness and quality of life. recurrent pain problems, thus, appear to contribute to increased illness intrusiveness and to reduced quality of life in end-stage renal disease patients.
reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese. a university experience. patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications. to evaluate outcome following revisional procedures, we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at ucla between april 1986 and may 1989. twenty-five women (78%) and 7 men (22%) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations (2.4 per patient) for complications of prior obesity surgery. indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements (12 patients) and weight-related problems (11 patients). in contrast, indications for the patients' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction (41%), intra-abdominal sepsis (12%), and gastrointestinal bleeding (6%). following initial revision, 23 patients (71.8%) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died (12.5%). while initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems, final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent, life-threatening complications. revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered, and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits.
cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy. cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented. the authors measured cerebral blood flow (cbf) and metabolic rate for oxygen (cmro2) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure (three to five organs). they found that cbf and cmro2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 +/- 2 to 28 +/- 3 ml/100g/min (mean +/- sem) and 3.1 +/- 0.2 to 1.2 +/- 0.2 ml/100g/min, respectively. cerebral vascular resistance (cvr) and cerebral circulatory index (cci:cbf/cmro2) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 +/- 0.1 to 3.0 +/- 0.4 mm hg/ml/100g/min and 15.1 +/- 0.8 to 24.2 +/- 3.3, respectively. at the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements, their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the glasgow coma scale. the electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients. computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy. it is concluded that cbf and cmro2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the cns and decreased electrical activity.
impaired polymorphonuclear leucocyte function in patients undergoing hepatectomy: adenylate energy charge and superoxide anion production in relation to hepatic mitochondrial redox state. patients undergoing hepatectomy have an increased susceptibility to infection. we therefore studied the energy metabolism of the polymorphonuclear leucocyte (pmn), focusing on energy charge and function, especially superoxide anion (o2-) generation, in relation to the hepatic mitochondrial redox state. by labelling the pmn adenine nucleotide pool with radioactive adenine and by superoxide dismutase-inhibitable reduction of ferricytochrome c, the energy charge and o2- production was measured in 18 patients with hepatoma (non-cirrhotic, seven; cirrhotic, 11) undergoing hepatectomy. their arterial ketone body ratios (kbrs), reflecting the hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were above 0.7 before operation. after surgery, the 18 patients were divided into two groups: group a, kbr greater than 0.7, n = 10; and group b, kbr less than 0.7, n = 8. the energy charge and o2- release in group b decreased significantly from preoperative values (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01 respectively) and when compared with group a (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 respectively). these results suggest that impaired hepatic energy metabolism (kbr less than 0.7) in hepatectomized patients leads to impaired energy charge and o2- production in the pmns.
hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury. hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury is an extremely rare entity, and evidence by only five cases that have been reported in the medical literature to date. we report five additional cases encountered in two medical centers. two of these were ruptured corpus luteum cysts, one was a laceration of the round ligament, another was a laceration of an ovary, and the fifth was rupture of a serous cystadenoma. this diagnosis should be considered in patients with hemoperitoneum after coitus.
long-term treatment of hereditary angioedema with attenuated androgens: a survey of a 13-year experience. fifty-six patients affected with hereditary angioedema have been followed during long-term prophylaxis with attenuated androgens. the treatment was started in patients who had one or more severe attacks per month. in 24 patients, the therapy lasted for more than 5 years. the minimal effective dose usually did not exceed 2 mg/day of stanozolol or 200 mg/day of danazol. only in two patients were these doses not sufficient to achieve the complete disappearance of symptoms. irregular menstruation, but rarely amenorrhea, was the only significant side effect. one patient had to stop the therapy because of laboratory signs of hepatic cell necrosis. in one patient, danazol was administered during the last 8 weeks of pregnancy without side effects for the mother but with transient signs of virilization for the female baby. to find a biochemical marker for the minimal effective dose of androgen derivatives, we measured the plasma levels of c1 c1 inh complexes at different doses of stanozolol in four patients with hereditary angioedema. we found that these complexes, elevated before treatment, promptly reverted to normal values during androgen therapy and remained normal with any reduction of the dose of the drug as long as the patient remained symptom free. therefore, the measurement of c1 c1 inh complexes appears to reflect the activity of the disease and not the amount of androgen that is administered.
reappraisal of the mechanism for cerebrospinal fluid hypertension during aortic surgery. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) hypertension during aortic surgery is a poorly understood, multifactorial event that may increase the risk of spinal cord injury. to assess the factors that may contribute to changes in csf pressure during aortic surgery, measurements of ascending arterial and csf pressures were made in 17 anesthetized mongrel dogs. changes in csf patterns were monitored under several conditions tested in random sequence. these included systemic hypertension produced by an infusion of phenylephrine, cross-clamping of the descending thoracic aorta, and manual, superior displacement of the transverse aortic arch (arch elevation), either alone or in conjunction with the cross-clamp. hypertension, cross-clamping, and cross-clamping combined with arch elevation all produced significant increases in ascending mean arterial pressure (204 +/- 20, 170 +/- 8, and 158 +/- 11 mm hg, respectively, vs. 117 +/- 8 mm hg [control]; (p less than 0.01). small, nonsignificant increases in csf pressure were detected in the cross-clamp group, but none were detected with hypertension alone, despite significant increases in ascending arterial blood pressure in both groups. thus, neither arterial hypertension nor cross-clamping alone could be demonstrated directly to cause significant csf hypertension. however, when aortic elevation (displacement) was combined with cross-clamping, the rise in csf pressure increased to significant levels, even though the ascending arterial hypertension was least severe in this group. in contrast, arch elevation alone did not produce any significant increase in ascending arterial pressure but did produce an approximately 114% increase in csf pressure (15.2 +/- mm hg vs. 7.7 +/- 1 mm hg [control]; p less than 0.01.
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients. the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil (5fu) 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 (fec 50) and 5fu 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 (fec 75) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients. patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only. four hundred twelve patients entered this trial; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy. the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 (44.6%) and fec 75 (44.7%), but both were better than the epirubicin alone (30.6%) (p = .04 and p = .0006, respectively). the complete response rate was better in fec 75 (15.5%) than in fec 50 (7%) (p = .025) or epirubicin (4%) (p = .002). similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases. no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only. mean durations of response were similar in the three groups, being 412 days, 440 days, and 350 days for fec 50, fec 75, and epirubicin, respectively. patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment (without anthracyclines). tolerability was fair in the three groups. overall, the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups, which did not differ significantly. time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups, but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group, and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance. no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin- and fec 50-group patients, even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group.
changes in circulating norepinephrine with hemofiltration in advanced congestive heart failure. in congestive heart failure (chf), hemofiltration is associated with an obvious decrease in circulating norepinephrine. this method was used for investigating the mechanisms whereby plasma norepinephrine is increased in chronic chf. in 23 cases of advanced chf, hemofiltration (2,983 +/- 1,228 ml) lowered plasma norepinephrine by 515 +/- 444 pg/ml. this effect was prompt, persisted or became greater in the next 24 hours. it was not associated with significant changes in cardiac output, aortic pressure or systemic vascular resistance. it did not appear to depend on variations in parameters related to the sympathetic activity, such as plasma renin, right atrial, wedge pulmonary artery and renal perfusion pressures, and was independent of duration and amount of hemofiltration. these observations did not support the concept that the norepinephrine decrease was the main consequence of a neural sympathetic inhibition. hemofiltration increased diuresis by 606 +/- 415 ml; changes were prompt and correlated inversely (r = -0.7; p less than 0.01) with those in plasma norepinephrine. the same unknown mechanism of the increased urinary output might potentiate the norepinephrine removal from the blood by the kidney, or hemofiltration and the augmented diuresis might result in a regression of congestion of lungs and kidneys, leading to an improved extraction of norepinephrine. in chf, a relation may exist between fluid retention and norepinephrine and in advanced stages, circulating norepinephrine, although strikingly increased, is devoid of important cardiovascular effects. at these stages, plasma norepinephrine is probably unreliable as an index of the sympathetic neural activity.
experimental retinal branch vein occlusion in miniature pigs induces local tissue hypoxia and vasoproliferative microangiopathy. in miniature pigs, retinal veins were experimentally occluded using argon laser coagulation. microvascular modifications leading to retinal hemorrhages and retinal edema were observed some hours after the occlusion. these lesions resolved progressively within 3 weeks after the occlusion, but in most cases ischemic retinal territories persisted. preretinal partial pressure of oxygen (po2) measurements, using double barrelled o2-sensitive microelectrodes, showed that all the ischemic areas were indeed hypoxic. in half of the experiments, preretinal and intravitreal new vessels grew on the ischemic territories. tissue hypoxia appears to be a key step in triggering neovascularization. however, the critical level of hypoxia was not determined.
development of a traumatic intracranial hematoma after a "minor" head injury. we have analyzed features of patients who had what appeared initially to be a minor head injury but who developed an acute traumatic intracranial hematoma. over a 10-year period, 183 patients who were able to open their eyes spontaneously, were oriented to person, place, and time, and who obeyed commands when they were first seen at a hospital subsequently underwent operation for an acute intracranial hematoma. the hematoma was extradural in 54% of these patients. a history of altered consciousness or symptoms of headache and vomiting were present in 61% of the patients; 33% had a focal neurological deficit, and 43% had either focal deficit or signs of a basal skull fracture. a skull fracture was shown radiologically in 60% of patients, including 52% of those not clinically suspected of having an intracranial lesion. six months after injury, 77% of the patients had made a moderate or good recovery. the possibility that a patient who has recently sustained a head injury might develop an acute intracranial hematoma can never be completely discounted, even when there are no abnormal clinical signs, and a skull x-ray retains a useful place in the investigation of selected patients with a minor head injury.
increased epidermal growth factor receptors in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons of patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome. seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons may change in biologic behavior with pregnancy or during treatment with sex steroids. because epidermal growth factor receptor localization may change in hyperproliferative skin diseases, we compared epidermal growth factor receptor immunolocalization in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women who were or were not pregnant or taking oral sex steroid hormones. epidermal growth factor receptor was further investigated in growing and quiescent seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women with and without the dysplastic nevus syndrome. the epidermal growth factor receptor concentration was strikingly elevated in suprabasilar keratinocytes of growing seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome who were pregnant or taking sex steroid hormones and less elevated in growing seborrheic keratoses from other patients. in contrast, the epidermal growth factor receptor distribution pattern in acrochordons did not correlate as well with the history of growth of these lesions in normal patients. these data suggest sex steroids may affect epidermal growth factor receptor metabolism in benign epidermal hyperproliferative lesions, particularly in patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome.
effect of delayed captopril therapy on left ventricular mass and myonecrosis during acute coxsackievirus murine myocarditis. the effect of captopril on coxsackievirus b3 murine myocarditis was investigated. thirty-two, 3-week-old mice were infected with coxsackievirus b3 on day 0 of the study, then randomized into a placebo group or a captopril group starting on day 3 of infection. on day 9 of infection, the mice were put to death. hearts were weighed and processed for light microscopic examination. heart weight was 125 +/- 19 mg in the control group versus 102 +/- 14 mg in the captopril group (p less than 0.0003). amount of necrosis as a percentage of left ventricular section was 3.5% (2.0% to 7.5%) in the placebo group versus 2.0% (0.0% to 5.0%) in the captopril group (p less than 0.01). the amount of dystrophic calcification was 5.0% (0.0% to 27.5%) in the placebo group versus 1.3% (0.0% to 20.0%) in the captopril group (p less than 0.01). the extent of the histopathologic involvement by planimetry was 10.2% in the placebo group versus 5.4% in the captopril group (p = 0.052). we conclude that captopril is beneficial in decreasing left ventricular mass and the amount of myocardial necrosis and calcification in the short term in the murine myocarditis model.
medical treatment and prevention of peptic ulcer disease. many agents seem to be equally effective for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. this is true despite the drugs' varied mechanisms of action, and this observation has caused investigators to shift their focus from aggressive to defensive factors when studying ulcer pathogenesis. patients with a healed ulcer are always at risk for recurrence, and guidelines are available for management of these patients. ulcer prevention becomes a crucial issue in intensive care units where critically ill patients have many known risk factors. maintaining a gastric ph above 4.0 appears to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with such stress-induced ulcers. use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increases ulcer risk and complications in the elderly, in women with rheumatoid arthritis, and in smokers and abusers of alcohol. prophylaxis with the synthetic prostaglandin analogue misoprostol (cytotec) appears to reduce this risk.
esophageal involvement in pemphigus vulgaris: a clinical, histologic, and immunopathologic study. eleven newly diagnosed patients and one patient with pemphigus vulgaris who relapsed underwent endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract. three patients had blisters or erosions and two had longitudinal lines of erythema in the esophageal mucosa. in four patients histopathologic examination showed findings of pemphigus vulgaris but direct immunofluorescence was positive in all patients. this study demonstrates that the immunopathologic disturbance in pemphigus vulgaris involves the entire length of the esophagus, although only some patients have clinical or histologic involvement. to the best of our knowledge this is the first histopathologic and direct immunofluorescence study of esophageal involvement in patients with untreated pemphigus vulgaris.
endoscopic findings in yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis. the endoscopic findings in the colon and terminal ileum in eight cases of yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis infection were studied. the diagnosis was based on the isolation of y. enterocolitica in the feces and/or elevated serum antibody titers to the organism. total colonoscopy was performed between 7 and 38 days (mean, 24 days) after the onset of symptoms. in all patients, the terminal ileum was affected, followed by frequent involvement of the ileocecal valve and the cecum, and less frequently, the ascending colon. in the terminal ileum, round or oval elevations with or without ulcers were detected. small ulcers were detected on the ileocecal valve and in the cecum. these findings were observed even 4 to 5 weeks after the onset of symptoms, suggesting a relatively long course for this disease.
estrogen receptor level determines sex-specific in vitro transcription from the xenopus vitellogenin promoter. female-specific expression of the xenopus laevis vitellogenin gene was reconstituted in vitro by addition of recombinant vaccinia-virus-produced estrogen receptor to nuclear extracts from male livers, in which this gene is silent. transcription enhancement was at least 30 times and was selectively restricted to vitellogenin templates containing the estrogen-responsive unit. thus, in male hepatocytes, estrogen receptor is the limiting regulatory factor that in the female liver controls efficient and accurate sex-specific expression of the vitellogenin gene. furthermore, the xenopus liver factor b, which is essential in addition to the estrogen receptor for the activation of this gene, was successfully replaced in the xenopus extract by purified human nuclear factor i, identifying factor b of xenopus as a functional homolog of this well-characterized human transcription factor.
left ventricular diastolic dysfunction presenting as ascites: the importance of clinically assessing central venous pressure. a 66-year-old man without history of heart disease or symptoms of left ventricular (lv) failure was admitted with transudative ascites. echocardiography showed no valvular or pericardial disease and normal lv function. gated pool scintigraphy confirmed normal lv systolic function but demonstrated severe right ventricular systolic dysfunction. catheterization revealed left ventricular diastolic dysfunction as the cause of right-sided failure. the clinician evaluating transudative ascites cannot exclude lv failure on the basis of noninvasive assessment of systolic function alone. appreciation of an elevated central venous pressure remains the most important evidence of a cardiac source of ascites.
the relationship of "high risk" mammographic patterns to histological risk factors for development of cancer in the human breast. in the uk trial for the early detection of breast cancer in nottingham, 119 women were identified as having fibrocystic change with epithelial hyperplasia or in situ carcinoma. their mammograms were classified according to wolfe's criteria and the corresponding histology for each patient was classified for degrees of epithelial hyperplasia, atypia and in situ neoplasia using page's criteria. a control population of patients presenting for breast screening was used to represent the general population. no correlation was found between the four mammographic wolfe patterns, n1, p1, p2 and dy and histological evidence of epithelial hyperplasia, atypia or in situ carcinoma. a further study was carried out to determine histological features of wolfe pattern, using radiological examination of resected breast tissue. the variation in wolfe pattern was related to the distribution of fibrous and adipose tissue in the breast interlobular stroma and appeared to have no relationship to epithelial parenchymal content. this information does not support the hypothesis that radiographic densities of p2 and dy patterns correspond to high risk epithelial proliferation.
five-year experience with triple-drug immunosuppressive therapy in cardiac transplantation. although triple-drug immunosuppression with a combination of cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine has been shown to improve short-term survival after cardiac transplantation, its long-term effects still are unknown. from december 1983 through december 1988, all patients (n = 139) who underwent orthotopic cardiac transplant at our institution received triple-drug immunosuppressant therapy. follow-up averaged 32.2 +/- 15.8 months. twenty-one patients died; 134 survived more than 30 days. actuarial survival was 92% at 1 year, 85% at 3 years, and 78% at 5 years. twenty-five episodes of acute graft rejection were diagnosed in 21 of the 139 recipients (0.18 episode per patient). in patients, the incidence of infection was 0.82 episode; 72% of infections were viral, with 10% due to cytomegalovirus. the incidence of coronary artery disease was 10% at 1 year, 25% at 3 years, and 36% at 5 years. coronary artery disease was responsible for 60% of late deaths. arterial hypertension developed in 81% of patients, despite relatively well-maintained renal function (serum creatinine, 1.7 +/- 0.3 mg/dl). skeletal complications occurred in 15.8% and lymphoma in 1.4% of recipients. complete long-term rehabilitation was achieved in all but two of the surviving patients. these data support the short- and long-term effectiveness of triple-drug therapy. this regimen reduces the incidence of rejection, infection, and lymphoma, as well as the degree of renal failure. however, the incidence of posttransplant coronary artery disease has not been reduced, and graft atherosclerosis represents the major cause of late graft failure and death.
nephrotic syndrome complicating adenocarcinoma of the lung with resolution after resection. nephrotic syndrome is an uncommon complication of lung cancer. we present a case in which adenocarcinoma was complicated by the nephrotic syndrome, which resolved after resection of the cancer.
effects of felodipine on urinary albumin excretion and metabolic control in hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetics. the effect of a blood pressure reduction by 10 mg extended release felodipine once daily on urinary albumin excretion (uae) as well as the possible diabetogenic effect of felodipine was studied. a 2 x 12 week placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study was performed in 12 hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic (niddm) patients without nephropathy on concomitant treatment with beta-blocker and/or a diuretic agent. metabolic control as estimated by fasting plasma glucose, hemoglobin a1c and fasting plasma c-peptide was unaltered after felodipine. blood pressure was significantly reduced by felodipine: systolic 166 +/- 26 mm hg (placebo) v 153 +/- 26 mm hg (felodipine) (p less than .05) and diastolic 95 +/- 7 mm hg v 90 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than .05). heart rate was unchanged. there was no correlation between blood pressure and uae, but the relative change in uae expressed as uae placebo/uae felodipine was significantly correlated to the fall in systolic blood pressure (r = 0.64, p = .03) and mean blood pressure (r = 0.66, p = .02). since microalbuminuria predicts proteinuria and reduced survival, early antihypertensive treatment may be beneficial in niddm as it is in iddm. long-term consequences on kidney function and mortality remains, however, to be elucidated.
experimental oral foreign body reactions: vegetable materials. foreign bodies and tissue reactions to foreign materials are commonly encountered in the oral cavity. exogenous materials most commonly causing foreign body reactions are metallic in origin (usually amalgam). of the nonmetallic materials seen during biopsies, suture materials and vegetable matter are most often observed. since many foodstuff foreign materials are unidentifiable histologically, common vegetables were experimentally implanted subcutaneously in rats to assess local host responses and to characterize the nature of these materials microscopically. the histologic characteristics of these vegetable foreign body reactions are detailed herein. the implanted materials correspond to reactions seen in human subjects.
estimation of reynolds stresses within the penn state left ventricular assist device. fluid velocities were measured using a two-component laser doppler anemometery (lda) system at 129 locations within a plexiglas model of a 70 cm3 penn state electric left ventricular assist device (lvad). the lvad was driven by a pulsatile piston pump acting on an attached segmented polyurethane diaphragm. bjork-shiley tilting disc valves were used to provide unidirectional flow through the inlet and outlet ports. a seeded blood analog fluid, which matched the kinematic viscosity of blood at high shear rates and the refractive index of plexiglas, was used to make the measurements. at each location, 250 instantaneous velocity realizations were collected at eight instances during the pump cycle. the maximum reynolds shear and normal stresses were calculated for each pump cycle time and location after filtering the data. the results reveal that the highest reynolds shear and normal stresses occur in the near wall region just proximal to the aortic valve during diastole, and reach values of 5,300 dynes/cm2 and 10,800 dynes/cm2, respectively. the elevated turbulent stresses are observed during the period of regurgitant flow through the aortic valve, with peak stress values arising during the period of peak regurgitant flow. this supports the hypothesis that a regurgitant turbulent jet is formed near the wall of the prosthetic aortic valve and may be contributing to blood damage.
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia. we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen, cow milk beta-lactoglobulin (blg) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms. sixteen patients (77% of those with arthralgia) responded to diet (rd) with marked reduction of symptoms; the others did not respond (nr). ten (all but one rd with arthralgia) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk. four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia. in all cases, specific ige to cow milk was absent. these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria, and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet, are related to excess intestinal permeability. the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction.
balloon catheter tamponade in cardiovascular wounds. from 1980 to 1990, operative balloon catheter tamponade was used in 12 patients with cardiac or vascular injuries from penetrating wounds. in nine patients, a balloon catheter was passed into a bleeding site through a bullet track or proximal artery and inflated with saline or radiologic dye. in two of these patients, the proximal balloon catheter was folded on itself, tied in that position, and left in the patient permanently. in the other seven patients in this group, the balloon catheter was attached to a three-way stopcock and left temporarily inflated postoperatively. these patients were then observed in the intensive care unit for 3 to 4 days, at which time the balloon was withdrawn. eight of nine patients survived without recurrent hemorrhage after removal of the balloon catheter, while one patient with a fogarty balloon placed in the carotid siphon died of a cerebral infarction. balloon catheter tamponade was also used on a temporary basis in one patient with a posterior cardiac wound and in one patient with an anterior stab wound of the inferior vena cava at the renal veins, whereas in two patients with high cervical arteriovenous fistulas, one had permanent placement of the balloon catheter while the other had temporary placement. one of the latter patients also had acute hemorrhage. although all four patients survived, one of the patients with a fistula developed a recurrence and another required two separate operative procedures for correct placement of the balloon to cure the fistula.
the role of the facial nerve latency test in the prognosis of bell's palsy. eighty patients with idiopathic facial nerve palsy were evaluated by the facial nerve latency test. depending on the latency time, the patients were classified into the following four groups: group a patients had normal latency times (3.25 msec); group b patients had slightly extended latency times (4 to 7 msec) and a mean of 5.6 msec; group c patients had extended latency times (10 to 14 msec) and a mean of 10.2 msec; and group d patients displayed complete disappearance of evoked compound muscle action potential (no responses). under the same therapeutic regimen, it was determined that, when the latency time was normal or close to normal, the functional recovery of the nerve was complete or almost complete, and the recovery time was short. when the latency time was extended or there was no response, the functional recovery of the nerve was either incomplete or absent.
adenoidectomy in otitis media. a review. for many years adenoids were thought to affect adversely middle ear (me) aeration by obstructing the eustachian tube opening, leading to me infections and effusions. consequently, the adenoids have often been removed in children suffering from me diseases; indeed, adenoidectomy is still performed around the globe on millions of children annually. opinions vary, however, on the usefulness of the operation in various me diseases. the purpose of this study is to review the available studies concerning the relationship of adenoids to the me as well as the effect and benefit of adenoidectomy on me effusions and me infections.
dna analysis of multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas. the authors used retrospective quantitative dna analysis to study interrelationships between multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas in seven patients. dna content was determined by image analysis on feulgen-stained nuclear smears prepared from multiple paraffin blocks from each tumor. tumors were unilateral in four cases and bilateral in three. ten tumors had homogeneous, and four heterogeneous dna stemlines. intertumoral heterogeneity in four cases suggested multifocal origin. identical dna aneuploid indices in bilateral tumors in one case suggested metastasis from a solitary origin. abnormal dna content and heterogeneous populations began to appear in the size range 2.0 to 5.0 cm. all tumors over 5.0 cm contained nondiploid populations. although the interrelationships between these multiple synchronous neoplasms are not entirely clear, the dna analysis suggests that the occurrence of nondiploid stemlines and heterogeneous dna content may parallel both tumor growth and more aggressive behavior.
rectopexy is an ineffective treatment for obstructed defecation. the symptoms of obstructed defecation have been attributed to rectal intussusception, and thus rectopexy has been advocated in the surgical management. in this study, patients with obstructed defecation underwent manometry and proctography before and after rectopexy. seventeen patients (16 females and one male, mean age 51.6 years) were studied. eleven underwent anterior and posterior fixation of the rectum and six had posterior fixation only. preoperatively five patients demonstrated rectoanal intussusceptions. fifteen had significant pelvic descent. no significant change in maximum resting pressure, maximum voluntary contraction, pelvic descent, or anorectal angle was seen postoperatively. in the initial follow-up, many patients had significant amelioration of symptoms. however, on longer follow-up (mean 30.8 months) only two had long-term improvement. the remainder had a poor clinical result in spite of complete resolution of rectal intussusception. many reported a worsening of symptoms as reflected by an increase in tenesmus and stool frequency. in the two cases with a satisfactory result, both could empty the rectum completely and demonstrated rectoanal intussusception on preoperative evacuation proctography. in those with poor results, four had complete emptying and three had rectoanal intussusception. in conclusion rectopexy is an ineffective treatment for obstructive defecation in most patients.
radiation necrosis of the optic chiasm, optic tract, hypothalamus, and upper pons after radiotherapy for pituitary adenoma, detected by gadolinium-enhanced, t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging: case report. a 26-year-old woman was treated for a prolactin secreting pituitary adenoma by surgery and radiotherapy (5860 rads). fourteen months later, she developed right hemiparesis and dysarthria. a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan using gadolinium contrast showed a small, enhanced lesion in the upper pons. seven months later, she had a sudden onset of loss of vision, and radiation optic neuropathy was diagnosed. a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan showed widespread gadolinium-enhanced lesions in the optic chiasm, optic tract, and hypothalamus. magnetic resonance imaging is indispensable for the early diagnosis of radiation necrosis, which is not visualized by radiography or computed tomography.
growth hormone inhibits tumor metastasis. the effect of growth hormone on tumor growth and metabolism in the tumor-bearing host is unknown. this study was done to determine the effect of recombinant growth hormone on primary tumor growth, tumor metastasis, and carcass weight in tumor-bearing animals. twenty-seven female lobund/wistar rats with subcutaneous prostate tumor implants (pa-iii) were randomized to receive a standard protein diet (22.0% protein; 4.27 kcal/g) or an isocaloric, protein-depleted diet (0.03% protein; 4.27 kcal/g) ad libitum orally. one half of the animals in each group were randomized to receive daily injections of either recombinant growth hormone (1000 mu/kg/day intramuscularly) or placebo (saline) for 14 days. a significant increase in body weight was observed in growth hormone-treated animals without acceleration of primary tumor growth. spontaneous pulmonary metastasis was inhibited significantly in animals in both dietary groups treated with growth hormone. thus, growth hormone selectively supports host growth and inhibits pulmonary metastasis in this tumor-bearing animal model. the potential metabolic effects and clinical consequences of treating cancer patients with growth hormone is discussed.
ldh isoenzymes in cerebrospinal fluid in various brain tumours. this study examined the isoenzymatic pattern of ldh in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) as well as the ratio between the five fractions of ldh among patients with various brain tumours, carcinomatous meningitis and control groups. ldh 1/ldh 2 less than 1 was found significant for carcinomatous meningitis (p less than 0.001) and brain metastases (p less than 0.001). ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio was found to be significantly lower in carcinomatous meningitis than in brain metastases (p less than 0.05). no ldh 1/ldh 2 ratios smaller than 1 were found in the other groups. the ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio smaller than 1 was found in the early stage of carcinomatous meningitis without other evidences of the involvement of the leptomeninges. examination of ldh 1/ldh 2 can be found as an adjunctive method to identify brain metastases and carcinomatous meningitis at the initial stage.
treatment of childhood angiomatous diseases with recombinant interferon alfa-2a. a heterogeneous group of five patients with progressive, invasive angiomatous diseases including pulmonary hemangiomatosis, angiosarcoma, or massive hemangioma with associated consumptive coagulopathy were treated with interferon alfa-2a for periods of 17 to 33 months. one patient with a large thoracic hemangioma, cardiorespiratory failure, and consumptive coagulopathy died after less than 2 months of treatment. the remaining four patients have shown beneficial responses, including (1) regression of abnormal vessels on pulmonary angiogram and improved exercise tolerance in pulmonary hemangiomatosis (two patients), (2) decreased corticosteroid and/or platelet transfusion requirements in consumptive coagulopathy (two patients), and (3) decreased size and number of tumor nodules in the one patient with angiosarcoma arising in preexisting angiomatous lesions. responses occurred during periods of 2 to 20 months of treatment. there was no measurable progression of angiomatous lesions in any patient receiving interferon at the therapeutic dose, except possibly in the one who died. each of the four surviving patients had improved linear growth and weight gain during interferon treatment.
continuity of cancer care. the importance of providing continuity in the care of all patients with major medical problems, such as cancer, has widespread acceptance in our current health care system. from the perspective of an oncology social work clinician, this article offers a definition of the concept of continuity of care, examines factors influencing its provision in oncology, and reviews key components in continuity of cancer care planning and implementation. it also examines some innovative efforts in practice to improve continuity.
penetration of lanthanum through the main pancreatic duct epithelium in cats following exposure to infected human bile. the main pancreatic duct epithelium acts as a barrier to the diffusion of molecules from the duct lumen into pancreatic acinar and interstitial tissue. we studied sequential ultrastructural characteristics of the loss of epithelial barrier function in the cat using lanthanum, an electron-opaque tracer, following perfusion of the duct from the tail to the duodenum with infected human bile. tight junctions between duct epithelial cells were found to become permeable to the tracer as early as after 15 min of exposure. later, there was progressive disintegration of intercellular junctions and epithelial loss. lanthanum penetrated the duct epithelium exclusively on an intercellular path. loss of barrier function of the pancreatic duct epithelium was consistently associated with subsequent development of acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis. there was no association between the degree of duct epithelial damage and the severity of acute pancreatitis. both bile and a suspension of bacteria alone were not harmful to the pancreas. sequential perfusion produced acute pancreatitis only when at first bile and then the bacterial suspension was perfused. a reversed succession of perfusates produced no morphologic alterations. we conclude: (1) increased tight junction permeability is an early lesion in acute bile-induced pancreatitis: (2) loss of duct epithelial barrier function is important for the initiation but not for the severity of the inflammation; and (3) bile renders duct epithelial intercellular junctions vulnerable to escherichia coli bacteria.
venous infarction following the interhemispheric approach in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. postoperative venous infarction following aneurysm surgery was studied in 48 patients with anterior communicating artery aneurysms operated on through the interhemispheric approach at the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). of 23 patients whose bridging veins were sacrificed during surgery, 11 (47.8%) showed venous infarction in the frontal lobes. in contrast, only one (5.9%) of 17 patients whose bridging veins were preserved developed cerebral edema. none of eight patients who were operated on after day 11 (the day of sah was defined as day 0) showed this complication, although bridging veins were sacrificed in six of them. venous infarction following acute aneurysm surgery tended to occur more frequently in patients of higher sah grade and/or more advanced age, but these correlations were not significant. however, the correlation between the sacrifice of veins and venous infarction was significant (p less than 0.025). because this potential complication may compromise the benefit of acute aneurysm surgery and cause damage, it is important to preserve the venous system and in some instances to select another surgical approach based on the pattern of venous drainage in the frontal lobe.
diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography. the presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations. this flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood. we demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations. the mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds, with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations. the presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia. therefore, the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value. however, our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation, namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation.
functional and metabolic effects of bupivacaine and lignocaine in the rat heart-lung preparation. we have examined the effects of bupivacaine and lignocaine on myocardial metabolism in the rat isolated heart-lung preparation. bupivacaine 1, 5 or 25 micrograms ml-1 or lignocaine 4, 20 or 100 micrograms ml-1 was administered 5 min after the start of perfusion. both bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 and lignocaine 100 micrograms ml-1 reduced heart rate significantly. bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 was associated with a higher incidence of arrhythmias than the other groups. three hearts in the bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 group (n = 8) and two hearts in the lignocaine 100 micrograms ml-1 group (n = 8) failed (zero cardiac output) at the end of the experiment. although there were no significant differences in myocardial lactate and glycogen concentrations between groups, atp content in the bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 and lignocaine 100 micrograms ml-1 groups was significantly less than that in the control group. the results suggest that myocardial depression and subsequent metabolic deterioration occurred with both the high doses of local anaesthetics; these findings do not account for the apparent increased cardiotoxicity of bupivacaine.
events associated with rupture of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation devices. nineteen intra-aortic balloon (iab) ruptures occurred in sixteen patients during a three-year period. perforation occurred secondary to abrasion with material failure or mishandling of the device during insertion. to avoid serious sequelae, it is important to be aware of the possibility of iab rupture and to remove any defective device immediately upon recognition of an event.
intermittent pneumatic compression to prevent proximal deep venous thrombosis during and after total hip replacement. a prospective, randomized study of compression alone, compression and aspirin, and compression and low-dose warfarin. a prospective, randomized study of the effectiveness of intraoperative and postoperative use of intermittent pneumatic compression, alone or in combination with oral administration of either aspirin or low-dose warfarin, was done of a consecutive series of patients who had a total hip replacement and were more than thirty-nine years old. all patients began walking by the third postoperative day. one hundred and ninety-six patients who had 217 total hip arthroplasties were included. twenty-eight per cent of the procedures were revisions of a previous total hip replacement or of an endoprosthesis, and the remainder were primary arthroplasties. patients were randomized as to the type of prophylaxis that they received: intermittent pneumatic compression alone, seventy-six hips; intermittent pneumatic compression and aspirin, seventy-two hips; or intermittent pneumatic compression and low-dose warfarin, sixty-nine hips. before discharge from the hospital, and at an average of seven days after the operation, all patients were evaluated for the presence of proximal deep-vein thrombosis with either venography on the side of the operation or with bilateral venous ultrasonography. the relative frequency with which thrombosis occurred in a proximal vein was not significantly different in the three groups; the over-all relative frequency was 10 per cent. intermittent compression during and after the operation effectively reduces the rate of proximal-vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. with the number of patients in our study, the effectiveness of this technique could not be shown to be augmented by oral administration of either aspirin or low-dose warfarin.
detection of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty: improved clinical decision making with use of a logistic model combining procedural and follow-up variables. a prospective study of 111 patients who underwent repeat coronary angiography and exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy 6 +/- 2 months after complete revascularization by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed to assess whether clinical, procedure-related and postangioplasty exercise variables yield independent information for the prediction of angiographic restenosis after angioplasty. complete revascularization was defined as successful angioplasty of one or more vessels that resulted in no residual coronary lesion with greater than 50% diameter stenosis. restenosis was defined as a residual stenosis at the time of repeat angiography of greater than 50% of luminal diameter. restenosis occurred in 40% of the patients. the 111 patients were randomly subdivided into a learning group (n = 84) and a testing group (n = 27). a logistic discriminant analysis was performed in the learning group and the logistic model was used to estimate a logistic probability of restenosis. this probability of restenosis was validated in the testing group. in the learning group of 84 patients univariate analysis of 39 factors revealed 8 factors related to restenosis: recurrence of angina (p less than 0.0001), postangioplasty abnormal finding on exercise thallium-201 scintigram (p less than 0.0001), exercise thallium-201 scintigram score (p less than 0.0001), difference between exercise and rest st segment depression (p less than 0.001), postangioplasty exercise st segment depression (p less than 0.001), absolute postangioplasty stenosis diameter (p less than 0.003), postangioplasty exercise work load (p less than 0.03) and postangioplasty exercise heart rate (p less than 0.05).
genetics of cerebrovascular disease. stroke is a complex disease, with both genetic and environmental factors having a role in its pathogenesis. a review of past studies shows some evidence of genetic influences in the development of stroke. this is supported by studies of cardiovascular disease, which indicate major genetic influences at several levels including the development of risk factors. new approaches to phenotypic classifications, patient ascertainment, and genetic analysis will stimulate research into the role of genetics in cerebrovascular disease.
treatment of ventricular tachycardia induced cardiogenic shock by percoronary chemical ablation. incessant ventricular arrhythmias pose an especially challenging therapeutic dilemma. we describe the successful treatment and follow-up of a patient with refractory ventricular tachycardia-induced cardiogenic shock with percoronary chemical ablation. after endocardial mapping was used to identify the "tachycardia-related" coronary artery, temporary termination of the arrhythmia with balloon occlusion and subselective intracoronary installation of iced saline as previously advocated was unsuccessful. this was probably due to a dual arterial blood supply to the arrhythmogenic focus. however, infusion of 2 cc ethanol (99%) permanently terminated the arrhythmia. contrary to previous experience, ethanol-induced arrhythmia termination did not result in arterial occlusion, further supporting a direct toxic effect on the myocardium as its mode of action. use of standard angioplasty balloon inflation prevents "backwash" of distally infused ethanol and more generalized cell death. the only complication of this procedure was temporary third-degree av block, requiring permanent pacemaker implantation.
coronary angioplasty in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. the applications for coronary angioplasty have greatly expanded and the procedure is now increasingly used in complex and potentially high risk conditions. this report describes the short- and long-term effects of coronary angioplasty in 61 patients with severely depressed left ventricular function (ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%) with unstable or refractory anginal symptoms, or both, in whom revascularization was necessary despite increased risk. in a retrospective analysis of 1,260 patients undergoing angioplasty between january 1985 through december 1987, 61 had an ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%. the common clinical presentation was unstable angina (70%) with or without recent myocardial infarction. mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 27 +/- 6%. forty-five patients (74%) had multivessel disease. clinical success after angioplasty was achieved in 55 patients (90%). major complications (death, infarction and emergency bypass surgery) occurred in five patients (8.2%), with death in two (3.2%). during long-term (mean 21 +/- 11 months) follow-up study of the 55 patients with successful angioplasty, 13 (23%) died, including 3 of noncardiac causes, and 11 (20%) had clinically symptomatic recurrence. continued clinical success was present in 39 patients (71%), of whom 28 (51%) were event-free patients and 11 (20%) had clinical recurrence; a successful second angioplasty procedure was performed in 9 because of restenosis. thus, in patients with depressed left ventricular function, coronary angioplasty can be performed with a short-term success rate comparable to that of routine angioplasty or surgical procedures. however, acute complications are more frequent and the late mortality rate is higher than in patients with less depressed function.
absorption of carbon 13-labeled rice in milk by infants during acute gastroenteritis. to determine whether rice cereal could be used to complement a cow milk-based diet in the nutritional management of infants with acute diarrhea, we assessed its digestion and absorption in eight affected male infants, 69 to 131 days of age. they received cow milk formula with 5.4% lactose (diluted 1:1 with water and precooked rice cereal) 5 to 22 hours after admission and rehydration. the first feeding consisted of milk diluted with carbon 13-enriched rice cereal. a 48-hour fecal collection and balance study was performed. rice cereal was reasonably well absorbed (84.0% to 95.8%) by seven of the eight infants. the study was repeated in seven of the infants after they had recovered. our results indicated that rice cereal is well absorbed by young infants with acute diarrhea and that it is an adequate nutrient supplement for this patient population.
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients. a multiparameter approach. forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic, immunocytochemical, flow cytometric (fcm), cytogenetic, and molecular studies. there were 29 lymphomas (15 small non-cleaved cell [sncl], 11 large cell [lcl], one small lymphocytic, and two hodgkin's), 14 reactive hyperplasias, and three "atypical lymphoid proliferations." the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations; six of seven were diploid on fcm, the seventh was hypodiploid. higher proliferative indices (mean, 11.6%) and higher rna indices (mean, 1.2) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity. aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred. nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction. jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa, lambda, b1, and leu-4. nine of 12 sncl were diploid; the mean proliferative index was 25.6% and the mean rna index 2.3. chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped. five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype. large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0% and mean rna index of 2.2. one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation. despite the multiparameter approach, a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates.
radiologic staging of chest in testicular seminoma. we investigated the usefulness of chest x-ray (cxr), conventional planar tomography (tom), and computerized axial tomography (cat) in evaluating patients with stages i and ii testicular seminoma. all patients had a cxr, and 22 patients had either tom or cat as part of initial staging. no occult pulmonary or mediastinal nodal disease was found during initial staging, and none of the patients manifested recurrence of tumor in these sites as a first event. review of the literature corroborates our finding of a very small thoracic failure rate in early stage seminoma. routine use of cat or tom is not indicated in staging these patients.
nasal augmentation with split calvarial grafts in orientals. this study reports on my experience with autogenous split calvarial grafts in nasal augmentation in 62 orientals. in 78 percent of patients, the procedure was performed under local anesthesia in an outpatient setting. total operating time for harvesting of split calvarial grafts ranged from 20 to 55 minutes, with a mean of 32 minutes. patients ranged in age from 16 to 48 years, with a mean of 27 years. follow-up was from 6 months to 8 years, with an average of 3.1 years. intraoperative discomfort was uniformly low and well tolerated when local anesthesia was used. the complication rate was 8.0 percent, with three cases of minor seroma-hematoma formation at the bone-graft donor site. these were treated with aspiration. there were two recipient-site complications, with one case of complete bone resorption that occurred in a densely fibrotic nose with preexisting septal perforation and a case of overcorrection that was successfully rasped 1 year later. because of their easy accessibility beneath the scalp, split calvarial grafts to the nose are useful in various types of nasal augmentation, and the technique is offered as a practical alternative to the use of alloplastic materials.
prognosis and prognostic factors of retinal infarction: a prospective cohort study. objective--to determine the prognosis and adverse prognostic factors in patients with retinal infarction due to presumed atheromatous thromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism. design--prospective cohort study. setting--university hospital departments of clinical neurology. patients--99 patients with retinal infarction, without prior stroke, referred to a single neurologist between 1976 and 1986 and evaluated and followed up prospectively until death or the end of 1986 (mean follow up 4.2 years). interventions--cerebral angiography (55 patients), aspirin treatment (37), oral anticoagulant treatment (eight), carotid endarterectomy (13), cardiac surgery (six), and peripheral vascular surgery (two). main outcome measures--death, stroke, coronary events, contralateral retinal infarction; survival analysis confined to 98 patients with retinal infarction due to presumed artheromatous thromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism (one patient with giant cell arteries excluded), and cox's proportional hazards regression analysis, including age as a prognostic factor. results--during follow up 29 patients died (21 of vascular causes and eight of non-vascular or unknown causes), 10 had a first ever stroke, 19 had a coronary event, and only one developed contralateral retinal infarction. a coronary event accounted for more than half (59%) of the deaths whereas stroke was the cause of only one death (3%). over the first five years after retinal infarction the actuarial average absolute risk of death was 8% per year; of stroke 2.5% per year (7.4% in the first year); of coronary events 5.3% per year, exceeding that of stroke; and of stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death 7.4% per year. prognostic factors associated with an increased risk of death were increasing age, peripheral vascular disease, cardiomegaly, and carotid bruit. adverse prognostic factors for serious vascular events were increasing age and carotid bruit for stroke, and increasing age, cardiomegaly, and carotid bruit both for coronary events and for stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death. conclusions--patients who present with retinal infarction due to presumed atherothromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism are at considerable risk of a coronary event. the risk of stroke, although high, is not so great. not all strokes occurring after retinal infarction relate directly to disease of the ipsilateral carotid system, although this is probably the most common cause. few patients experience contralateral retinal infarction. non-arteritic retinal infarction should be diagnosed or confirmed by an ophthalmologist, and the long term care of patients with the condition should involve a physician who has an active interest in managing vascular disease.
fulminant pseudomonal keratitis and scleritis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection are predisposed to fungal, parasitic, and viral infections. bacterial infection can also be seen, although ocular bacterial infections have not been reported in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome until recently. we present two cases of pseudomonas corneoscleritis and one case of pseudomonas keratitis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that failed to respond to antibiotic treatment. predisposing factors included extended-wear soft contact lens use in one patient and exposure secondary to bell's palsy in another patient. all three patients had neutropenia that may have contributed to their poor response to treatment. enucleation was required to treat two patients with overwhelming infection. enucleation has been rarely required for treatment of corneoscleritis in immunocompetent patients treated at our institution. pseudomonas keratitis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients represents a serious ocular infection requiring early diagnosis and aggressive treatment.
scleroderma and central nervous system vasculitis. we describe a patient with scleroderma (crest syndrome) and central nervous system vasculitis. while angiography demonstrated segmental symmetrical arterial narrowing characteristic of vasculitis, results of leptomeningeal biopsy were normal. there was no evidence of systemic vasculitis, renal failure, or malignant hypertension previously thought to be required to explain central nervous system dysfunction in patients with scleroderma. signs and symptoms attributable to vasculitis were reversible with aggressive immunosuppressive therapy.
use of cytoplasmic 5'nucleotidase for differentiating malignant from benign monoclonal gammopathies. bone marrow smears from 15 patients with multiple myeloma, 15 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (mgus), and 15 control subjects were examined for the presence of cytoplasmic 5'nucleotidase (c5nt) in plasma cells. plasma cell positivity for c5nt (mean and 95% confidence interval) in patients with multiple myeloma numbered 46.4% (38.0-54.8%), in those with mgus it was 15.3% (11.1-19.6%), and in control subjects it was 1.2% (0.3-2.1%). these findings indicate that c5nt can be used to differentiate benign from malignant monoclonal gammopathies.
rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery. we analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery. in all five cases, thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen. the mean +/- sd shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 +/- 0.4 mm. our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion, which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion.
argon green (514 nm) versus krypton red (647 nm) modified grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema. between 1984 and 1988, 225 eyes of 132 patients were entered in a prospective, randomized clinical trial to determine if any significant differences exist between treatment with argon green (514 nm) and krypton red (647 nm) modified grid laser photocoagulation for patients with diffuse diabetic maculopathy with or without cystoid macular edema. at the 12- and 24-month follow-up visits, no statistically significant difference was found between the two groups with respect to all of the following: reduction or elimination of macular edema, improvement in visual acuity, worsening of visual acuity, number of treatments per eye, and effect on the visual field. at the 12-month follow-up visit, none of the following factors statistically affected the visual outcome in either of the two groups: a history of systemic hypertension, systemic vascular disease, cystoid macular edema, or initial poor visual acuity.
etiologic and clinical evaluation of acute lower respiratory tract infections in young argentinian children: an overview. this paper summarizes the first study on clinical, etiologic, and epidemiologic features of acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) in children in argentina. a total of 1,003 children less than 5 years of age (805 inpatients and 198 outpatients) presenting with alri were studied during a 40-month period. nasopharyngeal aspirate (npa), blood, urine, and throat-swab samples were collected when each child was first seen for care. virologic studies were performed on the npa by means of indirect immunofluorescence and isolation of virus in cell culture. bacteriologic studies primarily were done by means of culture of blood or pleural fluid (when available); bordetella pertussis and mycoplasma pneumoniae, however, were searched for by the use of immunofluorescence and complement-fixation testing, respectively, in paired sera. respiratory syncytial virus was the most commonly isolated virus, followed by adenovirus, parainfluenza virus, and influenza virus. streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequently isolated bacterium, followed by b. pertussis and haemophilus influenzae type b. overall, the patient fatality rate was 3.8% among inpatients with pneumonia or bronchiolitis.
patient compliance--a factor in facial trauma repair. the clinical records of 25 consecutive patients who were treated for facial trauma were reviewed and analyzed to ascertain what effect patient cooperation had on the outcome of facial fracture repair. the study was designed to establish the incidence of complications and to discover what factors contributed to untoward sequela in such patients. overall, 15 patients (60%) were noncompliant in one or more aspects of their care. six patients (24%) had significant postoperative complications associated with their facial injuries. four of these patients were not fully cooperative.
plasma thrombomodulin in health and diseases. sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblot analysis of plasma thrombomodulin concentrate revealed that four degraded forms of thrombomodulin with different molecular weights are present in plasma. plasma concentrations of thrombomodulin in patients with various diseases were measured by two methods of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies. one method measures intact thrombomodulin and degraded forms of thrombomodulin; the other does not detect the two smaller degraded forms of thrombomodulin present in plasma. the results indicated that thrombomodulin was increased in the circulating blood of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome, pulmonary thromboembolism, adult respiratory distress syndrome, chronic renal failure, or acute hepatic failure. the different values obtained by the two methods indicate that the increase of plasma thrombomodulin found in these patients was mainly due to an increase of the smaller fragments of degraded forms, suggesting that the release of thrombomodulin from endothelial cells was accelerated in various disease states by proteolytic activity generated on the surface of the endothelium and may be removed from the circulation mostly by the kidneys and liver.
the importance of calcium ions for in vitro malignant hyperthermia testing. intracellular ca++ levels in skeletal muscle are elevated during the in vitro contracture response of muscle from subjects with malignant hyperthermia. the role of ca++ in the bathing medium and the consequences of substitution of sr++ for ca++ in the response to agents associated with malignant hyperthermia were examined. when ca++ was omitted from the bathing medium the contractures induced in human vastus lateralis by halothane (three per cent) or succinylcholine (50 mm) were reduced by 80 and 100 per cent, respectively, while contractures induced by caffeine (8 mm) were only reduced by 50 per cent. substitution of ca++ by another divalent cation, sr++, completely restored contractures induced by caffeine, but only partially restored contractures induced by halothane or succinylcholine (to 50 and 30 per cent of ca(++)-containing medium, respectively). mepacrine (10 microm) was effective in antagonizing contractures by caffeine, whereas verapamil and nifedipine (10 microm) were not. these results support an essential role for extracellular ca++ not fulfilled by sr++ in contracture induction by halothane and succinylcholine, but not by caffeine.
serum ferritin and stomach cancer risk among a japanese population. using stored serum samples collected during from 1970 to 1972 and/or 1977 to 1979 from a fixed population in hiroshima and nagasaki, japan, serum ferritin, transferrin, and ceruloplasmin levels were determined immunologically for persons in whom stomach (233 cases) or lung cancer (84 cases) subsequently developed as well as for their controls. an elevated stomach cancer risk was associated with low antecedent serum ferritin levels, with more than a threefold excess among those in the lowest compared with the highest ferritin quintile. the risk did not vary with the time between blood collection and stomach cancer onset, remaining high among those with low ferritin levels 5 or more years before cancer diagnosis. achlorhydria, diagnosed in a sample of the population about 10 years before the 1970-to-1972 blood collection and up to 25 years before cancer, was an independent marker of stomach cancer risk. in combination, low serum ferritin and achlorhydria were associated with a tenfold increase in the subsequent risk. no effect of transferrin or ceruloplasmin, independent of ferritin, was observed in the gastric cancer risk, and the risk of lung cancer was not related to these three serum proteins. these prospective findings indicate that biologic markers of an increased risk of stomach cancer can be detected long before cancer onset.
endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary during pregnancy: a case report. serum alpha-fetoprotein screening led to the detection of an endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary in a 24-year-old female in week 17 of pregnancy. after surgery, chemotherapy was postponed. in week 28 levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein increased, but delivery was delayed until 33 weeks' gestation. after delivery, the patient received four chemotherapy courses (cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin). mother (24 months after last chemotherapy) and child are doing well.
renal autotransplantation in children: a successful treatment for renovascular hypertension. renovascular hypertension in children is not a common disease. with improved surgical technique the incidence of nephrectomy has decreased and renovascular reconstruction is currently the preferred method to manage this entity. between 1977 and 1988, 21 patients with renovascular hypertension were treated at our hospital: 7 patients 6 to 16 years old underwent renal autotransplantation. of the children 4 had unilateral and 3 had bilateral disease requiring bilateral autotransplantation. autotransplantation was performed by anastomosis of each renal artery end-to-side to the common iliac artery. the renal veins were anastomosed end-to-side to the common iliac veins. the ureters were left intact in all but 1 patient who required a bench operation. of the 4 patients who had a unilateral procedure 3 are cured and 1 is improved with a normal blood pressure on a small dose of antihypertensive medication. the 3 patients with bilateral autotransplants are cured. these results, with normalization of the blood pressure in 86% of the patients and improvement in blood pressure in 14% with a patency rate of 87%, are similar to other reported reconstructive modalities in children.
changes of hippocampal glucose utilization subsequent to amygdaloid-kindled generalized seizures. local changes in cerebral glucose utilization during the postictal phase of amygdaloid-kindled generalized seizures were studied with the quantitative autoradiographic 2-[14c]deoxyglucose method in conscious rats. measurement was initiated either just after termination of a behavioral seizure (gs-i) or 30 s after seizure termination (gs-ii) to determine dynamic metabolic changes in the postictal phase. although glucose utilization of the neocortex was remarkably depressed in both gs-i and gs-ii, that of the hippocampus significantly increased in gs-i and then decreased in gs-ii as compared with control. these changes of hippocampal glucose utilization were observed in all sectors of the pyramidal cell layer (ca 1-4) and in the molecular layer. because metabolic changes associated with development of amygdaloid-kindled seizures begin in the limbic structures including the hippocampus, the transient increase in hippocampal glucose utilization observed in the early postictal phase indicates that the hippocampus is one of the key structures not only for initiating and maintaining but also for terminating kindled seizures.
experience with childhood urolithiasis. report of 196 cases. a total of 196 children with urinary calculi were treated surgically. their ages ranged from 1 to 14 years. the male:female ratio was 3:1. stones were located in the kidney in 96 patients, in the bladder in 52 and in the ureters in 32. multiple organ involvement was present in 16 patients and associated urinary tract anomalies were found in 11. stone analysis revealed calcium oxalate and phosphate stones in 121 patients, struvite stones in 60 and uric acid stones in 15.
failure of nutritional recovery after total gastrectomy. malnutrition is reported to be an inevitable consequence of total gastrectomy, although there are few data to support this contention. six patients of median age 63 years underwent total gastrectomy for malignancy. at follow-up (median 45 months, range 25-60 months) each patient was clinically tumour-free and underwent dietary assessment, faecal fat and nitrogen measurement and routine haematological testing. protein and fat stores, measured by neutron activation analysis and the tritiated water dilution technique, were compared with the same measurements made before operation and with predicted values. mean (s.d.) dietary intake (2224(381) kcal day-1 and 81(15)g protein day-1) met the patients' estimated requirements. mean(s.d.) serum albumin and faecal nitrogen values were normal but there was notable steatorrhoea (21(17) g day-1). body composition measurements revealed profound deficiencies of body-weight (p less than 0.02), protein (p less than 0.01) and fat (p less than 0.02) before operation which were not corrected by an apparently curative total gastrectomy (p less than 0.05), although further deterioration was prevented.
an open, noncomparative study of doxazosin in essential hypertension: experience in general practice in the netherlands. the antihypertensive efficacy, safety, and lipid effects of doxazosin, a selective alpha 1-inhibitor, were assessed in a general practice setting. three hundred twenty-six patients were entered into the study, which involved three phases: (1) a 2-week baseline period, (2) an 8-week period in which patients received 1 to 8 mg of doxazosin once daily, and (3) a 4-week maintenance period. after 12 weeks, 78.8% of efficacy-evaluable patients were considered therapy successes (sitting diastolic blood pressure either less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline or greater than or equal to 10 mm hg reduction from baseline). the mean daily dose in patients considered a therapy success was 2.8 mg. by the final visit, sitting systolic/diastolic blood pressures of these patients were reduced by 16.4/13.5 mm hg from a mean baseline of 170/106 mm hg. the investigators' global assessment of efficacy of once-daily doxazosin therapy was excellent or good for 70% of patients. of the 326 patients, 30.7% reported a total of 160 side effects; 78% of the side effects were mild or moderate in severity, and 24 patients (7.4%) discontinued treatment because of adverse experiences. the investigators' global assessment of toleration was excellent or good for 87% of patients. doxazosin produced a significant decrease in total cholesterol (p = 0.02) and triglyceride (p less than 0.001) levels. from baseline to final visit there was also a highly significant reduction of 17% (p less than 0.001) in calculated risk score for coronary heart disease on the basis of the framingham heart study risk equation.
myocyte cell loss and myocyte cellular hyperplasia in the hypertrophied aging rat heart. to determine the effects of age on the myocardium, the functional and structural characteristics of the heart were studied in rats at 4, 12, 20, and 29 months of age. mean arterial pressure, left ventricular pressure and its first derivative (dp/dt), and heart rate were comparable in rat groups up to 20 months. during the interval from 20 to 29 months, elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and decreased dp/dt indicated that a significant impairment of ventricular function occurred with senescence. in the period between 4 and 12 months, a reduction of nearly 19% in the total number of myocytes was measured in both ventricles. in the subsequent ages, similar decreases in myocyte cell number were found in the left ventricle, whereas in the right ventricle, the initial loss was fully reversed by 20 months. moreover, from 20 to 29 months, a 59% increase in the aggregate number of myocytes occurred in the right ventricular myocardium. in the left ventricle, a 3% increment was also seen, but this small change was not statistically significant. these estimations of myocyte cellular hyperplasia, however, were complicated by the fact that cell loss continued to take place with age. the volume fraction of collagen in the tissue, in fact, progressively increased from 8% and 7% at 4 months to 16% and 22% at 29 months in the left and right ventricles, respectively. in conclusion, myocyte cellular hyperplasia tends to regenerate the ventricular mass being lost with age in the adult mammalian rat heart.
cellular and molecular basis of the asbestos-related diseases. asbestosis is an inflammatory and fibrotic process of the alveolar structures mediated, at least in part, by cytokines released by "activated" alveolar macrophages. the process of phagocytosis and "activation" of alveolar macrophages is poorly understood. are all macrophages activated or only subpopulations? which cytokines are up-regulated? how does the local milieu modulate profibrotic and antifibrotic mediators? is protein release accompanied by up-regulation of gene transcription? is there an ordered sequence of cytokine activity? what roles do neutrophils and lymphocytes play? how can disease progression best be quantified absent further exposure? answers to these questions are important to direct rational strategies at interdicting the fibrotic process. the question of cancer and asbestos is more vexing. the processes of inflammation, fibrosis, and carcinogenesis appear to be closely intertwined. for example, proto-oncogenes such as c-sis (pdgf b-chain) are up-regulated in activated alveolar macrophages from fibrotic lungs; these and possibly others may play an important role in asbestos carcinogenesis. second, asbestos can transfect dna into cells. furthermore, dna can adhere to asbestos fibers, and these fibers are capable of direct transmigration into cells. the questions of the mechanisms of cigarette smoke cocarcinogenicity and latency remain. lastly, if the bronchial epithelium is highly metaplastic throughout from cigarette smoking, what triggers a single (or several) nidus of cells to transform into carcinoma? malignant mesothelioma poses the most challenging questions because of association with brief asbestos exposure by history. mesothelial cells are susceptible to minute environmental manipulations, and changes occur after exposure to all fiber types. yet epidemiologic studies point toward long amphiboles as having greater mesothelioma risk. to test this hypothesis, experimental data must be generated differentiating tumorigenesis risk from short, chrysotile fibers that can migrate to the parietal pleura from the associations of long amphiboles persisting in lung tissue. despite the future decreasing numbers of clinical cases of asbestos-related disease, solving the important mechanistic questions remaining will contribute significantly to our understanding of fibrosis and cancer.
cell lineage markers in human pancreatic cancer. the normal pancreas consists of three major cell types or lineages that share a common embryologic origin from pluripotent endodermal precursors. the type of cell that undergoes neoplastic transformation to form a pancreatic carcinoma is controversial and may influence the phenotype and biologic behavior of the tumor. in this study, immunohistologic techniques were used to determine the cell lineage differentiation expressed in 29 primary exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas, five metastatic exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas, and five islet cell neoplasma. specimens of normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis were used for comparison. the cell lineage markers consisted of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against trypsin and lipase (acinar cells); secretory component, carbonic anhydrase ii, and pancreatic cancer mucin span-1 (ductal cells); and chromogranin-a and somatostatin (islet cells). the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) and lysozyme were also determined. this collection of markers allowed the differentiation between acinar, ductal, and islet cells of normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis specimens. the expression of cell lineage markers in islet cell tumors was homogeneous and restricted to chromogranin-a. in contrast, the expression of these markers in primary and metastatic exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas was variable. reactivity with monoclonal anti-cea was absent in normal pancreas, and was present in 83% of chronic pancreatitis specimens as well as 90% of exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas. in addition, lysozyme reactivity was absent in normal pancreas; however, lysozyme was expressed in one case of chronic pancreatitis, 17 cases of primary carcinoma, and three cases of metastatic carcinoma. these findings support the concept that the original transformed cell type in many pancreatic exocrine carcinomas resemble endodermal "stem cells" that retain the capability of differentiation along more than one cell lineage pathway.
circulating cd8+ cytotoxic t lymphocytes specific for htlv-i px in patients with htlv-i associated neurological disease. the human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i), the first human retrovirus to be characterized, is associated with adult t-cell leukaemia and a chronic progressive disease of the central nervous system termed tropical spastic paraparesis, or htlv-i-associated myelopathy. only 1% of individuals infected with htlv-i develop clinical disease however. the various manifestations of an htlv-i infection may be related to differences in the genetic backgrounds of individuals, infection with variant strains of htlv-i, differences in viral tropism or host immune response to the virus. whereas the humoral response to htlv-i is well characterized, little is known about the human cellular immune response, such as the production of cytotoxic t lymphocytes. here we report the presence of high levels of circulating htlv-i-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes in patients with htlv-i associated neurological disease but not in htlv-i seropositive individuals without neurological involvement. these cytotoxic t lymphocytes are cd8+, hla class i- restricted and predominantly recognize the htlv-i gene products encoded in the regulatory region px. these findings suggest that htlv-i-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes may contribute to the pathogenesis of associated neurological disorders associated with htlv-i.
a new syndrome of congenital hypoparathyroidism, severe growth failure, and dysmorphic features. twelve infants (six boys, six girls) with severe hypocalcaemic tetany or convulsions were seen over a three year period. nine patients were symptomatic in the newborn period. their hypocalcaemia was associated with hyperphosphataemia and very low concentrations of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone. none of the babies suffered from congenital cardiac disease. cell mediated immunity, measured in five patients, was normal. there were no chromosomal abnormalities but all patients shared several dysmorphic features including deep set eyes, microcephaly, thin lips, beaked nose tip, external ear anomalies, micrognathia, and depressed nasal bridge. mental retardation of varying degree was found in all patients. all had severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation. four patients have died. the remaining eight patients are on treatments with vitamin d and calcium supplements with no change in their growth pattern. we believe that this association of congenital hypoparathyroidism with severe growth failure and dysmorphism represents a new syndrome.
regulatory elements of the erythropoietin gene. because the human hepatoma cell line hep3b produces erythropoietin (epo) in a regulated fashion, it can be used to investigate the cis-acting regulatory elements of the epo gene. comparison of primate and mouse sequences shows strong homology not only in the coding sequence but also within the 5' flanking region, the first intron, and the 3' flanking region. these portions of the epo gene were inserted 5' and 3' to a reporter gene, human growth hormone (gh). 5a is a 1,192-base pair (bp) hindiii-xbal fragment that extends from 378 bp 5' to the cap site through the first intron. to obviate the problem of false initiation of translation from the epo atg start codon, this site was changed to tag by site-directed mutagenesis. 3a is a 255-bp accl-bglii fragment that extends 67 bp upstream from the epo termination codon and covers most of the 3' noncoding region of homology. the plasmid dnas were transfected by electroporation into hep3b cells with rsvcat as an internal standard to correct for transfection efficiency. one aliquot of cells was exposed to 50 mumol/l cocl2 or to 1% o2. at the end of the incubations, gh and epo were measured in the cell media and the cell pellet was assayed for cat. production of gh was stimulated 1.7-fold by cobalt or hypoxia. furthermore, addition of 3a to the gh gene, irrespective of orientation, stimulated gh production 2.6-fold with cocl2 and 2.3-fold with hypoxia. stable cell lines were produced by cotransfection of the above constructions, along with the selectable marker psv-neo. in two clones, exposure to hypoxia resulted in much more marked (16-fold) induction of gh. stimulus of both gh and epo production by hypoxia was partially abrogated by carbon monoxide. these results demonstrate the presence of promoter and enhancer elements within the human epo gene that are appropriately responsive to hypoxia and cobalt.
prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. the prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. a group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography. the clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them. in 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal ph and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests, ie, acid perfusion, edrophonium stimulation, balloon distension, and ergonovine stimulation, all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring. in 19 of these 37 patients, the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic st-t segment alterations; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr ph and pressure recording. these data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram.
therapeutic options in acute diverticulitis. diverticulitis is a serious intra-abdominal infection that ultimately afflicts about one in four patients having colonic diverticulosis. the illness may be indolent or fulminant, depending on the degree of colonic spillage and its containment. most patients require hospitalization, and medical therapy suffices in about three fourths. those who fail aggressive medical management and those with recurrent acute attacks, diffuse peritonitis, abscess, persistent obstruction, or fistulization require surgical intervention. abdominal ct scanning has supplanted the contrast enema as the acute diagnostic procedure of choice and allows guided percutaneous drainage of large abscesses in selected cases. this approach helps realize the surgical ideal of a single elective operation without a temporary colostomy. for those patients still requiring emergency surgery, the two-stage approach employing resection of the diseased colon at the initial operation is far superior to the older three-stage approach.
the pathophysiology of anoxic injury in central nervous system white matter. white matter of the mammalian brain is susceptible to anoxic injury, but little is known about the pathophysiology of this process. we studied the mechanisms of anoxic injury in white matter using the isolated rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white-matter tract. optic nerve function, measured as the area under the compound action potential, rapidly failed when exposed to anoxia. postanoxic recovery was variable, depending on duration of the anoxic insult; after a standard 60-minute period of anoxia, the compound action potential recovered to 28.5% of control. irreversible anoxic injury was critically dependent on extracellular ca2+; maintaining the tissue in zero [ca2+] solution throughout the anoxic period resulted in 100% compound action potential recovery. increasing perfusate [ca2+] during anoxia from zero to 4 mm resulted in progressively less recovery. anoxic damage to the optic nerve appears to depend on the gradual accumulation (over tens of minutes) of ca2+ in a cytoplasmic compartment. the inorganic ca2+ channel blockers mn2+ (1 mm), co2+ (1 mm), or la3+ (0.1 mm) had no effect on recovery of the compound action potential after anoxia; only mg2+ (10 mm) significantly improved recovery. treatment with the dihydropyridine ca2+ channel blockers nifedipine (1-10 microm) or nimodipine (1-40 microm) also had no effect on recovery from anoxia. thus, ca2+ influx during anoxia does not occur via conventional ca2+ channels. preliminary evidence suggests that this ca2+ influx may occur via other cation channels that are imperfectly selective for ca2+ or via the na(+)-ca2+ exchanger.
emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding. thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment, or both, failed to arrest variceal bleeding, or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts (epss) were studied. epss permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient. in this patient, the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography. esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14. three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed. the causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient. one patient was classified in child's category b and two in child's category c. thirty-two patients submitted to epss and were discharged alive. twelve of these patients subsequently died, at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure. four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure; two patients died of hepatomas; two, other neoplasia; three, hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers, and one patient, renal failure. analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent. the long term survival rates were fewer for patients with child's category c than for those with combined child's categories a and b (five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent; p less than 0.05). during the follow-up period, none of the patients had variceal bleeding. chronic encephalopathy developed in six, which was mild in three, moderate in one instance and severe in two. it developed soon after epss, with onset in the first month after discharge in three. thus, when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding, epss should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period.
the efficacy of methylprednisolone in reducing flap edema. it has been suggested that systemic steroids reduce postoperative flap edema. this has been poorly documented by several reports based on subjective clinical observations. in an effort to provide quantitative data on methylprednisolone and edema, a flap edema model in the rat was developed based on the inferior epigastric vessels. significant edema developed after 48 hours. differing intraoperative doses of methylprednisolone were studied, producing a dose-response curve. a single low dose of intraoperative steroid is effective in reducing flap edema; previously recommended doses are probably excessive.
pneumatosis intestinalis and pneumoperitoneum complicating mixed connective tissue disease. a case of a young woman with a 3-year history of mixed connective tissue disease who developed secondary pneumatosis intestinalis and pneumoperitoneum and died shortly after of rapidly progressive disease is reported. the pathogenesis, treatment and prognosis of this unusual complication in mixed connective tissue disease are discussed.
is hyperglycemia associated with cardiovascular disease? the framingham study. the association of nonfasting blood glucose levels with cvd incidence was determined prospectively in 1382 men and 2094 women aged 45 to 84 years participating in the framingham heart study. for this study, all patients were classified in 1970 as diabetic or nondiabetic. every 2 years they were examined, categorized according to causal blood glucose samples obtained at the clinic visit, reclassified for development of cvd and diabetes mellitus, and followed 10 years for cvd. during the follow-up period, 350 men and 369 women developed cvd. age-adjusted cvd rates were positively associated with glucose levels in nondiabetic women who did not develop diabetes during follow-up. no such associations were seen in men. multivariate analyses confirmed the independent association of blood glucose levels with later cvd in nondiabetic women. this study shows that hyperglycemia in the original framingham cohort is an independent risk factor for cvd in nondiabetic women, but not among men.
experience with photocoagulation in behcet's disease. between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet's disease. of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined, 38 eyes (6.8%) in 33 patients (11%) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion, branch retinal vein occlusion, or retinal or disc neovascularization. these eyes were treated by photocoagulation, primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma, as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion. the treatment, which was well tolerated, was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization. disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases, and partially in others.
nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in aids patients. objective--to describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after june 1989. setting--a department of infectious diseases in copenhagen, seeing about half the patients with aids in denmark. subjects--73 hiv antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak (20 june-14 august), of whom 18 (17 with aids, one with aids related complex), developed cryptosporidiosis. two further hiv negative subjects (one departmental secretary, one visiting relative) developed cryptosporidiosis. main outcome measures--cryptosporidia in stool samples, clinical symptoms, cd4 cell count, hiv antigen concentration, chemotherapeutic treatment. results--the source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward, contaminated by an incontinent, psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks. the mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is, twice that in hiv-negative patients. of the 18 patients with aids who developed cryptosporidiosis, five recovered, two were symptomless carriers, three died of unrelated causes, and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea. among the 57 exposed hiv antibody positive inpatients (excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere), significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not (91%, 10/11 v 48%, 21/44, p less than 0.05). conclusions--the clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula. increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with aids.
management of multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease in patients with hypertension. hypertension intervention trials, which have involved mainly the use of diuretics and beta-blockers, have demonstrated a disappointing benefit in terms of reduction of coronary heart disease (chd). rather than suggesting that elevated blood pressure and chd are not causally related, these data suggest that the antihypertensive agents used were not optimal for the management of hypertension and a review of the currently recommended therapies is needed. major risk factors for chd, which include increased blood pressure, elevated serum cholesterol levels, and smoking, are highly prevalent in the general population and appear to cluster in patients with hypertension. therefore the treatment of hypertension demands a multifactorial approach, one that takes into consideration all the risk factors for chd. diuretics and beta-blockers adversely affect the serum lipid profile, and this could negate some of the chd benefit afforded by blood pressure reduction.
differential protective effects of halothane and isoflurane against hypoxic and reoxygenation injury in the isolated guinea pig heart. the authors investigated the effects of halothane (hal) and isoflurane (iso) on cardiac depression produced by global hypoxia and the recovery of function following reoxygenation is isolated guinea pig hearts perfused with krebs' solution at constant pressure. isovolumetric left ventricular systolic (lvsp) and end-diastolic pressures (lvedp) were measured by placing a saline filled, latex balloon into the left ventricle. bipolar electrodes were placed in the right atrium and right ventricle for measurements of heart rate (hr), atrioventricular conduction time (avct), and determination of the incidence and severity of dysrhythmias occurring during hypoxia and reoxygenation. hearts were divided into three groups: control (n = 20), halothane (n = 12), and isoflurane (n = 13). all hearts were exposed in sequence to oxygenated perfusate (po2, 530 mmhg), moderately hypoxic perfusate (po2, 91 mmhg) for 30 min, and then to oxygenated perfusate for 40 min. halothane (1%, 0.4 mm) or isoflurane (1.5%, 0.5 mm) were administered 10 min before hypoxia, during hypoxia, and during the first 10 min of reoxygenation. exposure to halothane and isoflurane before hypoxia produced a 14 and 11% decrease in heart rate, a 32 and 23% increase in avct, and a 47 and 28% decrease in lvsp (all p less than or equal to 0.001) for halothane and isoflurane, respectively, and no significant change in lvedp. during hypoxia, hr decreased and avct increased similarly in both groups. left ventricular systolic pressure (lvsp) decreased sharply with a narrowing of the prehypoxic differences among the groups. in the control and isoflurane groups, lvedp increased during hypoxia but remained unchanged in the halothane group.
from leningrad to the day-care center. the ubiquitous giardia lamblia. giardiasis is recognized as a worldwide public health problem. seroprevalence data from both the developing and developed world show high rates of carriage in populations at risk for fecal-oral transmission, such as children in day-care centers. outbreak investigation has expanded our understanding of reservoirs for giardia lamblia and of the routes of transmission. various host factors have been associated with infection. the pathogenesis of giardial infections is being elucidated, in particular the role of lectin activation in producing disease. three standard chemotherapeutic agents are available in the united states. the institution of community-wide prevention measures is equally important. current areas of investigation including antigenic composition and enzymatic variants should result in effective forms of immunotherapy, while more effective forms of chemoprophylaxis could assist in eradicating the pathogen from institutional settings.
the value of symptom directed evaluation in the surveillance for recurrence of carcinoma of the breast. specific postoperative tests used to diagnose recurrent carcinoma of the breast were evaluated for their ability to have an impact on the over-all course of the disease. sixty-four patients with recurrent or new contralateral primary disease were divided into two groups based on the method of diagnosis. those patients with a new complaint at an interval between scheduled follow-up visits and who went on to have tests to document a recurrence were categorized as interval follow-up. those who were seen at a prearranged regular follow-up period and received tests as recommended by the attending physician or surgeon and had a documented recurrence were classified as routine follow-up. thirteen patients presented with new contralateral primary disease and 51 with metastatic disease (16, bone; 13, lung; 11, local; three, liver, and eight, multiple). the median time to discovery of recurrence from the primary treatment was 29 and 28 months for the interval and routine groups, respectively. ninety per cent of the failures occurred by 53 months. the survival time after recurrence was significantly greater in those patients diagnosed routinely (p = 0.003). however, the over-all survival time (from primary therapy to death) was only significantly improved for the routine group when the contralateral new primary diseases were included (p = 0.009). the method of diagnosis of a contralateral primary carcinoma was physical examination and mammogram. strong recommendations for follow-up testing can be limited to mammogram and physical examination.
loss of photosynthetic and chlororespiratory genes from the plastid genome of a parasitic flowering plant. photosynthesis is the hallmark of plant life and is the only plastid metabolic process known to be controlled by plastid genes. the complete loss of photosynthetic ability, however, has occurred on several independent occasions in parasitic flowering plants. some of these plants are known to lack chlorophyll and certain photosynthetic enzymes, but it is not known to what extent changes have occurred in the genes encoding the photosynthetic apparatus or whether the plants even maintain a plastid genome. here we report that the nonphotosynthetic root parasite epifagus virginiana has a plastid chromosome only 71 kilobases in size, far smaller than any previously characterized land plant plastid genome. the epifagus plastid genome has lost most, if not all, of the 30 or more chloroplast genes for photosynthesis and most of a large family of plastid genes, the ndh genes, whose products may be involved in a plastid respiratory chain. the extensive changes in epifagus plastid gene content must have occurred in a relatively short time (5-50 x 10(6) yr), because striga asiatica, a related photosynthetic parasite, has a typical complement of chloroplast genes for photosynthesis and chlororespiration. the plastid genome of epifagus has retained transcribed ribosomal rna and ribosomal protein genes, suggesting that it expresses one or more gene products for plastid functions not related to photosynthesis.
human papillomavirus in women with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia iii. untreated cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (vin) iii may progress to invasive vulvar carcinoma. tissues from 29 new zealand women with vin iii were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus (hpv) types 6, 11, 16 and 18 by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. hpv 16, the only hpv type detected in the lesions, was identified in about half the cases. hpv-positive women were younger than hpv-negative women, and their lesions displayed koilocytosis more often. in four of five cases in which there was a progression to invasive cancer, hpv 16 was detected in both the vin iii and invasive cancer tissue.
transesophageal echocardiography during percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty. to ascertain the value of transesophageal echocardiography during percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty, the present study was undertaken in 26 anesthesized patients (21 women and 5 men; mean age, 47 years) with symptomatic rheumatic mitral valve stenosis. in all but one patient the balloon dilation of the mitral valve was successful and doppler-derived valve area increased (0.9 +/- 0.3 to 1.9 +/- 0.4 cm2). transesophageal echocardiography provides continuous monitoring, as well as guidance of the procedure. crossing the arterial septum, as well as delivery of the sheath through the mitral valve orifice and correct positioning of the balloon, was highly facilitated and reduced x-ray exposure time. the degree of mitral regurgitation and the presence of interatrial shunting at the end of the procedure could be readily assessed, making cineangiography not necessary. complications of the procedure, such as pericardial effusion, could be detected before hemodynamic deterioration had occurred (one patient). the advantages of transesophageal echocardiography for routine monitoring of percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, however, should be weighted against the added risk and expense of this support.
assessment of proplast-teflon disc replacements [published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 feb;49(2):220] this retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which proplast-teflon (vitek inc, houston, tx) replacements were used. among the problems noted were pain, malocclusion, restricted opening, and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa.
facial bone fracture associated with carotid-cavernous sinus fistula. out of 989 cases of facial bone fracture, ten patients had carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas (1.01%). their ages ranged from 25 to 48 years. seven were male and three female. two of the ten patients had lower third, three patients had middle third, three patients had upper third, and two patients had combined middle and lower third facial bone fractures. the signs and symptoms of a fistula appeared from the first postinjury day up to 50 days after the injury (mean, 21 days). four patients had symptoms after operation for facial bone fracture. most fistulae were identified by arteriography before treatment. followup ranged from 1 year, 8 months, to 5 years, 9 months (mean, 2 years, 9 months). one patient had a malocclusion. nine patients had complete resolution of their bruits. complications included unilateral complete visual loss (two), csf rhinorrhea (two), and stroke in one of the two csf rhinorrhea patients. one patient expired due to a severe head injury, and there was one death from an unrelated cause.
retinal vasculitis as a complication of rheumatoid arthritis. two middle-aged women developed retinal vasculitis in the moderately active phase of classical rheumatoid arthritis. fluorescein angiography disclosed diffuse leakage from the retinal capillaries and cystoid macular edema, which subsided in response to oral steroid. they did not show any clinical signs of vasculitis in other parts of the body. retinal vasculitis should be included in the list of complications observed in rheumatoid arthritis.
astroblastoma: electron microscopy and immunohistochemical findings: case report. the clinical, histological, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic features of a cerebral astroblastoma are reported. the patient is a young woman with a superficial parietal tumor. macroscopic findings include a well-delineated superficial nodule with a hard central core. histological study disclosed a predominantly papillary tumor with hyalinized vessels. tumor cells were scarcely positive with immunohistochemical stain for glial fibrillary acidic protein, extensive and diffusely positive with vimentin and neuron-specific enolase, and intensely positive with s-100 and epithelial membrane antigen in the papillary areas. ultrastructural study showed abundant intermediate filaments forming bundles in tumoral cytoplasms, membrane junctions, and external laminae when cells were in contact with collagen fibers. based on immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characteristics, we believe that the filaments seen in tumor cells are mainly vimentin filaments. these peculiar immunohistochemical patterns in a glioma may aid in the histological diagnosis of this rare tumor type.
relative importance of activation sequence compared to atrioventricular synchrony in left ventricular function. this study evaluated the relative hemodynamic importance of a normal left ventricular (lv) activation sequence compared to atrioventricular (av) synchrony with respect to systolic and diastolic function. twelve patients with intact av conduction and av sequential pacemakers underwent radionuclide studies at rest and doppler echocardiographic studies at rest and during submaximal exercise, comparing atrial demand pacing (aai) to sequential av sensing pacing (ddd) and ventricular demand pacing (vvi). studies at rest were performed at a constant heart rate between pacing modes, and the exercise study was performed at a constant heart rate and work load. cardiac output was higher during aai than during both ddd and vvi (6.2 +/- 1 vs 5.6 +/- 1 and 5.3 +/- 1 liters/min, p less than 0.05). lv ejection fraction was likewise higher during aai (55 +/- 12 vs 49 +/- 11 vs 51 +/- 13, p less than 0.05). vvi with or without av synchrony was associated with a paradoxical septal motion pattern, resulting in a 25% impairment of regional septal ejection fraction. in addition, lv contraction duration was more homogenous during aai. peak filling rate during aai and vvi was higher than during ddd (2.86 +/- 1 and 2.95 +/- 1 vs 2.25 +/- 1 end-diastolic volume/s; p less than 0.05). during vvi, the time to peak filling was significantly shorter than during both aai and ddd (165 +/- 34 vs 239 +/- 99 and 224 +/- 99 ms; p less than 0.05).
improved early detection of recurrence in prostatic carcinoma following hormonal therapy. combined use of palpation and fine needle aspiration cytology. fifty-nine hormonally treated prostatic carcinoma patients were prospectively followed by rectal examination and fine needle aspiration cytology at six-month intervals for periods ranging from six to one hundred twenty months (median follow-up 48 mos). the cytologic findings and clinical impressions were divided into four or five categories, respectively, ranging from benign to clearly malignant. cytologic material and clinical descriptions suitable for evaluation were available for 306 follow-up examinations. of these, 209 were cytologically benign (including 191 without and 18 with clinical evidence of malignancy). the remaining 97 examinations showed cytologic evidence of malignancy of which 50 were clinically apparent (51.5%). while the correlation of clinical and cytologic findings was good (91.4%) in cases with no evidence of disease activity, our findings indicate that many recurrences which are occult to clinical examination may be detected by cytologic examination.
chromosomes in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: karyotypic patterns in disease subtypes. to define further the clinical importance of cytogenetic analysis in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (all) a prospective study was performed on 139 unselected children. analyses were considered adequate in 104, of whom 35 were normal and 69 had clonal abnormalities. abnormalities were categorised according to banded chromosome analysis as well as chromosome count. karyotypes were correlated with clinical and laboratory features at diagnosis and with survival. of the successful analyses, thirty five (34%) children had no abnormalities; this group contained an excess of t cell disease. twenty five (24%) had a "characteristic" hyperdiploid karyotype and as a group had lower presenting white counts, a tendency to cd10, and periodic acid schiff positivity of the blast cells and smaller spleens. none was an infant and only one was over 10 years old. seven (7%) children with t(9; 22), t(8; 14), or t(4; 11) translocations were grouped together as "specific" translocations. collectively they had a significantly worse prognosis than the remainder. nine children developed central nervous system relapse, six of whom had either t(4; 11) or abnormalities of 9p or 19p. a descriptive classification taking into account chromosome bonding pattern is cytogenetically more appropriate and may be more clinically useful than grouping children simply by chromosome number. as knowledge and techniques improve, the classification of cytogenetic abnormalities in all will need to be kept under frequent review.
acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection of a vocal cord; the value of nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture in its management a 67-year-old man presented with a 45-year history of a week voice. this was result of polio which had left him with a right vocal cord palsy. the patient underwent a teflon injection of the right vocal cord under general anaesthesia to improve the quality of his voice. in the immediate post-operative period, he suffered acute upper airway obstruction. the problem of acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection is considered and its management with nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture is discussed.
assessment of patient laboratory data in the acutely ill. laboratory test results are a valuable source of information. nurses need to assess laboratory test results as part of the physical assessment of their patients. comparison of laboratory test results and changes with abnormal physical findings provides the basis for changes in the nursing care plan. progressive monitoring of laboratory results and prompt interventions might lessen the seriousness of the health problem. in acute care units, the initial group of laboratory tests serves as a baseline for assessing additional test results. several reference values should be remembered, particularly the electrolytes (potassium, sodium, and calcium), glucose, bun, creatinine, and albumin. specific group profiles assist in identifying and in monitoring the patient's health status. incorporating laboratory test results into the plan and evaluation of care will result in safer and more effective patient care. referring to laboratory test findings and comparing them with physical assessment findings are required for the delivery of professional nursing care.
fluctuations of interictal brain imaging in repeated 123i-imp spect scans in an epileptic patient. single photon emission computed tomography (spect) brain scans with n-isopropyl-(iodine 123) p-iodoamphetamine (123i-imp) were performed three times in interictal periods in a 35-year-old man with intractable frontal lobe epilepsy and normal x-ray ct findings. the first scan showed decreased 123i-imp uptake in the right frontal lobe. this abnormal image was regarded as the primary focus of his epilepsy on the basis of its regional agreement with focal epileptic discharges on eegs. in the second scan, he showed normal imaging, while the third scan showed the same abnormal image as before, in the right frontal lobe. the frequency of his clinical seizures was almost unchanged during the intervals between scans and further eegs recorded soon after each scan showed almost no changes in the basic activities and frequency of the epileptic discharges. such fluctuations in spect brain imaging suggest that the severity of functional inactivation underlying the focal hypoperfusion image as an epileptic focus may fluctuate considerably in the interictal state with no relation to the clinical features of epilepsy.
incidental demonstration of pericardial fistula during hepatobiliary scintigraphy. biliary vomiting developed 16 mo after resection of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus in a patient with a complex postoperative course. a biliary scan revealed an outline of the pericardium, suggesting a fistula. the potential role of radionuclide imaging in this rare and potentially fatal complication is discussed.
the efficacy of suction drains after routine total joint arthroplasty [published erratum appears in j bone joint surg [am] 1991 jun;73(5):791] a prospective study of thirty-eight patients (seventy-six knees) who had had a primary bilateral total knee replacement and twelve patients (twenty-four hips) who had had a primary bilateral total hip replacement was conducted to assess the effect of postoperative suction drainage on wound-healing. a suction drain was placed on each patient's right operative wound, while no drains were used on the left. otherwise, the same operative technique and method of closure were used in all wounds. statistical analysis of the results showed no difference between the two sides with regard to the incidences of swelling or persistent drainage. return of active function of the quadriceps and of range of motion of the knee in patients who had had a total knee replacement was also unaffected by the use of suction drains. we concluded that the routine use of suction drains for wounds is unnecessary after uncomplicated total joint arthroplasty.
congenital angiotropic lymphoma (intravascular lymphomatosis) of the t-cell type. the autopsy of a stillborn infant showed an extensive intravascular proliferation of atypical cells throughout the body. there was no infiltration by these cells of the parenchyma of the bone marrow, lymph nodes, or thymus. by histochemistry, these cells were negative for naphthol-asd-chloroacetate esterase, a marker of granulocytes. by immunohistochemistry, they were reactive with mt-1 and anti-leu-22, but unreactive with mb-1, l26, anti-leu-m1, tu-9, and antihemoglobin antibodies. a few cells reacted with antileukocyte common antigen and uchl-1. based on these findings, the lesion was diagnosed as angiotropic lymphoma (intravascular lymphomatosis) of the t-cell type, which occurred congenitally. most angiotropic lymphomas in the literature are of the b-cell type, and no leukemia virus type i antibody was negative in the mother.
thyroid carcinoma with mixed tall-cell and columnar-cell features. tall-cell and columnar-cell carcinomas have been regarded as aggressive variants of papillary thyroid carcinoma. in the present case report the authors describe a composite tumor where these forms of differentiation coexisted, with transitional changes occurring within single follicular structures. this finding indicates that the two variants are closely related. in local recurrences, one or the other feature appeared in separate lesions. lung metastases developed, and the patient died 5 1/2 years after diagnosis and primary treatment.
the auditory p300 event-related potential: an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease. recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy. this study assesses the value of the auditory p300 event-related potential--a slow component of the auditory evoked response--as a tool in this field. twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic (grade 1/2) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically. electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted. an auditory p300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm. the latency and amplitude of this wave were measured. the latency of the p300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups (p less than 0.05). amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients, but this was not statistically significant. this study suggests that the latency of the p300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy. the delays in the p300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities.
subtle cerebellar phenotype in mice homozygous for a targeted deletion of the en-2 homeobox. the two mouse genes, en-1 and en-2, that are homologs of the drosophila segmentation gene engrailed, show overlapping spatially restricted patterns of expression in the neural tube during embryogenesis, suggestive of a role in regional specification. mice homozygous for a targeted mutation that deletes the homeobox were viable and showed no obvious defects in embryonic development. this may be due to functional redundancy of en-2 and the related en-1 gene product during embryogenesis. consistent with this hypothesis, the mutant mice showed abnormal foliation in the adult cerebellum, where en-2, and not en-1, is normally expressed.
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger. the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing. a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients (mean age 14 years) with the following clinical presentations: sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt) (n = 17); ventricular fibrillation (vf) (n = 7); syncope with heart disease (n = 10); nonsustained vt (n = 6); and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart (n = 15). the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm, followed by 1 to 4 (s2, s3, s4, s5) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites. of the 17 patients with sustained vt, 12 had induction of the arrhythmia (sensitivity = 71%). overall, 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt, with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols (p = 0.02). although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt, 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation. the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ. the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus, data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients, nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance, and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf.
radiobiological studies in the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is described in a 43-year-old male. the response of dividing fibroblasts from this patient to the lethal effects of ionizing radiation was indistinguishable from that of a normal control: mean inactivation dose (d) = 1.74 gy and 1.68 gy, respectively. however, these cells were defective in the repair of potentially lethal damage (d = 2.36 gy and 3.26 gy, respectively). the response to radiation of go t lymphocytes derived from the patient was similar to that of the control. the frequency of mutant circulating t lymphocytes resistant to 6-thioguanine was 17 x 10(-6) which was elevated when compared with age-matched controls. these results suggest an abnormality in the response of the fibroblasts to ionizing radiation damage.
use of recombinant human erythropoietin to enhance autologous blood donation in a patient with multiple red cell allo-antibodies and the anemia of chronic disease. we treated a patient with alcohol-induced cirrhosis, intractable pain from a defective hip prosthesis, and multiple red cell allo-antibodies with recombinant human erythropoietin (epo) in order to facilitate collection of blood for autologous transfusion during an elective total hip revision. this patient had experienced a delayed transfusion reaction 4 months earlier after receiving least incompatible packed red cells for gastrointestinal bleeding. his blood could not be crossmatched because of the development of multiple antibodies to homologous blood given during previous surgery and several episodes of gastrointestinal hemorrhage. following initiation of epo therapy, there was a prompt and persistent increase in the reticulocyte count from a baseline of 1.6% to a maximum of 8.6%. this was accompanied by maintenance of the hematocrit between 32% and 38.5% despite withdrawal of seven units of autologous blood over the 45-day treatment period. poor venous access and availability of blood bank personnel, not hematocrit level, were the limiting factors that determined how frequently blood could be collected. we conclude that epo stimulated erythropoiesis in this patient with underlying anemia of chronic disease and facilitated harvest of autologous blood for elective surgery.
breast cancer screening in older women: practices and barriers reported by primary care physicians. annual mammography, in combination with clinical breast examinations, can reduce mortality from breast cancer. however, surveys of both patients and physicians suggest that mammography is underutilized. this study examined whether physicians' reported breast cancer screening practices and barriers to mammography varied with patients' age. data from 576 primary care physicians (internal medicine, family/general practice, and obstetrics/gynecology) who participated in a mailed statewide survey were analyzed. physicians reported screening elderly women significantly less often than younger women, regardless of family history of breast cancer. with the exception of medical specialty, physicians' demographic and practice characteristics were not associated with reported screening practices. however, physicians' knowledge and beliefs about breast cancer in older women were associated with reported screening practices. when analyzing barriers to ordering mammography, cost to the patient was viewed as a barrier for women of all ages, and pain was viewed as a greater barrier for younger women; otherwise, physicians consistently believed that their elderly patients faced considerably more barriers compared with younger women. further investigation is required to examine why primary care physicians report age-related differences in both breast screening and barriers to mammography.
observation of cerebrospinal fluid flow with echo-planar magnetic resonance imaging. using echo-planar (ep) magnetic resonance imaging (mri), cerebrospinal fluid (csf) flow patterns have been demonstrated in the normal subject and patients with pathological conditions including communicating hydrocephalus, aqueduct stenosis and syringohydromyelia. snap-shot imaging times of 128 ms allow detailed demonstration of transient intraventricular csf flow patterns, which is not possible with conventional mri. the potential of epi as a method for qualitative and quantitative assessment of csf dynamics is illustrated.
pneumatic chest wall compression. a cause of respiratory failure from massive subcutaneous emphysema. subcutaneous emphysema rarely causes significant adverse clinical consequences. two patients had development of massive subcutaneous emphysema during positive-pressure ventilation that resulted in chest wall compression and respiratory failure. drainage of the subcutaneous air produced dramatic improvement. subcutaneous emphysema is potentially fatal in ventilated patients. specific decompression of subcutaneous tissues is indicated in such extreme cases.
factors related to and consequences of weight loss in patients with stomach cancer. the norwegian multicenter experience. norwegian stomach cancer trial. of 1165 patients with stomach cancer included in a national, prospective multicenter study with 51 surgical units participating, information about weight loss before diagnosis was available for 855 patients (73%). median weight loss was 5 kg; 259 patients (31%) experienced no weight loss. by logistic regression analysis the authors found that weight loss increased with age and advancing stages of disease (tnm stage i-iv), with decreasing karnofsky index, in lauren's diffuse versus intestinal tumor type, and with tumors located at the cardia/esophagus. increasing weight loss reduced the resectability rate significantly, but no association between weight loss and postoperative complication rate was found. the odds ratio for postoperative mortality was 2.5 to 1 for the weight loss group 5 to 10kg versus 0 kg. in conclusion, weight loss reflects a less favorable tumor status. weight loss did not increase postoperative morbidity but did lead weight to a higher death rate after surgery.
sudden appearance of coronary thrombus observed by angiography--a case report. a sudden coronary thrombus formation was documented by chance during cardiac catheterization in a patient with postinfarction angina. the thrombus was successfully treated with intravenous urokinase and heparin infusions, and thereafter, coronary angioplasty was performed without any complication.
surgical treatment for severe slipping of the upper femoral epiphysis. we have used a modified technique of cervical osteotomy to treat a consecutive series of 23 patients with chronic slip of the upper femoral epiphysis. it has been successful in correcting both moderate and severe deformities with a low incidence of avascular necrosis, comparable to that seen after subtrochanteric osteotomies. we describe the operative details and discuss the features which make cervical osteotomy technically superior to intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric procedures.
synthesis of type i collagen in healing wounds in humans. to quantify wound healing in surgical patients, samples of wound fluid were collected through a silicone rubber tube for 7 postoperative days and their concentrations of the carboxyterminal propeptide of type i procollagen (picp) and the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen (piiinp) were measured with specific radioimmunoassays. the mean concentration of picp in would fluid on day 1 was 207 +/- 92 (sd) micrograms/l, and on day 2 908 +/- 469 micrograms/l (p less than 0.001, signed rank test). on day 7, the mean concentration reached was 380 times higher than that of day 1 (79,330 +/- 54,151 micrograms/l). only one peak of picp antigenicity, corresponding to the intact propeptide as set free during synthesis of type i procollagen, was detected on sephacryl s-300 gel filtration analysis of wound fluid samples. the mean concentration of piiinp was 70 +/- 61 micrograms/l on day 1, 86 +/- 88 micrograms/l on day 2, and 180 +/- 129 micrograms/l on day 3 (p less than 0.001 when compared with day 1). finally on day 7, a 250-fold concentration (17,812 +/- 9839 micrograms/l), compared with day 1, was reached. methods described in the present paper allow separate and repetitive quantification of the synthesis of both type i and type iii procollagen during human wound healing.
vaccines and milk immunoglobulin concentrates for prevention of infectious diarrhea. considerable progress has been made in the last decade in developing vaccines against the most important enteric infections. two new, widely licensed vaccines (oral ty21a and parenteral vi) are available against typhoid fever, and new attenuated salmonella typhi strains are ready for testing. an engineered live orally administered cholera vaccine, cvd 103-hgr, is undergoing clinical trials for safety, immunogenicity, and transmissibility in children in areas where cholera is endemic. multiple candidate vaccines against rotavirus, shigella, and enterotoxigenic escherichia coli are in clinical trials. newly acquired knowledge about pathogenesis and mucosal and cellular immunology, coupled with application of biotechnology, has already resulted in many candidates for vaccines, and more are expected to appear within the next few years.
porokeratoses: immunohistochemical, light and electron microscopic evaluation. punch biopsy specimens of 14 patients with porokeratosis of mibelli (n = 1), disseminated superficial porokeratosis (n = 6), disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (n = 4), porokeratosis plantaris, palmaris et disseminata (n = 2), and punctate porokeratosis (n = 1) were obtained for light and electron microscopy for evaluation of possible differences between these clinical variants. langerhans cells in close contact with early degenerating keratinocytes could be observed in the epidermis. to study the cellular composition of the epidermal inflammatory infiltrate immunohistochemistry was performed. these studies demonstrated that the predominant cell type in these infiltrates are helper t cells, intermingled with leu-6+ langerhans cells. despite the clinical variation and possible different etiologic or triggering mechanisms, the immunohistochemical and morphologic changes in all types of porokeratosis are the same and seem to represent a uniform reaction pattern.
is thioridazine retinopathy progressive? relationship of pigmentary changes to visual function. thioridazine toxicity has been described as a 'progressive chorioretinopathy', but this designation can be misleading. during the first year after thioridazine exposure retinal pigmentation evolves from a granular to a patchy or nummular appearance. however, visual function and the electroretinogram typically improve during this period. some cases may show chorioretinal atrophy and functional loss many years later, but there is little evidence for ongoing drug-related progression. late atrophy may represent degeneration of cells that were injured subclinically at the time of initial drug exposure. although thioridazine toxicity produces an evolving pigmentary disturbance, functional changes must be monitored independently of fundus appearance.
role of percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy in suspected intrathoracic malignancy. percutaneous fine-needle aspiration (pfna) biopsy is an accepted technique for the diagnosis of suspected intrathoracic malignancy, but the appropriate indications for its use have not been clearly defined. to help establish guidelines, we performed a retrospective analysis of 188 patients who underwent pfna biopsy for suspected intrathoracic malignancy. biopsy led to a diagnosis in 72% (135/188) of the patients, but in 27% (50/188) samples were inadequate for cytological diagnosis, and in 2% (3/188) samples were adequate but failed to yield a diagnosis. fifty-three patients underwent surgical intervention, thus allowing histological confirmation of the cytological diagnosis. in patients with a diagnosis from pfna biopsy, operation confirmed malignancy in 97% (37/38) and a specific cell type in 79% (30/38). in patients without a diagnosis after biopsy, a malignancy was found in 73% (11/15) at the time of operation. this suggests a high rate of accuracy when pfna biopsy provides a diagnosis. however, it also illustrates that a substantial percentage of pfna biopsy attempts fail to yield a diagnosis in patients ultimately found to have malignancies. this implies that pfna biopsy might best be reserved for patients who are not surgical candidates.
cesarean section before the onset of labor and subsequent motor function in infants with meningomyelocele diagnosed antenatally background. meningomyelocele can now be detected before birth. few data are available on its natural history, however, and optimal management at the time of delivery is controversial, although it has been suggested that labor and vaginal delivery may cause pressure on exposed nerve roots, resulting in additional loss of neural function. methods. to assess the effect of labor and the type of delivery on the level of motor function in fetuses with uncomplicated meningomyelocele, we identified 200 cases of this disorder, accounting for 95 percent of the cases that occurred in the state of washington during our 10-year study period. we compared the outcomes of 47 infants delivered by cesarean section before labor began, 35 delivered by cesarean section after a period of labor, and 78 who were delivered vaginally (another 40 were ineligible for the study). in cases of meningomyelocele detected prenatally, cesarean section was performed before the onset of labor if isolated meningomyelocele without severe hydrocephalus was present. the infants delivered in this manner were compared with those who were delivered either vaginally or by cesarean section after labor began. results. at two years of age, the infants who had been exposed to labor were 2.2 times more likely to have severe paralysis than those delivered by cesarean section without labor (95 percent confidence interval, 1.7 to 2.8). infants delivered by cesarean section before the beginning of labor had a mean (+/- sd) level of paralysis 3.3 +/- 3.0 segments below the anatomical level of the spinal lesion at two years of age, as compared with 1.1 +/- 2.3 for infants delivered vaginally and 0.9 +/- 4.1 for infants delivered by cesarean section after the beginning of labor (p less than 0.001 for both comparisons). exposure to labor did not affect the frequency of neonatal complications or later intellectual performance. conclusions. for the fetus with uncomplicated meningomyelocele, delivery by cesarean section before the onset of labor may result in better subsequent motor function than vaginal delivery or delivery by cesarean section after a period of labor.
beagle pup germinal matrix maturation studies. intraventricular hemorrhage, or hemorrhage into the germinal matrix tissues of the developing brain, remains a common problem of preterm infants. the "risk period" for this insult is the first 3-4 postnatal days. we hypothesized that this risk period for hemorrhage is related to rapid perinatal maturation of the germinal matrix vasculature and employed the newborn beagle pup model for the study of this maturation. newborn beagle pups (n = 30) were anesthetized and systemically perfused with buffered formalin; the brains were removed and prepared for immunohistochemical study. sections stained with bandeiraea lectin demonstrated that there was no difference in germinal matrix vessel density between postnatal days 1 and 4. germinal matrix sections were also stained for antibodies to alpha-smooth muscle actin, collagen iv, collagen v, desmin, factor viii-related antigen, fibronectin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, laminin, transferrin, and vimentin. vasculature staining by alpha-smooth muscle actin was not noted until postnatal day 10, and differential staining was detected for antibodies to laminin and collagen v. quantification of staining intensity by confocal microscopy demonstrated a significant increase in both extracellular matrix components at postnatal day 4 compared with day 1 (p less than 0.05 for both). these basement membrane proteins may add sufficient structural integrity to germinal matrix vessels to prevent capillary rupture and thus intraventricular hemorrhage.
hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: volumetric measurement of nasogastric aspirate to determine the imaging modality the authors postulated that volumetric measurement of residual gastric aspirate in neonates and infants with nonbilious projectile vomiting could enable differentiation between patients with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (hps) and those with gastroesophageal reflux (ger) and help to determine whether ultrasound (us) or fluoroscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract would best confirm the diagnosis. in the 38 patients (all but two of whom had been fasting for 3-4 hours), 10 ml or more of nasogastric aspirate was considered indicative of obstruction. hps occurred in 91.7% of patients with 10 ml of aspirate or more, whereas ger occurred in 85.7% of patients with less than 10 ml. the differences between the two groups were statistically significant. solely on the basis of residual volume (greater than or equal to 10 ml), the cause of vomiting could be differentiated, prior to standard radiologic studies, 89.4% of the time. it is concluded that patients with projectile vomiting who have 10 ml or more of residual aspirate in the stomach should undergo us for confirmation of hps; those with less than 10 ml should undergo fluoroscopy for confirmation of ger.
financial impact of a rapid ck-mb-specific immunoassay on the diagnosis of myocardial infarction. the purpose of this study was twofold. first, we evaluated the financial impact of a rapid, monoclonal antibody-based ck-mb mass assay (stratus, dade division, baxter laboratories, miami, fla) for the direct measurement of ck-mb in serum samples from 65 patients admitted to the coronary care unit with the possible diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. second, we evaluated retrospectively the stratus assay and an activity assay (electrophoresis) for ck-mb in the following patient categories: acute myocardial infarction treated with and without thrombolytic therapy, angina, congestive heart failure, skeletal muscle trauma, and the acutely ill without acute myocardial infarction. the advantageous features of the stratus mass assay were as follows. first, the laboratory was able to perform the assay more frequently because of the short assay time per specimen (less than 10 minutes) without additional personnel. this had a substantial impact on the clinician's ability to diagnose acute myocardial infarction and to move patients out of an intensive care unit at substantial financial savings to the patient, the hospital, or the third-party payer. second, the stratus assay was able to detect low levels of ck-mb (1 to 2 micrograms/l) in the presence of low total creatine kinase activity (less than 100 u/l). third, the stratus assay showed no interference due to very-high-total creatine kinase activities (greater than 100,000 u/l), ck-bb, macro-creatine kinase, and mitochondrial creatine kinase.
diarrhea in ciguatera fish poisoning: preliminary evaluation of pathophysiological mechanisms. ciguatera fish poisoning is a clinical syndrome consisting of a combination of gastrointestinal and neurological symptoms occurring after eating toxin-containing tropical reef fish; it is a major cause of morbidity in hawaii, the south pacific, australia, and the caribbean. in an effort to define pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for the diarrheal component of the illness, we examined the effect of crude and fractionated toxin preparations on isolated rabbit ileal tissue in a ussing chamber model. both the crude toxin preparation (prepared from toxic ctenochaetus strigosus) and 10% and 50% methanol-chloroform toxin fraction (prepared from a pool of toxic fish samples) gave a striking increase in transepithelial electrical potential difference and short-circuit current. enterotoxic activity seemed to be mediated by calcium. when examined by light microscopy, the intestinal mucosa was not damaged by the toxin preparations used. our data demonstrate that toxins involved in ciguatera fish poisoning directly stimulate intestinal fluid secretion without accompanying tissue damage and suggest that calcium is the "second messenger" mediating the process.
doppler echocardiographic evaluation of streptokinase lysis of thrombosed right-sided st. jude medical valves in patients with congenital heart defects. four episodes of st. jude medical prosthesis leaflet thrombosis were serially evaluated by two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography during treatment with streptokinase. three patients aged 4, 11, and 24 years with congenital heart disease had st. jude medical valves in pulmonary positions (two cases) for tetralogy of fallot and in the tricuspid position (one case). the duration of thrombosis was not known in any patient. leaflet immobility and its resolution were demonstrated by echocardiography and were confirmed fluoroscopically. continuous wave doppler echocardiography showed abnormal stenotic gradients in thrombosed valves that were reduced after thrombolysis. these studies demonstrate the utility of two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography in serial evaluation of prosthetic pulmonary and tricuspid valve thrombosis during thrombolysis.
unusual variants of adrenal pseudocysts with intracystic fat, myelolipomatous metaplasia, and metastatic carcinoma. five previously unreported cases of adrenal pseudocysts are described that demonstrate a wider range of histologic appearances than has been previously recognized in these lesions. one pseudocyst removed from an asymptomatic 59-year-old female contained intracystic nests of cytologically malignant cells of unknown origin. workup revealed a left breast mass, which on biopsy showed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with neoplastic cells that were cytologically similar to those found within the cyst contents. four other pseudocysts are described with variable numbers of intracystic vascular structures and benign adrenal cortical cells. in addition, intracystic mature adipose tissue was observed in all four cases, with myelolipomatous metaplasia found in one. awareness of the wide histologic variability of these lesions should improve diagnostic accuracy and allow distinction from adrenocortical neoplasia and myelolipoma.
late metastases of cutaneous melanoma: case report and literature review. the development of delayed metastases, although rare, is well documented in patients with invasive cutaneous melanoma. only 24 cases, including ours, are clearly documented in the literature. we describe a 56-year-old woman who had an acral lentiginous melanoma of the right hand (thickness 1.2 mm). thirteen years after excision and postoperative irradiation, a subcutaneous metastasis developed in the right arm. one year later the patient died with disseminated bone metastases. this case, as with most of those with delayed metastases, has typical features: female sex; location at a site other than the back, arm, neck, or scalp; and primary tumor thickness between 1.2 and 2.5 mm.
reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta. since crawford's report in 1973, repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin. growing evidence, however, indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages. with this in mind, we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988. the operated patients in our series all survived. fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt, none of whom developed paraplegia. the remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 (34.6%) developed paraplegia or paraparesis (p less than 0.02). paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time (p less than 0.002). it did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes, but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes. these data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection.
cathepsins d and e in normal, metaplastic, dysplastic, and carcinomatous gastric tissue: an immunohistochemical study. immunohistochemical distributions of cathepsins d and e were determined in normal mucosa, metaplastic, dysplastic, and cancerous lesions of the human stomach. cathepsins d and e were localised in the foveolar epithelium and parietal cells of the normal gastric mucosa, but their intracytoplasmic distributions were different - cathepsin e distribution was even and diffuse in the cytoplasm while cathepsin d was found in coarse intracytoplasmic granules. chronic inflammation and ulcer did not influence the distribution of these enzymes. no positive staining was obtained in the incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, and well differentiated adenocarcinoma. tumour cells of signet ring cell carcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma cells, however, gave strong and diffuse stainings for cathepsins d and e in the cytoplasm. the results suggest that the distribution of cathepsins d and e is related to each specialised function of the foveolar epithelium and the parietal cells, and that their disappearance is associated with development of well differentiated adenocarcinoma from intestinal metaplasia.
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm complicating mitral valve replacement in a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis. a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis required mitral valve replacement. a left ventricular pseudoaneurysm developed following surgery. the etiology and diagnosis of this complication are discussed.
transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. the perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia (svt) is discussed. vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the svt. since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position, it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of svt. transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the svt and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables. the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating svt in the newborn are discussed.
postangiographic femoral artery injuries: nonsurgical repair with us-guided compression ultrasound-guided compression repair (ugcr) of catheterization-related femoral artery injuries was evaluated as a possible new imaging-guided interventional procedure. thirty-nine femoral artery injuries (35 pseudoaneurysms, four arteriovenous fistulas) were detected with color doppler flow imaging in patients with enlarging groin hematomas and/or groin bruits 6 hours to 14 days after catheterization procedures. ugcr was not performed in 10 patients due to spontaneous thrombosis (n = 4), infection (n = 1) or skin ischemia (n = 1), unsuitable anatomy (n = 3), or excessive discomfort (n = 1). the remaining 29 patients underwent a full trial of compression therapy, and the lesion was eliminated in 27. follow-up color flow scans were obtained after 24-72 hours in all 27 successful cases and at 1-15 months in 19; no recurrences or complications occurred. ugcr for acute injuries is safe and technically simple and is promising as a cost-effective, first-line treatment for uncomplicated catheterization-related femoral artery injuries. ugcr is probably not appropriate for long-standing injuries.
postarthroscopy analgesia with bupivacaine. a prospective, randomized, blinded evaluation. the analgesic effect of intraarticular bupivacaine injected at the conclusion of knee arthroscopy done under general anesthesia was investigated in a prospective, randomized, and blinded fashion. pain scores, the use of analgesic medications, crutch use, weight-bearing, activity level, and difficulty sleeping the night after surgery were all unaffected by the use of bupivacaine. the apparent lack of effect is most likely due to rapid clearance from the knee, leaving only a transient, 1 to 2 hours of potential benefit. in this study, the patients were already quite comfortable during this time period due to the routine use of intraoperative narcotics. the preoperative level of knee discomfort was found to be a major determinant of postoperative discomfort. other much less important factors were synovial and chondral shaving, sex of the patient, and experience of the surgeon.
the intraoperative incidence of detectable bilateral and multicentric disease in papillary cancer of the thyroid. this is a prospective study to determine the incidence of grossly detectable multicentric and bilateral cancer at operation in patients who, before surgery, were believed to have a unilateral lesion. the opposite lobe was inspected at the time of operation and the surgeon made a determination as to whether there was bilateral and/or multicentric disease present. a total thyroidectomy was then carried out and the accuracy of the surgeon's judgment was established by permanent-section pathologic examination. fifteen of the 44 patients were assessed to have gross bilateral disease. thirteen of these were confirmed by pathologic examination. one case of microscopic bilateral disease was not recognized by the surgeon. seventeen patients were thought to have unilateral multicentric disease. fifteen of these cases were confirmed by microscopy and an additional seven cases were documented to have secondary foci. it is obvious from this study that most disease that is called microscopic disease is actually palpable. a review of the literature confirms this. it was very unlikely for a patient who did not have unilateral multicentric disease to have a contralateral focus of carcinoma. the incidence of bilateral disease was 32%, and the incidence of multicentric disease was 50%; the surgeon was very accurate in assessing this. we believe that surgeons who advocate lobectomy as the primary treatment for thyroid cancer are recognizing grossly detectable disease in a significant number of patients and thus are doing total thyroidectomies in most patients with bilateral disease.
circus movement atrial flutter in the canine sterile pericarditis model. differential effects of procainamide on the components of the reentrant pathway. to evaluate the mechanisms of action of procainamide on the components of the reentrant pathway, drug-induced changes in activation patterns, effective refractory periods (erps), and stimulation thresholds were analyzed in nine dogs with sterile pericarditis and sustained atrial flutter. activation maps were based on 127 close bipolar recordings from a special "jacket" electrode. from the control map, 22 +/- 2 sites covering the slow zone and the normal zone of the reentrant circuit were selected to measure erps and thresholds. the excitable gap was estimated from the longest erp during pacing at the tachycardia cycle length. during atrial flutter, epicardial activation proceeded as a single wave around an arc of functional conduction block in the proximity of the atrioventricular (av) ring or around a combined functional/anatomic obstacle, with the arc being contiguous with one of the venae cavae. an area of slow conduction, which accounted for 53 +/- 15% of the revolution time within 35 +/- 15% of the total length of the reentrant pathway, was bordered by the arc of block and the av ring or a caval vein and the av ring, respectively. procainamide (5-10 mg/kg i.v.) prolonged the cycle length of atrial flutter from 144 +/- 17 to 190 +/- 24 msec (p less than 0.05) and then terminated the arrhythmia in all studies. the increase in cycle length was due to an increase in conduction time in the slow zone by 37 +/- 11 msec (86 +/- 17% of the total cycle length increase). during the last reentrant beat, conduction failed in the slow zone, with the arc of block joining the av ring. at termination, procainamide had prolonged conduction time, stimulation threshold, and erp in the normal zone by 11 +/- 18%, 40 +/- 80%, and 5 +/- 15%, respectively, compared with 51 +/- 16%, 86 +/- 93%, and 14 +/- 21%, respectively, in the slow zone (p less than 0.05 for all three parameters). the duration of the excitable gap did not change significantly. we conclude that procainamide preferentially affected the slow zone of single loop reentrant circuits. the drug terminated circus movement atrial flutter without abolishing the excitable gap, and its effect on conduction seemed the major determinant of the antiarrhythmic action.
enlarged adenoid and adenoidectomy in adults: endoscopic approach and histopathological study. adenoid enlargement is uncommon in adults and because examination of the nasopharynx by indirect posterior rhinoscopy is inadequate, many cases of enlarged adenoid in adults are misdiagnosed and accordingly maltreated. this study was conducted on 35 cases of enlarged adenoid aged between 20 and 42 years. the nasal endoscope was utilized to identify the adenoid mass. adenoidectomy under transnasal endoscopic control was performed and all the excised material was sent for histopathological examination. adenoidectomy resulted in marked improvement in 94 per cent of cases without major complications. histopathological examination revealed non-specific inflammatory reaction in 15 cases (43 per cent), pure reactive changes, predominantly follicular hyperplasia, in two cases (6 per cent) and mixed pattern in 18 cases (51 per cent). endoscopic follow-up for an average 17 months identified recurrence in only two patients. it was concluded that enlarged adenoid tissue in adults has some histopathological differences from that in children and adenoidectomy under transnasal endoscopic control is safe and reliable.
therapeutic embolization: enhanced radiolabeled monitoring. radiolabeling of ivalon (polyvinyl alcohol sponge) particles permits localization of injected particles during embolization through the use of a portable gamma camera and provides a means to prevent potentially fatal complications such as pulmonary embolization. a more efficient technique of labeling ivalon particles with technetium-99m sulfur colloid was developed. an increase in labeling efficiency allowed more accurate determination of the distribution of injected ivalon particles. scanning electron microscopy demonstrated the stability of the ivalon particles during this new labeling process. two patients with arteriovenous malformations underwent therapeutic embolization with radiolabeled ivalon particles; gamma camera imaging of the lesion and chest was performed throughout the procedure.
lipolytic factors associated with murine and human cancer cachexia. we have identified a lipolytic factor in extracts of a cachexia-inducing murine carcinoma (mac16) that shows characteristics of an acidic peptide and appears to be composed of three fractions of apparent molecular weights corresponding to 3 kd, 1.5 kd, and 0.7 kd, as determined by exclusion chromatography. material with identical chromatographic and molecular weight characteristics was also present in the serum of patients with clinical cancer cachexia but absent from normal serum, even under conditions of starvation. the mac16 lipid factor, when injected into animals bearing the non-cachexia-inducing tumor mac13, was capable of inducing weight loss without a significant reduction in food intake. similar lipolytic material, although in lower concentration, was also found in the mac13 tumor extracts. these findings suggest that cachexia may arise from the enhanced expression of a lipolytic factor associated with tumor cells.
role of beta-adrenergic blockers after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) cannot currently be prevented. different medical regimens have been largely unsuccessful. experimental studies suggest roles for beta-adrenergic blockers and calcium antagonists. controlled clinical studies have failed to show any decrease in restenosis rate for calcium antagonists. corresponding studies for beta blockers are lacking. this study evaluates 541 consecutive ptca procedures, 455 (86%) in patients treated with beta blockers after ptca (76% metoprolol, 14% atenolol, 4% sotalol, 6% others) and 86 (14%) in patients without beta blockers. angiographic success was achieved in 483 of 620 lesions (78%), and was not significantly different with or without beta blockers (79 vs 73%, p greater than 0.05). the procedure success rate and the complication rates (myocardial infarction, emergency coronary artery bypass grafting, death) did not differ with or without beta blockers (p greater than 0.05). follow-up angiograms for 426 of the 483 successfully dilated lesions (88%) revealed that a total of 155 stenoses had recurred (36%). the restenosis rate was not significantly different with (368) or without (58) beta blockers (36 vs 38%, p greater than 0.05). for beta blockers with calcium antagonists (84% nifedipine, 13% diltiazem, 2% verapamil, 1% others), the restenosis rate was 97 of 250 (39%) vs 36 of 118 (31%) (p greater than 0.05). this retrospective study indicates that treatment with beta-adrenergic blockers after ptca, alone or in combination with calcium antagonists, does not influence either the success rate or the restenosis rate and can be continued if indicated from an antiischemic viewpoint.
gender differences in manning criteria in the irritable bowel syndrome. the objective of this study was to determine if gender differences exist when using the manning criteria for diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome. in an outpatient setting, 61 women and 36 men with entry complaints of abdominal pain, altered bowel habits, or both underwent full evaluation by board-certified/eligible gastroenterologists who also systematically rated the presence or absence of the six manning criteria. irritable bowel syndrome was defined as the absence of an organic disease explanation for the entry complaints. this determination was made by two other board-certified gastroenterologists after patients had been in the study for 9 months. these raters were independent of the study and rated the transcripts of patients' clinic visits, all other available clinical data from this and other clinics, all laboratory data obtained during the 9-month study period, and the results of a 9-month telephone follow-up to patients and their physicians. sixty-five percent of the study population had no organic disease explanation for the entry symptoms, thereby representing irritable bowel syndrome for this study. a similar proportion and type of organic disease and irritable bowel syndrome were experienced by men and women. for the total sample of 97 subjects, the correlation of the manning criteria with irritable bowel syndrome was 0.22 (p less than 0.01). in the 61 women, correlation between the manning criteria and irritable bowel syndrome was significant (r = 0.47; p less than 0.01). in the 36 men, however, the correlation was in the opposite direction, although it was not significant (r = -0.16). it was concluded that significant gender differences exist when using the manning criteria for the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome and that the manning criteria were not of diagnostic value in men.
de novo carcinoma of the lower urinary tract in renal allograft recipients. immunocompetence has been postulated as an important defense against the progression of urothelial carcinoma. three cases of de novo lower urinary tract carcinoma in renal transplant recipients demonstrated the potential for unusually rapid urothelial extension and invasion in chronically immunosuppressed patients. two patients had a history of perineal condyloma acuminata; tumors from 1 of these harbored the genetic sequences of human papillomavirus type 6. one patient had multiple manifestations of cyclophosphamide-related urothelial injury, including bladder carcinoma. treatment of 2 patients culminated in a radical operation during which the remaining native urinary system was resected completely, with sacrifice of the allograft kidney in 1 and diversion into an ileal conduit in 1. the remaining patient underwent urethrectomy and partial cystectomy with a sigmoid conduit.
clinicopathological experience with pineocytomas: report of five surgically treated cases. the clinicopathological experience associated with five cases of pineocytoma is presented. all patients were treated by surgical removal without postoperative radiotherapy. in three individuals, 2000 cgy was administered to the tumor as a presurgical diagnostic test, with no evidence of response. all cases demonstrated histological features of pineocytoma, according to the criteria of borit et al., and of the so-called "pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation," according to the criteria of rubinstein. the experience obtained from the present series reveals that these tumors can occur in the initial decades of life, that a cystic appearance and the presence of calcifications are distinctive features of their radiological evaluation, and that they have a good prognosis after surgical removal, even when the histological data indicate local invasion. the convenience of reserving the term "pineocytoma" for these tumors, and of including the so-called "pineocytomas without further differentiation" within the group of pineoblastomas, is suggested in order to achieve a practical clinicopathological assessment of parenchymatous pineal tumors.
orthostatic hypotension in human immunodeficiency virus infection may be the result of generalized autonomic nervous system dysfunction. we used an autonomic nervous system (ans) testing battery to determine if generalized ans dysfunction was present in five human immunodeficiency virus-positive (hiv+) patients presenting with severe orthostatic hypotension (oh). all five patients had abnormal ans testing, which demonstrated both sympathetic and parasympathetic defects, i.e., generalized ans dysfunction. treatment with fludrocortisone effectively reversed the oh in four of the five patients. the oh was transient in these four patients. we believe it is important to recognize that oh may be the result of generalized ans dysfunction in hiv-positive patients and that it can be effectively treated.
immunocytochemical localization of progesterone receptors in endocrine cells of the human pancreas. progesterone receptors (pgr) have been immunocytochemically localized in the nuclei of several (40% to 75%) endocrine cells of the human pancreas and in a more variable number of neoplastic cells of 7 of 18 endocrine pancreatic tumors. conversely the exocrine epithelial cells of the pancreas did not exhibit any pgr immunoreactivity in normal as well as in different pathologic conditions, including pancreatic adenocarcinomas. estrogen receptors were not detected in any of the pancreatic samples investigated. double immunocytochemical experiments have documented that pgr immunoreactivity in normal langerhans islets is a consistent feature of most (75%) glucagon-producing a cells, of approximately 5% to 20% of insulin-producing b cells, and of a variable percentage of pancreatic polypeptide (pp)-producing cells, ranging from 5% to 70%. these figures were not affected by the sex, age, or underlying disease of the patients. the reported findings corroborate previous clinical and experimental evidence indicating that sex steroid hormones may have some regulatory effects on the functional activity of the endocrine pancreas.
prostate tumour markers and differentiation grade in prostatic cancer. serum acid phosphatase activity, prostate specific phosphatase and prostate specific antigen were measured in 100 patients with prostatic cancer. the patients were divided according to the differentiation grade into 3 groups: g1 (well), g2 (moderately) and g3 (poorly differentiated) carcinoma. bone metastases were identified by scintigraphy. among the 76 m0 patients the mean levels of all 3 markers were slightly higher in patients with moderately differentiated prostatic carcinoma. among the 24 m1 patients the primary tumour was either g2 (18 patients) or g3 (6 patients); none had g1 lesions. significantly higher serum acp and pap levels were found in patients with g2 tumours than in those with g3 lesions. it was concluded that the histological differentiation grade of prostatic carcinoma did affect serum levels of prostatic tumour markers; the tendency towards higher levels in the g2 group was noticeable in both non-metastatic and metastatic cases despite the limited number of patients in the latter category. in clinical practice this information may be an important additional tool in staging prostatic cancer.
effect of subarachnoid hemorrhage on serotonin uptake and release in the rabbit basilar artery. this study analyzes the changes induced by subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) on the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-ht) uptake and release evoked in rabbit basilar arteries by tyramine. rabbits were injected with 5 ml of autologous arterial blood into the cisterna magna to produce sah. tritium accumulation in basilar arteries was measured after 30 minutes of incubation with 10(-7) m [3h]5-ht and a subsequent 120-minute superfusion (1 ml/min) period. the uptake of 5-ht by arteries 1, 2, 3, and 7 days after sah was found to be 109%, 69%, 57% (p less than 0.05), and 67% (p less than 0.05) (n = 4, 4, 9, and 6; p less than 0.05) of control (n = 13; 16.8 +/- 1.2 x 10(2) dpm/mg tissue), respectively. the neuronal (cocaine-sensitive) uptake of 5-ht in the arteries 3 days after sah decreased to approximately 38% of control, whereas the extraneuronal (cocaine-insensitive) uptake of both groups had almost the same absolute value (n = 6 and 6; 4.4 +/- 0.4 and 4.8 +/- 0.4 x 10(2) dpm/mg). autoradiographic study disclosed that dense clusters of silver grains in the adventitia were not observed after treatment with cocaine (3 x 10(-5) m), although a diffuse distribution of grains was present throughout the vascular wall. the labeled arteries were stimulated by superfusion of tyramine, which is known to replace amines in the sympathetic nerve ending. tyramine (10(-6) and 10(-4) m)-induced 3h efflux was significantly potentiated by sah (n = 6) and was suppressed by treatment with cocaine.
reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome: consensus report of an ad hoc committee of the american association for hand surgery on the definition of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome. this report proposes that reflex sympathetic dystrophy be defined as a pain syndrome in which the pain is accompanied by loss of function and evidence of autonomic dysfunction. in the clinical setting, this diagnosis is usually associated with other anatomic and psychological diagnoses and may be associated with a variety of systemic illnesses and medicolegal factors. all components should be assessed before a treatment plan is established. priorities should go to emergency care, acute injuries, and systemic illness, psychiatric problems, and chronic anatomic problems, in that order. early, accurate diagnosis improves prognosis.
coronary angioplasty of diffuse coronary artery disease. from january 1983 through december 1987, 98 patients underwent angioplasty of at least one diffusely diseased coronary artery. diffuse coronary disease was described as: group i, narrowing greater than or equal to 50% that involved the entire vessel (40 patients), group ii, long lesions greater than or equal to 2 cm in length (39 patients), group iii, three or more lesions in the same vessel (19 patients). there were 65 men and 33 women, with a mean age of 60 years; 64 patients (65%) had unstable angina, 23 patients (23%) were diabetic, 31 (32%) had prior myocardial infarctions, and 12 had prior bypass surgery. multivessel disease was present in 89% of patients. angioplasty of only the diffusely diseased vessel was performed in 41 patients, and additional vessels were dilated in 57 patients. overall, of 396 lesions (four per patient) and 197 vessels (two per patient) attempted, success was achieved in 382 lesions (96%) and 187 vessels (95%); angiographic success was achieved in 112 of 120 diffusely diseased vessels (93%). clinical success was achieved in 91 patients (93%). the overall complication rate (death, myocardial infarction, urgent bypass surgery) was 8% (8 of 98): six patients (6%) had myocardial infarction (one q wave, five non-q wave), one patient (1%) had urgent bypass surgery, and two patients (2%) died (one during bypass surgery). the majority of complications (7 of 8 or 87%), including the two deaths, occurred in group i patients, with a 17.5% rate, versus 2.5% in group ii and 0% in group iii, p less than 0.002.
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation. a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards. subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards.
volume conduction of the parietal n20 potential to the prerolandic frontal area. somatosensory evoked potentials were recorded from the frontal and parietal areas in patients with various lesions in the central nervous system on stimulation of the median nerve. five representative cases who showed a selective loss of the positive potential from the frontal area are reported. in each case, the parietal n20 potential was relatively well preserved, and the midposition between the frontal and central areas (fc area) showed a negative potential following p14. the peak of this negative potential was synchronous with that of the parietal n20 potential. this negativity on the fc area is considered to be a volume conducted potential from the parietal n20 to the prerolandic frontal area. such an anterior volume conduction of the parietal n20 would not be explained by the concept of a tangentially oriented dipole generated in the posterior bank of the central sulcus. instead, for the generator of the parietal n20 potential, a radically oriented dipole generated mainly in the parietal area is postulated.
granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma. their distinction with the use of immunohistochemical methods. granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma can mimic each other both clinically and histologically. to develop criteria useful in resolving problem cases, the authors compared the reactivities of these conditions (nine cases of granulomatous prostatitis and six cases of poorly differentiated carcinoma) with a panel of antibodies to cytokeratin (ae1/3), prostate-specific antigen (psa), prostatic acid phosphatase (pap), lysozyme, antimacrophage m, and leukocyte common antigen (lca). in granulomatous prostatitis, histiocytes were not immunoreactive for pap, psa, or cytokeratin; however, histiocytes reacted to lysozyme in nine of nine cases, antimacrophage m in seven of nine cases, and lca in one of nine cases. tumor cells from all six carcinoma cases reacted with pap, psa, and cytokeratin; all failed to react with lysozyme, lca, and antimacrophage m. the authors conclude that granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated carcinoma can be reliably distinguished with immunohistochemical methods.
hepatic portal venous gas identified by computed tomography in a patient with blunt abdominal trauma: a case report. an abdominal computed tomographic (ct) scan in a middle-aged man injured in a high-speed motor vehicle accident demonstrated the presence of portal venous gas. findings on initial peritoneal lavage were entirely negative. exploratory celiotomy performed because of increasing abdominal pain and leukocytosis revealed gangrene of the cecum. this report illustrates the importance of the finding of portal venous gas on ct scan in patients with blunt abdominal trauma.
erythropoietin response to anemia as a function of age. the erythropoietin (epo) response to anemia was assessed for 244 subjects aged 1-64 years (mean 45.2 years) and 121 subjects aged 65-94 years (mean 68.3 years). subjects included non-anemic individuals as well as those with anemia of various etiologies, excluding renal disease and pregnancy. significant inverse correlations between serum immunoreactive epo and hematocrit were noted for both groups. regression lines failed to show a significantly lower slope or y-intercept for older compared to younger subjects. epo levels were not significantly lower for older compared to younger subjects when controlled for hematocrit level. these results suggest that the epo response to anemia in older subjects is similar to that of younger subjects.
renovascular hypertension. difficulties in diagnosis and treatment. renovascular hypertension is not easily identified clinically, and most tests are not totally reliable in detecting its presence. the condition may be due to fibromuscular dysplasia or congenital anomalies in patients younger than age 30 or to atherosclerosis in patients older than 50. the goal of treatment is to lower blood pressure and improve or maintain renal function. cure or improvement of hypertension is more likely in patients with fibromuscular dysplasia than in those with atherosclerosis. interventional procedures include percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, surgical revascularization, and nephrectomy.
enhanced antitumor reactivity of tumor-sensitized t cells by interferon alfa. tumor-draining lymph node cells from mice bearing the methylcholanthrene-induced mca 106 tumors can be sensitized in vitro to acquire antitumor reactivity. we examined the effect of interferon alfa on the function of cells that underwent in vitro sensitization in adoptive immunotherapy. interferon alfa increased the antitumor reactivity of in vitro sensitized cells in the treatment of mca 106 pulmonary metastases. this effect was evident in irradiated mice, indicating that a host response to the interferon alfa was not required. interferon alfa treatment increased class i major histocompatibility complex antigen expression on tumor cells and increased their susceptibility to lysis by in vitro sensitized cells. these results suggest that interferon alfa enhancement of adoptive immunotherapy was mediated by its effect on tumor cells. interferon alfa may be a useful adjunct to the adoptive immunotherapy of human cancer.
a community study of delay in presenting with signs of melanoma to medical practitioners. in the absence of more effective treatment for advanced tumors, early diagnosis and treatment of localized tumors is the most effective way of reducing the burden of illness associated with melanoma. this study examined the following factors: prevalence of signs of melanoma (a mole changing in size, shape, appearance, or color, itching or tingling, bleeding or weeping, becoming raised) in 1344 individuals in a randomly selected sample of 1075 households; the length of delay in seeking medical advice; the factors associated with either going to a medical practitioner or not going/delaying; and the actions of the medical practitioners when first presented with these signs. the results indicate that a large proportion of the sample (11.9%, n = 156) had observed signs of melanoma in the previous 12 months. of the sample reporting signs that had first appeared in the previous 5 years, only 32% sought medical advice about the signs within the recommended period. of the sample either not seeking advice at all or delaying, 49% reported that they thought the sign "wasn't serious/would clear up." furthermore, 30% of the sample either did not known or underrated the importance of early detection and treatment of lesions. these results indicate that there is a deficit in the knowledge of the general public about the signs of melanoma, the severity of the disease, and the possible risks associated with delay.
adenocarcinoma of the colon occurring with intussusception in an adolescent. hydrostatic reduction of intussusception is definitive therapy in most infants with this abnormality. in the older child, adolescent, and adult, a polyp or tumor is often present. operative intervention should be considered earlier in the clinical course both to relieve the intussusception and to define the nature of the lead point.
influence of high-dose aprotinin treatment on blood loss and coagulation patterns in patients undergoing myocardial revascularization. intraoperative administration of the proteinase inhibitor aprotinin causes reduction in blood loss and homologous blood requirement in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. to ascertain the blood-saving effect of aprotinin and to obtain further information about the mode of action, 40 patients undergoing primary myocardial revascularization were randomly assigned to receive either aprotinin or placebo treatment. aprotinin was given as a bolus of 2 x 10(6) kallikrein inactivator units (kiu) before surgery followed by a continuous infusion of 5 x 10(5) kiu/h during surgery. additionally, 2 x 10(6) kiu were added to the pump prime. strict criteria were used to obtain a homogeneous patient selection. total blood loss was reduced from 1,431 +/- 760 ml in the control group to 738 +/- 411 ml in the aprotinin group (p less than 0.05) and the homologous blood requirement from 838 +/- 963 ml to 163 +/- 308 ml (p less than 0.05). in the control group, 2.3 +/- 2.2 u of homologous blood or blood products were given, and in the aprotinin group, 0.63 +/- 0.96 u were given (p less than 0.05). twenty-five percent of patients in the control group and 63% in the aprotinin group did not receive banked blood or homologous blood products. the activated clotting time as an indicator of inhibition of the contact phase of coagulation was significantly increased before heparinization in the aprotinin group (141 +/- 13 s vs. 122 +/- 25 s) and remained significantly increased until heparin was neutralized after cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb).
high-dose epinephrine improves outcome from pediatric cardiac arrest. study objective: animal studies suggest that the standard dose of epinephrine (sde) for treatment of cardiac arrest in human beings may be too low. we compared the outcome after sde with that after high-dose epinephrine (hde) in children with refractory cardiac arrest. design: prospective intervention versus historic control groups. type of participants: two similar groups of 20 consecutive patients each (median ages, 2.5 and 3 years) with witnessed cardiac arrest who remained in arrest after at least two sdes (0.01 mg/kg). interventions: treatment with an additional sde versus hde (0.2 mg/kg). measurements and main results: the rates of return of spontaneous circulation and long-term survival were compared. fourteen of the hde group (70%) had return of spontaneous circulation, whereas none of the sde group did (p less than .001). eight children survived to discharge after hde, and three were neurologically intact at follow-up. no significant toxicity from hde was observed. conclusion: hde provided a higher return of spontaneous circulation rate and a better long-term outcome than sde in our series of pediatric cardiac arrest. hde may warrant incorporation into standard resuscitation protocols at an early enough point to prevent irreversible brain injury.
intralaryngotracheal thyroid. a case of intralaryngotracheal thyroid in a 57-year-old man is presented. the treatment modalities are considered and the previous literature is reviewed.
spinal cord compression from a thoracic paraganglioma: case report. a 34-year-old man with a 4-month history of midthoracic back pain sought treatment for a recent onset of lower extremity paresthesia and stiffness. a myelogram and computed tomographic myelogram disclosed an extradural block at the level of the 8th thoracic vertebral body with involvement of the pedicles, lamina, and spinous process. a posterior decompression of the spinal cord with subtotal resection of a highly vascular tumor was performed. the tumor was identified as a paraganglioma. in a second stage, the remainder of the tumor was embolized preoperatively, and gross total excision and sequential stabilization of the spine with a luque rectangle and sublaminar wires were performed. the patient has been symptom free and without signs of a recurrence in the spine for over 13 months. a large abdominal paraganglioma was recently resected from its probable origin from the adventitia of the abdominal aorta.
true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes, bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas, 46,xx/46,xy karyotype, and a successful pregnancy. the first case (to the authors' knowledge) is reported of a true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes, bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas, a 46, xx/46,xy karyotype, and a successful pregnancy. the true hermaphroditism was diagnosed during infancy. the patient was subsequently found to have a gonadoblastoma and a microscopic dysgerminoma in the gonad diagnosed as an ovotestis and excised during infancy. the successful pregnancy occurred when the patient was 29 years old. a year later a large gonadal tumor affecting the remaining gonad was excised. the gonad was found to be an ovotestis, and the tumor was a dysgerminoma arising from a gonadoblastoma. this case further emphasizes the malignant potential of the y chromosome in patients with abnormal gonads.
subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown etiology: early prognostic factors for long-term functional capacity. forty-one patients suffering subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of unknown etiology were re-investigated at an average of 91 months after the bleed to determine functional capacity. nineteen patients were performing at their previous level of work, five were employed part-time, and four could not work due to the sah. five patients showed a moderate disability in activities of daily living but were not dependent on help, one patient was severely disabled, and two had died. there was one rebleed. early prognosis of an unfavorable outcome was possible on the basis of three clinical variables on admission: a history of hypertension, a hunt and hess grade of greater than ii, and the presence of focal neurological deficits. in addition, the presence of an organic mental syndrome at discharge was identified as a predictive factor for reduced functional capacity later on. other clinical variables in the acute stage, including sex, age, history of headache, interval between sah and admission, impaired consciousness, and cognitive deficits, were not related to a limited functional level. residual neurological deficits and the glasgow outcome scale score on discharge were also not predictive of restrictions in global functions evaluated by means of the karnofsky performance scale status at follow-up review.
litigation and employment status: effects on patients with chronic pain. in order to study the effects of compensation and litigation, 201 chronic pain patients were selected from a sample of 444: 99 were working, 15 were working and litigating, 53 were receiving worker's compensation, and 34 were receiving worker's compensation and litigating. employment (working vs. worker's compensation) and litigation status (litigating vs. not litigating) were analyzed in a 2 x 2 factorial design with measures of pain, disability, psychological distress, and selected demographics as dependent variables. compared to worker's compensation patients, working patients reported significantly less disability (down-time, days spent in bed, interference of pain in daily activities) and pain of a longer duration. compared to litigating patients, non-litigating patients reported less pain (on the mcgill pain questionnaire) and less disability (stopping activity, interference of pain in daily activities). on two measures of psychological distress (depression, anxiety), there were significant interactions: worker's compensation patients who were litigating reported less distress than non-litigants, while working patients who were litigating reported more distress than non-litigants. the results indicate clear differences in self-reports of disability associated with both employment and litigation status. they also suggest that litigation may function as a coping response for patients who are distressed by the adversarial nature of the worker's compensation system. limitations of the study as well as suggestions for further research also are discussed.
transient hyperprolactinemia is associated with a midcycle luteinizing hormone surge. this study demonstrates that lh surge cycles in ivf patients were associated with significantly higher serum prl concentrations than cycles in which a spontaneous lh surge did not occur. our findings support the hypothesis of concomitant lh and prl release at the time of the midcycle gonadotropin surge, as well as that of estrogen sensitization of pituitary lactotropes, and suggest a possible mechanism for transient midcycle hyperprolactinemia.
an unusual manifestation of paget's disease of bone: spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome. neurologic sequelae of paget's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae, ischemia caused by a spinal artery, steal syndrome or neoplasm. we describe a patient with paget's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma. clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome.
familial trigeminal neuralgia and charcot-marie-tooth neuropathy. report of two families and review. typical trigeminal neuralgia has occasionally occurred in multiple members of the same family over several generations. the clinical features of such cases, including the increased incidence in females, and the absence of other apparent hereditary, neurologic, metabolic, or structural abnormalities were identical to those of sporadic cases. more rarely, familial trigeminal neuralgia has been described in the setting of hereditary peripheral neuropathy, especially charcot-marie-tooth disease. we describe patients from two different families with charcot-marie-tooth disease and medically intractable trigeminal neuralgia. both patients were successfully treated by percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizolysis. the occurrence of cranial nerve symptoms in patients with demyelinating peripheral neuropathies is discussed in light of the current hypotheses regarding the etiology of trigeminal neuralgia.
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure. the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance. in both cases, the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and %vc was less than 30%. remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night. the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints. all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died. appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis.
recurrent transient ischemic attacks and stroke in association with an internal carotid artery web fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic vascular disease that most commonly affects cervical carotid arteries at the c1-c2 level when cephalic arteries are involved. several histopathologic and angiographic subtypes of fibromuscular dysplasia exist; most have a benign natural history. we describe the third reported case of a pathologically proven, symptomatic proximal internal carotid artery web and suggest that patients with this lesion are at a higher risk for stroke.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (l-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy). histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following l-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis, neuritis, and perimysial fasciitis. the presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial.
papillary adenocarcinoma of the middle ear. a case of papillary adenocarcinoma of the middle ear is presented. the patient had an unusually short history of otalgia, aural discharge and facial palsy, and, at presentation the tumour was too large for surgical resection to be a feasible option. the management of this rare tumour is discussed and the relevant literature reviewed.
sarcoid reaction mimicking intrathoracic dissemination of testicular cancer. the close observation of patients treated for testicular cancer led to the suspicion of intrathoracic and/or mediastinal metastases on radiologic examination in a number of patients without other evidence of relapse. this report presents two patients with combined seminomatous and nonseminomatous germ cell tumors with isolated sarcoid reactions of hilar and interlobular lymph nodes, detected concomitant with diagnosis and 12 months after diagnosis, respectively. histologic examination appears to be imperative in these cases to avoid unnecessary chemotherapy.
local-regional breast cancer recurrence following mastectomy. local-regional recurrence patterns were investigated in 1392 patients with breast cancer. primary treatment for all patients included a mastectomy. nine hundred seventeen patients had negative nodes and did not receive systemic therapy. four hundred seventy-five patients had node metastases and were randomized to receive different combinations of chemoendocrine therapy. follow-up ranged between 5 and 16 years. two hundred thirty (25.8%) node-negative patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 9.2%. two hundred forty-two (50.9%) node-positive patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 17.1%. larger tumors and more extensive node involvement were associated with more first local-regional recurrences. the relative percent of first local-regional recurrence among patients in whom cancer recurred was similar for node-negative and node-positive patients (35.4% and 33.5%, respectively). in 63.6% of patients in whom cancer recurred, first local-regional recurrence were distant. larger tumors, more extensive node involvement, and a shorter disease-free interval after mastectomy were associated with more rapid appearance of distant recurrence among these patients.
closure of refractory perineal crohn's lesion. integration of hyperbaric oxygen into case management. a case is reported in which a comprehensive program of hyperbaric oxygen (hbo), surgical debridement and reconstruction, and continuing medical management resulted in complete and sustained closure of an extensive perineal crohn's lesion refractory to conventional medical and surgical management. it is emphasized that in this case healing occurred in the setting of previous removal of all diseased intestinal tissue and only with the combined use of all three treatment modalities. hbo may be a useful adjunct in the therapy of large nonhealing perineal lesions post-proctocolectomy in patients who are unresponsive to metronidazole or to immunosuppressant therapy or who experience limiting side effects from continued medical therapy.
allopurinol and thiazide effects on new urinary stone formed after discontinued therapy in patients with urinary stones. we treated 87 patients with calcium-containing urinary stones with either allopurinol alone (44 patients) or in combination with thiazide (43 patients) and studied new stone formation before, during, and after the discontinuation of the drug therapy. the number of stones formed were 1.18, 0.24, and 0.13 before, during, and after discontinuation of the drug therapy, respectively, in the patients treated with allopurinol alone and 1.32, 0.20, and 0.09 in those treated in combination with thiazide. no differences were observed in these values and the duration of each observation period between the two groups. decreases in the incidence of stone formation even after interruption of drug therapy suggested that recurrence-preventive effects observed following administration of these drugs include the effects of medical guidance. however, allopurinol therapy was effective in preventing recurrence in patients with hyperuricosuria.
a cytotoxic t-lymphocyte clone derived from mice with progressively growing tumors. tumor-specific t-cell clones were derived from spleen cells of mice bearing a syngeneic phs-5 tumor (a p815 mastocytoma mutant). cells were expanded in vitro and characterized and assayed for activity against the relevant tumor in vivo. clone cells were cd4-, cd8+ t lymphocytes, as determined by fluorescence activated cell sorting analysis and were specifically cytotoxic against p815 tumor cells in vitro, as shown in chromium 51 release assays. these cells require both antigen and interleukin 2 to proliferate; neither alone is sufficient, even with the addition of interleukin 1. in an experimental p815 liver metastasis model, the adoptive transfer of gd11 or gd11.17 clone cells and injection of recombinant interleukin 2 (7500 u intraperitoneally) 3 days after infusion of tumor cells reduced the number of tumor nodules, while the adoptive transfer of lymphokine-activated killer cells was ineffective.
longitudinal histopathologic assessment of rejection after bladder-drained canine pancreas allograft transplantation. in preparation for assessment of percutaneous biopsies in our clinical pancreas transplant program, a working knowledge of the histopathologic changes after transplantation was obtained in a longitudinal open biopsy study of 16 dogs receiving bladder-drained whole pancreas allografts. edema, extravasation of polymorphs, and lymphocytes associated with focal parenchymal injury were early, invariable, and probably nonspecific findings. the initial feature of unmodified rejection was the appearance of capillary and small vein endothelial changes with mainly perivascular inflammatory cell infiltration. acinar cell loss occurred early and was progressive, whereas islets and ducts were relatively preserved, indicating that acinar tissue may be more vulnerable to lytic necrosis when damaged. functional rejection, determined by fasting urinary amylase levels, was at a stage of extensive and irreversible necrosis. functioning grafts in immunosuppressed dogs had minor and transient endothelial changes with absence of class ii antigen staining of parenchymal cells.
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma. a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients. forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel, bladder, thyroid, menstrual, reproductive, sexual, and growth function. statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls. the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function. no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy. most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement. three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy. no patients have conceived. the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group, but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function. one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder.
protein-losing enteropathy in systemic lupus erythematosus associated with intestinal lymphangiectasia. this case report concerns a young woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who presented with a protein-losing enteropathy. intestinal biopsy revealed lymphangiectasia. mesenteric lymph nodes showed paracortical lymphoid depletion and multiple small sinusoids. elevated cholesterol levels and normal lymphocyte counts characterized the peripheral blood samples. lymph nodes, though enlarged, showed no evidence of obstructive pathology. no secondary cause of lymphangiectasia could be identified. the patient exhibited antinuclear antibodies and antibodies to dsdna at the onset, and then, 5 yr later, the classic features of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). the lymphocytopenia and hypolipidemia that characterizes lymphangiectasia is not a feature of the sle cases reported to date. furthermore, the mechanism for the dilated lymphatics and villous edema is more likely immunological than mechanical disruption of lymphatics.
regional cardiac adrenergic function using i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine tomographic imaging after acute myocardial infarction. the effect of acute myocardial infarction (ami) on regional cardiac adrenergic function was studied in 27 patients mean +/- standard deviation 10 +/- 4 days after ami. regional adrenergic function was evaluated noninvasively with i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine (mibg) using a dedicated 3-detector tomograph. four hours after its administration, there was reduced mibg uptake in the region of infarction, 0.38 +/- 0.31 counts/pixel/mci x 103 compared with 0.60 +/- 0.30 counts/pixel/mci x 103 and 0.92 +/- 0.35 counts/pixel/mci x 103 in the zones bordering and distant from the infarct area, respectively, p less than 0.001. in all patients, the area of reduced mibg uptake after 4 hours was more extensive that the associated thallium-201 perfusion defect with defect scores of 52 +/- 22 and 23 +/- 18%, respectively, p less than 0.001. after anterior wall ami, the 4-hour mibg defect score was 70 +/- 13% and the degree of mismatch between myocardial perfusion and mibg uptake was 30 +/- 9% compared with 39 +/- 17 and 21 +/- 17% after inferior ami, p less than 0.001 and p = 0.016, respectively. the 4-hour mibg defect score correlated inversely with the predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction, r = -0.73, p less than 0.001. patients with ventricular arrhythmia of greater than or equal to 1 ventricular premature complexes per hour, paired ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia detected during the late hospital phase had higher 4-hour mibg defect scores, 62.5 +/- 15.0%, than patients with no detectable complex ventricular ectopic activity and a ventricular premature complex frequency of less than 1 per hour, 44.6 +/- 23.4%, p = 0.036.
restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis to study the genetic origin of complete hydatidiform mole. to determine the genetic origin of the complete hydatidiform mole, 20 abnormal pregnancies were studied with restriction fragment length polymorphism with five genomic probes: ej 6.6, beta-globin gene, 3'alpha-hypervariable region, j-bir, and st14. in the 12 cases of molar pregnancy, pure paternal origin was proved in 11 cases, but both maternal and paternal inheritance were shown in only one case. in the cases with pure paternal origin, all of the restriction fragment length polymorphisms were homozygous, although those of the fathers were heterozygous at 15 loci. in the four cases that mimicked hydatidiform mole but were diagnosed as hydropic change of villi, both paternal and maternal inheritance were noted. in the four pregnancies with blighted ovum, both paternal and maternal inheritance were shown in three cases; and in one case with a balanced translocation between chromosomes 13 and 14, only paternal inheritance was noted. this study showed that most of the complete hydatidiform moles were caused by fertilization of an empty egg by a duplicated haploid sperm, but rare exceptions may exist.
choledochotomy for calculous disease in the elderly. to determine the risk of operations on the biliary tract in the elderly, we retrospectively examined 56 patients 80 years of age or older undergoing choledochotomy for calculous disease and compared their outcomes with those of a contemporary group of 257 patients undergoing similar surgery. thirty of 56 elderly patients (54%) required urgent surgery for acute cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, or obstructive jaundice (serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dl), compared with 97 of 257 younger patients (38%) (p = 0.029). mortality in elderly patients was significantly higher (5 of 56) than in younger (6 of 257) patients (p = 0.015). in three of the five patients who died, urgent surgery was performed for obstructive jaundice, reflecting the higher mortality experienced by jaundiced patients in the entire series (9.4%). biliary cultures grew organisms in 25 of 27 elderly patients (93%). this is in contrast to findings of bactibilia in 62 of 118 patients (53%) under the age of 80 (p = 0.001). similarly, preoperative blood cultures were positive more often in elderly (63%) than in younger patients (26%) (p = 0.007). mean postoperative hospital recovery was longer in the elderly group (16.2 +/- 8.5 days) than in the younger group (12.2 +/- 9.3 days) (p = 0.002). in conclusion, elderly patients, particularly those with obstructive jaundice, are at higher risk for complicated biliary tract disease necessitating choledochotomy. they appear to be more susceptible to bactibilia and bacteremia, and require longer hospital recovery than younger patients.
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis. in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis, we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin (piperacillin) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination. whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections, such as acute cholangitis, however, is still unclear. we, therefore, conducted a three center, prospective, randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis. during a 36 month period, 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin (n = 49) or ampicillin plus tobramycin (n = 47). the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters. the incidence of blood cultures with positive results (20 versus 21 per cent) and underlying malignant lesions (51 versus 62 per cent) was also similar between the two groups. the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups (69 versus 70 per cent). however, there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions (83 versus 59 per cent, p less than 0.01). no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity, but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities (2 versus 19 per cent, p less than 0.05). these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction.
immunochemical studies on the differential binding properties of two monoclonal antibodies reacting with tn red cells. two monoclonal antibodies (moabs), bric 66 (igm) and bric 111 (igg1), were produced by immunizing mice with ovarian cyst blood group a1 glycoprotein and tn red cells (rbcs), respectively. their specificities were determined by inhibitions using tn sialoglycoproteins (sgps), mucins (armadillo [asg] and ovine [osg] submaxillary glycoproteins), and monosaccharides. bric 66 agglutinated both tn and group a rbcs and reacted immunohistochemically with both the vascular endothelium and tumor cells from a group a adenocarcinoma, bric 66 was inhibited by n-acetylgalactosamine (galnac), tn sgps, and mucins on both hemagglutination inhibition tests and radioimmunoassay. bric 111 agglutinated tn rbcs only, and it specifically stained tumor cells from a group o patient's breast carcinoma and a group a patient's adenocarcinoma. in hemagglutination inhibition tests, bric 111 was readily inhibited by tn sgps, only partially inhibited by galnac, and not inhibited by mucins. in a sensitive radioimmunoassay, bric 111 was inhibitable by galnac. tn sgp was 2000-fold more effective as an inhibitor than the mucins (asg and desialized osg), which contain a high content of terminal alpha-galnac-o-serine (threonine) residues. it is postulated that bric 66 is specific for terminal alpha-galnac units in carbohydrate chains. the exclusive reaction of bric 111 with tn sgp indicates a combining site larger than galnac alpha-1, which probably includes amino acid residues in juxtaposition to galnac in tn sgp. in view of its specific agglutination of tn rbcs, bric 111 is a useful reagent for the examination of polyagglutinable rbcs.
intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma. the presence of perineural spread in relation to site, size, local extension, and metastatic spread in 22 cases. twenty-two patients with an intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma (acc), initially treated by surgery with or without postoperative radiotherapy, were examined for the presence of perineural spread in relation to primary site, size, local extension, histologic status of the surgical margins, and metastatic spread of the tumor. there seems to be no correlation between perineural spread and the primary site or size of the tumor. however, perineural spread occurred more often in tumors with local extension and in cases with surgical margins with positive results. there seems to be no statistically significant correlation between perineural invasion and distant metastatic disease.
expression of the antimetastatic gene nm23 in human breast cancer: an association with good prognosis. the nm23 gene was identified in murine melanoma cells, in which its expression is associated with the cells' metastatic potential. expression of nm23 has been detected in human breast tumors by means of hybridization and immunocytochemistry. we measured nm23 mrna in 71 patients with primary breast cancer and found variable levels of nm23 expression. the nm23 gene was expressed at higher levels in well-differentiated tumors (p less than .02). there was a significant inverse relationship between nm23 expression and nodal status (p less than .02). expression of nm23 was positively associated with longer disease-free survival and overall survival, and the relationships were significant (p less than .002 and p less than .003, respectively). this study showed that nm23 expression in human breast cancer was associated with good prognosis and a lack of lymph node metastasis and suggests that the nm23 gene product may play an important role in suppressing the metastatic phenotype.
resection and reconstruction for soft-tissue sarcomas of the extremity. soft-tissue sarcomas are uncommon malignant tumors, and when a diagnosis is made early, the patient has up to an 80% chance of surviving. in treating soft-tissue sarcomas, the goal of the surgeon is the prolongation of patient survival, the total eradication of local disease, and the minimization of functional deficits. in addition to treatment, this article discusses evaluation, histology, and staging.
hormonal treatment of functional ovarian cysts: a randomized, prospective study. estrogen (e)/progestin therapy for functional ovarian cysts is widely used in clinical practice, but the efficacy of this treatment has not been determined in controlled trials. in this study, we examined the effect of e/progestin administration in a group of infertility patients enrolled in a program of ovulation induction who had cysts identified by transvaginal sonography. patients were randomized to receive either norethindrone 1 mg/mestranol 0.05 mg/d (group a, n = 24) or no treatment (group b, n = 24) for up to 6 weeks. patients were re-evaluated by sonography at 3, 6, and 9 weeks after entry into the protocol. the ages, mean cyst diameters, and proportions of patients having received gonadotropins in the previous menstrual cycle were not significantly different among the two groups. all patients who had a sonographic abnormality persisting for 9 weeks were surgically explored and found to have pathological cysts. the rate of disappearance of functional ovarian cysts was not affected by e/progestin treatment.
symptomatic pineal cyst: case report. pineal cysts are being described with increasing frequency since the advent of magnetic resonance imaging. although pineal cysts are incidental findings in as many as 4% of magnetic resonance imaging studies, symptomatic pineal cysts are quite rare. we present a case of pineal cyst causing aqueductal obstruction with symptomatic hydrocephalus and resultant headache and syncope, which was treated by surgical resection. a review of the relevant literature and discussion follow.
mechanism of antitumor activity of tumor necrosis factor alpha with hyperthermia in a tumor necrosis factor alpha-resistant tumor. cells from a radiation-induced fibrosarcoma (rif-1) are exceedingly resistant to tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) in vitro. we tested whether the addition of mild hyperthermia (42.5 degrees c, 30 minutes) could enhance tnf-alpha activity against rif-1 tumors growing in syngeneic hosts (c3h mice). tnf-alpha was administered intratumorally. tumor cell killing essentially was not measurable following tnf-alpha, hyperthermia, or a combination of the two. single-modality treatments also had no effect on tumor growth delay or on the x-ray dose (given 24 hours after the primary treatment) required to sterilize 50% of the tumors. the combination of tnf-alpha and hyperthermia, however, resulted in a marked increase in tumor doubling time and a highly significant reduction in the x-ray dose required to sterilize the tumors. syngeneic lymph nodal lymphocytes and blood leukocytes did not appear to mediate the action of tnf-alpha on rif-1 cells in vitro. necrosis and hemorrhage were the most prominent histopathological alterations in the treated tumors. electron microscopic studies 6 hours after therapy showed increased damage to capillary endothelial cells and accumulation of neutrophils in the capillaries of tumors treated with tnf-alpha with or without heat, suggesting that neutrophils may mediate the endothelial cell injury. these observations indicate a greater than additive tumoricidal effect of tnf-alpha with hyperthermia. furthermore, they support the concept that the interaction between the two agents damages the vasculature, compromising the microcirculation and ultimately causing ischemic tumor necrosis.
boronate affinity chromatography of gamma-glutamyltransferase in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. we analyzed the serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-gt) by boronate affinity chromatography to ascertain the presence or absence of any changes in the binding properties of gamma-gt toward boronate gels in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis, and in normal controls. the mean gamma-gt activity ratio of the bound (peak 2) and nonbound (peak 1) fraction in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma was significantly higher than that in patients with liver cirrhosis or in normal controls. thus, the gamma-gt, which has adjacent cis-hydroxyl groups in its carbohydrate moieties, was found to increase in the serum of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. the positivity rate was examined in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis, using a cut-off level for the peak 2:peak 1 ratio of 1.05 (mean + 2 sd of liver cirrhosis). nineteen (42.2%) patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had a ratio of peak 2:peak 1 higher than 1.05. nine of the 19 patients who had serum alpha-fetoprotein levels below 100 ng/ml had an elevated peak 2:peak 1 ratio. in total, 77.8% of the occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma could be detected by a combination of these two markers. three patients who had developed hepatocellular carcinoma during the course of cirrhosis but remained negative for alpha-fetoprotein throughout the course developed higher levels of peak 2:peak 1 ratio when hepatocellular carcinoma occurred. these results indicate that the two markers, the peak 2:peak 1 ratio of serum gamma-gt activity and serum alpha-fetoprotein level, may be considered to serve as complementary markers for the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.
magnetic resonance imaging for assessment of vena caval tumor thrombi: a comparative study with venacavography and computerized tomography scanning. we assessed the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in demonstrating the presence and extent of vena caval tumor thrombi. the study group included 20 patients with vena caval thrombi from renal cell carcinoma (18), renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma (1) and adrenal pheochromocytoma (1). preoperative diagnostic studies included magnetic resonance imaging in all patients, inferior venacavography in 16 and computerized tomography scanning in 15. all patients underwent an operation in which the presence and extent of the vena caval thrombus were confirmed. magnetic resonance imaging accurately delineated the presence and extent of the thrombus in all 20 patients (100%). venacavography was accurate in 15 patients (94%) but 8 (50%) required a retrograde and antegrade study. computerized tomography scanning demonstrated the presence of a tumor thrombus in all 15 patients but accurately delineated the cephalad extent of the thrombus in only 5 (33%). in patients with vena caval tumor thrombi magnetic resonance imaging can provide accurate information regarding the extent of vena caval involvement while avoiding the need for an invasive contrast imaging study.
perforation and tumor formation of the intestine in primary amyloidosis. we report a case of primary amyloidosis with repeated bowel perforations. this patient also had localized amyloid deposition creating a tumorous region mimicking malignancy in the rectum. perforation of the intestine is common in systemic amyloidosis. the ischemic change due to amyloid infiltration into the vessel wall may lead to perforation of the affected bowel. amyloid tumors occur more often in localized amyloid than in systemic amyloidosis. macroscopically, it is difficult to distinguish amyloid tumor of the intestine from neoplasia.
ascites revealing peritoneal and hepatic extramedullary hematopoiesis with peliosis in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia: case report and review of the literature. a 61-year-old man presented with ascites in the course of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (amm). ascitic fluid was exudative and contained mature and immature leukocytes, erythroid cells, and megakaryocytes as observed on a bone marrow smear. peritoneal biopsy showed myeloid metaplasia, and liver biopsy revealed intrasinusoidal myeloid metaplasia and peliosis. ascites cleared after abdominal radiotherapy but treatment resulted in transient aplasia. subsequently, portal hypertension was demonstrated by hepatic transjugular catheterization. complications of splenomegaly led to splenectomy and splenorenal shunt followed by fatal acute hepatitis and septic shock. a review of the literature and an analysis of mechanisms of ascites occurring in amm, especially peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue and occurrence of peliosis in myeloproliferative disorders, are presented.
microinvasive carcinoma of the uterine cervix (international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage ia). in 1985 the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics (figo) subdivided stage ia cervical cancer and specified metric criteria to demarcate stage ia from stage ib. early stromal invasion (stage ia1) denotes the first invasive protrusions of a carcinoma in situ into the stroma. microcarcinomas (stage ia2) are small cancers a number of orders of magnitude larger than stage ia1 lesions and with a maximum depth of invasion of 5 mm and a maximum horizontal spread of 7 mm; larger lesions are classified as stage ib. this study reviews 486 patients previously classified as having stage ia disease. this yielded 344 stage ia1 and 101 stage ia2 lesions; 41 cancers were reclassified as stage ib. three hundred nine, 89, and 38 patients were followed for greater than or equal to 5 years. one (0.3%) patient with stage ia1 disease re-presented with stage iib disease 12 years after conization. five (5.6%) patients with stage ia2 lesions developed invasive recurrences; three died. none of the 38 patients reclassified as having a stage ib lesion, including 16 who were treated conservatively, developed a recurrence. the figo classification is not a guideline for treatment. stage ia1 lesions can be treated conservatively, but treatment in stage ia2 must be individualized. risk factors such as vascular space involvement and confluency are of high sensitivity but low specificity.
composite reconstruction for chest wall and scalp using multiple ribs-latissimus dorsi osteomyocutaneous flaps as pedicled and free flaps. a composite flap is presented based on the latissimus dorsi myocutaneous unit together with the underlying ninth to eleventh ribs. three patients are presented. in two, a full-thickness chest-wall defect was present. in one, a full-thickness scalp and cranial defect was present. use of the composite osteomyocutaneous latissimus dorsi free flap as a pedicled flap in two patients and as a free flap in one patient resulted in successful definitive reconstruction in all with no complications. this procedure necessitates no transplantation of soft tissue prior to bone grafting to maintain local vascularity, so the simultaneous one-stage reconstruction of an osseous-soft-tissue defect becomes possible easily.
decreased operative risk of surgical treatment of mitral regurgitation with or without coronary artery disease. the consecutive 2 year experience with patients undergoing first-time surgery for mitral regurgitation with and without coronary artery disease was reviewed. from january 1988 to january 1990, 127 patients with pure mitral regurgitation undergoing first-time operation were surgically treated. no other valve lesion, no reoperation and no congenital defects were included. the mean patient age was 62 years with 26% of the patients greater than 70 years. twenty-six percent of the entire group was in functional class iv. seventy-five patients received mitral valve repair and 52 underwent mitral valve replacement with a st. jude or hancock valve. in patients undergoing mitral valve repair, there was a higher incidence of those greater than 70 years old and of coronary artery disease and in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement there was a higher incidence of functional class iv. the operative mortality rate was 2.3% (3 of 127 patients). no patient failed to be discontinued from cardiopulmonary bypass and all three deaths occurred after mitral valve replacement, with one from complications of chronic renal failure and dialysis. there was no significant difference in patients who either did or did not have a concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and there was no difference related to age or functional class. postoperative complications occurred in five patients in the valve repair group, including recurrent mitral regurgitation in two necessitating reoperation, and in three patients in the valve replacement group. with newer operative and postoperative management techniques, especially preservation of the papillary muscle annular continuity, the risk of mitral valve surgery, particularly of valve repair, is considerably lower than in previous years.
the effect of metoclopramide on ovarian responsiveness to gonadotropin administration in patients with severe polycystic ovarian syndrome. six patients with poor ovarian response to menotropin after pretreatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog exhibited improved ovarian responsiveness when metoclopramide was added on days 3, 5, and 7 of the cycle. this was evidenced by a higher number of leading follicles (4.4 versus 0.6), a higher mean of maximal serum 17 beta-estradiol levels (560 versus 178 pg/ml), a shorter duration of menotropin treatment (7 versus 11 days), and fewer ampules of menotropin used (20 versus 37 ampules/cycle) in metoclopramide-treated cycles as compared with control cycles, respectively. serum prolactin levels reached a maximum of 172 ng/ml within 1 hour after metoclopramide administration and declined to normal range within 6 hours. these results suggest that intermittent increased prolactin secretion may augment ovarian response to gonadotropins.
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome. helicobacter pylori (previously campylobacter pylori) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease. the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown. we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome. h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic (elisa) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori. we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years, median age 51. six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease (p less than 0.05). pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr, median 35.2. pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr; median 52.7. acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients (bao 24.5 +/- 6.5 vs 45.4 +/- 6.6, and mao 44.3 +/- 11.8 vs 67.9 +/- 10.7, for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients, respectively). the difference in bao was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome. the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related.
pulmonary effects of ischemic limb reperfusion: evidence for a role for oxygen-derived radicals. objective: to evaluate the lung as a reperfusion target after limb ischemia-reperfusion, and to measure specifically the oxygen radical response to this reperfusion. design: paired simple randomized, with continuous interval data in dependent variable and both continuous and nominal independent variables. subjects and intervention: sprague-dawley male rats (n = 195) were anesthetized and both hind limbs occluded for 3.75 hr, the overnight ld50. alveolar lavage was performed on the animals 1 hr after reperfusion or on survivors 20 hr after reperfusion. groups were either undosed or pretreated with alpha-tocopherol as an antioxidant (50 mg/kg.day) 2 days before ischemia. measurements and main results: luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence was measured in both phorbol myristate acetate-stimulated and unstimulated macrophages. nanomoles of superoxide radicals per 10(6) alveolar cells/min were also measured using a cytochrome c reduction assay. a significant (p less than .01, student's t-test), time-dependent increase in response of cells from ischemic-reperfused rats was seen. pretreatment with antioxidant had no effect at 1 hr, but significant differences were seen in the 20-hr survivors. conclusions: these studies show that alveolar lavage cells, 95% macrophages, reflect the reperfusion of ischemic-reperfused hind limbs by a significant increase in oxygen radical activity, an effect partly suppressed in antioxidant-dosed survivors.
a rational attitude toward serum alanine aminotransferase measurement by blood banks, based on a longitudinal study of a cohort of repeat blood donors. a cohort of 879 blood donors was followed over a 3-year period. of the 3858 units of blood collected, 112 (2.9%), obtained from 64 donors, had an alanine aminotransferase (alt) activity over 45 iu per l; of these, 39 had a single alt elevation. the incidence of alt increase was 2.01 per 100 units, or 5.1 per 100 donors, per year. the pattern of elevated alt was followed in 72 donors, 54 of whom were from the 64 cited above. at the second blood donation (bd2), about 5 months later, 62.5 percent had a normal alt value, and most (91%) retained those values at blood donation 3 (bd3). however, 19 (70.3%) of the 27 whose alt levels had not returned to normal at bd2 had an increased value at bd3. these results led to the formulation of the following algorithm to improve the management of blood donors; at the first donation, the alt assay is done after the blood collection, but, at the next donation, the alt level is measured before donation if the preceding alt activity had been abnormal. if alt is elevated, blood is not collected. three consecutive alt elevations are a criterion for permanent exclusion of the donor.
persistent and recurrent hyperparathyroidism: assessment with gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging. the effect of gadopentetate dimeglumine on signal intensity of abnormal parathyroid glands was assessed in 14 patients with persistent and recurrent hyperparathyroidism. non-contrast material-enhanced t1- and t2-weighted spin-echo images were compared with t1-weighted images obtained 1 minute and 10 minutes after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine. percentage of contrast between the abnormal gland and surrounding tissue was determined with the use of skeletal muscle, subcutaneous fat, and thyroid gland as reference tissues. all 11 abnormal parathyroid glands showed low to intermediate signal intensity on t1-weighted images and high signal intensity on t2-weighted images. gadopentetate dimeglumine significantly increased the signal intensity enhancement ratio of all abnormal parathyroid glands, causing increased percentage of contrast relative to the thyroid gland and skeletal muscle on t1-weighted images. however, the percentage of contrast relative to these tissues was even greater on nonenhanced t2-weighted images. thus, gadopentetate dimeglumine can substantially enhance the signal intensity of abnormal parathyroid glands and improve differential contrast with some neighboring tissues on t1-weighted images, but it does not improve contrast with surrounding tissue beyond that achieved on t2-weighted images.
temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury. temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury are reported. in one patient, longitudinal fractures occurred in both temporal bones, and extended to the middle ear bilaterally. bleeding was seen in the tympanic cavity, mastoid air cells, internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal. bleeding was observed in the scala tympani, cochlear aqueduct and endolymphatic sac, but there were no fractures. in the other patient, bleeding was seen in the internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal. in the right ear, endolymphatic hydrops was observed in all turns of the cochlea.
spontaneous rupture of the spleen in initial presentation of hodgkin's disease. a 46-year-old man presented with a four-week history of fevers, occasional chills, and a two-week history of sweats and poor appetite. he also complained of progressive weakness and lethargy. after initial evaluation, while awaiting further consultation, the patient developed rapidly progressing abdominal pain and light-headedness. he was moved immediately into the emergency treatment area. he was noted to have an acute abdomen and was taken to surgery. an enlarged hodgkin's-infiltrated spleen with an actively bleeding hematoma was removed. the patient denied any history of trauma.
magnetic resonance imaging of fourth ventricular epidermoid tumors. two pathologically proved cases of epidermoid tumor of the fourth ventricle are presented; clinical history and computed tomographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and histopathologic findings are included.
use of plasmid profiles in the investigation of a patient with helicobacter pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease. plasmids may effect bacterial virulence and antibiotic resistance, and serve as epidemiologic markers. in this study, plasmid dna profiles of serial isolates of helicobacter pylori showed persistence of an identical strain of this organism in a patient with duodenal ulcer disease. three control strains of h. pylori isolated from other patients contained plasmids different from each other and from that of the original patient; two of these strains had two plasmids each. these data have important implications for further study of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of h. pylori-related diseases.
cystic rheumatoid arthritis: description of a nonerosive form. in a study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra), 9% (n = 70) were found to have a cystic form. at radiologic examination of these patients with cystic ra, the first abnormality seen consisted of periarticular intraosseous cysts without erosions. the cysts were distributed symmetrically, most often located at the proximal side of the joints and predominantly around the proximal interphalangeal, metacarpophalangeal, and wrist joints of the hands and the first interphalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints of the feet. computed tomographic scans showed the peripheral intraosseous location of the cysts. magnetic resonance images showed that the cysts may contain fluid, inflamed synovia, or both. cysts can be an important feature in the diagnosis of ra and a supplement to the criteria of the american rheumatism association. osteoporosis, joint-space narrowing, and joint destruction occurred less frequently in patients with cystic ra than in patients with classic ra. of the patients with cystic ra, 54% were male, and 50% were seronegative. this study is a supplement to and an enlargement on earlier descriptions of cyst predominance in ra.
congenital craniofacial anomalies of ophthalmic importance. congenital craniofacial abnormalities frequently require ophthalmic evaluation and surgical management. called upon to perform as part of the craniofacial team managing the often severely deformed craniofacial patient, the ophthalmologist must bring a basic knowledge of craniofacial syndromes and developmental anatomy, as well as clinical acumen to help preserve or improve ocular and adnexal function. as an introduction to this area of ophthalmology, the clinical features, classification, appropriate facial embryology, assessment and surgical considerations of the various congenital craniofacial abnormalities are reviewed. the expanding availability of craniofacial surgeons and surgical teams along with improved surgical results will ultimately require an increasing involvement by many more ophthalmologists in the evaluation and management of these congenital abnormalities.
pathophysiologic changes in the critically ill patient: risk factors for ulceration and altered drug metabolism. virtually all patients who are under the physiologic stress of an intensive care unit (icu) are vulnerable to stress-related mucosal damage and ulceration. although clinically significant hemorrhage from stress ulceration occurs in only 5-20 percent of patients in the icu, the associated mortality is greater than 50 percent. the pathophysiologic mechanisms of stress ulcer are not well understood; however, a number of risk factors such as intraluminal gastric acidity and mucosal ischemia have been implicated. to prevent the development of stress ulcers and subsequent complications, it is important to identify and correct these underlying risk factors. improving mucosal blood flow (i.e., fluid resuscitation and low-dose dopamine) and providing adequate nutritional support are invaluable adjuncts in minimizing the risk of stress ulcer formation. the use of pharmacologic prophylaxis controls the gastric acidity and prevents the formation of stress ulcers. the potential for drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions are of particular concern in the care of critically ill patients. multiple organ system dysfunction or failure, malnutrition, fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, as well as the use of multiple pharmacologic agents predispose these patients to alterations in drug pharmacokinetics, drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions. these changes may alter the pharmacodynamic response to therapy and must be considered when designing drug dosage regimens for critically ill patients.
endometrioma of the liver. hepatic endometriosis is extremely rare. we describe a patient sent to us with epigastric pain as the only symptom and who was found to have associated endometrioma of the liver and left ovary. we suggest a gynecologic evaluation before surgery for hepatic cyst of unknown cause.
quantitative proton magnetic resonance imaging in focal cerebral ischemia in rat brain. proton magnetic resonance (mr) imaging has been recommended as a diagnostic tool for the detection of focal cerebral ischemia. we compared microscopic mr images of rat brains after focal cerebral ischemia with evidence of histological damage found on corresponding silver-impregnated or cresyl violet-stained brain sections. ten male wistar rats were subjected to permanent unilateral occlusions of the right middle cerebral and common carotid arteries under halothane anesthesia. twenty-four hours later the area of injury on mr images amounted to 26% of the total slice area, whereas only 9% of the total slice area was necrotic on histological sections from the same animals. the infarcted areas on tissue sections were surrounded by regions of selective neuronal injury in the cerebral cortex and occasionally in the hippocampus. the area of injury on mr images was larger than the combined areas of infarction and selective neuronal injury on histological sections. areas of increased t2 values on mr images extended medially into noninfarcted striatum and laterally and dorsally into noninfarcted cortex. the lateral and dorsal areas on mr images frequently coincided with cortical areas in which considerable selective neuronal injury was present in the upper cortical layers. we hypothesize that the abnormal areas on mr images above histologically normal brain tissue represent the ischemic penumbra. if true, this is the first demonstration of the ischemic penumbra by mr imaging and may reflect our use of wistar rats, a new image analysis technique, and ultra-high resolution mr imaging.
videodensitometry versus digital calipers for quantitative coronary angiography. single-plane left coronary angiograms in 18 patients were prospectively analyzed using videodensitometry (xr-70 system) and handheld digital calipers to compare arterial dimensions, stenosis dimensions, intraobserver variability and interobserver variability for the methods. a total of 648 arterial segments were measured, yielding a highly significant correlation between videodensitometry and caliper-determined cross-sectional area (r = 0.96, p = 0.0001). similarly, a highly significant linear relation was observed between videodensitometry and caliper-determined diameter (r = 0.95, p = 0.0001). when data subsets for small, medium and large arterial segments were examined, higher variability in the correlation between videodensitometry and caliper-determined area was observed in the large segments (greater than 10 mm2). in addition, caliper-estimated areas tended to be slightly smaller than videodensitometry-estimated areas in these segments. for diameter estimations, correlations between caliper and videodensitometry data were similar for the entire range of arterial segment sizes. intra- and interobserver variability was low for both caliper and videodensitometry determination of diameter or area. thus, over a wide range of arterial dimensions, results obtained with caliper estimates of luminal area and diameter are comparable to those obtained with videodensitometry using the xr-70 system.
combined surgical resection and iridium 192 implantation for locally advanced and recurrent desmoid tumors. thirty-eight histologically confirmed desmoid tumors were treated with conservative surgical resection and interstitial iridium 192. patients included in this series constituted a poor prognostic group. seventy five percent (75%) had previous recurrences of their disease and 50% had tumors 8 cm or greater in size. in addition, 16% of the patients had gross residual disease after surgical excision and 79% had positive or close margins of resection. with a median follow-up of 5.5 years, the 5-year actuarial in-field local control rate was 75% and the overall local control rate was 66%. four of the 12 local recurrences developed at the periphery of the implant volume and four patients failed at least 3 cm or more beyond the treated volume. after salvage therapy, the 5-year actuarial local control rate was 95%. two patients required amputation for recurrent disease. thirty of 34 patients remain free of disease with an excellent functional result achieved. the authors conclude that surgical resection and postoperative interstitial iridium 192 is effective therapy for patients with desmoid tumors. despite the fact that most patients in this series had bulky, recurrent tumors, excellent long-term local control and limb function were achieved.
effect of age on the efficacy of blood pressure treatment strategies. to study whether the proportion of excess cardiovascular events attributable to various levels of systolic blood pressure varies with age, we calculated the population-attributable risk of all-cause mortality, fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events (stroke, coronary heart disease, angina, congestive heart failure, and peripheral vascular disease), and stroke incidence due to systolic blood pressure in men and women 45 years of age or older in the united states during 1980. our estimates are based on us census counts, blood pressure prevalence distributions from the second national health and nutrition examination survey, and the annual risk of cardiovascular complications during 18 years of follow-up in the framingham cohort. we then determined the impact of age on the relative efficacy of mass treatment and case-finding strategies in preventing systolic blood pressure-related events. at 45-54 years of age, only 30-40% of systolic blood pressure-related excess events occur in hypertensive individuals (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm hg). with increasing age, however, the percentage of systolic blood pressure-related events that occur in hypertensive individuals rose substantially; in the older age group (greater than or equal to 75 years), 65-70% of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular disease events occur in hypertensive persons. the pattern is similar for men and women. the potential impact of a mass treatment strategy designed to shift the distribution of blood pressure downward by a small amount is greater in younger than in older groups, whereas an opposite trend is seen for a high-risk, hypertensive case-finding and treatment approach.
human immunodeficiency virus associated with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura: successful treatment with zidovudine. thrombocytopenia associated with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) is well described, and two recent reports show a beneficial effect with the antiretroviral agent zidovudine (zdv). hiv-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp) has recently been observed, but the use of zdv for it has not been previously described. we have reported a case of relapsing ttp in an hiv-positive man who achieved remission with plasmapheresis and antiplatelet therapy initially, but multiple relapses necessitated the addition of vincristine and zdv to induce a sustained remission.
resection and reconstruction for bone tumors in the proximal tibia. the proximal tibia is a common site for both benign and malignant tumors. this article reviews pertinent anatomy, clinical presentation, and staging methods for tumors of this area. discussion is given to various methods of resection and reconstruction with useful guidelines for procedure selection. the use of allografts for reconstruction is discussed in depth.
dmpo and reperfusion injury: arrhythmia, heart function, electron spin resonance, and nuclear magnetic resonance studies in isolated working guinea pig hearts. with the use of isolated working guinea pig hearts with normothermic global ischemia, it was shown that 5,5-dimethyl-pirroline-n-oxide (dmpo), an organic spin trap agent designed specifically to form stable adducts with oxygen free radicals in electron spin resonance studies, can dramatically reduce the vulnerability of the heart to reperfusion-induced arrhythmias. studied in concentrations ranging from 10 to 500 mumol/l, dmpo exerted a dose-dependent protective effect. thus, after 30 minutes of global ischemia, the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (total) and tachycardia was reduced from control values of 100% and 100% to 100% and 100%, 91% and 100%, 25% (p less than 0.001) and 50% (p less than 0.05), and 25% (p less than 0.001) and 41% (p less than 0.05), respectively, with dmpo concentrations of 10, 30, 100, and 500 mumol/l. maximum signals of dmpo-oh adduct, with the use of electron spin resonance studies, were observed after 3 minutes of reperfusion in fibrillated hearts but were not detected in nonfibrillated hearts. results of nuclear magnetic resonance studies of myocardial adenosine triphosphate, creatine phosphate, ph, and inorganic phosphate showed that these parameters were not significantly changed by treatment with dmpo, and consequently myocardial heart function was not improved, although there was a dissociation between myocardial adenosine triphosphate content and left ventricular developed pressure during reperfusion. the data presented here indicate that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the development of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias but trapping these cytotoxic free radicals does not improve the recovery of postischemic heart function and high-energy phosphate contents in isolated working guinea pig hearts.
alternation of gastric mucosal glycoprotein (lectin-binding pattern) in gastric mucosa in stress. a light and electron microscopic study. gastric mucosal cells of the rat glandular stomach were studied by light and electron microscopic procedures by use of lectins in the development of acute gastric mucosal lesions. effects of the h2-receptor antagonist sofalcone (2'carboxymethoxy-4,4'-bis 3-methyl-2) and truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty on lectin binding sites and distribution were also investigated. biotinylated lectins in combination with abc (avidin-biotinyl peroxidase complex) method were used for light and horseradish peroxidase (hrp)-labeled lectins for electron microscopic studies. gastric mucosal cells showed the specific binding pattern for each lectin by light microscopy. especially, binding sites and distribution of peanut agglutinin (pna) were characteristic after induction of stress, truncal vagotomy, and administration of each drug. staining and distribution increased in the gastric mucosa upward and downward after that. in electron microscopic studies, pna strongly stained the membranes of the intracellular secretory canaliculi of a parietal cell. these results suggested that alternation of binding sites and distribution was regulated by change of gastric mucosal blood flow and of acidity in the parietal cells. therefore, increase of glycoconjugate distribution is supposed to be a possibility of cytoprotective effect for a change of environment in the parietal cells.
pathogenesis and treatment of intra-abdominal infection. intra-abdominal infection is considered potentially life-threatening. such infection is frequently secondary to perforated viscera, trauma or inflammatory disease. simple abscesses may be drained percutaneously with roentgenologic guidance; complex abscesses often require open surgical drainage. secondary peritonitis is usually polymicrobial; broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy effective against aerobic and anaerobic gram-negative bacteria, as well as gram-positive organisms, is essential. newer antibiotics, administered either singly or in combination, have been used successfully to treat intra-abdominal infection while avoiding the toxicity of aminoglycosides.
pneumococcal peritonitis complicating capd--was the indwelling intrauterine device to blame? a 45-year-old woman on capd developed pneumococcal peritonitis. this is the second such case of streptococcus pneumoniae peritonitis complicating capd. the role of an indwelling intrauterine device (iud) in producing ascending infection into the peritoneum is discussed, especially in women with evidence of retrograde menstruation. a review of the literature concerning pneumococcal peritonitis associated with iud is given. possible contraception to women on capd is briefly mentioned.
spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis. we report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester. spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred, associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome.
effects of mental stress on myocardial perfusion in patients with ischemic heart disease. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether and to what extent mental stress can reproduce the perfusion defects that are known to be induced by exercise. twenty-four patients with recent myocardial infarction (new york heart association functional class i) and evidence of ischemic response were evaluated by means of sestamibi scintigraphy performed once after exercise and then again within 2 days after mental arithmetic. baseline, exercise, and mental stress planar scintigrams were divided into 15 segments, and each segment was reviewed and scored on a scale of 0 to 3 by experienced observers using circumferential profile analysis. conflicting scores were resolved by consensus. electrocardiographic abnormalities were found in 15 of 24 patients during exercise and in none during mental arithmetic. chest pain was experienced by five patients during exercise and by none during mental stress. twenty patients showed reversible perfusion defects during mental stress. of the 360 pooled scintigram segments, 99 evidenced uptake defects during exercise, and 48 of these showed the same defects during mental stress. twenty of the remaining 51 of 99 segments were adjacent to segments showing reversible hypoperfusion, suggesting milder hypoperfusion in these segments during mental arithmetic than during exercise. furthermore, 10 segments showed reversible defects only during mental stress such that seven of these occurred in areas adjacent to those that had shown exercise-induced reversible perfusion defects, two occurred in areas that had shown fixed sestamibi defects during exercise, and one occurred in a segment that had shown completely normal uptake during exercise.
maximal o2 uptake of in situ dog muscle during acute hypoxemia with constant perfusion. we investigated the relationships among maximal o2 uptake (vo2max), effluent venous po2 (pvo2), and calculated mean capillary po2 (pco2) in isolated dog gastrocnemius in situ as arterial po2 (pao2) was progressively reduced with muscle blood flow held constant. the hypothesis that vo2max is determined in part by peripheral tissue o2 diffusion predicts proportional declines in vo2max and pco2 if the diffusing capacity of the muscle remains constant. the inspired o2 fraction was altered in each of six dogs to produce four different levels of pao2 [22 +/- 2, 29 +/- 1, 38 +/- 1, and 79 +/- 4 (se) torr]. muscle blood flow, with the circulation isolated, was held constant at 122 +/- 15 ml.100 g-1.min-1 while the muscle worked maximally (isometric twitches at 5-7 hz) at each of the four different values of pao2. arterial and venous samples were taken to measure lactate, ph, po2, pco2, and muscle vo2. pco2 was calculated using fick's law of diffusion and a bohr integration procedure. vo2max fell progressively (p less than 0.01) with decreasing pao2. the decline in vo2max was proportional (r = 0.99) to the fall in both muscle pvo2 and calculated pco2 while the calculated muscle diffusing capacity was not different among the four conditions. fatigue developed more rapidly with lower pao2, although lactate output from the muscle was not different among conditions. these results are consistent with the hypothesis that resistance to o2 diffusion in the peripheral tissue may be a principal determinant of vo2max.
blood rheology after cardiac valve replacement with mechanical prostheses or bioprostheses. arterial thromboembolism is a serious complication in patients after heart valve replacement. abnormalities in blood rheology may contribute to this complication. therefore, the aim of this study was to compare various determinants of blood rheology in patients with substitute heart valves with those in healthy controls; furthermore, differences between patients with mechanical valves and those with bioprostheses should be investigated. the hemorrheologic determinants--fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, hematocrit and platelet aggregation--were studied in 92 patients with mechanical bileaflet valves, in 28 patients with bioprostheses and in 29 control subjects; the time since valve replacement was greater than or equal to 9 months. fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell and spontaneous platelet aggregation were found to be increased in all patients after heart valve replacement compared with normal subjects (fibrinogen: 348 +/- 87 vs 267 +/- 66 mg/dl, p less than 0.01; plasma viscosity: 1.71 +/- 0.1 vs 1.66 +/- 0.1 mpas, p less than 0.05; red cell aggregation: 9.9 +/- 2 vs 7.8 +/- 2 u, p less than 0.01; platelet aggregation: 22 +/- 15 vs 13 +/- 13%, p less than 0.01); among patients, fibrinogen, plasma viscosity and spontaneous platelet aggregation were higher in mechanical valves than in bioprostheses (fibrinogen: 359 +/- 95 vs 314 +/- 41 mg/dl, p less than 0.01; plasma viscosity: 1.72 +/- 0.1 vs 1.68 +/- 0.1 mpas, p less than 0.1; platelet aggregation: 23 +/- 15 vs 16 +/- 11%; p less than 0.05), whereas no difference could be found for red cell aggregation (9.7 +/- 2 vs 10.5 +/- 2%, p greater than 0.05).
posterior transfer of the adductors in children who have cerebral palsy. a long-term study. seventy-eight posterior transfers of the adductors of the hip in forty-two children who has spastic cerebral palsy were reviewed an average of 5.7 years after the operation (range, two to 14.6 years). the results were assessed on the basis of the patient's ability to walk, the range of motion of the affected hip or hips, and the radiographic measurements. in 88 per cent of the patients, the transfer was successful in improving or maintaining abduction, extension, functional walking, and stability of the hip. the failures were all in patients who were unable to walk and who had spastic quadriplegia. tenotomy of the iliopsoas tendon at the time of the transfer procedure resulted in an improved range of motion of the hip.
the placebo effect in heart failure. many patients who are enrolled in controlled clinical trials of new drugs for the treatment of heart failure show favorable hemodynamic and clinical responses to placebo therapy. this "placebo effect" results from both the creation of a supportive therapeutic environment and the spontaneous improvement that is commonly seen when measurements of symptoms and cardiac function are repeated frequently over long intervals of time. three months of treatment with a placebo produces a reduction in symptoms in 25% to 35% of patients, an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in pulmonary wedge pressure, and an increase in exercise tolerance of up to 90 to 120 seconds. physicians commonly seek to maximize the "placebo effect," since the goal of treatment in the clinical setting is to improve the quality of the patient's life. on the other hand, clinical investigators seek to minimize the "placebo effect," since the goal of a research study is to test the hypothesis that the new drug is superior to a placebo.
effects of pressure and volume of the receiving chamber on the spatial distribution of regurgitant jets as imaged by color doppler flow mapping. an in vitro study. regurgitant jet dimensions imaged by color doppler flow mapping have been used to evaluate the severity of valvular insufficiency in clinical studies. to study the effect of pressure and volume within the receiving chamber on the magnitude of spatial distribution of regurgitant jets assessed by color doppler techniques, we designed a simple constant-flow model in which a jet was driven through a known orifice (1.5 mm2) into a compliant receiving chamber by a steady-flow pump. a distal tube at the outflow closed the system and maintained the volume of the chamber constant during pump operation. we varied flow rate from 60 to 270 ml/min into elastic balloons with different static compliances of 1, 2, 4.5, and 9 ml/mm hg (pressures of 57, 28, 18, and 8 mm hg, respectively); the balloons served as receiving chambers at the constant volume of 150 ml. we also evaluated the effect of different volumes of a receiving chamber (110, 130, and 150 ml and pressures of 5, 15, and 24 mm hg) with a static compliance of 2 ml/mm hg over the same range of flow rates. for each of the different balloons, jet area correlated linearly with the jet velocity across the orifice (r = 0.98, 0.99, 0.98, and 0.97) and also with flow rate (r = 0.97, 0.99, 0.98, and 0.99). at the same flow rate and volume of receiving chamber, however, the jet area imaged by color doppler decreased as the pressure in the receiving chamber increased, although receiving-chamber volume was constant.
cardioprotective effects of carnitine in extensive aortocoronary bypass grafting: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. the cardioprotective effects of carnitine were tested in patients undergoing multiple aortocoronary bypass grafting. intermittent aortic cross-clamping at 28 degrees c was used. mean total cross-clamping time was 30 +/- 11 min. patients were randomized into three groups: a control group receiving placebo (group 1), a group pretreated with 3 g carnitine intravenously before cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) (group 2), and a group pretreated with 6 g carnitine intravenously (group 3). the markers of myocardial ischemia included levels of adenosine triphosphate, its catabolites, and creatine phosphate in transmural left ventricular biopsy specimens taken at the beginning and end of cpb, as well as hemodynamic recovery during weaning from cpb and for the next 24 h. the intravenous infusion of carnitine (3 or 6 g) had no hemodynamic effect. at the end of cpb myocardial tissue levels of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate did not differ significantly among the groups (p greater than 0.05). recovery of cardiac function during weaning from cpb and for the following 24 h was similar in all three groups (p greater than 0.05). it is concluded that pretreatment with carnitine neither facilitates weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass in patients undergoing aortocoronary bypass surgery nor favorably affects hemodynamic function during the next 24 h.
peripheral arterial occlusive disease of the extremities in the united states: hospitalization and mortality. paode is an important cause of morbidity and health care expenditures among the elderly. data from the nhds and national vital statistics system were used to assess its impact in the u.s. in 1985 to 1987, an estimated 229 thousand men and 184 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of chronic paode. discharge rates were much higher in men and increased sharply with age. lower extremity arteriography was performed during 88 thousand hospitalizations and aorta-iliac-femoral bypass procedures were done during 31 thousand hospitalizations per year. numbers of procedures increased markedly since 1979. an estimated 60 thousand men and 50 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of acute paode. embolectomy or thrombectomy of lower limb arteries was listed for 28 thousand discharges per year. few deaths were attributed to paode. although these data are limited by likely incomplete reporting and by the nonspecificity of diagnostic codes, they provide an indication of the magnitude of the problem. an aging population and advances in surgical techniques suggest continued monitoring using multiple data sources. vigorous primary prevention programs are needed to lessen the impact of all atherosclerotic diseases.
mechanical circulatory support as a bridge to transplantation: current status of total artificial heart in 1989 and determinants of survival. since april 1986, 40 total artificial hearts (tah) were implanted as a bridge to transplantation in our institution. in an attempt to identify factors affecting survival of tah recipients we reviewed our experience over 1000 days of mechanical support. there was no postoperative bleeding requiring surgery nor were there any clinical episodes of thromboembolic complications. over a total functioning period greater than 3 years there were no mechanical failures in the driving system but one artificial ventricle had to be replaced because of mechanical dysfunction. infections and multiple organ failure were the primary causes of morbidity and mortality during mechanical support. when the patients who underwent staged transplantation (no. 17) were compared with those who died during mechanical support (no. 23) there were no differences in tah driving mode or hemodynamic variables between the groups. although preoperative pulmonary, hepatic and renal functions were found to be similar between the groups, there were significant differences in the early evolution (3 days) of hepatic and renal functions following tah implant (p less than 0.01). urinary output was found to be the earliest variable discriminating recovery and survival (p less than 0.01). finally, univariate analysis indicated age (less than 40 vs greater than 40 years) and modality of cardiac decompensation (acute vs chronic) as the most important factors affecting survival after tah implantation. since young patients (less than 40 years of age) with acute decompensation were successfully transplanted in 82% of cases while 100% of older patients with chronic decompensation died before or after transplantation, tah should be advised in young patients with acute or chronic heart failure and in selected older candidates with recent, acute cardiac failure.
effect of marked peripheral leukocytosis on the leukocyte count in ascites. patients with high peripheral leukocyte counts are sometimes found to have high leukocyte counts in ascitic fluid in the presence of negative cultures. to determine if peripheral leukocytosis (greater than or equal to 20 x 10(9)/l) by itself can result in high leukocyte or neutrophil counts in ascites, 29 patients were studied. a total of 31 paracenteses were performed in these patients as soon as the high peripheral leukocyte count was determined. culture of ascitic fluid was performed using blood-culture bottles. the mean peripheral leukocyte count was 29.3 +/- 9.3 x 10(9)/l, with a mean neutrophil count of 19.9 +/- 6.5 x 10(9)/l. the mean ascitic fluid neutrophil count was 0.064 +/- 0.054 x 10(9)/l (range, 0.007 to 0.197 x 10(9)/l). no significant correlation was found between peripheral neutrophil (or leukocyte) count and neutrophil (or leukocyte) count in ascitic fluid. marked peripheral leukocytosis (or neutrophilia) does not seem to have an effect on the leukocyte or neutrophil count in ascitic fluid.
streptokinase treatment for femoral artery thrombosis after arterial cardiac catheterisation in infants and children. data on 205 children who underwent retrograde arterial catheterisation were studied to assess the frequency of femoral artery thrombosis and the safety and efficacy of systemic streptokinase treatment for this complication. in 29 (14%) a transarterial balloon dilatation was performed. in 15 (7.3%) patients impaired arterial perfusion due to vascular spasm with or without thrombus formation was seen in the cannulated leg after catheterisation. despite heparinisation, signs of impaired arterial circulation persisted in nine patients (4.4% of the total). in these patients femoral artery thrombosis was strongly suspected. six (53%) of these had undergone a balloon dilatation. therefore in this study the risk of femoral artery thrombosis developing was 12 times greater after transarterial balloon dilatation than after arterial catheterisation without dilatation (20.6% v 1.7%). systemic infusion of streptokinase was started in all patients with femoral artery thrombosis. arterial perfusion became normal in all patients, though in one this was delayed. haematological monitoring showed lengthening of the thrombin time and a decrease of the fibrinogen concentration during streptokinase treatment. there were no serious complications. systemic infusion of streptokinase is a safe and useful treatment in children with persistent femoral artery thrombosis after arterial cardiac catheterisation.
atheroemboli to the lower urinary tract: a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease--a case report. atheroemboli to the lower genitourinary tract may serve as a marker for disseminated atheroembolic disease, a highly lethal condition. a case presentation and review of our institional experience is presented.
long-term evaluation of hemiparkinsonian monkeys after adrenal autografting or cavitation alone. autografts of adrenal medulla were implanted into preformed cavities in the caudate nuclei of four rhesus monkeys with hemiparkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (mptp). five other hemiparkinsonian monkeys underwent caudate cavitation, but received no tissue implant. all of the animals had marked bradykinesia of the affected arm and stable apomorphine-induced turning before cavitation or implantation. moderate behavioral recovery was seen in all five monkeys with cavitation and two of the three monkey with long-term adrenal autografts (the fourth adrenal recipient was sacrificed 10 days after grafting). the improvement occurred months after the procedure and was not as early or as complete as that seen after fetal dopaminergic grafts. surviving adrenal tissue was found only in the animal that showed no behavioral recovery. the other two adrenal autograft recipients (with no surviving adrenal medulla) and all of the animals with cavitation had ingrowth of dopaminergic fibers from the area olfactoria and nucleus accumbens into the caudate, oriented toward the cavity. these findings show that the mechanism of improvement after adrenal medullary implants for parkinsonism is not dopamine secretion by chromaffin cells, but may be related to the sprouted host fibers. the results also indicate that the limited recovery after adrenal implants in parkinsonian patients may be a result of the cavitation, and not necessarily the result of tissue implantation.
skeletal muscle metabolism in heart failure: a 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy study of leg muscle. 1. the gastrocnemius muscle of seven patients with mild to moderate chronic heart failure and of five healthy control subjects was studied using 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. spectra were collected at rest and during an incremental, symptom-limited, exercise protocol. blood flow was measured in the same study during brief interruptions to exercise. 2. the phosphocreatine/(phosphocreatine plus inorganic phosphate) ratio was lower in patients with heart failure than in control subjects at an exercise rate of 1.5 w, although intracellular ph and blood flow were similar. 3. the cytosolic free adenosine 5'-diphosphate concentration was markedly increased in patients with heart failure exercising at 1.5 w compared with control subjects exercising at the same workload. 4. although the maximum workload achieved by patients with heart failure was less than half of that reached by control subjects, the ph and the phosphocreatine/(phosphocreatine plus inorganic phosphate) ratio were lower in patients with heart failure at maximal load. blood flow was less at maximal exercise in patients with heart failure than in control subjects in keeping with the reduced work load. 5. the phosphocreatine depletion induced in the gastrocnemius muscle by exercise was more severe than previously described in the forearm of patients with heart failure. 6. metabolic abnormalities in skeletal muscle may contribute to exercise intolerance in heart failure, particularly during submaximal exercise.
anatomical, physiological, and theoretical basis for the antiepileptic effect of vagus nerve stimulation. the vagus is a mixed nerve carrying somatic and visceral afferents and efferents. the majority of vagal nerve fibers are visceral afferents and have a wide distribution throughout the central nervous system (cns) either monosynaptically or via the nucleus of the solitary tract. besides activation of well-defined reflexes, vagal stimulation produces evoked potentials recorded from the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, the thalamus, and the cerebellum. activation of vagal afferents can depress monosynaptic reflexes, decrease the activity of spinothalamic neurons, and increase pain threshold. depending on the stimulation parameters, vagal afferent stimulation in experimental animals can produce electroencephalographic (eeg) synchronization or desynchronization and has been shown to affect sleep states. the desychronization of the eeg appears to depend on activation of afferent fibers that have conduction velocities of less than or equal to 15 m/s. vagal afferent stimulation can also influence the activity of interictal cortical spikes produced by topical strychnine application, and either attenuate or stop seizures produced by pentylenetetrazol, 3-mercaptoproprionic acid, maximal electroshock, and topical alumina gel. the mechanisms for the antiepileptic effects of vagal stimulation are not fully understood but probably relate to effects on the reticular activating system. the vagus provides an easily accessible, peripheral route to modulate cns function.
measuring crackles. crackles heard on auscultation can be represented graphically as a time-amplitude plot of the associated waveform. to assess the relative merits of several measures which might be considered for machine implementation in diagnostic instruments, we compared the reproducibility of those based on the initial voltage deflection which begins a crackle with those based on the largest deflection. the latter group showed less interobserver and less intraobserver variability when the same crackles were measured twice by each of two observers. crackles from a teaching tape, categorized as fine and coarse, were used in this study. the ability of the various measures tested to distinguish between fine and coarse crackles on an individual basis was assessed and found to favor the measures based on the largest deflection. they showed an average of 9.96 percent incorrectly classified crackles, as opposed to 19.53 percent for the two measures based on the initial deflection.
microstaging of squamous cell carcinomas. the clinical classification of squamous cell carcinoma, which was established primarily by the international union against cancer (uicc), does not permit optimal estimation of expected metastasis. the authors' results indicate that metastasis can be more accurately estimated on the basis of invasion depth, histopathologic grading, and especially tumor thickness. one essential advantage of these criteria is that they can be established by a histopathologist. it is interesting to note that in the authors' collective no carcinoma less than 2 mm thick metastasized, that is, a relatively high percentage of carcinomas (48%) can be graded as no-risk carcinomas. the risk of metastasis for undifferentiated carcinomas greater than 6 mm thick that have infiltrated the musculature, the perichondrium, or the periosteum, however, is quite high. tumors between 2 and 6 mm thick with moderate differentiation and a depth of invasion that does not extend beyond the subcutis can be classified as low-risk carcinomas.
cardiorespiratory effects of endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy. endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (evs) is an effective means of controlling variceal hemorrhage, which develops as a consequence of portal hypertension. while esophageal perforation, ulceration, strictures, and mediastinitis are potential complications associated with this procedure, it is not clear whether isolated pleuropulmonary events such as pleuritis, pneumonitis, and adult respiratory distress syndrome are causally related to the evs. endoscopy and sedation with the attendant risk of aspiration, particularly in the background of hepatic encephalopathy, may account for some of these events. recent controlled studies of respiratory function demonstrate that evs as such results in minor changes in gas exchange, lung volumes, and pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics. most pulmonary complications have been reported with the use of sodium morrhuate sclerosant. comparative studies among different sclerosants are necessary to evaluate relative safety. finally, there have been rare reports of myocardial ischemia and pericarditis reported in association with evs, but these are of a transient nature. chest symptoms, roentgenographic pleuropulmonary changes, pulmonary hemodynamics, and cardiac perturbations are transient and should not preclude offering evs to patients with variceal hemorrhage.
transient ischaemic attacks in young patients: a thromboembolic or migrainous manifestation? a 10 year follow up study of 46 patients. forty six patients aged 18-39 years with transient ischaemic attacks (tia) were studied; two thirds were women. twenty five patients had attacks accompanied by headache, and seven gave a history of common migraine. only four of 27 angiograms were abnormal; no operable carotid lesion was demonstrated. over a mean follow up period of 10 years stroke or myocardial infarction (ami) occurred in all four patients who presented major cerebrovascular risk factors, but in only two of the remaining 42 patients. thus irrespective of age thromboembolic tia is a harbinger of stroke or ami. however, most tias under the age of 40 years are caused by a non-embolic benign vascular disorder. the clinical characteristics, long-term prognosis, and possible pathogenesis, for such attacks are often indistinguishable from those of classical migraine. in the absence of cardiovascular risk factors, arteriography does not provide much diagnostic and prognostic information.
cd8+ t cell homing to the pancreas in the nonobese diabetic mouse is cd4+ t cell-dependent. the adoptive transfer of type i diabetes in nonobese diabetic mice requires the contribution of both cd4+ and cd8+ t cells. to further elucidate the cellular pathway(s) of beta-cell destruction and the responsibility of each subset, high doses of committed t cells from diabetic mice purified to single subsets, were injected into syngeneic nonobese diabetic neonates. the recipients of single or mixed subsets were followed for clinical manifestations of diabetes and examined at 30 days of age for in situ lesions. none of the animals injected with either cd4+ or cd8+ t cells became overtly diabetic during the 30 days of observation whereas 8 of 23 mice inoculated with a mixture of the two subsets developed glycosuria and hyperglycemia. however, insulitis was found in 6 of the 13 mice injected with cd4+ t cells whereas only 1 of the 9 mice injected with cd8+ t cells showed marginal infiltration of the pancreas. the lesions initiated by cd4+ t cells alone were considerably less severe than those induced by the mixture of both subsets, corroborating the fact that overt disease did not occur in the former group. together, these results suggest a distinct function for each diabetogenic t cell subset. cd4+ t cells, which have the capacity to home to the pancreas, promote in turn the influx of cd8+ effector t cells that do not by themselves accumulate in this organ. these results illustrate a novel form of t-t cell interactions leading to organ specific autoimmune lesions.
expression of c-erbb-2 gene product in urinary bladder cancer. expression of the c-erbb-2 gene product and the epidermal growth factor receptor (egf-r) was investigated in 54 cases of human bladder cancer immunohistologically and by western blot analysis. for detection of the c-erbb-2 product, two specific antibodies, a rabbit polyclonal antibody directed to the intracellular domain and a murine monoclonal antibody recognizing an epitope in the extracellular domain, were used. seventeen cases of bladder cancer were stained by the anti-c-erbb-2 polyclonal antibody, while 20 cases were stained by the monoclonal antibody, with good correlation on both stainings (p less than 0.01). there were four c-erbb-2 positive cases in 26 g1 tumors, four in 15 g2 tumors, and nine in 13 g3 tumors. there were also eight erbb-2 positive cases in nine muscle-invasive tumors, nine of 45 superficial tumors, four of five with lymph node metastasis, and seven of 14 without metastasis, as revealed by staining with the polyclonal antibody. thus, the c-erbb-2 gene product was more frequently expressed in high grade tumors (p less than 0.01), in high stage tumors (p less than 0.01), and nodal metastatic tumors (n.s. by chi-square test). twenty-two of the 54 tumors were stained by an anti-egf-r monoclonal antibody, 528 igg. the expression of egf-r was independent of histological grading, tumor stage, and nodal status, and no correlation was observed between expression of the c-erbb-2 product and egf-r. the c-erbb-2 product may be applicable as a tumor marker for evaluation of malignant potential, invasiveness, and probably metastatic potential of human bladder cancer.
mononuclear phagocytes: a major population of effector cells responsible for rejection of allografted tumor cells in mice. to understand the in situ mechanism of immunological response of recipient animals to allografted tumor cells, the types of cells that infiltrated into the rejection site were examined. when meth a cells (h-2d) were given i.p. to an allogeneic [c57bl/6 (h-2b)] strain of mouse, the tumor cells ceased to grow on the 6th day, accompanied by an i.p. infiltration of leukocytes. the tumor cells were totally eliminated from the peritoneal cavity around the 12th day. the highest cytotoxic activity against meth a cells was obtained with the peritoneal exudate cells harvested on day 8. on this day, the exudate cells consisted of three populations when examined by flow cytometry, and each was isolated by sorting. each of them appeared to be homogeneous, and they were morphologically identified as lymphocytes; granulocytes; and medium-sized, mononuclear, less-granular cells. the cytotoxic activity was confined exclusively to the last population. the effector cells (h-2b) were cytotoxic against not only meth a cells (h-2d) but also concanavalin a-stimulated allogeneic spleen cells [c3h/he (h-2k), cba/n (h-2k), a/j (h-2a), balb/c (h-2d), and dba/2 (h-2d) strains of mouse]. the effector cells were totally inert against concanavalin a-activated syngeneic spleen cells [c57bl/6 (h-2b) and c57bl/10 (h-2b) strains of mouse]. the effector cells were phenotypically (thy-1.2- cd3- lyt-1- lyt-2- l3t4- immunoglobulin- asialo gm1-), morphologically, and functionally distinct from cytotoxic t cells, natural killer cells, and lymphokine-activated killer cells but were adherent mononuclear phagocytes.
survey of the use of thrombolysis for acute limb ischaemia in the uk and ireland. a total of 156 vascular surgeons from the uk and ireland responded to a postal questionnaire on the use of thrombolysis in acute limb ischaemia. almost half had used thrombolysis in the previous 12 months. low dose intra-arterial streptokinase (89 per cent) was the regimen most frequently used, but 33 per cent had used intravenous streptokinase. detailed results for 103 patients (limb salvage rate 60 per cent, amputation rate 35 per cent, mortality rate 5 per cent) were similar to those of previously published reports. complications in most series were infrequent, but in the entire survey there were six bleeding-related deaths and one death from anaphylaxis. a total of 67 per cent of surgeons with working experience indicated that selected patients with acute arterial thromboses were most suitable for thrombolysis, particularly if there was no neurological deficit and no run-off for surgical bypass. distal or late emboli and graft occlusions were regarded as appropriate by some surgeons. this study demonstrated that many vascular surgeons currently use thrombolysis, although sparingly and in selected cases. patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by experienced vascular surgeons who are aware of the new therapeutic alternatives, an ideal supported by almost three-quarters of respondents to this survey.
malignant glandular triton tumor. a case of left brachial plexus-related malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor showing neoplastic, glandular, and rhabdomyoblastic elements in a 39-year-old chinese man is reported. the authors suggested that this tumor be termed a malignant glandular triton tumor in view of the presence of the adenocarcinomatous component. the patient had extensive local recurrence comprising mainly the schwann spindle cells within a year after complete piecemeal removal and died 15 months later after the initial presentation. the natural behavior of this tumor, as in other reported cases of malignant triton tumor, is extremely aggressive, unlike malignant schwannoma or glandular malignant schwannoma. the histogenesis of this tumor is likely to be from primitive neural crest cells, schwann's cell precursors, or metaplastic malignant schwann's cells.
rejection of multivisceral allografts in rats: a sequential analysis with comparison to isolated orthotopic small-bowel and liver grafts. multivisceral isografts and allografts were transplanted to lewis rats, and the histopathologic changes were studied in the liver, intestine, and other constituent organs. rats receiving isografts had indefinite survival with maintenance of weight. with multivisceral allografts (from brown-norway donors), the intestinal component was rejected more severely than the companion liver and with about the same severity as when intestinal transplantation was performed alone. intestinal rejection in either circumstance was a lethal event, causing death in 10 to 12 days. the earliest (by day 4) and most intense cellular rejection was in the peyer's patches and mesenteric lymph nodes. this was associated with or followed by cryptitis, epithelial cell necrosis, focal abscess formation, mural necrosis, and eventual perforation. liver allografts transplanted alone or as part of multivisceral grafts also had histopathologic evidence of rejection, but this was self-limiting and spontaneously reversible when the liver was transplanted alone. thus the achille's heel of multivisceral grafts is the intestinal component that is not protected by the presence of the liver in the organ complex. better immunosuppression should permit successful experimental and clinical transplantation of such grafts.
efficacy of nimodipine in cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage. our studies showed that in an appropriate dose, nimodipine increased local cerebral blood flow with no corresponding increase in local metabolism. nimodipine treatment given before experimental ischemic insult, resulting from either vascular occlusion or intracranial hemorrhage or after subarachnoid hemorrhage, maintained or improved blood flow and minimized the severity of subsequent brain damage. lack of benefit from nimodipine treatment after the insult may occur because the inexorable progression of events leading to ischemic neuronal damage, once initiated, cannot be arrested. on the other hand, pharmacokinetic factors may be important, and post-treatment efficacy may depend on administration protocols that achieve an adequate concentration in ischemic tissue sufficiently soon after an insult. our findings are compatible with the benefit of nimodipine being due to an improvement in blood flow that reduces the severity of ischemia. however, they do not exclude the possibility that treatment may minimize the accumulation of calcium in damaged cells as a result of "cytoprotective" effects.
effect of nontransmural necrosis on epicardial potential fields. correlation with fiber direction. the effect of nontransmural necrosis on epicardial potential distributions was studied in 13 dogs. in previous studies, left ventricular epicardial pacing generated epicardial potential maps at qrs onset with a negative central area and two positive areas that faced the portions of the wavefront propagating along fibers. subsequently, the positive areas expanded in a counterclockwise direction by 90 degrees to 120 degrees. in those studies, the rotatory expansion of the positive areas was tentatively attributed to the spread of excitation through deep myocardial layers, where fiber direction rotated counterclockwise from epicardium to endocardium. to test this hypothesis, we tried to interrupt the counterclockwise expansion of the positive area by creating localized, nontransmural necrosis at various depths in the left ventricular wall by injection of formalin or application of laser energy. epicardial potential maps were obtained from a grid of 12 x 15 electrodes on a 44 x 56-mm area. epicardial pacing from selected sites generated epicardial maps in which some positive areas were missing compared with controls. the direction of the straight line joining the pacing site to the site of missing positivity correlated well with the average fiber direction in the necrotic mass (r = 0.82, p less than 0.01). angle between epicardial fiber direction and the straight line described above correlated well with the average depth of the necrosis, expressed as percent of the wall thickness (r = 0.95, p less than 0.01). these data support the hypothesis that the counterclockwise expansion of the epicardial positivity occurring after epicardial pacing results from excitation spreading along deep fibers.
peripheral ameloblastoma with clear cell differentiation. this report details a case of mandibular peripheral ameloblastoma having a clear cell component. the latter consisted of ovoid cells with vacuolated or clear cytoplasm and vesicular or pyknotic nuclei that may be disposed as discrete clusters or show direct transition from typical acanthomatous areas. comparison of this lesion with other odontogenic and nonodontogenic tumors that contain clear cells is discussed in the context of the differential diagnosis.
posttraumatic torticollis. we report six cases of torticollis precipitated by neck trauma. the dystonia began 1 to 4 days after the trauma and differed clinically from idiopathic torticollis by marked limitation of range of motion, lack of improvement after sleep ("honeymoon period"), and absence of geste antagonistique. worsening with action was not present; nor was there improvement with support as seen with idiopathic torticollis. onset of pain immediately after the trauma and marked spasms of the paracervical muscles were other predominant features. anticholinergic therapy was without benefit; however, some improvement occurred with botulinum toxin injection. it is concluded that torticollis can be caused by peripheral trauma and that it has unique clinical characteristics.
bone cancer incidence rates in new york state: time trends and fluoridated drinking water. background: recent animal studies of the potential carcinogenicity of fluoride prompted an examination of bone cancer incidence rates. methods: trends in the incidence of primary bone cancers, including the incidence of osteosarcomas were examined among residents of new york state, exclusive of new york city. average annual osteosarcoma incidence rates in fluoridated and non-fluoridated areas were also compared. results: among persons less than 30 years of age at diagnosis, bone cancer incidence among males demonstrated a significant increase since 1955, while incidence among females has remained unchanged. a significant decrease in bone cancer incidence rates since 1955 was observed among both males and females age 30 years and over at time of diagnosis. osteosarcoma incidence rates have remained essentially unchanged since 1970, among both younger and older males and females. the average annual age adjusted incidence of osteosarcomas (1976-1987) in areas served by fluoridated water supplies was not found to differ from osteosarcoma incidence rates in non-fluoridated areas. conclusions: these data do not support an association between fluoride in drinking water and the occurrence of cancer of the bone.
hepatic lesions in the rabbit induced by acoustic cavitation. tissue damage during shock-wave lithotripsy is presumably secondary to cavitation phenomena involving the collapsus of gas bubbles in a fluid. to enhance shock-wave-related hepatic lesions, intravascular gas microbubbles were administered. three groups of eight rabbits each received either 500 shock waves focused on the right hepatic lobe (group 1), gas microbubbles as a mixture of 50 cm3 of air with 50 cm3 of gelatin infused through an arterial catheter (group 2), or 500 shock waves and gas microbubbles simultaneously (group 3). in group 1, two animals had two to three subcapsular hepatic hematomas (diameter, less than 5 mm) and five had one to five intraparenchymal hematomas (less than 1 mm). in group 2, a moderate liver congestion was observed in three animals. in group 3, all animals had numerous subcapsular and intraperenchymal hematomas (2-30 mm). the hematomas were centered around the portal spaces, associated with lacunae (0.5-5 mm in diameter). hematomas were also present on the anterior wall of intraabdominal organs. it was concluded that intravascular infusion of gas microbubbles into the path of a shock-wave generator dramatically enhances tissue damage. this technique, potentially useful in the treatment of hepatic tumors, needs refinement to confine lesions in a more uniform pattern to the targeted parenchyma.
hyperadrenergic orthostatic intolerance as a result of postpartum blood loss. this article describes a young women in whom orthostatic intolerance developed as a result of protracted postpartum vaginal bleeding. the cardiovascular abnormalities were unresponsive to usual treatment measures, and she required combination therapy directed at increasing plasma volume and decreasing sympathetic nervous system activity. after resolution of her symptoms, the patient required no long-term therapy. chronic blood loss has not been reported as a cause of this syndrome.
acute coronary artery occlusion during and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. frequency, prediction, clinical course, management, and follow-up [published erratum appears in circulation 1991 jul;84(1):446] background. acute coronary artery occlusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) continues to remain a serious complication despite significant improvement in operator performance and technological advancements. this retrospective study was performed to ascertain the frequency, predictive variables, management, and outcome of acute coronary artery occlusion. methods and results. the study was based on data from 1,423 consecutive patients who underwent an elective coronary angioplasty between january 1986 and december 1988. acute coronary artery occlusion occurred in 104 patients (7.3%). acute occlusion developed during the dilatation procedure in 80 patients (5.6%) and within 24 hours after the procedure in 24 patients (1.7%). four clinical and 14 angiographic variables predictive for acute coronary artery occlusion were analyzed in these 104 patients with a complicated procedure and were compared with those in 104 representative patients with successful attempts. multivariate analysis found three independent predictive variables: unstable angina, multivessel disease, and complex lesions. the overall clinical outcome after management of acute coronary artery occlusion including immediate repeat dilatation (95 patients), use of intracoronary streptokinase (34 patients), or autoperfusion catheter (12 patients) was successful (reduction of lumen diameter to less than 50%, no death, no myocardial infarction [mi], and no emergency surgery) in 42 patients (40%), was a failure without major complication in four patients (4%), and was a failure with major complication (death, mi, and emergency surgery) in 58 patients (56%). the overall mortality rate was 6% (six patients), the overall mi rate was 36% (37 patients), and emergency bypass surgery was required in 30% of patients (31 patients). at 6 months' follow-up of 42 patients with successful management, recurrent angina pectoris due to restenosis occurred in 10 patients (24%), and a late mi occurred in one patient (3%). at 6 months' follow-up of 56 survivors with unsuccessful management (development of mi or need for emergency bypass surgery), recurrent angina occurred in nine patients (16%), and cardiac death in two patients (4%). however, the majority of patients in both groups were either symptom free or had mild angina pectoris. conclusion. acute coronary artery occlusion during ptca is often unpredictable, but its frequency is higher in patients with unstable angina, multivessel disease, and complex lesions. despite immediate redilatation, use of intracoronary streptokinase, and emergency bypass surgery, ptca is associated with a high mortality and morbidity.
a case of classical mycosis fungoides associated with human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i. a 72-year-old male patient from north-eastern iran developed the typical clinical and histopathological features of mycosis fungoides with lymphadenopathy, but without any other systemic involvement. human t-cell lymphotropic virus (htlv-i) antibodies were detected in the patient's serum by two different elisas and by western blot using purified viral particles from mt-2 culture supernatants. cultured peripheral blood lymphocytes were positive for labelling with anti-htlv-i serum. southern blot hybridization of dna extracted from a skin tumour and from an involved lymph node revealed integrated proviral dna with identical restriction patterns. this case supports a relationship between mycosis fungoides and htlv-i and may indicate a new region of endemic htlv-i infection.
analysis of antigen expression at multiple tumor sites in epithelial ovarian cancer. the question of whether the antigenic phenotype of human epithelial ovarian cancer varies in a given patient between the primary tumor and metastatic sites or among metastatic sites themselves is an important issue in planning potential therapeutic strategies for ovarian cancer. we have obtained tumor specimens from at least two separate sites during operations on 12 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, and we have typed these specimens with a group of 18 monoclonal antibodies that react with cell-surface glycoprotein and carbohydrate antigens, including blood group antigens. antibodies with relative specificity for malignant cells as well as those that detect more widely distributed epithelial antigens were used. a total of 31 specimens from 12 patients with advanced adenocarcinoma (8 serous, 3 undifferentiated, 1 endometrioid) of the ovary were studied, including fresh ascites cells in two patients. frozen sections of tumor specimens were stained with the antibodies by the indirect immunoperoxidase technique and graded semiquantitatively. little difference was seen in antigenic expression of tumors that were obtained from various sites in the same patient for either the epithelial cell markers or blood group markers. intratumoral antigenic heterogeneity was seen, but this was generally quite consistent within a given patient's specimens. as anticipated, variations in antigen expression were seen among specimens from different patients. the antigenic phenotype of the tumor specimens in a given patient, as determined immunohistochemically by our group of antibodies, showed only minor variation among primary and metastatic sites.
decrease in mean platelet survival time in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (apsgn). in an attempt to study further the possible participation of platelets in the pathogenesis of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (apsgn), we studied the platelet survival time, as an index of platelet activation, in 22 patients with apsgn. mean platelet survival time was computed from the disappearance of radioactivity from blood, sampled serially after injection of autologous 51cr-labelled platelets. c1q solid phase elisa and conglutinin (k) solid phase elisa were used to measure the serum levels of immune complexes. the platelet survival time in apsgn patients was 113 +/- 10 h vs 197 +/- 10 h in the control group (p less than 0.001); 68% of the patients had a shortened platelet survival, lower than 95% confidence limit. there was a significant increase in the platelet survival in the six patients that were studied after recovery from acute nephritic syndrome. there was no significant association between the mean platelet times survival and cics (circulating immune complexes). similarly, no significant correlation was found between the mean platelet lifespan and the severity of the glomerular disease, as assessed by the serum creatinine level and the proteinuria. these results support evidence of platelet activation and consumption in apsgn and we suggest that this activation occurs in the glomeruli capillary wall, due to platelet-vascular wall interaction.
brain water content, brain blood volume, blood chemistry, and pathology in a model of cerebral edema. study objectives: the objective was to correlate regional changes during brain water content with alterations in blood chemistry and cerebral pathology during hypo-osmotic edema. participants: sprague-dawley male adult rats were used in these studies. design: animals were block-randomized to receive either an intraperitoneal distilled water injection equivalent to 5% or 15% of their body weight or no injection (controls). rats were sacrificed 15 or 60 minutes after water injection or at an equivalent time for controls. interventions: no interventions were performed. measurements and main results: water content of cerebral cortical gray and white matter was calculated from measurements of tissue specific gravity. blood plasma osmolality and sodium and potassium concentrations were determined at various times after water injection. an index of blood-brain barrier permeability was obtained by measuring brain red blood cell and plasma volumes. a qualitative assessment of edema was made from light and electron micrographs of the cerebral cortex. we found that water injection produced a dose-dependent decrease in plasma osmolality and sodium concentration within 15 minutes. cortical water content was unchanged after this period. an influx of water into cerebral gray, and, less readily, into cerebral white matter occurred during the next 15 minutes. whole blood specific gravity and brain blood content were unchanged and thus did not confound the measurement of cerebral water content. hematocrit was increased 60 minutes after a 15% water injection. the blood-brain barrier remained intact throughout this period. microscopy revealed astrocytic swelling with slight extracellular fluid accumulation 60 minutes after the water injection. conclusions: homeostatic mechanisms in the cerebral cortex can maintain constant water content for at least 15 minutes during maintained intravascular hypo-osmolality. fluid that subsequently moves into the tissue primarily enters an intracellular compartment. this model will be useful in investigating physiological mechanisms of brain water regulation and the pathogenesis of brain edema, a common clinical entity in emergency conditions.
prostacyclin and prostaglandin e2 mediate reduction of increased mean arterial pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass by aspiration of shed pulmonary venous blood. increased mean arterial pressure during the aortic crossclamp period while on cardiopulmonary bypass was usually treated by us with hypotensive drugs. we noticed, however, that aspirating shed excess pulmonary venous blood from the open pleural cavities causes an immediate reduction in mean arterial pressure, obviating the need for any further pharmaceutical intervention. in this study we investigated the relationship between the reduction in mean arterial pressure and the levels of prostacyclin and prostaglandin e2 in the peripheral and pulmonary venous blood. ten men undergoing coronary bypass operations had 21 episodes of increased mean arterial pressure (106.9 +/- 11.4 mm hg) during aortic crossclamping, which was reduced to 67.4 +/- 11.4 mm hg (p less than 0.001) only by aspirating a mean of 490 ml (range 150 to 1100 ml) of pulmonary venous blood from the pleurae back into the circulation. mean peripheral prostacyclin level, measured as 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha, and prostaglandin e2 level, both measured by radioimmunoassay technique, were significantly lower at peak mean arterial pressure (419 +/- 180 and 59.5 +/- 21.2 pg/ml) than at lowest mean arterial pressure (632 +/- 271 and 96.7 +/- 52.4 pg/ml for 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha and prostaglandin e2, respectively; p less than 0.001). prostaglandin f1 alpha and prostaglandin e2 levels in the aspirated pulmonary venous blood were 2309 +/- 3098 pg/ml and 749 +/- 909 pg/ml, respectively. the hypotensive effect of shed pulmonary venous blood that is aspirated back from the pleurae into the circulation seems to be mediated by the high levels of prostacyclin and prostaglandin e2, both powerful vasodilators.
desmoplastic variant of ameloblastoma: report of a case and review of the literature. a case of desmoplastic variant of ameloblastoma is reported. the lesion, in a 36-year-old japanese woman, was successfully treated by partial maxillectomy. reconstruction was carried out with a block of hydroxyapatite about 7 years and 6 months later. six cases, including our case, reported up to the present are summarized and reviewed.
comparison of coffee intake and coffee-induced symptoms in patients with duodenal ulcer, nonulcer dyspepsia, and normal controls. coffee and decaffeinated coffee stimulate acid secretion. in addition, many patients experience dyspepsia after coffee ingestion. therefore, coffee is often prohibited by physicians in patients with peptic diseases. however, the association between peptic disease and symptoms remains unclear. this study compares coffee intake and the induction of symptoms by coffee in patients with duodenal ulcer disease, nonulcer dyspepsia, and normal controls. we have studied the coffee drinking habits of 58 duodenal ulcer patients, 55 nonulcer dyspepsia patients, and 55 normal controls. the use of coffee on a daily basis was not significantly different between duodenal ulcer patients (64%) and controls (56%), or between nonulcer dyspepsia patients (55%) and controls. there was also no difference between the three groups in the use of decaffeinated coffee, the number of cups per day, the method of preparation, the length of time of coffee use, or any change in coffee intake in the previous year. the intake of tea, caffeinated carbonated beverages, and aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was also similar in the three groups. the duodenal ulcer patients were more likely to be cigarette smokers (45%) than either the controls (16%) or the nonulcer dyspepsia patients (24%). daily alcohol intake was not significantly different in the three groups. the prevalence of coffee induction of dyspeptic symptoms was similar in duodenal ulcer patients (29%) and controls (22%), but was much more common in nonulcer dyspepsia patients (53%) than in controls (22%), p = 0.0036. in conclusion, there was no difference in coffee intake between patients with duodenal ulcer, nonulcer dyspepsia, or normal controls. however, patients with nonulcer dyspepsia, but not duodenal ulcer, were more likely to experience dyspeptic symptoms after coffee ingestion.
an evaluation of the distinction of ectopic and pituitary acth dependent cushing's syndrome by clinical features, biochemical tests and radiological findings. the efficiency of various laboratory and radiological investigations in the differentiation of ectopic from pituitary dependent cushing's syndrome was studied, based on findings in 23 patients with verified cushing's disease and seven patients with the ectopic acth syndrome. clinical features strongly favouring the ectopic type were male sex and history for less than 18 months. basal biochemical features strongly indicating the ectopic syndrome included plasma k+ less than 3.0 mmol/l and hco3 greater than 30 mmol/l; serum cortisol at 9 a.m. or midnight of greater than 800 nmol/l; urine free cortisol greater than 1300 nmol/24 hours; plasma acth greater than 100 ng/l. in the high-dose dexamethasone suppression test, suppression by less than 50 per cent of 9 a.m. serum cortisol, urine free cortisol or 17-oxogenic steroids was usually indicative of an ectopic source of acth. a mean suppressed value of greater than 450 nmol/l for the 9 a.m. and midnight cortisol combined occurred in all of those with the ectopic syndrome, but in none of the 23 patients with cushing's disease. for urine free cortisol, a mean suppressed value of less than 1000 nmol/24 hours was found in all patients with cushing's disease, but in none of those in the ectopic group. in the metyrapone test, there was an increase of less than or equal to 3-fold in 11-deoxycortisol at 24 hours in patients with ectopic acth; the increase was greater than 3-fold in all but one of the patients with cushing's disease. failure to respond to either dexamethasone or metyrapone was found in only one of the patients with cushing's disease (patient 16); in the ectopic group, all patients except patient d failed to respond to either test. it is concluded that patients presenting with clinically obvious cushing's syndrome along with measurable plasma acth can be reliably divided by conventional tests into those that are driven from the pituitary and those driven by ectopic acth.
comparison of standard one-minute treadmill exercise and strandness test (absolute walking distance) in relation to site of lesion, walking distance, and diastolic blood flow velocity (doppler curves). in 215 outpatients suffering from occlusive arterial disease of the lower limbs the authors compared the decrease in the ratio of ankle systolic pressure to brachial systolic pressure according to whether the treadmill exercise was limited to one minute or extended until pain forced the patient to stop. after a one-minute walk the pressure index always decreased significantly, especially when walking was restricted. the decrease in the pressure index was generally greater when the exercise was continued until the absolute walking distance, and the recovery time was usually twice as long. the fall in the pressure index was significantly greater for patients with single and multiple iliac stenoses than for those with stenoses at lower levels. in patients having a diastolic blood flow velocity on doppler curves at rest, not modified by walking, a maximum drop in peripheral pressure was recorded after walking for one minute. in this instance there was no intensification of the decrease in peripheral pressure, unlike in patients without a diastolic blood flow velocity at rest. this one-minute test is not a maximal hemodynamic response, but it is sufficient for the appreciation of ischemia during exercise, according to the different parameters measured.
control of interleukin-1 beta expression by protein kinase c and cyclic adenosine monophosphate in myeloid leukemia cells. we have examined the signal transduction pathways leading to the expression of the interleukin-1 beta (il-1 beta) gene in human myeloid leukemia cells lines. two cell lines representing different stages of differentiation were used (hl-60, promyelocytic, and thp-1, mature monocytic). in accordance with previous studies, it was observed that a protein kinase c (pkc) activator, phorbol myristate acetate (pma), was a sufficient stimulus for induction of the il-1 beta messenger rna (mrna) expression and il-1 beta protein production in both of these cell lines. a structural analog of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (dbcamp) or agents elevating the endogenous camp levels (prostaglandin e2, forskolin) were not alone able to induce il-1 beta expression, but they strongly enhanced the pma-induced il-1 beta production and il-1 beta mrna accumulation. nuclear run off analysis showed that this elevation in il-1 beta mrna levels was due to an increased rate of transcription. if dbcamp was added 6 hours before pma to the cultures, no enhancement in the il-1 beta production was seen, implying that for this enhancing effect both of these signals must be present simultaneously. pkc inhibitor, h7, also blocked effectively the pma plus dbcamp induced il-1 beta production, while the protein kinase a (pka) inhibitor, ha1004, had no effect, suggesting that pka activation is not involved in the mechanism of action of camp in this case. collectively, the present findings show that camp-dependent signals can have a positive regulatory effect on the pkc-dependent activation of the il-1 beta gene in cells derived from different stages of myeloid differentiation.
torulopsis glabrata vaginitis: clinical aspects and susceptibility to antifungal agents. torulopsis glabrata is second only to candida albicans in frequency of isolation from the vagina in both asymptomatic women and patients with yeast vaginitis. we retrospectively studied 33 patients from whom vaginal isolates of t glabrata were obtained. torulopsis glabrata caused symptomatic vaginitis in 42% of the patients but was unassociated with symptoms in 30%; in 27% of patients, its importance was uncertain because of concomitant pathology. antifungal susceptibility testing was performed on 39 t glabrata strains isolated from 39 patients. the minimal inhibitory concentrations (mics) of the majority of t glabrata isolates fell within the sensitive range of the antimycotic drugs tested; however, no correlation was found between in vitro antifungal mics and the response to azole drug therapy. clinical success was achieved in 67% of the patients although mycologic cure occurred in only 33%. a small number of patients developed recurrent and often chronic torulopsis vaginitis unresponsive to conventional therapy. limited experience suggests that vaginal boric acid therapy may be of value in these recalcitrant cases.
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with emphasis on intensive induction chemotherapy. a report from the study group of japan. one hundred nine newly treated patients with advanced neuroblastoma were entered in this study between january 1985 and may 1989. the eligible patients included infants younger than 12 months of age with stage iva disease (bone cortex, distant lymph node, and/or remote organ metastases) and patients aged 12 months or older with stage iii or iv disease (iva plus ivb with tumor crossing the mid-line and with metastases confined to bone marrow, liver, and skin). the patients first received six cyclic course of intensive chemotherapy (regimen a1), consisting of cyclophosphamide (1200 mg/m2), vincristine (1.5 mg/m2), tetrahydropyranyl adriamycin (pyrarubicin; 40 mg/m2), and cisplatin (90 mg/m2). original tumors and the regional lymph node metastases were removed some time during these first six cycles of chemotherapy. the patients were further divided into three groups. patients in course 1 received alternating treatment by regimen b (cyclophosphamide and acnu) and intensified regimen a1, and those in course 2 were treated with alternating administration of regimen c (cyclophosphamide and dtic) and intensified a1. patients in course 3 were treated with bone marrow transplantation (bmt) preceded by high-dose preconditioning chemotherapy. survival rates were 77% in stage iii and 54% in stage iv at 2 years, and 70% in stage iii and 45% in stage iv at 3 years. the major toxicities encountered were bone marrow suppression with leukocyte counts down to 100/mm3, mild cystitis, and hearing impairment. the 2-year survival rate was 78% in 21 patients who underwent bmt when complete remission was achieved. we concluded that our intensive induction chemotherapy is of significant value in increasing the rate of complete response, and in widening the indications for and achieving improved results of treatment with bmt.
radiation-induced cranial nerve palsy: hypoglossal nerve and vocal cord palsies. cranial nerve palsies are an unexpected complication of radiotherapy for head and neck tumours. we present a case of this radiation-induced cranial palsy. an 18-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma developed a right hypoglossal nerve palsy 42 months after cancericidal doses of radiotherapy. in addition, she developed a bilateral vocal cord palsy 62 months after therapy. follow-up over four years has demonstrated no evidence of tumour recurrence and no sign of neurological improvement.
choroid plexus tumors in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome. choroid plexus neoplasms are rare epithelial tumors of the central nervous system. a carcinoma of the choroid plexus occurred in a child from a family with the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome (li-fraumeni or sbla syndrome), an inherited condition characterized by the development of diverse neoplasms (sarcoma, breast cancer, brain tumors, leukemia, adrenal cortical carcinoma, and others). choroid plexus carcinomas were identified in two kindreds previously reported with the syndrome. the literature contains reports of choroid plexus neoplasms occurring in families and in individuals with multiple primary tumors. choroid plexus neoplasm may be a manifestation of the inherited proclivity to tumor development in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome.
the baltimore experience with laparoscopic management of acute cholecystitis. laparoscopic cholecystectomy has rapidly emerged as a popular alternative to traditional laparotomy and cholecystectomy. acute cholecystitis has been considered to be a relative or absolute contraindication to laparoscopic surgery. after gaining extensive experience in laparoscopic biliary tract surgery, this procedure was attempted in 15 patients with acute cholecystitis. all patients were operated on within 72 hours of admission. in five patients, the laparoscopic procedure was converted to an open laparotomy; in one patient, a localized abscess was found, and in the other four patients, extensive inflammation and edema precluded a safe dissection of the vascular and ductal structures. laparoscopic cholangiography was performed in 14 patients and proved valuable in demonstrating the ductal anatomy. patients were discharged an average of 2.7 days after the laparoscopic procedure. laparoscopic cholecystectomy may be safely performed by experienced surgeons in patients with acute cholecystitis. to ensure a low complication rate, a low threshold for converting the procedure to an open laparotomy must be maintained if the ductal and vascular anatomy cannot be safely demonstrated.
senile cardiac amyloidosis associated with homozygosity for a transthyretin variant (ile-122). senile cardiac amyloidosis, also known as senile systemic amyloidosis, is a sporadic disease of late onset but with increasing incidence with age. recently it has been shown in one case that amyloid deposits contained a transthyretin variant with an isoleucine for valine substitution at position 122. a second case with the transthyretin isoleucine 122 variant is reported here. this individual, who died with restrictive cardiomyopathy, was found to be homozygous for this transthyretin variant and his son heterozygous for the variant. a brother of the propositus was also homozygous for the variant but died of a cerebral vascular accident without being evaluated for amyloidosis. these studies show genetic transmission of the isoleucine-122 transthyretin variant associated with this form of cardiac amyloidosis.
gastrointestinal intraluminal ph in normal subjects and those with colorectal adenoma or carcinoma. recent evidence suggests that the production of colorectal carcinogens is facilitated when the ph of the colonic contents is alkaline. it follows that the colonic intraluminal ph of patients with colorectal neoplasms should be higher than in normal subjects. gastrointestinal ph has been measured in 30 patients with colorectal cancer and 37 patients with benign colorectal adenomas (using a ph sensitive radiotelemetry capsule). these values have been compared with those recorded in 66 normal subjects. no differences in gastrointestinal ph were found and the results did not support the hypothesis that colonic ph plays a role in the aetiology of colorectal neoplasia.
use of the levator scapulae muscle flap in head and neck reconstruction. there are numerous techniques available for reconstruction of defects following composite resection of oral cavity and oropharyngeal tumors. no single technique is applicable in all situations. the levator scapulae muscle flap is well known for its application in carotid protection. little attention is paid to its usefulness in other aspects of head and neck reconstruction. we have been using the levator scapulae muscle flap for a variety of reconstructive problems. the flap is useful for buttressing intraoral suture lines, closing intraoral defects, and providing soft tissue to fill in dead spaces and bulk out lateral and anterior oral defects. the levator flap was found to be easy to elevate, safe, and reliable with a minimum of wound complications. a review of 18 patients, representative case studies, and a discussion of surgical technique and relevant anatomy and blood supply is presented.
heart weights of white men 20 to 39 years of age. an analysis of 218 autopsy cases. review of autopsy data for 218 white men between 20 and 39 years of age who died of injuries or suddenly and unexpectedly indicated a mean heart weight of 371 g. the mean for those dying of external causes was 364 g whereas the mean for those dying of natural causes was 446 g. a coefficient for heart weight expressed as a percentage of body weight was lower in heavy individuals than lightweight individuals; it ranged between 0.38% and 0.55%, with a mean of 0.48%. heart weight, including epicardial fat, increased with age and body weight. these data may be useful to those who are called upon to investigate sudden and unexpected deaths.
myofibroblastoma of the tongue. an immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and flow cytometric study. a case of myofibroblastoma arising in the tongue of a 77-year-old man is described. the patient presented with a submucosal tongue mass without other associated symptoms. the tumor was 2 cm in diameter, well circumscribed, and composed of uniform spindle cells arranged in fascicles. electron microscopic examination and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a myofibroblastic origin for the tumor cells. dna flow cytometric analysis showed a diploid dna content of this tumor. to the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of myofibroblastoma occurring in the tongue.
postoperative sore throat: topical hydrocortisone forty patients undergoing tracheal intubation and controlled ventilation of the lungs for elective surgical procedures were studied. they were allocated randomly into one of two groups. the tracheal tubes used for group a patients were lubricated before insertion with water-soluble 1% hydrocortisone cream. those for group b patients were lubricated with ky jelly. the incidence of postoperative sore throat was found to be significantly greater in group a. topical 1% hydrocortisone cream is therefore ineffective in the prevention of postoperative sore throat.
diagnostic fine-needle puncture of the gallbladder with us guidance from february 1988 to january 1990, 118 fine-needle diagnostic punctures of the gallbladder (dpg) were performed under continuous ultrasound (us) guidance on symptomatic patients with gallstones. the first attempt at gallbladder puncture and aspiration was successful in every patient with use of a 22-gauge needle and continuous us visualization of the needle tip. the aspirated volume varied between 3 and 88 ml (average +/- standard deviation, 25.0 ml +/- 15.3). biliary analysis revealed an elevation of the cholesterol saturation index in patients with cholesterol gallstones (attenuation at computed tomographic examination of 50 hu or less) relative to that in patients with pigment stones (attenuation more than 50 hu) (1.3 +/- 0.2 vs 1.0 +/- 0.1, p less than .05). the nucleation time was prolonged in patients with pigment stones (19.3 days +/- 3.5 vs 1.8 days +/- 0.8 for patients with cholesterol stones, p less than .001). all patients remained hospitalized for 24 hours after dpg and were reexamined on an outpatient basis at 1 and 3 months thereafter. no complications were detected during either short-term observation or long-term follow-up. the authors conclude that dpg is a safe and valuable technique in the diagnostic work-up of gallstone patients to establish their suitability for nonoperative treatment.
morbidity and disability in older persons in the years prior to death. background: a large proportion of the disease and disability which affects older persons occurs in the years just prior to death. little prospective evidence is available which quantifies the burden of morbidity and disability during these years. methods: in three community-based cohorts of persons age 65 and older, chronic conditions and disability were evaluated for the three years prior to death in 531 persons who had three annual assessments and then died within one year of the third assessment. number of chronic conditions, prevalence of disability in activities of daily living (adls), and prevalence of disability on a modified rosow-breslau scale were determined for these decedents and compared to 8821 members of the cohorts known to have survived. results: prevalence rates of disease and disability increased during the follow-up for both decedents and survivors, with decedents generally having higher rates than survivors. disability rates prior to death, but not the number of diseases, increased with increasing age at death. the odds ratio for disability in adls at any of the three assessments for decedents versus survivors ranged from 3.0 to 4.2 in the three communities. in each community the odds ratio for adl disability was higher in women decedents versus survivors than in men decedents versus survivors. conclusions: these results have important implications for disability levels in future older populations in which death is projected to occur at increasingly higher ages.
the association of carotid artery stenosis with carotid sinus hypersensitivity. transitory cerebral ischaemic attack provoked by carotid sinus reflex the association of internal carotid stenosis with the carotid sinus syndrome represents a special clinical entity. transitory cerebral ischaemic attack (tia) will usually be manifested by activation of carotid sinus reflex. eighteen patients were observed suffering from both carotid sinus hypersensitivity and tia. the patients had had tia's for many years. unilateral internal carotid stenosis was detected in 15 cases, while 3 patients had bilateral carotid stenosis. on carotid sinus stimulation, syncope appeared and a tia could be provoked. the mean duration of the syncopic attack was 5500 ms and was based on sinus arrest in 14 cases and on third degree av block in 4 cases. in all patients carotid artery disobliteration was performed; in 14 patients pacemaker implantation was necessary, while 4 patients could be treated by atropine medication. the development of a tia could be abolished in every patient and 14 patients remained totally symptom free.
the role of sphincteroplasty for fecal incontinence reevaluated: a prospective physiologic and functional review. sixteen female patients (mean age 54.1 years; range 34-74 years) with a 9.8-year (range 1-25 years) history of incontinence to solid stool underwent overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication without fecal diversion. all patients were prospectively evaluated with preoperative anorectal manometry, electromyography, and pudendal nerve motor latency assessment, postoperative anorectal manometry, and preoperative and postoperative functional evaluation. mean and maximal resting pressures increased from 30 mm hg and 49 mm hg preoperatively to 40 mm hg and 57 mm hg, respectively, postoperatively. likewise, mean and maximal squeeze pressures increased from 27 mm hg and 48 mm hg preoperatively to 39 mm hg and 73 mm hg, respectively, postoperatively (p less than 0.01). furthermore, anal canal high pressure zone length was increased by sphincteroplasty from a mean of 0.9 cm (range 0-3 cm) to a mean of 2.1 cm (range 1-4 cm). these objective physiologic improvements correlated well with subjective functional improvement. subjectively, functional outcome was rated by patients as excellent in 38 percent, good in 38 percent, fair in 19 percent, and poor in only 5 percent of cases. overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication improves both the anal sphincter physiologic profile and fecal continence.
false aneurysm of the internal mammary artery. iatrogenic false aneurysm of a branch of the internal mammary artery after sternal wire closure is a very rare occurrence. we describe a case which appeared in a 62 year old woman operated upon for mitral valve replacement and diagnosed after digital subtraction angiography.
intravascular ultrasound: a new potential modality for angioplasty guidance. current angioplasty devices are limited by significant rates of arterial perforation and dissection, due to inadequate techniques of guidance, and by restenosis, which may be partly attributed to inadequate debulking of lesions. this paper describes the authors' initial experience in-vitro and in-vivo with intravascular ultrasound as a possible method of enhancing the three-dimensional guidance of devices through atherosclerotic obstructions. using an in-vitro model they correlated the dimensions and histologic morphology of animal and human arteries with ultrasound images of the specimens. additional in-vivo evaluations of this technology in canine arteriosclerotic and human atherosclerotic arteries preliminarily support the hypothesis that intravascular ultrasound defines the transmural arterial morphology and may enhance the accuracy of angioplasty procedures. simultaneous imaging with angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound is demonstrated as a potential method of accurately defining both intraluminal and transmural arterial wall characteristics.
dietary salt and blood pressure. a perspective. although dietary salt restriction is often valuable as sole or adjunctive therapy of hypertensive disorders, it is abundantly clear that hypertensive patients comprise a heterogeneous group with regard to salt sensitivity of blood pressure. this is apparent despite the many methodological obstacles to defining salt sensitivity in an individual patient. currently, dietary trial is the only sure means of defining a given patient as responsive to salt restriction. easily definable markers of salt sensitivity would allow appropriate targeting of this rather ponderous therapy. promising leads include the assessment of membrane ion transporters such as sodium-lithium exchange and of the activity of the renin-angiotensin system, including the phenomenon of "non-modulating" hypertension and other volume regulatory hormones such as atrial natriuretic factor. although less intensively studied than in hypertensive patients, the blood pressure response of normal subjects to salt restriction is also marked by great variability. given the possibility of deleterious consequences of population-wide salt restriction for at least some people in a setting such as the united states, it seems imprudent to recommend such a policy before its proven worth has been demonstrated by clinical trial. pending such evidence and the development of markers, salt restriction should be reserved for those in whom it is of demonstrated efficacy.
murine mast cells synthesize basement membrane components. a potential role in early fibrosis. mast cells are resident in tissues, particularly in association with endothelial and epithelial cell basement membranes, and increase at sites of inflammation, injury, and fibrosis. although mast cells are known to both release and generate proinflammatory molecules in response to inflammatory stimuli, little is known about their normal biologic function. here we demonstrate that il-3-dependent mouse pt18 mast cells, mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells, and rat basophilic leukemia cells express large amounts of mrna for collagen iv, laminin, and heparan sulfate proteoglycan. western blot analysis confirmed that mast cells synthesize and secrete significant amounts collagen iv and laminin b1 and b2 chains. these data suggest that mast cells may contribute to normal tissue repair and/or the early overproduction of basement membrane components seen in a variety of fibrotic conditions.
functional upper airway obstruction in adolescents. functional upper airway obstruction is an uncommon manifestation of a conversive reaction characterized by recurrent stridor attacks caused by adduction of the vocal cords during inspiration. the oxygen saturation never drops to pathologic levels. the stridor is not accompanied by an appropriate degree of anxiety and is not associated with other symptoms. patients benefit from verbal reassurance and speech therapy, but stridor attacks tend to recur and psychiatric consultation seems necessary in most cases. we present the case histories of three adolescent patients with nonorganic upper airway obstruction and describe the features that may facilitate the diagnosis of this condition. early diagnosis and intervention may prevent unnecessary and potentially harmful investigations and therapy.
relaxation training in school classes does not reduce headache complaints. the effect of teacher-presented progressive relaxation training (prt) on headaches, fear of failure and school problems was studied in school students. during ten physical education lessons, students received either prt (n = 110) or placebo training (n = 92). the effect of the training was investigated in students who indicated the presence of headaches in a pre-training diary. no significant differences were found between both training groups regarding headache frequency, duration and intensity and the psychological variables. on the basis of these and previous findings, it is recommended to present prt to fairly small groups of self-selected subjects instead of complete classes.
are measurements of height made by health visitors sufficiently accurate for routine screening of growth? to find out whether measurements of height made by health visitors are sufficiently accurate for use in routine screening of children we carried out an interobserver and intraobserver reliability study. height measurements were made on a group of 10 children aged 3 years old and 10 aged 4.5 years old by two sets of four health visitors. they used a microtoise or wall chart and the measurements were compared with those made by a trained auxologist with a harpenden stadiometer. for a single assessment of height both pieces of equipment gave reasonably accurate results. in a child aged 3 years, with height measured on the microtoise as 100 cm, the true height could be expected--with 95% probability--to lie between 99.2 cm-101.8 cm. at the age of 4.5 years, if the measurement was 110 cm, the child's true height could be expected to lie between 108.9 cm and 111.9 cm. the narrowest confidence interval for the growth rate from 3 to 4.5 years was achieved with the microtoise, taking the mean of three measurements. we conclude that measurements made by health visitors are sufficiently accurate for routine screening of height, and the use of such measurements for the calculation of height velocity could be improved by more structured training.
diltiazem overdose: pharmacokinetics of diltiazem and its metabolites and effect of multiple dose charcoal therapy. we describe a 38 year-old female who ingested 900 mg of diltiazem. she experienced hypotension, bradycardia and heart block but responded well to supportive care that included normal saline infusion and vasopressors. calcium administration was not beneficial. serial plasma concentrations of diltiazem, n-demethyldiltiazem and desacetyldiltiazem were quantified. by comparing the elimination half-life for diltiazem with historical controls, it is concluded that multiple dose charcoal therapy was not beneficial for our patient.
cervical rotation flaps for midface resurfacing. the midface has long served as a focus for creativity in surgical reconstruction. full-thickness skin grafts, split-thickness grafts, and distal flaps have long been used to attempt to reduplicate existing anatomy in this area. recent reconstruction efforts have focused on the creative use of microvascular free flaps for this purpose. this article reports on the use of extensively developed regional rotation flaps as an excellent reconstructive modality for use in this area of the face. the details of surgical incisional planning are given. the nuances of surgical creation of these flaps and their rotation and suspension into place are given. the cases we have done using this technique for the past 3 years are reviewed. our present indications for use of these flaps and their limitations are given.
evaluation of postprandial hyperemia in superior mesenteric artery and portal vein in healthy and cirrhotic humans: an operator-blind echo-doppler study. in an operator-blind design, we used an echo-doppler duplex system to examine superior mesenteric artery and portal vein hemodynamics on two consecutive mornings in 12 fasting cirrhotic patients and 12 matched controls, randomized to a standardized 355 kcal mixed-liquid meal vs. water. cross-sectional area and mean velocity were recorded from the portal vein and superior mesenteric artery at 30 min intervals, from 0 min to 150 min after ingestion. flows were calculated. pulsatility index, an index related to vascular resistance, was obtained for the mesenteric artery. baseline flows did not differ between cirrhotic patients and control patients, but pulsatility index was reduced in the cirrhotic subjects. maximal postprandial hyperemia was attained at 30 min. cirrhotic patients showed a blunted hyperemic response to food. in normal controls, portal vein area increased significantly after the meal from 30 min to 150 min, whereas in cirrhotic patients a significant difference occurred only at 30 min. pulsatility index in both groups was significantly reduced after eating, and this reduction persisted up to 150 min. no changes after ingestion of water were observed. echo-doppler was very sensitive in detecting postprandial splanchnic hemodynamic changes and differences between cirrhotic patients and normal subjects. mesenteric artery pulsatility index was more sensitive than flow in detecting baseline hemodynamic differences. in cirrhotic patients, portal postprandial hyperemia was mainly related to the increase in mean velocity.
total hip arthroplasty with cement. a long-term radiographic analysis in patients who are older than fifty and younger than fifty years. the long-term performance of a total of 712 charnley and sth prostheses was evaluated as a function of the patient's age (older than fifty years or younger than fifty years) and of the underlying disease (osteoarthrosis, rheumatoid arthritis, or avascular necrosis). in patients who were older than fifty years, there were lower incidences of continuous cement-bone radiolucency about the acetabular component (p = 0.04), wear of the polyethylene acetabular cup (p = 0.03), and resorption of the calcar (p = 0.03). however, larger percentages of younger patients had rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis. in the cohort of patients who had osteoarthrosis, the performance of the prosthesis did not differ significantly between older and younger patients; therefore we attributed the differences that were observed to the disease--that is, to rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis.
atrial fibrillation after stroke in the elderly. to examine the relationship between atrial fibrillation and mortality after stroke, we studied 186 men and 167 women from the waikato stroke registry whose mean age was 75.2 +/- 7.5 years. twenty-three percent (82 of 353) had atrial fibrillation or flutter on their admission electrocardiogram. this group differed significantly from that with sinus rhythm in three respects: 1) they were older (p less than 0.01); 2) they had more severe current stroke deficit as evidenced by lower limb power (p less than 0.05) and mini-mental state score (p less than 0.001), higher incidence of homonomous hemianopia (p less than 0.05), and lower incidence of lacunar syndrome stroke (p less than 0.001); and 3) they had a significantly higher incidence of cardiomegaly and congestive heart failure (p less than 0.01). functional outcome was insignificantly better in the group with sinus rhythm. during a mean follow-up period of 18 months, mortality was significantly higher in the group with atrial fibrillation (p = 0.001). proportional hazards modeling, however, showed that the apparently poorer survival in those patients with atrial fibrillation could be explained by factors other than cardiac rhythm, such as age, mini-mental state score, level of consciousness, and interstitial edema on admission chest radiograph. thus, atrial fibrillation was not an independent predictor of survival after stroke.
sudden blindness after thermocoagulation of the trigeminal ganglion. sudden blindness during percutaneous thermocoagulation of the gasserian ganglion occurred in a 72-year-old woman with trigeminal neuralgia. considered a safe procedure, we highlight the possibility of this serious complication which was probably due to direct damage of the optic nerve.
clinical significance of simple heart rate-adjusted st segment depression in supine leg exercise in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. to evaluate the clinical significance of simple heart rate-adjusted st segment depression (delta st/delta hr) in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease, 42 patients with stable exertional angina underwent supine leg exercise testing and cardiac catheterization. during exercise, heart rate, a multilead electrocardiogram, and pulmonary artery wedge pressure were recorded. the sensitivity and accuracy of the delta st/delta hr criteria (greater than or equal to 3.0 microv/beat/min) were significantly greater than the conventional analysis of st segment depression criteria (greater than or equal to 0.2 mv) for detecting three-vessel coronary artery disease at a matched specificity of 72% (100% versus 46%, 81% versus 64%, p less than 0.01). a significant linear correlation was found between maximum pulmonary artery wedge pressure increments during exercise (delta pawp) or gensini score and the delta st/delta hr (delta pawp: r = 0.51, p less than 0.001; gensini score: r = 0.47, p less than 0.001). there were no statistically significant differences in the delta pawp or gensini score between patients with three-vessel disease who had delta st/delta hr greater than or equal to 3.0 microv/beat/min and those with one- or two-vessel disease who had delta st/delta hr greater than or equal to 3.0 microv/beat/min (delta pawp: 18.1 +/- 2.0 versus 21.9 +/- 3.3, p = ns; gensini score: 68.5 +/- 6.6 versus 66.3 +/- 11.3, p = ns). these findings demonstrate that delta st/delta hr is more useful than a conventional analysis of st segment depression for identifying not only anatomically severe coronary artery disease but also functionally severe coronary artery disease.
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking: correlates and consequences. recognition that the physical, psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly. we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker (h+) in a population-based (n = 1,155, mean age = 73.7 years) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders; 10.4% of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives. h+ men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers (h-) or never drinkers (n). mortality was higher among h+ men who were current drinkers than among h- or n men. h+ men reported more major illnesses, poorer self-perceived health status, more physician visits, more depressive symptoms, lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h- or n men. self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h+ men, who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination. thus, a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical, psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men.
plasma homocyst(e)ine levels in men with premature coronary artery disease. plasma homocyst(e)ine (that is, the sum of free and bound homocysteine and its oxidized forms, homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide) levels were determined in 170 men (mean age +/- sd 50 +/- 7 years) with premature coronary artery disease diagnosed at coronary angiography and in 255 control subjects clinically free of coronary artery disease (mean age 49 +/- 6 years). patients with coronary artery disease had a higher homocyst(e)ine level than control subjects (13.66 +/- 6.44 versus 10.93 +/- 4.92 nmol/ml, p less than 0.001). high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol levels were lower (32 +/- 10 versus 46 +/- 13 mg/dl, p less than 0.001) and triglycerides levels were higher (193 +/- 103 versus 136 +/- 106 mg/dl, p less than 0.001) in the coronary disease group. plasma total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol levels were not significantly different between patients with coronary disease and control subjects. the presence of hypertension, smoking or diabetes mellitus did not significantly alter homocyst(e)ine levels in the patient or the control group. patients who were not taking a beta-adrenergic blocking drug (n = 70) had a nonsignificantly higher homocyst(e)ine level than did patients taking this class of drugs (n = 100) (14.67 +/- 8.92 versus 12.95 +/- 3.77 nmol/ml, p = 0.087). by design, none of the control subjects were taking a beta-blocker. no significant correlations were observed between homocyst(e)ine and age, serum cholesterol, ldl cholesterol, hdl cholesterol or triglyceride levels. it is concluded that an elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine level is an independent risk factor for the development of premature coronary atherosclerosis in men.
musculoskeletal abnormalities in a patient with juvenile hypothyroidism. abnormalities in growth and development are the most striking clinical features of juvenile acquired hypothyroidism. therefore, physicians should consider the diagnosis of hypothyroidism in any child with musculoskeletal growth dysfunction. drs kilpatrick and fincher describe a case demonstrating the severe and potentially irreversible effects of prolonged, untreated hypothyroidism.
blood pressure response to dietary calcium intervention in humans. epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that dietary calcium deficiency may lead to the development of hypertension. this article reviews findings in human trials on calcium intervention with special reference to the responses of blood pressure and biochemical variables. calcium supplementation consistently resulted in decreased blood pressure in a subset of hypertensive and normotensive subjects, but led to increased blood pressure in some hypertensive patients. the variable blood pressure responses to calcium supplementation could not be predicted on the basis of routine biochemical parameters and appeared to be due to differences in the backgrounds of the subjects and/or the design and size of the trials. it is concluded that further studies are required on the hypotensive effect of calcium supplementation.
articulatory impairment associated with tardive dyskinesia. the speech of two patients with tardive dyskinesia was studied, and one neuroleptic-treated patient having no signs of overt tardive dyskinesia served as control. a structured interview, including reading, repetition of sentences, and spontaneous conversation, was performed. a phonetic transcription and analysis of abnormal phonemes was done by a linguist under blind conditions. both patients with tardive dyskinesia had abnormal phonemes whereas the control patient had none. these differences could not be explained by age, direct neuroleptic effect, or neuroleptic exposure time. the abnormal phonemes were all consonants. the authors conclude that tardive dyskinesia may cause articulatory communication problems.
body position changes redistribute lung computed-tomographic density in patients with acute respiratory failure. ten patients with parenchymal acute respiratory failure (arf) underwent computed tomography (ct) scans while in the supine and prone positions. at equal levels of positive end-expiratory pressure, the authors measured the changes of ct density in dorsal and ventral basilar lung regions induced by the change of position as well as alterations of gas exchange. the level of venous admixture did not change with body position. the ct scan image of each lung was fractionated into ten levels from dorsal to ventral, each constituting 10% of the lung height. after measuring each lung fraction, the volume, the average ct number, its frequency distribution, and the expected normal value, we computed the lung tissue mass, the excess tissue mass, and the fraction of normally inflated tissue (excess tissue mass = amount of "tissue," which includes edema, cells, and blood in excess of the expected normal value). we also estimated the superimposed hydrostatic pressure on each lung region. we found that the excess lung tissue mass is independent of position. however, in patients in the supine position, lung ct density increased and regional inflation decreased from ventral to dorsal, suggesting progressive deflation of gas-containing alveoli along the gravity gradient. a similar ventral-dorsal deflation pattern occurred within 10 min in patients in the prone position. we conclude that the lung in patients with arf behaves like an elastic body with a diffusely increased mass; dependent lung regions are compressed by the pressure of overlying structures.
role of cell-mediated immunity to staphylococci in blepharitis. we studied cell-mediated immunity to staphylococcal antigens in 116 patients with chronic blepharitis and eight normal subjects. antibodies in tears and blood were measured. enhanced cell-mediated immunity to staphylococcus aureus was demonstrated in 46 of 116 patients (40%) in the absence of antibodies to teichoic acid but not among normal subjects. symptoms of grittiness and morning stickiness were more frequent among patients without enhanced responses. folliculitis occurred more commonly among patients with enhanced immunity. marginal keratitis occurred equally among patients with and without enhanced systemic immunity, but patients with enhanced response more commonly required topical corticosteroid therapy. desensitization to staphylococcal antigens could be investigated as a potential therapeutic approach in selected patients.
afferent nipple valve malfunction caused by anchoring collar: an unexpected late complication of the kock continent ileal reservoir. in the construction of a kock continent ileal reservoir for urinary diversion, significantly high rates of late postoperative complications regarding nipple valves, the efferent limb in particular, have been reported. there are only a few reports on afferent nipple valve malfunction. a total of 42 patients who underwent a kock pouch operation and were observed for more than 12 months (mean 38 months) was evaluated in terms of afferent nipple valve malfunction. late afferent nipple valve complications were observed in 10 of the 42 patients (24%). these complications included erosion of the polyester fiber fabric used as a collar (5 patients), stenosis of the afferent limb (2) and obstruction of the afferent nipple by a mucous plug or fungus ball (3). the latter 2 complications were due to mechanical or dynamic obstruction of urine flow caused by a nonabsorbable collar. none of the 10 patients had problems with efferent nipple valve function. our results suggest that the peristaltic direction of the intestine and the use of nonabsorbable material as a collar are primarily responsible for the late afferent nipple valve complications. further modifications are needed to produce a stable nipple valve. otherwise, simpler and more reliable alternative techniques of antireflux anastomosis should be considered.
decalcification of a choroidal osteoma. a 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye. a choroidal osteoma was suspected, and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis. fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour, which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice. recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment. three years after the patient first presented, thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination. during the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared, leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy. total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography.
ultrastructural evidence of the effects of shear stress variation on intimal thickening in dogs with arterially transplanted autologous vein grafts. based on our findings that changes in wall shear stress, not the rate of blood flow, were the main hemodynamic factor related to intimal hyperplasia of autologous vein grafts, we further investigated the effect of wall shear stress variation on sequential ultrastructural changes in the intimal hyperplasia of arterially transplanted autovein grafts, using canine models. as noted, wall shear stress variation (tau-variation) could be defined by the variation in wall shear stress within a cardiac cycle, using a desktop flow waveform analyzer. in group i, which had a high flow rate of 78.4 +/- 4.6 ml/min and low tau-variation of 36.1 +/- 2.2 dynes/cm2, intimal hyperplasia was significant. ultrastructurally, there was a marked transformation of intimal smooth muscle cells to secretory cells 2 to 4 weeks after implantation. the surface of the intima was lined with modified smooth muscle cells at 2 weeks after implantation. in group ii, which had a low flow rate of 5.6 +/- 2.2 ml/min and normal tau-variation value (174.6 +/- 13.0 dynes/cm2), intimal hyperplasia was minimal, and there were several layers of contractile type smooth muscle cells, with characteristic myofibrillae. the surface of the intima was lined with endothelial cells at 2 weeks after implantation. these findings suggest that, in regions of low wall shear stress variation, intimal smooth muscle cells of autovein grafts may well become secretory cells, and enhanced platelet adherence could occur during early intimal repair, causing intimal hyperplasia to develop.
cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after subclavian vein catheterization. a patient developed life-threatening cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after insertion of a subclavian catheter in the operating room. contrast was infused through the catheter, demonstrating its malposition in the pericardial space. contrast infusion was valuable in evaluating this complication of central line placement.
effect of naproxen and sulindac on blood pressure response to atenolol. twenty-eight patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension well controlled by atenolol entered a five-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the effects of sulindac and naproxen on blood pressure (bp) control. atenolol alone was administered during weeks 1, 3, and 5. naproxen or sulindac was administered with atenolol during week 2, with crossover during week 4. data were analyzed for 27 of the patients (one dropped out after developing a skin rash). naproxen significantly increased the systolic bp compared with placebo (mean 4.0 mm hg; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.1-7.0; p less than 0.05). there were no significant differences in systolic bp during sulindac administration compared with placebo or naproxen. no significant effects on diastolic bp were observed. weight was increased by naproxen and sulindac compared with placebo (mean 0.6-0.8 kg, p less than 0.05), although not to a clinically significant extent. one-week therapy with naproxen has a greater potential than sulindac to increase systolic bp in well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving atenolol; however, the increase is minor and unlikely to be of clinical significance.
inhibitory role of the coronary arterial endothelium to alpha-adrenergic stimulation in experimental heart failure. the role of the endothelium in regulating coronary alpha-adrenergic tone was evaluated in isolated coronary arterial rings from dogs with and without pacing-induced congestive heart failure (chf). the maximal contractile response to methoxamine was attenuated approximately 43% (p less than 0.05) in both intact and denuded chf rings compared with control. conversely, norepinephrine-induced contractions were diminished 58% in intact chf vessels and 39% in denuded chf vessels (p less than 0.05). denudation did not alter responses to methoxamine but significantly (p less than 0.05) augmented the tension generated by norepinephrine in both control (1.7-fold) and chf (2.4-fold) arteries. in both intact control and chf coronary arteries, norepinephrine elicited rapid, transient relaxations that preceded slow, sustained contractions; the initial relaxation phase was endothelium dependent, because denudation eliminated the response. relaxations to the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist bht 920 were also dependent on the presence of an endothelium. at peak chf, endothelium-dependent relaxations to norepinephrine and bht 920 were enhanced, whereas relaxations to nitroglycerin and acetylcholine were unaltered. the data suggest that alpha-adrenergic tone in canine coronary arteries is diminished by pacing-induced chf because of a decrease in alpha 1-adrenoceptor-mediated constriction and an enhanced capacity of the endothelium to antagonize the direct vascular smooth muscle response of norepinephrine through endothelium-dependent, alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxations.
ultrastructural demonstration of peroxidase expression in acute unclassified leukemias: correlation to immunophenotype and treatment outcome. the lineage affinity of 57 cases of acute unclassified leukemias (aul) was reevaluated by ultrastructural analysis of peroxidase expression (poem) in combination with immunophenotyping and analysis of immunoglobulin gene configuration. twenty-three cases of myeloid and three cases of megakaryocytic differentiation were identified by detection of ultrastructural myeloperoxidase (umpo) and platelet peroxidase (uppo). no significant correlation was noted between myeloid marker expression and poem positivity, whereas presence of cd 19 or cd 24 antigen significantly correlated with poem negativity (p = .001 and .023, respectively). ig gene rearrangements including oligoclonal patterns were also recorded in 8 of 14 umpo+ patients tested. fourteen umpo+ patients responded poorly to an all/aul chemotherapy regimen with a low complete remission (cr) rate of 29% and a short median remission duration (mrd) of 5 months. the poem- patients proved very heterogenous with respect to immunophenotype and ig gene rearrangement. seventeen of 21 patients tested had ig gene rearrangements, including oligoclonal patterns. combined data suggest that a proportion of these cases probably derive from a very immature lymphoid progenitor cell, particularly because 15 poem- aul patients showed a response to all/aul chemotherapy comparable to that observed in patients with definitive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) (cr rate 80%, mrd 20 months). thus, ultrastructural analysis of peroxidase expression can provide decisive prognostic information in aul patients.
fluorosilicone oil in the treatment of retinal detachment. we evaluated the use of a heavier-than-water fluorinated silicone oil in the treatment of 30 selected cases of complicated retinal detachment from january 1988 to july 1989. proliferative vitreoretinopathy grade c-2 or greater accounted for 19 cases, proliferative diabetic retinopathy with traction detachment for two cases, giant retinal tears five, ruptured globe with retinal detachment two, massive choroidal effusion with retinal detachment one, and acute retinal necrosis with retinal detachment one. initial retinal reattachment was achieved in all cases. complications included redetachment seven (23%), cataract six (75% of phakic patients), raised intraocular pressure four (13%), hypotony four (13%), keratopathy three (10%), uveitis-synechia formation three (10%), phthisis two (3%), choroidal haemorrhage one (3%), and vitreous haemorrhage one (3%). postoperative visual acuities with at least six months' follow-up range from no light perception to 20/50, with seven patients (23%) 20/400 or better.
oral manifestations of hiv infection and their management. ii. less common lesions. this second of two articles reviews the many uncommon and rare oral lesions that have arisen in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). the various drug-related oral disorders of hiv disease are also considered.
incidence of myocarditis. a 10-year autopsy study from malmo, sweden. although myocarditis has been known for almost two centuries, data in regard to its incidence have varied widely. autopsy studies have reported an incidence of 3.5% to as high as 10%. the main reason for such diversity of data appears to be the lack of unanimity as to what constitutes myocarditis. recently, definitions of myocarditis have been proposed and precise criteria for the morphologic recognition of myocarditis have been published. in this study an analysis of 12,747 consecutive autopsies performed from 1975 to 1984 at malmo (sweden) general hospital was carried out. applying the newly proposed histologic criteria, the diagnosis of myocarditis was made in 136 cases, which constitute 1.06% of the autopsy population studied. this rate of myocarditis incidence at postmortem is lower by far than rates previously published.
multivessel coronary angioplasty from 1980 to 1989: procedural results and long-term outcome from june 1980 to january 1989, 3,186 patients had coronary angioplasty of two (2,399 patients) or three (787 patients) of the three major epicardial coronary systems. a mean of 3.6 lesions (range 2 to 14) were dilated per patient, with a 96% success rate. acute complications were seen in 94 patients (2.9%) and included q wave infarction in 47 (1.4%), urgent coronary artery bypass surgery in 33 (1%) and death in 31 (1%). multivariate correlates of in-hospital death included impaired left ventricular function, age greater than or equal to 70 years and female gender. complete long-term follow-up data were available for the first 700 patients and the follow-up period averaged 54 +/- 15 months in duration. actuarial 1 and 5 year survival rates were 97% and 88%, respectively, and were not different in patients with two or three vessel disease. by cox regression analysis, age greater than or equal to 70 years, left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 40% and prior coronary artery bypass surgery were associated with an increased mortality rate during the follow-up period. repeat revascularization procedures were required in 322 patients (46%). restenosis resulted in either repeat angioplasty or bypass surgery in 227 patients (32%). repeat coronary angioplasty was performed for isolated restenosis in 126 patients (18%), for restenosis and disease progression at new sites in 85 patients (12%) and for new disease progression alone in 54 patients (8%). coronary bypass surgery was required in 110 patients (16%) during the follow-up period.
pulmonary tolerance of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. the effects of primary and secondary long-term prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia with aerosolized pentamidine on pulmonary function in hiv+ patients were evaluated. eighty-one patients, none of whom were drug addicts or had pulmonary kaposi's sarcoma, were studied. fifty patients were receiving ap as secondary prophylaxis, 36 monthly and 14 twice-monthly; eight patients with a history of pcp served as control subjects. twenty-three patients were receiving ap as primary prophylaxis, 12 monthly and 11 twice-monthly. pulmonary function tests, including spirometry, lung transfer capacity for carbon monoxide (tlco) and alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient (p[a-a]o2) were evaluated at m1, ie, one month after the diagnosis of pcp, or at the beginning of the ap prophylaxis, and then at three-month intervals (m4 to m13). no differences were observed in the results of spirometry or p(a-a)o2. among the patients receiving secondary prophylaxis, a significant increase (paired student's t-test) in tlco occurred at m7 compared to m1 in the group receiving monthly administrations (p less than 0.01) and in the untreated control group (p less than 0.05); there was no significant difference in tlco at m13 compared to m1 in the 12 patients who received monthly administrations for this period or at m7 in the 14 patients receiving ap twice-monthly. no significant difference in tlco was observed at m7 in the primary prophylaxis groups. these results indicate that pulmonary tolerance of ap, as reflected by pulmonary function tests, is good.
modified kraske approach for disease of the mid-rectum. a modification of dr. paul kraske's approach for removal of mid-rectal lesions has been used in 11 patients from 1977 to 1988 by the senior authors. patients ranged in age from 56 to 89 yr, with an average of 67 yr. there were seven male and four female patients. indications for surgery were as follows: villous adenoma (seven), carcinoid (one), recurrent dysplasia in a previous endoscopic polypectomy site (one), positive distal margin for neoplasm following low anterior sigmoid resection (one), and adenocarcinoma in one elderly poor-risk patient. all lesions were in the middle rectum (7-11 cm from the anal verge, average 9 cm). the postoperative stay ranged from 6 to 12 days with a mean of 8 days. the average follow-up for the 11 patients is 3 1/2 yr (1 month to 7 yr), with only one patient having a local recurrent lesion. there was no morbidity or mortality. we conclude that this modification of the kraske approach offers a good alternative for excision of mid-rectal lesions in terms of technical ease, efficacy, safety, and patient tolerance. the modified kraske approach is indicated in certain situations and should be a part of the surgeon's armamentarium.
striatonigral degeneration. a clinicopathological study. the clinical and pathological features of 10 cases of striatonigral degeneration are described: 5 were misdiagnosed in life as parkinson's disease. retrospectively, helpful early pointers to the diagnosis in these cases included unexplained falls, autonomic dysfunction, absence of rest tremor and failure to respond to l-dopa, but these were not always present. the pathological diagnosis could not be excluded on macroscopic examination of the striatum. relative preservation of the putamen occurred in the 4 patients who benefited from l-dopa. the caudate nucleus was involved in all cases and there was no sparing of the large striatal neurons. in mild cases, involvement of the putamen was confined to its posterior two-thirds, dorsolaterally. with increasing severity this extended in a dorsal to ventral and posterior to anterior direction. seven of the cases had evidence of olivopontocerebellar damage, but only 2 of these had clinical evidence of cerebellar disease. correlation was found between the neuronal counts in caudate:putamen, striatum:nigra compacta, globus pallidus:nigra compacta, nigra compacta:locus coeruleus. the most severely involved part of the substantia nigra pars compacta was the ventrolateral zone, which projects to the dorsal putamen, the earliest site of striatal disease.
arterial blood pressure. correlation with erythrocyte count, hematocrit, and hemoglobin concentration. the relationship between arterial blood pressure and red blood cell variables was investigated in 1013 unselected persons with a blood pressure range of 90 to 225 mm hg systolic and 50 to 145 mm hg diastolic. statistically significant correlations were demonstrated between mean (as well as systolic and diastolic) arterial blood pressure and red blood cell count (r = 0.27; p less than .0001), hematocrit (r = 0.28; p less than .0001), and hemoglobin concentration (r = 0.29; p less than .0001). average arterial blood pressure was higher in men than in women (133 +/- 16/83 +/- 10 v 124 +/- 16/79 +/- 9 mm hg, p less than .0001) and this was associated with higher values for erythrocyte count, hemoglobin concentration, and hematocrit in men as compared to women. the significant correlation of blood pressure and hematocrit, which represents one important determinant of blood viscosity, points to a role for rheological factors in the long-term control of blood pressure. moreover, it might be speculated that the sex difference in blood pressure as observed in the present study may be due, at least in part, to stimulated erythropoiesis in men as compared to women.
direct interaction of a ligand for the erbb2 oncogene product with the egf receptor and p185erbb2. the erbb2 oncogene encodes a 185-kilodalton transmembrane protein whose sequence is similar to the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr). a 30-kilodalton factor (gp30) secreted from mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cells was shown to be a ligand for p185erbb2. an antibody to egfr abolished the tyrosine phosphorylation induced by egf and transforming growth factor-alpha (tgf-alpha) but only partially blocked that produced by gp30 in sk-br-3 breast cancer cells. in two cell lines that overexpress erbb2 but do not expresss egfr (mda-mb-453 breast cancer cells and a chinese hamster ovary cell line that had been transfected with erbb2), phosphorylation of p185erbb2 was induced only by gp30. the gp30 specifically inhibited the growth of cells that overexpressed p185erbb2. an antibody to egfr had no effect on the inhibition of sk-br-3 cell colony formation obtained with gp30. thus, it appeared that gp30 interacted directly with the egfr and erbb2. direct binding of gp30 to p185erbb2 was confirmed by binding competition experiments, where gp30 was found to displace the p185erbb2 binding of a specific antibody to p185erbb2. the evidence described here suggests that gp30 is a ligand for p185erbb2.
morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions. clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse: 15 patients, aged 16 to 69 years (mean 39), died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy (hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse); the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal. of the latter 41 patients, 7, aged 17 to 59 years (mean 45), had associated congenital heart disease, and 34 patients, aged 17 to 70 years (mean 52), had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities. compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal, the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger (mean age 39 +/- 17 versus 52 +/- 15 years; p = 0.01), more often women (67% versus 26%; p = 0.008) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation (7% versus 38%; p = 0.02). the 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae (29% versus 67%; p = 0.04). the frequency of increased heart weight (67% versus 59%), a dilated mitral valve anulus (80% versus 81%), a dilated tricuspid valve anulus (17% versus 17%), an elongated anterior mitral leaflet (86% versus 54%), an elongated posterior mitral leaflet (79% versus 77%) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet (73% versus 63%) was similar between the two groups. the severity of the prolapse (mild 20% versus 11%; moderate 27% versus 58%; severe 53% versus 32%) also was similar between the two groups. thus, persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation.
prospective study of estrogen replacement therapy and risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women [published erratum appears in jama 1991 apr 10;265(14):1828] we prospectively examined the use of estrogen replacement therapy in relation to breast cancer incidence in a cohort of women 30 to 55 years of age in 1976. during 367 187 person-years of follow-up among postmenopausal women, 722 incident cases of breast cancer were documented. overall, past users of replacement estrogen were not at increased risk (relative risk, 0.98; 95% confidence interval, 0.81 to 1.18), including even those with more than 10 years since last [corrected] use (relative risk after adjustment for established risk factors, 0.70; 95% confidence interval, 0.45 to 1.10). however, the risk of breast cancer was significantly elevated among current users (relative risk, 1.36; 95% confidence interval, 1.11 to 1.67). among current users, a stronger relationship was observed with increasing age but not with increasing duration of use. these data suggest that long-term past use of estrogen replacement therapy is not related to risk of breast cancer but that current use may modestly increase risk.
the efficacy of central venous and pulmonary artery catheters and therapy based upon them in reducing mortality and morbidity. the purpose of this study was to (1) evaluate the relative cost effectiveness of the central venous pressure and flow-directed pulmonary artery catheters used to maintain normal hemodynamic values as therapeutic goals in the control groups vs supranormal values empirically observed in critically ill postoperative survivors in the protocol groups, and (2) to evaluate tissue perfusion and oxygenation in relationship to organ failure and mortality. in two prospective clinical trials there were no significant differences in outcome between the central venous pressure and pulmonary artery control groups that used normal values as therapeutic goals. however, there were marked and significant reductions in morbidity and mortality of the protocol groups using the supranormal cardiac index, oxygen delivery, and oxygen consumption values as goals. the cumulative oxygen debt was less and organ failures were fewer and less severe in the protocol groups than in the control groups.
hypertension during pregnancy in insulin-dependent diabetic women. insulin-dependent diabetic patients are at increased risk for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. this study was designed to study prospectively the rate of pregnancy-induced hypertension (pih) in 175 insulin-dependent diabetic pregnancies (88 white classes b-c, 87 classes d-rt). pregnancy-induced hypertension was defined as two or more occurrences after 20 weeks' gestation of a mean arterial pressure (map) of 105 mmhg or greater or an increase of 20 mmhg or greater from the baseline map. the rate of pih in the diabetic population was 15.4% and was significantly associated with nulliparity, poor glycemic control in the first and second trimesters, and advanced white class. neonatal outcome was not significantly altered in the presence of pih. we speculate that improved glycemic control throughout pregnancy might reduce the rate of this complication in diabetic patients.
ileal duplication cyst causing massive bleeding in a child. intestinal duplication is a rare congenital anomaly; nonetheless, it comprises more than half of all alimentary duplication disorders. our case report describes the hemorrhagic sequelae of this entity with surgical and pathologic findings. a review of anatomical classification, embryology, and natural history of duplication cyst follows; differentiating characteristics of duplication cyst versus meckel's diverticulum are outlined. intestinal duplication cyst should be considered in the differential diagnosis of gi bleeding, especially in children.
disturbances in the cerebral perfusion of human immune deficiency virus-1 seropositive asymptomatic subjects: a quantitative tomography study of 18 cases. quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow (cbf) by xenon-133 (133xe) tomography, together with magnetic resonance imaging (mri), electroencephalography (eeg), psychometric tests, and laboratory analyses were performed on 18 human immunodeficiency virus 1 (hiv-1) seropositive asymptomatic subjects. abnormalities of cerebral perfusion were observed in 16 cases (88%). these abnormalities were particularly frequent in the frontal regions (77% of cases). mri demonstrated leucoencephalopathy in only two cases. eeg showed only induced diffuse abnormalities in two cases. psychometric tests showed restricted moderate disturbances in 55% of patients. these disturbances mostly concerned those sectors involved in cognitive functions and memorization. these results indicate that quantitative measurements of cbf by 133xe-spect is capable of detecting abnormalities of cerebral perfusion at a very early stage (phase ii) of hiv-1 infection. these abnormalities are indications of disturbances resulting from unidentified metabolic or vascular lesions. this technique appears to be superior to mri at this stage of the disease's development. it could provide objective information leading to earlier treatment, and prove useful in evaluating potential antiviral chemotherapy.
local failure and related complications after definitive treatment of carcinoma of the prostate by irradiation or surgery. the authors review their institution's experience with the failure of definitive treatment to achieve local tumor control and with the distant dissemination and local morbidity associated with such failure. the causes of local failure are various: incomplete resection, implantation of spilled cells, and, possibly, selective implantation of circulating tumor cells in traumatized tissues after surgery and totally or partially resistant cells, new tumors, or radiologic misses after radiation. treatment of local failure may be prophylactic or therapeutic and differs depending on the stage of the disease. failure to control the tumor locally in the presence of distant metastases does not alter the length of survival, but it can profoundly affect the quality of survival.
recurrent wheezy bronchitis and viral respiratory infections fifty four patients aged from 1 to 6 years who had had recurrent attacks of wheezy bronchitis were prospectively followed up for three months to find out if there was an association between different viral respiratory infections and episodes of wheezing. of the 115 episodes of upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, virus or mycoplasma pneumoniae infection were diagnosed in 52 (45%). thirty four of rhinoviruses. the patients had an average of 2.1 episodes of respiratory tract symptoms the total mean (sd) duration of which was 30 (2) days of the 92 days that followed. wheezing occurred during 76 (66%) of the 115 episodes and during a third of these the patient was admitted to hospital because of severe dyspnoea. wheezing started a mean (sd) of 43 (7) hours after the first symptoms of respiratory infection and persisted for 3.8 (4.2) days in patients in whom virus infection was diagnosed. the incidence of wheezing was not associated with ige mediated atopy, with positive virological tests, or with fever during virus infection, but was associated with parental smoking and more than one sibling.
a community-based study of acute respiratory tract infections in children in uruguay. acute respiratory tract infection (ari) was investigated in children less than 5 years old in a longitudinal community-based study of 166 families living in a socioeconomically depressed area in montevideo, uruguay. pediatricians made home visits every 10 days from may 1985 to december 1987, and symptoms and signs of ari were recorded. the incidence of ari was 5.8 episodes per child-year during the first 12 months of life and decreased with increasing age of the index children; the rate was highest in children 1-5 months old. children observed from birth were ill during 21% of the visits. according to the definitions of the study, the incidence of lower respiratory tract infection was 11.6% higher than the incidence of upper respiratory tract infections. the rates of ari were higher during the colder months. most risk factors for ari were only marginally statistically significant.
distinct characteristics of lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells derived from patients with b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (b-cll). a factor in b-cll serum promotes natural killer cell-like lak cell growth. we show that lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell precursors derived from patients with b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (b-cll) and cultured in the presence of recombinant interleukin-2 and normal human serum (nhs), develop into primarily nk cell-like (cd 57+) lak cells, whereas identically prepared lak cell precursors from normal subjects develop into mainly t cell-like (cd 3+, cd 8+) lak cells. b-cll lak cells exhibited greater proliferative capacity than did normal lak cells. when normal lak cells were grown in b-cll serum instead of nhs, their proliferation increased; nk cell levels also increased to those found in b-cll lak cells, suggesting that b-cll serum contains a factor that promotes nk cell-like growth, lak cells derived from normal or b-cll patients demonstrated similar lytic activity toward k562 and raji cells. growth in b-cll serum did not reduce their lytic potential. thus, the altered phenotype and growth exhibited by b-cll lak cells and normal lak cells grown in b-cll serum does not lead to abnormalities in their cytolytic functions. we propose instead that the predominance of nk-like cells in b-cll lak cell populations and the presence of an nk cell-like growth factor in b-cll serum reflect abnormalities related to nk cell-mediated b-cell regulation; ie, either inhibition of normal b-cell growth and/or growth stimulation of the leukemic clone in b-cll.
case-control study of coronary heart disease risk factors in the elderly. we undertook a case-control study utilizing a large coronary arteriography database to determine if traditional cardiovascular risk factors are as predictive of the presence of angiographically-proven coronary artery disease (cad) in elderly patients as in younger patients. among the patients aged 65 years or more, there were 2120 cases and 193 controls, while for the patients aged 35-49 years there were 1493 cases and 707 controls. odds ratios obtained from logistic regression indicated that age, male sex, diabetes, cigarette smoking, hypertension, total cholesterol and left ventricular hypertrophy were all significant risk factors for cad in both age groups, although the odds ratios tended to be somewhat lower in the elderly. logistic regression analysis for gender subgroups generally revealed similar findings when compared with the combined (males + females) age groups, although power was limited for the subgroup of elderly males which had few controls. we conclude that most of the traditional cardiovascular risk factors which have been described as correlated with the presence of cad in younger populations are also correlated with angiographically-proven cad in older patients.
effect of morphine on growth of metastatic colon cancer in vivo. control of colon cancer depends, in part, on intact immune defense mechanisms. since opiates are known to affect some components of immune function, this study was conducted to determine the effect of high-dose subcutaneous morphine sulfate and of low-dose intrathecal morphine on the postoperative growth of metastatic colon cancer. five groups of 15 fischer 344 rats were given intraportal injections of colon cancer cells as follows: group 1, control; group 2, daily subcutaneous injections of 20-mg/kg morphine the day before and for 2 days after colon cancer cell inoculation; group 3, daily subcutaneous injections of saline; group 4, daily intrathecal injections of 20 micrograms of morphine; and group 5, daily intrathecal injections of saline. there was a significant decrease in the hepatic tumor burden in group 2 compared with groups 1 and 3 and a significant increase in the hepatic tumor burden in groups 4 and 5 compared with group 1. this study demonstrates that intermittent injections of a narcotic may decrease the growth of tumor cells that gain access to the circulation during a surgical procedure. in addition, the results support the concept that tumor cells entering the circulation during a vulnerable period of postoperative immunosuppression are more likely to survive as metastatic tumor.
elevated plasma aluminum levels in normal infants receiving antacids containing aluminum. aluminum toxicity is a documented cause of encephalopathy, anemia, and osteomalacia. excretion is primarily renal; therefore, patients with renal insufficiency are at risk for aluminum accumulation and toxicity. this has been demonstrated in uremic children treated with aluminum-containing antacids. the purpose of this study was to determine whether plasma aluminum levels were elevated in infants with normal renal function during prolonged aluminum-containing antacid use. ten study infants (mean age = 5.8 months), who had been receiving antacids for at least 1 week, were compared with 16 control infants (mean age = 9.8 months) not receiving antacids. the study patients consumed 123 +/- 16 mg/kg per day (mean +/- sem) of elemental aluminum for an average of 4.7 weeks. their plasma aluminum level (37.2 +/- 7.13 micrograms/l) was significantly greater than that of the control group (4.13 +/- 0.66 micrograms/l) (p less than .005). it is concluded that plasma aluminum levels may become elevated in infants with normal renal function who are consuming high doses of aluminum-containing antacids. the safety of antacids containing aluminum should not be assumed and they should be used judiciously in infants, with careful monitoring of the aluminum dose and plasma level.
intrapartum, intranasal cocaine use and acute fetal distress. a case report. intrapartum, intranasal cocaine was used for relief of labor pains by a healthy woman with an uncomplicated pregnancy. fetal hypoxemia and distress followed the event. a causal relationship between the intrapartum use of cocaine and the fetal distress was postulated. cocaine abusers could benefit from hospitalization early in labor for close surveillance and monitoring, thus avoiding exposure to cocaine and its unpredictable systemic effects.
hypocalcemia and hypercalcitoninemia in critically ill children. to study ca metabolism in critically ill children, we measured ionized ca (ca2+), parathyroid hormone (pth), calcitonin, 25 hydroxycholecalciferol (25[oh] d3), 1-25 dihydroxycholecalciferol (1-25[oh]2d3, and gastrin levels in critically ill children and in healthy controls. patients were considered hypocalcemic if ca2+ was less than 1.1 mmol/l. six (14%) of 45 patients were hypocalcemic. five hypocalcemic patients were studied and were found to have higher calcitonin levels than normocalcemic patients and healthy controls and higher pth levels than healthy controls. 25(oh)d3 and 1-25(oh)2d3 were not significantly different in the three groups of patients. gastrin levels were low in critically ill patients, whether or not they were hypocalcemic. we conclude that hypocalcemia occurs frequently in critically ill children. it is associated with raised levels of calcitonin and pth. the mechanism for the increase in calcitonin is unknown.
thromboxane a2 biosynthesis in acute asthma and after antigen challenge. thromboxane a2 is a potent bronchial smooth muscle spasmogen in vitro, and it has been implicated in airway inflammation and in the genesis of bronchial hyperresponsiveness in asthma. we have examined the urinary excretion of a variety of products derived from thromboxane a2 (thromboxane b2, 2,3-dinor, and 11-dehydro-thromboxane b2) and prostacyclin (6-oxo-pgf1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-6-oxo-pgf1 alpha) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in patients admitted acutely to hospital with severe asthma and in atopic volunteers after bronchial antigen challenge. urinary excretion of all thromboxane-derived products was markedly increased in a number of patients with severe acute asthma compared with that in a nonsmoking control population, in some cases approaching those previously described in myocardial infarction: txb2, 31.6 +/- 12.0 versus 6.5 +/- 0.9; 2,3-dinor-txb2, 79.0 +/- 19.2 versus 29.5 +/- 2.7; and 11-dehydro-txb2, 234.3 +/- 65.3 versus 25.0 +/- 2.1 ng/mmol creatinine (p less than 0.001). urinary prostacyclin-derived products were also significantly raised in acute asthma. in contrast, after inhaled allergen challenge in atopic volunteers, which caused significant bronchoconstriction, urinary excretion of thromboxane-derived products was not significantly elevated: txb2, 5.6 +/- 1.1 versus 5.7 +/- 1.0; 2,3-dinor-txb2, 41.2 +/- 12.5 versus 28.5 +/- 6.9; and 11-dehydro-txb2, 69.8 +/- 17.6 versus 39.7 +/- 11.2 ng/mmol creatinine. in a separate experiment, less than 2% of exogenously administered txb2 to the airway appeared as urinary thromboxane-derived products, suggesting that production of greater than or equal to 1 microgram of txa2 in vivo would be required to increase urinary thromboxane excretion twofold.
cerebral atrophy in habitual cocaine abusers: a planimetric ct study. we compared cranial cts of 35 habitual cocaine abusers, 16 self-reported 1st-time users, and 54 headache patients using linear planimetric measures. all patients met the following criteria: age 20 to 40 years, no polydrug abuse (including alcohol), hiv seronegativity, normal albumin level, and no history of any other neurologic disease. the sex ratios and ages were not significantly different in the 3 groups. the planimetric measurements and calculated indices of cerebral atrophy were significantly different in the habitual cocaine abusers compared with the 2 other groups of patients. there were no differences between 1st-time cocaine users and controls. among the habitual cocaine abusers there was a positive correlation between the approximate duration of cocaine abuse and the calculated atrophy indices. the findings suggest that cerebral atrophy develops in chronic cocaine abusers, and the severity correlates with the duration of abuse.
melanosis of the esophagus. an endoscopic, histochemical, and ultrastructural study. endoscopic, histological, and ultrastructural features of 21 cases of esophageal melanosis are described. these cases were detected during 1000 consecutive routine upper gastrointestinal endoscopies. staining characteristics and ultrastructure of the pigment contained in the endoscopically visible lesions were found to be similar to those of true melanin.
hyponatraemia in patients with cirrhosis. hyponatraemia occurs in nearly half of patients in hospital with cirrhosis and ascites, and is due to the excessive retention of free water which results from the kidney's inability to excrete it normally. the morbidity and mortality associated with hyponatraemia is largely attributable to central nervous system disturbances. the degree to which brain water content increases depends on the duration of hyponatraemia and on compensatory mechanisms. altered steroid and peptide hormones in cirrhotic patients may contribute to the development of hyponatraemic encephalopathy, symptoms of which overlap with hepatic encephalopathy and uraemia. the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis is unrelated to the rate of correction of hyponatraemia. the appearance of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic patients, long regarded as a poor prognostic sign, may be a function of unrecognized underlying impaired renal function. therapy for hyponatraemia remains suboptimal.
ocular motor abnormalities from head trauma. head injuries cause the hospitalization of 200-300 persons per 100,000 population per year. ophthalmologists provide diagnostic and therapeutic care to those trauma victims with damage to the globe, optic nerve, orbit, and ocular motor system. eye movements can be affected by damage at any level of the central nervous system or peripheral motor unit. comprehensive ocular motor assessment of the trauma patient can substantially contribute to the understanding of the patient's injury, recovery, and rehabilitation. this review examines all aspects of head and face trauma that can lead to ocular motility disturbances.
genetic determination of cytomegalovirus-induced and age-related cardiopathy in inbred mice. characterization of infiltrating cells. carditis developed 7 days after the administration of murine cytomegalovirus to neonatal, young adult or aged mice of varying sensitivity to lethal infection with this virus. the inflammation persisted for up to 80 days, but infected myocardial cells were rare and were not seen after day 10. the inflammatory cells comprised macrophages (up to 30%) and t cells (up to 80%), with a high ratio of lyt2+ to l3t4+ cells throughout. although the h-2 genotype affects murine cytomegalovirus replication at the level of individual cells, and hence resistance to lethal infection, it did not determine resistance to cardiopathy per se. however balb/c, balb.b, and balb.k mice developed persistent myocarditis regardless of age at infection, and age-related cardiopathy was frequent and severe in infected and uninfected mice. b10 and b10.br mice also developed myocarditis after neonatal infection, but inflammation resolved rapidly after adult infection and age-related cardiopathy was correspondingly mild. c3h mice exhibited minimal carditis after neonatal or adult infection. however neonatal infection appears to accelerate age-related cardiopathy, which is severe in retired breeders of this strain.
cartilage removal prior to skin grafting in the triangular fossa, antihelix, and concha of the ear. skin grafting onto a large area of exposed ear cartilage with irregular contours poses an increased risk of inadequate re-establishment of circulation. removal of cartilage not needed for structural support before grafting following mohs surgery on the triangular fossa, antihelix, and concha of the ear decreases the risk of recurrence of the carcinoma, and increases the chances for survival of the graft.
circadian rhythm of heart rate variability after acute myocardial infarction and its influence on the prognostic value of heart rate variability. this study examined heart rate (hr) variability in patients surviving acute myocardial infarction (ami) to find the optimum time and duration of recording of the ambulatory electrocardiogram for the prediction of the risk of sudden cardiac death, or serious arrhythmic events, or both. twenty patients (group i) who initially survived an ami but later experienced serious events (death or symptomatic sustained ventricular tachycardia) during a 6-month follow-up were compared with 20 patients (group ii) who remained free of complications for greater than 6 months after discharge. groups i and ii were matched with regard to age, gender, infarct site, ejection fraction, and beta-blocker treatment. hr variability was assessed in the 24-hour electrocardiograms recorded during the first 2 weeks after an ami and in various portions of the complete 24-hour recording, with both the beginning and the length of the analyzed portion varied by 20 minutes (a total of 5,113 possibilities). the maximum reduction of hr variability in group i patients was systematically found when assessing hr variability in recordings starting approximately at 6 a.m. and lasting for approximately 8 hours. in the low-risk patient, the diurnal rhythm of hr variability is more marked than in the high-risk patient and the long-term components of hr variability due to the diurnal variation must be included in the measurement of hr variability when using it as a long-term predictor of risk from arrhythmic events after an ami.
tanning salons: an area survey of proprietors' knowledge of risks and precautions. an area survey of tanning salon proprietors was conducted in a medium-sized midwestern city. proprietors reported they were in compliance with federal safety regulations, but not all had age, frequency, or duration restrictions. similarly, proprietors were not uniformly informing patrons of potential tanning hazards, including the possibility of skin cancer, and were not knowledgeable about the risk and benefits of tanning. some establishments reported selling psoralens to patrons to enhance tanning. more explicit guidelines regarding the use of tanning equipment and more accurate consumer information are needed.
treatment of obstructive pneumatosis coli with endoscopic sclerotherapy: report of a case. the case of an 86-year-old man with cardiac and pulmonary failure, in whom pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis caused segmental obstruction of the sigmoid colon is described. the patient was treated with endoscopic puncture and sclerotherapy of the cyst walls in four sessions, giving endoscopic and radiologic regress of the lesions and symptomatic relief.
subtrochanteric fractures treated with interlocking nailing. in a prospective study of 31 subtrochanteric fractures treated with grosse-kempf interlocking nails with a followup period of at least 1 year, there was a 87.1% (27/31) union rate, and a union period of 4.2 +/- 1.8 months. knee range of motion in 28 acute traumatic cases was on average 127.5 +/- 23.0 degrees. the significant complications included: nail breakage, 3.2% (1/31); nonunion without nail breakage, 9.7% (3/31); neglected femoral fracture with malunion, 3.2% (1/31). the interlocking nailing has the advantages of: a) closed method, b) weight-sharing principle, c) shortening prevention, d) non-rigid fixation. from the theoretical and clinical comparison among the various implants, we conclude that closed interlocking nailing is one of the better instruments for subtrochanteric fracture treatment, and moreover, the most reasonable of all. however, for the higher level subtrochanteric fractures, reconstruction-style locking nails should be chosen.
extensor tendon rupture after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid positive ulnar variance. rupture of the extensor tendon after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid, positive ulnar variance is uncommon. eight cases were seen in the last five years. they included five men and three women, whose ages ranged from 54 to 82 years (average, 70 years). in all the cases, roentgenograms revealed osteoarthrotic changes in the wrist and dorsal subluxation or dislocation of the ulnar heads. seven cases had operations. friction with the dorsally subluxated or dislocated ulnar head and the osteophytes surrounding it caused these tendons to rupture. it was impossible to use end-to-end sutures, so tendon transfers or tendon grafts were performed. the patients were evaluated one to four years after surgery. three patients complained of some disability in their daily lives, notably, limited flexion of their fingers. it is important that during surgery the reconstructed tendons should not be strained excessively.
outcomes of pregnancy in a national sample of resident physicians background. physically demanding, highly stressful work during pregnancy has been reported to cause a variety of adverse outcomes. it has been difficult, however, to separate the effects of work from those of socioeconomic status. methods. by means of a national questionnaire-based survey, we studied the outcomes of pregnancy during residency for 4412 women who graduated from medical school in 1985 and for the wives of 4236 of their male classmates, who served as controls. results. the rate of response to our survey was 87 percent (4412 of 5079) for the women residents and 85 percent (4236 of 4968) for the wives of the male residents. there were no significant differences in the proportion of pregnancies ending in miscarriage (13.8 percent for residents vs. 11.8 percent for their classmates' wives, p = 0.12), ectopic gestations (0.5 percent vs. 0.8 percent, p = 0.69), and stillbirths (0.2 percent vs. 0.5 percent, p = 0.20). there were 989 women residents and 1238 residents' wives whose first pregnancy during residency resulted in the live birth of a singleton infant. although during each trimester the women residents worked many more hours than the wives of the male residents, the frequency of preterm births (less than 37 weeks' gestation) was similar: 6.5 percent for residents and 6.0 percent for residents' wives (odds ratio = 1.1; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.7 to 1.5). infants who were small for gestational age (with birth weights less than the 10th percentile for gestational age) were born to 5.3 percent of the residents and 5.8 percent of the residents' wives (odds ratio = 0.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.6 to 1.3). adjustment for factors that differed between the women residents and the wives of male residents resulted in odds ratios of 1.2 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.8 to 1.7) for preterm delivery and 0.9 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.6 to 1.3) for the delivery of an infant who was small for gestational age. however, the women residents more frequently reported having had preterm labor (11 percent vs. 6 percent), but not preterm delivery (6.5 percent vs. 6.0 percent); preeclampsia was also more common among the women residents (8.8 percent vs. 3.5 percent). conclusions. these results suggest that working long hours in a stressful occupation has little effect on the outcome of pregnancy in an otherwise healthy population of high socioeconomic status.
high output failure in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy: a comparative study with dilated cardiomyopathy. although few studies have reported on relatively preserved ventricular function in patient with peripartum cardiomyopathy, the condition is usually believed to have the typical low-output congestive hemodynamic pattern of the dilated congestive cardiomyopathies. two groups of patients, 14 with peripartum cardiomyopathy and 12 with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy who were matched for gender and age, were studied. they had normal blood pressure and similar new york heart association functional class, nutritional status, thyroid function and routine laboratory evaluation. all patients were catheterized during stable in-hospital compensation of heart failure, which was achieved by bed rest, sodium restriction, and administration of digoxin and diuretics long (more than 3 months) after delivery. significant differences (p less than 0.05) between patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy and those with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy were observed in regard to: (1) cardiac index: 3.34 +/- 1.36 l/min/m2 versus 2.24 +/- 0.72 l/min/m2, (2) systemic vascular resistance: 1713 +/- 567 dynes.sec.cm-5 versus 2194 +/- 603 dynes.sec.cm-5, (3) right ventricular stroke work index: 8.6 +/- 4.2 g.m/m2 versus 14.8 +/- 8.2 g.m/m2 in the peripartum cardiomyopathy and the dilated congestive cardiomyopathy groups, respectively. three of the patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy had resting cardiac index values that were even higher than the normal upper limit for our laboratory (4.5 l/min/m2): 4.80, 5.70, and 5.63 l/min/m2. they also had nearly normal left ventricular ejection fractions: 0.68, 0.41, and 0.51, respectively. these results indicate that, unlike the common dilated cardiomyopathy, the hemodynamic pattern in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy is not homogeneous, and some patients have high-output failure and near normal left ventricular function.
auras and subclinical seizures: characteristics and prognostic significance. the characteristics and prognostic significance of subclinical seizures and independent auras were studied in 40 patients with partial epilepsy who had long-term electroencephalographic (eeg) monitoring with intracranial electrodes. focal, restricted subclinical seizures were noted in 23 patients, and 11 patients experienced auras that were accompanied by ictal eeg discharges. auras and subclinical seizures usually were identical in eeg appearance, but were distributed differently among patients. the subclinical seizures and auras usually had the same origin as complex partial seizures, but did not always reliably indicate complex partial seizure origin. subclinical seizures and auras were of favorable prognostic significance for patients undergoing temporal lobectomy. a majority (greater than 80%) of individuals with subclinical seizures and auras were free of complex partial seizures after surgery, whereas a minority (29%) of patients without subclinical seizures and auras became free of complex partial seizures.
philadelphia chromosome and monosomy 7 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a pediatric oncology group study. during an 8-year period, 3,638 children from institutions of the pediatric oncology group (pog) were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). fifty-seven patients had philadelphia chromosome-positive (ph1) all. blast cells obtained at diagnosis from 13 of these 57 cases (23%) were also found to have partial or complete monosomy 7 (-7). this subgroup of children with ph1/-7 all was comprised primarily of older males with early b-lineage all. bone marrow specimens from six ph1/-7 patients were studied further using the polymerase chain reaction and primers that flank the all, and chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoints to determine the molecular characteristic of the 9;22 translocation. rearrangements were detected in rna from bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells of six patients, although four were in hematologic remission at the time of the analysis. five cases showed the all breakpoint, while one child with ph1/-7 showed the chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoint. the induction failure rate was much higher in this subgroup (31%) as compared with ph1-negative cases, and the projected duration of event-free survival reflected the aggressive nature of this subgroup because no children are projected to remain in remission at 2 years. all with both the 9;22 translocation and -7 appears to represent a unique and previously undescribed subgroup of childhood all associated with a particularly adverse outcome. leukemic transformation in such patients may involve the interaction of a dominant oncogene (ph1) and a tumor suppressor gene (-7).
non-invasive monitoring of finger arterial pressure in patients with raynaud's phenomenon: effects of exposure to cold. we studied the effects of exposure to cold on finger arterial pressure (fap) measured by a finger arterial pressure monitor in 15 patients with raynaud's phenomenon and in 15 healthy volunteers. the cold exposure induced vasoconstriction of the peripheral vascular bed as judged by the plethysmograph of a pulse oximeter and had marked effects on fap values compared with upper arm arterial pressure. immediately after the cold exposure, fap decreased significantly (p less than or equal to 0.01) in both groups. however, during the subsequent 20 min, fap values increased in relation to upper arm pressure. finally, fap values were greater than upper arm pressure in the control individuals, but not in patients with raynaud's phenomenon. these results have implications for non-invasive monitoring of arterial pressure by the finger pressure device. clinically, significant problems may arise in the monitoring of fap in patients with a systemic connective tissue disease affecting peripheral circulation.
left superior vena cava: a pitfall in computed tomographic diagnosis with surgical implications. we report 2 cases in which computed tomography of the mediastinum demonstrated an abnormality originally misinterpreted as lymphadenopathy but subsequently shown to represent a left superior vena cava. misinterpretation may result in errors in optimum treatment and may complicate surgical exploration of the mediastinum. these 2 cases are presented to remind radiologists and surgeons of the possibility of this unusual anatomy.
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman. the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed.
pterygia: single-fraction postoperative beta irradiation. a retrospective evaluation was performed with records of 128 patients with 146 eyes that underwent applications of strontium-90 after pterygium excisions performed between 1982 and 1988. with a median follow-up of 13 months, 135 eyes were evaluable. most pterygia (127 of 135) were treated with a single postoperative application of sr-90 that delivered 3,000 cgy of beta radiation in one fraction. the actuarial freedom from relapse was 87%; all recurrences occurred within the first 18 months, and 46% of these within the first 3 months. of the 13 recurrences, 10 have been re-treated with surgery and a second course of beta irradiation with excellent results. all eight eyes for which follow-up was available had no evidence of disease. the ultimate control rate was 96.3% for the series. correlation of various treatment parameters, including age, bilaterality, prior recurrence, and interval from surgery to irradiation, was performed, and no statistically significant difference was seen. no serious complications have developed. transient conjunctivitis and photophobia were almost universally seen, with five cases lasting beyond 5 months. the authors conclude that a single application of sr-90 after surgery is effective and safe in managing pterygia.
interruption of professional and home activity after laparoscopic cholecystectomy among french and american patients. with a laparoscopic approach, patients can undergo cholecystectomy with a shorter hospitalization, minimal pain, and quicker recovery. it has not been demonstrated, however, that patients actually return to work after laparoscopic cholecystectomy faster than the traditional 4- to 6-week absence from work after a standard open procedure. a survey of 104 french and 84 american patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy revealed that postoperative discomfort was completely resolved in 2 weeks in 73% of french and 93% of american patients. all but 11 french and 5 american patients were back to normal home activities by 2 weeks after the operation. of the 35 american and 40 french patients who had professional activity outside the home, 63% and 25%, respectively, returned to work within 14 days. five (14%) of the american patients and 12 (30%) of the french patients returned to work 4 weeks or more after the operation. the amount of physical activity on the job correlated with the period off work, but, interestingly, at least six patients with very hard physical activity at work (including construction workers) were able to return to full work activity within 1 week. these data suggest that early return to work is possible and that pain resolves quickly after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the economic benefit of having patients back on the job quickly, however, may be less than expected until cultural norms change with regard to leave of absence after major surgery.
intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses. a cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days. patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmhg of atmospheric pressure. after recovery of activity, pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmhg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time. distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site (p less than 0.001). two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmhg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmhg; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmhg. four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmhg and a peak of 45 mmhg. each contraction persisted for 15-20 min. intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence.
sudden death associated with undiagnosed graves' disease. hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone. we report a case of graves' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy, undiagnosed young female. this case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of graves' disease.
posterior interosseous nerve palsies. one hundred seventy patients with radial nerve disorders were reviewed at the louisiana state university medical center over a 15-year period. of these, 32 had involvement of the posterior interosseous nerve exclusively. findings included weak wrist extension with a radial drift, inability to extend the fingers, paralysis of thumb extension, and weak thumb abduction. causes included entrapment at the arcade of froshe (14 patients), laceration (6 patients), fracture (6 patients), compression or contusion (3 patients), and loss associated with tumor (3 patients). the ratio of men to women was 2:1, and the right arm was involved twice as often as the left. preoperative evaluation included physical examination, electrophysiological testing (electromyogram/nerve conduction velocity), and roentgenograms of the elbow and forearm. of the 30 patients (2 patients had bilateral lesions), 26 underwent operation. in the operative series, all 28 nerves had a function of grade 3 or more of a possible 5 after 4 years of follow-up. seventeen had achieved grade 4/5, and 7 had obtained grade 5/5. at operation, 23 nerves were found to be in continuity. fourteen lesions of nerves in continuity were associated with entrapment and, not unexpectedly, transmitted a nerve action potential with slowed conduction and low amplitude across the lesion. four nerves in continuity that had lesions caused by injury had nerve action potentials and were treated by neurolysis, and another 4 had no nerve action potentials and were treated by graft or suture repair. five injured nerves were not in continuity. two could be repaired by end-to-end suture, and 3 required graft repair. a large ganglion cyst involving the posterior interosseous nerve was also resected.
meningeal carcinomatosis in breast cancer. prognostic factors and influence of treatment. in 58 breast cancer patients with meningeal carcinomatosis (mc) pretreatment characteristics, clinical course, and response to treatment were evaluated. forty-four patients were uniformly treated with intraventricular chemotherapy. fourteen patients did not receive intraventricular treatment. in the intraventricularly treated group the median survival was 12 weeks. multivariate analysis of the pretreatment characteristics of the intraventricularly treated patients demonstrated a prognostic significance with respect to survival for age older than 55 years, lung metastases, cranial nerve involvement, cerebrospinal fluid (csf) glucose less than 2.5 mmol/l, and csf protein 0.51 to 1.0 g/l. based on the significance of these predicting factors a prognostic index (pi) identified four groups of patients with a median survival of 43 weeks, 22 weeks, 11 weeks, and 3 weeks, respectively. after 6 weeks of intraventricular treatment 22 patients showed a neurologic improvement or stabilization, and nine patients showed a worsening of the neurologic signs, whereas 13 patients (30%) had already died. the responders had a median additional survival of 5 months versus 1 month for nonresponders. no relation was found between survival and intensity of the intraventricular treatment after the first 6 weeks of treatment. almost all long survivors had also received systemic treatment for systemic disease, whereas most patients who died within 6 months did not receive systemic therapy. radiation therapy had no influence on the survival time. early death due to the intensive treatment occurred in three patients. in 11 of the 17 patients who survived more than 4 months an often seriously debilitating late neurotoxicity developed. the survival curve of the nonintraventricularly treated patients appeared to be essentially the same as the curve of the intraventricularly treated patients. using the same pi the predicted survival time was also the same as in the intraventricularly treated group. it is concluded that survival in mc from breast carcinoma may be more dependent on some pretreatment characteristics than on treatment intensity. on the basis of these pretreatment characteristics the survival time seems to be predictable. finally, late neurotoxicity due to aggressive treatment leads to impairment of the quality of life in more than 50% of the long survivors. the exact value of intraventricular and systemic therapy in patients with mc still has to be determined.
periapical lesions of mandibular bone: difficulties in early diagnostics. it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease. in this paper these problems are discussed, and some suggestions are made to overcome them. the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma, histiocytic lymphoma, and chronic osteomyelitis. the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women, all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling, diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone, uncertain response to treatment, and an unusual progress of the disease.
evaluation of in vitro bromodeoxyuridine labeling of breast carcinomas with the use of a commercial kit. the prognostic significance of s-phase fraction analyses of breast carcinomas has been reported by several investigators. the cell proliferation kit (amersham corporation, arlington heights, il), which uses in vitro bromodeoxyuridine (brdu) labeling to evaluate cell cycle kinetics without a flow cytometer or radioisotopes, simplifies this assay for the clinical-based laboratory by providing standardized reagents and recommended methods. this study was performed to determine whether data derived from its use were comparable to published s-phase data from the use of thymidine labeling, brdu, or other methods on breast carcinomas. primary infiltrating ductal carcinomas (n = 142) and primary lobular carcinomas (n = 6) showed mean and median brdu labeling of 4.63% and 3%, 1.3% and 1%, respectively, with a range of 0-28%. benign lesions always had less than 3% brdu uptake (n = 21). estrogen receptor (er) and progesterone receptor (pr) status correlated with brdu labeling (p less than 0.05), with the highest s-phase fractions in er- and pr-negative tumors. correlations between brdu uptake and histologic tumor type or size were observed. significant correlations between brdu uptake and lymph node status, patient age, or histologic tumor grade were not observed. s-phase studies of breast carcinomas using other techniques have shown similar data, therefore, the cell proliferation kit appears to be a practical and useful method for in vitro s-phase analysis that allows concomitant histologic examination of the same tumor tissue sample.
recurrent cyanotic episodes with severe arterial hypoxaemia and intrapulmonary shunting: a mechanism for sudden death the pathophysiology of recurrent cyanotic episodes has been investigated in 51 infants and children. episodes began at a median age of 7 weeks (range 1 day to 22 months, 39 at less than 4 months). they were characterised by the rapidity of onset and progression of severe hypoxaemia with early loss of consciousness from cerebral hypoxia. the most common precipitating factor was a sudden naturally occurring stimulus from pain, fear, or anger. in uncontrolled trials, cyanotic episodes were reduced in frequency and severity by tetrabenazine (n = 15) and additional inspired oxygen (n = 10). eight patients died suddenly and unexpectedly (four during cyanotic episodes). twenty eight patients underwent physiological studies during cyanotic episodes. there was no evidence of seizure activity at the onset and although prolonged absence of inspiratory effort with continued expiratory efforts was common, breathing sometimes continued. episodes were not caused by upper airway obstruction and sometimes occurred during positive airway pressure ventilation. the rapidity of fall in arterial oxygen pressure and continued breathing suggested a right to left shunt of sudden onset. the results of contrast echocardiography and lung imaging studies confirmed that this was occurring within the lungs. these cyanotic episodes included both intrapulmonary shunting and prolonged expiratory apnoea. they are best explained by interactions between central sympathetic activity, brainstem control of respiration and vasomotor activity, reflexes arising from around and within the respiratory tract, and the matching of ventilation to perfusion in the lungs. they are a cause of sudden unexpected death in infancy and early childhood.
clentiazem reduces infarct size in rabbit middle cerebral artery occlusion. we assessed the value of pretreatment with clentiazem (8-chlorodiltiazem), a diltiazem derivative with cerebroselective properties, on the consequences of surgical occlusion of the middle cerebral artery via a transorbital approach in 38 rabbits. nineteen rabbits received 1.7 (n = 5), 5 (n = 8), or 15 (n = 6) mg/kg clentiazem orally four times a day for 24 hours before and 48 hours after occlusion. upon sacrifice, a segment of the right middle cerebral artery distal to the occlusion and a corresponding segment from the nonoccluded left middle cerebral artery were mounted on myographs for in vitro study of their reactivity to histamine, acetylcholine, serotonin, norepinephrine, and electrical stimulation of intramural sympathetic nerves. morphometric measurements of 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride-stained brain slices permitted us to estimate infarct volume. pretreatment with 1.7, 5, and 15 mg/kg clentiazem significantly reduced infarct volume (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01, and p less than 0.01, respectively). mean infarct volume of the 15 mg/kg-treated group was only 4% that of the untreated group. there were no postoperative deaths in any treated group compared with a death rate of 36% in the untreated group. mean values for vascular smooth muscle contractility to histamine and relaxation to acetylcholine were significantly enhanced in vessels from treated rabbits. these studies indicate that pretreatment with clentiazem offers cerebral protection and significantly reduces infarct volume as well as arterial wall damage beyond the occlusion.
ear involvement in the yellow nail syndrome. recognized features of the yellow nail syndrome include yellow nails, lymphedema, and pleural effusions. we report a patient with the additional feature of keratosis obturans, which may be a manifestation of this syndrome in the external ear.
incidence and properties of renal masses and asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma detected by abdominal ultrasonography. renal ultrasonography was performed in 45,905 adults, including 41,364 without any signs suggesting urinary tract malignancies, 1,667 with microscopic hematuria only and 2,874 with some signs of malignancy. renal lesions were found in 355 adults (0.858%) in the asymptomatic, 39 (2.3%) in the microscopic hematuria and 75 (2.6%) in the symptomatic groups, respectively. renal cell carcinoma was found in 35 (7.5%) lesions: 19 (5.4%) in the asymptomatic, none in the microscopic hematuria and 16 (21.3%) in the symptomatic groups. a total of 47 patients, including 12 other renal cell carcinoma patients transferred from related hospitals, was grouped into 28 without and 19 with symptoms. primary tumor size and clinical stages were significantly smaller and lower, respectively, in the asymptomatic group than in the symptomatic group. radical nephrectomy was performed in all but 2 asymptomatic patients. the 5-year survival rates after nephrectomy were 94.7 and 60.9% for the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups, respectively (p less than 0.01). the results indicate that ultrasonography is a useful tool to detect low stage asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma at low cost.
squamous carcinoma of the distal esophagus: a survival study. a survival study for squamous carcinomas of the distal esophagus treated by the southern california permanente medical group in the interval of 1954 to 1988 was undertaken. we found radiation therapy and surgery equally efficacious in terms of cure for patients without distant disease and performance status sufficient to tolerate treatment. we did not find survival benefit for patients treated with palliative surgery, and plan less invasive endoscopic means along with chemotherapy and radiation for palliation, reserving surgery for special circumstances.
primary hepatic carcinoid tumor. an electron microscopic and immunohistochemical study. a case of primary carcinoid tumor of the liver with striking morphologic and electron microscopic features is reported. conventional histologic examination showed a prominent paranuclear clear zone in numerous tumor cells. by electron microscopic examination, this clear zone corresponded to a paranuclear mass of intermediate filaments admixed with neurosecretory granules and other cytoplasmic organelles.
the failure of serial pneumatic cuff venous occlusion plethysmography to predict patients at risk for pulmonary emboli after trauma. over a three month period, attempts to perform serial pneumatic cuff venous occlusion plethysmography (vp) were carried out in 51 severely injured patients felt to be at risk for pulmonary embolus (pe). studies could not be performed in 25 of these patients due to the nature of their injuries. of the remaining 26 patients, two showed evidence of deep vein thrombosis (dvt). venography confirmed the diagnosis in only one of these patients. serial vp failed to predict pe in all five patients in whom it was diagnosed. this article concludes that serial vp is not an effective predictor of pe in these patients.
is it correct to correct? developmental milestones in 555 "normal" preterm infants compared with term infants. to determine whether correction for preterm birth should be applied during developmental assessment, we conducted a prospective national survey of very premature infants (born at less than 32 weeks of gestation); neurodevelopment in the first 2 years was studied with the dutch child health care developmental assessment. in 555 preterm children who had no evidence of handicap at 2 years of age, the age at which developmental milestones were reached was established. the results were compared with the results of the same assessment in dutch children born at term. during the first year, the development of the very premature children equaled the development of normal children when full correction was applied. at 2 years of age, development was equal to or better than normal children's development without correction. we conclude that full correction for prematurity should be applied in the first year to avoid overreferral for developmental stimulation, whereas at 2 years of age correction is not necessary.
assessment of right ventricular oxidative metabolism by positron emission tomography with c-11 acetate in aortic valve disease. evaluation of right ventricular (rv) oxidative metabolism is limited by the inability to easily determine oxygen extraction by the rv myocardium and the complex morphology of this ventricle. because left ventricular c-11 clearance rate constants closely correlate with myocardial oxygen consumption, it was postulated that c-11 clearance rate constants for the rv free wall should also reflect its oxygen consumption. therefore, rv c-11 clearance rate constants were compared with rv loading in 21 patients with aortic valve disease to assess the possible use of this technique for noninvasive evaluation of rv oxidative metabolism. rv free wall c-11 clearance rate constants correlated with the product of systolic pulmonary artery pressure and heart rate for all patients (r = 0.65, p = 0.002), but the relation was stronger if 2 patients with overt rv dysfunction were excluded (r = 0.83, p = 0.001). on the basis of mean pulmonary artery pressures, patients were stratified into subgroups with normal (group i, n = 8) and elevated (group ii, n = 13) pulmonary pressures and were compared with 10 normal control subjects. rv c-11 clearance rate constants were significantly higher in group ii than in group i and in normal control subjects (p less than 0.05). these data suggest that rv c-11 acetate clearance rate constants can provide noninvasive evaluation of rv oxidative metabolism. this technique may allow serial assessment of rv performance in various cardiac and pulmonary diseases, and particularly of changes associated with therapeutic interventions.
epstein-barr virus transformation of b lymphocytes from iga nephropathy patients and first-degree relatives results in increased immunoglobulin synthesis not restricted to iga. in order to study b-cell activation patterns independent of t-cell regulation in patients with iga nephropathy (igan), peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 67 patients with igan, 15 first-degree relatives of patients with familial disease, and 13 normal controls were transformed with epstein-barr virus (ebv). culture supernatants of these transformed cells were assayed for levels of igg, iga, and igm, and results obtained on the three populations were compared. ebv-transformed cells of igan patients, as well as the population of first-degree relatives, secreted significantly elevated levels of all three isotypes as compared with the normal controls. however, in comparing ratios of secreted isotypes, it was determined that more iga relative to igg and igm was synthesized by cells of these two populations as compared with the normal controls. our results imply that (1) the population of b cells susceptible to ebv activation is increased in igan patients; (2) this population of "activatable" b lymphocytes is polyclonal and not restricted to the iga class; and (3) even though there may be a primary b-cell abnormality in igan, an additional defect(s) is probably operative in the pathogenesis, since cells of clinically unaffected relatives behaved in a pattern similar to that of patients.
new horizons in management of hypothermia and frostbite injury. diagnosing hypothermia requires a high index of suspicion. restoring lost heat with careful attention to hemodynamics usually results in complete recovery. frostbite is best treated by physicians who are cognizant of the pathophysiology of cold injury. although alternative methods of intervention are being tested, rapid rewarming and anti-inflammatory agents are integral to treatment protocols.
a phase i clinical trial of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in pediatric patients with acute leukemia. to evaluate its toxicity and clinical efficacy in children with relapsed or refractory leukemia, we performed a phase i trial of 2-chloro-2'-deoxy-adenosine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine; 2-cda) given as a continuous 5-day infusion at doses of 3 to 10.7 mg/m2/d. in this study of 31 children with acute leukemia, the only dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression. at the highest dose level, three of seven patients developed fatal systemic bacterial or fungal infections. at dose levels above 6.2 mg/m2/d, significant oncolytic responses occurred in all patients. in addition, there was a significant correlation between both the responsiveness by cell type and dose of 2-cda, such that more oncolytic responses were noted in acute myeloid leukemia (aml) patients than acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) patients (p = .02). although this was a phase i trial in heavily pretreated patients with refractory disease, two aml patients treated at 5.2 and 10.7 mg/m2/d, respectively, had complete hematologic responses, and one patient treated at 10.7 mg/m2/d had a partial response. in addition, there was a dose-response relationship in all patients with improved cytoreduction of peripheral blast cells at higher doses of 2-cda. in vitro evaluation of 2-cda uptake and anabolism by leukemic blast cells from 22 patients demonstrated that 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (cld-amp) and 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine 5'-striphosphate (cldatp) reached concentrations close to steady-state levels within 1 hour. intracellular nucleotide disappearance rates were high with half-lives of 1.29 and 2.47 hours for cldamp and cldatp, respectively. this suggests that continuous infusion is necessary to maintain the desired plasma concentration. the results of this study confirm the antileukemic activity of 2-cda and the lack of prohibitive nonhematologic toxicity. phase ii trials in patients with aml and all are warranted.
sinus node-atrioventricular node isolation: long-term results with the "corridor" operation for atrial fibrillation the "corridor" operation is designed to restore sinus rhythm to patients with atrial fibrillation by electrically isolating the sinus node, a band of atrial tissue and the atrioventricular (av) node from the remaining atrial tissue. nine patients with drug-refractory atrial fibrillation underwent this operation; four patients had chronic atrial fibrillation and five had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; the mean duration of symptoms was 12 +/- 8 years. patient ages ranged from 25 to 68 years (mean 48 +/- 12). at preoperative electrophysiologic study, no patient had evidence of an accessory av pathway or av node reentry. sinus node recovery time could not be determined in five patients because of recurrent atrial fibrillation during or before programmed stimulation. at operation the corridor of atrial tissue connecting the sinus and av nodes was successfully isolated from the remaining left and right atrial tissue in all patients. one patient required early reoperation for recurrent atrial fibrillation before hospital discharge. at the predischarge electrophysiologic study, the corridor remained isolated in all patients except for one patient who had intermittent conduction between the corridor and excluded right atrium. one patient had nonsustained atrial fibrillation and one had atrial tachycardia evident in the corridor. atypical av node reentry of uncertain significance was induced in one other patient. over a total follow-up of 191 patient months (mean 21 +/- 20), seven patients remained free of atrial fibrillation. two patients had recurrent atrial fibrillation, which in one patient was effectively controlled by a single antiarrhythmic agent. a permanent pacemaker was implanted in four patients for sinus node dysfunction.
environmental risk factors in siblings with parkinson's disease. to investigate possible risk factors in parkinson's disease, we conducted a case-controlled study of 19 families having two or more siblings with parkinson's disease. demographic data were collected, including lifetime histories of places of residence; sources of drinking water; occupations, such as farming; and exposure to herbicides and pesticides. rural living and drinking well water, but not farming and herbicide exposure, were significantly increased in 38 parkinsonians compared with 38 normal control subjects. a comparison of parkinsonian siblings with siblings with essential tremor revealed no differences in any risk factors for the years of shared environment. these data suggest that living in a rural environment and drinking well water are risk factors for parkinson's disease and that the total life exposure to an environmental toxin may be more important than exposure in early life.
lipids, vascular disease, and dementia with advancing age. epidemiologic considerations. elevated plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men and women. it is still not clear, however, whether lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities continue to be risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly population. it is not even clear what normal lipid values are in the elderly, and whether diet or drug therapy should be advised on the basis of lipid values established in middle-aged populations. ischemic heart disease does remain the leading cause of death in the elderly, and there is now preliminary evidence from epidemiologic studies that relative elevations of levels of lipid and lipoprotein fractions in an elderly population might be associated with an independent and increased risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, and possibly dementia. intervention studies are about to begin that will assess various lipid-and lipoprotein-modifying therapies and their ability to reduce vascular disease risk in the elderly.
preventive therapy of first gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis: results of a controlled trial comparing propranolol, endoscopic sclerotherapy and placebo. propranolol and endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices are the two approaches currently used in prophylaxis of the first gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the cirrhotic patient. one hundred twenty-six cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices and no histories of bleeding were included in the trial regardless of the gravity of the cirrhosis or the size of the esophageal varices. patients with hepatocarcinomas or other cancers, clearly impossible follow-up, previous treatment for portal hypertension or contraindication to beta-blockers were excluded. after randomization, 43 patients received propranolol twice daily at a dose reducing the heart rate by 25%; 42 patients were treated with intravariceal and extravariceal injections of polidocanol; 41 control patients received vitamin k orally as placebo. the patients were seen at 3-mo intervals for 2 yr. on entry to the trial the three groups were comparable in terms of clinical and biological parameters, including size of esophageal varices (grade i = 51, grade ii = 54, grade iii = 17), child-pugh classification (a = 29, b = 61, c = 32) and the origin of cirrhosis (alcoholic in 79% of cases). twenty-four patients bled (two bled in the propranolol group, nine bled in the endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices group and 13 bled in the placebo group). actuarial estimates (kaplan-meier) of the time of onset of first bleeding showed that the differences were significant between propranolol and placebo (p less than 0.004) and between propranolol and sclerotherapy (p less than 0.03) but not between sclerotherapy and placebo.
skin exudate levels of interleukin 6, interleukin 1 and other cytokines in mycosis fungoides. the role of locally released cytokines in inducing lymphocyte activation and infiltration in the skin lesions of mycosis fungoides has been investigated. the levels of selected cytokines were measured in chamber fluid samples from lesional and control skin. biologically active interleukin 6 was significantly elevated in lesional samples and a recombinant form of this cytokine was shown to induce lymphocyte migration in an in vitro assay. biologically active interleukin 1 was detected in all control chamber fluid samples. significantly reduced levels of this cytokine were present in lesional samples, which may be the result of the release of preformed material. interleukin 2 and tumour necrosis factor activity, and gamma interferon and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor immunoreactivity, were not detectable in any of the samples. interleukins 1 and 6 may play a role in the pathogenesis of the lesional lymphocyte infiltrates in mycosis fungoides.
serum gastrin and blood glucose levels during halothane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia and strabismus surgery in children. the purpose of this study was to determine whether serum gastrin levels are increased by reflexogenic stimuli applied to the extrinsic muscles of the eye. serum gastrin and blood glucose concentrations were measured in ten normal children aged between 5 and 12 yr during general anaesthesia with halothane and nitrous oxide and during strabismus surgery. fasting basal concentrations of gastrin (33.6 +/- 14.8 pg.ml-1) and of glucose (4.43 +/- 0.72 mmol.l-1) were in the normal range of values for children. intravenous atropine (0.01 mg.kg-1), general anaesthesia with halothane in nitrous oxide and oxygen by mask for three minutes, tracheal intubation, extraocular muscle stimulation and surgical stress did not cause any variation in the mean serum gastrin concentration. on the contrary, tracheal intubation and surgical stress increased blood glucose concentrations (p less than 0.05). there was no difference in the serum gastrin levels after extraocular muscle stimulation between children with positive or negative oculocardiac reflexes (44.5 +/- 16.7 pg.ml-1 vs 38 +/- 14.7 pg.ml-1, respectively). the incidence of vomiting predischarge was 60 per cent. serum gastrin levels did not differ between children who vomited and children who did not (44.3 +/- 18.5 pg.ml-1 vs 47.1 +/- 16.9 pg.ml-1, respectively). vomiting after strabismus surgery cannot be attributed to high gastrin serum levels. consequently, it is unlikely that vomiting after strabismus surgery is linked to an "oculogastric reflex" with the vagus nerve as the efferent pathway.
serial neurobehavioral assessments in preterm infants. the purpose of this study was to compare serial neurobehavioral assessments in a sample of preterm infants with intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) to those of a group of unaffected preterm infants. of the 30 infants included in the study, 5 infants had a grade iii or iv/vi intraventricular hemorrhage. infants with ivh demonstrated more abnormalities in mental status and a cluster of abnormal neurologic findings (persistent ankle clonus, tremulousness, and brisk deep tendon reflexes). of the 30 infants, 20 infants were included in a brain metabolism study. infants who had experienced an ivh had significantly different brain metabolism findings, as measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (nmr). there was a significant correlation between one measure of brain metabolism (pcr/pi) and the neurobehavioral assessment rating for infants with ivh.
coronary sinus occlusion: effect on ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and reactive hyperemia. pressure-controlled intermittent coronary sinus occlusion (picso) has been shown to reduce experimental infarct size. to examine the role of picso in limiting the consequences of brief ischemia on left ventricular function, we studied the effect of picso in nine open-chest anesthetized dogs. picso was performed using a pump-inflated, balloon-tipped catheter in the coronary sinus until coronary sinus occlusion pressure reached a plateau (10 +/- 3 seconds). the balloon was then rapidly deflated (2 seconds) and the cycle was repeated. regional left ventricular function in the ischemic zone was assessed by sonomicrometry. coronary blood flow was measured with a flow probe around the left anterior descending artery (lad) proximal to an occluding suture. measurements were obtained at baseline, during a 3-minute lad occlusion, and for 10 minutes of reperfusion. in an additional five dogs, this sequence was repeated during an infusion of adenosine at a dose that abolished reactive hyperemia following lad occlusion. the addition of picso beginning 15 minutes prior to ischemia and continuing throughout lad occlusion and reperfusion did not prevent, reduce, or shorten ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. picso uniformly blunted reactive hyperemia during reperfusion. however, picso also reduced coronary blood flow during maximal vasodilatation achieved by adenosine infusion prior to lad occlusion. therefore, it is likely that picso decreases reactive hyperemia due to mechanical factors arising from venous engorgement rather than by reducing the ischemic stimulus causing vasodilation.
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns. extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure, but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique. one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight, gestational age, age at initiation of ecmo, best blood gases before ecmo, number of hours on ecmo, renal failure, intracerebral hemorrhage, and long-distance air transport had on survival. infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo, with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values. intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs, with few survivors in either group. these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo, giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values, is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo, whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo. each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications.
insulin as a mitogenic factor: role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. evidence has been accumulating that insulin has actions that may promote the development of atherosclerosis. research has involved three broad areas: actions of insulin on cultured arterial cells, the effect of insulin on isolated artery preparations, and the development of lipid-containing lesions in the arteries of experimental animals. insulin, in concentrations similar to those found in physiologic conditions, stimulates proliferation of cultured arterial smooth muscle cells from a number of species, including humans. insulin also stimulates migration of smooth muscle cells. cholesterol synthesis and low-density lipoprotein interaction with its receptor in smooth muscle cells are stimulated by insulin. insulin's mitogenic action appears to be mediated by the insulin-like growth factor receptor. endothelial cells cultured from large vessels are resistant to the actions of insulin, but hyperglycemia inhibits their proliferation. insulin deficiency protects animals from experimental atherosclerosis; this protection is lost with insulin treatment. insulin administration results in lipid-containing lesions in chickens and rats fed a normal diet, and in increased lipid synthesis in the arteries of pigs and dogs. isolated artery preparations from insulin-deficient or insulin-treated animals undergo lipid metabolism at a rate that correlates with the insulin concentrations in the donor animals. the biological actions of insulin (and glucose) on arterial tissue suggest that hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia may promote the development of atherosclerosis.
congenital tracheoesophageal fistula associated with carcinoma of the lung in an adult. a rare case of adult congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed. subsequently, at operation, large cell, undifferentiated carcinoma of the right middle lobe with extension to the right lobe and adherence to the diaphragm was documented. the diagnosis, surgical intervention, and 4-year follow-up are presented.
posterior nuchal cystic hygroma [published erratum appears in clin perinatol 1990 dec;17(4):viii] when cystic hygroma is detected antenatally, the prognosis is usually poor, and intrauterine or neonatal death are common. this seems especially true for turner syndrome (the largest etiologic group associated with cystic hygroma) and the lethal multiple pterygium syndromes. however, some fetuses with turner syndrome, and also with certain other diagnoses, had a good outcome, and further study of these conditions is required before more definite prognostic indicators and risk figures will be available. increasing numbers of syndromes are being reported in association with fetal cystic hygroma, and lymphedema may be a common element in their pathogenesis. mild, short-lived, or otherwise uncomplicated jugular lymphatic obstruction may be a cause of the neck webbing seen in the noonan, familial pterygium colli, and distichiasis-lymphedema syndromes. with earlier and more widespread fetal ultrasonography, and more sensitive techniques, a greater number of resolving fetal cases may be reported. this may clarify the natural history and provide prospective criteria for the conditions that have better prognoses. the associated conditions include autosomal dominant and recessive genetic traits. careful ultrasound study for other malformations, polyhydramnios and fetal growth parameters, a fetal karyotype, and, if appropriate, pathologic examination are required to determine the etiology and recurrence risk. the parents should be asked about exposure to alcohol or other agents and should be examined for signs of pterygium colli or noonan syndrome. if the decision is made to continue the pregnancy, and there is doubt about the natural history and prognosis, multi-disciplinary supervision should include social services, neonatology, pediatric surgery, cardiology, and genetics specialties when indicated.
transient renal acidification defect during acute infantile diarrhea: the role of urinary sodium. we studied urinary acidification daily during the hospital course of 16 infants with acute gastroenteritis and metabolic acidosis. urine ph value on admission was higher than 5.5 in 14 (87%) patients. we hypothesized that inappropriate urinary acidification was due to sodium deficiency and inadequate sodium delivery to the distal nephron. forty-one urinary samples were collected during metabolic acidosis. the mean ph of 24 urine samples with sodium concentration less than 10 mmol/l was significantly higher than the ph of 17 samples with sodium concentration greater than 10 mmol/l (6.04 +/- 0.06 vs 5.19 +/- 0.1; p less than 0.001). the urine ratios of titratable acid to creatinine and of total acidity to creatinine were significantly higher in urine samples containing more sodium (p less than 0.02), whereas the ammonium/creatinine ratio was not. after administration of furosemide or correction of the sodium deficit, appropriate acidification was observed. we conclude that impaired urinary acidification is frequently found during metabolic acidosis in infants with acute gastroenteritis and results from a sodium deficit rather than from transient distal renal tubular acidosis.
abnormal single motor unit behavior in the upper motor neuron syndrome. we studied the discharge pattern of single motor units (smus) in the left and right biceps muscles from a patient with nonspastic weakness of the left arm. detailed statistical analysis of the behavior of discharge patterns of 4 of 4 single motor units on the affected side showed abnormalities with characteristic features of an upper motor neuron lesion. five out of 5 single motor units recorded from the right biceps were normal. an upper motor neuron lesion affecting the left arm, predicted by our results, was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (mri), which showed a lesion in the right precentral gyrus. it appears that changes in single motor unit firing characteristics, caused by an upper motor neuron lesion, can be detected at a time when there is no evidence of increased "tone" and/or hyperreflexia (spasticity) in the affected extremity.
sexual behavior of a sample of females with epilepsy. a sample of 700 female epileptic outpatients was examined between 1985 and 1987. the incidence of psychosexual disorders was 18%. epileptic females with psychosexual disorders were compared with epileptic females without sexual disorders and with normal female controls on selected clinical and eeg parameters. epileptic females with sexual disorders showed: lower marriage rates, a longer duration of illness, sexually colored prodromata, predominance of partial complex seizures (83%) and a higher incidence of menstrual abnormalities. hyposexuality and exhibitionism were the psychosexual disorders most frequently noted. temporal lobe eeg abnormalities were significantly higher.
pressure-length loop area: its components analyzed during graded myocardial ischemia. the changes in total pressure-length loop area were compared with changes in effective shortening area, systolic lengthening area and postsystolic shortening area (defined with respect to end-diastolic and end-systolic lengths) of the pressure-length loop during myocardial ischemia in seven anesthetized dogs instrumented for measurement of left ventricular pressure and regional segmental wall motion (sonomicrometry) in the minor axis of the apical region of the left ventricle. ischemia was induced by gradual tightening of a micrometer-controlled snare around the left anterior descending coronary artery, which supplied the apical myocardium. data were obtained at normal flow, after critical constriction (loss of pulsatile coronary flow), mild ischemia (ischemia 1: onset of regional dysfunction, i.e., postsystolic shortening and mild hypokinesia) and moderate ischemia (ischemia 2: marked hypokinesia). at each stage, acute afterloading was performed by partially occluding the descending thoracic aorta. the pressure-length loops were analyzed in terms of four areas: total loop area, effective shortening area, postsystolic shortening area and systolic lengthening area. total loop area decreased only when marked hypokinesia was present (176 +/- 18.3 mm hg x mm at ischemia 2 versus 245.1 +/- 26.9 mm hg x mm at ischemia 1, p less than 0.05). however, effective shortening area (98.2 +/- 0.8% of total loop area at baseline; 93.8 +/- 2.4% at critical constriction; 76.3 +/- 7.2% at ischemia 1; 51.9 +/- 12.2% at ischemia 2) and postsystolic shortening area (1.8 +/- 0.8% of total loop area at baseline; 5.2 +/- 1.9% at critical constriction; 14.3 +/- 3/4% at ischemia 1; 23.8 +/- 5.1% at ischemia 2) changed significantly with each progressive stage of ischemia.
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine. we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine, the brachial plexus and related vessels. the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium, the sternoclavicular joint, and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle. we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results. its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia, surgical technique and postoperative care.
magnetic resonance imaging in motor neuron disease. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the brain was evaluated in 20 patients with motor neuron disease (mnd) and in a control group of 11 healthy people. bilateral increased signal areas of various sizes in the centrum semiovale, corona radiata, internal capsule, pedunculi of midbrain, pons, medulla and even in the frontal lobe, topographically related with the corticospinal tract, were found in 8 out of 20 patients. three out of 4 patients with progressive bulbar paralysis and 5 out of 11 cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis had abnormal mri. such mri abnormalities have neither been found in patients with progressive muscular atrophy nor in controls, suggesting that they may be the hallmark of pyramidal tract degeneration in motor neuron disease.
ascites after rupture of dissecting aortic aneurysm into the right atrium. we report successful repair of an aneurysmal aorta-right atrial fistula causing intractable ascites. the clamped "ascending aorta" was drained for mixed return after perfusion through the femoral vessels and opened during hypothermic arrest. return cannulation through the fistula permitted definitive repair.
human olfactory discrimination after unilateral frontal or temporal lobectomy. olfactory discrimination and detection was studied in 106 patients with unilateral cerebral excision in the right or left temporal lobe, right or left frontal lobe, left parietal lobe, or right frontal and temporal lobes, and in 20 normal control subjects. detection thresholds for n-butyl alcohol, measured separately in each nostril, did not differ across subject groups or across nostrils, thus excluding any primary sensory loss. the discrimination task involved monorhinal presentation of repairs of unfamiliar odorants, which the subjects judged as same or different in quality. the results showed a significant deficit in discrimination confined to the nostril ipsilateral to the lesion in patients with temporal lobe removals. patients with frontal lobe excisions were also impaired and, for patients with right frontal lesions including the orbital cortex, the impairment was found in both nostrils. patients with left parietal lesions did not demonstrate any significant deficits. normal subjects showed consistently better performance in the right than in the left nostril. the results are interpreted as reflecting the importance of the orbitofrontal cortex in olfactory discrimination. temporal lobe lesions may disrupt the input to the orbitofrontal cortex, thereby producing poorer performance. the nostril difference in the normal subjects, together with the birhinal impairment in patients with right orbitofrontal damage, suggest a relative advantage of the right orbital region in olfactory processing.
warm induction blood cardioplegia in the infant. a technique to avoid rapid cooling myocardial contracture. the use of profound hypothermia and total circulatory arrest for repair of heart defects in neonates usually involves a period of systemic and myocardial bypass cooling. rapid cooling of muscle (skeletal, smooth, and myocardial) can result in contracture through elevation of cytosolic calcium levels. the increased myocardial tone caused by cooling might render the heart more vulnerable to a subsequent period of cardioplegic ischemic arrest. infants may be more susceptible to contracture because their small body mass allows more rapid myocardial temperature change when prearrest bypass cooling is used. the influence of avoiding rapid myocardial cooling before induced cardioplegic arrest was analyzed in a group of infants weighing less than 6 kg at the time of open cardiac operation. myocardial ischemic arrest by warm (37 degrees c) induction blood cardioplegia was used in 57 infants and compared with results in 440 infants treated with standard blood cardioplegia. multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that patient diagnosis, weight, and age at operation were significant risk factors for operative mortality. the use of warm induction blood cardioplegia had a strongly positive independent effect on survival (p = 0.0003) for any patient weight, age, or diagnostic group. we recommend the avoidance of rapid myocardial cooling on bypass in all patients before induction of cardioplegic ischemic arrest.
repair of posterior left ventricular aneurysm in a six-year-old boy. left ventricular aneurysms and diverticula are rarely encountered in the pediatric age group. this paper reports a case of congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation in a 6-year-old boy with a large posterolateral left ventricular aneurysm. complete repair was successfully performed by excision of the aneurysm and dacron patch reconstruction of the left ventricular free wall. the patch extended onto the posterior annulus of the mitral valve, thus restoring the mitral valve to normal geometry and correcting the mitral insufficiency. the surgical literature on congenital cardiac diverticula and acquired aneurysms in children is reviewed and summarized.
the senior care study. the optimal use of medications in acutely ill older patients. geriatric assessment units have improved pharmacotherapy for their patients by decreasing the number of medications prescribed. the senior care study, a randomized controlled trial, compared a multidisciplinary-team approach to patient care to the standard medical practice of the institution. as a part of the trial, the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary team intervention in improving the use of medications was studied. study goals were to decrease medications used, decrease unnecessary medications, and improve medication choices in our acutely ill inpatient population. a pharmacist interviewed all experimental patients and patient records, and presented medication concerns and recommendations at a team conference. medications were counted on admission and on the third day, sixth week, and third month after randomization. medications were paired with patient problems. medication:problem pairs were judged as inappropriate choices if there were potential side effects that would affect patient function, and if better alternatives were available. the 215 control and 221 experimental patients in the study were similar in age, sex, place of origin, and number of medications on admission. experimental patients took fewer medications than controls on the third day (5.3 versus 5.9, p less than .05). experimental patients received fewer multiple unpaired medications (11% versus 19%, p less than .025) and fewer inappropriate medication choices (20% versus 37%, p less than .005). the results suggest that the team intervention was effective in improving pharmacotherapy in the acute-care setting.
prostate-specific antigen for staging prior to surgery and for early detection of recurrence after surgery. the exact usefulness of prostate-specific antigen for staging before radical prostatectomy is still unclear. perhaps the marker's most exciting feature is its value in detecting residual disease after radical prostatectomy. the author also discusses the technical questions in testing and interpretation.
abdominal aortic aneurysm with perianeurysmal fibrosis: experience from 11 swedish vascular centers. case records of 2026 patients operated on because of abdominal aortic aneurysms from 11 swedish vascular centers were reviewed and revealed 98 cases (4.8%) of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. also included in this case-control study was an analysis of a randomized group of 82 patients from the same centers who had noninflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms. four inflammatory aneurysms were ruptured, compared with 16 in the noninflammatory group (p less than 0.01). a higher proportion of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had symptoms that led to radiographic investigations. the median erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 39 mm versus 19 mm (26% of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had erythrocyte sedimentation rates greater than 50 mm; p less than 0.001), and the serum creatinine level was increased in 27 and 8 patients (p less than 0.01) in the inflammatory and noninflammatory groups, respectively. preoperative investigations revealed ureteral obstruction in 19 patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms, of whom 12 had preoperative nephrostomy or ureteral catheter placement. at operation, 20 additional patients exhibited fibrosis around one or both ureters. although ureterolysis was performed in 19 patients, preoperative and postoperative creatinine levels did not differ between these patients and the conservatively treated ones. duration of surgery (215 vs 218 minutes), intraoperative blood loss (2085 vs 2400 ml) and complications did not differ significantly between the groups. overall operative (30-day) mortality was equal (11% vs 12%) but was increased for patients undergoing elective surgery for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms (9% vs 0%; p = 0.03).
the risk of lymph node metastasis in colorectal polyps with invasive adenocarcinoma. one hundred fifty-one patients with colorectal polyps containing invasive adenocarcinoma treated by resection were studied to determine the incidence of lymph node metastasis and whether lymph node metastasis was related to the depth of invasion. other variables evaluated included size and configuration of the polyp, grade of adenocarcinoma, presence or absence of lymphovascular invasion, and degree of differentiation. in patients with sessile polyps, the incidence of lymph node metastasis was 10 percent. eighty percent of these lesions had lymphovascular invasion. for pedunculated polyps, the overall incidence of lymph node metastasis was 6 percent. however, there was no incidence of lymph node metastasis when the depth of invasion was limited to the head, neck, and stalk of the polyp (levels 1, 2, and 3). only when the depth of invasion reached to the base of the stalk (level 4) was the risk of lymph node metastasis high (27 percent). the other risk factors were not associated with lymph node metastasis. we concluded that the most significant risk factor for lymph node metastasis in patients with invasive carcinoma in a polyp was invasion into the submucosa of the bowel wall (level 4).
effects of fudr on primary-cultured colon carcinomas metastatic to the liver. hepatic arterial infusion of fluorodeoxyuridine (fudr) has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma of the liver. in this study, the direct cytotoxic effect of fudr was measured on ten metastatic and two primary-site colorectal carcinomas in a primary culture assay system. overall, clinically achievable concentrations of fudr (0.4 to 4 microm) induced partial cell kill in 75% of tumors, including a greater than 50% reduction in viable tumor cell number in only two tumors and less than 50% in the remaining seven. total cell kill was not observed in any tumor. three tumors were resistant to these fudr concentrations. tumor sensitivity correlated with the size of the tumor growth fraction. increasing the exposure time to fudr from 3 to 7 days approximately doubled the magnitude of the response. 5-flurouracil and cisplatin, at clinically achievable concentrations, were more toxic to metastatic tumor cells than fudr. because of the limited chemosensitivity of metastatic colorectal tumor cells to fudr in vitro, we postulate that other mechanisms besides direct cytotoxicity contribute to the clinical efficacy of fudr in vivo.
flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure in rural patients. in this study of flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure for rural, impoverished patients, 16% of asymptomatic patients who were screened by sigmoidoscopy and 23% of patients with a positive test for fecal occult blood were found to have a polyp or carcinoma. flexible sigmoidoscopy appears to be an important part of the physical examination of patients older than 50. it is a test that can readily be done by primary care physicians in a rural setting.
intracatheter streptokinase for recurrent peritonitis in capd. intracatheter streptokinase (sk) is advocated as effective treatment with minimal adverse effects in both recurrent bacterial peritonitis and catheter fibrin blockage in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) patients. we reviewed 35 instillations in 20 patients noting a high (86%) side effect profile consisting of fever, onset of turbid dialysis effluent and/or abdominal pain. sk probably releases fibrin clot containing bacteria, leukocytes and debris from the colonized catheter into the peritoneal cavity causing a "peritonitis-like syndrome" of 1 to 3 days duration. fungal peritonitis occurred after sk in 2 patients. failure of sk therapy was encountered in staphylococcus epidermidis infection (p less than 0.05 versus other organisms), which may be related to its protective capsular polysaccharide slime and ability to adhere to plastic prosthetic devices. sk, in this study, was useful treatment in relapsing bacterial peritonitis (50% overall cure) but failed to correct catheter malfunction.
capillary hemangioma of the maxilla. a report of two cases in which angiography and embolization were used. this article presents two clinical cases of capillary hemangiomas of the maxilla. such lesions are rare, as demonstrated by the review of the literature included in this article. the presentation, differential diagnosis, histopathology, management, and follow-up for each case are discussed. our rationale for approaching these types of lesions, as well as our opinion that microembolization should be considered as a first line approach to treatment, is presented.
pathological observations of intrahepatic peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers. iii. survey of necroinflammation and cystic dilatation. pathological changes and significance of intrahepatic peribiliary glands, hitherto poorly recognized intrahepatic elements, have been evaluated in our laboratory. in this report, we surveyed necroinflammatory and cystic changes of the peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers because these two changes coexisted frequently in the same liver. the necroinflammatory change was found in 228 livers (22.8%) and the cystic change in 202 livers (20.2%), and 103 cases showed both changes in the same liver. the necroinflammatory change was frequently found in intrahepatic cholangitis and extrahepatic biliary obstruction with bacterial infection, suggesting that biliary bacterial inflammation extends into these peribilary glands. this change was also frequent in systemic infection or septicemia without biliary bacterial infection, implying that the peribiliary glands were also damaged in such conditions without direct infection. the cystic change was frequent in livers with portal hypertension or obstruction, adult polycystic disease and necroinflammation of the glands, suggesting that the cystic change of the glands could occur as the result of the disturbance of intrahepatic circulation or as the result of inflammatory destruction of the glandular conduits. some of peribiliary cysts may be of congenital origin. dysfunction related to these pathological changes in the glands may diminish seromucous secretion and cause alterations in hepatic bile composition. the cystic change of the glands may retard bile flow by compressing bile duct lumina.
neonatal small bowel atresia, stenosis and segmental dilatation. in 8 years, 44 neonates were treated for small bowel atresia, stenosis or segmental dilatation by one surgical team. there was a single lesion in 30 infants and 14 had two or more sites of intestinal obstruction. associated gastrointestinal abnormalities were found in 23 (52 per cent) patients. resection of the atresia(s) and primary anastomosis were performed in 34 infants and staged procedures were carried out in ten patients with complicated lesions. patients undergoing staged procedures had a higher complication rate than those having primary repair (six out of ten and 11 out of 34 respectively). the overall initial survival rate was 93 per cent, rising to 100 per cent in those without associated anomalies or prenatal complications, but more than a quarter (27 per cent) of survivors have long-term disabilities.
disorders of esophageal motility. patients with esophageal motility disorders usually have dysphagia and many also have chest pain similar to angina. the diagnosis is suggested by the clinical presentation, and supporting evidence is often provided by contrast roentgenography. esophageal manometry is usually necessary to confirm the diagnosis. conservative therapy using pharmacologic agents is often useful as an initial trial, although many patients who continue to be symptomatic ultimately require surgical intervention.
successful treatment of an excimer laser-associated coronary artery perforation with the stack perfusion catheter. a 64-year-old woman underwent excimer laser angioplasty of the right coronary artery. the procedure was complicated by perforation, which was successfully managed without complication with a stack perfusion catheter. this report describes successful nonsurgical treatment of laser-induced coronary perforation and makes recommendations for avoiding this complication in other patients.
extracorporeal cholecystolithotripsy without oral chemolitholysis. one hundred thirty-six patients completed extracorporeal biliary lithotripsy (ebl) for symptomatic cholecystolithiasis. sonographic evidence of complete clearance of all stone fragments was the only criterion for treatment success, which occurred in 32 of the 71 patients (45%) followed up for 24 weeks and in 36 of the 59 patients (61%) followed up for 52 weeks. the authors' protocol varied from protocols of other researchers primarily in that no adjuvant chemolitholysis was used. however, the number of treatment sessions and total number of shock waves (a maximum of 4,000 shock waves per treatment session, 12,000 shock waves in a patient demonstrating no significant fragmentation, and 20,000 shock waves in a patient whose stones responded well to fragmentation) was higher than those in other reports. the results of treatment and complication rates in this study are comparable with those at centers using both shock-wave lithotripsy and chemotherapy. the authors conclude that ebl is developing into an important alternative to surgery, which was obviated in all patients with complete clearance of fragments from the gallbladder.
cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome. a variant of hepatorenal syndrome occurring in patients with chronic congestive heart failure following an episode of cardiogenic pulmonary edema, and in the absence of hypotension, is described. this was observed in 13 patients during an eleven-year period. the clinical picture is characterized by hepatic injury and functional renal impairment. increase of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase levels as high as 2100 iu; prolongation of prothrombin time; elevation of serum bilirubin, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and potassium levels; decrease in urinary sodium excretion; and a normal urinary sediment are the salient laboratory abnormalities of this entity. treated with conventional medication, the patients' course was fatal in 4 cases. when the splanchnic vasodilator dopamine was added to the patients' management, 5 of 9 patients recovered. cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome is a severe but potentially reversible complication of heart failure. the apparently beneficial effect of low-dose dopamine needs further evaluation.
complications in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: relationships with patient age. five hundred consecutive attempted lower limb angioplasties for ischaemic disease (370 patients, mean age 65.6 years, range 33-91 years) were reviewed. significant complications occurred in 44 cases (8.8%). nine patients (1.8%) underwent emergency surgery related to a complication. a further 12 patients (2.4%) underwent elective surgery related to a complication. in addition, four patients died within 30 days of the procedure; one following surgery performed because of a complication of angioplasty, one following a myocardial infarction, one following severe bleeding associated with subsequent thrombolytic therapy and one during emergency surgery related to a complication of angioplasty. a correlation was found between complication rate and age. this relationship was independent of the approach to, the position of, and the severity of the treated lesion. elderly patients are at increased risk of complication in lower limb angioplasty.
detection of active intraabdominal arterial hemorrhage: value of dynamic contrast-enhanced ct. contrast-enhanced dynamic ct was used prospectively to diagnose and locate the site of active arterial intraabdominal hemorrhage in 18 patients. active arterial extravasation was confirmed by angiography in five patients and by immediate surgery in nine. two patients not undergoing surgery or angiography required multiple blood transfusions to correct rapidly falling hematocrit due to a coagulopathy. one patient died of hypovolemic shock, and autopsy confirmed a large acute retroperitoneal hematoma. another patient with a splenic laceration and massive hemoperitoneum on ct had no active bleeding at the time of surgery, which was delayed 1 hr from the time of the ct. all patients were clinically thought to be hemodynamically stable and had systolic blood pressures greater than 110 mm hg at the time of ct. in seven patients, hypotension developed either during (two patients) or immediately after (five patients) ct scanning, necessitating either immediate surgery or angiographic embolization. contrast-enhanced dynamic ct is valuable in the diagnosis and localization of active arterial intraabdominal hemorrhage. identification of the anatomic site of this potentially life-threatening hemorrhage is critical in determining whether immediate laparotomy or angiographic embolization is the preferred method of treatment.
tumorigenic 3t3 cells maintain an alkaline intracellular ph under physiological conditions. one of the earliest events in the response of mammalian cells to mitogens is activation of na+/h+ exchange, which increases intracellular ph (phin) in the absence of hco3- or at external ph values below 7.2. the proliferative response can be blocked by preventing the phin increase; yet, the proliferative response cannot be stimulated by artificially raising phin with weak bases or high medium ph. these observations support the hypothesis that optimal phin is a necessary, but not sufficient, component of the proliferative-response sequence. this hypothesis has recently been challenged by the observation that transfection of nih 3t3 cells with yeast h(+)-atpase renders them tumorigenic. although previous measurements indicated that these transfected cells maintain a higher phin in the absence of hco3-, whether h(+)-atpase transfection raised the phin under physiologically relevant conditions was not known. the current report shows that these transfected cells do maintain a higher phin than control cells in the presence of hco3-, supporting the possibility that elevated phin is a proliferative trigger in situ. we also show that these cells are serum-independent for growth and that they glycolyze much more rapidly than phenotypically normal cells.
the significance of gastrinomas found in peripancreatic lymph nodes. a patient with zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) was found to have a solitary, extrapancreatic, extraintestinal gastrinoma in a peripancreatic lymph node. preoperative studies did not show the location of the tumor. after excision of the gastrinoma the patient's fasting serum gastrin level dropped from preoperative levels of 596 pg/ml to 120 pg/ml (normal, less than 200 pg/ml). fasting and stimulated gastrin levels have remained within the normal range at 18 months follow-up. this patient had previously undergone antrectomy, so it could not be determined if this tumor represented a primary lymph node gastrinoma or metastasis from an unrecognized tumor that may have been present in the resected stomach or duodenum. the outcome of this case confirms the previous reports that zes can be controlled after resection of gastrinomas that were contained within abdominal lymph nodes, even if a primary enteropancreatic tumor is not found. our results also support the use of an aggressive operative search aimed at eradication of the tumor in patients with zes even if preoperative localization studies fail to identify the site of the gastrinoma.
prognostic factors in craniofacial surgery. from 1979 to 1989, 21 patients underwent craniofacial resection for malignancies involving the anterior skull base. histologic types included 8 squamous cell carcinomas, 3 chondrosarcomas, 2 melanomas, 2 basal cell carcinomas, 2 adenocarcinomas, 2 poorly differentiated carcinomas, 1 malignant schwannoma, and 1 malignant hemangiopericytoma. survival was 57%, with follow-up of 41 months. a 50% complication rate included osteomyelitis, cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, meningitis, brain abscess, epidural abscess, and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. recurrent disease occurred in 9 patients (41%), the most reliable predictor being dural invasion indicated preoperatively by ct scan or at operation. patients demonstrating dural involvement (n = 9) had a 22% survival rate, while patients without (n = 12) had a survival rate of 83%. the impact of dural invasion on long-term survival is emphasized. though complications were frequent, long-term results were favorable.
supplemental emergent chest computed tomography in the management of blunt torso trauma. the efficacy of conventional chest x-ray (cxr) in comparison to chest computed tomography (cct) in acutely injured blunt trauma patients was examined. over a 21-month period, 50 patients underwent cxr and cct according to a standard protocol, and their films and records were reviewed retrospectively. hemo- and/or pneumothorax (hptx) was noted in 12 patients (five by cxr, 12 by cct). pulmonary contusion (pc) was identified in ten patients (four by cxr, ten by cct). three additional false positive pc were diagnosed by cxr. therapy changes based upon cct findings occurred in seven of seven hptx and five of six pc. the two imaging techniques were complementary in detecting fractures. atelectasis was a common cct finding (58% incidence). chest x-ray is less sensitive than chest computed tomography in the detection of hptx (42% vs. 100%) and pc (40% vs. 100%). emergent chest computed tomography is recommended in stable patients with: 1) blunt high-energy torso trauma, 2) "cross-body" injury pattern, and/or 3) a mechanism of injury suggestive of chest trauma.
saccular aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery. we report a series of 42 consecutive patients with aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery (aca). of these, 36 patients had one aneurysm, 5 had two aneurysms, and one had three aneurysms. thirty patients had a ruptured distal aca aneurysm; among these patients, the size of the aneurysm was less than 5 mm in diameter in 20, 6 to 10 mm in 7, and larger than 11 mm in 3. eighteen patients (42.9%) had multiple aneurysms, and distal aca aneurysms were responsible for a subarachnoid hemorrhage in 10. thirty-four patients underwent direct surgery, and 30 of these had excellent outcomes 3 months after surgery. the treatment of patients with distal aca aneurysms is often technically difficult, because of their broad neck configuration and the coexistence of other aneurysms. nevertheless, the present study emphasizes that distal aca aneurysms tend to bleed, irrespective of their size, and that excellent outcomes are obtainable by direct surgery.
does isoflurane lead to a higher incidence of myocardial infarction and perioperative death than enflurane in coronary artery surgery? a clinical study of 1178 patients to examine if the choice of volatile agents influences cardiac outcome in coronary artery surgery, 1178 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting without additional operations received enflurane (608) or isoflurane (570) as their primary anesthetics. the inspired concentration of volatile agent (administered with 50% nitrous oxide) was adjusted depending on the level of blood pressure at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. in addition to the volatile agent assigned, each patient received small doses of fentanyl at induction and before sternotomy (total 0.006-0.008 mg/kg). the groups did not differ in preoperative and surgical characteristics except for a more frequent history of renal dysfunction in patients given isoflurane. the rates of postoperative myocardial infarction, administration of positive inotropic agents at the time of weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, and in-hospital deaths in the enflurane and isoflurane groups were 1.8% and 4.0% (p less than 0.05), 4.9% and 8.1% (p less than 0.05%), and 0.3% and 2.1% (p less than 0.01), respectively. although the mechanism of the adverse effects of isoflurane could not be clarified in this study, these results demonstrate that the use of isoflurane could be inappropriate in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
the morbidity and financial impact of colostomy closure in trauma patients. during a 10-year period, 87 patients who had undergone elective colostomy closure at bellevue hospital were retrospectively reviewed in order to evaluate the morbidity of colostomy closure after traumatic injury and its financial impact. sixty-two per cent of the colostomies were in the left colon and 38% were right sided. the interval from the original injury to colostomy takedown varied from 20 to 465 days, with a mean of 144 days. the mean postoperative hospital stay for the entire group was 15.13 days at a cost of $13,995. there were no deaths and no anastomotic leaks in the entire series, but a morbidity rate of 25% ensued. small bowel obstruction was the most frequent significant complication, occurring in ten patients (11.5%) and resulting in a prolongation of hospital stay by 7 days at an additional cost of $6,500 per patient. one additional patient developed a subphrenic abscess which required operative drainage, necessitating an additional 24 days in the hospital at an increased cost of $22,200. other complications which did not prolong hospital stay included eight superficial wound infections, one transient respiratory failure, and two patients who returned at a later date with incisional hernias at the stoma site. the 25% morbidity encountered in this series suggests that colostomy closure is not a low-morbidity procedure and should be considered as an important factor favoring primary repair. coupled with the significant financial impact of both colostomy formation and takedown, ample justification exists for greater efforts in avoiding colostomy formation whenever feasible.
reversible hearing loss from cerebellopontine angle tumors. we report two patients who presented with a dramatic recovery from severe sensorineural hearing loss after total surgical removal of cerebellopontine angle tumors (meningioma and jugular foramen neurinoma). the factors that differentiate these "non-acoustic tumors" in relation to the prognosis for hearing are discussed. a surgical approach that maintains the labyrinthine structure and preserves the arachnoid membrane of the superior cerebellopontine angle cistern during tumor removal is stressed.
fine needle aspiration of pancreatic fluid collections. the complications of pancreatitis remain diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. patients with simple pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, pseudocyst, noninfected fluid collection or abscess may all have similar clinical pictures. during the last decade computerized tomography (ct)-guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections has been increasingly used as a diagnostic tool for pancreatic abscesses. this study reviewed the effectiveness of ct-guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections at our institution in terms of diagnostic accuracy, correlation with eventual outcome, and safety. charts of patients who underwent needle aspiration of de novo peripancreatic fluid collections over the past 2 years were reviewed. thirty-five patients underwent 50 aspirations. eleven patients (31%) had a positive aspirate culture; seven of these had a positive gram's stain. there were no false positive gram's stains but four false negatives. twenty-four (69%) patients had negative aspirate gram's stains and cultures. patients with positive aspirate cultures were treated with antibiotics only (2), ct-guided drain placement (7), or surgical drainage (3). the mortality related to each of these therapeutic modalities was 50 per cent, 0 per cent, and 33 per cent, respectively. of the 24 patients with negative aspirate cultures, five had no further treatment, 12 received antibiotics, and six underwent ct drain placement. all these patients survived. there was one false negative aspirate culture. this patient underwent delayed surgical drainage but expired. there were no major complications from ct-guided aspiration. ct-guided aspiration appears to be a safe and reliable method of diagnosing infection in peripancreatic fluid collections.
atracurium decay and the formation of laudanosine in humans. several groups of investigators have reported that the plasma concentrations of laudanosine, a metabolite of atracurium, are high immediately after administration of atracurium and thereafter decline. such a time profile of a metabolite in plasma is very unusual. the authors describe a model of atracurium decay and laudanosine disposition that satisfactorily explains these data. the model reveals the following: 1) each atracurium molecule is degraded into two of laudanosine; 2) the generation of laudanosine occurs through two processes--a rapid one, involving approximately 31% of the atracurium dose and proceeding with a half-life of 0.25 min, and a slower one, involving the residual 69% and proceeding with a half-life of 51 min; 3) atracurium degradation by hofmann elimination proceeds in the central and the noncentral compartments; 4) laudanosine formed from atracurium gains access to its central compartment and disappears from plasma in a biexponential pattern; 5) in cirrhotic patients, only 18% of the atracurium dose is degraded rapidly and laudanosine is disposed of more slowly. the authors propose that the rapid degradation of atracurium in plasma proceeds through a nucleophilic substitution reaction, with plasma nucleophiles substituting for the laudanosine moiety in atracurium. because both laudanosine moieties in atracurium are required to establish and sustain plasma concentrations of laudanosine, excretion of atracurium or its degradation through pathways not generating laudanosine must be small.
different plasma ionized calcium correlations with blood pressure in high and low renin normotensive adults in utah. plasma ionized calcium levels have been shown to be lower than normotensive control levels in hypertensive patients with low plasma renin activity and higher than control levels in hypertensive patients with high renin activity; they did not differ between high and low plasma renin activity groups of normotensive controls. to see if ionized calcium may have different relationships with blood pressure across renin categories in normotensive individuals, plasma ionized calcium was measured on 875 healthy individuals, ages 3 to 83, who had never been diagnosed as having hypertension. blood pressures were measured in the sitting, standing, and supine positions, along with pressures measured during two stress maneuvers: isometric handgrip and a 50 degrees tilt from a supine position. there was no linear correlation of blood pressure with plasma ionized calcium in the entire sample of youths or adults. however, after dividing the adults into tertiles based on plasma renin activity, there were significant inverse correlations between ionized calcium and systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the low renin group (r = -0.16 to -0.25, p less than or equal to .05), while the systolic blood pressure correlations were significantly positive in the high renin group (r = 0.14 to 0.22, p less than or equal to .05). adults with normal renin levels did not have any significant correlations of plasma ionized calcium with blood pressure. these confounding effects of renin were greater for systolic than for diastolic blood pressure. these correlations within renin tertiles occurred even though there were no differences in mean blood pressure, plasma ionized calcium, total plasma protein and plasma sodium across renin categories.
infection with hiv as a risk factor for adverse obstetrical outcome. we carried out a case-control study to investigate the role of sexually transmitted diseases (stds), including infection with hiv, as risk factors for adverse outcome of pregnancy. overall, 1507 women were enrolled within 24 h of delivery. cases (n = 796) were mothers of low-birthweight infants (less than 2500 g) or of stillborns. low-birthweight infants were divided into preterms (n = 373) and neonates small for gestational age (n = 234). stillborns were separated into intrauterine fetal deaths (n = 120), and intrapartum fetal deaths (n = 69). controls were selected from mothers delivering a live baby of greater than or equal to 2500 g (n = 711). the maternal hiv seroprevalence in the control group was 3.1%. prematurity was associated with maternal hiv antibody [8.6% seropositive; adjusted odds ratio (or) 2.1; 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.1-4.0], as was being born small for gestational age (7.7% seropositive; adjusted or 2.3; 95% ci 1.2-4.2). in mothers who delivered a stillborn baby, both intrauterine fetal death (11.7% seropositive; adjusted or 2.7; 95% ci 1.3-5.5) and intrapartum fetal death (11.6% seropositive; adjusted or 2.9; 95% ci 1.3-6.5) were independently associated with hiv seropositivity in the mother. maternal syphilis was confirmed as an important risk factor for intrauterine fetal death (14.3% positive; adjusted or 4.8; 95% ci 2.4-9.5). no significant association was found between other stds, including gonococcal and chlamydial infection, and adverse obstetrical outcome. these results suggest an association between maternal hiv infection and adverse obstetrical outcome, defined as low birthweight and stillbirth.
preliminary studies for an immunotherapeutic approach to the treatment of human myeloma using chimeric anti-cd38 antibody. multiple myeloma is a disease in which conventional chemotherapy has only limited value, but which may be ideal for treatment with passive antibody against a suitable cell surface antigen on the neoplastic plasma cell. the cd38 antigen is known to be present on the majority of neoplastic plasma cells, and this was confirmed by detailed examination of bone marrow aspirates from three patients. strong expression of cd38 was confined to cells which, by the criteria of light-scattering profiles and possession of cytoplasmic ig, were plasma cells. the vast majority of neoplastic plasma cells appeared to be involved. using a cell line as a model, it was found that the cd38 antigen acts as a target for a chimeric antibody prepared from the antibody okt10. the chimeric antibody consists of the fab portion of the mouse monoclonal antibody linked by a stable thioether bond to an fc molecule derived from human igg1, thereby forming mouse fab-human fc. in contrast to the parent antibody, the chimeric molecule mediates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (adcc) very efficiently with human blood mononuclear effector cells, and is effective at low concentration. also, even though the cd38 antigen is present on natural killer cells, there appears to be little deleterious action of the antibody on effector cell function. the antibody also failed to affect the growth of progenitor cells of the granulocyte/macrophage or erythroid lineages present in normal bone marrows, despite the suspicion that these cells express the antigen. other advantages of the cd38 molecule are that it is not found in the serum of patients with myeloma, and it does not appear to modulate in vitro. fourteen patients with florid myeloma and on various chemotherapeutic regimes had an undiminished capacity to mediate adcc with the chimeric antibody, when compared with normal individuals. the maintenance of adcc activity, coupled with the known suppression of the antibody response in these patients, augers well for treatment with chimeric antibody.
immunohistochemical demonstration of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa. specimens of normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa from 52 patients were analysed by immunohistochemistry using a monospecific polyclonal antiserum against human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (psti). in normal colonic mucosa psti was found in the goblet cells in the basal parts of the crypts. in adenomas of tubular, villous, and tubulo-villous types psti was also found in the upper parts of the polyps, usually occurring in the regeneration zone. there was a more intense staining reaction in polyps with increased atypia. carcinomas of different types and of various grades of differentiation and of in situ type did not contain psti. these findings indicate that psti could be a marker for adenomatous rather than carcinomatous epithelium in the colon. furthermore, the absence of the inhibitor in malignant cells might facilitate tissue invasion by malignant cells because of deficient protease inhibition.
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer: the results of a randomized trial. two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin (e) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone (lep) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone (hep). the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals. reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease, stable disease without symptomatic improvement, or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician. toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization (who) criteria of response and toxicity. two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis, 98% of whom have been followed for more than a year. one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep. significantly worse myelosuppression, alopecia, nausea and vomiting, and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm (p less than or equal to .001). more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm, and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease. a similar median number of courses was given in each arm. there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm (hep - complete response [cr] + partial response [pr] = 41%, lep - cr + pr = 23%). despite this, no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval. the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks, respectively.
alterations in aldosterone secretion and metabolism in low renin hypertension. low renin essential hypertensives (lrh) have normal plasma aldosterone levels which are inappropriately high in relation to their pra. posture is the major determinant for plasma aldosterone and pra levels, but it is not known whether postural increments (delta) of plasma aldosterone and (delta) pra are also abnormal in lrh. to evaluate this, lrh (n = 8), normal renin hypertensives (nrh; n = 9), normotensive controls (n = 18), and subjects with idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (iha; n = 5) were studied in a metabolic unit on a controlled diet over 7 days. overnight supine and 4-h upright pra, plasma aldosterone, and 24-h urinary tetrahydroaldosterone (tha) and aldosterone secretion rates (asr) were measured. the delta in plasma aldosterone after 4 h of upright posture was not different in the four groups. the ratio of delta plasma aldosterone/delta pra, however, was elevated in both iha and lrh compared to that in nrh and normals. tha excretion was also elevated in iha and lrh, but lrh had a normal asr. this resulted in a higher fractional tha excretion (tha/asr) in lrh compared to the other three groups. these data further support enhanced adrenal angiotensin-ii sensitivity in lrh. aldosterone was preferentially metabolized to tha in lrh. since tha has reduced biological activity, this may be a compensatory mechanism to reduce mineralocorticoid activity in lrh.
flow cytometric detection of tumor metastases during urologic surgery. flow cytometric studies were performed on peripheral blood obtained before, during, and subsequent to urologic surgery. the results suggest that 7 of 11 patients had a brief period during surgical manipulation when they had cells from the primary surgical site in the peripheral blood. concentration of such cells was generally less than 10(2)/ml even during the intraoperative period. these findings suggest that perioperative tumor seeding is a real concern, and that flow cytometry can be used to study maneuvers to reduce its incidence.
occupational sunlight exposure and melanoma in the u.s. navy. melanoma is the second most common cancer, after testicular cancer, in males in the u.s. navy. a wide range of occupations with varying exposures to sunlight and other possible etiologic agents are present in the navy. person-years at risk and cases of malignant melanoma were ascertained using computerized service history and inpatient hospitalization files maintained at the naval health research center. a total of 176 confirmed cases of melanoma were identified in active-duty white male enlisted navy personnel during 1974-1984. risk of melanoma was determined for individual occupations and for occupations grouped by review of job descriptions into three categories of sunlight exposure: (1) indoor, (2) outdoor, or (3) indoor and outdoor. compared with the u.s. civilian population, personnel in indoor occupations had a higher age-adjusted incidence rate of melanoma, i.e., 10.6 per 100,000 (p = .06). persons who worked in occupations that required spending time both indoors and outdoors had the lowest rate, i.e., 7.0 per 100,000 (p = .06). incidence rates of melanoma were higher on the trunk than on the more commonly sunlight-exposed head and arms. two single occupations were found to have elevated rates of melanoma: (1) aircrew survival equipmentman, sir = 6.8 (p less than .05); and (2) engineman, sir = 2.8 (p less than .05). however, there were no cases of melanoma or no excess risk in occupations with similar job descriptions. findings on the anatomical site of melanoma from this study suggest a protective role for brief, regular exposure to sunlight and fit with recent laboratory studies that have shown vitamin d to suppress growth of malignant melanoma cells in tissue culture. a mechanism is proposed in which vitamin d inhibits previously initiated melanomas from becoming clinically apparent.
effect of dietary alpha-linolenic acid on growth, metastasis, fatty acid profile and prostaglandin production of two murine mammary adenocarcinomas. the purpose of this study was to determine whether dietary (n-3) fatty acids would affect mammary tumor growth and metastasis. weanling female balb/c mice were fed diets that contained 10% corn oil (co), linseed oil (lo) or a fish oil-corn oil mix (fo) for 3-8 wk prior to receiving subcutaneous injections of one of two syngeneic mammary tumor cell types (410 and 410.4). tumor growth was assessed by monitoring mean tumor diameter and tumor weight upon removal. feeding lo, but not fo, reduced the growth (p less than 0.05) of 410.4 mammary tumors compared with growth in those fed co. metastasis data paralleled the tumor growth rate. feeding lo and fo enhanced (p less than 0.005) incorporation of (n-3) fatty acids into tumors. tumor prostaglandin e (pge) production was reduced (p less than 0.005) by lo and fo, compared with co. fo feeding reduced 410.4 tumor pge synthesis more (p less than 0.05) than lo feeding, yet tumor growth was only inhibited by lo. these data suggest an inhibitory effect of dietary linolenic acid [i.e., 18:3 (n-3)] on mammary tumor growth and metastasis. however, this effect did not directly correlate with diet-induced changes in pge synthesis.
a note on the measurement of hypertension in hhanes using data from the hhanes, we found the rates of elevated blood pressure readings on clinical examination to be extremely low for a sample of mexican american and puerto rican women. the prevalence rates were one-fourth to one-fifth the rates found for a comparable sample of white women from nhanesii. these findings are discrepant with the little that is known about hypertension prevalence among hispanics and with estimates of hypertension prevalence for mexican americans and puerto ricans drawn from nhanesii. while our hhanes samples women had much lower rates of clinical high blood pressure than whites, they reported hypertension histories in excess of whites. rates of medicine usage among hispanics were insufficiently large for effective treatment to explain the disparity. the prevalence estimates increased, but the relative discrepancies remained when we altered our sample specifications and clinical high blood pressure measure. a possible explanation for these discrepancies is that few physicians performed the majority of blood pressure readings in our hhanes sample. this may have been statistically inefficient. the discrepancies noted suggest that hhanes may not be a reliable source of information on hypertension among hispanic women.
brachial-jugular polytetrafluoroethylene fistulas for hemodialysis. a retrospective analysis was made of 16 patients who had received a brachial-jugular polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe) graft for hemodialysis. in four patients, the procedure was used to treat malfunctioning brachio-axillary fistulas due to long venous stenosis in the axillary vein. in 12 other patients, the operation was chosen in cases of exhaustion of the veins in the upper extremity because of previous multiple failed fistulas. two patients died with a functioning fistula 7 and 10 months after placement of the graft of causes unrelated to the vascular access. the other 14 patients retained functioning fistulas between 8 and 26 months after construction of the shunt. three patients needed graft thrombectomy to treat occlusive episodes. no venous stenosis was found in a postoperative fistulography made in those patients. one patient needed substitution of a graft segment due to stenosis of the prosthesis crossing over the clavicle. we believe that the brachial-jugular graft is a procedure that can be considered as vascular access for hemodialysis in cases where the use of veins in the upper extremity and the axilla is not possible.
potential value of hormone receptor assay in carcinoma in situ of breast. the estrogen receptor (er) expression of invasive breast cancer has been extensively studied both biochemically and with specific monoclonal antibodies against er. relatively few studies have attempted to characterize er pattern in breast carcinoma in situ (cis) and in other premalignant lesions. in the current study, the authors investigated the pattern of er expression in 62 cases of breast cis, 30 of which had a component of invasive cancer, and 36 cases of atypical hyperplasia. paraffin sections of formalin-fixed breast tissue underwent enzyme pretreatment to expose nuclear antigenic sites as previously described. breast tissues then underwent estrogen immunocytochemical assay using specific monoclonal antibodies (abbott laboratory, chicago, il). the cases were evaluated for heterogeneity, intensity of staining, and percentage of er-positive cells. an attempt was made to study the relation between the pattern of er expression, nuclear pleomorphism, and type of cis. the results of er immunocytochemical assay showed positive nuclear staining for er in 75% of the cis, 73% of cis with invasive cancer, and 100% of atypical hyperplasias. er expression in cis agreed with that in the invasive carcinoma in 29 of 30 cases. this study also suggests that comedocarcinoma has a higher incidence of negative er expression than the other types of cis, particularly when it is associated with significant nuclear pleomorphism. there was no significant difference in er tumor heterogeneity between premalignant and malignant lesions.
two-way factorial study of alcohol and salt restriction in treated hypertensive men. the aim of this study was to determine whether moderate restriction of dietary salt intake leads to an additional fall in blood pressure in treated hypertensive men who are asked to simultaneously reduce their usual alcohol intake. sixty-three subjects entered an initial 2-week familiarization period during which they continued their usual alcohol intake and commenced a "low sodium" diet (less than 60 mmol/day) supplemented with 100 mmol sodium chloride per day as enteric-coated tablets. subjects were then randomly assigned to either drink a low alcohol beer alone for a 4-week period (reducing their self-reported alcohol consumption from 537 to 57 ml/week) or to continue their usual alcohol intake (543 versus 557 ml/week). within the low and normal alcohol intake groups, subjects were assigned to either a low or normal sodium intake. the low sodium groups continued the sodium-restricted diet but were switched to placebo sodium chloride tablets for the 4 weeks. this resulted in a fall in the 24-hour urinary sodium excretion from 144 to 69 mmol/day. the normal sodium groups continued the low sodium diet but kept taking 100 mmol/day of the sodium chloride tablets, and their urinary sodium excretion remained unchanged (125 versus 142 mmol/day). regular antihypertensive therapy was continued throughout. fifty-nine subjects completed the trial. in those who reduced their alcohol intake there was a fall in both systolic blood pressure (-5.4 mm hg supine, p less than 0.01) and diastolic blood pressure (-3.2 mm hg supine, p less than 0.01).
plasticity in the aging brain. reversibility of anatomic, metabolic, and cognitive deficits in normal-pressure hydrocephalus following shunt surgery. the course of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus was studied in a 78-year-old woman with a 4-year history of progressive dementia who underwent neuropsychologic testing, quantitative x-ray computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose f 18 to measure rates of regional cerebral glucose utilization. preshunt cognitive testing demonstrated progressive deterioration during 2 years, and positron emission tomography showed significant reductions in regional cerebral glucose utilization of 34% to 49% as compared with age- and sex-matched control subjects in frontal, temporal, parietal, and whole brain regions. periodic testing, carried out during a 2-year period after shunt surgery, showed steady improvement in clinical status. parallel to the clinical changes, there was a significant reversal in neuropsychologic test scores with increased brain volume and increased regional cerebral glucose utilization in several brain regions. these results documented the considerable potential for recovery of compromised brain function in older subjects even after 4 years of progressive brain disease.
data compression: effect on diagnostic accuracy in digital chest radiography. high-resolution digital images make up very large data sets that are relatively slow to transmit and expensive to store. data compression techniques are being developed to address this problem, but significant image deterioration can occur at high compression ratios. in this study, the authors evaluated a form of adaptive block cosine transform coding, a new compression technique that allows considerable compression of digital radiographs with minimal degradation of image quality. to determine the effect of data compression on diagnostic accuracy, observer tests were performed with 60 digitized chest radiographs (2,048 x 2,048 matrix, 1,024 shades of gray) containing subtle examples of pneumothorax, interstitial infiltrate, nodules, and bone lesions. radiographs with no compression, with 25:1 compression, and with 50:1 compression ratios were presented in randomized order to 12 radiologists. the results suggest that, with this compression scheme, compression ratios as high as 25:1 may be acceptable for primary diagnosis in chest radiology.
a simple score for the identification of patients at high risk of organic diseases of the colon in the family doctor consulting room. the local ibs study group. in order to develop a scoring system for selecting patients at high risk of organic diseases of the colon, who would need a colonoscopy or a barium enema, we conducted a study with 14 gps in the local health care district of modena. over one year, 254 consecutive patients who consulted their gp for chronic abdominal pain were asked to answer a guided questionnaire. a checklist of simple parameters suggestive of the presence of organic diseases of the colon was also registered by the gp. for the final diagnosis, the patients underwent either a colonoscopy or a barium enema. data collected were analysed by means of a stepwise logistic regression analysis to obtain a weighted score for the diagnosis of either irritable bowel syndrome (score less than 0) or organic disease (score greater than 0). out of the 25 parameters explored, six were significantly more common among patients with organic disease and weighted as positive score (namely esr greater than 17 mm, first hour, history of blood in the stool, leukocytosis greater than 10,000 cm3, age greater than 45 years, slight fever and presence of neoplastic colonic diseases in first-degree relatives). on the contrary, five parameters were more frequent among patients with irritable bowel syndrome and weighted as negative score (namely visible distension of the abdomen, feeling of distension, presence of irritable bowel syndrome in first degree relatives, flatulence and irregularities of bowel movement). our scoring system correctly classified 83.5% of the cases, and it was very sensitive (82.4%) for the diagnosis of organic disease.
vagus nerve stimulation in humans: neurophysiological studies and electrophysiological monitoring. evidence from studies of experimental animals indicates that electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve alters behavioral and electrographic seizure activity. we report on effects of electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve in five patients with medically intractable seizures as part of a clinical trial of chronic vagal stimulation for control of epilepsy. the mechanism of action of the vagal antiepileptic effect is unknown, and it is hoped that analysis of electrophysiological effects of vagal nerve stimulation will help elucidate which brain areas are affected. stimulation of the left vagus nerve in the neck was accomplished with a programmable implanted stimulator. effects of stimulus amplitude, duration, and rate were studied. noncephalic reference recording of the vagus-nerve-evoked potential showed some unusual properties: a scalp negative component occurred with latency of 12 ms, very high amplitude (up to 60 microv), and widespread scalp distribution. field distribution studies indicate that this potential is generated in the neck, in the region of the stimulating electrodes. muscle paralysis confirms this observation. stimulation at various frequencies had no noticeable effect on electroencephalographic (eeg) activity regardless of whether the patient was under general anesthesia, awake, or asleep.
clinical evaluation of an acetaminophen meter for the rapid diagnosis of acetaminophen intoxication. study objectives: to test the accuracy of a newly developed meter that determines serum acetaminophen concentration after a 30-second analysis of one drop of whole blood. design: sixty-six blood samples from patients with known or suspected drug overdose were analyzed for the presence of acetaminophen. in all cases determination of serum acetaminophen concentration was performed simultaneously with the meter and by a reference laboratory. setting: eligible patients were those who presented during a nine-month period to the emergency departments of two tertiary care hospitals (including a pediatric hospital). results: thirty-one specimens had a laboratory-confirmed detectable acetaminophen concentration. the meter identified these toxic specimens in all cases; there were no false-negatives (sensitivity, 100%). among the 35 specimens not containing acetaminophen, the meter invariably confirmed a nondetectable serum acetaminophen concentration (specificity, 100%). acetaminophen measurements by the meter correlated strongly with laboratory determinations (r = .985, p less than .001). repeated testing of one specimen documented the precision and reproducibility of the meter's analysis; mean coefficient of variation was .08 in measuring toxic acetaminophen concentrations. drug coingestion had no significant effect on the accuracy of the meter. instrument accuracy was maintained after more than 100 uses without recalibration. conclusions: this meter identifies the possibility of rapid and accurate determinations of serum acetaminophen concentration. the instrument is ideally suited for patients with acetaminophen poisoning in whom expeditious and appropriate administration of antidotal therapy is desired.
modulation of mediator release from human intestinal mast cells by sulfasalazine and 5-aminosalicylic acid. intestinal mast cells are thought to contribute to the mucosal inflammation in ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease through release of inflammatory mediators. since sulfasalazine and its metabolite 5-aminosalicylic acid are effective therapeutic agents in inflammatory bowel disease and have been shown to inhibit generation of inflammatory products in other cells, we examined the effect of these agents in vitro on human intestinal mast cell mediator release. sulfasalazine (5 x 10(-4)-10(-3) m) was found to significantly enhance goat anti-human ige-induced histamine release from intestinal mast cells, which is the same response as seen in human blood basophils, whereas its metabolite 5-aminosalicylic acid was an effective inhibitor of stimulated histamine release in both mast cells and basophils. 5-aminosalicylic acid also inhibited production of prostaglandin d2 by the stimulated intestinal mast cells. sulfasalazine alone, without immunologic stimulation, did not induce histamine release from mast cells or basophils, but the enhancement of ongoing mast cell activation by sulfasalazine may explain some cases of adverse reactions to the drug. the inhibition of mast cell histamine release and prostaglandin generation by 5-aminosalicylic acid demonstrates a potential therapeutic modality of this agent.
somatostatin prevents acute pancreatitis after pancreatic duct sphincter hydrostatic balloon dilation in patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. the purpose of this study was to determine whether prophylactic somatostatin infusion can prevent pancreatitis after hydrostatic balloon dilation of the pancreatic duct sphincter segment in 16 patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. this study demonstrated that prophylactic administration of somatostatin before, during, and after the procedure diminished the incidence and severity of acute pancreatitis. we recommend consideration of such prophylaxis in patients undergoing this procedure.
evidence for decreased coronary flow reserve in viable postischemic myocardium. to try to unravel the complexity and heterogeneity of the "no-reflow" phenomenon and its underlying mechanisms, we studied tissue perfusion in reperfused heart muscle by using tracer microspheres in an anesthetized dog model of 90-minute coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion for 2 1/2 hours, 24 hours, or 1 week. regional myocardial blood flow was determined both in basal flow conditions and during reactive hyperemia. the effect of intracoronary adenosine administration was examined, and the ultrastructure of postischemic myocardium was analyzed. in viable reperfused tissue (as delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining), reflow in basal conditions is unimpaired. coronary flow reserve (as approximated by peak reactive hyperemic flow) is intact at the start of reperfusion, decreases by more than half after 2 1/2 hours, and recovers completely within 1 week. this impairment of coronary reserve can be relieved by intracoronary adenosine administration. on ultrastructural examination, the capillaries are patent. on the other hand, in irreversibly damaged myocardium, both the basal reflow impairment and the decrease in coronary flow reserve are severe and permanent. coronary flow reserve is already decreased at the start of reperfusion, and the pharmacological intervention has no beneficial effect. ultrastructurally, extracellular and intracellular edema invariably are present, whereas the vascular endothelium is damaged and the capillaries are packed with red blood cells. we conclude that the no-reflow phenomenon (i.e., mechanical obstruction to blood flow) is limited to infarcted tissue. in viable myocardium, however, coronary flow reserve is transiently diminished, probably because of washout and subsequent insufficient availability of the chemical mediator adenosine after breakdown and slow recovery of the precursor atp pool.
prevention of renal disease and conservation of renal function. in summary, we have reviewed some of the most frequently encountered areas of prevention of renal failure in the elderly. they include obstruction, hypertension, drug interaction, and inappropriate use of drugs and the silent killer of the elderly, renal carcinoma. only by a thorough understanding of the altered physiology of the aging kidney can the physician avoid making the same mistakes when new drugs are developed or new types of diseases are encountered. proper early diagnosis and understanding the guidelines to therapy in these conditions, can save huge human costs in terms of mortality, morbidity, and money.
greenfield filter as primary therapy for deep venous thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in patients with cancer. in 1985, as a result of the high complication rate associated with anticoagulants in patients who have cancer and deep venous thrombosis (dvt) and/or pulmonary embolism (pe), we established a policy of placing greenfield filters (gfs) as primary therapy instead of anticoagulation. since 1985 we have been asked to consult in the treatment of 18 patients with cancer and with dvt and/or pe, and we have placed a gf in each of these patients. this represented 34% (18/53) of the filters placed during that same period. over the same 4-year period, 11 patients with cancer and dvt and/or pe underwent anticoagulation therapy. the purpose of this study was to compare the results of anticoagulation versus gf insertion in these two groups of patients. a significantly higher number of major complications (n = 4) occurred in the anticoagulation group (p less than 0.05, fisher's exact test) than in the gf group (n = 0). the four complications that occurred in the anticoagulation group included three bleeding episodes (tumor bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, and hip hematoma) and one pe, despite adequate anticoagulation. two patients died as a direct result of these complications (pe and gastrointestinal bleeding). the three patients with bleeding complications each required a transfusion of more than 3 units of blood. all four of the patients with complications had metastatic disease (pancreatic carcinoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, prostate carcinoma, and uterine carcinoma). although this is a small, nonrandomized, nonprospective study, the data seem to indicate that gf placement is safer than anticoagulation for dvt or pe in patients with cancer and particularly in patients with metastatic disease. we conclude that gf insertions may be a better primary treatment than anticoagulation.
perception and action in 'visual form agnosia'. a single case study of a patient with 'visual form agnosia' is presented. a severe visual recognition deficit was accompanied by impairments in discriminating shape, reflectance, and orientation, although visual acuity and colour vision, along with tactile recognition and intelligence, were largely preserved. neuropsychological and behavioural investigations have indicated that the patient is able to utilize visual pattern information surprisingly well for the control of hand movements during reaching, and can even read many whole words, despite being unable to make simple discriminative judgements of shape or orientation. she seems to have no awareness of shape primitives through gestalt grouping by similarity, continuity or symmetry. it is proposed that many of these perceptual disorders might be the combined result of (1) a selective loss of the cortical elaboration of the magnocellular visual processing stream, and (2) a selective output disconnection from a central processor of visual boundaries and shape primitives in the occipital cortex.
"pinch modification" used to repair a large surgical defect on the scalp: other proposed uses. dr peng's "pinch modification" of the linear advancement flap, a reconstructive technique used to correct surgical wounds on the nose and suggested as a surgical alternative in other non-hair-bearing skin, was used successfully to correct a surgical defect of 55 mm in diameter located on the occipital area, on hair-bearing skin. other possible uses for this technique are suggested.
treatment planning for internal radionuclide therapy: three-dimensional dosimetry for nonuniformly distributed radionuclides. a calculational approach is described that provides the spatially varying radiation absorbed dose, presented as isodose contours superimposed on ct images, from nonuniform and/or irregular cumulated activity distributions. ct images are read from magnetic tape and are displayed on a high-resolution color graphics display monitor. source tissue geometries are defined on a series of contiguous ct images automatically (by an edge detection algorithm) or manually (using a trackball), thereby obtaining a three-dimensional representation of the various source volumes of activity. dose calculations are performed using a radionuclide-specific absorbed dose point kernel in the form of a lookup table. the method described yields the spatially varying dose delivered to tumor and normal tissue volumes from a patient-specific cumulated activity distribution in a clinically implementable manner. this level of accuracy in determining normal tissue and tumor doses may prove valuable in the evaluation and implementation of radionuclides and radiolabeled compounds for therapeutic purposes.
isolated ventral pancreatitis in a patient with pancreas divisum. a previously healthy 22-yr-old woman was found to have chronic pancreatitis restricted to the ventral pancreas in association with pancreas divisum. when conservative treatment failed, sphincteroplasty of both papillae was performed with good results. this well-documented case represents a clear exception to the commonly held concept that obstruction of the dorsal duct is the essential pathogenic factor in the development of pancreatitis associated with pancreas divisum. the importance of visualizing both the dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts to direct therapy for patients with idiopathic pancreatitis is discussed. theories of the pathogenesis of concomitant pancreatitis and pancreas divisum are reviewed.
pulmonary hypertension after heparin-protamine: roles of left-sided infusion, histamine, and platelet-activating factor. severe pulmonary hypertension after protamine neutralization of heparin is an infrequent but life-threatening event following cardiopulmonary bypass. the effect of left ventricular infusion of protamine on pulmonary hypertension as well as a possible role of platelet-activating factor (paf) or histamine in the heparin-protamine reaction was investigated in 30 pigs in four different groups during general anesthesia. group 1 animals received 250 iu/kg heparin, followed by 100 mg protamine intravenously after 15 min. in group 2 protamine was infused into the left ventricle. group 3 animals received the histamine h1- and h2-antagonists clemastine and ranitidine 5 min before protamine infusion. in group 4 the paf receptor blocker web 2086 was given 5 min before protamine. platelet-activating factor was measured by a bioassay in serum samples of group 1 and group 4 animals. in all four groups protamine caused severe pulmonary hypertension, thromboxane a2 release, and a transient decrease in leukocyte counts. no paf release was detected after protamine infusion. neither left ventricular infusion of protamine nor histamine or paf antagonists prevented or attenuated the reactions after protamine infusion. the authors conclude that left ventricular infusion of protamine provides no protection from pulmonary hypertension, and that histamine and paf are not involved in the acute pulmonary vasoconstriction after protamine neutralization of heparin.
litigation and employment status: effects on patients with chronic pain. in order to study the effects of compensation and litigation, 201 chronic pain patients were selected from a sample of 444: 99 were working, 15 were working and litigating, 53 were receiving worker's compensation, and 34 were receiving worker's compensation and litigating. employment (working vs. worker's compensation) and litigation status (litigating vs. not litigating) were analyzed in a 2 x 2 factorial design with measures of pain, disability, psychological distress, and selected demographics as dependent variables. compared to worker's compensation patients, working patients reported significantly less disability (down-time, days spent in bed, interference of pain in daily activities) and pain of a longer duration. compared to litigating patients, non-litigating patients reported less pain (on the mcgill pain questionnaire) and less disability (stopping activity, interference of pain in daily activities). on two measures of psychological distress (depression, anxiety), there were significant interactions: worker's compensation patients who were litigating reported less distress than non-litigants, while working patients who were litigating reported more distress than non-litigants. the results indicate clear differences in self-reports of disability associated with both employment and litigation status. they also suggest that litigation may function as a coping response for patients who are distressed by the adversarial nature of the worker's compensation system. limitations of the study as well as suggestions for further research also are discussed.
embryonic stem cell virus, a recombinant murine retrovirus with expression in embryonic stem cells. the expression of moloney murine leukemia virus and vectors derived from it is restricted in undifferentiated mouse embryonal carcinoma and embryonal stem (es) cells. we have developed a retroviral vector, the murine embryonic stem cell virus (mesv), that is active in embryonal carcinoma and es cells. mesv was derived from a retroviral mutant [pcc4-cell-passaged myeloproliferative sarcoma virus (pcmv)] expressed in embryonal carcinoma cells but not in es cells. the enhancer region of pcmv was shown to be functional in both cell types, but sequences within the 5' untranslated region of pcmv were found to restrict viral expression in es cells. replacement of this region by related sequences obtained from the dl-587rev retrovirus results in mesv, a modified pcmv virus that confers g418 resistance to fibroblasts and es cells with similar efficiencies. expression of mesv in es cells is mediated by transcriptional regulatory elements within the 5' long terminal repeat of the viral genome.
computerized tomography in acute gastrointestinal disorders. in recent years, computerized tomography (ct) has become one of the most important imaging modalities in evaluation of patients with acute gastrointestinal disorders. its role, diagnostic accuracy, indications, and limitations in some of the most commonly encountered acute abdominal conditions are succinctly presented and reviewed. ct should not be used indiscriminantly, but is best considered a valuable primary or complimentary diagnostic tool in critically ill patients. its selective use in a variety of emergency abdominal diseases will significantly improve accuracy of clinical diagnoses, leading to a prompt and adequate medical or surgical management.
molecular and hematologic characterization of scottish-irish type (epsilon gamma delta beta)zero thalassemia. the dna deletion associated with an example of (epsilon gamma delta beta)zero thalassemia (scottish-irish type) was characterized. the deletion is approximately 205 kb in length and involves the epsilon, g gamma, a gamma, delta, and beta globin genes. the breakpoint is located 263 bp 3' to exon 3 of the beta globin gene. an li (kpni) repeat element approximately 320 bp in size is found at the 3' end of the novel dna sequence. different clinical phenotypes for three heterozygous neonates suggest that the deletion alone does not predict severity of (epsilon gamma delta beta)zero thalassemia at this age.
the molecular biology of occlusive stroke in childhood. it is very likely that many of the same factors involved in occlusive disease in the adult are operative in the child. the major difference may be in the factors that damage endothelium in these two age groups and thereby initiate this catastrophe (atherosclerosis versus "other" causes of endothelial changes). our task in this next decade is the rational exploration of the effects of endothelium-mediated kinins, endothelial secretory products, angiospasm, platelet aggregration, prostaglandins, and lipoproteins on pediatric stroke.
the pathophysiology of anoxic injury in central nervous system white matter. white matter of the mammalian brain is susceptible to anoxic injury, but little is known about the pathophysiology of this process. we studied the mechanisms of anoxic injury in white matter using the isolated rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white-matter tract. optic nerve function, measured as the area under the compound action potential, rapidly failed when exposed to anoxia. postanoxic recovery was variable, depending on duration of the anoxic insult; after a standard 60-minute period of anoxia, the compound action potential recovered to 28.5% of control. irreversible anoxic injury was critically dependent on extracellular ca2+; maintaining the tissue in zero [ca2+] solution throughout the anoxic period resulted in 100% compound action potential recovery. increasing perfusate [ca2+] during anoxia from zero to 4 mm resulted in progressively less recovery. anoxic damage to the optic nerve appears to depend on the gradual accumulation (over tens of minutes) of ca2+ in a cytoplasmic compartment. the inorganic ca2+ channel blockers mn2+ (1 mm), co2+ (1 mm), or la3+ (0.1 mm) had no effect on recovery of the compound action potential after anoxia; only mg2+ (10 mm) significantly improved recovery. treatment with the dihydropyridine ca2+ channel blockers nifedipine (1-10 microm) or nimodipine (1-40 microm) also had no effect on recovery from anoxia. thus, ca2+ influx during anoxia does not occur via conventional ca2+ channels. preliminary evidence suggests that this ca2+ influx may occur via other cation channels that are imperfectly selective for ca2+ or via the na(+)-ca2+ exchanger.
phase i clinical and pharmacokinetic trial of flavone acetic acid. flavone acetic acid is a synthetic benzopyrone derivative with an unknown mechanism of action. thirty-eight patients (30 men and 8 women) were treated once a week for 4 weeks every 5 weeks with doses of flavone acetic acid ranging from 0.33 to 12.5 g/m2. at doses less than or equal to 3.9 g/m2, the drug was administered intravenously over 1 hour; at doses greater than or equal to 5.28 g/m2, the infusion period was lengthened to 6 hours. treatment of all patients included hydration before and after treatment and alkalization to maintain urine ph at greater than or equal to 6.5. a dose-limiting toxic effect was hypotension at 10 g/m2. pharmacokinetic studies revealed linear behavior in the eight patients studied, beginning at 3.9 g/m2. peak plasma levels ranged from 125 to 630 micrograms/ml, with a mean terminal half-life of 22.4 hours. immunologic monitoring was performed in three patients at 10 g/m2. a transient increase in cd16- and/or leu-19-positive cells was noted in all three patients. in one patient, this increase correlated with a 10-fold increase in k562 cell killing. there were no objective tumor responses seen in this trial. the recommended phase ii dose on this schedule is 8 g/m2. further studies to elucidate the drug's mechanism of action and to define its immunologic properties are recommended.
similar time course of st depression during and after exercise in patients with coronary artery disease and syndrome x. to assess whether the time course of st segment depression differs in patients with coronary artery disease and patients with angina and normal coronary arteries, the exercise tests of 54 patients with documented coronary artery disease and 25 patients with syndrome x (angina, positive exercise test, no evidence of coronary artery spasm, and normal coronary arteries) were compared. all tests were performed with therapy withheld, using the modified bruce protocol. in each test, time, heart rate and blood pressure were measured at the onset and at 1 mm of st segment depression, and at peak exercise. recovery (return of the st segment to baseline +/- 0.2 mm) time was also assessed. peak st segment depression was similar in coronary artery disease and syndrome x patients (1.5 +/- 0.3 versus 1.6 +/- 0.4 mm). in 42 coronary artery disease patients, st segment depression developed early (less than or equal to 6 minutes) during exercise; this was associated with a short recovery (less than or equal to 3 minutes) in 17 (40%) and with a long recovery (greater than 3 minutes) in 25 (60%) patients. in 17 patients with syndrome x, st segment depression developed early; it was associated with a short recovery in six (35%) and with a long recovery in 11 (65%) patients. late (greater than 6 minutes) onset of st segment depression was observed in 12 coronary artery disease patients; of these, eight (67%) had a short recovery and 4 (33%) had a long recovery. late onset of st segment depression occurred in eight patients with syndrome x; six (75%) had a short recovery and two (25%) had a long recovery.
treatment of patients with isolated axillary nodal metastases from an occult primary carcinoma consistent with breast origin. the records of 42 patients who had axillary metastases compatible with a clinically occult breast primary were reviewed. forty patients had mammography performed as part of their evaluations. mastectomy yielded the primary tumor in one of 13 patients; biopsy yielded positive results in one of five. among the 29 patients who did not undergo mastectomy, 16 received breast irradiation, and 13 were simply observed for signs of the primary tumor. for the patients who did not undergo mastectomy, the 5-year actuarial risk for appearance of a primary was 17% in the irradiated group versus 57% in the nonirradiated group (p = 0.06). patterns of failure are correlated with stage and local and systemic therapy. the results affirm our belief that patients with axillary metastases histologically consistent with breast tumor should be treated identically to patients with similar nodal stages and proven breast primaries.
regional and systemic distribution of anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroaggregate antibodies and cultured human peripheral blood lymphocytes in a human colon cancer xenograft. anti-tumor antibody (317g5) covalently coupled to an anti-cd3 antibody (okt3) produces a heteroaggregate (ha) antibody that can target pbl to lyse tumor cells expressing the appropriate tumor ag. the i.v. and i.p. distribution of radiolabeled ha antibody 317g5 x okt3 and of radiolabeled cultured human pbl were studied in athymic nude mice bearing solid intraperitoneal tumor established from the human colon tumor line, ls174t. mice were injected with 125i-labeled ha antibody, 125i-labeled anti-tumor mab, or 111in-labeled pbl, and at designated timepoints tissues were harvested and measured for radioactivity. 125i-317g5 x okt3 localized specifically to tumor sites. tumor radioactivity levels (percent injected dose/gram) were lower with 125i-317g5 x okt3 ha antibody than with 125i-317g5 anti-tumor mab, but were similar to levels reported for other anti-tumor mab. the major difference in radioactivity levels observed between i.v. and i.p. administration of 125i-317g5 x okt3 was an increase in hepatic radioactivity after i.v. ha antibody administration. ha antibodies produced from f(ab')2 fragments, which exhibit decreased m. w. and decreased fc receptor-mediated binding, demonstrated improved tumor:tissue ratios as compared to intact antibody ha. 125i-317g5 f(ab')2 x okt3 f(ab')2 antibody levels were equivalent to intact ha antibody levels in tumor, but were lower than intact ha antibody levels in the blood, bowel, and liver. tumor:bowel ratios (20:1 at 48 h) were highest when 317g5 f(ab')2 x okt3 f(ab')2 was injected i.p. autoradiography confirmed that anti-tumor x anti-cd3 ha antibodies localized specifically to intraperitoneal tumor; that i.p. administered ha antibodies penetrated tumor directly; and that i.v. administered ha antibodies distributed along tumor vasculature. cultured human pbl distributed in moderate concentrations to intraperitoneal tumor when administered i.p., but not when administered i.v. the poor localization of i.v. injected pbl to tumor may reflect species disparity in homing receptors and/or endothelial ligands, a problem which may be overcome with a syngeneic model. these results suggest that regional therapy with ha antibodies and pbl may offer advantages over systemic therapy for initial clinical trials.
prolonged anginal perceptual threshold in diabetes: effects on exercise capacity and myocardial ischemia. anginal perceptual threshold (the time from onset of 0.1 mv of st segment depression to onset of angina during treadmill exercise) is prolonged in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease. in the present study, the functional significance of this perceptual abnormality was evaluated by analysis of its effect on exercise capacity and the severity of myocardial ischemia. treadmill exercise in 32 diabetic patients and 36 nondiabetic control patients showed a close linear correlation between the time to onset of electrical ischemia (st segment depression) and exercise capacity in both groups (r = 0.8 and 0.9, respectively; p less than 0.001). however, the slope of the relation was flatter in the diabetic group because prolongation of the anginal perceptual threshold permitted continued exercise as ischemia intensified. the anginal perceptual threshold itself showed a close linear correlation with exercise capacity in the diabetic group (r = 0.8, p less than 0.001), although in the nondiabetic group these variables were unrelated. the permissive effect of a prolonged anginal perceptual threshold on exercise capacity is undesirable as reflected by its correlation with ischemia at peak exercise (r = 0.6, p less than 0.001): the longer the threshold, the greater the exercise capacity and the more severe the ischemia. indeed, the inverse relation between the severity of ischemia at peak exercise and exercise capacity in the nondiabetic group (r = 0.4, p less than 0.02) was completely lost in the diabetic group. thus, in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease, anginal perceptual threshold is a major determinant of exercise capacity.
timing and mechanism of in-hospital and late death after primary coronary angioplasty during acute myocardial infarction. the effect of early myocardial reperfusion on patterns of death after acute myocardial infarction (ami) is unknown. thus, the mechanism and timing of in-hospital and late deaths among a group of 614 patients treated with coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy for ami were determined. death occurred in 49 patients (8%) before hospital discharge. four patients died in the catheterization laboratory. death was due to cardiogenic shock in 22 patients, acute vessel reclosure in 5 patients, was sudden in 8 patients and followed elective coronary artery bypass surgery in 8 patients. cardiac rupture was observed in only 2 patients after failed infarct angioplasty, and did not occur among the 574 patients with successful infarct reperfusion. intracranial hemorrhage did not occur. multivariate predictors of in-hospital death included failed infarct angioplasty, cardiogenic shock, 3-vessel coronary artery disease and age greater than or equal to 70 years. during a follow-up period of 32 +/- 21 months (range 1 to 87), 55 patients died. the cause of death was cardiac in 36 patients, including an arrhythmic death in 23 patients and was due to circulatory failure in 13 others. one patient died of reinfarction due to late reclosure of the infarct artery. actuarial survival curves demonstrated overall survival after hospital discharge of 95 and 87% at 1 and 4 years, respectively. freedom from cardiac death at 1 and 4 years was 96 and 92%. multivariate predictors of late death included 3-vessel disease, a baseline ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40%, age greater than 70 years and female gender.
medical comorbidity of major depressive disorder in a primary medical practice. despite much speculation about the relationship between depression and medical comorbidity in primary care settings, few investigators have examined this issue empirically. using a two-stage screening procedure, we assessed 618 patients aged 18 to 64 years in an academic general medicine clinic. forty-one patients (6.6%) suffered from a current episode of major depressive disorder (mdd). we compared this group with a 20% random sample of nondepressed patients. while patients with mdd were younger (mean age, 41.1 vs 47.2 years), they were assessed by the duke university severity of illness scale as having more severe medical illness. patients with mdd were more likely to have malignant tumors and "ill-defined conditions" than nondepressed patients. the 18 patients with mdd (44%) who were correctly diagnosed by their physicians had less severe medical illness than those whose depression was clinically undetected. a logistic regression model predicting mdd group membership included female gender, younger age, higher duke university severity of illness scale score, and more frequent inactive ill-defined diagnoses. these findings are consistent with assertions: (1) patients with mdd have more physical illness than nondepressed patients and/or (2) somatic symptoms and disability caused by mdd add to the burden of physical illness.
motility changes in primary achalasia following pneumatic dilatation. the changes in esophageal motility after pneumatic dilatation were evaluated prospectively in 51 patients with achalasia. the patients were evaluated for a median of 14 months. pneumatic dilatation led to a clinical improvement in 41 patients. on manometric evaluation, a significant decrease in lower esophageal sphincter pressure was observed (28.4 +/- 14.9 mmhg vs. 13.5 +/- 7.2 mmhg; p = 0.001); the resting pressure of the esophageal body dropped from 4.8 +/- 4.2 mmhg above gastric baseline to 0.1 +/- 3.9 mmhg below gastric baseline. after therapy, peristaltic activity was present in 10/51 (20%) patients; in 1 case, complete relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter was recorded. treatment-induced motility changes could not be predicted by clinical history or the lower esophageal sphincter pressure before or after therapy. however, the resting pressure of the esophageal body before and after therapy was significantly lower in these patients in whom peristalsis recurred after therapy than in patients with an unchanged motility pattern. the reappearance of peristaltic activity after pneumatic dilatation was unrelated to lower esophageal sphincter pressure. in conclusion, motility disturbances of the esophageal body in patients with achalasia do not simply reflect the functional obstruction of the lower esophageal sphincter. these findings support the hypothesis that achalasia is not a distinct motility disturbance but should be regarded as part of a broad spectrum of different interrelated esophageal motility disorders.
regression of the left main trunk lesion by steroid administration in takayasu's aortitis. a 62-year-old man with unstable angina due to severe narrowing of the left main trunk (lmt) was examined. emergency bypass surgery was performed with an internal mammary artery graft, instead of a saphenous vein graft, because of the thickened, edematous ascending aorta. postoperative coronary angiography showed the lesion of the lmt markedly regressing. presumably, this stenotic lesion of the lmt was caused by active aortitis and was partially reversible by steroid administration both during and after surgery. steroid therapy can be added to the list of treatments for cases of lmt disease associated with takayasu's aortitis, if signs of active inflammation are present.
long-term clinical results with the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft. from 1977 to 1987, 829 ionescu-shiley pericardial valves (shiley, inc., irvine, calif.) were implanted in 766 patients at the university of ottawa heart institute. there were 476 patients who had aortic valve replacement, 234 who had mitral valve replacement, and 44 who had double valve replacement. the standard-profile design was used in 508 patients and the low-profile design in 321 patients. follow-up was obtained for 97% of patients, with calculation of event-free probabilities. at 10 years the overall probability of freedom from structural failure was 48% +/- 7% after aortic valve replacement, 44% +/- 15% after mitral valve replacement, and 79% +/- 11% after double valve replacement. although at 5 years the probability of failure was statistically lower with the low-profile design, this favorability was lost by 6 years. freedom from structural failure was only 47% +/- 7% for the standard-profile valve at 10 years. thus the probability of freedom from reoperation was only 46% +/- 7% after aortic valve replacement, 39% +/- 6% after mitral valve replacement, and 65% +/- 20% after double valve replacement at 10 years. thromboembolism occurred in 69 patients, for a predicted freedom from this complication at 10 years of 79% +/- 3% after aortic, 73% +/- 7% after mitral, and 96% +/- 4% after double valve replacement. there were 31 cases of endocarditis. the 10-year predicted freedom from endocarditis, therefore, was 86% +/- 3% after aortic, 98% +/- 1% after mitral, and 97% +/- 1% after double valve replacement. a total of 221 operative and late deaths were recorded in this series. prosthetic valve failure accounted for 27% of late deaths. the 10-year survival rates were estimated to be 56% +/- 5% (aortic valve replacement), 54% +/- 6% (mitral valve replacement), and 51% +/- 8% (double valve replacement). we concluded that the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft provides less than optimal clinical performance and its use has been discontinued.
the spectrum of portal vein thrombosis in liver transplantation. thrombosis of the portal vein with or without patency of its tributaries used to be a contraindication to orthotopic liver transplantation (oltx) until quite recently. rapid progress in the surgical technique of oltx in the last few years has demonstrated that most patients with portal vein thrombosis can be safely and successfully transplanted. presented here is a series of 34 patients with portal vein thrombosis transplanted at the university of pittsburgh since 1984. the various techniques used to treat various forms of thrombosis are described. the survival rate for this series was 67.6% (23 of 34 patients). survival was best for patients who underwent phlebothrombectomy or placement of a jump graft from the superior mesenteric vein. the survival rate also correlated with the amount of blood required for transfusion during surgery. overall it is concluded that a vast majority of the patients with thrombosis of the portal system can be technically transplanted and that their survival rate is comparable to that of patients with patent portal vein.
indigenous cases of lyme disease diagnosed in north carolina. between january 1984 and december 1989, 102 indigenous cases of lyme disease were reported in north carolina. lyme disease was reported in each of the three major geographic regions of the state: mountain, piedmont, and coastal plain. one or more diagnoses were made in 42 of 100 counties. patients ranged in age from 5 months to 78 years (median, 27 years); 58 patients (57%) reported a history of tick exposure within 1 month of the onset of symptoms. erythema migrans was reported by 93 patients (91%). arthritis (30%), neurologic symptoms (10%), and cardiac abnormalities (7%) were observed. thirty of the 102 cases were confirmed serologically by indirect fluorescence microscopy or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
alanine aminotransferase in clinical practice. a review. alanine aminotransferase is an enzyme produced mainly in the liver. when serum activity is measured, it provides a marker of hepatic disease. this review explores the biochemistry and laboratory analysis of alanine aminotransferase in terms of its significance in human health and disease. cut-off levels that define abnormality are rather arbitrary and this decreases the specificity of the test in apparently healthy patients. a small, but important, group of patients with alanine aminotransferase abnormality have underlying liver disease that may be treatable. most can be diagnosed based on history, physical examination, and biochemical-serological profiles. liver biopsy can complement the diagnostic process in selected circumstances. literature pertaining to this is critically reviewed.
left ventricular diastolic dysfunction limits use of maximum systolic elastance as an index of contractile function. we tested the hypothesis that maximum systolic elastance (emax) fails to detect a decline in left ventricular (lv) contractile function when diastolic dysfunction is present. canine hearts were studied in an isolated blood-perfused heart apparatus (isovolumic lv); contractile dysfunction was produced by 60 or 90 minutes of global ischemia, followed by 90 minutes of reperfusion. nine normal hearts underwent 60 minutes of ischemia, and five underwent 90 minutes of ischemia. after the ischemia-reperfusion sequence, developed pressure, pressure-volume area, and myocardial atp level were significantly less than those at baseline in all 14 hearts. in the group undergoing 60 minutes of ischemia, lv diastolic pressure did not increase, whereas emax decreased from 5.2 +/- 2.5 to 2.9 +/- 1.4 mm hg/ml (p less than 0.05). in the group undergoing 90 minutes of ischemia, diastolic pressure increased (from 10 +/- 2 to 37 +/- 20 mm hg, p less than 0.05), and emax did not change significantly (from 5.1 +/- 4.3 to 4.3 +/- 2.5 mm hg/ml). a second series of experiments was performed in 13 hearts with pressure-overload hypertrophy (aortic-band model with echocardiography and catheterization studies before the ischemia-reperfusion protocol). five had evidence for pump failure, whereas eight remained compensated. after 60 minutes of ischemia and 90 minutes of reperfusion, developed pressure, pressure-volume area, and myocardial atp level were significantly less than those at baseline in all 13 hearts. in the group with compensated lv hypertrophy, lv diastolic pressure did not change, whereas emax decreased from 6.9 +/- 3.0 to 3.1 +/- 2.3 mm hg/ml (p less than 0.05).
coronary angioplasty in young adults: initial results and late outcome. the initial and late outcome of coronary angioplasty was studied in 148 patients less than 40 years of age (mean 36.4 +/- 3). angioplasty was performed on a single vessel in 70% of patients and on multiple vessels in 30%; it was performed on a totally occluded vessel in 20%. angioplasty was successful in 90.5% of patients, unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 7.4% and complicated by myocardial infarction in 0.7%, emergency bypass surgery in 0.7% and death in 0.7%. at late (mean 3.7 +/- 3 years; range 0.5 to 11.5) follow-up study after successful angioplasty, 94% of patients were alive, 79% were free of angina and 85% had returned to work; late myocardial infarction occurred in 4%. actuarial survival at 5 years was 95%, and 85% of patients were free from death, infarction or bypass surgery. a second angioplasty was performed in 29 patients (22%) (mean 6.1 +/- 8.4 months) and was successful in 27 (93%), with no deaths. elective coronary bypass surgery was performed in 8.5% of patients, with perioperative infarction in 9% and no deaths. by univariate analysis, late death was more likely to occur in hypertensive patients (15% versus 2.5%; p less than 0.01) and diabetic patients (21.4% versus 3.6%; p less than 0.01). cox proportional hazard regression analysis identified hypertension (p = 0.007) and diabetes (p = 0.04) as independent time-related predictors of subsequent death. thus, early and late results after coronary angioplasty in young adults are favorable, but certain risk factors are important predictors of outcome. late revascularization procedures (repeat angioplasty or surgery) for restenosis or disease progression are common.
grading white matter lesions on ct and mri: a simple scale. we developed and tested a simple three-point scale for grading white matter lesions in anterior and posterior regions of the brain. twenty four ct scans and 24 mri scans were separately judged by 11 and five observers, respectively, on the presence and severity of white matter lesions. the observers were radiologists and neurologists. for ct scans, these periventricular changes were graded according to their extent as absent, or partly involving the white matter, or extending up to the subcortical region. the mri lesions were graded as no lesion or only a single one, multiple focal lesions, and multiple confluent lesions. the pairwise agreements of all possible combinations of observers for each scan were corrected for chance (kappa statistics; maximal agreement 1.0). the weighted kappa value, for anterior and posterior regions combined, was 0.63 for ct scans, and 0.78 for mri scans. this three-point scale for two separate regions seems suitable as a basis for cross-sectional or longitudinal studies of large series of patients.
nitrite from inflammatory cells--a cancer risk factor in ulcerative colitis? elevated levels of luminal nitrite and a lowered luminal ph were found in 77 percent of patients with acute ulcerative colitis. no luminal nitrite was found in healthy control subjects. nitrites are a secretory product of activated macrophages and neutrophils of the lamina propria, whereas the lowered luminal ph is due to diminished bicarbonate formation by impaired colonocytes. a hypothesis is put forward that nitrites, lowered ph, and bacterial amines are conducive to formation of carcinogenic n-nitroso compounds, which reflect a cancer risk in patients with ulcerative colitis dependent on the type and extent of inflammatory cell activation as well as metabolic impairment of colonic epithelial cells.
doxazosin therapy in the treatment of diabetic hypertension. the incidence of cardiovascular disease in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) has not been reduced by the control of hyperglycemia alone. hypertension and dyslipidemia may be the major determinants of macrovascular disease in these patients. with the high prevalence of hypertension in niddm, antihypertensive drugs are likely to be important determinants of an atherogenic lipid profile. to date, there is no completed major randomized controlled trial of antihypertensive treatment outcome in a diabetic population, and as such, drug choice for the treatment of diabetic hypertension is often based on evidence extrapolated from studies in nondiabetic groups. however, two short-term studies have assessed the effects of doxazosin antihypertensive therapy in subjects with niddm. both studies showed that the significant reduction in blood pressure with doxazosin treatment was associated with favorable effects on the serum lipid profile. in one study, contrasting adverse effects of atenolol treatment on glycemic control, lipids, and lipoproteins were observed. doxazosin therapy was associated with a trend toward correcting the disturbances of lipoprotein metabolism characteristic of niddm. these metabolic effects, combined with effective lowering of blood pressure by doxazosin, may be important determinants of cardiovascular disease in the long term.
dietary sodium reduction for hypertension prevention and treatment. nutritional-nonpharmacological approaches for the treatment and prevention of hypertension are of great interest. sodium reduction is one of the primary methods recommended for these purposes. the general public is interested in the reduction of dietary sodium intake and has responded with a decrease in table salt use, the purchase of lowered sodium food products, and the use of food labels to help guide food purchases. countervailing trends in the use of convenience foods and dining out increase the difficulty for individuals to lower sodium intake. clinical trials that have used sodium reduction alone or in combination with other lifestyle therapies have demonstrated the feasibility of reducing dietary sodium intake from 30% to 50% for up to 4 years, in a variety of populations. trials that used lifestyle and weight loss interventions have also achieved significant reductions in body weight and alcohol consumption and increases in physical activity. a variety of studies indicate that long-term sodium reduction is feasible and that it is acceptable to patients. no negative consequences of these interventions have been observed, and in some cases improvement in the intake of other nutrients has occurred. nonpharmacological interventions have resulted in hypertension control in significant proportions of the trial populations. these studies demonstrate that the foregoing types of interventions can significantly contribute to hypertension treatment and prevention.
frontal impairment and hypoperfusion in neuroacanthocytosis. cerebral blood flow tomography, by xenon 133 inhalation or hmpao (99mtc-d, l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime) technetium tc 99m injection, revealed a severe hypoperfusion in both frontal lobes of a 40-year-old woman with confirmed neuroacanthocytosis. this finding occurred in conjunction with neuropsychological deficits consistent with selective frontal lobe dysfunction. this observation is the first documentation of this type of dementia in neuroacanthocytosis.
comparison of myelography with ct follow-up versus gadolinium mri for subarachnoid metastatic disease in children. we evaluated 17 children with primary intracranial neoplasms for subarachnoid metastatic disease (samd) using myelography with computed tomographic follow-up (myelo + ct) and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) histopathologic examination, as well as magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium dtpa (mri + gd), between december 1988 and december 1989. there were 12 boys, and the median age was 5.7 years (range, 0.8 to 21.8 years). tumor histology included 8 primitive neuroectodermal tumors (pnets), 3 ependymomas, 2 low-grade astrocytomas, 1 anaplastic astrocytoma, 1 glioblastoma multiforme, 1 atypical rhabdoid tumor, and 1 malignant fibrous histiocytoma. thirteen tumors originated in the posterior fossa, 2 were supratentorial, and 2 were in the spinal cord. the median interval between the 2 diagnostic tests was 2 days. mri + gd was positive in 11 (65%), myelo + ct in 8 (47%), and csf in 5 (29%) cases. mri + gd was superior in delineating spinal cord nodules and "sugar coating" whereas myelo + ct more readily revealed nerve root sleeve filling defects. there was no case in which myelo + ct was positive that mri + gd did not reveal samd. mri + gd is a safe, noninvasive test that should be used as the initial imaging modality for the presence of samd.
benign parotid tumour enucleation--a reliable operation in selected cases. the method of surgical treatment for benign tumours of the parotid gland had not yet been rationalized, but many authors recommend parotidectomy as the most appropriate procedure. a series of 289 operations for parotid swelling is reported; the majority of mixed and warthin's tumours underwent enucleation without either complications or recurrence. the rationale of parotidectomy versus enucleation is discussed but in fast growing, deeply infiltrating and recurrent tumours, parotidectomy appears to be the best choice. in the other group of more commonly occurring tumours, enucleation represents a reliable time saving option.
geographic variation of inflammatory bowel disease within the united states. one approach to learn about possible environmental risks in inflammatory bowel disease relates to studying its geographic pattern of occurrence. the geographic variation of inflammatory bowel disease within the united states was analyzed using the accumulated 17.5 million hospital discharges of all u.s. medicare beneficiaries during two consecutive years. to validate the geographic pattern shown by the medicare data, hospitalization was compared with mortality from inflammatory bowel disease among different states. mortality and hospitalization statistics both suggested that the occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease was determined by environmental factors that had a marked geographic variation within the united states. both crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis appeared to be more frequent in northern parts of the united states than in southern and in urban more than rural parts. these trends were observed for men and women and for blacks and whites alike. similar geographic patterns of crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis suggested the influence of one or more identical risk factors for both diseases.
regional h2o2 concentration in rat brain after hyperoxic convulsions. o2 toxicity of the central nervous system (cns) may be a result of enhanced generation of reactive o2 species such as superoxide and h2o2 at high po2. in this study, we measured h2o2 production in six regions of the rat brain before and after convulsions induced by hyperbaric hyperoxia (hbo). h2o2 concentration was determined ex vivo using a method based on the h2o2-dependent decline in catalase activity in the presence of the irreversible inhibitor of compound i, 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. regional catalase activity in the brain ranged from 0.029 +/- 0.004 to 0.055 +/- 0.004 mumol o2.min-1.micrograms dna-1 in cerebellum and medulla-pons, respectively. in the presence of aminotriazole, catalase activity declined after hbo-induced convulsions to 26-45% of normoxic values. the rates of inactivation of catalase were used to predict average steady-state values for h2o2 concentration in different brain structures. estimated h2o2 concentrations during hbo varied from 31 to 51 pm in cerebellum and posterior subcortex and represented increases of 2.2-7.3 times normoxic values. these findings suggest that h2o2 is an important mediator of selective neuronal vulnerability to cns o2 toxicity.
functional status after coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. two cohorts of consecutive patients of comparable age with similar preprocedure cardiac function who underwent either coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg; n = 106) or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca; n = 64) were entered into a prospective comparison study examining functional status and return to work during the first year of recovery. patients were evaluated using standardized functional status instruments for activities of daily living, work performance, social activity, mental health and quality of social interaction at 1, 6 and 12 months after the procedure. within the cabg group, statistically significant improvements of functional status on every subscale were noted over the 1-year follow-up. patients undergoing ptca demonstrated significant improvement in all dimensions except for the quality of interaction at 1 year as compared with baseline. when the 2 groups were compared, the ptca group demonstrated greater participation than the cabg group in routine daily physical and social activities at 1 and 6 months, but this apparent advantage disappeared by 1 year. measures of psychological functioning were better after cabg than after ptca. a reduction in the number of those with employment occurred in both the cabg and ptca groups, independent of physical functional status measures, which improved in both groups after the procedures. for those with employment, the cabg group reported the greatest improvement in work performance.
effects of changes in level and pattern of breathing on the sensation of dyspnea. breathing during hypercapnia is determined by reflex mechanisms but may also be influenced by respiratory sensations. the present study examined the effects of voluntary changes in level and pattern of breathing on the sensation of dyspnea at a constant level of chemical drive. studies were carried out in 15 normal male subjects during steady-state hypercapnia at an end-tidal pco2 of 50 torr. the intensity of dyspnea was rated on a borg category scale. in one experiment (n = 8), the level of ventilation was increased or decreased from the spontaneously adopted level (vspont). in another experiment (n = 9), the minute ventilation was maintained at the level spontaneously adopted at pco2 of 50 torr and breathing frequency was increased or decreased from the spontaneously adopted level (fspont) with reciprocal changes in tidal volume. the intensity of dyspnea (expressed as percentage of the spontaneous breathing level) correlated with ventilation (% vspont) negatively at levels below vspont (r = -0.70, p less than 0.001) and positively above vspont (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001). at a constant level of ventilation, the intensity of dyspnea correlated with breathing frequency (% fspont) negatively at levels below fspont (r = -0.69, p less than 0.001) and positively at levels above fspont (r = 0.75, p less than 0.001). these results indicate that dyspnea intensifies when the level or pattern of breathing is voluntarily changed from the spontaneously adopted level. this is consistent with the possibility that ventilatory responses to changes in chemical drive may be regulated in part to minimize the sensations of respiratory effort and discomfort.
progressive degeneration of the right temporal lobe studied with positron emission tomography. a 79 year old man with a twelve year progressive history of prosopagnosia and recent naming difficulty, in whom other intellectual skills were preserved, is described. positron emission tomography (pet) revealed an area of right temporal lobe hypometabolism, with an additional area of less severe hypometabolism at the left temporal pole. this may represent an example of progressive focal cortical degeneration similar to that associated with primary progressive dysphasia, but affecting the right temporal lobe.
increased ca2+ signaling after alpha-adrenoceptor activation in vascular hypertrophy. in an effort to explain the increased sensitivity to agonists of hypertrophic vascular muscle, intracellular ca2+ concentration ([ca2+]i)-signaling mechanisms were studied in normal and hypertrophic rat aortas from normotensive and coarctation-hypertensive rats. based on both fura 2 fluorescence and aequorin luminescence measurements, qualitatively different patterns of ca2+ mobilization occur in normal and hypertrophic rat aortic muscle. normal rat aortic muscle contracts to phenylephrine with little or no increase in [ca2+]i, whereas the angiotensin ii-induced contraction is accompanied by a marked [ca2+]i transient. in contrast, hypertrophic rat aortic muscle shows a dramatic increase in ca2+ signaling after phenylephrine stimulation. moreover, both the amplitude of the angiotensin-induced [ca2+]i transient and the contractile sensitivity to this agonist are decreased in the hypertrophic muscle. our results strongly suggest that the amplitude of the [ca2+]i transient after agonist stimulation determines the contractile sensitivity and that there is an altered coupling of the alpha-adrenoceptor in the hypertrophic vascular muscle.
occurrence of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane in breast cancer patients. the residues of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (pah) and neutral organochlorine compounds in breast fat of 44 breast cancer patients and 33 women free of cancer were determined. no statistically significant differences appeared between the two comparison groups with regard to occurrence of pah compounds. of the neutral organochlorine compounds, residues of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane (hch) were found more frequently in breast cancer patients. after adjusting for age and parity by stepwise logistic regression, beta-hch remained a significant risk factor of breast cancer. using a cutoff point for the residue level of beta-hch in breast adipose tissue of more than 0.1 mg/kg fat, the odds ratio was 10.51 (95% ci, 2.00-55.26).
adenoid cystic carcinoma of the esophagus. a clinicopathologic study of three cases. in a group of 245 cases of primary carcinoma of the esophagus the authors found three cases of adenoid cystic carcinoma (acc). clinical and pathologic data of those patients (one female and two male; age range, 49-74 years) were analyzed. tumors were localized in the middle third of the esophagus. one patient lived 15 months after surgery. another is a case of early acc who has been living 4.5 years after surgery and is without specific symptoms. the third patient had not had surgery and died 13 months after the onset of dysphagia. an autopsy showed only a locally invasive tumor growing into the surroundings of the esophagus, and regional lymph node metastases without distant parenchymal metastases. these findings support pathologic and biologic similarities between acc of the esophagus and acc of the salivary glands. there are synchronous tumors of the esophagus and the vital localization which makes the prognosis of acc of the esophagus worse than acc of the salivary glands.
penetration of the pericardium by a gastric ulcer--survival after pericardiocentesis. elderly patients often have unusual manifestations of common illnesses. we describe a geriatric patient having a pneumopericardium from pericardial penetration by a gastric ulcer. benign gastric ulceration causing perforation of the pericardium or other cardiac structures was recognized as early as 1854; however, until 1964, the condition was invariably fatal. our patient survived the episode after early pericardiocentesis and medical treatment. aspects of this uncommon clinical entity and a brief review of the literature are described.
renal vein leiomyosarcoma. the 11th case of primary leiomyosarcoma of the renal vein is reported. unique features of this case included concomitant resection of an isolated hepatic metastasis, intraoperative radiation therapy, and the use of electron microscopy and immunohistochemical stains in confirming the diagnosis. a review of the previously reported cases shows a tendency toward slow tumor growth and infrequent recurrence (18%). metastases are common (82%), primarily to the lung and liver. aggressive surgical resection and adjuvant radiation therapy, including intraoperative radiation therapy, are recommended. adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered, although its benefits at present are unclear.
comparison of omeprazole and cimetidine in reflux oesophagitis: symptomatic, endoscopic, and histological evaluations. symptomatic patients with endoscopically verified reflux oesophagitis were randomised to a double blind trial in which they received either omeprazole (20 mg once daily) or cimetidine (400 mg four times daily) for four, and if necessary, eight weeks. in an 'intention to treat' analysis, oesophagitis was found to have healed after four weeks in 77 of 137 (56%) in the omeprazole group and in 34 of 133 (26%) in the cimetidine group (p less than 0.001). by eight weeks these values were 71% and 35% respectively; p less than 0.001. histological assessments were available for 73% of the patients. at entry, 63% (66 of 104) in the omeprazole group and 60% (56 of 94) in the cimetidine group (ns) had abnormal histology. after the study, the proportions of patients who initially had had abnormal histology but who then progressed to normal were 67% (44 of 66: omeprazole) and 48% (27 of 56: cimetidine) respectively (p less than 0.001). all patients had reflux symptoms at entry. after four weeks, 46% in the omeprazole group and 22% (p less than 0.001) in the cimetidine group were asymptomatic. diary cards completed for the first two weeks showed that patients treated with omeprazole experienced fewer reflux symptoms by day and night and used fewer antacids. omeprazole, 20 mg once a day for four to eight weeks, healed a greater proportion of patients with reflux oesophagitis than cimetidine, 1.6 g per day, assessed endoscopically and histologically, and relieved more patients' symptoms.
serous papillary adenocarcinoma of the tunica vaginalis of the testis with metastasis. testicular or paratesticular neoplasms that resemble the common epithelial type of ovarian tumor are quite rare. the authors report the case of a 29-year-old man with a metastatic serous papillary adenocarcinoma arising from the tunica vaginalis. to the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of a serous carcinoma of the tunica vaginalis behaving in a malignant fashion. the fact that clinically apparent metastatic disease occurred 4 years after initial presentation suggests that development of metastases is a late event. unfortunately, the tumor has been refractory to therapy with chemotherapeutic agents with activity against ovarian malignancies.
solitary thyroid nodule: a prospective evaluation of nuclear scanning and ultrasonography. the aim of this study was to assess prospectively the value of thyroid nuclear scans and ultrasound examination in the preoperative investigation of patients with a solitary thyroid nodule. total thyroid lobectomy for a solitary thyroid nodule was performed in 68 cases. each patient had a thyroid isotope scan (except two women who were pregnant) and thyroid ultrasound examination. there were 10 (15 per cent) malignant nodules, 11 (16 per cent) benign neoplastic nodules and 47 (69 per cent) benign non-neoplastic nodules. all of the patients with malignant nodules who were scanned had a solitary cold nodule on thyroid scan, as did 40 (69 per cent) of those with benign solitary nodules. ultrasound examination of the thyroid suggested correctly that one of 16 (6 per cent) cystic lesions, four of 16 (25 per cent) complex solid-cystic lesions and three of 18 (17 per cent) of solid lesions were malignant. one lesion reported as multinodular on ultrasonography and one reported as normal also turned out to be malignant. thyroid isotope scans and ultrasound do not accurately differentiate between benign and malignant conditions and their routine use in the investigation of a solitary thyroid nodule should be abandoned.
importance of hemodynamic response to therapy in predicting survival with ejection fraction less than or equal to 20% secondary to ischemic or nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. to identify patients with left ventricular ejection fractions less than 20% who are likely to survive on tailored medical therapy after referral to transplantation, this study of 152 patients addressed the hypotheses that (1) severely elevated filling pressures initially measured at referral would not necessarily predict poor outcome, (2) survival would be best when low pulmonary wedge pressures could be achieved with therapy tailored for hemodynamic goals, and (3) coronary artery disease would be an independent risk factor for early mortality. despite an average initial ejection fraction of 0.15, cardiac index of 2.0 liters/min/m2 and pulmonary artery wedge pressure of 28 mm hg, the actuarial survival with tailored therapy was 63% at 1 year, with 34 of 41 (83%) deaths occurring suddenly. survival was not related to initial filling pressure elevation, but was best predicted by the pulmonary artery wedge pressures during therapy; patients achieving pressure of less than or equal to 16 mm hg had 1-year survival of 83 vs 38% (p = 0.0001). the other independent predictors were serum sodium and coronary artery disease. patients with high filling pressures during therapy and coronary artery disease had 21% survival at 1 year. survival after referral to transplantation with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 20% is better than previously described. patients in whom left ventricular filling pressures cannot be adequately reduced by tailored therapy, particularly if coronary artery disease is present, should be considered for early transplantation.
surgical aspects of sclerosing cholangitis. results in 178 patients. of 178 patients with sclerosing cholangitis treated since 1950, 88 patients had associated inflammatory bowel disease, 72 had no such history, and 18 had iatrogenic injury or stone disease. a total of 233 biliary operations were performed, with a 75% rate of temporary improvement after initial operation. subsequent operations resulted in a lower success rate and a higher mortality rate. radiologic findings included predominant extrahepatic, intrahepatic, and diffuse disease in 29%, 28%, and 43% of patients, respectively; no survival differences were noted. seventy-five of one hundred three deaths (73%) were related to liver failure, bleeding, or sepsis. of 14 patients undergoing portosystemic shunt, 13 died of surgical complications or related disease. orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in 16 patients and resulted in eight deaths, mainly in patients who had previously undergone extensive surgical treatment. no survival differences were seen between the patients with inflammatory bowel disease, those without the condition, or those who had colectomy. surgical treatment in patients with sclerosing cholangitis should be minimized. orthotopic liver transplantation should be offered as the treatment of choice for patients with portal hypertension, refractory cholangitis, advanced cirrhosis, or progressive liver failure.
studies on the pathogenesis of hypertension in cushing's disease and acromegaly. the pathogenesis of the hypertension associated with cushing's syndrome and with acromegaly is poorly understood. we have investigated the possible roles of sodium retention, activation of the renin-angiotensin system and increased sympathetic nervous system activity in untreated patients. in 11 patients with cushing's disease, seven of whom were hypertensive, total exchangeable sodium was normal despite increased levels of the mineralocorticoid hormones, 11-deoxy-corticosterone and corticosterone. the renin-angiotensin system was also normal. cardiac sensitivity to the beta-receptor agonist isoprenaline was increased, but this was not due to an increase in beta-adrenoceptor density. hypertension in cushing's disease is neither sodium-dependent nor angiotensin ii-mediated, but increased cardiac sensitivity to catecholamines, by increasing cardiac output, may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension. in nine patients with acromegaly (three of whom were hypertensive) total exchangeable sodium was elevated. although no correlation between blood pressure and exchangeable sodium was found, hypertension in acromegaly is probably sodium dependent. no evidence was found for a pathogenetic role for either the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone or the sympathetic nervous system.
endoscopic management of retained cystic duct stones. the finding of residual common bile duct stones after cholecystectomy is a relatively frequently encountered problem for which effective nonoperative therapy exists. retained stones in a cystic duct remnant are very rare. we present a case of multiple retained stones in a long variant cystic duct remnant following cholecystectomy and common duct exploration, which was successfully managed with endoscopic sphincterotomy and balloon extraction.
response by women aged 65-79 to invitation for screening for breast cancer by mammography: a pilot study [published erratum appears in bmj 1991 jul 27;303(6796):234] objective--to determine whether there is sufficient benefit to be gained by offering screening for breast cancer with mammography to women aged 65-79, who are not normally invited for screening. design--pilot study of women eligible for screening but not for personal invitation. the results of this study were compared with the results of routinely screened younger women (aged 50-64) from the same general practice. setting--one group general practice in south manchester. patients--the 631 women aged 65-79 on the practice list. a total of 42 (7%) were excluded by the general practitioner, and 22 (4%) invitation letters were returned by the post office. main outcome measures--response rates to invitation for screening assessed by three indices: crude population coverage ratio, crude invited population coverage ratio, and corrected invited population coverage ratio. results--344 patients aged 65-79 (61% of those invited, excluding those who could not be traced) were screened compared with 77% of women aged 50-64. the three response indices were higher for younger women than older: crude population coverage ratio = 66.5%, crude invited population coverage ratio = 69.3%, corrected invited population coverage ratio = 76.8% for women aged 50-64, compared with 54.5%, 58.4%, and 60.7% respectively for women aged 65-79. all four biopsies done in the older women gave positive results, giving a cancer detection rate of 11.6/1000 compared with 4.1/1000 among younger women. conclusions--these results show that there is a potential for high attendance at routine screening by older women if they are invited in the same way as younger women. if these results are found elsewhere the costs and benefits of screening older women should be reassessed.
visceral protothecosis mimicking sclerosing cholangitis in an immunocompetent host: successful antifungal therapy. a healthy 39-year-old man who had clinical findings consistent with sclerosing cholangitis was found to have systemic protothecosis at surgery. severe granulomatous inflammation and palpable nodules were found in the gallbladder, on the surface of the liver, and in the duodenum. prototheca wickerhamii was detected in biopsied specimens and stool; the titer of indirect fluorescent antibody to this organism was 1:2,000. the patient recovered after a short course of treatment with amphotericin b and 3 months of oral therapy with ketoconazole. he had no other concurrent illness and had no abnormality in his immune system. this is the second reported human case of systemic protothecosis. an elevated igg level, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, eosinophilia, and abnormal levels of enzymes in the liver were found in both cases. protothecosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatic and biliary inflammatory diseases of uncertain etiology.
physician response to notification of acute problems in nursing homes. a frequently cited example of physicians' alleged disinterest in nursing home patients is their failure to respond rapidly or appropriately to telephone calls about acute events or important changes in patient status. this study of 45 snfs and their 15 attached icfs evaluated the length of time required to reach physicians by phone about significant clinical changes in patients' conditions and the appropriateness and timeliness of action taken by the physicians once contact was made. calls on administrative matters, updating of orders, and similar routine calls were excluded. seven hundred and fifty calls were identified from 24-hour nursing reports; the nature of the problem and the time and details of physicians' responses were recorded from patient charts. judgment on the quality of physicians' responses was made by consensus of the regional ur committee except in the case of infections where decisions were based on detailed criteria developed in a previous study. the most frequent clinical problems were acute infections (32%), trauma (12%), gi tract disorders (11%), cardiorespiratory problems (10%), neurological disorders (7%), and diabetic control (7%). results were very encouraging: 96% of physicians' call-backs and actions were judged to be timely, and 87% of physicians' actions taken were judged to be appropriate. however, actions taken were judged inappropriate for certain specific clinical problems, ie, in 22% (54/243) of infections, 24% (4/17) of cva's, and 12% (6/49) of diabetic control problems. implications for nursing home care and recommendations for improving the response to acute problems are discussed.
clinical, radiographic, and pathological features of symptomatic rathke's cleft cysts. the clinical, radiographic, and pathological findings in 155 patients with symptomatic rathke's cleft cysts are discussed. eight patients were treated by the authors and 147 were collected in a review of the literature. this lesion occurred more often in female than male patients by a 2:1 margin, and the mean age at presentation was 38 years. the average patient had been symptomatic for nearly 3 years at the time of treatment, with the most common symptoms and signs being pituitary dysfunction, visual disturbances, and headaches. affected children generally were pituitary dwarfs. the sella was enlarged in 80% of cases, and the cyst was situated in both an intrasellar and a suprasellar location in 71%. computerized tomography revealed a low-density cystic mass with capsular enhancement in one-half of the cases. a variable appearance was seen with magnetic resonance imaging. partial excision and drainage of the cyst by the transsphenoidal approach is the recommended treatment, as the recurrence rate is low. most symptoms and signs improved or resolved following surgery with the exception of hypopituitarism and diabetes insipidus. the cyst lining was usually composed of ciliated cuboidal or columnar epithelium. theories as to the origin of rathke's cleft cysts are also discussed.
inpatient theophylline toxicity: preventable factors. objective: to identify preventable factors contributing to inpatient theophylline toxicity. design: case series. setting: tertiary care public hospital. patients: forty consecutive adult inpatients (mean age, 56.5 years) with theophylline levels greater than 140 mumol/l (25.0 mg/l). measurements and main results: a retrospective chart audit was done. toxicity was produced in 27 of 40 patients by inpatient or emergency department theophylline administration. management errors found included delay (greater than 10 hours) in taking action from time toxic blood levels were drawn (20 patients), inappropriately high dosing of patients with congestive heart failure (17 patients), failure to recognize obvious symptoms (16 patients), recurrent toxicity (11 patients), additional emergency department treatment of already toxic patients (7 patients), overlap of intravenous and oral therapy (6 patients), patient discharged with no physician awareness of toxicity or dosage change (5 patients). conclusions: a set of recurring management errors was identified as contributing to inpatient theophylline toxicity. effective preventive mechanisms could have prevented most toxicity and associated morbidity. theophylline's overall risk-benefit ratio in the inpatient setting may be less than that measured in well-controlled studies of the drug's efficacy because of these management errors.
alterations in collateral blood flow produced by isoflurane in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease. the actions of isoflurane and adenosine on left ventricular myocardial perfusion during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery were investigated in dogs chronically instrumented for measurement of systemic and coronary hemodynamics, regional myocardial contractile function (via ultrasonic sonomicrometers), and myocardial blood flow (via the radioactive microsphere technique). an ameroid constrictor was implanted on the left circumflex coronary artery to produce a slowly progressive stenosis that gradually depleted the coronary reserve of the distal vascular bed. the reductions in reserve were evaluated by daily measurement of baseline left circumflex coronary blood flow velocity and the hyperemic response to injection of adenosine. at a stage of moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis development, the left anterior descending coronary artery was totally occluded via a hydraulic occluder to simulate multivessel coronary artery disease, and control measurements of hemodynamics, regional contractile function, and myocardial blood flow were completed. in separate groups of experiments, either adenosine (0.64 and 1.28 mg/min) or isoflurane (1.6-1.8 and 2.3-2.5%, end-tidal) was administered and measurements remade during steady state hemodynamic conditions. finally, diastolic aortic pressure and heart rate were adjusted to levels present in the control state during administration of adenosine or isoflurane, and additional measurements were recorded. isoflurane reduced mean arterial pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure, and the rate of increase of left ventricular pressure at 50 mmhg (positive dp/dt50) without change in heart rate. administration of isoflurane decreased blood flow in normal, stenotic, and occluded regions; however, when arterial pressure and heart rate were restored to levels present in the conscious state, myocardial perfusion in all regions was maintained at control levels. ratios of flow between occluded and normal or stenotic zones remained unchanged from the conscious state during a constant aortic pressure and heart rate. similar results were obtained in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex coronary artery stenosis. in contrast, adenosine produced a dose-related decrease in collateral flow and occluded-to-normal or occluded-to-stenotic zone flow ratio. the results of this investigation indicate that adenosine but not isoflurane redistributes blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
simultaneous superior oblique sheathectomy and inferior oblique tuck in congenital brown's syndrome. since harold brown, in 1950, described the superior oblique tendon sheath syndrome, numerous surgical techniques have been explored to treat this condition. tenectomy of the homolateral superior oblique, alone or in combination with a weakening procedure on the homolateral inferior oblique, has been the technique most advocated. however, good functional results are rarely achieved in a single procedure, and delayed complications are frequent. taking advantage of the improved dissection and reduced trauma afforded by the use of a surgical microscope, one of the techniques first recommended and later abandoned by brown was reappraised. the technique consists of dissection of the sheath and attachments of the superior oblique, while preserving its tendon, combined with a 10mm tuck of the homolateral inferior oblique. both a typical and a severe atypical congenital case, according to the classification of brown, were treated in this fashion. full correction was achieved in both.
orthopedic complications. compartment syndrome, fat embolism syndrome, and venous thromboembolism. specialized education in the care of orthopedic patients includes an understanding of the common complications for which patients require monitoring. with a socioeconomic backdrop of decreasing hospital stays and prospective payment, patient care must be managed proactively. for all three complications presented, there are unique sets of risk factors that, when present, contribute to a high index of suspicion for morbidity. clusters of symptoms have also been discussed representing the expected normal patterns. with this knowledge as a foundation, clinical application is essential to incorporate other salient aspects of individual situations. nurses diagnose and treat human responses to health problems. the end result of human responses to injury or orthopedic conditions can be the development of complications. stringent adherence to patient monitoring protocols can promote timely nursing interventions to prevent, minimize, or detect complications or treatment side effects. although definitive treatment is often physician directed, nurses are in a key role to impact final patient outcomes.
the effect of ambulation on recovery from postoperative ileus. to determine whether ambulation hastens recovery from ileus following laparotomy, 34 patients were studied, 10 of whom followed an ambulatory regimen beginning on postoperative day 1 (group a). the other 24 patients (group c) did not become ambulatory until postoperative day 4. all patients underwent placement of seromuscular bipolar recording electrodes on the roux limb, if present, stomach, jejunum, and colon at laparotomy. group a was recorded before and after ambulation so comparisons could be made to determine if ambulation had an acute effect on myoelectric activity. group a preambulation and group c recordings were compared to judge whether there was an over-all effect of ambulation on myoelectric recovery. no effect on slow wave frequency or percentage of slow waves with associated spike potentials was noted acutely or overall in the stomach, colon, or jejunum in continuity with the duodenal pacemaker. transient increases in phase ii spike activity in patients having a roux limb and their jejunum distal to the enteroenterostomy were noted on postoperative days 1 to 2, but these differences resolved by postoperative days 3 or 4. the data suggest that ambulation as a means to help resolve postoperative ileus and its accompanying cramps and bloating may be more perceived than real.
peripheral nerve function in sepsis and multiple organ failure forty-three patients who had sepsis and multiple organ failure (critical illness) were studied prospectively to determine the incidence and severity of peripheral nerve function and to correlate such function with a number of variables. electrophysiologic studies indicated a primary axonal degeneration of motor and sensory fibers in 30 (70 percent). fifteen (30 percent) had the clinical signs of difficulty in weaning from assisted ventilation, weakness of limb muscles, and reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes. full recovery from the polyneuropathy occurred among the 23 (53 percent) who survived, except three who had a very severe polyneuropathy. a peripheral nerve function index, computed from electrophysiologic measurements, showed statistically significant (p less than 0.01) negative correlations with the time in the critical care unit, and the serum glucose value; the serum albumin level showed a positive correlation. multiple regression analyses indicated all three factors accounted for 47 percent (r2 = 0.4678) of all potential variables. in a separate analysis, the nerve function index correlated with the amplitude of the diaphragm compound muscle action potential (p less than 0.01). the results were consistent with the polyneuropathy being due to the same mechanisms that are currently postulated to cause dysfunction in this syndrome of other organ systems (including the neuromuscular respiratory system).
magnetic resonance imaging of facial nerve neuromas. facial nerve neuromas are uncommon tumors often confused with other tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle. radiologically, it may be impossible to differentiate an intracanalicular facial nerve neuroma from an acoustic neuroma. we present three case reports of facial nerve neuromas arising within the internal auditory canal to show the important magnetic resonance imaging features of these tumors. one tumor extended into the cerebellopontine angle, middle cranial fossa, and middle ear. another filled the internal auditory canal and extended through the cerebellopontine angle to the brain stem. the third occurred in a patient who had neurofibromatosis as well as numerous other intracranial tumors. we feel that gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging provides the most useful information in the preoperative assessment of this disorder.
factors influencing survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer. eighty-nine patients with carcinoma of the head of the pancreas underwent pancreaticoduodenectomies. the actuarial 5-year survival for all 89 patients was 19%, with a median survival of 11.9 months. the 81 hospital survivors were analyzed in an effort to determine factors influencing long-term survival. negative lymph nodes and the absence of blood vessel invasion both favored long-term survival. the strongest predictive factor was negative lymph node status with a median survival of 55.8 months, compared with 11 months with lymph nodes involved with tumor (p less than 0.05). blood transfusions were also predictive, with patients receiving two or fewer units having a median survival of 24.7 months, compared with 10.2 months for those receiving three or more units (p less than 0.05). the most important determinant of long-term survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer is biology of the tumor (lymph node status, blood vessel invasion). however, performance of the resection (units of blood transfused) also appears to be an important factor influencing survival.
surgical management of cervical soft disc herniation. a comparison between the anterior and posterior approach. anterior cervical fusion was initially described in the 1950s for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy. the indications for this procedure in the management of soft disc herniation have not been clearly defined. in addition, controversy exists as to whether a cervical soft herniation should be managed by an anterior approach or a posterior cervical laminotomy-foraminotomy. the authors report the results of a prospective study comparing anterior discectomy and fusion to posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy for the management of soft cervical disc herniation. twenty-eight patients underwent anterior discectomy and fusion (robinson horseshoe graft) while 16 patients underwent posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy. the disc herniations were classified into two types. type i were single level anterolateral herniations (33 patients) while type ii were central soft disc herniations (11 patients). clinically, patients with type i herniations manifested signs and symptoms of radiculopathy while patients with type ii herniations manifested signs of myelopathy or neck pain and bilateral upper extremity paresthesias in 4 patients. confirmatory studies were myelography in 12 patients, myelography combined with computed tomography (ct) in 26 patients, and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in 6 patients. for type i herniations, 17 patients underwent anterior fusion while 16 patients had a posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy. the 11 patients classified as type ii herniation all underwent anterior discectomy and fusion. there were 27 men and 17 women. the age range was 21 to 52 years (mean, 41 years). the follow-up was 1.6 to 8.2 years (mean, 4.2 years).
regressing atypical histiocytosis. aberrant prothymocyte differentiation, t-cell receptor gene rearrangements, and nodal involvement. two cases of regressing atypical histiocytosis were studied. new findings reported include the presence of cd1 epitope on large atypical histiocytoid cells and apparent early lymph node involvement. because regressing atypical histiocytosis may demonstrate aberrant thymic differentiation antigen expression and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements, initial lymph node involvement, and eventuation in conventional lymphoma in some cases, the alternative term regressing-phase anaplastic lymphoma is proposed as a more accurate designation for this entity.
reperfusion arrhythmias after thrombolysis. electrophysiologic tempest, or much ado about nothing. arrhythmias that may accompany myocardial reperfusion have generated significant clinical interest. first, there were concerns, based on animal studies, that high-grade ventricular tachyarrhythmias would pose a serious threat following thrombolytic therapy to treat an evolving myocardial infarction. second, lower-grade arrhythmias, such as accelerated idioventricular rhythm, were cited as useful, noninvasive markers of successful reperfusion. critical review of the current data, however, indicates that arrhythmias following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction are usually neither dangerous clinical events nor consistent markers of reperfusion.
hyperadrenergic orthostatic intolerance as a result of postpartum blood loss. this article describes a young women in whom orthostatic intolerance developed as a result of protracted postpartum vaginal bleeding. the cardiovascular abnormalities were unresponsive to usual treatment measures, and she required combination therapy directed at increasing plasma volume and decreasing sympathetic nervous system activity. after resolution of her symptoms, the patient required no long-term therapy. chronic blood loss has not been reported as a cause of this syndrome.
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns. extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure, but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique. one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight, gestational age, age at initiation of ecmo, best blood gases before ecmo, number of hours on ecmo, renal failure, intracerebral hemorrhage, and long-distance air transport had on survival. infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo, with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values. intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs, with few survivors in either group. these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo, giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values, is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo, whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo. each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications.
ruling out acute myocardial infarction. a prospective multicenter validation of a 12-hour strategy for patients at low risk background. although previous investigations have suggested that 24 hours is required to exclude acute myocardial infarction in patients who are admitted to a coronary care unit for the evaluation of acute chest pain, we hypothesized that a 12-hour period might be adequate for patients with a low probability of infarction at the time of admission. methods. using a bayesian model, we developed a strategy to identify candidates for a shorter period of observation from an analysis of a derivation set of 976 patients with acute chest pain who were admitted to three teaching and four community hospitals. in the derivation set, patients whose clinical characteristics in the emergency room predicted a low (less than or equal to 7 percent) probability of myocardial infarction had only a 0.4 percent risk of infarction if they had neither abnormal levels of cardiac enzymes nor recurrent ischemic pain during the first 12 hours of hospitalization. in an independent testing set of 2684 patients from the seven hospitals, 957 admitted patients (36 percent) were classified as candidates for this 12-hour period of observation according to a previously published multivariate algorithm. few of these patients were actually transferred from a monitored setting at 12 hours. results. of the 771 candidates for a 12-hour period of observation who did not have enzyme abnormalities or recurrent pain during the first 12 hours, 4 (0.5 percent) were subsequently found to have acute myocardial infarction, and only 3 (0.4 percent) died after primary cardiac arrests, all of which occurred three to five days after admission. rates of other major cardiovascular complications were low in the patients who might have been transferred from the coronary care unit after 12 hours with this strategy. in patients with a higher initial risk of infarction, the standard strategy of 24-hour observation identified all but 11 of 739 acute myocardial infarctions (1 percent). conclusions. emergency room clinical data can be used to identify a large subgroup of patients for whom a 12-hour period of observation is normally sufficient to exclude acute myocardial infarction. patient-specific evaluation and treatment can then proceed without the restrictions imposed by "rule-out" protocols for myocardial infarction.
intraoperative management of severe endobronchial hemorrhage endobronchial hemorrhage due to pulmonary artery perforation by a swan-ganz catheter developed during coronary artery bypass grafting while weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass. after reinstitution of cardio-pulmonary bypass with pulmonary artery venting, bleeding was localized to the right lower lobe bronchus using fiberoptic bronchoscopy. a fogarty embolectomy catheter was inflated in the bronchus to tamponade successfully only the right lower lobe. this case illustrates a method of distal bronchial blockade for maximal retention of pulmonary function and avoidance of pulmonary resection.
from chimney sweeps to oncogenes: the quest for the causes of cancer. over the past 200 years, a bewildering array of chemical, physical, and viral agents has been identified that can cause cancer, but the mechanisms involved are only now becoming clear. in the leukemias and lymphomas, it appears that the activation of cellular oncogenes is important. the genes involved are present in all normal cells and are often associated with cell growth and regulation. when activated, they act in a dominant fashion to cause a cell to express the malignant phenotype. there is increasing evidence that in solid tumors, a more important mechanism may be the loss of a suppressor gene. the classic example is retinoblastoma, in which the retinoblastoma gene has been cloned and is also found to be associated with several other common cancers including sarcomas and small cell lung cancer. it is likely to be one of a family of such genes. it may well be that the activation of one or more oncogenes or the loss of one or more suppressor genes, or both, is required for a tumor to progress from initiation through promotion to a metastasizing malignancy.
roentgenographic evaluation of the augmented breast. we performed a retrospective study to determine the sensitivity of mammography in detecting breast cancer arising in women with augmented breasts. of eight women with breast implants in whom breast cancer developed, six had mammograms before biopsy. only two of the six cancers were identified mammographically (sensitivity = 33%), and one of these two was seen only in retrospect. in both cases, the mammographic findings suggested a benign rather than a malignant process. all eight women had a palpable mass and early disease, and all are clinically disease-free at present. the sensitivity of mammography in detecting palpable cancers in a control group of women without implants was 92% (118 of 128). for tumors of 2 cm or less, the sensitivity was 88% (58 of 66). these results suggest that the sensitivity of mammography in detecting breast cancer is decreased when implants are present. further investigations are needed to determine the effects of prostheses on mammographic evaluations.
serological evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori may predict gastrointestinal intolerance to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis. specific circulating antibodies to the spiral gastric organism, helicobacter pylori (hp) were detectable in 43% of 68 patients with rheumatoid arthritis by complement fixation test (cft) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa), a frequency comparable with that of a normal, age-matched population. presence of these antibodies correlated strongly with a previous history of peptic ulcer disease (pud) and to the severity of nsaid-related dyspeptic symptoms, the latter often leading to multiple drug intolerance. this contrasts with short term, prospective nsaid toxicity data, which show little relationship between ulceration and hp carriage. this result suggests, however, that hp may have a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptomatic pud associated with more chronic nsaid usage, and may have important implications for ulcer prophylaxis in these patients.
typhlitis due to balantidium coli in captive lowland gorillas. typhlitis caused by balantidium coli and requiring surgical resection occurred in three captive lowland gorillas over a 30-month period. not one of the other gorillas in the colony or their keepers was ill. b. coli is distributed widely geographically and widely among mammals. asymptomatic commensalism predominates, but invasion of the colonic mucosa can produce diarrhea and dysentery and set the stage for local or systemic spread.
prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses. three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history, but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses. the importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed.
limitation of retinal injury by vitreoperfusion initiated after onset of ischemia. we tested whether vitreoperfusion, a new method of perfusing the vitreous cavity with solutions containing nutrients, can limit retinal injury if initiated after the onset of ischemia. severe bilateral ocular ischemia was induced in cats with healed lensectomy-vitrectomy wounds; 30, 60, 90, or 120 minutes later, one eye from each of 18 cats underwent vitreoperfusion while the ischemia continued for 120 minutes. the other eye simultaneously underwent either continued untreated ischemia or reinstated circulation. the histopathologic abnormalities evident after 8 days depended on the duration of ischemia. reinstated circulation yielded less retinal damage than continued ischemia. nine additional cats underwent bilateral ischemia for at least 210 minutes. vitreoperfusion was initiated in one eye after 30 minutes. in each cat, the vitreoperfused eye fared significantly better as observed histopathologically and electroretinographically. we believe that no other treatment has similarly limited retinal injury in vivo when initiated so long after total ocular ischemia has developed.
heparin as the cause of coagulopathy which may complicate grafting of the liver. disposal of heparin is accomplished rapidly by the normal liver, but the effects of ischemia, flushing and hypothermia during hepatic transplantation have not been investigated before. the results of the present study showed that neither laparotomy, hypothermia nor insertion of the portosystemic bypass seemed markedly to affect the coagulation profile, but autograft associated with 30 to 45 minutes of warm ischemia resulted in a twofold prolongation of the t1/2 heparin as calculated from sequential measurements of the activated clotting time. unexpectedly, the storage of livers for four hours in eurocollins solutions seemed to result in more rapid disappearance of heparin than in animals after laparotomy. after hepatectomy, the clearance of heparin was delayed for two hours but, thereafter, the slope of the disappearance resembled that in sham operated animals. autograft and allograft of livers in normal pigs that did not receive transfusion were also associated with changes in fibrinolysis and declining levels of fibrinogen together with severe intraoperative bleeding problems and rapid death on the operating table in 30 per cent of the pigs. while administration of heparin alone did not appear to precipitate these changes, use of the drug after dissection, mobilization and storage of the liver may release other tissue factors that activate fibrinolysis.
response of the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome to treatment of associated small-cell lung carcinoma. we evaluated the outcome in 16 patients with lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome (lems) associated with histologically verified small-cell carcinoma (scc). thirteen patients received specific tumor therapy (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or resection) and most also received pharmacologic and immunologic treatment for lems. seven of 11 patients surviving for more than 2 months after tumor therapy showed substantial neurologic improvement (1 patient being in complete remission at 7 years); in 3 of 11 improvement was transient. an emg index of disease severity (compound muscle action potential amplitude in abductor digiti minimi) was significantly increased at final follow-up (p less than 0.01; n = 11). a pretreatment amplitude greater than 3.0 mv was a good prognostic sign. we conclude that a combined treatment approach in scc-lems usually results in neurologic improvement.
management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps. our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection, either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer, is presented. a total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection. all wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap. fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing, eight of whom had no complications. only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients, with only one patient failing to heal. our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem.
divergent effects of serotonin on coronary-artery dimensions and blood flow in patients with coronary atherosclerosis and control patients background. studies in animals have shown that serotonin constricts coronary arteries if the endothelium is damaged, but in vitro studies have revealed a vasodilating effect on isolated coronary segments with an intact endothelium. to investigate the effect of serotonin in humans, we studied coronary-artery cross-sectional area and blood flow before and after the infusion of serotonin in seven patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries and in seven with coronary artery disease. methods. we measured the cross-sectional area of the coronary artery by quantitative angiography and coronary blood flow with an intracoronary doppler catheter. measurements were obtained at base line and during intracoronary infusions of serotonin (0.1, 1, and 10 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per minute, for two minutes). we repeated the measurements after an infusion of ketanserin, an antagonist of serotonin receptors that is thought to block the effect of serotonin on receptors in the arterial wall but not in the endothelium. results. in patients with normal coronary arteries, the highest dose of serotonin increased cross-sectional area by 52 percent (p less than 0.001) and blood flow by 58 percent (p less than 0.01). the effect was significantly potentiated by administration of ketanserin. in patients with coronary-artery atherosclerosis, serotonin reduced cross-sectional area by 64 percent (p less than 0.001) and blood flow by 59 percent (p less than 0.001). ketanserin prevented this effect. conclusions. serotonin has a vasodilating effect on normal human coronary arteries; when the endothelium is damaged, as in coronary artery disease, serotonin has a direct, unopposed vasoconstricting effect. when considered with other evidence, these data suggest that platelet-derived factors such as serotonin may have a role in certain acute coronary ischemic syndromes.
survey of adolescents with severe intellectual handicap. a diagnostic survey was undertaken of children aged 11 to 19 years in tameside with severe learning difficulties (intelligence quotient less than or equal to 50). eighty-two children were identified and their medical records reviewed. a specific diagnosis for the retardation was documented in 25 (30%) of the children, 18 of whom had down's syndrome. a probable aetiology or a disorder of unknown aetiology had been identified in a further 21 (26%) children. to confirm the existing diagnosis, identify new diagnoses, and offer genetic counselling, the parents of 63 children were offered detailed reassessment of their child. fifty three children were reviewed, and a specific disorder identified in 25 out of 31 previously undiagnosed children. the most frequent diagnoses made were fragile x syndrome and rett's syndrome. on completion of the survey, 61 of the 82 children (74%) had a specific diagnosis or probable aetiology identified, 12 (15%) had associated disorders such as cerebral palsy, and in only nine of the 82 children (11%) were there no clues at all to the cause of their retardation.
ultrasonic evaluation of early carotid atherosclerosis. we investigated the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis, including mild early lesions, and its association with cervical bruits and various risk factors (age, male sex, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, obesity, and cigarette smoking) in 232 consecutive japanese patients. high-resolution real-time b-mode ultrasonography was performed to determine the extent of atherosclerosis, and it was quantified by using a scoring system. the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis was 49%, 59%, and 41% in all 232 patients, the 100 symptomatic patients, and the 132 asymptomatic patients, respectively. although carotid lesions were detected frequently (87%) in the 30 patients with cervical bruits, bruits were noted in only 30% of the 88 examined patients with carotid atherosclerosis. independent risk factors for carotid atherosclerosis in these patients were found to be age, male sex, and hyperlipidemia; diabetes mellitus was a possible risk factor for carotid atherosclerosis. our study did not show a close association between hypertension and carotid atherosclerosis, and this might be caused by the high prevalence of hypertension in our patients. our findings suggest an increasing prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis in the japanese, though this should be confirmed in a population-based study. our study demonstrates the clinical usefulness of high-resolution b-mode ultrasonography for the evaluation of early carotid atherosclerosis.
granular cell tumor of the esophagus: endoscopic ultrasonographic demonstration and endoscopic removal. a 35-yr-old japanese man with a granular cell tumor of the esophagus that was removed by endoscopic polypectomy is presented. radiography and endoscopy showed a 20 x 12 mm sessile protrusion in the distal esophagus. endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated the hypoechoic mass in the submucosa without continuity to the muscularis propria. the lesion was successfully treated by endoscopic polypectomy without complications. the cross-sections of the resected specimen were quite in agreement with the ultrasonographic findings. endoscopic ultrasonography is valuable to assess the exact location and extent of the tumor, and to determine the indication for endoscopic polypectomy.
coexpression patterns of vimentin and glial filament protein with cytokeratins in the normal, hyperplastic, and neoplastic breast. the authors studied by immunohistochemistry the intermediate filament (if) protein profile of 66 frozen samples of breast tissue, including normal parenchyma, all variants of fibrocystic disease (fcd), fibroadenomas, cystosarcoma phylloides, and ductal and lobular carcinomas. monoclonal antibodies (mabs) to cytokeratins included mab ka 1, which binds to polypeptide 5 in a complex with polypeptide 14 and recognizes preferentially myoepithelial cells; mab ka4, which binds to polypeptides 14, 15, 16 and 19; individual mabs to polypeptides 7, 13, and 16, 17, 18, and 19, and the mab mixture ae1/ae3. the authors also applied three mabs to vimentin (vim), and three mabs to glial filament protein (gfp). selected samples were studied by double-label immunofluorescence microscopy and by staining sequential sections with some of the said mabs, an mab to alpha-smooth muscle actin, and well-characterized polyclonal antibodies for the possible coexpression of diverse types of cytoskeletal proteins. gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis also were performed. all samples reacted for cytokeratins with mabs ae1/ae3, although the reaction did not involve all cells. monoclonal antibody ka4 stained preferentially the luminal-secretory cells in the normal breast and in fcd, whereas it stained the vast majority of cells in all carcinomas. monoclonal antibody ka1 stained preferentially the basal-myoepithelial cells of the normal breast and fcd while staining tumor cell subpopulations in 4 of 31 carcinomas. vimentin-positive cells were found in 8 of 12 normal breasts and in 12 of 20 fcd; in most cases, vim-reactive cells appeared to be myoepithelial, but occasional luminal cells were also stained. variable subpopulations of vim-positive cells were noted in 9 of 20 ductal and in 1 of 7 lobular carcinomas. glial filament protein-reactive cells were found in normal breast lobules and ducts and in 15 of 20 cases of fcd; with rare exceptions, gfp-reactivity was restricted to basally located, myoepithelial-appearing cells. occasional gfp-reactive cells were found in 3 of 31 carcinomas. evaluation of sequential sections and double-label immunofluorescence microscopy showed the coexpression of certain cytokeratins (possibly including polypeptides 14 and 17) with vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin together with gfp in some myoepithelial cells. the presence of gfp in myoepithelial cells was confirmed by gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. our results indicate that coexpression of cytokeratin with vimentin and/or gfp is comparatively frequent in normal basal-myoepithelial cells of the breast.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
carotid artery disease in patients with head and neck carcinoma. irradiation has been shown experimentally to cause accelerated development of atherosclerosis in exposed large arteries. however, occurrence of such an entity in carotid arteries of patients after treatment for head and neck carcinoma is unknown. therefore, we reviewed 179 patient charts who had undergone head and neck operations with or without irradiation between 1979-1987. of these 179 patients, 107 (59.8%) were dead at time of follow-up. cause of death was unknown in 42 (40%) patients; in the remainder included: respiratory arrest--33; carcinoma-related--18; cardiac--6;pneumonia--7; and trauma--1. average interval from treatment to death was 23.5 months. of the 72 patients known to be alive, follow-up was obtained in 52 patients. their average age was 64.9 years. risk factors for atherosclerosis included: male gender--43; smoking--50; hypertension--9; diabetes--4; coronary artery disease--12; and peripheral vascular disease--4. seventy-five per cent of these patients received postoperative irradiation. average follow-up was 64.5 months. duplex scans were performed on 34 patients. three patients had common or internal carotid stenoses greater than 75 per cent. all of these patients had received irradiation and none of them were symptomatic. seven patients had carotid stenoses between 50 to 75 per cent; five of these had received irradiation. of these five patients, one had a stroke 60 months postoperatively, and one had a tia 36 months postoperatively. the remaining 58 patients (of which 48 had irradiation) had carotid stenoses less than 50 per cent and none were symptomatic.
hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas in a patient with hepatitis a. hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas were found in a 30-year-old patient with serologically confirmed hepatitis a. other causes associated with the presence of fibrin-ring granulomas in the liver, such as hodgkin's and non-hodgkin's lymphoma, cytomegalovirus infection, visceral leishmaniasis, and consumption of allopurinol, were ruled out. it is suggested that hepatitis a must be included in the differential diagnosis of a patient with hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas.
neurogenic control of the cerebral circulation during global ischemia. the influence of the trigeminal nerve on the cerebral circulation was investigated in chronically denervated cats during and after reversible four-vessel occlusion for 10 minutes combined with controlled hypotension (50 mm hg). postocclusive hyperemia 30 minutes after reperfusion was attenuated by up to 48% in cortical gray matter of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral artery territories on the side of trigeminal ganglionectomy. similar results were observed for denervation accomplished by direct surgical ablation and by the topical application of capsaicin to a cortical branch of the middle cerebral artery. denervation did not alter basal cerebral blood flow or the duration of hyperemia, nor did it impair the cerebrovascular response to hypercapnia. these data demonstrate the importance of neurogenic mechanisms in the development of postischemic hyperperfusion and suggest that strategies directed at blocking axon reflex-like mechanisms may be beneficial in reducing the morbidity that follows severe cortical hyperemia.
bronchiolar inflammation and fibrosis associated with smoking. a morphologic cross-sectional population analysis. the lungs of 42 smokers and 13 nonsmoking males of various ages who died suddenly and unexpectedly were examined grossly using gough-wentworth whole-lung sections and by microscopic planimetry to assess the severity and prevalence of emphysema. the bronchioles in representative histologic sections were evaluated for inflammation and epithelial metaplasia as well as for fibrosis and muscular hypertrophy. postmortem interviews with next of kin established a history of cigarette smoking and excluded possible occupational exposures to toxic or particulate inhalants. emphysematous changes were not prominent in members of the study group, but they tended to be more severe in smokers (p = 0.059) and increased in severity with age (p less than 0.001). inflammatory changes (so-called smoker's bronchiolitis) were evident in smokers of all ages, although they were significantly less prominent in the lungs of older smokers. on the other hand, respiratory and membranous bronchiolar wall fibrosis was increasingly evident in older smokers (p less than 0.05). muscular hypertrophy in the bronchiolar walls was significantly greater in smokers, but a change with age was not observed. these findings strongly suggest that bronchiolar fibrosis is associated with chronic cigarette use. these lesions occur independently of emphysema and may account for some of the subtle physiologic alterations observed in smokers.
intramuscular hemangioma in the oral region: report of three cases. the occurrence of intramuscular hemangioma in an intraoral or perioral localization is rare, and a thorough knowledge of these tumors is necessary for adequate diagnosis and treatment. three cases are presented with discussion, and their histopathology and differential diagnosis are discussed. an adequate primary excision is necessary to avoid recurrence.
rupture of a giant carotid aneurysm after extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery. we report a case of a fatal rupture of a previously unruptured giant aneurysm of the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery (ica), which occurred after an extracranial-intracranial (ec-ic) bypass and the partial occlusion of the ica. interim angiography showed retrograde filling of the proximal middle cerebral artery to the aneurysm. there have been four previously reported cases of giant aneurysms rupturing after treatment with an ec-ic bypass and carotid ligation, and it appears likely that a change in pressure/flow dynamics produced by the bypass may have been the cause. the technique of carotid ligation with an ec-ic bypass is used frequently to treat unclippable intracranial aneurysms, and the resulting hemodynamic changes need to be considered carefully to prevent this type of complication. to minimize hemodynamic stress on the aneurysm, we suggest that 1) the bypass caliber should be as small as possible consistent with sufficient cerebral blood flow after ica occlusion, and 2) complete ica occlusion should be performed as soon as possible after the bypass.
colon cancer in pregnancy with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level at presentation. a case of colon cancer in pregnancy is presented in which the maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level was elevated. failure to evaluate colon cancer as a cause of the elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein may have accounted for the poor outcome.
the origin and fate of complex coronary lesions. complex irregular coronary artery stenoses, representing plaque rupture/thrombosis, are associated with the acute coronary syndromes. however, the natural history (origin and fate) of these lesions is not known. to examine this issue we studied 255 patients who had had two to four arteriograms within a mean interval of 2.6 +/- 1.7 years. of 53 irregular lesions that had progressed on a later arteriogram, 35 (66%) originated from areas that were smooth and less than 50% in stenosis diameter. of 44 irregular lesions on an earlier study, 10 (23%) became totally occluded, five (11%) progressed in severity (all remained irregular), 25 (57%) showed no change in severity (all remained irregular), and four (9%) regressed (two became smooth). nine of the 10 lesions progressing to occlusion were greater than or equal to 95% stenosed on the earlier study. only 2 of 44 lesions (5%) showed smoothing. these findings are in agreement with the concept that irregular lesions represent ruptured atherosclerotic plaques and demonstrate that they usually originate from mildly occlusive smooth plaques. markedly narrowed irregular lesions (greater than or equal to 95% stenosis) frequently progress to occlusion. irregular lesions less than 90% narrowed commonly remain angiographically stable, and irregular over several years. they were found rarely to evolve into smooth-walled plaques.
absent or minimal cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities in haemophilus influenzae meningitis. a case of haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) meningitis in which the diagnosis and treatment were delayed because of normal cerebrospinal fluid analysis is presented. a retrospective review was conducted at two children's hospitals to determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of patients with hib meningitis whose spinal fluid had a normal total white blood cell count, normal chemistries, and negative gram stain, but subsequent growth of hib in culture. of 379 cases of hib meningitis, two had completely normal csf, and two had csf containing small numbers of polymorphonuclear cells as the sole abnormality. in three of the four cases, the duration of symptoms was less than 24 hours, and appropriate therapy was significantly delayed because of benign-appearing csf. normal csf cell counts, chemistries, and gram stain do not exclude the possibility of bacterial meningitis, and one should remain suspicious when a child has clinical findings suggesting meningitis.
hypophosphatemia and renal tubular dysfunction in alcoholics. are they related to liver function impairment? the study was designed to evaluate (a) the role of reduced renal phosphate reabsorptive capacity assessed as the ratio of maximum capacity for renal phosphate reabsorption (tmpo4) to glomerular filtration rate (gfr) in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics, (b) possible mechanisms leading to reduced tmpo4/gfr, and (c) the effect of liver function impairment on tmpo4/gfr. the tmpo4/gfr, its major extrarenal determinants, ratios of urinary excretion gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and of alpha-glucosidase to gfr (uggt/gfr and uagl/gfr), indices of structural damage of renal tubular cells, and fractional clearance of lysozyme, an index of proximal renal function, were evaluated in 31 alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease, 24 alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease, 14 patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease, and 25 control subjects. hypophosphatemia was found in 35% of alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease, 29% of alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease, and no patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease. a reduced tmpo4/gfr was the major determinant of hypophosphatemia in both groups of alcoholics. no difference in extrarenal determinants of tmpo4/gfr was found between alcoholics with and without hypophosphatemia. alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease had increased uggt/gfr and normal uagl/gfr regardless of serum phosphate level. fractional clearance of lysozyme, instead, was increased only in hypophosphatemic alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease. the tmpo4/gfr correlated inversely with the fractional clearance of lysozyme in both groups of alcoholics (p less than 0.01). the tmpo4/gfr and urinary enzymes were normal in patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease. it was concluded that a reduced tmpo4/gfr is involved in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics. a proximal tubular dysfunction seems to be responsible for the reduced tmpo4/gfr. liver function impairment is not required for the expression of this tubular dysfunction.
a retrospective study of spontaneous remission and long-term outcome in patients with infantile spasms. the spontaneous remission rate and long-term outcome in 44 patients with infantile spasms not treated with hormonal drugs were studied. the cumulative spontaneous remission rate during the first 12 months after onset of infantile spasms, as determined by retrospective analysis, was as follows: 1 month, 2%; 2 months, 2%; 3 months, 5%; 4 months, 7%; 5 months, 9%; 6 months, 11%; 7 months, 11%; 8 months, 14%; 9 months, 16%; 10 months, 18%; 11 months, 25%; 12 months, 25%. the average age at follow-up was 80 months. nine percent of patients had normal development or only mild impairment. the remainder showed various degrees of retardation. these data should be useful in the design and interpretation of therapeutic drug trials in patients with infantile spasms.
intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus infection in patients with aids. intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection in patients with aids is the most common life-threatening condition requiring emergency celiotomy in these patients. the authors describe a patient with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection, and review 14 additional cases reported in the english-language surgical literature. the diagnostic triad of pneumoperitoneum on x-ray, evidence or history of cmv infection, and aids occurred in 70 percent of patients. the most common site of intestinal perforation was the colon (53 percent), followed in frequency by the distal ileum (40 percent) and appendix (7 percent); perforation usually occurred between the distal ileum and splenic flexure of the colon. colonoscopy, rather than sigmoidoscopy, is recommended as a screening examination in patients with aids suspected of having colonic ulceration due to cmv infection. multiple biopsies of ulcerated tissue should be obtained. gross and microscopic analyses of involved intestinal tissue reveal the characteristic findings of ulceration and cmv infection. despite aggressive therapy, the operative mortality rate in patients with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection was 54 percent and the overall mortality rate was 87 percent. postoperative complications occurred in most patients and consisted mainly of systemic sepsis and pneumonia caused by pneumocystis carinii infection. an increased awareness of this syndrome by physicians frequently called on to manage patients with aids is recommended.
clinical and anatomical considerations for nonoperative therapy in tibial disease and the results of angioplasty. for a 6-year period, 96 patients had 146 below-knee angioplasties. there were 31 total occlusions and 95 multiple stenoses. all patients had distal ischemia, and 40% had gangrene. the primary success rate was 97%, and the 2-year limb salvage rate was 83%. the ankle/brachial index increased from a mean of 0.25 before the procedure to 0.62 afterward. at 2 years (35 patients), the mean ankle/brachial index was 0.55. for the same period, 320 femorodistal bypasses were performed. the results of angioplasty are comparable to those of surgery, but angioplasty is only suitable in about 20-30% of patients presenting with isolated tibial disease. suitable lesions are five or fewer stenoses and occlusions 5 cm or less in length.
outcome of hepatitis b virus infection in homosexual men and its relation to prior human immunodeficiency virus infection. to investigate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infection on subsequent hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection, hiv antibody was sought in homosexual men who developed hbv infection during a hepatitis b vaccine trial. among 134 unvaccinated hiv-1-negative men, 7% became hbv carriers, 64% had viremia, and 42% had clinical illness. among vaccinated hiv-1-negative men, hbv infection severity decreased with number of vaccine doses administered. when adjusted for prior hepatitis b vaccination status, persons with hiv-1 infection preceding hbv infection had a significantly higher risk of developing hbv carriage, viremia, prolonged alt elevation, and clinical illness. among hiv-1-infected men, the risk of hbv carriage was increased in unvaccinated persons (21%) and those who failed to respond to vaccination (31%) and further increased in those who received vaccine doses at the time they developed new hbv infection (56%-80%), suggesting inactivated hepatitis b vaccine may temporarily impair the immune response to hbv infection in hiv-1-infected persons. hiv-1 infection was also associated with reduced alanine aminotransferase elevations during the first 36 months of follow-up of men who became hbv carriers.
peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. in 1989, the centers for disease control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing l-tryptophan. we evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies. the neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities. two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden. sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities. electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination, with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally. examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2. levels of quinolinic acid, a neurotoxic metabolite of l-tryptophan, were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured. the cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils, l-tryptophan, its metabolic products, or contaminants within l-tryptophan preparations.
metabolic considerations in hypertension. the frequent concurrence of other cardiovascular risk factors in hypertensive patients, such as obesity and diabetes mellitus, suggests that overlapping genetic and environmental factors may contribute to the common metabolic and cardiovascular derangements observed in these populations. hypertension and hyperglycemia accelerate atherosclerosis in diabetics, and play an important role in associated morbidity and mortality. several abnormalities in blood pressure regulatory systems such as the renin-angiotensin system, the sympathetic nervous system, and sodium/volume control have been described in diabetes mellitus. sodium retention and cardiovascular hyperreactivity appear to occur early in the course of diabetes mellitus, even at normal blood pressure levels and before onset of renal failure, and could set the stage for the development of hypertension. the relationship between obesity and hypertension is also well-established, and may reflect metabolic and cardiovascular adaptations in obese subjects which predispose to blood pressure elevations. obese subjects display changes in sympathetic nervous system activity, sodium metabolism, and vascular hemodynamics. sodium-sensitive blood pressure responses in the obese may be secondary to increased cardiac output or fluid volume, and are directly related to circulating insulin levels. certain metabolic and vascular characteristics of obesity and diabetes mellitus are found in patients with essential hypertension. it has been suggested that insulin and insulin resistance may be the common link between these risk factors. improved understanding of metabolic considerations in the treatment of obese and diabetic hypertensives should lead to more careful selection of medications that avoid metabolic complications. although diuretics and beta-blockers may be useful in some patients, there are several reasons not to recommend their use as initial therapy in obese and diabetic hypertensives. on the other hand, calcium channel blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are highly effective, with minimal effects on metabolic parameters, and are well-suited as first-line therapy in the treatment of obese and diabetic hypertensives.
morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions. clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse: 15 patients, aged 16 to 69 years (mean 39), died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy (hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse); the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal. of the latter 41 patients, 7, aged 17 to 59 years (mean 45), had associated congenital heart disease, and 34 patients, aged 17 to 70 years (mean 52), had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities. compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal, the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger (mean age 39 +/- 17 versus 52 +/- 15 years; p = 0.01), more often women (67% versus 26%; p = 0.008) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation (7% versus 38%; p = 0.02). the 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae (29% versus 67%; p = 0.04). the frequency of increased heart weight (67% versus 59%), a dilated mitral valve anulus (80% versus 81%), a dilated tricuspid valve anulus (17% versus 17%), an elongated anterior mitral leaflet (86% versus 54%), an elongated posterior mitral leaflet (79% versus 77%) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet (73% versus 63%) was similar between the two groups. the severity of the prolapse (mild 20% versus 11%; moderate 27% versus 58%; severe 53% versus 32%) also was similar between the two groups. thus, persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation.
human papillomavirus in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. thirty seven cases of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma were studied by applying dna slot blot analysis and in situ hybridisation using type specific probes for hpv 6, 11, 16 and 18. cases of condyloma accuminata, cervical carcinoma, and laryngeal papilloma were used as controls. blocks including areas of invasive carcinoma, intraepithelial neoplasia, and normal epithelium were studied in each case. no hpv genome was detectable in any of the oesophageal cases. it is concluded that these types of hpv do not have an association with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
the effects of interleukin-6 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes derived from human renal cell cancer. tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (til) are a heterogeneous population of t cells with potent antitumor activity against a wide variety of tumors. til from renal cell cancer (rcc) typically exhibit diminished growth and antitumor activity after four weeks in vitro. we have therefore investigated effects of varying doses of interleukin-6 (il-6) (0, 25, 100 units/ml.) on in vitro expansion, proliferation, cytotoxicity, and expression of cell surface phenotypes of long term renal til cultures from three rcc patients. among the various conditions tested, three of three til cultures displayed a mild increase in cell expansion when grown in il-2 with the addition of 100 units/ml. of il-6. two of three til cultures grown in il-2 and 100 u/ml. of il-6 demonstrated enhanced proliferation as determined by 3h-thymidine uptake. til could not be isolated or maintained in vitro when grown in the presence of il-6 alone without il-2. il-6 was also found to enhance the long term non-specific cytotoxicity against an allogeneic nonrenal tumor target. no consistent effect on autologous tumor-specific cytotoxicity was demonstrated. we conclude that il-6, when used in combination with il-2, may modestly enhance the long-term growth of rcc-derived til.
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a novel mediator in experimental stroke in rabbits. platelet-activating factor is a potent mediator of inflammation, which has untoward effects on cerebrovascular and neural elements. while several investigators have reported attenuation of ischemic damage after treatment with antagonists of platelet-activating factor, no study has proved endogenous production of platelet-activating factor in ischemia of the central nervous system. we hypothesized that endogenous production of platelet-activating factor participates in the early pathologic manifestations of deteriorating stroke. in 12 rabbits, we found tissue levels of platelet-activating factor measured by the release of serotonin from washed platelets to be elevated by approximately 20-fold in spinal cord injured by 25 minutes of ischemia and 2 hours of reperfusion (2.80 +/- 0.98 ng/g) compared with that in normal spinal cord (0.15 +/- 0.06 ng/g, p less than 0.01). given during ischemia to seven rabbits, 10 mg/kg i.p. of a highly selective and potent antagonist of platelet-activating factor (bn 50739) accentuated the early postischemic hyperemia and prevented the delayed hypoperfusion measured by on-line laser-doppler flowmetry (-35 +/- 7% of baseline [n = 7] without versus 33 +/- 14% with treatment, p less than 0.01) and the edema formation measured as the increase in tissue water content (4.4 +/- 0.7% without [n = 6] versus 2.1 +/- 0.6% with [n = 7]treatment, p less than 0.05) after 2 hours of reperfusion. this neurochemical and pharmacologic evidence emphasizes a new perspective of ischemia-induced phospholipid degradation and suggests an important role for platelet-activating factor in the early manifestations of stroke.
cardiovascular responses to arm cranking and fns-induced leg exercise in paraplegics. twelve spinal cord-injured males performed arm-crank exercise (ace) with and without concurrent functional neuromuscular stimulation (fns) of paralyzed leg muscles to investigate the hypothesis that fns would augment cardiovascular performance during submaximal ace. six men who exhibited vigorous isometric contractions of thigh and calf muscles were classed as "responders" to fns (r), and the remaining subjects with poor or nonexistent contractions served as "nonresponder controls" (c). steady-state heart rate and oxygen uptake during ace at 30, 60, and 90 w were not appreciably different from the ace + fns condition. however, cardiac outputs in r were augmented by 30% during fns at rest (from 4.9 to 6.4 l/min), by 18% during 30-w ace + fns (from 8.6 to 10.1 l/min), and by 28% during 90-w ace + fns (from 12.1 to 15.6 l/min). similarly, resting stroke volumes were increased by 18% (9 ml) and by 23% (19 ml) at 60 w during fns in the r group. calculated total peripheral resistance was reduced at rest and during 90-w ace + fns by approximately 24%. in contrast, no alterations of circulatory hemodynamics were observed for c subjects. these data indicate that fns-induced contractions of paralyzed leg muscles augment venous return to aid central cardiovascular control during upper-body submaximal exercise in paraplegics.
chondrosarcoma of the soft tissues. two different sub-groups. chondrosarcomas arising from soft tissues are rare. two different varieties are described, myxoid and mesenchymal. we have collected nine cases of the tumour, five myxoid and four mesenchymal, from a review of 513 cases of chondrosarcoma seen between 1904 and 1988. we report the principal clinical, radiographical and histological differences between the two varieties and discuss their surgical treatment and prognosis.
cerebral venous thrombosis: new causes for an old syndrome? the range of disorders affecting the cerebral veins and sinuses is increasing and now includes blood disorders, abnormalities in the patterns of blood flow, and infiltrative or inflammatory conditions, all of which may promote thrombosis. we describe 10 patients with cerebral venous thrombosis: two had protein s deficiency, one had protein c deficiency, one was in early pregnancy, and there was a single case of each of the following: dural arteriovenous malformation, intracerebral arteriovenous malformation, bilateral glomus tumours, systemic lupus erythematosus, wegener's granulomatosis, non-hodgkin's lymphoma. the recognition of such diverse aetiology may be importance since clinical features are non-specific, and may consist only of raised intracranial pressure, allowing confusion with 'benign intracranial hypertension'. the existence of effective treatment both for the thrombosis and for many of the underlying disorders makes early diagnosis essential. the prognosis of treated patients may be favourable.
central neurogenic hyperventilation in invasive laryngeal carcinoma. we describe a patient with central neurogenic hyperventilation secondary to extension of a laryngeal tumor into the base of the brain, resulting in extrinsic compression of the medulla. such an association has not been previously described. unique features which distinguish this patient from previously reported cases are emphasized. possible mechanisms involved in pathogenesis, as well as types of therapy, are outlined.
'locked-in syndrome' for 27 years following a viral illness: clinical and pathologic findings. we describe a man who, after a presumed encephalitic illness, was "locked-in" for 27 years. his ct and autopsy findings showed atrophy of the brainstem and a cystic lesion at the base of the pons. he survived longer than most other patients in a similar state.
snow skiing for the physically disabled. the sport of snow skiing by the physically disabled, which originated in europe in 1935 and first received attention in the united states in the 1940s, is reviewed in terms of opportunities available, instructions, adaptive equipment necessary, and benefits provided. persons with a wide variety of disabilities (such as cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, hemiplegia, amputation, blindness, spina bifida, and muscular dystrophy) can participate. accordingly, a wide range of adaptive equipment is available--including outrigger skis, flip-skis, canting wedges, ski bras, "toe spreaders," sit-skis, and mono-skis--to allow safe enjoyment of the sport. programs for instruction of the disabled skier are increasing in number and popularity, and numerous opportunities are available to enter competitive events sponsored by national handicapped sports. both the participants and the instructors relate the numerous physical and psychologic benefits that can be derived from skiing; the sport provides an almost universal enjoyment of the sense of freedom and independence. snow skiing is an enjoyable, beneficial, outdoor cold-weather activity that the disabled population can safely learn with proper instruction.
improved biocompatibility by postfixation treatment of aldehyde fixed bovine pericardium. long-standing release of locally cytotoxic aldehyde concentrations is responsible for lack of spontaneous endothelialization and increased calcification of glutaraldehyde fixed bovine pericardium. postfixation treatment with amino acids made in vitro endothelialization of bioprosthetic heart valves possible. such treated pericardium calcified significantly less (13 +/- 4 micrograms/mg dry weight) than did conventionally processed pericardium (114 +/- 25 micrograms/mg) after 63 days of subcutaneous implantation in rats. to test the ability for spontaneous in vivo endothelialization, 5 sheep had 6 mm grafts made from postfixation treated pericardium (ptp) implanted into the carotid artery, compared to ptfe grafts on the contralateral side, which spontaneously endothelialize in animal models. in a pregnant animal, both grafts occluded. all remaining pericardial grafts remained patent, but one additional ptfe graft occluded and another one was stenosed. the area covered with red thrombus was significantly smaller in the ptp grafts (3.05 +/- 3.9%) than in the ptfe grafts 42 +/- 14% (p = 0.0036); tem and sem showed endothelial cells growing directly on the ptp, but only on myofibroblasts in ptfe grafts. postfixation treatment of glutaraldehyde fixed pericardium aids spontaneous endothelialization and decreases tissue calcification.
early hospital discharge of children with cancer treated for fever and neutropenia: identification and management of the low-risk patient. children with leukemia and solid tumors are often hospitalized for empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy because of fever during periods of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. conventional practice dictates that parenteral antibiotics be continued until the patient is afebrile and has recovered from neutropenia, ie, until the absolute neutrophil count (anc) exceeds 500 cells per cubic millimeter. however, the practice in our center has been to discontinue parenteral antibiotic therapy and discharge many such patients before resolution of neutropenia. since the feasibility and safety of this approach has not been studied, we reviewed the records of 114 consecutive hospitalizations for fever and neutropenia in 61 patients during a 13-month period. seventy-seven children (68%) were discharged to their homes while still neutropenic after they had been afebrile for 1 to 2 days on parenteral antibiotics, had negative blood cultures, appeared well, and usually had some evidence of bone marrow recovery. five patients (4.4%) developed recurrent fever and required rehospitalization within 7 days of discharge. only three of the 77 patients (3.9%) who were sent home with neutropenia had recurrent fever. each had a brief and uneventful second hospitalization. two of the 37 children discharged with an anc over 500 cells per cubic millimeter required rehospitalization. a declining anc and advanced malignancy were risk factors in predicting recurrence of fever following discharge. a rising monocyte count was a predictor of imminent recovery from neutropenia. these results suggest that "early" discharge of an afebrile yet still neutropenic patient is safe when the patient is in remission, has no evidence of serious infection, appears clinically stable, and has indications of bone marrow recovery. the conventional approach of routinely continuing the hospitalization until resolution of neutropenia may be unnecessary in such low-risk patients.
selective inhibition by a synthetic hirudin peptide of fibrin-dependent thrombosis in baboons. to determine the importance of the thrombin substrate recognition exosite for fibrinogen binding in the formation of both arterial and venous thrombi, we evaluated the antithrombotic effects of the tyrosine-sulfated dodecapeptide from residues 53-64 of hirudin (h peptide) in a nonhuman primate model. this peptide was studied because it inhibits thrombin cleavages of fibrinogen by simple competition without blocking enzyme catalytic-site function. when an exteriorized arteriovenous access shunt model was used in baboons (papio anubis), thrombus formation was induced by placing a thrombogenic device made of (i) a segment of tubing coated covalently with type i collagen, which generated platelet-rich thrombi under arterial flow conditions, and (ii) two subsequent annular regions of flow expansion that produced fibrin-rich thrombi typically associated with venous valves and veins. thrombus formation was quantified by measurements of 111in-labeled platelet and 125i-labeled fibrinogen deposition in both arterial-flow and venous-flow portions of the device. continuous infusion of h peptide (0.5, 15, and 75 mg/kg) proximal to the device for 40 min interrupted, in a dose-response fashion, formation of fibrin-rich thrombus in the regions of disturbed flow and generation of fibrinopeptide a. in contrast, h peptide did not inhibit the capacity of platelets to deposit on the collagen surface (p greater than 0.2 at all doses) or to form hemostatic plugs (as assessed by measurements of bleeding time; p greater than 0.1 at all doses). these findings suggest that, by competitive inhibition of fibrinogen binding to thrombin, fibrin-rich venous-type thrombus formation may be selectively prevented. this strategy may be therapeutically attractive for preserving normal platelet function when conventional anticoagulant therapy is contraindicated.
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients. in this prospective study, mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990. sixteen patients had prior surgery; 13 had prior radiotherapy. in 11 patients, prior radiation and surgery had failed. sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions. twelve patients had complications of either intraoral (8), extraoral (5), or combined (1) plate exposure or fistula formation (2). factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition, accelerated radiation, and recurrence. sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully. when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded, the success rate was 73%. only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair.
utility of upper endoscopy in the evaluation of noncardiac chest pain. the diagnostic yield of esophagogastroduodenoscopy, esophageal manometry, and bernstein testing was assessed in 100 consecutive patients being evaluated for non-cardiac chest pain. manometric studies revealed the nutcracker esophagus in 21 patients; non-specific esophageal motility disorders in 19 patients; a hypertensive lower esophageal sphincter in 4 patients; diffuse esophageal spasm in 2 patients; and normal motility in 54 patients. endoscopy was normal in 38 patients; but revealed grades ii to iv esophagitis in 24 patients; gastritis and/or duodenitis in 18 patients; a sliding hiatal hernia without evidence of esophagitis in 14 patients; and gastric or duodenal ulcers in 6 patients. twenty-five individuals were found to have normal manometric studies in combination with a negative bernstein test. among these 25 patients, however, 7 patients had esophagitis (grade ii or higher); 6 patients had gastritis and/or duodenitis; five patients had a sliding hiatal hernia without esophagitis; 1 patient had peptic ulcer disease; and only 6 patients had a normal endoscopic exam. our results indicate that endoscopy can identify a significant number of patients with acid-peptic disease who present with non-cardiac chest pain, that would not have been otherwise diagnosed by esophageal manometry or bernstein testing alone or in combination.
aspiration biopsy cytology of occult breast lesions by use of the "scouting needle". a prospective study of 261 cases. the increased use of mammography for the detection of impalpable breast lesions has resulted in a need for new diagnostic techniques. in a prospective study of 261 occult breast lesions, aspiration biopsy was done with a standard fine needle and syringe. this "scouting needle" technique permits the collection of diagnostic cytologic material in the clinician's office without specialized radiologic equipment. thirty of 53 malignant lesions (57%) were detected cytologically. a benign cytologic diagnosis, which was made in 220 patients, did not preclude additional investigation. aspiration biopsy using the "scouting needle" is a rapid, low-cost, easily performed, initial procedure which complements "watchful waiting." when diagnostic of carcinoma, it results in immediate surgical intervention and may obviate two-stage surgical treatment.
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery--i: incidence and severity during the 4 day perioperative period. the study of perioperative ischemia (spi) research group. to determine the incidence and characteristics of perioperative myocardial ischemia, the electrocardiographic (ecg) changes consistent with ischemia during the 4 day perioperative period were documented and characterized in 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease undergoing noncardiac surgery. using continuous two channel ecg monitoring (leads cc5 and cm5), the frequency and severity of ecg ischemic episodes defined by st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm during the preoperative (up to 2 days), intraoperative and early postoperative (first 2 days) periods were compared. preoperatively, 28 patients (28%) exhibited 105 episodes of ischemia; intraoperatively, 27 patients exhibited 39 episodes and postoperatively, 42 patients exhibited 187 episodes. there was no difference between the pre- and intraoperative episode characteristics. however, postoperative ischemic episodes were the most severe. the mean st change was 1.5, 2 and 2.6 mm for pre-, intra- and postoperative episodes, respectively (p less than 0.0001 postoperative versus pre- or intraoperative); duration of ischemic episodes was 69, 45 and 207 min, respectively (p less than 0.005 postoperative versus preoperative, p less than 0.001 versus intraoperative) and area under the st curve was 88, 74 and 383 mm.min (p less than 0.009 postoperative versus preoperative, p less than 0.005 versus intraoperative). ninety-four percent of all postoperative ischemic episodes were silent; 80% of all episodes occurred without acute change (+/- 20% of control) in heart rate and 77% of intraoperative episodes occurred without acute change in blood pressure.
the management of the painful first metatarsophalangeal joint in the older patient. arthrodesis or keller's arthroplasty? we report a prospective randomised trial comparing keller's arthroplasty and arthrodesis of the first metatarsophalangeal joint for the management of symptomatic hallux valgus and hallux rigidus in the older patient. in 81 patients (110 feet), with a minimum of two years follow-up, both procedures gave a similar degree of patient satisfaction and symptom relief. the incidence of metatarsalgia was also similar. as there were no obvious advantages to arthrodesis, and since six out of 50 arthrodesed toes required revision, we suggest that keller's arthroplasty is the better operation in these patients.
alterations in left ventricular diastolic twist mechanics during acute human cardiac allograft rejection. background. contraction of obliquely oriented left ventricular (lv) fibers results in a twisting motion of the left ventricle. the purpose of this study was to assess the effects of acute human cardiac allograft rejection on lv twist pattern and the twist-volume relation. methods and results. tantalum markers were implanted into the lv midwall in 15 transplant recipients to measure time-varying, three-dimensional chamber twist using computer-assisted analysis of biplane cinefluoroscopic images. twist was defined as the mean longitudinal gradient of circumferential rotation about the lv long axis. when plotted against normalized percent ejection fraction (%ef), the resulting twist-normalized %ef relation could be divided into three phases. in systole, lv twist was linearly related to ejection of blood. in contrast, diastolic untwist was characterized by early rapid recoil with little change in lv volume, followed by more gradual untwisting when the bulk of diastolic filling occurred. during 10 acute rejection episodes in 10 patients, maximum twist, peak systolic twist rate, and the slope of the systolic twist-normalized %ef relation did not change. in contrast, the slope of the early (first 15% of filling) diastolic twist-normalized %ef relation (m(early-dia)) decreased significantly (-0.194 +/- 0.062 [prerejection] versus -0.103 +/- 0.054 rad/cm [rejection], p = 0.0003), resulting in a prolonged tau 1/2 (time required to untwist by 50% [20 +/- 5% versus 28 +/- 5% of diastole], p = 0.0003) and decrease in percent untwisting at 15% diastolic lv filling (62 +/- 11% versus 36 +/- 13%, p = 0.0003). therefore, a greater proportion of lv untwisting occurred later in diastole during rejection, as reflected by an increase in the slope (m(mid-dia)) of the middle to late (from 15 to 90% filling) diastolic twist-normalized %ef relation (-0.018 +/- 0.009 versus -0.030 +/- 0.010 rad/cm, p = 0.0015). peak rate of untwist was not affected. with resolution of rejection, m(early-dia) and percent untwist during early diastole returned to baseline levels (p = ns versus baseline). there was also a trend for m(mid-dia) to return toward prerejection values (p = ns versus baseline), but this change did not reach statistical significance compared with rejection values. conclusion. acute cardiac allograft rejection is associated with altered diastolic twist mechanics in the absence of any demonstratable systolic abnormalities. during rejection, myocardial edema and other factors may result in intrinsic changes of the elastic properties of the myocardium, thereby leading to modification of recoil forces responsible for the early, rapid unwinding of the deformed ventricle.
expression and characterization of tca3: a murine inflammatory protein. tca3 is a cdna originally isolated from activated t cells. transcription of this gene has been shown to correlate with ag-induced cellular activation of both t cells and mast cells. based on the predicted amino acid sequence encoded by the cdna, we previously proposed that tca3 represents a cytokine. in this report we have used rdna technology to express tca3 in two mammalian cell lines. in both cases, tca3 was expressed as a secreted molecule with an apparent molecular mass of 16 kda. digestion of the (rtca3) with the enzyme n-glycanase revealed that approximately 8 kda is caused by n-linked glycosylation. intradermal injection of rtca3 into mouse footpads resulted in a rapid swelling response. the sites of injection were characterized histologically by a local accumulation of neutrophils. these findings are discussed with particular attention to a family of related proteins, some of whose members also have inflammatory properties.
role of dopamine and arterial chemoreceptors in thermal tachypnea in conscious cats. in mammals submitted to a warm environment, intracerebral injection of dopamine (da) produces no change or an increase in body temperature accompanied by an increase in metabolic heat production, but its effect on heat loss mechanisms such as vasodilation and tachypnea is not clear. because the principal mechanism of heat loss in the conscious cat is thermal tachypnea, we studied the influence of da on thermal tachypnea in response to heat stress (ambient temperature = 33-36 degrees c) in five conscious cats. we first studied the steady-state response to a da agonist, apomorphine, which crosses the blood-brain barrier. intravenous injection of apomorphine greatly reduced thermal tachypnea by decreasing respiratory frequency (from 94.9 to 52.5 breaths/min) and increasing tidal volume (from 13.2 to 20.4 ml). the subsequent injection of the da antagonist haloperidol, which also crosses the blood-brain barrier, restored the initial tachypnea. to further investigate the mechanism involved in thermal tachypnea, we studied the influence of peripheral chemoreceptors by transiently stimulating or inhibiting carotid body (cb) activity during tachypneic breathing. cb stimulation by intravenous injection of nacn or domperidone reduced thermal tachypnea mainly by decreasing the respiratory frequency, whereas cb inhibition by da tended to increase frequency and thus tachypnea. it is concluded that 1) in a warm environment, central da receptors are also greatly involved in heat loss mechanisms, 2) arterial chemoreceptor input appears to counteract this tachypneic breathing, and 3) thermal and hypoxic tachypnea may be controlled by the same mechanism in which a da-like system has a key role.
normalization of ventilation/perfusion relationships after liver transplantation in patients with decompensated cirrhosis: evidence for a hepatopulmonary syndrome. to examine the effect of liver transplantation on the respiratory and cardiovascular functions, ventilation/perfusion relationships were determined by multiple inert gas elimination technique in six patients with end-stage liver disease 1 to 19 mo before and 2 to 6 mo after liver transplantation. cardiac output and pulmonary vascular pressures were measured after catheterization of the pulmonary artery. all patients had normal spirometry and chest x-ray films before transplantation. pao2 before transplantation was 78.8 +/- 7.4 mm hg (range = 51.8 to 102.8 mm hg). all patients had perfusion of poorly ventilated lung regions (low ventilation/perfusion relationships) varying from 3% to 19% of cardiac output (mean = 8.5% +/- 2.4% of cardiac output) and two patients had intrapulmonary shunting (3% and 20% of cardiac output). measured and calculated pao2 agreed closely, indicating absence of pulmonary diffusion abnormality, as well as of extrapulmonary shunting. after transplantation, pao2 normalized in all patients, and both shunting and low ventilation/perfusion relationships disappeared. cardiac output decreased from 9.1 +/- 1.4 to 6.6 +/- 0.5 l/min (p less than 0.05), and the pulmonary vascular resistance increased from 0.69 +/- 0.14 to 1.64 +/- 0.43 mm hg/l/min (p less than 0.05). the systemic vascular resistance also increased (before = 8.7 +/- 1.0; after = 15.3 +/- 1.1 mm hg/l/min; p less than 0.001). normalization of respiratory and cardiovascular alterations, after liver transplantation, in patients with end-stage liver disease indicates that these changes have a direct functional relationship to the diseased liver. it is hypothesized that this is part of a "hepatopulmonary syndrome,' which in similarity to the hepatorenal syndrome disappears with improved liver function.
clinical management of gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices. we report the late results of treatment of 13 consecutive patients with gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices. of seven good-risk patients classified as child's class a or b, gastrectomy together with selective shunt operation was performed in two, total gastrectomy with splenectomy in three, and distal partial gastrectomy with paraesophageal devascularization without splenectomy in one. the remaining patient with early gastric cancer underwent distal partial gastrectomy following repeated endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (eis) for treatment of the esophageal varices. although the majority of patients who underwent surgical repair of varices (i.e., shunt, splenectomy, or devascularization) died, total gastrectomy with splenectomy was the only procedure that led to control of the esophageal varices. since partial gastrectomy combined with eis limits the morbidity and mortality of an extensive resection and at the same time controls esophageal variceal bleeding, it is probably the procedure of choice for patients with a carcinoma in the lower two-thirds of the stomach. concerning non-surgical cases, two patients were effectively treated using laser endoscopy and eis, without the occurrence of variceal bleeding. the remaining four patients, given chemotherapy or irradiation for treatment of gastric carcinoma, died within 4 months with variceal bleeding or liver failure. for the poor-risk patients with evidence of severe liver dysfunction, laser treatment and eis would be the treatment of choice.
occurrence of uveal melanoma in contact with a chorioretinal cryocoagulation scar. a case of a uveal melanoma arising in an eye previously treated with cryocoagulation for a horseshoe retinal tear is described. in the anterior border of the tumor, a notch, clearly fitting the curve of the chorioretinal scar was observed. possible mechanisms which may be responsible for the local arrest of the tumor extension are discussed.
esophageal ultrasound and the preoperative staging of carcinoma of the esophagus. esophageal ultrasound allows the esophageal wall to be viewed as five discrete layers. lymph nodes are easily identified, and their size, shape, margin, and internal structure can be assessed. this provides an alternative method of preoperative (clinical) evaluation of the primary tumor [t] and the regional lymph nodes [n] of patients with carcinoma of the esophagus. esophageal ultrasound was attempted in the clinical staging of 28 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus. six patients (21%) were not assessed because of the inability to pass the esophageal ultrasound probe through the malignant stricture. the staging system for carcinoma of the esophagus developed by the international union against cancer and the american joint committee on cancer was used. twenty-two patients had the true t determined by pathologic review of the resected esophagus. esophageal ultrasound correctly identified t in 13 patients (59% accuracy). in four patients (18%) the disease was overstaged by esophageal ultrasound; all these patients had early t1 tumors confined to the submucosa. in five patients (23%) the disease was understaged by esophageal ultrasound; all of these patients had advanced tumors (four t3 and one t4) that invaded beyond the esophageal wall. seven of the nine incorrect esophageal ultrasound determinations were called t2 (three t1, three t3, one t4), which suggests that the borders of the muscularis propria require careful attention when evaluated by esophageal ultrasound. twenty patients had the true n determined by pathologic review of the resected specimen. esophageal ultrasound correctly identified n in 14 patients (70% accuracy). three patients were falsely identified as having n1 disease and three were falsely identified as having n0 disease. the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for n assessment by esophageal ultrasound were 70%. esophageal ultrasound provides an alternative method of visualization of the esophageal wall and regional lymph nodes. our early experience shows promise for esophageal ultrasound in the clinical staging of carcinoma of the esophagus.
gastrointestinal tuberculosis. report of four cases. gastrointestinal tuberculosis is a rare disease in the united states. correct identification is often delayed because it is not considered early on in the differential diagnosis. four patients with gastrointestinal tuberculosis and the symptoms, diagnosis, complications, and treatment of the disease are discussed. gastrointestinal tuberculosis should be considered in asian immigrant patients who present with symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease.
multimodal therapy in locally advanced breast carcinoma. among 879 patients treated for breast cancer between 1975 and 1984, advanced disease was found in 125 (14%). a subgroup of 34 (4%) presented with untreated locally advanced disease without demonstrable distant metastases at the time of diagnosis (stage iiib = t4abed, nx-2,mo). during the first 5 years (1975 through 1979), 17 patients were treated primarily with sequential radiotherapy and chemotherapy (group a). from 1980 to 1984 (group b), the management consisted of four courses of induction multi-drug chemotherapy followed primarily by mastectomy and additional chemotherapy. the mean follow-up for the most recent group (group b) is 48 months. follow-up was complete. while the local disease control rate was the same for both groups (76%), the survival was remarkably different. group a patients experienced a median survival of 15 months, and only one survived 5 years. in group b, the median survival was 56 months with nine patients (53%) alive between 40 and 76 months, seven (41%) of whom are 5-year survivors. while the overall mortality of patients with inflammatory breast cancer was greater in both groups when compared with the group with noninflammatory disease, the survival of patients in group b was better than in group a for both inflammatory and noninflammatory cancers (p less than 0.01). estrogen receptor, nodal, and menopausal status did not influence survival. these data suggest that neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves survival for patients with stage iiib breast carcinoma and delays the establishment or progression of distant metastases. mastectomy is an important component in the treatment of this disease.
preliminary characterization of growth factors secreted by human pituitary tumors. to investigate the secretion of mitogenic factors by human pituitary tumors we have cultured cells from 54 adenomas in serum-free medium. conditioned media from 28 (52%) elicited dose-dependent stimulation of [3h]thymidine incorporation into rat gh3 cells (22-338% above control), while 14 (26%) inhibited gh3 proliferation. stimulating activity was observed more frequently in nonfunctional tumor-conditioned medium (73%; n = 22) than in secretory tumor-conditioned medium (37%; n = 32). of 10 tumour-conditioned media with mitogenic activity for gh3 cells, only 4 produced modest stimulation of hep2 (human laryngeal carcinoma) cells. in contrast, [3h]thymidine incorporation into a431 (human squamous carcinoma) and pc12 (rat adrenal pheochromocytoma) cells was enhanced by each of 15 tumor-conditioned media (up to 342% and 275%, respectively), 8 of which had shown stimulatory and 2 inhibitory effects on gh3 cells. gel filtration of pooled conditioned media from 10 nonfunctional tumors showed significant growth-promoting activity for gh3 cells in fractions corresponding to mol wt of 2-3 and 11-18 kda. proliferative activity on a431 cells also eluted in two positions; one corresponded to the higher mol wt peak seen with gh3 cells, while the other, not observed with gh3 cells, was in the 3- to 6-kda range. these findings suggest that cells derived from human pituitary adenoma tissue synthesize and secrete several growth factors, each of which may have its own target cell specificities. these factors have yet to be characterized, but we suggest that they may have a role in stimulating the development or maintenance of human pituitary adenomas.
characteristics of a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor: delapril. delapril, a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor, which has an indanylglycine moiety differing from the proline moiety of captopril or enalapril, is an esterified prodrug that is converted in vivo to its active metabolites. delapril effectively inhibits rabbit lung ace activity and lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. delapril has several characteristics that differ from captopril and enalapril, including high lipophilicity and weak bradykinin potentiating action. delapril is a more potent inhibitor of vascular wall ace activity than enalapril or captopril. it also shows a weaker potentiating action on the citric acid-induced cough in the guinea pig model compared with captopril and enalapril. in 12 out of 150 patients with essential hypertension who complained of cough during treatment with enalapril, changing to delapril resulted in resolution of the cough in 6 out of 12 of these patients: the percentage of patients in the total population with cough decreased from 8% to 4%.
cryoprobe as a "handle" for resection of metastatic liver tumors. resection of metastatic liver tumors can be a difficult and risky procedure. using a cryoprobe as a "handle" can greatly facilitate resection by providing a taut surface for transection and improving visualization of ductal and vascular structures. in addition, this technique may decrease the risk of contaminating surrounding tissues with cancer cells, and may inhibit tumor recurrence within the margins of resection.
toxic dermatitis induced by 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin (10-edam), a novel antifolate. a new methotrexate analog, 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin (10-edam), was found to induce a particular form of skin toxicity different than the skin rash reported to result from methotrexate. at histologic examination, it was found to be a toxic dermatitis that clinically most often first appears on the lower legs but can occur anywhere in the body, especially if treatment is continued. nine cases are reported. a specific risk factor could not yet be identified. discontinuation of 10-edam administration leads to complete healing; concomitant corticosteroid treatment also induces healing.
experience with esmolol for the treatment of cocaine-associated cardiovascular complications. the authors report their experience using esmolol, an ultra-short acting beta-adrenergic antagonist, for the treatment of seven patients with cocaine-associated cardiovascular complications. no consistent hemodynamic benefit was found with the use of this drug. although there was a decline in mean heart rate of 23% (range 0% to 35%), they were unable to show a consistent antihypertensive response. adverse effects occurred in three patients. this included one patient with a marked exacerbation of hypertension and one who became hypotensive. another patient developed emesis and lethargy during esmolol therapy and required endotracheal intubation. they do not recommend the routine use of esmolol for cocaine cardiotoxicity.
prevalence of hemodynamically significant stenosis of the carotid artery in an asymptomatic veteran population. the results of previous studies have suggested that significant stenosis of the carotid artery occurs in less than 6 per cent of asymptomatic patients. however, some populations studied were not representative of those seen by most vascular surgeons. accordingly, we examined two cohorts of patients at the veterans administration medical center using duplex scanning. there were 153 volunteers in group 1, all more than 50 years of age, who were being treated at our outpatient department for nonvascular problems. there were 116 patients of similar age in group 2 but who were known to have significant arterial occlusive disease of the lower extremity. the majority of patients were men with a mean age of 64.4 years. risk factors in the total population included hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary arterial disease, peripheral vascular disease and smoking. over-all, significant (greater than 50 per cent diameter) stenosis of the carotid artery was discovered in 25 of 269 patients. the prevalence for those in group 1 was 6.5 per cent versus 12.9 per cent for those in group 2 (p = 0.058). the prevalence in patients with cardiac disease was 15.2 per cent compared with 6.8 per cent in those without cardiac disease (p = 0.032). smoking was associated with a 10.6 per cent rate of significant disease compared with a 2.3 per cent rate in nonsmokers (p = 0.065). hypertension and diabetes were not significant risk factors. significant stenosis of the carotid artery was found in seven of 40 patients in whom coronary arterial disease, peripheral vascular disease and smoking were all present.
asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle in infants with posthemorrhagic ventricular dilation. lateral cerebral ventricular volume in 36 preterm infants with or without an intraventricular hemorrhage, and with or without posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus, was measured longitudinally and compared with the ventricular index measurements of the same ventricles. a poor correlation was found (r2 = 0.67). to determine a reason for this poor relationship, we analyzed the volumes of the regions of the ventricles by a segmental volume analysis. the occipital region of the lateral cerebral ventricle enlarged at a much faster rate (1.904 +/- 0.477 ml/day) than either the anterior region (0.546 +/- 0.253 ml/day; p less than 0.01) or the middle region (-0.209 +/- 0.334 ml/day; p less than 0.01) in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. the rate of growth of the middle region of the lateral cerebral ventricles was the same for all infants. linear indexes, such as the ventricular index and the lateral ventricular ratio, do not allow for accurate serial estimates of ventricular size in posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus because of asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle. we conclude that sequential volume measurements are more useful than ventricular index measurements to follow ventricular size sequentially in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus.
surgical complications with the cochlear multiple-channel intracochlear implant: experience at hannover and melbourne. the surgical complications for the first 153 multiple-channel cochlear implant operations carried out at the medizinische hochschule in hannover and the first 100 operations at the university of melbourne clinic, the royal victorian eye and ear hospital, are presented. in the hannover experience the major complications were wound breakdown, wound infection, electrode tie erosion through the external auditory canal, electrode slippage, a persistent increase in tinnitus, and facial nerve stimulation. the incidence of wound breakdown requiring removal of the package was 0.6% in hannover and 1.0% in melbourne. the complications for the operation at both clinics were at acceptable levels. it was considered that wound breakdown requiring implant removal could be kept to a minimum by making a generous incision and suturing the flap without tension.
acute urinary retention secondary to herpes simplex meningitis. we report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions. since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis, lumbosacral disk herniation, rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication, a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes. as part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis. culture of herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted. we recommend conservative management only, typically with intermittent catheterization, since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days.
intracranial hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations during pregnancy and the puerperium. intracranial hemorrhage (ich) from an intracranial aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation is a grave complication of pregnancy and is responsible for 5 to 12% of all maternal deaths. we critically analyzed 154 cases of verified ich during pregnancy from an identified intracranial lesion, including 2 patients treated at our institution and 152 cases previously reported in the literature in english. aneurysms were responsible for ich in 77% of patients, and arteriovenous malformations in 23%. hemorrhage occurred antepartum in 92% of patients and postpartum in 8%. women with angiomatous hemorrhage were younger than those with aneurysmal hemorrhage; however, in contrast to previous reports, we found no differences between angiomatous and aneurysmal hemorrhage with respect to parity or gestational age at the time of the initial hemorrhage. hypertension and/or albuminuria were present at some time during the pregnancy in 34% of patients with documentation, which sometimes made it difficult to differentiate angiomatous or aneurysmal ich from that associated with eclampsia. in a logistic regression analysis, surgical management of aneurysms, but not arteriovenous malformations, was associated with significantly lower maternal and fetal mortality, independent of other covariants. for those patients with a lesion not operated on, cesarean delivery afforded no better maternal or fetal outcome than did vaginal delivery. we conclude that the decision to operate after ich during pregnancy should be based upon neurosurgical principles, whereas the method of delivery should be based upon obstetrical considerations. the perioperative and anesthetic management of the pregnant patient with a neurosurgical complication is discussed.
st segment alternans during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty--a case report. the occurrence of electrical alternans of the st segment has been reported in patients with variant angina. the authors encountered a patient with typical electrical alternans of the st segment in leads v4 through v6, which developed during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) of the proximal left anterior descending artery. hemodynamic pulsus alternans of the aortic pressure tracing was not observed during electrical alternans, and a ca2+ blocker could not prevent this phenomenon during ptca.
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy. relation to gynecologic features and outcome. we identified irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) in 47.7% of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain, 39.5% of 172 women having elective hysterectomy, and 32.0% of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group (p = ns). constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls (p less than 0.05). in laparoscopy patients, dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it (p less than 0.05). in the hysterectomy group, more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain (p less than 0.005), and abnormal menses (p less than 0.01). chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients (p less than 0.05), and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy (p less than 0.01). one year after laparoscopy, ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings (p less than 0.01) and lower pain improvement ratings (p less than 0.05) than non-ibs patients. in women who had a hysterectomy for pain, there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients (p less than 0.05). ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy.
clinical perspective on celiprolol: cardioprotective potential. beta-adrenergic blockers have had widespread use in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. some agents of this class have been shown to reduce the incidence of total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, sudden death, and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of acute myocardial infarction. the mechanism for this cardioprotective action is not known. antiarrhythmic action and hemodynamic alterations have been suggested as possible mechanisms. an anticoagulant mechanism is another possibility, although the antiplatelet effects of beta-blockers are weak. it is now believed that antithrombotic effects may be related to the prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than a direct anticoagulant action. the therapeutic ability beta-blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surgers, as they do in aortic dissection, may protect a vulnerable plaque from fracture, reducing the risk of coronary thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and death. celiprolol, a third-generation beta 1-selective adrenergic blocker with partial beta 2-agonist activity, is comparable to other beta-blockers in antihypertensive and antianginal activity. it has additional actions that may be beneficial to patients: (1) it does not adversely affect lipids and lipoproteins; (2) it does not appear to depress the myocardium in patients with left ventricular dysfunction; (3) it can lower serum fibrinogen levels; and (4) it can cause regression of myocardial mass in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy.
ultrasound screening of first-degree relatives of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm. the pedigrees were constructed of 43 patients (probands) who underwent resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. seven probands (16.2%) had a first-degree relative (parent, sibling, child) known to have had an abdominal aortic aneurysm (multiplex family). to determine the prevalence of undiagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm, ultrasound screening of first-degree relatives over age 40 years was undertaken. of 202 eligible relatives, 103 (51.0%) were screened. an occult abdominal aortic aneurysm was defined as an infrarenal aortic diameter greater than 3.0 cm or an infrarenal/suprarenal aortic diameter ratio of greater than 1.5. an incipient abdominal aortic aneurysm was defined as a clear focal bulge of the infrarenal aorta, which was less than 3.0 cm in greatest diameter. four of 103 relatives (3.9%) were found to have an occult abdominal aortic aneurysm (age/sex: 57m, 60m, 62f, 65m), and three (2.9%) were found with an incipient abdominal aortic aneurysm (age/sex: 56m, 60m, 67f). these smaller abdominal aortic aneurysms were in patients younger than the operated probands (average age men, 67 years; women, 69 years). six of seven individuals were in families previously considered simplex, increasing the actual multiplex family frequency from 16.2% to 27.9%. all seven new abdominal aortic aneurysms were found in the 49 siblings age 55 years or older. there were no abdominal aortic aneurysms found in the 39 relatives under age 55 years, in 14 children ages 50 to 59 years or in one parent. therefore of the siblings age 55 years or older, 5/20 men (25.0%) and 2/29 women (6.9%) were found to have a previously undiagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm.
the vascularized fibula graft in mandibular reconstruction. the use of a vascularized graft from the fibula for mandibular reconstruction is presented. the great strength, pliability, and long vascular pedicle that characterize such grafts make them particularly suitable for this type of repair. the results in six cases were highly satisfactory. masticatory function was well restored, without alteration of the facial contour, and with minimal sequelae at the donor site.
reduced allergen-induced nasal congestion and leukotriene synthesis with an orally active 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor background and methods. the clinical importance of leukotrienes in human allergy has not been defined, in part because there have been no selective 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors that have been effective and safe for use in humans. to address the hypothesis that stimulated leukotriene synthesis causes symptoms of immediate-hypersensitivity reactions in vivo, i investigated the effects of a new 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, a-64077, on provoked allergic nasal symptoms and mediator release in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. eight subjects with allergic rhinitis underwent nasal challenge on two occasions after an oral dose of 800 mg of a-64077 or an identical-appearing placebo. results. allergen-induced nasal congestion was significantly attenuated (p less than 0.02) by a-64077; peak levels of leukotriene b4 (median, 684 pg per milliliter) and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (median, 704 pg per milliliter) in nasal-rinse fluids were markedly reduced (to 67 and 185 pg per milliliter, respectively; p less than 0.01), whereas levels of prostaglandin d2 were not. histamine release and sneezing were not reduced significantly by a-64077, but there was a significant correlation (p less than 0.01) between the changes in these variables within subjects. the mean (+/- sem) stimulated synthesis of leukotriene b4 in whole blood ex vivo was markedly reduced by a-64077 (from 153 +/- 19 to 20 +/- 9 ng per milliliter, p less than 0.01), and the specificity of a-64077 for 5-lipoxygenase inhibition was verified by its lack of effect on the synthesis of serum thromboxane b2 or 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid. conclusions. these results provide direct evidence of an important role for the 5-lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid in allergic rhinitis and support the notion that further experiments in this area may lead to new therapeutic approaches to allergic disorders.
fish oil amplifies the effect of propranolol in mild essential hypertension. forty-seven male patients with mild essential hypertension were randomly allocated to three subgroups. after a run-in period of 4 weeks, the first subgroup (n = 16) received propranolol (80 mg/day) for 36 weeks followed by a placebo period of 4 weeks. the second subgroup (n = 15), after a run-in period of 4 weeks, was given a supplement of encapsulated fish oil (9 g/day) for 36 weeks with a subsequent period of 4 weeks in which fish oil placebo was given. the third subgroup (n = 16), after a run-in period of 4 weeks, was given propranolol (80 mg/day) for 12 weeks, propranolol (80 mg/day) plus fish oil capsules (9 g/day equivalent to 1.8 g/day of eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.1 g/day of docosahexaenoic acid) for 12 weeks, propranolol plus fish oil placebo (same doses for 12 weeks) with a subsequent period of 4 weeks when propranolol placebo was administered. the results indicate a blood pressure-lowering effect of fish oil, which was comparable with that of propranolol. the simultaneous intake of fish oil plus propranolol was more effective than propranolol or fish oil alone. propranolol treatment resulted in a decrease of plasma norepinephrine, plasma renin activity, and thromboxane b2 formation. after fish oil supplementation, plasma norepinephrine and thromboxane b2 formation were likewise reduced, whereas plasma renin activity appeared increased. the decrease of serum triglycerides, total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as the rise of high density lipoprotein cholesterol are concomitant beneficial effects, which justify the consideration of fish oil alone or in combination with antihypertensive drugs for the treatment of mild hypertension.
the justification for surgical treatment of metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract. fifty-six patients with symptomatic metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract (git) treated surgically at the sydney melanoma unit between 1974 and 1989 were reviewed. the majority of these patients presented with abdominal pain or symptoms of anemia. the small intestine was the site of metastasis in more than 80 per cent. the mean over-all survival time was 11.7 months (range of one to 60 months) after surgical treatment of a first metastasis to the git and 3.6 months (range of zero to 12 months) postoperatively for a second git metastasis. forty-four of the patients reported complete relief of their symptoms postoperatively. the results suggest that an aggressive approach to symptomatic git metastases from malignant melanoma is justified both to relieve distressing symptoms and to prolong life.
horner's syndrome from hypothalamic infarction. we report a case of horner's syndrome due to ipsilateral posterior hypothalamic infarction, occurring in the absence of other signs of hypothalamic dysfunction. associated symptoms of contralateral faciobrachial weakness and dysarthria correlated with the extension of the infarct into the posterior limb of the internal capsule seen by magnetic resonance imaging. the likely vascular anatomy of this lesion is discussed.
thyroid antibodies as a risk factor for down syndrome and other trisomies. to test whether the presence of thyroid antibodies in a parent is a risk factor for meiotic nondisjunction, we measured the levels of thyroid antibodies in serum samples drawn during early pregnancy from 101 gravidas who delivered a child with a trisomy, from 11 gravidas who had had a trisomic child in a previous pregnancy, and from 44 of their husbands. for each case mother, three controls were randomly selected from the same population and matched for age, race, sex of the child, and hospital of birth. cases and controls came from two longitudinal populations, the child health and development studies (chds) and the national collaborative perinatal project (cpp), together comprising more than 70,000 live births. all cases with both a definite diagnosis of trisomy-down syndrome (ds) or other-and available serum were included. overall, there was no association between the presence of thyroid antibodies in a mother and a trisomy in her offspring (odds ratio [or] = .98, confidence interval [ci] = .54-1.85). the lack of association was seen in all three subgroups (ds only, other trisomies, and ds in a previous pregnancy), in all ethnic groups, and in the age groups of white mothers either less than 30 years of age (or = .80, ci = .40-1.6) or greater than or equal to 30 years of age (or = 1.26, ci = .82-1.9). in the chds population, case fathers, as compared with control fathers, did not have a higher prevalence of thyroid antibodies.
natural death as viewed by the medical examiner: a review of 1000 consecutive autopsies of individuals dying of natural disease. a study of 1000 consecutive autopsies of individuals dying of natural disease was conducted. cardiovascular disease was responsible for 60.9% of all deaths with coronary artery disease--not only the main cause of cardiovascular death but also the main cause of all natural deaths--accounting for 45.1% of such cases. diseases of the central nervous and respiratory systems accounted for 8.7 and 8.6%, respectively, of the natural deaths. seizure disorders and pneumonia were the main causes of death in these organ systems. there were 124 deaths of children less than one year in age, 91 of which were due to sudden infant death syndrome (sids). all of the sids deaths were in children less than 10 months old.
effects of cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and distal intestinal obstruction syndrome. in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial, we investigated the effects of the prokinetic drug cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic recurrent distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (dios). after a baseline period, 17 patients (12.9 to 34.9 years; 12 boys) received, in random order, cisapride (7.5 to 10 mg) and placebo three times daily by mouth, each for 6 months. gastrointestinal symptoms (flatulence, abdominal pain, fullness, abdominal distension, nausea, anorexia, heartburn, diarrhea, vomiting and regurgitation) were scored three times monthly and physical examinations assessed. at baseline and at each 6-month period, assessment included food intake for 7 days, 3-day stool collection, pulmonary function tests, and abdominal radiographs. during cisapride therapy compared with placebo, there were significant reductions in flatulence (p less than 0.005), fullness, and nausea (p less than 0.05). patients with the worst symptom scores benefited most from cisapride. with cisapride, 12 patients felt better and three worse (p less than 0.05); physicians judged 11 patients improved and two worse (p less than 0.05). no side effects were noted. there were no significant differences between cisapride and placebo periods in nutritional status, x-ray scores, pulmonary function, food intake (fat, protein, calories), stool size and consistency, and fecal losses of fat, bile acids, chymotrypsin, and calories. for acute episodes of dios, intestinal lavage was needed 6 times in 4 patients during treatment with cisapride, and 11 times in 6 patients receiving placebo. in comparison with unselected patients with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency who were receiving enzyme supplements and who had no distal intestinal obstruction, fecal fat losses (percentage of intake) were almost twice as high in the study group with dios (31.2 +/- 20.6% vs 16.2 +/- 17.6%; p less than 0.01). we conclude that in the dosage used, long-term treatment with cisapride appears to improve chronic abdominal symptoms in patients with cystic fibrosis and dios, but fails to abolish the need for intestinal lavage. cisapride treatment had no effect on digestion and nutritional status of cystic fibrosis patients with pancreatic insufficiency.
serum amylase in patients with renal insufficiency and renal failure. results vary with regard to the upper limits of serum amylase seen in patients with renal failure, and very little has been reported with patients with renal insufficiency not yet requiring dialysis. to determine the level of serum amylase elevation in renal insufficiency and renal failure, we determined serum amylase values in 128 subjects with creatinine clearances less than 90 ml/min. serum amylase remained in the normal range when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min, and did not become elevated until creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min. the highest serum amylase recorded in the absence of acute pancreatitis was 503 iu/l (normal, less than 128 iu/l). serum lipase and trypsin values paralleled those for serum amylase; values remained normal when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min, and were normal or elevated when creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min. these results indicate that elevations of serum amylase (i.e., amylase greater than 128 but less than 500 iu/l) in asymptomatic patients with impaired renal function are not evident until creatinine clearances fall below 50 ml/min, and probably do not represent acute pancreatitis.
leukoaraiosis, intracerebral hemorrhage, and arterial hypertension. to investigate whether the observed association of leukoaraiosis with intracerebral hemorrhage is direct or mediated by risk factors, we compared 116 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage confirmed by computed tomography and 155 controls without intracerebral hemorrhage, evaluating the prevalence of leukoaraiosis and vascular risk factors. leukoaraiosis was observed in 21 (18%) of the 116 patients and in 12 (8%) of the 155 controls (p less than 0.01). only two (6%) of the 31 patients with lobar hemorrhage had leukoaraiosis on computed tomograms, compared with 17 (24%) of the 71 patients with basal ganglionic hemorrhage (p less than 0.05). leukoaraiosis was significantly correlated with intracerebral hemorrhage after controlling for age and sex by using multiple logistic regression analysis, while the correlation disappeared after controlling for hypertension. our results indicate that leukoaraiosis is not an independent risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage.
new approaches in the rehabilitation of the traumatic high level quadriplegic. the use of noninvasive alternatives to tracheostomy for ventilatory support have been described in the patient management of various neuromuscular disorders. the use of these techniques for patients with traumatic high level quadriplegia, however, is hampered by the resort to tracheostomy in the acute hospital setting. twenty traumatic high level quadriplegic patients on intermittent positive pressure ventilation (ippv) via tracheostomy with little or no ability for unassisted breathing were converted to noninvasive ventilatory support methods and had their tracheostomy sites closed. four additional patients were ventilated by noninvasive methods without tracheostomy. these methods included the use of body ventilators and the noninvasive intermittent positive airway pressure alternatives of ippv via the mouth, nose, or custom acrylic strapless oral-nasal interface (soni). overnight end-tidal pco2 studies and monitoring of oxyhemoglobin saturation (sao2) were used to adjust ventilator volumes and to document effective ventilation during sleep. no significant complications have resulted from the use of these methods over a period of 45 patient-years. elimination of the tracheostomy permitted significant free time by glossopharyngeal breathing for four patients, two of whom had no measurable vital capacity. we conclude that noninvasive ventilatory support alternatives can be effective and deserve further study in this patient population.
diagnosis of left atrial thrombi in mitral valve disease by coronary arteriography. arteriographic findings of neovascularity and fistula formation between coronary arteries and left atrium have occasionally been described in association with left atrial thrombosis in patients with mitral valve disease. the validity of these coronary arteriographic findings in diagnosis of atrial thrombi has been evaluated in 112 patients with mitral valve disease. comparison was made with surgery. the study furnished these diagnostic values: sensitivity 70%, specificity 85%, positive predictive value 72%. even if this angiographic finding is complementary in diagnosis of atrial thrombosis, its identification during coronary arteriography in patients with mitral valve disease is useful. its detection could improve diagnostic prediction of thrombosis, especially in patients without previous embolic events or where echocardiography failed to reveal thrombi.
nasolacrimal obstruction after inferior meatus nasal antrostomy. transient epiphora following rhinoplasty or intranasal procedures is a common occurrence. permanent nasolacrimal duct obstruction, however, is rare. this article documents four cases of nasolacrimal duct obstruction following intranasal antrostomy. three patients were cured by dacryocystorhinostomy and a fourth refused surgery. the anatomy of the nasolacrimal duct in the inferior meatus has considerable variation. although the duct typically opens in the inferior meatus immediately under the insertion of the inferior turbinate, the orifice can be a single hole, a slit, multiple holes, or a trough, and can be located anywhere from 30 to 40 mm dorsal to the anterior nares. we review the embryology and anatomy of the nasolacrimal orifice in the nose and make recommendations for safe surgery in the inferior meatus.
the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. mixed disulfides of methanethiol represent a relative estimate for an exposure to methanethiol. the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides, methionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and ammonia were measured in patients with different stages of hepatic encephalopathy, in patients with chronic kidney failure and in healthy subjects. in patients with hepatic encephalopathy, the mean serum concentrations of all these compounds were elevated. however, the elevations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were small and partly caused by decreased renal function. in addition, the levels of methanethiol-mixed disulfides did not differ significantly between the different grades of hepatic encephalopathy. the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were substantially lower than those previously observed in healthy subjects after an oral methionine load or in a patient with a deficiency in methionine adenosyltransferase, the latter without causing encephalopathy. we concluded that the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy is probably minor, if not insignificant. in the patients with hepatic encephalopathy, a significant correlation was found between the concentrations of methionine and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and between 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and methanethiol-mixed disulfides, supporting the theory that methanethiol is formed by way of the methionine transamination pathway. evidence is provided that, besides the methionine transsulfuration pathway, the transamination pathway is also impaired in patients with hepatic encephalopathy.
nd:yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas. forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor. the 1.32 microns nd:yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments. tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd:yag-laser. this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half. the nd:yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20% to zero. the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76% of the patients. the use of the 1.32 microns nd:yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma.
salvage from cardiogenic shock by atherectomy after failed emergency coronary artery angioplasty. in this case report of a patient undergoing angioplasty for cardiogenic shock during acute myocardial infarction, recurrent occlusion resulted in recurrence of shock. atherectomy reestablished lasting patency and reversed the patient's hemodynamic collapse. atherectomy deserves further investigation as a means to salvage vessel patency during unsuccessful coronary angioplasty.
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas. part 2: in vitro effect of steroids, bromocriptine, and epidermal growth factor on growth of meningiomas. cell culture and biochemical techniques have been employed to examine the effects of steroids, bromocriptine, and epidermal growth factor (egf) on the growth and proliferative potential of meningiomas. in cell culture, the growth of meningiomas was not altered by progestogens, antiprogestogens, or 17beta-estradiol. the progestogen, norethisterone, had no effect on the uptake by meningiomas cell cultures of 3h-thymidine. furthermore, cytosolic deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) polymerase activity of meningiomas did not correlate with the progesterone receptor status of the same tumors. in contrast, the androgen antagonists, cyproterone acetate and 11-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, and the dopamine agonist, bromocriptine, all inhibited the in vitro growth of meningioma cells. the growth of meningioma cell cultures was stimulated by egf, and there was a positive correlation between the egf content and dna polymerase activity in meningioma cytosols. these results demonstrate that female sex steroids do not influence growth of meningiomas in vitro, whereas antiandrogens and bromocriptine have an antiproliferative effect. consequently, bromocriptine and antiandrogens may have a role in the medical treatment of meningiomas. in addition, these results suggest that egf may be involved in the genesis and/or progression of meningiomas.
prognostic importance of delayed q-wave evolution 3 to 24 hours after initiation of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. the timing of q-wave evolution and its prognostic significance was studied in 201 patients who received thrombolytic therapy for a first acute myocardial infarction (ami). one hundred forty-one patients (70%) had evidence of a q-wave ami within 3 hours of the initiation of thrombolytic therapy, 31 (16%) developed q waves after 3 hours but before hospital discharge, and 29 (14%) were discharged with a non-q-wave ami. laboratory indicators of myocardial damage and in-hospital morbidity and mortality were greater among patients with q-wave amis than with non-q-wave amis. when these indexes were examined with respect to the timing of q-wave evolution, the prognosis of patients with delayed q-wave development was similar to that of patients with non-q-wave amis. thus, compared to patients with early (less than or equal to 3 hours) q-wave evolution, patients with delayed q-wave evolution or with a non-q-wave ami had a smaller creatine kinase peak (mean 661 to 1,081 vs 1,251 to 1,541 iu; p = 0.005), better preservation of left ventricular function as measured by radionuclide ventriculography before discharge (mean +/- standard deviation 54 +/- 11% vs 47 +/- 13%; p less than 0.01), and a lower incidence of congestive heart failure at discharge (3 vs 15%; p = 0.02). in-hospital mortality was lower among patients with delayed q-wave evolution or with a non-q-wave ami (5 of 141 vs 0 of 60; difference not significant).
efficacy and safety of low- and high-dose sotalol versus propranolol in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias early after coronary artery bypass operations. supraventricular tachyarrhythmias are reported in up to 40% of patients early after coronary artery bypass graft operations. in a randomized study, we compared the efficacy and safety of the class iii antiarrhythmic beta-blocking drug sotalol versus propranolol at low and high doses in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in 429 consecutive patients after coronary artery bypass graft operations. patients with severely depressed left ventricular function and other contraindications for beta-blockers were excluded. from the fourth hour up to the sixth day after coronary artery bypass, 74 patients received low-dose sotalol (40 mg every 8 hours), 66 patients low-dose propranolol (10 mg every 6 hours), 133 patients high-dose sotalol (80 mg every 8 hours), and 156 patients high-dose propranolol (20 mg every 6 hours). baseline characteristics were comparable in all groups. supraventricular tachyarrhythmia was observed in 10 of 72 (13.9%) who received low-dose sotalol, 12 of 64 (18.8%) who received low-dose propranolol, 13 of 119 (10.9%) who received high-dose sotalol, and 19 of 139 (13.7%) who received high-dose propranolol (not significant). drug-related adverse effects necessitating discontinuation of the drug occurred in four receiving low doses (2.9%) and in 31 receiving high doses (10.7%) (p less than 0.02). in conclusion, no medication was found to be superior, although supraventricular tachyarrhythmias tended to be less prevalent in patients treated with sotalol than in those treated with propranolol. moreover, significantly fewer adverse effects were noted in both low-dose groups. therefore, low-dose beta-blocking treatment, especially low-dose sotalol, seems preferable.
nephrotoxicity of allopurinol is enhanced in experimental hypertension. hyperuricemia is present in 20-40% of pediatric and adult patients with essential hypertension. this metabolic abnormality may represent an additional risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. therefore, we performed the following studies to determine 1) whether hyperuricemia is more prevalent in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr) and 2) whether allopurinol treatment has a beneficial effect on the development of hypertension in this strain, based on its capacity to lower the serum uric acid concentration and to act as an antioxidant agent. shr and control wistar-kyoto (wky) rats were assigned to two groups, one given tap water to drink and the other provided water containing allopurinol (400 mg/l) to furnish an approximate daily dose equal to 100 mg/kg body wt. this treatment was maintained for 15 weeks. the serum uric acid levels were similar in untreated shr and wky rats (1.85 +/- 0.10 versus 1.66 +/- 0.14 mg/dl; p = 0.28). in the control wky rat strain, allopurinol therapy did not adversely affect weight gain or hematocrit and did not cause an increase in mortality. it resulted in a moderate decrement in kidney function (creatinine clearance: allopurinol-treated group 0.32 +/- 0.09 versus control group 0.46 +/- 0.04 ml/min/100 g body wt, in conjunction with mild-to-moderate tubulointerstitial inflammation (allopurinol-treated group 0.9 +/- 0.4 versus control group 0).
extrageniculate vision in hemianopic humans: saccade inhibition by signals in the blind field. the functional competence of extrageniculate visual pathways in hemianopic humans was demonstrated by showing that distractor signals in the blind half of the visual field could inhibit saccades toward targets in the intact visual field. this inhibitory effect of unseen distractors in patients occurred only when distractors were presented in the temporal half of the visual field, was specific to oculomotor responses, and did not occur in normal subjects. these results show that a peripheral visual signal activates retinotectal pathways to prime the oculomotor system and that these pathways can mediate orienting behavior in hemianopic humans.
long-term morphology of spastic or flaccid muscles in spinal cord-transected rabbits. despite difficulty in long-term maintenance of spinalized rabbits, muscular pathologic changes in chronic spinalized rabbits could be observed for a period of four weeks. rabbits were prepared by spinal cord transection at t10 (spastic paralysis) or by spinal cord removal below l7 (flaccid paralysis). spastic preparations showed hind-limb spasticity and reflex incontinence one to two days after operation. hypertrophic fibers began to appear in spastic muscles after two weeks. this hypertrophy, thought to be caused by phasic repetitive contraction, was verified by electron microscopy to be different from normal exercise hypertrophy. flaccid preparations maintained hind-limb flaccidity and overflow incontinence. in flaccid muscle, marked muscle fiber necrosis indicated rapid atrophy. spinal deformity and joint contracture inactivate spinalized rabbits, and cause pressure sores. however, feeding assistance and avoidance of complications make long-term maintenance possible.
embryo reduction in multifetal pregnancies after infertility therapy: obstetrical risks and perinatal benefits are related to operative strategy. to assess the benefits that can be expected from embryo reduction of multiple pregnancies after infertility therapy, we report 58 consecutive cases of selective termination using either a transcervical or a transabdominal approach. the initial number of embryos was five or more in 13 patients, four in 29 patients, and three in 15 patients. the miscarriage rate after transabdominal procedures (23%) was one half of that after transcervical aspiration. forty pregnancies resulted in the live birth of one child or more. the rate of prematurity was strongly related to the number of embryos left. mean gestational age at birth was 35.5 weeks but reached 37.7 weeks when only one embryo was left. a reduction in premature birth after selective termination appeared clear for pregnancies with four or more embryos but was less significant for triplets.
clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina and cervix. a report of the central netherlands registry with emphasis on early detection and prognosis. the central netherlands registry (cnr) of women with vaginal or cervical clear cell adenocarcinoma (ccac) was established in 1985. an overview is presented of clinical and pathologic data of 55 patients who were registered at the cnr until july 1, 1988. all netherlands departments of pathology (ndp) maintain a patient registry and 95% of the institutes are connected with a central archive via a computer network. the histologic slides and clinical status were reviewed at the cnr. twenty-five tumors were classified as vaginal carcinoma and 30 as cervical carcinoma. the mean age of the patients was 22 years. fifty-five percent of patients (63% of patients with known maternal history) were exposed to diethylstilbestrol (des) in utero. the majority of cases was initially diagnosed after 1980. cytologic examination before the initial histologic diagnosis indicated that cervical tumors were detected in 80% of cases, but vaginal tumors were detected only in 33% of cases. it was concluded that an examination of des-exposed women should consist of colposcopic inspection of the cervix and vagina, cytologic examination of the cervix and four quadrants of the vagina, and careful palpation of the cervix and the entire vaginal wall. the most important prognostic parameter for patients with ccac was stage and grade of nuclear atypia. the results of a statistical analysis showed that these features were the most effective to distinguish between nonsurvivors and patients surviving more than 5 years.
epithelial cyst of the fourth ventricle. case report. a case of epithelial cyst in the fourth ventricle of a 4-year-old child is described. a single epithelial layer with a clear basement membrane lining the cyst wall was observed. there were no prominent histological findings to suggest a pathogenesis for this cyst based on immunohistochemical or ultrastructural studies; however, the cyst fluid contained significant amounts of carcinoembryonic antigen. it is considered that the epithelial layer lining the cyst wall was possibly of endodermal origin.
comparison of pulse oximeters: accuracy at low arterial pressure in volunteers. a laboratory model was developed of limb hypoperfusion in volunteers, using parital occlusion of the brachial artery with consequent reduction in radial artery pulse pressure. this was used to compare the function of 13 pulse oximeters and the effect of reduced pulse pressure and mild hypoxia on these devices. with the exception of one device, all the pulse oximeters studied demonstrated similar accuracies at pulse pressures exceeding 20 mm hg. there were however, significant differences between several of the pulse oximeters in both ability to display readings and accuracy of readings displayed when brachial artery occlusion reduced radial artery pulse pressures equal to or less than 20 mm hg.
glucagon: prehospital therapy for hypoglycemia. study objective: this study evaluated the efficacy of glucagon for prehospital therapy of hypoglycemia in patients without iv access. design: prospective clinical trial. setting: prehospital in a busy, urban emergency medical services system. type of participants: fifty consecutive patients presenting with documented hypoglycemia (chemstrip bg less than or equal to 80 mg/dl) and symptoms of decreased level of consciousness, syncope, or seizure were enrolled. measures and main results: data collected included pretreatment (chemstrip bg) and post-treatment serum glucose (hospital assay) as well as assessment of level of consciousness by a quantitative measure, the glasgow coma score, and by a qualitative scale (0 to 3). the mean pretreatment blood glucose of 33.2 +/- 23.3 mg/dl increased after treatment to 133.3 +/- 57.3 mg/dl. qualitative level of consciousness increased from a mean of 1.26 +/- .96 to 2.42 +/- .94 and glasgow coma score increased from a mean of 9.0 +/- 4.19 to 13.04 +/- 3.68. the mean time until response was 8.8 minutes in those who responded to both level of consciousness criteria 82% (41 of 50). glucagon administered for hypoglycemia resulted in a glucose increase in 98% (49 of 50) with headache as the only side effect noted in 4% (two of 50) of patients (p less than .0001). conclusion: glucagon is safe and effective therapy for hypoglycemia in the prehospital setting.
hemolytic transfusion reaction following transfusion of frozen and washed autologous red cells a case of hemolytic transfusion reaction, accompanied by hypotension and followed by transient renal failure, occurred after the transfusion of 1 unit of previously frozen autologous red cells. subsequent investigation revealed the probable cause of the hemolysis to be inadequate deglycerolization of the unit. the cause of the associated symptoms is unknown. possibilities include nephrotoxic effects of hemoglobin or stroma, toxic effects of glycerol, or release of vasoactive or thrombogenic substances from lysed red cells. this case of a hemolytic reaction adds to the known risks of autologous transfusion.
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus. we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy. the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks' gestation. although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester, she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester. polyarteritis nodosa (pan)-like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles, with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges, brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy. pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle. this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle.
expression of class ii molecules on intestinal epithelial cells in humans. differences between normal and inflammatory bowel disease. expression of class ii antigens on human intestinal epithelial cells was assessed using a sensitive avidinbiotin-peroxidase technique. hla-dr was present predominantly in the normal small bowel with diminished but evident expression in the colon. hla-dp staining was less prominent, and hla-dq was absent. in inflammatory bowel disease the expression of both hla-dr and hla-dp was increased, but that for hla-dq remained absent, suggesting an inherent defect in the ability of intestinal epithelial cells to express hla-dq. in related experiments, an interferon gamma-treated malignant epithelial cell line t84 also failed to stain for hla-dq and hla-dp despite the presence of hla-dr. isolated rnas for all three subclasses of hla-d were detectable by slot-blot analysis, suggesting that the lack of hla-dq expression relates to posttranscriptional defects in intestinal epithelium. these and other differences with conventional class ii antigen-positive accessory cells (macrophages/b cells) may help to explain the unique properties of intestinal epithelial cells as antigen-presenting cells.
effect of intraesophageal location and muscarinic blockade on balloon distension-induced chest pain. intraesophageal balloon distension has been introduced recently as a provocative test in the assessment of patients with noncardiac chest pain. in order to examine the effect of balloon location and muscarinic blockade on distension-induced pain, 10 asymptomatic male volunteers were studied on two separate days using a low-compliance perfused manometry system that incorporated a silicone rubber balloon. five-second-duration balloon distensions using balloon volumes of 2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10 ml of air were performed with the balloon located both 16 cm (proximal site) and 6 cm (distal site) above the lower esophageal sphincter (les) before and after administration of atropine (10 micrograms/kg intravenously) or placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion. a standardized scoring system was used to assess the balloon distension-induced pain. pain scores varied directly with balloon volume but were consistently higher with the balloon located at the proximal site versus the distal site. this was not associated with any differences in intraballoon pressures between the two sites; however, contraction amplitude orad to the balloon was greater with balloon distension at the proximal site. atropine significantly decreased pain sensation scores with the balloon located distally but not proximally. this attenuation was not associated with significant changes in intraballoon pressures; however, contractions orad to the balloon were markedly inhibited by atropine with distal but not with proximal distension. these studies indicate that balloon distension-induced pain varies depending on the location of distension. this difference is not explained by differences in esophageal wall tension at the site of distension.
chloroprocaine antagonism of epidural opioid analgesia: a receptor-specific phenomenon? sixty healthy patients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery under epidural anesthesia were randomized to receive either lidocaine or 2-chloroprocaine as the primary local anesthetic agent. when patients first complained of postoperative pain in the recovery room, they were given either fentanyl 50 micrograms or butorphanol 2 mg, epidurally, in a randomized, blinded fashion. postoperative analgesia, quantitated on a visual analogue scale, as well as time elapsed until first request for supplemental opioid, did not differ for patients receiving butorphanol after either 2-chloroprocaine or lidocaine anesthesia. in contrast, epidural fentanyl produced a shorter and lesser degree of sensory analgesia after 2-chloroprocaine use, whereas epidural fentanyl after lidocaine anesthesia provided pain relief similar to that seen in the butorphanol groups. side effects were limited to somnolence with butorphanol and pruritus with fentanyl. no evidence of respiratory depression was seen in any patient. we conclude that 2 mg of butorphanol epidurally provides approximately 2 to 3 h of effective analgesia after cesarean delivery with either lidocaine or 2-chloroprocaine anesthesia. epidural fentanyl seems to be antagonized when 2-chloroprocaine, but not lidocaine, is used as the primary local anesthetic agent. we suggest a possible mu-receptor-specific etiology for this effect.
diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea. the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea is frequently made by taking a meticulous history coupled with a high index of suspicion. snoring and hypersomnolence are clinical features common to individuals with sleep apnea. since snoring is said to be a "disease of listeners," it is not uncommon that bed partners reported an increased incidence of depression and marital displeasure. it is for this reason that the spouse or bed partner should be interviewed, since the patient may not be aware of any sleeping problems. physicians should also be alert to complaints of excessive daytime somnolence, because studies have shown that patients with obstructive sleep apnea are at increased risk for automobile crashes. it has been estimated that approx 58,000 motor vehicle accidents involving people with sleep apnea will occur in the us each yr. by proper diagnosis and treatment, the physician is in a unique position to prevent at least some of the automobile accidents that result from falling asleep while driving. polysomnography is the only definitive way to obtain a diagnosis of sleep apnea. this allows the physician not only to diagnosis the disorder, but also helps in the evaluation of the severity of the syndrome and selection of therapy. an ent evaluation is also important in ruling out anatomic disorders that can cause upper airway obstruction. certain factors, such as alcohol and sedative ingestion, may aggravate the condition in a person predisposed to sleep apnea, and subtle changes, such as unexplained hypertension, polycythemia, and cor pulmonale, should lead one to investigate the possibility of sleep apnea as the etiology.
transformed and nontransformed cells differ in stability and cell cycle regulation of a binding activity to the murine thymidine kinase promoter. a dna binding activity to an upstream region of the murine thymidine kinase gene is regulated differently in a transformed and nontransformed cell line pair. differences in regulation were observed (i) after serum levels were reduced, (ii) when serum levels were returned to initial high levels, and (iii) while protein synthesis was inhibited. after reduction of serum levels, the binding activity was unstable in nontransformed balb/c 3t3 clone a31 cells but was significantly more stable in benzo[a]pyrene-transformed balb/c 3t3 cells. after serum concentration was returned to high levels, the kinetic pattern of the binding activity differed between nontransformed and transformed cells. while protein synthesis was inhibited, the binding activity was unstable in nontransformed cells and stable in transformed cells. partial inhibition of protein synthesis--a more stringent condition to test instability--prevented the induction of the binding activity in nontransformed cells. previously, the labile protein hypothesis set forth the criterion that a protein regulating the onset of dna synthesis should be unstable in nontransformed cells and stable in transformed cells. the dna binding activity described here satisfies this criterion.
mucinous cystadenoma of the lung. a report of two cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analysis. we describe two patients who presented with solitary pulmonary masses that consisted of unilocular cysts lined by columnar mucinous epithelium. the cysts contained copious mucus. the epithelial lining of the cysts showed foci of stratification and papillary infolding. histologically identical lesions have previously been termed unusual mucous cysts or mucinous cystadenomas. we believe that these tumors are true neoplasms differentiating toward the respiratory epithelial mucous cell. they should be distinguished from a variety of pulmonary neoplasms including bronchoalveolar carcinoma, bronchial mucous gland adenoma, mucoepidermoid carcinoma, and metastatic adenocarcinoma.
brain death and organ donation in a neurosurgical unit: audit of recent practice objective--to assess the potential for increasing the yield of donors by comparing the current pattern of brain death and organ donation in a neurosurgical unit with that reported in 1981 and with a recent national audit. design--retrospective review of all deaths for 1986, 1987, and 1988 and prospective data for 1989. setting--a regional neurosurgical unit serving 2.7 million population. results--of 553 deaths, 35% (191) patients died while on a ventilator and 17% (92) after discontinuation of ventilation. medical contraindications to donation were found in 23% (32) of 141 patients tested for brain death, in 38% (19) of 50 patients who died while being ventilated who were not tested, and in 12% (11) of 92 patients no longer being ventilated. consent for donation was sought in 88% (96) of 109 medically suitable brain dead patients and granted in 70% (67) of these. half those with permission for multiorgan donation had only the kidneys removed. conclusions--more organs may be lost owing to transplant team logistics than by failure to seek consent from relatives of brain dead patients. the estimated size of the pool of potential donors depends on what types of patients might be considered. ensuring that all who die while being ventilated are tested for brain death and considering the potential for donation before withdrawing ventilation could yield more donors. ventilating more patients who are hopelessly brain damaged to secure more donors raises ethical and economic issues.
overexpression of her-2/neu in endometrial cancer is associated with advanced stage disease. prior studies have shown that overexpression of her-2/neu occurs in one third of breast and ovarian cancers and that overexpression is associated with poor prognosis. we used a monoclonal antibody to assess immunohistochemically the level of her-2/neu expression in normal and malignant endometrium. in 24 normal endometrial samples light to moderate (1+ to 2+) staining for her-2/neu was seen in the glands, and there was no variation in intensity of staining during the menstrual cycle. among 95 endometrial adenocarcinomas, nine (9%) were found to have heavier staining for her-2/neu than was seen in normal endometrium (3+). high expression of her-2/neu was found in 27% of patients with metastatic disease compared with 4% of patients with disease confined to the uterus (p less than 0.005). high her-2/neu expression also was associated with absence of estrogen receptor (p less than 0.005) and with increased mortality from cancer. further studies are needed to determine the significance of her-2/neu overexpression in endometrial cancer.
modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences. the influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive (shr) and the dahl salt-sensitive (ss/jr) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal f1 hybrids that were nurtured, respectively, during prenatal and postnatal life by shr or ss/jr mothers. following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8% nacl at 35 days of age, f1 rats reared by shr mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than f1s reared by ss/jrs. across reciprocal f1 female groups, enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure, but this association was not seen across reciprocal f1 male groups. there was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each f1/gender subgroup: rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke. lower day 35 body weights (before exposure to the high-salt diet) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal f1 groups, and within three of the four f1/gender subgroups. the differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal f1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of shr and ss/jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers.
absence of estrogen receptors in dysplastic nevi and malignant melanoma. benign nevi, dysplastic nevi, and primary and metastatic malignant melanomas were evaluated for the presence of sex hormone binding and estrogen receptor protein. we have confirmed the observation of ellis et al. that some pigmented lesions possess sex hormone-binding proteins. we could not demonstrate a true estrogen receptor in any benign nevi, dysplastic nevi, primary melanomas, or metastatic melanomas. thus the ability to bind estrogen or progesterone does not correlate with the presence of a true estrogen receptor. lack of nuclear estrogen receptors suggests that the influence of estrogen on the pathophysiology of melanoma or of benign melanocytic nevi may not be significant.
memory-contingent saccades and the substantia nigra postulate for essential blepharospasm. essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia are related focal dystonias of unknown aetiology. blepharospasm induced by acute dopamine depletion in parkinsonism restricts saccade initiation possibly via the substantia nigra pars reticulata (snpr). if essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia similarly restrict saccades, then a selective, somatotopically arranged pathway such as the snpr may be involved. to test this possibility memory-contingent and visually-guided saccades were measured in patients with essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia. the latency of both forms of saccades was either significantly prolonged or excessively variable, while the accuracy and peak velocity of these fast eye movements were similar to age-matched control subjects. essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia alter the initiation of saccadic eye movements. subcortical brain regions or pathways where eyelid, saccade and cranial/cervical motor control are somatotopically approximated, such as the snpr, may be involved in blepharospasm.
itraconazole therapy for nonmeningeal coccidioidomycosis: clinical and laboratory observations. itraconazole, a new oral triazole antifungal agent, was administered in 75 courses to patients with chronic coccidioidomycosis at dosages of 50 to 400 mg/day for a median duration of 10 months. assessment of efficacy was made with a standardized scoring system. responses were seen in 42 of 58 assessable courses (72%). nonresponse occurred exclusively in patients who had failed previous therapy and was most common in pulmonary disease. toxicity was minimal at the doses studied. pharmacokinetic analysis of itraconazole in serum at steady state showed negligible circadian variation; differences in serum concentrations among patients were large. clinical isolates of coccidioides immitis showed uniform in vitro susceptibility to itraconazole. itraconazole shows impressive activity in this series of patients with refractory coccidioidomycosis. further evaluation of itraconazole in this and in other systemic mycoses is in order.
improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction. in previous studies, we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ([99mtc]ida) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis, except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree. in this study, we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction (hef) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [99mtc]ida. our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone, but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease (ihd). the purpose of this study was to compare the hef in patients with profound cholestasis (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl) due to either ihd or common bile duct obstruction (cbdo). normal subjects (n = 13) had an hef of 100%. patients with cbdo (n = 13) had slightly reduced hef values (92.8 +/- 3.2%) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia (6.1 +/- 1.0 mg/dl). patients with ihd (n = 23) had a markedly reduced hef (43.1 +/- 4.1%) which was significantly lower than patients with cbdo and normal subjects (p less than 0.001). we conclude that the determination of the hef during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl).
local anesthesia for neonatal circumcisions: are family practice residents likely to use it? dorsal penile nerve block with lidocaine (dpnb) is a local anesthetic technique for neonatal circumcision which is both effective and consistent with ethical concerns for infant welfare. as such, it should be included in training programs that prepare residents to care for newborns. to assess the current level of dpnb use by residents in a family practice training program and to identify attitudes and other factors that relate to use, a survey was sent to 127 residents in the department of family practice and community health, university of minnesota. of the 101 respondents, 55% had used dpnb, and 17% could be characterized as high users, employing the technique for over one half of the circumcisions they performed. residents with comprehensive understanding of the newborn's capacity to feel pain were more likely to be using dpnb than their less well-informed counterparts. four factors were identified as predicting use: cooperation of nursery staff for the procedure, accessibility of instruction in pnb technique, belief that pnb is effective in reducing infant pain, and likelihood of parents giving consent for pnb. these results suggest strategies which may be implemented by family practice educators who wish to promote the principles and techniques of dpnb.
choroid plexus tumors in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome. choroid plexus neoplasms are rare epithelial tumors of the central nervous system. a carcinoma of the choroid plexus occurred in a child from a family with the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome (li-fraumeni or sbla syndrome), an inherited condition characterized by the development of diverse neoplasms (sarcoma, breast cancer, brain tumors, leukemia, adrenal cortical carcinoma, and others). choroid plexus carcinomas were identified in two kindreds previously reported with the syndrome. the literature contains reports of choroid plexus neoplasms occurring in families and in individuals with multiple primary tumors. choroid plexus neoplasm may be a manifestation of the inherited proclivity to tumor development in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome.
blue breath holding is benign. in their recent publication in this journal, southall et al described typical cyanotic breath holding spells, both in otherwise healthy children and in those with brainstem lesions and other malformations. their suggestions regarding possible autonomic disturbances may require further study, but they have adduced no scientific evidence to contradict the accepted view that in the intact child blue breath holding spells are benign. those families in which an infant suffers an 'apparently life threatening event' deserve immense understanding and help, and it behoves investigators to exercise extreme care and self criticism in the presentation of new knowledge which may bear upon their management and their morale.
surgical treatment of the retethered spinal cord after repair of lipomyelomeningocele. in a series of 75 patients with surgically treated lipomyelomeningoceles, the neurological condition of six patients deteriorated 6 months to 14 years after the operation due to repeat tethering of the spinal cord. the tethering resulted from postoperative dense adhesion between the cord and the overlying dura mater. two of the six patients underwent conventional repeat untethering procedures, and the remaining four were successfully treated with a new surgical technique developed by the authors to prevent such dural adhesion. for this procedure, after complete untethering of the spinal cord, the lumbosacral cord is retained in the center of the dural sac by fine stay sutures between the pia mater of the conus medullaris and the ventral dura mater. in addition, the dura mater is tacked to the posterior arch which is reconstructed with bone grafts at one or two bifid vertebral levels. during a postoperative follow-up period of 1 to 3 years, no further deterioration has been observed and magnetic resonance studies have demonstrated a space filled with cerebrospinal fluid (csf) around the lumbosacral cord. the authors conclude that long-term observation, both neurological and radiological, is essential even after successful repair of a lipomyelomeningocele. this new surgical procedure can maintain a csf bath around the lumbosacral cord, thus preventing dural adhesion. application of this technique will hopefully be beneficial in lipomyelomeningocele patients with a high risk of cord retethering after initial repair.
clinical and doppler echocardiographic follow-up after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for aortic valve stenosis. percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has been shown to increase the aortic orifice area and to improve clinical symptoms. however, there are only few data concerning long-term results after balloon valvuloplasty. in this study, 36 patients (11 men, 25 women, mean age 75 +/- 8 years) were followed after balloon valvuloplasty for a period of up to 18 months by means of clinical parameters and repeated doppler echocardiographic measurements after 1, 3, 6, 12 and 18 months. invasive measurements revealed a decrease of the systolic peak gradient from 78 +/- 24 to 38 +/- 13 mm hg (p less than 0.001), and an increase in the aortic orifice area from 0.58 +/- 0.23 to 0.93 +/- 0.2 cm2 (p less than 0.001). the doppler echocardiographic approach revealed that the maximal instantaneous gradient decreased from 96 +/- 26 to 67 +/- 22 mm hg (p less than 0.001). the aortic orifice area increased from 0.49 +/- 0.16 to 0.73 +/- 0.21 cm2 (p less than 0.001). three patients (8%) died in the hospital. after hospital discharge, 16 patients (44%) died and 8 patients (22%) underwent successful aortic valve replacement after a mean follow-up of 8 +/- 6 months. nine patients (25%) were alive after a follow-up period of 18 months. seven of these (19%) remained clinically improved. during follow-up, the doppler echocardiographic results revealed a continuous trend toward the preprocedural severity of the aortic valve stenosis. progression of restenosis assessed by doppler echocardiographic measurements was accelerated in the group of patients who subsequently died or underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty or aortic valve replacement.
severe tricuspid regurgitation after mitral valve repair: diagnosis by intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography. transesophageal echocardiography facilitates the evaluation of valvular repair in the operating room. the functional valvular morphology and degree of valvular regurgitation can be assessed before and after repair. this technique can also identify unsuspected findings--in this case, severe tricuspid regurgitation complicating cardiopulmonary bypass. we report a previously undescribed cause of traumatic tricuspid regurgitation.
calcium antagonists in the management of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: a review. cerebral arterial vasospasm and infarction is the leading cause of death and disability among patients who reach a major medical center after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). recent evidence suggests that two calcium antagonists, nimodipine or nicardipine, may be useful in preventing this important complication of sah. this paper reviews the current status of these two calcium antagonists in the management of sah.
postoperative follow-up of patients with early breast cancer. patterns of care among clinical oncologists and a review of the literature. eighty clinical oncologists in the southeastern united states were surveyed to determine their strategies for follow-up care after primary treatment of early-stage breast cancer. the frequency of use of the history and physical examination, complete blood count, liver function tests, carcinoembryonic antigen levels, chest x-ray, skeletal survey, bone scan, liver scan, and mammogram for observing hypothetical low- and high-risk patients was assessed. yearly mammograms were recommended by more than 95% of respondents. history and physical examination were the modalities used most often, whereas periodic bone and liver scans were used only in a minority of patients. a review of the literature supported the strategy of the respondents in this survey and further underscored the cost-effectiveness of the history and physical examination in detecting recurrence during follow-up. based on this survey and supporting literature, recommendations for reasonable yet cost-conscious follow-up are presented.
prognostic significance of doppler measures of diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis. a doppler echocardiography study. background. we have previously characterized the left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities in cardiac amyloidosis by doppler methods. the various filling patterns were shown to be related to the degree of cardiac amyloid infiltration. the purpose of this study was to determine the value of doppler diastolic filling variables for assessing prognosis in cardiac amyloidosis. methods and results. we performed pulsed-wave doppler studies of the left ventricular inflow and obtained clinical follow-up data in 63 consecutive patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis. all patients had typical echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement. the patients were subdivided into two groups according to deceleration time: group 1 (33 patients) had a deceleration time of 150 msec or less, indicative of restrictive physiology, and group 2 (30 patients) had a deceleration time of more than 150 msec. of the 63 patients, 32 (51%) died during a mean follow-up period of 18 +/- 12 months. of these deaths, 25 (78%) were cardiac deaths, and 19 of the 25 patients (76%) were from group 1. the 1-year probability of survival in group 1 was significantly less than that in group 2 (49% versus 92%, p less than 0.001). bivariate analysis revealed that the combination of the doppler variables of shortened deceleration time and increased early diastolic filling velocity to atrial filling velocity ratio were stronger predictors of cardiac death than were the two-dimensional echocardiographic variables of mean left ventricular wall thickness and fractional shortening. conclusions. doppler-derived left ventricular diastolic filling variables are important predictors of survival in cardiac amyloidosis.
clinical and pathological features of bacillary peliosis hepatis in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection background. peliosis hepatis is characterized by cystic, blood-filled spaces in the liver and is seen in patients with chronic infections or advanced cancer and as a consequence of therapy with anabolic steroids. cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis is a bacterial infection that occurs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection; its histologic appearance is that of a pseudoneoplastic vascular proliferation. methods. we studied liver tissue from eight hiv-infected patients with peliosis hepatis, two of whom also had cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis. for comparison we examined tissue from four patients who had peliosis hepatis without hiv infection. tissues were examined histologically on routine sections and with special stains and electron microscopy. results. the histologic features seen in peliosis hepatis associated with hiv infection, but not in the four cases unrelated to hiv infection, were myxoid stroma and clumps of a granular purple material that on warthin-starry staining and electron microscopy proved to be bacilli. the bacilli, which could not be cultured, were morphologically identical to those found in the skin lesions of cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis. the clinical courses of two of the patients with this "bacillary peliosis hepatis" indicate that it responds to antibiotic treatment. conclusions. hiv-associated bacillary peliosis hepatis is an unusual, treatable opportunistic infection, probably caused by the same organism that causes cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis. our failure to find bacilli in non-hiv-associated cases implies that other pathogenetic mechanisms may also be responsible for peliosis hepatis.
cyclosporine enhances the growth of carcinogen-induced enzyme-altered foci in rat liver. cyclosporine, a powerful immunosuppressant, has been used successfully for organ transplantation. its efficacy on liver transplants of patients with primary hepatic tumors remains controversial because of a high rate of recurrence of the original tumors in the transplanted livers. in this study, we experimentally tested whether cyclosporine exerts any effects on the growth of carcinogen-initiated liver cells using the short-term assays of rat liver carcinogenesis. dietary cyclosporine, which maintained sufficient levels of blood cyclosporine and suppressed host immune functions, enhanced the development of the glutathione s-transferase, placental form-positive hepatocyte foci in the liver of male f-344 rats treated with a single weekly dose of diethylnitrosamine (75 mg/kg) for 3 wk. dietary cyclosporine also accelerated the growth of preformed glutathione s-transferase, placental form-positive foci induced by a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (250 mg/kg) followed by the promoting regimen of a choline-deficient diet. it is possible that the enhancement of the size of hepatocyte foci by cyclosporine could be due to stimulation of growth or inhibition of regression. the mechanisms by which cyclosporine modifies the growth of preneoplastic lesions in the liver are not yet fully understood. possible involvement of immunologically relevant cells in the liver, kupffer cells and pit cells in the process is suggested.
a cellist with arm pain: thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome. we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity. abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery, and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry. temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference (delta-t) from one hand to the other. in 57 controls, mean delta-t at rest was .309 +/- .254c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t. in our patient, delta-t was ten times control (3.6c). angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain. our patient's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity. intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome.
cauda equina syndrome associated with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts in ankylosing spondylitis: improvement following surgical therapy. a case of cauda equina syndrome with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts complicating ankylosing spondylitis (as) is described. the value of computerised tomography (ct) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) as a non-invasive means of establishing the diagnosis is emphasised. in contrast to previously reported cases the patient showed neurological improvement following surgical therapy. surgery may be indicated in some patients, particularly when there is nerve root compression by the arachnoid cysts and when the patient is seen early before irreversible damage to the cauda equina has occurred.
carotid-cavernous sinus fistula associated with a primitive trigeminal artery. carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas are not rare, but they have never been reported in association with persistent primitive trigeminal artery. we recently encountered such a case. the jaeger-hamby procedure was employed, with mandatory occlusion of the primitive trigeminal artery.
apical secretion of lysosomal enzymes in rabbit pancreas occurs via a secretagogue regulated pathway and is increased after pancreatic duct obstruction. lysosomal hydrolases such as cathepsin b are apically secreted from rabbit pancreatic acinar cells via a regulated as opposed to a constitutive pathway. intravenous infusion of the cholecystokinin analogue caerulein results in highly correlated apical secretion of digestive and lysosomal enzymes, suggesting that they are discharged from the same presecretory compartment (zymogen granules). lysosomal enzymes appear to enter that compartment as a result of missorting. after 7 h of duct obstruction is relieved, caerulein-stimulated apical secretion of cathepsin b and amylase is increased, but the ratio of cathepsin b to amylase secretion is not different than that following caerulein stimulation of animals never obstructed. these findings indicate that duct obstruction causes an increased amount of both lysosomal and digestive enzymes to accumulate within the secretagogue releasable compartment but that duct obstruction does not increase the degree of lysosomal enzyme missorting into that compartment. pancreatic duct obstruction causes lysosomal hydrolases to become colocalized with digestive enzymes in organelles that, in size and distribution, resemble zymogen granules but that are not subject to secretion in response to secretagogue stimulation. these organelles may be of importance in the development of pancreatitis.
acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in sjl/j mice induced by a synthetic peptide of myelin proteolipid protein. clinical, histologic, and ultrastructural characteristics of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (eae) induced by sensitization with a synthetic peptide corresponding to mouse myelin proteolipid protein (plp) residues 139-151 hclgkwlghpdkf were studied in sjl/j mice. groups of mice were immunized with 20, 50, or 100 nmol of the peptide and were killed from seven to 28 days after sensitization or when they were moribund. beginning on day 9, the mice showed signs of eae and the disease progressed rapidly to paralysis. central nervous system (cns) inflammation, edema, gliosis, and demyelination were found in all mice killed between days 10 and 28 and white matter lesion areas correlated with clinical score at the time the mice were killed. peripheral nerve roots and the cauda equina did not have lesions. within the range studied, the severity of clinical or histologic disease was the same regardless of the plp peptide dose. two of ten mice immunized with 100 nmol and none of 14 mice given smaller doses of a synthetic peptide of mouse myelin basic protein (mbp) showed clinical eae. these mice had small numbers of cns lesions that were indistinguishable from those in plp peptide-sensitized mice. these findings demonstrate that immunization of sjl/j mice with plp peptide 139-151 produces a disease with the clinical and morphologic features of cns tissue-, whole plp-, whole mbp-, and mbp peptide-induced acute eae. thus, plp is a major encephalitogen and immune reactions to epitopes of different myelin proteins may induce identical patterns of injury in the cns.
six physicians with inflammatory bowel disease. this essay tells the stories of six physicians with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) to emphasize how important denial and control become when a physician is a patient. guilt at the supposed psychosomatic "origin" of ibd suggests that we as physicians should never blame our patients for getting sick.
the variable extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease: quantification by thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography to assess the extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease of variable severity and location, quantitative exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography was performed in 158 consecutive patients with angiographically proved single vessel coronary artery disease. the extent of abnormal left ventricular perfusion was quantified from computer-generated polar maps of three-dimensional myocardial radioactivity. patients with only a moderate (51% to 69%) stenosis tended to have a small perfusion defect irrespective of the coronary artery involved. whereas a perfusion defect measuring greater than or equal to 10% of the left ventricle was found in 78% of patients with no prior infarction and severe (greater than or equal to 70%) stenosis, this was observed in only 24% of patients with moderate stenosis. perfusion defect size increased with increasing severity of stenosis for the entire group without infarction and for those with left anterior descending, right and circumflex coronary artery stenosis. however, the correlation between stenosis severity and perfusion defect size was at best only modest (r = 0.38, p = 0.0001). the left anterior descending artery was shown to be the most important of the three coronary arteries for providing left ventricular perfusion. proximal stenosis of this artery produced a perfusion defect approximately twice as large as that found in patients with a proximal right or circumflex artery stenosis. however, marked heterogeneity in perfusion defect size existed among all three vessels despite comparable stenosis severity. this was most apparent for the left anterior descending coronary artery, where mid vessel stenosis commonly produced a perfusion defect similar in size to that found in proximally stenosed vessels.
are cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy equivalent operations for pancreatic pseudocysts? to compare the effectiveness of cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy for treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts, 39 patients with cystgastrostomy were compared to 59 patients with cystjejunostomy. the groups were comparable in age, sex, cause of pancreatitis, pseudocyst location, symptoms, and preoperative serum amylase level. cysts treated with cystgastrostomy were larger (mean diameter, 11.1 +/- 0.9 cm) than cysts treated by cystjejunostomy (mean diameter, 6.7 +/- 0.7 cm) (p less than 0.05). mean duration of surgery was 148 +/- 11 minutes for cystgastrostomy versus 265 +/- 15 minutes for cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05). mean blood loss was 397 +/- 82 ml for cystgastrostomy versus 703 +/- 80 ml for cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05) mean intraoperative fluid requirements were 2640 +/- 313 ml for cystgastrostomy and 4403 +/- 362 ml for cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05). cyst recurrence was 10% for cystgastrostomy versus 7% for cystgastrostomy. postoperative gastrointestinal bleeding occurred in 8% of patients with cystgastrostomy and in 2% of patients with cystjejunostomy. infection problems with cystjejunostomy included two wound infections and one case of septicemia; infection problems with cystjejunostomy included five intraabdominal abscesses, two wound infections, and one case of pneumonia. two patients died with cystgastrostomy (both from gastrointestinal bleeding); two patients died with cystjejunostomy (one from intraabdominal sepsis and one from pulmonary embolus). cystgastrostomy was used for significantly larger pseudocysts and was associated with significantly less blood loss and operating time than cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05). morbidity and mortality from cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy were comparable, although gastrointestinal bleeding was more common with cystgastrostomy and intraabdominal abscess was more common with cystjejunostomy. since cystgastrostomy can usually be performed more quickly and with less blood loss, it should be considered whenever anatomically feasible.
increased susceptibility to hypoxia of prolonged action potential duration in ventricular papillary muscles from diabetic rats. the action potential duration (apd) of ventricular muscles obtained from diabetic animals is reported to be prolonged. we studied the effect of varied periods of diabetes on apd prolongation using isolated ventricular papillary muscles from streptozocin-injected rats. we found that a diabetic period greater than 30 wk was necessary for the evolution of significant prolongation of apd. we then studied the effect of repeated hypoxia (po2 40 mmhg) and normoxia (po2 300 mmhg) on prolonged apd of diabetic muscles and compared the findings with those from control rats. transmembrane potentials were recorded with conventional glass microelectrodes. under normoxic conditions, the apds of diabetic muscles were significantly prolonged, the maximum upstroke velocity of action potentials tended to be decreased, and the resting membrane potential was not changed significantly compared with controls. the first hypoxia (20 min) shortened the apd in both diabetic and control rats but more so in diabetic rats, thereby making the apd of diabetic rats virtually identical to the control rat apd during the hypoxia. on subsequent reoxygenation (30 min), these hypoxia-induced changes were almost recovered. the second hypoxia (20 min) produced more severe shortening of the apd in both muscle types, and the effect was again far greater in diabetic rats than controls, ending with a reversed sequence of apds and the apd of diabetic muscles much shorter than the controls. excessive shortening of apd in diabetic muscles during hypoxic conditions was speculated to be due to greater increases in the outward k+ current through atp-regulated k+ channels that may be secondary to the more severe reduction of intracellular atp concentrations in diabetic versus control hearts.
differences between florid osseous dysplasia and chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis. florid osseous dysplasia (fod) is confused in the literature with chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis. two cases of each condition are presented to demonstrate the differences between them. in fod, there are multiple lobulated sclerotic masses in several quadrants of the jaws, usually in black females. in some cases, the sclerotic masses are exposed to the oral cavity, resulting in a secondary osteomyelitis. periapical cemental dysplasia is often found in association with fod. chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis is a primary inflammatory condition of the mandible. patients have cyclic episodes of unilateral pain and swelling. the affected region of the mandible exhibits a diffuse opacity with poorly defined borders. although women are affected more often than men, black persons are not particularly susceptible.
the ivh complex of lesions: cerebrovascular injury in the preterm infant. the term intraventricular hemorrhage has become associated with a variety of cerebrovascular insults in preterm infants. because of a shared pathophysiology and timing, these are the neurologic lesions to search for when evaluating sick preterm infants. this complex of lesions is common and, when parenchymal injury occurs, likely to result in neurologic sequelae. a review of the variety of injuries, their pathophysiology, their diagnosis by cranial ultrasonography, and their prognosis is offered. emphasis is placed on the need for assessment over time when evaluating parenchymal lesions in preterm infants.
colorectal cancer: have we identified an effective screening strategy? three currently used screening methods are aimed at detecting colorectal cancer when it is asymptomatic and curable, and at detecting polyps so that they can be removed before they can progress to cancer. digital rectal examinations are relatively cheap and easy but can detect only a small fraction of large-bowel cancers. sigmoidoscopy is more sensitive, but its low acceptability to patients has been only partially mitigated by the introduction of the 35-cm flexible instrument. fecal occult blood testing has limited sensitivity because blood from cancers and polyps is neither continuously shed nor uniformly distributed in feces; specificity and positive predictive value are also low because of other sources of blood in the stool. prudent judgment suggests that all of these screening tests may prevent death from colorectal cancer in some patients. however, none has been proven effective in general use by well-controlled studies. case-control studies can provide timely and valuable new evidence in this regard; the authors' investigations in progress are described. the current lack of strong evidence in support of these screening tests should not be interpreted as evidence against their use.
estrogen receptors in the external anal sphincter. inasmuch as anal competence in women is reduced after the age of 50 years, it may be dependent on effects of estrogens. in this study, samples of the external anal sphincter were analyzed for the presence of estrogen receptors and were found to be present at a median concentration of 5.0 fmol per milligram of protein (range, 1.9 to 13) in women (n = 7), and 1.1 fmol per milligram of protein (range, 0 to 3.2) in men (n = 7). these findings are of interest with regard to the treatment of idiopathic anal incontinence.
turner's syndrome, fibromuscular dysplasia, and stroke. we report a 43-year-old woman who presented with a right frontoparietotemporal ischemic stroke. she had been diagnosed with turner's syndrome during childhood and had a history of chronic estrogen therapy. cerebral angiography showed lesions characteristics of fibromuscular dysplasia involving the right internal carotid and right vertebral arteries. we are not aware of any previous reports describing an association between fibromuscular dysplasia and turner's syndrome. although chronic estrogen therapy cannot be ruled out as a cause of this patient's stroke, we suggest a possible etiologic relation between these two entities.
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids. a patient with pernicious anemia, atrophic non-antral gastritis, hypergastrinemia, and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months, including 15 months after gastric resection. in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa, suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis.
the potential of 2-deoxy-2[18f]fluoro-d-glucose (fdg) for the detection of tumor involvement in lymph nodes. to assess the potential of fdg for pet imaging of nodal tumor metastases, we evaluated its uptake into normal lymph nodes, tumor-involved lymph nodes, and subcutaneous tumor xenografts in rodents. normal lymph nodes in mice and rats accumulate fdg moderately, developing node/blood ratios of 1.3-11.9/1 at 2 hr following i.v. injection. by contrast, fdg given subcutaneously to healthy sprague dawley rats developed very high normal draining lymph node/blood ratios (272/1) versus 7.7/1 by i.v. injection. in nude mice, subcutaneous human ovarian cancer xenografts had 1.27-fold more uptake relative to blood than did normal popliteal lymph nodes. subcutaneous tumor xenografts of rat breast cancer developed tumor/normal node uptake ratios of 4.91 +/- 0.43/1 and tumor/blood ratios of 6.6 +/- 0.9 at 2 hr postinjection. mouse nodes involved with 38c13 murine b-cell lymphoma had mean node/blood ratios of 42.9 +/- 6.7/1 and tumored node/normal lymph node uptake of 6.3/1. thus, fdg given intravenously but not subcutaneusly (due to high normal nodal uptake) has potential as an agent for the detection of metastatic tumors in regional lymph nodes using pet scanning.
pathophysiology of hypertension in blacks. the pathophysiology of hypertension in the black population differs to some extent from that of the nonblack population. although black hypertensives exhibit enhanced sodium retention, expanded plasma volume, lower plasma renin activity, and a greater increase in blood pressure in response to high levels of na+ intake compared with nonblack hypertensives, there is considerable heterogeneity in these studies. alterations in ion transport mechanisms, such as a decrease in na+k(+)-atpase activity and na+k+ cotransport, have been demonstrated in the black hypertensive population. those features provide the physiologic basis for the differential response to monotherapy with diuretics and, perhaps, with calcium channel blockers, that is observed in black hypertensives, particularly when compared with responses to beta-blockers or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
increased uptake of bromodeoxyuridine by hepatocytes from early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis. the relationship between dna synthesis activities of hepatocytes in biopsied specimens and liver volume was studied in various stages of primary biliary cirrhosis using an in vitro bromodeoxyuridine (a thymidine analogue)-anti-bromodeoxyuridine reaction and computed tomography. the mean bromodeoxyuridine (+/- se) labeling index for 10 patients in an early histological stage (stage i, 4, and stage ii, 6, 3.4% +/- 0.4%) of primary biliary cirrhosis was 17 times that for 6 control subjects (0.2% +/- 0.1%, p less than 0.001), and was significantly higher than that for 19 female patients with chronic aggressive hepatitis (0.9% +/- 0.2%, p less than 0.001), 14 compensated cirrhotic patients of viral origin (all female, 1.1% +/- 0.3%, p less than 0.01), and 5 patients with stage iii primary biliary cirrhosis (0.5% +/- 0.1%, p less than 0.001). the mean (+/- se) liver volume in the early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis (1225 +/- 40 cm3) was about 1.5 times that in control subjects (835 +/- 42 cm3, p less than 0.001). these results suggest that liver volume has already become large in the early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis perhaps because of markedly increased dna synthesis in hepatocytes.
fine surface structure of an intraspinal neurenteric cyst: a scanning and transmission electron microscopy study. the case of an 11-year-old boy with an intraspinal neurenteric cyst, which recurred 8 years and 3 months after surgery, is presented. scanning and transmission electron microscopy of the cyst epithelium revealed marked resemblance to that of the respiratory tract, despite the presence of numerous goblet cells mimicking intestine on light microscopy study. detailed ultrastructural findings are described.
acid aspiration prophylaxis in 288 obstetric anaesthetic departments in the united kingdom. the choice of drugs for acid aspiration prophylaxis in 288 obstetric anaesthetic departments in the united kingdom was determined by questionnaire. the results are compared with a similar survey of anaesthetic departments 5 years ago. the prescription of sodium citrate and the h2 receptor antagonist ranitidine has superseded that of mist. magnesium trisilicate.
advances in the treatment of complex cerebrovascular disorders by interventional neurovascular techniques. treatment of complex cerebrovascular disorders, including intracranial aneurysms, carotid cavernous sinus fistulas, vertebral fistulas, arteriovenous malformations, atherosclerosis of brachiocephalic vessels, and arterial vasospasm, is being performed in selected cases by interventional neurovascular techniques. recent advances in microballoon technology, permanent solidifying polymers, newer embolic agents, high-resolution digital subtraction angiography with road-mapping technique, and steerable micro-guide wires and catheters have greatly improved access in the distal intracranial circulation and markedly reduced the morbidity associated with these procedures. interventional neuroradiology is emerging as an important adjunct to neurosurgery for selected cerebrovascular disorders.
transfer function of sound transmission in subglottal human respiratory system at low frequencies. the amplitude of sound transmission from the mouth to a site overlying the extrathoracic trachea and two sites on the posterior chest wall was measured in eight healthy adult male subjects at resting lung volume over the 100- to 600-hz frequency range. the ratios of the estimated magnitude spectra of transmission of each of the chest wall sites to the tracheal site were determined, with the resulting spectra representing effective transfer functions of transmission in the subglottal system. for the group, the transfer functions exhibited a single peak, which occurred at 143 +/- 13 hz (mean +/- sd) with a quality factor (q) of 2.0 +/- 0.2 for the upper chest wall site and at 129 +/- 6 hz with a q of 2.2 +/- 0.4 for the lower site. the trend of decreasing spectral energy with increasing frequency was indicated by roll-offs of -10 +/- 4 and -17 +/- 5 db/octave from 300 to 600 hz at the two sites, respectively. the fundamental radial mode of a model thoracic cavity, which is a large rigid cylinder filled with lossless lung tissue, provides a good estimate of the observed low-frequency resonance. this agreement suggests that thoracic cavity resonances may have particularly important effects on sound transmission at frequencies below approximately 250 hz, where the magnitude of parenchymal attenuation appears to be small.
results of repeat percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for pulmonary valvar restenosis. follow-up cardiac catheterization studies were used to evaluate 105 patients who had undergone percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. fifteen of those patients who had peak systolic pulmonary valve gradients greater than = 40 mm hg at follow-up underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty. for the initial balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty, the mean ratio of the balloon diameter to pulmonary valve annulus diameter was 0.98 +/- 0.2; at repeat valvuloplasty the mean was 1.19 +/- 0.12. the immediate post-repeat balloon valvuloplasty results showed a reduction in the peak systolic gradient from a mean of 70.2 +/- 17.8 to 29.1 +/- 19.0 mm hg (p less than 0.001). this reduction in the gradient was maintained at a mean of 14.3 +/- 5.0 mm hg in 8 of the 10 patients who underwent further follow-up studies. we conclude that successful repeat balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty with the use of larger sized balloons is feasible in patients who have restenosis after the initial percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty--including partial but not complete dysplasia of the pulmonary valve.
double-blind comparison of doxazosin and enalapril in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension. the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin and enalapril were compared in the general practice setting (n = 54). both agents produced comparable, statistically significant (p less than 0.05) reductions in mean blood pressure with no clinically relevant changes in heart rate. side effects in the two groups were mild or moderate and disappeared or were tolerated with continued treatment. doxazosin, in contrast to enalapril, produced a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in the total serum cholesterol concentration, a reduction in the level of triglycerides, and a favorable increase in the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio. the reduction in calculated coronary heart disease risk produced by doxazosin (-27.58%) was highly significant (p less than 0.0002) and greater than that produced by enalapril (-18.49% p less than 0.02).
bilateral reexpansion pulmonary edema following unilateral pleurocentesis. acute ipsilateral pulmonary edema following reexpansion of the lung after pleurocentesis or pneumothorax is a well described entity. we report the unusual occurrence of bilateral pulmonary edema following unilateral pleurocentesis in a young male without heart disease. various hypotheses regarding the mechanism of reexpansion pulmonary edema include increased capillary permeability due to hypoxic injury, decreased surfactant production, altered pulmonary perfusion and mechanical stretching of membranes. this case suggests that forces leading to ipsilateral reexpansion pulmonary edema also affect the contralateral lung.
payment mechanism and patterns of use of medical services: the example of hypertension. this study explores the relationship between the use of medical services by hypertensive patients and mechanisms for payment within a single primary care practice. three payment mechanisms were explored: public assistance, a capitated health maintenance organization (hmo), and fee-for-service. patterns were examined across reimbursement type for the following variables: age, sex, visit reason, number of visits, medications, tests ordered, referrals made, and recommendations for follow-up visits. illness severity was controlled in two ways: (1) by the study being focused on one diagnosis--mild to moderate hypertension, and (2) by concurrent chronic illnesses being enumerated and included in the analysis. medical visits to the physician were examined over a 2-year period for 25 to 30 patients randomly sampled from each of the three payment mechanisms. statistically significant differences were found for patient behaviors (total number of patient visits) and physician behaviors (number of medications and recommendations for revisits). the highest visit frequency was found for those on public assistance, followed closely by those covered by an hmo, and more distantly by those choosing fee-for-service. in a climate of cost consciousness, further study is needed to explore the impact of reimbursement mechanisms on the use of health care services.
effects of neuro-developmental treatment and orthoses on knee flexion during gait: a single-subject design. the interactive effects of neuro-developmental treatment and inhibitive ankle-height orthoses on gait were examined via a single-subject research design. knee flexion during gait at initial contact, mid-stance, heel-off, and mid-swing were measured in a 2-year-old girl with diplegia by use of a goniometer and freeze-frame videography. during the treatment and treatment/orthoses phases, a decrease in excessive knee flexion was noted. changes in trend over time were greater in the 3-week treatment phase than in the 3-week treatment/orthoses phase. changes in level at the initiation of the treatment/orthoses phase were greater than in the treatment phase. the described neuro-developmental treatment activities were conducted correctly 92% of the time according to an independent observer. the interrater reliability of goniometric data measured by videography was .93 using intraclass correlation coefficients. the results of this study suggest that both methods of treatment can be used to decrease excessive knee flexion during gait in a child with diplegia.
indications and results of relaxing retinotomy. the authors report their results of a consecutive series of 40 eyes undergoing relaxing retinotomy during vitrectomy to achieve retinal reattachment for the following indications: proliferative vitreoretinopathy (pvr), 21 eyes (52%); trauma, 10 eyes (25%); diabetic retinopathy, 6 eyes (15%); and expulsive choroidal hemorrhage, 3 eyes (8%). thirty eyes (75%) had undergone previous vitreoretinal procedures. extended tamponade was achieved in all cases with either silicone oil (27 eyes, 68%) or long-acting gas (13 eyes, 32%). retinotomy size ranged from 45 degrees to 360 degrees. intraoperative retinal attachment was possible in all eyes with 33 (83%) achieving total or subtotal retinal attachment including the macula for 5 months or more. twenty-seven eyes (68%) achieved 3/200 visual acuity or better and 10 (37%) achieved 20/400 or better. thirteen eyes (32%) failed to achieve 3/200 visual acuity secondary to recurrent detachment (18%), corneal decompensation (8%), macular dysfunction (5%), and glaucoma (3%).
increased septic complications with three-drug sequential immunosuppression for cadaver renal transplants. in 152 renal transplant recipients, the results of immunosuppression with three-drug sequential (minnesota antilymphocyte globulin, prednisone, azathioprine, and cyclosporine) immunosuppression (n = 107) were compared with those of a two-drug sequential protocol (minnesota antilymphocyte globulin, prednisone, and cyclosporine) that excluded azathioprine (n = 45). the study groups were comparable by age, sex, etiology of renal failure, incidence of diabetes, and degree of hla matching. patient survival at 1 year was not significantly different in the two groups (two drug, 93% versus three drug, 86%; p = 0.19). one-year graft survival was superior in the two-drug group (two drug, 93% versus three drug, 75%; p = 0.02). analysis of primary transplants only (n = 116) yielded the same results. during the first year, the serum creatinine level remained stable in both groups. as expected, the three-drug therapy group had significantly more bacterial and viral infections. for low-risk primary cadaveric renal transplants, two-drug sequential immunosuppression is superior.
effects of salt, race, and hypertension on reactivity to stressors. blood pressure and heart rate reactivity to a psychological stressor and to a cold pressor test were examined in a group of 51 normotensive and 37 unmedicated hypertensive men. all were studied twice, once while the participants were maintained on a moderately high salt (200 meq sodium/day) diet and once while the participants were maintained on an extremely low salt (10 meq sodium/day) diet. dietary salt had no effect on blood pressure or heart rate responses to the two stressors. the systolic and diastolic responses of the white participants to the psychological stressor were greater than those of the black participants (both p less than 0.05); however, there was no difference between blacks and whites in reactivity to the cold pressor challenge. as compared with the normotensive group, the hypertensive group reacted to the psychological stressor with increased responses in systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate (all p less than 0.05). the hypertensive group also hyperresponded in terms of the systolic pressure response to the cold pressor task (p less than 0.05). plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine responses were not significantly different across the two diets, races, or diagnoses.
percutaneous cholangioscopic or transpapillary insertion of self-expanding biliary metal stents. fifty-two self-expanding metal stents were implanted in 39 patients with malignant (35 patients) or benign (4 patients) biliary stenoses. the stents were inserted and properly released by means of a 7 or 9 french gauge delivery catheter via the percutaneous (20 patients) or transpapillary (19 patients) route. in all cases the endoprostheses expanded to a diameter of 7 to 10 mm and achieved complete biliary tract drainage. jaundice disappeared in 36 of the 39 patients. no early complication was observed. after a median follow-up of 121 days (range, 30 to 422 days), 19 of 36 patients are still alive and 17 died of non-procedure-related causes. biliary re-obstruction occurred in five patients due to tumor overgrowth above or below the prosthesis (four patients) or bile encrustation (one patient). in patients with malignant stenoses, the probability of stent patency is 78% after 200 days. we conclude that large-bore metal stents are safe, effective, and provide better long-term patency than conventional endoprostheses.
incisional parapubic hernias. a parapubic hernia, distinct from other lower abdominal wall hernias, is identified as a particular type of incisional hernia. this hernia results from the disruption of the musculotendinous elements of the abdominal wall as they insert into the pubis. this disruption is brought about by either the destruction of these musculotendinous tissues at their lower end or the resection of portions of the pubic bone as is sometimes done in suprapubic radical prostatectomies for easier access to the prostate. seven cases have been identified and reported. men and women were seen to make up a clinical picture that is suggestive of the diagnosis, namely, multiple previous operations through the lower abdominal wall, procedures of a gynecologic or urologic nature, a herniation that mimics an incisional or inguinal hernia, and a defect that cannot possibly be corrected without the use of a prosthesis. when the diagnosis is accurately established, the polypropylene mesh is inserted in the preperitoneal space and anchored laterally to the ligaments of cooper and in between to the arcuate pubic ligament and the periosteum of the posterior aspect of the pubis. excellent results have been obtained, and the success must be ascribed to the recognition of the parapubic hernia as a distinct entity.
diagnostic imaging and surgical treatment of dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum. we describe the diagnostic procedures and surgical approaches employed in 5 patients with dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum. magnetic resonance imaging accurately described the existence and longitudinal extension of the intraspinal component of the tumor and assisted in choosing the appropriate surgical approach. both the intrathoracic and intraspinal components of the tumor were resected at one time by a thoracic and neurosurgical team. we employed the grillo technique three times and a separate laminectomy and thoracotomy approach. magnetic resonance imaging proved the most useful diagnostic technique for suspected dumbbell mediastinal tumors. in our experience, the extended thoracotomy proposed by grillo and co-workers worked well for small tumors involving only one foramen in which the intraspinal extension was limited to 2 to 3 cm, and when no more than two laminectomies were required. on the other hand, thoracotomy and a longitudinal paravertebral incision are preferable for larger tumors (more than 4 cm) involving more than one foramen in which the intraspinal extension exceeds 2 to 3 cm, for tumors requiring multiple laminectomy, and when bony infiltration is present.
persistent segmental cutaneous anesthesia after a brown recluse spider bite. patients with brown recluse spider bites commonly suffer from pain, muscular aching, and a variety of local dysesthesias during the acute and resolution phases of toxin-induced injury. this is our first well-documented observation of persistent cutaneous anesthesia caused by a spider bite. the anesthetic area conformed to the distribution of a specific nerve, the transverse cervical cutaneous nerve. the identification of the spider as a brown recluse and the location of the bite over the nerve's usual pathway strongly suggest that the venom was responsible for this complication.
vasculitis as a paraneoplastic syndrome. report of 11 cases and review of the literature. in a study of 222 patients with vasculitis, we identified 11 who had an associated neoplasia. seven had hematological neoplasia and 4 had solid malignant tumors. in 4 patients vasculitis gave the first evidence of the neoplasia or of its recurrence. nine of our patients had cutaneous vasculitis. the other 2 had vasculitis involving the intestine and resulted in acute abdomens. these 2 patients needed prednisone treatment for the vasculitis. neoplasia should be considered in patients with vasculitis without an apparent cause.
treatment of metastatic melanoma with an autologous tumor-cell vaccine: clinical and immunologic results in 64 patients. we treated 64 patients with metastatic melanoma using a melanoma vaccine preceded by low-dose cyclophosphamide (cy), and monitored immunologic effects and antitumor activity. on day 0, the patients were given cy 300 mg/m2 intravenously. three days later, they were injected intradermally with vaccine consisting of 10 to 25 x 10(6) autologous, enzymatically dissociated, cryopreserved, irradiated (25 gy) tumor cells mixed with bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg). this treatment sequence was repeated every 28 days. of 40 assessable patients with measurable metastases, five had responses, four complete and one partial, with a median duration of 10 months (7 to 84+ months). in six additional patients, we observed an antitumor response that seems to be peculiar to this vaccine therapy: the regression of metastatic lesions that appeared after the immunotherapy was begun. delayed-type hypersensitivity (dth) to autologous, mechanically dissociated melanoma cells that had not been exposed to extraneous antigens, such as enzymes or fetal calf serum, increased significantly following immunotherapy (day 0 v day 49, p less than .001; day 0 v day 161, p less than .001; day 0 v day 217, p = .021). antitumor responses to the vaccine were strongly associated with dth, as indicated by three observations: (1) eight of 10 patients who exhibited tumor regression had positive dth, (2) in postsurgical adjuvant patients, there was a highly significant linear relationship (p less than .001) between the intensity of dth to autologous melanoma cells and the time to recurrence of tumor, and (3) nine patients who developed dth to the autologous melanoma cells in their original vaccine developed new metastases that failed to elicit dth or elicited a much smaller response. in three cases, we were able to excise regressing tumors for histologic examination; such tumors were characterized by an intense infiltration of lymphocytes. this demonstration that an immune response to melanoma-associated antigens can be elicited in cancer-bearing patients provides some basis for optimism about the prospects for developing active immunotherapy that has practical therapeutic value.
major clinical diagnoses found among patients with raynaud phenomenon from the general population. this study of 62 individuals with raynaud phenomenon (rp) drawn from the general population of south carolina shows a profile of associated diseases that is different from the one reported from hospital based studies. we found that connective tissue diseases affect a much smaller fraction of patients with rp than previously reported. compared to rp negative controls, our rp positive group was found to suffer more frequently from a variety of diseases, both rp related and not rp related.
pedunculated soft-tissue mass on the alveolar gingiva [clinical conference] a case of peripheral ameloblastoma, a rare intraoral neoplasm, has been presented. the lesion appears most commonly as a mass on the mandibular lingual gingiva of patients in their fifth and sixth decades of life. the peripheral ameloblastoma does not share the aggressive nature of the intraosseous variant. the lesion has been overtreated in the past and warrants only a local supraperiosteal excision.
stunned myocardium and myocardial collagen damage: differential effects of single and repeated occlusions. it has been suggested that collagen loss and damage is responsible for the dysfunction seen in stunned myocardium. to test this hypothesis we compared collagen in canine hearts stunned by repeated occlusion with collagen in hearts stunned by a single occlusion. regional contractile function was equally depressed in both groups: segment shortening at 1 hour after reperfusion averaged 37% +/- 9% versus 32% +/- 9% of preocclusion values in repeated and single occlusion models, respectively. midmyocardial collagen content was not different in either single occlusion (10.5% +/- 0.4%) or repeated occlusion models (9.5% +/- 0.7%) when compared with nonischemic hearts (8.5 +/- 0.8%). collagen damage, which was revealed with polarized light microscopy, was seen in 5 of 6 dogs after repeated occlusion but was not apparent after a single occlusion. thus although both models of stunned myocardium produce similar dysfunction, there was no apparent collagen loss. furthermore, collagen damage was only seen after repeated occlusion. therefore it appears unlikely that collagen damage is a primary mechanism of stunned myocardium.
mechanism of antitumor activity of tumor necrosis factor alpha with hyperthermia in a tumor necrosis factor alpha-resistant tumor. cells from a radiation-induced fibrosarcoma (rif-1) are exceedingly resistant to tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) in vitro. we tested whether the addition of mild hyperthermia (42.5 degrees c, 30 minutes) could enhance tnf-alpha activity against rif-1 tumors growing in syngeneic hosts (c3h mice). tnf-alpha was administered intratumorally. tumor cell killing essentially was not measurable following tnf-alpha, hyperthermia, or a combination of the two. single-modality treatments also had no effect on tumor growth delay or on the x-ray dose (given 24 hours after the primary treatment) required to sterilize 50% of the tumors. the combination of tnf-alpha and hyperthermia, however, resulted in a marked increase in tumor doubling time and a highly significant reduction in the x-ray dose required to sterilize the tumors. syngeneic lymph nodal lymphocytes and blood leukocytes did not appear to mediate the action of tnf-alpha on rif-1 cells in vitro. necrosis and hemorrhage were the most prominent histopathological alterations in the treated tumors. electron microscopic studies 6 hours after therapy showed increased damage to capillary endothelial cells and accumulation of neutrophils in the capillaries of tumors treated with tnf-alpha with or without heat, suggesting that neutrophils may mediate the endothelial cell injury. these observations indicate a greater than additive tumoricidal effect of tnf-alpha with hyperthermia. furthermore, they support the concept that the interaction between the two agents damages the vasculature, compromising the microcirculation and ultimately causing ischemic tumor necrosis.
a prospective evaluation of the ao/asif universal femoral nail in the treatment of traumatic and reconstructive problems of the femur. beginning in october 1986, we prospectively evaluated the ao/asif universal femoral nail in the treatment of traumatic (89 nails) and reconstructive (11 nails) problems of the femur. for treatment of isolated femoral fractures, the mean time of patient positioning and nail insertion was 2.4 hours with a mean blood loss of 389 ml. seventy-eight per cent of the patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months. there were no infections, one case of nail failure, two cases of screw fracture, and three nonunions. sixteen nails have been uneventfully removed. the ao/asif femoral nail provides results comparable to other intramedullary interlocking devices.
an unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot. a case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of fallot. the focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery. subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation, and, with no further surgery, the child is well after two and a half years follow-up.
sympathetic drive and vascular damage in hypertension and atherosclerosis. current knowledge of the links between the sympathetic nervous system and vascular damage in hypertension and atherosclerosis is summarized. the main mechanisms leading to the structural changes of the arterial wall as a consequence of enhanced adrenergic drive are reported. hemodynamic mechanisms, including increase in pressure leading to changes in the arterioles and alteration of flow pattern with impact mainly in the large arteries, respectively, account for the typical target organ damage observed in hypertension and is involved in the development of atherosclerotic lesions. regarding the direct effect of catecholamines, the atherogenic effects of epinephrine and norepinephrine in the absence of changes in blood pressure and cholesterol levels have been demonstrated in vivo in monkeys and rabbits. in rats, catecholamine administration induces polyploidization of aortic smooth muscle cells in vivo and in vitro. regarding the effects of lipid metabolism, adrenergic stimulation may induce free fatty acid transformation into triglycerides with secondary increase in very low density lipoprotein plasma levels and decrease of very low density lipoprotein transformation into high density lipoprotein through circulating lipoprotein lipase inhibition. catecholamines may also increase cholesterol levels of the arterial wall, probably by triggering the acyl-cholesterol-acyl-transferase activity. finally, indirect evidence of the pathogenetic role played by the sympathetic system in the development of vascular disease derives from the results of experiments showing that sympatholytic agents are capable of reducing both medial hypertrophy and atherogenesis. beta-blockers, alpha- and beta-blockers, and centrally acting sympatholytic agents not only ameliorate hemodynamics but also appear to inhibit the direct effects of catecholamines on the arterial wall.
anton's syndrome in a patient with posttraumatic optic neuropathy and bifrontal contusions. we describe a patient who manifested anton's syndrome after sustaining head trauma that resulted in optic nerve damage and bifrontal contusions. denial of monocular blindness, generalized anosognosia, and confabulation were prominent neurobehavioral features. anton's syndrome is most commonly encountered in patients with bilateral occipital cortex lesions. patients previously described who demonstrated anton's syndrome secondary to a peripheral lesion have had an associated delirium or profound dementia. our case demonstrates that anton's syndrome may occur in association with blindness from a peripheral lesion, even in the absence of a delirium or significant dementia. we suggest that the bifrontal dysfunction may have been a critical factor in the production of anton's syndrome. implications for the role of frontal lobe dysfunction in the genesis of anosognosia and confabulation are discussed.
intermittent pneumatic compression to prevent proximal deep venous thrombosis during and after total hip replacement. a prospective, randomized study of compression alone, compression and aspirin, and compression and low-dose warfarin. a prospective, randomized study of the effectiveness of intraoperative and postoperative use of intermittent pneumatic compression, alone or in combination with oral administration of either aspirin or low-dose warfarin, was done of a consecutive series of patients who had a total hip replacement and were more than thirty-nine years old. all patients began walking by the third postoperative day. one hundred and ninety-six patients who had 217 total hip arthroplasties were included. twenty-eight per cent of the procedures were revisions of a previous total hip replacement or of an endoprosthesis, and the remainder were primary arthroplasties. patients were randomized as to the type of prophylaxis that they received: intermittent pneumatic compression alone, seventy-six hips; intermittent pneumatic compression and aspirin, seventy-two hips; or intermittent pneumatic compression and low-dose warfarin, sixty-nine hips. before discharge from the hospital, and at an average of seven days after the operation, all patients were evaluated for the presence of proximal deep-vein thrombosis with either venography on the side of the operation or with bilateral venous ultrasonography. the relative frequency with which thrombosis occurred in a proximal vein was not significantly different in the three groups; the over-all relative frequency was 10 per cent. intermittent compression during and after the operation effectively reduces the rate of proximal-vein thrombosis after total hip replacement. with the number of patients in our study, the effectiveness of this technique could not be shown to be augmented by oral administration of either aspirin or low-dose warfarin.
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in infantile cholestasis. the difficulty of distinguishing surgically correctable causes of conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia in infants from other causes means that some infants may undergo laparotomy and intraoperative cholangiography unnecessarily, and others may be referred for surgery too late. in an attempt to improve the diagnostic accuracy in infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia when standard methods produced equivocal results, we have been using prototype paediatric duodenoscopes (pjf 7.5 and xpjf 8.0; olympus) to perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp). from 159 infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia, 11 were referred for ercp, which was performed in nine. in four in whom bile ducts were definitely visualised laparotomy was avoided. operative cholangiography confirmed patent bile ducts in one in whom visualisation had been uncertain. three of four in whom bile ducts were not seen had extrahepatic biliary atresia. visible bile drainage in the fourth excluded atresia. no major complications ensued but there was radiological evidence of gall bladder perforation in one (common hepatic duct block) and overinflation with air was a problem until finer cannulae (wilson-cook) were introduced. in appropriately selected patients with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia, ercp with paediatric duodenoscopes in experienced hands may provide useful diagnostic information.
physical examination and echo doppler study in the assessment of femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization. femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization have been well recognized. the development of an inguinal mass in these patients can represent a simple hematoma, a pseudoaneurysm, or an arteriovenous fistula. the utility of the physical examination in diagnosing these complications was assessed by using the echo doppler study for comparison. this study shows that any single clinical sign should not be used in isolation, but a constellation of physical findings can suggest the correct diagnosis.
immunoassay of p2 protein in cerebrospinal fluid in neurological disorders. cerebrospinal fluid samples were obtained at lumbar puncture from 53 patients with a wide variety of neurological disorders. cerebrospinal fluid samples were tested for the presence of p2 protein, a constituent of myelin, with an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay technique using a specific polyclonal antibody. high concentrations of p2 in the cerebrospinal fluid paralleled a raised igg index (clearance ratio), the presence of oligoclonal bands, as well as raised white cell counts or depressed albumin:igg ratios. twenty one patients had been diagnosed as having definite or probable multiple sclerosis and the remaining 32 had other conditions. of the 13 patients with high positive p2, 12 (92%) were in the multiple sclerosis category; of the 40 patients with low (12) or undetectable (28) p2 concentrations, only nine (23%) were diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis. in this patient population the presence of high immunoreactive p2 concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid was closely associated with evidence of intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis and with the clinical diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. on this basis it is suggested that immunoassay of p2 concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid may be of potential value in the investigation of patients with demyelinating disorders.
pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. differential diagnostic considerations. malakoplakia is an unusual inflammatory condition characterized histopathologically by accumulations of benign macrophages, or von hansemann's cells, that are associated with diagnostic intracellular and extracellular calcospherites, termed michaelis-gutmann bodies. currently believed to represent an acquired defect of macrophage digestion, malakoplakia most commonly occurs in the urinary tract and is associated with a variety of infectious agents, notably gram-negative bacilli. we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with a cavitating lingular mass. a transbronchial biopsy specimen revealed pulmonary malakoplakia, the seventh reported case of this condition and the second reported occurrence of pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. microbiological cultures were positive for rhodococcus equi. the significance of this finding, and the differential diagnosis of intra-alveolar histiocytic proliferations in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, is discussed.
a clinical pilot study combining surgery with intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy to prevent the local recurrence of rectal cancer. intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy (iophc) with mitomycin c (mmc) was prescribed for 14 patients with resectable advanced rectal cancer in an attempt to prevent a postoperative local recurrence. immediately after rectal amputation and extended lymphadenectomy, iophc was performed using physiologic saline containing 40 micrograms/ml of mmc at 45.5 +/- 0.6 c for 90 minutes, with an apparatus devised for iophc. at the end of iophc, the esophageal temperature was 37.2 +/- 0.8 c and cooling was not required. antitumor efficacy and complications in the iophc group were compared with findings in 12 rectal cancer patients who underwent surgery only within the same period of time. operation time was not prolonged with iophc treatment. in cytologic examinations of the pelvic lavage just before iophc treatment, viable cancer cells were detected in 6 of the 14 patients but were never detected in the postoperative exudate drained from the pelvic cavity. of the 12 patients in the control group, 2 had a local recurrence, while in the iophc group there was no local recurrence for 16.9 +/- 9.7 months at this writing. postoperative complications did not differ between the groups. this iophc treatment is a favorable method in eradicating cancer cells for postoperative local recurrence of rectal cancer.
expressional potency of mrnas encoding receptors and voltage-activated channels in the postmortem rat brain. the stability and integrity of mrnas encoding neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels in the postmortem rat brain was investigated by isolating poly(a)+ mrna, injecting it into xenopus oocytes, and then examining the expression of functional neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels in the oocyte membrane by electrophysiological recording. this approach was also used to assess the stability of mrnas in brains that were incubated in oxygenated mammalian ringer's solution for various lengths of time and from brains that were freshly frozen and then thawed at room temperature. oocytes injected with mrna from up to 21-hr postmortem brains gave large agonist- and voltage-activated responses, indicating that mrnas encoding neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels are relatively stable in postmortem brain tissue. in contrast, oocytes injected with mrna from brains incubated in ringer's solution exhibited smaller responses, and oocytes injected with mrna from tissue that was frozen and then thawed displayed very small or undetectable responses. northern blot analysis using a nucleic acid probe for rat brain na(+)-channel mrna indicated that the size of the na+ currents in injected oocytes reflected the levels of mrna for na+ channels in the different mrna preparations. thus, the expressional potency of mrnas encoding neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels is quite stable in postmortem brains in situ, but it is reduced if the brains are kept in oxygenated saline, and freezing and thawing of tissue results in rapid degeneration of mrna.
cell cycling in bladder carcinoma determined by monoclonal antibody ki67. current methods of predicting prognosis in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder fail to provide consistently reliable information about future tumour behaviour. the monoclonal antibody ki67 recognises an antigen present in actively dividing cells and ki67 reactivity has been shown to correlate with conventional prognostic indicators in several tumours. in this study, ki67 antibody was used to determine the proportions of cells undergoing active division in 26 transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder. the proportion of cells stained in muscle invasive tumours (12.3 +/- 5.4%) was significantly greater than in superficial tumours (4.3 +/- 1.9%) and poorly differentiated tumours showed significantly greater proportions of cells staining compared with well or moderately well differentiated tumours. these results show that ki67 reactivity correlates with high tumour stage and poor differentiation. ki67 staining provides an easy method of determining tumour cell turnover that might provide additional prognostic information.
expression of aminopeptidase n (cd13) in mesenchymal tumors. for a long time, cd13 molecules have been considered to be restricted to myeloid cells and related neoplasms. meanwhile, however, expression of cd13 has also been detected in some hepatocellular, gallbladder, renal, and lung carcinomas, and even in some fibrosarcomas and malignant melanomas. in this study, expression of cd13 antigen was immunohistochemically examined in non-neoplastic mesenchymal cells, along with 33 benign and 83 malignant mesenchymal tumors (met) using cd13 monoclonal antibodies (mab) my7, u71, wm-15, and mou48. in non-neoplastic mesenchymal cells, expression of cd13 was restricted to perivascular fibrocytes/blasts, tissue histiocytes, osteoclasts, and to the perineurium of peripheral nerve trunks. under neoplastic conditions, cd13 was detectable in some tumors of smooth muscle, fibrous, fibrohistiocytic, synovial, osteogenic, and peripheral nerve sheath origin, and even in some tumors of adipose tissue. tumors of striated muscle origin, of autonomic ganglia, and of cartilage-forming tissues were cd13-negative throughout. thus in most but not all tumors studied the pattern of expression of cd13 mirrors the situation found in their cells of origin. these findings enrich the data on expression of leukocyte differentiation antigens in extra-hematopoietic tissues. expression of cd13, which meanwhile is known to be identical to aminopeptidase n, an important peptide-cleaving enzyme, in only some met might reflect a special functional state of these neoplasms.
role of systemic therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. increasing evidence supports the investigation of chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). randomized studies in patients with stage iv disease have shown increased survival in chemotherapy-treated patients compared to best supportive care and indicate the ability of chemotherapy to alter the natural history of this disease. randomized studies involving adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy have also shown encouraging results. these studies and results of recent pilot studies utilizing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and concomitant chemoradiotherapy indicate a potential benefit from the use of chemotherapy in patients with nsclc and call for its continued intensive investigation in clinical trials.
captopril-stimulated renal vein renin in hypertensive patients with or without renal artery stenosis. to examine the efficacy and usefulness of captopril-enhanced renal vein renin (rvr) measurements in detecting the functional significance of renal artery stenosis found in hypertensives, we compared these values in 22 patients with arteriographically documented renovascular hypertension due to unilateral (urvh: 14 patients) or bilateral renal artery stenosis (brvh: 8 patients) and 12 patients with high renin essential hypertension (eht). before captopril administration, rvr ratio was less than 1.5 in 8 patients (36.4%) with renovascular hypertension and all patients (100%) with eht. captopril enhanced the lateralization of renal vein renin in renovascular hypertension; the postcaptopril rvr ratio was greater than 2.0 in 18 patients (81.8%) and greater than 1.5 in all the patients (100%). on the other hand, rvr ratio remained unchanged in most patients with eht. there was no significant difference in the postcaptopril rvr ratios between urvh and brvh. however, the postcaptopril rvr ratio was higher in atherosclerosis (10 patients) than in fibromuscular dysplasia (11 patients) (p less than .05). captopril also elucidated contralateral renin suppression as expressed by a contralateral/peripheral renin ratio of less than 1.0, which was associated with a favorable outcome of unilateral surgical intervention. captopril-stimulated rvr indices were valuable in detecting the functionally significant renal artery stenosis and predicting surgical curability in renovascular hypertension.
effects of anxiety on family members of patients with cardiac disease learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation. the effects of anxiety on learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) by family members of patients with cardiac disease was examined. family members of hospitalized patients (n = 17), family members of nonhospitalized patients (n = 12), and a control group (n = 21) all took one of nine heart saver programs in which cpr was taught and performance evaluated. subjects took the state anxiety inventory three times: immediately before the program, immediately after the performance test, and 2 months after completion of the program. family members of hospitalized patients had significantly higher before-program anxiety scores than the other groups. this difference was not present immediately after the program or 2 months later. family members of hospitalized patients showed a significant decline in anxiety over the three testing times. these outcomes support the benefit of teaching cpr to this group.
risks factors for cerebral infarction in good-grade patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery: a prospective study. a prospective series of 265 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of grades i to iii (hunt and hess classification) upon admission were evaluated as to neurological outcome and computerized tomography (ct) findings 1 to 3 years (mean 1.4 years) after the sah and surgery. a total of 73 patients underwent acute surgery (within 72 hours after the bleed: days 0 to 3), 86 were operated on subacutely (between days 4 and 7), and 91 had late surgery (on day 8 or later). fifteen patients died before surgery was undertaken and another 20 patients died during the follow-up period. a total of 104 patients received nimodipine and the rest of the patients received either placebo (109 patients) or no medication (52 patients). a logistical regression analysis revealed the following prognostic factors for cerebral infarction, in order of importance: the amount of blood on the primary ct scan; postoperative angiographic vasospasm; the timing of the operation; and a history of hypertension. the use of nimodipine was associated with a significant reduction of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in patients who received intermediate or late surgery. in patients who underwent acute surgery no significant difference between the incidence of cerebral infarcts was observed.
experience with surgical treatment of takayasu's disease. we reviewed 28 patients with takayasu's disease to determine the incidence of stroke and its relationship to the involvement of the thoracic aortic arch and its branches. we describe surgical experiences with 10 of the 28 patients who required 21 vascular surgical procedures for critical thoracic aortic arch arterial stenoses, upper and lower extremity ischemia, and renal artery stenoses. four of the 28 patients initially had a stroke caused by occlusion of one or more thoracic aortic arch arteries. six of the 10 patients underwent 7 bypass procedures for critical thoracic arch stenoses. all have remained free of stroke for 5 or more years. four patients had five anastomotic stenoses or graft occlusions in late follow-up; the development of these stenoses did not relate to disease activity at the time of the operative procedure. all bypass grafts originating from the subclavian axillary artery developed anastomotic stenoses; no anastomotic stenoses occurred in bypass grafts originating from the ascending aorta. in contrast to other reports, no anastomotic false aneurysms occurred. occlusions of major aortic arch arteries in takayasu's disease cause stroke. bypass of critically stenoses aortic arch arteries protects against stroke and is best performed with grafts originating from the ascending aorta. anastomotic stenoses but not anastomotic aneurysms are common. this study suggests that aggressive surgical treatment can be performed with good results.
mechanisms of gallstone formation in women. effects of exogenous estrogen (premarin) and dietary cholesterol on hepatic lipid metabolism. our aim was to define mechanisms whereby conjugated estrogens (premarin, exogenous estrogen; ayerst laboratories, new york) increase the risk of developing cholesterol gallstones and to determine the role, if any, of dietary cholesterol. we studied gallbladder motor function, biliary lipid composition and secretion, cholesterol absorption, cholesterol synthesis and esterification by peripheral blood mononuclear cells, the clearance of chylomicron remnants, and bile acid kinetics in 29 anovulatory women. 13 were studied on both a low (443 +/- 119 mumol/d) and high (2,021 +/- 262 mumol/d) cholesterol diet. premarin increased the lithogenic index of bile (p less than 0.05), increased biliary cholesterol secretion (p less than 0.005), lowered chenodeoxycholate (cdca) pool (p less than 0.001) and synthesis (p less than 0.05), altered biliary bile acid composition [( ca + dca]/cdca increases, p less than 0.005), stimulated cholesterol esterification (p less than 0.03), and enhanced the clearance of chylomicron remnants (p = 0.07). increases in dietary cholesterol stimulated the biliary secretion of cholesterol (p = 0.07), bile acid (p less than 0.05), phospholipid (p = 0.07), and as a result, did not alter lithogenic index. the reduction in cdca pool and synthesis by premarin was reversed by increasing dietary cholesterol. off premarin, only 24% of the increase in cholesterol entering the body in the diet was recovered as biliary cholesterol or newly synthesized bile acid. on premarin, 68% of this increase in cholesterol was recovered as these biliary lipids. we conclude that premarin increases biliary cholesterol by enhancing hepatic lipoprotein uptake and inhibiting bile acid synthesis. these actions of premarin divert dietary cholesterol into bile.
anaplastic carcinoma presenting with cervical lymphadenopathy. we describe 50 patients with anaplastic carcinoma presenting with a mass in the neck. the diagnosis of anaplastic carcinoma was confirmed by immunocytochemistry to exclude very poorly differentiated squamous carcinomas, amelanotic melanoma, and non-hodgkin's lymphoma. the primary site was established immediately in 26 patients (25 in the head and neck; 1 in the lung); a further 4 had radiological evidence of a primary tumour in the lung. the primary site was established later in 1 patient, in the ethmoid sinuses. in 20 patients the primary site was never established. the commonest primary site was the nasopharynx. the basic treatment policy was radiotherapy, although 20% of patients with a known primary tumour, and 50% of those without, were untreated. the 2-year survival was about 30% in both groups, and did not differ significantly. prognostic factors for survival were age, performance status, and t status of the primary tumour. sex, node status, node level, and laterality of nodes, were not.
the south karelia air pollution study. the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds from pulp mills on respiratory and other symptoms. the paper mills in south karelia, the southeast part of finland, are responsible for releasing a substantial amount of malodorous sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide (h2s), methyl mercaptan (ch3sh), and methyl sulfides [(ch3)2s and (ch3)2s2], into ambient air. in the most polluted residential area the annual mean concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan are estimated to be 8 and 2 to 5 micrograms/m3 and the highest daily average concentration 100 and 50 micrograms/m3. the annual mean and highest daily concentrations of sulfur dioxide (so2) are very low. we studied the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds on eye, nasal and respiratory symptoms, and headache in adults. a cross-sectional self-administered questionnaire was distributed in february 1987 and responded to by 488 adults living in a severely (n = 198), a moderately (n = 204), and a nonpolluted community (n = 86). this included questions about occurrence of the symptoms of interest during the previous 4 wk and 12 months and individual, behavioral, and other environmental determinants of the symptoms. the response rate was 83%. the odds ratios (or) for symptoms experienced often or constantly in severely versus nonpolluted and moderately versus nonpolluted communities were estimated in logistic regression analysis controlling potential confounders. the odds ratios for eye (moderate exposure or 11.70, cl95% 2.33 to 58.65; severe exposure or 11.78, cl95% 2.35 to 59.09) and nasal symptoms (or 2.01, cl95% 0.97 to 4.15; or 2.19, cl95% 1.06 to 4.55) and cough (or 1.89, cl95% 0.61 to 5.86; or 3.06, cl95% 1.02 to 9.29) during the previous 12 months were increased, with a dose-response pattern.
systems used to study the nature of the leukemic cell and predict treatment outcome in patients with myeloproliferative disorders. cell culture techniques have been used to study normal and leukemic hematopoiesis. investigations provided data on the nature of the clonogenic leukemic cell, its patterns of in vitro growth, role of stimulating factors, and effects of chemotherapeutic agents. assay systems developed to study leukemic progenitor cells or self-renewal capacity have been useful clinically as predictive indicators of success of remission-induction therapy and have allowed testing of drug sensitivity in vitro. alternative approaches using short- and long-term suspension cultures have provided systems to evaluate leukemic cells, including nonclonogenic, biochemical, and kinetic events. in vitro systems have been introduced to measure cell cycle events accurately and to identify metabolic mechanisms of drug resistance. the information provided by all of these systems has allowed a more comprehensive and multifocal characterization of the nature of the leukemic process and has better directed our approach to treatment.
complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma: colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis. postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the eea-stapler were evaluated. in all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma. in 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level (above the anal verge: colorectal anastomosis) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level (coloanal anastomosis). there was no perioperative mortality. the only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis. in the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks, 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence, ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 (10.4%) patients. we conclude that for rectal tumors the eea-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases. stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various (early and late) complications. nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort, many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma.
the greenfield filter as the primary means of therapy in venous thromboembolic disease. during a five year period at akron city hospital, 165 greenfield filters were placed in 165 patients. of this group, 78 patients were available for long term analysis, and of these, 42 did not receive anticoagulation treatment for venous thromboembolic diseases, either acutely or on an outpatient basis. an analysis of the outcome for these 42 patients who had the greenfield filter only as the primary mode of therapy for the disease included chart review and asking each person a standard set of questions. leg swelling was the most common complaint, occurring in 33 per cent of patients. venous stasis ulceration occurred in two patients and recurrent deep venous thrombosis occurred in one patient. when compared with a historical control group with venous thromboembolic disease that was treated with anticoagulation alone, the incidence of these sequelae in greenfield-treated patients was not significantly different. finally, in this review, the greenfield filter is better than 95 per cent effective in the prevention of pulmonary embolism. this is no less effective than anticoagulation alone, the efficacy of which is 95 to 98 per cent. the placement of a greenfield filter is a safe procedure that can usually be done after a local anesthetic was administered to the patient with a complication rate of less than 10 per cent. unfortunately, major complications of anticoagulation (usually hemorrhage) are relatively common at a rate of 2 to 15 per cent, and occur more frequently in the older population. it is for reasons of safety of therapy and of an equal or better efficacy that the greenfield filter is recommended in a broader range of clinical circumstances. in particular, it is concluded that the greenfield filter should be used as a primary means of therapy in venous thromboembolic disease, particularly in those patients who are more than 65 years of age, when the risks of anticoagulation are most threatening.
intralaryngotracheal thyroid. a case of intralaryngotracheal thyroid in a 57-year-old man is presented. the treatment modalities are considered and the previous literature is reviewed.
endoscopic appearance and significance of functional lymphangiectasia of the duodenal mucosa. intestinal lymphangiectasia is found in a wide variety of pathologic conditions. functional lymphangiectasia has not been well characterized. we report 20 patients followed for 9 to 55 months (mean 30 months) after incidental detection at endoscopy of lymphangiectasia. our study indicates that functional lymphangiectasia is not pathologic and does not warrant repeat endoscopy in the absence of other clinical indications.
elective diagnostic laparoscopy. laparoscopy developed as a science at the turn of the century, and many scientists assisted in the evolution of this technique. however, it was many years before the multiple trocar system was developed that allowed internal organs to be moved and biopsies to be obtained. this has led to the development of numerous indications for elective diagnostic laparoscopy. adequate preparation and attention to instrumentation ensure the safety of this operation. elective diagnostic laparoscopy is a useful adjunct to many other diagnostic modalities such as, for instance, the assessment of abdominal pain, abdominal masses, fever of unknown origin, and gastrointestinal bleeding. in many other circumstances, such as the assessment of oncology cases, this modality is superior to conventional radiology because biopsy specimens may be obtained. if the procedure is correctly performed, the diagnostic yield is extremely high and the morbidity and mortality are low. the role of this important technique should not be underestimated by today's practicing surgeon.
long-term outcome following anterior cerebral artery ligation for ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysms. the long-term prognosis (15 years) was determined for 17 patients who had undergone anterior cerebral artery (aca) ligation as the sole treatment for an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. the number of early and late rebleeds was lower than expected from previously ruptured aneurysms. late ischemia was not a major complication while late postoperative epilepsy occurred in 19% of survivors. in a review of previously published series, aca ligation appears to have significantly reduced the rates of both early and late rebleeding. this study helps to define the late results of "conservative" operations for ruptured aneurysms.
prolongation of ventricular refractoriness by class ia antiarrhythmic drugs in the prevention of ventricular tachycardia induction. the effects of class la antiarrhythmic drugs (procainamide, quinidine) on the right ventricular effective refractory period (verp) and intraventricular conduction time were assessed during serial invasive electrophysiologic studies for sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt). in 47 patients with remote myocardial infarction, sustained vt was inducible by up to two extrastimuli after the basic drive at one of two basic cycle lengths at the right ventricular apex. with oral drug administration, sustained vt was no longer inducible (group i) in 27 patients but remained inducible (group ii) in 20 with the same protocol. class la drugs prolonged the verp in both groups, but there was greater lengthening when drugs were effective (e.g., +32 +/- 14 msec in group i vs +12 +/- 19 msec in group ii; p less than 0.005, basic cycle length 600 to 700 msec). prolongation of the verp by greater than 30 msec had an 88% positive predictive value for prevention of sustained vt induction. in all except one patient in group i, drugs prolonged the verp such that the coupling intervals that had resulted in sustained vt induction under control conditions were no longer attainable. in contrast, conduction time through the ventricle (surface qrs duration) in sinus rhythm and during right ventricular pacing was prolonged similarly regardless of efficacy (e.g., +33 +/- 21 msec vs +27 +/- 27 msec at a cycle length of 400 msec). the presence of similar plasma levels of drug did not imply equivalent prolongation of the verp in the two groups. these results suggest that greater prolongation of the verp by oral procainamide or quinidine correlates with drug efficacy against vt induction and is a better predictor of drug effect than achievement of a "therapeutic plasma level.".
ganglioglioma: a clinical study with long-term follow-up. gangliogliomas are uncommon tumors of mixed neoplastic glial and neuronal elements. because of their low incidence, few large series exist that fully describe the clinical characteristics of patients afflicted with this tumor. we have reviewed the medical records of 20 patients at duke university medical center with histologically proven gangliogliomas. these patients typically presented within the first three decades of life and their most common presenting symptom was seizures. therapies included surgical resection, either partial or total, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy. long-term follow-up was achieved by chart review and by telephone interview. patients who underwent gross total resection alone seemed to fare the best when comparing all treatment groups, and we therefore recommend this as the main form of treatment.
familial paroxysmal kinesigenic ataxia and continuous myokymia. a large family with paroxysmal ataxia and continuous myokymic discharges is described. the disorder is of autosomal dominant inheritance. during attacks coordination of movements and balance are disturbed; often a postural tremor of the head and the hands and fine twitching in some of the facial and hand muscles are present. the attacks usually last a few minutes and may occur several times per day. they first appear in childhood and tend to abate after early adulthood. the attacks are frequently precipitated by kinesigenic stimuli similar to those in paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis. their occurrence can be reduced or prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. between attacks a slight postural tremor and ataxia was found in a few of the elderly affected members. fine rippling myokymia was obvious in a few and could be detected on close inspection in about half of the adults. electromyography (emg) showed myokymic discharges in all affected members. the characteristics and reactivity of this myokymic activity suggest multiple impulse generation in the peripheral nerves.
sensations during chest tube removal. nurses prepare patients for chest tube removal, yet little has been written to indicate the sensations to be expected during this routine procedure. the sensations reported by patients and factors that could influence those sensations were examined in this study. the sample consisted of 36 patients after thoracic surgery (24 men and 12 women), all of whom were scheduled to have either a mediastinal or a pleural tube removed. they reported their sensations and the intensity of those sensations (using a 100 mm visual analog scale) within 15 minutes after tube removal. the most frequently reported sensation during chest tube removal was burning, followed by pain and pulling with mean intensities of 64, 62, and 45, respectively. subjects reported having few sensations after the tube was removed with only five reporting soreness in the chest. the sensations and intensities did not differ for those who did and did not receive analgesia or for those having a pleural tube versus a mediastinal tube removed. the sensations were similar for the old and young subjects with younger subjects reporting higher intensities. women reported pain more frequently than men, but the intensities of the sensations reported by men and women were not significantly different. the sensations reported during chest tube removal differ from those described in the literature and can be used to prepare patients more appropriately for chest tube removal.
placebo controlled trial of xamoterol versus digoxin in chronic atrial fibrillation. thirteen patients in chronic atrial fibrillation with a normal resting heart rate but with exercise tachycardia and episodes of bradycardia were randomised to treatment periods of two weeks on xamoterol (200 mg twice daily), low dose digoxin, or placebo, in a blind crossover study. the results (mean sem) of symptom scores, a treadmill exercise test, and 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained. xamoterol improved symptom scores and controlled exercise heart rate better than digoxin. xamoterol was better than digoxin or placebo in reducing the heart rate response to exercise and tended to improve exercise duration. xamoterol, by reducing the daytime maximum hourly heart rate and increasing the night time minimum hourly heart rate, significantly reduced the difference between the two compared with placebo. in contrast, digoxin tended to reduce both the maximum and minimum hourly heart rates through day and night. both the frequency and duration of ventricular pauses were reduced by xamoterol but tended to increase with digoxin. xamoterol reduced both the circadian variation in ventricular response to atrial fibrillation and exercise tachycardia by modulating the heart rate according to the prevailing level of sympathetic activity. these changes were translated into symptomatic benefit for the patients studied.
embolism during caesarean section. we investigated the occurrence of gas embolism during caesarean section using a doppler ultrasound probe and found that it occurs between uterine incision and delivery. embolism is less common during general anaesthesia than has been reported during regional anaesthesia. both ruptured membranes and a protracted uterine incision to delivery interval predispose to embolism.
nicotine impairs reflex renal nerve and respiratory activity in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rats. smoking exacerbates the increase in arterial pressure in hypertension. the effect of nicotine on the baroreceptor-mediated reflex responses of renal nerve activity (rna), heart rate, and respiratory activity (minute diaphragmatic activity [mda]) after bolus injections of phenylephrine was compared in deoxycorticosterone acetate (doca)-salt sensitive and normotensive rats. osmotic minipumps that dispensed either nicotine (2.4 mg/kg/day) or saline were implanted in doca and normotensive rats for 18 days. anesthetized doca-nicotine, doca-saline, control-nicotine, and control-saline rats had mean arterial pressures (map) of 117 +/- 3, 110 +/- 9, 90 +/- 3, and 89 +/- 5 mm hg, respectively. nicotine decreased the sensitivity (p less than 0.05) of baroreceptor reflex control of rna (% delta rna/delta map) in the doca-nicotine rats (-0.92 +/- 0.08) compared with the doca-saline (-1.44 +/- 0.16), control-nicotine (-1.45 +/- 0.08), or control-saline (-1.45 +/- 0.21) rats. the reflex decrease in respiratory activity (% delta mda/delta map x 100) was impaired (p less than 0.01) in both control-nicotine (-24.5 +/- 3.3) and doca-nicotine (-18.2 +/- 4.6) rats compared with control-saline (-59.2 +/- 9.1) and doca-saline (-52.5 +/- 9.9) rats. the reflex decrease in heart rate (absolute delta hr/delta map) in both doca-nicotine (1.56 +/- 0.17) and control-nicotine (1.54 +/- 0.24) rats was augmented compared with doca-saline and control-saline rats (0.91 +/- 0.12 and 0.97 +/- 0.14).
persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with aids: successful treatment with isotretinoin. rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men, particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. we report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with aids who developed a persistent rectal ulcer. a biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia, and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ dna hybridization. this genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men, including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. the rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin, a retinoid.
the t(15;17) translocation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia fuses the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene to a novel transcribed locus. retinoic acid is a vitamin a derivative with striking effects on development and cell differentiation. several nuclear retinoic acid receptors (rars), acting as ligand-inducible transcription factors, have been characterized and indirect evidence suggests that they have distinct roles. one of the most intriguing properties of retinoic acid is its ability to induce in vivo differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (apl) cells into mature granulocytes, leading to morphological complete remissions. because the rar alpha gene maps to chromosome 17q21 (ref. 14), close to the t(15;17) (q21-q11-22) translocation specifically associated with apl, we analysed rar alpha gene structure and expression in apl cells. we report here that, in one apl-derived cell line, the rar alpha gene has been translocated to a locus, myl, on chromosome 15, resulting in the synthesis of a myl/rar alpha fusion messenger rna. using two probes located on either side of the cloned breakpoint, we have found genomic rearrangements of one or other locus in six patients out of eight, demonstrating that the rar alpha and/or myl genes are frequently rearranged in apl and the breakpoints are clustered. these findings strongly implicate retinoic acid receptor alpha in leukaemogenesis.
hypothermia and acidosis worsen coagulopathy in the patient requiring massive transfusion. massive transfusion may cause abnormalities of electrolytes, clotting factors, ph, and temperature and may occur in a scenario of refractory coagulopathy and irreversible shock. identification of correctable variables to improve survival is complicated by the interplay of this pathophysiology. temperature may be an under-appreciated problem in the genesis of coagulopathy. in vitro studies have demonstrated that platelet function and vascular response are critically temperature-dependent. we reviewed the records of 45 trauma patients without head injury or co-morbid medical illness who required massive transfusions. the mean injury severity score was 55 +/- 6, a mean of 22.5 +/- 5 units of blood was transfused, and mortality was 33%. nonsurvivors were more likely to have had penetrating injury (88% versus 55%), received more transfusions (26.5 +/- 9 versus 18.6 +/- 1, p less than 0.05), had lower ph (ph 7.04 +/- 0.06 versus 7.18 +/- 0.02, p less than 0.05), had lower core temperature (31 +/- 1 degree c versus 34 +/- 1 degree c, p less than 0.01), and had a higher incidence of clinical coagulopathy (73% versus 23%). severe hypothermia (temperature less than 34 degrees c) occurred in 80% of the nonsurvivors and in 36% of survivors. patients who were hypothermic and acidotic developed clinically significant bleeding despite adequate blood, plasma, and platelet replacement. avoidance or correction of hypothermia may be critical in preventing or correcting coagulopathy in the patient receiving massive transfusion.
the effect of graded doses of insulin on peripheral glucose uptake and lactate release in cancer cachexia. with the euglycemic clamp technique, we evaluated the effects of graded doses of insulin on glucose turnover rates and forearm lactate balance in five weight-losing patients with cancer before surgery and five age- and weight-matched healthy volunteers (control subjects). insulin was infused sequentially at increasing rates of 0.5 (low physiologic), 1.0 (high physiologic), and 4.0 (supraphysiologic) mu/kg.min for 120 minutes each. concurrently, rates of glucose appearance and disappearance were derived from [3-3h] glucose infusion. the mean postabsorptive rate of glucose appearance in patients (2.9 +/- 0.1 mg/kg.min) was significantly higher (p less than 0.02) than that of control subjects (1.98 +/- 0.16 mg/kg.min). complete suppression of endogenous glucose production occurred at high physiologic insulin concentrations. with progressive insulin infusion, the rate of glucose disappearance increased to 3.6 +/- 1.2, 8.7 +/- 0.8, and 13.7 +/- 1.1 mg/kg/min in control subjects and 2.9 +/- 0.4, 5.3 +/- 0.3, and 10.9 +/- 0.9 mg/kg.min in patients, significantly different from that of control subjects (p less than 0.05) during the intermediate (high physiologic) insulin infusion. a comparable slight increase in arterial plasma lactate concentration was observed in both groups with progressive hyperinsulinemia. baseline peripheral lactate flux was identical in patients (-272 +/- 56 nmol/100 gm.min) and in controls (-271 +/- 57 nmol/100 gm.min). progressive physiologic hyperinsulinemia resulted in significantly (p less than 0.05) augmented peripheral lactate efflux in patients (-824 +/- 181 nmol/100 gm.min) compared with control subjects (-287 +/- 64 nmol/100 gm.min). supraphysiologic insulin abolished this increased lactate efflux in patients. postabsorptive rates of endogenous glucose appearance in weight-losing patients with cancer were elevated, but complete suppression was achieved with insulin concentrations in the physiologic range. total body glucose use was diminished in these patients, consistent with a state of insulin resistance. this impaired insulin action on peripheral glucose use was associated with an increase in peripheral lactate release in patients.
dietary fats and oils in cardiac arrhythmia in rats. the effect of long-term feeding of various dietary fats and oils on cardiac arrhythmia was studied in an animal model of sudden cardiac death. after confirmation that a dietary supplement of saturated animal fat (sf) increased the animals' susceptibility to develop cardiac arrhythmia under ischemic stress whereas the polyunsaturated fatty acids of sunflower seed oil (sso) reduced this susceptibility, we found that diets supplemented with either chemically refined palm oil (po-i) or physically refined palm oil (po-ii) gave results that were generally intermediate in value between the sf and the sso groups. however, during reperfusion of a previously ischemic heart, both po-i- and po-ii-supplemented diets appeared to be as effective as sso in reducing ventricular premature beats. in addition, the incidence of animals displaying severe ventricular fibrillation was much less after palm-oil feeding than it was after sf feeding. these preliminary results warrant further investigation of the potential antiarrhythmic effects of commercial palm oil.
holter monitoring of ventricular arrhythmias in a randomised, controlled study of intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias attributed to streptokinase treatment in acute myocardial infarction is not well defined. holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours in 81 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction randomised in a ratio of 2:1 to intravenous streptokinase 1.5 x 10(6) iu (n = 55) or placebo infusion (n = 26) 6.7 hours (mean) after the onset of symptoms. no episodes of ventricular fibrillation were recorded. for the whole 24 hour period and during the first three hours after the start of treatment the incidence and frequency of ventricular arrhythmias were similar in the patients randomised to streptokinase and to placebo. but when the results in patients randomised "early" after the onset of symptoms of suspected acute myocardial infarction were analysed separately the frequency of abnormal complexes, pairs, runs, and repetitive arrhythmias seemed to be higher in patients allocated to streptokinase. this may reflect arrhythmias associated with reperfusion.
hypothalamic glucocorticoid implants prevent fetal ovine adrenocorticotropin secretion in response to stress. we evaluated the role of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (pvn) in control of acth secretion in fetal sheep. dexamethasone (dex, 700 micrograms) (n = 6) or cholesterol (chol, 700 micrograms) (n = 5) implants were placed bilaterally 2 mm lateral to pvn of fetal sheep at 108 to 111 days of gestation (dga). after 5 days recovery, fetuses were challenged with: 1) hypotension (50% drop of blood pressure), 2) hypoxemia (fall of greater than 5 mm hg in fetal pao2), and 3) corticotropin-releasing hormone (crh) (10 micrograms iv, single injection to fetus). hypotension and hypoxemia were repeated after 125 dga. compared with chol, dex fetuses had lower average concentrations of acth in plasma after hypotension [23 +/- 0.5 vs. 149 +/- 83.8 and 31 +/- 13.1 vs. 101 +/- 31.3 pg ml-1 at less than 125 and more than 125 dga, respectively (mean +/- sem, p less than 0.05)] and during hypoxemia [11 +/- 1.6 vs. 292 +/- 152.8 and 33 +/- 9.4 vs. 304 +/- 91.3 pg ml-1 at less than 125 and more than 125 dga, respectively (p less than 0.05)]. dex and chol responses to crh at 122 to 127 dga (10 micrograms iv) were not different (38 +/- 23.9 vs. 92 +/- 26.7 pg ml-1, respectively). immunocytochemistry demonstrated that crh was decreased in pvn and eliminated from median eminence in dex, but not in chol fetuses. arginine vasopressin (avp) immunostaining of pvn of dex and chol fetuses was similar; however, unlike chol, dex fetuses showed no avp immunostaining of the external zone of median eminence. these results show that, in fetal sheep, high concentrations of glucocorticoid near the fetal pvn prevent increases in plasma acth secretion seen in controls in response to hypotension and hypoxemia, and exert at least part of their effect at the level of the crh- and avp-producing neurons located in the pvn.
changes in the postenteropathic form of the hemolytic uremic syndrome in children. an analysis was made of clinical and laboratory findings in children with the diarrheal form of the hemolytic uremic syndrome (hus) treated at the children's hospital, birmingham between 1970 und 1987. from 1982 the rate of referral increased, the prodromal illness more often consisted of bloody diarrhea, and the mean age at presentation doubled from 2 to 4 years. for patients with a good outcome there was an excess of males in the period 1970-81, and females in the period 1982-87. moreover, in the years 1982-87 the disorder was distinguished from that of the earlier time by a positive correlation between adverse outcome and both neutrophil leukocytosis and a higher hemoglobin concentration at presentation. prognostic scores obtained by logistic regression analysis were specific for each period. from july 1983 stool samples were analyzed for verocytotoxin-producing escherichia coli (vtec) and neutralizable verotoxin. positive results were obtained in 39% of cases. the nature of hus has changed and the new form of the disorder is associated with vtec infection.
a nongastrin malignant ampullary tumor causing gastric acid and pepsin hypersecretion. a case report. we report a case of multiple duodenal ulcers with gastric hypersecretion due to a nongastrin secretagogue produced by a malignant tumor of the pancreas in a 78-year-old man. the case resembled a zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) with high acid output (basal acid output 27, sham meal-stimulated 37, maximum acid output 47 meq/h), but with fasting gastrin 43 pg/ml, nonresponsive to secretin. as in zes, pepsin output was comparatively low, and secretion was inhibitable by atropine (50% inhibited by 1 microm). the tumor removed at surgery contained less than 1 ng gastrin per gram, but was many times more potent than pentagastrin in stimulating acid from a lumen-perfused rat stomach. the tumor also contained cholecystokinin (cck-8 and cck-33), motilin, insulin, and somatostatin, which were also present in adjacent normal pancreas; in addition, the tumor contained pancreatic polypeptide and pancreatic cancer-associated antigen. this case represents a rare syndrome due to an as yet undefined peptide secreted by a (frequently malignant) pancreatic endocrine tumor and masquerading as zes. this is the first report of studies of pepsin secretion and of the effect of atropine, suggesting that the physiologic effects of the secretagogue resemble that of gastrin.
simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse and systolic anterior motion in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. this report describes the simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse (mvp) and systolic anterior motion (sam) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc). in 25 patients (aged 7 to 62 years, mean 29), 15 (60%) of whom were male, distal portions of the anterior or posterior mitral leaflets approached or made midsystolic contact with the ventricular septum, whereas the proximal portion of the mitral leaflets showed marked cephalad excursion into the left atrium, 5 to 15 mm beyond the mitral annular plane. three mitral valves that were available for gross visual inspection were not morphologically typical of patients with primary mvp. clinical features and natural history (1 to 14 years [mean 6] of follow-up), cardiac dimensions, and distribution of left ventricular hypertrophy defined in the study patients did not appear to differ distinctly from those in the overall referral population of patients with hc evaluated at our institution. hence, patients with hc may show a striking pattern of mitral valvular motion involving sam into the left ventricular outflow tract, as well as mvp; this prolapse motion is probably due to anatomic disproportion between the mitral valve and the small left ventricular cavity rather than to the coexistence of 2 separate disease entities. such patients further define the great diversity evident within the broad clinical spectrum of hc.
intrapleural tetracycline for the prevention of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax. results of a department of veterans affairs cooperative study this prospective, multicenter, randomized, "unblinded," controlled clinical trial was designed to determine if the intrapleural instillation of 1500 mg of tetracycline hydrochloride would be effective in diminishing the ipsilateral rate of recurrence for spontaneous pneumothorax. during the 4-year enrollment period, 113 patients were assigned to the tetracycline group; 116 patients were assigned to the control group. during the 5-year study period, the recurrence rate in the tetracycline group (25%) was significantly less than that in the control group (41%). use of tetracycline seemed to reduce the recurrence rates for patients with either primary or secondary spontaneous pneumothorax and for patients with either an initial or a recurrent pneumothorax. we conclude that the intrapleural administration of tetracycline in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax significantly reduces the rate of ipsilateral recurrence but is associated with intense chest pain. intrapleural tetracycline therapy is indicated for patients with a spontaneous pneumothorax who are hospitalized and are treated with tube thoracostomy.
cytomegalovirus colitis in aids: presentation in 44 patients and a review of the literature. as part of a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of ganciclovir in cytomegalovirus (cmv) colitis, the clinical characteristics of 44 patients enrolled at one center were analyzed in detail. all were homosexual men who had cmv on colonic biopsy. cmv colitis was the index diagnosis for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) in 11 (25%) of the 44 patients. all had diarrhea, but it was intermittent in 13 patients (30%). bleeding was uncommon, but 35 patients (80%) were febrile (median temperature of 38.9 degrees c). weight loss was reported by 39 patients (89%), among whom the median loss was 6.8 kg. endoscopy revealed normal colonic mucosa but cmv on biopsy in 11 patients (25%). colonoscopic biopsies positive for cmv were found only in the cecum in 7 (39%) of 18 patients. most patients (54%) had received zidovudine before the diagnosis of cmv colitis. the median time to the development of cmv colitis after the diagnosis of aids was 16 months in those patients who had received zidovudine and 3 months in those who had not (p less than 0.02). we conclude that cmv colitis can present early in aids and often with such nonspecific signs as fever, intermittent diarrhea, weight loss, and hematochezia. importantly, it can appear normal on colonoscopy and occurs frequently only in the right colon, necessitating full colonoscopy and multiple biopsies for accurate diagnosis.
portacaval shunt versus endoscopic sclerotherapy in the elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. eighty-two consecutive child-campbell class a and b cirrhotic patients were included in a prospective controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of portacaval anastomosis vs. endoscopic sclerotherapy as elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. forty-one patients were randomized to portacaval anastomosis and 41 to sclerotherapy. after excluding dropouts, 34 patients were treated with portacaval anastomosis and 35 with sclerotherapy. the incidence of variceal rebleeding during follow-up (mean +/- sd, 20.6 +/- 14.2 months) was significantly higher in the sclerotherapy than in the portacaval groups, either considering the overall treated group or only patients completing sclerotherapy (40% and 25% vs. 2.9%; p = 0.0002 and p = 0.01, respectively). the 2-year probability of suffering from at least one episode of hepatic encephalopathy was significantly higher in patients submitted to portacaval anastomosis than in those treated with endoscopic sclerotherapy (40% vs. 12%; p = 0.04). however, disabling encephalopathy only appeared in 3 of 34 patients who underwent surgery (8.8%). early and long-term mortality did not differ between the therapeutic groups; 2-year survival rates were 83% for portacaval anastomosis and 79% for sclerotherapy. it is concluded that portacaval anastomosis is more effective than endoscopic sclerotherapy in preventing variceal rebleeding in spite of the greater incidence of hepatic encephalopathy. the role of portacaval anastomosis in the elective treatment of variceal rebleeding should be reassessed.
the effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. the boston area anticoagulation trial for atrial fibrillation investigators background. nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke, presumably from atrial thromboemboli. there is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke. methods. we conducted an unblinded, randomized, controlled trial of long-term, low-dose warfarin therapy (target prothrombin-time ratio, 1.2 to 1.5) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. the control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin. results. a total of 420 patients entered the trial (212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years. prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time. only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently. there were 2 strokes in the warfarin group (incidence, 0.41 percent per year) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group (incidence, 2.98 percent per year), for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke (warfarin:control incidence ratio = 0.14; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.04 to 0.49; p = 0.0022). there were 37 deaths altogether. the death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group: 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year, for an incidence ratio of 0.38 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.17 to 0.82; p = 0.005). there was one fatal hemorrhage in each group. the frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups. the warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group (38 vs. 21 patients). conclusions. long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation, and can be quite safe with careful monitoring.
episodic hyperammonemia in adult siblings with hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, and homocitrullinuria syndrome. a 39-year-old man and his 42-year-old sister, both vegetarians, had episodic confusion for many years, but their mental function was normal between those episodes. they were recently diagnosed with hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, and homocitrullinuria syndrome. hyperammonemia was documented during an episode of confusion in the male sibling but not in his sister. both had elevated plasma ornithine, glutamine, and alanine levels and persistently low plasma lysine levels. homocitrulline was present in their urine, and orotic aciduria and orotidinuria developed in the male sibling following ingestion of allopurinol. studies on their cultured skin fibroblasts showed deficient metabolism of ornithine, indicating a defect in ornithine transport across the mitochondrial membrane. during therapy with citrulline and phenylbutyrate sodium, plasma ornithine levels increased in both patients, while plasma levels of glutamine and alanine decreased to normal. since therapy started, their clinical conditions have also improved, and no recurrent neurologic dysfunction has occurred during a follow-up period of 20 months.
the epidemiology of cancer among hispanic women. the experience in florida. to explore cancer incidence among hispanic women living in dade county, florida, data were analyzed from the statewide cancer registry. for all but three sites, hispanics had lower rates of the 15 most prevalent cancers than non-hispanics. however, higher rates of cancer among hispanics were noted for cancers of the gallbladder, liver, and heart and soft tissue. subgroups of women had significantly higher rates of cervical cancer and thyroid cancer. lower rates among hispanics were observed for cancers of the esophagus, vagina, breast, colon, buccal cavity and pharynx, and malignant melanoma. these data suggest that most cancer sites traditionally higher among us latino women were not higher among dade hispanics, and that sites more common among non-hispanics have not yet shown an increased incidence among hispanic women in dade county.
decreased mortality in users of estrogen replacement therapy in a prospective study of 8881 postmenopausal female residents of a retirement community in southern california, we evaluated in detail the relationship between estrogen use and overall mortality. after 7 1/2 years of follow-up, there had been 1447 deaths. women with a history of estrogen use had 20% lower age-adjusted, all-cause mortality than lifetime nonusers (95% confidence interval, 0.70 to 0.87). mortality decreased with increasing duration of use and was lower among current users than among women who used estrogens only in the distant past. current users with more than 15 years of estrogen use had a 40% reduction in their overall mortality. among oral estrogen users, relative risks of death could not be distinguished by specific dosages of the oral estrogen taken for the longest time. women who had used estrogen replacement therapy had a reduced mortality from all categories of acute and chronic arteriosclerotic disease and cerebrovascular disease. this group of women had a reduced mortality from cancer, although this reduction was not statistically significant. the mortality from all remaining causes combined was the same in estrogen users and lifetime nonusers.
epidemiologic risk factors for children with acute lower respiratory tract infection in buenos aires, argentina: a matched case-control study. the risk factors that predisposed 516 hospitalized and 154 ambulatory patients to acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) are examined in a matched case-control study. the control group was selected from children attending immunization and well-baby clinics at the same institution that was treating the children with alri. sex, age, nutritional status, socioeconomic level, as well as season and place of residence were used as matching criteria. because of their distinct profiles, hospitalized and outpatient groups were analyzed separately. however, the four variables with the highest odds ratios (incidence ratios or relative risk) were found to be the same for both groups. these variables were related to the host's condition (bronchial hyperreactivity, presence of persistent symptoms of the upper respiratory tract), family (presence of acute respiratory tract disease in household members), and environment (indoor contaminants).
lateral deviation of the eyes on forced lid closure in patients with cerebral lesions. we examined 35 patients with unilateral cerebral lesions to determine the incidence of lateral deviation of the eyes under forcefully closed lids and the reliability of this sign in predicting the side of the lesion. only patients with radiologically confirmed unilateral lesions were studied. over 70% of patients had contralateral ocular deviation (cogan's "spasticity of conjugate gaze"), 20% had ipsilateral deviation, and less than 9% of the patients had no deviation. lateral ocular deviation was as sensitive, but not as specific, as a unilateral babinski plantar response in determining the side with the lesion. contralateral deviation was more common with parietotemporal localization, suggesting that the phenomenon reflects an underlying disturbance of attentional mechanisms.
humoral factors determining the blood pressure response to converting enzyme inhibition and calcium channel blockade. renin and catecholamine levels were determined in patients with mild to moderate hypertension before and after treatment with sustained release diltiazem or captopril and were correlated with the blood pressure response to these antihypertensives. eight weeks of treatment with either agent led to equal decreases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. pretreatment plasma renin activity (pra) and plasma norepinephrine did not predict the blood pressure response to either agent. diltiazem significantly increased both pra and supine norepinephrine levels. however, in the diltiazem treated patients, there was no correlation between the change in plasma norepinephrine and the change in systolic or diastolic blood pressure. in contrast, there was a negative correlation (p less than .05) between the reactive rise in pra and the decrease in systolic blood pressure. thus, the antihypertensive response to a calcium channel blocker may be determined, in part, by the reactive response of pressor systems.
changes in the relative frequency of gastric adenocarcinoma in southern california. the incidence of gastric cancer is decreasing in most counties of the developed world, but at the los angeles county-university of southern california medical center, we diagnosed 99.8 cases of gastric adenocarcinoma per 10(5) discharges in the period 1982 to 1986 as opposed to 62.2 per 10(5) discharges in 1972 to 1976 (p less than .0001). this change involved primarily hispanics younger than 30 years of age with 30 cases per 10(5) vs 4.2 cases per 10(5) (p less than .0001) and whites older than 30 years: 87 cases per 10(5) vs 54 cases per 10(5) (p less than .05) during 1982 to 1986 and 1972 to 1976, respectively. there was no change in the relative frequency rates of gastric adenocarcinoma among african americans and asians. although these changes do not seem important enough to make the detection of gastric cancer a high-priority public health problem, they should alert physicians working in areas with high hispanic populations of the relative possibility of the occurrence of gastric malignancy even in young patients. also, we have found that gastric cancer is still prevalent in whites of low socioeconomic class.
medicinal leeches: once again at the forefront of medicine. medical grade leeches have recently been used in the management of acute problems relative to venous congestion in patients with traumatic injuries and surgical problems. specific cases, especially in the realm of reconstructive microsurgery, have demonstrated the effectiveness and application of leech therapy. specific contraindications include arterial insufficiency from either anatomic or mechanical obstruction. we present five illustrative cases of successful therapeutic intervention.
behavioral management of psychogenic cough: alternative to the "bedsheet" and other aversive techniques. the treatment of persistent psychogenic cough, a potentially debilitating condition among pediatric patients, can pose diagnostic and treatment dilemmas. its treatment by the use of a procedure called reinforced suggestion technique was described previously. the use of an alternative procedure relying upon parental and self-monitoring of coughing and either social or material rewards for decreasing rates of coughing is presented.
colonoscopy during an attack of severe ulcerative colitis is a safe procedure and of great value in clinical decision making. thirty-four patients who had severe ulcerative colitis had a colonoscopic examination during the attack. the indications were resistance to therapy and/or differential diagnostic purposes. total colonoscopy was performed in 25 cases and less extensive examination in nine. biopsy was taken in 22 cases. no clinically significant complications occurred. the procedure helped us to postpone immediate surgical intervention in 19 cases. fourteen of these patients have maintenance treatment and are still well after a follow-up median time of 5 yr (6 months to 10 yr).
intraoral-extramaxillary sinus approach for ligation of the maxillary artery: an anatomic study with clinical correlates. surgical control of severe epistaxis is usually reserved for cases refractory to more conservative techniques. we present our experience with intraoral ligation of the maxillary artery as it courses through the buccal fat pad before it enters the pterygopalatine fossa and branches posterior to the maxilla. this technique has been found useful in the control of nasal hemorrhage as well as an adjunct to other surgical procedures, such as removal of benign and malignant neoplasms involving the maxilla and paranasal sinuses. this technique was used for ligation of the maxillary artery in 20 patients. the artery was readily identified in some cases, but required more extensive dissection in others; therefore, an anatomic study in 18 preserved and fresh cadaver specimens was undertaken to investigate the variability of the maxillary artery in the region of the buccal fat pad. there appeared to be significant variation in the distance from the buccal mucosal incision site, as well as variation in the relationship to the pterygoid muscles. this relationship to the pterygoids explains the occasional difficulty in locating the artery for ligation. this technique represents a reasonable alternative to the more traditional transantral approach to ligation of the maxillary artery, as long as the surgeon understands the anatomy of the region, its variations, and where the artery may be located if not immediately apparent. no major complications have been experienced.
excess purine degradation caused by an imbalance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate in patients with congestive heart failure. to evaluate purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure concentrations of serum hypoxanthine, lactate, and noradrenaline were measured before and after submaximal treadmill exercise in 12 patients with chronic congestive heart failure and nine healthy volunteers. in four patients the concentration of hypoxanthine was significantly higher than in the controls or in the remaining eight patients with congestive heart failure. venous lactate and noradrenaline in the four patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine were also significantly higher than those in the eight patients with normal concentrations of hypoxanthine. patients who responded normally were also more likely to have been treated with vasodilators and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. exercise induced arrhythmias were more common in the patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine. these results suggest that the excess purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure might be the result of a "relative" disturbance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate caused by the shift of cellular metabolism from aerobic glycolysis to anaerobic glycolysis during submaximal exercise and that hypoxanthine (a substrate for xanthine oxidase and a source of free radicals) was increased after submaximal exercise in some patients with congestive heart failure.
maxillary sinus hypoplasia masquerading as chronic sinusitis. maxillary sinus hypoplasia is a common condition that may be misdiagnosed as chronic sinusitis. although hypoplasia can usually be seen on conventional sinus films, computed tomography may be necessary, as in the cases described by the authors in this article.
the clinical pharmacology of etoposide. etoposide, a semisynthetic derivative of podophyllotoxin, is increasingly used to treat cancer. etoposide is a phase-specific, cytotoxic drug acting in the late s and early g2 phases of the cell cycle. it appears to cause breaks in dna by either an interaction with dna-topoisomerase ii or the formation of free radicals. most studies show a biexponential decay after the intravenous (iv) administration of etoposide. the peak plasma concentrations of drug and the area under the concentration versus time curve (auc) are linearly related to the iv dose. considerable interpatient variability of pharmacokinetic variables exists after iv etoposide. various metabolites of etoposide have been identified, but their detection and quantitation are disputed. approximately 30% to 70% of an etoposide dose is excreted. the bioavailability of oral etoposide is approximately 50%, but its absorption is not linear with increasing doses within the range in clinical use. considerable interpatient and intrapatient variability exists in the pharmacokinetics of oral etoposide. there is no evidence of etoposide accumulation after multiple consecutive doses by either the iv or oral route. the exact roles of the liver and kidney in metabolism and excretion of etoposide are uncertain. etoposide has been shown to be a highly schedule-dependent drug in clinical studies. this, together with the phase-specific action of etoposide and its increasingly widespread use in treating cancer, makes the clinical pharmacology of this drug of great clinical importance.
immunohistochemical demonstration of the placental form of glutathione s-transferase, a detoxifying enzyme in human gliomas. expression of the human placental form of glutathion s-transferase (gst-pi) in human gliomas was investigated by immunohistochemical methods, and the result was compared with that of normal human glial cells. the gliomas in this study were composed of five benign astrocytomas (grade 2), ten anaplastic astrocytomas (grade 3), and 16 glioblastomas (grade 4). normal human glial cells showed only a weak immunostaining response for gst-pi in the cytoplasm or some nuclear membranes. all of benign astrocytomas had diffusely weak gst-pi immunostaining, resembling that of normal glial cells. with increasing grade, gliomas showed a strongly positive reaction for gst-pi. the positive reactions were remarkable especially in the gemistocytes and giant cells in the high-grade gliomas. these results suggest that cells of gliomas have some detoxifying function and the expression of this detoxifying enzyme, gst-pi, is related to the degree of malignancy of the gliomas.
effect of endotoxin and a burn injury on lung and liver lipid peroxidation and catalase activity. both endotoxin and a burn alone produce oxidant-induced tissue lipid peroxidation. the endotoxin response is due in large part to hydrogen peroxide. the combination of endotoxin after a burn results in an increased liver, but not lung, oxidant injury. our purpose was to determine whether the burn oxidant injury inactivated endogenous liver tissue catalase, thereby amplifying a subsequent h2o2 insult. twenty-six adult sheep were studied. twelve sheep had a 15% tbs burn. tissue catalase activity, measured in lung and liver 3 days postburn, was significantly decreased from a control of 3.58 +/- 1.8 and 193 +/- 63, respectively, to 1.72 +/- 0.63 and 148 +/- 33 k(sec-1)/0.5 gram tissue. the addition of endotoxin 3 days postburn resulted in an increase in liver malondialdehyde, mda, a measure of lipid peroxidation, from a control of 110 +/- 80 to 450 +/- 54 nmol/gram tissue. this value was significantly greater than the 210 +/- 80 nmol/gram tissue seen after endotoxin alone. lung tissue mda with burn and endotoxin was 65 +/- 8 compared to 42 +/- 7 for control and 80 +/- 6 nmol/gram for endotoxin alone. we conclude that a decrease in liver catalase activity occurs after a burn. the decrease corresponds to an accentuated oxidant-induced lipid peroxidation after an added endotoxin insult where h2o2 is known to be an etiologic agent. the catalase activity also decreases in postburn lung, but accentuated lung damage was not seen, indicating a variable tissue response from the burn-induced decrease in antioxidant activity.
usefulness of the electrophysiology laboratory for evaluation of proarrhythmic drug response in coronary artery disease. two potential manifestations of proarrhythmic responses to type ia antiarrhythmic agents in the electrophysiology laboratory were evaluated in 122 patients with chronic coronary artery disease and previous myocardial infarction: (1) conversion of uniform nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (vt) into sustained vt after drug administration, and (2) induction of sustained vt by fewer extrastimuli after drug administration. forty-two patients were evaluated for nonsustained vt. eighty patients were evaluated for sustained vt: 30 of these had spontaneous sustained vt only while receiving empiric therapy with quinidine or procainamide, whereas the remaining 50 developed spontaneous vt in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. all patients underwent programmed stimulation in the baseline state and after procainamide. four patients had conversion of induced uniform nonsustained vt into the same morphology, but sustained vt after procainamide administration. these responses only occurred in patients evaluated for nonsustained vt. over 90% of patients presenting with sustained vt had uniform sustained vt induced at the baseline study and after procainamide, regardless of whether the spontaneous arrhythmia occurred only in the presence or absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. there was no significant difference in the change in mode of induction from baseline to procainamide study, regardless of whether patients had developed spontaneous vt only in the presence or absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. one patient with no inducible vt at the baseline study had inducible uniform sustained vt after procainamide administration, and 1 patient with inducible vt at baseline developed spontaneous sustained uniform vt after procainamide administration. both patients had developed spontaneous sustained vt only while receiving therapy with type ia agents.
islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices. report of a case and review of the literature. gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas. islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare. they present in a variety of ways. those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes. nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement. we present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation. we emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery.
oral contraceptives and breast cancer. review and meta-analysis. to evaluate the relation between use of oral contraceptives and the incidence of breast cancer, the authors reviewed the epidemiologic literature and used quantitative methods to summarize the data. study results for any use of oral contraceptives were pooled using a model that accounted for both interstudy and intrastudy variability. the authors also explored interstudy variability and modeled a duration-effect relation between oral contraceptive use and breast cancer. case-control and follow-up studies were considered separately. overall, the authors observed no increase in the risk of breast cancer for women who had ever used oral contraceptives, even after a long duration of use. these results were consistent across study design. however, data combined from case-control studies revealed a statistically significant positive trend (p = 0.001) in the risk of premenopausal breast cancer for women exposed to oral contraceptives for longer duration. this risk was predominant among women who used oral contraceptives for at least 4 years before their first term pregnancy (relative risk = 1.72; 95% confidence interval = 1.36 to 2.19). additional study is required to determine whether this finding in a subgroup of exposed women is confirmed and whether the risk remains increased with advancing age.
local recurrence and survival following nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy. from march 1982 through july 1988, 76 men underwent nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy for carcinoma of the bladder at our hospital. of the 76 patients 2 (2.6%) had positive surgical margins (dome of the bladder and left ureter) and neither had positive margins at the site of nerve-sparing modifications. of 3 patients (3.9%) who had local recurrence none had positive surgical margins. the 5-year actuarial local recurrence rate is 7.5%. thirteen of 76 patients (17%) died of transitional cell carcinoma and 7 (9%) died of other causes, while 53 (70%) are alive without evidence of disease with a mean followup of 38.4 months. the 5-year actuarial survival rates are 64% over-all, 68% without disease and 78% disease-specific. of the 42 evaluable men who underwent cystoprostatectomy alone 27 (64%) are potent, compared to 2 of the 12 men (17%) who also underwent urethrectomy. we conclude that the nerve-sparing modifications do not compromise cancer control, that local recurrence and survival rates are at least comparable to those achieved with standard radical cystoprostatectomy, and that it is possible to preserve potency in most men undergoing this procedure.
osseointegration of titanium implants in total hip arthroplasty. osseointegration is defined as direct contact on the light microscopic level between living bone tissue and the implant. using titanium screw dental implants in the jaw, a lasting interface under loaded conditions extending over a 20-year follow-up period has been demonstrated. this demonstration brings up the question whether a similar interface can be achieved in total hip arthroplasty (tha) between living bone and a titanium alloy implant under necessitated conditions of immediate loading. two series of cases are reported. the first series used a femoral, press-fit, titanium alloy component and the second used a press-fit titanium acetabular component and redesigned femoral, press-fit, titanium alloy component. both demonstrated a high percentage of good to excellent results. roentgenograms showed that the geometrical changes in the redesigned femoral component gave early indications of a better fixation with loading in valgus, less subsidence, and less evidence of distal stress transfer. a two-and-one-half-year postoperative anatomic specimen study confirmed osseointegration to the press-fit titanium alloy femoral component. multiple areas of contact between bone and metal without fibrous interposition were seen. examination by electron microscopy supported the light microscopic findings. these findings support further use of smooth, press-fit titanium components in thas without the need for porous coating, mesh, or other surface modifications.
inhibition of tumor growth in a glioma model treated with boron neutron capture therapy. this investigation attempts to determine whether increased survival time seen when the f98 glioma model is treated with boron neutron capture therapy (bnct) is a result of inhibition of tumor growth caused by radiation-induced alterations in endothelial cells and normal tissue components. this indirect effect of radiation has been called the tumor bed effect. a series of tumor-bearing rats was studied, using a standardized investigational bnct protocol consisting of 50 mg/kg of na2b12h11sh injected intravenously 14 to 17 hours before neutron irradiation at 4 x 10(12) n/cm2. ten rats, serving as controls, received no treatment either before or after tumor implantation. a second group of 10 rats was treated with bnct 4 days before tumor implantation; these animals received no further treatment. the remaining group of 10 rats received no pretreatment but was treated with bnct 10 days after implantation. histological and ultrastructural analyses were performed in 2 animals from each group 17 days after implantation. survival times of the untreated control animals (mean, 25.8 days) did not differ statistically from the survival times of the rats in the pretreated group (mean, 25.5 days). the rats treated with bnct after implantation survived significantly longer (p less than 0.02; mean, 33.2 days) than the controls and the preirradiated animals. tumor size indices calculated from measurements taken at the time of death were similar in all groups. these results indicate that, with this tumor model, bnct does not cause a tumor bed effect in cerebral tissue. the therapeutic gains observed with bnct result from direct effects on tumor cells or on the peritumoral neovascularity.
pulmonary metastases and bone sarcomas. surgical removal of lesions appearing after adjuvant chemotherapy. pulmonary metastasis is the leading cause of death in pediatric patients with bone tumors. multiple thoracotomies for surgical removal of individual lesions are performed at many centers. to explore the efficacy of this procedure and establish guidelines for an appropriate choice of patients, the experience with 43 thoracotomies in 24 children was reviewed. the appearance of first metastasis later than one year after diagnosis, presence of fewer than five nodules, and completeness of surgical resection were favorable predictors of postthoractomy survival. early or multiple metastases, unresectable disease, and hilar, nodal, or pleural lesions conferred an unfavorable prognosis. with careful patient selection, pulmonary metastecotomy is a safe procedure that has few operative or long-term complications. it must be emphasized that although surgical removal of pulmonary metastases prolongs survival with good quality of life, the majority of patients with bone sarcomas ultimately succumb to their disease after thoracotomy. follow-up time of greater than eight years is necessary to adequately assess the effectiveness of pulmonary resection in eradicating all disease in these patients.
long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. a total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of grades i to iii (hunt and hess classification) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography (ct)-visualized infarcts after sah and surgery. the administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made. of the 213 patients enrolled in the study, 58 were operated on early (within 72 hours after the bleed: days 0 to 3), 69 were operated on subacutely (between days 4 and 7), and 74 had late surgery (on day 8 or later). eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on. a follow-up examination with ct scanning, performed 1 to 3 years after the sah (mean 1.4 years), revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups. however, nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia (p = 0.01) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in the whole population (p = 0.05), especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission ct scan (p = 0.03).
sclerotherapy of varicose and telangiectatic leg veins. minimal sclerosant concentration of hypertonic saline and its relationship to vessel diameter the author reports the results of a double-blind, paired-comparison study using saline sclerosant plus or minus heparin additive. the study was designed to elucidate the effects of increasing concentrations of hypertonic saline with regard to vessel diameter, clinical efficacy, complications, and discomfort. six hundred women with bilaterally symmetrical starburst telangiectasias or varicose veins were entered into the study. sodium chloride 11.7% appeared to be the minimal sclerosant concentration of saline that produced the most effective vein sclerosis of vessels of less than 8 mm in diameter, while producing the least morbidity. the optimal concentration of the sclerosant may vary with the diameter of the vessels under therapeutic consideration.
selective breeding of dogs for segregation of limb edema from microfilaremia as clinical manifestations of brugia infections. three generations of beagles were monitored for microfilaremia (mf) and clinical disease during repeated infection with brugia pahangi and were selectively bred for offspring manifesting limb edema and low or amicrofilaremia. a high microfilaremic female mated to a high microfilaremic male produced 7 pups, 6 of which maintained mf greater than 1,000/ml for greater than 2 years after 5 monthly infections of 10 infective larvae each. an uninfected female mated to another high mf male produced 5 pups, 4 of which did not exceed 1,000 mf/ml 7 months after initiation of the repeating infection regimen; 1 of these remained amicrofilaremic after 2 additional challenges. neither the parents nor the offspring from these matings manifested chronic limb edema. two matings were conducted with offspring from the microfilaremic female by breeding siblings with the lowest mf and breeding siblings with the highest mf. the high mf siblings produced 4/5 offspring manifesting chronic limb edema (greater than or equal to 7 months duration) and either no mf (in 2 dogs) or less than 100 mf/ml after the repeating infection regimen. the lower mf siblings produced 5 offspring, all with greater than 1,000 mf/ml 6 months after the initiation of the repeating infection regimen; none manifested edema. comparisons of igg antibody levels, specific for extracts of adult worms, showed no consistent differences between these 2 litters of dogs that could be associated with limb edema or mf when monitored for 16 months; however, the onset of lymph node enlargement was much earlier in the group of dogs manifesting limb edema than in the other litter.
the influence of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus on immediate and 3-month morbidity and mortality after acute stroke. fasting serum glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fructosamine concentrations were determined in 304 consecutive subjects admitted with acute stroke, within 48 hours of ictus. based on the medical history and these results, subjects were divided into known diabetics, newly diagnosed diabetics, subjects with stress hyperglycemia, and nondiabetics. the type of stroke was classified as lacunar infarct, cerebral infarct, or intracerebral hemorrhage, based on clinical examination by a neurologist and computed tomographic brain scan and/or autopsy. immediate and 3-month outcomes were examined in relation to (1) fasting glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fructosamine levels by stroke subtypes, and (2) glucose tolerance categories by stroke subtypes. a high fasting glucose level was associated with an increased mortality, but this was observed only among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. patients with stress hyperglycemia, but not diabetics, had increased mortality. in spite of having similar glucose concentrations to those patients with stress hyperglycemia, diabetics did not have a worse outcome compared with nondiabetics. it is concluded that the association between glucose concentration and outcome is a reflection of stress relating to stroke severity, rather than a direct harmful effect of glucose on damaged neurons.
stiffman syndrome: a rare paraneoplastic disorder? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome, associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus, is reported. pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders. this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic.
characterization and significance of sulfonylurea receptors. this study describes and characterizes a putative sulfonylurea receptor. the radioligand used was [3h]glipizide (9 ci/mmol). the beta-cell plasma membranes were derived from a transplantable rat insulinoma generated by subcutaneous injection of rinm5f cells and purified by ultracentrifugation on a 15-55% sucrose gradient. specific binding of [3h]glipizide to purified beta-cell plasma membranes was determined to be maximal at temperatures of 4-23 degrees c, ph 7.3, and an incubation of 2 h. scatchard analysis indicated a single binding site with kd = 7 nm and sulfonylurea binding of 0.93 pmol/mg membrane protein. displacement of [3h]glipizide from the purified beta-cell plasma membranes by various sulfonylureas and their analogues correlated well with their known hypoglycemic and insulin-releasing activities. various agents, including nutrients, agents affecting ca2+ flux, gastrointestinal hormones, and pancreatic hormones, had no effect on [3h]glipizide binding to the beta-cell plasma membranes. putative sulfonylurea receptors on beta-cell and brain cell plasma membranes have been reported by several groups of investigators. sulfonylurea binding to the beta-cell is hypothesized to close an atp-sensitive k+ channel, which leads to depolarization of the membrane and activation of a voltage-dependent ca2+ channel.
corticosteroid treatment reduces mast cell numbers in inflammatory bowel disease. mast cell degranulation in the gut causes mucus secretion, mucosal edema, and increased gut permeability and may be responsible for some of the symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease. we have used a novel monoclonal antibody (aai) against tryptase expressed exclusively in the granules of mast cells to enumerate mast cells in rectal biopsies in order to study the effect of inflammatory bowel disease and drug treatment upon rectal mast cell numbers. rectal mast cell numbers are significantly reduced in inflammatory bowel disease patients taking corticosteroids (mean 4.95 cells/mm2) when compared with control patients (10.1, p less than 0.001) and inflammatory bowel disease patients not taking corticosteroids (9.7, p less than 0.001 wilcoxon rank sum test). the reduction in mast cell counts was independent of the degree of inflammation or architectural distortion. there was a negative correlation between the dose of corticosteroids and mast cell count (r = 0.53, p less than 0.05 spearman rank correlation), and the mast cell count was reduced within a few days of treatment and remained low throughout steroid therapy. mucosal mast cell depletion may be an important mechanism of action of corticosteroids in inflammatory bowel disease.
angiotropic b-cell lymphoma (malignant angioendotheliomatosis): failure of systemic chemotherapy. a 65-year-old female with angiotropic b-cell lymphoma is reported. despite the absence of systemic involvement on formal staging and the favourable response of the cutaneous lesions to triple systemic chemotherapy with prednisolone, vincristine and cyclophosphamide, postmortem findings showed that death was due to widespread disease dissemination.
transcranial stab wounds: morbidity and medicolegal awareness. in this series of eight patients with transcranial stab wounds, the importance of classifications of such wounds as a separate traumatic entity is stressed. the mechanisms of neuronal and vascular damage in these wounds are discussed and are found to be specific from other head injuries. cerebral injury by stabbing is largely restricted to the wound tract. frontal stabs (two cases) are accompanied by the least morbidity and mortality, while temporal stabs (four cases) are more commonly fatal. in transorbital stabs (two cases) carotid-cavernous fistulae resulted. early recognition, administration of antitetanus serum and antibiotics, and debridement may minimize complications.
reversed lateralization of cognitive functions in right handers. exceptions to classical aphasiology. most current and past research on the cerebral organization of cognitive functions has presupposed certain specialized hemisphere operations. at least for right handers, language and praxis are to be organized in the left hemisphere, while affective prosody, configurational spatial capacity, and global attention are lateralized in the right hemisphere. deviations from these presuppositions, as in crossed aphasics and perhaps left handers, are generally considered to be 'exceptions' and either to disprove the rules or to be irrelevant to the rule. we report 4 very 'exceptional' cases, right handers with almost entirely reversed lateralization of functions. analysis of the intrahemispheric relationships between functions suggests that there may be a specific neurobiology to the interrelationships between and among cognitive functions, handedness, and the intrahemisphere localization of the function.
development and reversal of contingent inefficacy and tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of carbamazepine. the relationship of the timing of drug administration to anticonvulsant efficacy against amygdala kindled seizures was studied. during kindling development, rats received carbamazepine (cbz, 15mg/kg) before (cbz-before) or after each amygdala stimulation (cbz-after). after kindling to full seizures, when all animals were given cbz before the stimulation, only the cbz-after group showed a good anticonvulsant response. the rats that had received cbz before (during development of kindled seizures) remained unresponsive to cbz treatment (contingent inefficacy). when drug-naive or cbz-after animals repeatedly received cbz before electrical stimulation, they developed tolerance to its anticonvulsant effects (contingent tolerance). the tolerance could be reversed by a period of treatment with cbz-after or by kindling the animal drug-free, but not by cbz administration alone or by time off from both drug and seizures. these findings suggest that inefficacy and tolerance to cbz may be affected by the temporal contingencies of drug administration and that responsiveness can be reinstated by altering these contingencies.
cystic fibrosis mutations in north american populations of french ancestry: analysis of quebec french-canadian and louisiana acadian families. a 3-bp deletion (delta f508) in the cystic fibrosis (cf) gene is the mutation on the majority of cf chromosomes. we studied 112 cf families from north american populations of french ancestry: french-canadian families referred from hospitals in three cities in quebec and from the saguenay-lac st. jean region of northeastern quebec and acadian families living in louisiana. delta f508 was present on 71%, 55%, and 70% of the cf chromosomes from the major-urban quebec, saguenay-lac st. jean, and louisiana acadian families, respectively. a weighted estimate of the proportion of delta f508 in the french-canadian patient population of quebec was 70%. we found that 95% of the cf chromosomes with delta f508 had d7s23 haplotype b, the most frequent haplotype on cf chromosomes. in the saguenay-lac st. jean families, 86% of the cf chromosomes without delta f508 had the b haplotype, compared with 31% for the major-urban quebec and louisiana acadian families. the incidence of cf in the saguenay-lac st. jean population was 1/895 live-born infants.
estimation of myocardial ischemic injury during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest using high-energy phosphates and lactate as metabolic markers. study objective: to define the time course of myocardial ischemic injury using high-energy phosphate (hep) depletion and the cessation of lactate production as metabolic markers. setting: data were collected in a laboratory animal model. type of participants: ten immature mixed breed swine weighing 23.2 +/- 3.5 kg. design: after thoracotomy, transmural myocardial biopsies were taken in vivo during normal sinus rhythm and at designated times during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest (vf-tca). measurements and main results: frozen tissue samples were analyzed for adenine nucleotides, by high-performance liquid chromatography, and lactate by enzymatic assay. at five minutes of vf-tca, myocardial adenosine triphosphate averaged 50% of control. at 15 minutes of vf-tca, 89% of animals had myocardial adenosine triphosphate levels above 20% of control and adenylate charge ratio above 0.60. with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca, all animals had adenosine triphosphate levels below 10% of control and adenylate charge ratio below 0.30. in addition, myocardial lactate levels plateaued after 30 minutes of vf-tca, indicating the cessation of lactate production. conclusion: these results suggest that the myocardium can tolerate vf-tca for as long as 15 minutes without irreversible injury; however, post-ischemic myocardial dysfunction may occur after as little as five minutes of vf-tca. with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca, myocardial injury is likely to be irreversible.
changes in gastric mucosa that antedate gastric carcinoma. endoscopic biopsy specimens of the gastric mucosa from 13 patients who were found at follow-up examination to have gastric carcinoma were compared for abnormal histologic features, type of intestinal metaplasia, and presence of immunoreactive carcinoembryonic antigen (cea), with specimens from 40 tumor-free controls. villus-like changes and angular infolding, cytologic nuclear pleomorphism, distinct nuclear border, irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane, irregular chromatin clumping, prominent nucleoli, and distinct nucleoli were manifestations of the carcinoma group. angular infolding, distinct nuclear border, irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane, and distinct nucleoli were also observed in the latent stage before detection of carcinoma. the individual features, however, lacked specificity. histochemically, a iib subtype of intestinal metaplasia, and immunoreactive cea in the cytoplasm of foveolar epithelium appeared exclusively in the patients with carcinoma. these findings indicate that the gastric epithelium of patients with gastric carcinoma tends to be morphologically and histochemically abnormal even before the recognition of classical dysplasia. this can be described as abnormal epithelium and is believed to provide the soil on which gastric carcinoma develops.
follow-up of patients with low output, low gradient hemodynamics after percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty: the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry. symptomatic patients with a low cardiac output and low aortic valve gradient have a poor prognosis but are at high risk for aortic valve surgery. the outcome of percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty in this subgroup of patients is unclear. therefore, 67 patients (group 1) underwent percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty between december 1, 1986 and november 1, 1987 who had a low cardiac index (less than 2.5 liters/min per m2) and a low aortic valve gradient (less than or equal to 40 mm hg) before the procedure. the results were compared with 200 patients (group 2) who had a low cardiac index but not a low aortic valve gradient (greater than 40 mm hg) before the procedure and who had similar baseline presenting symptoms. after balloon aortic valvuloplasty, there was a greater decrease in aortic valve gradient in patients in group 2 than in patients in group 1 (mean +/- sd -33.0 +/- 16.7 mm hg and -14.6 +/- 6.9 mm hg, respectively; p less than 0.001) although there was no significant difference in improvement in estimated aortic valve area (0.31 +/- 0.21 and 0.31 +/- 0.22 cm2, respectively; p = ns). in-hospital mortality was 11.9% for patients in group 1 which was not significantly different from the 7.5% mortality for patients in group 2. however, the actuarial probability of survival at 12 months for patients who survived the initial hospitalization was 46% in group 1 and 64% in group 2 (p less than 0.05). moreover, at follow-up (mean 8.8 months) 64% of surviving group 1 patients displayed clinical improvement, compared with 70% of surviving group 2 patients.
long-term minoxidil treatment in refractory hypertension and renal failure. twenty-two patients with severe or accelerated hypertension refractory to conventional hypotensive therapy have been treated with minoxidil for an extended period. patients were divided in three groups according to different degrees of renal function or the presence of accelerated hypertension. in the first group (8 patients with normal or slightly decreased renal function) bp fell from 197 +/- 11/118 +/- 3 before minoxidil therapy to 157 +/- 7/98 +/- 2 after six months (p less than 0.001), and remained steady during the following eighteen months. in the second group (9 patients with creatinine clearance of 30 +/- 3 ml/min.1.73 m2) bp decreased from 192 +/- 9/119 +/- 4 to 147 +/- 6/91 +/- 4 at six months (p less than 0.001); renal function did not show any significant modification during the eighteen months of the study. in the third group (5 patients with accelerated hypertension) bp fell from 243 +/- 14/137 +/- 6 to 166 +/- 13/99 +/- 7 at six months (p less than 0.01). seven patients, four in the first and three in the second group, were followed for more than six years; these patients, with mild renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance 50 +/- 4 ml/min) before minoxidil therapy, were on a protein unrestricted diet for the entire length of the study. in this group of patients bp fell from 182 +/- 9/115 +/- 3 to 150 +/- 6/96 +/- 2 after one year (p less than 0.01) and remained well controlled for the following six years or more. renal function did not show any significant worsening over the years (monthly decrement in creatinine clearance 0.08 ml/min).
a critical review of chemical lymph node clearance and staging of colon and rectal cancer at ferguson hospital, 1977 to 1982 a unique opportunity to evaluate the method of chemical lymph node clearance for colorectal cancer exists at ferguson hospital. lymph node clearance has been used at the institution since 1977, and this retrospective analysis was undertaken to ascertain its validity there. furthermore, the node positive group was evaluated to ascertain if the current staging system (turnbull, 1967) is prognostically accurate for the dukes' c group. specifically evaluated for possible prognostic variance was the survival of those patients whose tumors demonstrated partial bowel wall penetration and only one to four positive nodes, a "c1 subset," previously reported to have favorable prognosis. eight hundred sixty-four cases of colon and rectal cancer treated surgically from 1977 to 1982 were analyzed. there was a mean of 27 lymph nodes retrieved per specimen and a mean of 4.5 positive nodes per dukes' c specimen. there were 43 c1 and 201 c2 cases with five-year survival rates of 73 and 38 percent, respectively. the results of chemical clearance at ferguson hospital were found to be comparable with that of other centers using chemical clearance and superior to hand dissection. the c1 subset clearly is noted to have prognostic advantage and should occupy a separate designation in any staging system.
the starved colon--diminished mucosal nutrition, diminished absorption, and colitis. nutrition of colonic epithelial cells is mainly from short chain fatty acids (scfas) produced by bacterial fermentation in the colonic lumen. n-butyrate contributes more carbon of oxidation to epithelial cells than glucose or glutamine from the vasculature. incomplete starvation of colonic epithelial cells through lack of luminal scfas leads, in the short term, to mucosal hypoplasia with either diminished absorption or diarrhea. a chronic lack of scfas or complete organ starvation in conjunction with other factors leads to nutritional colitis, either "diversion colitis" or "starvation colitis." whether predominantly diarrhea or colitis develops in mucosal malnutrition appears to depend upon the severity and duration of starvation. ulcerative colitis may be classified as a nutritional colitis in that colonic epithelial cells are unable to utilize scfas reflecting epithelial starvation despite abundant scfas.
preventing cervical cancer by treating genital warts in men. why male sex partners need androscopy. the increased incidence of cancer of the genitourinary and anorectal areas has been directly related to the coexistence of genital human papillomavirus infection. the diagnosis and treatment of condyloma acuminatum in men is important not only to prevent cancer but also to decrease the reservoir of virus that is being transferred to women. screening with androscopy (examination of male genitals with a colposcope after a vinegar solution has been applied to the skin) is indicated for all men who are at risk for this infection. treatment options include chemical application, cryosurgery, laser therapy, and interferon injections. to be effective, treatment must include both sexual partners.
practical aspects of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone administration. pulsatile administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents a major advance in the treatment of anovulation in women who fail to ovulate with clomiphene citrate and is an alternative for many women who currently receive human menopausal gonadotropin. four issues must be addressed before administering pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone: (1) safety, (2) efficacy, (3) convenience, and (4) cost. each of these issues will be affected by the three major decisions a physician makes with gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy: (1) patient selection, (2) route of administration, and (3) dose of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. the ideal candidate for gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a patient with an absence of endogenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone, as seen in hypothalamic amenorrhea. although women with polycystic ovarian disease can be treated with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone, a decreased ovulation rate should be expected. the route of administration, intravenous or subcutaneous, and the degree of monitoring can be tailored by the physician to fit each patient's needs. pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a safe, effective, convenient, and economical alternative to human menopausal gonadotropin for ovulation induction in women resistant to clomiphene.
high-risk metastatic gestational trophoblastic disease. a new dose-intensive, multiagent chemotherapeutic regimen. dose-intensive, multiagent chemotherapy for the treatment of high-risk gestational trophoblastic disease has evolved as the treatment of choice for these patients. high-dose methotrexate in combination with etoposide, dactinomycin, vincristine and cyclophosphamide (ema-co) has now been demonstrated to be superior to the traditional methotrexate, dactinomycin, cyclophosphamide chemotherapy in patients with prognostic scores of greater than or equal to 8. an attempt was made to improve upon the ema-co regimen by increasing the dose intensity of etoposide and adding cisplatin to the high-dose methotrexate, etoposide and dactinomycin. that regimen was used on four patients with ultra-high-risk gestational trophoblastic disease.
the internal oblique-iliac crest free flap in composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone, skin, and mucosa. the reconstruction of oromandibular defects following ablative surgery is a challenging undertaking. when the defect involves skin as well as mucosa, the challenge becomes even greater. the internal oblique iliac crest osteomyocutaneous free flap is particularly useful for reconstruction of through-and-through composite defects due to the inclusion of two separate soft-tissue flaps on the same vascular pedicle. we report our experience with this flap in the reconstruction of 10 patients with such defects. the utility, and the limitations of this form of reconstruction are discussed in detail.
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators. a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described, and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported. nine patients use their implants for micturition, and seven are fully continent. the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed.
the papillary-cystic neoplasm of the pancreas. an increasingly recognized clinicopathologic entity. the clinical course of the papillary-cystic neoplasm of the pancreas is contrasted with that of the pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. the former occurs predominantly in young women, has a low malignant potential, and is highly curable with surgical treatment. three cases are reported that illustrate the typical clinical features and the indolent nature of the tumor. one case was discovered after blunt abdominal trauma resulted in rupture of the tumor and hemoperitoneum. all cases were treated by pancreatic resection with preservation of the spleen, an important consideration in younger patients. all patients were free of disease at long-term follow-up. increasing awareness of this tumor has resulted in the reclassification of several tumors and should lead to better recognition by surgeons caring for patients with pancreatic diseases.
stroke rehabilitation: australian patient profile and functional outcome. a prospective, multi-institutional, population based study identified 1274 non-surgical stroke admissions to all hospitals in a major australian city during 1984. the demographic and diagnostic profile and the nature of functional recovery of all 258 first stroke survivors who were referred for inpatient rehabilitation are presented. the median duration of rehabilitation stay was 49 days. the mean functional independence score, as measured on a modified barthel index at admission was 44, compared with 78 on discharge, a mean improvement of 34. stair climbing had the lowest mean value on admission (12), while bowel control had the lowest residual deficit on discharge (95). the stroke study group was representative of the unimpaired aged population in all respects except ethnicity, where differences are attributed to age. the variables identified as significant are; side and severity of paralysis, age and sex, marital status and ethnicity. stroke rehabilitation outcome was not influenced by etiology, site of lesion, arterial distribution, occupation or education.
reversal of cardiac dysfunction secondary to type 1 primary hyperoxaluria after combined liver-kidney transplantation. a 23-year-old man with type 1 primary hyperoxaluria, renal failure, and oxalosis developed a severe cardiomyopathy while awaiting combined liver-kidney transplantation. this manifested as radiographic cardiomegaly, a dilated hypokinetic left ventricle with a decreased ejection fraction, ventricular arrhythmias, and cardiac uptake on bone scanning. on liver and kidney transplantation, these abnormalities markedly improved and/or reversed. the cardiac size almost normalized, the left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 20% to 34%, the ventricular arrhythmias resolved, and the cardiac uptake on bone scanning disappeared. this coincided with normalization of oxalate production and excretion. severe cardiac involvement secondary to oxalosis in patients with primary hyperoxaluria may improve or reverse with combined liver-kidney transplantation.
surgical outcome in 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war. variables important in predicting the final postsurgical outcome of 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war were evaluated over a 99-month period. the type of projectile, site of injury, and presence or absence of foreign material did not seem to have a significant effect on the final outcome. of the patients with a perforating type of injury, 48.8% had a poor surgical outcome as compared with 19.9% with a penetrating type and 15.6% with a tangential type. this difference is statistically significant (chi 2 = 14.7 and 17.1, respectively; p less than 0.001). the most important factor in predicting overall outcome was the glasgow coma scale (gcs) score at the time of admission. mortality and morbidity contributing to a poor surgical outcome were noted in only 6% of patients with a gcs score at admission of 13 to 15, in 24.6% of those with a gcs score of 9 to 12, in 57% of those with a gcs score of 6 to 8, and in 65% of those with a gcs score of 3 to 5. of the 71 patients who died, 75% had a score of 3 to 8. perforating projectiles or those traversing two or more dural compartments were statistically significant in contributing to mortality and morbidity (chi 2 = 17.2; p less than 0.001). the incidence of focal neurological deficit was 100, 90.6, 88, and 52.2% in patients with gcs scores of 3 to 5, 6 to 8, 9 to 12, and 13 to 15, respectively. the two best predictors of mortality in this group of patients were a low gcs score and infection.
preoperative chemotherapy (cisplatin and fluorouracil) and radiation therapy in stage iii non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase ii study of the lung cancer study group. the lung cancer study group conducted a phase ii pilot study of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy (chemoradiotherapy) before surgery in 85 eligible patients with non-small-cell cancer limited to the chest but in whom attempted resection would have been likely to leave residual disease (advanced stage iiia and minimal stage iiib disease). cisplatin, 75 mg/m2, was given on days 1 and 29; fluorouracil, 1 g/m2 per 24 hours, was administered as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 4 and on days 29 through 32; and thoracic radiation, 30 gy in 15 fractions, was administered on days 1 through 19. two patients achieved a complete response and 46 patients had a partial response for an overall response rate of 56%. toxicity from chemoradiotherapy was moderate but acceptable. eight weeks after therapy was initiated, 54 patients underwent thoracotomy and tumor resection was attempted: 29 (34%) had complete resection and 15 (18%) had incomplete resection. although surgical dissection was generally more difficult than in patients not pretreated with chemoradiotherapy, there was no apparent increase in postoperative complications. in 8 patients (9%), no viable tumor was detected pathologically in the resection specimen. of the 18 patients whose tumors were completely resected and had disease recurrence, none had recurrence only in the chest, 12 (67%) had recurrence only in distant sites, and 3 developed second primary tumors. median survival of all patients was 13 months. the overall results do not indicate a major benefit from this preoperative chemoradiotherapy regimen in patients with advanced but potentially resectable non-small-cell lung cancer. these results suggest a need to define better the relative roles of preoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
genetic data and natural history of friedreich's disease: a study of 80 italian patients. the clinical and genetic features of 80 patients with friedreich's disease from 64 families are described. diagnostic criteria were: no evidence of dominant inheritance, onset by the age of 20 years, progressive unremitting ataxia of limbs and gait, and absence of knee and ankle jerks. furthermore, at least one of the following accessory signs was present: dysarthria, extensor plantar response and echocardiographic evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. two peaks of onset age were evident at 6-9 and 12-15 years. analysis of intra-family variation of onset age and absence of clustering of cardiomyopathy and diabetes did not suggest genetic heterogeneity. peripheral nerve impairment was an early finding and showed slight further progression, whereas involvement of the cerebellar and corticospinal pathways appeared later and mainly accounted for the progressive worsening of the disease.
push-enteroscopy for diagnosis of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. push-enteroscopy using a disinfected colonoscope was performed on 39 patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. our results show that: (1) a high percentage of patients (38%) have pathological lesions responsible for bleeding located in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum, which are readily detected by push-enteroscopy. (2) duodeno-jejunal arteriovenous malformations (avms) are the most common cause for bleeding, and these lesions can be conveniently cauterized through the endoscope. (3) an efficient sequence of steps for diagnosis of patients with this problem includes push-enteroscopy when the initial egd and colonoscopy are normal followed by small bowel radiography. mesenteric angiography and intraoperative enteroscopy can be reserved for patients with severe bleeding when push-enteroscopy and small bowel radiography are negative. we conclude that push-enteroscopy has an important role to play in the early assessment of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin.
epididymal metastasis from prostatic adenocarcinoma mimicking adenomatoid tumor. a case of epididymal metastasis from prostatic carcinoma is presented. the initial histologic findings were suggestive of adenomatoid tumor, but a diagnosis of metastatic adenocarcinoma of prostatic origin has been established by prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate-specific antigen immunoperoxidase staining.
sexually transmitted causes of gastrointestinal symptoms in homosexual men. the possible etiologic agents that may cause gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men are multiple, and their diagnosis is complex. this article presents a logical approach to the work-up and diagnosis of gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men and to discuss their treatment and disease intervention.
cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea following acoustic neurinoma surgery. technical note. the authors describe a method of preventing cerebrospinal fluid (csf) rhinorrhea following surgery for acoustic neurinoma. mastoid air cells exposed during craniectomy are skeletonized and packed with bone dust, then covered with surgicel soaked with tisseel fibrin glue. the use of this technique has reduced the number of acoustic neurinoma cases requiring secondary mastoidectomy for csf leakage from 16% to 5%.
prognostic value of immunocytologic detection of bone marrow metastases in neuroblastoma. background. morphologic evaluation of bone marrow for neuroblastoma cells is a routine and important component of clinical staging. specific immunostaining of malignant cells with monoclonal antibodies should be more sensitive, however, and may improve the detection of metastases and provide additional prognostic information. methods. we looked for tumor cells in bone marrow from 197 patients with newly diagnosed neuroblastoma, using immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies (immunocytologic analysis) and examination of smears and specimens obtained by trephine biopsy (conventional analysis). results. routine smears and trephine-biopsy specimens were positive for tumor cells in 46 percent of the patients, whereas 67 percent were positive on immunocytologic analysis (p less than 0.0001). immunocytologic analysis detected bone marrow metastases in 34 percent of patients considered to have only localized or regional disease (stage i, ii, or iii). it also identified tumor cells that were not detected by conventional analysis in patients with widespread disease (stage iv or ivs). tumor content, as determined by immunocytologic analysis, predicted clinical outcome in relation to the age of the patient at diagnosis. patients with stage ii or iii disease diagnosed after one year of age who did not have occult marrow metastases did well, whereas those with metastases did poorly (p = 0.006). patients in whom stage iv disease was diagnosed before they were one year of age did well if bone marrow metastases were few or absent, but had poor survival if the marrow contained more than 0.02 percent tumor cells (p = 0.03). conclusions. immunocytologic analysis of bone marrow aspirates is more sensitive than conventional analysis in detecting tumor cells and provides prognostic information. the relations among marrow metastases, age at diagnosis, and clinical outcome illustrate the biologic heterogeneity of neuroblastoma.
iliofemoral arterial complications of balloon angioplasty for systemic obstructions in infants and children the medical and radiological records of 64 consecutive infants and children who underwent transfemoral balloon dilation of the aorta or aortic valve were reviewed to determine the incidence, nature, and post-treatment outcome of acute iliofemoral complications. balloon dilation angioplasty or balloon valvotomy was performed with 8f and 9f catheters without an arterial sheath. patients ranged in age from 5 days to 15.4 years (mean, 6.4 years). of 64 patients, 29 (45.3%) had an acute iliofemoral complication, including thrombosis (18 of 64), complete disruption (five of 64), incomplete disruption (three of 64), and arterial tear (three of 64). the arterial pathology was confirmed in 23 of 29 patients by one or a combination of surgical exploration and repair (18 of 29), angiography (six of 29), and magnetic resonance imaging (three of 29). of eight patients, three with arterial disruption had acute hypotension requiring transfusion and immediate surgery; the other five had absent pedal pulses after the procedure. of these five, three developed bleeding during thrombolytic therapy and underwent surgical exploration, and two were diagnosed by angiography after ineffective thrombolytic therapy. angiography in three patients with iliac artery avulsion showed tapered occlusion in two and an aneurysm in one. in patients with iliofemoral thrombosis, angiography showed occlusion from the puncture site to the origin of the external iliac artery. eleven patients (17% of the entire group and 38% of the group with acute iliofemoral complications) had reduced or absent pedal pulses at the time of discharge. a significant correlation was found between increased incidence of iliofemoral thrombosis and disruption (as well as abnormal pedal pulses at hospital discharge) and low patient weight.
prevalence of coronary heart disease in scotland: scottish heart health study data from 10,359 men and women aged 40-59 years from 22 districts in the scottish heart health study were used to describe the prevalence rates of coronary heart disease in scotland in 1984-1986 and their relation to the geographical variation in mortality in these districts. prevalence was measured by previous history, rose chest pain questionnaire, and the minnesota code of a 12 lead resting electrocardiogram. the prevalence of coronary heart disease in scotland was high compared with studies from other countries that used the same standardised methods. a history of angina was more common in men (5.5%) than in women (3.9%), though in response to the rose questionnaire 8.5% of women and 6.3% of men reported chest pain. a history of myocardial infarction was three times more common in men than women, as was a q/qs pattern on the electrocardiogram. there were significant correlations between the different measures of coronary prevalence. district measures of angina correlated well with mortality from coronary heart disease, and these correlations tended to be stronger in women than in men. there was no significant correlation between mortality from coronary heart disease and measures of myocardial infarction. the study provides data on the prevalence of coronary heart disease in men and women that are valuable for the planning of cardiological services.
the case against childhood cholesterol screening because some authorities have proposed blood cholesterol screening for children to prevent coronary heart disease, we reviewed published studies to estimate the potential risks and benefits of such screening. childhood cholesterol levels are a poor predictor of high cholesterol levels in young adulthood and will be an even poorer predictor of coronary heart disease later in life. there is no evidence that blood cholesterol levels can be lowered more easily in children than in adults, and it seems unlikely that cholesterol reduction in childhood will be much more effective at preventing coronary heart disease than cholesterol reduction begun in middle age. screening and interventions to lower blood cholesterol levels for millions of children would be expensive, could lead to labeling and family conflicts, and may cause malnutrition and increased noncardiovascular mortality. because the benefits of cholesterol screening are unlikely to exceed these risks, we conclude that children should not be screened for high blood cholesterol levels.
epidural anaesthesia for labour and caesarean section in a parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries. we describe a case of a 29-year-old parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries who had lumbar epidural analgesia/anaesthesia with a local anaesthetic for labour, emergency caesarean section and postoperative pain. her outcome and that of her baby was successful. the anaesthetic techniques used in other parturients with similar congenital cardiac anomalies are reviewed.
acute promyelocytic leukemia: impact of hemorrhagic complications on response to induction chemotherapy and survival. from 1976 to 1989, 21 adult patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia were seen at the university of virginia hospital. we reviewed their cases retrospectively to determine the impact of hemorrhagic complications and other factors on treatment outcome. we observed a complete remission rate of 35%; the median survival in complete responders was 15 months. evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was found in 13 (62%) of the 21 cases at diagnosis. fatal intracranial hemorrhage was the leading cause of death, occurring in eight (40%) of the 20 patients evaluated. initial leukocyte count greater than 4.0 x 10(9)/l and platelet count less than 20 x 10(9)/l were significantly associated with an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. in patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation, the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was reduced by treatment with heparin. the high mortality of 40% (8/20) due to intracranial hemorrhage during induction was a major contributor to the low complete remission rate of 35% (7/20) in this series of consecutive unselected patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia.
a systemic non-lytic state and local thrombolytic failure of anistreplase (anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex, apsac) in acute myocardial infarction. the relation between coronary thrombolysis and coagulation variables after administration of anistreplase (anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex, apsac) was studied in patients with an acute myocardial infarction. fifty eight consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction were given 30 u of anistreplase intravenously within 4 hours of the onset of symptoms. a fall in the plasma concentration fibrinogen to less than 1.0 g/l 90 minutes after administration of anistreplase was considered to reflect a systemic lytic state. coronary angiography was performed 48 hours after thrombolytic treatment. the overall patency rate was 74% (43/58). patency rates were significantly different in patients with a systemic lytic (83% (43/52)) and a systemic non-lytic state (0% (0/6)). the absence of a systemic lytic state after anistreplase administration seemed to be highly predictive of the failure of coronary thrombolysis. coagulation studies showed evidence of inhibition of anistreplase induced fibrinolytic activity which may explain the failure of thrombolytic treatment in patients with evidence of a systemic non-lytic state.
ultrastructural changes in rat hearts following cold cardioplegic ischemia of differing duration and differing modes of reperfusion. morphologic consequences of prolonged global hypothermic (15 degrees c), cardioplegic ischemia and two reperfusion techniques were studied in langendorff-perfused rat hearts. a 'gentle' reperfusion technique, with gradual rise in perfusate temperature and pressure to physiologic levels over 30 min, was used for 12 hearts following 2-hour or 3 1/2-hour (6 in each group) ischemia. abrupt reperfusion, with perfusate at 37 degrees c and 70 mmhg, was performed on 13 hearts (6 ischemic for 2 hours and 7 for 3 1/2 hours). six nonischemic, perfused hearts served as controls. randomly selected specimens from the left ventricle after 45-60 min reperfusion were prepared for transmission electron microscopy. volume fractions of myocardial structural components were calculated from stereologic point-counting on the electron micrographs. two-way analysis of variance revealed that interstitial edema developed with increasing ischemic time and was not influenced by reperfusion technique. the degree of endothelial damage was independent of ischemic time, but was lessened by 'gentle' reperfusion. both mitochondrial injury and myocyte edema were less when perfusate temperature and pressure were slowly raised after 3 1/2-hour ischemia.
the mec-4 gene is a member of a family of caenorhabditis elegans genes that can mutate to induce neuronal degeneration three dominant mutations of mec-4, a gene needed for mechanosensation, cause the touch-receptor neurons of caenorhabditis elegans to degenerate. with deg-1, another c. elegans gene that can mutate to induce neuronal degeneration and that is similar in sequence, mec-4 defines a new gene family. cross-hybridizing sequences are detectable in other species, raising the possibility that degenerative conditions in other organisms may be caused by mutations in similar genes. all three dominant mec-4 mutations affect the same amino acid. effects of amino-acid substitutions at this position suggest that steric hindrance may induce the degenerative state.
systemic and renal production of thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin in decompensated liver disease and hepatorenal syndrome. to assess the role of altered renal and systemic production of thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin in the hepatorenal syndrome, urinary excretion of their major renal and extrarenal metabolites was measured in patients with compensated and decompensated liver disease, chronic renal failure, and hepatorenal syndrome. urinary excretion rates of all prostanoids (renal and extrarenal) were increased in subjects with liver disease compared with normal controls. moreover, they were considerably higher in subjects with severe hepatic decompensation but good renal function compared with those with hepatorenal syndrome. in contrast, the excretion rate of all metabolites was reduced in patients with chronic renal failure. the excretion rate of all metabolites was markedly elevated during the early stages of hepatorenal syndrome and decreased in parallel with creatinine clearance. when corrected for creatinine clearance, there was a strong correlation between prostanoid excretion and serum bilirubin in subjects with liver disease; there was no difference, however, in the excretion of renal and extrarenal prostanoids between hepatorenal syndrome and severe hepatic decompensation. it is concluded that hepatic decompensation is associated with a progressive increase in prostanoid excretion but that changes in production of prostacyclin or thromboxane a2 are unlikely to be major factors in the pathogenesis of the hepatorenal syndrome.
lung vascular injury after administration of viable hemolysin-forming escherichia coli in isolated rabbit lungs. escherichia coli hemolysin, a transmembrane pore-forming exotoxin, is considered an important virulence factor. in the present study, the possible significance of hemolysin production was investigated in a model of septic lung failure through infusion of viable bacteria in isolated rabbit lungs; 10(4) to 10(7) e. coli/ml perfusate caused a dose- and time-dependent appearance of hemolysin, accompanied by release of potassium, thromboxane a2, and pgi2 into the perfusate. concomitantly, marked pulmonary hypertension developed. inhibitor studies suggested that the pressor response was predominantly mediated by pulmonary thromboxane generation. administration of hemolysin-forming e. coli additionally caused a protracted, dose-dependent increase in the lung capillary filtration coefficient, followed by severe edema formation. the permeability increase was independent of lung prostanoid generation. an e. coli strain that releases an inactive form of hemolysin completely failed to provoke the described biophysical and biochemical responses. preapplication of 2 x 10(8) human granulocytes was without effect in the present experimental model. we conclude that the hemolysin produced by low numbers of e. coli organisms can provoke thromboxane-mediated pulmonary hypertension and severe vascular leakage. e. coli hemolysin and, possibly, other related cytolysins may thus contribute directly to the pathogenesis of acute respiratory failure under conditions of sepsis or pneumonia.
heart weights of white men 20 to 39 years of age. an analysis of 218 autopsy cases. review of autopsy data for 218 white men between 20 and 39 years of age who died of injuries or suddenly and unexpectedly indicated a mean heart weight of 371 g. the mean for those dying of external causes was 364 g whereas the mean for those dying of natural causes was 446 g. a coefficient for heart weight expressed as a percentage of body weight was lower in heavy individuals than lightweight individuals; it ranged between 0.38% and 0.55%, with a mean of 0.48%. heart weight, including epicardial fat, increased with age and body weight. these data may be useful to those who are called upon to investigate sudden and unexpected deaths.
chest wall involvement by lung cancer: computed tomographic detection and results of operation. the aim of this prospective study was to evaluate: (1) the role of computed tomographic scanning in predicting chest wall invasion by peripheral lung cancer and (2) the results of operation according to the depth of chest wall involvement and other potential indicators of long-term survival. one hundred twelve patients with non-small cell lung cancer adjacent to the pleural surface who underwent computed tomographic scanning and subsequent thoracotomy were entered into this study. tumor invasion was confined to the visceral pleura in 53 patients, to the parietal pleura in 18 patients, and to intercostal muscles in 25 patients; invasion extended beyond this layer in 16 patients. the computed tomographic criteria for chest wall invasion were (1) obliteration of the extrapleural fat plane, (2) the length of the tumor-pleura contact, (3) the ratio between the tumor-pleura contact and the tumor diameter, (4) the angle of the tumor with the pleura, (5) a mass involving the chest wall, and (6) rib destruction. the computed tomographic criteria 1 and 3 were significantly related to pathologic findings. sensitivity was 85% for criterion 1 and 83% for criterion 3, specificity being 87% and 80%, respectively. long-term survival of patients with t3 disease critically depended on the lymph node state and completeness of resection. the adenocarcinoma cell type and the t4 category were unfavorable prognostic factors. the depth of chest wall invasion did not affect survival, except for extensive rib and soft tissue infiltration. en bloc resection yielded better results than discontinuous resection.
high survival rate in advanced-stage b-cell lymphomas and leukemias without cns involvement with a short intensive polychemotherapy: results from the french pediatric oncology society of a randomized trial of 216 children. from april 1984 to december 1987, the french pediatric oncology society (sfop) organized a randomized trial for advanced-stage b-cell lymphoma without cns involvement to study the possibility of reducing the length of treatment to 4 months. after receiving the same three intensive six-drug induction courses based on high-dose fractionated cyclophosphamide, high-dose methotrexate (hd mtx), and cytarabine in continuous infusion, patients were evaluated for remission. those who achieved complete remission (cr) were randomized between a long arm (five additional courses with two additional drugs; 16 weeks of treatment) and a short arm (two additional courses; 5 weeks). for patients in partial remission (pr), intensification of treatment was indicated. two hundred sixteen patients were registered: 15 stage ii nasopharyngeal and extensive facial tumors, 167 stage iii, and 34 stage iv, 20 of the latter having more than 25% blast cells in bone marrow. the primary sites of involvement were abdomen in 172, head and neck in 30, thorax in two, and other sites in 12. one hundred sixty-seven patients are alive in first cr with a minimum follow-up of 18 months; four are lost to follow-up. eight patients died from initial treatment failure, 14 died from toxicity or deaths unrelated to tumor or treatment, and 27 relapsed. the event-free survival (efs), with a median follow-up of 38 months, is 78% (se 3) for all the patients, 73% (se 11) for the stage ii patients, 80% (se 3) for the stage iii patients, and 68% (se 8) for the stage iv and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) patients. one hundred sixty-six patients were randomized: 82 in the short arm and 84 in the long arm. efs is, respectively, 89% and 87%. statistical analysis confirms equivalence of both treatment arms with regard to efs. moreover, morbidity was lower in the short arm. this study confirms the high survival rate obtained in the previous lmb 0281 study without radiotherapy or debulking surgery and demonstrates the effectiveness of short treatment.
bacteriology of the ethmoid bullae in children with chronic sinusitis. cultures from 105 children with chronic sinusitis who had failed aggressive medical management were retrospectively studied. patients with immunodeficiency and cystic fibrosis were excluded from the study. because the most common sites of disease were the infundibula and anterior ethmoid sinuses, samples of mucosa removed from the anterior ethmoid bullae during endoscopic ethmoidectomy were routinely cultured for aerobic and anaerobic organisms. fungal cultures were performed for 55 bullae. the principal organisms isolated were alpha-hemolytic streptococcus, staphylococcus aureus, moraxella catarrhalis, streptococcus pneumoniae, and haemophilus influenzae non-type b. only 12 anaerobic organisms and four fungi were isolated. of the 204 bullae cultured, multiple organisms were found in 61 bullae and 40 showed no growth. isolates of other less common organisms were also found. these data are analyzed on the basis of age and duration of symptoms, and antibiotic treatment is described.
cereal-based oral rehydration therapy. ii. strategic issues for its implementation in national diarrheal disease control programs. field studies in bangladesh demonstrated that after proper training, village mothers were able to prepare and use rice-based, salt-enriched oral rehydration solutions containing safe concentrations of sodium, and were capable of achieving significantly fewer treatment failures and a reduction in the duration of diarrhea than with glucose-based oral rehydration solutions (ors). an additional longitudinal study showed that improved growth and weight gain occurred with the consistent use of ors; the effect was greater when rice-based ors were used. in addition, the following possible limitations and benefits of cereal-based oral rehydration therapy, which are relevant to the strategies for its implementation in national diarrheal disease control programs, are discussed: safety, osmolarity, hypernatremia, spoiling, effectiveness, rehydration ability, reduction in diarrhea volume and duration, nutritional effects, effect on food intake, acceptance and usage by care givers, training of health workers, self-reliance of families, effect on other child survival activities, costs, potential problems in changing to cereal-based ors, and the role of industrial production in packaged cereal-based ors.
accidental death from a black-powder rifle breech plug. authentic black-powder muzzle-loader weapons and replicas are used today primarily for hunting game such as deer and hogs. the following is a case presentation of accidental death from cerebral trauma caused by a .45-caliber black-powder-rifle breech plug implanting in the victim's brain.
effects of medical and surgical treatment on cerebral perfusion and cognition in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia. the effects of medical treatment with and without cerebral revascularization procedures on cognition and cerebral blood flow were compared among 36 patients with extracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease and cognitive impairments. three comparable groups were studied. the first group (n = 18) received only medical treatment by control of risk factors for stroke (including hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia) and antiplatelet aggregant medication. the second group (n = 10) had the same medical treatment plus superficial temporal-to-middle cerebral artery bypass, and the third group had the same medical treatment plus carotid endarterectomy. regional cerebral blood flow and cognition were monitored in all three treatment groups over a 3-year interval. all groups showed stabilization without expected rates of decline for both cerebral blood flow and cognition, but no statistically significant differences emerged among the treatment groups.
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites. spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella is uncommon. we report three patients with ascites infected by salmonella. all three patients had advanced chronic liver disease, typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension. salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients. there was no clinical or microbiological evidence of salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid. one patient died before antibiotic treatment was started, but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs. one of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization, and the other survived.
randomized trials in the study of antihypertensive drugs. heterogeneity in response to antihypertensive drugs can be addressed by randomized trials in individual subjects. in such a trial a patient receives pairs of treatment periods (one period of each pair active drug, one matched placebo, in random order); patient and clinician are blinded to allocation, and treatment targets are monitored. these trials can optimize antihypertensive therapy in clinical practice and facilitate the investigation of new drugs and the study of pathophysiology. such trials also have potential in helping decide whether common, nonspecific symptoms reported by patients are really drug related.
acute cholangitis. cholangitis is an infection of the biliary ductal system that results from the combination of bactibilia and biliary obstruction. choledocholithiasis has been the leading cause of cholangitis. however, in recent years, especially at tertiary referral centers, nonoperative biliary manipulations, often in patients with unresectable malignancies, have become the most common cause of cholangitis. as a result, the complete triad of fever and chills, jaundice, and abdominal pain, as originally described by charcot, is now seen less frequently. most patients still have leukocytosis and abnormal liver function tests, but many patients with indwelling tubes may develop cholangitis without significant jaundice. e. coli, klebsiella species, and the enterococci remain the most frequently isolated organisms, and anaerobes including bacteroides fragilis are recovered in 15% to 30% of patients. however, enterobacter and pseudomonas species, as well as yeasts, are now being isolated more frequently from patients with indwelling tubes, who often have been treated previously with antibiotics. computed cholangiography usually is necessary to determine the cause and site of biliary obstruction. in the majority of patients with cholangitis, cholangiography can be delayed until the patient has been afebrile for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours. initial therapy includes bowel rest, intravenous fluids, and antibiotics. many antibiotic regimens are now available to cover the gram-negative aerobes, the enterococcus, and the anaerobes that are likely to be causing the biliary infection. the combination of a penicillin and an aminoglycoside has been the gold standard. however, recent studies suggest that the newer broad-spectrum penicillins provide adequate therapy for these patients. only a small percentage (5%-10%) of patients with toxic cholangitis require emergency biliary decompression. the choice of percutaneous or endoscopic drainage should be made on the basis of the presumed site and cause of obstruction as well as local expertise. the nature of the biliary obstruction may be the most important determinant of outcome. at present, patients with end-stage malignant obstruction account for most of the deaths, whereas approximately 95% of patients survive an episode of cholangitis.
management of the acute abdomen complicating oral anticoagulation therapy. acute abdominal pain in the patient receiving oral anticoagulants poses a difficult diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. we describe two cases of peritonitis requiring laparotomy in anticoagulated patients, and review 49 similar case reports from the world literature. these patients were usually explored for signs of bowel obstruction. at operation, the intestine often appeared infarcted, but pathologic examination commonly revealed intramural hematomata. in contrast, we present microscopic evidence of hemorrhagic cecal infarction complicating oral anticoagulation therapy in one patient. intramural intestinal hemorrhage is the most common cause of acute abdominal pain in the anticoagulated patient who undergoes laparotomy. in addition to intramural hemorrhage, 14 per cent of patients had coexistent volvulus, appendicitis, intestinal wall disruption or intestinal infarction. we conclude that anticoagulated patients with suspected intramural intestinal hemorrhage may have severe intraabdominal pathology requiring operation. therefore, operation is mandatory for patients who fail to improve after a short course of expectant management.
cardiorespiratory effects of endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy. endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (evs) is an effective means of controlling variceal hemorrhage, which develops as a consequence of portal hypertension. while esophageal perforation, ulceration, strictures, and mediastinitis are potential complications associated with this procedure, it is not clear whether isolated pleuropulmonary events such as pleuritis, pneumonitis, and adult respiratory distress syndrome are causally related to the evs. endoscopy and sedation with the attendant risk of aspiration, particularly in the background of hepatic encephalopathy, may account for some of these events. recent controlled studies of respiratory function demonstrate that evs as such results in minor changes in gas exchange, lung volumes, and pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics. most pulmonary complications have been reported with the use of sodium morrhuate sclerosant. comparative studies among different sclerosants are necessary to evaluate relative safety. finally, there have been rare reports of myocardial ischemia and pericarditis reported in association with evs, but these are of a transient nature. chest symptoms, roentgenographic pleuropulmonary changes, pulmonary hemodynamics, and cardiac perturbations are transient and should not preclude offering evs to patients with variceal hemorrhage.
vasopressin-related bullous disease of the legs. we report a 33-year-old man who developed cutaneous necrosis of the lower extremities with extensive bulla formation after i.v. administration of vasopressin for the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices. due to its potent nonselective vasoconstrictive action, vasopressin not only may induce cardiac and gastrointestinal ischemia, but cutaneous ischemia as well. as in our patient, this may lead to extensive necrotic skin lesions at sites distant from the infusion.
long-term prognosis of myocardial ischemia detected by holter monitoring in peripheral vascular disease. to assess the long-term prognostic significance of myocardial ischemia, as measured by ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, in patients with occlusive peripheral arterial disease, 176 eligible patients scheduled for elective peripheral arterial surgery at brigham and women's hospital were prospectively studied. all patients were monitored preoperatively without alterations to baseline medications. prospective follow-up was obtained during routine medical care as provided by blinded, independent physicians and by subsequent telephone contact with the patients. thirty-two patients (18%) had a total of 75 episodes of myocardial ischemia, 73 (97%) of which were asymptomatic. during a mean follow-up period of 615 days, there were 9 cardiac deaths, 1 occurring in-hospital after peripheral vascular surgery, and 13 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 4 occurring in-hospital after peripheral vascular surgery. cardiac events occurred in 12 of 32 patients with ischemia (38%), including 6 cardiac deaths, and in 10 of 144 patients without ischemia (7%), including 3 cardiac deaths (risk ratio 5.4, 95% confidence interval 2.6 to 11.4). the sensitivity of ischemia was 55%, the specificity was 87%, the positive predictive value was 38%, and the negative predictive value was 93%. in a multivariate cox proportional-hazards model controlling for age, gender, coronary risk factors, history of angina, myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease and antianginal medications, the presence of ischemia was the only independent predictor of outcome. in patients with peripheral arterial disease, who often are unable to perform adequate exercise testing, ambulatory monitoring for myocardial ischemia is a significant independent predictor of 1- to 2-year prognosis.
an effective treatment protocol for intraarterial drug injection. between 1972 and 1988, 48 patients with extremity ischemia after an intraarterial drug injection were treated with the following protocol: heparin, dextran 40, dexamethasone, elevation, and early mobilization of the extremity. a tissue ischemia score, derived by assessing the color, capillary refill, sensory function, and temperature of the extremity, was used to assess the ischemic injury. each sign was scored either normal = 0 or abnormal = 1; then summed to provide the tissue ischemia score (range, 0 to 4). twenty-four (50%) patients had an extremity tissue ischemia score less than or equal to 2. after treatment 22 of the 24 patients had a normal extremity, and 2 required limited digital amputations. in this group, outcome was comparable regardless of the time interval from intraarterial drug injection to treatment. ten of 24 (50%) patients with an extremity tissue ischemia score greater than 2 had a normal extremity, 3 had a functional deficit, and 11 required digital amputations. twelve of the 24 patients were treated within 24 hours and had a significantly superior outcome when compared to the 12 who were treated more than 24 hours after intraarterial drug injection (p less than 0.001, fisher's exact test). the tissue ischemia score is a useful predictor of extremity outcome in patients with intraarterial drug injection. the outlined treatment protocol is effective in minimizing tissue injury caused by intraarterial drug injection. institution of treatment within 24 hours of intraarterial drug injection is particularly important in patients who manifest severe ischemia.
hemodynamic effects of h2-receptor antagonists. histamine h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage. these agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions; however, hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted. clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients. ranitidine, also studied in this setting, does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes. the newer h2ras, famotidine and nizatidine, have not been evaluated in critically ill patients.
multiplexing studies of effects of rapid atrial pacing on the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter in canine pericarditis model. background. we report that rapid atrial pacing interrupts atrial flutter when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse is blocked in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit. to characterize the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter and rapid pacing, we studied 11 episodes of induced atrial flutter, mean cycle length 157 +/- 20 msec, in eight dogs with sterile pericarditis. methods and results. atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the interruption of atrial flutter by rapid atrial pacing, mean cycle length 139 +/- 21 msec. areas of slow conduction during atrial flutter were demonstrated at one to three sites in the reentry circuit. after rapid pacing captured the reentry circuit, one area of slow conduction either disappeared (10 episodes) or the degree of slow conduction in an area of slow conduction decreased (one episode). both changes were in association with activation of the region by a wave front from the pacing impulse that arrived from a direction different than that during the induced atrial flutter. interruption of atrial flutter during rapid pacing occurred when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse blocked in an area of slow conduction that had either newly evolved during rapid pacing (seven episodes) or that was previously present (four episodes). conclusions. areas of slow conduction present during atrial flutter and rapid pacing of atrial flutter are functional and depend on both the atrial rate and the direction of the circulating wave fronts. interruption of atrial flutter by rapid pacing results from block of the orthodromic wave front of the pacing impulse in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit.
risk factors for multiorgan failure: a case-control study. the aim of this study was to identify factors associated with multiple organ failure (mof), and assess possible interactions between the risk factors identified as such. we studied 40 mof cases and 120 controls, out of all the surgery and trauma patients who needed intensive care at our institution in a 24-month period. the univariate analyses showed that age, hypovolemic shock, massive volume administration (mva), sepsis, and time of evolution before arriving to the hospital (te) were significantly associated with mof. logistic regression analysis showed that neither age nor mva were independently associated with mof after adjusting for all of the other variables. interactions seemed to be present between age, sepsis, and shock. we conclude that in our surgery and trauma icu adult patient population, hypovolemic shock, sepsis, and te are independent risk factors for mof. the importance of the association between shock and sepsis is discussed, as well as the possible relevance of te as a risk factor.
localization and surgical treatment of occult insulinomas. management of patients with biochemical evidence of insulinoma and negative preoperative imaging studies (occult) tumors is controversial, varying from primarily medical management to aggressive, blind nearly total pancreatectomy to extirpate the tumor. since 1982, 12 consecutive patients with occult insulinoma underwent preoperative portal venous sampling (pvs) for insulin followed by surgical exploration with intraoperative ultrasound (ious). eleven of twelve patients (92%) had insulinoma removed and were cured. portal venous sampling correctly predicted the location of the insulinoma in 9 patients (75%) and that no tumor would be found in another patient. a fourfold insulin gradient in the pancreatic tail of one patient correctly predicted that a distal pancreatectomy would remove the insulinoma despite the fact that neither palpation nor ious identified any tumor. intraoperative ultrasound was the single best method to identify occult tumors because it correctly identified 10 of 11 insulinomas that were found, including five pancreatic head tumors that were not palpable. palpation identified five insulinomas. of the 10 tumors that were identified during operation by palpation or ultrasound, ious identified significantly more (100% versus 50%, p = 0.03) and guided the successful enucleation of each. the results support the strategy of preoperative pvs and operation with ious to localize and remove insulinoma in patients with occult tumors. most tumors (75%) will be correctly localized to a specific pancreatic region by preoperative pvs and identified by ious (83%), allowing simple enucleation and biochemical correction of hypoglycemia. morbid blind pancreatic resections are no longer indicated and long-term medical management of hypoglycemia should be reserved for the occasional patient (8%) who fails preoperative pvs and operation guided by ious.
renal disease in chronic arthritis of childhood. a study of urinary n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta 2-microglobulin excretion. urinalyses of randomly obtained samples from children with various types of chronic arthritis revealed proteinuria in 2.3% of patients, hemoglobinuria in 3.5%, erythrocyturia in 4.1%, and leukocyturia in 5.3%; these frequencies are within the range found by screening school children. however, raised urinary levels of n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and/or beta 2-microglobulin (both sensitive measures of renal tubular damage) were found more frequently in children with chronic arthritis than in controls (p less than 0.0001). abnormalities of either n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase or beta 2-microglobulin excretion were associated with active arthritis as measured by physician global estimate of disease activity, with a polyarticular onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, and with the use of slow-acting antirheumatic drugs or the concurrent use of more than 1 nonsteroidal antiinflamtory drug. abnormal renal tubular function appears to be common in chronic arthritis of childhood. the long-term consequences of this abnormality remain to be elucidated.
role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis--diagnostic value of nasal challenge with allergen. the role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis without an air-fluid level was studied in 37 patients. seventy-three nasal provocation tests with various inhalant allergens were performed in 37 patients by means of rhinomanometry, and maxillary sinus radiographs were performed before and repeatedly after the allergen challenge. forty-one positive nasal responses (nrs) occurred in 29 patients; 13 were immediate only, 18 were late only, and 10 nrs were dual responses. of these responses, 32 demonstrated radiographic changes, primarily an increase in mucosal edema and/or opacification. these responses were accompanied by increased pressure in the maxillary sinuses, acute headache, and sometimes otalgia. eight patients did not develop any nrs; however, increased thickening of the mucosal membrane of the maxillary sinuses, accompanied by subjective symptoms, was recorded in three of these nonresponders. these results demonstrate the role of nasal allergy in some patients with chronic maxillary sinusitis, which may affect the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to this disorder.
the use of obstetric analgesia in sweden 1983-1986 the use of obstetric analgesia was investigated in a swedish population-based prospective study of 335,207 births, which represents almost all women who had vaginal deliveries in sweden between 1983 and 1986. lumbar epidural analgesia (eda) was used in 16%, paracervical block (pcb) in 12%, pethidine or morphine in 49% and pudendal block in 62%. all four types of analgesia were much more commonly used by nulliparae than multiparae. variables such as maternal age, smoking, nationality, relationship with the infant's father and gestational age had only moderate influence on the rates of different types of analgesia. eda and pcb were more frequently used in larger than in smaller hospitals and in the daytime than at night. no such differences were found for pethidine or morphine, or pudendal block, which were administered routinely by midwives.
surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with extensive intracaval involvement using a venous bypass system suitable for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass. renal cell carcinoma involves the vena cava in approximately 4% of the patients. presently surgical extirpation is the only form of therapy that can result in cure. recently management of extensive vena caval involvement has involved the use of cardiopulmonary bypass with circulatory arrest and hypothermia. we describe a technique using a venous bypass pump system (femoral vein to right atrium) for resection of renal cell carcinoma with suprahepatic vena caval extension (type ii), which avoids the risks and complications of cardiac arrest and hypothermia but allows for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass should the intraoperative need arise.
obstructive jaundice: use of expandable metal endoprosthesis for biliary drainage. work in progress. expandable metal endoprostheses were implanted transhepatically in 61 patients with obstructive jaundice. fifty-three patients had malignant and eight had benign obstructions. because of the small diameter of the compressed stent (7 f), primary implantation of the stent without a previous catheter drainage was preferred. postprocedural complications occurred in three patients (5%) (biliary pleuritis, peritonitis, hepatic artery aneurysm). the 30-day mortality rate was 8.2%. reocclusions were observed in six of the patients with malignant obstructions (11%) (observation period, 1-10 months; mean, 4.5 months) and in two of the patients with benign stenoses (25%) (observation period, 3-21 months; mean, 9 months). the higher reocclusion rate of benign obstructions must be interpreted with care because of the small number of patients. from their preliminary experience, the authors conclude that expandable metal endoprostheses offer patency rates equal to those of plastic stents. the implantation trauma is reduced due to the small 7-f introducing catheter system.
clinical and pathological findings in prostates following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin instillations. the prostates of 36 patients who were treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin were evaluated by digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasonography. when abnormal palpatory and/or ultrasonographic findings were detected, core needle biopsies from the suspicious areas were performed. of the 36 patients 20 underwent biopsies of the prostate. pathological findings revealed typical granulomas in 8 patients (3 caseating and 5 noncaseating multifocal granulomas). nonspecific chronic prostatitis was noted in 4 patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia was noted in 8. the number of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ranged from 6 to 19. the interval from initiation of therapy to biopsy ranged from 1.5 to 14.5 months. caseating granulomas were found during the early course of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations (1.5 to 3.0 months), whereas noncaseating granulomas were detected at later stages (4 to 14.5 months). these findings present a high incidence of granuloma formation in patients treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin. the duration of therapy is a determinant factor in the induction of granuloma type.
evidence for hypomotility in non-ulcer dyspepsia: a prospective multifactorial study. a prospective multifactorial study of symptoms and disturbance of gastrointestinal function has been undertaken in 50 patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia. objective tests including solid meal gastric emptying studies, gastric acid secretion, e-hida scintiscan for enterogastric bile reflux, and hydrogen breath studies were carried out in all patients and validated against control data. gastroscopy and biopsy were carried out in non-ulcer dyspepsia patients only. non-ulcer dyspepsia patients were categorised on the basis of predominant symptoms as: dysmotility-like dyspepsia (n = 22); essential dyspepsia (n = 14), gastro-oesophageal reflux-like dyspepsia (n = 11); and ulcer-like dyspepsia (n = 3). in the total non-ulcer dyspepsia population, solid meal gastric emptying was delayed (t50 mean (sem) = 102 (6) minutes (patients) v 64 (6) minutes (controls), (p less than 0.01) and high incidences of gastritis (n = 26) and helicobacter pyloridis infection (n = 18) were found. an inverse correlation was observed between solid meal gastric emptying and fasting peak acid output (r = -0.4; p less than 0.01). indeed gastric emptying was particularly prolonged in eight patients (t50 mean (sem) = 139 (15) minutes) with hypochlorhydria. in the non-ulcer dyspepsia population oral to caecal transit time of a solid meal was delayed (mean sem = 302 (14) minutes (patients) v 244 (12) minutes (controls) (p less than 0.01]. seven patients had a dual peak of breath hydrogen suggestive of small bowel bacterial overgrowth. no association was observed between symptoms and any of the objective abnormalities.
recurrent peritonitis: evidence for possible viral etiology. a 45-year-old woman who was treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) developed recurrent peritonitis characterized by cloudy effluents, elevated white blood cell (wbc) counts (predominantly lymphocytes), and negative culture results. this case report suggests that she may have had viral peritonitis as indicated by a positive viral culture, the presence of viral antibodies in serum and peritoneal dialysis effluent (pde), hematological findings, and cell surface receptor studies. the possibility of a viral cause should be considered in patients with culture-negative peritonitis, especially if they do not respond to antibiotics.
rectus abdominis muscle flap with microvascular anastomoses for repair of recurrent sarcoma. after radical resection of a recurrent leiomyosarcoma, the thoracic wall was stabilized with a gore-tex graft. the skin and soft tissue defect was repaired with a large rectus abdominis flap in which the circulation was secured by end-to-end microvascular anastomosis of the inferior epigastric artery to the internal mammary artery, which had to be cut during tumor removal.
multiple cranial nerve deficits after ethylene glycol poisoning. we report the cases of two patients who developed cranial nerve palsies after drinking ethylene glycol. a 33-year-old man developed multiple cranial nerve deficits nine days after the ingestion of ethylene glycol in a suicide attempt. clinical findings included profound bilateral cranial nerve vii palsies and severe dysfunction of cranial nerves ix and x. the neuropathy occurred despite treatment with hemodialysis. the dysphagia completely cleared within two weeks, but at six months a severe bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction persisted. a 22-year-old man undergoing hemodialysis for ethylene glycol-induced renal failure developed bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction 14 days after ingestion. at a three-month follow-up, the patient demonstrated only moderate functional recovery. the etiology of the cranial nerve deficits is unknown but may be related to oxalate crystal deposition of ethylene glycol-induced pyridoxine dysfunction.
intraabdominal hemorrhage as a result of segmental mediolytic arteritis of an omental artery: case report. this article describes the fifth reported case of segmental mediolytic arteritis and the second in a survivor. the patient had intraabdominal bleeding as a result of a ruptured omental artery. the pathologic and arteriographic findings are described. the pathology is characterized by segmental disruption of the medial smooth muscle cells and the initiation of mediolysis. mediolysis is associated with marked segmental thinning of the vessel wall, often with only the adventitia intact. fibrin is deposited at the adventitial and medial surfaces, and hemorrhage into the media may occur. as in this reported case, lysis of the adventitia leads to sudden, often catastrophic intraabdominal hemorrhage. little associated adventitial inflammation occurred. segmental mediolytic arteritis seems to involve the intra-abdominal muscular arteries in elderly patients with nonspecific abdominal symptoms. an angiogram showed patchy areas of narrowing involving ileal, gastroduodenal, and renal arteries that correlated with the pathologic findings observed in the excised omental arteries.
double-blind randomized trial of perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement for femoropopliteal bypass. patients with rest pain or acute peripheral arterial thrombosis are known to have impaired endogenous fibrinolysis, which is associated with an increased risk of early vascular graft thrombosis. this risk is exacerbated by the fibrinolytic shutdown which is known to occur after major surgery. stanozolol, which has been demonstrated to enhance endogenous fibrinolysis, was therefore used in an attempt to prevent this perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown and so enhance graft patency. twenty-seven patients were randomized to receive either 50 mg stanozolol or placebo intramuscularly 24 h before operation, followed by a 6 week course of either 5 mg stanozolol or placebo orally, twice daily. on the second day after operation, 10-11 mbq of autologous 111indium-labelled platelets were injected, with scanning over the graft on the 3 following days. despite using a large depot of stanozolol, significant effects, such as raised plasminogen (p less than 0.001), reduced fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) and reduced euglobulin lysis time (p less than 0.001), were not seen until the seventh day after operation, with maximum benefit at 6 weeks. this was reflected in the 111indium-labelled platelet deposition studies. the placebo group had a progressive increase in platelet deposition on all 3 days. in contrast, those receiving stanozolol showed a lower, static picture of deposition. however, these changes did not attain statistical significance. three patients experienced early graft thrombosis, two in the placebo group and one in the stanozolol group. only an incomplete inhibition of the perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown was achieved. much longer preoperative courses are thus required to allow the maximum effect to be present at the most crucial time. at present, perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement does not appear to be a practical proposition, and we must await the development of new safer and more potent agents.
accelerated transmural gradients of energy compound metabolism resulting from left ventricular hypertrophy. eighteen dogs underwent transmural left ventricular biopsies for adenosine triphosphate and suturing of the noncoronary cusp, creating valvular aortic stenosis. three months after aortic stenosis and the subsequent development of left ventricular hypertrophy, animals underwent repeat transmural left ventricular biopsies followed by total myocardial ischemia at 37 degrees c. left ventricular tissue samples for adenosine triphosphate and lactate levels were determined at 15-minute intervals and compared with 15 control animals. no significant difference between subendocardial and subepicardial adenosine triphosphate levels was found between left ventricular samples taken before left ventricular hypertrophy and 3 months after left ventricular hypertrophy. significant differences in adenosine triphosphate utilization occurred between subendocardial and subepicardial layers in control and left ventricular hypertrophy myocardium, however. the gradient between the subendocardium and the subepicardium was significantly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy (p less than 0.05). significant differences also occurred within the same layer when left ventricular hypertrophy and control groups were compared. during total ischemia, lactate concentration was significantly greater within the subendocardium than within the subepicardium in left ventricular hypertrophy. the onset of ischemic contracture was 48.2 +/- 2.1 minutes in left ventricular hypertrophy versus 62.3 +/- 1.8 minutes in control hearts (p less than 0.01). subendocardial intramyocardial pressure increased significantly earlier than subepicardial in both left ventricular hypertrophy and control hearts. adenosine triphosphate was used, and lactate accumulated more rapidly in animals with a more pronounced hemodynamic gradient. these data show that after left ventricular hypertrophy, adenosine triphosphate stores in the subendocardium and the subepicardium are unchanged from control values, yet the rates of adenosine triphosphate utilization and lactate accumulation during total ischemia are significantly increased. furthermore, the subendocardial to subepicardial gradient of adenosine triphosphate utilization during ischemia found in normal hearts is markedly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy.
chest pain in teenagers. when is it significant? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause. onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain. the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac, musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, and respiratory disorders. routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient's unspoken fear of serious illness. most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness, and symptoms usually resolve without therapy. an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up.
desmopressin in nocturnal enuresis. the effect of intranasal desmopressin on primary nocturnal enuresis was investigated in a study divided into 2 parts in which the first part was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study of 52 finnish school children 5 to 13 years old. a variety of approaches had previously been attempted in most children, including water deprivation, night awakenings, enuresis alarm and imipramine, without success. the patients were randomized to 4 periods of 3 weeks each: 2 periods on placebo and 2 periods on 20 micrograms. desmopressin spray. the entire 12-week treatment period was preceded and followed by control periods (without treatment). the number of dry nights, measured as calculated averages per week, increased significantly (p less than 0.01) from 0.6 dry nights during pre-treatment to 4.3 and 4.6 dry nights per week during the 2 desmopressin treatment periods, respectively. the placebo responses were 2.1 and 2.4 dry nights per week, respectively. the second part of the study was an open dose-finding and drug safety study of a further 3 months in duration. the aim was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of 20, 30 and 40 micrograms. doses. all 47 patients who relapsed during the post-treatment period in part 1 were included. during this period 53% of the patients responded fully, 19% were intermediate responders and 28% did not respond. as reported in other studies most patients suffered relapse after treatment. during continued treatment for 3 months at doses between 20 and 40 micrograms. desmopressin was well tolerated, had no effect on body weight or blood pressure and did not cause any adverse reactions.
'high single-dose' european puva regimen also causes an excess of non-melanoma skin cancer. we report the results of a long-term (12.8 years) follow-up study of the detection of malignant and benign skin tumours in patients with psoriasis, who were treated with puva according to the european, 'high single-dose' regimen. a total of 13 squamous cell carcinomas (scc) and 24 basal cell carcinomas (bcc) were diagnosed in 11 of 260 patients. the incidence of both scc and bcc was increased in comparison with the general dutch population. the ratio of scc to bcc in the general population was 1:8 but was 1:2.5 in our study group. a positive correlation was observed between the development of scc and the total uva dosage, the age of the patient at the start of the puva treatment and a history of arsenic use. this dose-related increase in the incidence of scc, reported in studies from the u.s.a., has not been found in earlier european studies. the average time period between the start of puva therapy and the diagnosis of the first malignant skin tumour was 6.0 years for scc and 4.7 years for bcc. among the 49 benign skin tumours were actinic keratoses, a keratoacanthoma and 'puva keratoses', a newly described hyperkeratotic lesion, especially found in puva-treated patients.
importance of sampling method in dna analysis of lung cancer. lung carcinomas are characterised by considerable histological variation within the tumour. the possible effects of this morphological heterogeneity on the estimation of tumour ploidy were investigated. multiple tissue blocks were systematically taken from 20 lung tumours and analysed by flow cytometry. the routine, archival paraffin wax embedded diagnostic blocks from these cases were also analysed. nineteen (95%) of the tumours were shown to contain aneuploid stemlines by systematic sampling, but if only one of these systematic tissue blocks had been taken from each case the incidence of dna aneuploidy could have been as low as 45%. only 15 (75%) tumours were aneuploid when all the routine archival blocks were analysed, but by specifically selecting tumour areas from the archival material the accuracy of this method was increased to 90%. it is concluded that tumour sampling methods are of primary importance in assessing the dna content of lung tumours. routine paraffin wax embedded archival tissue provides a suitable source of material for this purpose, provided that "turnover" selection is carried out.
medicare peer review organization preprocedure review criteria. an analysis of criteria for three procedures the medicare peer review organization (pro) program includes preprocedure review using explicit criteria to assess the appropriateness of specific procedures. this study evaluates the variability in the pro preprocedure criteria for the three procedures most frequently reviewed by pros: carotid endarterectomy, cataract removal, and cardiac pacemaker implants. in august 1989, the pro review criteria were received from the health care financing administration. to provide a reference point for reviewing the pro criteria, national practice guidelines for these three procedures were identified. wide variability was demonstrated in the pro procedure-specific carotid endarterectomy and cataract removal review criteria among pros, and the criteria differed significantly from the identified practice guidelines. the criteria for cardiac pacemaker implants were somewhat less variable, and were based, to varying degrees, on practice guidelines developed by the american college of cardiology (acc). greater attention is needed to improve the development of review criteria, including the use of relevant practice guidelines, to ensure that review criteria are optimal.
presentation of breast carcinoma as volkmann's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases. metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare. they usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma. we describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and volkmann's type contracture.
locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasms as a cause for recurrent and persistent primary hyperparathyroidism. between 1982 and 1989, 145 patients underwent operations for persistent or recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism (hpt). at re-exploration, 15 patients (10.3%) were found to have locally recurrent parathyroid tumors (11 patients with adenoma and 4 with carcinoma). these 15 patients had 28 previous operations at outside institutions for hpt. patients with locally recurrent hpt secondary to adenoma had a longer disease-free interval than patients with locally recurrent carcinoma. at the time of evaluation at the national institutes of health (nih) for recurrent or persistent hpt, each patient was symptomatic and patients with carcinoma had significantly more symptoms and higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone than patients with adenoma. locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm was correctly localized by preoperative testing in 14 of 15 patients. these 15 patients underwent 18 reoperations at nih for excision of locally recurrent parathyroid tumors. following the final reoperation (two patients had more than one procedure), each patient had normal serum levels of calcium. in addition each patient remains biochemically cured (based on normal serum calcium level), with a median follow-up interval of 21 months. local recurrence of parathyroid adenoma comprises a small but significant proportion of cases of recurrent or persistent hpt and can be indistinguishable from parathyroid carcinoma. findings suggestive of carcinoma include shorter disease-free interval, higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone, and histologic appearance. whether the locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm is benign or malignant, aggressive surgery can control serum levels of calcium in these patients with acceptable rates of morbidity.
traumatic hyphaema: a retrospective study of 314 cases. a retrospective study was made of 314 consecutive cases of traumatic hyphaema in a mixed urban and rural scottish population. secondary haemorrhage occurred in 4.1% of cases and was not associated with a worsening of final visual acuity. there were no identifiable risk factors for secondary haemorrhage. poor visual outcome was in most cases attributable to retinal pathology. the use of antifibrinolytic agents does not appear to be necessary in such a population, and the importance of detecting associated retinal detachment is emphasised.
human papillomavirus screening for women with atypical papanicolaou smears. a study was undertaken to evaluate the utility of human papillomavirus (hpv) dna screening and colposcopy in the management of women whose papanicolaou smears demonstrated atypia less than dysplasia. fifty patients whose initial papanicolaou smears were interpreted as showing atypia less than dysplasia were evaluated for the presence of hpv 16 dna in exfoliated cervicovaginal cells and for histologic findings on biopsy. those 50 patients were compared to two groups of patients: one consisting of 124 patients with biopsy-documented cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and another of 112 patients with normal papanicolaou smears. the presence of hpv 16 dna was confirmed with southern analysis in 46% of patients with atypical papanicolaou smears, 46% with confirmed cin and 11.6% with normal papanicolaou smears. the 50 patients with atypical smears underwent colposcopically directed cervical biopsies, revealing the following results: 14 (28%) had normal histology, 29 (58%) had koilocytosis without dysplasia, and 7 (14%) had cin. hpv 16 dna was present in exfoliated cervicovaginal cells from a large percentage of patients from each category (50% of patients with normal histology, 41.2% with koilocytosis and 57% with cin). hpv 16 dna screening did not predict which patients with atypical smears had underlying cin. colposcopically directed biopsy remains the evaluation method of choice.
intracatheter streptokinase for recurrent peritonitis in capd. intracatheter streptokinase (sk) is advocated as effective treatment with minimal adverse effects in both recurrent bacterial peritonitis and catheter fibrin blockage in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) patients. we reviewed 35 instillations in 20 patients noting a high (86%) side effect profile consisting of fever, onset of turbid dialysis effluent and/or abdominal pain. sk probably releases fibrin clot containing bacteria, leukocytes and debris from the colonized catheter into the peritoneal cavity causing a "peritonitis-like syndrome" of 1 to 3 days duration. fungal peritonitis occurred after sk in 2 patients. failure of sk therapy was encountered in staphylococcus epidermidis infection (p less than 0.05 versus other organisms), which may be related to its protective capsular polysaccharide slime and ability to adhere to plastic prosthetic devices. sk, in this study, was useful treatment in relapsing bacterial peritonitis (50% overall cure) but failed to correct catheter malfunction.
coagulation factor abnormalities as possible thrombotic risk factors after fontan operations. severe thromboembolism occurred in 3 of 37 patients who had undergone fontan-type operations for correction of congenital heart defects several months to years after the operation. the patients were screened for coagulation factor abnormalities to find out whether known prothrombotic risk factors could explain the high frequency of thromboembolism. 63 abnormalities were found in 24 of the 37 patients. the commonest and most pronounced abnormality was deficiency of protein c, a known risk factor. concentrations of antithrombin iii and factors ii and x were significantly lower in protein-c-deficient patients than in those with normal protein c concentrations. these findings suggest that the high thrombotic risk in these patients is caused or at least associated with an imbalance between procoagulant and anticoagulant factors.
mortality and causes of death in crohn's disease. review of 50 years' experience in leiden university hospital. six hundred and seventy one patients (52.5% women) with crohn's disease seen at leiden university hospital between 1934 and 1984 were identified. follow up was 98.2% complete. sixty four (9.7%) of the 659 patients died. the cause of death was related to crohn's disease in 34 patients, probably related to the disease in four, and unrelated, from incidental causes, in 25. the cause of death could not be identified in one patient. there was a significant decrease of deaths related to the disease after 1973. causes of death such as amyloidosis and malnutrition have disappeared and postoperative deaths have decreased. the standardised mortality ratio showed an excess mortality of 2.23 for all patients. it was higher for women (3.30) than for men (1.76). a comparison of two recent 10 year periods showed a significant decrease in standardised mortality ratio in men but not in women. patients whose disease started before the age of 20 years had an excess mortality compared with older patients. this study supports the view that the prognosis of crohn's disease has improved in general but high quality medical and surgical management is important particularly for younger patients.
primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates. primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta was attempted in 10 consecutive neonates (age range 2-23 days). the coarctation site was crossed and the balloon inflated in all but one patient. in two patients with associated severe isthmal hypoplasia there was no change in the gradient after dilatation. in the remainder, the residual gradients were trivial and angiography showed complete relief of coarctation. severe recoarctation developed 5-12 weeks after dilatation in five patients, each considered to have had an excellent initial result. the coarctation was rapidly progressive in three patients in whom doppler studies within two weeks of the development of recoarctation had shown no significant gradient. in the other two patients progressive restenosis was charted by doppler examinations over the course of 6-8 weeks. three patients had a second, initially successful, dilatation procedure. one patient remained well with no residual gradient 18 weeks later. stenosis recurred within eight weeks in the other two, and both have undergone successful surgical repair. balloon dilatation of a native coarctation of the aorta gave excellent immediate results in most neonates. severe isthmal hypoplasia is, however, a contraindication to balloon dilatation and early restenosis is an important problem. these results do not support the continued use of primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates.
detailed examination of complete bioprosthetic heart valves. six (3 control and 3 explanted) bioprostheses were examined histologically after embedding the complete valve in "plastic" and sectioning across the valve at 90 degree to the horizontal plane, and then horizontally across a stent post, with a low speed saw. the prostheses, porcine or pericardial, had been in place 52 to 121 months. in addition to cusp changes of degeneration and calcification that have been previously reported, the authors found extensive pannus deposition on the cloth covering the inflow surface of the prostheses, with some extension onto the biologic components; evidence of insudation of tissue fluid and ingrowth of fibroblasts; deposition of collagen; and infiltration of mononuclear cells in the interstices and interfaces. non-biologic components showed changes which may have affected prosthesis function. the synthetic material covering the metal/plastic frame showed interstitial mononuclear cells. two of the three explanted valves showed changes in the polymeric plastic, and one in the metal components, including accentuated notching along the surfaces when compared to unimplanted prostheses. a larger number of prostheses must be examined before definite conclusions can be drawn.
radiographic detection of recurrent carious lesions associated with composite restorations. the greatest potential problem associated with posterior composite restoration is secondary caries detection. it is essential that secondary caries is detected as early as possible to enhance the prognosis for a successful treatment outcome. this laboratory study evaluated the optimum level of radiopacity of composite materials for radiographic detection of secondary carious lesions associated with composite materials. results indicated that for the radiologic detection of secondary caries, it is sufficient for composite materials to have the same level of radiopacity as enamel.
characterization of auscultatory gaps with wideband external pulse recording. three types of auscultatory gaps, called g1, g2, and g3, that occur during blood pressure measurement have been identified by using wideband external pulse recording. we have previously shown that the wideband external pulse recorded during cuff deflation can be separated into three components (k1, k2, and k3), one of which (k2) is closely related to the korotkoff sound. g1 occurs with cuff pressure just below systolic and is characterized by the presence of k1 and k2 with intermittent disappearance of k2. g1 gaps are related to a phasic decrease of arterial (systolic) pressure and were exhibited by 13 of 60 hypertensive patients. g2 gaps are related to a phasic increase of arterial (diastolic) pressure, occur when cuff pressure is just above diastolic, and are characterized by the presence of k1, k2, and k3 with intermittent disappearance of k2. seven of 60 hypertensive patients exhibited a g2 gap. g3 gaps occur with cuff pressure between systolic and diastolic and are characterized by an underdeveloped or blunted k2 signal. three of 60 hypertensive patients exhibited a g3 gap. the identification of auscultatory gaps in relation to the wideband external pulse provides a qualitative measure of their existence, can be of significant value in better understanding aspects of the auscultatory blood pressure measurement technique, and provides an objective basis with which to better understand the mechanisms that cause them.
synergism of ara-c-imuvert combination in aborting the development of transplanted chloroleukemia in the rat. the development of chloroleukemia in the rat after transplantation of c51 chloroma cells can be aborted by treatment with an exogenous source of differentiating activity (da) or by stimulation of endogenous da production by the administration of imuvert, a biologic response modifier. success or failure of treatment was determined by the ratio of da to leukemic cell load. accordingly, in the present study we examined the hypothesis that treatment with cytosine arabinoside (ara-c) to reduce the leukemic cell load coupled with imuvert would be more effective than either given alone. treatment with ara-c-imuvert aborted the development of chloroleukemia in 79% of the animals in contrast to 0%, 9% and 45% in animals treated with buffer, ara-c, or imuvert respectively. these results suggest that stimulation of endogenous da in combination with cytoreductive agents offers a potentially curative treatment for myelogenous leukemia.
choledochotomy for calculous disease in the elderly. to determine the risk of operations on the biliary tract in the elderly, we retrospectively examined 56 patients 80 years of age or older undergoing choledochotomy for calculous disease and compared their outcomes with those of a contemporary group of 257 patients undergoing similar surgery. thirty of 56 elderly patients (54%) required urgent surgery for acute cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, or obstructive jaundice (serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dl), compared with 97 of 257 younger patients (38%) (p = 0.029). mortality in elderly patients was significantly higher (5 of 56) than in younger (6 of 257) patients (p = 0.015). in three of the five patients who died, urgent surgery was performed for obstructive jaundice, reflecting the higher mortality experienced by jaundiced patients in the entire series (9.4%). biliary cultures grew organisms in 25 of 27 elderly patients (93%). this is in contrast to findings of bactibilia in 62 of 118 patients (53%) under the age of 80 (p = 0.001). similarly, preoperative blood cultures were positive more often in elderly (63%) than in younger patients (26%) (p = 0.007). mean postoperative hospital recovery was longer in the elderly group (16.2 +/- 8.5 days) than in the younger group (12.2 +/- 9.3 days) (p = 0.002). in conclusion, elderly patients, particularly those with obstructive jaundice, are at higher risk for complicated biliary tract disease necessitating choledochotomy. they appear to be more susceptible to bactibilia and bacteremia, and require longer hospital recovery than younger patients.
clinical evaluation of high-frequency (ultrasonic) mechanical debridement in the surgical treatment of calcific aortic stenosis. repair of aortic valve stenosis due to calcific degeneration may lead to hemodynamic and clinical improvement without the problems inherent with prosthetic valves. we have evaluated the use of a device capable of debriding calcium, the cavitron ultrasonic aspirator (cusa), as an adjunct to mechanical debridement in the repair of calcific aortic stenosis. ten patients (five women), ages 63 to 83 years, were studied by m-mode, two-dimensional, and doppler echocardiography before and an average of 26 (range 3 to 124) days after this procedure. the degree of calcification of the valve cusps was clearly reduced. the maximal cusp excursion increased from 0.7 +/- 0.1 cm preoperatively to 1.5 +/- 0.4 cm postoperatively (p = 0.006). the peak aortic gradient fell from 80 +/- 36 mm hg to 28 +/- 10 mm hg (p = 0.0007). the mean aortic gradient fell from 53 +/- 20 mm hg to 16 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.0001). aortic valve area calculated by the continuity equation increased from 0.6 + 0.2 cm2 to 1.6 +/- 0.6 cm2 (p = 0.0009). no patient had more than mild aortic insufficiency preoperatively. postoperatively, color doppler flow mapping revealed severe aortic insufficiency in two patients. seven patients had further echocardiographic evaluation 99 (range 33 to 196) days after the procedure. these studies revealed the development of severe aortic insufficiency in an additional four patients. four patients with severe symptomatic aortic insufficiency eventually underwent aortic valve replacement. pathology revealed scarring and retraction of the aortic cusps. widening of the commissures was responsible for the severe aortic insufficiency.
cisplatin, continuous-infusion 5-fluorouracil, and intermediate-dose methotrexate in the treatment of unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung. forty-one patients with unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung (nsccl) were treated with cisplatin 20 mg/m2/d for 5 days as a daily bolus injection, 5-fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/d by continuous infusion for 5 days, and intermediate-dose methotrexate 200 mg/m2 on days 15 and 22 of a 28-day cycle (pfm). one complete and 23 partial responses were observed, yielding an overall response rate of 60%. there was no significant difference in response rates based on histologic subtype or extent of disease (locally unresectable versus metastatic). median duration of response was 6 months, and the median survival of all patients was 10 months. two patients with unresectable disease at presentation became resectable after chemotherapy and remain disease-free at 46+ and 53+ months. toxicity was modest, with oral mucositis the major adverse effect. clinically important neutropenia was uncommon. pfm is an active regimen in nsccl and deserves further study in the "neoadjuvant" setting.
transoesophageal echocardiography improves the diagnostic value of cardiac ultrasound in patients with carcinoid heart disease. transthoracic and transoesophageal cardiac echocardiography and doppler investigations were performed in 31 consecutive patients with malignant midgut carcinoid tumours. the transoesophageal images allowed measurement of the thickness of the atrioventricular valve leaflets and the superficial wall layers on the cavity side of both atria. the mean thickness of the anterior tricuspid leaflet was significantly greater than that of the mitral valve--a difference not seen in a control group of age-matched patients without carcinoid tumours and with normal cardiac ultrasound findings. in addition, the edges of the tricuspid leaflets were thickened giving them a clubbed appearance. tricuspid incompetence was detected transoesophageally in 71% of the patients with carcinoid compared with 57% by transthoracic investigation. the inner layer of the right atrial wall in the carcinoid patients was significantly thicker than that of the left atrium and that of both atria in the controls. furthermore, patients with other signs of severe carcinoid heart disease had significantly thicker mean right atrial luminal wall layer than those with less or no signs of right heart disease. transoesophageal cardiac ultrasound investigation improved the diagnostic accuracy and seemed to show the structural changes typical of carcinoid heart disease established by histopathological investigations.
myocardial magnesium: relation to laboratory and clinical variables in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. magnesium concentration was measured in the right atrial appendage of 100 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and associations with serum and mononuclear blood cell magnesium, other laboratory values and patient clinical variables were studied. in addition, magnesium was measured in the right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall in 23 autopsy subjects to determine whether there was a proportional relation between right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall magnesium. the mean left ventricular free wall/right atrial appendage magnesium ratio was 2.13 +/- 0.39 (r = 0.67, p = 0.0009). in the group with cardiac surgery, the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated inversely with age (r = -0.54, p = 0.001). the mean right atrial appendage magnesium concentration (micrograms/g wet weight tissue) was lower in patients with postoperative cardiac arrhythmia than in those without arrhythmia (103 +/- 13 versus 111 +/- 10, p = 0.009) and in diabetic than in nondiabetic patients (103 +/- 13 versus 109 +/- 12, p = 0.02). the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration also tended to be lower in patients receiving potassium/magnesium-losing diuretics, although this difference did not achieve statistical significance (105 +/- 14 versus 109 +/- 11, p = 0.16). right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated positively with serum creatinine concentration (r = 0.31, p = 0.002) and negatively with serum calcium concentration (r = -0.29, p = 0.013). serum magnesium did not correlate with right atrial appendage or mononuclear blood cell magnesium concentration or clinical variables. there was a statistically significant correlation between mononuclear blood cell and right atrial appendage magnesium concentrations in some subgroups of patients.
morphological observations late (greater than 30 days) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty. this report describes clinical, morphological, and histological findings late (1.6-24.1 months [average, 8.2 months]) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty in 20 necropsied patients with coronary angioplasty restenosis. clinical evidence of restenosis occurred in 14 (70%) of patients, including six patients with sudden coronary death. of the 20 patients, 14 (70%) had cardiac causes of death and six (30%) had noncardiac causes of death. two major subgroups of histological findings were observed: 1) intimal proliferation (60%) and 2) atherosclerotic plaques only. of the eight sites with atherosclerotic plaques only, six were eccentric lesions and two were concentric lesions. no morphological evidence of previous angioplasty injury (cracks, breaks, or tears) was observed in the eight patients with atherosclerotic plaques only. proposed mechanisms for the development of intimal proliferation involve the reaction of smooth muscle cells and platelets, whereas elastic recoil of overstretched eccentric or concentric atherosclerotic lesions represents the most likely explanation for the findings in the latter subgroup. on the basis of these morphological findings at angioplasty restenosis sites, specific treatment strategies for coronary artery balloon angioplasty restenosis are proposed.
torsade de pointes: a critical care nurse's dilemma. torsade de pointes is a polymorphous ventricular tachycardia characterized by a gradual change in the direction of the qrs complex. because critical care nurses are the first to recognize arrhythmias, they require the knowledge and skill to intervene appropriately. this case report focuses on identification of the characteristics, contributing factors, therapeutic modalities, and relevant nursing diagnoses for the patient with torsade de pointes.
the effect of intravenous fixed-dose heparin during total hip arthroplasty on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis. a randomized, double-blind trial in patients operated on with epidural anesthesia and controlled hypotension. heparin was given in fixed doses intravenously during unilateral primary total hip-replacement operations in a prospective, double-blind trial to assess the effect on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis. one hundred and fifty patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups before the operation. twenty-four patients were excluded from the study, leaving 126 patients. group i consisted of sixty-six patients who received saline solution intravenously, and group ii comprised sixty patients who received heparin. all patients had epidural anesthesia with controlled hypotension. fixed doses of heparin were administered five minutes before the operative incision was made and every thirty minutes throughout the operation. mean arterial pressures were maintained at between fifty and sixty millimeters of mercury in all patients. ascending venography was done on the seventh day after the operation. the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis was 24 per cent (sixteen of sixty-six patients) in group i and 8 per cent (five of sixty patients) in group ii; the difference is significant (p = 0.03). the intraoperative loss of blood averaged 220 +/- 79 milliliters in group i compared with 269 +/- 109 milliliters in group ii. an average of less than one unit of blood was transfused for each patient in each group. postoperatively, there was no difference between the groups with regard to the amount of drainage that was collected in a hemovac device or the values for hematocrit.
the role of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of essential hypertension. calcium channel blockers, originally developed for the treatment of angina and supraventricular arrhythmias, have been shown to lower elevated blood pressure effectively in hypertensive patients. verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem represent prototype compounds for unique chemical classes with differing pharmacologic properties. these drugs lower elevated blood pressure with efficacy comparable with other commonly used antihypertensives. combination therapy with other agents usually results in an additive response. side effects are usually mild and reversible and usually are an extension of the drug's pharmacologic effects. moreover, adverse metabolic effects on lipid, glucose, or potassium levels are not common. because of the excellent antihypertensive effects of calcium channel blockers and their potential importance in a variety of other disease states, these agents should be routinely considered for use as a first-line antihypertensive agent in appropriately selected patients with hypertension of any severity as part of a comprehensive plan to minimize cardiovascular risk.
isolation of preferentially expressed genes in the kidneys of hypertensive rats. by differential hybridization, three complementary dnas designated as s3, s2, and sa were isolated, and the corresponding messenger rnas (mrnas) were differentially expressed between the kidneys of spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) and normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky) rats. s3 is identical to cytochrome p450 iv a2. sa encoded a protein of 546 amino acid residues, and its carboxyl terminal region had a slight homology to luciferase. no homologous sequence has been reported in s2 sequences. s3 mrna was about four times more abundantly expressed in the kidneys of 28-day-old shr than in those of age-matched wky rats, but there was no difference at age 16 weeks. a low nacl diet positively modulated the expression of the s3 gene. s2 mrna was almost undetectable in the kidneys of 28-day-old wky rats but was clearly detected in those of age-matched shr. the expression level of s2 mrna in the livers of 16-week-old shr was about five times higher than that of age-matched wky rats. the expression of s2 mrna in the livers was modulated by dietary nacl and captopril. sa mrna was more than 10 times more abundantly expressed in the kidneys of shr than in those of wky rats from age 4 weeks. with the administration of captopril, the expressions of sa mrna in the livers of shr were positively modulated. because these three genes are not only differentially expressed between shr and wky rats but also related to sodium metabolism or blood pressure control, the identification of these genes may provide important probes to examine the mechanisms of hypertension.
coronary collateral circulation in coronary artery disease and systemic hypertension. the extent and functional capacity of coronary collateral circulation in patients with systemic hypertension has not been elucidated. in the present study, 313 patients with coronary artery disease were studied to evaluate coronary collateral circulation in relation to the presence of systemic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. patients had greater than or equal to 95% diameter luminal obstruction of either the left anterior descending or the right coronary artery. patients were classified into 2 groups: the hypertensive group consisted of 61 patients, mean age 55 +/- 9 years, with systemic hypertension, and the normotensive group consisted of 252 patients, mean age 53 +/- 8 years, without hypertension. the hypertensive group had more severe angina pectoris and less history of healed myocardial infarction than the normotensive group (p less than 0.001). left ventricular wall thickness was 1.26 +/- 0.1 cm in the hypertensive and 1.03 +/- 0.06 cm in the normotensive group (p less than 0.001). the hypertensive group had more extensive coronary collateral circulation than the normotensive group (p less than 0.01). there was a positive relation between coronary collateral circulation and left ventricular wall thickness (p less than 0.001). these results indicate that patients with systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease have an increase in coronary collateral circulation corresponding to the degree of left ventricular wall thickness.
substance abuse and cerebral blood flow. objective and method: this paper reviews acute and chronic effects of drugs of abuse on cerebral blood flow (cbf) and metabolism and their clinical significance. the most important source of information for the review is human research reports published in refereed journals. a few animal studies, book chapters, and abstracts that are especially relevant are also included. results: in humans, ethanol in small doses produces cerebral vasodilation; higher doses induce cerebral vasoconstriction. chronic alcoholism is associated with reduced cbf and cerebral metabolism. sedatives and antianxiety drugs lead to global reduction in cbf and cerebral metabolism. caffeine, even in small doses, is a potent cerebral vasoconstrictor. cerebral vasodilation is seen immediately after cigarette smoking, but chronic smokers show global reduction in cbf. changes in cbf after marijuana smoking are variable; both increases and decreases are seen. chronic marijuana smoking, however, seems to reduce cbf. most inhalants and solvents are vasodilators; chronic abuse is accompanied by a decrease in cbf. a number of drugs of abuse, including ethanol, amphetamines, cocaine, nicotine, and caffeine-phenylpropanolamine combinations, increase the risk for stroke. reduction in cbf associated with chronic use of ethanol, nicotine, inhalants, and solvents is at least partially reversible upon abstinence. conclusions: topics for future research include regional brain function, which mediates drug-induced mood changes (euphoria); cbf concomitants of psychological and physiological characteristics that increase addiction potential; changes in cbf that accompany withdrawal syndromes; mechanisms responsible for drug-induced stroke; and effects of functional and organic complications on cbf.
results and complications of angioplasty in aortoiliac disease percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was used to treat 340 aortoiliac lesions in 200 patients who were followed for as long as 90 months (mean, 28.7 months; median, 23 months). the initial success rate was 94.7% for lesions and 93.0% for patients. the indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty included claudication in 117 patients (58.5%), rest pain or ischemic night pain in 47 (23.5%), limb salvage in 33 (16.5%), and aiding in wound healing in three (1.5%). in the series, 70% of the patients had two or more cardiovascular risk factors. angioplasty was initially unsuccessful in 14 patients, and 10 patients were lost to follow-up. follow-up was obtained in 176 patients. the long-term results were analyzed using the life table method to determine cumulative patency. fourteen patients were considered failures because of recurrent disease or symptoms. the projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 85%. when the response to redilatation was considered, the projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 92%. the results indicate that percutaneous transluminal angioplasty can successfully correct aortoiliac lesions and provide a long-term benefit for as long as 7.5 years.
effects of hepatitis b virus, alcohol drinking, cigarette smoking and familial tendency on hepatocellular carcinoma. independent and interactive effects related to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma were assessed using a community-based case-control study for hepatitis b virus, habitual alcohol drinking, cigarette smoking, peanut consumption and history of hepatocellular carcinoma among the immediate family. all 200 male newly diagnosed hepatocellular carcinoma patients were recruited consecutively through the period of study as the case group from two teaching medical centers in northern and southern taiwan. healthy community residents matched one-to-one with cases on age, sex, ethnic group and residential area were selected as the control group. the carrier status of hbsag and hbeag was determined by blind radioimmunoassays, and other risk factors were obtained through standardized interviews according to a structured questionnaire. conditional logistic regression analysis showed a significant association between hepatocellular carcinoma and the carrier status of hbsag and hbeag with an odds ratio of 16.7 and 56.5, respectively, for carriers of hbsag alone and for carriers of both hbsag and hbeag. there was a dose-response relationship between cigarette smoking and hepatocellular carcinoma with an odds ratio of 1.1, 1.5 and 2.6, respectively, for those who smoked 1 to 10, 11 to 20 and more than 20 cigarettes a day. a significant association with hepatocellular carcinoma was also observed for the habitual alcohol consumer with an odds ratio of 3.4. those whose immediate family had a history of hepatocellular carcinoma were more likely to have the disease develop, with an odds ratio of 4.6. however, the frequency of peanut consumption was not significantly associated with hepatocellular carcinoma.
'locked-in syndrome' for 27 years following a viral illness: clinical and pathologic findings. we describe a man who, after a presumed encephalitic illness, was "locked-in" for 27 years. his ct and autopsy findings showed atrophy of the brainstem and a cystic lesion at the base of the pons. he survived longer than most other patients in a similar state.
radiotherapy alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nonresectable non-small-cell lung cancer: first analysis of a randomized trial in 353 patients. we report the results observed in a large, randomized study that compared the effects of radiotherapy alone (the standard therapy) with those of a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in nonresectable squamous cell and large-cell lung carcinoma. the radiation dose was 65 gy in each group, and chemotherapy included vindesine, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and lomustine. in this study, 177 patients received radiotherapy alone (group a), and 176 patients received the combined treatment (group b). the 2-year survival rate was 14% in group a and 21% in group b (p = .08). the distant metastasis rate was significantly lower in group b (p less than .001). local control was poor in both groups (17% and 15%, respectively) and remained the major problem.
evidence for tumor necrosis factor-induced pulmonary microvascular injury after intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury. acute lung injury characterized by increased microvascular permeability is one feature of multiple-organ system failure and the adult respiratory distress syndrome. intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury has been linked to this type of acute lung injury. the purpose of these experiments was to examine the pathogenic mediators that link the two processes, with particular emphasis on the roles of endotoxin and tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf alpha). previously described characteristics of the acute lung injury in this rat model of intestinal ischemia-reperfusion include pulmonary neutrophil sequestration, depletion of lung tissue atp, alveolar endothelial cell disruption, and increased microvascular permeability. plasma levels of tnf in the systemic circulation of sham-operated animals and those with intestinal ischemic injury less than 60 minutes in duration were very low or undetectable. intestinal ischemia for 120 minutes was associated with tnf elevation to 1.19 +/- 0.50 u/ml. reperfusion for periods of 15 and 30 minutes generated 5- to 10-fold increases in circulating tnf levels (6.61 +/- 3.11 u/ml, p greater than 0.05 and 10.41 +/- 5.41 u/ml, p = 0.004 compared to sham); however this increase in circulating tnf was transient and largely cleared within 60 minutes after initiating reperfusion. portal vein endotoxin levels were found to increase significantly before the appearance of tnf in systemic plasma, suggesting that gut-derived endotoxin may induce tnf release from hepatic macrophages into the systemic circulation. anti-tnf antibody attenuated the increase in pulmonary microvascular permeability in this preparation but did not prevent pulmonary neutrophil sequestration. these observations suggest that endotoxin and tnf have pathogenic roles in this acute lung injury, but that mechanisms of adherence of neutrophils to endothelial cells independent of tnf may be involved. the accumulation of neutrophils in the lung but the prevention of a vascular permeability increase in the presence of antibody to tnf may imply an in vivo role for tnf in the process of neutrophil activation. these studies provide additional evidence of the importance of the endogenous inflammatory mediators in the development of systemic injury in response to local tissue injury.
adenovirus colitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. adenovirus was identified in colonic tissue by transmission electron microscopy or culture in 5 of 67 (7.4%) homosexual men seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (51 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) with diarrhea. colonoscopy showed the mucosa to be normal in 3 cases and mildly inflamed in 2. light microscopy showed foci of mucosal necrosis that contained chronic inflammatory cells and degenerating and necrotic epithelial cells with amphophilic nuclear inclusions. by transmission electron microscopy, hexagonal viral particles characteristic of adenovirus were identified within the inclusions. only 1 patient was concomitantly infected by a second potential enteric pathogen. it was concluded that adenovirus, an uncommon enteric pathogen in immunocompetent adults, causes intestinal pathology and may be associated with diarrheal illness in persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
towards a true prevalence of peptic ulcer: the sorreisa gastrointestinal disorder study. this study, designed to overcome methodological problems inherent in earlier prevalence studies of peptic ulcer, was carried out in a municipality in northern norway. it included the total population of 2027, aged 20-69 years, and comprised a questionnaire and search for previously diagnosed peptic ulcers in the local medical records for all subjects, and additional endoscopy of all subjects with dyspepsia and their matched healthy controls (n = 619). the overall prevalence was 10.5% in men and 9.5% in women, a sex ratio close to one and a higher duodenal:gastric ratio than previously reported from this region. a substantial 1% prevalence of asymptomatic ulcers was also observed.
the clinical significance of fluid collections in acute pancreatitis. computed tomography (ct) displays fluid collections in patients with acute pancreatitis as well defined intra- or extrapancreatic homogeneous areas with low attenuation numbers. we followed, prospectively, the clinical courses of 128 patients who had ct during an episode of acute pancreatitis, to determine the natural history and clinical significance of any fluid collections that developed. fluid collections were found in 48 (37%) of the 128 patients with pancreatitis. thirty-eight developed in the 86 (44%) patients with alcoholic pancreatitis, five in the 33 (15%) with biliary pancreatitis and five in the nine (55%) with other causes of pancreatitis (excluding chronic pancreatitis, trauma, or malignancy). on clinical follow-up of the 48 patients with fluid collections, 21 patients required operation; two died before an operation was done and 25 did not require operation. operations were done to treat pseudocysts (14), abscess (5), and necrosis (3). one patient had an operation for a pseudocyst and an abscess. all 14 patients requiring operation for pseudocyst had collections greater than 7 cm and 13 of these patients had alcoholic pancreatitis. of the 25 patients not requiring operation, five were lost to follow-up, and 19 of the 20 who had spontaneous resolution of their fluid collection(s) had collections less than 6 cm in diameter. the eight patients who required operative pancreatic debridement for abscess or necrosis had multiple small fluid collections. in summary, fluid collections were found in one-third of patients with acute pancreatitis and were often associated with the development of local complications.
cd34 antigen expression in children with philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. one characteristic of philadelphia chromosome (ph')-positive acute leukemia is the occasional presence of both lymphoid and myeloid features in the same leukemia. this phenomenon supports the theory that this subtype of acute leukemia arises from lymphoid-myeloid stem cell, pluripotent progenitors. very few reports, however, describe the immunophenotype, especially cd34 antigen, of ph'-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). it has been shown that cd34, the human progenitor cell antigen, is found on 1% or less of normal human bone marrow cells, approximately 30% of acute leukemias, and multipotent progenitor cells; cd34 is not found on normal peripheral blood cells. a high frequency of cd34 expression was found in children with ph'-positive all: cd34 was positive for all six patients tested, and one had an acute mixed-lineage leukemia. these findings suggest the involvement of a pluripotent stem cell in ph'-positive all.
dysplasia and dna aneuploidy in a pelvic pouch. report of a case. a patient with an 18-year history of ulcerative colitis was operated on with colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, ileoanal anastomosis, and an s-type pelvic pouch due to intractable chronic continuous disease. the patient was followed by endoscopic controls and biopsy sampling from the pouch at regular intervals. a gradual development of severe atrophy in the ileal mucosa was followed by the development of low grade dysplasia. at the most recent endoscopic control, 4 years after the construction of the pouch, biopsies were sampled also for flow cytometric dna analyses. dna aneuploidy was detected in a biopsy from the center of the pouch, and a biopsy taken immediately adjacent showed low grade dysplasia. these findings underline the importance of endoscopic follow-up after construction of a pelvic pouch and focus attention to the potential of malignant transformation of the mucosa.
round fingerpad sign: an early sign of scleroderma. we describe a clinical skin sign in scleroderma termed round fingerpad sign. this term refers to disappearance of the peaked contour on fingerpads and replacement with a hemisphere-like fingertip contour; this change is especially apparent on the ring fingers. a positive round fingerpad sign was found in 72 of 72 ring fingers in 36 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis in 69 of 72 ring fingers in patients with mixed connective tissue disease, and in 24 of 24 ring fingers of patients with raynaud's phenomenon and sclerodactyly. in contrast, a negative round fingerpad sign was seen in 240 of 240 fingers in normal women (controls). the high sensitivity of this sign is noteworthy. a positive round fingerpad was seen in sign not only typical scleroderma patients but also in groups with less severe skin sclerosis (i.e., in those patients with mixed connective tissue disease or those with raynaud's phenomenon and sclerodactyly). the sign is a new and useful clinical marker for the early diagnosis of scleroderma.
which drug prevents tachycardia and hypertension associated with tracheal intubation: lidocaine, fentanyl, or esmolol? eighty patients, asa physical status ii-iv, scheduled for noncardiac surgery, were randomly assigned in a double-blind, placebo-controlled manner to receive a preintubation dose of either placebo, 200 mg lidocaine, 200 micrograms fentanyl, or 150 mg esmolol. induction of anesthesia was accomplished with 4-6 mg/kg thiopental iv followed immediately by the study drug; 1-1.5 mg/kg succinylcholine was given at minute 1. laryngoscopy and intubation were performed at minute 2 with anesthesia thereafter maintained with 1 mac (+/- 10%) isoflurane in 60% nitrous oxide in oxygen at a 5 l/min flow for 10 min. heart rate was recorded every 15 s and blood pressure every minute from induction until 10 min after intubation. maximum percent increases in heart rate (mean +/- se) during and after intubation were similar in the placebo (44% +/- 6%), lidocaine (51% +/- 10%), and fentanyl (37% +/- 5%) groups, but lower in the esmolol (18% +/- 5%) group (p less than 0.05). maximum systolic blood pressure percent increases were lower in the lidocaine (20% +/- 6%), fentanyl (12% +/- 3%), and esmolol (19% +/- 4%) groups than in the placebo (36% +/- 5%) group (p less than 0.05), but not different from each other (p greater than 0.05). only esmolol provided consistent and reliable protection against increases in both heart rate and systolic blood pressure accompanying laryngoscopy and intubation.
systemic pattern of free radical generation during coronary bypass surgery. diffuse impairment of ventricular function after cardiac surgery may be related to the generation during reperfusion of the myocardium of free radicals derived from oxygen. fifteen patients undergoing elective coronary bypass surgery were studied by previously described assays for peroxidised lipids and for isomerised lipids which were used as indices of free radical activity. serial blood samples were obtained from systemic arterial, mixed venous, and coronary sinus catheters before, during, and after the ischaemic period. the patients underwent coronary artery surgery on cardiopulmonary bypass with a membrane oxygenator, relative hypothermia 30-34 degrees c, and intermittent cross-clamping of the aorta. during the ischaemic periods there were no significant changes in the indices of free radical activity. during the reperfusion phase there was a significant increase in free radical indices in arterial and mixed venous blood. a small rise in free radical indices in coronary venous blood was not statistically significant. these data indicate that free radical activity is increased in patients shortly after the cessation of cardiopulmonary bypass. the pattern of distribution between the different sampling sites suggests that much of the observed increase in isomerised and peroxidised lipids originates from tissues other than the myocardium.
the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is a target antigen for liver-infiltrating t cells in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis. autoantibodies to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor have been found in nearly 50% of the sera of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and in 15% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. in this study we demonstrate that the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is also a target antigen for t cell-mediated immune responses. peripheral blood lymphocytes of 37% (7 of 19) of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and 33% (2 of 6) of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis showed a proliferative response to highly purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor, whereas no proliferation was found with peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with chronic viral hepatitis (0 of 13) and healthy blood donors (0 of 4). moreover, we isolated t-cell clones from liver biopsy samples of two patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and two patients with peripheral blood lymphocytes. between 2.8% and 14.3% of these clones showed a specific proliferative response to purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor. the response was restricted to autologous antigen-presenting cells and could be blocked by monoclonal antibodies against human leukocyte antigen-dr molecules. the response of t cells to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor did not require the lectinlike activity of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. thus the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor could be identified as a major target antigen of humoral and cellular immune reactions in autoimmune-mediated liver diseases.
elevated intracranial pressure and computed tomography of the brain in fulminant hepatocellular failure. cerebral herniation is a leading cause of death in patients with fulminant hepatocellular failure. classical signs of elevated intracranial pressure are often absent in these patients. a reliable noninvasive method by which the presence of cerebral edema could be determined is much needed. to assess the efficacy of computed tomography of the brain in this setting, we compared the radiographic findings to the intracranial pressure measured by an epidural monitor in patients with fulminant hepatic failure. unfortunately, a considerable difference existed between the presence of cerebral edema diagnosed by computed tomography of the brain and elevation of the intracranial pressure. our observations suggest that in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and advanced hepatic encephalopathy, computed tomography of the brain is of little value in detecting cerebral edema. pressure monitoring is most important to establish the presence and guide the therapy of intracranial hypertension.
hemicorporectomy: a collective review. hemicorporectomy or translumbar amputation has been described as the most revolutionary of all operative procedures. frederick e. kredel, who first voiced the concept of the operation in 1950, referred to it as halfectomy. demonstration of his cadaver studies established the feasibility of the operation. amputation is effected through the lower lumbar area of the body. necessary life functions are preserved in the upper torso. kredel envisioned hemicorporectomy as a curative operation for locally advanced cancer, limited to the pelvis, not encompassable by standard operative intervention. additional indications are intractable decubitus ulcers with malignant change, particularly in paraplegics; pelvic organs, and bone infection with nonhealing fistulae; and crushing trauma to the pelvis. the first hemicorporectomy operation was reported in 1960. thirty-four operations have been recorded in the world literature. two heretofore unreported cases are added, raising the total to 36. review of these 36 cases confirms the conviction that hemicorporectomy is a humane and ethical alternative to the suffering encumbered by advancing, painful, malodorous malignant disease not treatable by conventional means. while cure rates are not substantial, the best results are reported in paraplegics with intractable decubitus ulcers with or without malignancy. rehabilitation is prolonged and costly. most survivors have been restored to preoperative occupations or other gainful employment.
tay-sachs disease in moroccan jews: deletion of a phenylalanine in the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase. tay-sachs disease is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder caused by defects in the beta-hexosaminidase alpha-subunit gene. the carrier frequency for tay-sachs disease is significantly elevated in both the ashkenazi jewish and moroccan jewish populations but not in other jewish groups. we have found that the mutations underlying tay-sachs disease in ashkenazi and moroccan jews are different. analysis of a moroccan jewish tay-sachs patient had revealed an in-frame deletion (delta f) of one of the two adjacent phenylalanine codons that are present at positions 304 and 305 in the alpha-subunit sequence. the mutation impairs the subunit assembly of beta-hexosaminidase a, resulting in an absence of enzyme activity. the moroccan patient was found also to carry, in the other alpha-subunit allele, a different, and as yet unidentified, mutation which causes a deficit of mrna. analysis of obligate carriers from six unrelated moroccan jewish families showed that three harbor the delta f mutation, raising the possibility that this defect may be a prevalent mutation in this ethnic group.
effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation on survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. to determine the effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) on the survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia, we undertook a retrospective review of 31 infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia treated at children's national medical center. infants were categorized by means of the bohn quadrant analysis to determine the impact of ecmo on infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and a "poor prognosis." all infants assigned to the bohn 100% mortality quadrant required ecmo. the survival rate in this group was 86% (6/7) when assessed preoperatively and 67% (6/9) when assessed postoperatively. comparison of the change occurring in ventilation index and arterial carbon dioxide pressure demonstrated that after repair the clinical condition of 48% of infants deteriorated, 40% improved, and 12% remained unchanged. of the 12 infants whose condition was worse after surgery, 11 eventually required ecmo. our review demonstrates that ecmo improved survival significantly in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia who had a "poor prognosis" by the criteria of bohn et al. we recommend consideration of ecmo for all infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia for whom maximal medical therapy has failed.
bronchial asthma and acid reflux into the distal and proximal oesophagus. the prevalence of pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux in children and adolescents with asthma was studied by 24 hour two level oesophageal ph monitoring in 42 subjects aged 9-20 years with moderate or severe bronchial asthma. the importance of oesophagobronchial nerve reflexes and of aspiration of gastric acid as triggers in asthma was assessed by studying whether episodes of reflux into the distal and into the proximal oesophagus were followed by asthma attacks. twenty-one subjects (50%) had a pathological total reflux time in the distal oesophagus and six (16%) in the proximal oesophagus. nine patients had pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux into the distal oesophagus together with symptoms of asthma during the day on which the recording took place. in three of them the episodes of asthma symptoms were significantly correlated with preceding episodes of reflux into the distal oesophagus, and in one subject to reflux into the proximal oesophagus. we conclude that pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux is common in children and adolescents with asthma, but it seems to provoke symptoms of asthma in only a few. symptoms of asthma were more often elicited by exposure of the distal oesophagus to gastric acid, possibly by a vagal reflex, than by aspiration of gastric juice.
substantia nigra: a site of action of muscle relaxant drugs. sites of action of centrally active muscle relaxant drugs are not well defined. clinical experience with such drugs suggests that the spinal cord may be one of the important regions from which pathologically increased muscle tone may be relieved. supraspinal centers that may also be involved in the expression of muscle relaxant action have not yet been defined. we report here that microinjections of therapeutically relevant muscle relaxants into the midbrain tegmentum of genetically spastic rats decrease muscle tone. the substantia nigra is the region from which midazolam, baclofen, and tizanidine (drugs used clinically in the treatment of spasticity), or gamma-vinyl-gaba, (-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate, and [d-pro2-d-phe7-d-trp9]-substance p (experimental drugs active in animal models of spasticity), reduce muscle tone in genetically spastic rats and hoffmann reflexes in normal rats. the effects of muscle relaxant drugs are topographically restricted to the substantia nigra pars reticulata and are receptor specific. these observations disclose a previously unknown function of the substantia nigra in mediating muscle relaxation.
cancer incidence among foundry workers in denmark. cancer incidence was studied among 6,144 male foundry workers who were invited to participate in either of two danish national silicosis surveys conducted during 1967-1969 and 1972-1974. cancer incidence was followed through to the end of 1985 by computerized linkage to the danish cancer registry, and standardized morbidity ratios (smrs) were calculated based on incidence rates for the danish population. for the entire cohort, significantly elevated smrs were seen for all cancers (smr, 1.09; 95% ci, 1.01-1.18) and lung cancer (smr, 1.30; 95% ci, 1.12-1.51), and smrs were at the borderline of statistical significance for bladder cancer (smr, 1.24; 95% ci, 0.97-1.59). excess lung and bladder cancer risk were confined to workers who had worked in foundries for at least 20 y. there was a positive correlation between silicosis prevalence in employees at the foundries at the time of the x-ray examinations and lung cancer incidence during the follow-up period. squamous cell carcinomas, anaplastic carcinomas, and other lung cancers accounted for the excess lung cancer risk, whereas there was not excess risk among the foundry workers for adenocarcinomas of the lung.
comparison of pulse oximeters: accuracy at low arterial pressure in volunteers. a laboratory model was developed of limb hypoperfusion in volunteers, using parital occlusion of the brachial artery with consequent reduction in radial artery pulse pressure. this was used to compare the function of 13 pulse oximeters and the effect of reduced pulse pressure and mild hypoxia on these devices. with the exception of one device, all the pulse oximeters studied demonstrated similar accuracies at pulse pressures exceeding 20 mm hg. there were however, significant differences between several of the pulse oximeters in both ability to display readings and accuracy of readings displayed when brachial artery occlusion reduced radial artery pulse pressures equal to or less than 20 mm hg.
xeroderma pigmentosum: review and report of a case. xeroderma pigmentosum is a rare inherited dermatosis that provides insight into the basic mechanism of carcinogenesis. it is a model disorder linking defective dna repair with clinical abnormalities and neoplasia. uv light-induced damage to the skin begins early and results in multiple benign and malignant skin tumors, especially in sun-exposed areas of the head and neck. oral cancers, primarily squamous cell carcinomas of the anterior third of the tongue, occur with greatly increased frequency. a patient with multiple facial neoplasia and oral manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum is presented. the role of the dentist in surveillance of oral and perioral structures is emphasized. the dentist is advised against the use of uv light-curing units in these patients because uv-induced epithelial damage may cause dysplasia when dna repair mechanisms are dysfunctional.
carotid-cavernous sinus fistula associated with a primitive trigeminal artery. carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas are not rare, but they have never been reported in association with persistent primitive trigeminal artery. we recently encountered such a case. the jaeger-hamby procedure was employed, with mandatory occlusion of the primitive trigeminal artery.
ldh isoenzymes in cerebrospinal fluid in various brain tumours. this study examined the isoenzymatic pattern of ldh in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) as well as the ratio between the five fractions of ldh among patients with various brain tumours, carcinomatous meningitis and control groups. ldh 1/ldh 2 less than 1 was found significant for carcinomatous meningitis (p less than 0.001) and brain metastases (p less than 0.001). ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio was found to be significantly lower in carcinomatous meningitis than in brain metastases (p less than 0.05). no ldh 1/ldh 2 ratios smaller than 1 were found in the other groups. the ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio smaller than 1 was found in the early stage of carcinomatous meningitis without other evidences of the involvement of the leptomeninges. examination of ldh 1/ldh 2 can be found as an adjunctive method to identify brain metastases and carcinomatous meningitis at the initial stage.
radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis. prospective, randomized, double-blind controlled trial of oral sulfasalazine plus rectal steroids versus rectal sucralfate. in a prospective study, 37 consecutive patients with radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis were randomized to receive a four-week course of either 3.0 g oral sulfasalazine plus 20 mg twice daily rectal prednisolone enemas (group i, n = 18) or 2.0 g twice daily rectal sucralfate enemas plus oral placebo (group ii, n = 19). the two groups were comparable with respect to demographic features, duration of symptoms, and clinical and endoscopic staging of the disease. fifteen patients in group i and 17 in group ii completed the trial. at four weeks, both groups showed significant clinical improvement (p less than 0.01 for group i and p less than 0.001 for group ii) and endoscopic healing (p less than 0.01 for group i and p less than 0.001 for group ii). when the two groups were compared, sucralfate enemas showed a significantly better response as assessed clinically (p less than 0.05), although endoscopically the response was not statistically different (p greater than 0.05). we conclude that both treatment regimens are effective in the management of radiation proctitis. sucralfate enemas give a better clinical response, are tolerated better, and because of the lower cost should be the preferred mode of short-term treatment.
progression from lymphoid hyperplasia to high-grade malignant lymphoma in mice transgenic for the t(14; 18). follicular lymphoma, the most common human lymphoma, characteristically has a t(14; 18) interchromosomal translocation. it is typically an indolent disease comprised of small resting b cells, but frequently develops into a high-grade lymphoma. the t(14; 18) translocates the bcl-2 gene, generating a deregulated bcl-2-immunoglobulin fusion gene. bcl-2 is a novel inner mitochondrial membrane protein that extends the survival of certain cells by blocking programmed cell death. to determine the oncogenic potential of the t(14; 18) translocation, we produced transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2-immunoglobulin minigene that structurally mimicked the t(14; 18). an indolent follicular hyperplasia in these transgenic mice progressed to a malignant diffuse large-cell lymphoma. the long latency, progression from polyclonal to monoclonal disease, and histological conversion, are all suggestive of secondary changes. half of the immunoblastic high-grade lymphomas had a rearranged c-myc gene. our transgenic mice provide an animal model for tumour progression in t(14; 18) lymphoma and show that prolonged b-cell life increases tumour incidence.
cancer antigen 125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and carbohydrate determinant 19-9 in ovarian tumors. the authors studied data of combination assays of tumor markers, because simultaneous elevation of different types of tumor markers in the serum was puzzling. they interpreted such phenomena regarding cancer antigen 125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and carbohydrate determinant 19-9 in ovarian tumors. the tissue expression of the antigens was compared with preoperative serum levels. several different factors were found to cause the simultaneous elevation of two or three of these markers in the serum. furthermore, even when the levels of some of the tumor markers were raised in the serum, the ovarian tumor did not always produce the marker by itself. this study indicates that immunohistochemical identification of a marker in tumor tissue is prerequisite to the use of that marker in the serum to monitor disease status.
thromboembolism. a complication of weekly chemotherapy in the treatment of non-hodgkin's lymphoma. in a retrospective survey of 85 patients who received chemotherapy as treatment for non-hodgkin's lymphomas, the authors found that clinically apparent thromboembolic disorders occurred in four of 11 patients receiving weekly chemotherapy, and in none of 74 patients who were treated on less intensive schedules, suggesting that intensive weekly chemotherapy is thrombogenic. the possible mechanisms of this effect are discussed.
european experience with itraconazole in systemic mycoses. since january 1985 more than 100 patients with deep fungal infections have been treated with itraconazole (200 to 400 mg/day) in northern italy. evaluation of the drug efficacy and tolerance was possible in one patient with sporotrichosis, in 34 with aspergillosis, and in 36 with cryptococcosis (mainly patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus). response to itraconazole alone was obtained in the case of sporotrichosis and in 24 of 34 patients with different forms of aspergillosis (of the 18 patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, 15 were cured). patients with cryptococcosis received itraconazole for active infection and/or for prevention of relapse. active infection was treated successfully with itraconazole alone in 9 of 12 patients and with itraconazole plus flucytosine in 8 of 10 patients. of the 31 patients who received itraconazole maintenance therapy for up to 27 months, 4 (13%) had relapses; 14 (45%) did not have relapses, and decline of serum antigen was detected in 12 of them; and 13 (42%) were completely cured (serum antigen titer dropped to zero). with the exception of hypokalemia in one patient, itraconazole was well tolerated even in patients who received the drug for several months or years.
study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques. the status of hepatitis b virus dna was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis. this liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. the results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis b core and surface antigens. there was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis b viral dna by in situ hybridization and absence of hbc and hbsag in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. these results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature.
interpleural analgesia improves pulmonary function after cholecystectomy. the purpose of this study was to examine the effects of interpleural bupivacaine on analgesia and ventilatory capacity after cholecystectomy. forty-two patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy were randomly assigned to two groups: one to receive interpleural administration of bupivacaine-adrenaline mixture (group 1 = 22 patients) and the other standard administration of intramuscular meperidine (group 2 = 20 patients) for postoperative pain relief. the intensity of pain was evaluated by a visual analogue scale (vas) preoperatively as well as at 2, 8, 24 and 48 hr postoperatively. at the same time, fvc and fev1.0 measurements were obtained for all patients. the group given interpleural bupivacaine had better pain relief with mean vas of 0.6 +/- 0.9 (mean +/- sd) 1.1 +/- 1.4, 0.6 +/- 0.9 and 0.8 +/- 1.2 compared with 5.2 +/- 2.2, 5.8 +/- 2.7, 5.5 +/- 2.2 and 4.5 +/- 1.8 for patients receiving meperidine (p less than 0.001). the patients in group 1 also had larger fvc and fev than those in group 2: fvc 22 +/- 14.5 per cent vs 32 +/- 15.2 per cent (p less than 0.005), fev1.0 25 +/- 15.5 vs 38 +/- 14.8 per cent (p less than 0.001) (mean +/- sd). we conclude that the interpleural analgesia can achieve better pain relief with greater ventilatory capacity than a standard analgesic regimen in the first two days after cholecystectomy.
assessment of cataracts from photographs in the beaver dam eye study. presence and severity of age-related cataract was determined in adults 43 to 84 years of age in beaver dam, wisconsin. duplicate photograph gradings for nuclear sclerosis (n = 1160), cortical opacities (n = 1159), and posterior subcapsular cataract (n = 1137) were performed. there are five levels of nuclear sclerosis. exact agreement occurred in 64.7% of the cases; agreement within one category in 99.8%. for cortical opacities, graders estimate involved area in nine segments of the lens. when the continuous scale is divided into 12 categories of severity, exact agreement varied between 73.5 and 82.4%; for agreement within one category, rates varied between 84.6 and 89.9%. for posterior subcapsular cataracts, exact agreement for involvement of the central circle occurred in 95.0% and agreement within one category occurred in 97.7%. intraobserver comparisons disclosed similar concordance. these grading schemes are semiquantitative, reproducible, and can be performed for the large numbers of photographs from population-based studies.
prognostic significance of conjugate eye deviation in stroke patients. we prospectively studied the prognostic significance of conjugate eye deviation in 80 patients with acute stroke and compared the 3-month mortality and disability of these patients to those of the tilburg epidemiological study of stroke. mortality of patients with conjugate eye deviation was higher (41%) than for the general stroke population (34%), but this difference was not statistically significant (p less than 0.179). looking at mortality and disability together, we found the outcome of patients with conjugate eye deviation to be significantly worse (p less than 0.001). deviation of the eyes occurred more frequently to the right (65%) than to the left (35%). in the patient group with eye deviation to the left, mortality was significantly higher (64%, p less than 0.001) than in the group with eye deviation to the right (25%); only two patients of the former group (n = 28) could return home. compared to the tilburg epidemiological study of stroke, the group with eye deviation to the left did significantly worse, both for mortality alone (p less than 0.001) and for mortality and disability together (p less than 0.001). the group with eye deviation to the right did significantly worse only for mortality and disability together (p less than 0.01). our results indicate that conjugate eye deviation is a prognostic factor for poor short-term mortality and disability in stroke patients, especially when the eyes are deviated to the left.
pathophysiological insights into the cardiomyopathy of chagas' disease. the evidence gained from both human and animal studies of chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy suggests that the disease occurs as a consequence of several discrete and progressive pathophysiological processes occurring after infection, the ultimate expression of which depends on a host of unidentified factors. collectively, the infection-associated events compromise microvasculature function and result in hypoperfusion, with consequences indistinguishable from those observed in other, nonparasitological cardiomyopathic diseases secondary to hypoperfusion. therefore, chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy may share similar pathophysiological abnormalities with other chronic congestive cardiomyopathic states.
ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery in the treatment of metastatic colon carcinoma. preliminary results. cryosurgery, the in situ freezing of cancer, has been proposed in the past as a possible treatment for unresectable hepatic tumors. its advantage lies in the fact that it is a very focal treatment sacrificing less normal tissue than surgical resection, allowing treatment of multiple lobes. because cryosurgery does not affect large vessels, tumors in difficult locations, such as adjacent to the inferior vena cava (ivc), can be treated. with the use of intraoperative ultrasound to place the cryoprobes and monitor the freezing process, 18 patients with unresectable metastatic colon carcinoma confined to the liver were treated. of the 18 patients treated, 4 (22%) are in complete remission as determined by computed tomography (ct) scans and carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) levels, with a mean follow-up of 28.8 months. four patients (22%) were not adequately treated at the time of cryosurgery. the number of lesions frozen in each patient ranged from 1 to 12, with a mean of 6 lesions. fourteen patients had bilobar disease; three patients had previous right lobectomies with recurrences in their remaining left lobes prior to cryosurgery, and one patient had unilobar disease. mean survival of the 14 cases with recurrence was 21.4 months, with 2 of the 14 still alive. ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery appears to be an effective treatment for metastatic colon carcinoma to the liver that is unresectable (including patients with bilobar and multiple lesions). these preliminary results indicate that the procedure warrants further study.
duration of the qt interval and total and cardiovascular mortality in healthy persons (the framingham heart study experience). the baseline electrocardiograms of 5,125 original subjects of the framingham heart study were measured to examine the relation of the qt interval corrected for heart rate (qtc) to risk of total mortality, sudden cardiac death, and death due to coronary artery disease over a 30-year follow-up period. quintiles of qtc (seconds) less than or equal to 0.36, 0.36 to 0.38, 0.39 to 0.40, 0.41 to 0.43 and greater than or equal to 0.44 were studied in relation to these outcomes. there were no significant differences in the risk of total mortality, sudden cardiac death or death due to coronary artery disease according to qtc. a similar lack of significant association between qtc and these 3 outcomes was observed among all persons studied and in the 2 sexes after using a multiple regression analysis to control for several potentially confounding characteristics including age, gender, cigarette smoking, serum total cholesterol, systolic systemic blood pressure and framingham relative weight. the results of this study fail to demonstrate an association between baseline qtc and overall mortality, and deaths due to sudden cardiac events or coronary artery disease in a large population-based cohort of essentially healthy persons in whom pathologic forms of qtc prolongation are uncommon.
significance of magnetic resonance imaging in acute head injury. one hundred seventy-seven patients who had incurred head trauma were studied with magnetic resonance imaging (mri). patients varied from those with mild injury without any focal neurological deficit to those with severe injury with post-traumatic coma. altogether, 177 lesions were demonstrated by mri in 123 of 177 patients within 3 days of injury using t2-weighted (se2000/40,2000/111) and t1-weighted (ir1500/500/40) multislice sequences. in contrast, computerized tomography (ct) demonstrated 103 lesions in 90 patients. mri was superior to ct in the diagnosis of nonhemorrhagic contusions demonstrated as a high-intensity area on t2-weighted imaging. mri provided some information to evaluate the severity of diffuse axonal injury or to predict delayed traumatic intracerebral hematoma (dtich).
effects of hypertension on pregnancy monitoring and results. the effect of severity of hypertension on fetal heart rate tracing changes and neonatal outcomes was evaluated on all patients with hypertension seen in 1980 and 1981 (666 cases, 10% of the pregnant population) in the chicago-lying in hospital. the patients were grouped according to severity of hypertension, and the fetal heart rate monitoring, drugs administered, mode of delivery, and neonatal outcome were analyzed. half of the patients (326) had mild hypertension and 13% (87) had severe hypertension; the remainder (253) had moderate hypertension. there were 49% primiparous and 51% multiparous women. the diagnosis of preeclampsia was made in 76% of cases, and chronic hypertension in 19%. only 12% of the total were premature by dates, but 47% of this group were among the severe group. oxytocin was given to 50%, whereas delivery was spontaneous in 56% of cases, and by cesarean section in 22%. this was higher among the severe hypertension group (37%), and the prematurity rate was 47%. nonstress testing was done in one third of cases and only nonreactivity was associated with neonatal death. neonatal depression (apgar score less than 6 at 5 minutes) was significantly associated with intrapartum fixed baseline and late decelerations; these were the best predictors of fetal outcome. the administration of magnesium sulfate, hydralazine, meperidine, or morphine did not predictably affect the fetal heart rate pattern. the perinatal mortality was 21% in the mild group and 36% and 138%, respectively, among moderate and severe cases of hypertension. close antepartum and intrapartum surveillance, including proper fetal monitoring, should help to reduce risks for mother and fetus through timely intervention.
familial creutzfeldt-jakob disease without periodic eeg activity. four members of a kindred with creutzfeldt-jakob disease are reported, in whom myoclonus did not develop and in whom serial electroencephalograms performed late in their illness failed to show periodic sharp wave complexes. otherwise, the patients' disease duration, clinical features, and neuropathological findings were similar to those described in sporadic cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. our findings and those reported by others suggest that periodic electroencephalographic activity may be rare in familial forms of creutzfeldt-jakob disease, as it is in other slow transmissible encephalopathies.
occult, bilateral anterior sacral and intrasacral meningeal and perineurial cysts: case report and review of the literature. none of the more than 180 cases of anterior sacral meningocele reported in the past 150 years has been bilateral, and only two have been associated with occult intrasacral meningocele. we report a unique case of bilateral anterior sacral cysts, communicating with the subarachnoid space, associated with occult intrasacral meningeal and perineurial (tarlov's) cysts, in an asymptomatic woman. the pertinent clinical and diagnostic imaging literature is reviewed.
intrathecal morphine 0.2 mg versus epidural bupivacaine 0.125% or their combination: effects on parturients. to compare the efficacy and side effects of 0.2 mg intrathecal (it) morphine with 0.125% epidural bupivacaine, 62 women in labor were studied. they were randomly divided into three groups: group 1 (n = 20) received it morphine; group 2 (n = 22) received epidural bupivacaine; and group 3 (n = 20) received a combination of both using a combined spinal-epidural (cse) technique. according to a visual analogue scale for assessing analgesia, neither it 0.2 mg morphine nor 10 ml 0.125% epidural bupivacaine was effective in producing adequate pain relief in labor, whereas the combination produced excellent analgesia. the use of it morphine significantly reduced the dosage requirement of epidural bupivacaine. the incidence of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus was significantly higher when it morphine had been administered, whereas that of urinary retention did not differ. no serious respiratory depression occurred in any of the patients. when the course of labor was studied, the prior use of it morphine significantly prolonged the duration of the first stage of labor and the total duration of labor. we conclude that the administration of 0.2 mg it morphine in combination with epidural administration of 0.125% bupivacaine provides better analgesia than the administration of either drug alone.
felodipine in the treatment of hypertensive type ii diabetics: effect on glucose homeostasis. the effect of felodipine on glucose tolerance was evaluated in 18 male type ii diabetic patients treated with diet alone, who were hypertensive despite beta-blocker treatment. the study was a double-bind cross-over comparison of placebo and felodipine in addition to beta-blockade. oral glucose tolerance tests were performed at randomization and at the end of each 4-week double-blind treatment period. the doses of felodipine given were 5 mg b.i.d. for 2 weeks followed by 10 mg b.i.d. for a further 2 weeks. blood pressure was significantly reduced during felodipine treatment, whereas heart rate remained unaltered. hba1c and fasting insulin levels did not change during the treatment periods. fasting and maximal blood glucose levels were not altered between any of the treatment periods. however, there was a small but statistically significant increase (median increase 4%) in the area under the glucose concentration vs. time curve after felodipine as compared to placebo treatment. this increase was not considered to be clinically significant in the short term, but the finding merits further investigation in a rigorous long-term study.
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine. we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine, the brachial plexus and related vessels. the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium, the sternoclavicular joint, and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle. we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results. its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia, surgical technique and postoperative care.
cv 205-502--effectiveness, tolerability, and safety over 24-month study. twenty hyperprolactinemic women (median prolactin [prl] 2,989 mu/l, range 1,149 to 11,910 mu/l), previously unsuccessfully treated with bromocriptine, were treated in a prospective study, for 3 to 24 months with the new, nonergot, long-acting, dopamine agonist, cv 205-502. treatment resulted in normalization of prl in 14 patients, in one daily dose of 0.075 to 0.150 mg of the drug. three patients were treated in doses above 0.150 mg up to 0.300 mg, but prl was not normalized during the study. menstrual function was restored in 15 of 18 amenorrheic patients. galactorrhea, present in 7 patients, disappeared in 5. four patients became pregnant and gave birth to healthy children. in conclusion, we found cv 205-502 effective in one daily dose, with good tolerability; it is safe and provides a valuable alternative to the dopamine agonist drugs in use today.
continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in hypertensive crises in pregnancy. twenty-four patients first seen with hypertensive crises during pregnancy were studied by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring for a period of 24 hours to detect the presence of serious ventricular arrhythmias. three patients were excluded from analysis because of low serum potassium levels. thirteen of the remaining 21 patients had ventricular tachycardia on subsequent analysis of the electrocardiogram. these arrhythmias subsided after induction of anesthesia when blood pressure control was optimal. this finding may be implicated in the pathogenesis of pulmonary edema and sudden death in these patients.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and increased risk for peptic ulcer disease in elderly persons. objective: to evaluate the relative risk for peptic ulcer disease that is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. design: nested case-control study. setting: tennessee medicaid program. participants: medicaid enrollees 65 years of age or older were included in the study. the 1415 case patients had been hospitalized for confirmed peptic ulcer disease at some point from 1984 through 1986. the 7063 control persons represented a stratified random sample of other medicaid enrollees. measurements and main results: the estimated relative risk for the development of peptic ulcer disease among current users of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, compared with that among nonusers, was 4.1 (95% ci, 3.5 to 4.7). for current users, the risk increased with increasing dose, from a relative risk of 2.8 (ci, 1.8 to 4.3) for the lowest to a relative risk of 8.0 (ci, 4.4 to 14.8) for the highest dose category. the risk was greatest in the first month of use (relative risk, 7.2; ci, 4.9 to 10.5). if the association is fully causal, 29% of peptic ulcers in the study sample resulted from the use of these drugs, and the excess risk associated with such use was 17.4 hospitalizations for ulcer disease per 1000 person-years of exposure. conclusions: these data support other findings indicating that a clinically significant risk for serious ulcer disease is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. the data show that this risk increases with dose and recency of use and that use of these drugs may be responsible for a large proportion of peptic ulcer disease among elderly persons.
oral contraceptives and breast cancer. among women in general the risk of breast cancer through 59 years of age does not appear to be affected appreciably by the use of oral contraceptives. nonetheless, concern continues to be expressed about the effects of early age at first use, long-term duration of use, formulation, and a variety of other factors thought to influence breast cancer risk in the presence of oral contraception. a number of recent studies restricted to young women suggest that long-term use may increase the risk of disease occurring very early, but the present lack of consistent findings in well-conducted epidemiologic studies prevents any certain conclusion with regard to cause-and-effect. however, if an increased risk were indeed present, the most plausible interpretation is that long-term oral contraception promotes earlier clinical manifestation of breast cancer in some women while having no net impact on their lifetime risk of the disease.
response of spinal cord blood flow and motor and sensory evoked potentials to aortic ligation. to produce spinal cord ischemia in the lamb, ligation of the thoracic aorta was performed for 15, 30, and 45 minutes in three animals each. spinal cord blood flow and motor and sensory evoked potentials were measured before, during, and after aortic ligation. ischemia with a blood flow of zero during ligation was encountered in the thoracic and lumbar cords, followed by hyperemia upon release of the ligature. both somatosensory and motor evoked potentials were obliterated during aortic ligation and gradually recovered following resumption of flow. motor and sensory evoked potentials behaved similarly to high aortic ligation.
an inner city cancer prevention clinic. design, methods, and early results. an american cancer society demonstration pilot project is underway that is designed to provide comprehensive cancer prevention-related services to the underserved community of west oakland, california. an array of cancer prevention services are being made available through an inner-city clinic (west oakland health center), including cancer risk assessments and education about cancer, physical examinations for cancer, teaching of self-examination procedures, smoking cessation, and nutrition counseling, appointments for pap smears, sigmoidoscopy, mammography, and other more specialized screening procedures, case management for findings suspicious for cancer, and community education programs. described is the process of implementing these services, their utilization, and their impact (after 6 months).
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infections in gambian children: i. acute lower respiratory tract infections in infants presenting at the hospital. ninety infants less than 1 year of age with pneumonia and 43 control infants were investigated for viral and chlamydial infection with the use of culture and serology and for bacterial infection with the use of blood cultures, lung aspirates, antibody assays and antigen detection procedures. one or more potential pathogens were identified in 62 (69%) cases with pneumonia and in 12 (28%) controls. infection by respiratory viruses was identified in 42 (49%) cases and in 8 (19%) controls. respiratory syncytial virus was the commonest pathogen identified and was found in 32 cases (37%). bacterial infections were also common, being found in 27 (30%) cases and 3 (7%) controls, and predominantly involved streptococcus pneumoniae (20%) or haemophilus influenzae (11%). bacterial infections were associated with raised white blood cell counts and were identified more often by antigen detection procedures (68%) than by culture of blood or lung aspirates (34%) or by serology (33%). mixed viral-bacterial infections were identified in 13 cases (15%). infection with chlamydia trachomatis was diagnosed in 2 infants with acute lower respiratory tract infection and in 1 control infant.
the electrodiagnostic findings in polyneuropathies associated with igm monoclonal gammopathies. electrodiagnostic studies were analyzed in patients with neuropathy associated with igm monoclonal proteins, 7 with anti-myelin associated glycoprotein reactivity (mag) and 7 nonreactive to mag. the findings were distinctly different in the two groups. the electrodiagnostic studies of all the mag-reactive patients had demyelinating features with slowing of conduction and prolonged distal latencies while only one of the mag-nonreactive patients had a demyelinating pattern. in fact, the mag-nonreactive patients were a heterogeneous group, both electrodiagnostically and clinically. this study supports the concept that mag-reactive polyneuropathy is demyelinating in type, and is caused by the activity of the igm m-protein directed at an antigen in the myelin sheath.
characterization of distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis. use of the protected specimen brush technique in 54 mechanically ventilated patients. to obtain accurate information on distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation in patients with chronic bronchitis, we prospectively studied 54 such patients who had been receiving mechanical ventilation because of hypercapnic respiratory failure. fiberoptic bronchoscopy using a protected specimen brush (psb) was performed on each patient within the first 24 h after admission. cultures of protected brush specimens demonstrated no growth in 27 patients (50%). with the exception of fever (38.2 +/- 0.8 versus 37.7 +/- 0.6 degrees c; p less than 0.05), the initial severity of the episode of exacerbation was similar in patients with and without infection. a total of 44 organisms were isolated in the 27 patients with positive cultures; the predominant pathogens were hemophilus spp. and streptococcus spp. (involved in 74% of cases), but other organisms were isolated in 12 of 27 patients. mortality rates, duration of mechanical ventilation, and duration of hospitalization were not significantly different between patients with bronchial microflora treated with appropriate antimicrobial therapy (n = 27) and patients without bronchial microflora either receiving empirical antibiotic therapy (n = 18) or not (n = 9). these data suggest that distal bronchial infection due to the usual pathogens, as far as shown by protected specimen brush cultures, may not be the sole or even the predominant cause of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis in patients requiring mechanical ventilation.
role of diabetologist in evaluating diabetic retinopathy. objective: to evaluate the ability of diabetologists to screen diabetic patients for diabetic retinopathy. research design and methods: comparison of eye examination performed by diabetologists with direct ophthalmoscopy through an undilated pupil and by ophthalmologists through a dilated pupil with seven-field stereoscopic fundus photography (gold standard). the study consisted of 67 insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetic outpatients attending a diabetes clinic. results: on the basis of fundus photography, patients were classified as having no or insignificant (30%), minimal (31%), moderate (24%), or severe (15%) retinopathy. the diabetologists and ophthalmologists performed similarly in their ability to classify severity of diabetic retinopathy accurately. when no or insignificant retinopathy (isolated microaneurysms only) was detected by examination, clinically significant retinopathy detected by fundus photography was highly unlikely (less than 5%). on the other hand, if more than isolated microaneurysms were seen on examination, all examiners missed more severe lesions detected by fundus photography. patients with corrected visual acuity worse than 20/30 had a high likelihood (100%) of moderate or severe retinopathy. conclusions: motivated well-trained diabetologists can screen for diabetic retinopathy. the absence of detectable lesions by direct ophthalmoscopy indicates that automatic referral to an ophthalmologist is not necessary. however, if any level of retinopathy is detected or corrected acuity is worse than 20/30, referral to an ophthalmologist is required. in this setting, fundus photography is advised because it is the most sensitive means of detecting clinically significant retinopathy. if other nonophthalmologists can be trained to achieve similar results, current recommendations for ophthalmologic referral that require annual ophthalmologic examinations for most diabetic patients may need to be reconsidered.
vegetables, fruits, and carotenoids and the risk of cancer. low intake of vegetables, fruits, and carotenoids is consistently associated with increased risk of lung cancer in both prospective and retrospective studies. in addition, low levels of beta-carotene in serum or plasma are consistently associated with the subsequent development of lung cancer. the simplest explanation is that beta-carotene is protective. since retinol (preformed vitamin a) is not related in a similar manner to lung cancer risk, beta-carotene appears to function through a mechanism that does not require conversion into vitamin a. however, the importance of other carotenoids and other constituents of vegetables and fruit has not been adequately explored. both prospective and retrospective studies suggest that vegetable and fruit intake may reduce the risk of cancers of the mouth, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, stomach, colon, rectum, bladder, and cervix. but because of fewer studies and less consistency among studies, the epidemiologic evidence is at present less persuasive than for lung cancer.
paf-acether synthesis by helicobacter pylori. clinical studies suggest that helicobacter pylori may play a role in the pathogenesis of gastroduodenal ulcers in man but direct evidence of mucosal injury by this microorganism is still lacking. paf-acether (paf) causes a number of disorders including ischaemic bowel necrosis and gastroduodenal ulceration. since paf is produced by escherichia coli, we investigated whether it could be synthesised by h pylori. five h pylori isolates were collected from antral biopsy specimens from patients with gastritis and duodenal ulcer and cultured with selective antibiotics. colonies obtained from both blood agar and brucella broth medium were used. paf was determined by platelet aggregation assay after ethanolic extraction and subsequent purification by high performance liquid chromatography. paf was detected in h pylori in blood agar plates (680 (390) pg paf/1 x 10(6) organisms) but not in bacteria cultured on brucella broth medium. supplementation of the latter medium with lyso paf and acetyl-coa, two paf precursors present in high amounts in the mammalian intestine, induced paf production in three of five isolates. the platelet aggregating material extracted from h pylori exhibited biological and physiochemical characteristics identical to those of paf released from eukaryotic cells. these findings suggest that h pylori may add to the local production of paf in inflamed gastric mucosa.
transrectal ultrasonography in the evaluation of the infertile man: a report of 3 cases. the traditional evaluation of the infertile man with azoospermia or low ejaculate volume includes determination of serum testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels, a seminal fructose test, post-ejaculate urinalysis and, sometimes, vasography. transrectal ultrasonography, a technique currently familiar to most urologists, recently has been added to our diagnostic armamentarium. this office-based imaging procedure provides an accurate assessment of the prostate, ejaculatory ducts and seminal vesicles, which can be helpful in the evaluation of certain infertile patients. we describe 3 patients who presented with either azoospermia or decreased ejaculate volume in whom transrectal ultrasonography had a critical role in the fertility evaluation. the clinical indications for and interpretation of transrectal ultrasonography in the infertile population are described. transrectal ultrasonography currently is the most accurate, inexpensive and readily available noninvasive imaging technique used to diagnose obstruction of the ejaculatory ducts in the infertile patient with either azoospermia or low ejaculate volume.
radiotherapy for palliation of locally advanced prostatic carcinoma. some patients present with distressing symptoms due to locally advanced prostatic carcinoma which may be refractory to hormonal manipulation and/or surgical treatment. over an 8-year period 26 patients received local palliative radiotherapy for recurrent bleeding and lower urinary outflow tract obstruction. all were treated with conventional external beam radiotherapy and all but 2 obtained useful palliation of symptoms, especially those with recurrent bleeding. we also found that radiotherapy could be given to the majority of patients on an out-patient basis in 2 or 3 fractions. this was well tolerated and there were few side effects.
the marinesco-sjogren syndrome examined by computed tomography, magnetic resonance, and 18f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and positron emission tomography. the marinesco-sjogren syndrome is an autosomal recessive degenerative disorder characterized by congenital cataracts, cerebellar ataxia, spasticity, mental deficiency, and skeletal abnormalities. we studied two adult siblings with marinesco-sjogren syndrome using anatomic and metabolic brain imaging techniques to characterize the pattern and nature of abnormalities in the brain. computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging showed diffuse brain atrophy of mild to moderate degree, involving primarily the white matter of the cerebrum, cerebellum, brain stem, and cervical spinal cord. the pattern of atrophy resembled that seen in diffuse leukoencephalopathies. measurements of local cerebral glucose metabolic rates with positron emission tomography revealed no statistically significant differences from normal control subjects in most regions, but metabolic rate was decreased in the thalamus in one patient. the findings support a diffuse white matter disorder in marinesco-sjogren syndrome.
celiac disease, brain atrophy, and dementia. we report 5 patients who developed dementia before age 60 and were subsequently found to have celiac disease (cd). intellectual deterioration ranged from moderate to severe, and diffuse cerebral or cerebellar atrophy was found on brain ct. diagnosis of cd was confirmed by findings of subtotal villous atrophy in jejunal biopsy specimens and positive serum reticulin and gliadin antibodies. conspicuously, gastrointestinal symptoms were mild. the gluten-free diet failed to improve the neurologic disability except in 1 patient. cd is a multisystem disorder and may play a role in some cases of presenile dementia. although the pathogenetic mechanisms are obscure, immunologic mechanisms are implicated.
salmeterol in nocturnal asthma: a double blind, placebo controlled trial of a long acting inhaled beta 2 agonist objective--to determine whether inhaled salmeterol, a new long acting inhaled beta adrenergic agonist, reduces nocturnal bronchoconstriction and improves sleep quality in patients with nocturnal asthma. design--randomised, double blind, placebo controlled crossover study. setting--hospital outpatient clinics in edinburgh. subjects--twenty clinically stable patients (13 women, seven men) with nocturnal asthma, median age 39 (range 18-60) years. interventions--salmeterol 50 micrograms and 100 micrograms and placebo taken each morning and evening by metered dose inhaler. rescue salbutamol inhalers were provided throughout the run in and study periods. main outcome measures--improvement in nocturnal asthma as measured by peak expiratory flow rates and change in sleep quality as measured by electroencephalography. results--salmeterol improved the lowest overnight peak flow rate at both 50 micrograms (difference in median values (95% confidence interval for difference in medians) 69 (18 to 88) l/min) and 100 micrograms (72 (23 to 61) l/min) doses twice daily. while taking salmeterol 50 micrograms twice daily patients had an objective improvement in sleep quality, spending less time awake or in light sleep (-9 (-4 to -44) min) and more time in stage 4 sleep (26 (6-34) min). conclusions--salmeterol is an effective long acting inhaled bronchodilator for patients with nocturnal asthma and at a dose of 50 micrograms twice daily improves objective sleep quality.
vascular complications after orthotopic liver transplantation. over a 57-month period, we performed 430 orthotopic liver transplants in 372 patients. a total of 38 vascular complications were identified including hepatic artery thrombosis (n = 24), portal vein thrombosis (n = 6), combined hepatic artery thrombosis/portal vein thrombosis (n = 3), and hepatic artery rupture (n = 5). a number of potential risk factors for the development of vascular thrombosis were evaluated with only children, weight less than 10 kg, and cold ischemia time found to be significant. the clinical presentation included fulminant hepatic failure, allograft dysfunction, biliary sepsis, and screening ultrasound. duplex ultrasonography was diagnostic in nearly all cases. therapeutic modalities included revascularization, revascularization followed by retransplantation, retransplantation alone, and observation. five cases of hepatic artery rupture occurred in four patients. infectious arteritis was present in four patients. the 6-month actuarial survival in patients with vascular complications was 70%. early diagnosis is critical for graft salvage, with surgical intervention the mainstay of therapy.
usefulness of antithrombotic therapy in resting angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction in preventing death and myocardial infarction (a pilot study from the antithrombotic therapy in acute coronary syndromes study group). in a prospective pilot trial of antithrombotic therapy in the acute coronary syndromes (atacs) of resting and unstable angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction, 3 different antithrombotic regimens in the prevention of recurrent ischemic events were compared for efficacy. ninety-three patients were randomized to receive aspirin (325 mg/day), or full-dose heparin followed by warfarin, or the combination of aspirin (80 mg/day) plus heparin and then warfarin. trial antithrombotic therapy was added to standardized antianginal medication and continued for 3 months or until an end point was reached. analysis, by intention-to-treat, of the 3-month end points, revealed the following: recurrent ischemia occurred in 7 patients (22%) after aspirin, in 6 patients (25%) after heparin and warfarin, and in 16 patients (43%) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin; coronary revascularization occurred in 12 patients (38%) after aspirin, in 12 patients (50%) after heparin and warfarin, and in 22 patients (60%) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin; myocardial infarction occurred in 1 patient (3%) after aspirin, in 3 patients (13%) after heparin and warfarin, and in no patient after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin; no deaths occurred after aspirin or after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin, but 1 patient (4%) died after warfarin alone; major bleeding occurred in 3 patients (9%) after aspirin, in 2 patients (8%) after heparin and warfarin, and in 3 patients (8%) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin. recurrent myocardial ischemia occurred at 3 +/- 3 days after randomization.
modified van nes rotationplasty in the treatment of malignant neoplasms in the lower extremities of children. a technique of modified van nes rotationplasty has been used since 1981 for limb salvage surgery in children and adolescents with malignant sarcoma of the lower extremity. the original procedure for lesions of the distal femur was further modified and adopted for selected lesions of the proximal femur and tibia. sixteen skeletally immature children form the base of this report. the tumors were located in the distal femur in ten children, the proximal tibia in five and the proximal femur in one. there were no intraoperative complications and postoperative complications included one infection requiring debridement and three minor healing delays. there were no local recurrences, neurovascular compromises, late derotations, or psychologic decompensations. one patient died of metastatic disease and another died of a second malignancy (leukemia). the remaining patients are good, functional, below-knee prosthesis users who participate in a number of sporting and athletic activities. the procedure is safe, has a relatively low complication rate, allows for the functional demands of an active, growing child, and accommodates for the future growth of extremities.
diagnosis of metastatic lesions to the stomach by salvage cytology. a report of three cases. secondary neoplasms of the stomach are rare and are often clinical and diagnostic problems. three patients with bleeding "volcano-like" ulcers were diagnosed by combined endoscopic "salvage" cytology and surgical biopsy as having metastatic submucosal lesions from hematologic spread. the combination of endoscopic appearance, clinical findings, and tissue and cytologic examination can lead to the correct diagnosis. the results from these cases support the utility of this cytologic technique in combination with biopsy in this clinical setting.
polymorphisms of glut2 and glut4 genes. use in evaluation of genetic susceptibility to niddm in blacks. the liver/islet (glut2) and muscle/adipose tissue (glut4) glucose-transporter gene products, membrane proteins that facilitate glucose uptake into cells, are important molecules for normal carbohydrate metabolism. recent isolation of the genes encoding these proteins provides a means to assess the role of possible defects that might contribute to impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion or impaired insulin-mediated glucose uptake, both prominent phenotypic features of non-insulin-dependent diabetes (niddm). a glut2 cdna clone was isolated from a human liver cdna library to search for polymorphisms at this locus in american blacks. three highly polymorphic sites were identified, one of which (ecori-hae iii) appears to be due to an insertion and/or deletion of 200 base pairs of dna. significant linkage disequilibrium between these sites over approximately 30 kilobases of genomic dna suggested that these polymorphisms could be in linkage disequilibrium with mutations at this locus if they exist. a glut4 cdna clone was also utilized to search for polymorphisms at this locus, but only one previously described polymorphism was observed. glut2 and glut4 cdna probes were used to evaluate dna polymorphisms in genomic dna from american blacks with niddm. the allelic, genotypic, and haplotypic frequencies of the dna polymorphisms at these loci did not differ from the frequencies in nondiabetic subjects. because no associations with niddm were found, it appears unlikely that mutations at these loci contribute in a major way to the genetic susceptibility to niddm observed in american blacks.
urinary tract dilatation in constipated children. abnormalities of the upper urinary tract were sought retrospectively in 180 children with constipation who had been investigated surgically over a 5-year period. of those in whom an intravenous urogram had been performed, the incidence of dilatation of the upper renal tract was high, but only 12% of the patients with non-organic constipation had been so investigated.
practical aspects of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone administration. pulsatile administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents a major advance in the treatment of anovulation in women who fail to ovulate with clomiphene citrate and is an alternative for many women who currently receive human menopausal gonadotropin. four issues must be addressed before administering pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone: (1) safety, (2) efficacy, (3) convenience, and (4) cost. each of these issues will be affected by the three major decisions a physician makes with gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy: (1) patient selection, (2) route of administration, and (3) dose of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. the ideal candidate for gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a patient with an absence of endogenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone, as seen in hypothalamic amenorrhea. although women with polycystic ovarian disease can be treated with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone, a decreased ovulation rate should be expected. the route of administration, intravenous or subcutaneous, and the degree of monitoring can be tailored by the physician to fit each patient's needs. pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a safe, effective, convenient, and economical alternative to human menopausal gonadotropin for ovulation induction in women resistant to clomiphene.
selective uptake of toxic nucleoside (125iudr) by resistant cancer. we report uptake of a thymidine analogue 125-iodine-5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (125iudr) by nude mice bearing human xenografts of choriocarcinoma or colonic cancer. when 125iudr was given alone, uptake by intestinal tissues was 5-10 times greater than by the tumours as measured by tissue gamma counting. this ratio was reversed when hydroxyurea or cytosine arabinoside were used as inhibitors of ribonucleotide reductase and were given in combination with 5-fluorouracil or methotrexate to inhibit thymidine synthesis shortly before injecting 125iudr. counting the radioactivity in tissues removed 24 hours after 125iudr gave tumour to highest normal tissue ratios of up to 15:1, but the corresponding nuclear grain counts, which is probably a more reliable indicator of selective uptake into dna, were in excess of 100:1. the addition of unlabelled iudr to the regimen only reduced the uptake of 125iudr when given in relatively large amounts. for this approach to be exploited it is concluded that the tumour must be resistant at the cell level to the inhibitor of dna synthesis either de novo or as a result of prior exposure to it. this inhibitor can then be used to block uptake of the potentially toxic nucleoside analogue by normal renewal tissues while it is taken up by the resistant cancer cells. by inhibiting synthesis of the corresponding normal nucleosides with inhibitors to which the cancer cells are not resistant, incorporation of the toxic analogues into tumour dna was enhanced. although 125iudr is a convenient agent for exploring this approach and is highly cytotoxic when incorporated in dna, the clinical potential of reverse role chemotherapy probably lies with the development of toxic non-radioactive nucleoside analogues.
management of low-risk metastatic gestational trophoblastic tumors. the clinical course of 48 patients with low-risk metastatic gestational trophoblastic tumors (gtts) treated with primary single-agent chemotherapy was reviewed. all patients achieved sustained remission, although 25 (51%) required a second single-agent regimen, and 7 (14%) needed combination chemotherapy to achieve it. an average of 3.4 courses of chemotherapy were necessary to achieve remission, and 6 patients (12%) underwent resection of resistant tumor foci. primary single-agent chemotherapy is a reasonable treatment option in patients with low-risk metastatic gtt.
malignant melanoma of the oral cavity. a case report. the oral cavity is a rare location for the development of primary malignant melanoma. less than 2% of all malignant melanomas develop in the region. a case report is presented, illustrating the management in the site of the palate, together with a review of the relevant literature.
carotid artery disease in patients with head and neck carcinoma. irradiation has been shown experimentally to cause accelerated development of atherosclerosis in exposed large arteries. however, occurrence of such an entity in carotid arteries of patients after treatment for head and neck carcinoma is unknown. therefore, we reviewed 179 patient charts who had undergone head and neck operations with or without irradiation between 1979-1987. of these 179 patients, 107 (59.8%) were dead at time of follow-up. cause of death was unknown in 42 (40%) patients; in the remainder included: respiratory arrest--33; carcinoma-related--18; cardiac--6;pneumonia--7; and trauma--1. average interval from treatment to death was 23.5 months. of the 72 patients known to be alive, follow-up was obtained in 52 patients. their average age was 64.9 years. risk factors for atherosclerosis included: male gender--43; smoking--50; hypertension--9; diabetes--4; coronary artery disease--12; and peripheral vascular disease--4. seventy-five per cent of these patients received postoperative irradiation. average follow-up was 64.5 months. duplex scans were performed on 34 patients. three patients had common or internal carotid stenoses greater than 75 per cent. all of these patients had received irradiation and none of them were symptomatic. seven patients had carotid stenoses between 50 to 75 per cent; five of these had received irradiation. of these five patients, one had a stroke 60 months postoperatively, and one had a tia 36 months postoperatively. the remaining 58 patients (of which 48 had irradiation) had carotid stenoses less than 50 per cent and none were symptomatic.
immunocytochemical estrogen and progestin receptor assays in breast cancer with monoclonal antibodies. histopathologic, demographic, and biochemical correlations and relationship to endocrine response and survival. breast cancer specimens from 600 women were assayed for estrogen receptors (er) using an immunocytochemical assay (ica) employing the monoclonal antiestrophilin antibody h222 sp gamma. results showed significant correlation with biochemical er determinations as well as with tumor grade and menopausal status. in 449 cases, results of progesterone receptor assay by ica using the monoclonal anti-pgr antibody kd 68, also correlated significantly with biochemical pgr measurements. the erica/pgrica positivity was significantly more frequent in postmenopausal white women. colloid carcinomas were most likely to be erica positive and pgrica positive whereas medullary carcinomas were most often negative. in 47 patients with advanced mammary carcinoma, results of erica and pgrica were more closely related to endocrine response than those of er and pgr by dextran-coated charcoal assay (dcc). in 339 women with stage i or stage ii breast cancer, erica was significantly associated with disease-free survival. analysis by cox's proportional hazard model, however, showed pgrica to be the best predictor of survival and disease-free survival in 197 women at the same stages of disease. these data indicate that ica is more predictive of prognosis than biochemical er and pgr. the ease of ica performance coupled with these results indicate that the method is an acceptable substitute for dcc in analyzing breast cancers for er/pgr.
the case for porous-coated hip implants. the femoral side. a series of 1163 total hip arthroplasties (thas) using porous-coated femoral components were roentgenographically assessed for implant fixation. for 959 primary thas followed from two to 12 years, the femoral revision rate was 1% and the ten-year survivorship rate was 96.4%; 150 young patients had a fixation failure incidence of only 1.3% at a mean follow-up period of 6.4 years; in 204 revision thas, the femoral re-revision rate was 4% at a mean follow-up period of 53.4 months. failures were largely related to inadequate femoral canal filling. because of refinements in implant design and surgical techniques, a press fit of the implant is currently achieved in 94% of cases compared to 36% during the first five years. porous-coated femoral components have yielded results equivalent to those with cement in primary thas. excellent results were observed in relatively young patients and patients with revisions.
pancreatic transplantation: radiologic evaluation of vascular complications. transplantation of the pancreas is an increasingly common therapeutic option for preventing or delaying complications of type i diabetes mellitus. the authors studied the relative roles of various radiologic examinations in diagnosing vascular complications in these grafts including arterial and venous thrombosis, stenosis, and anastomotic leak (the most common vascular factors that necessitate pancreatectomy of the transplant), as defined with pathologic or arteriographic data. the results of 78 scintigraphic flow studies, 40 abdominal and pelvic computed tomographic (ct) scans, 27 sonograms, and eight color doppler studies were evaluated in 52 patients who received a total of 27 cadaveric and 26 living-donor grafts over a 12-year period. these results were correlated with the data from 45 gross and microscopic pathologic studies and 37 arteriograms to determine their relative value in enabling detection of graft thrombosis and other vascular complications. scintigraphy, ct, sonography, and color doppler were all sensitive in detection of generalized graft abnormalities but lacked specificity in defining the underlying etiologic factors.
symptoms and disease associations in idiopathic intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri): a case-control study. to identify the symptoms and coexisting medical conditions associated with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (iih), we administered an 83-item questionnaire at the time of diagnosis to 50 iih patients and 100 aged-matched controls. ninety percent of the iih patients were women; the mean age was 33. obesity and recent weight gain were much more common among patients than controls. symptoms most commonly reported by iih patients were headache (94%), transient visual obscurations (tvo) (68%), and intracranial noises (icn) (58%). daily occurrence of these symptoms was much more common among patients than controls. controls also reported these and other iih symptoms, but at lower frequencies. several conditions previously associated with iih were no more common in patients than controls including iron deficiency anemia, thyroid disease, pregnancy, antibiotic intake, and use of oral contraceptives. we conclude that previous studies of iih, mostly uncontrolled and retrospective, have underestimated the frequency of symptoms in iih patients and reported chance and spurious associations with common medical conditions and medications. the profile of a young obese woman with headaches and either tvo or icn should alert the clinician to the diagnosis of iih, especially when the symptoms occur daily.
testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation: detection of steroid hormone receptors as a possible basis for tumour development and therapeutic management. a testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation, typical of granulosa cell tumours of the adult type, was investigated immunohistologically on snap frozen and paraffin wax embedded material. the predominance of vimentin and the additional expression of cytokeratin subtypes 8 and 18, as well as the negative staining for epithelial membrane antigen, accorded with results previously reported, for ovarian granulosa cell tumours; the lack of expression of desmoplakin, however, was a distinctive feature. together with negative staining for leucocyte common antigen, the antigen pattern facilitates the differential diagnosis between granulosa cell tumour and undifferentiated carcinoma or gonadal lymphoma, although its suitability for differentiating within the group of gonadal stromal tumours seems to be limited. the small growth fraction, shown by the monoclonal antibody ki-67, is typical of the clinical behaviour of granulosa cell tumours. the expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors, also recently found in testicular leydig cell tumours, may provoke new approaches to the management of testicular granulosa cell tumours, as well as a new hypothesis on the development of these tumours.
abnormal vitamin b6 status in childhood leukemia. vitamin b6 is involved in many biological processes of potential relevance to carcinogenesis and tumor growth, including dna synthesis and maintenance of immunocompetence, yet very little information exists on b6 nutritional status in childhood leukemia. using a radioenzymatic assay, the authors measured plasma pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (plp), the biologically active form of b6, in 11 newly diagnosed untreated children with leukemia and 11 age-matched controls. the children with leukemia had significantly lower plp levels than the controls. in 26 additional leukemia patients and 26 additional controls, a high-performance liquid chromatography assay also demonstrated lower plasma plp levels in childhood leukemia compared with controls. these differences were significant for both acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and for acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (anll). the plp values did not correlate with indices of leukemia cell burden, but did correlate with reported b6 intake, suggesting that illness-related diet changes are at least partially responsible for the low plp levels. before any chemotherapy, overall nutritional status was suboptimal in 53% of all cases and 57% of anll cases. newly diagnosed children with leukemia have suboptimal overall nutrition as well as suboptimal vitamin b6 status.
superficial esophageal carcinoma. surgical treatment and the results. we report 92 patients treated with esophagectomy for superficial esophageal carcinoma (sec; 9.1% of all resected esophageal cancers at our institution). the operative mortality rate was 5.4%. in 24 cases, cancer invasion was limited to the mucosa, and in 68 to the submucosa. twenty-three patients in the former group had no lymph node involvement, whereas 24 patients (35.3%) of the latter group had lymph node metastases. the 5-year survival rate after surgery for patients with sec limited to the mucosa was 83.5%, which was significantly better than that for carcinoma invading the submucosa (54.9%). no recurrent disease occurred in patients with lesions limited to the mucosa. in conclusion, an esophagectomy with wide lymphadenectomy is necessary to provide a better prognosis for sec invading the submucosa, whereas a less extensive treatment may be considered for sec limited to the mucosa.
long-term echocardiographic follow-up of patients with a tricuspid bioprosthesis. to clarify the long-term results of bioprosthetic valve function in the tricuspid position, 29 consecutive patients who underwent tricuspid valve replacement (tvr) were evaluated. there were 20 girls/women and 9 boys/men, with ages ranging from 6 to 61 years (mean 41.4 years). the bioprosthetic valves included hancock in 2, and carpentier-edwards in 27. the follow-up period ranged from 32 to 145 months (mean 89 months). regurgitant flow of the tricuspid bioprosthesis was studied by color doppler echocardiography. peak velocity (vp) and pressure half time (pht) were measured by continuous wave doppler echocardiography. operative mortality was 13.7% (4/29), with the actuarial survival rate, including operative deaths, 75% at 10 years. valve thrombosis developed in one patient 4 years after tvr. color doppler showed regurgitation in 7 of the 20 patients who were completely followed up, but they were all asymptomatic and required no special intervention. cusp tear or calcification requiring reoperation was not observed in this study, including 8 patients younger than 35 years of age. the vp was significantly slower, and pht was significantly prolonged, in the tricuspid rather than the mitral position. these data demonstrate that bioprosthetic valves in the tricuspid position can be used safely. doppler examination should be performed taking these different flow dynamics into account.
human ehrlichiosis: a rickettsial disease associated with severe cholestasis and multisystemic disease. we report an unusual case of a typically canine rickettsial disease, ehrlichiosis, in a 56-year-old man. although only occasionally affecting humans with a mild illness, exposure to a tick bite in our patient led to severe multisystemic disease with intense cholestasis. coma, acute renal failure and respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation ensued. imaging procedures showed no biliary obstruction. a liver biopsy demonstrated bile stasis and sinusoidal lymphoid infiltrates. the diagnosis was confirmed serologically. only partial improvement occurred with tetracycline therapy, but total resolution of all abnormalities eventually followed therapy with chloramphenicol.
circus movement atrial flutter in the canine sterile pericarditis model. differential effects of procainamide on the components of the reentrant pathway. to evaluate the mechanisms of action of procainamide on the components of the reentrant pathway, drug-induced changes in activation patterns, effective refractory periods (erps), and stimulation thresholds were analyzed in nine dogs with sterile pericarditis and sustained atrial flutter. activation maps were based on 127 close bipolar recordings from a special "jacket" electrode. from the control map, 22 +/- 2 sites covering the slow zone and the normal zone of the reentrant circuit were selected to measure erps and thresholds. the excitable gap was estimated from the longest erp during pacing at the tachycardia cycle length. during atrial flutter, epicardial activation proceeded as a single wave around an arc of functional conduction block in the proximity of the atrioventricular (av) ring or around a combined functional/anatomic obstacle, with the arc being contiguous with one of the venae cavae. an area of slow conduction, which accounted for 53 +/- 15% of the revolution time within 35 +/- 15% of the total length of the reentrant pathway, was bordered by the arc of block and the av ring or a caval vein and the av ring, respectively. procainamide (5-10 mg/kg i.v.) prolonged the cycle length of atrial flutter from 144 +/- 17 to 190 +/- 24 msec (p less than 0.05) and then terminated the arrhythmia in all studies. the increase in cycle length was due to an increase in conduction time in the slow zone by 37 +/- 11 msec (86 +/- 17% of the total cycle length increase). during the last reentrant beat, conduction failed in the slow zone, with the arc of block joining the av ring. at termination, procainamide had prolonged conduction time, stimulation threshold, and erp in the normal zone by 11 +/- 18%, 40 +/- 80%, and 5 +/- 15%, respectively, compared with 51 +/- 16%, 86 +/- 93%, and 14 +/- 21%, respectively, in the slow zone (p less than 0.05 for all three parameters). the duration of the excitable gap did not change significantly. we conclude that procainamide preferentially affected the slow zone of single loop reentrant circuits. the drug terminated circus movement atrial flutter without abolishing the excitable gap, and its effect on conduction seemed the major determinant of the antiarrhythmic action.
alcohol consumption and blood pressure: a comparison of native japanese to american men. we compared the cross-sectional association of alcohol consumption with blood pressure in 810 japanese men (jm) living in tokyo and 946 white men (wm) living in new york. mean systolic (jm and wm, p less than 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (jm, p less than 0.002; wm, p less than 0.001) were associated with alcohol consumption in both groups. compared to abstainers, the heaviest drinkers had the highest systolic (jm, p = 0.001; wm, p less than 0.01) and diastolic (jm, p less than 0.002; wm, p less than 0.05) blood pressures. the relation of blood pressure to alcohol intake was j-shaped in the americans, but linear in the japanese. exploratory analyses revealed that the j-shape may have been due to under-reporting of heavy alcohol ingestion by american abstainers. when abstainers were excluded, the relationships were similar in both the american and japanese. the positive association between blood pressure and alcohol consumption persisted after adjustment for age, cigarette smoking, use of antihypertensive medications, body mass index, heart rate, abdominal skinfold thickness, hematocrit, fasting blood glucose, serum uric acid levels and urinary sodium/potassium ratio. alcohol use was also related to prevalence of hypertension. these findings confirm the presence of an independent association between alcohol intake and blood pressure in both jm and wm and suggest that, despite differences in the metabolism of alcohol, the relation of alcohol consumption to blood pressure is similar in both nationalities.
plasma thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes in the diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma complicating liver cirrhosis. detection of hypercoagulable state might be helpful in the diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) complicating liver cirrhosis (lc). plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex (tat) were determined in 50 patients of lc with or without hcc. the levels were above 2 ng/ml in 80% of 25 hcc patients, but only in 12% of 25 non-hcc patients (p less than 0.01). the levels over 2 ng/ml occurred even in five of six hcc patients whose serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were below 20 ng/ml as well as in two of three patients with hcc less than 2 cm in diameter. those levels in hcc patients were significantly decreased within 8 days after treatment with transcatheter arterial embolization or infusion of antitumor agents, without affecting plasma antithrombin iii levels. these results suggest that plasma tat levels may be useful in the diagnosis of hcc complicating lc.
effective destruction of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) 3 at 100 degrees c using the semm cold coagulator: 14 years experience a total of 1628 women with cin 3 treated with the semm cold coagulator between 1975 and 1989 was followed primarily by cytology. the standard suitability criteria for ablation were adhered to except that patients were treated at their first visit when the colposcopist expected that the diagnosis would be no worse than cin 3. overall 97% of the women were treated at their first visit. in 30 women (2%) the histology was glandular or worse than expected, but 22 of these showed no persistent cervical disease subsequently. follow-up was achieved for 87% at 10 years. in actuarial terms the primary success rate was 95% at 1 year and 92% at 5 years, it was similar for all age groups. repeat cold-coagulation for persistent/recurrent cin 3 was less successful and is not advised. the outcome for 226 pregnancies established after treatment is known. the rates for miscarriage, preterm or operative delivery were not increased. cold-coagulation of cin 3 at 100 degrees c as performed by us is as effective as any other treatment and calls into question the need for more expensive practices.
common headaches: type, duration, frequency and implications. questionnaires completed by 327 preclinical medical and dental students showed that 97.9% had experienced headaches, most frequently attributed to insufficient sleep (38.8%), mental stress (38.8%), alcohol (38.5%), excess heat (36.7%), reading (31.5%), excess noise (29.9%) or light (27.7%), and sleeping too long (23.5%). the frequency and duration of these and other headaches are listed. 8% of the headache group had consulted a doctor. only 2.1% of all students had never experienced a headache. two hypotheses are examined: (1) can headaches be normal?--delineated by their disappearing soon after the noxious stimulus has ceased; (2) can pain in the head, as elsewhere in the body, act as a warning and therefore have protective, even survival value?.
correlation between hyperthermoradiosensitivity and clinical effect in carcinoma of the esophagus. the correlation between hyperthermoradiosensitivity evaluated by an in vitro succinate dehydrogenase inhibition (sdi) test and the histopathologic effects of hyperthermochemoradiotherapy (hcr therapy) were investigated in 43 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus. the succinate dehydrogenase (sd) activity of tissue fragments taken at biopsy was assayed after exposure to heat (43 degrees c.) and radiation (6 grays) was done. the sensitivity to radiation plus heat treatment was estimated by the percentage of sd activity of the treated cells, compared with that of the control cells. the 43 patients were divided into three groups according to the degree of sd activity after exposure to radiation plus heat treatment. the sd activity was less than 50 per cent in group 1 (highly sensitive), between 50 and 70 per cent in group 2 (moderately sensitive), more than 70 per cent in group 3 (less sensitive). eighteen of 20 in group 1, 11 of 17 in group 2 and two of six in group 3 were classified as being histopathologically "effective" for hcr therapy. the two year survival rate for groups 1, 2 and 3 were 55.5, 34.9 and zero per cent, respectively, while there were no statistical differences with regard to prognostic factors. these data suggest that in vitro activities of sd correlate well with the clinical effectiveness of hcr therapy. therefore, it is recommended that a sd inhibition test be included among the guidelines for clinical management.
tyrosine kinase and control of cell proliferation. the usefulness of phosphotyrosine antibodies for the detection of physiologically regulated or deregulated tyrosine kinases is discussed in this report. this rather rare enzymatic activity is shared by receptors for some polypeptide growth factors and by the products of class 1 oncogenes. the antibodies are able to detect proteins phosphorylated on tyrosine in fibroblasts stimulated with growth factors such as egf and pdgf. the major phosphorylated protein species are the receptors themselves, which undergo phosphorylation only after the addition of the exogenous factor and only transiently. phosphotyrosine antibodies were able to detect the products of the retroviral class 1 oncogenes, which are endowed with deregulated tyrosine kinase activity. in fact, in these cases a constitutive phosphorylation of the relevant proteins was observed, which occurred continuously and independently of the presence or lack of exogenous ligands. a tyrosine kinase constitutively activated in human gastric carcinoma cells was detected by p-tyr antibodies. this molecule has been characterized at the molecular level, and the mechanisms responsible for its enzymatic activation have been investigated. the question of whether the tyrosine kinase identified is responsible for the induction and the maintenance of the transformed phenotype in gastric carcinomas remains to be answered. it is reasonable to suggest that this might be the case by analogy with other situations such as class 1 oncogenes activated by transduction by retroviruses, abnormal expression of egf receptors, or deregulated activity of c-abl-encoded proteins in chronic myelogenous leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. thus, the search for deregulated kinases by means of phosphotyrosine antibodies seems to be useful for identifying new activated oncogenes in clinical oncology.
secretion of a unique collagen by spontaneously transformed murine keratinocytes (pam cells) in vitro. a spontaneously transformed murine keratinocyte cell line (pam cell) was found to secrete two nondisulfide-linked collagenous polypeptides with apparent molecular weight (mw) 190-kd and 120-kd. pulse-chase experiments indicated that the 190-kd polypeptide was secreted into the culture medium in 2 h and processed to the 120-kd collagen component within 4 h. this process was inhibited by edta. the 120-kd polypeptide was sensitive to pepsin, and a 50-kd fragment was produced by a mild pepsin treatment at 4 degrees c. a cyanogen bromide peptide map of the 120-kd polypeptide was distinct from that of types i, ii, iii, iv, and v collagens. these properties indicate similarities to the type viii-related collagen produced by human astrocytoma cells. the secretion of the collagen rapidly reached a maximum level on the first day of culture and subsequently declined with cell proliferation. an accelerated processing to the 120-kd polypeptide was observed under culture conditions of high cell density. similar collagens were also found to be produced by normal human keratinocytes. these results indicate that the 120-kd polypeptide is a potentially functional protein that may participate in the formation of the extracellular matrix of keratinocytes.
11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione: a marker of adrenal function in hirsutism. to assess the role of the adrenal glands in the development of hirsutism, levels of 11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione (11 beta-oha), 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (17-ohp), dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (dheas), androstenedione (delta 4a), and free and total testosterone (t) were measured in 63 hirsute females and 30 control patients. six of the hirsute patients had basal levels of 11 beta-oha and 17-ohp and responses to adrenocorticotropic hormone that were significantly greater than these values in controls and the other hirsute women. these women were designated as having an adrenal source for their hirsutism. women with polycystic ovarian syndrome and idiopathic hirsutism had normal values of 11 beta-oha and 17-ohp. levels of total and free t, dheas and delta 4a were significantly higher than control values in all of the hirsute women. this study demonstrates that 11 beta-oha can be used as a marker to assess the adrenal contribution to hirsutism.
obstructive sleep apnea following topical oropharyngeal anesthesia in loud snorers. previous studies support the presence of an upper airway reflex mechanism that contributes to the maintenance of upper airway patency during sleep. we investigated the possibility that interference with this reflex mechanism contributes to the development of obstructive sleep apnea. eight otherwise asymptomatic snorers (seven male and one female), age 39 +/- 5.3 yr (mean +/- sem), underwent overnight sleep studies on three successive nights. an acclimatization night was followed by two study nights randomly assigned to control (c) and oropharyngeal anesthesia (opa). on the opa night topical anesthesia was induced using 10% lidocaine spray and 0.25% bupivacaine gargle. a saline placebo was used on night c. all subjects slept well on both study nights (mean sleep duration was 6.2 h on both study nights), and sleep stage distribution was similar on both nights. obstructive apneas and hypopneas (oah) rose from 114 +/- 43 during c to 170 +/- 49 during opa (p less than 0.02). central apneas and hypopneas (cah) were unchanged between the two nights (8 +/- 4.9 versus 7 +/- 3). the duration of oah was similar on both study nights (20 +/- 1.9 s during c versus 20 +/- 1.5 s during opa). the frequency of movement arousals terminating oah tended to be higher during opa (7 +/- 2.9/h) than during c (3 +/- 0.7); p = ns. the frequency of oxyhemoglobin desaturations was also higher during opa (5 +/- 2.1/h) than during c (3 +/- 1.4), p less than 0.07.
pseudocyst of the auricle: successful treatment with intracartilaginous trichloroacetic acid and button bolsters. pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic, noninflammatory cystic swelling that typically involves the anthelix of the ear and results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity. we report a patient with a recurrent pseudocyst of the auricle and describe a new surgical technique for treating this condition by applying 50% trichloroacetic acid to the intracartilaginous cavity and utilizing external button bolsters for compressive therapy. this therapeutic approach is simple to perform in the office, results in permanent resolution of the pseudocyst, preserves the normal architecture of the external ear, and provides excellent postoperative and long-term cosmetic results.
expression of the mdr1 gene in human gastric and colorectal carcinomas. we measured expression of the mdr1 gene (also known as the pgy1 gene) in the human gastrointestinal tract. mdr1 messenger rna (mrna) levels were elevated in 13 of 15 colorectal carcinoma specimens and in six of 13 gastric carcinoma specimens. well-differentiated colorectal carcinomas contained significantly higher concentrations of mdr1 mrna than moderately differentiated colorectal carcinomas. similarly, moderately differentiated gastric carcinomas contained higher concentrations of mdr1 mrna than poorly differentiated gastric carcinomas. mdr1 gene expression in normal colorectal and gastric tissues adjacent to carcinomas was similar to that in the carcinomas. mdr1 gene expression in xenografts of colorectal and gastric carcinomas in nude mice was also investigated. elevated expression of the mdr1 gene was seen in only four of 18 xenografts of colorectal carcinoma and was not seen in any xenografts of gastric carcinoma. p-glycoprotein was distributed over the luminal surface of the colorectal carcinoma. these results imply that the higher levels of mdr1 mrna found in well-differentiated carcinomas derived from colorectal tissues are the results of increased expression of the mdr1 gene in the luminal surface cells. the level of expression of the mdr1 gene in colorectal and gastric carcinomas appears to correlate with the degree of differentiation and also appears to be affected by transplantation into nude mice.
prognostic factors in alcoholic liver disease. va cooperative study group. two hundred eighty-one alcoholic patients were prospectively evaluated by clinical, biochemical, and histologic parameters during a 4-yr period to assess their prognosis. they were stratified into four categories of injury: 1) fatty liver (26 patients), 2) acute alcoholic hepatitis (106), 3) cirrhosis (39), and 4) cirrhosis with superimposed alcoholic hepatitis (111). the rate of survival and variables correlating with survival varied according to the group. at 48 months, 70% of the patients with fatty liver were alive, 58% in the alcoholic hepatitis group, 49% in cirrhosis, and 35% in alcoholic hepatitis superimposed upon cirrhosis. within group one, deaths were due to causes unrelated to liver disease. in the alcoholic hepatitis group, factors significantly correlating with survival were ascites, alanine amino-transferase levels, grams of alcohol consumed, continuation of alcohol intake, and clinical severity of disease. survival in patients of group three correlated significantly with prothrombin time and histologic severity score. patients with combined cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis exhibited the worst prognosis, with the most significant predictors of survival being age, grams of alcohol consumed, the ratio of serum aminotransferases (ast:alt) and the histologic and clinical severity of the disease. although a different pattern of correlates was observed for each pathologic level of injury, knowledge of the various correlates aids in prognostic assessment.
haemostatic changes in the loin pain and haematuria syndrome: secondary to renal vasospasm? twenty-five patients (seven male, 18 female) were diagnosed as having the loin pain and haematuria syndrome. presenting symptoms were either loin pain alone or pain associated with macroscopic or microscopic haematuria, and were longstanding, having been present for mean of 9.3 years in males, and 10 years in females. ten patients described symptoms of passing gravel or renal stones but these were only demonstrated radiologically in two patients. investigation of all patients showed anatomically normal renal tracts, normal renal function, and no significant proteinuria. phase-contrast microscopy during episodes of haematuria revealed dysmorphic red cells in all 10 patients studied. renal biopsies were performed in 20 patients and showed no glomerular pathology, but arteriolar and arterial hyalinosis was seen in 13 of 20 (65 per cent), fibro-elastosis in larger vessels in eight of 20 (40 per cent) and red blood cells in tubules in 13 of 20 (65 per cent) patients. the histological appearance in vessels was similar to that seen in cyclosporin a nephrotoxicity and would be consistent with the hypothesis that regional vasospasm occurs in the cortical circulation. haematological studies in 22 patients, when compared with age and sex matched controls, showed the presence of circulating platelet aggregates, elevation of plasma beta-thromboglobulin (p less than 0.001), and increased platelet aggregation in response to serotonin and adp (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.03, respectively). plasma concentrations of d dimer (p less than 0.02) and c-reactive protein (p less than 0.03) were also significantly elevated in the patient group. there was no deterioration of renal function during a mean observation period of 3.7 years and no patients developed proteinuria. treatment was largely supportive; seven patients with intractable loin pain underwent surgical denervation with the relief of pain in four.
isolated erythroid hypoplasia and renal insufficiency induced by long-term griseofulvin therapy. we describe a patient with hematuria, pyuria, eosinophiluria, decreased renal function, and severe anemia that developed while she was receiving chronic therapy with griseofulvin for onychomycosis. we offer evidence that griseofulvin can cause an isolated erythroid hypoplasia and possibly an allergic interstitial nephritis. this is the first documented case of the above entities induced by the agent. we would recommend, based on our report, that otherwise healthy patients, when maintained on the drug for extended periods of time, have periodic determinations of renal function and hematologic status. as drug-induced erythroid hypoplasia typically occurs after a relatively long period of dosing, it may be prudent in certain individuals to monitor the cbc at approximately bimonthly intervals after initiation of therapy. recommendations regarding monitoring of renal function are more difficult, as acute allergic interstitial nephritis can occur after either short- or long-term exposure to certain drugs.
the mechanism of heart failure caused by cardiac allograft rejection. rejection of the cardiac allograft is often associated with reversible myocardial failure, the mechanism of which is not understood. we have examined this phenomenon in a small animal model that provides the opportunity for multimodality study of the rejection process. heterotopic cardiac transplantation was performed in the lewis rat with lewis x brown-norway (allografts) or lewis (isografts) donors. without immunosuppression, allografts are completely rejected in 6 to 8 days. at 3 days cardiac grafts were explanted and mounted on a modified langendorff apparatus for functional measurements or submitted for pathologic examination and biochemical determination of high-energy phosphates. three-day isografts (n = 9) had minimal histologic changes. pathologic examination of 3-day allografts (n = 13) showed lymphocytic infiltrate and myocyte necrosis, histologic features for which antirejection treatment is usually given clinically. for grafts subjected to functional studies (n = 11), heart rate, cardiac output, coronary flow, and stroke work were determined at baseline and in response to isoproterenol (3 x 10(-8) mol/ml). three-day allografts (n = 6) and isografts (n = 5) had similar baseline function. the chronotropic response to isoproterenol was similar in allografts and isografts, but allografts had diminished cardiac output and stroke work after isoproterenol. adenosine triphosphate levels were normal (41.9 nmol/mg) in 3-day allografts (n = 4). we have evaluated functional, biochemical, and pathologic changes associated with myocardial dysfunction during heterotopic cardiac transplant rejection in a small animal. this model reproducibly demonstrates diminished contractile reserve in 3-day allografts with normal baseline function and high-energy stores but histologically significant rejection.
influence of doppler sample volume location on the assessment of changes in mitral inflow velocity profiles. previous studies that have validated doppler indexes of mitral inflow have used pulsed wave sample volume locations either at the level of the mitral valve anulus or at the tips of the mitral valve leaflets. although significant differences between absolute values for peak velocities and velocity time integrals at these sample volume locations have previously been reported, no information exists that has compared changes in inflow profiles after an intervention to improve left ventricular filling. to address this question, 13 patients with severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure, 50 +/- 13 mm hg) caused by chronic thromboembolic disease were studied with use of doppler echocardiography immediately before and after surgical reduction of pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 916 +/- 413 to 233 +/- 89 dynes.sec.cm5). this clinical model has been shown to have abnormal mitral inflow velocity profiles that improve markedly after surgery. doppler measures of early and late peak velocities were significantly lower both before and after surgery when sampling at the mitral anulus compared with the leaflet tips, although late filling parameters and the deceleration of early flow velocity tended to differ little. with surgery, the significant increase in peak early velocity and the ratio of early to late velocity was present regardless of the sample volume location (peak e at leaflet tips, 47.1 +/- 16.0 to 68.9 +/- 15.4 [p less than 0.001], and at anulus, 40.7 +/- 11.3 to 56.2 +/- 14.6 cm/sec [p less than 0.001]; peak e/a at leaflet tips, 0.95 +/- 0.4 to 1.55 +/- 0.9, and at anulus, 0.78 +/- 0.3 to 1.32 +/- 0.7 [both p less than 0.02]).
oral labetalol in hypertensive urgencies. the response to incremental doses of oral labetalol in 16 patients with hypertensive urgencies is presented. after inadequate blood pressure control with 20 mg of intravenous furosemide, each patient received a 300 mg oral dose of labetalol. subsequent oral doses of labetalol, 100 mg, were administered at 2-hour intervals, if the diastolic blood pressure remained greater than 100 mm hg. the maximum dose of labetalol per patient was 500 mg. five patients required only the initial 300 mg dose of labetalol. two patients required further therapy for satisfactory blood pressure control. mean arterial pressure fell from 156 +/- 12 mm hg to 123 +/- 14 mm hg.
bcr/abl recombinant dna analysis versus karyotype in the diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of chronic myeloid leukemia. karyotype and bcr/abl recombinant dna analyses are two means of detecting the chromosomal aberration in chronic myeloid leukemia. the authors compared these two methods in a retrospective study of 36 patients with cml in which they found the bcr/abl dna recombinant event in 100% (29 of 29) of those patients who had the philadelphia chromosome. to achieve this sensitivity, a battery of two bcr probes and three restriction enzymes is necessary. the authors propose a sequential algorithm for efficient use of these probes and enzymes. in 76% of the patients, bcr/abl rearrangement can be detected with a bgl ii digest and a 3' commercial probe. an additional 21% of patients can be detected by a second assay in which the same membrane is rehybridized to a 3' and 5' combination bcr probe. one patient (3%) required an additional restriction enzyme digest with bamh i to detect the recombinant event by the same 3' probe. karyotype analysis is used to determine cytogenetic remission in patients with cml under therapy. the authors studied the use of dna analysis by the southern blot technique to detect a decrease in the relative number of leukemic cells. by dilution studies and densitometric scanning of autoradiographs, the authors were able to detect a 15% decrease in the relative number of cells having the bcr/abl recombinant event. the authors report the preliminary results of three patients in whom they compared the karyotype and recombinant dna analysis at multiple time points in their clinical course. in conclusion, the bcr/abl recombinant dna analysis is superior to karyotype for the diagnosis of cml and can be used for monitoring treated patients.
forces of change in the health care system. implications for cancer care in the 1990s. dramatic changes will occur in the health care system during the 1990s which will profoundly affect the delivery of care for cancer. perhaps the most important factor is the aging of the population. as the proportion of people who achieve old age increases, the absolute prevalence and incidence of cancer will increase despite improved treatment techniques. this phenomenon will increase health care expenditures despite ongoing efforts to control costs. second, there will be continuing efforts at cost control and increased emphasis on quality assurance and outcomes by third party payers. providers will be scrutinized and compared with one another. the large payers of the nation's health care bills will demand proof of outcome and cost leading to bidding by providers and payment only to those who have the best outcome for the least money. third, there will be an increasing emphasis on prevention and screening, in public health policy, an approach that may conflict with personal freedom. fourth, there will be increasing deliberations and questions about the ethics of the health care system and treatment decisions. there will be continuing debate about the need for a rationing of health care and the right of individual privacy versus the states' right to preserve life. these changes will impact on all health care professionals whose practice includes patients with cancer.
pancreatic ascites: treatment by continuous somatostatin infusion. two male patients with recurrent acute pancreatitis due to alcohol abuse were admitted with pancreatic ascites (high concentration of amylase, raised protein concentration, no specific cytologic features). ultrasound (us) and computed tomography (ct) confirmed gross ascites and inflammation of the pancreas in both patients, and a pseudocyst in the head of the pancreas in one of them. treatment with total parenteral nutrition (tpn) and a h2-blocking agent was instituted and continued for 4 and 2 wk, respectively. due to lack of improvement, somatostatin infusion (250 micrograms/h) was started. during the next few days, there was a rapid improvement of the clinical status, and the production of ascites ceased. we conclude that somatostatin infusion should be tried before any invasive diagnostic or therapeutic intervention in patients with pancreatic ascites.
partial cytochrome b deficiency and generalized dystonia. an 18-year-old female had clinical features of idiopathic torsion dystonia with bilateral hypodense putaminal lesions on computed tomography. mitochondrial encephalomyopathy was suspected because of persistent lactic acidemia and myopathy. studies of oxidative metabolism on isolated skeletal muscle mitochondria revealed partial cytochrome b deficiency indicating a defect in the cytochrome b- c1 complex. this finding represents a unique, multisystem syndrome of progressive dystonia, putaminal degeneration, myopathy, and mitochondrial cytochrome b deficiency. mitochondrial metabolic disorders may be a cause of torsion dystonia when other known associated factors are absent.
carboplatin in childhood brain tumors. a children's cancer study group phase ii trial. between october 1985 and march 1988, children's cancer study group institutions entered 95 patients with recurrent brain tumors into a phase ii trial of carboplatin 560 mg/m2 every 4 weeks. complete or partial responses were observed for one of 19 evaluable children with brainstem glioma, two of 14 with ependymoma, six of 19 with medulloblastoma or central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pnet), and none of 15 with high-grade astrocytoma. of 33 children with medulloblastoma, ependymoma, or central nervous system pnet, five of 12 with no prior cisplatin exposure had responses, and two of 21 with prior cisplatin exposure had responses (p = 0.03). thirty-four percent of patients had absolute neutrophil count nadirs less than 500/microliters, and 37% had platelet count nadirs less than 25,000/microliters. sixteen percent had moderate to severe otoxicity, 10% had nausea and vomiting, and none had nephrotoxicity.
efficacy of induction therapy in cadaveric renal transplantation comparing rabbit antithymocyte serum and minnesota antilymphoblast globulin. from august 1986 to july 1989, 98 patients receiving primary cadaveric kidney transplants received either rats (n = 50) or malg (n = 48) during the induction phase of a quadruple immunosuppressive protocol. patient groups were well matched. the duration of rats and malg treatment and the time of cya induction were equivalent. serum creatinine and rejection episodes up to 1 year were not statistically different. hematologic side effects resulted in dose reduction of malg in 42% of patients without adverse rejection results. in the rats group, no dosage reductions were required. one-year patient survivals (96% to 100%), and 1-year graft survival (82% to 85%) were not significantly different in the 2 groups. infectious complications were 30% higher in the malg group and a significant factor in 2 deaths. monitoring of lymphocyte subsets revealed insignificant differences in the percent of decrease of each cell population between malg and rats groups during induction.
prognostic factors and value of adjunctive nephrectomy in patients with stage iv renal cell carcinoma. we reviewed 57 cases of stage iv renal cell carcinoma to clarify the factors influencing prognosis and to evaluate the value of nephrectomy. cumulative survival from the initial diagnosis was analyzed with respect to the patients' age, sex, side of primary tumor, initial performance status (ps), site of metastasis, and nephrectomy. overall survival for the patients was 51 percent at one year, 22 percent at three years, and 11 percent at five years. age, sex, and side of primary tumor had no influence on survival. improved survival was correlated with good ps, metastases limited to single organ, and removal of the primary tumor. with regard to histopathologic features in nephrectomized patients, low grade and stage were correlated with longer survival. these factors should be considered in the analysis of results of future clinical trials of metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
natural history of cardiac rhabdomyoma in infancy and childhood. although spontaneous regression of cardiac rhabdomyoma has been reported, prognosis is still considered to be poor and surgery continues to be indicated. the experience with rhabdomyoma diagnosed in live infants over a 20-year period was reviewed. diagnosis by angiography or echocardiography was accepted only if multiple tumors were present or if tuberous sclerosis was also diagnosed. nine patients (3 diagnosed prenatally and the remaining 6 at age less than 8 months) were identified as having a total of 24 tumors. measurements in 2 planes demonstrated at least some evidence of regression in 24 patients (100%), with 20 of 24 having complete resolution. one patient required delayed surgery for excision of a subaortic ridge that appeared at the site of a resolved tumor. our findings suggest that pediatric cardiac rhabdomyoma is most often a benign condition in which spontaneous regression is the rule. surgery is recommended only for patients with refractory dysrhythmias or severe hemodynamic compromise.
regurgitant jet size by transesophageal compared with transthoracic doppler color flow imaging. combined echocardiography and doppler color flow mapping from transthoracic imaging windows has become the standard method for the noninvasive assessment of valvular regurgitation. this study compared regurgitant jet areas by doppler color flow imaging derived from the newer transesophageal approach with measurements obtained from conventional transthoracic apical views. maximal regurgitant jet area determinations and an overall visual estimate of lesion severity were obtained from 42 patients who underwent color flow examination by both techniques. seventy-three regurgitant lesions were visualized by transesophageal flow imaging: 34 mitral, 22 aortic, and 17 tricuspid jets. transthoracic studies in the same patients revealed fewer regurgitant lesions for each valve; 20 mitral, 16 aortic, and 12 tricuspid (p = 0.0009). a comparison of maximal jet areas determined by transesophageal and transthoracic studies showed a good overall correlation (r = 0.85, see = 2.8 cm2) and a systematic overestimation by the transesophageal technique (tee = 0.96 ttx + 2.7). for the subgroup with mitral insufficiency, valve lesions visualized by both techniques were larger by the transesophageal approach (n = 18, 6.0 versus 3.6 cm2, p = 0.008). semiquantitative visual grading of individual valve lesions by two independent observers revealed a higher grade of regurgitation with more jets classified as mild (38 versus 25), moderate (18 versus 13), and severe (17 versus 10) by esophageal imaging than by transthoracic imaging. thus, transesophageal color flow mapping techniques yield a higher prevalence of valvular regurgitation than do transthoracic techniques in the same patients. jet area and the overall estimate of regurgitant lesion severity were also greater by transesophageal color doppler imaging compared with standard transthoracic imaging.
oral contraceptive therapy and the surgical management of ent patients: a review of current clinical practice. the current policy of british otolaryngologists with regard to the preoperative cessation of the oral contraceptive pill is reported. this is based on a confidential questionnaire sent to all members of the british association of otolaryngologists. the overall response rate was 66%, 91% of which were from practising otolaryngologists and forms the basis of this report, the remaining 9% being from respondents not engaged in active surgery. although there is evidence to show an increased risk of developing thromboembolic complications after major abdominal, gynaecological and hip surgery in those patients taking the oestrogen-containing contraceptive pill, the risk following minor and intermediate surgery (which forms the bulk of the otolaryngologist's workload) is not known. not surprisingly therefore the results of the survey show a varied policy across the country with 36.5% of respondents choosing to continue the pill and 25% always stopping the pill preoperatively. the remainder elect to stop the pill only in certain circumstances.
the relationship of papanicolaou testing and contacts with the medical care system to stage at diagnosis of cervical cancer. the relationship of papanicolaou (pap) testing and physician visits to stage at diagnosis of cervical cancer was assessed by interviews with 149 women with invasive cervical cancer and 214 women with in situ cervical cancer. a significantly smaller percent of study subjects with invasive disease than in situ disease had at least one pap test in the 3 years prior to diagnosis (age- and race-adjusted odds ratio: 3.38). the two groups did not differ in visits to a physician for other reasons during this period. pap testing decreased with increasing age for both groups, but not physician visits. while 65% percent of the subjects with invasive disease aged between 65 and 79 years had never had a pap test until diagnosis, 88% had seen a physician in the preceding 3 years. women with regional or distant invasive disease were least likely to have had pap tests, and, within this group, those aged between 35 and 64 years were also least likely to have seen a physician. strategies for early detection must reflect missed opportunities and the need to bring those not receiving care into the system.
the hazards of surgical glove dusting powders. surgical contaminants of many kinds, including glove powder, constitute a source of formation of granulomas. this is particularly well-documented in the peritoneal cavity ("starch peritonitis"), but has been documented in most anatomic sites. the production of starch-free gloves should remove this hazard, but the surgeon should remain aware that most particulate substances introduced into the body inevitably set up an inflammatory response.
diurnal fluctuations of arterial ketone body ratio in normal subjects and patients with liver dysfunction. to explore the metabolic aspects of chronic liver disease, diurnal changes of arterial ketone body ratio (acetoacetate/3-hydroxybutyrate), reflecting hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were investigated in normal subjects, patients with chronic liver disease (child's class a or b), and patients with hepatic failure (child's class c). ketone body ratio in normal subjects increased after breakfast from 0.96 to 2.00, after lunch from 2.17 to 2.38, and after dinner from 1.23 to 2.55 with blood glucose level ranging from 103 to 141 mg/dl (5.7 to 7.8 mmol/l). by contrast, the ketone body ratio in the child a or b group changed little and remained within a range of 0.70-1.35 despite a large change in blood glucose level from 102 to 176 mg/dl (5.7 to 9.8 mmol/l). ketone body ratio in child's class c remained near or below 0.4 with no response to glucose administration, despite a marked elevation in blood glucose level. these results indicate that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential undergoes diurnal changes in sharp response to meals in normal liver function but that these fluctuations are absent in patients with liver damage (child's class a, b, and c). furthermore, it remains at low levels in severe liver failure (child's class c). it is also suggested that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential plays an important role in the regulation of blood glucose levels.
immunohistologic detection of the epidermal growth factor receptor in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. epidermal growth factor receptor (egf-r) expression was studied immunohistologically in 38 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the egf-r was faintly expressed in basal and parabasal layers of normal esophageal epithelia and in cancer nests of 20 patients; it was strongly expressed in all areas of dysplastic epithelia and in cancer nests of 18 patients. the patients with strongly expressed egf-r had lymph node metastases more frequently, and their prognosis was poorer than those with faintly expressed egf-r. the egf-r expression showed a mosaic pattern in 17 patients and a diffuse pattern in 21 patients. the patients with a mosaic pattern had lymph node metastases more frequently and a worse prognosis than those with a diffuse pattern. expression of egf-r in metastatic lymph nodes was similar to that in strongly expressing areas of primary cancers with a mosaic pattern. thus egf-r expression may be an important indicator for malignancies of esophageal squamous cell carcinomas because primary cancer cells with strongly expressed egf-r metastasize to lymph nodes more frequently.
an effective treatment protocol for intraarterial drug injection. between 1972 and 1988, 48 patients with extremity ischemia after an intraarterial drug injection were treated with the following protocol: heparin, dextran 40, dexamethasone, elevation, and early mobilization of the extremity. a tissue ischemia score, derived by assessing the color, capillary refill, sensory function, and temperature of the extremity, was used to assess the ischemic injury. each sign was scored either normal = 0 or abnormal = 1; then summed to provide the tissue ischemia score (range, 0 to 4). twenty-four (50%) patients had an extremity tissue ischemia score less than or equal to 2. after treatment 22 of the 24 patients had a normal extremity, and 2 required limited digital amputations. in this group, outcome was comparable regardless of the time interval from intraarterial drug injection to treatment. ten of 24 (50%) patients with an extremity tissue ischemia score greater than 2 had a normal extremity, 3 had a functional deficit, and 11 required digital amputations. twelve of the 24 patients were treated within 24 hours and had a significantly superior outcome when compared to the 12 who were treated more than 24 hours after intraarterial drug injection (p less than 0.001, fisher's exact test). the tissue ischemia score is a useful predictor of extremity outcome in patients with intraarterial drug injection. the outlined treatment protocol is effective in minimizing tissue injury caused by intraarterial drug injection. institution of treatment within 24 hours of intraarterial drug injection is particularly important in patients who manifest severe ischemia.
renal vascular disease in african-americans and other racial minorities. hypertensive end-stage renal disease is about 10-fold more common nationwide in african-americans than in caucasians and 17-fold higher in some sections of the united states. these figures are alarming and require a much greater effort in understanding the causes of this disparity and improving blood pressure control in this population to prevent catastrophic renal damage. more information is also needed about the renovascular status of other minorities. financial obstacles to antihypertensive care appear to be an important contributing factor to the disparities of end-stage renal disease in african-americans and perhaps other minorities.
species-dependent effects of adenosine on heart rate and atrioventricular nodal conduction. mechanism and physiological implications. this study 1) compares the negative chronotropic and dromotropic actions of adenosine in guinea pig, rat, and rabbit hearts; 2) investigates the mechanism(s) for the different responses; and 3) determines the physiological implications. isolated perfused hearts were instrumented for measurement of atrial rate and atrioventricular (av) nodal conduction time. differences in metabolism of adenosine were determined in the absence and presence of dipyridamole (nucleoside uptake blocker) and erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (ehna, adenosine deaminase inhibitor). dipyridamole plus ehna decreased adenosine's ec50 for the negative dromotropic effect by 14-fold in guinea pig heart and 1.6-fold in rat heart. this is consistent with the greater number of [3h]nitrobenzylthioinosine binding sites measured in membranes from guinea pig (1,231 +/- 68 fmol/mg protein) compared with rat (302 +/- 31 fmol/mg protein) and rabbit (260 +/- 28 fmol/mg protein) atria. the potency of adenosine to slow atrial rate and prolong av nodal conduction time was greater in guinea pig than in rat or rabbit hearts. this rank order of potency correlated well with the number of binding sites for the specific adenosine receptor radioligand 125i-aminobenzyladenosine in guinea pig (102 +/- 13 fmol/mg protein), rat (11 +/- 0.5 fmol/mg protein), and rabbit (8 +/- 1 fmol/mg protein) atrial membranes. hypoxia increased the rate of adenosine release by severalfold and caused slowing of heart rate and av block. in spontaneously beating hearts, the main effect of hypoxia was a slowing of ventricular rate, which in the guinea pig heart was due to av block and in the rat heart to atrial slowing. in atrial paced hearts, hypoxia caused a marked prolongation of av nodal conduction time in guinea pig (39 +/- 4 msec) and rabbit (29 +/- 5 msec) hearts, but only small effect in rat hearts (10 +/- 2 msec). the differences in response to hypoxia could be accounted for by the species-dependent differences in the 1) amount of adenosine released and metabolized, 2) sensitivity of the hearts to adenosine, and 3) dependency of av nodal conduction on atrial rate. the findings indicate that the results from physiological or pharmacological studies on adenosine in one species may not be applicable to others, and the ultimate effect of adenosine and hypoxia is to slow ventricular rate.
daytime reduction of gastro-oesophageal reflux after healing of oesophagitis and its value as an indicator of favourable response to maintenance treatment. in order to investigate the response of gastro-oesophageal reflux after medically induced healing of oesophagitis and its relation to the occurrence of relapse during prophylactic treatment, 20 patients with erosive/ulcerative oesophagitis underwent 24 hour oesophageal ph monitoring before and after healing achieved with 12 to 24 week treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg twice daily. compared with pretreatment values, after macroscopic healing, a significant reduction in daytime median percentage of reflux time (10.0 v 6.5; p less than 0.05) and median number of reflux episodes lasting more than 5 minutes (5-5 v 1.0; p less than 0.05) were observed, whereas during night time reflux frequency and severity did not change. during maintenance treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg nocte, five of the six patients, who had shown no improvement in gastro-oesophageal reflux after acute healing, relapsed. these results suggest that, in contrast with previous work, a decrease in gastro-oesophageal reflux in patients with reflux oesophagitis can be achieved after macroscopic healing, and that the occurrence of such a reduction after acute healing is predictive of a good response to longterm treatment.
revascularization of an ischemic limb by use of a muscle pedicle flap: a rabbit model. a rabbit model of hind limb ischemia was designed to demonstrate that new, hemodynamically significant arterial connections will develop between ischemic skeletal muscle and an independently perfused muscle pedicle flap. the right common iliac artery was divided in 15 rabbits. in eight rabbits a muscle flap based on the left deep inferior epigastric artery was transposed to the right thigh (flap group). in seven rabbits a sham operation was performed where the flap was sutured to the abdominal wall (sham group). after 7 days angiography demonstrated arterial connections between the flap and the native limb circulation in all of the flap group animals. the flap increased muscle perfusion in the ischemic limb (2.99 ml/100 gm muscle/minute in the flap group, vs 2.06 ml/100 gm muscle/minute in the sham group, p less than 0.005). hemodynamically significant vascular connections will develop between a well-perfused muscle flap and an ischemic limb. the augmentation in perfusion provided by these connections can be quantified.
nonfearful panic disorder in neurology patients validated by lactate challenge. objective: nonfearful panic disorder meets the dsm-iii-r criteria for panic disorder but is not associated with subjective fear and anxiety. the authors determined its prevalence in a group of neurology patients and assessed its diagnostic validity as a panic disorder subtype by evaluating the response of the patients with nonfearful panic disorder to sodium lactate and antipanic pharmacotherapy. method: the subjects were all neurology patients referred over 1 year to a university hospital's psychiatric consultation service because of negative medical workups for their symptoms (n = 48). patients who met the dsm-iii-r criteria for panic disorder but did not report subjective anxiety or fear during panic episodes were diagnosed as having nonfearful panic disorder. afterward, each of those patients received a sodium lactate infusion and, 5 hours later, a sodium chloride infusion. they were then treated with antipanic medication and followed for at least 6 months. results: of the 48 neurology patients referred for psychiatric evaluation, 11 (23%) met the criteria for panic disorder, and all 11 met the criteria for nonfearful panic disorder. all 11 responded positively to lactate but not to placebo, and they each experienced an at least 75% reduction in symptoms during the 6-month follow-up period. detailed case reports of three of these patients are presented. conclusions: these findings support the construct and predictive diagnostic validity of nonfearful panic disorder as a subtype of panic disorder and suggest that a lack of attention to this group leads to both the underestimation of the prevalence of panic disorder and to the withholding of potentially successful treatments for this group.
effects of site-directed mutagenesis at residues cysteine-31 and cysteine-184 on lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activity. native lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (lcat; phosphatidylcholine-sterol acyltransferase; phosphatidylcholine:sterol o-acyltransferase, ec 2.3.1.43) protein, and lcat in which either or both of the enzyme free cysteines had been replaced with glycine residues by site-directed mutagenesis, has been expressed in cultured chinese hamster ovary cells stably transfected with the human lcat gene. the mass of lcat secreted, determined by immunoassay, did not differ in the native and mutant species. lcat specific activity was also unchanged in the mutant species. in particular, the cysteine-free double mutant, in which cys-31 and cys-184 had both been replaced, was fully active in the synthesis of cholesteryl esters. this result is not consistent with a catalytic role for lcat free cysteine residues. the classical inhibitor of lcat activity, 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (dtnb), which strongly (89%) inhibited the native enzyme, had partial (45%) inhibitory activity with mutant enzyme species containing a single -sh residue, while the double mutant was not significantly inhibited by dtnb. these data are interpreted to suggest that cys-31 and cys-184 are vicinal both to each other and to the "interfacial binding site" at residues 177-182, and that dtnb exerts its effect by steric inhibition.
a novel mechanical cardiac assist device for reversing left ventricular failure. diastolic augmentation of aortic pressure is an efficacious means of improving coronary perfusion in heart failure. a novel mechanical cardiac assist device (mcad), that has advantages over a conventional intraaortic balloon pump and left ventricular assist devices, has been developed. it consists of a high efficiency rotary solenoid, coupled to a pair of actuator plates that clamp on a shunt aortic graft section, and operates in a diastolic counterpulsation mode. the system has been evaluated in six anesthetized, thoracotomized dogs with myocardial ischemia. the mcad was activated 30-40 min after coronary artery occlusion and synchronized with the r-wave. as illustrated by a representative sample of the data obtained from one of several trials, the preliminary experimental results demonstrated that the mcad worked effectively to fulfill the primary functions of a counterpulsation assist device, i.e., augmentation of coronary perfusion and reduction in the vascular impedance to ventricular ejection.
scintigraphic assessment of leukocyte infiltration in acute pancreatitis using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine as leukocyte label. the infiltration of leukocytes has been linked to the pathophysiology of complicated or severe pancreatitis. we have tested the ability of leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine (hm-pao) as label to demonstrate the localization of leukocytes in the pancreas during acute pancreatitis. twenty-eight patients with acute pancreatitis (eight with biliary, 13 with alcoholic, and seven with unknown origin) were studied with leukocyte scintigraphy using planar imaging and single photon emission computed tomography (spect). fourteen patients had a mild (group i), ii a severe (group ii), and three a lethal outcome (group iii) of pancreatitis. all patients of group iii, six of group ii, and two of group i had a positive leukocyte scan. thus, the sensitivity of leukocyte scintigraphy for the detection of a lethal course of acute pancreatitis was 100%, of a severe course 54%, and of a severe or lethal course 64%. the specificity of a negative scan for a mild pancreatitis was 86%. comparison of the results of leukocyte scintigraphy with those of contrast enhanced ct showed that six of eight patients with pancreatic necrosis in ct had a positive leukocyte scan, but only five of 20 patients without detectable pancreatic necrosis in ct. in summary, leukocyte infiltration into the pancreas during pancreatitis can be demonstrated by noninvasive leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hm-pao as label. a correlation between the severity of the disease and leukocyte infiltration exists.
clinical dysautonomia in patients with bronchial asthma. study with seven autonomic function tests. fifty asthmatic patients and 20 healthy control subjects, carefully age- and sex-matched, were subjected to seven standardized tests to evaluate their autonomic status. due care was taken to remove factors which could interfere with results. of the tests concerned with the parasympathetic system, the intravenous atropine test (p greater than 0.10) and heart rate response to standing (p greater than 0.01) which measured the basal parasympathetic tone, did not show a significant difference. tests requiring stimulation of the parasympathetic system, ie, deep breathing test (p less than 0.001), valsalva maneuver (p less than 0.001), and carotid sinus massage (p less than 0.001) showed significantly heightened response. postural fall of blood pressure (p greater than 0.10) and sustained hand grip test (p greater than 0.10), chiefly concerned with the sympathetic system, did not show a significant difference. of the 50 asthmatic patients, nine were atopic and 41 nonatopic. when the results were compared in the two groups separately, we found that there was no alteration in the measurements except the intravenous atropine test which showed heightened response with atopic subjects (p less than 0.05). these results suggest that hyperresponsiveness of the parasympathetic system is an important factor in producing bronchial spasm in asthmatic patients, and atopic and nonatopic subjects do not differ much in their autonomic status.
cardiovascular risk factor clustering and ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in angiographically documented coronary artery disease. high levels of cardiac risk factors tend to cluster together and act synergistically. to develop a suitable and practical marker for clustering, we evaluated 380 consecutive patients at the time of coronary angiography. analyses of lipid, rheologic, clinical and arteriographic profiles indicated a variety of interwoven relations. because the ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol (total/hdl cholesterol) was closely related to both the presence and extent of greater than or equal to 50% diameter reduction of greater than or equal to 1 coronary arteries, it was used to divide patients into quartiles. clustering of high- and low-level risk factors was demonstrated in the highest and lowest quartiles of total/hdl cholesterol, respectively (p less than 0.001). the highest quartile may be characterized by an only moderately elevated total cholesterol level but patients in this quartile may have a very low hdl cholesterol level, high triglycerides, a tendency toward high hemoglobin and fibrinogen levels, a history of smoking, previous myocardial infarction and multivessel disease. these results suggest that total/hdl cholesterol serves as a marker not only for obstructive coronary disease but also for a cluster of potentially modifiable risk factors.
distribution of immunoglobulins and secretory component in gastric cancer of the aged. the secretory immune system plays an important role in the local humoral immunity of the gastrointestinal tract. in order to evaluate humoral immunity in gastric cancer, distribution of immunoglobulins (ig) and secretory component was immunohistochemically studied in 74 early and 15 advanced primary gastric cancers. in non-cancerous gastric mucosa, iga and igm, and secretory component were mainly identified in the cytoplasm of the intestinal metaplasia. in early gastric cancer of well-differentiated type, the localization of iga and igm, and secretory component was similar to that of intestinal metaplasia. in advanced gastric cancer, they were faintly observed and showed low positivity. the number of ig-containing cells infiltrating cancerous stroma was enumerated. immunoglobulin a-containing cells were dominant in the stroma of early gastric cancer. on the other hand, there were few ig-containing cells in the stroma of advanced gastric cancer, and the number of iga-containing and igm-containing cells was also decreased. these results suggest that local humoral immunity is suppressed in gastric cancer, especially in advanced gastric cancer.
decalcification of a choroidal osteoma. a 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye. a choroidal osteoma was suspected, and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis. fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour, which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice. recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment. three years after the patient first presented, thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination. during the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared, leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy. total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography.
hemodynamic basis of stasis ulceration--a hypothesis. approximately 25% of patients with stasis ulceration have normal or below normal ambulatory venous pressures. a reflux index was calculated by multiplying postexercise pressures by valsalva-induced foot venous pressure elevation. in patients with stasis ulceration, reflux index was found to have an excellent negative predictive value with a clear discriminant line between normal limbs and those with ulcers. increasing incidence of stasis ulceration was demonstrated with increasing reflux index value. even when ambulatory venous pressure was within the normal range, the index was found to be abnormal in ulcerated limbs because valsalva-induced foot venous pressure was elevated in these limbs. conversely, some patients with stasis ulceration and normal valsalva foot venous pressure elevation were found to have abnormal ambulatory venous pressure values, yielding an elevated reflux index. preliminary analysis indicates that reflux index may be a better predictor of surgical outcome after valve reconstruction procedures than either ambulatory venous pressure or valsalva-induced foot venous pressure elevation. the concept of reflux index is a hypothesis that attempts to explain inconsistencies observed in implicating ambulatory venous hypertension as the sole determinant of venous reflux.
automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation without thoracotomy using an endocardial and submuscular patch system. the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator lead system is implanted by a thoracotomy procedure that may result in atelectasis, pleural effusion, cardiac tamponade and lengthy convalescence. a new defibrillator lead system that allows selection of different defibrillating current pathways is implanted without a thoracotomy. ten patients requiring a cardioverter-defibrillator for recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia (five patients) or aborted sudden cardiac death (five patients) were evaluated for implantation of this lead system. a lead configuration with a bidirectional defibrillating current pathway was implanted in nine patients. the defibrillation threshold with this lead configuration was 15 j in five patients, 20 j in three and 30 to 35 j in one patient. in the remaining patient the lead system had a 40 j defibrillation threshold and was not implanted. no perioperative complications occurred. induced ventricular fibrillation was successfully terminated at the predischarge and intermediate follow-up (8 to 12 weeks) electrophysiologic studies. during the follow-up period, there were three deaths (one sudden, two due to heart failure) and two lead system failures (oversensing with inappropriate shocks in one patient and patch lead fracture in another). implantation of the cardioverter-defibrillator lead system by a nonthoracotomy approach is feasible, has no significant perioperative complications and is well tolerated by patients. effective defibrillation was demonstrated immediately as well as at intermediate follow-up study. the occurrence of patch lead fracture and oversensing requires improvement in the present (nonthoracotomy) lead system technology.
physiologic and psychobehavioral research in oncology. a major thrust in research in psychosocial oncology is the study of the interaction of psychologic and physiologic variables. this discussion reviews the current status and future directions of such research. areas addressed include pain, nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy, sexuality, effects of cancer on psychologic and neuropsychologic function, impact of psychologic factors on cancer and its treatment, and psychoneuroimmunology. in addition, specific recommendations for strategies to facilitate research in these areas of psychosocial oncology are proposed.
syncope of unknown origin: clinical, noninvasive, and electrophysiologic determinants of arrhythmia induction and symptom recurrence during long-term follow-up. ninety-one consecutive patients with syncope of unknown origin underwent electrophysiologic studies (eps). univariate analysis identified the following variables: age, + signal-averaged ecg (saecg), left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef), history of myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, left ventricular aneurysm, and history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (smvt) on holter; multivariate analysis identified +saecg, lvef, and history of smvt as risk factors for induction of smvt at eps. all patients were followed up for 19.0 +/- 8.3 months and 17 had recurrence of syncope. patients were divided into empiric, ep-guided, and no therapy groups. the ep-guided therapy group included all patients with smvt at eps. recurrence rates among all three groups were similar. we conclude that: (1) patients who have inducible smvt at eps can be identified using certain clinical and noninvasive variables. when these patients undergo ep-guided therapy, their rate of recurrence of syncope becomes compatible with that of patients who had no arrhythmia induced at eps. (2) empiric therapy does not offer any benefit over no therapy in reducing the rate of recurrent of scope.
radiation-associated valvular disease. the prevalence of radiation-associated cardiac disease is increasing due to prolonged survival following mediastinal irradiation. side effects of radiation include pericarditis, accelerated coronary artery disease, myocardial fibrosis and valvular injury. we evaluated the cases of three young patients with evidence of significant valvular disease following mediastinal irradiation. one patient underwent the first reported successful aortic and mitral valve replacement for radiation-associated valvular disease (ravd) as well as concurrent coronary artery revascularization. a review of the literature revealed 35 reported cases of ravd, with only one successful case of valve replacement that was limited to the aortic valve. asymptomatic ravd is diagnosed 11.5 years after mediastinal irradiation compared with 16.5 years for symptomatic patients, emphasizing that long-term follow-up is important for patients receiving mediastinal irradiation. this study defines a continuum of valvular disease following radiation that begins with mild asymptomatic valvular thickening and progresses to severe valvular fibrosis with hemodynamic compromise requiring surgical intervention.
immunological differentiation between neuroborreliosis and multiple sclerosis. neuroborreliosis, a tick-borne spirochaetosis of the central nervous system, is diagnosed by the presence of intrathecally synthesized borrelia burgdorferi-specific antibodies. multiple sclerosis and neuroborreliosis can show similarities in clinical symptoms as well as lymphocytic cell reactions and oligoclonal bands in the isoelectric focusing of cerebrospinal fluid. to differentiate between multiple sclerosis and neuroborreliosis we tested intrathecally synthesized igm and virus antibodies. the igm indices were higher for most of the neuroborreliosis patients studied than for those with multiple sclerosis, and cell counts were also significantly higher in the acute stage of the disease. in 84% of multiple sclerosis patients we were able to demonstrate intrathecal antibody production against measles, rubella or mumps virus. neuroborreliosis patients had no intrathecal virus antibody synthesis. the specification of oligoclonal bands resulting from isoelectric focusing of cerebrospinal fluid with an elisa for b. burgdorferi can further substantiate the diagnosis of neuroborreliosis or help to rule it out in multiple sclerosis patients with positive borrelia-specific serology.
colonoscopy in critically ill patients. what conditions call for it? indications for colonoscopy in the intensive care unit include acute lower intestinal bleeding, sigmoid volvulus, pseudo-obstruction of the colon, and suspicion of pseudomembranous colitis. although the incidence of cardiorespiratory complications may be higher in these critically ill patients, the procedure can be done safely with proper attention to detail. because of colonic dilatation, endoscopy can often be done without bowel preparation.
evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism. recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism. experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models. we have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer. briefly, the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts (rat-1 cells) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone. fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic fisher rats. human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone (1-84), which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone. these rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week. levels increase progressively, often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection. serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl. in this study, 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection. examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption. examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts. there was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems, but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes, primarily in subepicardial region. this model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia.
hemodynamic effects of ketamine, hypoxia and hyperoxia in children with surgically treated congenital heart disease residing greater than or equal to 1,200 meters above sea level. little data are available on the hemodynamic effects of premedications and anesthetic agents on infants and children. ketamine is the most frequently used anesthetic agent for cardiac catheterization procedures in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease. previous reports both suggest and deny ketamine's pulmonary vasoreactive effects. since the advent of sophisticated noninvasive equipment, one of the few indications for cardiac catheterization is to obtain accurate pressure data. if ketamine alters pulmonary vascular resistance, it would negate the primary reason for the procedure. because the patient population studied herein resides greater than or equal to 1,200 meters above sea level, concerns about pharmacologic effects on pulmonary vascular resistance are enhanced. simultaneous pulmonary artery and aortic pressures, thermodilution cardiac outputs, and blood gases were measured in room air (16% oxygen) and with ketamine infusion in 14 patients at cardiac catheterization. reaction to hypoxia identified 3 groups: normal, intermediate and hyperresponders. the normal responders had normal resistance ratios (0.11) in room air and had little resistance ratio response to hypoxia (+0.02), hyperoxia (-0.03) or ketamine (+0.01). the intermediate responders had a slightly higher but normal resistance ratio (0.20) in room air, and a moderate reaction to hypoxia (+0.13), hyperoxia (-0.08) and ketamine (+0.11). the hyperresponders had an elevated resistance ratio (0.42) in room air and a striking reaction to hypoxia (+0.65), hyperoxia (-0.17) and ketamine (+0.49). hypoxia and ketamine have a greater effect on resistance ratio than hypoxia alone in patients with reactive pulmonary vascular beds. ketamine should not be used in children undergoing procedures to establish operability based on pulmonary vascular resistance or pulmonary vascular reactivity.
liver fatty acid-binding protein: a marker for studying cellular differentiation in gut epithelial neoplasms. human liver fatty acid binding protein is a 127 residue cytoplasmic protein synthesized in liver and in the intestinal epithelium. previous studies of normal and transgenic mice indicated that the liver fatty acid-binding protein gene is a sensitive marker of enterocytic differentiation. this study shows the use of immunohistochemical methods to examine liver fatty acid-binding protein gene expression in normal human colonic epithelium, colonic villoglandular adenomas, nonmucinous and mucinous adenocarcinomas, and several types of noncolonic epithelial neoplasms. cells containing liver fatty acid-binding protein were found in normal colonic epithelium, in two thirds of colorectal villoglandular adenomas and nonmucinous adenocarcinomas, and in one third of mucinous adenocarcinomas but not in noncolonic, nonhepatic carcinomas. all liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive colonic adenomas and adenocarcinomas contained patches of immunoreactive cells distributed among histologically identical patches of cells without liver fatty acid-binding protein immunoreactivity. this "mosaicism" was also found in metastases from liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive colonic adenocarcinomas. immunostaining of these liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive tissues for carcinoembryonic antigen did not show a mosaic cellular pattern in its expression. these data suggest that within a given neoplasm, differences exist in the differentiation programs of monoclonally-derived, malignant colonic epithelial cells and that liver fatty acid-binding protein is a useful marker for operationally defining these subpopulations. liver fatty acid-binding protein is also a potentially useful diagnostic marker for colorectal and hepatic carcinomas.
post-transplant hypertension. post-transplant hypertension remains an important risk factor for cardiovascular mortality and graft function. there are multiple mechanisms responsible for post-transplant hypertension. the details of these mechanisms are poorly understood. steroids, acute and chronic rejection, recurrent renal disease, native kidney disease, and renal artery stenosis have all been implicated in causing post-transplant hypertension. with the addition of cyclosporine, a known hypertensive agent, to the immunosuppressive armamentarium, the evaluation of post-transplantation hypertension has become difficult. presently, medical therapy is initially directed toward the complications of cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. empirically, converting enzyme inhibitors are added to the antihypertensive regimen. further management is aimed at identification of specific causes of post-transplant hypertension. unfortunately, because of the multifactorial etiology of post-transplant hypertension and a lack of detailed information about the mechanisms, medical and surgical therapy are often unrewarding. further study is needed to clarify the mechanisms involved in post-transplant hypertension, and thus direct therapy.
oral diseases in older adults [clinical conference] in the case presented, a 65-year-old man with multiple dental, medical, and social problems benefited from interdisciplinary assessment and treatment. despite his poor oral-health status and oral-health behaviors upon admission, patient education and dental therapy resulted in improved daily oral hygiene, elimination of oral diseases, and improved oral function. the overall quality of life of any individual, particularly an older one, can be enhanced through oral-disease prevention, health promotion, and, when indicated, dental therapy. this patient was treated in a hospital environment with a well-established team approach to geriatric care. however, regardless of the care setting, the physician can play a key role in improving the oral health status and quality of life of older adults by including an oral screening examination as part of the periodic comprehensive geriatric assessment, recognizing oral pathology, requesting dental consultations and encouraging appropriate dental service utilization.
traumatic rupture of aorta. diagnosis by doppler echocardiography. traumatic rupture of aorta is a serious complication in accidents, mainly road accidents, with a high mortality unless an immediate diagnosis and surgical correction is made. a case of traumatic rupture of the aorta shown in the acute phase by doppler-echocardiography is reported. this technique can be of great value in the study of patients with thoracic trauma who do not show clear signs of aortic rupture which require urgent aortography.
reciprocal inhibition between forearm muscles in spastic hemiplegia. we studied reciprocal inhibition of h-reflexes in the forearm flexor and extensor muscles in 14 patients with spastic hemiplegia secondary to a focal cerebral lesion and 14 normal volunteers. in the spastic limb, the hmax/mmax ratio was increased in both flexor and particularly extensor wrist muscles. the 3 normal inhibitory phases of reciprocal inhibition between extensor and flexor forearm muscles were markedly reduced on the spastic side of patients. the early disynaptic phase showed the greatest alteration. reduced or absent inhibition between forearm muscles associated with increased spinal motoneuron excitability may be typical to spastic hemiplegia.
nonhomologous chromatid exchange in hereditary and sporadic renal cell carcinomas. for the development of renal cell carcinomas, it has been suggested that a germ-line or somatic mutation occurs on one of the homologous chromosomes 3p, and subsequently the other 3p segment is lost. we have examined the karyotype and/or the allelic combination on chromosomes 3 and 5 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis in normal kidney and tumor samples from 28 renal cell carcinomas that developed in two patients with von hippel-lindau disease; we then compared the results to those of sporadic tumors. an unbalanced translocation between chromosome 3p and 5q or other chromosomes was found to be the most common aberration. we developed a model of nonhomologous chromatid exchange involving breakpoint clusters at chromosomes 3p13, 3p11.2, 5q22, and 8q11.2. subsequent chromatid segregation may result in net loss of the 3p segment either (i) in one step or (ii) after a nondisjunctional loss of the derivative chromosome carrying the 3p segment. this general mechanism could also be implicated to explain genetic changes occurring in other types of solid tumors.
spontaneous pneumoperitoneum. a surgical dilemma. pneumoperitoneum is usually the result of hollow viscus perforation with associated peritonitis. nonsurgical spontaneous pneumoperitoneum incidental to intrathoracic, intra-abdominal, gynecologic, iatrogenic, and other miscellaneous causes not associated with perforated viscus have been documented in the literature. seven cases of spontaneous pneumoperitoneum admitted over 3-year period to grady memorial hospital, atlanta, georgia are reported. six patients with pneumoperitoneum underwent exploratory laparotomy when clinical examination suggested an acute abdomen; no intra-abdominal pathology was documented in any of these patients. a seventh patient, on ventilatory support, was managed conservatively after performing a diagnostic peritoneal lavage that was negative. there were no cases of radiographically misdiagnosed pneumoperitoneum. pneumoperitoneum, preceded by a reasonable incidental cause in a patient with a adequate abdominal examination, may warrant continued observation thus avoiding an unnecessary laparotomy.
nisoldipine--effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and catecholamines. studies in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. we have studied the effects of nisoldipine, a new calcium channel antagonist, on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and on plasma catecholamines in 10 healthy volunteers and in 29 patients with primary essential hypertension. of these 29 patients, thirteen had normal renin hypertension (nrh), and sixteen had low renin hypertension (lrh). eight healthy volunteers received placebo. short-term (24 h) effects were measured in all subjects and long-term (up to 6 months) effects of 10-40 mg nisoldipine daily were monitored in the 29 hypertensive patients. plasma renin activity (pra) increased slightly, although this rise was not statistically significant, 1 h after the first dose of nisoldipine in both normotensive subjects and hypertensive patients. after 2 h pra had returned to the pre-treatment level. no change in pra was observed after administration of placebo. plasma angiotensin ii (aii) levels showed considerable variation after nisoldipine administration. plasma aldosterone levels decreased despite the increase in pra and aii concentrations. however, no concomitant reduction in urinary aldosterone excretion was observed. plasma noradrenaline levels increased slightly 2-4 h after administration of nisoldipine, and decreased again thereafter, but no changes in plasma adrenaline levels were seen. nisoldipine had no long-term effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system or on serum catecholamine levels.
increased sympathetic outflow in cirrhosis and ascites: direct evidence from intraneural recordings. objective: to determine if central sympathetic outflow is increased in patients with cirrhosis and ascites. patients: eleven patients with cirrhosis and ascites, 8 patients with cirrhosis but without ascites, and 7 age-matched and 8 young healthy volunteers. methods: with subjects supine, direct microneurographic recordings of efferent post-ganglionic muscle sympathetic nerve activity were obtained from the peroneal nerve, and sympathetic burst frequency was compared with subjects' blood pressure, heart rate, sodium excretion, catecholamines, and plasma renin activity. all patients with cirrhosis were studied at least 5 days after withdrawal from all medications and after 7 days of a 20 mmol/d sodium, 1-l fluid-restricted diet. age-matched volunteers were studied after 7 days of 20 mmol/d sodium intake and young healthy volunteers after 7 days of 150 mmol/d sodium intake. results: sympathetic nerve activity in ascitic patients (65 +/- 15 bursts/min; mean +/- sd) was markedly increased, whether compared with patients with cirrhosis but without ascites (34 +/- 16 bursts/min; p less than 0.001), age-matched healthy volunteers on similar sodium intake (27 +/- 22 bursts/min; p less than 0.001), or young healthy subjects (21 +/- 10 bursts/min; p less than 0.001). the frequency of muscle sympathetic nerve discharge was directly related to plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations, plasma renin activity, and heart rate, all of which were increased in those patients with cirrhosis and ascites, and inversely related to 24-hour urinary sodium excretion, the fractional excretion of sodium, and subjects' pulse pressures. sympathetic nerve activity fell from 78 to 6 bursts/min in one patient after liver transplantation. conclusions: this study provides the first direct evidence that elevated plasma norepinephrine concentrations in patients with cirrhosis and ascites are due to increased central sympathetic outflow. sympathetic nerve activity is not increased in patients with cirrhosis but without ascites. because there were direct positive correlations of sympathetic nerve activity with plasma norepinephrine concentrations, plasma epinephrine concentrations, plasma renin activity, and heart rate, the increase in central sympathetic outflow in patients with cirrhosis and ascites appears generalized and not restricted to muscle nerves. the anti-natriuretic effects of parallel increases in renal and muscle sympathetic nerve activity could account for the inverse correlation between muscle sympathetic nerve activity and sodium excretion.
remodeling of the rat right and left ventricles in experimental hypertension. pathological left ventricular hypertrophy in renovascular hypertension is associated with the accumulation of fibrillar collagen within the extracellular space and around intramyocardial coronary arteries. even though the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril was previously found to attenuate this interstitial and perivascular fibrosis, the relative importance of arterial and ventricular systolic pressures versus circulating angiotensin ii (aii) and aldosterone (al) in promoting hypertrophy and collagen accumulation in renovascular hypertension is uncertain. by drawing on the in-parallel arrangement of the right and left ventricles, with respect to their coronary circulation, and the in-series mechanical alignment of the ventricles, with a pressure-overloaded left and a normotensive right ventricle, this study sought to address this uncertainty. three models of experimental hypertension, each having a different circulating aii and al profile, were examined and compared with their controls: renovascular hypertension, where both aii and al are increased; infrarenal aorta banding, where aii and al are normal; and a chronic infusion of al, where aii is suppressed or normal and al is increased. in renovascular hypertension, as well as with al, we found a significant rise in the interstitial collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area of the pressure-overloaded, hypertrophied left ventricle as well as the normotensive, nonhypertrophied right ventricle. this remodeling was not seen in either ventricle with infrarenal aorta banding despite comparable systemic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. thus, in experimental arterial hypertension in the rat, myocyte and nonmyocyte compartments of the myocardium are under separate controls: myocyte hypertrophy is most closely related to ventricular loading while circulating aii and al, acting alone or in concert with other humoral factors, regulate the accumulation of collagen within the right and left ventricles.
prognostic significance of multimodality evoked response testing in high-risk newborns. exposure to hypoxic-ischemic events in fetal or neonatal life may lead to permanent brain damage and subsequent neurodevelopmental deficits. clinical and diagnostic tools have been somewhat helpful in identifying an at-risk group, particularly those patients sustaining significant neurologic sequelae. in this prospective study, the prognostic significance of multimodality evoked responses in high-risk newborns was examined. a group of 44 high-risk newborns, as well as 14 healthy newborns, were tested during the newborn period with auditory brainstem responses and somatosensory evoked responses; these tests were repeated at 2 and 6 months corrected age. a neonatal neurologic examination, the einstein neonatal neurobehavioral assessment scale, was also conducted. at 1 year corrected age, both groups were assessed in a blind fashion by a pediatric neurologist and a psychologist to determine neurodevelopmental outcome. results indicated that somatosensory evoked response abnormalities in particular predict an abnormal neurologic status at 1 year of age. abnormalities that persisted or worsened correlated with severe neurologic impairment, whereas an abnormal somatosensory evoked response that improved or normalized in infancy was associated with mild to moderate neurologic sequelae. increased brainstem conduction in the auditory brainstem responses was also associated with neurologic sequelae. normal findings from auditory brainstem responses and somatosensory evoked responses predicted normal developmental scores in all areas, as well as a normal neurologic outcome at 1 year with negative predictive powers ranging from 85-100%. evoked response testing appears to be an important adjunct to the neurologic investigation of high-risk newborns.
introduction: nutritional aspects of palm oil. the production, composition, and food uses of palm oil are outlined in this introduction to a detailed appraisal of the nutritional and health implications of the use of palm oil in the food supply. the putative role of dietary fats and oils in general, and of palm oil in particular, in the etiology of coronary heart disease and cancer is critically assessed. it is concluded that the evidence available is difficult to interpret unambiguously. some evidence to suggest that the minor components of palm oil might have useful biological effects is also discussed.
squamous cell carcinoma-antigen for detection of squamous cell and mucoepidermoid carcinoma after primary treatment: a preliminary report. this study evaluated the efficacy of using the periodic measurement of the serum level of squamous cell carcinoma antigen (scc-antigen) for determining the local recurrence and/or metastasis of squamous cell and mucoepidermoid carcinomas after primary treatment. it was found that at the time of clinical recognition of recurrence, the scc-antigen level was normal, but metastasis to regional lymph nodes or to remote organs generally was accompanied by an increase of scc-antigen. changes in the scc-antigen level with mucoepidermoid carcinoma seemed to be less sensitive than with squamous cell carcinoma.
a controlled trial of community based coronary rehabilitation. two hundred patients who had suffered an acute myocardial infarction 4-6 weeks before entered a randomised controlled trial of exercise treatment at a community sports centre supervised by a general practitioner. eighty one per cent of the treatment group continued to exercise until they returned to work and 73% completed three months' exercise. there were no serious complications of the exercise course. the prevalence of angina pectoris fell by 10% in the treatment group but rose by 60% in the control group. the perceived energy level rose by significantly more in the treatment group than in the controls. the rise in predicted maximum oxygen uptake was significantly greater in the treatment group than in the control group as was the reduction in the double product (a reflection of myocardial workload) at peak exercise. coronary rehabilitation in the community can be both safe and effective.
hyperhomocysteinemia: an independent risk factor for vascular disease. background. hyperhomocysteinemia arising from impaired methionine metabolism, probably usually due to a deficiency of cystathionine beta-synthase, is associated with premature cerebral, peripheral, and possibly coronary vascular disease. both the strength of this association and its independence of other risk factors for cardiovascular disease are uncertain. we studied the extent to which the association could be explained by heterozygous cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency. methods. we first established a diagnostic criterion for hyperhomocysteinemia by comparing peak serum levels of homocysteine after a standard methionine-loading test in 25 obligate heterozygotes with respect to cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (whose children were known to be homozygous for homocystinuria due to this enzyme defect) with the levels in 27 unrelated age- and sex-matched normal subjects. a level of 24.0 mumol per liter or more was 92 percent sensitive and 100 percent specific in distinguishing the two groups. the peak serum homocysteine levels in these normal subjects were then compared with those in 123 patients whose vascular disease had been diagnosed before they were 55 years of age. results. hyperhomocysteinemia was detected in 16 of 38 patients with cerebrovascular disease (42 percent), 7 of 25 with peripheral vascular disease (28 percent), and 18 of 60 with coronary vascular disease (30 percent), but in none of the 27 normal subjects. after adjustment for the effects of conventional risk factors, the lower 95 percent confidence limit for the odds ratio for vascular disease among the patients with hyperhomocysteinemia, as compared with the normal subjects, was 3.2. the geometric-mean peak serum homocysteine level was 1.33 times higher in the patients with vascular disease than in the normal subjects (p = 0.002). the presence of cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency was confirmed in 18 of 23 patients with vascular disease who had hyperhomocysteinemia. conclusions. hyperhomocysteinemia is an independent risk factor for vascular disease, including coronary disease, and in most instances is probably due to cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency.
polyarteritis nodosa presenting as a biliary stricture. polyarteritis nodosa, a disease of the media of small and medium-sized arteries, has protean manifestations and many presenting signs and symptoms. gastrointestinal involvement is common but involvement of the biliary tree is rare. we report a unique case of polyarteritis presenting as a biliary stricture.
the use of molteno implant and anterior chamber tube shunt to encircling band for the treatment of glaucoma in keratoplasty patients. this retrospective study reviews the results of 35 keratoplasty patients with complex corneal and glaucoma disease, who received molteno-type (n = 25) or anterior chamber tube shunt to encircling band (actseb)-type (n = 10) implant for the treatment of difficult glaucomas. the implant was placed before the keratoplasty in 14 eyes, during the keratoplasty procedure in 6 eyes, and subsequent to the corneal surgery in 15 eyes. mean follow-up for the keratoplasty was 25.46 months (range, 6-58 months) and 24.74 months (range, 7-42 months) for the seton procedure. graft rejection occurred in 12 (34%) of 35 eyes and was progressive in 9 eyes. nonimmunologic failure was seen in 9 (26%) of 35 eyes. grafts were repeated in ten eyes with eight of these (80%) remaining clear at a mean of 14.4 months. considering the results of the repeat grafts, 25 (71%) of 35 eyes achieved clear transplants. overall, 46% of patients had final visual acuities of 20/100 or better and 69% had final visual acuities of 20/400 or better. the mean preoperative intraocular pressure (iop) of 34.54 mmhg (range, 14-68 mmhg; standard deviation [sd], 11.51) was lowered to a mean of 14.65 mmhg (range, 6-30 mmhg; sd, 4.49). in the final analysis, 30 (86%) of 35 eyes were judged successful from a glaucoma standpoint. we conclude that the molteno- and actseb-type implants are viable treatment alternatives in this difficult glaucoma group.
pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis. an independent risk factor for mortality. nosocomial pneumonia (np) is associated with a significant mortality, 66% in a previous retrospective study of np complicating intra-abdominal sepsis (ias). we prospectively compared the outcome of np complicating ias with that of recurrent ias (r-ias) in the absence of np. data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with ias; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis (44% mortality). one hundred seventy-one patients with no np and no r-ias (group 1) had a hospital mortality of 20% (34 patients); 36 without np in whom r-ias developed (group 2) had a 17% mortality (six patients); and 47 with np but no r-ias (group 3) had a 53% mortality (25 patients). finally, 12 patients who had both np and r-ias suffered a 75% mortality (nine patients). we examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality: apache (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) ii score (at initial presentation with ias), the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis, steroid requirement, generalized peritonitis vs abscess, and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment. using mortality as the dependent variable, group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable, and the risk factors as confounders, logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders. we conclude that np complicating ias is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with r-ias. these data challenge the notion that death in ias is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection.
scleroderma and l-tryptophan: a possible explanation of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. scleroderma developed in six women who were taking l-tryptophan. fasciitis and morphea were most common, but one patient had pleural effusion, hypertension, and signs of cardiac and kidney failure. in five patients the biopsy findings were characteristic of scleroderma; the sixth patient had crohn's disease and developed fasciitis; her biopsy specimen showed inflammatory arteritis. all patients' conditions improved after cessation of their l-tryptophan intake, initiation of corticosteroid therapy, or both. these findings confirm previous data that show altered tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in some patients with scleroderma and fasciitis, particularly with tryptophan loading.
recanalization of chronic total coronary arterial occlusions by percutaneous excimer-laser and laser-assisted angioplasty. a low primary success and high restenosis rate after recanalization of chronic total occlusions by conventional coronary angioplasty have encouraged the application of new interventional techniques like excimer-laser angioplasty. in 39 patients with a coronary occlusion for 1 to 12 months, recanalization was attempted by laser angioplasty through a multifiber-catheter coupled to a pulsed xecl excimer laser. after successful passage of the occlusion by a standard guidewire in 27 patients (69%), the laser catheter was advanced over the central guidewire and crossed the occlusion in 25 patients (64%). in 2 patients with unsuccessful passage of the laser catheter, the subsequent attempt with a low profile balloon catheter also failed. in 19 of the 25 patients with successful laser recanalization, the residual stenosis exceeded 50% and was therefore followed by additional balloon angioplasty. the average residual stenosis after laser was 61 +/- 17% of the vessel diameter, and after balloon angioplasty 28 +/- 9% (n = 19), whereas after laser angioplasty alone it was 38 +/- 5% (n = 6). no complications associated with the laser application were observed. angiographic control after 24 hours showed a reocclusion of 2 (8%) recanalized vessels. in this pilot study, laser angioplasty proved to be a safe and feasible method for the treatment of chronic total coronary occlusions. because it was necessary to guide the catheter by a central wire, the primary success was limited by a successful passage of the wire of the occlusion. the rate of stand-alone laser angioplasty has to be increased by future improvements of the technique to enable a comparative evaluation of this method with conventional angioplasty.
sphincter of oddi manometry: decreased risk of clinical pancreatitis with use of a modified aspirating catheter. this study was undertaken to determine whether routine use of a modified triple-lumen five french sphincter of oddi manometry catheter would reduce the frequency and severity of post-manometry pancreatitis and pancreatic enzyme elevation. seventy-six patients were alternately assigned to undergo sphincter of oddi manometry (som) with a standard perfusion (infused group) catheter or the newly developed aspiration (aspirated group) catheter. after som, there were significantly more patients in the infused group with both amylase and lipase values elevated at least two times the upper limits of normal at 2 (p less than 0.001), 6 (p = 0.01), and 18 hours (p = 0.03) after the procedure. as compared with the standard perfusion system, the aspiration catheter was associated with a decreased frequency of clinical pancreatitis (23.5% vs. 3%, p = 0.01) reduced hospital stay (5 +/- 1.83 days, mean +/- se, versus 1 day; p = 0.03) and milder pancreatitis. the aspiration manometry catheter should be considered for standard use for som, particularly if the pancreatic duct sphincter is being evaluated.
trial of brief intermittent neuroleptic prophylaxis for selected schizophrenic outpatients: clinical and social outcome at two years. objective--to evaluate a novel approach to the prophylaxis of schizophrenic relapse characterised by administration of brief courses of neuroleptic for the earliest non-psychotic signs of relapse (prodromal symptoms). design--two year follow up of subjects randomised, double blind, to receive either active (control group) or placebo (intermittent group) depot neuroleptic medication. both groups received brief courses of oral neuroleptic when prodromal symptoms or relapse occurred. setting--psychiatric outpatient department, charing cross hospital, london. subjects--54 stable patients in remission who met the american psychiatric association's dsm-iii criteria for schizophrenia on the basis of case notes. main outcome measures--survival without relapse, survival without hospitalisation, point prevalence of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia, structured assessment of social functioning (social adjustment scale ii), and frequency of prodromal symptoms. results--of 19 relapses recorded over two years, 10 (53%) were preceded by non-psychotic prodromal signs. survival rates for both relapse and hospitalisation were worse with intermittent treatment than continuous treatment over the two year follow up: 92% of controls and only 54% of patients given intermittent treatment survived the two year period without hospitalisation. prolonged or frequent relapses as well as episodes of prodromal symptoms were more frequent with intermittent treatment. lower scores for extrapyramidal side effects were recorded in the intermittent treatment group, but periodic assessments of social functioning failed to show any social advantages from this. conclusion--the findings are at variance with a previous report of one year follow up in this cohort and attest to the superiority of continuous depot neuroleptic prophylaxis in preventing both psychotic and neurotic or dysphoric morbidity in schizophrenia.
epidemiologic and immunogenetic aspects of polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis in northern italy. we studied the epidemiology of giant cell arteritis (gca) and polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) in a mediterranean population. ninety-nine patients with pmr and/or gca were identified over a 9-year period (1980-1988) in reggio emilia, italy. the average annual incidence of pmr and gca was 12.7/100,000 and 6.9/100,000, respectively, in a population aged 50 years or older. frequencies of hla antigens were determined in 49 patients with pmr and/or gca who were followed by staff at our rheumatology unit during the 1980-1988 period. when compared with hla findings in 242 healthy controls, dr4 was not found to be significantly associated with pmr (24% in pmr patients versus 14% in controls). patients with gca also showed an increased frequency of dr4 compared with controls (36% versus 14%), but this difference was also not statistically significant. the immunogenetic features of pmr and gca and the relationship between the immunogenetic and epidemiologic patterns in different populations are discussed.
hypertrophy, fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction in early canine experimental hypertension. to examine the relations among hypertrophy, fibrosis and diastolic performance in early experimental hypertension, 18 control dogs and 12 dogs with experimental left ventricular hypertrophy were studied. diastolic function was impaired in dogs with left ventricular hypertrophy, with decreased doppler early to atrial inflow velocity ratio (e/a) (1.35 versus 1.72), increased atrial filling fraction (35% versus 29%), decreased sonomicrometric peak rates of wall thinning (-2.01 versus -3.37 liters/s) and filling (4.33 versus 6.64 liters/s) and prolonged time constant of isovolumetric relaxation (tau; 34.3 versus 28.1 ms). neither chamber stiffness (k; p = aekv) nor passive elastic stiffness (e; e = k sigma, where sigma = stress) was increased. at postmortem examination, the hypertensive left ventricle weighed significantly more than normal (116 versus 80 g; p less than 0.01) and had greater muscle fiber diameter at endocardial and epicardial sampling sites in the apical free wall, basal free wall and septum (mean diameter 50 +/- 8 microns in hypertensive dogs, 37 +/- 8 microns in normal dogs; p less than 0.01). in contrast, neither percent fibrosis (1.2 +/- 0.8 versus 0.9 +/- 0.6 in normal dogs) nor fibrotic volume (1.21 +/- 0.63 versus 0.72 +/- 0.42%/g in normal dogs) was significantly increased. peak volumetric filling rate was inversely related to fiber diameter (r = -0.74, p less than 0.001), although no variable of left ventricular function was significantly related to percent or volume fibrosis (all r less than 0.60, all p greater than 0.05). thus, diastolic dysfunction may exist in the setting of hypertrophy without significant fibrosis. increased myocyte size was associated with early diastolic filling abnormalities characteristic of the hypertensive left ventricle. fibrosis appears to be a less important determinant of diastolic performance.
candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic c5 quadriplegia: diagnosis and management. we present the first reported case of candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient. in addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics, the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient's susceptibility to fungal disease. a 50-year-old patient with c5 motor functional quadriplegia developed candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation. the patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization. he continued to have a hectic fever curve, leukocytosis with increased band forms, lethargy, and progressive uremia during rehabilitation. successful investigation of the patient's condition included assessment of serologic tests for candida precipitin antigen; multiple blood and urine cultures; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever; abdominal computerized tomogram, which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins; and a retrograde pyelogram, which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects. cystoscopically placed ureteral stents, which relieved the genitourinary obstruction, drained gross pus from which candida albicans was cultured; the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed clinical improvement. pathogenesis, presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of candida pyelonephritis are reviewed.
incisional parapubic hernias. a parapubic hernia, distinct from other lower abdominal wall hernias, is identified as a particular type of incisional hernia. this hernia results from the disruption of the musculotendinous elements of the abdominal wall as they insert into the pubis. this disruption is brought about by either the destruction of these musculotendinous tissues at their lower end or the resection of portions of the pubic bone as is sometimes done in suprapubic radical prostatectomies for easier access to the prostate. seven cases have been identified and reported. men and women were seen to make up a clinical picture that is suggestive of the diagnosis, namely, multiple previous operations through the lower abdominal wall, procedures of a gynecologic or urologic nature, a herniation that mimics an incisional or inguinal hernia, and a defect that cannot possibly be corrected without the use of a prosthesis. when the diagnosis is accurately established, the polypropylene mesh is inserted in the preperitoneal space and anchored laterally to the ligaments of cooper and in between to the arcuate pubic ligament and the periosteum of the posterior aspect of the pubis. excellent results have been obtained, and the success must be ascribed to the recognition of the parapubic hernia as a distinct entity.
inhibition of norepinephrine release from vascular adrenergic neurons by oral administration of beta-blocker in doca-salt hypertension. the ability of a beta-blocker to inhibit vascular sympathetic nerve activity associated with hypertension was studied in doca-salt hypertension in rats. a seven week treatment of doca and salt resulted in a significant increase in the systolic blood pressure of the uninephrectomized rats. the administration of propranolol (40 mg/l and 80 mg/l in drinking water) had little effect on the development of hypertension. after a three week administration of propranolol, perfused mesenteric vasculatures were prepared in vitro, and endogenous norepinephrine release as well as vascular responsiveness were examined. endogenous norepinephrine and pressor responses during periarterial nerve stimulation were greater in the untreated doca-salt hypertensive rats than in the normotensive rats. in the doca-salt hypertensive rats treated with propranolol, the stimulation-evoked norepinephrine release and pressor responses were significantly attenuated, at both doses, compared with the untreated doca-salt hypertensive rats. these results demonstrate that propranolol inhibited the vascular sympathetic nerve activity in doca-salt hypertensive rats. this occurrence suggests a possible role of presynaptic beta-adrenoceptors in the regulation of sympathetic tone in doca-salt hypertension.
deceptive bizarre stromal cells in polyps and ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract. the clinical and pathologic features of 33 pseudomalignant lesions of the gastrointestinal tract with bizarre stromal cells are reported. deceptive histologic changes were identified in ulcers of seven patients and in inflammatory polyps of 26. a misdiagnosis of malignant neoplasm was made in six of the 33 patients (three polyps and three ulcers). a history of gastrointestinal bleeding and/or inflammatory bowel disease was common. the bizarre stromal cells were usually distributed beneath the ulcerated mucosa or within granulation tissue. they stained strongly for vimentin in 20 of 23 cases. some of the bizarre cells also stained for muscle specific actin (seven of 23 cases). the cells appear to be reactive fibroblasts or myofibroblasts. follow-up information obtained on 24 of the 33 patients (including four of the six cases initially diagnosed as malignant) revealed 22 patients to be alive without evidence of a malignant neoplasm (average follow-up, 13 months). two patients died of other causes. correct recognition of these bizarre stromal cells in gastrointestinal ulcers and inflammatory polyps will prevent a potentially serious diagnostic pitfall.
increasing the yield of ventricular tachycardia induction: a prospective, randomized comparative study of the standard ventricular stimulation protocol to a short-to-long protocol and a new two-site protocol. programmed ventricular stimulation with a standard protocol that used up to three extrastimuli was compared prospectively with a short-to-long protocol and a two-site protocol in 77 consecutive patients undergoing electrophysiologic study in an attempt to increase the yield of ventricular tachycardia (vt) induction. the short-to-long protocol uses a train of eight stimuli at a short cycle length and up to two extrastimuli. the two-site protocol is similar to the standard protocol but delivers the last extrastimulus via a second spatially separated right ventricular catheter. patients were divided into two groups based on indications for study: group 1 included 45 patients with syncope, nonsustained vt, or both, and group 2 included 32 patients with a history of sustained vt, sudden cardiac death, or both. the yield of vt induction with the short-to-long protocol was less than that with the standard protocol. in none of the patients in group 1 in whom the standard protocol results were negative did the short-to-long protocol produce sustained vt. only two patients, both in group 2, had sustained arrhythmias induced by the short-to-long protocol when the standard protocol results were negative: one had sustained vt induced and one with long qt syndrome had ventricular fibrillation (vf) induced with the short-to-long protocol. however, the short-to-long protocol failed to induce sustained vt in seven patients in whom the standard protocol produced sustained vt. all seven of these patients required three extrastimuli with the standard protocol for induction of vt.
systolic hypertension in the elderly: reasons not to treat. isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. accurate measurement of blood pressure in older patients is difficult. therapy can be associated with various complications, and the special problems of the elderly, such as orthostatic hypotension and hyperkalemia, should be carefully considered. drugs should be used in low doses and changes in dosage should be made infrequently. patients should be monitored frequently for untoward effects of therapy. the benefits of blood pressure reduction and the optimal degree of blood pressure reduction remain unknown.
motor unit discharge characteristics and short term synchrony in paraplegic humans. frequency of firing and regularity of discharge of human motor units, and short term synchrony between pairs of motor units, have been assessed in extensor digitorum communis (edc) and tibialis anterior (ta) muscles in control subjects and in clinically complete paraplegic subjects. the discharge pattern of ta motor units in paraplegia ranged from extremely regular to very irregular for different motor units whereas in the control population, and in edc of both groups, there was a narrow, but intermediate, range of regularity. there was little difference in the incidence and degree of short term synchrony (sts) in edc between paraplegic and normal subjects. in contrast, virtually no sts of motor units was observed in the ta muscles of the paraplegic group whereas control subjects exhibited approximately the same amount of sts in their ta and edc muscles. it is concluded that the extra burden placed on arm muscles in paraplegia does not change the amount of synchronisation between motor units. furthermore, section of the spinal cord does not increase sts as predicted from lesions of the reticulospinal tract in cats. this may reflect the coincidental removal of supraspinal synchronising inputs of motoneurons or the reorganisation of synaptic inputs in chronic paraplegia.
vigabatrin: rational treatment for chronic epilepsy. vigabatrin is a selective, irreversible suicide inhibitor of gaba transaminase and thus increases brain and csf gaba. in 33 adult patients with long standing refractory epilepsy on treatment with one or two standard anti-convulsant drugs, the addition of vigabatrin up to 3g daily for eight weeks was associated with a 48.2% reduction in seizure frequency. twenty patients who had exhibited a 50% or more reduction in frequency of one or more seizure types entered an eight week double-blind placebo controlled phase. patients on vigabatrin maintained a 54.7% reduction of seizure frequency, whereas those on placebo showed an 18.6% increase in seizure frequency, a highly significant difference between the two groups. in the open phase, seven patients were withdrawn due to unacceptable and reversible adverse events. the commonest side effects were drowsiness, depression and mood instability, and headaches. vigabatrin is a potentially valuable new treatment for chronic epilepsy, especially partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation.
clinical and doppler echocardiographic evaluation of bioprosthetic valve failure after 10 years. four hundred thirteen consecutive patients underwent valve replacement with a bioprosthesis between 1976 and 1982. aortic valve replacement was performed in 240 patients, mitral valve replacement in 132 patients, and multiple valve replacement in 41. the carpentier-edwards porcine (n = 336), angell-shiley porcine (n = 23), hancock porcine (n = 11), and the ionescu-shiley pericardial valves (n = 43) were inserted. follow-up between 5 and 12 years postoperatively was 98% complete. freedom from structural valve deterioration was 72 +/- 7%, 59 +/- 9%, and 59 +/- 9%, respectively, after aortic, mitral, and double valve replacement. the risk of structural valve deterioration and reoperation for valve-related complications was significantly increased with the ionescu-shiley pericardial prosthesis. the risk for reoperation was inversely related to patient age. postoperative doppler echocardiographic studies in 87% of available patients revealed a subgroup of asymptomatic patients with evidence of structural valve deterioration. these patients (n = 61) had significantly reduced prosthetic valve areas (aortic less than 1 cm2, mitral less than 1.7 cm2), elevated resting transvalvular gradients (aortic greater than 40 mm hg), or moderate-to-severe regurgitation. in summary, postoperative doppler echocardiographic examination identified asymptomatic patients with structural valve dysfunction. these patients must be followed up carefully to determine the optimal timing of reoperation.
incidence of myocarditis. a 10-year autopsy study from malmo, sweden. although myocarditis has been known for almost two centuries, data in regard to its incidence have varied widely. autopsy studies have reported an incidence of 3.5% to as high as 10%. the main reason for such diversity of data appears to be the lack of unanimity as to what constitutes myocarditis. recently, definitions of myocarditis have been proposed and precise criteria for the morphologic recognition of myocarditis have been published. in this study an analysis of 12,747 consecutive autopsies performed from 1975 to 1984 at malmo (sweden) general hospital was carried out. applying the newly proposed histologic criteria, the diagnosis of myocarditis was made in 136 cases, which constitute 1.06% of the autopsy population studied. this rate of myocarditis incidence at postmortem is lower by far than rates previously published.
maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein screening: further consideration of low-volume testing. unrecognized assay drift that may occur during low-volume (fewer than 500 specimens per week) maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein testing could result in either underestimation or overestimation of the number of pregnant women who are at increased risk of fetal malformations and genetic anomalies. quality control software programs that incorporate the use of a multirule shewhart chart are designed to detect assay drift. careful selection of quality control sera for inclusion in analytic assays and appropriate application of a multirule quality control procedure to values that are obtained on these control materials should detect assay drift, regardless of the volume of patients' specimens in the run.
visual dysfunction in alzheimer's disease: relation to normal aging [published erratum appears in ann neurol 1991 mar;29(3):271] in patients with alzheimer's disease (ad), compared with age-matched and young healthy control subjects, visual deficits in the following functions were observed: color, stereoacuity, contrast sensitivity, and backward masking (homogeneous and pattern). critical flicker fusion thresholds were normal, relative to age-matched healthy subjects. for color, the majority of the errors were tritanomalous (blue axis). color and stereoacuity deficits were unrelated to severity of dementia, in accordance with models of vision that describe these functions as modular rather than diffuse for cortical localization. although contrast sensitivity was depressed throughout the frequency range in ad, more patients were impaired at low than at high spatial frequencies, contrasting with the observed normal aging pattern of high-frequency loss. healthy elderly subjects showed depressed critical flicker fusion thresholds and reduced contrast sensitivity at high frequencies, relative to the young group; differences between these groups were not found for the other vision tests. a subset of the ad group received detailed neuro-ophthalmological examination, and no abnormalities were found. this finding, taken together with normal thresholds for critical flicker fusion, suggests that the widespread visual dysfunction reported here is more likely to be related to known pathological changes in primary visual and association cortex in ad than to changes in the retina or optic nerve.
rationale for different chemotherapeutic and radiation therapy strategies in cancer management. the two primary therapeutic strategies in cancer have been to give either chemotherapy and radiation therapy together or give a complete course of one treatment modality before starting the second. clinical studies show that toxicity has been one of the major deterrents to substantial improvements in cancer management when the two modalities are administered together. on the other hand, the prolonged time necessary to administer all of one modality followed by the other makes it likely that repopulation of the tumor during sequential treatment will diminish therapeutic effectiveness. a third strategy of giving chemotherapy and radiation therapy has been developed. this new regimen was designed to give chemotherapy initially, maintain the chemotherapy schedule to avoid any reduction in its effectiveness, and add radiation therapy as early as possible in between courses of chemotherapy to minimize the development of cross resistance. one of the primary objectives of alternating chemotherapy and radiation therapy is to increase the therapeutic index by reducing toxicity without a significant reduction in therapeutic effectiveness. recent clinical, experimental, and theoretic results with radiation therapy and chemotherapy for cancer management emphasize the necessity of giving both modalities with the greatest intensity possible in the initial phase of induction therapy. cancer treatment scheduling determines the toxicity and thereby limits the dose intensity that can be tolerated. scheduling may also govern the antitumor effect directly; however, normal host tissue makes the determination of the direct effects on the tumor difficult, if not impossible, in clinical studies. well-defined experimental solid-tumor systems provide the means for determining directly the relationship between toxicity and antitumor effects in relation to tumor burden and total therapeutic dose. in addition, its relationship to dose intensity and scheduling can be determined by the using more sophisticated research techniques, such as response surface methods. well-defined clinical protocols to determine how to interact chemotherapy with radiation therapy more effectively hold considerable potential for rapid improvement in treatment of radiosensitive and chemosensitive cancers.
primary sclerosing cholangitis. primary sclerosing cholangitis is a rare disease of unknown etiology. sclerosis of the bile ducts may actually be the final result of multiple factors such as autoimmune, bacterial, congenital, drug, or viral injury. the most commonly associated diseases are ulcerative colitis and chronic pancreatitis. except in the earliest stages of the disease, liver histologic findings are not specific. most patients present with jaundice, pain, and pruritus, although an increasing number of asymptomatic patients with inflammatory bowel disease and abnormal liver function are being identified. cholangiography is key to the diagnosis and is usually pathognomonic except in the unusual case where primary sclerosing cholangitis is confused with cholangiocarcinoma. many forms of medical therapy have been tried, including antibiotics, azathioprine, cholestyramine, colchicine, cyclosporine, d-penicillamine, steroids, and ursodeoxycholic acid. to date, none of these medications has been proved to alter the course of this disease. recent reports of ursodeoxycholic acid trials have been encouraging, but long-term results of ongoing randomized trials have yet to be published. in recent years, balloon dilatation of biliary strictures has been accomplished via endoscopic and percutaneous transhepatic approaches. however, in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis, these nonoperative manipulations must be done repeatedly, may entail multiple general anesthetics, and are difficult to perform. we believe that a direct surgical approach to the biliary tree with long-term transhepatic stenting is indicated in selected patients with severe hilar or extrahepatic stricturing, persistent jaundice or recurrent cholangitis, and no evidence of cirrhosis. hepatic transplantation should be reserved for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis who have well-established cirrhosis and have not responded to other therapeutic measures.
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency. five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy. there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one, mesangial-proliferative changes in two, and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two. four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance. the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised. affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis.
suicidal ligature strangulation with an elastic band. an unusual case of self-strangulation with an elastic band is described. the victim was a young hispanic male with a complicated psychiatric history, including suicide attempts. mechanisms of strangulation and mechanical asphyxial death are discussed briefly.
ptca of gastroepiploic bypass. a technique for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) of gastroepiploic bypass is described using standard ptca devices. severe spasm of gastroepiploic bypass occurred. modification of guide catheter position is suggested to avoid inducing gastroepiploic bypass spasm.
permanent external striated sphincter stents in patients with spinal injuries. nine patients with complete quadriplegia underwent external striated sphincter stenting with the wallstent in place of an external striated sphincterotomy. although suprapubic catheters were placed to provide an outlet should problems develop with the stent, they were successfully removed within 6 weeks in all but 1 patient. complete bladder emptying with reduced voiding pressures was achieved, together with a significant reduction in the duration of hyper-reflexic contractions. epithelialisation of the stent was almost complete within 3 months and intermittent catheterisation or endoscopy (and resection) is possible through the stent. although this is a preliminary report of this new technique, it is hoped that sphincter stenting will provide a rapid, safe and effective method of treating high pressure hyper-reflexia and detrusor sphincter dyssynergia in quadriplegic patients.
management of pseudarthrosis after arthrodesis of the spine for idiopathic scoliosis. sixty-three first, second, or third-time repairs of one or more pseudarthroses were done in fifty-one patients who had had an arthrodesis for idiopathic scoliosis. forty-five of the patients were female and six were male. the average age was 30.2 years. the indications for the sixty-three repairs were pain (twenty-five repairs), progression of the curve (sixteen), both pain and progression of the curve (twelve), and radiographic changes only (ten). failure of the implant was identified before 27 per cent of the sixty-three procedures. the pseudarthroses were diagnosed an average of 2.8 years after the initial arthrodeses. sixty-eight per cent of the defects were visible on plain radiographs preoperatively and 32 per cent were identified at operation. during the time between the original arthrodeses and the repairs of the pseudarthroses, the scolioses increased by a mean of 7 degrees and the kyphoses, by a mean of 10 degrees. harrington distraction was the most commonly used instrumentation (twenty-six [41 per cent] of the sixty-three procedures), and autogenous iliac bone was the most commonly used material for the graft (thirty-three [52 per cent] of the procedures).
vimentin is preferentially expressed in high-grade ductal and medullary, but not in lobular breast carcinomas. two hundred sixty-two invasive breast carcinomas dating from 1979 to 1984 were tested for vimentin and keratin on formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded sections. none of 26 lobular carcinomas expressed vimentin. vimentin expression in 10% or more of tumor cells was found in 78% of medullary (14 of 18), in 16% of ductal not otherwise specified (nos) (35 of 214), and in two of four mucinous carcinomas. a further seven tumors showed vimentin expression in less than 1% to 10% of the cells. vimentin was expressed in tumor cells of 30% (28 of 93) of grade iii invasive ductal nos carcinomas versus 7% (7 of 105) of grade ii and 0% of grade i carcinomas (0 of 10). vimentin was found to be preferentially expressed in tumors growing in broad, often anastomosing bands or sheets with extensive necrosis, scanty supportive stroma, high nuclear grade, and numerous mitoses. the authors conclude that vimentin is not detected in lobular carcinomas, but is preferentially expressed in medullary and in high-grade ductal nos breast carcinomas.
donor leukocyte transfusions for treatment of recurrent chronic myelogenous leukemia in marrow transplant patients. three patients with hematologic relapse after bone marrow transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with interferon alpha and transfusion of viable donor buffy coat. all had complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission, which persisted 32 to 91 weeks after treatment. in two patients graft-versus-host disease developed and was treated by immunosuppression. these results are an example of adoptive immunotherapy without cytoreductive chemotherapy or radiotherapy in human chimeras.
the vagus nerve, gastric secretions, and their relationship to peptic ulcer disease. although peptic ulcer disease was known to the ancients, the process by which the disease was produced remained a mystery. as advances were made in medicine and science, so too were advances made in the understanding of digestion and gastrointestinal disease. the treatment of peptic ulcer disease improved as our understanding of the digestive process grew. the current surgical treatment for peptic ulcer disease follows the principals articulated by lester r. dragstedt, md, phd, which he based on his observations in the research laboratory. we present a historical perspective of the role of the vagus nerve in the control of gastric secretions and its relationship to peptic ulcer disease, placing particular emphasis on dragstedt's contributions.
the frequency, causes and timing of death within 30 days of a first stroke: the oxfordshire community stroke project. in a prospective, community-based study of 675 consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke, of whom over 90% had computed tomography (ct) and/or necropsy examinations, 129 deaths occurred within 30 days of the onset of symptoms, a case fatality rate (cfr) of 19%. the 30 day cfr for patients with cerebral infarction was 10% (57 of 545, for primary intracerebral haemorrhage 52% (34 of 66), for subarachnoid haemorrhage 45% (15 of 33) and for those of uncertain pathological type 74% (23 of 31). the cfr for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 33% compared with 17% for those who had been independent pre-stroke. the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was not significantly greater (1.8, 95% confidence interval 0 to 4.3). there was a significant trend for cfr to increase with age (chi square for trend = 4.0, p less than 0.05). this relationship was found in those patients who had been functionally independent prestroke (chi square for trend = 7.9, p less than 0.005) but not in those who had been dependent pre-stroke (chi square for trend = 0.5, ns). the pattern of increasing cfr with increasing age amongst those who had been independent prestroke was seen particularly in patients with cerebral infarction (chi square for trend = 8.6, p less than 0.005). the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients with cerebral infarction who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 2.2 (95% confidence interval 1.2 to 4.1). fifty three percent of all deaths within 30 days of stroke were due to the direct neurological sequelae of the stroke.
correlates of survival and the daumas-duport grading system for astrocytomas. in order to examine the correlation between prognosis and the histological features of nuclear atypia, mitosis, endothelial proliferation, and necrosis in supratentorial adult astrocytomas, the authors reviewed 251 such cases treated at the massachusetts general hospital between 1972 and 1980. one point was given for the presence of each feature. the total number of features was translated into a grade as follows: none of the four features = grade 1 (one patient), one feature = grade 2 (36 patients), two features = grade 3 (33 patients), and three or four features = grade 4 (181 patients). the period of survival was significantly associated with grade, the presence or absence of each of the four histological features, patient's age, type of operation, radiation therapy, and extent of tumor (log rank, p less than 0.05). the variables associated with grade were age (p less than 0.001) and radiation therapy (p less than 0.02). after adjustment for these variables using a cox proportional-hazards model, the difference in overall survival time between patients in grades 2 and 3 was not statistically significant. when comparable groups of patients were examined in terms of age or receipt of radiation therapy, the median survival times differed markedly. patients 50 years of age or less had a median survival time of 68 months (grade 2 tumors), 29 months (grade 3 tumors), and 13 months (grade 4 tumors). patients over 50 years of age had a median survival time of 6 months (grade 2 and 4 tumors) and 9 months (grade 3 tumors). those patients who had received radiation therapy had a median survival time of 68 months (grade 2 tumors), 21 months (grade 3 tumors), and 11 months (grade 4 tumors). those patients who did not receive radiation therapy had a median survival time of 1 month (grade 2 tumors) and 2 months (grade 3 and 4 tumors); over half of these patients died within 2 months of surgery. this grading system, originally proposed by daumas-duport, et al., is simple, objective, and reproducible, and correlates well with survival times. the authors recommend that astrocytomas be graded on a scale of 1 to 4, with grade 1 reserved for the rare adult supratentorial astrocytoma with none of the four histological features.
chronic urticaria exacerbated by the antioxidant food preservatives, butylated hydroxyanisole (bha) and butylated hydroxytoluene (bht). two patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria in whom remissions were achieved with dye- and preservative-elimination diet had exacerbations of their urticaria when they were challenged under double-blind, placebo-controlled conditions with butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene. after elimination of butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene from their diets, there was marked abatement of the frequency, severity, and duration of their urticaria. these antioxidants appear capable of aggravating symptoms in certain patients with chronic urticaria.
echocardiographic evaluation of patients with clinically suspected arterial emboli. 153 patients (mean age 42 years, range 16-60) who had arterial embolic events were examined prospectively by transthoracic and transoesophageal echocardiography. patients older than 60 years and those with evidence of extracranial carotid artery occlusive disease were excluded. 84 patients had a cerebral ischaemic event, 50 patients had embolic events in an abdominal organ or limb, and 19 patients had acute retinal ischaemia. the transthoracic echocardiographic examination was normal in 92 patients (60%), whereas only 65 patients (42%) had normal findings after both transthoracic and transoesophageal examination (p less than 0.005). intracardiac masses, including valvular vegetations, were found in 39 patients (25%), including 27% of patients with cerebral embolism and 32% of these with peripheral embolism, but in none of the patients with retinal ischaemia (p less than 0.001). 47 patients (31%) had valvular disease, 10 (7%) had wall motion abnormalities, 23 (15%) had abnormalities of the interatrial septum, and 9 patients (6%) had diseases of the thoracic aorta. cardiovascular abnormalities were frequently found by echocardiography in patients with arterial emboli. the transesophageal technique significantly increased the chance of detecting such abnormalities, especially intracardiac masses.
characteristics of natural antibody responses to the circumsporozoite protein of plasmodium vivax. the antibody response to the prototype circumsporozoite (cs) protein of plasmodium vivax (cspv) was studied in thai soldiers experiencing occupational malaria. seventy-four (65%) of 114 men followed during assignment to a malaria transmission area developed blood-stage infection with p. vivax. igg antibodies against the central repeat region of the cspv protein were quantitated by elisa using the recombinant protein, ns181v20, as the capture antigen. one quarter of the subjects had detectable anti-cspv antibodies at the beginning of the study. cspv antibody seroconversion was documented in 16 of 26 subjects assessed during their first observed episodes of vivax malaria. this antibody response was of moderate magnitude, fell off after the first week post-diagnosis and appeared, at the low levels observed, to be unassociated with protection. continued assessment of anti-cspv antibody after subjects left the transmission area found no increase associated with release of p. vivax. these findings indicate that cs antibody responses to p. vivax during occupational malaria share many characteristics with responses to p. falciparum.
timing of corticosteroid treatment. effect of lung lymph dynamics in air injury in awake sheep. in paired experiments, we studied the effects of high-dose methylprednisolone on the acute pulmonary injury caused by 4 h of venous air embolization in 19 chronically instrumented, unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas. we compared the effect of methylprednisolone (30 mg/kg intravenous bolus) given before embolization, early (1 h) in the course of embolization, late (3 h) in the course of embolization, or after embolization (at the beginning of the recovery period). we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and lymph dynamics. in six sheep we also fixed lung tissue for semiquantitative histology, and in some we measured leukocyte concentrations in blood and in pulmonary lymph. methylprednisolone did not significantly affect pulmonary hemodynamics but it largely prevented lung injury when it was given before embolization. it also lessened the degree of lung injury when it was given during embolization, although this effect became less marked as treatment was delayed. methylprednisolone had no effect on lung injury when given after embolization was completed (4 h). we found fewer leukocytes attached to air emboli and fewer endothelial cell gaps in the lungs of sheep given methylprednisolone as prophylaxis. leukocyte counts were lower in lung lymph and higher in the circulating blood of methylprednisolone-treated sheep. we conclude that methylprednisolone has a preventive effect on air embolism lung injury, such that its effect is greater when given earlier during the development of injury.
air embolism of the brain in rabbits pretreated with mechlorethamine. infusion of 400 microliters air into the left internal carotid artery of five anesthetized rabbits caused transient pial arteriole air embolism, an immediate 41.9 +/- 0.8% dilatation of the embolized vessels, suppression of the cortical somatosensory evoked response to 29.4 +/- 2.7% of baseline, and a progressive decline in ipsilateral cerebral blood flow (measured by hydrogen clearance) to 46 +/- 4.1% of baseline after 2 hours. these values were significantly different from those at baseline and from the responses of 10 control rabbits given equivalent intracarotid saline infusions. twelve other rabbits were made leukopenic by treatment with 1.5 mg/kg i.v. mechlorethamine 72 hours prior to study. mean +/- sem leukocyte count decreased from 6,320 +/- 73/mm3 to 1,890 +/- 66/mm3 without any change in the leukocyte differential or erythrocyte and platelet counts. intracarotid infusion of saline into seven of the leukopenic rabbits caused no changes. in the other five leukopenic rabbits, infusion of 400 microliters air caused air embolism but did not produce the anticipated declines in cerebral blood flow or the cortical somatosensory evoked response, both of which remained indistinguishable from baseline values and responses in the seven saline-treated leukopenic controls. similarly, air-embolized arterioles showed nonsignificant dilatation in leukopenic rabbits. our data suggest that the decreases in both cerebral blood flow and brain function seen after air embolism require the presence of leukocytes.
pharmacological versus non-pharmacological prophylaxis of recurrent migraine headache: a meta-analytic review of clinical trials. in order to generate information about the relative effectiveness of the most widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions for the prophylaxis of recurrent migraine (i.e., propranolol hcl and combined relaxation/thermal biofeedback training), meta-analysis was used to integrate results from 25 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of propranolol and 35 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of relaxation/biofeedback training (2445 patients, collectively). meta-analysis revealed substantial, but very similar improvements have been obtained with propranolol and with relaxation/biofeedback training. when daily recordings have been used to assess treatment outcome, both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have yielded a 43% reduction in migraine headache activity in the average patient. when improvements have been assessed using other outcome measures (e.g., physician/therapist ratings), improvements observed with each treatment have been about 20% greater. in both cases, improvements observed with propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have been significantly larger than improvement observed with placebo medication (14% reduction) or in untreated patients (no reduction). meta-analysis thus revealed substantial empirical support for the effectiveness of both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback training, but revealed no support for the contention that the two treatments differ in effectiveness. these results suggest that greater attention should be paid to determining the relative costs and benefits of widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments.
camp mediates il-1-induced lymphocyte penetration through endothelial monolayers. endothelial cell incubated with il-1 have been shown adhere more lymphocytes than nontreated endothelial cells. here we demonstrate that il-1 can also increase lymphocyte penetration through endothelial monolayers in vitro. il-1 induced a transient increase in the number of lymphocytes penetrated through the endothelial monolayer into a filter in a time- and dose-dependent manner. this effect could be mimicked by increasing the cytosolic camp levels in the endothelial cells either by forskolin or dibutyryl-camp. concomitantly we were able to show that il-1 increased the cytosolic camp levels in endothelial cells. an inhibitor of adenylate cyclase, ddado, decreased both the il-1-induced camp elevation and lymphocyte penetration. a protein kinase a inhibitor ha 1004 could inhibit the il-1-induced lymphocyte penetration, where as protein kinase c (n-(2-guamidino-ethyl)-5-isoquinolinesyl foamide hydrocloride) and calcium-calmodulin (n-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalensulfanamide) inhibitors had no effect. adding dibutyryl-cgmp or calcium ionophore to the endothelial cells could not mimic il-1-induced penetration and finally il-1 did not induce pkc translocation in endothelial cells. these data support the view that il-1 acts via camp as a second messenger in regard to lymphocyte penetration through endothelial cells. the above data demonstrate that il-1-induced lymphocyte penetration through endothelial cells and that this il-1-induced signal is transduced via camp in endothelial cells.
differentiation of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. implantable devices capable of several modes of therapy will require differentiation of various ventricular tachyarrhythmias. three methods of arrhythmia analysis, magnitude-squared coherence, ventricular rate, and irregularity of cycle length were performed for 45 episodes of induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia in 15 patients. differentiation of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was possible by mean magnitude-squared coherence, less possible by rate, and not possible by beat-to-beat irregularity. faster monomorphic ventricular tachycardia overlapped with rates of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. differentiation of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was not possible by rate or irregularity. a progressive decrease in mean magnitude-squared coherence from monomorphic ventricular tachycardia to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia to ventricular fibrillation strengthens previous observations that coherence is a measure of rhythm "organization.".
muscle blood flow and muscle metabolism during exercise and heat stress. the effect of heat stress on blood flow and metabolism in an exercising leg was studied in seven subjects walking uphill (12-17%) at 5 km/h on a treadmill for 90 min or until exhaustion. the first 30 min of exercise were performed in a cool environment (18-21 degrees c); then subjects moved to an adjacent room at 40 degrees c and continued to exercise at the same speed and inclination for a further 60 min or to exhaustion, whichever occurred first. the rate of o2 consumption, 2.6 l/min (1.8-3.3) (average from cool and hot conditions), corresponded to 55-77% of their individual maximums. in the cool environment a steady state was reached at 30 min. when the subjects were shifted to the hot room, the core temperature and heart rate started to rise and reached values greater than 39 degrees c and near-maximal values, respectively, at the termination of the exercise. the leg blood flow (thermodilution method), femoral arteriovenous o2 difference, and consequently leg o2 consumption were unchanged in the hot compared with the cool condition. there was no increase in release of lactate and no reduction in glucose and free net fatty acid uptake in the exercising leg in the heat. furthermore, the rate of glycogen utilization in the gastrocnemius muscle was not elevated in the hot environment. there was a tendency for cardiac output to increase in the heat (mean 15.2 to 18.4 l/min), which may have contributed to the increase in skin circulation, together with a possible further reduction in flow to other vascular beds, because muscle blood flow was not reduced.
requirement of endogenous tumor necrosis factor/cachectin for recovery from experimental peritonitis. by intrasplenic immunization we raised a rat mab (mab v1q; igg2a, kappa) with a potent neutralizing activity against natural mouse tnf (1 microgram/ml mab v1q/100 u/ml tnf). mab v1q was used to study the role of endogenous tnf in experimental peritonitis induced by sublethal cecal ligation and puncture. mab v1q persisted for over 5 days in the serum of mice injected with 100 micrograms of the antibody and, therefore, proved useful for in vivo experiments. as little as 20 micrograms mab v1q/mouse prevented lethal shock of the animals by 400 micrograms lps/mouse. in sublethal cecal ligation and puncture i.p. injection of mab v1q directly and up to 8 h after induction of experimental peritonitis lead to death of the animals within 1 to 3 days. the lethal effect of mab v1q was compensated by injection of recombinant mouse tnf. similar mab v1q effects as in immunocompetent mice were shown in severe combined immune deficiency mice deficient of mature functional b and t cells. taken together, these data suggest that during the early phase of peritonitis endogenous tnf may stimulate nonlymphoid cells such as granulocytes, macrophages, platelets, and fibroblasts to ingest bacteria and to localize inflammation, respectively. these beneficial effects of tnf may determine survival. thus, our data may have implications for the therapeutic management of a beginning peritonitis.
severe tricuspid regurgitation after mitral valve repair: diagnosis by intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography. transesophageal echocardiography facilitates the evaluation of valvular repair in the operating room. the functional valvular morphology and degree of valvular regurgitation can be assessed before and after repair. this technique can also identify unsuspected findings--in this case, severe tricuspid regurgitation complicating cardiopulmonary bypass. we report a previously undescribed cause of traumatic tricuspid regurgitation.
near fatal subacute thallium poisoning necessitating prolonged mechanical ventilation. the authors describe a case of severe sensory-motor polyneuropathy caused by subacute thallium-intoxication rapidly progressing to respiratory failure due to complete muscle paralysis. after more than 2 months of mechanical ventilation, weaning from the ventilator was possible. further intensive physical rehabilitation required an additional 6 months hospital stay, and 18 months later, neurological recovery was complete except for the distal lower limbs muscles. the authors discuss the different forms of thallotoxicosis and the present treatment is reviewed. maximal prolonged therapeutic support should be offered in severe thallotoxicosis because of possible near complete recovery.
isoenzyme profiles of four strains of giardia lamblia and their infectivity to jirds. the infectivity to jirds (meriones unguiculatus) and the cyst excretion pattern of a recently isolated strain of giardia lamblia from egypt, strain cdc:1088:1 (egy), were compared to those of three well-established strains. all five jirds inoculated orally with strain uno:0487:1 (uno) became infected and began excreting cysts 3-6 days post-infection (dpi); no cysts were detected between 8-12 dpi after which time cysts were produced through day 19. four of the five jirds infected with strain atcc:30957 (wb) and three of the five jirds infected with strain cdc:0284:1 (va) excreted cysts from 6-20 dpi and 6-22 dpi, respectively. one of five jirds inoculated with egy excreted cysts on 8 dpi only. at necropsy, trophozoites were recovered from only three uno-infected jirds but from all wb- and va-infected jirds that excreted cysts. the one jird which excreted cysts of egy was negative at necropsy, but egy trophozoites were found in one non-patient jird. isoelectric focusing indicated that these four strains of g. lamblia represented three zymodemes. wb and va were assigned to one zymodeme, egy to a second, and uno, which shared common bands with both other zymodemes, to the third. although the similarities and differences in infectivity and cyst excretion patterns appear to coincide with the zymodemes to which the strains can be assigned, further study is needed to examine the parasitologic behavior of these strains in relation to isoenzyme patterns.
localization of basic fibroblast growth factor mrna in melanocytic lesions by in situ hybridization. basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf) is a mitogen for normal human melanocytes and keratinocytes in culture. experiments in vitro suggest that keratinocytes supply bfgf to melanocytes through a paracrine mechanism and that the aberrant expression of bfgf in melanomas confers growth independence from bfgf-producing cells. to determine whether bfgf is expressed in vivo, we examined a series of benign and malignant melanocytic lesions in situ using bfgf riboprobes on tissue sections, and correlated bfgf expression with histologic phenotype. seventeen melanocytic neoplasms were studied, including four common acquired nevi, four dysplastic nevi, four primary malignant melanomas, and five metastatic melanomas. nevic cells in benign intradermal nevi showed low signal intensity (1+), whereas compound and dysplastic nevi showed 2+ to 3+ expression in the junctional nevic cell population and 1+ expression in the dermal nevic cell population. melanocytes in primary melanomas had intermediate (2+) and those in metastatic melanomas had low (1+) levels of bfgf gene transcripts. fibroblasts expressed high levels (3+) and epidermal and adnexal keratinocytes moderate (2+) levels of bfgf in all cases studied. basic fgf expression in endothelial cells, known to produce and respond to this growth factor in vitro, was lower than that in the fibroblast and keratinocyte cell population and, in 10 of 17 cases, no bfgf mrna was detectable. this study shows that bfgf is expressed in nevomelanocytes in vivo in all melanocytic lesions studied and thus cannot be used as a marker for transformation. the presence of bfgf gene transcripts in the various dermal cell types and in keratinocytes suggests that it may act as an autocrine and paracrine growth factor in regulating cellular proliferation in the skin.
risk of myocardial infarction and death during treatment with low dose aspirin and intravenous heparin in men with unstable coronary artery disease. the risc group 796 men with unstable coronary artery disease (unstable angina or non-q-wave myocardial infarction [mi] ), were randomised to double-blind placebo-controlled treatment with oral aspirin 75 mg/day and/or 5 days of intermittent intravenous heparin. the risk of mi and death was reduced by aspirin. after 5 days the risk ratio was 0.43 (confidence intervals, 0.21-0.91), at 1 month 0.31 (0.18-0.53), and at 3 months 0.36 (0.23-0.57). aspirin reduced event rate in non-q-wave mi and unstable angina, independently of electrocardiographic abnormalities or concurrent drug therapy. heparin had no significant influence on event rate, although the group treated with aspirin and heparin had the lowest number of events during the initial 5 days. treatment had few side-effects and high patient compliance.
salt and hypertension. lessons from animal models that relate to human hypertension. a high nacl diet can raise blood pressure in both susceptible people and in susceptible animals, and the mechanisms are probably quite similar for both humans and animals. the possibly harmful effects of a high nacl diet are not unexpected since both prehistoric man and mammals evolved in a low nacl world. evolutionary forces molded mammals to adapt well to a low sodium intake; the modern high nacl intake goes "against the grain" of this adaptation. the high nacl diet can cause premature mortality by raising blood pressure in susceptible people. we have new evidence that in a hypertensive setting, a high nacl diet can increase mortality even though it does not cause a further rise of blood pressure. multiple small cerebral infarcts are a partial cause of this excess mortality. recent evidence also indicates that a high potassium diet reduces the rise of blood pressure caused by a high nacl diet, whereas a low normal potassium intake encourages an nacl-induced rise of blood pressure. it is the combination of kidneys that tends to retain nacl together with a high nacl intake that produces a rise in blood pressure. this combination tends to cause nacl retention, which can trigger a rise in blood pressure in susceptible humans and animals. such a rise in blood pressure can augment renal nacl excretion and regain the previous nacl balance. in the dahl salt-sensitive (ds) rat, there are several renal abnormalities that would tend to encourage sodium retention. by analogy, renal "abnormalities" are probably present in people susceptible to hypertension.
increased mepp frequency as an early sign of experimental immune-mediated motoneuron disease. intracellular recordings of miniature end-plate potentials were performed in extensor digitorum longus muscles from guinea pigs with experimental immune-mediated motoneuron destruction. in the early stages of the disease, the miniature end-plate potential frequency was elevated compared to that in control and normal animals. the amplitude and time course of the miniature end-plate potentials as well as the resting potential of the muscle fibers were not altered, which implies integrity of the postjunctional membrane. the increase in frequency of miniature end-plate potential reflects an increase of basal acetylcholine release and documents dysfunction of the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction. the increased frequency was associated with high levels of antimotoneuronal igg in the blood and the presence of igg at motor end-plates. these data suggest that the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction may be involved in the immune attack in animal models of motoneuron degeneration.
thromboexclusion of the right ventricle in children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum. twelve children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum underwent closure of the tricuspid valve as a part of a new surgical procedure. in two cases a concomitant fontan operation was performed. in each patient the right ventricle was very small and right ventricular pressure was higher than systemic pressure. ventricle-coronary connections provided flow of desaturated blood from the right ventricle into the coronary arteries in 11 of 12 cases. five of the 12 children did not survive operation and postmortem examination of each revealed severe acute and chronic myocardial ischemic damage and high-grade obstruction or interruption of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery. preoperative angiography demonstrated occlusive changes in the coronary arteries, resulting in right ventricular dependent circulation, in all five children who died and in one child who survived operation. seven children who survived operation are well 4 months to 3.5 years later. two have undergone subsequent successful fontan operation and two others are considered suitable candidates for this operation. tricuspid valve closure is recommended for a carefully selected group of infants with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum provided a right ventricular-dependent coronary circulation can be excluded on the basis of preoperative coronary cineangiography.
irrigation device for neuroangiographic procedures. a simple irrigation device for use in diagnostic and interventional neuroangiographic procedures is described. the device is used to flush bubbles and blood clots from catheter hubs. the authors also describe a technique in which this device can be used to prevent filling a catheter with air when a guide wire is removed.
lower extremity percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: multifactorial analysis of morbidity and mortality. we analyzed the outcome of 202 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta) procedures performed between 1983 and 1989 to quantitate procedural risks and define factors associated with suboptimal results or immediate clinical failure. premorbid factors studied included age, sex, treatment of single versus multiple lesions, stenoses versus occlusions, premorbid status of the limb (claudication vs limb threat), and most distal level of pta. adverse outcomes included complications (hematoma, acute occlusion, or thrombosis of pta site, distal embolization, failure to dilate or cross, arterial dissection, rupture, and significant systemic derangement), major amputations (below knee and above knee), and deaths. there were 66 complications (32.7%), 22 amputations (10.9%), and 12 deaths (5.9%) in our series. logistic regression analysis revealed that the major predictive variable for the occurrence of a complication (p = 0.002), and the only predictive variable for the outcomes of amputation and death (p = 0.0001 and p = 0.0139, respectively), was the premorbid clinical status of the limb. lower extremity pta is not an intrinsically benign procedure and is associated with a significant risk of complication, amputation, and procedure-associated death. these adverse outcomes cluster in patients with limb threat. therefore it may be reasonable to restrict the use of pta to patients with claudication and strictly selected cases of limb threat.
the population mean predicts the number of deviant individuals objective--to examine the relation between the prevalence of deviation and the mean for the whole population in characteristics such as blood pressure and consumption of alcohol. design--re-examination of standardised data from the intersalt study, an international, multicentre study on the determinants of blood pressure. setting and subjects--samples of adults representing 52 populations in 32 countries. main outcome measures--the relations, expressed as correlation coefficients, between the mean population values for blood pressure, body mass index, alcohol consumption, and sodium intake and the prevalence of, respectively, hypertension (greater than or equal to 140 mm hg), obesity (body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2), high alcohol intake (greater than or equal to 300 ml/week), and high sodium intake (greater than or equal to 250 mmol/day). results--there were close and independent associations between the population mean and the prevalence of deviance for each of the variables examined: correlation coefficients were 0.85 for blood pressure, 0.94 for body mass index, 0.97 for alcohol intake, and 0.78 for sodium intake. conclusions--these findings imply that distributions of health related characteristics move up and down as a whole: the frequency of "cases" can be understood only in the context of a population's characteristics. the population thus carries a collective responsibility for its own health and well being, including that of its deviants.
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests. serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation, which so often accompany systemic illness, have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy. we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests: a decreased serum t3 concentration; normal or, in critically ill patients, a low total serum t4 level; and a normal free t4 concentration. another, less frequent pattern (high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient. with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4, it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients; the vast majority are euthyroid. certain drugs confound the picture. the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids, both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism. other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices (e.g., amiodarone). knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness, starvation, and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease.
biliary cholesterol transport and precipitation: introduction and overview of conference. cholesterol is secreted into bile as cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles. the cholesterol and phospholipid are subsequently exposed to the bile salts contained in the bile, which leads to the process of micellation. two situations may arise depending on whether there is enough bile salt in proportion to cholesterol to complete this "maturation" process. if the cholesterol saturation is low, at equilibrium the bile salts will have completely micellized the vesicles. on the other hand, if bile is saturated with cholesterol, the micellation process is incomplete and vesicles and micelles will be present at equilibrium. the residual vesicle in this latter situation may have a higher cholesterol/phospholipid ratio because of the greater propensity of phospholipid to be micellized. this situation may result in cholesterol nucleation. the mechanism of nucleation from vesicles and the possible role of nucleating and antinucleating proteins in this process have been discussed.
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention. retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant. we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability. at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated. the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed. the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized.
a critical review of chemical lymph node clearance and staging of colon and rectal cancer at ferguson hospital, 1977 to 1982 a unique opportunity to evaluate the method of chemical lymph node clearance for colorectal cancer exists at ferguson hospital. lymph node clearance has been used at the institution since 1977, and this retrospective analysis was undertaken to ascertain its validity there. furthermore, the node positive group was evaluated to ascertain if the current staging system (turnbull, 1967) is prognostically accurate for the dukes' c group. specifically evaluated for possible prognostic variance was the survival of those patients whose tumors demonstrated partial bowel wall penetration and only one to four positive nodes, a "c1 subset," previously reported to have favorable prognosis. eight hundred sixty-four cases of colon and rectal cancer treated surgically from 1977 to 1982 were analyzed. there was a mean of 27 lymph nodes retrieved per specimen and a mean of 4.5 positive nodes per dukes' c specimen. there were 43 c1 and 201 c2 cases with five-year survival rates of 73 and 38 percent, respectively. the results of chemical clearance at ferguson hospital were found to be comparable with that of other centers using chemical clearance and superior to hand dissection. the c1 subset clearly is noted to have prognostic advantage and should occupy a separate designation in any staging system.
systemic preoperative chemotherapy with cisplatin, methotrexate and vinblastine for locally advanced bladder cancer: local tumor response and early followup results. a total of 44 patients with infiltrating, locally advanced bladder cancer (stages t 3a-b, t 4a-b and n+/n0) were treated with the systemic chemotherapy regimen of cisplatin, methotrexate and vinblastine (cmv) in the neoadjuvant setting, of whom 39 were evaluable for response. after planned radical cystectomy and 2 to 3 cycles of chemotherapy no tumor was found on the pathological specimen of 4 patients (10%), the tumor was downstaged in 19 (49%) and no change was observed in 16 (41%). toxicity included leukopenia in 29 patients (66%), 1 of whom died of granulocytopenic sepsis, nausea and vomiting in 39 (89%) and mild to moderate mucositis in 18 (41%). median followup is 12 months with a range of 6 to 39 months. of 32 patients followed for longer than 6 months 6 (19%) experienced progression or recurrence of disease. we conclude that preoperative cmv chemotherapy is effective in inducing downstaging of the tumor, although systemic toxicity limits its use to cautiously selected patients.
what is the best method for assessing the long-term outcome of surgery for accessory pathways and atrioventricular junctional reentrant tachycardias? the success of surgery for supraventricular tachycardia (svt) is evaluated by a variety of methods in different hospitals. unfortunately, the predictive values of these methods are not known. we therefore compared the various methods in 261 patients undergoing surgery for svt at westmead hospital since 1981. surgical outcome was assessed by early tests during the first week after surgery (serial 12-lead electrocardiograms, telemetric monitoring of the electrocardiogram, and electrophysiological study performed using epicardial wires); later tests at 6 months after surgery (12-lead electrocardiograms and electrophysiological study); and symptomatic review done by telephone interview at a median of 34 months after surgery. early tests were obtained in 97%, later tests were obtained in 76%, and symptomatic review was obtained in 98% of patients. all of the examined tests were inaccurate methods of surgical assessment compared with the late electrophysiological study. a large proportion of the patients proven to be surgical failures at the late electrophysiological study were not detected by early tests (83%), by later electrocardiograms (66%), or by symptomatic assessment (41%). accurate assessment of surgical outcome requires a late electrophysiological study to permit comparison of surgical techniques. late electrophysiological study also provides accurate information on the current risks and benefits of proposed surgery for communication to patients to enable them to make an informed decision on future treatment. most patients are willing to have a late electrophysiological study and usually benefit from clarification of their true surgical outcome.
pyoderma gangrenosum complicating felty's syndrome. the case of a 54-year-old woman with felty's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described. necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features. lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings.
pathogenesis of ischemic necrosis in random-pattern skin flaps induced by long-term low-dose nicotine treatment in the rat. the objectives of the present experiments were to study the effects of long-term low-dose nicotine treatment on skin hemodynamics, viability, and microvascular morphology in 4 x 10 cm dorsally based acute random-pattern skin flaps in the rat. in addition, the reversibility of the nicotine-induced detrimental effects on skin-flap viability following cessation of nicotine treatment also was investigated. low-dose nicotine (0.6 mg/kg) administered twice daily and subcutaneously for 24 weeks significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased skin-flap capillary blood flow, distal perfusion, and length and area of skin viability compared with the saline-treated control (n = 15). however, these same parameters in rats (n = 15) whose nicotine treatment had been withheld for 2 weeks prior to skin-flap surgery were not significantly different from the control, thus indicating that the detrimental effects of this long-term, low-dose nicotine treatment were reversible. the mean plasma level of nicotine in the nicotine-treated rats was 8.1 +/- 0.4 micrograms/dl and was within the range of plasma nicotine levels reported for human heavy cigarette smokers. light and electron microscopic studies did not show evidence of histologic damage to the cutaneous microvasculature in acute random-pattern skin flaps and samples of normal (nonoperated) skin in nicotine-treated rats. it is concluded that long-term plasma levels of nicotine similar to those of heavy cigarette smokers are detrimental to the capillary blood flow and viability of random-pattern skin flaps in the rat. these deleterious effects can be avoided if skin flaps are raised 2 weeks after cessation of nicotine treatment. this low-dose nicotine treatment does not cause histologic damage to the microvasculature. other pathogenic mechanisms of nicotine-induced skin flap ischemia are discussed.
unsuspected syphilitic hepatitis in a patient with low-grade proteinuria and abnormal liver function a 25-year-old patient was found to have cholestatic liver enzyme abnormalities during assessment for asymptomatic low-grade proteinuria at the us naval hospital in portsmouth, virginia. these abnormalities persisted for a 6-month period, and an extensive workup, including viral serologic studies, rapid plasma reagin test, iron studies, ceruloplasmin, antimitochondrial, antinuclear, and anti-human immunodeficiency virus antibodies, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and liver biopsy, was unrevealing until serologic tests for syphilis were repeated to evaluate a new onset of urethral discharge. the patient had none of the more characteristic signs of secondary syphilis. the liver enzyme abnormalities rapidly resolved after treatment with penicillin. syphilis remains the great impostor and still must be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities, even in a patient with no symptoms or signs of early syphilis.
course of diabetic retinopathy following cataract surgery five patients with mild to moderate retinopathy to both eyes underwent complication-free cataract surgery in one eye. within three months of surgery deterioration of the retinopathy was observed in the operated eye only. in four patients there was an increase of intraretinal haemorrhages and hard exudates, accompanied by clinically significant macular oedema manifested as retinal thickening and extensive fluorescein leakage from both the macular and the peripapillary capillary networks. of these four patients one also developed retinal ischaemia, evident ophthalmoscopically by flame-shaped haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots and angiographically by areas of capillary non-perfusion. the fifth patient showed proliferation of new blood vessels and vitreous haemorrhage. diabetic patients scheduled for cataract surgery should undergo a thorough preoperative evaluation of any existing retinopathy. postoperatively they should be followed up at close intervals so that any progression of retinopathy can be promptly detected and considered for laser treatment.
l-tryptophan use and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. we present a case of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in a patient taking large doses of l-tryptophan for sedation. he developed the now-classic findings of myalgias, skin changes, and marked eosinophilia. this syndrome was first recognized in late 1989, and epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an association of the clinical syndrome with ingestion of l-tryptophan. the mechanism of toxicity remains unknown. casual use of l-tryptophan has been diminished by its rapid removal from the nutrition counter of health food stores.
graves orbitopathy: correlation of ct and clinical findings. the clinical and high-resolution computed tomographic (ct) findings in 71 patients (142 orbits) with graves orbitopathy and 20 healthy patients (40 orbits) were retrospectively reviewed. the orbits with orbitopathy were subgrouped at clinical examination into those with (n = 18) and those without (n = 124) optic neuropathy. mean extraocular muscle diameters and the calculated muscle diameter index were significantly increased in all orbits with ophthalmopathy, particularly in those with optic neuropathy. graves orbitopathy affected the superior muscle group (63.4%) more than the medial (61.3%) or inferior (57%) recti. the most common pattern of muscle involvement involved all five measured extraocular muscles. solitary muscle involvement most frequently involved the superior muscle group (6.3%). significant enlargements of the retrobulbar optic nerve sheath and superior ophthalmic vein were noted only in orbits with optic neuropathy. anterior displacement of the lacrimal gland at ct correlated with clinical palpability and occurred more frequently in patients with optic neuropathy. severe apical crowding was the most sensitive indication of optic neuropathy at ct.
response to suxamethonium in a myasthenic patient during remission. a cumulative dose followed by an infusion was used to determine the dose response to suxamethonium in a patient with diagnosed myasthenia gravis who was in true remission (asymptomatic while receiving no therapy). the ed50 and ed90 values for suxamethonium were 0.08 mg/kg and 0.20 mg/kg, and an infusion rate of 3.2 mg/kg/hour was required to maintain a 90-95% depression of the single twitch response as monitored by integrated electromyography. these values are within the range for normal patients, and we conclude that myasthenic patients during a true remission may not demonstrate resistance to suxamethonium.
intraoperative coronary angiography using fluorescein. intraoperative coronary angiography using fluorescein was applied to evaluate the patency of saphenous vein grafts just after completion of the distal anastomosis. by this technique, the area of the revascularized myocardium was well estimated in real time. this intraoperative direct-vision examination gives us more timely and precise information during coronary artery bypass grafting.
osteosarcoma of the spermatic cord. malignant tumors of the spermatic cord are rare but the vast majority of these tumors are sarcomas. we report on a patient with osteosarcoma arising in the spermatic cord. left radical orchiectomy with high dissection of the spermatic cord was performed, and the patient remains free of recurrence 2 years postoperatively. we could find no previous discussion or report of this tumor.
myocardial uptake of indium-111-labeled antimyosin in acute subendocardial infarction: clinical, histochemical, and autoradiographic correlation of myocardial necrosis. indium-111-labeled antimyosin has been utilized in the diagnosis and localization of acute transmural myocardial infarction. the present report describes a patient who presented with a massive subendocardial infarction. two days after the injection of antimyosin, the patient's clinical status markedly deteriorated and he expired. postmortem examination demonstrated severe three-vessel coronary artery disease with extensive myocyte death in the endocardium. autoradiography and histochemical staining of the prosected heart demonstrated high correlation for myocardial necrosis and corresponded to clinical evidence for diffuse subendocardial infarction.
ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in leigh disease. an infant with leigh disease, who was the younger sister of a similarly affected infant, had been examined before the onset of the disease. ultrasonography revealed hyperechoic lesions in the putamen and caudate nucleus during the preclinical stage. at onset, these changes extended into the cerebral cortex and medulla. these lesions were also detected by t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (mri) as areas of increased signal intensity. her brother demonstrated the same ultrasonographic results; cranial computed tomography disclosed low-density areas in the basal ganglia which were detected as hyperechoic lesions by ultrasonography. these findings suggest that ultrasonography is useful in detecting early intracranial lesions in leigh disease.
variants of intestinal metaplasia in the evolution of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric ulcer. a follow up study. a follow up study with biopsy was initiated in 1982 to define the relations between variants of intestinal metaplasia and the evolution of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric ulcer. all patients (58 with chronic atrophic gastritis and 66 with gastric ulcer) had intestinal metaplasia at the start of the study. in the six year period to 1988 a total of 241 biopsies were performed on the patients with chronic atrophic gastritis and 243 on the patients with gastric ulcer. initially, 81% of the patients with chronic atrophic gastritis presented with type i intestinal metaplasia and 14% with type iii intestinal metaplasia. during follow up type i was predominant, often associated with grades 2 and 3 active disease (81%) and 45% of these patients reverted to a non-intestinal metaplasia status by the third year of follow up. in contrast, type iii metaplasia was more common in the absence of appreciable inflammation (78% of biopsy specimens), being persistent in five of seven patients in the third year of follow up, and was found to be associated with dysplasia in three of these patients. similarly, the initial biopsy specimen showed type i metaplasia in most patients with gastric ulcer (82%) and type iii in only 4%. type i metaplasia was also predominant in these patients (80%), particularly in active disease (68%), gradually regressing with healing. in contrast, type iii was associated with delayed ulcer healing and reactivation (75%; six of eight patients).
sudden cardiac death while wearing a holter monitor. the holter tapes of 61 patients (46 men, mean age +/- standard deviation 65 +/- 11 years) with sudden cardiac death while being monitored were analyzed. thirty-eight patients were known to have coronary artery disease, 5 had cardiomyopathy, and 7 had aortic valve disease. etiology remained unknown in 11 patients. mean new york heart association functional class was 2.5 +/- 0.7. thirty patients had received antiarrhythmic drugs and 32 had received digitalis. sudden death occurred at rest in 73%. in the hours before death, repetitive ventricular arrhythmias were found in 50 patients (82%), with atrial fibrillation in 34%. patients with bradyarrhythmic death (18%) had less complex ventricular activity compared to patients with tachyarrhythmic death (p less than 0.01). lethal arrhythmias--monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes, primary ventricular fibrillation, and 1:1 conducting atrial tachycardia--were found in 26 (43%), 15 (25%), 5 (8%), 3 (5%), and 1 patient, respectively. the coupling interval of the final ventricular tachycardia correlated inversely with the initial frequency of ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.05). for patients with tachyarrhythmic death, an increase of heart rate within the last 3 hours was noted (83 vs 89 beats/min, p less than 0.05). ventricular premature complexes and the proportion of patients with greater than 2 couplets and greater than 2 triplets increased significantly only within the last hour before death.
entrapment of a folded-over introducer sheath in the iliofemoral artery: an unusual complication of ptca guiding catheter exchange an arterial introducer sheath became folded over in the iliac artery during ptca. this probably resulted from withdrawal of a doubled over judkins left coronary guiding catheter through the introducer sheath. nonsurgical, atraumatic removal was accomplished after the acute bend of the introducer sheath had been withdrawn to the site of arterial entrance.
synchronous hodgkin's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia. our patient had stage iiiai hodgkin's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia. a slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease, spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia. it is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy. our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to hodgkin's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history.
an overview of intimal hyperplasia. many hypotheses have been postulated for the development of intimal hyperplasia in vein and prosthetic grafts. in these hypotheses, the central theme seems to be endothelial injury, but not always denuding injury. as we progress into the biologic era with more sophisticated research tools, the study of the endothelial cell may give us the answers to the problem of intimal hyperplasia. in addition, the leukocyte is still a relatively unknown entity and further modification of their function may hold promise.
abdominal wall pain: an alternative diagnosis. the cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms. some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious, e.g. hernias, but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes. this review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which, although common, may be easily overlooked.
time of rehabilitation admission and severity of trauma: effect on brain injury outcome. outcome after traumatic brain injury, defined by the glasgow outcome scale (gos) and length of stay in acute rehabilitation, was measured in 59 patients admitted to an intensive rehabilitation program to examine the effects of severity of the initial brain injury, severity of multiple trauma, and length of stay in the acute care hospital. severity of initial brain injury, best measured by length of coma, was the most significant predictor of gos outcome. length of acute hospitalization was a small, but significant, predictor of gos. severity of initial brain injury, length of acute hospitalization, and gender emerged as predictors of length of rehabilitation hospital stay. although length of acute hospitalization is apparently affected by severity of brain injury, it adds significantly--more than severity of brain injury--to the prediction of length of rehabilitation.
rapid baroreceptor resetting in dahl salt-sensitive rats. dahl salt-sensitive rats rapidly become hypertensive when exposed to a high salt diet, but dahl salt-resistant rats maintain normal blood pressure on a high salt diet. a defect in baroreceptor afferents is thought to play a key role in the low sensitivity of baroreceptor reflexes in dahl salt-sensitive rats even in the prehypertensive stage during low salt treatment. in the present study, we tested whether differences in rapid resetting ability might contribute to differences in baroreceptor function in dahl rats. four groups of rats were tested: salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats on low salt and high salt diets (0.15% and 8.0% nacl). we compared the rapidly resetting responses of baroreceptors from each group using an in vitro preparation. rapid resetting was assessed for each aortic baroreceptor (n = 46) by linear fit of the relation of pressure threshold and conditioning mean arterial pressure. each group had a wide range of resetting ratios (the slope of the resetting relation). despite higher initial pressure thresholds in salt-sensitive rats on a high salt diet, resetting ratios among the four groups were similar. thus, the ability of dahl salt-sensitive baroreceptors to rapidly reset is preserved, despite high dietary salt and a genetic predisposition to dysfunction. the present findings in dahl rats reinforce the results of recent studies of rapid resetting during spontaneous and renal hypertension, which suggests that the rapid resetting process is remarkably resistant to factors that compromise baroreceptor function.
expression of laminin and its receptor lbp-32 in human and rat hepatoma cells. dramatic cellular changes that occur during hepatocarcinogenesis are associated with major alterations in extracellular matrix formation and in the relationships between cells and their microenvironment. we have studied the expression of laminin, the major noncollagenous glycoprotein of basement membrane, and the laminin receptor 32 kd laminin-binding protein in two rat (faza 967 and htc) and two human (hepg2 and hbgc2) hepatoma cell lines that express a variety of liver-specific functions. laminin was found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of these cells when the indirect immunoperoxidase method and electron microscopic examination were used. radiolabeled laminin, immunoprecipitated from both media and cell extracts, was resolved by electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate gel in two major polypeptides that comigrated with the a and b subunits from engelbreth-holm-swarm tumor laminin. immunoblot analysis showed that the mr = 400,000 polypeptide did not correspond to the a subunit of laminin. northern blot analyses demonstrated large amounts of b1 and b2 mrnas but no a chain mrna. we conclude that the tumor cells produce the laminin b chains only. in contrast, normal adult hepatocytes from either man or rat lacked laminin mrnas, whereas in 1-day primary culture, b chain mrnas became detectable. the steady-state level of 32 kd laminin-binding protein mrna was 10-fold and threefold higher in rat hepatoma cells than in freshly isolated and 1-day cultured normal rat hepatocytes, respectively. in human hepatocytes, the steady-state levels of 32 kd laminin-binding protein mrnas varied depending on the donor and never reached the level of the human hepatoma cells.
trends in basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma of the skin from 1973 through 1987. major increases have occurred in the incidence of basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin, as well as in cutaneous malignant melanoma during the period 1973 through 1987 in british columbia. the greatest increases in basal and squamous cell carcinomas are on the head and neck. this indicates that exposure to sunlight is the major causative factor. the greatest increase in melanoma is on the trunk in men and on the lower limbs in women. the dramatic increases in nonmelanoma skin cancers in british columbia, a relatively low sunlight area, suggest that major prevention programs are needed in areas that are not considered "sunspots.".
malignant melanoma occurring during pregnancy: a report of the northern israel oncology center (1968-1988). medical records of seven patients treated within a 20 year period for malignant melanoma during pregnancy were reviewed. no significant detrimental prognostic effects could be attributed to pregnancy. the current literature on melanoma and pregnancy is discussed. based on this, pregnancy seems not to be contraindicated in melanoma patients.
caseating hepatic granulomas in hodgkin's lymphoma. a 68-year-old man presented with recurrent hodgkin's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy. in addition to histological evidence of recurrent hodgkin's disease, the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas. cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for mycobacterium tuberculosis. no antituberculous treatment was administered, and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma. hodgkin's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver.
motility factor produced by malignant glioma cells: role in tumor invasion. to better understand the cellular mechanism of tumor invasion, the production of a cell motility-stimulating factor by malignant glioma cells was studied in vitro. serum-free conditioned media from cultures of rat c6 and human t98g cell lines contained a factor that stimulated the locomotion of the producer cells. this factor was termed the "glioma-derived motility factor." the glioma-derived motility factor is a heat-labile protein with a molecular weight greater than 10 kd and has relative stability to acid. the factor showed not only chemotactic activity but also chemokinetic (stimulated random locomotion) activity in the two types of glioma cells studied. although glioma-derived motility factors in conditioned media obtained from two different cell origins are likely to be the same, chemokinetic migration of t98g cells to their conditioned medium was much stronger than that of c6 cells to theirs. coincubation of cells with cytochalasin b, which disrupts the assembly of cellular actin microfilaments, almost completely inhibited the cell migration stimulated by glioma-derived motility factor. cytochalasin b also induced marked alterations in cell morphology, including cell retraction and arborization, while the drug did not affect cell attachment to culture dishes. these results indicate that glioma cells produce a motility factor which may play a role particularly when tumor cells are detached and migrate away from the original tumor mass, thus promoting tumor invasion. also, glioma cell migration stimulated by the motility factor requires the normal organization of cytoskeletons such as actin microfilaments.
usefulness of tomographic thallium-201 imaging for detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. the role of tomographic thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging in the detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) was evaluated in 116 patients: 61 (53%) with 1- and 55 (47%) with multivessel ptca, with a total of 185 dilated vessels. complete revascularization was performed in 89 (77%) and partial revascularization in 27 (23%) of the patients. restenosis was angiographically demonstrated in 69 (60%) of the patients and 85 (46%) of the vessels 6.4 +/- 3.1 months after ptca. disease progression in previously normal vessels was noted in 11 patients. the results were: (1) for detection of restenosis in the group of patients, single-photon emission computed tomographic (spect) versus exercise electrocardiographic sensitivity was 93 vs 52% (p less than 0.001), specificity 77 vs 64%, and accuracy 86 vs 57% (p less than 0.001). the results were similar in the complete and partial revascularization groups. (2) spect was 86% sensitive, specific and accurate for restenosis detection in specific vessels with comparable results for 1-versus multivessel ptca and complete versus partial revascularization. sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were: 89, 95 and 92% for the left anterior descending coronary artery; 88, 79 and 82% for the right coronary artery; and 76, 83 and 85% for the left circumflex coronary artery. eighty-one percent of the diseased nondilated vessels were correctly identified. (3) disease progression to greater than 50% stenosis was detected with 91% sensitivity, 84% specificity and 85% accuracy. spect thallium-201 imaging is an excellent tool for the detection of restenosis and disease progression after ptca in the settings of 1- and multivessel angioplasty and complete and partial revascularization.
cardiovascular disease risk profiles. this article presents prediction equations for several cardiovascular disease endpoints, which are based on measurements of several known risk factors. subjects (n = 5573) were original and offspring subjects in the framingham heart study, aged 30 to 74 years, and initially free of cardiovascular disease. equations to predict risk for the following were developed: myocardial infarction, coronary heart disease (chd), death from chd, stroke, cardiovascular disease, and death from cardiovascular disease. the equations demonstrated the potential importance of controlling multiple risk factors (blood pressure, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, smoking, glucose intolerance, and left ventricular hypertrophy) as opposed to focusing on one single risk factor. the parametric model used was seen to have several advantages over existing standard regression models. unlike logistic regression, it can provide predictions for different lengths of time, and probabilities can be expressed in a more straightforward way than the cox proportional hazards model.
synchronous diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma and gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia. diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma (d-wdll) and chronic lymphocytic lymphoma (cll) represent closely related neoplasms which may have indolent courses. dating back more than one century, reports of associated second primary malignancies continue to intrigue clinicians. a case of synchronous d-wdll and gastric adenocarcinoma, presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia, is presented. the case and literature are reviewed.
prevalence and characteristics of multiple analgesic drug use in an elderly study group. with few exceptions, use of multiple analgesic drugs achieves dubious increases in analgesia while placing elders at increased risk of the many potential adverse effects of analgesic drugs. the potential for duplication of analgesic therapy among the elderly is great due to prevalent painful chronic conditions and the variety of prescription and nonprescription analgesic remedies available. the prevalence of multiple analgesic product use and patterns of concurrent use of different analgesic categories was investigated in a geographically defined population of persons 65 years of age and older. the demographic characteristics of users of multiple analgesic drug products were examined, as were their smoking status, alcohol use, lifetime history rates of major illnesses, physical functioning, pain experiences, memory performance, and depressive symptoms. a substantial proportion of analgesic users reported taking multiple products in the preceding 2 weeks (14.4% of female and 10.5% of male analgesic users). men who reported pain in the preceding year were more likely to use multiple analgesic products. women who experienced pain or limited physical functioning, or who had higher depressive symptom scores or a life-time history of ulcers were most likely to use multiple analgesic products. thus, although some users of multiple analgesic products reported significant pain, several other factors were shown to be related to the phenomenon of multiple use.
doxazosin effects on insulin and glucose in hypertensive patients. the finnish multicenter study group. this study investigates the effects of prolonged doxazosin treatment on serum lipids, glucose, serum insulin, and blood pressure in hypertensive patients. following 26 weeks of treatment with doxazosin, supine and standing blood pressures were significantly decreased at a final mean daily dose of 6.4 mg. blood glucose levels were significantly lower at 26 weeks than after the initial placebo period (p less than 0.05) or after 4 weeks' treatment with doxazosin (p less than 0.001). there was a significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in serum insulin levels following 4 weeks of treatment, and a highly significant (p less than 0.001) decrease after 26 weeks. in addition, doxazosin produced a significant reduction in total cholesterol (p less than 0.05) and low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol (p less than 0.01) after 26 weeks, although the levels of high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol, very-low-density lipoprotein (vldl) cholesterol, and triglycerides showed no significant change. there was a tendency for the ratio of hdl: total cholesterol to increase. the combined changes in blood pressure, blood glucose levels, serum insulin, and serum lipids favorably affect the probability of developing coronary heart disease (chd).
gynecologic vascular abnormalities: diagnosis with doppler us. the authors describe the use of duplex and/or color doppler ultrasonography of the pelvis in three women to demonstrate the presence of venous malformations. one patient with a pulsatile vaginal mass was shown to have an arteriovenous malformation of the vaginal wall. the second patient was shown to have an unsuspected venous angioma in the endometrial cavity. the third patient was shown to have adnexal varices that closely mimicked hydrosalpinx. in the latter two cases, the duplex and color flow capabilities of an endovaginal probe were especially important.
spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage: imaging and management. we report on 10 patients with spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage associated with underlying disease, including renal cell carcinoma (5), angiomyolipoma (2), malignant melanoma (1), periarteritis nodosa (1) and severe portal hypertension (1). the etiology could not be identified with computerized tomography (ct) in 5 cases (50%), including 2 renal cell carcinomas, 1 angiomyolipoma, 1 periarteritis nodosa and 1 portal hypertension. arteriography demonstrated underlying lesions in 4 of these 5 cases (80%) including the case of vasculitis. ct combined with magnetic resonance imaging is accurate for the diagnosis of spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage but the underlying pathological condition is often undetectable in the acute phase due to the perinephric blood. ct should be the first study performed if this diagnosis is suspected. arteriography is recommended if a renal mass is not detected. if a mass is not identified with these 2 imaging studies and the patient is clinically stable, followup thin slice ct should be performed.
susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis: human leukocyte antigens dr4 and a1-b8-dr3 are independent risk factors. after nearly 18 years of research, the association between human leukocyte antigens a1-b8-dr3 and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis still provokes debate. the principal reasons for this are disease heterogeneity and racial variation in the distribution of human leukocyte antigens between populations. the aim of the present study was to reexamine the relationship between these antigens and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a well-characterized series of patients. ninety-six outpatients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and an additional 14 referred for liver transplantation with end-stage autoimmune chronic active hepatitis were studied. human leukocyte antigen frequencies were compared with those of 100 racially and geographically matched controls. the a1-b8-dr3 haplotype was present in 38% of patients compared with 11% of controls (chi 2 = 20.6, p less than 0.0005). when all the dr3-positive patients were eliminated, there was a striking secondary association with dr4; 35 (80%) of 44 remaining patients were dr4 positive compared with 31 (39%) of 79 dr3-negative controls (fisher's exact probability test p = 0.000031, pc = 0.0013). in addition patients with a1-b8-dr3 are seen at a significantly younger age than those without (39.75 yr vs. 48.21 yr, p less than 0.025), relapse more frequently (52% of patients with a1-b8-dr3 relapsed on one or more occasions compared with 34% of patients without this haplotype) and are more frequently referred for liver transplantation. these data indicate for the first time that two genes within the major histocompatibility complex closely linked to the dr3 and dr4 genes independently confer susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis.
clinicopathological features of elevated lesions of the duodenal bulb. we present here our findings on patients with an elevated lesion of the duodenal bulb. all these patients were treated in our clinics between the years 1984 and 1988. these lesions were present in 36 of 8,802 patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal pan-endoscopy. two patients had a duodenal carcinoma, 2 an adenoma, and 1 a brunner's gland adenoma. there were 15 with a hyperplastic polyp, 3 with a heterogenic gastric mucosa, 3 with brunner's gland hyperplasia, 6 with duodenitis, and 4 with regenerative mucosa. among these 36 lesions, only 69% (25 lesions) were evident on the upper gastrointestinal x-ray series. adenoma and brunner's gland adenoma were of a pedunculated form of the gross type and had an irregular surface mucosa. both duodenal carcinomas were detected by endoscopic biopsy and were resected. histologically, these lesions were limited to the submucosal layer and were of the non-pedunculated polypoid form, but there were no other characteristic endoscopic features, in comparison with other elevated lesions. thus, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with routine observations of the duodenal bulb plus endoscopic biopsy will lead to a definite diagnosis of these elevated lesions and to the early detection and treatment of this rare malignant lesion.
silent myocardial ischemia during rehabilitation for cerebrovascular disease. in asymptomatic patients the importance of silent ischemic st-t wave changes on holter monitoring is known to be a significant predictive variable for one-year mortality of postmyocardial infarction patients. this case report represents the uses of ambulatory ecg to detect ischemic st changes in patients who have had recent strokes. the cases reported here of silent myocardiac ischemia in stroke patients reflect previous reports in which 70% of the ischemic episodes in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease are not associated with angina and in which approximately 10% to 15% of acute myocardial infarctions are silent. we now believe that the incidence of "silent" ischemia may be precipitated in poststroke patients during their rehabilitation program. this belief is supported by two main factors. first, a high level of personally relevant mental stress exists which activates the sympathoadrenal system, which may lead to myocardial ischemia. second, some stroke patients become aphasic and are unable to communicate adequately even if they experience angina symptoms. we have found that poststroke, most patients could not undergo exercise treadmill testing secondary to a variety of factors: inability to coordinate limbs, poor endurance, inability to follow directions, and/or lack of attention. we now propose that 24-hour monitoring for st-t wave changes poststroke should be considered as part of a vigorous investigation for myocardial ischemia during the rehabilitation of these patients because they have an increased risk of cardiac morbidity.
the painful shoulder: part i. extrinsic disorders. shoulder disorders are most commonly manifested by pain and limited function. careful history and examination help the physician localize the problem to the shoulder joint, the surrounding tissues or adjacent sites that can cause referred pain to the shoulder. common extrinsic causes of shoulder pain include postural problems and cervical spine disorders.
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity. autologous lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 (ril-2) were administered intraperitoneally (ip) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space. ten patients had ovarian cancer, 12 had colorectal cancer, and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma. all ovarian cancer patients, three of twelve colorectal cancer patients, and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy. patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously (iv) for 3 days, and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days. lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter (davol, inc, cranston, ri) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours. all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy. toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distension, diarrhea, oliguria, fluid retention, thrombocytopenia, and minor elevations of liver function tests; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2. one patient had a grand mal seizure, and one suffered a colonic perforation; these were felt to be treatment-related. ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients. two of 10 (20%) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 (42%) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy- or laparotomy-documented partial responses. we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients, resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy. further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results.
biotype as determinant of natural immunising effect of cholera. to test the hypothesis that clinical vibrio cholerae o1 infections protect against recurrent cholera, treated cholera episodes in a rural bangladesh population of 188,153 people who were followed between 1985 and 1988 were analysed. of the 2214 people with initial episodes of cholera, 7 had a second episode. the incidence of cholera was 61% lower in subjects who had had an earlier episode than in those without such an episode. whereas initial episodes of classical cholera were associated with complete protection against subsequent cholera, initial episodes of el tor cholera were associated with negligible protection.
analysis of antigen expression at multiple tumor sites in epithelial ovarian cancer. the question of whether the antigenic phenotype of human epithelial ovarian cancer varies in a given patient between the primary tumor and metastatic sites or among metastatic sites themselves is an important issue in planning potential therapeutic strategies for ovarian cancer. we have obtained tumor specimens from at least two separate sites during operations on 12 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, and we have typed these specimens with a group of 18 monoclonal antibodies that react with cell-surface glycoprotein and carbohydrate antigens, including blood group antigens. antibodies with relative specificity for malignant cells as well as those that detect more widely distributed epithelial antigens were used. a total of 31 specimens from 12 patients with advanced adenocarcinoma (8 serous, 3 undifferentiated, 1 endometrioid) of the ovary were studied, including fresh ascites cells in two patients. frozen sections of tumor specimens were stained with the antibodies by the indirect immunoperoxidase technique and graded semiquantitatively. little difference was seen in antigenic expression of tumors that were obtained from various sites in the same patient for either the epithelial cell markers or blood group markers. intratumoral antigenic heterogeneity was seen, but this was generally quite consistent within a given patient's specimens. as anticipated, variations in antigen expression were seen among specimens from different patients. the antigenic phenotype of the tumor specimens in a given patient, as determined immunohistochemically by our group of antibodies, showed only minor variation among primary and metastatic sites.
validation of intermediate end points in cancer research. investigations using intermediate end points as cancer surrogates are quicker, smaller, and less expensive than studies that use malignancy as the end point. we present a strategy for determining whether a given biomarker is a valid intermediate end point between an exposure and incidence of cancer. candidate intermediate end points may be selected from case series, ecologic studies, and animal experiments. prospective cohort and sometimes case-control studies may be used to quantify the intermediate end point-cancer association. the most appropriate measure of this association is the attributable proportion. the intermediate end point is a valid cancer surrogate if the attributable proportion is close to 1.0, but not if it is close to 0. usually, the attributable proportion is close to neither 1.0 nor 0; in this case, valid surrogacy requires that the intermediate end point mediate an established exposure-cancer relation. this would in turn imply that the exposure effect would vanish if adjusted for the intermediate end point. we discuss the relative advantages of intervention and observational studies for the validation of intermediate end points. this validation strategy also may be applied to intermediate end points for adverse reproductive outcomes and chronic diseases other than cancer.
assessment of "squamous cell carcinoma antigen" (scc) as a marker of epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal. we measured squamous cell carcinoma antigen (scc) in epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal in 66 patients. samples were taken at diagnosis, before treatment, and during follow-up; 353 samples were analyzed. the positive threshold was taken as 2 ng/ml. at diagnosis, the sensitivity of the marker was 44 percent and its specificity 92 percent. in our series, the pretherapeutic level of scc does not correlate with t as in papillons' clinical staging system, but it does correlate with nodal invasion (p less than 0.05). it is of no prognostic value at the time of diagnosis. during follow-up, at relapse the level of scc is 20.3 +/- 43 ng/ml. this increase is significant (p less than 0.01): the sensitivity of the marker is 77 percent. in patients who have relapsed, development of the illness correlates with the level of scc, which is of prognostic value (p less than 0.01). in conclusion, the level of scc should be associated with the clinical follow-up of patients with epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal.
effects of the calcium antagonist nilvadipine on focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats. we studied the efficacy of preischemic and postischemic systemic treatment with a new calcium antagonist nilvadipine in a permanent focal cerebral ischemia model of spontaneously hypertensive rats. rats that underwent microsurgical middle cerebral artery occlusion were blindly assigned to a single intraperitoneal injection of nilvadipine (0.32 mg/kg) or the same amount of polyethylene glycol either 15 minutes before, immediately after, 1 hour after, or 3 hours after occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery. neurologic conditions of rats were closely examined, and rats were killed 24 hours later. removed brains were sliced coronally, stained with triphenyltetrazolium chloride, and the size of infarct was determined. although no neurologic improvements were observed in the treated rats, the area of infarcts was significantly reduced in the groups treated before, immediately after, and 1 hour after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. treatment started 3 hours after occlusion was ineffective.
bilateral malignant phyllodes tumours. we report a rare example of bilateral primary malignant phyllodes tumours. the diagnosis was supported by the identification of a benign epithelial element in each lesion. the case illustrates the typical dimorphic features of malignant phyllodes tumours. a contralateral tumour should not be regarded as metastatic without histological confirmation.
principles of treatment of pediatric solid tumors. great strides have been made in the treatment of pediatric solid tumors over the last three decades. a multimodality approach involving a combination of surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy is now used in the treatment of these diseases. this article reviews the principles that guide the use of these modalities and the multidisciplinary approach used to integrate them into a coordinated treatment plan. the role of each modality in the control of local and systemic disease is described. radiation treatment planning, dose fractionation, and toxicity are also discussed.
effect of pentoxifylline on hemodynamics, alveolar fluid reabsorption, and pulmonary edema in a model of acute lung injury. we investigated the effect of pentoxifylline (ptx) on the development of pulmonary edema in a model of adult respiratory distress syndrome in rabbits. lung injury was induced by repeated saline lavages in adult rabbits weighing 2.5 to 3.5 kg. rabbits pretreated with ptx (20 mg/kg bolus followed by 20 mg/kg/h infusion) developed significantly lower amounts of lung edema 4 h after saline lavage (extravascular lung water to dry weight ratio [w/d], 6.9 +/- 0.6 sd versus 8.9 +/- 0.5 in control animals). ptx produced a 25% increase in cardiac output, but there were no differences between treated and untreated groups in calculated pulmonary vascular resistance or microvascular pressure. to determine whether ptx could have lowered pulmonary venous resistance and thus lowered effective microvascular pressure for fluid filtration, we directly measured pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures, and measured by micropuncture the pressure in 20 to 40 microns subpleural venules in four open-chested rabbits 3 to 4 h after lavage. venous resistance was low (venous pressure drop 0.9 +/- 0.1 mm hg) and was unchanged by ptx infusion. to determine if ptx decreased lung water by accelerating active alveolar fluid reabsorption, a single 60-ml aliquot of saline was instilled into the lungs of normal rabbits treated with saline or ptx. both groups had a similar decrease in lung water content 1 and 4 h later. our data indicate that ptx reduces edema formation in rabbits after saline lavage, not by lowering microvascular pressures for fluid filtration or by acceleration alveolar fluid reabsorption, but possibly by its anti-inflammatory effect on neutrophil function.
haemangiosarcoma of the maxillary antrum. angiosarcomas are extremely rare in the head and neck and the histological diagnosis is often difficult. we present a case of a haemangiosarcoma of the maxillary antrum in a 33 year old male. the histological diagnosis and subsequent management are discussed.
the hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome. lipid abnormalities in patients with the nephrotic syndrome have long been recognized. however, the significance of these lipid abnormalities, the mechanisms producing them, and their potential treatment have all been a cause of debate. recent data have helped clarify each of these areas of controversy. studies of the lipoprotein abnormalities of patients with the uncomplicated nephrotic syndrome have shown that many will have elevated levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, whereas only a few will have elevated levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. if these lipid abnormalities have the same significance in this population as in other populations studied, then some patients with unremitting nephrotic syndrome will be at high risk for cardiovascular disease. the elevated cholesterol levels noted in the nephrotic syndrome are caused primarily by enhanced hepatic synthesis, with lesser contributions by decreased clearance and altered enzyme activities. the signal for enhanced hepatic lipogenesis may relate to changes in plasma albumin concentration, plasma oncotic pressure, a local effect of viscosity at the hepatic sinusoidal level, or a loss of urinary proteins or other liporegulatory substances. recently, a number of short-term studies in nephrotic patients have documented the safety and efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs such as the bile acid-binding resins, probucol, and the hmgcoa (hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a) reductase inhibitors.
patient factors predicting early alcohol-related readmissions for alcoholics: role of alcoholism severity and psychiatric co-morbidity. the current study was undertaken primarily to identify whether psychiatric co-morbidity was associated with the rate and time of alcohol-related inpatient readmissions for a group of 255 patients discharged from alcoholism treatment at a midwestern rural medical center. a structured interview obtained information regarding psychiatric disorders, including depression, antisocial personality disorders and polysubstance abuse, as well as alcohol history and sociodemographics. ninety-eight subjects (38.4% of sample) were readmitted for alcoholism-related diagnoses within 15 months of discharge. patients with a long history of heavy drinking, high daily alcohol consumption and history of previous alcoholism treatment were most likely to be readmitted with an alcoholism-related primary diagnosis. once these variables were controlled for, other major psychiatric disorders, polysubstances abuse and sociodemographic variables did not appear to predict time to readmission. however, other potentially more sensitive outcome measures such as return to drinking were not evaluated in the present study.
the "stuck twin" phenomenon: ultrasonographic findings, pregnancy outcome, and management with serial amniocenteses. thirteen consecutive twin pregnancies affected by the "stuck twin" phenomenon were reviewed to determine the potential benefit of serial amniocenteses. the fetal survival rate for the eight pregnancies that underwent serial amniocenteses was 69% (11 of 16 fetuses). this is significantly improved compared with a fetal survival rate of 20% among the five preceding pregnancies managed without serial amniocenteses at the same institution (p = 0.01). it is also markedly improved compared with a combined fetal survival rate of 16% among 48 previously reported pregnancies with the stuck twin phenomenon managed without serial amniocenteses (p less than 0.0001). survival correlated with the absence of concomitant pregnancy complications (i.e., maternal hypertension or intractable labor) and with the absence of severe fetal structural abnormalities. procedural complications occurred in three of eight pregnancies (37.5%) managed with serial amniocenteses and was attributed as a cause of fetal death in one case. two of 11 survivors (18%) had complications after serial amniocenteses including brain infarction and renal tubular necrosis. serial amniocenteses may significantly improve the survival rate of twin gestations affected by the stuck twin phenomenon but may be associated with complications among survivors.
razor-blade surgery. the razor blade can be a valuable tool in the performance of many minor surgical procedures. it is extremely sharp, flexible, inexpensive, readily available, and easy to use. the technique and specific applications are reviewed and discussed.
cryptosporidium infection in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: not always a poor prognosis. chronic diarrhea and malabsorption accompanied by simultaneous infection with the protozoa giardia lamblia and cryptosporidium occurred in a 22-year-old homosexual man with antibody to human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). small bowel biopsy demonstrated total villous atrophy and marked mononuclear infiltration in the lamina propria simulating celiac disease. treatment with metronidazole resulted in resolution of diarrhea, clearance of parasites, and marked improvement in small bowel histology. although diarrhea and malabsorption in immunocompromised patients with cryptosporidiosis are regarded as ominous, our patient remained disease free for the next 3 years. thus, infection with cryptosporidium in patients with hiv does not always lead to intractable diarrhea or death.
femoral mononeuropathy after radical prostatectomy. femoral mononeuropathy is a recognized complication following abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy. retractor injury and lithotomy position were postulated mechanisms. we report a femoral nerve lesion following a radical perineal prostatectomy.
the effectiveness of different methods of defining traumatic brain injury in predicting postdischarge adjustment in a spinal cord injury population. traumatic brain injury (tbi) can occur concomitantly with spinal cord injury (sci). much of the initial work in this area has focused on identifying coincidence rates and risk factors; less has focused on possible long-term implications of tbi when it occurs with sci. in this study, sci/tbi and neurologically matched sci-only groups were formed on the basis of clinicians' ratings of neuropsychologic test scores. sci/tbi and sci-only groups were also formed using halstead category cutoff scores, presence/absence of loss of consciousness, and clinicians' ratings of severity of tbi. dependent measures assessed an average of two years postinjury measured personal, social, and family adjustment of the individual with sci and that of a significant other. loss of consciousness and nonconsensus clinical ratings of presence/absence of tbi predicted postdischarge adjustment poorly. severity ratings in the moderate to severe range, and category cutoff scores did have some predictive value, with patients defined as impaired being more likely to report adjustment difficulties or being described as having adjustment difficulties by a significant other. the difficulty of making unequivocal diagnoses of tbi in this population is discussed and implications for future research delineated.
squamous cell carcinoma in situ arising in an ovarian mature cystic teratoma. report of one case with histopathologic, cytogenetic, and flow cytometric dna content analysis. a squamous cell carcinoma in situ arose in an ovarian mature teratoma (ie, dermoid cyst) in a 62-year-old woman. flow cytometric dna content analysis of paraffin-embedded in situ carcinoma showed a normal dna content with moderate to high proliferative activity (s-phase fraction estimate, 16% to 18%). cytogenetic analysis of the in situ cancer and the benign cystic portion of the tumor revealed a 46,xx karyotype. in addition, the benign cystic portion of the tumor revealed homozygous chromosomal heteromorphisms, compared with heterozygous markers found in peripheral blood lymphocytes. these results show that this squamous cell carcinoma in situ was euploid and suggest that the mature cystic teratoma was derived from a single germ cell after meiosis i.
steroid cell tumor of the ovary in a child. an 8-year-old girl exhibited severe, progressive virilization of 2 years' duration associated with markedly elevated circulating testosterone concentrations. based on her initial clinical presentation and results of a chemical evaluation, she was originally thought to have non-classic 21-hydroxylase deficiency, but her condition did not respond to corticosteroid therapy. further evaluation confirmed the presence of an ovarian neoplasm. the excised ovary contained an attached gray-brown mass. light microscopic and ultrastructural examination revealed the mass to be a steroid cell tumor. because reinke's crystals were not present, it was designated to be a steroid cell tumor not otherwise specified. this case represents one of 22 reported cases of steroid cell tumor occurring in children described in the literature, most of which have been associated with heterosexual precocity. to our knowledge, steroid cell tumors are benign when they occur in prepubertal children. although they are rare, steroid cell tumors of the ovary should be considered in cases of childhood virilization.
intussusception encephalopathy: an underrecognized cause of coma in children. intestinal intussusception is a common cause of bowel obstruction in infancy and early childhood. typically the presenting signs and symptoms are referable to the abdomen. on occasion the most prominent presenting feature is depressed level of consciousness. we describe 3 patients who presented with coma associated with intussusception.
the prevalence of cardiac valvular pathosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. the purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of valvular pathosis in a population of patients with sle, to assess the candidacy of such patients for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental treatment. the hospital records of 112 patients with sle were reviewed and screened for endocarditis, heart murmurs, and other valvular pathosis. two of the 112 patients had confirmed cases of bacterial endocarditis. this prevalence is comparable to endocarditis prevalence rates in patients with prosthetic valves and is also three times that in patients with rheumatic heart disease. the high prevalence of endocarditis in this population of patients with sle suggests that according to present perspectives on patient management, patients with sle should be considered for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental therapies associated with formation of a bacteremia.
angioscopy for intraoperative management of thromboembolectomy. our experience with angioscopy suggests that direct visualization of the arterial lumen during thromboembolectomy procedures would provide a more reliable method of assessing luminal morphologic characteristics than angiography alone. we inspected 32 grafts (seven aortobifemoral, 18 infrainguinal bypass, and seven dialysis access fistula grafts) in 32 patients. thirty-one patients had thrombotic events and one patient had an acute embolus. angioscopy following standard catheter thrombectomy revealed significant amounts of retained thrombus or neointima in all thrombectomies. angioscopic information from 18 patients with an infrainguinal bypass graft led to graft revision in six cases and placement of a new graft in 10 cases. one graft limb was replaced in seven aortobifemoral grafts, and multiple repeated thrombectomies were employed to extract debris in the remaining six cases. repeated graft thrombectomy was also beneficial in dialysis access fistulas. angioscopy allowed us to omit the completion angiogram and led to an improved technical result. we conclude that angioscopy is useful during thromboembolectomy procedures.
antibodies in anti-hbe-positive patient sera bind to an hbe protein expressed on the cell surface of human hepatoma cells: implications for virus clearance. the relevance of the recently described membrane-bound form of the hbe protein for the antiviral immune response was examined. the data show that antibodies in anti-hbe, but not in anti-hbc-positive human sera efficiently bind to the membrane expressed hbe. no evidence was obtained that the hbc can reach the cell surface in a form that can be detected with human antibodies. the findings suggest that the decline of virus titer that is usually observed after seroconversion from hbe to anti-hbe might be the result of an antibody-mediated elimination of infected cells.
follicular thyroid cancer treated at the mayo clinic, 1946 through 1970: initial manifestations, pathologic findings, therapy, and outcome we retrospectively analyzed the outcome of all patients who received their primary treatment for follicular thyroid cancer at the mayo clinic between 1946 and 1970. the diagnosis was confirmed by reexamination of preserved tissue specimens. the 57 female and 43 male patients (mean age, 53 years) underwent follow-up for a maximum of 32 years (mean, 17.4 years). all patients were treated surgically, and total removal of primary tumor was thought to have been accomplished in all but three. only 2 of the 88 patients without distant metastatic lesions at the time of initial diagnosis underwent ablation of the thyroid remnant. at the conclusion of the study, 52 patients had died, thyroid cancer being the cause of death in 19. on the basis of univariate survival analysis, age more than 50 years, tumor size that exceeded 3.9 cm, higher tumor grade, presence of marked vascular invasion, adjacent tissue invasion, and distant metastatic involvement at the time of initial diagnosis were associated with increased cancer mortality. multivariate analysis (by cox proportional hazards model), however, identified only age greater than 50 years, marked vascular invasion, and metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis to be independent predictors of follicular thyroid cancer-related mortality. patients with two or more of these predictors were classified as being high risk. these patients had 5- and 20-year survival rates of 47% and 8%, respectively; the corresponding survival data for the low-risk group were 99% at 5 years and 86% at 20 years. the identification of these risk groups may facilitate a more rational approach to treatment of follicular thyroid cancer.
the nature and course of olfactory deficits in alzheimer's disease. objective: the aim of this study was to determine the specific nature and course of olfactory deficits in alzheimer's disease. previous studies had noted impaired odor identification, but there was no unanimity about the presence of odor detection deficits. method: odor identification was tested in 55 patients with alzheimer's disease and 57 elderly control subjects by using the university of pennsylvania smell identification test. odor detection was assessed in 46 subjects with alzheimer's disease and 40 control subjects by using a forced-choice threshold test with geraniol as the odorant. results: significant deficits in olfactory identification were present in subjects who were in the earliest stages of cognitive impairment, and these deficits increased as alzheimer's disease progressed. there was some overlap in individual smell identification test scores between cognitively impaired patients and normal elderly subjects. on the other hand, odor detection deficits did not appear until alzheimer's disease was relatively advanced. smell identification test scores were correlated with mini-mental state scores, but geraniol detection was not. conclusions: odor identification is impaired early in alzheimer's disease and may be more influenced by cognitive status than is acuity of odor detection, which is not altered until later in the disorder. the pattern of hyposmia in alzheimer's disease suggests that the disorder may not "begin in the nose," as has been theorized previously. further refinement of olfactory testing may be useful in the diagnostic evaluation of early dementia.
prevalence of carcinoma in situ and other histopathological abnormalities in testes from 399 men who died suddenly and unexpectedly. to determine the prevalence of carcinoma in situ of the testis and other testicular histopathological abnormalities in the general male population, we examined gonads from 399 men 18 to 50 years old who died suddenly and unexpectedly. no sign of malignancy was found in any of these gonads. however, 3 of the 399 men had been previously treated for testicular tumor or carcinoma in situ. thus, the over-all prevalence of testicular neoplasia in the population studied was 0.8% (95% confidence limits 0.2 to 2.2%). this frequency is of the same magnitude as the lifetime risk of testicular cancer in the danish male population. the median weights of the left and right testes were 19.3 and 19.7 gm., respectively. this difference was statistically significant (p = 0.00003). thus, our study confirmed that on average the left testis is smaller than the right testis. the median weight of the gonads collected in our study was 0.9 gm. lower than the weight of testes examined 40 years earlier at the same department of forensic medicine. however, this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.17). microscopic examination of the gonadal specimens revealed that 83% of the men exhibited complete spermatogenesis, including late spermatids in all tubules. in the age group studied we found no age-related changes in testicular weight or in the proportion of tubules with degenerative changes, such as spermatogenic arrest, the sertoli-cell-only syndrome or hyalinization.
limitations in the evaluation of therapy in inflammatory bowel disease: suggestions for future research. the current treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), though improved over earlier therapies, remains variable rather than consistent and supportive rather than curative. the similar management of ulcerative colitis (uc) and crohn's disease (cd), which are thought to be differing though related disorders, suggests that therapy is nonspecific. the variation in therapeutic practices results from the fact that the etiologies of the diseases are obscure, from limited knowledge of the biological and pharmacological actions of drugs commonly prescribed (sulfasalazine, 5-asa compounds, steroids, 6-mp and azathioprine), from an inadequate understanding of genetic differences influencing drug metabolism, from insufficient awareness of the factors influencing drug efficiency (concurrent use of antimotility drugs, cigarette smoking, food combinations), from the variability of the patient groups studied (extent and severity of disease), and from incomplete documentation of the clinical status of patients at the time of therapeutic trial. future advances in treatment will depend on gaining new information about the nature of ibd and of drug pharmacology and bioavailability, derived from collaborative studies by clinicians, clinical investigators, and basic scientists. important areas for ibd research include the biology of intestinal epithelium, the nature of the ibd inflammatory reaction and of gut mucosal immune regulation (via the application of new biotechnologies) and more representative experimental animal models. decisive multicenter therapeutic studies require agreement on definitions of ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease, accurate characterization of patient groups, acceptable objective criteria of ibd severity and activity, and reliable indicators of therapeutic response.
sex differences in control of cutaneous blood flow. women are far more likely than men to suffer from raynaud's disease. the purpose of this study was to determine whether there are gender differences in local or central control of cutaneous blood flow that could account for the increased incidence of raynaud's disease in women. to assess cutaneous blood flow, hand blood flow (hbf), finger blood flow (fbf), or skin perfusion (sp) was measured by fluid plethysmography, mercury strain-gauge plethysmography, or laser doppler spectroscopy, respectively, in 47 volunteers. basal hbf in men exceeded that of women (12.1 +/- 2.0 versus 6.2 +/- 1.5 ml/100 ml/min). likewise, fbf in men surpassed that of women (19.5 +/- 4.1 versus 7.7 +/- 1.8 ml/100 ml/min). similarly, sp in men was greater than that of women (270 +/- 42 versus 81 +/- 16 perfusion units). however, after total body warming (to induce a thermal sympatholysis), hbf in women exceeded that of men, suggesting that the lower basal hbf in women was due to increased sympathetic outflow to the extremities. mental stress and deep inspiration reduced hbf and sp in men. paradoxically, both of these maneuvers increased hbf and sp in women. to determine whether these paradoxical responses in women were due to the women's elevated basal sympathetic tone, these experiments were repeated after total body cooling in men to increase sympathetic tone and after total body warming in women to reduce sympathetic tone. total body cooling reduced hbf and sp in men. under these conditions, mental stress and deep inspiration induced vasodilation. in women, total body warming for 10 minutes increased hbf.
outcome of prophylactic therapy for idiopathic anaphylaxis. objective: to determine the efficacy of a prophylactic regimen (prednisone, h1 blockade, and sympathomimetic amine therapy) in patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis. design: clinical trial before and after treatment. setting: referral-based allergy clinic at a major medical center. patients: fifty-three patients with a history compatible with idiopathic anaphylaxis for at least 6 months before presentation to the allergy service and with subsequent management by the service for at least 6 months. interventions: patients with frequent life-threatening symptoms were treated with a prophylactic regimen. patients with infrequent episodes of idiopathic anaphylaxis were only treated acutely for each episode of anaphylaxis. measurements and main results: the results favored prophylactic treatment with prednisone for patients who were classified as generalized-frequent in the clinical outcome measures of frequency (per patient per year) of episodes (mean before treatment, 7.31 +/- 6.46; after treatment, 3.61 +/- 4.73; p less than 0.02) and emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 1.94 +/- 3.42; after treatment, 0.21 +/- 0.44; p less than 0.005) and for patients classified as angioedema-frequent in the frequency of episodes (mean before treatment, 14.93 +/- 15.89; after treatment, 2.58 +/- 2.18; p less than 0.003) and emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 0.76 +/- 1.01; after treatment, 0.07 +/- 0.11; p less than 0.025). no statistically significant difference was found for patients classified as generalized-infrequent in the frequency of episodes (mean before treatment, 2.01 +/- 1.30; after treatment, 1.36 +/- 1.79) or of the emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 0.56 +/- 0.71; after treatment, 0.32 +/- 0.75) or for patients classified as angioedema-infrequent in the frequency of episodes (mean before treatment, 1.94 +/- 1.55; after treatment, 2.03 +/- 2.16) or of emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 0.27 +/- 0.44; after treatment, 0.37 +/- 0.59). conclusions: prophylactic treatment with prednisone and h1 antihistamines with or without sympathomimetic amines improves clinical outcome in patients who are classified as idiopathic anaphylaxis-angioedema frequent and idiopathic anaphylaxis-generalized frequent.
outpatient orthognathic surgery: criteria and a review of cases. over a 9-year period, 87 orthognathic procedures were performed in an outpatient environment. procedures performed included horizontal mandibular osteotomies, rapid palatal expansions, bilateral sagittal split osteotomies, posterior and anterior maxillary osteotomies, and le fort i osteotomies. fourteen of these patients were subsequently admitted to a hospital for either observation or full inpatient care. the rates of admission varied for each of the procedures, with length of anesthesia statistically related to the frequency of admission. patient selection criteria and facilities used are reviewed.
acute respiratory tract infection in children in idikan community, ibadan, nigeria: severity, risk factors, and frequency of occurrence. a longitudinal, community-based study of the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection (ari) in children less than 5 years old was carried out in a community of low socioeconomic level in ibadan, nigeria. the annual incidence of ari ranged from 6.1 to 8.1 episodes per child per year. the incidence was highest in the first 2 years of life and decreased with increasing age. the incidence was higher in boys than in girls. ari occurred in all seasons of the year. the most common symptoms were cough, nasal discharge, and fever, while the most common signs referable to the respiratory tract were abnormal breathing sounds, tachypnea, and chest retraction.
polyglucosan body disease. adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases. all had signs of peripheral neuropathy, upper motor neuron signs, and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems. dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases. we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features. electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy. somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal. sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies. although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific, the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis. branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal. hence, a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known.
posthospital course and outcome in schizophrenia. to study the early course of schizophrenia, we assessed 79 early phase, young, dsm-iii schizophrenic patients at two successive posthospital follow-ups, 2.5 and 5.0 years after index hospitalization. more than 50% of the sample had poor overall outcome, with either severe impairment in functioning and symptoms, or suicide, in the follow-up period. rehospitalization rates decreased significantly during the course of the two posthospital assessments, despite the sample showing persisting psychosis. only a small group of schizophrenic patients showed complete remission: 10% at the first follow-up and 17% at the second follow-up, when patients who suicided are excluded from consideration. while progressive deterioration is not common in schizophrenia, our relatively negative findings challenge the conclusions of some other longitudinal studies. implications of our data on schizophrenic course are discussed.
incidence of gallstones in a danish population. five-year incidence of gallstone disease was assessed by ultrasonography in an age- and sex-stratified random population of danish origin aged 30, 40, 50, and 60 years. the response rate was 82.8% (2987/3608). nonrespondents did not differ from respondents regarding variables concerning gallstone disease. the 5-year incidence of gallstone disease in men aged 30, 40, 50, and 60 years was 0.3%, 2.9%, 2.5%, and 3.3%. corresponding figures in women were 1.4%, 3.6%, 3.1%, and 3.7%. the incidence of gallstones was significantly higher in subjects aged 45 years or more compared with those aged 35 years. the sex difference in gallstone incidence decreased with increasing age. a significantly higher incidence of gallstone disease was found among subjects with former polyps in the gallbladder. spontaneous disappearance of gallstones was seen in 4.5%.
a randomized controlled evaluation of a psychosocial intervention in adults with chronic lung disease. the effect of a stress management program on morbidity and psychosocial and physical function in patients with chronic lung disease was assessed. adults attending either a va pulmonary clinic or university hospital pulmonary rehabilitation clinic who met criteria for obstructive or restrictive pulmonary disease were randomly assigned to receive the intervention or to a control group. the intervention was provided by a nurse and included one to three teaching sessions, reading material, audiotapes, and telephone follow-up. the program focused on stress management techniques such as cognitive restructuring, progressive relaxation, breathing exercises, and visual imagery. the 45 experimental subjects were similar to the 49 controls with respect to baseline characteristics. experimental and control subjects had similar rates of mortality, hospital days, bed-disability days, restricted-activity days, and physician visits during the 12-month follow-up. there were no differences between the two groups in physical or psychosocial function at six months or in levels of stressful life changes, social supports, and self-esteem at six and 12 months. intervention recipients had better function at 12 months, suggesting a possible benefit of the intervention.
experimental intravesical therapy for superficial transitional cell carcinoma in a rat bladder tumor model. a rodent bladder cancer model that is induced by intravesical instillation of n-methyl-n-nitrosourea (mnu) was characterized. cohorts of four to five week old female fisher 344 rats received four biweekly 1.5 mg. doses of intravesical mnu and were sacrificed at various intervals. by week 13 all animals had flat atypia and/or papillary transitional cell tumors, and 67% of the lesions were moderately (grade ii) or poorly differentiated (grade iii). by week 20, 83% had gross muscle invasive tumors that eventually killed the host. a cohort of 40 mnu treated animals was subsequently treated commencing at week 17 after initiation of mnu with one of three intravesical six week regimens: 1) saline; 2) bcg (tice strain); or 3) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (rtnf) plus adriamycin. there was no difference in animal survival or tumor growth in any group of animals commencing therapy at week 17. a second cohort of 107 animals commenced therapy at 13 weeks after initiation of mnu with one of five intravesical six week regimens: 1) intravesical bcg (tice strain); 2) adriamycin; 3) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (rtnf); 4) rtnf plus adriamycin; or 5) bcg plus adriamycin. bcg, rtnf or adriamycin alone had no effect on tumor growth; however, bcg plus adriamycin and rtnf plus adriamycin commencing at week 13 significantly inhibited tumor growth and progression. in conclusion, this autochthonous intravesical rodent transitional cell carcinoma model appears useful for the following reasons: 1) it closely resembles human transitional cell carcinoma histologically and biologically in that all animals develop neoplastic changes in-situ that progress to muscle invasion and kill the host; 2) as with human bladder cancer these tumors do not respond to intravesical therapy if treated when tumor burden is large; however, tumor growth is inhibited when treated early; and 3) this model appears appropriate for screening and developing new intravesical treatments for superficial bladder cancer.
antithrombotic efficacy of continuous extradural analgesia after knee replacement. we have studied the effect of extradural analgesia on postoperative venous thrombosis in patients undergoing knee arthroplasty. forty-eight patients were allocated randomly to receive either general anaesthesia or extradural analgesia with local anaesthetics for 3 days. all patients wore compressive elastic stockings and no anticoagulant drugs were administered. bilateral venography was performed 10 days after surgery. continuous extradural analgesia did not impede mobilization of the patients. one case of nonfatal pulmonary embolism occurred in a patient who received general anaesthesia. the use of continuous extradural analgesia resulted in a significant difference in the total incidence of deep vein thrombosis (18% compared with 59% after general anaesthesia (p = 0.02]. the incidence of calf vein thrombosis was 12% compared with 45% after general anaesthesia (p = 0.05).
breast cancer: the military's experience at wilford hall usaf medical center. we reviewed the experience with breast cancer at wilford hall usaf medical center for the years 1978 through 1988. a total of 868 cases were identified in the wilford hall tumor registry; overall 5-year and 10-year survivals were 63% and 39%, respectively. infiltrating ductal carcinoma represented the principal histologic category. the other predominant variants included invasive lobular carcinoma, lobular carcinoma in situ, and ductal carcinoma in situ. until recently, most of these patients (90%) had modified radical mastectomy as their definitive surgical therapy, with chemotherapy reserved primarily for patients with advanced disease.
1990 acromed award in basic science. cauda equina anatomy. ii: extrathecal nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia. inconsistent data exist regarding the anatomy of the spinal nerve roots lateral to the thecal sac. a newly developed in situ technique was used to precisely define anatomic parameters on 20 fresh human cadavers. the take-off angle of the nerve roots from the thecal sac decreases from a mean of approximately 40 degrees from l1-l5 to 22 degrees at s1. the motor bundles are directly ventral to the sensory fibers within individual roots extrathecally. dorsal root ganglia size varies with vertebral level. the majority of ganglia lie directly beneath the vertebral pedicles and one third overlie a portion of the lateral intervertebral disc. these previously undescribed relationships may aid in the understanding of lumbosacral neurocompressive disorders and are important to note during pedicle screw insertion, posterolateral decompression for spinal trauma, and paravertebral approaches for lateral disc herniations.
haemangiopericytoma of the temporal bone. haemangiopericytoma is an uncommon vascular tumour with a widespread distribution. although meningeal involvement is well recognized, only a few sporadic cases of temporal bone lesions have been documented, all with doubtful sites of origin. late presentation together with the restrictive anatomy of this region often precludes its effective removal and even minimal residual disease may progress rapidly. a series of three such patients are presented in order to discuss the natural history, histological features and treatment of this disease.
putative mechanisms of cytoprotective effect of certain antacids and sucralfate. an investigation of cytoprotective activity of certain antacids and inert particles was carried out by treating ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage in rats in order to clarify possible mechanisms by which aluminum-containing antacids act. al(oh)3 inhibited gastric mucosal damage in a dose-related and time-dependent manner. neither aluminum ions themselves nor the particle size of the al(oh)3 complex were responsible for the observed cytoprotection, since neither alcl3, chemically inert al2o3*c, nor sea sand showed protective effects. hyperosmolality in the gastric lumen was not a deciding factor in inducing cytoprotection. silicic acid and titanium dioxide, with superficial charge similar to al(oh)3 proved to be effective in inhibiting gastric hemorrhagic lesions and releasing pge2, suggesting that the surface charge of al(oh)3 may be important in its cytoprotective properties. the same may also be valid for sucralfate. since antacid-induced cytoprotection was only partly reduced by pretreatment with indomethacin, it is likely that additional mechanisms and mediators other than prostaglandins, such as nonprotein sulfhydryls, also are involved in gastric cytoprotection arising from aluminum-containing antacids.
association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage. to test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury (grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage), 67 very low birthweight (vlbw) infants of 32 weeks' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied. thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure. the groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome. thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension (89%) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage. this percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure (three of 31, 10%). the risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure. these observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in vlbw infants.
efficacy of percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty with the inoue balloon. percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty has become an accepted technique for use in selected patients with severe, symptomatic mitral stenosis. recently, a new balloon catheter with an "hourglass" shape and specially designed guidewires and dilators has become available (inoue balloon). the design of this balloon provides ease of manipulation and self-stabilization across the mitral valve during inflation. these features should decrease the incidence of complications associated with the procedure. preliminary results in 12 consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty with the inoue balloon are presented. the mitral valve area increased from 0.92 +/- 0.21 cm2 before the procedure to 1.75 +/- 0.40 cm2 after the procedure. no complications occurred from the procedure, including no increase in severity of mitral regurgitation or creation of an atrial septal defect. further follow-up is necessary to determine the long-term efficacy with this new balloon. nonetheless, the preliminary results are encouraging.
cathepsins d and e in normal, metaplastic, dysplastic, and carcinomatous gastric tissue: an immunohistochemical study. immunohistochemical distributions of cathepsins d and e were determined in normal mucosa, metaplastic, dysplastic, and cancerous lesions of the human stomach. cathepsins d and e were localised in the foveolar epithelium and parietal cells of the normal gastric mucosa, but their intracytoplasmic distributions were different - cathepsin e distribution was even and diffuse in the cytoplasm while cathepsin d was found in coarse intracytoplasmic granules. chronic inflammation and ulcer did not influence the distribution of these enzymes. no positive staining was obtained in the incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, and well differentiated adenocarcinoma. tumour cells of signet ring cell carcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma cells, however, gave strong and diffuse stainings for cathepsins d and e in the cytoplasm. the results suggest that the distribution of cathepsins d and e is related to each specialised function of the foveolar epithelium and the parietal cells, and that their disappearance is associated with development of well differentiated adenocarcinoma from intestinal metaplasia.
parenteral illegal drug use and limb loss. the problem of illegal drug abuse and extremity loss was identified in 27 patients-22 men and 5 women, with a mean age of 26 years. associated medical problems included: smoking in 27, cardiac disease in 2, diabetes in 3, and hypertension in 3. six femoral pseudoaneurysms, 2 with distal emboli and all with sepsis and thrombosis, directly contributed to limb loss along with 2 patients with progressive phlegmasia dolens. there were 3 below-the-elbow, 7 above-the-knee, 11 below-the-knee, and 6 transmetatarsal amputations. eight patients received prostheses; 8 patients subsequently died in follow-up.
pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome. a multisystem mitochondrial disorder in infancy. pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome (mckusick no. 26056) is a fatal disorder of hitherto unknown etiology involving the hematopoietic system, exocrine pancreas, liver, and kidneys. the observation of high lactate/pyruvate molar ratios in plasma and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation in lymphocytes led us to postulate that pearson's syndrome belongs to the group of mitochondrial cytopathies. since rearrangements of the mitochondrial genome between direct dna repeats were consistently found in all tissues tested, our results show that this disease is in fact a multisystem mitochondrial disorder, as suggested by the clinical course of the patients. based on these observations, we would suggest giving consideration to the hypothesis of a defect of oxidative phosphorylation in elucidating the origin of other syndromes, especially those associated with an abnormal oxidoreduction status in plasma.
embolization of a giant renal arterial aneurysm. a 49-year-old man presented with right flank pain. angiography revealed a giant right renal arterial aneurysm. giant renal arterial aneurysms are typically treated by nephrectomy. in this patient the aneurysm was embolized successfully with multiple gianturco-wallace coils and polyvinyl alcohol. this case indicates that embolization may be a reasonable alternative to nephrectomy.
outpatient laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy. laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy has been performed clinically in the united states since 1988. after refinement of the technique, the procedure was offered on an outpatient basis. eighty-three patients underwent laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy during the study period. thirty-seven (45%) had the procedure as an outpatient. younger patients were more suited for the outpatient procedure and those without previous surgery were more likely to have the procedure done as an outpatient. weight, operating time, and gallbladder pathology were similar, although patients with acute inflammation of the gallbladder were more likely to require hospitalization. the primary reason for patient admission was patient preference.
intrathecal immunoglobulin m synthesis in multiple sclerosis. relationship with clinical and cerebrospinal fluid parameters. intrathecal igm synthesis was assessed through the detection of oligoclonal bands in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and through calculation of igm index values and total csf igm amounts. intrathecal production of igm was then evaluated along with other csf parameters and clinical variables in 150 patients with multiple sclerosis (ms). intrathecal production of igm was detected in 55% of patients and was found to correlate with disease activity, manifesting as a recent relapse, as well as the total number of relapses. an inverse correlation was found between csf oligoclonal igm and both the time interval between the last relapse and lumbar puncture, and duration of the disease process. it also correlated with the number of leucocytes, free kappa and lambda light chain bands in csf. no correlation was found between intrathecal igm synthesis and degree of disability (kurtzke scale), disease progression index (poser scale), or total cerebral plaque burden (detected by enhanced ct and mri scans). oligoclonal igm bands were found to be more specific for active disease process than either igm index or total csf igm amount. it is concluded that intrathecal synthesis of igm, as detected by csf oligoclonal bands, is a useful parameter in monitoring disease relapse activity in ms.
chylous ascites due to sarcoidosis. a 33-yr-old black female with systemic sarcoidosis developed chylous ascites. a ct scan showed extensive mesenteric lymphadenopathy. at laparotomy, the mesenteric and para-aortic lymph nodes were enlarged and diffusely matted. histologically, normal lymph node morphology was virtually replaced with noncaseating granulomas. corticosteroids and dietary manipulations were unsuccessful in managing the ascites, and repeated large-volume paracentesis was necessary to provide symptomatic treatment. this is the first reported case of chylous ascites caused by sarcoidosis.
defining the role of subtotal colectomy in the treatment of carcinoma of the colon. seventy-two patients with colon cancer were treated by primary subtotal colectomy, including 23 patients with acute and subacute left colon obstruction. there were two operative deaths and no cases of disabling diarrhea. one death occurred in the group with colon obstruction. other indications for subtotal colectomy included multiple polyps associated with the primary tumor (32), synchronous carcinomas (15), a previous transverse colostomy for obstruction (8), associated severe sigmoid diverticular disease (2), age less than 50 years with a positive family history (3), adherence of the sigmoid loop to a cecal tumor (2), and metachronous carcinoma (2). there were multiple indications in several patients. subtotal colectomy has a defined role in a wide variety of clinical settings associated with colon cancer, including management of obstruction of the left and sigmoid colon, particularly if the proximal colon cannot be evaluated before operation by colonoscopy or barium enema. segmental or regional colonic resections are appropriate if the entire colon can be evaluated before operation and no associated neoplasms are revealed.
long term follow-up of descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral bypass. a prospective study of 26 patients undergoing descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral (dtai/f) bypass was conducted over a 13-year period with an average follow up of 53 months. reasons for selecting the procedure were occluded aortic bifurcation grafts (9 patients), hostile abdomen (6), infected aortic graft (1), microaorta (10, and surgeons preference in 8 patients who had juxtarenal aortic occlusion. the operative mortality was 3.8% (1 patient). a late mortality of 36% was due to myocardial infarction (1), lung carcinoma (2), renal failure (4), stroke (1) and pulmonary insufficiency (1). graft failure occurred in 4 patients at 23, 26, 54 and 109 months respectively. primary cumulative patency was 86% statistically valid at 42 months. dtai/f bypass is recommended in selected patients when conventional approaches to the aorta are considered unduly hazardous.
in vitro and in vivo evaluation of a right ventricular assist device. a simple right ventricular assist device (rvad) has been developed. this device will be useful in situations where biventricular failure has been partially treated by placement of a left ventricular assist device, or when right ventricular failure occurs in isolation. this pneumatically actuated, r-wave synchronized, sac type pump contains no valves, and is connected by a graft to the pulmonary artery. the rvad was tested in a circulation simulator to verify its hemodynamic efficacy and then implanted in six calves for 2-4 weeks to evaluate its biocompatibility. in vitro testing of the rvad demonstrated that it restored normal hemodynamics in the presence of severe simulated rvf. in six animal implantations, a small amount of thrombus was found in one pump. no anticoagulants were employed. thrombus was present in the connecting graft in three animals; in two this was clearly related to technical implant errors. no evidence of significant hemolysis was found. this simple rvad has been found to be hemodynamically effective, is simple to use, and is well tolerated. refinements in the interconnection graft between the pulmonary artery and the device are necessary.
immunoscintigraphy of ovarian cancer with indium-111-labeled ov-tl 3 f(ab')2 monoclonal antibody. the safety and diagnostic accuracy of immunoscintigraphy with the indium-111-labeled monoclonal antibody ov-tl 3 f(ab')2(111in-ov-tl 3 f(ab')2) for diagnosis and follow-up of ovarian cancer was prospectively studied in 31 patients. planar and spect scintigraphy were performed up to 4 days after i.v. injection of 140 mbq 111in-ov-tl 3 f(ab')2. surgical evaluation was possible in 22 out of 31 patients. imaging results were compared with x-ray computed tomography, ultrasound, and ca 125 serum level using the histologically confirmed surgical findings as a "gold standard." apart from a transient rash observed in two patients, no other immediate or delayed adverse reactions were observed. within the surgically evaluated group, ovarian cancer lesions were detected in 16 out of 17 patients (94%). of 45 distinct tumor deposits found at operation, 67% were detected and localized with immunoscintigraphy while x-ray computed tomography and ultrasound visualized 53% and 23%, respectively.
obesity and colorectal adenomatous polyps. obesity has been investigated as a risk factor for various malignancies, including colon cancer. a case-control study was conducted on patients in three colonoscopy practices in new york city to determine possible risk factors for colorectal adenomatous polyps, a known precursor lesion for most cases of colorectal cancer. among 301 case subjects with incidence adenomatous polyps (174 men and 127 women) and 506 control subjects (223 men and 283 women), an increased risk was observed with increasing body mass index in women (odds ratio 2.1, 95% confidence interval 1.1-4.0; for highest versus lowest quartile, linear trend p = .02). a nonsignificant trend was observed for men. the increased risk seen in women is consistent with prior observations regarding reproductive hormonal and dietary risk factors for colorectal cancer.
endotoxemia in human septic shock. to evaluate the incidence, pattern and clinical importance of endotoxemia in septic shock, frequent, serial endotoxin determinations were made prospectively in patients with shock. detectable endotoxin occurred in 43 of 100 patients with septic shock, but in only one of ten patients with shock due to nonseptic causes. during septic shock, endotoxemia frequently occurred in the absence of gram-negative bacteremia. using a logistic regression model, multiple organ failure occurred 10.3 times more frequently and depression of left ventricular ejection fraction (less than or equal to 45 percent) 4.8 times more frequently in endotoxemic patients. in patients with positive blood cultures, endotoxemia was associated with a high mortality. we conclude that endotoxemia occurs frequently in septic shock and is associated with severe manifestations of this syndrome, including cardiac depression and multiple organ failure. this study suggests that endotoxin is an important mediator of septic shock and supports efforts to develop anti-endotoxin therapies for treating patients with this disease.
a clinical study of acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage associated with various shock states. gastrointestinal hemorrhage from stress ulceration is a life-threatening complication in a critically ill patient. we retrospectively studied 471 patients admitted to the department of traumatology of our hospital who developed shock in their clinical course. forty-two patients (8.9%) developed gastrointestinal hemorrhage, most within 1 wk (76.2%). the hemorrhage lesion usually was located in the corpus of the stomach. the mortality rate of the shock patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage was 33.3% (14 of 42). comparison of different types of shock showed that the incidence, severity, and mortality rates of gastrointestinal hemorrhage were significantly higher in septic shock patients than in hemorrhagic shock patients. these findings show the importance of preventive therapy against progression of early mucosal damage and development of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in shock patients, especially those with sepsis.
audit of results of operations for infantile pyloric stenosis in a district general hospital because of the proposal that infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis should only be treated by surgeons with an interest in paediatric surgery, we carried out a retrospective study to audit our experience in a district general hospital. forty six infants over a five year period underwent pyloromyotomy. there were no deaths, and 36 infants (78%) made uneventful recoveries. perforation of the duodenal mucosa occurred during the operation in 11 patients, and eight complications developed in six of these infants. there were seven wound infections, and two patients had vomiting that lasted four days or longer after their operations. there were no long term feeding problems. the results of this study show that such patients can be successfully treated in district general hospitals, and three areas merit special attention: meticulous surgical technique, the use of prophylactic antibiotics, and early graduated feeding.
a follow-up study of intractable seizures in childhood. one hundred forty-five children with seizures that were refractory to medical therapy for at least 2 years were followed 5 to 20 years after onset. the majority of children with uncontrollable seizures (61%) were mentally retarded, and most of these (73%) had onset of seizures at younger than 2 years of age. age of onset was significantly later (mean 5.0 +/- 0.5 yr [sem]) in the group of children with borderline to normal intelligence. follow-up data showed remission of seizures in a significant proportion of children with borderline or normal intelligence, with a linear decrease of the percentage with persistent seizures at a rate of about 4% per year. remission of seizures was much less frequent (1.5%/yr) in the group with mental retardation. seizure type had some effects on outcome. children with focal atrophic brain lesions did no worse than those without definable pathology on brain-imaging studies.
influence of preservation or perfusion of intraoperatively identified spinal cord blood supply on spinal motor evoked potentials and paraplegia after aortic surgery. permanent ligation of arteries supplying blood to the spinal cord in operations for aortic aneurysm can lead to spinal cord ischemia, which can result in either paraparesis or paraplegia. this report describes a rapid method of intraoperative identification of those arteries that supply the spinal cord by use of an intrathecal platinum electrode to detect hydrogen in solution that has been injected into the aortic ostia. preservation or perfusion of those identified arteries supplying the spinal cord may decrease the rate of postoperative neurologic complications. of 28 porcine experiments with postoperative observation for 24 hours, there were 3 initial pilot experiments in which saline saturated with hydrogen was injected into the temporarily cross-clamped aorta. twenty animals were then randomized to (1) preservation of only the vessels sequentially identified to supply blood to the spinal cord from t-13 to l-5 (n = 10); (2) division of the vessels supplying the spinal cord (n = 10). a further five animals underwent perfusion experiments wherein the identified cord arteries were perfused by a shunt, the other nonsupply arteries were divided, and the aorta was kept clamped for 45 minutes. spinal motor evoked potentials were elicited with an intrathecal electrode and were highly sensitive for paralysis. paralysis occurred in 0/3 pilot (p less than 0.013 vs division); 8/10 division; 1/10 preservation (p less than 0.0017 vs division); and perfusion 1/5 (p less than 0.025 vs division). results of a pilot study in eight humans shows that the technique can be used to rapidly identify segmental arteries supplying the spinal cord, to determine if distal perfusion is supplying the spinal cord with blood flow, and if reattached segmental arteries are patent.
the unique aspects of acute promyelocytic leukemia. acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl) accounts for approximately 10% of cases of acute myeloid leukemia (aml). distinctive features of this disorder at the time of diagnosis include leukopenia coexisting with a marrow replaced with granulated dysplastic promyelocytes, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, lack of ia (hla-dr) antigen expression, and translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17 (t[15;17]). heparin is widely but not universally used to interfere with the coagulopathy during the initial phases of treatment. serial bone marrow examinations during the induction period demonstrate the achievement of remission despite the persistence of malignant-appearing promyelocytes. patients with apl are generally younger than those with other subtypes of aml, have a 70% to 80% likelihood of entering remission, and are thought to have a more favorable prognosis than other individuals with aml. remission may be achieved with a conventional anthracycline-cytarabine combination, anthracycline alone, or, apparently, all-trans retinoic acid. genes potentially important in myeloid differentiation such as granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf) and myeloperoxidase are located close to the breakpoint in the t(15;17) but have not been conclusively shown to be rearranged in the translocation. a better understanding of the unique aspects of apl may well shed light on the pathogenetic processes of aml.
coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient with cryoglobulinemia. coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) was performed in a patient with cryoglobulinemia. in order to decrease the concentration of cryoglobulin, the patient underwent double filtration plasmapheresis (dfpp) pre- and postoperatively as well as during cardiopulmonary bypass. bypass surgery was performed under total cardiopulmonary bypass, moderate systemic hypothermia, and ventricular fibrillation without aortic crossclamping. no adverse effects of cryoglobulin appeared during the peri- and postoperative course. technical considerations for open heart surgery in patients with cryoglobulinemia are described.
the tissue origin of low back pain and sciatica: a report of pain response to tissue stimulation during operations on the lumbar spine using local anesthesia. in an effort to define the origin of low back pain and sciatica, 193 patients were carefully studied using progressive local anesthesia. these patients had surgery for herniated discs, spinal stenoses, or both. various tissues were stimulated during the performance of these lumbar spinal operations. this article discusses our observations and the results of that study.
clinicopathologic review of twelve children with nephropathy, wilms tumor, and genital abnormalities (drash syndrome). the clinicopathologic and radiologic features of 12 children with complete and incomplete forms of drash syndrome are reported. their common denominator was a nephropathy. four had the full triad, consisting of nephropathy, wilms tumor, and genital abnormalities; five had nephropathy and genital abnormalities, and three had nephropathy and wilms tumor. of the 11 children who had proteinuria, eight had the nephrotic syndrome. of the 10 whose condition progressed to end-stage renal failure, seven were less than 3 years of age. the histologic features of wilms tumor were favorable in all seven children, and the tumor was bilateral in three. of the nine patients who had genital abnormalities, eight had 46,xy karyotype and either ambiguous genitalia (six patients) or normal female phenotype (two). one other patient had a normal 46,xx female karyotype and phenotype but had both mullerian and wolffian structures and a streak ovary. nine patients had a distinct pelvicaliceal abnormality not previously reported as a feature of this syndrome. other congenital abnormalities were aniridia, mental retardation, deafness, nystagmus, and cleft palate. this syndrome must be considered in any infant with unexplained nephropathy, particularly in young phenotypic female infants and in those children with ambiguous genitalia or wilms tumor with an early presentation.
reconstruction of patellar tendon rupture after total knee arthroplasty with an extensor mechanism allograft. although patellar tendon rupture after total knee arthroplasty (tka) is a rare complication, the consistently poor outcome of conventional tendon repair has convinced some to abandon such reconstruction in favor of a prospective protocol using an allograft distal extensor mechanism. the graft consists of a quadriceps tendon, a patella with a cemented prosthesis, a patellar tendon, and a tibial tubercle. since december 1985, 13 knees in 12 patients were reconstructed using this method. ten knees were followed for six to 51 months; five of these knees were followed for more than 24 months. knee extension power and improved function were ultimately attained in all cases, although minimal extensor lags were present in three cases. preoperative motion returned in all but one knee. healing of the allograft to the host tissue was attained primarily at all of the tibial junctions. two graft complications occurred, both in the first three months after surgery: one quadriceps junction treated by resuture failed at the one-month mark, and the other graft had to be revised for extensor weakness from rupture of the graft at the patella-patellar tendon junction, which was attributed to surgical damage to the tendon. after completion of healing to the host and rehabilitation of the knee joint, no grafts in the series failed during the course of normal daily activities. one patient fractured the allograft patella in a severe fall. the long-term durability of this construct needs to be studied further.
retrograde recanalization of an occluded posterior tibial artery by using a posterior tibial cutdown: two case reports. recanalization of two occluded posterior tibial arteries was successfully achieved by utilizing a retrograde approach via a posterior tibial artery cutdown at the level of the ankle. both cases were previously unsuccessfully attempted by using an antegrade approach. thus, the choice of access vessel (arterial entry site) becomes a crucial determinant of angioplasty success.
chronic pain. understanding of the etiology of chronic pain is growing rapidly as researchers seek to integrate physiologic and psychosocial mechanisms. when nurses assess clients with chronic pain, they should make their assessments using both verbal and nonverbal methods and realize that no one instrument is comprehensive enough to be used alone. the key to successful treatment of these difficult clients lies in the use of a comprehensive approach that takes the client seriously and integrates both physiologic and psychosocial approaches.
resistance to ischaemia of small afferent nerve fibres in diabetes mellitus. thermal thresholds were measured in the left forearms of 26 healthy subjects and 10 patients with diabetes mellitus during ischaemic compression block. during the period when ischaemic block of large fibres caused paraesthesia and loss of touch sensation, the cold threshold rose in normals. the cold threshold was less clearly elevated and the warm perception remained unaltered by ischaemia in diabetics. these results show that not only large afferent and efferent nerve fibres but also thinly myelinated a delta and unmyelinated c fibres are resistant to ischaemia in the diabetic nerve.
radiographic microcalcification and parenchymal patterns as indicators of histologic "high-risk" benign breast disease. breast tissue from a forensic autopsy series of 486 women (15 to 98 years of age) was studied radiographically and by histologic sampling. prevalence of wolfe p2/dy parenchymal patterns decreased with age. radiographic nonvascular microcalcification and histologic presence of marked ductal epithelial hyperplasia and lobular microcalcification increased with age. both of these histologic parameters of increased risk for breast cancer correlated with the presence of radiographic microcalcification and wolfe p2/dy parenchymal pattern. the predictive value of the radiographic parameters for presence of "high-risk" proliferative fibrocystic change increased with age.
noninvasive assessment of cardiac output in children using impedance cardiography. this study evaluated the effect of intracardiac shunting on the accuracy of thoracic bioimpedance-derived cardiac output determinations. twenty-six patients, ranging in age from 3 months to 17 years, underwent cardiac catheterization during which simultaneous fick and impedance measurements of cardiac output were obtained. the subjects were divided into three groups: 10 children with no intracardiac shunts, nine children with predominant left-to-right intracardiac shunts, and seven children with predominant right-to-left intracardiac shunts. positive correlations between impedance and fick-derived cardiac output determinations were obtained in the non-shunt group (r = 0.84), with lower correlations in the left-to-right shunt group (r = 0.70). in the right-to-left shunt group, the impedance derived cardiac output correlated with fick pulmonary flow (r = 0.82), but the variability was unacceptably large. although further study is needed, impedance cardiography appears to have validity as a methodology in pediatric critical care and cardiovascular health research.
coarctation of the aorta and post-stenotic aneurysm formation. despite earlier angiography, post-stenotic aneurysm of the aorta was an unexpected finding at operation in two patients with coarctation. one aneurysm was found in an intercostal artery in a 19 year old man and the other was a false aneurysm just distal to the coarctation site in a 7 year old boy. these aneurysms are fragile, apt to rupture, and difficult to diagnose preoperatively. though local factors such as jet streams and bacterial endocarditis may influence their formation there must be an underlying generalised weakness in the arterial wall. a coarctation should not be regarded as an isolated arterial abnormality because it may be a feature of a more generalised disease. because of the risk of rupture, which may not be prevented by antihypertensive treatment, operation should not be delayed in any age group.
volvulus of the colon. the charts of all patients with colonic volvulus at the university of louisville hospitals between 1983 and 1988 were reviewed. a total of 45 patients were identified, and there were 17 with cecal volvulus and 29 with sigmoid volvulus (1 had both). two-thirds of the patients were either demented, bedridden, or used constipating drugs. initial nonoperative decompression was achieved in 26 of 29 patients with sigmoid volvulus but in only three of nine patients in which it was attempted with cecal volvulus. two of these recurred, and 16 of the 17 cecal volvulus patients underwent operation. one-third of the sigmoid volvulus patients had at least one recurrent episode on the index admission. fourteen of the 29 had an operation, and half of these patients died following surgery. fifteen sigmoid volvulus patients chosen to be treated with successive nonoperative treatment had no mortality. mortality was higher following emergent (4 of 5) than elective (2 of 9) operation for sigmoid volvulus, and one of three died after operation for a successfully decompressed first episode. mortality for nonoperative reduction of an early recurrence was zero of four patients, while operative mortality for recurrence was two of seven (all had successful preoperative deflation). there was no mortality or recurrence in four patients with cecal volvulus treated by cecopexy alone, but all three patients died in whom tube cecostomy was performed. two of nine patients died following right hemicolectomy. these data suggest that if an elective operation is to be performed for sigmoid volvulus, it should be done following one or more recurrences and that nonoperative decompression can be safely performed on successive occasions.
multilevel occlusive vascular disease presenting with gangrene. the medical records of all patients subjected to lower extremity amputations during a 3-year period were reviewed. it was shown that advanced age and the presence of multiple medical problems do not predispose to higher levels of limb loss. although diabetic patients more frequently undergo amputation because of sepsis than their nondiabetic counterparts, the diabetic state was not found to be associated with a greater likelihood of above knee (ak) procedures. prior arterial surgery was not shown to make ak amputation more likely, but it was disconcerting to note that limb salvage was not achieved in many individuals despite patent proximal inflow revascularization procedures. this initial study showed that several presumed risk factors were not predictors of amputation level. those patients requiring ak amputations had a greater frequency of combined segment (aortoiliac and femoropopliteal) occlusive disease than those who had successful amputations at more distal levels. a follow-up study of 41 consecutive patients presenting with tissue loss due to combined segment occlusive disease was performed. eighteen (group i) underwent inflow procedures only, while 23 (group ii) also underwent distal revascularization. the groups were similar with respect to age, risk factors, extent of tissue loss and sepsis. at 1 year 10 (56%) group i and only 3 (13%) group ii patients required major amputation (p = 0.01). distal bypass, in addition to an inflow procedure, is recommended for those who present with tissue loss due to multilevel arterial occlusion.
host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat. animals, chronically treated with alcohol, were inoculated with mycobacteria (bacillus calmette-guerin, 10.2 x 10(6) organisms) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis. before infection, chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin, 71.7% of baseline (p = 0.009). mycobacterial (bacillus calmette-guerin) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417% of baseline in controls and 299% in alcoholics (p less than 0.001). the hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas (mean +/- sem, 81.2 +/- 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 +/- 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls; p less than 0.001). these changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver (54.5 +/- 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 +/- 1.83 in controls; p = 0.0006). this model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver.
legislative influences on cancer care. deficit reduction politics was a major force in policymaking in the 1980s and a pervasive fact of life in the development of health policy. the medicare budget was habitually used to find savings for deficit reduction and reforms, such as how to address the problem of 31 to 37 million uninsured americans, were postponed. the 101st congress did produce major physician payment reforms and in the spring of 1990, the pepper commission issued its recommendations for access to care and long-term care. less sweeping but significant proposals affecting cancer care were considered by congress. for example, positive actions were taken on anti-smoking and food labeling proposals. funding for the national institutes of health was increased, and there was a growing awareness of the threat to biomedical research presented by assaults on animal research facilities.
a case of amnesia after excision of the septum pellucidum. tumours of the septum pellucidum (sp) are rare and seldom associated with memory impairment either before or after operation. a patient is described who developed amnesia after transcallosal excision of a tumour of the sp. radiology did not show any major lesion of the brain areas traditionally associated with amnesia. because septal nuclei could have been damaged during surgery their possible role in memory functions is discussed.
cytokine release syndrome induced by the 145-2c11 anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody in mice: prevention by high doses of methylprednisolone. the hamster mab 145-2c11 specific for the cd3 complex of murine t lymphocytes shares many properties with okt3, including the induction of t cell activation. in vivo, the injection of 145-2c11 entails a variety of pathologic changes in relation to the systemic release of cytokines. we tested the effects on this cytokine release syndrome of different doses of methylprednisolone (m-pds) given at various intervals of time before the 145-2c11 mab. the administration of high doses of m-pds (50 mg/kg) 2 to 3 h before the mab resulted in an almost complete inhibition of the systemic release of tnf-alpha, il-2, and il-6. as far as the pathologic changes are concerned, the hypothermia, the acute renal tubular necrosis, and the fatty infiltration of the liver were completely prevented whereas the hypoglycemia was only partially attenuated. the protective effect of m-pds on the toxicity of 145-2c11 was confirmed by the reduction of the mortality rate among galactosamine-sensitized mice. the inhibition of the release of cytokines by m-pds did not affect the immunosuppression triggered by 145-2c11 as assessed by the ctl activity against alloantigens measured 48 h after the injection of the mab. we conclude that the administration of very high doses of glucocorticoids 2 to 3 h before 145-2c11 prevents the release of cytokines and attenuates the acute toxicity of the mab. similar protocols could allow mitigation of the cytokine-release syndrome induced by the okt3 mab in man.
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease. objective: the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease. design: prospective study with partially matched historical controls. setting: tertiary care community medical center. patients and methods: seven patients with advanced parkinson's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus. these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery. results: in the study group, six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions, lobar atelectasis, pneumonia, upper airway obstruction, and cardiac arrest. three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions, subsegmental atelectasis, purulent bronchitis, mild congestive heart failure, and atrial flutter/fibrillation. one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course. the first control group, whose only surgery was a craniotomy, had only one major complication. the second control group, the abdominal surgery control group, had one major and five minor complications. conclusion: the particular neurologic disease, its severity, and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group.
local failure and related complications after definitive treatment of carcinoma of the prostate by irradiation or surgery. the authors review their institution's experience with the failure of definitive treatment to achieve local tumor control and with the distant dissemination and local morbidity associated with such failure. the causes of local failure are various: incomplete resection, implantation of spilled cells, and, possibly, selective implantation of circulating tumor cells in traumatized tissues after surgery and totally or partially resistant cells, new tumors, or radiologic misses after radiation. treatment of local failure may be prophylactic or therapeutic and differs depending on the stage of the disease. failure to control the tumor locally in the presence of distant metastases does not alter the length of survival, but it can profoundly affect the quality of survival.
right hemothorax: an unusual presentation of ruptured aortic dissection. this report presents the case of a 55-year-old male with rupture of a descending thoracic aortic dissection into the right hemithorax who successfully underwent prosthetic graft replacement of the involved segment of the aorta through left thoracotomy.
synthesis of il-1 alpha and il-1 beta by arterial cells in atherosclerosis. interleukin-1 (il-1) has been implicated as a regulatory protein in the development and clinical sequelae of atherosclerosis. to determine which cells in the atherosclerotic plaque synthesize il-1 in situ, the authors evaluated histologic sections of iliac arteries from cynomolgus monkeys using probes for il-1 alpha and beta. a polyclonal antibody to il-1 alpha and beta was used to determine if proteins were concomitantly produced. the predominant cells expressing il-1 alpha and beta mrna were foam cells in the intima. adherent leukocytes and vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) expressed mrna for il-1 alpha. microvascular endothelium expressed mrna for both il-1 alpha and beta. il-1 proteins were located frequently in cells expressing il-1 mrna. these results indicate that endothelium and vsmcs, in conjunction with macrophages, serve as localized sources of il-1 protein synthesis. these findings suggest that vascular cells may contribute directly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic vascular disease by actively secreting potent biologic mediators that modify vascular and immune cell function.
prevention of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism after total hip replacement. comparison of low-molecular-weight heparin and unfractionated heparin. in a prospective, randomized, double-blind study, the efficacy and safety of a low-molecular-weight heparin were compared with those of unfractionated sodium heparin (standard heparin) in 136 patients who had elective total hip replacement. the patients received subcutaneous injection of either 5000 international units of low-molecular-weight heparin once daily or 5000 international units of standard heparin three times a day. treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin began twelve hours before the operation, and treatment with standard heparin began two hours preoperatively; both regimens were continued for ten days. twelve days postoperatively, bilateral ascending phlebography was performed in 122 patients, sixty-three in the treatment group that received low-molecular-weight heparin and fifty-nine in the treatment group that received standard heparin. pulmonary scintigraphy was performed in 127 patients. deep-vein thrombosis was diagnosed in forty-four patients: nineteen (30 per cent) of the sixty-three who received low-molecular-weight heparin and twenty-five (42 per cent) of the fifty-nine who received standard heparin. all but four patients, two from each treatment group, were asymptomatic. the difference in the total rate of thrombosis in the two groups was not significant (p = 0.189). however, thrombosis occurred in the thigh in only six (10 per cent) of the patients who received low-molecular-weight heparin but in eighteen (31 per cent) of those who received standard heparin, a significant difference (p = 0.011). pulmonary embolism was detected in twenty-seven patients: eight (12.3 per cent) of those who received low-molecular-weight heparin and nineteen (30.6 per cent) of those who received standard heparin. only three patients had clinical signs of embolism. pulmonary embolism was significantly more frequent in the group that received standard heparin (p = 0.016). total loss of blood and the total amount of blood that was transfused were significantly reduced in the patients who received low-molecular-weight heparin compared with those who received standard heparin. prophylaxis was not discontinued because of hemorrhage in any patient. the efficacy of low-molecular-weight heparin was superior to that of standard heparin in the prevention of femoral thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, although the over-all incidence of deep-vein thrombosis was not statistically different.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
dna ploidy pattern in rectal carcinoid tumors. the nuclear dna pattern of 22 rectal carcinoids was determined by cytophotometry of paraffin embedded tissues. the results were compared with clinical as well as histopathologic features of the tumor. three of the carcinoids with synchronous or metachronous metastasis had aneuploid dna pattern, whereas 19 tumors with no metastasis showed diploid dna pattern. no other single clinical or pathologic feature of the tumor could predict more accurately the malignant potential and the subsequent course of the rectal carcinoid. it is concluded that dna aneuploidy in rectal carcinoid tumors is not so rare as indicated by earlier studies and that it is a factor of significant prognostic value.
positive selection of candidate tumor-suppressor genes by subtractive hybridization. a positive selection system designed to identify and recover candidate tumor-suppressor genes is described. the system compares mrna expression of genes from normal and tumor-derived human mammary epithelial cells grown in a special medium that supports similar growth rates of the two cell types. mrnas uniquely expressed in normal cells are recovered as cdnas after subtraction with mrna from tumor cells. seven different clones, from 0.6 to 4.8 kilobases in transcript size and including both rare and abundunt transcripts, were recovered in the first 23 clones analyzed. among the isolated clones were genes encoding the gap-junction protein connexin 26, two different keratins, and glutathione-s-transferase pi, as well as an unknown gene in the s100 family of small calcium-binding proteins. in principle, tumor-suppressor genes include two classes: class i, in which loss of function results from mutation or deletion of dna and class ii, in which loss of function is from a regulatory block to expression. a class ii suppressor gene is assumed to be regulated by a different suppressor gene that lost its function by mutation or deletion. both classes of tumor-suppressor genes may provide valuable proteins with clinical applications in cancer diagnosis or therapy. class ii suppressors may be especially useful because the normal genes are present and their reexpression may be inducible by drugs or other treatments.
radical intracapsular removal of acoustic neurinomas. long-term follow-up review of 11 patients. historically, the neurosurgical treatment of large acoustic neurinomas has developed with two principal goals: complete tumor removal and preservation of facial nerve function. a recent goal for small tumors is the preservation of hearing. out of a personal series of 124 acoustic neurinomas treated over the past 35 years, the senior author has undertaken a radical intracapsular approach in 12 patients with large tumors (greater than 3 cm in diameter). surgical indications for intracapsular removal included advanced age (five cases), the patient's wish to avoid any risk of facial paralysis (six cases), contralateral facial palsy (one case), and contralateral deafness (one case). eleven of these 12 patients were available for follow-up review. tumor recurrence developed in two patients (18%) at 2 and 3 years postoperatively; there were no late recurrences. four patients died of unrelated causes, 10 to 19 years after surgery. the remaining five patients have survived a mean of 12 years since surgery without recurrence (range 3 to 22 years). facial function was preserved in nine patients (82%). the results suggest that radical intracapsular removal may be the procedure of choice under certain circumstances and may offer an alternative to focused high-energy radiation.
characterization of a factor-dependent acute leukemia cell line with translocation (3;3)(q21;q26). a strictly factor-dependent cell line (ucsd/aml1) was established from a patient with the syndrome of multilineage acute leukemia with high platelets. the patient's cells and the cell line karyotype were 45,xx,-7,t(3;3)(q21;q26), typical of the syndrome of acute leukemia with high platelets. the cell line expresses cd34, cd7, tdt, and myeloid (cd13, cd14, cd33) and megakaryocyte/platelet (cd36, cd41, cd42b, cdw49b) antigens. in short-term culture, ucsd/aml1 cells proliferate in response to interleukin-3 (il-3), il-4, il-6, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf), and granulocyte-macrophage csf (gm-csf), but not il-1, il-2, il-5, or g-csf. in long-term culture, proliferation can be sustained by gm-csf, il-6, or m-csf. when maintained in gm-csf, a small percentage of cells form multinucleated megakaryocyte-like giant cells. culture with gm-csf combined with il-6, but not with il-6 alone, increased giant cell formation fourfold to sevenfold. il-6 alone or in combination with gm-csf increased expression of platelet-related antigens. in contrast, culture with phorbol ester induced formation of macrophage-like cells. ucsd/aml1 is the first human acute nonlymphocytic leukemia cell line established from a patient with an acute leukemia syndrome associated with a specific chromosome abnormality.
effects of glucose on hypoxic vasoconstriction in isolated ferret lungs. to characterize the effects of glucose on the pulmonary vascular response to anoxia and hypoxia, isolated ferret lungs were ventilated with 28% o2 and 5% co2 and perfused at constant flow (100 ml.kg-1.min-1). perfusate glucose concentrations were allowed to fall spontaneously to less than 1 mm (low glucose) or were controlled at 5-6 mm (normal glucose) or 12-17 mm (high glucose). at 60, 120, and 180 min of perfusion, the inspired o2 tension (pio2) was reduced to 0, 10, or 30 torr for 30 min, and vasomotor responses were quantified by continuous measurement of pulmonary arterial pressure. at pio2 of 0 torr, the response consisted of an early phase of transient intense vasoconstriction and a late phase of sustained slight vasoconstriction. high glucose markedly potentiated the magnitude of late-phase vasoconstriction with each successive anoxic exposure. this effect was not reproduced in normal glucose lungs and was not caused by a change in perfusate osmolarity, an action on blood cells, or an altered ability of pulmonary vascular smooth muscle to contract. at pio2 of 10 torr, high glucose not only potentiated late-phase vasoconstriction but also slowed the onset of early-phase vasoconstriction. at pio2 of 30 torr, high glucose had no effect on vasomotor responses, which were characterized by a slowly developing sustained vasoconstriction. our results suggest that the vascular response of isolated ferret lungs to severe hypoxia consisted of separate early and late phases of vasoconstriction. this biphasic response may have resulted from two distinct vasoconstrictor mechanisms or from modulation of a single vasoconstrictor mechanism by a secondary vasodilator influence.
magnetic resonance imaging in neurological disorders. to investigate the role of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in neurological disorders, 115 children were studied in two groups. group a (78 patients) was studied by paired computed tomography and mri cranial scans. group b (37 patients) was studied by paired computed tomography assisted myelography (ctm) and mri spinal scans. in group a, the scans were generally equivalent for supratentorial tumours and for investigating fits, hydrocephalus, benign intracranial hypertension, and cerebral atrophies, but mri scanning was superior for posterior fossa tumours and cysts. in group b, mri scans were superior for intramedullary spinal tumours, spinal dysraphic problems with tethering or syrinx, and were complementary to ctm in diastematomyelia.
cancer in populations living near nuclear facilities. a survey of mortality nationwide and incidence in two states. reports from the united kingdom have described increases in leukemia and lymphoma among young persons living near certain nuclear installations. because of concerns raised by these reports, a mortality survey was conducted in populations living near nuclear facilities in the united states. all facilities began service before 1982. over 900,000 cancer deaths occurred from 1950 through 1984 in 107 counties with or near nuclear installations. each study county was matched for comparison to three "control counties" in the same region. there were 1.8 million cancer deaths in the 292 control counties during the 35 years studied. deaths due to leukemia or other cancers were not more frequent in the study counties than in the control counties. for childhood leukemia mortality, the relative risk comparing the study counties with their controls before plant start-up was 1.08, while after start-up it was 1.03. for leukemia mortality at all ages, the relative risks were 1.02 before start-up and 0.98 after. for counties in two states, cancer incidence data were also available. for one facility, the standardized registration ratio for childhood leukemia was increased significantly after start-up. however, the increase also antedated the operation of this facility. the study is limited by the correlational approach and the large size of the geographic areas (counties) used. it does not prove the absence of any effect. if, however, any excess cancer risk was present in us counties with nuclear facilities, it was too small to be detected with the methods employed.
buruli ulcer in benin in a study of 28 patients with mycobacterium ulcerans infection (buruli ulcer) in oinhi, benin, it became clear that the disease can regress as well as progress, and that patients can have lesions of different stages simultaneously. a system of disease staging was introduced (i = subcutaneous nodule; ii = cellulitis; iii = ulceration; iv = scar formation). research to find an effective treatment for this crippling disease is urgently needed.
essential fatty acid deficiency ameliorates acute renal dysfunction in the rat after the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin. the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin (pan) to rats causes the nephrotic syndrome that is associated with an acute decline in renal function, and an interstitial infiltrate. we examined whether essential fatty acid deficiency (efad), which inhibits macrophage infiltration in glomerulonephritis, affects pan-induced renal dysfunction. both control and efad rats developed proteinuria that resolved over 28 d. after pan administration, there was a prominent infiltration of macrophages in rats fed a normal diet. the infiltrate was prevented by the efad diet. the absence of a macrophage interstitial infiltrate was associated with a significantly higher cin in the efad rats than in controls at 7 d (5.21 +/- 1.19 versus 0.39 +/- 0.08, p less than 0.002 ml/min/kg bw). in addition, cpah fell to less than 10 ml/min/kg bw by day 7 in controls, but remained the same as normal in the efad. after administration of pan to control rats, there was no increase in urinary thromboxane excretion or an increase in glomerular thromboxane production. furthermore, the effect of efad could not be mimicked by the administration of a thromboxane synthase inhibitor. irradiation-induced leukopenia in rats on a normal diet markedly improved glomerular filtration and renal blood flow in acutely nephrotic rats. efad prevents the interstitial cellular infiltrate and the renal ischemia associated with experimental nephrosis. the recruitment of mononuclear cells into the kidney following pan directly contributes to the decline in renal function.
transformation-associated alterations in interactions between pre-b cells and fibronectin. marrow stromal elements produce as yet uncharacterized soluble growth factors that can stimulate the proliferation of murine pre-b cells, although close contact between these two cell types appears to ensure a better pre-b cell response. we have now shown that freshly isolated normal pre-b cells (ie, the b220+, surface mu- fraction of adult mouse bone marrow) adhere to fibronectin (fn) via an rgd cell-attachment site, as shown in a serum-free adherence assay, and they lose this functional ability on differentiation in vivo into b cells (ie, the b220+, surface mu+ fraction). similarly, cells from an immortalized but stromal cell-dependent and nontumorigenic murine pre-b cell line originally derived from a whitlock-witte culture were also found to adhere to fibronectin (fn) via an rgd cell-attachment site. moreover, in the presence of anti-fn receptor antibodies, the ability of this immortalized pre-b cell line to proliferate when co-cultured with a supportive stromal cell line (m2-10b4 cells) was markedly reduced (down to 30% of control). this suggests that pre-b cell attachment to fn on stromal cells may be an important component of the mechanism by which stromal cells stimulate normal pre-b cell proliferation and one that is no longer operative to control their more differentiated progeny. two differently transformed pre-b cell lines, both of which are autocrine, stromal-independent, tumorigenic in vivo, and partially or completely differentiation-arrested at a very early stage of pre-b cell development, did not bind to fn. in addition, anti-fn receptor antibodies were much less effective in diminishing the ability of these tumorigenic pre-b cells to respond to m2-10b4 cell stimulation, which could still be demonstrated when the tumorigenic pre-b cells were co-cultured with m2-10b4 cells at a sufficiently low cell density. analysis of cell surface molecules immunoprecipitated from both the nontumorigenic and tumorigenic pre-b cell lines by an anti-fn receptor antibody showed an increase in very late antigen (vla) alpha chain(s) in both tumorigenic pre-b cell lines and a decrease in the beta 1 chain in one. interestingly, all of the pre-b cell lines expressed similar amounts of messenger rna for the beta 1 chain of the fn receptor. these results suggest that alteration of fn receptor expression on pre-b cells may represent a mechanism contributing to the outgrowth of leukemic pre-b cells with an autocrine phenotype and capable of stromal cell-independent, autonomous growth.
rectal examination in patients with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen objective--to determine whether rectal examination provides any diagnostic information in patients admitted to hospital with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. design--casualty officer or surgical registrar recorded symptoms and signs on admission on detailed forms. final diagnosis was noted on discharge from hospital. setting--district general hospital. patients--1204 consecutive patients admitted to hospital with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen as their major complaint; 1028 had a rectal examination on admission. main outcome measures--odds ratio for each symptom and sign related to final diagnosis. results of multiple logistic regression analysis for acute appendicitis. results--right sided rectal tenderness, present in 309 of those examined, was more common in patients with acute appendicitis (odds ratio 1.34, p less than 0.05). this odds ratio was considerably less than that for other clinical signs--namely, tenderness in the right lower quadrant (odds ratio 5.09), rebound tenderness (3.34), guarding (3.07), and muscular rigidity in the abdomen (5.03). in the logistic regression analysis of patients with acute appendicitis, when allowance was made for the presence or absence of rebound tenderness, rectal tenderness on the right lost its significance. six patients had masses palpable rectally, of which three were palpable on abdominal examination; the other three patients had acute appendicitis. no other unexpected diagnoses were established, and no useful additional diagnostic information was obtained by routine rectal examination. conclusion--if patients presenting with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen are tested for rebound tenderness then rectal examination does not give any further diagnostic information.
node-negative breast cancer: prognostic subgroups defined by tumor size and flow cytometry adjuvant systemic therapy for women with node-negative breast cancer is most easily justified for those patients at highest risk of relapse. we have examined the impact of tumor size, histologic grade, estrogen receptor (er) status, tumor ploidy, and s-phase fraction (spf) on relapse-free survival (rfs) for 169 patients with node-negative breast cancer in order to identify groups of patients at high and low risk of relapse. patients with small tumors (less than or equal to 1.0 cm) had a significantly better rfs than those with larger tumors (p = .005), with 96% remaining relapse-free at 5 years. patients with tumors less than or equal to 1.0 cm were thus excluded from analysis when attempting to define a group with a poor prognosis. within the group of patients with tumors greater than 1.0 cm, tumor ploidy (p = .63), er status (p = .3), or progesterone receptor (pgr) status (p = .24) did not predict for rfs. patients with grade 1 or 2 infiltrating ductal tumors had a significantly better prognosis than those with grade 3 tumors (p = .04). the prognostic factor that gave the widest separation between subgroups, however, was spf. patients whose tumors were greater than 1.0 cm with an spf less than or equal to 10% had a 5-year rfs of 78% compared with a 5-year rfs of 52% for those with an spf greater than 10% (p = .006). we have combined tumor size and spf to identify three prognostic groups: (1) tumor less than or equal to 1.0 cm, 5-year rfs 96%; (2) tumor greater than 1.0 cm plus spf less than or equal to 10%, 5-year rfs 78%; 3) tumor greater than 1.0 cm plus spf greater than 10%, 5-year rfs 52%. these prognostic groupings may help identify patients most suitable for adjuvant therapy.
stress and sudden death. the case of the long qt syndrome. the idiopathic long qt syndrome (lqts) represents a unique clinical example of stress-related sudden cardiac death. lqts is characterized by the association of several distinctive electrocardiographic features, among which prolongation of the qt interval is the best known, with life-threatening arrhythmias that usually occur under conditions of physical or psychological stress. effective therapies exist and are represented by antiadrenergic interventions; beta-adrenergic-blocking agents are the treatment of choice. when they fail, left cardiac sympathetic denervation has also proven to be very effective. the latter result suggests a role for alpha-adrenergic mechanisms in the arrhythmias of lqts. the stressors more frequently associated with syncopal events in lqts patients include fear, exercise fraught with emotions, swimming, and awakening because of a loud noise. experimentally, life threatening arrhythmias have been induced during a highly emotional situation in conscious cats with normal hearts in which right stellate ganglia have been ablated, resulting in qt interval prolongation. this selective denervation creates a sympathetic imbalance of the type proposed by one of the pathogenetic hypotheses for lqts.
cosmetic, functional, independent: self-help aids. self-help orthotics have been developed to assist functional activities for high-level spinal cord injured patients. the goal of rehabilitation has been to do this with as little intrusion on independence and cosmesis as possible. this paper describes devices to help a patient with c6 quadriplegia independently place his own utensils and eat with an almost normal appearance. the new self-help aids are made from standard silverware, a rivet, and two one-eighth-inch kydex loops. the loops are riveted centrally on the utensil, allowing for free rotation. the device was evaluated on a patient with c6, complete quadriplegia. the subject demonstrated independence in donning and doffing the device and in eating with an almost normal appearance.
pupillary and electroretinographic abnormalities in a family with neuronal intranuclear hyaline inclusion disease. abnormal pupillary function and a severely depressed electroretinogram were found in four members of a family with neuronal intranuclear hyaline inclusion disease, an idiopathic degenerative disorder that involves the central and peripheral nervous systems. symptoms were limited to the gastrointestinal system and consisted principally of abdominal pain, constipation, and severe weight loss. the discovery of light-fixed pupils in the propositus led to the first antemortem diagnosis by rectal biopsy in two generations of this family. abnormalities of gastrointestinal motility and pupillary reactions constituted the only objective evidence of autonomic dysfunction; the abnormal electroretinogram was the only evidence of central nervous system dysfunction.
oxygen-exacerbated bleomycin pulmonary toxicity bleomycin is an antineoplastic agent with potential for producing pulmonary toxicity, attributed in part to its free radical-promoting ability. clinical and research experiences have suggested that the risk of bleomycin-induced pulmonary injury is increased with the administration of oxygen. we report a case in which the intraoperative administration of oxygen in the setting of previous bleomycin therapy contributed to postoperative ventilatory failure. our patient recovered with corticosteroid therapy. physician awareness of a potential interaction between oxygen and bleomycin may help reduce the morbidity and mortality related to bleomycin therapy.
severe preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia secondary to uvular edema. a case report. in addition to hypertension and proteinuria, generalized edema is seen commonly in women with severe preeclampsia. a patient presented to us at term with the complaint of dysphonia. upon examination she appeared to be clearly preeclamptic and had a grossly edemetous uvula, which we think occurred secondary to generalized edema. this case might be the first reported one of preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia and of uvular edema in association with preeclampsia.
isotonic high-sodium oral rehydration solution for increasing sodium absorption in patients with short-bowel syndrome. we compared the effect of a standard oral rehydration solution and a high-sodium polymeric-glucose solution on sodium absorption in short-bowel syndrome. six patients with high jejunostomy were tested in a random order with the standard solution or a solution containing maltodextrins (18 g glucidex 12/l) enriched with 2.5 g nacl/l. solutions were administered via a nasogastric tube at a rate of 2 ml/min. jejunal effluent was collected during an 8-h period. the net 8-h fluid absorption was not significantly different in the two periods. glucose absorption was greater than 90% of the administered amount for both solutions. net sodium absorption was greater for the maltodextrin solution than for the standard solution (56 +/- 12 vs 24 +/- 20 mmol, p less than 0.05). we conclude that replacement of glucose with maltodextrins and addition of sodium in the standard oral rehydration solution results in improved sodium absorption in short-bowel syndrome.
acute hypercalcemic crisis after an open heart operation. acute hyperparathyroidism developed in a previously normocalcemic 64-year-old woman during the first week after a coronary operation. prolonged qt interval in the electrocardiogram and hypercalcemia were documented on the fourth postoperative day. neck exploration on the fifth postoperative day revealed a lower right parathyroid adenoma. parathyroidectomy resulted in rapid and dramatic improvement of the clinical picture and normalization of laboratory values.
transient entrapment neuropathy of the posterior interosseous nerve in violin players. eleven white male right handed violin players complained of transient muscular deficit of the extensor compartment of the left forearm during and after prolonged playing. this was associated with paraesthesiae and pain. relief was achieved keeping the wrist and the elbow flexed, with the supinated forearm held by the contralateral hand. an anatomical study showed changes of the relationship of the posterior interosseous nerve with its surrounding structures with pronation and supination of the forearm. on the basis of the clinical features, the anatomical studies and the response to a simple physiotherapeutic regime, it is suggested that prolonged pronation of the forearm may cause transient entrapment of the nerve.
malignant mixed tumor (malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma) of the maxilla. we present a rare case of carcinosarcoma (malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma) of the left maxilla that developed in a 63-year-old japanese man. the tumor recurred repeatedly despite multiple surgical removals, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy and led to progressive cachexia; the patient died after 3.8 years of hospitalization. histopathologic examination revealed that the recurrent tumor was carcinosarcoma, which had progressed from malignant ameloblastoma with fibroma. an autopsy confirmed the diagnosis of malignant mixed tumor with lung metastasis of malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma.
stroke in pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. in a 4 1/2-year period, 4 of 68 children in a longitudinal study of neurological complications of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection had clinical and/or neuroradiological evidence of stroke, yielding a clinical incidence of stroke in this population of 1.3% per year. during this period, 32 subjects died, and permission for autopsy was granted in 18 of the patients, including 3 of 4 who had clinical evidence of stroke. the prevalence of cerebrovascular pathological features in our consecutive autopsy series was higher than the clinical incidence. at autopsy cerebrovascular disease was documented in 6 (24%) of 25 children with hiv infection, including all 3 children who had clinical evidence of stroke. four patients had intracerebral hemorrhages, 6 patients had nonhemorrhagic infarcts, and 3 had both. hemorrhage was catastrophic in 1 child and clinically silent in 3 children, all of whom had immune thrombocytopenia. one child had an arteriopathy that affected meningocerebral arteries. in another child, the arteries of the circle of willis were aneurysmally dilated. two children had coexisting cardiomyopathy and subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy with vascular proliferation. these results suggest that stroke should be considered when children with hiv infection develop focal neurological signs.
interleukin-2 does not attenuate hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. it was recently reported that interleukin-2, when administered as a single bolus injection (5,000 units/kg), could prevent the development of hypertension in young spontaneously hypertensive rats and lower blood pressure to normotensive levels in spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension. consequently, efforts were made to duplicate this finding. male spontaneously hypertensive rats (35 days old) were injected subcutaneously with 50,000 units/kg (3,500 units/rat) of recombinant interleukin-2 (amgen) and had systolic blood pressure measured twice weekly by the tail-cuff technique. systolic blood pressure in the interleukin-2-treated group was not significantly different from the vehicle-treated control group at any time point over 32 days of follow-up. a second injection of recombinant interleukin-2 (5,000 units/kg) was administered 32 days after the first injection. again, no reduction in blood pressure was observed in the interleukin-2-treated group over an additional 38 days. mean arterial pressure (+/- sem) measured via intra-arterial cannula in conscious rats at age 105 days (38 days after the second treatment) was 168.5 +/- 3.5 mm hg in interleukin-2-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats and 170.3 +/- 3.6 mm hg in vehicle-treated controls. both recombinant interleukin-2 preparations conformed to their respective manufacturer's indicated specific activity as determined by the ability of the interleukin-2 to induce proliferation of the interleukin-2-dependent cell line ht-2. thus, this study demonstrated that interleukin-2 was ineffective in preventing or attenuating hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
immune complexes in the choroid plexus in liver cirrhosis. a histopathologic and immunofluorescence study of the choroid plexus was performed in 12 cases of liver cirrhosis (cirrhosis group) and in 20 patients who died of diseases with no evidence of liver or brain involvement, and in which renal disease and alcoholism were also excluded (control group). iga, igg, igm, c3, and c1q were investigated by direct immunofluorescence technique. positive immunofluorescence in the choroid plexus was found in 83.33% of the cirrhosis group. iga and igg were the immunoglobulins more frequently found. c3 was also commonly found. histologic examination of the choroid plexus showed changes in 66.67% of the cirrhosis group characterized, mainly, by subepithelial deposition of a homogeneous, acidophilic, and periodic acid-schiff-positive substance, with thickening of the epithelial basement membrane. in the control group, the immunofluorescence in the choroid plexus was negative in all cases and only two cases (10%) presented histopathologic changes of the choroid plexus with a pattern similar to that of the cirrhosis group.
brush cytology in the diagnosis of colonic neoplasms. during a three-year period (1986-1988), 234 colonic brush specimens were received in the authors' laboratory. nine samples (4%) were deemed unsatisfactory for evaluation because of inadequate cellularity and/or poor fixation. in 11 cases concomitant or follow-up histologic specimens were not available. the remaining 214 specimens included 82 malignant neoplasms, 88 neoplastic polyps (adenomas), and 44 nonneoplastic lesions. sixty-seven (82%) of malignant neoplasms were correctly diagnosed by brush cytology. three cases of adenoma with severe dysplasia or in situ carcinoma were diagnosed as adenocarcinoma by cytology. no false-positive diagnoses were made of nonneoplastic lesions. brush cytology was found to be a more sensitive technique in the diagnosis of colon cancer than endoscopic biopsy (82% and 74% sensitivity, respectively). the combination of the two techniques increased the sensitivity to 90% and improved the overall accuracy of the test. seventy-one (82%) of the colonic adenomas were correctly diagnosed by cytology. brush cytology is a convenient, safe, and accurate technique which should be used concurrently with endoscopic biopsy or polypectomy.
expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (cd54) on hematopoietic progenitors. the distribution of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1), a ligand for lymphocyte function antigen-1, on hematopoietic tissue was determined using the anti-icam-1 monoclonal antibody cl203.4 with flow cytometry and short-term semi-solid hematopoietic progenitor cultures. after timed incubation in media with fetal bovine serum, 29% of erythroid burst-forming units (bfu-e), 24% of erythroid colony-forming units (cfu-e), and 52% of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units (cfu-gm) bone marrow progenitors expressed icam-1. this finding, which is consistent with the detection of icam-1 on acute non-lymphoblastic leukemic blasts, is at variance with recent reports. icam-1 was also detected on bone marrow blasts, proerythroblasts, promyelocytes, and cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage, but was not detected on erythroblasts, normoblasts, neutrophilic myelocytes, metamyelocytes, bands, or on most lymphocytes. these results indicate that maturation of cells of the erythroid and myeloid lineage is associated with loss of icam-1. the distribution of icam-1 on bone marrow progenitors, early precursor cells, and accessory cells in conjunction with the function of this molecule in cell-cell interactions suggests that icam-1 may play a role in the cell-cell and cell-stromal interactions that regulate hematopoiesis.
characterization and histopathological correlation of cytosol proteins of benign and malignant breast tumors. significant differences in cytosol protein level exist between normal/benign and cancerous breast tissues. there is a positive correlation between the cytosol protein level and histological grade of carcinoma. well-differentiated carcinoma have a lower value of cytosol protein than poorly differentiated carcinoma. in slab gel electrophoregrams, the total numbers of bands are almost identical in normal, benign, and malignant conditions. in addition, 37 kd protein band is consistently present in malignant cases and always absent in normal or benign cases. more extensive biophysical examination of this band may provide further insight into the protein alterations in cancer cells at the molecular level.
effective endothelialization of polyurethane surfaces. response to shear stress and platelet adhesion. biomer and mitrathane are thromboresistant polyurethane ureas that are suitable for coating artificial valves. degeneration of the surface coatings, however, does occur over time, and in experimental animal studies adherent thrombi have been observed as a complication. in this study, morphometric techniques applied to scanning electron microscopy were used to assess whether vascular endothelial cells harvested from jugular veins of fetal lambs could be grown to confluence on these polyurethane surfaces, whether the monolayer would remain intact under conditions of shear stress (104 dynes/cm2), and whether this would result in decreased platelet adherence of sheep platelets relative to nonendothelialized surfaces. the results have shown that both biomer and mitrathane could be endothelialized: 88.8 +/- 5.1% of the biomer surface consisted of intact confluent endothelial cells, as did 95.45 +/- 1.7% of the mitrathane surface. after 6 hr of shear stress, a significant reduction in this feature was observed (p = 0.02), but both materials still maintained a high percentage of confluent endothelial cells (78.65% for biomer and 85.58% for mitrathane). after 48 hr of shear stress, however, the percent confluence was similar to control values, which suggested new cell growth. endothelialized biomer compared with mitrathane had fewer adherent single platelets, or small or large aggregates (p = 0.001, p = 0.01, and p = 0.05, respectively); this feature was not affected by shear stress. whereas endothelialization of the surface clearly decreased platelet adherence on mitrathane (p = 0.01), only a trend was seen with biomer. these studies therefore show that endothelialization of these polyurethane surfaces is feasible.
spontaneous pneumothorax in aids patients with recurrent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis. aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) may predispose these patients to recurrent apical pneumocystis infection. bullous changes and pulmonary cysts develop in the lung apices due to repeated episodes of inflammation and cytotoxic effects of hiv on pulmonary macrophages. these changes progress despite prophylaxis against recurrent pneumocystis infection with aerosolized pentamidine, increasing the risk of spontaneous pneumothorax. two cases are presented of bilateral pneumothoraces in patients with aids and recurrent p carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis. patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis pneumonia appear to have an increased risk of pneumothorax due to recurrent apical infections with p carinii.
endoscopic placement of a foley catheter across a stricture and rectovaginal fistula to perform a barium enema. evaluation of enteric fistulas is often best performed with barium contrast studies. clinical situations that preclude the satisfactory installation of barium decrease the yield of the study. a case is presented of a 59-yr-old female with stage iii-b cervical carcinoma and a known rectovaginal fistula with an adjacent sigmoid colon stricture. an additional more proximal, enteric fistula was suspected. definitive preoperative knowledge of the existence or absence of this fistula would have shortened the duration of a planned palliative intervention. the rectovaginal fistula and stricture precluded adequate barium and air installation for contrast study. colonoscopy was unsuccessful. we have developed a combined technique in which the endoscopic placement of a semirigid guidewire allowed placement of a foley catheter across the fistula and stricture. successful barium study was performed. intraoperative time and hospital stay were shortened.
differential diagnosis of sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the common hepatic duct (klatskin tumors). although it is recognized that some other lesion may be the cause, a presumptive diagnosis of klatskin tumor is usually made when a focal stenotic lesion of the common hepatic duct is seen on a cholangiogram of a jaundiced patient. biopsy is so often nondiagnostic that decisions about therapy are usually made on the basis of the imaging tests and lack of evidence for some other disease. because the accuracy and consequences of this strategy have never been tested, we contrasted the preoperative diagnosis of klatskin tumor with the final diagnosis in 98 consecutive patients treated from 1985 to 1990. preoperative investigations included ultrasound and computed tomographic scans, percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and angiography. sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the bile duct were correctly diagnosed in 68 cases. the final diagnosis was other than a sclerosing adenocarcinoma in 30 (31%) cases. there were 5 papillary bile duct carcinomas, 12 gallbladder carcinomas invading the bile duct, 5 metastatic tumors to the bile duct, 2 cases of mirizzi syndrome, 3 granulomas, and 3 cases of idiopathic benign focal stenosis. patients with papillary adenocarcinomas had an extensive filling defect of the duct, which was often thought to be unresectable. however, four of these five lesions could be completely excised, and the tumor was confined to the duct wall in all four. the outcome of surgical treatment of the other eight patients with benign lesions was good in most cases. these findings demonstrate the pitfalls of assuming that a focal stenosis of the hepatic duct represents a sclerosing adenocarcinoma. the diagnosis is much less specific than is generally thought, so there is considerable opportunity for mismanaging such patients.
comparison of ambulatory left ventricular ejection fraction and blood pressure in systemic hypertension in patients with and without increased left ventricular mass. to evaluate the effects of long-standing systemic hypertension on left ventricular (lv) function during daily activities, ambulatory radionuclide monitoring of lv ejection fraction (ef) and blood pressure was performed during exercise and other structured activities in 31 hypertensive patients. patients were divided into 3 groups based on the absence of lv hypertrophy (group 1 [n = 16], lv mass 107 +/- 12 g/m2), presence of lv hypertrophy without electrocardiographic changes (group 2 [n = 10], lv mass 141 +/- 8 g/m2) and lv hypertrophy with associated electrocardiographic changes (group 3 [n = 5], lv mass 158 +/- 9 g/m2). the groups were similar with respect to age, baseline medication, treated and untreated blood pressure, resting ef and treadmill exercise time. patients in group 3 had the longest history of hypertension. peak filling rate was normal in group 1 (2.9 +/- 0.4 end-diastolic volume/s), but reduced at rest in groups 2 (2.4 +/- 0.4) and 3 (2.1 +/- 0.3). patients in group 1 had normal ef responses to exercise and mental stress testing, as well as during routine ambulatory activities. patients in group 2 had a blunted ef response to exercise, and those in group 3 had a significantly abnormal response. both group 2 and 3 patients demonstrated abnormal ef responses to mental stress, as well as cold pressor testing in association with significant increases in mean arterial pressure and marked reduction in diastolic filling rate. decreases in ef were also observed during routine patient monitoring in 3 group 3 patients and 4 group 2 patients. these events were associated with significantly increased blood pressure.
paraplegia after a routine lumbar laminectomy: report of a rare complication and successful management. arachnoid cysts of the spinal canal are relatively common lesions that may be either intra- or extradural. these cysts are usually asymptomatic but may produce symptoms by compressing the spinal cord or nerve roots. we report a case in which an intradural thoracic arachnoid cyst became symptomatic after a routine decompressive lumbar laminectomy for spinal stenosis. myelography revealed no abnormality, although magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography demonstrated a mass within the posterior aspect of the thoracic spinal canal associated with anterior displacement and compression of the spinal cord. a change in the flow dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid probably allowed the development of spinal cord compression due to one of the following: expansion of the cyst, decreased cerebrospinal fluid buffer between the cord and the cyst, or epidural venous engorgement. a concomitant and more cephalad lesion such as an arachnoid cyst should be considered when myelopathic complications arise after lumbar surgery. magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography are useful to demonstrate the additional pathological processes.
methodological problems in evaluation of cardiovascular effects of stress in humans. cardiovascular effects of stress in humans are often assessed by application of physical or emotional stimuli in a laboratory environment. although this method provides important information, these procedures have several limitations. first, blood pressure and heart rate responses to laboratory stressors are characterized by a limited within-subject reproducibility. second, there is poor correlation between blood pressure and heart rate responses to different stressors, which implies that individual reaction to stress may be estimated differently according to the test used. finally, these responses bear only a limited relation to 24-hour or daytime blood pressure variability, that is, they reflect to only a limited extent the tendency of blood pressure to vary during daily activities. if assessed by techniques that allow blood pressure to be continuously recorded for 24 hours in ambulatory subjects, blood pressure variability represents a possible approach to observation of cardiovascular reactivity away from an artificial laboratory environment. however, whether blood pressure variability should be expressed as a percentage or in absolute values is controversial. furthermore, although naturally occurring stress may markedly increase blood pressure, 24-hour blood pressure variations also depend on factors that are not related to emotional stimuli. thus, the study of cardiovascular responses to stress in humans encounters several problems, regardless of the method used.
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients; 18 (60%) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 (33%) had multiple pulmonary symptoms. in 14 patients (47%), abnormalities were found on examination of the chest. in 16 chest roentgenograms (53%), there was at least 1 abnormality: right-sided pleural effusion (9 patients) and elevated right hemidiaphragm (8 patients) were the most common. all patients were treated with metronidazole (flagyl) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease. pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess. the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis. pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess.
penile implants in the treatment of peyronie's disease. the treatment of peyronie's disease remains controversial. patients who fail conservative therapy may require surgical intervention to restore the ability to have sexual intercourse. plaque excision and dermal grafting have not been universally successful, and alternate procedures that rely on the placement of a penile prosthesis have gained in popularity. we reviewed our experience with 35 patients with advanced peyronie's disease treated with a penile prosthesis. preoperatively, 55% of the patients were unable to engage in intercourse due to pain or angulation of the penis and 25% were unable to achieve any erection at all. postoperatively, with a mean followup of 6.9 years, 88% of the patients were able to engage in intercourse and were satisfied with the results obtained. in selected patients with advanced disease the implantation of a penile prosthesis remains a highly successful and satisfying alternative for the treatment of peyronie's disease.
long-term amiodarone administration protects against global myocardial ischemia. reports on the effects of amiodarone on cardiac function have been variable. this study addresses the effect of long-term amiodarone administration on recovery of cardiac function after a period of global ischemia. normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats were used. normotensive rats (n = 6) received 240 mg/kg amiodarone for 4 weeks, for a total of 72 +/- 3 mg. hypertensive rats (n = 6) received 500 mg/kg amiodarone for 4 weeks, for a total of 116 +/- 5 mg. final myocardial concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone were 1.85 +/- 1.75 and 0.50 +/- 0.61 micrograms/g wet weight for the normotensive rats and 1.30 +/- 0.58 and 0.31 +/- 0.17 micrograms/g for the hypertensive rats (p = nonsignificant). equal numbers of controls received sterile saline solution for 4 weeks. the hearts were excised and perfused in a langendorff apparatus. the results indicate that, after 15 minutes of normothermic ischemia, hearts treated with this relatively low dose of amiodarone recovered a greater percentage of preischemic work (97% +/- 13%) as compared with the controls (76% +/- 17%) (p less than 0.005).
mic2 is a specific marker for ewing's sarcoma and peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors. evidence for a common histogenesis of ewing's sarcoma and peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors from mic2 expression and specific chromosome aberration. this study reports on the specific expression of the mic2 gene, a pseudoautosomal gene located on the short arms of the x and y chromosomes, on ewing's sarcoma (es) and peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (ppnet) cells. the gene product, a cell membrane protein, is recognized by the newly established monoclonal antibody (moab) hba-71 and the previously described moab 12e7 and rfb-1. furthermore, the reaction pattern of the mic2 antibodies, especially hba-71, with normal tissues and a great number of benign and malignant tumors (70 different tumors, 199 tumor samples), as well as the correlation between the specific chromosomal aberrations, i.e., the t(11;22) and the del(22) and the expression of this antigen, are demonstrated. both es and ppnet cells express the mic2 gene in very high amounts, which represents a highly selective and almost unique feature of these cells, making an assignment of these tumors in one entity even more likely. the mic2 antibodies are of great value for clinical and research purposes.
mammography and age: are we targeting the wrong women? a community survey of women and physicians. to determine mammography use among women with a broad range of ages, the authors surveyed women aged 30 to 74 years and physicians practicing primary care in two eastern north carolina counties. twenty-five percent of women in their 30s had ever had a mammogram, and 34% intended to have one in the coming year. from 45% to 52% of women in their 40s, 50s, and 60s had ever had a mammogram, and 55% to 57% intended to have one in the next year. thirty-seven percent of women aged 70 to 74 years had ever had a mammogram, and 40% intended to have one in the following year. nineteen percent of physicians reported screening nearly all women aged 30 to 39 years, and 14% screened few women aged 50 to 74 years. younger women were more worried about breast cancer than older women and assessed their risk as higher, attitudes that were generally associated with higher mammography utilization. these community surveys suggest that mammography use may be excessive among younger women; older women continue to be underscreened.
subpleural mononuclear cell infiltration. significance in the differential diagnosis of pleuritis showing nonspecific histologic findings. to determine if patients who had lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion and a pleural biopsy without any specific findings could be histopathologically differentiated between those with tuberculous and nontuberculous pleuritis, we histologically re-evaluated the pleural biopsies of all patients whose pleural effusion was predominant with lymphocytes and contained no malignant cells. a total of 40 patients with a nonspecific histologic findings of pleural biopsy specimen were categorized based on their ultimate diagnosis as having tuberculous (n = 15), carcinomatous (n = 10) or nontuberculous, benign pleuritis (n = 15). the pleural biopsy specimen of patients with nontuberculous, benign pleuritis frequently showed a band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate (10 out of 15 patients), while the same finding was infrequent in those with tuberculous pleuritis (0 out of 15, p = 0.0001) and pleuritis associated with carcinoma (three out of 10, p = 0.082). based on these results, the presence of band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate in pleural biopsy specimens of patients with lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion suggests that the pleuritis is nontuberculous in its nature.
lung lobe torsion following lobectomy. three cases of postoperative pulmonary lobe torsion were reported. two of three showed hemorrhagic infarctions, and as a result underwent rethoracotomies and removal of the affected lobes. from these experiences, we consider that computed tomography (ct) and bronchofiberscopic examinations are useful for the diagnosis of advanced torsion.
lymphocytic hypophysitis with involvement of the cavernous sinus and hypothalamus. two cases of lymphocytic hypophysitis are reported, in which hypothalamic involvement causing diabetes insipidus was a prominent clinical feature. in one case, a man had clinical and radiological evidence of the involvement of the cavernous sinus. this represents the second reported case of a man with lymphocytic hypophysitis. a transsphenoidal biopsy established the diagnosis in both cases. neither the involvement of the cavernous sinus nor permanent diabetes insipidus has been reported previously. a review of the literature is provided.
headaches and multiple sclerosis: a clinical study and review of the literature. whether multiple sclerosis (ms) can cause headaches is controversial. to clarify the association between headaches and ms we prospectively analyzed 104 consecutive ms patients using detailed headache evaluations. fifty-four patients (52%) reported headaches, compared with 5 of 35 (14%) patients initially suspected to have ms but subsequently proven to have other disorders, and 18 of 100 (18%) matched general neurology patients. the ms patients had tension headaches or vascular headaches of the migraine type; there was no distinctive "ms headache." seven of these patients had headaches with their first ms symptoms, but in only one did headaches recur with disease activity. headaches did not correlate with any clinical features of ms. we conclude that an association between headaches and ms may exist.
therapy for women hospitalized with acute pyelonephritis: a randomized trial of ampicillin versus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 14 days. the efficacy of the traditionally recommended ampicillin (amp) plus gentamicin (gm) regimen was compared with that of a trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (tmp/smz)-plus-gm regimen and the adequacy of 14 days total therapy for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis (aupn). eighty-five women hospitalized for aupn were randomly assigned to receive either amp, 1 g intravenously (iv) every 6 h for 3 days, then 500 mg orally four times daily, or tmp/smz, 160/800 mg iv every 12 h for 3 days, then 160/800 mg orally twice daily. initially, all patients also received gm every 8 h iv (mean, 606 doses). antimicrobial resistance necessitated modifying therapy of 14 (32%) of the amp recipients but of none of the tmp/smz recipients (p less than .001). both regimens produced a satisfactory bacteriologic and clinical response in all cases. reinfection occurred in 11% of amp and in 8% of tmp/smz recipients. no patient experienced relapsing infection. the tmp/smz regimen was less costly and less likely to require modification due to antimicrobial resistance.
edgar j poth lecture. pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of thrombosis. thrombosis and its major sequela, embolism, continue to contribute significantly to morbidity and mortality, both as primary disorders and as complications of other systemic systems. the understanding of the etiology of thromboembolism and the role of platelets, endothelium, and the plasma proteins in the development of thrombotic disorders has recently improved. other blood cells, in particular neutrophils, have been suggested as possible mediators of thrombosis in clinical disorders characterized by decreased capillary blood flow. newer imaging techniques such as duplex scanning have improved the accuracy and ease of diagnosis. thrombolytic therapy is a more physiologic approach to the management of thrombosis, but its role is limited by systemic fibrinolysis. the development of fibrin-specific agents and better delivery techniques in combination with thromboembolectomy and anticoagulation should improve the management of patients with thrombosis.
a phase ii multi-institutional trial of low-dose n-(phosphonacetyl)-l-aspartate and high-dose 5-fluorouracil as a short-term infusion in the treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. a southwest oncology group study. adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is a highly lethal malignancy and chemotherapy has had little impact on the natural history of this disease. pala, used to potentiate 5-fluorouracil (5-fu), has been shown to have synergy in vivo and in vitro. twenty-seven patients were treated with an intravenous push dose of pala (250 mg/m2) followed 24 hours later with a 24-hour infusion of 5-fu (2600 mg/m2). this regimen was repeated weekly. there was one partial response of 21 eligible patients with an estimated response rate of 5%. toxicity was severe with one toxic death and four patients experiencing grade 4 toxicity. 5-fluorouracil and pala, given in the schedule described, do not appear to be effective against adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy. two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare, transient visual symptoms, and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered. both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision, ring scotomas, and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber. electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses. antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum. their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents. the triad of photosensitivity, ring scotomatous visual field loss, and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina.
failure of surgery to improve outcome in hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage. a prospective randomized trial. hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage remains a major cause of hemorrhagic stroke carrying extremely high morbidity. considerable controversy remains regarding the optimal form of therapy. between 1983 and 1989 we conducted a prospective randomized trial with three treatment strategies: best medical management, best medical management plus intracranial pressure monitoring, and surgical evacuation. only patients with significant deficit harboring a putaminal hematoma at least 3.0 cm in diameter were entered. the study was interrupted after 21 patients had been studied (9, best medical management; 4, intracranial pressure monitoring; and 8, surgical evacuation). no differences were found among groups for age, admission blood pressure, and time interval between onset of symptoms and arrival at hospital. none of the subjects were capable of returning to prestroke activity. fifteen (71%) died or remained vegetative at 6 months, and only 4 (19%) were capable of independent life at home. of the 9 patients in the best medical management arm, 7 were dead or vegetative. in the surgical group, 4 patients died and only 2 were capable of independent life. these results suggest that current medical and neurosurgical therapies remain ineffective in preventing the devastating neurologic consequences of hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage.
vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion. the condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central retinal vein occlusion (crvo). using a life-table analysis, it was studied in 56 eyes. the incidence of posterior vitreous detachment (pvd) in the crvo eyes at the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 age-matched control eyes. however, the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes increased from 39.3% at the first vitreous examination to 58.5% after 6 months, and to 69.6% 1 year from the examination. the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes during follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls (p = .009). the incidence of pvd after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy (p = .04). in the 34 eyes with macular edema, the edema lasted significantly longer in those with vitreomacular attachment (vma) at the first examination than in those without vma at this time (p = .02). vma may play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in crvo.
use of computed tomographic scanning and aortography in the diagnosis of acute dissection of the thoracic aorta. before the introduction of computed tomographic (ct) scanning, aortography was the investigation of choice for acute aortic dissection. between 1978 and 1982, 24 patients were referred to the brompton hospital with suspected acute thoracic aortic dissection; all had aortography with diagnosis confirmed at surgery (n = 12) or necropsy (n = 2) or supported by clinical outcome (n = 8). one patient in whom aortography was negative had type b dissection at necropsy and another patient was lost to follow up. ct scanning became available in this unit in 1983 and between 1983 and 1987 was used as the only imaging investigation in 32 patients with suspected acute dissection of the thoracic aorta while in a further 22 patients aortography was used alone. results were confirmed at surgery (n = 18), necropsy (n = 3), or supported by clinical outcome (n = 31). two patients were lost to follow up. in an additional 16 patients both aortography and ct scanning were performed with concordant findings in 10. in six in whom the results were discordant, aortography was normal in three in whom subsequent ct scanning showed type b dissection and ct scanning was normal in three patients in whom aortography showed type a dissection. both ct scanning and aortography are reliable techniques for assessment of suspected acute dissection of the thoracic aorta. both techniques misdiagnose occasionally and the frequency of misdiagnosis will be minimised by performing both investigations in patients where the level of clinical suspicion is high and the initial investigation negative. ct scanning tends to miss type a dissection and in view of the success of surgery in this condition this failing has the more serious clinical consequences.
stroke after heavy marijuana smoking. i examined two young men who developed cerebral infarction associated with heavy marijuana smoking. both were light tobacco smokers, but they did not drink alcohol or use other street drugs. diagnostic work-up for nonatherosclerotic causes of stroke was unremarkable. i postulate that marijuana-associated alterations in systemic blood pressure resulted in vasospasm, leading to strokes in these patients.
signs, complications, and platelet aggregation in familial exudative vitreoretinopathy. between 1979 and 1989, i examined 106 patients (16 pedigrees) with signs of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy. of these patients, 101 had familial exudative vitreoretinopathy, and five had a sporadic manifestation. the complications of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy, deformation of the posterior retina, vitreous hemorrhage, amblyopia, and retinal detachment, caused diminished visual acuity. of 170 eyes, retinal neovascularization was observed in 18 eyes (11%), and retinal exudates were observed in 16 eyes (9%). several forms of retinal detachment occurred in 37 of 180 eyes (21%), which often took an unfavorable course. a falciform retinal fold was observed in 14 eyes (8%). retinal surgery was performed in 14 eyes; reattachment of the retina was successful in only seven eyes. platelet aggregation studies disclosed no significant differences between seven patients with familial exudative vitreoretinopathy and ten control subjects. the pathogenesis of the disease is based on a premature arrest of the vascular development of the retina.
patient-controlled analgesic administration. a comparison of steady-state morphine infusions with bolus doses. the authors have shown previously that bone marrow transplant (bmt) patients who self-administered bolus doses of morphine gained equal oral mucositis pain relief while using less drug compared with similar patients receiving morphine by staff-controlled continuous infusion. in a follow-up study they compared the efficacy and side effects of morphine in two groups of marrow transplant patients who controlled their own analgesic administration either by conventional bolus-dose, patient-controlled analgesia (pca) or by adjusting the rate of continuous morphine infusion to increase or decrease their plasma morphine concentration. patients controlling their morphine infusion rates (pharmacokinetically based patient-controlled analgesia [pkpca] group) obtained more relief from oral mucositis pain than did patients using conventional pca. patients in the pkpca group used more morphine than pca patients and achieved superior pain relief without significant increases in side effects (e.g., nausea, mood changes, sedation). the authors conclude that pkpca improves the management of prolonged, severe pain in marrow transplant patients and that this approach to patient-controlled analgesia may be useful in other types of persistent pain.
prospective, randomized trial of palliative treatment for unresectable cancer of the esophagus. to evaluate the best method of palliation for obstructing nonresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the mid or distal esophagus, 27 patients were prospectively randomized to one of three treatment arms: (1) esophageal intubation with an atkinson tube (at, 10 patients), (2) esophageal intubation followed by radiation therapy (at/rt, 8 patients), and (3) endoscopic laser therapy followed by irradiation (l/rt, 9 patients). pretreatment characteristics were similar in the three groups. there was no procedure-related mortality. there were eight total complications related to the tube and none related to laser treatment (p = 0.02). mean survival was 119 days in the at group, 72 days in the at/rt group, and 169 days in the l/rt arm (p = not significant). quality of survival was most dependent on swallowing ability, and the swallowing score increased by 2.3 units in the at group, 1.8 units in the at/rt group, and 1.4 units in the l/rt group (p = not significant). adding rt to laser therapy significantly increased time in treatment (mean, 38.7 days) when compared with the at group (mean, 12.5 days) (p less than 0.001). however, only 1 patient required repeat laser ablation. it is concluded that at and l/rt result in good palliation as measured by relief of dysphagia and survival time. however, morbidity of at is significantly greater than that of l/rt. laser and radiation therapy with a reduced total dosage of rt or with a change in fractionation schedule to limit treatment time is the preferred method of palliation.
spinal cord injuries. clinical, functional, and emotional status. ninety-eight patients with traumatic spinal cord injury, at a median age of 33.5 years (range, 16-72 years), with nonremarkable distributions of neurologic characteristics were investigated at a median of 2.3 years (range, 0.1-23 years) after injury. functioning, mood disturbances, and overall quality of life were recorded with established self-assessment instruments. physical dysfunction levels were moderate, being proportionate to neurologic impairment. psychosocial functions, mood states, and quality-of-life perceptions did not differ from those of a control population sample. psychosocial function and mood disturbances varied greatly during the first 4 years after injury, but patients' later recordings expressed predominantly a balanced emotional state and a rewarding social life. progress in this direction consisted of clearly lessened physical dysfunction 1 year after injury and better psychosocial function and well-being after 2 years, whereas patterns of social activities and contacts became gradually less inhibited during a 4-year period after injury. analysis of complications in patients' histories that affected function and mood showed severe pain to be the only complication that related to lower quality-of-life scores. urinary incontinence and infection and autonomous dysreflexia related to inhibited self-care performance; spasticity related to impaired ambulation and feeding skills. gainful employment was the only demographic factor linked to high quality-of-life scores.
hyperandrogenism in peripubertal girls. androgens arise from either adrenal or ovarian secretion or by peripheral conversion of secreted precursors. the adrenals and ovaries normally contribute about equally to testosterone and ad production. dhas is the major adrenal 17-ks. testosterone is the major circulating form of androgen. more than 96% of plasma testosterone is bound to shbg; the free testosterone seems to be the bioavailable fraction. hyperandrogenism must be considered in any girl with premature or excessive development of public hair or acne, menstrual irregularity (whether it be oligo-amenorrhea or dysfunctional uterine bleeding), or obesity. the most common cause of premature public hair development (pubarche) is premature adrenarche. the most common cause of hyperandrogenism presenting in a teenage girl is polycystic ovary syndrome. however, the differential diagnosis includes "exaggerated adrenarche," late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia, virilizing tumors, cushing's syndrome, hyperprolactinemia, acromegaly, and abnormalities of androgen action or of metabolism. the plasma free testosterone is a more sensitive indicator of hyperandrogenism than is the total testosterone concentration. the pattern of response of plasma free testosterone, dhas, and cortisol to dex-suppression testing is diagnostic of the source of androgen excess. most hyperandrogenic adolescents will be found to have pcos. the treatment is chosen according to particular symptoms, such as menstrual irregularity, hirsutism, or obesity.
the renin-angiotensin system and renal function in kidney transplantation. the use of converting enzyme inhibitors (cei) has permitted us to assess the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of arterial pressure and renal function in various conditions. in renal transplant recipients treated by azathioprine and steroids, the occurrence of cei-induced deterioration of renal function is highly suggestive of renal artery stenosis, whereas renal vasodilatation associated with unchanged glomerular filtration rate in response to cei is indicative of a significant role of native kidneys. in hypertensive recipients without renal artery stenosis, the absence of renal hemodynamic changes after cei may be predictive of subsequent chronic rejection. the information provided by cei is rather different in cyclosporine treated subjects. in this setting, no acute effect of cei on renal hemodynamics is detectable. whether the renal response to cei is similar in cyclosporine when compared to conventionally treated patients with renal artery stenosis remains to be demonstrated.
arterial protection: a neglected but crucial therapeutic goal. hypertension is accompanied by 2 major types of arterial pathologic conditions: smooth muscle hypertrophy of arteriolar resistance vessels and atherosclerosis, primarily involving the larger arteries. smooth muscle hypertrophy may develop either as a secondary defense against elevated intravascular pressure or as a primary defect responsible for the increased pressure. insulin and a number of other trophic stimuli may play a pathogenetic role in vascular hypertrophy. reducing blood pressure and trophic stimuli may cause hypertrophy to be reversed. because atherosclerosis may be markedly accelerated by hypertension, especially in the presence of concomitant risk factors, such as hypercholesterolemia, cigarette smoking and diabetes mellitus, antihypertensive treatment may attenuate or even reverse the extent of atherosclerosis, but only when the causative factors are also corrected. some commonly used antihypertensive agents, e.g., diuretics and beta blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, often aggravate hypercholesterolemia and glucose intolerance, thereby diminishing their potential protective value. other types of drug therapy, such as alpha blockers, beta blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity or other vasodilator activity, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium entry blockers that may not induce biochemical changes, should provide better control of multiple risks and thereby better protection against atherosclerosis. with a better understanding of how hypertension induces arterial damage, clinicians will be able to provide more appropriate treatment and, it is hoped, alleviate such damage.
attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias. effect of midazolam and vecuronium. we studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone, n2o, isoflurane anaesthesia. four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline (group 1), tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg (group 2), vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg (group 3), or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg (group 4), followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg. group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant (no suxamethonium). fasciculations were graded, and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days. in groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95, 15, 25, 95 and 0%; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70, 45, 65, 75 and 60%, and on the third day after operation 20, 5, 20, 20, and 5%, respectively. we conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium, but not midazolam, decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium (p less than 0.05) and that in this patient population, postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium.
new surgical approach to complicated gastroesophageal reflux disease: transthoracic parietal cell vagotomy. surgical treatment of peptic stricture of the esophagus associated with columnar (barrett) metaplasia can be a difficult problem. collis-nissen fundoplication restores an intraabdominal antireflux barrier for most cases of peptic stricture; however, 20% of patients may have persistence of pathological acid reflux. by reducing acidity of postoperative reflux, parietal cell vagotomy may complement nonresectional surgical results for barrett stricture.
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia. although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia, esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition. we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy, presumably related to barrett's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease.
fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection. tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis (psa). fifteen of 51 (29%) patients with hiv infection met criteria for fibromyalgia, based on the presence of 10 tender (of 14) "fibrositic" points. similar results were observed among patients with psa (24%). the prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with ra (57%). patients with hiv and psa were less tender than patients with ra. fibromyalgia in patients with hiv was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia, but not with age, duration of hiv infection, stage of hiv disease, or zidovudine therapy.
perforin-mediated myocardial damage in acute myocarditis. endomyocardial specimens were obtained from 7 patients with acute myocarditis. immunohistochemical examination of the mononuclear infiltrate showed mainly cytotoxic t lymphocytes and natural killer cells. perforin (a pore-forming protein found in cytotoxic lymphocytes) was identified in this myocardial lymphocytic infiltrate and electron microscopy showed myocardial cell damage that may have been associated with these perforin containing lymphocytes. the results indicate that in acute idiopathic and viral myocarditis, myocardial damage may be due to the action of perforin-secreting lymphocytes.
autologous transplantation of adrenal medulla in parkinson's disease. 18-month results. eighteen of 19 patients who underwent autologous adrenal medullary transplantation to the right caudate nucleus have been followed up for 18 months. during the course of this study, a statistically significant improvement was noted in percent "on" time, percent "on" time without dyskinesia, activity of daily living (adl) scores during the "on" stages, and adl, motor, and schwab-england scores during the "off" stages. benefits tended to be maximal at 6 months and to gradually lessen thereafter, although statistically significant improvement in comparison with baseline was still present at 18 months for adl, motor, and hoehn-yahr scores during the "off" stages. almost all parameters had deteriorated by 18 months compared with 12 months, including those remaining significantly improved in comparison with baseline. these patterns were similar for each of the three participating centers. complications were largely restricted to the perioperative period.
nephropathy in model combining genetic hypertension with experimental diabetes. enalapril versus hydralazine and metoprolol therapy. we compared the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and a conventional antihypertensive regimen (hydralazine and metoprolol) on kidney function, albuminuria, and glomerular ultrastructure in hypertensive diabetic and nondiabetic rats. diabetes was induced with streptozocin at 8 wk of age in spontaneously hypertensive (shr) rats. antihypertensive drugs were administered in drinking water from the time of induction of diabetes in all groups. blood pressure reduction was equal in the diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats receiving either enalapril or hydralazine plus metoprolol. in diabetic shr rats, there was a rise in serum creatinine after 32 wk, which did not occur in diabetic rats treated with either antihypertensive regimen or in nondiabetic rats. both drug regimens reduced albuminuria in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats to a similar degree. enalapril and the combination of hydralazine and metoprolol were associated with decreased glomerular basement membrane thickness and glomerular volume in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats without significant effect on fractional mesangial volume. thus, antihypertensive therapy retards the development of albuminuria, glomerular basement membrane thickening, and glomerular hypertrophy in the rat in the presence or absence of diabetes. no specific benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition was observed in these hypertensive models of nephropathy. human studies comparing the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on kidney function, proteinuria, and glomerular morphology are warranted.
cor triatriatum dexter: antemortem diagnosis in an adult by cross sectional echocardiography. cor triatriatum dexter is a rare cardiac abnormality in which the right atrium is subdivided into two distinct chambers. this anomaly is generally attributed to the persistence of the right sinus venosus valve and it is frequently associated with severe malformations of other right heart structures. the antemortem diagnosis of the membrane may be difficult and its presence is often only established at necropsy. in a woman of 56 with ebstein's anomaly the echocardiographic features of cor triatriatum dexter were examined before and during cardiac catheterisation. these investigations showed the position of the membrane, that there was no gradient between the two atrial chambers, and that there were perforations in the centre of the membrane.
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for biliary stones. extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is a noninvasive technique for treatment of patients with gallbladder and bile duct stones. selected patients with gallbladder stones can be treated on an outpatient basis without general anesthesia and may return to full activity within 1 or 2 days. stone-free rates of 40% to 60% at 6 months have been achieved in most reported series with minimal morbidity. bile duct stone lithotripsy has achieved stone clearance in 80% of patients in whom conventional methods were unsuccessful and therefore constitutes a valuable second-line treatment for these patients.
speech, velopharyngeal function, and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery. articulation, voice, resonance, hearing sensitivity, and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after orthognathic surgery. thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery. errors on the sibilants /s/ and /z/ occurred most frequently, followed by those on /j,zh,ch/ and /sh/. errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components. after surgery, articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention. most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative, but, thereafter, a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months, errors occurred on /s/ and /z/. voice, resonance, velopharyngeal port area, and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery. this study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors.
the importance of the ghq in general practice. the relationship between general health questionnaire (ghq) score and complaints presented at the general practitioners office was examined, and showed that the correlation between them is not as high as might be expected. many patients who present psychosocial problems to their gp appear to have a low ghq score; many patients with a high ghq score exclusively present somatic complaints, which are also assessed by the gp as being purely somatic. implications of the results are discussed.
primary neoplasms of the central nervous system in children. modern diagnostic imaging techniques are able to detect primary neoplasms of the central nervous system (cns) in children safely and accurately but with less specificity as to cell type or degree of malignancy. these neoplasms, often peculiar in cell type and size, mediated by hydrocephalus in their clinical presentation, demand careful and often extensive imaging techniques best to evaluate their geography and character. added to these basic observations, determination of the neoplasm from surrounding edema, detection of possible spread, and evaluation of residual or recurrent neoplasm are prime responsibilities of the pediatric neuroradiologist toward the child, neurosurgeon, and oncologist.
hematoma of the optic nerve sheath after penetrating trauma. we have presented a case involving the diagnosis and management of optic nerve sheath hematoma. our patient's positive outcome demonstrates the usefulness of megadose steroid therapy for acute optic nerve injury.
coffee, caffeine, and cardiovascular disease in men background. for many years, an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected. although based on small numbers of end points, a prospective study has suggested a particularly strong association between recent coffee drinking and the incidence of cardiovascular disease. methods. we examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction, need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty, and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 u.s. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease. results. during two years of follow-up observation, 221 participants had a nonfatal myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease, 136 underwent coronary-artery surgery or angioplasty, and 54 had a stroke. total coffee consumption was not associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease or stroke. the age-adjusted relative risk for all cardiovascular disease among participants who drank four or more cups of coffee per day was 1.04 (95 percent confidence intervals, 0.74 to 1.46). increasing levels of consumption of caffeinated coffee were not associated with higher risks of cardiovascular disease. higher consumption of decaffeinated coffee, however, was associated with a marginally significant increase in the risk of coronary heart disease (relative risk, 1.63; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 2.60). finally, we observed no pattern of increased risk across the subgroups of participants with increasing intakes of caffeine from all sources. adjustment for major cardiovascular-risk indicators, dietary intake of fats, and cholesterol intake did not materially alter these associations. conclusions. these findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke.
effect on outcome of prolonged exposure of patients to nitrous oxide. prolonged (several days or repeated) exposure to nitrous oxide (n2o) can cause injury or death. to assess whether relatively prolonged anesthesia with n2o in normal patients might similarly cause untoward effects, we investigated whether the addition of n2o to isoflurane anesthesia caused injury to patients having surgical resection of acoustic neuroma lasting approximately 10 h. twenty-six patients undergoing surgical resection of acoustic neuroma were randomly assigned to a regimen that included or excluded n2o (50%-60%) during isoflurane anesthesia plus intravenous adjuvants. on average, slightly less isoflurane (0.24%) was used during anesthesia with n2o. we measured standard clinical variables (blood pressure, heart rate), oxygen saturation, neurologic status, pain, and the incidence and type of morbid outcomes. exposure to n2o did not increase the incidence of morbid outcomes (including hepatic injury, infection, or hypoxemia), prolong hospitalization, or increase common postoperative complaints such as nausea, vomiting, coughing, or headache. patients anesthetized with either regimen were equally satisfied with their anesthetic.
impact of the availability of a prior electrocardiogram on the triage of the patient with acute chest pain study objective: to determine whether information from a prior electrocardiogram (ecg) improves diagnostic accuracy in the emergency department (ed) evaluation of patients with acute chest pain. design: analysis of prospectively collected data from a cohort study. setting: emergency departments of four community and three university hospitals. patients: 5,673 patients aged greater than or equal to 30 years who presented to the eds of participating hospitals for evaluation of acute chest pain, including 772 (14%) with acute myocardial infarction (ami). measurements and main results: after adjusting for clinical characteristics, no significant difference was found in the sensitivities of admission to the hospital or to the coronary care unit (ccu) between ami patients with and without prior ecgs available for review. however, non-ami patients with prior ecgs available for review were more likely to avoid ccu admission than were non-ami patients without prior ecgs. this improvement in specificity was most marked in the 2,024 patients whose current ed ecgs had changes consistent with ischemia or infarction: when a prior ecg was available, non-ami patients were more than twice as likely to be discharged (26% vs. 12%) and about 1.5 times as likely to avoid ccu admission (39% vs. 27%) (both p less than 0.0001). admission rates of ami patients with and without prior ecgs were similar. conclusion: when the current ecg is consistent with ischemia or infarction, the availability of a prior ecg for comparison to determine whether the ecg changes are old or new improves diagnostic accuracy and triage decisions by reducing the admission of patients without ami or acute ischemic heart disease (increased specificity) without reducing the admission of patients with these diagnoses (unchanged sensitivity).
gaze-evoked visual seizures in nonketotic hyperglycemia. focal motor seizures are commonly a symptom of nonketotic hyperglycemia (nkh). posture-induced motor seizures are less common but have been reported in some patients with this disorder. we report the first case of gaze-evoked sensory (visual) seizures in nonketotic hyperglycemia. both seizures and ictal eeg findings disappeared shortly after hyperglycemia was corrected.
nausea, vomiting, and retching. although nausea, vomiting, and retching have plagued mankind since antiquity, limited attention has been given to the three symptoms as separate entities. although knowledge of symptom occurrence is essential to practice, nurses must focus on patients' response or distress to the occurrence of symptoms. the differentiation of symptom occurrence and symptom distress of nausea, vomiting, and retching is critical to the management and self-care demands of patients and the enhancement of their quality of life. basic research on patterns of these individual symptoms and their components promises to provide a more progressive and fruitful approach to the patient response to these symptoms.
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers. the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital. there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse, and in 41% of these, chronic alcoholism was implicated. deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11% of all cases. the mean age at death was 39 years. there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1. half of all patients died from infection--72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) alone. these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems. emphasis should be placed upon detecting "hidden" intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information.
hemodynamic and metabolic effects of dobutamine in 18 patients after open heart surgery. low cardiac output syndrome frequently follows cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) surgery. in the present study, we used dobutamine to increase cardiac index (ci) and oxygen delivery (do2) in 18 patients after open heart surgery. using increasing doses of dobutamine up to 10 micrograms/kg.min-1, we observed statistically significant (p less than .01) increases in mean ci (2.50 +/- 0.10 to 3.56 +/- 0.18 l/min.m2) and in mean heart rate (hr) (83 +/- 3 to 105 +/- 3 beat/min). mean systemic vascular resistance index decreased significantly (p less than .01) in all patients (2271 +/- 101 to 1648 +/- 83 dyne.sec/cm5.m2). pulmonary vascular resistance index did not change in the ten coronary artery bypass graft patients, but decreased significantly (p less than .01) in the eight valve replacement patients (561 +/- 98 to 421 +/- 79 dyne.sec/cm5.m2). mean do2 increased in all patients, although there was no concomitant increase in oxygen consumption (vo2) in four patients. we observed a significant (p less than .01) increase in mean vo2 in the remaining 14 patients (110 +/- 6 to 148 +/- 12 ml/min.m2), in spite of significant decreases in pao2 and increases in right-to-left intrapulmonary shunting. although increases in hr and ventricular arrhythmias may limit its use, dobutamine increases ci and do2 in patients after cpb. in the present study, dobutamine's varying metabolic effect exemplifies the need for close monitoring of hemodynamic and metabolic variables when using vasoactive drugs in the postoperative period.
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus. human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states. in adults, it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma. infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period; affected children face prolonged, difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis. prevention of infection remains the best approach, since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal.
an evaluation of sensory changes and pain relief in trigeminal neuralgia following intracranial microvascular decompression and/or trigeminal glycerol rhizotomy. nineteen patients with trigeminal neuralgia were treated with either trigeminal ganglion glycerolysis or glycerolysis and intracranial microvascular decompression. all had a good degree of pain relief. of those receiving glycerol alone (group a), 50% subjectively reported a mild reduction of fine tactile sensation. a similar response was reported by those treated with both glycerol and decompression (group b). the degree of sensory loss was so mild that thermal testing was useless as a discriminatory tool. the degree of sensory loss was not greater when both surgical procedures were performed than when the less-invasive trigeminal ganglion glycerolysis alone was used.
alterations of adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals. nasal hyperreactivity in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in adrenergic receptors. radioligand receptor-binding studies with the antagonists, 3h-prazosin (alpha 1-adrenoceptor), 3h-rauwolscine (alpha 2-adrenoceptor), and 125i-(-)-cyanopindolol (beta-adrenoceptor) were performed in homogenates of nasal mucosa of allergic and nonallergic (na) patients to investigate this hypothesis. the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis. no significant differences in affinities or densities of alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors could be demonstrated in allergic patients in comparison with na and control individuals. the beta-adrenoceptor density was significantly reduced in allergic patients in comparison with that of control individuals. neither changes in agonist binding or in the effect of gpp(nh)p on the agonist binding to beta-adrenoceptors could be observed in allergic patients. the subtype selective antagonist, lk203-030, demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous population of beta 2-adrenoceptors in human nasal mucosa of both na and allergic patients. in vitro, autoradiography demonstrated specific 125i-(-)-cyanopindolol labeling of the epithelium in na and allergic patients. in conclusion, no changes in characteristics of alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa could be demonstrated in nasal allergy. however, a decreased number of beta-adrenoceptors may reflect a beta-adrenergic abnormality in nasal allergy.
plasma fibrinogen and coronary risk factors: the scottish heart health study. plasma fibrinogen was measured in a sample of 8824 men and women aged 40-59 years participating in the scottish heart health study, and related to cardiovascular risk factors. women had higher fibrinogen levels than men. in both sexes, multivariate analysis showed that fibrinogen was positively associated with age, smoking, total cholesterol and body mass index and negatively associated with alcohol consumption. among women, early menopause and systolic blood pressure were also associated with fibrinogen levels. univariate analyses showed weak positive associations with fish consumption for both sexes although only male white fish consumption entered the final model. women with a history of contraceptive pill usage had significantly lower fibrinogen levels. the relationship between fibrinogen and physical activity was complex, and could largely be explained by smoking. these findings support the hypothesis that raised fibrinogen is one mechanism by which several major risk factors may promote coronary heart disease. however, known risk factors explained, at most, 10% of the total variance in fibrinogen levels among the general population.
early and late results after isolated coronary artery bypass surgery in 159 patients aged 80 years and older. we have studied 159 patients 80 years of age or older who have had isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) since 1977. eighty-seven percent have had surgery since 1984. two thirds of the patients were male, and the mean age was 82 years. most patients (97%) were in new york heart association (nyha) functional class iii or iv, 89% had unstable/postinfarction angina pectoris, and 67% had rest pain. almost half (47%) required preoperative admission to the coronary care unit, 6% required preoperative use of an intra-aortic balloon pump, and 20% were operated on emergently. significant left main coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) was present in 41%. ten patients (6.3%) died within 30 days of surgery, with seven more patients dying during the same hospital admission or soon after transfer to another institution. this resulted in an overall hospital mortality of 10.7%. the median hospital stay was 10 days. on univariate analysis, the significant predictors of hospital mortality were nyha iv, angina at rest, preoperative admission to the coronary care unit, emergency operation, ejection fraction less than 0.50, and the presence of mitral regurgitation. on multivariate analysis, ejection fraction less than 0.50 was the only significant risk factor (p less than 0.01). of hospital survivors, 98% have been followed for a mean of 29 months. the estimated 5-year survival (+/- sem) of all patients was 71 +/- 4.5%, and for hospital survivors, 80 +/- 4.5%. the most important predictor of adverse survival was an ejection fraction less than 0.50. seventy-nine percent are angina-free, and 89% are in nyha classes i and ii. the majority of patients felt that they were improved by surgery. we conclude that cabg in patients 80 years or older, although associated with increased operative risk, gives excellent relief of symptoms and good 5-year survival. patients should not be denied cabg because of age alone.
diagnosis and localization of prostate carcinoma by fine-needle aspiration cytology and correlation with histologic whole-organ sections after radical prostatectomy. twenty-nine patients with clinical stage t1-2, no, mo prostate carcinoma were treated by retropubic radical prostatectomy. diagnosis was made by fine-needle aspiration biopsy from six to eight separate sectors of the prostate. at the time of biopsy, diagrams of the palpated organ were drawn, depicting the location of the lesion and the site of each biopsy. without the examiners' knowledge of cytologic data, extirpated prostate glands were examined with whole organ histologic sections, and carcinomas were scored according to the method of gleason. the location and extent of all typical and malignant foci were mapped on a standard diagram. the results of preoperative cytologic examination were compared with postoperative histopathologic findings, showing a tendency toward underestimation of both the extent and degree of differentiation of the carcinomas during cytologic examination. in no case were these parameters overestimated during cytologic examination. the gleason score correlated well with the presence of capsular and seminal vesicle invasion.
natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited. to define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke, we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the cornell neurology database from october 1979 to june 1985. analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables. twenty-five patients (36%) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin, another two (3%) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage, and a total of 10 patients (14%) had bleeding complications. no clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin. clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time. without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke, many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin. our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke. furthermore, frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome.
characterization of a factor-dependent acute leukemia cell line with translocation (3;3)(q21;q26). a strictly factor-dependent cell line (ucsd/aml1) was established from a patient with the syndrome of multilineage acute leukemia with high platelets. the patient's cells and the cell line karyotype were 45,xx,-7,t(3;3)(q21;q26), typical of the syndrome of acute leukemia with high platelets. the cell line expresses cd34, cd7, tdt, and myeloid (cd13, cd14, cd33) and megakaryocyte/platelet (cd36, cd41, cd42b, cdw49b) antigens. in short-term culture, ucsd/aml1 cells proliferate in response to interleukin-3 (il-3), il-4, il-6, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf), and granulocyte-macrophage csf (gm-csf), but not il-1, il-2, il-5, or g-csf. in long-term culture, proliferation can be sustained by gm-csf, il-6, or m-csf. when maintained in gm-csf, a small percentage of cells form multinucleated megakaryocyte-like giant cells. culture with gm-csf combined with il-6, but not with il-6 alone, increased giant cell formation fourfold to sevenfold. il-6 alone or in combination with gm-csf increased expression of platelet-related antigens. in contrast, culture with phorbol ester induced formation of macrophage-like cells. ucsd/aml1 is the first human acute nonlymphocytic leukemia cell line established from a patient with an acute leukemia syndrome associated with a specific chromosome abnormality.
disproportionate septal hypertrophy associated with erythroblastosis fetalis. we retrospectively reviewed clinical and echocardiographic data on 10 newborns with erythroblastosis fetalis who were admitted to our nurseries between 1984 and 1988 and who required a double-volume exchange transfusion and neonatal intensive care. echocardiograms were performed in the first 48 hours of life. in 5 patients, disproportionate septal hypertrophy was demonstrated; 1 additional patient had biventricular hypertrophy with a thickened septum but not disproportionate septal hypertrophy. the mean septal: left ventricular free-wall ratio for the group (n = 10) was 1.37. no correlation was apparent between the occurrence of disproportionate septal hypertrophy and newborn glucose, bilirubin, or hematocrit values. when analyzed separately, the 4 patients who did not receive intrauterine blood transfusions had a ratio of 1.73 +/- 0.21 (mean +/- sem); this was significantly greater than the ratio in the 6 patients who were transfused in utero (1.13 +/- 0.24). in patients who underwent transfusions, there was no correlation between the number of transfusions and the septal:left ventricular ratio. this study reports a significant but previously unrecognized cardiac hypertrophy with disproportionate septal hypertrophy in patients with erythroblastosis fetalis. our data suggest a sparing effect of intrauterine fetal transfusions. the mechanism by which these transfusions may affect the hypertrophic development of the myocardium remains to be determined.
pyogenic hepatic abscess. presented is a case of spontaneous pyogenic hepatic abscess in a previously healthy young man without associated risk factors. this disease entity has a low incidence, however, it is associated with significant morbidity and mortality if diagnosis and treatment are delayed.
magnetic resonance imaging of small hepatocellular carcinoma. thirty-eight patients with small hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs), size less than 20 mm, initially detected by ultrasound (us) and histologically confirmed, were examined by magnetic resonance (mr) imaging, computed tomographic (ct) scan, and angiography. mr imaging demonstrated hcc nodules in nine (75.0%) of 12 patients with tumors less than 10 mm in diameter and in 22 (84.6%) of 26 patients with tumors 10-20 mm in diameter. in total, hcc nodules were detected in 31 of 38 patients (81.6%) by mr imaging. on the other hand, hcc lesions were found on ct scan in 14 of 26 patients (53.8%) and in 27 of 35 patients (77.1%) by angiography. with mr imaging, hcc nodules were demonstrated in 21 of 31 patients on both t1 and t2 weighted images, and 13 of 21 patients (61.9%) were shown to have low intensity areas or iso intensity areas on t1 weighted image, whereas the other eight patients (38.1%) were shown to have high intensity areas. all 21 patients were shown to have high intensity areas on t2 weighted image. among 15 resected cases, four patients had a high intensity area on t1 weighted image, and a significant fatty change was noted in hcc nodules by histological study of the resected specimen. we suggest that mr imaging is a useful diagnostic imaging modality, even in small hcc of less than 20 mm.
aqueductal (pencil) glioma presenting as neurogenic pulmonary edema: a case report. a case of neurogenic pulmonary edema due to hydrocephalus, without initial neurological deficit, is described. computed tomography demonstrated a ring enhancing lesion in the tectum of the mesencephalon obstructing the aqueduct of sylvius. the lesion, on autopsy, was a rare mesencephalic glioma described in the literature as a "pencil glioma" of the aqueduct.
second cancer after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix. radiation-induced cancers after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix were investigated on 11,855 patients including 5725 patients treated with radiation therapy alone, 1969 postoperative radiation therapy and 4161 surgery alone. the observed-to-expected ratios of the second primary cancer was 0.933 for the patients with radiation therapy alone and 1.074 for the patients with postoperative radiation therapy, respectively. no significant increase was observed in the risk of second primary cancers when all sites were combined. however, assessing on site by site basis, significant excess was noted for the rectum cancer, leukemia, and bladder cancer for the radiation therapy group but not for the surgery group. a significant excess of lung cancer was observed in both radiation therapy and surgery groups, which was attributed to some other causative factors. radiation-induced cancers were suggested to develop apparently in organs involved in the irradiated field.
association of immunoglobulin km and gm allotypes with specific antinuclear antibodies and disease susceptibility among connective tissue disease patients. the distribution of the immunoglobulin km(1) and gm phenotypes was examined in patients with connective tissue diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus, mixed connective tissue disease, and scleroderma, whose sera were characterized for antibodies against nuclear antigens and polypeptides of u small nuclear ribonucleoproteins. we found a strong association between km(1) phenotype and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (p less than 0.00001, relative risk = 17). we also found a positive association between the km(1) phenotype and the presence of anti-double-stranded dna antibodies. the presence of certain immunoglobulin genes or gene families may have a role in susceptibility to the development of autoantibodies and/or of connective tissue disease.
the risk of lymph node metastasis in colorectal polyps with invasive adenocarcinoma. one hundred fifty-one patients with colorectal polyps containing invasive adenocarcinoma treated by resection were studied to determine the incidence of lymph node metastasis and whether lymph node metastasis was related to the depth of invasion. other variables evaluated included size and configuration of the polyp, grade of adenocarcinoma, presence or absence of lymphovascular invasion, and degree of differentiation. in patients with sessile polyps, the incidence of lymph node metastasis was 10 percent. eighty percent of these lesions had lymphovascular invasion. for pedunculated polyps, the overall incidence of lymph node metastasis was 6 percent. however, there was no incidence of lymph node metastasis when the depth of invasion was limited to the head, neck, and stalk of the polyp (levels 1, 2, and 3). only when the depth of invasion reached to the base of the stalk (level 4) was the risk of lymph node metastasis high (27 percent). the other risk factors were not associated with lymph node metastasis. we concluded that the most significant risk factor for lymph node metastasis in patients with invasive carcinoma in a polyp was invasion into the submucosa of the bowel wall (level 4).
vertebral hemangiomas: fat content as a sign of aggressiveness. thirty-two vertebral hemangiomas (vhs) were evaluated with nonenhanced computed tomography (ct), t1-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) imaging, ct enhanced with contrast material, and selective spinal arteriography. the stroma between the osseous trabeculae was found to correspond to either fatty tissue or soft tissue or both. all 11 asymptomatic vhs showed complete fatty stroma at ct and increased signal intensity at mr imaging. in contrast, all four compressive vhs had soft-tissue attenuation at ct. three compressive vhs showed low signal intensity on mr images. predominantly fatty stroma at ct and increased signal intensity at mr imaging were associated with normal or only slightly increased vascularization at selective spinal arteriography or contrast-enhanced ct, while soft-tissue stroma at ct and low signal intensity at mr imaging were associated with distinct hypervascularization. the authors' experience suggests that fatty vhs may represent inactive forms of vh, while soft-tissue content at ct and low signal intensity at mr imaging may indicate a more active vascular lesion with potential to compress the spinal cord. ct and mr imaging may be especially valuable for evaluating patients with clinical signs or symptoms of uncertain origin and findings compatible with vh at plain radiography.
the bone marrow in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-related disease. morphology and clinical correlation. to determine the true incidence of abnormalities in bone marrow specimens from patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) and the clinical significance of these abnormalities regarding their cause and their role in the production of hematologic complications, 216 bone marrow biopsies, aspirates, and/or imprint preparations from 178 patients who either were seropositive for hiv infection or met the centers for disease control (cdc) criteria for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) were studied. detailed morphologic review was performed in a blind fashion as to clinical status. extensive clinical, therapeutic, and laboratory data were collected for each patient. statistical analysis was performed to detect significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical/therapeutic/laboratory features. among the most common bone marrow findings were hypercellularity (53% of specimens), myelodysplasia (69%), evidence of reticuloendothelial (re) iron blockade (65%), megaloblastic hematopoiesis (38%), fibrosis (20%), plasmacytosis (25%), lymphocytic aggregates (36%), and granulomas (13%). a number of statistically significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical features were noted. no significant association was detected between any morphologic finding and therapy with a variety of drugs. in 7 of 14 (50%) patients found to have marrow involvement by malignant neoplasm, the bone marrow represented the initial site of diagnosis of the neoplasm. most of the bone marrow abnormalities associated with hiv infection appear to be related directly to the infection or its complications and not to therapeutic intervention. in certain clinical situations, bone marrow examination continues to be useful in the management of patients infected with hiv.
mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions: compliance rate and diagnostic yield. all recommendations for mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions seen at mammography during a 6-month period were reviewed to establish compliance rate and eventual outcome. one hundred forty-four of 2,650 mammograms (5%) showed minimal abnormalities that warranted short-term and periodic mammographic follow-up. rates of compliance at 4 months and at 1, 2, and 3 years were 88%, 71%, 60%, and 47%, respectively. progressive mammographic change was found in 10 patients, only one of whom had a carcinoma. it was concluded that mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions is a reasonable alternative to surgical biopsy, although patient compliance remains a significant problem.
comparison of coronary angiographic features and oral dipyridamole thallium 201 tomography. coronary angiography and left ventriculography is commonly used to identify those patients with incomplete infarctions and therefore, a need for revascularization. the authors compared coronary angiography and left ventriculography with thallium 201 tomography using oral dipyridamole to identify patients with potential ischemia in the infarct zone indicating viable tissue. forty-five patients (37 men, 8 women) with acute myocardial infarctions (29 anterior, 16 inferior) who received intravenous thrombolytic therapy were studied. on the basis of the left ventriculograms, only 16 patients were judged to have residual function in the infarct zone. six of these patients had no thallium redistribution in the infarct zone, indicating lack of residual ischemia. of the 29 patients with no residual function in the infarct zone, 18 had redistribution in the infarct zone, suggesting residual ischemic myocardium and thus viable tissue. among the 32 patients with open infarct vessels, 15 had no redistribution in the infarct zone, but of the remaining 13 patients with occluded infarct vessels, 9 had redistribution in the infarct zone indicating residual ischemia and thus viable tissue. the authors' data suggest that neither wall motion analysis by left ventriculography nor the angiographic status of the infarct vessel identifies those patients with residual ischemia as evidenced by thallium tomography using oral dipyridamole.
experimental alcoholic skeletal muscle myopathy is characterised by a rapid and sustained decrease in muscle rna content. an investigation was made into the effects of ethanol feeding (36% of total calories) on skeletal muscle. from 7 to 42 days, muscle weights and protein and dna contents of alcohol-treated rats were significantly lower (10-23%) than pair-fed controls (with glucose as 36% of total calories). ethanol feeding markedly reduced muscle rna content by 22-34%, when compared to controls. muscle rna content of ethanol-fed rats at 7, 14, 28 and 42 days of treatment was significantly lower than initial values (i.e. at 3 days) by 22-38%. thus, ethanol feeding caused an initial net loss and thereafter a reduction in the rate of accretion of rna. the marked and sustained loss in the muscle protein synthetic apparatus may be a precipitating event in the development of experimental skeletal muscle myopathy.
enveloping the bladder with displacement of flap of the rectus abdominis muscle for the treatment of neurogenic bladder. neurogenic bladder is a frequent occurrence. a new surgical technique has been designed and was used successfully in 18 patients with ideal results. the key point of the operation is to turn over a flap of rectus abdominis muscle to envelop the bladder. contraction of the muscle flap and the abdominal muscles would enhance voiding ability. in the meantime, the bladder is displaced forward and the resultant change in the bladder-posterior urethral angle also favors voiding. since the bladder is near the anterior abdominal wall manual compression during voiding is made easier. all of these advantages greatly facilitate voiding.
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker. phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals. its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer, safer drugs. we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache. he developed grand mal seizures, coma, hypotension, respiratory and renal failure, and hepatic injury. serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml. the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis.
lung injury in a surfactant-deficient lung is modified by indomethacin. repetitive total lung lavage in adult rabbits leads to a reproducible severe surfactant-deficient lung injury. hypoxemia requiring mechanical ventilation occurs, accompanied by a substantial pulmonary hypertension, a large intra-alveolar protein leak, peripheral neutropenia, and pathological features of marked neutrophil infiltration with extensive hyaline membrane formation. pretreatment with indomethacin abolishes postlavage pulmonary hypertension, preserves a slightly better lung function with higher arterial po2, and prevents the postlavage peripheral neutropenia found in untreated animals. pretreatment with a thromboxane a2 receptor blocker (l 655,240, merck frosst, canada) also completely attenuated pulmonary hypertension, providing evidence that thromboxane a2 mediates pulmonary arterial hypertension after lung lavage. however, specific thromboxane receptor blockade had no other long-lasting beneficial effects on the ongoing injury in this model.
glomus tumours of the skin: an immunohistochemical investigation of the expression of marker proteins. immunohistochemical studies were carried out on cutaneous glomus tumours from 10 patients. the glomus areas in these tumours reacted strongly with anti-smooth muscle (cga-7), anti-muscle (hhf-35) and anti-vimentin antibodies. their neural supply was analysed using several nervous tissue markers (anti-neurone specific enolase, anti-s 100, anti-leu 7, anti-neurofilaments). the results indicate a sprouting and proliferation rather than entrapment of pre-existing nerve fibres.
management of chronic middle ear effusion with prednisone combined with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. fifty-three patients were enrolled and evaluable in a randomized, double-blinded controlled clinical trial comparing prednisone for 7 days plus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (tmp/smz) for 30 days vs. tmp/smz alone in treating chronic middle ear effusion (mee). clearing of the effusion in both ears or in one when only one was involved was called complete resolution; clearing in one of two affected ears was called partial resolution. the outcomes 2 weeks after initiation of therapy of 26 patients initially treated with prednisone plus tmp/smz were complete resolution in 20, partial resolution in three, and unchanged in three. the outcomes in 27 patients initially treated with tmp/smz alone were complete resolution in eight, partial resolution in three, unchanged in 13 and development of acute otitis media in three (p less than 0.01 for complete resolution). two weeks after initiation of therapy, patients with a mee that failed to clear were crossed over to the alternative regimen. overall 29 of 41 patients (71%) who received oral prednisone plus tmp/smz initially or after the crossover had complete resolution of their middle ear effusion at 2 weeks after starting prednisone and tmp/smz. five of 35 (14%) patients treated with prednisone plus tmp/smz and one of six (17%) patients treated with tmp/smz alone who had complete resolution at 4 weeks required subsequent referrals for tympanostomy tubes. a course of prednisone for 7 days plus tmp/smz for 30 days with monthly follow-up should be considered in children with mee persisting beyond 6-8 weeks before referral for tympanostomy tube placement.
oral contraceptive therapy and the surgical management of ent patients: a review of current clinical practice. the current policy of british otolaryngologists with regard to the preoperative cessation of the oral contraceptive pill is reported. this is based on a confidential questionnaire sent to all members of the british association of otolaryngologists. the overall response rate was 66%, 91% of which were from practising otolaryngologists and forms the basis of this report, the remaining 9% being from respondents not engaged in active surgery. although there is evidence to show an increased risk of developing thromboembolic complications after major abdominal, gynaecological and hip surgery in those patients taking the oestrogen-containing contraceptive pill, the risk following minor and intermediate surgery (which forms the bulk of the otolaryngologist's workload) is not known. not surprisingly therefore the results of the survey show a varied policy across the country with 36.5% of respondents choosing to continue the pill and 25% always stopping the pill preoperatively. the remainder elect to stop the pill only in certain circumstances.
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia. incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention. a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia.
increasing the cancer screening of the medically underserved in south florida. diagnosis and treatment of cancers at advanced stages have contributed to a significantly lower survival rate among individuals of low socioeconomic status compared with those in higher brackets. in an effort to increase the accessibility and acceptability of cancer screening among such individuals in dade county, florida, the cancer control division of the sylvester comprehensive cancer center at the university of miami school of medicine initiated a pilot early detection program in 1987. the program initially provided breast cancer screening for women, aged 40 and older, who attended ten community health care centers located in low-income neighborhoods. with the selection of miami by the american cancer society as one of three sites for conducting a screening demonstration project for the socioeconomically disadvantaged, this program has recently been expanded to include pelvic screening for women, aged 40 and older, and prostate screening for men, aged 65 and older.
complete jejunoileal necrosis due to torsion of the superior mesenteric artery. we have reported a case of small-bowel volvulus in which complete jejunoileal necrosis resulted from torsion of the superior mesenteric artery. this case was unusual not only because of the extent of necrosis but also because primary small-bowel volvulus is rare in adults. despite nearly total small-bowel resection, the patient continues to do well 6 months postoperatively.
mechanism of surgical stress impairment of human perioperative natural killer cell cytotoxicity. natural killer (nk) cells are an important defense against intravascular tumor dissemination. tumor embolization can occur at surgery, so we tested whether surgical stress decreased perioperative nk cell cytotoxicity, and examined the underlying mechanism of suppression. patients with solid tumors underwent nk cell cytotoxicity assay just before and 24 hours after surgery in a 3-hour chromium 51 release assay. the nk cell cytotoxicity was significantly decreased postoperatively. we considered that surgical nk cell impairment might be due to (1) nk cell redistribution, (2) presence of suppressor cells, or (3) direct "toxic" effects on nk cells. impaired nk cell cytotoxicity was not due to nk cell redistribution, because differential counts showed no significant changes in the percentage of large granular lymphocyte nk morphology. to isolate possible suppressor cells, postoperative cells from patients were selectively depleted of nk cells using anti-leu-11b monoclonal antibody plus complement; these cells were then mixed with autologous preoperative cells. postoperative nk cell cytotoxicity was markedly impaired, but the postoperative nk depleted cells did not suppress preoperative nk cells. we conclude that nk cell functional impairment from surgical stress is due to direct "toxic" effects on nk cells rather than either nk cell redistribution or the generation of nk-directed suppressor cells.
radiotherapy. the mainstay in the treatment of early glottic carcinoma. early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis may be effectively treated with surgery or radiation therapy. controversy exists as to whether radiation therapy effects survival at the expense of vocal function by ultimately requiring more total laryngectomies for salvage of local tumor recurrence. this study reviewed the medical records of 185 patients with t1 or t2, no invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis treated with primary radiation therapy between 1969 and 1984. all patients were followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completion of therapy. one hundred sixty-one patients met the criteria for local control analysis. radiation therapy controlled disease in 93% (105 of 113) of patients with t1 lesions and 73% (38 of 48) of those with t2 tumors. ultimate control of disease for t1 and t2 lesions, including surgical salvage, was 111 (98%) of 113 and 44 (92%) of 48 patients, respectively. the rate of successful surgical salvage was 75% (t1) and 70% (t2). the t2 lesions with impaired vocal cord mobility or anterior commissure disease were identified as being at increased risk for recurrence after primary radiation therapy. overall voice preservation was 90%. our data demonstrate that radiation therapy effects disease-free survival rates that are comparable to those produced by surgery, without sacrificing voice. although a small percentage of patients with selected early glottic lesions may be more effectively treated with primary conservation surgery, these data do not support a change in philosophy concerning primary treatment of early glottic cancer with radiation therapy.
pathologic characteristics of human t-cell lymphotropic virus (htlv)-related extranodal orofacial lymphomas. eleven cases of extranodal orofacial lymphomas (eofl), consisting of four htlv-related and seven htlv-unrelated eofl, were investigated with respect to the immunohistochemical and clinical features. htlv-related eofl were of t-cell phenotype and were associated with a poorer prognosis than htlv-unrelated eofl, most of which were of b-cell origin. the appearance of giant cells with cerebriform nuclei was helpful in identifying htlv-related eofl. the relatively high incidence of t-cell type eofl in our series was considered to be related to the high percentage of htlv carriers in our district, an area endemic for adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma.
clinical experience with the nimbus pump. the nimbus pump is an indwelling, electromagnetic powered left ventricular (lv) assist device inserted transfemorally. the inflow cannula (7 mm) is positioned across the aortic valve and the pump in the descending aorta. indications for insertion include cardiogenic shock despite maximal medical support and pcwp greater than 18 mmhg, map less than 90 mmhg, and cl less than 2 l/min/m2. twelve patients underwent the attempt at surgical insertion of the nimbus pump. diagnoses included eight acute myocardial infarctions (ami), two ischemic cardiomyopathy, one postpartum cardiomyopathy, and one transplanted heart rejection. eight (67%) of twelve patients had successful insertion. one patient had peripheral vascular disease preventing passage, and three had femoral vessels too small for insertion (less than 7.5 hagar dilator). five patients with the diagnosis of ami had successful insertion and three (60%) underwent sufficient lv recovery for removal of the device; the other two patients died of stroke and ventricular arrhythmias, respectively. three patients with the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy had progression of the disease process, and their needs exceeded the capabilities of the pump and they died of multiorgan failure. the nimbus pump is an attractive lv assist device because of its pumping capacity (3.5 l/min) and minor surgical procedure for insertion. however, its application is limited because of access route and size. the device appears to work well for patients in cardiogenic shock after ami (60% recovery) but does not appear indicated for patients with cadiomyopathy.
patients with mental disorders who work. mental illness can devastate persons intellectually and emotionally; with maintenance therapy, however, certain patients with chronic mental illnesses are capable of holding a variety of jobs. from the total population of psychiatric patients in our va outpatient clinic, the 87 who were gainfully employed were identified to determine common factors among them. affective disorders were the predominant diagnoses among patients who worked, while schizophrenia was more common among those who did not. alcoholism was diagnosed in approximately 25% of working and nonworking groups.
hepatic resection for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with removal of portal vein tumor thrombi. in 13 of 398 patients who underwent hepatectomy, tumor thrombi of the remnant portal vein was concomitantly removed by the balloon catheter method in 8, an open method under hepatic vascular exclusion in 1, and resection of the occlusive portal segment followed by portal reconstruction in 4. in 8 of these patients the liver was cirrhotic. the mode of hepatectomy consisted of bisegmetectomy or trisegmentectomy in 11, segmentectomy in one, and partial resection in one patient. two patients died of portal thrombosis or hepatic failure in the hospital. the mean survival in four patients was 12 months. seven are still alive (mean, 16 months). in the corresponding period, nine patients with occlusive tumor thrombi of the portal confluence were hospitalized without operation and survived up to 4 months (mean, 64 days) after detection of the tumoral occlusion. the causes of death of the nine patients were bleeding esophageal varices, rupture of the tumor, or hepatic failure. it was revealed that removal of tumor thrombi in the remnant portal vein contributes to (1) portal decompression, (2) feasibility of arterial embolization, and (3) increase in resectability of the main tumor. at present, this procedure might be regarded as an emergency procedure for the avoidance of the above lethal impendence, but it may open the door to an adjuvant therapy.
congenital angiotropic lymphoma (intravascular lymphomatosis) of the t-cell type. the autopsy of a stillborn infant showed an extensive intravascular proliferation of atypical cells throughout the body. there was no infiltration by these cells of the parenchyma of the bone marrow, lymph nodes, or thymus. by histochemistry, these cells were negative for naphthol-asd-chloroacetate esterase, a marker of granulocytes. by immunohistochemistry, they were reactive with mt-1 and anti-leu-22, but unreactive with mb-1, l26, anti-leu-m1, tu-9, and antihemoglobin antibodies. a few cells reacted with antileukocyte common antigen and uchl-1. based on these findings, the lesion was diagnosed as angiotropic lymphoma (intravascular lymphomatosis) of the t-cell type, which occurred congenitally. most angiotropic lymphomas in the literature are of the b-cell type, and no leukemia virus type i antibody was negative in the mother.
adverse impact of fibrin clot inhibitors on intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors. although intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy has proved to be efficacious in the treatment and prophylaxis against tumor recurrence of superficial bladder tumors, its mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated. previous work has suggested that bacillus calmette-guerin organisms attach to the matrix protein, fibronectin, during fibrin clot formation at sites of urothelial disruption and that this attachment was required for the antitumor effect of bacillus calmette-guerin to be expressed. furthermore, drugs inhibiting clot formation were found to abrogate the antitumor effect of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy in a murine bladder tumor model. to examine the effect of inhibitors of fibrin clot formation on the results of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy, a retrospective analysis of 149 evaluable patients receiving intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin for superficial bladder tumors was performed. the over-all response rate free of tumor for 29 patients who concomitantly received inhibitors of fibrin clot formation with bacillus calmette-guerin therapy was 48%, as compared with 67% for 120 patients who were not receiving these medications (p = 0.0655, chi-square). the most striking difference was noted for patients who failed with recurrent superficial disease. of the patients who received fibrin clot inhibitors during intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy 35% had recurrent superficial tumors compared to only 8% of those who did not receive these drugs during a mean followup of 29.8 plus or minus 11 months (p = 0.005, chi-square). our study suggests that inhibitors of fibrin clot formation may have an adverse influence on the results of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors.
tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection. a 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated mycobacterium avium and mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to mycobacterium tuberculosis. the abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin. the adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved. the abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter, and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy. three weeks into therapy, a second drainage with a catheter was required. the isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted.
angiographic assessment of the culprit coronary artery lesion before acute myocardial infarction. serial angiographic studies of patients with myocardial infarction and unstable angina suggest that the culprit plaque underlying a thrombus need not have produced severe luminal obstruction before onset of the event. an atherosclerotic coronary artery lesion can, therefore, have 2 important characteristics. first, it may be obstructive. second, it may be "vulnerable" in that it has the potential to become thrombogenic if exposed to the appropriate triggering stimulus. a lesion need not be obstructive to become thrombogenic, nor do all obstructive lesions have thrombogenic potential. the cause of an infarction may thus be rupture of a nonobstructive plaque leading to occlusive thrombus formation. because it may be difficult to predict the site of a subsequent occlusion from a coronary angiogram, coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty directed only at discernible stenotic lesions may not be effective for preventing subsequent myocardial infarctions. appropriate therapy may need to be directed at the entire coronary tree. such therapy might include cholesterol lowering, beta blockade and aspirin.
catastrophic thrombosis of porcine aortic bioprostheses. hemodynamically critical thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position without thrombotic predisposition is rare. two patients at our institution abruptly manifested thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position within 3 months of implantation without apparent predisposing factors. clinicians should consider this rare but catastrophic complication in the appropriate setting.
unsupervised children in vehicles: a risk for pediatric trauma. in this study, a series of instances of children injured by a motor vehicle set in motion by an unsupervised child are reviewed. during a 24-month period, nine such children were identified through a multihospital and coroner's office monitoring system in a single urban county. injuries ranged from multiple abrasions and contusions to serious leg and head injuries. three children died. the typical circumstance involved a child releasing the brake or placing the vehicle in gear in a private driveway which resulted in the vehicle striking or rolling over the victim. in four of the nine cases, the child who set the vehicle in motion fell or jumped from the vehicle and then became the injured victim. the extent of these unusual motor vehicle-related injuries is unknown because they are unlikely to be reported in official police statistics. according to the study findings, there is a need to educate the public and health professionals about the risks associated with leaving a child unattended in a motor vehicle and the hazardous environment of the private driveway. preventive measures would include not leaving a child unattended in a vehicle, locking unattended vehicles to prevent access, and redesigning of private driveways.
cadherin cell adhesion receptors as a morphogenetic regulator. cadherins are a family of cell adhesion receptors that are crucial for the mutual association of vertebrate cells. through their homophilic binding interactions, cadherins play a role in cell-sorting mechanisms, conferring adhesion specificities on cells. the regulated expression of cadherins also controls cell polarity and tissue morphology. cadherins are thus considered to be important regulators of morphogenesis. moreover, pathological examinations suggest that the down-regulation of cadherin expression is associated with the invasiveness of tumor cells.
pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma of the radial diaphysis: case report. solitary enchondromata are rare but well recognised benign bone tumours. they are extremely rare in the radius. we report the case of a pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma in the radial diaphysis and its successful treatment.
interlocking intramedullary nailing for supracondylar and intercondylar fractures of the distal part of the femur. thirty-seven fractures of the distal part of the femur in thirty-five patients were treated with interlocking intramedullary nailing. all fractures were nailed by a closed technique after any intercondylar extension of the fracture had been managed by reduction and stabilization with percutaneous lag-screws. patients who had an isolated condylar fracture or a severely comminuted intercondylar fracture were treated with other types of implants. there were thirty extra-articular (type-a) fractures and seven intra-articular (type-c1 and type-c2) fractures. postoperatively, early mobilization exercises and weight-bearing were begun. at an average duration of follow-up of 20.5 months (range, fifteen to twenty-six months), all thirty-seven fractures had healed. there were no malunions of either the supracondylar or the intercondylar fractures. complications were infrequent and included chronic irritation from the distal screws in three patients and delayed union in one; the latter healed with two centimeters of shortening after bone-grafting. there were no infections. the functional results were assessed with the modified knee-rating system of the hospital for special surgery. thirteen knees (35 per cent) had an excellent result; twenty-two (59 per cent), a good result; and two (5 per cent), a fair result. the results correlated with the age of the patient and the presence of an intra-articular fracture. we concluded that closed interlocking intramedullary nailing is an excellent technique for both supracondylar and simple intercondylar fractures in which closed reduction and percutaneous fixation of the articular fracture is possible.
preservation of regional myocardial function during coronary angioplasty with an autoperfusion balloon catheter: a case report. echocardiographic assessment of regional myocardial function was performed during standard balloon coronary angioplasty followed by autoperfusion balloon angioplasty of a proximal left anterior descending artery stenosis. septal and apical akinesis occurred within 60 seconds of standard balloon inflation, but regional function was well preserved during prolonged autoperfusion balloon inflation.
successful direct ptca on lad after first episode of acute myocardial infarction: does it improve cardiac function? patients who received direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) after acute mycardial infarction and maintained potency but with unimproved cardiac function were studied. in 15 patients, the first episode of acute myocardial infarction was caused by a left anterior descending branch lesion; 11 had an ejection fraction of 50% or more in the left ventriculogram in the follow-up period (improved group), and 4 patients had ejection fraction of less than 50% (unimproved group). there was so significant difference between the groups in the mean time between the onset of infarction and revascularization (improved group, 259.3 +/- 76.9 min; unimproved group, 168.0 +/- 101.6 min) or in the sigma q. which was the sum of the q wave depth of v2, v3, and v4 at the time of admission (improved group, 12.1 +/- 15.6 mm; unimproved group 29.8 +/- 13.4 mm). the maximum creatine kinase concentration was significantly higher in the unimproved group (improved group 2670 +/- 893 iu/l; unimproved group, 7243 +/- 1928 iu/l, p less than 0.05), and the time taken from the onset to reach its peak was significantly shorter in the unimproved group (improved group, 13.0 +/- 5.1 hr; unimproved group, 6.8 +/- 1.3 hr, p less than 0.05.) these results suggest the probability of sudden deterioration of myocardium, and factors other than microcirculatory thromboembolism should be considered as the cause of unimproved cardiac function after successful direct ptca.
traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta presenting as transient paraplegia. a patient involved in a high-speed motor vehicle accident presented paraplegic to the emergency department. he was noted to have an abnormal chest x-ray and, subsequently, underwent aortography which revealed aortic transection. the patient's paraplegia resolved spontaneously prior to definitive aortic repair hours later. aortic rupture presenting as paraplegia is a rare association, but one an emergency physician should be cognizant of, especially in the case of blunt or decelerating trauma.
neurohormonal factors in functional dyspepsia: insights on pathophysiological mechanisms. neurohormonal factors were investigated in 10 patients with functional dyspepsia who had normal or slow upper gut transit and 10 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. gastric and small bowel motility and transit, jejunal responses to luminal distention and im neostigmine, gut hormones, and vagal and sympathetic functions were studied. slow upper gut transit was defined by a gastric emptying slope less than 0.3%/min or 10% small bowel transit time greater than 300 minutes. four patients with slow transit had reduced postprandial antral motility and gut hormone responses. two of the four patients had vagal and sympathetic dysfunction. in 6 patients with normal transit, balloon distention in the jejunum was perceived at a lower volume (32.7 +/- 5.9 ml) than in controls (46.6 +/- 3.0 ml). pressure responses to balloon distention were reduced in 5 and exaggerated in 1 patient; abnormal efferent vagal (2 patients) and sympathetic (1 patient) function were also documented. in view of the normal transit, motility, and jejunal pressure responses to neostigmine in all 6 patients, the abnormal response to distention suggests afferent dysfunction. functional dyspepsia is a heterogenous disorder. abnormal transit is sometimes associated with disorders of extrinsic neural control, but the latter are also found in patients with normal transit. increased perception of intraluminal stimuli in those with normal transit suggests a disturbance in afferent function.
neonatal hepatitis and extrahepatic biliary atresia associated with cytomegalovirus infection in twins. prenatally acquired cytomegalovirus infection in twins was temporally associated with a discordant development of neonatal hepatitis and extrahepatic biliary atresia. this case presents evidence suggesting an association between perinatal cytomegalovirus infection and selected extrahepatic biliary atresia and neonatal hepatitis. congenital cytomegalovirus infections and cytomegalovirus hepatitis are also discussed.
distinguishable types of dyspnea in patients with shortness of breath. dyspnea frequently accompanies a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities. although dyspnea is often considered a single sensation, alternatively it may encompass multiple sensations that are not well explained by a single physiologic mechanism. to investigate whether breathlessness experienced by patients represents more than one sensation, we studied 53 patients with one of the following seven conditions: pulmonary vascular disease, neuromuscular and chest wall disease, congestive heart failure, pregnancy, interstitial lung disease, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. patients were asked to choose descriptions of their sensation(s) of breathlessness from a dyspnea questionnaire listing 19 descriptors. cluster analysis was used to identify natural groupings among the chosen descriptors. we found that patients could distinguish different sensations of breathlessness. in addition, we found an association between certain groups of descriptors and specific conditions producing dyspnea. these findings concur with those in an earlier study in normal volunteers in whom dyspnea was induced by various stimuli. we conclude that different types of dyspnea exist in patients with a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities. furthermore, different mechanisms may mediate these various sensations.
comparison of stir and spin-echo mr imaging at 1.5 t in 45 suspected extremity tumors: lesion conspicuity and extent. short inversion time inversion recovery (stir) imaging and a double-echo spin-echo (se) sequence at 1.5 t in 45 sequential patients with suspected extremity tumors were compared to assess the number of lesions detected, subjective conspicuity of lesions, approximate volume of abnormality detected in each lesion, and identification of peritumoral brightening in tissues adjacent to each lesion. stir sequences enabled detection of all 45 lesions; 44 were detected with the se sequence. tumor appeared most conspicuous on stir images in 35 patients (78%) and was most conspicuous on se images in 10 patients (22%). peritumoral brightening, which indicated either peritumoral edema or microscopic tumor infiltration, was detected in 20 patients but was detected only with stir sequences in nine patients. it is concluded that, although stir and se sequences are comparable for lesion detection in the extremities, most lesions appear more conspicuous with stir. stir may enable detection of a greater volume of abnormality than se sequences and may therefore have important implications for local staging and surgical and radiation therapy planning.
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children. islet cell dysmaturation syndrome (icds) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia, pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis. eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy. seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants. six patients had nesidioblastosis, four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells. four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation (90 to 95 per cent resection). four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively. three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection. none have required reoperation or postoperative medications. all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications. five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment, with three having severe retardation; all showed some improvement postoperatively, but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination. early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds.
midazolam-induced benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome a case history of a patient who developed severe anxiety and agitation on two occasions after discontinuation of a midazolam infusion is presented. the withdrawal symptoms interfered with effective mechanical ventilation and the patient required the reintroduction of a long-acting benzodiazepine to treat the withdrawal state and to facilitate weaning from mechanical ventilation.
transesophageal echocardiography is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in the diagnosis of sinus venosus atrial septal defect. the purpose of this study was to compare transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of various types of atrial septal defects. forty-one adult patients with the clinical diagnosis of atrial septal defect were studied by transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography (30 women, 11 men; 18 to 81 years of age). transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated the atrial septal defect in 33 patients (secundum type in 28, primum type in 3 and sinus venosus type in 2). transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated the defect in all 41 patients. thus, in 8 (20%) of 41 patients the atrial septal defect was demonstrated by transesophageal and not by transthoracic echocardiography. six of the eight had a sinus venosus type atrial septal defect; the other two patients had a secundum atrial septal defect (one of these two had a technically poor transthoracic echocardiogram and the other had a small atrial septal defect). transthoracic echocardiography, therefore, failed to demonstrate the sinus venosus defect in six (75%) of eight patients. an anomalous venous connection associated with the sinus venosus defect was visualized by transesophageal echocardiography in seven of the eight patients but was not seen on transthoracic echocardiography in any patient. sinus venosus type atrial septal defects are frequently not visualized in adults by conventional transthoracic echocardiography. transesophageal echocardiography is recommended when an atrial septal defect is clinically suspected but cannot be visualized by transthoracic echocardiography.
the epithelial changes associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva: a review of the clinical, histological and viral findings in 78 women. seventy-eight excised specimens of squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were reviewed retrospectively for the presence of lichen sclerosus or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (vin) at sites proximal to the tumour or more distant. lichen sclerosus was evident in 61% and vin alone in 31%. vin iii (differentiated) was associated with over 50% of the specimens with lichen sclerosus. hpv 16 was found in six of the 11 vin lesions, investigated but in none of the six with lichen sclerosus.
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome. we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage. each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia. none had hemimegalencephaly. we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients.
is dna ploidy of prognostic significance in stage i cutaneous melanoma? recent studies have suggested that the presence of dna aneuploidy in stage i cutaneous melanoma carries a poor prognosis. to see if our experience correlated with these reports, we used dna analysis by flow cytometry of propidium iodide-stained nuclei disaggregated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of biopsy specimens to retrospectively study 55 patients who had cutaneous stage i melanomas. the patients had been treated from 1977 to 1987 with a mean follow-up of 5.4 years. thirty-nine (71%) of the 55 histograms were diploid, and 16 (29%) of the histograms were aneuploid. dna content was significantly associated with other conventional prognostic factors, including growth pattern, ulceration, pathologic stage, tumor thickness, and clark's level. dna aneuploidy was significantly related to disease-free survival and predicted a poorer prognosis (p less than 0.05), but when stratified for tumor thickness it lost significance. a multivariate discriminant function analysis of 12 factors in melanoma showed six factors to be independently significant in determining prognosis. dna content (p = 0.034) ranked fifth in importance behind growth pattern (p less than 0.001), ulceration (p less than 0.001), thickness (p = 0.001), and pathologic stage (p less than 0.005). dna content, although significantly associated with conventional prognostic factors and disease-free survival, is not the best indicator of biologic behavior of melanomas in this study. further investigation into its usefulness is necessary before dna content can become a routine diagnostic modality in the work-up of stage i cutaneous melanomas.
diffusion and binding of monoclonal antibody tnt-1 in multicellular tumor spheroids. tumor spheroids of ht-29 human colon adenocarcinoma and a375 melanoma were established to investigate the uptake and clearance kinetics of tnt-1, a monoclonal antibody that targets necrotic cells of tumors. our data reveal that there was rapid uptake of tnt-1 and its f(ab')2 fragment in both spheroid models, whereas an antibody of irrelevant specificity, lym-1, and its f(ab')2 fragment bound poorly to the spheroids. unlike previously reported monoclonal antibodies to tumor cell-surface antigens, tnt-1 showed 1) a linear uptake that increased over time without saturation in tumor spheroids and 2) an unexpected uptake by a subpopulation of cells in the viable outer rim of the spheroids. these preclinical studies provide important information concerning the therapeutic potential of tnt monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of cancer and micrometastases.
translumbar arch aortography: a retrospective controlled study of usefulness, technique, and safety. subclavian and axillary artery stenoses may lead to axillofemoral bypass graft failure. these arteries were assessed preoperatively with arch aortography performed after conventional high translumbar peripheral aortography by exchanging the initial 16-gauge sheath for a 5-f pigtail catheter. thirty-two diagnostic translumbar runoff and arch (tlr-arch) aortograms were obtained in 30 patients with advanced lower extremity ischemia. in six patients (20%), the results of the arch study influenced the choice of an inflow site. these patients were compared with 70 control subjects who underwent conventional translumbar aortography without arch studies. in the tlr-arch group, two major complications occurred in one patient, while in the control group 11 major complications occurred in 10 patients. one retroperitoneal hematoma occurred in the tlr-arch group; two occurred in the control group. the mean change in hematocrit for the tlr-arch group was -3.81% (-0.0381), and for the control group it was -4.17% (-0.0417). this difference was not statistically significant. arch aortography is a valuable adjunct to the translumbar aortofemoral study. it can be simply performed without increasing the morbidity of the peripheral study.
carotid endarterectomy for elderly patients: predicting complications objective: to determine whether the complication or death rate from carotid endarterectomy can be predicted from hospital and physician structural variables, such as the hospital's teaching status or the number of endarterectomies done by the surgeon per year. design: survey of medical records. after controlling for the severity of the patient's condition on the basis of data in the medical record at the time of the endarterectomy, regression analyses were used to predict the postoperative stroke, heart attack, and 30-day death rate as a function of patient, physician, and hospital characteristics. setting: three geographic areas (states or large parts of states; average population, 3 million) in the united states. patients: random sample of 1302 patients 65 years of age or older having carotid endarterectomy in 1981. intervention: carotid endarterectomy. measurements and main results: of 1302 patients, 11.3% had a postoperative stroke or heart attack or died within 30 days of the operation. patient age, race, income, and gender; physician volume, board certification status, and age; and hospital size, for-profit status, ownership, and teaching status were not significantly related to the postoperative complication or death rate. if the surgeon was a graduate of a foreign, but not a western european or canadian, medical school, however, the average complication or death rate rose from 10.4% to 19.6% (p less than 0.05). conclusions: the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy depends heavily on its complication rate. because complications after surgery cannot, in general, be predicted from structural variables, referring physicians cannot rely solely on the surgeon's experience and qualifications when recommending a carotid endarterectomy. the surgeon's and the hospital's actual postoperative complication and death rate should be considered.
clinical and molecular diagnosis of miller-dieker syndrome. we report results of clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular studies in 27 patients with miller-dieker syndrome (mds) from 25 families. all had severe type i lissencephaly with grossly normal cerebellum and a distinctive facial appearance consisting of prominent forehead, bitemporal hollowing, short nose with upturned nares, protuberant upper lip, thin vermilion border, and small jaw. several other abnormalities, especially growth deficiency, were frequent but not constant. chromosome analysis showed deletion of band 17p13 in 14 of 25 mds probands. rflp and somatic cell hybrid studies using probes from the 17p13.3 region including pynz22 (d17s5), pynh37 (d17s28), and p144-d6 (d17s34) detected deletions in 19 of 25 probands tested including seven in whom chromosome analysis was normal. when the cytogenetic and molecular data are combined, deletions were detected in 21 of 25 probands. parental origin of de novo deletions was determined in 11 patients. paternal origin occurred in seven and maternal origin in four. our demonstration of cytogenetic or molecular deletions in 21 of 25 mds probands proves that deletion of a "critical region" comprising two or more genetic loci within band 17p13.3 is the cause of the mds phenotype. we suspect that the remaining patients have smaller deletions involving the proposed critical region which are not detected with currently available probes.
successful treatment of severe premenstrual syndrome by combined use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist and estrogen/progestin although abolishment of ovarian cyclicity by the use of a long-acting gnrh agonist (gnrh-a) provides effective treatment for premenstrual syndrome (pms), its use is limited by sequellae of the resultant hypoestrogenism. in this study the effects of estrogen/progestin replacement on the symptomatic improvement afforded by gnrh-a were evaluated in eight women with severe pms. the 8-month study design included 2 months of control, 2 months of gnrh-a alone, and 4 further months in which the exogenous steroids were replaced in randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled cross-over fashion using 1 month each of 1) conjugated equine estrogen (cee) on days 1-25, 2) 10 mg medroxyprogesterone acetate (mpa) on days 16-25, 3) cee (days 1-25) plus mpa (days 16-25), and 4) placebo alone. mood and physical symptoms were measured daily on a valid and reliable instrument, the calendar of premenstrual experiences. as expected, administration of gnrh-a alone resulted in a 75% improvement in luteal phase symptom scores (17.8 +/- 4.8 vs. 4.2 +/- 1.6; p less than 0.01). combined sequential administration of cee and mpa in addition to gnrh-a was effective in maintaining the reduced symptom scores seen after gnrh-a alone and was superior to the addition of cee alone, mpa alone, or placebo. this combination of cee and mpa resulted in a 60% improvement (p less than 0.05) compared to the luteal phase of control months in both behavioral (14.1 +/- 3.9 vs. 4.2 +/- 0.8) and total (17.8 +/- 4.8 vs. 6.5 +/- 1.8) symptoms. we conclude that the undesirable consequence of ovarian steroid deficiency in the treatment of pms by gnrh-a can be overcome by the addition of sequential estrogen and progestogen replacements without significantly reducing the effectiveness of gnrh-a in this disorder.
carcinoma of the vulva. clinicopathologic factors involved in inguinal and pelvic lymph node metastasis. eighty-five women with vulvar squamous cell carcinoma were subjected to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinal and femoral node dissection or to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinofemoral and deep pelvic node dissection. the association between lymph node status (metastatic or not) and several parameters was analyzed: tumor location, size and clinical stage; tumor thickness, histologic grade and mitotic index; blood vessel, lymphatic and perineural infiltration; and lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates. there were no metastases to the pelvic lymph nodes without previous inguinal lymph node involvement. unilateral vulvar carcinomas did not have contralateral metastatic nodes when there was no ipsilateral nodal involvement. lymphatic vessel infiltration showed a statistically significant correlation with inguinal node metastases (p less than .05). no correlation was found between lymph node metastasis and tumor size, clitoral invasion, tumor thickness, histologic grade, blood vessel and perineural infiltration, lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates, and mitotic index.
risk of cancer death in first-degree relatives of patients with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome (lynch type ii): a study of 130 kindreds in the united kingdom. to estimate the relative risks of cancer in first-degree relatives of index patients, 130 pedigrees of dominantly inherited lynch type ii cancer family syndrome have been analysed. the risk of death from all causes was significantly increased in women over 45 years of age and the overall liability to cancer in women was greater than for men. a sevenfold increase in risk of colon cancer was found in both sexes. in female relatives the risk of breast cancer was increased fivefold and lifetime risk of breast cancer was 1 in 3.7. a screening programme based on estimated risks could be offered to first-degree relatives of index patients with lynch type ii cancer family syndrome.
a rare case of renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection. a report of successful surgical treatment in childhood. renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection in an 8-year-old girl with aortic valvular stenosis is presented. a splenorenal arterial anastomosis without splenectomy was successfully performed. this procedure is considered best suited for children with thoracoabdominal aortic dissection as the autogenous graft is expected to grow and provide long-term patency. the spleen left in situ was expected to be advantageous, from the immunological aspect, at the time of open heart surgery for aortic valvular stenosis, which was anticipated in the near future in this child.
reentrant ventricular arrhythmias in the late myocardial infarction period: mechanism by which a short-long-short cardiac sequence facilitates the induction of reentry. the electrophysiological mechanism by which a short-long-short stimulated cardiac sequence facilitates the induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmia was investigated in dogs 4 days after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. in these dogs, reentry develops in the surviving electrophysiologically abnormal epicardial layer that overlies the infarct zone when premature stimulation results in a critically long arc of functional conduction block. the activation wavefront circulates around both ends of the arc, coalesces, and conducts slowly distal to the arc before reactivating sites proximal to the arc to initiate a figure-eight reentrant circuit. epicardial isochronal activation maps and effective refractory periods (erps) were determined during three different stimulation protocols: a, a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 300 msec followed by a single premature stimulus (s2); b, a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 300 msec with abrupt lengthening of the last cycle of the train before s2 to 600 msec; c, a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 600 msec followed by s2. protocol b was found to result in a differential lengthening of erp at adjacent sites within the border of the epicardial ischemic zone, whereas protocols a and c induced, respectively, comparable shortening and lengthening of erps at the same sites. the differential lengthening of erps at adjacent sites resulted in an increased dispersion of refractoriness so that a premature stimulus induced functional conduction block between those sites. the development of a longer arc of conduction block and, hence, a longer reentrant pathway as well as slower conduction of the circulating wavefront during protocol b allowed more time for refractoriness to expire proximal to the arc and for the circulating wavefront to reexcite those sites to initiate reentry. the lengthening of erp, associated with a single long cycle (protocol b), ranged from 44% to 79% of the total increase in erp after a series of eight long cycles (protocol c). epicardial sites with longer erps located close to the center of the ischemic zone showed more lengthening of refractoriness during protocol b compared with more normal sites near the border of the ischemic zone. this strongly suggests that the increased dispersion of refractoriness during protocol b is caused by the shorter memory of ischemic myocardium to the cumulative effects of preceding cycle lengths.
ultrastructural demonstration of peroxidase expression in acute unclassified leukemias: correlation to immunophenotype and treatment outcome. the lineage affinity of 57 cases of acute unclassified leukemias (aul) was reevaluated by ultrastructural analysis of peroxidase expression (poem) in combination with immunophenotyping and analysis of immunoglobulin gene configuration. twenty-three cases of myeloid and three cases of megakaryocytic differentiation were identified by detection of ultrastructural myeloperoxidase (umpo) and platelet peroxidase (uppo). no significant correlation was noted between myeloid marker expression and poem positivity, whereas presence of cd 19 or cd 24 antigen significantly correlated with poem negativity (p = .001 and .023, respectively). ig gene rearrangements including oligoclonal patterns were also recorded in 8 of 14 umpo+ patients tested. fourteen umpo+ patients responded poorly to an all/aul chemotherapy regimen with a low complete remission (cr) rate of 29% and a short median remission duration (mrd) of 5 months. the poem- patients proved very heterogenous with respect to immunophenotype and ig gene rearrangement. seventeen of 21 patients tested had ig gene rearrangements, including oligoclonal patterns. combined data suggest that a proportion of these cases probably derive from a very immature lymphoid progenitor cell, particularly because 15 poem- aul patients showed a response to all/aul chemotherapy comparable to that observed in patients with definitive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) (cr rate 80%, mrd 20 months). thus, ultrastructural analysis of peroxidase expression can provide decisive prognostic information in aul patients.
short-term variability of ventricular arrhythmia and rapid assessment of drug efficacy. statistical criteria for suppression and aggravation of ventricular arrhythmia were defined by means of 50 short-term drug tests performed in 24 patients. each patient's spontaneous variability (sv) was evaluated by linear regression analysis of hour-to-hour changes in ectopy during 24- to 48-hour holter monitoring. the response to a single oral dose of disopyramide, 300 mg, flecainide, 200 mg, and propafenone, 450 mg, was measured during a trial lasting 4 hours. lidocaine was administered intravenously in incremental doses of up to 4 mg/min and was evaluated over 3 hours. threshold values of ventricular arrhythmia corresponding to 95% confidence limits were calculated from baseline recordings and were used to ascertain the likelihood of a true drug effect. the minimum decrease in hourly ectopy indicating arrhythmia suppression averaged 90.9%, while an increase of at least 947% was required for a proarrhythmic effect. when these efficacy criteria were applied, 16 of 50 short-term tests revealed no drug effect. in contrast, when a 70% threshold derived from studies of daily variability was employed, only 7 of 50 trials were negative. thus individual determination of hourly arrhythmia variability yields more stringent criteria than extrapolation from day-to-day spontaneous variation.
rehabilitation in brain disorders. 1. basic sciences. this learning module highlights the basic sciences of brain disorders and their relevance to the rehabilitation process. it is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in brain disorders for the self-directed medical knowledge program study guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. the chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. this article contains essential information on the hierarchy and integration of cerebral neural processes, functional anatomy, and neurochemistry. it also highlights newer advances in brain plasticity and response to injury, at a cellular level and with reference to acute and secondary processes, which will likely be at the forefront of medical management and functional "damage control" in the near future. the learner is directed to articles 2, 3, and 4 in this chapter for supporting information.
implementation of cancer prevention guidelines in clinical practice. data from several sources, including consumer surveys, physician surveys, and medical record audits, indicate that consumers do not receive cancer screening tests as recommended by the national cancer institute, the american cancer society, and the u.s. preventive services task force. performance rates are consistently below published standards for all tests except pap tests. major reasons physicians do not perform the recommended tests include physician forgetfulness, disagreement with recommendations, lack of time, and patient refusal. physicians also tend to overestimate their own performance rates. barriers to screening test performance can be categorized into patient factors, physician factors, test factors, and health care delivery system factors. interventions, such as computerized reminder systems, physician audits with feedback, and patient education and reminders, can be effective in promoting performance of such screening. interventions that target both physician and patient may be particularly effective.
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome. we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage. each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia. none had hemimegalencephaly. we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients.
epitope mapping of human thyroglobulin. heterogeneous recognition by thyroid pathologic sera. thyroglobulin is the major ag of the thyroid gland involved in autoimmune pathologies. epitope mapping was carried out with a rabbit polyclonal immune serum against fusion proteins expressed in prokaryotic cells. after screening of an initial human thyroglobulin cdna library and subcloning of immunoreactive clones, seven epitopes were characterized and localized on the human thyroglobulin monomeric molecule. one was close to each extremity of the molecule, and five others were concentrated in the middle, covering a sixth of this 2748-amino-acid chain. the immunoreactivities of 18 autoimmune sera from different thyroid pathologies were tested against the seven previously characterized epitopes. those from hashimoto's thyroiditis were the most immunoreactive. immune responses were heterogeneous for sera from different pathologies as well as for those from the same pathology. the central epitopes and the near-c-terminal epitope, however, were the epitopes most often recognized by the immune sera. these findings show that some autoepitopes overlap accurately with some heteroepitopes characterized by a polyclonal immune serum directed against the mature protein.
esophageal contribution to chest pain in patients with coronary artery disease. we conducted a prospective study to determine the role of the esophagus in causing chest pain in patients with established cad on optimum therapy. thirty-two men with documented cad who complained of frequent and usually daily retrosternal chest pain were evaluated. following a standard esophageal manometry and acid perfusion test, simultaneous two-channel ambulatory holter monitor and esophageal ph record tests were performed for 24 hours. fifty-three episodes of chest pain were documented in 20 patients; 11 patients were free of pain. of the 20 patients who complained of chest pains, 17 (85 percent) demonstrated at least one episode of ppr, defined as a drop in distal esophageal ph to less than 4 within ten minutes before or after the onset chest pain. episodes of asymptomatic ger were common. the correlation of ppr with chest pain was 70 percent (37/53 episodes) and of ischemic ecg changes with chest pain 13 percent (7/53); in the remaining, there was no correlation with either. two patients demonstrated simultaneous ppr and ischemic ecg changes. seventeen esophageal motility abnormalities were observed in 14 patients (45 percent). it is our conclusion that esophageal disorders contribute to chest pain in patients with documented cad. in this group, ger plays a greater role than in those with normal coronary arteries. in addition, esophageal motility disorders are common in these patients. esophageal testing can be undertaken safely in these patients.
use of intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate in patients with prostatic carcinoma refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation. the patient presenting with severe bone pain after primary hormonal therapy, with vertebral collapse, or with uremia resulting from ureteric obstruction should be considered for intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate therapy. the urologist can expect early marked improvement in the patients' mobility and pain, with a reduction in analgesic requirements, from a single 7-day course of treatment. in addition, the drug is inexpensive and free of the side effects commonly associated with cytotoxic therapy. accurate monitoring of the response is possible with serum prostate-specific antigen measurements, which also enable further therapy to be planned efficiently.
calcium channel blockers in geriatric hypertension. though the calcium channel blockers have been used to treat angina pectoris for almost a decade, the long-acting forms of these agents that have become available in the last few years have made them practical for use as antihypertensive agents as well. they are becoming increasingly popular in this role, especially to treat elderly hypertensive patients. because they are vasodilators with a mild diuretic action, they are logical treatment choices for the majority of hypertensive patients who have increased peripheral vascular resistance. they offer the advantage of a dual benefit for hypertensive patients with angina, and they have no effect on carbohydrate or lipid metabolism. disadvantages include cost and a side effect profile that includes headaches, palpitations, ankle edema, and constipation.
selected neurologic complications of pregnancy. many neurologic disorders, such as eclampsia, pseudotumor cerebri, stroke, obstetric nerve palsies, subarachnoid hemorrhage, pituitary tumors, and choriocarcinoma, can develop in the pregnant patient. maternal mortality from eclampsia, which ranges from 0 to 14%, can be due to intracerebral hemorrhage, pulmonary edema, disseminated intravascular coagulation, abruptio placentae, or failure of the liver or kidneys. associated fetal mortality ranges from 10 to 28% and is directly related to decreased placental perfusion. pseudotumor cerebri can be associated with serious visual complications; thus, the therapeutic goal is to prevent loss of vision. the risk of stroke in the pregnant patient is 13 times the risk in the nonpregnant patient of the same age. the major causes of stroke in pregnant patients are arterial occlusion and cerebral venous thrombosis. lumbar disk prolapse is common in pregnant patients, and lumbosacral plexus injuries can occur during labor or delivery. in addition, peripheral nerve compression or entrapment syndromes are thought to be caused by the retention of fluid during pregnancy. the incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage during pregnancy is 1 in every 10,000 patients, a rate 5 times higher than in nonpregnant women. because of a proliferation of prolactin-secreting cells, the pituitary gland can enlarge dramatically during pregnancy, a change that can disclose a previously unknown tumor or cause a known pituitary tumor to become symptomatic. the incidence of choriocarcinoma is 1 in 50,000 full-term pregnancies but 1 in 30 molar pregnancies. this malignant tumor has a high rate of cerebral metastatic lesions. in addition to these disorders that develop during pregnancy, the pregnant state can affect numerous preexisting neurologic conditions, including epilepsy, headaches, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, spinal cord injury, and brain tumors. we discuss advice for patients with such conditions who wish to become pregnant, recommendations for medical and surgical management, and surgical considerations for neurologic complications during pregnancy.
the role of pain in the last year of life of older persons. a random sample of 200 decreased older community residents was studied with a focus on the role of pain in the last year of life. interviews with a surviving close person elicited retrospective reports. pain increased over the final year; one month before death 66% felt pain frequently or all of the time, substantially higher than a matched comparison group of living persons (24%). for both groups across the year, pain was associated with most measures of behavioral competence, perceived quality of life, and psychological well-being. hierarchical multiple regressions indicated that background and health variables explained 28% to 32% of the variance of pain over the year. controlling for background variables and health, pain contributed significantly to lowered happiness and to depression, but had no independent impact on hope and interest in the world. after controlling for physical health, the older old were judged to have less pain than the younger old.
localization of malignant melanoma using monoclonal antibodies. finding a screening test to evaluate patients with cancer for occult metastatic disease, as well as imaging all known disease, is a goal of research efforts. twenty-nine evaluable patients with deeply invasive (stage i), regional nodal (stage ii), or systemic (stage iii) melanoma underwent imaging by administration of a preparation of the antimelanoma antibody labeled with technetium 99m. scan results indicated that 28 of 32 confirmed metastatic sites were imaged with this technique (88% sensitivity). analysis of the individual positive sites revealed that nodal basins and visceral metastases accounted for the highest percentage of metastatic sites imaged, with 14 (88%) of 16 nodal basin metastases and all four visceral metastases being detected through imaging. occult nodal disease was detected in the iliac nodal chain in two of the 29 patients. the imaging of benign tumors and nodal basins not containing disease accounted for a confirmed false-positive rate of 21%. three (10%) of the 29 scan results were confirmed to be false-negative. in vivo tumor localization with monoclonal antibodies showed a sensitivity similar to that of other roentgenographic procedures for identifying metastatic disease and was useful in two of three patients in identifying occult iliac nodal disease, a region that is difficult to evaluate with physical examination and other imaging modalities.
biologic aggressiveness of palpable and nonpalpable prostate cancer: assessment with endosonography. the biologic aggressiveness of palpable versus nonpalpable prostate cancer was evaluated in 666 patients studied with endosonography over a 24-month period. biologic aggressiveness was defined by a combined histologic and grade-stage category score. in 314 patients suspected of having prostate cancer 328 biopsies were performed. carcinoma was detected in 99 patients, by means of both palpation and endosonography (n = 80), endosonography alone (n = 9), and palpation alone (n = 8); two cancers were not detected with either palpation or endosonography. all patients with normal results of digital examination had a combined grade-stage category score lower than 9. fifty-five of 69 patients (80%) with abnormal results of digital examination and available histologic data had a histologic score of 6 or higher; 38 of these patients (69%) had a combined grade-stage category score of 9 or higher. although the number of patients is small, these data suggest that nonpalpable cancers are biologically less aggressive than palpable ones and that the advantage of endosonography over palpation in detection of clinically significant cancers is limited.
intravenous administration of phosphorylated acid alpha-glucosidase leads to uptake of enzyme in heart and skeletal muscle of mice. the lysosomal storage disorder glycogenosis type ii is caused by acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency. in this study we have investigated the possible applicability of mannose 6-phosphate receptor-mediated enzyme replacement therapy to correct the enzyme deficiency in the most affected tissues. bovine testes acid alpha-glucosidase containing phosphorylated mannose residues was intravenously administered to mice and found to be taken up by heart (70% increase of activity) and skeletal muscle (43% increase); the major target organs. the uptake of nonphosphorylated human placenta acid alpha-glucosidase by heart and skeletal muscle appeared to be significantly less efficient, whereas uptake of dephosphorylated bovine testes enzyme was not detectable. the phosphorylated bovine testes acid alpha-glucosidase remained present in mouse skeletal muscle up to 9-15 d after administration, with a half-life of 2-4 d. besides being measured in skeletal muscle and heart, uptake of phosphorylated bovine testes and nonphosphorylated human placenta acid alpha-glucosidase was measured in several other organs, but not in brain. the increase of acid alpha-glucosidase activity was highest in liver and spleen. we concluded that application of mannose 6-phosphate receptor-mediated enzyme replacement therapy may offer new perspectives for treatment of glycogenesis type ii.
epidermoid tumors of the 4th ventricle: report of seven cases. epidermoid tumors occur very rarely in the 4th ventricle. we discuss the history, clinical course, and the surgical results for seven patients. one patient had a remittal of symptoms, probably due to the emergence of the tumor from the 4th ventricle into the cisterna magna. total removal of the capsule was possible only in the youngest patient. at present, four patients (mean follow-up, 6 years) enjoy good general and neurological health.
fluorometric determination of pseudocholinesterase activity in postmortem blood samples. a fluorometric assay using 3-(p-hydroxyphenyl) propionic acid (hppa) was conducted to determine the activity of pseudocholinesterase (che) [enzyme commission (ec) no. 3.1.1.8] in postmortem blood samples so as to test for organophosphate poisoning. by the enzymatic reaction of che, its substrate, benzoylcholine, produces choline, which is oxidized by choline oxidase to generate hydrogen peroxide. hppa is oxidized by hydrogen peroxide and peroxidase to become the fluorogenic dimer whose concentration is measured fluorometrically at an excitation emission wavelength of 320 nm and an elimination emission wavelength of 404 nm. the selectivity and sensitivity of the present method were found to be superior to those of conventional ph and spectrophotometric methods.
deep vein obstruction and leg swelling caused by femoral ganglion. we present a case of a rare ganglion cyst originating from the hip joint and compressing the common femoral vein producing signs and symptoms that mimicked a deep vein thrombosis. excision of the mass promptly restored normal venous return. this condition has not been previously reported in the english-language medical literature.
the long-term effectiveness of hysteroscopic treatment of menorrhagia and leiomyomas. one hundred fifty-six of 177 patients admitted to the st. luke's/roosevelt hospital center between november 1973 and november 1988 for hysteroscopic treatment of menorrhagia and/or uterine leiomyomas were followed for long-term complications and necessity for repeat surgery. ninety-four patients underwent submucous resection alone and 62 patients underwent endometrial ablation with or without submucous resection. among the submucous-resection group, 24.5% reported late postoperative problems and 15.9% underwent further surgery. after 9 years of followup, 83.9% of the patients had not required further surgery. among the ablation group, 22.5% experienced recurrence of increased bleeding and 8.1% had another surgical procedure. after 6 years of follow-up, 91.3% of the patients had not required further surgery. twenty-one patients became pregnant after submucous resection, with 18 infants delivered. no patients who underwent endometrial ablation became pregnant. this modality of treatment appears to be effective over the long term, although effectiveness appears to diminish with time.
neonatal calves develop airflow limitation due to chronic hypobaric hypoxia. neonates and infants presenting with pulmonary hypertension and chronic hypoxia often exhibit airway obstruction. to investigate this association, we utilized a system in which neonatal calves are exposed to chronic hypobaric hypoxia and develop severe pulmonary hypertension. for the present study, one of each pair of six age-matched pairs of neonatal calves was continuously exposed to hypobaric hypoxia at 4,500 m (ch); the other remained at 1,500 m. at 2 wk of age, mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mpap), dynamic lung compliance (cdyn), resistance (rl), and static respiratory system compliance (crs) were measured at 4,500 m in both ch and control calves exposed acutely to hypoxia (c). these measurements were repeated after cumulative administrations of nebulized methacholine (mch). tissues were removed for histological examination and assessment of bronchial ring contractility to mch and kcl. after 2 wk of hypobaric hypoxia, mpap (c 35 +/- 1.7 vs. ch 120 +/- 7 mmhg, p less than 0.001) and rl (c 2.64 +/- 0.16 vs ch 4.99 +/- 0.47 cmh2o.l-1s, p less than 0.001) increased. cdyn (c 0.100 +/- 0.01 vs. ch 0.082 +/- 0.007 l/cmh2o) and crs (ch 0.46 +/- 0.003 vs. c 0.59 +/- 0.009 l/cmh2o) were not significantly different. compared with airways of c calves, airways of ch animals did not exhibit in vivo or in vitro mch hyperresponsiveness; however, in vitro contractility to kcl of airways from ch animals was significantly increased. histologically, airways from the ch calves showed increases in airway fibrous tissue and smooth muscle.
neonatal diarrhea at a maternity hospital in rangoon between 1981 and 1986, 1,540 infants born at the central women's hospital in rangoon were transferred to the sick baby unit because of diarrhea (15.4 per 1,000 live births). rates among cesarean infants were five times as high as those of infants born vaginally (51.0 and 10.3 per 1000 live births, respectively). one hundred eighty-four of the infants with diarrhea died (case fatality rate = 12 percent). we conclude that neonatal diarrhea is endemic in this large maternity hospital in burma, and that control efforts should be targeted especially to cesarean and low birthweight infants.
puppet-like syndrome of angelman: a pathologic and neurochemical study. we present the first pathologic descriptions of the puppet-like syndrome of angelman based on autopsy studies of a 21-year-old woman. the noteworthy findings were a small brain with mild cerebral atrophy but normal gyral development. there was marked cerebellar atrophy with loss of purkinje and granule cells and extensive bergmann's gliosis. study of dendrite morphology using golgi impregnations of the visual cortex revealed a prominent decrease in dendritic arborization of layer 3 and layer 5 pyramidal neurons. quantitative golgi analysis also revealed a significant decrease in the numbers of dendritic spines in apical layer 3 dendrites and both apical and basal layer 5 dendrites. neurochemical studies of frozen brain tissue demonstrated markedly reduced gamma-aminobutyric acid content in the cerebellar cortex, as well as elevated glutamate content in the frontal and occipital cortices. although there are no definite morphologic correlates of many of the clinical signs, the pronounced dendritic pathology and neurochemical abnormalities in cerebral cortex may provide a physiologic basis for mental retardation.
rash after treatment with anistreplase. a palpable purpura developed on the legs and lower abdomen of a woman of 54 five days after she was treated with anistreplase anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (apsac) for an acute myocardial infarction. histological examination of a skin biopsy specimen taken 6 days after treatment showed leucocytoclastic vasculitis. the rash resolved within two weeks and there were no other complications.
effects of indomethacin on hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia. a patient had liver cirrhosis associated with marked hypoxemia. with administration of indomethacin (75 mg/day for six days), pao2 was elevated up to 50 mm hg from 44 mm hg. at that time, dynamic pulmonary perfusion imaging revealed a plateau time course curve of maa uptake in the lungs, as compared with findings obtained during the state of severe hypoxemia without indomethacin. these observations suggest that part of hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia is a functional vasodilatation that is presumably modulated by vasoactive substances, such as prostaglandins and/or other eicosanoids.
detection of coxsackievirus b3 rna in myocardial tissues by the polymerase chain reaction. coxsackievirus b3 is a possible etiologic agent in some forms of myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. a method for the detection of coxsackievirus b3 rna was developed using the polymerase chain reaction based on the amplification of a cdna copy of the positive-strand viral rna. the fidelity of the method was established in two murine models for coxsackie b3 myocarditis. all cardiac specimens with adequate rna for study from coxsackie b3-infected mice contained detectable viral rna, in contrast to none of control specimens from noninfected mice. the sensitivity of the technique was established at approximately 1 to 100 plaque-forming units of virus per gram of tissue, and the specificity was established as limited to the coxsackievirus b3 serotype among nine viruses tested. in patients with myocarditis, one of five specimens contained detectable viral rna, whereas none of 11 specimens from patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or 21 myocardial specimens from patients with a wide variety of other cardiac disorders contained detectable coxsackie b3 viral rna. the results show that the polymerase chain reaction is a useful means for detecting coxsackie viral rna and its application should help in the evaluation of hypotheses concerning the infectious etiology of human myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
a new single catheter technique for simultaneous measurement of action potential duration and refractory period in vivo. in vivo correlations of action potential duration measured by a monophasic action potential catheter and effective refractory period measured by a separate pacing catheter have been poor, probably because of the known variability of both action potential duration and effective refractory period between different ventricular sites. in this study, a new quadripolar contact electrode catheter designed for simultaneous pacing and monophasic action potential recording at closely adjacent sites (2 mm separation between recording electrodes and pacing electrodes) was tested in five closed chest dogs and four patients. dog studies: pacing thresholds were extremely low, ranging from 0.02 to 0.25 ma (mean +/- sd 0.099 +/- 0.051, n = 36) and were stable over time (less than 20% increase during 1 h of continuous pacing). because of the close proximity of pacing and recording electrodes, the pacing artifact nearly coincided with the monophasic action potential upstroke. because of the low pacing threshold, however, pacing artifacts were small (33 +/- 17% of the monophasic action potential amplitude at twice diastolic threshold strength) and did not affect the duration or configuration of the simultaneously recorded monophasic action potential. the short stimulus response time and the undisturbed monophasic action potential signal fidelity during pacing allowed precise simultaneous measurements of action potential duration and effective refractory period at the same endocardial site.
oscillometric finger blood pressure versus brachial auscultative blood pressure recording. in this study, a recently marketed proprietary finger blood pressure monitor, the marshall, astro f-88, was compared with the standard auscultative brachial mercury sphygmomanometer on 125 subjects. measurements were undertaken according to the standards set by the american heart association. sensitivity of the finger blood pressure measurement was 76% for systolic and 75% for diastolic blood pressure in diagnosis of high blood pressure (systolic greater than 140 mm hg and diastolic greater than 90 mm hg). specificity was 86% for systolic and 82% for diastolic blood pressure. positive predictive values were 58% for systolic and 38% for diastolic blood pressure in the study population in which prevalence of hypertension was 12%. the correlation coefficient (pearson) for systolic values between devices was 0.76 (p less than .0001) and 0.57 (p less than .0001) for diastolic pressure. values obtained by the finger monitor were found to be higher than those obtained by the mercury sphygmomanometer. mean differences and standard deviations (paired t test) for systolic and diastolic pressures between the two devices were 2.3 +/- 14.9 mm hg (p less than .08) and 2.9 +/- 14.5 mm hg (p less than .02), respectively. these values are not in accordance with the proposed national standards because only 48% of the systolic and 37% of the diastolic blood pressure measurements were within 5 mm hg of the mercury sphygmomanometer measurements. therefore, although these differences may well be due to different techniques of monitoring employed by the devices, this device is not recommended for evaluation of blood pressure.
necrotizing tracheobronchitis: complication of mechanical ventilation in an adult. a 51-year-old woman had localized interstitial pneumonia that rapidly progressed to involve all lung fields. after 9 days of conventional mechanical ventilation, pneumothorax developed in the presence of an obstruction of the right main bronchus. bronchoscopy and endobronchial biopsies revealed ntb involving the tracheobronchial tree distal to the tip of the endotracheal tube, with complete obstruction of the right main bronchus by hard, eschar-like material. tracheal mucosa proximal to the tip of the endotracheal tube was normal. subsequent bronchoscopy, 20 days later, showed marked resolution of ntb. though a frequent complication of mechanical ventilation in the neonate, ntb as a complication of conventional mechanical ventilation has not previously been recognized in an adult. necrotizing tracheobronchitis should be suspected in adults who have had mechanical ventilation and who are experiencing ventilatory difficulties, after routine problems have been treated or excluded.
aromatase activity of human granulosa cells in patients with polycystic ovaries treated with dexamethasone. the effect of dexamethasone (dex) (9 alpha-fluro-16 alpha-methyl prednisolone) on secretion of steroids by human granulosa luteinized cells was studied by culturing cells from mature follicles of women with polycystic ovarian disease and treated for infertility in the in vitro fertilization program. patients were treated with dex 0.5 mg/d until the day of human chorionic gonadotropin administration. the cells were cultured for 24 hours in the presence of androstenedione (10(-7)m). after incubating for 24 hours, the medium was replaced and the cells were incubated for an additional 24 hours. the medium was then harvested and assayed for estradiol (e2) and progesterone (p). results were compared with those of a control group who was not treated with dex. estradiol production by cells was significantly lower in the study group treated with dex. progesterone production was not influenced by dex. follicular fluid levels, e2, and androgens did not vary with dex treatment, whereas cortisol levels markedly decreased and p levels increased with the treatment. these findings suggest that glucocorticosteroids can directly influence granulosa luteinized cell function.
appendectomy in primary and secondary staging operations for ovarian malignancy. appendectomy was performed at primary or secondary staging operations in 100 patients with ovarian malignancies. of 80 patients who underwent appendectomy at the time of their primary surgery, 25 (31.2%) had appendiceal metastases. among 47 patients who were believed to have disease limited to the pelvis at the time of surgery--stage i (n = 34), ii (n = 7), iiia (n = 5), and those designated stage iiic solely on the basis of microscopic para-aortic nodal metastasis (n = 1)--the appendix was involved with disease in only two patients (4.3%). however, among 33 patients with advanced disease--stage iiib (n = 6), iiic except those designated iiic solely on the basis of microscopic paraaortic nodal metastasis (n = 19), and iv (n = 8)--the appendix was involved with disease in 23 patients (69.7%) (p less than .001). poorly differentiated tumors and serous histologic cell types more frequently metastasized to the appendix (64, 15, 6, and 8% for grades 3, 2, and 1 and borderline histology, respectively; p less than .001; and 48, 13, and 8% for serous, endometrioid, and mucinous; p less than .001). of 20 patients who underwent appendectomy at their secondary staging procedure, two had metastases. metastatic disease in the appendix was microscopic in nine of 27 patients. because the frequency of appendiceal metastasis is similar to that of other metastatic sites in stages i and ii ovarian cancer, it should be removed at primary staging procedures. appendectomy should also be performed in patients with advanced ovarian malignancies if it contributes to cytoreduction or at the time of secondary staging procedures.
electrophysiology and colour perimetry in dominant infantile optic atrophy. a typical finding in dominant infantile optic atrophy (dioa) is the variation of the phenotypic expression of the dioa gene even within one family. it is of special interest for genetic consultation to evaluate an examination method for detecting subclinically involved patients. seven patients of two families were examined. three of them had the typical symptoms of dioa: reduced visual acuity, tritan defect, temporal pallor of both optic discs, and a relative central scotoma for white test spots. in visual evoked cortical potentials (vecp) the amplitudes were reduced, and in one patient the latencies were slightly delayed and two patients considerably so. the amplitude of the negative component of the perg was markedly reduced, while the positive component was normal. in the remaining four family members normal retinal and cortical responses were recorded under standard conditions and visual fields and colour vision (fm 100 hue) were also normal. however, static perimetry with blue test spots showed in two family members enlarged central scotomas, thus proving that they had subclinical dioa.
distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma: an immuno-histochemical approach using a panel of monoclonal antibodies. a panel of six monoclonal antibodies (mabs) was employed to evaluate antigen expression in pulmonary adenocarcinomas and mesotheliomas. monoclonal anti-human milk fat globulin (hmfg-2), anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (np-2), anti-epithelial membrane antigen (ema), anti-cytokeratin (pkk-1), anti-tumor-associated antigen 72 (b72.3), and anti-human myelomonocytic antigen (leu m-1) antibodies were used to localize their respective antigens in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumors by using the avidin-biotin-complex immunoperoxidase technique. in all, 28 mesotheliomas obtained from ohio state university anatomic pathology files and from a southwest oncology group (swog) protocol were compared to 22 pulmonary adenocarcinomas by using this mab panel. none of the mesotheliomas demonstrated positive staining with mabs np-2 (anti-cea) or leu m-1. however, 95% (21/22) of adenocarcinomas stained with one of these two antibodies. although neither of these two mabs stained all adenocarcinomas, each antibody demonstrated positive immunostaining in more than 90% of the adenocarcinomas studied. therefore, mabs np-2 and leu m-1 are, individually, quite useful for distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma. however, in our study, no single mab could be used to distinguish these two tumor types in every case. mab b72.3 stained 91% (20/21) adenocarcinomas but also stained 7% (2/28) of mesotheliomas. mab hmfg-2 reacted positively with 95% of adenocarcinomas, but also stained 39% of the mesotheliomas, usually in a membranous pattern. mabs ema and pkk-1 were not found useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma. we conclude that mabs leu m-1 and np-2 were both useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma in that positive staining was demonstrated in adenocarcinomas and not mesotheliomas.
one-year outcome after cerebral infarction in whites, blacks, and hispanics. little is known about outcome after cerebral infarction for different ethnic groups. of 590 stroke patients hospitalized from 1983 to 1986 at the neurological institute, cerebral infarction over age 39 years occurred in 135 whites, 177 blacks, and 82 hispanics. outcome after cerebral infarction differed by ethnicity. the 1-month mortality rate was similar in whites and blacks and least in hispanics. whites had a slightly greater risk of recurrent stroke or death than blacks or hispanics until 6 months after infarction, when their risk stabilized, while the risk in blacks and hispanics continued to rise for the entire year of follow-up. by 1 year, the rate of recurrent stroke or death was 34.8 +/- 4.2% in whites, 31.1 +/- 3.6% in blacks, and 21.4 +/- 4.8% in hispanics (p = 0.04). differences were found in the distribution of various stroke risk factors in the three ethnic groups. a cox proportional hazards model demonstrated that the ethnic differences in stroke risk factors and infarct subtype were responsible for the ethnic differences in outcome. an abnormal first electrocardiogram was a risk factor for stroke recurrence or death in all three ethnic groups, while a nonlacunar infarct subtype and a history of diabetes were significant only in hispanics. understanding the associations of stroke determinants with ethnicity may lead to more focused secondary prevention of recurrent stroke.
fine surface structure of an intraspinal neurenteric cyst: a scanning and transmission electron microscopy study. the case of an 11-year-old boy with an intraspinal neurenteric cyst, which recurred 8 years and 3 months after surgery, is presented. scanning and transmission electron microscopy of the cyst epithelium revealed marked resemblance to that of the respiratory tract, despite the presence of numerous goblet cells mimicking intestine on light microscopy study. detailed ultrastructural findings are described.
endoscopic cholangiopancreatography in hepatic clonorchiasis--a follow-up study. cholangiographic changes of the biliary system in 16 patients with proven hepatic clonorchiasis, diagnosed by positive stool or bile ova isolates, were studied. all patients presented with epigastric pain. other symptoms included jaundice in 31% (5 of 16) and fever in 12.5% (2 of 16). praziquantel given at 25 mg/kg for three doses in 1 day were administered. three consecutive stool tests were performed 3 months after treatment and were negative in 87.5% (14 of 16). ercp studies were repeated at a mean interval of 31.6 months (range, 8 to 69 months). measurements of the bile ducts on retrograde cholangiograms before and after treatment were compared using the paired student's t test. filling defects and blunting of the terminal bile ducts seen on the initial cholangiogram, interpreted as the presence of adult worms, disappeared after treatment. however, there was no significant change between pre- and post-treatment measurement of bile duct caliber. bile duct dilation, irregularities, and ductal proliferation persisted despite eradication of the parasite.
the technicon h6000 analyzer discriminates chronic lymphocytic leukemia from other b-cell leukemias through automatic assessment of large unstained cells. the separation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of b-cell origin from other chronic b-cell leukemias is subjective, being largely based on the morphologic features of the lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood. the percentage of large unstained cells determined with a technicon h6000 analyzer (an automated blood cell differential analyzer, technicon instruments corp, tarrytown, ny) was used as a cell volume variable in an investigation of 70 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of b-cell origin and of other chronic b-cell leukemias. the significant degree of correlation between the percentage of large unstained cells and morphoimmunophenotypic diagnosis, although obtained for a relatively small number of cases, suggests that this method of cell volume analysis can be used to improve diagnostic reproducibility in chronic b-cell leukemia.
altered expression of the retinoblastoma gene product in human sarcomas. background. the retinoblastoma-susceptibility (rb) gene is a prototype tumor-suppressor gene originally isolated from patients with heritable retinoblastoma. this gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein whose expression is altered in several types of human tumors. methods. we studied the expression of the rb protein in 44 primary and 12 metastatic high-grade human sarcomas by means of immunohistochemical methods and western blotting. computerized image analysis was used to quantify the level of rb gene product in individual tumor cells. the expression of the rb gene was then correlated with clinical outcome in the patients with primary tumors. results. of the 44 patients with primary sarcomas, 13 (30 percent) had tumors with normal, homogeneous expression of the rb protein in essentially all tumor cells. thirty-one patients with primary tumors (70 percent) had altered rb expression; in 18 (40 percent) the rb protein was heterogeneously expressed, and in 13 (30 percent) it was detected in fewer than 20 percent of the tumor cells. all 12 of the patients with metastatic sarcomas had altered expression of the rb protein. when the findings in the patients with primary tumors were correlated with clinical outcome, survival was found to be significantly increased in the patients whose tumors had homogeneous rb expression, as compared with those with either heterogeneous expression (p = 0.026) or no expression (p = 0.012). conclusions. tumors in which the expression of rb gene product was decreased were more aggressive than tumors in which this protein was expressed by nearly all cells. the rb gene product may be an important prognostic variable in patients with these tumors.
a comparison of midazolam with and without nalbuphine for intravenous sedation. the introduction of nalbuphine to intravenous sedation with midazolam added little to the quality of sedation for short operative procedures. there was a greater tendency for patients who received nalbuphine and midazolam to sleep in the afternoon after treatment compared with those who received only midazolam. significantly more patients had nausea and vomiting in the midazolam/nalbuphine group than did patients in the midazolam-only group.
the tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland. comparison with the common form of papillary carcinoma by dna and morphometric analysis. the tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid manifests a more aggressive behavior than the usual form of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. morphometric analysis of nuclear features and dna analysis may yield information predictive of aggressive behavior. accordingly, the dna content and morphometric features of the neoplastic cells of the tall cell variant were measured and compared with measurements obtained from neoplastic cells of the usual form of papillary carcinoma. six of the 11 tall cell neoplasms were aneuploid, as were four of the eight usual papillary neoplasms. although benign cells were separated from malignant cells in each case, differences between tall and usual papillary carcinoma cells were not observed regarding dna content, chromatin texture, or nuclear size and shape. differences in the clinical behavior of these neoplasms will likely need to be explained on the basis of other characteristics.
the risk of lymph node metastasis in colorectal polyps with invasive adenocarcinoma. one hundred fifty-one patients with colorectal polyps containing invasive adenocarcinoma treated by resection were studied to determine the incidence of lymph node metastasis and whether lymph node metastasis was related to the depth of invasion. other variables evaluated included size and configuration of the polyp, grade of adenocarcinoma, presence or absence of lymphovascular invasion, and degree of differentiation. in patients with sessile polyps, the incidence of lymph node metastasis was 10 percent. eighty percent of these lesions had lymphovascular invasion. for pedunculated polyps, the overall incidence of lymph node metastasis was 6 percent. however, there was no incidence of lymph node metastasis when the depth of invasion was limited to the head, neck, and stalk of the polyp (levels 1, 2, and 3). only when the depth of invasion reached to the base of the stalk (level 4) was the risk of lymph node metastasis high (27 percent). the other risk factors were not associated with lymph node metastasis. we concluded that the most significant risk factor for lymph node metastasis in patients with invasive carcinoma in a polyp was invasion into the submucosa of the bowel wall (level 4).
anaplastic large cell (ki-1) lymphoma with histiocytic phenotype simulating carcinoma. histiocytic and epithelial cell types share many cytomorphologic and functional characteristics; it is predictable, therefore, that corresponding malignancies might be difficult to distinguish. described is the case of a 52-year-old woman in whom disseminated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma simulated carcinomatosis by conventional morphologic criteria. evidence of histiocytic differentiation was derived from immunocytochemical, fine structural, and genetic probe analyses. the diagnosis of histiocytic neoplasia is discussed in relation to categories previously termed malignant histiocytosis, "ki-1" lymphoma, and regressing atypical histiocytosis, and comparisons are made with animal tumor models.
evoked potentials in assessment and follow-up of patients with wilson's disease. treatment of 9 patients with wilson's disease was prospectively studied with evoked potentials and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). oral penicillamine therapy led to a decrease in auditory brainstem (abp) and somatosensory (sep) conduction times in 6 and 4 neurologically symptomatic patients, respectively. abp and sep were normal in 3 other symptom-free patients. mri showed cerebral lesions in 4 of 7 patients. quantified indices of brain atrophy were unaffected by treatment. abp and sep may reveal a reversible component of the disease that cannot be detected by mri, and may be a more sensitive measure of treatment efficacy.
a new dna marker (d10s94) very tightly linked to the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a (men2a) locus. combined somatic cell hybrid and linkage studies between d10s94 and five pericentromeric loci (fnrb, d10z1, men2a, rbp3, and d10s15) have localized the new dna sequence pcl1/a1s-6-c23 at d10s94 to 10q11.2. no recombinants were observed between d10s94 and d10z1 or men2a. d10s94 maps in proximal 10q11.2 very near to men2a. there are three possible orders for the six loci that we investigated from the centromeric region of chromosome 10. at present the genetic data do not allow us to order men2a with respect to d10z1 and d10s94. the three possible orders are fnrb-d10z1-d10s94-men2a-rbp3-d10s15, fnrb-d10z1-men2a-d10s94-rbp3-d10s15, and fnrb-men2a-d10z1-d10s94-rbp3-d10s15. in view of the fact that no recombinants between d10s94 and men2a or between d10s94 and d10z1 were observed, the combined haplotypes formed from rflps and d10z1 and d10s94 will increase the informativeness and accuracy of genotype prediction for at-risk members of the families having the men 2a syndrome, particularly when the affected parent is female. the localization of d10s94 with respect to men2a will prove valuable in experiments directed toward cloning the men2a locus.
local infectious complications following large joint replacement in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate versus those not treated with methotrexate. we performed a 10-year retrospective analysis of the frequency of local postoperative infectious complications in methotrexate (mtx)-treated rheumatoid arthritis patients who underwent total joint arthroplasty. sixty patients, who had a total of 92 joint arthroplasties, were receiving mtx. a comparison group of 61 patients with a combined total of 110 total joint arthroplasties were not receiving mtx. the 2 groups were compared for the occurrence of local postoperative infectious complications and poor wound healing. eight patients in the mtx group experienced a total of 8 complications (8.7% of procedures). in comparison, 5 patients in the non-mtx group experienced a total of 6 complications (5.5% of procedures), a difference that was not statistically significant (chi 2 = 0.816, p = 0.366). statistical analysis of many other variables revealed none that could be identified as risk factors for postoperative complications. these results suggest that treatment in the perioperative period with weekly low-dose pulse mtx does not increase the risk of local postoperative infectious complications or poor wound healing in rheumatoid arthritis patients who undergo total joint arthroplasty.
the safety of low-dose prednisone before and immediately after heart-lung transplantation. preoperative steroid use has been considered a contraindication to heart-lung as well as lung transplantation. moreover, most centers delay prednisone administration until 2 to 3 weeks postoperatively until airway healing is secure. we have performed 19 heart-lung transplantations and four single-lung transplantations since 1983. five recipients (4 heart-lung, 1 single lung) had received prednisone, 5 to 40 mg daily, for 2 to 10 years preoperatively. all recipients were administered prednisone, 0.5 mg/kg daily, starting on postoperative day 1, with a taper to 0.2 mg/kg daily by 4 weeks. minnesota antilymphocyte globulin (for 10 days), cyclosporine, and azathioprine were also employed. bronchoscopy, lavage, and transbronchial biopsies were performed every 2 weeks for 3 months postoperatively. no patient had a serious airway complication; 2 heart-lung recipients, not on prednisone preoperatively, had a minor tracheal slough detected on bronchoscopy that resolved spontaneously. actuarial survival after heart-lung transplantation is 84% +/- 8% and 69% +/- 16% at 1 year and 2 years, respectively. we conclude that prednisone commencing at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg daily from the first postoperative day is a safe practice after heart-lung transplantation. the long-term use of low-dose prednisone before heart-lung transplantation does not preclude normal tracheal healing. the safety of prednisone before and immediately after single-lung transplantation awaits confirmation by further experience.
parental age in sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma. of 104 children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma born between 1945 and 1970, we studied the age of their parents at the birth and compared this age with the mean age of parents at the birth of their children during the same period in the netherlands. the mean age of fathers at the birth of their children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma (33.7 years) was significantly higher than the mean age of fathers at the birth of their children in the general population (32.5 years) (p less than .05, one sided). similarly, the mean age of mothers at the birth of their children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma (31.2 years) was significantly higher than the mean age of mothers at the birth of their children in the general population (29.5 years) (p less than .05, one sided). we further analyzed this parental age factor by measuring the relative risk of age groups and comparing the incidence of sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma in the various parental age groups with the incidence of sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma in the total population. mothers 35 years of age or older had a relative risk of 1.7 to have a child with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma compared with mothers in the population in general (p = .006, one sided). similarly, fathers 50 years of age or older had a relative risk of 5.0 to have a child with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma compared with fathers in the population in general (p = .04, one sided). no parental age effect was found in children with nonhereditary retinoblastoma. we conclude that a high paternal and a high maternal age are significant risk factors for sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma.
hemodynamic consequences of carotid-carotid bypass for innominate artery stenosis. the carotid-carotid cervical bypass is one surgical option for symptomatic atherosclerotic lesions of the innominate artery. controversy exists regarding the necessity of surgically excluding the innominate plaque from the cerebral circuit. a canine study was instituted to characterize the hemodynamic alterations that occur in the right common carotid artery proximal to the bypass graft, termed the critical segment. the direction of flow in the critical segment determines whether emboli originating in the innominate may be propelled cranially despite a patent bypass graft. six mongrel dogs underwent placement of an autogenous arterial crossover graft as a carotid-carotid bypass. a stenosis of the innominate artery was quantitatively altered, and an electromagnetic flowmeter measured the magnitude and direction of flow in the critical segment at three levels of diameter reduction in the innominate artery. for low-grade stenoses, flow in the critical segment was always prograde. for high-grade stenoses, the flow was always reversed. stenoses between 57% and 67% yielded flow values of 10 +/- 24 ml/min, and it was in this range that mean flow reversal was found to occur. even when the mean flow was near zero in the critical segment, flow was not stagnant but oscillated in antegrade and retrograde directions throughout the cardiac cycle. these data indicate that a carotid-carotid bypass causes complete flow reversal in the critical segment when there is high-grade stenosis in the innominate artery. theoretical analysis of the hemodynamic circuit indicated that arm exercise would augment retrograde flow in the critical segment.
the "all-autogenous" tissue policy for infrainguinal reconstruction questioned. in 33% of patients referred for infrainguinal reconstruction for limb-threatening ischemia (mean preoperative ankle-arm index [aai] = 0.26), no suitable autogenous reconstruction was possible. in 40% of cases, intraoperative pre-bypass contrast arteriography was necessary to identify a graftable tibial or pedal artery. the results of polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe) and autogenous bypasses were compared after 1 to 3 years. after 1 year, patency was 85% and 67% for autogenous and ptfe bypasses, respectively. limb salvage was 90% for autogenous bypass and 70% for ptfe bypass. cumulative patency rates at 3 years were 80% for autogenous and 57% for ptfe grafts. graft surveillance with duplex scanning and aai was valuable in detecting failing grafts. for both types of reconstruction, secondary procedures were required to maintain patency. we attribute the excellent results with ptfe in part to long-term aspirin and warfarin therapy. in cases of combined superficial femoral and severe infra-popliteal occlusive disease, ptfe bypass is an excellent alternative when no autogenous conduit is available.
drug response of head and neck tumors in native-state histoculture. we describe a chemosensitivity testing of head and neck tumors, in which a native-state histoculture, ie, a three-dimensional culture system that maintains important in vivo properties, including tissue architecture, was used. fifteen specimens of head and neck tumors were evaluated for sensitivity to the following drugs: cisplatin (ddp) at concentrations of 1.5, 15, and 37.5 micrograms/ml; fluorouracil at concentrations of 4.0, 40, and 100 micrograms/ml; and combinations of cisplatin and fluorouracil in corresponding doses. growth and measurement of drug responses were successfully completed in 10 specimens (five others were contaminated, four of them prior to instituting rigorous antibiotic washes). the results indicated cisplatin sensitivity in five of 10 patients; fluorouracil sensitivity in four of 10 patients; and fluorouracil-cisplatin sensitivity in seven of eight patients. our preliminary results indicate that the native-state histoculture technique is feasible to test chemosensitivity of head and neck tumors.
spinal accessory nerve palsy: an unusual complication of coronary artery bypass the neurologic complications of coronary artery bypass surgery have been well documented, with a reported incidence of 61% in one large study. most injuries to the peripheral nervous system involve the brachial plexus. we report the first case of a spinal accessory nerve lesion after coronary bypass surgery. the patient presented with progressive right shoulder weakness. electrodiagnostic studies revealed a partial lesion of the right spinal accessory nerve. physical therapy, including strengthening, range of motion, and electric stimulation to the right shoulder, was prescribed to assist recovery of strength and function. repeat electrodiagnostic studies confirmed nerve regeneration. prompt recognition of spinal accessory nerve damage after coronary bypass surgery is essential. early rehabilitation will improve the chances of a better functional outcome.
hepatic vascular disease and portal hypertension in polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia: a clinicopathological study of 145 patients examined at autopsy. the pathogenesis of portal hypertension arising in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been difficult to understand because liver biopsy findings often show minimal changes. it has been suggested that increased splenic blood flow, hepatic infiltration with hematopoietic cells or sinusoidal fibrosis may be important. we have reviewed the autopsy findings and clinical histories of 97 patients with polycythemia vera and 48 patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia collected from three institutions and from the polycythemia vera study group. cirrhosis was present in seven patients, one of whom had bleeding varices. esophageal varices were present clinically in 10 patients without cirrhosis (seven polycythemia and three agnogenic myeloid metaplasia). all of these patients had lesions in small or medium-sized portal veins and four had stenosis of the extrahepatic portal vein with histology compatible with organized thrombi. nodular regenerative hyperplasia occurred in 14.6% and correlated closely with the presence of portal vein lesions. thirty patients had greater than 500 ml of ascites, seven of these patients also had varices and six of them had hepatic vein thrombosis. ascites also correlated with hepatic vein disease confined to small intrahepatic branches. no correlation was seen between hepatic hematopoietic infiltration and signs of portal hypertension. we conclude that esophageal varices are common and are almost always associated with portal vein lesions visible by light microscopy. these portal vein lesions, and the secondary effects of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and portal hypertension, are most likely a result of portal vein thrombosis in patients with myeloproliferative disorders.
penetrating aortic ulcers: diagnosis with mr imaging. the authors studied seven patients with penetrating aortic ulcers with use of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging. all patients were evaluated for acute chest symptoms, and the presence of aortic ulcers was confirmed by means of angiography in all seven patients. five patients also underwent computed tomography (ct). three patients underwent surgical repair of the thoracic aorta. mr findings included intramural hematoma and focal aortic wall ulceration in four patients, focal ulceration in one, focal intramural hematoma in one, and focal intramural hematoma with rupture in one. the diagnosis of intramural hematoma was made by the detection of increased signal intensity on t1- and t2-weighted mr images. mr imaging was superior to angiography in depicting the extent of intramural thrombus, although one ulceration diagnosed at angiography was missed at mr imaging. mr imaging was superior to ct in differentiating acute intramural hematoma from atherosclerotic plaque and chronic intraluminal thrombus, although it did not depict displaced intimal calcification in one patient with extensive intramural hematoma.
interventional gallbladder procedures. interventional radiologic procedures in the gallbladder are influencing both the diagnosis and therapy of many gallbladder disorders. current diagnostic and therapeutic percutaneous techniques offer important alternatives for their management. this article highlights the spectrum of interventional radiologic techniques available for gallbladder diseases.
relation of helicobacter pylori to the human gastric mucosa in chronic gastritis of the antrum. the spatial relations between bacteria and the affected tissues can indicate pathogenic mechanisms. this study was undertaken to define the spatial relation of helicobacter pylori to the human gastric mucosa. antibodies against gastric mucus and ruthenium red were used to stabilise the glycoprotein structure of the mucus and glycocalyces in antral biopsy specimens from eight patients infected with h pylori. the location of organisms and ultrastructural features were assessed using systematic scanning and transmission electron microscopy: 92 (2)% (mean (se] of h pylori were in the pit mucus, and 7 (3)% were in the surface mucus; 60 (12)% of h pylori were close to epithelial cells, with only 5 (2)% located near the epithelial intercellular junctions. fine filamentous strands extended between organisms and nearby epithelial cells, with few organisms in membrane to membrane contact. h pylori were not observed between, beneath, or within cells of the gastric mucosa. the preferred location of h pylori in the gastric antrum is within the pit mucus close to the epithelial cell surface, with no evidence that they have a direct toxic effect on the mucosa.
role of upper gastrointestinal investigations in a screening study for colorectal neoplasia. should patients with positive faecal occult blood screening tests who are free of colorectal neoplasia undergo upper gastrointestinal investigation? altogether 16,985 faecal occult blood tests were completed in a group of 18,818 asymptomatic patients (45-75 years) offered screening at two yearly intervals. a total of 447 (2.6%) were positive and underwent large bowel investigations. no neoplastic disease was identified in 283 (63%) of them. fourteen (5%) also underwent gastroscopy for upper gastrointestinal symptoms, benign conditions were identified in five and a gastric carcinoma in one. no further investigations were instituted in the remaining 269 subjects who have now been followed up for a median period of 5 years (2-8 years). five have been referred for benign upper gastrointestinal conditions, but none for upper gastrointestinal malignancy. thirty one subjects have died - one from gastric cancer (a patient who had undergone a previous partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer and who had persistent upper gastrointestinal symptoms). the remaining deaths were unrelated to the upper gastrointestinal tract. nineteen people who have left the trial area have been monitored for the development of malignant disease; none have presented with upper gastrointestinal malignancy. these data support the view that upper gastrointestinal investigations need not be performed routinely in this group of subjects, but may be reserved for those with relevant symptoms.
venous and arterial thrombosis in patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. the records of 2,673 patients randomized according to seven consecutive eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog) studies of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer were reviewed for the occurrence of vascular complications. all protocols opened and closed between june 1977 and july 1987. the objectives of the present study were (1) to compare the frequency of vascular complications among patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with patients on observation, and (2) to estimate the contribution of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy to the occurrence of venous and arterial thrombi. the frequency of thrombosis, both venous and arterial combined, was 5.4% among patients who received adjuvant therapy and was 1.6% among patients on observation (p = .0002). premenopausal patients who received chemotherapy and tamoxifen had significantly more venous complications than those who received chemotherapy without tamoxifen (2.8% v 0.8%, p = .03). postmenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had significantly more venous thrombi than those who received tamoxifen alone (8.0% v 2.3%, p = .03) or those who were observed (8.0% v 0.4%, p less than .0001). premenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had a 1.6% frequency of arterial thrombosis, significantly more than patients who received chemotherapy alone (1.6% v 0.0%, p = .004). the frequency of arterial thrombosis among postmenopausal patients was not significantly correlated with adjuvant therapy. in conclusion, patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had a 5.4% frequency of thromboembolic complications, significantly more than those who were observed. the combination of chemotherapy and tamoxifen was associated with more venous and arterial thromboembolic complications than chemotherapy alone in premenopausal patients and with more venous thrombi than tamoxifen alone among postmenopausal patients.
nerve growth factor binding domain of the nerve growth factor receptor. a structural analysis of the rat low-affinity nerve growth factor (ngf) receptor was undertaken to define the ngf binding domain. mutant ngf receptor dna constructs were expressed in mouse fibroblasts or cos cells, and the ability of the mutant receptor to bind ngf was assayed. in the first mutant, all but 16 amino acid residues of the intracellular domain of the receptor were removed. this receptor bound ngf with a kd comparable to that of the wild-type receptor. a second mutant contained only the four cysteine-rich sequences from the extracellular portion of the protein. this mutant was expressed in cos cells and the resultant protein was a secreted soluble form of the receptor that was able to bind ngf. two n-terminal deletions, in which either the first cysteine-rich sequence of the first and part of the second cysteine-rich sequences were removed, bound ngf. however, a mutant lacking all four cysteine-rich sequences was unable to bind ngf. these results show that the four cysteine-rich sequences of the ngf receptor contain the ngf binding domain.
late recurrence of a hepatocellular carcinoma in a patient with incomplete alagille syndrome. in this study, the case of a patient presenting a second hepatocellular carcinoma 13 years after resection of a first tumor of the same type is reported. in this case, etiological investigations remained negative, but an incomplete form of syndromatic alagille syndrome with paucity of bile ducts in the nontumoral tissue was detected and associated with nodular regenerative hyperplasia and foci of dysplasia. malignant transformation in alagille syndrome seems to be extremely rare. the fact that such tumors evolve very slowly could be an argument for partial hepatectomy and, if necessary, liver transplantation.
effect of alcohols and other hypnotics in mice selected for differential sensitivity to hypothermic actions of ethanol. mice selectively bred for resistance (hot) and sensitivity (cold) to the hypothermic effect of an acute dose of ethanol were tested twice during the course of genetic selection for their hypothermic response to other alcohols and sedative hypnotics. the drugs administered were ethanol, propanol, n-butanol, t-butanol, pentanol, diazepam, phenobarbital, pentobarbital, methyprylon and ethchlorvynol, all of which have sedative effects on the central nervous system, and hydralazine, a peripheral vasodilator. all drugs decreased body temperature of both hot and cold mice. in mice selected for seven to nine generations, cold mice were more sensitive than hot mice to all sedative drugs. the longer-chain alcohols were more potent than ethanol in inducing hypothermia, but the magnitude of the response difference between hot and cold mice appeared to be smaller. the difference between hot and cold mice in hypothermic sensitivity to an acute dose of ethanol was greater after 11-15 generations of selection than after seven generations. similarly, the differential effect of the other alcohols, phenobarbital, pentobarbital, and methyprylon, on hot and cold mice increased with more generations of selection but to a lesser extent than ethanol. these data demonstrate that selecting for sensitivity to acute ethanol hypothermia has produced mice that are also differentially sensitive to other sedative hypnotic agents. they also support the hypothesis that the drugs used in the present study share a common mechanism of action for inducing hypothermia, which may be regulated by a common set of genes.
influence of preservation or perfusion of intraoperatively identified spinal cord blood supply on spinal motor evoked potentials and paraplegia after aortic surgery. permanent ligation of arteries supplying blood to the spinal cord in operations for aortic aneurysm can lead to spinal cord ischemia, which can result in either paraparesis or paraplegia. this report describes a rapid method of intraoperative identification of those arteries that supply the spinal cord by use of an intrathecal platinum electrode to detect hydrogen in solution that has been injected into the aortic ostia. preservation or perfusion of those identified arteries supplying the spinal cord may decrease the rate of postoperative neurologic complications. of 28 porcine experiments with postoperative observation for 24 hours, there were 3 initial pilot experiments in which saline saturated with hydrogen was injected into the temporarily cross-clamped aorta. twenty animals were then randomized to (1) preservation of only the vessels sequentially identified to supply blood to the spinal cord from t-13 to l-5 (n = 10); (2) division of the vessels supplying the spinal cord (n = 10). a further five animals underwent perfusion experiments wherein the identified cord arteries were perfused by a shunt, the other nonsupply arteries were divided, and the aorta was kept clamped for 45 minutes. spinal motor evoked potentials were elicited with an intrathecal electrode and were highly sensitive for paralysis. paralysis occurred in 0/3 pilot (p less than 0.013 vs division); 8/10 division; 1/10 preservation (p less than 0.0017 vs division); and perfusion 1/5 (p less than 0.025 vs division). results of a pilot study in eight humans shows that the technique can be used to rapidly identify segmental arteries supplying the spinal cord, to determine if distal perfusion is supplying the spinal cord with blood flow, and if reattached segmental arteries are patent.
repair of supravalvar aortic stenosis: cardiovascular morphometric and hemodynamic results. supravalvar aortic stenosis is associated with normal systolic pressure in the aorta and its branches with the singular exception of the coronary arteries, which are hypertensive. this uncommon lesion has been treated by patch aortoplasty of several types. we examined hemodynamics and morphometrics in 13 patients who underwent operation for supravalvar aortic stenosis from 1979 through 1988. they ranged in age from 2 to 43 years (mean age, 14.5 +/- 3.8 years [+/- standard error of the mean]). there were no operative deaths. preoperative and postoperative (1 to 5 years) catheterization or echocardiography or a combination of these was done in all but 3 patients (1 died late suddenly without a postmortem examination; 1 was lost to follow-up; and 1 has not yet been restudied). pressure gradients across the stenosis in patients treated with a single-sinus patch (n = 4) were 65 +/- 18 mm hg preoperatively and 5 +/- 3 mm hg postoperatively (p less than 0.05) and in patients with a bisinus patch (n = 6), 83 +/- 15 mm hg preoperatively and 6 +/- 2 mm hg postoperatively (p less than 0.05); the two groups were not significantly different. measurements of the diameters of the coronary arteries, aortic annulus, and descending aorta were made, and calculation of the ratio of the coronary artery and annulus diameters to the descending aortic diameters both preoperatively and postoperatively was possible in 5 patients. the left coronary artery was larger than normal before and after operation. preoperatively there was a disproportionate increase in left coronary artery and annulus size during systole. left ventricular wall thickness decreased significantly postoperatively (p less than 0.05). repair of supravalvar aortic stenosis (localized and diffuse) by both single sinus and bisinus patch repair is safe and hemodynamic results are good.
the senegal dna haplotype is associated with the amelioration of anemia in african-american sickle cell anemia patients. we have previously determined that in african sickle cell anemia (ss) patients three different beta-like globin gene cluster haplotypes are associated with different percent g gamma (one of the two types of non-alpha chains comprising hemoglobin f [hbf]), mean percent hbf, and percent dense cells. we report now that in adult new york ss patients, the presence of at least one chromosome with the senegal haplotype is associated with higher hb levels (1.2 g/dl higher) than is found for any other non-senegal haplotype (p less than .004). the percent reticulocytes and the serum bilirubin levels were lower in these patients. when the effect of alpha-gene number was analyzed by examining a sample of ss patients with concomitant alpha-thalassemia, the same results were obtained. because the hbf level is significantly higher among the senegal haplotype carriers in this sample, the inhibitory effect on sickling of this hb variant may be one of the reasons for the haplotype effect. we conclude that the senegal beta-like globin gene cluster haplotype is associated with an amelioration of the hemolytic anemia that characterizes sickle cell disease.
central nervous system involvement in patients with facial palsy due to borrelial infection. patients with a peripheral facial palsy due to an underlying ixodes-borne borreliosis often have cerebrospinal fluid findings indicating meningeal involvement. the aim of the present study was to identify signs of cns involvement by means of brain-stem evoked response audiometry (bser) in patients with a facial palsy due to borreliosis, as well as in patients with a facial palsy of unknown aetiology. bell's palsy. abnormalities in bser were found to be significantly more common along the borrelial patients. furthermore, a reversal of these abnormalities following treatment with benzyl-penicillin was found in the majority of patients with borreliosis. the results of the present study emphasize the importance of diagnosing and treating an underlying borreliosis in patients with a peripheral facial palsy.
the effectiveness of double-gloving in otolaryngology. thirty-four sets of consecutively used double gloves (68 pairs) used by otolaryngologists and their assistants in operations known to have a high risk of glove punctures were studied. the perforation rates for the outer and inner layers were 35.3 and 8.8% respectively, indicating that a second set of gloves substantially improves the likelihood of maintaining an intact barrier between medical staff and patient.
a 47-kda human nuclear protein recognized by antikinetochore autoimmune sera is homologous with the protein encoded by rcc1, a gene implicated in onset of chromosome condensation. several autoimmune sera from patients with raynaud phenomenon decorated mammalian kinetochores and bound to a 47-kda protein on immunoblots of nuclear lysates. antibody affinity-purified from immunoblots of the 47-kda band recognized kinetochores, but due to crossreaction with an 18-kda protein, localization remains elusive. we used one of these sera to purify the antigen from hela cells synchronized in mitosis as a noncovalent complex with a 25-kda protein. the antigen was released from dna by intercalation with 25 mm chloroquine. ion-exchange chromatography yielded the pure complex with an apparent molecular size of 68 kda, which was separated into its components by gel filtration in 6 m guanidinium chloride. upon two-dimensional gel electrophoresis the 47-kda protein gave two main spots of pi 6.6 and 6.7, respectively. posttranslational modification is indicated by additional antigenic spots, by lack of a free alpha-amino group, and by chromatographic behavior of peptides on reversed-phase chromatography. the amino acid sequence for 205 residues of the 47-kda protein has been established. this sequence is highly homologous with the translated reading frame of rcc1, a gene reportedly involved in regulating onset of mammalian chromosome condensation.
suggested standards for reporting on arterial aneurysms. subcommittee on reporting standards for arterial aneurysms, ad hoc committee on reporting standards, society for vascular surgery and north american chapter, international society for cardiovascular surgery. the literature on arterial aneurysms is subject to potential misinterpretation because of inconsistencies in reporting standards. the joint councils of the society for vascular surgery and the north american chapter of the international society for cardiovascular surgery appointed an ad hoc committee to address this issue. this communication, prepared in response to the need for standardized reporting, defines and classifies arterial aneurysms and recommends standards for describing the causes, manifestations, treatment, and outcome criteria that are important when publishing data on aneurysmal disease.
follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in men older than 50 years of age. a dna flow cytometric study the clinical behavior of follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in elderly men can be difficult to predict on histologic grounds alone. to assess the usefulness of dna flow cytometry in predicting the metastatic potential of these tumors, the authors studied 44 primary and metastatic follicular neoplasms of the thyroid by dna flow cytometry of paraffin-embedded tissue. the neoplasms were obtained from 44 men ranging in age from 50 to 79 years (mean, 60). there were 29 follicular adenomas, 11 primary follicular carcinomas (neoplasms with capsular and/or vascular invasion), and 4 metastatic follicular carcinomas. follow-up information was available on 40 of the 44 patients. the mean follow-up was 114 months. twenty-five of the 29 follicular adenomas had a diploid dna content, 2 (7%) were tetraploid, and the dna histograms on 2 were not interpretable. all patients with follicular adenomas had no evidence of disease (ned) at last follow-up. eight of the 11 primary follicular carcinomas were diploid. six of these patients had ned, one died with carcinoma at 82 months, and no follow-up was available on one. three (27%) of the primary follicular carcinomas were aneuploid or tetraploid. two of these patients had ned, and the third died with carcinoma 84 months after diagnosis. two of the four metastatic follicular carcinomas were diploid and two (50%) were aneuploid or tetraploid. one of the two patients with diploid metastatic follicular carcinomas died with carcinoma, as did one of the two patients with aneuploid metastatic follicular carcinomas. these results suggest the following: (1) follicular carcinomas are more likely to be aneuploid or tetraploid than are follicular adenomas; (2) follicular neoplasms without capsular or vascular invasion may include a small number of aneuploid or tetraploid tumors; and (3) dna ploidy does not add to the prognostic value of histologic studies alone.
different mrnas code for dopa decarboxylase in tissues of neuronal and nonneuronal origin. a cdna clone for dopa decarboxylase (ec 4.1.1.28) has been isolated from a rat pheochromocytoma cdna library and the cdna sequence has been determined. it corresponds to an mrna of 2094 nucleotides. the length of the mrna was measured by primer-extension of rat pheochromocytoma rna and the 5' end of the sequence of the mrna was confirmed by the pcr. a probe spanning the translation initiation site of the mrna was used to hybridize with mrnas from various organs of the rat. s1 nuclease digestion of the mrnas annealed with this probe revealed two classes of mrnas. the comparison of the cdna sequence and published sequences for rat liver, human pheochromocytoma, and drosophila dopa decarboxylase supported the conclusion that two mrnas are produced: one is specific for tissue of neuronal origin and the other is specific for tissues of nonneuronal (mesodermal or endodermal) origin. the neuronal mrna contains a 5' untranslated sequence that is highly conserved between human and rat pheochromocytoma including a ga stretch. the coding sequence and the 3' untranslated sequence of mrnas from rat liver and pheochromocytoma are identical. the rat mrna differs only in the 5' untranslated region. thus a unique gene codes for dopa decarboxylase and this gene gives rise to at least two transcripts presumably in response to different signals during development.
ketamine as analgesic for total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol. a prospective study of 18 patients who underwent noncardiac surgery was performed to study the use of ketamine as an analgesic during total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol. a comparison was made with the combination propofol/fentanyl. the propofol/ketamine combination resulted in haemodynamically stable anaesthesia without the need for additional analgesics. postoperative behaviour was normal in all patients and none of the patients reported dreaming during or after the operation. propofol seems to be effective in eliminating side effects of a subanaesthetic dose of ketamine in humans. we recommend the propofol/ketamine combination for total intravenous anaesthesia for surgery when stable haemodynamics are required.
evidence that tumor necrosis factor plays a pathogenetic role in the paraneoplastic syndromes of cachexia, hypercalcemia, and leukocytosis in a human tumor in nude mice. recently, we have established a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla (called mh-85) associated with hypercalcemia, leukocytosis, and cachexia in culture. mh-85 tumor cells caused the same paraneoplastic syndromes in tumor-bearing nude mice. we found that there was a sixfold increase in splenic size in mh-85 tumor-bearing mice. this increase paralleled tumor growth and was reversed by surgical removal of the tumor. splenectomy in nude mice 1 wk before or 6 wk after tumor inoculation resulted in a decrease in tumor growth, and impairment of hypercalcemia, leukocytosis, and cachexia. in mh-85 tumor-bearing animals that had been pretreated by splenectomy, intravenous injection of fresh normal spleen cells caused an immediate reversal of leukocytosis, hypercalcemia, and cachexia. since the presence of cachexia in both the patient and the mice carrying the tumor suggested tumor necrosis factor (tnf) may be overproduced, we injected polyclonal neutralizing antibodies raised against murine tnf into tumor-bearing mice. there was a rapid and reproducible decrease in blood ionized calcium, accompanied by suppression of osteoclast activity. no changes in blood ionized calcium were seen in mice injected with normal immune sera. in addition, there was an increase in body weight and decrease in white cell count. plasma immunoreactive tnf was increased almost fourfold in tumor-bearing nude mice compared with control nude mice. although tnf activity was undetectable in mh-85 culture supernatants, cells of the macrophage lineage, including spleen cells, released increased amounts of tnf when cultured with mh-85 tumor-conditioned media. these results suggest that splenic cytokines such as tnf may influence the development of the paraneoplastic syndromes of hypercalcemia, leukocytosis, and cachexia in these animals, as well as tumor growth. they also show that paraneoplastic syndromes may be due to factors produced by normal host cells stimulated by the presence of the tumor.
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin for variceal bleeding. emergency control and prevention of early variceal rebleeding. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin was conducted among 120 patients admitted for bleeding esophageal varices (59 placebo, 61 somatostatin). an initial 250-micrograms bolus of somatostatin followed by a 5-day continuous infusion of 250 micrograms/h and an identical administration of placebo were evaluated for both the control of bleeding and prevention of early rebleeding from varices. failure to control bleeding occurred in 22 (36%) somatostatin patients vs. 35 (59%) placebo patients, with time to failure occurring earlier with placebo (p = 0.036). blood and plasma transfused per hour during drug infusion of trial drug was reduced in the somatostatin group: median 0.033 vs. 0.105 unit/h (p = 0.025). use of balloon tamponade was halved in somatostatin-treated patients. the average effect of somatostatin was a 41% reduction in the hazard of failure (95% confidence interval, -1% to 65%, p = 0.0545) after adjustment for the severity of liver disease, which was the only other variable having a significant influence on time to failure. there was no difference in 30-day mortality per admission (7 placebo, 9 somatostatin) or complications. it is concluded that somatostatin is safe and more effective than placebo for the control of variceal bleeding.
mortality in hereditary antithrombin-iii deficiency--1830 to 1989 to determine whether antithrombin-iii (at-iii) deficiency leads to an excess mortality, we studied 171 individuals from ten families with a proven hereditary deficiency. 73 were classified as certainly deficient either by direct measurement of at-iii concentration or by mendelian inheritance patterns. 98 individuals had a high probability (0.5) of deficiency. the 64 deaths recorded did not exceed those expected for the general population adjusted for age, sex, and calendar period. we suggest that a policy of prophylactic anticoagulation for patients with at-iii deficiency cannot be recommended.
spectral electroretinography in thioridazine toxicity. in three patients with thioridazine toxicity, the electroretinogram (erg) to red light was found to be below the average normal range. a significant increase in its amplitude appeared with cessation of therapy in two cases. a further deterioration of the erg amplitude to all stimulus conditions (white, blue, and red lights) occurred when the dose of the medication was increased in the third patient.
endothelium-derived relaxing factor inhibits hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in rats. the hypothesis that endothelium-derived relaxing factor (edrf) modulates hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (hpv) was tested in isolated, blood-perfused rat lungs ventilated with gas mixtures of 21% o2-5% co2-74% n2 (normoxia) or of 3% o2-5% co2-92% n2 (hypoxia); 30 microm ng-monomethyl-l-arginine (l-nmma), an inhibitor of edrf production, caused a reduction in the endothelium-dependent relaxant response to acetylcholine (ach) from 62 +/- 7, 88 +/- 4, and 100 +/- 4% to 26 +/- 8, 49 +/- 12, and 75 +/- 7% at ach concentrations of 1, 10, and 100 microm, respectively (p less than 0.05 at all concentrations), indicating that l-nmma acts via the inhibition of edrf production. l-nmma induced a concentration-related augmentation in hpv of 20 +/- 5, 32 +/- 8, and 34 +/- 8% at concentrations of 30, 300, and 1,000 microm (p less than 0.05, compared with a vehicle control group at all concentrations). the pressor response to a dose of angiotensin ii (a-ii), which produced the same increase in pulmonary artery pressure as that induced by hypoxia, was also significantly augmented (2 +/- 0.6%), but to a lesser extent. the augmentation of hpv by 30 microm l-nmma was completely reversed by 1 mm l-arginine (a precursor of edrf), but not by d-arginine (an isomer of l-arginine). one and 6 mm l-arginine, but not 6 mm d-arginine caused a significant inhibition of hpv by 20 +/- 2 and 47 +/- 12% (p less than 0.05, compared with the vehicle control group) and a small but not significant reduction in a-ii-mediated contraction.
histologic similarity of murine colonic graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) to human colonic gvhd and inflammatory bowel disease. in a study designed to determine which t-cell subsets are involved in the development of murine graft-versus-host disease (gvhd), a prospective histologic analysis of gastrointestinal involvement was performed. in c57bl/6jxdba/2f1 (b6d2f1) recipients of dba/2 donor spleen and bone marrow cells, the colonic histologic findings were found to be similar in many respects to the histologic findings reported in human colonic gvhd and were much more severe and diffuse than were the abnormalities of the small intestine. host irradiation before transplantation was found to play an additive or synergistic role in the development of gvhd. furthermore the histologic features noted in dba/2----b6d2f1 murine colonic gvhd suggest that bone marrow and spleen cell transplantation in this strain combination may be a useful model for studying the immunologic mechanisms involved in human inflammatory bowel disease. thus severe colonic disease noted during the course of dba/2----b6d2f1 murine gvhd was found to have significant histopathologic similarities to both human gvhd enteropathy and other inflammatory diseases of the human colon.
functional evaluation of quadriplegic patients using a hand neuroprosthesis. the objective of this retrospective study was to compare the abilities of quadriplegic patients to complete activities of daily living with and without the use of a portable hand neuroprosthesis. the neuroprosthesis provided synthetic hand grasp through functional neuromuscular stimulation of paralyzed forearm and hand muscles. data were obtained from telephone interviews, patient records, and videotapes. twenty-two quadriplegic patients were included in the study; 15 were functional at a c5 spinal cord injury level and seven at a c6 level. the median success rate (ie, the percentage of patients who could complete each activity) across the ten activities was 89% with the hand neuroprosthesis but was only 49% without the hand neuroprosthesis. all patients could perform more tasks when the neuroprosthesis was used, although the relative improvement of c5 patients was larger than that of c6 patients.
fatal embolization of intestinal contents through a duodenocaval fistula. embolization of intestinal contents to the lung is an exceedingly rare event, which to our knowledge, has never been reported as a cause of death. equally rare is duodenocaval fistula resulting from a penetrating duodenal peptic ulcer. we present the case of a 51-year-old man whose duodenal ulcer led to a fistulous tract with the inferior vena cava and subsequently to progressive pulmonary embolization of intestinal contents, ultimately resulting in death from respiratory failure.
ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv: diagnosis and therapy of associated bowel perforation. ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv is a heritable disease of type iii collagen metabolism. this diagnosis is suspected in a patient with a combination of clinical manifestations and family history, but it is confirmed only by culture of the patient's skin fibroblasts and demonstration of a defect in type iii collagen metabolism. the disease may rarely present with spontaneous colonic perforation, a complication traditionally treated by primary closure of the perforated segment and creation of an end colostomy. attempts at bowel reanastomosis have often resulted in repeated colon perforations. we present the first patient with ehlers-danlos type iv syndrome to develop a colon perforation proximal to an end colostomy, and discuss the surgical strategy to prevent recurrences of this and other postoperative complications associated with the syndrome.
deceptive bizarre stromal cells in polyps and ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract. the clinical and pathologic features of 33 pseudomalignant lesions of the gastrointestinal tract with bizarre stromal cells are reported. deceptive histologic changes were identified in ulcers of seven patients and in inflammatory polyps of 26. a misdiagnosis of malignant neoplasm was made in six of the 33 patients (three polyps and three ulcers). a history of gastrointestinal bleeding and/or inflammatory bowel disease was common. the bizarre stromal cells were usually distributed beneath the ulcerated mucosa or within granulation tissue. they stained strongly for vimentin in 20 of 23 cases. some of the bizarre cells also stained for muscle specific actin (seven of 23 cases). the cells appear to be reactive fibroblasts or myofibroblasts. follow-up information obtained on 24 of the 33 patients (including four of the six cases initially diagnosed as malignant) revealed 22 patients to be alive without evidence of a malignant neoplasm (average follow-up, 13 months). two patients died of other causes. correct recognition of these bizarre stromal cells in gastrointestinal ulcers and inflammatory polyps will prevent a potentially serious diagnostic pitfall.
morbidity, mortality, and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years. in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, stroke, cancer, and death (the status of 99.7% of the initial participants was established). the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality. of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981, 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits. these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease, and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data, with the exception of a slightly higher body mass, taller stature, and lower serum cholesterol concentration. the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function. we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy.
prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine added to a metoclopramide antiemetic regimen. a controlled comparison. cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting occurs both acutely and over a prolonged period of time. these symptoms may be incapacitating and are frequently given as a reason to discontinue therapy. we compared prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine when added to a standardized metoclopramide antiemetic regimen. twenty-seven patients receiving cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment arms. patients were observed during chemotherapy and answered a standard questionnaire 24-26 hours later. among similar treatment groups no differences were seen regarding the number of emetic events, level of nausea, degree of sedation or overall acceptability of one treatment arm or another. while not superior to prochlorperazine, transdermal scopolamine is a useful antiemetic agent and can be combined with metoclopramide in an attempt to reduce cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. further evaluation of this approach is needed.
small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract. four cases of anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas or biliary tract were studied clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically. all four cases were intermediate cell type and contained a minimum amount of microscopic foci of differentiated glandular adenocarcinoma. argyrophilic tumor cells were not seen in any of the four tumors. immunohistochemically, no tumor was positive for hormonal products, but all tumors were positive for epithelial markers. these findings suggest that the anaplastic carcinoma are not derived from argyrophilic cells, but rather from adenocarcinomas which have the potential for anaplastic metaplasia. the long-term survival of one patient emphasized the importance of chemotherapy in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract.
biphasic reduction and concanavalin a binding properties of serum alpha-fetoprotein in preterm and term infants. reference values for postnatal serum alpha-fetoprotein (afp) and concanavalin a (cona) binding subfractions of afp in preterm and term infants are presented. preterm infants had 10-fold higher serum concentrations of afp than did term infants at birth. the reduction of serum values of afp was biphasic in both groups and differed significantly between the two groups. the first declining phase continued for approximately 4 months in preterm and for 2 months in term infants, and was related to the degree of prematurity. the afp values reached adult levels by 12 months in preterm and by 9 months in term infants. the developmental pattern of the carbohydrate moiety of afp was determined by cona fractioning. the proportion of the cona nonreactive subfraction of afp in preterm and term infants at birth was 6% and 13%, respectively; it increased more rapidly in term than in preterm infants but reached 85% to 95% by the age of 6 months in both infant groups. our results indicate that the postnatal maturation of afp synthesis is dependent on gestational age. malignant recurrences of neonatal sacrococcygeal teratomas were associated with an increase in serum concentration of afp and a decrease in the proportion of the cona nonreactive subfraction of afp.
the acutely affected abdomen in paraplegic spinal cord injury patients. the records of 145 paraplegic or quadriplegic patients were reviewed to identify those factors useful in the correct diagnosis of the acute abdomen in this population. twenty-one patients had 22 episodes of acute or subacute abdominal problems. presenting complaints, physical findings, and laboratory results were useful in various ways. however appropriate radiographic studies led to the correct diagnosis in 77% of patients. although paraplegic and quadriplegic patients are predisposed to a distinct constellation of medical problems, including urinary tract infection and calculi, they also may present with other abdominal conditions that cause significant morbidity and mortality if not promptly recognized.
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. twenty hogs were administered the following procedures before, during, and after overdistraction of the spinal column at t5-t6: somatosensory (sep) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps), hydrogen clearance procedures, stagnara wake-up tests, and aortic-injection of silastic plastic. to ensure that overdistraction was possible, a nonosseous, circumferential osteotomy was made at t5-t6 and distraction applied in one-ratchet increments using harrington instrumentation. overdistraction was maintained for 3, 5, 6, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 minutes. results indicated that the duration of overdistraction, as represented by lost nmeps, was always correlated with the animal's clinical status on wake-up test. if overdistraction was maintained more than 6 minutes, 100% of the animals demonstrated positive wake-up results; if maintained between 5 and 6 minutes, 75% demonstrated positive wake-up results; and if maintained less than 5 minutes, only 25% demonstrated positive wake-up results. time-to-loss of the nmeps and seps, after onset of overdistraction, fell within two groups: slow and fast. in the slow group, it required slightly more than 20 minutes (mean = 20.6) for the potentials to be lost, while in the fast-loss group data were lost in slightly less than 4 minutes (mean = 3.6). blood flow studies and inspection of the spinal cord revealed that the mechanism of action for the slow group appeared to be ischemia of the spinal cord that extended several centimeters above and below the site of maximum distraction. in the fast-loss group, it appeared that gross structural damage, with some very localized ischemia, were the mechanisms of actions influencing the integrity of the spinal cord.
disseminated zygomycosis associated with systemic lupus erythematosus. we describe a 36-year-old patient who had systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and died of disseminated zygomycosis. there was rapid progression of his sle, leading to suspicion of superimposed infectious disease, but the actual cause of his multiorgan failure was not recognized until after death. the manner in which systemic fungal infection may mimic sle is discussed.
hepatic tumors: signal enhancement at doppler us after intravenous injection of a contrast agent. experiments were carried out to detect and establish the origin of doppler and echo signal enhancement in small vessels of the systemic circulation and of tumors after intravenous injection of a contrast agent. eight woodchucks (marmota monax) were studied; each woodchuck had naturally occurring hepatocellular carcinoma. injections of 0.1-4.0 ml of air-filled human serum albumin microspheres were administered into a hind limb or jugular vein. ultrasound (us) examination included transabdominal duplex scanning, color doppler imaging, placement of a doppler transducer on the exposed tumor, and surgical implantation of pulsed doppler cuffs. doppler signals were assessed by recording color doppler images and results of spectral analysis. while subjective echo level was unaffected within the tumors, dramatic doppler signal enhancement was recorded in both normal and tumor vessels. at optimum dose levels, a signal gain of approximately 10 db was recorded from the tumor. analysis showed that the echo enhancement was due to the presence of the contrast agent in branches of the hepatic artery. these results suggest that tumor detection may be enhanced by intravenous administration of a us contrast agent.
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients. the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil (5fu) 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 (fec 50) and 5fu 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 (fec 75) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients. patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only. four hundred twelve patients entered this trial; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy. the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 (44.6%) and fec 75 (44.7%), but both were better than the epirubicin alone (30.6%) (p = .04 and p = .0006, respectively). the complete response rate was better in fec 75 (15.5%) than in fec 50 (7%) (p = .025) or epirubicin (4%) (p = .002). similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases. no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only. mean durations of response were similar in the three groups, being 412 days, 440 days, and 350 days for fec 50, fec 75, and epirubicin, respectively. patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment (without anthracyclines). tolerability was fair in the three groups. overall, the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups, which did not differ significantly. time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups, but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group, and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance. no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin- and fec 50-group patients, even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group.
raised urinary secretory iga in chronic diarrhoea. secretory iga outputs in urine have been measured in 24 malnourished gambian children who had been admitted to hospital with chronic diarrhoea and in 43 children from a rural gambian village. village children of poor nutritional state (less than or equal to 74% weight for age compared with the national center for health statistics reference curve) had secretory iga outputs that were only one third of those of better nourished individuals. in contrast, the patients with chronic diarrhoea had secretory iga outputs that were significantly raised compared with village children, regardless of nutritional state. these results demonstrate that secretory iga production in the urinary tract can be stimulated by intestinal disease, suggesting that malnourished children are able to mount a response to mucosal infection and supporting the hypothesis of a common secretory immune system.
endoscopic sclerotherapy in extrahepatic portal hypertension in pregnancy. extrahepatic portal hypertension usually occurs during childhood, but a substantial number of patients may reach adult life. there is a general agreement that pregnancy may become hazardous to these patients, and some authors even consider this condition as a contraindication to conceiving. a case of endoscopic sclerotherapy in such a patient is herein presented, and the approach to such patients is discussed.
microalbuminuria in essential hypertension. clinically apparent proteinuria in essential hypertension is associated with increased cardiovascular and total mortality and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. subclinical elevation of urinary albumin excretion is seen more frequently than clinical proteinuria in essential hypertension and the levels of microalbuminuria (excretions of 30 to 300 mg/24 h) correlate with blood pressure. the increased urinary albumin excretion in hypertension may be explained by several factors such as renal hemodynamic changes, permselectivity changes of the glomerular filter, and structural arteriolar and glomerular changes due to nephrosclerosis. it has been clearly demonstrated that microalbuminuria is a risk factor for the development of clinical proteinuria, renal failure and increased cardiovascular mortality in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. it is still not known whether microalbuminuria also predicts development of proteinuria and decline in renal function in hypertension but there is some evidence indicating that microalbuminuria may be a marker of increased cardiovascular risk in hypertensives.
codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. a randomised, double-blind, multi-centre study. this randomized, double-blind, multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. a total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study. eighty-three patients (mean age 66 years) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily, and 75 patients (mean age 67 years) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily. ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication. due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions, the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered. over weeks 1-4, 87%, 64%, 61% and 52% of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group, and 38%, 31%, 22% and 29% of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions. significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks. nausea, dizziness, vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group. during the first week of treatment, 30 patients (36%) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 (12%) in the paracetamol group dropped out. as evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment, the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group. moreover, during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently. in conclusion, when evaluated after 7 days of treatment, the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint. however, several adverse drug reactions, mainly of the gastrointestinal tract, and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine cannot be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients.
eosinophil activation in systemic sclerosis. circulating levels of eosinophil cationic protein (ecp) were increased 4-fold in patients with systemic sclerosis (ssc) compared with those in healthy control subjects. there was no correlation between the ecp concentrations and laboratory indices of inflammatory activity or visceral involvement. mean ecp levels were higher in patients with a history of occupational exposure to silica, even though patients who had no such history also had ecp levels higher than normal. the patients had increased bronchoalveolar levels of ecp, which correlated with impaired lung functioning. skin infiltration with activated eosinophils and extracellular deposits of ecp were present in skin biopsy samples from the ssc patients. we conclude that eosinophil activation is part of the inflammatory process in ssc.
characterization of the effect of two 4-methyl piperidine derivatives of hemicholinium-3, a-4 and a-5, on choline transport. a-4 and a-5 are tertiary and n-methyl quaternary 4-methylpiperidine analogs of hemicholinium-3 (hc-3). previous work in this laboratory has shown a-4 and a-5 to be inhibitors of the sodium-dependent, high affinity choline uptake system (sdhacu). their effects on choline transport were characterized further using neuroblastoma 41a3 cells. these cells rapidly take up choline through two separate mechanisms: a sdhacu system and a sodium-independent, low affinity uptake system (silacu). a-4, a-5 and hc-3 decreased 5 microm choline transport in a dose-dependent fashion. the compounds were unable to decrease choline transport at 250 microm choline suggesting that they are inactive with respect to silacu. all three compounds significantly increased the km but not the vmax for the sdhacu system, suggesting a competitive mechanism of inhibition. ki values ranged from 18 to 25 microm for a-4, 20 to 26 microm for a-5 and 68 to 75 microm for hc-3. dose-response curves for inhibition of choline transport by a-5 and hc-3 were not changed by a 24-hr pre-exposure of the cells to each inhibitor. however, after a 24-hr pre-exposure to a-4, a significantly different dose-response curve was obtained compared to the dose-response curve for a-4 in untreated cells. after a 24-hr pre-exposure, a 4-hr recovery period was sufficient to remove the effect of each compound. these data suggest that a-4 and a-5, like hc-3, inhibit the sdhacu, competitively and reversibly.
longitudinal dissociation of atrioventricular accessory pathways. unusual properties of atrioventricular (av) accessory pathways were found during electrophysiologic investigations in four patients (three men and one woman). anterograde longitudinal dissociation of the accessory pathway was observed in two patients and retrograde longitudinal dissociation in two others. two patients had an accessory pathway with a slow conduction time, one in anterograde direction and one in retrograde direction. these observations further expand our knowledge of the spectrum of electrophysiologic properties of accessory av pathways.
learning disabilities in epilepsy: neurophysiological aspects. subclinical generalized spike-wave discharges are often accompanied by transitory cognitive impairment, demonstrable by psychological testing during eeg recording. transitory cognitive impairment is demonstrated most readily by difficult tasks and during generalized regular spike-wave bursts lasting for more than 3 s, but can also be found during briefer and even focal discharges. that this is not simply a consequence of global inattention is shown by the fact that focal discharges exhibit some specificity: left-sided focal spiking is more likely to produce errors on verbal tasks, for instance, whereas right-sided discharges are more often accompanied by impairment in handling nonverbal material. both learning difficulties in general and specific abnormal patterns of cognitive functioning are well documented in children with epilepsy and are most pronounced in those with frequent interictal discharges. however, there is now evidence that intermittent cognitive impairment due to the discharges themselves contributes significantly to such neurophysiological abnormalities. the significance of transitory cognitive impairment accompanying subclinical eeg discharges for everyday functioning is uncertain, but there is experimental evidence that subclinical discharges may be accompanied by disruption of educational skills in children or by impairment of driving performance in motorists. in some individuals, suppression of discharges by antiepileptic drugs has demonstrably improved psychological function, but further work is required to determine the indications for such treatment.
ascites increases the resting energy expenditure in liver cirrhosis. the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of ascites on the energy metabolism of patients with liver cirrhosis. the resting energy expenditure was determined in 10 patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites of moderate or large volume. the resting energy expenditure measurement was performed using indirect calorimetry and the resting energy expenditure predictive value was calculated with the harris-benedict equation, both before and after removal of ascitic fluid by paracentesis. metabolic stress factors were absent in all cases. after an interval of 11.2 +/- 7.7 days between measurements, a weight loss of 16.6 +/- 10.3 kg was observed with paracentesis. the resting energy expenditure measured by indirect calorimetry showed a statistically significant decrease from 1682 +/- 291 to 1523 +/- 240 kcal/day (p less than 0.005) after removal of ascites. the repeatability of our indirect calorimetry method only allowed for the analysis of the results in 4 of 10 patients in whom ascites removal produced a consistent decrease in resting energy expenditure. there were no statistically significant differences between the measurements obtained by indirect calorimetry and those provided by the harris-benedict equation, but the latter had a moderate reliability in predicting the real resting energy expenditure of every patient. our results suggest that, far from being an inert volume, ascites may be associated, at least in some patients, with an increased resting energy expenditure and therefore accelerate the appearance of protein energy malnutrition with corresponding complications.
syringomatous squamous tumors of the breast. four cases are reported of syringomatous squamous tumors of the breast occurring in women aged 37 to 70 years. the lesions were characterized histologically by relatively well-circumscribed tumor-like nodules composed of a proliferation of teardrop or comma-shaped islands of squamous epithelium. the squamous epithelial islands contained central lumens lined by eosinophilic cuticles and were surrounded by a densely cellular fibrous matrix, thus closely resembling the growth pattern of dermal eccrine syringomas. the lesions appeared to arise de novo from breast parenchyma without evidence of transitions with the surrounding normal or hyperplastic mammary epithelium and were not associated with the overlying skin or nipple epidermis. in all cases, the surrounding breast tissue showed fibrocystic and benign proliferative changes, and in one case, the lesion was found in the vicinity of a large cyst surrounded by microcalcifications. all patients were treated by local surgical excision and have shown no evidence of recurrence over a follow-up period of 1 to 6 years. the histologic differential diagnosis and the possible pathogenesis of these lesions are discussed.
intraperitoneal yttrium-90-labeled monoclonal antibody in ovarian cancer from march 1987 to march 1988, a phase i to ii study was carried out in 25 patients with ovarian cancer. they received escalating doses of intraperitoneally (ip) administered yttrium-90 (y-90)-labeled monoclonal antibody, hmfg1, against a tumor cell-surface antigen. myelosuppression prevented an escalation of the administered y-90 activity above 25 mci. y-90-labeled antibody was absorbed from the peritoneal cavity into the circulation. maximum blood y-90 activity was observed 40 hours after the ip injection with a mean of 21% of the injected activity (range, 14.2% to 26.4%) in the circulation. the radiation dose the bone marrow received from circulating y-90-labeled antibody (the blood radiation dose) was calculated by applying the medical internal radiation dose (mird) formulation to the measured y-90 activity in patients blood. myelosuppression occurred following calculated blood radiation doses to bone marrow of only 10 to 30 cgy. the excessive myelosuppression following such modest radiation doses from circulating y-90-labeled antibody could be explained by the uptake of y-90 by bone. in an attempt to reduce bone absorption of y-90, seven patients received an intravenous (iv) infusion of edta (sinclair pharmaceuticals ltd, godalming, united kingdom). this increased the urinary excretion of y-90 from a mean of 11.1% to 32.3% of the injected activity (p = .0001). fourteen patients had assessable tumor at laparoscopy. tumor regression was observed in one patient, and palliation of ascites in a further patient.
combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy in advanced inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. the final report of a randomized trial. between 1983 and 1986, the national institute for cancer research in genoa and affiliated institutions conducted a randomized study to compare two different ways of combining chemotherapy (ct) and radiation therapy (rt). one hundred sixteen patients were randomized to receive neoadjuvant ct followed by definitive rt (treatment arm a) or alternating ct and rt. in treatment arm a, rt consisted of 70 gy to the involved areas and 50 gy to the uninvolved neck at 2 gy/fraction, five fractions per week. in treatment arm b, rt consisted of 60 gy to involved areas and 50 gy to the uninvolved neck in three courses of 20 gy each, 2 gy/fraction, ten fractions/2 weeks alternated with four courses of ct. ct consisted of vinblastine 6 mg/m2 intravenously followed 6 hours later by bleomycin 30 iu intramuscularly, day 1; methotrexate 200 mg intravenously, day 2; leucovorin rescue, day 3. ct was repeated every 2 weeks up to four courses. the same ct was used in both treatment arms of the study. fifty-five patients were entered in treatment arm a and 61 in treatment arm b. complete responses were 7/48 and 19/57 in treatment arms a and b, respectively (p less than 0.03). four-year progression-free survival was 4% in treatment arm a and 12% in treatment arm b (p less than 0.02), and four-year survival was 10% in a and 22% in b (p less than 0.02). mucosal tolerance was significantly worse in treatment arm b (p less than 0.00004). the subgroup analysis shows the major improvement of alternating ct and rt in patients with the worst prognostic characteristics.
hemopump ventricular support for patients undergoing high risk coronary angioplasty. prophylactic implantation of a hemopump (johnson and johnson, skillman, nj) has been evaluated in nine patients selected for high risk coronary angioplasty. they were unstable patients, refractory to maximal pharmacology, with indications for revascularization, but contraindications for surgery such as low ejection fraction and lack of material for bypass. in all, the target lesion was located on the last patent vessel. the pump was inserted under local anesthesia, without any graft. a specially designed occluder permitted avoidance of retrograde bleeding during implantation. the bypass flow ranged from 2.5 to 3.2 l/min, and permitted a rise in cardiac index from 2.05 to 2.55 l/min/m2, with a drop in capillary wedge pressure from 13 (7-18) to 10 (7-13) mmhg. during balloon inflation, no electrocardiographic changes were observed, because only minor ventricular arrhythmias occurred. no significant hemolysis was seen (plasma free hemoglobin less than 10 mg/dl in all) after 2 hr of pumping. the only limitation of the technique appears to be difficulty at the time of implantation from narrow, stenosed, or tortuous iliofemoral arteries (3 patients). this experience strongly supports the benefit of temporary left ventricular hemopump support in high-risk situations and clearly shows the need for a smaller pump.
spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult. we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult. immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention, epigastric tenderness, shock, and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture. the treatment is simple, but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid.
regression of infundibular pulmonary stenosis after successful balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in adults. between july 1985 and march 1988, 22 adult patients with congenital pulmonary stenosis underwent balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. there were 10 males and 12 females aged 16-45 (average 25 +/- 9.9) years. all patients had additional mild to severe infundibular stenosis; 16 were restudied 6-36 (mean 12.6) months later by repeat catheterization. student's t-test was used for comparison of data. right ventricular (rv) systolic pressure before dilatation was 84-196 (mean 129 +/- 32.3) mm hg, and the peak pulmonary gradient (ppg) was 60-176 (mean 111 +/- 33.2) mm hg immediately after dilatation. the rv systolic pressure dropped to 32-140 (mean 59.2 +/- 27) (p less than 0.001); and ppg dropped to 10-113 (mean 37.8 +/- 26.4) (p less than 0.001), and the infundibular gradient ranged from 8 to 113 (mean 35.1 +/- 25.8) mm hg. the infundibular diameter, before dilatation, ranged from 2 to 15 (mean 9.5 +/- 4) mm hg. at repeat catheterization, the rv systolic pressure dropped further to 33-66 (mean 42.8 +/- 9.7) mm hg and the ppg was reduced to 0-48 (mean 18.4 +/- 10.9) mm hg (p less than 0.001). the infundibular gradient regressed to 0-34 (mean 15 +/- 8.8) mm hg (p less than 0.001). the infundibular diameter increased to 8-25 (mean 15.8 +/- 5.4) (p less than 0.001). it is concluded that moderate to severe infundibular stenosis, in adults, can regress after successful pulmonary valvuloplasty.
changing demographics in the united states. implications for health professionals. the coming decade will bring dramatic changes in the composition of the american population. changes in immigration laws, illegal and legal immigration into this country, and the aging of the "baby boomers" will all result in profound changes in the demographics of this country. these demographic changes will necessitate alterations in all aspects of the health care system. this article focuses on the projected changes that will occur in relation to the elderly, hispanics, asian americans, and the economically disadvantaged, and on the related implications for health care professionals. the cancer incidence and mortality rates for each discussed minority group differ from the rates presently reported for white americans. thus, health professionals will have to be aware of the differences among these groups and tailor their primary and secondary prevention efforts accordingly. the future task for all health care providers serving minorities and the elderly will be to familiarize themselves with the special health problems of the population with whom they work and with the ethnocultural barriers that deter proper use and delivery of health services.
obstructive sleep apnea following topical oropharyngeal anesthesia in loud snorers. previous studies support the presence of an upper airway reflex mechanism that contributes to the maintenance of upper airway patency during sleep. we investigated the possibility that interference with this reflex mechanism contributes to the development of obstructive sleep apnea. eight otherwise asymptomatic snorers (seven male and one female), age 39 +/- 5.3 yr (mean +/- sem), underwent overnight sleep studies on three successive nights. an acclimatization night was followed by two study nights randomly assigned to control (c) and oropharyngeal anesthesia (opa). on the opa night topical anesthesia was induced using 10% lidocaine spray and 0.25% bupivacaine gargle. a saline placebo was used on night c. all subjects slept well on both study nights (mean sleep duration was 6.2 h on both study nights), and sleep stage distribution was similar on both nights. obstructive apneas and hypopneas (oah) rose from 114 +/- 43 during c to 170 +/- 49 during opa (p less than 0.02). central apneas and hypopneas (cah) were unchanged between the two nights (8 +/- 4.9 versus 7 +/- 3). the duration of oah was similar on both study nights (20 +/- 1.9 s during c versus 20 +/- 1.5 s during opa). the frequency of movement arousals terminating oah tended to be higher during opa (7 +/- 2.9/h) than during c (3 +/- 0.7); p = ns. the frequency of oxyhemoglobin desaturations was also higher during opa (5 +/- 2.1/h) than during c (3 +/- 1.4), p less than 0.07.
erythrocyte fatty acids, plasma lipids, and cardiovascular disease in rural china. cardiovascular disease (cvd) mortality (coronary heart disease, hypertensive heart disease, and stroke), plasma lipids, and red blood cell fatty acid composition were examined in an ecologic study in 65 rural counties in the people's republic of china. means of plasma total cholesterol, triglyceride, low-density-lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, and high-density-lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol concentrations were substantially lower and the ratio of hdl cholesterol to total cholesterol was higher in this chinese population than in western populations. mortality rates for cvd in china were well below western values. within china neither plasma total cholesterol nor ldl cholesterol was associated with cvd. a strong inverse correlation between red blood cell oleate concentrations and cvd was observed. however, red blood cell oleate concentrations were not associated with plasma cholesterol but were strongly negatively associated with arachidonate concentrations, suggesting potential diminution of cvd by oleate through reduced platelet aggregability. the results indicate that geographical differences in cvd mortality within china are caused primarily by factors other than dietary or plasma cholesterol.
rectal strictures: treatment with fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation. the authors performed 25 fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation procedures in nine patients with rectal strictures. in all cases, the stricture developed after rectal surgery. four patients underwent ileoanal anastomosis after total colectomy for various conditions; five patients underwent rectosigmoid end-to-end anastomosis after resection of a tumor or as treatment for diverticulitis. maximal stricture dilatation was attained in 20 instances with a single 15-30-mm balloon. in five procedures, two balloons (20 or 15 mm) were inflated simultaneously ("kissing balloons" technique) to dilate the strictures. in five patients, only one dilation procedure was required for effective treatment of the strictures, with no clinical evidence of strictures after follow-up of 1.5-56 months (mean, 29.5 months). in the other four patients, multiple procedures were performed: nine in one patient, five in one patient, and three in two patients. in these patients, no recurrent symptoms developed during follow-up of 1.25-18 months (mean, 8.1 months) after the last dilation. complicating leaks, infection, or hemorrhage did not occur after any of the procedures. fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation is a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of rectal strictures.
cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and fatal coronary vasospasm. the histopathological basis of coronary vasospasm is not well defined. we report a patient with directly observed coronary artery spasm in whom cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and great vessels and myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve were evident. we suggest that myxoid connective tissue lesions of the heart may be linked to coronary vasospasm.
rectourethral fistula caused by kaposi's sarcoma. a 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge, pneumaturia and watery diarrhea. radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula. perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of kaposi's sarcoma. the differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of kaposi's sarcoma are discussed.
effect of propranolol on endothelin-induced increase in cytosolic free calcium. this study was designed to investigate the effect of propranolol on endothelin (et)-1-induced increase in cytosolic ca2+ [( ca2+]i) in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) obtained from rat aorta. propranolol (0.01 to 1 mmol/l) reduced the changes in the initial transient and the later sustained phase of [ca2+]i induced by 100 nmol/l et-1 as well as 10 mmol/l procaine. the inhibitory action of propranolol on the change in [ca2+]i induced by et-1 may be involved in one of the mechanisms of propranolol-induced reduction of vasospasms.
acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy with cerebral involvement. in a patient with angiographically proven cerebral vasculitis five months after acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy (apmppe) neurological symptoms promptly responded to steroid treatment. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) showed a lymphocytic pleocytosis. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) revealed multifocal white matter lesions in the hemispheres and the brain stem suggesting a diffuse subcortical vasculitis.
functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma: analysis of 25 cases. the facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas, either intentionally to ensure complete removal, or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification. in such cases we have, if possible, sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically, either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft. we analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987. the first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months, and there was continued improvement for several years. recovery was graded from 1 to 6. the anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves, in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored (grade 5 or higher). in 11 of the 25 cases, facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good (grade 2 or 3). a grade 1 result, with no perceivable facial dysfunction, was never achieved. typically, oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least. facial appearance was better at rest than with movement, which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis. closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary. when the facial nerve is severed, intraoperative suture is recommended, because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance.
motor units in incomplete spinal cord injury: electrical activity, contractile properties and the effects of biofeedback. the electrical and contractile properties of hand muscles in a selected population of quadriplegic subjects were studied intensively before and after emg biofeedback. spontaneously active motor units and units that could only be slowly and weakly activated were observed in these subjects, in addition to units that were voluntarily activated normally. this suggests a considerable overlap of surviving motor neurons to a single muscle that are below, near or above the level of a lesion. despite the common occurrence of polyphasic potentials and other signs of neuromuscular reinnervation, the average twitch tension of single motor units in hand muscles of quadriplegic subjects was not significantly different from that in control subjects. nor did it increase after biofeedback training that typically increased the peak surface emg by a factor of 2-5 times. the percentage of spontaneously active units was also constant. the surface emg may be increased during biofeedback by using higher firing rates in motor units that can already be activated, rather than by recruiting previously unavailable motor units.
tumor angiogenesis and metastasis--correlation in invasive breast carcinoma. background. experimental evidence suggests that the growth of a tumor beyond a certain size requires angiogenesis, which may also permit metastasis. to investigate how tumor angiogenesis correlates with metastases in breast carcinoma, we counted microvessels (capillaries and venules) and graded the density of microvessels within the initial invasive carcinomas of 49 patients (30 with metastases and 19 without). methods. using light microscopy, we highlighted the vessels by staining their endothelial cells immunocytochemically for factor viii. the microvessels were carefully counted (per 200x field), and their density was graded (1 to 4+), in the most active areas of neovascularization, without knowledge of the outcome in the patient, the presence or absence of metastases, or any other pertinent variable. results. both microvessel counts and density grades correlated with metastatic disease. the mean (+/- sd) count and grade in the patients with metastases were 101 +/- 49.3 and 2.95 +/- 1.00 vessels, respectively. the corresponding values in the patients without metastases were significantly lower--45 +/- 21.1 and 1.38 +/- 0.82 (p = 0.003 and p less than or equal to 0.001, respectively). for each 10-microvessel increase in the count per 200x field, there was a 1.59-fold increase in the risk of metastasis (95 percent confidence interval, 1.19 to 2.12; p = 0.003). the microvessel count and density grade also correlated with distant metastases. for each 10-microvessel increase in the vessel count per 200x field, there was a 1.17-fold increase in the risk of distant metastasis (95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 1.34; p = 0.029). conclusions. the number of microvessels per 200x field in the areas of most intensive neovascularization in an invasive breast carcinoma may be an independent predictor of metastatic disease either in axillary lymph nodes or at distant sites (or both). assessment of tumor angiogenesis may therefore prove valuable in selecting patients with early breast carcinoma for aggressive therapy.
photodynamic therapy in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. photodynamic therapy is an experimental modality for tumor treatment based on the combined action of the tumor-localizing agent, ie, hematoporphyrin derivative, and red light. from 1985 through 1989, 26 patients were treated using hematoporphyrin-derived drugs and 630-nm light delivered by a tunable dye laser. all patients had biopsy-proved squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, and they had either failed the traditional treatment modalities or refused conventional therapies. histological complete responses were achieved in 20 (77%) of 26 patients and partial responses in 5 (19%) of 26 patients for periods up to 48 months. only minimal toxic reaction was noted in the group. as a guide to treatment planning for a patient group with large tumors, we used an optical dosimetry model based on tissue optics. the rate of complete responses to this treatment was 8 (73%) of 11. our data indicate that photodynamic therapy is capable of inducing significant clinical and histological responses in the majority of those treated, and in some patients a prolonged response is produced. in certain select head and neck malignancies, photodynamic therapy has an important role as a treatment modality.
polymyositis, pulmonary fibrosis and autoantibodies to aminoacyl-trna synthetase enzymes. the clinical and laboratory features of 29 patients who had one of three anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase autoantibodies, anti-jo1 (histidyl-trna synthetase), anti-pl12 (alanyl-trna synthetase) or anti-pl7 (threonyl-trna synthetase) were analysed and compared with the findings of other published reports. these autoantibodies were found to be associated with a syndrome delineated by inflammatory myositis (24 patients) and pulmonary fibrosis (23 of 29), but also including inflammatory arthritis (26/29), keratoconjunctivitis sicca (17/29), sclerodactyly (21/29), raynaud's phenomenon (27/29), hepatitis (8/29) and subcutaneous calcinosis (7/29). the most important clinical determinant of outcome in this group of patients was the severity of the interstitial pulmonary disease. no patient fulfilled the classification criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus, although 10 had autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens including ro, la, rnp, and sm, and two patients had anti-dsdna antibodies. although it seems unlikely that anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase antibodies are directly responsible for causing disease, they may provide an important clue to the aetiology of this unusual syndrome.
pathologic bronchial vasculature in a case of massive hemoptysis due to chronic bronchitis. the cause of bleeding in a patient with recurrent massive hemoptysis was not apparent after bronchoscopy and gross examination of the lobectomy specimen. histologic submission of all major bronchi uncovered dilated, tortuous bronchial arteries just below the bronchial mucosa with sites of both current and healing arterial rupture. this bronchial arterial abnormality is common to several chronic pulmonary diseases, but is rarely diagnosed as a cause of massive hemoptysis. careful pathologic examination of major bronchi in the setting of hemoptysis of unknown causation is recommended.
endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy revisited. arytenoidectomy is currently the most reliable method of treating patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis. although both endoscopic and external approaches have been described, the endoscopic laser technique is more desirable because it requires no incision and allows for the immediate assessment of airway size. eleven patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis treated by endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy were presented in 1984. at that time, 10 of the 11 patients had been successfully decannulated. follow-up on that group of patients revealed that 7 of the 10 successfully treated patients remain decannulated with a good airway, although 2 of these patients required a revision procedure to excise a granuloma. one patient failed at 15 months and has failed two subsequent revision operations, and 2 patients have been lost to follow-up. since 1984, 17 additional patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis have been treated by the authors using the same endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy technique; all have been successfully managed, with a minimum follow-up of 3 years. the technique of this operation will be reviewed. this study demonstrates the clinical usefulness of endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy in the treatment of bilateral vocal cord paralysis.
unknown primary squamous cell carcinoma metastatic to the neck. we analyzed retrospectively 157 cases of metastatic neck squamous cell carcinoma from unknown primary sites, treated with surgery, radiotherapy, excisional biopsy, and combined modalities. median follow-up was 74 months, and overall actuarial survival was 55% at 5 years. the surgery-treated group, despite a higher rate of manifesting primary tumors, had significantly better survival at 5 years compared with those receiving radiation therapy, of whom 23% had residual disease after treatment. primary tumors were discovered during follow-up in 16% overall. different treatments yielded comparable results in lower-staged neck disease (nx, n1, n2a), while surgery appeared more effective in controlling advanced disease (n2b, n3a). factors that affected survival include neck stage, connective tissue invasion, and presence of recurrent or residual disease after treatment.
gallbladder perforation and bile leakage: percutaneous treatment. three patients with spontaneous gallbladder perforation and one with an iatrogenic bile leak causing bile peritonitis were treated successfully by means of percutaneous catheter drainage. three patients had cholelithiasis as the cause of perforation; the fourth patient had previously undergone gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether lavage and developed bile peritonitis a few hours after removal of the catheter. in three patients, a percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter provided successful decompression; in the fourth patient, drainage was performed with a percutaneous sump catheter in the subhepatic space adjacent to the gallbladder. no specific complications occurred. follow-up was performed at 1, 12, 22, and 59 months, respectively. to date, one of the four patients has undergone elective cholecystectomy (1 month after drainage). the remainder of the patients are asymptomatic. this preliminary experience suggests that the severe complication of gallbladder perforation and bile leakage may be treated, at least temporarily, by means of percutaneous drainage.
primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder: favorable prognostic significance of deoxyribonucleic acid diploidy measured by flow cytometry. flow cytometric nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis was done successfully on 38 specimens of primary bladder adenocarcinoma treated between 1954 and 1985. of the specimens 10 (26%) were deoxyribonucleic acid diploid, 8 (21%) were tetraploid and 20 (53%) were aneuploid. distribution of ploidy patterns between the 14 histological low grade and 24 high grade tumors was similar. of 38 tumors 35 (92%) showed muscle invasion. one tumor arose in a previously exstrophied bladder, 10 were of urachal origin and 27 arose in an anatomically normal bladder. of the urachal origin tumors 80% were deoxyribonucleic acid aneuploid. at 5 and 10 years after diagnosis 80 and 70%, respectively, of the patients with diploid tumors were free of disease. by contrast, at 5 and 10 years after treatment only 20 and 12%, respectively, of the patients with nondiploid tumors have not had disease progression (p less than 0.001 log-rank test). none of the 6 patients with diploid, high grade, high stage, muscle invasive tumors had subsequent progression. in contrast, 16 of 17 patients (94%) with high grade, high stage, nondiploid tumors had either local or distant tumor recurrence (p less than 0.0005). nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy pattern appears to be the most significant prognostic information currently available to stratify expected prognosis for patients with muscle invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder. this test probably should be a standard tool in the clinical management of patients with this rare bladder malignancy.
endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse. the recognized endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse are reviewed on an organ by organ basis. the organ systems for which the most information is available (liver, heart, brain) are presented first followed by those where the information base is less.
characteristics of an elderly driving population referred to a geriatric assessment center. a retrospective, case-control study was performed to determine the characteristics of elderly drivers referred to an outpatient geriatric assessment center. it was hypothesized that the driving population was operating at a higher cognitive and functional level than nondrivers. one hundred eighty-two subjects meeting the entry criteria were studied. twenty-three percent of the subjects were driving at the time of their assessment. compared to nondrivers, drivers were younger (p = .0001), were more likely to be male (p = .003), scored higher on a mental status examination (p = .0001), and were more independent in physical and instrumental activities of daily living (p less than .0001). despite these findings, the mean folstein mini-mental score for drivers (23.7) was below normal; 40% of drivers were diagnosed as having alzheimer's dementia at the time of their evaluation, and over 26% of the drivers needed help with either dressing or bathing. the frequency of impaired elderly drivers in this referral setting was high. the authors conclude that conditions that affect the driving task are common in geriatric assessment centers. prospective studies of elderly drivers are needed to answer the difficult question of who among the elderly should drive.
correction of metabolic acidosis in experimental cpr: a comparative study of sodium bicarbonate, carbicarb, and dextrose. study objective: carbicarb, sodium bicarbonate, and 5% dextrose were compared for effects on resuscitability in a canine model of electromechanical dissociation after ventricular fibrillation. design/interventions: 21 healthy mongrel dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital, intubated, and mechanically supported. they were instrumented to measure heart rate, arterial pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, right atrial pressure, cardiac output, and arterial and mixed venous blood gases. the dogs were then subjected to a protocol that consisted of three successive cpr episodes. during each episode they were treated with repeated injections of one of the three substances, randomly chosen. after two minutes of ventricular fibrillation and four minutes of electromechanical dissociation, cpr was started with a thumper (rate, 60; duty cycle, 50%). if recovery was not obtained after five minutes of cpr, 1 meq/kg carbicarb or sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml d5w was injected in the right atrium. half the dose of the same substance was injected every five minutes thereafter; 1 mg epinephrine was also injected every five minutes until recovery. hemodynamic and gasometric evaluations were performed five and 20 minutes after recovery. this later evaluation served as baseline for the next cpr episode. measurements and main results: the duration and success rates of cpr are similar in the three cpr groups. hemodynamic parameters were also similar during recovery. bicarbicarb and sodium bicarbonate increased bicarbonate levels and corrected ph in the arterial and mixed venous blood. there was no difference in the blood gas values after carbicarb and sodium bicarbonate. conclusion: in this model of cardiac arrest, carbicarb was not superior to sodium bicarbonate in the correction of metabolic acidosis during cpr.
differential effects of continuous versus intermittent suction on tracheal tissue. the purpose of this study was to determine the differential effect of continuous versus intermittent application of negative pressure on tracheal tissue during endotracheal suctioning. the sample consisted of 12 mongrel dogs, randomly assigned to group 1 (n = 5), continuous suction, or group 2 (n = 5), intermittent suction. all animals were orally intubated (40f endotracheal tube). two control animals were intubated and not suctioned. animals in group 1 and 2 were suctioned every 15 minutes for 4 hours for a total of 16 suction passes. endotracheal suctioning was performed by using a 14f suction catheter either continuously (10 seconds) or intermittently (2 seconds with, 1 second without for a total of 10 seconds) at a suction pressure of 200 mm hg and a suction flow rate of 16 l/min. tracheal tissue samples were examined for simplified and major simplified damage, ulceration, and ulceration with necrosis. results indicated that all forms of damage were present with both suctioning techniques. no significant differences were found between group 1 and group 2 (wilcoxon rank sum) for any of the alterations. results indicate that both continuous and intermittent application of negative pressure with endotracheal suction produces significant damage to tracheal tissue.
future directions in vasodilator therapy for heart failure. vasodilator therapy has become a major pharmacologic approach for improving left ventricular function, and consequently, vasodilator drugs are being used increasingly in the treatment of heart failure. ideally, vasodilator drugs used in the long-term management of heart failure should show clearly defined pharmacodynamic effects. these include reduced impedance to left ventricular ejection, increased venous capacitance, increased left ventricular ejection fraction and reduced heart size, absence of neurohormonal stimulation, and slowed progression of left ventricular dysfunction. the mechanisms of action and sites of activity of the various vasodilator drugs currently available vary considerably, and none as yet has proved ideal for the treatment of heart failure or hypertension. the complexity surrounding the multiple vasoconstrictor mechanisms involved in heart failure has led to a rationale for combined vasodilator therapy and certain combinations are discussed. from a therapeutic standpoint, the development of drugs with multiple mechanisms of action is particularly attractive. flosequinan is a new vasodilator agent whose cellular mechanism of action remains uncertain. flosequinan has the advantage of being able to relax both arterial and venous beds and as such may be particularly beneficial in the treatment of heart failure.
vaccination against hepatitis b and protection against chronic viral carriage in the gambia. 358 children in the gambian villages of keneba and manduar, where hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection is endemic, were vaccinated with plasma-derived vaccine against hbv according to one of four regimens and followed for up to 4 years. two regimens by which vaccine was injected intradermally into children between 0 and 4 years old led to peak geometric mean (95% ci) concentrations of antibody against hbv surface antigen of 270 (202-358) and 555 (418-748) mlu/ml. the third regimen--intramuscular vaccination of children aged between 0 and 4 years--gave geometric mean peak antibody concentrations of 926 (765-1122) mlu/ml. a fourth regimen was intramuscular vaccination of children between 1 and 9 months old, which gave geometric mean antibody concentrations of 5431 (3903-75,456) mlu/ml. despite these widely divergent responses and a 89% decay in antibody over the first 2 years, vaccination against hbv was 97% effective in preventing chronic infection. vaccination was less effective in preventing uncomplicated infection: 5.3% of 264 vaccinees in keneba and 19.1% of 94 vaccinees in manduar tested positive for antibody to hbv core antigen. these "breakthrough infections" did not differ in frequency between regimens, and were associated with low initial antibody responses and chronic maternal carriage of hbv.
the interferon system in carcinoma of the cervix. effect of radiation and chemotherapy. thirteen patients with advanced carcinoma of the cervix were studied for parameters of the interferon system compared with 40 age-matched and sex-matched controls. all patients had measurable serum interferon levels; controls did not. all patients had non-antibody-type interferon-inhibitory activity, and controls had none. interferon-synthesizing potential was higher in controls than in patients. after successful radiation and chemotherapy, these parameters normalized in the patients. no change was seen in one patient who did not respond to therapy.
left ventricular asynchrony: an indicator of regional myocardial dysfunction. there is a marked heterogeneity of myocardial wall thickening within the left ventricle and among different individuals. it is therefore difficult to detect regional myocardial dysfunction from absolute values of systolic wall thickening. we tested whether the extent of left ventricular asynchrony during ischemia and reperfusion can be used to quantify the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction when nonischemic baseline function is not known. in six anesthetized, open-chest dogs regional myocardial wall thickness was measured by means of sonomicrometry under control conditions, at three degrees of ischemic dysfunction (mild, moderate, and severe), and after release of a 15-minute occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery, when degrees of moderate and mild reperfusion dysfunction similar to the preceding ischemic dysfunction were present. two indexes of left ventricular asynchrony were calculated: (1) postejection thickening (pet) and (2) the phase difference of the first fourier harmonic of posterior versus anterior myocardial wall motion (pd). systolic myocardial wall thickening was decreased from 15.3 +/- 3.1 (standard deviation) % (control value) to 9.7 +/- 1.4% (mild ischemia), 4.2 +/- 1.6% (moderate ischemia), and -3.7 +/- 3.1% (severe ischemia). conversely pet increased from 0.02 +/- 0.04 mm (control value) to 0.15 +/- 0.22 mm (mild ischemia), 0.19 +/- 0.15 mm (moderate ischemia), and 0.50 +/- 0.26 mm (severe ischemia). pd increased from 9 +/- 28 degrees (control value) to 22 +/- 19 degrees (mild ischemia), 54 +/- 18 degrees (moderate ischemia), and 107 +/- 21 degrees (severe ischemia). after release of the 15-minute left circumflex coronary artery occlusion, pet and pd recovered to 0.34 +/- 0.19 mm and 36 +/- 24 degrees (moderate dysfunction) and 0.25 +/- 0.31 mm and 29 +/- 8 degrees (mild dysfunction), respectively. there were inverse linear relationships between systolic wall thickening and pet (r = -0.86, p less than 0.001) and between systolic wall thickening and pd (r = -0.87, p less than 0.001). inotropic stimulation by postextrasystolic potentiation increased regional systolic myocardial posterior and anterior wall thickening but did not alter the extent of left ventricular asynchrony. thus, when normal baseline function is not known, the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction at a given inotropic state can be determined by analysis of left ventricular asynchrony. there was no significant correlation between the extent of pet and pd during ischemia and at early reperfusion and the recovery of contractile function at late reperfusion. thus pet does not provide a prospective marker for the functional outcome of reperfusion.
reoperative versus conservative management for gastrointestinal fistulas. development of a fistula is a serious complication. it is necessary to identify its anatomic and pathologic features, as these can influence the outcome of treatment independent of the primary disease. electrolyte abnormalities should be addressed as volume deficits are being restored. sepsis, the most common cause of death in patients with fistulas, must be controlled, and the skin must be protected. reoperation and conservative management are not opposing forms of therapy but rather are complementary.
lack of effect of induced menses on symptoms in women with premenstrual syndrome background. no physiologic abnormality of the luteal phase has been consistently demonstrated in women with premenstrual syndrome (pms). using the progesterone antagonist mifepristone, we truncated the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle in a blinded fashion to evaluate the relation of the events of the late luteal phase to the symptoms of pms. methods. fourteen women with pms were given mifepristone (12.5 or 25 mg per kilogram of body weight) by mouth on the seventh day after the surge of luteinizing hormone. on the sixth through the eighth days after the surge, they also received injections of either placebo or human chorionic gonadotropin (2000 iu). seven women with pms received placebo instead of both mifepristone and human chorionic gonadotropin. all the women completed daily questionnaires measuring a variety of mood-related and somatic symptoms. results. mifepristone consistently induced menses. the women receiving only mifepristone had plasma progesterone levels like those of the follicular phase (less than 3 nmol per liter) within four days, whereas all the other women had plasma progesterone levels characteristic of the luteal phase (greater than 8 nmol per liter) for at least seven days after treatment. in all three groups, the severity of symptoms was significantly higher after treatment than before, according to an analysis of variance with repeated measures. the level and pattern of the ratings of symptom severity were similar in all treatment groups. conclusions. neither the timing nor the severity of pms symptoms was altered by mifepristone-induced menses or luteolysis. the temporal association of typical pms symptoms with an artificially induced follicular phase suggests that endocrine events during the late luteal phase do not directly generate the symptoms of pms.
magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents: theory and application to the central nervous system. the theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging contrast agents are reviewed, and their current applications to the central nervous system (cns) and their future applications are discussed. profound differences exist between contrast agents used for mr imaging and computerized tomography (ct). in mr imaging, the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten t1 and t2 relaxation times. this in turn results in signal intensity changes. the lanthanide metal, gadolinium, in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine, has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for mr imaging. magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine. initially, it was thought that signal characteristics on mr imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology. it was soon found that mr studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them. the recent development of contrast agents for mr imaging has allowed this modality to surpass ct for the evaluation of most cns lesions. at present, contrast-enhanced mr imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas, pituitary lesions, meningeal disease, primary and secondary brain tumors, active multiple sclerosis, intradural spinal neoplasms, intramedullary spinal disease, and postoperative states in both the spine and brain. even when contrast-enhanced ct can detect the same abnormalities, evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on mr imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information, especially prior to surgery. future developments of contrast material for mr imaging include non-gadolinium compounds, intrathecal contrast media, cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation, and, possibly, antibody-labeled contrast agents.
postcardiotomy mechanical circulatory support in the elderly. the role of mechanical circulatory support after cardiac operations in elderly patients is not clearly established. between november 1985 and july 1989, 18 patients 65 years of age or older (mean age, 71 years; range, 65 to 82 years) were treated after cardiotomy with a centrifugal vortex or pneumatic mechanical ventricular assist device. this group comprised 1.9% of the 926 patients 65 years of age or older undergoing cardiac surgical procedures and 69% of the 26 patients requiring postcardiotomy support during this interval. before institution of mechanical support, all patients were receiving maximal inotropic support and 16 patients had intraaortic balloon pumps inserted. univentricular support was used in 9 patients (6 left, 3 right) and biventricular support in 9 patients. the mean duration of support was 45 hours (range, 8 to 118 hours). twelve patients (67%) were successfully weaned, 8 (44%) were discharged from the hospital, and 6 (33%) remain alive 11 to 31 months postoperatively. four of the 6 survivors are in new york heart association class i, 1 is in class ii, and 1 is in class iv. the combined registry for ventricular assist device support has recently reported an overall survival rate of 12% in patients 65 to 70 years of age and 6% in those older than 70 years. our results are comparable with those reported for younger patients and justify the use of postcardiotomy ventricular assist device support in the elderly.
increased sympathetic outflow in cirrhosis and ascites: direct evidence from intraneural recordings. objective: to determine if central sympathetic outflow is increased in patients with cirrhosis and ascites. patients: eleven patients with cirrhosis and ascites, 8 patients with cirrhosis but without ascites, and 7 age-matched and 8 young healthy volunteers. methods: with subjects supine, direct microneurographic recordings of efferent post-ganglionic muscle sympathetic nerve activity were obtained from the peroneal nerve, and sympathetic burst frequency was compared with subjects' blood pressure, heart rate, sodium excretion, catecholamines, and plasma renin activity. all patients with cirrhosis were studied at least 5 days after withdrawal from all medications and after 7 days of a 20 mmol/d sodium, 1-l fluid-restricted diet. age-matched volunteers were studied after 7 days of 20 mmol/d sodium intake and young healthy volunteers after 7 days of 150 mmol/d sodium intake. results: sympathetic nerve activity in ascitic patients (65 +/- 15 bursts/min; mean +/- sd) was markedly increased, whether compared with patients with cirrhosis but without ascites (34 +/- 16 bursts/min; p less than 0.001), age-matched healthy volunteers on similar sodium intake (27 +/- 22 bursts/min; p less than 0.001), or young healthy subjects (21 +/- 10 bursts/min; p less than 0.001). the frequency of muscle sympathetic nerve discharge was directly related to plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations, plasma renin activity, and heart rate, all of which were increased in those patients with cirrhosis and ascites, and inversely related to 24-hour urinary sodium excretion, the fractional excretion of sodium, and subjects' pulse pressures. sympathetic nerve activity fell from 78 to 6 bursts/min in one patient after liver transplantation. conclusions: this study provides the first direct evidence that elevated plasma norepinephrine concentrations in patients with cirrhosis and ascites are due to increased central sympathetic outflow. sympathetic nerve activity is not increased in patients with cirrhosis but without ascites. because there were direct positive correlations of sympathetic nerve activity with plasma norepinephrine concentrations, plasma epinephrine concentrations, plasma renin activity, and heart rate, the increase in central sympathetic outflow in patients with cirrhosis and ascites appears generalized and not restricted to muscle nerves. the anti-natriuretic effects of parallel increases in renal and muscle sympathetic nerve activity could account for the inverse correlation between muscle sympathetic nerve activity and sodium excretion.
rib infarcts and acute chest syndrome in sickle cell diseases. in the absence of evidence for pneumonia or pulmonary embolus, primary pulmonary infarction has been assumed to be the cause of the syndrome of chest pain, fever, and pulmonary infiltrate on chest x-ray that commonly complicates sickle cell anaemia. to find out whether the syndrome might be due to rib infarction, 99mtc-diphosphonate bone scans were done. in the eleven episodes thus investigated (10 patients) the scans showed segmental areas of increased radionuclide uptake in ribs, indicative of bone infarction. a possible sequence of events is that the rib infarcts are primary and cause bone pain, followed by soft tissue reaction, pleuritis, and splinting. the resultant hypoventilation leads to atelectasis and subsequent development of the radiographic changes of the acute chest syndrome. prevention of hypoventilation and treatment of bone pain are important therapeutic goals.
pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension: prevalence and relation to splanchnic hemodynamics. the prevalence of pulmonary hypertension in 507 patients hospitalized with portal hypertension but without known pulmonary hypertension who underwent cardiac catheterization was prospectively studied. ten (2%) of these patients, 6 of whom were clinically asymptomatic, had primary pulmonary hypertension. second, 26 patients with symptomatic pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension were reviewed. pulmonary hypertension occurred later after diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with a surgical shunt (10 patients) than in those without a shunt (147 +/- 49 vs. 44 +/- 27 months; p less than 0.0001). cardiac index correlated inversely with pulmonary arterial pressure (r = -0.45; p less than 0.01) and was lower in the 5 patients who died of pulmonary hypertension than in the 5 who died of liver failure (1.52 +/- 0.14 vs. 3.69 +/- 1.88 l/min.m2; p less than 0.05). third, systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics were compared in 285 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and 29 controls. no significant relation was found between elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and increased portal pressure, zzygos blood flow, or cardiac index. pulmonary hypertension is considerably more frequent than was previously estimated in patients with portal hypertension. the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension could increase with the duration of portal hypertension without any clear relation to the degree of portal hypertension, hepatic failure, or amount of blood shunted.
prolonged treatment of children with chronic hepatitis b with recombinant alpha 2a-interferon: a controlled, randomized study. a prospective study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of alpha-interferon in 20 children with biopsy-proven hbsag/hbeag/hbv-dna-positive, anti-delta-negative chronic hepatitis. patients were randomized to receive alpha 2a-interferon (inf), 3 mu im three times weekly for 12 months, or no treatment (10 patients per group). five patients receiving ifn showed a marked decrease or negativization of hbv-dna during treatment. at the end of the study (after 18 month), three patients lost hbv-dna permanently, and two of them seroconverted to hbeab 10 and 11 months after disappearance of hbv-dna with normalization of aminotransferase values. in the control group, one patient had spontaneous clearance of hbv-dna with conversion to hbeab and normalization of aminotransferase levels. all treated patients had a febrile reaction in the first month of treatment. the dose of ifn had to be decreased in two patients and was discontinued for persistent intolerance in one of them. patients who showed a decreased viral replication had higher initial biochemical and histological activity than nonresponders. the data suggest that ifn treatment may favorably influence the progression of chronic b hepatitis in children with a history of acute hepatitis and active chronic disease.
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy. cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person, presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition. for this reason, patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically. since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy (nine women and two men, mean age 73 years) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy. nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage, which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times, the frontal lobes four times, the temporal lobes four times, and the occipital lobes twice. these nine patients underwent hematoma removal, with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage. six patients improved neurologically, and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period. during follow-up in seven patients (median 11 months, range 1 week to 74 months) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve. two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia, also without surgical complications. this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures, and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma.
intestinal ischemia complicating abdominal aortic surgery. a 9-year experience with 2137 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic reconstruction was reviewed to determine both the incidence of intestinal ischemia and the clinical, anatomic, and technical factors associated with this complication of aortic surgery. a total of 24 (1.1%) patients had overt intestinal ischemia, documented by reoperation or endoscopic findings. of these, colon ischemia occurred in 19 (0.9%) and small bowel ischemia developed in 5 (0.2%) patients. the incidence after elective operation for aneurysmal or occlusive disease did not differ, but patients with ruptured aneurysms and those undergoing reoperative procedures for total graft replacement were at higher risk. preoperative angiography was most helpful in ascertaining risk. ligation of a patent inferior mesenteric artery was the most common (74%) feature in patients with colon ischemia. with preexisting inferior mesenteric artery occlusion, impairment of collateral circulation was attributable to superior mesenteric artery disease, dissection or retractor injury, prior colon resection, or exclusion of hypogastric perfusion. bloody diarrhea was the most frequent postoperative symptom and colonoscopy the most reliable means of diagnosis. one half of patients with colon ischemia required resection after late recognition of perforation. all cases of small bowel ischemia were related to superior mesenteric artery disease or injury or use of suprarenal clamping. the overall mortality rate was 25% but rose to 50% if bowel resection was required. intestinal ischemia remains an infrequent but serious complication of aortic surgery. despite a multifactorial cause, identification of patients at increased risk can lead to operative strategies to reduce its occurrence.
left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis. an unusual case of staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented. echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color doppler test. emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient's preoperative course. surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence.
preperitoneal herniorrhaphy for the acutely incarcerated groin hernia. elective preperitoneal or posterior repair for recurrent groin hernias and primary femoral hernias has been shown to be a technically advantageous approach. in addition to the ease of inguinal floor and femoral canal assessment, scar tissue from prior anterior herniorrhaphy can be avoided. the emergency management of the acutely incarcerated or strangulated hernia of the groin using this approach has not been addressed. during a 30-month period, all patients with a diagnosis of acute incarceration of a groin hernia (n = 28) were surgically managed using either the anterior approach (aa) (n = 14) or the preperitoneal approach (pa) (n = 14). two patients with strangulated intestine in the aa group required an additional midline incision for bowel evaluation and resection. intestinal evaluation was easily accomplished through the same incision in four patients in the pa group. the preperitoneal approach also allowed proximal control of incarcerated or strangulated viscera, thus avoiding excessive manipulation of gangrenous or necrotic intestine, potential spillage of infected contents into the peritoneal cavity, and entry of bacteria, toxins, potassium, and the metabolic waste products of anaerobic metabolism into the systemic circulation during hernia reduction. there have been no recurrences in either group, and minor complications, such as wound infection and cellulitis, in the two groups are not statistically different.
antisocial alcoholics: are there clinically significant diagnostic subtypes? of 360 alcoholic male inpatients assessed with a diagnostic interview, 106 (29%) were found to have a co-occurring diagnosis of antisocial personality. of these asp alcoholics, 86 were further subdivided into those with only asp and alcoholism (n = 38), those with asp, alcoholism and drug dependence (n = 30) and those with asp, alcoholism and depression (n = 18; 9 of whom also had drug abuse). comparisons among the three antisocial groups indicated that they differed in measures of psychopathology and course and severity of alcoholism. when the asp groups were compared to an alcoholism only group, an earlier onset, more rapid course and increased percentage of many alcoholism symptoms were found in the asp groups, confirming the findings of other studies.
an analysis of randomized trials evaluating the effect of cholesterol reduction on total mortality and coronary heart disease incidence. the primary aim of this study was to estimate the relation between cholesterol reduction and total mortality and coronary heart disease (chd) incidence. secondarily, the clinical issues of whether the efficacy of cholesterol lowering is dependent on the treatment modality, presence of chd at baseline, or the simultaneous introduction of other interventions was explored. all randomized clinical intervention trials of cholesterol reduction were used in an overview analysis of total mortality rate and chd incidence; analysis was performed with weighted linear regression. the trials include those that used primary and secondary intervention, diet and drugs, and single or multifactor design. nineteen trials were analyzed for total mortality, and of the 19, 16 were analyzed for chd incidence rate. net difference in cholesterol change between study groups was used as the independent variable, and the three previously mentioned dichotomous design characteristics were used as additional independent variables. for every 1% reduction in cholesterol, an estimated 2.5% reduction in chd incidence is indicated (95% cl: 1.1, 3.9). with regard to chd drug trials tended toward better efficiency in cholesterol lowering than did dietary trials. with regard to total mortality, this efficiency was higher in secondary than in primary preventive trials. the efficiency was also somewhat dependent on the baseline cholesterol level. this study shows that cholesterol reduction is effective in lowering chd incidence, but cholesterol reduction must be at least 8-9% to be effective in lowering total mortality.
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis. we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms, hyperplastic gastric polyps, and active chronic gastritis. biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori (hp) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr. after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate, both became asymptomatic, one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp. these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis.
elderly patients with congestive heart failure under prepaid care. purpose: because of concern about the quality of care received by medicare patients in health maintenance organizations (hmos), the care of patients with congestive heart failure (chf) in eight hmos was compared with the care of fee-for-service (ffs) medicare cases. patients and methods: we compared the care of 170 patients with chf enrolled in one of eight medicare hmos with the care of 191 similar ffs patients. panels of expert physicians developed criteria for evaluating quality of care, and specially trained nurse clinicians abstracted medical records. results: outpatient evaluation and management were similar in both settings, although hmo patients were significantly more likely to be advised to restrict salt intake. however, ffs patients with uncontrolled hypertension were more likely to have their medication regimens changed (62% versus 36%, p less than 0.01). ejection fractions were obtained equally as often, and inpatient management was similar for both groups. nonetheless, hmo providers scheduled follow-up visits within 1 week of hospital discharge more often (42% versus 27%, p less than 0.01). conclusions: this study suggests that financial incentives of prepaid care are not detrimental to most aspects of care for chf patients. more rapid follow-up after hospital discharge for patients with chf suggests that hmos may be more effective in delivering continuity of care for patients with chronic illness.
renal transplants: can acute rejection and acute tubular necrosis be differentiated with mr imaging? magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was used in 40 renal transplant recipients to determine whether this modality can enable distinction of acute tubular necrosis (atn) and acute rejection by means of corticomedullary differentiation (cmd). each patient underwent initial mr imaging after allograft renal transplantation. twenty-nine of these 40 patients (72%) also underwent subsequent follow-up mr imaging. seventeen studies were obtained during episodes of atn; 12 of these studies (71%) showed poor cmd. eleven studies were obtained during episodes of acute rejection; eight of these studies (73%) showed poor cmd. in addition, six of seven studies (86%) showing various combinations of renal disease (atn, acute rejection, chronic rejection, and cyclosporine toxicity) also showed poor cmd. loss of cmd is reversible after improvement of atn and acute rejection. because loss of cmd is a nonspecific though sensitive sign reflecting renal transplant dysfunction, mr imaging is of limited value in the differentiation of atn from acute rejection.
helicobacter pylori infection: a simplified diagnostic approach. we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic finding of nodular antritis and rapid urease test (rut) in order to simplify the approach to the diagnosis of helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection. forty-four consecutive patients (mean age 7.9 yr, range 6-13 yr) referred because of recurrent abdominal pain as the main symptom, were prospectively investigated for the presence of h. pylori. h. pylori positivity or negativity was defined as the concordance of two of the following tests: rut, microbiologic culture, and histologic examination on bioptic samples. rut sensitivity was 100%, whereas specificity was 87.5%. the presence of nodular antritis had a sensitivity of 96.4% and specificity of 87.5% in h. pylori infection diagnosis. the predictivity value of combined rut and nodular antritis, whether positive or negative, was 100%. only in case of discordance do we suggest the utilization of other expensive tools for diagnosis of h. pylori infection.
esophageal and gastric endoscopy in critically ill patients. how can it help you? bleeding from the upper gastrointestinal tract in a critically ill patient is a tough diagnostic situation. endoscopy can help physicians determine the cause of bleeding and can also provide several therapeutic options. the authors discuss these applications of the current technology.
induction of mixed erythroid-megakaryocyte colonies and bipotential blast cell colonies by recombinant human erythropoietin in serum-free culture. the effects of recombinant human erythropoietin (rep) on murine hematopoietic progenitors were studied using a serum-free culture. a high concentration of rep stimulated the formation of mixed erythroid-megakaryocyte colonies (em colonies) and blast cell colonies, as well as erythroid colonies, erythroid bursts, and megakaryocyte colonies from normal mouse bone marrow cells. direct effects of rep on em colony, megakaryocyte colony, and erythroid burst formation were confirmed by depletion of accessory cells such as t cells, b cells, and macrophages from crude bone marrow cells, and inhibition of the colonies by the addition of rabbit anti-rep antibody to the culture in a dose-dependent fashion. replating experiments were performed to confirm the differentiating ability of blast cell colonies grown in the presence of rep. most of the blast cell colonies yielded not only secondary erythroid colonies but also megakaryocyte colonies in the presence of 2 iu/ml rep. some of the blast cell colonies produced secondary em colonies in the presence of 16 iu/ml rep of 2 iu/ml rep plus interleukin-3, although no granulocyte-macrophage colonies were found in the secondary culture. these results suggest that ep acts not only as a late-acting factor that is specific for erythroid progenitors, but also as a bipotential em-stimulating factor for murine hematopoietic cells.
surgical management of 552 carcinomas of the extrahepatic bile ducts (gallbladder and periampullary tumors excluded). results of the french surgical association survey. five hundred fifty-two cases of primary carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts (gallbladder and periampullary tumors excluded) collected from 55 surgical centers were reviewed retrospectively. three hundred seven patients (56%) had upper-third lesions (proximal carcinoma), whereas 71 (13%) and 101 (18%), respectively, had middle-third and lower-third bile duct carcinomas. the remaining patients had diffuse lesions. resectability rates were 32% for upper-third localization compared to 47% and 51% for middle-third and lower-third localization, respectively. the operative mortality rate for proximal carcinomas was significantly lower with resection (16%) compared with palliative surgery (31%) (p less than 0.05). overall 1-year survival (operative deaths excluded) was 68% after tumor resection compared to 31% after palliative surgery (p less than 0.001). long-term results after surgical resection correlated with local and regional extension of the disease. the results of this study show that resection of extrahepatic bile duct carcinomas, particularly in an upper-third localization, often is associated with worthwhile long-term survival.
final report of the french multicenter phase ii study of the nitrosourea fotemustine in 153 evaluable patients with disseminated malignant melanoma including patients with cerebral metastases. one hundred sixty-nine patients with histologic evidence of disseminated malignant melanoma, including patients with cerebral metastases, were entered into a phase ii study of the nitrosourea fotemustine. the treatment regimen consisted of a 100 mg/m2 1 hour iv infusion every week for 3 consecutive weeks, followed by a 4- to 5-week rest period (induction therapy). in responding or stabilized patients, maintenance therapy consisted of 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks until the disease progressed. one hundred fifty-three patients were evaluable for response. three complete responses and 34 partial responses were observed (according to the world health organization criteria), leading to an objective response rate of 24.2% (95% confidence interval: 17.4% to 31.0%). responses were also documented on cerebral (25.0%), visceral (19.2%), or nonvisceral (31.8%) metastatic sites. the median duration of response was 22 weeks (range, 7 to 80 weeks). the objective response rate in previously untreated patients was 30.7% (19 of 62 patients). the main toxicity was hematologic with delayed and reversible leukopenia and/or thrombopenia. the objective response rate observed (especially in untreated patients), the activity on cerebral metastases, and the small amount of extra-hematologic toxicity encountered suggest that fotemustine is an effective drug in disseminated malignant melanoma.
phenobarbital and cerebral blood flow during hypertension in the newborn beagle. phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations (15 to 40 micrograms/ml serum) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages. although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial, phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles. in this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles. at anticonvulsant dosage, phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure. this phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis, and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis. phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow, with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure.
expression of murine renin genes in subcutaneous connective tissue. a renin promoter-large tumor antigen (t antigen) fusion gene was constructed to provide a reporter function for renin expression in transgenic mice. these transgenic mice gave rise to tumors in subcutaneous soft tissue, which was attributed to transgene expression at this site. an immunohistochemical analysis of transgenic fetuses from several independent lines revealed scattered t-antigen-containing mesenchymal cells and fibroblasts in the subcutaneous layer of the skin between the panniculus carnosus muscle of the skin and the skeletal muscle of the body wall. this localization is consistent with the location of overt tumorigenesis in adult mice. this pattern was specific for the renin-t antigen fusion gene as no immunohistochemical staining was observed in transgenic fetuses containing a heterologous promoter-t antigen fusion gene. northern blot analysis of tumor rna indicated that most of the tumors expressed both t antigen and the endogenous renin gene ren-1c. in addition, when multiple renin genes were introduced by crossing transgenic mice with nontransgenic dba/2j mice, which contain another allele of the ren-1 locus as well as the duplicated locus ren-2, the resultant tumors expressed the ren-2 gene. northern blots were then used to analyze renin expression in the subcutaneous tissue of normal mice. fully processed renin mrna was detected in eviscerated 15.5-day postcoitus fetal and newborn carcasses and in newborn skin. our data indicate that there is a renin-expressing cell population in fetal and newborn subcutaneous tissue.
dissection of the aorta associated with congenital malformation of the aortic valve. the association of congenital aortic valve malformation and aortic dissection is analyzed. over a 30 year period, 186 patients with non-iatrogenic aortic dissection were studied at necropsy. the aortic valve was tricuspid in 170 (91.4%), bicuspid in 14 (7.5%) and unicuspid in 2 (1.1%). among the 16 patients with aortic dissection and a congenitally malformed valve, the age at death ranged from 17 to 82 years (mean 52) and 13 (81%) were men. the entrance tear of the aortic dissection was located in the ascending aorta in all 16 patients with a malformed valve but in only 68% of those with a tricuspid aortic valve. the aortic valve was stenotic in 6 of the 16 patients with a congenitally malformed valve. fatal rupture of the false channel occurred after acute ascending aortic dissection in each of the 11 patients (none with healed dissection) who did not have operative therapy for the dissection. two of the 16 patients with a malformed valve compared with no patient with a tricuspid aortic valve had aortic isthmic coarctation. histologic sections of aorta from 10 patients disclosed severe degeneration of the elastic fibers of the media in 9 patients. thus, a congenitally malformed aortic valve appears to be present at least 5 times more frequently in adults with than in those without aortic dissection, and in our patients the entrance tear was always in the ascending aorta, which usually had severe loss of elastic fibers in its media.
aggressive blood conservation in coronary artery surgery: impact on patient care. data on 100 consecutive non-emergency coronary artery bypass (cabg) patients were analyzed retrospectively. sixty-nine patients received no homologous blood (group i). thirty-one patients received a total of 118 units of blood products averaging 2.23 units of red cells (group ii). the average red cell transfusion rate for all patients was 0.7 units per patient. the median age for group i was 61 and group ii was 68 years (p less than 0.05). the average number of grafts was the same for both (3 per patient) with 75% of group i and 58% of group ii receiving internal mammary artery (ima) grafts (p less than 0.05). twelve of the group ii patients who received intraoperative transfusions on cardiopulmonary bypass to maintain adequate hemoglobin levels were older and had lower admission hematocrits: 36 +/- 0.8% compared to 41 +/- 0.5% for all other patients (p less than 0.05). average postoperative blood loss was 889 +/- 38 ml for group i and 1077 +/- 104 ml for group ii (p less than 0.05). increased hemorrhage was correlated with bypass time and ima use but not with preoperative heparin administration, pre-existing risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, etc.), bleeding time, post-bypass clotting time, age or number of grafts. two patients in group ii and none in group i required exploration for excessive postoperative hemorrhage. mortality rate was 2% (both in group ii, neither transfusion related). discharge hematocrits were the same for all at 29.4 +/- 0.4%. among anemia-related postoperative symptoms, only sinus tachycardia was significantly higher in group i (20%) compared to group ii (6.5%).
survival in patients with large-bowel cancer. a population-based investigation from the melbourne colorectal cancer study. five-year survival data were obtained in 97 percent or 1105 of 1140 new patients with histologically confirmed colorectal adenocarcinoma during a 12-month period in 1981 and 1982, as part of a large comprehensive population-based study of colorectal cancer incidence, etiology, and survival, the melbourne colorectal cancer study. fifteen percent of patients were dukes' a stage, 32 percent were dukes' b, 25 percent were dukes' c, and 29 percent were dukes' d. at five years after diagnosis, the observed survival rate was 36 percent and the adjusted rate was 42 percent. dukes' staging was a highly discriminating factor in survival (p less than 0.001). survival rates were better in women than in men and better for patients with colon cancer than for patients with rectal cancer. survival by dukes' staging was not affected by colon subsite or by the tumor being the first and single tumor, metachronous tumor, or synchronous tumor. the survival of younger patients was better for dukes' stages a, b, and c, and worse for dukes' d. survival was worse in the presence of bowel perforation in dukes' c and d stages. within dukes' d (incurable cases), survival was best in the absence of hepatic metastases, slightly worse when only hepatic metastases were present, and poorest in the presence of both hepatic and extrahepatic metastases. statistical modeling of survival determinants other than staging indicated that cell differentiation had the largest effect (survival decreasing with poor cell differentiation), followed by site (survival worse for rectal cancer than colon cancer), then age (survival better for younger patients), while bowel perforation had the smallest effect on survival.
ventilatory effect of acute pulmonary hypothermia. the isolated effect of cooling the pulmonary circulation on ventilation was quantified in nine anesthetized dogs. the right pulmonary artery (rpa) was cannulated within the pericardium, and systemic blood was pumped from the left atrium to the rpa between, but not during, periods of cooling. cooled blood boluses were injected into the rpa under conditions in which either bolus temperature (5-35 degrees c) or volume (0-1.5 ml/kg body wt) varied. inspiratory time (ti), expiratory time (te), breath duration (tt), and peak integrated activity (peak) were determined from diaphragm emg. results for five postinjection breaths were converted to a percent of the values from five preinjection breaths. there was a linear relationship between bolus temperature and ti [r = 0.61, slope (x) = 0.59%/degrees c, p less than 0.001), te (r = 0.73, x = 1.43%/degrees c, p less than 0.001] as well as tt (r = 0.74, x = 1.10%/degrees c, p less than 0.001), whereas peak was unaffected (n = 9). when injection temperature was 5 degrees c, an inverse linear relationship existed between bolus volume and ti (r = 0.75, x = -15.2%.ml-1.kg-1, p less than 0.001) and te (r = 0.78, x = -23.4%.ml-1.kg-1, p less than 0.001) (n = 4). in two dogs tested the effect of bolus injection was minimal at residual volume and progressively increased with lung volume. the effect of cold bolus injection was eliminated after right vagotomy in three dogs. results indicate that cooling of some vagal receptor in the lung increases breathing frequency primarily by shortening te.
simultaneous or staged bilateral total knee replacements in rheumatoid arthritis. a prospective study. in a prospective study of 100 knee arthroplasties in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, simultaneous bilateral surgery was compared with staged bilateral replacements. all patients had improved function following their operations but those who had staged surgery only achieved maximum benefit after the second knee had been replaced. the complication rate was no greater for simultaneous surgery and we therefore advocate the method for those patients who require bilateral replacements.
long-term follow-up of medical versus surgical therapy for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a retrospective study in a retrospective analysis 139 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were followed up for 8.9 years (range 1 to 28 years). patients were divided into two groups: group 1 consisted of 60 patients with medical therapy and group 2 of 79 patients with surgical therapy (septal myectomy). groups 1 and 2 were subdivided according to the medical treatment. group 1a received propranolol, 160 mg/day (n = 20); group 1b verapamil, 360 mg/day (n = 18); and group 1c, no therapy (n = 22). group 2a received verapamil, 120 to 360 mg/day, after septal myectomy (n = 17) and group 2b had no medical therapy after surgery (n = 62). in group 1, 19 patients died (annual mortality rate 3.6%) and in group 2, 17 patients died (mortality rate 2.4%, p = ns). of the patients who died, approximately one half to two thirds in both groups 1 and 2 died suddenly and the other one half to one third died because of congestive heart failure. the 10 year cumulative survival rate was 67% in group 1, significantly smaller than that in group 2 (84%, p less than 0.05). in the subgroups, the 10 year survival rate was 67% in group 1a, 80% in 1b (p less than 0.05 versus 1a) and 65% in 1c (p less than 0.05 versus 1b). the 10 year survival rate was 100% in group 2a (p less than 0.05 versus 1a, 1b, 1c) and 78% in group 2b (p less than 0.05 versus 2a). it is concluded that cumulative survival rate is significantly better in surgically than in medically treated patients.
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells. we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor (achr) and to purified protein derivative (ppd) (of tuberculin) of hyperplastic thymus, thymoma, and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis (mg). hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells, whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend. thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus. furthermore, there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd (but not to achr), arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells. by contrast, both achr- and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients, which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells. cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd. however, the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above. our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere.
delayed endolymphatic hydrops and its relationship to meniere's disease. delayed endolymphatic hydrops (eh) can be characterized as having ipsilateral and contralateral types. they are similar in that both have early and late phases of otologic symptoms and that the early phase is a profound hearing loss in one ear. the late phases differ, however, in that the ipsilateral type develops the symptoms of eh (episodic vertigo) in the deaf ear and the contralateral type develops the symptoms of eh (fluctuating hearing loss and/or episodic vertigo) in the hearing ear. in more than half the cases of both types of delayed eh, the profound hearing losses in the early phase are simply discovered to be present in early childhood without a known time of onset. the temporal bones of two patients with contralateral delayed eh show pathologic changes in the deaf ears that are similar to those known to occur in mumps and measles labyrinthitis, whereas the pathologic changes in the hearing ears are similar to those known to occur in meniere's disease. these observations support the proposition that meniere's disease may occur as a delayed sequela of inner ear damage sustained during an attack of subclinical viral labyrinthitis occurring in childhood.
direct measurement of skeletal muscle fatigue in patients with chronic heart failure. skeletal muscle function was measured as force production and fatigue in both the quadriceps (a large locomotive muscle) and adductor pollicis (a small intrinsic hand muscle) in five healthy volunteers, five patients with mild chronic heart failure, and five patients with severe chronic heart failure. the quadriceps of patients with chronic heart failure had a reduced muscle cross sectional area, a reduced maximum isometric force production, and an increased tendency to fatigue. isometric force production and fatigue of the adductor pollicis, however, were not significantly different between the three groups under control conditions. but during circulatory occlusion fatigue in the adductor pollicis increased more in the patients with severe chronic heart failure. these differing findings in quadriceps and adductor pollicis suggest that skeletal muscle atrophy and reduced isometric force production are not a necessary consequence of chronic heart failure per se, because they were only present in the large locomotive muscle. the normal values for muscle fatigue observed in adductor pollicis in patients with chronic heart failure imply that skeletal muscle blood flow must increase normally during muscle activation when only a small muscle mass is used. these results are not compatible with the concept of a generalised impairment of normal vasodilatation within active skeletal muscle. in contrast, activation of a large muscle, such as quadriceps, results in the rapid onset of fatigue in patients with severe chronic heart failure. this fatigue may be related to the inability of the cardiovascular system to provide the required blood flow for the activation of a large muscle mass.
exocrine pancreatic function in chronic liver diseases. to confirm the respective influence of chronic alcoholism and liver disease on exocrine pancreatic function in cholecystokinin secretin (cs), tests were performed on patients with chronic liver cirrhosis (lc) and non-cirrhotic (nlc) disease of alcoholic (a) and nonalcoholic (na) etiology. results were compared in four subgroups (alc, n = 26; anlc, n = 45; nalc, n = 18; and nanlc, n = 43). volume of duodenal juice and bicarbonate output (bo) were increased and maximal bicarbonate concentration was decreased in alc, compared with those in normal controls. comparison of lc and nlc indicated that the volume, bo, and amylase output (ao) were greater in lc than in nlc of alcoholic etiology, but not in those of nonalcoholic etiology. the initial disappearance rate (kicg) of indocyanine green (icg) excretion correlated with a parameter of cs test in alcoholic liver disease (vs. volume: r = -0.51, p less than 0.01 vs bo: r = -0.40, p less than 0.01), but not in nonalcoholic liver disease. concurrent chronic pancreatitis with pain and definite exocrine insufficiency was observed in only one alc patient and in four anlc patients, but in none of the nonalcoholics. in alcoholic liver disease, exocrine pancreatic secretion tends to increase with severity of liver damage, but concurrence of definite chronic pancreatitis is not correlated with the severity.
the use of probenecid as a chemoprotector against cisplatin nephrotoxicity. probenecid inhibits cisplatin (cp) secretion in humans and protects against cp-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. the authors conducted a phase i trial of escalating doses of cp using probenecid as a chemoprotector. fifty-four courses of cp at doses ranging from 100 to 160 mg/m2 were given by 24-hour infusion to 36 patients. there was no renal impairment at any dose. ototoxicity, however, became the dose-limiting toxicity; 14 patients experienced a 20 or greater decibel (db) loss. seven percent of courses were associated with a leukocyte count of less than 1.5 x 10/microliters, and 19% with a platelet count of less than 50 x 10(3)/microliters. only three patients developed neurotoxicity. correlating pharmacokinetic data and toxicity, the authors found that high cumulative dose, area under the curve (auc) for unbound platinum, and cumulative auc were associated with ototoxicity and peripheral neuropathy. it was concluded that probenecid may protect against cp nephrotoxicity and warrants further investigation. its unique mechanism of action and lack of toxicity make it ideal to combine with other chemoprotectors.
adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump. we have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump. because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs, symptoms, or radiologic features, preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult, and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities.
effect of diltiazem and thromboxane a2 synthetase inhibitor (oky-046) on vessels following experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. in order to examine the functional changes in the vascular smooth muscle, the effects of a thromboxane a2 synthetase inhibitor (oky-046) and a calcium channel blocker (diltiazem) on vessels following subarachnoid hemorrhage, and the contractile activity of cerebral vessels with various vasoactive agents, were investigated by studying isometric tension recordings in rings of cat basilar artery. the maximum contractile activities of the vessels in response to noradrenalin and adrenaline during the course of subarachnoid hemorrhage were significantly less than those in the control group. on the other hand, the maximum contractile activity of the vessels in response to prostaglandin f2 alpha on the seventh day following subarachnoid hemorrhage was significantly augmented compared with that in the control group. a significant decline in the relaxation of responsiveness to diltiazem during the course of subarachnoid hemorrhage was observed compared with that of diltiazem in the control group. this responsiveness to vasoactive agents was not influenced by the application of oky-046. the present study reveals functional changes in vascular smooth muscle exposed to subarachnoid hemorrhage in response to vasoactive agents and a calcium entry blocker. thromboxane a2 may not be a significantly influential factor in the present results. it is suggested that cerebral vasospasm may well be related to functional changes of the arterial wall, which appear to be associated with derangement of the mechanisms of smooth muscle constriction and dilatation based on organic changes.
nonuniform regional deformation of the pericardium during the cardiac cycle in dogs. we hypothesized that local contact forces between the pericardium and the heart cause regional variation in pericardial deformation during the cardiac cycle, reflecting volume changes of the underlying cardiac chambers. to test this, we measured regional pericardial area over the right atrium (ra) and right ventricle (rv) with orthogonal pairs of sonomicrometers in six open-chest dogs. at a left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 5 mm hg, rv pericardial area paralleled rv volume, that is, shrinkage during ejection by 10 +/- 8% and expansion during filling. ra pericardial area was reciprocally related to rv pericardial area, with average expansion during ventricular ejection of 2 +/- 2%, thus paralleling ra volume during rv ejection. with volume loading, rv pericardial shrinkage during ejection increased to 14 +/- 6%, but the ra pericardial area change was no longer reciprocal (0 +/- 3% change during rv ejection). elimination of contact forces by cardiac tamponade resulted in both marked attenuation of rv pericardial area changes and synchronization of the rv and ra pericardial area pattern; that is, both shrank during rv ejection. in two additional dogs, measurement of pericardial area over left ventricle and atrium showed similar results. we conclude that dynamic pericardial contact forces cause regional variation in pericardial deformation, which reflects volume changes of the underlying chambers. these findings imply that the influence of the pericardium on filling and ejection may be more complex than previously recognized, varying both by chamber and dynamically over the course of the cardiac cycle.
primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton: an audit of the leeds regional bone tumour registry. an audit of the leeds regional bone tumour registry found that primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton constituted 90 of the 2004 cases (4.5%). thirty seven per cent occurred in the ribs, 32% in the scapulae, 11% in the thoracic vertebrae, 11% in the sternum, and 9% in the clavicles. malignant tumours were more common than benign (54 v 36) and occurred in an older population (mean ages 47 and 31 years). the scapula was the most common site for malignant lesions and the ribs the most common site for benign tumours. chondrosarcoma was the commonest tumour in older patients, fibrous dysplasia and plasmacytoma in the middle age group, and eosinophilic granuloma in children. presenting symptoms were a poor guide to whether the lesion was malignant or not. this and the small proportion of correct preoperative diagnoses indicate the need for early biopsy. bone tumour registries provide a valuable source of cumulative information about uncommon tumours and facilitate accurate diagnosis, teaching, and research.
in vitro and in vivo consequences of vla-2 expression on rhabdomyosarcoma cells. cloned integrin alpha 2 subunit complementary dna was expressed on human rhabdomyosarcoma (rd) cells to give a functional vla-2 (alpha 2 beta 1) adhesion receptor. the vla-2-positive rda2 cells not only showed increased adhesion to collagen and laminin in vitro, but also formed substantially more metastatic tumor colonies in nude mice after either intravenous or subcutaneous injection. these results show that a specific adhesion receptor (vla-2) can markedly enhance both experimental and spontaneous metastasis. in contrast to the metastasis results, there was no difference in either the in vitro growth rate or apparent in vivo tumorigenicity of rd and rda2 cells.
differential alpha-fetoprotein lectin binding in hepatocellular carcinoma. diagnostic utility at low serum levels. the reactivity of serum alpha-fetoprotein (afp) from 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) with immobilized lentil lectin was examined and found to be significantly greater (39% +/- 18%) than that of the same protein from seven patients with chronic liver disease (cld, 11.2% +/- 3.3%), seven with fulminant hepatic failure (fhf, 10% +/- 8.4%), and eight normal pregnant women (4.1% +/- 2.7%). the reactivity with concanavalin a (con a) was also significantly greater for afp from hcc patients (44.5% +/- 12.5%) than that from fhf patients (7.7% +/- 4%) and normal pregnant women (5.3% +/- 3.3%), but not from patients with cld. the reactivity with lentil lectin permitted distinction between those with hcc (31.3% +/- 14.1%) and those with uncomplicated cld (11.2% +/- 8.4%) even when the absolute levels of serum afp were in the same range (80-400 ng/ml). evaluation of the alterations by lectin binding methodology may be useful in overcoming problems associated with distinguishing between malignant and cld, particularly at moderate serum afp elevations.
en bloc transplantation of kidneys from donors weighing less than 15 kg. into adult recipients. en bloc transplantation of kidneys from donors who weighed less than 15 kg. into 20 adult patients is described. intraperitonealization of the medial kidney allowed adequate renal positioning and growth. graft venous thrombosis occurred in 1 patient and irreversible graft rejection occurred in 4 patients. graft survival was 65% with excellent function at a mean followup of 8.8 months. en bloc transplantation of pediatric cadaver kidney grafts in adults is an acceptable procedure.
epstein-barr virus associated oesophageal ulcers in aids. epstein-barr virus (ebv) associated ulceration has not previously been included in the differential diagnosis of oesophageal ulcers in aids. we report five cases of oesophageal ulceration in homosexual men with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom this was considered to be the most likely cause. dna in situ hybridisation studies showed ebv in biopsy material from three of four patients with oesophageal ulcers and in none of three controls. of other viruses studied, only human papillomavirus was present, and this was found in both patients and control subjects. these findings support the hypothesis that ebv is an aetiological factor in some cases of aids-associated oesophageal ulceration.
sympathovagal interaction during mental stress. a study using spectral analysis of heart rate variability in healthy control subjects and patients with a prior myocardial infarction. we tested the hypothesis that psychological stress testing in the clinical laboratory provokes changes in the sympathetic and vagal activities regulating heart rate that can be assessed noninvasively using spectral analysis of rr variability. to account for the effects on respiration produced by talking, this study was performed with two different procedures: the i.k.t. (i.e., a computer-controlled mental task that is performed in silence and does not entail human confrontation) and a stressful interview. finally, we assessed whether ischemic heart disease modifies the spectral changes induced by psychological stress by comparing a group of healthy subjects (age, 38 +/- 2 years) with a group of patients (age, 52 +/- 3 years) recovering from 1-month-old myocardial infarctions. the findings indicate that psychological stress induced marked changes in the sympathovagal balance, which moved toward sympathetic predominance. the low-frequency component of rr variability, a marker of sympathetic activity, increased from 58 +/- 5 normalized units (nu) to 68 +/- 3 nu with the i.k.t. and to 76 +/- 3 nu with the interview. this increase was absent in the group of post-myocardial infarction patients. however, arterial pressure increased significantly in both groups of subjects. the possibility of age playing an important role in determining the differences observed was disproved by the findings of a marked increase in low frequency with mental stimuli in an additional group of borderline hypertensive subjects with ages (55 +/- 2 years) comparable to those of post-myocardial infarction patients.
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. reoperation for pouch-related complications. the aim was to assess the value of reoperative surgery for pouch-related complications after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (ipaa) for chronic ulcerative colitis and familial adenomatous polyposis. between january 1981 and august 1989, 114 of 982 ipaa patients (12%) seen at the mayo clinic had complications directly related to ipaa that required reoperation. among the 114 patients, the complications prevented initial ileostomy closure in 33 patients (25%), occurred after ileostomy closure in 68 patients (60%), and delayed ileostomy closure in the remaining patients. the salvage procedures performed included anal dilatation under anesthesia for anastomotic strictures, placement of setons and/or fistulotomy for perianal fistulae, unroofing of anastomotic sinuses, simple drainage and antibiotics for perianal abscesses, abdominal exploration with drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses with or without establishment of ileostomy, and complete or partial reconstruction of the reservoir for patients with inadequate emptying. none of the reoperated patients died. reoperation led to restoration of pouch function in two thirds of patients and, of these, 70% had an excellent clinical outcome. however approximately 20% of the 114 pouches required excision. excision was common, especially among patients who had pelvic sepsis. salvage procedures for pouch-specific complications can be done safely and will restore pouch function in two thirds of patients. complications after reoperation, however, may ultimately lead to loss of the reservoir in one in five patients.
digoxin immune fab therapy in the management of digitalis intoxication: safety and efficacy results of an observational surveillance study. an observational surveillance study was conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab (ovine) (digibind) in patients with digitalis intoxication. before april 1986, a relatively limited number of patients received treatment with digoxin-specific fab fragments through a multicenter clinical trial. beginning with commercial availability in july 1986, this study sought additional, voluntarily reported clinical data pertaining to treatment through a 3 week follow-up. the study included 717 adults who received digoxin immune fab (ovine). most patients were greater than or equal to 70 years old and developed toxicity during maintenance dosing with digoxin. fifty percent of patients were reported to have a complete response to treatment, 24% a partial response and 12% no response. the response for 14% of patients was not reported or reported as uncertain. six patients (0.8%, 95% confidence interval 0.3% to 1.8%) had an allergic reaction to digoxin-specific antibody fragments. three of the six had a history of allergy to antibiotic drugs. twenty patients (2.8%, 95% confidence interval 1.7% to 4.3%) developed recrudescent toxicity. risk of recrudescent toxicity increased sixfold when less than 50% of the estimated dose of antibody was administered. a total of 215 patients experienced posttreatment adverse events. the events for 163 patients (76%) were judged to result from manifestations of underlying disease and thus considered unrelated to fab treatment. digoxin-specific antibody fragments were generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients judged by treating physicians to have potentially life-threatening digitalis intoxication.
the effect of intravenous fixed-dose heparin during total hip arthroplasty on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis. a randomized, double-blind trial in patients operated on with epidural anesthesia and controlled hypotension. heparin was given in fixed doses intravenously during unilateral primary total hip-replacement operations in a prospective, double-blind trial to assess the effect on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis. one hundred and fifty patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups before the operation. twenty-four patients were excluded from the study, leaving 126 patients. group i consisted of sixty-six patients who received saline solution intravenously, and group ii comprised sixty patients who received heparin. all patients had epidural anesthesia with controlled hypotension. fixed doses of heparin were administered five minutes before the operative incision was made and every thirty minutes throughout the operation. mean arterial pressures were maintained at between fifty and sixty millimeters of mercury in all patients. ascending venography was done on the seventh day after the operation. the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis was 24 per cent (sixteen of sixty-six patients) in group i and 8 per cent (five of sixty patients) in group ii; the difference is significant (p = 0.03). the intraoperative loss of blood averaged 220 +/- 79 milliliters in group i compared with 269 +/- 109 milliliters in group ii. an average of less than one unit of blood was transfused for each patient in each group. postoperatively, there was no difference between the groups with regard to the amount of drainage that was collected in a hemovac device or the values for hematocrit.
squamous cell carcinoma arising in a sternotomy scar. the case of a 73-year-old man in whom squamous cell carcinoma developed in a median sternotomy scar 12 months after coronary artery bypass grafting is presented. a brief review of the literature is included. the etiology of scar carcinoma is discussed and an outline of management given.
fallopian tube cancer. the roswell park experience. sixty-four patients with primary fallopian tube cancer treated at roswell park memorial institute from 1964 to 1987 underwent retrospective clinicopathologic review. in 40 patients fallopian tube cancer was the only primary, but in 24 patients primary fallopian tube cancer was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy. of the 40 patients with unifocal fallopian disease, the median survival was 28 months. only 15% of patients were alive and disease free with follow-up ranging from 22 to 141 months (median, 90.5 months). survival was not associated with stage of disease, tumor histology, grade, or depth of invasion in this series. fourteen patients who received cisplatin-based chemotherapy were evaluable for response. three patients (21%) responded; two complete and one partial. twelve patients without clinical evidence of disease underwent second-look procedures, ten laparotomy and two laparoscopy. four of ten second-look laparotomies were negative. secondary debulking was done in three of four patients with gross disease, one of which had a negative third-look laparotomy. negative laparotomy, second-look or third-look, was associated with improved survival (p = 0.016). one of the two laparoscopies was negative, but the patient recurred. in the remaining 24 patients cancer of the fallopian tube was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy. in 12 patients tubal disease was invasive, and in 12, it was in situ. separate primaries occurred in the ovaries (n = 20); uterus (n = 7); and cervix (n = 2). this represents 1.3% of ovarian malignancies treated at roswell park memorial institute during the study period. fallopian tube cancer seems as virulent as ovarian cancer with few long-term survivors. it is frequently associated with other sites of upper genital tract malignancy. second-look laparotomy is an important predictor of survival. second-look laparoscopy may be useful if positive.
endoscopic assessment of chloroquine phosphate-induced damage to esophageal, gastric, and duodenal mucosa. eighteen patients with plasmodium vivax malaria were prospectively evaluated to assess the time of onset and extent of upper gastrointestinal mucosal injury caused by oral administration of four tablets (600-mg base) of chloroquine. endoscopy was performed in the group of three separate patients. each patient underwent endoscopy, both before the drug was given, and at intervals of 1, 2, 4, 12, 24, and 36 h. before the drug was given, endoscopy was normal in all of the patients. however, mucosal erosions developed in four of 18 patients who were endoscoped 24 and 36 h after chloroquine ingestion (gastric, four; duodenal, two; esophageal, one). the same doses of chloroquine failed to produce any mucosal lesions when given to these four patients while they were afebrile and when given to 11 healthy individuals who served as controls. poor correlation was noted between subjective symptoms and endoscopic findings. in conclusion, neither malaria alone nor chloroquine alone causes mucosal lesions. however, chloroquine administered during malarial fever causes mucosal damage in susceptible individuals.
different tumor-derived p53 mutants exhibit distinct biological activities. in its wild-type form, the protein p53 can interfere with neoplastic processes. tumor-derived cells often express mutant p53. full-length mutant forms of p53 isolated so far from transformed mouse cells exhibit three common properties in vitro: loss of transformation-suppressing activity, gain of pronounced transforming potential, and ability to bind the heat shock protein cognate hsc70. a tumor-derived mouse p53 variant is now described, whose site of mutation corresponds to a hot spot for p53 in human tumors. while absolutely nonsuppressing, it is only weakly transforming and exhibits no detectable hsc70 binding. the data suggest that the ability of a p53 mutant to bind endogenous p53 is not the sole determinant of its oncogenic potential. the data also support the existence of gain-of-function p53 mutants.
late volume changes in retrosternal colon bypass. esophageal obstruction by malignancy, chemical burns, or other less common entities presents a challenge for the surgeon. either for esophageal substitution after esophageal resection or as a bypass for the obstructed esophagus, colon interposition is often the best available option. massive colonic enlargement requiring resection of the interposed dilated colon developed recently in 2 of our patients who had a colon bypass 22 and 10 years earlier, respectively.
human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene regulation by virus and lipopolysaccharide. we have identified a region of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) gene promoter that is necessary for maximal constitutive, virus-induced, and lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced transcription. this region contains three sites that match an nf-kappa b binding-site consensus sequence. we show that these three sites specifically bind nf-kappa b in vitro, yet each of these sites can be deleted from the tnf-alpha promoter with little effect on the induction of the gene by virus or lps. moreover, when multimers of these three sites are placed upstream from a truncated tnf-alpha promoter, or a heterologous promoter, an increase in the basal level of transcription is observed that is influenced by sequence context and cell type. however, these multimers are not sufficient for virus or lps induction of either promoter. thus, unlike other virus- and lps-inducible promoters that contain nf-kappa b binding sites, these sites from the tnf-alpha promoter are neither required nor sufficient for virus or lps induction. comparison of the sequence requirements of virus induction of the human tnf-alpha gene in mouse l929 and p388d1 cells reveals significant differences, indicating that the sequence requirements for virus induction of the gene are cell type-specific. however, the sequences required for virus and lps induction of the gene in a single cell type, p388d1, overlap.
boron neutron capture therapy of intracerebral rat gliosarcomas. the efficacy of boron neutron capture therapy (bnct) for the treatment of intracerebrally implanted rat gliosarcomas was tested. preferential accumulation of 10b in tumors was achieved by continuous infusion of the sulfhydryl borane dimer, na4(10)b24h22s2, at a rate of 45-50 micrograms of 10b per g of body weight per day from day 11 to day 14 after tumor initiation (day 0). this infusion schedule resulted in average blood 10b concentrations of 35 micrograms/ml in a group of 12 gliosarcoma-bearing rats and 45 micrograms/ml in a group of 10 similar gliosarcoma-bearing rats treated by bnct. estimated tumor 10b levels in these two groups were 26 and 34 micrograms/g, respectively. on day 14, boron-treated and non-boron-treated rats were exposed to 5.0 or 7.5 mw.min of radiation from the brookhaven medical research reactor that yielded thermal neutron fluences of approximately 2.0 x 10(12) or approximately 3.0 x 10(12) n/cm2, respectively, in the tumors. untreated rats had a median postinitiation survival time of 21 days. reactor radiation alone increased median postinitiation survival time to 26 (5.0 mw.min) or 28 (7.5 mw.min) days. the 12 rats that received 5 mw.min of bnct had a median postinitiation survival time of 60 days. two of these animals survived greater than 15 months. in the 7.5 mw.min group, the median survival time is not calculable since 6 of the 10 animals remain alive greater than 10 months after bnct. the estimated radiation doses to tumors in the two bnct groups were 14.2 and 25.6 gy equivalents, respectively. similar gliosarcoma-bearing rats treated with 15.0 or 22.5 gy of 250-kilovolt peak x-rays had median survival times of only 26 or 31 days, respectively, after tumor initiation.
coronary angioplasty in symptomatic patients after bypass surgery. with the availability of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), the management of patients who present with recurrent angina following coronary artery bypass surgery (cabg) has changed. from january 1987 to december 1988, 149 symptomatic post cabg patients underwent coronary angiography at our institution. ninety were treated with medical antianginal therapy, 14 had repeat surgery, and 45 underwent ptca. complications of repeat cabg included one death, two perioperative myocardial infarctions, and four patients with postoperative supraventricular arrhythmia. ptca was performed on 42 lesions in 37 native vessels (88% success rate), and on 24 lesions in 23 vein grafts (91.7% success rate). complications included acute reocclusion (one patient), peripheral artery occlusion (one patient), hematoma formation (one patient), and periprocedure myocardial infarction (one patient). no deaths occurred. at a mean follow-up of 5.9 +/- 3.8 months, 10 patients had recurrent symptoms, six of whom were found to have restenosis. repeat ptca was successfully accomplished in four patients; the other two were treated medically. it is concluded that ptca is a feasible alternative to repeat cabg in selected patients and can be achieved with a high success rate and minimal complications.
fetal choroid plexus cysts: a prospective study and review of the literature. to determine the incidence and significance of fetal choroid plexus cysts, a prospective study was carried out at queen's medical centre, nottingham. the incidence of cysts was found to be 0.42% and the size of cysts varied from 3 to 13 mm with a mean diameter of 6.2 mm. choroid plexus cysts were associated with other fetal abnormalities in three cases, two of which were subsequently found to have a chromosomal abnormality, one trisomy 18 and one trisomy 21. a review of the reported cases of choroid plexus cysts reveals an overall incidence of 5.8% for trisomy 18. we therefore recommend that in patients with choroid plexus cysts a detailed scan should be carried out to look for the ultrasound markers of trisomy 18. if there is an associated abnormality or cysts are large (13 mm or greater in diameter) and bilateral then a karyotyping should be carried out.
epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma. three cases of epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma are summarized and compared with reported cases. all patients had a long-standing tumor on a lower extremity that rapidly metastasized to the skin and proximal lymph nodes. the histologic picture was consistent with an intraepidermal eccrine sweat gland carcinoma.
cells secreting antibodies to myelin basic protein in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with lyme neuroborreliosis. an autoimmune response to myelin basic protein (mbp) has been proposed to participate in the development of the chronic neurologic manifestations that may accompany borrelia burgdorferi-induced lyme disease. using an immunospot assay, we counted cells secreting antibodies to mbp. anti-mbp igg antibody-secreting cells were detected in csf from eight of 13 consecutive patients with lyme neuroborreliosis irrespective of stage of disease. the numbers were between 1/370 and 1/5,000 csf cells (mean, 1/1,250 in the 13 patients). the highest numbers were encountered in two patients with severe signs of cns involvement. the numbers decreased in parallel with clinical improvement after treatment. anti-mbp igg antibody-secreting cells were also observed in the csf from patients with a variety of other inflammatory diseases of the nervous system, and their role in the development of tissue damage remains unsettled. anti-mbp igg antibody-secreting cells were not detected in the patients' blood, reflecting accumulation of this autoantibody response to csf.
salt and hypertension--future directions. the comments that follow reflect the personal views of this author regarding some useful directions of research in the field of salt and hypertension. from a physiological perspective, salt sensitivity is defined, and the merits and limitations of certain animal models of hypertension used to study this issue are discussed. the need to more clearly define the mechanisms that detect sodium intake and control the renal excretion of sodium is discussed. additionally, the need to better understand the relation between sodium homeostasis, volume regulation, and the consequences of dysfunction in these regulatory system on the arterial vasculature and interstitial matrix is emphasized. the necessity for the application of new tools and approaches in a number of investigative areas is discussed. finally, the necessity of equally imaginative whole animal and cell/molecular research and efforts to merge and integrate the data obtained at the cellular level with that of intact systems is emphasized.
learning a unimanual motor skill by partial commissurotomy patients. a series of motor tests on four chinese partial commissurotomy patients is reported. the single-stage commissurotomy in all four patients included the anterior commissures and two-thirds or four-fifths section of the corpus callosum with sparing of the splenium. there was no demonstrable ability to transfer hand posture in these patients. this was the major evidence for functional deconnexion. a newly learned task of one-hand knotting revealed right hand impairment in all four patients. there was no dyspraxia in the right hand for over-learned object-handling tasks in these patients. it is suggested that there might be right hemisphere specialisation for the initial acquisition of unimanual object-handling skills and that the spared callosal fibres in the splenium alone are insufficient to mediate task control under these conditions. this is supported by the finding that one of these patients, who was the only one who had a right parietal lesion, was unable to perform the newly learned task with either hand.
point mutation in the exoplasmic domain of the erythropoietin receptor resulting in hormone-independent activation and tumorigenicity. the receptors for erythropoietin and other cytokines constitute a new superfamily. they have no tyrosine-kinase or other enzyme motif and their signal-transducing mechanism is unclear. here we describe two classes of activating mutations in the erythropoietin receptor (epor). a single point mutation in the exoplasmic domain enables it to induce hormone-independent cell growth and tumorigenesis after expression in nontumorigenic, interleukin-3-dependent haematopoietic cells. a c-terminal truncation in the cytoplasmic domain of the epor renders the receptor hyperresponsive to erythropoietin, but is insufficient to induce hormone-independent growth or tumorigenicity. the activating point mutation retards intracellular transport and turnover of the receptor. these alterations in metabolism and tumorigenicity caused by the epor with activating point mutations are similar to those observed in erythropoietin-independent activation of the wild type epor by association with gp55, the friend spleen focus-forming virus glycoprotein.
wrist flexion as an adjunct to the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome. the effects of five minutes of wrist flexion on median motor and sensory evoked potential latencies in 87 individuals were studied. nineteen subjects had carpal tunnel syndrome (cts) as diagnosed by increased median nerve latencies across the wrist, and 68 had values in the normal range and were assigned to the control group. a slight prolongation of up to 0.5m sec of evoked potential latencies was observed in both groups after flexion, but the differences between the two groups were not significant to establish the value of adding wrist flexion to conventional screening methods.
clinicopathologic features of hepatocellular carcinoma in young patients. to investigate clinicopathologic characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) in young adults, excised tumors from 21 patients younger than 45 years (young group) were compared with findings in tumors from 204 patients older than 45 (old group). in the young group hcc showed (1) a high incidence of positive hepatitis b virus surface antigen (hbsag) (young 71.4% versus old 20.1%); (2) relatively well-preserved hepatocellular function (indocyanine green test; young 10.7 +/- 8.8% versus old 20.6 +/- 10.8%); (3) low incidence of histologically verified concomitant cirrhosis (young 52.4% versus old 78.4%); and (4) a more advanced stage of the disease in tnm classification (stage iii; young 52.4% versus old 18.1%). with respect to survival rates achieved by surgery, there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups. thus, hepatitis b virus may relate to the occurrence of hcc in the young patients. despite the advanced stage in the young group, survival rate after surgery was comparable with that achieved in the old group. these observations mean that a close periodic surveillance of young adults with a positive hbsag is required to detect hcc at an early stage. treatment of patients with hbsag using interferon or vidarabine and hepatitis b vaccine should be made to convert hbsag to negative in these individuals.
outlook after acute myocardial infarction in the very elderly compared with that in patients aged 65 to 75 years little is known concerning late outcome and prognostic factors after acute myocardial infarction in the very elderly (greater than 75 years of age). accordingly, this study compared the clinical course and mortality rate for up to 1 year in a large multicenter data base that included 702 patients greater than 75 years of age (mean +/- sd 81 +/- 4 years), with a less elderly subset of 1,321 patients between 65 and 75 years of age (mean 70 +/- 3 years). the postdischarge 1 year cardiac mortality rate was 17.6% for those greater than 75 years of age compared with 12.0% for patients between 65 and 75 years of age (p less than 0.01). there were differences in the prevalence of several factors, including female gender, history of angina pectoris, history of congestive heart failure, smoking habits and incidence of congestive heart failure during hospitalization. multivariate analyses of predictors of cardiac death in hospital survivors selected different factors as important in the two age subgroups; age was selected in the 65 to 75 year age group but was not an independent predictor in the very elderly. the survival curves beginning at day 10 for patients 65 to 75 and in those greater than 75 years old were similar for up to 90 days but diverged later. in the very elderly, 63% of late cardiac deaths were sudden or due to new myocardial infarction, similar to the causes of 67% of deaths in the younger age group.
traumatic rupture of the aorta--critical decisions for trauma surgeons. the diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with traumatic rupture of the aorta (tra) is performed by trauma surgeons. the resuscitations of 54 tra patients at a level i trauma center are reviewed. although the survival of patients who underwent attempted repair was good (75%), 21/27 (78%) deaths occurred during phases of treatment controlled by a trauma surgeon. the techniques and sequencing of resuscitation can affect outcome. pneumatic antishock garments were not beneficial in the prehospital setting for patients with tra. in fact, pasg were on and inflated in all patients who presented in cardiac arrest. awake, unanesthetized intubation caused fatal aortic rupture in three patients. pharmacologic control of blood pressure during intubation is necessary. the amount of fluid, blood transfusion, and changes in blood pressure secondary to therapy did not statistically affect outcome. the average time from arrival in the er to angiogram was 64.7 minutes. the average time er to operating room was 159.7 minutes. seven cases of tra had delayed diagnosis usually for a misinterpreted cxr (5/7). delay in diagnosis did not directly contribute to any deaths. associated abdominal injuries are a common cause of preventable deaths. fourteen patients with combined abdominal injuries and tra were identified. four of six deaths occurred with potentially reparable injuries. operative and diagnostic sequences must be adjusted to allow rapid control of all potentially fatal injuries.
saltpeter ingestion. a 37-year-old man presented to the emergency department after an attempt to self-treat his priapism with saltpeter (k+no3). initially he had a potassium of 7.6 with electrocardiographic changes and a markedly elevated co2. the potassium and carbon dioxide normalized in less than 24 hours with standard treatment for hyperkalemia. hyperkalemia is expected with large oral potassium ingestion; and the elevated co2 was spurious, caused by the misreading of serum nitrates by the ektachrom 700 system. ingestion of k+no3 should be added to the differential of hyperkalemia with a markedly elevated co2.
no effect of experimental noise exposure on human pregnancy. the effect of experimental noise exposure (15 minutes of 90-db white noise via headphones) was examined on systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures; heart rate; and stress hormones (acth, cortisol, prolactin, epinephrine, and norepinephrine) in normotensive and hypertensive pregnant women. no significant effects induced by noise exposure could be registered in these variables. fetal and uterine blood circulation was also examined with a duplex pulsed doppler system. no changes were seen on the fetal side as measured from the descending aorta in blood flow velocity (cm/second) or pulsatility or resistance indexes in either normotensive or hypertensive pregnancy. the only change observed was an increase in fetal heart rate in normotensive pregnancy. however, this increase could not be confirmed by cardiotocographic registration and is not clinically important. uterine blood circulation was recorded from the proximal uterine artery on the placental side, and no effect of exposure was seen on pulsatility or resistance indexes.
amoxicillin or myringotomy or both for acute otitis media: results of a randomized clinical trial. a total of 536 infants and children with acute otitis media were randomly assigned to one of six consistent year-long regimens involving the treatment of nonsevere episodes with either amoxicillin or placebo, and severe episodes with either amoxicillin, amoxicillin and myringotomy, or, in children aged 2 years or older, placebo and myringotomy. nonsevere episodes had more favorable outcomes in subjects assigned to treatment with amoxicillin than with placebo, as measured by the proportions that resulted in initial treatment failure (3.9% vs 7.7%, p = .009) and the proportions in which middle-ear effusion was present at 2 and 6 weeks after onset (46.9% vs 62.5%, p less than .001; and 45.9% vs 51.5%, p = .09, respectively). in subjects whose entry episode was non-severe, those assigned to amoxicillin treatment had less average time with effusion during the succeeding year than those assigned to placebo treatment (36.0% vs 44.4%, p = .004), but recurrence rates of acute otitis media in the two groups were similar. in the 2-year-and-older age group, severe episodes resulted in more initial treatment failures in subjects assigned to receive myringotomy alone than in subjects assigned to receive amoxicillin with, or without, myringotomy (23.5% vs 3.1% vs 4.1%, p = .006). in the study population as a whole, severe episodes in subjects assigned to receive amoxicillin alone, and amoxicillin with myringotomy, had comparable outcomes. it is concluded that children with acute otitis media should routinely be treated with amoxicillin (or an equivalent antimicrobial drug). the data provide no support for the routine use of myringotomy either alone or adjunctively.
prolonged extracorporeal life support of pediatric and adolescent cardiac transplant patients. options for mechanical support of pediatric patients with severe heart failure who are awaiting transplantation or have undergone transplantation are limited. this report examines 3 patients placed on extracorporeal life support (ecls) while awaiting transplantation and 3 patients who underwent transplantation and suffered subsequent heart failure due to rejection or postoperative myocardial dysfunction. the overall survival rate was 2 of 6. the 2 surviving patients had a failing transplanted heart. there were no survivors among the patients placed on ecls as a bridge to transplantation. in each case a contraindication to transplantation developed before a donor heart could be obtained. the mean time of ecls support was 147.5 hours (range, 70 to 370 hours). the ecls circuit did not affect cyclosporin levels or antirejection therapy. extracorporeal life support can be used to support pediatric cardiac transplant patients with biventricular failure due to acute rejection or postoperative dysfunction. although the results have been discouraging, ecls may still have a role as a bridge to transplantation. however, complications can develop during ecls that may preclude transplantation.
value of four models for selecting patients for local excision of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. for 75 women with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva who underwent radical vulvectomy and inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy, the authors assessed the efficacy of four models for selecting patients who could have been treated adequately with local excision of the tumor. each of the three models proposed by andreasson and nyboe covered 25% of the patients, none of whom had groin metastases or died of cancer. local recurrence in the vulva occurred in 10%. a model suggested by the international society for the study of vulvar disease covered almost 10% of the patients. one of seven patients had groin metastases, none died of cancer, and one of seven developed local recurrence in the vulva. the criteria of the clinically best suited model are tumor not situated on the clitoris and less than 4 cm in diameter, with only slight hyperchromasia. this model ought to be tested in a randomized study.
the origin of epidermal melanocytes. implications for the histogenesis of nevi and melanomas. among the most venerable concepts in dermatopathology is unna's 19th century notion of abtropfung, ie, that melanocytes drop off from the epidermis to the dermis during the histogenesis of melanocytic tumors. paradoxically, however, unna's basic premise of an epidermal origin for melanocytes has been seriously questioned for over 40 years, based on experimental evidence favoring a neural crest origin for melanocytes. recent work has strengthened the evidence for a neural crest origin of epidermal melanocytes, and it has been suggested that the concept of abtropfung be replaced by the concept of hochsteigerung. the concept of hochsteigerung holds that melanocytes migrate up from the dermis into the epidermis-not only in normal development, but also during normal tissue maintenance. it now seems likely that the precursor of melanocytes, in both normal and abnormal differentiation, may not be a melanoblast (a primitive cell committed to melanocytic differentiation) but rather a pluripotential cell. although axon-investing schwann cells have been the traditional focus as the closest relative of the epidermal melanocyte, recent studies suggest that another nerve sheath cell, the perineural cell, might be a better candidate. these concepts have profound implications for the histogenesis of melanocytic nevi and melanomas.
emergency department approach to managing seizures in pregnancy. seizures in pregnancy pose risks for both the mother and the fetus and must be managed aggressively. antiepileptic drugs have some teratogenic potential, but the risks are not as profound as reported in earlier literature. there is definitely less risk to the fetus from anticonvulsant exposure than from uncontrolled seizures. the evaluation of a pregnant woman with new-onset seizures is the same as for the nonpregnant patient, including head computed tomography with appropriate abdominal shielding. status epilepticus management is based on iv benzodiazepines, phenytoin, or phenobarbital. good fetal outcome is dependent on rapid seizure control. management of eclampsia is controversial. there is little evidence that magnesium sulfate has anticonvulsant properties, and its use as such will probably decline steadily in the future. at present, it is reasonable to manage eclamptic seizures in the same way that status epilepticus is managed.
historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy. the performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery. from the mid- to late 1940s until the last 10 years, the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity. for reasons that are not clear, the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10% and in several centers, less than 5%. postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients. furthermore, a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected. seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation.
monocortical miniplate fixation of mandibular angle fractures. noncompression monocortical miniplate fixation of mandibular fractures has become a reliable method of providing rigid fixation and eliminating the need for intermaxillary fixation. recent studies, using a variety of internal fixation techniques, have described high complication rates at the mandibular angle. this article compares the use of one miniplate vs two miniplates in treatment of angle fractures. since september 1985, 61 patients with 63 mandibular angle fractures have been treated with miniplates. forty-four fractures were fixed with two miniplates. six complications (3.1%) occurred, five of which were in the one-miniplate group. the complication rate in the double-miniplate group is the lowest reported of any plating technique. the use of two miniplates has proved to be an effective method of treating mandibular angle fractures.
cystic dilatation of the cystic duct: a new type of biliary cyst. a case of a patient with a congenital cyst that was localized solely to the cystic duct is presented. we propose including this anomaly in the biliary cyst classifications, which currently include choledochal and intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary cysts. the diagnosis and management of this new type of cyst in addition to other types of biliary cysts are discussed.
isolated calf venous thrombosis: diagnosis with compression us. compression ultrasound (us) is an excellent means of evaluating the femoral and popliteal veins but is generally regarded as inadequate for the diagnosis of calf vein thrombosis. this prospective study evaluated compression sonography of the calf veins in 45 symptomatic patients with normal femoral and popliteal veins. all patients underwent correlative venography. compression us enabled identification of 15 of 17 patients with calf vein thrombosis (sensitivity, 88%). the two false-negative results were in patients with small isolated thrombi. compression us results were true-negative in 26 of 27 patients with normal venograms (specificity, 96%). if these results can be duplicated by other investigators in larger series of patients, compression us will be an adequate screening modality for calf vein thrombosis.
serum tumor markers and patient allocation to good-risk and poor-risk clinical trials in patients with germ cell tumors. the allocation of patients with advanced germ cell tumors (gct) to different treatment programs based on clinical characteristics is standard in the design of clinical trials today. studies have shown that substantial differences exist between entry criteria and that these differences could influence the outcome of clinical trials. the factors contributing to these differences are not clear due to patient selection biases. two hundred five unselected and consecutive patients allocated to and treated in good-risk and poor-risk treatment programs at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center (mskcc) were reassigned risk status by the indiana university (iu) classification. the results were compared with those of the southeastern cancer study group (secsg). the results using both criteria indicated substantial agreement in total end results and the identification of good-risk patients. the results in poor-risk patients differed substantially, with 39 patients (19%) classified as poor-risk by mskcc criteria and 66 (32%) by indiana criteria. the major discrepancy occurred in iu stage 7, in which 26 of 32 patients (81%) achieved a complete response. the major factor contributing to this difference in risk assignment was the use of serum tumor markers. serum tumor markers must be incorporated into risk assignment criteria for gct clinical trials to minimize the number of good-risk gct patients in poor-risk trials.
melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa. lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa. they are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions. this article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex, junctional lentigo ("jentigo"), atypical melanocytic hyperplasia (melanoma in situ), and melanocanthoma. the proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed.
bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children: a clinical study. bismuth subsalicylate (bss) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children, aged 4 to 28 months, hospitalized with acute diarrhea. the dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days. significant benefits were noted in the bss group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency, significant improvement in clinical well-being, and shortening of the disease duration. patients treated with bss had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay (6.9 days) compared with placebo-treated patients (8.5 days). also, intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the bss-treated group. bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic escherichia coli from the stools in 100% of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination. bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects. blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic. in this study, bss provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea, allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff.
flow cytometric dna content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland. correlation of histologic features and prognosis. flow cytometric analysis of nuclear dna content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived, paraffin-embedded tissues. the dna content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course. ten carcinomas (38%) were aneuploid and 16 (62%) diploid. aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture, lymph node metastases, and advanced clinical stage, as compared with diploid carcinomas. other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal dna content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension. our data suggest that dna content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma.
blood conservation in cardiac surgery. we reviewed current blood conservation techniques and their use in cardiac surgery. avoidance of aspirin preoperatively is an important blood conservation measure. patients scheduled for an elective operation should participate in autologous predonation programs. with careful monitoring, patients with major coronary artery disease can safely donate blood preoperatively. intraoperative processing of blood withdrawn before cardiopulmonary bypass provides autologous platelet-rich plasma for infusion after reversal of heparin sodium. blood collected from the field during operation and blood remaining in the oxygenator after bypass can also be processed to yield washed and concentrated red blood cells for reinfusion. randomized, prospective studies document that postoperative autotransfusion is both safe and effective in reducing homologous blood use. aprotinin reduces plasma protein activation and platelet damage during bypass. the integration of available blood conservation techniques into a comprehensive program combined with careful consideration of the indications for transfusion may allow more patients to avoid transfusion entirely.
a videofluoroscopy chair for the evaluation of dysphagia in patients with severe neuromotor disease. due to the difficulties encountered in positioning severely neurologically impaired individuals for videofluoroscopic studies, the rehab tech video fluorochair was developed. the purpose of the chair is to provide the severely disabled patient with safe, stable postural support in an upright position for videofluoroscopic studies, with anterior-posterior, lateral, and rotational views easily performed. the chair features a removable headrest, a full back support, armrests, lateral truncal supports, and a patented base which is clamped to the footboard of the radiology table and allows for 200 degrees rotation of the patient. two case studies illustrate the practical use and versatility of the rehab tech video fluorochair.
infectious mononucleosis in older adults. infectious mononucleosis as a manifestation of primary epstein-barr virus infection occurs uncommonly in adults over age 40. while fever is almost universal, older patients with the disease often present without lymphadenopathy, pharyngitis, splenomegaly, lymphocytosis or atypical lymphocytes. jaundice and hepatomegaly occur more commonly in older patients than in adolescents and create diagnostic confusion. often, infectious mononucleosis in this age group is confused with lymphoma, leukemia or biliary obstruction, or is classified as "fever of unknown origin.".
effects of treadmill exercise on fuel metabolism in hepatic cirrhosis. we studied whole body and regional fuel metabolism before, during, and after 90 min of treadmill exercise at 50% of maximal aerobic capacity (vo2max) in four subjects with hepatic cirrhosis and in four normal volunteers. rates of endogenous glucose production (egp) were measured using d-[6-3h]glucose infusions and fuel oxidation using indirect calorimetry. in the basal state, cirrhotic subjects had similar rates of egp compared with controls. forearm release of alanine and lactate was significantly greater in cirrhotic subjects (p less than 0.05), suggesting increased basal rates of gluconeogenesis. during exercise, egp increased 2- to 2.5-fold in control subjects (p less than 0.01) but did not increase in cirrhotic subjects. despite lower glucose concentrations in cirrhotic subjects, progressive hypoglycemia did not occur during exercise, probably because cirrhotic subjects demonstrated increased plasma concentrations of fat-derived substrates and derived a greater percentage of total energy requirement from fat oxidation than did controls (p less than 0.05) and because forearm muscle glucose extraction was significantly lower in cirrhotic subjects compared with controls (0.5 vs. 3.6%, respectively; p less than 0.05). during recovery, control subjects demonstrated significant increases in egp rates compared with both the basal and exercise periods, but cirrhotic subjects showed no increase. in conclusion, cirrhotic subjects failed to demonstrate the normal increase in egp during and after exercise. significant hypoglycemia during exercise did not occur, possibly because of the increased availability of fat-derived fuels, which may spare the requirement for circulating glucose as an oxidative fuel for exercising muscle tissues.
amplification of oncogenes in mammary carcinoma shown by fine-needle biopsy. a procedure that measures the amplification of oncogenes in human cancer cells is described. the cells were obtained by fine-needle biopsy to allow repeated sampling from individual metastases. a drawback was the low number of cells obtained, but this could be overcome by using a slot-blot hybridization technique to measure gene amplification. two patients with mammary cancer (primary tumors or metastases), analyzed for the levels of amplification of the oncogene erb-b2, are described in detail. this technique is suitable for analyzing alterations occurring during cancer progression and for identifying subgroups of mammary cancer with different characteristics.
delta sleep ratio. a biological correlate of early recurrence in unipolar affective disorder. slow wave sleep abnormalities have long been described in depression but were considered to be nonspecific indicators of psychopathology. computerized techniques, including amplitude frequency measures and spectral analyses, are permitting new approaches to the examination of delta sleep. early studies suggested that many depressed patients demonstrate lower delta wave intensity during the first non-rapid eye movement period than the second one. this finding, prominent in middle-aged depressed patients, has led to an examination of the ratio between the first and second non-rapid eye movement periods. this delta sleep measure seems to be a more robust predictor of recurrence than rapid eye movement latency. analysis of data on 74 patients in a long-term maintenance treatment study for a minimum of 24 months demonstrates that the delta sleep ratio can predict survival time following discontinuation of drug treatment. individuals with a high delta sleep ratio remain clinically remitted five times longer than those with a low delta sleep ratio.
the frequency-dependent behavior of cerebral autoregulation. cerebral autoregulation is a complex physiological process composed of both fast and slow components that may respond differently to different rates and patterns of blood pressure variation. to assess the temporal nature of autoregulation, transcranial doppler velocity recordings of the middle cerebral artery obtained over prolonged periods were compared with blood pressure recordings in 5 patients without cerebral disease and in 13 patients with intracranial pathological changes. correlations between the velocity and pressure wave forms at various frequencies of variation were measured with systems analysis techniques. patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage had high correlations indicating pressure-dependent flow and impaired autoregulation. patients without cerebral disease had significantly lower correlations (p less than 0.01), indicating intact autoregulation. examples of increasing correlations and correlations at new frequencies emerging as the clinical condition worsened are given. these preliminary examples suggest that the application of systems analysis techniques to velocity and pressure data allow measurement of the temporal nature of cerebral autoregulation.
neurologic complications of cardiac transplantation. between 1984 and 1989, orthotopic cardiac transplantations were done in 90 patients from 10 to 65 years of age for end-stage, refractory congestive cardiomyopathy. two patients had had ischemic strokes 5 months and 18 years, respectively, before transplantation. six patients (7%) suffered acute neurologic events perioperatively. three patients suffered cerebral infarctions. in 1 case this occurred 10 days before transplantation--probably as a result of systemic hypoperfusion--with the placement of ventricular assist devices. two others suffered infarctions 5 and 21 days, respectively, after transplantation, each of probable embolic origin. two patients had an acute intracerebral hemorrhage 21 and 36 days, respectively, after transplantation; both were located within the basal ganglia and subcortical regions. both patients had moderate to severe hypertension, and in 1, renal failure and a coagulopathy developed before hemorrhage. tremor, seizures, and an altered level of consciousness developed in 1 patient as an apparent toxic reaction to cyclosporine treatment. only 1 patient died as a result of the neurologic complication--of an acute intracerebral hemorrhage. three patients recovered fully, 2 partially. only the case of drug toxicity could be directly attributed to the transplantation procedure itself. we conclude that the risk of an acute neurologic insult with orthotopic cardiac transplantation is low but may result from drug toxicity, cerebral ischemia, or hemorrhagic mechanisms.
primary solid neoplasms of the greater omentum. primary solid tumors of the greater omentum are rare, with only 42 reported cases. malignant hemangiopericytomas constitute only three of these cases. the 40-year-old patient described in this report had abdominal pain, a palpable abdominal mass, early satiety, and weight loss. at laparotomy a large omental hemangiopericytoma was excised, and no other evidence of disease was grossly evident. eighteen months after initial laparotomy, the patient had widespread progression of the tumor and, despite chemotherapy, died 2 months later. a review of reported cases shows that abdominal discomfort (56%) and mass (35%) are the most common clinical characteristics of a primary omental tumor. weight loss, ascites, and peritoneal implants usually indicate malignancy. rare long-term follow-up prevents definitive conclusions regarding therapy and prognosis. at present, surgical excision alone appears to be the treatment of choice, with no demonstrable benefit from either chemotherapy or radiation.
acute limb ischaemia: the place of intravenous streptokinase. intravenous streptokinase infusions (100,000 units/h) have been used to treat 48 patients, with 50 episodes of acute limb ischaemia who were unlikely to benefit from a surgical approach. these included 17 acute thromboses, 14 late or distal emboli and 19 bypass graft occlusions. overall, 17 (34 per cent) instances had complete lysis with reappearance of distal pulses and a further 28 per cent had clinical improvement without change in pulse status. final outcome after 30 days was limb salvage in 60 per cent, amputation in 24 per cent and death in 16 per cent, but this was achieved after eight patients without lysis had vascular reconstructive surgery. serious complications were infrequent, but included a fatal stroke, a haematemesis and two episodes of distal embolization. the outcome was not related to the duration of ischaemia or the site of occlusion. lysis was more frequent with emboli (50 per cent) and graft occlusions (47 per cent) than arterial thromboses (6 per cent). limb salvage was more likely in patients with no neurological deficit in the limb (70 per cent) than if a deficit was present (37 per cent). in conclusion, intravenous streptokinase produced a moderate benefit with low morbidity and has a role in acute limb ischaemia if surgery is inappropriate and intra-arterial lysis unavailable. in particular, selected patients with emboli or graft occlusions without a neurological deficit may be most suitable.
simultaneous operative repair of multilevel lower extremity occlusive disease. sixty-two patients (39 men (63%), 23 women (27%), mean age 68 years) with multilevel lower extremity arterial occlusive disease underwent simultaneous inflow and outflow operative arterial repair consisting of aortofemoral bypass in 22 (35%), axillofemoral bypass in 17 (28%), femorofemoral bypass in 15 (24%), iliac endarterectomy in 7 (11%), and unilateral aortoiliac bypass in 1 (2%), combined with 69 outflow procedures (unilateral in 55 patients, 89%), including above-knee femoropopliteal in 12 (17%), below-knee femoropopliteal in 35 (51%), femoroinfrapopliteal in 20 (29%), popliteal tibial in 1 (1%), and femoropedal bypass in 1 (1%). multiple criteria were used to identify patients with multilevel disease likely to benefit from multilevel procedures. the operations were performed by two operating teams in a median time of 240 minutes. prosthetic grafts were used for eight (13%) distal bypasses, the remainder were autogenous vein. there was one operative death (1.8%). the mortality rate, morbidity rate, and operative time were not significantly different from a group of patients who underwent concurrent, isolated inflow operations (aortofemoral, axillobifemoral, femorofemoral bypass or iliac endarterectomy). mean follow-up was 14.9 months (range, 0 to 120). the life-table primary patency for the inflow procedures was 92.6% at 24 months, the outflow was 94.9% at 24 months. cumulative limb salvage was 90.9% at 48-month follow-up. all patients with claudication were relieved of their symptoms. we conclude that complete correction of multilevel disease can be accomplished with operative time, morbidity rate, and patency equal to that of single level repair. multilevel procedures provide complete relief of symptoms in a higher percentage of patients than has been reported after single level repair.
results of coronary surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients with prior coronary surgery the results of coronary artery bypass surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients who have undergone prior coronary surgery are unknown. coronary angioplasty may be performed to relieve angina after surgery either to the native coronary vessels or to grafts. failure of attempted coronary angioplasty may mandate repeat coronary surgery, often in the setting of acute ischemia. from 1980 to 1989, 1,263 patients with prior coronary bypass surgery underwent angioplasty; of these patients, 46 (3.6%) underwent reoperation for failed angioplasty during the same hospital stay. of the 46 patients who underwent reoperation, 33 had and 13 did not have acute ischemia. in the group with ischemia, 3 patients (9.1%) died and 14 (42.4%) died or had a q wave myocardial infarction in the hospital compared with no deaths (p = ns) and no deaths or q wave myocardial infarction (p = 0.005) in the group without ischemia. at 3 years, the actuarial survival rate was 88 +/- 6% in the group with ischemia, whereas there were no deaths in the group without ischemia (p = ns), and freedom from death or myocardial infarction was 51 +/- 10% in the group with ischemia, versus no events in the group without ischemia (p = 0.006). in most patients with prior coronary bypass surgery, coronary angioplasty was performed without the need for repeat coronary bypass surgery. should coronary angioplasty fail, reoperation in patients without acute ischemia can be performed with overall patient survival comparable to that of elective reoperative coronary bypass without coronary angioplasty.
human hepatic regenerative stimulator substance: partial purification and biological characterization of hepatic stimulator substance from human fetal liver cells. current support or replacement therapies for fulminant acute hepatic failure are frequently very disappointing. in this study, human hepatic stimulator substance--a liver-specific growth factor--was partially purified from human fetal liver cells and characterized by its biological effects. almost 70-fold protein content was purified with an approximately 80-fold increase in specific growth stimulator activity. human hepatic stimulator substance proved to be heat-stable, protease-sensitive, organ-specific and species-nonspecific. human hepatic stimulator substance produced a two- to threefold increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation into hepatic dna when injected intraperitoneally into growing weanling mice (nonhepatectomized) or regenerating rats (34% hepatectomy). the effects of hhss in reversing the lethality of d-galactosamine (1.6 gm/kg body weight)-induced hepatic necrosis in rats were further evaluated. a survival rate of 4% (n = 24), 41% (n = 12, p less than 0.05), 33% (n = 12, p less than 0.05), 31% (n = 13, p less than 0.05) and 18% (n = 11, p greater than 0.05) was observed when the rats were injected with 4 ml of saline intraperitoneally, 4 ml of human intact fetal hepatocytes (2.4 x 10(8] intraperitoneally, 4 ml of human hepatic stimulator substance intraperitoneally, 2 ml of twofold concentrated human hepatic stimulator substance intravenously and 1 ml of fourfold human hepatic stimulator substance intramuscularly, respectively, 20 hr after poisoning.
hla-d locus associations in alopecia areata. drw52a may confer disease resistance. because predisposition to autoimmunity has been associated with hla-d alleles and alopecia areata is hypothesized to be a t-cell mediated autoimmune hair loss, we determined dr and dq alleles in 88 white and 10 american black patients with alopecia areata as well as controls with the use of restriction fragment length polymorphism typing with cdna probes. white patients with alopecia areata have an increase in the phenotype frequencies of dr4 and dqw8 and an increase in genotype frequencies of dr4 and dr5 (now drw11[5]). these associations are in agreement with those reported in two other studies but are not significant when corrected by the number of hla antigens tested. sixty-one percent of all patients with aa have dr4 and/or drw11(5) specificities vs 40% of controls, with more dr4,drw11(5) and dqw7(w3), dqw8(w3) heterozygotes among patients. dqw6(w1) phenotype frequencies and drw52a phenotype and genotype frequencies are significantly decreased in patients with alopecia areata relative to controls. this highly significant negative association with the hla drb3 allele drw52a in whites persisted even when dr4- or drw11(5)-positive individuals were excluded from the patient and control groups. these data suggest that hla-dr4 and drw11(5) with their associated dqw7(w3) and dqw8(w3) specificities may confer susceptibility to alopecia areata, while drw52a may confer resistance.
outcome of patients with chronic affective disorder: a five-year follow-up. patients with major depression, mania, or schizo-affective disorder that had been present without remission for 2 years or more at intake (n = 129) were followed prospectively for 5 years, as were 580 patients who had been ill for shorter periods at intake. despite very substantial durations of episode, three-quarters of the chronic patients recovered, although recovery occurred much later in the follow-up period than it did among the nonchronic patients. factors associated with recovery were less severe illness at intake, lack of psychotic features, good friendship patterns in adolescence, and, most important, a relatively high maximum level of functioning in the 5 years preceding intake.
primary invasive carcinoma of the vagina. a retrospective review was conducted of 53 women with invasive carcinoma of the vagina and without documented exposure to diethylstilbestrol who were seen at the university of california irvine medical center, long beach memorial medical center, and saddleback memorial medical center from 1976-1988. forty-seven (89%) had squamous cell carcinoma and six (11%) adenocarcinoma. thirty-seven (70%) were treated with whole-pelvis irradiation and brachytherapy, nine with surgery alone, and the other seven with a combination of treatments. the crude and corrected 2-year survival rates for the entire group were 47 and 69%, respectively. those with previous pelvic surgery were more likely to develop serious treatment-related complications. there was a statistically significant correlation between previous hysterectomy and the diagnosis of primary invasive carcinoma of the vagina after the onset of symptoms. women diagnosed during routine examination, before symptom onset, tended to have a survival advantage. all women, including those who have had hysterectomy, should be counseled to continue gynecologic cancer surveillance regardless of age.
frequent mutation of the p53 gene in human esophageal cancer. sequence alterations in the p53 gene have been detected in human tumors of the brain, breast, lung, and colon, and it has been proposed that p53 mutations spanning a major portion of the coding region inactivate the tumor suppressor function of this gene. to our knowledge, neither transforming mutations in oncogenes nor mutations in tumor suppressor genes have been reported in human esophageal tumors. we examined four human esophageal carcinoma cell lines and 14 human esophageal squamous cell carcinomas by polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct sequencing for the presence of p53 mutations in exons 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. two cell lines and five of the tumor specimens contained a mutated allele (one frameshift and six missense mutations). all missense mutations detected occurred at g.c base pairs in codons at or adjacent to mutations previously reported in other cancers. the identification of aberrant p53 gene alleles in one-third of the tumors we tested suggests that mutations at this locus are common genetic events in the pathogenesis of squamous cell carcinomas of the esophagus.
adenocarcinoma arising in a foregut cyst of the mediastinum. a case of malignant transformation in a mediastinal cyst of the esophageal reduplication type is presented. the cyst had been recognized 39 years previously, but remained asymptomatic until sudden growth occurred. it was resected totally from the esophagus and the patient recovered well. a review of the literature showed that malignancy in mediastinal foregut cysts is extremely rare.
methylation-sensitive sequence-specific dna binding by the c-myc basic region. the function of the c-myc oncoprotein and its role in cell growth control is unclear. a basic region of c-myc is structurally related to the basic motifs of helix-loop-helix (hlh) and leucine zipper proteins, which provide sequence-specific dna binding function. the c-myc basic region was tested for its ability to bind dna by attaching it to the hlh dimerization interface of the e12 enhancer binding factor. dimers of the chimeric protein, termed e6, specifically bound an e box element (ggccacgtgacc) recognized by other hlh proteins in a manner dependent on the integrity of the c-myc basic motif. methylation of the core cpg in the e box recognition site specifically inhibited binding by e6, but not by two other hlh proteins. expression of e6 (but not an e6 dna binding mutant) suppressed the ability of c-myc to cooperate with h-ras in a rat embryo fibroblast transformation assay, suggesting that the dna recognition specificity of e6 is related to that of c-myc in vivo.
atrial activation sequence during atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model and its effects on the polarity of the flutter wave in the electrocardiogram. stable atrial flutter induced in both conscious and open chest states was studied in 30 mongrel dogs after production of sterile pericarditis. during the conscious state studies, induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 128 +/- 15 ms) was always sustained greater than 15 min and was stable. three types of flutter wave polarity were noted in electrocardiogram (ecg) lead ii: positive in 16 dogs, negative in 3 and flat or slightly positive in 11. sequential site atrial mapping during atrial flutter (mean cycle length 133 +/- 18 ms) in the open chest state showed either clockwise (18 dogs) or counterclockwise (12 dogs) circus movement in the right atrium. in 19 of 30 dogs, the circus movement clearly did not require any naturally existing anatomic obstacle; in 11, the orifice of the superior vena cava probably was also involved. double potentials were recorded from the center of the reentrant circuit during atrial flutter, and fractionated electrograms were recorded from a pivot point of the reentrant wave front. a positive flutter wave in ecg lead ii (12 dogs with counterclockwise circus movement) was associated with early activation of the bachmann's bundle region compared with the posteroinferior left atrium and activation of the left atrium mainly in a superoinferior direction. a negative flutter was associated with the early activation of the posteroinferior left atrium compared with bachmann's bundle and activation of a considerable portion of the left atrium in an inferosuperior direction. a flat or slightly positive flutter wave (14 of 18 with clockwise circus movement) was associated with activation of the left atrium almost simultaneously by two wave fronts coming from both these sites. in conclusion, atrial flutter in this dog model is due to circus movement in the right atrium, the center of which does not necessarily require an anatomic obstacle. although atrial flutter is generated by circus movement in the right atrium, the flutter wave polarity in the ecg is determined primarily by the activation sequence of the left atrium.
epidemiologic studies demonstrating increased morning incidence of sudden cardiac death. to determine if sudden cardiac death shows a circadian variation, the mortality records of the massachusetts population and the framingham heart study were analyzed. the massachusetts mortality data analysis revealed an increased morning incidence for out-of-hospital cardiac deaths similar to that previously described for nonfatal myocardial infarction. the records of the framingham heart study allowed more comprehensive analysis of the time of sudden cardiac death. in this study, a prominent circadian variation was also identified in which frequency of sudden cardiac death increased sharply between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.; distribution was fairly even throughout the rest of the day. this circadian pattern may be explained in part by physiologic changes that increase the likelihood of ventricular fibrillation or increase the risk of thrombosis in the morning hours. the possible role of the morning increase in physical and mental activity as a trigger of sudden cardiac death requires further investigation.
prune belly syndrome in females: a triad of abdominal musculature deficiency and anomalies of the urinary and genital systems. we describe seven female patients with deficient abdominal wall musculature and urinary tract and genital anomalies that represent the female equivalent of the prune belly syndrome. urethral atresia, uterine duplication, and anorectal anomalies occurred frequently. the perinatal mortality rate was high; of the four surviving patients, renal failure developed in two and renal transplantation was required. the analysis of these cases suggests that urethral obstruction is an important factor contributing to the development of the prune belly syndrome in females.
marijuana smoking as a possible cause of tongue carcinoma in young patients. a case of t1n0m0 carcinoma of the tongue in a male 23-year-old 'regular' marijuana smoker is described. hemiglossectomy and complete bilateral neck dissection were carried out. no post-operative radiotherapy was given as the resection margins were histologically negative. the tumour recurred one year later in the left cervical region involving the mandible and surgery was again performed, but after three months, neck disease was still evident. the case described case implies the introduction of marijuana as a possible new risk factor in the development of oral cavity tumours. resection of the primary lesion has to be as wide as possible even in t1 cases, due to the aggressive biological behaviour of such tumours in young subjects.
oral zidovudine, continuous-infusion fluorouracil, and oral leucovorin calcium: a phase i study. a phase i clinical, pharmacologic, and biochemical evaluation of escalating oral zidovudine (azt) given over 2 days with a fixed dose of continuous-infusion fluorouracil (800 mg/m2 per day x 3 days) and oral leucovorin calcium was performed. eighteen patients were treated with doses of azt ranging from 1.0 to 9.0 g/m2 per day. nausea and vomiting were dose limiting, with a maximally tolerated dose of 7.5 g/m2 per day. rash and mucositis occurred but were not dose limiting. a dose-related increase in peak plasma levels of azt was observed, and the alpha half-life of azt in plasma (75 min) was unaffected by these high doses. at doses above 4.0 g/m2 per day, trough levels significantly increased, perhaps reflecting prolonged absorption from the gut. no responses were observed; however, a significant increase in dna single-strand breaks was observed in peripheral blood cells after a threshold dose of 4.0 g/m2 per day, confirming a biological effect of azt in this regimen. further trials with an intravenous formulation capable of maintaining plasma levels and circumventing dose-limiting toxicity are warranted.
ultrasonographic detection of the second-trimester fetus with trisomy 18 and trisomy 21. biparietal diameter/femur length ratio and nuchal thickness were found to be sensitive indicators for the prenatal detection of trisomy 18 and trisomy 21. a biparietal diameter/femur length ratio greater than 1.5 sd above the control mean correctly identified 5 of 11 (46%) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 3 of 4 (75%) fetuses with trisomy 18. nuchal thickening (6 mm or more) correctly identified 5 of 12 (41%) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 2 of 4 (50%) fetuses with trisomy 18. the sensitivity and specificity of the biparietal diameter/femur length ratio in detecting either aneuploidy was 53% and 93%, respectively, whereas a thickened nuchal fold had a sensitivity of 44% and a specificity of 100%. the combined use of the two ultrasonographic measurements had an overall sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 93%. prospective ascertainment of these two trisomies appears warranted in low-risk populations.
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia. although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia, esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition. we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy, presumably related to barrett's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease.
rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery. we analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery. in all five cases, thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen. the mean +/- sd shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 +/- 0.4 mm. our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion, which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion.
psychoneuroimmunology. implications for oncology? accumulating evidence indicates that the central nervous system (cns) may regulate the activity of the immune system. although the overall significance of the immune system in cancer remains controversial, psychosocial influences on immune function could potentially provide a mechanism to account for some of the reports of an association between psychosocial factors and cancer prognosis.
coronary collateral recruitment: functional significance and relation to rate of vessel closure. studies in animals and humans have demonstrated the anatomic presence and functional significance of coronary collaterals. the extent of collateralization varies among species and among individuals. collateral vessels are usually adequate for preserving resting regional and global ventricular function in the face of coronary obstruction. during stress, however, collateral supply may be inadequate. collateral development is a time-dependent process during both the initial occlusion and following transient reflow and reclosure. therefore when a previously collateralized coronary occlusion is recanalized and then recloses, the extent of the resulting collateral recruitment will depend, at least in part, upon the period of reflow between the two occlusions. the longer the reflow period, the less enhanced will be the collateralization. this is illustrated in the cases presented and has also been demonstrated in animal studies. the exact mechanisms for this recurrent collateral recruitment need further study.
immunochemical studies of ferrochelatase protein: characterization of the normal and mutant protein in bovine and human protoporphyria. protoporphyria is a hereditary disorder characterized by a marked decrease in the activity of ferrochelatase, the terminal enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. we have prepared specific polyvalent antibodies against bovine ferrochelatase in rabbits. the specificity of the antibody preparation against ferrochelatase was demonstrated by western blot analysis and immunoprecipitation of ferrochelatase activity. the antibody also cross-reacted weakly with ferrochelatase from human mitochondria. to quantify immunoreactive ferrochelatase in tissue samples, a kinetic-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (k-elisa) was developed. ferrochelatase activity and the level of immunoreactive protein were measured in hepatic mitochondria isolated from six normal and nine protoporphyric (homozygous) cattle. ferrochelatase activity was less than 10% of normal in mitochondria from protoporphyric animals; the amount of immunoreactive material was equivalent to that from normal animals. similar studies were performed with samples from three normal and two protoporphyric (heterozygous) humans. ferrochelatase activity was decreased in protoporphyric samples (about 17% of normal, but there was no concomitant decrease in immunoreactive material. these data demonstrate that a normal amount of ferrochelatase protein is present and suggest that bovine and human protoporphyria result from point mutations in the gene encoding ferrochelatase.
physiology and pharmacology of cardiovascular catecholamine receptors: implications for treatment of chronic heart failure. in the sympathetic nervous system the physiologic effects of the endogenous catecholamines noradrenaline (na) and adrenaline (a) are mediated by alpha- and beta-adrenoreceptors (ars). both ar-types can be subdivided into two major subtypes: alpha-ars into alpha-1 (predominant effect: vasoconstriction) and alpha-2 (presynaptic: inhibition of na-release; postsynaptic: vasoconstriction), beta-ars into beta-1 (cardiac effects, renal renin release, and lipolysis) and beta-2 (presynaptic: facilitation of na-release; postsynaptic: vascular, bronchial, and uterine smooth muscle relaxation, glycogenolysis and possibly part of the a-mediated cardiac effects). during the last 30 years growing evidence has accumulated that dopamine (da), the third endogenous catecholamine and the immediate precursor of na, may also cause peripheral effects through stimulation of specific da-receptors, in addition to its known action at alpha- and beta-ars. it is now well accepted that at least two different da-receptors are present in many peripheral tissues (da1 and da2), including those of the cardiovascular and autonomic nervous system. they seem to be involved in dilation of certain vascular beds, inhibition of na-release during nerve stimulation, natriuresis, and aldosterone release. in chronic heart failure cardiac beta-ar function decreases (presumably due to endogenous "down-regulation" by the elevated catecholamines), and this decrease is related to the severity of heart failure (judged clinically by new york heart association functional class). the human heart contains both functional beta-1 and beta-2 ars; cardiac beta-1 and beta-2 ars seem to be differentially affected by different kinds of heart failure; in end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy beta-1 ars are selectively reduced, whereas beta-2 ars are nearly normal.
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in relation to previous use of analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. catalan countries study on upper gastrointestinal bleeding to assess the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with the use of individual non-narcotic analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), a multicentre study of 875 cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and 2682 hospital controls was done. with control for confounding factors, the overall odds ratio estimate for aspirin taken at least once during the week before the first symptom was 7.2 (95% confidence interval 5.4-9.6). non-aspirin nsaids associated with upper gastrointestinal bleeding were diclofenac (7.9 [4.3-14.6]), indomethacin (4.9 [2.0-12.2]), naproxen (6.5 [2.2-19.6]), and piroxicam (19.1 [8.2-44.3]). paracetamol, propyphenazone, and dipyrone did not increase the risk. a previous history of gastrointestinal bleeding or peptic ulcer did not greatly affect odds ratio estimates, which differed according to sex and were higher for younger than for older patients. however, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was higher among the elderly.
catheterization of coronary artery bypass graft from the descending aorta. the increasing frequency of reoperation for coronary artery disease has led to the use of a variety of grafts. this report describes the catheter technique for selective opacification of a saphenous vein graft from the descending thoracic aorta to the posterior coronary circulation.
percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty: initial clinical and quantitative angiographic results in 50 patients. the initial clinical experience and quantitative angiographic results of percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty are described for 55 lesions in 50 patients. with use of a xenon chloride (308 nm) excimer laser generator and 1.5 to 1.75 mm catheters, excimer laser angioplasty was attempted at 135 ns pulse width, 25 to 40 hz repetition rate, 2 to 5 s laser delivery time and 30 to 60 mj/mm2 energy fluence. laser success (greater than 20% reduction in absolute percent diameter stenosis) was achieved in 41 (75%) of 55 lesions, with 100% subsequent balloon angioplasty success (less than 50% residual stenosis). by quantitative digital caliper technique, the percent diameter stenosis (mean +/- se) was reduced from 81 +/- 1% to 50 +/- 3% after excimer laser angioplasty (p less than 0.001) and to 20 +/- 1% after balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001); minimal luminal diameter increased from 0.56 +/- 0.04 to 1.46 +/- 0.08 mm (p less than 0.001) and 2.03 +/- 0.07 mm (p less than 0.001), respectively. by videodensitometric techniques, the percent area stenosis decreased from 86 +/- 2% to 54 +/- 3% after excimer angioplasty (p less than 0.001) and to 26 +/- 3% after balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001). there were no perforations, need for emergency bypass surgery or deaths. the overall incidence of abrupt closure (3.6%), dissection (1.8%), embolization (1.8%), filling defect (6%), myocardial infarction (5.5%), side branch occlusion (3.6%) or spasm (3.6%) was infrequent and more related to subsequent balloon angioplasty than to the laser procedure.
immediate postoperative mammogram for failed surgical excision of breast lesions in a series of 200 consecutive preoperative needle localizations of non-palpable breast lesions, 128 lesions (64%) were calcified and 72 lesions (36%) were noncalcified on preoperative mammograms. radiographs of the surgical specimen failed to confirm excision of 11 lesions (5.5%), seven calcified and four noncalcified. these 11 patients were taken directly from the surgical suite to the radiology suite, where an immediate postoperative mammogram was obtained. in five patients (2.5%), immediate postoperative mammograms showed surgical failure with the lesion still present. in six patients (3.0%), immediate postoperative mammograms showed that the lesion had been removed, even though the lesion had not been identified on surgical-specimen radiographs. no errors occurred in the interpretation of immediate postoperative mammograms, a fact corroborated by examination of surgical specimens obtained at repeat surgery in three patients and identification of skin calcifications in two patients, and with follow-up mammograms in six patients. whenever a discrepancy between preoperative localization radiographs and surgical-specimen radiographs exists, the authors suggest immediate postoperative mammography to improve the diagnostic process.
early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections: clinical and serological study. objective--to find out whether a 10-14 days' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics. design--prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics. patients were seen at three and six weeks and three, six, nine, 12, and 18 months after their first visit. setting--departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in linkoping, malmo, and stockholm, sweden. patients--40 consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks. interventions--20 patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics. all patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks' observation. main outcome measures--arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using ritchies' index; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity; serum igg, igm, and iga antibody titres; hla tissue type. results--no difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis, grade of inflammation, and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics. furthermore, there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin, igg, and iga concentrations. all values had returned to normal within three months. no patient developed chronic arthritis, but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients. the hla-b27 antigen was found in 23 (58%) of the patients, and its presence did not affect clinical outcome. the igg, igm, and iga antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated. conclusion--short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection.
sensitivity of a set of myocardial infarction screening criteria in patients with anatomically documented single and multiple infarcts. a subset of 3 screening criteria (q wave greater than or equal to 30 ms in lead avf, any q or r wave less than or equal to 10 ms and less than or equal to 0.1 mv in lead v2, and r wave greater than or equal to 40 ms in v1) has been proposed to identify single nonacute myocardial infarcts. cumulatively, these 3 criteria achieved 95% specificity, and 84 and 77% sensitivities for inferior and anterior myocardial infarcts, respectively, among patients identified by coronary angiography and left ventriculography. this study establishes the true sensitivities of the set of screening criteria in 71 patients with anatomically proven single myocardial infarcts and 32 patients with multiple myocardial infarcts. in the single inferior infarct group, the avf criterion was 90% sensitive. the v2 criterion (any q or r wave less than or equal to 10 ms and less than or equal to 0.1 mv) was 67% sensitive in the single anterior infarct group. no single criterion proved sensitive in identifying a posterolateral infarct. the set of screening criteria performed just as well for multiple infarcts as it did for single infarcts, with a cumulative sensitivity of 72%. the overall sensitivity of the screening set in the 103 patients in all groups was 71%.
computed tomography in the evaluation of the aorta in patients sustaining blunt chest trauma. computed tomography is used with increasing frequency to evaluate blunt chest trauma. since traumatic aortic rupture (tar) is a rapidly lethal condition, unnecessary ct scanning may not be justified. to determine the accuracy of chest ct scanning for tar, we reviewed 17 patients who underwent both chest ct scanning and aortography. five patients had tar by aortography. ct scanning yielded three true positives and two false negatives. in 12 patients with a negative aortogram, ct scanning recorded four false positives and eight true negatives. the specificity was 23% and the sensitivity was 83% compared with aortography. the overall accuracy for ct scanning was 53%. from these data we conclude that in the presence of an unstable patient or where there is a strong clinical suspicion of tar the patient should proceed directly to aortography.
lung thallium-201 uptake during exercise emission computed tomography. to test whether the analysis of lung uptake is worth adding to the interpretation of exercise thallium-201 (201ti) emission computed tomography (ect), a lung/heart ratio of 201ti uptake was measured from an anterior image during ect in 25 clinically normal (group 1), 91 angiographically normal (group 2), and 265 subjects with coronary artery disease (group 3). the mean +2 s.d. of ratios in groups 1 and 2 were the same (0.37). in group 3, 80 subjects (30%) with increased ratios (greater than 0.37) had higher frequencies of prior infarction and multi-vessel disease, more severe left ventricular dysfunction, and 201ti defects than 185 subjects with normal ratios. subjects with markedly increased ratios (greater than 0.45) had three-vessel disease more frequently than those with slightly or moderately increased ratios (67% versus 14% or 35%). thus the measurement of lung/heart ratios may provide information regarding the severity of coronary artery disease and should be added to the routine interpretation of exercise ect.
transferrin receptor activity as a marker in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. an immunohistochemical staining method was used to study transferrin receptors (tfr) in bladder tissue from 10 patients with benign conditions and 33 with bladder cancer. all patients with bladder cancer were followed up by cystoscopy at intervals of 3 months (mean follow-up period 11 months). the relationship between tfr activity and recurrence rates was investigated. it was not possible to demonstrate tfr in normal bladder mucosa except for the proliferating cells of the basal layer. tfr activity in malignant tissue correlated well with the histological grade and pathological stage of the tumour. patients with low grade superficial tumours showing tfr activity had a higher recurrence rate than those with no tfr activity. it was concluded that tfr activity in low grade superficial bladder tumours is a useful marker for predicting the recurrence rate.
plasma neurotransmitters and cortisol in duodenal ulcer patients. role of stress. levels of noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, free serotonin, platelet serotonin, and cortisol were measured in the plasma of duodenal ulcer patients and controls. all subjects received antacids, and these substances were also measured. during relapse, all patients showed raised noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, free serotonin, and cortisol values. in contrast, platelet serotonin showed very low values, which correlated negatively with all the former, except free serotonin. no correlations were found in parameters of the controls. after healing, significant reductions of noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, free serotonin, and cortisol and significant increases of platelet serotonin values were observed. however, only dopamine, free serotonin, and cortisol reached normal values. noradrenaline and adrenaline remained higher and platelet serotonin lower, both significantly more so than normals. these still-altered parameters showed similar correlations to those found during relapses. the present results demonstrate that some baseline autonomic system imbalance exists in patients, amplified and accentuated during relapse. we discuss the possibility that stress plays some role in triggering duodenal ulcer relapse.
regulation of gene expression with double-stranded phosphorothioate oligonucleotides. alteration of gene transcription by inhibition of specific transcriptional regulatory proteins is necessary for determining how these factors participate in cellular differentiation. the functions of these proteins can be antagonized by several methods, each with specific limitations. inhibition of sequence-specific dna-binding proteins was achieved with double-stranded (ds) phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained octamer or kappa b consensus sequences. the phosphorothioate oligonucleotides specifically bound either octamer transcription factor or nuclear factor (nf)-kappa b. the modified oligonucleotides accumulated in cells more effectively than standard ds oligonucleotides and modulated gene expression in a specific manner. octamer-dependent activation of a reporter plasmid or nf-kappa b-dependent activation of the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) enhancer was inhibited when the appropriate phosphorothioate oligonucleotide was added to a transiently transfected b cell line. addition of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained the octamer consensus to jurkat t leukemia cells inhibited interleukin-2 (il-2) secretion to a degree similar to that observed with a mutated octamer site in the il-2 enhancer. the ds phosphorothioate oligonucleotides probably compete for binding of specific transcription factors and may provide anti-viral, immunosuppressive, or other therapeutic effects.
the painful shoulder: part ii. intrinsic disorders and impingement syndrome. intrinsic disorders that can cause shoulder pain include arthritis, gout, pseudogout and osteonecrosis. in its mildest form, impingement syndrome may cause only minimal discomfort. at its worst, impingement syndrome may lead to rotator cuff tear. bicipital tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon may also be associated with impingement. early rehabilitative intervention is important. physical therapy is directed toward restoring range of motion and muscle strength.
ultrasound for the detection of foreign bodies. study objective: to determine the ability of an emergency physician to detect a variety of foreign bodies in an experimental model using a portable ultrasound device. design: ten pieces of beef were sliced into cubes approximately 6 cm on each side. six different groups of foreign bodies were examined: gravel, cactus spine, glass, metal, wood, and plastic. an independent observer placed the objects in a random fashion into the beef cubes. one hundred twenty observations were made using sets of ten beef cubes at a time. five foreign bodies were placed into each set of ten beef cubes. interventions: a blinded emergency physician used a portable ultrasound with a 7.5-mhz transducer to determine the presence or absence of a foreign body in each cube. measurements and main results: ultrasound detected 59 of 60 foreign bodies, including all cubes of meat embedded with gravel, cactus spine, plastic, metal, and wood. glass was detected nine of ten times. of the 60 cubes of meat with no foreign bodies, one false-positive was recorded. this yielded sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 98%. positive determinations by ultrasound were significantly greater in the meat cubes with foreign bodies compared with the control group with no foreign bodies (p less than .001 by chi 2). although the subset of glass foreign bodies had one false-positive and one false-negative, it was not significantly different in comparison with the other groups (p greater than .05 by chi 2). conclusion: ultrasound has promise as a diagnostic tool for the detection of a variety of foreign bodies. further clinical studies using ultrasound for the detection of foreign bodies are warranted.
computed tomographic and ultrasonographic findings in women with acute fatty liver of pregnancy. acute fatty liver of pregnancy is associated with complications that can influence antepartum management and necessitate delivery. to date, liver biopsy has been regarded as the "gold standard" for diagnosis. radiologic evaluation of the liver has been suggested as a less invasive means of diagnosing this entity. five patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy underwent ultrasonography; three underwent concomitant computed tomography (ct) of the liver. the liver appeared to be normal in all the patients undergoing ct evaluation and all undergoing ultrasonography except one. normal liver examinations are not unusual findings in patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
histologic investigation of vascular malformations of the face after transarterial embolization with ethibloc and other agents. twenty-one vascular malformations located in the facial area, 11 high-flow arteriovenous malformations and 10 slow-flow malformations, underwent combined treatment by embolization and later surgery. embolization was performed simultaneously with superselective angiography of the branches of the external carotid artery. the new biodegradable fibrosing agent ethibloc was used in 16 cases. histologic examination of the surgical specimens confirmed the good target orientation by the transarterial injection of ethibloc. limitations of this technique are discussed. the agent proved to have thrombogenic and fibrogenic properties. some of the vascular walls degenerated and ruptured following the embolization, but there were no instances of necrosis of interstitial tissue or skin. embolization treatment of vascular malformations of the face was not curative, but it facilitated subsequent surgery in all examined cases.
malnutrition and acute respiratory tract infections in filipino children. the impact of malnutrition on morbidity and mortality associated with acute respiratory tract infection (ari) was studied in filipino children less than 5 years old. malnutrition measured by weight-for-age z-scores of less than -3 sd and less than -2 sd from the national center for health statistics median reference population was associated with the following significant relative risks of morbidity: 1.24 (95% confidence interval [ci] = 1.14, 1.34) and 1.14 (95% ci = 1.08, 1.19), respectively, for ari; and 1.9 (95% ci = 1.46, 2.39) and 1.2 (95% ci = 1.03, 1.47), respectively, for acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri). these risk ratios remained significant when adjusted for age, crowding, and parental smoking. malnourished children with severe alri also had a mortality risk two to three times higher than that of healthy children. this risk remained significant even when adjusted for significant predictors of mortality, including clinical complications, concurrent measles, severe infections, and female gender; and for clinical factors, including extent of pneumonic infiltrates, dehydration, and hepatic enlargement. these findings underscore the importance of nutritional intervention in the control of morbidity and mortality among patients with ari.
modifying the translabyrinthine approach to preserve hearing during acoustic tumour surgery. removing an acoustic schwannoma using the translabyrinthine approach has previously been considered incompatible with hearing preservation. by modifying the approach and preventing the loss of endolymph, we have successfully removed an intracanalicular acoustic schwannoma, which originated from the inferior vestibular nerve, and preserved hearing in the operated ear. this report represents the preliminary findings using this particular technique in the management of an intracanalicular acoustic tumour.
the fat embolism syndrome. a review. while fat embolism occurs in most (more than 90%) patients with traumatic injury, the fat embolism syndrome (fes) occurs in only 3%-4% of patients with long-bone fractures. fes involves multiple organ systems and can cause a devastating clinical deterioration within hours. the major clinical features of fes include hypoxia, pulmonary edema, central nervous system depression, and axillary or subconjunctive petechiae. improvements have been made in supporting the respiratory compromise and adult respiratory distress syndrome that these patients develop. aggressive measures to improve the pulmonary function, i.e., positive pressure ventilation and effective fluid management, are important and expedite fixation of bone fractures.
management of urinary tract infections in children. urinary tract infection is common in children. the presentation varies with age. younger children exhibit protean signs. diagnosis is dependent on the demonstration of significant bacteriuria in a properly collected and handled urine sample. the approach to treatment depends on the degree of illness at presentation, the presence of structural urinary tract abnormalities, and the age of the patient. pathophysiology of urinary tract infection is dependent on interactive factors of the host and of the invading microorganism. urinary tract abnormalities have significant impact on the management of children with urinary tract infections, both medically and surgically. of particular importance is the observation that renal damage usually occurs within the first 5 years of life, and treatment delay in some young patients may have significant consequences. the overall prognosis in children with urinary tract infection is favorable.
cardiac arrest in seattle: conventional versus amiodarone drug evaluation (the cascade study). this randomized study evaluates survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (vf) not associated with a q-wave acute myocardial infarction who are deemed to be at a high risk of recurrence of vf. it compares the outcome of treatment with empirically administered amiodarone with the outcome of treatment with other antiarrhythmic agents guided by electrophysiologic testing or holter recording, or both. the goal of therapy guided by electrophysiologic testing is to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia (vt) or vf. holter recording is used as the primary means of adjusting therapy only if patients are noninducible at the baseline electrophysiologic study. patients are stratified according to cardiac diagnosis, ejection fraction, and whether they had previously received an antiarrhythmic agent that failed to suppress their arrhythmias. the primary end point of the study is total cardiac mortality. the first patient was enrolled in a pilot study on april 26, 1984. by october 1988, 142 patients had been enrolled in the full study and, as of may 1990, 199 patients have been enrolled. compliance with therapy has been good, with no patients lost to follow-up and 8% of patients, equal in both drug groups, crossing over to alternate therapy. baseline clinical characteristics remain similar in amiodarone and conventional drug groups. pulmonary toxicity with amiodarone is 7% at 1 year, with no patients dying of pulmonary toxicity. in the first 142 patients, the overall 1-year cardiac mortality was 19%, with a 17% arrhythmic mortality (either vf or presumed arrhythmic death).
sports-related and non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in young adults. sports-related sudden cardiac deaths were compared with non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in individuals (14 to 40 years old) who were autopsied from 1981 to 1988 at the maryland medical examiner's office. thirty-four of 690 total cases of sudden cardiac death were sports-related, which represents 5% of sudden cardiac death in this age group. causes of death were severe atherosclerosis (nine), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry (eight), coronary artery anomalies (four), idiopathic concentric left ventricular hypertrophy (three), myocarditis (two), arrhythmogenic right ventricle (one), kawasaki disease (one), and unknown (six); two of the cases with unknown causes had tunnel arteries. exercise-related deaths were more likely due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0007) compared with 102 age-, sex-, and race-matched controls in the non-exercise group; there was no difference in the incidence of severe atherosclerosis (p = 0.4). the mean age of individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry was less than that of those with severe atherosclerosis (24 vs 32 years, p = 0.03). thus exercise precipitates sudden cardiac death in younger individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
thyrotoxicosis induced by topical iodine application. we describe an elderly man who was admitted with congestive cardiac failure and found to have thyrotoxicosis. he did not have goiter, and he had normal radioiodine uptake in his neck. serum iodine levels were elevated, explaining the lack of increase in radioiodine uptake in the thyroid gland. he had multiple pressure sores, which were treated with povidone-iodine (betadine) soaks. biochemical data were consistent with graves' disease unmasked by topical iodine application. povidone-iodine soaks are commonly used in decubitus ulcer care and warrant special attention in patients with preexisting thyroid disorders. we have reviewed the literature on this unusual complication.
recovery of retrograde fast pathway excitability in the atrioventricular node reentrant circuit after concealed anterograde impulse penetration. the recovery of the retrograde fast pathway excitability in atrioventricular (av) node reentry has been difficult to assess with ventricular extrastimulation because of difficulty in achieving sufficiently short intranodal coupling intervals and the potential interposition of "lower common pathway" nodal tissue. to circumvent these methodologic obstacles in 10 patients with inducible av node reentrant tachycardia, a fixed atrial extrastimulus (a2) coupled to a basic atrial drive (a1) at a cycle length of 500 ms was utilized to reproducibly initiate av node reentrant echoes. a ventricular extrastimulus (v3) was then introduced after a2 at progressively shorter coupling intervals (a2v3) in an attempt to pre-excite the retrograde fast pathway after concealed anterograde penetration by a2. in six patients, retrograde fast pathway pre-excitation was achieved at critical a2v3 intervals, as evidenced by the appearance of a3 by up to 28 +/- 6 ms in advance of the expected first av node reentrant echo. in five of the six cases, the v3a3 interval was virtually unaltered (less than or equal to 5 ms decrease) when a2 was omitted. in seven patients, at a critically short a2v3 coupling interval (195 +/- 27 ms ), v3 abruptly failed to elicit a3 and concomitantly abolished all av node echoes; yet when a2 was omitted, an a3 response returned, with v3a3 identical to previous values.
hepatic histological findings after transplantation for chronic hepatitis b virus infection, including a unique pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. long-term follow-up of 27 patients with hepatitis b virus-related chronic liver disease treated by transplantation showed that 23 had hepatitis b virus recurrence. in 13 patients late changes in the grafts were similar to those described in other series: minor abnormalities in five cases, chronic active hepatitis in five cases and non-hepatitis b virus-related graft dysfunction in three cases. three patients had incomplete histological follow-up. analysis of the histological changes and viral antigen expression in six cases revealed a distinct and novel pattern termed fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. development of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis was associated with rapidly progressive graft dysfunction. it is postulated that this pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis develops because of a high cytoplasmic expression of viral antigens, including hbsag. the remaining case had some features of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. the main histological features of this unique syndrome include thin, perisinusoidal bands of fibrosis extending from portal tracts to surround plates of ductular-type epithelium; prominent cholestasis; ground-glass transformation; and ballooning of hepatocytes with cell loss and mild mixed inflammatory reaction.
stress response protein (srp-27) determination in primary human breast carcinomas: clinical, histologic, and prognostic correlations expression of an estrogen-regulated protein known as the 27,000-d heat-shock or stress-response protein (srp-27) was evaluated in human breast carcinomas and established breast cancer cell lines. results obtained by northern and western blot analyses and immunohistochemical methods were concordant. immunohistochemical assessment of srp-27 expression in 300 breast carcinomas (with median patient follow-up of 8 years) was performed. twenty-six percent of lymph node-negative and 45% of lymph node-positive tumors were overexpressors. univariate analysis demonstrated significant correlations between srp-27 overexpression and estrogen receptor (er) content, ps2 protein expression, nodal metastases, advanced t stage, lymphatic/vascular invasion, and a shorter disease-free survival period (but not a shorter overall survival) for the study population as a whole. regression tree analysis showed that srp-27 expression was an independent prognostic indicator for disease-free survival only in patients with one to three positive lymph nodes. the cox proportional hazards model confirmed the independent prognostic significance of nodal involvement, t stage, and er content but failed to recognize srp-27 overexpression as a significant independent parameter predictive of patient outcome in the patient population as a whole. the observed associations between srp-27 overexpression and more aggressive tumors suggest a biologic role for srp-27 in human breast carcinomas.
acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula: report of 16 consecutive cases. sixteen cases of acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula were treated in a 20-year period. a delay in diagnosis was usual, and most patients were first seen with a pulmonary infection already developed. contrast esophageal x-ray studies established the diagnosis in all patients. there were seven esophagotracheal and nine esophagobronchial fistulas. a fistula between the esophageal diverticulum and a bronchus considered to be of inflammatory origin developed in 7 patients. a fistula as the consequence of trauma developed in 9 patients, and these fistulas were situated at a higher level of the respiratory tree. all patients underwent surgical treatment; in 12 it was definitive, and in 4 temporary gastrostomy was performed to improve nutrition before definite repair. the definitive repair consisted of eventual diverticulectomy, division of the fistula, and suture of both esophageal and respiratory defects. two patients required esophageal resection and later reconstruction with colon interposition. one patient died, creating an operative mortality of 8.3% in the definitive-repair group. the remaining 11 patients had a gratifying long-term result. there were two deaths in the gastrostomy group due to an extremely poor condition of patients and debilitating pulmonary infection. early diagnosis of this rare condition is necessary if severe pulmonary complications are to be avoided. early direct repair gives excellent results.
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section: a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia. the morphine was administered as a single bolus, following delivery, in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg. the charts of 4880 caesarean sections, performed on 4500 patients, were reviewed. the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded. the duration of analgesia was 22.9 +/- 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine. eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr. twelve patients (0.25 per cent) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute, on at least one occasion. no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea. pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients, nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent. herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients. epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose. even in this young healthy patient population, clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated.
castanospermine vs. its 6-o-butanoyl analog: a comparison of toxicity and antiviral activity in vitro and in vivo. inhibitors of glycoprotein processing, such as castanospermine (1,6,7,8-tetrahydroxyoctahydroindolizine), have been shown previously to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) with acceptable toxicity in cultured human cells. in prior experiments, we have tested the toxicity and antiviral efficacy of castanospermine in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus (rlv). when compared with 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (azt, zidovudine), castanospermine was less effective and more toxic. since the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine was previously found to have a more favorable activity profile than the parent compound against hiv-1 in cultured cells, we compared the antiviral efficacy of both compounds in parallel in vitro and in vivo in the rlv system. plaque formation in the xc assay was inhibited with a 50% inhibitory concentration (ic50) of 2.4 microm for the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine, as compared to 9 microm for castanospermine. for both compounds, concentrations resulting in significant cytotoxicity were about ten times higher. both compounds significantly decreased hiv-1 env-induced syncytium formation in a novel in vitro assay. in rlv-exposed mice, the 6-o-butanoyl analog showed no advantage over the parent compound: both curves for toxicity as well as antiviral efficacy were super-imposable. we conclude that the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine as well as castanospermine itself are active antiviral agents in mice and that prolonged oral administration is tolerable. however, in comparison to azt, their antiviral activity profiles are less favorable.
the effects of tartar-control toothpaste on the oral soft tissues. ninety-two dental and dental hygiene students completed a double-blind, controlled clinical trial. the purpose of the trial was to evaluate the effects of toothpastes, in varying concentrations of flavor and tartar-control agents. four formulations of toothpastes were assessed: (a) control-low flavor with no tartar control; (b) medium flavoring with medium tartar control; (c) high flavoring with medium tartar control; and (d) medium flavoring with no tartar control. soft tissue reactions were assessed objectively and independently by three examiners. subjective perceptions about each toothpaste were gathered by a structured, open-ended questionnaire. the "tartar control" toothpastes, b and c, resulted in statistically significant (p less than 0.005) higher rates of mucosal reactions (e.g., ulceration, sloughing, erythema, migratory glossitis) than the "non-tartar control" toothpastes a and d. when the oral mucosal reaction rates were adjusted for multiple clinical observations within each subject at the same point in time there was no statistically significant (p greater than 0.05) difference between male (0.25) and female (0.28) subjects. in this study population, the order of preference was observed as toothpaste a greater than d greater than b greater than c. the major reasons for disfavor were burning sensation in toothpastes c (2.4%) and b (4%).
rupture of a benign mediastinal teratoma into the right pleural cavity. a 27-year-old woman with a ruptured mediastinal cystic teratoma had high levels of amylase and carcinoembryonic antigen in cystic fluid. the activity of the amylase is thought to be the most likely cause of the rupture. high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen in pleural fluid are not necessarily indicative of a malignant lesion but may suggest the presence of a ruptured teratoma in patients with mediastinal tumors.
coronary artery dissection--a case report. coronary artery dissection, both spontaneous and catheter-induced, is associated with a significant morbidity and mortality. the authors present a case of a middle-aged woman with spontaneous right coronary artery dissection causing inferior wall myocardial infarction and left coronary artery dissection at the time of coronary arteriography. it is suggested that emergency aortocoronary bypass surgery be performed preceded by insertion of an intra-aortic balloon in acute evolving cases where coronary anatomy is favorable to limit infarction and avert loss of life.
adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in persons under 40 years old. a population-based study. data collected by nine population-based tumor registries participating in the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results program of the national cancer institute were analyzed to characterize the epidemiology of noncarcinoid adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in young adults. tumors diagnosed in persons under 40 years old between 1973 and 1984 (n = 1736) were compared with those in persons 40 years and older (n = 106,760). this first large u.s. population-based study of colorectal adenocarcinomas in the young shows a higher incidence in blacks than whites and later detection in black males. it also shows a higher proportion of tumors of mucinous and signet ring histological type than in older age groups. among the younger group, the average annual age-adjusted incidence rate was 34% higher in black males than in white males (12.6 vs. 9.4 per million persons) and 46% higher in black females than in white females (13.0 vs 8.9 per million persons). the proportion of tumors that were right-sided varied by age: 0-29 years, 30%; 30-39 years, 26%; 40-49 years, 22%; 50-59 years, 21%; 60-69 years, 24%; 70-79 years, 30%; and 80+ years, 35%. males under age 40 were less likely to present with localized disease (whites, 27%; blacks, 21%) than were those aged 40 and older (whites, 39%; blacks, 36%). the proportion of tumors classified as mucinous decreased with age, from 28% among those aged 0-19 years to 5% among those 40 years and older. a similar trend was observed for signet ring tumors. although this latter type accounted for 10% of large-bowel tumors among subjects aged 0-19 years, this proportion decreased with age to 0.2% in those 40 years and older.
botulinum toxin therapy. botulinum toxin therapy has emerged as a treatment modality for a variety of spastic- or contracture-related muscle diseases. its safety has been proven for long-term use in the treatment of benign essential blepharospasm, hemifacial spasm, and certain types of strabismus. recent approval from the federal drug administration should make botulinum toxin available for use in a greater number of patients.
diffuse axonal injury: analysis of 100 patients with radiological signs. one hundred patients with head injuries who showed diffuse axonal injury on computed tomographic scans are reported. evaluation of the glasgow coma score, pupillary signs, and computed tomographic findings on admission led to an improved ability to forecast outcomes. our relatively good results as compared with other series, can be explained by the high proportion of children and by the liberal use of computed tomography to evaluate head injuries, thus revealing that concussion may sometimes be regarded as an early form of diffuse axonal injury.
hospital admissions from the surgical day care centre of vancouver general hospital 1977-1987. the admissions to vancouver general hospital from its surgical day care centre were reviewed for the period 1977 to 1987. the overall mean rate of admission for the period was 0.28 per cent, for surgically-related admissions 0.22 per cent and for anaesthesia-related admissions 0.07 per cent. the principal reasons for surgery-related admissions were postoperative bleeding, complications, the need for further surgery, the requirement for prolonged postoperative care, and pain. urology had a particularly high percentage of admissions compared with its workload, because of the diagnostic nature of much of the work. anaesthesia-related admissions included "syncope," lack of an accompanying adult, aspiration pneumonitis and coincident acute disease. twelve of the 14 patients admitted with syncope had surgery in the afternoon and had received less than ideal amounts of intravenous fluid. seven of the 12 asa physical status ii patients admitted had an admission diagnosis related to the coincident disease.
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot. following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action, a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially. in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling; pain also was alleviated. evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided. we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump, based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation. the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor (edrf) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important.
a clinically applicable method for long-term salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle. the clinical significance and applicability of interventions aimed at reducing reperfusion injury in postischemic skeletal muscle remain unproven, since long-term muscle salvage has not been demonstrated by most treatment protocols that attenuate early reperfusion injury. we have shown that reperfusion of ischemic skeletal muscle results in an early and prolonged sequestration of white blood cells and activation of the alternative complement cascade. the purpose of this study was to determine if 40 minutes of reperfusion with blood depleted of white blood cells and complement proteins, followed by 2 days of normal perfusion, would reduce muscle necrosis after 5 hours of ischemia. the isolated paired canine gracilis muscle model was used. the treatment muscle was initially reperfused with arterial blood that had been spun, washed, passed through a leukocyte removal filter, and resuspended in hydroxyethyl starch (greater than 99.9% removal of white blood cells and the complement proteins factor b and c4). the contralateral control muscle was subjected to unaltered reperfusion. blood flow (ml/min/100 gm) was measured by timed collection of gracilis venous blood. myeloperoxidase activity (absorbance at 655 nm/min/mg tissue protein) in muscle biopsies was used to monitor white blood cell sequestration. after 48 hours of reperfusion in vivo, necrosis was quantified by nitroblue tetrazolium staining. initial reperfusion with white blood cell and complement depleted blood significantly reduced muscle necrosis (53% +/- 3% vs 29% +/- 8%, p less than 0.0025, paired t test). early blood flow was improved, (p = 0.0025, repeated measure-anova), but subsequent white blood cell sequestration was not altered (p = 0.33, repeated measure-anova). this suggests that a significant amount of white blood cell mediated injury occurs during the first 40 minutes of reperfusion. preventing early complement activation and white blood cell mediated reperfusion injury is an intervention that is feasible during surgery and may result in clinically significant salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle.
radiation-induced optic neuropathy: a magnetic resonance imaging study. optic neuropathy induced by radiation is an infrequent cause of delayed visual loss that may at times be difficult to differentiate from compression of the visual pathways by recurrent neoplasm. the authors describe six patients with this disorder who experienced loss of vision 6 to 36 months after neurological surgery and radiation therapy. of the six patients in the series, two had a pituitary adenoma and one each had a metastatic melanoma, multiple myeloma, craniopharyngioma, and lymphoepithelioma. visual acuity in the affected eyes ranged from 20/25 to no light perception. magnetic resonance (mr) imaging showed sellar and parasellar recurrence of both pituitary adenomas, but the intrinsic lesions of the optic nerves and optic chiasm induced by radiation were enhanced after gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid (dtpa) administration and were clearly distinguishable from the suprasellar compression of tumor. repeated mr imaging showed spontaneous resolution of gadolinium-dtpa enhancement of the optic nerve in a patient who was initially suspected of harboring recurrence of a metastatic malignant melanoma as the cause of visual loss. the authors found the presumptive diagnosis of radiation-induced optic neuropathy facilitated by mr imaging with gadolinium-dtpa. this neuro-imaging procedure may help avert exploratory surgery in some patients with recurrent neoplasm in whom the etiology of visual loss is uncertain.
neuroanatomic differences between dyslexic and normal readers on magnetic resonance imaging scans. the areas of six bilateral brain segments in the right and left hemispheres, on a horizontal brain section, and the area of subdivisions of the corpus callosum, on a midsagittal brain section, were measured on magnetic resonance images obtained from 21 dyslexic and 29 control subjects. in the entire group, the frontal half of the horizontal brain section showed asymmetry, with the right side being larger, whereas posteriorly only the occipital polar segment was asymmetrical, with the left side being larger. dyslexic subjects exhibited asymmetry, with the right side greater than the left side, in contrast to the relatively symmetrical pattern that is normally observed in the midposterior segment that corresponds to the angular gyrus. in the corpus callosum, dyslexic subjects were found to have a larger splenium than nondyslexic subjects, and dyslexic female subjects were found to have a larger splenium than dyslexic male subjects. because transcallosal pathways connecting the left and right angular gyrus regions traverse through the splenium of the corpus callosum, the above findings in dyslexic subjects suggest an anatomic abnormality in the angular gyrus region.
morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation. repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation. these aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations. specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection. histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients (93%), foreign body reaction in 11 patients (78%), and intimal thickening in 3 patients (21%). the three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms. on the basis of these results, we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms.
effects of prolonged infusion of human alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide on hemodynamics, renal blood flow and hormone levels in congestive heart failure. we have previously demonstrated that short-term infusion of calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp) has beneficial effects in congestive heart failure. the effects of prolonged infusion of cgrp on hemodynamic functions, plasma hormones and renal blood flow were studied in 9 patients with congestive heart failure (new york heart association class iii or iv, ejection fraction less than 35%). hemodynamic variables were measured at 30-minute intervals for 8 hours during cgrp infusion (8 ng/kg/min) and for 2 hours after discontinuation. cgrp caused a decrease in right atrial (28%, p less than 0.05), pulmonary artery (22%, p less than 0.02), pulmonary artery wedge (37%, p less than 0.001) and systemic arterial (18%, p less than 0.05) pressures. systemic vascular resistance decreased more than pulmonary vascular resistance. cardiac output (72%, p less than 0.001) and stroke volume (60%, p less than 0.02) increased. heart rate did not change. there was no evidence of tolerance throughout the infusion. the hemodynamic effects were lost within 30 minutes of stopping cgrp. renal blood flow (34%, p less than 0.01) and glomerular filtration rate (43%, p less than 0.01) increased. atrial natriuretic peptide decreased (p less than 0.05), while plasma cortisol (p less than 0.02) increased. plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, renin activity, aldosterone and growth hormone were unchanged. it is concluded that in patients with severe congestive heart failure, cgrp has sustained beneficial effects on hemodynamic functions and has no adverse effects on hormones. unlike many other vasodilators, cgrp also increases renal blood flow and glomerular filtration.
parascapular free flaps for head and neck reconstruction. we report our experience with single-stage, primary reconstruction of the head and neck in 29 consecutive patients using parascapular free flaps. the commonest indications were for craniofacial defects (9), oropharyngeal soft tissue defects (10), and combined mandibular and soft tissue losses (4). ablative surgery was performed for squamous carcinoma (22), melanoma (2), and malignant fibrous histiocytoma (2). seven patients died of recurrent disease during a 3 1/2 year follow-up. seven patients are alive with recurrence. flap complications included total loss (2) due to unsalvageable microvascular thrombosis, wound breakdown with oropharyngeal fistula (2), mandibular osteomyelitis (1), trismus (2), neck contracture (1), and donor site wound dehiscence (1). the overall success of this reconstruction was 93%. primary wound healing was the general rule with lower morbidity than with other reconstructive techniques. the flap is thin, pliable, and conforms well to three-dimensional defects. the lateral border of the scapula can be incorporated on the same vascular pedicle for single-stage mandibular reconstruction. no muscle is sacrificed, and the posterior donor defect is an added advantage. the parascapular flap is our first choice for reconstruction of major defects in the head and neck.
supportive evidence for the validity of the epidemiologic necropsy for gallstones objective: the epidemiologic necropsy measures the occurrence of unsuspected disease through the examination of necropsy records of patients who died for other reasons. the estimates of unsuspected disease derived from the epidemiologic necropsy should approximate what actually occurs in the living population. design/setting: to test this hypothesis, all necropsy records of adult patients at the university of kansas medical center from 1950 to 1984 were examined for the presence of gallstones. patients with previous cholecystectomy or whose gallstones were diagnosed during life were excluded. the data were stratified by age and race and compared with those of a screening survey from canada, a surgical series from new york, two screening surveys from italy, and one from denmark. the crude necropsy detection rates and the rates from the screening surveys were standardized to the 1970 federal census for kansas city. results/conclusions: the standardized occurrence rates were similar and suggest that the epidemiologic necropsy accurately assesses the occurrence of asymptomatic gallstones in the living population, thus strengthening its validity as a research tool.
the value of indium 111 leukocyte scanning in the evaluation of painful or infected total knee arthroplasties. evaluation of painful total knee arthroplasties (tkas) for infection can be difficult. indium 111 (111in) leukocyte bone scanning provides a minimally invasive technique for evaluation of possible infection. thirty-eight patients with a painful tka who had surgical exploration after 111in leukocyte scanning were reviewed. the scan had an accuracy of 84%, a sensitivity of 83%, and a specificity of 85%. the 111in leukocyte scans must be interpreted in conjunction with the clinical evaluation of the patient because they are less accurate for study of tkas than of total hip arthroplasties.
colonic polyamine content and ornithine decarboxylase activity as markers for adenomas. polyamine content (putrescine, spermidine, and spermine) or ornithine decarboxylase (odc) activity was measured in normal-appearing colonic mucosa from patients undergoing colonoscopy. comparisons were made between those with and those without adenomatous polyps. colonic mucosal polyamine content was measured in 44 persons. mean putrescine content was 1.25 +/- 0.26 (se) nmol/mg protein in 22 patients with adenomatous polyps compared with 0.53 +/- 0.12 nmol/mg protein in patients without polyps (p less than 0.02). tissue content of spermidine and spermine did not differ between these two groups. ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured in tissue from 45 patients. mean odc activity was 2.84 +/- 0.73 pmol/hr/mg protein in 23 persons with adenomatous polyps compared with 1.15 +/- 0.18 pmol/hr/mg protein in persons without polyps (p less than 0.05). mucosal putrescine and odc activity are elevated in patients with adenomatous polyps compared with patients without polyps. these biochemical markers may prove helpful in improving surveillance methods for colorectal cancer and premalignant adenomatous polyps.
azathioprine. an effective, corticosteroid-sparing therapy for patients with recalcitrant cutaneous lupus erythematosus or with recalcitrant cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis. azathioprine sodium has been reported to be effective therapy for chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus (le) but rarely for chronic cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis (lv). we used azathioprine in the treatment of six patients with cutaneous le, four of whom had subacute cutaneous (nonscarring) le and two of whom had chronic cutaneous (scarring, discoid) le, and six patients with chronic cutaneous lv. the conditions of all patients had been resistant to conventional therapy, and they required long-term oral corticosteroid therapy for control of their disease. two of the patients with le had prominent palmar and/or plantar involvement. three patients with le had an excellent response to azathioprine, with near complete clearing of the skin lesions, allowing a decrease in prednisone dosage. one patient with le initially demonstrated significant improvement, but azathioprine therapy had to be discontinued because of pancreatitis. the treatment failed in two patients with le; one had nausea and the other repeatedly developed a drug-induced fever. five of the six patients with lv had improved conditions, with complete control of the disease occurring in two patients and partial control in three patients. azathioprine is effective for some patients with cutaneous le and chronic cutaneous lv, but it should be reserved for patients with severe disease in whom more conventional treatment fails.
severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis advancing to gradual cessation with hyperbaric oxygen. we report a case of a male patient suffering from a severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis which gradually ceased with hyperbaric oxygen. we discuss the mechanisms of chronic radiation injury and the effect of the hyperbaric oxygen. this therapy is proposed as an alternative to surgical intervention for this abnormality.
evaluation of the pre-s (pre-s(1)ag/pre-s(2)ab) system in hepatitis b virus infection. the diagnostic and prognostic value of pre-s(1)ag and pre-s(2)ab was investigated in 69 hbsag surface antigen positive patients--14 with acute hepatitis b, 30 with chronic liver disease (six chronic persistent hepatitis, 14 chronic active hepatitis, 10 with cirrhosis) and in 25 asymptomatic carriers. pre-s(1)ag was found in all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection regardless of viral replication. in contrast, pre-s(2)ab was not detected in any patients. acute hepatitis was studied sequentially with periodic controls at 20 day intervals. pre-s(1)ag cleared before hbsag in six of 14 (43%) patients who progressed favourably, and the two antigens cleared simultaneously in eight of 14 (57%) cases. patients with early clearance of pre-s(1)ag progressed favourably, thus indicating the prognostic value of this test, which, however, is still of limited practical application given the small temporal difference between the moment of clearance of the two antigens. the first markers to clear, however, were hbeag and dna-hbv, which showed significant differences with respect to the clearance of hbsag. moreover, pre-s(2)ab appeared before hbsab in 57.1% of our patients and was found in some patients before pre-s(1)ag and hbsag had cleared (42.8%), thus allowing complete viral clearance and acute hbv infection to be predicted earlier.
everted cervical vein for carotid patch angioplasty. because of the theoretic benefits of autologous vein we undertook an investigation to evaluate cervical veins (facial, external jugular) as patch material after carotid endarterectomy. a device that stimulated both circumferential fixation by sutures and radial tension exerted on in vivo patches was constructed to measure burst strength of tissue. mean bursting pressure for groin saphenous vein (n = 10) was 94.5 +/- 15.1 pounds per square inch (psi), 75.5 +/- 8.9 psi for ankle saphenous vein (n = 10), 83.3 +/- 14.5 psi for everted (double layer) cervical vein (n = 5) and 10 +/- 3.3 psi for single layer cervical vein (n = 5). no significant differences between saphenous vein at any level and everted (double layer) cervical vein, but all were significantly different from single layer cervical vein (p less than 0.05). from june 1987 through november 1989, 19 patients underwent 21 carotid endarterectomies complemented with adjunctive everted cervical vein patch angioplasty. indications for surgery were asymptomatic stenosis (53%), transient ischemic attack (29%), and cerebrovascular accident with recovery (18%). all patients were studied after surgery with duplex scanning. asymptomatic recurrent stenosis was observed in one patient. transient hypoglossal nerve dysfunction occurred in one other patient. one postoperative death occurred as a result of massive aspiration. these results indicate that everted cervical vein is comparable to the saphenous vein in resistance to bursting and can yield similar results as patch material after carotid endarterectomy. accordingly, saphenous vein can be spared and lower extremity incisions avoided.
treatment of chronic liver disease caused by 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency with chenodeoxycholic acid. deficiency of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase, the second enzyme in the sequence that catalyses the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol, leads to chronic liver disease in childhood as well as to malabsorption of fat and fat soluble vitamins. a 4 year old boy with this condition has been successfully treated by oral administration of a bile acid--chenodeoxycholic acid. he had been jaundiced since birth, grew poorly because of rickets, and had severe pruritus. plasma transaminase activities were persistently raised. chenodeoxycholic acid 125 mg twice daily for two months, and then 125 mg daily, cured his jaundice and pruritus, returned his transaminase activities to normal, and eliminated the need for calcitriol for prevention of rickets. on this treatment he has so far remained well for two years. a diagnosis of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency should be considered in any child with unexplained chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis, especially if the liver disease is accompanied by a clinically obvious malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins. a simple colorimetric test of the urine confirms the diagnosis and effective treatment can be started.
influence of hypoxia on adrenergic modulation of triggered activity in isolated adult canine myocytes. although findings from several reports suggest that nonreentrant or focal mechanisms contribute to the genesis of arrhythmias during early ischemia, the contribution of triggered activity arising from early or delayed afterdepolarizations has not been resolved. we have previously demonstrated that beta- but not alpha-adrenergic stimulation induces afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in isolated normoxic myocytes. in the present study, the influence of the extent of cellular derangements as well as increases in [k+]o on alpha- and beta-adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity was evaluated. adult canine myocytes were exposed to one of the following experimental conditions with simultaneous intracellular transmembrane action potential recordings: 1) low po2 (less than 10 mm hg, obtained using a specially designed hypoxic chamber) and low (6.8) ph; 2) low po2, low ph, and high extracellular potassium ([k+]o) (10 mm); or 3) severe metabolic inhibition with cyanide (10(-6) m). cells from each group were superfused with either the alpha-agonist phenylephrine (10(-5) or 10(-7) m, with 10(-5) m nadolol) or the beta-agonist isoproterenol (10(-6) m). moderate changes in the action potentials were observed under conditions 1 and 2 (moderate hypoxia), whereas marked but reversible changes were observed with cyanide (severe metabolic inhibition). during moderate hypoxia in normal [k+]o, delayed afterdepolarizations or triggered activity were elicited by both alpha- (12 of 13 cells) and beta-adrenergic (five of five cells) stimulation. increasing [k+]o during moderate hypoxia completely abolished the afterdepolarizations induced by alpha-adrenergic stimulation and prevented the occurrence of triggered activity. in contrast, the influence of beta-adrenergic stimulation was only attenuated by an increase in [k+]o. exposure to cyanide completely prevented the induction of afterdepolarizations and triggered activity by both alpha- and beta-adrenergic stimulation. our findings indicate that moderate hypoxia in normal [k+]o is associated with the development of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity. in contrast, accumulation of [k+]o or severe impairment of cellular metabolism is accompanied by inhibition of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity.
gallbladder wall thickening (congestive cholecystopathy) in chronic liver disease: a sign of portal hypertension. a thickened gallbladder wall is often seen with ultrasound in alcoholic cirrhosis. hypoalbuminaemia is thought to be the cause since there is a strong association between bowel wall thickening and low serum albumin. to determine the role of portal hypertension in producing gallbladder wall thickening we studied 40 consecutive stable patients-37 with cirrhosis and three with portal hypertension due to primary biliary cirrhosis. ultrasound assessment of the gallbladder wall was made after an overnight fast using a technicare autosector. wall thickness 4 mm or greater was considered abnormal. twenty-seven patients had a thickened gallbladder wall and all had evidence of portal hypertension. hypoalbuminaemia was not an important factor since it was only present in six cases with thickened walls. in two cases reduction in portal pressure with oral propranolol was associated with a decrease in gallbladder wall thickness. these results suggest that portal hypertension, not hypoalbuminaemia, is the dominant factor causing gallbladder wall thickening in cirrhosis. ultrasound demonstration of gallbladder wall thickening in chronic liver disease should suggest the presence of portal hypertension.
patients in a persistent vegetative state attitudes and reactions of family members. patients in a persistent vegetative state (pvs) constituted approximately 3% of the population in four milwaukee nursing homes. in order to understand family members' attitudes and reactions toward such patients, 33 (92%) of 36 family members of patients in pvs contacted were studied. the age of the patients ranged from 19 to 95 with a mean age of 73.4 +/- 17.2 years, and family members' ages ranged from 41 to 89 with a mean age of 61.8 +/- 3.3 years. the etiology of the pvs varied from dementia to cerebral trauma. the mean duration of the pvs was 54 +/- 8.4 months (range 12 to 204). family members reported that they visited patients 260 times during the first year following the onset of the pvs and were still visiting at a rate of 209 visits yearly at the time of the interview. there was no significant correlation between the frequency of the family members visits and the duration of the pvs, the patient's or family member's age, or the family member's relationship to the patient. ninety percent of patients were considered by family members to have some awareness of pain, light or darkness, environment, taste, verbal conversation, or the family member's presence. most family members thought they understood the patient's medical condition, and the majority did not expect the patient to improve. nevertheless, the majority of family members wanted the patient to undergo therapeutic interventions, including transfer to the acute hospital and surgery.
neuropeptide y and neuron-specific enolase levels in benign and malignant pheochromocytomas. neuron-specific enolase (nse) is the isoform of enolase, a glycolytic enzyme found in the neuroendocrine system. neuropeptide y (npy) is a peptide recently discovered in the peripheral and central nervous systems. serum nse and plasma npy levels have been reported to be increased in some patients with pheochromocytoma. the authors evaluated whether the measurement of these molecules could help to discriminate between benign and malignant forms of pheochromocytoma. the nse levels were normal in all patients with benign pheochromocytoma (n = 13) and elevated in one half of those with malignant pheochromocytoma (n = 13). plasma npy levels were on the average significantly higher in the malignant (177.1 +/- 38.9 pmol/l, n = 16) than in the benign forms of the disease (15.7 +/- 389 pmol/l, n = 24). however, there was no difference in the percentage of patients with elevated npy levels. these results show that determination of serum nse may be useful for distinguishing between malignant and benign pheochromocytoma; the measurement of plasma npy is not useful for differentiating the two kinds of tumors.
hemodynamic and electrophysiologic evaluation of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy surviving cardiac arrest. hemodynamic and electrophysiologic studies were performed in 30 survivors of sudden cardiac arrest with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc) to determine responsible factors. electrophysiologic abnormalities alone were present in 27 patients (90%): sinus node dysfunction in 14 (47%), delayed atrio-ventricular nodal conduction in 1 (3%), abnormal his-purkinje conduction in 7 (23%), an inducible atrial tachycardia in 7 (23%), and inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia in 21 (70%). sustained ventricular arrhythmia was polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt) in 18 patients (86%), monomorphic vt in 2 patients (7%) and ventricular fibrillation in 1 patient (3%). in 1 patient the arrhythmia recorded during an episode of cardiac arrest and induced at electrophysiologic study was polymorphic vt. vt was induced with less than or equal to 2 extra-stimuli in only 1 patient (3%) but with less than or equal to 3 extra-stimuli in 20 patients (97%). potential causes of sudden cardiac arrest were found in all patients and were multiple in 13 patients (43%). these were (1) ventricular electrical instability in 21 patients (70%), (2) severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in 8 patients (27%), (3) bradycardia in 5 patients (17%), (4) myocardial ischemia associated with hypotension in 5 patients (17%), and (5) atrial tachycardia resulting in hypotension in 4 patients (13%). of the 21 patients with inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia, 17 received an implantable defibrillator device and 4 were treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. seven patients underwent left ventricular septal myectomy.
prospective evaluation of clinical and pathologic detection of axillary metastases in patients with carcinoma of the breast. complete axillary dissection was performed in 287 patients undergoing modified radical mastectomy between 1984 and 1987 to identify patterns of axillary node metastases, as well as discontinuous axillary node ("skip") metastases. positive pathologic findings were compared with preoperative clinical examinations in 266 patients and showed only 60 cases (22.6%) clinically suspicious for tumor, in contrast to 131 (45.6%) with pathologically confirmed positive lymph nodes. axillary contents were classified level i, ii, or iii based on their relationship to the pectoralis minor muscle. an average of 24.2 nodes was resected per patient (level i, 10; level ii, 8.1; and level iii, 5.3). tumors ranged in size from 0.5 to 12.0 cm (mean, 2.6 cm), and increasing tumor size was associated with an increased likelihood of positive nodes. the data on 204 patients with complete clinical and pathologic data show that of 119 patients with negative level i nodes a limited axillary dissection (level i only) would fail to identify 6 with positive level ii and 2 with positive level iii nodes, whereas of 85 patients with positive level i nodes limited axillary dissection would fail to identify 17 with positive level ii nodes, 7 with positive level iii nodes, and 27 with positive levels ii and iii nodes. complete axillary dissection (levels i, ii, and iii) should be performed to stage patients accurately, as well as to remove tumor-involved nodes and diminish local axillary recurrences. clinical examination of the axilla appears to be a poor means of identifying axillary metastatic cancer.
emergency center ultrasonography in the evaluation of hemoperitoneum: a prospective study. the reliability of ultrasonographic detection (us) of hemoperitoneum in blunt abdominal trauma was evaluated in a prospective study of 72 patients. independent of the examiner, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were, respectively, 86.7%, 100%, and 97.2%. laparotomy was indicated in 76.9% of us hemoperitoneum-positive cases. no negative laparotomies were performed in this study group. if hemoperitoneum is revealed in us and vital signs are unstable, we think laparotomy is indicated. we believe that us in an emergency center is a quick, safe screening method in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. us might take over a great part of the role of diagnostic peritoneal lavage.
relative frequencies of portosystemic pathways and renal shunt formation through the "posterior" gastric vein: portographic study in 460 patients. percutaneous transhepatic portography was carried out in 460 patients with portal hypertension to study various collateral routes. besides the left gastric vein, which was the most frequent collateral route and feeder of esophageal varices, a distinct vein located between the left gastric vein and the short gastric vein constituted a major collateral route in 191 patients (42%). in terms of frequency, this vein was more significant than the short gastric (34%) and the paraumbilical vein (24%) as a collateral route. we propose that this previously anonymous vein be called the "posterior gastric" vein because it runs posterior to the stomach. this vein also formed a renal shunt, a common cause of encephalopathy, in 43 (23%) of the 191 patients; the relative frequency of renal shunt formation by this vein was significantly greater than that by the left gastric vein (12%) and the short gastric vein (18%).
myocardial epinephrine sensitization with subanesthetic concentrations of halothane in dogs. the authors investigated myocardial epinephrine sensitization by subanesthetic concentrations of halothane. the dose-response relationship for the action of halothane was examined with etomidate plus varying subanesthetic concentrations of halothane in dogs. the arrhythmogenic threshold of epinephrine was decreased in a dose-dependent manner at end-tidal concentrations of halothane between 0.1 and 0.3%. at end-tidal halothane is greater than 0.3%, and no further reduction of arrhythmogenic threshold of epinephrine occurred. the plasma concentrations of epinephrine producing four or more premature ventricular contractions in 15 s were 201.3 +/- 34.3, 98.1 +/- 13.9, 60.3 +/- 8.63, 57.9 +/- 12.8, 54.5 +/- 8.61, and 53.9 +/- 4.86 ng/ml (mean +/- sem), at 0, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5% of halothane at end-tidal concentrations, respectively. the results suggest that in the presence of etomidate, halothane produces myocardial sensitization to epinephrine at subanesthetic concentrations as low as 0.1%. increasing halothane to 0.3% produces a further reduction in the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine.
duodenogastric reflux and gastric histology after cholecystectomy with or without sphincteroplasty. sixteen patients who had undergone cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty, 14 cholecystectomized patients and ten control patients were studied to evaluate whether differences existed in duodenogastric reflux and whether these were related to morphological damage of the gastric mucosa. duodenogastric bile reflux during fasting was evaluated by measuring the concentration of total bile acids (by an enzymatic method) and single bile acids in the gastric juice by high performance liquid chromatography. the damage was evaluated histologically by systematic endoscopic biopsy of the antrum and body of the stomach. there was a statistically significant difference in fasting bile reflux between the three groups (kruskal-wallis test, p less than 0.001), and the group that underwent cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty had a significantly higher median value than the cholecystectomized group (p less than 0.05) and the control group (p less than 0.01). the distribution of chronic antral atrophic and superficial gastritis was different in the three groups (chi 2 test, p less than 0.005). chronic atrophic gastritis was associated with cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty (p less than 0.01), while chronic superficial gastritis was more frequent in cholecystectomized patients. these results suggest that there may be more duodenogastric reflux after cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty than after cholecystectomy alone, and that there may be a correlation between the amount of duodenogastric reflux and the severity of mucosal damage.
a randomized trial of cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin versus vinblastine, cisplatin, and etoposide in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis: a southwest oncology group study this is a southwest oncology group (swog) prospective randomized trial of cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin (pvb) versus vinblastine, cisplatin, and etoposide (vp-16) (vpv) in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis. the study objective was to determine what effect the replacement of bleomycin with vp-16 has on complete response (cr), survival, and drug toxicity. one hundred sixty-nine patients were registered and randomized. of these patients, 160 were assessable for response. all had histologically confirmed disseminated germ cell neoplasms of testicular origin. forty-six had minimal metastatic disease, and 114 had maximal disease. seventy-seven were randomized to pvb and 83 to vpv chemotherapy. there was no significant difference in pretreatment characteristics between the two arms with regard to tumor burden, histologic type, and overall performance status. patients received four courses of induction chemotherapy, either pvb (cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3, vinblastine 12 mg/m2 day 1, bleomycin 15 u/m2 twice per week) or vpv (vinblastine 8 mg/m2 day 1, cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3, vp-16 50 mg/m2 days 2 to 5). chemotherapy was given every 3 weeks. cytoreductive surgery was done postinduction if a chemotherapy cr was not achieved. there was no difference in the percentage of patients achieving a disease-free status between pvb (77%) and vpv (73%). the mean leukocyte nadir was similar for both treatments, but the mean platelet nadir was significantly lower (p = .003) in the vpv arm. all bleomycin-related toxicities (pulmonary, mucositis, skin) were avoided in the vpv arm. we conclude that bleomycin can be replaced in first-line therapy for advanced germ cell tumors without sacrificing efficacy and with the advantage of avoiding unnecessary drug toxicity.
response rates in relapsed wilms' tumor. a need for new effective agents. three hundred eighty-one children with wilms' tumor were treated in the united kingdom children's cancer study group wt1 study (1982 to 1986). seventy-one patients had relapses during or after treatment with surgery and chemotherapy, and radiation therapy, depending on stage and histologic characteristics. forty-nine patients were evaluable for disease response to second-line chemotherapy alone. evaluation of response to chemotherapy was impossible in the remaining patients because either surgery or radiation therapy was used at the time of relapse. with second-line combination chemotherapy (which included ifosfamide, etoposide/vm26, cisplatin/carboplatin, bleomycin, melphalan, and thiotepa [lederle laboratories, pearl river, ny]), there were five complete responses and 12 partial responses. in patients with favorable histologic findings, six of nine with stage i, five of ten with stage ii, none of 11 with stage iii, three of 16 with stage iv, and one of five with stage v disease survived. two survivors were treated with chemotherapy alone; the others received combined treatment with chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and/or surgery. for those with unfavorable histologic findings of any stage, only two of 20 survived. the authors conclude that, even for patients with localized disease with favorable histologic findings, the "salvage" rate is little more than 50%, and for all other stages and histologic findings the likelihood of cure after relapse is remote. there is clearly a need for additional effective chemotherapeutic agents for these patients.
portal venous gas in a patient with crohn's disease. portal venous gas usually occurs in the setting of an acute abdomen. several causes for benign portal venous gas (pvg) have been reported. we describe the finding of pvg by computed tomography in a febrile patient with crohn's disease and discuss the clinical implications of such a finding.
treatment of cervical spondylotic myelopathy by enlargement of the spinal canal anteriorly, followed by arthrodesis. thirty-seven patients who had enlargement of the spinal canal anteriorly and stabilization of the spine for cervical spondylotic myelopathy were followed for an average of forty-nine months (range, twenty-eight to seventy months). myelography and computed tomographic myelography were performed preoperatively on all patients to determine the location and features of the areas of decompression. the canal was enlarged by discectomy; by subtotal corpectomy and removal of the anteromedial parts of the pedicles; or by removal of osteophytes or of the posterior longitudinal ligament, or both. partial corpectomy and interbody arthrodesis was performed in nine patients; subtotal corpectomy, including removal of the posterior parts of the vertebral bodies and of the posterior longitudinal ligament, and strut bone-grafting, in fifteen patients; and subtotal corpectomy, with detachment of the remaining thin posterior parts of the vertebral bodies and of the posterior longitudinal ligament, and strut bone-grafting, in thirteen patients. postoperatively, radiographic examinations, including myelography and computed tomographic myelography, were performed for thirty-six patients and magnetic resonance imaging, for twenty-eight. a satisfactory neurological result was obtained in twenty-nine patients. atrophy of the spinal cord, as seen on preoperative computed-tomographic myelograms, was predictive of an unsatisfactory result of the decompression, as was weakness of the peroneal muscles. all but one of the thirty-seven patients had improved walking ability at the most recent follow-up examination: seventeen patients improved by 1 point; fourteen, by 2 points; four, by 3 points; and one, by 4 points. the remaining patient reverted to the preoperative status after an initial improvement. the ability to walk at the interim examinations was compared with that at the most recent examination; three patients had continuing improvement, while three others had deterioration. the main cause of deterioration was new spondylotic changes associated with stenosis of the spinal canal, occurring at the level of the disc just cephalad to the fused levels. we concluded that anterior decompression followed by a secure arthrodesis should be an extensive procedure for patients who have cervical spondylotic myelopathy, as determined preoperatively from a myelogram or computed tomographic myelogram. excision of the vertebral bodies should also be wide and should include the anteromedial parts of the pedicles. the third or fourth cervical vertebra should be included in the arthrodesis prophylactically in patients who have stenosis of the spinal canal when either of these vertebrae is adjacent to the level of fusion.
cup containment and orientation in cemented total hip arthroplasties. we reviewed the radiographs of 864 charnley and sth (zimmer) cemented total hip arthroplasties with a mean follow-up of seven years (maximum 16 years). survivorship analysis was used to assess the correlation between radiographic performance and the bony containment or the coronal orientation of the acetabular cup. the cup orientation and containment were interrelated; all vertically oriented cups were completely contained, whereas 25% of more horizontal cups were only partially contained. completely contained cups had significantly lower incidences of complete cement-bone radiolucency (p = 0.02) and of wear (p = 0.09). vertically oriented cups had a lower incidence of continuous radiolucency than neutrally oriented cups, but this was not statistically significant (p = 0.25). our results confirm the importance of complete bony containment, and also indicate that it is better to accept vertical orientation and obtain full bony coverage than to have a more horizontal orientation with partial containment.
evidence of a local immune activation in cystic brain tumors. the fluid of cystic brain tumors was characterized with regard to the protein content. in most malignant tumors, the concentrations of immunoglobulins g and m (igg and igm) were higher relative to other proteins in the cyst fluid than in the serum of the same patient. a markedly elevated ratio of monomeric to pentameric igm was detected in the cyst fluid of two patients with glioblastomas. the results indicate a local immunoglobulin synthesis in malignant cystic brain tumors. it is hypothesized that higher-than-expected concentrations of igg and igm in cyst fluid as compared to plasma are a sign of an ongoing immune response triggered by the tumor.
epithelial cyst of the fourth ventricle. case report. a case of epithelial cyst in the fourth ventricle of a 4-year-old child is described. a single epithelial layer with a clear basement membrane lining the cyst wall was observed. there were no prominent histological findings to suggest a pathogenesis for this cyst based on immunohistochemical or ultrastructural studies; however, the cyst fluid contained significant amounts of carcinoembryonic antigen. it is considered that the epithelial layer lining the cyst wall was possibly of endodermal origin.
caffeine and ventricular arrhythmias. an electrophysiological approach. little information is known regarding caffeine's effect on the substrate supporting sustained ventricular arrhythmias. this prospective study evaluated the effect of coffee (275 mg of caffeine) on this substrate with programmed ventricular stimulation in 22 patients with a history of symptomatic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia, or ventricular fibrillation. patients underwent electrophysiological testing before and 1 hour after coffee ingestion. mean (+/- sem) plasma caffeine level achieved after coffee consumption was 6.2 +/- 0.5 mg/l. mean plasma catecholamine and potassium values were not altered significantly 1 hour following caffeine ingestion. the number of extrastimuli required to induce an arrhythmia was unchanged in 10 patients (46%), increased in six (27%), and decreased in six (27%). rhythm severity was unchanged in 17 patients (77%), more severe in two (9%), and less severe in three (14%). in those patients with clinical ventricular arrhythmias, caffeine did not significantly alter inducibility or severity of arrhythmias, suggesting little effect on the substrate supporting ventricular arrhythmias.
von willebrand factor in head and neck cancer. laboratory abnormalities in blood coagulation factors are common in patients with cancer but the significance is unknown. twenty-eight patients with head and neck cancer were studied at the time of diagnosis. twenty-five were advanced-stage (iii or iv) patients. levels of clotting factors, antithrombin iii, and plasminogen were normal. levels of von willebrand factor (vwf), both antigenic and functional (ristocetin cofactor), were elevated. this group of patients were followed for a minimum of 41 months (median, 48 months). fifteen patients died within the follow-up period. von willebrand factor levels were significantly higher in these 15 than the 13 survivors. extreme elevation of ristocetin cofactor (greater than 300 u/dl) was seen in six of the 15 patients who died and in none of the survivors. plasma vwf is elevated in head and neck cancer and the level measured at the time of diagnosis may have prognostic and potentially therapeutic implications.
neurological phenomena during emergence from enflurane or isoflurane anaesthesia. during emergence from anaesthesia, transient neurological signs that would usually be considered pathological may appear. the objective of this randomized, patient (n = 30) and observer-blinded study was to compare prospectively the incidence and duration of post-anaesthetic neurological abnormalities in healthy patients undergoing minor elective procedures following thiopentone and succinylcholine induction, and enflurane-n2o or isoflurane-n2o anaesthesia. patients were studied for 60 min after anaesthesia. arousal state, muscle tone, deep tendon reflexes, plantar reflex, sustained clonus, shivering, intense muscular spasticity and temperature were assessed. results of neurological examination were correlated with the patient's state of arousal. transient emergent neurological abnormalities occurred more frequently following enflurane-n2o anaesthesia than isoflurane n2o anaesthesia. this was statistically significant (p less than 0.05) for quadriceps hyperreflexia, upgoing toes (positive babinski reflex) and intense muscular spasticity. neurological abnormalities occurred most commonly 5-20 min after anaesthesia and all abnormalities resolved within 60 min. following enflurane anaesthesia, as patients became more alert the incidence of abnormalities declined, while the arousal state did not affect the incidence of abnormalities after isoflurane. there was no significant difference between axillary temperatures of those patients who shivered and those who did not. in conclusion, temporary emergent neurological abnormalities occurred more often following enflurane-n2o than after isoflurane-n2o anaesthesia.
vagal schwannoma. a patient with a benign encapsulated intrathoracic vagal schwannoma is presented and the literature is reviewed. the right paratracheal tumor was identified incidentally on a chest film and excised using a right thoracotomy. although rare, vagal schwannomas should be considered for any mediastinal mass along the vagus nerves especially when the paratracheal tumor produces minimal or no respiratory symptoms suggesting a slow-growing, encapsulated process.
leucine kinetics in patients with benign disease, non-weight-losing cancer, and cancer cachexia: studies at the whole-body and tissue level and the response to nutritional support. we have performed intraoperative isotopic infusions of carbon 14-labeled leucine in 65 patients to define the abnormalities in protein metabolism at both the whole-body and tissue level in patients with weight-losing and non-weight-losing cancer. eighteen patients had benign disease, 26 had non-weight-losing cancer, and 21 had cancer cachexia. samples of plasma and expired breath were taken to determine rates of whole-body protein synthesis (wbps), whole-body protein catabolism (wbpc), net protein catabolism, and albumin fractional synthetic rates. tissue samples were taken to determine the fractional synthetic rates (fsr) of protein in muscle, liver, cancer, and the tissue in which the cancer arose. in addition, in 14 patients the effect of nutritional support on protein metabolism was assessed. in all parameters examined we were unable to detect any significant differences between patients with no cancer and the patients with non-weight-losing cancer. in contrast, patients with cancer cachexia had a significant elevation (p less than 0.005) in wbpc compared with the other two groups. wbps was also elevated (to a lesser extent) in the patients with cancer cachexia, and the rate of net protein catabolism was increased significantly (p less than 0.05). patients with cancer cachexia also had significantly higher values of fsr of protein in muscle (p less than 0.05), liver (p less than 0.05), and albumin (p less than 0.01) compared with the other two groups. in addition, the protein fsr in the cancer rose progressively when the values for the primary cancer were compared with those for nodal and systemic metastases. further, although nutritional support resulted in an increase in host muscle protein synthesis (p less than 0.04), there was no promotion of fsr of protein in cancer. we conclude that patients with cancer cachexia are actively losing protein as a result of an increase in wbpc that is only partially compensated for by an increase in wbps. there are compensatory increases in protein synthesis in muscle and liver, but these increases in host protein synthesis are insufficient to keep pace with the combined effect of the accelerated rate of protein synthesis in the cancer per se and the accelerated rate of net protein catabolism at the whole-body level. in response to nutritional support, there is a significant increase in the muscle protein synthesis, but we could not demonstrate any increase in cancer protein synthesis.
diagnostic imaging and surgical treatment of dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum. we describe the diagnostic procedures and surgical approaches employed in 5 patients with dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum. magnetic resonance imaging accurately described the existence and longitudinal extension of the intraspinal component of the tumor and assisted in choosing the appropriate surgical approach. both the intrathoracic and intraspinal components of the tumor were resected at one time by a thoracic and neurosurgical team. we employed the grillo technique three times and a separate laminectomy and thoracotomy approach. magnetic resonance imaging proved the most useful diagnostic technique for suspected dumbbell mediastinal tumors. in our experience, the extended thoracotomy proposed by grillo and co-workers worked well for small tumors involving only one foramen in which the intraspinal extension was limited to 2 to 3 cm, and when no more than two laminectomies were required. on the other hand, thoracotomy and a longitudinal paravertebral incision are preferable for larger tumors (more than 4 cm) involving more than one foramen in which the intraspinal extension exceeds 2 to 3 cm, for tumors requiring multiple laminectomy, and when bony infiltration is present.
long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. a total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of grades i to iii (hunt and hess classification) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography (ct)-visualized infarcts after sah and surgery. the administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made. of the 213 patients enrolled in the study, 58 were operated on early (within 72 hours after the bleed: days 0 to 3), 69 were operated on subacutely (between days 4 and 7), and 74 had late surgery (on day 8 or later). eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on. a follow-up examination with ct scanning, performed 1 to 3 years after the sah (mean 1.4 years), revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups. however, nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia (p = 0.01) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in the whole population (p = 0.05), especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission ct scan (p = 0.03).
the real impact of mechanical bridge strategy in patients with severe acute infarction. results obtained in the past 3 years in patients referred with acute myocardial infarction (ami) and cardiogenic shock for a mechanical bridge to urgent transplantation permit one to assess the real impact of the present strategy in clinical practice. ten patients (mean age = 49) were admitted in serious condition (ci = 1.8 +/- 0.2 l/min/m2, pcwp = 28 +/- 6 mmhg, systolic aortic pressure = 88 +/- 20 mmhg, urine output 11 +/- 20 ml/hr) and were treated by maximal sympathomimetic support and i.v. enoximone. two had to be implanted with a total artificial heart (tah) and one with a left ventricular assist device (lvad) for recurrent fibrillation despite hemodynamic improvement, within 8 hr. two have received transplants and are living well after 20 months. seven who initially improved markedly have been listed as urgent transplant candidates: two of these have been successfully transplanted, and three died suddenly after 6, 25, and 45 days, respectively. one has undergone successful coronary surgery. one patient (age 62, diabetic) was secondarily rejected for a transplant and died. this experience clearly shows that despite initial spectacular hemodynamic improvement, which was due to optimized medical management, death rate before transplant because of sudden ventricular fibrillation remains unacceptably high. this should prompt early mechanical support, with less invasive systems, in patients with ami.
percutaneous angioscopy during coronary angioplasty using a steerable microangioscope. the feasibility of using a flexible, steerable angioscope to perform coronary angioscopy before and after percutaneous coronary angioplasty was tested. the microangioscope fits through an 8f coronary angioplasty guiding catheter and contains a multifiber viewing bundle incorporated into the body of a 4.3f balloon catheter with a central lumen for distal flushing and guide-wire passage. angioscopy was performed without complications 45 times in 24 patients, including 6 patients with stable and 18 with unstable angina. circumferential visualization of the target lesion was successful in 20 (83%) of the 24 patients and improved with operator experience. excellent visualization of the target lesion was achieved in 16 (94%) of the last 17 patients. plaque, thrombus and dissection were among the abnormal findings in the 20 patients (4 with stable, 16 with unstable angina) in whom circumferential viewing of the target lesion was achieved. in four patients with restenosis after angioplasty, the lesion morphology was distinctly different from that of lesions in arteries without prior angioplasty. in patients with stable angina, no thrombus or dissection was seen by angiography or angioscopy before angioplasty. in patients with unstable angina, thrombus was detected more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty (8 versus 2 of 16) and after (15 versus 2 of 16) angioplasty. intimal dissection was also seen much more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty (7 versus 0 of 16) and after angioplasty (16 versus 7 of 16). it is concluded that high resolution percutaneous coronary angioscopy can be performed safely in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. further investigation is needed before this diagnostic tool can be applied clinically.
gamma-detecting probe and autoradiographic studies of radiolabeled antibody b72.3 in cx-1 colon xenografts. nude mice bearing cx-1 colon tumors were injected with 50 microci 125i-labeled monoclonal antibody (mab) b72.3. radioactivity in tumors was studied with the gamma detecting probe (gdp) on days 1, 3, 7, and 10 after mab injection. on each day, two mice were sacrificed and sections were examined with autoradiography (arg), immunoperoxidase methods (imp), and routine stains. mean probe counts showed increasing tumor to background ratios and arg demonstrated a progressive increase in radionuclide in the tumors. the distribution of 125i was primarily around the vascular spaces on day 1, but by day 3 and progressively it appeared in tumor gland lumina and necrotic areas. a regional correlation was shown between radionuclide in vascular spaces and its sequestration in tumor elements.
caffeine and cardiac arrhythmias. purpose: to review the evidence supporting the belief that caffeine causes cardiac arrhythmias. data sources: studies published since 1982 identified through computerized searches of medline, toxline, and chemical abstracts and a review of bibliographies of relevant articles on the subject of caffeine and cardiac arrhythmias. study selection: all clinical studies examining caffeine as a cause of cardiac arrhythmias and a selection of basic science experiments to illustrate caffeine's effects in vitro. data extraction: study quality was assessed and all available clinical data pertaining to caffeine as a cause of arrhythmias were summarized. results of data analysis: in one electrophysiologic study, caffeine was associated with an increased susceptibility to provoked cardiac arrhythmias. in five placebo-controlled trials, caffeine in doses up to 500 mg daily (equivalent to 5 to 6 cups of coffee) did not increase the frequency or severity of ventricular arrhythmias. one large epidemiologic study reported an increase in the frequency of ventricular extrasystoles in persons consuming 9 or more cups of coffee daily. conclusion: moderate ingestion of caffeine does not increase the frequency or severity of cardiac arrhythmias in normal persons, patients with ischemic heart disease, or those with pre-existing serious ventricular ectopy.
muscle fibre type and habitual snoring. although anatomical abnormalities of the upper airway have been recorded in some patients with obstructive sleep apnoea (osa), a muscle tone dysregulation also seems to have an important role in this disorder. since habitual snoring is the initial stage of osa, the structural characteristics of upper airway muscles (medium pharyngeal constrictor muscle [mpcm]) from 13 men (9 non-snorers and 4 habitual snorers) were studied. mpcm fibre structure in non-snorers was broadly similar to that in normal limb muscles, with the exception that fibre diameters were smaller for all fibre types. compared with limb muscles, mpcm had a smaller proportion of type iib fibres and a higher proportion of types i and iia fibres. mpcm in habitual snorers had an abnormal distribution of fibre types (low percentage of type i and type iib fibres and high percentage of type iia fibres) compared with non-snorers (p less than 0.001) and the type iia fibres were hypertrophic. no myopathic or neurogenic changes were seen. two possible hypotheses explain the abnormal distribution of fibre types in snorers. first, a constitutionally determined reduction of slow alpha-motor neurons induces an adaptive transformation of type iib to type iia fibres and a hypertrophy of type iia fibres; or, second, motor neurons change their patterns of discharge and, hence, of activation, and modify fibre-type distribution of mpcm as an adaptation to the anatomical characteristic of upper airway and habitual snoring.
glomerular hyperfiltration indicates early target organ damage in essential hypertension in 111 patients with essential hypertension (world health organization stage i or ii), we examined the relationship between renal hemodynamics and left ventricular hypertrophy. left ventricular structure was determined by two-dimensional guided m-mode echocardiography, renal blood flow by iodine i 131 aminohippuric acid clearance, and glomerular filtration rate by creatinine clearance. the glomerular filtration rate correlated with left ventricular mass (r = .52) and left ventricular cross-sectional area (r = .21). conversely, at a similar age, body mass index, body surface area, and arterial pressure, hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy disclosed a higher glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction than those without left ventricular hypertrophy, whereas renal blood flow and renal vascular resistance measurements were not significantly different. thus, at similar levels of arterial pressure and renal blood flow, glomerular hyperfiltration was linked to early cardiac structural changes in essential hypertension. we conclude that, in a hypertensive patient with normal renal function, a high glomerular filtration rate may be an indicator for early target organ damage in essential hypertension.
a controlled trial of beclomethasone versus betamethasone enemas in distal ulcerative colitis. steroid enemas are widely used in distal inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). they are partly absorbed and suppress adrenocortical function. beclomethasone dipropionate (bd) is a topically active steroid that undergoes rapid first-pass inactivation in the liver and is practically devoid of systemic side effects. we treated 32 consecutive patients with active distal ulcerative colitis (40 attacks) with 0.5 mg bd and/or 5 mg betamethasone phosphate (bp) enemas for 28 days. clinical, laboratory, sigmoidoscopic, and histologic data were recorded before, during, and after the trial. the clinical efficacy of both treatments was similar. betamethasone was slightly more effective in relation to the histologic improvement and disappearance of blood from the stools. clinical signs of steroid overdosage were noted in patients on bp but not in patients on bd. mean fasting plasma cortisol at the end of the trial was 2.9 micrograms/dl in the bp group and 15.3 micrograms/dl in the bd group. the adrenocorticotropin test was markedly suppressed in the bp group but not in the bd group. the absence of systemic steroid side effects makes bd enemas a useful addition in the therapy of ibd. its oral administration should also be considered.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan: muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients. muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas. there was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients. in the 2 sickest patients, there was profound muscle atrophy, affecting both muscle fiber types.
acute urinary retention in a child with appendiceal abscess: diagnostic dilemma. rarely do children with appendiceal abscess present with acute urinary retention as the only sign or symptom. this presentation may delay diagnosis and definitive therapy, thereby causing additional morbidity and possible mortality. we report the eighth case of acute urinary retention in a child associated with an appendiceal abscess.
secondary damage to the knee after isolated injury of the anterior cruciate ligament. between 1978 and 1984, we examined and performed arthroscopy on 1000 consecutive patients. ninety-eight of the 1000 had isolated acl damage. these cases do not include patients with initial acl injuries combined with other intraarticular damage. diagnosis was by physical and arthroscopic examination. examination took place an average 13.6 months after injury. of the 98 isolated acl injuries, 56 were complete ruptures and 42 were partial ruptures. in most cases of partial rupture, the clinical diagnosis was wrong. "meniscal damage" was the usual diagnosis in these cases; the true diagnosis was made only by arthroscopic examination. thirty-four of the 98 patients with isolated acl injuries (30 men and 4 women) developed further intraarticular damage. of these 34, 20 had complete acl rupture and 14 had partial acl rupture. treatment after primary injury included physiotherapy in all patients and bracing in those whose knee was unstable during daily activities. reconstructive surgical procedures were not performed in those patients. the time lapse from the primary to the secondary injury varied from 1 month to 20 years, with an average of 28 months. the secondary damage was caused by a secondary injury that was mild (22 cases) or developed insidiously (12 cases). five types of secondary damage were observed: partial acl tears that became complete--11 cases; meniscal tear--8 cases; loosening and subluxation of the anterior horn of the medial meniscus--14 cases; and fracture or damage to the articular condylar cartilage, with or without bone involvement--11 cases. it should be emphasized that the secondary damages were at times combined.
further evaluation of radical surgery following radiotherapy for advanced parotid carcinoma. a series of 30 patients who have been treated for advanced carcinoma of the parotid gland using radiotherapy followed by radical surgery is presented. three patients deteriorated during preoperative radiotherapy and remained unfit for surgery; the remaining 27 underwent radical parotidectomy with block dissection of the neck. twelve patients received additional radiotherapy after operation. of those patients undergoing surgery, three have been lost to follow-up, 17 have died and seven remain alive; the period of follow-up ranges from 3 to 133 months. fourteen patients remained free of recurrent disease at death or when last seen, and six patients developed a local recurrence at a medium period of 10.5 (range 3-36) months after surgery. for all 30 patients, the cumulative proportion surviving for 5 years was 30 per cent.
percutaneous balloon dilatation of benign biliary strictures. percutaneous biliary dilatation is an effective alternative to surgical management of benign biliary strictures that has low morbidity and no reported mortality. reported success rates for this procedure range from 40% to 90% depending on the size of the series, the type of patient being treated, and the length of follow-up period. the procedure is done in the fluoroscopy suite with an angioplasty balloon catheter. transhepatic access is most common, but the procedure may be done via existing t-tube tracts or specially created jejunal loops. as the frequency of radical liver surgery such as liver transplant and radical trisegmentectomy rises, so too, the rate of biliary stricture is likely to rise, making percutaneous balloon dilatation an increasingly important tool in the interventional radiologist's armamentarium.
possible triggering of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in normal hearts by psychological stressors: a report of two cases. paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was triggered by psychological stress in two patients, both of whom had normal echocardiograms and coronary angiography. neither patient was alcoholic or had ingested ethanol in relation to the onset of atrial fibrillation and both were free of metabolic derangements. possible mechanisms involved in the triggering of atrial fibrillation are discussed.
mechanical sutures in perforation of the thoracic esophagus as a safe procedure in patients seen late. between 1976 and 1988, we treated 13 perforations of the thoracic esophagus, excluding ruptured carcinoma and intraoperative wounds, by mechanical sutures without exclusion. the delay between perforation and treatment ranged from eight to 168 hours, more than 24 hours in 11. the length of perforation was 0.5 to 15.0 centimeters. suture was covered with a flap in ten instances; an antireflux procedure was associated with five instances. no digestive ostomies were performed. there was one death; a patient who was comatose upon arrival. the results of this small series suggest that myotomy exposing the mucosa and a flap are two essential elements of the technique; perforations of less than 6 centimeters, even when seen late, may be treated by primary surgical closure.
computed tomography in the assessment of the postenucleation socket syndrome. to gain a deeper insight into the cause of the postenucleation socket syndrome, high-resolution computed tomography (ct) was performed in 22 anophthalmic patients before insertion of an intraorbital implant. the anatomy of the normal and the anophthalmic orbits was compared. computed tomographic scans were made either in the sagittal and the coronal plane or in the sagittal and transverse plane. the authors discovered a sagging and retraction of the superior muscle complex and a downward and forward redistribution of orbital fat. finally, an upward displacement of the distal end together with a retraction of the inferior rectus muscle was found. these phenomena were measured and appear to cause a rotatory displacement of orbital contents from superior to posterior and from posterior to inferior which is best demonstrated in the sagittal plane. this redistribution of orbital contents can explain the sequelae of the anophthalmic orbit. no signs of orbital fat atrophy could be demonstrated. with this knowledge, the proper treatment of patients with a postenucleation socket syndrome is ascertained.
continuous papaveretum infusion for the control of pain in painful sickling crisis. we describe our experience of using continuous papaveretum infusions to control pain in 24 children admitted on 45 occasions with painful sickling crisis. the children were aged from 1.7 to 14.3 years. infusion duration ranged from one to nine days (median three days), total dose from 0.3 to 21 mg/kg (median 2.4 mg/kg), with a pronounced tendency for dosage to increase with increasing age. no respiratory depression was observed. one infusion was discontinued because of cerebral toxicity.
valvular and coronary surgery in renal transplant patients. the authors report aortic valvular replacement (avr) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (cabg) successfully performed in two renal transplant patients. the postoperative blood urea and creatinine levels were comparable to the preoperative values. the first patient underwent isolated avr. the second patient had an initial avr combined with cabg followed two years later by a further avr for prosthetic dysfunction. for many reasons, coronary artery (cad) and valvular diseases are not uncommon in renal transplant patients. cardiac surgery is feasible without impairment of the renal function provided some precautions are taken, ie good mean perfusion pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb), adequate volume replacement, and selected use of mannitol and dopamine.
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors: a possible late effect of therapy. three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor. radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma, gliosis, and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two. no tumor was found. all 3 patients remain in long-term (greater than 10 years) continuous remission.
adult and pediatric peritonitis rates in a home dialysis program: comparison of continuous ambulatory and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis. we reviewed our 115-month experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (ccpd) in adult and pediatric patients to determine whether there is a difference in the incidence of peritonitis between patients performing capd or ccpd. peritonitis rates were similar in patients performing capd or ccpd in both the adult and pediatric age groups. the overall capd peritonitis rate was significantly lower in adult patients when compared with pediatric patients. there was no difference in peritonitis rates for ccpd between adult and pediatric patients. when the data are divided into 3-year subgroups, the incidence of peritonitis is significantly lower in adult patients undergoing either capd or ccpd when compared with pediatric patients during the years 1986 to 1988. there is significant improvement over time in the incidence of peritonitis in both adult and pediatric patients performing ccpd; similarly, there is a trend toward improvement in patients performing capd. staphylococcus species organisms remain the most common bacterial cause of peritonitis, except in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years or with nephrostomies, where gram-negative rod infections were more common. peritonitis resulted in discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in a greater number of adult patients. these results suggest that the number of catheter manipulations is not important in determining the incidence of peritonitis. pediatric patients are more likely than adult patients to develop peritonitis with either capd or ccpd. adult patients are more likely than pediatric patients to discontinue peritoneal dialysis secondary to peritonitis.
family history fails to identify many children with severe hypercholesterolemia. optimal strategies for identifying children with hypercholesterolemia have not been established. several groups have advocated that testing of serum cholesterol levels be limited to those children who have family histories of hyperlipidemia or premature coronary heart disease. we studied the ability of comprehensive family histories to identify children with hyperlipidemia in a group of 114 children (mean age, 8 +/- 4 years) who were referred for treatment of hypercholesterolemia. a positive family history was defined according to guidelines of the american academy of pediatrics. the mean fasting total cholesterol in the children was 5.74 +/- 1.42 mmol/l (222 mg/dl). family history was negative for hypercholesterolemia or premature coronary heart disease in 22 (22%) of 100 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 75th percentile for their ages, in 13 (18.3%) of 71 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 95th percentile for their ages, and in four (11.8%) of 34 children with presumed heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. of the 78 children who had both hypercholesterolemia and positive family histories, hyperlipidemia was reported in 72 families, whereas premature heart disease was reported in only 27. we conclude that in a population of children referred because of known hypercholesterolemia, a detailed family history not only fails to identify many children with mild hypercholesterolemia, but also fails to identify a significant proportion of children with markedly elevated cholesterol levels. additionally, in families of children with hypercholesterolemia, a history of hyperlipidemia is more common than a history of premature heart disease.
retroviral transduction of protein kinase c-gamma into cytotoxic t lymphocyte clones leads to immortalization with retention of specific function. the molecular pathways that are responsible for delivering the proliferative signals from the cell surface to the nucleus in t lymphocytes are still unresolved, but recent data implicates protein kinase c (pkc) involvement in the tcr signaling pathway. to further address the role of pkc in t cell activation, the effects of high level expression of the pkc-gamma isoenzyme in murine ctl clones were examined. unlike the parental cells that required periodic ag stimulation for cell activation and growth, cells expressing a retrovirally transduced pkc-gamma gene propagated in culture independent of the need for ag stimulation, although maintaining identical functional specificity to the parental ctl. constitutive pkc-gamma expression may therefore mimic physiologic pkc activation, thereby abrogating the requirement for tcr-ag interaction in t cell activation.
synergistic effects of interceed(tc7) and heparin in reducing adhesion formation in the rabbit uterine horn model. surgical adjuvants are commonly employed to reduce the frequency of postoperative adhesion development after reproductive pelvic surgery. the ability of indomethacin, promethazine dexamethasone, intralipid, progesterone, and heparin to reduce adhesion formation in combination with interceed(tc7) (johnson and johnson medical, inc., new brunswick, nj), an absorbable barrier that alone reduces adhesion formation, was examined in a rabbit uterine horn model. a significant reduction in adhesion formation was only observed with the combination of interceed(tc7) plus heparin. in addition studies, heparin delivery by intraperitoneal (ip) lavage, intravenous injection, or intra-abdominal instillation failed to demonstrate efficacy. similarly, heparin delivery with other barriers or ip instillates (carboxymethylcellulose or 32% dextran 70) failed to reduce adhesion formation. we conclude that interceed(tc7) can be efficaciously utilized as a carrier to deliver heparin to traumatized surfaces, thereby reducing adhesion formation.
marker profile of different phases in the transition of normal human ovarian epithelium to ovarian carcinomas. to investigate whether early changes in the transformation of normal ovarian epithelial cells into tumor cells can be detected with monoclonal antibodies, a comparative immunohistochemical study was performed on normal human ovarian mesothelial cells, cystomas, cystadenomas, ovarian carcinomas, as well as granulosa cell tumor. using monoclonal antibodies against different keratin subtypes, it was shown that mesothelial cells, ovarian cysts, cystadenomas, and carcinomas all reacted positively with broad-spectrum anti-keratin monoclonal antibodies (mabs), as well as with mabs to keratins 7, 8, 18, and 19. keratins 4 and 13 were not found in mesothelial cells, but positive groups of cells were identified in several cystomas, adenomas, and carcinomas. while mesothelial cells did not react with the pan-epithelial marker bw495/36, invaginating metaplastic mesothelial cells, inclusion cysts, cystomas, adenomas, and carcinomas showed an increasing reactivity with bw495/36, with an increasing degree of malignancy. the reactivity of mabs against ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens (ov-tl 3, oc 125, mov 18, and ov-tl 10) was limited to weak staining reaction in some mesothelial cells but were found to be positive on more than 50% of the ovarian cystadenomas and more than 90% of the ovarian carcinomas. thecal and granulosa cells of primordial, primary, and secondary follicles all reacted positively with antibodies to the broad-spectrum keratins ov-tl 12/5 and rck 102, and to keratins 8 and 18, but not with keratins 4, 7, 13, and 19. these keratins decreased or disappeared in granulosa cells of mature follicles (graafian follicles), whereas granulosa cell tumors did not react with anti-keratin antibodies. the reactivity of bw 495/36 was negative or limited to traces in some granulosa cells. ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens were not expressed in granulosa cells or granulosa cell tumors. the data indicate that mesothelial cells undergoing metaplastic changes finally resulting in ovarian cystadenomas (and carcinomas) initiate the synthesis of a 200-kd glycoprotein recognized by mab (bw 495/36), the production of ovarian carcinoma associated antigens, in addition to focal production of keratin 4 and/or 13, as seen in several samples. the granulosa cell tumors decrease or switch off their keratin production and remain negative for the 200-kd glycoprotein and the ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens.
screening of nineteen unrelated families with generalized resistance to thyroid hormone for known point mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor beta gene and the detection of a new mutation. generalized resistance to thyroid hormone (grth) is a syndrome characterized by impaired tissue responsiveness to thyroid hormone. two distinct point mutations in the hormone binding domain of the thyroid hormone receptor (tr) beta have recently been identified in two unrelated families with grth. one, mf, involves a replacement of the normal glycine-345 for arginine in exon 7 and another, mh, replaces the normal proline-453 for histidine in exon 8. to probe for the presence of the mf and mh defect in 19 unrelated families with grth, we applied separate polymerase chain reactions using allele-specific oligonucleotide primers containing the normal and each of the two mutant nucleotides at the 3'-position. a total of 24 affected subjects and 13 normal family members were studied. the mode of inheritance was dominant in 13 families, was unknown in 5 families, and was clearly recessive in 1 family in which only the consanguineous subjects were affected. primers containing the substitutions specific for mf and mh amplified exons 7 and 8, respectively, only in affected members of each of the two index families. primers containing the normal sequences amplified exons 7 and 8 of the tr beta gene in all subjects except affected members of one family. in this family with recessively inherited grth, neither exon could be amplified using any combinations of primers and dna blot revealed absence of all coding exons. these results indicate a major deletion of the tr beta gene, including both dna and hormone binding domains. since heterozygous members of this family are not affected, the presence of a single normal allele is sufficient for normal function of the tr beta. these data also support the hypothesis that in the dominant mode of grth inheritance the presence of an abnormal tr beta interferes with the function of the normal tr beta. distinct mutations are probably responsible for grth in unrelated families.
detection of epstein-barr virus dna in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of nasopharyngeal carcinoma using polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. the polymerase chain reaction method for amplification of dna in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections was used to detect epstein-barr virus dna in nasopharyngeal carcinomas from japanese patients. thirty-one cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and 8 cases of lymph node metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma were studied. detection rates of epstein-barr virus in various types of nasopharyngeal carcinoma according to the world health organization classification were as follows: 10 of 10 undifferentiated carcinomas, 8 of 13 nonkeratinizing carcinomas, and 5 of 7 keratinizing carcinomas. eight lymph node metastases, for which the primary was positive for epstein-barr virus, also contained epstein-barr virus dna. by in situ hybridization using a biotinylated epstein-barr virus probe, it was clearly demonstrated that epstein-barr virus dna was localized in the nuclei of the neoplastic cells. the clinical features of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with or without epstein-barr virus were not different. these results demonstrate that nasopharyngeal carcinoma in japanese patients is closely associated with epstein-barr virus infection, similar to nasopharyngeal carcinoma of other endemic and nonendemic areas.
spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma: a review of 172 japanese cases. the spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) accounts for 10% mortality of hcc patients in japan. because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries, it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a hcc. in an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment, we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a hcc reported in the japanese literature. the chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain. abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86% of the patients. liver failure was the cause of death in 42% of the patients. therefore, it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly. in addition, emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock. although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12% of the cases, these had the highest survival rates. consequently, this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a hcc.
dentofacial development in long-term survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. a comparison of three treatment modalities. ninety-seven children who were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia before 10 years of age and treated with chemotherapy alone, chemotherapy plus 1800-cgy cranial irradiation (rt), or chemotherapy plus 2400-cgy rt were evaluated for effects of therapy on dentofacial development. all patients were seen at least 5 years postdiagnosis. dental abnormalities were determined from panoramic radiographs, and craniofacial evaluations were made from lateral cephalometric radiographs. ninety-one (94%) of all patients and 41 (100%) of patients younger than 5 years of age at diagnosis had abnormal dental development. the severity of these abnormalities was greater in children who received treatment before 5 years of age and in those who received rt. observed dental abnormalities included tooth agenesis, arrested root development, microdontia, and enamel dysplasias. craniofacial abnormalities occurred in 18 of 20 (90%) of those patients who received chemotherapy plus 2400-cgy rt before 5 years of age. mean cephalometric values of this group showed significant deficient mandibular development. the results of this study suggest that the severity of dentofacial-developmental abnormalities secondary to antileukemia therapy are related to the age of the patient at the initiation of treatment and the use of cranial rt.
vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion. the condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central retinal vein occlusion (crvo). using a life-table analysis, it was studied in 56 eyes. the incidence of posterior vitreous detachment (pvd) in the crvo eyes at the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 age-matched control eyes. however, the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes increased from 39.3% at the first vitreous examination to 58.5% after 6 months, and to 69.6% 1 year from the examination. the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes during follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls (p = .009). the incidence of pvd after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy (p = .04). in the 34 eyes with macular edema, the edema lasted significantly longer in those with vitreomacular attachment (vma) at the first examination than in those without vma at this time (p = .02). vma may play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in crvo.
rotavirus-specific antibody response in saliva of infants with rotavirus diarrhea. the reliability of saliva as an indicator of rotavirus infection was assessed among 15 infants (3-12 months) with rotaviral and 15 with nonrotaviral diarrhea. paired salivary samples collected during acute and convalescent phases were tested for rotavirus-specific iga and igm by an elisa. the sensitivity of iga or igm alone to predict infection was 53.3% and 46.6%, respectively; used in conjunction, the sensitivity rose to 80%. it seems that infants with rotaviral diarrhea mount mucosal antibody responses as reflected in their saliva; possibly salivary antibodies could be used to evaluate vaccine "take" in rotavirus vaccine trials.
therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine. we investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months. after stroke had occurred, the rats were divided into three groups: 1) parathyroidectomy, 2) nimodipine, and 3) controls. in the nimodipine group, the rats survived longer than those in the other groups. blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals. the increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity, urea, and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy. the histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats. in the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups, healing of the lesions was detectable. cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis. nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions. in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate. the cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated, and morphologic signs of healing were observed. reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy, even in an advanced stage of disease, had a therapeutic effect.
standard v lightweight wheelchair propulsion in spinal cord injured patients. twenty-six male sci subjects (six quadriplegics, eight "high paraplegics," and 12 "low paraplegics") propelled both standard and lightweight wheelchairs at a "sprint pace" (sp) for 400 feet, and at a "duration pace" (du) for four continuous minutes. pulse, blood pressure and respirations were measured before and after each trial, and v was calculated. appropriate training and rest periods were given; order of wheelchair testing was randomized. a questionnaire was later administered. variations in pulse, systolic blood pressure, and respirations were significant between myelopathic levels (p less than 0.01), but were not affected by the type of wheelchair used. quadriplegic v was less (p less than 0.01) than that of either paraplegic group for sp and du trials; for sp, lightweight wheelchair v is faster (p less than 0.01) than standard wheelchair v for all groups.
methotrexate therapy for persistent ectopic pregnancy after conservative laparoscopic management. persistent ectopic pregnancy is a recognized complication of conservative laparoscopic surgery. three such cases were treated successfully with methotrexate and citrovorum factor rescue. all three patients experienced mild lower abdominal pain for a maximum of 36 hours; no other adverse effects were noted. more experience with this therapy will be necessary before subsequent fertility rates can be determined.
gentamicin iontophoresis in the treatment of bacterial otitis externa in the guinea pig model. pseudomonas otitis externa is one of the most common infections treated by otolaryngologists. infections induced in 30 guinea pigs appeared similar to that seen in humans. the ears were then placed into four treatment groups: group a, which received a single cleaning; group b, which received a single cleaning followed by gentamicin drops 4 times daily; group c, which received a single cleaning followed by a single gentamicin iontophoresis treatment; and group d, the control group, which received no treatment. infections were analyzed by grading edema, purulence, and erythema. an average of 10.2 days was required for control group to return to normal appearance. groups a, b, and c had mean resolution times of 5.9, 4.7, and 4.3 days, respectively. gentamicin iontophoresis appears to be promising, with results as good as drop therapy in otitis externa in the guinea pig model.
granular cell tumors of the vulva. granular cell tumor (gct), although nearly ubiquitous, is seen infrequently in the vulva. a review of the surgical pathology files from grady memorial hospital, atlanta, georgia, from 1983 through 1987 identified eight cases of vulvar gct. five of the eight patients had more than one skin and soft tissue lesion. two of the five had biopsy-proven multicentric gct with a unique clinical course. one of the patients was a 32-year-old woman with multiple vulvar, lingual, laryngeal, bronchial and pulmonary gct, necessitating multiple excisions and ultimately pneumonectomy. the second patient had multiple gcts in the vulva and inguinal area and finally in both lungs, resulting in her death at age 39. no dependable microscopic features could be identified to distinguish benign gct from its more aggressive variant. however, feulgen dna histomorphometry demonstrated aneuploidy in the patient with apparent lung metastases, whereas the tumors from patients with a benign course as well as from the patient with multiorgan involvement were diploid. in three of five patients who could be interviewed there was a history of soft tissue tumors in members of the family. the multifocal nature and possible familial component of gct need to be explored further.
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in young patients. an international survey identified 40 patients less than 20 years old who underwent surgical implantation of an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (aicd). there was a history of aborted sudden cardiac death or sustained ventricular tachycardia in 92.5% of these patients. twenty-two patients (55%) had structural heart disease; dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were the most common diagnoses. eighteen patients (45%) had primary electrical abnormalities including seven with the congenital long qt syndrome. there were no perioperative deaths associated with device implantation. concomitant drug therapy was administered to 75% of the patients. defibrillator discharge occurred in 70% of the patients, with 17 patients (42.5%) receiving at least one appropriate shock. there were two sudden and two nonsudden deaths at 28.2 months' median follow-up. sudden death-free survival rates by life table analysis at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.88, respectively. total survival rates at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.82, respectively. the aicd represents an effective treatment approach for young patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
clear cell adenocarcinoma of the lower genital tract. correlation of mother's recall of diethylstilbestrol history with obstetrical records. the written obstetric records of maternal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (des) were used as a criterion standard and compared with the des exposure history recalled by mothers of women with vaginal, cervical, or indeterminable vaginal/exocervical clear cell adenocarcinoma. among cervical cases, the sensitivity of maternal recall was 50% (n = 2), and its specificity was 100%. among vaginal and vaginal/exocervical cases, this sensitivity was 72%; specificity was 60%; and the majority of these mothers who said they did not take des were des positive by written records. thus investigators should avoid using maternal recall alone to measure des exposure. among subjects for whom written maternal obstetric records were available, 88% of vaginal cases and 46% of cervical cases were des positive. the authors conclude that few cases of vaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma should occur in young women as the cohort of women exposed in utero to des continues to age, whereas cases of cervical origin may continue to occur.
a self-assembling protein kinase c inhibitor. previous studies have described a dicationic anticarcinoma agent that can chemically assemble in situ from monocationic phosphonium salts. the chemical combination of these monocationic precursors in the micromolar concentration range, occurring after their uptake by cells, was probably responsible for their synergistic inhibition of cell growth and for their selective cytotoxicity to ehrlich ascites murine carcinoma cells relative to untransformed epithelial cells. here, we report that the dicationic product that forms in this assembly reaction is an in vitro inhibitor of protein kinase c (pkc) alpha and beta 1 isoforms, exhibiting ic50 values of 20.4 microm and 35 microm, respectively. the monocationic precursors proved to be much weaker inhibitors of pkc (ic50 values greater than 200 microm). when pkc is exposed to combinations of the two precursors, the enzymatic activity decreases steadily as a function of time. using dose-response data and hplc kinetic studies, we show that when the two precursor compounds are added as a combination to pkc under these conditions, the rate of formation of the inhibitory product follows the observed time course of decline in pkc activity under identical conditions. we discuss the possibility that antiproliferative effects against carcinoma cells of the preformed dication and of the combined monocationic precursors involve inhibition of pkc.
lymphoproliferative disorders associated with carbamazepine. carbamazepine-induced lymphoproliferative disorders are relatively rare. a 32-year-old woman developed cervical lymphadenopathy while taking carbamazepine. histologic evaluation of the lymph node biopsy specimen demonstrated near-total effacement of the nodal architecture by a population of pleomorphic immunoblasts. the predominant cell population expressed cd3, cd2, cd5, and cd4, while results of testing for cd8 were negative. on the basis of the morphologic and immunohistologic features, a diagnosis of high-grade, non-hodgkin's lymphoma, t-cell immunoblastic type, was made. despite the fact that aggressive behavior is usually associated with immunoblastic lymphomas, the patient has done well for 33 months after cessation of carbamazepine in the absence of chemotherapeutic treatment. the clinical features of this patient's illness, therefore, suggest that it is best regarded as a so-called pseudolymphoma.
clinical outcome of emergency repeat coronary artery bypass surgery. to determine the clinical outcome of patients requiring emergency repeat coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) procedures, we reviewed 23 such procedures performed for ongoing myocardial ischemia refractory to medical management. the operative mortality was 17%. on follow-up, an average of 24.9 months after emergency reoperation, 14 of the 19 survivors (74%) had recurrent angina. as compared to a randomly selected group of 25 patients who underwent elective repeat cabg procedures during the same time period, the incidence of late cardiac events was significantly higher (79% in the emergency group, 30% in the elective surgery group) and fewer patients had received internal mammary artery (ima) grafts (9% vs 52%). emergency repeat cabg operations have considerable operative mortality and poor postoperative functional results with the majority of survivors developing recurrent ischemic syndromes within a short period of time.
systemic alpha-adrenergic blockade with phentolamine: a diagnostic test for sympathetically maintained pain. the diagnosis of sympathetically maintained pain (smp) is typically established by assessment of pain relief during local anesthetic blockade of the sympathetic ganglia that innervate the painful body part. to determine if systemic alpha-adrenergic blockade with phentolamine can be used to diagnose smp, we compared the effects on pain of local anesthetic sympathetic ganglion blocks (lasb) and phentolamine blocks (phb) in 20 patients with chronic pain and hyperalgesia that were suspected to be sympathetically maintained. the blocks were done in random order on separate days. patients rated the intensity of ongoing and stimulus-evoked pain every 5 min before, during, and after the lasb and phb. patients and the investigator assessing pain levels were blinded to the time of intravenous administration of phentolamine (total dose 25-35 mg). the pain relief achieved by lasb and phb correlated closely (r = 0.84), and there was no significant difference in the maximum pain relief achieved with the two blocks (t = 0.19, p greater than 0.8). nine patients experienced a greater than 50% relief of pain and hyperalgesia from both lasb and phb and were considered to have a clinically significant component of smp. we conclude that alpha-adrenergic blockade with intravenous phentolamine is a sensitive alternative test to identify patients with smp.
alternate-day prednisone treatment and treatment maintenance in crohn's disease. we have reviewed our data from 55 patients with crohn's disease (cd) treated with alternate-day prednisone (average dose: 25 mg every other morning) between 1966 and 1989 for a mean duration of 6.6 yr. daily divided corticosteroid doses were given to all patients with active disease that had not been responsive to supportive measures and, in almost all cases, not responsive to sulfasalazine alone. after initial remission was achieved, patients were switched to alternate-day doses. treatment evaluations utilized global assessment and the cd activity index of harvey and bradshaw (cdai-hb) shown to correlate closely with the national cooperative crohn's disease study (nccds) activity index (cdai). cdai-hb scores of 0-1 indicated no or minimal activity, whereas scores of 2-15 indicated progressive activity. with the cdai-hb and global assessments, in agreement in all cases, 33 patients (60%) showed favorable responses with 95% confidence intervals (ci) of 46.8 to 73.2. comparing the results with a literature-based 20% spontaneous long-term remission rate, the data are significant at p less than 0.01. serious complications were gratifyingly low, with no observed instances of osteonecrosis. it is concluded that alternate-day prednisone treatment and treatment maintenance, with or without concomitant sulfasalazine, after conventional induction of remission with daily steroid doses, is a reasonable treatment option for patients with cd not responsive to sulfasalazine alone.
paraneoplastic brachial plexopathy in a patient with hodgkin's disease. we describe a case of inflammatory brachial plexopathy that occurred in the context of a mild, diffuse sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy associated with hodgkin's disease. clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic studies helped distinguish this disorder from other causes of brachial plexopathy in patients with cancer. treatment with corticosteroids seemed beneficial in this patient. we suggest that this may be another type of paraneoplastic condition associated with hodgkin's disease.
moderate hypothermia after cardiac arrest of 17 minutes in dogs. effect on cerebral and cardiac outcome. moderate hypothermia (30 degrees c) induced before circulatory arrest is known to improve neurologic outcome. we explored, for the first time in a reproducible dog outcome model, moderate hypothermia induced during reperfusion after cardiac arrest (resuscitation). in three groups of six dogs each (n = 18), normothermic ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest (no blood flow) of 17 minutes was reversed by cardiopulmonary bypass--normothermic in control group i (37.5 degrees c) and hypothermic to 3 hours in groups ii (32 degrees c) and iii (28 degrees c). defibrillation was achieved in less than or equal to 5 minutes and partial bypass was continued to 4 hours, controlled ventilation to 20 hours, and intensive care to 96 hours. all 18 dogs survived. electroencephalographic activity returned significantly earlier in groups ii and iii. mean +/- sd best neurologic deficit between 48 and 96 hours was 44 +/- 8% in group i, 38 +/- 12% in group ii, and 35 +/- 7% in group iii (differences not significant). best overall performance category 2 (good outcome) between 48 and 96 hours was achieved in none of the six dogs in group i and in four of the 12 dogs in the combined hypothermic groups ii and iii (difference not significant). mean +/- sd brain total histologic damage score was 130 +/- 22 in group i, 93 +/- 28 in group ii (p = 0.05), and 80 +/- 26 in group iii (p = 0.03). gross myocardial damage was greater in groups ii and iii than in group i--numerically higher overall and significantly higher in group iii for the right ventricle alone (p = 0.02). moderate hypothermia after prolonged cardiac arrest may or may not improve cerebral outcome slightly and can worsen myocardial damage.
local control of auricular, periauricular, and external canal cutaneous malignancies with mohs surgery. three hundred ninety-seven patients with 407 cutaneous malignancies of the auricle, periauricular region, and cartilaginous external ear canal were reviewed. tumors were most commonly located in the preauricular and postauricular regions, followed by the helix, concha, antihelix, and ear canal. all lesions were excised with mohs microscopic control of margins. for lesions requiring lateral temporal bone resection, an adaptation of fresh-tissue microscopic control was used to analyze deep and anterior margins suspected of harboring residual tumor. two-year minimum follow-up of 229 patients with periauricular and auricular tumors (n = 231 tumors) and 14 patients with cartilaginous ear canal tumors (n = 14 tumors) revealed recurrence rates of 6.9% and 14.3%, respectively. recurrences were most common in cases of large tumors (greater than 2.5 cm), basal cell carcinomas with morphea elements, and multiply recurrent lesions. we conclude that mohs surgery is comparatively effective, though not uniformly curative, and can be adapted to supplement excision of large tumors in these regions.
scatter photocoagulation restores tissue hypoxia in experimental vasoproliferative microangiopathy in miniature pigs. experimental retinal branch vein occlusion using argon laser photocoagulation in miniature pigs induced the development of ischemic retinal territories associated with preretinal neovascularization. preretinal partial pressure of oxygen (po2) measurements on the ischemic territories, using o2-sensitive microelectrodes, established that the ischemic retinal areas were hypoxic. scatter photocoagulation of these ischemic hypoxic territories restores the local po2 to the normal values within 2 weeks. hence, the reported inhibitory effect of photocoagulation on the development of retinal neovascularization could be due to a reversal effect on tissue hypoxia.
tongue atrophy in mixed connective tissue disease. a case is reported of tongue atrophy in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease (mctd) and major myositic involvement. the case highlights oropharyngeal aspects of mctd, including inability to wear dentures, dysarthria, and dysphagia. to our knowledge this is the first report of major tongue involvement in myositis as part of mctd.
discontinuation of neuroleptic medication in older, outpatient schizophrenics. a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. thirty-five schizophrenic outpatients over the age of 52 who had been stable on neuroleptic medication were all switched to haloperidol. ten patients were unable to tolerate the haloperidol and two dropped out of the study. the remaining 23 patients were randomly and blindly assigned to haloperidol or placebo and then followed for 6 months. five patients did not complete the study due to medical or administrative reasons. among the patients who completed the study, five of 10 randomized to placebo relapsed compared with only one of eight randomized to haloperidol. however, three of 10 patients randomized to placebo have remained stable without medication for 2.5 years.
outcome probabilities and life history after surgical mitral commissurotomy: implications for balloon commissurotomy. from 1967 to 1988, 339 patients with mitral stenosis underwent surgical commissurotomy, 103 with a closed and 236 with an open technique. the 1 month and 1, 5, 10 and 20 year overall survival rate was 99.7%, 99%, 95%, 87% and 59%, respectively, and the technique (open versus closed) was not a risk factor. technique was also not a risk factor for a second mitral commissurotomy, subsequent mitral valve replacement, thromboembolism or poor functional status. risk factors were older age at commissurotomy, black race, higher pulmonary vascular resistance, mitral leaflet calcification, left ventricular enlargement and postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence. the closed technique was a risk factor for mitral incompetence immediately after commissurotomy, but important incompetence developed in only 2 of the 103 patients undergoing closed commissurotomy. mitral valve replacement was not required within 10 years in 78% of patients and within 20 years in 47%. despite some increased prevalence of postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence and particularly in view of the considerable long-term likelihood of mitral valve replacement, initial therapy for most patients with mitral stenosis should probably be surgical closed (or percutaneous balloon) mitral commissurotomy. the equations developed in the present study can be used to predict and compare outcome probability after percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with that after surgical commissurotomy and to compare these with outcome probability after mitral valve replacement.
molecular characterization of beta-thalassemia intermedia in patients of italian descent and identification of three novel beta-thalassemia mutations. in this study, we have defined by dot-blot analysis with allelic specific oligonucleotide probes or direct sequencing on amplified dna the beta-thalassemia mutations in a large group of patients (23) of italian descent with thalassemia intermedia. these patients had one parent with either the silent beta-thalassemia carrier phenotype or borderline-normal hemoglobin a2 (hba2) levels (2.5% to 3.5%). nearly all were genetic compounds for a severe beta-thalassemia mutation and a beta-thalassemia mutation associated with high residual output of beta-globin chains (beta + intervening sequence [ivs]-i-nt6, beta -87, beta -101), indicating that inheritance of a mild beta-thalassemia allele, even in a single dose, is the most common molecular mechanism producing thalassemia intermedia in the italian population. in three cases, in whom we failed to define by dot-blot analysis the mutations, we sequenced the beta + globin gene and found three novel beta-thalassemia mutations, which are certainly very rare because they have been hitherto detected solely in a single patient. these mutations consist of: (1) a t-a substitution at position 2 of ivs-i, in a patient compound heterozygote for this mutation and the -87 promoter mutation; (2) a g-c substitution at position 844 of ivs-ii, in a patient heterozygous for this mutation who showed normal sequences at the in trans beta-globin gene (the reason for the presence of clinical manifestations in a beta-thalassemia heterozygote has not been defined.); and (3) a deletion of one nucleotide (-t) at codon 126, resulting in a frameshift and readthrough of the 5' untranslated region and most likely producing an elongated hb molecule of 156 amino acid residues, in a patient heterozygous for this mutation with normal beta-globin gene sequences at the other locus.
postoperative complications in patients with disabling psychiatric illnesses or intellectual handicaps. a case-controlled, retrospective analysis. the purpose of this study was to quantitate the operative risk and costs encountered in the surgical treatment of institutionalized patients. operative complications and duration of hospitalization for 200 institutionalized patients were compared with those in a control group of patients matched for age, sex, and type of operation drawn from the general hospital population. postoperative complications occurred in 53 (26.5%) of the patients in the study group compared with 15 (7.5%) of the patients in the control group. elective laparotomy was followed by a complication in 48% of institutionalized patients compared with 11.6% of matched controls. emergency celiotomy carried a 75% complication rate in the study group. atelectasis and pneumonia accounted for 50% of the postoperative complications and occurred with greatest frequency following intra-abdominal procedures. the median hospital stay for all institutionalized patients was 3 days more than for matched controls. a strategy for postoperative treatment is presented, with particular emphasis on prevention of pulmonary complications.
persistent uptake of indium-111-antimyosin monoclonal antibody in patients with myocardial infarction. indium-111(111in)-antimyosin scintigraphy was investigated in 27 patients with myocardial infarction. 111in-antimyosin fab was administered intravenously, and planar and single photon emission computed tomographic images were obtained 48 hours later. uptake of 111in-antimyosin was present in 9 of 10 patients (90%) studied within 6 days of infarction. during the second week positive scans were seen in 16 of 16 patients (100%) including 13 (81%) who had normal creatine kinase levels. the mechanism of persistent positive antimyosin images in the subacute stage of myocardial infarction remains to be clarified. 111in-antimyosin scintigraphy may be useful as a noninvasive method for the detection of myocardial injury late and early after a suspected acute myocardial infarction.
transvascular intracardiac applications of a miniaturized phased-array ultrasonic endoscope. initial experience with intracardiac imaging in piglets. background. recent advances in miniaturization of phased-array and mechanical ultrasound devices have resulted in exploration of alternative approaches to cardiac and vascular imaging in the form of transesophageal or intravascular imaging. preliminary efforts in adapting phased-array endoscopes designed for transesophageal use to a transvascular approach have used full-sized phased-array devices introduced directly into the right atrium in open-chested animals. the purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of using a custom-made, very small phased-array endoscope for intracardiac imaging introduced intravascularly through a jugular venous approach in young piglets. methods and results. experimental atrial septal defects created in four piglets (3-4 weeks old) had been closed with a buttoned atrial septal defect closure device consisting of an occluder in the left atrium and a counteroccluder in the right atrium. five to 15 days after atrial septal defect closure, the piglets were returned to the experimental laboratory, where a 6.3-mm, 17-element, 5-mhz phased-array probe mounted on a 4-mm endoscope was introduced through a cutdown incision of the external jugular vein and advanced to the right atrium. from the right atrium all four cardiac chambers, their inflows and outflows, and all four valves were well imaged with minimal superior and inferior rotation. high-resolution imaging of the atrial septum defined with anatomical accuracy, later verified by autopsy, the exact placement of both the occluder and counteroccluder in the left and right sides of the atrial septal defects and the absence of any shunting across the atrial septum in any of the four animals. conclusions. our efforts indicate that transvascular passage of small phased-array probes can be easily accomplished and is a promising technique for detailed visualization of cardiac structures. this approach may provide an alternative to transesophageal echocardiography, particularly for guiding interventional procedures such as placement of transcatheter closure devices in pediatric patients.
emergency surgical treatment for nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract. endoscopic and biochemical data were collected prospectively from 1,530 patients admitted with nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract between september 1985 and june 1989. therapeutic endoscopy was done for 93 patients who underwent emergency surgical treatment for bleeding, subsequently required in 29 patients with seven postoperative fatalities. in contrast, 31 (15.7 per cent) of 198 patients (mortality rate of 9.6 per cent at 30 days) died in the hospital who had undergone emergency operation in whom therapeutic endoscopy had not been performed; data for this latter group is now presented. at admission, a greater likelihood of emergency operation was associated with a systolic blood pressure of 100 millimeters of mercury and endoscopic stigmatas of recent hemorrhage (esrh) (p less than 0.001). rebleeding rates for the presence of fresh blood, active spurting and oozing hemorrhage or visible vessel in an ulcer base were 26.5, 28.9 and 35.9 per cent, respectively. endoscopic stigmatas were thus associated with an increased risk of bleeding (p less than 0.0001) and rebleeding led to a sixfold increase in the mortality rate. congestive cardiac failure, chronic obstructive airway disease, chronic renal failure and a history of previous malignant disease were each associated with postoperative mortality rates of more than 50 per cent. an increased risk of mortality after emergency operation was related to age (p less than 0.0001), preoperative (p less than 0.002) and total (p less than 0.0001) blood transfusion requirement. immediate operation after resuscitation and endoscopy was required in 87 patients; 11 deaths (hospital mortality rate of 12.7 per cent and 9.2 per cent at 30 days) occurred in this group compared with 20 fatalities (18.0 per cent) documented in 111 patients (9.9 per cent at 30 days) who underwent surgical treatment for rebleeding. we conclude that age, concomitant medical illness and preoperative and total transfusion requirements are each related to outcome after emergency operations. such urgent intervention is best avoided if at all possible in patients with severe concomitant medical illness.
premenstrual syndromes defined by symptom-sets. an analysis is made of the pattern of presenting premenstrual symptoms in randomly selected general practice patients from the wellington region, new zealand. participants, 1826 healthy women 16-54 years old whose characteristics were reasonably representative of the adult female population, were asked about their general, obstetrical and gynaecological health. for the 1456 women who had menstruated within the last month or so, detailed questions were asked about the last menstrual cycle. each woman was assigned to one of seven premenstrual symptom sets. three groups had 'pure' symptoms, ie a predominant single symptom (breast tenderness, bloating or irritability). three groups had 'mixed' symptom-sets. the largest of the 'mixed' groups was formed by the women who reported breast tenderness, bloating and irritability together with tension and depression. women in this group were most likely to rate their symptomatology as severe. the last group contains a large number of women with miscellaneous symptoms. characteristics of these groups are outlined. the study highlights the importance of distinguishing among premenstrual syndromes as this can foster more effective clinical management.
short- and long-term results of catheter balloon percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy. percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (ptmc) was performed in 219 patients with symptomatic, severe rheumatic mitral stenosis. there were 59 men and 160 women, aged 19 to 76 years (mean 43). pliable, noncalcified valves were present in 139 (group 1), and calcified valves or severe mitral subvalvular lesions, or both, in 80 patients (group 2). atrial fibrillation was present in 133 patients (61%) and 1+ or 2+ mitral regurgitation in 59 (27%). technical failure occurred with 3 patients in our early experience. there was no cardiac tamponade or emergency surgery. the only in-hospital death occurred 3 days after the procedure in a group 2 premoribund patient in whom last-resort ptmc created 3+ mitral regurgitation. mitral regurgitation appeared or increased in 72 patients (33%); 3+ mitral regurgitation resulted in 12 patients (6%). there were 3 systemic embolisms. atrial left-to-right shunts measured by oximetry developed in 33 patients (15%). immediately after ptmc, there were significantly reduced (p = 0.0001) left atrial pressure (24.2 +/- 5.6 to 15.1 +/- 5.1 mm hg), mean pulmonary artery pressure (39.7 +/- 13.0 to 30.6 +/- 10.9 mm hg) and mitral valve gradient (13.0 +/- 5.1 to 5.7 +/- 2.6 mm hg). mitral valve area increased from 1.0 +/- 0.3 to 2.0 +/- 0.7 cm2 (p = 0.0001) and cardiac output from 4.4 +/- 1.4 to 4.7 +/- 1.2 liters/min (p less than 0.01). the results mirrored clinical improvements in 209 patients (97%). multivariate analysis showed an echo score greater than 8, and valvular calcification and severe subvalvular lesions as independent predictors for suboptimal hemodynamic results.
tuberculous peritonitis: a study comparing cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients. tuberculous peritonitis is a rare disease, which often goes unrecognized because of the subtle clinical clues and its insidous onset. we retrospectively analyzed the records of 37 cases of tuberculous peritonitis diagnosed over a 15-year period, and compared the clinical and diagnostic features of cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients. in cirrhotic patients, tuberculous peritonitis can simulate ascites from liver disease or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. the diagnosis is difficult in these patients because the ascitic fluid may not be of the exudative type as a result of the low albumin level in serum, and lymphocytes do not predominate in all cases. adenosine deaminase (ada) activity in ascitic fluid was elevated (higher than 40 u/l) in all 11 patients (four patients with hepatic cirrhosis). the time required to achieve a correct diagnosis was significantly longer in cirrhotic than in noncirrhotic patients. the overall mortality was 13%, with deaths occurring exclusively among cirrhotic patients. we emphasize that tuberculous peritonitis in cirrhotic patients can present an atypical picture. a considerable element of suspicion is necessary.
refeeding of infants with acute diarrheal disease. the purpose of this study was to determine which infant formula among five would be the most efficacious for the refeeding of infants during an acute episode of diarrhea. fifty male infants less than 12 months of age with severe diarrhea and at least 5% dehydration were admitted to a metabolic unit and studied in a prospective, single-blind protocol. ten infants randomly received one of five types of formula: two-thirds diluted cow milk, cow milk formula (nanon, nestle, inc., sao paulo, brazil), portagen, pregestimil, or prosobee (mead johnson & co. division, evansville, ind.). they continued to receive the same formula for 72 hours unless dehydration occurred. there were no associated infections, and they received no prior antibiotic treatment. oral hydration together with intravenous fluid therapy was given to all patients during the initial treatment. during the first 72 hours of refeeding, patients fed portagen excreted the least amount of stool and required reduced quantities of intravenous fluids or oral hydration. in contrast, patients fed diluted cow milk or any other formula had more severe diarrhea. nine of the 10 patients fed portagen completed the 72-hour treatment, whereas only 2 of 10 fed diluted cow milk tolerated it. similarly, the cumulative proportions for high purging rate, dehydration, carbohydrate intolerance, and vomiting were more favorable for portagen and least acceptable for diluted cow milk. no differences were found among the remaining three formulas tested. these data show that diluted cow milk is poorly tolerated by infants with severe diarrhea, whereas portagen is more effective.
early diagnosis and survival of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. the hospital records of patients treated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a recent 5-year period were reviewed to collect data on factors which may be associated with mortality. overall mortality was 62%. patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality (97%) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture (25%). patients at increased risk were older than 80 years, presented with syncope, experienced a short duration of symptoms prior to emergency department (ed) arrival, had initial systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg, and/or initial hemoglobin level less than eight on arrival at the ed and delay in beginning surgery. multivariate analysis demonstrated preoperative blood pressure, preoperative hemoglobin, presence of syncope, and the amount of blood transfused were largely reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality. the authors concluded that treating emergency physicians and surgeons have little control over the most important risk factors for mortality after aneurysm rupture, but may improve the prognosis by expediting diagnosis in the ed and surgical therapy.
chilaiditi's syndrome. a diagnostic challenge. chilaiditi's syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of abdominal and chest pain. although interposition of the right colon is a relatively common radiologic finding, there is a distinct paucity of information in the medical literature. chilaiditi's syndrome is usually asymptomatic, but when symptoms occur, conservative treatment is usually effective. recognition is important because this syndrome can be mistaken for more serious abnormalities, which may lead to unnecessary surgical intervention.
long term follow-up of descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral bypass. a prospective study of 26 patients undergoing descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral (dtai/f) bypass was conducted over a 13-year period with an average follow up of 53 months. reasons for selecting the procedure were occluded aortic bifurcation grafts (9 patients), hostile abdomen (6), infected aortic graft (1), microaorta (10, and surgeons preference in 8 patients who had juxtarenal aortic occlusion. the operative mortality was 3.8% (1 patient). a late mortality of 36% was due to myocardial infarction (1), lung carcinoma (2), renal failure (4), stroke (1) and pulmonary insufficiency (1). graft failure occurred in 4 patients at 23, 26, 54 and 109 months respectively. primary cumulative patency was 86% statistically valid at 42 months. dtai/f bypass is recommended in selected patients when conventional approaches to the aorta are considered unduly hazardous.
left ventricular mid-cavitary obstruction after balloon dilation in isolated aortic valve stenosis in children. a hyperdynamic left ventricle can lead to post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction in the absence of any preballoon mid-cavitary obstruction in children with aortic valve stenosis. the purpose of this study was to define the incidence and course of post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction. we reviewed the catheterization and echocardiographic data of 35 patients, ages 3 days to 18 years (mean = 7.9 years), with isolated aortic valve stenosis who underwent balloon dilation with a fall in aortic valve gradient to less than 20 mm hg. post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction was suspected from post-dilation left ventricular angiogram and was quantitated by echocardiographic and doppler examinations performed immediately after dilation and in a 1-3 month follow-up period. continuous wave doppler directed by color flow doppler was used for evaluation and differentiation of post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction and residual aortic valve stenosis. three children (3/35 [9%]) all under 2 years of age developed post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction immediately after dilation. the obstruction within the cavity resolved spontaneously in all three patients. conclusions: 1) post-dilation left ventricular mid-cavitary obstruction can occur in children under 2 years of age after balloon dilation of severe aortic valve stenosis, and 2) total regression of post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction occurs spontaneously in all patients.
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman. the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed.
spontaneous necrosis in osteosarcoma. the percentage of necrosis in a primary osteosarcoma after the patient has received preoperative chemotherapy is prognostic and is usually used to select subsequent chemotherapy. however, the percentage of necrosis that occurs spontaneously, without preoperative chemotherapy, has not been adequately studied. the examination of histologic macrosections of 76 osteosarcomas from patients who had not received preoperative treatment and of 20 patients who had received preoperative chemotherapy revealed a significant difference in the percentage of necrosis. there was minimal spontaneous necrosis, but necrosis after preoperative chemotherapy was usually extensive. the larger the tumor, the greater the percentage of spontaneous necrosis; however, size did not correlate with the percentage of necrosis with preoperative chemotherapy. survival among those patients who did not receive preoperative treatment correlated with the size and percentage of necrosis. necrosis in an osteosarcoma in a patient who has received preoperative chemotherapy can be considered the result of chemotherapy and not a spontaneous event.
chemotherapy for medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the posterior fossa. chemotherapy has only marginal efficacy in adult malignant brain tumors. in contrast, drug therapy is considerably more effective in medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumors (mb/pnet) of the posterior fossa, the most common childhood primary central nervous system tumor. at the time of disease recurrence, a variety of different single agents and drug combinations result in tumor shrinkage and increased survival. the addition of chemotherapy to standard radiotherapy improves the rate and length of disease-free survival for those children with mb/pnet who have the most extensive tumors at diagnosis. it remains to be determined which drug or drug combinations are the most effective in mb/pnet, and which patients are most likely to benefit from chemotherapy. chemotherapy may be useful to reduce or, in selected cases, obviate the need for radiotherapy and reduce treatment-related sequelae.
carbamazepine dose requirements during stiripentol therapy: influence of cytochrome p-450 inhibition by stiripentol. the inhibitory effect of stiripentol (stp) on disposition of carbamazepine (cbz) and carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide (cbze) was quantitated to establish cbz dosage reduction guidelines for future clinical add-on efficacy trials of stp. in seven epileptic patients, stp (1,500-3,000 mg/day for 2 weeks) inhibited cbz clearance by 50 +/- 16% (p = 0.001) and reduced the cbze/cbz plasma ratio by 45 +/- 14% (p = 0.0005). the inhibitory effect was gradually manifested over a period of 7-10 days after initiation of stp therapy. in contrast to inhibition of cbze formation, stp had no effect (p greater than 0.05) on elimination clearance or half-life (t1/2) of cbze in six healthy volunteers. stp most likely exerts inhibitory effects through inhibition of cytochrome p-450. this hypothesis was confirmed in the present study by the finding that a therapeutic concentration of stp (7 micrograms/ml) inhibited 10,11-epoxidation of cbz in human liver microsomes by 40-50%. on the basis of results from this study, we propose that (a) cbz dosage should be reduced in steps over a period of 7-10 days after initiation of stp, and (b) a cbz dosage of 4.3 to 8.7 mg/kg/day will maintain therapeutic cbz plasma levels of 5-10 micrograms/ml.
systemic alpha-adrenergic blockade with phentolamine: a diagnostic test for sympathetically maintained pain. the diagnosis of sympathetically maintained pain (smp) is typically established by assessment of pain relief during local anesthetic blockade of the sympathetic ganglia that innervate the painful body part. to determine if systemic alpha-adrenergic blockade with phentolamine can be used to diagnose smp, we compared the effects on pain of local anesthetic sympathetic ganglion blocks (lasb) and phentolamine blocks (phb) in 20 patients with chronic pain and hyperalgesia that were suspected to be sympathetically maintained. the blocks were done in random order on separate days. patients rated the intensity of ongoing and stimulus-evoked pain every 5 min before, during, and after the lasb and phb. patients and the investigator assessing pain levels were blinded to the time of intravenous administration of phentolamine (total dose 25-35 mg). the pain relief achieved by lasb and phb correlated closely (r = 0.84), and there was no significant difference in the maximum pain relief achieved with the two blocks (t = 0.19, p greater than 0.8). nine patients experienced a greater than 50% relief of pain and hyperalgesia from both lasb and phb and were considered to have a clinically significant component of smp. we conclude that alpha-adrenergic blockade with intravenous phentolamine is a sensitive alternative test to identify patients with smp.
postoperative complications in patients with disabling psychiatric illnesses or intellectual handicaps. a case-controlled, retrospective analysis. the purpose of this study was to quantitate the operative risk and costs encountered in the surgical treatment of institutionalized patients. operative complications and duration of hospitalization for 200 institutionalized patients were compared with those in a control group of patients matched for age, sex, and type of operation drawn from the general hospital population. postoperative complications occurred in 53 (26.5%) of the patients in the study group compared with 15 (7.5%) of the patients in the control group. elective laparotomy was followed by a complication in 48% of institutionalized patients compared with 11.6% of matched controls. emergency celiotomy carried a 75% complication rate in the study group. atelectasis and pneumonia accounted for 50% of the postoperative complications and occurred with greatest frequency following intra-abdominal procedures. the median hospital stay for all institutionalized patients was 3 days more than for matched controls. a strategy for postoperative treatment is presented, with particular emphasis on prevention of pulmonary complications.
nuclear medicine in otolaryngology. nuclear medicine has a distinct role to play in otolaryngological practice. accurate diagnosis of endocrine conditions is now possible using precise in-vitro hormone measurement. specific clinical questions can be answered using in-vivo investigations. 99mtco-4/123i scintigraphy is used to evaluate thyrotoxicosis and solitary thyroid nodules. 99mtc/201t1 subtraction scanning is of value in the preoperative localization of parathyroid adenomas and 99mtco-4 is particularly useful in assessing salivary and lachrymal gland function and drainage. 99mtc-mdp bone scanning is useful in the evaluation of osteomyelitis, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, bone graft viability and some facial fractures. the role of radioisotopes in the management of differentiated and medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is now well established. although there are many other agents available to image head and neck cancer, few can actually achieve the required diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. the introduction of monoclonal antibodies into routine imaging has been hampered by distinct practical problems and the search is now on for more sensitive non-specific diagnostic agents. it is now possible to evaluate new 99mtc labelled tumour-imaging agents using animal tumour model systems and the use of radioactivity in all aspects of otolaryngological research adds an extra quantitive dimension. together with spect, and the introduction of positron emission tomography (pet) to image the physiology of normal tissues and tumours, the use of radionuclide investigations can lead only to an increase in ent diagnostic sensitivity and specificity and, subsequently, to an overall improvement in the way we diagnose, stage and treat head and neck cancer.
acute naming deficits following dominant temporal lobectomy: prediction by age at 1st risk for seizures. age at 1st risk for seizures may predict anomia following dominant anterior temporal lobectomy. we assessed confrontation naming before and 2 to 3 weeks after surgery in 45 right-handed patients grouped by side of focus and presence or absence of early (less than or equal to 5 years) risk factors. after left lobectomy, 6 of 10 (60%) patients with no early risks demonstrated significant decline (greater than or equal to 25%) in naming, but none of the patients with early risks showed this decline. after right lobectomy, there was no change. cerebral representation of naming may be atypical in patients with early risks.
anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease. anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined, incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects. six patients had a high spinal lesion, 11 had a low spinal lesion, and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions. patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation. unlike normal subjects, there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes. the external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced, and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon. patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, blunted rectal sensation, and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures. most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers. sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions. patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, impaired rectal sensation, and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure. leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions.
photochemotherapy alone or combined with interferon alpha-2a in the treatment of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma. eighty-two patients with either mycosis fungoides (mf) or parapsoriasis en plaques were treated with psoralens ultraviolet a light (puva). clinical and histologic parameters were followed for a period from 6 months to 10 years. complete clinical clearing of lesions was observed in 51 patients (62%) and most of them were in limited-plaque mf group or parapsoriasis en plaque. the mean total dose of puva for complete clearing was less for early mf. thirty-one patients (38%) relapsed and responded to additional puva. patients in early stages of the disease remained clear for up to 68 months after the first course of puva. post-treatment skin biopsies with early mf showed histologic clearing. a new combination therapy for mf is presented in 15 patients. recombinant interferon alpha-2a (roferon-a), administered intramuscularly combined with puva were tested in a phase i trial. interferon doses were from 6-30 million units three times weekly. disease stages ranged from i-b to iv-b. complete responses were obtained in 12 of 15 patients, and partial responses seen in 2 of 15 patients, for an overall response rate of 93%. the median duration of response exceeded 23 months (range, 3 to 25 months). all responding patients have been maintained on therapy. the dose-limiting toxicities were constitutional symptoms such as fevers and malaise (93.3%), leukopenias (40.0%), mental status changes consisting of depression and confusion (33.3%), and photosensitivity (26.6%). interferon plus puva appear to be highly effective regimens for the treatment of patients with cutaneous t-cell lymphomas.
haematuria frequency syndrome in patients with positive hiv serology: observations in zambia. observations are presented on 9 patients recently treated in the university teaching hospital, lusaka, zambia, for painful urinary frequency, suprapubic pain and microscopic and/or macroscopic haematuria without any demonstrable urinary tract infection. at cystoscopy the bladder mucosa of all patients depicted a highly characteristic, uniformly congested appearance with no demonstrable ulcers; there was no significant reduction in bladder capacity. the histological appearance was essentially non-specific in type with an apparent resemblance to that of interstitial cystitis; mast cells were, however, absent in all specimens. an important feature common to all patients was an associated hiv infection; cytochemistry of the bladder tissue did not reveal an associated cytomegalovirus cystitis. no such case was observed in zambia prior to the advent of hiv infection and the phenomenon was observed only in seropositive patients. it has been suggested that the virus is likely to be associated with the genesis of the bladder symptoms. the natural history of the disorder, its incidence among the seropositive individuals and its pathogenesis remain unclear.
the ras oncogenes in human lung cancer. the three well-characterized genes of the ras gene family h-ras, k-ras, and n-ras, code for closely related 21-kd proteins that have a role in the transduction of growth signals. the ras proteins acquire transforming potential when a point mutation in the gene leads to replacement of an amino acid in one of the critical positions 12, 13, or 61. overexpression of the normal protein, usually associated with gene amplification, can have similar effects. the detection of mutationally activated ras genes has been facilitated by the development of oligonucleotide hybridization assays that allow the identification of each possible mutation at the critical sites. employment of the polymerase chain reaction has greatly increased the sensitivity of these assays. studies of human lung cancer have shown that adenocarcinoma is the only subtype associated with ras mutations. these occur in about 30% of primary tumors. in almost all cases, the mutation is present in codon 12 of the k-ras gene. no mutations have been observed to date in tumors of nonsmokers, suggesting that the mutation may result from exposure to carcinogenic ingredients of tobacco smoke. amplifications of ras genes were shown to be very uncommon in clinically early stages of lung cancer. analysis of the clinical data of patients who were operated on for adenocarcinoma of the lung shows that k-ras mutations are not associated with particular histologic characteristics of the tumors or with specific presenting features. patients with k-ras mutations, however, had significantly worse survival than did those without an activation.
characteristics of an elderly driving population referred to a geriatric assessment center. a retrospective, case-control study was performed to determine the characteristics of elderly drivers referred to an outpatient geriatric assessment center. it was hypothesized that the driving population was operating at a higher cognitive and functional level than nondrivers. one hundred eighty-two subjects meeting the entry criteria were studied. twenty-three percent of the subjects were driving at the time of their assessment. compared to nondrivers, drivers were younger (p = .0001), were more likely to be male (p = .003), scored higher on a mental status examination (p = .0001), and were more independent in physical and instrumental activities of daily living (p less than .0001). despite these findings, the mean folstein mini-mental score for drivers (23.7) was below normal; 40% of drivers were diagnosed as having alzheimer's dementia at the time of their evaluation, and over 26% of the drivers needed help with either dressing or bathing. the frequency of impaired elderly drivers in this referral setting was high. the authors conclude that conditions that affect the driving task are common in geriatric assessment centers. prospective studies of elderly drivers are needed to answer the difficult question of who among the elderly should drive.
hiccups and breathing in human fetuses. serial recording in 45 low risk fetuses throughout the second and third trimesters showed that hiccups were the predominant diaphragmatic movement before 26 weeks' gestational age and that there was a significant negative correlation with gestational age. there was a pronounced reduction between 24 and 26 weeks, which was the result of a decrease in the number of episodes of hiccups rather than a change in the duration of episodes. in contrast, fetal breathing was positively correlated with gestational age, the greatest increase in breathing occurring between 26 and 32 weeks' gestation. this was the result of both an increase in the number and duration of episodes. from the time that rest-activity cycles of behaviour could be determined in recordings, both breathing and hiccups were dependent on behavioural state or cycle, occurring predominantly during active episodes. this association between quiet and active behaviour and breathing did not alter with increasing gestational age, and the variables in fetal behavioural state became increasingly closely linked. the importance of prolonged and repeated recording, and also the need to take account of other variables in fetal behaviour, before any sinister conclusions can be drawn about the absence of fetal breathing is emphasised.
locked intramedullary nailing of femoral shaft fractures. one hundred twenty-three femoral shaft fractures were treated with grosse-kempf slotted, locked nails and followed for a median 20 (range, 12-60) months. there were eight intraoperative and 11 postoperative complications, among them two superficial and two deep infections. most of the intraoperative complications and some postoperatively lost reductions could have been prevented by a better operative technique and judgment of stability. seventy-eight results were graded as excellent, 24 as good, 19 as fair, and two as poor (one 9-cm shortening and one 40 degrees external malrotation). all fractures united without further procedures during the first year.
a case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-hodgkin's lymphoma. a case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-hodgkin's lymphoma of the mediastinum is reported in a 14-year-old boy. computed tomographic scan of the chest showed a mass of the anterior mediastinum and conspicuous swelling of the lymph nodes in the upper and lower mediastinum. they were grossly resected. the tumor of the anterior mediastinum was histologically diagnosed as true thymic hyperplasia. all of the mediastinal lymph nodes were diagnosed as non-hodgkin's lymphoma, diffuse, mixed small and large cell type.
effect of dietary alpha-linolenic acid on growth, metastasis, fatty acid profile and prostaglandin production of two murine mammary adenocarcinomas. the purpose of this study was to determine whether dietary (n-3) fatty acids would affect mammary tumor growth and metastasis. weanling female balb/c mice were fed diets that contained 10% corn oil (co), linseed oil (lo) or a fish oil-corn oil mix (fo) for 3-8 wk prior to receiving subcutaneous injections of one of two syngeneic mammary tumor cell types (410 and 410.4). tumor growth was assessed by monitoring mean tumor diameter and tumor weight upon removal. feeding lo, but not fo, reduced the growth (p less than 0.05) of 410.4 mammary tumors compared with growth in those fed co. metastasis data paralleled the tumor growth rate. feeding lo and fo enhanced (p less than 0.005) incorporation of (n-3) fatty acids into tumors. tumor prostaglandin e (pge) production was reduced (p less than 0.005) by lo and fo, compared with co. fo feeding reduced 410.4 tumor pge synthesis more (p less than 0.05) than lo feeding, yet tumor growth was only inhibited by lo. these data suggest an inhibitory effect of dietary linolenic acid [i.e., 18:3 (n-3)] on mammary tumor growth and metastasis. however, this effect did not directly correlate with diet-induced changes in pge synthesis.
a paradigm for restenosis based on cell biology: clues for the development of new preventive therapies. angioplasty causes substantial injury to the coronary artery intima and media that is unrecognizable by angiography. on the basis of a substantial body of research in oncology and wound healing, it is hypothesized that restenosis is a manifestation of the general wound healing response expressed specifically in vascular tissue. the temporal response to injury occurs in three characteristic phases: inflammation, granulation and extracellular matrix remodeling. the specific expression of these phases in the coronary artery leads to intimal hyperplasia at 1 to 4 months. the major milestones in the temporal sequence of restenosis are platelet aggregation, inflammatory cell infiltration, release of growth factors, medial smooth muscle cell modulation and proliferation, proteoglycan deposition and extracellular matrix remodeling. each step has potential inhibitors that could be used for preventive therapy. resolution of restenosis, however, probably requires both creation of the largest possible residual lumen and substantial inhibition of intimal hyperplasia.
oral cancer: a survey of 566 cases from the university of connecticut oral pathology biopsy service, 1975-1986. a survey of the university of connecticut oral pathology biopsy service was undertaken to analyze cases of oral cancer accessioned during the 12-year period, 1975 through 1986 inclusive. of 33,429 total specimens accessioned, there were 546 malignant oral neoplasms diagnosed and reported. sixty-five (11.5%) originated from out of state. invasive intraoral squamous cell carcinoma was the predominant tumor (69.7% of total), whereas lip cancer constituted only 2.8% of all malignancies. minor salivary gland adenocarcinomas accounted for 11% of total malignancies whereas verrucous carcinoma, carcinoma in situ, and miscellaneous other forms of oral cancer accounted for the remainder (4.6%, 5.3%, and 6.6%, respectively). cases of invasive squamous cell carcinoma were further analyzed by year, sex distribution, location subsite, age at diagnosis, and histologic grade. with the exception of histologic grading, we found that the characterization of cases of squamous cell carcinoma within the biopsy service tended to parallel results from a separate but related statewide analysis of both oral cancer and intraoral squamous cell carcinoma from connecticut over a much longer time span. we concluded that the picture of oral cancer as characterized by cases within the university of connecticut oral pathology biopsy service is generally reflective of the disease on a statewide level.
coronary flow and mental stress. experimental findings. the hemodynamic, electrocardiographic, and coronary flow responses to a psychological test were studied in 13 pigs both in the absence (group 1, n = 8) and the presence (group 2, n = 5) of a transient occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. the psychological test consisted of presenting food to a fasting but restrained animal for 3 minutes. in group 1, stress increased the heart rate from 128 +/- 5 to 176 +/- 8 beats/min (mean +/- sem) and arterial pressure from 93 +/- 4 to 112 mm hg. comparing the individual increase in rate-pressure product with the increase in coronary conductance during the test, a parallel response was found in only two animals, whereas a relatively lower coronary conductance was observed in the remainder, suggesting vasoconstriction. clinical signs of ischemia or life-threatening arrhythmias were never observed in this group of animals. each group 2 animal underwent two occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery, randomly performed on separate days both in the presence and the absence of the food deprivation stress. when the latter was applied in the presence of occlusion, all animals developed ventricular fibrillation in less than 2 minutes (mean, 81.4 seconds). conversely, only one animal had ventricular fibrillation when a 3-minute occlusion was performed without exposure to stress. this occurred despite the fact that more severe ischemia (as detected by an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and decreases in dp/dt and systolic pressure) was recorded at 3 minutes of occlusion.
does auxiliary heterotopic liver transplantation reverse hypersplenism and portal hypertension? in this study, performed to assess the effect of auxiliary heterotopic liver transplantation on portal hypertension and hypersplenism, eight patients with chronic liver disease who underwent the procedure and had functioning grafts for at least 6 months were analyzed. the transplantation resulted in (a) normalization of platelet and leukocyte counts, (b) reduction of splenomegaly by 20% +/- 3% (p less than 0.02), (c) disappearance of ascites, and (d) diminution of esophageal varices in all patients. intraoperatively, the mean portacaval pressure gradient decreased with 54% +/- 7% after recirculation of the graft (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, a functioning auxiliary heterotopic liver graft decompresses portal hypertension and reverses hypersplenism.
traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child. a case report. a seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine. evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula. surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula. traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare. the diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest.
spatial dispersion of magnetic stimulation in peripheral nerves. to assess the longitudinal dispersion of the stimulus induced by the magnetic coil, collision experiments were performed in seven normal ulnar nerves. a supramaximal electrical stimulus s1 was delivered at the wrist, and followed by a supramaximal stimulus s2 in the upper arm, which was either electrical (electrical collision studies), or magnetic (magnetic collision studies). the interstimulus interval was varied by 0.2 msec increments from the time of complete cancellation of the s2 evoked motor response onwards, to include the entire span of recovery of that compound motor action potential. collision curves were obtained for both magnetic and electrical stimuli by plotting the amplitude of the motor response elicited by s2 as a function of the interstimulus interval. in all seven normal ulnar nerves, comparison of the collision curves showed that the s2 evoked motor response is restored significantly more slowly when magnetic stimulation is used. this finding is best explained by longitudinal dispersion of the stimulus induced by the magnetic coil relative to conventional electrical stimulation, the large fibers being stimulated further away from the coil than the small ones. this interpretation is confirmed by the findings obtained with the same method in two cases of ulnar neuropathy, and by comparison of different intensities of magnetic stimulation.
growth of group a rotaviruses in a human liver cell line. recent observations in children with rotavirus gastroenteritis and in infant mice given rotavirus vaccine by oral administration suggest that this well-known gastrointestinal pathogen may infect the liver. to examine this possibility, the susceptibility of hep g2 cells to infection with a variety of rotavirus strains was tested. these cells were used because they are considered to be well differentiated and exhibit many liver-specific functions. the hep g2 cells supported the growth of the simian strain rhesus rotavirus (mmu 18006), a strain currently being used in vaccine trails, but did not support the growth of any human strain (d, ds1, price or st3). the rhesus rotavirus infection was cytopathic and resulted in release of lactate dehydrogenase. rhesus rotavirus growth in hep g2 cells displayed trypsin-enhanced infectivity and was inhibited by pretreatment of cells with arthrobacter ureafaciens neuraminidase but not with neuraminidase from clostridium perfringens. hep g2 cells were also permissive for another simian strain (sa11), a bovine strain (uk) and single gene substitution reassortants containing vp7 (the major outer capsid neutralization protein) from a human rotavirus strain and the remaining 10 genes from either rhesus rotavirus or uk. in general, uk and its reassortants produced lower levels of antigen than did rhesus rotavirus and its reassortants. hep g2 cells and other hepatic cell lines may prove to be useful tools to explore the hepatotropic potential of wild-type rotaviruses and candidate vaccine strains.
transesophageal echocardiography in acute aortic transection. confirming the diagnosis of acute transection of the descending aorta can be problematic. unnecessary patient movement and time delay are often associated with conventional investigations. we describe a patient in whom such an injury was clearly and quickly defined at the bedside by transesophageal echocardiography.
current concepts of cholesterol transport and crystal formation in human bile. the presence of vesicles in human bile probably accounts almost entirely for the frequently observed, but hitherto unexplained, phenomenon of metastable cholesterol supersaturation. this, in turn, largely explains the prolonged stability of cholesterol solubilized in supersaturated human bile. under certain overall compositional conditions for a supersaturated native bile, the vesicular phase in its contribution to total cholesterol transport also becomes supersaturated in cholesterol. because of this, the vesicles also become unstable, leading to formation of cholesterol crystals. a simple but common example of one factor affecting composition in this way is concentration of total solutes, especially the biliary lipids. conversely, dilution of bile (e.g., hepatic bile) markedly reduces the cholesterol saturation level in biliary vesicles. the result is that such vesicles become much more stable. under these conditions, cholesterol crystal formation becomes unlikely and rarely, if ever, occurs.
synergism of herpes simplex virus and tobacco-specific n'-nitrosamines in cell transformation. previous studies indicate that herpes simplex virus (hsv) enhances the carcinogenic activity of smokeless tobacco and tobacco-related chemical carcinogens in animals. since tobacco-specific n'-nitrosamines (tsnas) such as n'-nitrosonornicotine (nnn) and 4-(n-methyl-n'-nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (nnk) are major chemical carcinogens of smokeless tobacco and are known to be responsible for the development of oral cancers in smokeless tobacco users, the combined effects of tsnas and hsv in cell transformation were investigated. exposure of cells to nnn or nnk followed by virus infection resulted in a significant enhancement of transformation frequency when compared with that observed with chemical carcinogens or virus alone. this study suggests that tsnas and hsv can interact together and show synergism in cell transformation.
intratumoral oxygen pressure in malignant brain tumor. oxygen pressure (po2) in brain tumors, po2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumors, and pao2 were measured simultaneously during total resection in 16 patients with previously untreated brain tumors in order to detect hypoxic regions within the tumors. when the inhaled o2:n2o ratio was 1:3 under enflurane anesthesia, mean pao2 was 109.2 +/- 5.8 mm hg, a rather high value when compared with that obtained when air is inhaled under atmospheric pressure. the simultaneously measured intratumoral po2 and po2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumor were 15.3 +/- 2.3 and 59.8 +/- 6.5 mm hg, respectively. each intratumoral po2 value was significantly lower than that of po2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumor (mean less than 30 mm hg, wilcoxon signed rank test, p less than 0.005) and influenced the oxygen effects on radiation. these results appear to confirm that there are hypoxic regions within human brain tumors. a comparison between intratumoral po2 and either the angiographic or contrast-enhanced computerized tomography scans of the tumor vasculature disclosed no correlation.
idiopathic and glucocorticoid-induced spinal epidural lipomatosis. pathological overgrowth of the epidural fat in the spine has been described and reported nearly exclusively in patients either with cushing's syndrome or on chronic intake of glucocorticoids for a variety of clinical disorders. the authors report four patients with documented spinal lipomatosis (three pathologically and one radiologically). only one of these patients received corticosteroids, and none had an underlying endocrinological abnormality. all four patients were adult males with a mean age at onset of symptoms of 43 years (range from 18 to 60 years). the symptoms ranged from simple neurogenic claudication and radicular pain to frank myelopathy. myelography followed by computerized tomography were instrumental in the diagnosis of the first three patients; the fourth was diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. the thoracic spine was involved in two cases and the lumbosacral area in the other two. the different treatment modalities were tailored according to the symptomatology of the patients. these included weight reduction of an overweight patient with minimal neurological findings in one case and decompressive laminectomy and fat debulking to achieve adequate cord decompression in the remaining three cases. two patients improved significantly, the condition of one stabilized, and the fourth required a second decompression at other spinal levels. the various modalities of treatment and their potential complications are discussed.
langerhans cell histiocytosis in monozygotic twins. langerhans cells histiocytosis, one of a group of histiocytosis syndromes characterized by langerhans cell infiltration, has many clinical manifestations. in the past 30 years, numerous cases of presumed letterer-siwe disease, the acute multiorgan variant, have been reported in twins and siblings. only recently has the histiocyte society established a criterion for a "definitive diagnosis" of langerhans cell histiocytosis--the presence of birbeck granules within the cells of the histiocytic infiltrate. we report the fatal outcome of langerhans cell histiocytosis in monozygotic twin infants. there is no satisfactory explanation why langerhans cell histiocytosis occurs concurrently in twins. we suggest that cytokines may provide an endogenous signal that triggers the pathologic proliferation of langerhans cells.
increasing the yield of ventricular tachycardia induction: a prospective, randomized comparative study of the standard ventricular stimulation protocol to a short-to-long protocol and a new two-site protocol. programmed ventricular stimulation with a standard protocol that used up to three extrastimuli was compared prospectively with a short-to-long protocol and a two-site protocol in 77 consecutive patients undergoing electrophysiologic study in an attempt to increase the yield of ventricular tachycardia (vt) induction. the short-to-long protocol uses a train of eight stimuli at a short cycle length and up to two extrastimuli. the two-site protocol is similar to the standard protocol but delivers the last extrastimulus via a second spatially separated right ventricular catheter. patients were divided into two groups based on indications for study: group 1 included 45 patients with syncope, nonsustained vt, or both, and group 2 included 32 patients with a history of sustained vt, sudden cardiac death, or both. the yield of vt induction with the short-to-long protocol was less than that with the standard protocol. in none of the patients in group 1 in whom the standard protocol results were negative did the short-to-long protocol produce sustained vt. only two patients, both in group 2, had sustained arrhythmias induced by the short-to-long protocol when the standard protocol results were negative: one had sustained vt induced and one with long qt syndrome had ventricular fibrillation (vf) induced with the short-to-long protocol. however, the short-to-long protocol failed to induce sustained vt in seven patients in whom the standard protocol produced sustained vt. all seven of these patients required three extrastimuli with the standard protocol for induction of vt.
effects of vagal stimulation on experimentally induced seizures in rats. repetitive stimulation of the vagus nerve inhibits chemically induced seizures in dogs. we report here the results and conclusions from studies designed to answer some of the immediate questions raised by this finding. (1) maximal stimulation of vagal c fibers at frequencies greater than 4 hz prevents or reduces chemically and electrically induced seizures in young male rats. (2) antiepileptic potency is directly related to the fraction of vagal c fibers stimulated. (3) vagal stimulation shortens but does not shut down a chemical seizure once it has begun. (4) in rats, optimal stimulus frequency is approximately 10-20 hz; duration of stimulus, 0.5-1 ms; and stimulus strength, 0.2-0.5 ma/mm2 of nerve cross-section. these results, when taken together with similar results obtained from dogs, monkeys, and humans, strongly suggest that periodic stimulation of the vagus nerve using appropriate stimulation parameters is a powerful method for preventing seizures. the data from the literature suggest that the antiepileptic actions of vagal stimulation are largely mediated by widespread release of gaba and glycine in the brainstem and cerebral cortex. the probable pathway is via projections from the nucleus of the solitary tract to the reticular formation and thence by diffuse projections to the cortex and other areas. intermittent vagal stimulation has the potentiality of reducing the number and/or the intensity of seizures in patients with intractable epilepsy. these results indicate that feasibility studies in humans should be continued and expanded.
percutaneous thecoperitoneal shunt for syringomyelia. report of three cases. between january and april, 1990, three consecutive cases of syringomyelia were treated by percutaneous placement of thecoperitoneal shunts. two of these patients had undergone craniovertebral decompression earlier at other centers and the third was treated primarily by a thecoperitoneal shunt. in each case, the syrinx was associated with chiari i malformation, although the clinical presentation was due to a myelopathy. all three patients obtained unequivocal benefit from this simple procedure. postoperative magnetic resonance images showed considerable shrinkage of the cysts corresponding with clinical improvement.
which cardiac disturbances should be treated with digoxin immune fab (ovine) antibody? digoxin excess can produce characteristic bradyarrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, and hyperkalemia. the bradyarrhythmias, which consist of disturbances in conduction and block at the level of the atrioventricular and sinus nodes, are mediated by a direct and vagotonic effect. the vagotonic effect of excess digoxin may also result in a marked slowing of the sinus rate in the setting of severe toxicity. digoxin increases automatic and triggered electrical activity in atrial muscle, his-purkinje system, and ventricular muscle, which predisposes to tachycardias. many of the tachyarrhythmias are relatively specific for the toxic effects of digoxin. atrial tachycardias with variable atrioventricular block, accelerated junctional rhythms (especially in the setting of atrial fibrillation), and fascicular tachycardias are characteristic digoxin toxic rhythms. digoxin-specific antibody fragments should be considered the treatment of choice for any digoxin toxic arrhythmia associated with hemodynamic compromise or the threat of hemodynamic compromise. hyperkalemia, when due to acute severe digoxin toxicity, is also an appropriate indication for digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy. when assessing the risk:benefit ratio for using digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy, one needs to determine, in addition to the electrocardiographic manifestations and patient's hemodynamic status (1) the severity of toxicity, as indexed by the amount ingested and/or the serum digoxin concentration; (2) the expected time course for reversal of toxicity, which is usually determined by the status of renal function; (3) the need for digoxin to provide ventricular rate control or improved ventricular contractility and therapeutic alternatives to digoxin; (4) the presence of a strong allergy history; (5) the presence of such factors as increased age and severity of heart disease that may predispose to digoxin toxicity.
morbidity, mortality, and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years. in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, stroke, cancer, and death (the status of 99.7% of the initial participants was established). the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality. of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981, 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits. these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease, and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data, with the exception of a slightly higher body mass, taller stature, and lower serum cholesterol concentration. the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function. we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy.
peritoneal dialysis in the geriatric patient. elderly patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis (cpd) from two large chronic peritoneal dialysis programs were compared with younger patients in regard to peritonitis rates, catheter problems, hospital days, transfers to other forms of therapy, and mortality. peritonitis rates and organisms were similar in younger and older patients. catheter replacements were less common in the elderly. differences in hospital days were attributable to hospitalization for vascular disease. the elderly were more likely to have the first episode of peritonitis, to die and to change dialysis modalities at all times after the first year of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) treatment, although other than increased mortality, differences between the two groups were small. cpd appears to be an acceptable form of renal replacement therapy in the elderly.
peptic ulcer perforation as the presentation of zollinger-ellison syndrome. we examined the characteristics of patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome who developed a perforation prior to diagnosis to determine whether any clinical features were useful markers of the syndrome. of 160 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome, perforation occurred prior to the diagnosis being made in 11 (7%). at surgery, perforations were found in the duodenum in six cases and in the jejunum in five. in no case was tumor identified at emergency surgery, and the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome was made only in the postoperative period when excessive gastric secretions were noted. neither acid output nor serum gastrin concentration were useful predictors for perforation. the patients, six men and five women, were 27-61 years old (median 48) and one had men-1. three patients had no symptoms prior to the perforation. the other eight had symptoms for 1-15 years, with diarrhea occurring in 45% of the cases. following the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome, patients were given medication to control gastric acid hypersecretion. eight patients remained well, but the three patients who had had a partial gastrectomy had a complicated course despite medical therapy. although features of perforation in zollinger-ellison syndrome are not specific, jejunal perforation or perforation associated with a history of diarrhea is suggestive of the diagnosis. serum gastrin should be measured in every case and a partial gastrectomy avoided.
carotid-esophageal fistula following a penetrating neck injury: case report. carotid arterial injuries frequently are associated with injuries to adjacent structure of the neck, particularly the esophagus and trachea. complications from these repairs are common and fistula formation is herein described between the carotid artery and esophageal repair.
pressure-curve variations after trabeculectomy for chronic primary open-angle glaucoma. we report the results of a 5-year study of the influence of trabeculectomy on the maximum intraocular pressure (iop) and the amplitude of its diurnal oscillation in 26 eyes (14 patients) with open-angle glaucoma. pressure-curves were recorded before surgery and at 1 year and 5 years after surgery. the latter two pressure-curves demonstrated that trabeculectomy significantly reduced both the maximum iop and the amplitude of the oscillations below preoperative values.
fixation of intertrochanteric fractures of the femur. a randomised prospective comparison of the gamma nail and the dynamic hip screw. we have prospectively compared the fixation of 100 intertrochanteric fractures of the proximal femur in elderly patients with random use of either a dynamic hip screw (dhs) or a new intramedullary device, the gamma nail. we found no difference in operating time, blood loss, wound complications, stay in hospital, place of eventual discharge, or the patients' mobility at final review. there was no difference in failure of proximal fixation: cut-out occurred in three cases with the dhs, and twice with the gamma nail. however, in four cases fracture of the femur occurred close to the gamma nail, requiring further major surgery. in the absence of these complications, union was seen by six months in both groups.
strapless oral-nasal interface for positive-pressure ventilation. a custom-fabricated strapless oral-nasal interface (soni) is described. it was used in the long-term administration of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation (ippv) by 18 patients with paralytic or restrictive pulmonary insufficiency. this interface is an acrylic shell which is firmly fixed to an orthodontic bite plate; it is designed to form a seal over the nose and mouth for the entry of ippv. eight patients were ventilator dependent 24 hours a day. the ten patients who required only nocturnal aid had improvement in daytime arterial blood gases. although nine of these patients could manage less than 15 minutes of unassisted breathing (free time) supine, all slept supine on soni ippv. the 13 patients who underwent sleep monitoring maintained a mean oxygen saturation of 95.3% +/- 1.7% and acceptable end-tidal pco2 (30 to 45 mmhg). these 13 patients have used soni ippv for an average of 22 months (range = 3 to 63 months). impediments to successful long-term use of a soni include the presence of a hyperactive gag reflex or stimulation of excessive oral secretions. when combined with mouth ippv, glossopharyngeal breathing, the intermittent abdominal pressure ventilator, or the cuirass ventilator for daytime use, soni ippv is an option for the patient who prefers total ventilatory support by noninvasive means.
acquired childhood aphasia. outcome 1 year after onset. the effects of the variables age at onset, cause, severity and bilaterality of lesion, and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children. analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia. the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans. most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset. recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories. complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases.
interpreting results of exercise studies after acute myocardial infarction altered by thrombolytic therapy, coronary angioplasty or bypass. numerous studies have assessed the ability of exercise modalities to predict patient outcome after acute myocardial infarction (ami). implicit in the use of these prior data to assess the prognosis of patients currently undergoing exercise studies is the assumption that patients selected for exercise assessment are similar over time and that the data generated in the past are therefore applicable to the current patient populations. this study retrospectively assessed the clinical, exercise, and rest and exercise radionuclide angiographic data in 791 consecutive patients referred for exercise radionuclide angiography within 1 month after ami during a 5-year period to determine if the clinical and exercise characteristics of patients referred for exercise evaluation after infarction have changed significantly over time. most parameters examined demonstrated significant increasing trends, including thrombolytic therapy at the time of ami, revascularization procedure between ami and exercise assessment, age, beta-blocker usage, q-wave ami, inferior infarction, exercise double product, exercise capacity, significant st-segment depression with exercise, peak ejection fraction, and change in ejection fraction with exercise. these data indicate that the characteristics of patients selected to undergo exercise after ami in a large referral center have changed significantly over time. if these data are applicable to other referral centers and to other exercise testing modalities, previously published results regarding exercise assessment after ami will need to be reconfirmed in patients currently selected for testing, since these results may no longer be applicable in this current era of aggressive medical and interventional management.
massive splenomegaly. superior results with a combined endovascular and operative approach. splenectomy for massive splenomegaly (drained splenic weight, greater than 1000 g) has an uncommonly high morbidity and mortality because of technical challenges and problems of hemostasis. in a group of 10 patients with massive splenomegaly due to myeloproliferative disorders (average splenic weight, 4193 g), we developed a management algorithm based on preoperative angiographic embolization of the splenic artery. average operating time was 1.7 hours (range, 1 to 2.5 hours). average blood loss was 528 ml; six of the 10 patients had blood loss less than 250 ml. there were four minor complications and one major complication (gastric ulcer requiring reoperation). there were no deaths in the perioperative period, and no patients required reoperation for hemorrhage.
septic arthritis of the c1-c2 lateral facet joint and torticollis: pseudo-grisel's syndrome. we present the case of a 76-year-old man who experienced the sudden development of fever, rightsided neck pain and stiffness, and torticollis. a soft tissue mass was noted on the right side of his neck, but his head was tilted to the left. computed tomography scans (with reformatted sagittal and coronal images) of the patient's cervical spine revealed destructive changes of the right lateral masses of c1 and c2 and the clivus, and a well-delineated peridontoid soft tissue mass (confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging). after the second episode of right-sided hemiparesis, he underwent transoral surgical exploration, with anterior decompression and odontoidectomy. histologic examination of the surgical material revealed granulation tissue, fibrosis, and chronic inflammation, consistent with abscess formation with invasion and compression of the spinal cord and bone. this case suggests that nonreducible rotational head tilt to the side opposite the side of lateral mass collapse should raise the suspicion of a possible infection.
segmented turboflash: method for breath-hold mr imaging of the liver with flexible contrast. a method called segmented turboflash imaging allows high-resolution, multisection, short-inversion-time (ti) inversion-recovery (stir), t1- or t2-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval. the method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions. sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboflash, single-shot turboflash, t1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time, and t2-weighted spin-echo (se) techniques. signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboflash method, with tis of 10 and 300 msec, respectively; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach. signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best t2-weighted se and t1-weighted gradient-echo techniques. it is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboflash imaging. the method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis.
anterior lingual mandibular salivary gland defect. evaluation of twenty-four cases. lingual mandibular salivary gland defects in the posterior part of the mandible are not uncommon. analogous defects in the anterior region, however, are rare, and the four new cases presented in this report bring the total number of reported cases up to 24. the purpose of the present study was to review and analyze the clinical, radiographic, and histologic features of the previously reported cases together with those of the present study. the majority of these defects were located in the cuspid and/or premolar area and were diagnosed in men in their fifth and sixth decades of life. almost all defects contained normal salivary gland tissue. the differential diagnosis, treatment, and pathogenesis of these defects are discussed.
improved silver staining of nucleolar organiser regions in paraffin wax sections using an inverted incubation technique [published erratum appears in j clin pathol 1991 jun;44(6):528] a new simple modification to the silver staining of nucleolar organiser regions (agnors) was devised which, by performing the incubation with the slide inverted, results in minimal undesirable background staining, a persistent problem. inverted incubation is facilitated by the use of a commercially available plastic coverplate. this technique has several additional advantages over other published staining protocols. in particular, the method is straightforward, fast, and maintains a high degree of contrast between the background and the agnors.
intra-abdominal "angiosarcomatosis" report of two cases after pelvic irradiation. angiosarcomas account for only 1% to 2% of all soft tissue sarcomas with the most common site of origin being skin and subcutaneous tissue particularly on the face and scalp of elderly patients. these neoplasms rarely arise in the small or large bowel with presentation as diffuse abdominal "angiosarcomatosis." two patients are reported who were treated with adjuvant pelvic irradiation for gynecologic malignancies (squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix and adenocarcinoma of the endometrium) in whom diffuse abdominal angiosarcoma of intestinal origin developed 7 and 18 years later. both patients were treated with standard megavoltage irradiation. the clinical course was rapid in both cases with death due to intra-abdominal hemorrhage and bowel obstruction. the pertinent literature relating to the association between radiation therapy and subsequent development of angiosarcomas of soft tissues and other sites is briefly reviewed.
effects of two chest tube clearance protocols on drainage in patients after myocardial revascularization surgery. the purpose of the study was to determine the effects of two methods of clot clearance on chest tube drainage in patients undergoing myocardial revascularization. two hundred adult patients immediately after myocardial revascularization were randomly assigned to a specific chest tube manipulation group. the dependent variables were drainage, incidence of cardiac tamponade, incidence of surgical reentry, hemodynamic values, and number of manipulation episodes. statistical analyses revealed no difference in any of the dependent variables when milking and stripping were used. of the 200 patients, 78 did not require any manipulation of the chest tubes in the first 8 hours after surgery. one patient had signs of cardiac tamponade and six other patients required surgical reentry. positioning of the connecting tube in a nondependent position assisted with the removal of drainage from the chest cavity. in conclusion, patients having myocardial revascularization did not need their chest tubes manipulated the first 8 hours after surgery. visible drainage in the chest tube did not cause a lack of patency.
thalidomide: treatment of severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis in patients with aids. an increasing number of aids patients have been noted to suffer severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis (ras), a condition often associated with high morbidity that remains unresponsive to conventional therapeutic interventions. in two cases thalidomide was administered to successfully treat aids patients with ras. both patients experienced complete abatement of pain shortly after therapy was initiated. ulcerations that were present for months resolved after three or four weeks of thalidomide therapy without any adverse effects. thalidomide appears to be an effective agent for the treatment of severe ras unresponsive to traditional therapies.
interaction of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d and plasma renin activity in high renin essential hypertension. renin secretion by the kidney is inhibited by an increase in free intracellular calcium concentration. this increase in free intracellular calcium content may be augmented by serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. in 10 subjects with high renin hypertension, an increase in dietary sodium intake resulted in an increase in urinary calcium excretion (2.5 to 3.4 mmol/l, p = .011) and an increase in serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d (51.2 to 61.0 pmol/l, p = .045). an inverse correlation existed between the change in vitamin d and the change in plasma renin activity (r = -0.765, p = .01). an inverse correlation also existed between the change in plasma renin activity and the change in mean arterial blood pressure (r = -0.757, p = .011). it is postulated that the increase in dietary sodium led to an increase in serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentration, which may have contributed to an increase in intracellular calcium concentration, a decrease in renal secretion of renin, and a fall in plasma renin activity. the resultant fall in pra in part effected the change in blood pressure to the increased sodium intake. therefore, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d may be a mediator in the response of high renin hypertension to increased sodium intake.
a monoclonal antibody against the cd18 leukocyte adhesion molecule prevents indomethacin-induced gastric damage in the rabbit. the role of leukocyte adherence in the mechanism of gastropathy induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was investigated using a rabbit model. gastric damage was induced by intragastric instillation of indomethacin [5 mg/ml] for a period of 30 minutes. histologically, this treatment resulted in extensive vascular congestion and leukocyte margination within the mucosa. pretreatment with a monoclonal antibody [ib-4] directed against the common beta subunit of the cd11/cd18 adhesion glycoprotein complex significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced both the vasocongestion and the prevalence of leukocyte margination. macroscopically, indomethacin treatment resulted in the formation of numerous hemorrhagic lesions in the corpus region of the stomach. pretreatment with ib-4 reduced the extent of gastric hemorrhagic damage by approximately 85% (p less than 0.001). damage in the group pretreated with ib-4 did not differ significantly from that in rabbits that did not receive indomethacin. in separate experiments, the dose of ib-4 used was shown to completely suppress the recruitment of granulocytes in response to two different agonists. these results support the hypothesis that leukocyte adherence to the vascular endothelium is an important event in the pathogenesis of ulceration induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. leukocytes might contribute to ulceration by occluding microvessels, thereby reducing mucosal blood flow, and by releasing various mediators, proteases, and free radicals that can produce tissue necrosis.
cervico-ocular function in patients with spasmodic torticollis. the cervico-ocular (cor) and active and passive vestibulo-ocular reflexes (vor) were measured in seven patients with spasmodic torticollis (st) and six normal controls. the cor was found to be weak or absent in both groups. the vor gain was similar in the two groups but five patients had a significant asymmetry of the response. there was no evidence of abnormal cervico-vestibular interaction during active head rotation. the study suggests that the vor asymmetry frequently found in st cannot be explained on the basis of an abnormal cervical input.
all-trans retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemias. ii. in vitro studies: structure-function relationship. all-trans retinoic acid induces leukemic cells from patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (m3) to differentiate in vitro to mature granulocytes which express the cd15 antigen and are capable of respiratory burst function. of 35 m3 samples, only one failed to respond. in eight cases, we compared the efficacy of two naturally occurring isomers of retinoic acid, all-trans ra and 13-cis ra. both isomers induce maximal differentiation at 10(-6) mol/l. the maximal response was maintained at 10(-7) mol/l for the all-trans but not for the 13-cis ra. we also observed that the metabolites 4-oxo-all-trans and 4-oxo-13-cis were effective at 10(-6) mol/l. this 1 order of magnitude difference in the in vitro differentiating potencies of all-trans ra and 13-cis ra in the blasts of promyelocytic leukemias predicts a difference in the clinical efficacy of the two drugs.
ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications. four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications. there was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index. however, lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. of these patients, forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex, age, concomitant illness and operation performed. the cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls (11.98 versus 12.43). the increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36, and less than 13 was 3.44. surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients.
prognostic factors in yolk sac tumors of the ovary. a clinicopathologic analysis of 29 cases. twenty-nine ovarian cancer patients with yolk sac tumors and germ cell tumors with yolk sac tissue as a component of their disease (16 endodermal sinus tumor, 11 mixed germ cell tumors, one embryonal carcinoma, and one polyembryoma) were treated with cytoreductive surgery and combination chemotherapy. prognostic factors were investigated in this group. patients with stage i disease had a more favorable prognosis (p less than 0.003) than those with stages ii and iv disease. the difference in prognosis was significant in cases where residual tumor was absent (p less than 0.003) and in cases where ascites was either absent or less than 100 ml in volume (p less than 0.05). endodermal sinus tumor with either an intestinal (p less than 0.05) or microcystic pattern (p less than 0.01) was more common in survivors than in those who died. the age, preoperative serum alpha-fetoprotein level, maximum tumor size, and tumor weight had no significant correlation with prognosis. in advanced cases, chemotherapy regimens including cisplatin gave better results than those containing vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (p less than 0.05). the optimal treatment of yolk sac tumors or tumors with yolk sac tissue as a component of the ovary is discussed in light of these results.
preoperative piroxicam for postoperative analgesia in dental surgery. fifty patients were allocated randomly to receive placebo or piroxicam 40 mg, 2.5 h before surgical removal of lower third molars under general anaesthesia. a significantly greater number of patients in the piroxicam group did not require opioid analgesia after operation (p less than 0.05). the piroxicam group also required fewer doses of paracetamol in the first 24 h after recovery from anaesthesia (p less than 0.05), and the time from recovery to first postoperative analgesia was longer in those patients who had received piroxicam (p less than 0.05). piroxicam did not significantly prolong the duration of recovery from anaesthesia.
the headache-specific locus of control scale: adaptation to recurrent headaches. this paper describes the development, psychometric properties, and construct and incremental validity of a headache-specific locus of control scale (hslc). the hslc is a 33 item scale designed specifically for recurrent headache sufferers. it assesses the individual's perceptions that headache problems and headache relief are determined primarily by: the individual's behavior (internal factors), health care professionals, or chance factors. the psychometric properties of the hslc were satisfactory. among our findings were that: (1) the belief that headache problems and relief are determined by chance factors was associated with higher levels of depression, physical complaints, reliance on maladaptive pain coping strategies (p less than .001), and greater headache-related disability (p less than .01); (2) the belief that headache problems and relief are influenced primarily by the ministrations of health care professionals was associated with higher levels of medication use (p less than .01) and preference for medical treatment (p less than .001); and (3) the belief that headache problems are determined by the individual's responses and behaviors was associated with a preference for self-regulation treatment (p less than .01). these findings suggest adaptation to headache problems is influenced not only by the frequency and severity of the headache episodes, but by locus of control beliefs. the assessment of locus of control beliefs may provide useful information not typically obtained from standard medical evaluations.
randomised single blind trial to compare the toxicity of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime in cataract surgery. comparatively little attention has been paid to the conjunctival toxicity of antibiotics administered at the time of cataract surgery. we have observed the effect of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime injection, using colour photography in a randomised single blind trial of 121 patients undergoing routine cataract surgery. our results suggest that a hyperaemic eye is likely to occur about twice as often in patients injected with gentamicin (p less than 0.001). gentamicin is associated with more pain postoperatively (p less than 0.05). significant manifestations of gentamicin toxicity are conjunctival oedema and capillary closure. cefuroxime has some theoretical advantages over gentamicin in its antibacterial spectrum.
prognosis and treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma secondary to epidermodysplasia verruciformis: a worldwide analysis of 11 patients. data were collected from three medical centers in the usa, poland, and japan regarding 11 patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma (scc) secondary to epidermodysplasia verruciformis (ev). analysis was conducted regarding primary tumor location, age at onset of ev, age at diagnosis of scc, treatment of scc, history of local tumor recurrence, presence of metastases, and age at death. three of 11 patients developed both lymph node and visceral metastases and the mean patient age at death was 44 years (n = 6) with no patient to date living past 54 years. mean patient survival time following metastases was 1.7 years (n = 2). human papilloma virus typing of nine patients was performed. current controversies regarding the treatment of patients with advanced scc in the setting of ev are reviewed.
endoscopic coagulation of the choroid plexus using the nd:yag laser: initial experience and proposal for management. although most patients with hydrocephalus are treated effectively with ventriculoperitoneal shunts, a small group fails to respond to diversion procedures. in some patients within this group, hydrocephalus may be caused in part by the overproduction of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf). in other patients, previous shunt infections may limit the ability of the peritoneum to absorb fluid, and patient response to a ventriculoperitoneal shunt may be improved by reducing csf production. we discuss a case of a 29-month-old hydrocephalic infant with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt who had ascites. computed tomography showed bilateral symmetrical enlargement of the choroid plexus. repeated cultures of the csf and shunt tubing were sterile, and the daily production of the csf exceeded 1000 ml. therapy with acetazolamide decreased the csf output temporarily, but it was discontinued after serious electrolyte abnormalities occurred. the endoscopic coagulation of the choroid plexus with a neodymium:yag laser transmitted through a flexible quartz fiber decreased csf production effectively. this procedure may be useful in a variety of clinical conditions associated with hydrocephalus or with other intraventricular lesions.
ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis for preventing recurrence of surgically treated crohn's disease. long-term follow-up of six patients. to prevent coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection, an ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis was constructed in six patients with crohn's disease. the patients were observed for more than 7 years and were compared with 21 crohn patients in whom conventional end-to-end ileocolic anastomosis was performed during the same period. the outcome was more favorable in the group with nipple valve anastomosis, i.e., longer interval between surgery and symptomatic relapse, and tendency to less frequent recurrence and re-resection. an association was found between radiologically preserved nipple valve and remission, and two patients with intact valve at long-term follow-up remained symptom-free. the observations implied that protection of the terminal ileum from coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection for crohn's disease may favorably influence the prognosis.
an immunohistochemical evaluation of progesterone receptor in frozen sections, paraffin sections, and cytologic imprints of breast carcinomas. two monoclonal antibodies to progesterone receptor (pr), jzb39 and kd68, were used for the immunocytochemical visualization of pr in different kinds of breast cancer specimens including (1) cryostat sections of tumors frozen at -80 degrees c; (2) paraffin sections of tumors fixed in formalin or in bouin's fixative for varying periods of time at room temperature or at 4 degrees c; and (3) imprints and cryostat sections prepared from the tissue used for frozen section diagnosis and stored at -80 degrees c after fixation in zamboni's solution. sections of conventionally frozen specimens as well as imprints and cryostat sections stored for varying periods of time were stained with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique, whereas the avidin-biotin technique was used for paraffin sections. in all types of specimens the pr immunostaining was localized to the nuclei of carcinoma cells and displayed considerable heterogeneity both in intensity and in distribution of positive cells. close correspondence was found between the different immunohistochemical techniques as well as between immunostaining and steroid-binding assays. pr staining was more frequently positive in well-differentiated than in moderately or poorly differentiated carcinomas, whereas no meaningful correlation was found between pr staining and extent of the disease. similar results were obtained with the immunostaining of estrogen receptor in the same material using monoclonal antibodies h222 and d75p3 gamma. thus, by choosing the technique that best suits the type of specimen available, it is possible to obtain valid information on the receptor status of any breast carcinoma, regardless of its size and clinical presentation.
open-heart surgery in jehovah's witnesses. during a 7-year period, 11 adult members of the religious sect jehovah's witnesses underwent cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation. no homologous blood transfusions were given. blood-conserving procedures were employed, viz. initial collection of autologous blood, haemofiltration or processing (cell saver) of blood collected during extracorporeal circulation and reinfusion of shed mediastinal blood. the total perioperative blood loss averaged 1080 ml (15 ml/kg body weight), equalling 19% of total body blood volume. the mean haemoglobin on discharge from hospital was 11.0 g/100 ml. there was no perioperative mortality. postoperative pulmonary function was good and there was no serious morbidity. jehovah's witnesses with serious, surgery-necessitating heart disease can be offered operation comprising recognized blood-conserving procedures.
task-dependent variations in parkinsonian motor impairments. studies of visually-guided arm movements in patients with parkinson's disease (pd) have suggested a relationship between slowness of movement and a reduction in the ratio of movement amplitude and peak velocity. recent studies indicate, however, that pd impairments may be different for well-learned, natural movements performed without visual guidance, or movements associated with sequential motor behaviours such as speech. to address this issue, pd subjects and age/sex-matched controls were compared on the performance of three tasks, all of which required lowering the jaw: (1) single, rapid, visually-guided movements; (2) equivalent movements associated with a single speech syllable (inherently without visual guidance), and (3) well-learned speech movements produced in a natural sequence. pd subjects manifested similar deficits for visually-guided jaw lowering as those previously reported for arm movements, namely reduced velocity/amplitude ratios and increased movement durations. by contrast, analogous jaw movements during the sequential speech tasks were unimpaired on these measures. these results suggest that pd motor impairments are influenced by a variety of factors, including the degree to which tasks are familiar and natural, and the availability of visual information.
effect of epidermal growth factor in combination with sucralfate or omeprazole on the healing of chronic gastric ulcers in the rat. epidermal growth factor (egf) has been shown to enhance healing of experimental gastric ulcers when given subcutaneously or orally in the drinking water. this effect of egf occurs without reducing gastric acid secretion. on the other hand, egf reportedly is excreted rapidly from gastric lumen when administered by intragastric bolus. this suggests that further stimulation of ulcer healing may be expected if egf is given with an acid-suppressive agent or with an agent allowing egf to remain in rat gastric lumen at high concentrations. in the present study, egf administered by gastric intubation at a dose of 10 micrograms/kg, which is three times smaller than reported in previous studies, was evaluated for its effect on acetic acid-induced rat gastric ulcers in combination with sucralfate or omeprazole. sucralfate is well known selectively to bind proteins covering the ulcer base, and omeprazole is a potent acid-suppressive agent. prior to the study of combined egf and sucralfate, oral sucralfate was confirmed to allow endogenous gastric egf and mouse egf given exogenously to remain at high concentrations in gastric contents and tissues. egf and sucralfate (2 g/kg/day) given alone failed to stimulate ulcer healing in submandibularectomized rats (smr rat) whose endogenous gastric egf was depleted. however, the combination of both drugs administered at the same doses significantly accelerated ulcer healing in the smr rat. omeprazole (200 mg/kg/day) significantly enhanced ulcer healing regardless of removal of the submandibular glands. the combination of egf and omeprazole further stimulated ulcer healing in the smr rat.
diurnal differences in response to oral levodopa. diurnal differences in duration and quality of motor response to levodopa are frequently described by patients. the quality and duration of motor responses were objectively assessed to morning and afternoon oral levodopa doses in five patients with parkinsonian motor fluctuations who complained of diurnal variation in response to their normal levodopa medication. results suggest that under controlled conditions which eliminated the effects of diet and overlapping levodopa effects the response to levodopa remained unchanged throughout the day, and that the duration of response could be predicted by plasma levodopa levels.
rehabilitation in brain disorders. 2. clinical manifestations and medical issues. this self-directed learning module highlights advances in clinical manifestations of brain disorders. it is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in brain disorders for the self-directed medical knowledge program study guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. this chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. this article covers medical complications, neurobehavioral aspects, and cognitive deficits seen in patients with brain disorders, specifically seizures, hydrocephalus, heterotopic ossification, and cardiovascular/pulmonary, neuroendocrine, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, communication, motoric, and visual/spatial/sensory disorders. advances that are covered in this section are neuroendocrine complications, seizure prophylaxis, and coma treatment. the learner is directed to articles 1, 3, and 4 in this chapter for supporting information.
brain-stem auditory evoked responses in 56 patients with acoustic neurinoma. the brain-stem auditory evoked responses (baer's) recorded from 56 patients with acoustic neurinomas were analyzed. ten of the patients had intracanalicular tumors and 46 had extracanalicular tumors. it was possible to obtain baer's following stimulation of the affected side in 28 patients and after stimulation of the unaffected side in all 56. five patients (11%) had normal baer's following stimulation of both sides; three of these patients had intracanalicular tumors. among baer's obtained following stimulation of the affected ear, the mean interpeak latency (ipl) for peaks i to iii associated with extracanalicular tumors was significantly prolonged relative to controls (p less than 0.001), and linear regression analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between tumor size and ipl of peaks i to iii (p less than 0.05). analysis of the 56 baer's recorded after stimulation of the unaffected side revealed a significant positive correlation between the ipl's of peaks iii to v and tumor size (p less than 0.001). this correlation was not strengthened when accounting for the degree of brain-stem compression. finally, evidence of preserved function within the auditory pathway, even in the presence of partial hearing loss, is presented. this finding suggests that more patients might benefit from surgical procedures that spare the eighth cranial nerve.
severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage in crohn's disease. twenty-one of fifteen hundred twenty-six patients with crohn's disease (cd) treated at the mount sinai hospital between 1960 and 1986 developed severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage. there were 26 separate episodes of severe hemorrhage: 17 patients bled only once, three bled twice and one bled three times. the frequency of bleeding was significantly higher among patients with colonic involvement (17 of 929; 1.9%) than among those with small bowel disease alone (4 of 597; 0.7%) (p less than 0.001). twelve patients required surgery on 13 occasions, which involved colon resection in all but one case. eleven of these patients underwent surgery during their first hemorrhagic episodes, and 1 of 11 had a second operation for recurrent bleeding; the 12th patient, whose first hemorrhage had been treated medically, had surgery during a repeated episode of hemorrhage. the precise bleeding points could be located in only 2 of the 26 bleeding episodes, both at the ileocecal area. three patients died, of whom two had not undergone surgery when they had bled a few weeks earlier. primary bleeding episodes subsided without surgery in 10 of 21 cases, but 3 of these 10 patients (30%) rebled massively. by contrast primary excisional surgery was followed by recurrent hemorrhage in only 1 of 11 cases (9%). these differences in mortality and in recurrent bleeding rates, although not statistically significant, seem to favor removal of diseased bowel at the time of the first episode of massive hemorrhage.
appendiceal carcinoma masquerading as primary bladder carcinoma. we report 2 cases of appendiceal adenocarcinoma invading the bladder. both tumors masqueraded as primary bladder carcinomas. cystoscopic biopsies obtained adenocarcinomatous tissue and the secondary nature of the bladder lesion became apparent at laparotomy in both cases. one patient was treated with surgical resection of the appendix, the adjacent cecal wall and the bladder wall, and postoperative irradiation. she was well 10 years later. the other patient was treated with right colectomy and segmental bladder resection. she died of diffuse peritoneal recurrence 6 years later.
natural death as viewed by the medical examiner: a review of 1000 consecutive autopsies of individuals dying of natural disease. a study of 1000 consecutive autopsies of individuals dying of natural disease was conducted. cardiovascular disease was responsible for 60.9% of all deaths with coronary artery disease--not only the main cause of cardiovascular death but also the main cause of all natural deaths--accounting for 45.1% of such cases. diseases of the central nervous and respiratory systems accounted for 8.7 and 8.6%, respectively, of the natural deaths. seizure disorders and pneumonia were the main causes of death in these organ systems. there were 124 deaths of children less than one year in age, 91 of which were due to sudden infant death syndrome (sids). all of the sids deaths were in children less than 10 months old.
closure of refractory perineal crohn's lesion. integration of hyperbaric oxygen into case management. a case is reported in which a comprehensive program of hyperbaric oxygen (hbo), surgical debridement and reconstruction, and continuing medical management resulted in complete and sustained closure of an extensive perineal crohn's lesion refractory to conventional medical and surgical management. it is emphasized that in this case healing occurred in the setting of previous removal of all diseased intestinal tissue and only with the combined use of all three treatment modalities. hbo may be a useful adjunct in the therapy of large nonhealing perineal lesions post-proctocolectomy in patients who are unresponsive to metronidazole or to immunosuppressant therapy or who experience limiting side effects from continued medical therapy.
comparisons of diet and biochemical characteristics of stool and urine between chinese populations with low and high colorectal cancer rates. in an investigation of the roles of diet and stool biochemistry in human colorectal carcinogenesis, 24-hour food, urine, and stool samples were collected from randomly selected participants from two populations with a fourfold difference in colorectal cancer risk: chinese in sha giao, people's republic of china (low risk), and chinese-americans of similar ages in san francisco county, calif, in the united states (high risk). the findings supported the hypotheses that colorectal cancer risk is increased by the consumption of high-fat, high-protein, and low-carbohydrate diets and is associated with high levels of cholesterol in stool as well as increased daily outputs of 3-methyl-histidine and malonaldehyde in urine. however, risk does not increase with low stool bulk and low total stool fibers.
acral melanoma: a review of 185 patients with identification of prognostic variables. one hundred eight-five patients with acral melanoma treated since 1972 were reviewed. these included 53 subungual lesions, 123 plantar lesions, and 9 palmar lesions. eighty percent presented with stage i disease. mean age was 57 years. males outnumbered females 1.1:1. seventeen percent (17%) were blacks. actuarial 10-year survival was 58% for stage i patients and 35% for stage ii patients. univariate cox regression analyses identified 5 prognostic variables affecting survival: stage at diagnosis (p less than 0.001), race (p less than 0.001), ulceration (p = 0.012), clark's level (p = 0.014), and thickness of the primary lesion (p = 0.013). factors unrelated to survival included sex of the patient, site (volar vs. subungual), histology, and treatment with amputation. multivariate analysis for patients with stage i lesions identified race (p = 0.001) and ulceration (p = 0.018) as significant variables, with thickness approaching significance (p = 0.094). in an additional series of 71 patients with melanomas arising from extremity sites near the junction of glabrous and non-glabrous skin, survival was significantly poorer for those arising from glabrous skin (p = 0.024), and reflects a higher incidence of metastatic disease at diagnosis. specific active immunotherapy was the principal adjuvant used for these patients, and survival was comparable to that reported with regional perfusion therapy. acral melanoma a) has a strong racial predilection, b) carries a grave prognosis, and c) arises from glabrous skin. it is a clinical entity distinct from other extremity melanomas. surgical management with either wide excision or amputation is appropriate for the primary lesion.
long-term morphology of spastic or flaccid muscles in spinal cord-transected rabbits. despite difficulty in long-term maintenance of spinalized rabbits, muscular pathologic changes in chronic spinalized rabbits could be observed for a period of four weeks. rabbits were prepared by spinal cord transection at t10 (spastic paralysis) or by spinal cord removal below l7 (flaccid paralysis). spastic preparations showed hind-limb spasticity and reflex incontinence one to two days after operation. hypertrophic fibers began to appear in spastic muscles after two weeks. this hypertrophy, thought to be caused by phasic repetitive contraction, was verified by electron microscopy to be different from normal exercise hypertrophy. flaccid preparations maintained hind-limb flaccidity and overflow incontinence. in flaccid muscle, marked muscle fiber necrosis indicated rapid atrophy. spinal deformity and joint contracture inactivate spinalized rabbits, and cause pressure sores. however, feeding assistance and avoidance of complications make long-term maintenance possible.
skeletal muscle as an alternative specimen for alcohol and drug analysis. in a random group of medical examiner cases, muscle tissue, as well as blood and vitreous humor, was analyzed for ethyl alcohol, and the results were compared. when the blood concentration was greater than 0.10 g/dl, the muscle to blood ratio was 1.00 or less (average 0.94), and when the blood concentration was less than 0.10 g/dl, this ratio was greater than 1.00 (average 1.48). the author proposes that this ratio is dependent upon the time course of absorption and distribution, as has been observed for vitreous humor, but with a more rapid equilibration. muscle tissue was also analyzed in another group of cases found to be positive for one or more drugs in blood. the concentrations of the drugs in muscle varied from none detected to 6.5 times those in blood and seemed to be dependent on the time course between ingestion and death, as well as on the nature of the drug. for most common basic drugs, the ratios were often near unity. muscle is proposed as a useful alternative specimen to postmortem blood.
left ventricular diastolic dysfunction presenting as ascites: the importance of clinically assessing central venous pressure. a 66-year-old man without history of heart disease or symptoms of left ventricular (lv) failure was admitted with transudative ascites. echocardiography showed no valvular or pericardial disease and normal lv function. gated pool scintigraphy confirmed normal lv systolic function but demonstrated severe right ventricular systolic dysfunction. catheterization revealed left ventricular diastolic dysfunction as the cause of right-sided failure. the clinician evaluating transudative ascites cannot exclude lv failure on the basis of noninvasive assessment of systolic function alone. appreciation of an elevated central venous pressure remains the most important evidence of a cardiac source of ascites.
magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents: theory and application to the central nervous system. the theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging contrast agents are reviewed, and their current applications to the central nervous system (cns) and their future applications are discussed. profound differences exist between contrast agents used for mr imaging and computerized tomography (ct). in mr imaging, the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten t1 and t2 relaxation times. this in turn results in signal intensity changes. the lanthanide metal, gadolinium, in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine, has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for mr imaging. magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine. initially, it was thought that signal characteristics on mr imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology. it was soon found that mr studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them. the recent development of contrast agents for mr imaging has allowed this modality to surpass ct for the evaluation of most cns lesions. at present, contrast-enhanced mr imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas, pituitary lesions, meningeal disease, primary and secondary brain tumors, active multiple sclerosis, intradural spinal neoplasms, intramedullary spinal disease, and postoperative states in both the spine and brain. even when contrast-enhanced ct can detect the same abnormalities, evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on mr imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information, especially prior to surgery. future developments of contrast material for mr imaging include non-gadolinium compounds, intrathecal contrast media, cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation, and, possibly, antibody-labeled contrast agents.
colonoscopy during an attack of severe ulcerative colitis is a safe procedure and of great value in clinical decision making. thirty-four patients who had severe ulcerative colitis had a colonoscopic examination during the attack. the indications were resistance to therapy and/or differential diagnostic purposes. total colonoscopy was performed in 25 cases and less extensive examination in nine. biopsy was taken in 22 cases. no clinically significant complications occurred. the procedure helped us to postpone immediate surgical intervention in 19 cases. fourteen of these patients have maintenance treatment and are still well after a follow-up median time of 5 yr (6 months to 10 yr).
chronic pain in primary care. identification and management of psychosocial factors. chronic pain is a problem of great public health importance that is frequently seen in the primary care setting. pain chronicity shows a strong association with psychosocial factors. assessment of these factors should be composed of two parts: (1) psychological factors and (2) psychiatric illness. psychological factors include all those pain-associated alterations in the patient's environment that reinforce illness behavior. psychiatric illness includes those syndromes that retard recovery from illness or injury, such as depression, anxiety, substance abuse, and dementia. psychiatric and psychological interventions can be successfully introduced in the context of a comprehensive rehabilitation effort. usually these interventions can be accomplished by the family physician in concert with a consultant psychiatrist or psychologist. in severely disabled or resistant patients, referral to a multidisciplinary pain clinic will be necessary.
spreading depression-like depolarization and selective vulnerability of neurons. a brief review. if oxygen is withdrawn from rat hippocampal slices, a spreading depression-like response occurs earlier and is of larger amplitude in the ca1 area than in the dentate gyrus. after reoxygenation, recovery of synaptic transmission correlates inversely with the time spent in spreading depression. recovery occurs more frequently in dentate gyrus than in ca1. chlorpromazine and the gangliosides gm1 and agf2 promote recovery from hypoxic depression of synaptic transmission in ca1. prevention of irreversible loss of function correlates closely with a shortening of the time spent in spreading depression. if ca2+ is withdrawn before hypoxia, then synaptic function recovers upon restoration of oxygen and [ca2+]o, despite prolonged spreading depression. when spreading depression lasting more than 6-9 minutes is induced in fully oxygenated slices by superfusion with high-k+ solution, then transient recovery is followed by long-lasting loss of synaptic function. in intact brain of anesthetized rats, synaptic transmission in ca1 recovers after spreading depression-like depolarization lasting more than 30 minutes, but is lost irreversibly after 60 minutes. we conclude that entry of ca2+ into neurons caused by spreading depression-like depolarization is important in the selective vulnerability of neurons; the duration of depolarization is critical to cell survival; and in the presence of a normal blood supply, neurons resist protracted spreading depression-like depolarization.
laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy in the staging of early carcinoma of the cervix. laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed in 39 patients. an incision of the peritoneum between the round and infundibulo-pelvic ligament on each side gave access to the retroperitoneal space. subsequently, laparoscopic surgery allowed precise dissection of external and internal iliac vessels, umbilical artery, and obturator nerve. the peritoneum was left open, and the lymph was drained into the peritoneal cavity. no lymphocele was observed. three to 22 (mean, 8.7) nodes were removed, and there was no significant morbidity. sensitivity and specificity were 100% in this preliminary experience. it is thus possible to remove the first-line regional lymph nodes of the cervix for pathologic examination. because "skip" metastases are quite rare in early cervical carcinoma, the risk of missing a positive node is low. brachytherapy alone, vaginal surgery, or, in microinvasive carcinoma, conization alone can be applied safely without the need of a staging laparotomy in cases with negative nodes.
methsuximide for intractable childhood seizures. methsuximide was added to the therapeutic regimens of 25 children with intractable epilepsy. in 15 patients the drug was well tolerated and resulted in a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency. no serious or irreversible adverse effects were seen. methsuximide is frequently overlooked and may be an effective adjunctive antiepileptic for children with intractable seizures.
diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea. the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea is frequently made by taking a meticulous history coupled with a high index of suspicion. snoring and hypersomnolence are clinical features common to individuals with sleep apnea. since snoring is said to be a "disease of listeners," it is not uncommon that bed partners reported an increased incidence of depression and marital displeasure. it is for this reason that the spouse or bed partner should be interviewed, since the patient may not be aware of any sleeping problems. physicians should also be alert to complaints of excessive daytime somnolence, because studies have shown that patients with obstructive sleep apnea are at increased risk for automobile crashes. it has been estimated that approx 58,000 motor vehicle accidents involving people with sleep apnea will occur in the us each yr. by proper diagnosis and treatment, the physician is in a unique position to prevent at least some of the automobile accidents that result from falling asleep while driving. polysomnography is the only definitive way to obtain a diagnosis of sleep apnea. this allows the physician not only to diagnosis the disorder, but also helps in the evaluation of the severity of the syndrome and selection of therapy. an ent evaluation is also important in ruling out anatomic disorders that can cause upper airway obstruction. certain factors, such as alcohol and sedative ingestion, may aggravate the condition in a person predisposed to sleep apnea, and subtle changes, such as unexplained hypertension, polycythemia, and cor pulmonale, should lead one to investigate the possibility of sleep apnea as the etiology.
the large striatocapsular infarct. a clinical and pathophysiological entity. we examined 29 patients with strictly subcortical large striatocapsular infarctions. eight of them had aphasia or neglect. all patients underwent transcranial doppler ultrasonography or selective carotid angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single photon emission tomography for assessment of cerebral blood flow, blood volume, and cerebral perfusion reserve. the signs were compatible with cortical territorial infarctions rather than lacunes. on both magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic scans, the lesions corresponded to the territories of the medial and lateral group of the lenticulostriate arteries, heubner's artery, or the anterior choroidal artery. the infarctions were either due to cerebral embolization into the m1 segment of the middle cerebral artery or due to stenosis at the same site, ie, lesions that acutely and simultaneously occluded the orifices of the lenticulostriate or neighboring arteries. persistent occlusion of the middle cerebral arteries and a decrease of cortical regional cerebral blood flow were only found in patients with aphasia or neglect. all patients without aphasia or neglect showed a rapid recanalization of the middle cerebral artery occlusion or a stenosis of the m1 segment and no cortical regional cerebral blood flow decrease. large striatocapsular infarctions occur due to occlusive disease of the middle cerebral artery (large-vessel disease) and not due to a disseminated in situ occlusion of the long penetrating arteries (small-vessel disease), as in lacunes. neuropsychological deficits can be explained by decreased cortical blood flow due to a persistent occlusive lesion of the middle cerebral artery.
acute pulmonary embolism triggered by the act of defecation. pulmonary embolism associated with the act of defecation has not been previously well described. recently, we reported our experience with four patients who presented to us over a 12-month period with syncope, near syncope, or sudden death following the act of defecation. in all four cases, acute pulmonary embolism was shown to be the etiology of the defecation-associated events. a retrospective chart review of all patients with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism at our institution over a three-year period yielded five additional patients with the diagnosis of defecation-associated pulmonary embolism. these nine patients accounted for 6.8 percent of all patients with a discharge diagnosis of pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the three-year study period. six of the nine patients died from their defecation-associated pulmonary embolism. these six deaths accounted for 25 percent of all deaths from pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the study period. based on our experience, we suggest that the act of defecation may trigger the development of acute pulmonary embolism in some patients with deep vein thrombosis.
use and misuse of oral therapy for diarrhea: comparison of us practices with american academy of pediatrics recommendations. to determine how closely us pediatricians follow the 1985 american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition's recommendations on oral therapy for acute diarrhea, a questionnaire was administered to four groups: new england private practitioners, pediatricians from 27 states attending a postgraduate course, representatives of departments of pediatrics at us schools of medicine, and housestaff at boston children's and massachusetts general hospitals. the responses from departments of pediatrics and housestaff were not significantly different from those of community practitioners in most categories. the reported rate of use of glucose-electrolyte solutions recommended by the american academy of pediatrics was not different from the use of nonphysiologic, high-osmolar, low-salt solutions such as sodas and juices. the usage rate for glucose-electrolyte solutions meeting the american academy of pediatrics-recommended carbohydrate-to-sodium ratio of less than 2:1 was less than 30%. other findings included the general lack of agreement on the use of a single type of therapy and the common use of oral therapy only for mild or no dehydration. although the american academy of pediatrics recommends that feeding be reintroduced in the first 24 hours of a diarrheal episode, the majority of respondents withhold feeding until the second day or later. these findings indicate that educational programs on oral therapy during acute diarrhea are needed in the united states.
an electron and optical microscopic study of juxtaposed odontogenic keratocyst and carcinoma. odontogenic keratocyst and squamous cell carcinoma commonly occur within the oral cavity; however, the juxtaposition of these lesions is rare. the light microscopic and ultrastructural features of such an event are reported. although some morphologic similarities between the cyst and tumor were observed, definitive evidence of a common origin was not obtained.
bolus versus infusion regimens of etoposide and cisplatin in treatment of non-small cell lung cancer: a study of the north central cancer treatment group in an effort to test clinically the hypothesis that the duration of cellular exposure to etoposide (vp-16) and cisplatin (cddp) is an important determinant of cytotoxicity, we performed a phase iii randomized trial comparing an outpatient bolus regimen of combined vp-16 and cddp with a sequential infusion over 72 hours of these same two drugs. all patients had stage iv non-small cell lung cancer, and survival was the primary end point. of 113 patients randomly allocated to the study, 108 were assessable for response, survival, and toxicity. a major response was observed in 20 (37%) of 54 patients on the bolus regimen and in 16 (30%) of 54 patients receiving infusion therapy. the median time to progression was 61 and 88 days for bolus and infusion therapy, respectively. the median survival time was 148 and 157 days, respectively (p = .71). study results were not consistent with the possibility that infusion therapy could be associated with a 50% improvement in median survival, i.e. from 5 months to 7 1/2 months. toxicity was primarily myelosuppression and was significantly greater with the infusion regimen. we conclude that infusion therapy as tested in this protocol with vp-16 and cddp does not offer any advantage in response rate, time to disease progression, or survival as compared with bolus therapy. in addition, infusion therapy is associated with a greater degree of neutropenia and more treatment-related deaths.
one hundred percent oxygen reverses muscle hypoxia in a rat hindlimb model of acute arterial occlusion. significant morbidity results from extremity ischemia after acute arterial occlusion. reestablishment of arterial flow is considered to be the ideal treatment, yet substantial tissue loss can occur before this is accomplished. using a rat hindlimb model we investigated whether the administration of 100% oxygen would decrease tissue hypoxia from acute arterial occlusion. adult male sprague-dawley rats were used, and po2 recordings were taken from the gastrocnemius muscle by use of an oxygen electrode. baseline muscle po2 was recorded, and then the femoral artery was occluded. repeat recordings were made after 20 minutes of ventilation with room air and after an additional 20 minutes of ventilation with 100% oxygen (n = 10). control groups consisted of animals undergoing occlusion but continued on room air (n = 3) and animals undergoing sham occlusion but receiving the period of 100% oxygen ventilation (n = 3). femoral artery occlusion produced a reduction in muscle po2 from 28.0 +/- 1.4 to 6.1 +/- 2.0 (mean +/- sem, p less than 0.001). ventilation with 100% oxygen reversed the tissue hypoxia produced by occlusion (27.3 +/- 2.0, p less than 0.001). the administration of 100% oxygen without femoral artery occlusion resulted in a higher tissue po2 than the occluded + oxygen group (94 +/- 12 vs 27.3 +/- 2.0, p less than 0.001). mean arterial blood pressure increased in the experimental group concomitant with the administration of 100% oxygen, but there was no correlation between final blood pressure and final tissue oxygen tension.
hepatomuscular failure in septic catabolism: altered muscular response to plasma proteolytic factor in decreased hepatic mitochondrial redox potential. to estimate the contribution of muscle protein in whole-body protein catabolism, the muscular contribution index (mci; urine 3-methylhistidine/urine total nitrogen) was determined in 49 cases of elective laparotomy, together with the arterial blood ketone body ratio (kbr; acetoacetate/beta-hydroxybutyrate), which reflects hepatic mitochondrial redox potential. mci increased after operation and the occurrence of severe infection, provided kbr was maintained above 0.7. in patients with sepsis, however, mci decreased dependently with kbr (n = 33; p less than 0.01). in these patients, plasma proteolysis-inducing activity determined by in vitro bioassay increased in inverse proportion to kbr (n = 20, p less than 0.01). moreover, plasma concentrations of not only aromatic but also branched-chain amino acids markedly increased when kbr decreased to below 0.4 (n = 23; p less than 0.05). thus the role of muscle protein in septic catabolism is diminished under reduced hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, despite the rapid increase of proteolysis-inducing activity. this finally leads to the failure of amino acid uptake by muscles, as well as liver. these results suggest that the deteriorated substrate exchange may form the metabolic background for multiple systems organ failure, which is often preceded by reduced kbr.
dural spinal cord arteriovenous malformation. after multiple hospital admissions and an inpatient rehabilitation stay, a 68-year-old woman was transferred to our rehabilitation facility with a paraparesis of unknown etiology. previous studies included four ct scans and three mris which did not demonstrate the lesion. a myelogram was noncharacteristic. the correct diagnosis, confirmed by selective angiography, was ultimately contingent upon recognition of the clinical features and natural history of dural spinal cord arteriovenous malformations (scavm). the unusual combination of this multitude of nondiagnostic imaging studies in the uncommon dural scavm served to delay diagnosis and treatment. such delay may have great functional consequences. this report illustrates the importance of suspecting scavm and recognizing its features. emphasis is placed on the physiatrist's role in assuring proper diagnosis to expedite a timely treatment and to obtain the best functional outcome. a brief review of the classification, clinical features, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and prognosis of scavm is presented.
chilaiditi's syndrome. a diagnostic challenge. chilaiditi's syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of abdominal and chest pain. although interposition of the right colon is a relatively common radiologic finding, there is a distinct paucity of information in the medical literature. chilaiditi's syndrome is usually asymptomatic, but when symptoms occur, conservative treatment is usually effective. recognition is important because this syndrome can be mistaken for more serious abnormalities, which may lead to unnecessary surgical intervention.
nd:yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas. forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor. the 1.32 microns nd:yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments. tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd:yag-laser. this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half. the nd:yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20% to zero. the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76% of the patients. the use of the 1.32 microns nd:yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma.
colon carcinoma associated with ureterosigmoidostomy. a patient developing a colonic adenoma 38 years following ureterosigmoidostomy is presented. the mechanisms of neoplastic transformation associated with ureterosigmoidostomy is now better understood. this knowledge is being applied to develop modifications both of the surgical technique and the management of patients with this form of urinary diversion, and is a subject of discussion.
clinical cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is a powerful tool providing high-resolution images of the heart and great vessels without the use of ionizing radiation or contrast agents. mri systems currently in use at many hospitals can be used effectively in the routine, clinical evaluation of many forms of cardiovascular disease, including great vessel disease, ischemic cardiac disease and congenital cardiac disease. moreover, quantitative and cine mri techniques are now available, which provide highly accurate measures of chamber size, wall motion and wall thickening. recent developments in the areas of myocardial tagging, high-speed imaging and mr assessments of flow and perfusion suggest potential for an increasing role of mri in the clinical evaluation of the cardiovascular system.
nonoperative management of bile duct stones. the treatment of choice for most retained bile duct stones is by nonoperative means. if a t-tube is in place, percutaneous techniques via the t-tract are indicated. percutaneous access via puncture of a roux-en-y loop is also practical. in the absence of a t-tube, retrograde endoscopic techniques should be used. both techniques are very effective and safe. stones in the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts also can be treated nonoperatively. endoscopic sphincterotomy has a role in the treatment of selected patients with gallstone pancreatitis, acute cholangitis, and choledocholithiasis with in situ gallbladders. in difficult cases, endoscopic and percutaneous techniques are employed in combination.
gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 in salivary gland tumors. gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 (gcdfp-15) is a 15-kd glycoprotein that is expressed by normal apocrine epithelia and in a majority of breast carcinomas. however, recent studies have demonstrated that this substance is also present in tumors of the salivary glands, sweat glands, and prostate gland. to determine whether the expression of cgdfp-15 might aid in the differential diagnosis of salivary gland lesions, the anti-gcdfp-15 monoclonal antibody d6 was applied to paraffin sections of 133 such neoplasms. benign tumors (76% reactive) were more often labeled than malignant lesions (28% reactive) by this antibody; overall, 53 (41%) of 133 cases were positive for gcdfp-15. notably, the tubuloglandular components in 17 (81%) of 21 pleomorphic adenomas were reactive, but no example of either adenoid cystic carcinoma or polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma were labeled. in contrast, 24% of adenocarcinomas stained with this antibody. the apparent expression of gcdfp-15 by a spectrum of salivary gland tumors supports their biologic relationship to lesions of the cutaneous apocrine glands and breast. furthermore, the demonstration of this determinant may be of use in suggesting the salivary gland nature of poorly differentiated carcinomas of the head and neck, and it may facilitate the separation of pleomorphic adenoma from histologically similar malignant neoplasms in the salivary glands themselves.
modification of atrioventricular node transmission properties by intraoperative neodymium-yag laser photocoagulation in dogs. the purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet (nd-yag) laser photocoagulation of the atrioventricular (av) node to control the ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms without creating av block. in 12 dogs on normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass, short laser pulses were delivered to an area between the coronary sinus orifice and the site of the most proximally recorded his deflection until second degree av block occurred at a paced atrial rate of 200 beats/min. long-term effects on av node function were followed up for 3 months. three animals developed chronic high grade av block. in nine animals with preserved 1:1 conduction, the mean (+/- sem) critical atrial cycle length resulting in av node wenckebach periodicity increased from 183 +/- 6 to 261 +/- 24 ms (+43%), the mean rr interval during induced atrial fibrillation increased from 248 +/- 14 to 330 +/- 27 ms (+32%) and the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation increased from 215 +/- 11 to 275 +/- 20 ms (+28%). laser effects were not reversed by isoproterenol infusion. histologic examination of the irradiated area showed fibrotic changes in the av node and fatty metamorphosis. this study suggests that 1) graded nd-yag laser photocoagulation of the av node region in dogs results in long-term modification of anterograde av node transmission properties; 2) 1:1 conduction during sinus rhythm usually remains preserved, but ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms is chronically reduced; and 3) progression to high grade av block occurs in a minority of animals.
probe angioplasty of total coronary occlusion using the probing catheter technique. coronary angioplasty (ptca) of total coronary occlusion is limited by the inability of guidewires and conventional dilating catheters to cross all such lesions. a new technique was therefore prospectively evaluated for ptca of these lesions using the ultra-low-profile probe "balloon on a wire" device. an intracoronary probing catheter was used to facilitate crossing the stenosis with a guidewire and then to deliver a probe into the obstruction for balloon dilatation. this technique was utilized in 64 consecutive patients with "absolute" coronary occlusions demonstrating no angiographically detectable antegrade coronary flow. successful dilatation was achieved in 47 (73%). among 33 occlusions of less than 3 mo duration 31 (94%) were successfully dilated whereas only 16 of 31 more chronic occlusions were dilated (p less than .01). chronic occlusions with a tapered morphology and those located more than 1 cm from a branch point were more frequently dilatable. there were no serious complications including no vessel perforations with this technique. the probing catheter technique offers a safe and effective method for the dilatation of recent coronary occlusions by using balloon on a wire technology.
7th nerve palsy after extradural blood patch. we describe a patient who developed a 7th cranial nerve palsy following an extradural blood patch; full recovery followed. the likely aetiology is discussed.
hepatic injury associated with small bowel bacterial overgrowth in rats is prevented by metronidazole and tetracycline. susceptible rat strains develop hepatobiliary injury following the surgical creation of self-filling blind loops that cause small bowel bacterial overgrowth. luminal bacteria or their cell wall polymers were implicated in the pathogenesis of the lesions because sham-operated rats and rats with self-emptying blind loops, having only slightly increased bacterial counts, did not develop hepatic injury. in this study, antibiotics with different spectra of activities were continuously administered starting 1 day or 22 days after surgery to determine which intestinal flora may be responsible for the development of hepatic injury in rats with small bowel bacterial overgrowth. four weeks following surgery, lewis rats with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics had elevated liver histology scores (8.2 +/- 1.3 vs. 0.7 +/- 0.4) and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels (269 +/- 171 vs. 84 +/- 24) compared with sham-operated rats, p less than 0.001. oral gentamicin as well as oral and intraperitoneal polymyxin b, which binds endotoxin, did not prevent hepatic injury in rats with self-filling blind loops. however, oral metronidazole and tetracycline therapy continuously administered beginning 1 day after surgery diminished hepatic injury (histology score 3.0 +/- 1.8, 2.9 +/- 1.1; aspartate aminotransferase 87 +/- 25, 98 +/- 34; respectively p less than 0.001 compared with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics). metronidazole also protected wistar rats that require 12 weeks to develop hepatic injury following experimentally induced small bowel bacterial overgrowth compared with rats with self-filling blind loops that received no antibiotic treatment (histology score 10.4 +/- 1.3 vs. 0.7 +/- 1.1, and aspartate aminotransferase 273 +/- 239 vs. 76 +/- 20, p less than 0.001). when rats started metronidazole therapy 22 days after self-filling blind loop surgery, elevated aspartate aminotransferase values decreased to normal during the next 77 days and final histology scores were normal. all rats with self-filling blind loops had negative peritoneal, liver, spleen, and blood cultures but approximately 75% of mesenteric lymph node cultures were positive irrespective of antibiotic treatment. because bacteroides species have been implicated in causing vitamin b12 and disaccharidase deficiencies in rats with self-filling blind loops, we documented the presence or absence of these organisms from blind loops using selective culture techniques. metronidazole and tetracycline eliminated bacteroides sp. from blind loops, but polymyxin b and gentamicin did not.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
a phase i clinical, plasma, and cellular pharmacology study of gemcitabine. a novel deoxycytidine analog, gemcitabine (2',2'-difluorodeoxycytidine [dfdc]), has been studied in a phase i clinical and pharmacology trial. doses ranging from 10 to 1,000 mg/m2 were administered over 30 minutes weekly times 3 weeks every 4 weeks. the maximum-tolerated dose (mtd) was 790 mg/m2. the dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression, with thrombocytopenia and anemia quantitatively more important than granulocytopenia. nonhematologic toxicity was minimal. two responses in patients with adenocarcinomas of the colon and lung were documented. the maximum dfdc plasma concentration, reached after 15 minutes of infusion, was proportional to the total dose administered. elimination, due mainly to deamination, was rapid (terminal half-life [t1/2], 8.0 minutes) and dose independent. the deamination product 2',2'-difluorodeoxyuridine (dfdu) was eliminated with biphasic kinetics characterized by a long terminal phase (t1/2, 14 hours); it was the sole metabolite detected in urine. the concentration of dfdc 5'-triphosphate in circulating mononuclear cells increased in proportion to the dfdc dose at infusions between 35 and 250 mg/m2. no further increment in dfdc 5'-triphosphate (dfdctp) was observed at higher doses, which resulted in plasma dfdc concentrations greater than 20 mumol/l (350 to 1,000 mg/m2), suggesting saturation of dfdc 5'-phosphate accumulation. the recommended dose for phase ii clinical trials in solid tumors is 790 mg/m2/wk.
brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. we compared brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic performance in 20 neurologically asymptomatic patients suffering from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (mean age 41 [range 18-49] years) and 20 age-matched controls (mean age 38 [range 28-49] years). patients exhibited a significantly higher rate of cerebral infarcts (20% versus 0%, p less than 0.05) and cortical (50% versus 5%, p less than 0.01) and ventricular (55% versus 15%, p less than 0.02) atrophy than controls. accordingly, semiquantitative volumetric measurements yielded a significantly increased ventricular-to-intracranial cavity ratio in the patients (6.2 +/- 2.9% versus 4.1 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.01). this ratio and the cortical atrophy ratings correlated positively with disease duration (r = 0.63 and 0.54, p less than 0.05). cognitive test performance was significantly worse in patients than in controls and was most impaired in those patients with morphologic cerebral abnormalities.
chronic functional gastrointestinal symptoms in holocaust survivors. in nazi-occupied europe (1939-1945), jews were submitted to extreme mental and physical hardships (the holocaust). this study was designed to investigate the impact of the severe protracted suffering on the development of chronic functional gastrointestinal symptoms. thus, we studied 623 consecutive patients of eastern european origin who had been admitted for nongastrointestinal complaints. they filled out detailed questionnaires, and were divided into the following two groups: a) holocaust survivors [237 subjects who had been for at least 6 months in either german concentration/extermination camps (95 subjects), ghetto and/or underground movements (65 subjects), labor camps not directly supervised by germans (79 subjects)], and b) a control group (384 subjects from the same demographic background, who had not been exposed to nazi persecutions). the symptoms investigated were the following: abdominal pain, irregular bowel habits, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal distension, heartburn, flatulence, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, mucus in stool, tenesmus, and aerophagia. patients were defined as having functional symptoms after these had been present for at least 5 yr and relevant organic disease had been excluded. the prevalence, duration of suffering, and frequency of appearance of most symptoms were significantly higher in the group of holocaust survivors. this study supports the clinical observations that severe and protracted suffering contributes to the development of chronic functional gastrointestinal symptomatology.
time to recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis after curative resection of adrenal tumors in patients with cushing's syndrome. the recovery time of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (hpa) axis after curative resection of adrenal tumors in patients with cushing's syndrome is poorly documented. eight consecutive patients were treated with a standardized hydrocortisone replacement strategy after curative resection of a cortisol-secreting tumor and the time to recovery of the hpa axis was determined. hypercortisolism was documented by elevated 24-hour urinary free cortisol levels. cure was documented by undetectable postoperative morning serum cortisol levels. each patient received replacement hydrocortisone after surgery and was reevaluated every 3 to 6 months with an adrenocorticotrophic hormone (acth) stimulation test. each patient was also monitored carefully for symptoms and signs of adrenal insufficiency, which was defined as symptoms consistent with this diagnosis that responded to increases in hydrocortisone levels. after surgical resection, each patient was cured of hypercortisolism. subsequently, despite replacement hydrocortisone, each patient had symptoms of hypocortisolism, and in four of eight patients the dose of hydrocortisone was increased to relieve the symptoms. patients required a median time of 15 months (range, 9 to 22 months) to recover a normal acth stimulation test and 19 months (range, 12 to 24 months) to allow discontinuation of replacement doses of hydrocortisone. the results suggest that surgical resection of a cortisol-secreting adrenal tumor will result in rapid cure of hypercortisolism, but complete recovery of the hpa axis and discontinuation of replacement steroids will require between 1 and 2 years. normal adrenal function, as assessed by the cortisol response to acth, returns despite replacement doses of hydrocortisone, and replacement doses of hydrocortisone can be tapered rapidly or discontinued after a normal acth stimulation test.
thermographic findings in cranio-facial pain. this work assesses the differences in the thermographic findings in the craniofacial and neck areas between normal individuals and patients with craniofacial pain or headache, and investigates the influence of muscle contraction on such findings. thermographic records were taken in 10 healthy subjects and 47 patients suffering from craniofacial pain or headache of different kinds. in the patients with painful episodes the record was taken between attacks. in all the normal subjects and in 19 patients lateral thermograms were also taken during and after maximal tooth clenching for three minutes. the majority of the patients, as compared to the normal group, showed some thermal alterations and asymmetry. such alterations seem to be due both to vascular instability and muscle contraction: these two factors may be variably superimposed in the different conditions. in patients with cluster headache or chronic paroxysmal hemicrania the presence on the symptomatic side of a cold spot along the supraorbital area and/or the inner orbital canthus, was a constant finding. we conclude that thermography is useful as an additional diagnostic means in patients with head and face pain, and that the clenching test may increase the amount of information provided.
molecular analysis of acute promyelocytic leukemia breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 17. acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl; fab m3) is characterized by a predominance of malignant promyelocytes that carry a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17, t(15;17) (q22;q11.2-q12). this translocation has become diagnostic for apl, as it is present in almost 100 percent of cases. a not i linking clone was used to detect this translocation initially on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and subsequently with conventional southern (dna) analysis. the breakpoints in ten apl cases examined were shown to cluster in a 12-kb region of chromosome 17, containing two cpg-rich islands. the region is the first intron of the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene (rara).
management of superficial g2 (pta and pt1) bladder cancer. a total of 143 patients with superficial g2 (pta, pt1) bladder cancer (48 g2pta; 95 g2pt1) presenting between 1970 through 1987 were reviewed. of 48 patients with g2pta followed for up to eighteen years, g3 recurrence developed only in 1 (2.0%), and invasive cancer (greater than pt2) developed only in 2 (4.2%). they both received radiotherapy and have responded completely. there have been no cancer-related deaths. in contrast, in the 95 patients in whom the basement membrane had been breached (pt1), higher grade tumor (g3) developed in 11 (11.5%), and 15 (16%) had recurrences with invasion of muscle (greater than pt2). among these there were 7 (7.3%) cancer-related deaths.
contiguous enlarged dental follicles with histologic features resembling the who type of odontogenic fibroma defective odontogenesis and/or retarded eruption of teeth can be associated with histologic features akin to odontogenic fibroma in the dental follicles. unerupted mandibular premolar and molar teeth of a 24-year-old man were surgically exposed, yet the teeth failed to erupt. about a year and a half later, radiographs indicated further enlargement of the follicle of the premolar, and both teeth were subsequently surgically removed. histologically, the follicles were composed of mature collagenous tissue among which epithelial islands and numerous clusters of calcified bodies were present. indirect immunofluorescence showed positive staining for type i and type iii collagen, which exhibited a sparse distribution, but not for the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen. the hamartomatous nature of the lesions is discussed with emphasis on their histologic resemblance to the who type of odontogenic fibroma.
association of hepatitis b surface antigen and core antibody with acquisition and manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infection. we examined the associations between seropositivity for hepatitis b virus (hbv) with the presence or development of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus (hiv-1) and with hiv-1 induced t-helper lymphocyte deficiency or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). serologic data on hbv and hiv-1, cytometric enumeration of cd4+ lymphocytes, clinical events (aids by centers for disease control criteria) and hepatitis b vaccination histories were available on 4,498 homosexual participants in the multicenter aids cohort study, men were classified as to previous infection with hbv and prevalent or incident infection with hiv-1. although there was an association between seropositivity for hbv infection and hiv-1 infection at enrollment (odds ratios anti-hbc 2.6; hbsag 4.2), the relation between hbv seropositivity and subsequent seroconversion to hiv-1 was weaker (odds ratios 1.3 and 1.6). hiv-1 seroconversion was also associated with a history of certain other sexually transmitted diseases, but predisposing sexual practices did not account for the association between hbv and hiv-1 infection. seropositivity for hbv infection at entry was not related to initially low or more rapid subsequent decline in t-helper lymphocyte counts and was not associated with an increased incidence of aids during 2.5 years of follow-up. history of vaccination against hbv did not appear to decrease susceptibility to hiv-1 infection or to subsequent progression of immunodeficiency. we conclude that prior hbv infection is unlikely to be specifically associated with acquisition of hiv-1 infection and is unrelated to more rapid progression of hiv-1-induced immunodeficiency.
prognostic factors in craniofacial surgery. from 1979 to 1989, 21 patients underwent craniofacial resection for malignancies involving the anterior skull base. histologic types included 8 squamous cell carcinomas, 3 chondrosarcomas, 2 melanomas, 2 basal cell carcinomas, 2 adenocarcinomas, 2 poorly differentiated carcinomas, 1 malignant schwannoma, and 1 malignant hemangiopericytoma. survival was 57%, with follow-up of 41 months. a 50% complication rate included osteomyelitis, cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, meningitis, brain abscess, epidural abscess, and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. recurrent disease occurred in 9 patients (41%), the most reliable predictor being dural invasion indicated preoperatively by ct scan or at operation. patients demonstrating dural involvement (n = 9) had a 22% survival rate, while patients without (n = 12) had a survival rate of 83%. the impact of dural invasion on long-term survival is emphasized. though complications were frequent, long-term results were favorable.
introduction: nutritional aspects of palm oil. the production, composition, and food uses of palm oil are outlined in this introduction to a detailed appraisal of the nutritional and health implications of the use of palm oil in the food supply. the putative role of dietary fats and oils in general, and of palm oil in particular, in the etiology of coronary heart disease and cancer is critically assessed. it is concluded that the evidence available is difficult to interpret unambiguously. some evidence to suggest that the minor components of palm oil might have useful biological effects is also discussed.
nb4, a maturation inducible cell line with t(15;17) marker isolated from a human acute promyelocytic leukemia (m3). acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl) is a well-defined entity among acute leukemia, cytogenetically characterized by a t(15;17) (q22;q11-12) translocation. in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that all-trans retinoic acid (ra) treatment restores cell maturation. we have isolated the first permanent cell line with t(15;17), derived from the marrow of a patient with apl in relapse. the establishment of the cell line, its morphologic, karyotypic, and immunohistochemical features are reported. ra induced cell line maturation. cells strongly expressed myeloid markers, but also some t-cell markers. additional karyotypic abnormalities, a 12p rearrangement and the possible presence of a homogeneous staining region (hsr) on 19q+ are discussed both in relation to t-cell (cd2, cd4) and monocyte (cd9) markers, and to the acquired cell growth autonomy. the cell line represents a remarkable tool for biomolecular studies.
chemical peritonitis secondary to intraperitoneal vancomycin. although previously reported in the literature, the existence of chemical peritonitis due to vancomycin in patients on peritoneal dialysis remains controversial. we report four similar episodes of sterile peritonitis in three patients receiving intraperitoneal (ip) vancomycin. the prior report implicated a change in the brand of vancomycin preparation, from vancocin to vancoled, as a contributing factor. we noted the occurrence of such episodes following a switch from vancocin to a generic preparation from abbott laboratories. high-performance liquid chromatographic (hplc) profiles of the three preparations show vancocin to have a lower level of impurities than the other two; the presence of certain contaminants in the other brands may be contributing to the clinical difference observed. we conclude that chemical peritonitis due to ip vancomycin administration does occur, and that increased awareness of this entity could allow other cases to be identified.
interferon-alpha produces sustained cytogenetic responses in chronic myelogenous leukemia. philadelphia chromosome-positive patients. objectives: to evaluate the frequency and the course of complete cytogenetic responses in interferon-alpha (ifn-alpha)-treated patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. design: two prospective trials in consecutive patients. setting: a major tertiary cancer center. patients: ninety-six consecutive patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia with disease duration of less than 1 year. intervention: patients received partially pure ifn-alpha intramuscularly, from 3 to 9 million u/d (51 patients) or recombinant ifn-alpha 2a (roferon, hoffmann-laroche, inc., nutley, new jersey), 5 million u/m2 body surface area daily (45 patients). measurements: hematologic and cytogenetic tests were administered. main results: seventy of the patients (73%) achieved hematologic remission (95% ci, 63% to 81%), and 18 (19%) had complete suppression of the philadelphia chromosome on at least one cytogenetic test. a complete cytogenetic response was induced in 7 of 51 or 14% (ci, 6% to 26%) of the patients treated with the partially pure ifn-alpha and in 11 of 45 or 24% (ci, 13% to 40%) of the patients treated with recombinant ifn-alpha 2a. the difference in complete cytogenetic response between the two groups was 10.7% (ci, - 5% to 26%; p greater than 0.2). eleven patients had durable, ongoing, complete cytogenetic responses from 6 to more than 45 months (median, more than 30 months). conclusion: this study was the first to show sustained, complete cytogenetic responses in a subset of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia treated with single-agent therapy. the nature of this remission, that is, whether it depends on continuous therapy, requires further study.
impact of day care on dementia patients--costs, well-being and relatives' views. forty-seven patients in psychogeriatric day centre were analysed regarding use of resources, costs and well-being. the level of well-being was based on interviews with staff and relatives and related to the economic outcome--a cost utility analysis. a 6 month period prior to day care was compared with the first 6 months in such care. the use of resources at home increased by 20% while the use of institutional care was reduced by 22%. fifty-three percent of the patients improved in their well-being after participation in day care. when the cost of utility analysis was applied, the cost for a well-year was 4293 pounds.
acute renal dysfunction during interleukin-2 treatment: suggestion of an intrinsic renal lesion. adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (il-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells has been effective in treating some advanced malignancies in animals and humans. one complication of this treatment is a reversible, oliguric, acute renal failure, which has been ascribed to renal hypoperfusion and resultant prerenal azotemia. we serially studied renal function in 10 patients receiving high-dose regimens of recombinant interleukin-2 (ril-2) to attempt to delineate further the nature of the renal dysfunction caused by il-2 treatment. renal plasma flow was computed from iodine 131 (i-131 hippuran; mediphysics, paramus, nj) orthoiodohippurate, excretion curves, and glomerular filtration rate (gfr) was determined by creatinine clearance. studies done prior to and on day 4 of treatment showed that gfr fell in nine of 10 patients, with a mean decrease of 43% +/- 8%, and renal plasma flow fell in five of the 10 patients with a mean decrease of 5% +/- 10%. the average pretherapy filtration fraction was calculated to be 23% +/- 1% and after 4 days of treatment, decreased to a mean value of 15 +/- 2%. the bun to creatinine ratio also declined in all patients. these findings collectively suggest that il-2 nephrotoxicity may result from an intrarenal defect in addition to the previously described prerenal azotemia. additionally, radionuclide studies of renal function are a reliable and reproducible noninvasive method of assessing these changes in renal function.
heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction in conscious dogs at high and low risk of sudden death. heart rate variability has been demonstrated both experimentally and clinically to be of prognostic importance in determining mortality after myocardial infarction. however, no paired studies have been reported to examine heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction. the hypothesis was tested that low values of heart rate variability provided risk assessment both before and after myocardial infarction with use of an established canine model of sudden cardiac death. risk for sudden death was assessed 1 month after myocardial infarction by a protocol in which exercise and myocardial ischemia were combined; dogs that developed ventricular fibrillation were classified at high risk for sudden death (susceptible) and the survivors were considered low risk (resistant). in resistant dogs, myocardial infarction did not affect any measure of heart rate variability: 1) mean rr interval, 2) standard deviation of the mean rr interval, and 3) the coefficient of variance (standard deviation/rr interval). by contrast, after myocardial infarction, susceptible dogs showed significant decrease in all measures of heart rate variability. before myocardial infarction, no differences were seen between susceptible and resistant dogs. however, 30 days after infarction, epidemiologic analysis of the coefficient of variance showed high sensitivity and specificity (88% and 80%, respectively), predicting susceptibility. therefore, results of analysis of 30 min of beat to beat heart period at rest 30 days after myocardial infarction are highly predictive for increased risk of sudden death.
multiple organ failure: inflammatory priming and activation sequences promote autologous tissue injury. systemic inflammation promotes multiple organ failure through the induction of diffuse microvascular leak. inflammatory cells such as neutrophils propagate this process. tissue injury by neutrophils may be viewed as a normal process, inflammation, that has become uncontrolled and generalized. multiple inflammatory stimuli synergistically promote neutrophil-mediated tissue injury in priming and activation sequences. in some settings, cellular priming is mediated by platelet-activating factor and can be prevented by platelet-activating factor antagonists. inhibiting cellular priming could be efficacious in the therapy of multiple organ failure.
endoscopic management of postoperative biliary leaks: review of 77 cases and report of two cases with biloma formation. biliary leaks are uncommon complications of abdominal surgery. left untreated, they may result in significant morbidity and mortality. the traditional treatment has been surgical, but several authors have reported successful endoscopic management. we review 77 cases of endoscopically managed postoperative biliary leaks reported in the literature over the past 15 yr. endoscopic treatment was technically successful in 95% of cases, and resulted in biliary leak healing in 82%. cystic stump leaks had a better prognosis for healing compared with common bile duct or hepatic duct leaks. we also present two additional cases of postoperative biliary leaks with biloma formation successfully treated with endoscopic stent placement. our experience lends additional support to endoscopic management as the preferred approach to postoperative biliary leaks.
the association of selected cancers with service in the us military in vietnam. iii. hodgkin's disease, nasal cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, and primary liver cancer. the selected cancers cooperative study group as part of a series of investigations into the health of vietnam veterans, we conducted case-control studies involving 310 men with hodgkin's disease, 48 with nasal carcinoma, 80 with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, 130 with primary liver cancer, and 1776 controls between 1984 and 1988. all men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible as cases; controls were recruited by random-digit dialing. whereas the study had excellent power (96%) to detect a twofold increase in risk for hodgkin's disease among vietnam veterans, its ability to detect a similarly elevated risk in the other cancers was limited, ranging from 38% (nasal carcinoma) to 75% (primary liver cancer). analyses showed that risks among vietnam veterans relative to other men were 1.1 (hodgkin's disease), 0.7 (nasal carcinoma), 0.5 (nasopharyngeal carcinoma), and 1.2 (primary liver cancer). none of these relative risks was significantly different from 1.0. similar results were obtained if vietnam veterans were compared with (1) other veterans or (2) men who never served in the military. an examination of several attributes of military service in vietnam (eg, branch, duration of service, and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of agent orange) failed to identify any groups of veterans who were at increased risk for hodgkin's disease. small numbers limited further analyses of nasal, nasopharyngeal, and liver cancer. these results provide no evidence that, 15 to 25 years following service in vietnam, the risk of these malignant neoplasms is higher among veterans.
elevated serum bromide concentrations following repeated halothane anaesthesia in a child. a 20-month-old child received 25 brief halothane general anaesthetics over a five-week period to allow cranial irradiation treatments for a posterior fossa ependymoma. personality change during the last week of the treatment protocol raised the question of possible bromide intoxication. serum bromide concentrations, using a gold chloride assay technique, were monitored at that time, and at four- and six-week intervals thereafter. serum bromide concentrations demonstrated a four-fold change during this period ranging from peak levels of 2.2 meq.l-1 (176 micrograms.kg-1) during the fifth week of treatment decreasing to less than 0.5 meq.l-1 (less than 40 micrograms.ml-1) six weeks following the end of treatments. this demonstrates the possibility for repetitive, short halothane exposures to result in elevations of serum bromide and the potential of bromide intoxication in paediatric neuro-oncology patients.
acute psychosis. functional versus organic. acute psychosis is a true emergency and is a manifestation of multiple organic and functional disorders. the emergency medicine physician's role in dealing with the acutely psychotic patient is to control the patient's behavior, to delineate the etiology of the psychosis, and to provide appropriate initial treatment and disposition. when making initial contact with the psychotic patient, behavioral control can be accomplished through supportive, physical, or pharmacologic interventions. judicious use of rapid tranquilization permits rapid control of these patients when supportive and other nonpharmacologic therapies fail. initial examination is directed at identifying immediate life-threatening organic disorders and promptly treating them. historical data, mental status examination, physical examination, and appropriate radiologic and laboratory investigations give information that assist in delineating functional from organic psychosis. most acute organic psychoses, with the exception of some drug intoxications that clear in the emergency department, require medical or surgical admission. acute functional psychotic patients who are a danger to themselves or others, who are without a reliable social support system, or who present with their first psychotic episode require admission to the psychiatric service for further evaluation and treatment.
rectal mucosal dysplasia in crohn's disease. serial sections of 812 rectal biopsy specimens from 356 crohn's disease patients were analysed for mucosal epithelial dysplasia. dysplasia was found in 18 patients (5%), with four showing dysplasia on repeat biopsy specimen. in these 22 biopsy specimens the dysplasia was mild in 13, moderate in nine, and severe in none. subsequently, three patients (17%) developed neoplasms including carcinoma in two and an adenomatous polyp in one. in colectomy specimens which showed dysplasia, significantly more dysplastic changes were found in seven patients who underwent colonic resection than in 10 others who underwent operation but had no prior dysplasia (p less than 0.001). thirteen patients still have their rectum in situ and remain at risk of developing colonic cancer. four carcinomas developed in patients with crohn's disease who did not have dysplasia on rectal biopsy specimen.
cisplatin-fluorouracil interaction in a squamous cell carcinoma xenograft. patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck are treated with cisplatin and fluorouracil according to a schedule based on the findings of clinical studies. a similar schedule showed a supra-additive effect in the treatment of xenografted human squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. we sought to ascertain whether this schedule was optimal. a single intraperitoneal injection of cisplatin (7.5 mg/kg) was combined with three injections of fluorouracil given during a 24-hour period (total dose, 150 or 80 mg/kg) before, during, or after cisplatin administration. the combined effect of cisplatin and fluorouracil on tumor growth and toxic effects was schedule dependent. consideration of both toxic effects and tumor growth inhibition, as assessed by reduction of the area under the growth curve, the optimal administration interval was found to be fluorouracil given 3 days after cisplatin administration.
rounded atelectasis complicated by obstructive pneumonia and pulmonary arterial thrombosis [published erratum appears in chest 1991 jun;99(6):1556] a patient with a history of asbestos exposure developed rounded atelectasis. the mass was associated with local bronchial obstruction, obstructive pneumonia and arterial thrombosis. autopsy demonstrated marked pleural thickening and radiographically inapparent asbestosis. this is the first reported case in which seemingly benign rounded atelectasis not only increased morbidity, but also contributed to mortality through airway obstruction and local arterial thrombosis.
treatment of patients with aortic dissection presenting with peripheral vascular complications. the incidence of peripheral vascular complications in 272 patients with aortic dissection during a 25-year span was determined, as was outcome after a uniform, aggressive surgical approach directed at repair of the thoracic aorta. one hundred twenty-eight patients (47%) presented with acute type a dissection, 70 (26%) with chronic type a, 40 (15%) with acute type b, and 34 (12%) with chronic type b dissections. eighty-five patients (31%) sustained one or more peripheral vascular complications: seven (3%) had a stroke, nine (3%) had paraplegia, 66 (24%) sustained loss of a peripheral pulse, 22 (8%) had impaired renal perfusion, and 14 patients (5%) had compromised visceral perfusion. following repair of the thoracic aorta, local peripheral vascular procedures were unnecessary in 92% of patients who presented with absence of a peripheral pulse. the operative mortality rate for all patients was 25% +/- 3% (68 of 272 patients). for the subsets of individuals with paraplegia, loss of renal perfusion, and compromised visceral perfusion, the operative mortality rates (+/- 70% confidence limits) were high: 44% +/- 17% (4 of 9 patients), 50% +/- 11% (11 of 22 patients), and 43% +/- 14% (6 of 14 patients), respectively. the mortality rates were lower for patients presenting with stroke (14% +/- 14% [1 of 7 patients]) or loss of peripheral pulse (27% +/- 6% [18 of 66 patients]). multivariate analysis revealed that impaired renal perfusion was the only peripheral vascular complication that was a significant independent predictor of increased operative mortality risk (p = 0.024); earlier surgical referral (replacement of the appropriate section of the thoracic aorta) or more expeditious diagnosis followed by surgical renal artery revascularization after a thoracic procedure may represent the only way to improve outcome in this high-risk patient subset. early, aggressive thoracic aortic repair (followed by aortic fenestration and/or abdominal exploration with or without direct visceral or renal vascular reconstruction when necessary) can save some patients with compromised visceral perfusion; however, once visceral infarction develops the prognosis is also poor. increased awareness of these devastating complications of aortic dissection and the availability of better diagnostic tools today may improve the survival rate for these patients in the future. the initial surgical procedure should include repair of the thoracic aorta in most patients.
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis. a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry (fcm). overall, there was an 84% correlation between cytologic and fcm results. of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination, fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 (56%). image analysis (ia) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks. in addition, fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign (false negative). aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64% of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia. twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy (predictive value = 96%). the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst. fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present, whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed. when an aneuploid peak is present, a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected, and, if the initial cytologic screen is negative, a critical review of the cytology slides is justified. in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram, additional investigation is warranted. in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid (in this study 36%) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection, leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique.
staging and follow-up of breast cancer patients. staging systems for breast cancer, unlike those of neoplasms in distant or recessed sites, allowed for the early development of clinical staging evaluation. it was established that clinical assessment of the breast lesion was often wrong compared with the pathologic examination (benign vs. malignant); clinical measurement of the tumor in centimeters was often larger than histologic size; and clinical assessment of axillary nodes (clear or metastatic) was incorrect in about 30% of cases. although both clinical and pathologic staging provide effective discriminants for prognosis of treated patients, prognosis is more accurately determined by the pathologic stage. the single most important prognostic indicator is the axillary nodal status, and when positive, the number of positive nodes. the american joint committee on cancer and the union international contra cancer have agreed on a tnm staging for breast carcinoma, and this is the preferable staging system. follow-up of treated patients is of most value in detecting local recurrence on the chest wall (after mastectomy) or in the irradiated breast (after lumpectomy), and also in early detection of contralateral breast cancer. physical examination and periodic mammography are most useful. there is a tendency to overinvestigate asymptomatic patients (with bone scans, blood tests, etc.), but this has been correctly criticized in recent years.
isolated lipase and colipase deficiency in two brothers. two brothers of arab origin, aged 15 and 10 years, with isolated congenital lipase and colipase deficiency are described. both were normally developed with a history of passing greasy stools since early infancy. both have remarkable steatorrhoea and low serum carotene and vitamin e concentrations. after exocrine pancreatic stimulation, lipase and colipase activities in the duodenal fluid were almost completely absent, while amylase trypsin, bile salt, and ph values were normal. no other aetiology for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency was found. this is the first report of congenital combined lipase and colipase deficiency in two brothers.
anaesthetic management of the brain dead for organ donation. an increasing number of anaesthetists is being called upon to manage organ donors during organ retrieval procedures. we briefly describe the technical aspects of the surgical procedure together with a guide to the anaesthetic management. the aims of the latter may be summarized as the "rule of 100": systolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmhg, urine output greater than 100 ml.hr-1, pao2 greater than 100 mmhg, haemoglobin concentration greater than 100 g.l-1. common management problems (hypotension, arrhythmias, diabetes insipidus, oliguria, and coagulopathy) are discussed in detail. the intraoperative management of the brain-dead organ donor provides the anaesthetist with the challenge of a major surgical procedure in a subject with important physiological derangements.
relationship between histologic features, dna flow cytometry, and clinical behavior of squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx. flow cytometric analysis of dna content was done on 133 primary squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx. overall, 76 tumors (57.1%) were not diploid (aneuploid or tetraploid). the dna index (di) was calculated and grouped into three levels. fifty-seven cases had a di in a range of 1.85 to 2.15 (44 diploid and 13 tetraploid). the cases were grouped in relation to ploidy, proliferative index, and the tumor-node-metastasis (tnm) system. every group was analyzed with respect to survival rate. ploidy was related to histocytologic grade. in well-differentiated tumors (g1) survival rates at 48 months were 41.7% in diploid cases and 27.7% in nondiploid ones (relative risk [rr], 2.01; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.89, 4.52). in no cases that underwent surgery, survival rates at 48 months were, respectively, 81.8% and 49.2% (rr, 5.07; 95% ci, 0.76, 33.93). these results suggest that ploidy may be a new independent parameter of prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. this is useful in clinical practice because it allows the clinician to recognize those cases with poorer prognosis among the early tumors at a stage where other prognostic parameters are not yet available.
reconstitution of high-affinity opioid agonist binding in brain membranes. in synaptosomal membranes from rat brain cortex, the mu selective agonist [3h]dihydromorphine in the absence of sodium, and the nonselective antagonist [3h]naltrexone in the presence of sodium, bound to two populations of opioid receptor sites with kd values of 0.69 and 8.7 nm for dihydromorphine, and 0.34 and 5.5 nm for naltrexone. the addition of 5 microm guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate (gtp[gamma s]) strongly reduced high-affinity agonist but not antagonist binding. exposure of the membranes to high ph reduced the number of gtp[gamma-35s] binding sites by 90% and low km, opioid-sensitive gtpase activity by 95%. in these membranes, high-affinity agonist binding was abolished and modulation of residual binding by gtp[gamma s] was diminished. high-affinity (kd, 0.72 nm), guanine nucleotide-sensitive agonist binding was reconstituted by polyethylene glycol-induced fusion of the alkali-treated membranes with (opioid receptor devoid) c6 glioma cell membranes. also restored was opioid agonist-stimulated, naltrexone-inhibited gtpase activity. in contrast, antagonist binding in the fused membranes was unaltered. alkali treatment of the glioma cell membranes prior to fusion inhibited most of the low km gtpase activity and prevented the reconstitution of agonist binding. the results show that high-affinity opioid agonist binding reflects the ligand-occupied receptor-guanine nucleotide binding protein complex.
transient myocardial ischemia and its relation to determinants of myocardial oxygen demand. because of conflicting data and a clear need to establish the relative role of increase in myocardial oxygen demand versus reduction in coronary blood flow in the causation of transient ischemia, the role of heart rate and blood pressure changes immediately preceding and during the transient ischemic events observed during daily life were evaluated in 25 patients with coronary artery disease. elevations in heart rate before onset of ischemia were observed in 61% of the episodes. similarly, 73% of the ischemic events were preceded by an increase in arterial pressure. these data provide evidence for a significant role of increased myocardial oxygen demand in the genesis of transient myocardial ischemia.
denervation in hemiplegic muscles. this study examined the frequency of denervation activity in hemiplegic muscles in relation to the size and location of the central lesion. we studied 20 patients, 14 with major unilateral cerebral infarctions in the middle cerebral or internal carotid territories; four with a single lacune in the pons, internal capsule, or thalamus; and two with precentral infarcts. using somatosensory evoked potentials, motor conduction studies, and assessments of conduction across the plexus and roots, we detected no conduction abnormalities on the affected side. fibrillation was common in both groups, especially in distal and intermediate muscles. the distribution of the fibrillation and the normal conduction studies suggested that trauma of peripheral nerves was not a factor. although the normal conduction studies and pattern of fibrillation activity do not exclude peripheral nerve trauma as the cause of the fibrillation, we suggest that transsynaptic degeneration is a reasonable alternative explanation.
molecular pathologic study of human papillomavirus infection in inverted papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. nasal inverted papilloma is a rare benign tumor occasionally associated with squamous cell carcinoma. to determine the etiological role of human papillomavirus in inverted papilloma, and to clarify the relationship between human papillomavirus and malignant transformation of this benign tumor, we retrospectively analyzed inverted papillomas from 26 patients, 7 of whom had squamous cell carcinoma. we used an immunohistochemical method and molecular pathologic techniques, or dot-blot hybridization of dna extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues, in situ hybridization, and polymerase chain reaction. human papillomavirus was detected in 5 of 26 patients (19%), 3 patients with human papillomavirus 11 and 2 patients with human papillomavirus 16. the latter 2 patients had inverted papillomas associated with squamous cell carcinoma. we speculate that human papillomavirus may be related to the malignant transformation of inverted papillomas.
neuroleptic malignant syndrome: life-threatening complication of neuroleptic treatment in adolescents with affective disorder. neuroleptic malignant syndrome (nms) is an uncommon, potentially fatal side effect of neuroleptic treatment characterized by hyperthermia, rigidity, rhabdomyolysis, and delirium. in recent clinical studies of adults it was suggested that affective disorder is a risk factor for the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome. the cases of two adolescents with neuroleptic malignant syndrome who were treated with neuroleptic therapy because of psychotic symptoms in association with primary affective disorders are reported. the occurrence of these cases, as well as the observations in adults, suggests that attention to the primary psychiatric diagnosis is important in neuroleptic usage and that physicians should be vigilant to the occurrence of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in the pediatric population.
essential thrombocythemia in young adults. essential thrombocythemia is typically a disorder of adults in the sixth or seventh decade of life and is characterized by frequent thrombohemorrhagic complications. in young patients, the optimal management of complications is controversial. we studied 56 young adults (33 female and 23 male patients) with a diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. the mean duration of follow-up was 4.68 years. the mean platelet count at diagnosis was 1,328,000/mm3. platelet aggregation studies in 21 patients demonstrated hypoaggregation to epinephrine; spontaneous platelet aggregation was present in 4. at diagnosis, 39 patients were asymptomatic, and thrombocytosis was discovered incidentally. throughout follow-up (up to 20 years), 24 patients remained asymptomatic. thrombotic complications developed in 24 patients; they were life-threatening in only 3. the most common vaso-occlusive symptoms were migraine headache (in 12 patients) and erythromelalgia (in 3). minor hemorrhagic complications occurred in six patients, and none was life-threatening. serious complications (one cerebral and two myocardial infarctions) occurred in three patients, all of whom recovered. two deaths occurred, neither of which was attributable to essential thrombocythemia. the treatment regimens used were chemotherapy in 9 patients, antiaggregating agents in 7, radioactive phosphorus in 1, the newer platelet-lowering agent anagrelide in 10, and only observation in 29. no treatment-related acute leukemias developed. this series of young patients with essential thrombocythemia, the largest to date, demonstrates a low incidence of life-threatening complications and a favorable long-term prognosis. therapeutic recommendations should remain conservative, and potential leukemogens should be avoided unless serious complications develop. anagrelide may be useful in young patients with thrombocythemia who are symptomatic.
hepatic portal venous gas: an unusual presentation of crohn's disease. hepatic portal venous gas is associated with numerous conditions and traditionally has been regarded as an ominous prognostic sign. there are several reports of hepatic portal venous gas occurring in patients with inflammatory bowel disease after or during the performance of colonic diagnostic studies. we report an unusual case of crohn's disease whose initial presentation included hepatic portal venous gas. the literature of hepatic portal venous gas associated with inflammatory bowel disease is reviewed.
acute renal failure in obstructive jaundice in cholangiocarcinoma. this study was aimed at defining the natural history of renal failure in obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma, which is an important health problem in northeastern thailand. sixty-four patients among a total of 130 patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to cholangiocarcinoma who developed acute renal failure were studied retrospectively. analysis was made with respect to clinical features, laboratory findings, and outcome. the development of renal failure before surgery was observed in all patients. it was nonoliguric in 80% and was associated with severe jaundice, gram-negative infection (42%), hypotension (31%), hypoproteinemia (30%), hyponatremia (56%), and hypokalemia (63%). the mean duration of renal failure was 2 weeks. all patients underwent surgery for the relief of jaundice. seventy-seven percent of the patients survived and had recovery of renal function after the relief of jaundice. twenty-three percent of the patients died of infection. clinical data highlight the higher serum bilirubin levels and the frequent occurrence of hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and hypotension in renal failure. their possible roles in contributing to the development of renal failure are discussed.
a biphasic pattern of anti-pre-s responses in acute hepatitis b virus infection. the clinical relevance of the immune response to the translation products of the pre-s1 and pre-s2 regions of hepatitis b virus was examined by testing sequential serum samples from 17 patients with acute self-limited hepatitis b and from two patients in whom chronic liver disease developed. anti-pre-s antibodies were determined by enzyme immunoassays based on the inhibition of binding of monoclonal antibodies to epitopes in the pre-s1 and pre-s2 sequence. in acute, self-limited infection, anti-pre-s antibodies appeared in a biphasic pattern. the early antibodies were detected at the time of clinical signs of acute disease when hbsag and often hbeag were present, but hepatitis b virus dna was no longer detectable in serum. anti-pre-s levels then fell, but subsequently reappeared as the late antibody during the recovery phase, after development of anti-hbe, but before anti-hbs. anti-pre-s responses were detected in 15 of 17 patients who recovered (88.2%) and in both patients with acute hepatitis b virus infection evolving to chronic liver disease. although the early antibodies to pre-s1 and pre-s2 proteins appeared at the time of decreasing levels of infectious virus in serum in cases of self-limited infection, these antibodies also were transiently or continuously present with high levels of serum hepatitis b virus dna in patients in whom chronic hepatitis b infection developed. thus the anti-pre-s response in acute hepatitis is not a prognostic marker for clinical resolution.
chemotherapy for children with aggressive fibromatosis and langerhans' cell histiocytosis. two disorders involving histologically benign proliferations of fibrous tissue or of histiocytes occur preferentially in children and often require combined management by an orthopedic surgeon and a pediatric oncologist. treatment of young people with aggressive fibromatosis usually begins with wide local excision of the lesion. however, some tumors cannot be completely removed either because of their location or because of the risk of subsequent serious dysfunction. not infrequently, local recurrence supervenes despite previous wide local excision, and sometimes multiple tumors are present. in these situations a trial of multiple-agent chemotherapy incorporating vincristine, actinomycin d, and cyclophosphamide may be indicated in an attempt to control the disease. radiation therapy may also be useful, but the relatively high dose (5000 cgy or more) needed in a growing child is at times a less attractive alternative. biopsy of a lytic bone lesion in young patients with langerhans' cell histiocytosis, formerly known as histiocytosis x, is also indicated for initial diagnosis. biopsy and curettage are usually curative in the patient with an isolated lesion. patients with multiple simultaneous or recurrent lesions need chemotherapy if dysfunction of the liver, spleen, or lungs is present. drug therapy may also be beneficial for children with systemic symptoms. this article outlines suggestions for chemotherapeutic treatment in both diseases.
esophageal 24-h ph monitoring: is prior manometry necessary for correct positioning of the electrode? in 24-h esophageal ph monitoring, the electrode is usually positioned 5 cm above the manometrically localized esophagogastric junction. in order to replace esophageal manometry for this purpose, we tested whether the esophagogastric junction can be identified correctly by fluoroscopy or the determination of the ph-step between stomach and esophagus, compared with esophageal manometry. the distance from the nares to the esophagogastric junction was determined three times with each of the three methods in 46 patients and 14 volunteers. fluoroscopy assumed the esophagogastric junction 1.23 +/- 0.23 cm (mean +/- se) lower than the peak pressure point determined at manometry, ph-step only 0.45 +/- 0.16 cm. with ph-step, only one subject had a difference of more than 3 cm to the manometrically defined esophagogastric junction, whether gastroesophageal reflux disease (as proven by ph monitoring) was present or not. we conclude that the esophagogastric junction can usually be identified with sufficient accuracy by the measurement of the ph-step between stomach and esophagus. fluoroscopy is far less accurate than ph-step, and should not be used.
a novel metalloproteinase gene specifically expressed in stromal cells of breast carcinomas. a gene has been identified that is expressed specifically in stromal cells surrounding invasive breast carcinomas. on the basis of its sequence, the product of this gene, named stromelysin-3, is a new member of the family of metalloproteinase enzymes which degrade the extracellular matrix. the suggestion is that stromelysin-3 is one of the stroma-derived factors that have long been postulated to play an important part in progression of epithelial malignancies.
cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma. we report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma, using a retrospective review of 115 patients' records obtained from tumor registry files. five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus. twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis. one patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma. the last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and, in the course of a standard workup, he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. these findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma.
kupffer cell activation and endothelial cell damage after storage of rat livers: effects of reperfusion. reperfusion injury characterized by loss of endothelial cell viability occurs after cold ischemic storage of livers for transplantation surgery. here, ultrastructural changes in stored rat livers were examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. with increasing times of storage in euro-collins solution (4 to 24 hr) followed by 15 min of reperfusion at 37 degrees c, a sequence of structural alterations was observed involving endothelial and kupffer cells. widening of endothelial fenestrations occurred after 4 hr and progressed over 8 to 24 hr to retraction of cellular processes, ball-like rounding, sinusoidal denudation and ultrastructural derangements consistent with loss of cell viability. kupffer cells exhibited progressive rounding, ruffling of the cell surface, polarization, appearance of wormlike densities, vacuolization and degranulation over a similar time course. by contrast, the structures of parenchymal and fat-storing cells were relatively undisturbed by cold storage and reperfusion. alterations to endothelial and kupffer cells were also studied as a function of time of reperfusion. after 24 hr of storage, endothelial cells showed retraction of cytoplasm before reperfusion that progressed quickly to loss of viability and denudation during reperfusion. kupffer cell activation (ruffling, degranulation) during reperfusion was slower and occurred after deterioration of endothelial cells. livers stored in euro-collins solution were also compared with livers stored in university of wisconsin cold storage solution, an improved preservation medium for transplantation. university of wisconsin solution provided better preservation of endothelial structure and markedly reduced parenchymal cell blebbing and swelling before reperfusion. university of wisconsin solution also reduced kupffer cell activation and release of lysosomal enzymes. in conclusion, endothelial cell deterioration followed by kupffer cell activation occurred after increasing times of cold ischemic storage and reperfusion of rat livers. both changes may contribute to the pathophysiology of graft failure caused by reperfusion-mediated storage injury.
infections of the clavicle in children. of 23 children with infections of the clavicle, 11 had pyogenic osteomyelitis, four had tuberculosis, and eight (infants) had congenital syphilis. acute pyogenic infections were treated by drainage. resection of the clavicle was performed in chronic cases. curettage and antituberculosis drugs were effective for children with tuberculous infection of the clavicle. procaine penicillin was used for the treatment of congenital syphilis. biopsy is generally necessary to differentiate chronic infection from neoplasm.
anterior femoral cutaneous nerve injury following femoral artery reconstructive surgery. two cases are presented exhibiting symptoms and signs of bilateral anterior femoral cutaneous nerve injury, clinically sparing femoral nerve branches to the saphenous nerve and quadriceps muscles. this occurred following surgical dissection in the femoral triangles associated with femoral artery reconstructive surgery. anterior femoral cutaneous nerve injury should be considered when anterior medial thigh pain and numbness occur following aortofemoral bypass graft surgery and other types of femoral artery reconstructive surgery.
new technologies for the treatment of obstructive arterial disease. the well-known limitations of balloon angioplasty include unpredictable abrupt closure, chronic total occlusion, diffuse disease, and restenosis, among other factors. these limitations have prompted the development of new technologic approaches to angioplasty including laser applications for plaque ablation, mechanical device applications for plaque removal/debridement, and stent devices for structural maintenance of vascular lumen patency. devices which directly apply laser energy for ablation of plaque material include a balloon-centered laser angioplasty system, excimer laser ablation catheter systems, and a fluorescence-guided spectral feedback laser system. experience with these devices indicates that plaque can be successfully ablated by using laser energy. vessel perforation and dissection are complications reported with these devices and the effects of laser angioplasty on restenosis remain unclear. indirect application of laser energy has been tested by using a "hot tip" catheter and a laser balloon angioplasty system. although the hot tip device has received fda approval for use in peripheral arteries, it appears to have very limited applications in the coronary arteries. laser balloon angioplasty appears to be beneficial in the setting of threatened acute closure; the device continues to be evaluated for potential beneficial impact on restenosis. mechanical atherectomy catheters are designed to remove atherosclerotic plaque from the arterial system and include the atherocath, the transluminal extraction catheter (tec), and the pullback atherectomy catheter (pac). the rotablator is an atheroablation device which debrides the obstructing plaque material with distal embolization of the particulate debris. successful removal/debridement of atherosclerotic plaque has been demonstrated with the atherocath, rotablator, and the tec device. pre-clinical studies demonstrate successful removal of plaque material with the pac device. despite the theoretic advantage of removing plaque material when performing angioplasty with these devices, there has been little or no reduction in restenosis rates based on a significant experience with the atherocath and the rotablator. intravascular stent devices including one self-expanding device design and two balloon-expandable device designs have been employed successfully in the elective setting to treat recurrent restenosis lesions. two of the devices have been successfully tested in the setting of threatened acute closure. early follow-up studies suggest some improvement in restenosis rates in certain clinical settings following intravascular stenting. acute and subacute thrombosis remain substantial problems for stent devices and very aggressive anticoagulation regimens are necessary to minimize the adverse events. in summary, a number of a new technologic approaches for treatment of atherosclerotic lesions have been developed and are undergoing significant clinical evaluation.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. a randomised, double-blind, multi-centre study. this randomized, double-blind, multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. a total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study. eighty-three patients (mean age 66 years) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily, and 75 patients (mean age 67 years) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily. ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication. due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions, the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered. over weeks 1-4, 87%, 64%, 61% and 52% of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group, and 38%, 31%, 22% and 29% of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions. significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks. nausea, dizziness, vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group. during the first week of treatment, 30 patients (36%) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 (12%) in the paracetamol group dropped out. as evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment, the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group. moreover, during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently. in conclusion, when evaluated after 7 days of treatment, the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint. however, several adverse drug reactions, mainly of the gastrointestinal tract, and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine cannot be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients.
hilar malignancy: treatment with an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary stent. an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary endoprosthesis was used to treat 20 patients with hilar malignancy and isolated right and left intrahepatic ducts. in 12 patients, only one intrahepatic ductal system was drained; in eight patients, both systems were drained. in five patients, both systems were drained through a single transhepatic track by arrangement of two stents in a t configuration. the initial technical success rate in placing the stents and achieving internal drainage was 100%. complications necessitating further intervention occurred in two of the 20 patients. short-term clinical follow-up was available for 19 of the 20 patients. two months after stent insertion, two patients complained of persistent jaundice, two patients died without jaundice, and 15 patients were free of symptoms of biliary obstruction. a variety of geometric configurations are possible with this endoprosthesis. the relative merits of these stent arrangements are discussed, and a new technique for placing the stents in a t configuration is described.
beta-carotene and cancer prevention: the basel study. in 1971-1973 at the third examination of the basel study started in 1959, the major antioxidant vitamins and carotene were measured in the plasma of 2974 men. a subsample and their families were reinvestigated in 1977-79. during the 12-y observation period (1973-85) 553 men died, 204 of cancer (lung cancer 68, stomach cancer 20; colon cancer 17, all other malignancies 99). we found significantly lower mean carotene levels for all cancer, bronchus cancer, and stomach cancer (all p less than 0.01) compared with the 2421 survivors. the relative risk of subjects with low carotene (less than 0.23 mumol/l) was significantly elevated (p less than 0.05) for lung cancer (cox's model). higher risks were noted for all cancer (p less than 0.01) if both carotene and retinol were low. low plasma carotene which is known to reflect carotene intake is in our study associated with increased cancer risk.
environmental risk factors in siblings with parkinson's disease. to investigate possible risk factors in parkinson's disease, we conducted a case-controlled study of 19 families having two or more siblings with parkinson's disease. demographic data were collected, including lifetime histories of places of residence; sources of drinking water; occupations, such as farming; and exposure to herbicides and pesticides. rural living and drinking well water, but not farming and herbicide exposure, were significantly increased in 38 parkinsonians compared with 38 normal control subjects. a comparison of parkinsonian siblings with siblings with essential tremor revealed no differences in any risk factors for the years of shared environment. these data suggest that living in a rural environment and drinking well water are risk factors for parkinson's disease and that the total life exposure to an environmental toxin may be more important than exposure in early life.
effects of salt, race, and hypertension on reactivity to stressors. blood pressure and heart rate reactivity to a psychological stressor and to a cold pressor test were examined in a group of 51 normotensive and 37 unmedicated hypertensive men. all were studied twice, once while the participants were maintained on a moderately high salt (200 meq sodium/day) diet and once while the participants were maintained on an extremely low salt (10 meq sodium/day) diet. dietary salt had no effect on blood pressure or heart rate responses to the two stressors. the systolic and diastolic responses of the white participants to the psychological stressor were greater than those of the black participants (both p less than 0.05); however, there was no difference between blacks and whites in reactivity to the cold pressor challenge. as compared with the normotensive group, the hypertensive group reacted to the psychological stressor with increased responses in systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate (all p less than 0.05). the hypertensive group also hyperresponded in terms of the systolic pressure response to the cold pressor task (p less than 0.05). plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine responses were not significantly different across the two diets, races, or diagnoses.
mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients: findings at cholangiography, ct, and us. the case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated. all patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation. cholangiographic, ultrasound (us), and computed tomography (ct) images were available for review in eight, five, and four patients, respectively. cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients. us and ct showed fairly well- to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients, respectively. the findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant. ct and us images may offer confirmatory evidence.
growth in children from the wosera subdistrict, papua new guinea, in relation to energy and protein intakes and zinc status. in a cross-sectional study of 123 children aged 24-120 mo from the wosera subdistrict of papua new guinea, height, weight, hematocrit, hemoglobin, hair zinc, and presence of malaria were measured. two 24-h recalls were undertaken in 67 of the children aged 72-120 mo; 52%, 73%, and 76% had energy, protein, and zinc intakes, respectively, less than two-thirds of the fao/who/unu recommendations. stunting was prevalent (29%); 16% were moderately wasted. the prevalence of stunting and hair zinc concentrations less than 1.68 mumol/g was gender related; 38% of males vs 20% of females had z scores for height-for-age (haz scores) less than -2 (p = 0.04); 26% of males vs 11% of females had hair zinc less than 1.68 mumol/g (p less than 0.05). analysis of variance showed that age, sex, hemoglobin, and log hair zinc influenced haz scores, depending on the age group; both sex and the log of the hair zinc values were significant factors in the older children. stunting in worsera children was related to chronic deficits in energy and protein and was excerbated in the older male children by suboptimal zinc status.
simulated left ventricular aneurysm and aneurysm repair in swine. patch reconstruction of left ventricular aneurysm may be superior to linear closure, but this hypothesis has not been tested experimentally. accordingly, six anesthetized domestic pigs were instrumented to measure regional left ventricular wall thickening, stroke volume, systolic left ventricular pressure, and myocardial oxygen consumption. with total bypass and cardioplegia, a 6 by 8 cm dacron patch was inserted into the anteroapical left ventricle. simulations were as follows: left ventricular aneurysm, patch open; patch reconstruction, 50% patch plication; standard repair, ventriculotomy edges approximated. global function, from stroke work (stroke volume x integral of left ventricular pressure)-left ventricular end-diastolic pressure curves, was depressed in all three simulations compared with control. a tendency for stroke work to be greater for standard repair than for left ventricular aneurysm and patch reconstruction at higher preloads was not statistically significant. mechanical efficiency, from stroke work/myocardial oxygen consumption (joules per milliliter oxygen per beat), was 2.43 +/- 0.52 (mean +/- standard error of the mean) (control), 2.22 +/- 0.94 (standard repair), 1.27 +/- 0.39 (patch reconstruction), and 1.09 +/- 0.37 (left ventricular aneurysm) (no significant differences). regional work was calculated as regional left ventricular wall thickening x integral of left ventricular pressure. the slope of the regional work-end-diastolic wall thickness relation decreased in the posterior wall 14.0 +/- 2.9 (control) versus 8.4 +/- 2.0 (left ventricular aneurysm), 6.9 +/- 1.4 (patch reconstruction), and 7.4 +/- 1.4 (standard repair) (p less than 0.05). in the anterior wall, contractility did not change significantly (7.4 +/- 1.2, control; 7.8 +/- 2.7, left ventricular aneurysm; 5.0 +/- 0.4, patch reconstruction; and 5.3 +/- 0.4, standard repair). decreased end-diastolic wall thinning anteriorly suggested tethering. these results in the normal left ventricle suggest that patch ventriculoplasty is of no greater benefit than linear repair. either repair may impede function of adjacent myocardium through restriction of regional diastolic lengthening.
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis. we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms, hyperplastic gastric polyps, and active chronic gastritis. biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori (hp) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr. after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate, both became asymptomatic, one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp. these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis.
penetrating keratoplasty after ocular trauma. we reviewed the records of 41 patients who underwent penetrating keratoplasty for a corneal opacity caused by trauma between jan. 1, 1983, and dec. 31, 1988. most of the patients were young males whose average age was 35 years. common tools accounted for many injuries (14 of 41, 34%). sixteen injuries (39%) were work-related. thirty-six patients (88%) had corneal scars from a perforating injury, four patients (10%) had corneal edema, and one patient (2%) required emergency penetrating keratoplasty for extensive tissue loss. of the 39 patients with one year of follow-up, 31 (82%) maintained clear corneal grafts. rejection occurred in nine of 39 patients (23%) and only three (33%) of the rejections resolved. visual outcome was favorable with 20 patients (51%) attaining best-corrected postoperative visual acuity of 20/20 to 20/40, nine patients (23%) attaining visual acuity of 20/50 to 20/100, and ten patients (26%) attaining visual acuity of 20/200 or worse. preoperative retinal disease (six of 39, 15%), astigmatic errors (five of 39, 13%), graft failures (four of 39, 10%), and postoperative glaucoma (12 of 39, 31%) adversely influenced the outcome. although the prevalence of postoperative complications is relatively high, good visual results can be obtained in patients who undergo penetrating keratoplasty after ocular trauma.
normalization of increased sodium sensitivity by maintenance hemodialysis. blood pressure (bp) becomes more sodium and body fluid sensitive as renal function deteriorates. thus, hypertension in chronic renal failure is mostly of the sodium sensitive type. we studied whether the increased sodium sensitivity (ss) can be restored to normal on the maintenance phase of hemodialysis (hd) therapy. body weight (bw) and bp (specifically, mean arterial pressure [map]) were measured after hd and before the next hd, and the body fluid sensitivity (bfs) was calculated as the ratio of changes in these factors on both introduction and maintenance phases in hd patients (n = 56) who were not taking any antihypertensive drugs (bfs = delta map/delta bw). in a preliminary study, the amount of interdialytic sodium intake (qna+) was measured (n = 30), and ss was calculated as the ratio of the change in map to qna+ (ss = delta map/qna+). interdialytic bw gain (3.1 +/- 0.1 kg) was correlated with the amount of sodium intake (136 +/- 17 meq), resulting in a positive relationship between bfs and ss (r = 0.79, p less than .0001). therefore, bfs was used as an index of ss. as a whole, bfs decreased from the introduction to the maintenance phase (6.5 +/- 1.0 to 3.5 +/- 0.6 mm hg/l, p less than .01). this decrease was marked (6.2 +/- 1.1 to 2.9 +/- 0.6 mm hg/l, p less than .01) in patients (n = 46) whose bp was normalized in the maintenance phase, while not significant (7.9 +/- 1.9 to 6.3 +/- 1.3 mm hg/l) in patients (n = 10) whose bp was still high.
occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection. angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare. before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively. we report mri scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome. mri was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics, especially chronic hemorrhage. one patient underwent biopsy of the lesion. the other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision. occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized. the mri scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions. in certain patients, these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function.
"cloggology" revisited: endoscopic or surgical decompression of malignant biliary obstruction. in this study, 50 consecutive patients over age 60 with obstructive jaundice secondary to malignant stricture of the distal common bile duct were identified by endoscopic cholangiography. the patients were then randomized to palliative therapy with either endoscopic endoprosthesis or bypass surgery. prospective indices of survival time, complication rates, hospitalization requirements, and quality of life were followed. all 25 patients randomized to endoprosthesis were treated by this procedure, whereas only 19 of 25 patients randomized to bypass surgery underwent operative biliary-digestive anastomosis. no difference in the above indices were found between the two groups. the authors concluded that palliation of obstructive jaundice due to a malignant bile duct stricture with endoscopically placed biliary stent is as effective as operative bypass.
effects of inflammation and copper intake on rat liver and erythrocyte cu-zn superoxide dismutase activity levels. stress such as inflammation produces an acute phase response that includes elevated levels of ceruloplasmin, the main copper component of plasma. inflammatory effects on cellular copper enzyme activity levels are largely unknown. cu-zn superoxide dismutase (sod) activities in liver, the main site of ceruloplasmin secretion, decreased with turpentine-induced inflammation (0.1 ml, intramuscular, leg) in rats fed any of three copper levels (adequate = 6 mg/kg, marginal = 2.5 mg/kg and deficient less than 0.5 mg/kg). ceruloplasmin activities rose significantly with inflammation in the adequate and marginal groups but not in the deficient animals. hepatic cu-zn sod immunoreactive protein levels were unaffected by copper status or inflammatory state. erythrocyte cu-zn sod activities were influenced by dietary copper but not inflammation. an additional group of rats fed 15 mg copper/kg did not show a turpentine-induced decrease in liver cu-zn activity levels. inflammatory effects on other copper enzyme activities did occur as evidenced by increases in ceruloplasmin and decreases in serum extracellular sod. in conclusion, an acute phase response in rats increased the amount of dietary copper required to maintain hepatic cu-zn sod activity at levels equal to those of nonstressed, copper-adequate rats. rat erythrocyte cu-zn sod activities provided a blood measurement reflective of copper intake with or without stress, but these values did not reflect decreases in liver cu-zn sod activities after 3 d of inflammation.
comparison of symptom characteristics of indwelling ureteral catheters. the signs and symptoms produced by 4 different types of 7f double pigtail catheters, including cook polyurethane pigtail stent, surgitek silitek uropass, cook c-flex and van-tec soft stent, were analyzed prospectively. the stents were placed in 45 men and 28 women ranging in age from 23 to 72 years old. a total of 44 catheters had a suture attached to the bladder end of the catheter, which exited from the urethral meatus to facilitate removal. the remaining 29 catheters had no suture attached. symptoms were evaluated at 2 and 6 days after insertion and 1 week following removal of the catheter, and included urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, flank pain, suprapubic pain, dysuria and pain on removal of the catheter. frequency and nocturia were evaluated in minutes, pain was graded on a subjective scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (severe pain), and dysuria and hematuria were assessed qualitatively. there were no significant differences among the 4 types of catheters in terms of frequency, nocturia, hematuria, flank pain, suprapubic pain and dysuria. in addition, there was no significant difference in urinary symptoms between catheters with and without a suture at either 2 or 6 days after insertion nor was there any difference in pain on removal of catheters with (mean 3.9) and without (mean 5.0) suture. we found that catheter composition and use of suture to facilitate removal did not significantly affect patient morbidity.
touch and surgical division of the anterior quadrant of the spinal cord. an investigation was carried out to determine whether tactile sensibility was affected by anterolateral cordotomy. there were 65 patients who had cordotomies for painful forms of cancer. thirty eight had necropsy examination with histological investigation of the spinal cord. no form of mechanoreception was removed in any of the 65 patients and in the majority no forms of tactile sensibility were altered by division of the pathways in the anterolateral and anterior columns. in no case was graphaesthesia affected. knowledge of joint position and movement and awareness of vibration was normal in 62 of the 65 patients. but information carried by these anterolateral pathways does reach neural levels of consciousness, for with total lesions of the posterior columns, previously reported, touch and pressure are still felt. itch was removed by division of the anterolateral pathways. although the posterior columns are essential for discrimination in mechanoreception, discrimination may be disturbed by lesions of the anterolateral pathways, notably two-point discrimination. the evidence on the pathways essential for conveying impulses giving rise to tickle was inconclusive.
haemophilus influenzae meningitis with prolonged hospital course. a retrospective evaluation of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis observed over a 2-year period documented 86 cases. eight of these patients demonstrated an unusual clinical course characterized by persistent fever (duration: greater than 10 days), cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, profound meningeal enhancement on computed tomography, significant morbidity, and a prolonged hospital course. the mean age of these 8 patients was 6 months, in contrast to a mean age of 14 months for the entire group. two patients had clinical evidence of relapse. four of the 8 patients tested for latex particle agglutination in the cerebrospinal fluid remained positive after 10 days. all patients received antimicrobial therapy until they were afebrile for a minimum of 5 days. subsequent neurologic examination revealed a persistent seizure disorder in 5 patients (62.5%), moderate-to-profound hearing loss in 2 (25%), mild ataxia in 1 (12.5%), and developmental delay with hydrocephalus which required shunting in 1 (12.5%). one patient had no sequelae.
carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct. a review of 39 instances of excision of a cyst of the thyroglossal duct performed at st. paul medical center, dallas, texas, revealed two patients with carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct. a review of the english literature yielded 146 instances of this uncommon tumor. eighty-four per cent were papillary adenocarcinoma of thyroid type and 5 per cent were squamous cell carcinoma. the patients were from six to 81 years old with a 2:1 female to male ratio. metastatic disease to lymph nodes was noted in 11 per cent and invasion of overlying strap muscles was found in 4 per cent. carcinoma of the thyroid gland occurred in 14 per cent. preoperative diagnosis was rare. the sistrunk procedure is recommended for initial surgical therapy with further surgical or adjuvant therapy dependent on associated clinical findings. prognosis for carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct of thyroid type parallels that of carcinoma of the thyroid gland.
quantitative assessment of extradural bupivacaine analgesia. bupivacaine (0.5%) 20 ml was administered extradurally to six healthy volunteers. it was found that simultaneous application of 10 needles to the skin could evoke pain when analgesia was obtained to one needle stimulation. in addition, a laser beam was used as a quantitative technique to activate simultaneously many cutaneous nociceptors. for 7 h, thresholds (sensory and pain) and pain-evoked brain potentials (amplitude and latency) to laser stimulation were monitored and used for quantitative assessment of onset, efficacy and duration of analgesia at various dermatomes (c7, t8, t10, t12, l1, l3, s1). the onset time of analgesia was shortest and conduction delay longest at the dermatome related to the site of injection (l3). full analgesia was obtained at l1, l3 and s1, although the peak efficacy at s1 was delayed for 120-180 min after injection. a minor effect was found at dermatome c7 approximately 60 min after injection.
chiari pelvic osteotomy for osteoarthritis. the influence of the torn and detached acetabular labrum. we assessed the results of chiari pelvic osteotomy in 64 hips with early osteoarthritis in terms of acetabular labral detachment detected pre-operatively by arthrography. at an average follow-up of four years, assessment by the merle d'aubigne score showed 83% excellent or good results. these satisfactory results were achieved in only half the cases with a detached labrum, but in nearly all cases with normal or torn acetabular labra. other factors such as the acetabular index, the level and angle of osteotomy, and the displacement following osteotomy did not affect the results. chiari pelvic osteotomy is a worthwhile procedure for early osteoarthritis in selected cases, but a detached acetabular labrum increases the risk of clinical failure.
ureteral stump carcinoma incidentally found at cystectomy for bladder cancer. we report on a sixty-five-year-old man with hematuria secondary to superficial bladder cancer. because of previous urethral trauma, a complete transurethral resection of his bladder tumor could not be done. he, therefore, underwent cystectomy, at which time we incidentally found a transitional cell carcinoma of the left ureteral stump that had been left from a previous left nephrectomy for a world war ii-related injury. this case underscores the importance of a thorough investigation of the complete urinary tract in a patient with hematuria or other urinary tract symptoms even if an obvious cause is found for his symptoms.
polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction: polip syndrome. we describe 5 individuals (from three separate families) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy, cranial neuropathies (external ophthalmoplegia, deafness), and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied. autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system, possibly secondary to axonal atrophy, and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter (leukoencephalopathy). the cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact. the fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy. we suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical, radiological, and neuropathological features, and propose the acronym polip to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
sulphasalazine and prednisone compared with sulphasalazine for treating active crohn disease. a double-blind, randomized, multicenter trial. objective: to determine whether sulphasalazine plus prednisone is more effective than sulphasalazine alone in treating active crohn disease. design: randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. setting: multicenter trial in one university hospital and nine general hospitals. patients: patients with active crohn disease and a van hees activity index of 140 or more. of 71 patients who were randomly assigned, 60 completed treatment and were analyzed. interventions: for 16 weeks, 30 patients received sulphasalazine, 6 g/d (or 4 g/d if adverse effects occurred) and prednisone, 30 mg/d initially. prednisone therapy was tapered in increments of 5 mg/2 wk to 10 mg/d after 8 weeks. thirty other patients received sulphasalazine and a placebo. measurements and main results: in the first 6 weeks of treatment, the van hees activity index decreased to a median of 70% (interquartile range, 57% to 81%) of the initial value in patients treated with sulphasalazine and prednisone and to a median of 87% (interquartile range, 70% to 94%) in patients treated with sulphasalazine alone (p = 0.001). in the last 4 weeks of treatment, the corresponding figures were 63% (interquartile range, 40% to 75%) and 70% (interquartile range, 54% to 90%) (p = 0.10). the crohn's disease activity index decreased in the first 6 weeks to a median of 65% (interquartile range, 57% to 86%) in patients receiving sulphasalazine and prednisone and to a median of 75% (interquartile range, 58% to 101%) in patients receiving sulphasalazine alone (p = 0.13). in the last 4 weeks of treatment, the corresponding figures were 65% (interquartile range, 42% to 90%) and 76% (interquartile range, 49% to 110%) (p = 0.19). conclusions: the use of prednisone in addition to sulphasalazine in patients with active crohn disease results in a significantly faster initial improvement, but not in a significantly better result after 16 weeks of treatment, when disease activity is measured by the van hees activity index.
restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis to study the genetic origin of complete hydatidiform mole. to determine the genetic origin of the complete hydatidiform mole, 20 abnormal pregnancies were studied with restriction fragment length polymorphism with five genomic probes: ej 6.6, beta-globin gene, 3'alpha-hypervariable region, j-bir, and st14. in the 12 cases of molar pregnancy, pure paternal origin was proved in 11 cases, but both maternal and paternal inheritance were shown in only one case. in the cases with pure paternal origin, all of the restriction fragment length polymorphisms were homozygous, although those of the fathers were heterozygous at 15 loci. in the four cases that mimicked hydatidiform mole but were diagnosed as hydropic change of villi, both paternal and maternal inheritance were noted. in the four pregnancies with blighted ovum, both paternal and maternal inheritance were shown in three cases; and in one case with a balanced translocation between chromosomes 13 and 14, only paternal inheritance was noted. this study showed that most of the complete hydatidiform moles were caused by fertilization of an empty egg by a duplicated haploid sperm, but rare exceptions may exist.
(a)typical symptoms during single needle dialysis. in 5 elderly patients, an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis. all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes, bicarbonate dialysate, and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system, on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle. these symptoms were: 1) "angina," resistant to o2 and nitrates, with biochemical stigmata of infarction, but without electrocardiogram (ecg) localization; 2) intractable persistent hypotension, not hypovolemic, lasting 1 or 2 days; 3) esophagal spasms, with inability to swallow solid food. because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis (biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin) due to red cell fragmentation (rcf), we switched these patients from fistula dialysis (a) to central catheter dialysis (b), with the same apperture, blood flow, etc. the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891; the mean ldh ratios (serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis) were 1.8 and 1.0 (= no rcf); angina events were 132 (26%) for a, and 25 (3%) for b; persistent hypotension was seen 37 (7%) times in a and 5 (0.6%) times in b; esophagal spasms were noted 65 (13%) times for a, and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae. this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle.
cerebrospinal norepinephrine concentrations and the duration of epidural analgesia this study was performed to determine whether the addition of norepinephrine to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia in man. in addition, cerebrospinal fluid norepinephrine (ne) concentrations were measured. in the first part of the study, epidural catheters were inserted in 14 patients before herniotomy. mepivacaine, 1.5 per cent (0.35 ml.kg-1), was administered and norepinephrine (5 micrograms.ml-1) was added in seven patients. the duration of anaesthesia was prolonged from 54 +/- 11 min to 83 +/- 12 min (p less than 0.05) and csf ne concentrations increased from 68 +/- 12 pg.ml-1 to 336 +/- 85 pg.ml-1 in the ne group (p less than 0.01). in the second part, eight patients with herpetic neuralgia received epidural analgesia at the fourth to eighth thoracic interspace, using bupivacaine 0.25 per cent, with and without ne. the csf ne concentrations in this group were greater than in the surgical patients before operation and increased from 254 +/- 58 to 406 +/- 58 pg.ml-1 30 min after administration of bupivacaine with ne. the duration of pain relief was prolonged with ne. these results suggest that adding ne to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia. moreover, ne concentrations in surgical patients increased to levels similar to those found in patients suffering from herpetic analgesia. this suggests that the increase of csf ne in chronic pain states has an antinociceptive effect.
putative mechanisms of cytoprotective effect of certain antacids and sucralfate. an investigation of cytoprotective activity of certain antacids and inert particles was carried out by treating ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage in rats in order to clarify possible mechanisms by which aluminum-containing antacids act. al(oh)3 inhibited gastric mucosal damage in a dose-related and time-dependent manner. neither aluminum ions themselves nor the particle size of the al(oh)3 complex were responsible for the observed cytoprotection, since neither alcl3, chemically inert al2o3*c, nor sea sand showed protective effects. hyperosmolality in the gastric lumen was not a deciding factor in inducing cytoprotection. silicic acid and titanium dioxide, with superficial charge similar to al(oh)3 proved to be effective in inhibiting gastric hemorrhagic lesions and releasing pge2, suggesting that the surface charge of al(oh)3 may be important in its cytoprotective properties. the same may also be valid for sucralfate. since antacid-induced cytoprotection was only partly reduced by pretreatment with indomethacin, it is likely that additional mechanisms and mediators other than prostaglandins, such as nonprotein sulfhydryls, also are involved in gastric cytoprotection arising from aluminum-containing antacids.
autologous transplantation of adrenal medulla in parkinson's disease. 18-month results. eighteen of 19 patients who underwent autologous adrenal medullary transplantation to the right caudate nucleus have been followed up for 18 months. during the course of this study, a statistically significant improvement was noted in percent "on" time, percent "on" time without dyskinesia, activity of daily living (adl) scores during the "on" stages, and adl, motor, and schwab-england scores during the "off" stages. benefits tended to be maximal at 6 months and to gradually lessen thereafter, although statistically significant improvement in comparison with baseline was still present at 18 months for adl, motor, and hoehn-yahr scores during the "off" stages. almost all parameters had deteriorated by 18 months compared with 12 months, including those remaining significantly improved in comparison with baseline. these patterns were similar for each of the three participating centers. complications were largely restricted to the perioperative period.
pharmacokinetics of indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody in murine experimental viral myocarditis. the pharmacokinetics of indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody fab were investigated with use of murine experimental viral myocarditis as a model. the biodistribution of indium-111-labeled antimyosin antibody fab on days 3, 5, 7, 14, 21 and 28 after encephalomyocarditis virus inoculation demonstrated that myocardial uptake increased significantly on days 5, 7 and 14 (maximum on day 7) in infected versus uninfected mice (p less than 0.001). in vivo kinetics in infected mice on day 7 demonstrated that the heart to blood ratio reached a maximum 48 h after the intravenous administration of indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab, which was considered to be the optimal time for scintigraphy. the scintigraphic images obtained with indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab demonstrated positive uptake in the cardiac lesion in infected mice. the pathologic study demonstrated that myocardial uptake correlated well with pathologic grades of myocardial necrosis. high performance liquid chromatography revealed the presence of an antigen-antibody complex in the circulation of infected mice after the injection of indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab. this antigen bound to indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab in the circulation might be whole myosin and this complex may decrease myocardial uptake and increase liver uptake. it is concluded that indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody fab accumulates selectively in damaged heart tissue in mice with acute myocarditis and that indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab scintigraphy may be a useful method for the visualization of acute myocarditis.
epidemiology of epilepsy in guaymi indians from bocas del toro province, republic of panama. this cross-sectional study was conducted to describe the epidemiology of epilepsy in guaymi indians residing in changuinola, a small town on panama's caribbean coast near costa rica. we randomly selected households and attempted to enroll all residents aged less than or equal to 1 year; 337 eligible subjects agreed to participate (93% response rate). we administered a standard neurologic disease screening examination to all subjects and, if any abnormality was found, we administered a standard neurologic evaluation. we detected 19 cases of active epilepsy; the mean age at onset was 12 years, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures were the most common diagnosis (10 of 19, 53%). the prevalence of active epilepsy among caribbean coastal guaymi (57/1000) is considerably greater than that in lower class panama city populations (22/1000) or in other parts of the world. to identify risk factors for epilepsy, we collected epidemiologic data and serum (for cysticercus antibody) from subjects with active epilepsy and from 44 age/sex-matched controls. significantly more cases (47%) than controls (6%) had other family members with epilepsy (relative risk, rr = 14); 44% of cases and 13% of controls reported a history of febrile seizures during childhood (rr = 6).
practical aspects of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone administration. pulsatile administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents a major advance in the treatment of anovulation in women who fail to ovulate with clomiphene citrate and is an alternative for many women who currently receive human menopausal gonadotropin. four issues must be addressed before administering pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone: (1) safety, (2) efficacy, (3) convenience, and (4) cost. each of these issues will be affected by the three major decisions a physician makes with gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy: (1) patient selection, (2) route of administration, and (3) dose of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. the ideal candidate for gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a patient with an absence of endogenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone, as seen in hypothalamic amenorrhea. although women with polycystic ovarian disease can be treated with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone, a decreased ovulation rate should be expected. the route of administration, intravenous or subcutaneous, and the degree of monitoring can be tailored by the physician to fit each patient's needs. pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a safe, effective, convenient, and economical alternative to human menopausal gonadotropin for ovulation induction in women resistant to clomiphene.
use of the metabolic tracer carbon-11-acetate for evaluation of regional myocardial perfusion. the high first-pass myocardial extraction fraction of carbon-11-acetate suggests that its initial uptake depends on blood flow. accordingly, regional uptake of 11c-acetate at 4 min was compared to regional perfusion determined with nitrogen-13-ammonia in 119 segments in 15 patients with stable coronary artery disease by two methods. a close correlation was observed between initial relative myocardial concentrations (segmental activity normalized to maximal activity) of both tracers (11c-acetate = 0.88; 13n-ammonia + 0.079; s.e.e. = 0.064, r = 0.94, p less than 0.001). furthermore, segmental net extractions (e.f), as calculated from the input function and segmental activities, of the two tracers correlated closely by e.fc-11 = 0.55e.fn-13 + 0.080 (s.e.e. = 0.045, r = 0.87, p less than 0.001). these relationships indicate that initial regional myocardial uptake of 11c-acetate reflects perfusion and that 11c-acetate permits near simultaneous evaluation of regional oxidative metabolism and of regional myocardial perfusion.
cerebral malaria in children cerebral malaria is a rapidly progressive encephalopathy with up to 50% mortality. a cardinal feature is the massing of red cells containing mature plasmodium falciparum within the cerebral capillaries. adhesion of these parasitised red cells to endothelium, an event which may initiate cerebral malaria, is being studied at the molecular level. however, the relevance of these studies to the pathophysiology and treatment of human cerebral malaria is uncertain. although chloroquine is still widely used to treat falciparum malaria, resistance has spread to most of the endemic zone. quinine is emerging as the only effective treatment for cerebral malaria, though resistance to this drug threatens to become a problem. alternative drugs are urgently needed.
protein synthesis required to anchor a mutant p53 protein which is temperature-sensitive for nuclear transport. the p53 protein is rendered temperature-sensitive by a point mutation. rat cells transformed by this mutant p53 and an activated ras oncogene grow well at 37 degrees c but cease dna synthesis and cell division when shifted to 32 degrees c. immunostaining demonstrates that the mutant p53 protein is in the nucleus of the arrested cells at 32 degrees c but in the cytoplasm of the growing cells at 37 degrees c. this is the first example of a protein which is temperature-sensitive for nuclear transport. the translocation from cytoplasm to nucleus and vice versa occurs 6 h after temperature shift and is coincident with the inhibition of dna synthesis; transport from cytoplasm to nucleus does not require protein synthesis. remarkably, inhibition of protein synthesis at 37 degrees c also results in the rapid appearance of mutant p53 in the cell nucleus. these results suggest the presence of a short-lived protein responsible for holding p53 in the cytoplasm at 37 degrees c but not at 32 degrees c. analysis of a non-temperature-sensitive mutant p53 protein shows that its cytoplasmic location is sensitive to protein synthesis inhibitors but not to temperature.
progression through the cell cycle: an overview. tissues in adults can be maintained at constant mass or they can increase or decrease in size because of imbalances of synthetic and degradative processes acting at the cellular and molecular levels. some size changes are caused by physiologic conditions to which the tissue must adjust. alternatively, the balance may be distorted in favor of net tissue increase in pathologic situations such as cancer. strict regulatory mechanisms are required to keep proliferation responsive to the organism's needs; these mechanisms may be defective in disease. net tissue proliferation requires repeated rounds of cell duplication in excess of that necessary to counterbalance cell death. duplication of a cell requires a net doubling of its every molecule and structure. the myriad of molecular events required for cell proliferation such as dna duplication and its partitioning at mitosis are tightly regulated in normal cells. one may conceive of two classes of molecules: those required for "housekeeping," which constitute the cell's structural and functional machinery, and those such as growth factors, their receptors, and second messengers involved in signal transduction responsible for regulating the activities of the housekeeping molecules. these molecular events and the cascade of processes that control them can be organized within the sequence of the cell cycle. in this brief overview, we illustrate these issues with a few examples taken from very recent discoveries of novel proteins that appear to have major regulatory roles. most of these results have been obtained with mammalian fibroblasts, but some have originated with discoveries made using two very different yeasts.
contemporary management of a potentially lethal fetal anomaly: a successful perinatal approach to epignathus. prenatal diagnosis of epignathus (a teratoma originating in the oropharynx) has been reported previously. however, in many of these cases the neonates succumbed to acute respiratory distress secondary to airway obstruction at the time of birth. we describe a case of antepartum diagnosis of epignathus using ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging as complementary techniques. the ability to accurately define the fetal anomaly permitted us to plan a unique strategy for peripartum management. after cesarean delivery of the infant from the uterus, the umbilical cord was not clamped and the fetoplacental circulation was left undisturbed. a tracheostomy was then performed, after which the umbilical cord was clamped and the infant was stabilized. several hours later, a debulking procedure was performed in the operating room to remove the tumor from its attachment to the bony palate. both mother and infant did well postoperatively. the ability to plan and perform a controlled tracheostomy while the infant remained oxygenated and ventilated proved to be lifesaving in this case.
progress in cardioprotection: the role of calcium antagonists. calcium antagonists are now widely used for the treatment of clinical hypertension and angina pectoris. they are efficacious for the treatment of vasospastic, fixed atherosclerotic and mixed angina; they reduce the incidence of silent ischemia; and they have been shown to reduce postmyocardial infarct angina. experimental data suggest that they may have certain cardioprotective properties in cases of acute myocardial ischemia and infarction, stunned myocardium, diastolic dysfunction, left ventricular hypertrophy and atherosclerosis. moreover, they have been shown to improve exercise performance, as well as the diastolic abnormalities in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. in animals, they may delay or reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary occlusion or coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion, and in low doses that do not alter the hemodynamic profile, they have been shown to enhance the return of ventricular function in animals with stunned myocardium. however, the early first-generation calcium antagonists (nifedipine, verapamil, diltiazem) have not been shown to reduce myocardial infarct size or to enhance survival in patients with acute myocardial infarction. there now are clinical studies that suggest that, unlike beta blockers or nitrates, nifedipine may slow the development of atherosclerotic progression in humans over a 2-year period, and it seems likely that in the 1990s there will be further expansion of the use of calcium antagonists for not only angina and hypertension but also for aspects of cardioprotection. that calcium antagonists may delay, prevent or possibly regress atherosclerotic lesions is an exciting possibility.
panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular problems: results from a community survey. follow-up studies of psychiatric patients with panic disorder have shown an abnormally high mortality rate in men due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. the authors report that in the new haven portion of the epidemiologic catchment area program the risk for stroke in persons with lifetime diagnoses of panic disorder was over twice that in persons with other psychiatric disorders or no psychiatric disorder. after adjustments for demographic differences between groups, the risk was even higher. while the results should be interpreted cautiously because of the small sample and absence of medical examinations, these findings are consistent with clinical studies showing an association between panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular events.
prognosis and prognostic factors of retinal infarction: a prospective cohort study. objective--to determine the prognosis and adverse prognostic factors in patients with retinal infarction due to presumed atheromatous thromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism. design--prospective cohort study. setting--university hospital departments of clinical neurology. patients--99 patients with retinal infarction, without prior stroke, referred to a single neurologist between 1976 and 1986 and evaluated and followed up prospectively until death or the end of 1986 (mean follow up 4.2 years). interventions--cerebral angiography (55 patients), aspirin treatment (37), oral anticoagulant treatment (eight), carotid endarterectomy (13), cardiac surgery (six), and peripheral vascular surgery (two). main outcome measures--death, stroke, coronary events, contralateral retinal infarction; survival analysis confined to 98 patients with retinal infarction due to presumed artheromatous thromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism (one patient with giant cell arteries excluded), and cox's proportional hazards regression analysis, including age as a prognostic factor. results--during follow up 29 patients died (21 of vascular causes and eight of non-vascular or unknown causes), 10 had a first ever stroke, 19 had a coronary event, and only one developed contralateral retinal infarction. a coronary event accounted for more than half (59%) of the deaths whereas stroke was the cause of only one death (3%). over the first five years after retinal infarction the actuarial average absolute risk of death was 8% per year; of stroke 2.5% per year (7.4% in the first year); of coronary events 5.3% per year, exceeding that of stroke; and of stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death 7.4% per year. prognostic factors associated with an increased risk of death were increasing age, peripheral vascular disease, cardiomegaly, and carotid bruit. adverse prognostic factors for serious vascular events were increasing age and carotid bruit for stroke, and increasing age, cardiomegaly, and carotid bruit both for coronary events and for stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death. conclusions--patients who present with retinal infarction due to presumed atherothromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism are at considerable risk of a coronary event. the risk of stroke, although high, is not so great. not all strokes occurring after retinal infarction relate directly to disease of the ipsilateral carotid system, although this is probably the most common cause. few patients experience contralateral retinal infarction. non-arteritic retinal infarction should be diagnosed or confirmed by an ophthalmologist, and the long term care of patients with the condition should involve a physician who has an active interest in managing vascular disease.
primary central nervous system lymphoma in a pediatric patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. treatment with radiation therapy. primary central nervous system (cns) lymphoma, an otherwise rare pediatric tumor, has been reported with increasing frequency in children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids). with current therapy, the outcome of this disease is invariably fatal. the authors present a case of primary cns lymphoma in a 3.5-year-old girl with aids who received treatment with total brain irradiation. after treatment, the patient's mental status improved, the seizures resolved, and she had no further progression of her neurologic symptoms until she died of pneumonia 6 months later. the autopsy revealed a necrotic mass at the site of the original tumor. the brain stem and spinal cord, unirradiated, contained lymphomatous lesions. the patient had extensive fibrinoid necrosis and leukoencephalopathy that were consistent with radiation-induced cns damage. coexisting aids encephalopathy also contributed to the patient's cns injury. effective palliation of cns lymphoma in children with aids may be obtained with cranial irradiation. pediatric aids patients may show more severe tissue effects from irradiation than unaffected children.
radionuclide imaging of asymptomatic versus symptomatic total knee arthroplasties. ninety-eight total knee prostheses were evaluated by roentgenograms and bone scans. fifty-three were asymptomatic, and 45 were symptomatic. thirteen prostheses required revision surgery. at a mean of 54 months, asymptomatic knee replacements generally showed only mild uptake in one or more zones. only one knee had uptake equal to surrounding bone. however, symptomatic knee replacements showed significantly greater uptake in the patella, femur, and medial and lateral tibial plateau regions (mann-whitney two-sample rank test). bone scans in the symptomatic group were obtained at a mean of 44 months. excluding those patients who had revision surgery, the differences remained significant. furthermore, symptomatic knee replacements with normal roentgenograms also had significantly greater uptake. radiolucent lines were noted in 30% of asymptomatic patients, whereas 29% of symptomatic knees had radiolucencies. radiolucencies were not generally associated with significantly greater uptake. lateral release had no effect on the patellar score.
cardiac contractility and conduction: a comparison of antihypertensives. the four classes of first-line antihypertensive agents recommended in the 1988 report of the joint national committee on detection, evaluation, and treatment of high blood pressure are reviewed here. particular consideration is given to the effects of these agents on heart rate, atrioventricular nodal conduction, and myocardial contractility in patients with other cardiovascular diseases. diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have no significant direct effects on cardiac function. beta-blockers inhibit catecholamine stimulation of the heart and may be particularly beneficial in treating patients with a history of myocardial infarction. calcium channel blockers reduce blood pressure by dilating arterial resistance vessels. they are structurally heterogeneous and highly selective in their sites of action. as a consequence, cardiac effects can be minimized by selecting a calcium channel blocker with more potent peripheral vasodilatory effects. a new calcium channel blocker, isradipine, currently undergoing clinical trials, is highly selective for arterial smooth muscle and appears to be a safe and effective antihypertensive agent.
lyme disease: recommendations for diagnosis and treatment the incidence and the endemic range of lyme disease in the united states have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in lyme, connecticut, in 1975. because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods, diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate. the antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly. they show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results. the clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of lyme disease are reviewed. the reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness.
a comparative analysis of three different techniques for the detection of breast cancer cells in bone marrow. three different methods, morphologic, immunocytochemic, and fluorescence activated cell sorter (fc) analysis, were compared with respect to their efficiency in detecting breast cancer cells in bone marrow. in the first series of experiments, the three techniques were compared using bone marrow cells artificially mixed with a known amount of breast cancer cells, whereas in a second series bone marrow from breast cancer patients with bone metastases were used. the following results were obtained: when mixtures of the first series were analyzed, fc analysis detected from 1% to 10% of breast cancer cells in bone marrow (0.2% was a border line value), the morphologic method detected from 0.05% to 10%, and the immunocytochemic method, which was clearly superior, detected breast cancer cells in all mixtures (from 0.00025% to 10%). it was noted that, with both the morphologic and immunocytochemic methods, the percentage of breast cancer cells detected was 2 to 360 times higher than the percentage of added cells, and enrichment was inversely proportional to the percentage of added cells. this result could be a result of different separation of cells during centrifugation due to the different density of breast cancer cells. the superiority of the immunocytochemic method was confirmed in the second series of experiments.
indapamide: a diuretic of choice for the treatment of hypertension? in recent years, the therapeutic approach to mild hypertension has evolved from a stepped care approach to one including varied, initial monotherapies, with the selection of drug based on factors present in an individual patient, followed by combination therapy. the greatest cumulative experience of the value of antihypertensive therapy has been obtained with diuretics. the reduction in risk of cardiovascular disease with successful antihypertensive therapy using conventional agents, including diuretics, is not as great as might have been anticipated by the magnitude of change in blood pressure. this could be due to antecedent cardiovascular injury prior to therapy or to risk factors induced by therapy. the recent introduction of a new generation of drugs with combined diuretic and hypotensive effects that reduce blood pressure without inducing the biochemical changes associated with thiazides, offers an opportunity to evaluate this question. indapamide is the first of this new generation to be released. its pharmacologic characteristics show that it has the prerequisites to be considered a first-line drug for use in hypertension. it meets the requirements of a phase ii or second generation drug in that it has similar efficacy, but less short term toxicity than first generation drugs. it has been introduced at a cost that is competitive with thiazides and potassium-sparing combination drugs and is cheaper than many other classes of antihypertensive drugs. the major caution in promoting its use is that its long term effect on morbidity and mortality in hypertensive disease has not yet been evaluated. in summary, this is a promising new drug that has the potential to replace first generation thiazides in the routine management of hypertension.
the role of the iliolumbar ligament in the lumbosacral junction. the biomechanical function of the iliolumbar ligament in the human lumbosacral junction was investigated by analyzing the three-dimensional movements of the whole lumbar and lumbo-sacral-ilium specimens. the experiment was repeated in the following three conditions: 1) intact iliolumbar ligament, 2) right iliolumbar ligament transected, and 3) bilateral iliolumbar ligaments transected. the representative values of the increased motions, compared with intact, after transection of the bilateral iliolumbar ligaments were 1.7 degrees (23%) in flexion, 1.1 degrees (20%) in extension, 0.3 degrees (18%) in axial rotation, and 1.2 degrees (29%) in lateral bending. the most restricted motion governed by the iliolumbar ligament in the lumbosacral junction was lateral bending. the bilateral iliolumbar ligament specimen could restrict flexion and extension of the lumbosacral junction, but the unilateral iliolumbar ligament preparation alone could not restrict these motions. the iliolumbar ligament also had the function of restricting the rotational movement of the lumbosacral junction.
primary biliary cirrhosis. quantitation of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial enzymes and correlation with disease progression. primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized by the presence of antimitochondrial antibodies. recently, six of the autoantigens have been identified as components of the 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase multienzyme complexes located within mammalian mitochondria. immunoblotting studies have shown that two of these components, namely e2 and protein x of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, are the major antigenic polypeptides recognized by autoantibodies. this study shows the development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect and quantitate antibodies to these two purified antigens. coded serum samples from 166 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, 140 patients with other liver and/or autoimmune disease, and 52 normal women were analyzed for reactivity using this immunoassay. these results indicate that this rapid, simple method has a 93% sensitivity and 96% specificity in the diagnosis of primary biliary cirrhosis. the titer of immunoglobulin g autoantibodies correlated not only with antimitochondrial antibody titer measured by indirect immunofluorescence (p less than 0.0001) but also with histological stage of disease (p less than 0.04) and prognostic biochemical variables such as higher serum bilirubin and lower serum albumin levels (p = 0.038 and 0.028, respectively). there was no significant correlation between titer of autoantibodies and serum globulin or immunoglobulin g levels, indicating that the positive correlation with disease progression was not secondary to hypergammaglobulinemia.
point mutation, allelic loss and increased methylation of c-ha-ras gene in human hepatocellular carcinoma. somatic alterations of the c-ha-ras gene were examined in 21 japanese patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. restriction endonuclease analysis by double digestion with mspi and hpaii revealed that dnas from two of 21 hepatocellular carcinoma tissues were affected by nucleotide substitution at the twelfth amino acid coding sequence of the c-ha-ras gene. dnas from cirrhotic noncancerous liver tissue, but not leukocytes, of one of these patients possessed the mutation, whereas dnas from noncirrhotic liver tissue and leukocytes of the other patient did not. in one of the nine patients harboring heterozygosity for c-ha-ras-related bamhi-fragments, the loss of one allele was demonstrated as a somatic change not only in dna from the tumor tissue but also in dna from the cirrhotic nontumorous tissue. in two of the 19 patients comparatively examined for digestion patterns of c-ha-ras locus with hpaii and mspi, extensive methylation was observed as a somatic modification in both dnas from the tumor and the cirrhotic nontumorous tissues. these results thus indicate that the genetic lesions affecting the c-ha-ras gene do occur in human hepatocellular carcinoma and probably serve as one of the multiple steps in the process of hepatic carcinogenesis.
basal cell-specific and hyperproliferation-related keratins in human breast cancer. in normal breast tissue and in noninvasive breast carcinomas, various keratin-14 antibodies were reactive predominantly with the basal/myoepithelial cell layer, although mainly in terminal and larger ducts luminal cells sometimes also were stained. a similar reaction pattern was found with an antibody directed against keratin 17, although this antibody was more often found negative than keratin 14 in the pre-existing myoepithelial cells in intraductal carcinomas. furthermore antibodies reactive with hyperproliferation-related keratins 6 and 16 were used. one of these (ll025) was completely negative in normal breast tissue and noninvasive breast carcinomas. however 10% of the invasive carcinomas were diffusely or focally positive with this latter antibody, while in 18 of 115 cases of invasive breast carcinomas studied, a basal cell phenotype was detected. a relatively high concordance was found between the carcinomas immunostaining with the basal cell and the hyperproliferation-related keratins, but not between these markers and the proliferation marker ki-67. this supports the conclusion that basal cells in breast cancer may show extensive proliferation, and that absence of ki-67 staining does not mean that (tumor) cells are not proliferating.
ventricular responses to mental stress testing in patients with coronary artery disease. pathophysiological implications. recent research examining the effects of mental stress on left ventricular wall motion and/or ejection fraction has used four techniques to measure contractile function: radionuclide ventriculography, a stationary nuclear probe, two-dimensional echocardiography, and an ambulatory radionuclide left ventricular function monitor. this research has consistently revealed that mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia occurs frequently during laboratory stress testing, particularly among patients with exercise-induced ischemia. this ischemia is usually silent, occurs at low heart rate elevations but with significant blood pressure increases compared with exercise-induced ischemia, and is frequently not detected when electrocardiographic markers are used alone. exploration of factors underlying differences between mental stress- and exercise-induced ischemia has provided a means for studying the complex pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia.
persistent segmental cutaneous anesthesia after a brown recluse spider bite. patients with brown recluse spider bites commonly suffer from pain, muscular aching, and a variety of local dysesthesias during the acute and resolution phases of toxin-induced injury. this is our first well-documented observation of persistent cutaneous anesthesia caused by a spider bite. the anesthetic area conformed to the distribution of a specific nerve, the transverse cervical cutaneous nerve. the identification of the spider as a brown recluse and the location of the bite over the nerve's usual pathway strongly suggest that the venom was responsible for this complication.
on-table pancreatography: importance in planning operative strategy. we describe our experience with 124 on-table pancreatograms performed during 117 operative procedures on 112 patients in a wide variety of clinical settings. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) was performed on 84 occasions with a 73 per cent success rate for visualization of the main pancreatic duct. on-table pancreatography (otp) was performed by one of five different techniques: retrograde, prograde or ambigrade ductography, cystography and ascending loopography after pancreaticojejunostomy. otp provided important information about the main pancreatic duct when endoscopic visualization was unsuccessful (n = 23), incomplete (n = 17) or not performed (n = 33); there was a failure rate of 4 per cent. in 35 patients either the additional information or discrepancies between ercp and otp findings resulted in a change of operative plan (19 extra procedures, 16 altered procedures). complete ductography was especially helpful in the 63 patients with chronic pancreatitis. otp is technically simple, free from complications and invaluable for planning operative strategy.
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men. an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35- to 76-year-old men. the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed. snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews. in 86 cases there was a history of 'habitual' (almost always or always) snoring, and 88 men snored 'often'. the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years. the mean body mass index (bmi) was 26.3 kg m-2. among the obese snorers (n = 82), apnoeas had been observed 'occasionally', 'often', or 'habitually' in 49 cases. death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 (40.4%) cases. cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never (p less than 0.05). 'habitual' snorers died more often while sleeping (p less than 0.05). habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death (p less than 0.01). the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer.
strongyloides stercoralis associated with a bleeding gastric ulcer. infection with the helminthic parasite, strongyloides stercoralis, is usually acquired by skin invasion (or occasionally via ingestion of larvae). after transformation to the adult form, the parasite preferentially localises in the small intestine, especially in the duodenal and jejunal part. a remarkable feature of strongyloides is its property of endogenous reinfection. in the case of an immunocompromised host a massive infection, called hyperinfections strongyloides, may occur. numerous gastrointestinal complications of strongyloides infections, sometimes with a lethal outcome, have been reported. the intestinal manifestations are usually limited to the small bowel, and rarely involve the stomach. we report a patient with complicated strongyloides infection of the stomach.
transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. the perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia (svt) is discussed. vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the svt. since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position, it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of svt. transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the svt and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables. the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating svt in the newborn are discussed.
cardiovascular sequelae of therapeutic thoracic radiation. mediastinal radiation damages endothelial cells, with resulting loss of capillaries and ischemia at the level of the microcirculation. these changes lead to increases in collagen and proliferation of fibrous tissue throughout the heart. cardiac dysfunction following radiotherapy is surprisingly common and may be due to pericardial, myocardial, valvular, conduction system, or coronary artery disease. greater awareness of cardiotoxicity has prompted changes in radiation techniques that appear to reduce clinical cardiovascular complications.
platelet monoamine oxidase activity in female migraine patients. platelet monoamine oxidase activity (mao) in a group (n = 17) of white, female migraineurs during an acute migraine attack was similar to both the values obtained for the same group of patients two to three weeks after the headache episode (pain-free period) and to the results obtained for a group (n = 18) of sex and race-matched, age-comparable, drug-free healthy volunteers (blind study; substrate p-tyramine, 38.7 +/- 5.7, 41.9 +/- 8.8 and 43.0 +/- 3.4 or p-methoxybenzylamine, 178.9 +/- 11.3, 177.2 +/- 6.9 and 181.0 +/- 9.7 nmole/hr/10(9) platelets +/- sd respectively). with each patient serving as its own control, mao activity during the migraine episode and when pain-free failed to show a significant trend. neither a number of other medical conditions nor the use of several medications appeared to significantly influence our results. the present work, while dealing only with a small but well defined patient population, argues against the possible usefulness of platelet mao activity as a biological marker for migraine headaches.
linking in accessory pathways. functional loss of antegrade preexcitation. background. concealed retrograde activation has been proposed as a mechanism for antegrade conduction block in the bundle branches and atrioventricular accessory pathways. we studied this hypothesis (linking) in 10 patients with the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in whom antegrade preexcitation could be persistently blocked by overdrive atrial pacing. methods and results. an atrial pacing protocol, with a decremental ramp followed by an incremental ramp, defined a range of atrial paced cycle lengths (linking window) associated with both persistent conduction and block in the accessory pathway. within the limits of the linking window, the ability of an atrial impulse to conduct over the accessory pathway was dependent on the preceding state (i.e., conduction or block). the observed linking window ranged from 70 to 290 msec (mean, 185 +/- 68 msec) and closely approximated the measured delay in retrograde activation of the accessory pathway during persistent antegrade block. the mean antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathways was long (486 +/- 156 msec), and in each case, it exceeded the antegrade refractory period of the normal atrioventricular pathway. critically timed premature ventricular extrastimuli, delivered while linking was maintained in the accessory pathway, were able to interrupt the linking and restore antegrade accessory pathway conduction. conclusions. these observations suggest that accessory pathway linking is associated with bidirectional block in the accessory pathway. the ability to initiate linking (and the stability of the phenomenon) depends on a critical relation between antegrade accessory pathway refractoriness and the magnitude of retrograde accessory pathway activation delay.
colorectal cancer: evidence for distinct genetic categories based on proximal or distal tumor location purpose: to examine studies of normal colon and colorectal cancer for evidence that the location of the primary tumor proximal or distal to the splenic flexure of the colon may determine distinct genetic categories of this disease. data identification: studies were identified through a manual search of journals, through medline, and through review of bibliographies in identified articles. study selection: approximately 300 articles were examined. about 150 articles were excluded because tumor location was not reported or was reported in a way that did not permit correlation with results or conclusions. data extraction: articles were selected either because the presentation of data permitted correlation of results with anatomic regions of the colon or because they were relevant to inherited colorectal cancer. results of the analysis: differences were noted in biologic properties of proximal and distal segments of normal fetal and adult colonic epithelium and in the epidemiologic, pathologic, cytogenetic, and molecular features of proximal and distal colorectal cancer. some differences correlated with the features of inherited colorectal cancer (proximal, nonpolyposis or distal, and polyposis forms). conclusions: developmental and biologic differences in proximal and distal colon may reflect differing susceptibilities to neoplastic transformation. differences in proximal and distal colorectal cancer suggest that each may arise through different pathogenetic mechanisms. proximal tumors appear to represent a genetically more stable form of the disease and may arise through the same mechanisms that underlie inherited nonpolyposis colon cancer. distal tumors show evidence of greater genetic instability and may develop through the same mechanisms that underlie polyposis-associated colorectal cancer syndromes.
a comparison of induction and maintenance therapy for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in childhood: results of a pediatric oncology group study. two hundred fifty-six children with previously untreated acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) were evaluated on a pediatric oncology group (pog) phase iii randomized trial of both induction and continuation chemotherapies. induction therapy compared vincristine, cytarabine, and dexamethasone (vadx) with daunorubicin, cytarabine, and thioguanine (dat). the complete remission (cr) rate using dat was superior (82% v 61%, p = .02). postremission therapy consisted of either "standard" two-cycle therapy or a more intensive four-cycle regimen given for 2 years. overall, there was no difference in outcome for patients randomized to either continuation regimen. the overall complete continuous remission rate (ccr) for the "best" induction/continuation therapy combination at 2 years was .50 (se = .06), at 3 years was .35 (.04), and at 4 years was .34 (.05). analysis of selected clinical and laboratory parameters demonstrated differences in induction responses favoring dat induction but did not impact eventual disease-free survival. there were two subgroups of patients who responded better to four-cycle continuation therapy. these were patients with french-american-british (fab) m1/m2 (2-year ccr was .20 v .44, p = .01) and patients older than 10 years at diagnosis (.32 v .62, p = .004).
pain relief achieved by transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and/or vibratory stimulation in a case of painful legs and moving toes. a patient is described with painful legs and moving toes. the pain had been occurring for more than 15 years, and a variety of therapies had been attempted with only partial, if any, success. only morphine had succeeded in relieving the pain, but it had to be discontinued to avoid tolerance and dependence. we devised a treatment consisting of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), vibratory stimulation (vs), and a combination of the two methods (tens + vs). tens brought about partial pain relief, but was less effective than vs; dual stimulation (tens + vs) led to complete alleviation of the pain. four months later, the patient was applying dual stimulation himself at home and was thus able to maintain complete relief with 3 or 4 weekly sessions. we suggest that dual stimulation results in a large-scale recruitment of large-diameter afferent fibres and may thus set up a powerful inhibitory control of nociception in our patient.
seizure outcome from anterior and complete corpus callosotomy. eighty patients underwent anterior corpus callosotomy for treatment of generalized seizures. the patients' mean age was 18.3 years (range 4 to 53 years); the mean age at seizure onset was 5.27 years (range 0.1 to 27 years). the mean intelligence quotient (iq) of 41 testable patients was 71.12 (range less than 30 to 114). the seizure outcome was as follows: 13% were seizure-free, 65% were significantly improved, and 22% were unchanged. ten patients subsequently underwent a second operation to complete the callosal sectioning which resulted in additional seizure improvement in only five of them. five complications resulted from 90 operations: two epidural hematomas, one delayed subdural hematoma, one bone-flap infection, and one postcallosotomy disconnection syndrome; two patients died. a younger age at onset of seizures, a higher iq, and generalized tonic-clonic, atonic, complex-partial, and mixed seizure types were associated with improved seizure outcome.
immune functions during treatment of growth hormone-deficient children with biosynthetic human growth hormone. immune functions, including cell surface markers, interleukin-2 receptor levels and responses of lymphocytes to mitogenic stimulation were evaluated in seven growth hormone deficient children ages 4-15 years, during treatment with biosynthetically derived human growth hormone. treatment resulted in a decrease in % b cells and in % t total cells and also decreases in most individual patients' mitogen responses and interleukin-2 receptor levels. most of the changes noted were transient and similar to those previously demonstrated during pituitary-derived human growth hormone treatment. although not resulting in overt clinical manifestations in our patients, we think that potential interactions between growth hormone and immune functions need to be considered by physicians treating children with growth hormone.
an assault on old friends: thiazide diuretics under siege. the adverse biochemical effects of thiazide use are of uncertain clinical significance. thiazides raise ldl cholesterol only slightly in long-term studies and do not decrease hdl cholesterol. the evidence linking thiazide-induced hypokalemia with arrhythmias and sudden death is tenuous at best. thiazide diuretics cause glucose intolerance, but no strong evidence has been advanced to suggest that this is dangerous. because these effects are probably related to hypokalemia, a randomized trial comparing the effects of thiazides with thiazides plus a potassium-sparing diuretic on ldl cholesterol, ectopy on 48 hour ambulatory cardiac monitoring, fasting glucose and insulin, and post-glucose tolerance glucose and insulin would be of interest. the most compelling reason for continuing to use thiazides is that they have been shown in long-term randomized studies to reduce cardiovascular risk. beta-blockers are the only other class of anti-hypertensive agent for which this claim can be made. the importance of long-term clinical trials in assessing the efficacy and toxicity of therapeutic agents is illustrated by the study that found clofibrate reduced cholesterol levels and coronary disease but increased total mortality. this finding remained undetected until a large randomized long-term trial was completed. thiazide diuretics have not reduced the rate of coronary disease to the degree expected from epidemiologic studies, but the short length of the randomized trials may be responsible. it is not clear that other anti-hypertensive agents will be superior. thiazides are less expensive than other anti-hypertensive agents being touted as metabolically safer; the cost issue is not a trivial matter.
use of a management plan for treating asthma in an emergency department. a standardised management protocol has been developed for the assessment and treatment of adults with acute asthma attending an emergency department. the management protocol consists of an assessment sheet for recording essential features of the history and examination findings and a flow diagram with guidelines for initial management that were based on spirometric recordings. the protocol was introduced at wellington hospital in 1986. the effect of this intervention was assessed by analysing emergency department records during the three months before and one year after the introduction of the protocol. the use of the assessment sheet improved history taking and led to the increased use of serial measures of airflow obstruction and improved documentation of follow up arrangements. the provision of management guidelines influenced the emphasis of management, including an increased use of corticosteroids intravenously and more frequent use of an additional dose of nebulised bronchodilator. in the light of the initial experience the protocol has been modified and its use either in an emergency department or in general practice is recommended.
landau-kleffner syndrome: a pharmacologic study of five cases. five children with landau-kleffner syndrome (epilepsy, acquired aphasia, and continuous spike-wave discharges during sleep), were treated with antiepileptic drugs (aeds), sleep-modifying drugs, and corticosteroids. the pharmacologic profiles differed from those observed in focal epilepsies, resembling instead those of certain generalized epilepsies, such as west or lennox-gastaut syndromes. phenobarbital (pb), carbamazepine (cbz), and phenytoin (pht) were ineffective or worsened the eeg and neuropsychological symptoms, whereas valproate (vpa), ethosuximide (esm), and benzodiazepines were partially or transiently efficacious. dextroamphetamine produced a dramatic but transient improvement in waking and sleep eeg in one of two children; aphasia did not change. corticosteroid treatment resulted in improved speech, suppression of seizures, and normalization of the eeg in three of three children. our own experience and data from the literature suggest that corticosteroids should be given in high doses as soon as the diagnosis is firmly established and should be continued in maintenance dose for several months or years to avoid escape. early diagnosis, before mutism or global deterioration develops, appears to be essential for effective therapy with minimal neuropsychological sequelae.
antivenom therapy in russell's viper bite. bleeding and renal failure are the two main manifestations responsible for the high morbidity and mortality in untreated russell's viper bite victims. this study was an effort to find prognostic factors and a practical therapeutic approach for the care of such patients. early detection of abnormalities in the clot quality test and/or evidence of systemic bleeding followed by immediate correction of the clotting defects using specific antivenom can reduce morbidity in russell's viper envenomation.
emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding. thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment, or both, failed to arrest variceal bleeding, or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts (epss) were studied. epss permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient. in this patient, the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography. esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14. three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed. the causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient. one patient was classified in child's category b and two in child's category c. thirty-two patients submitted to epss and were discharged alive. twelve of these patients subsequently died, at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure. four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure; two patients died of hepatomas; two, other neoplasia; three, hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers, and one patient, renal failure. analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent. the long term survival rates were fewer for patients with child's category c than for those with combined child's categories a and b (five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent; p less than 0.05). during the follow-up period, none of the patients had variceal bleeding. chronic encephalopathy developed in six, which was mild in three, moderate in one instance and severe in two. it developed soon after epss, with onset in the first month after discharge in three. thus, when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding, epss should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period.
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicating somatostatin therapy of cushing's syndrome in a patient with metastatic pancreatic islet cell carcinoma and zollinger-ellison syndrome. described is the case of a 73-yr-old woman with metastatic pancreatic islet carcinoma that manifested initially as zollinger-ellison syndrome followed by onset of endogenous cushing's syndrome, who developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while on therapy with a long-acting somatostatin analog. although p. carinii pneumonia has been observed in patients with cushing's syndrome associated with other conditions, this is the first reported case in a patient with zollinger-ellison syndrome. heightened awareness of the possibility of opportunistic infections in patients receiving somatostatin therapy for cushing's syndrome of any cause, particularly zollinger-ellison syndrome, may be warranted.
sexual and physical abuse in women with functional or organic gastrointestinal disorders. study objectives: to determine the prevalence of a history of sexual and physical abuse in women seen in a referral-based gastroenterology practice, to determine whether patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders report greater frequencies of abuse than do patients with organic gastrointestinal diseases, and to determine whether a history of abuse is associated with more symptom reporting and health care utilization. design: a consecutive sample of women seen in a university-based gastroenterology practice over a 2-month period was asked to complete a brief questionnaire. measurements: the self-administered questionnaire requested information about demographics, symptoms, health care utilization, and history of abuse. physicians indicated the primary diagnosis for each patient and whether she had ever discussed having been sexually or physically abused. results: of 206 patients, 89 (44%) reported a history of sexual or physical abuse in childhood or later in life; all but 1 of the physically abused patients had been sexually abused. almost one third of the abused patients had never discussed their experiences with anyone; only 17% had informed their doctors. patients with functional disorders were more likely than those with organic disease diagnoses to report a history of forced intercourse (odds ratio, 2.08; 95% ci, 1.03 to 4.21) and frequent physical abuse (odds ratio, 11.39; ci, 2.22 to 58.48), chronic or recurrent abdominal pain (odds ratio, 2.06; ci, 1.03 to 4.12), and more lifetime surgeries (2.7 compared with 2.0 surgeries; p less than 0.03). abused patients were more likely than nonabused patients to report pelvic pain (odds ratio, 4.05; ci, 1.41 to 11.69), multiple somatic symptoms (7.1 compared with 5.8 symptoms; p less than 0.001), and more lifetime surgeries (2.8 compared with 2.0 surgeries; p less than 0.01). conclusions: we found that a history of sexual and physical abuse is a frequent, yet hidden, experience in women seen in referral-based gastroenterology practice and is particularly common in those with functional gastrointestinal disorders. a history of abuse, regardless of diagnosis, is associated with greater risk for symptom reporting and lifetime surgeries.
low-dose aspirin does not influence the clinical course of women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension. the effect of low doses of aspirin on women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension was investigated by means of a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial. forty-seven women hospitalized at 30-36 weeks' gestation because of mild pregnancy-induced hypertension were treated by a daily dose of either 100 mg aspirin or placebo. the mean blood pressure values, rates of development of severe preeclampsia, gestational ages at delivery, newborn weights, and 5-minute apgar scores were similar in the aspirin-treated and the placebo-treated groups. we conclude that low-dose aspirin is not curative but is essentially a preventive treatment which, in order to be effective, should be started weeks before clinical signs of preeclampsia are present.
healing of experimental intestinal anastomoses. parameters for repair. anastomotic dehiscence remains a major complication in surgery of the large bowel, and studies on the healing sequence of experimental anastomoses are necessary to define underlying mechanisms and find ways to improve surgical outcome, particularly in high-risk situations. for the quantitative description of anastomotic repair, both mechanical and biochemical parameters are employed, each with their own limitations. mechanical parameters, either bursting pressure or breaking strength, only reflect growing anastomotic strength as long as disruption occurs within the anastomotic area, which is less than one week after surgery for the bursting pressure and probably up to two weeks for the breaking strength. the biochemical description of anastomotic repair has been limited to behavior of collagen, as represented by its rather unique constituent amino acid hydroxyproline. conclusions based on collagen concentrations--per unit weight--should be considered with caution since they may change as a consequence of changes in noncollagenous substances. in this respect, collagen content, per unit length, is probably a better parameter to describe anastomotic collagen levels. few investigations have addressed the quality of collagen (e.g., crosslinking or type). since, at this time, no distinct correlations have been demonstrated between development of mechanical strength or occurrence of leakage and collagen levels in the healing anastomosis, attention should not be restricted to a description of the quantity of collagen present: the quality of anastomotic collagen should be investigated, perhaps even more so.
papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas: radiological and pathological characteristics in 11 cases. clinical charts, radiological features, macroscopic and microscopic findings, and clinical follow-up data were retrospectively reviewed in 11 patients with papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas (pcnp). the patients were nine women and two men, aged from 13 to 51 years with a mean age of 25 years. the greatest diameter of the pcnps ranged from 2.5 cm to 14.0 cm with a mean size of 7.5 cm. six tumours were located in the tail of the pancreas, two in the body and three in the head. most patients complained of abdominal pain or a mass. ultrasonographic and/or computed tomography findings showed five solid, four mixed (solid and cystic) and two cystic types of tumour. angiographically, pcnp was either a hypovascular or mild hypervascular mass with a displacement of the surrounding vessels. no vascular encasement was seen. macroscopically all 11 tumours consisted of a well defined solid mass with degenerative change of various widths, including haemorrhage, necrosis or dystrophic calcification, and were represented by three radiological types of pcnp. the 11 patients with pcnp survived for from 3 to 253 months after curative resection without any signs of local recurrence or remote metastasis. pcnp usually affects the distal portion of the pancreas of young women. despite its huge size, pcnp should be explored with aggressive surgical intent because of the inherently good prognosis.
alteration of platelet serotonin in patients with chronic tension-type headache during cold pressor test. change of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-ht) concentrations in platelets from patients with chronic tension-type headache (th) and controls were observed during cold pressor test (cpt). before cold stimulation, 5-ht concentrations in platelets from patients with th were significantly lower than those found in controls. one minute after the start of cold stimulation, 5-ht levels in platelets from patients with th were significantly much lower than in the controls, as control levels rose and th levels fell. the results show that, under stress, the absorbance of 5-ht into the platelets in patients with th is reduced. it is suggested that, in patients with th, there are abnormalities of 5-ht uptake into platelets and factors which cause release of 5-ht from platelets.
treatment of congenital coronary arteriovenous malformations with micro-particle embolization. the successful treatment of a symptomatic coronary arteriovenous malformation (cavm) by a percutaneous embolization technique with micro-particles is described. objective evidence of ischemia and its subsequent disappearance after embolization is presented. the embolization technique and possible indications and contraindications are discussed.
the dynamics of antegrade cardioplegia with simultaneous coronary sinus occlusion. effects on aortic root infusion pressure, coronary sinus pressure, and myocardial cooling. it has been suggested that antegrade cardioplegia with coronary sinus occlusion improves homogeneous myocardial cooling and reduces myocardial injury in the presence of coronary artery occlusion. little data are available on the exact relationships among the basic elements or this intervention, including antegrade infusion rate, aortic root pressure, the degree of coronary sinus occlusion, coronary sinus pressure, and myocardial cooling. the purpose of this study was to determine these relationships and to provide some basic guidelines for better understanding of this intervention. twenty-two sheep were placed on cardiopulmonary bypass, the distal left anterior descending artery was occluded, and the proximal coronary sinus was snared. sixteen combinations of infusion rate (3, 5, 7, or 9 ml/kg/min) and coronary sinus occlusion (total, subtotal, or moderate occlusion or no occlusion) were adopted for each 2 minutes of antegrade cardioplegia, yielding 96 measurements. myocardial temperatures in the occluded and nonoccluded regions, aortic root infusion pressure, and coronary sinus pressure were measured during each infusion of cardioplegic solution. coronary sinus occlusion was then released, and the whole heart was reperfused for 30 minutes for another infusion of cardioplegic solution and measurements. results showed good degrees of linearity between infusion rate and aortic root infusion pressure for all coronary sinus occlusion and noninfusion groups (p less than 0.01). a positive effect of coronary sinus occlusion on aortic root infusion pressure was observed. the graded increases in infusion rate with various degrees of coronary sinus occlusion were constantly associated with elevation of coronary sinus pressure (p less than 0.01). it was also noted that myocardial temperatures in the region of the occluded left anterior descending artery were significantly lower in coronary sinus occlusion groups than in nonocclusion groups (p less than 0.01 or 0.05). myocardial temperature in the nonoccluded region decreased significantly with the stepwise increases in infusion rate (p less than 0.01), but not with the increases in coronary sinus occlusion (not significant). based on this and previous studies, we recommend that the induced coronary sinus pressure be safely maintained in the range of 25 to 35 mm hg and that further studies be focused on the infusion rate of 5 ml/kg/min with subtotal or total coronary sinus occlusion for the intervention of antegrade cardioplegia plus coronary sinus occlusion.
risk factors for metastases in patients with retinoblastoma. the study is based upon a review of data from 583 consecutive patients with retinoblastoma over the years 1956 to 1986. mean follow-up was 8 years, and median was 5.5 years. in 41 patients, metastases developed within 5 years. the influence of clinical and histopathologic risk factors on the occurrence of metastases was first analyzed by univariate tests. significant variables were then reevaluated using the cox proportional hazards method. four factors were found to be independently associated with the development of metastases: optic nerve invasion with and without involvement of the resection line, choroidal invasion and enucleation of an affected eye more than 120 days after initial diagnosis. the 5-year metastatic risks associated with these factors were 67%, 13%, 8%, and 4%, respectively. the relative risk estimate, calculated from the cox model, was used for a score classification with groups of low, medium, and high metastatic risk. the 5-year incidence of metastases was 4%, 43%, and 68%, respectively.
digital cutaneous vascular responses to histamine and neuropeptides in raynaud's phenomenon. the pathophysiology of raynaud's phenomenon is not well defined, but active cutaneous microvascular vasoconstriction and emptying must occur to account for the pallor and are reasons for studying the microvasculature. it has been proposed that there may be a defect in a local histamine vasodilator mechanism. the role of the peptidergic nervous system in raynaud's phenomenon has not been previously investigated. to study the histaminergic and peptidergic axes in raynaud's phenomenon, we measured the cutaneous microvascular responses of patients with raynaud's phenomenon to digital intradermal injections of saline, histamine, the histamine-releasing agent, compound 48/80, substance p, and calcitonin gene-related peptide. we compared these results with those obtained in normal subjects. intradermal cutaneous microvascular blood flow responses were quantified by planimetry and laser doppler flowmetry. the results show: a) that in primary raynaud's phenomenon there is no evidence of local deficiency in histamine release or insensitivity to histamine in the cutaneous microvasculature; and b) that patients with raynaud's phenomenon react normally to the neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance p, providing a rationale for treating raynaud's phenomenon with vasoactive peptides.
a comparison of host responses of the mongolian jird to infections of brugia malayi and b. pahangi. host responses of jirds receiving a single subcutaneous inoculation of subperiodic brugia malayi were compared with those of jirds similarly infected with b. pahangi. parasite burdens, lymphatic lesion severity, granulomatous reactivity, antibody responses to parasite antigens, and complete blood cell counts were assessed at 60 and 150 days post-inoculation. at 60 days post-inoculation, percentages of adults recovered at necropsy and lymphatic lesion severity were greater in b. pahangi-infected jirds. at 150 days post-inoculation, lesion severity and percentages of worms recovered were similar in both infections. no significant differences were noted in either infection in reactivity to homologous or heterologous parasite antigens in any parameter measured. similarities in the kinetics of the inflammatory reactivities of the 2 infections suggest that previous observations made in the jird-b. pahangi model could be utilized in designing studies using b. malayi. further, the more marked lesion severity observed in b. pahangi-infected jirds and the relative ease of maintaining b. pahangi in the laboratory support the continued use of this system as a conceptual model for the study of lymphatic lesion pathogenesis.
electron-microscopic identification of pseudoexfoliation material in extrabulbar tissue. the structure and distribution of pseudoexfoliation material in extrabulbar tissues from five eyes with typical unilateral intraocular pseudoexfoliation syndrome and two intraocularly unaffected fellow eyes were examined by transmission electron microscopy. in all seven eyes, unevenly distributed pseudoexfoliation aggregates were found in limbal conjunctivae, extraocular rectus and oblique muscles, orbital connective-tissue septa, and the walls of the posterior ciliary arteries, vortex veins, and central retinal vessels passing through the optic nerve sheaths. typical pseudoexfoliation fibers occurred in close association with connective-tissue components, especially elastic fibers; a moderate predisposition of pseudoexfoliation clumps to accumulate around blood vessels was observed. the findings of pseudoexfoliation material in similar extrabulbar locations in intraocularly uninvolved fellow eyes indicates that pseudoexfoliation fiber formation outside the globe precedes its intraocular manifestation. the intermingling of pseudoexfoliation fibers, microfibrils, and elastic and collagen fibers suggests that pseudoexfoliation fiber formation might result from a disordered synthesis and/or assembly of connective-tissue microfibrils.
retroperitoneal fibrosis after surgery for aortic aneurysm in a patient with periarteritis nodosa: successful treatment with corticosteroids. a 54-year-old man with hepatitis b virus-related periarteritis nodosa developed retroperitoneal fibrosis with bilateral hydronephrosis 2.5 months after placement of an aortobifemoral prosthesis for abdominal aortic aneurysm. retroperitoneal fibrosis disappeared after treatment with corticosteroids. this observation is interesting in the light of the hypothesis that retroperitoneal fibrosis is caused by vasculitis.
injuries of the external ear. ear injuries occur in people of all ages but predominate in active people such as wrestlers, boxers, and bike riders. the types and extent of injury are a function of the force causing the injury. shearing forces of moderate intensity cause hematoma formation, whereas greater force causes lacerations or even amputation. sharp objects cause lacerations determined by the force, direction, and point of impact. the high ratio of surface area to mass makes the auricle vulnerable to extremes of temperature. people participating in high-risk activities should wear protective headgear. the goal of treatment is to restore the normal contours while preventing infection. hematoma results in disfigurement by organization or chondritis. evacuation and pressure dressings using sterile technique correct the condition. second-degree burns are treated by regular cleansing and application of topical antimicrobials. deeper burns require debridement, biologic dressings, or burying the cartilage subcutaneously for later reconstruction. simple lacerations are closed under aseptic technique using either skin-to-skin sutures only or sutures of the skin combined with intercartilage sutures. extensive and complex lacerations require meticulous care to match all fragments and prevent infection or loss of tissue. bare cartilage must be covered with vascularized tissue. the treatment of total amputation is controversial. some advocate reattachment as a composite graft using intravenous low molecular weight dextrans and heparin as adjuvants. mladick dermabrades the amputated pinna, reattaches it with sutures, and then slips it into a pocket of elevated postauricular skin for 2 weeks. others urge microvascular reanastomosis of the small nutrient vessels. brent and byrd separate the cartilage from its overlying skin and envelope it first with vascularized temporoparietal fascia and then a split-thickness skin graft. chondritis is the most feared complication of injury or surgery of the pinna. it is an aggressive process, and prompt removal of pus and necrotic cartilage is required. exteriorization and removal of all cartilage is effective but disfiguring. removal of only affected cartilage and constant irrigation with antibiotic solutions is effective but requires prolonged hospitalization. iontophoresis of antibiotics into the auricle may be effective and conserve tissue. traumatic deformities are corrected with composite grafts from the opposite ear, costal cartilage, and local pedicled flaps.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
dna and rna flow cytometric study in multiple myeloma. clinical correlations. flow cytometric studies of cellular dna and rna content using the acridine-orange technique were conducted in 81 patients with multiple myeloma (mm). all patients were treated with the m-2 protocol and clinical response was evaluated according to the criteria of the chronic leukemia-myeloma task force. aneuploid dna stemlines were found in 38.2% of untreated patients with a median dna index (dna-i) of 1.15 in marrow aspirates and 1.22 in biopsy specimens. the median percentage of cells with abnormal dna content was 31.5 (aspirates) and 35 (biopsy specimens) and a positive correlation with the percentage of bone marrow plasma cells was observed. significantly higher proliferation (s-phase) was found in marrow biopsy specimens as compared with marrow aspirates. significantly higher rna content (rna index [rna-i]) was observed in aneuploid versus diploid patients in biopsy material. there was no difference in response to the memorial hospital m-2 protocol between diploid and aneuploid patients. in patients with dna-i greater than 1.15 remission duration was shorter as compared with dna-i less than or equal to 1.15. furthermore, no difference in cellular rna content was noted between responders and nonresponders. this study demonstrates no correlation between cellular rna content and response, as previously described for patients treated with vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone (vad), but dna aneuploidy appears to be an adverse prognostic factor in mm patients treated with the m-2 protocol. it also demonstrates that prognostic models for mm are not universal but depend on the chemotherapeutic regimen used.
treatment of duodenitis with cimetidine: a clinical, endoscopic, and histologic study. we studied the effectiveness of cimetidine in the treatment of endoscopically diagnosed duodenitis. sixty-nine patients with the solitary endoscopic finding of duodenitis (6% of 1,200 patients who underwent fiberoptic endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract in our unit over 3 years) were studied retrospectively: a good clinical response was apparent in 45 of 69 patients treated with cimetidine (65%), and a fair response in another four (6%). in a controlled, randomized prospective study, we evaluated the effectiveness of cimetidine in duodenitis. statistically significant improvement for the clinical and endoscopic scores was found in 10 patients treated with cimetidine (p less than 0.01). improvement in the histologic score did not reach statistical significance. no such improvement was demonstrated in seven placebo-treated patients. we believe that duodenitis is a "peptic syndrome," has a good response to cimetidine treatment, and behaves much like duodenal ulcer disease.
the effects of tumor necrosis factor on intestinal structure and metabolism. tumor necrosis factor (tnf), a polypeptide produced predominantly by activated macrophages, is an important mediator of sepsis. we analyzed the specific metabolic changes that occur in the gut following tnf administration. following general anesthesia, hemodynamic and metabolic indices were measured serially in control dogs (n = 7) and animals receiving a continuous sublethal intravenous infusion of tnf (0.57.10(5) iu/kg/6 hours, n = 7). during tnf infusion mean arterial pressure gradually decreased despite fluid administration, which maintained wedge pressure and cardiac index, which were similar to control animals. while tnf significantly reduced intestinal blood flow to 12 +/- 3 ml/min/kg compared to 28 +/- 3 ml/min/kg (p less than 0.01) in controls, intestinal oxygen consumption was maintained due to an increased extraction rate. despite hypoperfusion the intestinal exchange of metabolic substrate (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, alanine, glutamine, glutamate, and ammonia) was comparable between the control and tnf-infused animals. however, when substrate carbon balance across the intestinal tract was calculated, it appeared that there was a limitation in fuel availability in the tnf animals. this may be due to competition for fuel between the gut and other major organs. fuel limitation may jeopardize rapid cell proliferation and mucosal repair and with regional hypoperfusion these processes may account for the mucosal ulcerations observed at the termination of the study.
intravascular stents. general principles and status of lower-extremity arterial applications. the two major types of intravascular stents are balloon expandable and self-expanding. many animal and, more recently, clinical studies have begun to delineate the real and potential roles of stents. although the ideal intravascular stent does not exist, it is possible to identify characteristics of the hypothetical ideal stent. iliac and femoropopliteal arterial applications of metallic stents are reviewed. stents have proved useful in postangioplasty elastic recoil, in some cases of postangioplasty restenosis, and in angioplasty-induced dissection. their role in primary angioplasty procedures is still uncertain, although in iliac angioplasty the immediate hemodynamic effects of angioplasty plus stenting are superior to those of angioplasty alone. it is clear that metallic stents have not solved the problem of postangioplasty restenosis, as restenosis still occurs in a significant number of cases. this problem is particularly evident in the femoropopliteal stent procedures, in which angiographic restenosis (more than 50% single diameter stenosis) at 6 months after treatment has occurred in approximately 30% of cases. the existence of poststenting restenosis, which often involves the stented segment, underscores the need for better drug regimens in angioplasty and for better understanding of the intimal fibrocellular proliferative response of the vessel wall to injury. although potentially very useful, biodegradable stents are still a dream whose realization will demand the development of better materials.
tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy: a method to improve hearing in open technique tympanoplasty. canal wall-down technique tympanoplasty was indicated in about 41 per cent of our cases with chronic suppurative otitis media. in this series done during the last four years, of 576 tympanoplasties, 240 cases needed type iii tympanoplasty. in 145 cases, myringostapediopexy was carried out using temporalis fascia grafting over the head of the stapes. tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy was performed in the other 95 cases by using tragal cartilage and perichondrium over the stapes. a comparison between the results of both methods of grafting is discussed. improvement in hearing was achieved after tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy. this method proved to be suitable for those cases which need open technique tympanoplasty.
the growth inhibition of human breast cancer cells by a novel synthetic progestin involves the induction of transforming growth factor beta. recent experimental work has identified a novel intracellular binding site for the synthetic progestin, gestodene, that appears to be uniquely expressed in human breast cancer cells. gestodene is shown here to inhibit the growth of human breast cancer cells in a dose-dependent fashion, but has no effect on endocrine-responsive human endometrial cancer cells. gestodene induced a 90-fold increase in the secretion of transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta) by t47d human breast cancer cells. other synthetic progestins had no effect, indicating that this induction is mediated by the novel gestodene binding site and not by the conventional progesterone receptor. furthermore, in four breast cancer cell lines, the extent of induction of tgf-beta correlated with intracellular levels of gestodene binding site. no induction of tgf-beta was observed with the endometrial cancer line, hecl-b, which lacks the gestodene binding site, but which expresses high levels of progesterone receptor. the inhibition of growth of t47d cells by gestodene is partly reversible by a polyclonal antiserum to tgf-beta. these data indicate that the growth-inhibitory action of gestodene may be mediated in part by an autocrine induction of tgf-beta.
tetralogy of fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections: a rare but clinically important association. anomalous pulmonary venous connections were found in seven (0.6%) of 1183 patients with tetralogy of fallot. three patients had totally anomalous connections (one supracardiac, one direct to coronary sinus, and one mixed supracardiac and infracardiac) and four patients had partially anomalous pulmonary venous connections. all patients presented with the clinical features of tetralogy of fallot. anomalous pulmonary venous drainage was suspected clinically in only one patient in whom there was a scimitar sign on the chest radiograph. the exact diagnosis was established by cross sectional echocardiography (one), preoperative or postoperative angiography (five), or at necropsy (one). surgery was performed in six patients. total correction without re-routing of the anomalously draining veins was successful in all those with partially anomalous connections, with no significant long term sequelae (follow up median 17 years). of those with totally anomalous connections, the full diagnosis was made only at necropsy in one patient, successful one-stage correction was performed in one, and the other patient, who had partially obstructed mixed drainage, died shortly after one-stage correction. histological examination of the lung biopsy specimen in this patient showed grade 2 pulmonary vascular disease. tetralogy of fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections is a rare association. careful preoperative assessment is required in those with totally anomalous connections.
new findings in treatment of colon cancer. patients with colon cancer involving regional lymph nodes (stage c disease) have a 5-year survival rate of only 30% to 40%, and the majority die of recurrent disease. recent trials have shown increased survival rates with postoperative use of fluorouracil plus levamisole. the authors discuss these findings and the implications on treatment recommendations for stage c colon cancer.
chronic postoperative endophthalmitis associated with actinomyces species. actinomyces species, gram-positive, non-spore-forming anaerobic bacilli were isolated from intraocular fluid obtained from four otherwise healthy patients with a delayed onset of postoperative endophthalmitis. one patient had a mixed anaerobic infection with recovery of both actinomyces israelii and propionibacterium acnes. in all four patients, early postoperative visual acuity was good but was eventually markedly reduced by intraocular inflammation that was first observed between 21 days and 4 months following uneventful extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation. inflammation was characterized by anterior segment and vitreous cellular debris in all cases. all eyes responded to therapy that included intraocular, topical, and systemic antibiotics as well as pars plana vitrectomy and partial iridectomy. these cases further illustrate the need for microbiologic investigation, including anaerobic cultures, in all cases of chronic postoperative inflammation following extracapsular cataract extraction, regardless of the time of onset.
cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord: report of 2 unusual cases. we present 2 cases of spinal cord intramedullary cavernous hemangioma; 1 patient is the 1st reported case of multiple spinal cord lesions. diagnosis is greatly enhanced by the use of mri.
home blood pressure readings in borderline hypertensive patients. home blood pressure monitoring can provide valuable information for physicians managing borderline hypertensive patients. this study was conducted to compare office and home blood pressures in 36 borderline hypertensive subjects, and to determine the accuracy of the home monitoring unit used. the patients were very willing to record their home blood pressures for an extended period of time. the home blood pressure monitors were found to be quite accurate, and blood pressures measured at home were significantly lower than readings obtained in the office. in 39% (14 of 36) of the subjects studied, the average home blood pressures were more than 10 mmhg lower than their office readings. these findings support the hypothesis that home blood pressure monitoring can be useful in the management of borderline hypertensive patients.
correlation of abnormalities of interictal n-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine single-photon emission tomography with focus of seizure onset in complex partial seizure disorders. single-photon emission tomography (spect) scanning with n-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (imp) was performed on 23 patients with complex partial seizures undergoing long-term video electroencephalographic (eeg) seizure monitoring. twenty-one of the 23 patients had abnormalities on spect scanning consisting of areas of decreased activity reflecting diminished cerebral blood flow. in 15 of these 21 patients, there was good correlation between the site of the abnormality on spect scan and the site of origin of seizures monitored by eeg. of the six remaining patients, four had multifocal spect abnormalities, with one of the abnormal areas corresponding with an ictal site. the two remaining patients had spect abnormalities and major ictal eeg foci in entirely different areas. in contrast to the high proportion of abnormal spect scans, only 10 of 23 focal abnormalities were discovered on magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans. three patients who had seizures within 2 h of an initial scan were rescanned 4-5 h after injection. focal areas of increased blood flow were noted on all three scans, although not always at the ictal site. the spect scan appears to be useful in interictal localization of seizure foci. postictal scans may also be useful, although our numbers are too small to draw conclusions.
study of verbal description in neuropathic pain. the aim of this paper is to study the quality of verbal description and its diagnostic value in neuropathic pain. the verbal description of pain as assessed by a french adjective list questionnaire (qdsa) is compared between a group of 100 patients with neuropathic pain and a mixed group of 97 chronic benign and cancer non-neuropathic pain patients. seventeen descriptors of the 61 qdsa descriptors have a significant intergroup frequency difference. by principal component analysis and varimax rotation of the intercorrelation matrix of descriptors in the neuropathic group. 7 factors accounting for 66.0% of the total variance are derived. six factors reflect purely sensory or affective aspects of the pain experience. seven descriptors from the discriminant analysis function correctly assign 77% of neuropathic pain patients and 81% of the non-neuropathic pain patients. in a second neuropathic pain group of 32 patients, the discriminant function coefficient permits correct diagnostic categorization in 66% of the cases. implications for clinical practice and trials are discussed.
feasibility and safety of vagal stimulation in monkey model. the feasibility, safety, and preliminary effects of chronic vagal stimulation were studied in an aluminagel monkey model. pilot studies to perfect the equipment, determine stimulation thresholds, and insure the comfort and safety of the animals preceded this study. four monkeys were equipped with an indwelling, 2-electrode cuff (titanium bands spaced 7 mm apart; silicone encased; 1.5 cm total length) in contact around the right vagus nerve; avoidance of the cardiac branch was confirmed by electrocardiograms. after postsurgical recovery, the intact and awake animals received constant-current stimulation (5 ma; 83 hz, 143 hz, or 50-250 hz randomly; 0.5-ms pulse width) at the onset of every spontaneous seizure for the duration of the seizure or every 3 h for 40 s if stimulation had not occurred in the preceding hour. stimulation periods of 2-6 weeks, with differing levels of stimulation, were preceded and followed by at least a 2-week baseline period of no stimulation. during the stimulation periods, the seizure rate decreased to zero in two monkeys and the interseizure intervals became invariable in the remaining two monkeys. these effects carried over temporarily into the poststimulation baseline periods. vagal stimulation had no consistent effects on seizure severity or eeg interictal spikes. histological studies of six vagus nerves were unable to separate electrode cuff damage from any direct effects stimulation may have had on the nerves. although it appears that chronic vagal stimulation is feasible and that epileptogenic processes are influenced, the safety and efficacy of the procedure are still in question.
effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on lung vascular permeability and resistance. the effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on pulmonary vascular permeability and resistance was studied in 25 isolated blood-perfused dog lungs. vascular permeability, assessed by determining filtration coefficient (kf), and vascular resistances were measured at the beginning and end of the experiment. ischemia reperfusion was produced by occluding blood flow to the lung for 3 h and reperfusing for 1 h, whereas hypoxia reoxygenation was obtained by ventilating the lung with 95% n2-5% co2 for 3 h and then ventilating with 95% o2-5% co2 for 1 h with no interruption of perfusion. there was a significant increase in kf in both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation groups (51 and 85%, respectively), and total vascular resistance increased greatly in both groups (386 and 532%, respectively). two additional groups were also studied in which the ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation lungs were pretreated with allopurinol (20 micrograms/ml). the kf did not significantly increase in either the allopurinol ischemia reperfusion or the allopurinol hypoxia reoxygenation groups (22 and 6%, respectively). however, total vascular resistance significantly increased in both groups (239 and 224%, respectively). although vascular permeability is modestly increased by both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation, the predominant change in these conditions is the increased vascular resistance, which predominantly affects the postcapillary resistance and would result in a greater tendency for edema to develop in these slightly damaged lungs. allopurinol, which inhibits xanthine oxidase, attenuated the permeability changes in both groups and may be useful in preventing ischemia reperfusion injury in certain conditions.
a hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with cddp two-route chemotherapy--a case report. massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis. massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ii are reported.
differentiation in embryonal neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system. ninety-six embryonal neuroectodermal tumors were studied histologically and immunohistologically with a panel of antibodies including glial, neuronal, epithelial, mesodermal, and myelin markers. in 71 tumors there was glial and neuronal differentiation and expression both of an s (photoreceptor) antigen and vimentin. in five tumors there was only glial differentiation and in 20 tumors only neuronal differentiation. no reactivity for myelin and epithelial markers was found. histologic and immunohistologic findings identified various degrees of differentiation in different tumors, which was bipolar (glial and neuronal) in most tumors and unipolar in the remainder. the authors suggest that their findings may be the result of normal or aberrant oncogenic differentiation, agreeing with the nomenclature of the world health organization classification for these tumors with and the inclusion of a category for ependymoblastoma.
association of acute colonic pseudo-obstruction (ogilvie's syndrome) with herpes zoster. ogilvie's syndrome, or acute pseudo-obstruction of the colon is characterized by massive distension of the colon in the absence of organic distal obstruction. the syndrome is associated with various unrelated and, most often, extra-abdominal causes. an association between ogilvie's syndrome and herpes zoster has been reported only once, by ceccese et al. in 1985. we present a second such case. this patient did not show evidence of any active illness other than the involvement of the t10 dermatome by herpes zoster. the patient's symptoms of colonic obstruction subsided with resolution of the zosteriform rash.
heparin skin necrosis: delayed occurrence in a patient on hemodialysis. a case of skin necrosis in a patient receiving intravenous (iv) heparin during routine intermittent hemodialysis is reported. multiple erythematous, tender lesions developed over the abdomen and thighs and rapidly became necrotic. biopsies showed fibrin thrombi in the dermal venules and capillaries, but no cellular infiltrate. the patient was in her third month of regular hemodialysis. skin necrosis associated with the use of heparin usually occurs within 2 weeks of beginning heparin therapy and has not been reported in patients receiving heparin with hemodialysis. possible mechanisms, including acquired antithrombin iii deficiency leading to heparin-induced skin necrosis, are discussed.
nimodipine after resuscitation from out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation. a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized trial. one hundred fifty-five consecutive patients resuscitated after out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation by a physician-manned advanced life support unit were randomly assigned to receive nimodipine or placebo at a dosage of 10 micrograms/kg as an intravenous injection immediately after restoration of spontaneous circulation, followed by an infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg per minute for 24 hours. no significant difference was found in the 1-year survival rate of nimodipine-treated (30 [40%] of 75 patients) and placebo-treated patients (29 [36%] of 80 patients). recurrent ventricular fibrillation during the treatment occurred in one patient in the nimodipine group compared with 12 patients in the placebo group. in a post hoc analysis of patients with very long delays in advanced life support (more than 10 minutes), the 1-year survival rate was higher with nimodipine (eight [47%] of 17 patients) than with placebo (two [8%] of 26 patients). nimodipine may be of benefit in patients with delayed resuscitation.
cardiac arrhythmias from a malpositioned greenfield filter in a traumatic quadriplegic. a case study is presented of premature greenfield filter discharge with intracardiac migration and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias. these arrhythmias also interfered with the patient's transition from ventilatory support via orotracheal intubation to noninvasive positive airway pressure ventilatory support methods. the patient's arrhythmias were controlled by a demand cardiac pacemaker and cardiac glycoside therapy. no anticoagulants were used. she had no further filter migration nor significant complications for 16 months after hospital discharge.
secreted or nonsecreted forms of acidic fibroblast growth factor produced by transfected epithelial cells influence cell morphology, motility, and invasive potential. addition of exogenous acidic fibroblast growth factor (afgf) to nbt-ii epithelial carcinoma cells results in fibroblastic transformation and cell motility. we have generated afgf-producing nbt-ii cells by transfection with recombinant expression vectors containing human afgf cdna, or the human afgf cdna coupled to a signal peptide (sp) sequence. the effects of the nonsecreted and the secreted 16-kda growth factor on the morphology, motility, and cell invasive potential (gelatinase activity) were compared. afgf coupled to a sp was actively secreted out of the producing cells. the secretion of afgf was not necessary for induction of gelatinase activity, as this was observed in nbt-ii cells producing afgf with or without sp. production of afgf, whether secreted or not secreted, resulted in increased in vitro motility of most isolated clones; however, there was no correlation between afgf level and motility rate. the data suggest that expression of afgf in nbt-ii cells induces metastatic potential through an autocrine or intracrine mechanism.
pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies in patients with chronic cardiovascular and obstructive lung disease in the netherlands. differences in pneumococcal anticapsular antibody concentrations were assessed among patients with various chronic disorders and among young (25-35 years of age) and older adults (55-65 years). antibody concentrations were determined by elisa, using the whole 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine as antigen. no differences in mean or distribution of serum antibody concentrations were found among young adults (either healthy or asthmatic) or among older adults (healthy or with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease). each group included individuals with low antibody levels. therefore, the enhanced susceptibility to pneumococcal infections reported for some groups at risk, that is, elderly individuals and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease, cannot be attributed solely to low anticapsular antibody concentrations.
the iris in williams syndrome. forty three children with williams syndrome and 124 control subjects had their eyes photographed. the photographs were examined by three ophthalmologists and four geneticists of varying experience. a stellate pattern was noted more often in the irides of patients with williams syndrome (51%) than in those of the control subjects (12%), and was more difficult to detect, or was absent, in heavily pigmented irides. we conclude that the stellate pattern is of diagnostic importance, particularly if the pattern is carefully defined and the clinician is experienced.
breast self-examination in relation to the occurrence of advanced breast cancer. two hundred nine female enrollees of the group health cooperative of puget sound who developed advanced-stage breast cancer during the period 1982-1988 were interviewed about their practice of breast self-examination (bse), use of other breast cancer screening modalities, and medical and reproductive histories. each subject's description of how she performed the examination was scored according to her mention of up to 10 recommended bse techniques. a random sample of 433 women without advanced-stage breast cancer from the same population was interviewed for comparison. relative to women not practicing bse, the risk of advanced-stage breast cancer among bse users was 1.15 (95% confidence interval, 0.73-1.81). frequency of bse did not differ between women with advanced-stage breast cancer and control subjects, whether in all subjects or in subgroups defined by age, use of mammography, or frequency of clinical breast examinations. while self-described proficiency in bse was generally low in both case and control subjects, the small percentage of women reporting more thorough self-examinations, regardless of frequency, had about a 35% decrease in the occurrence of advanced-stage breast cancer compared to women who did not perform bse. these results suggest that, while carefully performed bse may avoid the development of some advanced-stage breast cancers, bse as practiced by most seattle-area women is of little or no benefit.
a consensus approach to electrolytes and blood pressure. could we all be right? this commentary sets forth the hypothesis that the putative beneficial or detrimental effects of specific electrolytes on blood pressure regulation in fact reflect highly integrated responses to interactions among these cationic and anionic species. in this paradigm, the impact of any given intake of an electrolyte on arterial pressure will be influenced by the concurrent consumption of other electrolytes. thus, the heterogeneous blood pressure response in humans to isolated manipulations of nutrients such as sodium, calcium, and potassium may be determined, in part, by the adequacy of the dietary intake of other mineral elements. if this hypothesis is validated by continued research in this area, we would have new strategies available to improve blood pressure control in humans. for example, treatment of "nacl sensitivity" in some humans might be more effectively approached by correcting dietary deficiencies of either potassium or calcium than by restricting dietary nacl.
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure: a nine-year follow-up study. seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed. thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy, and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm. eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure. in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone, total calcium, ionized calcium, alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product. histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery. postoperatively, four showed complete resolution and improvement. three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period. only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease, indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence. in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue. although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle. the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification. mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels. in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73, suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2.
role of tryptophan repeats and flanking amino acids in myb-dna interactions. the c-myb protooncogene codes for a sequence-specific dna-binding protein that appears to act as a transcriptional regulator and is highly conserved through evolution. the dna-binding domain of myb has been shown to contain three imperfectly conserved repeats of 52 amino acids that constitute the amino-terminal end. within each repeat, there are three tryptophans that are separated by 18 or 19 amino acids and are flanked by basic amino acids. to determine the role of tryptophans and the flanking basic amino acids in the dna-binding activity of myb proteins, we have selectively mutagenized individual tryptophans as well as some of the amino acid residues that flank these tryptophans. replacement of these tryptophans with glycine, proline, or arginine abolished the dna-binding activity whereas replacement with other aromatic amino acids or leucine or alanine did not appreciably affect this activity. on the other hand the replacement of two amino acids, asparagine and lysine, that flank the last tryptophan with acidic amino acids completely abolished their dna-binding activity. these results are consistent with a model we present in which the tryptophans form a hydrophobic scaffold that plays a crucial role in maintaining the helix-turn-helix structure of the dna binding domain. basic and polar amino acids adjacent to these tryptophans seem to participate directly in dna binding.
management of local and regional recurrence after mastectomy or breast-conserving treatment. locoregional failures after primary treatment for breast cancer include a diverse group of lesions that represent different categories of failures with various prognoses. although patients with chest wall recurrences and regional nodal failures after traditional radical surgery have a poor prognosis, many patients can still achieve a significant degree of palliation and even long-term survival or cure with carefully orchestrated multimodal treatment. in patients who have breast failures after breast-conservation surgery and radiation, long-term salvage and cure can be achieved for the majority with prompt detection and appropriate treatment, which, like treatment for primary breast cancer, includes a consideration not only of local control but also of the risk of subsequent systemic failure and its need for treatment.
giant cell tumor of bone. giant cell tumor is the second most common benign tumor of bone. plain radiographs may demonstrate distinctive features but can also be misleading. the diagnosis may be aided by the use of other imaging modalities, such as bone scan, computed tomography and angiography. the recurrence rate is high, but some of the newer treatments seem to be associated with better outcomes.
ataxia in myxoedema: a neurophysiological reassessment. in a long-standing case of myxoedema with ataxia and dysarthria, neurophysiological investigations were carried out to assess how much of the ataxic dysbasic syndrome depended on the slowness of mechanical contraction and how much resulted from primary cerebellar involvement. it was observed that the achilles reflexogram showed a marked prolongation of contraction and relaxation time and that in both quadriceps and triceps surae mechanical percussion induced a marked myxoedema and prolonged relaxation time. the emg of these muscles during voluntary contraction and stopping reaction detected an excessive recruitment of the antagonistic muscles, starting without any abnormal delay, a finding at variance with a typical cerebellar pattern. post-urographic analysis gave a pattern of oscillations still within the normal range. these findings suggest that the gait alterations of our patient depended on the increase in muscle contraction time and the consequent excessive recruitment of the antagonists.
reevaluation of the periodic acid-schiff stain in acute leukemia with immunophenotypic analyses. to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the periodic acid-schiff (pas) stain in the diagnosis of acute leukemia in light of the finer characterization of this disorder now available through immunophenotyping, we examined the blasts from 51 patients with newly diagnosed acute leukemia by morphological, cytochemical, and immunophenotypic analyses. the 51 patients represented every new case of acute leukemia subjected to cytochemical stains and flow cytometry between july 1987 and february 1989. by cell-surface marker analysis, 29 exhibited lymphocytic lineage, while 21 were myelocytic. one was mixed lineage. the pas positivity, defined by the presence of blocks or coarse granules in 5% or more of the blasts, was found in 15 of 29 lymphoblastic leukemias and in four of the myeloblastic leukemias. however, pas-positive lymphoblastic leukemias were negative with the other cytochemical stains: myeloperoxidase, sudan black b, and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase. the pas-positive myeloblastic leukemias were positive with at least one other stain. three cases of myeloblastic leukemia exhibited greater than 10% pas-positive blasts, with all three being acute monoblastic leukemia. thus, the sensitivity and specificity of the pas stain alone for lymphoblastic leukemia was 52% (15 true positives of 29) and 81% (four false positives), respectively. the sensitivity of a cytochemical-staining combination of pas positivity and myeloperoxidase, sudan black b, and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase negativity in defining cases of lymphoblastic leukemia remained at 52%; however, the specificity of this combination for lymphoblastic leukemia was 100% (no false positives). thus, a positive pas stain, in combination with negative myeloperoxidase, sudan black b, and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase stains, continues to have a diagnostic role in the distinction between lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemia, and greater immunologic sophistication serves to support this position.
understanding dizziness. how to decipher this nonspecific symptom. dizziness is a common but often nonspecific symptom. through careful history taking and physical examination, primary care physicians can usually determine the type of sensation (vertigo or light-headedness) and its source. although most causes of dizziness are benign, disorders of the central nervous system tend to be ominous and require immediate referral to a specialist.
termination of acute atrial fibrillation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome by procainamide and propafenone: importance of atrial fibrillatory cycle length. the effects of intravenous procainamide (n = 30) or propafenone (n = 25) were evaluated in 55 patients with acute atrial fibrillation and the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. all patients received either procainamide (12 to 15 mg/kg body weight) or propafenone (1 to 2 mg/kg) during sustained (greater than 10 min) atrial fibrillation or after termination of nonsustained atrial fibrillation. termination of atrial fibrillation was attributed to a drug if it occurred less than or equal to 15 min after infusion. measurements included mean cycle length of fibrillatory electrograms (mean aa interval) as measured at the high right atrium and shortest rr interval between pre-excited cycles during atrial fibrillation. atrial fibrillation terminated more frequently after procainamide administration (65%) than after propafenone (46%), although this difference was not significant. procainamide prolonged the shortest pre-excited rr interval (228 +/- 41 to 339 +/- 23 ms, p = 0.0001) as did propafenone (215 +/- 40 to 415 +/- 198 ms, p = 0.0001) and the magnitude of increase was greater for propafenone (p = 0.048). patients with sustained atrial fibrillation had shorter mean aa intervals than did their counterparts with nonsustained atrial fibrillation (123 +/- 25 versus 186 +/- 35 ms, p = 0.0001). termination of sustained atrial fibrillation by either drug was accompanied by prolongation of the mean aa interval but not necessarily by the shortest pre-excited rr interval. termination of atrial fibrillation was heralded by a 68% increase in the mean aa interval after procainamide administration compared with a 30% increase when the arrhythmia persisted. for propafenone the increases were 90% and 68%, respectively.
indwelling epidural catheters for pain control in gynecologic cancer patients. seven patients with severe pain caused by an advanced, incurable gynecologic malignancy were treated with an indwelling epidural catheter connected to an implantable subcutaneous port through which morphine was infused. there were few major complications associated with insertion or maintenance of the system. the average usage was 60 days, although the system functioned continuously for 6 months in one patient. pain distribution in these women ranged from the upper abdomen to the lower extremities. all patients, including one with liver metastases, reported good to excellent pain control with the epidural narcotics. two subjects with upper abdominal pain occasionally required supplemental oral oxycodone, but the other five patients had adequate pain relief with the epidural system alone. the indwelling epidural system provides excellent analgesia for patients with advanced, incurable gynecologic cancer.
pretreatment neuropsychological status and associated factors in children with primary brain tumors. we report on the neuropsychological status of 31 children with primary brain tumors who underwent assessment before receiving therapy. overall, the children performed within normal limits in all test areas. the exception was the group with anterior hemispheric tumors who demonstrated deficits in executive cognitive functions. also, when compared according to tumor type, children with midline tumors and hydrocephalus performed more poorly than others on measures of intelligence, executive abilities, visual-motor skills, and fine-motor functions. although one-half to two-thirds of the children with supratentorial midline and infratentorial tumors had cranial nerve, oculomotor, or cerebellar deficits, only the latter were associated with specific neuropsychological deficits (poorer performance on fine-motor and visual-motor tests). age did not appear to be a factor in these children's neuropsychological test performances.
hemifacial spasm caused by a spontaneous dissecting aneurysm of the vertebral artery. case report. the authors describe the first reported case of dissecting aneurysm presenting with hemifacial spasm. the patient was a 58-year-old woman with left hemifacial spasm of 2 years' duration. cranial nerve examination was otherwise normal and no other clinical symptoms were observed. vertebral angiography revealed a fusiform enlargement of the left vertebral artery and contrast medium remaining in the intramural false lumen in the venous phase. microvascular decompression of the facial nerve with wrapping of the aneurysm resulted in complete relief of the hemifacial spasm.
hemangiopericytoma of the sternum. hemangiopericytoma of the chest wall is a rare tumor. we describe a patient with malignant hemangiopericytoma of the sternum who was treated with primary surgical resection and discuss the clinical, radiographic, and histologic features of the case. surgical resection is the primary mode of therapy. high-dose radiotherapy and chemotherapy with a doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing combination may be warranted in certain cases.
insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia: role in hypertension, dyslipidemia, and coronary heart disease. resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and hyperinsulinemia may play a central role in the cause and clinical course of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, and coronary heart disease. this article summarizes the evidence in support of this general hypothesis.
functional outcomes following selective posterior rhizotomy in children with cerebral palsy. the recent increase in popularity of selective posterior rhizotomy demands objective documentation of surgical outcome. for this reason, the authors have analyzed the status of 25 children with spastic cerebral palsy before and after rhizotomy to determine the effects of this therapy on muscle tone, range of movement, and motor function. postoperative tests showed a reduction in muscle tone compared with preoperative assessments. range of motion in the lower extremities was significantly increased and improvements in functional gross motor skills were noted. an increase in range of motion in the knees and thighs during gait was detected in 18 ambulatory patients studied with computerized two-dimensional motion analysis. preliminary findings indicate that selective posterior rhizotomy reduced spasticity, thereby increasing range of motion and contributing to improvements in active functional mobility.
klinefelter's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter's syndrome is a rare entity. even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery. for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare. reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach.
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease. objective: the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease. design: prospective study with partially matched historical controls. setting: tertiary care community medical center. patients and methods: seven patients with advanced parkinson's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus. these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery. results: in the study group, six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions, lobar atelectasis, pneumonia, upper airway obstruction, and cardiac arrest. three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions, subsegmental atelectasis, purulent bronchitis, mild congestive heart failure, and atrial flutter/fibrillation. one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course. the first control group, whose only surgery was a craniotomy, had only one major complication. the second control group, the abdominal surgery control group, had one major and five minor complications. conclusion: the particular neurologic disease, its severity, and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group.
treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum with cyclosporine: results in seven patients. the mainstay of therapy for pyoderma gangrenosum has been corticosteroids, but many patients respond poorly. during the past 2 years we have treated seven patients who had pyoderma gangrenosum with cyclosporine after their condition proved resistant to conventional therapy. no evidence of permanent toxicity from cyclosporine was detected and treatment with other immunosuppressive agents was discontinued in five of seven cases. tuberculosis was reactivated in one patient. three patients had a remission, three had an intermediate response, and one did not respond. these results indicate that cyclosporine is useful in the treatment of patients with refractory pyoderma gangrenosum and suggest an immune mechanism in the pathogenesis of this disorder.
necrotizing angiopathy presenting with multifocal conduction blocks. we describe conduction block as an unusual electrophysiologic manifestation in a patient with necrotizing angiopathy. the patient developed subacute symptoms over a 1-month period consisting of progressive pain, tingling, and weakness of the lower extremities. physical examination revealed a pattern consistent with a polyneuropathy. electrodiagnostic studies provided evidence of a conduction block in the left ulnar nerve. pathologic studies confirmed the process to be a necrotizing angiopathy. this report establishes the role of conduction block in human nerve ischemia.
prediction of pregnancy-induced hypertensive disorders by angiotensin ii sensitivity and supine pressor test. an angiotensin ii sensitivity test and a supine pressor test were done consecutively at 28 weeks gestation in 90 healthy, normotensive nulliparous women. none of the supine pressor tests was positive, applying the predefined threshold of a rise of 20 mmhg in diastolic blood pressure after rolling over; nine tests were positive using a corrected 9 mmhg cut-off level. ten women had a positive angiotensin sensitivity test using a threshold of the effective pressor dose of 8 ng/kg/min; 22 women were positive using an effective pressor dose of less than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min. later in pregnancy 12 women (13%) developed pregnancy-induced hypertensive disease (pih). the specificity of both tests of predicting the development of pih was about 90%. the sensitivity of the angiotensin sensitivity test at the 10 ng/kg/min level was 92%. because of its low sensitivity of 25% the supine pressor test appears to have no value for the prediction of pih. there was a significant positive association between angiotensin ii refractoriness and birthweight.
management of macular puckers associated with retinal angiomas. monocular visual loss in four patients was caused by epiretinal macular membranes associated with peripheral retinal capillary angiomas or angioma-like lesions. three patients had solitary vascular lesions and one had two discrete vascular lesions. all patients were in good health, with no evidence of the von hippel-lindau syndrome. in three patients, spontaneous peeling of the macular membranes and visual improvement occurred 2 to 6 months after obliteration of the angioma-like lesions with cryotherapy (two patients), or cryotherapy combined with argon laser (one patient). the fourth patient underwent a vitrectomy 8 months after the macular pucker had failed to respond to treatment of the vascular lesion.
effects of anticonvulsant treatment and low levels of folate and thiamine on amine metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid. a total of 157 epileptic patients were studied with respect to (1) biogenic amine precursors and metabolites in the csf, (2) levels of folate and thiamine in the blood and csf, (3) length of treatment with phenytoin (pht), (4) pht intoxication, (5) cns atrophy. alterations in csf amine metabolite levels were related primarily to pht intoxication, and low csf folate and thiamine levels, but not to length of treatment or cns atrophy. pht intoxication increased csf 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5hiaa). low folate levels were associated with decreased csf 5hiaa and homovanillic acid, while low thiamine levels were associated with decreased csf 5hiaa and 3-methyoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol. it remains to be seen to what extent these alterations in biogenic amine metabolism, mediated by low cns vitamin levels, also lead to deficits in cerebral function.
asymptomatic and neurologically symptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals: prospective evaluation with cranial mr imaging. as part of a prospective multidisciplinary study of individuals seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), cranial magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was performed on 119 hiv-seropositive subjects (95 asymptomatic, 24 symptomatic) and the results were correlated with clinical data. mr images regarded as positive included those showing atrophy and/or white matter lesions. on the basis of these criteria, 96 subjects had normal mr images and 23 had abnormal images. results of chi 2 analysis revealed a statistically significant difference between the asymptomatic group (12 of 95 [13%] with abnormal scans) and the symptomatic group (11 of 24 [46%] with abnormal scans) (p = .001). in the asymptomatic group, positive mr images showed fewer, smaller, and/or less extensive abnormalities. the researchers conclude that (a) mr imaging can show indirect evidence of hiv infection early in the disease, but abnormalities will be minor and seen only in a small minority of neurologically asymptomatic subjects; (b) the appearance of clinically recognizable neurologic disease correlates with the mr imaging findings of increasingly severe brain atrophy and white matter lesions; and (c) in some hiv-seropositive subjects, despite neurologic disease, mr images can remain normal. results indicate that routine screening with cranial mr imaging of neurologically asymptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals would likely result in a low yield of positive findings.
the woolley and roe case. a reassessment. in 1953, two patients, cecil roe and albert woolley, sued their anaesthetist for alleged negligence because they had developed painful spastic paraparesis after spinal anaesthesia. the court found that phenol, which was used to sterilise the outside of the ampoules of local anaesthetic, had percolated the glass through invisible cracks, contaminating the solution, but that the anaesthetist could not have been aware of this risk. the case was important, despite the fact that judgement was in favour of the anaesthetist, because of the fears that it generated over the incidence of paralysis after spinal anaesthesia. the 'invisible crack' theory has been the subject of much scepticism. new information has been obtained, and the case re-examined objectively. the most probable source of contamination, which led to paralysis in the two patients, and in a third who received spinal anaesthesia on the same day, has been identified. a similar explanation may lie behind a number of other episodes of paralysis associated with spinal anaesthesia.
the ventilator-dependent child: issues in diagnosis and management. infants, children, and adolescents with chronic respiratory failure are surviving in increasing numbers and, thereby, producing a significant population of ventilator-dependent pediatric patients. chronic respiratory failure can occur as a complication of a wide variety of disease states; in pathophysiologic terms, it generally results from either decreased central nervous system output or inadequate force generated by the respiratory pump. its laboratory hallmark is hypercapnia with or without hypoxemia. stabilization of the patient with mechanical ventilatory support may permit long-term survival. management of the ventilator-dependent pediatric patient is a complex task that must begin with an accurate prognostication of each patient's survival and quality of life. once a decision is made concerning the practicality and appropriateness of long-term ventilatory support, informed choices must be made with respect to need for an artificial airway, mode of ventilation, and location of care. many younger patients, especially those with intrinsic lung disease (like bronchopulmonary dysplasia), may require a hospital setting for long-term care, whereas others with neuromuscular or central disorders may benefit from being discharged to home. the patient's family must be thoroughly educated in the child's care, and they must be involved in decision-making. a multidisciplinary team of physicians, therapists, nurses, and other professionals is required to deliver optimal care. outcome is good for most patients who are carefully selected.
high-resolution linkage mapping for susceptibility genes in human polygenic disease: insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and chromosome 11q. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) has a complex pattern of genetic inheritance. in addition to genes mapping to the major histocompatibility complex (mhc), several lines of evidence point to the existence of other genetic susceptibility factors. recent studies of the nonobese diabetic mouse (nod) model of iddm have suggested the presence, on mouse chromosome 9, of a susceptibility gene linked to the locus encoding the t-cell antigen, thy-1. a region on human chromosome 11q is syntenic to this region on mouse chromosome 9. we have used a set of polymorphic dna markers from chromosome 11q to investigate this region for linkage to a susceptibility gene in 81 multiplex diabetic pedigrees. the data were investigated by maximization of lod scores over genetic models and by multiple-locus affected-sib-pair analysis. we were able to exclude the presence of a susceptibility gene (location scores less than -2) throughout greater than 90% of the chromosome 11q homology region, under the assumption that the susceptibility factor would cause greater than 50% of affected sib pairs to share two alleles identical by descent. theoretical estimates of the power to map susceptibility genes with a high-resolution map of linked markers in a candidate region were made, using hla as a model locus. this result illustrates the feasibility that iddm linkage studies using mapped sets of polymorphic dna markers have, both for other areas of the genome in iddm and for other polygenic diseases. the analytic approaches introduced here will be useful for affected-sib-pair studies of other complex phenotypes.
vimentin is preferentially expressed in high-grade ductal and medullary, but not in lobular breast carcinomas. two hundred sixty-two invasive breast carcinomas dating from 1979 to 1984 were tested for vimentin and keratin on formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded sections. none of 26 lobular carcinomas expressed vimentin. vimentin expression in 10% or more of tumor cells was found in 78% of medullary (14 of 18), in 16% of ductal not otherwise specified (nos) (35 of 214), and in two of four mucinous carcinomas. a further seven tumors showed vimentin expression in less than 1% to 10% of the cells. vimentin was expressed in tumor cells of 30% (28 of 93) of grade iii invasive ductal nos carcinomas versus 7% (7 of 105) of grade ii and 0% of grade i carcinomas (0 of 10). vimentin was found to be preferentially expressed in tumors growing in broad, often anastomosing bands or sheets with extensive necrosis, scanty supportive stroma, high nuclear grade, and numerous mitoses. the authors conclude that vimentin is not detected in lobular carcinomas, but is preferentially expressed in medullary and in high-grade ductal nos breast carcinomas.
granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient. granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells. they are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis. rarely, patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia. the authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma. only five such cases have been reported previously. immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells.
association between primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension: analysis of its pathophysiology and clinical, laboratory and hemodynamic manifestations. to determine the clinical, laboratory and hemodynamic profile in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and associated portal hypertension, 7 new cases and 71 previously reported cases were analyzed. there was no gender predilection and the average age at diagnosis was 41 years. liver cirrhosis was the most frequent cause of hypertension (82%) and a surgical portosystemic shunt was present in 29%. almost invariably, portal hypertension either preceded or was diagnosed concurrently with pulmonary hypertension, favoring the hypothesis that in portal hypertension, the pulmonary vasculature may be exposed to vasoactive substances normally metabolized or produced by the diseased liver, possibly inducing vasoconstriction or direct toxic damage to the pulmonary arteries. clinically, exertional dyspnea was the most frequent presenting symptom (81%); other symptoms, such as syncope, chest pain and fatigue, were present in less than 33%. an accentuated pulmonary component of the second heart sound (82%) and a systolic murmur (69%) were the most common physical findings. at least 75% of these patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension on electrocardiography (right ventricular hypertrophy) or roentgenography (cardiomegaly or dilated main pulmonary arteries, or both). hemodynamic findings included severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure 59 +/- 19 mm hg) with normal pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and cardiac output. treatment was basically palliative and the mean and median survival times were 15 and 6 months, respectively. in brief, on the basis of clinical presentation and laboratory features, patients with combined primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension seldom represent a diagnostic challenge. further research is needed on treatment, which remains palliative. the survival rate is poor and worse than that seen in isolated primary pulmonary hypertension.
mental activity, adrenergic modulation, and cardiac arrhythmias in patients with heart disease. all of the electrophysiological mechanisms of arrhythmias are sensitive to the influences of the autonomic nervous system, particularly to its adrenergic limb. arrhythmogenic areas may also be dependent on the inhomogeneity of these influences because of their pathophysiological structure and/or the neurogenic or humoral nature of the vector of modulation. the complexity of the various possible scenarios, combined with the role of the rate dependence, explains why standardized protocols exploring the autonomic nervous system in clinical arrhythmias are difficult to define. invasive electrophysiology is not adapted to address the problem. isoprenaline infusion only reproduces the humoral adrenergic stimulation to which only a few types of arrhythmias are sensitive. the exercise test is a very complex investigation if the multiple parameters involved are considered. only a part of its limitations are obviated by the mental stress. under natural conditions, the neurogenic origin, the intensity of the sympathetic stimulation, and its suddenness are all critical factors responsible for severe tachyarrhythmias. arrhythmias of the long qt syndrome are particularly demonstrative of the importance of the autonomic nervous system, but this evidence can also be documented in more trivial circumstances of diseased or apparently undiseased hearts. exploring the autonomic nervous system behavior through heart rate variability in ambulatory recordings is the most recent and fruitful method of investigation. this nonprovocative approach has technical obstacles and practical and theoretical limitations related to the fundamental nature of the autonomic nervous system, which is both a marker of the cardiac status and a determinant of arrhythmias.
measurement of d-dimer in plasma as diagnostic aid in suspected pulmonary embolism the potential of plasma measurement of d-dimer (dd), a specific derivative of crosslinked fibrin, for diagnosis or exclusion of pulmonary embolism was investigated in a prospective series of 171 consecutive patients who attended an emergency department with suspected pulmonary embolism. the diagnosis was made or excluded by means of a clinical decision-making process which included clinical evaluation, ventilation-perfusion (vq) lung scan, and, as indicated, pulmonary angiography, venography, or non-invasive examination of the leg veins. pulmonary embolism was diagnosed by this process in 55 (32%) of 170 patients with sufficient data. all but 1 of these 55 patients had a dd concentration of 500 micrograms/l or above. the sensitivity and specificity of this cutoff concentration for the presence of pulmonary embolism were 98% and 39%, respectively, which give positive and negative predictive values of 44% and 98%. among the 115 patients (68%) who had inconclusive vq scans, 31 were diagnosed as having pulmonary embolism. 29 of the remaining 84 patients without pulmonary embolism had dd concentrations below 500 micrograms/l, which means that further diagnostic procedures could have been avoided in a quarter of the patients with inconclusive vq scans. the sensitivity of the plasma measurement of dd remained high even 3 and 7 days after presentation (96% and 93%). plasma measurement of dd therefore has a definite place in the diagnostic procedure for suspected acute pulmonary embolism in attenders at emergency departments: a concentration below 500 micrograms/l rules out the diagnosis.
primary intratemporal tumours of the facial nerve: diagnosis and treatment. benign primary tumours of the facial nerve are uncommon. a slowly progressive facial palsy should be considered the result of a nerve tumour until proven otherwise. improvements in diagnostic imaging techniques of the temporal bone have increased the possibility of a correct pre-operative diagnosis but facial nerve tumours remain a frequently ignored or misdiagnosed entity as a consequence of their subtle and protean clinical manifestations. a series of 12 cases of primary facial nerve tumours is presented. the clinical features, diagnostic modalities and treatment are discussed in relation to a review of the literature.
structural and functional integrity of ovarian tumor tissue obtained by ultrasonic aspiration. for patients with ovarian epithelial cancer, survival increases when residual disease approaches zero after surgical removal of the tumor. a previous study using the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator (cusa) (cavitron lasersonic corp., stamford, ct) showed the successful removal of ovarian tumors from areas often considered unresectable: the diaphragm, spleen, stomach, and small bowel. however, the cusa has not yet been approved by the food and drug administration for gynecologic surgery except on an experimental basis. this study was designed to test whether ultrasonic irradiation produced by the cusa caused alterations in cell structure or physiology of gynecologic tissue in adjacent areas. paired tumor samples, unirradiated and irradiated, were obtained from ten patients, and portions were sent for pathologic structural evaluation and physiologic tissue culture evaluation. histologic sections, stained with hematoxylin and eosin, showed that cusa irradiation produced only minor tissue distortion as observed under the light microscope. a correct diagnosis would have been made in all cases had only tissue fragments obtained from the cusa specimen trap been stained. for nine of ten patients, initial tumor cell viability was similar in the two specimen types. flow cytometric dna analysis confirmed that surgical methods produced matched samples. cells that survived high-frequency ultrasound appeared functionally intact. for five of eight patients, the cells from the cusa specimen traps survived and/or divided to a greater extent than those from the knife-dissected tumors. cells from both surgical routes attained a similar number of passages in culture. it seems reasonable to extrapolate these in vitro observations with pelvic tumor tissues to normal surrounding tissue left in situ. thus pelvic tissue is believed to be uninjured by cusa ultrasonic irradiation.
management of hypertension and cardiovascular risk. blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients is a surrogate for the real therapeutic goal of reducing the risks consequent to hypertension. this surrogate is convenient but its use may have important therapeutic implications. results of treatment with new antihypertensive agents, data from clinical trials, and insights into underlying mechanisms are reviewed. the overall success of antihypertensive therapy has been undeniable, but has reduced minimally the frequency of atherosclerosis and coronary events; metabolic disarray resulting from the agents used, especially thiazides and beta blockers, may have contributed to this. electrolyte abnormalities predispose to malignant arrhythmias and sudden death during myocardial infarction. left ventricular hypertrophy, a chief risk factor for coronary events, arrhythmias, and heart failure, responds selectively to antihypertensive agents. similarly, progression of renal injury may be sensitive to the agents used. obesity and hypertension frequently coexist. evidence is growing that atherogenic abnormalities common in obese patients, such as insulin resistance, also occur in the nonobese patient and are sensitive to the antihypertensive agent selected.
a new phantom for mammography. a new mammography phantom from du pont is described. it has a wider range of types of detail than in previous phantoms, including some which closely simulate breast tissues. experience of its use, and comparisons with an earlier ("barts") phantom, are reported. the du pont phantom appears to have greater sensitivity to changes in tube kv and focal spot size, and better discrimination between different film-screen combinations and between films from different breast screening centres.
life-threatening complications during anaesthesia in a patient with a ventriculo-atrial shunt and pulmonary hypertension [published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar;46(3):241] a 6-year-old patient with hydrocephalus who underwent revision of a ventriculo-atrial shunt is described. anaesthesia was complicated by the occurrence of systemic hypertension and arterial hypoxaemia. the patient was subsequently found to have pulmonary hypertension secondary to recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism. the pathophysiological mechanisms for the patient's deterioration are discussed and the anaesthetic management of children with pulmonary hypertension is outlined. it is concluded that patients with a ventriculo-atrial shunt who present for surgery should be screened carefully for the presence of pulmonary hypertension.
gastro-oesophageal reflux during elective laparoscopy. an oesophageal ph electrode was used to record gastro-oesophageal reflux in 73 women who had elective laparoscopy for various gynaecological procedures. no refluxes were recorded during the 63 procedures from which results could be analysed; the upper 95% confidence limit from this observation is 3 in 63 (4.8%). two of the excluded women refluxed during episodes of hiccough that occurred shortly after induction of anaesthesia. tracheal intubation may be required during laparoscopy, although the need to protect against the possibility of aspiration of gastric contents may not be a valid reason unless, with the same logic, it is suggested that all patients who hiccough should be intubated.
anti-gm1 igm antibodies in motor neuron disease and neuropathy. we found anti-gm1 igm antibodies in 23% of 56 patients with motor neuron disease (mnd), in 19% of 69 patients with neuropathy, and in 7% of 107 controls with other neurologic and nonneurologic diseases. most of these patients had anti-gm1 igm antibody titers of 1:80 or less; slightly higher antibody titers (up to 1:640) were found in 3 patients, 1 with mnd and 2 with neuropathy, and very high titers (1:20,480) in a patient with mnd and an igm kappa m protein that reacted with gm1, gd1b, and asialo gm1. six other patients with anti-gm1 igm that also bound to gd1b. reactivity with gd1b did not correlate with anti-gm1 titers but was only present in patients with mnd or neuropathy. anti-gm1 igm antibodies may be a normal constituent of the human antibody repertoire but their frequency and, in some cases, their levels are higher in patients with mnd and neuropathy. the origin and the pathogenetic role of these antibodies in neural impairment remain to be established.
an open trial of high-dosage antioxidants in early parkinson's disease. high dosages of tocopherol and ascorbate were administered to patients with early parkinson's disease as a preliminary open-labeled trial for the eventual controlled double-blind study evaluating antioxidants as a test of the endogenous toxin hypothesis of the etiology of parkinson's disease. the primary endpoint of the trial was the need to treat patients with levodopa. the time when levodopa became necessary in the treated patients was compared with another group of patients followed elsewhere and not taking antioxidants. the time when levodopa became necessary was extended by 2.5 y in the group taking antioxidants. the results of this pilot study suggest that the progression of parkinson's disease may be slowed by the administration of these antioxidants. a large multicenter, controlled clinical trial currently underway in north america evaluating tocopherol and deprenyl has the potential to confirm these results.
brief angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor treatment in young spontaneously hypertensive rats reduces blood pressure long-term our study examines the long-term cardiovascular effects after a brief period of angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor treatment in young spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). shr were treated with perindopril (3 mg/kg/day) by gavage from 2 to 6, from 6 to 10, or from 2 to 10 weeks of age. systolic blood pressure was measured in the tail weekly until 25 weeks of age. corresponding control groups received distilled water for the same periods. in each treatment group blood pressure was reduced significantly during treatment, rose when treatment stopped, but plateaued significantly below control shr thereafter. this difference in blood pressure at 25 weeks of age was due to reduced total peripheral resistance as determined by microsphere methods, but plasma renin activity and angiotensin ii concentrations were not different. cardiac hypertrophy was also reduced in treated shr. in a separate experiment, perindopril treatment from 6 to 10 weeks of age resulted in a significant reduction in the media/lumen ratios of mesenteric resistance vessels at 32 weeks of age. concomitant administration of angiotensin ii with perindopril from 6 to 10 weeks of age not only prevented the long-term effects on blood pressure seen with perindopril treatment alone but was associated with cardiovascular hypertrophy in excess of untreated control shr. finally, perindopril given for a shorter period (6 to 7 weeks) or later in life (20 to 24 weeks) had no significant long-term effects on blood pressure. these results demonstrate that a 4-week period of ace inhibitor treatment in young shr is sufficient to prevent the full expression of genetic hypertension and cardiovascular hypertrophy and that angiotensin ii might be important in the development of hypertension in this model, its role in later life being less important.
regulation of pancreastatin release from a human pancreatic carcinoid cell line in vitro. the objective of these experiments was to investigate the influence of activation of three second messenger systems (protein kinase-c, adenylate cyclase-camp, and calcium mobilization) on the secretion of pancreastatin (pst) and chromogranin-a (cga) by a human pancreatic carcinoid cell line (bon) in tissue culture. stimulation of protein kinase-c by a phorbol ester (0.025-7.5 microm) caused a significant dose-related release of pst (186 +/- 22-4271 +/- 228% over controls). treatment of bon cells with graded doses of 8-bromo-camp (0.14-3.0 mm) and isobutylmethylxanthine (ibmx; 0.01-1.0 mm) also stimulated a dose-related release of pst (107 +/- 22-284 +/- 28 and 16 +/- 12-1076 +/- 100% over controls, respectively). incubation of bon cells with ionomycin (0.134-13.4 microm) increased the release of pst (102 +/- 15-554 +/- 21% over controls) in a dose-related manner. a combination of ibmx and ionomycin resulted in an additive effect, whereas treatment with a phorbol ester plus ibmx resulted in a synergistic effect on pst release. pretreatment of bon cells with monensin, an agent that prevents processing of precursors to smaller peptides, significantly decreased pst, but not cga, secretion in response to phorbol ester or ionomycin. these findings indicate that protein kinase-c, camp, and ca2+ mobilization participate in cga and pst secretion. although the observation that secretions of pst and cga in response to theophylline are quantitatively associated, the absence of a quantitative relationship in the release patterns of pst and cga in response to phorbol ester and ionomycin do not support a simple precursor-product relationship between cga and pst. the monensin experiments are consistent with the notion that pst is derived from cga in bon cells.
genetic strategies of tumor suppression. the evaluation of the cancer cell is a complex multigene process. tumor suppressor genes that are lost or inactivated, as well as genes that are overexpressed, play key roles in tumor progression. the identification of overexpressed genes has been expedited by the presence of transforming genes in some animal retroviruses. however, tumor suppressor genes have been difficult to identify and isolate because of their loss or inactivation during tumorigenesis. by a variety of methods, summarized in this review, a few tumor suppressors have been cloned and characterized, and many more have been recognized indirectly. the general finding at this time is that the same tumor suppressors (and oncogenes) are found associated with many different tumors, that several different altered genes are found typically in the same tumors, and that other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes seem to be characteristically altered in particular tumor types as well. functions of tumor suppressor genes include the control of normal cell activities such as proliferation and differentiation as well as senescence, which is a special kind of differentiation in which cells lose their ability to divide. the genetic basis of senescence and identification of genes involved in overcoming senescence, leading to immortalization (i.e., indefinite growth potential), are important areas of current investigation. our laboratory is engaged in senescence/immortalization studies as a result of our discovery that normal human mammary epithelial cells can be immortalized by dna of the human papilloma virus. these new studies are summarized here.
conservative management or closed nailing for tibial shaft fractures. a randomised prospective trial. we performed a prospective randomised trial on matched groups of patients with displaced tibial shaft fractures to compare conservative treatment with closed intramedullary nailing. the results showed conclusively that intramedullary nailing gave more rapid union with less malunion and shortening. nailed patients had less time off work with a more predictable and rapid return to full function. we therefore consider that closed intramedullary nailing is the most efficient treatment for displaced fractures of the tibial shaft.
ciprofloxacin-resistant methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus in an acute-care hospital. use of ciprofloxacin as an alternative to vancomycin for treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus infection has been paralleled by the emergence of resistant strains. this phenomenon has also been noticed in our hospital. to confirm our observation, methicillin and ciprofloxacin susceptibilities were tested by disk diffusion and broth microdilution techniques. we studied 83 methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus isolates obtained from various sources over a 4-month period. ciprofloxacin resistance (mic, greater than 2 micrograms/ml) was detected in 69 isolates (83%). prior use of ciprofloxacin was reported for 24 of 69 patients with ciprofloxacin-resistant strains and 0 of 14 patients with ciprofloxacin-susceptible strains. the day of detection during the hospital stay and the location of the source patient were not significantly different between resistant and susceptible strains. bacteriophage typing showed a higher occurrence of nontypeable strains among ciprofloxacin-resistant strains (54%). review of our microbiology register showed a progressive increase in the rate of resistance to ciprofloxacin during the first year of use, with initial rates being about 10% and recent rates being higher than 80%. on the other hand, methicillin-susceptible s. aureus remained uniformly susceptible to ciprofloxacin (98.4%). we conclude that prior use of ciprofloxacin is an important factor for the selection of ciprofloxacin-resistant strains and that ciprofloxacin has limited usefulness against methicillin-resistant s. aureus.
the effect of omental pedicle graft transfer on spinal microcirculation and laminectomy membrane formation. the properties of the omentum and its effect on spinal neurologic disease was investigated. omental pedicle grafts were transferred to the laminectomized lumbar spines of nine neurologically normal dogs. grafts were placed on either the dura or the spinal cord. interruption of the graft's circulation was examined. to study the effect, the artery of the graft was injected with contrast and the graft-dura interface studied histologically. all injected specimens demonstrated vascular connections from the graft to the neural elements. the graft was found to decrease postoperative perineural scarring. the omentum appears to possess properties that could be applied to improve outcomes in spinal surgery.
internal capsule plaque and tonic spasms in multiple sclerosis. a patient developed hemilateral tonic spasms associated with a relapse of multiple sclerosis. an area of demyelination in the right internal capsule was observed on a magnetic resonance imaging scan. this lesion was not detectable on a second magnetic resonance imaging scan 10 months after the spasms had ceased. paroxysmal symptoms in multiple sclerosis may represent transient phenomena related to inflammation in acute plaques.
treatment of hepatolithiasis: improvement of result by a systematic approach. in previous decades the result of treatment of hepatolithiasis has been unsatisfactory. the incidence of residual stones after surgery might reach 77%. in the past 6 years we adopted a systematic approach comprised of accurate delineation of disease in the liver and biliary tract by direct cholangiography, ultrasonography, and computed tomography; tailored surgical treatment according to the extent of involvement of the liver and biliary tract; access to the intrahepatic ducts through the left duct or round ligament approach when there was difficulty with common bile duct exposure; routine use of flexible choledochoscopy; and application of electrohydraulic lithotripsy for large and impacted stones. complete stone clearance was achieved in 114 of 127 patients (89.8%). of those patients who had incomplete stone clearance, only six cases (4.7%) were related to technical failure of postoperative choledochoscopy. the incidence of stone recurrence was 15.8%, the lowest rate so far reported. it was the same regardless of whether a biliary drainage procedure had been performed, but the treatment for recurrent stones was facilitated by previous hepaticocutaneous jejunostomy. overall the surgical treatment required for stone recurrence was of a lesser magnitude than that in the past.
penetrating keratoplasty for keratoconus: complications and long-term success. a series of 100 penetrating keratoplasties for keratoconus performed between 1968 abd 1986 were reviewed for long-term results. the mean follow-up was 6.1 years with a range of 4-16 years. the systemic associations and the postoperative complications were analysed. grafting in cases associated with down's syndrome had a higher incidence of complications. 93% of grafts remained clear and 81% achieved a final corrected visual acuity of 6/12 or better. 21% of eyes developed a homograft reaction, with 50% of rejection episodes occurring in the first year after operation. factors associated with higher incidence of rejection included loose sutures, traumatic wound dehiscence, and grafts larger than 8.5 mm. only three grafts with rejection episodes lost graft clarity, while rejection in the rest was successfully reversed with topical steroid therapy. no relationship was found between donor age and long-term graft clarity.
low rate of treatment of hypercholesterolemia by cardiologists in patients with suspected and proven coronary artery disease. background. although specific guidelines for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia have been published, it is not known whether physicians treating patients likely to have lipid disorders have adopted the recommendations. methods and results. the approach of cardiologists to the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in a metropolitan teaching hospital was assessed by interviewing patients with chest pain who were admitted for coronary angiography in 1988-1989 and by measuring fasting blood lipid profiles. at 1 month and again 12-24 months later, patients were contacted by telephone to determine if there had been any changes in treatment. of 95 patients evaluated, 81 had coronary artery disease. only 17% of those with high levels of total cholesterol and/or low density lipoprotein cholesterol were being actively treated with diet and/or drugs. in the remaining patients, either lipid studies had not been done or abnormal results had not been addressed. there was little change in treatment approach during the month after the diagnostic procedure. furthermore, the experience was similar in those patients subjected to coronary revascularization. one to 2 years after the initial intervention, 69 of the original study group could be contacted again. although active dietary or pharmacological therapy was initiated in some individuals during this interval, it was stopped in others. thirty-five percent of hypercholesterolemic patients were receiving targeted therapy. conclusions. thus, only a small proportion of patients with documented coronary artery disease and hypercholesterolemia were being actively treated for their lipid disorder, suggesting that the published treatment guidelines have not yet been fully accepted. however, an encouraging improvement in frequency of treatment of hypercholesterolemia was documented during the 1-2-year observation period.
primary prevention of coronary artery disease through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic. primary prevention of coronary artery disease in children and young adults is important and can be instituted through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic. such a clinic was initiated at the medical college of georgia in march 1988. children whose total cholesterol level (tc) exceeded 200 mg/dl when screened by their primary care physician were referred with their siblings and parents for fasting lipid profile and further evaluation. data are available for the initial 21 families, including 30 children and 36 adults. the mean tc level was 258 mg/dl for index cases, 195 mg/dl for siblings, and 233 mg/dl for parents. follow-up data obtained after therapy at a mean of 6 months are available for 12 families, including 14 children and 14 adults. the mean change in tc was from 265 to 246 mg/dl; 82% of the patients had a decrease in tc. only one index case was documented as having neither a sibling nor a parent with an elevated cholesterol level. family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinics are important for the identification and treatment of hypercholesterolemia in asymptomatic young people when primary prevention is possible.
night waking during infancy: role of parental presence at bedtime. night waking occurs commonly in infants and young children. the goal of this study is to determine whether parents who report being present when their infant falls asleep at bedtime are more likely to report increased frequency of night waking by the infant. mothers were consecutively recruited when they brought their infants to the clinic for their 9-month well-child visit. a total of 122 mothers agreed to participate and completed a questionnaire consisting of closed-ended, forced choice questions about their infant's feeding and sleeping behavior, and demographic and psychosocial characteristics. for 33% of the mothers, a parent was routinely present when the infant went to sleep. the entire sample of infants averaged 4.1 night wakings during the week prior to questionnaire completion. infants whose parents were present at bedtime were significantly more likely to wake at night than infants whose parents were not present (6.2 vs 3.1, p = .01). frequent night waking (seven or more wakings in the prior week) occurred in 28% of the sample. more of the infants whose parents were present experienced frequent night waking compared with infants whose parents were not present (40% vs 22%, p less than .04). when potential confounding variables were controlled by multivariate analysis, parents being present when the child went to sleep was independently associated with night waking (p less than .03). the association of parental presence at bedtime and night waking has implications for preventing and managing disruptive night waking in infancy.
management of the pregnant patient with carcinoma of the breast. the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast during pregnancy poses a challenging dilemma. although once regarded as incurable, recent reports reveal similar long term survival rates for pregnant and nonpregnant patients who have carcinoma of the breast. when referred to a surgeon, a pregnant woman with a suspicious mammary mass deserves an expedient histologic diagnosis; delay may jeopardize the chances of survival. once the diagnosis is established, pregnant patients should be treated in a manner similar to nonpregnant patients because there is no evidence that carcinoma of the breast in pregnant women is biologically different than carcinoma of the breast in other premenopausal women. fears of fetal exposure to radiation should not deter a physician from ordering appropriate preoperative diagnostic tests to stage the patients. operation may be performed safely when general anesthesia is administered and postoperative adjuvant therapy should be administered when necessary. the involvement of multiple subspecialties in the management of these patients is highly recommended.
glucosephosphate isomerase as a csf marker for leptomeningeal metastasis. glucosephosphate isomerase (gpi), also known as phosphohexoisomerase, is a glycolytic enzyme whose activity is elevated in serum and csf of patients with primary and metastatic cns tumors. to improve the diagnostic accuracy of leptomeningeal metastasis (lm), we measured gpi levels in csf of 66 patients with cns or systemic malignancies with suspected lm. we determined gpi kinetically using a coupled enzyme reaction assay. there were 31 males and 35 females, aged 1 to seventy-six. thirty-one had primary brain tumors, and 35 had systemic cancer with suspected cns metastasis. we analyzed 95 samples; gpi values ranged from 0.85 to 329.0 u/l (normal, less than 20 u/l). compared with positive csf cytology and myelography, gpi sensitivity was 53.5% and specificity 92.1% for the group as a whole. there was a highly significant association between elevated csf gpi (greater than 20 u/l) and lm. the results were similar for both primary cns and systemic malignancies. although not very sensitive, an elevated csf gpi strongly suggests lm and may aid in early diagnosis of this serious complication of cancer.
biochemical evaluation of calcium stone patients: how soon can it be done after stone surgery/passage? biochemical evaluations were done two times for 29 outpatients with calcium stone disease, the first time within one month after surgical extraction or passage of stones and the second time two months or more later. classification of the etiologic basis for the stone disease was the same after both tests in 27 patients. in the other 2 patients the diagnosis was changed from renal to absorptive hypercalciuria. both of these patients had creatinine clearance rates less than 60 percent of normal during the first test. one also had multiple residual stones during both evaluations, and the second had a urinary tract infection during the first test that resolved with a normal creatinine clearance by the second test period. when nephrogenous cyclic adenosine monophosphate (campn) assays were done on fasting specimens in these patients, the results were consistent with absorptive hypercalciuria. almost all patients can be evaluated and placed in management programs within a few weeks after surgery. if campn assays are not done, patients with decreased renal function secondary to residual stones or infection can be tested at a later time.
cytomegalovirus infections in pediatric liver transplantation. from 1986 to 1989, 26 consecutive pediatric liver transplant recipients were followed up at the hospital for sick children, toronto, canada. the patients were reviewed to assess the incidence of infection with cytomegalovirus, the severity of disease, and the relationship of recipient and donor serostatus to cytomegalovirus disease. overall, the incidence of infection was 54% (14/26). over 90% of patients who were seropositive or whose donors were seropositive developed evidence of cytomegalovirus infection after transplantation. forty-three percent (6/14) of those with cytomegalovirus infections developed severe, fatal cytomegalovirus disease, despite treatment with immunoglobulins and ganciclovir (syntex laboratories inc, palo alto, calif) or foscarnet sodium (astra, pharmaceutical products inc, westborough, mass). of all posttransplant deaths, two thirds were associated with severe cytomegalovirus infection. cytomegalovirus-related deaths occurred in three of four seronegative patients with seropositive donors and three of six seropositive patients with seropositive donors. therefore, a seropositive donor appeared to be a major risk factor for severe cytomegalovirus disease.
electroencephalography laboratory diagnosis of prolonged qt interval. patients with prolongation of the qt interval are at risk for significant neurological morbidity and mortality secondary to ventricular tachyarrhythmias. these patients frequently undergo electroencephalographic (eeg) examination to evaluate episodes of loss of consciousness, which may be associated with convulsions. electrocardiogram recording as a part of the eeg is a simple and common practice, but analysis for possible qt prolongation is not routinely performed by electroencephalographers. this is, in part, due to the fact that while calculation of the corrected qt interval is straight forward, a calculator is generally required. a nomogram that is presented simplifies determination of the corrected qt interval, facilitating diagnosis of prolongation of the qt interval in the eeg laboratory.
an evolutionary perspective on salt, hypertension, and human genetic variability. natural selection for electrolyte conservation has likely been the norm throughout human evolutionary history. however, the current patterns of excessive dietary salt intake create the potential for salt overload. under these conditions, hypertension may be considered an expected pathological response to an evolutionarily new constraint. the transatlantic middle passage may have created a genetic bottleneck for salt conservation in african-americans. although the initial consequences of this important historical event probably constricted genetic variability and further magnified the potential for salt-sensitive hypertension, the middle passage undoubtedly also served as a more generalized major source of environmental stress and may have stimulated subsequent hereditary diversity in the survivors of this holocaust and their descendants. accelerated rates of mutation, genetic recombination, and transposable genetic elements in conjunction with enhanced opportunities for gene flow, new selective pressures, and drift have all contributed to the tremendous heterogeneity of contemporary african-americans. it is unlikely that a single genetic event, even of the severity of the middle passage, can account comprehensively for the apparent susceptibility of this macroethnic group to high blood pressure and hypertension.
total knee arthroplasty in patients after patellectomy. twenty-six total knee arthroplasties (tkas) were evaluated in 22 patients who had had a patellectomy. fourteen knees (12 patients) had a primary tka, and 12 patients had a revision tka. two patients in the revision group, whose prostheses failed, were from the primary tka group. the mean follow-up time was 8.5 years in the primary tka group and 7.6 years in the revision tka group. a group of 14 control knees with patellae was randomly generated but matched for prosthesis, diagnosis, surgeon, age, and time of surgery. this group was similarly evaluated with an average follow-up time of 6.9 years. the primary tka group had seven knees that were rated as good or excellent, two as fair, and three as poor. the control group had a significantly higher average rating than the primary tka group. in this group, there were 12 good or excellent knees, three fair, and none poor. postoperative pain, flexion contracture, extension lag, and range of motion all contributed significant information to the final score, whereas other variables (walking, function, strength, and instability) did not contribute any additional information. although higher overall scores may have been expected if the patients had patellae, the results during the follow-up examination were satisfactory and justified tka in these patients. in general, however, patients without patellae may be at a higher risk for failure of the prosthesis, as seen in five patients having primary tka and another ten patients with failed tka requiring revision.
pre-discharge immunization among hospitalized filipino children. identifying opportunities to vaccinate eligible children is one way to boost rates of immunization especially in countries with low immunization coverage and where convalescence from infectious illness is a contraindication to vaccination. to determine the safety and immunogenicity of diphtheria-tetanus toxoid-pertussis and oral polio immunization, 210 convalescing infants and children and community controls, comparable image and nutritional status, were studied. using the pertussis agglutination and poliovirus neutralization tests, quantitative serologic responses were compared in the two study groups. no significant differences in the incidence rates of febrile reactions (23% in controls; 28% in convalescents) of local reactions (92% in controls; 87% in convalescents) and of seroconversion (p greater than 0.05) were noted between the two groups. our investigation suggests that infants and children convalescing from infectious illnesses can be safely and effectively vaccinated. this study further suggests that hospitalization provides an opportunity to vaccinate such children.
strapless oral-nasal interface for positive-pressure ventilation. a custom-fabricated strapless oral-nasal interface (soni) is described. it was used in the long-term administration of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation (ippv) by 18 patients with paralytic or restrictive pulmonary insufficiency. this interface is an acrylic shell which is firmly fixed to an orthodontic bite plate; it is designed to form a seal over the nose and mouth for the entry of ippv. eight patients were ventilator dependent 24 hours a day. the ten patients who required only nocturnal aid had improvement in daytime arterial blood gases. although nine of these patients could manage less than 15 minutes of unassisted breathing (free time) supine, all slept supine on soni ippv. the 13 patients who underwent sleep monitoring maintained a mean oxygen saturation of 95.3% +/- 1.7% and acceptable end-tidal pco2 (30 to 45 mmhg). these 13 patients have used soni ippv for an average of 22 months (range = 3 to 63 months). impediments to successful long-term use of a soni include the presence of a hyperactive gag reflex or stimulation of excessive oral secretions. when combined with mouth ippv, glossopharyngeal breathing, the intermittent abdominal pressure ventilator, or the cuirass ventilator for daytime use, soni ippv is an option for the patient who prefers total ventilatory support by noninvasive means.
weight gain with breast cancer adjuvant treatment. available information suggests that individuals with breast cancer gain weight during adjuvant treatment and that this weight gain may be associated with poor prognosis. exploration of the factors which affect weight gain may aid in developing weight control interventions for these patients. to determine the factors which are associated with weight gain, 32 women undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy were followed over 2 years from the beginning of adjuvant treatment. measures of psychologic functioning and self-reports of exercise levels and eating were assessed every 2 months during the course of treatment. sixty-nine percent of the women gained weight over treatment, resulting in a significant weight gain for the group as a whole. weight gain was correlated positively with several psychologic measures but not with assessed biologic measures. a multiple-regression equation using psychologic/behavioural measures of emotional discharge, logical analysis, affective regulation, interpersonal sensitivity, average number of symptoms, and obsessive compulsiveness accounted for 58% of the variance in overall weight gain. at 2 years of follow-up, 27 women had gained weight for an average of 6.03 kg. the coping style of logical analysis emerged as a significant predictor of disease recurrence, accounting for 28% of the variance in weight gain at 2 years. the results are discussed in terms of identification of women likely to gain weight during adjuvant treatment, directions for future research, and development of interventions to control weight gain.
intercostal arteriovenous fistula due to pleural biopsy a 32 year old woman had a pleural biopsy for a left pleural effusion, which showed caseating granuloma typical of tuberculosis. when the fourth biopsy specimen was removed considerable bleeding occurred from the puncture site. four days later a bruit was audible over the punctured area, radiating to the back. eight days after the procedure the patient had a massive bleed into the left pleural space. selective aortic angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula between the 9th intercostal artery and vein and a pseudoaneurysm in the intercostal punctured area. thoracotomy showed bleeding from the site of the pleural biopsy. the intercostal vessels were ligated and pleural decortication was performed, and the patient recovered uneventfully.
soft-tissue tumor with abnormal amianthoid collagen fibers. electron microscopic examination of a solitary soft-tissue tumor from the face demonstrated large areas with abnormal amianthoid collagen fibers in the neoplasm. the lesion was classified as a benign neoplasm of myofibroblasts and tentatively named a myofibroblastoma. the significance of the amianthoid collagen fibers is unknown. normal native collagen fibers were found in some parts of the neoplasm.
massive increases in extracellular potassium and the indiscriminate release of glutamate following concussive brain injury. an increase in extracellular k+ concentration ([k+]c) of the rat hippocampus following fluid-percussion concussive brain injury was demonstrated with microdialysis. the role of neuronal discharge was examined with in situ administration of 0.1 mm tetrodotoxin, a potent depressant of neuronal discharges, and of 0.5 to 20 mm cobalt, a blocker of ca++ channels. while a small short-lasting [k+]c increase (1.40- to 2.15-fold) was observed after a mild insult, a more pronounced longer-lasting increase (4.28- to 5.90-fold) was induced without overt morphological damage as the severity of injury rose above a certain threshold (unconscious for 200 to 250 seconds). the small short-lasting increase was reduced with prior administration of tetrodotoxin but not with cobalt, indicating that neuronal discharges are the source of this increase. in contrast, the larger longer-lasting increase was resistant to tetrodotoxin and partially dependent on ca++, suggesting that neurotransmitter release is involved. in order to test the hypothesis that the release of the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate mediates this increase in [k+]c, the extracellular concentration of glutamate ([glu]c) was measured along with [k+]c. the results indicate that a relatively specific increase in [glu]c (as compared with other amino acids) was induced concomitantly with the increase in [k+]c. furthermore, the in situ administration of 1 to 25 mm kynurenic acid, an excitatory amino acid antagonist, effectively attenuated the increase in [k+]c. a dose-response curve suggested that a maximum effect of kynurenic acid is obtained at a concentration that substantially blocks all receptor subtypes of excitatory amino acids. these data suggest that concussive brain injury causes a massive k+ flux which is likely to be related to an indiscriminate release of excitatory amino acids occurring immediately after brain injury.
squamous carcinoma of the posterior pharyngeal wall. we have reviewed a 12-year experience with 295 patients treated for squamous carcinoma of the pharynx in order to focus on 78 patients whose lesions arose in the posterior wall. surgery was the definitive therapy for the primary tumor in 57 (73%), including 3 treatment groups. thirty-two patients had limited resections that preserved the larynx, involving local excision (7 patients), anterior pharyngotomy (7 patients), lateral pharyngotomy (6 patients), median labiomandibular glossotomy (6 patients), or median mandibulotomy with paralingual extension (6 patients). the second group consisted of 21 patients with more extensive tumors who required a laryngectomy and complex reconstruction, often with postoperative radiotherapy. finally, there were four patients who developed metachronous second primaries in the pharynx subsequent to a laryngectomy. all required flap reconstruction. of the 21 patients whose primary treatment was radiotherapy, 5 had lesions that were implanted after access was provided by a mandibulotomy. cumulative 5-year survival was 32% and ranged from 44% in those with favorable lesions to 15% in those with extensive tumors. our experience highlights the variety of treatment approaches available in patients with pharyngeal carcinomas confined to the posterior wall. surgery in this setting carries acceptable morbidity and yields survival rates that compare favorably with those achieved by external radiation therapy alone. results in patients with extensive lesions still leave much to be desired, despite radical surgery and aggressive radiotherapy. innovative brachytherapy techniques using surgery for access deserve further investigation.
prognostic factors in stage ib squamous cervical cancer patients with low risk for recurrence. about one-half of cervical cancer patients whose tumors recur after radical surgery have negative lymph nodes and clear resection margins. we evaluated 95 patients with squamous cell tumors who underwent radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy between january 1975 and december 1985 and who were thought to be at low risk for recurrence to see whether other clinical or histopathologic factors were predictive of tumor recurrence. detailed retrospective record review and complete pathology review were accomplished for each case. the 5-year actuarial survival rate was 89%. nine patients developed recurrent disease (9.5%), of whom eight died. several clinical features were evaluated as possible prognostic factors: patient age (p = .26), patient race (p = .60), cervical diameter (p = .24), extent of gross cervical involvement (p = .36), and presence of contact bleeding (p = .82). histopathologic features were examined: depth of invasion (p = .31), number of mitoses (p = .42), character of the tumor-stromal border (p = .15), histologic differentiation (p = .02), lymph-vascular space invasion (p = .56), and width of tumor (p = .23). depth of invasion did correlate with increasing tumor width (p less than .001). once node- and margin-positive patients are excluded, differentiation may be the only feature useful in identifying patients at risk for recurrence. because almost one-half of our patients had poorly differentiated tumors, sole use of this feature as a criterion for adjuvant therapy would have resulted in overtreatment of low-risk patients.
the recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation. applications of muscle flap closure. perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment. thirteen consecutive patients (aged 27 to 74 years; mean, 48 years) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage. three risk factors were identified: preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy, resection for recurrent carcinoma, and inflammatory bowel disease. a total of 19 muscle flaps (11 gracilis, five gluteal thigh, two gluteus maximus, and one rectus abdominis) were used to close these wounds. during an average 3.5-year follow-up, four (31%) minor complications and one (8%) recurrence were noted to occur. muscle flaps provide safe, effective, single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds.
effects of vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl gaba) on neurotransmission-related amino acids and on gaba and benzodiazepine receptor binding in rats. the effect of 12-day intraperitoneal i.p. administration of vigabatrin (gvg, gamma-vinyl gaba) to rats on the neurotransmission-related amino acids in various brain regions (cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and spinal cord), cisternal fluid (csf) and blood was studied. results showed that gvg administration increased the levels of gaba in cortical and subcortical regions of the brain and csf without affecting gaba and benzodiazepine receptors in the cortex. in addition, a dose-dependent decrease was noted in the concentration of glutamate in the hippocampus and in the concentrations of aspartate and glutamine in the cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. the changes in the levels of amino acids in the brain, except for that of gaba, were not reflected in the csf, however, and the levels of amino acids in discrete brain regions did not show any correlation with those in the serum or in the csf. the results suggest that gvg administration might suppress development and spread of seizures not only by elevating the level of the inhibitory amino acid gaba, but also by decreasing the levels of excitatory amino acids in the brain.
effects of treatment on long-term survivors with malignant astrocytomas. we reviewed the records of 160 consecutive patients with glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma to evaluate the long-term consequences of radiation therapy and chemotherapy. we defined long-term survivors as those patients with glioblastoma or anaplastic astrocytoma who lived at least 100% longer than median survival of historical controls, for example, 2 years for patients with glioblastoma and 4 years for patients with anaplastic astrocytoma. there were 9 (5.6%) long-term survivors. three (30%) became demented and died without evidence of tumor recurrence. one, after survival of 10 years, died of tumor recurrence. of the remaining survivors, 2 (22%) have significantly impaired short-term memory function and other neurological deficits such as gait apraxia. three (30%) can function independently. it is likely but cannot be proved that it is radiotherapy and not chemotherapy that is the causal factor of this dismal therapeutic outcome. our study suggests restraint in the use of radiotherapy for patients with brain tumors that have more favorable prognoses than glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas, such as low-grade astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas.
assessment of the biliary tract after liver transplantation: t tube cholangiography or iodida scanning. biliary tract obstruction or anastomotic leakage are common problems following liver transplantation. in a sequential study, 31 patients with a liver transplant were investigated by 99mtc-iodida (iodida) scanning and t tube cholangiography (ttc) and the results were compared with clinical outcome. seven patients had an extrahepatic biliary obstruction and one patient had a biliary leak. in the detection of biliary complications ttc and iodida scanning were similar in terms of sensitivity (63 per cent for both) but ttc had a better specificity (79 per cent versus 60 per cent) and accuracy (74 per cent versus 60 per cent) than iodida scanning. when liver function was taken into account, the diagnostic efficacy of both tests in patients with bilirubin levels of less than 200 mumol/l was similar. with levels greater than 200 mumol/l there was a greater number of false positive results with iodida scanning (12 per cent versus 54 per cent). the only significant biliary leak was clearly detected by ttc but not iodida scanning. ttc remains the more effective way of evaluating the biliary tract after transplantation. iodida scanning has limited value when bilirubin levels are elevated, but may provide additional information about blood supply, hepatocyte function and intrahepatic cholestasis.
usefulness of serum glycoconjugates in precancerous and cancerous diseases of the oral cavity. sera from 47 healthy controls, 18 normal individuals with the habit of tobacco chewing, 43 patients with oral precancerous (pc) conditions, and 40 patients with oral cancer (oc) were studied for the levels of total sialic acid (tsa), lipid-bound sialic acid (lsa), mucoid proteins, and protein-bound hexoses (pbh) (galactose and mannose). the changes in the glycoconjugate levels were insignificant between the controls and the normal tobacco chewers. all four parameters were significantly elevated in oral pc patients compared with controls. the levels of pbh and lsa showed significant increase in the oral pc patients compared with the normal tobacco chewers. a significant increase was observed in the levels of tsa, lsa, mucoid proteins, and pbh in oc patients compared with controls, normal tobacco chewers, and patients with oral pc. increasing levels of all the biomarkers were found with progression of the malignant disease. elevations in the levels of tsa and lsa were statistically significant in stage iv patients compared with stage iii patients. the patients with metastases had higher levels of the biomarkers than the patients with primary oc. however, elevations only in lsa levels were statistically significant. these results suggest that evaluations of the serum glycoconjugate levels may be useful in diagnosis of the patients with oral pc or oc. in addition to their value in early detection, they can also help in staging of the disease.
endocrine function and morphological findings in patients with disorders of the hypothalamo-pituitary area: a study with magnetic resonance. evaluation of the sellar area was performed with magnetic resonance imaging in 101 patients (age range 0.8-27 years) with hypopituitarism, isolated diabetes insipidus, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and central precocious puberty. the hypopituitary patients (n = 70) included multiple pituitary deficiency (n = 23), pituitary deficiency with diabetes insipidus (n = 5), and isolated growth hormone deficiency (n = 42). the patients with multiple pituitary deficiency showed pathological morphological findings in all cases, with stalk and posterior lobe always involved. the group with associated diabetes insipidus had abnormal stalk in four of five cases and posterior lobe not visible in all cases. only five of 42 (12%) patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency had abnormalities of the sellar area. in two out of four patients with isolated diabetes insipidus posterior lobe was not seen. all patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (three with kallmann's syndrome, one prader-willi syndrome, and two idiopathic hypogonadism) appeared normal. in precocious puberty (n = 21) the three patients with onset of symptoms before age 2 years exhibited a hypothalamic hamartoma, whereas in the others with onset of puberty between age 2 and 7 the magnetic resonance image was normal in 17 of 18 patients. the probability of finding a pathological magnetic resonance image was considerably high in our patients with multiple pituitary deficiency, isolated diabetes insipidus, and precocious puberty with very early onset of symptoms. on the contrary, purely functional abnormality is suggested in most patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and precocious puberty with later onset of symptoms.
antibodies to nuclear lamin c in chronic hepatitis delta virus infection. sera of patients with chronic hepatitis delta virus infection stained the nuclear periphery in indirect immunofluorescence. using proteins of isolated nuclei, isolated nuclear matrices, the nuclear pore complex-lamina fraction and purified lamins a and c as antigen source in immunoblotting experiments, nuclear lamin c was identified as the reactive antigen. most sera tested (8 of 10) recognized nuclear lamin c exclusively, but not the nuclear lamins a and b. antibodies reacting with both nuclear lamins a and c, which share extensive sequence homologies, have been reported to occur in autoimmune hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis. the present findings suggest that the novel autoantibody associated with chronic hepatitis delta virus infection recognizes an epitope localized in the short carboxyterminal region of nuclear lamin c.
hyperkalaemia during rapid blood transfusion and hypovolaemic cardiac arrest in children. a morbidity and mortality review documented a high occurrence of hyperkalaemia in cardiac arrests associated with rapid blood transfusion, which resulted in further study. in order to stimulate events during rapid blood transfusion and cardiac arrest, the central circulation was modeled as a linear one compartment, and used to stimulate a child who suffered a hypovolaemic cardiac arrest and was resuscitated with rapid blood transfusion (rbt). the simulation suggested that the combination of rbt and a low cardiac output state could be associated with hyperkalaemia, if the potassium concentration in the plasma fraction of the transfused blood was greater than or equal to 10 mmol.l-1. in an associated clinical study the plasma potassium concentration during cardiac arrest was documented from a retrospective review of 138 cardiac arrests in a paediatric population. patients were divided into two groups. the rbt-group received a rapid blood transfusion during resuscitation. the non-rbt group did not receive blood during resuscitation. during cardiac arrest the plasma [k] in the non-rbt group was 5.63 +/- 2.39 mmol.l-1 compared with 8.23 +/- 1.99 mmol.l-1 in the rbt-group (p less than 0.05). the hyperkalaemia during cardiac arrest in the rbt-group could be explained as a consequence of rbt to a hypovolaemic child with a low cardiac output.
early detection of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with chest pain and nondiagnostic ecgs: serial ck-mb sampling in the emergency department [published erratum appears in ann emerg med 1991 apr;20(4):420] study objectives: patients presenting to the emergency department with chest discomfort are a difficult problem for emergency physicians. nearly 50% of patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami) will initially have nondiagnostic ecgs on ed presentation. the purpose of this study was to determine if patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs could be identified using new immunochemical assays for serial ck-mb sampling in the ed. design: chest pain patients, more than 30 years old, with pain not caused by trauma or explained by radiographic findings, were eligible for the study. serial serum samples were drawn on ed presentation (zero hours) and three hours after presentation, then analyzed for ck-mb using four immunochemical methods and electrophoresis. standard world health organization criteria were used to establish the diagnosis of ami, including new q-wave formation or elevation of standard in-hospital serum cardiac enzyme markers. setting: a tertiary cardiac care community hospital. measurements and main results: the serum from 183 patients hospitalized for possible ischemic chest pain was collected and analyzed. thirty-one of 183 patients (17%) were found to have ami by standard in-hospital criteria. sixteen of the 31 patients (52%) with ami had nondiagnostic ecgs on presentation. immunochemical determination of serial ck-mb levels provided a sensitive and specific method for detecting ami in patients within three hours after ed presentation compared with standard electrophoresis. the four immunochemical methods demonstrated a range in sensitivity from 50% to 62.1% on ed presentation versus 92% to 96.7% three hours later. the immunochemical tests demonstrated specificities ranging from 83.0% to 96.4% at three hours, with three of the four tests having specificities of 92% or greater. electrophoresis had a sensitivity of 34.5% on ed presentation, increasing to 76.9% at three hours, with a specificity of 98.6%. conclusions: immunochemical ck-mb methods allowed rapid, sensitive detection of ami in the ed. early detection of ami offers many potential advantages to the emergency physician. early detection of ami, while the patient is in the ed, could direct disposition of this potentially unstable patient to an intensive care setting. such information may prevent the ed discharge of patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs. the diagnosis of ami within a six-hour period after symptom onset may allow thrombolytic therapy to be given to patients with ami not having diagnostic ecgs. this study served as a pilot trial for a multicenter study of the emergency medicine cardiac research group, which is currently ongoing.
expression of platelet-derived growth factors, transforming growth factors, and the ros gene in a variety of primary human brain tumors. ribonucleic acid was isolated from a wide spectrum of central nervous system tumors to examine the expression of platelet-derived growth factors (pdgf) a and b, tumor growth factors (tgf-beta) 1 and 2, and ros messenger ribonucleic acid. eight glioblastoma cell lines were examined as well as cell cultures from 22 tumor explants. the explants included 6 glioblastomas, 4 anaplastic astrocytomas, 5 astrocytomas, 3 ependymal tumors, 2 meningiomas, 1 medulloblastoma. and 1 ganglioglioma. for comparison, 2 nontumor glial cell cultures were included. the pdgf b-chain was expressed in 5 of 8 glioblastoma cell lines, 2 of 6 glioblastomas, and in 3 of 4 anaplastic astrocytoma explants. there was no pdgf b expression in 4 astrocytomas, 3 ependymomas of varying malignancy, in the remainder of the tumors, or in the nontumor glial cells. the pdgf a-chain was expressed in all of the tumors, with the exception of the malignant ependymoma and in both nontumor glial cell cultures. tgf-beta 1 was expressed in all of the tumors and in nontumor glial cells. the expression of tgf-beta 2 was expressed in many of the benign and malignant tumors and also in both nontumor glial cell cultures. the ros messenger ribonucleic acid was expressed in 1 of 5 glioblastoma cell lines and in 2 of 6 glioblastoma cell explants, but in none of the other tumors or in the nontumor glial cells.
splenic septic emboli in endocarditis. the significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement. to determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli, we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the university of illinois hospital from 1980 through 1988. intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68% (n = 73). the incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19% (n = 20), but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38% (n = 11) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms. streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85% (n = 17). localized findings were absent in 90% of splenic infarcts and abscesses. abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100%. no patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass. splenectomy was performed in 50% (n = 10) of patients 3-24 days (mean, 11.2 days) after valve replacement. indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60% (n = 6), large (greater than 2 cm) and peripheral lesions in 30% (n = 3), and splenic rupture in 10% (n = 1). perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30% (n = 3). the following conclusions can be drawn: 1) splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis. 2) abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients.
body fluid spaces and blood pressure in hemodialysis patients during amelioration of anemia with erythropoietin. blood pressure (bp) may increase in hemodialysis patients during treatment of anemia with recombinant human erythropoietin (r-huepo). since fluid volume is a determinant of bp in dialysis patients, changes in body fluid spaces during r-huepo therapy could affect bp. thus, 51cr-labeled red blood cell (rbc) volume, inulin extracellular fluid (ecf) volume, and urea total body water (tbw), as well as cardiac output, plasma renin activity (pra), and plasma aldosterone concentration were determined postdialysis before and after r-huepo therapy in patients in whom changes in bp could be managed by ultrafiltration alone. eleven patients entered the study: one had a renal transplant and two required addition of antihypertensive drug therapy and were excluded; eight, of whom two required antihypertensive drug therapy following the study, were included in the analyses. results revealed an increase in predialysis hemoglobin from 67 to 113 g/l (6.7 to 11.3 g/dl) (p = 0.001) during 18 +/- 6 weeks of therapy. predialysis diastolic bp increased from 80 to 85 mm hg (p = 0.07), while postdialysis diastolic bp was unchanged at 73 mm hg. 51cr-rbc volume increased, from 0.7 to 1.3 l (p = 0.004). ecf tended to decrease, from 13.7 to 10.8 l (p = 0.064), while tbw decreased to a similar extent, but not significantly, 34.3 to 31.2 l (p = 0.16). postdialysis ecf volume was positively correlated with mean arterial bp at baseline (r = 0.89, p = 0.007) and after therapy (r = 0.74, p = 0.035). however, the regression lines for this relationship were different (p = 0.022) before and after therapy.
ultrastructural evidence for differentiation in a human glioblastoma cell line treated with inhibitors of eicosanoid metabolism. human glioblastoma cells incubated in the presence of inhibitors of eicosanoid biosynthesis show decreased cellular proliferation without cytotoxicity. we studied the ultrastructural morphology of a human glioblastoma cell line cultured with nordihydroguaiaretic acid (ndga), a lipoxygenase inhibitor, or 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid, a cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase inhibitor. when glioblastoma cells were treated for 3 days with antiproliferative concentrations of either agent, they shared many morphological characteristics, including evidence for increased astrocytic differentiation with only limited signs of toxicity. the inhibited glioma cells demonstrated an increase in the number and length of astrocytic processes containing greater numbers of glial filaments, and the ndga-treated cells also demonstrated extensive lateral pseudopod formation along the processes. the glioblastoma cell shape also became more elongated, losing the usual nuclear lobularity and nuclear inclusions, especially in ndga-treated cells. many cytoplasmic organelles packed the cytosol of the inhibited glioma cells, including prominent golgi apparatus, dilated smooth endoplasmic reticulum evolving into dilated vesicles, cytoplasmic vacuoles, and numerous concentric laminations. there was limited evidence for toxicity, however, as the mitochondria were more pleomorphic with some mitochondrial distention and disruption of the cristae along with an increase in cytoplasmic vacuolization. we conclude that the inhibitors of eicosanoid biosynthesis, ndga and 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid, not only suppress glioblastoma cell proliferation, but also induce increased astrocytic differentiation.
changes in high-energy phosphate metabolism and cell morphology in four models of acute experimental pancreatitis. previous studies using the isolated ex vivo perfused canine pancreatitis preparation showed that during a 4-hour perfusion pancreatitis (edema, weight gain, hyperamylasemia) can be induced by four different stimuli. the stimuli include the intra-arterial infusion of oleic acid (ffa), a 2-hour period of ischemia before perfusion (isch), partial obstruction of the pancreatic duct with secretin stimulation (poss), and the intra-arterial infusion of cerulein at supramaximal doses (cer). in the present study, changes in high-energy phosphate metabolism, as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and changes in cellular structure, determined by light and electron microscopy, were documented for all four models of acute pancreatitis. the control preparations remained stable for the 4-hour perfusion period, with no decrease in adenosine triphosphate (atp) levels. in the ffa preparations, atp decreased to 36% of baseline levels during the 4-hour perfusion (p less than 0.001). in the isch preparations, atp decreased to undetectable levels during the 2-hour period of ischemia, but recovered rapidly and remained at baseline levels during the perfusion. atp levels remained stable in the remaining two models of pancreatitis (poss, cer). microscopy demonstrated that the initial injury was located chiefly in the capillaries (swollen endothelium, intravascular thrombi) in the ffa and isch preparations. in the poss and cer preparations, capillary changes were minimal and the injury was located chiefly in the acinar cells (swollen endoplasmic reticulum, zymogen granule depletion, vacuolization). the poss preparations also showed striking dilation of centroacinar lumens reflecting duct obstruction. in additional studies it was shown that the atp decline in the ffa preparations could be significantly reduced by pretreatment with free radical scavengers. the morphologic changes could be reduced by free radical scavengers in the ffa and isch preparations. any amelioration of morphologic injury in the poss preparations was obscured by dilatation of centroacinar lumens in both treated and untreated groups. the morphologic changes in the cer preparations were reduced by treatment with a cholecystokinin inhibitor.
the role of chemotherapy for node-negative breast cancer. approximately 25% of women with early stage breast cancer and negative axillary nodes will eventually die of metastatic disease. some studies have shown a recurrence rate of 40% or more at 10 years in this relatively good prognostic group. the incidence of breast cancer continues to increase approximately 1% per year with a great increase in the frequency of early stage disease (particularly in situ carcinoma). the increased use of mammography and physical examination with appropriate follow-up will increase the frequency of diagnosis of node-negative patients compared with those with more advanced stages. women with positive axillary nodes who are premenopausal benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy, whereas those who are postmenopausal have shown a clear reduction in mortality when treated with tamoxifen. it is even more reasonable to speculate that women with node-negative disease could have an even greater benefit from adjuvant therapy because they have a lower tumor burden at the time of diagnosis. compared with earlier clinical adjuvant trials, more recent studies (1981-89) have shown a disease-free survival advantage for node-negative breast cancer patients treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. hopefully, the differences noticed in disease-free survival will show a similar survival advantage with further observations. the results of these clinical trials suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy may be of benefit to patients with node-negative disease but do not support the contention that all node-negative patients with breast cancer should receive adjuvant chemotherapy. some prognostic subgroups (tumor size greater than 2 cm) have shown an overall 10-year survival rate of 92% for women who have not received adjuvant therapy. the benefits versus toxicities of adjuvant therapy should be carefully evaluated before the initiation of adjuvant therapy.
cauda equina anatomy. i: intrathecal nerve root organization. the three-dimensional organization of the human cauda equina has not been described previously. this is partly due to the difficulties of dissecting individual, unfixed nerve roots. by the use of a newly developed in situ fixation and embedding technique on 15 fresh human cadavers, the cross-sectional anatomy of the cauda equina was defined from l2-l3 to l5-s1. a highly consistent cross-sectional pattern was observed in all specimens. the lower sacral (s2-s5) and coccygeal roots were located in the dorsal aspect of the thecal sac, whereas the lumbar and first sacral roots exhibited an oblique, layered pattern as they ascended. the motor bundle was situated anteromedial to its respective sensory bundle within each layer, invaginations of arachnoid held the nerve roots in a fixed relationship to one another. this previously undescribed three-dimensional anatomy within the thecal sac may aid in the understanding and treatment of trauma, neurocompressive syndromes, and tumors of the cauda equina.
comparison of ventricular arrhythmia induction with use of an indwelling electrode catheter and a newly inserted catheter. two methods of serial electrophysiologic testing are in widespread use. most commonly, the electrode catheter is removed after each study and a new catheter reinserted through the femoral vein for every subsequent test. an alternative method employs an electrode catheter that remains in place during several days of serial testing. little is known about differences between these two methods with respect to the likelihood of induction of arrhythmia or the frequency of complications. to determine whether inducibility of sustained arrhythmia is altered or if the frequency of complications is unacceptably high with use of an indwelling catheter, a prospective randomized study was conducted in 78 patients. each patient underwent baseline testing, several days of electropharmacologic testing with an indwelling catheter, a 24 h drug elimination period and placement of a new electrode catheter. ventricular stimulation studies were then performed in each patient with both the indwelling and new electrode catheters. no differences were found between the indwelling and new catheter tests with respect to induction of arrhythmia, number of extrastimuli required to induce arrhythmia, rate of arrhythmia or requirement for cardioversion. ventricular pacing thresholds were higher and effective refractory periods were slightly longer when measured with the indwelling catheter. complications related to the 156 catheter insertions included two that may have been related to the indwelling catheter (one episode of staphylococcal sepsis and one presumed pulmonary embolism) and four that were related to invasive procedures (pneumothorax in all). there were no long-term adverse sequelae of these complications.
the natural history of left ventricular spontaneous contrast. spontaneous contrast in the left ventricle is an unusual entity. we retrospectively studied 16 patients who were found to have spontaneous contrast present on two-dimensional echocardiograms, specifically noting their clinical characteristics, the reproducibility of this phenomenon, the presence of thrombi and embolic events, and prognostic implications. diagnoses included ischemic heart disease in nine patients, dilated cardiomyopathy in six patients, and hypertensive cardiomyopathy in one patient. the mean ejection fraction was 17.6%. there were six thromboembolic events in four patients. the spontaneous contrast was reproducible for periods of time up to 39 months. patients who had improvement in their left ventricular dysfunction or who underwent aneurysmectomy had disappearance of the spontaneous contrast. those patients who had spontaneous contrast reproduced on subsequent echocardiograms did not seem to have a worse prognosis than patients with similarly depressed ventricular function, but a larger study is necessary to verify this.
catecholaminergic systems in the medulla oblongata in parkinsonian syndromes: a quantitative immunohistochemical study in parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and striatonigral degeneration. we investigated tyrosine-hydroxylase (th)-immunoreactive neurons in the medulla oblongata corresponding to the a1 and a2 cell groups in autopsy tissue of patients with parkinson's disease (pd) (n = 3), progressive supranuclear palsy (psp) (n = 3), striatonigral degeneration (snd) (n = 2), and in controls (n = 4). the estimated total number of th-positive neurons in the a1 and the a2 regions was normal in pd and psp patients. the sparing of medullary catecholaminergic cells in pd and psp may be related to their minor degree of melanization and the possibility that intermediate compounds associated with the oxidative catabolism of norepinephrine and epinephrine may be less cytotoxic than those generated by degradation of dopamine. patients with snd showed a marked loss of th-immunoreactive cells in the a1 and the a2 groups, which may contribute to the impairment of vasomotor control characteristic of the disease.
a clinically applicable method for long-term salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle. the clinical significance and applicability of interventions aimed at reducing reperfusion injury in postischemic skeletal muscle remain unproven, since long-term muscle salvage has not been demonstrated by most treatment protocols that attenuate early reperfusion injury. we have shown that reperfusion of ischemic skeletal muscle results in an early and prolonged sequestration of white blood cells and activation of the alternative complement cascade. the purpose of this study was to determine if 40 minutes of reperfusion with blood depleted of white blood cells and complement proteins, followed by 2 days of normal perfusion, would reduce muscle necrosis after 5 hours of ischemia. the isolated paired canine gracilis muscle model was used. the treatment muscle was initially reperfused with arterial blood that had been spun, washed, passed through a leukocyte removal filter, and resuspended in hydroxyethyl starch (greater than 99.9% removal of white blood cells and the complement proteins factor b and c4). the contralateral control muscle was subjected to unaltered reperfusion. blood flow (ml/min/100 gm) was measured by timed collection of gracilis venous blood. myeloperoxidase activity (absorbance at 655 nm/min/mg tissue protein) in muscle biopsies was used to monitor white blood cell sequestration. after 48 hours of reperfusion in vivo, necrosis was quantified by nitroblue tetrazolium staining. initial reperfusion with white blood cell and complement depleted blood significantly reduced muscle necrosis (53% +/- 3% vs 29% +/- 8%, p less than 0.0025, paired t test). early blood flow was improved, (p = 0.0025, repeated measure-anova), but subsequent white blood cell sequestration was not altered (p = 0.33, repeated measure-anova). this suggests that a significant amount of white blood cell mediated injury occurs during the first 40 minutes of reperfusion. preventing early complement activation and white blood cell mediated reperfusion injury is an intervention that is feasible during surgery and may result in clinically significant salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle.
non-hodgkins lymphoma of the head and neck: experience in the grampian area. the records of 44 cases of non-hodgkins lymphoma (nhl) presenting to the ear, nose and throat department in the grampian area from 1980-1988 were examined in relation to site of occurrence, histology, age at presentation, clinical stage, treatment and survival. the median age was 67 years and there was a preponderance of high grade histology, especially in disease affecting the tonsil. most deaths occurred in the first year; patients with high grade disease and those in stages three and four had a significantly poorer survival during the first year. the site of disease had no influence on survival.
role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in congestive heart failure. conventional therapy for congestive heart failure (chf) includes sodium-restricted diet, diuretics, digitalis, vasodilators, and short-term intravenous administration of beta-adrenergic agonists during episodes of decompensation. a specific class of vasodilators, the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, has recently gained predominance in the treatment of congestive heart failure. the primary mechanism of action is to reduce production of angiotensin ii by competitive inhibition of the enzyme that converts angiotensin i into angiotensin ii. reduced levels of angiotensin ii, in turn, promote vasodilation and lower aldosterone production. the benefits of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy in chronic congestive heart failure have been demonstrated by improvement in left ventricular performance, exercise capacity, functional status (using new york heart association classification), and survival.
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones: results and 6-month follow-up in 141 patients. a study of biliary shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones sponsored by dornier medical systems, munich, began in the united states in may 1988 to evaluate the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) and the need for adjunctive therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid (udca). one hundred forty-one symptomatic patients with one to three gallstones 5-30 mm in diameter were randomized to treatment. one week before eswl, patients were given either udca or placebo. this treatment was continued for 6 months. all patients underwent follow-up at predetermined intervals. according to the protocol, re-treatment for fragments larger than 5 mm in diameter could be performed only at 6 weeks; 26 (18%) of the 141 patients were retreated. at 6 months, the stone-free rates for single stones were as follows: patients with noncalcified stones receiving udca, 29%; patients with noncalcified stones receiving placebo, 24%; and patients with partially calcified stones receiving either udca or placebo, 6%. no significant difference was noted between the udca and placebo groups. at 6 months, the stone-free rates in patients with single, noncalcified stones 20 mm or less in diameter were 40% (udca) and 32% (placebo), which is superior to rates for those with solitary, noncalcified gallstones 21-30 mm in diameter and those with two or three stones.
the perception of life events and daily stress in nonulcer dyspepsia. previous studies on the association of nonulcer dyspepsia with major life events were performed without emphasis on the perception of these events, and have yielded conflicting results. the present study examined the perception of life events and, in addition, the role of daily "hassles" (stressful events) in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia. thirty-three dyspeptic patients as defined by normal endoscopy and ultrasonogram and 33 controls of comparable sex, age, and social class were recruited for study. both groups were asked to select from 56 major life events those they had experienced and to give a rating on how they perceived them. they were further asked to select similarly from 117 items of daily stress and to rate the severity of each item. the results demonstrated that the number of positive and negative events and the positive score were similar in both dyspeptic patients and controls, but dyspeptic patients had a higher perceived magnitude of negative events and a higher score of total life change as given by the summation of magnitude of positive and negative events (both p less than 0.05). the "hassles" scores were not significantly different between dyspeptic patients and controls. analysis of individual life events revealed that dyspeptic patients had significantly (p less than 0.05) higher scores than controls in items of minor law violations, major change in closeness of family members, and major personal illness or injury. we conclude that patients with nonulcer dyspepsia have higher negative perception of major life events, which indicates that psychological factors may play a role in the pathogenesis of nonulcer dyspepsia.
nodular regenerative hyperplasia: a cause of ascites and hepatomegaly after chemotherapy for leukemia. tender hepatomegaly and ascites occurred in a young woman receiving cytosine arabinoside and daunorubicin for acute myelogenous leukemia. whereas veno-occlusive disease was suspected clinically, liver biopsy showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia with no evidence of hepatic vein abnormalities. it is postulated that nodular regenerative hyperplasia can be initiated by hepatotoxicity of chemotherapy agents used to treat leukemia and/or that these agents exacerbate clinical manifestations of this histological abnormality. nodular regenerative hyperplasia should be added to the list of liver problems occurring in patients with leukemia.
risks of intestinal anastomoses in crohn's disease. six hundred fifty-eight intestinal anastomoses in 429 operations for crohn's disease were studied prospectively during an 8-year period to detect variables connected with perioperative morbidity. postoperative complications occurred in 9.7% of the patients, 4% had to be reoperated on, and the overall mortality rate was 0.5%. in multivariate analysis by stepwise logistic regression, the only variable significantly (p = 0.03) associated with overall rate of complications was long-term corticosteroid therapy. serious complications were more common in cases of intra-abdominal abscesses (p = 0.01) and preoperative steroid medication (p = 0.03). the combination of both of these risk factors increased the rate of reoperations from 0.6% (no steroids, no abscess) to 16% (steroids and abscess). no significant association with postoperative complications could be found for age, sex, duration of disease, previous operations, nutritional status, emergency surgery, extent of disease, type, number, and localization of anastomoses, presence of proximal ileo-/colostomy, or histologically inflamed margins of resection.
emergency surgical treatment for nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract. endoscopic and biochemical data were collected prospectively from 1,530 patients admitted with nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract between september 1985 and june 1989. therapeutic endoscopy was done for 93 patients who underwent emergency surgical treatment for bleeding, subsequently required in 29 patients with seven postoperative fatalities. in contrast, 31 (15.7 per cent) of 198 patients (mortality rate of 9.6 per cent at 30 days) died in the hospital who had undergone emergency operation in whom therapeutic endoscopy had not been performed; data for this latter group is now presented. at admission, a greater likelihood of emergency operation was associated with a systolic blood pressure of 100 millimeters of mercury and endoscopic stigmatas of recent hemorrhage (esrh) (p less than 0.001). rebleeding rates for the presence of fresh blood, active spurting and oozing hemorrhage or visible vessel in an ulcer base were 26.5, 28.9 and 35.9 per cent, respectively. endoscopic stigmatas were thus associated with an increased risk of bleeding (p less than 0.0001) and rebleeding led to a sixfold increase in the mortality rate. congestive cardiac failure, chronic obstructive airway disease, chronic renal failure and a history of previous malignant disease were each associated with postoperative mortality rates of more than 50 per cent. an increased risk of mortality after emergency operation was related to age (p less than 0.0001), preoperative (p less than 0.002) and total (p less than 0.0001) blood transfusion requirement. immediate operation after resuscitation and endoscopy was required in 87 patients; 11 deaths (hospital mortality rate of 12.7 per cent and 9.2 per cent at 30 days) occurred in this group compared with 20 fatalities (18.0 per cent) documented in 111 patients (9.9 per cent at 30 days) who underwent surgical treatment for rebleeding. we conclude that age, concomitant medical illness and preoperative and total transfusion requirements are each related to outcome after emergency operations. such urgent intervention is best avoided if at all possible in patients with severe concomitant medical illness.
the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck. a 10-year prospective study. in a 10-year prospective study, 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty. within six months of their operations, 148 patients had died. in 322 hips followed up, 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year, only 14 (5.6%) showed acetabular erosion. a group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years (mean, 4 years 10 months) and of these, 95% had no pain or slight pain only. comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar, but that the erosion rate had been halved.
comparison of coronary angiography and early oral dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. we evaluated 50 consecutive patients who received thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction using thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography in combination with oral dipyridamole (300 mg) to assess the frequency of residual myocardial ischemia. thallium studies were performed early after myocardial infarction at a mean of 4.6 days (range 3 to 11) in 50 patients. the time from the onset of chest pain to the administration of thrombolytic therapy was 2.6 hours (range 0.5 to 5.5). q wave myocardial infarction was evident in 46 patients; four patients had a non-q wave infarction (anterior infarction in 31 patients and inferior infarction in 19 patients). the serum mean peak creatinine kinase was 1503 iu/l (range 127 to 6500). coronary angiography was performed in all patients at a mean of 3.1 days (range 2 to 10) and revealed the infarct-related vessel to be patent in 36 patients (72%). the ejection fraction was 48% (range 26% to 67%). after dipyridamole administration, 13 patients (26%) developed angina that was easily reversed with the administration of intravenous aminophylline. systolic blood pressure decreased from 122 to 115 mm hg (p less than 0.05) and the heart rate increased from 76 to 85 beats/min (p less than 0.05). none of the patients had significant hypotension, arrhythmias, or evidence of infarct extension. perfusion abnormalities were present on the initial thallium images in 48 patients. redistribution suggestive of ischemia was present in 36 patients (72%). ischemia confined to the vascular distribution of the infarct vessel was evident in 22 patients. seven patients had ischemia in the infarct zone as well as in a remote myocardial segment. thus 29 patients (58%) had ischemia in the distribution of the infarct vessel. ischemia in the infarct zone was evident in 19 of 36 patients (53%) with open infarct vessels and in 10 of 14 patients (71%) with occluded infarct vessels. in conclusion, thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography using oral dipyridamole was safely performed in patients with recent myocardial infarctions who receive thrombolytic therapy.
myotonic dystrophy: quantification of muscle weakness and myotonia and the effect of amitriptyline and exercise. the purpose of this study was to quantify the degree of muscle weakness and myotonia in 12 patients with myotonic dystrophy (md), and to quantitatively determine the effects of a four- to six-month therapeutic trial of amitriptyline. patients had exercised with weights for one or more years. some had shown initial improvement in muscle strength, but had reached a plateau; others had not improved when the study began. muscle weakness was quantified by comparing the five-second maximum voluntary contraction (mvc) in newtons (n) per kg (body weight) of 12 patients and 20 healthy subjects. knee extensor, elbow flexor, and first dorsal interosseous (fdi) muscles were compared. myotonia was quantified by measuring relaxation times (rts) at the end of the five-second mvc produced by fdi, as the time taken for the mvc to decrease by 50% and 75% (referred to as 1/2 and 3/4rt). the results were as follows: (1) the mean muscle strength of each of the three muscles of the patients was significantly (p less than .001) reduced compared with healthy subjects; and (2) 1/2 and 3/4rt means of the patients (vs healthy subjects) were significantly prolonged (p less than .01). eight of the patients participated in a therapeutic trial of amitriptyline. therapeutic effects were quantified by measuring muscle strength, 1/2 and 3/4rt, and percent change in evoked muscle action potential (map) from the fdi muscle after a ten-second mvc, to determine change in excitability. mean muscle strength of fdi improved from .27 to .33n/kg, (p less than .05).
microstaging of squamous cell carcinomas. the clinical classification of squamous cell carcinoma, which was established primarily by the international union against cancer (uicc), does not permit optimal estimation of expected metastasis. the authors' results indicate that metastasis can be more accurately estimated on the basis of invasion depth, histopathologic grading, and especially tumor thickness. one essential advantage of these criteria is that they can be established by a histopathologist. it is interesting to note that in the authors' collective no carcinoma less than 2 mm thick metastasized, that is, a relatively high percentage of carcinomas (48%) can be graded as no-risk carcinomas. the risk of metastasis for undifferentiated carcinomas greater than 6 mm thick that have infiltrated the musculature, the perichondrium, or the periosteum, however, is quite high. tumors between 2 and 6 mm thick with moderate differentiation and a depth of invasion that does not extend beyond the subcutis can be classified as low-risk carcinomas.
giant hemangioma of the liver with pain, fever, and abnormal liver tests. report of two cases. in conclusion, we report the cases of two patients with large hemangiomas of the liver, abdominal pain, increased esr and fibrinogen, increased serum alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase activity, and normal white blood cell counts. clinical and biochemical abnormalities disappeared after surgical resection. increased esr and fibrinogen are probably related to thrombosis within the tumor. this mode of presentation may suggest a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.
the treatment of gilles de la tourette syndrome by limbic leucotomy. a patient with gilles de la tourette syndrome and severe self-injurious compulsions who had failed to respond to drug treatment and behavioural therapy obtained a complete and sustained resolution of his destructive behaviour and improvement in his tics following bilateral limbic leucotomy.
area of lateral ventricles measured on cranial ultrasonography in preterm infants: association with outcome. the association between measurements of lateral ventricle area (determined by serial ultrasound scans) and outcome was studied in 70 preterm neonates of 33 weeks' gestation or less. the study group was subdivided into four groups according to cranial ultrasonographic findings at 2 weeks postnatal age: group a (n = 15) had isolated periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage; group b (n = 20) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and dilated ventricles; group c (n = 24) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia with or without dilated ventricles; and group d (n = 11) had isolated periventricular leukomalacia. eighty seven preterm infants with no evidence of intracranial disease and good neurodevelopmental outcomes at 2 years formed the control group. a poor outcome was observed in infants in group b, c, and d, particularly in those who had persistent dilated ventricles at 6 weeks postnatal age and extensive periventricular leukomalacia. there was no difference in outcome between group a and controls. during the first six weeks of life ventricular area growth velocities were significantly higher in groups b, c, d, compared with normal controls and group a. we suggest that persistent ventricular dilatation at this early stage carries a bad prognosis, which is the result of atrophy of the brain.
transtelephonic defibrillation. study objectives: this study was undertaken to assess the safety and reliability of a device for transtelephonic defibrillation. design: the transtelephonic system consists of a patient unit and a base station. the patient unit contains a monitor-defibrillator, electrode pads, microphone, microprocessor, and dc defibrillator. the base station comprises a control panel, computer, and ecg display. setting: fifteen patients who were treated in our emergency department for cardiac arrest were placed on patient units that activated our base station in a remote location within the ed. type of participants: thirteen patients were treated for ventricular fibrillation, and two patients were treated for ventricular tachycardia. interventions: thirty-one shocks were delivered transtelephonically. measurements and main results: in all cases, voice and ecg transmission were established without difficulty. conclusions: we conclude that this system represents a safe and reliable method for the treatment of ventricular fibrillation, and we advocate additional use to study the prehospital applications of transtelephonic defibrillation.
experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989: determinant factors of long-term patency. from 1981 to 1989, 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed. indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia (n = 335, 93%), popliteal aneurysm (n = 15, 4%), and claudication (n = 11, 3%). outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 (32%) and tibial artery in 245 (68%) of bypasses. at 6 years primary patency was 63% and secondary patency was 81%. during the performance of the in situ bypass procedure, 86 (24%) venous conduits were modified because of a technical failure (n = 49, 13%) or an inadequate vein segment (n = 37, 10%). secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses requiring modification was 72% compared to 84% for bypasses not modified (p less than 0.05). atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating endarterectomy, patch angioplasty, or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 years (69%) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction (46%, p less than 0.02). in the follow-up period, 95 (26%) bypasses were revised because of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure. bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year secondary patency of 68% compared to 88% for bypasses not revised (p less than 0.02). the first 179 cases (1981 to 1985) were compared to the subsequent 182 cases (1986 to 1989). the secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half (92%) compared to the first half (80%) of the experience was significantly improved (p less than 0.02). the secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was significantly improved (p less than 0.02) for the latter half (n = 142, 97%) compared to the first half (n = 124, 83%) of the series. long-term patency with the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience, quality of the venous conduit, and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that necessitates reconstruction. meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass surveillance results in superior long-term patency.
lack of increased bleeding after paracentesis and thoracentesis in patients with mild coagulation abnormalities. to determine whether untreated mild coagulopathy in patients with no evidence of clinical bleeding is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage after paracentesis or thoracentesis, retrospective examination was conducted of 608 consecutive procedures for which prothrombin time (pt), partial thromboplastin time (ptt), platelet (plt) counts, and preprocedure and postprocedure hemoglobin concentrations were available. there was no increased bleeding in patients with mild to moderate coagulopathy (defined as pt or ptt up to twice the midpoint normal range or pit count of 50 to 99 x 10(3) per microl [50-99 x 10(9)/l]). however, patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine levels (6.0 to 14.0 mg/dl [530-1240 mumol/l]) had a significantly greater average hemoglobin loss (-0.82 +/- 1.3 g/dl [-8 +/- 13 g/l], n = 11) than patients with normal serum creatinine levels (-0.12 +/- 0.88 g/dl [-1 +/- 9 g/l], n = 450) (p = 0.011). overall, the frequency of bleeding complications requiring red cell transfusions was very low: 0.2 percent of events. the most common diagnosis for patients who had paracentesis was alcoholic liver disease (72%); for those having thoracentesis, it was infection (37%). it can be concluded that, for these patients, prophylactic plasma or platelet transfusions are not necessary. patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine deserve close postprocedure observation.
benign missense variations in the cystic fibrosis gene. the common mutation causing cystic fibrosis is a deletion of phenylalanine 508 (delta f508), which occurs in a putative nucleotide-binding fold of the gene product. we report two additional mutations, substitution of cysteine for phenylalanine 508 (f508c) and substitution of valine for isoleucine 506 (i506v). three compound heterozygous persons, two delta f508/f508c and one delta f508/i506v, had normal clinical and epithelial physiological studies indicating that the f508c and i506v mutations are benign. this opportunity to study the in vivo function of these mutations suggests that amino acid substitutions are more benign than changes in the length of this portion of the putative nucleotide-binding fold. these mutations must be taken into account when performing molecular diagnosis and carrier detection for cystic fibrosis.
hyperfunctioning metastatic follicular thyroid carcinoma in pendred's syndrome. a 66-year-old woman with pendred's syndrome underwent a partial thyroidectomy when she was 17 years old. at the age of 52 years, she had a second thyroid operation because of hyperthyroidism due to a toxic multinodular goiter with a mediastinal extension consisting of several separate nodules. five years later a hyperfunctioning metastatic follicular carcinoma was diagnosed histologically. after treatment with radioactive iodine, the patient was well. to the authors' knowledge, this is the first description of a metastatic follicular thyroid carcinoma in pendred's syndrome and the first report of hyperthyroidism occurring after malignant degeneration of a dyshormonogenetic goiter.
reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion: poor correlation with blood gaba levels. previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy. we report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy. plasma gaba and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy. although the clinical syndrome and the eeg improved markedly after the ileostomy, the plasma gaba levels remained markedly elevated. preoperative and postoperative gaba levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml, respectively (nl = 100-180 pmol/ml). our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy. however, our results conflict with the hypothesis that gaba itself is the key mediator of the syndrome.
dna sequences 3' of the ig h chain cluster rearrange in mouse b cell lines. a mouse myeloma cell line mpc11 (igg2b, kappa) and variants derived from it have been used to study dna rearrangements that occur at the ig h chain locus. one variant, f5.5, has acquired both vh gene and c epsilon gene rearrangements. through genomic southern blot analysis initially directed to mapping the c epsilon gene rearrangement, we observed that the vh region rearrangement was linked, through an inversion event, to sequences that originate 3' of the ch cluster, i.e., 3' of the c alpha gene. subsequent studies have shown that dna rearrangements within the region 3' of the c alpha gene are detected in several other mouse myeloma and hybridoma cell lines and are not associated with the expression of specific isotypes.
mycosis fungoides-like lesions associated with phenytoin and carbamazepine therapy. we report the cases of four patients who were taking the anticonvulsant drugs phenytoin or carbamazepine and in whom skin lesions developed that showed histologic features suggestive of mycosis fungoides. two patients had a solitary lesion on the trunk, whereas the other two patients had multiple plaques. in all four patients systemic signs were absent.
myc rearrangement and translocations involving band 8q24 in diffuse large cell lymphomas. the configuration of the myc gene in diffuse large cell lymphomas (dlcl) with translocations involving band 8q24 [t(8q24)] has not been systematically studied. we collected cytogenetic and clinical data on 171 consecutive cases of dlcl, including cleaved, noncleaved, and immunoblastic types, of which 96 had dna available and 124 had abnormal karyotypes. the cases with dna available were evaluated for myc rearrangement (myc-r) by southern hybridization of ecori-digested tumor dna using an exon-1 probe, a combination of probe and enzyme known to detect over 85% of breaks in sporadic burkitt's lymphoma. in cases studied at diagnosis, myc-r, t(8;14)(q24;q32), or other t(8q24) were not prognostically significant. among the 124 cases with karyotypic abnormalities, seropositivity for human immunodeficiency virus was significantly more common in cases with a t(8q24) (72%) than in cases without it (9%) (p less than .05). of the four cases with an myc -r, two had a t(8;14), one had a t(7;8;14)(p15;q24;q32), and one had a t(8;?)(q24;?) and a del(8)(q24). in the three previous cases with translocations involving 8q24 and 14q32, comigration of the rearranged myc band with either the j region or the switch-mu region of the ig heavy chain gene could not be demonstrated, leaving the 14q32 breakpoint undefined at the molecular level. among the remaining 72 cases where both an abnormal karyotype and molecular data were available, 11 had a t(8q24), either t(8;14) or t(8;22)(q24;q11), in the absence of an myc-r. in these cases, the 8q24 break was presumably located outside of the ecori myc fragment. all 15 cases with a t(8q24) were also screened for point mutations in the pvuii site in the first exon of myc; two cases that were not myc-r showed loss of this restriction site. these results indicate that in most dlcl with t(8;14) or other t(8q24), the 8q24 breakpoint lies away from the myc gene; in a minority of these cases, point mutations in regulatory noncoding regions were detected.
prophylaxis of uric acid stones with alternate day doses of alkaline potassium salts. uric acid stone formation ordinarily is prevented by increases in the urinary ph after meals. this postprandial alkaline tide is lost in patients who make such calculi. single dose, alternate day administration of an alkaline potassium salt will increase urinary ph and simulate this normal physiological mechanism. an important part of the regimen is patient self-monitoring to verify that the urinary ph increases to greater than 6.8, 1 1/2 to 2 hours after the medication is taken. in contrast to multiple dose daily regimens, this mode of base administration is tolerated better and easier to follow. in 17 patients, 7 with the recurrent gravel/colic syndrome and 10 with prior stones, this regimen abolished calculus formation during an average followup of 2 1/2 years. however, further studies are needed before this regimen can be recommended as standard therapy for uric acid stone prophylaxis.
utility of upright tilt-table testing in the evaluation and management of syncope of unknown origin purpose: vasovagally mediated hypotension and bradycardia are believed to be common, but difficult to diagnose, causes of syncope. upright tilt-table testing has been proposed as a possible way to test for vasovagal episodes. this study investigated the clinical utility of this technique in the evaluation and management of patients with syncope of unknown origin. patients and methods: twenty-five patients with recurrent unexplained syncope and six control subjects were evaluated by use of an upright tilt-table test for 30 minutes, with or without an infusion of isoproterenol (1 to 3 micrograms/minute given intravenously), in an attempt to provoke bradycardia, hypotension, or both. of the 25 patients, there were 14 males and 11 females, with a mean age of 50 +/- 16 years. six control patients with no history of syncope were also studied. all tilt-positive patients received therapy with either beta-blockers, disopyramide, transdermal scopolamine, or hydroflurocortisone, the efficacy of which was evaluated by another tilt-table test. results: syncope occurred in six patients (24%) during the baseline tilt and in nine patients (36%) during isoproterenol infusion (total positives, 60%). none of the controls had syncope during the test. all patients who had positive test results eventually became tilt-table-negative by therapy, and over a mean follow-up period of 16 +/- 2 months no further episodes have occurred. conclusion: from this study we conclude that upright tilt-table testing combined with isoproterenol infusion is clinically useful in the diagnosis of vasovagal syncope and the evaluation of pharmacologic therapy.
oxidation reactions in parkinson's disease. free radicals generated from oxidation reactions may contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson's disease (pd). free radicals are capable of reacting almost instantaneously with membrane lipids and causing lipid peroxidation, membrane injury, and cell death. dopamine is metabolized by oxidation reactions capable of generating free radicals. recent evidence indicates that the substantia nigra of patients with pd contains increased iron, which enhances oxidation, and decreased glutathione, which protects against the formation of free radicals. further, the end products of lipid peroxidation are increased in the substantia nigra of patients with pd, supporting the notions that free radicals are being generated and may contribute to dopamine neuronal death. this hypothesis suggests that antioxidant therapies may slow the rate of progression of pd and raises concern that metabolites of levodopa therapy may accelerate the rate of neuronal degeneration.
cholecystectomy and right colon cancer in puerto rico. a case-control study was undertaken to evaluate the possible relationship between cholecystectomy and right colon cancer. two hundred patients with adenocarcinoma of the cecum or ascending colon (diagnosed between 1984 and 1989) were compared with 200 matched neighborhood controls. cholecystectomy history was obtained through interviews using structured questionnaires and subsequently validated from hospital records. a statistically significant association (odds ratio = 2.14) was found between right colon cancer and a history of prior cholecystectomy. the altered bile metabolism which occurs after removal of the gallbladder may have a carcinogenic effect on the right colon. dietary habits of the colon cancer patients in our study were consistent with prior reports in the literature, showing that this group has a lower intake of vegetables and cereal fiber than the control population.
a kallikrein-like enzyme in blood vessels of one-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats. active and inactive kallikrein or a kallikrein-like enzyme are found in the aorta, vena cava, and tail artery and veins of the rat. we studied the concentration of vascular kininogenase in rats with one-kidney, one clip renovascular hypertension and in unilaterally nephrectomized normotensive rats. six weeks after surgery, active and total vascular kininogenase activity (active plus trypsin-activated) was measured. blood pressure was 212 +/- 4 mm hg in the hypertensive rats (n = 33) and 120 +/- 1 mm hg in the normotensive rats (n = 32) (p less than 0.001). active kininogenase was lower in the hypertensive rats; although the difference was not significant in the thoracic aorta (56 +/- 8 versus 77 +/- 15), it was highly significant in the abdominal aorta (63 +/- 13 versus 167 +/- 17, p less than 0.001) and tail artery (48 +/- 8 versus 197 +/- 31, p less than 0.003). total vascular kininogenase activity (active plus trypsin-activated) was lower in the hypertensive rats in all arteries examined: thoracic aorta (183 +/- 16 versus 380 +/- 38, p less than 0.003), abdominal aorta (565 +/- 61 versus 1,093 +/- 74, p less than 0.001), and tail artery (532 +/- 112 versus 1,243 +/- 135, p less than 0.003). active kininogenase in the vena cava was higher in the hypertensive rats (213 +/- 56 versus 131 +/- 31); however, this difference was not statistically significant, whereas in the tail veins it was highly significant (1,803 +/- 221 versus 771 +/- 79, p less than 0.003).
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia. although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia, esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition. we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy, presumably related to barrett's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease.
childhood traumas: an outline and overview childhood psychic trauma appears to be a crucial etiological factor in the development of a number of serious disorders both in childhood and in adulthood. like childhood rheumatic fever, psychic trauma sets a number of different problems into motion, any of which may lead to a definable mental condition. the author suggests four characteristics related to childhood trauma that appear to last for long periods of life, no matter what diagnosis the patient eventually receives. these are visualized or otherwise repeatedly perceived memories of the traumatic event, repetitive behaviors, trauma-specific fears, and changed attitudes about people, life, and the future. she divides childhood trauma into two basic types and defines the findings that can be used to characterize each of these types. type i trauma includes full, detailed memories, "omens," and misperceptions. type ii trauma includes denial and numbing, self-hypnosis and dissociation, and rage. crossover conditions often occur after sudden, shocking deaths or accidents that leave children handicapped. in these instances, characteristics of both type i and type ii childhood traumas exist side by side. there may be considerable sadness. each finding of childhood trauma discussed by the author is illustrated with one or two case examples.
vascularized full-thickness parietal bone grafts in maxillofacial reconstruction: the role of the galea and superficial temporal vessels. reconstruction of bony structures of the face is always a problem as big as the defect and the function that must be replaced. everything from simple grafts to sophisticated distant bone flaps has been used. based on the studies of cutting et al., psillakis et al., and casanova et al., we have developed the full-thickness galeoparietal bone flap, initially for mandibular reconstruction, but of great use for all maxillofacial reconstructions. from july of 1987 to december of 1988, 14 patients have been operated on. the experience with this flap is shown in four patients as follows: primary reconstruction of a mandible as a result of ameloblastoma, secondary reconstruction of a mandible with associated old fractures and malalignment of segments, bilateral malar reconstruction in a patient with treacher collins syndrome, and severe sequelae of an already treated romberg case. small variations could be made to best accommodate the technique used to the defect we were treating. some technical details, the experience, the results, and possible sequelae or complications are also discussed.
intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy for recurrent locally advanced rectal or rectosigmoid carcinoma. a multimodality approach of moderate-dose to high-dose preoperative radiation therapy, surgical resection, and intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy (iort) has been used for patients with locally recurrent rectal or rectosigmoid carcinoma. the 5-year actuarial local control and disease-free survival for 30 patients undergoing this treatment program were 26% and 19%, respectively. the most important factor predicting a favorable outcome was complete resection with negative pathologic resection margins. the determinant local control and disease-free survival for 13 patients undergoing complete resection were 62% and 54%, respectively, whereas for 17 patients undergoing partial resection these figures were 18% and 6%, respectively. there did not appear to be a difference in local control or survival based on the original surgical resection (abdominoperineal resection versus low anterior resection). however, the likelihood of obtaining a complete resection after preoperative radiation therapy was higher in patients who had previously undergone a low anterior resection than patients undergoing prior abdominoperineal resection. for the 30 patients undergoing external beam irradiation, resection, and iort, the most significant toxicities were soft tissue or sacral injury and pelvic neuropathy. efforts to further improve local control are directed toward the concurrent use of chemotherapy (5-fluorouracil with and without leucovorin) as radiation dose modifiers during external beam irradiation and the use of additional postoperative radiation therapy.
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency. five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy. there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one, mesangial-proliferative changes in two, and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two. four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance. the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised. affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis.
left alien hand sign and mirror writing after left anterior cerebral artery infarction. a 43-year-old, right-handed man was admitted complaining of peculiar movements of his left hand. computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging showed an infarct area in the territory of the left anterior cerebral artery. the abnormal movements of the left hand were diagnosed as so-called alien hand sign. this patient also exhibited mirror writing with his left hand. the clinical manifestations and neuroradiological findings of this case are described in detail, and the possible mechanisms of these extremely rare combinations of alien hand sign and mirror writing are discussed.
massive hemorrhage from an arterioureteral fistula associated with chronic renal transplant failure. a case of arterioureteral fistula from the graft artery stump of a failed transplant and the native ureter is reported. this case illustrates one of the possible complications of graft anastomosis. the etiological factors involved in the formation of the aneurysm and eventually the fistula are discussed.
systematic computer-aided search of optimal staging system for colorectal cancer. two hundred and ninety-eight patients with curatively resected colorectal cancer were classified into 12 categories according to the depth of tumour penetration (t1-t4), and lymph node status (n0-n2). using a computer, these categories were grouped into 2-12 stages in every possible combination, so a total of 146,975 logical classifications were generated. the optimal model was selected for each group of classifications with equal stage number, thus giving the greatest prognostic information on 5-year survival according to the akaike criterion. the results showed that (1) 13% of the total classifications, including 85% of the 3-stage classifications, were better than the dukes system in predicting our patients' outcomes; (2) the t-level was a stage-determinant even more important than the n-level; and (3) major changes in prognosis occurred at more advanced stages than the classical "turning points". we conclude that in order to find an optimal staging of cancer, systematic computer-aided search through all the possible classifications is necessary, using the appropriate database.
intraoperative assessment of regional myocardial perfusion using quantitative myocardial contrast echocardiography: an experimental evaluation. to test the hypothesis that myocardial contrast echocardiography can be used to quantitate regional myocardial flow in the arrested heart at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution, data were acquired in 13 dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass. different degrees of stenosis were placed in random order on the left anterior descending coronary artery. for each stenosis, myocardial contrast echocardiography was performed by injecting sonicated albumin microbubbles into the cross-clamped aortic root at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution. the resultant echocardiographic images were analyzed on an off-line computer. background-subtracted time-intensity plots were generated, and an exponential function, f(t) = ce-alpha t + de- beta t, was applied to each plot. variables that reflected the total number of microbubbles entering the coronary artery bed, such as the area under the curve and the peak height of the curve, correlated best with radiolabeled microsphere-measured myocardial flow (r = 0.92 and r = 0.91, respectively). variables that reflected the appearance of contrast microbubbles in the myocardium, such as the initial slope and the slope at 1 s, also had a good correlation with myocardial flow (r = 0.84 and r = 0.89, respectively). variables that reflected the washout of contrast medium from the myocardium, such as the slope of the descending portion of the curve, had only a fair correlation with myocardial flow (r = 0.65). in six dogs, the technique of injecting contrast medium into the cross-clamped aortic root was also examined. although continuous infusion of contrast medium produced smaller perturbations in mean aortic and distal left anterior descending artery pressures compared with a bolus injection (p less than 0.01), the correlation between the variables of the time-intensity curves and flow was equally close with both techniques. it is concluded that it is possible to quantitate myocardial flow by using myocardial contrast echocardiography at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution in dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass. the implementation of this technique in humans might be useful in guiding the sequence of graft placement and thereby improving myocardial preservation during coronary artery bypass operations.
efficacy of interferons on bowenoid papulosis and other precancerous lesions. preliminary results of an open randomized trial of recombinant interferon gamma in patients suffering from bowenoid papulosis are described. recombinant interferon gamma was given subcutaneously to 12 patients at a daily dose of 4 x 10(6) i.u. by injection. four patients each were assigned to one of three treatment groups consisting of continuous therapy (group a) with three subcutaneous injections per week for 13 weeks; intermittent block therapy (group b) with four six-week cycles consisting of five injections on days 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 of each cycle; and intermittent single-dose therapy (group c) with six four-week cycles consisting of only one subcutaneous injection on day one of each cycle. at the twenty-sixth week after onset of therapy, complete responses were seen in three of four patients of treatment group a, whereas in the treatment groups b and c only one patient, respectively, responded partially. these results suggest that in contrast to condylomata acuminata bowenoid papulosis lesions respond better to continuous than to intermittent interferon gamma injections.
oral clofilium produces sustained lowering of defibrillation energy requirements in a canine model. the effect of long-term oral administration of antiarrhythmic drugs on defibrillation energy requirements is not well understood. we examined the effect of clofilium, a drug that prolongs cardiac action potential duration without slowing cardiac conduction, on defibrillation energy requirements and ventricular effective refractory periods in a canine model during a 3-week period. epicardial patch electrodes were implanted in 12 dogs, and baseline testing was conducted under fentanyl anesthesia on day 7. an oral clofilium (100 mg/day) regimen was started on day 8. six clofilium-treated and six control dogs underwent repeated testing on days 14, 21, and 28 after surgery. truncated trapezoidal shocks were given repeatedly at various stored energies in random order; delivered current and impedance were measured; and delivered energy was calculated. the energy and current for 50% success in defibrillation (e50 and i50, respectively) were determined. for control animals, e50 increased by a mean 34 +/- 78%, 60 +/- 83%, and 69 +/- 122% compared with baseline (day 7) on days 14, 21, and 28, respectively. in contrast, e50 in clofilium-treated dogs decreased by 39 +/- 62%, 24 +/- 33%, and 32 +/- 15% on days 14, 21, and 28, respectively. mean current requirements (i50) remained relatively stable compared with baseline in control animals (-7 +/- 39%, +25 +/- 36%, +40 +/- 75% on days 14, 21, and 28, respectively). after clofilium administration i50 decreased by 36 +/- 22%, 32 +/- 17%, and 33 +/- 17% on days 14, 21, and 28, respectively.
99tcm-hmpao spect studies in traumatic intracerebral haematoma. traumatic intracerebral haematomas are a common neurosurgical emergency. their management, particularly the role of surgical removal, is controversial. deterioration often occurs late, and is unpredictable. eight patients with traumatic intracerebral haematomas were admitted to the neurosurgical unit to monitor their clinical state. all were studied within 48 hours of admission with single photon emission computerised tomography (spect), using the recently introduced radionuclide 99technetiumm-hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (99tcm-hmpao). at the time of the spect study, all the patients had been clinically stable. three patients remained so; in the other five, the conscious level deteriorated, necessitating craniotomy and evacuation of the haematoma. in all the patients, the spect studies demonstrated perfusion defects that corresponded to the location of the haematoma, as demonstrated by computerised tomography (ct). however, in the five patients who subsequently deteriorated, the perfusion defects seen on the spect scan appeared larger than the haematoma, as seen on the ct scan. in addition, there was widespread poor retention of 99tcm-hmpao in the ipsilateral hemisphere. these differences were quantifiable. interestingly, these differences were present at a time when the patients were clinically stable, before their deterioration. it is concluded that spect studies with 99tcm-hmpao are of possible use as predictors of late deterioration in the management of traumatic intracerebral haematomas.
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna. a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia. he later developed hepatic, renal, and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction. at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment, tremor, ataxia, proximal muscle weakness, external ophthalmoplegia, and a pigmentary retinopathy (kearns-sayre syndrome). muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy. analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues, with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb. the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna. both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna; they have not previously been described in the same patient. these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues.
close correlation of intra-abdominal fat accumulation to hypertension in obese women. the relation between intra-abdominal visceral fat accumulation and blood pressure was investigated in 67 obese women (mean body mass index, 33.6 +/- 3.1; average age, 50 +/- 11 years). as an index of intra-abdominal fat accumulation, the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area was determined using a computed tomographic section at the level of the umbilicus. when the obese subjects were divided into a hypertensive group and a normotensive group, the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area in the hypertensive group was significantly higher (0.53 +/- 0.33 versus 0.29 +/- 0.12, p less than 0.01). significant correlations between the ratio of intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area and systolic blood pressure (r = 0.62, p less than 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (r = 0.53, p less than 0.001) also were found. however, no significant difference existed in either the body mass index or the waist-to-hip circumference ratio between the hypertensive and normotensive groups. plasma renin activity, aldosterone, epinephrine, and norepinephrine levels were not significantly different between the two groups. moreover, the correlation between the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area ratio and blood pressure was found independent of age and body mass index by multiple regression analyses. we conclude that intra-abdominal fat accumulation itself may play an important role in the pathogenesis of hypertension in obesity.
a composite driving system for lvas and iabp: practical and effective driving and weaning. we have devised a new method, termed alternate synchronous driving (asd), to wean patients from a left ventricular assist system (lvas) to a pressure assist intraaortic balloon pump (iabp). we have built a new drive unit, vct200, to apply asd easily and automatically. after iabp insertion in the final weaning stage, this method drives the lvas and iabp alternately, with electrocardiogram (ecg) synchronization. the pumping ratio of iabp increases while that of lvas decreases according to recovery of natural heart function. in in vitro studies, asd was effective when bypass flow (bf) was less than 50% of total flow (tf) (tf:bf + cardiac output [co]), and its advantages increased under lower bf conditions. mean aortic pressure (map) and co increased 10 mmhg and 15%, respectively, with this method (iabp:lvas = 1:1) when bf was 30% of tf. during in vivo studies, map increased 75.7 +/- 6.7 mmhg to 80.1 +/- 3.6 mmhg (p less than 0.001), and the co increased from 3.1 +/- 0.5 l/min to 3.3 +/- 0.5 l/min (p less than 0.001), while the endocardial viability ratio (dpti/tti) increased 20-30%. this method was used in a 62-year-old man in which lvas was applied after ventricular aneurysmectomy, bf was reduced from 2.2 l/min to 1.1 l/min by using asd without any change in systemic perfusion. this reduction of bf could not be achieved with lvas alone. from these data, this system could wean patients from lvas and then switch to iabp smoothly, easily, and automatically, without hemodynamic instability.
ductal carcinoma in situ with microinvasion. a curable entity using surgery alone without need for adjuvant therapy. of 408 negative axillary node (nan) patients surgically treated at roswell park cancer institute (buffalo, ny, 1976 through 1987), 36 (8.8%) presented with ductal carcinoma in situ with microinvasion (dcism). in more than 50% of the patients (20/36) the disease was detected solely by mammography (microcalcifications and/or radiological density less than 1.5 cm). thirty-three patients underwent modified radical mastectomy; three had wide excision +/- axillary dissection. residual disease after excisional biopsy was found in 22 of 33 mastectomy specimens (67%): 11 (33%) pure ductal carcinoma in situ, five (15%) dcism, and six (18%) frankly invasive. of the 22 incidents of residual disease, 50% (11) were multicentric (one third of all specimens). these findings imply a high likelihood of residual cancer after excisional biopsy in these patients. all patients were free of disease for a mean follow-up of 57 months (range, 16 to 137). these findings indicate that dcism is an entirely curable disease when treated by mastectomy alone, without the need for adjuvant therapy, regardless of the status of other prognostic factors such as tumor size, histologic differentiation, age, or steroid receptor status.
successful liver transplantation in a patient with a thrombosed portomesenteric system after multiple failed shunts. combined portal and mesenteric vein thrombosis preventing restoration of adequate portal venous flow has been considered a contraindication to liver transplantation. we report a patient with failed splenorenal (sr), portocaval (pc), and mesocaval (mc) shunts, who despite the absence of any obvious means for supplying portal venous inflow to a hepatic graft, successfully underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. a method of reconstruction of the portal vein with the use of vein grafts anastomosed to a large splanchnic venous collateral is described. this technique can be used in selected patients in whom orthotopic liver transplantation might otherwise be considered technically impossible.
mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty. two cases of massive mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty are reported. this severe complication occurred in two elderly women with recurrent mitral stenosis after previous surgical commissurotomy. due to their unstable hemodynamic and clinical condition, both patients underwent emergency valve replacement. at surgery, the commissures appeared fused and heavily calcified; the chordae tendineae thickened, shortened, and fused; and the leaflets presented a large tear with sheared edges. because the technical aspects of both procedures were unremarkable, the anatomic features of the mitral valve seemed to affect the occurrence of severe mitral regurgitation. percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty should be therefore applied carefully to patients with prior surgical valvotomy, in whom the structural alterations of the mitral apparatus may predispose to severe valvular damage.
late complications in pediatric cardiac transplant recipients. late complications occurring more than 3 months after cardiac transplantation were analyzed in 29 pediatric patients in whom 31 cardiac transplantations were performed. age at transplantation ranged from 3 months to 18 years (mean, 11.3 years) with follow-up ranging from 3.5 to 54 months (mean, 21.6 months). there were seven late deaths and two patients with retransplantations. of nine grafts lost, eight were due to acute rejection, and one was due to coronary disease. four of the grafts lost were secondary to patient noncompliance with prescribed immunosuppression. the mean rejection frequency more than 1 year after cardiac transplantation was significantly higher in those patients who eventually lost their grafts; however, these patients could not be distinguished by their rejection frequency in the first year. eight patients had coronary disease, with five diagnosed at autopsy, two at cardiac retransplantation, and one by angiography. all eight patients were on double immunosuppression; none of the 19 patients on triple therapy had coronary disease with similar follow-up. there were 12 serious infections in eight patients (four associated with okt3) with no deaths. five patients had arrhythmias requiring treatment including two pacemakers; four of the five were associated with rejection episodes. twelve of 29 patients developed early hypertension, and five developed late hypertension (greater than 1 year). there were two malignancies; one patient with hodgkin's lymphoma was cured with chemotherapy, and one patient with histiocytic lymphoma was discovered at autopsy. two patients had cholecystectomies, and five patients required laser gingivectomies.
effects of long-term verapamil therapy on serum lipids and other metabolic parameters. calcium antagonists have been used successfully in the management of hypertension for more than a decade, but less is known about their long-term metabolic effects. to define the impact of one calcium antagonist, verapamil, on serum lipids and other metabolic parameters, we placed 45 hypertensive patients on verapamil monotherapy and followed them for 4 to 8 years. after a mean treatment period of 5.3 years, total cholesterol and triglyceride levels were not significantly different from baseline, whereas the mean high-density lipoprotein cholesterol value increased significantly from 1.17 +/- 0.41 mmol/l at the initiation of treatment to 1.39 +/- 0.36 mmol/l at 5.3 years (p less than 0.05). other important biochemical parameters, including serum glucose, potassium and uric acid levels were unaffected by verapamil therapy. no serious side effects or adverse cardiovascular events occurred during verapamil therapy, and there were no study dropouts. it therefore seems likely that this agent will become increasingly useful in the long-term management of essential hypertension.
tropical neuromyelopathies and retroviruses: a review. debilitating disorders of the nervous system have a relatively high prevalence in the tropics, a geographic region that is often deficient in specialists in the fields of neurology and epidemiology. during world war ii, attention was called to a possible nutritional origin for most of these diseases. recently, however, human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i), formerly linked only to a rare form of leukemia (adult t cell leukemia), has been associated with a spastic paraplegia observed mostly in tropical areas and referred to as tropical spastic paraparesis. this entity is also observed in nontropical areas endemic for htlv-i, including japan, south america, and the southern united states. viruses of the htlv family are being associated increasingly with pathology in humans. the pathogenesis of htlv-i-associated tropical spastic paraparesis remains to be understood. however, future research is expected to favor a multidisciplinary approach, with exciting potential insights derived from the fields of neurology, immunology, and infectious diseases. the aim of this review is to summarize contemporary research related to the viral etiology of this clinical entity.
defining the role of subtotal colectomy in the treatment of carcinoma of the colon. seventy-two patients with colon cancer were treated by primary subtotal colectomy, including 23 patients with acute and subacute left colon obstruction. there were two operative deaths and no cases of disabling diarrhea. one death occurred in the group with colon obstruction. other indications for subtotal colectomy included multiple polyps associated with the primary tumor (32), synchronous carcinomas (15), a previous transverse colostomy for obstruction (8), associated severe sigmoid diverticular disease (2), age less than 50 years with a positive family history (3), adherence of the sigmoid loop to a cecal tumor (2), and metachronous carcinoma (2). there were multiple indications in several patients. subtotal colectomy has a defined role in a wide variety of clinical settings associated with colon cancer, including management of obstruction of the left and sigmoid colon, particularly if the proximal colon cannot be evaluated before operation by colonoscopy or barium enema. segmental or regional colonic resections are appropriate if the entire colon can be evaluated before operation and no associated neoplasms are revealed.
a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, two-center, pilot trial of cop 1 in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis. we found cop 1 to be effective and relatively safe in a previous (exacerbating-remitting) clinical trial. this current trial involves 106 chronic-progressive patients. the major end point, confirmed progression of 1.0 or 1.5 units (depending on baseline disability) on the kurtzke expanded disability status scale, was observed in nine (17.6%) treated and 14 (25.5%) control patients. the differences between the overall survival curves were not significant. progression rates at 12 and 24 months were higher for the placebo group (p = 0.088) with 2-year probabilities of progressing of 20.4% for cop 1 and 29.5% for placebo. we found a significant difference at 24 months between placebo and cop 1 at one but not the other center. two-year progression rates for two secondary end points, unconfirmed progression, and progression of 0.5 edss units, (p = 0.03) are significant.
recombinant human interleukin-1 induces meningitis and blood-brain barrier injury in the rat. characterization and comparison with tumor necrosis factor. the diversity of infectious agents capable of inducing meningitis and blood-brain barrier (bbb) injury suggests the potential for a common host mediator. the inflammatory polypeptides, il-1 and tnf, were tested in an experimental rat model as candidate mediators for induction of meningitis and bbb injury. intracisternal challenge of ril-1 beta into rats induced neutrophil emigration into cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and significantly increased bbb permeability to systemically administered 125i-bsa as early as 3 h later (p less than 0.05). this injury was reversible, dose dependent and significantly inhibited by prior induction of systemic neutropenia (via intraperitoneal cyclophosphamide) or preincubation of the ril-1 beta inoculum (50 u) with an igg monoclonal antibody to ril-1 beta. similar kinetics and reversibility of csf inflammation and bsa permeability were observed using equivalent dose inocula of ril-1 alpha. rtnf-alpha was less effective as an independent inducer of meningitis or bbb injury over an inoculum range of 10(1) u (0.0016 micrograms/kg)-10(6) u (160 micrograms/kg) when injected intracisternally, but inoculum combinations of low concentrations of rtnf alpha (10(3) u) and ril-1 beta (0.0005-5.0 u) were synergistic in inducing both meningitis and bbb permeability to systemic 125i-bsa. these data suggest that in situ generation of interleukin-1 within csf (with or without tnf) is capable of mediating both meningeal inflammation and bbb injury seen in various central nervous system infections.
epidural anaesthesia for labour and caesarean section in a parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries. we describe a case of a 29-year-old parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries who had lumbar epidural analgesia/anaesthesia with a local anaesthetic for labour, emergency caesarean section and postoperative pain. her outcome and that of her baby was successful. the anaesthetic techniques used in other parturients with similar congenital cardiac anomalies are reviewed.
endoscopic laser surgery. a single-center comprehensive experience. a retrospective review of endoscopic procedures using the nd:yag laser was carried out for patients treated between october 1985 and march 1989. during this 42-month period 165 procedures were performed on 100 patients. the study encompasses a unique period of time in this center, as it includes the initial application, and finally, the time when its use became routine. indications for laser surgery included the treatment of tumors, bleeding, benign strictures, arterial occlusions, and hemorrhoids. nd:yag laser was found to be effective in the treatment of these lesions. the overall success rate was 81 per cent. patients who are poor surgical candidates would especially benefit from this therapeutic alternative.
iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia: successful therapy with neuroma resection. we report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region. early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain, with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities. exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site, medial to the knee. resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition. it is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee. saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons. if the condition is intractable, it does respond to surgical therapy.
automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation without thoracotomy using an endocardial and submuscular patch system. the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator lead system is implanted by a thoracotomy procedure that may result in atelectasis, pleural effusion, cardiac tamponade and lengthy convalescence. a new defibrillator lead system that allows selection of different defibrillating current pathways is implanted without a thoracotomy. ten patients requiring a cardioverter-defibrillator for recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia (five patients) or aborted sudden cardiac death (five patients) were evaluated for implantation of this lead system. a lead configuration with a bidirectional defibrillating current pathway was implanted in nine patients. the defibrillation threshold with this lead configuration was 15 j in five patients, 20 j in three and 30 to 35 j in one patient. in the remaining patient the lead system had a 40 j defibrillation threshold and was not implanted. no perioperative complications occurred. induced ventricular fibrillation was successfully terminated at the predischarge and intermediate follow-up (8 to 12 weeks) electrophysiologic studies. during the follow-up period, there were three deaths (one sudden, two due to heart failure) and two lead system failures (oversensing with inappropriate shocks in one patient and patch lead fracture in another). implantation of the cardioverter-defibrillator lead system by a nonthoracotomy approach is feasible, has no significant perioperative complications and is well tolerated by patients. effective defibrillation was demonstrated immediately as well as at intermediate follow-up study. the occurrence of patch lead fracture and oversensing requires improvement in the present (nonthoracotomy) lead system technology.
a double-blind comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin when administered with beta-blockers or diuretics. the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin (once daily) and prazosin (twice daily) were compared in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure [dbp] 95 to 114 mm hg) not adequately controlled by diuretics and beta-blockers. doxazosin produced significantly greater mean reductions in standing (p = 0.01) and supine (p = 0.04) dbp than did prazosin; there were no significant between-group differences in either mean systolic blood pressure or heart rate. the overall mean daily doses for efficacy-evaluable patients were 4.7 mg of doxazosin and 6.7 mg of prazosin. sixteen patients (84.2%) treated with doxazosin and 13 patients (56.5%) treated with prazosin were considered therapeutic successes (decrease in standing dbp greater than or equal to 10 mm hg or to less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline). of the 19 efficacy-evaluable patients treated with doxazosin, 15 (78.9%) showed improvement in the severity category of hypertension; an improvement in severity was reported in 14 patients (60.9%) treated with prazosin. doxazosin produced a more favorable effect on serum lipid levels than did prazosin, although no statistically significant within- or between-group differences were observed. most side effects experienced with either doxazosin or prazosin were mild or moderate and were tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment. the overall evaluation of toleration was excellent or good for 18 (90%) doxazosin- and 21 (91%) prazosin-treated patients. clinical efficacy was rated as excellent or good for 16 patients (80%) treated with doxazosin and 15 patients (68%) treated with prazosin.
non-vesicular release of glutamate from glial cells by reversed electrogenic glutamate uptake. glutamate uptake into nerve and glial cells usually functions to keep the extracellular glutamate concentration low in the central nervous system. but one component of glutamate release from neurons is calcium-independent, suggesting a non-vesicular release that may be due to a reversal of glutamate uptake. the activity of the electrogenic glutamate uptake carrier can be monitored by measuring the membrane current it produces, and uptake is activated by intracellular potassium ions. here we report that raising the potassium concentration around glial cells evokes an outward current component produced by reversed glutamate uptake. this current is activated by intracellular glutamate and sodium, inhibited by extracellular glutamate and sodium, and increased by membrane depolarization. these results demonstrate a non-vesicular mechanism for the release of glutamate from glial cells and neurons. this mechanism may contribute to the neurotoxic rise in extracellular glutamate concentration during brain anoxia.
thyroid and parathyroid cancer. the epidemiology, etiology, pathology, and management of thyroid and parathyroid carcinoma are discussed. emphasis is placed on the clinical differences in the management and treatment of the various histologic subtypes of thyroid cancer. the biologic and prognostic differences among the various histologic types of thyroid cancer and their relationship to age are stressed.
vaginal removal of the pedunculated submucous myoma. historical observations and development of a new procedure. a new method of vaginal removal of submucous fibroids was attempted on 151 patients. the procedure involves dilation of the cervix with laminaria tents and removal of the submucous fibroid by grasping with appropriate instruments. myomas were removed successfully in 92% of the patients; hysterectomy and abdominal myomectomy were avoided in all but four of them. perforation occurred in two patients. morbidity was minimal. the four patients who desired pregnancy conceived.
the utility of circulating levels of human pancreatic polypeptide as a marker for islet cell tumors. the measurement of plasma levels of human pancreatic polypeptide (hpp) has been reported to be clinically useful in predicting the existence of pancreatic islet cell neoplasms in patients with familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (fmen-i) and the possible presence of metastatic disease in patients with islet cell tumors. however, these studies have not been prospective and involve small numbers of patients. in this study, fasting plasma samples from 36 patients with biopsy-proved islet cell tumors were analyzed for hpp by radioimmunoassay and compared with age-matched control subjects. of 13 patients with fmen-i who had islet cell tumors, 7 (54%) had elevated plasma hpp levels before surgery. after resection of all islet cell tumors, 4 of 12 patients evaluated after surgery still had elevated levels. fifteen patients had islet cell tumors that were localized (seven insulinomas and eight gastrinomas), but none of these patients had elevated hpp levels, either before or after surgery. nine patients, including one with fmen-i, with metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver were studied; three with more advanced disease had elevated hpp levels before surgery. each of the nine patients underwent resection of all gross disease and the three patients with elevated preoperative levels had normal postoperative hpp levels. our results indicate that basal plasma levels of hpp were not clinically useful. the hpp levels did not reliably predict the presence of islet cell tumors in patients with fmen-i, because 46% of patients with tumors did not have elevated plasma levels, and in those with elevated values hpp levels did not reliably predict the resection of all tumor. plasma levels of hpp have no utility in patients with localized sporadically occurring islet cell tumors and limited utility (33%) in predicting the presence of metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver.
unilateral diffuse pulmonary artery involvement in takayasu's arteritis associated with coronary-pulmonary artery fistula and bronchial-pulmonary artery fistula: a case report. diffuse involvement of the right pulmonary artery associated with fistulas between the pulmonary artery and systemic artery is reported in a woman with takayasu's arteritis. the most proximal portion of the abdominal aorta was pronouncedly narrowed and the aortic wall was markedly calcified. both the celiac artery and the superior mesenteric artery were totally occluded and drained by the meandering artery arising from the inferior mesenteric artery. the proximal right pulmonary artery was focally narrowed and the middle lobe artery was occluded. all other branches of the right pulmonary artery were diffusely narrowed with sparse distributions of their distal branches. fistulas were identified between the right coronary artery and the right pulmonary artery and between the right bronchial artery and the right pulmonary artery. this is the first english report of takayasu's arteritis presenting with a coronary-pulmonary artery fistula that is secondary to a diffuse unilateral involvement of the pulmonary artery.
a newly established human osteosarcoma cell line with osteoblastic properties. a human osteosarcoma cell line, huo9, was established from a tumor that was heterotransplanted into athymic nude mice. antiserum against nude mouse spleen cells was added to the early passage cultures to eliminate the host fibroblastic cells. the cell line retained a high activity of liver/bone/kidney-type alkaline phosphatase (alp) and secreted osteocalcin, i.e., bone gamma-carboxyglutamic acid-containing protein (bgp), into the medium. the addition of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 (1,25(oh)2d3) increased the alp activity as well as the level of bgp secreted into the medium. the alp of 1,25(oh)2d3-treated cells has the same inhibition characteristics to heat and amino acids as that of untreated cells. synthetic human parathyroid hormone stimulated the production of intracellular adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (camp) approximately 100-fold within five minutes. however, the stimulation was not observed with a synthetic human thyrocalcitonin. when huo9 cells were transplanted into the back of a nude mouse, a tumor with an abundant osteoid formation and mineralization was produced. the results indicate that the huo9 cell line expresses well-differentiated osteoblastic phenotypes. huo9 is the first established human cell line to produce bgp, and it provides a useful model for the studies of osteoblasts and the regulatory mechanisms of bgp production.
calciotropic hormones in human and experimental hypertension. although altered cellular calcium handling plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of hypertension, little attention has been focused on the impact of calcium regulating hormones on this process. recent research provides evidence that parathyroid hormone, calcitonin, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, as well as newly described factors such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp), exert target-organ-specific actions in cardiac and peripheral vascular tissues, are linked to the renin-aldosterone system, and thus to the control of sodium metabolism, and may directly participate in the hypertensive process, especially in low renin and salt sensitive forms of hypertensive disease. the metabolic set-point of these linked renin and calcium hormone systems, which serve to transduce environmental dietary mineral signals at the cellular level, determines the blood pressure consequences of sodium and calcium loading and/or restriction, and helps to explain the heterogeneous and seemingly inconsistent effects of these dietary maneuvers on blood pressure. measurement of renin and calcium factors in hypertension thus provides a physiological basis for individualized therapeutic recommendations in human hypertension.
sexually transmitted parasitic diseases. sexual activity is the primary method of transmission for several important parasitic diseases and has resulted in a significant prevalence of enteric parasitic infection among male homosexuals. the majority of parasitic sexually transmitted diseases involve protozoan pathogens; however, nematode and arthropod illnesses are also included in this group. trichomoniasis, caused by trichomonas vaginalis, is the most common parasitic std. infection with this organism typically results in the signs and symptoms of vaginitis. trichomoniasis can be diagnosed in the office setting by performing a microscopic evaluation of infected vaginal secretions and can be successfully treated with metronidazole. both pediculosis pubis, caused by the crab louse pthirus pubis, and scabies, caused by the itch mite sarcoptes scabiei, present with severe pruritus. a papular or vesicular rash and linear burrows seen in the finger webs and genital area are characteristic of scabies. pediculosis pubis is diagnosed by observing adult lice or their nits in areas that bear coarse hair. the diagnosis of scabies is confirmed by scraping suspicious burrows and viewing the mite or its byproducts under the microscope. lindane, 1% used in treating scabies, is also very effective for treating pediculosis pubis. synthetic pyrethrins, also applied as a cream or lotion, are less toxic alternatives for the treatment of either condition. oral-anal and oral-genital sexual practices predispose male homosexuals to infection with many enteric pathogens, including parasitic protozoans and helminths. the most common of these parasitic infections are amebiasis, caused by entamoeba histolytica, and giardiasis caused by giardia lamblia. both entities may cause acute or chronic diarrhea, as well as other abdominal symptoms. most gay men with amebiasis are asymptomatic, and invasive disease in this group is extremely rare. both amebiasis and giardiasis can be diagnosed on the basis of microscopic examination of stool specimens, although duodenal aspiration is occasionally necessary to confirm a diagnosis of giardiasis. multiple treatment regimens exist for amebiasis. iodoquinol is a good choice for asymptomatic cyst carriers, whereas the combination of metronidazole plus iodoquinol is used for symptomatic patients. quinacrine and metronidazole are both efficacious in the treatment of giardiasis.
orbital compartment syndrome. direct measurement of orbital tissue pressure: 1. technique. many disorders of the orbit produce an increase in intraorbital pressure, which may result in the development of an orbital compartment syndrome and visual loss. traditionally, orbital tension is assessed clinically by indirect means based on retrodisplacement of the globe. the authors describe their experience with the "slit-catheter" technique for direct tissue pressure measurement as applied to the orbit. the preliminary results indicate that normal orbital pressure ranges from 3.0 to 6.0 mm hg. in patients with graves' orbitopathy the values ranged from 7.0 to 15.0 mm hg. the results suggest that the technique may have many exciting possibilities as a clinical research tool in orbital disease, and its use will result in better understanding of orbital compartment syndromes.
meta-analysis of sulfasalazine in ankylosing spondylitis. at present there is no widely accepted therapy for ankylosing spondylitis (as), a progressive debilitating disease. the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in as still lacks strong evidence, as well, the magnitude of its benefit is unknown. a meta-analysis was carried out to assess the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in as. a search of the literature was done using medline, index medicus, the reference lists of articles located and contacting content experts to reveal unpublished studies. five randomized controlled trials (rct) comparing sulfasalazine to placebo were located and assessed methodologically. the methodologic quality of all 5 rct was considered satisfactory and consequently these studies were included in the meta-analysis. the pooled estimate of clinical benefit (and its 95% confidence interval) favoring sulfasalazine, over and above that observed in the placebo group was as follows: duration of morning stiffness -28.2% (-54.6 to -1.8%); severity of morning stiffness -30.6% (-52.5 to -8.7%); severity of pain -26.7% (-44.3 to -9.1%); general well being -7.1% (-24.3 to 10.0%); erythrocyte sedimentation rate -9.2% (-24.8 to 6.4%); and iga -11.7% (-18.8 to -4.7%). adverse effects, mostly mild, were more frequently observed in the sulfasalazine group (odds ratio [or] = 1.5746, p = 0.1082). the occurrence of dropouts (or = 1.1554, p = 0.6119) was similar in both groups. sulfasalazine is a safe and effective drug in the short term treatment of as.
clinical experience with the nimbus pump. the nimbus pump is an indwelling, electromagnetic powered left ventricular (lv) assist device inserted transfemorally. the inflow cannula (7 mm) is positioned across the aortic valve and the pump in the descending aorta. indications for insertion include cardiogenic shock despite maximal medical support and pcwp greater than 18 mmhg, map less than 90 mmhg, and cl less than 2 l/min/m2. twelve patients underwent the attempt at surgical insertion of the nimbus pump. diagnoses included eight acute myocardial infarctions (ami), two ischemic cardiomyopathy, one postpartum cardiomyopathy, and one transplanted heart rejection. eight (67%) of twelve patients had successful insertion. one patient had peripheral vascular disease preventing passage, and three had femoral vessels too small for insertion (less than 7.5 hagar dilator). five patients with the diagnosis of ami had successful insertion and three (60%) underwent sufficient lv recovery for removal of the device; the other two patients died of stroke and ventricular arrhythmias, respectively. three patients with the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy had progression of the disease process, and their needs exceeded the capabilities of the pump and they died of multiorgan failure. the nimbus pump is an attractive lv assist device because of its pumping capacity (3.5 l/min) and minor surgical procedure for insertion. however, its application is limited because of access route and size. the device appears to work well for patients in cardiogenic shock after ami (60% recovery) but does not appear indicated for patients with cadiomyopathy.
transesophageal echocardiography to detect atrial clots in candidates for percutaneous transseptal mitral balloon valvuloplasty. left atrial thrombi are common in patients with mitral stenosis. when percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty is performed on such patients, there is a potential risk of thrombus dislodgment and embolization. in this study conventional transthoracic echocardiography and transesophageal echocardiography were performed for percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty on 19 consecutive candidates (6 men, 13 women, 23 to 81 years old). in five patients (26%), transesophageal echocardiography revealed a left atrial thrombus; in only one of these was there a suspicion of left atrial thrombus on transthoracic echocardiography. balloon mitral valvuloplasty was canceled in four of the five patients. three underwent mitral valve surgery that confirmed the echocardiographic findings. transesophageal echocardiography is better than conventional transthoracic echocardiography in detecting left atrial clots in candidates for balloon mitral valvuloplasty. because of the potential risk of embolization, transesophageal echocardiography is recommended in all candidates for balloon mitral valvuloplasty.
application of the monoclonal antibody ki-67 on prostate biopsies to assess the fraction of human prostatic carcinoma. the feasibility of using the monoclonal antibody ki-67 as a proliferation marker in human prostatic carcinoma was studied on aspiration and core biopsy specimens obtained from 50 patients suspected of having prostate cancer. in 32 prostatic adenocarcinomas the ki-67 index varied from 0.3 to 13.3% (mean 4.3) in cytological smears and from 0.8 to 17.8% (mean 5.1) in frozen sections from histological core biopsies. no significant correlation between the percentage of cells positive for ki-67 and the histological tumor differentiation could be established. in 18 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia the ki-67 index varied from 0 to 3.0% (mean 1.2) and from 0 to 3.8% (mean 1.4) in cytological and histological material, respectively. the differences in the observed ki-67 index between benign and malignant prostatic tissues are of statistical (p less than 0.001) and of clinical significance. nine patients who underwent endocrine treatment or radiotherapy entered a followup protocol in which the ki-67 staining procedure was applied to periodically obtained cytological aspiration biopsies. during month 1 after the start of therapy a statistically significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in the ki-67 index to 58% of the initial values was found, while at 2 and 3 months the proliferative fraction showed a further decrease to 27 and 7%, respectively. as a marker, the monoclonal antibody ki-67 was shown to provide a reliable method to estimate the proliferative cell fraction of human prostate cancer.
a prospective study of acute central retinal artery obstruction. the incidence of secondary ocular neovascularization. we conducted a prospective study to determine the incidence of ocular neo-vascularization following acute central retinal artery obstruction. only patients initially evaluated within 7 days of visual loss were eligible. any patient with pre-existing ocular neovascularization or clinical evidence of the ocular ischemic syndrome noted at the initial evaluation was excluded. during the 18-month study, 33 consecutive patients were enrolled. six patients subsequently developed neovascularization of the iris, an incidence of 18.2%. in these six patients, neovascularization of the iris appeared as early as 12 days to as late as 15 weeks following the artery obstructions. five of the six patients (15.2% of the total) later developed neovascular glaucoma. another patient in this series developed neovascularization of the optic disc without neovascularization of the iris, an incidence of 3.0%. only two of the seven patients with ocular neovascularization had ipsilateral hemodynamically significant carotid artery disease as determined by noninvasive carotid artery testing. this study confirms results of previous retrospective studies that the incidence of ocular neovascularization after central retinal artery obstruction is higher than commonly thought. it also shows that, in the majority of cases, carotid artery disease is not responsible for the neovascularization seen after central retinal artery obstruction.
factors associated with binocular single vision in microtropia/monofixation syndrome. we reviewed the charts of 398 patients with microtropia/monofixation syndrome to determine what factors influence the level of binocularity attained. most patients (82%) exhibited some degree of stereoacuity. patients with a later age at presentation of the initial deviation were more likely to exhibit stereoacuity (p less than 0.001). patients with smaller initial deviations were also more likely to exhibit stereoacuity (p = 0.016), as were those with smaller manifest deviations on final testing (p less than 0.001). patients with amblyopia on final testing were less likely to demonstrate stereoacuity (p = 0.0001). generally, the more intervention required in the form of optical or surgical correction, the poorer the level of binocularity.
the role of the physician in the late diagnosis of primary malignant tumors of the small intestine. survival from primary malignancies of the small intestine has not improved during the last four decades. one reason for this is the advanced stage of disease at the time of surgery. in order to determine why diagnosis is made late, we reviewed the records of all patients with small bowel malignancy diagnosed between 1967 and 1988. the time from the onset of symptoms to the first medical contact and the time from medical contact until diagnosis were evaluated in 77 patients. the average delay in diagnosis attributable 1) to the patient failing to report symptoms was less than 2 months, 2) to the physician not ordering the appropriate diagnostic test was 8.2 months, and 3) to the radiologist failing to make the diagnosis was 12 months. thus, the major delay in diagnosis was after medical help was sought and not from the onset of symptoms to first medical consultation. physicians must increase their sensitivity to the subtle but persistent symptoms that necessitate a small bowel evaluation.
genetic mapping of new dna probes at xq27 defines a strategy for dna studies in the fragile x syndrome. the fragile x syndrome is the most common cause of familial mental retardation and is characterized by a fragile site at the end of the long arm of the x chromosome. the unusual genetics and cytogenetics of this x-linked condition make genetic counseling difficult. dna studies were of limited value in genetic counseling, because the nearest polymorphic dna loci had recombination fractions of 12% or more with the fragile x mutation, fraxa. five polymorphic loci have recently been described in this region of the x chromosome. the positions of these loci in relation to fraxa were defined in a genetic linkage study of 112 affected families. the five loci--dxs369, dxs297, dxs296, ids, and dxs304--had recombination fractions of 4% or less with fraxa. the closest locus, dxs296, was distal to fraxa and had a recombination fraction of 2%. the polymorphisms at these loci can be detected in dna enzymatically digested with a limited number of restriction endonucleases. a strategy for dna studies which is based on three restriction endonucleases and on five probes will detect one or more of these polymorphisms in 94% of women. this strategy greatly increases the utility of dna studies in providing genetic advice to families with the fragile x syndrome.
babinski-nageotte syndrome on magnetic resonance imaging. a 70-year-old woman developed left hypoglossal nerve palsy, a right hemiparesis sparing the face, and a typical left wallenberg's syndrome. these symptoms resulted from a lesion in the left half of the medulla oblongata, suggesting babinski-nageotte syndrome, a rare cerebrovascular disease. this is the first case of ischemic infarction in the territory of the left vertebral artery and posterior inferior cerebellar artery demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging. severe bilateral lesions of the distal vertebral arteries demonstrated on digital subtraction angiography may have contributed to the development of this syndrome.
risk for postoperative congestive heart failure. to identify predictors of postoperative congestive heart failure (chf), a high-risk population, mainly hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective general operations, was studied. of the 254 patients, 6 per cent had postoperative chf. among patients with preoperative cardiac disease (that is, previous myocardial infarction, valvular disease or chf), 17 per cent had postoperative chf; in contrast with less than 1 per cent of those without cardiac disease (p less than 0.001). patients with diabetes were also at high risk (12 versus 2 per cent, p less than 0.005), particularly those with cardiac disease. patients who had equal to or greater than 40 millimeters of mercury increases or decreases intraoperatively in mean arterial pressure in relation to preoperative baseline had increased postoperative failure rates (p less than 0.02). of note, postoperative failure rates were highest among patients with less than 500 milliliters per hour of net intake (input and output) (p less than 0.03). risk for postoperative chf was restricted to patients with preoperative symptomatic cardiac disease and was especially high if patients also had diabetes. intraoperative fluctuations in mean arterial pressure increased the probability of postoperative failure, while the intraoperative administration of higher net volumes of fluid was associated with decreased risk.
concurrent and construct validity of the pediatric evaluation of disability inventory. the purpose of this study was to determine the validity of the development edition (pilot version) of the pediatric evaluation of disability inventory (pedi) in groups of disabled and nondisabled children. the pedi is a new functional assessment instrument for the evaluation of disabled children aged 6 months to 7 years. the pedi has been developed to identify functional status and change along three dimensions: 1) functional skill level, 2) caregiver assistance, and 3) modifications or adaptive equipment used. the pedis were administered as a parental-report questionnaire, and the results were compared with data obtained by the battelle developmental inventory screening test (bdist). the bdist is a standardized assessment with developmental and adaptive content. subjects were 20 children between the ages of 2 and 8 years with arthritic conditions and spina bifida and 20 nondisabled children matched for age and sex. all subjects' scores on the bdist cognitive domain were no greater than 1.50 standard deviations below the mean for their age group. concurrent validity was supported by moderately high pearson product-moment correlations between bdist and pedi summary scores (r = .70-.80). construct validity was supported by significant differences between the disabled and nondisabled groups' pedi scores and by discriminant analysis identifying the pedi scores as better group discriminators than the bdist scores. results validate the developmental edition of the pedi and support the further development and standardization of the final version. use of the pedi in clinical pediatric physical therapy practice is discussed.
effects of prostaglandin e1 on collagen diseases with high levels of circulating immune complexes. prostaglandin e1 (pge1) was administered to 4 patients with collagen diseases presenting with high levels of circulating immune complexes (cic) in sera. our study patients had progressive systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, polyarteritis nodosa, and rheumatoid arthritis. in all 4 patients, cic levels significantly decreased after administration of pge1 by continuous infusion at 10/ng/kg/min via central venous catheter for 72 h. in addition, the skin ulcer in a patient with pss healed completely, and the finger necrosis in a patient with ra improved. these results suggest that pge1 given by continuous venous infusion is effective in reducing cic, in addition to improving peripheral vascular disorders.
drug-induced headache. headache induced by medications used for nonheadache conditions, and more importantly, headache perpetuated by symptomatic medications used for primary headache disorders are discussed in detail in this article. the clinical features and mechanisms of drug-induced headaches are reviewed. ergotamine and analgesic rebound phenomena are described. management strategies for drug-induced headaches are outlined.
medullary thyroid cancer. an immunohistochemical and humoral study using six separate antigens the authors investigated the humoral and tissue expression of six antigens associated with medullary thyroid cancer (mtc): calcitonin (ct), calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp), carcinoembryonic antigen (cea), neuron-specific enolase (nse), somatostatin (srif), and thyroglobulin (tg). the antigens were studied in the neoplastic c cells using immunohistochemistry with specific antisera and in the plasma using specific radioimmunoassay. eighteen patients (8 male and 10 female patients, aged 12-72 years) were studied. mean follow-up was 70.7 months (range, 2-179 months). nine patients (50%) died of their disease after a mean follow-up of 47.2 months (range, 2-116 months). by immunostaining, primary tumors expressed ct and cea in all cases and nse was positive in 90%, cgrp in 66%, srif in 63%, and tg in 58%. metastatic tissues were positive in all cases of ct staining, 92.8% of cea, 71.4% of nse, 73.3% of cgrp, 38.5% of srif, and only 13.3% of tg staining. in positive cases the percentage of positive cells and the degree of staining were variable among the different antigens. the expression of an antigen in the neoplastic cells was associated with the hypersecretion of the corresponding antigen in the circulation in the case of ct and cea. the levels of these antigens were elevated in all patients with metastases and could accurately predict the appearance of new metastases or indicate the effective treatment of previous metastases by surgery. in the case of nse, cgrp, and srif, few patients had increased plasma concentrations of the antigens and these usually occurred during very advanced phases of the disease. detectable levels of serum tg were never observed. when the outcome of the disease was compared with the expression of ct, cea, nse, cgrp, and tg, no correlation could be found. on the contrary, srif expression in the primary tumor could differentiate two groups of patients with different survival rates. srif-positive patients had survival rates of 100% and 50% at five and seven years, respectively, whereas srif-negative patients had survival rates of 40% at five years and 25% at seven years.
small intestinal fatty acid synthesis is increased in diabetic rats. several studies have demonstrated that intestinal triglyceride production and secretion are increased in diabetic animals and may contribute to the hypertriglyceridemia that accompanies diabetes. there are three potential sources of fatty acids for intestinally derived triglycerides; de novo fatty acid synthesis, circulating free fatty acids, or dietarily derived fatty acids. prior data have demonstrated that de novo cholesterol synthesis is increased in the small intestine of diabetic animals. the primary aim of the present study was to determine the effect of diabetes on small intestinal de novo fatty acid synthesis. we found that de novo fatty acid synthesis in the small intestine is increased approximately 2-fold in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. in contrast, hepatic fatty acid synthesis is decreased in the diabetic animals. the increase in intestinal fatty acid synthesis is observed in both the fed and fasting states. limiting food intake by pair feeding prevents the diabetic-induced increase in small intestinal fatty acid synthesis, a finding similar to previous data on cholesterol synthesis. thus, the increase in both small intestinal cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis is dependent on the increased food intake that accompanies poorly controlled diabetes. the present study indicates that increases in small intestinal de novo fatty acid synthesis in diabetic animals could play an important role in providing fatty acids for increased small intestinal triglyceride synthesis and secretion.
neonatal repair of tetralogy of fallot with and without pulmonary atresia. our experience with the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries has confirmed the attainability of excellent results with elective neonatal surgery. up to this time, we have repaired tetralogy of fallot during the neonatal period only when symptoms, either severe persistent cyanosis or cyanotic spells, have been present. this review assesses the results of such nonelective neonatal correction of tetralogy between 1973 and 1988. twenty-seven neonates with either symptomatic tetralogy of fallot or symptomatic tetralogy of fallot with valvar pulmonary atresia underwent repair. mean age at repair was 8 +/- 8.4 days and mean weight was 3.0 +/- 0.7 kg. unsatisfactory palliative shunts had previously been placed elsewhere in four patients. twenty-five transannular patches and two conduits were used for reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract. there were five deaths in the hospital, three of which were due to avoidable technical problems. all deaths occurred in patients with pulmonary artery (nakata) index less than 150 mm2/m2. one premature child weighing 2.3 kg displayed an absent pulmonary valve-like syndrome after repair and died late of respiratory complications caused by aneurysmal branch pulmonary arteries. actuarial survival at 5 years was 74%. there was a single rapidly declining hazard phase for death, with the hazard approaching zero at 1 1/2 years after repair. actuarial freedom from need for reoperation was 76% at 5 years. postoperative catheterization of 15 long-term survivors showed right ventricular pressure less than 70% systemic in 13 cases. all patients are symptomatically well and functioning in sinus rhythm 1 to 15 years after repair (mean, 5 +/- 4 years). this experience with neonates with symptoms suggests that, if mortality is lower in the absence of symptoms, elective repair of tetralogy of fallot could be reasonably undertaken during the first months of life.
femoral saphenous vein bypass in a newborn. this is believed to be the youngest patient to undergo a saphenous vein bypass for iatrogenic trauma of the right superficial femoral artery. the infant had emergency right heart catheterisation and rashkind septostomy for severe desaturation due to transposition of the great arteries. during the exposure of the saphenous vein, the superficial femoral artery was accidentally severed at it's origin. an attempt to restore the circulation by end-to-end anastomosis failed and resulted in persistent limb ischemia for over 4 hours. the baby was reoperated upon, the damaged part of the superficial femoral artery was resected and a saphenous vein graft interposed between the common and the distal superficial femoral artery.
significance of natural polymerized albumin and its receptor in hepatitis b infection of hepatocytes. lack of information regarding the presence of native albumin polymer in serum and its structural similarity to the one produced by glutaraldehyde treatment casts doubt on the postulate that hepatitis b virus attachment to hepatocytes is mediated through polymerized albumin. we used a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with murine monoclonal antibodies raised against glutaraldehyde-polymerized albumin to detect native albumin polymer in human serum and its cross-reactivity with other albumin polymers. presence of polymerized albumin receptor on the hepg2 cell was studied by radioreceptor assay. purified hepatitis b virus and synthetic peptide analogous to part of pre-s2 sequence (120-145) were used to study polymerized albumin-dependent attachment of the virus to hepg2 cells. antibodies raised against pre-s2 peptide were used to inhibit the pre-s2 and hepatitis b virus attachment to hepg2 cells. glutaraldehyde-treated polymerized albumin was found to be immunologically cross-reactive with native albumin polymer. its levels were found to be significantly raised in sera of patients with liver diseases. polymerized albumin has specific saturable receptor on hepg2 cells with two classes of binding sites of different equilibrium dissociation constant (kd1 = (16 +/- 9.6)pmol/l and kd2 = (1,019 +/- 172)pmol/l. albumin monomer was unable to compete for the polymerized albumin receptor sites on hepg2 cells. anti-pre-s2 antibodies inhibit hepatitis b virus and pre-s2 binding to hepatocyte by 40% and 70%, respectively. added extraneous polymerized albumin and the antibody against it did not interfere with virus attachment to hepg2 cells.
estrogen deficiency in adolescents and young adults: impact on bone mineral content and effects of estrogen replacement therapy. because the long-term effects of estrogen replacement in adolescents with ovarian failure and hypothalamic amenorrhea have not been previously studied, we conducted a 2-year study of 35 patients to determine factors contributing to baseline bone density measures (bone density, bone mineral content, and bone width) and the response to estrogen therapy. estrogen-deficient patients were often profoundly osteopenic by single-photon absorptiometry of the radius and dual-photon absorptiometry of the spine, despite estrogen replacement. variables that were significant predictors of better initial single-photon absorptiometry measurements included increased age, increased body mass index, spontaneous pubertal development, lack of radiation therapy, and lower serum osteocalcin. patients treated with estrogen/progestin had stable cortical bone mineral content and bone density at the distal one-third of the radius, a slight improvement in bone density at the distal one-tenth of the radius, and on encouraging, but marginal, improvement in the z score (standard deviation from the mean) of bone mineral content at the distal one-tenth. the z scores for cortical bone width and bone density decreased, suggesting a possible relative worsening over time. in untreated estrogen-deficient girls, bone mineral content and bone density decreased (but not significantly); the z score of cortical bone width showed a significant decrease. using dual-photon absorptiometry, a history of radiation therapy was found to be a predictor of lower bone density compared with age-matched controls. estrogen progestin therapy did not result in changes in serum levels of lipids and antithrombin iii, weight, or blood pressure.
growth velocity before sudden infant death. weight velocities of 136 infants who died from sudden infant death syndrome (sids) were compared with those of 136 controls matched for sex, birth weight, and type of feeding. it was found that the sids infants gained weight more slowly overall and that the differences were significantly different for infants who were not breast fed in the last two weeks in which it was possible to estimate their growth velocity. breast fed infants had more periods of growth below the 25th centile than expected. these differences are unlikely to be useful in the prediction of which babies are likely to die from sids as there are frequent episodes of poor growth in infants who do not die.
incidence of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis. study hypothesis: rhabdomyolysis is a common complication of cocaine use, and muscle symptoms fail to predict its development. study population: a prospective, convenience sample of patients presenting to the emergency department of a large inner-city hospital with complaints related to cocaine use were eligible for inclusion. patients were excluded if they had other potential causes of elevated creatine kinase (ck) levels or rhabdomyolysis. a control group comprised patients who were not cocaine users and satisfied the exclusion criteria. sixty-eight patients were studied. methods: initial evaluation included determination of the presence of muscle pain or swelling and total ck levels. patients with a ck level of more than 800 u/l had additional tests, including a urine myoglobin, urine drug screen, and serum phosphorus. rhabdomyolysis was defined by a serum ck level of more than 1,000 u/l (more than fivefold that of normal). ck levels were compared by two-tailed student's t test. muscle symptoms were compared with the development of rhabdomyolysis by fisher's exact test. results: the ck level in the cocaine group was 931 +/- 1,785 u/l (mean +/- 1 sd). the ck level in the control group was 242 +/- 168 u/l (p = .028). of the cocaine users, 24% (eight of 34) had rhabdomyolysis; one developed multiorgan failure and died. no patient in the control group had a ck level of more than 1,000 u/l. only one cocaine user who developed rhabdomyolysis had muscle symptoms. three cocaine users had muscle symptoms but did not develop rhabdomyolysis. no patient in the control group had muscle symptoms or developed rhabdomyolysis. muscle symptoms did not predict the ck level (p = .55). conclusion: this study revealed that 24% of the cocaine users had rhabdomyolysis. many of the cases of rhabdomyolysis were not predictable from history or physical examination, making laboratory evaluation essential.
hypertension in african-americans. a considerable disparity exists between african-americans and us caucasians in the incidence, severity, and management of hypertension. as a consequence, overall hypertension-related morbidity and mortality rates are at least threefold to fivefold higher in african-americans than in caucasians. alarmingly high frequencies of stroke, end-stage renal disease, congestive heart failure, and left ventricular hypertrophy occur in african-americans. to bring this crisis under control will require a renewed commitment to expanded research, improved public health measures, and more effective clinical intervention. current hypertension control programs must be expanded and adequately funded. in addition, primary prevention of hypertension should be strongly recommended for the us population, especially african-americans.
synchronous diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma and gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia. diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma (d-wdll) and chronic lymphocytic lymphoma (cll) represent closely related neoplasms which may have indolent courses. dating back more than one century, reports of associated second primary malignancies continue to intrigue clinicians. a case of synchronous d-wdll and gastric adenocarcinoma, presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia, is presented. the case and literature are reviewed.
rapid induction of hepatic fibrosis in the gerbil after the parenteral administration of iron-dextran complex. the parenteral administration of iron-dextran complex to gerbils caused hepatic hemosiderosis and fibrosis after 6 wk. type i and iii collagen synthesis in the liver developed from perisinusoidal stellate cells that are often referred to as myofibroblasts. immunohistologically these cells were shown to have large intracellular deposits of ferritin. the hepatic fibrosis appeared to be associated with aggregates of these cells rather than the aggregates of kupffer cells, which also occur in hemosiderosis in the liver. no appreciable necrosis of hepatocytes to trigger the fibrotic response was found, so that the fibrosis appeared to be related to the accumulation of ferritin in the perisinusoidal stellate cells. in contrast, rats and mice did not accumulate ferritin in their perisinusoidal cells or develop hepatic fibrosis in response to parenterally administered iron, although they accumulated similar or greater amounts of total iron in their livers. the rapid induction of hepatic fibrosis in gerbils in response to parenterally administered iron will provide a model to investigate the mechanism of induction of collagen deposition in response to iron overload and a means of quickly evaluating therapeutic treatments for iron overload-induced fibrosis in vivo using iron-chelating drugs.
hypoglycemia, hypotonia, and cardiomyopathy: the evolving clinical picture of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency. inherited defects in fatty acid oxidation, which have been described and diagnosed with increasing frequency in the last decade, are most commonly attributed to a deficiency in the activity of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase. few cases of the related enzyme defect of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase activity have been reported. an infant with documented long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency is described with a detailed metabolic profile, long-term clinical follow-up, and response to treatment. this patient is compared with the seven previously published cases of this disorder in order to stress the unique features of the initial presentation, more subtle late manifestations of the disease, and clinical and biochemical differentiation from the more common medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency. this report stresses the enlarging spectrum of the clinical presentation and natural history of this defect in fatty acid oxidation.
"moustache" appearance in craniopharyngiomas: unique magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic findings of perifocal edema. this report describes two cases of craniopharyngioma with perifocal edema. in both patients, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) revealed that the tumors occupied the suprasellar cistern, invaginated the floor of the 3rd ventricle and were tightly adherent to the ventricular walls. the intraventricular portions of the tumors were cystic, containing protein-rich fluid as suggested by mri and confirmed by operative findings. there was perifocal edema in the hypothalamus adjacent to the intraventricular tumor, the optic tracts, and the posterior limbs of the internal capsules, resembling the shape of a moustache on axial computed tomographic and mri scans. the perifocal edema subsided after treatment of the intraventricular tumor by surgical resection or radiation therapy. the "moustache" appearance seems a unique, characteristic feature of perifocal edema, which is observed infrequently with certain craniopharyngiomas.
traumatic rupture of the aorta--critical decisions for trauma surgeons. the diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with traumatic rupture of the aorta (tra) is performed by trauma surgeons. the resuscitations of 54 tra patients at a level i trauma center are reviewed. although the survival of patients who underwent attempted repair was good (75%), 21/27 (78%) deaths occurred during phases of treatment controlled by a trauma surgeon. the techniques and sequencing of resuscitation can affect outcome. pneumatic antishock garments were not beneficial in the prehospital setting for patients with tra. in fact, pasg were on and inflated in all patients who presented in cardiac arrest. awake, unanesthetized intubation caused fatal aortic rupture in three patients. pharmacologic control of blood pressure during intubation is necessary. the amount of fluid, blood transfusion, and changes in blood pressure secondary to therapy did not statistically affect outcome. the average time from arrival in the er to angiogram was 64.7 minutes. the average time er to operating room was 159.7 minutes. seven cases of tra had delayed diagnosis usually for a misinterpreted cxr (5/7). delay in diagnosis did not directly contribute to any deaths. associated abdominal injuries are a common cause of preventable deaths. fourteen patients with combined abdominal injuries and tra were identified. four of six deaths occurred with potentially reparable injuries. operative and diagnostic sequences must be adjusted to allow rapid control of all potentially fatal injuries.
the value of routine preoperative laboratory testing in predicting postoperative complications: a multivariate analysis. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of preoperative laboratory testing to predict postoperative complications. five hundred twenty patients undergoing elective surgery had their american society of anesthesiologists' classification, ponderal index, electrolyte values, glucose levels, blood urea nitrogen/creatinine values, complete blood counts, coagulation studies, total protein/albumin/lymphocyte count, electrocardiogram, chest radiograph, urinalysis, pulmonary function tests, type of anesthesia, and type of operation recorded preoperatively. patients were followed prospectively after surgery for the development of complications. the data were analyzed by univariate and multivariate methods. postoperative complications were strongly associated with american society of anesthesiologists' classification, type of anesthesia, and type of operation. however, only a few laboratory tests, such as electrocardiogram, chest radiograph, and nutritional status, were associated with postoperative complications. therefore, in general, preoperative laboratory testing should only be undertaken for specific indications. recommendations for routine tests are made depending on the age of the patient.
serologic determinants of survival in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. specific circulating serum proteins may reflect unique properties governing the growth and progression of head and neck cancers. one hundred three previously untreated patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were prospectively evaluated for serum iga, igg, and igm and c1q-binding macromolecules. immunoglobulins were assessed by the immunoturbidimetric technique. c1q-binding macromolecules (c1qbm) were measured utilizing the iodine-125 assay of zubler et al (j immunol 1976; 116: 232-5). neither the level of serum immunoglobulins nor c1qbm values were correlated with the primary site, ajc (american joint committee on cancer) stage of disease, or size of primary lesion. likewise, comparison of serum iga with c1qbm values demonstrated that these laboratory parameters were independent variables (r = 0.15 by pearson linear regression). univariate statistical analysis, utilizing the cox proportional hazard model, showed serum iga and c1qbm values to each contribute significantly to the ability to predict survival in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (p = 0.01 and 0.003, respectively). furthermore, multivariate analysis reveals that both c1qbm and serum iga levels contribute significantly to the hazards model beyond staging in predicting survival (p less than 0.001). predictive results were most apparent in patients with stage iv disease and related to the probability of both regional and distant metastatic recurrences. conversely, serologic analysis provided no information in patients who were staged early. these results support pretreatment multiparametric serologic analysis of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
penetrating injuries to the stomach. the charts of 298 consecutive patients with penetrating gastric injuries were reviewed. mechanisms of injury were gunshot wounds in 167, stab wounds in 107 and shotgun wounds in 24. twenty-eight patients died within 24 hours and 27 patients had serosal injuries. these patients were excluded from the study. the morbidity of gastric injury was defined in 243 patients. the probability of morbidity from the gastric wound was assessed by a multivariate analysis of 11 factors, including number of associated injuries, amount of contamination, age, mechanism of injury, shock, thoracostomy tube, injury to operation time, operative time, blood replacement and injury to the diaphragm or colon. extensive complications developed in 65 patients. eleven patients died. the gastric injury was directly associated with 15 extensive complications: ten instances of empyema after gastric and diaphragmatic injuries, two instances of gastric repair breakdown, gastric repair bleeding requiring exploration, a missed gastric injury and one instance of gastric outlet obstruction. one patient died of sepsis after breakdown of the gastric repair. complications were statistically associated with age, gunshot wounds and the use of 2 or more units of blood. other factors did not statistically increase complications. the 12.5 per cent empyema rate (ten of 81 patients) with gastric and diaphragmatic wounds was unexpected, but not statistically significant. morbidity from penetrating gastric injuries is secondary to technical and infectious complications. age, mechanism of injury and blood transfusion correlated with morbidity. the increased incidence of empyema suggests consideration of pleural lavage in combined gastric and diaphragmatic injuries.
hydatid cyst of the interatrial and interventricular septum of the heart. to our knowledge this report describes the first case of a large hydatid cyst involving the full thickness of both the interatrial and interventricular septum of the heart, which was detected at autopsy. the cyst was intact. clinically, there was complete heart block.
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic human endocrine tissues. pth-like peptide (plp) is produced by tumors commonly associated with hypercalcemia as well as nonneoplastic tissues and several endocrine glands and tumors. to characterize the distribution of plp in human endocrine tissues and tumors, we localized plp in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique with polyclonal antisera. among peptide hormone-producing tissues, plp was identified in nontumorous adenohypophysis and pituitary adenomas; medullary thyroid carcinomas; normal, hyperplastic, and adenomatous parathyroids; adrenal medulla and pheochromocytomas; normal pancreatic islets; and endocrine tumors of pancreas, gut, and lung, including small cell carcinomas. in other endocrine tissues plp was identified in nontumorous thyroid follicular epithelium, colloid nodules, and follicular neoplasms; normal adrenal cortex, adrenocortical adenomas, and carcinomas; nontumorous testicular leydig cells; normal ovarian granulosa and thecal cells; an ovarian thecoma and a granulosa cell tumor; placental trophoblast; and decidua. these results demonstrate that plp is localized in many normal and neoplastic endocrine cells, including those not known to influence extracellular calcium homeostasis. the presence of plp in a variety of endocrine tissues suggests that it may play a local physiological role in the growth or function of endocrine cells.
tumor-associated neurological dysfunction prevented by lazaroids in rats. the efficacy of u-74006f and u-78517f in the treatment of blood-tumor barrier permeability and tumor-associated neurological dysfunction was evaluated in a brain-tumor model in rats. u-74006f is a 21-aminosteroid and u-78517f is a 2-methylamino chroman. rats with stereotactically implanted walker 256 tumors were treated with methylprednisolone, u-74006f, u-78517f, or vehicle (0.05 n hcl) on days 6 through 10 following implantation. neurological function and vascular permeability were assessed on day 10. methylprednisolone and u-74006f were equally effective at preventing neurological dysfunction compared to the control group (p less than 0.01); u-78517f was slightly less effective than u-74006f and methylprednisolone but was significantly better than vehicle in preventing neurological dysfunction. delivery of methylprednisolone resulted in a significant decrease in tumor vascular permeability (p less than 0.006) while u-74006f and u-78517f had no effect on permeability. this suggests that u-74006f and u-78517f prevented tumor-associated neurological dysfunction by a mechanism other than decreasing permeability in tumor capillaries, and that u-74006f or u-78517f could prove useful in the treatment of brain tumors.
computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration of retroperitoneal lymph nodes in gynecologic oncology. computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration was performed on 30 retroperitoneal lymph nodes in 29 patients with gynecologic cancer. there were no serious complications. review of the cytologic material demonstrated malignant cells in 83% of the aspirates. because the predictive value of a positive aspirate approaches 100%, therapy for metastatic disease can be initiated in these patients with the need for an open biopsy. among five aspirates in which malignant cells were not seen, the cellularity of the specimen appeared to be the critical factor determining the predictive value of the aspirate. whereas neither of two patients with negative aspirates of adequate cellularity has developed recurrent disease, two of three patients with hypocellular negative aspirates have. because a hypocellular negative aspirate from a retroperitoneal lymph node may not be a true reflection of disease status, either repeat aspiration or open biopsy is advisable.
the role of beta-blockade therapy for ventricular tachycardia induced with isoproterenol: a prospective analysis. isoproterenol is sometimes required for ventricular tachycardia (vt) induction. however, the role of beta-blockade for treatment of such vt has not been critically assessed. the use of beta-blockade was evaluated prospectively in 14 consecutive patients who required isoproterenol 2.4 +/- 1.3 (+/- s.d.) micrograms/min to induce sustained monomorphic vt (greater than 30 seconds, or requiring termination due to hemodynamic collapse) after a negative baseline study. the vt mechanisms were enhanced automaticity (group a, six patients), triggered automaticity (group b, three patients), and reentry (group c, five patients). groups a and b had serial intravenous electropharmacologic tests with propranolol alone (0.2 mg/kg), verapamil alone (0.15 mg/kg), and propranolol plus verapamil, and group c had serial tests with propranolol alone, procainamide or quinidine (class ia drug) alone, and propranolol plus a class ia drug until vt could no longer be induced. all six patients in group a responded to propranolol alone. in group b, one patient responded to verapamil alone, and two patients responded to propranolol plus verapamil. in group c, three patients responded to propranolol alone, one patient responded to a class ia drug alone, and one patient responded to propranolol plus a class ia drug. during a follow-up of 7 to 37 (17.9 +/- 10.7) (+/- s.d.) months, vt has not recurred in any patient. three patients treated initially with propranolol alone have required substitution of amiodarone due to refractory congestive heart failure. in patients requiring isoproterenol for vt induction, beta-blockade alone appears to be effective in preventing reinduction of vt caused by enhanced automaticity. a heterogeneous response occurs when the vt mechanisms are triggered automaticity or reentry.
endogenous vasopressin supports blood pressure and prevents severe hypotension during epidural anesthesia in conscious dogs. to evaluate whether, and to what extent, release of endogenous vasopressin supports blood pressure when efferent sympathetic drive is blocked by epidural anesthesia, the authors studied the effects of high epidural anesthesia alone and when vasopressin was prevented from acting at its vascular (v1)-receptor in six awake, trained, unsedated dogs. on different days, the same dose of 0.5% bupivacaine (8-13 ml) was injected epidurally in a randomized fashion either in the presence or absence of (v1)-vasopressin receptor blockade, and the effects were evaluated on cardiovascular (arterial blood pressure, heart rate) and respiratory (blood gases, oxygen consumption) variables, and on plasma concentrations of vasopressin and renin. results were also contrasted to those obtained after epidural injection of saline alone (placebo) in the same dogs. when endogenous vasopressin was prevented from acting by intravenous pretreatment with a specific v1-receptor antagonist (beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopenta-methylene-propionyl-o-me-tyr-arg-vasopressin), epidural anesthesia resulted in a rapid and sustained 35% decrease in mean arterial blood pressure from 92 mmhg +/- 5 se to 60 mmhg +/- 4. in contrast, only a 14% decrease in mean blood pressure from 92 mmhg +/- 5 to 79 mm hg +/- 6 was noted after epidural anesthesia alone. this difference between groups was statistically significant (p = 0.0001). the v1-receptor blockade alone had no detectable effect. vasopressin plasma concentrations significantly increased from 3.4 +/- 0.3 pg.ml-1 to 16.2 +/- 3.2 pg.ml-1 after epidural anesthesia but did not change after epidural saline.
nerve growth factor prevents toxic neuropathy in mice. taxol is a promising new antitumor drug with therapeutic use that is limited by a toxic sensory neuropathy. taxol is also cytotoxic to dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro, but this effect is prevented by cotreatment with the trophic protein, nerve growth factor. we sought to develop an animal model and then to determine whether nerve growth factor can prevent taxol neuropathy in vivo. administration of taxol to mice resulted in a profound sensory neuropathy characterized by decreases in dorsal root ganglion content of the peptide neurotransmitter, substance p, elevated threshold to thermally induced pain, and diminished amplitude of the compound action potential in the caudal nerve. coadministration of nerve growth factor prevented all of these signs of neurotoxicity. these findings suggest that administration of nerve growth factor may prevent certain toxic sensory neuropathies.
gastric antral vascular ectasia ("watermelon stomach"): radiologic findings. radiologic findings in a patient with gastric antral vascular ectasia are described on computed tomographic scans, upper gastrointestinal series, and specimen radiographs. findings include prominent, scalloped antral folds radiating to the pylorus and thickening of the gastric antrum. pathognomonic red vascular folds, likened to stripes on a watermelon, can be seen endoscopically.
the relationship of antibody levels to the clinical spectrum of human neurocysticercosis. one hundred proven cases of cerebral cysticercosis were studied with an enzyme linked immunoassay (elisa) employing cyst fluid as antigen, with a view to detecting specific antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (csf). antibody levels were correlated with the clinical presentation of the patients, the type and number of cysts detected on their brain scans, the anatomical position of these cysts and the presence of lymphocytes in the csf. patients could be divided into two distinct categories, one with low levels of antibody in the serum and absent antibody in the csf, and the other with high levels in both the serum and the csf. this differentiation matched the clinical presentation of a benign and a malignant group. antibody levels could not be related to the type of cysts as observed on the brain scan, but depended on the anatomical position of the cyst, being lower if the cysts were confined to the cerebral cortex. a correlation of antibody levels with the number of cysts was only found in the benign group.
etiology and mechanisms of acute infectious diarrhea in infants in the united states. infectious diarrhea, caused by a wide variety of viral, bacterial and parasitic pathogens, is a common reason for morbidity and hospitalization for children in the united states. overall, rotavirus is the most common cause of acute diarrheal disease in infants. salmonella, shigella, and campylobacter are the most frequently isolated bacterial pathogens, and giardia and cryptosporidium are the parasites that most commonly produce acute infectious diarrhea. the mechanisms by which these enteropathogens cause diarrhea are highly variable, and include crypt cell proliferation, cellular invasion, elaboration of enterotoxins or cytotoxins, and enteroadhesion. in infants the incidence of diarrheal disease is higher and the severity of the illness is greater than in older children and adults. an increased rate of exposure to enteropathogens, as a result of fecal-oral contamination, may explain some of the increased incidence of diarrhea in infants. however, age-specific differences in host defense mechanisms may also account for the increased susceptibility to and severity of certain enteric infections in infants.
use of technetium-99m sestamibi to determine the size of the myocardial area perfused by a coronary artery. the value of the new radionuclide tracer, technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi, to demonstrate myocardial perfusion in areas supplied by specific coronary arteries was evaluated in patients injected with the agent during cardiac catheterization. tc-99m sestamibi differs from thallium-201 in its physical characteristics (photon energy 140 kev), half-life (6 hours) and lack of significant redistribution, allowing its administration during an episode of chest pain or ischemia occurring outside the nuclear medicine laboratory with later imaging to visualize the distribution. in 13 patients tc-99m sestamibi was administered intravenously during balloon-occlusion angioplasty. in 11 of 13 patients, defects of the single photon emission computed tomography images corresponded to the area made ischemic during angioplasty. in the remaining 2 patients, abundant collateral flow was present and no defects were seen. in a second study, 15 patients had tc-99m sestamibi selectively injected into a coronary artery during angiography. later imaging identified the area supplied by the artery injected. tc-99m sestamibi imaging can detect perfusion defects associated with short episodes of ischemia, and the area supplied by the different coronary arteries.
use of ct and mr imaging to distinguish intracranial lesions and to define the need for biopsy in aids patients to explore the potential usefulness of imaging studies in the diagnosis of focal central nervous system (cns) lesions associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids), the authors retrospectively examined the radiographic studies of 149 aids patients who presented with signs and symptoms of the three most common focal cns lesions. of these patients, 74 (50%) had toxoplasma abscesses, 45 (30%) had primary cns lymphoma, and 30 patients (20%) had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (pml). magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was more sensitive than computerized tomography (ct) in detecting lesions, especially in cases of pml. whereas ct was unable to distinguish mass lesions caused by toxoplasmosis from those caused by lymphoma, 71% of the solitary lesions seen on mr images were lymphomas. these results indicate that empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis, the most common initial treatment for aids patients with neurological symptoms stemming from mass lesions, is not likely to be successful for patients with solitary lesions on mr images. rather, early biopsy is advisable. if the presence of lymphoma is confirmed, the rapid initiation of treatment can allow prolonged high-quality survival.
intraabdominal hemorrhage as a result of segmental mediolytic arteritis of an omental artery: case report. this article describes the fifth reported case of segmental mediolytic arteritis and the second in a survivor. the patient had intraabdominal bleeding as a result of a ruptured omental artery. the pathologic and arteriographic findings are described. the pathology is characterized by segmental disruption of the medial smooth muscle cells and the initiation of mediolysis. mediolysis is associated with marked segmental thinning of the vessel wall, often with only the adventitia intact. fibrin is deposited at the adventitial and medial surfaces, and hemorrhage into the media may occur. as in this reported case, lysis of the adventitia leads to sudden, often catastrophic intraabdominal hemorrhage. little associated adventitial inflammation occurred. segmental mediolytic arteritis seems to involve the intra-abdominal muscular arteries in elderly patients with nonspecific abdominal symptoms. an angiogram showed patchy areas of narrowing involving ileal, gastroduodenal, and renal arteries that correlated with the pathologic findings observed in the excised omental arteries.
raf-1 protein kinase is required for growth of induced nih/3t3 cells. many growth factors regulate the cytoplasmic raf-1 protein kinase, consistent with its having a central role in transduction of growth signals. the kinase is ubiquitously expressed and can promote proliferation, presumably in a manner dependent on growth-factor receptors and membrane-associated oncogenes. we have now examined the dependence of serum- and tpa (12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate)-regulated nih/3t3 cell growth on raf-1 kinase to determine whether raf-1 is essential for receptor signalling. we inhibited raf-1 function by expressing c-raf-1 antisense rna or kinase-defective c-raf-1 mutants. antisense rna for c-raf-1 interferes with proliferation of normal nih/3t3 cells and reverts raf-transformed cells. in revertant cells, dna replication induced by serum or tpa was eliminated or reduced proportionately to the reduction in raf protein levels. expression of a kinase-defective raf-1 mutant (craf301) or a regulatory domain fragment (hcr) inhibited serum-induced nih/3t3-cell proliferation and raf transformation even more efficiently. inhibition by antisense rna or craf301 blocked proliferation and transformation by ki- and ha-ras oncogenes. we conclude that raf functions as an essential signal transducer downstream of serum growth factor receptors, protein kinase c and ras.
glucose polymers as an alternative to glucose in oral rehydration solutions. several issues involving glucose-based oral rehydration therapy may limit its acceptability and sustained use. our studies suggest that defined short-chain glucose polymers (2 to 9 glucose units) are hydrolyzed and absorbed faster than isocaloric solutions of d-glucose in the small intestine of the rat. glucose polymers, primarily from rice-based solutions, have been shown to be as effective as glucose-based solutions. they offer additional advantages in reducing the amount and duration of diarrhea with lesser volumes of solution, thereby reducing the costs of treatment. rice-based solutions provide high caloric density and increase the absorption of sodium without an osmotic overload. the result is increased net absorption of glucose, sodium, and water. glucose polymers from rice or other starches in oral rehydration solutions may be effective, inexpensive, easily used, and safe treatments for acute diarrhea.
value and limitations of proximal jet dimensions for the quantitation of valvular regurgitation: an in vitro study using doppler flow imaging. to evaluate usefulness and limitations of proximal jet dimensions for the quantitation of valvular regurgitation, fluid jets were created in a pulsatile flow model, and proximal jet width and cross-sectional area were measured by means of color doppler flow imaging. when circular orifices with diameters from 1 to 6 mm were studied, jet width and cross-sectional jet area measured as close as possible to the orifice were directly related to the orifice diameter (r = 0.97; standard error of the estimate, 0.4 mm; y = 0.5 + 0.97x) and the orifice area (r = 0.97; standard error of the estimate, 5.7 mm2; y = 0.22 + 2.47x), respectively. no significant dependence on flow rate or pressure gradient was found for these measurements. jet width was measured with color m-mode doppler by use of the smallest sample volume size (1 mm) and was slightly greater than the orifice diameter (4.2 +/- 1.7 mm versus 3.8 +/- 1.7 mm). however, cross-sectional areas were approximately fourfold the orifice areas, on average (52.5 +/- 24.6 mm2 versus 12.3 +/- 9.7 mm2), with a range of twelvefold (smallest orifice) to threefold (largest orifice). when the sample volume size was reduced from 2.4 to 1.0 mm, color areas decreased by 25.6 +/- 6.0%. slit-shaped orifices were studied with two different orientations of the slit-parallel and perpendicular to the ultrasound beam: color m-mode measurements were again slightly greater than length and width of the slit, but cross-sectional areas were substantially larger than the orifice areas and increased between 44% and 115% when changing the orientation of the slit from perpendicular to parallel. this, again, reflected problems with lateral resolution. when cross-sectional areas were measured at increasing distances from the orifice, the cross-sectional jet area increased significantly within a few millimeters. this increase was greater with higher gradients and smaller orifice sizes. in case of a small orifice (2 mm) and a high gradient (130 to 160 mm hg), increase in area was as great as 122% within a distance of only 5 mm. thus, proximal jet width and cross-sectional area were directly related to the orifice size, which could be a valuable parameter for the evaluation of valvular regurgitation. measurements of jet width by color m-mode seemed to be most accurate but are limited by the fact that in vivo valvular defects may be irregular rather than of circular shape.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
coronary artery anomalies in 126,595 patients undergoing coronary arteriography. coronary artery anomalies were found in 1,686 patients (1.3% incidence) undergoing coronary arteriography at the cleveland clinic foundation from 1960 to 1988. of the 1,686 patients, 1,461 (87%) had anomalies of origin and distribution, and 225 (13%) had coronary artery fistulae. most coronary anomalies did not result in signs, symptoms, or complications, and usually were discovered as incidental findings at the time of catheterization. eighty-one percent were "benign" anomalies: 1) separate origin of the left anterior descending and circumflex from the left sinus of valsalva; 2) ectopic origin of the circumflex from the right sinus of valsalva; 3) ectopic coronary origin from the posterior sinus of valsalva; 4) anomalous coronary origin from the ascending aorta; 5) absent circumflex; 6) intercoronary communications; and 7) small coronary artery fistulae. other anomalies may be associated with potentially serious sequelae such as angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, syncope, cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, or sudden death. potentially serious anomalies include: 1) ectopic coronary origin from the pulmonary artery; 2) ectopic coronary origin from the opposite aortic sinus; 3) single coronary artery; and 4) large coronary fistulae. coronary artery anomalies require accurate recognition, and at times, surgical correction.
interstitial cystitis: successful management by increasing urinary voiding intervals. a variant of the interstitial cystitis (ic) syndrome, minimal or no pain or significant pain that has been lessened by another therapy, can be clinically improved by retraining of the individual's voiding pattern. patients with greater pain but capable of completing this protocol also may be helped. while this group of patients fills the diagnostic criteria of ic and has many of the classic changes, many differ in that they have minimal or no pain, while simultaneously they have a dysfunctional bladder as expected from long-term low-volume voiding. all patients were placed on a protocol which focused on progressively increasing intervals between voids. fifteen to thirty minutes initially were added to their present voiding time. the same increase was added to the voiding pattern every three or four weeks until an interval of three to four hours between voids was achieved. twenty-one patients fit the criteria to be entered into this study. overall 71 percent (15/21) had successful management of their symptoms and reported a 50 percent decrease in their symptoms of urinary urgency, frequency, and nocturia. nineteen percent (4/21) reported 25 percent decrease in symptoms and 10 percent had no change. presence of significant pain adversely affects outcome, 3/7 (with pain) improvements versus 12/14 (without pain). for all patients there was a significant increase in bladder capacity (92 ml average before study and 179 ml after) and average daily voids (13.2/day prestudy and 7.4 post-therapy). these differences in voided profiles were statistically significant (p value less than 0.01).
a prospective analysis of intramuscular meperidine, promethazine, and chlorpromazine in pediatric emergency department patients. study objective: to examine physiologic responses and efficacy of 2, 1, and 1 mg/kg im meperidine, promethazine, and chlorpromazine (mpc), respectively, in children. design: prospective, unblinded trial. setting: a university and community emergency department. patients: sixty-three hemodynamically and neurologically stable children. intervention: single dose of im mpc. measurements and main results: serial respirations, heart rate, arterial systolic blood pressure, oxygen saturation, and glasgow coma scale were measured at 30-minute intervals. effectiveness was assessed by two independent observers using separate visual analog scales for cooperation and sedation. times to sleep (27 +/- 24 minutes), sitting upright (103 +/- 87 minutes), ed discharge (4.7 +/- 2.4 hours), eating (11 +/- 7.9 hours), and normal behavior (19 +/- 15 hours) were acceptable. minor, but statistically significant, changes in respiration rate (-1.9 +/- 0.4), heart rate (+4.5 +/- 1.8), oxygen saturation (-0.7 +/- 0.3%), and glasgow coma scale (-2.5 +/- 0.6) occurred for 120 minutes after mpc. no serious complications or resuscitation were required. mean visual analog scale scores were 5.0/10.4 or more in 71% of cases, with interobserver agreement very good (cooperation, r = .79; effectiveness, r = .80). twenty-nine percent of children were judged insufficiently sedated. conclusion: im mpc is a safe and generally effective agent for ed procedures in selected children.
efficacy of octreotide acetate in treatment of severe postgastrectomy dumping syndrome. the present study evaluates the acute and chronic use of a long-acting somatostatin analog, octreotide acetate, in the treatment of patients with severe postgastrectomy dumping syndrome. in the acute phase, 10 patients with severe dumping were studied over 2 consecutive days before and for 3 hours after the ingestion of a 'dumping breakfast' in a randomized double-blind fashion. on one day octreotide (100 micrograms) was given subcutaneously 30 minutes before the test meal and on the other day an equal volume of vehicle was injected. an additional group of six postgastrectomy patients without dumping were studied in a similar fashion and these acted as controls. during placebo treatment the test meal resulted in an immediate increase (p less than 0.01) in the pulse rate and in plasma levels of glucose, glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide, neurotensin, and insulin. similar changes were seen in the control group with respect to placebo; however glucagon and neurotensin (p less than 0.05) did not show the same magnitude of increase as seen with placebo. treatment with octreotide acetate prevented the development of both vasomotor and gastrointestinal symptoms and completely ablated all of the above responses in plasma peptides. these changes were associated with complete ablation of diarrhea (p less than 0.001). pretreatment with octreotide acetate completely suppressed the rise in plasma insulin response to the meal and this ablated the late hypoglycemia of dumping. treatment with octreotide acetate resulted in delayed gastric emptying and transit time (578 +/- 244 minutes) versus 76 +/- 23 minutes with placebo and 125 +/- 36 minutes in controls (p less than 0.05). chronic daily treatment with octreotide acetate resulted in minimal side effects. these patients demonstrated a stable fasting plasma glucose, normal liver function tests, and an average weight gain of 11% during a 12-month period. in addition most patients were able to resume employment. the long-acting somatostatin analog, octreotide acetate, is highly effective in preventing the development of symptoms of severe dumping syndrome, both vasomotor and gastrointestinal.
organ hypertrophy and responses of colon microbial populations of growing swine to high dietary protein. thirty-two castrated male crossbred growing pigs (average initial wt 26.9 kg) were used to determine the effect of a high level of dietary protein (37%) compared with a normal level of protein (15%) on enterobacteria and campylobacter sp. inhabitation in the large intestine and on visceral organ hypertrophy and the interrelationships between these two factors. pigs were kept in pairs (eight pens of two pigs/diet) and fed their respective diets and libitum. eight pigs (two pens of two pigs fed each diet) were killed at wk 4, 8, 12 and 16 without fasting. fecal samples were obtained every 2 wk from animals scheduled for necropsy at 16 wk, and colon contents were obtained from all pigs at necropsy; samples were enumerated individually for enterobacteria and campylobacter sp. weights of heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, perirenal fat and empty stomach, small intestine and large intestine were recorded at necropsy. stomach, cecum and proximal colon were sectioned for histopathologic examination. daily body weight gain was depressed by high dietary protein, but liver and kidneys were heavier in the high protein group than in controls at each time interval. mild lymphoid hyperplasia of peyer's patches in the small intestine in some pigs in both groups was indicative of antigenic stimulation but not of pathologic significance. there was no effect of diet on counts of enterobacteria or campylobacter sp. in feces or colon contents during the 16-wk experiment. we conclude that the hypertrophic response of the tissues of growing pigs to high dietary protein is not the result of the presence of campylobacter sp. or enterobacteria in the colon contents.
effects of local reduction in pressure on distensibility and composition of cerebral arterioles. this study examined effects of local reductions in mean and pulse pressures on cerebral arterioles in normotensive wistar-kyoto rats (wky) and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrsp). wky and shrsp underwent clipping of one carotid artery at 1 month of age. at 10-12 months of age, mechanics of pial arterioles were examined in vivo in anesthetized rats. bilateral craniotomies were performed to expose pial arterioles in the sham and clipped cerebral hemispheres. stress-strain relations were calculated from measurements of pial arteriolar pressure (servo null), diameter, and cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall. point counting stereology was used to quantitate individual components in the arteriolar wall. before deactivation of smooth muscle with edta, mean (pm) and pulse (pp) pressures were significantly less (p less than 0.05) in clipped than in sham arterioles in wky (pm, 63 +/- 2 versus 73 +/- 2 mm hg; pp, 23 +/- 3 versus 30 +/- 3 mm hg) and shrsp (pm, 94 +/- 4 versus 110 +/- 4 mm hg; pp, 27 +/- 2 versus 38 +/- 3 mm hg). cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall was less (p less than 0.05) in clipped than in sham arterioles in both groups of rats (1,403 +/- 125 versus 1,683 +/- 125 microns2 in wky; 1,436 +/- 72 versus 1,926 +/- 134 microns2 in shrsp). there was a correlation between cross-sectional area of the vessel wall and pulse pressure (r2 = 0.66), but not mean pressure (r2 = 0.09). during maximal dilatation with edta, the stress-strain curve was shifted to the left in clipped arterioles of shrsp, but not of wky, which indicates that carotid clipping in shrsp reduces passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles. the proportion of distensible components in the vessel wall (smooth muscle, elastin, and endothelium) was reduced in clipped arterioles in shrsp, but not in wky. these findings suggest that 1) vascular hypertrophy of cerebral arterioles is related more closely to pulse pressure than to mean pressure, and 2) reduction of pial arteriolar pressure completely prevents cerebral vascular hypertrophy and attenuates increases in passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles in shrsp.
endoscopic ultrasonography for the evaluation of smooth muscle tumors in the upper gastrointestinal tract: an experience with 42 cases. before surgery, 12 patients with suspected leiomyoma and 12 patients with suspected leiomyosarcoma were studied by endoscopic ultrasonography (eus), computed tomography (ct), endoscopy, and barium swallow. the results were correlated with surgery and histology. ten leiomyomas, one benign gastric ulcer, one carcinoid metastasis, eight leiomyosarcomas, two leiomyoblastomas, one mucus secreting adenocarcinoma, and one bronchial carcinoma were diagnosed. eighteen additional patients suspected to have benign submucosal lesions by endoscopy and barium meal were treated non-surgically, and studied by eus and ct. eus was superior to other imaging techniques in the detection, staging, and follow-up of submucosal smooth muscle tumors because of clear imaging of the intramural abnormality and adjacent lymph nodes.
prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. the prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. a group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography. the clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them. in 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal ph and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests, ie, acid perfusion, edrophonium stimulation, balloon distension, and ergonovine stimulation, all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring. in 19 of these 37 patients, the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic st-t segment alterations; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr ph and pressure recording. these data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram.
the determination of aortic valve area by the gorlin formula: what the cardiac sonographer should know. the application of the gorlin formula in the cardiac catheterization laboratory is the standard of reference for the determination of aortic valve area. the continuity equation now enables the cardiac sonographer to determine aortic valve area noninvasively in the echocardiography laboratory. the comparison of the results obtained by the two methods is inevitable. the cardiac sonographer should have a basic understanding of the theory and pitfalls of the gorlin formula so that when conflicting results are obtained, the possible reasons why will be clear.
otological manifestations of a new familial polyostotic bone disorder. fifty members of a family with a unique autosomal dominant bone disease were investigated. nineteen of the family members were either known to have, or were strongly suspected of having the disease. all but one of these had a hearing loss which was conductive in the younger age group and mixed in the older members. the common finding in those who had middle ear surgery was replacement of the long process of incus by a fibrous band. the histological features were similar to those found in paget's disease. the age of onset, distribution of lesions and radiographic findings, however, were not typical of this disorder.
homeobox gene expression plus autocrine growth factor production elicits myeloid leukemia. in the murine myelomonocytic leukemia wehi-3b, proviral insertions have induced expression of the hox-2.4 homeobox gene and the gene for the myeloid growth factor interleukin 3 (il-3). to assess their potential oncogenic role, normal bone marrow cells were infected with retroviruses bearing the genes for il-3 or il-3 plus hox-2.4. unlike the il-3 virus, the il-3/hox-2.4 virus was highly leukemogenic. infected cells expressing both genes exhibited retarded differentiation in vitro, generated myelomonocytic cell lines, and provoked a rapid, transplantable myeloid leukemia in vivo. the oncogenic action of hox-2.4 appears to derive from its ability to impede the il-3-driven terminal differentiation of myeloid cells. the results suggest that homeobox genes can regulate key differentiation processes such as self-renewal capacity and that their inappropriate expression can be oncogenic.
skewflap versus long posterior flap in below-knee amputations: multicenter trial. a multicenter trial of alternative techniques for below-knee amputation is described in which surgeons in 11 centers randomized 191 patients with end-stage occlusive vascular disease to two different methods of stump construction. the skewflap technique was performed in 98 and the long posterior flap was performed in 93. the two groups were well matched in respect to age, sex, smoking, diabetes, and indications for amputation. early outcome was compared in terms of 30-day mortality rate: skew 11 (11%) deaths versus long posterior flap 16 (17%); the state of the wound at 1 week (primary healing 60% in both groups); the need for surgical revision at the same level 7 (7%) versus 7 (8%), and revision to a higher level 10 (10%) versus 7 (8%). follow-up information at 6 months was available from records or by mailed questionnaire in 188 (98%) at 6 months, 20 died during that interval. it showed that a prosthetic limb was fitted to 64 (84%) of skew flaps and 50 (77%) of long posterior flaps. walking, alone or with support, was achieved in 59 (78%) and 46 (71%), respectively. none of these differences reached statistical significance. it is concluded that the skew flap is just as effective as the long posterior flap and is an excellent option for below-knee amputation.
mycobacterial infection after renal transplantation--report of 14 cases and review of the literature. during a nine-year period, 14 cases of mycobacterial infection (tuberculosis) developed in 403 renal transplant recipients at the king faisal specialist hospital and research centre in riyadh, saudi arabia, an incidence of 3.5 per cent. the annual incidence of tuberculosis was about 50 times higher than that in the general population. infection was disseminated in nine (64.3 per cent), pulmonary in four (28.6 per cent), and genitourinary in 1 (7.1 per cent). in one patient tuberculosis was transmitted by the donor's kidney. the clinical manifestations were often ill-defined and not different from that in the normal host. cultures from all patients grew mycobacterium tuberculosis; concomitant infection with other organisms was present in five patients (35.7 per cent). two of 18 patients (group 1) with positive pretransplant tuberculin skin test developed tuberculosis after transplantation (11 per cent), and neither received isoniazid prophylaxis; three of 70 patients (group 2) with negative skin tests developed tuberculosis after transplantation (4.3 per cent). the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant. review of all published cases of mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients revealed 130 cases. tuberculosis was disseminated in 38.7 per cent, pulmonary in 40.2 per cent, cutaneous in 12 per cent, and miscellaneous in 9.4 per cent. atypical mycobacteria were responsible for 29 per cent of disseminated infections, 8 per cent of pulmonary infections and all cases of cutaneous and articular tuberculosis. invasive procedures were needed to establish the diagnosis in 21 of 33 disseminated cases but in only three of 47 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis (p less than 0.0001). the mortality rate from disseminated disease was 37 per cent and from all other forms of tuberculosis was 11 per cent (p less than 0.005). these findings (1) confirm the higher incidence of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients, compared to the general population; (2) suggest that pretransplant skin testing probably has little value in identifying patients at risk; (3) show that disseminated tuberculosis is common after renal transplantation and requires invasive procedures for diagnosis; (4) confirm that the donor kidney may be an important source of infection; and (5) indicate that concomitant infection with other organisms is common.
diagnosis of acute rupture of the quadriceps tendon by magnetic resonance imaging. a case report. quadriceps tendon rupture occurred in a 56-year-old man receiving anticoagulant therapy. the diagnosis was inconclusive until magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was used to delineate the rupture site clearly. mri is a useful adjunct to diagnosis of soft-tissue injuries in cases in which swelling or other soft-tissue abnormalities obscure examination or preclude the use of more routine diagnostic modalities.
a new challenge--robotics in the rehabilitation of the neurologically motor impaired. rehabilitation robotics is a research area, originating in engineering, that has emerged in the last decade. its broad aim is to use robot technology to assist people with movement dysfunction. the neurologically impaired population might gain considerably from the provision of robots as "assistants" or "therapy aides," but the interface with the machine must match both the physical and intellectual abilities of the user. we therefore consider a multidisciplinary approach, encompassing both behavioral and engineering perspectives, to be essential in achieving this aim. however, to date, published reports have been largely restricted to engineering journals or conference reports, and relatively little has appeared in the therapy literature. this article seeks to introduce physical therapists to robotics, describe possible applications to the rehabilitation of neurologically impaired patients, and suggest issues deserving further investigation.
clinical and hemodynamic assessment of the hepatojugular reflux. the hepatojugular reflux (hjr) test was studied to assess the ability to clinically predict response during cardiac catheterization and to determine its significance in patients without heart failure and correlate it to their baseline hemodynamic parameters. sixty-five patients considered to be free of heart failure undergoing routine cardiac catheterization were enrolled. the hjr test, defined as the venous pressure response to sustained abdominal compression, was performed in a standardized manner at the bedside assessing change in internal jugular venous pressure and during right-sided cardiac catheterization measuring change in right atrial pressure. for comparison a sustained increase greater than or equal to 1 cm was considered positive. in 62 of 65 patients the hjr test stabilized by 15 seconds. the results during examination at the bedside agreed with those at catheterization (k = 0.74, p less than 0.001). the hjr test result correlated best with baseline mean right atrial pressure (r = 0.59) and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure (r = 0.51), and in bivariate regression analysis predicted right atrial (f(1,63) = 32.8, r2 = 0.34, p less than 0.0001) and right ventricular end-diastolic (f(1,63) = 22, r2 = 0.26, p less than 0.0001) pressures. a positive test had high sensitivity and specificity for predicting right atrial pressure greater than 9 mm hg (1.0, 0.85) and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure greater than 12 mm hg (0.90, 0.89). it is concluded that 15 seconds is adequate for interpretation, and bedside observation predicts the response during right-sided cardiac catheterization.
elective radical neck dissection in epidermoid cancer of the head and neck. a retrospective analysis of 853 cases of mouth, pharynx, and larynx cancer. a retrospective analysis of 853 patients with cancer of the mouth, pharynx, and larynx operated on over a 30-year period was performed. four hundred fifty-seven of them had a radical neck dissection (rnd) at some point. five hundred ninety patients had no clinically positive nodes (n-o) necks at the time of primary treatment; 99 of these had elective neck dissection, whereas 95 others had a delayed rnd when nodes became clinically involved. twenty-three percent of all n-o patients had microscopically involved nodes and less than half of these were among those patients selected for elective rnd. furthermore, 58% of those patients who had elective rnd did not have positive nodes. comparative analysis of elective rnd, delayed therapeutic rnd after clinical appearance of nodes, and composite operations for patients with n1-n3 disease indicates little difference in disease-free survival when the nodes in the elective rnd were positive microscopically for tumors (56%, 49% and 47% respectively). it thus seems that elective rnd offers no real advantage over a careful watchful waiting approach in most patients.
mortality after 10 1/2 years for hypertensive participants in the multiple risk factor intervention trial the multiple risk factor intervention trial (mrfit) is a randomized primary prevention trial that tested the effect of a multifactor intervention program on coronary heart disease (chd) mortality in 12,866 high-risk men aged 35-57 years. men were randomly assigned to either a special intervention (si) program, which consisted of dietary advice for lowering blood cholesterol levels, counseling aimed at cessation for cigarette smokers, and stepped-care treatment for hypertension for those with elevated blood pressure, or to their usual sources of health care within the community (uc). among the 12,866 randomized men, 8,012 (62%) were hypertensive at baseline. for this subgroup, mortality rates with 10.5 years of follow-up were lower for the si than for the uc group by 15% (p = 0.19) for chd and 11% (p = 0.13) for all causes. these results reflected more favorable outcomes for si compared with uc hypertensive men during the 3.8 posttrial years (march 1982 through december 1985) than during the preceding 6-8 years (through february 1982). during the posttrial years, death rates were lower for si than for uc men by 26% (p = 0.09) for chd and 23% (p = 0.02) for all causes. for those with diastolic blood pressure equal to or more than 100 mm hg, this posttrial trend was a continuation of a trend during the trial; therefore, with 10.5 years of follow-up, death rates were markedly lower for si than for uc by 36% (p = 0.07) for chd and 50% (p = 0.0001) for all causes. similarly, for those without baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities, the favorable posttrial outcome for the si group was a continuation of a trend during the trial. in contrast, for those with baseline diastolic blood pressure of 90-99 mm hg and for those with baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities, the favorable posttrial mortality findings for the si group were a reversal of unfavorable trends recorded during the trial. two factors appear to have contributed to this more favorable mortality trend for the si group: 1) a change in the diuretic treatment protocol for si men about 5 years after randomization, which involved replacement of hydrochlorothiazide with chlorthalidone at a daily maximum dose of 50 mg; and 2) a favorable effect of intervention on nonfatal cardiovascular events during the trial years. in addition, delay until the full impact of beneficial effects on mortality end points from smoking cessation and cholesterol lowering could have contributed.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease. anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined, incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects. six patients had a high spinal lesion, 11 had a low spinal lesion, and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions. patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation. unlike normal subjects, there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes. the external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced, and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon. patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, blunted rectal sensation, and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures. most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers. sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions. patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, impaired rectal sensation, and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure. leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions.
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure: a retrospective study. we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications, laboratory data and therapeutic interventions. the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness (40.7%) and convulsions (35.1%). when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1.73 m2, alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1.73 m2, abnormal convulsives appeared. changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension. all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months, and six of them had hemodialysis. fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome. these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child.
occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection. angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare. before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively. we report mri scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome. mri was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics, especially chronic hemorrhage. one patient underwent biopsy of the lesion. the other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision. occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized. the mri scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions. in certain patients, these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function.
hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome--a complication of dactinomycin therapy for wilms' tumor: a report from the united kingdom childrens cancer study group. we have observed hepatopathy, associated with thrombocytopenia, in children receiving chemotherapy for wilms' tumor. we have studied this hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome (hts) in patients enrolled in the united kingdom childrens' cancer study group (ukccsg) wilms' tumor trials (ukw1 and ukw2). at the time of this study, 501 patients had completed therapy. treatment flow sheets were examined for evidence of hepatopathy (hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests) and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than 25 x 10(9)/l). no child who developed the syndrome had received irradiation. hts was seen in five of 355 (1.4%) of patients treated with combination chemotherapy but in none of the 146 patients treated with vincristine alone. in each instance, the onset was less than 10 weeks after diagnosis. in two children, hepatopathy was severe with jaundice, ascites, transaminases greater than 1,000 iu/l, and prolongation of prothrombin time. on average, hts lasted 12 days, and resolved with supportive treatment. after recovery, the children tolerated chemotherapy, mostly at reduced dosage, without recurrence. there was no evident long-term morbidity. dactinomycin is the probable cause of this syndrome. we conclude that the hts is a rare but important complication of dactinomycin-containing combination chemotherapy for wilms' tumor. children developing "isolated" thrombocytopenia following dactinomycin are "at risk" of developing the full-blown syndrome and should have their treatment modified accordingly.
brief intensive chemotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase ii study of the weekly code regimen. fifty-three patients, 17 with stage iiib and 36 with stage iv non-small-cell lung cancer, were given code (cisplatin, vincristine, doxorubicin, and etoposide) plus antibiotic prophylaxis and an antiemetic regimen in an intensive chemotherapy program emphasizing weekly treatment and a planned brief duration (9-12 weeks); for 45 of these patients, the code program also included antifungal prophylaxis and supportive corticosteroids. of the total study population, 33 patients (62%) responded to treatment, including five (9%) with complete response. the median survival for the entire group was 42 weeks (55 weeks for those with stage iiib and 39 weeks for those with stage iv). more than 40% were alive at 1 year. comparison of granulocyte counts of patients receiving prednisone with those of the subgroup to whom no corticosteroids were given showed less granulocytopenia for those receiving prednisone. use of prednisone thus allowed improved delivery of myelosuppressive drugs. code was halted in nine patients because of disease progression. although more constitutional side effects are associated with weekly chemotherapy than with standard chemotherapy, only 12 of the remaining 44 patients (27%) failed to receive at least 9 weeks of treatment. serious toxicity was uncommon: there were no treatment-related deaths and only three episodes of neutropenia with fever. code is a novel treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer that this pilot study provided entirely in an outpatient setting over a 9-12 week period with an acceptable incidence of toxicity and a promising level of efficacy. additional testing and comparison with other regimens or supportive care alone are warranted.
flow cytometric dna analysis of parathyroid tumors. implication of aneuploidy for pathologic and biologic classification. the previous cytometric studies on parathyroid tumors have provided conflicting data regarding the relationship between dna content and histopathology, resulting from differences in technical methods and data analysis. this study measured nuclear dna of parathyroid tumors by flow cytometry in fresh material and determined whether dna aneuploidy really assists in making a pathologic diagnosis of carcinoma or not. from may 1987 through april 1989, 65 consecutive patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism had dna analysis of the freshly excised parathyroid tumors. three of the patients had metastatic lesions of parathyroid carcinoma in the lung, cervical lymph nodes, and lung and mediastinal lymph nodes, respectively. pathologic classifications of the lesions from the other 62 patients were 54 adenomas, four carcinomas, and four hyperplasias. in all the latter patients, hyperplasia was associated with a multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome. unequivocal evidence of aneuploidy was found in all of the metastatic lesions and 60% of the primary lesions of the carcinomas, in 9% of the adenomas and in 50% of the hyperplasias. therefore, parathyroid carcinomas were more apt to be aneuploid than were adenomas (p = 0.0015, both-sided testing). in each of the cases of aneuploid hyperplasia, a small aneuploid peak was found. the high incidence of aneuploidy in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 may indicate the presence of clonal heterogeneity of hyperplastic glands and the presence of an abnormal subset of cells that have malignant potential. cell distribution analysis did not provide any significant information beyond ploidy level. in conclusion, dna flow cytometric analysis of dna ploidy patterns is a valuable adjunct to the histopathologic diagnosis of parathyroid neoplasms.
coagulation factor abnormalities as possible thrombotic risk factors after fontan operations. severe thromboembolism occurred in 3 of 37 patients who had undergone fontan-type operations for correction of congenital heart defects several months to years after the operation. the patients were screened for coagulation factor abnormalities to find out whether known prothrombotic risk factors could explain the high frequency of thromboembolism. 63 abnormalities were found in 24 of the 37 patients. the commonest and most pronounced abnormality was deficiency of protein c, a known risk factor. concentrations of antithrombin iii and factors ii and x were significantly lower in protein-c-deficient patients than in those with normal protein c concentrations. these findings suggest that the high thrombotic risk in these patients is caused or at least associated with an imbalance between procoagulant and anticoagulant factors.
progression of stage t1 bladder tumors after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin [published erratum appears in j urol 1991 apr;145(4):840] of 221 patients with superficial bladder tumors (stages ta, tis and t1) treated by transurethral resection and an initial 6-week course of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg) 195 were evaluated after 3 months for local response. of these patients 17 (8.7%) had a stage t1 tumor, of whom 14 (82%) subsequently had muscle invasion (7), uncontrolled local disease (6) or metastasis (1). the median interval to progression was 8.4 months, which was significantly (p = 0.0001) less than among the other 178 patients with a nonstage t1 lesion or no tumor found at 3 months, of whom 44 (25%) had progression (median more than 5 years). these data suggest that patients with stage t1 tumor 3 months after bcg therapy require additional therapy other than simple tumor resection and meticulous followup.
full-thickness skin graft vaginoplasty for treatment of the stenotic or foreshortened vagina. vaginal stenosis or foreshortening following surgery or radiation therapy can lead to dyspareunia. this report concerns the successful use of full-thickness skin grafts taken from the flank overlying the iliac crest to treat vaginal stenosis or foreshortening. the operation consists of incising the involved area and creating a space which will become the recipient site. an elliptical piece of full-thickness skin harvested from the area overlying the iliac crest is cleared of underlying fat, trimmed to fit the recipient site, and sutured in place. vaginal packing is used to keep the graft against the recipient bed. ten patients have been treated successfully with this technique, without significant complications or sequelae. follow-up from 6 weeks to 42 months showed excellent postsurgical vaginal capacity in all patients. similarly, excellent functional results were achieved in eight patients, with distinct improvement in the remaining two. this procedure is a useful addition to the gynecologic surgeon's armamentarium.
acute dissection of the internal mammary artery: a fatal complication of coronary artery bypass grafting. a case of acute traumatic dissection of the right internal mammary artery is presented in a patient who had both imas grafted for recurrent angina 10 years after initial vein coronary revascularisation. the event was mistaken for spasm, but because of severe circulatory collapse no time was available to treat the patient appropriately. the purpose of this report is to facilitate the early recognition and avoidance of this potentially fatal complication.
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules in the liver of patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. virus-specific t-cell responses are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of liver cell injury secondary to hepatitis b virus infection. in this study, liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were analyzed for expression of two major pathways of adhesion used by cytotoxic t cells to interact with target cells. the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 was found preferentially expressed on hepatocytes of patients with active hepatitis b virus replication, whereas the expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on hepatocytes seemed more closely related with inflammatory activity. adhesion molecules were also highly expressed on t lymphocytes found in areas of piecemeal and spotty necrosis, indicating the presence of antigen-specific "memory" t cells at the site of hepatocellular injury. this study suggests that the expression of the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 on hepatocytes may be important for viral elimination. the coordinate expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 may regulate inflammatory response and enhance viral antigen presentation to t cells. conversely, the absence of hepatocyte adhesion molecules might be a favorable factor for viral persistence.
islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices. report of a case and review of the literature. gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas. islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare. they present in a variety of ways. those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes. nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement. we present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation. we emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery.
endoscopic transpapillary therapy for disrupted pancreatic duct and peripancreatic fluid collections. eighteen patients with active pancreatic ductal disruptions, including 14 with definable fluid collections, were treated with transpapillary pancreatic duct drains or stents. twelve of these patients had undergone a previous percutaneous or surgical pancreatic drainage procedure or both, and 8 had long-term drainage tubes in chronic fistulous tracts. transpapillary catheters could be placed across the ductal disruption or directly into the fluid collection in each case, and 16 of 18 patients had resolution of the disrupted pancreatic duct. twelve of 14 fluid collections resolved. complications were limited to mild exacerbation of pancreatitis symptoms in 2 patients and 2 patients who developed subsequent stent occlusion leading to recurrent pancreatitis (1 patient) or recurrent duct blowout with pseudocyst (1 patient). nine patients had variably significant ductal changes attributable to pancreatic duct stents. at a median follow-up of 16 months, 7 patients ultimately required surgery for ongoing pancreatic pain or residual/recurrent fluid collection. the transpapillary treatment of ongoing pancreatic ductal disruption with or without fluid collection has the potential to obviate surgery in some patients, change an urgent surgical procedure into an elective one, or even assist the surgeon in the performance of intraoperative pancreatography. further study of this technique appears warranted and must be placed into the perspective of current therapies.
would you recognize celiac axis syndrome? since its original description, celiac axis syndrome has been a topic of debate. clinical findings include postprandial abdominal pain, weight loss, and an epigastric bruit. diagnosis is often made by exclusion and is confirmed by lateral aortography. the role of surgery in treating celiac axis syndrome is controversial.
modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences. the influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive (shr) and the dahl salt-sensitive (ss/jr) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal f1 hybrids that were nurtured, respectively, during prenatal and postnatal life by shr or ss/jr mothers. following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8% nacl at 35 days of age, f1 rats reared by shr mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than f1s reared by ss/jrs. across reciprocal f1 female groups, enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure, but this association was not seen across reciprocal f1 male groups. there was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each f1/gender subgroup: rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke. lower day 35 body weights (before exposure to the high-salt diet) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal f1 groups, and within three of the four f1/gender subgroups. the differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal f1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of shr and ss/jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers.
ligamentous laxity across c0-c1-c2 complex. axial torque-rotation characteristics until failure. the axial torque until failure of the ligamentous occipito-atlanto-axial complex (c0-c1-c2) subjected to axial angular rotation (theta) was characterized using a biaxial mts system. a special fixture and gearbox that permitted right axial rotation of the specimen until failure without imposing any additional constraints were designed to obtain the data. the average values for the axial rotation and torque at the point of maximum resistance were, respectively, 68.1 degrees and 13.6 n-m. the specimens offered minimal resistance (approximately 0.5 n-m), up to an average axial rotation of 21 degrees across the complex. the torque-angular rotation (t-theta) curve can be divided into four regions: regions of least and steadily increasing resistances, a transition zone that connects these two regions, and the increasing resistance region to the point of maximum resistance. the regions of least and steadily increasing resistances may be represented by two straight lines with average slopes of 0.028 and 0.383 n-m/degree, respectively. post-test dissection of the specimens disclosed the following. the point of maximum resistance corresponded roughly to the value of axial rotation at which complete bilateral rotary dislocation of the c1-c2 facets occurred. the types of injuries observed were related to the magnitude of axial rotation imposed on a specimen during testing. soft-tissue injuries alone (like stretch/rupture of the capsular ligaments, subluxation of the c1-c2 facets, etc.) were confined to specimens rotated up to or close to the point of maximum resistance. the specimens that were subjected to rotations up to the point of maximum resistance of the curve spontaneously reduced completely on removal from the testing apparatus. spontaneous reduction was not possible for specimens tested slightly beyond their points of maximum resistance.
immunohistochemical study of fibronectin in experimental myocardial infarction. light microscopic immunohistochemical studies were performed to evaluate the distribution of fibronectin in paraffin sections of p-formaldehyde-fixed normal rat hearts and the hearts of rats that had undergone ligation of the left coronary artery. a peroxidase-labeled antibody technique was used, together with appropriate immunohistochemical control procedures, for the localization of fibronectin in normal hearts and in the hearts of sham-operated animals. fibronectin was localized in the interstitial space between myocytes, and beneath arterial, venous, and capillary endothelium. at 4 hours after coronary ligation, fibronectin was localized in a patchy fashion in the cytoplasm and interstitial space of some of the myocytes in the area supplied by the ligated vessel. at 24 hours, there was more intense, homogeneous staining in necrotic myocytes in the infarcted area and in the capillary endothelium in the border zone. at 48 hours, the intensity of staining for fibronectin was maximal in and between the necrotic myocytes in the center of the infarct and in proliferating and migrating capillaries and fibroblasts in the border zone. similar patterns of localization were observed at 3 and 7 days after coronary ligation, but with progressive decreases in the intensity of staining. two sources of fibronectin appeared to have contributed to these changes: plasma fibronectin diffusing through damaged blood vessels would account for the early staining observed in necrotic myocytes in the center of the infarct, whereas de novo synthesis of fibronectin by connective tissue cells and endothelial cells in sprouting capillaries would be responsible for the subsequent staining observed in viable capillaries in the border zone of the infarct. known properties of fibronectin in vitro, combined with these in vivo observations, indicate that fibronectin may influence the thrombotic, inflammatory, angiogenic, and fibrotic processes involved in infarct healing.
benign and malignant nodules in cirrhotic livers: distinction based on blood supply. the blood supplies of nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis were analyzed in vivo with various imaging modalities. the portal blood supply was evaluated with computed tomography (ct) during arterial portography (ctap); the arterial blood supply was evaluated with hepatic angiography, ct angiography, ct following intraarterial injection of iodized oil, or ultrasound following intraarterial injection of carbon dioxide microbubbles. a total of 84 surgically confirmed hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs) (less than or equal to 3 cm) and 25 areas of adenomatous hyperplasia (ah) were included in the study. at ctap, a portal blood supply was seen in 96% of cases of ah and only 6% of hccs (chi 2, p less than .005). in contrast, an arterial supply greater than that of the surrounding liver was verified in 94% of the hccs and only 4% of the cases of ah (chi 2, p less than .005). the blood supply of areas of ah with atypical hepatocytes and the blood supply of well-differentiated hccs (edmondson grade 1) tended to be intermediate between that of ah without atypia and that of hcc that was edmondson and steiner grade 2 or greater. evaluation of the blood supply of the nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis is considered to be useful in the differential diagnosis and treatment of early-stage hcc.
advances in medical imaging for cancer diagnosis and treatment. over the last several decades, significant "new eyes" have been developed that improve the diagnosis, treatment, planning, and monitoring of human cancer: computer tomography (ct), magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and spectroscopy (mrs), single photon emission computed tomography (spect), and positron emission tomography (pet). innovative advances in both morphologic and functional imaging have led to a dramatic improvement in our ability to diagnose and monitor human cancer. frequently, anatomic detail can be demonstrated in ways that exceed views at surgery, and functional biochemical imaging is being used to show the metabolic activity and receptor status of normal and pathologic states. in vivo functional and biochemical studies differentiate normal from neoplastic or nonviable tissue, and make it possible to measure progression or regression of the disease. because physiologic changes often precede morphologic findings in many disease processes, the use of in vivo biochemical probes can demonstrate disease before anatomic abnormalities become evident. gross changes in anatomy are no longer adequate endpoints for therapy protocols. today, using physiologic imaging, we can evaluate the response to treatment within hours of administration of therapy. adjuvant metabolic tumor imaging studies provide complimentary information to morphologic evaluation of human cancers that will ultimately lead to better patient care.
analysis of prognostic factors and clinicopathological staging of thymoma the prognostic value of four clinical variables (age and sex of patients, association with myasthenia gravis, and clinical stage) and histological type was analyzed in 83 consecutive patients with thymoma, histologically classified as cortical, medullary, and mixed. age, sex, and association with myasthenia gravis did not prove to represent significant prognostic factors; clinical stage and histological type, on the contrary, had a highly significant prognostic value (p less than 0.001). a model of clinicopathological staging, based on both clinical stage and histological type, in which three major prognostic groups are considered is proposed. the degree of significance of this model is higher (p less than 0.0001) than that of clinical stage and histological type considered individually; its validity is further supported by the results of multivariate analysis according to the cox regression model (p = 0.0001). we think it represents a prognostically valuable approach to the problem of management of thymoma.
inhibition of cell mediated cytotoxicity by sulphasalazine: effect of in vivo treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulphasalazine on in vitro natural killer cell activity. decreased cell mediated cytotoxicity occurs frequently in inflammatory bowel disease, particularly in patients with active disease. it is not clear, however, whether this decrease is caused by the disease or is a consequence of the medical treatment. in this study we evaluated the effect of in vivo treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulphasalazine on the in vitro natural killer cell activity in five patients with inflammatory bowel disease in remission and in four healthy control subjects in a double blind randomised crossover trial preceded and separated by four weeks of treatment with placebo. the natural killer cell activity was significantly impaired in 67% (six of nine subjects) after four weeks' sulphasalazine treatment and tended to be related to subjects with a slow acetylator phenotype. in contrast, 5-aminosalicylic acid treatment caused only a marginal reaction in the natural killer cell activity in 22% (two of nine subjects). the inhibitory effects were found to be reversible since the decreased natural killer cell activity was completely restored after placebo treatment in all subjects. in conclusion, in vivo treatment with sulphasalazine inhibits the in vitro natural killer cell activity and this seems to be mediated by the sulphapyridine moiety. this phenomenon may contribute to the low natural killer cell activity found in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease.
risk factors for transmission of hepatitis b virus to gambian children [published erratum appears in lancet 1990 dec 22-29;336(8730):1596] risk factors for hepatitis b virus transmission were examined in 973 gambian children aged 6 months to 5 years. 33% had evidence of infection with hepatitis b virus and a third of these were carriers. a significant association was found between infection and tropical ulcer scars, and between e antigenaemia and the presence of bedbugs in each child's bed. there was no association between infection and traditional scarring, circumcision, or injections. skin disease and arthropods are the two most likely modes of transmission of hepatitis b virus between children in west africa.
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii (p. carinii) in aids patients is uncommon, and is often described only at postmortem examination. although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen, p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described. despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia, p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver. we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities. we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease.
intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia: case report. a case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described. intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event. a review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients. no other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia.
movement analysis--an aid to early diagnosis of cerebral palsy. the purpose of this article is to review research related to the use of clinical analysis of movement as an aid to the early diagnosis of cerebral palsy. a historical perspective of clinical techniques used by physicians and physical therapists in the early diagnosis of cerebral palsy will be presented first, including recent research findings on clinical signs that were most predictive of this movement disorder. predictive neuromotor behaviors common across several recent studies will be highlighted. future trends in the use of movement analysis, including digitized kinematic analysis of term and preterm infants and fetal ultrasound techniques, will be discussed as well.
complications of tenckhoff catheters post removal. complications due to tenckhoff catheters can occur at prolonged intervals after their removal. from january 1979 to october 1989, 431 patients at our center began continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd), 278 of whom subsequently transferred to another form of renal replacement therapy. we identified 12 patients (4.3% or 12/278) with post removal catheter complications. there were 14 post removal complications, two each in two patients, and one in each of 12 others. the mean time to complication was 541 +/- 143 days (27-2,040). in 71% (10/14) of the complications, an abscess was found at the site of the previously removed tenckhoff catheter. in 29% (4/14) of the complications, foreign body material consistent with a retained cuff was recovered. documentation at the time of tenckhoff catheter removal should include a statement regarding the presence of the tenckhoff catheter cuffs, and patients with retained cuffs should be monitored closely for the development of abscesses or other complications. immunocompromised patients are at high risk for these complications.
effects of retrovenous myocardial drug delivery after coronary artery occlusion in sheep. retrovenous (rv) myocardial delivery of blood and drugs into the coronary sinus (cs) through a 3 lumen balloon catheter was evaluated in sheep (no coronary collaterals) for protection from ventricular fibrillation (vf) during coronary artery occlusion. the balloon was asynchronously inflated (cs occlusion) for 5 sec and then deflated for 5 sec with 1 cc/sec of flow. the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded with inflation of a percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography balloon and therapy started immediately. in a control group (no therapy, n = 4) all developed vf by 30 min after coronary artery occlusion. the drugs lidocaine (l), esmolol (e), adenosine (a), and deferoxamine (d) were evaluated for effects on eliminating developing vf with intravenous (i.v.) administration compared with rv administration with venous blood (vb) or arterial blood (ab). the percent survival after ca occlusion (no vf) was: l i.v., 0%; l rv with vb, 43%; l rv with ab, 17%; e i.v., 50%; e rv with vb, 70%; a. i.v., 29%; a rv with vb, 88%; d i.v., 17%; and d rv with ab, 80%. there was a trend toward lower myocardial necrosis (seen by tetrazolium stain and/or light microscopy) in the rv survivors (especially with vb) compared with the group i.v. survivors. these data suggest that rv antiarrhythmic drug delivery is a feasible alternative to i.v. administration during ca occlusion.
improved survival with the use of adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of medulloblastoma. between 1975 and 1989, 108 children with newly diagnosed medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor (mb/pnet) of the posterior fossa were treated at the authors' institution. the patients were managed uniformly, and treatment included aggressive surgical resections, postoperative staging evaluations for extent of disease, and craniospinal radiation therapy with a local boost. beginning in 1983, children with mb/pnet were prospectively assigned to risk groups; those with "standard-risk" mb/pnet were treated with radiation therapy alone, while those in the "poor-risk" group received similar radiation therapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy with 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (ccnu), vincristine, and cisplatin. the 5-year actuarial disease-free survival rate for all patients treated between 1975 and 1982 was 68%, and 73% when patients who died within 2 weeks after operation were excluded. this survival rate was statistically better for patients treated after 1982 (82%) compared to those treated between 1975 and 1982 (49%) (p less than 0.004). there was no difference in disease-free survival rates over time for children with standard-risk factors; however, there was a significant difference in the 5-year survival rate for poor-risk patients treated prior to 1982 (35%) compared to those treated later (87%) (p less than 0.001). for the group as a whole, a younger age at diagnosis correlated with a poorer survival rate; however, this relationship between age and outcome was significant only for children treated before 1983 (p less than 0.001). these results demonstrated an encouraging survival rate for children with mb/pnet, especially those treated with aggressive surgical resection followed by both radiation therapy and chemotherapy. the results strongly suggest that chemotherapy has a role for some, and possibly all, children with mb/pnet.
early assessment of coronary artery bypass graft patency by high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography. to assess the role of high-dose (up to 0.84 mg/kg during 10 minutes) dipyridamole echocardiographic testing in the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency early after surgery, 18 consecutive patients with angina underwent dipyridamole echocardiography and coronary angiography before and 7 to 10 days after bypass surgery. coronary angiography showed 2- or 3-vessel disease in 7 and 11 patients, respectively. a total of 53 bypass grafts were performed. before bypass surgery 14 patients had a positive and 4 a negative test result. no complication occurred during the test performed early after surgery. of the 14 patients with positive dipyridamole echocardiographic results before surgery, 10 had negative and 4 had positive results after surgery. all 4 patients had negative results before and after surgery. in the 4 patients with positive results after dipyridamole echocardiographic testing before and after bypass surgery, dipyridamole time increased from 5.8 +/- 5 to 9.3 +/- 0.9 minutes (p = 0.3) after the procedure and wall motion score index at peak dipyridamole changed from 1.55 +/- 0.2 to 1.28 +/- 0.3 (p = 0.05). forty-nine of 53 grafts were patent as seen on angiography. dipyridamole echocardiographic results were positive in 4 of 5 patients who had at least 1 obstructed graft or native vessel obstructed distal to bypass graft insertion. the remaining patient had diagnostic electrocardiographic changes during dipyridamole infusion without wall motion abnormalities. dipyridamole echocardiographic results were negative in all 13 patients who had complete revascularization. in the 4 patients with positive test results, the procedure correctly identified the localization of the diseased bypass graft.
double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial of progabide as add-on therapy in epileptic patients. in a double-blind, cross-over trial, progabide (pgb) and placebo were compared as add-on therapy in 59 patients with moderate to severe epilepsy. eight patients did not complete the study, 4 because of adverse drug reactions (elevation of liver transaminases, 2; gastritis, 1; and acute psychosis, 1) and 4 because of administrative reasons. among the remaining 51 patients, seizure frequency was reduced greater than 50% in 18 patients with pgb treatment and in 8 patients with placebo (p less than 0.05). the number of days with seizures was significantly (p = 0.034) reduced during pgb treatment. both patients' and physicians' preferences at the end of the trial were in favor (p less than 0.01) of pgb. mild clinical side effects were present in 54.7% of the patients treated with pgb and in 37.7% with placebo. increase in liver transaminases was observed in 2 patients during the double-blind study and in 1 during the follow-up period. our data show that pgb, as previously reported, is useful in 30-40% of patients who are not responding completely to other antiepileptic drugs (aeds). the compound is well tolerated, but liver function must be monitored.
biliobiliary fistula: preoperative diagnosis and management implications. experience with cholecystohepaticodochal and cholecystocholedochal fistulas as a result of an erosion of gallstones from the gallbladder into the adjacent common duct in five patients is presented. the incidence was 1.4% in a population of 350 patients undergoing cholecystectomy. the condition was indicated clinically on the basis of a symptom triad of jaundice, fever, and pain with cholelithiasis in a small contracted gallbladder. in addition, proximal intra- and extrahepatic ductal dilatation, calculus in the common duct, and normal-caliber (or unprofiled) distal common duct on ultrasound scan were present in all the patients. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography proved to be the most useful means of investigation, and it confirmed the diagnosis in four patients before surgery. a modified antegrade cholecystectomy was performed with the gallbladder opened inferiorly at the fundus, and the stones were evacuated. a partial cholecystectomy and choledochoplasty were accomplished with gallbladder flaps whenever feasible. other useful operative procedures are side-to-side hepaticodochojejunostomy and hepaticodochoduodenostomy. in the presence of high benign bile duct stricture, an approach to the left hepatic duct is now preferred for biliary bypass.
immunological identification and distribution of parathyroid hormone-like protein polypeptides in normal and malignant tissues. monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies recognizing human parathyroid hormone-like protein (pthlp) have been produced using a series of recombinant and synthetic pthlp peptides. these antibodies have been used to develop a two-site immunometric enzyme immunoassay which detects pthlp[1-87] and pthlp[1-141] but not pth. the immunoassay detected pthlp in extracts of squamous carcinomas and normal tissues at concentrations from 7-515 ng pthlp[1-87]/mg protein. immunoblotting of the extract which showed the highest immunoreactivity, a squamous carcinoma of the lung from a patient with hypercalcemia, revealed a major band having an apparent mol wt of 26,500 and several other higher mol wt bands. similar polypeptides were observed by immunoblotting cell extracts from a cell line, scaber, which secretes immunoreactive pthlp into its medium and also from tumors in nude mice derived from this cell line. chaotropic agents did not alter the immunoblotting pattern, and antibodies to three different epitopes of pthlp recognized these bands, indicating pthlp expression in the extracts. immunohistochemical staining of normal human tissue with these antibodies revealed several pthlp-containing tissues and confirmed the results of the immunoassay, suggesting a paracrine role for pthlp. staining was observed in several neoplastic tissues including squamous cell carcinomas, lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma, osteogenic sarcoma, and adenocarcinoma of the colon.
neuropsychological deficits in fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effects. a clinical sample of 19 school-aged native children diagnosed with fetal alcohol syndrome (fas) or fetal alcohol effects (fae) was compared with age- and sex-matched normal controls. results on a battery of intellectual and neuropsychological tests indicated large and significant differences between alcohol-affected children and controls. fas differed significantly from controls on measures of intellectual abilities, while fae did not; fas mean scores on these measures were significantly lower than fae means. for neuropsychological measures, fas were significantly poorer than controls on most measures, while fae showed deficits compared with controls only on grip strength. the results suggest that neuropsychological measures would be a valuable supplement to intellectual measures for the purpose of assessing alcohol effects because they are less vulnerable than intellectual measures to the influence of cultural and educational experiences.
fractured and retained guide-wire fragment during coronary angioplasty--unforeseen late sequelae. during a difficult coronary angioplasty, the tip of the guide wire became inadvertently wedged in a distal vessel, fractured, and retained in situ. because of the otherwise successful nature of the angioplasty and the patient's great risk for cardiac surgery, it was elected to leave the wire fragment in place. recurrence of symptoms led to recatheterization, which in addition to restenosis of the original angioplasty site showed diffuse narrowing of the arterial segment that contained the retained wire fragment. this occurred despite systemic anticoagulation with coumadin in the interval between procedures. thus retained guide wire fragments in patent coronary arteries may cause arterial narrowing despite systemic anticoagulation.
ossified chronic subdural hematoma: case report. a case of ossified chronic subdural hematoma is presented in a 13-year-old male in whom the mass was surgically removed. his neurological deficits continued afterward but were less severe.
treatment of port-wine stains during childhood with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser. seventy-three patients between the ages of 3 months to 14 years (average age 6 years 2 months) with port-wine stains were treated with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser. more than 75% lightening was achieved with an average of 2.5 treatments in 33 patients (45%), 50% to 74% lightening after an average of 1.7 treatments in 31 (42%), 26% to 49% lightening after 2 treatments in 5 (7%), and less than 25% lightening after 1 treatment in 4 (5%). the overall average lightening after one treatment was 53%. the percentage of lightening increased as the number of treatments increased. three patients had 100% clearance of the port-wine stain. patients aged between 3 months and 6 years (44 patients) had a better response after the first treatment (55% lightening) than did patients aged between 7 and 14 years (29 patients with a 48% lightening; p = 0.027). complications included cutaneous depressions in four patients, hyperpigmentation in 16 patients, and hypopigmentation in three patients. all complications were transient and disappeared completely.
a randomized double-blind crossover comparison of four rate-responsive pacing modes. the aim of this study was to compare, both subjectively and objectively, four modern rate-responsive pacing modes in a double-blind crossover design. twenty-two patients, aged 18 to 81 years, had an activity-sensing dual chamber universal rate-responsive (dddr) pacemaker implanted for treatment of high grade atrioventricular block and chronotropic incompetence. they were randomly programmed to vvir (ventricular demand rate-responsive), ddir (dual chamber demand rate-responsive), ddd (dual chamber universal) or dddr (dual chamber universal rate-responsive) mode and assessed after 4 weeks of out-of-hospital activity. five patients, all with vvir pacing, requested early reprogramming. the dddr mode was preferred by 59% of patients; the vvir mode was the least acceptable mode in 73%. perceived "general well-being," exercise capacity, functional status and symptoms were significantly worse in the vvir than in dual rate-responsive modes. exercise treadmill time was longer in dddr mode (p less than 0.01), but similar in all other modes. during standardized daily activities, heart rate in vvir and ddir modes underresponded to mental stress. all rate-augmented modes overresponded to staircase descent, whereas the ddd mode significantly underresponded to staircase ascent. echocardiography revealed no difference in chamber dimensions, left ventricular fractional shortening or pulmonary artery pressure in any mode. cardiac output was greater at rest in the dual modes than in the vvir mode (p = 0.006) but was similar at 120 beats/min. beat to beat variability of cardiac output was greatest in vvir mode (p less than 0.0001), with ddir showing greater variability than ddd or dddr modes (p less than 0.05). mitral regurgitation estimated by doppler color flow imaging was similar in all modes, but tricuspid regurgitation was significantly greater in vvir than in dual modes (p less than 0.03). subjects who preferred the dddr mode and those who found the vvir mode least acceptable had significantly greater increases in stroke volume when paced in the ddd mode than in the ventricular-inhibited (vvi) mode at rest (22%) when compared with subjects who preferred other modes (2%, p = 0.03). no other objective variable was predictive of subjective benefit from any rate-responsive pacing mode. thus, dual sensor rate-responsive pacing (dddr) is superior objectively and subjectively to single sensor (vvir, ddir and ddd) pacing and subjective benefit from dual chamber rate-augmented pacing is predictable echocardiographically.
congenital heart defects in malformation syndromes. this article presents a comprehensive review of the type and frequency of congenital heart defects found in malformation syndromes which have been categorized by etiology. certain cardiac phenotypes can be as helpful in identifying certain syndromes as can be seen with the more familiar facial, body, and behavioral phenotypes. an awareness of syndromes with a higher risk of congenital heart defect, and knowledge concerning heart defects which are distinctive for certain syndromes, focuses prenatal diagnosis efforts and fetal echocardiography. by using a mechanistic classification in which congenital heart defects are regarded as families of related defects rather than individual lesions, patterns can be recognized among different syndromes.
a combined electromyographic and cineradiologic investigation in patients with defecation disorders. records from 20 patients on whom defecography and electromyography were performed simultaneously because of defecation disorders were analyzed. according to the electromyographic investigation, the patients could be divided into three main groups: 1) normal sphincter reaction; 2) paradoxical sphincter reaction; and 3) combined reaction. group a was characterized by a marked reduction of muscular activity during emptying and a pronounced closing reflex after emptying. this was followed by return of normal tonic activity. patients in group b had no relaxation of the sphincters during emptying but a pronounced increased activity in the external sphincter and the puborectalis muscle. they also had severe emptying difficulties at defecography. no closing reflex was seen. in group c the electrical activity in the sphincters increased during moderate straining and when emptying was complete a clear closing reflex was seen. in this study, a dynamic visualization of the defecation together with a registration of electromyographic activity in the striated anal sphincters was performed. it was shown that patients with paradoxical sphincter reaction were lacking a closing reflex after emptying was complete. this has not been reported previously and is important evidence for the paradoxical defecation pattern. it was also shown that the patients with rectoceles had paradoxical sphincter reaction.
serum pepsinogen i and gastrin concentrations in children positive for helicobacter pylori. serum pepsinogen i, serum gastrin concentration, and inflammatory scores were measured in a population of 71 children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for investigation of upper abdominal pain. forty four were initially colonised with helicobacter pylori. the indices were measured before treatment (in 71 children), one month (in 41 children), and six months (in 21 children) after stopping treatment. before treatment there was a significant correlation between serum pepsinogen concentration, total inflammatory score, and h pylori state, but no correlation between serum gastrin concentrations and h pylori state. similarly, the total inflammatory score and serum pepsinogen concentrations were significantly correlated. there was no such correlation in children negative for h pylori. after treatment the inflammatory score improved in those patients in whom h pylori had been eradicated. there was also a significant fall in serum pepsinogen i and serum gastrin concentration in those patients in whom h pylori had been eradicated. these results were similar to those found six months after treatment had been stopped. these findings suggest that the serum pepsinogen i concentration could be considered a useful marker for gastritis and can be used as an index of severity of gastritis in h pylori positive subjects. the measurement of serum gastrin concentrations does not give useful information.
genetics of asthma and hay fever in australian twins. the occurrence of self-reported asthma/wheezing and hay fever among 3,808 pairs of twins from the australian national health and medical research council twin registry was examined for evidence of genetic transmission by path analytic methods. the cumulative prevalence of asthma or wheezing was 13.2% and of hay fever, 32%. there were significant correlations in liability to reported disease among twins, and these were higher in monozygotic twins (mz) (r = 0.65) than in dizygotic twins (dz) (r = 0.25), and in male mz twins (r = 0.75) compared with female mz twins (r = 0.60). analysis under the assumptions of the classic twin model suggested that there were genetic factors common to asthma and hay fever, with a correlation in genetic liability to the traits of 0.52 for men and 0.65 for women. these genes acted substantially in a nonadditive fashion in men but not in women. as the genetic correlation was significantly less than unity, this implied additional genetic factors influencing either or both diseases individually. the estimated heritability of these diseases was 60 to 70% in this population. environmental causes of both diseases also were correlated (r = 0.53 for men and 0.33 for women). cigarette smoking was only weakly associated with wheezing.
increased survival of patients with massive lymphadenopathy and prostate cancer: evidence of heterogeneous tumour behaviour. the survival of patients with prostate cancer and radiologically detectable lymph node enlargement has been studied prospectively over an 8-year period. computed tomography in 108 patients presenting with symptoms, signs or biochemical results suggesting lymphatic spread revealed pelvic or abdominal node masses in 60 patients; in 29 (48%), the masses measured more than 4 cm and the maximum node diameter was 15 cm. two-thirds of patients had advanced (t3/t4) tumour stage. following treatment, actuarial survival in all 60 patients with nodal enlargement was 40% at 5 years. within this group, survival in 22 patients with lymphadenopathy but negative bone scans at diagnosis was significantly better than that of 38 patients with both node and bone disease (70% vs 20% at 5 years). this improvement was related both to an apparent inability of certain tumours initially to progress and seed within bone and to a marked sensitivity of the node masses to subsequent hormonal manipulation. primary tumour grade was proportionally similar in both groups. unexpectedly, 6 of the 38 patients with combined disease obtained a complete remission after treatment. the reason for this heterogeneous biological behaviour remains unclear; but these observations underscore the importance of vigorous treatment in all patients with advanced lymph node disease.
deleterious effects of testicular venous occlusion in young rats. to determine the differences between testicular arterial and venous obstruction, the spermatic artery or vein, or both, were occluded for varying periods of time in young rats. two months later, at the conclusion of the study, the testes were examined. histologic degeneration after vascular obstruction was graded by a modified johnsen's tubular biopsy score (tbs). the testicular concentrations of enzymes (lactic dehydrogenase and sorbitol dehydrogenase), known to decrease with testicular injury, were measured. tbs and seminiferous tubule diameter (std) were found to decrease significantly after two hours of vascular occlusion and were similar regardless of whether the obstruction was produced by occlusion of arterial inflow or venous drainage, or both. testicular concentration of enzymes decreased significantly after permanent ligation of the spermatic artery and vein, but decreased minimally when the vascular obstruction lasted less than 120 minutes. testicular injury produced by venous occlusion was equally severe and occurred as rapidly as injury produced by arterial or combined arteriovenous occlusion. no significant injury was noted in the contralateral testes in any group.
n-[18f]fluoroacetyl-d-glucosamine: a potential agent for cancer diagnosis positron labeled substrates such as sugars, amino acids, and nucleosides have been investigated for the in-vivo evaluation of biochemical processes in cancerous tissue. hexosamines are obligatory structural components of many biologically important macromolecules, including membrane glycoproteins and mucopolysaccharide. we evaluated a new synthesized pharmaceutical, n-[18f]fluoroacetyl-d-glucosamine (18f-fag), which is a structural analog of n-acetyl-d-glucosamine. c3h/hemsnrs mice bearing spontaneous hepatomas were used for the tissue distribution study. at 60 min after injection, high uptakes were found in tumor (5.16, mean value of %dose/g), liver (3.71), and kidney (3.27). the tumor uptake of 18f-fag showed the highest value in all tissue. in the pet study, vx-2 carcinoma of the rabbit was clearly visualized. our preliminary results suggest that 18f-fag has potential as a new agent for tumor imaging.
laryngeal oedema from a neck haematoma. a complication of internal jugular vein cannulation. laryngeal oedema occurred after formation of a neck haematoma after attempted internal jugular vein cannulation. this resulted in complete respiratory obstruction and respiratory arrest and it was impossible to ventilate her lungs manually or intubate her trachea. oxygenation of the patient was only possible using transtracheal ventilation.
whole-body lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in cachectic patients with esophageal cancer. whole-body lipolytic rates and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling (reesterification of fatty acids released during lipolysis) were measured with stable isotopic tracers in the basal state and during beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol infusion in five cachectic patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, five cachectic cancer-free, nutritionally-matched control patients, and 10 healthy volunteers. resting energy expenditure and plasma catecholamines were normal in all three groups. the basal rate of glycerol appearance in blood in the patients with cancer (2.96 +/- 0.45 mumol.kg-1.min-1) was similar to that in the nutritionally matched controls (3.07 +/- 0.28 mumol.kg-1.min-1), but 48% greater than in the normal-weight volunteers (2.00 +/- 0.16 mumol.kg-1.min-1) (p = 0.028). the antilipolytic effect of propranolol and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in the patients with cancer were also similar in the cachectic control group and approximately 50% greater than in the normal-weight volunteers, but the differences were not statistically significant because of the variability in the data. we conclude that the increase in lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in "unstressed" cachectic patients with esophageal cancer is due to alterations in their nutritional status rather than the presence of tumor itself. increased beta-adrenergic activity may be an important contributor to the stimulation of lipolysis.
unusual lymphoproliferative oropharyngeal lesions in heart and heart-lung transplant recipients. three unusual cases of oropharyngeal lympho-proliferative lesions were seen in recipients of heart and heart-lung transplants. two caused acute upper respiratory obstruction necessitating urgent ent intervention. all patients were receiving immunosuppressive drugs including cyclosporin. the two obstructive cases were adenotonsillar enlargement in a 6-year-old, and a tumour of the tonsil and tongue base with cervical lymph node enlargement in a 32-year-old male. both were caused by epstein-barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorder. the third patient, a 32-year-old female, had a presumed low grade t-cell lymphoma that regressed spontaneously. histopathological diagnosis of these lympho-proliferative disorders after transplantation usually requires immunocytochemistry to distinguish polyclonal proliferative disorders from true lymphoma. polyclonal lymphoproliferative disorders after transplantation do not usually require aggressive cytoreductive therapy, but respond to simple measures such as the reduction of immunosuppression.
a case-control study of the effectiveness of bicycle safety helmets in preventing facial injury. in a case-control study we sought to assess the potential effectiveness of helmets in preventing facial injuries. our study included 212 bicyclists with facial injuries and 319 controls with injuries to other body areas, who were treated in emergency rooms of five seattle area hospitals over a one-year period. using regression analyses to control for age, sex, education and income, accident severity, and cycling experience we found no definite effect of helmets on the risk of serious facial injury (odds ratio 0.81; 95 percent confidence interval = 0.45, 1.5), but protection against serious injuries to the upper face (odds ratio 0.27; 95% ci = 0.1, 0.8). no protection was found against serious injuries to the lower face. the independent effect of helmet use on facial injury was difficult to isolate due to the association of head and facial injuries. our results suggest that bicycle helmets as presently designed may have some protective effect against serious upper facial injuries.
national general practice study of epilepsy: newly diagnosed epileptic seizures in a general population. the national general practice study of epilepsy is a prospective population-based cohort study of 1195 patients with newly diagnosed or suspected epileptic seizures. at the time of initial classification (6 months after notification), 104 patients were excluded. of the remaining 1091 patients, 220 (20% [95% confidence interval 18-23%]) had febrile seizures, 564 (52% [49-55%]) definite epileptic seizures, and 228 (21% [19-23%]) possible epilepsy. in the definite epilepsy group the proportions of males and females were similar, 25% (21-28%) were younger than 15 years and 24% (21-28%) were 60 years or older. the definite seizures were classified as cryptogenic in 62% (58-66%), remote symptomatic in 21% (18-25%), and acute symptomatic in 15% (12-18%). the aetiology of epilepsy was vascular disease in 15% (12-18%) and tumour in 6% (4-8%). among older subjects the proportion with an identifiable cause was much higher: 49% (41-58%) were due to vascular disease and 11% (6-16%) to tumour. only 252 (45% [41-49%]) of the 564 patients with definite epileptic seizures were registered at the time of their first seizure. 52% (48-56%) of the patients had partial or secondarily generalised seizures, and only 39% (35-43%) seizures generalised from the outset.
recent advances in etoposide therapy for non-small cell lung cancer. non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) continues to be a major health problem in the us. in 1990, approximately 120,000 new cases will be diagnosed, and the majority of these patients will have either unresectable disease or resected disease that has a relatively low chance of being cured. a variety of chemotherapy treatments have been evaluated in patients with advanced nsclc. the objective of this review is to summarize the results of the chemotherapy trials in stage iii and iv nsclc patients.
temporal movement control in patients with parkinson's disease. patients with parkinson's disease (pd) have been reported to be unable to modify their movement velocity to adapt to changing environmental demands. for example, when movement amplitude is varied, pd patients usually exhibit a nearly constant peak velocity, whereas elderly subjects show an increase of their peak velocity with increased amplitude. the experiment examined the ability of pd patients to vary the duration of their movement (four different percentages of their maximum) under conditions where temporal, but not spatial, control was emphasised. pd patients had longer movement times than control subjects, but were able to vary the duration of their movement with comparable temporal accuracy to that of elderly subjects. for both groups, the agonist emg activity increased with decreased movement duration. for the pd patients, the number of agonist bursts increased with increased movement duration.
the antihypertensive mechanism of delapril, a newly developed converting enzyme inhibitor, is related to the suppression of vascular angiotensin ii release in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. accumulating evidence suggests an important role of vascular renin-angiotensin system (ras) in the local control of arterial tone. to further gain insight into the significance of vascular ras in hypertension, we investigated the relationship between the antihypertensive action of delapril, a newly developed converting enzyme inhibitor (cei), and its effects on vascular angiotensin ii (ang ii) release in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). male shrs were given delapril or its active metabolite (5-hydroxydelapril diacid; 5-hydroxy-dpd) orally (10 mg/kg/day) for 2 weeks. isolated hind legs of these rats were perfused with angiotensinogen-free krebs-ringer solution, and ang ii released into the perfusate was directly determined by extraction with sep-pak c18 cartridges connected to the perfusion system. both delapril and 5-hydroxy-dpd produced a sustained antihypertensive action. the spontaneous release of ang ii from isolated perfused hind legs of control shrs was about 50 to 110 pg during the first 30 min of perfusion, and it remained stable up to 3 h. another active metabolite, delapril diacid (dpd), when added to the perfusion medium (10(-9) to 5 x 10(-5) mol/l), suppressed the ang ii release in a dose-dependent manner. the maximal percent inhibition of ang ii released evoked by dpd (5 x 10(-6) mol/l) was approximately 51%. oral pretreatment of either delapril or 5-hydroxy-dpd for 2 weeks suppressed the ang ii release by 61% and 73% for delapril and 5-hydroxy-dpd, respectively. these results suggest the presence of a functional ras in vascular tissues, and that delapril exerts its antihypertensive effect through inhibition of vascular ang ii release in shrs.
a comparison of parallel versus perpendicular placement of retention sutures in abdominal wound closure. a new technique for placement of retention sutures is described. twenty-five rats underwent midline laparotomy incision. the control group was closed with traditional placement of through-and-through retention sutures placed in a perpendicular direction to the wound. the experimental group was closed with retention sutures placed in a parallel direction to the wound as described below. wound bursting strength was significantly (p less than 0.001) greater at one to five days in the experimental group compared with the control animals. in addition, inflammatory reaction and pressure necrosis were greater in the control group. it appears that parallel placement of sutures has less of a tendency to cut through tissue when subjected to the distracting forces on a midline wound.
cytologic identification of clinically occult proliferative breast disease in women with a family history of breast cancer. a cytologic method for sampling the normal breast by fine-needle aspiration (fna) was used to determine the frequency of clinically inapparent proliferative breast disease (pbd) in women with family histories of breast cancer. the authors attempted to obtain specimens from each quadrant of both breasts in 51 female first-degree relatives of breast cancer patients. the study group had no detectable masses by physical examination or mammography. samples were prepared on membrane filters, papanicolaou stained, and evaluated cytomorphologically. three hundred seventy-eight of 408 (92.6%) possible quadrants were sampled; cellular material was obtained from 290 (76.7%) quadrants. pbd was identified in 20 of the 51 women (39.2%). when epithelium was obtained, nuclear area, perimeter, and diameter were measured with the use of computerized image analysis. nuclei in samples containing atypical hyperplasia showed significant differences in these parameters when compared with cells from samples containing normal epithelium or benign hyperplasia. the authors' findings indicate that fna sampling and computerized image analysis are useful in the detection and characterization of clinically inapparent pbd.
molecular characterization of erythrocyte glycophorin c variants. human erythrocyte glycophorin c plays a functionally important role in maintaining erythrocyte shape and regulating membrane mechanical stability. immunochemical and serologic studies have identified a number of glycophorin c variants that include the yus, gerbich, and webb phenotypes. we report here the molecular characterization of these variants. amplification of glycophorin c mrna from the yus phenotype, using two oligonucleotide primers that span the coding domain, generated a 338-bp fragment compared with a 395-bp fragment generated by amplification of normal glycophorin c mrna. sequencing of the mutant 338-bp fragment identified a 57-bp deletion that corresponds to exon 2 of the glycophorin c gene. similar analysis showed deletion of 84-bp exon 3 in the gerbich phenotype. in contrast to the generation of shorter than normal dna fragments from mrna amplification in the yus and gerbich phenotypes, amplification of mrna from the webb phenotype generated a normal-sized fragment. sequencing of this dna fragment showed an a----g substitution at nucleotide 23 of the coding sequence, resulting in the substitution of asparagine by serine. this modification accounts for the altered glycosylation of glycophorin c seen in this phenotype. these results have enabled us to characterize glycophorin c variants in three different phenotypes that involve deletions of exons 2 and 3 of the glycophorin c gene, as well as a point mutation in exon 1 that results in altered glycosylation of this protein.
human immunodeficiency virus-associated hodgkin's disease. clinicopathologic studies of 24 cases and preponderance of mixed cellularity type characterized by the occurrence of fibrohistiocytoid stromal cells. hodgkin's disease (hd) was diagnosed in 24 patients who were either seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) (21) or members of a high-risk group (three), but had not developed acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids). clinical presentation of the disease was characterized by constitutional symptoms in all, especially fever (23/24) and disseminated disease (22/24) at diagnosis. mediastinal adenopathy was rare. bone marrow involvement was particularly frequent (12/24), and a positive bone marrow biopsy preceded lymph node biopsy in 5 of the 12. histopathologic features of these tumors included an increased number of nonlymphoid stromal cells, i.e., histiocytic and/or fibroblastoid. in some tumors these fibrohistiocytoid stromal cells were arranged in bundles, but distinct nodule with birefringent collagen band formation was not observed. twenty-two patients were treated, most with combination chemotherapy; one was untreated; one, unknown. sixteen, including the one untreated, died with disease at 3 to 25 months; one died of an unrelated cause; four were alive at 3 to 24 months; three were lost to follow-up. frequent bone marrow involvement at presentation suggests the usefulness of the bone marrow biopsy for diagnosis in subjects at risk, especially when they present with spiking fever of unknown origin. contrary to most previous series, virtually all of our cases were of mixed cellularity type, characterized by increased fibrohistiocytoid stromal cells in place of depleting lymphocytes. the classic nodular sclerosing feature with birefringent collagen band formation was not observed. in conclusion, hiv-associated hd was characterized by advanced stage with fever at presentation, preponderance of mixed cellularity histologic type with increased fibrohistiocytoid stromal cells, and poor outcome. hodgkin's disease in aids patients presents an intriguing biological model to study the role of stromal histiocytes in immunodeficient patients.
intraoperative scintigraphy for active small intestinal bleeding. localizing active sites of bleeding within the small intestine remains a difficult task. endoscopic, angiographic or scintigraphic studies may point to the small intestine as the site of blood loss, but at operation, without a palpable lesion, the exact site of bleeding remains elusive. patients are managed at laparotomy with intraoperative endoscopy, angiography, multiple enterotomies, "blind" resections, or placement of an enterostomy. we describe two patients in whom intraoperative scintigraphy accurately identified active sites of bleeding in the small intestine when other modalities failed. intraoperative scintigraphy is rapid, easy to perform and is an effective means of identifying active sites of bleeding within the small intestine.
t-lymphocytic leukemia expresses complex, branched o-linked oligosaccharides on a major sialoglycoprotein, leukosialin. leukocytes express a major sialoglycoprotein, leukosialin, of which the apparent molecular weight (mol wt) can be variable according to the differences in o-glycans attached to this molecule. in the present study, we analyzed the structures of o-glycans attached to leukosialin present in various t-lymphocytic leukemia cells. t-lymphoid cells from patients with acute t-lymphocytic leukemia express a large amount of the branched hexasaccharides, neunac alpha 2----3gal beta 1----3(neunac alpha 2----3gal beta 1----4glcnac beta 1----6)galnac, which are also expressed in activated normal t lymphocytes, but that are almost absent in resting normal t lymphocytes. t-lymphoid cells from patients with chronic t-lymphocytic leukemia, on the other hand, mainly express the tetrasaccharides neunac alpha 2----3gal beta 1----3(neunac alpha 2----6)galnac on leukosialin, but they also express a small significant amount of the hexasaccharides. the same hexasaccharides can be detected in thymocytes. the increased amount of the hexasaccharides in acute leukemia is associated with increased activity of beta 1----6 glcnac-transferase, a key enzyme in forming the hexasaccharides. immunoblot analysis of cell lysates showed that monoclonal antibody (moab) t-305 reacts preferentially with leukosialin of high mol wt containing the hexasaccharides. these findings indicate that t-lymphocytic leukemia cells reexpress the oligosaccharides present in immature cells.
magnetic resonance imaging of fourth ventricular epidermoid tumors. two pathologically proved cases of epidermoid tumor of the fourth ventricle are presented; clinical history and computed tomographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and histopathologic findings are included.
dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery with pulmonary hypertension. pulmonary artery dissection was observed in a 64-yr-old female patient with severe pulmonary hypertension, which was probably primary (pulmonary vascular resistance, 817 dyn.s.cm-5; normal range less than or equal to 200 dyn.s.cm-5). the patient was admitted to the hospital because of severe dyspnea on exertion. echocardiography demonstrated a dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery. right heart catheterization revealed severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure, 64 mm hg; normal range, 10 to 22 mm hg); dissection of the pulmonary artery was confirmed by pulmonary arteriography. one-year follow-up was uneventful. in the literature, 28 patients with dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery are reviewed. the dissection has only been diagnosed in life in one patient (by echocardiography).
pineal hyperactivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats: muscarinic regulation of indole metabolism. 1. choline acetyltransferase activity and [3h]quinuclidinyl benzylate-binding sites were detected in the pineal gland of normotensive wistar-kyoto rats and of spontaneously hypertensive rats. 2. in vitro, muscarinic activation by pilocarpine increased the pineal metabolic production of hydroxyindole derivatives up to 5-hydroxytryptamine and produced a less marked stimulation of melatonin biosynthesis. 3. electrical field stimulation of pineal gland slices caused similar metabolic effects. 4. muscarinic blockade with atropine inhibited the effects on hydroxyindole metabolism. 5. [3h]quinuclidinyl benzylate-binding sites, indicative of muscarinic receptors, were more numerous, and basal 5-hydroxytryptamine and melatonin levels were higher, in the pineal gland of spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with wistar-kyoto rats. 6. the atropine-sensitive metabolic effects of pilocarpine and electrical field stimulation on the pineal gland were increased in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with wistar-kyoto rats.
isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening for short bowel syndrome. because of improvements in supportive care, many infants now survive massive intestinal loss and have short bowel syndrome. unfortunately, some survivors are left with an insufficient amount of intestine and cannot be weaned from total parenteral nutrition. an isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure was used to treat surgically two such infants with 25 centimeters of remaining small intestine and absent ileocecal valves. this surgical technique longitudinally divides the short, dilated small intestine into two smaller, parallel lumens that are anastomosed end to end. this procedure preserves all mucosa, prolongs transit time by doubling intestinal length and corrects the ineffective peristalsis by tapering the dilated intestine. the lengthening technique can be performed because of the anatomic division of the intestinal vasculature within two leaves of the mesentery. longitudinal division between the two leaves maintains vasculature to each side of the intestine. the isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure, as it was successfully applied to two infants, is described in detail.
crico-tracheal disruption and common carotid artery occlusion: a case of blunt trauma. a case of blunt trauma to the neck is presented. while driving an all terrain vehicle (atv), a 20-yr-old male was struck across the anterior neck by a cord suspended between two poles. initial findings were suggestive of an isolated laryngeal injury; 48 hours later, however, a dense left hemiplegia became manifest. a ct scan demonstrated a large right frontoparietal cerebral infarct, and an angiogram confirmed occlusion of the right common carotid artery. intractable cerebral oedema developed, and the patient died five days after the initial insult. such injuries should alert the clinician to the possibility of major vascular injury, and if suspected, angiography is warranted.
sudden death due to right ventricular cardiomyopathy. a 21-year-old man died suddenly at a small party. he had had no clinical signs of cardiac disease except for a slightly abnormal electrocardiogram (occasional premature ventricular contractions) since he was 15 years of age. autopsy examination revealed cardiomegaly (469 g), with right atrial and ventricular dilatation. the right ventricular myocardium was massively replaced with adipose tissue, and there was one isolated fatty lesion in the right side of the ventricular septum. there were no congenital malformations such as a septal defect or valvular deformity. histologically, muscular fibers remaining in the right ventricular wall showed neither degenerative nor inflammatory changes. an isolated lesion of the ventricular septum consisted of almost complete replacement of the muscle bundles with adipose tissue. such a pathologic condition has recently been termed right ventricular cardiomyopathy. postmortem examination is necessary to make a definite diagnosis of the disease, because in most adult cases of the disease, sudden death occurs before there have been any critical signs.
effects of metoprolol on rest and exercise cardiac function and plasma catecholamines in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to ischemic or idiopathic cardiomyopathy. to define the effects of 2 months of metoprolol therapy on cardiac function, aerobic performance and sympathetic nervous system activity, metoprolol (75 to 100 mg/day) was administered to 10 patients with chronic congestive heart failure (chf). metoprolol was discontinued in 2 patients because of worsening chf. in the remaining 8 patients, peak oxygen uptake increased significantly (14.8 +/- 3.0 to 16.1 +/- 2.5 ml/kg/min, p less than 0.05) as did the oxygen pulse (9.0 +/- 2.2 to 12.6 +/- 1.8 ml/beat, p less than 0.02). resting heart rate (87 +/- 18 to 62 +/- 9 beats/min, p less than 0.05) and peak exercise heart rate (133 +/- 13 to 105 +/- 30 beats/min, p less than 0.02) were both reduced. mean resting ejection fraction increased from 0.15 +/- 0.06 to 0.25 +/- 0.11 and peak exercise ejection fraction also tended to increase (0.19 +/- 0.11 to 0.28 +/- 0.15, difference not significant). both resting plasma norepinephrine (613 +/- 706 to 303 +/- 142 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) and epinephrine (71 +/- 50 to 40 +/- 21 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) were reduced. circulating lymphocyte beta-adrenergic receptor number was unchanged (1,334 +/- 292 to 1,344 +/- 456 receptors/cell, difference not significant). it is concluded that metoprolol therapy is associated with improvements in rest and exercise ventricular performance and maximal aerobic capacity. these improvements are associated with a decline in resting sympathetic nervous system activity.
abdominal aortic aneurysm with perianeurysmal fibrosis: experience from 11 swedish vascular centers. case records of 2026 patients operated on because of abdominal aortic aneurysms from 11 swedish vascular centers were reviewed and revealed 98 cases (4.8%) of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. also included in this case-control study was an analysis of a randomized group of 82 patients from the same centers who had noninflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms. four inflammatory aneurysms were ruptured, compared with 16 in the noninflammatory group (p less than 0.01). a higher proportion of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had symptoms that led to radiographic investigations. the median erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 39 mm versus 19 mm (26% of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had erythrocyte sedimentation rates greater than 50 mm; p less than 0.001), and the serum creatinine level was increased in 27 and 8 patients (p less than 0.01) in the inflammatory and noninflammatory groups, respectively. preoperative investigations revealed ureteral obstruction in 19 patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms, of whom 12 had preoperative nephrostomy or ureteral catheter placement. at operation, 20 additional patients exhibited fibrosis around one or both ureters. although ureterolysis was performed in 19 patients, preoperative and postoperative creatinine levels did not differ between these patients and the conservatively treated ones. duration of surgery (215 vs 218 minutes), intraoperative blood loss (2085 vs 2400 ml) and complications did not differ significantly between the groups. overall operative (30-day) mortality was equal (11% vs 12%) but was increased for patients undergoing elective surgery for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms (9% vs 0%; p = 0.03).
swallowing disorders in patients with prolonged orotracheal intubation or tracheostomy tubes. eleven patients were tested for swallowing dysfunction after prolonged orotracheal intubation. ten had a tracheostomy tube. mean duration of orotracheal intubation was 19.9 days, mean age 65 yr, and no patient had a concomitant neurologic deficit. all patients had a modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy. all patients had at least one defect of 11 defects characterized. there was a mean of six defects/patient. the most common defects were delayed triggering of the swallow response (present in all patients) and pharyngeal pooling of contrast material (n = 9). follow-up videofluoroscopy was performed in five patients (all had improved) with mean defects decreasing from 6.1 to 2.8/patient. with one exception, no patient had any defect that was worse than mild in severity. we concluded that prolonged orotracheal intubation with or without tracheostomy may cause prolonged and severe swallowing dysfunction. the deficits improve with time. the presence of a gag reflex does not confer protection against aspiration of pharyngeal contrast.
vascular and nonvascular expression of incam-110. a target for mononuclear leukocyte adhesion in normal and inflamed human tissues. inducible cell adhesion molecule 110 (incam-110), is a 110-kd adhesion receptor for lymphocytes and monocytes identified on cytokine-activated endothelium. using immunoperoxidase techniques, little or no incam-110 was detected on endothelium in normal human tissues. in contrast, incam-110 was expressed in postcapillary venules in a variety of active inflammatory processes. in acute appendicitis, incam-110 was found coincident with strong expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 (elam-1), a cytokine-inducible molecule that functions in neutrophil adhesion. however, in certain chronic inflammatory processes (eg, sarcoidosis), incam-110 was observed without simultaneous elam-1 expression. anti-incam-110 antibody e1/6 also marked several extravascular cell types, including lymphoid dendritic cells, some tissue macrophages, synovial lining cells, and reactive mesothelial cells. these data suggest a role for endothelial incam-110 in the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic inflammatory reactions. furthermore incam-110 may function as an adhesion molecule for mononuclear leukocytes in a variety of extravascular sites.
metabolic effects of cachectin/tumor necrosis factor are modified by site of production. cachectin/tumor necrosis factor-secreting tumor in skeletal muscle induces chronic cachexia, while implantation in brain induces predominantly acute anorexia. we have developed a murine model of wasting by injecting intracerebrally cells which continuously secrete h-cachectin/tnf (cho-tnf) to: (a) determine the effects of cachectin/tnf produced continuously in the central nervous system (cns), and (b) compare the metabolic effects of cachectin/tnf-secreting tumor in the brain to the cachexia caused by cho-tnf tumor in peripheral tissue (im). intracerebral cho-tnf tumors produced increased serum h-cachectin/tnf levels with lethal hypophagia and weight loss (mean survival time of 11 d); these changes were not observed in association with nonsecretory control brain tumors. the metabolic consequences of intracerebral cachectin/tnf production were indistinguishable from acute, lethal starvation: whole-body lipid content was decreased significantly but protein was conserved. although intramuscular cachectin/tnf-secreting tumors caused similar increases of serum h-cachectin/tnf levels, profound anorexia did not develop; wasting developed after a longer period of tumor burden (50 d) with classical signs of cachexia (i.e., anemia and depletion of both protein and lipid). these studies provide a reproducible animal model of site-specific cytokine production and suggest that, regardless of serum levels, cachectin/tnf produced locally in brain influences both the rate of development of wasting and its net metabolic effects.
management of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess. three cases of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess are reported. two patients were successfully managed by a combination of medical therapy and surgery. the third patient died suddenly 36 hours after admission to hospital.
immune response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to hbx-antigen of hepatitis b virus. the hepatitis b virus genome encodes a transcriptional transactivator protein designated hbxag. we have investigated whether this antigen is a target structure for human t-lymphocytes. using recombinant hbxag protein, we found hbxag-specific stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with acute hepatitis b virus infection (6 of 6) and chronic hepatitis b virus infection (6 of 17) but not in healthy individuals. with hbxag-specific synthetic polypeptides, several t-cell epitopes were identified. most were located in the carboxyterminal half of the hbxag protein. five t-cell clones specific for a t-cell epitope located at the carboxyterminal region of hbxag were established and found to belong to the cd2/cd4-positive, cd8-negative subtype. these data establish for the first time hbxag as an antigen in the cellular immune response.
preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality. intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient. transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common. the effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear. previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a t lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure b. fragilis abscess formation. in a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model, preexposure to live escherichia coli, b. fragilis, or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition. further, immunization with e. coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality. these data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live, transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction.
isolated muscular sarcoidosis causing fever of unknown origin: the value of gallium-67 imaging. an unusual case of a patient with a long-standing fever of unknown origin (fuo) is presented whose gallium-67 (67ga) images revealed increased activity only in the calf muscles bilaterally. other imaging modalities also failed to show chest or other abnormal findings. subsequent biopsy of the right gastrocnemius muscle revealed noncaseating granulomas consistent with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. when using 67ga to evaluate a patient with a fuo, imaging of the extremities should always be included. also, when abnormal ga-67 uptake is present in the extremities, sarcoidosis should be included in the differential diagnosis.
dexamethasone increases plasma levels of albendazole. therapy of neurocysticercosis with cysticidal drugs is frequently complicated by the exacerbation of symptoms that follows the inflammation triggered by the acute destruction of cysticerci. treatment of such adverse reactions with dexamethasone is highly effective. however, it has been shown that dexamethasone lowers the plasma levels of praziquantel, thus reducing its cysticidal efficacy. we measured plasma levels of albendazole, another strong cysticidal drug, when dexamethasone was given simultaneously. we found that dexamethasone increased the plasma levels of albendazole by about 50% (p less than 0.002); hence, it seems that cysticercosis and the ensuing inflammation can be treated simultaneously with albendazole and dexamethasone without diminishing the efficacy of the cysticidal drug.
arrhythmias in patients with chf. should they be treated? ventricular arrhythmias are a major cause of death in patients with congestive heart failure. dr ellenbogen and his associates discuss the current thinking, based on recent studies, concerning use of antiarrhythmic agents to prevent sudden cardiac death in these patients. as they point out, the proper antiarrhythmic therapy may be crucial to long-term survival.
nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system in the treatment of hypertension. results of a multicenter trial. the modern approach to the treatment of hypertension (math) study group. nifedipine, in the gastrointestinal therapeutic system (gits) formulation, a controlled-release formulation for once-a-day administration, was evaluated in the modern approach to the treatment of hypertension (math) trial. in this study conducted at 127 centers, 1155 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension representative of the spectrum seen in practice were included in the analyses of effectiveness. after a 2 week placebo period, nifedipine gits therapy was started at 30 mg/day and was titrated to a maximum dose of 180 mg/day over 6 weeks. response criteria were a sitting diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg and a decrease of greater than or equal to 10 mm hg. after titration, patients were observed for 12 weeks during treatment. at the final visit, nifedipine gits significantly (p less than .0001) reduced sitting systolic blood pressure 17 +/- 14 mm hg (mean +/- sd), and sitting diastolic blood pressure 14 +/- 8 mm hg. similar highly significant reductions in standing blood pressure were observed. for all subjects, 76% achieved goal blood pressure response during titration. more than 50% were controlled on doses of 30 to 60 mg/day. at the final visit blood pressure reductions in men and women were similar, except for a significantly greater decrease in sitting systolic pressure for women. a similar proportion of blacks responded compared with whites, and reductions in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure were also similar in the 2 groups. nifedipine gits had no effect on renal function, serum potassium, or total, hdl, or ldl cholesterol. uric acid was reduced by 0.5 mg/dl (p less than .001).
low-dose heparin. a cause of hematoma of rectus abdominis. although hematomas of the rectus abdominis muscle are commonly reported complications of systemic anticoagulation treatment, they are a rare complication of prophylactic administration of low-dose heparin. the occurrence of a massive hematoma of the rectus sheath is reported in a woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute respiratory failure who was receiving low doses of heparin for the prevention of deep venous thrombosis. three other cases of hematoma of the rectus sheath resulting from prophylactic use of heparin are reviewed. the development of hematoma in these patients may have resulted from intramuscular abdominal injection of heparin and from strain of the rectus abdominis muscle caused by coughing. when prophylactic administration of heparin is necessary in patients with a tendency to paroxysmal cough, subcutaneous injections of heparin in the thigh may be preferable to subcutaneous injections in the abdomen.
multiple arterial fenestrations, multiple aneurysms, and an arteriovenous malformation in a patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage. we report the case of a 49-year-old, right-handed man with multiple vascular pathologies, including a fenestrated anterior communicating artery and middle cerebral artery, an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery, multiple aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery, and an arteriovenous malformation. diagnoses were made through computed tomography, cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and intraoperative dissection. the lesions were managed surgically in stages with satisfactory results. congenital and hemodynamic factors may have combined to manifest in the anomalies present in this unique case. we believe that no similar combination of vascular pathology has been reported previously.
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain. congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies, effects of teratogens, errors of histogenesis, or sequelae of infections. the imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality. this review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants.
second-line platinum therapy in patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with cisplatin. in an effort to critically define the incidence and clinical characteristics of secondary responses to cisplatin-based therapy in patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with a cisplatin-based program, a retrospective review was undertaken of patients at the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center who received greater than or equal to two cisplatin/carboplatin-based programs. eighty-two patients were identified who met the entry criteria of having had a cisplatin-free interval (cfi) of more than 4 months between the completion of their first regimen and the institution of a second cisplatin/carboplatin program. of the 72 assessable patients (10 had no measurable disease, and a laparotomy was not performed to assess response), 31 (43%) responded, including 10 surgically defined complete responses (s-crs). the overall response rates (and s-cr rate), based on duration of cfi, were 5 to 12 months, 27% (5%); 13 to 24 months, 33% (11%); and more than 24 months, 59% (22%). twenty-nine patients (35%) received noncisplatin/carboplatin-containing treatments between the cisplatin programs. patients without any treatment for more than 24 months from the completion of their initial therapy experienced a 77% (17 of 22) response rate and a 32% (seven of 22) s-cr rate. in conclusion, secondary responses to cisplatin/carboplatin-based treatment are common in patients with ovarian cancer who have previously responded to the agents and increase in frequency with greater distance from the initial therapy.
catabolic effects of high-dose corticosteroids persist despite therapeutic benefit in rheumatoid arthritis. although corticosteroids (cs) cause nitrogen wasting in healthy humans, it is not known whether the salutary antiinflammatory and appetite-stimulating effects of cs in inflammatory diseases mitigate this effect. we measured nitrogen balance before, during, and after 3 d of high-dose methylprednisolone therapy in nine patients with flare-ups of rheumatoid arthritis. there was evidence of preexisting somatic protein and fat depletion in seven of nine subjects. patients were allowed to eat freely on a metabolic ward. nitrogen balances were -0.89 +/- 1.38 g/d (means +/- sem) before cs therapy, -5.77 +/- 1.30 g/d during therapy (p less than 0.001), and -3.54 +/- 1.38 g/d after therapy (p less than 0.01) despite increased energy and nitrogen intake and clinical resolution of inflammation during and after the pulse therapy. we conclude that patients with rheumatoid arthritis are often cachectic and high-dose cs cause nitrogen wasting in these patients despite an antiinflammatory and appetite-stimulatory benefit.
headaches in dementia. we investigated 288 elderly subjects with various degree of dementia, focusing on headaches. seventy-three of 288 elderly subjects (25.3%) complained of some headaches. the most common type was the tension-type headache, from which 43 of the 73 subjects with headaches (58.9%) suffered. the degree of cognitive disturbances, evaluated by hasegawa's intelligence scale, significantly correlated to the prevalence of headaches, and indicated that patients with dementia appeared to have less headaches. the methodological issues and views on headache research in dementia were assessed, and it is concluded that the field is a difficult one, with potential for error.
swimmer's migraine. three cases of sudden, severe headache occurring during swimming are described. a 51-year-old female had been engaging in a swimming exercise for about 20 minutes when she suddenly experienced a pulsating headache in the parietotemporal region, accompanied by nausea. a few days later, she experienced a similar episode, again during swimming practice. a 45-year-old male developed a pulsating headache with nausea immediately after diving into a swimming pool, and had a similar attack during diving practice 1 week later. a 32-year-old male developed a pulsating headache accompanied by nausea while swimming in the sea. in all three cases, blood pressure, pulse rate, neurological findings, cervical spinal x-rays, brain ct scans, and hematological findings were normal and the outcome was good. although these patients' headaches were diagnosed as benign exertional headache, pathophysiologically they appeared to resemble the headache associated with sexual activity.
does somatostatin analogue prevent experimental acute pancreatitis? because somatostatin is a potent inhibitor of pancreatic secretion, we hypothesized that pretreatment with somatostatin analogue octreotide (sms 201-995) might prevent cerulein-induced edematous pancreatitis. we studied 18 rats prepared with jugular vein catheters. the following agents were administered intravenously to groups of four rats for 6 hours: 1 ml/h (control) crystalloid solution; 1-microgram/kg bolus then 1 microgram/kg per hour of octreotide; and 5 micrograms/kg per hour of cerulein; also, in a fourth group of six rats, octreotide and cerulein were administered simultaneously. at the end of experiments, blood was drawn for plasma amylase determinations; rats were killed and pancreata were examined. supramaximal cerulein administration to conscious rats induced hyperamylasemia and edematous pancreatitis, confirming previous observations; in both groups of rats receiving cerulein, there was prominent interstitial edema, acinar vacuolization, and mild-to-moderate acute inflammation. while octreotide pretreatment of rats with cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis was associated with a lesser increase of wet pancreas weight and plasma amylase concentration, there was little overall benefit of octreotide pretreatment in this form of experimental acute pancreatitis.
angiocentric immunoproliferative lesion/t-cell non-hodgkin's lymphoma and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome: a case report and review of the literature. the lesions known as lymphocytic vasculitis, polymorphic reticulosis (midline malignant reticulosis, lethal midline granuloma), lymphomatoid granulomatosis, and angiocentric lymphoma form what have been collectively termed the angiocentric immunoproliferative lesions (ail). because of recent reports demonstrating clonal rearrangements of the t-cell receptor in these lesions, the ail are now thought to represent a continuous spectrum of post-thymic t-cell non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl). nhl associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) represents intermediate or high-grade b-cell malignancies in hiv-infected patients that may be etiologically related to the epstein-barr virus (ebv). there have been reports of ebv-associated t-cell nhl, ail, and large granular lymphocyte (lgl) proliferations, as well as hiv-associated t-cell neoplasia, lgl/t-cell proliferations, and ail. we describe a case of polymorphic reticulosis (lethal midline granuloma) arising in an hiv-infected individual, who later progressed to aids, and review the literature on hiv-associated and ebv-associated t-cell neoplasia, lgl/t-cell proliferations, and ail. the etiology of this ail/t-cell nhl, especially in relation to ebv and hiv, is discussed.
acute tumor lysis syndrome after intrathecal methotrexate administration. a 44-year-old man had acute tumor lysis syndrome after a single dose of intrathecal methotrexate was administered for lymphomatous meningitis (high-grade, small noncleaved b-cell) in the setting of untreated systemic disease. the metabolic derangements reversed completely with conservative therapy and did not recur with subsequent treatment. intrathecal methotrexate administration results in potentially toxic systemic methotrexate levels which persist longer than an equivalent systemic dose. active central nervous system lymphoma may increase the duration of toxic levels in the circulation and contribute to the peripheral effects of the drug. the pathogenesis of tumor lysis syndrome in this patient and the mechanisms of systemic toxicity of intrathecal methotrexate are discussed.
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis. we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis. the mean age of the patients was 31.1 +/- 4.3 years. at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women, stage iii in 25, and stage i in three. after reoperation, the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 +/- 30.3 months. pain symptoms returned in eight women, dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight, and pelvic pain in seven. eight of the 28 women (28.6%) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies. the corrected pregnancy rate was 35%, and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7%. a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months. conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis.
proximal tubular alpha 2-adrenoceptor density in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. in the kidney of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr), alpha 2-adrenoceptors are increased and may be related to hypertension. we measured alpha 2-adrenoceptor density and characteristics in a proximal tubule suspension with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, 3h-rauwolscine. shr had a significantly greater density of alpha 2-adrenoceptors when compared to their normotensive controls, the wistar-kyoto (wky) rats (146 +/- 13 v 58 +/- 7 fmol/mg protein; p less than .001). competition experiments determined the alpha 2-adrenoceptor to be an alpha 2b-subtype. agonist competition curves were shallow and exhibited pseudo-hill slopes of less than 1, indicating that they bind to both high and low affinity receptor sites. in summary, alpha 2-adrenoceptors are increased in the proximal tubule of shr and appear to be of the alpha 2b-subtype. an increase in alpha 2-adrenoceptors may be related to abnormalities in hypertension.
babies born before arrival at hospital. objective--to establish the prevalence of babies born before arrival at two local hospitals. to identify women at risk of giving birth before arrival, and the morbidity and mortality associated with such births. design--a case control study. each baby born before arrival and its mother were compared with the next born in the hospital (random control), and one matched for gestation and birthweight, together with their mothers. setting--two maternity units serving east birmingham and solihull. subjects--all babies (and their mothers) born before arrival at these hospitals from january 1983 to december 1987. main outcome measures--perinatal mortality rates, patterns of perinatal morbidity, demographic, social and obstetric features of the mothers. results--137 (0.44%) of 31,140 consecutive births were before arrival at hospital (bba group). the perinatal mortality rate in the bba group was 58.4/1000 (8 deaths) compared with 10.1/1000 for all inborn babies (relative risk 5.8, 95% confidence interval 2.9-11.4). in the bba group the mean birthweight of 3008 g was 212 g (95% ci 50-374 g) less than that in the random control group; the mean gestation of 266 days was 10 days less (95% ci 5.9-14.1 days) than in the random control group. hypothermia was the commonest morbidity. women delivered before arrival tended to be either multigravid inner city asians living a long way from the hospital or unmarried unbooked younger white europeans. conclusions--the high perinatal mortality was related to immaturity and low birthweight, rather than to birth before arrival itself. although groups of mothers at risk of delivery before arrival can be identified more information is needed to establish whether additional antenatal care would be beneficial for these women and their babies.
loss of endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein function in atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries. pertussis toxin, an irreversible inhibitor of some g proteins, inhibits endothelium-dependent relaxations to certain agonists in porcine coronary arteries. in the present study, the effects of the toxin were examined on endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations of hypercholesterolemic and atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries to assess the functional state of the endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein. male yorkshire pigs were maintained on either a regular diet (control group, n = 7) or a 2% high-cholesterol diet (cholesterol-fed group, n = 7) for 10 weeks. after the initial 2 weeks of maintenance, animals in both groups underwent balloon catheter removal of the endothelium of the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary arteries. endothelium-dependent responses were examined in vitro after 10 weeks of maintenance; at this time, a full lining of endothelial cells in both left coronary arteries was confirmed histologically. in arteries with endothelium of the control group (normal responses), pertussis toxin significantly inhibited the endothelium-dependent relaxations to serotonin, uk14304 (a selective alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonist), and thrombin but not those to adp, bradykinin, or the calcium ionophore a23187. in previously denuded arteries of the control group (effects of endothelial regeneration alone) or intact arteries of the cholesterol-fed group (effects of hypercholesterolemia alone), the relaxations to serotonin, uk14304, and thrombin were impaired significantly; those relaxations were impaired further in previously denuded arteries of the cholesterol-fed group (effects of atherosclerosis). the inhibitory effects of pertussis toxin were significantly reduced after endothelial regeneration and in hypercholesterolemia and were almost absent in atherosclerosis.
development of language in six hemispherectomized patients. the development of language skills in the isolated right hemisphere was investigated by comparing the performance of 3 left hemispherectomized with that of the 3 right hemispherectomized patients and three groups of control subjects on baseline clinical measures of language and on production and judgement of morphological markers. the initial brain insult in the hemispherectomy patients of each group had occurred either during early, middle or late childhood. the left hemispherectomy patients were severely impaired in language processing across all three stages of language development. the consequences of a right hemisphere insult on language development were more restricted, with deleterious effects being apparent only in the case in which the lesion was acquired during early childhood.
mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer. microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma. over 7 years, 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction, 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue, 7 for recurrent tumor, and 6 for other reasons [lymphangioma (1), infection (1), gunshot wound (1), and osteoradionecrosis (3)]. primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9. all repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula, 5 radial forearm, 3 fibula, 2 serratus, and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery. mandibular defects included the symphysis alone (7), symphysis and body (5), symphysis-body-ramus condyle (2), body or ramus (13), and bilateral body (1). fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses. eight received postoperative radiotherapy. all patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination (28) and positive radionuclide scan (22 of 22). bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26. one complete flap loss occurred at 14 days. complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis (3), orocutaneous fistula (3), plate exposure (1), donor site infection (3), fracture of reconstruction (1), and fracture of the radius (1). microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction--despite previous radiotherapy, infection, foreign body, or surgery--in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent. bony union, a healed wound, and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula, skin loss, or metal plate or bone exposure.
nitrous oxide antagonizes cns stimulation by laudanosine in mice. we have investigated whether nitrous oxide antagonizes or augments the cns stimulant action of laudanosine in mice by comparing the mean convulsive doses (cd50 (se] of a control group and those following pretreatment with 65% nitrous oxide in oxygen for 20 and 180 min. nitrous oxide significantly increased cd50 from 46.8 (1.4) mg kg-1 of control to 57.3 (1.3) mg kg-1 at 20 min and 53.5 (1.7) mg kg-1 at 180 min. the attenuation of the effect of nitrous oxide at 180 min, suggestive of possible partial drug tolerance, was not statistically significant. these findings indicate that nitrous oxide antagonizes the cns stimulating action of laudanosine.
observations on the haemopoietic response to critical illness. peripheral blood cytopenias are common in patients receiving intensive care, particularly in those with multiple organ failure. to assess the contribution of bone marrow hypoplasia in such patients 44 bone marrow samples from 24 patients under intensive care were studied by standard morphological techniques and by the granulocyte-macrophage colony forming cell (gm-cfc) assay. frequently observed morphological abnormalities in the bone marrow included the following: (i) a reduction in overall cellularity in seven patients, with a progressive decrease in most patients studied sequentially; (ii) an increase in the number of actively phagocytic macrophages; and (iii) a disruption of normal bone marrow architecture with the accumulation of intercellular hyaluronic acid glycosaminoglycan. mean gm-cfc growth was significantly reduced when compared with that in a group of normal controls. in four of five patients studied sequentially gm-cfc growth became subnormal in association with a reduction in bone marrow cellularity. inhibitory serum factors were not identified. these morphological abnormalities are similar to the changes observed in gelatinous degeneration of the bone marrow. in both situations disruption of the haemopoietic microenvironment, with the accumulation of hyaluronic acid proteoglycan, may be an important factor in the inhibition of haemopoietic progenitor cell growth. the proliferation of macrophages, by the release of a variety of cytokines or reactive oxygen intermediates, may also be implicated in impaired haemopoiesis and the development of disordered erythropoiesis.
reconstructions after resections of tumors involving the proximal femur. advances in prosthesis design, the use of allografts, and a systematic approach to the staging and surgical treatment of musculoskeletal tumors have made limb salvage possible in the proximal femoral region. with the use of effective adjuvant therapy, limb salvage is now an option for the majority of patients presenting with locally invasive neoplasms in this area. the increase in functional outcome is sufficient to warrant serious consideration of limb salvage over the corresponding amputation. preoperative planning is discussed along with surgical techniques.
the effects of synthetic human secretin on calcium carbonate solubility in human bile this study sought to determine the effects of synthetic human secretin on ionized calcium and carbonate concentrations in human hepatic bile. five patients with a nasobiliary drain in the right hepatic duct were studied. three basal samples of bile were collected, each over a 15-minute period. synthetic human secretin was then infused iv at 0.05 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 for 45 minutes followed by 0.5 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 for 45 minutes. bile was sampled over 15-minute periods. to document return to baseline conditions, two further samples of bile were obtained over 15-minute periods 2 hours after the infusion was terminated. bile acid concentration was determined by an enzymatic method; ph and pco2 were measured with an automated analyzer. total calcium was determined by inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry and ionized calcium by an ion-specific electrode. bicarbonate and carbonate concentrations were calculated using henry's law and the henderson-hasselbalch equation. the fraction of bile sampled by the catheter was determined by indocyanin green recovery at the end of the experiment. secretin caused an increase in bile flow and bicarbonate output. bicarbonate concentrations increased from 26 +/- 3 mmol/l to 41 +/- 3 mmol/l (p less than 0.05), and chloride concentrations decreased. mean bile acid concentrations declined significantly from 14.6 +/- 2 mmol/l to 4.7 +/- 1 mmol/l (p less than 0.05). ionized calcium concentrations decreased from 0.7 +/- 0.005 mmol/l to 0.5 +/- 0.02 mmol/l (p less than 0.05) while ph increased significantly from 7.44 +/- 0.06 to 7.6 +/- 0.04 (p less than 0.05). carbonate concentrations increased significantly from 0.15 +/- 0.02 mmol/l to 0.26 +/- 0.03 mmol/l, and the ion product for calcium carbonate increased significantly from 0.099 +/- 0.002 (mmol/l)2 to 0.135 +/- 0.015 (mmol/l)2 (p less than 0.05). synthetic human secretin augments the ion product of calcium and carbonate in human hepatic bile, increasing the tendency for calcium carbonate precipitation.
radiation therapy for intraductal carcinoma. is it an equal alternative? of 213 consecutive patients with intraductal carcinoma, 109 were selectively treated with mastectomy and 104 with radiation therapy. there were eight local recurrences, seven in patients treated with radiation therapy and one in a patient treated with mastectomy. histologically, there were 110 comedocarcinomas and 103 noncomedocarcinomas. seven local recurrences occurred in patients with comedocarcinomas and one in a patient with a noncomedo tumor. three (38%) of eight local recurrences (all comedo) were invasive. the 5-year actuarial survival for all subgroups was 100%. the median follow-up was 51 months. intraductal carcinoma is unlikely to metastasize to axillary lymph nodes, and routine dissection is unnecessary. ductal carcinoma in situ of the comedo variety is more aggressive and more likely to recur than its noncomedo counterpart. we currently view conservative therapy for patients with intraductal comedocarcinoma with caution.
colorectal adenocarcinoma in patients less than 40 years of age. from 1973 to 1985, 105 patients under 40 years of age were treated for colorectal adenocarcinoma at roswell park cancer institute. there were 51 males and 54 females. the mean age was 32 years. the majority of patients were treated for left colon or rectal carcinomas. ninety-seven of 105 patients underwent surgical resection of their primary cancer, 70 (67 percent) of which were potentially curative. twenty-seven patients underwent palliative resections. dukes' a or b lesions were not seen in patients less than 20 years old, whereas these early lesions were seen in 11 percent of patients 20 to 29 years old and in 26 percent of patients greater than 30 years of age. the mean survival for patients between 20 and 29 years was 39 months and 46 months for patients 30 years and older.
autonomic dysfunction and guillain-barre syndrome. the use of esmolol in its management. a 17-year-old girl with guillain-barre syndrome and autonomic dysfunction was treated successfully with esmolol. esmolol may be an appropriate drug for the rapid assessment and control of tachyarrhythmias in critically ill patients.
effect of maintenance digoxin therapy on aerobic performance and exercise left ventricular function in mild to moderate heart failure due to coronary artery disease: a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. despite 200 years of use, the ability of digitalis glycosides to improve exercise capacity in patients with congestive heart failure remains controversial, partly because of imprecise end points and suboptimal study design. therefore, this question was examined in 10 ambulatory patients (8 men and 2 women) aged 46 to 70 years (mean 57.8) in sinus rhythm with mild to moderate chronic stable congestive heart failure due to coronary artery disease and systolic left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 32 +/- 12). all underwent maximal treadmill exercise with respiratory gas analysis and upright cycle ergometry with gated radionuclide angiography after 4 weeks of digoxin or placebo therapy, administered in a randomized double-blind crossover protocol. neither treadmill exercise duration (7.7 +/- 2.3 versus 7.3 +/- 2.7 min) nor peak oxygen consumption (18.7 +/- 3.7 versus 18.4 +/- 5.4 ml/kg per min) differed between digoxin and placebo regimens. however, the change in peak oxygen consumption induced by digoxin was inversely related to the peak oxygen consumption during placebo therapy (r = -0.64, p less than 0.05). at maximal treadmill effort, heart rate (138 +/- 16 versus 141 +/- 21 beats/min), oxygen pulse (10.3 +/- 2.1 versus 9.9 +/- 2.2 ml/beat), ventilation (40.3 +/- 10.6 versus 42.0 +/- 10.8 liters/min) and ventilatory equivalent (29.4 +/- 4.8 versus 31.5 +/- 6.8) did not differ between digoxin and placebo treatment, although systolic blood pressure was higher during digoxin therapy (163.0 +/- 23.1 versus 153.2 +/- 25.3 mm hg, p less than 0.05).
neonatal calves develop airflow limitation due to chronic hypobaric hypoxia. neonates and infants presenting with pulmonary hypertension and chronic hypoxia often exhibit airway obstruction. to investigate this association, we utilized a system in which neonatal calves are exposed to chronic hypobaric hypoxia and develop severe pulmonary hypertension. for the present study, one of each pair of six age-matched pairs of neonatal calves was continuously exposed to hypobaric hypoxia at 4,500 m (ch); the other remained at 1,500 m. at 2 wk of age, mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mpap), dynamic lung compliance (cdyn), resistance (rl), and static respiratory system compliance (crs) were measured at 4,500 m in both ch and control calves exposed acutely to hypoxia (c). these measurements were repeated after cumulative administrations of nebulized methacholine (mch). tissues were removed for histological examination and assessment of bronchial ring contractility to mch and kcl. after 2 wk of hypobaric hypoxia, mpap (c 35 +/- 1.7 vs. ch 120 +/- 7 mmhg, p less than 0.001) and rl (c 2.64 +/- 0.16 vs ch 4.99 +/- 0.47 cmh2o.l-1s, p less than 0.001) increased. cdyn (c 0.100 +/- 0.01 vs. ch 0.082 +/- 0.007 l/cmh2o) and crs (ch 0.46 +/- 0.003 vs. c 0.59 +/- 0.009 l/cmh2o) were not significantly different. compared with airways of c calves, airways of ch animals did not exhibit in vivo or in vitro mch hyperresponsiveness; however, in vitro contractility to kcl of airways from ch animals was significantly increased. histologically, airways from the ch calves showed increases in airway fibrous tissue and smooth muscle.
imaging modalities in recurrent head and neck tumors. patients with recurrent neoplasms of the head and neck present perplexing management problems, and accurate preoperative assessment of their disease is crucial. thirty-eight patients with suspected recurrent neoplasms comprise this study: 30 had computed tomography scans, 4 had magnetic resonance images, and 4 patients underwent both computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging to assess the anatomical extent of pathology in 34 malignant and 4 benign tumors. contrast enhancement was essential for detecting disease on computed tomography scan. differentiation of recurrent tumor was more difficult when the patient had undergone radiation. magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated superior visibility in recurrent parotid and paranasal sinus neoplasm, but was less helpful in laryngeal and pharyngeal recurrences. computed tomography demonstration of a mass with infiltration of normal fat or tissue planes or lymphadenopathy correlated highly with recurrent disease. imaging techniques and fine points for determining recurrent neoplasms are presented.
advantages of beta blockers versus antiarrhythmic agents and calcium antagonists in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. patients who have sustained greater than or equal to 1 myocardial infarcts are at high risk for sudden death or reinfarction; the risk is highest for those with lowest ventricular ejection fraction, continuing myocardial ischemia and asymptomatic high-density and complex premature ventricular contractions. at present, beta blockers when given prophylactically are the only agents that reduce the incidence of sudden death and reinfarction in survivors of myocardial infarction (mi) in the first 2 years. the beneficial effect was shown to correlate with a reduction in heart rate, the effect being absent or deleterious with beta blockers with marked sympathomimetic activity. the effects of beta blockers on ventricular fibrillation appeared to be dissociated from those on premature ventricular contractions. trials with calcium antagonists indicate that these drugs had no effect or increased the mortality rate. the divergent effect of beta blockers and calcium antagonists is unexplained but may be due in part to a lack of bradycardiac effect of calcium antagonists; there were no differences in effect among different calcium antagonists. data from trials involving class i antiarrhythmic agents indicate that agents acting by depression of cardiac conduction are either devoid of effect or produce a modest increase in mortality. results of the cardiac arrhythmia suppression trial, employing the newer class i agents flecainide and encainide, were used to determine whether the suppression of premature ventricular contractions in the survivors of acute mi reduces mortality. flecainide and encainide suppressed premature ventricular contractions greater than 80%, but resulted in an increased mortality rate undoubtedly due to a marked proarrhythmic effect. whether these data can be extrapolated to all class i agents is uncertain. preliminary data with class iii antiarrhythmic agents suggest that these agents, especially amiodarone, similarly to beta blockers, have the potential to reduce mortality in survivors of mi. evolving data suggest that in the secondary prevention of morbid events in the survivors of acute mi, the focus must shift away from antiarrhythmic agents that delay conduction and toward beta blockers and antifibrillatory actions resulting from a prolongation of refractoriness.
development of a soft, pliable, slow heparin release venous graft. to prevent their collapse, a certain amount of stiffness is generally required for prosthetic venous grafts, so eptfe grafts have been used. however, the native vein is pliable without any stiffness. we developed a soft and pliable graft that can maintain patency of the lumen because of its compliance. fresh porcine ureter was incubated in a ficin solution to remove cell components and noncollagenous proteins. one percent protamine sulfate solution was injected into the ureter lumen to impregnate the inner surface. the ureter was then crosslinked with a 1% glutaraldehyde solution, dipped into a 1% heparin solution for 5 hours, and rinsed with distilled water. this procedure made the ureter very soft and pliable, and also conferred antithrombogenicity to the graft by heparinization. the grafts were implanted into the posterior vena cavae of 20 dogs and were removed from 1 to 878 days after implantation. eighteen grafts were patent, but two grafts were occluded at the anastomotic site at 218 and 107 days, respectively. as a control experiment, nonheparinized grafts were implanted into 15 dogs; all were occluded with fresh thrombi. all the patent grafts kept their original elasticity, which allowed them to heave in unison with the heartbeat, and were similar in appearance to the native vena cava. heparinization was effective in preventing thrombus formation. these results indicate that this type of graft is an ideal prosthesis as a venous graft, having physiologic properties such as compliance and antithrombogenicity.
rate-related left bundle branch block as a cause of non-ischemic chest pain. a case is presented of rate-dependent left bundle branch block associated with chest pain in a patient with angiographically normal coronary arteries. lactate extraction showed no evidence of myocardial ischemia. it appears that in this case, chest pain was associated with sudden ventricular asynergy rather than myocardial ischemia.
venous infarction following the interhemispheric approach in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. postoperative venous infarction following aneurysm surgery was studied in 48 patients with anterior communicating artery aneurysms operated on through the interhemispheric approach at the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). of 23 patients whose bridging veins were sacrificed during surgery, 11 (47.8%) showed venous infarction in the frontal lobes. in contrast, only one (5.9%) of 17 patients whose bridging veins were preserved developed cerebral edema. none of eight patients who were operated on after day 11 (the day of sah was defined as day 0) showed this complication, although bridging veins were sacrificed in six of them. venous infarction following acute aneurysm surgery tended to occur more frequently in patients of higher sah grade and/or more advanced age, but these correlations were not significant. however, the correlation between the sacrifice of veins and venous infarction was significant (p less than 0.025). because this potential complication may compromise the benefit of acute aneurysm surgery and cause damage, it is important to preserve the venous system and in some instances to select another surgical approach based on the pattern of venous drainage in the frontal lobe.
the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. mixed disulfides of methanethiol represent a relative estimate for an exposure to methanethiol. the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides, methionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and ammonia were measured in patients with different stages of hepatic encephalopathy, in patients with chronic kidney failure and in healthy subjects. in patients with hepatic encephalopathy, the mean serum concentrations of all these compounds were elevated. however, the elevations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were small and partly caused by decreased renal function. in addition, the levels of methanethiol-mixed disulfides did not differ significantly between the different grades of hepatic encephalopathy. the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were substantially lower than those previously observed in healthy subjects after an oral methionine load or in a patient with a deficiency in methionine adenosyltransferase, the latter without causing encephalopathy. we concluded that the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy is probably minor, if not insignificant. in the patients with hepatic encephalopathy, a significant correlation was found between the concentrations of methionine and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and between 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and methanethiol-mixed disulfides, supporting the theory that methanethiol is formed by way of the methionine transamination pathway. evidence is provided that, besides the methionine transsulfuration pathway, the transamination pathway is also impaired in patients with hepatic encephalopathy.
acute myocarditis simulating myocardial infarction in a child. pediatric chest pain usually occurs in benign conditions. however, this case portrays the dramatic electrocardiographic appearance of acute myocardial ischemia in a boy with biopsy-proven myocarditis who had only mild chest pain. this underscores the need for eliciting a detailed history when evaluating a patient with chest pain. if the pain cannot be clearly attributed to chest wall phenomena, or if there are historical or physical findings suggestive of an arrhythmia or angina, then further investigation with a chest radiograph and a 12-lead electrocardiogram is recommended. myocarditis must be considered in the differential diagnosis of any child whose electrocardiogram is indistinguishable from an acute myocardial infarction. finally, endomyocardial biopsy allows early diagnosis and institution of therapy, which may have beneficial effect on decreasing morbidity and mortality. further follow-up and research is still needed to evaluate the effect of early treatment of myocarditis on long-term myocardial function and the development of chronic cardiomyopathy.
measles-associated diarrhea in hospitalized children in lima, peru: pathogenic agents and impact on growth. because the causes of measles-associated diarrhea are not well known, 0- to 5-year-old children presenting to the hospital with measles-associated diarrhea (cases, n = 77) or acute diarrhea only (controls, n = 77) were compared. growth and diarrheal morbidity were evaluated for 1 month after acute illness. campylobacter jejuni was more frequently isolated from cases (31%) than controls (16%; p = .03). rotavirus was absent in all cases versus 28% of controls (p less than .001). incidence density for new episodes of diarrhea was significantly greater in cases (6.5 vs. 4.1; odds ratio, 1.6; confidence intervals, 1.09-2.34; p = .01), as was duration of episodes (3 vs. 2 days, p = .02). both groups showed similar positive cumulative percentage weight gains throughout follow-up. these data support the theory of measles as a risk factor for developing diarrhea. the bacteriologic and virologic findings may reflect the immunologic response of the host to measles infection.
a clinical and flow cytometric analysis of patients with nasopharyngeal cancer. abnormal cellular dna content, a hallmark of malignancy, is known to be an important prognostic factor in many human solid tumors; however, no data have been published on whether cellular dna content carries prognostic significance for patients with nasopharyngeal cancer (npc). archival, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded pathology specimens representing pretreatment tissue biopsies from 55 patients (41 men and 14 women) with npc were analyzed for cellular dna content in a retrospective fashion from 1968 to 1988. individual tumors were classified as either lymphoepithelioma, squamous cell, or anaplastic carcinoma, and were staged according to international union against cancer (uicc) criteria. all patients were treated with curative intent using a 4 to 6 mev linear accelerator to total doses ranging from 50 to 60 gy in 4 to 6 weeks. the overall 5-year actuarial survival for all 55 patients was 44.4% (men, 41%; women, 52%). survival by t stage was as follows: t1, 65%; t2, 51%; t3, 36%; and t4, 27%. similarly, the 5-year survival rate declined as the bulk of nodal metastases increased: n0, 62%; n2, 50%; n3, 37%; and n1, 25%. patients who had anaplastic carcinoma had a 5-year survival of 73%, those with lymphoepithelioma had a 60% survival, and those with squamous cell cancer (scc) had a 30% survival. there was a statistically significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with scc and those with nonkeratinizing histologies (p less than 0.05). in addition, there was a significant association between patients older than 40 years of age with scc and patients younger than 40 years of age with nonkeratinizing malignancies (p less than 0.01). of the 55 tumors successfully analyzed, 22 (40%) were diploid and 33 (60%) were aneuploid. the mean coefficient of variation (cv) of all 55 samples was 6.17%. there was no significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with diploid and those with aneuploid tumors (48% versus 42%). furthermore, there was no statistically significant survival difference between aneuploid and diploid tumors within any one histologic subgroup. there was also no significant survival difference related to the dna index. the results indicate that the extent of local tumor spread is still the most important prognostic factor for patients treated with radiotherapy for npc. the data support the conclusion that patients with lymphoepithelioma and anaplastic carcinomas have a superior survival to patients with squamous cell carcinoma.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
hybridization protection assay: a rapid, sensitive, and specific method for detection of philadelphia chromosome-positive leukemias. the philadelphia (ph1) chromosome is present in greater than 90% of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) and in 2% to 20% of those with acute leukemias, for which it is an important prognostic marker too. the chimeric bcr-abl mrnas resulting from the translocation encode either a 210-kd or a 190-kd protein. the techniques used to detect ph1 chromosome include karyotyping, southern analysis to demonstrate bcr rearrangement, and polymerase chain reaction to amplify the bcr-abl transcripts. however, the routine performance of these methods by clinical laboratories is cumbersome, time consuming, and exposes laboratory personnel to radioisotopes. we describe here the clinical application of a new method, the hybridization protection assay (hpa), which uses chemiluminescent acridinium-ester-labeled probes in conjunction with pcr for detection of the amplified bcr-abl sequences. the method is sensitive, specific, and can reliably distinguish between the transcripts for p190bcr-abl and p210bcr-abl. in contrast to the 2 days or longer required for conventional hybridization, hpa analysis can be completed in less than 30 minutes. we have successfully used this method to analyze 60 leukemia samples (34 from ph1-negative acute leukemias; 6 from ph1-positive acute leukemias; and 20 from cml) with complete correlation (of bcr-abl positivity or negativity) with the results of karyotype or southern blot analysis of genomic dna for bcr rearrangement. therefore, the hpa, in conjunction with pcr, appears to provide a rapid and reliable test for the diagnosis of ph1-positivity.
association between dna ploidy pattern and cellular atypia in colorectal carcinomas. a new clinical application of dna flow cytometric study? fresh tissue specimens from 406 colorectal carcinomas were analyzed by dna flow cytometric study, and the dna ploidy pattern was compared with dukes' stage, histologic grade, and degree of cellular atypia. sixty-one percent of the carcinomas had a distinct aneuploid dna pattern. the proportion of aneuploid carcinomas was significantly higher in the advanced dukes' stages than in the localized ones. a highly significant association was found between dna ploidy pattern and degree of cellular atypia, whereas no association was demonstrated between dna ploidy pattern and histologic grade. this finding might indicate that cellular atypia has a stronger prognostic impact than the growth pattern of the tumor. the authors suggest that flow cytometric dna quantification may replace assessment of cellular atypia in the histologic evaluation. furthermore, together with earlier findings by others, these results indicate that the degree of cellular atypia may be conserved during the development from adenomas to carcinomas.
a self-administered hand symptom diagram for the diagnosis and epidemiologic study of carpal tunnel syndrome. noninvasive tests for carpal tunnel syndrome (cts) are of limited diagnostic value. a self-administered hand symptom diagram has been developed for use in the diagnosis and epidemiologic study of cts. diagrams are rated classic cts, probable, possible or unlikely. diagram ratings were compared with nerve conduction diagnoses in 110 patients with upper extremity complaints. a hand diagram rating of classic or probable cts had sensitivity of 0.64, specificity of 0.73 and positive predictive value of 0.58. the negative predictive value of an unlikely diagram was 0.91. we conclude that the diagram is a useful diagnostic tool and may be valuable for occupational and population screening.
eosinophilic meningitis: cause of a chronic pain syndrome. three tourists developed eosinophilic meningitis after visiting the fijian islands. two had a severe and long lasting illness with chronic intractable pain. in one patient electrophysiological studies and mri scan of the brain were abnormal and provided evidence of both radicular and cerebral parenchymal involvement by the most likely causative agent, angiostrongylus cantonensis.
stroke in pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. in a 4 1/2-year period, 4 of 68 children in a longitudinal study of neurological complications of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection had clinical and/or neuroradiological evidence of stroke, yielding a clinical incidence of stroke in this population of 1.3% per year. during this period, 32 subjects died, and permission for autopsy was granted in 18 of the patients, including 3 of 4 who had clinical evidence of stroke. the prevalence of cerebrovascular pathological features in our consecutive autopsy series was higher than the clinical incidence. at autopsy cerebrovascular disease was documented in 6 (24%) of 25 children with hiv infection, including all 3 children who had clinical evidence of stroke. four patients had intracerebral hemorrhages, 6 patients had nonhemorrhagic infarcts, and 3 had both. hemorrhage was catastrophic in 1 child and clinically silent in 3 children, all of whom had immune thrombocytopenia. one child had an arteriopathy that affected meningocerebral arteries. in another child, the arteries of the circle of willis were aneurysmally dilated. two children had coexisting cardiomyopathy and subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy with vascular proliferation. these results suggest that stroke should be considered when children with hiv infection develop focal neurological signs.
nurse-monitored cardiac recovery: a description of the first 8 weeks. health problems and related patient management during early recovery after cardiac surgery are not well documented. as part of a larger study of recovery from cardiac surgery 75 patient-care giver pairs received telephone calls from nurses at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 weeks after discharge for the purpose of intervening to facilitate early recovery at home. after each call, nurses recorded detailed notes on the patients' progress and concerns. content analysis of detailed nurses' recordings revealed the following predominant nursing actions: assessment, provision of support, reinforcement of predischarge teaching, referrals, and teaching. the five nursing diagnoses that occurred most frequently across the 8-week recovery period were altered comfort: pain; ineffective coping, individual; activity intolerance; sleep pattern disturbance; and altered nutrition. in response to these problems, patients managed and prevented health-related problems and engaged in health promotional and normalizing activities. by anticipating common problems in recovery, patients and care givers can be better prepared for going home. similarly nurses can be better prepared to anticipate and respond to common recovery problems.
acupuncture and chronic pain: a criteria-based meta-analysis. a literature search revealed 51 controlled clinical studies on the effectiveness of acupuncture in chronic pain. these studies were reviewed using a list of 18 predefined methodological criteria. a maximum of 100 points for study design could be earned in four main categories: (a) comparability of prognosis, (b) adequate intervention, (c) adequate effect measurement and (d) data presentation. the quality of even the better studies proved to be mediocre. no study earned more than 62% of the maximum score. the results from the better studies (greater than or equal to 50% of the maximum score) are highly contradictory. the efficacy of acupuncture in the treatment of chronic pain remains doubtful.
mucosal characteristics of pelvic ileal pouches. this study aimed to investigate the degree of colonic metaplasia in ileo - anal pouches. biopsy specimens from 25 patients with functioning pouches, eight of whom had pouchitis, were studied using routine histology, mucosal morphometry, mucin histochemistry, and immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies directed towards a 40kd colonic protein and a small bowel specific disaccharidase-sucrase isomaltase. thirteen patients (including all eight with pouchitis) had subtotal or total villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia. in this group, nine had colorectal type sulphomucin and the 40kd colonic protein was detected in two. these changes were not observed in patients with less severe villous abnormalities. sucrase-isomaltase activity was, however, present in all 25 pouch specimens. we conclude that although some ileal pouches acquire certain colonic characteristics, complete colonic metaplasia does not occur.
insulin-like growth factor-i receptors in nonfunctioning thyroid nodules. we have recently demonstrated the production of insulin-like growth factor-i (igf-i) as well as the presence of type i igf receptors in human thyroid cells in primary culture. the role of igf-i in the control of thyroid cell growth has been well established. in order to investigate the involvement of igf-i in abnormal thyroid growth, the density of igf-i receptors in solitary, cold, micro- and macro-follicular thyroid adenomas, and in extranodular histological normal tissue was studied. forty-three euthyroid patients with isolated cold nodules were selected for the study. in 30 patients the presence of igf-i receptors was evaluated by using quantitative immunohistochemistry; in 10 patients by using radioligand binding studies, and in 3 patients by using affinity labeling. cross-linking and binding studies clearly demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous class of binding sites for type i igf receptors. furthermore, radioligand studies did not show any significant differences in receptor density between the 2 types of thyroidal tissues. conversely, the computerized analysis of 900 fields of nodular and normal thyroid tissues immunostained with the monoclonal antibody alpha-ir3, strongly indicated that higher concentrations of igf-i receptors were present in the epithelial cells of non-functioning thyroid nodules than in the adjacent extranodular thyroid tissues. these studies strongly suggest that the same type i igf receptor is present in thyroid follicular adenomas as in histological normal thyroid tissue removed from the same patient. the higher concentration of igf-i receptors as documented by immunostaining in the adenomas suggests that igf-i may contribute to the abnormal growth of the neoplasms.
duodenal ulcer and refined carbohydrate intake: a case-control study assessing dietary fibre and refined sugar intake an association between duodenal ulceration and a low fibre intake and a high refined carbohydrate diet has been reported. we therefore compared the current diet, smoking habits, social class, and possible other risk factors of 78 patients with duodenal ulcer and a community control group matched for age and sex. logistic regression for matched sets was used to calculate the relative risks for successive quintiles of dietary fibre and sugar intake before and after adjustment for total calorie intake and for the possible confounding effect of other known risk factors. relative risks did not differ materially or consistently for total dietary fibre or for the cereal moiety whether adjusted or not for calorie intake. by contrast, relative risks tended to be reduced with high vegetable fibre intake and with low refined sugar intake. after controlling for smoking and social class, both of which were associated with ulcer disease, and for relative weight (quetelet's index), the relation between ulcer disease and low refined sugar intake persisted, while that with high vegetable fibre intake was reduced. the results of this study indicate that a lack of cereal or total fibre intake plays no part in duodenal ulcer development but that a low refined sugar intake may be a protective factor.
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma: a phase ii study. forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) intravenously (iv) every 4 hours separated by 1 week. this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2/lak working group. patient eligibility criteria, and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial. forty-six patients were assessable for response. objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients (two complete responses [crs], eight partial responses [prs]) or 22% with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites. the median response duration was 8 months. toxicity was significant; three patients developed myocardial infarction, and one patient died during therapy. overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial. these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans, and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2.
possible platelet contribution to pathogenesis of transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome. the pathogenesis of the transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome is largely unknown. the role of platelet activation was investigated in three preterm infants with this syndrome by non-invasive methods. in all three infants, urinary concentrations of beta-thromboglobulin and 11-dehydrothromboxane b2 levels were much higher during the hyperammonaemia than those in ten control preterm infants. it is possible that transient platelet activation occurs in the portal system of these infants, thereby causing the hyperammonaemia.
acute bronchitis: general practitioners' views regarding diagnosis and treatment. a survey was conducted among 800 dutch general practitioners to establish their views on the diagnosis and treatment of bronchitis and related disorders with reference to 12 theoretical patients. the answers of the 467 respondents (response rate 60%) showed no clear relationship between signs and symptoms of the patients and the diagnosis made. in the authors' opinion the diagnosis of pneumonia was made too often. the decision whether or not to prescribe an antibiotic for a coughing patient was based in part on the diagnosis made, but in part it was also made on the basis of the signs and symptoms, irrespective of the diagnosis. the authors have the impression that general practitioners tend to prescribe antibiotics too quickly to coughing patients. there is a need for guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of patients with acute bronchitis and related conditions.
all-trans retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemias. ii. in vitro studies: structure-function relationship. all-trans retinoic acid induces leukemic cells from patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (m3) to differentiate in vitro to mature granulocytes which express the cd15 antigen and are capable of respiratory burst function. of 35 m3 samples, only one failed to respond. in eight cases, we compared the efficacy of two naturally occurring isomers of retinoic acid, all-trans ra and 13-cis ra. both isomers induce maximal differentiation at 10(-6) mol/l. the maximal response was maintained at 10(-7) mol/l for the all-trans but not for the 13-cis ra. we also observed that the metabolites 4-oxo-all-trans and 4-oxo-13-cis were effective at 10(-6) mol/l. this 1 order of magnitude difference in the in vitro differentiating potencies of all-trans ra and 13-cis ra in the blasts of promyelocytic leukemias predicts a difference in the clinical efficacy of the two drugs.
clinical and anatomical considerations for nonoperative therapy in tibial disease and the results of angioplasty. for a 6-year period, 96 patients had 146 below-knee angioplasties. there were 31 total occlusions and 95 multiple stenoses. all patients had distal ischemia, and 40% had gangrene. the primary success rate was 97%, and the 2-year limb salvage rate was 83%. the ankle/brachial index increased from a mean of 0.25 before the procedure to 0.62 afterward. at 2 years (35 patients), the mean ankle/brachial index was 0.55. for the same period, 320 femorodistal bypasses were performed. the results of angioplasty are comparable to those of surgery, but angioplasty is only suitable in about 20-30% of patients presenting with isolated tibial disease. suitable lesions are five or fewer stenoses and occlusions 5 cm or less in length.
urinary retention due to sacral myeloradiculitis: a clinical and neurophysiological study. we report 5 cases of sacral myeloradiculitis presenting with transient urinary retention. neurophysiological testing, including bulbocavernosus reflex, pudendal evoked response and external anal sphincter electromyography, was performed. parasympathetic pelvic nerves, pudendal nerves as well as the spinal cord seem to be involved to various degrees in this infrequent disorder.
predictors of physician nonadherence to chemotherapy regimens. physician nonadherence to cancer treatment regimens may diminish treatment efficacy and compromise clinical research. the influence of clinical, demographic, and psychosocial patient characteristics on physician adherence to breast cancer chemotherapy was investigated, as was the role of the clinician's attitudes concerning the chemotherapy. one hundred seven women recently diagnosed with breast cancer were followed for 26 weeks of treatment. fifty-six (52%) of the patients experienced unjustified modification for at least one chemotherapeutic agent. stepwise multiple regression revealed independent contributions of increased patient age, treatment setting (clinic versus academic or community private practice), and stage of disease to physician nonadherence. regimen complexity, delay in seeking treatment, and presence of psychiatric disorder did not contribute, in general, to unjustified regimen modifications. patient psychological and psychiatric factors, however, did influence prescribing behavior for vincristine. physician awareness of factors contributing to unnecessary treatment modifications may reduce the frequency of such behaviors.
decreased toxicity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward hepatocytes isolated from rats with acute inflammatory reaction. we have recently demonstrated that polymorphonuclear neutrophils were toxic to hepatocytes through a protease-mediated mechanism. since synthesis of antiproteases is markedly increased during acute inflammatory reaction, the aim of this work was to investigate the toxicity of neutrophils against normal vs. inflammatory rat hepatocytes. acute inflammatory reaction was induced by subcutaneous injection of turpentine 24 hr before the experiments. hepatocytes from normal and turpentine-treated rats were isolated by collagenase digestion. they were incubated with human neutrophils stimulated by 1 mg/ml opsonized zymosan. cytotoxicity was quantified by the percentage of alanine aminotransferase activity released by hepatocytes in culture medium after an 18-hr incubation period. by comparison to normal hepatocytes, inflammatory hepatocytes were more resistant to the toxicity of neutrophils. at a neutrophil/hepatocyte ratio of 20:1, the alanine aminotransferase activity releases were 53.7% +/- 5.4% (mean +/- 1 s.e.) and 27.4% +/- 4.8% for normal and inflammatory hepatocytes, respectively. similarly, inflammatory hepatocytes were found to be less sensitive than normal hepatocytes to the toxic effect of purified neutrophil cathepsin g. in contrast, both types of hepatocytes exhibited the same sensitivity to h2o2 generated by a system consisting of glucose and glucose oxidase. two arguments suggested that the resistance of inflammatory hepatocytes to protease toxicity was explained by an increased production of antiproteases by these cells: (a) when tested against cathepsin g and porcine pancreatic elastase activities, the protease inhibitory capacity of conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes was higher than that of conditioned medium from normal hepatocytes; (b) conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes markedly reduced the toxicity of stimulated neutrophils as that of cathepsin g.
creutzfeldt-jakob disease in pituitary growth hormone recipients in the united states. to assess the magnitude of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) occurrence among recipients of pituitary-derived human growth hormone (hgh), we conducted an epidemiologic follow-up of 6284 recipients of hgh distributed through the national hormone and pituitary program. seven neuropathologically confirmed cases of cjd have occurred in this population to date: six patients with clinical cjd presented with ataxia and imbalance, rather than with altered mentation, which is the most common initial manifestation in sporadic cjd, and one patient died in the preclinical incubation state of the disease. all seven cases occurred among the nearly 700 hgh recipients who started therapy before 1970. since only 10% of the cohort has been followed up for the 15-year average incubation interval from midpoint of hgh treatment to onset of symptoms, the great majority of potentially exposed patients have not yet attained the requisite incubation period for expression of cjd. the median duration of hgh therapy of 100 months in the cjd cases was significantly longer than 41 months for all patients starting treatment before 1970; thus, the duration of pituitary hgh therapy is a major risk factor for cjd.
effect of motion artefact on pulse oximeters: evaluation of four instruments and finger probes. the ability of the ohmeda 3700, nellcor n200, datex satlite plus and simed s100 pulse oximeters to detect induced hypoxaemia in the presence of motion artefact was assessed, under conditions of controlled vibration using an industrial vibration facility. vibration at 4 hz and 8 hz induced increases in detection time for hypoxaemia and spurious decreases in the displayed sao2 in some of the oximeters tested. finger-dependent differences in oximeter performance and pulse rate registration were noted especially in those oximeters without ecg linkage (ohmeda 3700 and simed s100). subsequently, eight different pulse oximeter finger probes were assessed for those characteristics that may predispose to motion artefact. there were marked differences in the mass of the probes, the forces exerted on the test finger and in the force required to displace the probes from the subject's finger. differences in both the microprocessor programmes and the physical characteristics of the finger probes may explain the observed differences in function. similar studies should form part of the standard evaluation of new pulse oximeters.
efficacy of coronary sinus cardioplegia in patients with complete coronary artery occlusions. myocardial areas distal to complete coronary artery occlusions are poorly protected by antegrade cardioplegia. we assessed the effects of coronary sinus cardioplegia in 30 patients undergoing bypass operations and at high risk of cardioplegic maldistribution because of the following anatomical patterns of coronary artery disease: critical (greater than or equal to 50%) stenosis of the left main trunk with total occlusion of the right coronary artery (16 patients) or critical (greater than or equal to 70%) stenosis of the right coronary artery with total occlusion of the left anterior descending (11 patients) or circumflex artery (3 patients). after induction of arrest through the aorta, coronary sinus cardioplegia was given intermittently during the cross-clamp period at a flow rate of 100 ml/min. intraoperatively, occluded arteries were consistently found to be filled with the retrogradely infused solution. one patient died early postoperatively of low cardiac output and a second patient died later during his hospital stay, presumably of an arrhythmia. at autopsy, none of them had pathological evidence of inadequate myocardial protection. one patient sustained a myocardial infarction and 3 others required inotropes for more than 24 hours postoperatively. postoperative values for right and left stroke volume indices were not significantly different from prebypass levels. overall, these results are consistent with the occurrence of limited intraoperative ischemic damage and, by inference, suggest the efficacy of the coronary sinus route in preserving myocardial areas supplied by completely occluded coronary arteries and, hence, in jeopardy of inadequate cardioplegia delivery.
ability of calcium-entry blockade by felodipine to disclose different pathogenetic mechanisms behind hyperventilation-induced myocardial ischemia in men. to verify that myocardial ischemia occurring during either the overbreathing or recovery phase of the hyperventilation test is based on different pathogenetic mechanisms, 2 consecutive series of patients, selected on the basis of their response to a run-in hyperventilation test, were studied. group i comprised 15 patients who developed st-segment depression early during overbreathing, whereas group ii consisted of 12 patients showing st-segment depression late during the recovery phase. a single oral dose of felodipine 10 mg or of placebo was administered on 2 consecutive days according to a randomized, double-blind, crossover design, and the hyperventilation test was repeated, on both days of the study, 3 to 5 hours after drug intake. in group i, st-segment depression occurred after placebo in all patients during overbreathing, with an increase in rate pressure product (from 112 +/- 31 at baseline to 168 +/- 55 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of st-segment depression; p less than 0.01). after felodipine, 13 patients continued to show st-segment depression during overbreathing, together with an increase in rate pressure product (from 107 +/- 24 at baseline to 158 +/- 46 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of electrocardiographic changes; p less than 0.01). in group ii, all 12 patients showed st-segment depression during recovery after placebo, with a rate pressure product comparable to baseline conditions (112 +/- 35 at baseline vs 102 +/- 27 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of st-segment depression; difference not significant). after felodipine, no patient developed st-segment depression or chest pain.
pleomorphic (anaplastic) neuroblastoma in nude mice. two pleomorphic (anaplastic) neuroblastomas, from two children aged 1 and 6 years, were transplanted into nude mice. two noteworthy observations were made. in one case, the transplanted tumor gave rise to a soft-tissue sarcoma. moreover, in both cases hepatic metastases were associated with a striking modification of murine hepatocytes, resulting in hyperchromatic and dysplastic nuclei. the latter finding was particularly evident in the hepatic areas surrounding all metastases of pleomorphic (anaplastic) neuroblastoma cells.
hydroxychloroquine is effective therapy for control of cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas. cutaneous sarcoidosis often responds poorly to topical and intralesional corticosteroids but may respond to moderate to high doses of oral corticosteroids. to avoid the use of systemic corticosteroids, we treated 17 patients with cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas with hydroxychloroquine (2 to 3 mg/kg/day) in an open clinical trial. if response occurred, other medications were first tapered and then the hydroxychloroquine dosage was reduced or stopped. the cutaneous lesions of 12 patients regressed within 4 to 12 weeks, and they were able to stop other therapies; three patients had a partial response, and two patients had no regression. two of eight patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis improved. no ocular toxicity was noted.
long term survival and severe rebleeding after variceal sclerotherapy. of 197 consecutive patients with cirrhosis admitted because of bleeding from esophageal varices, 133 were included in a prospective study of elective sclerotherapy. we evaluated the incidence of extensive rebleeding and mortality rate. the period of study was 54 months and the mean follow-up period was 21 months. forty-one patients had severe rebleeding and a majority of the episodes occurred during the first year. only four patients had more than five sessions of sclerosis when rebleeding occurred. the probability rate for patients to be free of severe rebleeding after 48 months, according to pugh's classification, was 88 per cent for those with grade a, 50 percent for grade b and 43 percent for grade c. the over-all mortality rate was 38.8 per cent (53 patients), with the highest rate noted during the first year. the mortality rate of patients with severe rebleeding was much higher than that of those who did not rebleed. kaplan-meier survival analysis at four years was 52 per cent, and survival rates in relation to pugh's classification were 73 per cent for a, 53 per cent for b and 34 per cent for c. differences between the three groups were statistically significant. therefore, because of the high mortality rate associated with patients with cirrhosis and extensive rebleeding during the first year, it is important to achieve, as soon as possible, eradication of esophageal varices.
the role of aspiration cytologic examination in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast. a study of 2,000 patients who had undergone fine needle aspiration of a solid lump of the breast was conducted to determine the accuracy of this technique. during the period 1982 to 1989, all patients with a solid mammary mass, presenting to a specialized breast unit were initially investigated by fine needle aspiration cytologic examination (fnac). to date, we present data on 2,000 consecutive aspirations with matching histologic diagnosis on the excised pathologic specimens. in particular, the relationship between tumor histologic factors and the accuracy of cytologic diagnosis was examined. the sensitivity of fnac in the diagnosis of a malignant growth was 84 per cent; this represents first aspiration results only. the specificity was more than 99 per cent. the rate of acellular or unsatisfactory aspirations was 12 per cent. we had a positive predictive rate for diagnosis in carcinoma of the breast of almost 95 per cent. the diagnosis of lobular and in situ patterns of disease was questioned, with three of three in situ lesions and ten of 23 lobular lesions missed by fnac. we do not recommend that fnac replace excision biopsy and frozen section in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast.
results of a multicenter trial comparing imipenem/cilastatin to tobramycin/clindamycin for intra-abdominal infections. we designed a multicenter study to compare tobramycin/clindamycin to imipenem/cilastatin for intra-abdominal infections. we included the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache ii) index of severity and excluded patients without established infection. two hundred ninety patients were enrolled, of whom 162 were evaluable. using logistic regression to analyze both outcome at the abdominal site of infection and outcome as mortality, we found a significant correlation for both with apache ii score (p less than 0.0001 for both). next we analyzed the residual effect of treatment assignment and found a significant improvement in outcome for imipenem/cilastatin-treated patients (p = 0.043). the differences in outcome were explained by a higher failure rate for patients with gram-negative organisms for tobramycin/clindamycin-treated patients (p = 0.018). this was reflected in a significantly higher incidence of fasciitis requiring reoperation and prosthetic fascial replacement. maximum peak tobramycin levels were analyzed for 63 tobramycin/clindamycin patients harboring gram-negative organisms. for failures the maximum peak was 6.4 +/- 1.9 micrograms/ml, and time to maximum peak was 4.6 +/- 5.2 days. for successes the maximum peak was 6.1 +/- 1.7 micrograms/ml, occurring at 3.8 +/- 2.6 days. this study supports inclusion of severity scoring in statistical analyses of outcome results and supports the notion that imipenem/cilastatin therapy improves outcome at the intra-abdominal site of infection as compared to a conventionally prescribed amino-glycoside-based regimen.
protamine transcript sharing among postmeiotic spermatids. sharing of cytoplasmic constituents through intercellular bridges connecting postmeiotic spermatids can allow for functional equivalence of genetically nonequivalent spermatids. the technique of in situ hybridization was used to study postmeiotic distribution of transcripts from the mouse protamine 1 (prm-1) gene among spermatids of mice with chromosomally unbalanced gametes. the prm-1 gene is located on chromosome 16 and is expressed exclusively in haploid spermatids. mice doubly heterozygous for two robertsonian translocations involving chromosome 16 were used for the study of postmeiotic accumulation of transcripts of the prm-1 gene in spermatogenic cells. the meiotic segregation pattern of chromosomal homologues in these mice produces some spermatids that are chromosomally unbalanced; some spermatids lack chromosome 16 while others have two. in situ hybridization with a cdna probe for the prm-1 gene transcript performed on both whole testis sections and spermatogenic cell suspensions showed that there was no statistical difference in distribution of grains over step-5 to step-10 spermatids from robertsonian-translocation heterozygous mice and from control mice of normal karyotype. these results are consistent with sharing of transcripts of the prm-1 gene among spermatids within a syncytium.
image cytophotometric dna analysis of atypical hyperplasias and intraductal carcinomas of the breast. with the use of image analysis, dna content was quantified on paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 25 atypical hyperplasias and 35 intraductal carcinomas of the breast by comparison of integrated gray levels of feulgen-stained control and ductal cell nuclei. the mean full-peak (g0/g1) control cell dna histogram coefficient of variation was 5.5%. dna aneuploidy was more common in intraductal carcinomas compared with atypical hyperplasias (71% of intraductal carcinomas vs 36% of atypical hyperplasias) and correlated with a lack of cytologic (nuclear) and architectural differentiation (63% moderate vs 93% poor and 38% cribriform vs 82% solid). in addition, multiple dna stemlines were observed in 40% of intraductal carcinomas. we conclude that (1) some atypical hyperplasias demonstrate abnormal dna content consistent with neoplastic transformation, (2) aggressive forms of intraductal carcinoma are more frequently associated with dna content abnormalities, and (3) frequent dna stemline heterogeneity in intraductal carcinoma supports the hypothesis that multiple genetic events occur in the development of mammary intraepithelial neoplasia.
late development of a squamous carcinoma in a reconstructed pharynx. we report a case in which a squamous cell carcinoma was found to have arisen from a delto-pectoral skin flap used in pharyngeal reconstruction. the flap had been forming a neo-pharynx for 24 years. no other signs of recurrent disease had developed in this period. this raises the possibility of tumour induction in heterotopic skin used for oropharyngeal reconstruction.
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for the circulatory support of children after repair of congenital heart disease. we have treated 39 infants and children with congenital heart disease with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during the past 5 years. thirty-six were treated for low cardiac output or pulmonary vasoreactive crisis after repair of congenital heart defects. twenty-two (61%) survived. most patients were cannulated from the neck via the right internal jugular vein and the right common carotid artery. six patients were cannulated from the chest, including three who had separate drainage of the left side of the heart with a left atrial cannula. two of these patients survived and were the only survivors of the nine patients cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass after open cardiac operations. we also reviewed 312 patients (the predictor study series) having open cardiac operations before the availability of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation; 27 of these patients died. data were collected at 1 and 8 hours postoperatively to determine if any parameters might predict early mortality. with these parameters used as criteria, patients who went on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation were as sick as those who died before extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was available. the most common complication was bleeding related to heparinization. the mean transfusion requirement in survivors was 1.50 +/- 1.13 ml/kg/hr, 5.63 +/- 7.0 ml/kg/hr in the nonsurvivors, and 7.46 +/- 8.29 ml/kg/hr in those cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from bypass. four children had intracranial hemorrhage, and two of them died. there was one late death. nine of the 22 survivors are entirely normal. all survivors who do not have down's syndrome are considered to have normal central nervous system function. we conclude that extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can improve survival in patients with both pulmonary artery hypertension and low cardiac output after operations for congenital heart disease.
diagnostic value of ventricular stimulation in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. to assess the response to programmed ventricular stimulation and the clinical outcome, we performed a prospective study in 103 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. the protocol used up to three extrastimuli delivered at two right ventricular sites during sinus rhythm and ventricular pacing at 100 and 150 beats/min and was repeated during infusion of 1 to 4 micrograms/min of isoproterenol. sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt) was induced in 8 of 11 patients with spontaneous sustained vt, in none of 35 patients without significant ventricular arrhythmias during holter monitoring, and in 9 of 56 patients with salvos of ventricular premature beats. isoproterenol infusion facilitated the induction of two episodes of sustained vt in patients with spontaneous sustained vt; however, in all but one of the remaining patients, induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias was not impaired. during the follow-up period there were eight sudden deaths among patients who initially had syncope, inducible sustained vt, or both and three episodes of sustained vt in patients who initially had nonsustained vt but inducible sustained vt. isoproterenol infusion can be used to safely facilitate induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. the induction of sustained vt was associated with a poor prognosis.
melanoma and soft tissue sarcoma in seven patients. seven patients with both melanoma and sarcoma were seen at the dana farber cancer institute (boston, ma) over a 4-year period. three had additional malignant neoplasms; one of these patients also had the hereditary cutaneous malignant melanoma, dysplastic nevus syndrome. these observations suggest the possibility of a biologic relationship between melanoma and sarcoma, the nature of which remains unknown.
can the blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding? we wanted to know if the blood urea nitrogen to creatinine (bun/cr) ratio could help distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding. we analyzed retrospectively patients admitted to our hospital for gastrointestinal bleeding over the past 5 years. a total of 126 patients represented 74 upper bleeds and 52 lower bleeds. the mean bun/cr ratio was significantly higher in upper than lower bleeders, 34.8 and 17.8 respectively (p less than 0.001). no lower bleeder had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36, whereas 38% of upper bleeders had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36. the bun/cr ratio may be an easy, cheap method of distinguishing upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding in some cases. a bun/cr ratio of greater than or equal to 36 suggests upper gastrointestinal bleeding, whereas a ratio of less than 36 is not helpful in locating the source of bleeding.
short-term tamoxifen plus chemotherapy: superior results in node-positive breast cancer. three hundred eleven patients with node-positive breast cancer were randomized to one of three adjuvant treatments: cyclophosphamide (cytoxan), methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil; all of the above with tamoxifen citrate; or all of the above with tamoxifen and bacillus calmette-guerin vaccination. local therapy for all patients was a modified radical mastectomy. estrogen receptors were measured on all primary tumors. patients were stratified by the number of positive nodes (one to three nodes and more than three nodes) and estrogen-receptor value (less than 3 femtomole/mg and greater than or equal to 3 femtomole/mg). follow-up is available, with a mean of 9.1 and maximum of 14.2 years. in this study the efficacy of short-term tamoxifen is apparent over that of chemoimmunotherapy alone and continues to be significant with prolonged follow-up. the addition of tamoxifen to chemoimmunotherapy significantly prolonged disease-free survival among patients with estrogen receptor-positive tumors who were postmenopausal, who had larger tumors (greater than 3 cm), or who had more extensive axillary node involvement (more than three nodes). tamoxifen improved overall survival for patients with estrogen receptor-positive tumors larger than 3 cm. the addition of bacillus calmette-guerin cytoxan, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, and tamoxifen did not significantly alter disease-free or overall survival.
acceleration of scrapie in trisomy 16----diploid aggregation chimeras. we studied the susceptibility to prion infection of the trisomy 16----diploid chimeric mouse, a putative model of down syndrome. when weanling chimeras were inoculated intracerebrally with scrapie prions, the time until appearance of the first symptoms of scrapie was reduced by 17 days (from a mean control time of 153 days) and the time to death was reduced by 30 days (from control time of 170 days). our results with trisomy 16 chimeras argue that the susceptibility to central nervous system degeneration caused by prions can be modulated by chromosome imbalance.
prevalence of spontaneous hepatofugal portal flow in liver cirrhosis. clinical and endoscopic correlation in 228 patients. the prevalence of spontaneous reversal of flow in the portal venous system was non invasively evaluated by doppler ultrasound in 228 patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. reversed flow was detected in the portal vein in 7 patients (3.1%), in the splenic vein in 7 patients (3.1%), and in the superior mesenteric vein in 5 patients (2.1%), with an overall prevalence of 8.3% (19/228). this prevalence did not differ in relation to the etiology of liver cirrhosis, whereas hepatofugal flow was found in more patients classified as child's c (15.4%) and b (12.5%) than those classified as child's a (2.7%) (p less than 0.02) and was associated with a higher frequency of hepatic encephalopathy (21% vs. 7.2%; p less than 0.05). endoscopic evaluation of esophageal varices did not reveal any correlation between the presence and size of varices and hepatofugal flow, whereas red signs were detected more frequently in patients with this hemodynamic pattern (42.1% vs. 24.4%; ns). the rate of previous variceal bleeding was not significantly different in patients with and without hepatofugal flow (30.8% vs. 24.4%; ns). conversely, the prospective evaluation of 15 patients with hepatofugal flow and 29 matched patients with hepatopetal flow, derived from the group of 228 patients, followed up for a period of 12-18 months, showed that variceal bleeding occurred in 9 of 29 patients with hepatopetal flow and in none of the 15 patients with hepatofugal flow (p less than 0.02). however, no statistical difference was found in the survival rates. this study indicates that the actual prevalence of reversed flow in the portal, splenic, and superior mesenteric veins in a nonselected cirrhotic population is 8.3%. from a clinical point of view, the data suggest that this finding might be considered an important prognostic factor because, while occurring in cirrhotic patients with more severe functional impairment, it might play a protective role against the risk of bleeding.
human macrophage colony-stimulating factor induces macrophage colonies after l-phenylalanine methylester treatment of human marrow. macrophage-colony stimulating factor (m-csf) has well-known effects on murine bone marrow, but its colony stimulating activity for human bone marrow is controversial. after treatment of human bone marrow with l-phenylalanine methylester (pme), macrophage-colonies (cfu-m) were induced by m-csf in a dose-dependent fashion. the optimal concentration of recombinant human-macrophage colony stimulating factor (rhm-csf) was 1,000 u/ml. purified human urine m-csf had colony stimulating activity similar to rhm-csf. further studies were performed to determine the factors responsible for the enhanced cfu-m formation from pme treated marrow. compared with nylon wool and carbonyl iron monocyte depletion methods, pme eliminated significantly more monocytes and myeloid cells. this observation suggested that these cells may release hematopoietic inhibitory factors for cfu-m. low concentrations (1%) but not normal (10%) concentrations of blood monocytes were inhibitory (mean inhibition, 48%) to cfu-m. high concentrations of monocytes (50%) augmented cfu-m colonies. hl-60 conditioned media was used to simulate secretory products of early myeloid cells. hl-60 conditioned media (1%) inhibited cfu-m formation but not granulocyte macrophage or granulocyte colonies. we conclude that m-csf has colony stimulating activity for human marrow that can be recognized after removal of inhibitory cells by pme treatment.
nonorganizational religious participation among elderly black adults. this study investigated rates of participation in nonorganizational religious activities of elderly black adults. four indicators of participation were examined: reading religious materials, watching or listening to religious programs, prayer, and requests for prayer. demographic, religious denomination, and health disability factors influenced participation in these behaviors. the findings were discussed for their implications for the development of a multidimensional conceptualization of religiosity.
effect of antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy on patency of femorotibial bypass grafts. in a retrospective study, 210 autogenous femorotibial saphenous vein grafts inserted during the 15 years from 1967 to 1982 were followed-up for a mean period of 62.3 +/- 5.7 months. seven patients, who had had eight grafts died in hospital. the remaining 202 grafts fell into three groups: (1) sixty grafts in patients who received 325 mg of dipyridamole and 1.0 g of acetylsalicylic acid daily, starting on the second postoperative day and continuing for six months. (2) one hundred and two grafts in patients on no antithrombotic therapy. (3) forty grafts in patients on warfarin therapy to maintain the prothrombin time (prothrombin-proconvertin method) within the therapeutic range (0.10 to 0.20). medication was continued for six months. this group included more high-risk patients than the other two groups. the mean ages and the incidence of risk factors did not vary significantly between the groups. the patency rates in three groups at five years were 62.5%, 44.0% and 26.0% and at ten years 48.5%, 25.0% and 21.5% for the dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid, no therapy and warfarin groups, respectively. the limb salvage rates were 100%, 96% and 85% in the dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid, no therapy and warfarin groups respectively. thus, the best results were seen in the aspirin/dipyridamole group.
efficacy of ephedrine in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. although reported in the aerospace literature and anecdotally by anesthesiologists, the putative antiemetic effect of ephedrine remains unquantitated. we therefore prospectively studied ephedrine as an antiemetic agent in the perioperative setting in 97 patients undergoing general anesthesia for outpatient gynecologic laparoscopy. patients were assigned in a double-blind randomized fashion to receive a standardized general anesthetic followed by an intramuscular dose of either ephedrine (0.5 mg/kg), droperidol (0.04 mg/kg), or saline before the conclusion of surgery. nausea, retching, or vomiting, as well as the degree of sedation and discharge times, were assessed in the recovery room and for 24 h postoperatively. ephedrine was found to have a significantly antiemetic effect (p less than 0.05) when compared with placebo and an antiemetic effect similar to that of droperidol. sedation scores were also significantly less in the ephedrine group than in both placebo and droperidol groups. finally, variations in mean arterial blood pressure among the three groups were not statistically significant. we conclude that ephedrine is an effective antiemetic agent with minimal sedative side effects in patients undergoing outpatient laparoscopy.
early and frequent detection of hbxag and/or anti-hbx in hepatitis b virus infection. to clarify the significance of the x gene of hepatitis b virus, we have tested for anti-hbx in the serum and hbxag in the liver at different stages of the natural history of hepatitis b virus infection. sera were screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and positive results confirmed by immunoblot. purified recombinant ms2 pol-hbx fusion protein was used as target for both assays. among serial sera of patients with nonfulminant acute hepatitis, 24 of 64 patients (37.5%) were positive for anti-hbx. in fulminant cases, 15 of 36 patients (42%) had anti-hbx. in chronic hepatitis patients with high rates of hepatitis b virus replication, we found a significantly (p less than 0.01) higher prevalence of anti-hbx, 14 of 25 patients (56%), than in those with low replication, 14 of 66 patients (21%), or among asymptomatic hbsag carrier blood donors (20 of 126 = 16%) without detectable hepatitis b virus replication (p less than 0.0001). the highest prevalence of anti-hbx was found in hbsag carriers with cirrhosis (41 of 54 patients = 76%) and/or with hepatocellular carcinoma (18 of 33 patients = 54%). the findings suggest that anti-hbx appears as a common and early marker of hepatitis b virus infection, transient in self-limited hepatitis but persisting with progression to chronicity. in chronic hepatitis, the prevalence of anti-hbx correlated with the intensity and duration of hepatitis b virus replication but neither with the severity of the liver disease nor with malignant transformation per se.
hemangioma of the temporalis muscle. a rare case of an intramuscular hemangioma of the temporalis muscle is reported. the clinical examination, carotid arteriogram, computed tomographic scan, and aspiration cytology suggested the vascular nature of the tumor, but an exact diagnosis could only be made after histopathologic examination. temporary occlusion of the ipsilateral external carotid artery and subperiosteal dissection permitted complete, wide excision without much bleeding.
different patterns of gene expression in ras-resistant and ras-sensitive cells. we have shown previously that nontumorigenic nih 3t3 cells can be made tumorigenic and metastatic by transfection and expression of activated ras, whereas in lta cells, which are tumorigenic but nonmetastatic, the degree of malignancy is not altered by ras. to investigate possible mechanisms of natural ras resistance, we compared the expression patterns of several genes thought to be involved in ras-induced metastatic progression in lta (ras-resistant) and nih 3t3 (ras-sensitive) cells, before and after constitutive expression of transfected t24-h-ras. we examined the expression of the nuclear "early-response" genes jun and fos and the "tumor-suppressor" retinoblastoma (rb) gene, as well as genes involved in invasion (major excreted protein [mep], tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases [timp]), and cell adhesion (secreted phosphoprotein 1 [spp1; also known as osteopontin]). we found distinct differences in both the basal and ras-induced levels of expression of most of these genes in lta versus nih 3t3 cells. high levels of mep and low levels of timp were induced in ras-transfected nih 3t3 cells, whereas lta cells showed intermediate levels of mep and high levels of timp that were only marginally affected by the expression of transfected ras. similarly, spp1 expression was strongly induced by ras in nih 3t3 cells but was repressed by ras in lta cells. enzymogram assays for functional gelatinase activity showed an increase in 67-kd and 62-kd bands in nih 3t3 cells in the presence of ras. lta cells showed no gelatinolytic activity in the presence or absence of ras. data from an in vitro assay for chemoinvasiveness showed a pattern as predicted from the expression of invasion-related genes; chemoinvasiveness in ras-transfected nih 3t3 was greater than in lta and ras-transfected lta cells, which was greater than in nih 3t3 cells. differences in expression of the genes examined are believed to contribute to the ras responsiveness of nih 3t3 cells and the ras resistance of lta cells.
open depressed skull fracture missed on computed tomography: a case report. a case of an open depressed skull fracture that was missed on standard computed tomographic (ct) scan is presented. the fracture was seen on a ct generated lateral scout film, and after repositioning the gantry, further ct images clearly showed the fracture and underlying brain injury. the authors recommend that all patients with head trauma undergoing head ct have either a ct generated lateral scout film or a lateral skull radiograph to assess the vertex of the skull, an area poorly visualized on standard axial images.
deficiency of complex iii of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in a patient with facioscapulohumeral disease. facioscapulohumeral disease (fshd), an inherited neuromuscular disorder, is characterized by progressive wasting of specific muscle groups, particularly the proximal musculature of the upper limbs; the primary defect in this disorder is unknown. we studied a patient with fshd to determine whether the mitochondrial respiratory chain was functionally abnormal. muscle biopsy revealed fiber atrophy with patchy staining for oxidative enzymes. electron microscopy of a liver section showed many enlarged mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions. decreased oxidation of the respiratory substrates-alanine and succinate-in skin fibroblasts suggested a deficiency of complex iii of the electron-transport chain; cytochrome c oxidase activity (complex iv) was in the normal range. biochemical analysis of liver supported the fibroblast data, since succinate oxidase activity (electron-transport activity through complexes ii-iv) was reduced, whereas complex iv activity was normal. furthermore, analysis of the cytochrome spectrum in liver revealed typical peaks for cytochromes cc1 and aa3, whereas cytochrome b (a component of complex iii) was undetectable. southern blot analysis of fibroblast mtdna revealed no major deletions or rearrangements. our study provides the first documentation of a specific enzyme-complex deficiency associated with fshd.
anticardiolipin antibodies: a study of frequency in tia and stroke. we undertook a prospective study of consecutive patients to determine the frequency of elevated igg and igm anticardiolipin antibodies in transient ischemic attack and ischemic stroke and found elevated igg antibodies in 8.2% (9 of 110) and igm in 9.1% (10 of 110), only the former being significantly greater than in a healthy control population. we suggest that anticardiolipin screening be concentrated on the young.
new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. their role in the management of hypertension. the introduction of orally active angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors has revolutionized the treatment of hypertensive disorders and provided an effective alternative for the management of congestive heart failure (chf). by interfering with the formation of angiotensin ii, the active agent of the renin system, ace inhibitors block the system's vasoconstrictive and sodium-retaining effects, with a consequent reduction in systemic blood pressure. the net effect is improved blood flow and reduced cardiac work. thus, ace inhibitors are likely to improve cardiac work capacity and quality of life. their mechanism of action differs markedly from that of traditional antihypertensive agents which lower blood pressure while reducing cardiac output and blood flow. since the primary action of ace inhibitors is to block the renin system, a dramatic response to monotherapy suggests a large renin factor while the lack of a response suggests a low-renin state more amenable to treatment with a diuretic or calcium antagonist. because of their many attributes, ace inhibitors are increasingly used as first-line therapy for the treatment of hypertension or chf. the prototype orally active ace inhibitor, captopril, is a sulfhydryl compound with a good safety profile at the recommended dosages but reported toxicity at higher dosages. second-generation ace inhibitors (eg, enalapril and quinapril) are more potent sulfhydryl-free esters with a greater affinity for the converting enzyme. these newer agents are pro-drugs requiring ester hydrolysis to form the active free acid compound.
electrocardiographic and antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous amiodarone: results of a prospective, placebo-controlled study. the antiarrhythmic efficacy of intravenously administered amiodarone was examined in a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled study that involved 77 patients after coronary artery bypass surgery. amiodarone was given after surgery in a loading bolus of 300 mg for 2 hours followed by 1200 mg every 24 hours for 2 days and 900 mg every 24 hours for the next 2 days. amiodarone suppressed both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias within 12 hours after the start of therapy. particularly, the incidence of atrial fibrillation (5% vs 21% in the control group; p less than 0.05) and of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (3% vs 16%; p less than 0.05) was reduced by amiodarone. heart rate was slowed (p less than 0.001) and repolarization--as judged by jtc interval--was prolonged compared with the control group (p less than 0.01). in two patients, amiodarone infusion was stopped because of excessive qtc prolongation. no detrimental hemodynamic effects of the drug were observed. thus the intravenous administration of amiodarone appears to be suitable for patients in whom rapid suppression of symptomatic supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias is warranted in the presence of left ventricular dysfunction.
is it correct to correct? developmental milestones in 555 "normal" preterm infants compared with term infants. to determine whether correction for preterm birth should be applied during developmental assessment, we conducted a prospective national survey of very premature infants (born at less than 32 weeks of gestation); neurodevelopment in the first 2 years was studied with the dutch child health care developmental assessment. in 555 preterm children who had no evidence of handicap at 2 years of age, the age at which developmental milestones were reached was established. the results were compared with the results of the same assessment in dutch children born at term. during the first year, the development of the very premature children equaled the development of normal children when full correction was applied. at 2 years of age, development was equal to or better than normal children's development without correction. we conclude that full correction for prematurity should be applied in the first year to avoid overreferral for developmental stimulation, whereas at 2 years of age correction is not necessary.
the effect of ca and mg supplementation and the role of the opioidergic system on the development of doca-salt hypertension. the effect of calcium and magnesium supplementation and the role of opioidergic system was examined in deoxycorticosterone acetate (doca)-salt hypertensive rats. the rats were divided into four groups receiving standard laboratory rat diet (control group; n = 9); a calcium-rich diet with 2% cacl2 added (ca-group; n = 12); a magnesium-rich diet with 0.5% mgo added (mg-group; n = 11); and a calcium and magnesium-rich diet with 2% cacl2 and 0.5% mgo added (ca/mg-group; n = 11); each diet contained 7% nacl. after four weeks on these diets, the rats were decapitated and blood was obtained for the measurement of plasma electrolytes, intraerythrocyte sodium, potassium and magnesium content (rbc-na, -k, in meq/l cells and rbc-mg, in mg/dl cells) and plasma beta-endorphin concentration (beta-end, in pg/ml). in the control group, systolic blood pressure and rbc-na were obviously higher than in the other groups. plasma beta-endorphin concentration was 45.1 +/- 13.4 in the control group, 70.7 +/- 17.4 in the ca-group (p less than .05 v control group), 58.0 +/- 20.1 in the mg-group and 83.8 +/- 24.8 in the ca/mg-group (p less than .01 v control group). the blood pressure correlated significantly with both rbc-na (r = 0.416, p less than .01) and beta-end (r = 0.436, p less than .005). a negative correlation was also observed between rbc-na and beta-end (r = 0.437, p less than .005).
remission of precancerous lesions in the oral cavity of tobacco chewers and maintenance of the protective effect of beta-carotene or vitamin a. participants in the intervention trials were fishermen (kerala, india), who chewed tobacco-containing betel quids daily before and throughout the study period. frequency of oral leukoplakia, micronuclei in oral mucosal cells, and alterations in nuclear textures were used as endpoints. administration of vitamin a (60 mg/wk) for 6-mo resulted in complete remission of leukoplakias in 57% and a reduction of micronucleated cells in 96% of tobacco-chewers. beta-carotene (2.2 mmol/wk) induced remission of leukoplakia in 14.8% and reduction of micronucleated cells in 98%. vitamin a completely suppressed and beta-carotene suppressed by 50% formation of new leukoplakia within the 6-mo trial period. after withdrawal of vitamin a or beta-carotene treatment, oral leukoplakias reappeared, frequency of micronuclei in oral mucosa increased, and nuclear textures reverted to those present before the administration of chemo-preventive agents. the protective effect of the original treatment could be maintained for at least 8 additional months by administration of lower doses of vitamin a or beta-carotene.
colonic stenoses: use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies. forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations, without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction, were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session. all patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination. the authors describe the technique, as well as the clinical and radiologic findings, that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon. in all patients, oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes, with no complications. in seven patients, there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel, and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients. if a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon, additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium. this practice is safe if precise criteria are applied.
iliac versus cranial bone for secondary grafting of residual alveolar clefts. secondary bone grafting of the maxilla in the mixed transitional dentition stage has become a well-accepted procedure in the surgical protocol for rehabilitation of patients with residual alveolar clefts. this retrospective study was undertaken to evaluate and compare the long-term results obtained with iliac or cranial cancellous bone graft material in the area of alveolar clefts and was based on the independent experience of two plastic surgeons from the same center using exclusively cranial or iliac cancellous bone, respectively. the criteria for surgery were similar. the surgical technique, with the exception of the bone-grafting material, also was similar, and all patients were treated by the same group of orthodontists. fifteen patients from each group, from a total of over 100 patients, were randomly selected and included in the study. all patients were followed up from 18 to 60 months. operative and perioperative parameters, donor-site morbidity, and long-term results were evaluated, compared, and analyzed. there were no significant differences between the two groups, and equally good results in terms of bone incorporation, tooth eruption, and appearance were obtained with both iliac and cranial bone grafts. we conclude from our study that successful bone grafting is primarily achieved by adherence to meticulous surgical technique, simultaneous closure of coexisting oronasal or palatal fistulae, use of cancellous bone particles only, and coverage of the grafts with well-vascularized flaps. the source of bone graft does not seem to primarily influence the success of the outcome.
ureterosigmoidostomy: long-term results, risk of carcinoma and etiological factors for carcinogenesis. we followed postoperatively 75 patients who underwent ureterosigmoidostomy between 1942 and 1987. of the patients 30 were asked to undergo routine examination, including fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy with biopsy and analysis of a urine-feces slurry for nitrate, nitrite and nitrosamines in comparison to 20 control volunteers. after a mean observation of 14 years 7 months (1 to 46 years) 64.5% of the patients had bilaterally normal kidneys without any previous complications, 77.5% of the renal units being normal. sigmoidoscopic biopsy revealed 3 carcinomas at the ureterocolonic junction resulting in an 8.5 to 10.5-fold increased risk of colon carcinoma compared to the general population. the excretion of nitrite and n-nitrosamines was increased, and nitrate excretion was decreased compared to healthy control volunteers, suggesting endogenous formation of nitrosamines by bacterially reduced nitrate and endogenous amines. the urological long-term results of ureterosigmoidostomy are similar to those of conduits. however, the increased incidence of colon carcinoma is not yet proved to be higher than in conduits.
adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung. two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma. no other known precipitants were evident. the adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors. tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases.
receptors for epidermal growth factor and steroid hormones in primary laryngeal tumors. the authors investigated the presence of epidermal growth factor (egf-r), estrogen (er), progesterone (pr), and androgen (ar) receptors in 42 laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas and 20 normal laryngeal mucosa specimens. egf-r were expressed in all tumor specimens analyzed, with significantly higher levels in tumor samples compared with normal mucosa (p less than 0.05). the immunohistochemical study demonstrated the presence of egf-r in basal and parabasal cells of normal mucosa and in most of the cancer cells. there was no correlation between egf-r and tumor localization or t classification. on the other hand, the authors did find an interesting correlation between egf-r levels and grading, egf-r levels being significantly higher in g3 than in g1-g2 tumors. moreover, the three patients whose tumors expressed the highest egf-r levels had disease recur within 8 months. among tumor specimens, 9.5%, 35.7%, and 9.5% expressed very low but detectable er, pr, and ar levels, respectively. no statistically significant difference was found between the levels of steroid receptors in the tumor and normal mucosa specimens, and neither was there any correlation of er, pr, and ar with the pathologic findings. the authors' results suggest that the egf-r system may play a role in regulating the growth of laryngeal cancer. additional studies should demonstrate whether, as in other tumor types, egf-r expression may have prognostic significance in human laryngeal cancer.
ligation of the superficial femoral vein in prevention of pulmonary embolism: an old fashion procedure? from 1974 to 1988, interruption of the superficial femoral vein (sfv) was performed to prevent pulmonary embolism (pe) in 73 patients. the mean age of the patients was 62 years. phlebography showed thrombi in the following localizations: calf veins (67.3%), superficial femoral or popliteal veins (56.6%), common femoral veins (19.5%) and iliac veins (2.7%). a floating thrombus in the popliteal or femoral vein was the main indication for surgery in 97.3% of patients. pulmonary embolism had occurred in 76.7% and was associated with neoplasm in 13.7%. ligation of the sfv was performed in 93 limbs and completed iliac or femoral thrombectomy in 32.3%. the procedure was performed under locoregional anesthesia in 82.9% of the cases. hospital mortality was 1.4% and 3 year survival, considering only pe related deaths was 95.3 +/- 2.7%. follow-up was complete for all patients and averaged 3.0 years, for a 3 years pe-free rate of 90.8 +/- 3.6%. persistent symptoms included increased limb tenseness in 12.5% and mild ankle edema in 25%. bilateral strain-gauge plethysmography (sgp) was obtained in 65 limbs. the time necessary to obtain a 50, 75 and 100% decrease in calf volume (respectively t1/2, t3/4 and tt) was calculated for the operated limb and compared with the untreated limbs used as controls. a prolongation of t1/2 from 2.5 +/- 0.3 sec in controls to 4.3 +/- 0.4 sec in the operated limb (p less than 0.01) was found. thus, our experience with ligation of the superficial femoral vein is favourable since long-term ill effects have been minimal and strain gauge plethysmography (sgp) showed only mildly altered venous drainage.
coronary pathology predicts conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting. conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting may result from compromised septal blood flow. to examine this hypothesis we reviewed the preoperative coronary angiography of 55 consecutive patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. thirty-five patients had either no lesion or a discrete lesion in the left anterior descending coronary artery that did not include the septal perforator (type i anatomy). twenty patients had a lesion of the left anterior descending coronary artery at the origin of the first septal branch, a lesion of the first septal artery, or a pair of lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that straddled the origin of the first septal artery; all lesions were proximal to the graft site (type ii anatomy). none of the patients with type i anatomy had a major conduction disturbance after coronary artery bypass grafting. eleven of the patients with type ii anatomy had major conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting; right bundle-branch block in 1, right bundle-branch block and left anterior hemiblock in 2, left bundle-branch block in 5, and complete atrioventricular block that required pacemaker implantation in 3 (p less than 0.001). in the 20 patients with type ii anatomy, the appearance of conduction disturbances correlated well with the absence of retrograde flow to the septal branches from the right coronary artery (p less than 0.01). pathological lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that compromise flow in the first perforator and that do not provide an adequate circulation produce localized damage and conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting. this can be predicted from the preoperative angiographic anatomy.
improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction. in previous studies, we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ([99mtc]ida) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis, except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree. in this study, we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction (hef) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [99mtc]ida. our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone, but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease (ihd). the purpose of this study was to compare the hef in patients with profound cholestasis (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl) due to either ihd or common bile duct obstruction (cbdo). normal subjects (n = 13) had an hef of 100%. patients with cbdo (n = 13) had slightly reduced hef values (92.8 +/- 3.2%) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia (6.1 +/- 1.0 mg/dl). patients with ihd (n = 23) had a markedly reduced hef (43.1 +/- 4.1%) which was significantly lower than patients with cbdo and normal subjects (p less than 0.001). we conclude that the determination of the hef during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl).
an objective method for the assessment of psychosocial problems in adolescents with epilepsy. psychosocial problems in adolescents with epilepsy have been of concern for many years, but have been difficult to assess. this article presents the multicenter development of the adolescent psychosocial seizure inventory (apsi), an empirically based self-report test patterned after the washington psychosocial seizure inventory, which is used to evaluate psychosocial problems in adults. after pilot work, 120 adolescents with epilepsy from five centers in north america took the apsi and were interviewed by professionals with respect to adequacy of adjustment in eight psychosocial areas. at least one parent or guardian was also interviewed. interrater reliability of professional ratings in each area was established. using an item-by-item, empirically based technique, eight psychosocial scales were developed as well as three validity scales. reliability of the scales was established by both internal consistency and test-retest procedures. results for each adolescent are presented in profile form. these results give a visual display of the types and extent of problems that likely would be identified in a detailed professional assessment. it is anticipated that the apsi will be of value in a variety of treatment and research contexts.
loss of heterozygosity on chromosomes 17 and 18 in breast carcinoma: two additional regions identified. the loss of heterozygosity (loh) at specific regions of the human genome in tumor dna is recognized as evidence for a tumor-suppressor gene located within the corresponding region of the homologous chromosome. restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of a panel of primary human breast tumor dnas has led to the identification of two additional regions on chromosomes 17q and 18q that frequently are affected by loh. deletions of each of these regions have a significant correlation with clinical parameters that are associated with aggressive breast carcinomas. previous restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of this panel of tumors has uncovered several other frequently occurring mutations. loh on chromosome 18q frequently occurs in tumors with concomitant loh of loci on chromosomes 17p and 11p. similarly, tumors having loh on 17q also have loh on chromosomes 1p and 3p. this suggests that certain combinations of mutations may collaborate in the development and malignant progression of breast carcinomas.
prospective study of the frequency and size distribution of polyps missed by colonoscopy. an important determinant in interpreting the results of colorectal polyp chemoprevention trials is the rate of polyps missed during colonscopic examination. we prospectively examined 90 patients by tandem colonoscopy performed by two alternating examiners. in 69 (76.7%) patients, 221 neoplastic lesions were documented histologically. of a total of 58 lesions detected in 31 patients, no neoplastic lesion greater than or equal to 10 mm in size was missed; 16% of diminutive (less than or equal to 5 mm) neoplastic polyps and 12.3% of medium-sized (6-9 mm) neoplastic polyps were missed by the first examiner. we conclude that an experienced colonoscopist will miss about 15% of colorectal neoplastic polyps less than 10 mm in size in the setting of adequate bowel preparation. large (greater than or equal to 10 mm) polyps were rarely missed, however, with the "miss" rate in our study equal to 0, with a 95% confidence limit of 4.64%.
the epidemiology of inflammatory bowel disease: a large, population-based study in sweden. previous population-based incidence studies of inflammatory bowel disease are limited by small numbers, short duration, or inadequate case-finding. to address these problems, we identified all persons with confirmed ulcerative colitis (n = 2509) or crohn's disease (n = 1469) in the uppsala health care region from 1965 to 1983. age-specific incidence rates by sex were slightly greater for males with ulcerative colitis and females with crohn's disease. incidence rates for ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease were higher in urban than rural areas. the annual incidence rate of ulcerative colitis increased from less than 7 per 100,000 to more than 12 per 100,000 during the study period, while the rate for crohn's disease remained between 5 and 7 per 100,000. the increase in the incidence of ulcerative colitis was the result of a marked increase in the number of patients with ulcerative proctitis. analyses by 5-year birth cohorts suggest that those born from 1945 through 1954 were at higher risk for ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease, and that this effect was accounted for by those born in the first half of the year. the seasonality in the cohort effect, combined with the urban preponderance of disease, suggests that environmental causes may be involved in ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease.
long-term follow-up of the ileoanal anastomosis in children and young adults. the purpose of this study was to carry out a long-term study of the ileoanal anastomosis (iaa) in children and young adults, comparing the straight iaa to the j pouch. one hundred twenty-one young people who had undergone iaa were studied, with 114 available for long-term follow-up. one hundred one were 18 years and under. forty-nine patients had a straight iaa and 72 had a j-pouch reservoir. there were no deaths. after surgery, three children had intraabdominal sepsis and one had pelvic sepsis, but it did not lead to excision of the iaa. the mean stool frequency in all 114 patients was 5.0 +/- 2.5 per day and 1.2 +/- 1.1 at night. the mean number of stools for the straight iaa was 6 per day and 2.1 at night. the mean number of stools for the straight iaa with balloon dilations was 5.8 per day and 1.2 at night, and for the j pouch it was 4 per day and 1 at night. patients with both the j pouch and straight iaa had good to excellent sensation, with patients with the j pouch always able to distinguish flatus from stool in 87% of patients and almost always in 13%. daytime continence was very good in both groups. moderate nighttime loss of stool occurred in 10 patients, 6 with a straight iaa and 4 with a j pouch. ninety-five percent of the 114 patients were satisfied or very satisfied, with most children with a j pouch very satisfied. the j pouch remains the procedure of choice in young people.
thermal balance and tremor patterns during epidural anesthesia. five healthy, nonpregnant volunteers were studied before and after induction of lumbar epidural anesthesia to determine the cause of central hypothermia during epidural anesthesia. cutaneous heat loss was measured from 10 area-weighted sites using thermal flux transducers. oxygen consumption was measured and converted to heat production in watts (w). after a 2-h control period at approximately 20 degrees c, epidural anesthesia was induced by injection of 30-50 ml 3% chloroprocaine. additional boluses were given to extend the sensory blockade to at least the t5 dermatome. tremor during epidural anesthesia was compared with normal shivering induced by rapid central venous infusion of approximately 4 l iced saline in six unanesthetized volunteers. average skin temperature and cutaneous heat loss decreased during the control period, while tympanic membrane temperature remained stable. during the 1st h of epidural blockade, tympanic membrane temperature decreased 1.1 +/- 0.3 degrees c, and average skin temperature increased 0.9 +/- 0.5 degrees c. cutaneous heat loss increased 16 +/- 6% (15 +/- 5 w), but metabolic heat production increased even more (and was associated with a shivering-like tremor). tremor during epidural anesthesia and shivering induced by iced saline infusion had similar synchronous waxing-and-waning patterns. no abnormal emg patterns were detected during epidural anesthesia. we conclude that central hypothermia during the 1st h of epidural anesthesia does not result from heat loss to the environment in excess of metabolic heat production, but results primarily from redistribution of body heat from central to peripheral tissues. analysis of the tremor patterns suggests that oscillations recorded during epidural anesthesia in nonpregnant individuals is normal thermoregulatory shivering. shivering occurred sooner and was more intense during iced saline infusion than during epidural anesthesia, despite comparable central hypothermia. the low intensity of shivering during epidural anesthesia, and in some individuals the delay in onset, may result from blockade of afferent cutaneous cold signals.
stress and sodium intake in neural control of renal function in hypertension. the interaction between genetic and environmental factors is important in the pathophysiology of hypertension. by examining the effects of two environmental factors--acute psychoemotional stress and dietary sodium intake--in rats with genetic hypertension, an important influence on central neural mechanisms governing the renal sympathetic neural control of renal function has been demonstrated. additional studies of the central opioid systems have demonstrated an important role of opioid peptides in modulating the renal functional responses to acute psychoemotional stress. the observed renal functional alterations--antidiuresis, antinatriuresis, and renal vasoconstriction--are known to be capable of contributing to the initiation, development, and maintenance of the hypertensive process.
long-term 6-mercaptopurine treatment in adolescents with crohn's disease although 6-mercaptopurine is often used to treat adolescents with intractable crohn's disease, its long-term efficacy has not yet been studied in this population. this study shows data derived from 36 adolescents (mean age +/- sd, 16.5 +/- 3.3 years; 27 males, 9 females) treated at least 6 months with 6-mercaptopurine (1.5 mg.kg-1.day-1, maximum of 75 mg/day). sites of crohn's disease at the start of 6-mercaptopurine therapy included 17 ileocolic, 9 pancolic, 7 small bowel, and 3 partial colon. all had received corticosteroids, sulfasalazine, antibiotics, and nutritional support for 5.0 +/- 3.0 years before administering 6-mercaptopurine, but intractable symptoms persisted. disease activity lessened during the first year of 6-mercaptopurine, reflected by a higher lloyd-still disease activity score (pre, 64 +/- 9 vs. 6-mercaptopurine, 72 +/- 11; p less than 0.0001). general activity, physical examination, nutrition, and laboratory subscores all improved (p less than 0.004). lessened disease activity occurred despite concomitant decrease in duration of prednisone use (pre, 9.5 +/- 4.2 vs. 6-mercaptopurine, 6.6 +/- 4.9 months/year; p less than 0.001) and cumulative annual prednisone exposure (pre, 3672 +/- 2106 vs. 6-mercaptopurine, 1964 +/- 1460 mg; p less than 0.0007). the frequency of perianal fistulae and abscesses also decreased (p less than 0.01) during treatment. annual rates of hospitalization decreased in 44% of subjects during 6-mercaptopurine treatment, while increasing in only 22%. follow-up beyond 1 year of 6-mercaptopurine treatment showed continued remission in 23 of 30 subjects. no serious complications were seen. 6-mercaptopurine is an effective long-term therapy for adolescents with intractable crohn's disease. while inducing remission, it also has a significant steroid-sparing effect which may be of particular benefit to this population.
ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia: molecular analysis of abl insertion into m-bcr on chromosome 22. leukemic cells from a patient with ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) had a normal karyotype. m-bcr was rearranged and chromosome in situ hybridization showed an abl insertion between 5' and 3' m-bcr on an apparently normal chromosome 22. the association of 5' bcr and 3' abl at the 5' junction of the chromosome 9 insert was typical of that found for the bcr-abl fusion gene in other patients with the standard t(9;22) and cml. with an m-bcr-3' probe, we cloned and characterized a 3' junction fragment. field inversion gel electrophoresis and chromosome in situ hybridization studies using a probe isolated from genomic dna 5' of the junction showed that 3' m-bcr was joined to a region of chromosome 9q34 rich in repetitive sequences and lying some distance 3' of abl. the chromosome 9 insert was at least 329 kilobases long and included 3' abl and a larger portion of chromosome 9q34. our results allowed us to exclude transposon- or retroviral-mediated insertion of abl into chromosome 22. instead, we favored a two-translocation model in which a second translocation reconstituted a standard t(9;22)(q34;q11) but left the chromosome 9 insert, including 3' abl, in chromosome 22.
detection of human papillomavirus type 16 dna in carcinomas of the palatine tonsil. twenty eight tonsillar carcinomas of various histological types were investigated for the presence of epstein-barr virus (ebv), cytomegalovirus (cmv), and human papillomavirus (hpv) types 6, 11, and 16 by in situ hybridisation using highly stringent procedures. in six cases an autoradiographic signal was obtained in the tumour cell nuclei with the hpv type 16 specific probe. no signal was obtained with any of the other probes. immunohistochemical investigations with mouse monoclonal antibodies directed against the l1 protein of hpv type and a rabbit antiserum that detects common protein determinants of hpv gave negative results, thus indicating latent infection. furthermore, a series of tonsils from controls with comparable age distribution was negative by both in situ hybridisation and immunohistology. these results indicate a possible role for hpv 16 in the aetiology of a proportion of tonsillar carcinomas.
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome. fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist. in this study, we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease (djd) and 46 normal controls. ninety (73%) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 (37%) djd patients and none of the normal controls (p less than 0.001). ninety-nine patients (81%) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern, and 77 (63%) had alternating diarrhea and constipation. in contrast, only 24 (44%) of djd patients and six (13%) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 (22%) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea (p less than 0.01). other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas (59%), nausea (21%), diarrhea (9%), and constipation (12%). seventy-nine (64%) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47% of the time. laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group (19%) and absent in the other two groups. fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients, compared to 28% of djd patients, felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed. if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed, appropriate treatment may improve patients' symptoms, although this approach requires further study.
high incidence of hepatitis b infection and evolution of chronic hepatitis b infection in patients with advanced hiv infection. two hundred eleven hiv-seropositive patients with aids, aids-related complex, or a cd4+ cell count less than 200 x 10(6) were examined for the presence of hepatitis b virus markers during the course of their hiv infection (median follow-up of 18 months; range of 1 to 107 months). anti-hbs was detected initially in 138 patients (65%). sixteen patients (8%) were hbsag positive at entry. fourteen had chronic hbv infection of whom 12 initially were positive for hbeag and hbv dna; 11 remained positive during follow-up, whereas one seroconverted to anti-hbe and lost hbv dna. two patients with chronic hbv infection were initially negative for hbeag and hbv dna: one later had reactivated hbv replication and one cleared hbeag following onset of hepatitis d infection. the last two hbsag-positive patients had resolving acute hbv infection. six of the 57 patients who initially were negative for hbv markers acquired hbv infection during follow-up. four of these six patients developed chronic infection whereas two patients had acute subclinical resolving hepatitis. in addition, four patients became hbsag positive with their last serum samples, possibly indicating reactivation of hbv infection following progressive immunological and clinical deterioration. none of the patients developed clinical symptoms that could be ascribed to hbv infection, and transaminase elevations were only sporadically recorded. it is concluded that acquisition of hbv infections is not infrequent in hiv-seropositive patients with immune deficiency. furthermore, the course of both previously established chronic hbv infection and newly acquired hbv infection is modified in such patients, whereas reactivation of past hbv infection seems to be a rare event.
a study of the comparative efficacy of four common analgesics in the control of postsurgical dental pain. four common oral analgesics were tested in a single-blind trial to determine their relative efficacy in the management of postsurgical pain in 103 patients who had their impacted third molars surgically removed under general anesthesia. the analgesics tested were acetylsalicylic acid (26 patients), ibuprofen (26 patients), a paracetamol/codeine/caffeine combination (solpadeine) (25 patients), and dihydrocodeine (26 patients). the paracetamol/codeine/caffeine combination, ibuprofen, and acetylsalicylic acid preparations produced equally effective analgesia. dihydrocodeine was found to be a poor analgesic in this pain model. there were no adverse reactions to any of the preparations.
deep venous thrombosis: longitudinal study with duplex us. forty-nine patients with deep venous thrombosis (dvt) of the lower limb were studied with repeated duplex ultrasound (us) for at least 1 year or until the vein became normal at us. standard anticoagulant therapy was given for 3 months. in 36 patients, the veins became normal within 1 year. the likelihood of normalization increased if the lesion was located in only one site, if the pelvic veins were unaffected, if the affected leg was the left one, if the initial clot was nonocclusive, if there was no history of dvt, and if the symptoms had lasted less than than 24 hours. the average time before normalization was shorter if the symptoms had lasted less than 24 hours, that is, 11 weeks versus 25 weeks (p less than .02). the rate of sequelae at 1 year was lower if the us scan was normal or showed regression at 3 months, 6% versus 83% (p less than .00005).
significance of fill-in after thallium-201 reinjection following delayed imaging: comparison with regional wall motion and angiographic findings to identify reversible defects, reinjection of a small amount of thallium-201 (201tl) following 3-hr delayed imaging was performed in 60 patients with coronary artery disease who had perfusion abnormalities on their post-exercise 201tl images. thallium-201 uptake was visually scored and judged as normal (group 1), reversible defect (group ii), new fill-in after reinjection (group iiia) and no fill-in even after reinjection (group iiib). new fill-in after reinjection was observed in 27 segments of the 85 segments (32%), showing persistent defect on the stress and delayed images. the wall motion in group iiia was worse than group ii but better than group iiib. group iiia showed q-wave on ecg more often (69%) than group ii (27%) (p less than 0.01), but less often than group iiib (85%) (p less than 0.05). these data indicate that the reinjection 201tl imaging often identifies new fill-in in the areas of no redistribution on the delayed images and it may hold promise for assessing tissue viability which the conventional imaging may underestimate.
are people more health conscious? a longitudinal study of one community. secular changes in cardiovascular health awareness, knowledge and behavior were observed in four biennial cross-sectional surveys and a cohort survey in a new england community. these changes are not related to more health promotion activities in the social milieu of respondents, but are more likely due to national mass media health campaigns, the effects of which may influence outcomes of community-based cardiovascular disease prevention studies.
nocturnal faecal soiling and anal masturbation. two cases of late onset faecal soiling as a result of anal masturbation in children who were neither mentally handicapped nor psychotic were studied. the role of soiling in aiding the young person and his family to avoid separating and maturing is highlighted. we suggest that the association of anal masturbation and resistant nocturnal soiling may be unrecognised.
relationship between blood groups and behavior patterns in men who have had myocardial infarction. consistent correlations have been found between physical dysfunctional states and blood factors. some of these disorders have possible psychosomatic components (eg, duodenal ulcer, myocardial infarction). this study focused on the relationship between blood types and various indices of behavior patterns (eg, type a behavior scores, anger ratings) in young patients who had had an initial myocardial infarction. patients with blood type o scored significantly higher on type a behavior scales and related indices than those having blood type a. those with blood group b responded on several scales between those with types a and o. we discuss the utility of blood groupings in future research in the prediction of myocardial infarction, methodologic limitations, the relationship of these results to temperament studies, jenkins activity survey subtest patterns, anti-h reactivity pattern, and hypotheses relating blood factors and behavioral traits in patients with psychosomatic disorders.
prolonged and fractionated right atrial electrograms during sinus rhythm in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and sick sinus node syndrome. intraatrial catheter mapping of the right atrium was performed during sinus rhythm in 92 patients: group i = 43 control patients without paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or sick sinus node syndrome; group ii = 31 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation but without sick sinus node syndrome; and group iii = 18 patients with both paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and sick sinus node syndrome. atrial electrograms were recorded at 12 sites in the right atrium. the duration and number of fragmented deflections of the atrial electrograms were quantitatively measured. the mean duration and number of fragmented deflections of the 516 atrial electrograms in group i were 74 +/- 11 ms and 3.9 +/- 1.3, respectively. the criteria for an abnormal atrial electrogram were defined as a duration of greater than or equal to 100 ms or eight or more fragmented deflections, or both. abnormal atrial electrograms were observed in 10 patients (23.3%) in group i, 21 patients (67.7%) in group ii and 15 patients (83.3%) in group iii (group ii versus group i, p less than 0.001; group iii versus group i, p less than 0.001). the mean number of abnormal electrograms per patient with an abnormal electrogram was 1.3 +/- 0.7 in group i, 2.5 +/- 1.9 in group ii and 3.5 +/- 2.5 in group iii (group i versus group ii, p less than 0.01; group ii versus group iii, p less than 0.05). a prolonged and fractionated atrial electrogram characteristic of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation can be closely related to the vulnerability of the atrial muscle.
myosin heavy chain turnover during cardiac mass changes by glucocorticoids. one aim of this investigation was to determine whether the cardiac enlargement observed with glucocorticoid treatment is temporary or remains a permanent adaptation if steroid treatment is prolonged. a second aim was to study whether myosin heavy chain (mhc) synthesis rates are coordinated with the cardiac mass responses. female rats received either a vehicle (1% aqueous carboxymethyl cellulose in saline) or hydrocortisone 21-acetate for 1, 3, 7, 11, and 15 days. peak cardiac enlargement (10-15%) was observed after 7 days of hormone treatment in two separate series of experiments. the enlargement was maintained through 11 days of steroid injections but by 15 days had declined toward control levels. mhc synthesis measurements were performed by constant infusion of [3h]leucine. leucine specific activities were similar among precursor pools (intracellular, extracellular, and leucyl-trna) and did not vary with steroid treatments. fractional synthesis rates of ventricular mhc (%/day) did not change during the period of increase in ventricular mass but were reduced to 56-59% of controls (-11/19.5) at 7 and 11 days of treatment, when ventricular mass increases were highest. mhc breakdown (%/day) was reduced to approximately 60% (-11.5/18.7) of controls at 7 and 11 days. changes in total protein synthesis, which was measured in isolated perfused hearts, were similar to the mhc responses and indicated that the alterations in mhc synthesis are synchronized with the hormonal effects on total protein metabolism. these results demonstrate that peak cardiac enlargement is not maintained with long-term glucocorticoid treatment.
blood-brain barrier damage in acute multiple sclerosis plaques. an immunocytological study. to investigate blood-barrier leakage of plasma proteins in acute plaques of multiple sclerosis (ms) the authors used immunocytological methods to examine frozen tissue removed at autopsy from recently active cases. annular patterns of protein-rich leakage were seen which may help to elucidate the patterns observed using gadolinium-enhanced nuclear magnetic resonance imaging. vessel wall damage was found in all acute plaques examined and this was associated with the intramural deposition of complement on smooth muscle components and with an infiltration of hla-dr +ve macrophages. in addition, all acute cases examined had small plaques which contained particulate material within macrophages and astrocytes, on which complement and immunoglobulins colocated. attempts to find similar material in cases of chronic ms, subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and in perivenous encephalomyelitis were unsuccessful. these results suggest that the inflammatory changes in early ms plaques may have some specificity which could be related to the antigens whose presence is inferred by the colocation of complement and immunoglobulin on material within activated macrophages and astrocytes.
cat-scratch disease: an unusual cause of combative behavior. acute encephalitis is an unusual manifestation of cat-scratch disease. the authors present the case of a 27-year-old man who exhibited the acute onset of encephalitis manifested by violent behavior and confusion. the diagnosis of drug abuse was presumed initially, but a careful examination revealed the true cause to be cat-scratch disease. emergency physicians are frequently faced with the challenging task of evaluating confused and combative patients. this case demonstrates the importance of a complete physical examination and a thorough laboratory evaluation.
adult phosphorylase b kinase deficiency. phosphorylase b kinase deficiency affecting muscle has been observed infrequently in children with weakness and hepatomegaly, and in 2 adults with cramps on exertion. we observed 2 additional adults with phosphorylase b kinase deficiency: patient 1, aged 58, had progressive, predominantly distal weakness since age 46 but no cramps on exertion; patient 2, aged 26, had cramps on exertion since age 6 but no weakness. lactate production on ischemic exercise was impaired only in patient 1. the serum creatine kinase level was elevated in both. muscle specimens showed focal glycogen excess in both, and a necrotizing myopathy and mild denervation atrophy in patient 1. muscle phosphorylase b kinase activity was 0.5% and 8.9% of the lowest control value in patients 1 and 2, respectively; erythrocyte phosphorylase b kinase activity was normal in both; liver phosphorylase b kinase activity, measured in patient 1, was also normal. other glycolytic enzymes in muscle were preserved in both.
coarctation of the aorta. coarctation of the aorta is a common cardiovascular disorder with an unknown etiology. in the preductal type, blood flows from a patent ductus into the distal aorta. when the coarctation is juxtaductal or postductal, blood flows to the lower extremities by way of the subclavian arteries and collaterals. plain films may show the reverse sign in postductal coarctation. arteriography is the gold standard for making the diagnosis. however, magnetic resonance imaging will probably become an increasingly important diagnostic tool. the treatment of choice is surgery, with complete resection of the stenosed segment.
osteosarcoma in young children. the clinicopathologic features of osteosarcoma in 12 children younger than 16 years of age treated at the children's hospital and dana-farber cancer institute, boston, during a 70-year time period are presented. only one of six children treated before 1972 is a long-term survivor. four of six children (67%) treated after 1972 are disease-free with an average follow-up of 8.8 years. the year 1972 marked the onset of use of effective chemotherapy in osteosarcoma, namely, high-dose methotrexate and leucovorin rescue. it would appear that the pathologic features and behavior of osteosarcoma in young children is similar to that of osteosarcoma in older children and adolescents. a combination of complete (wide) surgical resection or amputation and aggressive chemotherapy offers the best chance of long-term survival.
effects of diltiazem on complications and restenosis after coronary angioplasty. a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial was performed to evaluate the usefulness of empiric therapy with a calcium antagonist in patients who undergo coronary angioplasty. a total of 201 patients were randomized to placebo or to high-dose diltiazem (mean dose, 329 mg/day). treatment began 24 hours before angioplasty. restenosis was assessed by percent area stenosis as determined by quantitative angiographic techniques before, immediately and 1 year after angioplasty. all patients also received aspirin and dipyridamole before angioplasty. heparin and verapamil were administered intravenously during the procedure. the 2 groups were similar with respect to age, extent of coronary artery disease, smoking history, and baseline lipid levels. procedural complications, including death (1 vs 1), q-wave infarction (0 vs 3), acute occlusion (5 vs 5) and focal spasm (0 vs 0), were not significantly different in the diltiazem and placebo patients, respectively. freedom from all acute complications was noted in 85% of patients in both groups. one-year angiographic follow-up was obtained in 60% of patients. restenosis rates were similar: 36% in the diltiazem group and 32% in the placebo group (p = 0.30). the incidence of late cardiac events (death, q-wave myocardial infarction, recurrent angina or coronary bypass graft surgery) was similar in the 2 groups. thus, diltiazem did not influence the overall restenosis rate or prevent late events after coronary angioplasty.
deficiencies of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins in outpatients with deep-vein thrombosis background. isolated deficiencies of antithrombin iii, protein c, protein s, and plasminogen have been implicated as a cause of deep-vein thrombosis. it is assumed that patients with recurrent, familial, or juvenile thrombosis are very likely to have such a deficiency. methods. we studied the prevalence of isolated deficiencies of these proteins in 277 consecutive outpatients with venographically proved acute deep-vein thrombosis, as compared with 138 age-matched and sex-matched controls without deep-vein thrombosis, and calculated the positive predictive value of a history of recurrent, familial, or juvenile venous thromboembolism for the presence of such a deficiency. results. the overall prevalence of deficiencies of any of these proteins in the patients with venous thrombosis was 8.3 percent (23 of 277 patients) (95 percent confidence interval, 5.4 to 12.4), as compared with 2.2 percent in the controls (3 of 138 subjects) (95 percent confidence interval, 0.5 to 6.1; p less than 0.05 for the comparison between groups). the positive predictive values for the presence of an isolated protein deficiency in patients with recurrent, familial, or juvenile deep-vein thrombosis, defined as the proportion of patients with the clinical finding who had a deficiency of one or more of the proteins, were 9, 16, and 12 percent, respectively. conclusions. the cause of acute venous thrombosis in most outpatients (91.7 percent) cannot be explained by abnormalities of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins. the information obtained from the medical history concerning recurrent or familial venous thrombosis or the onset of the disease at a young age is not useful for the identification of patients with protein deficiencies.
colorectal carcinoma: preoperative tnm classification with endosonography. transcolorectal endosonography (tes) with use of both a nonoptic instrument and an echocolonoscope was performed in 91 patients with colorectal carcinomas (61 rectal and 30 colonic). correlation of results at tes with results of histologic analysis of resected specimens according to the 1987 tnm classification demonstrated that tes allowed accurate staging of all tumors except t2 carcinomas, which were often accompanied by peritumoral inflammation or abscesses. overall, the accuracy of staging rectal and colonic carcinomas with tes was 81% and 93%, respectively; overstaging occurred in 13% and understaging in 2%. for regional lymph nodes, the accuracy of staging with tes was 70%, the sensitivity was 94%, and the specificity was 55%. correlations between findings at tes and the dukes classification were as follows: for rectal carcinoma, 48% for class a, 50% for class b, and 96% for class c; for colonic carcinoma, 67% for class a, 46% for class b, and 91% for class c. overall accuracy was 67%. with the addition of abdominal computed tomographic or ultrasonographic examinations to evaluate distant metastases, tes should become an important imaging technique for clinical tnm staging of colorectal carcinomas.
mohs micrographic surgery. mohs micrographic surgery is a versatile technique for the treatment of nonmelanoma skin cancers, especially recurrent, invasive, or infiltrating basal cell carcinomas. it provides unsurpassed cure rates by using 100% surgical margin control, and it achieves maximal preservation of normal tissue. at the conclusion of tumor extirpation, the defect is ready for immediate reconstruction. with better understanding of the mohs micrographic surgery technique, it can be more effectively used as part of a coordinated multidisciplinary approach to the treatment of patients with difficult cutaneous and paracutaneous neoplasms.
coronary angioplasty in symptomatic patients after bypass surgery. with the availability of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), the management of patients who present with recurrent angina following coronary artery bypass surgery (cabg) has changed. from january 1987 to december 1988, 149 symptomatic post cabg patients underwent coronary angiography at our institution. ninety were treated with medical antianginal therapy, 14 had repeat surgery, and 45 underwent ptca. complications of repeat cabg included one death, two perioperative myocardial infarctions, and four patients with postoperative supraventricular arrhythmia. ptca was performed on 42 lesions in 37 native vessels (88% success rate), and on 24 lesions in 23 vein grafts (91.7% success rate). complications included acute reocclusion (one patient), peripheral artery occlusion (one patient), hematoma formation (one patient), and periprocedure myocardial infarction (one patient). no deaths occurred. at a mean follow-up of 5.9 +/- 3.8 months, 10 patients had recurrent symptoms, six of whom were found to have restenosis. repeat ptca was successfully accomplished in four patients; the other two were treated medically. it is concluded that ptca is a feasible alternative to repeat cabg in selected patients and can be achieved with a high success rate and minimal complications.
cardiac risk in vascular surgery. the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test. the value of the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test in identifying patients at high risk of myocardial infarction after vascular procedures has not been documented. we studied prospectively 46 patients who underwent an oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test before undergoing vascular operations. twenty patients (43%) had a positive test result, defined by a thallium defect with reperfusion, while 26 patients had a negative test result. myocardial infarctions were documented postoperatively in 5 (25%) of 20 of the group with positive results and 1 (4%) of 26 of the group with negative results. three of the six myocardial infarctions were clinical; all three were in the group with positive results. no correlation was identified between dipyridamole-thallium stress test results and clinical cardiac history. a positive dipyridamole-thallium stress test result is a more sensitive predictor of postoperative myocardial infarction than ejection fraction or history of coronary artery disease. the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test is as useful as the intravenous test in this setting.
colorectal adenocarcinoma in patients less than 40 years of age. from 1973 to 1985, 105 patients under 40 years of age were treated for colorectal adenocarcinoma at roswell park cancer institute. there were 51 males and 54 females. the mean age was 32 years. the majority of patients were treated for left colon or rectal carcinomas. ninety-seven of 105 patients underwent surgical resection of their primary cancer, 70 (67 percent) of which were potentially curative. twenty-seven patients underwent palliative resections. dukes' a or b lesions were not seen in patients less than 20 years old, whereas these early lesions were seen in 11 percent of patients 20 to 29 years old and in 26 percent of patients greater than 30 years of age. the mean survival for patients between 20 and 29 years was 39 months and 46 months for patients 30 years and older.
limb reconstruction with vascularized fibular grafts after bone tumor resection. limb-salvage operations are being used with increasing frequency for patients with malignant bone tumors. for children, when a biologic reconstruction is desired, the choice is often between conventional and vascularized fibular grafts. an experimental study was performed in dogs to compare the two types of fibular grafts for bridging segmental defects in the radius and ulna. twenty-six adult dogs were divided into two groups and studied at intervals of two, three, four, six, and 12 months after transplantation. the conventional grafts healed by creeping substitution i.e., they were first partially resorbed before new bone was laid down. in contrast, the vascularized fibulae maintained their normal structure and hypertrophied by subperiosteal new bone formation. the conventional fibulae eventually hypertrophied but much later than the vascularized grafts. the vascularized grafts were stronger at four and six months. between six and 12 months, both grafts remodeled to resemble the size and shape of the forearm bones they were replacing. these experimental results have influenced the treatment of patients. vascularized fibular grafts are ideal for diaphyseal defects greater than 10 cm long, especially in very young children, a poorly vascularized bed, or when bone healing is delayed by chemotherapeutic agents. to maximize hypertrophy, an external fixator is used to immobilize the graft rather than a plate, which acts as a stress shield.
cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil for advanced locoregional and metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. seven patients with advanced locoregional or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin were treated with cis-daimminedichloroplatin (cisplatin) and 5-fluorouracil (5-fu). responses were seen in six of seven patients (three partial responses [pr] and three complete responses [cr]). one patient is alive and disease-free at 2 years. these results indicate that cisplatin and 5-fu is an effective combination regimen that should be used in future clinical trials in squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients. we report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis, complicated by empyema formation. most of these patients has severe underlying disease, rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention. in all patients, the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities. six were considered inoperable. three of these remain free of biliary symptoms, respectively 22, 10, and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy. three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy. three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy. in one patient, cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops, 1 wk after catheter removal. in our opinion, percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis. it can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates, or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients.
spontaneous dural carotid-cavernous fistula with central retinal vein occlusion and iris neovascularization. spontaneous dural carotid-cavernous fistulas are dural vascular malformations that usually run a benign course. we present a case of a spontaneously occurring dural carotid-cavernous fistula complicated by central retinal vein occlusion and iris neovascularization that led to progressive visual failure.
renal vein thrombosis. initial manifestation of goodpasture's syndrome. we report a patient who presented with renal vein thrombosis and nephrosis that progressed to alveolar hemorrhage and renal failure. renal biopsy immunofluorescence and serum antiglomerular basement membrane antibody titer studies confirmed the diagnosis of goodpasture's syndrome. to our knowledge, this is the first report of renal vein thrombosis as the initial presentation of goodpasture's syndrome.
intraoperative dexamethasone irrigation in lumbar microdiskectomy. in 45 lumbar hemilaminectomy/microdiskectomy patients, a control group of 23 patients had the standard operative procedure. the remaining 22 patients were treated with intraoperative irrigation of long-acting dexamethasone before incision closure. age, weight, gender ratio, mean postoperative hospital stay, mean in-hospital narcotics usage, and incidence of perioperative complications among the two groups were compared. age and gender ratios were comparable, although the control group was significantly heavier in body weight than the steroid-irrigated group. the steroid-irrigated group had a significant reduction in hospitalization and a marked reduction in narcotics usage compared with the control group. postoperative fever occurred in one patient in the steroid group. the control group had three postoperative complications. these preliminary observations suggest that dexamethasone irrigation during lumbar diskectomy is a safe and effective adjunct to surgical management.
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy. we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls (group c, n = 11), diabetic patients (group d, n = 8), and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy (group dn, n = 6) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states. by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner, peak systolic velocity, peak diastolic forward velocity, end-diastolic forward velocity, and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal. the vessels' diameters in centimeters were also measured. after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients. the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery (0.7 cm) and celiac artery (0.8 cm) did not change. flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal. in the control group, peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38%, peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66%, and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70%. in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15%, 98%, and 100%, respectively. these changes were statistically significant (p less than 0.01). on the other hand, the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities. moreover, this alteration in blood flow velocity, although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina, did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning.
perioperative myocardial injury in patients undergoing aortic valve replacement. in cases of myocardial hypertrophy myocardial protection may be insufficient. in order to determine the factors responsible for myocardial injury we assessed myocardial injury in 54 patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement. in all cases hypothermic cardioplegic arrest was induced. at 13 different times we measured the serum level of creatine-kinase (ck), myocardial bound creatine-kinase (ckmb), lactic dehydrogenase (ldh), alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (alpha-hbdh), glutamic oxaloacetic transferase (got) and myoglobin. the mean duration of ischemia was 52.6 +/- 16.2 minutes and the mean time of extracorporeal circulation was 85.85 +/- 20.25 minutes. by performance of a multiple regression analysis a significant correlation between ischemia and ldh and alpha-hbdh was found; ck, got, ldh and alpha-hbdh correlated with duration of extracorporeal circulation. in none of the patients was a low cardiac output syndrome observed. from our results we conclude that in our study myocardial protection was sufficient and therefore the detrimental effects of extracorporeal circulation were the determining factors of enzyme release.
prolonged treatment of children with chronic hepatitis b with recombinant alpha 2a-interferon: a controlled, randomized study. a prospective study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of alpha-interferon in 20 children with biopsy-proven hbsag/hbeag/hbv-dna-positive, anti-delta-negative chronic hepatitis. patients were randomized to receive alpha 2a-interferon (inf), 3 mu im three times weekly for 12 months, or no treatment (10 patients per group). five patients receiving ifn showed a marked decrease or negativization of hbv-dna during treatment. at the end of the study (after 18 month), three patients lost hbv-dna permanently, and two of them seroconverted to hbeab 10 and 11 months after disappearance of hbv-dna with normalization of aminotransferase values. in the control group, one patient had spontaneous clearance of hbv-dna with conversion to hbeab and normalization of aminotransferase levels. all treated patients had a febrile reaction in the first month of treatment. the dose of ifn had to be decreased in two patients and was discontinued for persistent intolerance in one of them. patients who showed a decreased viral replication had higher initial biochemical and histological activity than nonresponders. the data suggest that ifn treatment may favorably influence the progression of chronic b hepatitis in children with a history of acute hepatitis and active chronic disease.
delayed death from aortic root trauma. a 40-year-old man suffered blunt chest trauma, had a myocardial infarct 58 days later, and died unexpectedly 19 days after that. autopsy showed partial avulsion of a small branch of the right coronary artery with thrombus extending into the right coronary sinus of valsalva occluding the right coronary artery and causing a myocardial infarct. death was caused by a thromboembolus arising from the aortic root thrombus and occluding the left main coronary artery. the case is unusual in that the major consequences of the aortic root trauma were delayed, and death resulted from occlusion of both coronary arteries.
alcohol consumption in patients with colorectal adenomatous polyps. the risk of developing colorectal adenomatous polyps is probably increased by a variety of dietary and environmental factors. we found an association with current alcohol and cigarette consumption. the risk of polyps was increased three times in drinkers who did not smoke and two times in smokers who did not drink, with those who both drank and smoked having 12 times the risk of total abstainers. since colonic adenomatous polyps are generally regarded as premalignant lesions, these results lend support to the view that alcohol consumption may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of colorectal neoplasia, thus reinforcing the proposed polyp/carcinoma sequence in colorectal carcinogenesis. the role of smoking, however, is less clear particularly since the lack of association of colorectal carcinoma and smoking has been reported in many other studies.
operation everest ii: ventilatory adaptation during gradual decompression to extreme altitude. to assess the ventilatory adaptation during gradual ascent to extreme altitude, we studied seven healthy males as part of the 40 d simulated ascent of mt. everest in a hypobaric chamber. we measured resting ventilation (ve, l.min-1), arterial oxygen saturation (sao2%), the ventilatory response to oxygen breathing, isocapnic hypoxic ventilatory response (hvr), and hypercapnic ventilatory response (hcvr) at sea level prior to the ascent (760 torr), 14,000 feet (428 torr), 24,000 feet (305 torr), and within 24 h of descent (765 torr). ve increased from 9.3 +/- 1.1 l.min-1 at 760 torr to 23.4 +/- 1.3 l.min-1 at 305 torr and remained elevated at 14.7 +/- 0.7 l.min-1 after descent. oxygen breathing decreased ve by 9.6 +/- 1.3 l.min-1 at 305 torr. isocapnic hvr (expressed as a positive slope of ve/sao2, l.min-1.%sao2(-1) increased from 0.18 +/- 0.07 at 760 torr to 0.34 +/- 0.11 and 0.38 +/- 0.5 at 428 torr and 305 torr (p less than 0.05) respectively. hvr was elevated further upon return to sea level (0.8 +/- 0.09, p less than 0.05). hcvr (s = ve/petco2, l.min-1.torr-1) increased from sea level (s = 4.4 +/- 0.09) to 305 torr (s = 18.7 +/- 3.5, p less than 0.01) and remained elevated upon return to sea level (s = 10.7 +/- 4.6, p less than 0.001). this study is the first to investigate the ventilatory response to such extreme altitude and so soon after descent and shows that hypoxic and hypercapnic responses increase during prolonged progressive hypoxic exposure and remain significantly elevated from pre-ascent levels immediately upon descent.
neuropsychological assessment of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia. a comparison of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia controls for genetic variance and reduces variance due to environmental circumstances, thus serving to highlight differences due to phenotypic-related variables. in this study, we assessed 16 such twin pairs on a wide range of neuropsychological tests. the affected twins tended to perform worse than their unaffected counterparts on most of the tests. deficits were especially severe on tests of vigilance, memory, and concept formation, suggesting that dysfunction is greatest in the frontotemporal cortex. while manifest symptoms were not highly associated with neuropsychological scores, global level of functioning was. to address the issue of genetic liability, we also compared the sample of discordant unaffected twins with a sample of seven pairs of normal monozygotic twins. no significant differences between the groups were found for any neuropsychological test. in fact, the results suggest that neuropsychological dysfunction is a consistent feature of schizophrenia and that it is related primarily to the clinical disease process and not to genetic or nonspecific environmental factors.
recurrent bell's palsy in pregnancy. a case of recurrent bell's palsy occurring in two successive pregnancies in a 37-year-old woman is presented. the causes of facial nerve paralysis of the lower motor neurone type are discussed. the rate of recurrence of bell's palsy during pregnancy is unknown. treatment with corticosteroids of bell's palsy during pregnancy poses the threat of possible side effects on the fetus.
mapping chromosome band 11q23 in human acute leukemia with biotinylated probes: identification of 11q23 translocation breakpoints with a yeast artificial chromosome. translocations involving chromosome 11, band q23, are frequent recurring abnormalities in human acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia. we used 19 biotin-labeled probes derived from genes and anonymous cosmids for hybridization to metaphase chromosomes from leukemia cells that contained four translocations involving band 11q23: t(4;11)(q21;q23), t(6;11)(q27;q23), t(9;11)(p22;q23), and t(11;19)(q23;p13). the location of the cosmid probes relative to the breakpoint in 11q23 was the same in all translocations. of the cosmid clones containing known genes, cd3d was proximal and pbgd, thy1, srpr, and ets1 were distal to the breakpoint on 11q23. hybridization of genomic dna from a yeast clone containing yeast artificial chromosomes (yacs), that carry 320 kilobases (kb) of human dna including cd3d and cd3g genes, showed that the yacs were split in all four translocations. these results indicate that the breakpoint at 11q23 in each of these translocations occurs within the 320 kb encompassed by these yacs; whether the breakpoint within the yacs is precisely the same in the different translocations is presently unknown.
a new ophthalmic electronic videoendoscope system for intraocular surgery. a new ophthalmic electronic videoendoscope system has a 20-guage probe for intraocular observation, a standard size for vitreous microsurgical instruments, and both endoscopic and operating microscopic images are displayed on a split-screen monitor system to provide surgeos a simultaneous view of both images. using this endoscope system at any time during surgery, surgeons can examine the intraocular structure such as the ciliary sulcus, pars plana, or vitreous base and obtain valuable but otherwise unobtainable information for completing the surgery.
numb chin syndrome secondary to burkitt's cell acute leukemia. we describe a case of burkitt's cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia presenting with the bilateral numb chin syndrome as the initial symptom of the disease. postmortem study of the trigeminal nerve showed heavy infiltrations of leukemic cells and destruction of axon and myelin by leukemic cells in the mandibular nerve.
flow cytometric dna analysis of hepatocellular carcinoma. the prognostic value of nuclear dna content was studied retrospectively using flow cytometry in 203 cases of resected hepatocellular carcinoma. the occurrence of dna aneuploidy, which was detected in 50% of patients, correlated significantly with tumor size and the presence of vascular invasion or intrahepatic metastasis. overall, patients with dna aneuploid tumors had a significantly worse prognosis than those with dna diploid tumors (p less than 0.001) and, also in subdivided groups by tumor size (p less than 0.01). among dna aneuploid patients, the survival times were significantly shorter for patients with a low dna index (less than 1.5) than for those with a high dna index (greater than or equal to 1.5) (p less than 0.05). in a cox multivariate analysis, nuclear dna content provided significant prognostic value (p = 0.008), as did vascular invasion (p = 0.001) and intrahepatic metastasis (p = 0.005). these results indicated that nuclear dna content has an important prognostic value in hepatocellular carcinoma.
variants of intestinal metaplasia in the evolution of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric ulcer. a follow up study. a follow up study with biopsy was initiated in 1982 to define the relations between variants of intestinal metaplasia and the evolution of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric ulcer. all patients (58 with chronic atrophic gastritis and 66 with gastric ulcer) had intestinal metaplasia at the start of the study. in the six year period to 1988 a total of 241 biopsies were performed on the patients with chronic atrophic gastritis and 243 on the patients with gastric ulcer. initially, 81% of the patients with chronic atrophic gastritis presented with type i intestinal metaplasia and 14% with type iii intestinal metaplasia. during follow up type i was predominant, often associated with grades 2 and 3 active disease (81%) and 45% of these patients reverted to a non-intestinal metaplasia status by the third year of follow up. in contrast, type iii metaplasia was more common in the absence of appreciable inflammation (78% of biopsy specimens), being persistent in five of seven patients in the third year of follow up, and was found to be associated with dysplasia in three of these patients. similarly, the initial biopsy specimen showed type i metaplasia in most patients with gastric ulcer (82%) and type iii in only 4%. type i metaplasia was also predominant in these patients (80%), particularly in active disease (68%), gradually regressing with healing. in contrast, type iii was associated with delayed ulcer healing and reactivation (75%; six of eight patients).
pain relief achieved by transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and/or vibratory stimulation in a case of painful legs and moving toes. a patient is described with painful legs and moving toes. the pain had been occurring for more than 15 years, and a variety of therapies had been attempted with only partial, if any, success. only morphine had succeeded in relieving the pain, but it had to be discontinued to avoid tolerance and dependence. we devised a treatment consisting of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), vibratory stimulation (vs), and a combination of the two methods (tens + vs). tens brought about partial pain relief, but was less effective than vs; dual stimulation (tens + vs) led to complete alleviation of the pain. four months later, the patient was applying dual stimulation himself at home and was thus able to maintain complete relief with 3 or 4 weekly sessions. we suggest that dual stimulation results in a large-scale recruitment of large-diameter afferent fibres and may thus set up a powerful inhibitory control of nociception in our patient.
natural history of congestive gastropathy in cirrhosis. the liver study group of v. cervello hospital. in a prospective study of the natural history of congestive gastropathy, 212 consecutive cirrhotic patients (75 treated with sclerotherapy) were included. mean follow-up was 46 months. mild gastropathy (mosaiclike pattern) was found in 110 patients and severe gastropathy (granular mucosa with cherry spots) was found in 20. prevalence of helicobacter pylori, formerly campylobacter pylori, was 50% in patients without, 43% in those with mild, and 28% in those with severe gastropathy. congestive gastropathy was significantly more frequent in patients treated with sclerotherapy (83% vs. 50%, p less than 10(-5)). sixty-month actuarial proportions of patients free of anemia (in the absence of hematemesis or melena), were 17% with severe, 62% with mild, and 93% without gastropathy (p less than 10(-8]. corresponding figures for overt bleeding were 25%, 73%, and 87% (p less than 10(-7], whereas those for survival were 46%, 72%, and 85% (p = 0.0005), respectively. a multivariate regression analysis supported the following conclusions: (a) sclerotherapy and the presence of large esophageal varices significantly increase the risk of congestive gastropathy, which (b) is a significant risk indicator of both chronic and overt bleeding but does not independently affect survival.
resympathectomy of the upper extremity. resympathectomy was performed in 27 patients (eight bilaterally) with ischaemic hand phenomena. an extended operative technique, resecting parts of the second and third intercostal nerves and their surrounding tissue, was used. in all 35 procedures the posterior extrapleural approach was used. follow-up was from 3 to 12 years. only the sympathetic ganglia had been removed during the previous surgery by the axillary approach (67 per cent of these patients had had a transient response for between 6 months and 2 years; 33 per cent had had no response at all). a direct subjective improvement was seen after 27 of the 35 reoperations (77 per cent). in 14 patients continuous wave doppler ultrasound studies were available and showed a significant increase in peak forward frequency after operation (p less than 0.001). from these data it may be concluded that it is possible to obtain a resympathectomy effect, but reoperation should be reserved for special cases for whom survival of digits is essential.
is phase 2 cardiac rehabilitation necessary for early recovery of patients with cardiac disease? a randomized, controlled study. in this study the effects of rehabilitation teaching plus exercise testing on perceived self-efficacy for and performance of daily activities were compared with and without exercise training. subjects were patients who had had myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery (mean age 57.7 +/- 11.3 years) and who had already received inpatient rehabilitation services. subjects were randomly assigned to one of three groups. treatment group 1 (n = 11) received teaching, treadmill exercise testing, and exercise training (three times weekly for 5 weeks). treatment group 2 (n = 15) received only teaching and exercise testing. the control group (n = 14) received only routine care without supervised exercise or teaching. measurements of self-efficacy and activity performance were made at hospital discharge and at 4 and 9 weeks after the cardiac event. repeated-measures analysis of variance showed an increase in self-efficacy scores (p less than 0.001) and performance of physical activity (p less than 0.001) for all groups. both treatment groups, especially the training group, obtained the highest scores, but differences between groups were nonsignificant (p greater than 0.05). these results indicate that in a sample of uncomplicated, motivated patients who had participated in a phase 1 inpatient rehabilitation program, substantial improvements in self-efficacy and performance of daily activities were made early in recovery, before the onset of phase 2, formalized outpatient therapy.
selective dopamine da1 stimulation with fenoldopam in cirrhotic patients with ascites: a systemic, splanchnic and renal hemodynamic study. we studied the effects of fenoldopam, a selective dopamine da1 agonist on systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics, renal blood flow and sodium excretion in 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and ascites. hepatic, azygos and renal veins were catheterized before and after intravenous administration of fenoldopam, 0.05 micrograms/kg/min for 1 hr and increased to 0.1 micrograms/kg/min for another hour. mean arterial pressure progressively decreased (from 83 +/- 7 to a minimum of 77 +/- 8 mm hg 100 min after starting the infusion) but returned to baseline level at 120 min. plasma norepinephrine and renin activity increased (respectively from 567 +/- 297 to 919 +/- 375 pg/ml, p less than 0.05, and from 17 +/- 14 to 23 +/- 15 ng/ml/hr, p less than 0.05). renal blood flow, urine output or sodium excretion did not change. sodium output decreased at 1 hr from 6.9 mumol/min to 4.0 mumol/min, p less than 0.05. both hepatic venous pressure gradient and azygos blood flow significantly increased by 21%. we conclude that the acute administration of fenoldopam did not improve renal hemodynamics or function in patients with cirrhosis and ascites. in addition, dopamine da1 agonism caused further increases in norepinephrine concentration and plasma renin activity. portal pressure also increased, probably because of an increase in mesenteric blood flow. these results question the renal benefit and raise concern about the use of dopamine agonists in patients with cirrhosis and ascites.
cardiovascular risk factors and the effects of intervention. cardiovascular risk factors can be substantially modified by changes in life-style such as diet, exercise, smoking cessation, and moderation of alcohol consumption. in turn, these can reduce blood pressure, heart rate at rest, and blood lipid concentrations. epidemiologic evidence shows that for every 1% change in serum cholesterol levels, there is a 3% change in the likelihood of developing coronary heart disease. in addition, a long-term (5-year) change of 5 to 6 mm hg in diastolic blood pressure can reduce the chances of stroke by 35 to 40% and of coronary heart disease by 20 to 25%. the full impact of this broad range of interventions on population health has still to be fully realized in many countries, including the united kingdom, however it is likely to be considerable. some of the recent evidence in support of such cardiovascular risk factor modification is selectively reviewed.
sudden death in young competitive athletes: clinicopathologic correlations in 22 cases. purpose: to investigate the pathologic substrates of sudden death in young competitive athletes. patients and methods: twenty-two cases of sudden death in young competitive athletes occurring in the veneto region (northern italy) in the period january 1979 to december 1989 were studied by postmortem examination. the athletes included 19 males and three females, ranging in age from 11 to 35 years (mean, 23 years). results: in 18 cases, sudden death occurred during (16 cases) or immediately after (two cases) a competitive sport activity. in 10 subjects, sudden death was apparently the first sign of disease. postmortem examination disclosed that this fatality was due to arrhythmic cardiac arrest in 17 cases; among these, right ventricular cardiomyopathy, also known as "right ventricular dysplasia," was the most frequently encountered cardiovascular disease (six cases), followed by atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (four cases), conduction system pathology (three cases), anomalous origin of right coronary artery from the wrong aortic sinus (two cases), and mitral valve prolapse (two cases). in two athletes, the abrupt lethal complication was "mechanical" and consisted of pulmonary embolism and rupture of the aorta; in three athletes, death was due to a cerebral cause. all athletes with right ventricular cardiomyopathy died during effort, and most had a history of palpitations and/or syncope. whenever available, electrocardiographic (ecg) tracings showed inverted t waves in precordial leads and/or left bundle branch block ventricular arrhythmias. conclusions: clinicopathologic correlations indicate that in the veneto region of italy, right ventricular cardiomyopathy is not so rare among the cardiovascular diseases associated with the risk of arrhythmic cardiac arrest, and seems to account for the majority of cases of sudden death in young athletes; this disorder can be suspected during life on the basis of prodromal symptoms and ecg signs.
planar imaging techniques used with technetium-99m sestamibi to evaluate chronic myocardial ischemia. the results of published and some unpublished studies comparing planar imaging performed with 2 radionuclides, thallium-201 (t1-201) and technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi, are reviewed. the average sensitivity for the detection of coronary artery disease (cad) in studies involving 594 patients was 85% (range 73 to 96%). the average sensitivity for individual vessels was 65% (range 60 to 70%). the average segmental concordance between t1-201 and tc-99m sestamibi was 89%. end-diastolic gated perfusion images improved the concordance between tc-99m sestamibi and angiography in 22 patients from 83.4 to 87%. semiquantitative analysis increased the concordance between t1-201 and tc-99m sestamibi from 89 to 91%. ventricular function derived from gated tc-99m sestamibi perfusion images showed a significant correlation with echocardiography (n = 62, r = 0.85); with angiography (n = 70, r = 0.91); and with equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography (n = 18, r = 0.86). the ratio of lung to left ventricle uptake and the ratio of right ventricle to left ventricle uptake was assessed. eight of 52 patients had an abnormally elevated lung index (greater than 42%) and these patients had the most severe cad. six of the 52 patients had an abnormally elevated right ventricular index (greater than 56%) and these patients had more severe cad.
factors affecting recurrence in lumpectomy without irradiation for breast cancer. between 1980 and 1988, 122 women with operable invasive breast cancers underwent wide excision and axillary dissection without subsequent irradiation. during the follow-up period of 1 to 8 years (median, 4 years), recurrences were observed in 23 patients (19%), 22 occurring in the breast and one in the axilla. this is a significant rate of recurrence and supports the need for breast irradiation after conservative surgery. the incidence of recurrence in the breast did not appear to be related to the presence or absence of axillary nodal metastasis. no recurrences were noted in 20 patients whose primary tumors were smaller than 1 cm. the incidence of recurrence was directly correlated to the increasing size of the tumor, but it also appeared to decrease with advancing age. in 31 patients over 70 years of age, only one (3%) recurrence was observed. if these early findings are confirmed, it is likely that patients with tumors smaller than 1 cm or patients over 70 years of age may be spared breast irradiation after wide excision.
oncocytic renal tubular adenoma (so-called oncocytoma) in seventeen-year-old girl. renal tubular neoplasms (adenomas or adenocarcinomas) are rare in children or young adults. herein, we report an oncocytic renal tubular adenoma (so-called oncocytoma) that was found in a seventeen-year-old girl. preoperative evaluation included aspiration of this tumor, and we suggest that preoperative aspiration is an important procedure in the diagnosis and management of suspected renal tumors in children and young adults.
myoglobin depletes renal adenine nucleotide pools in the presence and absence of shock. to assess whether myoglobin adversely affects renal adenylate pools, rats were infused with purified myoglobin (50 mg/100 g body wt) for two hours and renal atp, adp, and amp levels were measured in the absence of shock, after 25 minutes of hemorrhagic shock (55 to 60 mm hg) or 30 minutes post-recovery. in the absence of shock, myoglobin lowered atp by 24% (assessed 65 min post-infusion) without affecting renal blood flow (rbf). this effect was completely blocked by deferoxamine (dfo) treatment and it could not be reproduced by ribonuclease infusion (a non-fe containing, but filtered, protein). myoglobin + shock caused a three- to fourfold greater decline in atp than did shock alone despite comparable rbfs. shock plus myoglobin, but neither one alone, induced substantial s1/s2 proximal tubular morphologic damage and a severe reduction in creatinine clearance, confirming synergistic injury. ribonuclease completely reproduced myoglobin's effect on shock-induced adenylate profiles. dfo +/- hydroxyl radical scavenger therapy (na benzoate) did not block the myoglobin shock effect on adenylate pools. post-shock adenylate recovery was not compromised by myoglobin pre-treatment. if renal artery occlusion (rao), rather than shock, was used as the ischemic challenge, myoglobin had no discernible impact on adenine nucleotide content. this study concludes that: 1) myoglobin modestly lowers baseline adenylate pools due to an fe dependent mechanism; 2) myoglobin drastically accentuates shock-induced adenylate depletion by a non-hemodynamic/non-fe dependent mechanism; 3) myoglobin nephrotoxicity cannot be attributed solely to tissue iron loading; and 4) the rao model can completely mask important influences on ischemic cellular energetics.
rehabilitation in spinal cord disorders. 2. anatomy, pathogenesis, and research for neurologic recovery. this self-directed learning module highlights advances in this topic area. it is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in spinal cord disorders in the self-directed medical knowledge program study guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. this article contains learning objectives on the anatomy of the spine and spinal cord, pathogenesis of spinal cord trauma, mechanisms of spinal fractures and dislocations, causes of nontraumatic spinal cord disorders, and research on neurologic recovery. advances that are covered in this section include various experimental animal models for producing spinal cord injury and new approaches to limit damage in acute injury and to promote recovery in chronic injury.
patients with two types of atrioventricular junctional (av nodal) reentrant tachycardia. evidence that a common pathway of nodal tissue is not present above the reentrant circuit. background. the site of the reentrant circuit in atrioventricular (av) junctional reentrant tachycardia has not been defined; in particular, the existence of a common pathway of av nodal tissue above the reentrant circuit is controversial. methods and results. two types of av junctional reentrant tachycardia were induced in each of three patients at electrophysiological study. in one type of tachycardia (anterior), the onset of atrial activity occurred from 0 to 12 msec before the onset of ventricular activation, and earliest atrial activity was recorded near the his bundle. in the second type of tachycardia (posterior), the ventriculoatrial intervals were longer (76-168 msec), and earliest atrial activity was recorded near the mouth of the coronary sinus. in individual patients, the two types of tachycardia had different cycle lengths. posterior av junctional reentrant tachycardia was not a fast-slow form of av junctional reentry in at least two of the three patients. surgical cure was attempted in two patients. in one patient, anterior av junctional reentrant tachycardia was abolished by dissection of the anterior perinodal atrium, but posterior av junctional reentrant tachycardia could still be induced. at reoperation 4 months later, dissection of the posterior perinodal atrium abolished posterior av junctional reentrant tachycardia while preserving av conduction. conclusion. differences in ventriculoatrial intervals and cycle lengths and the results of selective surgery suggest that the two types of av junctional reentrant tachycardia used different reentrant circuits. these observations imply that a common pathway of av nodal tissue is not present above the reentrant circuit and suggest that perinodal atrium is part of these circuits.
a controlled trial of nebulized isoetharine in the prehospital treatment of acute asthma. acute asthma is a potentially life-threatening disorder, recognizable to the prehospital care provider. while therapies are available to the prehospital care provider for treating acute asthma, no previous controlled studies have been performed demonstrating the treatment in the field is efficacious and safe. the authors conducted a controlled trial of the prehospital use of nebulized isoetharine in an urban emergency medical services system. fifty-two patients with acute asthma were studied. patients were initially evaluated with a peak flow meter. half of the patients received isoetharine, while the control group received basic life support only. there was no difference in baseline values. peak expiratory flow increased from 138 l/min to 148 l/min in the control group, while it increased from 149 l/min to 218 l/min in the treatment group (p less than .001). the authors conclude that paramedic treatment of acute asthma with nebulized isoetharine is effective in improving pulmonary function and clinical status during transport.
utility of upright tilt-table testing in the evaluation and management of syncope of unknown origin purpose: vasovagally mediated hypotension and bradycardia are believed to be common, but difficult to diagnose, causes of syncope. upright tilt-table testing has been proposed as a possible way to test for vasovagal episodes. this study investigated the clinical utility of this technique in the evaluation and management of patients with syncope of unknown origin. patients and methods: twenty-five patients with recurrent unexplained syncope and six control subjects were evaluated by use of an upright tilt-table test for 30 minutes, with or without an infusion of isoproterenol (1 to 3 micrograms/minute given intravenously), in an attempt to provoke bradycardia, hypotension, or both. of the 25 patients, there were 14 males and 11 females, with a mean age of 50 +/- 16 years. six control patients with no history of syncope were also studied. all tilt-positive patients received therapy with either beta-blockers, disopyramide, transdermal scopolamine, or hydroflurocortisone, the efficacy of which was evaluated by another tilt-table test. results: syncope occurred in six patients (24%) during the baseline tilt and in nine patients (36%) during isoproterenol infusion (total positives, 60%). none of the controls had syncope during the test. all patients who had positive test results eventually became tilt-table-negative by therapy, and over a mean follow-up period of 16 +/- 2 months no further episodes have occurred. conclusion: from this study we conclude that upright tilt-table testing combined with isoproterenol infusion is clinically useful in the diagnosis of vasovagal syncope and the evaluation of pharmacologic therapy.
immunopathology of diabetes in the rt6-depleted diabetes-resistant bb/wor rat. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus appears to be an autoimmune disease that is characterized morphologically by insulitis, an inflammation of the pancreatic islets of langerhans that results in the destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells. the rt6-depleted dr rat provides a good model for the in situ study of insulitis. the authors used the anti-rt6.1 monoclonal antibody to selectively deplete rt6 t cells in dr rats and produce a synchronous and rapid development of insulitis that commences 10 days after treatment. the phenotype of cells that infiltrated the islets at different stages of insulitis in the rt6-depleted dr rat was determined by immunocytochemical techniques. a prodromal period of 10 days was present in which the authors could not detect morphologic alterations within the pancreas. this is followed by a second phase of early insulitis in which a few islets are infiltrated by macrophages and t cells. this rapidly progresses by 18 days to the final phase of generalized insulitis in which the islets are massively infiltrated by macrophages and t cells.
bioenergetic recovery processes of injured myocardium. we employed cervically transplanted nonworking myocardium to simulate the condition of a heart supported by a ventricular assist device, and to investigate the bioenergetic recovery processes of injured myocardium with 31p nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) techniques. a heterotopic graft was placed in the cervical portion of a recipient rat. one week later, a control 31p nmr spectrum was obtained from the graft. on the same day, the aorta of the graft was clamped for 30 minutes at room temperature. after this procedure, 31p nmr measurements of the graft were performed for 1 week. the phosphocreatine (pcr)/inorganic phosphate (pi) ratio, and beta-phosphate from adenosine triphosphate (beta-atp)/pi ratio on the first and second day after injury were significantly lower than control (p less than 0.05). however, these ratios recovered to a significant extent on the third and fourth day. these results suggest that 3 or 4 days are required for bioenergetic recovery of reversibly injured myocardium, even under nonworking conditions.
glucose disposal, beta-cell secretion, and hepatic insulin extraction in cirrhosis: a minimal model assessment. factors controlling glucose metabolism after iv load were studied in nine patients with compensated cirrhosis and in six age-matched controls. the time courses of glucose, insulin, and c peptide were analyzed by means of the minimal model technique. in cirrhosis, insulin sensitivity was reduced by approximately 70% and glucose-dependent glucose uptake (glucose effectiveness) by 45%. decreased glucose effectiveness explained 65% of the variance of glucose disappearance and correlated with the ratio of urinary creatinine to height, an independent measure of muscle mass (r = 0.839). beta-cell responsiveness to glucose, measured on c-peptide kinetics, was variable and increased on average by 170% and 107% (first-phase and second-phase, respectively). the total amount of insulin secreted by beta-cells in the course of the study was nearly doubled, whereas the basal insulin secretion rate was in the normal range. the time courses of hepatic extraction of insulin did not differ between groups, and basal extraction was on average 58% in controls and 56% in patients with cirrhosis. it was reduced to 30% in a single patient who had severe hepatocellular failure and large spontaneous portosystemic shunting. we conclude that the alterations in glucose metabolism of cirrhosis include a decreased insulin sensitivity, a reduced glucose effectiveness, and an increased pancreatic responsiveness to glucose, leading to hyperinsulinemia. the hepatic extraction of insulin is reduced only in the very advanced stages of the disease, possibly because of a large reserve capacity of the hepatic parenchyma.
ocular adnexal kaposi's sarcoma in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. we examined histopathologically 18 ocular adnexal kaposi's sarcoma lesions related to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. these lesions were classified into three types. type i consisted of thin, dilated vascular channels lined by flat endothelial cells with lumen-containing erythrocytes. type ii featured plump, fusiform, endothelial cells, often with a hyperchromatic nucleus and foci of immature spindle cells and occasional slit vessels. type iii was characterized by large aggregates of densely packed spindle cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, occasional mitotic figures, and abundant slit spaces often containing erythrocytes in between. clinically, type i and type ii tumors were patchy and flat (less than 3 mm in height) and of less than four months' duration. type iii tumors were nodular and elevated (greater than 3 mm in height). we describe the clinical and histopathologic types of kaposi's sarcoma that may help in diagnosis.
aggravation of human and experimental myasthenia gravis by contrast media. after observing a 72-year-old myasthenic patient develop an acute myasthenic exacerbation following the administration of routine diagnostic iv contrast material, an observation rarely described in the literature, we used the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis model in rabbits injected with a contrast agent to simulate the situation. there was significant worsening of the decremental response to 3 hz repetitive nerve stimulation from 40 +/- 29% to 55 +/- 27% following the iv administration of contrast agent at doses similar to those used in humans. iv calcium partially reversed this aggravation. caution is merited when myasthenic patients are administered contrast media.
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. iii. development of a definitive surgical procedure. on the basis of the known electrophysiologic mechanisms of atrial fibrillation, multiple surgical procedures were designed and tested in dogs to determine the feasibility of developing a surgical cure for human atrial fibrillation. these experimental studies culminated in a surgical approach that effectively creates an electrical maze in the atrium. the atrial incisions prevent atrial reentry and allow sinus impulses to activate the entire atrial myocardium, thereby preserving atrial transport function postoperatively. since september 1987, this surgical procedure has been applied in seven patients, five with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation of 2 to 9 years' duration and two with chronic atrial fibrillation of 3 and 10 years' duration. all seven patients have been cured of atrial fibrillation and none is receiving any postoperative antiarrhythmic medications.
morbidity, mortality, and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years. in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, stroke, cancer, and death (the status of 99.7% of the initial participants was established). the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality. of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981, 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits. these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease, and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data, with the exception of a slightly higher body mass, taller stature, and lower serum cholesterol concentration. the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function. we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy.
the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome. a patient developed isolated numbness, 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip, but later involving the cheek, lower lip, upper gingiva, and the palate. this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop (the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome). squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve. cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches.
fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis and management of fibroadenoma of the breast. cytological and histological biopsies were obtained on 75 breast lumps clinically diagnosed as fibroadenomas. of these, 95 per cent of lesions were benign. in 51 (68 per cent) confirmed as fibroadenomas histologically, cytology was benign in 78 per cent, but inadequate for diagnosis in 16 per cent. the remaining 24 lesions included three breast cancers and one lymph node with hodgkin's disease. in this group cytology was inadequate for diagnosis in 54 per cent, including one breast cancer. no lesion with benign cytology was subsequently shown to be malignant. the study supports the view that clinical diagnosis and cytology are accurate in the diagnosis of benign breast disease of this type. breast cancer may rarely present with the clinical features of a fibroadenoma and too few lesions have been studied to assess fully the performance of cytological biopsy in detecting these small mobile lesions. a non-excisional policy should therefore include prolonged follow-up and repeat biopsy.
pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma with pseudosarcomatous mural nodules. a report of a case with immunohistochemical study. a case of pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma (pmc) with two pseudosarcomatous mural nodules (pmn) is described. these nodules have not been previously described in this type of tumor. in ovarian mucinous tumors (omt), similar nodules have been reported, the nature of which has been discussed in detail. here the similarity between the tumor described here and ovarian tumors is stressed. the immunohistochemical study carried out disclosed in the nodules strong positive staining for vimentin and moderate positivity for keratin and epithelial membrane antigen. these findings, along with histologic details, favor the epithelial nature of the nodules. it was concluded that the nodules are foci of anaplastic carcinoma with high proliferative cell rate, which could explain the coexpression of vimentin and keratin.
endogenous opioids modulate the increase in ventilatory output and dyspnea during severe acute bronchoconstriction. the aim of this study was to evaluate whether endogenous opioids are involved in the regulation of breathing pattern and respiratory drive during bronchoconstriction induced by methacholine (mch). we studied six male asymptomatic asthmatics 18 to 35 yr of age. in a preliminary study we determined the concentration of mch causing a 60% fall in fev1 (pc60 fev1). on two subsequent days, we measured breathing pattern, dyspnea sensation (borg scale), mouth occlusion pressure (p0.1), and fev1 before and 10 min after an intravenous injection of either naloxone (0.1 mg/kg) or saline according to a randomized double-blind crossover design. a mch concentration equal to the pc60 fev1 was then inhaled, and measurements were repeated 5 min later. neither placebo nor naloxone affected baseline breathing pattern, p0.1, and fev1. naloxone pretreatment did not influence airway response to mch; the mean percent fall in fev1 was 65.9 +/- 1.3 and 64.7 +/- 1.2% (mean +/- 1 se) on the placebo day and the naloxone day, respectively. after mch inhalation no significant changes in ve, vt, and breathing frequency occurred when patients received placebo. however, p0.1 increased from 1.48 +/- 0.17 to 3.43 +/- 0.70 cm h2o (p less than 0.05), and vt/ti fell from 0.66 +/- 0.08 to 0.52 +/- 0.04 l/s (p less than 0.05). naloxone pretreatment resulted in an increase in breathing frequency (from 18.2 +/- 1.7 to 22.8 +/- 2.6 breaths/min; p less than 0.05) and vt/ti (from 0.58 +/- 0.06 to 0.74 +/- 0.05 l/s; p less than 0.05) after mch.
lateral medullary infarction: prognosis in an unselected series. we describe the acute and long-term prognosis in 43 patients with lateral medullary infarction (lmi) collected from a population-based stroke registry from 1982 to july 1988. mean age was 63.9 years and median time of follow-up was 33 months. in the acute phase, 5 patients (11.6%) died from respiratory and cardiovascular complications and 2 new strokes occurred, both in the posterior circulation. during follow-up, recurrent vertebrobasilar territory strokes occurred in only 2 patients (a rate of 1.9% per year). the mechanisms of stroke were vertebral artery (va) branch occlusion, causing a medial medullary syndrome, and basilar artery thrombosis propagating from a contralateral, distal va stenosis. in the acute phase of lmi, respiratory and cardiovascular events, presumably caused by autonomic dysfunction related to the lateral medullary lesion, are the major hazards. recurrent posterior circulation strokes were uncommon during follow-up.
the use of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging to determine lesion site in traumatic facial paralysis. gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging has been used to evaluate 20 patients with surgically confirmed facial nerve lesions. when the nerve could be seen, gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging accurately revealed the lesion site as well as the known extent, which in some cases was not predicted by topognostic testing. this technique appears to provide accurate lesion-site testing and may have importance in surgical planning. currently used topognostic tests of facial nerve function are frequently inaccurate and can only determine the most proximal lesion site when there are multiple or extensive lesions. the focal nerve enhancement seen in nerve injury, globally increased signal intensity within the temporal bone after trauma, and increased signal intensity within the dura after surgery can occasionally mask nerve lesions and may be confused with tumors.
effects of chronic administration of a vasopressin antagonist with combined antivasopressor and antiantidiuretic activities in rats with left ventricular dysfunction. the present experiments were designed to study the long-term aquaretic effect of [d(ch2)5-d-tyr(et)vavp], an antagonist to arginine vasopressin (avp) with combined vascular (v1) and renal (v2) receptor inhibiting properties, in rats with left ventricular dysfunction resulting from myocardial infarction (mi). the continuous intravenous infusion of the avp antagonist (36 micrograms/12 microliters/day) via osmotic minipumps over 11 days resulted in an increase in urine volume and a decrease in urinary osmolality by approximately 10-fold on the first day, but in subsequent days this response decreased in both the post-mi (n = 7) and normal (n = 6) rats. nevertheless, the daily urine volume remained significantly higher and the urinary osmolality lower in the post-mi rats than in the normal ones throughout the study (p less than 0.05). in two other groups of post-mi (n = 5) and normal (n = 6) rats, intermittent intraperitoneal injections of the avp antagonist (100 micrograms/kg) every third day resulted in a profound diuresis that was reproducible by each injection and was again significantly greater in the post-mi rats than in the normal rats (p less than 0.05). the cumulative urinary output over the first 10-day period of each treatment was greater with intermittent injections than with continuous infusion in both the post-mi and normal rats, but the difference was significant only in the post-mi rats (398.82 +/- 12.87 ml vs 309.07 +/- 32.44 ml, intermittent vs continuous, respectively, p less than 0.05), even though the cumulative dose of avp antagonist given intermittently was only about one third of that given continuously.
pulmonary hypertension five years after left pneumonectomy for adenoid cystic carcinoma. we report the findings in a patient with shortness of breath due to pulmonary hypertension five years after left pneumonectomy. mediastinal recurrence of an incompletely resected and slowly growing adenoid cystic carcinoma of the left main bronchus had encased the right main pulmonary artery.
genetic construction and characterization of a fusion protein consisting of a chimeric f(ab') with specificity for carcinomas and human il-2. a genetic construct was created incorporating gene fragments encoding the h chain v region of the human carcinoma specific antibody l6, the ch1 domain of human igg1, a linker region, and human il-2. this construct was cotransfected with a chimeric l6 l chain construct into the murine myeloma cell line ag8.653 for expression. first round clones produced the fusion protein at an estimated 5 to 10 micrograms/ml based on idiotypic reactivity. dual binding activity was demonstrated through specific interaction with the l6 ag on human tumor cells and the il-2r on activated human t cells. the il-2 portion of the molecule was shown to support the growth of the il-2-dependent t cell line ctll2, and the qualitative nature of the il-2 signal was found to be the same as ril-2 with respect to induction of tyrosine-phosphorylation of intracellular protein substrates. tumor cells coated with the fusion protein were shown to cause t cell proliferation and the presence of the fusion protein was found to enhance cell-mediated destruction of human tumor cells.
epidermoid cysts of the brain stem. report of three cases. the authors report the cases of three patients with epidermoid cysts which insinuated themselves into the brain stem. in all three patients, the tumor occupied the pons, although in one it was predominantly located in the medulla. the cyst contents and nonadherent tumor capsule were removed in all three patients, but no attempt was made to remove tumor densely adherent to the brain stem. one patient's cyst was removed in one operation, but maximal resection in the other two required two operations. after surgery, sixth nerve function completely returned in one patient; another patient had a stable pontine gaze palsy but developed new facial weakness; and the third patient had stable cranial nerve deficits with a diminished hemiparesis. the last patient developed a pseudomeningocele and communicating hydrocephalus, and required a lumboperitoneal shunt. in all three patients, computerized tomography scans demonstrated hypodense tumors not enhanced by contrast material. magnetic resonance imaging was performed on two patients; in both, the tumors showed increased signal intensity relative to brain on t1-weighted images and decreased signal intensity relative to brain on t2-weighted studies. magnetic resonance imaging, the most accurate modality for localizing these lesions and determining their extent, was also invaluable for postoperative monitoring and follow-up evaluation. safe and adequate resection includes decompression of cyst contents and removal of nonadherent portions of the cyst capsule. cyst wall adherent to the brain stem, however, should not be removed.
modulation of coronary vasomotor tone in humans. progressive endothelial dysfunction with different early stages of coronary atherosclerosis. the endothelium plays a critical role in the control of vasomotor tone by the release of vasoactive substances. because endothelial injury or dysfunction is considered important very early in atherogenesis, we hypothesized that abnormal endothelial function precedes the angiographic detection of coronary atherosclerosis in the human coronary circulation. the coronary vasomotor responses to three different endothelium-mediated stimuli (intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine 10(-8) to 10(-6) m, increase in blood flow to induce flow-dependent dilation, and sympathetic stimulation by cold pressor testing) were assessed by quantitative angiography and subselective intracoronary doppler flow velocity measurements within the left anterior descending coronary artery in 38 patients. all three stimuli elicited epicardial artery dilation in all 11 patients with smooth coronary arteries and absence of risk factors for coronary artery disease (group 1). all nine patients with smooth coronary arteries but with hypercholesterolemia (group 2) demonstrated a selective impairment in endothelial function with vasoconstriction (35 +/- 12.7% decrease in mean luminal area) in response to acetylcholine but showed a preserved flow-dependent dilation (15.5 +/- 4.4% increase in mean luminal area) and vasodilation in response to cold pressor testing (14.2 +/- 4.6% increase in mean luminal area). in all nine patients with an angiographically defined smooth coronary artery segment but with evidence of atherosclerosis elsewhere in the coronary system (group 3), both acetylcholine and cold pressor testing induced vasoconstriction (26.2 +/- 8.7% and 18.7 +/- 7.9% decrease in mean luminal area, respectively), whereas flow-dependent dilation was preserved (20.4 +/- 8.7% increase in mean luminal area). in the nine patients with angiographic evidence of wall irregularities (group 4), flow-dependent dilation was also abolished and vasoconstriction occurred in response to acetylcholine and cold pressor testing (34.5 +/- 10.7% and 19.9 +/- 6.3% decrease in mean luminal area, respectively). all coronary artery segments dilated in response to nitroglycerin, suggesting preserved function of vascular smooth muscle. despite similar reductions in coronary vascular resistance in response to the smooth muscle relaxant papaverin, patients with hypercholesterolemia demonstrated a selective impairment of vasodilation of the resistance vasculature in response to acetylcholine (p less than 0.05 versus groups 1, 3, and 4). thus, there is a progressive impairment of endothelial vasoactive functioning in coronary arteries of patients with different early stages of atherosclerosis, beginning with a selective endothelial dysfunction in angiographically defined normal arteries in patients with hypercholesterolemia and progressively worsening to a complete loss of endothelium-mediated vasodilation in angiographically defined atherosclerotic coronary arteries.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
ischemic optic neuropathy. ion typically affects the older population with a sudden decrease in vision, altitudinal visual field loss, and a swollen optic nervehead. systemic hypertension and diabetes mellitus are the most commonly associated medical problems. occlusion of the posterior ciliary arterial blood supply to the retrolaminar optic nerve leads to axoplasmic stasis and further compromise of vessels in the nerve substance, which causes the typical funduscopic appearance. although there is no recognized medical treatment that can reverse the visual loss, a recent report suggests optic nerve sheath decompression for a select group of patients with a gradual decline in vision due to ion may be beneficial. when ion occurs in persons less than 50 years of age, such etiologies as juvenile diabetes mellitus, antiphospholipid antibody-associated clotting disorders, collagen-vascular disease, and migraines should be considered. rarely, complications of intraocular surgery or acute blood loss may cause an ischemic event in the optic nerve.
elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type vi collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (tgf-beta 1), type vi collagen, and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations. the immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of tgf-beta, type vi collagen, and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens. increased levels of type vi collagen mrna, as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2(vi) collagen cdna, were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis. in situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific tgf-beta 1 cdna demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine. in contrast, no hybridization signal for tgf-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis. these findings suggest that tgf-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in ems-associated diffuse fasciitis.
toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy. a pediatric oncology group study. experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (hdac) in pediatric solid tumors is limited. sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot pediatric oncology group (pog) study that required the administration of hdac at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses. there were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma, two cases of fibrosarcoma, four cases of neuroblastoma, and one case each of germ cell tumor, wilm's tumor, retinoblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, ewing's sarcoma, and burkitt's lymphoma. all eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy. thirteen patients received one course of hdac and three patients received two courses of hdac. due to prior treatments, patients had less than normal marrow reserves. short-term toxicity included nausea, vomiting, suppression of hemopoiesis, drug fever, and increased blood urea nitrogen (bun), creatinine, and liver enzymes. all evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities. there were no drug-related deaths. none of the patients had neurologic problems, including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull. with the above schedule, hdac appears to have manageable toxicity.
spermatic cord for onlay coverage of urethral defect. segmental urethral necrosis may accompany scrotoperineal gangrene, and primary closure of the urethral defect may unacceptably reduce urethral dimensions. this dilemma has been managed successfully in 5 patients by application of the intact spermatic cord to the urethral defect and approximation to its margins. a representative case is described.
synergistic effects of nerve growth factor and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor on human basophilic cell differentiation. we have recently shown that nerve growth factor (ngf) promotes human granulopoiesis, specifically augmenting basophilic cell differentiation observed in methylcellulose hematopoietic colony assays of human peripheral blood. because the ngf effect was seen in the presence of conditioned medium derived from a human t-cell line (mo-cm) containing granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), we examined interactions of purified ngf and recombinant human gm-csf (rhgm-csf) on granulocyte growth and differentiation. rhgm-csf stimulated a dose-dependent increase in methylcellulose colony growth at concentrations between 0.1 u/ml and 10 u/ml, and in the presence of ngf at 500 ng/ml this effect was enhanced. the number of basophilic cell colony-forming units (cfu-baso) and histamine-positive colonies increased synergistically when ngf was added to rhgm-csf. furthermore, because mo-cm acts with sodium butyrate to promote basophilic differentiation of alkaline-passaged myeloid leukemia cells, hl-60, we also examined the interaction of ngf and mo-cm or rhgm-csf using this assay. in the presence of ngf, mo-cm at concentrations of 0.5% to 20% vol/vol, and rhgm-csf at concentrations of 0.1 u/ml to 100 u/ml synergistically increased histamine production by butyrate-induced, alkaline-passaged hl-60 cells; this was associated with the appearance of metachromatic, tryptase-negative, ige receptor-positive cells. the effects of rhgm-csf or mo-cm were completely abrogated by a specific anti-rhgm-csf neutralizing antibody in methylcellulose, with or without ngf; the ngf synergy with rhgm-csf in the hl-60 assay was also inhibited by either anti-rhgm-csf or anti-ngf antibody. these studies support the notion that differentiation in the basophilic lineage may be enhanced by ngf acting to increase the number of gm-csf-responsive basophilic cell progenitors.
parkinsonian tremor loses its alternating aspect during non-rem sleep and is inhibited by rem sleep. non-rem sleep transforms the waking alternating parkinsonian tremor into subclinical repetitive muscle contractions whose amplitude and duration decrease as non-rem sleep progresses from stages i to iv. during rem sleep parkinsonian tremor disappears while the isolated muscle events increase significantly.
cimetidine 800 mg twice daily for healing erosions and ulcers in gastroesophageal reflux disease. although h2-receptor antagonists have been the mainstay of therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), none of these agents has been approved by the fda as effective in healing lesions. since proton pump inhibitors may be associated with long-term disadvantages, a healing regimen with cimetidine would be useful clinically. this multicenter, randomized, double-blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cimetidine 800 mg b.i.d. in healing lesions and in providing symptomatic relief in patients with ulcerative or erosive esophagitis. patients with greater than or equal to 8 heartburn episodes during a 1-week screening period, reflux confirmed by esophageal ph monitoring, and esophageal ulcers or erosions confirmed by endoscopy were randomized to treatment with placebo or cimetidine for 12 weeks. cimetidine provided significantly greater (p less than 0.01) improvement (74% vs. 51%) and complete healing (67% vs. 36%) of esophageal lesions than did placebo. in these patients with erosive or ulcerative esophagitis, the median time to achieve 24 h without heartburn was 13 days with cimetidine and 30 days with placebo (p = 0.01). the mean heartburn severity score in the cimetidine group decreased rapidly during the first week and was consistently lower than in the placebo group. cimetidine, 800 mg twice daily, is effective in promoting healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions and in providing heartburn relief in patients with symptomatic erosive/ulcerative gerd.
circulating c1q-binding macromolecules and their relationship to radiographic characteristics of laryngeal cancer. circulating macromolecules capable of binding the first component of complement (c1qbm) may represent subcellular components of tissue/tumor debris generated from rapidly proliferating invasive disease. thirty-eight patients were randomly selected from 74 untreated patients with laryngeal cancer on the basis of disease stage and c1qbm levels. c1qbm levels were correlated with computed tomographic evidence of tumor necrosis and/or thyroid cartilage destruction. results show that patients with stage iii/iv disease with tissue necrosis and/or cartilage invasion had demonstrably higher c1qbm levels than did individuals with similarly staged disease with no evidence of these radiographically defined characteristics (120 +/- 81 micrograms/ml vs 18 +/- 15 micrograms/ml); the strongest association was reflected by the area of necrosis within regional lymph metastases. elevated c1qbm level in patients with stage iii/iv laryngeal cancer thus reflects highly aggressive disease, which is less responsive to therapeutic intervention.
coeliac disease and malignancy of the duodenum: diagnosis by endoscopy, successful treatment of the malignancy, and response to a gluten free diet. a patient presented with subtotal villous atrophy and a malignant duodenal tumour of uncertain histogenesis. he was successfully treated by resection and chemotherapy and the small bowel mucosa recovered on a gluten free diet. the tumour was diagnosed at upper gastrointestinal endoscopy when barium studies and abdominal computed tomography were normal, thus making this one of the earliest coeliac malignancies diagnosed.
lack of late skin necrosis in man after high-dose irradiation using small field sizes: experiences of grid therapy. out of a total of 437 patients with superior vena caval syndrome or advanced malignancy, given single-dose grid radiotherapy, four survived to 7 years. the dose to the skin under each of the 77 holes in the grid was approximately 58 gy. the lack of skin necrosis in the total of 308 skin circles of 1 cm diameter among these survivors, compared with known necrosis rates in larger irradiated areas, implies that there is a marked field-size effect for late necrosis in small areas of irradiated skin.
intrathecal anaesthesia for day-care surgery. a retrospective study of 160 cases using 25- and 26-gauge spinal needles. the records of 160 day-care surgical patients who received intrathecal anaesthesia were reviewed. no major complications were recorded. the incidence of postspinal headache after puncture with a 25-gauge spinal needle was nearly four times more frequent compared to a 26-gauge needle. the occurrence of postspinal headache in patients over the age of 45 years was significantly less frequent (p less than 0.05) than in younger patients. intrathecal anaesthesia was acceptable to 91% of outpatients in this group.
managing geriatric arrhythmias, i: general considerations. cardiac arrhythmias become increasingly common as people age, but they are not always clinically significant. sinus node dysfunction, av conduction disturbances, and ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias will be found but are not always symptomatic. treatment of asymptomatic arrhythmias is controversial and probably not indicated, but in symptomatic elderly, therapy is indicated, since even the very elderly have been found to benefit from it as much as younger patients. there are specific guidelines, however, that apply to this age group based on its susceptibility to side effects.
health status in patients with tension headache treated with acupuncture or physiotherapy. sixty-two female patients with chronic tension headache were randomly divided into two treatment groups--acupuncture and physiotherapy. their overall function (sickness impact profile), and mental well-being (mood adjective check list) and the intensity and frequency of headache were assessed before and after treatment. before treatment the patients showed significantly more dysfunction and less positive mental well-being than a general population sample. both treatment groups improved in overall function, the physiotherapy group somewhat more. the mental well-being increased only in the physiotherapy group. the intensity and frequency of headache was significantly reduced in both the physiotherapy group and the acupuncture group. the intensity of headache was significantly more improved in the physiotherapy group. the improvement of headache intensity persisted unchanged 7-12 months after treatment.
racial differences in cerebrovascular disease hospitalizations. we studied the relationship of race to incidence of hospitalization for cerebrovascular disease among 74,096 white and 33,041 black persons who took health examinations in a prepaid health care program. analyses were controlled for age, sex, body mass index, coffee use, smoking, alcohol use, systolic blood pressure, and baseline disease. blacks were at higher hospitalization risk than whites for hemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease (relative risk = 2.4, 95% confidence interval = 1.3-5.8), cerebral thrombosis (relative risk = 1.9, 95% confidence interval = 1.2-2.9), and nonspecific cerebrovascular disease (relative risk = 1.6, 95% confidence interval = 1.2-2.2) but at lower hospitalization risk for extracranial occlusive disease (relative risk = 0.4, 95% confidence interval = 0.2-0.7). blood pressure had a similar relation to all types of cerebrovascular disease in both races, but there were disparities in the relations of other atherosclerosis risk factors to different types of cerebrovascular disease. educational attainment had little relation to hospitalization for extracranial occlusive disease, a finding that reduces the likelihood that selection bias explains the racial disparity. these data show unexplained racial differences in the type and location of cerebrovascular disease. the differences are important in understanding the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular disease and have practical clinical implications.
aortic replacement with composite grafts created with a sutureless intraluminal ringed prosthesis. from 1980 to 1988, 30 patients from a total population of 123 recipients of sutureless grafts (24%) have required aortic reconstruction with a composite ringed graft. replacement of the ascending aorta was required in 12 patients, of the aortic arch in six patients, of the descending aorta in two patients, of the thoracoabdominal aorta in two patients, and of the abdominal aorta in eight patients. eight patients (27%) needed an emergency operation at the time of admission. no patients had permanent neurologic or renal deficits. there was no evidence of pseudoaneurysm formation, graft erosion, graft migration, or aortic bleeding in the postoperative period. two operative deaths (7%) occurred, both in patients undergoing arch reconstruction. composite grafts can be created that vary in length and shape, incorporate different graft materials, and accommodate the aorta and its branches. the ability to modify the sutureless prosthesis to suit the disease encountered at operation allows the quickest repair with the least chance of anastomotic complication.
prostatic duct adenocarcinoma. findings at radical prostatectomy. previous studies of prostatic duct adenocarcinoma have reported a poor prognosis, but they included few patients treated by radical prostatectomy. the authors studied 15 cases treated with radical prostatectomy to define more completely their pathologic features and determine the clinical outcome in these surgically treated patients. the study included morphometry and dna image analysis using the cas-200 system. the most common presentation was urinary outlet obstruction (n = 9), and most patients were clinical stage b with palpable prostatic lesions (n = 12). compared with acinar cancers of similar clinical stage, duct cancers were large (tumor volume, 8.4 +/- 10.0 cc) and occupied a large portion of the gland (23 +/- 21%). duct cancers were in an advanced final pathologic stage with 93% having capsular penetration, 47% positive margins, 40% seminal vesicle invasion, and 27% positive pelvic lymph nodes. the dna analysis on cells disaggregated from paraffin revealed that 54% of cases were diploid, 15% tetraploid, 8% aneuploid, and 23% tetraploid/aneuploid. on clinical follow-up, eight patients had no evidence of tumor at intervals ranging from 1 to 28 months, and seven patients (47%) had persistent tumor at intervals of 3 to 18 months. this study demonstrates that duct cancers are in an advanced pathologic stage by the time of presentation and have a much higher short-term failure rate after radical prostatectomy compared with acinar cancers.
mechanical deficit persists during long-term muscle hypertrophy. hypotheses were tested that the deficit in maximum isometric force normalized to muscle cross-sectional area (i.e., specific po, n/cm2) of hypertrophied muscle would return to control value with time and that the rate and magnitude of adaptation of specific force would not differ between soleus and plantaris muscles. ablation operations of the gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles or the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were done to induce hypertrophy of synergistic muscle left intact in female wistar rats (n = 47) at 5 wk of age. the hypertrophied soleus and plantaris muscles and control muscles from other age-matched rats (n = 22) were studied from days 30 to 240 thereafter. po was measured in vitro at 25 degrees c in oxygenated krebs-ringer bicarbonate. compared with control values, soleus muscle cross-sectional area increased 41-15% from days 30 to 240 after ablation, whereas po increased 11 and 15% only at days 60 and 90. compared with control values, plantaris muscle cross-sectional area increased 52% at day 30, 40% from days 60 through 120, and 15% at day 240. plantaris muscle po increased 25% from days 30 to 120 but at day 240 was not different from control value. changes in muscle architecture were negligible after ablation in both muscles. specific po was depressed from 11 to 28% for both muscles at all times. at no time after the ablation of synergistic muscle did the increased muscle cross-sectional area contribute fully to isometric force production.
needs and recommendations for behavior research in the prevention and early detection of cancer. because life-style patterns affect many cancer risks, research on health-risk behavior and behavior change is critical to cancer prevention. this report recommends priorities for the next decade of psychosocial research on cancer prevention and detection. the leading priority for future research is to fill gaps in basic knowledge left by the rush to intervention and outcome studies. such research must be theoretically driven and should aim to develop broad principles applicable to diverse health behaviors. studies that include relevant process data on various stages of behavior change are considered more desirable than simple outcome studies. epidemiologic investigations should be expanded to include measures of relevant behaviors, so that their impact on clinical outcomes might be established. more research is needed on lay perception of health risks and on individual and health-system barriers to effective cancer prevention and detection. studies that address the needs of minority and underprivileged populations are crucial. funding agencies' narrow categorical mandates impede interdisciplinary research on multiple risk factors and their interactions; these boundaries must be relaxed to promote such approaches. funding agencies should also consider basic research as a long-term investment towards the development of effective interventions.
stools containing altered blood-plasma urea: creatinine ratio as a simple test for the source of bleeding. the plasma urea:creatinine ratio (u:c ratio) is known to be elevated in cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. almost all patients with haematemesis have upper gastrointestinal (or generalized) bleeding so that in this study we characterized the diagnostic power of the u:c ratio in patients with stools containing altered blood without haematemesis in the hope that this simple laboratory test (used in conjunction, perhaps, with clinical data) might reduce the number of patients subjected to an unrewarding gastroscopy or colonoscopy. of 76 cases seen in a provincial and a metropolitan hospital, 42 and 34 patients had upper and lower gastrointestinal bleeding, respectively. fifty-four per cent of those with upper gastrointestinal bleeding and none of those with lower gastrointestinal bleeding had u:c ratios above 110 on admission. however, a discriminating level of 90 is considered to be more suitable, judged by the quadratic uncertainty score. at this level the odds for upper gastrointestinal bleeding were 15:1.
hindbrain ischemia produced by bilateral vertebral artery occlusion and moderate hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. hindbrain ischemia was induced by bilateral vertebral artery occlusion and moderate hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrs). mean arterial blood pressure was lowered to 80 mmhg in shrs and to 50 mmhg in wistar-kyoto rats (wkys) by a controlled hemorrhage, and then the vertebral artery was bilaterally occluded through alar foramina of the first cervical vertebra. following vertebral occlusion, blood flow of the cerebellum was significantly decreased to 9.4 +/- 2.0 ml/100g/min (+/- sem) while flow of the cerebrum remained at 32.1 +/- 5.4 in shrs. in contrast, cerebellar blood flow in wkys was preserved at 24.2 +/- 2.9 ml/100g/min. brain lactate, pyruvate, and adenosine triphosphate (atp) were determined in shrs after sixty minutes of hypotension with or without vertebral occlusion. although infratentorial metabolites were actually unaltered in rats with hypotension alone, infratentorial lactate and lactate/pyruvate ratio significantly increased to 14.38 +/- 3.61 mmol/kg and 67.7 +/- 12.1, respectively, with a concomitant decrease in atp in shrs with hypotension and vertebral occlusion. bilateral vertebral artery occlusion, together with moderate hypotension, was shown to produce a marked reduction of cerebellar blood flow and to induce ischemic metabolic changes in the infratentorial brain in shrs.
randomised single blind trial to compare the toxicity of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime in cataract surgery. comparatively little attention has been paid to the conjunctival toxicity of antibiotics administered at the time of cataract surgery. we have observed the effect of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime injection, using colour photography in a randomised single blind trial of 121 patients undergoing routine cataract surgery. our results suggest that a hyperaemic eye is likely to occur about twice as often in patients injected with gentamicin (p less than 0.001). gentamicin is associated with more pain postoperatively (p less than 0.05). significant manifestations of gentamicin toxicity are conjunctival oedema and capillary closure. cefuroxime has some theoretical advantages over gentamicin in its antibacterial spectrum.
safety and efficacy of thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava syndrome the experience at the cleveland clinic from 1982 to 1990 using thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava (svc) syndrome was retrospectively reviewed. sixteen patients, 11 of whom had indwelling central venous catheters, were treated with either urokinase (n = 11) or streptokinase (n = 5). either urokinase (4,400 u/kg bolus followed by 4,400 u/kg/h) or streptokinase (250,000 u bolus followed by 100,000 u/h) was used, and venograms were performed before and after. overall, 56 percent of patients had complete clot lysis and relief of symptoms. thrombolytic therapy was effective in eight (73 percent) of 11 patients receiving urokinase and one (20 percent) of five patients receiving streptokinase. of those with a central venous catheter, eight (73 percent) of 11 patients were successfully lysed, whereas only one (20 percent) of five patients was successfully lysed if no catheter was present. if thrombolytic therapy was performed less than or equal to five days of symptom onset, seven (88 percent) of eight patients were successful, if thrombolytic therapy was performed greater than five days after symptom onset, two (25 percent) of eight patients were successful. symptoms were relieved and the catheter was preserved in patients in whom thrombolytic therapy was effective. factors predicting success were as follows: (1) the use of urokinase compared with streptokinase; (2) the presence of a central venous catheter; and (3) a duration of symptoms less than or equal to five days.
changes of serum hepatitis b virus dna and aminotransferase levels during the course of chronic hepatitis b virus infection in children. during a follow-up period of 3.2 +/- 1.6 (1 to 8.6) yr, 1,087 serum specimens from 230 hbsag carrier children were tested for hepatitis b virus markers. dividing the serum specimens into four groups according to the status of hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna, the frequency of abnormally elevated alt levels in serum was in the following order: hbeag(+)/hepatitis b virus dna(-) serum (60%), hbeag(-)/hepatitis b virus dna(+) serum (53%), hbeag(+)/hepatitis b virus dna(+) serum (41%), hbeag(-)/hepatitis b virus dna(-) serum (11%). analysis of the data before hbeag clearance showed that both a high serum alt level and a low serum hepatitis b virus dna level correlated with an imminent clearance of hbeag. approximately two thirds of children with serum alt levels higher than 100 iu/l cleared hbeag within the following year. clearance of hbeag occurred within the following year in 65% (13 of 20) of cases with serum hepatitis b virus dna level less than or equal to 1,000 pg/ml, in contrast to 19% (30 of 157) of those with serum hepatitis b virus dna level greater than 1,000 pg/ml. among 53 children who lost hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna during follow-up, only nine cases did not have an identified period of abnormal serum alt levels. for the remaining 44 children, abnormal serum alt levels fell to normal with clearance of both hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna in 33 children but remained elevated in the remaining 11 cases after seroconversion.
transbronchial biopsies in children after heart-lung transplantation. sixty transbronchial biopsies have been performed in eight children after heart-lung transplantation. the selection of fiber-optic bronchoscope or a small (4 mm; 30 cm) rigid bronchoscope was made according to the size of endotracheal tube required at surgery. if the endotracheal tube was size 7.5 or greater, a fiber-optic bronchoscope was used, whereas if the endotracheal tube size was below 7, a rigid bronchoscope was used. for the diagnosis of lung rejection, the histology of biopsies revealed a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 69% (similar to the result in adults). the histology also distinguished lung infection from rejection. complications included three pneumothoraces and two clinically significant episodes of hemorrhage, one of which led to a cardiorespiratory arrest, which may have been caused by hypoxia. as a result, arterial oxygen saturation is now monitored during the procedure using a pulse oximeter.
a randomized clinical study of a calcium-entry blocker (lidoflazine) in the treatment of comatose survivors of cardiac arrest. brain resuscitation clinical trial ii study group background. abnormalities of cellular calcium homeostasis have been implicated in the pathophysiology of postischemic encephalopathy. calcium-entry-blocking drugs inhibit the influx of calcium into cells and have been shown to mitigate postischemic encephalopathy in animal models. methods. five hundred twenty patients with cardiac arrest who remained comatose after the restoration of spontaneous circulation were randomly assigned to receive three doses of lidoflazine, an experimental calcium-entry blocker, or a placebo and were followed for six months. four patients were lost to follow-up. treated patients received an intravenous loading dose (1 mg per kilogram of body weight) of lidoflazine and two subsequent doses (0.25 mg per kilogram) 8 and 16 hours after resuscitation. the investigators were blinded to treatment assignment. results. there was no statistically significant difference between the lidoflazine group (n = 259) and the placebo group (n = 257) in the proportion of patients who died during the six-month follow-up (82 vs. 83 percent), who survived with good cerebral recovery (15 vs. 13 percent), or who survived with severe neurologic deficit (1.2 vs. 1.9 percent). analysis of the best level of recovery achieved at any time during follow-up also did not show a difference between the treatment groups: 24 percent of those given lidoflazine and 23 percent of those given placebo recovered good cerebral function (normal or only moderately disabled cerebral performance) at some time. conclusions. the administration of lidoflazine after cardiac arrest was not found to be beneficial. our data do not support the routine use of this calcium-entry-blocking drug in comatose survivors of cardiac arrest.
prolonged cardiac preservation. evaluation of the university of wisconsin preservation solution by comparison with the st. thomas' hospital cardioplegic solutions in the rat. the university of wisconsin solution differs from other types of solutions used for organ preservation because it contains high-energy phosphate precursors (adenosine and phosphate), impermeants (lactobionate and raffinose), an oncotic agent (pentafraction), and antioxidants (allopurinol and glutathione). these components have the potential to enhance the preservation of atp, reduce intracellular and extracellular edema, and attenuate free-radical-mediated injury. the university of wisconsin solution has been demonstrated to enhance and extend the preservation of the liver, pancreas, and kidney, but its potential role in the heart remains unproven. we have evaluated the university of wisconsin solution (du pont) by comparing it with the st. thomas' hospital cardioplegic solutions no. 1 and no. 2 (plegisol), which are used in europe and the united states for routine cardiac surgery and transplantation. for each solution, 10 isolated working rat hearts were arrested by 10 ml of the solution (at 4 degrees c) and then maintained immersed in the same solution for 4 hours at 4 degrees c. mean recovery of functional indexes (expressed as a percentage of their preischemic control values) after use of the university of wisconsin solution were as follows: peak aortic pressure, 90.6 +/- 1.0; dp/dt, 71.5 +/- 5.5; aortic flow, 81.6 +/- 4.7; coronary flow, 87.5 +/- 3.5; and cardiac output, 82.6 +/- 3.5. in contrast, the mean recoveries after st. thomas' hospital solution no. 1 were as follows: peak aortic pressure, 82.8 +/- 1.3; dp/dt, 49.7 +/- 3.0; aortic flow, 58.4 +/- 5.3; coronary flow, 79.6 +/- 5.9; and cardiac output, 63.0 +/- 4.9. in contrast still, mean recoveries after st. thomas' hospital solution no. 2 were as follows: peak aortic pressure, 83.1 +/- 1.2; dp/dt, 40.7 +/- 6.1; aortic flow, 37.0 +/- 5.1; coronary flow, 65.8 +/- 3.6; and cardiac output, 43.1 +/- 5.6. the recovery of all indexes were significantly superior (p less than 0.005) after preservation with university of wisconsin solution compared with either of the st. thomas' hospital solutions.
adaptive hyperphagia in patients with postsurgical malabsorption. the specific nutritional consequences of malabsorption after small-bowel surgery were studied in a consecutive series of 48 ambulatory patients who had had small-bowel resection (n = 43) or bypass (n = 5) and in 10 patients who had an ileal pouch (n = 10). the patients received a 3-day standardized oral regimen providing daily 30 kcal/kg of ideal body weight (ibw). throughout the study, 41 patients had malabsorption (fecal fat greater than 5%); 17 had fecal fat less than 5% and served as controls. the malabsorption patients absorbed 70% of protein and 71% of fat. twenty-one were normonourished and 20 had features of mild energy malnutrition, vs. 15 and 2 controls, respectively. compared with controls, malabsorption patients had decreased body weight and triceps skin-fold but no features of protein malnutrition. their mean daily food intake at home was significantly enhanced (39.6 +/- 13.1 kcal/ibw kg) vs. controls (28.8 +/- 5.8 kcal/ibw kg, p less than 0.001). in the malabsorption group, caloric intake was higher in the normonourished patients than in those with mild malnutrition. this study shows that a chronic malabsorption has limited nutritional consequences. the patients compensate for their absorptive handicap by increasing their oral intake.
self-report of physical activity and patterns of mortality in seventh-day adventist men. the adventist mortality study provides 26-year follow-up through 1985 for 9484 males who completed a lifestyle questionnaire in 1960. the relationship of self-reported physical activity and all cause and disease-specific mortality was examined by survival analysis and with the cox proportional hazards model, controlling for demographic and lifestyle characteristics. moderate activity was associated with a protective effect on cardiovascular and all cause mortality in both analyses. in the cox model, age-specific estimates of relative risk (rr) were obtained for several endpoints due to a significant interaction between level of physical activity and attained age (age at death or end of follow-up). this model permits calculation of the age at which the rr = 1.0, or the age at crossover of risk. for moderate activity, this age was 95.6 years (95% confidence intervals, 81.7-109.4 years) for all cause mortality and 91.5 years (95% confidence intervals, 79.0-104.0 years) for cardiovascular mortality. while the protective effect on mortality associated with moderate activity decreased with increasing age, it remained significant to the verge of the present life span.
code 9: a systematic approach for responding to medical emergencies occurring in and around a hospital. members of the public expect to receive efficient and appropriate medical care if they become acutely ill or injured while in or around a hospital. our institution became aware of the need for an organized system to respond to such emergencies involving patients, visitors, local community residents, and hospital employees, both inside the hospital and on the grounds surrounding the building. a search of the literature did not provide information regarding such a response; a survey of surrounding hospitals revealed no such plan in effect in other institutions. we therefore designed a plan to be superimposed onto our existing system for responding to in-house cardiac and respiratory arrests ("codes"). the results after one and one-half years appear encouraging. we recommend the establishment of such an emergency response system in all health care institutions.
reliability of colposcopy and directed punch biopsy a group of 118 women underwent laser cone biopsy. data were collected routinely on proforma case notes and entered into a computerized database. the histology of the cone biopsies was compared with that of previous, colposcopically directed punch biopsies, with the cytology of smears taken in the clinic and with the colposcopic diagnosis. the punch biopsy had a 54% false negative rate and neither of the two microinvasive carcinomas biopsied in this way were detected by the biopsy. ten of 24 women with negative punch biopsies had cin iii in the cone. when the punch biopsy showed cin ii or worse, the cone biopsy confirmed the presence of cin in 86%. there was some evidence of false negative cone biopsies. the data suggest that management should not be based solely upon the punch biopsy result but should include consideration of the cytology and colposcopy findings. excisional methods of treatment are more likely to reveal early invasion and adenocarcinoma-in-situ.
very high blood pressure in acute stroke. in a study sample consisting of 388 unselected, consecutive acute stroke patients, 27 with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 200 mmhg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 115 mmhg were compared with the other 361 patients. the patients with high blood pressure were younger (65 vs. 73 years) and much more often had a history of hypertension (78 vs. 42%). cardiac and vascular hypertensive manifestations were more frequent, particularly when only those patients with a history of hypertension were compared in the two groups. alcohol abuse was mentioned in a higher proportion of hypertensives in the summaries of their medical records. no definite conclusions could be drawn with regard to the size and location of the brain lesions. clinical symptoms did not differ between the groups, neither did the proportion of patients who could be discharged from hospital immediately. mortality was higher in the high blood pressure group (30 vs. 14%, p less than 0.05). thus the characteristics of patients with very high blood pressure were: younger age, much more frequent and severe previous hypertension. alcohol abuse might be an important factor. the type, size and location of the brain lesion itself could not be statistically related to the high blood pressure, but very large lesions, particularly haemorrhages, might be associated with a reactive blood pressure response.
imaging the gallbladder: a historical perspective. after wilhelm conrad roentgen's discovery of the x-ray in 1895, it was initially thought that gallstones could not be visualized. surgeons relied solely on the clinical examination to detect biliary disease. today, no evaluation of the gallbladder would be complete without the performance of an imaging study. radiology has gone through several eras in the imaging of gallstones. the plain film era, 1895-1924, was characterized by techniques that improved soft-tissue detail, allowing better detection of radiopaque stones. the contrast media era, 1924-1960, was initiated by the invention of iv cholecystography. in 1925, oral cholecystography was developed. during the era of expanding technology, 1960-1979, percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, scintigraphy, and sonography came into use. the therapeutic era began in the 1980s.
colonic polyamine content and ornithine decarboxylase activity as markers for adenomas. polyamine content (putrescine, spermidine, and spermine) or ornithine decarboxylase (odc) activity was measured in normal-appearing colonic mucosa from patients undergoing colonoscopy. comparisons were made between those with and those without adenomatous polyps. colonic mucosal polyamine content was measured in 44 persons. mean putrescine content was 1.25 +/- 0.26 (se) nmol/mg protein in 22 patients with adenomatous polyps compared with 0.53 +/- 0.12 nmol/mg protein in patients without polyps (p less than 0.02). tissue content of spermidine and spermine did not differ between these two groups. ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured in tissue from 45 patients. mean odc activity was 2.84 +/- 0.73 pmol/hr/mg protein in 23 persons with adenomatous polyps compared with 1.15 +/- 0.18 pmol/hr/mg protein in persons without polyps (p less than 0.05). mucosal putrescine and odc activity are elevated in patients with adenomatous polyps compared with patients without polyps. these biochemical markers may prove helpful in improving surveillance methods for colorectal cancer and premalignant adenomatous polyps.
lack of neural control and reactivity to vasoactive agents in malignant glioma arteries. vessels in malignant brain tumors have a defective blood-brain barrier. it is important to know if tumor vessels respond to vasoactive agents, since systemic administration of vasodilatory agents together with chemotherapy could increase the access of these drugs to the tumor. it was found that arteries in human malignant gliomas have no neural control and are totally nonreactive to various vasoactive agents. the vessels lose their reactivity within 1 to 2 mm outside the visible tumor front.
serum ferritin and stomach cancer risk among a japanese population. using stored serum samples collected during from 1970 to 1972 and/or 1977 to 1979 from a fixed population in hiroshima and nagasaki, japan, serum ferritin, transferrin, and ceruloplasmin levels were determined immunologically for persons in whom stomach (233 cases) or lung cancer (84 cases) subsequently developed as well as for their controls. an elevated stomach cancer risk was associated with low antecedent serum ferritin levels, with more than a threefold excess among those in the lowest compared with the highest ferritin quintile. the risk did not vary with the time between blood collection and stomach cancer onset, remaining high among those with low ferritin levels 5 or more years before cancer diagnosis. achlorhydria, diagnosed in a sample of the population about 10 years before the 1970-to-1972 blood collection and up to 25 years before cancer, was an independent marker of stomach cancer risk. in combination, low serum ferritin and achlorhydria were associated with a tenfold increase in the subsequent risk. no effect of transferrin or ceruloplasmin, independent of ferritin, was observed in the gastric cancer risk, and the risk of lung cancer was not related to these three serum proteins. these prospective findings indicate that biologic markers of an increased risk of stomach cancer can be detected long before cancer onset.
granulomatous hepatitis and fever of unknown origin. an 11-year experience of 23 cases with three years' follow-up. granulomatous hepatitis is a common cause of fever of unknown origin in up to 13% of patients with prolonged fever. attempts to define an exact etiology of the granulomatous hepatitis frequently does not yield a precise diagnosis, so that the physician must consider empiric treatment. in this paper we retrospectively review 23 patients in whom granulomatous hepatitis was found as part of the initial assessment of fever of unknown origin, and we report on their outcomes after an overall prospective follow-up of 37 months. in 26% a precise diagnosis was established at the time of assessment: q-fever in three, mycobacterial disease in two, and histoplasmosis in one. in the remaining 74% no etiology was established after 44 months follow-up. forty-one percent of the idiopathic group resolved spontaneously without therapy, and 18% received short-term prednisone or indomethacin with a favourable outcome. the remaining 41% required long-term prednisone therapy for a mean of 33.1 months, but all have remained afebrile and otherwise healthy after 59.6 months follow-up. we conclude that patients with fever of unknown origin who are diagnosed as having idiopathic granulomatous hepatitis have an excellent prognosis, even the minority who require long-term corticosteroids.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with l-tryptophan ingestion. the association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and l-tryptophan is now well established. we describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids. when massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy, surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness. a discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented.
p-31 spectroscopy study of response of superficial human tumors to therapy. studies were performed to characterize phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance (mr) spectra obtained from 10 superficial human tumors outside the brain and to determine whether p-31 mr spectroscopy could allow detection of a response to therapy before a change in tumor size was measured. the ratio of phosphomonoester to adenosine triphosphate peak intensities (pme/atp) was unusually large in all tumors studied. the average pme/atp in lymphomas (1.8 +/- 0.5) was greater than in nonlymphoma cancers (1.1 +/- 0.15). the average pme/atp for all tumors studied (1.4 +/- 0.5) was much greater than that of underlying skeletal muscle (0.23 +/- .09). eight of the tumors were studied before and after therapy. responders were distinguished from nonresponders on the basis of changes in tumor size. pme/atp decreased during therapy in three lymphomas that responded to therapy. in an adenocarcinoma and ewing sarcoma that did not respond to therapy, pme/atp increased. pme/atp remained constant in two squamous cell carcinomas that responded to therapy and decreased in one squamous cell carcinoma that decreased in size by 40% but was classified as a nonresponder. changes in pme/atp did not always parallel changes in tumor size during therapy. in two patients, a decrease in pme/atp preceded a decrease in tumor size. in four patients, pme/atp increased transiently during periods when tumor size remained constant.
fertility after contraception or abortion. there is a very small correlation, if any, between the prior use of ocs and congenital malformations, including down's syndrome. there are few, if any, recent reports on masculinization of a female fetus born to a mother who took an oc containing 1 mg of a progestogen during early pregnancy. however, patients suspected of being pregnant and who are desirous of continuing that pregnancy should not continue to take ocs, nor should progestogen withdrawal pregnancy tests be used. concern still exists regarding the occurrence of congenital abnormalities in babies born to such women. the incidence of postoperative infection after first trimester therapeutic abortion in this country is low. however, increasing numbers of women are undergoing repeated pregnancy terminations, and their risk for subsequent pelvic infections may be multiplied with each succeeding abortion. the incidence of prematurity due to cervical incompetence or surgical infertility after first trimester pregnancy terminations is not increased significantly. asherman's syndrome may occur after septic therapeutic abortion. the pregnancy rate after treatment of this syndrome is low. the return of menses and the achievement of a pregnancy may be slightly delayed after ocs are discontinued, but the fertility rate is within the normal range by 1 year. the incidence of postpill amenorrhea of greater than 6 months' duration is probably less than 1%. the occurrence of the syndrome does not seem to be related to length of use or type of pill. patients with prior normal menses as well as those with menstrual abnormalities before use of ocs may develop this syndrome. patients with normal estrogen and gonadotropin levels usually respond with return of menses and ovulation when treated with clomiphene. the rate for achievement of pregnancy is much lower than that for patients with spontaneous return of menses. the criteria for defining pid or for categorizing its severity are diverse. the incidence of pid is higher among iud users than among patients taking ocs or using a barrier method. the excess risk of pid among iud users, with the exception of the first few months after insertion, is related to sexually transmitted diseases and not the iud. women with no risk factors for sexually transmitted diseases have little increased risk of pid or infertility associated with iud use. there appears to be no increased risk of congenital anomalies, altered sex ratio, or early pregnancy loss among spermicide users. all present methods of contraception entail some risk to the patient. the risk of imparied future fertility with the use of any method appears to be low.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
unusually late onset of cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea after head trauma. two cases of acute meningitis and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, in which the head trauma responsible occurred 10 and 30 years before, are presented. intraoperatively, the brain parenchyma was found to be plugged into the fractured anterior fossa. by debridement and duraplasty from an intradural approach, both patients were cured. several precipitating factors could be responsible for this unusually late reopening of the fistula. the possible accidental causes could be coughing or undetected microtraumas, but in the long run, atrophy of tissues and consequent changes in brain compliance with aging may play a role.
experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy: new insights from the study of kindling and synaptic reorganization. temporal lobe epilepsy is a common localization-related epileptic syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures, ictal and interictal epileptic discharges arising from limbic structures of the temporal lobe, and association with hippocampal sclerosis. temporal lobe epilepsy may follow perinatal injury and febrile convulsions, may be progressive, and frequently becomes refractory to standard antiepileptic therapy. the neurobiology that underlies these features of temporal lobe epilepsy is not known. recent studies in experimental models have provided new insights that may help clarify the relationship of seizures, hippocampal sclerosis, and temporal lobe epilepsy. observations from the study of the hippocampus with kainic acid-induced lesions, the kindling model, and other experimental models of epilepsy have demonstrated that seizures induce structural and electrophysiologic alterations in hippocampal pathways that may lead to increased excitability and could play a role in the development and progression of temporal lobe epilepsy. these alterations include mossy fiber synaptic reorganization, induction of nmda-mediated synaptic transmission, and progressive hippocampal neuronal loss induced by brief kindled seizures. some of the structural alterations induced by kindling have also been observed in the human epileptic temporal lobe, raising the possibility that mechanisms operative in kindling may play a role in the pathogenesis of hippocampal sclerosis and in the syndrome of human temporal lobe epilepsy.
interleukin-6 (il-6) is an intermediate in il-1-induced proliferation of leukemic human megakaryoblasts. we have examined the in vitro effects of recombinant human (rh) interleukin-1 (il-1) on the growth of purified megakaryoblasts obtained from patients with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia. we demonstrate that both il-1 alpha and il-1 beta treatment of these cells led to stimulation of dna synthesis (as shown by increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation up to 35-fold) and also resulted in colony formation of leukemic megakaryoblasts. however, the stimulatory effect of il-1 was dependent on endogenous production of il-6, because addition of neutralizing monoclonal antibody (moab) to il-6 abrogated the stimulatory activity of il-1. in contrast, neutralizing moabs to granulocyte (g)-colony stimulating factor (csf), granulocyte-macrophage (gm)-csf, and macrophage (m)-csf failed to counteract the growth-enhancing effects of il-1. leukemic megakaryoblasts accumulated il-6 mrna and released il-6 protein into their culture supernatant when exposed to rh il-1 but failed to disclose transcripts for g-, gm-, and m-csf under these conditions. analysis of il-6 receptor (il-6r) transcript levels demonstrated that megakaryoblasts constitutively expressed il-6r mrna and that these transcripts are down-regulated to undetectable levels upon exposure to il-1 and il-6. increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation by megakaryoblasts could be duplicated by exogenous il-6 that could be blocked by neutralizing moab to il-6. in conclusion, our results suggest that leukemic megakaryoblasts could produce and secrete il-6, and express il-6r, and that the growth-enhancing effect of il-1 on these cells is indirect, via production of il-6 by leukemic cells.
operative and conservative treatment of moderate spondylolisthesis in young patients. we made a retrospective study of 149 children and adolescents with moderate spondylolisthesis (slip less than or equal to 30%), 77 treated by fusion and 72 conservatively at an average follow-up of 13.3 years. both groups were fully comparable with regard to age at diagnosis, sex distribution (46% girls), and mean slip. the patients who were treated operatively had more pain before treatment and showed more initial progression of the slip. they had better clinical results and less pain at latest review, but the total progression of the slip over the whole follow-up showed no statistical differences between the two groups. patients with a pseudarthrosis after attempted fusion had had a longer period of postoperative pain, but at the latest review had no more pain than those with sound fusion. none of those treated conservatively came to fusion later and the long-term results in 18 patients who had refused the advised operation were no worse than those for other conservatively treated patients. our results suggest that a moderate grade of spondylolisthesis in adolescents usually has a benign course. it seems that spontaneous segmental stabilisation occurs as a result of degeneration of the disc at the level of the slip.
clinical and prognostic assessment of patients with resected small peripheral lung cancer lesions. one hundred fifteen patients with small (less than or equal to 2 cm in diameter) peripheral lung cancer lesions underwent surgical treatment in the department of surgery, the research institute for chest diseases and cancer, tohoku university, miyagi prefecture, japan. the authors investigated several prognostic factors of these cases. the 5-year survival rate of these 115 patients was 70%. various factors such as histologic type, nodal involvement, pleural involvement, pathologic stage, and curativity of the operation were revealed to affect survival significantly. in patients with and without nodal involvement, there was no significant difference between the survival rate of patients with lung cancer lesions smaller than 2 cm and those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm. however, the rate of lymph node metastasis was significantly different in the group with lesions smaller than 2 cm compared with those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm (21% versus 43%, respectively).
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy. cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person, presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition. for this reason, patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically. since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy (nine women and two men, mean age 73 years) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy. nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage, which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times, the frontal lobes four times, the temporal lobes four times, and the occipital lobes twice. these nine patients underwent hematoma removal, with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage. six patients improved neurologically, and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period. during follow-up in seven patients (median 11 months, range 1 week to 74 months) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve. two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia, also without surgical complications. this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures, and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma.
therapeutic considerations in the elderly hypertensive. the role of calcium channel blockers. hypertension is an extremely common problem in the elderly. the optimum antihypertensive agent to use in this population is not certain. in this paper, the factors influencing the choice of antihypertensive therapy are reviewed. they include efficacy, safety, comorbidity, utility in special populations, drug interaction, dosage schedule, cost, the mechanisms of action of the drug, and the pathophysiology of the patient's hypertension. calcium channel blockers are effective and safe in the elderly. they improve other conditions frequently seen in that population and, with the exception of cardiac conduction abnormalities associated with some calcium channel blockers, do not adversely affect other comorbid diseases. they work well together with other antihypertensives and as vasodilators, they may be specifically appropriate in elderly hypertensives, whose hypertension is associated with reduced cardiac output and increased peripheral vascular resistance. once- and twice-a-day preparations are available to foster compliance, but calcium channel blockers are expensive.
effect of indomethacin on gastric mucosal blood flow around acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats. repeated administration of indomethacin markedly delays spontaneous healing of experimental gastric ulcers induced in rats. to elucidate the underlying mechanism, the effect of indomethacin on the gastric mucosal blood flow around ulcers was examined. gastric ulcers were induced 5 days after submucosal injection of an acetic acid solution into the stomachs of rats. blood flow was determined by the hydrogen gas clearance method. the blood flow around ulcers was significantly higher than that in rats without ulcers up to 2 weeks after ulceration but had returned to within the normal range 3 or 4 weeks later. indomethacin, administered sc at 1 mg/kg once or repeatedly for 1-4 weeks, had little or no effect on the blood flow in normal rats. however, such treatment significantly reduced the blood flow by 20%-30% of the corresponding control levels in rats with ulcers. prostaglandin e2, administered sc at 3 mg/kg once, markedly prevented the reduction in the blood flow due to indomethacin. the administration of prostaglandin e2, with indomethacin for 4 weeks resulted in a significantly higher blood-flow level than the control and prevented the delay in ulcer healing. omeprazole, administered sc at 30 mg/kg once or repeatedly with indomethacin for 4 weeks, had an insignificant effect on the blood flow around ulcers but prevented the delay in ulcer healing. in conclusion, the delayed ulcer healing caused by indomethacin might be partly related to the reduced blood flow around the ulcers.
verbal memory impairment correlates with hippocampal pyramidal cell density. thirty-five patients with medically refractory epilepsy localized to the temporal lobe (18 left, 17 right) completed the verbal selective reminding test before surgery. verbal memory impairments existed before surgery regardless of the lateralization of the seizure focus, but patients with left temporal seizure foci were significantly more impaired. after surgical removal of the mesial temporal lobe structures, 2 blinded observers established volumetric cell densities for hippocampal subfields ca1, ca2, ca3, the hilar area, and the granule cell layer of the area dentata. statistically significant correlations existed between presurgical memory impairment and cell counts (in ca3 and the hilar area, only) for patients with left temporal seizure foci. these findings support the hippocampal model of memory and complement prior research documenting the memory impairments present after surgical removal of the mesial temporal structures.
surgical management of oculomotor nerve palsy we treated seven patients with unilateral oculomotor nerve palsy by transposition of the insertion of the superior oblique tendon to a point anterior and medial to the insertion of the superior rectus muscle without trochleotomy (scott procedure). additionally, large recessions of the lateral rectus muscle of involved eyes and, occasionally, recess/resect procedures of horizontal recti muscles of non-involved eyes were performed. all patients were followed up between one and eight years. orthophoria in the primary position was achieved and maintained with one operation in four patients. a fifth patient had only a small residual exotropia. in two patients who had aberrant regeneration of the oculomotor nerve, surgery on horizontal recti muscles of the noninvolved eye improved the eyelid position of the involved eye after three operations.
hydroxyethyl starch pretreatment in bacteremic sheep. live bacteria were infused in a chronic ovine lung lymph model to determine if a preceding infusion of the colloid, hydroxyethyl starch (hes), exaggerated the cardiopulmonary dysfunction or impaired removal of bacteria by macrophages in the pulmonary circulation. hes was infused (3 ml/kg/hr; n = 6) from 24 to 12 hr before the bacteria and decreased plasma protein content and increased pulmonary lymph to plasma protein concentration because of its oncotic properties. ringer's lactate (2 ml/kg/hr) was given after stopping hes and also to the control group (n = 6). infusion of live ps. aeruginosa (2.5 x 10(8) ps./min for approximately 30 min) induced equivalent pulmonary hypertension, increased pulmonary microvascular permeability, and cardiovascular depression in the two groups. the removal of bacteria in the lungs was not affected, indicating that this measurement of the function of the mononuclear phagocytic system was not impaired by the preceding hes.
femoropopliteal angioplasty. factors influencing long-term success. prospective data was recorded on 217 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta) procedures performed in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries over an 8-year period. after the initial procedure, patients were followed with serial noninvasive studies and, in 71 patients, repeat angiography. the mean follow-up period was 7 years (range, 2-11 years). standard life-table survival analysis was used to assess the factors potentially affecting long-term outcome. excluding an initial technical failure rate of 10%, overall patencies at 1, 3, and 5 years were 81%, 61%, and 58%, respectively. after the first year, the prognosis (i.e., failure rate) appears to be linear over the long term (i.e., up to 10 years). factors negatively influencing long-term patency include the presence of diabetes mellitus, diffuse atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, or threatened limb loss. technical factors correlated with failure include lesion length, moderate eccentricity, and a poor post-pta appearance.
both d-cis- and l-cis-diltiazem have anti-ischemic action in the isolated, perfused working rat heart. the effect of diltiazem (d-cis-diltiazem) on the ischemic myocardium was compared with that of l-cis-diltiazem, an optical isomer having less potent calcium channel-blocking action, in the isolated, perfused working rat heart. ischemia decreased mechanical function and tissue levels of atp and creatine phosphate, and increased tissue levels of nonesterified fatty acids (nefa), amp and lactate. reperfusion did not restore mechanical function, but restored incompletely the levels of metabolites (except nefa) that had been altered by ischemia. the ischemia-induced changes in nefa were prevented by d-cis-diltiazem completely and by l-cis-diltiazem incompletely. other metabolic changes induced by ischemia were attenuated by d-cis-diltiazem but not by l-cis-diltiazem. in heart pretreated with d-cis- or l-cis-diltiazem, both the mechanical function and the levels of metabolites recovered during reperfusion, the degree of recovery with both drugs being similar. these results indicate that not only d-cis-diltiazem but also l-cis-diltiazem has an anti-ischemic action probably due to inhibition of the tissue nefa accumulation. these results also suggest that the mechanism of the protective effect of d-cis-diltiazem on the ischemic myocardium is not entirely due to the calcium channel-blocking action. treatment with low ca2+ (1.0 mm cacl2) also attenuated the ischemia-induced changes. the interval between reoxygenation and start of function in the reperfused heart that had been treated with low ca2+ was significantly longer than that with d-cis- or l-cis-diltiazem. the effect of these isomers to shorten this interval may contribute to their common anti-ischemic action.
bolus, front-loaded, and accelerated thrombolytic infusions for myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolism. thrombolytic therapy decreases mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction and is now widely used in such patients. the choice of which thrombolytic agent to use in such patients, either streptokinase or recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-pa), is based on regional preferences. the standard dose of streptokinase is 1.5 million units over 60 min, and the dose of rt-pa that is commonly used is 100 mg over 3 h. experiments in animals have demonstrated that rt-pa produces continuing thrombolysis after it is cleared from the circulation and that thrombolysis is both increased and accelerated and bleeding is reduced when rt-pa is administered over a short time period. based on these studies, there have been a number of recent trials examining alternative dosage regimens for rt-pa (bolus, front-loaded, and accelerated) in patients with myocardial infarction. to date, there is no convincing evidence that such regimens are superior to the more traditional rt-pa regimen. future randomized trials will determine whether attempts to optimize rt-pa regimens will result in more efficacious treatment regimens. interest in the use of thrombolytic therapy for patients with acute pulmonary embolism has been rekindled. the traditional 12- to 24-h regimens of streptokinase and urokinase are not optimal because of their logistic complexity and associated hemorrhagic complications. clinical studies have demonstrated that rt-pa, 100 mg over 2 h, is an effective thrombolytic agent in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. in a recent double-blind trial in patients with acute pulmonary embolism, rt-pa, 0.6 mg/kg infused over 2 min, improved pulmonary perfusion. this bolus regimen is attractive because it is simple to administer. future studies will compare the relative efficacy and safety of these two rt-pa regimens in patients with acute pulmonary embolism.
pretreatment neuropsychological status and associated factors in children with primary brain tumors. we report on the neuropsychological status of 31 children with primary brain tumors who underwent assessment before receiving therapy. overall, the children performed within normal limits in all test areas. the exception was the group with anterior hemispheric tumors who demonstrated deficits in executive cognitive functions. also, when compared according to tumor type, children with midline tumors and hydrocephalus performed more poorly than others on measures of intelligence, executive abilities, visual-motor skills, and fine-motor functions. although one-half to two-thirds of the children with supratentorial midline and infratentorial tumors had cranial nerve, oculomotor, or cerebellar deficits, only the latter were associated with specific neuropsychological deficits (poorer performance on fine-motor and visual-motor tests). age did not appear to be a factor in these children's neuropsychological test performances.
tuberothalamic infarct after division of a hypoplastic posterior communicating artery for clipping of a basilar tip aneurysm: case report. the authors present a case of a tuberothalamic infarct subsequent to division of the posterior communicating artery for clipping of a high-lying aneurysm of the basilar bifurcation using the pterional approach. in view of this clinical observation and some particular aspects of the microsurgical anatomy of the perforating vessels of the posterior communicating artery, we conclude that interrupting this parent vessel carries a significant risk of infarction.
serum aldolase isozyme levels in patients with cerebrovascular diseases. a subunit specific radioimmunoassay was developed for the quantification of human aldolase a, b, and c. the method used was a double antibody radioimmunoassay using radioiodinated purified aldolase a, b, or c subunits as the ligand, specific chicken antibodies to aldolase isozymes and rabbit antibodies to chicken igg. the iodogen method was used for iodination of the purified isozyme subunits in this study. human brain tissue contained similar concentrations of aldolase a and aldolase c, and a smaller amount of aldolase b, which was the main isozyme of liver tissue. levels of serum aldolase a were greater than 203 ng/ml, the upper limit of normal, in six of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and in 11 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage. nine of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and 16 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage had serum aldolase c levels greater than 4.1 ng/ml, the upper limit in normal sera. these data suggest that serum aldolase c may be a more specific and sensitive marker of cerebrovascular diseases than aldolase a. we also demonstrated that serial measurement of serum aldolase c in patients with cerebrovascular diseases might be useful in estimating prognosis, since serially increasing serum aldolase c levels during the course of these diseases were correlated with a high mortality rate.
human hepatic regenerative stimulator substance: partial purification and biological characterization of hepatic stimulator substance from human fetal liver cells. current support or replacement therapies for fulminant acute hepatic failure are frequently very disappointing. in this study, human hepatic stimulator substance--a liver-specific growth factor--was partially purified from human fetal liver cells and characterized by its biological effects. almost 70-fold protein content was purified with an approximately 80-fold increase in specific growth stimulator activity. human hepatic stimulator substance proved to be heat-stable, protease-sensitive, organ-specific and species-nonspecific. human hepatic stimulator substance produced a two- to threefold increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation into hepatic dna when injected intraperitoneally into growing weanling mice (nonhepatectomized) or regenerating rats (34% hepatectomy). the effects of hhss in reversing the lethality of d-galactosamine (1.6 gm/kg body weight)-induced hepatic necrosis in rats were further evaluated. a survival rate of 4% (n = 24), 41% (n = 12, p less than 0.05), 33% (n = 12, p less than 0.05), 31% (n = 13, p less than 0.05) and 18% (n = 11, p greater than 0.05) was observed when the rats were injected with 4 ml of saline intraperitoneally, 4 ml of human intact fetal hepatocytes (2.4 x 10(8] intraperitoneally, 4 ml of human hepatic stimulator substance intraperitoneally, 2 ml of twofold concentrated human hepatic stimulator substance intravenously and 1 ml of fourfold human hepatic stimulator substance intramuscularly, respectively, 20 hr after poisoning.
the distribution of residual cancer in radical prostatectomy specimens in stage a prostate cancer. to assess the volume and distribution of residual cancer after transurethral resection of the prostate in stage a cancer patients 42 step-sectioned radical prostatectomy specimens were examined, and the volume, location, grade and extracapsular extension of the residual tumor were recorded. a total of 13 patients had stage a1 tumors (5% or less tumor in the transurethral resection specimen and a gleason sum of 7 or less) and 29 had stage a2 disease. residual cancer was present in the radical prostatectomy specimen in 41 patients (98%) with a mean volume of 1.28 cc. the location of residual cancer, that is multifocal (76%), peripheral (81%) and distal to the verumontanum (66%), makes complete removal or even identification of residual tumor (restaging) by repeat transurethral resection improbable. of the stage a1 cancer patients 4 (30%) had more than 1 cc residual tumor volume, extracapsular extension or seminal vesicle invasion. on the other hand, 14 of the stage a2 cancer patients (48%) had less than 1 cc residual tumor completely confined to the gland. foci of residual cancer were found in the transition zone in 67% and in the peripheral zone in 90% of the patients. the grade of the residual peripheral zone cancer was significantly higher than that of the transition zone cancer in the same gland (p = 0.0004). eight of 13 instances of extracapsular extension and all 5 of seminal vesicle invasion were directly attributable to peripheral zone cancer. these observations imply that the greatest threat to patients with stage a prostate cancer may be a separate, associated cancer in the peripheral zone rather than the primary transition zone cancer incidentally removed at transurethral resection.
effect of parenterally administered gold therapy on the course of adult rheumatoid arthritis objective: to describe the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years in adults and to evaluate the effect of parenterally administered gold salts on that course. design: a prospective observational study of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. data derived from annual interviews with patients from 1983 to 1988 and from physician surveys in 1983 and 1987. setting: rheumatology practices in the community. patients: the study began in 1982 with 822 adults who had rheumatoid arthritis and were under the care of rheumatologists. interventions: those selected by rheumatologists in the management of their patients. measurements: information describing sociodemographic and clinical characteristics, course, and therapy was collected from patients and verified by physician reports. functional status, measured by the health assessment questionnaire, and the number of painful joints were used as outcome variables. outcome variables were adjusted for age, sex, disease duration, baseline values of the outcome variable, and the use of four disease-remittive agents other than gold. main results: multivariate repeated-measures analysis of variance showed no change in the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years. the use of parenteral gold for at least 2 consecutive years at the start of the observation period produced, on average, no change in the course over 5 years in the two outcome variables. conclusion: in our study of a community-based population of adults with rheumatoid arthritis who were under the care of community rheumatologists, we found that there was, on average, no statistically significant change in function or number of painful joints between 1983 and 1988. patients receiving parenteral gold therapy for at least 2 consecutive years did not show a statistically significant difference in outcome when compared with those not receiving such therapy.
serum enzyme alterations in chronic muscle disease. a biopsy-based diagnostic assessment. the results of interpretation of muscle biopsies were compared retrospectively to activities of serum enzymes and isoenzymes. a total of 137 patients seen at the cleveland clinic foundation in 1986 and 1987 were included in this study. serum enzymes evaluated were ck, ast, ld, and aldolase (als), as well as the percentage ck-mb isoenzyme. the units of ck-mb and the ratios of ck to ast, ld, and als were calculated. descriptive statistics, kruskal-wallis one-way analysis of variance, and stepwise logistic regression were performed. a diagnostic algorithm was constructed using a computer-assisted rule generation program. myopathic diseases yielded a greater mean increase in serum enzyme activity than atrophic diseases. by multivariate stepwise logistic regression, increases in serum ast and ck activity were independently associated with the presence of inflammation in a muscle biopsy specimen. the diagnostic algorithm allowed for the separation of myopathies from atrophies and could identify cases of duchenne's muscular dystrophy and polymyositis.
extramammary paget's disease of the bronchial epithelium. we report the first case, to our knowledge, of extramammary paget's disease of the bronchial epithelium. the tumor displayed paget's cells scattered within the bronchial epithelium in most of the lesion, but infiltrating into the bronchial submucosa and pulmonary parenchyma with microglandular and papillary patterns in some area. in addition to the histologic findings of coexistence with adenocarcinomatous components, in situ involvement into bronchial glands and ducts by paget's cells was observed, suggesting that extramammary paget's disease of the bronchial epithelium may be a variant of pulmonary adenocarcinoma, which is associated with bronchial glands.
child care practices with respect to acute respiratory tract infection in a poor, urban community in nigeria. a longitudinal study conducted over a 3-year period in a poor, urban community in nigeria, a developing country, found that acute respiratory tract infection (ari) was common, in particular among infants and boys. between 81% and 95% of the children treated for ari over the 3-year period were brought to the clinic by their mothers. about 32% of these children had been treated with cough medicines, 42% with antipyretics, 5% with antibiotics, and 10% with hematinics before they were brought to the clinic. the source of such medications included medicines left over from previous prescriptions and those bought from chemists' shops and street vendors. up to 64% of the children treated for ari had been force-fed local herbal teas by their mothers; herbal teas were used for both preventive and curative purposes.
endoscopic laser surgery for early glottic carcinoma: a clinical and experimental study. the purpose of this study is to define the indications for using the co2 laser for the treatment of early glottic cancer. for this purpose, 52 consecutive laser resections of tis to t2 vocal cord carcinomas were studied prospectively. in addition, laser resection was performed in eight human cadaver larynges, which were then examined histologically using whole organ sections. both tumor size and tumor location had important influences on tumor resectability by laser. all of the tis, 78% of t1, and one of four t2 carcinomas were successfully treated by laser surgery alone. of the 10 carcinomas involving the anterior commissure, only four could completely be resected with the laser; of these four, two recurred in the anterior commissure. this finding is corroborated by the histologic study, which clearly shows that anterior commissure resection poses problems. the only laser resection complication of early glottic cancer was persistent hoarseness in one third of the patients. it is concluded that co2 laser resection is a safe and effective alternative treatment for patients with tis and t1 glottic carcinoma, provided the anterior commissure is free of tumor.
human interleukin-3 mrna accumulation is controlled at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level. interleukin-3 (il-3) is a hematopoietic growth factor that regulates the differentiation of multilineage and committed progenitor cells and the functions of some mature blood cells. the expression of human il-3 appears to be restricted to stimulated t lymphocytes. we have investigated the kinetics and mechanisms involved in the induction of il-3 expression in the human t lymphocytic tumor cell line jurkat. we show that accumulation of il-3 mrna is controlled at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level. transcription of the il-3 gene in these cells appears to be constitutive but no il-3 mrna was detected in unstimulated cells, indicating that in resting cells il-3 mrna is highly unstable. treatment with phytohemagglutinin (pha) induced a small and transient increase in the il-3 gene transcription rate and led to the production of detectable levels of il-3 mrna and protein. optimal induction of il-3 expression required a second stimulus. costimulation of jurkat cells with both phorbol myristate acetate and pha caused both a transient increase in il-3 gene transcription, which is dependent on new protein synthesis, and also a transient increase in mrna stability.
paratope- and framework-related cross-reactive idiotopes on anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. cross-reactive idiotopes are a possible target for therapeutical interventions in autoimmune diseases. to investigate their role in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (eamg) we analyzed the id of rat anti-achr mab 6, 35, 61, 65 and a control myeloma protein ir27. anti-id 6, 35, 61, 65 bound in a direct binding assay with various affinity to all rat anti-achr mab that were tested. anti-id ir27 recognized none of the anti-achr mab. the specificity of these crossreactions was confirmed by inhibition studies with anti-achr mab and two control rat myeloma proteins (ir27 and ir241). in addition, the id expression on mab d6, a mouse anti-human achr mab was recognized by anti-id 6, 35, and 65. anti-id, except anti-id ir27, bound to affinity purified igg from the sera of rats with eamg, but not to preimmune lewis igg. these results suggest extensive sharing of idiotopes among anti-achr mab, which are also present in eamg serum. anti-achr mab against the main immunogenic region (6, 35, 65) from different rat strains, shared at least one paratope-related cross-reactive idiotopes. in the view of the fact that anti-main immunogenic region antibodies might form a predominant fraction of the polyclonal response against achr, it is conceivable that an anti-id recognizing these antibodies could have therapeutical applications as for example a selective immune absorbent or in immunotoxin therapy.
recurrence of resected esophagogastric adenocarcinoma: results of re-resection. isolated local recurrence following potentially curative resection for carcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction does not necessarily imply pending systemic disease and early demise. while radiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy is standard treatment for such patients, resection is another available option. resection may also be a consideration should localized disease persist after non-operative therapy in the absence of metastases. a 5 year retrospective review was performed examining 204 resections performed prior to 1989. only 5 patients underwent resection of locally recurrent esophagogastric (eg) adenocarcinoma during this period. no squamous carcinoma recurrences were resected. one patient is well 15 months later while another died at 18 months of other causes without recurrence. recurrence after re-resection occurred at 8, 11, and 24 months in the 3 other patients. although there were no postoperative deaths, major complications occurred in 4 patients. all 5 patients swallowed normally after operation.
prognostic implication of ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. ecto-5'-nucleotidase (5'-n) activity was determined in 191 patients (71 children and 120 adults) with acute leukemia. elevated values for 5'-n were registered in common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all), but blast cells of t-cell all (t-all) and common all antigen-negative non-t-all had low enzyme activity comparable with the values of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia. dependence of remission duration on 5'-n activity was analyzed in 74 adults with all, treated similarly in a prospective multicenter trial. the remission curves for all patients with 5'-n activity lower than 10 nmol/h x 10(6) cells were substantially and significantly better than those of patients with high activity (greater than 10 nmol/h x 10(6) cells). this difference was also evident in the immunologic subclass common all. statistical evaluation showed that an interaction between immunologic subtype of the blast cells and their 5'-n activity had prognostic significance for remission duration. in addition to the independent factor, initial age, this interaction was also prognostic for survival.
when epilepsy masquerades as heart disease. awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis. autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations, including cardiac arrhythmias, sudden death, anginal chest pain, neurogenic pulmonary edema, and symptoms of pheochromocytoma. either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms. a better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis, because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing.
proliferative mass found in the gingiva. the clinical course of peripheral ossifying fibroma is slow and the growth of most lesions is limited in size, usually up to 1.5 cm. complaints are rare unless the surface becomes ulcerated, or the lesion compromises oral function or esthetic appearance. treatment is surgical excision with close postoperative follow-up. tooth extraction is seldom necessary. proper surgical intervention, which includes excision of reactive tissue down to periosteum, affords a low recurrence rate of 14% to 16%.
lymphocele: the spectrum of scintigraphic findings in lymphoceles associated with renal transplant. lymphocele is a well recognized complication of renal transplant surgery. we performed a retrospective review of 305 renal transplant patients with over 2,500 scintigraphic exams to describe the pattern of activity on technetium-99m-dtpa blood flow and dynamic imaging, and iodine-131-oih studies. diagnostic criteria for a lymphocele were ultrasonic evidence of a perirenal fluid collection and analysis of that fluid that demonstrated bun, creatinine, and electrolytes similar to the patient's plasma. scintigraphic findings were attributed to a lymphocele if abnormalities were in the same area as the ultrasound fluid collection. scintigraphic findings attributable to lymphocele resolved in all patients following surgical drainage or peritoneal window placement. six of the 11 documented lymphoceles demonstrated a cold defect on initial dynamic images that "filled in" to equal background activity and another exceeded background. three cases showed a rim of increased activity surrounding the lymphocele ("rim sign").
mild head injury classification. inconsistencies across studies concerning outcome after mild head injury may reflect differences in the diagnostic criteria used for selection of patients. consequently, we compared the neurobehavioral outcome in three groups of consecutively hospitalized patients (aged 16 to 50 years) who sustained a closed head injury (chi) and had a glasgow coma scale (gcs) score in the 9 to 15 range. these groups included patients with uncomplicated chi with mild impairment of consciousness as reflected by a gcs score in the 13 to 15 range (n = 78), patients with initially mild impairment of consciousness complicated by brain lesion or depressed skull fracture (n = 77), and patients with moderate chi (n = 60). tests of memory, information processing, and verbal fluency were administered within 1 to 3 months after injury, and the glasgow outcome scale was completed at 6 months. neurobehavioral functioning was impaired in the groups with complicated mild chi and moderate chi as compared to the group with uncomplicated mild chi. although moderate chi produced longer durations of impaired consciousness and posttraumatic amnesia than complicated mild head injury, patients in these groups did not differ in neurobehavioral performance. global outcome at 6 months was better in the patients with mild chi than in patients with complicated mild and moderate injuries. analysis of the various complications of mild chi revealed that the presence of an intracranial lesion was related to more severe neurobehavioral sequelae than injuries complicated by a depressed fracture.
dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation. a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia. a total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone (n = 12) or saline placebo (n = 11). dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg per day) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone (8 mg/kg per day) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy. infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 (p less than .05) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group (respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants, p less than .05; p = .12 after yates correction). the use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation (4 vs 22 days, p less than .05) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy, hospitalization, home oxygen therapy, occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity, rate of growth, and mortality. no significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy. measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract (23.7 ng/ml in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/ml in the control group, p less than .05). dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
salivary flow rates in patients with head and neck cancer 0.5 to 25 years after radiotherapy. in this clinical study at the university of texas m. d. anderson cancer center, unstimulated and stimulated salivary flow rates were obtained from 47 patients with head and neck cancer who had received mantle, unilateral facial, or bilateral facial field radiotherapy from 0.5 to 25 years earlier. the magnitude of salivary flow rate reduction compared with a healthy control group was primarily related to the radiation dosage and the amount of salivary gland tissue included in the irradiated fields. flow rates were lower for women in all groups, but these differences were not statistically significant.
basilar artery occlusion in rats. the basilar artery is one of the three major sources of blood supply to the circle of willis. to investigate the effects of basilar artery occlusion, we surgically exposed and coagulated the basilar artery in 25 rats. basilar artery occlusion at any single point between the foramen magnum and the circle of willis in 11 rats did not produce histologically detectable infarcts in the brain at 12-24 hours. two-point occlusions of the basilar artery in 12 rats produced variable infarcts between the occlusion sites but no ischemic lesions elsewhere. after either single- or double-point occlusions, the proximal basilar artery refilled within 2-3 minutes. when the basilar artery was occluded above and below the origins of the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries, the artery segments between the occlusion points initially collapsed but refilled within 2-3 minutes in two rats. basilar artery occlusions invariably suppressed cortical somatosensory evoked potentials by greater than 50%. regardless of whether a brain stem infarct developed, somatosensory evoked potential amplitudes recovered to greater than baseline levels by 4 hours in seven of 17 rats and returned to baseline levels by 24 hours in every rat tested. we conclude that the occluded basilar artery receives extensive retrograde collateral blood flow and that somatosensory evoked potentials are exquisitely sensitive to basilar artery occlusion but are insensitive to whether brain stem infarcts develop.
microvascular right-to-left pulmonary shunt demonstrated by a radionuclide method. a 37-yr-old man with angiolymphoid hyperplasia (kimura's syndrome), who had been treated unsuccessfully for suspected asthma, was investigated due to a decrease in arterial oxygen saturation (86%). right heart catheterization and angiography of the pulmonary artery failed to demonstrate any right-to-left shunts. however, simultaneous scintigraphy over the lungs, kidneys, and head after injection of 150 mbq technetium-99m-labeled macroaggregated albumin i.v. and inhalation of 150 mbq krypton-81m demonstrated a right-to-left shunt in the lungs probably caused by precapillary pulmonary arteriovenous shunts.
recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses. the incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years. the first 32 months served as a control period. during the second period of 31 months, recombinant human erythropoietin (epoetin) was used for an average duration of 13 months (range, 2-32 months) in 79 patients. the overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period. distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods, with 55% to 60% of patients having no clotting episode. patients with recurrent clotting (two or more events) accounted for 68% of episodes. during the second period, there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients (0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year, both slightly lower than in period 1 [0.52 events per patient-year]). it is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting.
role of endothelium in the response to endothelin in hypertension. the relation between endothelin and acetylcholine (ach) was examined and compared in aortas from wistar-kyoto (wky) rats and from stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrsp). the relaxation produced by ach in an endothelin-induced contraction was less in aortas from wky rats than in those from shrsp. in aortas from wky rats but not in those from shrsp, the contraction produced by endothelin was augmented when the intact aortic rings were treated with methylene blue (10(-5) m). this augmentation was also found in preparations of the wky rat aortic rings in which the endothelium had been removed. the augmentation was not present in shrsp aortic rings that had been similarly denuded. treatment with indomethacin (5 x 10(-6) m) had no effect on endothelin-induced contraction in either wky rat or shrsp aortic rings. our findings indicate that endothelin and ach have in common the ability to release endothelium-derived relaxing factor (edrf) in wky rat aortic rings. the reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation in response to ach in the wky rat probably reflects the fact that endothelin had already released the edrf in rings from this strain of rats. the release of edrf by endothelin is less in shrsp than it is in wky rats. because of this failure of endothelin to release edrf in shrsp, endothelin may contribute to the increase in total peripheral resistance in this form of hypertension.
the role of cellular maturation in neutrophil heterogeneity. previous studies have shown that many neutrophil (pmn) characteristics are heterogeneous but the origin of pmn heterogeneity is unknown. it is unclear if pmn functional heterogeneity is secondary to maturational differences or due to distinct subpopulations of cells that possess different functional capacities. the pmn 31d8 antigen is a useful probe for evaluation of pmn subpopulations. the majority of pmns (approximately 85%) exhibit a high intensity fluorescence after 31d8 monoclonal antibody (moab) labeling (31d8 enriched or "bright" pmns) as determined by flow cytometric analysis. these cells are more functional than cells with low intensity fluorescence (31d8 diminished or "dull" pmns). various immunologic, clonogenic and functional techniques were used to study the expression of the 31d8 antigen in hl-60 cells and myeloid cells in order to evaluate antigenic and functional heterogeneity during morphologic maturation. the results of this study indicate that the percentage of 31d8 antigen positive (31d8 antigen enriched and diminished) bone marrow cells increases from 20 +/- 11% in myeloblast cells to 68 +/- 10% in promyelocytes, 93 +/- 2% in myelocytes and 99 +/- 1% in bands and pmns. 31d8 antigen enriched cells first appear at the myelocyte stage (32 +/- 10%) and increase in bands (52 +/- 13%), marrow pmns (62 +/- 13%) and peripheral blood pmns (88 +/- 4%). these data indicate that the heterogeneous expression of 31d8 antigen in pmns is due, at least in part, to maturational differences within the pmn population and raise the possibility that other heterogeneously expressed pmn characteristics are also maturationally derived. they also suggest that 31d8 antigenic expression may be a more precise indicator of myeloid functional maturation than maturation as identified by cellular morphology.
systemic toxic effects associated with high-dose verapamil infusion and chemotherapy administration. aside from its more conventional uses as a cardiovascular drug, the calcium channel blocker verapamil has recently been added to chemotherapeutic regimens to reduce drug resistance in b-cell and other neoplasms that express the p-glycoprotein. we recently treated patients with continuous-infusion verapamil (0.15 mg/kg per hour to 0.60 mg/kg per hour) over a 5-day period in combination with continuous-infusion vincristine and doxorubicin plus oral dexamethasone. seventy-one courses involving 35 hospitalized patients were prospectively studied for cardiovascular and other side effects. cardiovascular side effects were observed most frequently and consisted of first-degree heart block, hypotension, sinus bradycardia, and junctional rhythms. we observed higher degree heart block, but the qrs interval remained narrow and the ventricular escape rate remained relatively normal. effects on mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and pr interval were both time and dose related. severe, symptomatic congestive heart failure was rarely observed. the most common noncardiovascular side effects were constipation, peripheral edema, and weight gain. all systemic toxic effects observed were easily treated or disappeared with either temporary or permanent discontinuation of the verapamil infusion or by a decrease in the dose of verapamil. we conclude that the cardiovascular side effects associated with continuous, high-dose intravenous verapamil therapy are significant and dose limiting but are rapidly reversible. less cardiotoxic chemosensitizers are needed to reverse multidrug resistance in cancer.
risks and benefits of paracetamol antipyresis in young children with fever of presumed viral origin to examine whether antipyretic therapy in young children is associated with potential risks (interference with enhanced host defences at febrile temperatures) or benefits (improved comfort and behaviour), a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of paracetamol was conducted among 225 children 6 months to 6 years of age who presented with acute (less than or equal to 4 days) fever (greater than or equal to 38 degrees c per rectum) without evident bacterial focus of infection. parents were asked to give paracetamol liquid 10-15 mg/kg or placebo every 4 h as needed for fever and to avoid bathing, sponging, or other pharmacological agents. parents kept temperature and symptom diaries and recorded changes in child comfort and behaviour according to a pretested, 5-category likert-type questionnaire 1-2 h after every dose. there were no significant differences between treated and placebo groups in mean duration of subsequent fever (34.7 vs 36.1 h) or other symptoms (72.9 vs 71.7 h). paracetamol-treated children were more likely to be rated by their parents as having at least a 1-category improvement in activity (38 vs 11%; p = 0.005) and alertness (33 vs 12%; p = 0.036) but no significant differences were noted in mood, comfort, appetite, or fluid intake. that overall improvement in behaviour and comfort with paracetamol was not impressive is underscored by the inaccuracy of parents' "guess" at the end of the trial as to which agent their child had received-45% correct guesses for paracetamol and 52% for placebo. the data suggest that the clinically relevant hazards and benefits of paracetamol antipyresis have been exaggerated.
continuous infusion of interpleural bupivacaine maintains effective analgesia after cholecystectomy. twenty-five patients who had undergone elective cholecystectomy were prospectively randomized to receive via an interpleural catheter either a continuous infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine at 0.125 ml.kg-1.h-1 (n = 13) or repeated bolus injections (n = 12) of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine 1:200,000 at 0.4 ml/kg every sixth hour. adequacy of pain relief was measured by the amount of patient-controlled analgesia morphine required postoperatively and by patient scores on a visual analog scale obtained every sixth hour. two venous blood samples for measurements of serum bupivacaine levels were obtained from patients in the continuous group at hours 6 and 24; four blood samples were obtained from patients in the bolus group, both immediately before and 30 min after injections at hours 6 and 24. among the patients receiving the bolus injections, morphine was required 62 +/- 15 (sem) times over the 24-h study period with total morphine dosage averaging 30 +/- 15 mg. corresponding values for patients in the continuous groups were 35 +/- 10 times and 23 +/- 5 mg of morphine. the difference was not, however, statistically significant, but when activity during the 2-h time periods immediately before reinjection were examined, patients in the bolus group required and received significantly more morphine than did those in the continuous group (p less than 0.05). patients in the continuous group had visual analog scale scores that averaged 2.9 +/- 0.6 over the 24-h study period. patients within the bolus group had visual analog scale scores before and again 30 min after injection that averaged 5.8 +/- 0.8 and 1.8 +/- 0.5, respectively (p less than 0.05).
right ventricular infarction: a clinical case study. in this article we review the specific case of mrs. f., a 63-year-old white woman who recently had classical right ventricular infarction associated with left ventricular inferior wall myocardial infarction. the presentation covers her medical history, clinical course pathophysiology of the right ventricular infarction, and goals of the medical modalities used in treatment. nursing problems are identified specifically related to right ventricular infarcts, and treatment considerations are discussed. a brief conclusion recaps mrs. f.'s discharge course and reviews some specific problems associated with right ventricular infarcts, of which critical care nurses need to be aware.
teniposide (vm-26) and continuous infusion cytosine arabinoside for initial induction failure in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. a pediatric oncology group pilot study. twenty-six evaluable children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) who failed to achieve initial remission after receiving two to seven drugs for at least a 4-week period were given teniposide (vm-26) and continuous infusion cytosine arabinoside (ara-c). twenty-two received 150 mg/m2 of vm-26 on days 1 and 2 with 100 mg/2 of ara-c as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 5; a second shortened course was given on day 14 to eight patients who had evidence of some antileukemic effect or were clinically judged able to tolerate a second course. the last four patients received three daily doses of vm-26 and a 7-day infusion of ara-c at the same daily dosages. twelve (48%) achieved complete remission (cr) of all. there was a trend toward decreasing response rates with an increasing number of drugs used in the initial induction regimen, i.e., five cr among seven patients with a prior two-drug induction attempt, six cr among 14 patients with a prior three- to four-drug induction attempt, and one cr among four patients with a prior five- to seven-drug induction attempt (p = 0.14). ten of 17 non-t-cell patients and two of nine t-cell patients achieved remission (p = 0.10). the median time required to achieve a complete remission from the initiation of treatment was 26 days (range, 14-72 days). this period was shorter in those who required one course compared with those who required two induction courses, i.e., 25 days median vs. 44 days median. toxicity was significant and due mainly to marrow aplasia and infection; one patient had severe prolonged vm-26-induced hypotension. of the 12 patients entering remission, two were removed for marrow transplant and one was removed due to parental request. in the remaining nine patients, median remission duration was only 2 months (range, 1-18 months). all nine patients relapsed in the marrow. among the entire group of 26 patients, only one patient is alive and a long-term event-free survivor (after allogeneic marrow transplant). due to the current use of more aggressive initial induction regimens and the extremely poor prognosis in children who fail to achieve initial remission, more intensive regimens of continuation therapy or alternative therapies, such as bone marrow transplant, should be considered.
surgical management of pulmonary metastatic leiomyosarcoma with gross endobronchial extension. metastatic leiomyosarcoma occasionally is seen with gross endobronchial extension without invasion of the bronchial wall. these patients have major airway obstruction and partial or total atelectasis of the lung. precise bronchoscopic assessment coupled with intraoperative bronchotomy allows the surgeon to determine the origin of the tumor and to save uninvolved pulmonary parenchyma. our experience with 4 such patients illustrates the possibility of saving lung tissue despite total bronchial obstruction.
the pitted duodenal bulb. the radiologic, endoscopic, and histologic findings in two patients with flaskshaped or collar-button collections of barium in the duodenum are presented. these abnormal mucosal depressions, which may be related to inflammation, were seen endoscopically and identified radiographically and have not been reported previously.
effect of weight reduction in moderately overweight patients on recorded ambulatory blood pressure and free cytosolic platelet calcium. although platelet cytosolic calcium has been shown to decrease during pharmacological treatment of hypertension, there is no evidence that cytosolic calcium also falls during a nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure. to provide such evidence, we examined prospectively the relation between platelet cytosolic calcium and ambulatory blood pressure during weight reduction in moderately overweight (body mass index [bmi] greater than 25), mildly hypertensive individuals. the experimental group (responders: bmi reduction greater than 5%) consisted of 19 patients who lost 8.5 +/- 2.9 kg (mean +/- sd, p less than 0.05) during a 10-week hypocaloric diet, whereas the control group (nonresponders: bmi reduction less than 5%) consisted of 12 patients who showed no relevant change in body weight (-2.0 +/- 1.3 kg) during the same period of time. the moderate weight loss of the responders decreased blood pressure by 14/5 mm hg (p less than 0.05), as measured by ambulatory monitoring, which renders a placebo effect unlikely. this nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure was accompanied by a proportional 11% decrease (p less than 0.05) in platelet cytosolic calcium and also by significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in plasma catecholamines and serum cholesterol. these findings establish the concept of a nonpharmacological reduction in free cytosolic platelet calcium in humans and add further evidence suggesting a link between intracellular calcium homeostasis and blood pressure regulation.
deteriorating ischemic stroke: risk factors and prognosis. to determine a risk profile of deterioration in cerebral infarction of less than 8 hours' duration, we studied prospectively a series of clinical and radiologic data in 98 patients. we evaluated the canadian neurological scale score and barthel index during a follow-up period of 3 months. there was deterioration in the 1st 48 hours in 40.8% of the patients. high systolic blood pressure, elevated blood sugar concentration at admission, and carotid territory involvement were independently related with deterioration in the logistic regression analysis. death occurred in 35% of the patients with deteriorating infarcts and in 8.6% of those with stable infarcts. at the end of the study, functional capacity was lower in those with deteriorating infarcts, but the 2 groups improved in parallel from the 4th day onward.
hmpao-spect imaging resembling alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (melas). single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (hmpao) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (melas). reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions (resembling alzheimer type dementia) and in the right parietal lobe.
genital human papillomavirus infection human papillomavirus is one of the most common causes of sexually transmitted diseases. in the past ten years, 60 different types of papillomavirus have been identified. although the virus often causes asymptomatic genital infection, it has been strongly associated with lower genital tract carcinoma; therefore, its detection and eradication are important. all patients with evidence of human papillomavirus infection should undergo colposcopy and, depending on the extent of infection and the type of histology, should receive definitive treatment.
long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis. we reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution. these 27 patients represent 4% of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry. reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 (65.5%) cases. comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did (84% at 5 years, 78.6% at 10 years) and did not (90.3% at 5 years, 83.6% at 10 years) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference (p = 0.48) when measured from the time of primary operation. the perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation (3.4% and 0%) were acceptable. we conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity (3.4%), surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy.
adhesion formation after ovarian wound repair in new zealand white rabbits: a comparison of ovarian microsurgical closure with ovarian nonclosure. thirty female new zealand white rabbits underwent standard laparotomy. each ovary was bivalved and hemostasis was achieved with bipolar electrocautery. one ovary was then randomized to the closure group, whereas the other ovary was placed in the nonclosure group. in the closure group, the ovarian capsule was closed with a continuous suture of 8-0 vicryl absorbable surgical suture material with microsurgical technique. in the nonclosure group, the ovaries were left open. three weeks later the animals were killed and the ovarian adhesions were graded with a standardized scale by an observer (a. a. t.) blinded to the closure status of the animals. five control animals underwent sham operations with minimal adhesion formation. statistical analysis of the study animals by the paired student t test showed a significantly higher adhesion score on the ovaries that were microsurgically closed compared with the ovaries not closed (p = 0.02).
failure to detect human t-cell leukemia virus-related sequences in multiple sclerosis blood. we tested 11 patients with multiple sclerosis for the presence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i)- or type ii (htlv-ii)-related sequences. dna from blood mononuclear cells was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction utilizing three different oligonucleotide primer pairs. two of these primer pairs detect sequences shared between htlv-i and htlv-ii in either p24, gag protein, or in p21, env transmembrane protein. the third primer pair was synthesized based on regions in the pol gene where amino acid sequences are conserved between htlv-i, htlv-ii, and the related bovine leukemia virus. the multiple sclerosis samples were consistently negative while appropriate control samples were positive. we conclude that viruses related to htlv-i, htlv-ii, or bovine leukemia virus are not present in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis and, therefore, that htlv-bovine leukemia virus-related viruses are not likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis.
comparative in situ hybridisation study of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis in papua new guinea and australia. a comparative study of cases of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis from papua new guinea (n = 3) and brisbane, australia (n = 9) was carried out. in situ hybridisation reactions for human papillomavirus (hpv) types 6 and 11 occurred in 11 cases. all three cases from papua new guinea and eight from australia gave positive signals. a negative reaction was observed in one australian case. the intensity of the reaction was strong in seven cases, moderate in one, and weak in three. an equivocal reaction was also noted with probes for types 16 and 18, and types 31, 33, and 35 in two cases from australia and one from papua new guinea. it is concluded that as similar staining patterns and intensities occurred in cases from both areas, the aetiology is the same. the equivocal reactions noted in three cases were probably due to cross hybridisation rather than multiple infection.
is primary repair of gastroschisis and omphalocele always the best operation? optimal surgical management of neonates with gastroschisis and omphalocele remains controversial. suggested benefits of primary fascial closure include earlier return of gastrointestinal function, decreased hospital stay, less sepsis, less risk of postoperative intestinal obstruction and fistulae, and lower mortality. between 1978 and 1989, 40 neonates with gastroschisis or omphalocele underwent repair. primary fascial repair was performed in 30 children, 18 of whom had a gastroschisis and 12 of whom had an omphalocele. ten children had staged repair with the use of a silastic silo; seven of these had a gastroschisis and three an omphalocele. comparison between the groups was made regarding birth weight, days on the ventilator before and after surgery, days to first feeding, days in the hospital after surgery, postoperative complications, and survival. there was no significant difference in birth weight, days on the ventilator, days to first feeding, and postoperative days in the hospital. there were nine complications in nine patients (30%) with primary repair and four complications in two patients (20%) with staged repair. two infants died after primary repair (6.7%), and one (10%) died after staged closure. it was concluded that silastic silo repair and primary fascial closure are both acceptable alternatives. primary closure is attractive whenever possible to avoid additional operations.
low metastatic potential of clone from murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 increased by transfection of activated c-erbb-2 gene. we investigated the effect of an activated c-erbb-2 gene (also known as erbb2) on metastatic potential. the c-erbb-2 gene was activated by mutation of the valine at position 659 within the transmembrane domain to glutamic acid. the activated c-erbb-2 expression vector was transfected into low-metastatic-potential nl-4 cells, which were established from a metastatic variant of murine colon adenocarcinoma 26. all 10 clones produced lung metastases in balb/c mice injected via the tail vein. eight of the 10 clones expressed messenger rna (mrna) of activated c-erbb-2 and showed morphological alteration; seven of the eight produced significantly enhanced experimental metastatic activity compared with that of untransfected nl-4 or nl-4neo cells, and one had metastatic ability similar to that of nl-4 cells. two clones did not express c-erbb-2 mrna and did not show morphological alteration or highly metastatic phenotype. five of the 10 clones subcutaneously implanted in the flank failed to produce metastasis in the lungs or other organs of the mice. the metastatic ability of the other five clones was not determined. these results indicate that the activated c-erbb-2 gene can enhance experimental but not spontaneous metastatic potential in nl-4 cells, suggesting participation of the gene in the metastatic process after initial arrest and lodgement in the capillary bed.
congenital monomelic hypertrophy with progressive myopathy. we describe a patient with congenital monomelic hypertrophy who later developed progressive footdrop due to a degenerative myopathy. the clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic features of the case are described and compared with those of a previously reported case.
duodenal ulcer hemorrhage with and without dyspepsia. to clarify the clinical significance of dyspepsia in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer, we studied 298 patients prospectively. ages of patients ranged from 16 to 81 yr (mean 45.9). there were 244 (82%) dyspeptic and 54 (18%) nondyspeptic patients. in the dyspeptic group, significantly more patients were taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. in the nondyspeptic group, there was a higher percentage of patients with duodenal bulb deformity (p less than 0.005), which deformity was related to previous peptic ulcer disease. the age, sex, past history of dyspepsia or bleeding, consumption of alcohol and cigarettes, and the hospital course of the two groups of patients did not differ significantly. our results show that the clinical course of duodenal ulcer hemorrhage is not significantly different in patients with or without dyspepsia, and indicate that bleeding and dyspepsia probably are two independent presentations in the natural course of the disease. the significance of the correlation between dyspepsia and duodenal bulb deformity is discussed.
clonal deletion of v beta 14-bearing t cells in mice transgenic for mammary tumour virus. autoreactive t lymphocytes are clonally deleted during maturation in the thymus. deletion of t cells expressing particular receptor v beta elements is controlled by poorly defined autosomal dominant genes. a gene has now been identified by expression of transgenes in mice which causes deletion of v beta 14+ t cells. the gene lies in the open reading frame of the long terminal repeat of the mouse mammary tumour virus.
postoperative cerebrospinal fluid leakage after lumbar spine operations. conservative treatment. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) leakage from a postoperative wound after lumbar spine operation is an uncommon complication. it may result from excessive traction of the nerve roots, direct trauma, or laceration at the time of operation, causing the dura to be inadvertently opened. other reasons for this complication are postlaminectomy residual bone spikes, traumatic myelography puncture, and improper suture of dura defects. eight patients who had postoperative csf leakage as the only complication after lumbosacral spine operations were examined. they were all treated conservatively with bed rest in the trendelenburg position, antibiotic coverage, watertight skin suturing, and daily subcutaneous punctures. no patient was operated on for the same type of complication.
indications for use of ketoconazole in management of metastatic prostate cancer. newer methods of androgen ablation for the treatment of metastatic prostatic carcinoma have been developed as alternatives to the standard forms of therapy, oral estrogens and surgical castration. the purpose of this review is to elucidate the indications and to determine the role of ketoconazole in the management of metastatic prostatic cancer. eighteen patients have been treated with ketoconazole. the indications for usage have included: prompt therapeutic response, when orchiectomy is contraindicated, when estrogens are contraindicated, initial empirical therapy, and hormonally refractory disease. it can also be used in conjunction with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogues. ketoconazole is excellent for short-term usage prior to bilateral orchiectomy and when prompt therapeutic response is needed but orchiectomy cannot be performed. however, it is not particularly useful for long-term hormonal therapy.
systemic idiopathic fibrosis with t-cell receptor gene rearrangement. a case of systemic idiopathic fibrosis was analyzed by southern blotting with probes to the immunoglobulin heavy chain and t-cell receptor genes. a 45-year-old man presented with bilateral neck swelling. he later developed lower back pain, and findings on a computed tomographic scan were consistent with idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis. a biopsy specimen of a neck lesion showed morphologic characteristics typical of idiopathic fibrosing cervicitis. immunophenotyping of the lesion revealed a polymorphic lymphoid population. molecular analysis with the use of probes to the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor genes disclosed a germline dna pattern for the immunoglobulin gene and a rearranged pattern for the t-cell receptor gene.
laser angioplasty in peripheral vascular disease: symptomatic versus hemodynamic results. most early reports on the efficacy of laser angioplasty have used subjective symptoms rather than objective hemodynamic parameters to evaluate clinical results. we reviewed our experience with hot tip laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in 99 occluded or stenotic arterial segments during 80 procedures in 71 patients, ranging from the aortic bifurcation to the tibial-peroneal trunk. initial failure to successfully recanalize occluded or stenotic segments occurred in 13 instances (16%). forty-one procedure-related complications occurred in 31 patients (39%). functional results were evaluated by use of life-table methods on the basis of symptomatic versus hemodynamic improvement. cumulative patency rates for symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement were 91% and 64% at 1 month, 71% and 48% at 6 months, and 57% and 34% at 1 year, respectively. these data suggest that symptomatic improvement alone gives a misleadingly high estimate of the efficacy of laser angioplasty when compared with more objective hemodynamic criteria (p less than 0.005). hemodynamic success was more likely in aortoiliac lesions than femoropopliteal lesions (58% vs 18% at 1 year, p less than 0.01). hemodynamic parameters should be used to evaluate the success of laser angioplasty, which in its present form, is associated with frequent complications and poor long-term success.
intrahepatic arterioportal fistula after blunt hepatic trauma: case reports. intrahepatic arterioportal fistula (apf) was found in five out of 65 consecutive patients following blunt hepatic trauma. in four patients the fistula was located peripherally and the blood flow was small. these fistulas closed spontaneously within 3 months. however, a centrally located fistula with early visualization of the trunk of the portal vein persisted in one patient and necessitated transcatheter embolization. the apf in this patient caused portal dilatation which was detectable by ct scan. we conclude that spontaneous closure can be expected when an apf is located peripherally and the shunt flow is small, while centrally located apf with large flow require active treatment, preferably by transcatheter embolization. an apf detectable by ct scan suggests the need of intervention.
captopril renography in the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis: accuracy and limitations. purpose: the purpose of this study was to determine the sensitivity, specificity, and clinical usefulness of renography performed in combination with captopril administration ("captopril renography") in diagnosing renal artery stenosis. patients and methods: fifty-five patients with suspected renal artery stenosis underwent renography prior to performance of renal angiography. renography was performed on two consecutive days using technetium-99m-diethylenetiamine pentaacetic acid (dtpa) as an index of glomerular filtration rate and iodine-131-orthoiodohippurate (oih) as an index of renal blood flow. captopril (25 mg orally, crushed) was administered 1 hour before the second study. renal artery stenosis was defined as a stenosis exceeding 70%. renographic criteria were then established, retrospectively, to differentiate renal artery stenosis from essential hypertension based on (1) asymmetry of function and (2) the presence of captopril-induced changes. results: renal artery stenosis was detected in 35 of 55 patients (21 with unilateral and 14 with bilateral stenosis). three criteria were established for diagnosing renal artery stenosis: (1) a percent uptake of dtpa by the affected kidney of less than 40% of the combined bilateral uptake, (2) a delayed time to peak uptake of dtpa, which was more than 5 minutes longer in the affected kidney than in the contralateral kidney, (3) a delayed excretion of dtpa, with retention at 15 minutes, as a fraction of peak activity, more than 20% greater than in the contralateral kidney. the presence of one or more of these criteria was diagnostic of renal artery stenosis, with a sensitivity and specificity of 71% and 75%, respectively before captopril administration, and 94% and 95% after captopril administration. lesser degrees of asymmetry (i.e., uptake of 40% to 50%) had very poor diagnostic specificity. among patients with bilateral stenoses, asymmetry identified the more severely affected kidney, but the presence or absence of stenosis in the contralateral kidney could not be reliably determined. when pre- and post-captopril studies were compared, the presence of captopril-induced scintigraphic changes was a highly specific finding for renal artery stenosis, but occurred in only 51% of the cases. oih scintigraphy provided similar results, with slightly lower sensitivity and specificity. conclusion: asymmetry of dtpa uptake, time to peak uptake, or retention seen on a single post-captopril renogram is a highly sensitive and specific finding in detecting renal artery stenosis but does not distinguish unilateral from bilateral disease. if renograms are obtained both before and after captopril administration, the presence of captopril-induced change is a highly specific finding for the detection of renal artery stenosis, but the sensitivity of this finding is low.
periurethral colonic-type polyp simulating urethral caruncle. a case report. a 50-year-old, black woman presented with a 1-cm, polypoid lesion on the posterior edge of the urethral meatus that had the gross appearance of a urethral caruncle. the histologic features, however, revealed a superficially ulcerated lesion composed of colonic-type mucosal glands with focal regenerative atypia in response to inflammation. a similar histologic pattern is also found in so-called solitary rectal ulcer syndrome and inflammatory cloacogenic polyps arising in the anorectal area. based upon an english-language literature review, this case appears to be the second reported one of an intestinal-type polyp in this location. the patient had no further problems after excisional biopsy.
oculo-bulbar myasthenic symptoms as the sole sign of tumour involving or compressing the brain stem. four patients with tumours involving or compressing the brain stem are described whose initial clinical symptoms of fluctuating paresis of the external ocular muscles and/or the pharyngeal muscles without other neurological deficits led to the primary diagnosis of focal myasthenia. the combination of an unusual clinical pattern, involvement of muscles of only one ocular nerve or severe dysphagia/dysarthria without extension of the myasthenic symptoms, should lead to further investigation to exclude other reasons of a focal myasthenic syndrome such as a brain-stem tumour.
midterm surgical results of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries with intact septum. between april 4, 1984, and december 31, 1987, 156 consecutive neonates with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent an arterial switch operation (aso) at our institution. surgery was performed before the age of 15 days in 96%, and patient weight was less than 3 kg in 28%. seventeen patients (10.9%) died after surgery. one patient was lost to follow-up. of the 138 survivors, two died of myocardial infarction 35 and 40 days, respectively, after surgery. they were the only late deaths, and actuarial survival rates were 87% (70% confidence level [cl], 83-89%) at 45 days and 87% (70% cl, 68-95%) at 52 months. another patient had a myocardial infarction 50 days after surgery and is well 50 months later. pulmonary stenosis was observed in 14 patients (10.3%) during the first year after surgery; two patients were reoperated on 10 and 12 months, respectively, after aso. aortic regurgitation was observed in 17 patients: two had grades ii and iii, respectively, aortic regurgitation on aortography; in 15 patients, it was detected only by doppler examination. at the last follow-up (2-52 months after aso; mean, 27.3 +/- 11.3 months), all patients were asymptomatic and taking no medication. on bidimensional echocardiography, left ventricular fractional shortening was normal at rest in all survivors but one. one patient had junctional rhythm, and one had wenckebach periods; the remainder were in sinus rhythm. for as long as 5 years after aso, late death and reintervention were rare; 99% of the survivors were asymptomatic and had sinus rhythm and good systemic ventricular function.
chronic oral etoposide. etoposide is an important drug that has been recently incorporated with other agents in the curative treatment of patients with advanced neoplasms, including germ cell tumors, non-hodgkin's lymphomas (nhl), and small cell lung cancer (sclc). etoposide demonstrates remarkable schedule dependency. a randomized comparison has shown an impressive survival difference for patients with extensive sclc receiving a 5-day course versus those receiving a 1-day course. because of these and previous clinical and laboratory data, etoposide is now given intravenously or orally in a 3-day to 5-day schedule. it is generally accepted that approximately 50% of the orally administered drug is absorbed. the authors have initiated several etoposide studies using an extended administration schedule, believing that a prolonged schedule may be superior to the standard 3-day to 5-day schedule. this was initially tested in a phase i study. results showed that etoposide (50 mg/m2/d) given over 21 days was feasible and was associated with only moderate toxicity. several phase ii studies have been completed or are nearing completion, including studies in patients with sclc, nhl, germ cell tumors, soft tissue sarcoma, renal carcinoma, and ovarian carcinoma. responses have been seen in all of these groups, particularly in patients with sclc, lymphoma, and germ cell tumors. in these groups we saw responses in patients who were clearly resistant to etoposide plus cisplatin given in a standard schedule or in some patients who were resistant to high-dose etoposide with bone marrow transplantation. investigators at indiana university medical center who studied oral etoposide in a similar fashion in patients with advanced germ cell tumors and sclc achieved results similar to those reported here. the authors have initiated a number of combination chemotherapy programs using the chronic oral form of etoposide. these include patients with sclc, non-small cell lung cancer, and elderly patients with high-grade and intermediate forms of nhl. in addition, chronic intravenous oral etoposide is being used in salvage approaches for patients with acute myelocytic leukemia and recurrent resistant intermediate-grade and high-grade nhl. preliminary pharmacokinetic data suggest that a 50-mg/m2 oral dose is highly bioavailable (91% to 96%). therefore, during a prolonged oral course at 50 mg/m2, many patients maintain a minimum plasma concentration of 1 microgram/ml. further studies of multiple dose or continuous infusion etoposide to maintain a potentially critical plasma level are in progress. etoposide administered in this way could represent a "new" drug because many of its features are different, and its activity spectrum may be broader.
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. stagnara wake-up tests, blood flow measures, somatosensory evoked potentials (seps), and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at l3-l4. overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of nmeps. results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia. blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally. finally, nmeps were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than seps. nmeps should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than seps. because nmeps and seps provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts, the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery.
reflections on the u.s. preventive services task force recommendations for screening for hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. the u.s. preventive services task force recommendations for screening for hypertension and high blood cholesterol are generally consistent with preexisting national guidelines promulgated by the joint national committee for detection, evaluation, and treatment of high blood pressure and the national cholesterol education program expert panel on detection, evaluation, and treatment of high cholesterol in adults. while a welcome addition to the armamentarium of the clinician, the task force recommendations represent only a partial solution to our current epidemic of blood-pressure- and cholesterol-related cardiovascular disease. a meaningful reduction in society's burden of cardiovascular disease can be achieved only by complementing the task force recommendations with community-based mass treatment strategies aimed at shifting the distribution of blood pressure and cholesterol toward a biologically more normal pattern.
a rapid, effective technique for retrograde crossing of valvular aortic stenosis using standard coronary catheters retrograde crossing of valvular aortic stenosis can be challenging even to experienced angiographers. in 446 of 447 consecutive patients with aortic stenosis catheterized during the past 3 years, a technique using a standard judkins right coronary catheter and a floppy straight tipped guide wire was successful in rapidly and efficiently crossing these pathologically distorted valves in retrograde fashion. once the valve was crossed, the coronary catheter was replaced with a pigtail catheter for pressure and ventriculography. the majority of these valves required less than 2 min to cross using this technique. this method is valuable in limiting the time required for catheterization, thus helping to reduce procedure related morbidity in these oftimes critically ill patients.
uniparental paternal disomy in angelman's syndrome. angelman's syndrome and prader-willi syndrome are both causes of mental retardation with recognisable, but quite different, clinical phenotypes. both are associated with deletions of chromosome 15q11-13, of maternal origin in angelman's and paternal in prader-willi. prader-willi can arise by inheritance of two chromosomes 15 from the mother and none from the father (uniparental maternal disomy). in 2 patients with angelman's syndrome we found evidence of uniparental paternal disomy. the phenotypic effects of maternal and paternal disomy of chromosome 15 are very different and inheritance of two normal 15s from one parent does not lead to normal development--strong evidence in man for genomic imprinting, in which the same gene has different effects dependent upon its parental origin.
deficiency of calcitonin gene-related peptide in raynaud's phenomenon. skin biopsy samples from the fingers of nine patients with primary raynaud's phenomenon, nine with the disorder associated with systemic sclerosis, and eleven healthy controls were examined by immunocytochemistry. there were no differences between the groups in the distribution of pgp 9.5 (a pan-neuronal marker) immunoreactivity, but there was a significant reduction in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp) immunoreactive neurons in the skin of patients with primary raynaud's phenomenon and those with systemic sclerosis. these findings implicate dysfunction of the cgrp neurovascular axis in the pathophysiology of raynaud's phenomenon.
rate-related left bundle branch block as a cause of non-ischemic chest pain. a case is presented of rate-dependent left bundle branch block associated with chest pain in a patient with angiographically normal coronary arteries. lactate extraction showed no evidence of myocardial ischemia. it appears that in this case, chest pain was associated with sudden ventricular asynergy rather than myocardial ischemia.
evidence of a local immune activation in cystic brain tumors. the fluid of cystic brain tumors was characterized with regard to the protein content. in most malignant tumors, the concentrations of immunoglobulins g and m (igg and igm) were higher relative to other proteins in the cyst fluid than in the serum of the same patient. a markedly elevated ratio of monomeric to pentameric igm was detected in the cyst fluid of two patients with glioblastomas. the results indicate a local immunoglobulin synthesis in malignant cystic brain tumors. it is hypothesized that higher-than-expected concentrations of igg and igm in cyst fluid as compared to plasma are a sign of an ongoing immune response triggered by the tumor.
influence of clinical and hemodynamic variables on risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass. the influence of 45 variables on risk of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia was evaluated by univariate and multivariate analysis of data from 800 consecutive patients who underwent isolated coronary artery bypass during a 6-year interval. postoperative supraventricular arrhythmias occurred in 186 patients (23%) but did not contribute to any of the six early deaths (30-day mortality rate, 0.8%). mean (+/- standard deviation) length of hospital stay was longer (9.8 +/- 5.7 versus 8.3 +/- 3.5 days; p less than 0.0001) and mean age was older (65 versus 60 years; p less than 0.002) in patients with postoperative supraventricular tachycardia than in those with regular rhythm. risk of supraventricular tachycardia was increased in patients with a history of atrial arrhythmias (45% versus 22%; p less than 0.002) or premature atrial contractions on the preoperative electrocardiogram (48% versus 22%; p less than 0.002). multiple logistic regression analysis identified age 65 years or more, history of atrial arrhythmia or preoperative premature atrial contractions, and preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more as independent predictors of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia. six percent of patients converted to sinus rhythm spontaneously; 82% of patients converted within 1.1 +/- 1.9 days after onset of supraventricular tachycardia on treatment with digoxin or beta-adrenergic blocking drugs or both. only 10% of patients with supraventricular tachycardia required electrical cardioversion. we conclude that the risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass is influenced by patient-related variables and is effectively managed by conventional therapy. prophylactic treatment should be reserved for elderly patients, especially those who have atrial arrhythmias or have preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more.
effect of age on coronary circulation after imposition of pressure-overload in rats. we examined the effects of pressure overload on coronary circulation in young adult (7 months old) and old rats (18 months old). four weeks after the ascending aorta was banded, in vivo left ventricular pressure was measured to estimate the degree of pressure load. in the two age groups, similar increases in peak left ventricular pressure were observed (113 +/- 7 mm hg in sham-operated rats versus 160 +/- 11 mm hg in banded rats of the young adult group; 103 +/- 7 mm hg in sham-operated rats versus 156 +/- 11 mm hg in banded rats of the old group). after isolating the hearts, they were perfused with tyrode's solution containing bovine red blood cells and albumin. resting coronary perfusion pressure-flow relations and reactive hyperemic response after a 40-second ischemia were obtained under beating but nonworking conditions. in young adult banded rats, significant myocardial hypertrophy was observed at the organ level (124% of controls in left ventricular dry weight/body weight ratio; 119% in left ventricular dry weight/tibial length ratio) and at the cell level. minimal coronary vascular resistance obtained by the perfusion pressure-peak flow relation during reactive hyperemia increased to 150% of controls, and coronary flow reserve decreased significantly. in contrast, myocardial hypertrophy was not observed at the organ or cell level in old banded rats. however, minimal coronary vascular resistance increased, and flow reserve decreased significantly. thus, pressure overload with coronary arterial hypertension caused abnormalities of the coronary circulation in old subjects even in the absence of myocardial hypertrophy.
indwelling epidural catheters for pain control in gynecologic cancer patients. seven patients with severe pain caused by an advanced, incurable gynecologic malignancy were treated with an indwelling epidural catheter connected to an implantable subcutaneous port through which morphine was infused. there were few major complications associated with insertion or maintenance of the system. the average usage was 60 days, although the system functioned continuously for 6 months in one patient. pain distribution in these women ranged from the upper abdomen to the lower extremities. all patients, including one with liver metastases, reported good to excellent pain control with the epidural narcotics. two subjects with upper abdominal pain occasionally required supplemental oral oxycodone, but the other five patients had adequate pain relief with the epidural system alone. the indwelling epidural system provides excellent analgesia for patients with advanced, incurable gynecologic cancer.
babbling in the manual mode: evidence for the ontogeny of language. infant vocal babbling has been assumed to be a speech-based phenomenon that reflects the maturation of the articulatory apparatus responsible for spoken language production. manual babbling has now been reported to occur in deaf children exposed to signed languages from birth. the similarities between manual and vocal babbling suggest that babbling is a product of an amodal, brain-based language capacity under maturational control, in which phonetic and syllabic units are produced by the infant as a first step toward building a mature linguistic system. contrary to prevailing accounts of the neurological basis of babbling in language ontogeny, the speech modality is not critical in babbling. rather, babbling is tied to the abstract linguistic structure of language and to an expressive capacity capable of processing different types of signals (signed or spoken).
female gout. clinical spectrum and uric acid metabolism. we reviewed the clinical features and uric acid metabolism in 37 female patients with gout. in 32 female patients (86%), gout was diagnosed after menopause. among the five premenopausal patients, four had renal insufficiency and one had superactivity of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase. more than 50% of the female patients had osteoarthritis, hypertension, or renal insufficiency or were treated with diuretics. comparison with 220 male patients with gout showed that female patients developed gout significantly later, more frequently had associated diseases, and more often were receiving diuretics, whereas significantly more male than female patients had alcoholism. the articular features of gout were similar in both groups. however, the prevalence of tophi was higher and its localization different in female than in male patients. female patients with gout had a higher mean serum urate concentration and a lower mean urinary uric acid excretion than did male patients with gout. these differences were significant and independent of the effects of age, renal insufficiency, alcoholism, or previous diuretic intake. renal underexcretion of uric acid appears to be more severe in female than in male patients with gout.
acute osteomyelitis in children. although relatively uncommon, osteomyelitis is an important disease because of the potential for chronicity or permanent sequelae. diagnostic methods, the spectrum of the disease, and clinical situations that merit special consideration are reviewed in this article.
the location of the maxillary os and its importance to the endoscopic sinus surgeon. as functional endoscopic sinus surgery continues to gain popularity and support, the necessity for a clear and accurate understanding of the anatomy of the ostiomeatal complex becomes essential. to clarify this anatomy, serial cadaver dissections were performed and the anatomy of the ostiomeatal complex was detailed in three dimensions, with an emphasis on precise localization of the internal os of the maxillary sinus as it relates to the orbit, natural antronasal canal, and ethmoid infundibulum. measurements of the position of the internal os relative to the position of the anterior and posterior walls of the maxillary sinus and the position of the orbit were taken. the dimensions and configuration of the antronasal canal and its relationship to the infundibulum were also detailed. these measurements and relationships must be understood for an endoscopic sinus surgeon to locate the natural ostia without injuring the orbit.
long-term treatment of crohn's disease with cyclosporine: the effect of a very low dose on maintenance of remission. low-dose oral cyclosporine was used to maintain remission in patients with crohn's disease. in seven patients, cyclosporine was used as a steroid-sparing agent; in 14 it was given for refractory active disease as an adjunct to conventional treatment, and then continued as maintenance treatment. cyclosporine was given at an initial dose of 5 mg/kg reduced by 1 mg/kg at 2-month intervals until a maintenance dose of 2 mg/kg was reached. of the seven patients in whom cyclosporine was used as a steroid-sparing agent, six had a relapse. remission was achieved in seven of the refractory active group, but cyclosporine was withdrawn because of side effects in six of the patients in this group. of the seven patients who had achieved remission, six subsequently had a relapse. therefore, 12 of 14 patients (86%) in remission had a relapse despite cyclosporine maintenance. ten of these (83%) had a relapse at a cyclosporine dose of 2 or 3 mg/kg. cyclosporine levels at relapse (median, 74 ng/ml) were lower than the mean levels over the first 6 weeks of treatment (median, 130 ng/ml; p = 0.02). our data do not support the use of cyclosporine to maintain remission in crohn's disease.
effects of short-term pancreatic duct obstruction in rats. the short-term effects of rat pancreatic duct obstruction were evaluated and compared with those recently reported to follow obstruction of the rabbit pancreatic duct. in both species pancreatic edema and hyperamylasemia are noted, and the lysosomal hydrolase cathepsin b is redistributed from the lysosome-enriched to the zymogen granule-enriched subcellular fraction. theoretically, this redistribution phenomenon might lead to digestive enzyme activation because cathepsin b is known to be capable of activating trypsinogen. the hyperamylasemia and pancreatic edema (but not the cathepsin b redistribution) that follow rat pancreatic duct obstruction were increased by infusion of a submaximally stimulating dose of the cholecystokinin analogue cerulein. administration of the cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist l-364,718 reduced the hyperamylasemia but did not alter the pancreatic edema or cathepsin b redistribution. these observations indicate that cholecystokinin may modulate some but not all of the effects of duct obstruction. secretin administration increased the degree of pancreatic edema and had no demonstrable protective effect. the rat duct-obstruction model described in this report may prove particularly useful in future studies designed to clarify the early events underlying the development of acute pancreatitis.
microheterogeneity of acute phase proteins in the differentiation of polymyalgia rheumatica from polymyositis. we studied an alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (agp) and an alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (acht) microheterogeneity in sera of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr), giant cell arteritis (gca/pmr), polymyositis/dermatomyositis (pm/dm) and healthy individuals by affinity electrophoresis with concanavalin a (con-a) as the ligand. our results are expressed as reactivity coefficients. the mean of agp reactivity coefficients (ag-rc +/- sd) in pmr (0.92 +/- 0.17) and gca/pmr (0.91 +/- 0.12) were significantly lower compared with the mean ag-rc in patients with pm/dm (1.48 +/- 0.52) as well as in healthy individuals (1.34 +/- 0.9). moreover, an additional microheterogeneous form of agp was noted in patients with pm/dm. in parallel, we also found that the mean of acht reactivity coefficients (ac-rc +/- sd) were lower in patients with pmr (2.94 +/- 1.24) and gca/pmr (1.66 +/- 0.16) compared with healthy individuals (3.92 +/- 1.17). the mean of ac-rc in patients with pm/dm (6.74 +/- 4.35) was significantly higher than in patients with pmr and gca/pmr as well as in healthy individuals. our results show that the changes in reactivity of agp and acht with con-a are useful diagnostic markers for the differentiation of pmr and gca/pmr from pm/dm.
elapsed time from symptom onset and acute myocardial infarction in a community hospital. study objective: previous reports have emphasized that thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction should be initiated within three or four hours of symptom onset to obtain the best clinical outcomes. however, our clinical impression was that late arrivers, who often do not receive thrombolytic therapy, have a good short-term prognosis. therefore, we investigated the relationships among the elapsed time from symptom onset, thrombolytic therapy, and short-term prognosis in acute myocardial infarction patients. the research hypothesis was that late arrivers have a better in-hospital prognosis because they have less severe disease that may involve spontaneous thrombolysis. design: observational cohort study based on reviewing medical records and emergency department service logs. setting: 500-bed teaching hospital with medical school affiliation in northeastern ohio. type of participants: four hundred consecutive patients with acute infarction confirmed by chest pain and positive ecgs or elevated cardiac enzymes. measurements and main results: patients arriving early (elapsed time less than or equal to 1.5 hours) were more likely to be in killip class iii or iv (p = .04) or to have hypotension (p = .0004); and they experienced twofold increased odds of ventricular tachycardia (p = .007), cardiac arrest (p = .03), or death (p = .01). patients arriving late (elapsed time greater than 3.5 hours) were more likely to have a history of angina (p = .002) and had a better short-term prognosis. conclusions: time of ed arrival after onset of acute myocardial infarction symptoms distinguishes two patient groups that differ in their risk of in-hospital complications. late arrivers have better short-term prognoses and less (acutely) severe disease, and may have less need for thrombolytic therapy because of possible spontaneous thrombolysis. patients with prior angina may need education on seeking care if their symptoms change.
comparison of a new immunoassay for determining serum pancreatic isoamylase with two standard techniques. a method has recently been developed for measuring serum pancreatic (p) isoamylase, using two monoclonal antibodies specific for salivary isoamylase. we performed this test on 67 healthy controls and 133 patients: 15 with acute pancreatitis, 53 with chronic pancreatitis (20 during painful relapse and 33 in clinical remission), 18 with pancreatic cancer, 41 with nonpancreatic disease with abdominal pain, five with macroamylasemia, and one with total pancreatectomy. results were compared with those of a wheat germ inhibition method and with electrophoresis on cellulose acetate. a close correlation was found between the results of immunoinhibition assay and those of the other two tests. all patients with acute pancreatitis had abnormally high values in all three tests. in the group with chronic pancreatitis studied during painful relapse, 16 had an increase in p-isoamylase, as determined with the immunoinhibition assay, 13 with the wheat germ inhibition test, and 15 with electrophoresis. in the group with chronic pancreatitis in clinical remission, we found low values in one patient, by immunoinhibition assay, but found low values in 17 and 19 patients by wheat germ inhibition and electrophoresis, respectively. low p-isoamylase values corresponded to a severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. in the group with pancreatic cancer, the three tests showed similar results, and the majority of the patients had normal values. in the patients with nonpancreatic diseases, abnormally high levels were found in five, by immunoassay, in four by electrophoresis, and in three by the wheat germ inhibition method. in the five cases with macroamylasemia, both inhibition assays erroneously demonstrated an abnormal p-isoamylase elevation. the results show that the three tests are equally useful for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, or chronic pancreatitis during an acute relapse. in these diseases, the immunoinhibition test would be the preferred assay because it is simple and rapidly performed.
clinical features and associations of 560 cases of motor neuron disease. in 560 cases of motor neuron disease, studied retrospectively from their case notes in three teaching centres, the age at onset ranged from 13 to 87 years (mean 56 years), and the mean duration of illness until death was 2.6 years. in the subgroup of the disease presenting with progressive bulbar palsy presenting after age 59 years, there was a previously unrecognised excess of females sufficient to equalize the sex ratio of incidence of the disease in this age group. no potentially causative clinical associations emerged; no relation was noted between occupational exposure to leather products, trauma or surgical procedures and the disease. there was a trend for patients with motor neuron disease to give a history of abstention from alcohol.
progress and challenges in psychosocial and behavioral research in cancer in the twentieth century. research in the psychosocial and behavioral aspects of cancer has shown steady growth since the 1950s, and its course of development has paralleled the history of medical techniques in treating cancer. table 1 outlines this parallel evolution from the 1850s to the 1960s. the roles of the american cancer society and the national cancer institute (nci) in spearheading and nurturing research in this area are documented. interest in psychooncologic questions can be traced back for centuries to the search for etiologic factors and psychologic variables that would explain individual vulnerability to cancer. the first psychologic studies of cancer patients were reported in 1951 and 1952 from the massachusetts general hospital and memorial sloan-kettering cancer center, respectively. the 1970s saw new interest in psychosocial and behavioral research with many issues being addressed for the first time: better care of the terminally ill through more humanistic approaches including better means of pain control; ethical concerns related to patient rights and their status as subjects in experimental protocols; trying to measure quality of life for cancer patients on protocols; seeing the need for multidisciplinary collaborative groups to make up for the absence of formal training in this area; and the need to design valid, accurate measuring scales specific to the symptomology of patients with cancer. table 4 outlines how the 1980s gave increasing recognition and support to the psychosocial dimensions of cancer. this period produced a series of key conferences that examined a broad research and education perspective and produced recommendations that remain a benchmark in regard to instrumentation, conceptual models, pitfalls of psychosocial research, training, and education, and the organization of research efforts. new precision has been added to the field in the past 6 years: studies measuring concurrent psychologic, endocrine, and immune function; use of statistical modeling to incorporate quality of life data as a correction factor in survival data (twist and qaly); and broadened definitions of medical outcome to include functional status, thus allowing advances in psychiatric measurements to help answer questions in cancer. the challenges for the 1990s are identified in a summary in table 9. especially noteworthy is the observation that the comprehensive research needed today cannot be carried out by any one discipline alone. new approaches call for areas of the social sciences formerly inactive in cancer research (e.g., anthropology) to contribute the tools and expertise required to address the problems.
osteonecrosis of the knee after arthroscopic surgery: diagnosis with mr imaging. spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee typically is a disease of the elderly characterized by an acute onset of pain. the exact cause of this condition has long been debated, although a causative relationship between meniscal tears and spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee has been postulated. seven patients with knee pain, meniscal tears, and chondromalacia without initial evidence of osteonecrosis at magnetic resonance (mr) imaging underwent arthroscopic surgery with meniscal recontouring or repair and cartilage shaving. these patients returned within 2-14 months with recurrent pain in the treated knee. mr imaging then demonstrated abnormalities consistent with osteonecrosis. osteonecrosis of the femoral condyle or tibial plateau may be a late sequela of meniscal injury in association with chondromalacia and arthroscopic surgery. this diagnosis should be suspected in patients with recurrent knee pain after arthroscopic repair of meniscal tears. the precise relationship of this pattern of osteonecrosis to that previously described as spontaneous requires further investigation.
high-dose etoposide and marrow transplantation. etoposide underwent conventional phase i testing in the 1970s. the dose-limiting toxicity in these studies was mild myelosuppression; other toxicities were infrequent. if a greater degree of myelosuppression is accepted, higher than standard doses could be given. this approach takes advantage of the steep dose-response relationship for most chemotherapeutic agents, including etoposide, as shown in early in vitro and clinical studies. thus, etoposide was considered an ideal agent for further dose-escalation studies, given its wide range of clinical antitumor activity at standard doses, steep dose-response curve, mild bone marrow suppression, and few nonmyeloid side effects. the high-dose etoposide studies that followed used improved and more intensive hematologic supportive care, including, in some trials, autologous marrow transplantation. when etoposide was used as a single agent in these high-dose trials, mucositis, and, to a lesser degree, hepatic dysfunction were dose-limiting. the maximum tolerated dose (mtd) in this setting was 2.4 to 3.0 g/m2. multi-agent phase i trials with etoposide and cyclophosphamide, total body irradiation, carmustine, or carboplatin also resulted in dose-limiting mucosal toxicity, with liver and lung problems appearing more often than with high-dose etoposide alone. the toxicity and mtd can be influenced markedly by the schedule of administration. etoposide as a continuous intravenous infusion can be given at doses of 4.2 g/m2 (with 200 mg/kg cyclophosphamide) with similar toxicity, but without marrow support. the antitumor results in the lymphomas set the stage for treatment of solid tumors, where treatment of patients with "sensitive" relapses had the best outcome. lymphoma patients had an 80% response rate; overall, long-term (greater than 2 years) disease-free survival was approximately 40%. germ cell tumors were also responsive, and the same pattern of sensitive relapses and improvement in responding patients was seen (50% to 75% of patients greater than 1 year). in breast cancer and small cell lung cancer (sclc), high-dose etoposide-containing regimens were used to intensify standard therapy. the results in these settings were not quite as good (breast cancer, 30% disease-free survival at 2 years; sclc, 10% at 2 years).
popliteal artery aneurysms. long-term follow-up of aneurysmal disease and results of surgical treatment. the natural history of aneurysmal disease was analyzed in 50 patients who were treated for 71 popliteal aneurysms. no patients were lost to follow-up (mean, 5.0 years). initially, 25 popliteal aneurysms (25/71; 35%) were treated nonsurgically, and 46 (46/71; 65%) were treated surgically. complications developed in 12 of the 21 asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms (57%) and in 2 of the 4 symptomatic popliteal aneurysms (50%), which were treated nonsurgically. the probability of developing complications increased with time to 74% within 5 years. when reconstruction of a popliteal aneurysm was performed, graft patency and foot salvage were 64% and 95% at 10 years, respectively. particularly acute arterial thromboembolism was a severe presenting complication. another important finding was the development of 23 arteriosclerotic aneurysms at other locations during follow-up in 16 patients (32%). the probability of developing these new aneurysms increased to 49% 10 years after repair of the initial popliteal aneurysm. the presence of multiple isolated aneurysms at the initial examination was the most significant risk factor limiting the survival of these patients. consequently patients at risk could be identified early. this study confirms the limb-threatening potential of popliteal aneurysms when left untreated. therefore prophylactic reconstructive surgery should be undertaken. moreover, this study demonstrates that patients with a popliteal artery aneurysm have an increased risk of new aneurysm formation, both in the popliteal artery and at other locations. therefore these patients should be followed and, in the event that new aneurysms develop, should be considered for elective reconstructive surgery to prevent limb-threatening or life-endangering complications.
indications for distal arterial reconstruction in the presence of palpable pedal pulses. eight patients with severe pedal ischemia in the presence of palpable foot pulses are described. all had atherosclerosis, and seven patients also had diabetes. there were two anatomic patterns of disease, including supramalleolar obstruction with reconstitution of pulsatile flow in three patients and segmental occlusion of the pedal vessels in five. all patients underwent arterial reconstructive surgery. patency was sustained in six patients, with limb salvage in five and below-knee amputation in one patient for persistent necrosis and infection of an open amputation. of the two eventual bypass failures, a transmetatarsal amputation continued to heal in one patient, and the other required amputation below the knee. palpable pedal pulses and satisfactory ankle/brachial indexes did not rule out the presence of surgically correctable distal arterial occlusive disease. therefore arteriography is indicated in any patient with persistent forefoot ischemia that fails to respond to conservative measures. the safety and patency of the distal reconstructive procedures performed in this series suggest that salvage of weight-bearing tissue and rapid healing, as well as limb salvage, are legitimate indications for revascularization.
multimodality preoperative treatment for advanced stage iv (mo) cancer of the head and neck. sixty-three patients with advanced unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with a combination of chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery. we observed a 75% response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. the 5-year survival rate for all 63 patients was 20%, and only 3 patients were alive at 8 years. the 5-year survival rate for patients who completed the treatment plan and received chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery was 43% compared with 20% for those who had chemotherapy and radiation but refused surgery. development of a second primary cancer was the cause of death in 62% of the patients who survived more than 24 months.
the role of ercp in children and adolescents. the diagnostic and therapeutic role of ercp in 42 patients ranging from 1 to 19 years of age is discussed. ercp provided useful additional information in 15 patients with biliary tract disease, 15 patients with pancreatic disease, and 9 patients with abdominal pain. the appropriate duct was cannulated in 95% of cases. mild pancreatitis occurred in two patients after ercp. endoscopic papillotomy was successful in five patients. ercp plays an important part in the investigation of unexplained biliary tract and pancreatic disease. it rarely demonstrates abnormal pathology in patients with otherwise unexplained abdominal pain.
cytoreductive hepatic surgery for neuroendocrine tumors. we retrospectively reviewed 37 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 1970 and 1989 to evaluate the role of cytoreductive hepatic surgery in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors (carcinoid, 24; islet cell, 13). seventeen resections were curative (no gross residual tumor); nine patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and seven patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor. eight of nine patients with symptomatic endorcrinopathies obtained complete relief of symptoms; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 2 to 82 months (mean, 26 months). six of seven patients with symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 5 to 28 months (mean, 14 months). one symptom-free patient underwent curative hepatic resection 5 years after abdominoperineal resection for a rectal carcinoid. twenty resections were palliative (gross residual tumor); 16 patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and 4 patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor. eight of 16 patients with symptomatic endocrinopathies obtained complete relief; five are alive at 2 to 30 months (mean, 11 months), with a mean duration of complete relief of 6 months (3 to 12 months). all four patients who underwent resection for symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief; two are alive and symptom free at 10 and 101 months. our experience suggests that curative surgery should be considered in all patients with completely resectable metastatic disease and that palliative surgery, despite the short duration of complete relief, should be considered in selected patients because it delays and may reduce the subsequent need for medical therapy.
cheilitis granulomatosa: report of six cases and review of the literature. six cases of cheilitis granulomatosa, a rare inflammatory disorder of unknown origin, are reported. the condition produces nontender, persistent swelling of one or both lips and affects primarily young adults. histologically, nonnecrotizing granulomatous inflammation is seen. the clinical findings and results of therapy in these six cases are presented. one patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulfate (plaquenil) that stabilized the process. one of our patients had vesicular-appearing lesions. microscopic examination showed the lesions to be dilated superficial lymphatic channels, a finding that to our knowledge has not been previously described.
microbiological studies of the enterocolitis of hirschsprung's disease. the results of a prospective study of 20 cases of newly diagnosed hirschsprung's disease (nine of whom developed enterocolitis) and 10 normal controls showed no variations in the bacterial flora (including clostridium difficile) in the stools of the groups studied. viral studies showed that rotavirus was present in the stools of seven of the nine cases of enterocolitis during the episode. we suggest that hirschsprung's enterocolitis may have a complex infective aetiology and that rotavirus plays a part.
routine and quantitative eeg analysis in gilles de la tourette's syndrome. gilles de la tourette's syndrome (gdlt) is a neurobehavioral disorder, with a reportedly high frequency of eeg abnormalities. we performed eegs on 48 consecutive patients with gdlt, and frequency analysis in 26 patients (17 males), and compared the results with those from age- and sex-matched normal controls. routine 18-channel eeg revealed minimal diffuse nonspecific slowing in only 3 of 48 patients (6%) and in 2 of 26 controls (7.7%). the frequency analysis of the eeg of the 26 gdlt patients and their normal controls showed similar brain activity. we conclude that no significant differences exist between the eeg activity in gdlt patients as compared with that in sex- and age-matched controls in routine as well as in quantitative eeg.
tissue-specific transformation by epidermal growth factor receptor: a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the erbb product increases its intrinsic kinase activity and activates its sarcomagenic potential. avian c-erbb is activated to a leukemia oncogene following truncation of its amino-terminal, ligand-binding domain by retroviral insertion. the insertionally activated transcripts encode protein products that have constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and that can induce erythro-leukemia but not sarcomas. we have found that a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the tyrosine kinase domain in this truncated molecule can increase the ability of this oncogene to induce anchorage-independent growth of fibroblasts in vitro and fibrosarcoma formation in vivo. associated with this increased transforming potential is a corresponding increase in the kinase activity of the mutant erbb protein product. the mutation, which converts a valine to isoleucine at position 157 of the insertionally activated c-erbb product, is at a residue that is highly conserved within the protein kinase family. to our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a point mutation in the atp-binding pocket that activates a tyrosine kinase.
experience with photocoagulation in behcet's disease. between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet's disease. of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined, 38 eyes (6.8%) in 33 patients (11%) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion, branch retinal vein occlusion, or retinal or disc neovascularization. these eyes were treated by photocoagulation, primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma, as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion. the treatment, which was well tolerated, was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization. disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases, and partially in others.
hemodynamic consequences of carotid-carotid bypass for innominate artery stenosis. the carotid-carotid cervical bypass is one surgical option for symptomatic atherosclerotic lesions of the innominate artery. controversy exists regarding the necessity of surgically excluding the innominate plaque from the cerebral circuit. a canine study was instituted to characterize the hemodynamic alterations that occur in the right common carotid artery proximal to the bypass graft, termed the critical segment. the direction of flow in the critical segment determines whether emboli originating in the innominate may be propelled cranially despite a patent bypass graft. six mongrel dogs underwent placement of an autogenous arterial crossover graft as a carotid-carotid bypass. a stenosis of the innominate artery was quantitatively altered, and an electromagnetic flowmeter measured the magnitude and direction of flow in the critical segment at three levels of diameter reduction in the innominate artery. for low-grade stenoses, flow in the critical segment was always prograde. for high-grade stenoses, the flow was always reversed. stenoses between 57% and 67% yielded flow values of 10 +/- 24 ml/min, and it was in this range that mean flow reversal was found to occur. even when the mean flow was near zero in the critical segment, flow was not stagnant but oscillated in antegrade and retrograde directions throughout the cardiac cycle. these data indicate that a carotid-carotid bypass causes complete flow reversal in the critical segment when there is high-grade stenosis in the innominate artery. theoretical analysis of the hemodynamic circuit indicated that arm exercise would augment retrograde flow in the critical segment.
the many faces and phases of borreliosis ii. borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of lyme disease, has also been associated with other cutaneous conditions. acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and lymphadenosis benigna cutis are also caused by b. burgdorferi. recent evidence links some cases of progressive facial hemiatrophy of parry-romberg, benign lymphocytic infiltrate of the skin (jessner-kanof), lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, morphea, and shulman syndrome with borreliae. this article reviews the manifestations of the diseases definitely linked to borreliosis and the evidence linking borreliae to progressive facial hemiatrophy, benign lymphocytic infiltrate, lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, morphea, and shulman syndrome.
disturbed gastroduodenal motility in patients with active and healed duodenal ulceration. disordered gastroduodenal motility may promote duodenal ulceration by allowing prolonged acid contact with the duodenal mucosa. using a multilumen perfused catheter incorporating 3 ph microelectrodes, antral and duodenal ph and antropyloroduodenal pressure activity were recorded in 36 subjects (10 with healed duodenal ulceration, 11 with active duodenal ulceration, and 15 healthy volunteers) during fasting and after a radiolabeled solid test meal. correct ph probe/catheter position was continuously verified by recording transmucosal potential difference across the pylorus. patients with active and healed duodenal ulcer had similarly disordered gastroduodenal motility. the chief abnormalities consisted of an increase in postprandial duodenal retroperistalsis (healed duodenal ulceration, 12 +/- 1 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 12 +/- 1; control, 6 +/- 1; mean +/- sem: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, p = 0.004 and p = 0.03, respectively), a reduction in pressure waves sweeping aborally through the duodenum after the meal (healed duodenal ulceration, 22 +/- 4 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 23 +/- 3; control, 34 +/- 4: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, p = 0.04 and p less than 0.05, respectively), and an increased incidence of atypical, complex forms of coordinated duodenal motor activity throughout the study (postprandial data; healed duodenal ulceration, 8 +/- 1 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 10 +/- 1; control, 4 +/- 1: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, p = 0.02 and p less than 0.02, respectively). in addition, gastric emptying of the solid test meal was significantly delayed in healed, but not active, duodenal ulceration [half-emptying time, healed duodenal ulceration 185 minutes (117-235); active duodenal ulceration 102 minutes (80-200); control 107 minutes (78-130): healed duodenal ulceration vs. control, p less than 0.009]. duodenal bulb ph was similar in controls and patients with active duodenal ulceration; however, bulb ph was less than 4 for a significantly greater period of time in healed duodenal ulceration compared with active ulcer patients, particularly after the meal. in conclusion, duodenal ulcer disease is associated with disturbed gastroduodenal motility, even when the ulcer is quiescent and when intraduodenal acidity is low. in healed duodenal ulceration, disturbed motility may promote ulcer relapse by impairing acid clearance from the bulb. however, in active ulceration other factors such as mucosal bicarbonate secretion may have a more influential role in determining intraduodenal ph.
vulvar paget's disease. is immunocytochemistry helpful in assessing the surgical margins? from january 1977 to december 1988, 19 patients with biopsy-proven paget's disease of the vulva underwent simple or radical vulvectomy at the university of miami/jackson memorial medical center. all vulvectomy specimens were evaluated immunocytochemically for the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (cea), epithelial membrane antigen (ema) and low-molecular-weight keratins 8 and 18 (lmk), both in areas containing neoplastic cells and in histologically negative surgical margins. neoplastic paget's cells stained positively for cea in all cases; they were positive for ema and lmk in 18 and 17 cases, respectively. in all eight cases with underlying in situ or invasive carcinomas, cea, ema and lmk were localized in the underlying tumors as well. none of the histologically proven negative margins reacted for cea, ema or lmk on immunocytochemistry. cea appears to be a valuable immunocytochemical marker for extramammary paget's disease; ema and lmk are also expressed by the majority of such cases. none of these markers, however, is of added value in identifying paget's cells in surgical margins if those margins appear negative on routine hematoxylin-and-eosin staining.
skeletal muscle following tonic overload: functional and structural analysis. functional overloading of skeletal muscle induces a compensatory hypertrophy as an adaptive response to increased functional demand. overload of the extensor digitorum longus (edl) muscle (129 rej strain male mouse) was induced by unilateral surgical removal of a synergistic muscle, tibialis anterior (ta). response of the edl to overload for 7, 21, and 42 d was analyzed for changes in 1) muscle weight, 2) myofiber type distribution, 3) myofiber cross-sectional area by fiber type, 4) speed of contraction and relaxation of the muscle, 5) force of contraction, and 6) myofiber morphologic integrity. the weight of the edl significantly increased. the overload caused no impairment of muscle contractility and did not have a significant effect on isometric twitch contraction time to peak tension or the time to one-half relaxation of the twitch. overloaded muscles demonstrated a transient shift in fiber type profile with preferential hypertrophy of type iia fibers that occurred in the early phase of overload while type iib fibers were recruited by 42 d. no significant increase in myofiber number in overloaded muscles occurred. some morphologic changes in over-loaded muscles parallel those found in patients with neurogenic muscular disorders. however, overloaded muscle did not exhibit a significant occurrence of fiber branching from controls in the midbelly region of the muscle.
is banding of the pulmonary trunk obsolete for infants with tricuspid atresia and double inlet ventricle with a discordant ventriculoarterial connection? role of aortic arch obstruction and subaortic stenosis banding the pulmonary trunk may exacerbate or promote the development of subaortic stenosis in patients with double inlet ventricle or tricuspid atresia with a dominant left ventricle and discordant ventriculoarterial connection and, therefore, may be an inappropriate palliative procedure for such patients. to examine this possibility, 102 consecutive infants were studied who presented with this anatomy between 1972 and 1987. obstruction of the aortic arch was present in 52 patients. in 28 patients (17 with aortic arch obstruction), subaortic stenosis was already apparent at presentation. of the remaining 74 patients, 19 received no palliative surgery and 55 underwent banding of the pulmonary trunk either with (n = 22) or without (n = 33) aortic arch repair. outcome was significantly worse in patients with associated aortic arch obstruction. all such patients either died or developed subaortic stenosis by 3 years of age (survival free of subaortic stenosis 0 of 22 versus 22 of 33 for patients with isolated banding of the pulmonary trunk, p less than 0.001). after isolated banding, there was a lower ratio of the ventricular septal defect to ascending aorta diameters at presentation in the patients who developed subaortic stenosis than in the patients who did not (0.60 +/- 0.08 versus 1.03 +/- 0.15, p less than 0.001). of the latter, 18 (95%) of 19 patients fulfilled criteria for a fontan procedure at recatheterization. thus, the presence of aortic arch obstruction is associated with rapid development of subaortic stenosis after banding of the pulmonary trunk. alternative initial surgery, even though high risk, may be indicated. in the absence of such obstruction, banding the pulmonary trunk can be performed at reasonable risk and, provided that the ventricular septal defect is of adequate size, satisfactorily prepares most patients for a later fontan procedure.
the management of flail chest injury: factors affecting outcome. the records of 57 patients presenting with flail chest injury from 1981 through 1987 were reviewed to determine factors affecting morbidity and mortality. fifteen patients (26%) had 8+ rib fractures with a unilateral flail and seven (12%) had multiple rib fractures with a bilateral flail. thirty-two (56%) had moderate-severe pulmonary contusions and 44 (77%) required chest tubes for hemo-pneumothorax. ventilatory assistance was used in 36 (63%). the major factors determining the need for ventilatory assistance were: an iss greater than or equal to 23, blood transfusions in the first 24 hours, moderate-severe associated injuries (fractures, head injuries or truncal organs requiring operation), and shock on admission (p less than 0.001). an adverse outcome occurred in 15 (28%); nine required ventilatory assistance greater than or equal to 14 days and six died of sepsis with pneumonia. the main factors associated with an adverse outcome were: an iss greater than or equal to 31 (p less than 0.001), moderate-severe associated injuries (p less than 0.001), and blood transfusions (p less than 0.005). although the primary determinants of an adverse outcome were the associated injuries and blood loss, a bilateral flail (p less than 0.01) and age greater than or equal to 50 years (p less than 0.02) were contributing factors.
rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body. rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common malignant orbital tumor of childhood. it has twice been reported to arise within the globe from the iris. in addition, teratoid medulloepithelioma, a tumor arising from the ciliary epithelium, can contain a rhabdomyoblastic component, often in combination with other heteroplastic elements. the authors report what may be the first recorded case of an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body, possibly representing a one-sided differentiation of a malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma.
correlation of common carotid flow volume measured by ultrasonic quantitative flowmeter with pathological findings. to evaluate the possibility of quantitatively diagnosing carotid and cerebral atherosclerosis noninvasively, we measured common carotid flow volume in 60 sides (30 patients), using an ultrasonic quantitative flowmeter, and then compared these findings to the severity score of carotid and cerebral atherosclerosis as determined at autopsy. stenosis decreased common carotid flow volume in the carotid and cerebral arteries. increases in the severity score varied inversely with reduced flow volume, which was high in inverse correlation (r = -0.696). patients with flow volumes of 8.5 ml/sec or greater did not have stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, whereas all patients with flow volumes of 6.4 ml/sec or less had stenosis greater than or equal to 50%, with 45% of these having stenosis greater than or equal to 75%. these pathological findings confirm that the common carotid flow volume reflects the degree of carotid and cerebral atherosclerosis present and that the lower limit of common carotid flow volume in healthy subjects is 6.5 ml/sec.
access to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. the american cancer society hearings on cancer and the poor made visible to the nation the harsh realities and consequences of lack of access to health care among the poor and uninsured in america. access to care is more than mere availability; it is also financial accessibility, effectiveness, acceptability, appropriateness, and comprehensiveness of care. the problems and consequences of lack of health care access and its impact on the cancer problem among poor americans are explored, and ways practitioners and public advocates can improve access are suggested. local communities have risen to action to make health care more accessible. successful programs have done their research to document access problems; then they have taken their findings to county governments to request additional funding and to health care institutions to request institutional policy and service changes to make health care more available and accessible.
changes in plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol and phospholipid in acute viral hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice. forty-four male and female subjects aged 22-57 years were studied. thirteen patients had acute viral hepatitis, and eleven patients had cholestatic jaundice due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. twenty healthy volunteers who served as controls were also included. in hepatitis patients, the mean plasma levels of total cholesterol (tc) and the high density lipoprotein (hdl)-phospholipid/phospholipid (hdlpl/pl) ratio were reduced, and hdl-cholesterol (hdlc), hdl-phospholipid (hdlpl) and the phospholipid/total cholesterol (pl/tc) ratio were normal, while total phospholipid (pl) levels and the hdlc/tc ratio were significantly increased compared to the control values. in patients with cholestatic jaundice the mean plasma total cholesterol, phospholipid and hdlc levels were elevated, and hdlpl/pl, hdlpl, hdlc/tc and pl/tc remained normal compared to the control values. a comparison within the patient groups showed that plasma tc, pl and hdlc levels were significantly increased in cholestatic jaundice when compared with the corresponding levels in hepatitis patients. the mean plasma levels of hdlpl, hdlc/tc and pl/tc did not show any significant variation within the patient groups. alkaline phosphatase (alp) correlated positively with tc, and total protein correlated negatively with tc and hdlpl, while albumin correlated negatively with tc, hdlc and hdlpl in cholestatic jaundice. alanine amino-transferase (alat) also correlated positively with pl in cholestatic jaundice, while albumin correlated positively with tc in hepatitis. the results suggest that lipoproteins might be metabolized differently in these two forms of cholestasis.
plasma neurotransmitters and cortisol in duodenal ulcer patients. role of stress. levels of noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, free serotonin, platelet serotonin, and cortisol were measured in the plasma of duodenal ulcer patients and controls. all subjects received antacids, and these substances were also measured. during relapse, all patients showed raised noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, free serotonin, and cortisol values. in contrast, platelet serotonin showed very low values, which correlated negatively with all the former, except free serotonin. no correlations were found in parameters of the controls. after healing, significant reductions of noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine, free serotonin, and cortisol and significant increases of platelet serotonin values were observed. however, only dopamine, free serotonin, and cortisol reached normal values. noradrenaline and adrenaline remained higher and platelet serotonin lower, both significantly more so than normals. these still-altered parameters showed similar correlations to those found during relapses. the present results demonstrate that some baseline autonomic system imbalance exists in patients, amplified and accentuated during relapse. we discuss the possibility that stress plays some role in triggering duodenal ulcer relapse.
the role of vascular endothelial cells in transplantation. the interface between an allograft and the recipient's immune system is the endothelium of the allograft vasculature. in this boundary position, endothelial cells may play important roles in the afferent and efferent phases of allograft rejection, in the response of the allograft to pretransplant perfusion and to drug therapy, and in the response to viral infection of the host. the expression by endothelial cells of granule membrane protein-140 (gmp-140) and endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (elam-1), increased tissue factor activity, increased secretion of plasminogen activator inhibitor, and decreased thrombomodulin may all contribute to hyperacute rejection. similarly, endothelial cells may actively participate in acute cellular rejection and in the development of transplant-associated arteriopathy as a result of induction of antigen-presenting function (ie, hla class ii expression), upregulation of adhesion molecules for lymphocytes and monocytes, and release of platelet-derived growth factors. endothelial cell functions, which are important for normal inflammatory responses and vessel behavior, may be pathogenic in the allograft.
severity of cystic fibrosis in patients homozygous and heterozygous for delta f508 mutation. to assess the relation between genotype and severity of disease in cystic fibrosis (cf) the frequencies and extent of several features of its phenotypic expression were investigated in the 235 patients who attend the danish cf centre. 14 patients who attend irregularly and 3 who do not carry the delta f508 mutation at all were excluded. the case-reports of the remaining 218 patients (aged 4 months to 41 years) were carefully evaluated, and they were all analysed for the delta f508 mutation. 172 (79%) were homozygous for delta f508 and 46 (20%) were heterozygous. the mutation therefore occurs on 89% of the chromosomes analysed. there were no significant differences between the homozygous and heterozygous groups in the proportions with meconium ileus at birth, liver involvement, or chronic pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. however, significantly more of the homozygous patients had onset of symptoms before the age of 6 months (p less than 0.025); they were significantly younger at diagnosis (p = 0.013) and centre referral (p = 0.006); they required greater pancreatic enzyme substitution (p = 0.0002) and had poorer lung function; and the calculated yearly incidence of chronic ps aeruginosa infection and yearly mortality rates were greater than in heterozygous patients (p = 0.0001).
inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (plasma cell granuloma). clinicopathologic study of 20 cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations. twenty cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (imt) were studied; 19 involved the lung and 1 the esophagus only. the patients' ages ranged from 3 to 72 years. there were 9 males and 11 females. involvement of a bronchus was seen in one case and of mediastinal structures in four. chest pain and dyspnea were common symptoms; eight patients were asymptomatic. seven patients underwent lobectomy, 12 local excision, and 1 biopsy alone. the lesions were nonencapsulated and ranged from 1.2 to 15 cm. various proportions of plasma cells, histiocytes, and spindle cells were observed; the latter corresponded ultrastructurally to fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, were immunoreactive for vimentin and actin and focally for desmin, and were negative for epithelial markers. plasma cells were polyclonal for light chains. one patient had two recurrences, and in one case a large pleural imt was found eight years after the excision of a similar lesion in the lung. all patients with follow-up (ten) were well as long as ten years after the diagnosis (average, 3.7 years).
spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b: patterns and natural history. we identified spontaneous reactivation of hepatitis b virus (hbv) retrospectively by utilizing serum alanine aminotransferase and hbv dna in 19 men (79% homosexual), with an estimated annual incidence of 7.3%. in 11 patients, spontaneous reactivation occurred as a single episode and in eight patients, reactivation was recurrent, with two to five episodes each. the mean serum alanine aminotransferase level was elevated over 10-fold at the peak of reactivation. serum anti-hbc igm was detected during 73% of the reactivation episodes. actuarial analysis revealed that reactivation was long lasting with 45% and nearly 20% of episodes continued after 6 and 24 months, respectively. the course of 24 chronic hbv carriers with a negative serum hbv dna test and normal alanine aminotransferase levels at initial appearance was unremarkable. we could not identify clinical features predictive of reactivation or its resolution. severe reactivation hepatitis occurred in three patients (10%), with two deaths (6%). none of the patients lost hbsag. spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b can appear variably, persist long term, recur, and be fatal. therefore, accurate classification of chronic hbv infection requires prolonged observation, and spontaneous reactivation should be considered a variable in therapeutic trials for chronic hepatitis b.
anti-kell in pregnancy. a review of data on haemolytic disease of the newborn (hdn) collected in newcastle upon tyne over 25 years revealed 194 pregnancies in which anti-kell was the only antibody detected. sixteen affected babies were born. none was hydropic, three had very severe disease but all survived. there were also three stillbirths, none of which had post-mortem appearances of hdn. the highest recorded anti-kell titres in individual patients ranged from 1/1 to 1/2048 and bore no relation to the severity of the disease. of the eight pregnancies in which amniotic fluid examination predicted a high risk of stillbirth, half resulted in unaffected babies. we suggest that haemolytic disease caused by anti-kell is less severe than suggested by some workers. the use of guidelines developed from the study of rhesus disease to determine the need for intervention in women with anti-kell may be inappropriate.
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain. congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies, effects of teratogens, errors of histogenesis, or sequelae of infections. the imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality. this review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants.
pancreaticopleural fistula. report of 7 patients and review of the literature. pancreaticopleural fistula is an uncommon clinical condition. its presentation is often confusing because of the paucity of clues suggestive of pancreatic disease and the preponderance of pulmonary symptoms and signs. most patients are alcoholics but only one-half will have a clinical history of previous pancreatitis. pleural effusions are large, recurrent, and highly exudative in nature. many patients go through extensive pulmonary evaluation before the pancreas is identified as the site of primary pathology. an elevated serum amylase may be the first clue to the diagnosis. however, the key to the diagnosis is a dramatically elevated pleural fluid amylase. effusions in association with acute pancreatitis, esophageal perforation, and thoracic malignancy are important to consider in the differential diagnosis of an elevated pleural fluid amylase but are usually easy to exclude. computed tomography is excellent in defining pancreatic abnormalities and should be the first abdominal imaging study in suspected cases. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) is used as a diagnostic tool only in confusing cases. although no systematic study evaluates medical versus surgical therapy, we recommend an initial 2 to 4-week trial of medical therapy, including allowance of no oral intake, total parenteral nutrition, chest tube thoracostomy, and possibly a regimen of somatostatin or its analogs. the major complication in these patients is superinfection, which results in significant morbidity and mortality. failure of medical therapy should be considered failure of pleural effusion(s) to clear, recurrence after reinstatement of oral intake, or superinfection. for those patients who fail to benefit from medical therapy, surgery is indicated.
regional diastolic mechanics of ischemic and nonischemic myocardium in the pig heart. to assess the role of segmental dyssynchrony as a determinant of ischemic diastolic dysfunction, systolic and diastolic mechanics of ischemic and nonischemic myocardium were compared in the open chest pig heart (n = 7). pacing tachycardia (1.8 x heart rate at rest) was imposed for 3 to 5 min in the presence of a single critical stenosis of the left anterior descending artery (demand ischemia, n = 7). after 30 min of recovery, the left anterior descending artery was totally occluded for 1.5 min in the same pigs (primary ischemia, n = 6). both demand and primary ischemia increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and prolonged the time constant of left ventricular pressure decline. percent systolic shortening of ischemic segments (perfused by the left anterior descending artery) decreased by 32% during demand ischemia and by 120% during primary ischemia, but that of nonischemic segments (perfused by the left circumflex artery) did not change significantly during either type of ischemia. during demand ischemia (but not during primary ischemia), left ventricular diastolic pressure increased relative to segment length so that a higher diastolic pressure was needed to stretch the ischemic segment to the same length (decreased distensibility). in nonischemic areas, diastolic pressure and segment length increased commensurately during both types of ischemia, indicating no change in diastolic distensibility. during demand ischemia, peak early diastolic lengthening rates increased in nonischemic segments but remained unchanged in ischemic segments. diastolic segmental dyssynchrony developed during both types of ischemia, but was more pronounced during primary ischemia. therefore, segmental dyssynchrony is unlikely to account for the rise in diastolic pressure relative to segment length seen during demand ischemia.
peritoneal mesothelioma: an unusual cause of esophageal achalasia. secondary esophageal achalasia due to malignancy is a rare condition; only 53 such cases have been reported to date. sixty-two percent of the cases were due to gastric adenocarcinoma. mesothelioma of the peritoneum is an uncommon neoplasm. the usual presenting symptoms are abdominal pain, abdominal mass, or abdominal distention. the patient we are reporting had peritoneal mesothelioma which presented with dysphagia and weight loss, in addition to the radiological and manometric picture of achalasia. secondary achalasia was suspected clinically, and was confirmed by computed tomography and laparotomy. the diagnosis of peritoneal mesothelioma was made only by histopathological examination. we are not aware of any other report documenting the association of peritoneal mesothelioma and achalasia.
catheter-based intravascular ultrasound imaging of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary disease. pulmonary thromboendarterectomy is now the treatment of choice for pulmonary hypertension due to chronic pulmonary thromboemboli. a precise assessment of location and extension of these thrombi is important because only proximal chronic pulmonary thromboemboli are accessible to surgery. because intravascular ultrasound imaging can assess not only arterial luminal size, but also wall thickness, its value as a complement to angiography was assessed in 11 patients aged 35 to 64 years with severe pulmonary hypertension (systolic pulmonary artery pressure, mean +/- standard deviation 70 +/- 19 mm hg; pulmonary artery resistance, 609 +/- 297 dynes.s.cm-5). intravascular ultrasound was obtained in 10 of 11 patients and no complication occurred. intravascular ultrasound identified 10 segments with suspected chronic pulmonary thromboemboli in 7 patients, all confirmed at operation. nine segments were considered normal, all of which (except 1) were free of chronic pulmonary thromboemboli at operation. image quality was highly dependent on pulmonary artery size and position of the catheter. therefore, intravascular ultrasound of pulmonary arteries is feasible and safe in patients with pulmonary hypertension. it may help to assess the location and extension of the pathologic process involving pulmonary arteries.
carotid endarterectomy for chronic retinal ischemia. carotid arterial disease may result in a variety of ischemic ocular problems that can eventually lead to permanent blindness. from 1984 to 1988, 18 patients underwent reconstruction of the carotid artery in an attempt to restore normal retinal arterial flow and, thereby, reverse or prevent progression of ischemic oculopathy. during a mean period of 21 months after carotid arterial reconstruction, subjective improvement in vision as well as a resolution in eye and periorbital pain was reported in 87.5 per cent of the patients. measured visual acuity improved or stabilized in 94.4 per cent; macular photostress recovery times improved in 87.5 per cent, funduscopic examinations noted improvement or resolution in ischemic signs in 93.3 per cent and intraocular pressures improved in two of three patients. one patient experienced recurrent episodes of amaurosis fugax, which resolved after two weeks and did not recur. a second patient experienced an increase in intraocular pressures with visual deterioration, required laser photocoagulation after which the condition of the patient stabilized but only after significant visual impairment. carotid arterial reconstruction is effective for the treatment of ischemic oculopathy and is most beneficial if performed early, before the onset of irreversible neovascular glaucoma.
hyperthecosis of the ovaries in a woman with a placental site trophoblastic tumor. rapidly increasing testosterone levels were observed in a patient presenting with sudden onset of virilization. exploratory laparotomy revealed a placental site trophoblastic tumor in the uterus. wedge biopsies of the ovaries showed extensive luteinization of the ovarian stroma in both ovaries. concentrations of testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and androstenedione were markedly increased in the ovarian vein serum, indicating ovaries as the source of these steroids. the serum concentration of hcg was 69 miu/ml. pulsatile secretion of lh persisted in spite of elevated hcg levels. follicle-stimulating hormone levels were low or undetectable. elevated hcg levels and low fsh levels resulted in a hormonal environment similar to that seen in polycystic ovary disease (high lh to fsh ratio), resulting in extensive stromal luteinization. decline in hcg levels after removal of the tumor resulted in the return of androgen levels to normal.
early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy. the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (siadh) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy. it has previously only been described as a late phenomenon. we report an early presentation within the first week. the pathophysiology, clinical features and treatment are discussed.
the los angeles experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. surgeons should be competent in diagnostic laparoscopy before performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc). well-structured and endorsed courses with experienced faculty are important. within 12 months, 418 lcs were performed in our hospital. the number of open cholecystectomies decreased to one third of all cholecystectomies performed. cholangiography was attempted routinely and the duct was successfully cannulated in 90%. inquiries were made at 6 other hospitals within a 5-mile radius where a total of 220 lcs were performed. the following gray areas need to be addressed: patients with slightly increased liver function tests but no jaundice, and unsuspected stones discovered by cholangiography. new projects are in progress to explore the common bile duct via the cystic duct or directly through the common bile duct with insertion of a t tube. the authors recommend proper training as well as caution and sound judgment before commencing with lc.
toxicities in rats with free versus liposomal encapsulated cisplatin. wistar rats (five in each group) were given either 1 mg/kg of free cisplatin, 1 or 2 mg/kg of liposomal encapsulated cisplatin, or saline solution intraperitoneally biweekly for 15 injections. rats in the free drug group showed significantly less weight gain; two rats died during the study. at necropsy, the free cisplatin--treated rats showed gross and microscopic evidence of peritoneal fibrosis that was not detected in any of the remaining groups. the free cisplatin--treated rats showed serum and histologic evidence of renal damage; all five rats had moderate or severe acute tubular necrosis. no renal abnormalities were detected in rats that received 1 mg/kg, and only focal or mild changes were found in rats that received 2 mg/kg of the liposomal preparation. neurotoxicity, as determined by nerve conduction and inclined plane studies, developed in rats treated with free and liposomal cisplatin. these results are encouraging and warrant further investigation.
kawasaki-like syndrome after treatment with mesalazine. we report a patient who developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction, including rash, lymph node enlargement, fever, hepatitis, and eosinophilia, after sulphasalazine therapy. five years later, he developed a similar reaction after exposure to mesalazine, the salicylic compound of sulphasalazine. we conclude that patients with known severe systemic reaction to sulphasalazine therapy are also at risk for such a reaction when treated with a 5-asa preparation.
scintigraphic assessment of leukocyte infiltration in acute pancreatitis using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine as leukocyte label. the infiltration of leukocytes has been linked to the pathophysiology of complicated or severe pancreatitis. we have tested the ability of leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine (hm-pao) as label to demonstrate the localization of leukocytes in the pancreas during acute pancreatitis. twenty-eight patients with acute pancreatitis (eight with biliary, 13 with alcoholic, and seven with unknown origin) were studied with leukocyte scintigraphy using planar imaging and single photon emission computed tomography (spect). fourteen patients had a mild (group i), ii a severe (group ii), and three a lethal outcome (group iii) of pancreatitis. all patients of group iii, six of group ii, and two of group i had a positive leukocyte scan. thus, the sensitivity of leukocyte scintigraphy for the detection of a lethal course of acute pancreatitis was 100%, of a severe course 54%, and of a severe or lethal course 64%. the specificity of a negative scan for a mild pancreatitis was 86%. comparison of the results of leukocyte scintigraphy with those of contrast enhanced ct showed that six of eight patients with pancreatic necrosis in ct had a positive leukocyte scan, but only five of 20 patients without detectable pancreatic necrosis in ct. in summary, leukocyte infiltration into the pancreas during pancreatitis can be demonstrated by noninvasive leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hm-pao as label. a correlation between the severity of the disease and leukocyte infiltration exists.
bone marrow necrosis in leukemic-phase follicular lymphoma. bone marrow necrosis has been regarded as a rare entity in specimens obtained from living patients and has been associated with a poor prognosis. it is most commonly found in patients with neoplastic disorders, severe infections, and sickle cell anemia. we present an unusual case of a small-cleaved type follicular lymphoma associated with bone marrow necrosis and a leukemic phase occurring in a 55-year-old woman. specimens were studied by morphologic, immunohistochemical, cytogenetic, and dna hybridization techniques.
aortocaval and iliac arteriovenous fistulas: recognition and treatment. despite the well characterized physiologic effects of aortocaval or iliac arteriovenous fistulas, patients with such uncommon lesions may manifest a diverse array of symptoms, and diagnosis is often delayed or overlooked. to examine clinical features that facilitate recognition and allow successful repair, a 30-year experience with 20 such fistulas was reviewed. fourteen fistulas were caused by aneurysm erosion, four followed iatrogenic injury during lumbar disk surgery, and two developed from abdominal gunshot wounds. the interval from presumed occurrence to diagnosis ranged from 3 hours to 8 years. the diagnosis was not recognized before surgery in five (25%) patients. back pain (70%) was the most common symptom. the presence of a typical abdominal bruit (80%) was the most reliable physical finding, but its significance was occasionally overlooked or misinterpreted. congestive heart failure was prominent in only seven (35%) patients. severe lower extremity edema and mottling was the primary manifestation in eight cases, often causing initial confusion with venous thrombosis. hematuria (5 patients) and oliguric renal failure (4 patients), both fully reversible after fistula repair, also caused diagnostic uncertainty. the mean preoperative cardiac output was 12.2 l/min, falling to 5.4 l/min with fistula repair. mean blood loss was 5960 ml, supporting use of intraoperative autotransfusion. two operative deaths (10%) occurred, both in patients not correctly diagnosed before surgery. despite varied modes of presentation, prompt recognition and use of appropriate operative techniques should achieve successful repair.
retrograde transurethral balloon dilation of prostate: innovative management of abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia. retrograde transurethral balloon dilatation (rtbd) of the prostate recently has been suggested as alternative therapy for patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). seven patients with documented functional urinary outlet obstruction at the level of the bladder neck or prostatic urethra underwent rtbd of prostate. each patient had a classic diagnosis of abacterial chronic prostatitis or prostatodynia based on history, physical examination, and localization cultures. prior to rtbd of prostate, patients underwent cystoscopy, voiding cystourethrogram, urodynamic and uroflow studies. rtbd of prostate was done as an outpatient procedure requiring intravenous sedation or general anesthesia. dilation was performed with a 25-mm urethroplasty balloon catheter inflated at 3.5 atm of pressure for twenty minutes. improvement in voiding symptomatology was noted in all patients and graded numerically (0-10 scale), with ten indicating normal voiding. follow-up to date ranges from one to five months. this technique may have promise as a treatment option in patients with abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia.
hepatic vascular disease and portal hypertension in polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia: a clinicopathological study of 145 patients examined at autopsy. the pathogenesis of portal hypertension arising in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been difficult to understand because liver biopsy findings often show minimal changes. it has been suggested that increased splenic blood flow, hepatic infiltration with hematopoietic cells or sinusoidal fibrosis may be important. we have reviewed the autopsy findings and clinical histories of 97 patients with polycythemia vera and 48 patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia collected from three institutions and from the polycythemia vera study group. cirrhosis was present in seven patients, one of whom had bleeding varices. esophageal varices were present clinically in 10 patients without cirrhosis (seven polycythemia and three agnogenic myeloid metaplasia). all of these patients had lesions in small or medium-sized portal veins and four had stenosis of the extrahepatic portal vein with histology compatible with organized thrombi. nodular regenerative hyperplasia occurred in 14.6% and correlated closely with the presence of portal vein lesions. thirty patients had greater than 500 ml of ascites, seven of these patients also had varices and six of them had hepatic vein thrombosis. ascites also correlated with hepatic vein disease confined to small intrahepatic branches. no correlation was seen between hepatic hematopoietic infiltration and signs of portal hypertension. we conclude that esophageal varices are common and are almost always associated with portal vein lesions visible by light microscopy. these portal vein lesions, and the secondary effects of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and portal hypertension, are most likely a result of portal vein thrombosis in patients with myeloproliferative disorders.
differential regulation of liver p-450iii cytochromes in choline-deficient rats: implications for the erythromycin breath test as a parameter of liver function. progressive liver fibrosis in rats develops when they are fed a diet deficient in choline. this diet also results in a pronounced and selective decrease in the liver microsomal content of a phase i drug-metabolizing enzyme belonging to the cytochrome p-450iii gene family. because p-450iii cytochromes characteristically catalyze the n-demethylation of erythromycin, we believed that the production of breath co2 from erythromycin would be dramatically reduced in choline-deficient rats. however, when 12 choline-deficient rats were compared with 9 control rats, the reduction in co2 production from erythromycin (mean decrease 71%) was essentially identical to that from aminopyrine (mean decrease 69%), a substrate believed to be metabolized normally by the hepatocyte in fibrotic liver disease. furthermore, we found that the relative erythromycin and aminopyrine demethylase activities were comparable when measured in vitro in liver microsomes prepared from the choline-deficient rats. to determine the molecular basis for the erythromycin demethylase activity in the choline-deficient rats, the liver microsomes were subjected to immunoblot analysis using a variety of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies capable of distinguishing individual p-450iii-related proteins. our studies confirm that a major erythromycin demethylase belonging to the p-450iii family, termed p-450p, was greatly reduced in the choline-deficient rat liver. however, the specific concentration of a second p-450p-related protein was essentially normal and that of a third p-450p-related protein was actually increased in the choline-deficient rat liver.
hepatitis b virus nucleocapsid/pre-s2 fusion proteins expressed in attenuated salmonella for oral vaccination. hybrid hbv nucleocapsid-pre-s(2) fusion proteins were stably expressed in several aromatic-dependent attenuated salmonella typhimurium and salmonella dublin strains. when these live recombinant bacteria were administered i.p. to balb/c mice they induced high titer anti-hepatitis b virus core ag (hbc) and detectable anti-pre-s2 serum antibodies. upon oral feeding of the recombinant salmonellae to mice, the rate of seroconversion to anti-hbc was dependent on the salmonella strain used. with the best carrier strain high titer anti-hbc antibodies and lower titer anti-pre-s2 serum igg antibodies were observed two weeks after a single oral immunization. the ig class and igg subclass distribution of anti-hbc antibodies after i.p. and oral immunization is consistent with the induction of functional t cell help.
lower respiratory tract infections. although lower respiratory tract infections are frequently diagnosed in a primary care setting, they are still associated with a significant morbidity and mortality, which warrants a careful approach to treatment. knowledge of the most common cause based on the age of the patient, location where the infection was acquired, and clinical presentation helps to direct empiric treatment. a few basic laboratory studies, especially a sputum gram stain, can allow for more specific treatment. identification of patients at increased risk for virulent organisms should make the primary care physician consider inpatient treatment along with an aggressive diagnostic workup and broad-spectrum antimicrobial treatment. prevention should always be considered.
parotid gland and facial nerve trauma: a retrospective review. included in this study are all patients with trauma to the parotid region seen at our center from 1979 to 1989. there was a total of five patients with injury to the parotid area: two patients with isolated facial nerve injury; one with isolated parotid duct injury; two with combined duct and nerve injury. there were four males and one female, with a mean age of 34 years (range, 16 to 62 years). the three patients with parotid duct injury required other procedures for associated trauma. a total of eight nerve branches were severed in four patients. seven of the eight nerve branches (82.5%) were primarily repaired, with excellent functional results. two of the three ductal injuries were repaired primarily over a stent, and one was ligated. no complications resulted from either treatment. based on our clinical experience and review of the literature, we suggest that the treatment of parotid region injuries should include: 1) a complete initial assessment; 2) primary repair of parotid duct transection within 24 hours when possible; 3) primary repair of all facial nerve injuries, although delayed nerve repair remains a viable alternative; and 4) nonsurgical treatment of sialoceles and fistulae.
nmda antagonists potentiate antiparkinsonian actions of l-dopa in monoamine-depleted rats. systemically administered n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) antagonists, mk-801 ((+)5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5h-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate) and cpp (3-[(+-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate), potentiate the ability of l-dopa (l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) to reverse akinesia and to alleviate muscular rigidity in monoamine-depleted rats. on the basis of these findings, it is proposed that nmda antagonists may be beneficial as adjunctive treatment in the therapy of parkinson's disease. cpp locally injected into the subthalamic nucleus, entopeduncular nucleus--the rat homologue of the internal pallidal segment--or substantia nigra pars reticulata of monoamine-depleted rats stimulates locomotor activity and alleviates rigidity, whereas local microinjection of cpp into the neostriatum is ineffective. these results make it unlikely that the neostriatum is the site of the antiparkinsonian action of nmda antagonists in monoamine-depleted rats, whereas the subthalamic nucleus, internal pallidal segment, and substantia nigra pars reticulata appear to be important for the effects of nmda antagonists.
prevalence and prognostic significance of exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias after coronary artery bypass grafting. exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias occur often after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg), but their prognostic significance is unknown. two hundred patients examined by exercise electrocardiography and cardiac catheterization (including left ventriculography, bypass graft and native coronary artery angiography) before and 3 months after cabg were prospectively followed up. exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias occurred more often after (49 of 200 patients, 24.5%) than before (32 of 200 patients, 16.0%) cabg (p less than 0.05). there were no differences between the patients with and without ventricular arrhythmias in the prevalence of graft patency (79 vs 80%) or the postoperative ejection fraction (57 +/- 9 vs 57 +/- 12%). ten cardiac deaths occurred during the mean follow-up time of 61 +/- 19 months, 8 of which were witnessed sudden cardiac deaths. all cardiac deaths occurred in patients who did not have exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias after cabg. the postoperative ejection fraction was lower in the cardiac death patients (42 +/- 16%) than in the survivors (58 +/- 10%) (p less than 0.01). no other clinical or angiographic variable predicted the occurrence of cardiac death. thus, the prevalence of exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias increases after cabg, but the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias does not indicate an increased risk of cardiac death.
synchronous positive and negative myoclonus due to pontine hemorrhage. we report a case of synchronous positive and negative myoclonus following pontine hemorrhage. constant synchronous jerking of the eyes, tongue, face, mandible, larynx, pharynx, and diaphragms persisted during sleep. jerking of limb muscles occurred during volitional activities, but not at rest. inability to sustain glottic adduction during phonation contributed to severe dysarthria. electromyography (emg) revealed positive myoclonus of the branchial musculature with synchronous negative myoclonus in a generalized distribution. treatment with trazodone reduced the ocular myoclonus but worsened the dysphagia. we suggest that a single neural rhythm generator may produce both positive and negative myoclonus.
dual association of hla dr2 and dr3 with primary sclerosing cholangitis. human leukocyte antigen typing was performed in 81 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis to investigate reported associations between human leukocyte antigen type and this disease. the results showed a significant increase in the frequency of the antigens b8 and dr3 compared with controls (53% vs. 23%, p less than 0.0005, and 56% vs. 21%, p less than 0.0005). this was caused by a significant rise in the frequency of the human leukocyte antigen a1 b8 dr3 haplotype (32 of 81 patients, 40% vs. 12 of 100 patients, 12%, p less than 0.0005). by contrast, a significant reduction was seen in the frequency of the antigens b44 and dr4 (12% vs. 31%, p less than 0.005, and 12% vs. 34%, p less than 0.001, pc less than 0.011) because of the complete absence of the b44 dr4 haplotype in the patient group (p = 0.027, fisher's exact test). when all the dr3-positive individuals (including the dr2/dr3 heterozygotes) were eliminated, a significant secondary association with dr2 was noted, 25 (69%) of 36 remaining patients being dr2-positive compared with 27 (34%) of 79 dr3 negative controls (p less than 0.0005, pc less than 0.006). only 9% of the patients were dr2-positive and dr3-positive. kaplan-meier analysis demonstrated that survival was not influenced by the presence of either haplotype nor by the individual antigens. patients who were dr3-positive were first seen at a significantly younger age than those who were dr2-positive (mean ages = 33 yr and 44 yr, respectively, p less than 0.002, student's t test).
the concept of migraine as a state of central neuronal hyperexcitability. this article explores the hypothesis that migraine with aura is associated with a state of central neuronal hyperexcitability. the authors propose that this central neuronal hyperexcitability involves overactivity of the excitatory amino acids, glutamate, and possibly aspartate. stimuli that activate the migraine attack evoke neuronal depolarization, slow depolarization shifts, and spreading suppression of spontaneous neuronal activity possible by glutamate and k+ dependent mechanisms. a low brain mg2+ and consequent reduced gating of glutamatergic receptors may provide the link between the physiologic threshold for a migraine attack and the mechanisms of the attack itself by promoting glutamate hyperactivity, neuronal hyperexcitability, and susceptibility to glutamate-dependent spreading depression.
role of granulocyte elastase in tissue injury in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure. to better understand the role of granulocyte elastase (ge) in mediating tissue injury during sepsis, ge levels were measured in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (balf) in patients with septic shock (n = 16) and hemorrhagic shock (n = 30). granulocyte elastase levels were compared to levels of alpha 1-protease inhibitor (alpha 1-pi). results show that although plasma ge-alpha 1-pi complex was initially elevated in patients with hemorrhagic and septic shock, elevations in plasma ge-alpha 1-pi complex (831 +/- 241 micrograms/l) persisted in septic shock patients. alpha 1-protease inhibitor levels in serum were increased, resulting in an inhibition of serum ge activity. granulocyte elastase activity in balf, however, was significantly higher in those patients with septic, as compared to hemorrhagic shock (31.4 +/- 25.8 versus 3.7 +/- 4.0 u/l, respectively). in addition ge levels were compared to other parameters, including respiratory index, blood neutrophil count, and plasma levels of endotoxin, fibronectin, and coagulation factor xiii. significant correlations were observed between ge-alpha 1-pi and increased endotoxin concentration and decreased fibronectin and coagulation factor xiii levels. significant correlation was found also between ge activity in balf and respiratory index. these findings suggest that severe tissue damage occurred in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure. although ge activity appeared to be adequately inhibited by alpha 1-pi in blood, increased ge activity in local tissues, such as lung alveoli, may be responsible for significant local tissue injury during septic shock.
effect of left ventricular aneurysm on risk of sudden and nonsudden cardiac death. although left ventricular (lv) aneurysm is associated with increased mortality, its independent prognostic significance is controversial. to determine the effect of lv aneurysm on risk, 121 patients with healed myocardial infarction (mi), 55 manifesting akinesia on ventriculography (mi group) and 66 with lv aneurysm characterized by diastolic deformity (eccentricity) and systolic dyskinesia (lv aneurysm group) were studied. at a mean follow-up of 5.7 years, there were 32 cardiac deaths (12 mi vs 20 lv aneurysm), including 9 sudden deaths (1 mi vs 8 lv aneurysm). multivariate analysis revealed decreasing ejection fraction to be the best predictor of total cardiac death, and revascularization to be protective. nonsudden cardiac death was predicted by ejection fraction, absence of revascularization and right coronary artery disease, whereas sudden cardiac death was predicted by lv aneurysm and the frequency of ventricular ectopic complexes on holter monitoring. in the mi group, ejection fraction was the only significant predictor of total cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death. in the lv aneurysm group, total cardiac death, as well as nonsudden cardiac death, were predicted by ejection fraction, ventricular tachycardia and right coronary artery disease, whereas ventricular tachycardia predicted sudden cardiac death. it is concluded that the risk profile for total cardiac death differs between lv aneurysm and mi patients, and that lv aneurysm constitutes an independent predictor of late sudden cardiac death after mi. moreover, on a substrate of lv aneurysm, the risk factors for sudden cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death differ, with ventricular tachycardia being the sole predictor of sudden cardiac death. furthermore, holter monitoring is valuable in identifying patients at persistent risk of sudden cardiac death.
events following implantation of an intraluminal ringed prosthesis in the ascending, transverse, and descending thoracic aorta. from march 1978 through july 1985, 23 patients underwent implantation of 24 intraluminal ringed prostheses (irp). there were 18 men and 5 women, with a mean age of 54.7 years, range 15-74 years. eleven irp were placed in the ascending aorta, two in the transverse arch, and 11 in the descending aorta. pathology included acute aortic dissection in four patients, chronic dissection in four, and aortic aneurysm in 16. there were eight hospital deaths (35%). causes of death included acute cardiac failure in seven patients, and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in one. irp complications requiring revision included right coronary artery occlusion in three of 11 patients (27%) with an irp in the ascending aorta. graft revision was also required in three of 11 irp implanted in the descending aorta (27%), due to graft occlusion in one and graft stenosis in two. of the six patients with irp complications, there were three hospital deaths (50%). all 15 hospital survivors were followed for a mean of 68.5 months, range 5-112 months. there were four late deaths (26.7%). causes of late death included hemoptysis in one, cardiomyopathy in one, and aortic redissection and rupture in two. we conclude that patients undergoing repair of aortic pathology with irp have an important risk of early phase events, as technical problems can occur due to malposition and slippage of the securing rings.
portacaval shunt versus endoscopic sclerotherapy in the elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. eighty-two consecutive child-campbell class a and b cirrhotic patients were included in a prospective controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of portacaval anastomosis vs. endoscopic sclerotherapy as elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. forty-one patients were randomized to portacaval anastomosis and 41 to sclerotherapy. after excluding dropouts, 34 patients were treated with portacaval anastomosis and 35 with sclerotherapy. the incidence of variceal rebleeding during follow-up (mean +/- sd, 20.6 +/- 14.2 months) was significantly higher in the sclerotherapy than in the portacaval groups, either considering the overall treated group or only patients completing sclerotherapy (40% and 25% vs. 2.9%; p = 0.0002 and p = 0.01, respectively). the 2-year probability of suffering from at least one episode of hepatic encephalopathy was significantly higher in patients submitted to portacaval anastomosis than in those treated with endoscopic sclerotherapy (40% vs. 12%; p = 0.04). however, disabling encephalopathy only appeared in 3 of 34 patients who underwent surgery (8.8%). early and long-term mortality did not differ between the therapeutic groups; 2-year survival rates were 83% for portacaval anastomosis and 79% for sclerotherapy. it is concluded that portacaval anastomosis is more effective than endoscopic sclerotherapy in preventing variceal rebleeding in spite of the greater incidence of hepatic encephalopathy. the role of portacaval anastomosis in the elective treatment of variceal rebleeding should be reassessed.
low-dose heparin. a cause of hematoma of rectus abdominis. although hematomas of the rectus abdominis muscle are commonly reported complications of systemic anticoagulation treatment, they are a rare complication of prophylactic administration of low-dose heparin. the occurrence of a massive hematoma of the rectus sheath is reported in a woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute respiratory failure who was receiving low doses of heparin for the prevention of deep venous thrombosis. three other cases of hematoma of the rectus sheath resulting from prophylactic use of heparin are reviewed. the development of hematoma in these patients may have resulted from intramuscular abdominal injection of heparin and from strain of the rectus abdominis muscle caused by coughing. when prophylactic administration of heparin is necessary in patients with a tendency to paroxysmal cough, subcutaneous injections of heparin in the thigh may be preferable to subcutaneous injections in the abdomen.
diversity of outer membrane protein profiles of nontypable haemophilus influenzae from children from papua new guinea and the philippines. we determined capsular serotypes and, with use of sds-page, patterns of outer membrane proteins (omp) of haemophilus influenzae isolates from specimens of blood, lung, or csf from children with acute respiratory tract infections or meningitis who were hospitalized in papua new guinea or the philippines. among 72 isolates from papua new guinea, 72% were type b, 14% were other encapsulated serotypes, and 14% were nontypable. the respective frequencies among 43 isolates from the philippines were 56%, 7%, and 37%. the type b isolates could be subdivided into at least eight outer membrane subtypes, most of which have been described previously. in contrast, omp profiles of the nontypable h. influenzae isolates from children in both countries were highly heterogeneous. these results differ markedly from those previously found for isolates from children with acute respiratory tract infections in pakistan, for which encapsulated h. influenzae strains other than serotype b were not observed; 95% of type b isolates were of a single omp subtype; and nontypable isolates showed evidence of clonal restriction. candidate vaccines for use in developing countries as protection against disease caused by h. influenzae will need to include both capsular and noncapsular antigens and investigators must take into consideration regional differences among strains.
orofacial metastasis of pulmonary giant cell carcinoma. a patient was admitted to the hospital with multiple skin nodules of recent origin and signs and symptoms suggestive of acute pulmonary infection. because one of the skin masses was located overlying the left mandibular body region, the patient was referred to the hospital dentistry clinic for evaluation. historical, clinical, and radiographic assessments were consistent with reactive lymphadenopathy, and an intraoral excisional biopsy was performed. the biopsy results were indicative of giant cell carcinoma, which was confirmed by biopsy results from a similar skin lesion on the shoulder and by malignant cells recovered in the sputum and pleural fluids. although this carcinoma has been shown to rarely metastasize to the skin and lymphatics of the neck, this is the first case report of metastasis to facial lymphatics.
prostacyclin but not phentolamine increases oxygen consumption and skin microvascular blood flow in patients with sepsis and respiratory failure. inadequate tissue oxygenation may occur in critically ill patients with sepsis despite an apparently adequate o2 transport (qo2), and this may contribute to the development of an o2 debt and also to multiple organ failure. it has been shown that increasing qo2 by infusing a vasodilator may reveal this o2 debt in septic patients. to investigate whether the site of action of vasodilators may be of importance in unmasking such an o2 debt, we administered prostacyclin, a prostaglandin with a preferential effect on the microcirculation, and phentolamine, an arteriolar vasodilator, in 11 patients studied during the first 48 hours after the onset of sepsis, and compared their effect on whole body oxygen consumption (vo2) and skin microvascular blood flow. the results demonstrated that increasing qo2 by prostacyclin but not by phentolamine significantly increases vo2 in critically ill patients with sepsis. the site of action of vasodilators may therefore play an important role in their ability to unmask an o2 debt.
development of multiple necrotizing enteritis induced by a tumor necrosis factor-like cytokine from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated peritoneal macrophages in rats. we report the development of an animal model of multiple necrotizing enteritis (mne) in rats. when rats were injected directly with a culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide (lps)-stimulated rat peritoneal macrophages into the abdominal aorta, the overt pathologic lesions of mne developed within 30 minutes after injection. the rats showed an elevated level of blood fibrinogen degradation product content even 30 minutes after injection. furthermore the rats that were pretreated intravenously with heparin sulfate did not develop mne, indicating the acute disturbances of blood microcirculation in the intestine. multiple necrotizing enteritis was developed also by the injection with recombinant tumor necrosis factor (rtnf) but rarely was observed with even a high dose of recombinant interleukin-1 (ril-1) or platelet-activating factor (paf). the supernatant was cytotoxic in vitro to tnf-susceptible lm and many other cells but was less cytotoxic to the tnf-resistant lr line. partial purification of the supernatant suggested that the supernatant contained a cytokine that has biochemical features of tnf. furthermore polyclonal anti-tnf antibody could inhibit not only the cytotoxicity in vitro but also mne development in vivo by this factor. these data strongly indicate that mne possibly could be caused by a tnf-like cytokine produced by macrophages that are stimulated by the endotoxin.
mycobacterium chelonei keratopathy with visual rehabilitation by a triple procedure. we report a chronic keratouveitis following an eye injury, the etiology of which remained obscure despite repeated corneal scrapings and cultures. eventually, the diagnosis was established by culturing mycobacterium chelonei from a corneal biopsy specimen. topical amikacin resolved active inflammation, but dense corneal scarring and a cataract remained. visual rehabilitation was achieved through a combined penetrating keratoplasty, extracapsular cataract extraction, and intraocular lens implantation. this case illustrates that there should be a high index of suspicion of atypical mycobacteria when faced with any unusual keratitis, particularly following penetrating injuries and corneal grafts.
fetal and maternal response to intravenous infusion of a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor. pharmacologic inhibition of thromboxane synthetase activity has reversed the clinical manifestations of toxemia in the ovine model. to investigate placental transfer and fetal effects of a selective thromboxane synthetase inhibitor, cgs13080 (ciba-geigy, summit, n.j.) was intravenously infused into eight singleton- or twin-bearing ewes near term. during cgs 13080 infusion (0.1 mg/kg/hr), maternal steady-state cgs 13080 levels of 102 +/- 18 ng/ml were achieved within 30 minutes and maternal serum thromboxane generation decreased significantly (13 +/- 3 to 4 +/- 1 ng/ml). however, fetal serum levels of cgs 13080 were only 4% of peak maternal concentrations and fetal serum thromboxane generation did not change. there was no evidence of change in uterine blood flow, maternal or fetal blood pressure, heart rate, blood gas values, or fetal or maternal metabolites of prostacyclin or prostaglandin e2 during the study. we speculate that cgs 13080 may be efficacious in the treatment of human pregnancy-induced hypertension.
emergency cardiopulmonary bypass support in patients with cardiac arrest. emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was instituted in 11 patients in cardiac arrest refractory to conventional resuscitation measures. emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was used in five patients in whom cardiac arrest occurred as a result of a complication in the cardiac catheterization laboratory (group 1) and in six other patients in cardiac arrest (group ii). a 21f cannula and a 17f cannula were percutaneously inserted into the femoral vein and artery. flow rates of 3 to 5 l/min were achieved with restoration of mean arterial pressure to 70 mm hg (range 50 to 75). the status of all 11 patients was improved initially both clinically and hemodynamically with percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass. of the group ii patients, three had anatomy unsuitable for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass grafting, could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary support, and died; three of these patients had coronary artery bypass grafting and two survived. all five group i patients underwent successful coronary bypass grafting and survived. of the seven patients with anatomically correctable disease, all seven were discharged from the hospital. with conventional management nearly all seven of these patients would have died. nine of 11 patients underwent a cardiac operation and seven of the nine survived. the operative mortality rate was 22% and the overall survival rate was 64%. at follow-up (mean 7 months), all seven patients are alive and six have resumed a normal and active life-style. in conclusion, emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support is a powerful resuscitative tool that may stabilize the condition of patients in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest to allow for definitive intervention.
neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. a case of absence of somatostatin in a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, bombesin-, and cholecystokinin-producing tumor. a 31-year-old patient with a clinical picture of obstructive jaundice had surgical treatment, and a primary carcinoid of the ampulla of vater (va) was found. the tumor was studied with light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. the neoplasm had histopathologic and cytopathologic features similar to those encountered in typical neuroendocrine neoplasms. it is interesting that immunohistochemical techniques disclosed the presence of vasointestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin, and bombesin; however, unlike most neuroendocrine neoplasms arising in va, no somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were found.
acute sensorineural deafness in lassa fever a prospective audiometric evaluation of 69 hospitalized febrile patients in sierra leone, west africa, revealed a sensorineural hearing deficit (snhd) in 14 (29%) of 49 confirmed cases of lassa fever and in 0 of 20 febrile controls. an snhd was present in nine (17.6%) of 51 people who had evidence of previous lassa virus infection. twenty-six of 32 local residents who had previously sustained a sudden deafness had antibody titers to lassa virus of 16 or greater, compared with six of 32 matched controls. lassa fever is associated with an incidence of snhd, which considerably exceeds that previously reported with any other postnatally acquired infection, and accounts for a prevalence of virus-related hearing impairment in the eastern province of sierra leone that is greater than that reported from anywhere else in the world.
the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in renal cell carcinoma. this retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in 218 renal cell carcinoma patients during the last 20 years. of 218 patients 20 (9.2%) were hypercalcemic, with serum calcium levels ranging from 10.7 to 16.0 mg./dl. the respective incidence of humoral hypercalcemia was 3% in patients with stage i, 5.9% with stage ii, 14.1% with stage iii and 18.9% with stage iv disease without bone metastasis. the survival curves between the hypercalcemic and eucalcemic groups among stages i to iii cancer patients showed no statistical significance (p greater than 0.05). the survival curve deteriorated significantly in stage iv cancer patients with humoral hypercalcemia (p less than 0.005), with a median survival of 45.0 +/- 39.7 days versus 286.4 +/- 27.6 days in eucalcemic patients. no specific correlation was found between pathological cell type and humoral hypercalcemia.
alanine-based oral rehydration therapy for infants with acute diarrhea. twenty male infants less than 1 year of age with acute diarrhea and dehydration were randomly assigned to a study group and studied in blind fashion in a metabolic unit to assess the efficacy of the addition of 30 mmol/l alanine to the standard world health organization (who) oral rehydration solution (ors). patients were exclusively rehydrated with one of two types of ors during the first 24 hours of treatment. on the second day, oral feedings were started with a lactose-free formula, and ors was given to replace stool losses. body weight, ors, food intake, vomitus, stool, and urine output were recorded at 6-hour intervals. blood was drawn at the time of admission, after rehydration, and at 24 and 48 hours of hospitalization to monitor blood gases and electrolytes. rehydration was satisfactory in both groups of patients. ors that contained alanine did not reduce the purging rates of the infants compared with those who received standard ors. clinically no adverse effect of the alanine-based ors was observed during hospitalization. none of the patients had significant hypernatremia or hyponatremia, and serum amino acid levels were not altered. these data show that the addition of 30 mmol/l alanine to the standard who-ors produces no further improvement in the outcome of the infants with acute diarrhea compared with those fed the standard who-ors.
oral contraceptives, lipoproteins, and atherosclerosis. a nonhuman primate model was developed to study the effects of oral contraceptives on lipoproteins and atherosclerosis. cynomolgus macaques were selected because of their susceptibility to diet-induced atherosclerosis and because their reproductive physiology, menstrual cycle, and circulating sex hormone patterns are similar to those of human females. the first study compared a vaginal ring containing levonorgestrel and estradiol with an oral contraceptive containing norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol. a second study compared two oral combinations: norgestrel-ethinyl estradiol and ethynodiol diacetate-ethinyl estradiol. as predicted, use of all the contraceptives led to lowering of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. however, contrary to what might be expected, use of the ethinyl estradiol-containing oral contraceptives did not lead to an increase in the prevalence or extent of atherosclerosis. we concluded that ethinyl estradiol neutralized the atherogenic influence of the progestin component of oral contraceptives.
psychological stress and the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome. the relationship of stress and social support to the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome (fs) was investigated by administration of 4 questionnaire instruments to 28 patients with fs, 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and 28 pain-free normal controls. fs showed higher levels of stress as measured by daily "hassles" than did ra or controls. however, on a measure of major life stress, they reported lower levels. no differences were found between groups with regard to daily "uplifts" or social support. correlations between those measures of stress and social support with their scores on the arthritis impact measurement scale showed that the hassles scale was significantly related to the aims psychological component.
sumatriptan in acute migraine: pharmacology and review of world experience. the introduction of sumatriptan, a novel abortive antimigraine agent, has generated a significant amount of preclinical and clinical interest during the past few years. at the scientific level, sumatriptan is unique in terms of its selective pharmacological properties. the effects of sumatriptan in various experimental paradigms have led to new insights into the pathophysiology of migraine. at the clinical level, sumatriptan appears to be an effective abortive anti-migraine agent with minimal side effects. its ability to decrease, rather than exacerbate, the nausea and vomiting of migraine appears to be an important advance in the treatment of migraine.
neurological and ophthalmological phenomena after aortic conduit surgery. transient neurological and visual signs have been observed in some patients after valved conduit replacement of the aortic valve and ascending aorta. twenty-seven patients having valved conduit replacement between february 1982 and october 1988 were compared with 21 patients having combined aortic valve replacement (avr) and ascending aorta (aa) graft replacement. follow-up in 100% of both groups was obtained for 0.3-6.6 years (mean, 2.6 +/- 0.3 years). among 20 surviving valved conduit patients, 10 (50.0%) experienced repetitive neurological and visual signs, including scotomata (seven), transient motor ischemic attacks (two), amaurosis fugax (four), and recurring attention lapses suggesting petit mal seizures (one). no patient with avr + aa graft experienced any events (p = 0.004). all valved conduit and seven (53.8%) of avr + aa graft patients were on warfarin (p = 0.0016). these events retained the same pattern although they diminished in frequency after 12 months in seven patients (70.0%) and after initiation of dipyridamole in two patients. rehabilitation was similar in both groups: 18 of 20 (90.0%) valved conduit and 12 of 16 (75.0%) avr + aa graft patients (p = ns). transient, repetitive, nonprogressive neurological and ophthalmological phenomena are frequent after valved conduit replacement. the pathophysiological mechanism is unclear, but antiplatelet therapy may provide symptomatic control.
needle-localized mammographic lesions. results and evolving treatment strategy. from january 1981 to december 1987, 932 needle-localization breast biopsies were performed at our institution for mammographically detected abnormalities. we reviewed 531 needle-localization breast biopsy procedures performed during two periods (january 1981 to june 1984, n = 311; and january to august 1987, n = 220) to compare results and treatment patterns, and to determine the prevalence of the missed lesions. mammographic abnormalities detected on routine screening accounted for a larger proportion of needle-localization breast biopsies in the later series (94 [30%] of 311 vs 94 [43%] of 220). however, the rate at which carcinoma was identified remained constant at 29% as did the percentage of cancers that were invasive (46% vs 51%). overall, the rate of malignant diagnoses after needle-localization breast biopsy was lowest in asymptomatic women undergoing routine screening mammography (44 [24%] of 188) and significantly higher in women undergoing mammographic follow-up of the contralateral breast after treatment for breast cancer (28 [43%] of 65). there were seven missed lesions in 531 needle-localization breast biopsies, necessitating a second procedure in six and interval mammograms in one.
prevention of cardiovascular disease: risks and benefits of aspirin. aspirin has been tested for its benefit in preventing cardiovascular disease in randomized trials in three categories of patients. in secondary prevention among those with a history of myocardial infarction (mi), stroke or transient cerebral ischemia, or unstable angina pectoris, 25 randomized trials demonstrated significant reductions from aspirin of 25% for the occurrence of an "important vascular event" (nonfatal mi, nonfatal stroke, or vascular death), 32% for nonfatal mi, 27% for nonfatal stroke, and 15% for vascular mortality. among those evolving an mi, the second international study of infarct survival (isis-2) showed a significant reduction of 23% in five-week vascular mortality among those started on a one-month regimen of daily aspirin within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of suspected mi. aspirin also significantly reduced reinfarction, nonfatal stroke, and important vascular events. finally, in primary prevention, the us physicians' health study (phs) showed a significant 44% reduction in the occurrence of a first mi among apparently healthy male physicians; numbers of strokes and vascular deaths were insufficient to permit conclusions for these endpoints. thus, aspirin is of clear benefit in reducing mi, stroke, and vascular death in secondary prevention and among those evolving an mi. it is also beneficial in the primary prevention of mi among men over 40, but data concerning its effects on stroke and vascular death remain inconclusive.
susceptibility to effects of uvb radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity as a risk factor for skin cancer in humans. normal, healthy human volunteers and patients with proved history of non-melanoma skin cancer have been tested for their capacity to develop contact hypersensitivity to dinitrochlorobenzene (dncb) following exposure of buttock skin to acute, low-dose ultraviolet b (uvb) radiation. using a radiation protocol that achieves virtually complete depletion of normal-appearing langerhans cells from irradiated skin, it was learned that approximately 60% of healthy volunteers developed vigorous contact hypersensitivity (ch) when 2000 micrograms dncb was painted on the irradiated site. these individuals were designated uvb-resistant, and were distinguished from other individuals, designated uvb-susceptible, who failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following an identical treatment protocol. it was then discovered that virtually all (92%) skin cancer patients exposed to uvb and dncb failed to develop ch, i.e., were uvb-susceptible. in subsequent experiments, epicutaneous application of 2000 micrograms dncb to unirradiated skin of uvb-susceptible individuals revealed a further distinction between normal persons and skin cancer patients. approximately 45% of the latter (and none of the former) remained unresponsive (failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following this second attempt at sensitization), implying that they had been rendered immunologically tolerant. these tolerant individuals responded normally to the unrelated hapten, diphencyprone. we conclude that human beings resemble inbred strains of laboratory mice in that some individuals are uvb-susceptible, whereas others are uvb-resistant. because the incidence of uvb-susceptibility was significantly higher in skin cancer patients, and as specific unresponsiveness could be demonstrated only in these patients, we propose that uvb-susceptibility, as we define it in this hapten system, may be a risk factor for the development of skin cancer.
rehabilitation of the pediatric patient with a neuromuscular disease. a rehabilitation program for a patient with a neuromuscular disease can be developed only after an accurate diagnosis has been established. the diagnosis and its ramifications should suggest a natural course of disease which, it is hoped, can be improved upon with a rational and realistic program. the program is best developed by an interdisciplinary team, including a pediatric neurologist, who should have the greatest understanding of the patient's problem and should ultimately be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the program. a child with cerebral palsy commonly requires the services of physical and occupational therapists as well as knowledgeable orthopedists. is the program appropriate? does it consider the child's potential as well as his limitations? a child with a traumatic brain injury requires, in addition to the above, psychological intervention and an intensive educational program. will the child and family need help from mental health professionals? a child with a motor unit disease such as duchenne's muscular dystrophy requires, in addition to the above services, a "philosophy" of care. will the child ever ambulate independently? if so, at what cost? what will be necessary for the child to reach this potential, including items such as orthoses and adaptive equipment? will respirator care become necessary? what issues must be addressed for this form of care to be established? there is no one program for all children. the programs must be individualized to meet the needs of the patient and the family. this point cannot be overemphasized.
acute respiratory failure caused by pulmonary vasculitis after l-tryptophan ingestion. this report describes two women who presented with severe respiratory failure and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates in the fall of 1989. both required prolonged assisted ventilation because of severe shunt physiology. open lung biopsies on admission revealed a small vessel vasculitis as the sole morphologic abnormality in both patients. both responded to high dose corticosteroids. neither patient exhibited evidence of systemic vasculitis, and neither had serologic evidence of an immune disorder. common to both patients was ingestion of l-tryptophan. one patient exhibited several features of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the other patient did not appear to have the syndrome, but the temporal relationship between the onset of symptoms and initiation of l-tryptophan treatment was striking. the presentation of these patients alters our notions concerning the spectrum of clinical manifestations caused by this agent, and the response to methylprednisolone supports its efficacy in the treatment of this disorder.
elective resection of 332 abdominal aortic aneurysms in a southern west virginia community during a recent five-year period. this study analyzed 33 variables that might potentially affect outcome in a series of 332 consecutive elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repairs in a southern west virginia community. one of the interesting features of this series was that the repairs were done by 22 surgeons with varying degrees of experience. the mortality and complication rates were compared for various potential risk factors by both univariant methods (chi 2, fisher's exact, and student t tests) and multivariant methods of analysis. our early mortality (2.1%) and postoperative complication rates were consistent with those of other series. with multiple linear regression models, five factors were selected as significant independent risk factors associated with an increasing number of postoperative complications: the number of blood transfusions (p less than 0.0001), left renal vein ligation (p less than 0.0001), the presence of greater than 50% renal artery stenosis (p = 0.0012), the lesser experience of the surgeon (p = 0.0203), and the history of prior cardiac catheterization (p = 0.0245). the only factor statistically correlated with mortality rate was an increased number of postoperative complications (p less than 0.0001). neither postoperative complications nor mortality rate was found to be significant and independently influenced by other demographic, clinical, or operative factors. it is tempting to speculate that surgeons with less experience might be well served to refer patients with significant renal artery stenosis and coronary artery disease. our mortality and complication rates were not increased by performing preoperative angiography and therefore prudent surgeons may find this helpful in selecting patients for safer repair.
sincalide-aided ultrasonography of the common bile duct as a predictor of biliary obstruction determined by ercp and biliary manometry. sonographically observed changes in common bile duct caliber following intravenous sincalide injection were correlated with distal common duct pathology as defined by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and biliary manometry. thirty-two patients, 17 with prior cholecystectomies, were studied. in post-cholecystectomy patients, a 1-mm or greater diminution of duct caliber within 5 min represented a normal response. when gallbladder contraction occurred in normal patients with an intact gallbladder, no change or a diminution in duct caliber was observed. when gallbladder contraction was not observed, a normal response was considered to be the same as that in post-cholecystectomy patients with a diminution in duct caliber occurring. by using these criteria two false negatives, both with hypertensive sphincters of oddi that responded normally to sincalide injection, were encountered. this technique was valuable in defining non-obstructed post-cholecystectomy dilated bile ducts which demonstrated a prompt diminution in caliber following sincalide injection.
management of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection in adults. acute uncomplicated uti is one of the most common problems for which young women seek medical attention, and it accounts for considerable morbidity and health care costs. acute cystitis is a superficial infection of the bladder mucosa, whereas pyelonephritis involves tissue invasion of the upper urinary tract. localization tests suggest that as many as one third of episodes of acute cystitis are associated with silent upper tract involvement. acute cystitis or pyelonephritis in the adult patient should be considered uncomplicated if the patient is not pregnant or elderly, if there has been no recent instrumentation or antimicrobial treatment, and if there are no known functional or anatomic abnormalities of the genitourinary tract. most of these infections are caused by e. coli, which are susceptible to many oral antimicrobials. because of the superficial nature of cystitis, single-dose and 3-day regimens have gained wide acceptance as the preferred methods of treatment. review of the published data suggests that a 3-day regimen is more effective than a single-dose regimen for all antimicrobials tested. regimens with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole appear to be more effective than those with beta-lactams, regardless of the duration. acute pyelonephritis does not necessarily imply a complicated infection. upper tract infection with highly virulent uropathogens in an otherwise healthy woman may be considered an uncomplicated infection. the optimal treatment duration for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis has not been established, and 14-day regimens are often used. we prefer to use antimicrobials that attain high renal tissue levels, such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or quinolones, for pyelonephritis. women with frequently recurring infections can be successfully managed by continuous prophylaxis, either daily or thrice-weekly, by postcoital prophylaxis, or, in compliant patients, by early self-administration of single-dose or 3-day therapy as soon as typical symptoms are noted. our drug of choice for all these regimens is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. acute uncomplicated cystitis in adult men is very uncommon, but it is occasionally noted in homosexual men who practice insertive and intercourse or in heterosexual men whose partners have vaginal colonization with e. coli.
differentiation in embryonal neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system. ninety-six embryonal neuroectodermal tumors were studied histologically and immunohistologically with a panel of antibodies including glial, neuronal, epithelial, mesodermal, and myelin markers. in 71 tumors there was glial and neuronal differentiation and expression both of an s (photoreceptor) antigen and vimentin. in five tumors there was only glial differentiation and in 20 tumors only neuronal differentiation. no reactivity for myelin and epithelial markers was found. histologic and immunohistologic findings identified various degrees of differentiation in different tumors, which was bipolar (glial and neuronal) in most tumors and unipolar in the remainder. the authors suggest that their findings may be the result of normal or aberrant oncogenic differentiation, agreeing with the nomenclature of the world health organization classification for these tumors with and the inclusion of a category for ependymoblastoma.
selective myectomy for postparetic facial synkinesis. synkinetic movements are secondary to facial palsy because they appear like a late sequela to spontaneously healing facial nerve injury. they are produced by an involuntary contraction of a muscle group simultaneous with contraction of other homologous muscle groups. the disorderly regeneration of severed axons is responsible for these movements. according to the lippschitz theory, the regenerating nerve fibers sprout into the wrong peripheral branches. between 1975 and 1986, 71 patients with facial paralysis were evaluated. spontaneous recovery from the facial paralysis occurred in 28 of these patients; 14 (50 percent) developed synkinetic movements, and surgical treatment was sought by only 6 patients. in all patients, the lesion of the facial nerve was in the trunk, proximal to the principal ramification. the most frequent clinical finding was simultaneous activation between the orbicularis oculi and the elevators of the corner of the mouth (12 patients) or the elevators of the upper lip (2 patients). in 8 patients, in whom the slight synkinesis was not noticed by the patients, surgical correction was not necessary, but in the other 6 patients with severe aesthetic disturbances, surgical treatment for "disconnection" of the wrong impulses was realized. i obtained this "disconnection" through resection of the involved perioral muscle groups instead of paralysis of the orbicularis oculi. follow-up of the 6 patients operated with the surgical treatment proposed herein for between 4 and 8 years has shown good aesthetic results without functional or aesthetic sequelae.
the use of interferon alpha-c in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma arising in a congenital solitary kidney. three cases of renal cell carcinoma in a congenital solitary kidney are presented. treatment with recombinant interferon alpha-c was administered in two cases. a subjective response occurred in one case. the literature is reviewed with respect to treatment options and prognostic factors.
major depression, panic disorder, and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain. purpose: patients with chest pain but without angiographic evidence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (cad) are often found to have other medical or psychiatric disorders, including mitral valve prolapse, panic disorder (pd), and major depressive disorder (mdd). the purpose of this study was to determine the degree of comorbidity between mdd/pd and mitral valve prolapse in a group of patients with non-cad chest pain. patients and methods: patients referred for cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography for suspected cad who were 70 years of age or younger and without other significant medical illnesses or cardiac complications were eligible for study. the first 100 patients who agreed to a psychiatric diagnostic interview were recruited. results: forty-eight of the 100 patients were found to be without significant cad. forty-two percent of these patients, compared to 19% of the patients with significant cad, were found to have either mdd, pd, or both. eighty percent of the patients without cad who had mitral valve prolapse also had either mdd or pd (p less than 0.006). conclusions: the finding that mitral valve prolapse was significantly associated with mdd/pd has implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-cad chest pain, and may explain why these patients complain of symptoms.
heart rate changes as an autonomic component of the pain response. autonomic variables have been recommended as measures of the affective-motivational component of the pain response in objective algesimetry. in the present study components of heart rate responses to painful heat stimuli and their relation to stimulus and sensation variables were analyzed. twelve healthy subjects served. sixty phasic stimuli of varying temperatures above and below pain threshold were delivered through a marstock thermode in 1 session. heart rate, respiration, and subjective stimulus ratings were recorded simultaneously. phasic heat stimulation above and below pain threshold induced a tonic increase of the heart rate lasting up to more than 20 sec. high intensity stimulation generated steeper rises and greater mean increase than low intensity stimulation. in general, heart rate responses were more closely related to subjective sensation than to stimulus intensity. however, differential temporal analysis demonstrates that, until about 3 sec after stimulation, the autonomic response is determined solely by stimulus temperature, whereas, after approximately 6 sec, it is related only to subjective judgement. accordingly, the heart rate responses reflect both a brief nocifensive reflex induced by the sensory component and, subsequently, a longer-lasting response which seems to be related to affective and/or cognitive evaluation. this separation of different stages of pain-processing by an autonomic indicator may be useful in clinical algesimetry.
selenium. nutritional, toxicologic, and clinical aspects despite the recent findings of environmental contamination, selenium toxicosis in humans is exceedingly rare in the united states, with the few known cases resulting from industrial accidents and an episode involving the ingestion of superpotent selenium supplements. chronic selenosis is essentially unheard of in this country because of the typical diversity of the american diet. nonetheless, because of the growing public interest in selenium as a dietary supplement and the occurrence of environmental selenium contamination, medical practitioners should be familiar with the nutritional, toxicologic, and clinical aspects of this trace element.
the peritoneal environment during infection. the effect of monomicrobial and polymicrobial bacteria on po2 and ph. intraperitoneal (ip) abscesses frequently are composed of aerobes and anaerobes, and, in experimental models, a particulate adjuvant. the environmental changes effected by these components, either singularly or in combination, have not been well defined. the ip po2, ph, and recoverable bacteria from the peritoneum of rats were quantified over 6 hours during simple aerobic and anaerobic infections and during mixed peritonitis with and without a sterile feces-barium sulfate adjuvant (sfa). fourteen groups were studied, receiving intraperitoneally, at time of oxygen probe placement, 1 ml normal saline (control), escherichia coli (ec), bacteroides fragilis (bf), sfa alone, or a mixture of ec and bf, ec and sfa, bf and sfa, or ec, bf, and sfa. control animals exhibited a stable ip po2 and ph during 6 hours. in monomicrobial ec peritonitis, inocula well below the ld50 produced an increased ip po2 and reduced arterial-peritoneal gradient (apg), with a stable ip ph. by 6 hours lethal doses of ec produced a dramatic decline in ip po2, with no change in arterial po2 as well as acidic ip and arterial phs. simple bf peritonitis caused no or minor elevations in ip and arterial po2 with no change in ph. during mixed infections a significant decline in the ip po2 and ph at 6 hours in those groups infected with both sfa and ec of a moderate, normally sublethal inoculation was observed, while arterial po2 was unchanged and arterial ph was decreased only slightly. concomitantly there was a significant increased number of aerobic bacteria in those groups with sfa as adjuvant compared to similar inocula without sfa. this study demonstrates the complex interactions of bacteria, sterile particulate adjuvant (sfa), and the host peritoneum. it suggests that the combination of sfa and aerobic bacteria alter the peritoneal environment to one permitting anaerobic growth and promoting abscess formation.
adjuvant, specific, active immunotherapy for resectable squamous cell lung carcinoma: a 5-year survival analysis. in 1976 stewart et al. (annals of the new york academy of sciences 277:436-466) reported the effectiveness of adjuvant specific active immunotherapy of lung carcinoma in improving the postoperative survival of stage i lung carcinoma patients in a phase ii study using lung carcinoma-associated antigen (taa) and complete freund's adjuvant (cfa). a phase iii study was then designed by the authors to see the effects of specific active immunotherapy compared to the conventional management (no treatment) and to nonspecific immunotherapy. from 1976 to 1981, 85 patients with resectable (stages i and ii) squamous cell lung carcinoma were entered into a randomized study: 1) control group; 2) specific immunotherapy group--three monthly doses of 500 micrograms of taa emulsified with cfa; 3) nonspecific immunotherapy group--three monthly doses of cfa emulsified in saline. all the patients in the study received skin tests with 100 micrograms of the same taa used for the immunotherapy. recently, a 5-year follow-up of all the patients became available: the life table 5-year survival of group 1 was 34%, of group 2 was 75%, and of group 3 was 53%. the median survivals for the three groups were group 1, 38 months; group 2, 106 months; and group 3, 71 months. the difference was significant at p = .007 (cox-mantel test).
tumor-antigen 4. its immunohistochemical distribution and tissue and serum concentrations in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and esophagus. the immunohistochemical distribution and concentrations of tumor-antigen 4 (ta-4) in tissues and serum were determined in patients with benign and malignant diseases, including 27 patients with squamous cell carcinoma (scc; 15 in the lung and 12 in the esophagus). tumor-antigen 4 immunoreactivity was present in the cytoplasm of many scc tissues, especially in the hyperparakeratotic region, and in the cytoplasm of differentiated squamous cells of the intermediate layer of normal epithelia of various organs, but not in those of other types of lung cancers or benign pulmonary diseases. consistent with the results of immunostaining, the ta-4 concentrations in scc tissues of the lung, esophagus, and normal squamous epithelia were much higher than in those of lung cancer other than scc, benign pulmonary diseases, normal lung, and submandibular gland tissues. the ta-4 concentration in scc tissue tended to increase with increasing grades of differentiation. serum ta-4 was elevated in 15 of 27 patients with scc but in no patients with other types of lung cancer or benign diseases. these results indicate that ta-4 is an antigen related to the differentiation of squamous cells and that tumor cells of scc can release a large amount of ta-4 into circulation whereas normal squamous epithelia cannot.
incontinence and rectal prolapse: a prospective manometric study. a prospective, manometric study has been performed on 23 female patients with rectal prolapse and varying degrees of incontinence. seven of the 14 incontinent patients regained continence after surgery, and a further two patients improved. improvement in internal and external sphincter function follows correction of rectal prolapse. preoperative resting anal pressure was significantly higher in continent patients than in incontinent patients (p less than 0.05), as was the maximum voluntary contraction pressure (p less than 0.027). postoperatively there was a significant increase in the resting anal pressure (p less than 0.0001) and maximum voluntary contraction pressure (p less than 0.003) in the whole group. the preoperative resting anorectal angle was significantly more acute (p less than 0.028) in continent patients than in incontinent patients. there was no significant change in the resting anorectal angle following prolapse repair. patients who remained incontinent had a significantly lower preoperative resting anal pressure (p less than 0.01) than patients who improved or regained continence. similarly, maximum voluntary contraction pressure was lower preoperatively in these patients (p less than 0.02). preoperative resting anal pressure below 10 mm hg and maximum voluntary contraction pressure below 50 mm hg are associated with persisting incontinence after surgery.
naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms. forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2-year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk. patients were divided into two groups for analysis. twenty-four patients, who were treated from january 1984 to december 1986, did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration (group a). twenty-three patients, who were treated from january 1987 to august 1989, had spinal fluid drainage (group b); 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery. permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven (29%) group a patients but in only one (4%) group b patient, who did not receive naloxone (p less than 0.03). the first two group b patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia. this significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate (72% in group a, 91% in group b). we conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms. this reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term. the observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia.
experimental nerve root compression. a model of acute, graded compression of the porcine cauda equina and an analysis of neural and vascular anatomy. nerve root compression has been suggested as one important pathogenetic factor in low-back pain syndromes and sciatica. the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms are, however, incompletely known, partly because of the lack of experimental data on this topic. in the present study, a model for experimental compression of the porcine sacrococcygeal cauda equina is presented. the model consists of surgical exposure of the cauda equina and compression of the cauda equina toward the ventral aspect of the spinal canal by an inflatable balloon fixed to the spine. this compression system was shown to have a high accuracy in pressure transmission from the balloon to the cauda equina. the gross and microscopic neural anatomy and the vascular anatomy of the porcine cauda equina were analyzed with light microscopic and ink-perfusion techniques. the porcine cauda equina showed a close anatomic resemblance to the human lumbosacral cauda equina. the presented model offers unique possibilities for experimental studies on nerve root compression injury because of the easy surgical exposure and the sufficient length of the nerve roots. in separate studies, this model, along with investigations of solute transport to the nerve tissue and of impulse propagation, has been used to analyze the effects of acute, graded compression on blood flow and edema formation in the cauda equina. the porcine cauda equina would also be particularly suitable for chronic compression studies because any neurologic deficit acquired would be restricted to the tail.
stridor: intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis. during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit, nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy. when tracheally extubated, each child was found to have stridor. the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years. two patients had unilateral paralysis, but neither required tracheostomy. seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis. of these, six patients required tracheostomy. surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients. the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure. four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months. both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later. cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull. early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated, especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension.
hypertrophic smooth muscle in the partially obstructed opossum esophagus. the model: histological and ultrastructural observations. obstruction is a complication of many esophageal diseases, but the morphological changes occurring in the obstructed esophagus are poorly understood. we developed a model of esophageal obstruction in the american opossum, didelphis virginiana. a nonconstricting band around the gastroesophageal junction led to esophageal distention and tortuosity in the weeks following its placement. despite a marked increase of the esophageal circumference, the esophageal wall was not thinned, and the circular muscle layer had actually increased its thickness. this was due to an increase in the size of individual smooth muscle cells with proportional increases in the cell surface area and volume. the electron density of hypertrophic smooth muscle cells varied much more than that of normal esophageal smooth muscle cells. as cell size increased, the tissue became more compact and the size of the extracellular space decreased. also, the extracellular space was filled by an amorphous electron-dense material. additional changes in the structure of hypertrophic smooth muscle cells included prominent intermediate filaments in the vicinity of thick filaments. there was no difference in the structure of the hypertrophic smooth muscle at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks after placement of the band. the morphological features described here resemble those seen in human esophageal spasm and achalasia of humans and could affect esophageal smooth muscle function.
perinatal grief and mourning. the grief and mourning that parents experience following a perinatal loss is as devastating as the loss of an older loved one. the pattern of mourning can be anticipated and interventions can be implemented. with proper help, the parents can pass through this catastrophic time in their lives with a minimum of scars. if the physician stops, reaches out, listens, and supports the parents, he or she can have a dramatic effect on the lives of these parents. in the same manner in which we started this paper, we close with a quotation from another parent who suffered a loss: daughters may die, but why? for even daughters can't live with half a heart. three days isn't much a life. but long enough to remember thin blue lips, uneven gasps in incubators, racking breaths that cause a pain to those who watched. long enough to remember i never held her or felt her softness or counted her toes. i didn't even know the color of her eyes. dead paled hands not quite covered by the gown she was to go home in. moist earth smell. one small casket. and the tears. you see, i hold in my hand but souvenirs of an occasion. a sheet of paper filled with statistics, a certificate with smudged footprints, a tiny bracelet engraved "girl, smith." you say that you are sorry that you know how i feel. but you can't know because i don't feel. not yet.
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced colonic strictures: a case report. adverse effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs can occur throughout the whole gastrointestinal tract. recently, several cases of "diaphragmlike" thin ileal strictures have been reported. these strictures seem to result from nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced inflammatory changes and apparently represent a newly recognized nosological entity. the case of a 61-year-old man who gradually developed similar inflammatory changes in the ascending colon during prolonged intake of a slow-release form of diclofenac is presented, and the literature on nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced intestinal strictures is briefly reviewed.
fatal pulmonary venoocclusive disease secondary to a generalized venulopathy: a new syndrome presenting with facial swelling and pericardial tamponade. we describe a patient who developed fatal pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to diffuse venulitis. this otherwise healthy young woman first presented with generalized venulopathy, with chemosis, facial swelling, pleural effusions, and pericardial tamponade. the symptoms partially responded to steroid therapy, but over a 2-year course, a rapidly progressive and fatal venoocclusive disease developed. no other primary condition was diagnosed, and at autopsy, the patient had striking venulitis throughout, including the pulmonary bed. we believe that this is a unique case of pulmonary hypertension resulting from a generalized venulopathy.
expression of vhiii-associated cross-reactive idiotype on human b lymphocytes. association with staphylococcal protein a binding and staphylococcus aureus cowan i stimulation. it has been demonstrated that staphylococcal protein a (spa) has an "alternative" binding site with specificity for human ig h chain v region of the vhiii subgroup. because the major mitogenic component of staphylococcus aureus cowan i (sac) is spa, it is possible that sac stimulates a subpopulation of b cells expressing ig of the vhiii h chain subgroup. in the present study, we have investigated further the relationship between spa binding and the expression of vhi- or vhiii-associated cross-reactive idiotype (cri) on the surface of tonsillar b lymphocytes enriched for the expression or nonexpression of the cri, and we examined the ig secreted by cell lines established from these populations of b cells by ebv transformation. the vhiii cri (d12)-enriched population yielded 21 cell lines, with 67% of them secreting spa-reactive ig; in contrast, only 6% (1 of 16) of vhi cri-expressing lines secreted spa-reactive ig. the cri-negative b cell population yielded 54 cell lines, of which 20% secreted spa-reactive ig, as might be anticipated because a majority of vhiii ig+ b cells will be cri-. sac stimulation of cri+ and cri- populations showed preferential stimulation of the d12 population. these data support the proposal that sac stimulation of human b cells is mediated through binding of spa by its alternative binding site to igv regions of the vhiii subgroup.
ten-year follow-up of quality of life in patients randomized to receive medical therapy or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. the coronary artery surgery study (cass) quality of life indexes were assessed in 780 patients 10 years after randomization to medical therapy (n = 390) or coronary artery bypass graft surgery (n = 390) in the coronary artery surgery study. at 10 years, mortality was 21.8% in the medical group and 19.2% in the surgical group (p = ns), and 144 (37%) of the medical group had undergone surgery because of increasing chest pain. at study entry, 22% of medical and surgical patients were angina free; at 1 and 5 years after entry, the frequency of asymptomatic patients was 66% and 63% in the surgical group and 30% and 38% in the medical group. however, by 10 years after entry, the proportion of patients free of angina had fallen to 47% in the surgical group and to 42% in the medical group. activity limitation and use of beta-blockers and long-acting nitrates were less in the surgical than the medical group at 1 and 5 years after entry but little different from the medical group at 10 years after entry. throughout follow-up, recreational status, employment status, frequency of heart failure, use of other medications, and hospitalization frequency were similar between the two groups. thus, indexes of quality of life such as angina relief, increased activity, and reduction in use of antianginal medications initially appear superior in patients with stable manifestations of ischemic heart disease assigned to surgery, but by 10 years after entry, these advantages are much less apparent. although the observed similarities of the medically and surgically assigned groups at 10 years reflect return of symptoms in the surgical group to some extent, a more important explanation is the performance of late surgery in a large proportion of the medically assigned patients, rendering them asymptomatic.
the role of antihistamine therapy in vascular headaches. migraine (vascular) headache is a complex syndrome that involves vascular hyperreactivity. the functions of systemic mediators in migraine are not fully understood. it is unclear which mediators provoke this probably atopic disorder and which represent an attempt to correct an imbalance. however, it has been demonstrated fairly conclusively that increased histamine levels correlate with migraine attacks in susceptible persons. recent studies showing that histamine seems to have many different receptors and to adopt different conformations for different receptors may serve as a useful guide to future scientific investigation. further impetus may come from ongoing studies of h3 histamine receptors, which indicate that h3 agonists offer promise as prophylactic agents for people who suffer from vascular headaches.
localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide in human esophageal langerhans cells. previously undescribed calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive intraepithelial cells were seen in specimens of esophageal mucosa obtained by biopsy or surgical resection from 14 individuals. these calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive cells were sparsely seen in normal mucosa but increased markedly in esophagitis. they were inaccessible to routine histological stains, but osmication showed them as dendritic forms resembling langerhans cells of the skin. their cytological identity was determined with immunocytochemical tests for human antigenic markers such as ia, hla-dr, and okt6 for langerhans cells, leu-m5 and leu-m3 for intraepithelial macrophages, cd3 and tcr-1 for t-lymphocytes, leu-14 for b-lymphocytes, s-100 for merkel cells, and chromogranin for amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cells. double localization showed that calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity colocalized with ia, hla-dr, and okt6 but not with the other markers. these studies show that intraepithelial langerhans cells in the esophageal mucosa contain calcitonin gene-related peptide, which may serve as an immunomodulator.
dacron fabric-enveloped hydroxyapatite prosthesis for sternal tumor defect: an autopsy report. a 38-year-old housewife with solitary plasmacytoma of the manubrium who underwent a subtotal sternectomy treated by resection of the lesion is reported. this was followed by replacement with a dacron fabric-enveloped hydroxyapatite prosthesis. the dacron fabric was sutured to the surrounding tissues, and then the clavicle was passed through the cylindrical-shaped dacron fabric to form a sternoclavicular joint capsule. the patient returned to her daily life 3 months after the operation. she had no trouble in her daily living, without any dislocation of the sternoclavicular joints or any displacement of the artificial sternum. the autopsy examination about 1 year after the operation showed that the dacron fabric enveloping the artificial sternum became stronger with time. the sternoclavicular joint also was stably fixed, and the dacron fabric fulfilled its function as an artificial articular capsule and biologic fixation of the surrounding supporting tissues.
primary peritoneal sarcoidosis. a 14-year-old male was admitted for the evaluation of tense exudative ascites. despite thorough evaluation, the diagnosis remained cryptic until peritoneoscopy revealed diffuse studding of the entire visualized peritoneum with multiple miliary nodules, and peritoneal biopsy demonstrated multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas. after other causes were excluded, a diagnosis of sarcoidosis was considered and confirmed with classic endobronchial findings at bronchoscopy. involvement of the peritoneum with sarcoidosis is rare and, to our knowledge, only one other case describes this as the initial manifestation of this disease.
mild hypothermic cardiopulmonary resuscitation improves outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs background and methods: this study was designed to explore the effect of mild cerebral and systemic hypothermia (34 degrees c) on outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs. after ventricular fibrillation with no flow of 10 min, and standard external cpr with epinephrine (low flow) from ventricular fibrillation time of 10 to 15 min, defibrillation and restoration of spontaneous normotension were between ventricular fibrillation time of 16 and 20 min. this procedure was followed by controlled ventilation to 20 hr postarrest and intensive care to 72 hr postarrest. in control group 1 (n = 10), core temperature was 37.5 degrees c; in control group 2 (n = 10), cooling was started immediately after restoration of spontaneous normotension; and in group 3 (n = 10), cooling was initiated with start of cpr. cooling was by clinically feasible methods. results: best overall performance categories achieved (1 = normal; 5 = brain death) were better in group 2 (p = .012) and group 3 (p = .005) than in group 1. best neurologic deficit scores were 36 +/- 14% in group 1, 22 +/- 15% in group 2 (p = .02), and 19 +/- 18% in group 3 (p = .01). brain histopathologic damage scores were also lower (better) in groups 2 (p = .05) and 3 (p = .03). myocardial damage was the same in all three groups. conclusion: mild cerebral hypothermia started during or immediately after external cpr improves neurologic recovery.
a critical analysis of the largest reported mass fecal occult blood screening program in the united states. fecal occult blood testing for the detection of colon cancer remains controversial. we performed a mass screening program from january 24, 1988, to february 19, 1988, with intensive media promotion, including 121 minutes of televised air time. a total of 5,000 primary practitioners were notified by mail. hemoccult-ii tests were distributed to 156,000 individuals; 55,051 (35%) were returned. ninety-five percent of the respondents were informed of the program by television. a total of 3,375 persons (6%) tested positive for fecal occult blood; of these, 2,469 (73%) informed the center that they saw their physician to initiate a work-up. information from physicians regarding work-ups was returned on only 1,356 (55%) patients. diagnostic tests numbered 2,227 (1.6 tests per patient). however, 5% had no testing, 16% had a repeat hemoccult only, and 35% had neither a barium enema nor colonoscopy performed. thirty-six colorectal cancers and 212 polyps were identified. the predictive value (i.e., number of cancers per number of patients who tested positive) increased directly by decade. thirty-three of 36 patients (92%) with cancer underwent either a barium enema or colonoscopy versus only 185 of 438 (42%) patients with a "negative" work-up. cancers found were carcinoma in situ in 10 patients (29%), dukes a in 12 (35%), dukes b in 4 (12%), and dukes c in 8 (24%); distant metastases were not found in any participant. thirty-six percent of the tumors were located in either the right or transverse colon. we conclude that: (1) screening identified early cancers. all were potentially curable and 64% were limited to the bowel wall. (2) massive hemoccult distribution was possible over a short interval, but patient and physician compliance was disturbingly low. (3) total colonic evaluation is mandatory, since at least 36% of tumors were beyond the reach of the flexible sigmoidoscope. (4) many work-ups were unnecessary (repeat hemoccults) or inadequate, indicating a need for physician education.
long-term follow-up comparing subclavian flap angioplasty to resection with modified oblique end-to-end anastomosis the definitive surgical procedure for correction of aortic coarctation remains controversial. therefore, we retrospectively reviewed a total of 56 children under 4 years of age with coarctation repair between 1977 and 1986. thirty-four had the subclavian flap angioplasty technique and 22 had resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis. the group was further subdivided to include only the 23 infants less than 3 months of age--eight infants with resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis (less than or equal to 3ete) and 15 infants with subclavian flap angioplasty (greater than or equal to 3sfa). the remaining 33 patients older than 3 months of age were divided into 14 patients with resection and oblique end-to-end anastomosis (greater than 3ete) and 19 patients with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique (greater than 3sfa). the overall mortality was not significantly different between techniques. postoperative hypertension was significantly more prevalent with end-to-end anastomosis than with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique (p less than 0.01). seven patients had recurrent coarctation. the 6-year actuarial freedom from recoarctation was 93% +/- 6% in the less than or equal to 3sfa group compared with 53% +/- 20% in the less than or equal to 3ete group (p less than 0.02), but there was no significant difference in those children operated on at a later age regarding the type of coarctation repair. therefore, we recommend subclavian flap angioplasty in patients less than 3 months of age. in those older than 3 months either procedure is safe and the risk of recoarctation is similar.
repeat operation for failure of antireflux procedures. the majority of patients who receive modern antireflux operations obtain substantial long-term relief of their symptoms. about 10% to 15% will have persistent or recurrent problems, some severe enough to warrant reoperation for correction. with careful symptom review, barium study, endoscopy, and manometry, the mechanism of failure becomes evident, and remedial surgical treatment may proceed. the results at reoperation are not as good as those of the primary procedure, which emphasizes the need for proper diagnosis and choice of procedure and for reliable execution of technique at the initial treatment.
comparison of ambulatory left ventricular ejection fraction and blood pressure in systemic hypertension in patients with and without increased left ventricular mass. to evaluate the effects of long-standing systemic hypertension on left ventricular (lv) function during daily activities, ambulatory radionuclide monitoring of lv ejection fraction (ef) and blood pressure was performed during exercise and other structured activities in 31 hypertensive patients. patients were divided into 3 groups based on the absence of lv hypertrophy (group 1 [n = 16], lv mass 107 +/- 12 g/m2), presence of lv hypertrophy without electrocardiographic changes (group 2 [n = 10], lv mass 141 +/- 8 g/m2) and lv hypertrophy with associated electrocardiographic changes (group 3 [n = 5], lv mass 158 +/- 9 g/m2). the groups were similar with respect to age, baseline medication, treated and untreated blood pressure, resting ef and treadmill exercise time. patients in group 3 had the longest history of hypertension. peak filling rate was normal in group 1 (2.9 +/- 0.4 end-diastolic volume/s), but reduced at rest in groups 2 (2.4 +/- 0.4) and 3 (2.1 +/- 0.3). patients in group 1 had normal ef responses to exercise and mental stress testing, as well as during routine ambulatory activities. patients in group 2 had a blunted ef response to exercise, and those in group 3 had a significantly abnormal response. both group 2 and 3 patients demonstrated abnormal ef responses to mental stress, as well as cold pressor testing in association with significant increases in mean arterial pressure and marked reduction in diastolic filling rate. decreases in ef were also observed during routine patient monitoring in 3 group 3 patients and 4 group 2 patients. these events were associated with significantly increased blood pressure.
left ventricular dilatation and pulmonary thallium uptake after single-photon emission computer tomography using thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia. this study examined the implications of left ventricular (lv) dilatation and increased pulmonary thallium uptake during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia. the lung-to-heart thallium ratio in the initial images was significantly higher in patients with coronary artery disease (cad) than normal subjects; 0.48 +/- 0.16 in 3-vessel disease (n = 16), 0.43 +/- 0.10 in 2-vessel disease (n = 20), 0.43 +/- 0.08 in 1-vessel disease (n = 16) and 0.36 +/- 0.05 in normal subjects (n = 7) (p less than 0.001, 0.09 and 0.06, respectively). there was a significant correlation between the severity and the extent of the perfusion abnormality (determined from the polar maps) and the lung-to-heart thallium ratio (r = 0.51 and 0.52, respectively, p less than 0.0002). there was also a significant correlation between lung thallium washout and lung-to-heart thallium ratio (r = 0.42, p = 0.0009) and peak heart rate (r = -0.49, p less than 0.0001). the lv dilatation was mostly due to an increase in cavity dimension (30% increase) and to a lesser extent (6% increase) due to increase in lv size. (the cavity dimensions were measured from the short-axis slices at the midventricular level in the initial and delayed images). the dilation was seen in patients with cad but not in the normal subjects. these changes correlated with the extent and severity of the thallium perfusion abnormality. thus, adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia may cause lv dilation and increased lung thallium uptake on the basis of subendocardial ischemia.
experimental contrast-associated nephropathy and its clinical implications. acute renal failure after contrast media injection has been recognized for at least 35 years but the exact mechanism responsible for the renal injury remains an enigma. the clinical characteristics of contrast-induced nephropathy (can) are well-known although more recently the nonoliguric presentation has occurred at an increased frequency--in 70 to 90% of cases. for nonoliguric presentation of can, one can expect an asymptomatic increase in serum creatinine, the mean peak occurring at 4.2 days. if oliguric, the fractional excretion of sodium will be less than 1% and resistant to either fluid challenge or loop diuretics. preexisting renal insufficiency, with or without diabetes mellitus, increases the risk of can 6- to 10-fold but recovery is expected, with less than 10% of all patients requiring dialytic support. despite the growing body of published reports, the lack of a suitable animal model to evaluate various proposed mechanisms of renal injury has compromised our ability to devise a technique for preventing can. a popular scheme has been proposed to describe the possible sequence by which ischemia or nephrotoxins, or both, induce acute renal failure. in particular, a vascular mechanism (i.e., ischemia), is an appealing explanation for can since acute changes in renal hemodynamics after contrast media injection have been confirmed by several animal experiments. unlike other vascular beds in which contrast media induce acute vasoconstriction followed by vasodilatation, the initial effect on the renal circulation is acute vasodilatation, followed by progressive vasoconstriction, increasing renal vascular resistance and a concomitant decrease in both renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate.
use of somatostatin for complications occurring after liver transplantation. somatostatin can be helpful after liver transplantation in some well-defined indications. in uncontrolled digestive haemorrhage, a short course of somatostatin therapy can be of great help in controlling the acute bleeding and to avoid emergency laparotomy. somatostatin could also be helpful in bilio-pancreato-intestinal fistula, but in this case its advantage over elective surgical treatment remains to be confirmed.
gastric infarction. we have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries. we believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental. the outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal.
is there a place for conservative surgery in the treatment of renal carcinoma? since 1981, 31 patients have undergone conservative surgery for malignant renal tumours and have been followed up for at least 2 years. the techniques included enucleation or resection (wedge resection or partial nephrectomy). in 10 patients the indications for kidney-sparing surgery were absolute, while in the remainder the conservative surgical approach was a deliberate choice. the tumours varied in diameter from 1.3 to 12 cm and no metastases were detected on pre-operative screening. one patient died post-operatively from myocardial infarction. in the remaining 30 there were no local recurrences. two patients died from skeletal metastases (1 with bilateral malignancy) and 2 underwent surgery in the post-operative period for haemorrhagic complications. the efficacy of conservative surgery in the local control of renal cancer is an argument in favour of its wider use.
the importance of routine surveillance of distal bypass grafts with duplex scanning: a study of 379 reversed vein grafts. to assess the utility of routine duplex surveillance, 379 infrainguinal reversed vein grafts performed at two independent teaching hospitals were prospectively entered into a surveillance protocol from march 1986 through august 1989. an average of 3.2 postoperative duplex graft flow velocity (gfv) measurements per graft was obtained during a mean follow-up interval of 21 1/2 months. only 2.1% of 280 grafts with gfv measurements greater than 45 cm/sec failed within 6 months of a normal surveillance examination. gfv measurements less than 45 cm/sec in 99 grafts led to arteriography in 75 grafts, identifying 50 stenotic lesions in 48 bypasses (12.6% of series). inflow lesions were present in 5%, outflow stenoses in 2%, and intrinsic graft stenoses in only 6% of bypasses. only 29% of grafts identified as failing by duplex scan were associated with a reduction in ankle-brachial index of greater than 0.15. secondary reconstructions were performed in 48 grafts based on detection of a reduced gfv measurement; all such reconstructions are patent after a mean follow-up of 5 months. duplex surveillance is more reliable in identification of failing vein grafts than is determination of ankle-brachial index.
cd11c (leu-m5) expression characterizes a b-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with features of both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hairy cell leukemia. chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) and hairy cell leukemia (hcl) are two common chronic lymphoproliferative disorders, each having characteristic clinical, morphologic, and immunologic features. phenotypically, cd5 reactivity in cll and cd11c (leu-m5) reactivity in hcl have characterized these two leukemias among b-cell disorders. in this study, we report 14 cases of a novel chronic lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by lymphocytosis and cd11c expression, but morphologically similar to cll. the patients' ages ranged from 46 to 81 years (median 62). eleven had palpable splenomegaly, five with markedly enlarged spleens; only one patient had generalized lymphadenopathy. the white blood cell count ranged from 5.2 to 131.0 x 10(9)/l (median 20.8). the morphologic diagnosis in all cases was cll, with the cells usually having abundant cytoplasm. no morphologic features, of hairy cells were evident; tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase cytochemistry was negative in all cases. bone marrow biopsies were available in 8 of 14. four showed focal nodular infiltrates and two had diffuse infiltrates similar to cll; two showed only minimal interstitial involvement. all cases expressed multiple b-cell markers, and 12 of 14 had monoclonal surface immunoglobulin. the leukemic cells of all cases strongly expressed cd11c, while cd5 was expressed in 7 of 14; only 1 of the 14 cases expressed the lymph node homing receptor, leu-8. this unique group of leukemias appears to represent the malignant transformation of lymphocytes arising from a stage of lymphocyte differentiation between that found in typical cases of cll and that of hcl. cd11c is known to have an important function in cellular adhesion and may be important in determining the pattern of lymphocyte tissue distribution found in this group of patients.
coagulation studies in the syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets. the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic) in the syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets (hellp) is debated. we assessed the occurrence of decompensated and compensated dic (using predefined criteria) in 15 consecutive nulliparous pregnant patients with gestational hypertension combined with the hellp syndrome and in 12 consecutive nulliparous controls with pregnancy induced hypertension (pih) but without the hellp syndrome. a combination of routine coagulation assays revealed the absence of decompensated dic in all studied patients. however, using more specific and sensitive coagulation assays, compensated dic was observed in all hellp patients and in three patients in the control group. the mean values of antithrombin iii, thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes and protein c in the hellp and the control group were 66 vs 87% (p = 0.0004), 21 vs 8 ng/ml (p = 0.0008) and 57 vs 90% (p = 0.0018) respectively. we conclude that hellp patients show evidence of compensated dic which may have pathophysiological significance for the observed organ damage.
serum and csf levels of il-2, sil-2r, tnf-alpha, and il-1 beta in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis: expected lack of clinical utility. we measured interleukin-2 (il-2), soluble il-2 receptor (sil-2r), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha), and interleukin-1 beta (il-1 beta) by elisa in paired sera and csf from 50 chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (cpms) patients during worsening disability, 19 patients with other neurologic diseases (ond), and in sera from 40 healthy volunteers. in the cpms patients, 28% (14/50), 10% (5/50), 16% (8/50), and 6% (3/50) had elevated serum levels of il-2, sil-2r, tnf-alpha and il-1 beta, respectively, compared with healthy controls. the only analyte we detected in the csf was il-2 in 1 cpms patient (1/50, 2%). we also saw elevated serum sil-2r in 16% (3/19) of ond patients. we found no significant difference in mean levels of serum sil-2r between the 3 groups. our study, the largest to date of cpms patients, shows that serum and csf levels of il-2, sil-2r, tnf-alpha, or il-1 beta are not sensitive for, and the serum sil-2r level is not specific for, cpms. therefore, measurement of these analytes will not be clinically useful for therapeutic or prognostic purposes in the majority of cpms patients.
gtpase-activating protein interactions with the viral and cellular src kinases. gtpase-activating protein (gap), which regulates the activities of ras proteins, is implicated in mitogenic signal transduction by growth-factor receptors and oncoproteins with tyrosine kinase activity. oncogenic viral src (p60v-src) encoded in rous sarcoma virus possesses elevated tyrosine kinase activity compared with its nononcogenic normal homolog, cellular src (p60c-src). to examine molecular interactions between gap and the two src kinases, immunoprecipitates of src or gap prepared from cell lystates were resolved by gel electrophoresis and analyzed by an immunoblot procedure with antibodies to gap or src used as probes. results suggest that p60c-src is associated with a complex containing gap in immunoprecipitates from lysates of normal rat and chicken cells. however, gap is not phosphorylated in p60c-src immunoprecipitates subjected to in vitro kinase reactions. by contrast, gap undergoes tyrosyl phosphorylation in vitro when immunoprecipitates of p60v-src prepared from transformed cell lysates are incubated with atp. our findings suggest that p60v-src and p60c-src associate with complexes containing gap and provide a biochemical link between both kinases and gap/ras signal transduction pathways. these results are consistent with the hypothesis that gap has a role in mediating normal functions of p60c-src as well as oncogenic activities of p60v-src.
endoscopic variceal ligation in patients who have failed endoscopic sclerotherapy. endoscopic variceal ligation has been developed as an alternative to endoscopic sclerotherapy. we report a series of 12 men with a history of bleeding esophageal varices who were treated with endoscopic variceal ligation after they had failed sclerotherapy. hemostasis was achieved in all 10 patients who were bleeding at the time of initial endoscopy and again in those who subsequently re-bled. over a follow-up period of up to 22 months, varices have been and remain eradicated in five patients; in four others, a reduction in grade was noted before death (two patients), liver transplant, or loss to follow-up (one patient each); two patients died before they could be re-evaluated, while in the remaining patient, no reduction in variceal grade was noted before loss to follow-up. no complication was recorded after 35 endoscopic treatment sessions involving a total of 245 rubber band ligations. our results indicate that endoscopic variceal ligation may be used with success in patients who fail sclerotherapy.
the value of the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in the treatment of complex perineal fistula. complex perineal fistula and persistent perineal sinus are difficult to treat. we describe our experience with wide excision of the diseased perineum using a combined abdominoperineal approach. ten patients were reconstructed by a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap (n = 7), rectus abdominis muscle flap (n = 2), and omental graft (n = 1). primary healing was achieved in all cases. a median follow-up of 18 months (range 6-54 months) has shown no recurrence of perineal disease or associated abdominal incisional hernia. there were no perioperative deaths. we propose that the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap is indicated if large amounts of perineal skin has to be sacrificed. when less skin is removed a repair with greater omentum or rectus muscle alone is adequate. the abdominoperineal approach together with filling the residual pelvic cavity with well-vascularized tissue allows definitive treatment to be carried out in one stage.
detecting hypertension: screening versus case finding in norway. objective--evaluation of detection of hypertension in adults in the county of nord-trondelag, norway. design--cross sectional survey with clinical follow up examinations. setting--health survey by screening teams from the national health screening service, and examinations by all 106 general practitioners in the county. subjects--during 1984-6, 74,977 persons (88.1% of those aged 20 years and over) participated in the health survey. main outcome measures--hypertension (when assessed by standardised recording and by questionnaires on drug treatment for hypertension) according to the blood pressure thresholds used in the norwegian treatment programme. subjects positive on screening were grouped after clinical examination into treatment groups. results--in all, 2399 subjects were positive for hypertension. before screening 6210 (8.3%) patients reported taking antihypertensive drugs and another 3849 (5.1%) had their blood pressure monitored regularly. all who screened positive were referred to their general practitioner and evaluated according to a standard programme. as a result, drug treatment was started in 406 (0.5%) participants screened and blood pressure monitoring in another 1007 (1.3%). of all patients taking antihypertensive drugs after the screening, 6399 (94.0%) had been diagnosed before screening, and of those whose blood pressure was monitored after the screening, 79.3% had been diagnosed before screening. conclusions--at the blood pressure screening thresholds used, and when hypertension is defined by an overall clinical diagnosis, the results indicate that general practitioners can find and diagnose hypertensive patients with the case finding strategy.
combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for spinal canal surgery in children and adolescents. spinal deformities, especially kyphosis and instability, after laminectomy for tumors and other diseases, are major clinical problems. since 1981, combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for the prevention of postlaminectomy spinal deformities was performed on eight male and two female patients aged two to 26 years (average, 13.9 years). the follow-up period was from six months to seven years and three months (average, three years and five months). two patients died six and ten months postoperatively because of brain metastases (astrocytoma) and lung metastases (neuroblastoma), respectively. good alignment with no instability of the cervical or thoracic spine was obtained for all patients, including the two who died. laminoplasty combined with posterolateral fusion was found to be very effective in preventing the development of spinal deformities after spinal canal surgery for spinal cord tumors or other diseases in children and adolescents.
acetazolamide-responsive vestibulocerebellar syndrome: clinical and oculographic features. five patients who presented with long-standing episodic vertigo had ocular motor signs localizing to the vestibulocerebellum. in each patient, the episodic vertigo was either abolished or markedly decreased in frequency and severity with acetazolamide therapy. in 4, other family members had identical symptoms and signs. this syndrome is 1 of the few treatable causes of chronic episodic vertigo.
two-drug therapy in patients with metastatic germ cell tumors. eighty-two patients with metastatic germ cell tumors (gct) treated with two-drug therapy consisting of etoposide and cisplatin were evaluated for late relapse. good-risk gct was defined using memorial sloan-kettering cancer center (mskcc) criteria. etoposide was given at 100 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 and cisplatin was given at 20 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5; therapy was recycled at 21 days with delays up to 7 days for a leukocyte count of less than 3000/microliters or a platelet count of less than 100,000/microliters. drug doses were not attenuated for myelosuppression. seventy-six of 82 evaluable patients achieved a complete response (cr). seventy-two patients had a cr to chemotherapy alone. forty-six (56%) patients had excision of residual abnormalities: 11 had teratoma in the resected specimen, 31 had necrotic debris or fibrosis, and 4 had a cr after chemotherapy plus complete excision of residual viable gct. six patients had an incomplete response to chemotherapy; one of these patients had unresectable mature teratoma and remains progression-free. the median etoposide dose (+/- standard deviation [sd]) was 500 mg/m2/course (+/- 35 mg/m2) and the median cisplatin dose (+/- sd) was 100 mg/m2/course (+/- 6 mg/m2). nine patients experienced a relapse at 6 to 17.5 months; two patients with nonseminomatous gct were salvaged by chemotherapy and one patient with seminoma was salvaged by chemotherapy and radiation therapy. the three patients who were salvaged by additional therapy are disease-free at 59 to 63 months. seventy-one patients (87%) remain disease-free with a median follow-up time of 63 months (range, 33 to 92 months). no relapses have occurred beyond 17.5 months. etoposide and cisplatin therapy at these doses and schedule results in durable cr without late relapse.
usefulness of verapamil for congestive heart failure associated with abnormal left ventricular diastolic filling and normal left ventricular systolic performance. normal left ventricular systolic performance with impaired left ventricular diastolic filling may be present in a substantial number of patients with congestive heart failure (chf). to evaluate the effect of oral verapamil in this subset, 20 men (mean age 68 +/- 5 years) with chf, intact left ventricular function (ejection fraction greater than 45%) and abnormal diastolic filling (peak filling rate less than 2.5 end-diastolic volumes per second [edv/s]) were studied in a placebo-controlled, double-blind 5-week crossover trial. all patients underwent echocardiography to rule out significant valvular disease, and thallium-201 stress scintigraphy to exclude major active ischemia. compared to baseline values, verapamil significantly improved exercise capacity by 33% (13.9 +/- 4.3 vs 10.7 +/- 3.4 minutes at baseline) and peak filling rate by 30% (2.29 +/- 0.54 vs 1.85 +/- 0.45 edv/s at baseline) (all p less than 0.05). placebo values were 12.3 +/- 4.0 minutes and 2.16 +/- 0.48 edv/s, respectively (difference not significant for both). improvement from baseline in an objective clinico-radiographic heart failure score (scale 0 to 13) was significantly greater with verapamil compared to placebo (median improvement in score: 3 vs 1, p less than 0.01). mean ejection fraction and systolic blood pressure were unchanged from baseline; diastolic blood pressure and heart rate decreased to a small degree. verapamil may have therapeutic efficacy in patients with chf, preserved systolic function and impaired diastolic filling.
minitracheotomy: complications and follow-up with fibreoptic tracheoscopy. complications and changes in tracheal mucosa after minitracheotomy were evaluated in 28 patients. tracheal mucosa was inspected fibreoptically after the insertion of a minitracheotomy cannula, and then at 3-day intervals until the cannula was removed. thereafter, assessments were made every third day until the mucosa was considered normal. three significant complications occurred: mediastinal puncture, paratracheal entrance of the cannula and subcutaneous emphysema. difficulties at insertion of the minitracheotomy cannula were encountered in 15 of 28 patients (54%). air flow detected through the cannula in one patient, and lack of air flow in another patient, were misleading signs of the position of the cannula. passing a suction catheter in three patients and a normal end-tidal carbon dioxide tracing in one patient, were also found to be misleading. the correct position and possible complications could be verified only by fibreoptic tracheoscopy. changes in the tracheal mucosa were independent of the duration of minitracheotomy therapy.
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period, 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit. abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses, including trisomy 18 (n = 16), trisomy 13 (n = 1), triploidy (n = 1) and translocation down's syndrome (n = 2). all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts.
reference values for the mini-mental state examination (mmse) in octo- and nonagenarians the mini-mental state examination (mmse) was used in a population survey of all inhabitants of leiden, the netherlands, over 85 years (n = 1258). in this paper we report on 532 subjects without neurological or psychiatric disease. results show that the median score and lowest quartile cut-off score remain high until the tenth decade (median score = 28, lowest quartile cut-off score = 26). thus age, in itself, is not a major limitation in using the mmse. in this study a comparatively low level of education (the majority had 6 to 7 years of education) did not affect the results on the mmse in a negative way, nor did we find an association with the use of psychoactive drugs.
eclampsia. early detection and hospitalization in women with mild preeclampsia may prevent eclampsia. in the event of severe preeclampsia or eclampsia, delivery is indicated for the benefit of both mother and fetus. thereafter, pathologic changes of preeclampsia and eclampsia, including major multiple organ system dysfunction, undergo complete reversal.
cortical asymmetry of rem sleep eeg following unilateral pontine hemorrhage. a 24-year-old woman with a left pontine hematoma showed marked asymmetry in the eeg of rem sleep, suggesting that a unilateral pontine lesion is sufficient to disrupt normal rem sleep eeg in the ipsilateral hemisphere. other rem sleep characteristics (rapid eye movements, muscle atonia) were unaffected by this lesion.
plasma histamine in patients with chronic renal failure and nephrotic syndrome. plasma histamine concentrations were measured using a commercially available monoclonal antibody radioimmunoassay in 38 patients with nephrotic syndrome, end stage renal failure, those receiving haemodialysis, and those receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis to determine whether histamine may mediate damage to glomerular capillaries and arterial endothelium. plasma histamine concentrations were significantly increased in all four patient groups when compared with those of controls and were the highest in two patients with pruritus. raised plasma histamine concentrations in such patients are consistent with the hypothesis that histamine may contribute to the damage to glomerular capillaries and to arterial endothelium. these effects may be relevant to the pathogenesis of glomerular disease and atherosclerosis. histamine may also contribute to the pathogenesis of pruritus in patients with chronic renal failure.
transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract: prognostic variables and post-operative recurrences. in a retrospective study of 198 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract, post-operative recurrences developed as contralateral tumours in 2.5%, in the ureteric stump after conservative resection in 19% and in the bladder in 36.4%. upper tract recurrences resembled the primary tumours in terms of grade and stage; of the bladder tumours, 89% were similar in grade and 72% similar in stage to the primary tumours. age, sex, grade and stage had no effect on the number of bladder recurrences, but ureteric tumours had significantly more recurrences than renal pelvicaliceal tumours. sex, bladder recurrences and site of primary tumours did not influence survival. thus grade and stage of the primary tumour were the only predictive variables of the final outcome.
prevalence of helicobacter pylori in specific forms of gastritis. further evidence supporting a pathogenic role for h. pylori in chronic nonspecific gastritis. helicobacter pylori colonization of the gastric mucosa is strongly associated with chronic nonspecific gastritis; moreover, there is evidence to suggest that h. pylori may cause this form of gastritis. however, there is little or no information on the prevalence of h. pylori in specific forms of gastritis. our hypothesis was that if h. pylori was pathogenic in chronic nonspecific gastritis, organisms would be found frequently in this type of gastritis but infrequently in specific forms of gastritis. prevalence rates of h. pylori were determined independently in patients with eosinophilic and crohn's gastritis, menetrier's disease, and chronic nonspecific gastritis. the prevalence of h. pylori in patients with chronic nonspecific gastritis was 71%, whereas the organism was not identified in patients with any form of specific gastritis. this finding further supports the accumulating evidence that h. pylori is a primary pathogenic factor in chronic nonspecific gastritis.
changes in intracochlear and intracanalicular nerves after acoustic neurinoma excision confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging. postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings related to the vestibulocochlear and facial nerves within the internal auditory canal were analyzed in acoustic neurinomas. t1- and proton-weighted magnetic resonance images showed that the vestibulocochlear nerves distal to the internal auditory meatus increased in signal intensity after surgical intervention. these nerves were conspicuously enhanced after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylene-triamine-pentaacetic acid. the preserved facial nerves were also markedly enhanced postoperatively. as a possible cause of these findings, we suggest operative disruption of the blood-nerve barrier with ensuing nerve edema, although the operative procedures were carefully carried out using a surgical microscope. the clinical significance of traumatic disruption of the blood-nerve barrier and subsequent nerve edema are discussed from the standpoint of preservation of cochlear nerve function.
epidemiology of heart failure. analysis of 34 years of follow-up of framingham study data provides clinically relevant insights into the prevalence, incidence, secular trends, prognosis, and modifiable risk factors for the occurrence of heart failure in a general population sample. heart failure was found to be highly prevalent, affecting about 1% of persons in their 50s and rising progressively with age to afflict 10% of persons in their 80s. the annual incidence also increased with age, from about 0.2% in persons 45 to 54 years, to 4.0% in men 85 to 94 years, with the incidence approximately doubling with each decade of age. women lagged slightly behind men in incidence at all ages. male predominance was because of a higher rate of coronary heart disease, which confers a fourfold increased risk of heart failure. heart failure, once manifest, was highly lethal, with 37% of men and 33% of women dying within 2 years of diagnosis. the 6-year mortality rate was 82% for men and 67% for women, which corresponded to a death rate fourfold to eightfold greater than that of the general population of the same age. sudden death was a common mode of exitus and accounted for 28% of the cardiovascular deaths in men and 14% in women with heart failure. hypertension and coronary disease were the predominant causes for heart failure and accounted for more than 80% of all clinical events. factors reflecting deteriorating cardiac function were associated with a substantial increase in risk of overt heart failure. these include low vital capacity, sinus tachycardia, and ecg evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy.
flow cytometric analysis of the mechanism of methylmercury cytotoxicity. flow cytometric analysis of murine erythroleukemic cells (melc) exposed in vitro to 2.5 to 7.5 mumol/l (micromolar) methylmercury (mehg) reveals a dose-dependent decrease in the rate of dna synthesis (rate of passage through the s phase of the cell cycle), manifested as the accumulation of most of the cells in the s phase, and a modest accumulation of cells in the g2/m phase of the cycle. light microscopy reveals a progressive increase in chromosomal damage (condensation, pulverization). at or above 10 mumol/l mehg, progression through all the phases of the cell cycle is blocked and mitotic cells are arrested irreversibly in anaphase, with most exhibiting arrangement of chromosomes in a wreathlike ring formation. also the cells exhibit both nuclear propidium iodide (pi) fluorescence (indicative of loss of viability) and concurrent cytoplasmic carboxyfluorescein (cf) fluorescence (viable cells exhibit cf fluorescence and exclude pi). in addition, there is a dose-dependent increase in cellular refractive index (90 degrees light scatter), an apparent decrease in cell volume (axial light loss), and progressive resistance to detergent (np-40)-mediated cytolysis. resistance to detergent-mediated cytolysis is indicative of fixation (protein denaturation, cross-linking, and so on) of the plasma membrane/cytoplasm complex. our findings indicate that dna synthesis is the primary target of mehg cytotoxicity and that apparent targets and degree of cytotoxicity are a complex function of dose.
comparison of delphin and biomedicus pumps. there is an increasing use of centrifugal pump systems for cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) and circulatory assistance. the biomedicus and delphin centrifugal pump systems were tested in two side-by-side, identical in vitro flow loops for blood trauma and flow probe accuracy. blood parameters tested were hemoglobin, hematocrit, lactate dehydrogenase, free plasma hemoglobin, and platelet counts. the delphin pump demonstrated significant increases in plasma hemoglobin levels at the three flow rates tested: 2 l/min (p less than 0.05), 4 l/min (p less than 0.005), and 6 l/min (p less than 0.05). after 4 hr of pumping, the drop in platelet counts was significantly greater in the biomedicus loop as compared with the delphin loop (p less than 0.05) at the 2 l/min and 4 l/min flow rates; however, platelet levels remained within normal ranges in both systems. at 6 l/min, no statistical difference in platelet counts was noted. the flow probe readings were found to deviate by as much as 58% of stopwatch timed flow rate comparisons at low flow rates, but improved to within 10% or better at 6 l/min.
unilateral asterixis. we describe three patients with unilateral asterixis. one diabetic patient with a moderately-sized haematoma in the left putamen initially developed bilateral and symmetrical asterixis, which became confined to the right side as his diabetes mellitus was controlled. two patients showed unilateral asterixis due to haematomas in the contralateral basal ganglia and thalamus, respectively. the present findings indicate that not only lesions of the thalamus but also those of the basal ganglia can cause unilateral asterixis, and bilateral and symmetrical asterixis does not necessarily exclude the presence of a focal mass lesion in the cerebrum.
fatigue. fatigue is a pervasive, protective phenomenon affecting the totality of the individual. assessment and management involve a wide range of activities to address the total human being's physical, psychological, cognitive, and spiritual dimensions. when elimination or neutralization of the effect of an antecedent condition is not an option, redesigning one's life-style may be the primary avenue of fatigue management. this protective mechanism, fatigue, may in fact herald the return of quality and purpose to one's life.
quinine-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation. recurrent disseminated intravascular coagulation occurred in 3 women after ingestion of quinine tablets for cramp. all had circulating quinine-dependent antibodies to platelets and in 2 there was initial evidence of antibody consumption, with low titres that rose steeply over the next few days and remained high for many months.
two-year outcome after angiographically documented myocardial reperfusion for acute coronary occlusion. thrombolysis and angioplasty study group. reperfusion therapy has been clearly shown to decrease the early mortality after acute myocardial infarction, but the impact of this therapy on long-term survival has been less extensively evaluated. this study reports the extended follow-up of a large cohort of 810 patients treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy combined, when considered necessary to maintain or augment infarct vessel patency, with mechanical reperfusion therapies. each patient underwent coronary angiography within 2 hours of the initiation of the thrombolytic infusion. coronary angioplasty was performed in 62% of the patients before hospital discharge and 21% underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery. follow-up was obtained in 96% to a mean of 18.8 months (range, 1.5 to 48 months). all-cause mortality over this period was 3.3%; 2.1% died from cardiac causes. nonfatal reinfarction occurred in 5.1%. although the low event rate limits the validity of statistical comparisons, the patients who survived the follow-up period tended to be younger (56 +/- 10 vs 65 +/- 7 years), to have better predischarge left ventricular function (left ventricular ejection fraction, 52 +/- 11 vs 46 +/- 13%) and to have a lower prevalence of multivessel coronary artery disease (45 vs 67%). this excellent long-term survival may, in part, reflect the exclusion of high-risk patients from enrollment in the thrombolysis and angioplasty in myocardial infarction (tami) studies. it may also be attributable, however, to the frequent use of combined thrombolysis and mechanical revascularization in this population.
hemorrhoidectomy during pregnancy: risk or relief? acute hemorrhoidal crisis can occur in the pregnant female. when medical therapy fails to relieve pain, operative intervention may be necessary. the surgeon, however, may be reluctant to operate due to potential complications to the mother and fetus. from july 1983 to july 1989, hemorrhoidectomy was performed in 25 of 12,455 pregnant women (0.2 percent) who delivered in our institution. twenty-two women were in their third trimester, 80 percent were multiparous, and each had a remote history of hemorrhoidal symptoms, including intermittent pain, bleeding, and protrusion. closed hemorrhoidectomy was performed under local anesthesia. the surgery was directed at removing only symptomatic disease, which included three quadrants in 14 patients, two quadrants in seven patients, and one quadrant in four patients. all patients experienced relief of intractable pain the day after surgery, except one patient who required a hemostatic packing during the immediate post-operative period. there were no other maternal or fetal complications. subsequent follow-up for anorectal disease ranged from 6 months to 6 years. six (24 percent) patients required additional hemorrhoid treatment. hemorrhoidectomy in selected pregnant patients is safe in our experience.
small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. the authors studied the clinical and pathologic features of 38 small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. most were located in the right colon. overlying adenomas were present in 45% and squamous differentiation in 21% of tumors. endocrine differentiation was present in all tumors by at least one method; neuron-specific enolase, dense-core granules, and synaptophysin were present in most cases. seventy-one percent of tumors metastasized to the liver; 64% of patients were dead at five months follow-up. twenty-one poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and undifferentiated carcinomas of the large intestine accessioned during the same period showed less endocrine (7 of 21) and squamous differentiation (1 of 15) and fewer liver metastases (4 of 15) than did small cell carcinomas. among all 59 tumors studied, small cell histologic characteristics correlated better with liver involvement than did endocrine markers or other histologic features. small cell carcinomas of the large intestine are aggressive tumors with a propensity for early liver involvement. although there is a spectrum of squamous, endocrine, and glandular features in large bowel tumors of low degrees of differentiation, the identification of a small cell component appears to be most clinically relevant.
biliary endoprostheses. plastic versus metal stents. plastic biliary endoprostheses relieved malignant obstructive jaundice in 80% to 90% of the patients. the comfort of a completely indwelling endoprosthesis should be offered to all palliatively treated tumor patients, and external-internal catheters should be reserved for the minority of patients who return with reoccluded endoprostheses. these patients have bacterial flora that rapidly contaminates the endoprosthesis and causes encrustations and reocclusions. thus, a second endoprosthesis also would reocclude quickly. the mechanism of reocclusion of plastic and metal endoprostheses is completely different. in plastic endoprostheses, bacterial contamination causes decomposition of the bile and subsequent encrustation. in metal endoprostheses tumor ingrowths between the struts of the stent cause reocclusion. tumor ingrowths were observed in only 6.5% of metal prostheses with a narrow woven mesh (wallstent), whereas prostheses with large distances between the struts (gianturco stent) had ingrowth rates of 19% to 50%. this fact shows that tumor ingrowths can be reduced by narrowing the spaces between the metallic network, and, therefore, improvements in the design of the metal stents should reduce the occlusion rate to or below that of plastic endoprostheses, which currently have a lower encrustation rate. the major advantages of expandable metal prostheses are the relative ease and the minimal trauma of the implantation procedure. the wallstent endoprosthesis, in particular, can be inserted through a 7-f introducer sheath and offers the chance of single-step placement. the 30-day mortality rate, therefore, was only 5%. this is significantly lower than the 30-day mortality rate after insertion of plastic prostheses (15% to 24%). even simple external catheter drainage procedures have a higher reported 30-day mortality rate (27%). expandable metal endoprostheses would be the most useful device if the occlusion rate could be kept under 10% in large series. increasing the length of the endoprostheses to 10 cm in the expanded state could also improve the long-term patency rates.
reoperation for myocardial revascularization using the internal mammary artery. from october 1984 up to february 1989, 40 patients had "redo" myocardial revascularizations using one or both internal mammary arteries (ima) in over 1000 cases operated upon in our department for coronary bypass grafts. thirty-one patients had a further operation for unstable angina difficult to control with drugs. mean interval of recurrence of angina after previous surgery was 48.5 months for all the cases, but the mean interval before the second bypass operation was 68 months. severe disease of previous vein grafts was the reason for surgery in 25 patients and progressive atherosclerosis in native coronary arteries in 15 patients. twenty-one patients had a single mammary artery; both mammary arteries were used in 19. two cases had endarterectomy on left anterior descending (lad). four patients had peroperative acute myocardial infarction (ami), 3 a low cardiac output syndrome, postoperative bleeding occurred in 3 cases and wound infection in one case. an intraaortic balloon pump was used preoperatively in one case and coming off bypass in two others. one patient died on the second day postoperatively from cardiac arrest following bilateral pneumothorax. there were no late deaths. at a mean follow-up of 20.5 months, 28 patients are free of symptoms but 11 are complaining of angina, 5 during exercise and 6 at rest. an exercise test was positive in 8 patients.
review of hepatic imaging and a problem-oriented approach to liver masses. we believe that imaging of the liver is complicated. the sporadic appearance of incidental benign lesions and variability in scanning techniques, equipment and artifacts add difficulties to the evaluation of liver masses. therefore we emphasize the need to define the problem for which the patient is being imaged. this information helps in choosing the procedure of choice and the technique needed to give the most expedient, accurate answer. this will also help apply the lowest risk and most cost-efficient care. imaging algorithms vary depending on the suspected pathological conditions. dynamic bolus-enhanced ct is the modality of choice in most situations. tc99m sulfur-colloid liver-spleen scans are helpful in patients with suspected fnh, and tc99m-tagged-rbc-spect scans are recommended to confirm cavernous hemangiomas. cysts are easily confirmed by us. although mri is competitive with ct, it has not become a primary modality because of cost, availability, patient selection and variability of scanner capabilities among the many manufacturers and models. it is hard to predict what future development of imaging techniques will bring. many feel that significant advances have plateaued. time and money will more likely be concentrated on improving image resolution, speed of scanning and ability to transfer this information to sites outside of the radiology department. in addition to faster scanning, we expect to soon have available safe intravenous and enteric contrast agents for mri. certainly this will lead to a new round of investigations to compare mri with ct scanning.
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium, a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) recently released in the united states, was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients, with one associated death. signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug. the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities. in one patient, fatal, fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug. review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy. it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. careful patient monitoring is advised, and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop.
escherichia coli in patients with renal scarring: genotype and phenotype of gal alpha 1-4gal beta-, forssman- and mannose-specific adhesins. the frequency of escherichia coli with gal alpha 1-4gal beta-specific adhesins is reduced among children who develop renal scars. the adhesion-negative phenotype may be due to the absence of the pap dna sequences which encode these adhesins or to a phase variation event induced by in vitro culture. in the present study the frequency of pap and pil homologous dna was determined by dot blot analysis with probes specific for the respective sequence using e. coli strains from children with recurrent pyelonephritis with and without renal scarring. the frequency of pap was 79% in the strains isolated from the nonscarring group compared with 39% in the strains from the scarring group (p less than 0.001). the gal alpha 1-4gal beta phenotype was expressed by 89% of the pap-positive strains from the nonscarring group compared with 71% in the scarring group (p less than 0.05). in addition 13 of 77 of the pap-positive e. coli strains agglutinated sheep erythrocytes but not the gal alpha 1-4gal beta latex beads; a reaction attributed to reactivity with the forssman glycolipid. dna sequences homologous with pil were found in 95% of all strains and there was no significant difference between the nonscarring and the scarring groups. the low frequency of gal alpha 1-4gal beta specific strains in the scarring group was therefore due to the absence of pap-homologous dna sequences and to a reduced rate of phenotypic expression among pap-positive scarring strains. there was no support for a relationship between type 1 fimbriae and renal scarring.
hemodynamic effects of synchronous high-frequency jet ventilation in mitral regurgitation. we tested the hypothesis that increases in intrathoracic pressure (itp), by decreasing the pressure gradient for anterograde left ventricular (lv) ejection, should augment cardiac output in acute mitral regurgitation (mr). in a pentobarbital-anesthetized closed-chest canine model, lv stroke volume (sllv) was measured by integration from an aortic flow probe signal. mr was induced by a regurgitant ring. itp was elevated over apnea by means of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation (ippv), asynchronous (asynch) high-frequency jet ventilation (hfjv), and cardiac cycle-specific (synch) hfjv. ippv resulted in the greatest increase in itp. mr caused a fall in svlv and a rise in lv filling pressure that were not altered by ippv. compared with ippv or apnea, both asynch and synch hfjv increased svlv and reduced lv filling pressures (p less than 0.05). systolic synch hfjv induced a greater increase in svlv (32%) than diastolic synch hfjv (26%) despite similar ventilatory settings. our data suggest that when lv contractility is normal but mr impairs forward flow, cardiac cycle-specific increases in itp will augment forward flow.
granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma. their distinction with the use of immunohistochemical methods. granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma can mimic each other both clinically and histologically. to develop criteria useful in resolving problem cases, the authors compared the reactivities of these conditions (nine cases of granulomatous prostatitis and six cases of poorly differentiated carcinoma) with a panel of antibodies to cytokeratin (ae1/3), prostate-specific antigen (psa), prostatic acid phosphatase (pap), lysozyme, antimacrophage m, and leukocyte common antigen (lca). in granulomatous prostatitis, histiocytes were not immunoreactive for pap, psa, or cytokeratin; however, histiocytes reacted to lysozyme in nine of nine cases, antimacrophage m in seven of nine cases, and lca in one of nine cases. tumor cells from all six carcinoma cases reacted with pap, psa, and cytokeratin; all failed to react with lysozyme, lca, and antimacrophage m. the authors conclude that granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated carcinoma can be reliably distinguished with immunohistochemical methods.
endoscopic nasobiliary catheter drainage in biliary and pancreatic disease. nasobiliary catheter drainage was first introduced a decade ago. it provides drainage of the biliary system and facilitates interventional procedures of the biliary and pancreatic system, both for therapy and research purposes. the present review addresses the designs of nasobiliary catheters, the technique of insertion, and indications for drainage, with special emphasis on the management of bile duct stones and associated complications. its potential application in biliary research is discussed further. certain caveats in the performance of nasobiliary drainage are also included. all of these emphasize the need for this technique to be included in therapeutic endoscopy training.
infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiency with hepatomuscular symptoms and sudden death. physiopathological approach to carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiencies. reported cases of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii (cpt ii) deficiency are characterized only by a muscular symptomatology in young adults although the defect is expressed in extra-muscular tissues as well as in skeletal muscle. we describe here a cpt ii deficiency associating hypoketotic hypoglycemia, high plasma creatine kinase level, heart beat disorders, and sudden death in a 3-mo-old boy. cpt ii defect (-90%) diagnosed in fibroblasts is qualitatively similar to that (-75%) of two "classical" cpt ii-deficient patients previously studied: it resulted from a decreased amount of cpt ii probably arising from its reduced biosynthesis. consequences of cpt ii deficiency studied in fibroblasts differed in both sets of patients. an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids was found in the proband but not in patients with the "classical" form of the deficiency. the metabolic and clinical consequences of cpt ii deficiency might depend, in part, on the magnitude of residual cpt ii activity. with 25% residual activity cpt ii would become rate limiting in skeletal muscle but not in liver, heart, and fibroblasts. as observed in the patient described herein, cpt ii activity ought to be more reduced to induce an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids in these tissues.
atrial fibrillation in the elderly: management update. non-valvular atrial fibrillation is associated with a markedly increased risk of embolic stroke in elderly persons. evidence is accumulating that anticoagulation with warfarin or aspirin may be effective in reducing this risk.
coinheritance of two mild defects in low density lipoprotein receptor function produces severe hypercholesterolemia. a family is described in which the probands, twin girls, had severe hypercholesterolemia suggestive of familial hypercholesterolemia (fh). the mother of the twins had normal plasma cholesterol levels, and the father had only moderate hypercholesterolemia. moreover, low density lipoprotein (ldl) binding studies in cultured fibroblasts and isolated lymphocytes in the parents failed to reveal significantly reduced ldl receptor activity that is typical of fh heterozygotes. turnover studies of ldl in the parents, however, revealed low fractional clearance rates (fcrs) for ldl. in cultured fibroblasts and isolated lymphocytes from the twin probands, binding of normal ldl was half normal or less. ldl turnover studies in the twins revealed a marked reduction in fcrs for ldl. when the twins were treated with lovastatin, however, fcrs for ldl increased significantly, suggesting enhancement of ldl receptor activity. this finding along with ldl binding studies in the cultured cells infer that the twins did not have homozygous fh. in addition, all family members tested negative for familial defective apolipoprotein-b-100, and ldl isolated from the mother and twins showed normal binding to normal fibroblasts. the overall data suggest that the severe hypercholesterolemia in the offspring was due to inheritance of mild to moderate defects of ldl receptor function from both parents. although the latter defects could not be detected with certainty by in vitro tests in each parent, they were evident from ldl turnover tests. coinheritance of these defects apparently produced severe hypercholesterolemia in the offspring.
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement. first case of c9 deficiency in europe. we describe the first cases, to our knowledge, of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family, of which two members--one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels--experienced bacterial meningitis. the index patient, a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years, presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis. no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found. complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component, while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity (measured using the ch50 assay) was only slightly reduced. a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patient's healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister, his son (who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis), and his niece, consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency. this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial, especially neisserial, infections.
a randomized, double-blind trial of nystatin therapy for the candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome background. candida albicans infection has been proposed to cause a chronic hypersensitivity syndrome characterized by fatigue, premenstrual tension, gastrointestinal symptoms, and depression. long-term antifungal therapy has been advocated as treatment for the syndrome, which is most often diagnosed in women with persistent or recurrent candida vaginitis. methods. to determine the efficacy of nystatin therapy for presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome, we conducted a 32-week randomized, double-blind, cross-over study using four different combinations of nystatin or placebo given orally or vaginally in 42 premenopausal women who met present criteria for the syndrome and had a history of candida vaginitis. the outcomes studied were the changes from base line in scores for vaginal, systemic, and overall symptoms and in the results of standardized psychological tests. results. the three active-treatment regimens (oral and vaginal nystatin, oral nystatin and vaginal placebo, and oral placebo and vaginal nystatin) and the all-placebo regimen significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms (p less than 0.001), but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms significantly more than placebo. on average, the scores for systemic symptoms improved 25 percent with the three active-treatment regimens and 23 percent with the all-placebo regimen, a difference of only 2 percent (95 percent confidence interval, -3 to 7 percent). as expected, the three active-treatment regimens were more effective than placebo in relieving vaginal symptoms (p less than 0.001). all four regimens reduced psychological symptoms and global indexes of distress; there were no significant differences among the treatment regimens. conclusions. in women with presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome, nystatin does not reduce systemic or psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo. consequently, the empirical recommendation of long-term nystatin therapy for such women appears to be unwarranted.
characterization of epidermal growth factor receptor in normal and neoplastic human endometrium. growth factors, including epidermal growth factor (egf), have been implicated in the growth of several types of cancer. this study compares egf receptors in normal and neoplastic endometrium. membrane fractions were isolated from surgical specimens. radioreceptor assays demonstrated the presence of receptors with a dissociation constant of 0.64 nmol/l in normal endometrium. affinity cross-linking revealed receptor molecular weight of 150 to 170 kilodaltons (kd). a survey of samples (n = 37) revealed progressive decrease of egf receptors in cancers of increasing grade: grade 1-2 adenocarcinoma decreased 34% from control (n = 6, p less than 0.01), whereas grade 3 adenocarcinoma decreased 90% (n = 7, p less than 0.01) and sarcoma decreased by 72% (n = 3, p less than 0.01). the dissociation constant and molecular weight of the receptor in neoplastic endometrium did not differ significantly from normal. the inverse relationship with grade suggests receptor alteration or down regulation by hormones and/or growth factors.
a rare cause of colitis--brucella melitensis. report of a case. documentation of gastrointestinal lesions in brucella infections is sparse. a case of brucella melitensis type 3 infection accompanied by erosive lesions of the colon, observed by endoscopy and histopathologic examination, is reported. such gastrointestinal lesions have not been described since 1934. before 1934 only postmortem observations are recorded.
questionable role of cns radioprophylaxis in the therapeutic management of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma with meningeal extension. a series of 15 consecutive children with head and neck nonorbital rhabdomyosarcoma (rmsa) with meningeal extension were prospectively treated with chemotherapy consisting of adriamycin (doxorubicin; adria laboratory, columbus, oh) (adm), vincristine (vcr), cyclophosphamide (cpm), and dactinomycin (dact) followed by radiotherapy (60 gy) to the primary tumor volume, along with intrathecal methotrexate (it mtx). thirteen of 15 responded to preradiation chemotherapy. four of 13 relapsed. relapse occurred at the level of the primary tumor in three of four. the 3-year progression-free survival (pfs) was 59%, similar to that achieved in a previous series treated with a comparable therapeutic approach that also included whole-brain radiotherapy as a prophylaxis of possible occult meningeal seeding. it is concluded that cns prophylaxis with radiotherapy is questionable in the management of childhood rmsa with meningeal extension.
longitudinal study of women with negative cervical smears according to endocervical status a longitudinal study of 20,222 women who received negative cervical smear reports in 1987 showed that the incidence of definite or equivocal cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) was not significantly different between those whose first smear lacked an endocervical component and those whose smear included an endocervical component. the incidence of definite cytological evidence of cin was significantly lower in women whose first smear did not include an endocervical component. it is concluded that women whose smears are reported as negative but lack an endocervical component should not be rescreened any earlier than women with negative smears that include an endocervical component.
photic sneeze reflex in nephropathic cystinosis photic induced sneeze is a reflex that occurs in certain individuals after exposure to bright light. cystinosis is an autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism in which nonprotein cystine accumulates within lysosomes. the pathognomonic ocular manifestation of cystinosis is corneal crystal deposition. we observed photic induced sneezes during ophthalmoscopic examination in five of 19 patients with nephropathic cystinosis (26%). we report on this observation and discuss possible pathophysiological mechanisms for photic induced sneezing in cystinosis.
hepatocellular carcinoma presenting with pyrexia and leukocytosis: report of five cases. in the past 26 years we have encountered five patients with primary liver malignancy clinically characterized by high remittent fever and leukocytosis mimicking liver abscess. two patients underwent exploratory laparotomy, and drainage was carried out in another. the clinical courses went rapidly downhill. the liver was cirrhotic in two patients. the interior of the main mass was almost totally necrotic in four cases. histologically, the malignant cells in the main portion resembled sarcoma, but in some areas cells appeared epithelial with eosinophilic cytoplasm and were in a trabecular arrangement, except for one case not subjected to autopsy in which histological study was inadequate because of extensive necrosis. it seems that these neoplasms were very poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas rather than combinations of sarcoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. these patients, therefore, may represent a distinct clinicopathological type of hepatocellular carcinoma that is very rare in japan but perhaps more common in south africa, where similar cases have been clinically described in larger numbers.
deterioration following delay in performing femoral angioplasty. it is not uncommon for a delay to occur between assessment arteriography and angioplasty attempt. we reviewed retrospectively the arteriograms of 61 patients where such a delay occurred to assess progression of superficial femoral artery (sfa) disease in this interval. a mean delay of 14.6 days (range 2-60 days) occurred between arteriogram and angioplasty attempt. arteriographic deterioration was found in six of 61 patients (9.8%) and in three this precluded angioplasty. of the six patients four had initial arteriography via the same side as the sfa disease whilst two had arteriography via the contralateral femoral approach. we discuss the aetiology of this phenomenon and suggestions are made to reduce its incidence.
surgical management of exophytic chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors of childhood. sixteen children underwent 18 operations for radical resection of chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors. the clinical presentation correlated with age: infants under 1 year of age presented with macrocephaly, failure to thrive, and severe visual failure; children aged 1 to 5 years predominantly had precocious puberty with mild visual deficits; and older children (greater than 5 years old) had slowly progressive loss of vision. all three infants had biologically aggressive tumors in spite of low-grade histology, and died from progressive tumor growth. eleven of the 13 children aged 1 year or over are alive and well, without clinical or radiographic evidence of disease progression, 4 months to 4 1/2 years following surgery. six of these patients, with a follow-up period of 10 months to 4 1/2 years (mean 27 months), have had no adjuvant therapy following radical surgical resection. the authors conclude that: 1) radical surgical resection of chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors can be performed with minimal morbidity; 2) radical resection may delay the time to disease progression in older children and postpone the need for irradiation; 3) resection of postirradiation recurrent tumors may provide neurological improvement and long-lasting clinical remission; and 4) chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors of infancy are aggressive neoplasms that require multimodality therapy.
class ii-restricted t cell responses in theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus-induced demyelinating disease. iv. identification of an immunodominant t cell determinant on the n-terminal end of the vp2 capsid protein in susceptible sjl/j mice. theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (tmev)-induced demyelinating disease serves as a relevant animal model of human multiple sclerosis. myelin damage induced by tmev infection appears to be immune mediated. disease susceptibility correlates best with the temporal development of chronic, high levels of tmev-specific, mhc class ii-restricted delayed-type hypersensitivity (dth) responses. we have proposed a model wherein these responses result in cns demyelination via a macrophage-mediated terminal nonspecific bystander response. as virus-specific dth responses appear to be intimately involved in the pathogenicity of cns demyelination, it is critical to determine the specificity of these responses so that effector t cells specific for potential pathogenic epitopes can be targeted to serve as the focus of specific immunoregulatory processes. in the current study, the capsid protein specificity of the tmev-susceptible sjl/j and tmev-resistant c57bl/6 mouse strains was examined. dth and tprlf responses in both infected and immunized sjl/j mice were found to be predominantly directed toward the vp2 capsid protein, specifically to an epitope(s) contained within the n-terminal 150 amino acids of vp2. this same epitope was also found to be dominant in priming sjl/j mice for responses to challenge with intact virions. in contrast, the t cell-mediated responses of tmev-resistant c57bl/6 mice did not show preferential reactivity towards vp2, because all three major capsid proteins (vp1, vp2, and vp3) elicited responses with essentially equal potency. the relationship of the restricted vp2 t cell epitope to predicted neutralizing antibody sites on the vp2 protein is discussed as is the potential use of this epitope for prevention and/or treatment of tmev-induced demyelinating disease via the induction of epitope-specific tolerance.
predictive value of tumor estrogen and progesterone receptor levels in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer treated with toremifene. the predictive value of estrogen receptor (er) concentrations was evaluated in a group of 113 postmenopausal patients with estrogen-receptor-positive (er greater than 7 fmol/mg protein) advanced breast cancer. in 103 patients, tumors were also sampled for progesterone receptor (pgr) determination. all patients were treated with toremifene, a novel antiestrogen, 60 mg daily. the median er in 51 responders was 78 fmol/mg protein, and in 62 nonresponders, 51 fmol/mg protein; the median pgr levels were 40 and 37 fmol/mg protein, respectively. the response rate in patients with er less than 50 fmol/mg protein was 38%, and 51% in the group with er greater than 50 fmol/mg protein (not significant [ns]). the response rate in patients with pgr less than 10 fmol/mg protein was 42%, and in patients with greater than 10 fmol/mg protein, 44%. the duration of response in patients with er greater than 50 fmol/mg protein was significantly longer than with lower er levels (p = 0.002). pgr was not associated with the duration of response. in cox's multiple regression analysis, er was an independent prognostic factor (p = 0.005) for response duration. thus, the er concentration of tumor tissue predicts the duration of response but not the response rate to toremifene in patients with advanced breast cancer. the pgr status does not predict the response rate or the duration of response.
co-trimoxazole for childhood febrile illness in malaria-endemic regions. the efficacy of co-trimoxazole for the treatment of plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia in children younger than 5 years of age was evaluated in malawi. 46 children with p falciparum parasitaemia, 37% of whom also met clinical criteria for a diagnosis of acute lower respiratory tract infection, were treated with 20 mg/kg co-trimoxazole twice daily for five days. parasitaemia (mean clearance time 2.7 days) and symptoms were rapidly abolished and improvement was maintained during follow-up for 14 days. co-trimoxazole may be an effective single treatment for febrile illness in young children in areas where malaria is endemic, resources are few, and diagnosis must rely on clinical findings alone.
the relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia. a statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus. a review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies. a significant predominance of men, with mean age at onset of 50 years, was observed. pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms, whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms. lymphoreticular malignancies, especially kaposi's sarcoma, are most frequently observed. the majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection. the majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus. in some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated. overall, 37 of the 60 patients, or 61%, had a neoplasm of the immune system.
the patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing. one hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years. eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis. graded according to the knee-rating system of the hospital for special surgery, there were eighteen excellent, fifty-three good, eighteen fair, and eleven poor results. at the most recent follow-up, twenty-nine knees (29 per cent), nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis, were still painful in the patellofemoral area. the height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively. small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain, regardless of sex, age, or level of activity. it seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain, are more than 160 centimeters tall, weigh more than sixty kilograms, and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation.
sleepwalking precipitated by treatment of sleep apnea with nasal cpap. a 33-year-old man with a long history of snoring, observed apneic episodes, and excessive daytime sleepiness, underwent all-night polysomnography, which demonstrated severe obstructive sleep apnea. during the nasal cpap trial, two episodes of sleepwalking were observed during a period of delta sleep rebound.
adenocarcinoma in barrett's esophagus. a clinicopathologic study of 65 cases. the natural history of barrett's esophagus, particularly the prevalence and incidence of malignant changes in it, remains controversial. furthermore the prognosis of surgically treated patients with carcinoma in barrett's esophagus has not been elucidated fully. to examine these and other issues, the records of 65 patients with carcinoma in barrett's esophagus presenting at the lahey clinic medical center from january 1973 to january 1989 were reviewed. during this period, 241 patients with documented barrett's esophagus were seen, for a prevalence of carcinoma of 27%. adenocarcinoma in barrett's esophagus accounted for 30% of the surgically treated carcinomas of the thoracic esophagus during this period. all but four of these patients were men. symptoms of chronic reflux were present in less than one half of the patients and dysphagia was often the presenting symptom. in eight patients the carcinoma was discovered on routine surveillance endoscopy, and in four patients progression of disease from benign columnar epithelium to dysplasia to carcinoma was documented. tumors developed in six patients who had undergone previous antireflux surgery, and in four other patients a second carcinoma developed in residual barrett's epithelium after a previous resection. of the 65 patients, 61 (94%) were considered to have operable disease, all of whom underwent resection. two patients (3.3%) died within 30 days of operation. the resected specimens were staged as follows: stage 0, 4; stage i, 10; stage ii, 17; stage iii, 25; stage iv, 4. of the resected specimens, 73% showed areas of dysplasia adjacent to the tumor. the overall adjusted actuarial 5-year survival rate was 23.7%. the 3-year survival rate was 100% for patients with stage 0 carcinoma, 85.7% for patients with stage i carcinoma, 53.6% for patients with stage iia carcinoma, 45% for patients with stage iib carcinoma, 25.2% for patients with stage iii carcinoma, and 0% for patients with stage iv carcinoma. the premalignant nature of barrett's esophagus requires endoscopic surveillance to detect early carcinoma because symptoms often occur late or are absent. antireflux surgery does not protect against the development of carcinoma. all of the barrett's epithelium must be resected because a second carcinoma may develop in residual columnar epithelium. severe dysplasia should be considered an indication for resection. although operability and resectability rates are high, long-term survival is not. early detection is mandatory if long-term survival is to be achieved.
complications in the use of sodium hypochlorite during endodontic treatment. report of three cases. in endodontic treatment, solutions of sodium hypochlorite are widely used as an irrigating agent. it is an effective solvent of both necrotic and vital tissues, which makes it toxic to the surrounding tissues. complications are rarely reported. nevertheless, the acute symptoms caused by the toxic reaction must not be underestimated. causes, treatment, and prevention of complications of sodium hypochlorite use are discussed, and three case reports are presented.
impairment of vertical motion detection and downgaze palsy due to rostral midbrain infarction. we present two cases with acute onset of vertical gaze palsy, mainly consisting of impaired downgaze and apraxia of downward head movements, together with neuropsychological deficits (hypersomnia, impaired attention and disorders of memory and affective control). ct and mri revealed bilateral post-ischaemic lesions in the dorsomedial thalamus and the mesodiencephalic junction, dorsomedial to the red nucleus, thus being restricted to the territory of the posterior thalamosubthalamic paramedian artery, which includes the region of the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle as the main premotor nucleus for the generation of vertical saccades. in our patients, oculographic examination with electro-oculography and magnetic search coil recording showed severe impairment of downward more than upward saccades and only minor deficits of vertical pursuit and the vestibulo-ocular reflex. visual functions were normal, with one exception: a psychophysical test of motion perception revealed a significant deficit in the detection of vertical movements. this could be due to a central adaptive mechanism which, in order to minimize oscillopsia, might elevate thresholds for vertical motion perception in cases of vertical gaze palsy. as an alternative explanation, lesions within the midbrain tegmentum could have damaged subcortical visual pathways involved in motion perception.
suddenly symptomatic brain tumors at altitude. high-altitude cerebral edema can present with a wide variety of neurologic manifestations; these symptoms resolve with descent. the persistence of neurologic symptoms after descent suggests an intracranial lesion. brain tumors suddenly becoming symptomatic at altitude have not been reported previously. we report three cases of previously unsuspected brain tumors that suddenly became symptomatic at high altitudes.
infarct of the conus medullaris simulating a spinal cord tumor: case report. a 71-year-old woman had the sudden onset of a neurogenic bladder and a stepwise increase in paraparesis that left her unable to stand or walk. magnetic resonance imaging showed what appeared to be a tumor in the conus medullaris. after laminectomy, the lesion was localized by ultrasound examination, and a biopsy was performed. the deficits remained unchanged postoperatively. microscopic examination of the biopsy specimen showed necrosis and pathologic changes consistent with infarction of the conus medullaris. an anomalous arterial supply of the conus medullaris is the most likely cause of this unusual problem. the patient gradually regained her ability to walk, but the neurogenic bladder persists.
effects of discontinuation of phenytoin, carbamazepine, and valproate on concomitant antiepileptic medication. we report a prospective, controlled study of the effects of the reduction and discontinuation of phenytoin (pht) (22 patients), carbamazepine (cbz) (23 patients), and valproate (vpa) (25 patients) with concomitant antiepileptic drugs (aeds). the principal changes in the serum concentrations of concomitant aeds were (a) phenobarbital (pb) concentrations decreased by a mean of 30% on discontinuation of pht; (b) total cbz concentrations increased by a mean of 48% and free cbz concentrations increased by a mean of 30% on discontinuation of pht, with no change in cbz-10, 11-epoxide (cbz-e) concentrations; (c) vpa concentrations increased by a mean of 19% on discontinuation of pht; (d) vpa concentrations increased by a mean of 42% on discontinuation of cbz; (e) ethosuximide (esm) concentrations increased by a mean of 48% on discontinuation of cbz; (f) pht concentrations decreased by a mean of 26% on discontinuation of cbz; (g) pht free fraction decreased from a mean of 0.11 to 0.07 on discontinuation of vpa; and (h) the mean concentrations of total and free cbz increased by a mean of 10 and 16%, respectively, on vpa discontinuation, with a concomitant mean 24% decrease in total cbz-e and a 22% decrease in free cbz-e. apart from the decrease in pb concentrations on pht discontinuation, all significant changes had occurred by 1 week after the end of aed discontinuation. the implication for clinical practice is that a serum aed concentration at this time reflects the new steady state. free concentrations did not add any clinically useful information to that gained from analysis of total serum concentrations.
radioimmunoscintigraphy using iodine-131-anti-cea monoclonal antibodies and thallium-201 scintigraphy in medullary thyroid carcinoma: a case report. this case report demonstrates the use of thallium-201 (201tl) scans versus iodine-131- (131l) anti-cea f(ab')2 scans in a patient with high serum cea levels due to metastases of medullary thyroid carcinoma in the suprarenal region and sacroiliacal region. scintigraphy using monoclonal antibodies directed against cea showed a higher tumor uptake (0.26% dose and 0.64% dose, respectively) than a thallium scan and is believed to be promising for future radiotherapeutic applications.
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age. argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains; however, its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial. this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains, spider angiomas, epidermal nevi, and lentigines. the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed. good to excellent results (moderate to complete clearing) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure. hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children, all of whom had undressed wounds; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively.
gastro-oesophageal reflux during elective laparoscopy. an oesophageal ph electrode was used to record gastro-oesophageal reflux in 73 women who had elective laparoscopy for various gynaecological procedures. no refluxes were recorded during the 63 procedures from which results could be analysed; the upper 95% confidence limit from this observation is 3 in 63 (4.8%). two of the excluded women refluxed during episodes of hiccough that occurred shortly after induction of anaesthesia. tracheal intubation may be required during laparoscopy, although the need to protect against the possibility of aspiration of gastric contents may not be a valid reason unless, with the same logic, it is suggested that all patients who hiccough should be intubated.
early gastric cancer. endoscopic diagnosis of depth of invasion. in order to decide on a treatment strategy against gastric cancers, an accurate preoperative evaluation of the depth of cancer invasion is essential. preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of the depth of invasion was compared with pathological results of the resected specimen in 206 early gastric cancers and 32 early-like advanced gastric cancers. the endoscopic distinction between early and early-like advanced cancers was correctly made in 83.6% of the cases. among the early gastric cancers, mucosal and submucosal invasion was correctly presumed in 71.9% of the cases. when the tumor was an elevated type, or located in the antrum, the endoscopic diagnosis tended to be deeper than the true depth. the size of tumor contributed little to the depth diagnosis. pathomorphological changes on the tips of converging folds were the important clue for diagnosing depth.
application of coronary angioplasty to the septal perforator arteries. significant coronary artery disease affecting the septal perforator arteries can cause anginal pain, rhythm disturbances, or septal infarction. however, since these vessels are usually inaccessible to coronary bypass surgery, there is a tendency among angiographers and angioplasters to overlook lesions of the septal perforator arteries. our experience suggests that if medical treatment is not sufficient to treat clinical manifestations resulting from septal perforator disease, then coronary angioplasty can be considered a therapeutic alternative for revascularization. we herein present 11 patients who underwent coronary angioplasty of a major septal artery and discuss angiographic and technical aspects of the procedure.
pathological changes in levator palpebrae superioris muscle treated with botulinum toxin in a case of carotico-cavernous fistula. we describe the case of a patient with carotico-cavernous fistula who had botulinum toxin a to induce a protective ptosis 4.5 days before death. the levator palpebrae superioris muscle from both sides and the superior rectus muscle from the injected side were obtained for examination. the preserved samples were stained with haematoxylin and eosin, martius scarlet blue, glees, s100, dehydrogenase, atpase, and toluidine blue as well as being examined by electron microscopy. inflammation and oedema were found that were probably due to the carotico-cavernous fistula. axonal and some myelin sheath damage were also seen.
the use of ultrasound in evaluating neurologic diseases of childhood. real-time cranial sonography, intracranial doppler, and neuromuscular sonography are the sonographic techniques that are applicable to the neurologic evaluation of infants and children. although limited by age, specificity, and operator skill and experience, the advantages of real-time cranial and intracranial doppler sonography make them useful techniques in the evaluation of the young infant, particularly in the serial assessment of ventricular size and in the study of the critically ill infant. the use of neuromuscular sonography in the assessment of the floppy infant and in the guidance of biopsy makes this an increasingly valuable tool.
treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin. two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects. one patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids. the fourth patient had a flare-up of his crohn's disease after starting isotretinoin.
optimizing the exercise test for pharmacological investigations exercise trials in cardiology are often hindered by inconsistent approaches to exercise testing. these inconsistencies include the choice of exercise protocol, exercise end points, points of analysis, and absence or misuse of gas exchange data. gas exchange techniques greatly enhance the accuracy with which cardiopulmonary function is assessed by exercise. commonly used protocols are not always appropriate for all patients or all studies. both cardiovascular disease and the exercise protocol can have an important impact on the relation between changes in work rate and oxygen uptake. ramp protocols appear to offer the greatest promise for assessing cardiopulmonary function. analyzing hemodynamic and gas exchange responses at several points submaximally, in addition to those at peak exercise, can add important information concerning the efficacy of a drug. a great deal of confusion continues to hinder the application of the gas exchange anaerobic threshold, and many of the commonly used testing end points are not reliable.
rapid inactivation and phosphorylation of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii in y-79 human retinoblastoma cells after exposure to phorbol ester. pyroglutamyl peptidase ii (ec 3.4.19.-), a membrane-bound metalloproteinase, is a highly specific trh-degrading enzyme. exposure of y-79 human retinoblastoma cells to 12-0-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (tpa) decreased the activity of this enzyme in a time- and concentration-dependent manner (ic50 5 x 10(-9) m). after 15 min of tpa treatment, only 10% of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii activity remained. tpa treatment did not affect the activity of the cytosolic enzyme pyroglutamyl peptidase i (ec 3.4.19.3) or the membrane-bound enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase iv (ec 3.4.19.3). pretreatment of the cells with the protein kinase c inhibitors h-7 or sphingosine prevented the inactivation of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii by tpa. the time course of the tpa-mediated effect paralleled the time course of translocation and activation of protein kinase c in this cell line. immunoblot analysis demonstrated that inactivation of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii was not due to dissociation or internalization of this enzyme molecule. incubation of tpa-activated y-79 cell membranes with gamma-[32p]-atp followed by immunoprecipitation revealed a time-dependent phosphorylation of a 48 kilodalton subunit of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii. these studies indicate that the phorbol ester effect is mediated by protein kinase c, and reveal a mechanism of potentiation of the action of trh at its target sites.
a study of the seasonal variation of migraine. available evidence supports the contention that migraine involves a disturbance in serotonin function. several parameters of serotonin function in humans have been found to vary seasonally and may underlie the seasonal fluctuations observed in many clinical neuropsychiatric phenomena that are thought to involve serotonin dysfunction. we therefore postulated that migraine headaches might also vary seasonally and examined the admissions to our hospital over a 20-year period with a primary diagnosis of migraine. peak admissions were found to occur most frequently in the spring for females in comparison to males (p less than or equal to 0.04, chi-square). the implications of these findings are discussed.
cardioprotective effects of authentic nitric oxide in myocardial ischemia with reperfusion. background and methods: the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of nitric oxide (no), believed to be endothelium-derived relaxing factor on reperfusion injury after myocardial ischemia (mi). the effects of no were investigated in a 6-hr model of mi with reperfusion in open-chest, anesthetized cats. a solution containing no was infused iv starting 30 min after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, continuing through reperfusion 1 hr later, and lasting for 5.5 hr. estimated no concentration in the circulation was 1 to 2 x 10(-9) m. results: the areas-at-risk expressed as a percentage of the total left ventricular weights were not significantly different among either of the mi groups. however, the necrotic area (expressed as a percentage of the myocardial area-at-risk) was significantly (p less than .01) lower in the no-treated mi cats compared with the mi + vehicle group. cardiac myeloperoxidase activities indicated that significantly (p less than .05) fewer neutrophils were attracted to the necrotic zone of the no-treated mi cats when compared with mi cats receiving only the vehicle. sodium nitrate (nano2) (ph 7.4), a major breakdown product of no, failed to exert any protective effect in this same model of mi and reperfusion. conclusions: no appears to provide significant myocardial protection after ischemia and reperfusion. no may afford cardioprotection by incorporation into circulating blood cells (i.e., neutrophils, platelets), thereby inhibiting their accumulation and adherence in the ischemic region, or by a direct cardiac cytoprotective effect. further studies using no donors rather than no would be an appropriate clinically relevant mode of treatment in mi.
spontaneous rupture of a normal bladder. we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of a normal urinary bladder. patients with this rare condition characteristically have a recent history of heavy alcohol intake, sudden onset of abdominal pain coincidental with bloody urine, generalized peritonitis, and abnormal renal chemistry. a high index of suspicion will lead to early diagnosis and treatment, minimizing the mortality attributed to this condition.
combined orthopedic and vascular injury in the lower extremities: indications for amputation. a retrospective review was undertaken to determine risk factors associated with amputation after open fractures of the lower extremity that were complicated by vascular injury. during an 11-year period ending in december 1987, we observed open fractures in 31 patients and injuries to the popliteal artery in 16 patients, to the tibial arteries in eight patients, to the femoral artery in five patients, and to the dorsal artery of the foot in two patients. vascular repair was accomplished in 25 patients; 12 patients had primary end-to-end anastomosis, 12 patients had reverse saphenous vein grafts, and one patient had a bovine graft. of these 25 patients, five patients required amputation because of infection and three patients required amputation because of continued ischemia. three patients with irreparable damage had immediate amputation, and three patients without distal ischemia had vessel ligation only. the risk factors associated with amputation were shock on admission (10 of 19 patients [p less than 0.02]) and a crushed extremity (10 of 18 patients [p less than 0.01]). the overall amputation rate, which included three immediate amputations and eight late amputations, was 35.2%. the data suggest that limb salvage is possible in two thirds of patients with combined orthopedic and vascular injuries of the lower extremity, but a history of shock or crush injury with vascular compromise is an unfavorable prognostic sign.
clinical and positron emission tomographic studies in the 'extrapyramidal syndrome' of dementia of the alzheimer type. extrapyramidal signs, particularly rigidity and tremor, have been reported in a proportion of patients with dementia of the alzheimer type. to test the hypothesis that these extrapyramidal signs are similar clinically and neurochemically to the extrapyramidal signs of parkinson's disease, a group of 20 patients satisfying clinical criteria for probable alzheimer's disease were studied and assessed clinically for the presence of rigidity, tremor, and bradykinesia. in those patients with extrapyramidal signs, qualitative differences were observed between the signs in these patients and in subjects with parkinson's disease. fifteen of 20 patients underwent fluoro-18-dopa scans, which showed no significant difference in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the caudate and putamen between normal subjects and the rigid and nonrigid patients with alzheimer's disease, in contrast to the marked reduction in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the putamen that is observed in parkinson's disease. this provides clinical and in vivo neurochemical support for the hypothesis that extranigral factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of rigidity in alzheimer's disease.
bronchodilator responses to anticholinergic and beta-adrenergic agents in acute and stable copd patients with copd may respond differently to anticholinergic and beta-agonist bronchodilators. previously, in acutely ill copd patients, we showed similar improvements in pulmonary function after each drug (study 1). the responses of the same patients when stable are now reported (study 2). patients received ipratropium bromide (54 micrograms) (n = 16) or metaproterenol sulfate (1.95 mg) (n = 14) via an mdi attached to a delivery device as in study 1. ninety minutes after the first medication, patients received the second. spirometry was measured at entry and at 30-min intervals following the first drug and at the same times after the second drug. results were as follow: the groups did not differ in clinical characteristics. however, for both groups, there was significantly less airway obstruction at entry into study 2. in study 1, ipratropium resulted in significant improvement in fev1 (0.62 +/- .08 to 0.88 +/- .11 l; mean increase 24 percent; p less than 0.05) with no further change after crossover. in study 2, ipratropium produced similar improvements in fev1 by 90 minutes (0.94 +/- .09 to 1.3 +/- .09 l; mean increase 25 percent; p less than 0.05), with no further improvement after crossover. for metaproterenol, in study 1, the improvement in fev1 was not significantly different than that for ipratropium (fev1; 0.71 +/- .07 to 0.92 +/- 0.06 l; mean increase 18 percent; p less than 0.05), with no further improvement after crossover. in study 2, improvement with metaproterenol was significant and similar to study 1 (fev1: 0.96 +/- .06 to 1.21 +/- .09 l; mean increase 18 percent; p less than 0.05). thus, ipratropium and metaproterenol similarly improved pulmonary function in copd patients when stable and during acute exacerbations.
immunohistochemical investigations of estrogen receptors in normal and neoplastic squamous epithelium of the vulva. atrophic disease of the vulvar epithelium can be treated with steroids, but carcinoma of the vulva cannot be influenced with any hormone therapy. seventy-one vulvar specimens were tested for estrogen receptor (er) content by means of immunohistochemistry. slight er staining was found in nonkeratinizing squamous epithelium in 17 of 22 cases. a weak er reaction in the basal and parabasal layers was found in only 2 of 17 specimens of keratinizing squamous epithelium. however, no er was found in any neoplastic tissue of the vulva or the adjacent stroma. the loss of er in neoplastic cells could explain the clinical experience that antihormonal treatment of vulvar carcinomas produces no appreciable improvement.
normal angiograms and carotid pathology. nonstenotic ulcerated atherosclerotic plaques of the carotid arteries may be associated with symptoms of transient ischemic attacks, amaurosis fugax, and stroke. preoperative evaluation of patients with these symptoms has traditionally included ultrasound and arch aortography angiograms of the area of the carotid bifurcation. recent evidence has shown that ultrasound is more accurate in detection and morphologic delineation of these nonstenotic lesions. we analyzed the hospital records of 21 patients with ultrasonographic evidence of disease in whom arteriograms were negative. the patient group comprised 15 men and six women, with an average of 66 years. all patients had symptoms of hemispheric transient ischemic attacks and were evaluated with b-mode ultrasound and arteriography. ultrasound was positive and arteriogram "negative" in all of the patients (i.e., described by the radiologist as without hemodynamic significant disease or ulceration, or as normal). the ultrasound diagnosis was confirmed at operation with findings of 20 to 50 per cent stenosis and ulcerative plaques. at retrospective review of the arteriograms, three ulcerations were found in the 21 patients. we conclude that b-mode ultrasound better defines nonstenotic ulcerative lesions and decisions to perform carotid endarterectomy may be based on either positive test. an ulcerative plaque by b-mode ultrasound and appropriate symptoms, therefore, may not require angiography before operation.
nb4, a maturation inducible cell line with t(15;17) marker isolated from a human acute promyelocytic leukemia (m3). acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl) is a well-defined entity among acute leukemia, cytogenetically characterized by a t(15;17) (q22;q11-12) translocation. in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that all-trans retinoic acid (ra) treatment restores cell maturation. we have isolated the first permanent cell line with t(15;17), derived from the marrow of a patient with apl in relapse. the establishment of the cell line, its morphologic, karyotypic, and immunohistochemical features are reported. ra induced cell line maturation. cells strongly expressed myeloid markers, but also some t-cell markers. additional karyotypic abnormalities, a 12p rearrangement and the possible presence of a homogeneous staining region (hsr) on 19q+ are discussed both in relation to t-cell (cd2, cd4) and monocyte (cd9) markers, and to the acquired cell growth autonomy. the cell line represents a remarkable tool for biomolecular studies.
a new syndrome: hearing loss and familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone in two brothers. two male siblings presented in infancy with hyponatremia. the levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were elevated. sodium supplement was necessary to maintain normal sodium balance. the salivary sodium concentrations were markedly elevated, with sweat sodium levels being in the upper normal range. urinary sodium concentration and renal epithelial exchange between sodium and potassium were normal. this was felt to be due to an autosomal recessive disorder. both siblings were later diagnosed as having a bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss with intermittent conductive overlay due to middle ear fluid. the sensorineural loss was also felt to be autosomal recessive in origin, but the possibility of a disturbance of sodium balance in the inner ear has been questioned.
a phase i study of a new cisplatin derivative for hematologic malignancies. dwa2114r (dwa) is a new derivative of platin compounds that is currently being used in phase ii studies of solid tumors in japan. the dose-limiting factor is myelotoxicity with mild extramedullary toxicity. this phase i study consisted of adult patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies. eight patients received a total of 15 treatment courses of dwa. the starting dose was 800 mg/m2 over 24 hours by continuous infusion. the dose was first increased to 1200 mg/m2 and then to 1600 mg/m2. clinical toxicity and urinary excretion studies of dwa suggested that 1200 mg/m2/d for successive days would be the best type of administration. when 1200 mg/m2/d was given for 5 days, grade 2 to 3 diarrhea and nausea and vomiting were encountered requiring parenteral fluids and nutritional support. this suggested that the dose-limiting factor with this schedule was gastrointestinal toxicity. myelotoxicity was severe, as expected, but tolerable. one of the five patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) entered into complete remission and one patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) in crisis returned to the chronic phase. a phase ii trial of dwa is warranted for hematologic malignancies, especially in myeloid diseases.
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis. in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis, we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin (piperacillin) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination. whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections, such as acute cholangitis, however, is still unclear. we, therefore, conducted a three center, prospective, randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis. during a 36 month period, 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin (n = 49) or ampicillin plus tobramycin (n = 47). the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters. the incidence of blood cultures with positive results (20 versus 21 per cent) and underlying malignant lesions (51 versus 62 per cent) was also similar between the two groups. the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups (69 versus 70 per cent). however, there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions (83 versus 59 per cent, p less than 0.01). no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity, but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities (2 versus 19 per cent, p less than 0.05). these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction.
unconsciousness associated with midazolam and erythromycin. an 8-yr-old boy suffering from an asymptomatic ventricular septal defect was given erythromycin for antibiotic prophylaxis before adenoidectomy. sixty minutes after premedication with oral midazolam 0.5 mg kg-1 and oral atropine 0.03 mg kg-1, an infusion of erythromycin 400 mg was started. when 200 mg of erythromycin had been infused, the patient lost consciousness, but other vital functions remained normal. after 45 min, he awakened spontaneously. at the time the plasma concentration of midazolam was 134 ng ml-1. in order to investigate possible interactions between midazolam and erythromycin, we studied the pharmacokinetics of midazolam in six children of the same age undergoing minor otolaryngological surgery. the plasma concentration of midazolam in the patient who lost consciousness was significantly greater than in six other children without concomitant administration of erythromycin. the altered pharmacokinetics of midazolam may result from reduced hepatic clearance of midazolam caused by an enzyme inhibiting drug, erythromycin.
costs of operating a supported work program for traumatically brain-injured individuals. this paper presents a preliminary analysis of costs associated with a return-to-work program emphasizing a supported employment approach for persons who had sustained severe traumatic brain injuries. this analysis spans almost three years. results indicated that a mean of 237.8 hours of staff intervention time was required to achieve job stabilization, at a cost of +6896. ongoing follow-along and support services averaged 1.64 hours per week at a cost of +47.56. over 68% of total staff time and costs were expended in job-site training and advocacy efforts. application of these findings to state-level and agency-level policies should be weighed against individual characteristics and needs of clients, program design, and outcomes which clients achieve as a result of services.
truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty combined with valvular replacement in patients with ulcer disease. in 1988, 5 patients (3 men and 2 women) with ulcer disease (mean age 56 +/- 8 years) underwent valvular replacement for aortic (no. = 4) or mitral disease (no. = 1). all patients had had gastroduodenal ulcers. preoperative gastroscopy demonstrated active ulcers (no. = 4) and a healed pyloric ulcer with pyloric stenosis (no. = 1). despite the presence of ulcers, a non-biologic prosthesis was preferred in each patient because of their young age (no. = 3), chronic atrial fibrillation requiring anticoagulant therapy (no. = 1), and refusal of the eventuality of subsequent reoperation (no. = 1). in each patient, a truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty was performed simultaneously with the valvular procedures by the same incision. the postoperative courses were uneventful. with a mean follow-up of 15 +/- 3 months, no gastrointestinal bleeding was observed during anticoagulant therapy. with anticoagulant drugs, bleeding may occur with a frequency of 4% per patient treatment-year, half of which are gastrointestinal in origin. nevertheless, in selected patients with gastroduodenal ulcers, performing a vagotomy-pyloroplasty simultaneously with valvular replacement allows implantation of a non-biologic prosthesis, with greater durability than bioprosthesis.
hiv associated systemic necrotizing vasculitis. the spectrum of hiv associated rheumatic syndromes continues to expand as does our experience with the disease. the following is a case of hiv associated systemic necrotizing vasculitis documented by rectal biopsy. the patient was treated successfully with corticosteroids alone, and after 9 months of followup has no evidence of progression to frank aids.
comparison of four pulse oximeters: effects of venous occlusion and cold-induced peripheral vasoconstriction. the ability of four pulse oximeters (the ohmeda 3700, nellcor n100 and n200 and the datex oscar) to detect hypoxaemia was determined in the presence of venous obstruction and cold-induced peripheral vasoconstriction. significant increases in detection time for hypoxaemia were found in both cases. there were no significant differences in detection time between the instruments, although the ohmeda 3700 displayed smaller values of sao2 under certain conditions. peripheral vasoconstriction was induced using three differing methods which gave differing results, thus emphasizing the importance of methodology in assessments of pulse oximetry.
performance of cesarean section using absorbable staples. although stapling techniques have gained wide acceptance in general surgery, they are still not commonly used in obstetrics. u.s. surgical corporation has introduced a stapling device suitable for use in cesarean sections. the copolymer staples (a blend of polylactic and polyglycolic acids) maintain their tensile strength until healing occurs and absorb without producing granulation tissue. the benefits include minimal trauma to tissue and reduced operating time, blood loss and postoperative morbidity. from july 1988 to february 1989, all patients undergoing low transverse cervical cesarean sections were randomized to either group 1 with the uterine incision performed in a routine manner or group 2 with the uterine incision cut and stapled using the stapler. the preoperative management, intraoperative technique and postoperative surveillance were similar for both groups. the uterine incision was assessed by pelvic sonography during the postpartum period. statistical analysis was performed using fisher's exact test and chi-square analysis. both groups were comparable for age, race, parity, gestational age and primary diagnosis. the length of the operative procedure was significantly shorter (p less than 0.05) in the stapled group. these patients also had a statistically significantly decreased incidence of uterine incisions and lacerations. all other parameters were not significantly different in the two groups. the stapled uterine incisions were visible by ultrasonography in more patients in the stapled group throughout the postpartum period than in the sutured group. thus, stapling of the uterine incision was an acceptable alternative to traditional suturing techniques and it was possible to visualize clearly these incisions during the postpartum period.
giant cell tumor of bone. a clinicopathologic and dna flow cytometric analysis. flow cytometric dna analysis was performed on 60 cases of giant cell tumor of bone and the results were correlated with the clinicopathologic features. tumors studied were from 31 men and 29 women whose ages ranged from 18 to 62 years (median, 29 years). the most common sites were the distal end of the femur and proximal end of the tibia, accounting for 75% of the lesions. treatment consisted of resection in 29 patients (48%), curettage with bone chip packing in 15 patients (25%), or curettage with cement packing in 16 patients (27%). ten patients (17%) had local relapse within 1 to 3 years, and two had lung metastases. forty-two patients (70%) exhibited tumors with a diploid dna content, 16 aneuploid (27%), and two tetraploid (3%). six (37.5%) of the aneuploid patients had relapses: one of those had been treated by resection of the tumor and five by curettage. of the remaining ten (62.5%) unrelapsed aneuploid patients, nine had been treated by resection of the tumor and one by curettage. four of the 42 diploid patients (9.5%) had relapses; all had been treated by curettage of the tumor. the two tetraploid tumors were treated by resection and none relapsed. histologic parameters did not correlate with relapse rate or dna pattern. although relapse was more common among aneuploid tumors, our study shows that this appears to be influenced by the treatment modality rather than the ploidy status. based on this study the dna analysis of giant cell tumor of bone has a limited utility for predicting the tumor's biologic behavior.
plasma immunoreactive leukotriene c4 levels in patients with kawasaki disease. the incidence of wheezing in kawasaki disease (kd) has been investigated retrospectively. we measured plasma immunoreactive-leukotriene c4 (i-ltc4) levels of patients with kd. wheezing was observed in 32 (12.5%) of the 256 patients with kd. patients who had a prior history of bronchial asthma wheezed more frequently than other patients. during the acute stage of kd, plasma i-ltc4 levels both of wheezing and nonwheezing were significantly higher than those of healthy children. during the convalescent stage, plasma i-ltc4 levels of wheezing cases were higher than those of nonwheezing cases. we speculate that ltc4 contributes to the appearance of inflammatory symptoms during the acute stage of kd. during the convalescent stage when patients were taking aspirin, the presence of wheezing was associated with increased plasma levels of i-ltc4. more attention should be paid to the appearance of wheezing during the course of kd, especially in those cases in which the patient has a prior history of bronchial asthma.
treatment of chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy by cyclosporin a and plasma exchange. a case report. a patient with chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy was successfully treated with plasma exchanges and cyclosporin a (csa). dynamometric measurements of hand force during the time of csa treatment showed a highly significant correlation between hand force and csa blood levels. the largest influence of csa on hand force occurred 11-13 days after csa uptake.
abnormal hemodynamic response to valsalva maneuver in patients with atrial septal defect evaluated by doppler echocardiography. hemodynamic responses to the valsalva maneuver were studied in eight healthy subjects (group 1) and eight patients with asd (group 2) using doppler echocardiography. the acute changes of aortic blood flow profiles during the valsalva maneuver were investigated on a basis of beat-to-beat estimation. during the active strain phase (phase 2), group 1 showed a significant decrease in systolic blood pressure, sv and co with reflex tachycardia; in group 2, there was a significant decrease in sv and co with reflex tachycardia, but not systolic blood pressure. the percentage decreases in sv and co in group 2 were significantly less than those in group 1 (23 +/- 16 percent vs 48 +/- 10 percent for sv, p less than 0.01; 17 +/- 12 percent vs 40 +/- 13 percent for co, p less than 0.05). after release of strain phase (phase 4), group 1 showed significant reversed changes in systolic blood pressure, sv and heart rate, indicating an overshoot effect which was, however, not observed in group 2. thus, patients with asd presented abnormal valsalva response which was characterized by the absence of phase 4 overshoot and a less marked phase 2 change. the findings suggest that the decremental effect of impaired venous return on stroke output during active strain may be attenuated by the increased pulmonary blood volume due to left-to-right shunt. in patients with asd, the lesser decrement of co during phase 2 may not provoke sufficient sympathetic activity to induce overshoot response in phase 4.
degenerative aortic stenosis. one effect of the graying of america. degenerative calcific aortic stenosis is evolving as a common geriatric problem. once symptoms develop, it is a highly lethal disease that does not respond well to medical therapy. aortic balloon valvuloplasty may offer palliation but is unlikely to alter the overall course of the disease. aortic valve replacement is the therapy of choice, but high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates can be expected in the very elderly. the presence of other appreciable cardiac disorders may contribute to the occurrence of postoperative complications. patients with asymptomatic aortic stenosis and normal left ventricular function can be treated medically and followed with serial aortic valve area determinations using doppler echocardiography.
cadherin cell adhesion receptors as a morphogenetic regulator. cadherins are a family of cell adhesion receptors that are crucial for the mutual association of vertebrate cells. through their homophilic binding interactions, cadherins play a role in cell-sorting mechanisms, conferring adhesion specificities on cells. the regulated expression of cadherins also controls cell polarity and tissue morphology. cadherins are thus considered to be important regulators of morphogenesis. moreover, pathological examinations suggest that the down-regulation of cadherin expression is associated with the invasiveness of tumor cells.
failure of nine-month phenobarbital administration to reverse amygdaloid-kindled seizure susceptibility in cats. upon completion of left amygdaloid kindling, 4 cats underwent long-term phenobarbital administration during the subsequent 5- to 9-month rest period. plasma phenobarbital levels were maintained above 15 to 20 micrograms/ml and were restimulated following plasma phenobarbital washout. three cats served as nonmedicated controls. all 7 cats were subjected to repeated 6-hour sleep monitoring for observation of interictal discharges, which were observed most often in the immediate postictal period. their frequency decreased gradually throughout the experiment in both the medicated and control animals, but they never completely disappeared except from the contralateral amygdala in 1 medicated animal. upon primary site restimulation, all of the medicated animals responded with a generalized convulsion once the afterdischarge was induced. when these animals underwent secondary-site amygdaloid kindling, 3 showed a positive transfer effect. the findings suggest that although phenobarbital is a potent anticonvulsant, it has little effect on the acquired seizure susceptibility of previously amygdaloid kindled cats.
complete remission in refractory anaplastic adult wilms' tumor treated with cisplatin and etoposide. a 61-year-old woman underwent a left radical nephrectomy for stage ii anaplastic wilm's tumor. she received no adjuvant therapy. one year later computerized tomography (ct) of the abdomen revealed a mass in the left renal fossa and retroperitoneal adenopathy. a ct-guided needle biopsy was nondiagnostic. the patient had progressive disease after treatment with dactinomycin, doxorubicin, and vincristine, but achieved a complete response after treatment with cisplatin and etoposide. the therapy of wilms' tumor in adults is discussed.
staging of ureteral transitional cell carcinoma by ct and mri. intravenous urography and retrograde pyelography are the primary radiologic studies for detecting ureteral carcinoma but give limited information regarding stage of disease. computed tomography (ct) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) delineate the extent of ureteral carcinomas with a high degree of accuracy by depicting the periureteral fat and presence or absence of lymphadenopathy. in selected cases, ct and mri are valuable for assessing the presence or absence of tumor in a ureteral stump and for the differential diagnosis of ureteral obstruction. five cases of ureteral carcinoma and 2 cases of stump carcinoma are presented with preoperative ct and/or mri evaluation and staging.
epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and ovarian cancer. i. correlation of receptor expression with prognostic factors in patients with ovarian cancer. previous studies in breast and bladder cancer have suggested that epidermal growth factor receptor is expressed by only a proportion of cancers and is associated with poor clinical outcome. we used a monoclonal antibody specifically reactive with the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor to localize this receptor immunohistochemically in frozen sections of normal ovary and epithelial ovarian cancer. normal ovarian epithelium was found to express epidermal growth factor receptor in all cases. among 87 ovarian cancers, however, 23% did not express immunohistochemically detectable receptor. epidermal growth factor receptor expression was not related to histologic grade or stage, but was associated with poor survival (p less than 0.05). the median length of survival of patients with tumors that did not express epidermal growth factor receptor was 40 months compared with 26 months in patients with tumors that did express epidermal growth factor receptor. as in breast and bladder cancer, expression of epidermal growth factor receptor in ovarian cancer appears to be a poor prognostic factor.
prognostic factors for outcome of and survival after second-look laparotomy in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma. in ovarian cancer stages iib-iv, pre-treatment variables and variables obtained intraoperatively at second-look laparotomy were investigated for their prognostic influence on the outcome of 109 patients and survival after second-look laparotomy in 131 patients. the subjects came from a randomized trial of sequential versus alternating combination chemotherapy. the overall median survival after second-look laparotomy was 62 months. logistic regression analysis identified stage and hysterectomy plus bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy as significant prognostic covariates for second-look laparotomy outcome. based on a cox multivariate stepwise analysis, independent prognostic factors for survival after second-look laparotomy were secondary residual tumor size, pre-treatment histologic differentiation grade, and performance status. a high differentiation grade and a good performance status at the start of therapy thus still had a prolonging effect on survival after second-look laparotomy. the prognostic power of these pre-treatment variables was increased substantially by the addition of the secondary residual tumor size variable. the 3-year survival rate after second-look laparotomy for high- and low-risk patients was 15 and 87%, respectively. second-look laparotomy thus provides prognostic information in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma, but the benefit in terms of survival is still unclear.
gall-bladder perforation after long-term dapsone therapy. a 65-year-old man on maintenance dapsone therapy for dermatitis herpetiformis for 30 years was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and vomiting. investigations revealed a heinz body haemolytic anaemia. worsening symptoms prompted an emergency laparotomy that revealed a perforated gall bladder with pigmented biliary calculi. in previous reviews of the haematological abnormalities associated with dapsone therapy, life-threatening cholecystitis has not been described.
association of escherichia coli hep-2 adherence patterns with type and duration of diarrhoea. 373 (59%) out of 636 faecal specimens obtained during the first 2 years of life of 72 mexican children yielded adherent escherichia coli (hep-2 cells). strains with localised adherence were significantly associated with acute non-bloody diarrhoea, whereas strains with aggregative adherence were significantly associated with persistent diarrhoea. half the strains with localised adherence were not enteropathogenic e coli serotypes nor did they hybridise with an enteropathogenic e coli adherence factor dna probe. all strains with localised adherence gave a positive fluorescent actin staining (fas) assay, irrespective of serotype. one-third of children colonised by aggregative strains had bloody diarrhoea. isolation of strains with diffuse adherence was not related to type or duration of diarrhoea but was generally associated with isolation of another pathogenic organism.
effects of epidural anesthesia on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis after total knee arthroplasty [published erratum appears in j bone joint surg [am] 1991 jul;73(6):952] epidural anesthesia has been reported to reduce the prevalence of deep-vein thrombosis after total hip arthroplasty compared with the prevalence after general anesthesia. however, the effect of epidural anesthesia on the rate of thrombosis after total knee arthroplasty has not been reported previously, to our knowledge. a review was conducted of 705 total knee arthroplasties (541 patients) that had been performed by a single surgeon between september 1984 and december 1988. during this period, the operative technique, the protocol for rehabilitation, and the regimen for prophylaxis against thromboembolism did not change meaningfully. the patients received either epidural or general anesthesia. preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of the lungs and a venogram of the lower limb or limbs that had been operated on were done for all patients. for the 227 patients who had received epidural anesthesia, the over-all rate of deep-vein thrombosis was 48 per cent, which was significantly lower than the 64 per cent incidence in the 264 patients who had received general anesthesia (p less than 0.0001). the greatest reduction was in the occurrence of proximal thrombosis, which was identified in 9 per cent of the patients who had had general anesthesia but in only 4 per cent of those who had had epidural anesthesia (p less than 0.05). the use of epidural anesthesia reduced the incidence of proximal thrombosis after both unilateral and one-stage bilateral arthroplasty.
flexible nd:yag laser palliation of obstructive tracheal metastatic malignancies. flexible nd:yag endoscopic laser surgery may become an effective new modality for palliation in patients with obstructive endotracheal metastatic malignancies. we report the results of the treatment of two patients with severely obstructing intraluminal tracheal metastatic melanoma and medullary thyroid carcinoma, using the neodymium-yag laser via the flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope. both patients complained of significant dyspnea, orthopnea, cough, and hemoptysis and were not candidates for rigid bronchoscopy because of underlying medical contraindications and anatomical problems. multiple treatment sessions were used with treatment intervals of 1 to 2 weeks. all treatments were performed in the operating room under sedation, without intubation, with topical lidocaine and standard superior laryngeal nerve block. successful relief of airway obstruction with complete regression of the endotracheal masses was achieved and no recurrences were seen after 9 months' follow-up. flexible nd:yag laser bronchoscopy offered an alternative for the relief of obstructing endotracheal or bronchial malignancies in patients in whom the rigid bronchoscope could not be passed. it seemed to prolong survival in selected cases, and provided definite improvement in quality of life.
prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease in family members of jewish crohn's disease patients in israel. a familial study of 189 jewish crohn's disease patients was conducted in order to evaluate the risk for inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) in relatives of the patients and to try to understand better the genetic component in the etiology of the disease among jews. one hundred fifty-seven patients filled out questionnaires that were verified by personal interviews. in 10 families (6.6%), a first-degree relative of the propositus was found to have ibd, seven crohn's disease and three ulcerative colitis. among first-degree relatives, siblings were more frequently affected: of 400, five had crohn's disease and one ulcerative colitis. among 304 parents, two had crohn's disease and two ulcerative colitis, while none of the propositi's children had ibd. the prevalence of first-degree relatives with crohn's disease was similar in the 98 and 45 families of ashkenazi and non-ashkenazi origin: 5.1% and 4.4%, respectively. the risk for siblings of the probands to be affected were also similar in the two groups: 1.5% and 1.8%; while parents of the probands were affected only in the group of ashkenazi jews.
functional character and augmentation of lymphocytes in regional lymph nodes of patients with lung cancer. it appears that lymph node metastases are more frequent in lung cancer than in other cancers because of impaired defensive mechanisms in the regional lymph nodes. however, little is known about the immunologic function of regional lymph node lymphocytes (rlnl) in patients with lung cancer. we have studied the immunologic properties of rlnl in comparison with peripheral blood lymphocytes (pbl). we measured the natural killer (nk) cell activity of rlnl and pbl in patients with lung cancer and found that the nk activity was significantly more depressed in the rlnl than in the pbl. in contrast, interleukin-2 (il-2) production was markedly higher in the rlnl than in the pbl. the cytotoxic effect of rlnl in nonmetastatic lymph nodes on target cells (such as k562 cells) or pc-3 and pc-10 cells (nk-resistant, human lung cancer of adenocarcinoma and epidermoid carcinoma, respectively) was significantly enhanced by in vitro incubation with recombinant il-2 (ril-2). furthermore, we clarified that both ril-2 and ok-432, which is a biologic response modifier and il-2 inducer as well, augmented the cytotoxicity of rlnl and that these effector cells were lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells. the depletion of lymphocyte subsets by pretreatment with specific monoclonal antibody showed that the lak activity in rlnl was mediated by cd3+ and cd8+ cells, whereas the lymphocyte subsets contributing the lak activity in pbl were cd3+ and cd16+ cells. it was concluded that a majority of the effector cells in rlnl were lak cells of the cytotoxic t cell population.
solitary fibromatosis of bone. a rare variant of congenital generalized fibromatosis. congenital generalized fibromatosis is part of the spectrum of the fibromatoses of infancy and childhood. the lesions are usually multiple and fibrous in nature. they may appear in virtually every organ outside the central nervous system. congenital generalized fibromatosis can be limited to the skeleton and rarely manifests itself as a solitary bone lesion. solitary osseous lesions often behave differently than multiple osseous lesions. solitary lesions often do not regress without treatment and can have a high incidence of recurrence with less than marginal excision. multiple osseous lesions often regress without treatment.
a randomised double-blind study of interpleural analgesia after cholecystectomy. continuous interpleural analgesia provided by 4 hourly injections of 20 ml bupivacaine 0.5% with adrenaline 5 micrograms/ml was compared with placebo in a randomised, double-blind study after cholecystectomy. all patients self-administered intravenous morphine using a patient-controlled analgesia device. there was a highly significant difference in mean morphine consumption between the groups (72 mg as compared with 22 mg). visual analogue pain scores tended to be lower in the bupivacaine group throughout and this was significant at 2 hours. respiratory function measurements were not significantly different between the groups. the mean peak venous plasma bupivacaine concentration after the sixth dose was 3.03 micrograms/ml and no symptoms suggestive of local anaesthetic toxicity occurred. it is concluded that this regimen can provide effective and continuous analgesia after cholecystectomy and that combined administration of interpleural bupivacaine and systemic morphine is more effective than morphine alone in the immediate postoperative period. the doses of bupivacaine required for optimal use of the technique lead to significant total plasma bupivacaine concentrations within 24 hours.
glucagonoma syndrome is an underdiagnosed clinical entity. glucagonomas, considered among the rarest of the islet cell neoplasms, produce a well-defined clinical syndrome characterized by necrolytic migratory erythema, diabetes mellitus, glossitis, anemia, and weight loss. this report describes seven patients with glucagonoma treated at our institution. all seven had the characteristic dermatologic manifestations, present from 1 to 6 years prior to diagnosis. five patients had extensive disease at the time of initial operation, three of whom underwent aggressive cytoreductive surgery, whereas the other two had biopsy only. the remaining two patients presented with a single nodule each, underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, and remain free of disease 2 and 6 years postoperatively. earlier recognition of the distinctive physical findings peculiar to this syndrome should increase survival. aggressive cytoreductive surgery results in prolonged remission.
esophageal motor disorder in alcoholics: result of alcoholism or withdrawal? both acute and chronic ethanol consumption may cause esophageal dysmotility. in order to systematically evaluate the effect of ethanol on esophageal motility, we studied esophageal motility in 13 healthy subjects before and following acute intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol and in chronic alcoholics within 6 hr of their last drink (n = 6) and following 24 to 48 hr of abstinence when signs of withdrawal were present (n = 13). withdrawing alcoholics were also restudied after intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol. ethanol transiently decreased lower esophageal sphincter pressure (lesp) and inhibited les relaxation in all control subjects; this inhibitory effect of ethanol on lesp in alcoholics was significantly less, indicating the development of tolerance. ethanol moderately decreased esophageal contraction amplitude (eca) in 10 of 13 controls and prolonged duration of contractions in all but had no effect on velocity of esophageal contractions. in contrast, eca was significantly elevated in both groups of alcoholics, but this was significantly more marked in withdrawing alcoholics. ethanol infusion returned eca toward normal values in withdrawing alcoholics. abnormal motility was noted in three intoxicated alcoholics and 10 (77%) withdrawing alcoholics. this included nutcracker esophagus in five and hypertensive les in two. these data indicated that (1) esophageal motor dysfunction is common in alcoholics; (2) acute ethanol administration decreases lesp and esophageal contraction amplitude, whereas chronic ethanol consumption and withdrawal from ethanol increases eca. this suggests development of a compensatory mechanism in chronic alcoholics leading to high pressure esophageal contractions during withdrawal.
stiff-man syndrome: a gabaergic autoimmune disorder with autoantigenic heterogeneity. autoantibodies that reacted with cell bodies and axon terminals of gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba)ergic neurons were present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with stiff-man syndrome with type i diabetes. immunoblot experiments using this patient's serum and cerebrospinal fluid did not corroborate an earlier observation that these autoantibodies are directed against the gabaergic cytosolic enzyme, l-glutamic acid decarboxylase. while l-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies may be associated with this syndrome, they do not appear to be easily demonstrated.
controlling stability of a complex movement system. human movement systems have frequently been treated as one-dimensional, single-axis, rigid bodies in order to simplify the gathering, analysis, and interpretation of data. the problem with this approach is that the results of such assumptions often lead to conclusions about the production and control of movement that do not relate to the control demands placed on the central nervous system. in order to truly understand how the central nervous system plans and produces movements to match environmental demands, we must take into account the many variations available within the body. the purpose of this article is to examine two movement systems that have the potential to act in multiple spatial dimensions with variable muscle action patterns when performing a stabilizing task. methods of analyzing how the systems operate under differing task constraints and results of the experiments will be presented. hypothetical models that have been proposed to explain how complex movement systems operate will also be discussed.
scales for rating motor impairment in parkinson's disease: studies of reliability and convergent validity. study 1 examined the reliability of the ratings assigned to the performance of five sign-and-symptom items drawn from tests of motor impairment in parkinson's disease. patients with parkinson's disease of varying severity performed gait, rising from chair, and hand function items. video recordings of these performances were rated by a large sample of experienced and inexperienced neurologists and by psychology undergraduates, using a four point scale. inter-rater reliability was moderately high, being higher for gait than hand function items. clinical experience proved to have no systematic effect on ratings or their reliability. the idiosyncrasy of particular performances was a major source of unreliable ratings. study 2 examined the intercorrelation of several standard rating scales, comprised of sign-and-symptom items as well as activities of daily living. the correlation between scales was high, ranging from 0.70 to 0.83, despite considerable differences in item composition. inter-item correlations showed that the internal cohesion of the tests was high, especially for the self-care scale. regression analysis showed that the relationship between the scales could be efficiently captured by a small selection of test items, allowing the construction of a much briefer test.
crystal-storing histiocytosis and crystalline tissue deposition in multiple myeloma [published erratum appears in arch pathol lab med 1991 aug;115(8):806] systemic distribution of crystal-storing histiocytes, increasing in number, and widespread crystalline tissue deposition were found in a 75-year-old man with a 5-year history of igg-kappa-type multiple myeloma associated with corneal opacity and chronic renal failure. characteristic crystalline inclusions were present not only in myeloma cells but also in cornea, epithelial cells of glomeruli, tubuli, bowman's capsules, and choroid plexus. histiocytes had particularly infiltrated the renal interstitium. these inclusions were positive by immunofluorescence for kappa light and gamma heavy chains. by electron microscopy, the inclusions were filled with fine crystalline hexagonal columns, each possessing a core structure. of various factors generally considered responsible for renal failure in multiple myeloma, marked infiltration of histiocytes and the nephrotoxic effects of light chain appeared most relevant in the present case.
clinoidal meningiomas. anterior clinoidal meningiomas are frequently grouped with suprasellar or sphenoid ridge meningiomas, masking their notorious association with a high mortality and morbidity rate, failure of total removal, and recurrence. to avoid injury to encased cerebral vessels, most surgeons are content with subtotal removal. without total removal, however, recurrence is expected. recent advances in cranial-base exposure and cavernous sinus surgery have facilitated radical total removal. the author reports 24 cases operated on with vigorous attempts at total removal of the tumor with involved dura and bone. this experience has distinguished three groups (i, ii, and iii) which influence surgical difficulties, the success of total removal, and outcome. these subgroups relate to the presence of interfacing arachnoid membranes between the tumor and cerebral vessels. the presence or absence of arachnoid membranes depends on the origin of the tumor and its relation to the naked segment of carotid artery lying outside the carotid cistern. total removal was impossible in the three patients in group i, with postoperative death occurring in one patient and hemiplegia in another. total removal was achieved in 18 of the 19 patients in group ii, with one death from pulmonary embolism. in the two patients in group iii, total removal without complications was easily achieved.
intraoperative detection of patent foramen ovale by transesophageal echocardiography. this study reports the intraoperative use of contrast and doppler echocardiography techniques to diagnose patent foramen ovale (pfo). fifty patients without known atrial septal defects undergoing elective cardiovascular surgery were studied. a 5-mhz esophageal echocardiographic probe was used to image the fossa ovalis (fo) and 10 ml agitated saline was injected into the right atrium during apnea. echocardiographic contrast was then injected during end-inspiration at 20-cmh2o airway pressure. when opacification of the right atrium was complete, the airway pressure was released. during these maneuvers, color and pulsed-wave doppler interrogation of the atrial septum were also performed. right-to-left passage of saline contrast across the interatrial septum was seen in 11 of 50 patients (22%). doppler echocardiography demonstrated a pfo in 2 patients without contrast evidence of shunting. thus, the combination of contrast and doppler echocardiography identified a 26% (13 of 50) prevalence of pfo, approximating the previously reported autopsy rate of 25%. these contrast and doppler techniques may be useful in detecting patients at risk for paradoxical emboli and in identifying candidates for closure of the pfo.
miscellaneous adverse effects of low-versus high-osmolality contrast media: a study revised the authors analyzed data from two recent articles in radiology in which the quality and results of randomized control trials (rcts) comparing the efficacy or safety of the low-osmolality contrast media (lom) iopamidol, iohexol, and ioxaglate with that of the high-osmolarity contrast media (hom) diatrizoate, iodamide, iopamide, iothalamate, and metrizoate were assessed. one conclusion in the source articles was that no differences were seen between the two groups of contrast media in frequency of nausea, vomiting, and urticaria. however, the lom group included both nonionic lom (nim) and the ionic contrast medium ioxaglate. the authors found that various complications associated with the use of contrast media were much less common with nim than with hom; statistically this lower frequency is highly significant. this difference was obscured in the previous studies by the pooling of rcts in which the less toxic nim were used and rcts in which the more toxic ionic contrast medium ioxaglate was used.
t-cell translocation gene 1 (ttg-1) encodes a nuclear protein normally expressed in neural lineage cells. we previously identified and cloned t-cell translocation gene 1 (ttg-1), a putative zinc finger protein, as a result of its deregulated expression in a t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line (rpmi 8402) with a t(11;14)(p15;q11). we have now characterized its genomic organization and identified the major transcriptional start site to lie within an initiator-like motif. ttg-1 is normally expressed in mouse brain and not in thymus. the mouse neuroblastoma cell line, n2a, also expresses ttg-1. antibodies raised against a trpe-ttg-1 fusion protein precipitate an 18-kd nuclear protein from metabolically labeled 8402 cells. immunofluorescence of n2a cells shows a nuclear pattern. the two potential zinc finger domains in ttg-1 are highly homologous to similar regions in lin-11, mec-3, and lsl-1. this data suggests that ttg-1 may be involved in gene regulation.
gemistocytic astrocytomas: a reappraisal. although gemistocytic astrocytomas are considered slow-growing astrocytomas, they often behave aggressively. to clarify the biological and clinical behavior of these rare tumors, the authors retrospectively identified 59 patients with gemistocytic astrocytoma whose tumors were diagnosed and treated between june, 1976, and july, 1989. three patients who were lost to follow-up review were excluded, as were two whose original slides could not be obtained and three whose tumors were diagnosed at recurrence or at autopsy. the pathological material of the remaining 51 patients was reviewed using two sets of histological criteria. thirteen patients (group a) had "pure" gemistocytic astrocytoma, defined as a glial tumor with more than 60% gemistocytes/high-power field and a background of fibrillary astrocytes. fifteen patients (group b) had "mixed" gemistocytic astrocytoma, defined as a glial tumor with 20% to 60% gemistocytes/high-power field and a background of anaplastic astrocytes. twenty-three tumors did not meet these criteria and were excluded from analysis. the median age of the patients was 48.5 years in group a and 38.3 years in group b (p less than 0.05). in both groups, the median karnofsky performance scale score was greater than 90%. all patients underwent surgical procedures (four total and 19 partial resections, and five biopsies) and postoperative radiation therapy. the majority also had interstitial brachytherapy, chemotherapy, or both. ten patients had one reoperation for tumor recurrence and one had two reoperations; other treatments for recurrence included brachytherapy, chemotherapy, and repeat irradiation. all four patients who originally underwent gross total resection are still alive; all five who had a biopsy have died. there was no significant difference in median survival times between groups: 136.5 weeks in group a (range 10 to 310+ weeks) and 135.6 weeks in group b (range 31 to 460+ weeks). analysis of all 28 patients showed a better prognosis for patients less than 50 years of age (185 vs. 36 weeks survival time; p less than 0.001), patients with preoperative symptoms lasting for more than 6 months (228.1 vs. 110.2 weeks survival time; p less than 0.05), and patients with seizures as the first symptom (185.7 vs. 80 weeks survival time; p less than 0.01). survival time did not correlate with the presence of perivascular lymphocytic infiltration. the authors conclude that the presence of at least 20% gemistocytes in a glial neoplasm is a poor prognostic sign, irrespective of the pathological background. it is proposed that gemistocytic astrocytomas be classified with anaplastic astrocytomas and treated accordingly.
cerebral falciparum malaria mimicking thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. we have described a patient with cerebral falciparum malaria who had rapidly progressive cns deterioration, renal failure, hemolytic anemia associated with striking and varied erythrocyte morphologic changes, and thrombocytopenia. the initial diagnosis was thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp) of unknown origin. reexamination of the peripheral smear of this comatose patient led to correct diagnosis and effective treatment in this case of cerebral falciparum malaria--another of medicine's great mimickers.
papillary carcinoma of thyroid with exuberant nodular fasciitis-like stroma. report of three cases. three examples of an unusual morphologic variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (ptc) are reported. the presence of a prominent stromal component resulted in low-power microscopic appearances resembling fibroadenoma, phyllodes tumor, or fibrocystic disease of the breast in two cases. the carcinomatous component grew in the form of anastomosing narrow tubules, clustered glands, solid sheets with or without squamous differentiation, and/or papillae, and exhibited the typical nuclear features of ptc. the abundant stroma had a nodular fasciitis-like quality and was composed of short fascicles of spindle cells separated by varying amounts of mucoid matrix, collagen, and extravasated red blood cells; this was interpreted as an exuberant mesenchymal reaction to the carcinoma. the importance of recognizing this variant of ptc is that, when one encounters a fibroproliferative lesion of the thyroid, a diligent search should be made for papillary carcinoma. this variant also must be distinguished from the vastly more aggressive papillary carcinomas with anaplastic transformation and the so-called carcinosarcomas.
attributes and survival patterns of multiple primary cutaneous malignant melanoma. from a series of 1495 patients with primary cutaneous malignant melanoma (pcmm), 26 patients (1.73%) had multiple primary cutaneous malignant melanoma (mpcmm). this report describes the attributes and survival patterns in this small, but important, subgroup of patients with pcmm. of 26 patients, 23 had two primaries, two had three primaries, and one had six primaries. five patients had synchronous and 21 patients had metachronous mpcmm. the median interval between the occurrence of the first and subsequent pcmm in these patients was 1.93 years. the estimated 5-year survival rate from the first melanoma was 83.5%; that from the last melanoma was 53.1%. in summary, mpcmm is a distinct biologic phenomenon. a second or subsequent malignant melanoma should be treated like a primary melanoma.
clip repair of peripheral side-to-side arteriovenous fistulas. evaluation of a method in dogs and preliminary results in humans. a simple technique for repair of peripheral arteriovenous fistula by clip application is presented. this procedure is rapid and effective, it minimizes the extent of dissection, and it eliminates the need for application of vascular clamps on the vessels and for anticoagulation. the safety of the procedure was confirmed in dog experiments and clinically applied successfully in four patients. it is suitable for simple, uncomplicated side-to-side fistulas amenable to this procedure.
quadriceps myopathy: forme fruste of becker muscular dystrophy. we examined dystrophin, the protein product of the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene, in muscle biopsy specimens from 4 male patients with quadriceps myopathy, all of whom showed a mild and slowly progressive myopathy confined to the quadriceps muscles. all 4 patients had clear abnormalities of dystrophin, and were diagnosed as having becker muscular dystrophy by both immunofluorescence and immunoblot examinations; that is, dystrophin of an abnormal molecular mass was visualized in muscle cryosections as "patchy" or discontinuous immunostaining at the surface membrane of the muscle fibers. one patient had a brother who showed widespread myopathic changes consistent with typical becker muscular dystrophy. we conclude that the syndrome called quadriceps myopathy includes a group of forme fruste becker muscular dystrophy.
aerobic work capacity in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome objective--to determine the aerobic work capacity of patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome and compare it with that of two control groups, and to assess the patients' perception of their level of activity before and during illness. design--a symptom limited exercise treadmill test with on line gas analysis and blood sampling was used. subjects were assessed by one investigator, who was blind to the group which they were in. setting--department of medicine, royal victoria hospital, belfast. subjects--13 patients (10 women, three men) who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome. two control groups of similar age, sex, and body weight: 13 normal subjects (10 women, three men) and seven patients (five women, two men) with the irritable bowel syndrome. main outcome measures--aerobic work capacity as assessed by several variables such as length of time on treadmill, heart rate, and biochemical measurements; borg score; and visual analogue scores of perceived level of physical activity. results--the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome had a reduced exercise capacity compared with that of the other subjects, spending a significantly shorter time on the treadmill. they had a significantly higher heart rate at submaximal levels of exertion and at stage iii exertion had significantly higher blood lactate concentrations. using a borg score, they showed a significantly altered perception of their degree of physical exertion with a mean score of 8.2 compared with 6.6 and 5.3 for the normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome respectively. using a visual analogue scale they indicated that they had a greater capacity for activity before illness than had the patients with the irritable bowel syndrome, but the scores were not significantly different between the two groups. both groups of patients indicated reduced activity at the time of testing. normal controls and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome aspired to a greater level of activity than their current level, but the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome aspired to a level similar to that which they had had before their illness. conclusions--patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome have reduced aerobic work capacity compared with normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome. they also have an altered perception of their degree of exertion and their premorbid level of physical activity.
cat-scratch disease. acute encephalopathy and other neurologic manifestations. seventy-six patients with neurologic complications of cat-scratch disease are discussed. encephalopathy occurred in 61, while 15 had either cranial or peripheral nerve involvement. the average age of the patients with encephalopathy was 10.6 years (range, 1 to 66 years), and almost twice as many males as females were affected in contrast to patients with uncomplicated cat-scratch disease, in which the ratio was almost equal. fever was not documented in 50% of patients with encephalopathy and only 26% had temperatures higher than 39 degrees c. convulsions occurred in 46% and combative behavior in 40%. lethargy with or without coma was accompanied by variable neurologic signs. results of laboratory studies, including imaging of the central nervous system, were inconsistent and nondiagnostic. biopsy tissue from 14 patients showed histopathologic findings compatible with cat-scratch disease. the "english-wear bacillus" was demonstrated by the warthin-starry stain in 10 of 14 skin or lymph node specimens. of the 15 patients without encephalopathy, two children with facial nerve paresis displayed cranial nerve symptoms and/or signs, 10 patients had cat-scratch disease neuroretinitis, and three women had peripheral neuritis. all 76 patients recovered within 12 months; 78% recovered within 1 to 12 weeks. there were no neurologic sequelae. treatment consisted of control of convulsions and supportive measures. commonly used antibiotics administered to more than half of the patients were apparently ineffective.
a study of immunoglobulin g in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the log igg-index. a comparison and diagnostic applications. cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin g from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods: isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding, and quantitative measurement of igg and albumin for the formulation of a log igg-index. a comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of igg showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall, with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the log igg-index, but also a higher specificity, with a false positive rate of 0% versus 3.5%. in addition, of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 (58%) were positive by the log igg-index. of the 1007 patients studied, 206 had multiple sclerosis (ms), and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95% of clinically definite cases, with a 90% detection rate overall. the log igg-index was positive in only 67% of clinically definite cases, with an overall 59% detection rate. thus with the exceptions noted above, local synthesis of igg as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating, inflammatory, infectious and postinfectious disorders. our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis, and better than those for evoked potentials. where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct. for the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging, isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative. we would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of igg abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes.
cerebellopontine angle lipoma in a teenager. lipomas of the cerebellopontine angle are very rare lesions. to date, 18 patients have been reported, 17 of whom were adults. a second child is described with cerebellopontine angle lipoma.
postoperative bile duct strictures. bile duct strictures are an uncommon but serious complication of primary operations on the gallbladder or biliary tree. most strictures occur as a result of injury to the bile duct during cholecystectomy. in addition, strictures can occur at the site of previous biliary anastomoses for reconstruction of the biliary tree. most patients with benign bile duct strictures present soon after their initial operation; however, in some cases, presentation is delayed for years. cholangiography is essential for defining the anatomy of the biliary tree prior to management. in many cases, nonoperative biliary drainage is useful to treat sepsis and biliary fistulas. a number of alternatives exist for elective repair of bile duct strictures. experience would suggest, however, that a choledochojejunostomy or hepaticojejunostomy performed through a roux-en-y limb of jejunum is the preferable management in most cases. postoperative biliary stenting may be valuable in optimizing the results. nonoperative management by percutaneous transhepatic or endoscopic balloon dilatation has been reported to be successful in a number of small series. long-term results are limited, however. comparative data suggest that surgical repair for benign postoperative strictures is associated with fewer long-term problems and with similar overall morbidity and costs.
prognostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in colorectal carcinoma. serum levels before and after resection and before recurrence. the use of carcinoembryonic antigen was evaluated in 425 patients with a mean follow-up of 48 months. the preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels were predictive of recurrence and survival independent of the tumor stage. in a multivariate regression analysis of age, location, tumor stage, and preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels, the latter three factors were significant prognostic variables with respect to the adjusted survival. recurrent disease was found in 42% of patients, excluding patients with stage iv disease. the carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence was greater than 5 ng/ml in 79% of the patients and in 89% of the intra-abdominal recurrences. carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence was not predictive of postrecurrence survival except in the subgroup of locoregional disease. the life span in patients with liver and lung metastases was not influenced by carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence. preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels can indicate a poorer prognostic group of patients with colorectal cancer who may benefit from adjuvant treatment. the carcinoembryonic antigen at recurrence can be used effectively to diagnose intra-abdominal recurrences and project survival after development of local/regional disease.
left ventricular mechanics of ejecting, postischemic hearts during left ventricular circulatory assistance. we measured the effects of left ventricular circulatory assistance on ventricular mechanics of ejecting sheep hearts before and after global ischemia. flows from left atrium to femoral artery ranged between 20 and 100 ml/kg/min during circulatory assistance. in preischemic, ejecting hearts increasing flow through the left ventricular assist device progressively decreased stroke volume, end-diastolic volume, and circumferential systolic wall stress, but only slightly decreased end-systolic volume. in postischemic, ejecting hearts left ventricular assistance progressively and substantially decreased both end-diastolic volume and end-systolic volume; at high flows, end-systolic volume returned to the normal range of preischemic hearts. high flows through the assist device also shifted end-systolic points of pressure-volume loops leftward and increased the stroke work/end-diastolic volume ratio in ejecting postischemic hearts; these observations raise the possibility that left ventricular circulatory assistance acutely improves myocardial contractility of postischemic hearts.
the nature of opioid responsiveness and its implications for neuropathic pain: new hypotheses derived from studies of opioid infusions. in recent years, the observation that the response of patients to opioid drugs may be influenced by properties inherent in the pain or pain syndrome, such as its pathophysiology, has evolved into the belief that certain types of pain, e.g., neuropathic pains, may be unresponsive to these drugs. this concept has important implications for both clinical practice and basic understanding of opioid mechanisms. we critically evaluate opioid responsiveness, particularly as it relates to neuropathic pain, and propose a clinically relevant definition and a paradigm for its investigation. the paradigm is illustrated by analgesic responses to opioid infusion in 28 patients with neuropathic pains and by a detailed presentation of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationships in one of these patients, whose central pain responded promptly to an infusion of hydromorphone. from this analysis, we hypothesize that (1) opioid responsiveness in man can be defined by the degree of analgesia achieved during dose escalation to either intolerable side effects or the occurrence of 'complete' or 'adequate' analgesia; (2) opioid responsiveness is a continuum, rather than a quantal phenomenon; (3) opioid responsiveness is determined by a diverse group of patient characteristics and pain-related factors, as well as drug-selective effects; and (4) a neuropathic mechanism may reduce opioid responsiveness, but does not result in an inherent resistance to these drugs. given the complexity of factors contributing to opioid responsiveness and the observation that outcome cannot be reliably predicted, opioids should not be withheld on the assumption that pain mechanism, or any other factor, precludes a favorable response. both the clinical use of opioids and paradigms to investigate opioid responsiveness should include dose escalation to maximally tolerated levels and repeated monitoring of analgesia and other effects.
psychogenic purpura (autoerythrocyte sensitization): an unsolved dilemma. experience at university hospitals of cleveland with 71 cases of gardner and diamond's syndrome of autoerythrocyte sensitization is reviewed. gardner and diamond attributed the pathogenesis of the inflammatory bruises typical of this syndrome to sensitization to the stroma of the patients' own erythrocytes, as demonstrated by reproduction of the lesion on intracutaneous injection of erythrocytic stroma. nearly all the cases my colleagues and i have seen were in adult women, in whom the onset of inflammatory bruising could often be precisely dated, frequently some weeks after an injury or surgical procedure or, more often, severe emotional stress. bouts of bruising were often preceded by sensations localized to the affected site. cutaneous responses to the injection of erythrocytes were erratic. the patients described a wide range of both hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic complaints, including, among others, severe headaches, paresthesias, repeated syncope, diplopia (sometimes monocular), and "nervousness." psychiatric studies indicated that patients had overt depression, sexual problems, feelings of hostility, and obsessive-compulsive behavior. the patients had traits that can be described as typical of a hysterical character disorder. therapy of autoerythrocyte sensitization--that is, psychogenic purpura--has been difficult; in younger individuals, psychiatric therapy has appeared to be beneficial.
incisional hernioplasty with mersilene. thirty large incisional abdominal hernias (myoaponeurotic defects greater than 10 centimeters) were successfully repaired by a technique of incisional hernioplasty which implants a large mersilene (polyester fiber) prosthesis in the space between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum. the prosthesis extends far beyond the borders of the myoaponeurotic defect, and is solidly held in place by intra-abdominal pressure and later by fibrous ingrowth. the prosthesis protects against recurrence in two ways. first, it prevents peritoneal eventration by adhering to the visceral sac and rendering it indistensible. second, the prosthesis unites and consolidates the abdominal wall. consequently, the procedure uniquely exploits the very force which caused the hernia to prevent a recurrence. a prosthesis of mersilene is essential for success because it is supple and elastic enough to conform freely to the curvatures of the visceral sac, has the necessary grainy texture to grip the peritoneum and prevent slippage and is reactive enough to induce a rapid fibroblastic response to ensure fixation.
relation between rectal sensation and anal function in normal subjects and patients with faecal incontinence. the relation between sensory perception of rapid balloon distension of the rectum and the motor responses of the rectum and external and internal anal sphincters in 27 normal subjects and 16 patients with faecal incontinence who had impaired rectal sensation but normal sphincter pressures was studied. in both patients and normal subjects, the onset and duration of rectal sensation correlated closely with the external anal sphincter electrical activity (r = 0.8, p less than 0.0001) and with rectal contraction (r = 0.51, p less than 0.001), but not with internal sphincter relaxation. all normal subjects perceived a rectal sensation within one second of rapid inflation of a rectal balloon with volumes of 20 ml or less air. six patients did not perceive any rectal sensation until 60 ml had been introduced, while in the remaining nine patients the sensation was delayed by at least two seconds. internal sphincter relaxation occurred before the sensation was perceived in three of 27 normal subjects and 11 of 16 patients (p less than 0.001), and could be associated with anal leakage, which stopped as soon as sensation was perceived. the lowest rectal volumes required to induce anal relaxation, to cause sustained relaxation, or to elicit sensations of a desire to defecate or pain were similar in patients and normal subjects. in conclusion, these results show the close association between rectal sensation and external anal sphincter contraction, and show that faecal incontinence may occur as a result of delayed or absent external anal sphincter contraction when the internal anal sphincter is relaxed.
pityriasis lichenoides in children: a long-term follow-up of eighty-nine cases. pityriasis lichenoides is usually classified into an acute and a chronic form. from a review of 89 cases of the disease seen since 1974 it seems that a more realistic classification into three main groups, according to the distribution of pityriasis lichenoides lesions, could be made, namely, a diffuse, a central, and a peripheral form, each characterized by a different clinical course. conversely, no correlations were detected in our series between the severity of skin lesions and their distribution or the overall course of the disease. none of our cases suggests the possible evolution of pityriasis lichenoides into lymphomatoid papulosis. although no infectious causative agent has been identified, a viral origin seems likely in some cases. most patients responded favorably to uvb irradiation. our conclusions are (1) that pityriasis lichenoides is probably a clinical disorder with a diverse etiology and (2) that its classification by distribution seems more useful than its subdivision into an acute and a chronic form.
the pharmacist as a health consultant--ten years later. pharmacists remain a readily accessible and trusted source of information about health. in order to assess the quality of counseling on health matters and the progress of the profession in this activity over the last decade, a study similar to one reported in 1978 was conducted. we visited 46 community pharmacies and requested advice from the pharmacists concerning the proper treatment of an infant with diarrhea. interviewers volunteered no additional information, but questions asked by the pharmacist were answered according to a predetermined hypothetical case involving an 18-month-old infant with diarrhea and vomiting. findings include the following: approximately one-third of the pharmacists recommended a product without caution and less than 20 percent inquired about fever, nausea, vomiting, diet, or the infant's condition. we believe pharmacists should approach health counseling with an increased awareness of the harmful potential in providing inappropriate medical information.
hypertrophic smooth muscle in the partially obstructed opossum esophagus. the model: histological and ultrastructural observations. obstruction is a complication of many esophageal diseases, but the morphological changes occurring in the obstructed esophagus are poorly understood. we developed a model of esophageal obstruction in the american opossum, didelphis virginiana. a nonconstricting band around the gastroesophageal junction led to esophageal distention and tortuosity in the weeks following its placement. despite a marked increase of the esophageal circumference, the esophageal wall was not thinned, and the circular muscle layer had actually increased its thickness. this was due to an increase in the size of individual smooth muscle cells with proportional increases in the cell surface area and volume. the electron density of hypertrophic smooth muscle cells varied much more than that of normal esophageal smooth muscle cells. as cell size increased, the tissue became more compact and the size of the extracellular space decreased. also, the extracellular space was filled by an amorphous electron-dense material. additional changes in the structure of hypertrophic smooth muscle cells included prominent intermediate filaments in the vicinity of thick filaments. there was no difference in the structure of the hypertrophic smooth muscle at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks after placement of the band. the morphological features described here resemble those seen in human esophageal spasm and achalasia of humans and could affect esophageal smooth muscle function.
occurrence of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis with cachexia in a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla in athymic nude mice: a novel experimental model of three concomitant paraneoplastic syndromes. hypercalcemia and leukocytosis may occur in conjunction as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with malignant disease. here we describe a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla that was associated with hypercalcemia and leukocytosis, and also cachexia. the primary tumor was surgically removed and established in permanent cell culture. when either primary tumors or cultured tumor cells were inoculated into nude mice, the nude mice developed the same paraneoplastic syndromes as those which occurred in the patient from whom the tumor was originally derived. the plasma calcium was increased two and one-half-fold and the wbc count 30-fold, and the body weight was decreased by 45% in tumor-bearing animals. each of these paraneoplastic syndromes was alleviated by surgical excision of the tumor, indicating that the paraneoplastic syndromes were due to a factor or factors produced by the primary tumor. the development of each of these paraneoplastic syndromes in nude mice correlated positively with the other two syndromes. we examined the organs of tumor-bearing mice and found striking histopathologic abnormalities in the bones, spleen, and liver, but no infiltration with tumor cells. the bones showed marked evidence of osteoclastic bone resorption. this model of a human tumor associated with the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis paraneoplastic syndrome, together with cachexia, should make it possible to determine the mechanisms responsible for these paraneoplastic syndromes and their relationship to each other.
dorsal root ganglionectomy for failed back surgery syndrome: a 5-year follow-up study. dorsal root ganglionectomy has been suggested as a method for the treatment of chronic intractable radicular pain, with theoretical advantages over dorsal rhizotomy, which does not interrupt ventral root afferents. the indications for these procedures in patients with persistent pain following lumbosacral spine surgery are not well established. long-term results have been reported infrequently, and no published series has a mean follow-up period of more than 30 months. the authors have reviewed their experience with a series of 13 patients with failed back surgery syndrome, in whom dorsal root ganglionectomy was performed. patients were selected on the basis of clinical presentation and diagnostic root blocks suggesting a monoradicular pain syndrome. follow-up data were obtained at a mean of 5.5 years following dorsal root ganglionectomy. follow-up interviews to assess outcome were conducted by a disinterested third party. treatment "success" (at least 50% sustained relief of pain and patient satisfaction with the result) was recorded in two patients at 2 years after surgery and in none at 5.5 years. equivocal success (at least 50% relief, without clearcut patient satisfaction) was recorded in one patient at 2 and at 5.5 years postoperatively. improvements in activities of daily living were recorded in a minority of patients. loss of sensory and motor function was reported frequently by patients. a minority of patients had reduced or eliminated analgesic intake. these results suggest that dorsal root ganglionectomy has a limited role in the management of failed back surgery syndrome, and that methods to select patients to receive this procedure should be refined or alternative approaches should be considered.
maintenance and relapse after weight loss in women: behavioral aspects. obese women who regained weight after successful weight reduction (relapsers, n = 44); formerly obese, average-weight women who maintained weight loss (maintainers, n = 30); and women who had always remained at the same average, nonobese weight (control subjects, n = 34) were interviewed. most maintainers (90%) and control subjects (82%) exercised regularly, were conscious of their behaviors, used available social support (70% and 80%, respectively), confronted problems directly (95% and 60%, respectively), and used personally developed strategies to help themselves. few relapsers exercised (34%), most ate unconsciously in response to emotions (70%), few used available social support (38%), and few confronted problems directly (10%). these findings suggest the advisability of development and prospective evaluation of individualized treatment programs designed to enhance exercise, coping skills, and social support.
hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome--a complication of dactinomycin therapy for wilms' tumor: a report from the united kingdom childrens cancer study group. we have observed hepatopathy, associated with thrombocytopenia, in children receiving chemotherapy for wilms' tumor. we have studied this hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome (hts) in patients enrolled in the united kingdom childrens' cancer study group (ukccsg) wilms' tumor trials (ukw1 and ukw2). at the time of this study, 501 patients had completed therapy. treatment flow sheets were examined for evidence of hepatopathy (hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests) and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than 25 x 10(9)/l). no child who developed the syndrome had received irradiation. hts was seen in five of 355 (1.4%) of patients treated with combination chemotherapy but in none of the 146 patients treated with vincristine alone. in each instance, the onset was less than 10 weeks after diagnosis. in two children, hepatopathy was severe with jaundice, ascites, transaminases greater than 1,000 iu/l, and prolongation of prothrombin time. on average, hts lasted 12 days, and resolved with supportive treatment. after recovery, the children tolerated chemotherapy, mostly at reduced dosage, without recurrence. there was no evident long-term morbidity. dactinomycin is the probable cause of this syndrome. we conclude that the hts is a rare but important complication of dactinomycin-containing combination chemotherapy for wilms' tumor. children developing "isolated" thrombocytopenia following dactinomycin are "at risk" of developing the full-blown syndrome and should have their treatment modified accordingly.
partial duplication of the face: case report and review. complete or partial facial duplication is a rare congenital malformation. a spectrum of structural abnormalities varying in degrees of severity has been described in affected individuals. we present discordance for facial duplication between monozygotic twins in which maxillary and mandibular duplication was present in one. the involved twin showed the following findings: ocular hypertelorism, bifidity of the nose, duplication of the maxilla, macrostomia, cleft of the lower lip, hamartoma of the vomer, supernumerary teeth, duplication of the mandibular teeth, bifidity of the tongue, and hamartoma of the floor of the mouth. surgical management of the facial anomalies is discussed. a review of the literature and discussion of this rare malformation are presented.
effect of lovastatin on intimal hyperplasia after balloon angioplasty: a study in an atherosclerotic hypercholesterolemic rabbit. restenosis, the major limitation of balloon angioplasty, is the result of intimal hyperplasia after the procedure. lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a (hmg-coa) inhibitor, may influence intimal hyperplasia by lowering serum cholesterol and by blocking deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) synthesis. to determine whether lovastatin reduces intimal hyperplasia, a prospective, randomized blinded study was performed in 60 atherosclerotic new zealand white male rabbits. atherosclerosis was produced by air desiccation injury followed by a 28 day diet of 2% cholesterol and 6% peanut oil that was terminated before balloon angioplasty was performed. angioplasty could not be performed in 14 rabbits with bilateral femoral artery occlusion, and in one rabbit the procedure was a technical failure. forty-five rabbits underwent balloon angioplasty performed with use of a 2.5-mm balloon inflated to 10 atm for three 1 min dilations at 1 min intervals. seven rabbits died during the procedure. thirty-eight rabbits were randomized to either a lovastatin group (6 mg/kg body weight per day) or a control group. angioplasty was performed on all patent vessels (n = 54); the procedure was bilateral in 16 rabbits and unilateral in 22. fifteen lovastatin-treated and 15 control rabbits survived 39 days after angioplasty and were then killed. angiograms, obtained before and 10 min and 39 days after balloon angioplasty, were read with use of electronic calipers by two observers who had no knowledge of treatment data. after the rabbits were killed, vessels were pressure perfused using a standardized protocol to maintain in vivo dimensions for blinded quantitative histologic analysis.
morbidity of modified pelvic lymphadenectomy and radiotherapy for prostatic cancer. the records of 63 patients treated by pelvic lymphadenectomy and radiotherapy at the university of tennessee, memphis, baptist memorial hospital of memphis, and the memphis veterans affairs hospital were reviewed. of those patients, 45 received external beam radiation therapy to the prostate while 16 were treated by iodine-125 implantation. two patients had only staging lymphadenectomy. the incidence of postoperative and late complications were analyzed.
dependence among host response parameters used to diagnose urinary tract infection. the host-response parameters fever, c-reactive protein (crp), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr) are activated in concert by cytokines such as interleukin-6 (il-6). il-6 is secreted in response to escherichia coli infection of the urinary tract. this study tested the hypothesis that the level of fever, crp, and esr is coregulated in individual patients. body temperature, crp, esr, pyuria, and renal concentrating capacity were analyzed in 692 children with first-time urinary tract infections. the association of the parameters was evaluated by correlation and multiple regression analysis. the body temperature, crp, and esr were significantly correlated (r = .54, .58, and .58; p less than .001), and variation in crp and esr explained approximately 40% of the variation in fever. in contrast, the renal concentrating capacity and pyruia were weakly or not at all correlated with the febrile response (r = -.22; p less than .001), and less than 10% of the variation in renal concentrating capacity was explained by the other parameters. the results suggest that fever, crp, and esr describe the same aspect of the host response to uti.
capillary hemangiomas and treatment with the flash lamp-pumped pulsed dye laser strawberry, or capillary, hemangiomas are common vascular neoplasms, with an incidence of approximately 2.6% in neonates. they usually develop in the first few weeks of life, so that between 1 month and 1 year the incidence rises to between 8.7% and 10.1%. these lesions may grow quite large in the first year of life, and they may ulcerate or obstruct a vital organ or function. the great majority will spontaneously regress after the first year of life. parents are often alarmed at the sight of these hemangiomas and need reassurance that the great majority will regress spontaneously. treatments such as cryosurgery, irradiation, radium instillation, corticosteroid therapy, or surgical excision are often ineffective or cause significant morbidity. we describe 10 children with capillary hemangiomas treated with the flash lamp-pumped pulsed dye laser. the patients ranged in age from 7 weeks to 5.5 years at the beginning of laser therapy. the patients underwent 3.1 +/- 1 (mean +/- sd) laser treatments, with a mean regression of the lesions of 69.9% +/- 4.5%. all patients demonstrated some diminution in the size and color of their hemangiomas after the treatments, and there were no ill effects, such as ulceration, hemorrhage, infection, or scarring. there was no evidence of hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation. pulsed dye laser therapy should be considered as an option in the treatment of capillary hemangiomas, preferably prior to their full evolution. it is also a useful therapeutic approach in those hemangiomas that are slow to regress in older children.
advances in cluster headache. the physician may have to combine the art and science of medicine in the management of this most fascinating of human ailments. the choice of drugs and the length of treatment prescribed are greatly influenced by the individual physician's experience, convictions, and reasoning. needless to say, chronic use of narcotics should be avoided. the author's own regimen is to use combinations of ergotamine prophylaxis with either verapamil or prednisone in episodic cluster headache and with lithium for chronic cluster headache. management of the treatment-resistant patient remains problematic, but a carefully performed trigeminal radiofrequency thermocoagulation procedure may be worthwhile.
rebleeding from intracranial dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery. we describe two patients with rebleeding from intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms during the acute stage. one patient had excellent results after emergency surgery. a review of recent reports including 60 patients with this disorder revealed a rebleeding rate of 30%, mostly during the acute stage. this suggests that a ruptured dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery is at risk for rebleeding during the acute stage, similar to a saccular aneurysm in the same location.
ventilatory and diffusion abnormalities in potential heart transplant recipients. few data are available concerning pulmonary function in patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure. of 315 patients evaluated for potential cardiac transplantation at ucla, 132 underwent pulmonary function tests. the latter patients had severe heart failure with a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 19 percent and mean cardiac index of 2.1 l/min/m2. diffusion impairment either alone or combined with restrictive and/or obstructive ventilatory defects occurred in 67 percent of the patients evaluated. diffusion impairment occurred as the sole abnormality in 31 percent of the patients and in combination with a restrictive ventilatory defect in 21 percent. a reduction in diffusing capacity has not been previously described as a frequent finding in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. in contrast to other studies involving patients with acute heart failure, obstructive ventilatory defects were uncommon. none of the lung function abnormalities was associated with smoking status, prior drug use, chest roentgenographic changes, hemodynamic findings, or clinical features, including duration of congestive heart failure. the mechanism for the diffusion impairment is unclear but could be due to chronic passive congestion with pulmonary fibrosis and/or recurrent pulmonary emboli. recognition of diffusion impairment as a common finding in patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure who are candidates for heart transplantation is important for proper interpretation of possible post-transplant changes in diffusing capacity due to other causes.
hereditary ovarian cancer. heterogeneity in age at diagnosis. an unknown fraction of the ovarian cancer burden occurs in women with a family history indicative of a putative autosomal dominantly inherited cancer susceptibility syndrome. the results from a five-generation, extended, hereditary breast-ovarian cancer kindred are described 10 years after it was initially ascertained. significantly more cancers were observed in high-risk family members during this decade than were expected (p less than 0.001). the age of ovarian cancer diagnosis was studied in additional ovarian cancer-prone families of three types: site-specific ovarian cancer syndrome, the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome, and lynch syndrome ii. the age of onset in each of the three sets was significantly (p less than 0.001) earlier than the general population mean of 59, and there were significant differences in the age of onset (p = 0.050) among these three cohorts. ovarian cancer histology was similar to that of patients with negative family histories. there may be clinically significant heterogeneity in the age at diagnosis of ovarian cancer among these ovarian cancer-prone syndromes. this has important implications for understanding its natural history and targeting surveillance-management strategies.
role of surgery in antibiotic-induced pseudomembranous enterocolitis. with the increased use of prophylactic and broad-spectrum antibiotics, pseudomembranous colitis has emerged as a significant clinical problem. management with specific anti-clostridium difficile therapy (vancomycin or metronidazole) has reduced mortality to less than 2%. nevertheless, the disease may progress to a fulminant toxic colitis or colonic perforation. additionally, another subset of patients will present with a dramatic clinical picture, suggesting acute peritonitis, eventuating in unnecessary laparotomy. this report reviews both the medical and surgical literature during the past 15 years of patients treated for pseudomembranous colitis. analysis of this clinical data has provided us with the opportunity to both define the role of surgery in this disorder and illustrate the necessity for a combined medical and surgical cooperative approach in the early management of this iatrogenic disease.
crystalluria, medullary matrix crystal deposits and bladder calculi associated with an acutely induced renal papillary necrosis. a single (100 mg/kg) intraperitoneal dose of 2-bromoethanamine hydrobromide induced renal papillary necrosis (rpn) acutely in rodents and caused a transient crystalluria between 4 and 8 h after dosing. these crystals comprised struvite or magnesium ammonium phosphate (map) as assessed by shape, solubility, infra-red spectrum and x-ray microprobe analysis. acid-soluble, bi-refringent crystals were also present within the renal medullary matrix during the same time period as the crystalluria. the presence of the map was associated with loss of the anionic renal medullary mucopolysaccharides staining. a total of 5/64 rats with a 2-bromoethanamine-induced renal papillary necrosis and monitored for up to 160 days had bladder calculi that were predominantly map. these data suggest that medullary mucopolysaccharide matrix disruption associated with rpn leads to a release of previously bound cations, super-saturation and the nucleation of crystalline map. these processes could also be implicated in the formation of map bladder calculi.
urinary tissue factor activity in colorectal disease. procoagulant activity (pca) in normal urine has been recognized for over 50 years. although tissue factor (tf) is produced by certain tumours, and is increased in both tumour-associated macrophages and blood monocytes, the possibility that it might also be increased in urine has not been studied in patients with cancer. we have measured urinary pca in hospital controls without inflammatory or neoplastic disease (n = 79), in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (n = 8), inflammatory bowel disease (n = 19), colorectal cancer (n = 70) and in patients undergoing colonoscopy (n = 50). urinary pca was higher (p less than 0.001) in patients with colorectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease than controls or patients with rheumatoid arthritis. fourteen (88 per cent) out of 16 colonoscopy patients subsequently found to have carcinoma or inflammatory bowel disease had levels above the control upper quartile, compared with 8 (24 per cent) out of 34 with normal colonoscopy (p less than 0.001). tf inhibitors confirmed the nature of the pca and western blotting studies indicated a urinary tf molecular weight of approximately 38,000. these studies provide further evidence of abnormal haemostasis in malignancy and suggest that determination of urinary tf may provide a useful screening test in patients undergoing colonoscopy.
cells immunoreactive for neuropeptide in human thymomas. the presence of opioid peptides, bombesin, and substance p was investigated by immunohistochemistry in tissue sections from six human thymomas. the number of immunoreactive cells seemed to vary from one case to another. ultrastructural investigation, showing the presence of desmosomes in labelled cells, allowed these cells to be classified as epithelial lineage cells. the occurrence of cells containing neuropeptide in thymomas suggest that peptide molecules could have modulated the behaviour of this tumour, given the reported influence of these molecules on immune functions and their growth promoting activity on several cell types, including mesenchymal and epithelial cells.
characteristics and biological role of steroid hormone receptors in neuroepithelial tumors tissue samples from 57 patients with neuroepithelial tumors (25 glioblastomas, 18 anaplastic astrocytomas, and 14 astrocytomas) were analyzed in order to evaluate the presence of estrogen, progesterone, glucocorticoid, and androgen receptors. glucocorticoid- and androgen-specific binding proteins were present in 38.6% and 21.6% of the cases, respectively. only a few tumors showed estrogen or progesterone receptors. a correlation was found between grade of anaplasia, patient's sex and age, and presence of glucocorticoid and androgen receptors. the biological role of these two receptors was investigated in 10 primary cell cultures derived from neuroepithelial tumors. for this purpose, dexamethasone and testosterone were added to culture medium at different concentrations (from 50 to 0.016 micrograms/ml). a significant stimulation of the cell growth was observed in four of five glucocorticoid receptor-positive cultures when dexamethasone in doses ranging from 2 to 0.016 microgram/ml was added to the culture. no modulation of the growth was observed in glucocorticoid receptor-negative cultures at the same doses. higher dexamethasone doses induced a significant decrease of the growth index independently from the glucocorticoid receptor status. all of the cultures tested for testosterone activity were negative for androgen receptors. this hormone induced an inhibition of the growth index at doses ranging from 50 to 0.4 micrograms/ml. the data suggest that neuroepithelial tumors contain specific glucocorticoid and androgen binding proteins. glucocorticoid receptors modulate the growth of cultured neuroepithelial tumors in the presence of different concentrations of dexamethasone.
preseason strength and flexibility imbalances associated with athletic injuries in female collegiate athletes. one hundred thirty-eight female collegiate athletes, participating in eight weightbearing varsity sports, were administered preseason strength and flexibility tests and followed for injuries during their sports seasons. strength was measured as the maximal isokinetic torque of the right and left knee flexors and knee extensors at 30 and 180 deg/sec. flexibility was measured as the active range of motion of several lower body joints. an athletic trainer evaluated and recorded injuries occurring to the athletes in practice or competition. forty percent of the women suffered one or more injuries. athletes experienced more lower extremity injuries if they had: 1) a right knee flexor 15% stronger than the left knee flexor at 180 deg/sec; 2) a right hip extensor 15% more flexible than the left hip extensor; 3) a knee flexor/knee extensor ratio of less than 0.75 at 180 deg/sec. there was a trend for higher injury rates to be associated with knee flexor or hip extensor imbalances of 15% or more on either side of the body. these data demonstrate that specific strength and flexibility imbalances are associated with lower extremity injuries in female collegiate athletes.
reasons why mastectomy patients do not have breast reconstruction. breast reconstruction after mastectomy is valuable, yet only a small percentage of eligible patients ever have reconstruction. little has been done to determine why so few patients proceed with reconstructive surgery. a homogeneous population of mastectomy patients, some of whom underwent breast reconstruction while others did not, were surveyed regarding their attitudes about breast reconstruction. a total of 245 women were surveyed. one-hundred and fifty-eight (64 percent) responded, 71 of whom had been reconstructed while 87 had not. comparison of the responses of the two groups suggests factors that play a role in determining whether the mastectomy patient will accept or decline the option of breast reconstruction. considerations that made it less likely that a woman would pursue reconstruction included advanced age at the time of mastectomy, concern about complications from further surgery, uncertainty about outcome, and fear about the effect of reconstruction on future problems with breast cancer. marital status, receiving chemotherapy, or knowing a patient who had a bad result from reconstruction did not affect the decision. an awareness and understanding of these factors may be helpful to physicians in counseling patients and in increasing the number of women who enjoy the benefits of breast reconstruction.
maternal genomic neutrophil fcriii deficiency leading to neonatal isoimmune neutropenia. the healthy mother of a child with transient immune neutropenia was found to be "na-null." the mother's neutrophils did not react with anti-na1 and anti-na2 antibodies (polyclonal human alloantibodies and mouse monoclonal antibodies). a healthy donor was discovered during routine neutrophil antigen typing whose neutrophils were also "na-null." this na-phenotype was due to the absence of fcriii (cd16 antigen) on neutrophils as demonstrated with anti-fcriii monoclonal antibodies. the neutrophils of these two individuals were not able to bind dimeric immunoglobulin g. however, their cells had a normal expression of other phosphatidylinositol (pi)-linked membrane glycoprotein (cd24, cd67, and clb gran/5 antigens), ruling out the existence of a pi-linkage defect, such as paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. the mother (propsitus) had isoantibodies in her blood against neutrophil-fcriii without allospecificity, apparently produced during pregnancy and responsible for the neutropenia of her child. the expression of fcriii on natural killer lymphocytes of both individuals was normal. fcriii is encoded by two separate genes, one (fcriii-1) for the neutrophil-pi-linked receptor, another (fcriii-2) for the natural killer cell and macrophage-transmembrane receptor. by messenger rna and dna analysis (with an fcriii-cdna probe and restriction endonucleases) the neutrophil-fcriii deficiency appeared to be due to deletion of the fcriii-1 gene in both individuals, while the fcriii-2 gene was normally present. the parents of the propositus were found to be heterozygous for this defect. thus, fcriii-1 gene deficiency of the mother may be a cause of (iso)immune neutropenia of the newborn. whether this deficiency may have other clinical consequences has to be studied.
congenital duodenal diaphragm: conversion of stable chronic symptoms to subacute gastric outlet obstruction by penetrating foreign body. congenital duodenal diaphragms (cdd) are rare lesions that usually become symptomatic and require surgery in childhood. we report a patient, who, although symptomatic since early childhood, had accommodated to the condition and finally required surgical correction in late life after an ingested foreign body traumatized the diaphragm, producing subacute gastric outlet obstruction. the condition, including the reconstruction of the precipitating event, was diagnosed endoscopically prior to surgery.
somatosensory-evoked potential monitored during total hip arthroplasty. one hundred consecutive patients were monitored using somatosensory-evoked potential (sep) monitoring to detect intraoperative sciatic nerve compromise during total hip arthroplasty. the peroneal nerve was stimulated using the contralateral extremity to rule out systemic influences on the sep tracings. loss of amplitude or an increase in latency of greater than 10% was considered significant. of the 18 patients who exhibited changes that met these criteria, 16 were female. two patients had loss of amplitude of the tracings at the time of closure, and both of these patients exhibited postoperative sciatic nerve palsies. there were no false negatives. femoral reaming and reduction are the surgical events most commonly associated with nerve reactions. patients who have had prior hip procedures appear to be at higher risk. there was no correlation with intraoperative sep changes and age, weight, surgical approach, or leg lengthening. compared with unmonitored patients, there was no reduction in the incidence of sciatic palsy.
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma: a phase ii study. forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) intravenously (iv) every 4 hours separated by 1 week. this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2/lak working group. patient eligibility criteria, and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial. forty-six patients were assessable for response. objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients (two complete responses [crs], eight partial responses [prs]) or 22% with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites. the median response duration was 8 months. toxicity was significant; three patients developed myocardial infarction, and one patient died during therapy. overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial. these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans, and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2.
optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia. continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure. the purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention. optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients. factors common to series with excellent results, such as patient selection and operative technique, are examined, and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease, which continue to plague even the best surgical series, are discussed.
botulinum toxin treatment in spasmodic torticollis. botulinum toxin a was administered to 19 patients in a double-blind placebo controlled trial. toxin was more effective than placebo for improving both head position and pain which was measured by an objective rating scale and videofilm assessments. following the controlled trial, treatment with botulinum toxin was continued in an open fashion. a total of 60 patients with torticollis received toxin in a total of 117 treatment periods. the mean follow up period was 8.4 months. in 39 patients with pain there was benefit in 77% of treatment periods. some improvement in neck posture occurred in 83% of the treatment periods with a mean duration of 12 weeks. side effects were frequent with dysphagia being the most common (28% of treatment periods). botulinum toxin is an effective treatment for toticollis but treatment should be initiated with doses at the lower end of the range used in this study (400-600 mouse units).
growth of cultured human cerebral meningiomas is inhibited by dopaminergic agents. presence of high affinity dopamine-d1 receptors. we have found that microm concentrations of the dopamine agonist bromocriptine significantly decrease the proliferation rate of human meningioma cells in culture (25-56% inhibition). this effect was also seen with direct application of dopamine, as well as the dopamine-d1 agonist (+)-skf-38393 (both applied in microm concentrations) to meningioma cell cultures. receptor studies with the dopamine-d1 ligand (125i)sch-23982 (dopamine-d1 antagonist) indicated that dopamine-d1 binding sites were present in the membranes of meningioma tissue. the mean dissociation constant (kd) was 325 ( +/- 74.5 sem) pm and the receptor density (bmax) was 25.4 ( +/- 1.5 sem) fmol/mg pellet protein in 5 human meningiomas. the pharmacological specificity was proven by (+)-skf-38393, ( +/-skf-83566 or (+)-butaclamol and their inactive isomers (-)-skf-38393 and (-)-butaclamol in a 1000 fold excess. these results provide evidence that human meningiomas possess high affinity dopamine-d1 receptors and that dopamine agonists have an antiproliferative effect on these tumors in culture. we conclude that the proliferation of cerebral meningiomas may be under dopaminergic control and that dopamine agonists may have a role in the medical treatment of patients with meningiomas.
neurotologic findings in basilar migraine. treatment of a patient with otologic symptoms and associated migraine-like headache presents the otolaryngologist with formidable problems. although clinical practice and scientific publications recognize their frequent association, relationships have yet to be well defined. this study seeks to add order to disarray by delineating symptoms and signs of a clearly identified group of migraine patients. fifty patients with well-defined basilar migraine underwent a thorough neurotologic examination, as well as comprehensive auditory and vestibular testing. patients were selected from 5880 patients seen over a 2-year period and were prospectively entered into the study after detailed questionnaires and testing were completed for each patient. the most common symptoms found were dysequilibrium, phonophobia, and head pressure. the most common signs were positional nystagmus, low-frequency hearing loss, abnormal loudness discomfort level, and an abnormality on caloric examination. advanced vestibular testing showed abnormal amplitude scaling, abnormal toes-down pertubation, and an abnormal sway (condition 6) on dynamic posturography. there was frequently an asymmetry on computerized rotation. the author concludes that the majority of patients have subtle findings on testing, but a few have severe peripheral injury due to the basilar migraine. findings are consistent with the theory that basilar migraine is a central nervous system maladaptation syndrome which creates otoneurologic symptoms and, in a small percentage of cases, may injure the peripheral end-organ.
hemodynamic effects of a new right ventricular assist device. a right ventricular assist device (vad) based on the principle of counterpulsation has been developed at our institution. the device is a valveless, pneumatically actuated, 40 cc, sac-type pump, with a single inlet-outlet port. for right ventricular support, the "uniport" pump is anastamosed end-to-side to the pulmonary artery. in previous experimental trials, the device has been shown to impart minimal trauma to blood components. in this study, biventricular failure was induced in eight holstein calves by normothermic ischemia during cardiopulmonary bypass. a pierce-donachy left vad (lvad) was used for left ventricular support following the ischemic insult. hemodynamic measurements were obtained throughout the study, and each animal served as its own control. a significant increase in post injury cardiac output (33.5 +/- 11.4%) was obtained with use of the uniport and lvad, as compared to use of the lvad alone (p less than or equal to 0.005). other hemodynamic parameters of right heart failure, including right atrial pressure (rap), pulmonary artery pressure (pap), and left atrial pressure (lap) were not significantly affected. these data suggest that the uniport right ventricular assist device significantly improves cardiac output in this model of moderate right ventricular failure. additional studies are required, however, to optimize pump stroke volume, and to further define the performance envelope of the device.
evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism. recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism. experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models. we have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer. briefly, the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts (rat-1 cells) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone. fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic fisher rats. human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone (1-84), which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone. these rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week. levels increase progressively, often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection. serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl. in this study, 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection. examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption. examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts. there was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems, but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes, primarily in subepicardial region. this model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia.
the association of carotid artery stenosis with carotid sinus hypersensitivity. transitory cerebral ischaemic attack provoked by carotid sinus reflex the association of internal carotid stenosis with the carotid sinus syndrome represents a special clinical entity. transitory cerebral ischaemic attack (tia) will usually be manifested by activation of carotid sinus reflex. eighteen patients were observed suffering from both carotid sinus hypersensitivity and tia. the patients had had tia's for many years. unilateral internal carotid stenosis was detected in 15 cases, while 3 patients had bilateral carotid stenosis. on carotid sinus stimulation, syncope appeared and a tia could be provoked. the mean duration of the syncopic attack was 5500 ms and was based on sinus arrest in 14 cases and on third degree av block in 4 cases. in all patients carotid artery disobliteration was performed; in 14 patients pacemaker implantation was necessary, while 4 patients could be treated by atropine medication. the development of a tia could be abolished in every patient and 14 patients remained totally symptom free.
would you recognize celiac axis syndrome? since its original description, celiac axis syndrome has been a topic of debate. clinical findings include postprandial abdominal pain, weight loss, and an epigastric bruit. diagnosis is often made by exclusion and is confirmed by lateral aortography. the role of surgery in treating celiac axis syndrome is controversial.
visceral perception in health and functional dyspepsia. crossover study of gastric distension with placebo and domperidone. the symptoms of functional dyspepsia are still unexplained. to evaluate the possible role of abnormal visceral perception, we studied the symptomatic responses and the pressure variations during progressive gastric distension in 10 female healthy control subjects (mean age 33.6 years) and in 10 female patients with functional dyspepsia (mean age 35.2 years). a rubber balloon was positioned 4 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter (les) and inflated with progressively larger volumes of air by steps of 50 ml; pressures at the gastric fundus and at the les were continuously recorded by perfused manometric catheters. each subject was studied on two separate occasions after randomized double-blind administration of either placebo or 20 mg of domperidone. symptomatic responses and the manometric data were analyzed at the time of the initial recognition of distension (bloating step) and at the time of reporting pain or up to a maximum of 700 ml of balloon inflation (pain or 700-ml step). on placebo, the volumes of gastric distension were more than two times lower in patients than in control subjects at the bloating step (185 +/- 32 ml vs 470 +/- 40 ml, p = 0.001) and at the pain or 700-ml step (265 +/- 54 ml vs 600 +/- 34 ml, p less than 0.005), while the pressure gradients (pressure at inflation steps minus baseline pressure before beginning inflation) were not statistically different between the two groups.
differential therapy with calcium antagonists in pulmonary hypertension secondary to copd. hemodynamic effects of nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil. in 53 patients with copd and precapillary pulmonary hypertension, we investigated the effect of three typical calcium antagonists on hemodynamics at rest and during bicycle ergometer exercise. in the responders, the decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance following nifedipine was 23 percent at rest (p less than 0.0005) and 35 percent during exercise (p less than 0.0005); following diltiazem, it was 10 percent at rest (p less than 0.05) and 23 percent during exercise (p less than 0.025); following verapamil, it was 22 percent at rest (p less than 0.005) and 11 percent during exercise (p less than 0.025). the cardiac index rose significantly at rest and under exercise only after the administration of nifedipine (+16 percent and +8 percent, resp). nifedipine caused the most distinctive peripheral vasodilation. the heart rate increased slightly following nifedipine and decreased slightly following diltiazem and verapamil. after long-term therapy with nifedipine (13 +/- 5 months), the decrease in pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance was no longer significant. in our opinion, the different hemodynamic action profiles will have consequences for the differential therapy in patients with copd and pulmonary hypertension.
thrombosis in a congenitally bifurcated superior sagittal sinus. a 26-year-old woman had a peripartum venous thrombotic stroke involving the right parietal lobe. the initial thrombus was present only in the right channel of a congenitally bifurcated superior sagittal sinus. this diagnosis and subsequent thrombus extension were readily shown by magnetic resonance imaging in contrast to equivocal angiography. a subsequent, prospective review of 100 patients undergoing cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed the presence of similarly bifurcated superior sagittal sinuses in two. the patient stabilized after therapy with intravenous heparin, but switching her medication to oral warfarin sodium was followed by clinical deterioration and propagation of the thrombus, necessitating resumption of intravenous heparin. no coagulopathy was identified.
advances in noninvasive detection of cad. advances in the noninvasive detection of myocardial ischemia are increasing our ability to diagnose coronary artery disease (cad). tomographic (spect) thallium imaging provides better identification of coronary arteries with atherosclerotic narrowing. increased lung thallium uptake and transient ischemic dilatation of the heart are additional markers of severe cad. late thallium imaging, as well as reinjection imaging, provides more accurate identification of myocardial ischemia. finally, new myocardial ischemia. finally, new myocardial imaging agents, such as technetium tc 99m sestamibi (cardiolite), should improve detection of cad by noninvasive methods.
analysis of interferon-inducible genes in cells of chronic myeloid leukemia patients responsive or resistant to an interferon-alpha treatment. recombinant human interferon-alpha (ifn-alpha) can induce a hematologic remission in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. however, some patients are resistant and others develop late resistance to the ifn-alpha treatment. to understand the molecular mechanism of this resistance, we have analyzed the expression of 10 ifn-inducible genes in the cells of three resistant patients, two responsive patients, and six healthy controls. northern blot hybridizations showed that all the genes were induced in in vitro ifn-alpha treated peripheral blood cells of the patients and healthy controls. these genes were also inducible in peripheral blood and bone marrow cells of two out of two resistant patients administered an injection of ifn-alpha. we conclude that the resistance to the ifn-alpha treatment of the chronic myeloid leukemia patients we studied is not due to (1) the absence of induction of any of the 10 ifn-inducible genes we studied, including the low-molecular-weight 2'-5'oligoadenylate synthetase; (2) the presence of an antagonist of ifn-alpha in the peripheral blood or bone marrow cells; and (3) the presence of neutralizing anti-ifn-alpha antibodies.
thyroidectomy under local anesthesia. thyroidectomy for benign and malignant disease is most commonly performed with the patient under general anesthesia, although the literature is sprinkled with reports of series of operations performed using local anesthetic techniques. a retrospective review of 43 sequential thyroidectomies compares 21 performed using local anesthesia with 22 performed using general anesthesia. no significant difference was demonstrated in the incidence of major complications. all patients who required a second operation to remove the remaining hemithyroid after the final pathology reports were reviewed elected local anesthesia for their second procedure, attesting to patient satisfaction. some hemithyroidectomies performed using local anesthesia were outpatient procedures. the indications, guidelines for patient selection, and operative technique of this effective alternative approach to thyroid surgery are presented.
detection of bcr-abl fusion in chronic myelogeneous leukemia by in situ hybridization. chronic myelogeneous leukemia (cml) is genetically characterized by fusion of the bcr and abl genes on chromosomes 22 and 9, respectively. in most cases, the fusion involves a reciprocal translocation t(9;22)(q34;q11), which produces the cytogenetically distinctive philadelphia chromosome (ph1). fusion can be detected by southern (dna) analysis or by in vitro amplification of the messenger rna from the fusion gene with polymerase chain reaction (pcr). these techniques are sensitive but cannot be applied to single cells. two-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish) was used with probes from portions of the bcr and abl genes to detect the bcr-abl fusion in individual blood and bone marrow cells from six patients. the fusion event was detected in all samples analyzed, of which three were cytogenetically ph1-negative. one of the ph1-negative samples was also pcr-negative. this approach is fast and sensitive, and provides potential for determining the frequency of the abnormality in different cell lineages.
creutzfeldt-jakob disease in pituitary growth hormone recipients in the united states. to assess the magnitude of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) occurrence among recipients of pituitary-derived human growth hormone (hgh), we conducted an epidemiologic follow-up of 6284 recipients of hgh distributed through the national hormone and pituitary program. seven neuropathologically confirmed cases of cjd have occurred in this population to date: six patients with clinical cjd presented with ataxia and imbalance, rather than with altered mentation, which is the most common initial manifestation in sporadic cjd, and one patient died in the preclinical incubation state of the disease. all seven cases occurred among the nearly 700 hgh recipients who started therapy before 1970. since only 10% of the cohort has been followed up for the 15-year average incubation interval from midpoint of hgh treatment to onset of symptoms, the great majority of potentially exposed patients have not yet attained the requisite incubation period for expression of cjd. the median duration of hgh therapy of 100 months in the cjd cases was significantly longer than 41 months for all patients starting treatment before 1970; thus, the duration of pituitary hgh therapy is a major risk factor for cjd.
l-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid l-tryptophan. we describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental l-tryptophan. exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints, and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the l-tryptophan supplements. the mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed.
assessing the clinical effectiveness of preventive maneuvers: analytic principles and systematic methods in reviewing evidence and developing clinical practice recommendations. a report by the canadian task force on the periodic health examination. this paper examines a process for evaluating clinical effectiveness and developing recommendations in which systematic methods are used to review evidence from published clinical research and to reach sound conclusions about appropriate medical policy. the methodology addresses four important components of the analytic process: (1) the criteria that must be satisfied for a clinical practice to be considered effective; (2) proper methods for reviewing evidence from published clinical research to determine whether a clinical practice meets these criteria (including methods for performing comprehensive literature reviews, for judging the quality of individual studies, and for synthesizing or pooling the results of multiple studies); (3) theoretical and practical concerns in translating the results of the scientific review into sound clinical practice recommendations; and (4) the importance of documentation, guidelines, and other safeguards to minimize the effect the reviewers themselves have on the objectivity and consistency of the analytic methods.
clinical results of axillobifemoral bypass using externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene seventy-six axillobifemoral grafts with externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene prostheses were performed since 1983. the indications for operation were absolute (aortic sepsis) in 20 (26%) patients and relative (excessive operative risk or technical difficulty) in 56 (74%) patients. the life-table primary patency for these operations at 4 years follow-up (mean follow-up, 2 years, 4 months) was 85%. we conclude that the patency results achieved in this patient series are sufficiently satisfactory to warrant use of axillobifemoral grafts in an expanded number of patients with high operative risk and need for bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease.
hepatic dynamic sequential ct: section enhancement profiles with a bolus of ionic and nonionic contrast agents. the enhancement characteristics in different portions of the liver during dynamic sequential bolus computed tomography (ct) with iodinated contrast material (dsbct) were prospectively evaluated in 75 patients by using iothalamate meglumine, iopamidol, and iohexol (25 patients received each agent). after baseline noncontrast ct was performed, dsbct was performed with a 180-ml intravenous bolus administered at 2 ml/sec. scanning was started 25 seconds after the bolus was initiated, by using a 3-second scan time and rapid cephalocaudal table incrementation, yielding contiguous 8-mm-thick sections at a rate of nine sections per minute. on postcontrast images, peak enhancement was 115% for iopamidol and 117% for iohexol, both of which were superior to iothalamate meglumine at 95% (p less than .05). after peaking, enhancement then decreased for all three contrast agents, although the decline was more precipitous for iothalamate meglumine. enhancement on the more caudal sections with both iopamidol and iohexol was superior to that with iothalamate meglumine (p less than .05). the data suggest that the enhancement characteristics for the two nonionic agents may be more optimal for detection of focal hepatic lesions than the ionic agent.
anxiety levels and cancer fear in patients admitted for elective operations. patients who are to have elective operations project varying degrees of anxiety, and many spontaneously express fear (without basis) that their operation involves a diagnosis of malignancy. to measure total, covert, and overt anxiety objectively, we gave the institute for personality and ability testing anxiety test to 125 consecutive patients admitted for elective general surgical procedures. a simple survey of cancer fear was also completed. chi-square and fisher's exact test were used to compare categoric data, and linear regression and analysis of variance were used where appropriate. total anxiety scores were in the upper quartile compared to the general population. scores indicating fear of cancer were elevated in 75% of patients who had no history of or reason to suspect malignancy. covert anxiety scores correlated with cancer fear scores, and both significantly decreased as age increased (p less than .05). also, as age increased, the cancer fear scores decreased (p less than .002). obese patients had higher scores of cancer fear than all other patients (p less than .0001).
mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients: findings at cholangiography, ct, and us. the case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated. all patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation. cholangiographic, ultrasound (us), and computed tomography (ct) images were available for review in eight, five, and four patients, respectively. cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients. us and ct showed fairly well- to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients, respectively. the findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant. ct and us images may offer confirmatory evidence.
prognosis of patients with ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and a normal electrophysiologic study. the outcome of 26 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia (n = 16) or ventricular fibrillation (n = 10) and no inducible ventricular tachycardia (less than or equal to 10 beats) by baseline programmed stimulation was studied. coronary artery disease was present in 14 patients, dilated cardiomyopathy was seen in seven, valvular heart disease was present in two, and no apparent cardiac abnormalities were found in three. the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 53 +/- 14%. during the follow-up period of 24 +/- 16 months, actuarial survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 95% and 89% for sudden death and 95% and 83% for total cardiac death, respectively. no patients with a known ejection fraction greater than 30% died suddenly during the follow-up. noninducibility by programmed stimulation in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation is associated with a relatively preserved ventricular function. it may predict a low risk of sudden death in patients with preserved ventricular function.
grafting of venous leg ulcers. an intraindividual comparison between cultured skin equivalents and full-thickness skin punch grafts. skin equivalents that consisted of a noncontracted collagen gel populated with allogeneic fibroblasts and covered with autologous cultured keratinocytes were used for grafting venous leg ulcers. the results were compared in the same patient with those obtained with a routinely used standard method of grafting with autologous full-thickness punch grafts. the skin equivalents and the punch grafts were grafted successfully in four of five patients. the median healing time of ulcers grafted with skin equivalents was 18 days whereas that of ulcers covered with punch grafts was 15 days. the cosmetic appearance of the skin equivalent-grafted ulcers was better than that of the punch-grafted ulcers.
a risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy: effect of changes in compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome. a bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed to prevent ovarian cancer. the assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine oophorectomy. published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate that compliance is less than perfect. this fact could affect the overall outcome. decision analysis techniques with markov cohort modeling were used to evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy. results from studies judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease, breast cancer, and osteoporotic fracture. the decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance. when compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect, oophorectomy yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries. when actual drug-taking behavior is considered, retaining the ovaries results in longer survival. this analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed.
low-dose heparinization can be used with deae-cellulose hemodialysis membranes. the ability of deae-cellulose (hemophan) membranes to bind heparin may reduce bioavailable heparin and predispose to dialyzer clotting, thus preventing use of hemophan with low-dose heparin. to examine this possibility, residual blood volumes were determined following 95 treatments with dialyzers containing hemophan membranes in 11 patients. no heparin was added to the saline used to prime the dialyzers. the anticoagulant effect of heparin was measured using recalcified activated clotting times (ract). two heparin doses, calculated by a pharmacokinetic model to increase baseline ract by 12.5% and 25%, were used for each patient. the mean heparin loading doses were 10.2 +/- 2.8 and 15.3 +/- 2.2 iu/kg, respectively, and the mean infusion rates were 11.1 +/- 3.2 and 14.7 +/- 3.2 iu/kg/h, respectively. residual blood volumes were determined by red cell lysis and hemoglobinometry. in 88 treatments, residual blood volume averaged 1.6 +/- 1.5 ml. in the other seven treatments, residual blood volume greater than 10 ml was seen. in five of these cases, clotting appeared to propagate from the arterial drip chamber. residual blood volume did not correlate with the level of heparin. the data show that low-dose heparin can be used with hemophan membranes, and suggest that blood tubing design may be an important factor in blood circuit clotting during hemodialysis.
decompensation after cotrel-dubousset instrumentation of idiopathic scoliosis. spinal decompensation after corrective surgery for scoliosis appears to be a significant problem after cotrel-dubousset instrumentation (cdi). cdi produces torsional changes in the instrumented and uninstrumented spine that could result in spinal imbalance. preoperative and postoperative three-dimensional analysis including computed tomography (ct) scans to measure vertebral rotation and segmental rotation were performed to evaluate the importance of torsional changes. moe/king type ii deformities had a substantially greater risk of imbalance. deformities instrumented over fewer spinal segments were less likely to decompensate. specifically, instrumentation excluding the mobile transition segment, determined by maximum segmental rotation and segmental cobb angle, was likely to decompensate. derotation and deformity correction excessive in relation to preoperative side bending flexibility and segmental rotation frequently resulted in imbalance. spinal imbalance after cdi can be reduced by avoiding overcorrection and inclusion of mobile transition segments.
does blood rheology revert to normal after myocardial infarction? after myocardial infarction there is an acute deterioration of the flow properties of blood. the present study was designed to test whether the abnormality persists. blood and plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation and deformability, haematocrit, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, white cell count, cholesterol, and triglycerides were measured in 51 patients who had had a myocardial infarction 5.4 (mean) years before. results in patients and controls were compared and matched pairs with identical cardiovascular risk factors were also selected. blood viscosity and red cell aggregation were increased and red cell deformability was decreased in the 51 patients. the abnormalities were independent of the interval since infarction and persisted for years. the rheological abnormalities present after myocardial infarction are at least partly independent of the acute event and acute phase reactions. they contribute to the reduced perfusion of the microcirculation of the heart.
possible transmission of serum hepatitis in liver surgery with the ultrasonic dissector. when the ultrasonic dissector is used during liver surgery, the possibility exists of the transmission of virus to the attending hospital personnel because of unavoidable splashing of the irrigating solution. it becomes apparent from this study that the titer of hepatitis b surface antigen in the aspirated irrigating solution is almost the same level as that in the serum. we therefore strongly recommend that eye shields should be used in hepatic surgery when the ultrasonic dissector is in use.
microprocessor-assisted solvent-transfer system for gallstone dissolution. in vitro and in vivo validation. to improve the efficacy, safety, and convenience of contact dissolution of gallbladder stones, a microprocessor-assisted solvent transfer system was developed. the system's two pumps simultaneously infuse and aspirate solvent into and from the gallbladder at a high flow rate through a multilumen catheter. the microprocessor controls the pumps using a closed feedback loop control algorithm to regulate intragallbladder pressure to prevent solvent escape into the duodenum. turbulent solvent flow at the catheter end in the gallbladder is designed to induce rapid stone dissolution and to suspend insoluble residue, thus promoting its aspiration. the system's response and gallbladder emptying capacity was 160-fold faster than the natural gallbladder emptying rate. the rate at which gallstones were dissolved by methyl tert-butyl ether using the system was compared with that achieved with a syringe pump. for 6 of 11 pairs of stones that totally dissolved, the mean dissolution time with the system was 10 +/- 6 minutes compared with 112 +/- 81 minutes for the syringe pump. in the 5 of 11 stone pairs which dissolved incompletely, insoluble residue was completely eliminated by the system in 21 +/- 9 minutes but not by the syringe pump even at 360 minutes. when the system was used in gallstone patients, solvent recovery was 99% +/- 1%, and the concentration of a nonabsorbable marker did not change, confirming the lack of appreciable absorption of methyl tert-butyl ether. these studies suggest that the microprocessor-assisted solvent transfer system is a device capable of safe, complete, and fully automatic contact dissolution of cholesterol gallbladder stones using methyl tert-butyl ether or similar solvents.
p300 brain activity in seizure patients preceding temporal lobectomy. event-related potentials were recorded over occipital and parietal scalp from 20 patients suffering from intractable partial complex seizures prior to undergoing a temporal lobectomy. subjects were presented with language and nonlanguage visual stimuli using a divided-field, "odd-ball" paradigm. although behavioral performance (button-press accuracy, reaction time, and running counts) was comparable across all groups (although accuracy was worse for those in the left temporal group), patients showed tremendous variability in both the amplitude and latency of the p300 response. particularly notable was the observation that more slow wave activity was present among the patients than among the control subjects, and those scheduled for a left temporal resection evinced more amplitude reduction than those scheduled for a right temporal resection. in addition, a number of patients appeared not to show a p300 response at all. these results are discussed in the context of the utility of using noninvasive event-related potential measures to examine both memory impairment and the integrity of the neural structures that mediate memory functioning in certain patient populations.
extradural abscess following local anaesthetic and steroid injection for chronic low back pain. a case is described of extradural abscess following extradural injection of local anaesthetic and steroid for the management of chronic low back pain. the common signs and symptoms are reviewed, possible causes discussed and the association with diabetes stressed.
platelet-activating factor: evidence against a role in hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction. the mechanism of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (hpv) remains unknown. the platelet-activating factor (paf) antagonist web 2086 attenuated hpv in the isolated lung model of the rat. we evaluated the effect of web 2086 on hpv in an intact animal. pigs were anesthetized, mechanically ventilated, and had their hemodynamic variables monitored with a pulmonary artery catheter and arterial line. cardiac output was measured by thermodilution. initial studies determined that paf (0.03 to 1.0 micrograms) injected iv dose-dependently increased pulmonary vascular resistance (pvr) with a 262 +/- 58% increase in pvr 5 min after a dose of 1.0 microgram. web 2086 (25 mg/kg iv) completely blocked the increase in pvr caused by iv paf. additionally, indomethacin (2 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg.h iv) treatment of the animals attenuated the paf-induced increase in pvr. to evaluate the effect of web 2086 on hpv, animals were alternately ventilated with 21% oxygen and 10-min periods of 10% oxygen to induce hpv. after three initial control episodes of hypoxic ventilation, web 2086 (25 mg/kg) was injected iv and two more episodes of ventilation with 10% oxygen were given. during the three control hpv episodes the increases in pvr were 80 +/- 10%, 108 +/- 10%, and 107 +/- 22% (n = 5). after web 2086, the increase in pvr during two episodes of hypoxia were 96 +/- 28% and 99 +/- 19%, respectively, which was not significantly different from the control response to hypoxia. we conclude that iv paf dose dependently increases pvr in pigs, and can be blocked by web 2086, that its effect is partially mediated through cyclooxygenase products, and that paf does not appear to mediate hpv in this species.
intraperitoneal femoral venous catheter insertion with free blood return in presence of tense hemoperitoneum. the authors report a case of intraperitoneal insertion of a femoral venous catheter, with blood return, in a patient with hemoperitoneum. in such patients, skin puncture at or below the inguinal ligament is important. aspiration of unusually dark blood and medial catheter location should raise the possibility of intraperitoneal catheter placement.
pott's puffy tumor: a complication of frontal sinusitis. in children sinusitis is a frequent complication of upper respiratory infections but an infrequently considered diagnosis. although most sinus infections are resolved without complications, when complications do occur they can be serious or life threatening. the most common ones occur in the orbit, but cns extension is not infrequent. osteomyelitis and resulting subperiosteal abscess of the frontal bone--the so-called pott's puffy tumor--is a less common, and perhaps less frequently recognized, serious complication of frontal sinusitis. this paper describes two patients with subperiosteal abscess resulting from frontal sinusitis, one with cns and orbital extension. a brief literature review is presented, and presentation, diagnosis, and treatment are discussed.
occlusion of umbilical artery in acardiac, acephalic twin. in the acardiac, acephalic twin malformation the normal co-twin is put at risk because of the extra cardiac work-load. surgical procedures may be hazardous to the mother. we describe a novel approach--the insertion of a helical metal coil to induce thrombosis in the umbilical artery of the acardiac twin--which immediately interrupted flow. the co-twin was delivered at 39 weeks and his neonatal course has been normal.
familial autosomal recessive rigid spine syndrome with neurogenic facio-scapulo-peroneal muscle atrophy. two sisters and a first cousin presented with rigid spine and facio-scapulo-peroneal muscle atrophy. the patients belonged to a family with two first-cousin marriages. electromyography, muscle and nerve biopsy showed neurogenic muscle atrophy without peripheral nerve involvement. follow up did not show progression of the disease. this is the first observation of an association of neurogenic facio-scapulo-peroneal and rigid spine syndrome. the double first-cousin marriage suggests autosomal recessive inheritance.
in vitro evaluation of bleomycin-induced cell lethality from plastic and glass containers. to optimize cancer chemotherapy, a considerable amount of research has been expended to study pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic, biochemical, and pharmaceutic properties of antineoplastic agents. however, published data on the stability and compatibility of these agents in various administration fluids and containers are few in number. evidence of a significant decrease in stability as shown by high-performance liquid chromatography has been reported when bleomycin was infused in plastic containers for prolonged periods (over 24 hours) as compared with the same procedure with glass containers. because administration of bleomycin is usually given as a continuous infusion, we undertook this study to determine whether the drug loss of stability that occurs in plastic containers results in a therapeutic loss of efficacy (cytotoxicity). by using a tumor stem-cell assay we compared the quantitative effects of bleomycin in plastic and glass containers on cell lethality. the results from our assay showed no significant difference in cell lethality by bleomycin from its aqueous solution stored in glass and plastic containers over the time periods observed. if these results had been statistically significant, the tumor stem-cell assay may have been shown to be a more sensitive means of determining the clinical significance of these stability studies.
postoperative pancreatic abscess due to plesiomonas shigelloides. plesiomonas shigelloides is being recognized with increasing frequency as a human pathogen. the organism is ubiquitous in fresh and brackish water, and clinical illness has been associated with foreign travel and ingestion of inadequately cooked seafood. we describe a 64-year-old filipino woman who presented 2 weeks after elective cholecystectomy and pancreatic biopsy with left upper quadrant pain, abdominal distention, and fever. computerized tomography of the abdomen revealed an abscess in the tail of the pancreas with fluid accumulation in the lesser omental sac. percutaneous aspiration yielded purulent material, and p. shigelloides was recovered in pure culture. to our knowledge, this is the first reported case of pancreatic abscess due to p. shigelloides.
intracranial arachnoid cysts in children. a comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting. the best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy. recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent. the cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported. five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention. of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration, 10 (67%) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal (eight patients) or ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunting (one patient), or revision of a vp shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration (one patient). two other patients with existing vp shunts required no further procedures. thus, only three (20%) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years. the 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively; shunt revision has been necessary in six (30%) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence. cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision, but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable. in all locations, though, shunting was more successful than fenestration. it is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-vp shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations, including those in the middle cranial fossa.
giant eccrine acrospiroma. four cases of large eccrine acrospiroma (three benign, one malignant) are reported. the benign tumors involved the lower extremities of two women and one man (73 to 89 years of age). the duration of the lesions ranged from 10 to 20 years. the malignant tumor involved the left side of the chest of a 60-year-old man. its occurrence in a lesion that had been present for 40 years suggested malignant transformation of a pre-existing benign eccrine acrospiroma. each tumor showed little to no cellular atypia. mitotic rates (mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields) varied both between and within lesions. average mitotic rates did not differentiate the benign from the malignant tumors. the most important distinguishing features of large benign eccrine acrospiromas are the relative circumscription, the lack of cellular atypia, and the absence of stromal, perineurial, and angiolymphatic invasion.
cerebellar voice tremor: an acoustic analysis. patients with cerebellar disease may exhibit tremulous phonation as part of their dysarthria. the results of an acoustic analysis of cerebellar voice tremor in a patient with hereditary ataxia and presenting with a purely cerebellar syndrome are reported. analysis included computation of speech intensity contours, fundamental frequency contours, and spectral parameters from sustained productions of vowels and voiceless fricatives. fundamental frequency contours during sustained phonation of vowels showed rhythmic oscillations at a rate of about 3 hz. no concomitant periodicity could be detected for the parameters characterising voiceless fricative production. the results indicate an impairment of phonatory control in relation to the maintenance of a constant isometric activity of the internal laryngeal muscles. cerebellar voice tremor may therefore be classified as a form of postural tremor.
comparison of lymphatic and venous interpositional autografts in experimental microsurgery of the canine lymphatics. in mongrel dogs, 56 autologous lymphatic and vein grafts were interpositioned to bridge a defect in the femoral collecting lymphatics. in one group, 26 lymphatic autografts were interpositioned with good results. no obstruction was observed over 6 months. in another group, 20 venous autografts were interpositioned after irrigation with heparinized saline and another 10 autografts were interpositioned without irrigation. after 1 week, four irrigated grafts were partially occluded with a red thrombus; after 6 months, all grafts were totally occluded. in a third group, 15 lymphaticolymphatic anastomoses were enveloped by a silicone sheet to provoke prolonged devascularization. none of the vessels was patent. anastomotic patency was inspected in vivo postoperatively. the specimens were studied with light microscopy and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. prolonged devascularization damaged the endothelial cells. the results show that the lymphatic vessel autograft is the best choice for an interpositional autografting to bridge a defect in lymphatic vessels.
surgery for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. from july 1985 to july 1989, loma linda university medical center evaluated 46 thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (taaas). forty patients were taken to surgery--18 (45%) were operated on an emergency basis for reasons including rupture (12 patients, 30%), dissection (5 patients, 12.5%), and severe pain (1 patient). the overall mortality for all operated patients was five (12.5%-17% for emergency surgery versus 9% for elective surgery). nonfatal complications occurred in 40 per cent of patients (16). the overall incidence of paraplegia was 10 per cent (4/40), emergency patients 17 per cent (3/18) versus elective patients 4.5 per cent (1/22). careful preoperative evaluation, standardization of operative technique, and good postoperative management have improved the outlook for these patients who otherwise would progress to eventual rupture and death. because mortality and morbidity are substantially reduced in elective patients, we recommend that all patients with taaas be evaluated for surgery as soon as diagnosis is made.
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in nonulcer dyspepsia. importance of stratification according to age helicobacter pylori (formerly campylobacter pylori) is causally related to active antral gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal and gastric ulcers. however, the relationship of h pylori to nonulcer dyspepsia is less clear. we determined the presence of h pylori in unselected patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy, and we found a prevalence of 37% in 110 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia that was similar to previous data. patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who had h pylori were found to be significantly older than patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who did not have h pylori. in addition, when stratified according to age, we detected an increased prevalence of h pylori in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia with increasing age, similar to that reported for asymptomatic control populations. this finding casts doubt as to the causal role of h pylori for most patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and stresses the importance of considering epidemiologic factors, such as age, when evaluating the role of h pylori in specific disease states.
reduced frequency of hypertensive disorders in placenta previa the isthmic segment of the uterine artery's ascending branch has a freer course and wider diameter than distal parts of the vessel. therefore, we assumed that this arterial segment would provide better blood flow and prevent hypoxia of the trophoblast. as a result, placenta previa pregnancies would be complicated by hypertensive disorders less often than are pregnancies with normally implanted placentas. to test this hypothesis, 491 placenta previa pregnancies, among a population of 106,866 pregnant women, were compared with pregnancies with normally implanted placentas. clinically meaningful and statistically significant reductions in the rates and risks of hypertensive disorders were found in placenta previa pregnancies (p = .002, relative risk = 0.44, 95% confidence interval 0.25-0.78). the differences persisted when primiparous and multiparous women were examined separately and when preterm and term deliveries were separated. in a multivariate logistic regression analysis, patients with placenta previa had a third of the risk for hypertensive disorders compared with pregnant women with normally implanted placentas (relative risk = 0.36, 95% confidence interval 0.20-0.64), even after controlling for parity and preterm or term delivery. in the same model, primiparity and preterm delivery were each associated with a doubling of risk for hypertensive disorders, regardless of the placental implantation site. thus, regardless of parity and preterm or term delivery, placenta previa and hypertensive disorders are inversely related.
the long-distance effects of brain lesions: visualization of myelinated pathways in the human brain using polarizing and fluorescence microscopy. we describe several new possibilities for the study of degenerated myelinated tracts in the human central nervous system (cns). the methods are based on the visualization of myelin breakdown products that show birefringence in polarized light and, when stained with nile blue and benzpyrene-3,4, exhibit fluorescence. even after lengthy formalin fixation, the methods permit the localization of anterogradely degenerated tracts in a variety of fiber systems in the brains of patients who died between five and 20 months after the onset of neurological symptoms. particularly the polarizing technique, because of its simplicity, can be added to the usual neuropathological methods for demonstrating the long-distance effects of a brain lesion. as research tools, these methods would also aid in the study of the anatomical substrate of human neurological symptomatology.
effects of adenosine on human coronary arterial circulation adenosine is a potent vasodilator used extensively to study the coronary circulation of animals. its use in humans, however, has been hampered by lack of knowledge about its effects on the human coronary circulation and by concern about its safety. we investigated in humans the effects of adenosine, administered by intracoronary bolus (2-16 micrograms), intracoronary infusion (10-240 micrograms/min), or intravenous infusion (35-140 micrograms/kg/min) on coronary and systemic hemodynamics and the electrocardiogram. coronary blood flow velocity (cbfv) was measured with a 3f coronary doppler catheter. the maximal cbfv was determined with intracoronary papaverine (4.5 +/- 0.2.resting cbfv). in normal left coronary arteries (n = 20), 16-micrograms boluses of adenosine caused coronary hyperemia similar to that caused by papaverine (4.6 +/- 0.7.resting cbfv). in the right coronary artery (n = 5), 12-micrograms boluses caused maximal hyperemia (4.4 +/- 1.0.resting cbfv). intracoronary boluses caused a small, brief decrease in arterial pressure (similar to that caused by papaverine) and no changes in heart rate or in the electrocardiogram. the duration of hyperemia was much shorter after adenosine than after papaverine administration. intracoronary infusions of 80 micrograms/min or more into the left coronary artery (n = 6) also caused maximal hyperemia (4.4 +/- 0.1.resting cbfv), and doses up to 240 micrograms/min caused a minimal decrease in arterial pressure (-6 +/- 2 mm hg) and no significant change in heart rate or in electrocardiographic variables. intravenous infusions in normal patients (n = 25) at 140 micrograms/kg/min caused coronary vasodilation similar to that caused by papaverine in 84% of patients (4.4 +/- 0.9.resting cbfv). at submaximal infusion rates, however, cbfv often fluctuated widely. during the 140-micrograms/kg/min infusion, arterial pressure decreased 6 +/- 7 mm hg, and heart rate increased 24 +/- 14 beats/min. one patient developed 1 cycle of 2:1 atrioventricular block, but otherwise, the electrocardiogram did not change. in eight patients with microvascular vasodilator dysfunction (delta cbfv, less than 3.5 peak/resting velocity after a maximally vasodilating dose of intracoronary papaverine), the dose-response characteristics to intracoronary boluses and intravenous infusions of adenosine were similar to those found in normal patients.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
anterior segment ischemia: a complication of retinal detachment repair in a patient with sickle cell trait. anterior segment ischemia (asi) is a dreaded complication of retinal detachment surgery particularly in patients with predisposing factors such as sickle cell disease. we report a case of asi after scleral buckling in an otherwise healthy black patient with sickle cell trait. conditions of relative hypoxia intraoperatively from either anesthesia or surgical manipulation may precipitate vasoocclusive phenomena in these normally asymptomatic patients. since the incidence of sickle cell trait in the black population in the united states is 8.5%, we recommend these patients have a preoperative sickle test followed by hemoglobin electrophoresis with quantification if positive. the presence of sickle cell trait should alert the surgeon to the risk of asi, and factors predisposing to hypoxia should be minimized when possible.
bone metastases: pathophysiology and management policy. the pathophysiology and options for management of bone metastases as well as criteria for determining response to therapy are reviewed. bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer patients. in the majority of patients, the primary tumor is in the breast, prostate, or lungs. although almost all patients will die of their disease, a proportion of the patients will survive for several years. treatment is primarily palliative: the intention is to relieve pain, prevent fractures, maintain activity and mobility, and, if possible, to prolong survival. therapeutic options include local treatment with radiotherapy and/or surgery, and systemic treatment using chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, radioisotopes, agents such as diphosphonates, which inhibit resorption of bone, as well as analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs. the mechanisms by which pain is relieved by several of these therapies remain unclear but actions beyond a simple tumoricidal effect appear to be important. there have been few randomized trials comparing the therapeutic options, and the criteria for assessing response to therapy have, in general, been poorly defined. there is a need for rigorous clinical investigations that assess the efficacy of the various therapeutic possibilities by using well-defined and validated criteria of response.
increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations in hyperthyroid states. serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were determined in 21 untreated hyperthyroid patients (12 with graves' disease, and nine with toxic nodular adenoma) and in 20 healthy controls. all subjects had normal serum creatinine concentrations and urine analysis. both total and free thyroid hormones were significantly higher in the hyperthyroid groups than in controls. beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were significantly increased in both groups of hyperthyroid patients compared with controls. no difference was found in the thyroid hormone and beta 2-microglobulin concentrations between both sets of patients. the beta 2-microglobulin and thyroid hormone concentrations were not correlated. these data show that hyperthyroidism is another cause of increased beta 2-microglobulin production along with viral infections, immunologically mediated diseases, and malignant neoplasms. the increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentration in thyroid hyperfunction is probably related to metabolic rate, even if autoimmunity might contribute to its overproduction.
urinary excretion of tamm-horsfall protein in women with recurrent urinary tract infections. since ms-fimbriated bacteria adhere to tamm-horsfall protein, it has been suggested that tamm-horsfall protein may trap urinary pathogens and prevent them from colonizing the mucosal surfaces of the urinary tract. to test the hypothesis that low urinary tamm-horsfall protein excretion rates predispose to urinary tract infection we obtained serial urine samples from 17 women with and 18 without a history of recurrent urinary tract infection. none of the women had known structural abnormalities of the urinary tract. concentrations of tamm-horsfall protein in urine were measured with a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method. on the average, 3 urine samples per person collected within 3 to 6 months were analyzed. the mean tamm-horsfall protein excretion of women with recurrent urinary tract infection was 57.0 mg./l. and that of controls was 66.3 mg./l.; this difference was not statistically significant. the mean coefficient of variation was 44.2 and 62.1%, respectively. we conclude that urinary tamm-horsfall protein concentration is not significantly decreased in women with recurrent urinary tract infection compared with controls, and that excretion varies widely in repeat samples obtained from the same individual.
pharmacological characterization of ly233053: a structurally novel tetrazole-substituted competitive n-methyl-d-aspartic acid antagonist with a short duration of action. this study reports the activity of a structurally novel excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, ly233053 [cis-(+-)-4-[(2h-tetrazol-5-yl)methyl]piperidine-2-carboxylic acid], the first tetrazole-containing competitive n-methyl-d-aspartic acid (nmda) antagonist. ly233053 potently inhibited nmda receptor binding to rat brain membranes as shown by the in vitro displacement of [3h] cgs19755 (ic50 = 107 +/- 7 nm). no appreciable affinity in [3h]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (ampa) or [3h]kainate binding assays was observed (ic50 values greater than 10,000 nm). in vitro nmda receptor antagonist activity was further demonstrated by selective inhibition of nmda-induced depolarization in cortical wedges (ic50 = 4.2 +/- 0.4 microm vs. 40 microm nmda). ly233053 was effective after in vivo systemic administration in a number of animal models. in neonatal rats, ly233053 selectively blocked nmda-induced convulsions (ed50 = 14.5 mg/kg i.p.) with a relatively short duration of action (2-4 hr). in pigeons, ly233053 potently antagonized (ed50 = 1.3 mg/kg i.m.) the behavioral suppressant effects of 10 mg/kg of nmda. however, a dose of 160 mg/kg, i.m., was required to produce phencyclidine-like catalepsy in pigeons. in mice, ly233053 protected against maximal electroshock-induced seizures at lower doses (ed50 = 19.9 mg/kg i.p.) than those that impaired horizontal screen performance (ed50 = 40.9 mg/kg i.p.). cholinergic and gabaergic neuronal degenerations after striatal infusion of nmda were prevented by single or multiple i.p. doses of ly233053. in summary, the antagonist activity of ly233053 after systemic administration demonstrates potential therapeutic value in conditions of neuronal cell loss due to nmda receptor excitotoxicity. the relatively short duration of action of ly233053 may make this compound particularly advantageous as a neuroprotective agent in the treatment of acute conditions such as cerebral ischemia.
prognostic value of thallium-201 perfusion defects in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. to assess the prognostic significance of thallium-201 perfusion defects in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (idc), 43 patients underwent thallium scintigraphy in addition to clinical, echocardiographic, angiographic and hemodynamic evaluation. eleven patients had no significant thallium perfusion abnormality, 19 had multiple small defects and 13 had a large defect. during 3.2 +/- 2.2 years, 14 patients had disease-related mortality. the patients who died had a higher incidence of ventricular tachycardia (71 vs 31%; p less than 0.02), increased cardiothoracic ratio (60 +/- 6 vs 54 +/- 6; p = 0.005), decreased fractional shortening (11 +/- 6 vs 15 +/- 5; p less than 0.05), increased pulmonary wedge pressure (15 +/- 7 vs 10 +/- 6 mm hg; p = 0.05), increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (21 +/- 8 vs 14 +/- 6 mm hg; p = 0.02) and abnormal thallium perfusion defects (13 of 14 vs 16 of 26; p less than 0.05) compared with survivors. age, gender, left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic dimensions, cardiac index and ejection fraction were not statistically different in the survivors versus the patients who died. kaplan-meier survival estimates at 1, 3 and 5 years were 100% in patients without significant perfusion abnormality; 89, 77 and 64%, respectively, in patients with multiple small defects; and 84, 76 and 30%, respectively, in patients with a large defect (p less than 0.025 by log rank test).
pancreas transplantation. a new program. sixteen pancreatico-duodenal transplants were performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetics, aged 25-46, during a 20-month period beginning may 1, 1988. fourteen patients received a combined cadaveric pancreas/renal transplant with bladder drainage. one patient received a second pancreas transplant 24 hours after the first pancreas graft failed due to portal vein thrombosis. one patient received a pancreas graft 3 years after kidney transplantation. complications included five cases of hematuria, two bladder leaks, two wound infections, one cytomegalovirus pneumonia, three cases of graft pancreatitis, one pseudocyst, one urine reflux pancreatitis requiring conversion to pancreatico-enterostomy, and two late deaths. average time to discharge was 17 days following transplant, with 2.9 re-hospitalizations per patient and an average of 38 in-hospital days during the first 6-12 months. seventeen rejection episodes occurred in 12 patients, diagnosed by declining urine amylase and ph and/or finding of rejection on kidney biopsy. patient and kidney graft survival is 87 per cent. pancreas graft survival is 81 per cent (1-20 months follow-up). all patients are insulin-independent and normoglycemic. mean glycosylated hemoglobin concentration is 4.0 +/- 0.9 post-transplant vs. 7.5 +/- 0.6 pretransplant. mean serum creatinine is 1.4 +/- 0.7 mg/dl. a new program of pancreas transplantation can be successful in carefully selected diabetic patients, with special attention to avoidance of preservation injury to the pancreas during multiorgan donor procurement. combined pancreatic/renal transplantation is believed to be the therapeutic treatment of choice in type i diabetic patients who have impaired renal function and have no significant cardiovascular disease.
reversible myeloneuropathy of nitrous oxide abuse: serial electrophysiological studies. detailed electrophysiological studies were performed in 4 patients with myeloneuropathy induced by abuse of nitrous oxide for 1 to 4 years. all presented with paresthesias, weakness, and lhermitte's phenomena, and exhibited signs of sensorimotor polyneuropathy, ataxia, and arreflexia. two had subnormal serum vitamin b12 levels. baseline electrophysiologic testing revealed reduced motor unit potentials, prolonged f wave latencies, absent h reflexes, denervation potentials, and delays in motor and sensory conduction. three had peripheral and nuchal delay after median nerve stimulation. all were reevaluated after 3 to 12 months' abstinence and treatment with vitamin b12, and all showed substantial clinical improvement. parallel improvement in electrophysiologic findings occurred, but residual minor conduction delays, loss of h reflexes, electromyographic evidence of denervation, or abnormalities of posterior tibial sep were noted. these findings confirm the reversibility of myeloneuropathy of nitrous oxide abuse and describe the profile of electrophysiologic recovery in subjects who abstain from further neurotoxic exposure.
hemodynamic effects of partial correction of chronic anemia by recombinant human erythropoietin in patients on dialysis. eighteen patients on chronic hemodialysis with renal anemia were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin (r-huepo). hemodynamic parameters in the resting state were determined before and after successful treatment. posttreatment cardiac index was decreased (3.3 v 2.8 l/min/m2), whereas diastolic blood pressure (72 v 79 mm hg) and calculated peripheral resistance (2,230 v 2,860 dyne.cm.s-5) were increased significantly when compared with the pretreatment period. we conclude from our study that the increase of blood pressure as seen in patients on dialysis, who are effectively treated with r-huepo, is due to an increase in peripheral resistance. this increase overrules the decrease of cardiac index and might well be a result of peripheral vasoconstriction due to improved oxygen availability.
association between extent of colonic mucosal sialomucin change and subsequent local recurrence after curative excision of primary colorectal cancer. two interrelated studies were carried out to determine whether extent of sialomucin change adjacent to a primary colorectal carcinoma predicted local tumour invasiveness and risk of local recurrence. in the first, depth of tumour penetration was correlated with the length of the sialomucin band adjacent to 72 primary colorectal cancers. there was a significant (p less than 0.05) increase in sialomucin band length adjacent to tumours invading adjacent structures compared with those which had not (mann-whitney u test), although there was no overall correlation between depth of penetration, duke's classification or degree of differentiation (kruskal-wallis test). a sialomucin band of greater than 3 cm was associated with a 70 per cent probability of adjacent structure (t4) invasion. these observations were then tested prospectively in a second study involving 256 patients to determine whether the presence of a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band could predict local recurrence. presence of a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band was a significant (x2 = 7.12, d.f. = 1, p less than 0.001) and independent predictor of local but not distant recurrence. in addition both the interval to local recurrence and survival were significantly shorter if a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band was present. however the accuracy of greater than 3 cm sialomucin band as a predictive test for local recurrence was only 70 per cent. the extent of sialomucin adjacent to a primary colorectal cancer does provide a crude assessment of tumour invasiveness and risk of local recurrence.
reperfusion and readmission of oxygen. pathophysiological relevance of oxygen-derived free radicals to arrhythmogenesis. we have examined the pathophysiological role of readmission of oxygen (and hence production of oxygen-derived free radicals) in the initiation of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias by separating, on a temporal basis, readmission flow from readmission of oxygen. isolated rat hearts (n = 12/group) were subjected to 10 minutes of regional ischemia and 10 minutes of reperfusion. in controls reperfused with oxygenated solution (po2 greater than 600 mm hg), 92% of hearts developed ventricular fibrillation (vf) during the first 20 seconds of reperfusion, whereas in hearts reperfused with hypoxic solution (po2 9.3-12.2 mm hg), the incidence of vf was only 17% (p less than 0.05). subsequent readmission of control solution (po2 greater than 600 mm hg) to the latter group led, within 20 seconds, to the appearance of vf in seven of the 10 hearts (70%) that had not previously fibrillated. to examine whether hypoxic reperfusion had prevented vf or merely delayed its onset, the studies were repeated in separate groups of hearts with the duration of hypoxic reperfusion extended to 5 minutes. in addition, to examine the partial pressure dependence of the relation, the po2 in the reperfusion solution was set at one of five different levels: greater than 600, 150-192.7, 69-85.6, 9.2-14.8, or 0.0 mm hg. it was found that hypoxia merely delayed vf onset by 20-40 seconds and did not significantly reduce the incidence of vf, which was 83%, 92%, 67%, 58%, and 58%, respectively. this indicated that readmission of oxygen is unnecessary for the initiation of vf during reperfusion. the hearts that reverted to sinus rhythm during the ensuing 5 minutes (n = 8, 4, 5, 9, and 8, respectively) were used to assess the arrhythmogenic consequences of readmission of oxygen. when control solution (po2 greater than 600 mm hg) was readmitted, new episodes of vf were elicited within 20 seconds in a manner that was inversely proportional to the preceding po2 (p less than 0.05), the incidence of new episodes of vf being 0%, 0%, 40%, 67%, and 86%, respectively. the arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was not the result of a sudden increase in heart rate, because a similar arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was seen in separate groups of hearts that were paced (350 beats/min) throughout hypoxia and readmission of oxygen. in conclusion, readmission of flow and readmission of oxygen are independent determinants of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
efficacy of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. analysis of 149 consecutive studies. to evaluate the usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery, 149 consecutive patients were studied since 1985. left ventricular function was assessed by measurement of left ventricular dimension and ejection fraction in patients with valvular disease. this monitoring was useful in detecting the changes in left ventricular performance in patients with volume overload and in managing patients in the early postoperative period. cardiac tamponade was clearly demonstrated before changes in electrocardiogram and hemodynamic data. in 27 patients, transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was used to confirm that there was no residual regurgitation immediately after valvular reconstructive surgery. transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was also useful in detecting the entry of false lumen before surgery in 7 patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm. there were no unsuccessful introductions, no traumatic or thermal injuries, 18 patients (12.1%) with hoarseness and 5 patients (3.4%) with transient arrhythmia. in conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography provides a good imaging window to the heart and great vessels perioperatively. this expedient, safe informative imaging method can be used more routinely in patients during surgery.
hiv infection: clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with kaposi's sarcoma. the clinical findings of patients with oral kaposi's sarcoma are reviewed. these oral findings commonly included candidiasis, hairy leukoplakia, gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), periodontitis, and other symptoms, including xerostomia. the other common symptoms of hiv disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group. treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral kaposi's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation, with more than 50% regression of the lesions in 80% of the patients treated.
flow redistribution during progressive hemorrhage is a determinant of critical o2 delivery. o2 consumption (vo2) of anesthetized whole mammals is independent of o2 delivery (do2) until do2 declines to a critical value (do2c). below this value, vo2 becomes o2 supply dependent. we assessed the influence of whole body do2 redistribution among organs with respect to the commencement of o2 supply dependency. we measured do2, vo2, and do2c of whole body, liver, intestine, kidney, and remaining carcass in eight mongrel dogs during graded progressive hemorrhage. whole body do2 was redistributed such that the organ-to-whole body do2 ratio declined for liver and kidney and increased for carcass. we then created a mathematical model wherein each organ-to-whole body do2 ratio remained approximately constant at all values of whole body do2 and assigned organ vo2 to predicted organ do2 by interpolation and extrapolation of observed vo2-do2 plots. the model predicted that o2 supply dependency without redistribution would have commenced at a higher value of whole body do2 for whole body (8.11 +/- 0.89 vs. 6.98 +/- 1.16 ml.kg-1.min-1, p less than 0.05) and carcass (6.83 +/- 1.16 vs. 5.06 +/- 1.15 ml.kg-1.min-1, p less than 0.01) and at a lower value of whole body do2 for liver (6.33 +/- 1.86 vs. 7.59 +/- 1.95, ml.kg-1.min-1, p less than 0.02) and kidney (1.25 +/- 0.64 vs. 4.54 +/- 1.29 ml.kg-1.min-1, p less than 0.01). we conclude that redistribution of whole body do2 among organs facilitates whole body o2 regulation.
shortcut method to calculate the sample size in trials of screening for chronic disease. one of the first questions arising in the planning of a randomized trial to evaluate mortality reduction by screening concerns the sample size of the trial required to detect an expected mortality reduction in the study group for given significance level alpha, and power 1 - beta. if estimates exist of the underlying average annual incidence rate of the disease ra and the annual mortality rate delta a or survival data for patients in the population under consideration before screening started, then a simple formula for the probability of dying from the disease within t years after entry into the trial can be given for the control group. standard formulas may then be used for sample size calculations in randomized trials, which compare the risk of death from the disease in the control and the study group accrued at t years after entry. a simple correction for loss of follow-up, due to mortality from other causes or, for instance, migration is possible.
bilateral norrie's disease in identical twins. a case of norrie's disease in an identical twins is reported. no positive family history was obtained. the couple had no other children. the older of the twins died at the age of 9 months of uncertain cause. to the best of my knowledge this is the first case of norrie's disease reported in malaysia. and its occurrence in an identical twins is very rare.
clinical characteristics of migraine and episodic tension-type headache in relation to old and new diagnostic criteria. eighty-one patients were diagnosed as having migraine, tension headache or both according to previously used criteria. then we performed a standardized interview to determine the frequency and severity of headache characteristics used in the new operational diagnostic criteria of the international headache society (ihs). in every patient the original diagnosis fulfilled also the ihs criteria, but in 9 patients the criteria were only fulfilled in half or less of the attacks, and applying the ihs criteria they also achieved an additional diagnosis. in one patient these attacks did not fulfill the pain criteria and in 8 (4 migraine, 4 tension headache) they did not fulfill the criteria for accompanying symptoms. overall the ihs criteria are sensitive and specific, but they may possibly be improved with regard to accompanying symptoms. the present study suggests that recording of frequency and graded severity of characteristics using a headache diary may further improve the distinction between the different types of headache.
selective intestinal decontamination increases serum and ascitic fluid c3 levels in cirrhosis. selective intestinal decontamination for 7 days with norfloxacin was performed in 14 cirrhotic patients with ascites and low ascitic fluid total protein. variations in serum and ascitic fluid of c3 and c4 and ascitic fluid total protein after therapy were compared with those of a control group of 14 untreated patients with similar characteristics. after oral norfloxacin administration, we saw a significant increase of c3 in serum (p less than 0.05) and ascitic fluid (p = 0.01). a significant increase was also observed in ascitic fluid total protein (p less than 0.05) but not in serum and ascitic fluid c4. there were no changes in serum c3, ascitic fluid c3, ascitic fluid c4 or in ascitic fluid total protein in group 2. these data demonstrate that selective intestinal decontamination increases serum and ascitic fluid c3 levels and, therefore, might be useful in preventing spontaneous infections in cirrhotic patients at high risk of infection.
combined anterior and posterior fusion for spinal deformity in myelomeningocele. since 1973, 50 of 54 children have been treated by the author with a combined anterior and posterior fusion. twenty males and 34 females, ranging in age from 1 to 16 years, have been followed for a mean period of 5.5 years. sixteen patients with a kyphosis averaging 113 degrees (range, 77 to 170 degrees) had correction of deformity to a mean of 35 degrees. thirty-seven patients with a scoliosis averaging 73 degrees (range, 20 to 135 degrees) had correction to an average of 34 degrees (range, 0 to 75 degrees). there were 4 cases of deep wound infection successfully treated with drainage and antibiotics and only one case required implant removal after fusion/maturation. a pseudarthrosis was noted by radiograph in 6 patients, 3 of whom had isolated asymptomatic lumbosacral pseudarthroses. three patients had pseudarthrosis at the thoracolumbar junction. these required repair and were successfully treated by supplemental posterior fusion resulting in an overall pseudarthrosis rate of 5.7%. anterior fusion of the dysraphic spine allows greater correction of both spinal deformity and pelvic obliquity in addition to contributing significant strength to the fusion mass. segmental spinal instrumentation with sublaminar and pedicular wiring to custom-contoured luque rods provides excellent correction and immediate postoperative stability.
central nervous system involvement in von hippel-lindau disease. fifty individuals with von hippel-lindau disease (vhl) were studied with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (mri) to determine the frequency and distribution of cns lesions. the associated clinical features were also reviewed. thirty-six (72%) of the 50 had 1 or more cns tumors. the most frequently affected sites in the cns excluding the retina were the cerebellum (52%), spinal cord (44%), and brainstem (18%). new regional predilections for the craniocervical junction and conus medullaris were demonstrated by this study. forty-one percent of all vhl patients with cns tumors were neurologically asymptomatic: cerebellar tumors (50%), spinal cord tumors (50%), and brainstem tumors (44%) were often without clinical signs or symptoms. multiple lesions were common. the mean age of all vhl patients (34.5 years) was similar to the mean age of all cns vhl patients (34.4 years), suggesting a lack of age association. cns lesions commonly occurred in the 2nd decade of life. all patients at risk for vhl should be evaluated using gadolinium-enhanced mri after 10 years of age, although ophthalmic examination should be initiated within the 1st 2 years of life. enhanced mri is particularly useful in the detection of cns tumors in patients with the vhl gene.
vagal schwannoma. a patient with a benign encapsulated intrathoracic vagal schwannoma is presented and the literature is reviewed. the right paratracheal tumor was identified incidentally on a chest film and excised using a right thoracotomy. although rare, vagal schwannomas should be considered for any mediastinal mass along the vagus nerves especially when the paratracheal tumor produces minimal or no respiratory symptoms suggesting a slow-growing, encapsulated process.
limb-salvage surgery in the treatment of osteosarcoma in skeletally immature individuals. sacrifice of major growth plates during resection and fixed-length reconstruction of a limb in a skeletally immature child with osteosarcoma may result in a significant limb-length inequality as growth progresses. a limb-length discrepancy in the humerus may cause minor cosmetic problems but does not generally result in a significant functional deficit. in the lower extremity, tumors about the knee, including the distal femur and proximal tibia, usually present the dilemma of whether limb salvage by arthrodesis, osteoarticular allograft, or endoprosthetic replacement would result in a significant limb-length inequality and whether amputation of the extremity is a preferable procedure. the techniques of rotationplasty and an expandable endoprosthesis have been successfully used for treating skeletally immature patients with osteosarcoma of the distal femur. with regard to survival and function, the results obtained with these innovative methods are favorable compared with those of a high above-knee amputation.
dilated renal collecting systems: differentiating obstructive from nonobstructive dilation using duplex doppler ultrasound. two patients with ileal loop urinary diversions, studied with real-time and doppler sonography ("duplex sonography") of the kidneys, were shown to have dilated intrarenal collecting systems. resistive index measurements calculated from the doppler signal correctly identified obstructive dilatation in 1 case and nonobstructive dilatation in the other.
intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction. case report. a case of an intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction is reported in a 37-year-old man. the classification of these rare lesions is discussed.
ischemic heart disease and platelet aggregation. the caerphilly collaborative heart disease study. the caerphilly collaborative heart disease study is based on a large cohort of men (2,398) aged 49-66 years at the time of study. platelet aggregation induced by collagen, thrombin, and adp was measured in fasting blood samples and was related to prevalent angina, past myocardial infarction, and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemic heart disease. a number of subjects had taken aspirin, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or other drugs affecting platelet aggregation 7 days before blood sample collection; after the exclusion of these subjects, data were available for 1,811 men. no relations were demonstrated with angina, but significant relations were shown between past myocardial infarctions and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia and adp-induced aggregation (both primary and secondary) and between electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia and thrombin-induced aggregation. the strongest relation indicated more than a twofold increase in the odds of a past myocardial infarction in subjects of the highest fifth of adp-induced primary platelet aggregation compared with the lowest fifth. no significant relations were detected with collagen-induced aggregation. accounting for a number of possible confounding factors had a relatively small impact on the relations between platelet aggregation and ischemic heart disease. other evidence, including the well-established effect of aspirin on reducing the incidence of ischemic heart disease, indicates that the relations we describe are unlikely to be simply an effect of ihd on platelets.
hypocalciuria of preeclampsia is independent of parathyroid hormone level. hypocalciuria is a feature of preeclampsia. the roles of parathyroid hormone (pth) and vitamin d 1,25(oh)2d3 (calcitriol) in its pathogenesis have not yet been determined. fourteen preeclamptic women were compared with 12 women with chronic hypertension and 11 normotensives, all in the third trimester. preeclamptics had the lowest urinary calcium excretion rate (62.1 +/- 32.8 mg/24 hours) compared with chronic hypertensive women (162.6 +/- 97.8 mg/24 hours) and normotensive controls (225.6 = 146.9 mg/24 hours) (p less than .05). serum pth was lowest in preeclamptics (9.8 +/- 5.5 pg/ml), in contrast to the chronic hypertensives (18.5 +/- 2.7 pg/ml) and normotensives (16.4 +/- 3.2 pg/ml) (p less than .005). similarly, urinary cyclic adenosine monophosphate (camp) excretion was 2.9 +/- 1.4 mumol/24 hours in the preeclamptics, 5.1 +/- 1.7 mumol/24 hours in the chronic hypertensives, and 4.6 +/- 1.3 mumol/24 hours in the normotensive group (p less than .05). these data suggest that the mechanism of hypocalciuria in preeclampsia is independent of the pth-calcitriol axis. therefore, it is suggested that the hypocalciuria of preeclampsia is due to intrinsic renal tubular dysfunction.
bleeding from duodenal lymphangiectasia. an 8 year old girl with recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding was found to have localised duodenal lymphangiectasia by fibreoptic endoscopy. she did not show physical signs or laboratory evidence of significant enteric protein loss. a low fat diet seemed to prevent further bleeding. duodenal lymphangiectasia may be associated with gastrointestinal bleeding in children.
unusual blink reflex with four components in a patient with periodic ataxia. characteristic findings in blink reflex are reported in a 55-year-old female with periodic ataxia. the blink reflexes on the side ipsilateral to the stimulation consisted of four components with latencies of 11, 21, 35 and 47 ms, instead of the usual two components seen in normal subjects. on the contralateral side, the last three components were also present. the second component was different from the normal r2 response in that its latency was shorter than normal and it did not habituate by stimulation at a rate of 10 hz. in addition, it was more affected by diazepam than the third or fourth components. it is considered that r2 may have consisted of three components and that a shorter latency of the second component could be explained by facilitation.
feasibility of digital teleradiology for imaging evaluation of patients with acute right upper quadrant abdominal pain. to assess the utility of a commercially available digital teleradiology system in evaluating patients with acute pain in the right upper quadrant, hard-copy images from 100 examinations (50 hepatobiliary scintigrams and 50 sonograms of the right upper quadrant) were digitized, transmitted via standard telephone lines, and viewed remotely on a video monitor. video and hard-copy interpretations were then compared for degree of concordance. for the scintigraphic studies, hard-copy and video images were equal in demonstrating gallbladder and bile duct activity. video images failed to depict the presence of bowel activity in one case. gallstones were depicted equally well on hard-copy and video sonographic images. the video interpreters overestimated the presence of abnormal hepatic parenchyma and overlooked one case of right hydronephrosis. the video interpretations of the scintigrams and sonograms showed an overall error rate of 4%, comparable to the rate obtained when radiographs are interpreted remotely with digital teleradiology systems.
clinical use of the berlin biventricular assist device as a bridge to transplantation. the berlin artificial heart system/biventricular assist device (bvad) was used in 38 patients. 1) twenty-eight patients were awaiting cardiac transplantation (tx) (age 23-56 yrs). all patients had contraindications not allowing immediate tx. 2) five patients were emergency cases not on our tx list (postcardiotomy cardiac failure, acute myocarditis) (age 28-59). 3) five patients were post tx patients with graft failure (age 22-52). extracorporal circulation was used for implantation of the bvad. in group 1, 21 of 28 patients (pts) recovered, and all were subsequently transplanted after 6 hours to 39 days, when all organ function was restored. in 7 pts, mechanical circulation was terminated after 1-40 days because of further deterioration. five of the transplanted pts died, 14 pts survived (greater than 30 days), and 2 pts were just transplanted with satisfactory postoperative courses. of group 2 and 3 pts, two were successfully weaned. in one patient the allograft recovered after 11 days of support.
the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome. the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome is an entity that presents a diagnostic challenge to the clinician. although many infectious and noninfectious etiologies exist for this syndrome, viruses, especially nonpolio enteroviruses, are the classic and most important agents encountered. the incidence of polio and mumps meningitis has declined dramatically in the vaccine era, but recently described pathogens, such as human immunodeficiency virus and borrelia burgdorferi (lyme disease agent) are now important considerations in the differential diagnosis. specifically treatable entities (eg, mycobacterial or fungal meningitis, herpes simplex encephalitis, parameningeal infection) that may mimic aseptic meningitis in their initial presentations must not be overlooked. a careful approach to the patient and a rational use of laboratory studies are the basis for establishing a specific diagnosis and assuring a favorable outcome.
familial autosomal recessive rigid spine syndrome with neurogenic facio-scapulo-peroneal muscle atrophy. two sisters and a first cousin presented with rigid spine and facio-scapulo-peroneal muscle atrophy. the patients belonged to a family with two first-cousin marriages. electromyography, muscle and nerve biopsy showed neurogenic muscle atrophy without peripheral nerve involvement. follow up did not show progression of the disease. this is the first observation of an association of neurogenic facio-scapulo-peroneal and rigid spine syndrome. the double first-cousin marriage suggests autosomal recessive inheritance.
end-stage renal disease--is infrainguinal limb revascularization justified? reports of reconstructive surgery for peripheral vascular disease have been relatively uncommon in patients with end-stage renal disease. between 1980 and 1989, 39 patients with end-stage renal disease underwent revascularization of 56 limbs. fifty-two primary infrainguinal and four secondary infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed. in addition, nine thrombectomies were performed. at the time of surgery 37 patients were on dialysis; three had functioning kidney transplants. the indications for revascularization were gangrene, rest pain, or ulceration in all except three limbs with disabling claudication. reversed, nonreversed, or in situ vein was used in 25 of the 52 primary infrainguinal revascularizations performed. polytetrafluoroethylene was used in 25. two procedures used a combination of polytetrafluoroethylene and vein. the primary patencies for all infrainguinal procedures at 1 and 2 years were 77% and 68%, respectively. four perioperative deaths occurred in the infrainguinal group (7.7%). an additional death occurred after thrombectomy for late graft closure. three deaths were a result of myocardial infarction. one patient on peritoneal dialysis developed uncontrolled sepsis. at 3 years 39% of patients were alive, and 84% of the limbs were salvaged. among the cases studied no group was identified that represented unacceptable operative risk. results compared well with reported patencies for patients subjected to infrainguinal revascularization procedures. limb revascularization in patients with end-stage renal disease may be performed by use of similar criteria to those used for other patients with peripheral vascular disease.
comparison of silent and symptomatic ischemia during exercise testing in men objective: to compare angina and st-segment depression during exercise testing, as markers for coronary artery disease. design: retrospective analysis of exercise test responses and cardiac catheterization results. setting: a u.s. veterans affairs medical center. patients: four hundred and sixteen men who were referred for the evaluation of symptoms, postmyocardial infarction testing, or both. two hundred patients had no clinical or electrocardiographic evidence of previous myocardial infarction, whereas 216 were survivors of a previous myocardial infarction. interventions: all patients did a standard exercise test and had diagnostic coronary angiography with ventriculography within an average of 32 days (range, 0 to 90 days) of their exercise test. results: two hundred patients without a previous myocardial infarction were divided into four groups: the no ischemia group had 80 patients; the angina pectoris only group had 23 patients; the silent ischemia group had 40 patients; and the st-segment depression and angina pectoris group had 57 patients. in patients without a previous myocardial infarction, exercise-induced st-segment depression was a better marker than exercise-induced angina for the presence of any coronary artery disease (p less than 0.005). patients with symptomatic exercise-induced ischemia had a higher prevalence of severe coronary artery disease than did those with only silent ischemia (30% compared with 20%; 95% ci, - 7.3% to 27.0%; p = 0.005). for the 216 survivors of a myocardial infarction, divided into the same four groups, st-segment depression again was a better marker for the presence of severe coronary artery disease compared with angina alone (p = 0.08). the prevalence rates of severe coronary artery disease in the no ischemia plus myocardial infarction group, the angina pectoris only plus myocardial infarction group, the silent ischemia plus myocardial infarction group, and the st-segment depression and angina pectoris plus myocardial infarction group were 10%, 9%, 23%, and 32%, respectively (p less than 0.01). conclusions: exercise-induced st-segment depression is a better marker for coronary artery disease than is exercise-induced angina. symptomatic ischemia during the exercise test is a better marker for severe coronary artery disease than is silent ischemia.
congenital myasthenia associated with facial malformations in iraqi and iranian jews. a new genetic syndrome. fourteen jewish patients from 10 families of either iraqi or iranian origin with congenital myasthenia had associated facial malformations which included an elongated face, mandibular prognathism with class iii malocclusion and a high-arched palate. other common features were muscle weakness restricted predominantly to ptosis, weakness of facial and masticatory muscles, and fatigable speech; mild and nonprogressive course; response to cholinesterase inhibitors; absence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor; decremental response on repetitive stimulation at 3 hz but no repetitive compound muscle action potential in response to a single nerve stimulus. this newly recognized form of congenital myasthenia with distinctive ethnic clustering and associated facial malformations is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder. the facial abnormalities may be secondary to the neuromuscular defect or may be primary and unrelated. further studies are needed to elucidate the defect in neuromuscular transmission responsible for the pathogenesis of this syndrome.
phase i trial of piritrexim capsules using prolonged, low-dose oral administration for the treatment of advanced malignancies. a phase i trial of piritrexim was conducted by use of a prolonged, low-dose oral schedule. a number of different regimens were tested, including daily dosing for 21 days followed by 7 days of no drug therapy; continuous dosing; and daily dosing for 5 of 7 days for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a week of rest. dose escalation was accomplished by increasing the dosing frequency from once a day to twice a day and then to three times a day and by increasing the number of days of administration. fifty-one patients with advanced cancer were entered in the study. one hundred twenty-four (96%) of 129 courses were considered assessable. myelosuppression proved to be the dose-limiting toxic effect. other toxic effects included stomatitis, nausea and vomiting, anorexia, diarrhea, skin rash, fatigue, and elevation of liver transaminase levels. antitumor activity was observed in patients with melanoma and bladder cancer, and disease stabilization occurred in those with sarcoma and pheochromocytoma. the recommended dosing schedule for phase ii clinical trials is 25 mg three times a day for 5 days for 3 consecutive weeks followed by 1 week of no drug therapy.
central adenosinergic system involvement in ethanol-induced motor incoordination in mice. to clarify if the behavioral interaction between ethanol and adenosine reported previously occur centrally or due to a peripheral hemodynamic change, the effect of i.c.v. adenosine agonists, n6-(r-phenylisopropyl)adenosine (r-pia), n6-(s-phenylisopropyl)adenosine, 5'-(n-cyclopropyl)-carboxamidoadenosine, antagonists, theophylline and 8-p-(sulfophenyl)theophylline as well as enprofylline on ethanol-(i.p.)-induced motor incoordination was evaluated by rotorod. adenosine agonists and antagonists dose dependently accentuated and attenuated, respectively, ethanol-induced motor incoordination, thereby suggesting a central mechanism of adenosine modulation of this effect of ethanol and confirmed our previous reports in which adenosine agonists and antagonists were given i.p. enprofylline, a weak adenosine antagonist but potent inhibitor of cyclic amp phosphodiesterase, did not alter ethanol's motor incoordination, further supporting involvement of brain adenosine receptor mechanism(s) in ethanol-adenosine interactions. results from r-pia and n6-(s-phenylisopropyl)adenosine experiments showed nearly a 40-fold greater potency of r-vs. s-diastereoisomer, suggesting predominance of adenosine a1 subtype. however, 5'-(n-cyclopropyl)-carboxamidoadenosine data indicate complexity of the mechanism(s) and point toward an additional involvement of a yet unknown subtype of adenosine a2. no effect of ethanol on blood or brain levels of [3h]r-pia was noted and sufficient amount of the latter entered the brain to suggest adenosine receptor activation adequate to produce behavioral interaction with ethanol. there was no escape of i.c.v.-administered [3h]r-pia from brain to the peripheral circulation ruling out a peripheral and supporting a central mechanism of ethanol-adenosine interaction.
regional myocardial metabolism of high-energy phosphates during isometric exercise in patients with coronary artery disease background. the maintenance of cellular levels of high-energy phosphates is required for myocardial function and preservation. in animals, severe myocardial ischemia is characterized by the rapid loss of phosphocreatine and a decrease in the ratio of phosphocreatine to atp. methods. to determine whether ischemic metabolic changes are detectable in humans, we recorded spatially localized phosphorus-31 nuclear-magnetic-resonance (31p nmr) spectra from the anterior myocardium before, during, and after isometric hand-grip exercise. results. the mean (+/- sd) ratio of phosphocreatine to atp in the left ventricular wall when subjects were at rest was 1.72 +/- 0.15 in normal subjects (n = 11) and 1.59 +/- 0.31 in patients with nonischemic heart disease (n = 9), and the ratio did not change during hand-grip exercise in either group. however, in patients with coronary heart disease and ischemia due to severe stenosis (greater than or equal to 70 percent) of the left anterior descending or left main coronary arteries (n = 16), the ratio decreased from 1.45 +/- 0.31 at rest to 0.91 +/- 0.24 during exercise (p less than 0.001) and recovered to 1.27 +/- 0.38 two minutes after exercise. only three patients with coronary heart disease had clinical symptoms of ischemia during exercise. repeat exercise testing in five patients after revascularization yielded values of 1.60 +/- 0.20 at rest and 1.62 +/- 0.18 during exercise (p not significant), as compared with 1.51 +/- 0.19 at rest and 1.02 +/- 0.26 during exercise before revascularization (p less than 0.02). conclusions. the decrease in the ratio of phosphocreatine to atp during hand-grip exercise in patients with myocardial ischemia reflects a transient imbalance between oxygen supply and demand in myocardium with compromised blood flow. exercise testing with 31p nmr is a useful method of assessing the effect of ischemia on myocardial metabolism of high-energy phosphates and of monitoring the response to treatment.
immediate and short-term results of a 1988-1989 coronary angioplasty registry. to determine the relevance of recent refinements in angioplasty technology to our particular practice, the records of 507 consecutive patients undergoing a first percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) at our center between october 1988 and may 1989 were reviewed. at the time of ptca, 41% of these patients had class iv angina and 44% were identified as having multivessel disease. dilatation was attempted in 734 lesions (mean 1.5 per patient), of which 95 (13%) were chronic total occlusions. overall, 69% of the 734 lesions were judged anatomically complex, and, in dilating these lesions, a rail-type device was used almost exclusively. successful dilatation was achieved in 659 of the 734 (90%) attempted lesions. there were low incidences of the major complications of death (0.4%), myocardial infarction (1.8%) and emergency bypass surgery (1.8%). acute rethrombosis occurred in 54 patients (11%). in these patients, initial strategy of repeat dilatation was successful in 38 of 47 patients (81%). overall, primary clinical success at ptca was achieved in 480 patients (95%). at a mean follow-up of 7.5 +/- 1.5 months in 497 of the study patients, the event-free rate (freedom from cardiac death, myocardial infarction, repeat ptca or coronary bypass surgery or recurrence of severe [class iii to iv] angina) was 71%. in conclusion, despite the often complex coronary disease in patients currently presenting to our center, a high initial success rate and acceptable short-term outcome of ptca was achieved.
mycoplasma pulmonis infections cause long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation in the respiratory tract of the rat. these experiments were done to learn whether mycoplasma pulmonis infections of the respiratory tract of rats can potentiate "neurogenic inflammation" and whether this potentiation is amplified by factors that exacerbate the infections. pathogen-free f344 rats were inoculated intranasally with m. pulmonis or with sterile culture medium and then lived for 4 wk in an ammonia-free atmosphere or in air containing ammonia (100 parts per million). neurogenic inflammation was evoked by an intravenous injection of capsaicin, and 5 min later the magnitude of the response was quantified by measuring the amount of extravasation of two tracers, monastral blue pigment and evans blue dye. we found that vascular permeability in the tracheas of all rats was normal in the absence of capsaicin. however, a 75-micrograms/kg dose of capsaicin, which caused almost no extravasation of evans blue in the tracheas of pathogen-free controls (17 +/- 3 ng/mg; mean +/- se), produced extensive extravasation in the infected rats (135 +/- 18 ng/mg; p less than 0.001). similarly, this dose of capsaicin produced 30 times as much monastral blue extravasation in the infected rats (area density = 47 +/- 8% of surface area) as it did in the pathogen-free rats (1.6 +/- 0.5%; p less than 0.001), a difference that resulted from increases in the number of monastral blue-labeled postcapillary venules and in the amount of labeling per venule. exposure of the infected rats to ammonia exacerbated the infections, further increased the number of monastral blue-labeled vessels and the amount of labeling per vessel, and made the rats so sensitive to capsaicin that a normally tolerable dose of 150 micrograms/kg i.v. caused fatal apnea. ammonia did not have these effects in pathogen-free rats. we conclude that m. pulmonis infections of the airway mucosa cause a potent, long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation, which results in part from an increase in the number and responsiveness of mediator-sensitive postcapillary venules. these changes can be amplified by environmental factors such as ammonia which exacerbate the infections.
dental patient reaction to electrocardiogram screening. ninety-one patients receiving routine dental treatment at the university of minnesota school of dentistry participated in an electrocardiogram screening study. the purpose of the study was to evaluate patient reaction to electrocardiogram screening in a dental school clinic. the vast majority of patients indicated the test was easy and did not intrude on the dental appointment. most of the patients reported that the test was a valuable service and should be available in the dental office. none of the patients indicated that the tests should not be performed in the dental office. few patients expressed any significant concern or anxiety about the test either before or after it was completed. twenty-six percent (24/91) of the patients were found to have a cardiac arrhythmia; however, most of these were nonserious arrhythmias (18/24) and would not have had an impact on planned dental procedures. six patients were identified with arrhythmias that required medical referral before dental treatment was started.
endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the gallbladder: direct dissolution of gallstones. percutaneous transhepatic catheterization of the gallbladder for dissolution of cholesterol stones by instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether (mtbe) is an invasive therapeutic procedure. the only non-invasive alternative available to now, endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the cystic duct, was difficult because of the cystic duct's tortuosity and spiral valves. we therefore developed a catheter system which, using conventional duodenoscopes during a routine endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (erc) procedure, permits reliable and safe catheterization of the gallbladder without the need for endoscopic sphincterotomy. in 18 of 22 patients (82%) we were able to place a cysto-nasal catheter, and in 14 patients mtbe dissolution therapy was then performed. eight patients (57%) were completely free of stones after treatment; the other six (43%) had residual debris. in 4 of 22 patients (18%) cannulation attempts failed, in 3 patients due to cystic duct blockage by a calculus. endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the gallbladder (ercg) represents a promising alternative to the invasive percutaneous transhepatic catheterization procedure.
high-grade dysplasia in the columnar-lined esophagus. abnormal columnar lining of the esophagus is a well-recognized premalignant condition. the management of patients with high-grade dysplasia without evidence of carcinoma remains controversial. esophagectomy is proposed by some investigators, whereas others favor follow-up endoscopy and biopsy until microinvasive malignancy is documented. we reviewed our experience with nine patients referred with high-grade dysplasia on endoscopic biopsies without evidence of carcinoma. eight patients had the columnar lining extending orad from the cardia, and one patient had heterotopic columnar epithelium in the cervical esophagus. all were white men ranging in age from 19 to 76 years (median: 47 years). eight patients underwent esophagectomy with colon interposition. a sleeve resection of the cervical esophagus was done in one patient. multifocal carcinoma was found in three patients, all of whom had severe dysplastic changes throughout the columnar lining. the patient with heterotopic columnar epithelium had microinvasive carcinoma. all four patients with carcinoma had negative nodes and are long-term survivors. no carcinoma was found in the resected specimens of the remaining five patients. high-grade dysplasia is an important marker of malignancy in patients with a columnar-lined esophagus. esophagectomy is indicated in suitable candidates since carcinoma was found in 45% of our patients.
fluctuation in timing of upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscle activity in obstructive sleep apnea. an imbalance in the amplitude of electrical activity of the upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscles is associated with both collapse and reopening of the upper airway in obstructive sleep apnea (osa). the purpose of this study was to examine whether timing of the phasic activity of these inspiratory muscles also was associated with changes in upper airway caliber in osa. we hypothesized that activation of upper airway muscle phasic electrical activity before activation of the chest wall pump muscles would help preserve upper airway patency. in contrast, we anticipated that the reversal of this pattern with delayed activation of upper airway inspiratory muscles would be associated with upper airway narrowing or collapse. therefore the timing and amplitude of midline transmandibular and costal margin moving time average (mta) electromyogram (emg) signals were analyzed from 58 apnea cycles in stage 2 sleep in six osa patients. in 86% of the postapnea breaths analyzed the upper airway mta peak activity preceded the chest wall peak activity. in 86% of the obstructed respiratory efforts the upper airway mta peak activity followed the chest wall peak activity. the onset of phasic electrical activity followed this same pattern. during inspiratory efforts when phasic inspiratory emg amplitude did not change from preapnea to apnea, the timing changes noted above occurred. even within breaths the relative timing of the upper airway and chest wall electrical activities was closely associated with changes in the pressure-flow relationship. we conclude that the relative timing of inspiratory activity of the upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscles fluctuates during sleep in osa.
treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin. two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects. one patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids. the fourth patient had a flare-up of his crohn's disease after starting isotretinoin.
macrophage antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production after cecal ligation and puncture in c3h/hen and c3h/hej mice. following cecal ligation and puncture with a 25-gauge needle, endotoxin-sensitive c3h/hen mice have a 45% mortality compared with no mortality in endotoxin-resistant c2h/hej mice. macrophage production of interleukin 1 and antigen presentation were studied in these two strains of mice following cecal ligation and puncture at 2, 4, 8, 16, and 24 hours and at 2, 4, 6, and 8 days. splenic macrophages were cultured with a t-helper cell clone (d10.g4.1), and antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production were measured by d10.g4.1 proliferation. macrophage antigen presentation by c2h/hej mice was markedly increased compared with that in c3h/hen mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture, most strikingly at 2 days (185m740 cpm for c3h/hej mice vs 30,300 for c2h/hen mice). macrophage interleukin 1 production was significantly increased in c3h/hej mice vs c3h/hen mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture (except at 2 days) and was maximal at 8 days (25,000 cpm for c3h/hej mice vs 5190 for c3h/hen mice). these data suggest that the differences in mortality after cecal ligation and puncture between these two strains of mice may relate to a supranormal response of macrophages of c3h/hej mice or to an inadequate response of macrophages of c3h/hen mice.
hemodynamic changes in splenic blood flow during and after distal splenorenal shunt. the purpose of this study was to examine the hemodynamic changes of the spleen and the subsequent influence on the numbers of blood cells both during and 1 month after distal splenorenal shunt (dsrs) with splenopancreatic disconnection in 20 patients with portal hypertension. the intraoperative splenic blood flow, measured with an electromagnetic flowmeter, significantly increased after shunt insertion: the mean percentage increases within the splenic vein and artery were 60% (p less than 0.01) and 37% (p less than 0.05), respectively. the splenic venous blood flow, measured with a pulsed doppler flowmeter, had not changed significantly 1 month postoperatively (676 +/- 501 to 540 +/- 306 ml/min). the wbc and platelet counts significantly (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively) increased 1 month postoperatively, whereas there was a small, but significant (p less than 0.05), decrease in rbc count. we concluded that splenic blood flow increases immediately after dsrs with splenopancreatic disconnection, but this increase may be only short term. the influence of the postoperative hemodynamic changes on blood cell count is uncertain.
association of the renin-sodium profile with the risk of myocardial infarction in patients with hypertension background. to test the prognostic value of plasma renin activity prospectively, we determined the pretreatment renin-sodium profile of 1717 subjects with mild-to-moderate hypertension (mean age, 53 years; 36 percent white; 67 percent men) in a systematic work-site treatment program. methods. renin profiles, obtained by plotting plasma renin activity against the urinary excretion of sodium, were classified as high (12 percent of the subjects), normal (56 percent), and low (32 percent), and there were expected variations according to age, sex, and race. modified stepped-care treatment for hypertension, prescribed without reference to the renin profile, was similar in the three renin groups. results. mean (+/- sd) blood pressure at entry was 151 +/- 19/100 +/- 10 mm hg in the subjects with a high renin profile, 151 +/- 19/97 +/- 10 mm hg in those with a normal profile, and 151 +/- 20/96 +/- 11 mm hg in those with a low profile. during 8.3 years of follow-up, there were 27 myocardial infarctions. as adjusted for age, sex, and race, the incidence of myocardial infarction per 1000 person-years was 14.7 among the subjects with a high renin profile, 5.6 among those with a normal profile, and 2.8 among those with a low profile (rate ratio for high vs. low, 5.3; 95 percent confidence interval, 3.4 to 8.3). the rate of mortality from all causes was 9.3 in the high-profile group, 5.3 in the normal-profile group, and 3.9 in the low-profile group. the independent association of a high renin profile with myocardial infarction (but not with stroke or noncardiovascular events) was affirmed by cox analyses (rate ratio for high vs. normal plus low, 3.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 8.4) after adjustment for race, sex, age at entry, serum cholesterol level, smoking status, electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy, blood glucose level, body-mass index, history of cardiovascular disease or treatment, blood pressure, and use of beta-blockers. conclusions. in the study population, whose blood pressure before and during treatment was in a narrow range, and after other cardiovascular risk factors had been considered, the renin profile before treatment remained independently associated with the subsequent risk of myocardial infarction.
management of posterior urethral strictures secondary to pelvic fractures in children. bulboprostatic anastomotic urethroplasty was performed in 20 children with posterior urethral strictures secondary to bony pelvic fractures. the approach was perineal in 4 children and transpubic abdominoperineal in 16, with good postoperative results in 100 and 62.5%, respectively. in some children the urethral disruption occurred within the prostate itself and not at the prostatomembranous junction. in such cases the proximal sphincteric mechanism may be at risk and immediate repair of the injury is advisable. in the case of common prostatomembranous disruption displacement of the urethra may be significant. in such cases a transpubic approach is preferable. if the proximal sphincteric mechanism is deranged, it can be managed at the same time.
management of stage a prostate cancer. transrectal ultrasonography has defined a new category of stage a disease, namely nonpalpable lesions diagnosed by needle biopsy. how this type relates to classic stage a disease is unclear. stage a1 carcinoma becomes clinically significant only in a distinct minority of patients, and even in this group, progression does not necessarily mean significant morbidity or death from prostate cancer. an aggressive approach is not justified. in contrast, stage a2 cancer is usually virulent, and aggressive therapy with curative intent is justified in patients of appropriate age and health. both radical prostatectomy and external irradiation appear to provide long-term survival rates superior to those obtained with observation alone, but nearly 20% of these patients will die of cancer despite therapy. unfortunately, forecasting the outcome in an individual case is still not possible, and efforts to identify prognostic features must continue. in the meantime, emotional arguments in favor of the treatment of all discovered cancers must be suppressed by an informed and objective understanding of the natural history of nonpalpable prostate cancer and the potential impact of treatment.
low incidence of asymptomatic brain metastases in patients with renal cell carcinoma. brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma are uncommon. the present study was undertaken to determine the value of routine computerized tomographic (ct) scanning of the brain in patients with renal cell carcinoma. a review of 106 patients with renal cell carcinoma who had undergone ct scan of the brain revealed brain metastases in only 13.2 percent. brain metastases were accompanied by central nervous system (cns) symptoms in 78.6 percent of patients, with headaches constituting the most common presenting symptom (64.3%). brain metastases were detected in only 3.3 percent of patients who had no cns symptoms at the time of evaluation. it is concluded that ct scanning of the brain should be performed routinely only for those patients who report cns symptoms at the time of evaluation.
traumatic and spontaneous extracranial internal carotid artery dissections. seventy patients with spontaneous and 21 with traumatic extracranial internal carotid artery dissections were studied clinically and angiographically with mean follow-ups of 64 (spontaneous group) and 40 months (traumatic group). sixty percent of the patients in the spontaneous group and 71% in the traumatic group also had follow-up angiograms. in traumatic dissections aneurysms were common, significantly fewer aneurysms resolved or became smaller and fewer stenoses resolved or improved, whereas more stenoses progressed to occlusion. traumatic dissections were more likely to leave the patients with neurological deficits. a significantly higher percentage of the patients with spontaneous dissections were asymptomatic at follow-up compared with the traumatic group. although both spontaneous and traumatic dissections of extracranial internal carotid arteries mostly carry a good prognosis, the outcome may be somewhat less favorable for the traumatic group.
physician practices in the diagnosis of dementing disorders. because there are both treatable and untreatable causes of dementia, the physician's ability to conduct (or refer a patient for) a differential diagnosis could have a profound effect on health outcomes for patients and on health care costs. this study was undertaken to assess physician practices with regard to the diagnosis of dementing disorders. data from 53 physicians (a response rate of 48%) in several specialties were obtained from a self-administered mail questionnaire. results indicate that the majority of physicians provided history taking, physical examination, and neurological examination. physicians were more likely to refer patients for psychiatric and neuropsychological examinations than to provide these services themselves. the results also point to deficiencies in two key areas: the use of formal, published diagnostic criteria, and the use of mental status and cognitive function tests. over 75% of physicians surveyed did not use either dsm-iii or nincds-adrda diagnostic criteria, and 42% of physicians did not provide any mental status tests themselves. the need for continuing education to close knowledge gaps is emphasized.
clinical interaction of salt and weight change on blood pressure level. studies that examine the effect of altered body weight or dietary sodium on blood pressure level are reviewed. emphasis is placed on studies that compare the effects of weight reduction or sodium restriction in separate comparison groups or analyze the independent effect of the two intervention modalities in multiple regression analysis. additional analyses of the hypertension prevention trial data are presented. most studies, where comparison can be made, suggest a greater effect for weight reduction than for the achieved, moderate, or short-term reduction in sodium intake on subsequent lowering of blood pressure; the lowering effect on blood pressure of weight reduction is independent of the effect of dietary sodium restriction. however, long-term (over a year) substantial reductions (up to 70 meq/day) of dietary sodium have not been achieved in comparative trials, nor are the effects of combined weight and sodium reduction in the prevention and treatment of hypertension quantified. future studies and potential problems are discussed.
alpha 1-acid glycoprotein and the binding of lidocaine in children with congenital heart disease. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of congenital heart disease (chd) on the serum concentrations of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (alpha 1-agp) and the serum binding of lidocaine. thirteen children with acyanotic chd and 12 children with cyanotic chd were studied and compared with 28 children without heart disease (control). the mean (+/- sd) serum concentration of alpha 1-agp, as determined by radial immunodiffusion, did not differ significantly among the three groups. five minutes after administration of 1.5 mg.kg-1 intravenous lidocaine, the free fraction of lidocaine correlated inversely and linearly with the serum concentration of alpha 1-agp in children with acyanotic chd (r2 = 0.74; p less than 0.001) cyanotic chd (r2 = 0.57; p less than 0.005), and control (r2 = 0.63; p less than 0.001). the slopes and intercepts of the linear regressions did not differ significantly among the three groups. we conclude that the serum concentration of alpha 1-agp in children with chd does not differ quantitatively or qualitatively from that in children without chd.
alcohol-dependent unilateral vestibular impairment persisting after a closed head injury. a 20-year-old man suffered a closed head injury followed by symptoms of right-sided labyrinthine concussion with complete clinical recovery within 3 weeks. episodic vertigo and ataxic gait occurred after the ingestion of small amounts of alcohol over the next 2 years. electro-oculography revealed a right-sided peripheral type vestibular lesion, only after taking alcohol. this was interpreted as an alcohol-induced impairment of central compensation following an incomplete recovery from right-sided labyrinthine trauma.
lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. a new association. we describe cases of severe odynophagia, extensive oral ulcerations, and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis. such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis. in addition, deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis. we review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine, interferon alfa, and h2 blockers in our patients. based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era, we postulated an association between these two entities.
noninvasive measurement of portal venous blood flow in patients with cirrhosis: effects of physiological and pharmacological stimuli. the present study aims to evaluate the usefulness of combined pulse doppler-real-time ultrasonography as a noninvasive method for the measurement of portal blood flow in man. this measurement technique was performed on 12 healthy subjects and 20 patients with portal hypertension. ten patients (group 1) were evaluated prior to and after ingestion of a standard meal (ensure plus) or placebo. in the remaining 10 patients (group 2), the effects of isosorbide dinitrate (5 mg/sl) administration or placebo were studied. in group 1, food intake caused a significant increase of portal blood flow (from 1038 +/- 539 to 1572 +/- 759 ml/min, p less than 0.02); this effect was due to a significant rise in mean blood velocity (from 18.5 +/- 3.7 to 23.9 +/- 3.9 cm/sec, p less than 0.02). in group 2, isosorbide dinitrate significantly reduced portal blood flow (from 985 +/- 491 to 625 +/- 355 ml/min, p less than 0.05); a significant decline of mean blood velocity (from 18.8 +/- 4.5 to 14.5 +/- 2.5 cm/sec, p less than 0.02) was observed. placebo administration had no significant hemodynamic effects in either group. our results suggest that doppler measurements gave accurate noninvasive estimations of portal blood flow and that this technique may be used to monitor physiological and pharmological stimuli in patients with portal hypertension.
window operation: an alternative treatment method for bartholin gland cysts and abscesses recently, we developed the "window operation" as a more effective way to treat bartholin gland cysts and abscesses. the window operation was used to treat 25 bartholin cysts and 22 bartholin abscesses during a 3-year period from october 1, 1986 to september 30, 1989. under local anesthesia, a small piece of skin including the cyst wall was excised in an oval shape, and suturing was performed along the excised margin. postoperative antibiotics were given in cases of acute inflammation. a new mucocutaneous junction was observed at the 4-week postoperative checkup. no complications or recurrences have been observed during the study period. the window operation can be an alternative method of treatment for bartholin gland cysts or abscesses.
intracerebral hematoma complicating split calvarial bone-graft harvesting. a case is reported of an intracerebral hematoma following the harvest of split calvarial bone. full recovery by the patient occurred. complications following calvarial bone graft harvest are reviewed. potential devastating complications warrant serious consideration of alternative sources of bone, especially in the purely elective surgical candidate.
chronic fetal hypoxia and sudden infant death syndrome: interaction between maternal smoking and low hematocrit during pregnancy. to investigate the hypothesis that chronic fetal hypoxia contributes to the etiology of sudden infant death syndrome (sids), a possible interaction between the effect of maternal cigarette smoking and low hematocrit during pregnancy on the risk of sids was studied using the us collaborative perinatal project cohort. the 193 sids cases identified in the cohort were analyzed with 1930 controls randomly selected from infants who survived the first year of life. after adjustment for maternal age, infants born to mothers who smoked 10 or more cigarettes per day and who were anemic (hematocrit less than 30%) during pregnancy were at a much higher risk of sids than infants born to mothers who did not smoke and were not anemic (odds ratio = 4.0; 95% confidence limits, 2.1 and 7.4). smoking 10 or more cigarettes per day vs none increased the risk of sids by 70% among women with hematocrit at or above 30% but increased risk threefold among women with hematocrit below 30%. after adjustment for more potential confounders in a logistic regression model, the effect of smoking on sids continued to increase with lower levels of hematocrit during pregnancy. birth weight accounted for very little of these associations. low hematocrit was not a risk factor for sids among nonsmokers but became an important predictor among heavy smokers. these findings are in agreement with the hypothesis that chronic fetal hypoxia may predispose to sids, possibly by impairing the normal development of the fetal central nervous system.
free radical inhibition and serial chemiluminescence in evolving experimental pancreatitis. oxygen free radical activity and inhibition were examined in experimental pancreatitis. twenty-five rats were randomized to five groups: controls received intravenous saline, to simulate pancreatitis one group received intravenous caerulein (5 micrograms kg-1 h-1), and three groups received sodium taurocholate via the pancreatic duct (0.2 ml, 5 per cent), either alone, following allopurinol or immediately before superoxide dismutase. chemiluminescence (a phenomenon based on the emission of light during chemical reactions and which is dependent on oxygen free radical activity) was used as an index of oxygen free radical activity and was measured in tissue samples at 5-min intervals following induction of pancreatitis. the control mean(s.e.m.) serum amylase level 1 h after induction of pancreatitis was 635(13) units. it was significantly elevated in caerulein-induced pancreatitis, 1833(118) units (p less than 0.05) and exceeded 3000 units in all taurocholate-infused animals. mean(s.e.m.) chemiluminescence ranged from 44 (8) mv 100 mg-1 at time zero to 404(113) mv 100 mg-1 at 1 h in controls. in caerulein-induced pancreatitis mean(s.e.m.) chemiluminescence peaked at 20 min (1399(239) mv 100 mg-1, p less than 0.02) and in taurocholate-induced pancreatitis at 15 min (2316(95) mv 100 mg-1, p less than 0.004). superoxide dismutase significantly reduced chemiluminescence and hyperamylasaemia in taurocholate groups. increasing oxygen free radical activity paralleled evolving pancreatitis. superoxide dismutase may have a therapeutic role in pancreatitis.
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot. following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action, a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially. in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling; pain also was alleviated. evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided. we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump, based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation. the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor (edrf) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important.
diffuse hemangiomatosis of the spleen: splenic hemangiomatosis presenting with giant splenomegaly, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. in an elderly patient with oligosymptomatic giant splenomegaly, clinical and laboratory data were nondiagnostic, while nonhomogeneous splenic enlargement was the only finding detected by imaging procedures. splenectomy was performed and diffuse hemangiomatosis of predominantly capillary-type found. the failure of imaging techniques to even hint at the nature of the underlying disorder is comprehensible in view of the organ being essentially replaced in toto by the abnormal vascular channels. diffuse splenic hemangiomatosis, a rare condition, may cause hypersplenism, and its diagnosis may be elusive because of misleading patterns on imaging.
extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction for renovascular hypertension. extracorporeal reconstruction can be applied to the successful repair of stenoses in the distal renal artery and its hilar branches. this study evaluates the short- and long-term results of extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction in 65 patients, including 5 children, with renovascular hypertension who were treated from 1974 through 1989. the mean age of the patients was 37 years (range, 7 to 67 years). the cause of the stenoses was arteriosclerosis in 8 patients, fibrodysplasia in 54 patients, and miscellaneous in 3. hypertension was severe before treatment with a mean blood pressure of 187/147 mm hg that was reduced to a mean of 159/102 mm hg after medical therapy. ten patients had renal dysfunction. results were evaluated both at short-term intervals (mean, 7.9 months; 64 patients) and long-term intervals (mean, 5.9 years; 60 patients), after surgery. blood pressure responses were classified as beneficial (cured/improved) or failures. anatomic results were evaluated by angiography in 98% of the patients at the short-term interval and in 77% of the patients at the long-term interval. extracorporeal renal artery surgery was performed on 78 kidneys among 65 patients (unilateral, 45 patients; bilateral, 13 patients; unilateral extracorporeal and contralateral in situ, 7 patients). in most of the cases autologous arterial graft was used for reconstruction. early in the series one patient died as a result of the operative procedure (1/65, 1.5%). a beneficial blood pressure response occurred in 53 patients (53/65; 82%) at the short-term interval and in 49 patients (49/61; 80%) at the long-term interval, with the average blood pressure at the short-term interval being 138/85 mm hg and at the long-term interval being 139/85 mm hg. renal function improved in all patients with preoperative renal dysfunction. graft stenosis or occlusion of the main renal artery was neither observed at the short-term interval nor at the long-term interval. however, residual stenoses were observed in 9 of the 163 reconstructed distal branches (5.5%). extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction with autologous arterial grafts can be effectively applied to lesions of the distal main renal artery and its hilar branches with durable functional results.
glucagonoma syndrome is an underdiagnosed clinical entity. glucagonomas, considered among the rarest of the islet cell neoplasms, produce a well-defined clinical syndrome characterized by necrolytic migratory erythema, diabetes mellitus, glossitis, anemia, and weight loss. this report describes seven patients with glucagonoma treated at our institution. all seven had the characteristic dermatologic manifestations, present from 1 to 6 years prior to diagnosis. five patients had extensive disease at the time of initial operation, three of whom underwent aggressive cytoreductive surgery, whereas the other two had biopsy only. the remaining two patients presented with a single nodule each, underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, and remain free of disease 2 and 6 years postoperatively. earlier recognition of the distinctive physical findings peculiar to this syndrome should increase survival. aggressive cytoreductive surgery results in prolonged remission.
serial left ventricular performance evaluated by cardiac catheterization before, immediately after and at 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. although impaired ventricular function has been shown to improve after aortic valve replacement, there are few data on hemodynamic changes after balloon aortic valvuloplasty based on follow-up catheterization. of 71 patients surviving 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty, 41 agreed to late recatheterization. all patients had pre- and postvalvuloplasty and 6 month catheterization data measured with high fidelity micromanometer pressure recordings and simultaneous digital subtraction left ventriculography. the hemodynamic result immediately after valvuloplasty included a reduction in the aortic valve gradient and a moderate increase in aortic valve area (0.51 +/- 0.14 to 0.81 +/- 0.19 cm2, p less than 0.0001). ejection fraction increased slightly (52 +/- 18 to 55 +/- 17%, p less than 0.0001) despite a decrease in peak positive rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (dp/dt 1,650 +/- 460 to 1,500 +/- 490 mm hg/s, p less than 0.05). there was also a decrease in left ventricular afterload and a small decrease in preload. at 6 month recatheterization, the mean aortic valve gradient and area were similar to baseline values, with 31 (76%) of 41 patients demonstrating valvular restenosis. at 6 months many left ventricular hemodynamic variables, including peak positive dp/dt and stroke work, also resembled prevalvuloplasty values. however, left ventricular end-diastolic volume was reduced (111 +/- 40 ml at 6 months versus 136 +/- 52 ml before valvuloplasty, p less than 0.01). the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was unchanged from prevalvuloplasty values in the study group of 41 patients, but was significantly improved in 9 of 15 patients with a baseline ejection fraction less than 50%.
intravenous nicardipine: an effective new agent for the treatment of severe hypertension. fifty-six patients with severe hypertension were treated with intravenous nicardipine for infusion periods of eight to twenty-four hours. each patient achieved satisfactory blood pressure control during the infusion period with a mean controlling dose of 7.85 mg/hr. the dose of nicardipine needed for sustained blood pressure control correlated with untreated diastolic blood pressure but not with untreated systolic blood pressure. these results demonstrate the potential usefulness of intravenous nicardipine for the treatment of severe hypertension requiring rapid lowering, and they suggest also that the severity of pretreatment diastolic hypertension might be a useful indicator of the dose required for blood pressure control.
clinical and biologic effects of granulocyte colony stimulating factor in the treatment of myelokathexis. successful treatment of a patient with myelokathexis, a rare form of chronic neutropenia associated with recurrent infections, is described. rapid mobilization of bone marrow neutrophils and improved myeloid morphologic features were observed after treatment with human granulocyte colony stimulating factor. transient thrombocytopenia and bone pain were observed during treatment. although neutrophil chemotaxis, superoxide production, and fcriii surface expression were reduced, the patient improved clinically after restoration of a normal neutrophil count.
interaction of chloramphenicol and metabolites with colony stimulating factors: possible role in chloramphenicol-induced bone marrow injury. we have recently demonstrated that two chloramphenicol (cap) metabolites known to be produced by intestinal bacteria, dehydro-cap (dh-cap) and nitrophenylaminopropane (npap), are much more cytotoxic to bone marrow in vitro than cap itself. since colony stimulating factors (csfs) play an essential role in hematopoietic cell growth, toxicity from cap metabolites could also involve interaction with csf or csf-producing cells. in the present study, we found that increasing concentrations of rhgm-csf or rhg-csf completely reversed the inhibitory effect of cap (2 x 10(-4) m) on human cfu-gm growth and on the growth of kg-1 cells. gm-csf also reversed the inhibitory effect of cap on hl-60 cells. inhibition by dh-cap (50% at 5 x 10(-7) m), nitroso-cap (no-cap) (60% at 5 x 10(-6) m) and npap (35% at 10(-5) m) was not affected by either csf. in addition to their inhibitory effect on cell growth, dh-cap (5 x 10(-6) m) and no-cap (5 x 10(-6) m) inhibited csf production by buffy coat cells 50-70% without affecting cell viability. neither cap nor npap inhibited csf production. it is suggested that the dual toxic-inhibitory effect of some intestinal metabolites of cap such as dh-cap on hematopoietic cell growth on the one hand, and on csf production on the other, renders them very potent as potential mediators of cap induced aplastic anemia.
tympanosclerosis of the middle ear: late results of surgical treatment. the late results of one stage operation for middle ear tymanosclerosis in 73 patients during the period january 1965 to december 1980 are presented. mean observation time was 11.2 years (range 3-20.2 years), with a follow-up rate 86 per cent. among 64 patients with stapes fixation, 59 had removal of tympanosclerotic masses and stapes mobilization, and five cases underwent stapedectomy. the series was divided into six groups and the results analyzed. the best and most stable results occurred in the group with stapes mobilization and an intact ossicular chain followed by the group with stapes mobilization and type ii tympanoplasty with incus interposition. the poorest late results were obtained in ears with lacking stapes crura and stapes mobilization, and in ears subjected to stapedectomy. no case of post-operative sensorineural hearing loss occurred. we recommend that care is taken to preserve an intact ossicular chain at stapes mobilization performed at the same stage as myringoplasty. also in ears with a defective ossicular chain but intact stapes with tympanosclerotic fixation we recommend stapes mobilization in one stage. in ears with fixation of the stapes footplate and defective crura, we recommend stapedectomy or stapedotomy in two stages.
physicians' perspectives on cholesterol and heart disease. in early spring of 1988, questionnaires were mailed to 4,000 midwestern physicians to survey their attitudes and practices regarding elevated serum cholesterol and their use of referrals for nutrition counseling; 633 physicians responded. sixty-eight percent of the physicians thought that reducing high serum cholesterol levels would substantially affect heart disease; however, physicians attributed considerably less preventive value to reducing the cholesterol level than to reducing blood pressure (80.3%) or ceasing smoking (90.0%). the range of serum cholesterol for which diet therapy was most frequently initiated was 5.70 to 6.20 mmol/l. the most frequent range for initiation of drug therapy was 7.80 to 8.25 mmol/l. the physicians reported that although their medical school training did not prepare them adequately for providing diet counseling, they did feel prepared to provide, and were successful in, counseling on diet modifications for reducing serum cholesterol. few (10%) of the total sample reported having registered dietitians available for dietary counseling, and most (88.8%) believed that it is the physician's responsibility to provide such counseling. although the low response rate limits the conclusions of the survey, it is likely that those physicians most interested in the topic responded. we conclude that registered dietitians should explore the need for their special services further. more aggressive marketing of dietetic services could benefit both physicians and patients in the campaign to reduce serum cholesterol.
another way of pumping blood with a rotary but noncentrifugal pump for an artificial heart. this article describes an alternative mode of pumping blood inside the body. the device is a non centrifugal, valveless, low speed rotary pump, electrically powered, based on wankel engine principle. the authors developed an implantable electrical actuator resulting in a compact, sealed motor-pump unit with electrical and magnetic components insulated from fluids. the results in the flow curve and in the pumping action show some common points but also some basic differences compared to classical pulsatile pumps or centrifugal pumps. the blood coming from the atrium follows a continuous movement without any stop flow but with variations creating pulsatility. ejection and filling of the pump are simultaneous. it is always an active filling. hydraulic efficiency depends on clearance in the pumping chamber and outlet port pressure. a 60 cc device allows flows up to 8-9 liters. the implantable motor is cyclindrical in shape, has a moderate weight (490 grams) and presents a good efficiency (32% for a rotary speed of 90 rpm against a mean aortic pressure of 150 mm of hg). the authors conclude that their device could be proposed after further experimental studies, as an lvad for shortterm assistance with a good promise for permanent application.
a comparative study of gastrointestinal infections in united states soldiers receiving doxycycline or mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis. a double blind study of daily doxycycline (100 mg) vs. weekly mefloquine (250 mg) was performed on united states soldiers training in thailand to assess the effect of doxycycline malaria prophylaxis on the incidence of gastrointestinal infections. during a 5 week period, 49% (58/119) of soldiers receiving doxycycline and 48% (64/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine reported an episode of diarrhea. infection with bacterial enteric pathogens was identified in 39% (47/119) of soldiers taking doxycycline and 46% (62/134) of soldiers taking mefloquine. forty-four percent (59/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 36% (43/119) of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with enterotoxigenic escherichia coli (etec), while 9% (12/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 4% of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with campylobacter. side effects from either medication were minimal. after 5 weeks in thailand, the percent of non-etec strains resistant to greater than or equal to 2 antibiotics increased from 65% (77/119) to 86% (95/111) in soldiers on mefloquine and from 79% (84/106) to 93% (88/95) in soldiers on doxycycline. doxycycline prophylaxis did not prevent or increase diarrheal disease in soldiers deployed to thailand where etec and other bacterial pathogens are often resistant to tetracyclines.
immunophenotyping in the management of gastric lymphoma. primary gastric lymphoma is a rare tumor in which surgical resection plays a major role in improving the response rate and reducing the incidence of bleeding and perforation after chemotherapy. in 17 consecutive patients, the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma was made by immunophenotyping snap-frozen endoscopic biopsy specimens. all neoplasms were b-cell lymphomas. pan b surface marker antigens were present in all patients. levels of ki-67, a nuclear marker of tumor proliferation, were greater than 45% in two of the four patients who died after progression of their lymphoma. all patients alive had ki-67 levels of less than 30%. a lower proliferation index, as measured by ki-67, appears to be associated with better prognosis. ten of 11 patients treated by resection prior to chemotherapy had no complications. immunophenotyping is the key in the differential diagnosis when considering malignant lymphoma with gastric carcinoma and benign conditions such as pseudolymphoma.
outpatient percutaneous central venous access in cancer patients. a 1-year experience of percutaneous subclavian catheterization in outpatients with cancer was reviewed to document reliability, safety, and cost. there were 763 catheter insertions attempted with prospective documentation of complications in 664 consecutive patients. catheter insertion was successful in 722 attempts (95%). there were only 13 pneumothoraces (2%). thirty catheters required repositioning (4%). the average catheter duration was 191 days (range: 0 to 892 days). fifty-six catheters (8%) were removed because of suspected infection. documented catheter sepsis occurred in 21 patients (3%); catheter site infection occurred in 8 patients (1%). thus, only 0.22 infections per catheter year occurred during this 382 catheter-year experience. the estimated cost of catheter insertion was $562, which is one-third the estimated cost for tunneled catheters ($1,403) and for reservoir devices ($1,738). in our experience, percutaneous subclavian catheterization is a reliable, cost-effective method compared with tunneled or reservoir devices, with an equivalent incidence of catheter-related infections. the cornerstone of our success with this program is a staff dedicated to catheter care and intensive patient education. in centers where a large number of patients require central venous access, percutaneous catheterization should be the technique of choice.
biliary pain in postcholecystectomy patients without biliary obstruction. a prospective radionuclide study. biliary pain without obvious biliary obstruction is common in postcholecystectomy patients. we studied 20 symptomatic patients with episodes of biliary-type pain after cholecystectomy (all having undergone endoscopic retrograde cholangiography), and in 18 asymptomatic postcholecystectomy controls. we performed quantitative hepatobiliary radionuclide analysis with dimethyl-imidodiacetic acid. from a series of 90 dynamic images at 1-min intervals using a gamma camera coupled to a computer, time-activity curves were produced in regions of interest in the liver, intrahepatic biliary tree, common duct, and heart, from which quantitative biliary excretion indexes were obtained. the results demonstrate a biliary kinetic dysfunction in patients with postcholecystectomy pain without morphological abnormalities.
isolated congenital stapes ankylosis: surgical results in 32 ears and a review of the literature. isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is described in 32 operated ears from 28 patients. in 27 ears, a regular stapedectomy was performed. in the remaining 5 ears, 2 had stapes gushers, 2 had bony stapedial tendons, and 1 had an aberrant facial nerve crossing the oval window. the average individual hearing gain was 20 db. the mean hearing gain for the 24 successful stapedectomies was 29 db. in 24 of 32 ears (75%), an essential hearing gain of at least 15 db fletcher's index hearing threshold could be achieved. a fletcher's index not exceeding 30 db could be achieved in 19 of 32 ears (60%), in spite of several cases with a sensorineural component in the hearing loss. a review of the literature and overview of longer series with isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is presented.
sunlight and dysplastic nevus risk. results of a clinic-based case-control study. the dysplastic nevus (dn) is the most important risk factor and precursor for malignant melanoma. the authors compared the responses of 132 consecutive cases of dn, 186 consecutive cases of cutaneous melanoma, and 239 controls attending the same subspecialty clinic to questions regarding sun sensitivity, sun exposure, and other possible risk factors. dysplastic nevus cases were younger than controls and were of a higher social class, as indicated by more years of formal education. sun sensitivity (assessed by reported depth of tan after multiple exposures) was associated with both dn risk and melanoma risk after controlling for age and education in logistic regression analysis (p = 0.009 and 0.03, respectively), but for dn risk this association was nonlinear: the relative risks (versus deep tan) were 2.3 for average tanners, 2.8 for light tanners, and 1.6 for those who reported practically no tan. sun exposure measures were not associated with dn risk after controlling for age and education, whether or not depth of tan was controlled in the analysis. these observations suggest a role for either sunlight or a trait linked with sun sensitivity in the development of dysplastic nevi.
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome. fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist. in this study, we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease (djd) and 46 normal controls. ninety (73%) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 (37%) djd patients and none of the normal controls (p less than 0.001). ninety-nine patients (81%) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern, and 77 (63%) had alternating diarrhea and constipation. in contrast, only 24 (44%) of djd patients and six (13%) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 (22%) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea (p less than 0.01). other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas (59%), nausea (21%), diarrhea (9%), and constipation (12%). seventy-nine (64%) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47% of the time. laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group (19%) and absent in the other two groups. fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients, compared to 28% of djd patients, felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed. if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed, appropriate treatment may improve patients' symptoms, although this approach requires further study.
gunshot wounds to the cervical spine. a retrospective review was performed on 28 patients with low-velocity gunshot wounds to the cervical spine. these composed 31% of all spinal gunshot wounds seen during the study period between 1979 and 1988. surgical decompression did not seem to improve neurologic recovery in either the incomplete or complete patients. neurologic recovery also appeared to be unaffected by the presence of retained intracanal bullet fragments. the authors found no advantage to routine neck exploration of this penetrating injury. complications were seen in 93% of the patients. most complications were thromboembolic, pulmonary, and urinary tract infections. no cases of instability occurred as a direct result of the gunshot wound. no deaths occurred in this series. two cases of posttraumatic syrinxes were diagnosed. the authors' current treatment recommendations for these patients include selective wound management and observation of retained intracanal bullet fragments in patients with complete lesions. surgical decompression after this injury is not recommended.
rapid, nonradioactive detection of clonal t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid neoplasms. southern blot hybridization analysis of clonal antigen receptor gene rearrangements has proved to be a valuable adjunct to conventional methods for diagnosing lymphoid neoplasia. however, southern blot analysis suffers from a number of technical disadvantages, including the time necessary to obtain results, the use of radioactivity, and the susceptibility of the method to various artifacts. we have investigated an alternative approach for assessing the clonality of antigen receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens. this approach involves the amplification of rearranged gamma t-cell receptor genes by the polymerase chain reaction and analysis of the polymerase chain reaction products by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. by use of this approach, clonal rearrangements from neoplastic lymphocytes constituting as little as 0.1-1% of the total cells in the tissue are detected as discrete bands in the denaturing gel after the gel is stained with ethidium bromide and viewed under ultraviolet light. in contrast, polyclonal rearrangements from reactive lymphocytes appear as a diffuse smear along the length of the gel. our findings suggest that polymerase chain reaction combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis may offer a rapid, nonradioactive, and sensitive alternative to southern blot analysis for the diagnostic evaluation of lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens.
identification of a cdna encoding a second putative prohormone convertase related to pc2 in att20 cells and islets of langerhans. pc2 and furin are two recently identified members of a class of mammalian proteins homologous to the yeast precursor processing protease kex2 and the bacterial subtillisins. we have used the polymerase chain reaction to identify and clone a cdna (pc3) from the mouse att20 anterior pituitary cell line that represents an additional member of this growing family of mammalian proteases. pc3 encodes a 753-residue protein that begins with a signal peptide and contains a 292-residue domain closely related to the catalytic modules of pc2, furin, and kex2. within this region 58%, 65%, and 50% of the amino acids of pc3 are identical to those of the aligned pc2, furin, and kex2 sequences, respectively, and the catalytically important asp, his, and ser residues are all conserved. on northern blots, pc3 hybridizes to two transcripts of 3 and 5 kilobases. tissue distribution studies indicate that both pc2 and pc3 are expressed in a variety of neuroendocrine tissues, including pancreatic islets and brain, but are not expressed in liver, kidney, skeletal muscle, and spleen. the high degree of similarity of pc3, pc2, and furin suggests that they are all members of a superfamily of mammalian proteases that are involved in the processing of prohormones and/or other protein precursors. in contrast to furin, pc3, like pc2, lacks a hydrophobic transmembrane anchor, but it has a potential c-terminal amphipathic helical segment similar to the putative membrane anchor of carboxypeptidase h. these and other differences suggest that these proteins carry out compartmentalized proteolysis within cells, such as processing within regulated versus constitutive secretory pathways.
contracturing granulomatous myositis: a separate entity. granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis, but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation. patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles. there are, however, a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs. two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs, but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease, is presented. it is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness. the association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related.
role of endothelium-derived nitric oxide in the bleeding tendency of uremia. endothelium-derived relaxing factor, now identified as nitric oxide (no), is a labile humoral agent formed by vascular endothelial cells from l-arginine. no mediates the action of substances that induce endothelium-dependent relaxation and plays a role in regulating blood pressure. in this study we investigated whether no is involved in the pathogenesis of the bleeding tendency associated with renal failure. rats with extensive surgical ablation of renal mass develop renal insufficiency due to progressive glomerulosclerosis. like uremic humans, rats with renal mass reduction and uremia have a bleeding tendency that manifests itself by a prolonged bleeding time. we found that n-monomethyl-l-arginine (l-nmma), a specific inhibitor of no formation from l-arginine, completely normalized bleeding time when given to uremic rats. l-nmma injection also increased ex vivo platelet adhesion but did not affect ex vivo platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate, arachidonic acid, and calcium ionophore a23187. the shortening effect of l-nmma on bleeding time was completely reversed by giving the animals the no precursor l-arginine, but not d-arginine, which is not a precursor of no. it thus appears that no is a mediator of the bleeding tendency of uremia.
modulation of fluid absorption and the secretory response of rat jejunum to cholera toxin by dietary fat. to study the effects of dietary fat on jejunal water and ion absorption and on cholera toxin-induced secretion, 3 week old sprague dawley rats were fed isocaloric diets. forty per cent of the total calories were given as fat, as butter (high saturated fat), olive oil (high monounsaturated fat), or corn oil (high polyunsaturated fat), with one group on low fat (10% of calories) standard laboratory diet as controls. during in vivo jejunal perfusion studies we found that (i) a polyunsaturated fat (corn oil) supplemented diet improves jejunal absorption of water and electrolytes and these changes are independent of the observed concentrations of luminal prostaglandins; (ii) high dietary fat appreciably reduced the secretory response to cholera toxin, probably without fundamentally changing the mechanism by which cholera toxin induces secretion. we conclude that dietary fat composition altered the permeability and transport characteristics of the small intestine. this observation might have relevance to some human diarrhoeal disorders.
growth abnormalities in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. growth abnormalities in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into two groups: local and systemic. local disorders of growth often result in increased bone length and bone age or in marked decreases in longitudinal growth due to immobilization, premature epiphyseal closure, or fusion. common growth defects seen in the knee, hand, wrist, hip, spine, and jaw are discussed. systemic growth delay is most commonly secondary to active disease or treatment with corticosteroids. nutritional aspects such as decreased appetite, reduced caloric intake, metabolic caloric requirements greater than available intake, or lack of essential vitamins could be the cause for decreased weight and stature.
regulation of the truncation of luteinizing hormone receptors at the plasma membrane is different in rat and mouse leydig cells. regulation of the truncation of lh receptors was investigated in two types of mouse tumor leydig cells (ma10 and mltc-1), rat testis leydig cells (rtl), and a rat tumor leydig cell (r2c). receptor numbers were measured by binding [125i]hcg to the cells cultured in monolayers. addition of 3.3 nm lh for 2 h at 34 c had no detectable effect on binding sites in rtl or r2c cells, but in ma10 and mltc-1 cells it caused a loss in binding sites. the effect on ma10 and mltc-1 cells could be mimicked by inhibiting receptor internalization with 5 mm nan3 and prevented by the addition of protease inhibitors. incubating rtl and r2c cells with protease inhibitors caused a 2- to 3-fold increase in binding sites and a 2- to 3-fold increase in lh (0.033 and 0.33 nm)-stimulated camp production. when rtl and ma10 cells were incubated in the presence of [125i]hcg, a radioactive protein complex with an approximate mol wt of 80,000-90,000 was released into the incubation medium. we conclude that lh receptors are regulated by proteolysis at the plasma membrane in both mouse and rat leydig cells. furthermore, truncation of the lh receptor in the mouse leydig cells is involved in down-regulation, whereas in the rat it is a continuous process.
neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin, carbamazepine, and valproic acid: implications for use in traumatic brain injury. due to the risk of posttraumatic epilepsy, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and valproic acid are often prescribed for patients with traumatic brain injury (tbi). in this review the literature is examined for evidence of neurobehavioral impairment due to carbamazepine, phenytoin, and valproic acid. no comparative studies have been performed in the tbi population, making if difficult to determine if one of these medications is preferable. direct inference from studies on epilepsy patients to tbi patients is hazardous due to underlying differences in the two populations. reported findings for epilepsy patients are subtle and not consistent across studies. all three drugs appear to exert some effect on cognitive and motor functions in epileptic patients, and these impairments worsen at increasing serum levels. the varied length of experience with each drug makes it difficult to assign relative weight to the evidence for or against each. a comparative assessment of cognitive and behavioral effects of anticonvulsants should be done in the tbi population.
achievement of life goals by adult survivors of modern treatment for childhood cancer. to assess the impact of the diagnosis and modern treatment of childhood cancer on achievement of adult goals, the authors evaluated employment, health and life insurance coverage, marriage, divorce, and reproduction in 227 former pediatric cancer patients. each area was evaluated in relation to a common set of disease and demographic factors that included age at follow-up, age at diagnosis, gender, marital status, history of disease recurrence, and diagnosis. patients were younger than 20 years of age at diagnosis, and their diagnoses were made between january 1, 1960, and december 31, 1984. the median age at diagnosis was 11.4 years, and the median age at follow-up was 26.6 years. the percentage of unemployed male respondents did not differ from population norms. the percentage of unemployed female respondents, however, was slightly higher than that of the united states population. approximately 11% of the survivors reported some form of employment-related discrimination, a level significantly lower than that of prior reports. company-offered health insurance was provided to 92.4% of full-time and 90.0% of part-time employed respondents. life insurance was purchased by 60% of full-time employed men and 55% of women. these percentages were lower than those reported for the united states population. twenty-four percent of those with life insurance had difficulty obtaining it. fifty-eight percent of the subjects were married or lived as married. the percentages of married men and women were significantly lower than united states norms. twenty percent of those who were married or lived as married have divorced or separated or no longer live as married. women aged 20 to 24 years were less likely to marry, and women aged 35 to 44 years had a significantly higher frequency of divorce than similarly aged united states women. in general, the history of childhood cancer did not influence the decision to marry or live as married but was occasionally (20%) important in the decision to dissolve a marital relationship. many former patients indicated that their diagnosis and treatment for childhood cancer influenced their decision to have children. the current study suggests that most former pediatric cancer patients achieve adult life goals. additional research is necessary to define those populations at greatest risk of failure to achieve these goals.
leishmania (viannia) braziliensis: comparative pathology of golden hamsters infected with isolates from cutaneous and mucosal lesions of patients residing in tres bracos, bahia, brazil. the histopathology of primary forepaw and metastatic lymph node, spleen, and liver lesions produced in golden hamsters infected with cutaneous leishmaniasis (cl) strains (ltb 111 and ltb558) and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (mcl) strains (ltb12 and ltb201) of leishmania (viannia) braziliensis isolated from patients residing in tres bracos, bahia, brazil is described. no pathological features providing clear differentiation of the cl and mcl strains were found. although amastigotes were plentiful early in the development of primary forepaw lesions, they were either absent or could not be identified with certainty in sections of late stage lesions. similarly, amastigotes were not found in histologic lesions at metastatic sites; however, leishmanial dna was detected in both early and late stage forepaw lesions and metastatic lesions using leishmania kinetoplast dna and the gene coding for gp63 as hybridization probes. the dna recovered from metastatic lesions was extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues that had been stored at room temperature for prolonged periods.
dissection of the aorta and dissecting aortic aneurysms. improving early and long-term surgical results. we report the improving surgical results in a consecutive series of 690 patients referred to one of us (e.s.c.) for aortic dissection between december 1956 and september 1989, a substantial portion of whom had dissection as a complication of either previous aortic (n = 113, 16) or previous cardiac (n = 54, 8%) operation. our initial operation of choice in patients requiring multiple operations in this group of 690 patients was based on the most life-threatening or symptomatic aortic segment involved, which was ascending aorta and/or aortic arch (asc/arch) in 301 (44%) patients, descending thoracic aorta (desc) in 195 (28%) patients, and thoracoabdominal aorta (taa) in 194 (28%) patients. as detailed below, considerable improvement occurred in the 30-day survival rates over time, particularly for acute dissection: [table; see text] the independent determinants of both early and long-term mortality were identified. independent determinants of late fatal rupture, reoperation, and neuromuscular dysfunction for distal dissectors were also identified. in our experience, continued aggressive surgical intervention for aortic dissection with modern operative techniques has resulted in markedly improved 30-day operative survival (approaching 95% including those patients with acute dissection) and significant improvement in late results.
repair of pelvic fracture posterior urethral defects using an elaborated perineal approach: experience with 74 cases. a total of 74 patients with posterior urethral distraction defects (1.5 to 7 cm. long) that followed pelvic fracture was managed by a 1-stage perineal repair. end-to-end anastomosis was performed in all cases but in 66 a variety of surgical maneuvers were necessary to accomplish a tension-free anastomosis. these techniques, which included distal urethral mobilization, corporeal body separation, inferior pubectomy and supracrural urethral rerouting, were resorted to in a sequential manner as needed. excellent results were achieved in 96% of the cases. these surgical techniques are described and discussed.
coagulation-fibrinolysis abnormalities in acute and chronic phases of cerebral thrombosis and embolism. we assayed plasma concentrations of fibrinogen, fibrinopeptide a, plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex, d dimer, and antithrombin iii activity in 40 patients with cerebral thrombosis and nine patients with cerebral embolism during the acute (less than 7 days), subacute (7-27 days), and chronic (greater than or equal to 28 days) periods and compared these with 69 controls. in cerebral thrombosis, fibrinogen and fibrinopeptide a levels were elevated significantly in all stages (p less than 0.001), whereas plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex and d dimer levels were elevated significantly in the subacute and chronic periods. the antithrombin iii activity was significantly decreased in the acute stage. the elevation of fibrinogen and plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex levels in the acute stage was significantly greater in patients with an infarct size greater than 10 mm2 compared to patients with an infarct size less than 10 mm2. we observed similar changes in patients with cerebral embolism. these results suggest that enhanced coagulation exists at all stages and endogenous fibrinolysis is activated in the subacute and chronic periods in a large proportion of patients with cerebral thrombosis and embolism.
concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor (tati) in pleural effusions. we measured the concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor (tati) in plasma and pleural fluid of 84 patients with pleural effusions of various causes. we observed elevated (greater than 30 micrograms/l) tati levels in pleural fluid in 45 percent of patients with pleural effusion associated with malignant disease and in 15 percent of patients with benign disease. similar results were obtained for tati in plasma. the concentration of tati in pleural fluid closely parallelled that in plasma. in patients with renal insufficiency and in patients with biliary obstruction, the tati levels were elevated both in plasma and pleural fluid. a positive correlation was seen between the concentration of tati and the activity of alkaline phosphatase in plasma. the results show that simultaneous determination of tati in plasma and pleural fluid improves the diagnosis of cancer only marginally. our results also support the hypothesis that elevated tati levels may reflect an acute phase reaction caused by inflammatory disease or tissue destruction associated with cancer not only in inflammatory conditions, but also in malignant disease where the tumor itself is not producing tati.
dna analysis of neoplasia: an introduction for the family physician. pathologic evaluation of a neoplastic process has traditionally consisted of microscopic examination of a stained section of tissue. although this method is generally reliable when performed by an experienced pathologist, the morphologic features of a lesion may not consistently predict biologic behavior. the dna content of tumors can be studied with a flow cytometer to help determine the prognosis and risk of tumor recurrence. dna analysis of a neoplasm may provide the clinician with important prognostic information and, at some future date, may help direct chemotherapy or other treatment protocols.
operative choledochoscopy: common bile duct exploration is incomplete without it. this paper reviews the reported experience of operative choledochoscopy. development of choledochoscopes to the currently available rigid and flexible instruments is described. the collected results of both rigid and flexible choledochoscopy are reported. retained stones occurred in 97 of 2712 stone-positive explorations with the rigid choledochoscope (3.6 per cent) and in 35 of 1726 stone-positive explorations with the flexible choledochoscope (2.0 per cent). choledochoscopy should now be a mandatory part of common bile duct exploration.
recent trends in cesarean section use in california. cesarean section use in the united states has increased to 24.7% of deliveries in 1988 and is the most common hospital surgical procedure. california cesarean section rates were examined to measure recent trends in obstetric practices and to project future patterns of cesarean section use. using discharge abstracts from 1983 to 1987 california hospital deliveries, total cesarean section rates were found to increase from nearly 22% in 1983 to 25% in 1987, an increase of 15%. using a series of least-squares regression models, time trends in the distribution of indications associated with cesarean section among all deliveries and indication-specific cesarean section rates were evaluated. increases in the number of women with previous cesarean section and fetal distress contributed to rising cesarean section rates. in addition, indication-specific cesarean section rates increased for breech presentation and dystocia. these trends were counterbalanced, in part, by declining rates of repeat cesarean sections. trends noted for july 1985 through 1987 did not differ substantially from those observed for january 1983 to june 1985, suggesting that recent policy attempts to alter cesarean section use have not had a measurable effect on existing trends. projections suggest that california cesarean section rates will rise to a level of 34% by the year 2000.
eosinophilic ascites due to hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis. we report the case of a patient with cryptogenic cirrhosis, new onset ascites, and hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis who had significant eosinophilia of the peritoneal fluid. the eosinophilia resolved with treatment of the s. stercoralis infection, and did not recur during two subsequent episodes of ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. eosinophilic ascites is rare in parasitic infection, but it has been described in a variety of disorders which are discussed.
increased survival of ards patients with severe hypoxemia (ecmo criteria). the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ards) is a form of diffuse lung injury associated with multiple risk factors. patients with severe hypoxemia who meet blood gas criteria defined by the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation trial (ecmo) of 1974 to 1977 have a reported survival of 11 percent. the reported survival has remained unchanged for 15 years despite numerous technologic advances. we prospectively studied ards patients who met ecmo blood gas criteria. one hundred seventy-eight ards patients were prospectively screened over a 30-month period. fifty-one of these patients met ecmo blood gas criteria and 23 (45 percent) survived (p less than 0.001 vs ecmo trial). no obvious differences in etiology, apache ii score, organ system failure, or the incidence of sepsis was found between survivors and nonsurvivors. we conclude that survival of ards patients who met ecmo blood gas criteria in our institution is higher than that previously reported from both other centers and our own hospital.
organ procurement in patients with fatal head injuries. the fate of the potential donor. a 46-month, retrospective review of all victims of fatal head injury at a level 1 trauma center was undertaken to estimate donor organ availability, determine causes of procurement failure, and analyze the functional results of organs transplanted from this group of donors. causes of procurement failure in 126 patients who died principally from their head injuries included failure of initial resuscitation (14%), ineligibility (28%), failure of physiologic support (14%), and denial of consent (20%). of 73 eligible donors, 29 (41%) were able to donate one or more vascular organs (heart, liver, kidney). in only one instance was an eligible donor not appropriately identified as such. failure of physiologic support to prevent early death (25%), and denial of consent (34%) were found to be the two major, potentially remediable causes of procurement failure in this series. based on this data, an estimated 29 patients/million population/year will survive initially and meet all eligibility requirements for organ donation. data on 47 kidneys transplanted from the donor group demonstrated a 77% overall graft survival rate at a follow-up period averaging 23 months. prolonged donor hypotension, but not the use of high-dose vasopressors, adversely affected allograft survival. the current limitations of organ procurement in victims of fatal head injury stem from a limited ability to maintain cardiopulmonary function long enough for the procurement process to be completed and a high overall rate (46%) of denial of consent for organ harvest by next of kin.
study of the influence of left bundle branch block on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram: a qualitative and quantitative analysis. to study the influence of left bundle branch block (lbbb) on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (saecg), quantitative and qualitative analyses of saecg parameters were undertaken in 48 patients with electrocardiographic evidence of intrinsic lbbb and in 39 patients with a "normal" surface qrs duration (less than 120 msec) who underwent right ventricular pacing-induced lbbb. we assumed pacing of the right ventricular apex to be a suitable model of this conduction defect. sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (smvt) was inducible in 16 of 48 patients with intrinsic lbbb and in 23 of 39 patients with pacing-induced lbbb. utilizing a filter setting of 25 to 250 hz, late potentials were defined as a total filtered qrs duration greater than or equal to 120 msec, a root mean square voltage in the terminal 40 msec (rms 40) of less than or equal to 25 microv, and the duration of signals less than 40 microv (las 40) of greater than or equal to 38 msec. only rms 40 and las 40 criteria were used in patients with lbbb. prolongation of las 40 and fragmentation of signals in the terminal portion of the filtered qrs were characteristic of all patients with lbbb aberration. of those patients with intrinsic lbbb, the mean total filtered qrs duration, rms 40, and las 40 for inducible and noninducible patients were significantly different (170 +/- 28, 16 +/- 10, 55 +/- 24, and 153 +/- 18 msec, 25 +/- 10 microv, 33 +/- 16.9 msec; p = 0.04, 0.009, and 0.007, respectively). noninducible patients with a normal qrs duration demonstrated a 60% decrement in the mean rms 40 value during pacing-induced lbbb. these changes resulted in a 59% false positive incidence of late potentials during pacing-induced lbbb. this correlated with a similarly low mean rms 40 value in patients with intrinsic lbbb and no inducible smvt, hence giving rise to a false positive incidence of late potentials of 63%. since "standard" rms 40 and las 40 criteria resulted in low specificity and positive predictive value, new parameters were selected and analyzed. the combination of rms 40 less than or equal to 17 microv plus las 40 greater than or equal to 55 msec yielded the best overall statistical result, with a sensitivity, specificity, and total predictive accuracy of 69%, 81%, and 77%, respectively. in conclusion: (1) a reduction of rms 40, prolongation of las 40, and fragmentation of signals in the terminal portion of the filtered qrs are characteristics of lbbb.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
increased ca2+ signaling after alpha-adrenoceptor activation in vascular hypertrophy. in an effort to explain the increased sensitivity to agonists of hypertrophic vascular muscle, intracellular ca2+ concentration ([ca2+]i)-signaling mechanisms were studied in normal and hypertrophic rat aortas from normotensive and coarctation-hypertensive rats. based on both fura 2 fluorescence and aequorin luminescence measurements, qualitatively different patterns of ca2+ mobilization occur in normal and hypertrophic rat aortic muscle. normal rat aortic muscle contracts to phenylephrine with little or no increase in [ca2+]i, whereas the angiotensin ii-induced contraction is accompanied by a marked [ca2+]i transient. in contrast, hypertrophic rat aortic muscle shows a dramatic increase in ca2+ signaling after phenylephrine stimulation. moreover, both the amplitude of the angiotensin-induced [ca2+]i transient and the contractile sensitivity to this agonist are decreased in the hypertrophic muscle. our results strongly suggest that the amplitude of the [ca2+]i transient after agonist stimulation determines the contractile sensitivity and that there is an altered coupling of the alpha-adrenoceptor in the hypertrophic vascular muscle.
evidence against leukotrienes as mediators of brain edema. leukotrienes are powerful metabolites of arachidonic acid which are known to increase the permeability of peripheral blood vessels. these substances are found in brain tissue in association with cerebral ischemia, and in brain tumors. therefore, it has been proposed that leukotrienes have a mediator function in brain edema. this hypothesis was subjected to further experimental analysis in this study, in which the authors investigated whether: 1) superfusion of the exposed brain surface with leukotrienes increases the permeability of extraparenchymal blood vessels in vivo; 2) intraparenchymal infusion of leukotrienes induces brain edema; and 3) pharmacological inhibition of leukotriene formation by bw755c, an inhibitor of leukotriene synthesis, reduces formation of brain edema from a standardized traumatic insult. the pial vessels of the parietal cortex of cats were examined by fluorescence microscopy during cerebral superfusion with the leukotrienes c4 (ltc4), d4 (ltd4), or e4 (lte4) by using an open cranial window preparation. intravenous na(+)-fluorescein served as an in vivo blood-brain barrier (bbb) indicator. superfusion of the pia with leukotrienes (up to 2 microm) did not open the barrier to fluorescein, but was associated with a significant constriction (up to 25%) of arterial and venous vessels. in experiments with slow infusion of leukotriene b4 (ltb4) or ltc4 into the white matter of feline brain, the tissue water content was subsequently determined in serial brain slices using the specific gravity method. tissue water profiles obtained after a 15-microm infusion of either ltb4 or ltc4 were virtually identical with those of control animals infused with mock cerebrospinal fluid. thus, neither ltb4 nor ltc4 led to an augmentation of infusion-induced brain edema. in a final series, a cold lesion of the left parietal cortex was induced in rabbits. twenty-four hours later, swelling of the exposed hemisphere was quantified by gravimetrical comparison of its weight with that of the contralateral nontraumatized hemisphere. eight animals received bw755c intravenously prior to and after trauma to inhibit formation of leukotrienes. seven rabbits were infused with an equivalent volume of saline as a control study. the resulting hemispheric swelling was 7.7% +/- 0.6% (mean +/- standard error of the mean) 24 hours later in animals receiving bw755c and 7.8% +/- 1.2% in the control group, indicating that inhibition of leukotrienes was ineffective in preventing formation of vasogenic brain edema. the findings demonstrate that leukotrienes administered to the brain in concentrations occurring under pathological conditions do not open the bbb nor do they induce brain edema.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
myocardial magnesium: relation to laboratory and clinical variables in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. magnesium concentration was measured in the right atrial appendage of 100 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and associations with serum and mononuclear blood cell magnesium, other laboratory values and patient clinical variables were studied. in addition, magnesium was measured in the right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall in 23 autopsy subjects to determine whether there was a proportional relation between right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall magnesium. the mean left ventricular free wall/right atrial appendage magnesium ratio was 2.13 +/- 0.39 (r = 0.67, p = 0.0009). in the group with cardiac surgery, the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated inversely with age (r = -0.54, p = 0.001). the mean right atrial appendage magnesium concentration (micrograms/g wet weight tissue) was lower in patients with postoperative cardiac arrhythmia than in those without arrhythmia (103 +/- 13 versus 111 +/- 10, p = 0.009) and in diabetic than in nondiabetic patients (103 +/- 13 versus 109 +/- 12, p = 0.02). the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration also tended to be lower in patients receiving potassium/magnesium-losing diuretics, although this difference did not achieve statistical significance (105 +/- 14 versus 109 +/- 11, p = 0.16). right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated positively with serum creatinine concentration (r = 0.31, p = 0.002) and negatively with serum calcium concentration (r = -0.29, p = 0.013). serum magnesium did not correlate with right atrial appendage or mononuclear blood cell magnesium concentration or clinical variables. there was a statistically significant correlation between mononuclear blood cell and right atrial appendage magnesium concentrations in some subgroups of patients.
xeroderma pigmentosum: review and report of a case. xeroderma pigmentosum is a rare inherited dermatosis that provides insight into the basic mechanism of carcinogenesis. it is a model disorder linking defective dna repair with clinical abnormalities and neoplasia. uv light-induced damage to the skin begins early and results in multiple benign and malignant skin tumors, especially in sun-exposed areas of the head and neck. oral cancers, primarily squamous cell carcinomas of the anterior third of the tongue, occur with greatly increased frequency. a patient with multiple facial neoplasia and oral manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum is presented. the role of the dentist in surveillance of oral and perioral structures is emphasized. the dentist is advised against the use of uv light-curing units in these patients because uv-induced epithelial damage may cause dysplasia when dna repair mechanisms are dysfunctional.
a study of cyproheptadine in the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor and the malignant carcinoid syndrome. sixteen patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and the malignant carcinoid syndrome were treated with cyproheptadine (periactin, merck, sharp & dohme, west point, pa) at maximum tolerable doses that ranged from 12 to 48 mg daily. usual side effects were mild sedation and dry mouth, but three patients found it impossible to sustain treatment due to nausea and vomiting. most patients had significant relief of diarrhea, frequently associated with weight gain. relief of flushing was uncommon. the therapeutic benefit produced by cyproheptadine would appear to be a peripheral effect because 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-hiaa) excretion in these patients was not reduced. although there have been case reports of objective tumor regression with cyproheptadine therapy, this was not observed in any of these 16 patients. cyproheptadine would appear to be a useful therapeutic tool for the management of diarrhea associated with the malignant carcinoid syndrome. an appropriate initial total daily dose is 0.4 mg/kg divided in three fractions with prompt modification to produce minimal and tolerable side effects.
coronary artery surgery study (cass): comparability of 10 year survival in randomized and randomizable patients. the coronary artery surgery study (cass) includes 780 patients with mild or moderate stable angina pectoris or asymptomatic survivors of a myocardial infarction who were randomized to either medical or surgical therapy and 1,319 patients who were eligible for randomization but were not randomized (randomizable patients). there were no substantial aggregate differences observed in any of the survival comparisons after 10 years of follow-up study between the randomized and randomizable patients assigned to the medical (79% versus 80%) or surgical (82% versus 81%) groups or in patient subgroups stratified according to coronary artery disease extent and left ventricular ejection fraction. cox regression analyses were done with independent variables known to be predictors of survival, including surgical versus medical therapy and randomized versus randomizable group, to test the null hypothesis of a mortality difference between medical versus surgical assignment according to group assignment (randomized versus randomizable). in no case did the initial group category enter as a significant predictor of survival. the results in the randomizable group reinforce those in the randomized group with respect to the medical versus surgical comparison. two subgroups are identified with a significant surgical advantage: 1) patients with proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis greater than or equal to 70% and an ejection fraction less than 0.50, and 2) patients with three vessel coronary artery disease and an ejection fraction less than 0.50. in both groups, coronary bypass surgery had a statistically significant beneficial effect on survival (p less than 0.05). after a decade of follow-up, the cass randomizable patients confirm conclusions reached on the basis of the cass randomized trial.
acute hypervolaemic haemodilution to avoid blood transfusion during major surgery 16 patients underwent acute hypervolaemic haemodilution with dextran 40 and ringers lactate, to see whether this procedure could avoid preoperative blood transfusion. packed cell volume (pcv) and oxygen extraction decreased, and cardiac index and pulmonary wedge pressure increased, although end-systolic area was unchanged. pcv was not significantly different between patients who lost less than or greater than 20% of their initial blood volume. this preoperative manoeuvre, which reduces loss of red blood cells, allowed major surgery to be completed safely without blood transfusion.
long-term results of ionescu-shiley valve in the tricuspid position. a retrospective analysis of the long-term results of using the ionescu-shiley pericardial bioprosthesis in the tricuspid position was carried out on 73 patients (8 men, 65 women). of these procedures, ten were tricuspid valve replacement alone and the remainder were in combination with other valve procedures. the mean follow-up was 9.6 years (range, 4 to 18 years). the mean age of the patients was 53 years (range, 27 to 78 years). seventy-one of the patients suffered tricuspid valve dysfunction from rheumatic heart disease. there were 13 postoperative deaths (within 30 days), giving a mortality rate of 17.8%. the actuarial survival at 10 years was 71% +/- 4.2%. of the survivors, 49 (79.6%) were in functional class i or ii. primary tissue valve failure in the tricuspid position occurred in 1 patient 12 years after implantation and required reoperation. in another patient bioprosthetic tricuspid valve endocarditis developed. there was no incidence of thromboembolic complications. we conclude that the ionescu-shiley pericardial bioprosthesis was a satisfactory prosthesis in the tricuspid position in patients with acquired valvar dysfunction.
somatostatin analogue, octreotide, reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in insulin-dependent diabetes. to determine whether treatment with a somatostatin analogue can reduce kidney hyperfiltration and hypertrophy in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, we studied 11 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and glomerular hyperfiltration. the patients were assigned randomly to receive continuous subcutaneous infusion of either octreotide, 300 micrograms/24 h (five patients) or placebo (six patients) for 12 weeks. at baseline, mean glomerular filtration rate and mean total kidney volume were not significantly different in the two groups. however, after 12 weeks of treatment, the mean glomerular filtration rate was significantly lower in the octreotide group (136 ml/min per 1.73 m2; range, 91 to 158 ml/min per 1.73 m2) than in the placebo group (157 ml/min per 1.73 m2; range, 138 to 184 ml/min per 1.73 m2). furthermore, the mean total kidney volume was significantly lower after treatment in the octreotide group (379 ml/1.73 m2; range, 307 to 454 ml/1.73 m2) than in the placebo group (389 ml/1.73 m2; range, 347 to 465 ml/1.73 m2). glycemic control did not change significantly in either group. we conclude that subcutaneous infusion of octreotide for 12 weeks reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus despite the fact that glycemic control remains unchanged.
human papillomavirus type 16 associated with oral squamous carcinoma in a cardiac transplant recipient. human papillomavirus type 16 (hpv 16) has been associated with a variety of squamous carcinomas, particularly those involving the anogenital tract. the authors report the development of an oropharyngeal carcinoma in a 43-year-old man approximately 20 months after cardiac transplantation while he was on a maintenance regimen of cyclosporine a and prednisone. the carcinoma was resistant to treatment, and he died of complications related to metastatic disease 3 years posttransplantation. molecular biologic studies using nonisotopic-labeled viral dna probes were done. in situ hybridization demonstrated the presence of hpv 16 dna in the tumor cells. dna dot blot analysis confirmed the presence of multiple copies of hpv 16 dna within the tumor cells and their absence from adjacent normal-appearing tissue. southern blot analysis suggested that the hpv 16 dna was integrated into the tumor cell genome. with increasing recognition of the carcinogenicity of hpv type 16 infection, a role for this virus in the development of squamous cell malignancies in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients is likely to be noted with increasing frequency.
lipid peroxidation and hepatic antioxidants in alcoholic liver disease. the generation of hepatic liver peroxidation by free radicals has been proposed as a mechanism for ethanol induced hepatotoxicity. to investigate this hypothesis, lipid extracts from hepatic needle biopsy specimens from alcoholic subjects were examined for evidence of lipid peroxidation by measuring total conjugated dienes by derivative spectroscopy and, after hydrolysis of hepatic lipid extract and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography, the molar ratio between a diene-conjugated linoleic acid isomer (18:2 (9,11)) and the parent linoleic acid isomer (18:2(9,12)). changes were related to hepatic histology, iron deposition, glutathione and vitamin e values. derivative spectroscopy minima suggestive of diene conjugation were identified at 233 and 242 nm and correlated weakly, suggesting these two minima may represent different classes of lipid dienes. there was a weak relation with inflammatory histological changes in the biopsy specimen but no correlation with hepatic iron grade, glutathione, or vitamin e lipid ratio. the proportion of 18:2(9,11) linoleic acid in hepatic lipids correlated significantly with inflammatory histological features and inversely with hepatic glutathione. furthermore, hepatic glutathione was lower in biopsy specimens with greater iron staining. the ratio of vitamin e to lipid was not related to histological group, inflammation, or iron grade. these findings suggest that excess alcohol consumption leads to hepatic inflammation and lipid peroxidation.
florid refractory schizophrenias that turn out to be treatable variants of hla-associated narcolepsy. narcolepsy in which the hallucinatory component is unusually prominent may lead to the development of an illness indistinguishable from the schizophrenic syndrome. psychotic symptoms dominate the symptomatology, so that the primary illness is obscured. five patients are described for whom conventional antipsychotic drugs were ineffectual, but for whom treatment with stimulants produced substantial improvement. the diagnosis of narcolepsy was confirmed by human leukocyte antigen typing and sleep laboratory testing. these results support the "rem intrusion" hypothesis of the causation of schizophrenia in as many as 7% of a series of schizophrenic patients. implications for diagnosis and treatment are discussed.
the leukocyte count: a predictor of hypertension. in an exploratory study of 1031 persons observed to progress from normotension to essential hypertension and 1031 matched subjects who remained normotensive, the initial leukocyte count (wbc) was found to be related to the development of hypertension, with risk increased 40% (95% confidence interval 12-82%) in persons in the highest as compared to the lowest quartile of wbc. this relationship proved to be largely independent of body mass index, body fat distribution, alcohol and tobacco consumption, and parental history of hypertension. an increased wbc may reflect greater sympathetic tone or may directly increase peripheral vascular resistance by impeding circulation through small blood vessels. if confirmed, this study adds another condition to the growing list for which the wbc is predictive. this simple, cheap test should be considered for inclusion in prospective epidemiological studies of many different diseases.
a prospective assessment of the garren-edwards gastric bubble and bariatric surgery in the treatment of morbid obesity. morbid obesity is a serious medical hazard, and effective alternatives to surgery have been unsuccessful. in 1985, the garren-edwards gastric bubble (gegb) was offered as an adjunct to dietary and behavioral therapy for weight loss treatment. the safety and efficacy of the gegb were compared with bariatric surgery, the current standard for the treatment of morbid obesity. fifty-seven patients received gegb and 77 underwent bariatric surgery. gegb patients were divided into two groups: those who attended group therapy and those who did not. this study showed that bariatric surgery was far more effective in reducing excess body weight during a 12-month period compared with the gegb plus group therapy and the gegb alone. the morbidity from bariatric surgery was greater than in the gegb-treated groups, while the cost for uncomplicated cases for a year's treatment was comparable. it is concluded that the gegb does not offer an effective alternative to bariatric surgery in the treatment of morbid obesity.
prophylaxis of uric acid stones with alternate day doses of alkaline potassium salts. uric acid stone formation ordinarily is prevented by increases in the urinary ph after meals. this postprandial alkaline tide is lost in patients who make such calculi. single dose, alternate day administration of an alkaline potassium salt will increase urinary ph and simulate this normal physiological mechanism. an important part of the regimen is patient self-monitoring to verify that the urinary ph increases to greater than 6.8, 1 1/2 to 2 hours after the medication is taken. in contrast to multiple dose daily regimens, this mode of base administration is tolerated better and easier to follow. in 17 patients, 7 with the recurrent gravel/colic syndrome and 10 with prior stones, this regimen abolished calculus formation during an average followup of 2 1/2 years. however, further studies are needed before this regimen can be recommended as standard therapy for uric acid stone prophylaxis.
peripheral arterial occlusive disease of the extremities in the united states: hospitalization and mortality. paode is an important cause of morbidity and health care expenditures among the elderly. data from the nhds and national vital statistics system were used to assess its impact in the u.s. in 1985 to 1987, an estimated 229 thousand men and 184 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of chronic paode. discharge rates were much higher in men and increased sharply with age. lower extremity arteriography was performed during 88 thousand hospitalizations and aorta-iliac-femoral bypass procedures were done during 31 thousand hospitalizations per year. numbers of procedures increased markedly since 1979. an estimated 60 thousand men and 50 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of acute paode. embolectomy or thrombectomy of lower limb arteries was listed for 28 thousand discharges per year. few deaths were attributed to paode. although these data are limited by likely incomplete reporting and by the nonspecificity of diagnostic codes, they provide an indication of the magnitude of the problem. an aging population and advances in surgical techniques suggest continued monitoring using multiple data sources. vigorous primary prevention programs are needed to lessen the impact of all atherosclerotic diseases.
surgical treatment of laryngeal web with mucosa graft. surgical treatment of laryngeal webbing varies with the extent and site of the web. an extensive one seems to be best treated by laryngofissure and skin or mucosa transplantation. recent experiences with four cases of thick glottal webbing indicated that a mucosa graft was better for the voice result than a skin graft. for success in the airway and voice results, the salient points in surgery include 1) precise midline thyrotomy, 2) shaping of the vocal cord under fiberoptic control, and 3) mucosa grafting with the combined use of a pliable stent or fibrin glue for fixation.
esophageal verrucous carcinoma: histologically a low-grade malignancy but clinically a fatal disease. a 76-year-old woman had a verrucous carcinoma of the esophagus with a fistula of the left main bronchus. we discuss this case together with those of eleven other patients with verrucous carcinoma of the esophagus reported previously. differentiation between this tumor and squamous cell papilloma is often difficult. the central cores of fibrous tissue in verrucous carcinoma are heavily infiltrated with inflammatory cells, which accounts for the stenosis often found. the mortality in verrucous carcinoma of the esophagus is 67% even though histologically it is a low-grade malignancy.
the human immunodeficiency virus type 2 vpr gene is essential for productive infection of human macrophages. the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) genetic determinant(s) responsible for tropism in human t cells or macrophages are not well defined. we studied the role of the hiv type 2 (hiv-2) nef and vpr genes in viral tropism. hiv-2 mutants, lacking either vpr or nef genes, or both vpr and nef, were obtained by site-specific mutagenesis of a biologically active hiv-2 proviral clone (hiv-2sbl/isy), which is infectious in both human t cells and macrophages. viral progeny carrying mutations of nef, vpr, or of both nef and vpr genes replicated more efficiently than the parental virus in primary human peripheral blood cells and in the human hut 78 t-cell line. in contrast, the hiv-2 nef- mutant infected human macrophages as efficiently as the parental virus, whereas viruses lacking the vpr gene either alone or in conjunction with the lack of the nef gene did not replicate in macrophages. thus, some lack of nef in hiv-2 enhances viral replication in t cells and does not interfere with viral replication in primary macrophages, whereas vpr is essential for replication of hiv-2 in human macrophages. because the parental hiv-2sbl/isy cloned virus also infects rhesus macaques, the use in animal studies of these hiv-2 mutants with differences in cell tropism and rates of replication will be highly useful in understanding the mechanism of viral infectivity and possibly pathogenicity in vivo.
thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance with a centrifugal pump in patients with valvular prostheses. this article describes two patients with artificial heart valves who suffered thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance using a biomedicus centrifugal pump. the first case involved a 25-year-old man who presented acute blockage of a mechanical aortic valve. emergency surgery was performed to replace this valve with a bioprosthesis. postoperatively the patient developed severe left heart insufficiency and a biomedicus centrifugal pump was placed between the left atrium and the ascending aorta. after 3 days of total left ventricular assistance, weaning was started and successfully completed with explanation on the 5th day. two days later the patient died of multiple coronary embolism with thrombosis of the valve. the second case involved a 30-year-old man. six months before, he underwent surgical procedure with placement of bio-prosthesis for dissecting aortic aneurysm due to annuloectasia. upon admission for terminal dilated myocardiopathy, the patient was in kidney failure almost requiring dialysis. because of this patient's size (marfan syndrome), no donor heart was immediately available and left circulatory assistance with a biomedicus pump had to be initiated. the patient lived without mechanical ventilation, in good clinical condition until day 23 when he presented acute right heart failure due to extensive valvular and coronary thrombosis. from these two cases, several important comments can be made about anticoagulation therapy, partial unloading of left ventricle, or need for biventricular assistance, and efficiency of centrifugal devices in these clinical applications.
genetic traits related to hypertension and electrolyte metabolism. the genetic and cultural heritability and intercorrelation of traits related to hypertension have been carried out in 98 utah pedigrees (2,500 person) and 58 sibships with two or more hypertensive persons (131 hypertensive persons). although none of these traits has been established as a marker for "sodium-sensitive hypertension," many of them are related at least indirectly to both electrolyte metabolism and risk of hypertension. significant recessive monogenic effects and high total heritability (52-84%) were found for urinary kallikrein, high fat pattern index, intraerythrocytic sodium, na-li countertransport, and ouabain binding sites. familial correlations more strongly attributable to shared environment than to genetic effects were found for na,k-atpase pump activity, intraerythrocytic magnesium, plasma digoxin-like factor, plasma renin activity, and plasma sodium concentration. all anthropometric variables tested showed highly significant genetic heritability with low and insignificant shared family environmental effects. several of the genetically determined cellular cation tests also correlated with other genetic traits including plasma lipids, anthropometric measurements, and other cellular cation tests. among hypertensive individuals with familial dyslipidemic hypertension, plasma insulin levels correlated with obesity and lipid abnormalities and with several cellular cation flux tests associated with hypertension.
pruritic papular eruption of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: a clinicopathologic study. the pruritic papular eruption of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is characterized by generalized, pruritic, skin-colored papules and nodules. chronic lesions are excoriated and hyperpigmented. the eruption and pruritus typically wax and wane and are resistant to oral antihistamine and topical steroid therapy. the characteristic histologic features are (1) superficial and mid dermal perivascular and perifollicular mononuclear cell infiltrate with numerous eosinophils and (2) follicular damage of varying degrees. when compared with control subjects, these patients did not demonstrate any significant difference in laboratory or demographic data.
microvillus inclusion disease. in vitro jejunal electrolyte transport. microvillus inclusion disease is an inherited intestinal brush border membrane defect that causes severe fluid and electrolyte malabsorption. in an infant with microvillus inclusion disease (confirmed by electron microscopic evaluation of rectal, jejunal, and gallbladder mucosae), basal stool output was massive (greater than 125 ml . kg-1 . day-1) and was not altered by treatment with clonidine or octreotide. a proximal jejunostomy with mucous fistula was placed, allowing separation of proximal from distal tract outputs (60 ml . kg-1 . day-1 and 100 ml . kg-1 . day-1, respectively). a 10-cm jejunal segment was excised during surgery and mounted in ussing chambers for determination of transepithelial na+ and cl fluxes. compared with intestine of normal infants, this infant's epithelium showed transmural conductance and unidirectional ion fluxes that were only 30% of normal. with respect to both na+ and cl, the excised jejunum was in a net secretory state. theophylline (5 mmol/l) increased net cl secretion slightly. in response to mucosal d-glucose (30 mmol/l), jejunal mucosal-to-serosal na+ flux doubled. in the infant, glucose-electrolyte solution administered intrajejunally did not significantly change stool output, suggesting that all of the solution (40 ml/kg) was absorbed. subtotal enterocolectomy, in theory, could have decreased purging by 66% in this infant with microvillus inclusion disease, but diarrhea would still have been significant.
complete left main coronary artery occlusion: angiographic evaluation of collateral vessel patterns and assessment of hemodynamic correlates. an angiographic study of eight patients with total occlusion of the left main coronary artery identified six patients with chronic occlusion and two with acute complete occlusion. in each of six patients, there were two to six different intercoronary collateral pathways. altogether, a total of 13 specific collateral channels were recognized. one patient had evidence of unique homocollaterals represented by enlarged vasa vasorum, which created a vascular cuff that surrounded a totally obstructed left main artery. the ventricular function and hemodynamic parameters in these patients not only depend on the collateral vessels but may also be affected by the severity of coronary artery disease in the artery that supplies collaterals.
defects in the precore region of the hbv genome in patients with chronic hepatitis b after sustained seroconversion from hbeag to anti-hbe induced spontaneously or with interferon therapy. hepatitis b virus dna clones were propagated from sera of six patients with chronic hepatitis b who seroconverted from hbeag to antibody to hbeag either spontaneously or after administration of alpha-interferon. defects in the precore region blocking synthesis and secretion of hbeag were detected in all 46 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who remained positive for antibody to hbeag and in whom hepatitis resolved. defective clones had point mutations from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region, converting codon 28 from tryptophan (tgg) to a stop codon (tag). in contrast, this defect was not found in any of 39 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who seroconverted to antibody to hbeag but then redeveloped hbeag with reactivation of hepatitis. using these results, the g-to-a point mutation at nucleotide 83 in the precore region would predict sustained positivity for antibody to hbeag and remission of hepatitis in patients who have seroconverted either spontaneously or with interferon therapy.
age at onset of alzheimer's disease. relation to language dysfunction. a later age at onset of alzheimer's disease (ad) was found to be related to diminished language performance in 86 patients with probable ad. a hierarchical linear model was constructed to assess effects of age at onset and disease duration on the performance of patients with ad on four language tasks (naming, reading, auditory comprehension, and writing to dictation) after controlling for disease severity. results of univariate analysis, in which the dependent variable was the averaged language task performances, revealed a significant effect for age at onset of ad, but not for disease duration. to assess the possibility that the relationship between the age at onset of ad and language performance reflects effects of normal aging, the language tasks were given to 33 normal subjects of similar ages who scored perfectly on dementia severity measures. a convincing relationship was not found between test score and age.
geographic patterns of parkinsonism-dementia complex on guam. 1956 through 1985. average annual age-adjusted incidence rates of parkinsonism-dementia complex were obtained for the 19 election districts of guam from 1956 through 1985. the highest rates were found in the southern and central districts, and the lowest rates were found in the northern and western districts. geographic and temporal patterns of incidence were associated with socioeconomic status but not with geochemical factors. the risk of parkinsonism-dementia complex in susceptible sibships was much higher than that in the general population--even in districts with the highest incidence rates, but especially in districts with the lowest incidence rates. our evidence tends to support the hypothesis that multiple factors linked to cycad use play an important role in the cause of pdc. hypotheses related to metal exposure and simple genetic factors were unsatisfactory explanations for the epidemiologic patterns observed.
long-term outcome after surgical repair of isolated atrial septal defect. follow-up at 27 to 32 years background. atrial septal defects have been surgically correctable for more than 30 years. the long-term survival rates among patients treated in the early era of cardiac surgery are poorly documented, but such data are of critical importance to the future medical care, employability, and insurability of these patients. methods. to determine the natural history of surgically corrected atrial septal defects, we studied all 123 patients who underwent repair of an isolated defect (ostium secundum or sinus venosus) at the mayo clinic between 1956 and 1960, 27 to 32 years after the procedure. the follow-up status of all patients was determined by written questionnaires and telephone interviews. hospital records and death certificates were obtained if interim hospitalization or death had occurred. results. the overall 30-year actuarial survival rate among survivors of the perioperative period was 74 percent, as compared with 85 percent among controls matched for age and sex. the perioperative mortality was 3.3 percent (four deaths). actuarial 27-year survival rates among patients in the younger two quartiles according to age at operation (less than or equal to 11 years and 12 to 24 years) were no different from rates among controls--97 percent and 93 percent, respectively. in the two older quartiles (25 to 41 years and greater than 41 years), 27-year survival rates were significantly less (p less than 0.001)--84 percent and 40 percent, respectively--than in controls (91 and 59 percent). independent predictors of long-term survival according to multivariate analysis were age at operation (p less than 0.0001) and systolic pressure in the main pulmonary artery before operation (p less than 0.0027). when repair was performed in older patients, late cardiac failure, stroke, and atrial fibrillation were significantly more frequent. conclusions. among patients with surgically repaired atrial septal defects, those operated on before the age of 25 have an excellent prognosis, but older patients require careful, regular supervision.
facial nerve injury and hemifacial spasm. we studied evidence of facial nerve damage in patients with hemifacial spasm. three types of evidence of nerve damage were analyzed: objectively measured weakness in eyelid protractor strength, clinically evident weakness of muscles innervated by the seventh nerve, and clinically evident aberrant seventh nerve regeneration. of the 60 patients in the study, 54 (90%) had at least one of these features of seventh nerve damage. objectively measured eyelid protractor weakness was noted in 27 of 58 patients (47%) who were tested. clinically apparent weakness of at least one of four facial muscle groups was noted in 42 of 60 patients (70%). aberrant seventh nerve regeneration was documented in 25 of 60 patients (42%). these findings indicate that facial nerve damage is common in patients with hemifacial spasm.
importance of hemodynamic response to therapy in predicting survival with ejection fraction less than or equal to 20% secondary to ischemic or nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. to identify patients with left ventricular ejection fractions less than 20% who are likely to survive on tailored medical therapy after referral to transplantation, this study of 152 patients addressed the hypotheses that (1) severely elevated filling pressures initially measured at referral would not necessarily predict poor outcome, (2) survival would be best when low pulmonary wedge pressures could be achieved with therapy tailored for hemodynamic goals, and (3) coronary artery disease would be an independent risk factor for early mortality. despite an average initial ejection fraction of 0.15, cardiac index of 2.0 liters/min/m2 and pulmonary artery wedge pressure of 28 mm hg, the actuarial survival with tailored therapy was 63% at 1 year, with 34 of 41 (83%) deaths occurring suddenly. survival was not related to initial filling pressure elevation, but was best predicted by the pulmonary artery wedge pressures during therapy; patients achieving pressure of less than or equal to 16 mm hg had 1-year survival of 83 vs 38% (p = 0.0001). the other independent predictors were serum sodium and coronary artery disease. patients with high filling pressures during therapy and coronary artery disease had 21% survival at 1 year. survival after referral to transplantation with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 20% is better than previously described. patients in whom left ventricular filling pressures cannot be adequately reduced by tailored therapy, particularly if coronary artery disease is present, should be considered for early transplantation.
crohn's disease and retinal vascular disease. patients with crohn's disease may manifest extraintestinal findings including ocular involvement. we treated two patients with crohn's disease who manifested retinal vascular disease that may have been related to the immune nature of the underlying disease or possibly to changes in the vasculature or coagulation system. one patient had a central retinal vein occlusion and the other had retinal vasculitis involving retinal arteries and veins with an apparent branch retinal artery occlusion. both patients were in excellent health except for crohn's disease, which was confirmed by a biopsy specimen. in one patient, the diagnosis of retinal vasculitis preceded the clinical diagnosis of crohn's disease, whereas for the second patient the symptomatology of the intestinal disease preceded the ocular manifestations. we suggest that inflammatory bowel disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of retinal vascular occlusive disease, especially in a young patient.
cytomegalovirus in the brain: in vitro infection of human brain-derived cells. models for human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) brain infection have been developed in a variety of brain-derived cells in which the factors governing virus infectivity might be studied in vitro. studies were initiated with brain endothelial cells, the likely portal of entry for virus into the central nervous system. primary explant cultures of brain endothelial cells, derived from homogenates of healthy human brain, supported complete viral gene expression and cytopathic effect (cpe). endothelial cells do not appear to be a barrier for hcmv passage into the central nervous system. astroglial lines (primary explant or tumor-derived) varied in their ability to support hcmv replication. some (t98g) supported incomplete (immediate-early) gene expression while others (a-172) did not support any detectable gene expression. some astroglial lines (hs-683) supported extensive virus replication with minimal viral cpe. neuronal cell lines (sk-n-mc) were fully permissive. the more differentiated glial lines (astrocytoma) were fully permissive to hcmv infection; however, the less differentiated glial lines (glioblastoma) were partly or nonpermissive.
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma. multi-modality treatment consisting of cisplatin, vp-16, and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy given concomitantly with external beam radiation was used to treat 64 patients with locally advanced stage iii non-small cell lung carcinoma. this regimen was used in a preoperative fashion for four cycles in patients considered surgically resectable and with curative intent for six cycles in the remainder of patients. the clinical response rate for the entire group was 84% and the overall local control rate was 74%. the median survival was 13 months with a median follow-up for live patients of 19 months. the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates were 30% and 23%, respectively. histologic complete response was 39% and appeared to predict for survival. the 3-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival rates for 23 resected patients were 69% and 45%, respectively, with the complete histologic responders having a disease-free survival of 78%. the pattern of first recurrence did not appear to differ by histology or presence of lymph nodes in this subset of patients. the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates for inoperable patients receiving six cycles of treatment were 18% and 23%, respectively. the local control was 67% with the majority of these patients having stage iiib disease. the mountain international staging system appeared to predict for operability, local recurrence, and survival. this concomitant treatment regimen is feasible, with the major toxicities being leukopenia, nausea, and vomiting.
androgen response to endogenous insulin secretion during the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test in normal and hyperandrogenic women. women with ovarian hyperandrogenism frequently have insulin resistance, whose underlying mechanism remains to be determined. in the present study we have investigated the relationship between insulin sensitivity and the acute effect of endogenous insulin secretion on circulating androgen levels. insulin sensitivity, glucose-mediated insulin release, and glucose/insulin-stimulated androgen responses were determined during a frequently sampled iv glucose tolerance test in a group of 19 women with clinical evidence of polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) and 9 age- and weight-matched controls. insulin (i), glucose, androstenedione, testosterone (t), free t, and dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) levels were measured before and during the 3 h following iv administration of glucose (300 mg/kg). intravenous tolbutamide (300-500 mg) was injected 20 min after the glucose injection. insulin sensitivity (si) was calculated by application of the minimal model of glucose kinetics. fasting androstenedione, t, free t, and i concentrations were significantly higher in the women with pcos than in controls (p less than 0.02). in pcos subjects, fasting i was correlated with both t (r = 0.51; p less than 0.05) and dhea (r = 0.706; p less than 0.01). si was significantly lower in pcos subjects [si, 68.35 +/- 8.34 min-1/(nmol/ml] than in control subjects (si, 133.36 +/- 21.7 min-1/(nmol/ml)]. a significant decline in dhea levels was observed in control subjects 3 h after glucose administration (from 28.4 +/- 3.0; final, 16.2 +/- 2.4; p less than 0.02). pcos women with normal insulin sensitivity [si, greater than 75.0 min-1/(nmol/ml)] showed a similar fall in dhea (from 20.3 +/- 2.5 to 12.8 +/- 1.8 nmol/l; p less than 0.02). no significant change occurred in insulin-resistant pcos subjects [si, less than 75.0 min-1/(nmol/ml)]. other androgen levels showed a modest nonsignificant decline during the study in pcos and control groups. these findings confirm the weight-independent insulin resistance of some hyperandrogenic women. the failure of glucose-stimulated endogenous insulin secretion to significantly depress dhea levels in insulin-resistant women with pcos may account in part for their androgen excess.
multiagent chemotherapy in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children. twenty-seven evaluable children with early first bone marrow relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia were treated with an intensive induction/consolidation and ongoing maintenance therapy. induction therapy consisted of a 35-day course of daunomycin, vincristine, and prednisone, immediately followed by teniposide, cytosine arabinoside (ara-c), and l-asparaginase. intrathecal methotrexate, hydrocortisone, and ara-c were given through the induction/consolidation phase. twenty-three of 27 patients achieved remission by the end of induction/consolidation. maintenance with the same drugs in a modified dosage schedule continued for approximately 2 years. a small subgroup of patients who were m3 at day 35 but m1 at day 56 (end of induction/consolidation) and had a cumulative event-free survival (efs) of only 0.40 at 6 months, all had relapsed by 15 months. however, the efs for m1 patients by day 35 and maintained on chemotherapy was 0.64 at 12 months and 0.32 at 30, 36, and 48 months, respectively. although good reinduction and remission duration rates at 12 to 24 months were achieved and an apparent plateau in survival occurs at 30 months, fall-off in survival would not be unexpected with probably less than 20% alive after 5 years.
5-year results of cisplatin and fluorouracil infusion in head and neck cancer. as part of the developmental process for the head and neck intergroup trial of adjuvant chemotherapy for advanced resectable head and neck carcinoma, in 1981 the radiation therapy oncology group, philadelphia, pa, conducted two nonrandomized pilot studies using chemotherapy consisting of three courses of cisplatin and fluorouracil infusion. chemotherapy was administered prior to surgery in 42 patients (induction) and after surgery in an additional 29 patients (sequential). the populations were roughly comparable with respect to tumor site and stage. twelve of the 42 patients in the induction group and seven of the 29 in the sequential group are alive and with no evidence of disease at the last reported follow-up. the median survival was 31 months in the sequential group vs 20 months in the induction group. only two of the 26 patients with less than a complete clinical response following induction chemotherapy are still alive. twenty-seven of the 42 patients who received induction chemotherapy did not undergo surgery as initially planned. despite the lack of surgery, at 5 years the survival between the two groups was not significantly different (27% for the induction group vs 23% for the sequential group).
multiple-pulse stimulation and dantrolene in malignant hyperthermia. a potentially fatal condition, yet preventable, malignant hyperthermia (mh) lacks a satisfactory noninvasive diagnostic test. studying the effects of intravenous dantrolene (3 mg/kg) on electrically stimulated skeletal muscle, we found that this approach does not conclusively distinguish between normal humans and those susceptible to malignant hyperthermia but nonetheless yielded important information about the action of dantrolene in man and in mh. supramaximal single- and multiple-pulse stimulation of the common peroneal nerve produced stable torque responses of the dorsiflexor muscles (monitored in vivo), which dantrolene suppressed. with the multiple-pulse stimulation (5-6 pulses) this torque suppression was significantly less in mh-susceptible subjects than in control subjects. this distinction, also observed in mh swine, confirms this animal as a good model for human mh. that dantrolene's effect in mh can be more completely reversed with high frequency stimulation is intriguing; presumably, excitation-contraction coupling differs in mh and normal muscle.
detection and direct sequencing of hepatitis b virus genome by dna amplification method. hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna was detected with amplification by the polymerase chain reaction method. cloned hbv dna equivalent to one virus genome (3 x 10(-6) pg) was detectable by ethidium bromide staining after 50 cycles of polymerase chain reaction. by applying this method, presence of hbv dna was studied in 23 hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag)-positive and 11 hbsag-negative sera from patients with chronic liver disease. hepatitis b virus dna was positive in 8 of 8 hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag)-positive, in 2 of 2 hbeag- and anti-hbe-negative, and in 12 of 13 anti-hbe-positive sera. hepatitis b virus dna was undetectable in all hbsag-negative sera even with amplification. to confirm specificity, the amplified product was directly sequenced. sequences around 122nd and 160th codon of hbs gene, which determines subtypes d/y and w/r, respectively, were analyzed. the results were compatible with recent reports regarding the relation between hbv subtypes and hbv dna sequence at those codons. hepatitis b virus dna could be detected at the level of one virion by gene amplification method, and its sequence could be determined by direct sequencing in a few days.
growth hormone deficiency in children has psychological and educational co-morbidity. growth delay caused by growth hormone deficiency (ghd) is a condition presented with increased frequency to pediatricians. recent evidence suggests these patients should be evaluated developmentally for behavioral and educational problems. such assessment would assure a comprehensive approach to treatment and increase the likelihood of a satisfactory outcome in young adulthood. this article briefly reviews what is known about the behavioral and educational difficulties experienced by growth hormone deficient patients. specific recommendations for educational assessment and anticipatory guidance are presented.
ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of neck nodes. the assessment of nodal involvement in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is still a major diagnostic problem. although the sensitivity of imaging techniques for detection of neck nodes is gradually improving, the specificity for metastases remains low. cytologic examination could, theoretically, supply additive information. computed tomographic-and magnetic resonance-guided aspiration techniques have been described, but these were not efficacious and laborious. in 1984, we developed a technique for ultrasound-guided (ug) fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab). this technique is described herein, and the value of ugfnab is compared with conventional fnab. all statistical characteristics of ugfnab appeared to be superior to conventional fnab (sensitivity, 98% vs 88%; specificity, 95% vs 82%; positive predictive value, 98% vs 93%; negative predictive value, 95% vs 74%; and accuracy, 97% vs 87%). furthermore, ugfnab was characterized by less nondiagnostic aspirations. it is concluded that ugfnab is a reliable technique for differentiation between benign nodes and cervical lymph node metastases and it may, therefore, contribute to a more accurate assessment of the neck in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
delayed rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk: treatment with therapeutic embolization. fourteen days after removal of an internal jugular catheter inserted prior to renal transplantation, a patient presented with brisk arterial hemorrhage from the insertion site. the hemorrhage, caused by a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk, was controlled by transcatheter embolization with gelatin particles. one year later the patient reported no problems related to the pseudoaneurysm or its management.
choroidal osteoma (osseous choristoma): an atypical case. a case of choroidal osteoma presenting in a 22-year-old girl is reported. the tumour, unilateral and in a juxtapapillary site, appeared markedly elevated on the retinal plane, not flat or slightly elevated as in previous reports. visual acuity was not affected, and there was a complete absence of subjective symptoms. echography, fluorangiography, computerised tomography, and visual field tests were performed. echography is the best method for identifying and differentiating this lesion from a malignant tumour.
primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder: favorable prognostic significance of deoxyribonucleic acid diploidy measured by flow cytometry. flow cytometric nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis was done successfully on 38 specimens of primary bladder adenocarcinoma treated between 1954 and 1985. of the specimens 10 (26%) were deoxyribonucleic acid diploid, 8 (21%) were tetraploid and 20 (53%) were aneuploid. distribution of ploidy patterns between the 14 histological low grade and 24 high grade tumors was similar. of 38 tumors 35 (92%) showed muscle invasion. one tumor arose in a previously exstrophied bladder, 10 were of urachal origin and 27 arose in an anatomically normal bladder. of the urachal origin tumors 80% were deoxyribonucleic acid aneuploid. at 5 and 10 years after diagnosis 80 and 70%, respectively, of the patients with diploid tumors were free of disease. by contrast, at 5 and 10 years after treatment only 20 and 12%, respectively, of the patients with nondiploid tumors have not had disease progression (p less than 0.001 log-rank test). none of the 6 patients with diploid, high grade, high stage, muscle invasive tumors had subsequent progression. in contrast, 16 of 17 patients (94%) with high grade, high stage, nondiploid tumors had either local or distant tumor recurrence (p less than 0.0005). nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy pattern appears to be the most significant prognostic information currently available to stratify expected prognosis for patients with muscle invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder. this test probably should be a standard tool in the clinical management of patients with this rare bladder malignancy.
cholecystokinin enhanced hepatobiliary scanning with ejection fraction calculation as an indicator of disease of the gallbladder. chronic acalculous cholecystitis represents 5 to 20 per cent of electively treated diseases of the gallbladder. a 70 per cent success rate in relieving these patients of chronic pain was reported when surgical treatment was recommended based on symptoms alone. the cholecystokinin ejection fraction, which is a quantitative measure of emptying of the gallbladder, was 95 per cent accurate in predicting which patients would be relieved of symptoms by surgical treatment. in this study, we report our consecutive experience during a 20 month period with 83 patients.
role of the protease-antiprotease balance in peritoneal exudate during acute pancreatitis. the peritoneal exudate formed during experimental pancreatitis is toxic when administered intraperitoneally or intravenously to other animals. overwhelming of the peritoneal antiprotease defences by proteolytic enzymes released from the pancreas may be a key factor responsible for this toxicity and is examined in the current study. human pancreatitis exudates possessed tryptic amidase activity indicating trypsinogen activation. the trypsin inhibitory capacities of exudates were reduced indicating a degree of consumption of the peritoneal antiproteases. of 21 exudates examined, three showed marked reduction of their trypsin inhibitory capacity indicating almost complete consumption of their antiproteases. all three patients were shocked at the time of sampling, two dying of fulminant pancreatitis within 24 h. overwhelming of the peritoneal antiproteases was not confirmed, but may occur in a few instances where proteolytic enzyme release or zymogen activation continues. intraperitoneal administration of exogenous antiproteases prolongs survival in rats with pancreatitis and has been suggested as a therapy in man. the current data suggests that few patients are likely to benefit from such an approach.
pulmonary arterial and venous constriction during hypoxia in 3- to 5-wk-old and adult ferrets. we have determined the sites of hypoxic vasoconstriction in ferret lungs. lungs of five 3- to 5-wk-old and five adult ferrets were isolated and perfused with blood. blood flow was adjusted initially to keep pulmonary arterial pressure at 20 cmh2o and left atrial and airway pressures at 6 and 8 cmh2o, respectively (zone 3). once adjusted, flow was kept constant throughout the experiment. in each lung, pressures were measured in subpleural 20- to 50-microns-diam arterioles and venules with the micropipette servo-nulling method during normoxia (po2 approximately 100 torr) and hypoxia (po2 less than 50 torr). in normoxic adult ferret lungs, approximately 40% of total vascular resistance was in arteries, approximately 40% was in microvessels, and approximately 20% was in veins. with hypoxia, the total arteriovenous pressure drop increased by 68%. arterial and venous pressure drops increased by 92 and 132%, respectively, with no change in microvascular pressure drop. in 3- to 5-wk-old ferret lungs, the vascular pressure profile during normoxia and the response to hypoxia were similar to those in adult lungs. we conclude that, in ferret lungs, arterial and venous resistances increase equally during hypoxia, resulting in increased microvascular pressures for fluid filtration.
hyperhomocysteinemia: an independent risk factor for vascular disease. background. hyperhomocysteinemia arising from impaired methionine metabolism, probably usually due to a deficiency of cystathionine beta-synthase, is associated with premature cerebral, peripheral, and possibly coronary vascular disease. both the strength of this association and its independence of other risk factors for cardiovascular disease are uncertain. we studied the extent to which the association could be explained by heterozygous cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency. methods. we first established a diagnostic criterion for hyperhomocysteinemia by comparing peak serum levels of homocysteine after a standard methionine-loading test in 25 obligate heterozygotes with respect to cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (whose children were known to be homozygous for homocystinuria due to this enzyme defect) with the levels in 27 unrelated age- and sex-matched normal subjects. a level of 24.0 mumol per liter or more was 92 percent sensitive and 100 percent specific in distinguishing the two groups. the peak serum homocysteine levels in these normal subjects were then compared with those in 123 patients whose vascular disease had been diagnosed before they were 55 years of age. results. hyperhomocysteinemia was detected in 16 of 38 patients with cerebrovascular disease (42 percent), 7 of 25 with peripheral vascular disease (28 percent), and 18 of 60 with coronary vascular disease (30 percent), but in none of the 27 normal subjects. after adjustment for the effects of conventional risk factors, the lower 95 percent confidence limit for the odds ratio for vascular disease among the patients with hyperhomocysteinemia, as compared with the normal subjects, was 3.2. the geometric-mean peak serum homocysteine level was 1.33 times higher in the patients with vascular disease than in the normal subjects (p = 0.002). the presence of cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency was confirmed in 18 of 23 patients with vascular disease who had hyperhomocysteinemia. conclusions. hyperhomocysteinemia is an independent risk factor for vascular disease, including coronary disease, and in most instances is probably due to cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency.
synthesis of platelet activating factor by ocular tissue from inflamed eyes. platelet activating factors (pafs) are a family of ether lipids with properties that suggest a major role in inflammation. we have previously implicated pafs in ocular inflammation based on the inhibition of several rabbit models of iritis with a specific paf receptor antagonist. we have tested ocular tissues for the ability to synthesize paf. iris, ciliary body, cornea, and/or retina were carefully dissected from new zealand white rabbits, and tissue from four eyes was pooled. tissues were stimulated with calcium ionophore (10 mumol/l), and supernatants were extracted with chloroform-methanol. platelet-aggregating activity was found in the chloroform phase in 2 of 9, 1 of 8, 0 of 9, and 3 of 9 studies involving iris, retina, ciliary body, or cornea, respectively. twenty-four hours after the intravitreal injection of 125 ng of endotoxin, aggregating activity was consistently detectable from supernatants of stimulated iris and ciliary body, occasionally present from stimulated retina but not detectable from cornea. the shape of the aggregation curve resembled that produced by 0.5 to 2.0 ng of authentic paf. moreover, the aggregation could be completely inhibited by a paf receptor antagonist and the aggregating activity chromatographed identically on high-performance liquid chromatography to a paf standard. these studies indicate that paf-like activity could be detected from several ocular tissues subsequent to inflammation. iris, ciliary body, retina, vascular endothelium, and/or leukocytes could each contribute to the presence of this inflammatory mediator.
successful treatment of neonatal citrobacter freundii meningitis with ceftriaxone. citrobacter meningitis is an uncommon enteric gram-negative infection that afflicts neonates and young children. approximately 30 percent of children treated or untreated die from the infection. we report a case of c. freundii meningitis that was resistant to ampicillin and was successfully treated with ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin. a 13-day-old, full-term baby was admitted to the hospital with a one-day history of fever up to 38.8 degrees c. on admission the infant had a temperature of 39.2 degrees c, pulse of 140 beats/min, and a respiratory rate of 32 breaths/min. except for a slightly bulging fontanelle, the rest of the physical examination was within normal limits. complete blood count revealed a white blood cell (wbc) count of 12.5 x 10(9)/l, with 0.66 polymorphonuclear cells, 0.10 bands, 0.18 lymphocytes, and 0.06 monocytes. a stat lumbar puncture showed 10 wbcs per high-power field with gram-negative rods. empiric therapy with ampicillin 225 mg q12h and gentamicin 11 mg q8h was started. both antibiotics were discontinued after culture and sensitivity results were positive for c. freundii in the blood and spinal fluid. the patient was successfully treated with nine days of ceftriaxone 250 mg q12h.
quantification of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging: in vitro investigations. the accuracy of quantifying the degree of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging (7.5-mhz, linear array system) was determined in an experimental study carried out on six concentric and five eccentric model stenoses (cross-sectional area reduction, 13.4%-93.8%). the measurements were made with use of pulsatile flow at four different flow rates (70.8-339.0 ml/min). the degree of stenosis was calculated from the ratio of prestenotic to intrastenotic flow velocity. the most exact measurement of the degree of stenosis could be achieved with doppler spectral analysis by determining the maximum peak systolic velocity (r = .994, y = 0.98x - 3.2). with the velocity values derived only from the color-coded image, it was also possible to find the most exact degree of stenosis (r = .995, y = 0.99x - 2.9). for quantification of stenosis, pre- and intrastenotic doppler spectral analysis is no longer necessary if the stenosis can be imaged sufficiently with color doppler.
percutaneous biliary drainage for high obstruction. pbd is the preferred route of palliative drainage for patients with high biliary obstruction. the frequency of bifurcational obstruction in this setting requires familiarity with drainages from both the right and the left transhepatic approach. the preferred right transhepatic approach is fluoroscopically guided; on the left, ultrasonography is the guidance of choice. large caliber drainage catheters are required, and dilatation of the necessary transhepatic tracts is extremely painful unless adequate inhalation anesthesia or, preferably, epidural anesthesia, is provided. long-term biliary drainage requires a choice between internal-external external drainage catheters and endoprostheses that is made by considering the patient's life expectancy and his or her adjustment to a stent extending to the outside. the feasibility of corrective procedures if an internal-external drainage catheter or an endoprosthesis becomes blocked needs to be considered before definitive placement. the interventional radiologist becomes intimately involved in the follow-up care of patients and frequently has to direct appropriate patient evaluation. familiarity with antibiotic regimens is important.
smoking cessation in chronic reinke's oedema. in evaluating the long term results of surgical treatment of reinke's oedema, there has been found to be a high incidence of recurrence. the recurrence rate is significantly lower amongst those patients who gave up smoking after treatment. a group of patients with chronic reinke's oedema were followed for six months. maximum efforts were made to help the patients to stop smoking. twenty-nine patients entered the study, but only eight of them (28 per cent) refrained from smoking; all were women (39-70 years) and all experienced reduced discomfort, although none of the voices were restored to normal. diffuse laryngitis disappeared completely, but the oedema did not disappear entirely in any patient. before treatment of chronic reinke's oedema patients must be well advised and informed, and if surgery is decided upon, they must be urged most strongly to stop smoking, if they wish to enhance the possibility of satisfactory long-term results.
discordant nephron function. a pathogenic factor in hypertension and its vascular complications of stroke and heart attack. morphologic evidence from patients with essential hypertension and goldblatt-type hypertension reveals a subpopulation of narrowed afferent arterioles to ischemic nephrons. these ischemic nephrons, responding individually to their perception of underperfusion, secrete renin. in response, the normal nephrons are in adaptive natriuresis and have appropriately shut off their renin production. nevertheless, they are affected adversely by the discordant renin-angiotensin ii arising from the ischemic nephrons' presence, which exerts an unwanted sodium-retaining effect on the proximal tubules of the adapting nephrons. the end result is elevated blood pressure from too much sodium retention for the level of renin activity, that is, an abnormal renin-sodium product. thus, "normal" renin levels in a hypertensive individual are abnormal because healthy kidneys shut off renin production entirely when blood pressure rises. this construction explains why angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition often corrects "normal" renin hypertension. although such hypertension may be partly sodium-mediated as a consequence of inappropriate sodium retention by the normal and ischemic nephrons, the source of the problem lies in the renin production from ischemic nephrons. the correct treatment, then, is an antirenin therapy designed to block renin synthesis or secretion or angiotensin ii formation or action. in view of modern studies suggesting that renin excesses also correlate with an increased risk of heart attack and stroke, the role of antirenin and antiangiotensin agents in treatment assumes additional relevance.
childhood blindness in peru. a survey of childhood blindness in peruvian children was done. although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions, measles accounted for almost 10% of blindness. with widespread measles immunization, this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced.
dialysis-induced alterations in left ventricular filling: mechanisms and clinical significance. quantitative two-dimensional (2-d) and doppler echocardiography were used to determine whether hemodialysis results in alterations in left ventricular (lv) diastolic filling that might contribute to dialysis-induced hypotension, as well as to assess whether any hemodynamic variables or indices of diastolic filling might be used to identify which patients were at the greatest risk of becoming hemodynamically unstable during dialysis. sixteen male patients undergoing routine maintenance hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease were prospectively studied before and after hemodialysis. following hemodialysis there was a significant prolongation (p less than 0.05) in lv isovolumetric relaxation time (ivrt), as well as a significant reduction in the rate and extent of early rapid ventricular filling (p less than 0.005); in contrast, late atrial-assisted filling did not change significantly. a multiple stepwise linear regression analysis of predialysis hemodynamic parameters and noninvasive indices of lv filling showed that there was a significant independent inverse relationship between the frequency of dialysis-related hypotensive episodes and the duration of early lv filling (r = -0.81; p less than 0.001). these results suggest that hemodialysis results in discrete alterations in early lv filling, with no significant compensatory increase in late atrial-assisted ventricular filling. further, patients with the shortest early lv filling times appeared to have the greatest predilection for becoming hemodynamically unstable during dialysis.
visual evoked potentials and visual prognosis following perinatal asphyxia. twenty-five children born at term with perinatal asphyxia were studied at age 2.5 to 4.5 years to evaluate visual function and to determine the prognostic value of postnatal assessments of visual outcome. postnatal assessments included several visual evoked potentials and electroretinograms in the first week of life. follow-up assessments included flash and pattern visual evoked potentials, visual evoked potential threshold measurements, and clinical eye examinations. nineteen children had normal visual function, three were visually impaired, and three remained blind. a strong association was found between normal, abnormal, or absent visual evoked potentials in the early postnatal period and long-term visual outcome (p less than .0001). other perinatal indicators of asphyxia, including neurologic status, apgar scores, and arterial ph values, were poor predictors of visual outcome. the risk of visual impairment was limited to those survivors with neurodevelopmental deficits.
neuroendocrine carcinoid tumours of the breast: a variant of carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation. carcinoid tumours most frequently develop in the gastrointestinal tract but have been described in many organs of the body. in 1977 the first cases were reported in the mamma, followed by descriptions of argyrophilic carcinoid-like, neuroendocrine mammary tumours by many investigators who performed immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examinations. the existence of true carcinoids in the mamma is still a controversial issue. eight mammary neoplasms with monomorphous cytonuclear features, five of the small cell carcinoid-like variety and three composed of larger cells, were examined by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination. we believe this kind of tumours are ductal or lobular carcinomas with focal or more extensive neuroendocrine features and are the result of a dual differentiation of neoplastic precursor stem cells along epithelial and endocrine lines. consequently, we consider that treatment of such cases should not be different from that of the ordinary type of mammary carcinomas.
a review of techniques employed to estimate the number of motor units in a muscle. being the smallest functional units under neural control, motor units play an integral role in muscle physiology. however, at the present time, there does not exist any widely accepted technique for quantifying or estimating the number of motor units in a muscle. specifically, the existing techniques are the increment-counting technique, a technique based on spike-triggered averaging, and a macro-emg based technique which vary in invasiveness from noninvasive to highly invasive, respectively. we discuss each of these techniques, along with their associated shortcomings, in detail.
limitations of magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound-directed (duplex) scanning in the diagnosis of subclavian vein thrombosis. to investigate the potential role of magnetic resonance imaging and duplex scanning in the diagnosis of catheter-induced subclavian vein thrombosis, we correlated the results of 43 arm phlebograms with duplex scans; 28 of these phlebograms were also correlated with magnetic resonance imaging scans of the thoracic veins. eighteen of the 43 phlebograms were normal, and all had normal magnetic resonance imaging and duplex studies. eleven subclavian veins were totally occluded on phlebography; all had duplex scans, and five were also scanned with magnetic resonance imaging. duplex scans detected 6 of 11 occlusions, whereas magnetic resonance imaging detected 4 of the 5 occlusions scanned. the five occlusions that were not detected by either magnetic resonance imaging or duplex scans were short segmental occlusions of the medial one third of the left subclavian vein. of 14 nonocclusive thrombi seen on phlebography, duplex scans correctly identified 8. magnetic resonance imaging was done on eight nonocclusive thrombi but identified only two. all abnormal findings on duplex scanning and magnetic resonance imaging were confirmed by phlebography. short occlusions of the proximal portion of the left subclavian vein were often undetected by duplex scanning but occasionally seen with magnetic resonance imaging. neither modality was sensitive to the presence of nonocclusive mural thrombi. magnetic resonance imaging is highly reliable in ruling out the presence of a thrombotic process in the subclavian vein, but it may on occasion fail to detect the presence of subclavian thrombi. for this reason, in cases with suspected subclavian vein thrombosis magnetic resonance imaging cannot be used as the only diagnostic modality.
a hospital-based study of acute viral infections of the respiratory tract in thai children, with emphasis on laboratory diagnosis. the hospital-based study described here examined the viruses found in 738 children less than 5 years old who presented at ramathibodi hospital, bangkok, thailand, from january 1986 to december 1987 with acute respiratory tract infections. three methods for detection of viral infection are compared: direct examination of epithelial cells of the respiratory tract with the use of fluorescent antibody staining, isolation of virus, and measurement of antibody in acute- and convalescent-phase sera. viral infections were found in 44.7% of the study population. diagnosis by the examination of epithelial cells with the fluorescent antibody staining procedure was found to have several deficiencies; however, this technique was the most sensitive for diagnosis of infection due to respiratory syncytial virus. isolation of virus was the best method for identification of adenoviruses, parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses, and influenza b virus. problems associated with serodiagnosis included failure to obtain specimens of convalescent-phase blood in 24.5% of cases and insensitivity of serodiagnosis for young children except for the identification of antibody to influenza a virus. the combination of all three tests yielded the best rate of detection of virus.
muscle oxidative capacity and work performance after training under local leg ischemia. healthy young men executed supine one-legged cycle training four times per week for 4 wk with legs and the cycle ergometer inside a pressure chamber, the opening of which was sealed by a rubber membrane at the level of the crotch. each training session started by training one leg under ischemic conditions induced by increased chamber pressure (50 mmhg) at the highest intensity tolerable for 45 min. then the other leg was trained with the same power profile but normal atmospheric chamber pressure. before and after the training period, both legs executed one-legged exercise tests under both normal and increased chamber pressure and muscle biopsies were taken from the vastus lateralis. ischemic training increased performance more than normal training, the difference being greater for exercise executed under ischemic conditions. the difference in performance increase between the legs was paralleled by a greater muscle citrate synthase activity in the ischemically than in the normally trained leg.
association between post-dexamethasone cortisol level and blood pressure in depressed inpatients. we examined the clinical data for 230 depressed inpatients who had completed a dexamethasone suppression test (dst) to determine whether those with an elevated post-dst serum cortisol level exhibited any of the classic physiological stigmata of cushing's syndrome. hypertension was significantly more frequent among dst nonsuppressors (21.2%) than among normal suppressors (11.3%). percent blood lymphocyte count was significantly lower among nonsuppressors. confounders such as gender, age, body weight, and use of antihypertensives did not account for the findings. implications for morbidity and mortality rates among patients with affective disorder are discussed.
permanent venous access via subcutaneous infusion port in severe asthma. a subcutaneous infusion port was implanted in a 34-year-old patient with frequent and severe asthma attacks to ensure prompt and reliable venous access. difficulties with peripheral venous access were possible cofactors necessitating mechanical ventilation on two occasions before this implantation. the method described is simple and seems useful for asthmatics in need of frequent parenteral medication.
analysis and predictors of pulmonary vascular resistance after cardiac transplantation. elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is a known risk factor for early death from acute right ventricular failure after orthotopic cardiac transplantation. patients in whom the elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is due primarily to increased left atrial pressure ("reactive") frequently have normalization of resistance after transplantation, but few studies have detailed the time course and magnitude of these changes. to analyze the response of pulmonary vascular resistance to cardiac transplantation, we analyzed data from 4353 right heart catheterizations on all 182 patients undergoing cardiac transplantation between 1981 and jan. 1, 1990. before transplantation 18% of patients had a pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 4 wu, 16% had a pulmonary artery systolic pressure greater than 60 mm hg, and 16% had a transpulmonary gradient greater than 14 mm hg. in the overall group of patients, pulmonary vascular resistance (mean value 2.63 wu), transpulmonary gradient (mean value 9.9 mm hg), and pulmonary artery systolic pressure (mean value 48.0 mm hg) were normalized within 1 week of cardiac transplantation. in patients with a high preoperative pulmonary vascular resistance (greater than or equal to 4 wu), the resistance fell promptly within 1 week of transplantation but continued to be slightly elevated throughout the period of follow-up. by multiple regression analysis, pulmonary vascular resistance at 1 week and 1 year after transplantation was significantly correlated with the pretransplantation resistance. pulmonary vascular resistance anytime after transplantation was related to preoperative resistance, body surface area, and pulmonary artery diastolic pressure. inferences: (1) as a group, cardiac transplant recipients have a normal pulmonary vascular resistance, transpulmonary gradient, and pulmonary artery systolic pressure within 1 week after transplantation with little change thereafter for at least several years. (2) patients with reversible elevation of pulmonary vascular resistance before cardiac transplantation typically have a reactive and a fixed component. cardiac transplantation relieves the reactive but not the fixed component. as a result, pulmonary vascular resistance early (within 1 week) and late after transplantation will have fallen but not completely normalized.
fibromatous epulis in dogs and peripheral odontogenic fibroma in human beings: two equivalent lesions. this article compares the clinical and histopathologic features of the peripheral odontogenic fibroma in human beings and the fibromatous epulis in dogs. they are apparently equivalent lesions. both are odontogenic tumors of limited growth potential that do not recur if adequately excised; both occur in middle and late adulthood of the species concerned. the one difference is that the peripheral odontogenic fibroma is a rare condition, whereas the canine fibromatous epulis is common.
visual impairment in a rural appalachian community. prevalence and causes. a population-based survey of 1136 subjects aged 40 years and older was conducted in a rural valley of kentucky to determine the nature and extent of visual disability in an underserved area of rural america. data on corrected visual acuity and ocular history, along with demographic, socioeconomic, and health care utilization parameters, were gathered. those subjects with an acuity below 20/60 in either eye underwent a comprehensive ophthalmologic examination. the prevalence of binocular blindness (acuity worse than 20/400 in the better eye) was 0.44% and of monocular blindness (acuity worse than 20/400 in one eye) was 3.3%, approximately twice the national rates. the chief cause of bilateral visual impairment was macular degeneration among men and cataract among women. cataract, trauma, and amblyopia were the major causes of monocular visual impairment in both sexes. risk factor analysis revealed younger age, higher education, active employment, access to a health care facility, and comprehensive health insurance coverage to be inversely associated with visual impairment.
rapid admixture blood warming: technical advances. the technique of rapid admixture blood warming of cold erythrocyte units is designed to warm erythrocyte units rapidly (less than 30 sec) while simultaneously providing saline for dilution. however, questions have been raised about the recommended use of a standard 250-ml bolus of 70 degrees c admixture saline, the uniformity and speed of blood unit warming, the difficulties inherent in keeping saline bags at 70 degrees c, and the safety of the methodology. to answer these questions, a series of tests were performed and modifications of the technique were introduced. the mean weight of 1000 successive units of erythrocytes for adult infusion was 305 g (range 220 to 410). the maximum temperature was 44 degrees c, using an internal temperature probe (1-cm temperature gradations; 2-sec recording intervals) when the smallest unit was admixed with a 250 ml 70 degrees c saline bolus; the largest unit had a minimum temperature of 30 degrees c. plasma hgb, osmotic fragility, and k of the minimum size erythrocyte unit showed no significant deviation from its control. both thermographic photographs and the internal temperature recordings of the erythrocyte units demonstrated that solely due to fluid turbulence, uniform mixing occurs within approximately 30 sec of beginning the admixture process. inverting the blood units caused a thermal layering of fluids and an unacceptable maximum blood temperature of 50 degrees c. there was no difference between the mixing time or efficacy in the presence of standard or large-bore iv tubing or additional in-line filters. volumes of the 250-ml saline bags for admixture decreased markedly with deviations in electrolyte composition after greater than 2 wk at 70 degrees c.
proximal gastric vagotomy: follow-up at 10-20 years. from august 1969 to december 1989, 600 patients had elective proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulceration with an operative mortality of 0.2 per cent. of these, 372 patients had surgery over 10 years ago. three hundred and forty-two patients survived for more than 10 years and, in a prospective study, 305 were reviewed, forming the basis of this 10-20-year follow-up report. forty-six (15 per cent) have had recurrent ulceration; 80 per cent of these developed symptoms within 5 years and no patient has had recurrence after 13 years. although 29 patients required reoperation for recurrent ulceration, the current patient satisfaction rate for visick grades i and ii is 92 per cent. only two patients required reoperation because of gastric stasis. it is concluded that proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe and satisfactory first choice operation for duodenal ulceration.
third-trimester fetal death in triplet pregnancies. during the last decade, 89 sets of triplets were born in denmark with a gestational age of more than 25 completed weeks. fifteen pregnancies (16.9%) were complicated by fetal death in the third trimester, with a total of 17 intrauterine deaths. six neonatal deaths occurred, leaving 22 survivors among these 15 patients. four triplet gestations were diagnosed as twins until delivery. eight women conceived spontaneously, two gestations followed assisted fertilization and embryo transfer, and five women had had various forms of ovulation stimulation. the mean maternal age was 27.8 years (range 17-38). seven women were parous and eight wer nulliparous. maternal complications included hydramnios (three), preeclampsia/hypertension (three), and anemia (nine). all women delivered preterm. of the 11 gestations diagnosed as triplets, fetal death was diagnosed at 32.2 +/- 2.9 weeks (mean +/- sd) and delivery occurred at 32.6 +/- 3.0 weeks. nine of 11 women had cesarean deliveries. continuation of pregnancy after fetal death could be considered in only three subjects. in eight women, obstetric reasons required immediate delivery. fetal death was associated with monochorionic or dichorionic placentation, and growth retardation was a frequent complication before fetal death. anencephaly of one fetus, umbilical cord problems in two, and severe hydrops in two were the only obvious causes of fetal death. fetal death should not be the sole indication for delivery. in cases with severe prematurity and a stable intrauterine situation, frequent assessments of fetal well-being are recommended, with prompt delivery when indicated.
role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation in persons less than 65 years of age. the role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation (af) was assessed in a consecutive series of 98 patients (75 men) aged less than 65 years. in addition to etiologic assessment using clinical and laboratory methods and echocardiography, the patients' drinking habits were evaluated by recording the amount of alcohol used during the week preceding af, by responses to the cage (cut, annoying, guilt, eye; see below) questionnaire (a screening test for alcohol abuse) and by selected laboratory tests. two groups of control subjects were studied: 98 sex- and age-matched patients admitted to the emergency ward for acute illnesses, and 50 subjects selected randomly from the local out-of-hospital population. the mean alcohol consumption among men during the study week was 186 g (median 45 g; range 0 to 2,100 g) among patients, whereas among male hospital and population control subjects it was 86 g (30 g; 0 to 1,050 g) and 94 g (35 g; 0 to 630 g), respectively. when the weekly alcohol consumption was analyzed in 3 categories (0; 1 to 210 g; greater than 210 g), there was a significant difference between af cases and hospital control patients (p = 0.03), but not between af cases and population control subjects. multivariate analysis of data of af cases and population control subjects showed that alcohol intake and a positive response to 1 or more of the cage questions were independently related to af in men. other independent risk factors were the presence of heart disease, low serum potassium and lack of sleep or experience of excess psychologic stress, or both.
carbamazepine overdose: a prospective study of serum levels and toxicity. a cooperative prospective study of consecutive cases of carbamazepine overdose was conducted to determine if serum levels were predictive of toxicity and if risk factors such as age, chronic exposure, or previous disorder or cardiovascular disease could be used as prognostic indicators. seventy-three consecutive cases were collected from two regional certified poison control centers from january 1989 to august 1989. there were 25 exposures in children less than 6 yrs., 11 exposures in adolescents, and 37 exposures in adults. ten adult cases and one adolescent case were excluded from the study due to the presence of coingestants or inadequate information. peak measured serum levels ranged from 0.3 to 56 mcg/ml. using the presence of coma, seizure activity or respiratory depression requiring mechanical ventilation as measures of toxicity, we found poor correlation between rising serum levels of carbamazepine and toxicity. increased serum levels of carbamazepine did appear to correlate with increased hospital stay, but not with icu stay. history of a seizure disorder appears to pose increased risk of a seizure in carbamazepine overdose. in this series chronic exposure to carbamazepine did not appear to increase the risk of coma or respiratory depression for a given toxic serum level and may add some protective effect. serum levels below 40 mcg/ml do not appear to accurately predict the severity of toxicity. cardiac conduction defects were rare (one child). anticholinergic findings, as evidence by decreased bowel motility and sinus tachycardia were common. previous cardiovascular disease and age did not appear to be important prognostic indicators.
long-term efficacy of primary laser trabeculoplasty. sixty glaucomatous eyes of 60 patients treated with laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy were reviewed retrospectively. there were 42 eyes with capsular glaucoma and 18 with simple glaucoma. the mean prelaser intraocular pressure (iop) was 35.2 (sd = 6.5) mmhg. success was defined as iop less than or equal to 22 mmhg without medication. the probability of success was 0.73 at 1 year, 0.66 at 2 years, 0.57 at 3 years, and 0.50 at 4 years. three eyes experienced progressive visual field loss or disc damage in spite of an intraocular pressure below 22 mmhg without medication. high prelaser pressure and the severity of the visual field defects were significant predictors of treatment failure.
retinal vasculitis as a complication of rheumatoid arthritis. two middle-aged women developed retinal vasculitis in the moderately active phase of classical rheumatoid arthritis. fluorescein angiography disclosed diffuse leakage from the retinal capillaries and cystoid macular edema, which subsided in response to oral steroid. they did not show any clinical signs of vasculitis in other parts of the body. retinal vasculitis should be included in the list of complications observed in rheumatoid arthritis.
platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-subunit gene (pdgfra) is deleted in the mouse patch (ph) mutation. platelet-derived growth factor receptors are composed of two subunits (alpha and beta) that associate with one another to form three functionally active dimeric receptor species. the two subunits are encoded by separate loci in humans and other species. in this study, we used conventional interspecific backcross mapping and an analysis of a deletional mutation to establish close linkage between the alpha-subunit gene (pdgfra) and the dominant spotting (w) locus on mouse chromosome 5. further, by analyzing the restriction fragment length polymorphisms in interspecific f1 hybrids, we were able to demonstrate that the closely associated patch (ph) locus carries a deletion in pdgfra. this observation was confirmed by both dna and rna analysis of 10.5-day fetuses produced from crosses between ph heterozygotes. out of 16 fetuses analyzed, pdgfra genomic sequences were absent and no mrna for the receptor was detected in 6 fetuses that were developmentally abnormal (the presumptive ph homozygotes). we also determined that the deletion associated with the ph mutation does not extend into the coding sequences of the adjacent kit gene, by analysis of the genomic dna from both the interspecific f1 hybrids and the presumptive ph homozygotes. the absence of pdgfra genomic sequences and the lack of detectable message associated with the ph mutation should make this mutant a valuable asset for understanding the role of the receptor alpha subunit during mammalian development.
modified technique of pringle's maneuver in resection of the liver. crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes. pringle's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well. therefore, we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus. this vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver.
nuclear shape as a prognostic discriminant in colorectal carcinoma. in search for a more reliable prognostic discriminant, a retrospective analysis of 100 cases of colorectal carcinoma having undergone curative resection and followed for at least 5 years were assessed by nuclear morphometry. each case was staged according to the dukes' classification as well as graded histologically. for all patients in this series, the perimeter, area, and nuclear shape factor of 50 interphase nuclei were determined for each carcinoma. the information was obtained through the use of an image analysis system by tracing the nuclear profiles (magnification 1000x) as digitized on a video screen. the nuclear shape factor was defined as the degree of circularity of the nucleus, a perfect circle recorded as 1.0. a nuclear shape factor greater than 0.84 was associated with poor outcome. multiple regression models showed that the single nuclear parameter of the shape factor was the most highly significant predictor of survival (p less than 0.0001). this variable remained highly significant even when corrected for sex, age, histologic grade, and dukes' classification. these findings indicate that a nuclear shape factor greater than or equal to 0.84 as determined by nuclear morphometry is an independent morphometric nuclear variable of great importance in the prognosis of large bowel carcinoma.
duplex doppler examination of a perinephric abscess in a renal transplant. perinephric abscess has no characteristic ultrasonic appearance or location. differentiation from urinoma, lymphocele, or hematoma depends on clinical and laboratory findings. therapy consists of percutaneous catheter drainage, surgical drainage, and antibiotic therapy. acute rejection is the most common cause of decreased diastolic flow during the immediate postoperative period. acute tubular necrosis does not usually alter blood flow unless it is severe. duplex doppler ultrasonic assessment of the renal transplant during the immediate postoperative period may provide a valuable baseline for comparison if complications develop. baseline and follow-up ultrasonography to evaluate diastolic flow can help determine whether a posttransplant patient should receive emergency or conservative therapy for complications.
hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma. foramen magnum tumours are rare. they may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions. we report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness, never previously described in the literature. voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma.
soluble interleukin-2 receptor in crohn's disease: relation of serum concentrations to disease activity. serum concentrations of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sil-2r) were measured as a marker of immune activation in a group of 30 patients with crohn's disease. sil-2r concentrations were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay during periods of active and inactive disease and correlated with standard parameters of disease activity. serum concentrations of sil-2r were significantly raised in patients with active crohn's disease compared with patients with inactive disease (p less than 0.001) and control subjects. there was a significant correlation between serum sil-2r concentrations and disease activity as assessed by the harvey-bradshaw index (r = 0.42, p less than 0.01), platelet numbers (r = 0.49, p less than 0.01), and orosomucoid (r = 0.47, p less than 0.01), alpha 1 antitrypsin (r = 0.44, p less than 0.01), and c reactive protein concentrations (r = 0.48, p less than 0.001) but not with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate. measurement of serum sil-2r concentration is a simple and useful laboratory means of assessing disease activity. raised concentrations in patients with active crohn's disease is further evidence for in vivo immune activation occurring in this disease.
reactivity of eccentric and concentric coronary stenoses in patients with chronic stable angina. dynamic coronary stenoses may be the cause of a variable angina threshold and rest angina in patients with chronic stable angina. it has been suggested that eccentric but not concentric coronary artery stenoses have the potential for dynamic changes of caliber in response to vasoactive stimuli. the vasomotor response of eccentric (asymmetric narrowing) and concentric (symmetric narrowing) coronary stenoses to ergonovine (20 micrograms intracoronary or 300 micrograms intravenous) and isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg intracoronary) was studied in 51 patients with chronic stable angina. diameter of reference segments (angiographically normal segments proximal to the stenoses) and that of eccentric (n = 30) and concentric (n = 35) coronary stenoses that ranged from 50% to 90% luminal diameter reduction were measured by computerized quantitative angiography before and after ergonovine and isosorbide dinitrate. ergonovine reduced stenosis diameter (by greater than or equal to 10%) in 80% of eccentric stenoses and 42% of concentric stenoses (p less than 0.05). mean (+/- sem) diameter reduction with ergonovine was 19 +/- 3% and 9.5 +/- 2% for eccentric and concentric stenoses, respectively (p less than 0.05). isosorbide dinitrate increased coronary diameter (by greater than or equal to 10%) in 70% of eccentric and 43% of concentric stenoses (p less than 0.05). mean diameter of eccentric stenoses increased from 1.15 +/- 0.05 to 1.35 +/- 0.06 mm after nitrate (18.6 +/- 2.5%), whereas diameter of concentric stenoses increased from 1.05 +/- 0.05 to 1.14 +/- 0.05 mm (10 +/- 2.5%) (p less than 0.05). average dilation of reference segments with administration of isosorbide dinitrate and constriction with ergonovine were not significantly different in patients with concentric and eccentric stenoses.
extragonadal and poor risk nonseminomatous germ cell tumors. survival and prognostic features. one hundred forty-nine patients with poor risk nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (nsgct) treated between 1975 and 1988 were studied. patients were considered poor risk if they had an extragonadal primary site or testicular nsgct with low predicted probability of achieving a complete response (cr). primary sites were the testis (99 patients), retroperitoneum (18 patients), and mediastinum (32 patients). patients with mediastinal nsgct had lower human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) (p less than 0.0001) and lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) levels (p less than 0.0001), and more frequent yolk sac elements (p = 0.002). cr rates were 38% for mediastinal, 61% for retroperitoneal, and 38% for testicular primary sites. mediastinal nsgct patients more frequently required resection of residual malignancy to attain a cr (6 of 12). mediastinal nsgct had the worst event-free survival (p = 0.02). cox regression analysis identified brain or liver metastases as the most important predictor of event-free survival in poor risk patients. retroperitoneal nsgct often have a poor outcome due to advanced presentation, but the likelihood of a cr to therapy can be predicted using criteria applicable to testicular primary tumors. therefore, not all retroperitoneal nsgct are poor risk, and retroperitoneal tumors are probably of occult testicular origin. mediastinal nsgct have distinct clinical and pathologic features, do not respond as well to chemotherapy, relapse more frequently, and have the worst survival. the likelihood of a cr cannot be predicted using criteria developed for primary testicular tumors, suggesting that mediastinal primary nsgct is a distinct clinical entity.
mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. the mitochondrial diseases present with great heterogeneity. they are often multisystemic and vary considerably in age at onset, distribution of weakness, severity, and course. only nonthyroidal hypermetabolism has a distinctive clinical presentation. therefore, attempts at classification have generated some controversy. this article discusses the general classification that takes into account genetic and biochemical features, which has resulted from the fast pace of biochemical and molecular genetic investigations.
a prospective clinical evaluation of autogenous vein grafts used as a nerve conduit for distal sensory nerve defects of 3 cm or less. the purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of autogenous vein grafts as nerve grafts (avnc) for bridging of small peripheral sensory nerve gaps as compared with direct repair and with conventional nerve grafting techniques (ang). patients with painful neuroma or segmental nerve injury of 3 cm were chosen as the test group. those amenable to direct repair were classified as controls. between 1982 to 1988, a total of 22 patients were enrolled in this study. a total of 34 nerves were repaired, 15 with a venous nerve conduit, 4 with a sural nerve graft, and 15 with direct repair. significant symptom relief and satisfactory sensory function return were uniformly observed. the two-point discrimination measurements indicated superiority of direct repair and probably of conventional nerve grafting. however, the universally favorable patient acceptance and the return of measurable two-point discrimination indicates the effectiveness of autogenous vein grafts as nerve conduits when selectively applied to bridge a small nerve gap (less than or equal to 3 cm) on nonessential peripheral sensory nerves.
obstruction of mechanical heart valve prostheses: clinical aspects and surgical management. one hundred patients (32 male) aged 5 months to 82 years (median 32 years) underwent 106 surgical procedures for 112 mechanical prosthetic valves obstructed by a thrombus (n = 61) or pannus (n = 7), or both (n = 44), between january 1, 1980 and december 31, 1989. the position of the obstructed prosthesis was aortic in 51 patients (48%), mitral in 49 (46%) and both aortic and mitral in 6 (6%). the types of obstructed prosthetic valves were bjork-shiley (n = 51), st. jude (n = 41) and medtronic-hall (n = 20). the time interval between valve replacement and obstruction ranged from 6 weeks to 13 years (median 4 years). of 63% of patients in whom coagulation variables were available at the time of obstruction, 70% were receiving inadequate anticoagulant therapy. in 63% of the procedures the patient was in new york heart association functional class iv. two patients underwent preoperative thrombolysis with incomplete results. operative procedures included valve replacement (n = 81), valve declotting and excision of pannus (n = 23) and aortic valve replacement and mitral valve declotting (n = 2). the early mortality rate was 12.3% (13 patients), and there was no difference between surgery for mitral prostheses (12.2%) versus aortic prostheses (13.7%). the perioperative mortality rate was 17.5% (11 of 63 patients) in patients in functional class iv and 4.7% (2 of 43 patients) in those in functional classes i to iii (p less than 0.05). for valve replacement, the mortality rate was 12% (10 of 81 patients) and for declotting of the prosthesis 13% (3 of 23 patients).
three-year outcomes for maintenance therapies in recurrent depression. we conducted a randomized 3-year maintenance trial in 128 patients with recurrent depression who had responded to combined short-term and continuation treatment with imipramine hydrochloride and interpersonal psychotherapy. a five-cell design was used to determine whether a maintenance form of interpersonal psychotherapy alone or in combination with medication could play a significant role in the prevention of recurrence. a second question was whether maintaining antidepressant medication at the dosage used to treat the acute episode rather than decreasing to a "maintenance" dosage would provide prophylaxis superior to that observed in earlier trials in which a maintenance dosage strategy was employed. survival analysis demonstrated a highly significant prophylactic effect for active imipramine hydrochloride maintained at an average dose of 200 mg and a modest prophylactic effect for monthly interpersonal psychotherapy. we conclude that active imipramine hydrochloride maintained at an average dose of 200 mg is an effective means of preventing recurrence and that monthly interpersonal psychotherapy serves to lengthen the time between episodes in patients not receiving active medication.
simplified technique for control of femoral arterial bleeding after coronary angioplasty. a method of achieving arterial control by inserting an embolectomy catheter through the femoral introducer sheath in the patient with femoral arterial bleeding after ptca is described herein. this approach allows quick control with less dissection and negligible blood loss.
beneficial effect of upper thoracic epidural anesthesia in experimental hemorrhagic shock in dogs: influence of circulating catecholamines. the question as to whether reduction of plasma catecholamine concentration contributes to the beneficial effects of upper thoracic epidural anesthesia on survival during hemorrhagic shock was examined. twenty-six dogs were anesthetized with halothane and nitrous oxide, and blood was withdrawn to reduce the mean arterial blood pressure (map) to 40 mmhg. the 12 dogs in group a received both upper thoracic epidural anesthesia before the hemorrhage and intravenous infusion of epinephrine (450 ng.kg-1.min-1) and norepinephrine (150 ng.kg-1.min-1) during hemorrhage. the 14 dogs in group b received none of these. at 20 min after the start of the bleeding, plasma catecholamine concentrations were increased in both groups more than ten-fold. there were no significant intergroup differences with respect to these concentrations at any point during the experimental period. during the 100-min period of hemorrhage, 1 of the 12 animals in group a and 10 of the 14 in group b died. a significant difference in survival was seen between the two groups over the 100-min hypotensive period (p less than 0.01 by the generalized wilcoxon test). these results suggest that the survival benefit of upper thoracic epidural anesthesia cannot be explained simply by differences in the level of catecholamines in the plasma, and that perhaps differences in the level of catecholamines at the nerve endings or other factors may be more important.
excimer laser angioplasty during aortocoronary bypass grafting. laser coronary angioplasty using the 308-nm excimer laser was successfully performed intraoperatively during coronary artery bypass grafting. it achieved a reduction of the left anterior descending artery stenosis from 99% to 25% as seen on angioscopy, without evidence of vascular perforation or intimal disruption. the excimer laser offers the opportunity for intraoperative endovascular remodeling and recanalization and has a potential role as an adjunct to existing standard coronary artery bypass grafting protocol.
relationship between blood plasma prostaglandin e2 and liver and lung metastases in colorectal cancer. the relationship of prostaglandin e2, of which a large amount is produced in various neoplasms, and hematogenous distant metastases was investigated in a total of 44 colorectal cancer patients because of its varied pathophysiologic potentials. the authors found significantly high levels of pge2 in local venous blood draining the carcinoma and in peripheral blood in cases with liver or lung metastasis, as well as a significantly large amount of pge2 production in the carcinoma tissue. the results suggest that increased local blood pge2 could enhance the metastasis formation, and increased peripheral blood pge2 may be useful in the detection of such metastasis in colorectal cancer.
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy. three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging. the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement. the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence.
spontaneous renal rupture during pregnancy. spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis during pregnancy has been previously reported in 16 cases. in the case we describe in this report, the patient initially had right flank pain and nausea for 48 hours, which progressed to severe abdominal symptoms that necessitated exploratory laparotomy. cystoscopic placement of a ureteral stent relieved the obstruction and allowed spontaneous healing of the renal pelvis. dilatation of the urinary collecting system commonly occurs during pregnancy. spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis, however, is unusual and often associated with diseased kidneys. our case is the 8th one of spontaneous rupture of the renal collecting system with no identifiable underlying pathologic condition and the 17th case of spontaneous renal rupture overall.
in vitro and in vivo effects within the coronary sinus of nonarcing and arcing shocks using a new system of low-energy dc ablation. dc shocks within the coronary sinus have been abandoned because of the risk of cardiac rupture and tamponade. catheter ablation using dc energy to electrodes straddling the ostium of the coronary sinus, when used clinically, has been reported to result in cardiac tamponade in as many as 16% of patients. a new system of energy delivery maximizes voltage while decreasing the undesirable effects caused by barotrauma. this system includes 1) a low-energy ablation power supply with a brief time-constant capacitive discharge that delivers up to 40 j and 3,000 v and 2) a low-energy ablation catheter with a contoured distal electrode. we performed in vitro and in vivo studies of this new system and compared arcing shocks with nonarcing shocks. ablations were performed using unipolar distal shocks (d) and unipolar shocks to both electrodes made electrically common (p-d). in vitro studies were done in a large tank filled with physiological saline while recording voltage, current, and pressure. high-speed cinematography (32,000 frames/sec) of shocks of 10-40 j permitted detailed analysis of the vapor globe. anodal shocks of less than 20 j showed no arcing or only minimal vapor globe formation. for d and p-d anodal shocks of 40 j, the diameters of the vapor globe were 31 and 22 mm, respectively, corresponding to pressure recordings of 11 and 4.9 atm. the pressure rise lasted less than 50 mu sec. in vivo studies involved 18 dogs that received nonarcing shocks (one to six shocks of 15 j) and 18 dogs that received arcing shocks (one to three shocks of 40 j). each group was divided between d and p-d shocks; catheter ablation was performed at a mean +/- sem distance of 2.94 +/- 0.92 cm within the coronary sinus. all dogs tolerated the procedure without cardiac rupture or tamponade. when killed 2-4 days later, the dogs had edema and hyperemia or hemorrhage in the area of the coronary sinus. we compared the effects of multiple (three to six) nonarcing shocks with the effects of one to three arcing shocks. disruption or rupture of the coronary sinus within the epicardial fat space occurred in two of 12 dogs (17%) with multiple nonarcing shocks but in 13 of 18 dogs (72%) with arcing shocks (p less than 0.003). occlusion of the coronary sinus occurred in two of 12 dogs (17%) with multiple nonarcing shocks and in nine of 18 dogs (50%) with arcing shocks (p less than 0.06).(abstract truncated at 400 words).
anorectal sensory and motor function in neurogenic fecal incontinence. comparison between multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus. we measured anorectal sensory and motor function in 11 patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence, 11 continent patients with multiple sclerosis, 10 diabetics with fecal incontinence, and 12 healthy control subjects. the threshold volume at which patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence experienced rectal sensation was higher than that in healthy controls (42.7 +/- 6.2 ml vs. 13.3 +/- 2.8 ml; p less than 0.01) and was similar to that in incontinent diabetics (36.5 +/- 5.7 ml). patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinent diabetics also showed increased thresholds of phasic external sphincter contraction compared with controls (p less than 0.05). diabetics with incontinence had reduced resting and maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures compared with controls (p less than 0.05), whereas patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinence showed only decreased maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures (p less than 0.01 vs. controls and diabetics). incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis also required smaller volumes of rectal distention to inhibit internal sphincter tone compared with diabetics and controls (p less than 0.01). decreased maximal voluntary squeeze pressures were less severe in continent patients with multiple sclerosis than in incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis. we conclude that impaired function of the external anal sphincter and decreased volumes of rectal distention to inhibit the internal anal sphincter or both may contribute to fecal incontinence in multiple sclerosis. in addition, increased thresholds of conscious rectal sensation in some incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus may contribute to fecal incontinence by impairing the recognition of impending defecation.
characterization of glial involvement in proliferative diabetic retinopathy. we studied the relationship of glial cells and other supporting tissues associated with newly formed blood vessels in proliferative diabetic retinopathy. seventeen postmortem, freshly enucleated eyes from diabetic patients and 34 epiretinal and preretinal membranes removed during vitreous surgery for proliferative diabetic retinopathy were analyzed using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method for light microscopy and protein a/gold labeling of ultrathin cryosections for transmission electron microscopy in addition to routine transmission and scanning electron microscopy. we found that glial cells are commonly and characteristically found in elevated diabetic proliferations and present at the vitreous surface. the newly formed blood vessels, however, were not seen at the edge of elevated epiretinal and preretinal membranes in early and intermediate stages. these results suggest that glial cells may extend beyond the vascularized areas of the proliferative tissue. it is possible that glial cells and their extracellular matrix contribute to the framework leading to the development of new blood vessels.
clinical trials. a family physician's perspective. primary care specialists diagnose and manage a wide variety of problems. cancer is one relatively small part of the practice of these clinicians. patients with newly diagnosed cancer usually are referred to surgical specialists. primary care physicians often determine future events after surgical care. oncologists may or may not be consulted depending on tumor type and past experiences of the physician, patient, and patient's family. many primary care physicians think that chemotherapy regimens given empirically have little if any scientific evidence to support their use. side effects of cancer treatment regimens often cause suffering and profoundly effect quality of life. there is a lack of communication between oncologists and primary care physicians. dialogue between oncologists and primary care doctors may help solve communication problems. clinical trials help determine which treatments are effective. many clinical trials are conducted at the community hospital level. most primary care physicians support clinical trials once they know about them. education activities should be directed at promoting patient referral for participation in clinical trials.
the effect of screws and pegs on the initial fixation stability of an uncemented unicondylar knee replacement. two uncemented unicompartmental tibial components were examined for initial fixation stability. a conventional design that employed a single posteriorly angled peg was compared with a new design that was held in place by cancellous bone screws. the components were implanted into the medial condyles of 12 preserved human tibiae, and a cyclic load was first applied anteromedially and then posteromedially. the screwed implants failed at significantly higher loads (1634.8 +/- 121.6 n, mean +/- standard error of the mean) than the pegged implants (1103.3 +/- 152.0 n). on application of a 19.6-n preload, the screwed implants moved significantly less than the pegged implants. although the differences in micromotion and subsidence were not always significant, there were definite trends. the screwed implants had much lower levels of temporary and permanent displacement compared with the pegged implants for all load levels from the initial load of 245.2 n up to and including the failure load. when the motion that resulted from moving the load from the anterior position to the posterior position was examined, the screwed implant's average total motion was less than 10 microns compared with almost 135 microns for the pegged implant after the 245.2-n load cycle. for the cycle before failure, the screwed implant's average motion increased to less than 29 microns, whereas the pegged implant's average total motion was almost 354 microns. from this information it appears clear that screws provide better initial fixation stability than angled pegs for uncemented unicondylar tibial components.
improved postoperative course after spinous process segmental instrumentation of thoracolumbar fractures. this article compares the postoperative course of 40 patients who had harrington instrumentation with 40 patients who had harrington instrumentation and interspinous process segmental instrumentation of unstable thoracolumbar fractures and reviews the findings. the two groups of patients were otherwise homogeneous, and average operative time, total blood loss, and days to oral intake were similar for both groups of patients. on average, however, patients undergoing interspinous process segmental instrumentation were out of bed sooner (4.5 versus 7.7 days, p less than 0.0001), discharged sooner (32 versus 38 days, p less than 0.079), and brace-free earlier (2.1 versus 5.9 months, p less than 0.001) and had fewer fixation-related complications than did patients undergoing harrington instrumentation alone. comparison of average hospital costs documented a savings of $5,160 for the typical patient undergoing interspinous process segmental instrumentation.
low-dose sufentanil in major surgery. the purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of sufentanil 1 micrograms.kg-1 during n2o-o2 and intermittent isoflurane anaesthesia in major non-cardiac surgery. thirty-one patients (18 females, 13 males; mean age 47 yr), undergoing cholecystectomy received a 1 microgram.kg-1 bolus of sufentanil before the induction of anaesthesia with thiopentone. on average, three sufentanil increments were administered, to a total (bolus + maintenance) dose of 1.5 micrograms.kg-1. cardiovascular stability was not achieved in eleven patients who then were given isoflurane. the arterial pressure decreased after sufentanil (p less than 0.05), reaching a nadir (mean 108/65 mmhg, heart rate 63 bpm) at one minute post-incision. clinically important hypertension or hypotension did not occur in any patient. one patient, receiving beta-blocker therapy, required atropine to control bradycardia. postoperative respiratory depression did not occur in patients who received less than one micrograms.kg-1.hr-1 with the last increment being given more than 20 minutes before the end of anaesthesia. slight respiratory depression in the recovery room was reported in one patient, who had received a total of 1.3 micrograms.kg-1.hr-1 of sufentanil, and the last sufentanil increment 24 min before the end of surgery. the most frequently reported side-effects were nausea (35 per cent) and vomiting (23 per cent). induction, maintenance and recovery from anaesthesia were rated as "good" in 87, 87, and 74 per cent of the cases, respectively, and "satisfactory" in the remainder. we conclude that this technique is valuable to assure good protection of the cardiovascular system without undue respiratory depression during recovery.
ampullary tumor caused by metastatic renal cell carcinoma. in this paper we report the case of a renal cell carcinoma (rcc) metastatic to the ampullary region. the patient presented with severe anemia due to blood loss from the ampullary tumor 11 years after nephrectomy for the primary renal cancer. the diagnosis was established by means of endoscopy and biopsy.
epidemiologic perspectives on life-style modification and health promotion in cancer research. the clinical, patient-oriented focus of medicine and psychology is contrasted with the epidemiologic (public health) approach in assessing the role of life-style factors and health promotion in cancer research. the unifying host-agent-environment epidemiologic paradigm is applied to contemporary cancer prevention issues, principally smoking cessation and dietary modification, to demonstrate differences in inferences, prevention strategies, and research opportunities. an integration of population-based approaches with the dynamics of patient behavior and risks for cancer is especially salient when considering the role of psychosocial stress and personal and social resources. the social epidemiologic perspective, the study of the psychosocial determinants of physical health status, offers one approach for resolving the outlined differences in perspectives and is particularly relevant for understanding the etiology of life-style behaviors and how they might be altered.
tumor-associated neurological dysfunction prevented by lazaroids in rats. the efficacy of u-74006f and u-78517f in the treatment of blood-tumor barrier permeability and tumor-associated neurological dysfunction was evaluated in a brain-tumor model in rats. u-74006f is a 21-aminosteroid and u-78517f is a 2-methylamino chroman. rats with stereotactically implanted walker 256 tumors were treated with methylprednisolone, u-74006f, u-78517f, or vehicle (0.05 n hcl) on days 6 through 10 following implantation. neurological function and vascular permeability were assessed on day 10. methylprednisolone and u-74006f were equally effective at preventing neurological dysfunction compared to the control group (p less than 0.01); u-78517f was slightly less effective than u-74006f and methylprednisolone but was significantly better than vehicle in preventing neurological dysfunction. delivery of methylprednisolone resulted in a significant decrease in tumor vascular permeability (p less than 0.006) while u-74006f and u-78517f had no effect on permeability. this suggests that u-74006f and u-78517f prevented tumor-associated neurological dysfunction by a mechanism other than decreasing permeability in tumor capillaries, and that u-74006f or u-78517f could prove useful in the treatment of brain tumors.
population aging patterns: the expansion of mortality. we used the hypothesis of mortality compression as a framework to examine patterns of mortality from 1962 to 1984. data from national vital statistics records were used for analysis of the changing age at death for percentiles of the population. data from the social security administration and the u.s. census bureau were used to calculate the force of mortality. the mean age at death for all percentiles, including the oldest groups, has risen during the interval. examination of the coefficient of variation for the mean age at death suggests that there is a relative increase in the variability of age at death among the oldest old. the available data do not fit a hypothetical sequence of normal density distributions with an increasing mean and declining standard deviation. the force of mortality in those over 85 years appears to be decreasing in a pattern similar to that for those under 85 years. current mortality patterns suggest an "expansion," rather than compression, of mortality at the oldest ages. further refinement of these observations, with improved data on mortality among the oldest old, will be helpful in delineating mortality patterns.
arsenic poisoning: acute or chronic? suicide or murder? the case of the death by arsenic poisoning of a 62-year-old white man is presented. one year prior to death, he developed intermittent bouts of severe gastroenteritis with vomiting and diarrhea, hyperpigmentation and keratosis of the skin, neutropenia, and guillain-barre-like neuropathy for which he was hospitalized several times. urine test results 6 months prior to death indicating 36 mg/l arsenic were believed to be in error. at the patient's last admission, he appeared in the emergency room with severe gastroenteritis, hypotension, and dehydration. he died 3 days later. antemortem as well as autopsy specimens revealed elevated arsenic concentrations. arsenic micrograms/g analysis by neutron activation of hair pulled from the man's head revealed by centimeter segmental analysis proximal to distal: 226, 104, 28, 56, 41, 40, and 74. the wife of the decedent was charged with murder by arsenic poisoning of this, her fifth, husband. the defense alleged that the decedent had committed suicide. the judge awarded a directed verdict of "not guilty." particulars of the medical, toxicological, and investigative findings are presented.
oral manifestations of crohn's disease. an analysis of 79 cases. we report four new cases of oral manifestation in crohn's disease (cd) and evaluate 75 reported cases for morphology and site of oral and intestinal manifestations of cd, clinical manifestation, and treatment. oral cd was the presenting symptom in 43 of 72 (60%) patients and relapsed in 34 of 60 (57%). median age at presentation was 22 (range 6-57) years, and males were affected more often (1.85:1, male:female ratio). from a total of 228 oral lesions in 79 patients, lips (57 lesions), gingiva (40 lesions), vestibular sulci (31 lesions), and buccal mucosa (25 lesions) were the sites most frequently affected. edema (62 lesions), ulcers (57 lesions), and polypoid papulous hyperplastic mucosa (45 lesions) were the most common type of lesions. the rate of granuloma detection was high in oral (67-77%) and intestinal lesions (45-71%). a total of 66 courses of drug therapy in 51 patients were analyzed. complete remission of oral symptoms was achieved by systemic steroids and/or azathioprine in 13 of 26 (50%) patients, whereas strictly topical treatment with steroids resulted in complete remission of oral symptoms in 7 of 12 (58%). we conclude that oral cd exhibits a characteristic morphologic appearance, as often as not preceding intestinal symptoms in adolescents and young adults. thus, patients with orofacial granulomatosis cd should be vigorously searched for by complete gastrointestinal endoscopic investigation. oral cd may cause disabling pain and facial distortion, and results of treatment remain unrewarding. in the absence of data from controlled therapeutic trials, systemic steroids and/or azathioprine are recommended if topical treatment has failed to control symptoms.
trans-scleral application of a semiconductor diode laser. we used a diode laser with an output power of 1 w through a fiberoptic light pipe (200 microns diameter) to deliver laser energy through the sclera of pigmented rabbits. ciliary body destruction occurred with energy levels of 300-400 mw and exposure time of 0.5 sec. retinal photocoagulation was achieved with energy levels of 200-500 mw in 0.5 sec. histologic examination of acute lesions demonstrated thermal destruction of ciliary body processes and retina. chorioretinal scar formation was observed clinically and histologically within 2-3 weeks. our data indicate that the transscleral diode laser may be used for destruction of the ciliary body processes or peripheral retinal coagulation in pigmented eyes.
cerebrospinal fluid fistula and endoscopic sinus surgery. seven cases of cerebrospinal fluid fistulae occurring as a result of endoscopic sinus surgery in a total of 800 ethmoidectomies are discussed, along with 1 case referred for consultation. one cerebrospinal fluid fistula was intrasphenoid, 4 were posterior ethmoid/base of skull, 2 were anterior ethmoid, and 1 was ethmoid cribriform. six of 8 fistulae were closed endoscopically. the sphenoid sinus cerebrospinal fluid fistula was closed successfully with fibrin glue and gelfoam. five cerebrospinal fluid fistulae were closed successfully using fascia, muscle, and gel-foam. two cerebrospinal fluid fistulae were treated conservatively, and only 1 stopped. anatomic and technical aspects related to the occurrence of cerebrospinal fluid fistulae are discussed. management and treatment of cerebrospinal fluid fistulae occurring during and after endoscopic sinus surgery is emphasized. when identified intraoperatively or delayed, cerebrospinal fluid fistulae can be managed successfully by endoscopic technique.
diltiazem increases late-onset congestive heart failure in postinfarction patients with early reduction in ejection fraction. the adverse experience committee; and the multicenter diltiazem postinfarction research group the multicenter diltiazem postinfarction trial (mdpit) reported no consistent diltiazem effect on new or worsened congestive heart failure (chf) during 12-52 months' follow-up after acute myocardial infarction. this was puzzling in light of the observation that patients with findings suggesting left ventricular dysfunction (lvd) at baseline on diltiazem had more cardiac events (cardiac mortality or recurrent nonfatal infarction) than such patients on placebo. we hypothesized that diltiazem increased the frequency of late chf as well as of cardiac events, but only in patients predisposed by lvd. using the same characterizing variables as the primary mdpit analysis, we found that patients with pulmonary congestion, anterolateral q wave infarction, or reduced ejection fraction (ef) at baseline were more likely to have chf during follow-up than those without these markers of lvd. chf was particularly frequent in the patients with lvd who were randomized to diltiazem. among those with a baseline ef of less than 0.40, late chf appeared in 12% (39/326) receiving placebo and 21% (61/297) receiving diltiazem (p = 0.004). life table analysis in patients with an ef of less than 0.40 confirmed more frequent late chf in those taking diltiazem (p = 0.0017). in addition, the diltiazem-associated rise in the frequency of late chf was progressively greater with increasingly severe decrements in baseline ef. this diltiazem effect was absent in patients with pulmonary congestion at baseline but an ef of 0.40 or more, suggesting a unique association between diltiazem-related late chf and systolic lvd.
lack of effect of chronic administration of oral beta-carotene on serum cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations. previous studies suggest that chronic oral administration of retinol and other retinoids causes elevation of plasma triglyceride concentrations. the effects of chronic oral administration of beta-carotene, a carotenoid partially metabolized to retinol, on plasma lipid concentrations have not been well studied; therefore, we studied 61 subjects over 12 mo while they were enrolled in a skin-cancer-prevention study in which patients were randomly assigned to receive either placebo (n = 30) or 50 mg beta-carotene/d orally (n = 31). at study entry and 1 y later, fasting blood samples were obtained for measurement of triglycerides, total cholesterol, hdl cholesterol, retinol, and beta-carotene. retinol concentrations changed minimally in both groups; beta-carotene concentration increased an average of 12.1 +/- 47 nmol/l in the placebo group and 4279 +/- 657 nmol/l in the active-treatment group. both groups experienced similar small increases in triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations and small decreases in hdl cholesterol. daily oral administration of 50 mg beta-carotene/d did not affect plasma lipid concentrations.
spinal man after declaration of brain death complex spinal automatism in a patient who was declared brain dead is described. these movements tend to appear once cerebrospinal shock has abated. we postulate that these manifestations are a reflection of the physiological potential of the isolated spinal cord. these spinal movements should be included in the revised guidelines for the determination of cerebral death.
application of instat hemostat in the control of gingival hemorrhage in the patient with thrombocytopenia. a case report. gingival bleeding in the patient with thrombocytopenia can be a difficult management problem. primary therapy with platelet transfusions may not be sufficient to control the hemorrhage and adjunctive local therapy may be required. currently, few local management techniques can effectively control this problem. instat collagen absorbable hemostat can be used as a local adjunct with platelet transfusions and has certain application advantages over topical thrombin and microfibrillar collagen. two successful techniques of instat application to control gingival hemorrhage in a patient with severe thrombocytopenia in leukemic relapse are described.
prevalence of chronic bronchitis among us hispanics from the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey, 1982-84. in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey (hhanes), puerto ricans had a higher age-adjusted prevalence of self-reported chronic bronchitis (2.9 percent, 95% ci = 2.2, 3.6) than mexican americans (1.7 percent, 95% ci = 1.3, 2.1) or cubans (1.7 percent, 95% ci = 0.9, 2.5). the prevalence of chronic bronchitis was at least 2 times higher in smokers as compared to nonsmokers among puerto ricans and cubans, but not for mexican americans.
patterns of neuropsychological impairment after severe blunt head injury. a consecutive series of 100 subjects with severe blunt head injuries was followed up 6 years after trauma. neuropsychological test performances of 82 subjects and of a noninjured control group were analyzed by two principal components analyses (pcas). each pca extracted 15 factors relating to a range of cognitive impairments, as well as neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality changes. measures identified by the pcas were applied to 85 head-injured subjects in the series to examine the incidence of impairment in four neuropsychological areas: disorders of learning and memory, neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality change, slowness in rate of information processing, and a range of basic neuropsychological skills. overall, impairments occurred in 70% of the series. disorders of learning and memory were the most common type of deficit (56.5%), with disturbances in basic neuropsychological skills the least frequent (16.5%). variability among subjects with respect to the types and combinations of neuropsychological impairments was a characteristic feature of this clinical group, but the largest proportion (one-third) demonstrated isolated impairments. the implications of the incidence and selectivity of neuropsychological impairments are discussed.
reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release after rebleeding in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. serial blood samples were obtained from 80 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) to study adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane b2 release. the goal of the investigation was to detect whether reduced platelet function is involved in rebleeds. seventeen patients (21%) suffered a rebleed, six of those experiencing their first rebleed within 24 hours after sah. therefore, most platelet function studies were performed after rebleeds. thromboxane release was lower in patients with rebleeds than in the others, both before and after rebleeding, although statistical significance was reached only in samples collected after rebleeds. patients rebleeding within 24 hours after sah had lower platelet aggregability (p = 0.037) than patients without a rebleed in the samples taken within 3 days after sah. the results suggest that reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are involved in rebleeds following primary sah.
outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus. objective--to compare the outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus and in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal failure. design--retrospective comparison of cases and matched controls. setting--renal unit, western infirmary, glasgow, providing both dialysis and renal transplantation. patients--82 diabetic patients starting renal replacement treatment between 1979 and 1988, compared with 82 matched non-diabetic controls with renal failure and 39 different matched controls undergoing renal transplantation. main outcome measures--patient characteristics, history of smoking, prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischaemia at start of renal replacement treatment; survival of patients with renal replacement treatment and of patients and allografts with renal transplantation. results--the overall survival of the diabetic patients during the treatment was 83%, 59%, and 50% at one, three, and five years. survival was significantly poorer in the diabetic patients than the controls (p less than 0.001). particularly adverse features for outcome at the start of treatment were increasing age (p less than 0.01) and current cigarette smoking (relative risk (95% confidence interval) 2.28 (0.93 to 4.84), p less than 0.05). deaths were mainly from cardiac and vascular causes. the incidence of peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis was the same in diabetic patients and controls (49% in each group remained free of peritonitis after one year), and the survival of renal allografts was not significantly worse in diabetic patients (p less than 0.5). conclusions--renal replacement treatment may give good results in diabetic patients, although the outlook remains less favourable than for non-diabetic patients because of coexistent, progressive vascular disease, which is more severe in older patients.
diagnosis of malignant cardiac disease by endomyocardial biopsy among oncology patients, endomyocardial biopsy has been used primarily for the evaluation of anthracycline cardiotoxicity. in addition, however, endomyocardial biopsy may be useful for the detection of malignant cardiac neoplasms. between 1982 and 1989, metastatic involvement of the heart was diagnosed by endomyocardial biopsy in seven patients at our institution. all except one of these patients were older than 50 years of age and had dyspnea as an initial symptom, and all had a known malignant lesion. results of endomyocardial biopsy confirmed cardiac involvement by a hematologic malignant lesion in four patients and metastatic melanoma in two patients. in one patient, who had a history of breast cancer and lymphoma, a metastatic neoplasm of uncertain differentiation was observed. myocyte damage was evident in endomyocardial biopsy specimens from two of the four patients with hematologic malignant disease. endomyocardial biopsy was performed to confirm the possibility of metastatic involvement in five patients; in the other two, endomyocardial biopsy was performed to determine whether anthracycline cardiotoxicity was present, and metastatic involvement was unanticipated.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a new endoscopic technique that has diffused throughout the surgical community with great rapidity. although the datta panelists considered the procedure appropriate with respect to both its safety and effectiveness, recognition was made that there are no comparative trials of this technique vs open cholecystectomy and virtually no literature on complication rates. the society of american gastrointestinal endoscopic surgeons has developed minimal credentialing criteria for determining competence in laparoscopic surgery. this includes completion of an approved residency training in general surgery, training in laparoscopic technique either by a surgeon experienced in this procedure or by completion of an approved course in the technique requiring hands-on laboratory practice, and observation or proctoring of an actual surgical procedure. many of the datta panelists (35 of 40 [87.5%]) reiterated the importance of requiring that the procedure be performed first with animals and that subsequent laparoscopic procedures on patients be done under the supervision of an expert in laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
corticosteroids for acute, severe asthma. corticosteroids have been used in the therapy of acute, severe asthma since the early 1950s. numerous randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in adults and children have proven corticosteroids to be efficacious. only the results from less rigorously designed trials have failed to show a beneficial effect. the onset of response, dose, and mode of administration have been relatively well defined; however, other aspects (i.e., duration of therapy, need to taper the dose, and risks of multiple short bursts) require further study. early institution of corticosteroids in well-defined patient populations will decrease the need for hospitalizations. however, administration of corticosteroids to every patient presenting to the clinician's office or emergency room prior to aggressive bronchodilator therapy is unwarranted. all patients demonstrating an incomplete response or the inability to maintain a complete response following one to two hours of aggressive bronchodilator therapy should receive a course of corticosteroids. courses as short as three to five days have proven efficacy in outpatients, whereas hospitalized patients usually are treated for seven to ten days. the duration of therapy depends on the individual rate of response.
htlv-i viral-associated myelopathy after blood transfusion in a multiple trauma patient. this may be the first documented case in the united states and in the orthopedic literature of transfusion-transmitted human t-cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy (ham). progressive myelopathy occurred in a 58-year-old white man with serologic and molecular evidence of htlv-i infection after multiple trauma and subsequent transfusion with multiple units of banked blood products. symptoms of myelopathy occurred 15 months after the transfusions. myelopathy from htlv-i infection simulates a disorder of orthopedic interest. physicians should be aware of the symptoms of ham and unexplained myelopathy.
dental enamel defects in first-degree relatives of coeliac disease patients. to find out whether dental changes can be used to screen for coeliac disease among apparently healthy relatives of patients with the disorder, 56 healthy first-degree relatives of such patients were subjected to dental examination and small bowel biopsy. 25 had coeliac-type general permanent-tooth enamel lesions. all 7 who had histological evidence of coeliac disease also had enamel lesions. the finding that enamel defects may occur without small bowel changes must be borne in mind in screening. the coeliac-type enamel changes were strongly associated with hla-dr3, and most of the dr3 alleles belonged to the extended haplotype a1; b8; dr3 group.
in vitro rosetting, cytoadherence, and microagglutination properties of plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes from gambian and tanzanian patients. to understand the molecular mechanisms that lead to sequestration of red blood cells infected with mature stages of plasmodium falciparum and to examine the relevance of earlier studies on adherence properties of laboratory-derived p falciparum parasites to the natural parasite population, we analyzed gambian and tanzanian isolates for in vitro cytoadherence and antibody-mediated microagglutination. eighteen cryopreserved isolates of ring-stage parasites were cultured for 20 to 30 hours in vitro, in the patients original erythrocytes, to the trophozoite and schizont stage. all parasites were positive in the microagglutination assay with at least one of four african hyperimmune sera. in a rosetting assay, only 2 of the 18 isolates were strongly positive (35% and 41% of parasitized erythrocytes with more than two uninfected cells bound). thirteen isolates showed either intermediate (5% to 18%) or low (less than 5%) rosetting while three isolates did not form rosettes. infected cell-binding of the different isolates to immobilized cd36 or thrombospondin, or c32 melanoma cells correlated with the percentage of mature parasites in the blood samples (r = .932 for cd36, r = .946 for thrombospondin, and r = .881 for c32 melanoma cells). there was a high correlation between binding to cd36 and thrombospondin (r = .982). the extent of infected cell rosetting with uninfected cells in these blood samples was not correlated with these other receptor properties. we also observed coexpression of rosetting and cytoadherence receptors on the same parasitized erythrocytes.
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia. a report of sixteen cases. the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee (total replacement arthroplasty) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed. the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients, stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients, and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients. the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters. of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination (mean duration of follow-up, sixty-three months), three patients had an excellent result, seven had a good result, and one had a fair result. of the five patients who were not available for functional testing, one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months, one had died of metastases at sixteen months, and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis.
operative and conservative treatment of moderate spondylolisthesis in young patients. we made a retrospective study of 149 children and adolescents with moderate spondylolisthesis (slip less than or equal to 30%), 77 treated by fusion and 72 conservatively at an average follow-up of 13.3 years. both groups were fully comparable with regard to age at diagnosis, sex distribution (46% girls), and mean slip. the patients who were treated operatively had more pain before treatment and showed more initial progression of the slip. they had better clinical results and less pain at latest review, but the total progression of the slip over the whole follow-up showed no statistical differences between the two groups. patients with a pseudarthrosis after attempted fusion had had a longer period of postoperative pain, but at the latest review had no more pain than those with sound fusion. none of those treated conservatively came to fusion later and the long-term results in 18 patients who had refused the advised operation were no worse than those for other conservatively treated patients. our results suggest that a moderate grade of spondylolisthesis in adolescents usually has a benign course. it seems that spontaneous segmental stabilisation occurs as a result of degeneration of the disc at the level of the slip.
endothelium-derived relaxing factors. a perspective from in vivo data. we review below published studies of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in vivo. endothelium-dependent vasodilation has been demonstrated in conduit arteries in vivo and in the cerebral, coronary, mesenteric, and femoral vascular beds as well as in the microcirculation of the brain and the microcirculation of cremaster muscle. the available evidence, although not complete, strongly suggests that the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by acetylcholine in the cerebral microcirculation is a nitrosothiol. the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by bradykinin in this vascular bed is an oxygen radical generated in association with enhanced arachidonate metabolism via cyclooxygenase. in the microcirculation of skeletal muscle, on the other hand, the vasodilation from bradykinin is mediated partly by prostacyclin and partly by an endothelium-derived relaxing factor similar to that generated by acetylcholine. basal secretion of endothelium-derived relaxing factor is controversial in vivo but is usually present in vitro. on the other hand, it appears that endothelium-derived relaxing factor mediates flow-dependent vasodilation in both large vessels and in the microcirculation in vivo. the generation and release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor from endothelium may be abnormal in a variety of conditions including acute and chronic hypertension, atherosclerosis, and ischemia followed by reperfusion. several mechanisms for these abnormalities have been identified. these include inability to generate endothelium-derived relaxing factor or destruction of endothelium-derived relaxing factor by oxidants after its release in the extracellular space. these abnormalities in endothelium-dependent relaxation may contribute to the vascular abnormalities in these conditions.
anatomic, metabolic, neuropsychological, and molecular genetic studies of three pairs of identical twins discordant for dementia of the alzheimer's type. three pairs of twins, each with proved monozygosity, were shown to be discordant for dementia of the alzheimer's type and to have remained discordant for periods of 8 to 11 years. dementia of the alzheimer's type was demonstrated by history; serial clinical examinations; serial measurements of cerebral glucose utilization using positron emission tomography and of cerebral ventricular volumes and of rates of change of volumes using quantitative computed tomography; and by serial neuropsychological tests. the results of each of these measures showed no evidence of clinical abnormality in any unaffected twin. dna markers from the proximal long arm of chromosome 21 did not distinguish between the affected and the unaffected member of any pair of identical twins. family pedigrees were negative for alzheimer's disease. the results suggest that environmental or other nongenetic factors contribute to alzheimer's disease in discordant monozygotic twins, or that some cases arise by a postzygotic somatic mutation.
alcoholic blackouts: legal implications. alcoholic blackouts are defined as the temporary, complete inability to form long-term memory as the result of a high blood alcohol level. this means that a neuron-to-neuron system has been blocked. since that is the case, such central nervous dysfunction should have legal implications, both from the blackout itself and also from the fact that this degree of neural interference in one system is at least suggestive that other dysfunction may be present. the subject of blackouts is updated with recent developments in neuroscience. the legal significance of the blackout is examined in enough depth to allow for further discussion and exploration.
"healed" experimental gastric ulcers remain histologically and ultrastructurally abnormal. the present study was designed to assess histologic and ultrastructural features of gastric mucosa in the areas of grossly healed ulcers (acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers) in rats. the specific question we studied was whether the structure and cellular composition of the gastric mucosa in an area of grossly healed ulcer were fully restored. eighty sprague-dawley rats underwent laparotomy; 100% acetic acid was applied to the lower gastric corpus serosa for 30 s and the abdomen was closed. the stomachs were reopened after 2 weeks or after 2, 3, or 4 months. standardized gastric wall specimens from the area of grossly healed ulcers were obtained, processed, and evaluated by light microscopy and by transmission electron microscopy. the gastric mucosa of grossly healed ulcers demonstrated re-epithelialization at each study time but the mucosa beneath the surface epithelium displayed prominent histologic and ultrastructural abnormalities. two different patterns of scar could be distinguished: (a) the mucosa in the area of healed ulcer was thinner (25-45% reduction vs. normal), with increased connective tissue and poor differentiation and/or degenerative changes in the glandular cells; or (b) the mucosa displayed ballooning dilatation of gastric glands, reduction in the microvascular network, and poor differentiation of glandular cells. we conclude that (i) the subepithelial mucosa of grossly healed gastric ulcer displays disorganized restoration of glandular and vascular structures and remains histologically and ultrastructurally abnormal; (ii) these abnormalities may interfere with oxygenation, nutrient supply, and with mucosal resistance and defense, and therefore could be the basis for ulcer recurrence.
restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty: pathologic observations in 20 patients histopathologic examination was performed in 20 patients undergoing antemortem coronary angioplasty. thirty-four lesions were dilated and the interval between coronary angioplasty and death ranged from several hours to 4 years. intimal proliferation of smooth muscle cells, as a major cause of restenosis, was observed in 83% to 100% of 28 lesions examined 11 days to 2 years after coronary angioplasty. in 20 lesions examined within 6 months, proliferating smooth muscle cells were predominantly of the synthetic type and there was abundant extracellular matrix substance chiefly composed of proteoglycans. in eight lesions examined between 6 months and 2 years, contractile type smooth muscle cells were dominant and extracellular matrix was composed chiefly of collagen. in three lesions examined after 2 years, evidence of antemortem coronary angioplasty was hardly identifiable and these lesions were almost indistinguishable from conventional atherosclerotic plaque. these temporal changes in histologic pattern provide a pathologic background for clinical reports that restenosis is predominantly found within 6 months after coronary angioplasty. morphometric analysis revealed that the extent of intimal proliferation was significantly greater in lesions with evidence of medial or adventitial tears than in lesions with no or only intimal tears.
electrophysiologic effects of exogenous phosphocreatine in cardiac tissue: potential antiarrhythmic actions. the cellular electrophysiologic effects of exogenous phosphocreatine (pcr) were analyzed to ascertain its purported antiarrhythmic properties during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. transmembrane potentials were recorded from isolated guinea pig papillary muscles and purkinje fibers studied in vitro. under control, normoxic conditions, 10 mmol/l pcr significantly increased the action potential duration (measured at 90% of repolarization) in ventricular muscle by 14.6 +/- 3.3 msec and the effective refractory period by 11.5 +/- 3.8 msec (both p less than 0.01). under ischemic-like conditions (hypoxia, lactic acidosis, elevated [k+]o, zero substrate) pcr had no effect. phosphocreatinine, a related compound that is not a direct substrate in the creatine kinase reaction, acted similarly to pcr suggesting that alterations induced by pcr did not involve a change in the energy state of cells. however, pcr reduced free [ca2+]o by nearly 20%, and its electrical effects under normoxic conditions could be largely reversed by a concomitant 20% increase in [ca2+]o. in purkinje fibers superfused with low [k+]o-tyrode's solution to elicit conditions of ca2+ overload, delayed afterdepolarizations and triggered responses were reversibly inhibited by pcr. these data suggest that the antiarrhythmic effects of pcr in situ may involve prolongation of the effective refractory period in nonischemic tissue or attenuation of membrane changes elicited by ca2+ overload in ischemic cells. the mechanism by which pcr produces these effects may be related in part to changes in extracellular ca2+ composition.
does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms, stroke, or death? the identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms, stroke, and death. to investigate these concerns, we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies, each documented as technically satisfactory. post-operative duplex doppler examination data at 3 days, 1, 3, 6, 12 months, and annually thereafter in 484 arteries (85.5%) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis: normal (n = 306); 1% to 19% (n = 89); 20% to 50% (n = 40); more than 50% (n = 49, including 8 occluded). the incidence of more than 50% restenosis was 14.5% in female and 7.7% in male patients (p = 0.003). life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis (p = 0.05). stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis, although this difference did not reach statistical significance. when survival and stroke were both endpoints, the likelihood of patients with more than 50% restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20% stenotic group (p = 0.03). thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms, stroke, or early death.
peptic ulcer surgery during the h2-receptor antagonist era: a population-based epidemiological study of ulcer surgery in helsinki from 1972 to 1987. to evaluate the effects of improvements in medical therapy on the incidence of, indications for and operative methods used in peptic ulcer surgery, all cases of primary peptic ulcer surgery among adults in the city of helsinki in the years 1972, 1977, 1982 and 1987 were analysed. there was a total of 565 such cases in a population which consisted of 5.2 x 10(5) individuals in 1972 and 4.8 x 10(5) individuals in 1987. the introduction of h2-receptor antagonists in 1979 was associated with a fall in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer operations, from 15.5 to 6.7 per 10(5) individuals, and a fall in the annual incidence of elective gastric ulcer operations, from 9.4 to 3.1 per 10(5) individuals (p less than 0.05). the decrease was greatest among males with duodenal ulcer. in contrast, the annual incidence of emergency surgery for ulcer haemorrhage and perforation (all types of ulcers) remained relatively stable, varying from 7.2 to 10.2 per 10(5) inhabitants over the observation period (n.s.). the mean age of patients undergoing elective surgery remained essentially unchanged. the mean age of patients undergoing emergency surgery increased. the decrease in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer surgery occurred mainly in relation to proximal gastric vagotomy. there was a concomitant relative increase in the incidence of gastric resection. the types of operative procedures used in cases of pyloric, prepyloric and gastric ulcer remained unchanged over the years 1972 to 1987.
mitral valve repair by replacement of chordae tendineae with polytetrafluoroethylene sutures. expanded polytetrafluoroethylene sutures have been used for replacement of diseased chordae tendineae during reconstructive procedures on the mitral valve in 43 patients. there were 28 men and 15 women whose mean age was 55 years, range 21 to 76. three fourths of the patients were in new york heart association class iii or iv. replacement of primary chordae tendineae of the anterior leaflet was performed with 4-0 or 5-0 polytetrafluoroethylene sutures. a double-armed suture was passed twice through the fibrous portion of the papillary muscle head and tied down. each arm of the suture was brought up to the free margin of the leaflet and passed through the area where the native chorda was attached. after the lengths of the two arms were adjusted, the ends were tied together on the ventricular side of the leaflet. thirty patients had degenerative disease of the mitral valve; the incompetence was due to prolapse of the anterior leaflet in 14 patients and prolapse of the anterior and posterior leaflets in 16. eleven patients had rheumatic mitral valve disease: four had stenosis, three had regurgitation, and four had mixed lesions. two patients had ischemic mitral regurgitation caused by rupture of a papillary muscle head. there were no operative deaths. patients have been followed up from 5 to 61 months, mean 13. doppler echocardiographic studies were performed at regular intervals after the operation and revealed normal mitral valve function in most patients there were two failures that necessitated mitral valve replacement: one because of acute mitral regurgitation and the other because of hemolysis. there have been two late deaths, neither one valve related. replacement of chordae tendineae with polytetrafluoroethylene sutures is simple and allows for reconstruction of the mitral valve in many patients who would otherwise require mitral valve replacement. because our patients have been followed up for a limited time, the long-term results of this procedure remain unknown.
mediastinitis following coronary artery bypass surgery: a 3-year review. twenty cases of mediastinitis after coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1985-1987 were reviewed to determine risk factors. two distinct clusters with a methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) strain occurred in 1986. one resident was exposed to six cases but to only 5 of 24 controls (p less than .008). cultures of his nares in january and november 1986 revealed the same mrsa strain as that of the cases. an attempt to eradicate the resident's nasal carriage of mrsa in january 1986 failed; eradication of his carrier state was achieved only after treatment with mupirocin. in a case-control study examining patients exposed to the resident, a prolonged duration of surgery (p less than .05) and a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl (p less than .009) were associated with mediastinitis with this mrsa. for the other 14 mediastinitis patients, who were not exposed to the resident, a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl was also a risk factor (8/14 cases vs. 8/43 controls, p less than .009). thus, this study suggests that it is important to follow mrsa disseminators and to recognize that preoperative serum albumin levels are a risk factor for mediastinitis.
combination hormonal therapy with tamoxifen plus fluoxymesterone versus tamoxifen alone in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. an updated analysis. a randomized trial was performed to determine if therapy with tamoxifen (tam) plus fluoxymesterone (flu) was more efficacious than tam alone for postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. patients failing tam could subsequently receive flu. the dose of both drugs was 10 mg orally twice daily. objective responses were seen in 50 of 119 (42%) tam patients and 64 of 119 (54%) tam plus flu patients (two-sided p = 0.07). time to disease progression was better for tam plus flu (medians: 11.6 versus 6.5 months; cox model, p = 0.03). duration of response and survival were similar in the two treatment arms. among 97 patients with estrogen receptor (er) of 10 or greater and 65 years of age or older, there were highly significant advantages for treatment with tam plus flu in both response rate and time to progression. of particular note is that in this patient group tam plus flu showed a survival advantage (cox model, p = 0.05). although these data require confirmation in a prospective randomized trial, they suggest that there is a substantive therapeutic advantage for tam plus flu over tam alone in elderly women with er of 10 fmol or greater.
gender differences in age effect on brain atrophy measured by magnetic resonance imaging. a prospective sample of 69 healthy adults, age range 18-80 years, was studied with magnetic resonance imaging scans (t2 weighted, 5 mm thick) of the entire cranium. volumes were obtained by a segmentation algorithm that uses proton density and t2 pixel values to correct field inhomogeneities ("shading"). average (+/- sd) brain volume, excluding cerebellum, was 1090.91 ml (+/- 114.30; range, 822.19-1363.66), and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) volume was 127.91 ml (+/- 57.62; range, 34.00-297.02). brain volume was higher (by 5 ml) in the right hemisphere (p less than 0.0001). men (n = 34) had 91 ml higher brain and 20 ml higher csf volume than women (n = 35). age was negatively correlated with brain volume [r(67) = -0.32, p less than 0.01] and positively correlated with csf volume (r = 0.74, p less than 0.0001). the slope of the regression line with age for csf was steeper for men than women (p = 0.03). this difference in slopes was significant for sulcal (p less than 0.0001), but not ventricular, csf. the greatest amount of atrophy in elderly men was in the left hemisphere, whereas in women age effects were symmetric. the findings may point to neuroanatomic substrates of hemispheric specialization and gender differences in age-related changes in brain function. they suggest that women are less vulnerable to age-related changes in mental abilities, whereas men are particularly susceptible to aging effects on left hemispheric functions.
transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract: prognostic variables and post-operative recurrences. in a retrospective study of 198 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract, post-operative recurrences developed as contralateral tumours in 2.5%, in the ureteric stump after conservative resection in 19% and in the bladder in 36.4%. upper tract recurrences resembled the primary tumours in terms of grade and stage; of the bladder tumours, 89% were similar in grade and 72% similar in stage to the primary tumours. age, sex, grade and stage had no effect on the number of bladder recurrences, but ureteric tumours had significantly more recurrences than renal pelvicaliceal tumours. sex, bladder recurrences and site of primary tumours did not influence survival. thus grade and stage of the primary tumour were the only predictive variables of the final outcome.
effects of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty on sleep architecture and patterns of obstructed breathing. in this retrospective study, 72 obstructive sleep apnea patients with polysomnograms taken before and after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty were evaluated. postoperatively, there was a significant improvement of sleep architecture and respiratory indices. in addition, a second group of 17 patients also had position recordings with their polysomnograms. time spent in supine and lateral sleep positions changed postoperatively. there was significant decrease of the apnea plus hypopnea index in the lateral position. this study indicates that there is significant improvement of sleep architecture and respiratory indices in the majority of patients after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, particularly in the lateral sleep position.
comparison of levels of several human microsomal cytochrome p-450 enzymes and epoxide hydrolase in normal and disease states using immunochemical analysis of surgical liver samples. a group of 100 human liver samples obtained from three different network sources was divided into groups of normal, cirrhotic, metastatic cancer and other disease groups. these samples were analyzed for amounts of cytochrome p-450 ia2, iic, iie1 and iiia and epoxide hydrolase per unit of microsomal protein using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunochemical staining. for each enzyme the amount of protein detected varied by two orders of magnitude, even within the set of normal liver samples. with respect to the liver samples judged to be normal, the cirrhotic samples showed decreased levels of p-450 ia2 and iie1 and epoxide hydrolase (p less than .05). the level of p-450 iiia proteins also appeared lower but the high variance did not allow such a statistically valid conclusion. the liver samples obtained from metastatic cancer patients did not show decreased levels of any of the proteins examined, and levels of p-450 iic proteins were enhanced in this group compared to the controls. in the samples obtained from patients with other liver diseases, the only major change was a decrease in the level of p-450 ia2. these findings are of use in explaining some of the known effects of hepatic disease on the in vitro and in vivo metabolism of certain drugs.
vascularized full-thickness parietal bone grafts in maxillofacial reconstruction: the role of the galea and superficial temporal vessels. reconstruction of bony structures of the face is always a problem as big as the defect and the function that must be replaced. everything from simple grafts to sophisticated distant bone flaps has been used. based on the studies of cutting et al., psillakis et al., and casanova et al., we have developed the full-thickness galeoparietal bone flap, initially for mandibular reconstruction, but of great use for all maxillofacial reconstructions. from july of 1987 to december of 1988, 14 patients have been operated on. the experience with this flap is shown in four patients as follows: primary reconstruction of a mandible as a result of ameloblastoma, secondary reconstruction of a mandible with associated old fractures and malalignment of segments, bilateral malar reconstruction in a patient with treacher collins syndrome, and severe sequelae of an already treated romberg case. small variations could be made to best accommodate the technique used to the defect we were treating. some technical details, the experience, the results, and possible sequelae or complications are also discussed.
sialosyl-tn. a novel mucin antigen associated with prognosis in colorectal cancer patients. colon cancers typically produce mucin. however, it is not known whether tumor mucin plays a biological role in cancer cell behavior. to address this issue, the expression of a mucin-associated antigen, sialosyl-tn, was examined by immunohistochemical study in 128 primary colorectal carcinoma specimens from 137 patients who underwent curative surgical resection. antigen expression was correlated with disease-free and overall 5-year survival. sialosyl-tn antigen expression occurred in 112 (87.5%) tumors, and was independent of age, gender, tumor location, dukes' stage, depth of invasion, degree of differentiation, and ploidy status. survival at 5 years for patients with sialosyl-tn-negative versus sialosyl-tn-positive tumors was 100% versus 73% (p less than 0.05) and disease-free survival was 94% versus 73%, respectively (p = 0.12). although more advanced dukes' stage, deeper invasion, and aneuploidy were all associated with poorer overall 5-year survival, antigen-negative tumors within each of these groups had much better prognoses than antigen-positive tumors. multivariate regression analysis revealed that tumor ploidy (p less than 0.001) and sialosyl-tn expression (p less than 0.05) were the two variables of most importance for predicting both disease-free and overall survival. the authors conclude that sialosyl-tn expression is an independent predictor of poor prognosis in colon cancer, and therefore suggest that qualitative mucin alterations may reflect important differences in the biological behavior of these neoplasms.
comparison of dna content in gastric cancer cells between primary lesions and lymph node metastases. cytophotomtric dna contents of tumor cells in primary lesions and the corresponding metastatic lymph nodes were compared in 61 cases of gastric cancer to determine whether the dna content remains stable during lymph node metastasis. the dna distribution patterns were grouped into three types, according to the proportion of aneuploid cell population. changes in dna patterns between primary and metastatic lesions were evident in 36 of 61 patients (59.0%); in the remaining 25 (41.0%), the same dna distribution patterns were noted for both lesions. in 33 of these 36, dna pattern in the primary carcinoma was transformed into a more narrowly scattered one in the metastatic lesion of the lymph node. mean and modal values and the frequency of cells over tetraploid (4c) or hexaploid (6c) were significantly higher in the primary lesion compared with findings in the metastatic lesions. this reduction in dna content in the metastatic lesions was a more frequent occurrence in differentiated (18 of 23) than in undifferentiated adenocarcinoma (15 of 35) (p less than 0.01). therefore, in primary lesions with a widely scattered dna ploidy, the tumor cells with a smaller dna ploidy frequently metastasized to lymph nodes, particularly in cases of a differentiated carcinoma. such observations may be pertinent in future designing of treatment protocols.
driving in parkinson's disease. altered motor or mental skills in parkinson's disease (pd) could adversely affect driving ability. we interviewed 150 patients regarding their driving habits and compared them with 100 controls. thirty patients had stopped driving because of pd. pd patients had no more lifetime accidents than controls. with increased disability, however, there was a smaller percentage of patients still driving with fewer miles traveled and with proportionately more accidents occurring. though disability scores did not correlate well with driving ability, there were significantly more accidents in subjects with more severe pd. the presence of cognitive impairment was associated with an increased accident rate. we conclude that driving in pd may be a public health problem and that some pd patients should not drive.
limitations of electroencephalographic monitoring in the detection of cerebral ischemia accompanying carotid endarterectomy. an analysis was undertaken of 458 consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed over 6 years with the patient under general anesthesia and with electroencephalographic monitoring. seventy patients (15%) had electroencephalographic changes suggestive of ischemia with carotid clamping and had shunts placed. ischemic encephalographic changes occurred in 26% of patients with an occluded contralateral carotid artery, 21% of patients with a prior stroke history, and 12% of patients with no stroke history and a patent contralateral carotid artery. nineteen strokes (4.1%), nine transient deficits (2.0%), and one death (0.2%) occurred in the 458 endarterectomies in this experience. ten of the 19 strokes and five of nine transient deficits were immediately apparent when patients awoke from anesthesia. five of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all five patients with immediate transient deficits had no ischemic electroencephalographic changes during the procedure. two other patients with immediate strokes initially had ischemic electroencephalographic changes after carotid clamping that reversed with increased blood pressure or shunting. therefore 7 of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all 5 patients with immediate transient deficits had electroencephalographs unchanged from baseline at completion of the procedure, and thus deficits not manifest by operative electroencephalographic changes developed. our data do not support the tenet that electroencephalographic monitoring will always predict neurologic deficits accompanying carotid endarterectomy.
corticosteroid use and peptic ulcer disease: role of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. objective: to estimate the relative risk for peptic ulcer disease that is associated with the use of oral corticosteroids. design: a nested case-control study. setting: tennessee medicaid program. participants: the case patients (n = 1415) were hospitalized between 1984 and 1986 for gastric or duodenal ulcer or for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage of unknown cause. the controls (n = 7063) were randomly selected from medicaid enrollees not meeting the study criteria for inclusion as case patients. measurements and main results: the estimated relative risk for the development of peptic ulcer disease among current users of oral corticosteroids was 2.0 (95% ci, 1.3 to 3.0). however, the risk was increased only in those who concurrently received nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids); these persons had an estimated relative risk associated with current corticosteroid use of 4.4 (ci, 2.0 to 9.7). in contrast, the estimated relative risk for those corticosteroid users not receiving nsaids was 1.1 (ci, 0.5 to 2.1). persons concurrently receiving corticosteroids and nsaids had a risk for peptic ulcer disease that was 15 times greater than that of nonusers of either drug. conclusion: discrepant findings among earlier studies regarding steroids and the risk for peptic ulcer disease could in part be due to differences in the use of nsaids among study participants. the high risk for peptic ulcer disease associated with combined use of nsaids and corticosteroids indicates the need to prescribe this drug combination cautiously.
endocarditis in the emergency department. clinical presentations and pathogeneses of endocarditis and aspects of its diagnosis and management relevant to emergency department practice are reviewed. guidelines for admission, laboratory evaluation, and decisions regarding the initiation of therapy in the ed are offered. also discussed are the role of the emergency physician in the prevention of iatrogenic infection and current recommendations regarding administration of prophylactic antibiotics for ed procedures.
glucose-induced exertional fatigue in muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency background. the exercise capacity of patients with muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency is low and fluctuates from day to day. the basis of this variable exercise tolerance is unknown, but our patients with this disorder report that fatigue of active muscles is more rapid after a high-carbohydrate meal. methods and results. to determine the effect of carbohydrate on exercise performance, we asked four patients with muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency to perform cycle exercise under conditions of differing availability of substrate--i.e., after an overnight fast, and during an infusion of glucose or triglyceride (with 10 u of heparin per kilogram of body weight) after an overnight fast. as compared with fasting and the infusion of triglyceride with heparin, the glucose infusion lowered plasma levels of free fatty acids and ketones, reduced maximal work capacity by 60 to 70 percent, and lowered maximal oxygen consumption by 30 to 40 percent. glucose also increased the relative intensity of submaximal exercise, as indicated by a higher heart rate at a given workload during exercise. the maximal cardiac output (i.e., oxygen delivery) was not affected by varying substrate availability, but the maximal systemic arteriovenous oxygen difference was significantly lower during glucose infusion (mean +/- se, 5.5 +/- 0.3 ml per deciliter) than after fasting (7.6 +/- 0.4 ml per deciliter, p less than 0.05) or during the infusion of triglyceride with heparin (8.9 +/- 1.3 ml per deciliter, p less than 0.05). conclusions. in muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency, the oxidative capacity of muscle and the capacity for aerobic exercise vary according to the availability of blood-borne fuels. we believe that glucose infusion lowers exercise tolerance by inhibiting lipolysis and thus depriving muscle of oxidative substrate (plasma free fatty acids and ketones); this impairs the capacity of working muscle to extract oxygen and lowers maximal oxygen consumption.
current urinary mass screening for catecholamine metabolites at 6 months of age may be detecting only a small portion of high-risk neuroblastomas: a chromosome and n-myc amplification study. we studied 96 infants and children with untreated neuroblastomas. chromosomes of tumor cells were analyzed in 68, and n-myc copy numbers were determined in 67 patients. patients found by a mass screening program for 6-month-old infants (group a1, 39 patients) or those less than 12 months of age found clinically (group a2, 13 patients) were rarely in the disseminated stage (a1, three of 39; a2 one of 13); their tumors usually had near-triploid (3n) or hypertetraploid (greater than 4n) karyotypes (a1, 28 of 37; a2, nine of 11), and never had n-myc amplification (a1, zero of 34; a2, zero of 11). in contrast, children 12 months or over (group b, 27 patients) were usually in the disseminated stage (19 of 27) (p less than .0001); their tumors usually had near-diploid (2n) or near-tetraploid (4n) karyotypes (16 of 20) (p = .0027), and often had n-myc amplification (nine of 22) (p less than .0001). of the 40 clinically found patients (a2 and b), six had undergone the screening with a negative result at the age of 6 months. two of the six patients had n-myc amplification in the tumors. most tumors found by the screening showed known characteristics predicting a good prognosis, and the majority of tumors showing characteristics predicting a poor prognosis were found in patients aged between 12 and 36 months. our chromosome and n-myc amplification studies suggest that a low-risk tumor does not usually evolve to a high-risk tumor. thus, the current mass screening program may be detecting only a small portion of highly malignant neuroblastomas at the earliest stage. infants should be screened twice, at 6 months as well as at 12 months of age, for the early detection of high-risk neuroblastomas.
receptor changes in the spinal cord of sheep associated with exposure to chronic pain. there is evidence that post-injury hypersensitivity is partly due to changes in the central nervous system. sheep with foot rot were used to investigate the effect of chronic pain on some receptors thought to be involved in spinal nociceptive processing systems (alpha 2 adrenoceptor and mu and delta opioid receptors). saturation binding studies showed a variable distribution of [3h] clonidine (alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist) in the spinal cord of normal sheep. the number of receptors (bmax) present in areas thought to be involved in nociceptive processing, laminae i and ii and lamina x, increased to 131% and 169% of control sheep values respectively in animals exposed to chronic pain. the affinity of the receptors (kd), however, remained unchanged at approximately 2 nm. there was less [3h]dago (mu opioid agonist) and [3h]dpdpe (delta opioid agonist) binding in the sheep spinal cord. both opioid receptor types being mainly located in the superficial dorsal horn. the [3h]dpdpe binding was unchanged in the sheep with foot rot, whilst the number (bmax), but not the affinity, of the [3h]dago binding sites increased in laminae i and ii in lame animals to 130% of the control sheep values. hence, in animals in chronic pain, the number of alpha 2 adrenoceptors and mu opioid receptors increased mainly in areas of the sheep spinal cord associated with nociception.
upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer. is routine intravenous urography worthwhile? the incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy, 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter. ten patients developed upper tract tumours; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria. six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months. in this series, all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions. routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy.
standards for analysis of ventricular late potentials using high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography. a statement by a task force committee of the european society of cardiology, the american heart association, and the american college of cardiology. sufficient data are available to recommend the use of the high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiogram in patients recovering from myocardial infarction without bundle branch block to help determine their risk for developing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. however, no data are available about the extent to which pharmacological or nonpharmacological interventions in patients with late potentials have an impact on the incidence of sudden cardiac death. therefore, controlled, prospective studies are required before this issue can be resolved. as refinements in techniques evolve, it is anticipated that the clinical value of high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography will continue to increase.
potential usefulness of combined thromboxane a2 and serotonin receptor blockade for preventing the conversion from chronic to acute coronary artery disease syndromes. evidence suggests that unstable angina, non-q-wave myocardial infarction and q-wave myocardial infarcts represent a continuum, such that transient reduction in coronary blood flow associated with platelet aggregation and dynamic vasoconstriction at sites of coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury lead to abrupt development of unstable angina. factors potentially responsible for the conversion from chronic to acute coronary artery disease include endothelial injury at sites of stenosis. the endothelial injury may be the result of plaque fissuring or ulceration, hemodynamic factors (including systemic arterial hypertension or flow shear stress), infection, smoking, coronary arteriography or balloon angioplasty. clinical and experimental animal studies suggest that interference with thromboxane and serotonin contributions to platelet aggregation and dynamic coronary artery constriction may prevent chronic coronary artery disease syndromes from converting to acute disease. to protect against this process may require both thromboxane and serotonin receptor antagonists or a combination of thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist. further studies are needed to test this hypothesis.
allelic variants at insulin-receptor and insulin gene loci and susceptibility to niddm in welsh population. a cohort of 132 well-documented white welsh non-insulin-dependent diabetic (niddm) subjects were genotyped for 5 restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms (rflps) at the insulin-receptor gene (irg) locus and a polymorphic locus 5' to the insulin gene. there was no significant difference in rflp frequencies between the niddm subjects and a group of 87 matched white control subjects. paired haplotype analysis of the irg rflps suggested a difference between niddm and control groups for the endonuclease combinations bgl ii-rsa i and bgl ii-xba i. analysis of implied haplotypes defined by the endonucleases bgl ii, rsa i, and xba i revealed one haplotype to be more prevalent in the niddm group; whereas, another haplotype was associated with the control group (p less than 0.02). subset analysis within the niddm cohort compared the metabolic response of niddm subjects with the differing irg haplotypes to a standard meal tolerance test. both groups showed equivalent basal and postprandial glucose excursions, but one group revealed a significantly exaggerated plasma insulin response compared with the other (p less than 0.05). this may reflect the influence of genetic variation at the irg locus on insulin sensitivity in patients with niddm.
leucine kinetics in patients with benign disease, non-weight-losing cancer, and cancer cachexia: studies at the whole-body and tissue level and the response to nutritional support. we have performed intraoperative isotopic infusions of carbon 14-labeled leucine in 65 patients to define the abnormalities in protein metabolism at both the whole-body and tissue level in patients with weight-losing and non-weight-losing cancer. eighteen patients had benign disease, 26 had non-weight-losing cancer, and 21 had cancer cachexia. samples of plasma and expired breath were taken to determine rates of whole-body protein synthesis (wbps), whole-body protein catabolism (wbpc), net protein catabolism, and albumin fractional synthetic rates. tissue samples were taken to determine the fractional synthetic rates (fsr) of protein in muscle, liver, cancer, and the tissue in which the cancer arose. in addition, in 14 patients the effect of nutritional support on protein metabolism was assessed. in all parameters examined we were unable to detect any significant differences between patients with no cancer and the patients with non-weight-losing cancer. in contrast, patients with cancer cachexia had a significant elevation (p less than 0.005) in wbpc compared with the other two groups. wbps was also elevated (to a lesser extent) in the patients with cancer cachexia, and the rate of net protein catabolism was increased significantly (p less than 0.05). patients with cancer cachexia also had significantly higher values of fsr of protein in muscle (p less than 0.05), liver (p less than 0.05), and albumin (p less than 0.01) compared with the other two groups. in addition, the protein fsr in the cancer rose progressively when the values for the primary cancer were compared with those for nodal and systemic metastases. further, although nutritional support resulted in an increase in host muscle protein synthesis (p less than 0.04), there was no promotion of fsr of protein in cancer. we conclude that patients with cancer cachexia are actively losing protein as a result of an increase in wbpc that is only partially compensated for by an increase in wbps. there are compensatory increases in protein synthesis in muscle and liver, but these increases in host protein synthesis are insufficient to keep pace with the combined effect of the accelerated rate of protein synthesis in the cancer per se and the accelerated rate of net protein catabolism at the whole-body level. in response to nutritional support, there is a significant increase in the muscle protein synthesis, but we could not demonstrate any increase in cancer protein synthesis.
epstein-barr virus associated oesophageal ulcers in aids. epstein-barr virus (ebv) associated ulceration has not previously been included in the differential diagnosis of oesophageal ulcers in aids. we report five cases of oesophageal ulceration in homosexual men with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom this was considered to be the most likely cause. dna in situ hybridisation studies showed ebv in biopsy material from three of four patients with oesophageal ulcers and in none of three controls. of other viruses studied, only human papillomavirus was present, and this was found in both patients and control subjects. these findings support the hypothesis that ebv is an aetiological factor in some cases of aids-associated oesophageal ulceration.
simultaneous 'dual system' rehabilitation in the treatment of facial paralysis. simultaneous dual system rehabilitation of facial paralysis involves using two independent reanimation techniques to optimize facial movement in both a quantitative and qualitative manner. these techniques involve the use of nerve grafting or crossover procedures combined with a dynamic muscle transfer. a group of 37 patients who underwent five different combinations of reanimation was analyzed. the techniques were evaluated using a standard rating scheme for judging success of reanimation procedures. the combination of a masseter muscle transfer to the lower region of the face and a cable graft of the upper facial nerve division appeared to offer excellent results in terms of independent motion of the upper and lower regions of the face and good eye closure, while allowing spontaneous mimetic function in 50% of cases. the advantages and disadvantages of the other techniques are described. the clinical situations in which these techniques have advantage over single reanimation techniques are outlined.
low metastatic potential of clone from murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 increased by transfection of activated c-erbb-2 gene. we investigated the effect of an activated c-erbb-2 gene (also known as erbb2) on metastatic potential. the c-erbb-2 gene was activated by mutation of the valine at position 659 within the transmembrane domain to glutamic acid. the activated c-erbb-2 expression vector was transfected into low-metastatic-potential nl-4 cells, which were established from a metastatic variant of murine colon adenocarcinoma 26. all 10 clones produced lung metastases in balb/c mice injected via the tail vein. eight of the 10 clones expressed messenger rna (mrna) of activated c-erbb-2 and showed morphological alteration; seven of the eight produced significantly enhanced experimental metastatic activity compared with that of untransfected nl-4 or nl-4neo cells, and one had metastatic ability similar to that of nl-4 cells. two clones did not express c-erbb-2 mrna and did not show morphological alteration or highly metastatic phenotype. five of the 10 clones subcutaneously implanted in the flank failed to produce metastasis in the lungs or other organs of the mice. the metastatic ability of the other five clones was not determined. these results indicate that the activated c-erbb-2 gene can enhance experimental but not spontaneous metastatic potential in nl-4 cells, suggesting participation of the gene in the metastatic process after initial arrest and lodgement in the capillary bed.
giant cell versus lymphocytic myocarditis. a comparison of their clinical features and long-term outcomes background. giant cell myocarditis has rarely been diagnosed premortem, and little is known about its natural history. in addition, no comparative studies with lymphocytic myocarditis exist. methods and results. the clinical features, serial change in left ventricular fraction (lvef), and outcomes of all patients with histologically verified myocarditis were retrospectively evaluated. ten patients (22%) were found to have giant cell myocarditis (group 1), whereas the remaining 36 (78%) had lymphocytic myocarditis (group 2). age at presentation, gender distribution, duration of symptoms, initial lvef, and resting hemodynamics did not differ between groups. ventricular tachycardia was detected in 90% of group 1 patients compared with only 25% of group 2 (p = 0.0007). atrioventricular block that required pacemaker insertion was also more common in group 1 (60%) than in group 2 (8.3%) (p = 0.001). left ventricular systolic function declined during follow-up in group 1 patients (lvef, 0.43 +/- 0.07-0.26 +/- 0.05, p = 0.11) but increased in group 2 patients (lvef, 0.33 +/- 0.03-0.41 +/- 0.03, p = 0.02). when the net change between initial and final lvef was assessed, a significant difference was evident (giant cell group, -0.17 +/- 0.06; lymphocytic group, +0.07 +/- 0.03; p = 0.0008). although a greater proportion of patients in group 1 died or required transplantation (seven of 10 versus 11 of 36, p = 0.03), actuarial survival over 4 years was not different for the giant cell group (50%) than for the lymphocytic group (62%). conclusion. giant cell myocarditis was more prevalent than previously recognized and highly associated with both ventricular tachycardia and pacemaker requirement. the likelihood of an adverse event, either cardiovascular mortality or cardiac transplantation, was significantly greater for patients with giant cell myocarditis than for those with lymphocytic myocarditis, perhaps because of the progressive decline in left ventricular systolic function that was observed in those with giant cell myocarditis.
renal protective effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. renal dysfunction and hypertension are closely associated. hypertension causes approximately 25% of end-stage renal disease (esrd) and develops in virtually every patient with advanced renal insufficiency from any cause. although normalization of blood pressure can reduce mortality from uremia and ameliorate the progression of renal impairment in patients with established renal insufficiency from hypertension and diabetes, antihypertensive therapy alone is not totally effective in preventing progressive compromise of renal function--especially in blacks and diabetics, who are at high risk for developing esrd. of particular promise is the rapidly increasing understanding of the intrarenal autocrine and paracrine functions of angiotensin ii produced locally by a tissue renin-angiotensin system. consistent and convincing experimental data have demonstrated that angiotensin ii plays many roles in the control of renal function and the kidney's response to injury. the intrarenal effects of angiotensin ii include: 1) increase in the efferent arteriolar tone, resulting in increased glomerular capillary pressure, 2) promotion of mesangial cell contraction, 3) stimulation of proximal tubular na+ reabsorption, and 4) possible growth hormone effects leading to hypertrophy or hyperplasia of vascular smooth muscle. because of their favorable intrarenal hemodynamic effects (particularly reduction of glomerular capillary pressure), ace inhibitors may provide a renal protective effect in addition to their systemic antihypertensive effects. clinical trials evaluating the effect of ace inhibition on the progression of renal insufficiency in hypertensives and diabetics are currently under way. favorable results could lead to a significant decrease in the morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension.
similar frequencies of renin gene restriction fragment length polymorphisms in hypertensive and normotensive subjects. a prospective study was conducted to compare the frequency of renin gene polymorphisms in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. hypertensive (n = 102, blood pressure 168 +/- 17/103 +/- 9 mm hg) and normotensive (n = 120, blood pressure 122 +/- 10/75 +/- 9 mm hg) subjects were white, had similar age and sex distributions (hypertensive group, 45 +/- 10 years old and 52% female; normotensive group, 44 +/- 9 years old and 55% female) and similar body mass index (hypertensive group, 23.2 +/- 2.6; normotensive group, 22.5 +/- 2.4 kg/m2, p = 0.048). the familial susceptibility to hypertension was defined as at least one parent and one sibling who were hypertensive before age 65; subjects in the normotensive group had no familial history of hypertension. renin gene polymorphisms located throughout the renin gene were identified by using three restriction enzymes (taq i, hinfi, hindiii). for each polymorphic restriction site, allele frequencies were similar in the hypertensive and the normotensive groups. in the absence of parental genotypes, the haplotype frequencies combining the three restriction fragment length polymorphisms were estimated by using maximum likelihood techniques and were similar in both groups (hypertensive group, 0.429, 0.277, and 0.177; normotensive group, 0.453, 0.245, and 0.195 for the three most common haplotypes). a rare haplotype detected by taq i/hind iii was apparently more frequent in the hypertensive than in the normotensive group (hypertensive group, th 0.086, th 0.022; normotensive group, th 0.038, th 0.050), but the difference was not statistically significant. in conclusion, no association between renin gene polymorphisms and essential hypertension was demonstrated in the present study.
treatment of metastatic melanoma with an autologous tumor-cell vaccine: clinical and immunologic results in 64 patients. we treated 64 patients with metastatic melanoma using a melanoma vaccine preceded by low-dose cyclophosphamide (cy), and monitored immunologic effects and antitumor activity. on day 0, the patients were given cy 300 mg/m2 intravenously. three days later, they were injected intradermally with vaccine consisting of 10 to 25 x 10(6) autologous, enzymatically dissociated, cryopreserved, irradiated (25 gy) tumor cells mixed with bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg). this treatment sequence was repeated every 28 days. of 40 assessable patients with measurable metastases, five had responses, four complete and one partial, with a median duration of 10 months (7 to 84+ months). in six additional patients, we observed an antitumor response that seems to be peculiar to this vaccine therapy: the regression of metastatic lesions that appeared after the immunotherapy was begun. delayed-type hypersensitivity (dth) to autologous, mechanically dissociated melanoma cells that had not been exposed to extraneous antigens, such as enzymes or fetal calf serum, increased significantly following immunotherapy (day 0 v day 49, p less than .001; day 0 v day 161, p less than .001; day 0 v day 217, p = .021). antitumor responses to the vaccine were strongly associated with dth, as indicated by three observations: (1) eight of 10 patients who exhibited tumor regression had positive dth, (2) in postsurgical adjuvant patients, there was a highly significant linear relationship (p less than .001) between the intensity of dth to autologous melanoma cells and the time to recurrence of tumor, and (3) nine patients who developed dth to the autologous melanoma cells in their original vaccine developed new metastases that failed to elicit dth or elicited a much smaller response. in three cases, we were able to excise regressing tumors for histologic examination; such tumors were characterized by an intense infiltration of lymphocytes. this demonstration that an immune response to melanoma-associated antigens can be elicited in cancer-bearing patients provides some basis for optimism about the prospects for developing active immunotherapy that has practical therapeutic value.
warning: fatal reaction to the use of fibrin glue in deep hepatic wounds. case reports. two cases of severe hypotension following the use of fibrin glue for hemostasis in hepatic injuries are reported. a systemic reaction to bovine thrombin via large venous lacerations is suspected. a preliminary animal study supports this hypothesis. caution is advised in the use of fibrin glue for hemostasis in deep hepatic wounds.
a 3-bp deletion in the rhodopsin gene in a family with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adrp) has recently been linked to locus d3s47 (probe c17), with no recombination, in a single large irish family. other adrp pedigrees have shown linkage at zero recombination, linkage with recombination, and no linkage, demonstrating genetic heterogeneity. the gene encoding rhodopsin, the rod photoreceptor pigment, is closely linked to locus d3s47 on chromosome 3q. a point mutation changing a conserved proline to histidine in the 23d codon of the gene has been demonstrated in affected members of one adrp family and in 17 of 148 unrelated adrp patients. we have sequenced the rhodopsin gene in a c17-linked adrp family and have identified in the 4th exon and in-frame 3-bp deletion which deletes one of the two isoleucine monomers at codons 255 and 256. this mutation was not found in 30 other unrelated adrp families. the deletion has arisen in the sequence tcatcatcat, deleting one of a run of three x 3-bp repeats. the mechanism by which this occurred may be similar to that which creates length variation in so-called mini- and microsatellites. thus adrp is an extremely heterogeneous disorder which can result from a range of defects in rhodopsin and which can have a locus or loci elsewhere in the genome.
easy dissection of hard and thickened pericardium on constrictive pericarditis. the keys to successful pericardiectomy for constrictive pericarditis are early operation and as complete a pericardiectomy as possible. with the high-speed burr it is easy and safe to dissect the calcified pericardium and define the epicardium even in a small operative field such as the inferior or posterior portion of the heart. this method has the important ability to perform very complete pericardiectomy.
comparison of functional and structural brain disturbances in wilson's disease. we assessed the functional and structural brain disturbances in wilson's disease (wd) by evoked potentials (eps) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). all the 25 neurologically symptomatic and 44% of the 16 asymptomatic patients, assessed by both eps (n = 48) and imaging (n = 41), had at least 1 abnormality of either prolonged ep conduction times, imaging-outlined presence of cerebral lesions, or brain atrophy. our findings indicate that eps and mri are sensitive techniques for the evaluation of brain involvement in wd.
a phase ii study of combined methotrexate and teniposide infusions prior to reinduction therapy in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a pediatric oncology group study. teniposide (vm-26) can increase intracellular methotrexate (mtx) and its polyglutamate derivatives in vitro and thus has the potential to improve the therapeutic index of regimens containing mtx. in this phase ii study, children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) in first or second marrow relapse were randomly assigned to receive either simultaneous (n = 11) or sequential (n = 12) continuous infusions of mtx and vm-26 prior to reinduction. infusions of vm-26 were begun 12 hours after completion of mtx infusion in the sequential group. dosages were individually adjusted to maintain plasma concentration levels of 10 microns for mtx and 15 microns for vm-26; total infusion times were 24 and 72 hours, respectively. significant toxicity in the first six patients who received the scheduled 72-hour vm-26 infusion (including one drug-related death) prompted a 50% reduction in infusion duration. the reduced dose was associated with similar but more manageable toxicity. examination of bone marrow aspirates 10 days after therapy was begun showed one complete and two partial marrow remissions; a fourth patient who had an aplastic marrow on day 10 received no further chemotherapy and had a complete remission (cr) documented on day 31. there was no obvious clinical advantage associated with either infusion schedule, although small sample sizes preclude definitive conclusions. the 17% response rate to the mtx/vm-26 therapeutic window in patients with refractory disease suggests the need for further investigation to evaluate alternative schedules and concomitant therapy for this drug combination.
neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis. human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever, headache, myalgias, anorexia, and occasionally rash. in our patient, changes in mental status, upper motor neuron signs, cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system. intraleukocytic inclusions, although observed in our case, have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis.
sweet's syndrome: a clinicopathologic review of twenty-nine cases. twenty-nine patients with sweet's syndrome were studied. not all of sweet's original criteria were necessarily present and diagnosis was dependent on the recognition of the typical, acute, tender, erythematous plaques and the characteristic histologic features of a neutrophilic infiltrate with leukocytoclasis. women are affected much more frequently than men. the origin of sweet's syndrome is still unclear, but an underlying disease was found in more than 50% of our cases. a streptococcal infection was evident in six cases, inflammatory bowel disease in three cases, malignancy in four cases, and pregnancy in two others. treatment with oral prednisolone for an average of 6 weeks was the usual treatment, although in four patients the disease cleared spontaneously. resolution of the eruption is occasionally followed by milia and scarring. recurrences are common and affect up to one third of patients.
magnetic resonance angiography of abdominal vessels: early experience using the three-dimensional phase-contrast technique. based on three-dimensional acquisition of three sequences sensitive to one flow-direction, abdominal magnetic resonance phase-contrast angiography (mra) was performed in 13 volunteers and 20 patients. the subjects received no antiperistaltic medication and were allowed to breath normally during the three acquisition periods of 11 minutes. the frequency of demonstration of the normal aorta, superior mesenteric and right and left renal arteries was 100%/100%/91%/100%, and of the inferior vena cava, splenic, superior mesenteric and portal veins was 92%/67%/92%/100%, respectively, whereas other abdominal vessels were seen less constantly. in renal artery stenosis or occlusion, mra detected eight out of nine pathological arteries, missed only a minimal stenosis and was never false positive. in all 10 cases of portal hypertension, mra demonstrated the venous collaterals detected by conventional angiography and in six cases showed more collaterals, particularly paravertebral vessels. a budd-chiari syndrome was investigated as well. if the accuracy of mra can be proved in larger studies, it may become an important diagnostic tool in evaluating abdominal vascular pathology, such as renal artery stenosis or portal hypertension.
results of multiple pulmonary resections for metastatic osteogenic sarcoma after two decades. a 20-year follow-up of children who had complete resection of pulmonary metastases from osteogenic sarcoma of the extremities was undertaken. four of six 10-year survivors survived more than 19 years even with multiple metastases and as many as nine thoracotomies. fifty percent of the 10-year survivors developed second primary cancers during the second decade of follow-up.
pharmacokinetics and clinical experience of 20-h infusions of methohexitone in intensive care patients with postoperative pyrexia. we have studied the pharmacokinetics of 20-h infusions of methohexitone in young patients with postoperative fever undergoing artificial ventilation of the lungs. the infusion rate was adjusted so that patients were unresponsive to vocal stimulation but reacted to tracheal suction. the mean steady state concentration of methohexitone required was 2.6 mg litre-1 (unbound 0.53 mg litre-1). the mean (sd) total clearance of methohexitone was 16.3 (4.2) ml min-1 kg-1, which is greater than that for volunteers or normal surgical patients. the unbound clearance correlated positively with body temperature during the infusion (r = 0.796, p = 0.017). the terminal half-life of methohexitone was 6.3 (3.8) h and that of the 4'-hydroxy metabolite 5.8 (2.1) h. there were no marked haemodynamic effects of the infusion, and no excessive sedation after the infusion. however, the clearance of methohexitone was high and variable, possibly as a direct effect of postoperative fever. consequently, the need for individual titration of the rate of infusion is emphasized.
maximal oxygen uptake in severe aortic regurgitation: a different view of left ventricular function. respiratory gas exchange was used to assess left ventricular (lv) function in 22 patients with severe aortic regurgitation (19 men and three women, aged 18 and 70 years, mean 49 years). anaerobic threshold and symptom-limited maximal oxygen consumption (vo2 max) were measured during treadmill exercise, and the results were compared with conventional echocardiographic and radionuclide indices of lv systolic function. the results were considered with respect to the patients' new york heart association functional class. both rest and exercise lv ejection fractions were variable, but the mean results were similar in all classes. the echocardiographic indices of lv cavity dimensions, fractional shortening, radius/thickness ratio, and systolic wall stress also showed a wide range but with similar mean results in each class. in contrast, vo2 max and anaerobic threshold showed a relationship to functional class. vo2 max was 32.4 +/- 3.4 ml/kg/min in age-matched control subjects; in the patients it was 27.9 +/- 4.7 in class i, 24.7 +/- 5.7 in class ii, and 14.2 +/- 2 in the combined class iii/iv. results in patients in classes i and ii were similar, but both groups were significantly different from control subjects (p less than 0.05) and from patients in class iii/iv (p less than 0.01). about half of the patients with moderate lv dysfunction (judged by reduced vo2 max) were asymptomatic, and lv function was impaired in 4 of 10 patients in class i. thus, unlike conventional indices of lv function, vo2 max appeared capable of distinguishing patients with moderate-to-severe lv dysfunction from those with little or no lv dysfunction. measurement of respiratory gas exchange appears to be a valid and useful supplementary means of assessing lv function in severe aortic regurgitation. further long-term evaluation is required.
analysis of baroreflex control of heart rate in conscious dogs with pacing-induced heart failure. the autonomic components of the baroreflex control of heart rate were evaluated in conscious mongrel dogs before and after 4-6 weeks of ventricular pacing (250 beats/min). arterial baroreflex sensitivity (brs) was determined by the slopes of linear regression of pulse interval versus the preceding systolic arterial pressure in response to bolus injections of either phenylephrine or nitroglycerin. brs was significantly depressed in the heart failure state [nitroglycerin slope, 5.0 +/- 2.7 (mean +/- sd) versus 16.6 +/- 5.1 msec/mm hg, p less than 0.005; phenylephrine slope, 15.0 +/- 14.8 versus 32.0 +/- 26.7 msec/mm hg, p less than 0.005]. there was no depression in brs in dogs that were used as time controls or were acutely paced for 30 minutes. after beta 1-adrenergic blockade with metoprolol, the resting heart rate in the heart failure state was depressed more than in the normal state (-17.0 +/- 5.0% versus -3.2 +/- 3.4%, p less than 0.001). atropine significantly increased resting heart rate more in the normal state than in the heart failure state (115.8 +/- 36.7% versus 25.4 +/- 14.5%, p less than 0.005). thus, dogs in the heart failure state appear to have high resting cardiac sympathetic tone and low resting vagal tone. for nitroglycerin administration, metoprolol depressed brs by 47.6 +/- 26.3% in the normal state and by 63.6 +/- 58.5% in the heart failure state. atropine decreased the brs by 86.7 +/- 7.8% in the normal state and by 39.5 +/- 30.2% in the heart failure state.
alcohol consumption--a risk factor for hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke. purpose: the risks of alcohol consumption and its association with stroke were studied in 621 patients with stroke and 573 control subjects using case-control methods. patients and methods: patients with stroke were subdivided into 193 with subarachnoid hemorrhage, 91 with intracerebral hemorrhage, and 337 with cerebral infarction. data on recent alcohol consumption were obtained by questionnaire in patients with stroke and compared with data from an occupational screening survey in control subjects. results: relative risks, adjusted for confounding variables, exhibited j-shaped associations with increasing levels of alcohol consumption classified into four categories--abstainer, 1 to 90 g, 100 to 390 g, and greater than or equal to 400 g weekly). the individual risks were 1, 0.7, 0.5, and 1.3 for subarachnoid hemorrhage; 1.0, 0.6, 0.5., and 2.5 for intracerebral hemorrhage, and 1.0, 0.6, 0.7, and 2.4 for cerebral infarction for men and women combined. conclusions: the results suggest that low levels of alcohol consumption may have some protective effect upon the cerebral vasculature, whereas heavy consumption predisposes to both hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke.
resection of the superior vena cava for primary lung cancer: 5 years' survival. we describe a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the right lung that required a resection of the superior vena cava combined with a tracheal sleeve pneumonectomy. the superior vena cava was totally replaced with a polytetrafluoroethylene graft with 115 minutes cross-clamping of the superior vena cava. the patient remains healthy and the polytetrafluoroethylene graft remains patent 5 years 4 months after operation.
human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy. a study of liver volume by computed tomography. regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography (ct) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients. liver volumes were measured by abdominal ct 3 days, 10 days, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 1.5 years after resection. of the 17 patients, liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2% +/- 6.7% and 30.6% +/- 12.7% at 3 months and 6 months after resection, respectively. noncirrhotic livers were 28.4% +/- 9.5% and 48.4% +/- 17.8% larger at 3 and 6 months. for cirrhotic livers, the increase was 8.5% +/- 3.6% and 12.9% +/- 4.5%. in five patients with right hepatectomy (65% resection), the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4% +/- 11.7%, 48.0% +/- 16.2% and 95.1% +/- 4.5% at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resection, respectively. in seven patients with right partial hepatectomy (30% to 35% resection), the percentages were 7.4% +/- 3.2%, 21.8% +/- 8.4%, and 63.9% +/- 18.3% and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy (15% resection), they were 15.6% +/- 8.2%, 27.8% +/- 12.2%, and 33.0% +/- 14.5% 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resections, respectively. noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers. complete regeneration took about 1 year. the noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume.
use of autologous blood in total hip replacement. a comprehensive program. we evaluated the effectiveness of a comprehensive program for the use of autologous blood in reduction of the need for transfusion of homologous blood in total hip replacement in a prospective study of a consecutive series of patients. transfusion of homologous blood was minimized through transfusion of preoperatively deposited autologous blood, intraoperative and postoperative salvage of washed red blood cells, and use of the clinical condition of the patient as the sole criterion for transfusion of non-autologous blood, regardless of the hematocrit. the cases of 143 patients who had had 154 primary total hip replacements were studied. one hundred and forty-three procedures were done on patients who had not been prevented from donating blood for medical reasons, and 93 per cent of these 143 procedures were performed with the availability of one to five units of preoperatively deposited autologous blood. the patients predeposited an average of 2.6 units of blood for each procedure. ninety-two per cent of the procedures for which autologous blood had been predeposited were performed without transfusion of homologous blood. in the entire group of patients, almost 90 per cent of the transfused blood was autologous blood. intraoperative salvage of red blood cells was successful in 148 procedures, and salvage was continued in the recovery room for all of these patients. an average of 408 milliliters of red blood cells was saved and reinfused, and this was 28 per cent of the average total loss of blood (1435 milliliters) for this series of procedures.
intraventricular diamorphine via an ommaya shunt for intractable cancer pain. we describe two patients in whom diamorphine was administered into the intraventricular space via an ommaya reservoir, producing excellent pain relief. the use of this technique for long term administration of analgesia is reviewed.
emergent signs of cancer. recognizing them early in the office or er. primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer. this task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific. in most cases, therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point. thus, physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients, such as superior vena cava syndrome, malignant pericardial effusion, spinal-epidural metastasis, and altered mentation from brain metastases, metabolic encephalopathy, or hypoglycemia.
methionine dependency of malignant tumors: a possible approach for therapy when methionine (met), an essential amino acid, was substituted for by its precursor homocysteine (hcy) in the culture medium, normal cells such as fibroblasts proliferated normally. in contrast, many tumor cells failed to grow or grew at a lower rate. met dependency is acquired simultaneously with cell transformation, as observed with hbl 100, a human mammary epithelial cell line that acquired increased malignancy as a function of in vitro passage number, and nih/3t3 (j10), a mouse fibroblast line transformed by transfection with the human hras oncogene. a relationship was observed between met dependency and metastatic potential of the rms-21, rms-s4t, and rms-j1 sublines derived from rms-0, a rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line: the higher the metastatic potential of the cell line, the higher the concentration of met required to maintain its proliferation. met-independent cells derived from the rms-0 line, obtained by a progressive decrease of met in the culture medium lost their tumorigenicity when injected into rats fed with met-deprived diets. in addition, the in vitro motility of rms-s4t tumor cells, a marker of metastatic capability, decreased in met-free hcy-complemented (met- hcy+) medium. similarly, rms-0 tumor cells, preincubated in a met- hcy+ culture medium for 24 hours, evidenced a decreased capacity to form lung colonies when injected into syngeneic rats: the median number of lung colonies was 27 and 3 (p less than .05) for cells cultivated in met+ hcy- and met- hcy+ media, respectively. an amino acid-defined mixture reproducing casein composition was used as a protein source in the diets fed to rms-j1 tumor-bearing rats. dietary substitution of hcy for met (i.e., met deprivation) resulted in decreased tumor growth (from 44.4 +/- 1.0 to 40.6 +/- 1.4; p less than .05) and prevention of metastatic spread (from 37 to 0; p less than .05). in conclusion, exogenous met can be substituted for hcy to maintain the survival of normal cells but is essential for tumor cell growth in vivo as well as in vitro. therefore, this defect of cancerous versus normal cells could be used for a therapeutic purpose.
association of expression between n-myc gene and major histocompatibility complex class i gene in surgically resected human neuroblastoma. amplification of the n-myc gene in neuroblastoma correlates with advanced stage and poor prognosis. association of the expression between n-myc and major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i genes in 33 neuroblastomas obtained from japanese children was investigated. amplification of the n-myc gene was observed in two of five cases in stage iii, six of 11 cases in stage iv, and one of five cases in stage iv-s. in each case, the expression of n-myc gene was significantly increased. the expression was also increased in cases without amplification of the n-myc gene, the origin being from the suprarenal region. expression of the mhc class i gene was significantly decreased in five of these nine with a high level of n-myc expression with amplification. these results suggest that the down-modulation of the mhc class i expression may be associated with the high level of expression and amplification of n-myc gene in the advanced stage of neuroblastoma.
early development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias and response fluctuations in young-onset parkinson's disease. we evaluated whether patients with young-onset parkinson's disease (pd) (onset between 21 and 40 years) develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor response fluctuations more frequently and earlier than patients with older-onset pd (onset after 40 years) by determining the period from levodopa introduction to development of dyskinesias or fluctuations in 25 young-onset (mean age at onset, 33.54 years) and in 25 matched older-onset pd patients (mean age at onset, 55.76 years). young-onset pd patients had significantly higher frequency for both dyskinesias and fluctuations after both 3 and 5 years of levodopa. young-onset pd patients also developed both levodopa-induced dyskinesias and fluctuations earlier than older-onset pd patients. we suggest that the introduction of levodopa therapy in patients with young onset pd should be postponed as long as possible.
sensitivity of exercise electrocardiography for acute cardiac events during moderate and strenuous physical activity. the lipid research clinics coronary primary prevention trial. we determined whether the exercise electrocardiogram predicted acute cardiac events during moderate or strenuous physical activity among 3617 asymptomatic, hypercholesterolemic men (age range, 35 to 59 years) who were followed up in the coronary primary prevention trial. submaximal exercise test results were obtained at entry and at annual follow-up visits in years 2 through 7. st-segment depression or elevation (greater than or equal to 1 mm or 10 microv-sec) was considered to be a positive test result. the circumstances that surrounded each nonfatal myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease death were determined through a record review. the cumulative incidence of activity-related acute cardiac events was 2% during a mean follow-up period of 7.4 years. the risk was increased 2.6-fold in the presence of clinically silent, exercise-induced, st-segment changes at entry (95% confidence interval [cl], 1.3 to 5.2) after adjustment for 11 other potential risk factors. of 62 men who experienced an activity-related event, 11 had a positive test result at entry (sensitivity, 18%; 95% cl, 8 to 27). the specificity of the entry exercise test was 92% (95% cl, 91 to 93). the sensitivity and specificity were similar when the length of follow-up was restricted to 1 year after testing. for a newly positive test result on a follow-up visit, the sensitivity was 24% (95% cl, 12 to 36), and the specificity was 85% (95% cl, 84 to 86); for any positive test result during the study (mean number of tests per subject, 6.2), the sensitivity was 37% (95% cl, 25 to 49), and the specificity was 79% (95% cl, 77 to 80). our findings suggested that the presence of clinically silent, exercise-induced, ischemic st-segment changes on a submaximal test was associated with an increased risk of activity-related acute cardiac events. however, this test was not sensitive when used to predict the occurrence of activity-related events among asymptomatic, hypercholesterolemic men. for this reason, the utility of the submaximal exercise test to assess the safety of physical activity among asymptomatic men at risk of coronary heart disease is likely to be limited.
development of antibodies to thrombin and factor v with recurrent bleeding in a patient exposed to topical bovine thrombin. a 65 year old patient who was exposed to topical bovine thrombin during cardiac surgery developed markedly prolonged clotting times and a severe bleeding diathesis. mixing studies with normal plasma failed to correct the clotting times. platelet transfusions, immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies were ineffective, but plasmapheresis was effective in decreasing clotting times and in the resolution of clinical bleeding events. the patient's purified igg reacted with bovine thrombin by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). however, the igg reacted minimally with human thrombin. in view of the severe bleeding, a coexisting inhibitor was sought. the patient's factor v activity was 1% of normal and was not corrected by mixing with normal plasma, demonstrating the presence of an inhibitor against factor v. the patient's igg reacted with both bovine and human factor v. immunoblotting localized the site of antibody binding to the light chain of activated bovine factor v. detectable amounts of bovine factor v were found in commercial bovine thrombin preparations by elisa. the data suggest that patients exposed to topical bovine thrombin may develop antibodies to thrombin and factor v. anti-thrombin antibodies may mask coexisting factor v inhibitors responsible for clinical bleeding.
down-regulation of a calmodulin-related gene during transformation of human mammary epithelial cells. a human cdna library obtained from cultured normal mammary epithelial cells (hmecs) was searched by subtractive hybridization for genes whose decrease in expression might be relevant to epithelial transformation. one clone identified by this procedure corresponded to a 1.4-kilobase mrna, designated nb-1, whose expression was decreased greater than 50-fold in hmecs tumorigenically transformed in vitro after exposure to benzo[a]pyrene and kirsten sarcoma virus. sequence analysis of nb-1 cdna revealed an open reading frame with a high degree of homology to calmodulin. nb-1 expression could be demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction amplification in normal breast, prostate, cervix, and epidermal tissues. the presence of nb-1 transcripts was variable in primary breast carcinoma tissues and undetectable in tumor-derived cell lines of breast, prostate, or other origins. nb-1 mrna expression could be down-regulated in cultured hmecs by exposure to reconstituted extracellular matrix material, while exposure to transforming growth factor type beta increased its relative abundance. the protein encoded by nb-1 may have ca2+ binding properties and perform functions similar to those of authentic calmodulin. its possible roles in differentiation and/or suppression of tumorigenicity in epithelial tissues remain to be examined.
the importance of anatomic site in prognosis in patients with cutaneous melanoma. to determine the prognostic relevance of the anatomic site of origin of cutaneous melanoma to survival, we retrospectively analyzed a computerized database of 3428 patients with stage i and ii cutaneous melanoma. patients were stratified by the recognized prognostic variables of stage of disease, clark's level of invasion of the primary lesion, and the nodal involvement at the time of lymphadenectomy. melanoma arising in skin of the upper part of the back, back of the arms, neck, and scalp (bans) region occurred more frequently in male than female patients. there were no statistically significant differences in the distribution of clark's level of invasion of bans and non-bans region primary melanomas or in the extent of nodal involvement in patients with stage ii disease. the 5-year actuarial survival of patients with stage i bans region melanomas was 87%; stage i non-bans, 89%; stage ii bans, 38%; and stage ii non-bans, 69%. the bans region appears to have prognostic significance in cutaneous melanoma and, particularly, in patients with stage ii melanoma.
intracranial arachnoid cysts in children. a comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting. the best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy. recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent. the cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported. five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention. of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration, 10 (67%) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal (eight patients) or ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunting (one patient), or revision of a vp shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration (one patient). two other patients with existing vp shunts required no further procedures. thus, only three (20%) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years. the 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively; shunt revision has been necessary in six (30%) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence. cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision, but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable. in all locations, though, shunting was more successful than fenestration. it is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-vp shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations, including those in the middle cranial fossa.
ubiquitin hybrid protein gene expression during human colon cancer progression. ubiquitin is involved in cell-cycle control and dna replication through a specific proteolytic pathway. our previous studies demonstrated selected higher expression of a gene encoding ubiquitin-ribosomal protein s27a in poorly differentiated colon carcinoma cell lines. in this study, we evaluated this ubiquitin hybrid protein gene expression in surgical specimens of colon cancers. northern blot analysis showed that ubiquitin hybrid protein messenger rna was overexpressed in primary colon cancers compared with adjacent normal colon mucosae in 17 of 20 patients. dot blot analysis of rna of 27 tumor samples revealed significantly greater expression in higher dukes' stage primary colon tumors and liver metastases. these data imply that protein translation machinery is highly activated during progression and metastasis of colon tumors, and that ubiquitin hybrid protein may be useful as a marker of biological aggressiveness.
fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcer. in order to characterize the fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcers, we examined tissue specimens of patients with active duodenal ulcer disease (n = 30) before and after treatment with either antacids (n = 16) or h2-receptor antagonists (n = 14), by light microscopy and various electron microscopic techniques, e.g., scanning and transmission electron microscopy. the characteristic histological feature of both the active and healed duodenal ulcer was the appearance of periodic acid-schiff (pas)-positive epithelial cells at the edge of the ulcers. electron microscopy revealed that these cells were similar to a special type of mucus-secreting cell in the antrum (surface mucous cell). their mucus granules contained mainly neutral glycoproteins. helicobacter pylori were found attached to these cells in tissue specimens from 12 of 30 patients (40%). the mucous structure destroyed during the ulcerative phase regained its normal net-like structure after treatment. the ultrastructural healing process of duodenal ulcer was characterized by the presence of gastric metaplasia, by stunted microvilli of the duodenal epithelium (p less than 0.001 vs. control group), and an increased number of lysosome-like bodies (p less than 0.001 vs. control group) of the epithelial cells. these results were independent of the type of treatment, and showed that the repair mechanisms were incomplete after a 4-wk period of treatment.
the role of the mast cell in clinical gastrointestinal disease with special reference to systemic mastocytosis. the gastrointestinal tract is a rich source of mast cells with an enormous surface area that permits a high degree of interaction between the mast cell and intestinal luminal contents. the active metabolic products of the mast cell influence gastrointestinal secretion, absorption, and motility through paracrine effects of local mast cell degranulation and also cause systemic effects through the release of cellular products into the blood stream. systemic mastocytosis influences physiologic function through the systemic effects of mast cell products released from focal (e.g., bone marrow) or wide spread increases in mast cell number. local gastrointestinal proliferation of mast cells in response to recognized (e.g., gluten in celiac sprue) or obscure stimuli can alter gastrointestinal function and induce systemic symptoms. celiac sprue, inflammatory bowel disease, and non-ulcer dyspepsia are three examples of gastrointestinal diseases in which mast cells can be implicated in the pathophysiology of the symptoms.
risk of angina pectoris and plasma concentrations of vitamins a, c, and e and carotene the relation between risk of angina pectoris and plasma concentrations of vitamins a, c, and e and carotene was examined in a population case-control study of 110 cases of angina, identified by the chest pain questionnaire, and 394 controls selected from a sample of 6000 men aged 35-54. plasma concentrations of vitamins c and e and carotene were significantly inversely related to the risk of angina. there was no significant relation with vitamin a. smoking was a confounding factor. the inverse relation between angina and low plasma carotene disappeared and that with plasma vitamin c was substantially reduced after adjustment for smoking. vitamin e remained independently and inversely related to the risk of angina after adjustment for age, smoking habit, blood pressure, lipids, and relative weight. the adjusted odds ratio for angina between the lowest and highest quintiles of vitamin e concentrations was 2.68 (95% confidence interval 1.07-6.70; p = 0.02). these findings suggest that some populations with a high incidence of coronary heart disease may benefit from eating diets rich in natural antioxidants, particularly vitamin e.
atelectasis affects the rate of arterial desaturation during obstructive apnea. chronic hemodynamic disturbances are more profound in patients with obstructive sleep apnea when underlying lung disease with abnormal gas exchange (low arterial po2) is present. previous studies suggest that pulmonary gas exchange could influence the rate of fall of arterial oxygen saturation (dsao2/dt) in obstructive sleep apnea. we postulated that abnormal gas exchange in the form of atelectasis would steepen dsao2/dt and thereby lower nadir arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation (sao2) for the same duration of apnea. apneas were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at end expiration in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons. apneas of the same duration were then repeated during temporary endobronchial occlusion of one lobe of the lung. sao2 and mixed venous o2 saturation were continuously monitored, and cardiac output was calculated. worsening of pulmonary gas exchange during atelectasis was documented by an increase in calculated venous admixture from 10.5 +/- 0.8 to 25.0 +/- 0.7% (p less than 0.001). the dsao2/dt was independent of apnea duration at 30, 45, and 60 s. during endobronchial occlusion, apnea dsao2/dt increased 20%, and nadir sao2 was significantly lower. possible mechanisms for steepening of dsao2/dt during atelectasis are discussed.
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities. current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist. placental vascular lesions, placental tumors, and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management. an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location, size, echogenicity, and number is proposed. repeated ultrasonographic examination, together with biologic investigations, is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance.
modulation of neurogenic inflammation by neutral endopeptidase. the enzyme neutral endopeptidase (nep) is bound to the membranes of selected cells in the airways that have receptors for tachykinins. the location of the enzyme, along with its selectivity of substrates (tachykinins are a preferred substrate), allows the enzyme to cleave tachykinins that come close to the cell-surface receptors. by cleaving and thus inactivating tachykinins released during stimulation of the sensory nerves, nep limits the degree of neurogenic inflammation. neutral endopeptidase exists in the basal cells of the airway epithelium, nerves, smooth muscle, glands, blood vessels, and perhaps other cells. thus, the enzyme modulates smooth muscle contraction, gland secretion, cough, vascular permeability, and neutrophil adhesion. decreased nep activity occurs with epithelial removal, during respiratory viral infections, and during exposure to irritants (e.g., cigarette smoke and toluene diisocyanate). delivery of recombinant nep (rnep) by aerosol suppressed cough responses during neurogenic inflammation. we suggest that decreased nep activity will result in exaggerated neurogenic inflammation and may play an important role in inflammatory diseases in airways. furthermore, drugs that cause up-regulation of nep may play a therapeutic role by suppressing neurogenic responses. replacement therapy with rnep may be useful in diseases where inflammatory peptides (e.g., tachykinins, bradykinin) play a role in pathogenesis.
down-regulation of lfa-1 adhesion receptors by c-myc oncogene in human b lymphoblastoid cells. the function of the c-myc gene and its role in tumorigenesis are poorly understood. in order to elucidate the role of c-myc oncogene activation in b cell malignancy, the phenotypic changes caused by the expression of c-myc oncogenes in human b lymphoblastoid cells immortalized by epstein-barr virus were analyzed. c-myc oncogenes caused the down-regulation of lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (lfa-1) adhesion molecules (alpha l/beta 2 integrin) and loss of homotypic b cell adhesion in vitro. down-regulation of lfa-1 occurred by (i) posttranscriptional modulation of lfa-1 alpha l-chain rna soon after acute c-myc induction, and (ii) transcriptional modulation in cells that chronically express c-myc oncogenes. analogous reductions in lfa-1 expression were detectable in burkitt lymphoma cells carrying activated c-myc oncogenes. since lfa-1 is involved in b cell adhesion to cytotoxic t cells, natural killer cells, and vascular endothelium, these results imply functions for c-myc in normal b cell development and lymphomagenesis.
central odontogenic fibroma: clinicopathologic features of 19 cases and review of the literature. the odontogenic fibroma is a benign neoplasm infrequently reported in the literature (20 cases). nineteen additional examples are reported. this lesion occurs most frequently in the maxilla anterior to the molars and displays a striking female predilection. on occasion, it may be associated with an unerupted mandibular third molar. histomorphologically, it is not encapsulated. a spectrum of fibrous connective tissue stroma is present: from myxoid to densely hyalinized and from relatively acellular to cellular. calcification may or may not be present. it is distinguished by the presence of sparse cords and islands of inactive odontogenic epithelium. enucleation or surgical curettage is appropriate therapy and recurrence is low. as there appears to be no correlation of histologic pattern with clinical behavior, it seems unnecessary to try to separate the tumor into two variants.
total unilateral lung gangrene in hodgkin's disease: treatment by thoracostomy. total gangrene of the left lung developed in a 30-year-old male patient with a pulmonary recurrence of hodgkin's disease after mediastinal irradiation and chemotherapy. clinically, tension pyopneumothorax and severe septic shock were present. surgical repair was done by thoracostomy, resecting three ribs. a 2 x 0.5-cm hole in the necrotic wall of the left main bronchus was covered with an intercostal muscle bundle. the necrotic pleural surfaces were treated openly by daily change of dressings. the patient recovered satisfactorily and underwent four further courses of chemotherapy without any complications.
the prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease. this case report describes the use of octreotide, a long-acting somatostatin analogue, in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease. this patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication. anaesthesia was induced with midazolam, fentanyl, and vecuronium, and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium. however, we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively, and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery.
anaesthetic management of a 2-month-old infant for laser resection of vocal cord granuloma. a 2-month-old infant underwent excision of granulomata of vocal cords with a carbon dioxide laser. high frequency jet ventilation was given through a surgical metal suction tube during the operation. the anaesthetic technique for the infant and the problems of the use of carbon dioxide laser in laryngeal surgery are discussed.
noninvasive detection of patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular fibrillation. abnormalities in the fast fourier transforms of signal-averaged electrocardiograms (ecgs) obtained during sinus rhythm appear to distinguish patients with ischemic heart disease and sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from those without ventricular tachycardia. this study was performed to determine the power of frequency analysis to detect patients with a history of ventricular fibrillation, to determine the extent to which spectra of signal-averaged ecgs from patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease are comparable and to compare results of signal-averaged ecg analysis in patients with ventricular fibrillation with results of programmed ventricular stimulation. signal-averaged ecgs were obtained during sinus rhythm from 60 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia (group i) and 34 patients with ventricular fibrillation (group ii). results of signal-averaged ecg analysis were abnormal in 92% of patients with ventricular tachycardia and 85% of patients with ventricular fibrillation (p = ns). abnormal spectra were detected in the signal-averaged ecgs from 90% of patients with ischemic and from 86% of patients with nonischemic heart disease (p = ns). in contrast, the results of programmed stimulation differed markedly between the two patient groups. sustained ventricular arrhythmias were induced in 91% of the patients with ventricular tachycardia compared with only 46% of those with ventricular fibrillation (p less than 0.0001). moreover, ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 81% of patients with ischemic heart disease compared with only 50% of those with nonischemic heart disease (p less than 0.02). thus, abnormalities in the spectra of signal-averaged ecgs were found in the majority of patients with ventricular fibrillation and were detectable even in those whose arrhythmia was not inducible by programmed stimulation. these results broaden the potential clinical application of noninvasive interrogation of signal-averaged ecgs to include the prospective identification of patients with ischemic or nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
bone marrow stromal cell changes in haematological malignancies. stromal cell numbers from subjects with no haematological disease and those with acute myeloid leukaemia (aml), chronic granulocytic leukaemia (cgl), acute lymphatic leukaemia (all) and non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) were compared to determine their role in malignancy. frozen sections of trephine biopsy specimens from iliac crests were stained for endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity, endogenous acid phosphatase activity, and, using immunocytochemical methods, for endothelial cells (anti-factor-viii related antigen) and macrophages and related cells (ebm/11). in granulocytic malignancies, whether acute or chronic, alkaline phosphatase positive reticulum cells (al-rc) and vascular endothelial cells were generally increased. in lymphoid malignancies, the numbers of al-rc were generally reduced. numbers of vascular endothelial cells seemed to be normal in all but reduced in foci of nhl. macrophages are numerous in normal marrow, and their numbers seemed to be normal in granulocytic lesions but were more variable and sometimes reduced in all and nhl. lymphoid malignancies, therefore, have a destructive effect on some stromal elements; granulocytic malignancies are associated with normal or increased numbers of stromal cells. a possible consequence of depleted stromal cells might be slower reconstitution of normal haemopoiesis after treatment. the large numbers in granulocytic malignancies raises the possibility of synergistic stimulation between stromal and neoplastic cells.
experience with the sarns centrifugal pump as a ventricular assist device. the authors used the sarns centrifugal pump (sarns 3m, ann arbor, mi) as a ventricular assist device (vad) in 30 patients between may 1985 and february 1990. sixteen patients were unweanable from cardiopulmonary bypass at the time of surgery; nine were patients who developed cardiogenic shock postoperatively in the intensive care unit. one was a donor organ failure; one had a failed ptca; and one an acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock preoperatively. two patients were bridged to cardiac transplantation. of the 28 nontransplant candidates, 20 (71.4%) were weaned successfully, 14 (50%) were discharged from the hospital, and 13 (46%) are alive from 1 to 46 months postoperatively (mean, 21.1 months). three patients received right ventricular support alone; all three were weaned, and two (66.7%) were discharged. ten patients received left ventricular assistance alone. six (60%) were weaned, and four (40%) were discharged. two patients received left ventricular support initially but were taken back for right vad insertion because of right-sided heart failure; one (50%) is alive. fifteen patients received biventricular support. eleven (77.3%) were weaned, and eight (53.3%) were discharged. patient ages ranged from 19 to 73 years, with a mean age for men of 59 years and 50.5 years for women. there were no thromboembolic events. various clinical parameters were evaluated to determine effect on weanability and survival. these results show survival equivalent to any other vad at this time. the centrifugal pump is a convenient and effective means of maintaining ventricular support in individuals who are believed to have salvageable myocardium.
retrovirus-induced spongiform myeloencephalopathy in mice: regional distribution of infected target cells and neuronal loss occurring in the absence of viral expression in neurons. the cas-br-e murine leukemia virus (mulv) induces a spongiform myeloencephalopathy resulting in a progressive hindlimb paralysis. we have used in situ hybridization with a cas-br-e mulv-specific probe to study viral expression in the central nervous system. infected cells were concentrated in regions where spongiform lesions and gliosis are detected (lumbosacral spinal cord, brainstem, deep cerebellar regions), suggesting a causative link between the level of virus expression and the degree of pathological changes in this disease. however, viral expression was not in itself sufficient to cause disease, since significant viral expression was observed in regions that did not exhibit pathological changes (cerebellar cortex, hippocampus, corpus callosum, peripheral nervous system). in both diseased and nondiseased regions, endothelial and glial cells were identified as the main target cells. neurons in diseased regions did not show viral expression. the regional distribution of the spongiform changes appears to be laid down very early following infection, since expression could be detected at 10 days postinfection in regions that become diseased. these results indicate that nonneuronal cells have distinct properties in various regions of the central nervous system and suggest an indirect mechanism of neuronal loss consequent to viral expression in nonneuronal cells.
use of quinapril in the elderly patient. quinapril hydrochloride is a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor that has been extensively tested and found effective when administered once-a-day to hypertensive patients of both sexes and all degrees of hypertension and cardiac compromise, including those with left ventricular hypertrophy, with and without congestive heart failure. observations with earlier ace inhibitors led to reports that this class of drugs was relatively ineffective in older hypertensive patients. to ascertain the role of quinapril (greater than or equal to 10 mg/day) in older patients, its blood pressure-lowering effects in 1,175 hypertensive patients less than or equal to 65 years of age were compared with those in 304 patients greater than 65 years of age. an excellent response was observed in patients greater than 65 years of age with mild to moderate hypertension (diastolic bp, 95 to 105 mm hg) and moderate to severe hypertension (diastolic bp, 106 to 115 mm hg). the reductions in blood pressure achieved with quinapril were at least comparable to those obtained in the younger hypertensives, and were numerically (but not statistically) greater in the mild to moderate group (-14 mm hg v-12 mm hg). in addition, the percentage of patients who experienced adverse experiences was lower in the greater than 65 group than in the less than or equal to 65 group (15% v 19%). the main adverse experiences reported included dizziness, headache, cough, fatigue, and hypotension. these findings indicate that quinapril is at least as safe and effective in older hypertensives as in younger patients.
neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radical surgery in locally advanced cervical cancer. prognostic factors for response and survival. between january 1986 and september 1988, 75 patients with locally advanced cervical carcinoma (international federation of gynecology and obstetrics [figo] stages ib-iii) received three courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac), including cisplatin, bleomycin, and methotrexate (pbm). fifteen percent of patients achieved a complete response (cr) and 68% a partial response (pr). pretreatment characteristics were analyzed for response to nac. significantly lower response rates were found in patients with tumor size more than 5 cm in diameter and bilateral parametrial involvement to the pelvic side wall. none of the biological parameters studied was related to chemoresponsiveness. patients achieving cr or pr had a significantly improved 3-year survival rate compared with those who did not respond. after nac, radical surgery was possible in all responding patients. the median number of lymph nodes removed was 60. a lower than expected incidence of lymph node metastases was detected. none of the clinical and pathologic features considered was significantly correlated with the lymph node status. twelve of the 62 operated patients had disease recurrence. pathologic parametrial involvement and cervical infiltration equal to or deeper than 5 mm were found to be significant prognostic factors for recurrence. a 3-year, disease-free survival of 89%, 73%, and 43% for stage ib-iia, iib, and iii, respectively, was found. among the operated patients these rates increased to 100%, 81%, and 66% for stage ib-iia, iib, and iii, respectively. a prospective randomized trial comparing nac and surgery with radiotherapy alone is in progress.
increase in incidence of disease due to diagnostic drift: primary liver cancer in denmark, 1943-85. objective--to examine the extent to which changes in diagnostic methods and classification are responsible for the striking increase in incidence of primary liver cancer in denmark since 1943. design--analysis of the time trends in sex specific, age standardised incidence of primary liver cancer and unspecified liver cancer (either secondary without known primary cancer or not specified as primary cancer) in the entire population from 1943 to 1985. by review of the 727 notifications from three periods of 5 years (1948-52, 1963-7, and 1978-82) the changes in histological diagnosis and classification were assessed. setting--denmark. subjects--notifications of liver cancer to the danish cancer registry. results--concomitant with the increase in primary liver cancer, the incidence of the unspecified liver cancer declined. the proportion of histologically diagnosed primary liver cancer rose from 85% to 98%, whereas the proportion for unspecified liver cancer rose from 12% to 51%. when the proportion of primary versus unspecified liver cancer obtained by histological diagnosis was extrapolated to all cases, the annual incidence of primary liver cancer was 4.4 rather than 1.6 per 100,000 population in 1948-52 and 6.0 rather than 5.5 per 100,000 in 1978-82. conclusion--the increase in the incidence of primary liver cancer may be much smaller than the numbers of registered cases indicate. this example emphasises the need to consider diagnostic drift in time trend studies of disease incidence.
effect of increasing helicobacter pylori ammonia production by urea infusion on plasma gastrin concentrations. it has been proposed that the hypergastrinaemia in subjects with helicobacter pylori infection is caused by the action of the ammonia produced by the organism's urease activity on the antral g cells. to investigate this hypothesis we examined the effect on plasma gastrin of increasing the bacterium's ammonia production by infusing urea intragastrically to eight h pylori positive duodenal ulcer patients. after a 60 minute control intragastric infusion of dextrose solution at 2 ml/minute, a similar infusion containing urea (50 mmol/l) was continued for four hours. during the urea infusion, the median gastric juice urea concentration rose from 1.1 mmol/l (range 0.3-1.6) to 15.5 mmol/l (range 7.9-21.3) and this resulted in an increase in the ammonium concentration from 2.3 mmol/l (range 1.3-5.9) to 6.1 mmol/l (range 4.2-11.9) (p less than 0.01). this appreciable rise in ammonia production did not result in any change in the plasma gastrin concentration. the experiment was repeated one month after eradication of h pylori, at which time the median basal gastrin was 20 ng/l (range 15-25), significantly less than the value before eradication (30 ng/l range 15-60) (p less than 0.05). on this occasion, the gastric juice ammonium concentration was considerably reduced at 0.4 mmol/l (range 0.1-0.9) and the urea infusion did not raise the ammonium concentration or change the plasma gastrin concentration. in conclusion, augmenting h pylori ammonia production does not cause any early change in plasma gastrin.
audiometric and subjective assessment of hearing handicap. this study compares self-perceived assessment of hearing handicap with audiometrically derived measures of hearing handicap in a sample of elderly persons. subjects were evaluated by traditional audiometric tests, the speech perception in noise test, and the hearing handicap inventory for the elderly, a self-assessment questionnaire. hearing handicap was also calculated by the audiometrically derived american academy of otolaryngology (1979) method. our results are consistent with other studies that indicate a low correspondence between audiometric measures of hearing handicap and self-assessment of hearing handicap. furthermore, if the hearing handicap inventory for the elderly is considered the true measure of hearing handicap, our data indicate that the american academy of otolaryngology method tends to overestimate handicap among persons with no self-perceived hearing handicap and underestimates handicap among persons with significant self-perceived hearing handicap.
normalization of doppler indices of diastolic dysfunction during pacing is a sign of ischemic mitral regurgitation. twenty-three patients with angina who were undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization underwent cardiac pacing with simultaneous hemodynamic and doppler echocardiographic evaluation to assess the effects of pacing-induced ischemic on mitral valve velocity. seventeen patients had significant coronary artery disease, and six patients had normal coronary arteries. doppler and hemodynamic measurements were performed at rest and immediately after pacing was discontinued to 91% +/- 7% of maximal predicted heart rate. seven patients experienced new or significant increases in severity of mitral regurgitation after pacing as revealed by doppler examination. this group had a significant increase (p = 0.007) in early but not in late peak filling velocities immediately after pacing was discontinued, with a resultant decrease in late to early ratios, which decreased from 1.01% +/- 0.12 to 0.70% +/- 0.19 (p = 0.006). left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased significantly from 16.7% +/- 6.8 mm hg to 29.4% +/- 5.3 mm hg after cardiac pacing (p less than 0.001). patients with coronary disease who did not develop mitral regurgitation also had significant increases in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 18.7% +/- 5.8 mm hg to 24.3% +/- 8.6 mm hg (p less than 0.05). there were no changes in late or early wave amplitude, late to early ratio, or other doppler measurements in any of the other groups. we conclude that mitral regurgitation caused by pacing-induced myocardial ischemia normalizes doppler indices of mitral inflow, which in turn, may mask persistent or worsened left ventricular diastolic dysfunction.
induction of cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes by pedal subcutaneous administration of interleukin-2 in patients with renal cancer. the authors attempted to increase the cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes in ten patients with renal cell carcinoma by administration of recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) into the subcutaneous tissue of the instep. a total of 5000 to 21,000 units was given over 3 to 12 preoperative days. mononuclear cells separated from the lymph nodes excised from the renal hilum at surgery served as the effector cells. fresh autologous tumor cells and three cultured cell lines, k562, raji, and achn, served as the target cells. cytotoxicity was measured by a chromium-releasing assay. the results showed that the mononuclear cells from the lymph nodes of the patients given il-2 became cytotoxic to all target cells. surface markers of lymphocytes in the lymph nodes were unchanged. peripheral blood lymphocytes showed increased cytotoxicity only against raji cells. adverse effects were mild or moderate and included local redness, high fever, liver dysfunction, and toxic erythema.
nipple discharge in women. is it cause for concern? nipple discharge is one of the most common breast complaints in women. galactorrhea (milky discharge) may occur during pregnancy or breast-feeding or as a result of drug therapy, hypothyroidism, or hyperthyroidism. nonbloody discharge is most common and is usually benign. bloody discharge should be considered a sign of cancer until proved otherwise. persistent galactorrhea and nonbloody discharge can be treated by transecting the mammary ducts. simple mastectomy may be appropriate in patients with persistent bloody discharge who have a strong family history of breast cancer.
antibodies to synthetic peptide (125-148) of the alpha-subunit of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis. we measured the amount of antibodies to a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the alpha-subunit residues lys125-thr148 of human acetylcholine receptor (achr) in myasthenic sera. we detected anti-peptide antibodies in 52% (89/171) of the patients with myasthenia gravis (mg), but none in any of the healthy controls. anti-peptide antibodies should provide a valuable immunologic parameter for the clinical evaluation of mg, but no apparent correlation was observed between the titers of anti-peptide and anti-achr antibodies.
increased arterial adrenaline is related to pain in uncomplicated myocardial infarction. plasma levels of catecholamines, beta-thromboglobulin (btg) and arginine vasopressin (avp), and degree of pain were examined in 22 patients with suspected uncomplicated myocardial infarction within 24 h following onset of chest pain. sixteen patients developed infarction with peak creatine phosphokinase at 1280 ul-1 (range 293-3770 ul-1). fifteen healthy men served as controls (c). arterial adrenaline levels were significantly higher in patients with pain (1.15 +/- 0.23 nmol l-1, n = 8, mean value +/- sem) than in those without pain (0.60 +/- 0.10 nmol l-1, n = 14, p less than 0.05). plasma catecholamines were moderately but significantly elevated in myocardial infarction; the concentration of arterial adrenaline was 0.83 +/- 0.14 nmol l-1 and that of arterial noradrenaline was 2.70 +/- 0.28 nmol l-1 compared with 0.44 +/- 0.04 nmol l-1 (p less than 0.025) and 1.47 +/- 0.05 nmol l-1 (p less than 0.0005), respectively, in c. one week later, plasma catecholamines had returned to baseline levels. plasma btg showed borderline elevation (1.0 +/- 0.1 pmol l-1) compared with c (0.6 +/- 0.1 pmol l-1, p = 0.04), and remained unchanged 1 week later. plasma avp was at baseline level. uncomplicated myocardial infarction, regardless of size, was associated with only moderately increased sympathetic tone. plasma adrenaline was related more to the degree of pain than to the presence of acute myocardial infarction. arterial adrenaline may be a sensitive marker of sympatho-adrenal activity related to pain.
gastroduodenal mucosal prostaglandin generation in patients with helicobacter pylori before and after treatment with bismuth subsalicylate. to determine whether helicobacter pylori has an effect on gastroduodenal mucosal prostaglandin generation, mucosal biopsies were obtained from the gastric body, antrum, and duodenal bulb of 30 patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for clinical indications. one biopsy from the gastric body and one from the antrum were tested for urease activity (urea broth) and one biopsy from each area including the duodenum was processed for histology. two other biopsies form each area were incubated and the accumulation of prostaglandin e2 and 6-keto prostaglandin f1 alpha in the incubation medium was measured by radioimmunoassay. twelve of the 17 h. pylori-positive patients and seven of the 13 h. pylori-negative patients agreed to take bismuth subsalicylate (pepto-bismol) two tablets four times a day for four weeks. one week after treatment, these patients again underwent endoscopy and the above studies. this study indicates that: (1) mucosal pge2 generation may be increased in the duodenum, gastric body, and antrum in h. pylori-positive patients compared to h. pylori-negative patients, and (2) treatment with bismuth subsalicylate for four weeks results in reduction of mucosal pge2 in the duodenum, gastric body, and antrum of h. pylori-positive patients and fails to eradicate h. pylori or reduce gastric inflammation.
malignant melanoma of the biliary tract: a case report. a 58-year-old man was seen with obstructive jaundice and discomfort in the upper abdomen. computed tomographic and ultrasound examinations revealed a soft-tissue mass in the gallbladder. cholecystectomy and choledochotomy revealed a soft black mass in the gallbladder and a second one in the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct. each was diagnosed as malignant melanoma. subsequently, a whipple resection of the pancreas, duodenum, and distal bile duct revealed a melanoma circumferentially invading and obstructing the distal common duct. no lymph node or distant metastasis was identified. repetitive searches for another primary site have been negative. the tumor apparently originated in the biliary tract. the patient remains almost well 2 years after diagnosis.
use of the polymerase chain reaction to monitor the effectiveness of ex vivo tumor cell purging. the polymerase chain reaction (pcr) was used to detect residual malignant disease before and after ex vivo purging with monoclonal antibodies and complement or immunomagnetic treatment of bm samples contaminated with known numbers of t(14;18)-carrying tumor cells. sensitivity of the pcr was demonstrated by detecting a specific t(14;18) amplification product in dna extracted from a preparation consisting of one tumor cell among 10(5) normal cells. when bm contaminated with 1% to 5% t(14;18)-carrying cells from the b-cell lymphoma line su-dhl-4 was subjected to two rounds of anti-b-cell pool of antibodies and complement (ab-c) treatment a 3- to 4-log reduction of the pretreatment pcr signal was observed. a similar log-cell kill was detected using an independent clonogenic assay confirming the utility of the pcr approach. bm contaminated with a second b-cell lymphoma cell line, oci-ly8, was more resistant because a third cycle of ab-c treatment was required to obtain a similar reduction in the pcr signal. a similar 4 logs of tumor cell removal was obtained using anti-b-cell antibodies conjugated to magnetic beads. these studies demonstrate that the t(14;18) pcr can be used to detect levels of tumor cells as low as 0.001%. this approach can be used to determine the effectiveness of bm purging in patients undergoing autologous bm transplantation as well as to assess the biologic role of minimal marrow disease.
improved molecular diagnostics for ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency. since the cloning of the cdna for x-linked ornithine transcarbamylase (otc) in 1984, diagnostic accuracy of otc deficiency for prenatal and carrier detection has been greatly improved by the use of linkage analysis. however, the use of rflp-based diagnosis is limited in this and in other new mutation diseases. here we report both the use of direct mutation detection by new pcr-based techniques and our experience with linkage-based diagnosis in 18 families. we have previously reported the use of chemical mismatch cleavage to detect mutations first in amplified mrna and then in genomic dna of patients. this technique has now been utilized for prenatal diagnosis. primers for specific amplification of otc exons 1, 3, 5, 9, and 10 have been developed and been employed to map deletions of the otc gene in two families. these primers also have been used to detect alterations in the taqi sites found in exons 1, 3, 5, and 9. four novel mutations of the otc gene leading to abolition of a taqi site in the otc cdna were discovered. one of these mutations is in exon 1; two lie in exon 3; and one is in exon 9. in addition, we have used the pcr products as probes to identify the exon-specific bands seen on southern blots and to map the polymorphic bamhi and mspi sites, which are commonly used for linkage analysis. this information will facilitate the interpretation of altered band patterns seen in deletion cases and in cases of point mutations affecting restriction sites. utilization of the appropriate combination of these molecular techniques permitted accurate diagnostic evaluations in 17 of 18 families.
coronary artery disease in african-americans. contrary to opinions generally accepted in the past, chd is very common in both african-american men and women, with incidence rates approaching those of us caucasians. higher prevalence of hypertension, diabetes, cigarette smoking, and obesity all contribute to the high level of chd in african-americans. additional research is needed about the interrelations and management of various risk factors for chd in african-americans outside of the sudden death of african-americans outside of the hospital is urgent, and special attention should be given to accessibility and use of health services by minority populations.
tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma: echocardiographic characterization. we report a tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma initially detected by transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography and subsequently characterized by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. the mass was excised during open heart operation, and the diagnosis was verified grossly and histopathologically. transesophageal echocardiography usually provides images far superior to those from transthoracic echocardiography and may be a useful adjunct for intraoperative localization of intracardiac tumors for excision.
reduced psychological morbidity after breast conservation. psychological morbidity was compared in 52 patients treated by mastectomy and 67 patients treated by lumpectomy for early breast cancer. an informal counselling service was provided for all patients. morbidity was measured at 6, 9 and 12 months after surgery with two self-rating scales: the general health questionnaire and the leeds depression and anxiety scales. there was a significant excess of severe depression in the mastectomy group. in contrast to the findings of previous research, this result suggests that breast conservation reduces psychological morbidity.
phase ii trial of piritrexim in metastatic melanoma using intermittent, low-dose administration. a phase ii trial of piritrexim (2,4-diamino-6[2,5-dimethoxybenzyl]-5-methyl pyrido-[2,3d] pyrimidine, 301u74; ptx) was conducted for patients with metastatic malignant melanoma using an intermittent, low-dose oral administration schedule. ptx was administered at a starting dose of 25 mg orally three times per day for 5 days weekly for 3 weeks followed by 1 week of rest. thirty-one patients were entered onto the study. among 31 patients assessable for response, there were two complete responses (crs) and five partial responses (prs) for a response rate (cr plus pr) of 23% (95% confidence limit, 10% to 42%). five responses occurred in soft tissue lesions, and two responses occurred in lung lesions. the initial dose schedule was well tolerated. the dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression. ptx administered in this schedule appears to be active against malignant melanoma. further clinical trials to confirm these results are underway.
radiation therapy of laryngeal cancer: a twenty year experience. this paper reviews a 20 year experience of radiation treatment of 286 laryngeal cancers and presents results with a minimum five year follow-up. all cases presented had glottic or supraglottic squamous cell carcinomas with no clinical evidence of nodal metastasis. a policy of primary radiotherapy with surgery for salvage of treatment failures, produced control of primary disease and prevention of metastases superior to most other regimes documented in the literature.
stenosis of the sphincter of oddi. "stenosing papillitis" is a descriptive term for an anatomic deformity of the papilla of vater that is characterized by narrowing of the lower end of the bile duct and the proximal end of the duct of wirsung. the defect is secondary to inflammation and fibrosis from the chronic passage of gallstones, episodes of acute pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis, sclerosing cholangitis, peptic ulcer disease, and cholesterolosis. patients with papillary stenosis from gallstones may present with episodes of severe upper-abdominal pain several years after cholecystectomy. the pain is often incapacitating, and patients are often addicted to narcotic analgesics. the work-up includes abdominal ultrasonography and ct scanning and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography even though the findings usually are normal. liver and pancreatic enzymes are not frequently elevated with the painful episodes. transendoscopic manometry may reveal elevated pressures within the papillary portion of the distal bile duct. some patients are relieved of their pain by transduodenal sphincteroplasty and transampullary septectomy, thereby ablating the sphincter of oddi around the bile and pancreatic ducts and enlarging their openings.
diabetic amyotrophy without pain. a puzzling clinical picture. a patient with weight loss and weakness presents a diagnostic challenge. drs moeser and kent describe an unusual case of diabetic amyotrophy that required extensive workup to arrive at the diagnosis and rule out more serious disease. symptoms were dramatic, and recovery was spontaneous following conservative treatment.
characterization of the morphonuclear features and dna ploidy of typical and atypical carcinoids and small cell carcinomas of the lung. the authors analyzed several cytomorphonuclear parameters related to chromatin distribution and dna ploidy in typical and atypical carcinoids and in small cell lung cancers. nuclear measurements and analysis were performed with a samba 200 (titn, grenoble, france) cell image processor with software allowing the discrimination of parameters computed on cytospin preparations of feulgen-stained nuclei extracted from deparaffinized tumor tissues. the authors' results indicate a significant increase in dna content--assessed by integrated optical density (iod)--from typical carcinoids to small cell lung carcinomas, with atypical carcinoids showing an intermediate value. parameters related to hyperchromatism (short and long run length and variance of optical density) also characterize the atypical carcinoids as being intermediate between typical carcinoids and small cell lung cancers. the systematic measurement of these cytomorphonuclear parameters seems to define an objective, reproducible "scale" of differentiation that helps to define the atypical carcinoid and may be of value in establishing cytologic criteria for differential diagnosis.
tissue-specific transformation by epidermal growth factor receptor: a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the erbb product increases its intrinsic kinase activity and activates its sarcomagenic potential. avian c-erbb is activated to a leukemia oncogene following truncation of its amino-terminal, ligand-binding domain by retroviral insertion. the insertionally activated transcripts encode protein products that have constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and that can induce erythro-leukemia but not sarcomas. we have found that a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the tyrosine kinase domain in this truncated molecule can increase the ability of this oncogene to induce anchorage-independent growth of fibroblasts in vitro and fibrosarcoma formation in vivo. associated with this increased transforming potential is a corresponding increase in the kinase activity of the mutant erbb protein product. the mutation, which converts a valine to isoleucine at position 157 of the insertionally activated c-erbb product, is at a residue that is highly conserved within the protein kinase family. to our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a point mutation in the atp-binding pocket that activates a tyrosine kinase.
pathologic involvement of the left ventricle in chronic cor pulmonale. to determine whether or not the left ventricle is pathologically involved in patients with chronic cor pulmonale, right and left ventricular weights, wall thickness, myocyte diameters, and percentage of fibrosis in 18 autopsied hearts were examined in patients with chronic pulmonary disease (cpd); ten had right ventricular hypertrophy on their electrocardiograms, and eight were without right ventricular hypertrophy. five with extracardiopulmonary disease were used as controls. the weight of the right ventricle was significantly increased in cpd when compared to control subjects. walls of both ventricles were significantly thicker in cpd. myocyte diameters of both ventricles were significantly greater in cpd. the percentage of fibrosis in the right ventricle was significantly greater in cpd. the percentage of fibrosis in the left ventricle was significantly greater only in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy. we concluded that the left ventricle was also involved pathologically in patients with chronic cor pulmonale in the end stage of the disease.
transient cyst-like cortical defects following fractures in children. medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma. asymptomatic cyst-like cortical defects appearing after fractures in children have been occasionally reported. typically, these defects appear during fracture consolidation, within the newly formed subperiosteal bone, proximal to the fracture line, do not enlarge, and progressively disappear. we have previously shown a fatty density on ct scan within the early cortical defect. we now present two additional cases in which early ct scans appeared to confirm that these transient cortical defects may consist of fat, and probably result from the inclusion of medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma.
effect of thiopental on neurologic outcome following coronary artery bypass grafting to determine if thiopental reduces the incidence of neurologic sequelae after coronary artery surgery, we prospectively studied 300 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. patients who had no history of neurologic or psychiatric illness were randomly assigned to receive either a thiopental infusion or a saline placebo infusion beginning with the administration of heparin and ending just after aortic decannulation. the patients received an opioid-relaxant anesthetic administered by an anesthesiologist who was not involved in this investigation and who was blinded to the test infusion. one of the investigators infused either saline or thiopental to produce an isoelectric electroencephalogram with 30-45 s between bursts. standardized neurologic examinations were performed preoperatively and on the 2nd and 5th postoperative days by one of the blinded investigators. the group of patients receiving thiopental required a longer time for awakening (6.4 +/- 3.9 vs. 4.0 +/- 2.4 h, mean +/- sd, p less than 0.05) and for tracheal extubation (22.4 +/- 18.4 vs. 17.4 +/- 9.6 h, p less than 0.05), and a greater number of these patients were lethargic on the 2nd postoperative day. more patients receiving thiopental required vasoconstrictors during the thiopental loading and cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) periods, while a greater number of patients receiving placebo required vasodilators. a greater number of patients receiving thiopental required inotropic drugs during separation from cpb. despite the above differences, only 2 of the 151 patients in the placebo group (1.3%) and 5 of the 149 patients in the thiopental group (3.3%) experienced strokes (p = 0.2535).
reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta. since crawford's report in 1973, repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin. growing evidence, however, indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages. with this in mind, we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988. the operated patients in our series all survived. fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt, none of whom developed paraplegia. the remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 (34.6%) developed paraplegia or paraparesis (p less than 0.02). paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time (p less than 0.002). it did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes, but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes. these data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection.
lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum: an unusual intraoperative finding. lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina. he was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances. the diagnosis was made on frozen section.
contraceptive effects of extended lactational amenorrhoea: beyond the bellagio consensus. we have recorded the duration of lactational anovulation and amenorrhoea in a well-nourished group of australian women who breastfed their babies throughout the study. the data enabled us to compare the theoretical cumulative probability of conception among breastfeeding women who had unprotected intercourse irrespective of their menstrual status with that of those who had unprotected intercourse only during lactational amenorrhoea. breastfeeding alone is not an effective form of contraception, since all the women in our study resumed normal ovulation while still breastfeeding. however, among women who have unprotected intercourse only during lactational amenorrhoea but adopt other contraceptive measures when they resume menstruation, only 1.7% would have become pregnant during the first 6 months of amenorrhoea, only 7% after 12 months, and only 13% after 24 months. thus for our women it would be possible to extend the bellagio consensus conference guidelines which stated that lactational amenorrhoea can only be relied on as a contraceptive for the first 6 months post-partum in women who are fully or almost fully breastfeeding. the lactational amenorrhoea method can be relied on for excellent contraceptive protection in the first 6 months of breastfeeding, irrespective of when supplements are introduced into the baby's diet; for women who continue to breastfeed the method can also give good protection for up to 12 months post partum. once menstruation has returned, other forms of contraception are essential to prevent pregnancy.
one-year outcome after cerebral infarction in whites, blacks, and hispanics. little is known about outcome after cerebral infarction for different ethnic groups. of 590 stroke patients hospitalized from 1983 to 1986 at the neurological institute, cerebral infarction over age 39 years occurred in 135 whites, 177 blacks, and 82 hispanics. outcome after cerebral infarction differed by ethnicity. the 1-month mortality rate was similar in whites and blacks and least in hispanics. whites had a slightly greater risk of recurrent stroke or death than blacks or hispanics until 6 months after infarction, when their risk stabilized, while the risk in blacks and hispanics continued to rise for the entire year of follow-up. by 1 year, the rate of recurrent stroke or death was 34.8 +/- 4.2% in whites, 31.1 +/- 3.6% in blacks, and 21.4 +/- 4.8% in hispanics (p = 0.04). differences were found in the distribution of various stroke risk factors in the three ethnic groups. a cox proportional hazards model demonstrated that the ethnic differences in stroke risk factors and infarct subtype were responsible for the ethnic differences in outcome. an abnormal first electrocardiogram was a risk factor for stroke recurrence or death in all three ethnic groups, while a nonlacunar infarct subtype and a history of diabetes were significant only in hispanics. understanding the associations of stroke determinants with ethnicity may lead to more focused secondary prevention of recurrent stroke.
the effect of age on treatment choice and survival in elderly breast cancer patients. to investigate the effect of age on treatment choice and survival in patients with breast cancer, data from the cancer registry of the netherlands cancer institute (nki, amsterdam, the netherlands) on 611 women have been analyzed. all patients 55 years and older admitted to the nki for primary treatment of breast cancer between 1981 and 1986 were selected. for women 75 years and older, physicians were less likely to use treatment of adjuvant radiation therapy after a mastectomy and more often employed primary hormonal therapy only for local stage disease than for younger patients. life-table analysis showed that disease-specific survival at 7 years for patients 65 through 74 years of age was significantly better (65%) than that of the youngest (55%) and the oldest age group (50%). in multivariate regression analysis (cox), age older than 74 years was significantly and independently associated with a shorter disease-specific survival as compared with patients younger than 75 years. this difference in survival, however, does not seem to be the result of the difference in treatment between the age groups, but suggests an influence of age-related factors such as comorbid diseases and weak physical condition, which manifest themselves most strongly in the oldest age category and make the older woman more vulnerable to the course of malignant disease.
chemoprotective effects of recombinant human il-1 alpha in cyclophosphamide-treated normal and tumor-bearing mice. protection from acute toxicity, hematologic effects, development of late mortality, and enhanced therapeutic efficacy. in this study, recombinant human il-1 alpha (rhil-1 alpha) was used to protect normal and tumor-bearing balb/c mice from the acute toxicity caused by lethal doses of cyclophosphamide (cy) and 5-fluorouracil. pretreatment of mice for 7 days with 10,000 u/day of rhil-1 alpha protected 70 to 100% of mice from the acute death induced by lethal doses of both cy (380 mg/kg) and 5-fluorouracil (250 mg/kg). in contrast, post-treatment of mice with single or multiple doses of rhil-1 alpha was not chemoprotective. pretreatment of mice with rhil-1 alpha increased the acute ld90 of cy from 380 mg/kg to greater than 500 mg/kg in normal mice, an ld90 dose-modifying effect of at least 1.25, was accompanied by a more rapid recovery from neutropenia and a less severe reduction in the number of bone marrow single lineage monocyte, myeloid, or myelomonocytic colonies. some of the mice (10 to 50%) that were successfully protected by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha died after day 50. these mice consistently presented with extensive pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis at death. mice bearing murine renal cancer (renca) were also protected from the acute toxic effects of cy (450 mg/kg) by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha. renca-bearing mice pretreated with rhil-1 alpha and either sublethal (300 mg/kg) or lethal (450 mg/kg) doses of cy exhibited enhanced survival times over those of untreated renca-bearing mice. interestingly, the cause of death in renca-bearing mice that ultimately failed treatment with rhil-1 alpha plus 300 mg/kg cy was recurrent tumor, whereas most mice treated with rhil-1 alpha plus 450 mg/kg cy had no detectable tumor, although several died from late pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis. thus, the dose escalation of cy in rhil-1 alpha-pretreated mice results in greater antitumor effects of cy. however, the dose escalation of some cytotoxic agents allowed by the use of myelostimulatory agents can result in late fatal complications not detected in acute toxicity testing.
antecedent medical diseases in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. a population-based case-controlled study in rochester, minn, 1925 through 1987. odds ratios (ors) were estimated for the prevalence of antecedent endocrine, metabolic, or vascular diseases among 45 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis from the rochester, minn, population compared with 90 control subjects matched for sex, year of birth, period of observation, and residence. hypertension occurred less frequently in male patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (4%) than in control subjects (30%; or = .10). because of small population size, no conclusions can be drawn with respect to the following antecedent conditions: thyroid disease (or = 1.61), coronary artery disease (or = .58), obesity (or = .52), diabetes (or = 1.00), cerebrovascular disease (or = .21), and peripheral vascular disease (or = 1.23). the heterogeneity of antecedent thyroid disease makes it highly unlikely that any specific thyroid lesion is causally associated with most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. hypertension may be a marker for protective factors against the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in men.
genetic counselling in retinoblastoma: importance of ocular fundus examination of first degree relatives and linkage analysis. we report an unusual family pedigree segregating the retinoblastoma predisposition gene. expression of the phenotype in different individuals in this family ranges from asymptomatic gene carriers, regressed tumours, through unifocal to bilateral multifocal lesions. because of the unusual pattern of inheritance in this family, initial genetic counselling at a local hospital did not take into account the possibility of incomplete penetrance of the gene, and complete ophthalmological examination of unaffected family members was not undertaken. we have used dna probes from within the retinoblastoma predisposition gene for unequivocal identification of gene carriers. the subsequent demonstration of regressed tumours in founder members of the family confirmed the diagnosis of a dominantly inherited disease. the circumstances of the management of this family emphasises the need for specialist ophthalmic examination of first degree relatives and detailed genetic analysis of all such families with dna probes.
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct: a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain. a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct. celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst. internal drainage was curative.
relationship of left ventricular mass to impairment of coronary vasodilator reserve in hypertensive heart disease. an impaired coronary vasodilator reserve has been demonstrated in all stages of hypertensive heart disease but is most likely in the setting of hypertrophy. the decrease in coronary flow reserve has, however, not been predictable previously. we postulated that flow reserve depression might be related to a left ventricular mass threshold. seventy-two patients (82% with hypertension) with suspected ischemic heart disease who were found to be free of significant coronary artery disease at cardiac catheterization were evaluated utilizing the intracoronary doppler catheter and two-dimensional directed m-mode echocardiography for determination of coronary flow reserve and left ventricular mass. for left ventricular mass indexed (lvmi) by body surface area (bsa) greater than or equal to 50% above normal using established gender-specific norms, american society of echocardiography (ase) and penn methods (correction of lv mass by regression equation agreeing with necropsy estimates of mass) predicted impairment of flow reserve (p = 0.005 and 0.009, respectively). unindexed left ventricular mass and lvmi by height were not helpful in this regard. using the ase method for lv mass determination, coronary flow reserve was moderately depressed (2.4 +/- 1.0) for those with lvmi greater than or equal to 50% above normal; in comparison, flow reserve was normal (3.5 +/- 1.3) for those with lvmi less than 50% above normal. a rare patient was able to maintain a normal flow reserve when ase- and penn-indexed mass estimates were greater than or equal to 50% above normal, but only in the setting of a markedly elevated mean arterial pressure.
the operative management of coexisting thyroid and parathyroid disease. three hundred eight patients who underwent operation for hyperparathyroidism were studied. fifty-two (17%) were identified who had a concomitant thyroid nodule. all 52 underwent parathyroidectomy and thyroid resection in a single operation. eleven of these patients (21% of those with a thyroid nodule) had differentiated thyroid cancer. one patient with parathyroid hyperplasia developed permanent hypocalcemia. none had permanent vocal cord paralysis and none required tracheostomy. thorough visual inspection and palpation of the entire thyroid gland should be performed during operations for hyperparathyroidism. incidentally discovered thyroid nodules should prompt formal lobectomy with frozen section diagnosis; unanticipated thyroid malignancies should then be treated as independent entities. treating simultaneous hyperparathyroidism and nodular thyroid disease with a single operation can be done safely; it avoids the expense and risk associated with neck reexploration and can detect unsuspected cancers.
dna ploidy in the primary tumor from patients with nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumors clinical stage i. the dna stemline ploidy was assessed in paraffin-embedded, formalin-fixed primary tumor tissue from 68 patients with nonseminomatous germ cell cancer (nscgt) clinical stage i (cs i). forty-three patients had a single aneuploid (greater than 1c) dna stemline, whereas 24 patients had multiple aneuploid stemlines. in one tumor there was no evidence of an abnormal dna stemline. most dna stemlines had dna indices around the 3c value. in 13 patients there was a good correlation between the dna stemline values observed in the primary tumor and in the retroperitoneal lymph node metastases. no correlation was found between the dna index and the histologic subclassification or the metastatic behavior. the size of the s-phase fraction did not appear to be predictive of subclinical metastases. in cs i patients with nscgt determination of dna stemline values does not yield information of predictive or prognostic significance but may contribute to the understanding of the pathogenesis of nscgt.
cellular immune response toward human articular chondrocytes. t cell reactivities against chondrocyte and fibroblast membranes in destructive joint diseases. articular cartilage is one of the major targets in destructive joint diseases in humans. we studied cellular immune reactions against cartilage cell-surface membranes, because it has recently been suggested that these represent possible antigenic structures, based upon the observation of autoantibodies with this specificity in certain joint diseases. a striking t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes was found both in blood and synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. this reactivity was strongly dependent on the presence of monocytes and had all the characteristics of an antigen-driven process. clonal analysis demonstrated high precursor frequencies in peripheral blood t cells that were reactive against chondrocyte membranes. this response to chondrocyte membranes greatly exceeded the t cell stimulation induced by membranes from other sources such as fibroblasts or epithelial cells. in contrast to patients with rheumatoid arthritis, individuals with osteoarthritis showed a strong peripheral blood and synovial fluid t cell response not only to chondrocyte membranes, but also to fibroblast membrane material. however, there was no reactivity to epithelial cell membranes. normal donors generally did not show significant responses to any membrane preparation. these data indicate that there is a strong t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes in destructive joint disorders, and this may significantly contribute to the pathogenetic processes that occur in these diseases.
management of stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate: the johns hopkins experience 1974 to 1987. there is no consensus on the proper management of men with stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate. although cure is unlikely, many men survive for long intervals apparently free of metastatic disease. thus, effective palliation of the local lesion with low morbidity is desirable. from 1974 to 1987, 120 consecutive men with stage d1 prostate cancer were treated with 3 primary modes of therapy (mean followup 48 months): 1) expectant therapy (35), 2) external beam radiotherapy (21) and 3) radical prostatectomy (64). these patients were statistically homogeneous as determined by gleason grade but not by extent of metastatic disease. the over-all 5 and 10-year projected actuarial survival rates for the radical prostatectomy patients were 97 and 62%, respectively, and the apparent clinical survival free of disease at 5 years and 80 months, respectively, was 83 and 68%. the direct disease-specific 10-year survival free of disease was 46%. however, only 3 of 27 patients followed for 3 years or longer had undetectable levels of prostate specific antigen. using a cox univariate proportional hazards model several factors appeared to have significant prognostic value including volume of lymph node metastases (macroscopic greater than 2 mm.), percentage of positive lymph nodes sampled and frozen section diagnosis. gleason grade, clinical stage and the number of positive nodes did not have significant prognostic value. local recurrence requiring an operation was noted in 8 of 35 patients (23%) treated expectantly, 5 of 21 (24%) treated with radiotherapy and 2 of 64 (3%) treated with radical prostatectomy. significant gastrointestinal or genitourinary complications occurred in 33% of the men treated with radiotherapy and 1.5% of those undergoing radical prostatectomy. since the introduction of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in 1982, potency resumed in 55% of the 33 patients who were potent preoperatively and have been followed 1 year or longer. these data suggest that in properly selected patients radical prostatectomy, although not curative, can provide excellent palliation of the local lesion with acceptable morbidity and that symptomatic local recurrence of prostatic cancer achieved with radiation therapy is identical to the results in men who were managed expectantly.
terminal duct adenocarcinomas of salivary tissues. terminal duct adenocarcinoma is recommended as an encompassing diagnostic designation for a preponderantly intraoral salivary gland carcinoma that has also gone under the names of polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma, lobular carcinoma, and low-grade papillary adenocarcinoma. the carcinoma is biologically low grade, with its papillary phenotype manifesting a more aggressive behavior than nonpapillary forms.
hippocampal sclerosis can be reliably detected by magnetic resonance imaging. two independent blinded observers reported the preoperative mris in a series of 81 consecutive patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy who were undergoing temporal lobectomy. we then compared the nature and lateralization of the mri abnormalities with the pathologic diagnosis and the side of lobectomy. the mri criteria of hippocampal sclerosis were an increased t2-weighted signal and the signal's confinement to a unilaterally small hippocampus. imaging was performed in coronal and axial planes, specially orientated along and perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampal body. we found diagnostic mri abnormalities in 25 of the 27 cases with pathologically proven hippocampal sclerosis (sensitivity 93%, specificity 86%). in addition, we detected all 13 foreign tissue lesions on mri. overall, we detected lateralized lesions on mri that correctly predicted the side of the epileptogenic temporal lobe in 72 cases (89%), with 2 possible errors. a learning effect in appreciating the relatively subtle mri changes of hippocampal sclerosis was apparent in our later cases, as shown by an improved correlation between the 2 observers. this study demonstrates that hippocampal sclerosis can be identified on mri with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity.
dominant negative regulation of the mouse alpha-fetoprotein gene in adult liver. transcription of the mouse alpha-fetoprotein gene is activated in the developing fetal liver and gut and repressed in both tissues shortly after birth. with germline transformation in mice, a cis-acting element was identified upstream of the transcription initiation site of the alpha-fetoprotein gene that was responsible for repression of the gene in adult liver. this negative element acts as a repressor in a position-dependent manner.
relatively enhanced s cone function in the goldmann-favre syndrome. using electrophysiologic and psychophysical tests that measure rod, midspectral, and s (blue) cone function, we studied four patients with the goldmann-favre syndrome, an autosomal recessive vitreoretinal degeneration. with spectral electroretinography, the predominant signal was from the s cones. with dark-adapted perimetry, all patients had severely reduced rod sensitivities and subnormal midspectral cone sensitivities. with s cone perimetry, the patients had normal or subnormal s cone function. sensitivity differences between s and midspectral cones were significantly different from normal; there was relatively higher sensitivity to s cones compared to midspectral cones throughout the visual field. this relationship of dysfunctional cone mechanisms in the goldmann-favre syndrome is similar to that in the enhanced s cone syndrome, a recently identified retinal degeneration with s cone hypersensitivity. the results suggest that the goldmann-favre and the enhanced s cone syndromes are linked by a common pattern of retinal dysfunction.
neuropsychological profile linked to low dopamine: in alzheimer's disease, major depression, and parkinson's disease. a distinct pattern of neuropsychological deficits was associated with low homovanillic acid (hva) in the cerebrospinal fluid of 21 patients with: alzheimer's disease (9), parkinson's disease (8) and major depressive disorders (4). regardless of clinical diagnosis, patients with low hva were slower on a test of efficiency of processing timed information, and showed greater benefit from semantic structure on a verbal fluency task than patients with high hva. however, low hva subjects were not significantly impaired on confrontation naming (boston naming test). across three diagnostic groups, patients with lower hva also tended to have more extrapyramidal motor signs and were significantly more depressed. these results demonstrate a significant relationship between specific neuro-behavioural deficits and dopaminergic activity which cuts across traditional diagnostic categories.
stressful experience and cardiorespiratory disorders. ever since selye's time, the belief has persisted that the outcome of stressful experience is disease. the likelihood of this eventuality is increased when the experience is damaging, unavoidable, or uncontrollable. however, in most stressful instances, these conditions do not occur. the experience either is overcome or produces disturbances in physiological functions without structural change. the prevalence of "functional" disorders are far more common in medical practice than is disease. among the most interesting of these is the hyperventilation syndrome, which may mimic or be confused with ischemic heart disease. its symptomatology and physiology are complex. the syndrome may produce coronary vasospasm, but it may also complicate ischemic heart disease. it is even believed that chronic hyperventilation may be a risk factor for ischemic heart disease. stressful experience consisting of various tasks and challenges may also produce myocardial perfusion deficits in ischemic heart disease, presumably secondary to vasospasm. these deficits are in turn considerably more frequent in any one patient than st segment changes in the electrocardiogram or the incidence of angina pectoris. vasospasm is in turn related to cardiac arrhythmias, which may occur with ischemic heart disease during a variety of stressful experiences and during outbursts of anger. finally, the role of stressful experience in inciting ischemic heart disease and its complications remains moot.
multiple sclerosis and narcolepsy: possible similar genetic susceptibility. we have studied 2 patients with multiple sclerosis and narcolepsy. in both patients, the dr 2 histocompatibility antigen was positive. in each of the patients, the diagnosis of narcolepsy was confirmed by polygraphic testing.
impaired sulphation of phenol by the colonic mucosa in quiescent and active ulcerative colitis. substantial amounts of phenols are produced in the human colon by bacterial fermentation of protein. in the colonic mucosa of animals, phenols are inactivated predominantly by conjugation with sulphate. the purpose of this study was to confirm sulphation of phenols by isolated colonocytes from man and to evaluate mucosal sulphation in inflammatory bowel disease using the phenol, paracetamol, in rectal dialysis bags. the incubation of paracetamol with colonocytes isolated from resected colon specimens (n = 7) yielded a mean (se) value of 7.0 (0.9) mumols/g dry weight of paracetamol sulphate after 60 minutes but virtually undetectable values of paracetamol glucuronide. paracetamol sulphate was detected in rectal dialysates from all control subjects, with a mean (se) value of 4.2 (0.8) nmol/hour. sulphation was significantly impaired (p less than 0.01) in 19 patients with active ulcerative colitis (0.6 (0.2) nmol/hour) and in 17 patients with ulcerative colitis in remission (1.1 (0.4) nmol/hour). sulphation in eight patients with crohn's colitis (4.3 (2.1) nmol/hour) was similar to that in control subjects. impairment of the capacity of the mucosa to sulphate phenols in quiescent and active ulcerative colitis may pose a metabolic burden on colonic epithelial cells, which are continuously exposed to endogenous phenols from the colonic lumen.
quantitative evaluation of sway as an indicator of functional balance in post-traumatic brain injury. the test of sway, using different conditions of stance with measurements of the average radial deviation of the center of pressure and its path length of sway per unit of time, has been shown to be a useful clinical tool in determining balance problems in traumatic brain injury (tbi) patients. normative values were established to determine if an individual patient's sway values fell within the normal range (mean +/- 2sd). the tests have shown good test-retest reliability for tbi patients. in addition, it has been shown that the sensitivity of the test is sufficient to identify changes in patients' performances as their clinical conditions change. it has been demonstrated that the different stance conditions of the battery of tests become progressively more difficult to perform (from comfortable stance, eyes open and eyes closed, through narrow stance, eyes open and eyes closed, to tandem stance with right or left foot forward, eyes open and eyes closed). by using these subtests, it is easy to distinguish between the performances of able-bodied patients and tbi patients with very mild balance problems. the validity of the measure has been documented by correlating the sway performance with clinical functional performance tests. the test performance also correlates with the patient's own assessment of his or her gait difficulties. the limited data available suggest that the test of sway relates difficulties in static balance to the frequency of falls. finally, subtests permit identification of specific problems in maintaining balance as a basis for therapeutic intervention.
neglected factors in chronic pain treatment outcome studies--referral patterns, failure to enter treatment, and attrition. an increasing number of chronic pain treatment outcome studies have appeared in the literature. in general, these studies support the efficacy of multidisciplinary pain programs, as well as specific treatment modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation. reviews of this literature have tended to be cautiously optimistic. some concerns, however, have been raised about the methodological adequacy of these studies, particularly in terms of the lack of control groups, the brief duration of follow-up periods, and the vague criteria used for establishing the success of the therapeutic interventions. other factors that mitigate conclusions regarding the generalizability of the favorable results reported need to be considered. in this paper 3 rarely discussed topics that are implicit within most treatment outcome studies and that need to be given greater attention are examined. these topics include: (1) referral patterns to pain clinics (who are referred to pain clinics, when, and how representative is the referred sample?); (2) failure to enter treatment (e.g., exclusion criteria, lack of available financial support to cover the cost of treatment, patient's refusal to accept recommendations), and consequently, the representativeness of the treated sample; and (3) patient's attrition. in this paper we discuss each of these factors as they underscore important qualifications that have to be made in evaluating treatment outcome studies.
a meta-analysis of the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on the risk of breast cancer [published erratum appears in jama 1991 sep 11;266(10):1362] to quantify the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on breast cancer risk, we combined dose-response slopes of the relative risk of breast cancer against the duration of estrogen use across 16 studies. using this summary dose-response slope, we calculated the proportional increase in risk of breast cancer for each year of estrogen use. for women who experienced any type of menopause, risk did not appear to increase until after at least 5 years of estrogen use. after 15 years of estrogen use, we found a 30% increase in the risk of breast cancer (relative risk, 1.3; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.2 to 1.6). the increase in risk was largely due to results of studies that included premenopausal women or women using estradiol (with or without progestin), studies for which the estimated relative risk was 2.2 (ci, 1.4 to 3.4) after 15 years. among women with a family history of breast cancer, those who had ever used estrogen replacement had a significantly higher risk (3.4; ci, 2.0 to 6.0) than those who had not (1.5; ci, 1.2 to 1.7).
myelopathy presenting decades after surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions. we report on two patients in whom cervical myelopathy developed decades after they had undergone surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions. preoperative magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated dorsal tethering and cavitation of the cervical cord in the area of the previous surgery and was helpful in decision making regarding surgical exploration and in planning for it. we stress the importance of long-term follow-up by both clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in children who have been operated on for cervical cutaneous masses that may have central connections.
alkaline reflux gastritis. alkaline reflux gastritis and the symptoms associated with alkaline reflux gastritis have been reported in the medical literature since shortly after billroth successfully performed his first gastrectomy in the 1880s. the disease process is produced by, or at least is associated with, the reflux of alkaline secretions into the gastric remnant. although it occurs after any procedure that ablates the pylorus including pyloroplasty, it would appear to be most common after a billroth ii gastrojejunostomy. how the alkaline secretions cause the gastritis is still controversial. clearly, the most effective therapy is to reroute the secretions from the biliary tract, pancreas, and duodenum so that they will not reflux into the gastric remnant. this is most effectively accomplished by a roux-en-y gastrojejunostomy with the afferent limb measuring at least 18 inches (40 cm). the surgeon and the patient should be aware that the construction of such a gastric outlet channel is associated with delayed gastric emptying. the etiology of this impaired emptying is also controversial. if the patient has symptoms of dumping (either early or late), these symptoms may also be abated using the roux limb. at least 40% of patients will have gastric outlet obstruction. supportive therapy is appropriate in the majority of these patients.
neurologic and psychiatric manifestations of hiv disease. neuropsychiatric problems have assumed an increasingly prominent role in hiv-infected individuals. disease occurs at all levels of the central and peripheral nervous systems by a variety of mechanisms. the aids dementia complex is the prototypical example of "direct" effects of hiv on the neuraxis, while infections such as toxoplasmosis and cryptococcal meningitis are complications of hiv-induced immunosuppression. neurologic manifestations vary in frequency depending upon the overall stage of hiv disease; diagnostic difficulties may be encountered because of hiv's effect on cerebrospinal fluid parameters. the uncertainties of management of neurosyphilis in this setting provide and example of these problems. as is the case with other organ systems, the main goal of neurodiagnostic efforts is to find the increasing number of treatable components of neuropsychiatric dysfunction.
rapid intravenous rehydration in the pediatric emergency department children suffering from mild to moderate (3 to 6%) dehydration likely caused by viral gastroenteritis are often hospitalized because they are unable to tolerate oral fluids. we studied 17 such children, aged one to six years, who were otherwise healthy. all had isonatremic dehydration and were treated with 30 ml/kg of 3.3% dextrose and 0.3% saline over a period of three hours in the emergency department before being discharged. no patient required admission to the hospital. only one patient required another course of rapid intravenous rehydration and subsequently improved without hospitalization. although all our patients experienced vomiting before treatment, 65% had no vomiting after treatment. rapid intravenous rehydration is an effective treatment, for children with mild to moderate dehydration secondary to presumed viral gastroenteritis, that obviates the need for hospitalization.
neurotoxic action of veratridine in rat brain neuronal cultures: mechanism of neuroprotection by ca++ antagonists nonselective for slow ca++ channels. the effect of various ca++ antagonists and local anesthetics on neuronal cell degeneration induced by veratridine was studied in primary rat brain neuronal cultures. cell death was quantified by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) released in the culture medium. the neuronal cell degeneration was ca+(+)-dependent because, in the absence of extracellular ca++, 16 hr of exposure to 30 microm veratridine failed to produce release of ldh. ca++ antagonists, nonselective for slow ca++ channels (flunarizine, cinnarizine, lidoflazine, prenylamine and bepridil) inhibited veratridine-induced release of ldh with ic50 values between 0.11 and 0.47 microm. ca++ antagonists selective for slow ca++ channels were less potent and inhibited veratridine-induced release of ldh at concentrations in the following order of potency: nicardipine greater than gallopamil and verapamil greater than niludipine greater than nitrendipine greater than nifedipine greater than nimodipine greater than diltiazem. tested local anesthetics were incomplete inhibitors of veratridine-induced release of ldh. a good correlation was found between the potency of the drugs to inhibit released ldh induced by 30 microm veratridine in neuronal cultures and their binding affinity for the batrachotoxin binding site of na+ channels in rat cortex synaptosomal preparation. it is concluded that protection against veratridine-induced neurotoxicity can be mediated by blocking a veratridine-sensitive na+ channel. it is a property of certain nonselective ca++ antagonists. there is apparently no direct relationship with ca++ antagonistic activity. the effect is unrelated to local anesthetic activity.
the influence of sclerotherapy on gastric mucosal blood flow distribution. hemodynamic events and structural vascular changes of the gastric mucosa in cirrhotics have caught the attention of investigators in the recent past, but as yet it is not known whether therapeutic interruption of variceal blood flow at gastroesophageal level alters such portal hypertensive mucosal features. the newly developed endoscopic laser-doppler technique was used to assess whether variceal eradication by means of endoscopic sclerotherapy influences the gastric mucosal congestion in portal hypertension patients. gastric mucosal blood flow was determined at ten defined sites of the stomach, before the first session of sclerotherapy and after complete variceal eradication had been achieved in 15 patients. a statistically significant decrease (p less than 0.01 to 0.05) in microcirculation was found at the gastric antrum and corpus, an increase at the pylorus (p less than 0.05), but no change in the fundic area. an important question following these findings is: what are the consequences of such aggravation of gastric congestion on the integrity of the gastric mucosa?.
systemic chemotherapy for urothelial cancer in patients with ureteric obstruction. the aims of this study were to document the toxicity of systemic chemotherapy and response rates in patients with ureteric obstruction caused by urothelial cancer. the study group included 91 patients who received cisplatin and methotrexate; 36 (40%) had upper tract dilatation, 9 of whom had drainage by stenting or nephrostomy and 55 (60%) had normal upper tracts. the response rate was documented in 65 patients (71%) who had measurable primary or metastatic disease. no significant differences were found between the dilated/drained group, the dilated/undrained group and the normal group in biochemical measurements of renal function during or after the courses of chemotherapy. serious haematological toxicity occurred in 10% (10/104 cycles) of the dilated/undrained group and in 6% (12/200 cycles) of the normal group. the complete response rate in the dilated group was 15% compared with 41% in the normal group. no increased chemotherapy toxicity was observed in patients with upper tract dilatation and a significant complete response rate was found in patients with upper tract dilatation without renal impairment.
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms: i. mucoepidermoid carcinomas. histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms has been done with various degrees of success and hence various degrees of acceptance among pathologists and otolaryngologists-head and neck surgeons. given their histopathologic diversity, three carcinomas--mucoepidermoid, adenoid cystic, and acinic cell--would seem to be suitable candidates for grading. in this, the first of a three-part series, the authors present a three-level grading scheme for mucoepidermoid carcinomas. it combines histocytologic and growth features of the carcinomas that independently or together, in other grading proposals, have shown prognostic value.
cardiopulmonary perfusion and cerebral blood flow in bilateral carotid artery disease the fear of cerebral complications after cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heart disease and severe carotid artery disease has led many authors to suggest combined approaches in these patients. the pathogenetic mechanism for stroke is based partly on the stenotic narrowing of the carotid artery. a diameter reduction of 75% is frequently considered hemodynamically significant and indicative of an increased risk for neurological morbidity. we studied the cerebral blood flow in 7 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting who also had severe bilateral carotid disease. the results were compared with the results in 17 patients without carotid disease who had bypass grafting. the cerebral blood flow was measured by xenon 133 washout technique before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia. acid-base regulation was according to the alpha-stat theory, and blood pressure was kept greater than 50 mm hg. the cerebral blood flow levels (ml.100g-1.min-1) before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass in the study group (30 +/- 11, 31 +/- 8, 47 +/- 20) (mean +/- standard deviation) were almost identical to those in the control group (30 +/- 11, 28 +/- 8, 47 +/- 12). the cerebral blood flow levels for the left and right hemispheres in the group with carotid disease were comparable and within normal ranges. in 2 patients, slight differences were noted between hemispheres, and this finding may indicate an increased risk for ischemia. these patients, however, did not show any signs of postoperative deficit. the flow limitations of critical carotid stenoses do not seem to imply a risk for cerebral hypoperfusion if cardiopulmonary perfusion is performed in a controlled manner.
pelvic pain and infections. infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems. in the evaluation of the acute pain, it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly. in recent years, laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections, as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers. the evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved. laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain. all therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain. such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient.
epidural morphine with butorphanol for postoperative analgesia after cesarean delivery. epidural morphine has been used more and more to provide long-lasting postoperative analgesia after cesarean delivery. however, the incidence of pruritus (20%-93%) and nausea (17%-60%) detract from the usefulness of epidural morphine. the purpose of this study was to evaluate, in 30 patients having epidural anesthesia for cesarean delivery, the analgesic efficacy and side effects when a combination of epidural morphine, a mu-receptor agonist, and butorphanol, a mu-receptor antagonist and kappa-receptor agonist, was administered. after clamping of the umbilical cord, patients received 4 mg epidural morphine with 3 ml of normal saline (group 1), 4 mg epidural morphine with 1 mg butorphanol and 2 ml of normal saline (group 2), or 4 mg epidural morphine with 3 mg butorphanol (group 3). patients were monitored for 24 h after administration of the study medications. there were no significant differences between the groups in visual analogue pain scores, time to first analgesic request, respiratory rate, or trieger dot test performance in the 24 h immediately after these epidural injections. there were three patients in group 1 and one patient in group 2 who experienced oxygen saturations less than 90%. (no patients in group 3 developed an oxygen saturation less than 92%.) the patients in group 3 did not require treatment for pruritus or nausea, a response significantly different (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.05, respectively) from group 1 or group 2.
perforated duodenal ulcer: an unusual complication of gastroenteritis. a 7 year old boy was admitted to hospital with gastroenteritis, which was complicated by an acute perforated duodenal ulcer. after oversewing of the perforation he made an uncomplicated recovery. peptic ulceration is under-diagnosed in childhood and this leads to delay in diagnosis and appropriate management. ulceration is associated with severe illness and viral infections, but perforation is rare.
yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon. report of a case. yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity. only five cases have previously been reported--none in the surgical literature. a unique presentation for yersinia infection, abscess of the transverse colon, is described, and the literature of y. enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed.
prognostic significance of valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis. purpose: doppler ultrasound is a sensitive modality for detecting and quantitating valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis. because valvular regurgitation leads to heart failure, we evaluated the prognostic significance of doppler-detected valvular regurgitation in patients with endocarditis who had not yet developed clinical heart failure. patients and methods: we reviewed the medical records of 65 patients with a clinical diagnosis of infective endocarditis from may 1985 to march 1990. a total of 49 patients were included in the study: 33 patients with native valve endocarditis and 16 patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis. the initial doppler echocardiogram was examined in these patients to determine the presence and degree of valvular regurgitation. results: significant (moderate to severe) valvular regurgitation was detected in 23 (47%) patients. the presence or absence of significant valvular regurgitation did not predict the development of congestive heart failure, the need for surgery, or death (p = ns). the development of congestive heart failure was significantly associated with the need for surgery (p less than 0.0001) and death (p less than 0.05). conclusion: we conclude that the detection of significant valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis who have not yet developed heart failure is not predictive of future complications nor does the absence of significant valvular regurgitation identify a group of patients with a more favorable prognosis. in our series, patients who developed congestive heart failure had a significantly higher incidence of surgery and death. therefore, decisions regarding clinical management in patients with infective endocarditis should not be made solely on the presence or absence of echocardiographically detected valvular regurgitation.
is emotional disturbance a precipitator or a consequence of chronic pain? the present study examined the relationship between psychological factors and pain in order to assess the contribution of emotional disturbance to the perpetuation of pain. a group of 163 chronic pain suffers in multiple settings was compared with 81 control subjects on measures of personal history antecedent to pain onset, as well as on measures of current emotional disturbance. in addition, these psychological variables were examined for their associations with subjectively rated pain intensity. overall, pain was found to be related to more current depression and less current life satisfaction, but was not associated with most of the personal history variables examined. these results suggests that emotional disturbance in pain patients is more likely to be a consequence than a cause of chronic pain. the dangers of routinely ascribing intractable pain to psychological causation are discussed in the light of these findings.
significance of positive margins in oral cavity squamous carcinoma. three hundred ninety-eight consecutive, previously untreated patients undergoing surgery for epidermoid carcinoma of the oral cavity from 1979 to 1983 were reviewed. one hundred twenty-nine patients were classified as having positive surgical margins. of these, 83 patients had tumor within 0.5 mm of the surgical margin, 9 had premalignant changes at the margin, 9 had in situ carcinoma at the margin, and 28 had invasive cancer at the margin. the remaining 269 patients had uninvolved margins. the significance of positive margins relating to survival, subsequent clinical course, local recurrence, and patterns of treatment failure was examined, along with the impact of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy on positive margins. the percentage of patients having positive margins progressively increased with increasing t stage: 21% in t1 versus 55% in t4 primary cancer. the overall 5-year survival for patients with negative margins was 60%. for patients with positive margins, 5-year survival was 52%. this difference was statistically significant. the incidence of local recurrence in patients having positive surgical margins was twice as much as in those with negative margins (36% versus 18%). metastasis rates in the neck and at distant sites were not significantly influenced by the status of the surgical margin. of the 129 patients with positive margins, 49 received postoperative radiotherapy. in those patients so treated, a trend toward lower recurrence rates was noted. differences were not statistically significant. this retrospective review confirms the importance of adequate resection of the primary tumor as well as the relative ineffectiveness of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy in the improvement of local control in patients with positive surgical margins.
transpalpebral decompression of endocrine ophthalmopathy (graves' disease) by removal of intraorbital fat: experience with 147 operations over 5 years. from 1984 to october 1989 at the plastic surgery unit in wesseling, we carried out 147 operations on 75 patients with graves' disease. intraorbital fat was removed through a transpalpebral incision to achieve decompression. the average amount of fat was 6.0 cm3. we have made a long-term follow-up (more than 6 months postoperatively) study of 57 patients who experienced 108 operations. the first results were published in september 1988. when we compared the results to a traditional decompression operation (with resection of one or two orbital walls), we found that the postoperative complication rate was significantly lower and that the success rate was much higher. thus the range of indications for surgery may be much wider than previously considered. patients who are about to lose their vision as well as those experiencing lesser symptoms can be much improved with this operation. at the beginning, before the technique was fully developed, complications such as supraorbital nerve palsy occurred.
dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity in cerebrospinal fluid of idiopathic torsion dystonia. since a postmortem biochemical study and a genetic linkage study of idiopathic torsion dystonia suggested possible involvement of dopamine beta-hydroxylase (dbh), we determined csf dbh activities of jewish and non-jewish patients with childhood-onset idiopathic torsion dystonia and found no differences from a control population.
autonomic nervous system and coronary blood flow changes related to emotional activation and sleep. experimental models have been developed to investigate the influences of anger, fear, and sleep on coronary blood flow. studies of anger in dogs with coronary stenosis indicate that the postarousal phase is particularly conducive to myocardial ischemia. specifically, a delayed coronary vasoconstrictor response has been observed within 1-3 minutes after cessation of behavioral arousal. the response is prevented by bilateral stellectomy and can be elicited in anesthetized animals by electrical stimulation of the right or left stellate ganglion. the latter effect is averted by alpha-adrenergic blockade with prazosin. although the basis for the protracted nature of the delayed vasoconstriction remains to be clarified, the current hypothesis is that the phenomenon results from a time-dependent imbalance between the vasoconstrictor effects of adrenergic input and the vasodilator influences of coronary pressure and/or cardiac metabolic activity. a behavioral model emulating the fear state has also been developed. when dogs that fail to exhibit anger are placed in a food-access confrontation protocol, the animals demonstrate a fearlike state evidenced by a cowering posture and somatic tremor. there is a distinct plasma catecholamine profile that is characterized by a predominant increase in epinephrine compared with norepinephrine. this is in contrast to the pattern observed during anger, in which a prevalent increase in norepinephrine is observed. fear results in significant increases in heart rate, arterial blood pressure, and coronary arterial flow. sleep is also associated with substantial alterations in coronary hemodynamic function.
fungal pulmonary infections after bone marrow transplantation: evaluation with radiography and ct. the authors reviewed 55 pairs of chest radiographs and computed tomographic (ct) studies obtained in 33 febrile bone marrow transplant (bmt) recipients. the images were read separately, without knowledge of the clinical diagnosis. twenty-one episodes of fungal infection were documented. one chest radiograph showed a pneumonia-like opacity, and 17 showed nodular opacities, five with cavitation. in 20 of 21 episodes, ct showed nodules with cavitation (n = 7), halo (n = 4), hazy margin (n = 5), air bronchogram (n = 2), cluster of fluffy nodules (n = 1), or sharp margin (n = 1). in none of the nine bacteremic episodes, however, were there opacities on chest radiographs or ct studies. ct studies demonstrating complicated nodules in febrile bmt patients strongly suggest a fungal infection, whereas negative ct studies suggest bacteremia or non-filamentous fungal infection of nonpulmonary origin. ct appears to add useful information to radiographic analysis during the assessment of febrile episodes in bmt patients, especially when invasive diagnostic procedures pose a high risk.
percutaneous support devices for high risk or complicated coronary angioplasty. indications for coronary angioplasty have expanded to include patients with unstable acute ischemic syndromes, severe multivessel coronary artery disease and impaired left ventricular function. several mechanical approaches have been developed as adjuncts to high risk coronary angioplasty to improve patient tolerance of coronary balloon occlusion and maintain hemodynamic stability in the event of complications. these percutaneous techniques include intraaortic balloon counterpulsation, anterograde transcatheter coronary perfusion, coronary sinus retroperfusion, cardiopulmonary bypass, hemopump left ventricular assistance and partial left heart bypass. the intraaortic balloon pump provides hemodynamic support and ameliorates ischemia by decreasing myocardial work; it may be inserted for periprocedural complications or before angioplasty in patients with ischemia or hypotension. anterograde distal coronary artery perfusion may be accomplished passively through an autoperfusion catheter or by active pumping of oxygenated blood or fluorocarbons through the central lumen of an angioplasty catheter. synchronized coronary sinus retroperfusion produces pulsatile blood flow via the cardiac veins to the coronary bed distal to a stenosis. both perfusion techniques limit development of ischemic chest pain and myocardial dysfunction in patients undergoing prolonged balloon inflations. percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass provides complete systemic hemodynamic support which is independent of intrinsic cardiac function or rhythm and has been employed prophylactically in very high risk patients before coronary angioplasty or emergently for abrupt closure. these and newer support devices, while associated with significant complications, may ultimately improve the safety of coronary angioplasty and allow its application to those who would otherwise not be candidates for revascularization.
recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring. a case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described. these episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies, and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy. both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities. two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections. this case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants, leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months, respectively. the illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness. studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation. the biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed, in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
chronic diarrhea in essential mixed cryoglobulinemia: a manifestation of visceral vasculitis? gastrointestinal involvement occurs frequently in essential mixed cryoglobulinemia, and most often involves the liver and spleen. intestinal involvement is much less common and is generally felt to be a late and often catastrophic manifestation of the disease due to severe vasculitis. occasionally, the disorder mimics inflammatory bowel disease, both clinically and radiographically. we recently cared for a patient with essential mixed cryoglobulinemia who developed persistent diarrhea. endoscopic evaluation revealed scattered petechial lesions in the duodenum and colon as well as prominent lymphoid hyperplasia in the terminal ileum. mucosal biopsies disclosed the presence of diffuse inflammation. we suggest that this patient's diarrhea was due to intestinal vasculitis and that prominent ileal lymphoid hyperplasia may be a manifestation of essential mixed cryoglobulinemia.
cr leads in cardiac emergencies. a preliminary study. the purpose of this study was to find a set of simplified electrocardiographic (ecg) leads that would be useful in cardiac emergencies. in 27 ambulatory cardiac patients and in 15 patients admitted to the hospital, we found that ecg records obtained with six bipolar cr leads were, in most respects, similar to records obtained previously in the same patients with six v leads. records obtained with two abdominal-upper extremity leads, tested as possible alternatives to limb leads 2 and 3, were quite similar to records obtained with leads 2 and 3 in patients with an inferior wall infarction. records obtained with leads cr7, cr8, and cr9 in a patient with a posterior wall infarction revealed a qs pattern that was not seen in the conventional 12-lead hospital record. in patients with anterolateral and inferior myocardial infarctions and in patients with unstable angina, the diagnostic patterns recorded with 11 bipolar leads described in this report were identical to patterns recorded with 12-lead ecgs. although a larger number of observations, including patients with arrhythmias, would be required to reach a definitive conclusion, our results provide preliminary evidence that cardiac potentials may be adequately analyzed by using only two electrodes, using cr and abdominal leads, in succession. the technique described in this report, in which the reference electrode is attached to the right arm, and the exploring electrode is moved successively over nine preselected chest sites and over the umbilicus, can be completed in less than 3 minutes in a given patient, and provides records that are comparable to those obtained with the conventional 12-lead system.
sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with normal left ventricular mass an active, healthy, and symptom free 16 year old boy with a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy died suddenly while walking home from school. necropsy showed absence of left ventricular hypertrophy (that is, normal heart weight), though the characteristic histological abnormalities of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, such as cardiac muscle cell disorganisation and abnormal intramural coronary arteries, were present. it is likely that this patient had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and died before left ventricular hypertrophy developed.
development of acute myelocytic leukemia in patients with crohn's disease. in our hospital within one year two patients with crohn's disease were seen who developed an acute myelocytic leukemia. a review of the literature reveals eight previously reported patients with both crohn's disease and leukemia. six of the reported 10 patients have had acute myelocytic leukemia and, interestingly, three of them, including our two patients, have shown monocytic differentiation (fab type m4). it has been suggested that the relative risk of leukemia, especially acute myelocytic leukemia, is increased in patients suffering from ulcerative colitis. more data of patients with crohn's disease and acute leukemia are needed to evaluate the possible association between these diseases.
sudden death during empiric amiodarone therapy in symptomatic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. amiodarone is reported to improve symptoms and to prevent sudden death in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc). amiodarone treatment (loading dose 30 g given over 6 weeks; maintenance dose 400 mg/day) was prospectively evaluated in 50 patients with hc in whom the drug was initiated because of symptoms refractory to conventional drug therapy (calcium antagonists and beta blockers). twenty-one (42%) patients had ventricular tachycardia (vt) during holter monitoring. amiodarone significantly and often markedly improved the patients' new york heart association functional class status (from 3.3 to 2.7 at 2 months, p less than 0.001) and treadmill exercise duration (p less than 0.001). eight patients, however, died (7 suddenly) during a mean follow-up period of 2.2 +/- 1.8 years. of the 7 sudden deaths, 6 occurred within 5 months of initiation of treatment. the 6-month and 1- and 2-year survival rates were 87, 85 and 80%, respectively. the survival rate of patients with vt was significantly worse than that of patients without vt (61 vs 97% at 2 years; p less than 0.01). sudden death occurred despite abolition of vt on holter monitoring. amiodarone increased left ventricular peak filling rate by radionuclide angiography in 20 of 33 patients (61%) (p less than 0.01). decrease in peak left ventricular filling rate within 10 days of amiodarone therapy (8 of 33 patients) was associated with subsequent sudden death (p less than 0.04).
clinical significance of white cell antibodies in febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions. febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions (fnhtrs) are associated with white cell (wbc) antibodies. the purposes of this study were to determine the frequency of wbc antibodies, to associate the severity of reactions with antibody specificity, and to distinguish fnhtrs from infection and postoperative fever. by using the granulocyte indirect immunofluorescence test in conjunction with lymphocytotoxicity testing, it was found that 70 percent of fnhtrs in 24 patients involved wbc antibodies. the remaining 30 percent of apparent fnhtrs were associated with infections and postoperative fever. granulocyte-specific antibodies were as prevalent as hla antibodies and were associated with the severest reactions. because fnhtrs occur with granulocyte-specific antibodies, hla antibodies, and possible monocyte-specific antibodies (untested in this and other studies), these reactions could be grouped together as wbc-associated reactions.
pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis: diagnosis with ca 19-9 assessment, us, ct, and ct-guided fine-needle biopsy. the authors prospectively performed serum ca 19-9 assessment, ultrasound (us), computed tomography (ct), and ct-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm. the final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients. ca 19-9 assessment, us, ct, and fnab were considered nondiagnostic, respectively, in 0%, 25%, 19%, and 6% of cases. when a definite diagnosis was rendered, the positive predictive value was 90% for ca 19-9 assessment, 95% for us, 98% for ct, and 100% for fnab; the negative predictive value was, respectively, 69%, 95%, 86%, and 100%. the accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81% for ca 19-9 assessment, 72% for us, 77% for ct, and 94% for fnab. it is concluded that ct-guided pancreatic fnab is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis. when the pancreas is well visualized at us, the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of ca 19-9 assessment and ct.
incidence of hairy cell leukemia, mycosis fungoides, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in first known htlv-ii-endemic population. unlike human t cell leukemia-lymphoma virus type i (htlv-i), htlv-ii has not been convincingly linked to a malignancy. in the first 10 months of serologic screening for htlv-i/ii among blood donors in new mexico in 1988-1989, htlv-i/ii infection was found in 27 donors. htlv-i/ii infection was present in 1.0%-1.6% of american indian and 0.16%-0.27% of hispanic donors compared with 0.009%-0.06% of non-hispanic white donors. htlv-ii was identified by dna amplification in 12 of 13 samples from indian and hispanic seropositive donors. despite apparent endemic htlv-ii infection in these populations, new mexico tumor registry data showed that the incidences of hairy cell leukemia, mycosis fungoides, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia were comparable among the three ethnic groups. a population with endemic htlv-ii infection has been identified, and there is no evidence of increased risk for these three malignancies in the endemic groups.
jets over labrador and quebec: noise effects on human health. objective: to determine whether the noise from low-level flights over labrador and quebec is harmful to human health. data source and selection: search of medline for articles on the effect of noise, particularly impulse noise associated with low-level flights, and a search of the references from identified articles. data synthesis: the noise levels from low-level flights could affect hearing acuity. however, the more important consequences appear to be stress-mediated physiologic effects, especially cardiovascular ones, and psychologic distress, particularly in children. subjective perception of control over the noise has been found to mitigate some physiologic effects. conclusion: there is sufficient evidence to show that the noise from low-level flights is harmful to human health.
neuro-ophthalmic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection. both the afferent visual pathways and ocular motor system may be affected by human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). coexisting infections and neoplastic processes in the eye and brain create a diagnostic challenge for the clinician. this article discusses neuroophthalmic manifestations associated with hiv and aids, with emphasis on clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment.
the evaluation of the abdominal aorta: a "how-to" for cardiac sonographers. a thorough evaluation of the abdominal aorta can be readily achieved by use of the standard views of the echocardiographic examination. the ultrasound evaluation of the abdominal aorta represents a logical extension of the standard echocardiographic examination of the adult patient. this article provides the information needed to carry out a complete ultrasound examination of the abdominal aorta including the anatomy, the vascular disease, and the steps involved in accomplishing the ultrasound examination of the abdominal aorta.
clinical features of adenovirus enteritis: a review of 127 cases. we retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus (ad) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period. serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases. there were 69 males and 58 females and 94% of patients were less than 4 years of age. the average body temperature was 38 degrees c rectal (range, 36.2-40.8 degrees c) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days. the average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days (range, 1 to 32 days). although ad 40 and ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases (59 of 105 (56%], ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases (17%). of the 18 cases associated with ad 31, 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea. our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric ad in infantile diarrhea (ad 40, ad 41) and suggests that ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by ad 40 and ad 41. the occurrence of ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital.
the induction dose of propofol in infants 1-6 months of age and in children 10-16 years of age. the propofol dose needed for satisfactory induction of anesthesia was determined in 22 infants 1-6 months of age and 22 children 10-16 yr of age. a single bolus of propofol was given over 10 s. thirty seconds after injection the lid reflex was tested and the anesthesia mask was applied. the patient was considered to be asleep if there were no gross movements during the next 30 s while the patient breathed o2. the dose required for satisfactory induction in 50% of patients (ed50) (+/- se) was 3.0 +/- 0.2 mg/kg in infants and 2.4 +/- 0.1 mg/kg in older children (p less than 0.02). pain on injection occurred in 50% of the infants and 18% of the children.
metabolic bone disease in lumbar pseudarthrosis. pseudarthrosis occurs in many patients who undergo lumbar spine fusion and it has been suggested that abnormalities of bone metabolism contribute to it. the authors evaluated 47 patients with pseudarthrosis for metabolic bone disease. symptomatic patients with pseudarthrosis underwent metabolic bone evaluation. abnormal results of laboratory tests were found in 7 patients (14.9%): 3 low or borderline 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin d3, 2 elevated 24-hour urine calcium, and 2 low serum testosterone. none of these abnormalities correlated with other clinical findings. bone density was low in 14 of 24 patients in whom it was measured. low values did not correlate with smoking or abnormal laboratory values. metabolic bone abnormalities do not appear to play a frequent or significant role in pseudarthrosis after attempted lumbar spine fusion.
severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage in crohn's disease. twenty-one of fifteen hundred twenty-six patients with crohn's disease (cd) treated at the mount sinai hospital between 1960 and 1986 developed severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage. there were 26 separate episodes of severe hemorrhage: 17 patients bled only once, three bled twice and one bled three times. the frequency of bleeding was significantly higher among patients with colonic involvement (17 of 929; 1.9%) than among those with small bowel disease alone (4 of 597; 0.7%) (p less than 0.001). twelve patients required surgery on 13 occasions, which involved colon resection in all but one case. eleven of these patients underwent surgery during their first hemorrhagic episodes, and 1 of 11 had a second operation for recurrent bleeding; the 12th patient, whose first hemorrhage had been treated medically, had surgery during a repeated episode of hemorrhage. the precise bleeding points could be located in only 2 of the 26 bleeding episodes, both at the ileocecal area. three patients died, of whom two had not undergone surgery when they had bled a few weeks earlier. primary bleeding episodes subsided without surgery in 10 of 21 cases, but 3 of these 10 patients (30%) rebled massively. by contrast primary excisional surgery was followed by recurrent hemorrhage in only 1 of 11 cases (9%). these differences in mortality and in recurrent bleeding rates, although not statistically significant, seem to favor removal of diseased bowel at the time of the first episode of massive hemorrhage.
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour. catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae. case report. the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue. the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation. emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage. it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now.
post-traumatic intracerebral pneumatocele: case report. pneumocephalus occurs in 0.5 to 1.0% of head trauma, but may also occur after neurologic surgery, or as a result of eroding infection or neoplasm. the pathophysiology involves the presence of craniodural fistula allowing ingress of air. a ball-valve mechanism may allow air to enter but not exit the cranium, or csf leak permits air entrance as fluid leaves the intracranial space. while a "succession splash" is considered diagnostic of pneumocephalus, most patients have nonspecific signs and symptoms such as headache. therefore, a high index of suspicion in a patient with recent head trauma is necessary. the diagnosis is made radiographically by ct scan. this is generally performed to rule out intracranial hematoma or cerebral contusion in head trauma, but will reveal even very small quantities of air to the unsuspecting physician. therapy is often noninvasive, allowing the craniodural defect to heal spontaneously. selected situations require immediate operative repair of the fistula.
fluorescent cytochemical detection of estrogen and progesterone receptors in breast fine-needle aspirates. estrogen and progesterone receptors were studied in fine-needle aspiration biopsy specimens of 56 patients with primary, recurrent, or metastatic breast carcinoma. the ligands, 17 b-estradiol-6-carboxymethyloxine-bovine serum albumin fluorescein isothiocyanate (fitc-bsa estradiol) and hydroxyprogesterone hemisuccinate bovine serum albumin tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate (tmritc-bsa progesterone), were used in the fluorescent cytochemical method. the findings obtained from the aspirated cells with the use of the fluorescent cytochemical technique were compared with results obtained from the cell population of the same tumor after removal with the use of both the fluorescent cytochemical technique and the biochemical dextran-coated charcoal (dcc) assay. for the needle aspirates, there was 89% concordance for estrogen receptor and 86% concordance for progesterone receptor between biochemical and cytochemical results. a high degree of correlation was also demonstrated between fine-needle aspirates and imprint preparations with the use of the cytochemical technique. this study suggests that the fluorescent cytochemical technique is an effective tool in assessment of estrogen and progesterone receptor content in fine-needle aspirates of primary and metastatic breast cancer. the fluorescent cytochemical technique can be performed easily at community hospitals and is well suited for specimens of insufficient size for biochemical assay.
gastroesophageal reflux and sclerotherapy strictures. the development of esophageal stricture is common following endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (evs). gastroesophageal reflux may be at least partly responsible. twelve randomly selected male patients underwent chronic evs for the management of bleeding esophageal varices. six patients developed strictures during or after evs, six did not. there were no significant differences between stricture and nonstricture patients during 24 hour esophageal ph monitoring. three of the six stricture patients and four of the six nonstricture patients had an abnormal amount of reflux. gastroesophageal reflux occurs frequently in patients undergoing evs, and it is not likely to play a major role in evs stricture formation.
coronary artery fistula formation secondary to permanent pacemaker placement. we present the findings in two patients who apparently developed a coronary artery fistula as a complication of an endocardial pacing electrode. this complication may actually be occurring more frequently than recognized because the patient may be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic and therefore not undergo a coronary angiogram. awareness of this potentially serious complication is important and stresses the need for proper electrode placement without excess pressure on the tip.
eosinophilic meningitis: cause of a chronic pain syndrome. three tourists developed eosinophilic meningitis after visiting the fijian islands. two had a severe and long lasting illness with chronic intractable pain. in one patient electrophysiological studies and mri scan of the brain were abnormal and provided evidence of both radicular and cerebral parenchymal involvement by the most likely causative agent, angiostrongylus cantonensis.
intraoperative protection of cranial nerves and perforating arteries by silicone rubber sheets. technical note. the authors describe a technique whereby, during microneurosurgery, vital structures are covered or wrapped with small pieces of silicone rubber sheeting to protect them from intraoperative injury. in this way, perforating arteries located behind a large aneurysm can be covered to avoid their inclusion within the blades of the clip, and the cranial nerves coursing around or through a tumor can be wrapped to protect them from injury by a suction or forceps. by insulating nerves and arteries, this silicone rubber sheet has the added advantage of protecting them from injury due to electrical current of bipolar forceps. the silicone rubber sheet described here is smoother, thinner, and lighter than a cotton pattie.
aggravation of human and experimental myasthenia gravis by contrast media. after observing a 72-year-old myasthenic patient develop an acute myasthenic exacerbation following the administration of routine diagnostic iv contrast material, an observation rarely described in the literature, we used the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis model in rabbits injected with a contrast agent to simulate the situation. there was significant worsening of the decremental response to 3 hz repetitive nerve stimulation from 40 +/- 29% to 55 +/- 27% following the iv administration of contrast agent at doses similar to those used in humans. iv calcium partially reversed this aggravation. caution is merited when myasthenic patients are administered contrast media.
sciatic nerve monitoring during revision total hip arthroplasty. this study presents a simple method of intraoperative sciatic nerve monitoring during revision total hip arthroplasty (tha), utilizing intraoperative, somatosensory evoked potentials. using this method, the sciatic nerve was protected when surgical correction of shortened limb length was necessary during revision tha. twenty-three revision thas were performed using intraoperative sciatic nerve monitoring. no postoperative peripheral nerve complications occurred, with an average increase of 18 mm in leg length, ranging from 6 mm to 43 mm.
current strategies in the management of locoregional and metastatic gastric carcinoma. gastric carcinoma remains a significant cause of death worldwide. a patient's prognosis depends on the degree of gastric wall penetration, presence of lymph node metastases, and location of the primary site. metastatic gastric carcinoma is currently incurable. however, chemotherapy continues to evolve at a rapid pace. active agents include 5-fluorouracil (5-fu), doxorubicin, cisplatin, methotrexate, mitomycin, and etoposide. combination etoposide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (eap) has been reported to result in encouragingly high response rates, including a 10% complete response rate in patients with metastatic gastric carcinoma. trials are now under way to confirm these results. similarly, another etoposide-based combination, etoposide, leucovorin, and 5-fu (elf), has resulted in an equally good response rate but less toxicity than eap. the 5-fu, doxorubicin, and methotrexate (famtx) regimen, previously reported to have an excellent response rate, is also being investigated further. for patients with locoregional carcinoma, curative resection rate is often unsatisfactorily low; however, curative resection is consistently associated with improved survival (between 23 and 26 months). in patients with potentially resectable carcinoma, two significant problems must be recognized: (1) a low rate of curative resection and (2) the development of widespread carcinoma despite curative resection. despite many attempts, the postoperative strategies of adjuvant chemotherapy have been ineffective. new strategies must be investigated aggressively. combination etoposide, 5-fu, and cisplatin (efp) has been administered preoperatively and postoperatively to patients with resectable gastric carcinoma, resulting in an encouraging curative resection rate (greater than 70%) and manageable toxicity. based on promising results reported with eap in patients with unresectable locoregional carcinoma of the stomach, a trial of preoperative and postoperative eap in potentially resectable carcinoma of the stomach is now under way.
usefulness of labetalol in chronic atrial fibrillation. beta-adrenergic blocking agents are useful in controlling excessive ventricular rate in chronic atrial fibrillation (af) but often reduce exercise capacity. to investigate the advantage of labetalol--a unique beta blocker with alpha-blocking property--in chronic af, 10 patients without underlying structural heart disease were studied with treadmill test, 12-minute walk and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. patients were randomized and crossed over to receive 4 phases of treatment (placebo, digoxin, digoxin with half-dose labetalol, and full-dose labetalol). exercise durations were 14.1 +/- 1.5, 14.2 +/- 1.5, 16.1 +/- 1.1 and 15.6 +/- 1.1 minutes, respectively, indicating that labetalol did not reduce exercise tolerance. although digoxin had no advantage over placebo in controlling maximal heart rate (177 +/- 2 vs 175 +/- 3 beats/min), labetalol, both as monotherapy or as an adjunct to digoxin, was advantageous (156 +/- 4 vs 177 +/- 2 beats/min, p less than 0.01, and 154 +/- 4 vs 177 +/- 2 beats/min, p less than 0.01, respectively). the rate-pressure product was consistently lowered by labetalol at rest and during exercise. at peak exercise, the addition of labetalol to digoxin reduced the maximal rate-pressure product achieved from 30,900 +/- 1300 to 24,100 +/- 2,000 mm hg/min (p less than 0.01) and the maximal rate-pressure product was lowest with full-dose labetalol (22,300 +/- 1,600 mm hg/min). during submaximal exercise on treadmill or during the 12-minute walk, the combination of labetalol and digoxin produced the best heart rate control, whereas labetalol monotherapy was comparable to digoxin therapy.
retrograde nephrostolithotomy in management of complex renal calculi. from october 1986 to july 1990 we evaluated 22 patients with complex renal calculi in 25 kidneys for initial therapy using retrograde percutaneous nephrostolithotomy. in 3 patients we could not attain renal access in a retrograde fashion. in the remaining patients residual fragments after percutaneous nephrostolithotomy were treated with a combination of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl), chemolysis and retrieval of small calculi with a flexible nephroscope. successful treatments were achieved in 6 of the 22 kidneys (27%) using percutaneous nephrostolithotomy alone and in 17 (77%) using all modalities. retrograde and antegrade percutaneous nephrostolithotomy in conjunction with eswl, chemolysis and flexible nephroscopy in the treatment of patients with complex calculi yield comparable success rates. however, retrograde percutaneous nephrostolithotomy can be performed without the aid of an interventional radiologist and it provides easy access to the nondilated collecting system.
human atherosclerotic coronary artery xenografts: a model for investigation of transluminal recanalization. a model for testing transluminal recanalization techniques was developed. fragments of human atherosclerotic coronary arteries were transplanted into carotid arteries of dogs and evaluated by angiographic, angioscopic, and histologic study within a three-month period. an inflammatory response was most intense within the first week. by two weeks no inflammation was noted. total occlusion (n = 13) and stenosis (n = 11) of the carotid arteries were achieved without complications. the model is easy to produce within a short period and the arterial occlusion resembles human vascular disease. this model has been used to evaluate laser recanalization of vascular obstructions.
lovastatin. warfarin interaction. two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described. because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin, heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized. therefore, prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin.
carbamazepine maintenance treatment in outpatient schizophrenics. a double-blind crossover trial was used to evaluate carbamazepine as the sole maintenance treatment of chronic, nonmanic schizophrenic outpatients whose conditions had been stabilized with the use of neuroleptics prior to study. criteria of treatment effectiveness included the number of patients relapsing and time to relapse over a 95-day neuroleptic-free period during which either carbamazepine or placebo was administered. relapse was determined by the concordance of psychiatric ratings and independent clinical judgements indicating significant worsening. results for 27 patients (13 receiving carbamazepine and 14 receiving placebo) involved in the first phase of this treatment comparison were nondifferentiating. corroborating descriptive findings in the second phase were available for 14 of these patients. there was no evidence supporting the existence of a treatment-relevant subgroup defined by episodic dyscontrol phenomena.
the role of interleukin-2 in cancer immunotherapy. the arena of cellular immunotherapy is an emerging field of study. the field has strong foundations in numerous animal tumor models, which provide avenues of research for refinements in human immunotherapy. experience from a number of research centers can be generalized: lak cell trials in humans have demonstrated that pbmcs activated with il-2 possess reproducible antitumor activity in vitro. exogenous il-2 administration to patients is required to maintain the biologic activity of the activated cells, although the requirement for lak cells in tumors like melanoma is not clear-cut. overall, the response rate to immunotherapy in humans is approximately 30%. the toxicity of immunotherapy, which is related to the dose of systemic il-2, can be significantly reduced. the next generation of trials of cellular immunotherapy in humans will use tils. murine experiments indicate that this population of cells is more powerful and potentially more specific for tumor than lak cells. like lak cells, tils also require exogenous il-2 for optimum performance in vivo. the difficulty in reproducible til growth can be overcome by the use of monoclonal antibody activation and il-2. improvements in til therapy are anticipated from the use of tils combined with hybrid antibodies, the addition of other biologic response modifiers, and the implementation of genetically engineered cells and cell products.
investigation of mode of action of biofeedback in treatment of fecal incontinence. a study was carried out in 25 incontinent patients to evaluate some of the factors thought to be responsible for the success of retraining for fecal incontinence. subjects were initially allocated to one of two groups; one group was trained to perceive small rectal volumes (active retraining), the other group carried out the same maneuvers but were not given any information or instruction. active sensory retraining reduced the sensory threshold from 32 +/- 8 to 7 +/- 2 ml (p less than 0.001), corrected any sensory delay that was present (p less than 0.004), and reduced the frequency of incontinence from 5 +/- 1 to 1 +/- 1 episodes per week (p less than 0.01). sham retraining caused a modest reduction in the sensory threshold (from 29 +/- 9 to 20 +/- 8; p less than 0.05) but did not significantly reduce the frequency of incontinence. subsequent strength and coordination training did not significantly improve continence, although at the end of the study, 50% of patients had no incontinent episodes at all and 76% of patients had reduced the frequency of incontinence episodes by more than 75%. this improvement in continence was not associated with any change in sphincter pressures or in the continence to rectally infused saline but was associated with significant improvements in rectal sensation. the functional improvement was sustained over a period of two years in 16 of the 22 patients available for follow-up. in conclusion, the results support the use of retraining in the management of fecal incontinence and suggest that retraining may work by enhancing rectal sensitivity and instilling confidence.
demonstration of two distinct subsets of gastric varices. observations during a seven-year study of endoscopic sclerotherapy. over a seven-year period, assessment of gastric varices was made on 225 patients receiving endoscopic sclerotherapy for variceal hemorrhage. of 170 patients with complete data, gastric varices were observed in 26 (15.3%). importantly, two distinct subsets of gastric varices were identified: varices distal to the gastroesophageal junction without extension into the fundus, termed "junctional varices," occurred in 11.2%, and varices that were confined only to the fundus, termed "fundal varices," occurred less frequently in 4.1%. although rebleeding was increased in both subsets of gastric varices, junctional varices were more amenable to sclerotherapy. patients with fundal varices (n = 7) had a significantly higher rebleeding rate, increased complications with sclerotherapy, and significantly decreased survival (p less than 0.005) when compared to patients with esophageal varices alone (n = 87) who were followed for more than three months. cumulative survival was not significantly different (p less than 0.08) in patients with junctional varices (n = 19) when compared with patients with esophageal varices alone. we conclude that not all patients with gastric varices have a poor result with sclerotherapy. recognition of these subsets may improve treatment strategies in patients with gastric varices.
total-hip arthroplasty: periprosthetic indium-111-labeled leukocyte activity and complementary technetium-99m-sulfur colloid imaging in suspected infection indium-111-labeled leukocyte images of 92 cemented total-hip arthroplasties were correlated with final diagnoses. prostheses were divided into four zones: head (including acetabulum), trochanter, shaft, and tip. the presence (or absence) and intensity of activity in each zone was noted, and compared to the corresponding contralateral zone. though present in all 23 infected arthroplasties, periprosthetic activity was also present in 77% of uninfected arthroplasties, and was greater than the contralateral zone 51% of the time. when analyzed by zone, head zone activity was the best criterion for infection (87% sensitivity, 94% specificity, 92% accuracy). fifty of the arthroplasties were studied with combined labeled leukocyte/sulfur colloid imaging. using incongruence of images as the criterion for infection, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the study were 100%, 97%, and 98%, respectively. while variable periprosthetic activity makes labeled leukocyte imaging alone unreliable for diagnosing hip arthroplasty infection, the addition of sulfur colloid imaging results in a highly accurate diagnostic procedure.
caffeine as an analgesic adjuvant. a double-blind study comparing aspirin with caffeine to aspirin and placebo in patients with sore throat. despite its frequent clinical use in analgesic agents, caffeine has not been accepted unequivocally as an analgesic adjuvant. to evaluate this activity of caffeine, we used new study methods in a randomized controlled trial on patients with acute sore throat due to tonsillopharyngitis. patients were randomly assigned to receive a single dose of one of three treatments: 800 mg of aspirin with 64 mg of caffeine (n = 70), 800 mg of aspirin (n = 68), or placebo (n = 69). under double-blind conditions, during a 2-hour evaluation period, patients used different rating scales to assess pain intensity, change in pain, relief, and two qualities of throat pain, how swollen the throat felt, and difficulty swallowing. aspirin with caffeine and aspirin alone were significantly more effective than placebo for all efficacy measurements from 30 minutes through 2 hours and overall. the aspirin-caffeine combination also showed evidence of activity at 15 minutes on the relief scale. aspirin with caffeine was more effective than aspirin alone after 30 minutes and over the entire study period. for patients with fever, both active treatments were equally effective antipyretic agents. we conclude, therefore, that 800 mg of aspirin, given alone or with 64 mg of caffeine, is an effective analgesic and antipyretic agent. because the aspirin-caffeine combination is significantly more effective than aspirin alone as an analgesic, we also conclude that 64 mg of caffeine is an analgesic adjuvant.
clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the t(4;11)(q21;q23): a collaborative study of 40 cases. the t(4;11)(q21;q23) chromosomal abnormality was identified in 40 (2%) of 1,986 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). this translocation was associated with female sex (63%), age less than 1 year (60%), hyperleukocytosis (median leukocyte count, 156.5 x 10(9)/l), cd10-/cd19+ b-precursor cell immunophenotype, and myeloid-associated antigen (cd15) expression (63%). nearly all cases had at least some cd24- blast cells. the cd10-/cd15%/cd19+/cd24/+ phenotype was found in 20 of the 32 t(4;11) cases tested. none of the 40 cases had the cytogenetic finding of hyperdiploidy greater than 50, which is a favorable prognostic feature. for clinical comparison, the t(4;11) cases were divided into three groups according to age at diagnosis: less than 1 year (n = 24), 1 to 9 years (n = 8), and greater than or equal to 10 years (n = 8). compared with older patients, infants were more likely to have initial central nervous system leukemia (p = .05) and less likely to have pre-b-cell all (p = .05). complete continuous remission has been maintained in only 7 of 24 infants and 2 of 8 patients aged greater than or equal to 10 years, in contrast to 7 of 8 children in the intermediate age group (p = .048). these findings suggest that the t(4;11) is an adverse prognostic feature in these two age groups.
venous stasis and vein lumen changes during surgery the mechanisms underlying the development of postoperative deep vein thrombosis remain to be fully elucidated. previous studies have suggested that peroperative venous distension may be a factor associated with venous thromboembolism. in this study we have obtained high resolution ultrasound images of gastrocnemius and posterior tibial veins in 62 patients undergoing a range of general surgical procedures. from these we determined the changes in vein diameter occurring during the operative procedures, in response to induction of anaesthesia, and after completion of surgery. veins showed no evidence of dilatation in response to the induction of anaesthesia, but by the end of the operative procedure showed distension of 22-28 per cent. distension was most prominent in the gastrocnemius veins, and lesser distension was observed in the posterior tibial veins. in a series of patients who received an infusion of 1 litre of saline in addition to basal requirements, distension was 57 per cent compared with 22 per cent in the corresponding control group. intraoperative venous distension is associated with factors that lead to deep vein thrombosis and may be involved in the mechanisms which result in the commencement of deep vein thrombosis.
percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty. to determine the efficacy of percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty as an adjunct or alternative to conventional balloon angioplasty, 55 patients were studied in a multicenter trial. these patients underwent the procedure using a modification of conventional balloon angioplasty technique. a first-generation, 1.6-mm diameter catheter constructed of 12 individual silica fibers concentrically arranged around a guidewire lumen was used. catheter tip energy density varied from 35 to 50 mj/mm2. the mean number of pulses delivered at 20 hz was 1,272 +/- 1,345. acute success was defined as a greater than or equal to 20% increase in stenotic diameter and a lumen of greater than or equal to 1 mm in diameter after laser treatment. acute success was achieved in 46 of 55 (84%) patients. adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed on 41 patients (75%). the percent diameter stenosis as determined by quantitative angiography decreased from a baseline of 83 +/- 14 to 49 +/- 11% after laser treatment and to 38 +/- 12% in patients undergoing adjunctive balloon angioplasty. the mean minimal stenotic diameter increased from a baseline of 0.5 +/- 0.4 to 1.6 +/- 0.5 mm after laser treatment and to 2.1 +/- 0.5 mm after balloon angioplasty. there were no deaths and no vascular perforations. one patient (1.8%) required emergency coronary bypass surgery. these data suggest that excimer laser energy delivered percutaneously by specially constructed catheters can safely ablate atheroma and reduce coronary stenoses.
the differentiation of delayed serologic and delayed hemolytic transfusion reactions: incidence, long-term serologic findings, and clinical significance. delayed serologic transfusion reactions (dstrs) and delayed hemolytic transfusion reactions (dhtrs) were studied in a large tertiary-care hospital. a dstr was defined by the posttransfusion finding of a positive direct antiglobulin test (dat) and a newly developed alloantibody specificity. a dhtr was defined as a dstr case that showed clinical and/or laboratory evidence of hemolysis. thirty-four cases of dstr, 70 percent of which were due to anti-e and/or -jka, were documented prospectively over a 20-month period. retrospective review of the medical records found clinical evidence of hemolysis in only 6 (18%) of the 34. thus, the incidence of dstr was 1 (0.66%) of 151 recipients with posttransfusion samples available for testing, whereas the incidence of dhtr was only 1 (0.12%) of 854 patients tested. fifteen of the 34 patients were followed for up to 174 days after reaction. twelve of the 15 still demonstrated a positive dat with anti-igg only. eluate studies indicated that the persistence of a positive dat after dstr or dhtr may involve several immunologic mechanisms, including the development of posttransfusion autoantibodies. this study indicates 1) that dstrs are a frequent finding in multiply transfused patients, although most cases are benign and fail to meet rigid criteria for dhtr, and 2) that the persistence of a positive dat after dstr or dhtr is common.
coronary stent implantation in acute vessel closure 48 hours after an unsatisfactory coronary angioplasty. we report the implantation of a balloon-expandable stent in a patient with acute vessel closure in the state of evolving myocardial infarction following 48 hr after unsatisfactory coronary angioplasty. the stent was implanted after successful recanalization of an occluded left anterior descending artery, with repeated unsatisfactory results of balloon angioplasty. adjunct thrombolytic therapy was contraindicated. no residual stenosis was documented in immediate control angiograms, or after 24 hr, 3 weeks, and 4 months.
lymphocytic adenohypophysitis presenting as infertility. case report. the authors report a nulliparous patient presenting with infertility and hyperprolactinemia. she underwent transsphenoidal surgery after radiological investigation disclosed an enlarged pituitary gland which did not respond to bromocriptine therapy. the removed tissue had histological features consistent with adenohypophysitis including a diffuse lymphocytic infiltrate. the lymphocyte subsets present in the infiltrate were characterized by immunohistochemical methods to establish the contribution of different elements of the cellular immune response. lymphocytes bearing cd4 antigen (helper-inducer cells) were most prominent and appeared to bear the majority of the interleukin-2 receptor (expressed during lymphocytic activation) present in the pituitary gland. a few b lymphocytes were also observed. the location of the major histocompatibility antigen (classes i and ii) and interleukin-2 receptor correlated with the lymphocytes and macrophages rather than with the stromal or parenchymal elements of the pituitary. lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is an unusual cause of pituitary enlargement which can mimic a pituitary tumor, and is sometimes associated with hyperprolactinemia. in women of child-bearing age, it almost always occurs during pregnancy or the postpartum stage. the autoimmune disorder reported here has not previously been associated with infertility nor has the lymphocytic infiltrate of the pituitary previously been analyzed in detail by modern immunological methods.
clinical management of port-wine stain in infants and young children using the flashlamp-pulsed dye laser. the flashlamp-pulsed dye laser (flpdl) at 585 nm, a wavelength well absorbed by oxyhemoglobin, causes highly selective vascular injury. in addition, the 450 microsecond pulse duration produced by this laser approximates the thermal relaxation time for dermal blood vessels thereby confining the energy to the target. this new laser effects excellent lightening of port-wine stain (pws) in infants and young children without the adverse complications of hypertrophic scarring, permanent pigmentation abnormality, or textural changes, complications often seen with conventional laser systems. the flpdl now permits treatment of this patient population expected to gain the most benefit from early laser therapy in a much safer manner, before the psychological complications of being a "marked" person develop. the purpose of this report is to: (1) describe the theoretical considerations behind achieving selective removal of pws that can be understood and used by a nonsurgically-oriented practitioner; and (2) describe the practical application of the device used in the clinical management of infants and young children.
piroxicam decreases postirradiation colonic neoplasia in the rat. this study evaluated the effects of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent piroxicam on chronic radiation proctitis in the rat. forty female wistar rats received a 2250-cgy dose of irradiation to the distal 2 cm of the colon. twenty received piroxicam 8.0 mg/kg orally 30 minutes before exposure and 24 hours after exposure; 20 rats served as irradiated controls. all animals were evaluated by colonoscopy 1 and 3 weeks postexposure and every third week until death or killing at 1 year. at killing, colons were removed for light microscopic examination. one year postirradiation results showed no differences in mortality, vascular changes, acute inflammation, colitis cystica profunda, or rectal stricture between the control and piroxicam-treated groups. however, at 1 year postirradiation the control group demonstrated neoplasia in 15 of 19 animals compared with eight of 20 animals in the piroxicam-treated group. the first endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasm occurred at 15 weeks postirradiation in one control irradiated rat whereas the first evidence of endoscopic neoplasm in the piroxicam-treated group did not occur until 36 weeks postirradiation. histologic examination documented a tendency toward a greater presence of adenocarcinomas in the control group compared with the piroxicam-treated group. the authors conclude that piroxicam treatment significantly decreased the incidence of colonic neoplasia in general as well as delayed the endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasia in rats after pelvic irradiation.
airway luminal liquid. sources and role as an amplifier of bronchoconstriction. the release of mediators from inflammatory cells into the airway lumen can initiate a series of events leading to airway obstruction, particularly smooth muscle contraction and alteration of endothelial and epithelial permeability leading to mucosal edema and subsequent influx of liquid into the airway lumen. in this report we briefly review the effects of several inflammatory mediators, including eicosanoids, platelet-activating factor, and histamine, as well as the effects of plasma proteins and tachykinins that may be secondarily released because of the presence of inflammatory mediators on endothelial and epithelial permeability. we then consider physical mechanisms whereby the resulting airway luminal liquid could amplify the response of an airway previously constricted because of smooth muscle contraction. specifically, liquid in the interstices between epithelial projections that are formed during muscular contraction could amplify the degree of luminal compromise by (1) further decreasing luminal cross-sectional area by occupying space, and (2) providing an additional source of inward recoil because of the surface tension of the air-liquid interface.
accumulation and pepsin solubility of collagens in the bowel of patients with crohn's disease. the collagen content of resected strictured intestine, with and without fistulas, from patients with crohn's disease has been compared with that in macroscopically normal intestine removed from the same patients and from others without inflammatory bowel disease. collagen content per unit wet or dry weight of tissue was significantly increased in all grossly diseased tissue whether fistulated or not. although there was a significant increase in collagen types i, iii, and v in diseased tissue, the relative proportions of major collagen types extracted by limited pepsin digestion were similar for both crohn's and non-crohn's intestine (type i, 65 to 70 percent; type iii, 25 to 30 percent; type iv, 2 to 3 percent; and type v, 2.5 to 3 percent). cnbr digestion of pepsin insoluble material showed a similar relative abundance of types i and iii, indicating no major change in collagen type distribution between older (insoluble) and more newly synthesized collagen. there was no evidence of the presence of type i trimer collagen. type vi collagen, although not quantitated, was observed in 70 percent of intestinal specimens. the proportion of total collagen solubilized by pepsin treatment was significantly greater in both grossly diseased and macroscopically normal crohn's bowel compared with non-inflammatory bowel disease bowel. these findings suggest that there are disturbances of collagen metabolism in crohn's intestine, which account for the stricturing process and which may predate gross pathologic changes.
neonatal hepatitis and extrahepatic biliary atresia associated with cytomegalovirus infection in twins. prenatally acquired cytomegalovirus infection in twins was temporally associated with a discordant development of neonatal hepatitis and extrahepatic biliary atresia. this case presents evidence suggesting an association between perinatal cytomegalovirus infection and selected extrahepatic biliary atresia and neonatal hepatitis. congenital cytomegalovirus infections and cytomegalovirus hepatitis are also discussed.
prostate specific antigen in hormonally treated stage d2 prostate cancer: is it always an accurate indicator of disease status? the clinical significance of serum prostate specific antigen (psa) values in hormonally treated prostate cancer patients and the effect of hormonal therapy on the serum psa concentration, independent of the response observed from its antitumor activity, are not well defined. to elucidate further the influence of antiandrogen therapy on serum psa expression, 81 randomly selected patients with stage d2 prostate cancer were evaluated with respect to serum psa concentration. these patients were divided into 2 groups on the basis of previous hormonal therapy. group 1 consisted of 43 patients 55 to 89 years old (mean age 71 years) who had received no prior therapy for prostate cancer. group 2 included 38 men 58 to 84 years old (mean age 72 years) who had received only androgen deprivation therapy with either bilateral orchiectomy or diethylstilbestrol. the mean interval between initiation of antiandrogen therapy and evaluation of these patients was 14 months (range 8 to 31 months). at the time of psa determination both groups were similar in all respects, including tumor grade, disease symptoms and bone scan findings. the median serum psa concentration was 96.0 ng./ml. in group 1 and 16.5 ng./ml. in group 2 (p less than 0.001), despite both groups having similar symptoms and widespread metastatic disease on radionuclide bone scan. in group 1 only 1 patient (2%) had a serum psa level less than 4.0 ng./ml., whereas 13 men (34%) in group 2 had a serum psa concentration below 4.0 ng./ml. (p less than 0.001). of the patients in group 1, 2% and of the men in group 2, 45% had a serum psa concentration less than 10 ng./ml. (p less than 0.001). these findings demonstrate that the serum psa level in prostate cancer patients treated hormonally may have a significantly different meaning than the same serum psa value in patients without hormonal therapy. in addition, these observations suggest that psa expression may be under hormonal regulation and that androgen deprivation therapy may have a direct effect on the serum psa concentration, independent of the response obtained from any antitumor activity. however, the exact mechanism of this androgenic influence on psa expression awaits further investigation at the cellular level.
the use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in combination with other antihypertensive agents. angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors have additive effects with most other antihypertensive agents, but the mechanisms of these interactions vary. with diuretics the interaction with ace inhibitors can be explained by their contrasting effects on the renin-angiotensin system, while with calcium antagonists it may be attributed to independent mechanisms of action. with beta-blockers there is a variable additive effect, which has been proposed to be due to more complete blockade of the renin-angiotensin system than can be obtained with either type of agent alone.
characteristics of accessory pathways exhibiting decremental conduction. the prevalence, electrophysiologic characteristics and functional significance of decremental conduction over an accessory pathway were examined in this retrospective study of 653 patients who had an accessory pathway demonstrated at electrophysiologic study. decremental conduction was identified in 50 patients (7.6%). in 15 patients with anterograde decremental conduction, the accessory pathway was right parietal or septal in 14 patients and left parietal in 1 patient. in the 40 patients with retrograde decrement, the accessory pathway was left parietal in 19, posteroseptal in 13, right parietal in 2 and right anteroseptal in 6 patients. anterograde conduction over the accessory pathway was absent in 11 of the 40 patients with retrograde decrement. retrograde conduction over the accessory pathway was absent in 9 patients with anterograde decrement. there was no significant difference in the accessory pathway effective refractory period, or shortest cycle length with 1:1 conduction over the accessory pathway in anterograde and retrograde directions. the shortest rr interval in atrial fibrillation between 2 preexcited qrs complexes was longer in patients with anterograde decremental conduction than in a control group of patients with anterograde-conducting accessory pathways without decremental properties. these data demonstrate that decremental conduction over accessory pathways is uncommon. anterograde decremental conduction usually occurs in right-sided or septal pathways that often do not conduct in the retrograde direction.
chemical shift imaging of human brain: axial, sagittal, and coronal p-31 metabolite images. multivoxel magnetic resonance (mr) spectroscopy and novel data analysis techniques were developed to obtain high-quality phosphorus-31 metabolite images from the human brain and to overlay each metabolite distribution directly onto corresponding hydrogen-1 mr images. the p-31 mr spectroscopic data were acquired by means of three-dimensional chemical shift imaging (phase encoding in three spatial dimensions) on a 1.5-t clinical instrument equipped with a specially designed quadrature p-31 birdcage coil constructed in the authors' laboratory. axial, sagittal, and coronal metabolite images based on the area for any one of five peak regions (phosphodiester; phosphocreatine; gamma, alpha, and beta adenosine triphosphate) were generated from 8 x 8 x 8 or 12 x 12 x 8 csi arrays with voxel sizes of 27 cm3 and 12 cm3, respectively. the positions of these images were aligned with anatomic features by means of the voxel-shifting capability of the fourier transform. direct overlays of these metabolite images on corresponding proton images demonstrated excellent correlation with anatomy, factors indicating the utility of this technique for viewing p-31 metabolite levels in all areas of the brain simultaneously.
technetium-99m(v) dimercaptosuccinic acid planar scintigraphy in head and neck cancer: clinical, scintigraphic and radiological study. technetium-99m (tc99m)(v) dimercaptosuccinic acid (dmsa) is an imaging agent which has been proposed as a scintigraphic marker for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. fifty-four patients were studied of whom 51 had a head and neck tumour. all patients were examined and then imaged using tc99m(v) dmsa scintigraphy and computerized tomography. scintigraphy was less sensitive than clinical examination in the detection of patients with cancer, patients with primary tumours and patients with metastatic neck disease. ct was as sensitive and as accurate as clinical examination but more sensitive than tc99m(v) dmsa in detecting patients with cancer and with primary tumours. ct was more sensitive and more accurate than both clinical examination and tc99m(v) dmsa scintigraphy in predicting which patients had metastatic neck disease. although tc99m(v) dmsa is accumulated by squamous cell carcinoma, its inability to detect low volume disease and apparent low specificity means it has no role to play in the management of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
umbilical cord hematoma following diagnostic funipuncture. major complications associated with funipuncture have been reported but are rare. this is a report of a diagnostic funipuncture performed on a 29-week fetus with a single umbilical artery and multiple malformations. immediately after the procedure, a voluminous hematoma developed at the site of needle insertion in association with a severe fetal bradycardia. fetal death was confirmed within 5 minutes of needle insertion. it is hypothesized that the risk of complications of funipuncture may vary according to the clinical indication for the procedure and may be increased in the presence of certain fetal malformations. the rapid evolution of complications, as occurred in the present case, underlines the importance of having a clear plan of management in the event of mishap and discussing this plan with the parents before undertaking diagnostic funipuncture.
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders. care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery. if the clinical picture cannot logically be explained by the radiologic findings, further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder. investigations may include electrophysiologic tests, transcranial magnetic stimulation, cerebrospinal fluid (csf) analysis, and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined.
ultrasonographic findings of testicular microlithiasis associated with intratubular germ cell neoplasia. testicular microlithiasis is an uncommon condition in which calcified concretions fill the lumina of seminiferous tubules. we report the case of a twenty-three-year-old white man with a metastatic germ cell tumor and normal findings on testicular physical examination, but abnormal ultrasonography of the right testis. orchiectomy revealed intratubular germ cell neoplasia with testicular microlithiasis. multiple circular echogenic foci on ultrasound correlated with the histologic finding of testicular microlithiasis. further studies are indicated for assessing ultrasonography as an adjunct for screening the population at risk for intratubular germ cell neoplasia.
death, after swallowing and aspiration of a high number of foreign bodies, in a schizophrenic woman. a 46-year-old woman who had had a long-term schizoid psychosis collapsed on the street. upon admission to the hospital, she was determined to have an acute abdomen. the chest radiograph showed metallic foreign bodies in both main bronchi; foreign bodies in the stomach were not observed clinically. the woman died from repeated cardiac arrest shortly after hospital admission. at the autopsy a screw and a nail were found in both main bronchi. the abdominal cavity contained 2 l of greenish purulent fluid and a massive fibrinoid peritonitis was observed. two perforations of the stomach, each 1 cm in diameter, were detected. the stomach was completely filled with a mass of metallic foreign bodies, greenish fluid, and a bezoar of a total weight of 1,400 g; 422 distinguishable and mostly metallic foreign bodies were counted. death was attributed to cardiac arrest in delayed shock after massive purulent peritonitis caused by two gastric perforations combined with obstruction of the airways by aspirated foreign bodies. cases of massive swallowing of foreign bodies are mainly restricted to mentally handicapped persons, especially schizophrenics, whereas acute impaction of the larynx by large food particles occurs nearly exclusively in heavily intoxicated adults.
remote effect of deep-seated vascular brain lesions on cerebral blood flow. we measured regional cerebral blood flow using the xenon-133 inhalation method, at approximately 1 month after onset, in 60 stroke patients who had no evidence of major carotid artery stenosis or occlusion. their single lesions (43 infarcts and 17 hematomas) were located in the capsulothalamolenticular region, sparing the cortex. hemispheric mean cerebral blood flow was reduced on the side of the lesion in 25 patients and on both sides in 20. regional hypoperfusion was observed in 46 patients (ipsilaterally in 34, bilaterally in 10, and contralaterally in two). regional hypoperfusion was observed most frequently in the frontal lobe, particularly in the motor and premotor cortices of the prerolandic area. the 46 patients with regional hypoperfusion were compared with the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion, considering the size and location of the lesion as well as the functional and analytic motor performances. as a rule, the lesion was slightly smaller and more posterior and the functional (p less than 0.001) and analytic (p less than 0.05) motor performances were significantly better in the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion. since the xenon-133 inhalation method examines cortical blood flow, we can attribute blood flow reductions resulting from deep-seated lesions to a functional depression akin to diaschisis. interpretation of the clinical consequences and pathogenesis of this phenomenon requires further sequential and pathologic studies.
systemic hemodynamic and cardiac function changes in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation. the objective of this study was to determine the changes in systemic hemodynamics (systemic vascular resistance [svr], cardiac output [co], systemic blood pressure [sbp]) and cardiac function (pulmonary artery pressure [pap] and pulmonary wedge pressure [pwp]) during the 96 hours following orthotopic liver transplantation (olt) and correlate these with changes in hepatic and renal function and patient outcome. the study took place in a 12-bed medical respiratory intensive care unit in a large teaching hospital. twenty-one patients had olt performed over a 21.5-month period (january 1988 to october 15, 1989) for end stage liver disease (esld) from a variety of causes. a flow-directed right heart catheter and an indwelling arterial cannula were inserted for hemodynamic monitoring over a 96-hour postoperative period. liver and renal function studies, total serum calcium, serum albumin, and fluid balance were determined daily. the svr increased significantly to 12.8 +/- 0.6 u at 48 hours compared with immediate (less than 8 hours) postoperative levels (p less than 0.05) and remained elevated for 96 hours. the co fell progressively and was significantly lower than baseline values from 64 to 96 hours. there was significant inverse correlation between the increase in svr and the fall in co (r = .85, p less than 0.01). the sbp was stable except for a small, but significant fall at 16 and 24 hours postoperatively. the pwp increased significantly from a baseline value of 12.5 +/- 0.9 mm hg to 15 +/- 0.9 mm hg at 32 hours and remained elevated through 96 hours (p less than 0.05). the serum bilirubin level fell progressively postoperatively and the prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time (ptt) shortened significantly. bile flow increased progressively from 107 +/- 120 ml/24 hours at the end of the first 24 hours to 188 +/- 125 ml/24 hours by 96 hours postoperatively. five patients died from nine to 43 days postoperatively. these patients' hemodynamic parameters were not significantly different from the patients who survived. successful olt is associated with a rapid increase in svr and a fall in co without changes in sbp. these findings tend to parallel the improvement found in results of liver function tests. however, there is no correlation between the improvement in the hemodynamic state and long-term survival.
chest pain in teenagers. when is it significant? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause. onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain. the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac, musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, and respiratory disorders. routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient's unspoken fear of serious illness. most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness, and symptoms usually resolve without therapy. an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up.
left ventricular ejection fraction may not be useful as an end point of thrombolytic therapy comparative trials. in the era of comparative and adjunctive trials in reperfusion therapy, the need to develop alternative end points for mortality reduction is clear. left ventricular ejection fraction, which has been commonly used as a surrogate, is problematic due to missing values, technically inadequate studies, and lack of correlation with mortality results in controlled reperfusion trials performed to date. in this paper, we present a composite clinical end point that includes, in order, severity of adverse outcome death, hemorrhagic stroke, nonhemorrhagic stroke, poor ejection fraction (less than 30%), reinfarction, heart failure, and pulmonary edema. such a composite index may be useful to detect true therapeutic benefit in reperfusion trials without necessitating greater than 20-30,000 patient enrollment.
gastrointestinal function and structure in hiv-positive patients. we examined 19 patients (17 men) with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy. the erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin b12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients. the serum ferritin level was elevated in 12. the xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study. none of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen. light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach (in seven patients), the esophagus (in five), the duodenum (in two) and the rectum (in two). however, biopsy specimens were positive for candida albicans in the esophagus (four patients), cytomegalovirus in the esophagus (one) and the rectum (two), helicobacter pylori in the antrum (two), treponema infection in the rectum (two) and mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine (one). only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens. all of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts. we conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in hiv-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms. defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of hiv enteropathy.
v-ha-ras transgene abrogates the initiation step in mouse skin tumorigenesis: effects of phorbol esters and retinoic acid. experimental carcinogenesis has led to a concept that defines two discrete stages in the development of skin tumors: (i) initiation, which is accomplished by using a mutagen that presumably activates a protooncogene, and (ii) promotion, which is a reversible process brought about most commonly by repeated application of phorbol esters. we have created a transgenic mouse strain that carries the activated v-ha-ras oncogene fused to the promoter of the mouse embryonic alpha-like, zeta-globin gene. unexpectedly, these animals developed papillomas at areas of epidermal abrasion and, because abrasion can also serve as a tumor-promoting event in mutagen-treated mouse skin, we tested these mice for their ability to respond to phorbol ester application. within 6 weeks virtually all treated carrier mice had developed multiple papillomas, some of which went on to develop squamous cell carcinomas and, more frequently, underlying sarcomas. we conclude that the oncogene "preinitiates" carrier mice, replacing the initiation/mutagenesis step and immediately sensitizing them to the action of tumor promoters. in addition, treatment of the mice with retinoic acid dramatically delays, reduces, and often completely inhibits the appearance of promoter-induced papillomas. this strain has use in screening tumor promoters and for assessing antitumor and antiproliferative agents.
total parathyroidectomy and autotransplantation in hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland. hyperparathyroidism caused by multiple-gland hyperplasia has traditionally been treated by subtotal parathyroidectomy. excellent results have been reported by some, particularly in primary hyperparathyroidism, but other have reported a significant incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism. since 1979, we have chosen to avoid the possibility of remedial exploration of the neck and its attendant risks by treating all patients with primary and secondary hyperplasia with total parathyroidectomy and heterotopic autotransplantation. a total of 20 patients were studied. there were no failures of grafts and no operative complications. we conclude that this procedure is a reliable and safe alternative in the treatment of primary or secondary hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland.
prediction of the frequency and duration of ambulatory myocardial ischemia in patients with stable coronary artery disease by determination of the ischemic threshold from exercise testing: importance of the exercise protocol the relation between ambulatory myocardial ischemia and the results of exercise testing in patients with ischemic heart disease remains undefined, because of the dissimilar results of previous reports. to further investigate this issue and, in particular, to ascertain the importance of the exercise protocol in determining that relation, 70 patients with stable coronary artery disease underwent 48 h ambulatory electrocardiographic (ecg) monitoring and treadmill exercise tests after withdrawal of medications. patients exercised using two different protocols with slow (national institutes of health [nih] combined protocol) and brisk (bruce protocol) work load increments. exercise duration was longer with the nih combined protocol (14.1 +/- 5 versus 6.8 +/- 2 min; p less than 0.0001), but the maximal work load and peak heart rate achieved were greater with the bruce protocol (9.8 +/- 2 versus 6.5 +/- 2 mets, and 142 +/- 19 versus 133 +/- 22 beats/min, respectively; p less than 0.0001). a close inverse correlation between exercise testing and the results of ambulatory ecg monitoring was observed using the nih combined protocol; the strongest correlation was observed between time of exercise at 1 mm of st segment depression and number of ischemic episodes (r = -0.86; p less than 0.0001). with the bruce protocol a significantly weaker inverse correlation was found (r = -0.35). the mean heart rate at the onset of st segment depression was similar during monitoring and during exercise testing with the nih combined protocol (97.2 +/- 13 versus 101.0 +/- 17 beats/min, respectively) but it was significantly higher (110.4 +/- 13) when using the bruce protocol (p less than 0.001).
effects of epidermal growth factor and analogues of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and somatostatin on phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of tyrosine residues of specific protein substrates in various tumors. analogues of somatostatin (ss) and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (lh-rh) activate tyrosine phosphatases in mia paca-2 human pancreatic cancer cell line membranes and inhibit growth. we compared the substrates phosphorylated by epidermal growth factor (egf) to those dephosphorylated by the ss analogue rc-160 (d-phe-cys-tyr-d-trp-lys-val-cys-trp-nh2) and [d-trp6]lh-rh in cancer cell lines such as mia paca-2 (human pancreatic cancer), hcpc (hamster cheek pouch carcinoma), a-549 (human lung cancer), ht-29 (human colon cancer), and r3230ac (breast cancer). egf phosphorylated proteins of 170, 65, and 60 kda and analogues of ss and lh-rh promoted the dephosphorylation of these proteins in mia paca-2 and hcpc cell lines. the egf receptor is 170 kda. pp60src (60 kda) is known to be a substrate for egf receptor. the lh-rh receptor is also 60 kda. the effects of rc-160 and [d-trp6]lh-rh were quantitatively different. examinations of ht-29, a-549, and r3230ac cancer cell lines revealed no phosphorylation by egf or dephosphorylation by rc-160 and [d-trp6]lh-rh. in addition to the 170-, 65-, and 60-kda proteins, 35-kda proteins were also phosphorylated in some cancer cell lines. this work demonstrates that analogues of ss and lh-rh can reverse the effects of egf biochemically as well as functionally.
influence of age and endocrine factors on the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia. to determine whether endocrine factors influence the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph), 23 hormonal factors were measured in the serum of 64 men ages 42 to 71 years with low volume prostatic cancer and these levels were correlated with the volume of benign hyperplastic tissue in their radical prostatectomy specimens. with age there was a significant increase in the volume of bph. also with age there was a significant decrease in the serum levels of free testosterone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandronsterone (dha), dehydroepiandronsterone sulphate (dha-s), delta 5-androstenediol, and 17-hydroxypregnenolone, and a significant increase in sex hormone-binding globulin (shbg), lh, and fsh. when bph volume and hormone levels were corrected for age, bph volume correlated positively with free testosterone, estradiol, and estriol. these data indicate that with age patients with larger volumes of bph have higher serum androgen and estrogen levels suggesting that serum androgen and estrogen levels may be factors in the persistent stimulation of bph with age. if so, therapeutic attempts at lowering plasma testosterone levels, reducing estrogen levels, or blocking androgenic stimulation through other mechanisms may interfere with the progression of bph with age. conversely, the fact that androgen production declines gradually with age may explain the observation that only 20 to 30% of men who live to age 80 require surgical treatment for urinary obstruction from bph.
amenorrhea, osteopenia, and the female athlete. athletic amenorrhea is a problem because it is associated with an increased risk of injuries and potentially an increased risk of osteoporosis in later life. this article gives suggestions for the evaluation of the athlete with amenorrhea and for treatment protocols. primary care physicians should routinely screen female adolescent athletes for amenorrhea and, if athletic amenorrhea is present, initiate treatment or referral for treatment for this important problem with short- and long-term complications.
levels of the human hepatocyte growth factor in serum of patients with various liver diseases determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. we have found a hepatotrophic factor in plasma or sera of patients with fulminant hepatic failure and have purified human hepatocyte growth factor from plasma of these patients. in this study we developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with high specificity and sensitivity for human hepatocyte growth factor in human serum. this assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor is a sandwich method consisting of three steps. the standard curve for human hepatocyte growth factor appeared to be linear in the range of 0.20 to 12.50 ng purified human hepatocyte growth factor/ml (2.35 to 147 pmol/l). the assay took about 4 hr. serum human hepatocyte growth factor values in patients with fulminant hepatic failure measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed a strong positive correlation with that by bioassay using rat hepatocytes in primary culture. the mean value of serum human hepatocyte growth factor for 30 normal subjects was 0.24 +/- 0.12 (s.d.) ng/ml; that for 23 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was 8.06 +/- 1.76 (s.e.m.) ng/ml- greater than 30 times greater than the mean value for normal subjects. serum human hepatocyte growth factor levels in patients with acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were found to be slightly higher than those in normal subjects, but only the increase in serum human hepatocyte growth factor of acute hepatitis patients was statistically significant. the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor should prove useful for serum human hepatocyte growth factor level measurement in patients with various liver diseases.
window operation: an alternative treatment method for bartholin gland cysts and abscesses recently, we developed the "window operation" as a more effective way to treat bartholin gland cysts and abscesses. the window operation was used to treat 25 bartholin cysts and 22 bartholin abscesses during a 3-year period from october 1, 1986 to september 30, 1989. under local anesthesia, a small piece of skin including the cyst wall was excised in an oval shape, and suturing was performed along the excised margin. postoperative antibiotics were given in cases of acute inflammation. a new mucocutaneous junction was observed at the 4-week postoperative checkup. no complications or recurrences have been observed during the study period. the window operation can be an alternative method of treatment for bartholin gland cysts or abscesses.
co2 laser for suppurative hidradenitis of the vulva. chronic suppurative hidradenitis is a disease of the apocrine glands occurring predominantly in the axillae of the anogenital region. treatment, to date, has been frustrating. prolonged antibiotic therapy and multiple incisions and drainage have been the usual form of therapy, but those surgical procedures leave patients with ugly scars; retracted, hypertrophic skin edges; and pitted, indurated and disfiguring abscesses. the only successful treatment to date has been wide excision of the entire apocrine gland-bearing tissues, such as radical vulvectomy, which often necessitates grafts to cover the surgically exposed areas. that has left patients with unsatisfactorily functioning vaginas and a mutilated appearance. recently we instituted the use of the co2 laser to treat these patients with the goal of eradicating the suppurative sinus tracts and the infected apocrine glands without removing large volumes of adjacent, unaffected tissue. over the past eight years we treated 11 patients who had extensive, chronic hidradenitis of the anogenital area with the co2 laser. the use of laser therapy for these patients has produced effective and less-mutilating results. such treatment has been a successful option for treating this debilitating disease.
auditory hallucinations and smaller superior temporal gyral volume in schizophrenia. recent neuropathologic investigations in schizophrenia report smaller volume of medial temporal lobe structures. these findings are confirmed by preliminary magnetic resonance imaging (mri) studies. direct stimulation of lateral temporal lobe structures in the region of the superior temporal gyrus provokes hallucinations. the authors' mri study of young schizophrenic patients demonstrates smaller volume of the superior temporal gyrus (an auditory association area) and of the left amygdala. smaller size of the left superior temporal gyrus and left amygdala is not accounted for by smaller size of the overall brain or temporal lobe. shrinkage of the left superior temporal gyrus is strongly and selectively correlated with severity of auditory hallucinations.
urologic function after experimental cauda equina compression. cystometrograms versus cortical-evoked potentials. twenty female beagle dogs underwent an l6-7 laminectomy and six dogs each had 25, 50 or 75% constriction of the cauda equina and 2 control dogs had laminectomy only. cystometrograms were performed pre- and post-operatively and three months after constriction. cortical evoked potentials were monitored pre- and post-operatively and monthly for three months. after three months of constriction, the cauda equina of these dogs in each group was examined histologically and vascular circulation was examined by latex and india ink injection (spalteholz technique). the control dogs had normal cmgs and ceps. twenty-five percent constriction caused no cmg changes and mild cep changes. fifty percent constriction caused no statistically significant cmg changes, major cep changes and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia. seventy-five percent constriction produced severe cmg changes with detrusor areflexia, increased bladder capacity and clinical incontinence. ceps also had marked deterioration. vascular analysis revealed severe arterial narrowing at the level of constriction and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia. blockage of axoplasmic flow and nerve root atrophy was seen in all dogs with 75% constriction. cortical evoked potentials were the most sensitive predictor of neural compression. cmgs were not sensitive until severe compression was achieved. bladder dysfunction, i.e., detrusor areflexia, appears to occur with blockage of axoplasmic flow and early sensory changes occur with neurovenous congestion.
treatment of kawasaki syndrome: a comparison of two dosage regimens of intravenously administered immune globulin. because intravenously administered immune globulin (ivig) is effective in reducing the incidence of coronary artery aneurysms in kawasaki syndrome when given at a dose of 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days, we undertook a multicenter clinical trial comparing two dosage regimens of ivig. patients were randomly assigned to receive ivig at either 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days (22 patients) or 1 gm/kg as a single dose (22 patients). all patients received aspirin therapy, and all were enrolled within 7 days of onset of fever. the presence of coronary artery aneurysms was evaluated by means of two-dimensional echocardiography before infusion; at days 4 to 6, 14 to 21, and 42 to 49 after infusion; and at 1 year. coronary artery aneurysms were detected in 3 of the 44 patients, including one patient receiving 400 mg/kg and two patients receiving 1 gm/kg (p value not significant). no giant aneurysms were detected. no major side effects occurred with either dosage regimen. patients receiving the 1 gm/kg dose had a faster resolution of fever and were discharged from the hospital approximately 1 day sooner than the 400 mg/kg group (p = 0.01). although the relatively small sample size in this trial does not allow for a more definitive statement regarding the occurrence of coronary artery aneurysms, it appears that the 1 gm/kg dose is associated with a more rapid clinical improvement and a shorter hospital stay.
glutamic acid and gamma-aminobutyric acid neurotransmitters in central control of breathing. we review recent cross-disciplinary experimental and theoretical investigations on metabolism of the amino acid neurotransmitters glutamic acid and gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) in the brain during hypoxia and hypercapnia and their possible role in central control of breathing. the roles of classical modifiers of central chemical drive to breathing (h+ and cholinergic mechanisms) are summarized. a brief perspective on the current widespread interest in gaba and glutamate in central control is given. the basic biochemistry of these amino acids and their roles in ammonia and bicarbonate metabolism are discussed. this review further addresses recent work on central respiratory effects of inhibitory gaba and excitatory glutamate. current understanding of the sites and mechanisms of action of these amino acids on or near the ventral surface of the medulla is reviewed. we focus particularly on tracer kinetic investigations of glutamatergic and gabaergic mechanisms in hypoxia and hypercapnia and their possible role in the ventilatory response to hypoxia. we conclude with some speculative remarks on the critical importance of these investigations and suggest specific directions of research in central mechanisms of respiratory control.
cumulative load as a risk factor for back pain. the association between cumulative load (biomechanic load and exposure time integral over the entire work experience) and back pain was investigated in a group of institutional aides with physically stressful jobs. a questionnaire/interview was conducted with 161 of these institutional aides. the point prevalence of back pain in this sample was 62%. men had worked a mean duration of 14.3 years and women 11.6 years at the time of the onset of the first pain episode. every job performed was analyzed by the use of a two-dimensional static mathematical model. the compression and shear at the thoracolumbar and lumbosacral discs were computed by the use of a biomechanic model. cumulative compression and shear were significantly higher in institutional aides with pain compared with those without pain (p less than 0.05-0.01). the pain group was similar to the no-pain group in age, weight, and height.
mediastinitis following nasal intubation in the emergency department. a patient who developed a retropharyngeal abscess and fatal mediastinitis following emergent nasal intubation is described. despite aggressive surgical therapy the patient died of mediastinitis. although mediastinitis as a complication of oral intubation has been described, mediastinitis following nasal intubation has not previously been reported.
occurrence of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis with cachexia in a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla in athymic nude mice: a novel experimental model of three concomitant paraneoplastic syndromes. hypercalcemia and leukocytosis may occur in conjunction as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with malignant disease. here we describe a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla that was associated with hypercalcemia and leukocytosis, and also cachexia. the primary tumor was surgically removed and established in permanent cell culture. when either primary tumors or cultured tumor cells were inoculated into nude mice, the nude mice developed the same paraneoplastic syndromes as those which occurred in the patient from whom the tumor was originally derived. the plasma calcium was increased two and one-half-fold and the wbc count 30-fold, and the body weight was decreased by 45% in tumor-bearing animals. each of these paraneoplastic syndromes was alleviated by surgical excision of the tumor, indicating that the paraneoplastic syndromes were due to a factor or factors produced by the primary tumor. the development of each of these paraneoplastic syndromes in nude mice correlated positively with the other two syndromes. we examined the organs of tumor-bearing mice and found striking histopathologic abnormalities in the bones, spleen, and liver, but no infiltration with tumor cells. the bones showed marked evidence of osteoclastic bone resorption. this model of a human tumor associated with the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis paraneoplastic syndrome, together with cachexia, should make it possible to determine the mechanisms responsible for these paraneoplastic syndromes and their relationship to each other.
how to select a drug for the long-term treatment of chronic heart failure. first-line drugs for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure should produce immediate symptomatic benefit, improve exercise tolerance, and thereby improve the quality of life. they should preferentially be active as monotherapy or at least reduce the need for comedication. the drugs must be safe and well tolerated by patients and change, in the end, the natural history of the disease, so that sudden death will be prevented and life expectancy improves. none of the currently available drugs satisfies all these criteria. diuretics, digitalis, converting-enzyme inhibitors, and ibopamine come close to the described ideal.
the diagnosis of ovarian cancer by pathologists: how often do diagnoses by contributing pathologists agree with a panel of gynecologic pathologists? the cancer and steroid hormone study, a multicenter, population-based, case-control study of ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer in women 20 to 54 years of age, permitted the diagnoses of contributing pathologists to be compared with those of a panel of three gynecologic pathologists. a diagnosis of ovarian cancer was made by contributing pathologists on 477 subjects. agreement between the two groups of pathologists was 97% for primary epithelial ovarian cancer and 89% for primary nonepithelial ovarian malignancies. agreement on diagnosis of major cellular subtypes of ovarian malignancy ranged between 73% for endometrioid cancer and 100% for clear cell carcinomas. we conclude that the diagnosis of pathologic features of primary ovarian cancer is highly predictable. nonetheless, diagnosis by histologic type varies sufficiently that a review process should be considered for clinical or investigative decisions involving specific histologic diagnoses of ovarian cancer.
endoscopic laser surgery. a single-center comprehensive experience. a retrospective review of endoscopic procedures using the nd:yag laser was carried out for patients treated between october 1985 and march 1989. during this 42-month period 165 procedures were performed on 100 patients. the study encompasses a unique period of time in this center, as it includes the initial application, and finally, the time when its use became routine. indications for laser surgery included the treatment of tumors, bleeding, benign strictures, arterial occlusions, and hemorrhoids. nd:yag laser was found to be effective in the treatment of these lesions. the overall success rate was 81 per cent. patients who are poor surgical candidates would especially benefit from this therapeutic alternative.
the surgical management of children with ulcerative colitis. the old vs. the new. the authors' experience with children who have chronic ulcerative colitis was reviewed to compare their current surgical approach (ileoanal anastomosis) with earlier methods of management. between 1960 and 1984, 137 children with chronic ulcerative colitis underwent surgery (mean duration of follow-up, 7.1 years). in 91 patients, the procedures were a total proctocolectomy with ileostomy or kock pouch (66) or a lesser colectomy with either an ileostomy (16) or an ileorectal anastomosis (9) (group i). forty-six patients underwent an ileoanal anastomosis procedure (group ii). children in group i were more likely to have significant preoperative loss of weight, a debilitated condition, and malnutrition. urgent or emergency surgical intervention was required in 25 percent of patients in group i but in only 4 percent of patients in group ii. trends included 1) a younger age at operation in group ii, 2) a higher mortality in group i (7.7 percent) than group ii (0 percent), and 3) a higher perioperative mortality with emergency operations (23 percent) than elective procedures (1.6 percent). in group i, 98 percent of patients had an abdominal ostomy, but no patients in group ii had an abdominal ostomy. the children with an ileoanal anastomosis had an average of 4.8 stools during waking hours and 1.3 stools each night. on the basis of this experience, the authors recommend use of the ileoanal anastomosis procedure in the surgical treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis in children.
magnetic motor-evoked potentials in epilepsy: effects of the disease and of anticonvulsant medication. magnetic motor-evoked potentials were recorded in 53 patients with medically intractable, mainly temporal lobe epilepsy and compared with potentials of 110 healthy volunteers. the motor-evoked potentials were reevaluated in 16 of the 53 patients after substantial reduction of antiepileptic drug doses. the objective was to assess the effect of epilepsy and of anticonvulsant medication on the central motor system. in subjects receiving antiepileptic treatment, cortical threshold intensities were markedly elevated and peripheral latencies were prolonged. cortical threshold intensities and peripheral latencies decreased to approach control values after anticonvulsant medication was reduced but were increased in patients treated with 2 or 3 anticonvulsant agents instead of 1. additionally, high levels of interictal epileptiform activity and a high frequency of seizures significantly decreased the central motor conduction time and, in part, threshold intensities. the central motor conduction time was further diminished after reduction of anticonvulsant treatment and increased when several drugs were administered. the duration of epilepsy, the location of the epileptic focus, and the type of the epileptic seizure did not affect motor-evoked potentials. conclusively, central motor pathways are endogenously facilitated by epileptiform activity even if clinical signs of their involvement are absent. anticonvulsant medication exerts major reversible effects on magnetic motor-evoked potentials.
mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis. anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis, although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly. in this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis, although only a third had anemia (hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl), there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18. specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge. with scanning electron microscopy, we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women, and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular, but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also (total 10.3% vs 1.4%, p less than 0.0001). these changes, especially echinocytosis, have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide, and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo. we conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage.
a multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease. perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality, and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse. we reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates, or both. multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions, a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death, while age, use of a bronchodilator, a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications. a duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications. the type of operation performed either simple closure, vagotomy and drainage or resection, did not influence morbidity or mortality. the most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term. long term results were improved with definitive operation, as measured by the visick classification and the need for reoperations. definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer.
sympathetic neural contribution to salt-induced hypertension in dahl rats. the dahl strain provides a model for examining mechanisms involved in the genetic sensitivity or resistance to salt-induced hypertension. dahl salt-sensitive rats develop hypertension when fed a high salt diet; dahl salt-resistant rats remain normotensive. based on early experiments, it was thought that hypertension in dahl salt-sensitive rats epitomized the overriding importance of renal and humoral mechanisms in salt-induced hypertension, but studies in the past 15 years have demonstrated that alterations in sympathetic neural mechanisms also participate critically in the genetic predisposition to salt-induced hypertension in dahl salt-sensitive rats. this article briefly reviews sympathetic neural mechanisms in dahl rats, including evidence for a role of afferent baroreceptor as well as central neural and peripheral adrenergic mechanisms in salt-induced hypertension in dahl salt-sensitive rats.
okt3 encephalopathy. okt3 therapy for induction immunosuppression in a patient who underwent renal transplantation produced obtundation and quadriparesis associated with computed tomographic scan evidence of brain edema. these findings resolved over 3 days with supportive therapy and okt3 withdrawal.
incidental blood pressure elevations: a mirnet project. background. a prospective study was undertaken to determine the prevalence of hypertension in office patients with an incidental diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 90 mm hg. methods. during routine screening of 14,890 patients, 174 patients with elevated diastolic blood pressures but no previous diagnosis of hypertension were identified over a 3-month period. only 115 (64%) returned as requested for two subsequent blood pressure readings. results. sixty percent of those returning fit the definition for hypertension using the criteria of the joint national committee on detection, evaluation, and treatment of hypertension. sixty-nine percent (43/62) of the men and 49% (26/53) of the women were hypertensive. women under 40 years old were less likely to be hypertensive, but age did not predict hypertension in men. among those patients with a diastolic pressure reading below 105 mm hg, progressively higher diastolic readings on the first visit did not predict a higher probability of hypertension. among those patients with a diastolic pressure reading above 105 mm hg, however, 90% (9/10) were hypertensive. conclusions. physicians should take incidental elevation of diastolic pressure seriously because of the high prevalence of confirmed hypertension in this group of patients.
changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review, 1981 to 1986 we measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system. we developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 medicare patients with congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, pneumonia, cerebrovascular accident, or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986. very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission (17% with very good care died vs 30% with very poor care). the quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 (from 25% receiving poor or very poor care to 12%), although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition (7% vs 4%). except for discharge planning processes, the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for medicare patients despite, or because of, the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review.
reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions. we evaluated prospectively a technique of delayed reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions. forty-one consecutive postoperative obstetric and gynecologic patients with abdominal incisions that had opened because of infection, hematoma, or seroma and had intact fascia participated in the study. all wounds were first managed identically, with surgical drainage and debridement, for a minimum of 4 days. the patients then were randomized to either wound reclosure by a standardized en bloc technique (35) or healing by second intention (six). reclosure was successful in 30 of 35 cases (85.7%). the mean time to complete healing was 15.8 days in successful cases, 67.2 days in failed cases, and 23.2 days for all patients who were reclosed. failure to heal after reclosure was due to subcutaneous infection in two patients and seroma in three; these women were significantly heavier than those in whom reclosure was successful. there were no other major complications of wound reclosure. patients randomized to healing by second intention required a mean of 71.8 days of wound care. the time to complete healing in the wound-reclosure group was significantly shorter compared with the group that healed by second intention (p = .002, log rank test). we conclude that en bloc reclosure of disrupted surgical incisions, compared with nonsurgical treatment, significantly decreases the time required for wound healing and has minimal morbidity.
cervicocephalic kinesthetic sensibility in patients with cervical pain. head orientation in space makes use of multiple sensory afferents, among which the cervical proprioceptive cues could play a predominant role. to quantify the alteration of neck proprioception in patients with cervical pathology, we proposed a test for the clinical evaluation of the ability to relocate the head on the trunk after an active head movement, for 30 healthy subjects and 30 patients with cervical pain. the data demonstrated that this ability was significantly poorer in the patient group, indicating an alteration in neck proprioception. this test permits a discriminant classification of healthy and sick subjects, justifies proprioceptive rehabilitation programs, and allows a quantitative evaluation of their results.
colobronchial fistula: a rare complication of crohn's colitis. a 29-yr-old white woman presented with chronic pneumonia in the left lower lobe and with left pleural effusion. she was known to have inflammatory bowel disease, but she was asymptomatic under maintenance treatment with 5-asa. she received numerous antibiotic regimens according to susceptibility testing of microorganisms cultured from sputum and bronchial lavage and on an empiric basis was also given antituberculosis treatment, but there was no clinical improvement or change in the chest radiographic findings. sputum was repeatedly examined and yielded, among other organisms, clostridium inocuum, enterobacter, klebsiella pneumoniae, proteus mirabilis, and staphylococcus aureus. on one microscopic examination of sputum, the presence of feculent material was suspected. a subsequent gastrografin enema revealed a cologastric and colobronchial fistula between the splenic flexture of the colon and the greater curve of the stomach and the bronchial system. segmental resection of the colon and resection of the lower lobe of the left lung were performed. histologic findings of the resected colon were consistent with crohn's disease. after a long period of postoperative recovery, the patient returned to good general health and well-being. to our knowledge, a colobronchial fistula caused by crohn's colitis has not been previously reported.
a new method for mapping hepatic subsegment: counterstaining identification technique. hepatic subsegmentectomy requires identification of the borders of tumor-bearing subsegment, usually achieved by injecting dye into the portal veins feeding the domain. we describe an alternative technique for performing systematic subsegmentectomy in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, in whom hepatic arterial and portal venous embolizations were already performed as a preoperative adjuvant. under ultrasonic guidance, each of the neighboring portal units is sequentially stained, thus defining the avascular subsegment to be resected as the nonstaining area. this allows the subsegment to be totally resected. this counterstaining identification technique can be used for all subsegments undergoing complete embolization and for other situations in which the usual staining method is impossible because of the presence of arterioportal shunting or portal tumor thrombus.
prevalence of common and dysplastic naevi in a swedish population. the naevus profile was examined in a swedish population that was randomly selected from a census file. the participation rate was considered high at 82%. the number of common naevi (cn) and the prevalence of dysplastic naevi (dn) were investigated in 379 subjects (aged 30-50 years). the mean total body count of cn greater than or equal to 2 mm was 67 (range 1-300). as many as 22% of the population had 100 naevi or more and only 18% had less than 25. the counts were not influenced by age or sex. dn were diagnosed clinically in 18% (ci 14-22%) of the subjects and histologically in 8% (ci 5-11%). subjects with dysplastic naevi had a significantly larger number of common naevi and a more sun-sensitive skin type than subjects without dn, p less than 0.001.
matched group study of surgical resection versus cobalt-60 plaque radiotherapy for primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma. we report the results of a nonrandomized, matched-group, survival and visual preservation study of patients with a choroidal or ciliary body melanoma managed by microsurgical resection of the tumor versus cobalt-60 episcleral plaque radiotherapy. each treatment group consisted of 30 patients. all patients were matched on a case-by-case basis in terms of tumor size (largest linear tumor dimension), location of the anterior tumor margin relative to the ora serrata, location of the posterior tumor margin relative to the equator, and age at the time of treatment. although the estimated actuarial 5-year survival probability was slightly greater in the resection group (85.2%) than in the cobalt plaque group (81.8%), this difference was neither clinically impressive nor statistically significant. in contrast, there was a substantially higher rate of early posttreatment severe visual loss in the resection group (p = .0008, mantel-haenszel test).
an in vitro evaluation of an artificial heart. interactions between human blood and the penn state artificial heart were examined in vitro to study the effects of various operating conditions on the hematologic response. a dual-loop recirculating flow system that accommodated human blood was developed and blood was subjected for 3 hr to various operating conditions known to alter fluid mechanics in the artificial ventricle. the operating conditions investigated were: 60 beats/min at 50% systolic duration, 60 beats/min at 30% systolic duration, and 90 beats/min at 50% systolic duration. quantification of plasma free hemoglobin provided a direct indicator of hemolysis in the flow system. platelet number and beta-thromboglobulin levels were monitored to investigate thrombotic activity, and levels of complement 3a were measured to examine complement system activation. the system was effective in demonstrating the relative hemolytic properties of the operating conditions. ninety beats/min induced 37% more hemolysis than 60 beats/min at 50% systolic duration, and 50% systolic duration induced 32% more hemolysis than 30% systolic duration at 60 beats/min. there were no statistically significant changes in either platelet number or beta-thromboglobulin levels during the 3 hr recirculation period. increases were seen in complement 3a levels, but these appeared to be surface-induced and not sensitive to the different operating conditions. these studies demonstrate the usefulness of the flow system in examining the relative hemolytic properties of the artificial ventricle, and suggest that bulk turbulent stresses may play a more important role than laminar wall shear stresses in mediating blood damage in this artificial ventricle.
calcium regulating hormones in essential hypertension. importance of gender. alterations of calcium metabolism have been described in human essential hypertension and experimental hypertension. we investigated the interrelationship of parathyroid hormone (pth) and 1,25(oh)2-vitamin d (1,25(oh)2d) in patients with untreated essential hypertension as compared to normotensive controls. the hypertensive subjects (n = 75; 43 men, 32 women) had a mean blood pressure of 138 +/- 8/95 +/- 5 mm hg as compared with 120 +/- 11/80 +/- 8 in the normotensive group (n = 40; 22 men, 18 women). serum pth was measured with an intact molecule immunochemiluminometric assay and 1,25(oh)2d was measured with radioimmunoassay after hplc separation. hypertensive men had pth levels that were 36% higher than normotensive men (5.3 +/- 2.9 v 3.9 +/- 0.8 pmol/l, p = .005). when blood pressure was analyzed as a continuous variable, there was a direct correlation between it and serum pth in men (r = .31, p = .004). in women, by contrast, there was no difference in serum pth between hypertensive and normotensive subjects and no relationship between blood pressure and the serum pth concentration. blood pressure was inversely correlated with serum phosphorus levels in both sexes (r = -0.20, p = .04). in men, the elevated serum pth levels and depressed serum phosphorus levels would have predicted that serum 1,25(oh)2d would be higher in the hypertensive subjects. however, that was not observed, as serum 1,25(oh)2d was slightly lower in hypertensive (38.3 +/- 15.2 pg/ml) than normotensive men (42.7 +/- 11.3, p = .21).
extracorporeal ldl cholesterol removal: role of ldl-pheresis in combination with other hypolipidemic therapy to regress vascular disease. the direct relationship between hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis has resulted in formal cholesterol-lowering recommendations for patients at increased risk. the incomplete response to therapy of some forms of hypercholesterolemia as well as not uncommon drug intolerance prompted the development of extracorporeal techniques to reduce serum cholesterol levels. nonhuman primate data and an analysis of human cholesterol epidemiology and reduction trials were used to establish guidelines that would maximize the likelihood of stabilizing or regressing established coronary artery atherosclerosis. these goals are a total cholesterol (tc) level of less than or equal to 150 mg/dl (3.9 mmol/l) and a ratio of tc to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl) of less than 2.8. selective, extracorporeal removal of ldl cholesterol (ldl-pheresis) was combined with diet and hypolipidemic drugs in a pilot study at the rogosin institute to achieve these lipid end-points. technical aspects of ldl-pheresis, the background rationale for its use as part of a combined hypolipidemic therapy, the initial experience at the rogosin institute, and plans for future studies and applications are presented.
interactions between substance p, calcitonin gene-related peptide, taurine and excitatory amino acids in the spinal cord. using in vivo microdialysis in the dorsal spinal cord of the rat, we have previously observed increases in glutamate and aspartate during exposure to a noxious stimulus. the present investigation was designed to determine whether these increases may be mediated by substance p. infusion of 1 mm of substance p in the dialysis fluid increased the concentrations of glutamate and aspartate, similar to the response seen during noxious stimulation. in addition, substance p also increased the concentrations of the inhibitory amino acids glycine and taurine. calcitonin gene-related peptide, previously shown to enhance substance p-induced biting and scratching behavior, produced no effect on amino acid release by itself but potentiated the apparent release of taurine by substance p. to assess the importance of substance p-induced amino acid release in sensory processing, we examined the influence of taurine and of excitatory amino acid antagonists on the biting and scratching behavior produced by excitatory amino acids and substance p. taurine selectively inhibited only substance p-induced biting and scratching while excitatory amino acid antagonists inhibited only excitatory amino acid-induced behavior. to further explore the ability of taurine to inhibit the substance p-induced behavior, 3 tests of nociception were then used. pretreatment with taurine inhibited the nociceptive-related writhing behavior produced by an intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid in mice but failed to alter the latency of response in the hot plate or tail flick assay.
childhood blindness in peru. a survey of childhood blindness in peruvian children was done. although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions, measles accounted for almost 10% of blindness. with widespread measles immunization, this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced.
depression of serum melatonin in patients with primary breast cancer is not due to an increased peripheral metabolism. serum melatonin and its main metabolic product 6-sulfatoxymelatonin were determined in 17 patients with breast cancer (bc) with either a fresh primary tumor (nine) or a secondary tumor (eight) as well as in four patients with untreated benign breast disease (controls). circadian rhythms were detected in all groups with acrophases around 2 am for melatonin and around 3 am for 6-sulfatoxymelatonin. the nocturnal melatonin and 6-sulfatoxymelatonin concentrations were significantly depressed in the group of patients with primary breast cancer compared with controls (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.025). the circadian amplitudes of melatonin and 6-sulfatoxymelatonin were also depressed by 81% (p less than 0.01) and 63% (p less than 0.01). in contrast, patients with secondary bc had nocturnal melatonin and 6-sulfatoxymelatonin concentrations and amplitudes similar to controls. these results demonstrate that the depression of circulating melatonin in patients with primary bc is not due to an enhanced degradation to 6-sulfatoxymelatonin in the liver but must be due to a reduced activity of the pineal gland.
two types of abnormal somatosensory evoked potentials in chronic cerebellar ataxias. to investigate subclinical sensory impairment in spinocerebellar degenerations, median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) were examined in 16 patients with chronic cerebellar ataxia who were originally diagnosed by clinical neurologists as having olivopontocerebellar atrophy (opca). two types of abnormal sep patterns were found in six patients. two patients had the sep pattern of peripheral neuropathy, which was also detected by peripheral sensory nerve conduction studies. four patients had abnormal seps seen in patients with the lesions in the central nervous system (dorsal column, medial lemniscus). magnetic resonance imaging (mri) showed multiple sclerosis (ms). it is possible that clinically diagnosed opca sometimes includes a similar form of friedreich's ataxia with subclinical sensory fiber neuropathy detected by seps and peripheral sensory conduction studies. in cases of lesions in the central nervous system demonstrated by both seps and mri, there must be a follow-up in order to make a final diagnosis. in those cases, an alternative diagnosis of ms must be considered when the temporal profile of symptoms and signs characteristic of ms is observed.
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia. not just a disease of children. rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community. we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever (arf) in west virginia. this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years. in contrast to the other reports, nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults, more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf. in these adults with recurrences, none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation. carditis was present in seven adults, two without a history of carditis. arthritis was present in all adult patients. these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood. furthermore, our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf, especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection.
outcome and predictors of outcome in pediatric submersion victims receiving prehospital care in king county, washington predictors of outcome in pediatric submersion victims treated by seattle and king county's prehospital emergency services were studied. victims less than 20 years old were identified from hospital admissions and paramedic and medical examiners' reports. the proportion of fatal or severe outcomes in patients were compared with various risk factors. of 135 patients, 45 died and 5 had severe neurologic impairment. a subset of 38 victims found in cardiopulmonary arrest had a 32% survival rate, with 67% of survivors unimpaired or only mildly impaired. the two risk factors that occurred most commonly in victims who died or were severely impaired were submersion duration greater than 9 minutes (28 patients) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation duration longer than 25 minutes (20 patients). both factors were ascertained in the prehospital phase of care. submersion duration was associated with a steadily increasing risk of severe or fatal outcomes: 10% risk (7/67) for 0 to 5 minutes, 56% risk (5/9) for 6 to 9 minutes, 88% risk (21/25) for 10 to 25 minutes, 100% risk (4/4) for greater than 25 minutes. none of 20 children receiving greater than 25 minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation escaped death or severe neurologic impairment. our rates for saving all victims, particularly victims in cardiopulmonary arrest, are considerably higher than has been reported before the children. prompt prehospital advanced cardiac life support is the most effective means of medical intervention for the pediatric submersion victim. prehospital information provided the most valuable predictors of outcome.
salvage chemotherapy for patients with germ cell tumors. the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center experience (1979-1989). twenty-eight of 124 (23%) advanced germ cell tumor (gct) patients who were treated on four successive platin-based induction regimens and who failed to achieve a durable complete response (cr) remain alive (median follow-up, 50 months). an analysis of prognostic factors for response and survival was conducted on the 94 patients who received salvage chemotherapy. survival and/or response to salvage therapy were significantly enhanced for patients with a prior cr to induction chemotherapy, treatment with a cisplatin-based salvage regimen, a testis primary site, a normal serum human chorionic gonadotropin level, a normal serum lactate dehydrogenase level, one site of metastasis, and an indiana class of 6 or less. patients with a prior incomplete response (ir) had a particularly poor prognosis (p = 0.00007) with only 4 of 52 (9%) patients alive (median follow-up, 37 months) compared with 15 of 42 (36%) patients with a prior best response of a cr (median follow-up, 35 months). the poor survival of patients who fail to achieve a durable cr to induction chemotherapy warrants the continued investigation of new salvage therapy. the identification of prognostic features may direct salvage therapy and aid in the interpretation of clinical trials of salvage regimens.
hepatic lesions in the rabbit induced by acoustic cavitation. tissue damage during shock-wave lithotripsy is presumably secondary to cavitation phenomena involving the collapsus of gas bubbles in a fluid. to enhance shock-wave-related hepatic lesions, intravascular gas microbubbles were administered. three groups of eight rabbits each received either 500 shock waves focused on the right hepatic lobe (group 1), gas microbubbles as a mixture of 50 cm3 of air with 50 cm3 of gelatin infused through an arterial catheter (group 2), or 500 shock waves and gas microbubbles simultaneously (group 3). in group 1, two animals had two to three subcapsular hepatic hematomas (diameter, less than 5 mm) and five had one to five intraparenchymal hematomas (less than 1 mm). in group 2, a moderate liver congestion was observed in three animals. in group 3, all animals had numerous subcapsular and intraperenchymal hematomas (2-30 mm). the hematomas were centered around the portal spaces, associated with lacunae (0.5-5 mm in diameter). hematomas were also present on the anterior wall of intraabdominal organs. it was concluded that intravascular infusion of gas microbubbles into the path of a shock-wave generator dramatically enhances tissue damage. this technique, potentially useful in the treatment of hepatic tumors, needs refinement to confine lesions in a more uniform pattern to the targeted parenchyma.
high-normal blood pressure progression to hypertension in the framingham heart study. this study sought to determine if individuals with high-normal blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure of 85-89 mm hg) progress to hypertension more frequently than those with normal blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure less than 85 mm hg), thus advancing to a higher cardiovascular risk category. individuals from the framingham heart study were placed in normal and high-normal blood pressure categories and followed for 26 years for the development of hypertension. with hypertension defined as a diastolic blood pressure of 95 mm hg or greater or the initiation of antihypertensive therapy, 23.6% of men and 36.2% of women with normal blood pressure developed hypertension compared with 54.2% of men and 60.6% of women with high-normal blood pressure. the relative risk for the development of hypertension associated with high-normal blood pressure was 2.25 for men (95% confidence interval [ci], 1.8-2.8; p less than 0.0001) and 1.89 for women (95% ci, 1.5-2.3; p less than 0.0001). the age-adjusted relative risks estimated by the proportional hazards model were 3.36 for men and 3.37 for women (p less than 0.001). among those risk factors examined, baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressure, metropolitan relative weight, and change in weight over time were significant predictors of future hypertension in men and women whose initial blood pressure was normal. for men with high-normal blood pressure, systolic blood pressure and change in weight were identified as risk factors for future hypertension. these results indicate that the probability of individuals with blood pressure in the high-normal range developing hypertension is twofold to threefold higher than in those with normal blood pressure.
monoclonal antibody-purged autologous bone marrow transplantation therapy for multiple myeloma. eleven patients with plasma cell dyscrasias underwent high-dose chemoradiotherapy and anti-b-cell monoclonal antibody (moab)-treated autologous bone marrow transplantation (abmt). the majority of patients had advanced durie-salmon stage myeloma at diagnosis, all were pretreated with chemotherapy, and six had received prior radiotherapy. at the time of abmt, all patients demonstrated good performance status with karnofsky score of 80% or greater and had less than 10% marrow tumor cells. eight patients had residual monoclonal marrow plasma cells and 10 patients had paraprotein. following high-dose melphalan and total body irradiation (tbi) there were seven complete responses, three partial responses, and one toxic death. granulocytes greater than 500/mm3 were noted at a median of 21 (range 12 to 46) days posttransplant (pt) and untransfused platelets greater than 20,000/mm3 were noted at a median of 23 (12 to 53) days pt in 10 of the 11 patients. natural killer cells and cytotoxic/suppressor t cells predominated early pt, with return of b cells at 3 months pt and normalization of t4:t8 ratio at 1 year pt. less than 5% polyclonal marrow plasma cells were noted in all patients after transplant. three of the seven complete responders have had return of paraprotein, two with myeloma, and have subsequently responded to alpha 2 interferon therapy. eight patients are alive at 18.9 (8.9 to 43.1) months pt and four remain disease-free at 12.3, 17.5, 18.9, and 29 months pt. this preliminary study confirms that high-dose melphalan and tbi can achieve high response rates without unexpected toxicity in patients who have sensitive disease, and that moab-based purging techniques do not inhibit engraftment. although the follow-up is short- and long-term outcome to be determined, relapses post-abmt in these heavily pretreated patients suggest that abmt or alternative treatment strategies should be evaluated earlier in the disease course.
milk protein enteropathy after acute infectious gastroenteritis: experimental and clinical observations. animal models of allergic gastroenteropathy have defined both morphologic and physiologic changes that accompany the immune-mediated reaction to a dietary protein. in such models a broadening of the allergic response to other dietary proteins present in the gastrointestinal tract may occur during the localized anaphylactic reaction. the characteristic histologic intestinal findings of food protein-induced enteropathy may develop in selected infants with protracted diarrhea after infectious enteritis. mechanisms underlying the induction of this response remain to be explained, but they may in part be similar to the broadening of the hypersensitivity response seen in experimental models of allergic enteropathy.
effect of epilepsy and sleep deprivation on the rate of benign epileptiform transients of sleep. seventy-eight individuals with eeg records containing benign epileptiform transients of sleep (bets) were identified among 7,400 records reviewed in our laboratory in a 6-year period. the records contained no other abnormality in 51 patients (65%). genuine epileptiform discharges were found in the records of 19 patients; 14 had a history of epilepsy. thirty-five patients (45%) had a proven history of epilepsy with antiepileptic drug (aed) therapy. in the records of these patients, the mean number of bets per unit of time was significantly higher (11.88 +/- 2) than in the record of the rest of the laboratory population with bets (6.89 +/- 0.9) (p less than 0.02). among five conventional surface montages, ipsilateral ear referential montage (ierm) showed a significantly higher number of bets per unit of time than did any other surface montage used in the study. thirty-nine records (50%) were performed after sleep deprivation (sd). when only ierm was considered, sd records showed a significantly higher number of bets per unit of time (7.36 +/- 1.1) than did non-sd records (3.89 +/- 0.69) (p less than 0.01). our findings support the general consensus that individual bets may be normal variants, but a high occurrence of bets in the record should raise suspicion of underlying epilepsy.
examination of htlv-i integration in the skin lesions of various types of adult t-cell leukemia (atl): independence of cutaneous-type atl confirmed by southern blot analysis. the various clinical features of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma (atl) are frequently accompanied by skin eruptions. recently, a cutaneous type of atl has been proposed by clinical studies. we analyzed the viral integration of human t-cell leukemia virus-i (htlv-i) and monoclonal rearrangement of t-cell receptor (tcr) gene in blood lymphocytes and the cutaneous infiltrated cells of nine atl patients with various clinical features and skin eruptions. we classified them by the results of southern blot analysis and propose a cutaneous-type atl accordingly. in two of them, we could detect the monoclonal integration of htlv-i and t-cell monoclonality only in the skin but not in the peripheral lymphocytes. we also demonstrated the time course study in one patient. clinicians should be aware of the htlv-i positive cutaneous t cell lymphoma that can be named cutaneous-type atl. examination of viral integration and t-cell monoclonality in skin lesions is required to make an exact diagnosis of cutaneous atl.
progression of diabetic autonomic neuropathy over a decade in insulin-dependent diabetics. the prognosis for diabetics with autonomic neuropathy is little known. we therefore studied the progress of young insulin-dependent diabetics, first identified as having abnormal autonomic function 10-15 years ago. we have shown that the mortality of diabetics with symptomatic autonomic neuropathy is increased, but is less than previously reported. mortality in asymptomatic diabetics with an isolated abnormality in autonomic function tests is not increased. the heart rate variability declines at 1.02 +/- 0.47 (sd) per annum in diabetics with an initially normal heart rate variability. while symptoms of autonomic neuropathy do not usually remit even over a decade, they do not commonly progress. three groups of young insulin-dependent diabetics had heart rate variability tested between 1972 and 1977 and have been reviewed 10-15 years later. group a (n = 49) had symptomatic autonomic neuropathy and an abnormal heart rate variability (less than 12), group b (n = 24) were asymptomatic yet had an abnormal heart rate variability and group c (n = 38) were asymptomatic and had a normal heart rate variability (16-26). the 10-year survival in group a (73.4 per cent) was less (p less than 0.05) than in groups b (91.7 per cent) or c (89.5 per cent) which did not differ from each other. the 18 group a deaths were due predominantly to renal failure (n = 4), myocardial infarction in patients with nephropathy (n = 3) and sudden unexpected death (n = 3). the chief symptoms of autonomic neuropathy--diarrhoea, postural hypotension and gustatory sweating, were very persistent but did not necessarily deteriorate or become disabling in the majority of patients. the development of autonomic symptoms in asymptomatic patients with abnormal heart rate variability was uncommon over a decade.
anginal symptoms without ischemic electrocardiographic changes during ambulatory monitoring in men with coronary artery disease. episodes of angina pectoris without electrocardiographic (ecg) signs of myocardial ischemia during 24-hour ambulatory monitoring were studied in 128 patients with a history of stable angina, angiographically proven coronary artery disease and positive exercise test results. in all, 341 episodes of ischemic ecg changes (st-segment depression greater than 1 mm for greater than 1 minute) and 190 episodes of angina pectoris were observed: 86 episodes consisted of both ecg changes and angina pectoris, 255 episodes consisted only of ecg changes, and 104 episodes only of angina pectoris. duration and magnitude of st-segment deviation and heart rate at the onset of ischemia were similar in the 86 symptomatic and the 255 asymptomatic episodes with ecg changes. the 104 episodes of angina pectoris without ecg changes were detected in 44 patients (34%) (group a); 29 of them had only episodes with angina pectoris and 15 patients had both--episodes of angina pectoris with and without ecg changes. in 84 patients (66%) (group b) angina pectoris without ecg changes was not observed; all episodes were accompanied by ischemic ecg changes in these patients. no differences in the angiographic extent of coronary artery disease and in exercise test data were seen in both groups a and b; however, maximal st-segment depression during exercise testing was significantly greater in group b than in group a patients (2.4 +/- 0.8 mm vs 1.9 +/- 0.9 mm; p less than 0.05).
ventricular free-wall rupture after myocardial infarction. treatment and outcome. ventricular free-wall rupture remains one of the leading causes of death after myocardial infarction (mi). with increased abilities for diagnosis and resuscitation techniques, surgical correction of free-wall myocardial defects resulting from ischemia and necrosis may become a simple modality of treatment, resulting in improvement of the survival rate. we are reporting our experience with four patients with ventricular free-wall rupture after mi, with emphasis on clinical presentation, diagnosis, and surgical management.
the long-term prognosis of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest but no inducible ventricular tachycardia. the long-term prognosis of patients successfully resuscitated from cardiac arrest who do not have acute precipitating factors and in whom ventricular arrhythmias cannot be induced during baseline electrophysiologic testing is controversial. the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the long-term risk of recurrent sudden death and determine the clinical, angiographic, hemodynamic, and electrophysiologic predictors of recurrent cardiac arrest in such patients. twenty-six (37%) of 71 consecutive patients with a single episode of aborted sudden death did not have inducible ventricular arrhythmias (less than 7 intraventricular responses) during baseline drug-free electrophysiologic study and they form the basis of this report. their mean age was 54 +/- 13 (mean +/- sd) years and the left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) was 0.47 +/- 0.17. after a mean follow-up period of 16 months, 11 patients (42%) had a recurrent cardiac arrest (fatal in 10 patients). the actuarial incidence of recurrent cardiac arrest was 30 +/- 10% at 1 year and 55 +/- 13% at 3 years. patients with lvef less than or equal to 0.40 had a significantly higher occurrence of recurrent cardiac arrest than those with lvef greater than 0.40 (p = 0.02; 1-year actuarial incidence of 57 +/- 17% versus 13 +/- 19%). patients with recurrent sudden death had a significantly greater incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy (55% versus 7%; p = 0.02) and baseline frequent premature ventricular contractions (pvcs greater than 10/hr; 64% versus 17%, p = 0.036) or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (36% versus 0%; p = 0.37) than patients without these characteristics.
role of oxygen-derived free radicals in the pathogenesis of gastric mucosal lesions in rats. the role of oxygen-derived free radicals and lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal erosion was investigated in rat models produced by burn shock stress, by treatment with regional hyperthermia, platelet activating factor, and compound 48/80, and by ischemia-reperfusion. in all experimental models, the increase in the gastric erosions and in tba reactants in the gastric mucosa were significantly inhibited by the treatment with superoxide dismutase (sod) and/or catalase. pretreatment with allopurinol, a competitive inhibitor of xanthine oxidase, prevented considerably the gastric injury (a) induced by burn shock, (b) produced by treatment with compound 48/80, and (c) caused by ischemia-reperfusion. by the treatment with anti-rat neutrophil antibody, the gastric mucosal injuries induced by regional hyperthermia, platelet activating factor, and compound 48/80 were significantly inhibited; however, burn shock and ischemia-reperfusion injuries were not inhibited. these results suggest that oxygen-free radical and lipid peroxidation contribute to the formation of gastric mucosal lesions, and that the sources of oxygen radicals seem to be different among these experimental models.
neuropsychological outcome of survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. thirty patients resuscitated from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (15 with and 15 without postanoxic coma on admission) underwent a clinical examination and neuropsychological testing. in order to assess quality of life, they were compared to two matched control groups; 15 patients with previous myocardial infarction and 15 healthy subjects. none of the survivors showed severe neurologic impairment, and all had returned to self-sufficient physical activity. however, the behavior rating scale scores were significantly worse in patients with postanoxic coma. the processing ability linked to memory was significantly worse in the postanoxic coma group. mood disorders were also observed in this group, but they did not have pathological significance. the remarkably low incidence of neurologic and psychological sequelae in these resuscitated patients, particularly in those with early clinical evidence of severe cerebral damage, is an encouraging result that supports the therapeutic systems development and efforts in the management of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease: an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic study. this study was carried out to assess pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatograms of 50 patients with gall stone disease were analysed and the results compared with those obtained in 33 patients investigated for cholestatic jaundice who were found to have a normal biliary tree (control group). abnormal pancreatograms were obtained in 24 (48%) patients with gall stone disease and in only two (6%) in the control group; the differences were statistically significant (chi 2 = 14.3; p less than 0.001). the patients in the control group showed mild abnormalities as did those in the gall stone group. the frequency of various abnormalities were: mild 16 (32%), moderate five (10%), and severe three (6%). pancreatic duct abnormalities were more severe and occurred more frequently in patients with gall stones who had stones in the biliary tree than in patients with a normal biliary tree (postcholecystectomy patients, 55% v 25%) but the difference between the two groups just failed to be significant (chi 2 = 3.34). in conclusion, nearly half of all patients with gall stone disease have pancreatic duct abnormalities and in 16% these were severe enough to be labelled as chronic pancreatitis.
prospective study of a prosthetic h-graft portacaval shunt. this study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm gore-tex interposition h-graft portacaval shunt. thirty-six high-risk patients at the university of south florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period. portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting. these pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites; in addition, the incidence of encephalopathy was low. the 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67% of the patients, but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion. graft thrombosis occurred in four (11%) patients. all grafts were successfully revised, three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist. operative mortality was low (11%), and morbidity was unusual. the small-diameter h-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices.
helicobacter pylori and associated duodenal ulcer. twenty three children with coexistent duodenal ulcer and helicobacter pylori infection were treated with either two weeks of amoxycillin (25 mg/kg/day) in addition to six weeks of cimetidine, or cimetidine alone. endoscopy with antral and duodenal biopsies for urease test, microaerophilic culture, and histological studies were performed at entry, six weeks, 12 weeks, and at six months. children with persistent h pylori infection at six weeks were given a further two weeks' course of amoxycillin. h pylori persisted in all children not receiving amoxycillin treatment but cleared in six of the 13 children (46%) treated with amoxycillin. with failure of h pylori clearance at six months, only two out of six (33%) ulcers had healed and 50% of patients had experienced ulcer recurrence. in contrast, when h pylori remained cleared all ulcers healed and no ulcer recurred. persistent h pylori infection was associated with persistent gastritis and duodenitis despite endoscopic evidence of ulcer healing. detection and eradication of h pylori deserves particular attention in the routine management of duodenal ulceration in children.
acute renal failure in obstructive jaundice in cholangiocarcinoma. this study was aimed at defining the natural history of renal failure in obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma, which is an important health problem in northeastern thailand. sixty-four patients among a total of 130 patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to cholangiocarcinoma who developed acute renal failure were studied retrospectively. analysis was made with respect to clinical features, laboratory findings, and outcome. the development of renal failure before surgery was observed in all patients. it was nonoliguric in 80% and was associated with severe jaundice, gram-negative infection (42%), hypotension (31%), hypoproteinemia (30%), hyponatremia (56%), and hypokalemia (63%). the mean duration of renal failure was 2 weeks. all patients underwent surgery for the relief of jaundice. seventy-seven percent of the patients survived and had recovery of renal function after the relief of jaundice. twenty-three percent of the patients died of infection. clinical data highlight the higher serum bilirubin levels and the frequent occurrence of hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and hypotension in renal failure. their possible roles in contributing to the development of renal failure are discussed.
hexamethonium and midazolam terminate dysrhythmias and hypertension caused by intracerebroventricular bupivacaine in rabbits. previous studies have demonstrated that bupivacaine administered directly into the central nervous system (cns) is capable of producing signs of bupivacaine cardiovascular toxicity. to investigate the mechanisms by which bupivacaine may act within the cns to produce cardiovascular toxicity, we studied four groups of halothane-anesthetized rabbits in which infusion of intracerebroventricular (icv) bupivacaine or intravenous (iv) phenylephrine resulted in dysrhythmias and hypertension. in group 1 (n = 5), icv bupivacaine (500 +/- 79 micrograms [mean +/- sem]) produced dysrhythmias lasting 73 +/- 13 min, whereas icv saline caused no dysrhythmias or hypertension. in group 2 (n = 9), icv bupivacaine-induced hypertension and dysrhythmias were abolished by icv midazolam in 4.4 +/- 0.6 min, and when dysrhythmias and hypertension recurred (22 +/- 0.9 min), hexamethonium (10 mg/kg iv) promptly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension (14 +/- 1 s). in group 3 (n = 10), icv bupivacaine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by increasing the inspired halothane concentration from 0.8 to 1.6%. in group 4 (n = 6), iv phenylephrine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by icv midazolam. these results suggest that icv bupivacaine produces dysrhythmias and hypertension by increasing autonomic nervous system (ans) outflow from the brain stem. the finding that peripheral autonomic blockade by hexamethonium rapidly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension supports this mechanism. we speculate that icv bupivacaine produces an increase in autonomic outflow by blockade of the inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) neurons that are known to be the principal tonic inhibitors of the ans.
molecular methods to detect the philadelphia chromosome. the ph1 chromosome has two molecular subtypes: a bcr-positive seen in cml and some cases of all, and the bcr-negative subtype mainly seen in all. in cml, because of the restriction of chromosome 22 breakpoints to the bcr, southern analysis to detect bcr rearrangements also can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome. in contrast, the translocation breakpoints on the ph1 chromosome are scattered in all, so that other methods such as pfge and pcr are necessary to detect the ph1 chromosome. in both cml and all, use of these methods to detect molecular abnormalities may be superior to cytogenetics in detecting chromosomal abnormalities. southern analysis also can be used in cml to map breakpoint locations within the bcr. this may offer prognostic information as to the length of chronic phase, but there is conflicting information as to the validity of this approach. the modified pcr (using cdna from mrna) can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome and to define which of the molecular subtypes are present. the exquisite sensitivity of this method, which is capable of detecting as little as a single abnormal molecule of rna or dna, makes it suited for the detection of minimal residual disease in both cml and all. this is particularly useful after intensive therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation. whether these low levels of fusion gene expression are of prognostic significance is still unclear.
dialysis arthropathy: a clinical, biochemical, radiological and histological study of 36 patients. out of a population of 97 haemodialysis patients, 36 patients with dialysis arthropathy were identified. dialysis arthropathy is a chronic symmetrical polyarthritis which affected 97 per cent of the patients who had been undergoing cuprophane haemodialysis for more than 10 years. it commonly affected the shoulders, hips, hands, knees and wrists, worsening with time and extending to other joints. fifty-eight per cent of the patients complained of morning stiffness and 47 per cent complained of exacerbation of shoulder pain during or after haemodialysis. half of the patients also suffered from carpal tunnel syndrome, which recurred and was associated with a long-lasting disability. the most common radiological abnormality was periarticular bone cysts, followed by articular erosions and a destructive spondyloarthropathy, but clinical symptoms were more common than radiological signs. patients with dialysis arthropathy had a higher c-reactive protein level than patients without arthropathy (18.6 mg/l versus 11.4 mg/l), indicative of an inflammatory process. some of the clinical manifestations of the disease correlated with levels of c-reactive protein and ferritin. serum ferritin levels correlated strongly with the units of blood transfused in the past five years (rs = 0.83), and the logarithm of ferritin level correlated weakly with c-reactive protein (r = 0.32). haemarthroses were documented in 19 per cent of patients. mean serum beta 2-microglobulin was elevated in the patients with (57.3 mg/l) and without arthropathy (50.7 mg/l), and there was no difference in the parathormone or aluminium levels between these groups. articular tissue was obtained in 25 patients; beta 2-microglobulin amyloid was present in 24. larger deposits were present in the capsular tissue, and these appeared to replace collagen bundles in eight cases. amyloid deposits replaced the lining layer in six cases. it is likely therefore that amyloid disrupts normal joint function by replacing normal joint tissue. mild chronic synovitis with haemosiderin deposition were found in approximately 60 per cent of cases. these findings suggest that amyloid derived from beta 2-microglobulin has a primary role in the pathogenesis of dialysis arthropathy, but there was also evidence of inflammatory processes. it is suggested that iron overload or haemarthroses might contribute to the inflammation, but other factors, such as dialysis-related bioincompatibility reactions, may also have a role.
the effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. the boston area anticoagulation trial for atrial fibrillation investigators background. nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke, presumably from atrial thromboemboli. there is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke. methods. we conducted an unblinded, randomized, controlled trial of long-term, low-dose warfarin therapy (target prothrombin-time ratio, 1.2 to 1.5) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. the control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin. results. a total of 420 patients entered the trial (212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years. prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time. only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently. there were 2 strokes in the warfarin group (incidence, 0.41 percent per year) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group (incidence, 2.98 percent per year), for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke (warfarin:control incidence ratio = 0.14; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.04 to 0.49; p = 0.0022). there were 37 deaths altogether. the death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group: 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year, for an incidence ratio of 0.38 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.17 to 0.82; p = 0.005). there was one fatal hemorrhage in each group. the frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups. the warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group (38 vs. 21 patients). conclusions. long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation, and can be quite safe with careful monitoring.
clinical recognition and evaluation of peptic ulcer disease. when a patient has epigastric pain that worsens 1 to 3 hours after meals, the possibility of peptic ulcer disease should be considered. completely typical clinical presentations in patients younger than age 50 justify empirical therapy when no physical or laboratory findings suggest a mimicking disorder. esophagogastroduodenoscopy should be undertaken when response to therapy is incomplete, symptoms recur quickly, or dyspeptic symptoms present for the first time in a patient older than age 50. when gastric ulcers are diagnosed radiographically, endoscopy and biopsy at multiple sites should be done to exclude malignant disease. intractable duodenal ulcers may necessitate endoscopic biopsy of antral and duodenal mucosa to rule out an associated helicobacter pylori infection, which may modify therapeutic approaches. zollinger-ellison syndrome is rare but should be suspected when ulcer disease presents atypically or aggressively or in families. diagnosis is not difficult to confirm.
gadolinium-mri in acute transverse myelopathy. a patient with acute transverse myelopathy (atm) had serial magnetic resonance imaging (mri) studies before and after administration of gadolinium (gd-dtpa). gd-dtpa-mri was useful in estimating the pathologic extent and residual deficit expected in atm.
loss of nocturnal decline of blood pressure in hypertension due to chronic renal failure. the aim of this study was to assess the blood pressure profile of chronic renal failure in comparison with essential hypertension. thirty hypertensive patients with chronic renal failure due to non-vascular nephropathies were matched by age, sex, and mean 24 h blood pressure, with 30 patients affected by uncomplicated mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. they were studied in an open hospital ward. diet, meal times, sleep times, and activity schedules were standardized. noninvasive, automatic, blood pressure recordings were performed for 48 h at sampling intervals of 15 min. the mean 24 h blood pressure almost coincided in the two groups. however, in essential hypertension a mean (+/- sd) nocturnal fall of systolic and diastolic blood pressure was found (12.7 +/- 3.8 and 12.9 +/- 4.8 mm hg, respectively), while renal patients displayed an average nocturnal increase of 2.7 +/- 8.9 mm hg and 3.7 +/- 7.8 (p less than .001). the renal patients had also higher heart rates, with a significantly blunted nocturnal fall (4.4 +/- 4.5 beats/min as compared to 9.3 +/- 3.1 beats/min of essential hypertension; p less than .001). among the renal patients, the day-night blood pressure changes showed no significant correlation with age, creatinine clearance, hematocrit, nocturnal change in heart rate, or day or night mean blood pressure levels. these data suggest that an abnormal day-night pattern of blood pressure is present in chronic renal failure patients independently from external interfering factors. hence, casual measurements of blood pressure confined to daytime may underestimate a hypertensive condition associated with chronic renal failure.
congenital diaphragmatic hernia: impact of prostanoids in the perioperative period. a prospective study of 10 neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and five controls to determine the importance of prostanoid concentrations perioperatively and the relation with persistent pulmonary hypertension (pph) is reported. in neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia postoperative concentrations of the vasoconstrictor thromboxane b2 rose significantly and were higher during episodes of pph; this rise may provoke pph and subsequent right to left shunting.
abnormal baroreflex control of heart rate in decompensated congestive heart failure and reversal after compensation. congestive heart failure (chf) causes impairment of baroreflex control of heart rate (hr). to determine if this derangement is reversible, the cardiac chronotropic control was assessed in 10 patients with class iv chronic chf of various etiologies before and after compensation achieved by bed rest, salt restriction, diuretics and vasodilators. mean time between the 2 studies was 15 +/- 3 days. the management was modified 3 days before the second autonomic evaluation, so as to reestablish the same diet and pharmacologic conditions of the previous study. compensation led to significant reduction in symptom-based class, body weight, and pulmonary and systemic congestion. mean +/- standard error of the mean hr responses (beats/min) before and after compensation were, respectively: (1) to atropine (0.04 mg/kg): 10 +/- 2 and 27 +/- 2 (p less than 0.01); (2) to handgrip (30% maximum capacity, 1 minute): 9 +/- 2 and 19 +/- 3 (p less than 0.005); (3) to headup tilt (5 minutes): 4 +/- 3 and 20 +/- 4 (p less than 0.005). mean +/- standard error of the mean baroreflex sensitivity (ms/mm hg) of rr responses to phenylephrine and amyl nitrate-induced changes in systolic pressure was, respectively, in each condition: phenylephrine, 0.9 +/- 0.2 and 8 +/- 2.3 (p less than 0.05); amyl nitrate, 0.3 +/- 0.2 and 4.1 +/- 1.1 (p less than 0.05). a significant correlation between improvement in hr responses to atropine and tilt and changes in body weight was obtained. these findings show a reversible component of impaired baroreflex control of hr in severe chf, possibly due to its congestive effects.
neonatal subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis: mri, ct, and ultrasound correlation. we describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor, diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. we compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor.
treatment of acute hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage with serial lumbar puncture. computed tomography demonstrated acute hydrocephalus less than or equal to 72 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage in 24 (23%) of 104 patients. of these 24 patients, six (25%) had no impairment of consciousness. in nine (11%) of the remaining 80 patients, acute hydrocephalus developed within 1 week after subarachnoid hemorrhage. with the exception of three patients, all 104 patients received antifibrinolytic treatment. delayed clinical deterioration from acute hydrocephalus occurred in seven (29%) of the 24 patients with acute hydrocephalus on admission and in six (8%) of the remaining 80 patients. serial lumbar puncture was performed in 17 patients. twelve (71%) of the 17 patients treated with serial lumbar puncture, including 10 (77%) of the 13 patients with delayed deterioration from acute hydrocephalus after admission, achieved improvement in the level of consciousness. four of these 17 patients (4% of all 104 patients) required an internal shunt. no patient deteriorated from coning following serial lumbar puncture. the rebleeding rate within 12 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage in hydrocephalic patients with serial lumbar puncture was not higher than the rate in those without hydrocephalus (two [12%] of 17 versus nine [13%] of 71). neither meningitis nor ventriculitis was observed. we conclude that if neither a hematoma with a mass effect nor an obstructive element exists, cerebrospinal fluid drainage with serial lumbar puncture is a good alternative to ventricular drainage in patients with acute hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage.
successful control of bleeding from gastric antral vascular ectasia (watermelon stomach) by laser photocoagulation. we report a case of gastric antral vascular ectasia in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis in whom chronic blood loss was a major problem. she required repeated blood transfusions that were complicated by reactions and still had persistent anaemia. she was treated with laser phototherapy in the form of quadrantic photocoagulation with a neodynium yttrium-aluminium-garnet laser. this greatly improved the endoscopic appearance of the gastric lesions and effectively controlled blood loss. she required no further transfusions. bleeding recurred after 11 months which was controlled by further laser photocoagulation.
single unit analysis of the human ventral thalamic nuclear group. activity correlated with movement. during neurosurgical operations for the relief of movement disorders, single thalamic neurons (n = 107) were identified with activity which was related to verbally cued active movements (movement-related cells). the activity of each neuron was examined during different contralateral movements in order to determine the movement which was associated with the most consistent and pronounced change in firing rate (the optimal response). the optimal response was determined by analysis of histograms of neuronal activity which were constructed by using the onset of emg activity to synchronize successive repetitions of the active movement. movement-related cells exhibited optimal responses associated with such movements as making a fist, extension or flexion of the wrist, flexing or extending the elbow, pointing with the entire upper extremity, extending the tongue and lifting the leg. most movement-related cells recorded in a single parasagittal plane in an individual patient had optimal responses related to movements involving the same part of the body. movement-related cells were classified into those that were activated in response to somatosensory stimulation (combined cells, n = 20) and those which were not (voluntary cells, n = 87). combined cells were activated in advance of emg activity during active movement and so could be distinguished from cells responding only to sensory stimulation (sensory cells). movement-related cells (combined and voluntary cell types) were located anterior to sensory cells and tended to show a mediolateral somatotopic organization parallel to that of sensory cells with cutaneous receptive fields. combined cells responded to somatosensory stimulation of the same part of the body as that involved in the active movement related to the optimal response of the cell. combined cells responding to passive movements of a joint always had their optimal response during active movement about the same joint. the activity of combined cells during parkinsonian tremor may clarify the role of sensory feedback in tremor.
postpartum hemorrhage: placenta accreta, uterine inversion, and puerperal hematomas. puerperal hematomas, although rare, can be potentially morbid or life-threatening events. early surgical management, including clot evacuation, layered closure, drainage, antibiotics, and fluid replacement (including blood), usually result in satisfactory outcome. prevention is clearly preferable and often achievable with careful initial repair of episiotomies and lacerations.
should alcoholics compete equally for liver transplantation? the circumstances of liver transplantation are unique among organ transplantation because of the dire, absolute scarcity of donor livers and the predominance of one disease--alcohol-related end-stage liver disease--as the principal cause of liver failure. we propose that patients who develop end-stage liver disease through no fault of their own should have higher priority for receiving a liver transplant than those whose end-stage liver disease results from failure to obtain treatment for alcoholism. we base our proposal on considerations of fairness and on whether public support for liver transplantation can be maintained if, as a result of a first-come, first-served approach, patients with alcohol-related end-stage liver disease receive more than half the available donor livers. we conclude that since not all can live, priorities must be established for the use of scarce health care resources.
aids for visual impairment. this article provides only a flavour of the type and range of aids available to the visually impaired person. many other aids for leisure, learning, and daily living are illustrated in the rnib equipment and games catalogue.
pharmacologic treatment of noncognitive behavioral disturbances in elderly demented patients. fifty-nine elderly residents of long-term care facilities who had dsm-iii diagnoses of dementia were studied in an 8-week randomized, double-blind comparison trial of haloperidol, oxazepam, and diphenhydramine to test the efficacy of these agents in the treatment of clinically significant behavioral disturbances in patients with dementia. all three agents demonstrated modest but significant efficacy as measured by clinician ratings of agitated behavior and activities of daily living. the absolute magnitude of improvement was greater for haloperidol and diphenhydramine than for oxazepam, but differences among groups did not approach statistical significance. frequencies of acute adverse events during the trial were similar across the drug treatment groups. although these drugs may differ in terms of long-term safety and efficacy, they appear to be equivalent for short-term management of agitated behavior in severely demented patients.
a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection. we present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection. etiologic factors are discussed.
stair climbing as an exercise test to predict the postoperative complications of lung resection. two years' experience. the results of a clinically performed preoperative stair climb was compared to the presence of postthoracotomy complications in the retrospective hospital record review of 54 adult men. the stair climb was a maximum of five flights (125 steps) performed at the patient's rate and terminated at his request. pulmonary function measurements and facets of the stair climb physiology were also examined in reference to the presence, type, and severity of complications experienced. most minor complications such as transient arrhythmias, atelectasis, and pneumonia were clearly not predicted by the stair climb performance. the ability to climb three flights preoperatively most clearly separated those patients having the longer postoperative intubation and hospital stay, greater frequency of complications, and cumulative complication score (p less than 0.005). this retrospective study did not have sufficient numbers of fatal cardiopulmonary complications to exclude the possibility that these may be predicted by the results of this simple test.
sensory visual testing in idiopathic intracranial hypertension: measures sensitive to change. management decisions in idiopathic intracranial hypertension (iih; pseudotumor cerebri) are based on the presence and change of visual loss. to study this change, we evaluated tests of sensory visual function over time. we used the results of the right eye of 19 patients whose clinical status improved (decrease in papilledema grade), and compared the outcome measures of the initial and final examinations. contrast sensitivity testing showed significant improvement in the middle and high spatial frequency targets. snellen acuity and color tests did not change significantly over the same period. both goldmann and automated visual field grade significantly improved from the initial to the final visit, while the presence of a defect on confrontation visual fields did not. numerical analyses of automated perimetry thresholds also showed significant improvement. generalized loss, most pronounced on the nasal side of the visual field, was present on the initial examination. generalized improvement followed, least in the central and inferior paracentral areas. patients with iih should be followed with contrast sensitivity testing and perimetry using a disease-specific strategy.
effect of activity on supraventricular tachyarrhythmias after coronary artery bypass surgery. the purpose of this study was to evaluate patient activities, professional staff activities, backrest position, and diurnal variations as factors that may contribute to the onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (svt) after coronary artery bypass surgery (cabg). the activities surrounding the recognition of first-onset svt, as well as preoperative and postoperative data and patient characteristics were examined in 249 patients having cabg. one hundred seventy-three patients qualified for the study; 28% of these patients (n = 49) had svt. no statistical difference was found between the subjects with svt and those without svt when sex, cross-clamp time, creatine kinase peak, hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, and number of bypasses were examined. patients who had svt were older than those who did not: 64.8 years for the svt group versus 60.7 years for the non-svt group (p less than 0.01). svt was rare in the first 24 hours after surgery, whereas 60% of the cases occurred during the next 48 hours, without significant diurnal variation: mean time of onset was 11:50 am. no particular activity of the patient or nurse influenced the onset of svt during the postoperative period in this group.
primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates. primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta was attempted in 10 consecutive neonates (age range 2-23 days). the coarctation site was crossed and the balloon inflated in all but one patient. in two patients with associated severe isthmal hypoplasia there was no change in the gradient after dilatation. in the remainder, the residual gradients were trivial and angiography showed complete relief of coarctation. severe recoarctation developed 5-12 weeks after dilatation in five patients, each considered to have had an excellent initial result. the coarctation was rapidly progressive in three patients in whom doppler studies within two weeks of the development of recoarctation had shown no significant gradient. in the other two patients progressive restenosis was charted by doppler examinations over the course of 6-8 weeks. three patients had a second, initially successful, dilatation procedure. one patient remained well with no residual gradient 18 weeks later. stenosis recurred within eight weeks in the other two, and both have undergone successful surgical repair. balloon dilatation of a native coarctation of the aorta gave excellent immediate results in most neonates. severe isthmal hypoplasia is, however, a contraindication to balloon dilatation and early restenosis is an important problem. these results do not support the continued use of primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates.
neonatal monosodium glutamate abolishes corticotropin-releasing factor-induced epileptogenic activity in rats. intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of rat corticotropin-releasing factor (rcrf) at doses of 5-20 micrograms in rats induces epileptogenic activity characterized by pacemaker-like spikes localized in the hippocampal leads. such an effect was still present in rats neonatally treated with saline but was absent in those neonatally treated with monosodium glutamate (msg), a treatment that caused marked changes in the concentration of several brain neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in hypothalamic nuclei where crf is highly concentrated and is believed to induce endocrinologic and behavioral effects. the present results suggest the rcrf-induced spiking activity is mediated by activation of neuronal pathways sensitive to msg neurotoxic effect.
prediction of outcome in acute pancreatitis: a comparative study of apache ii, clinical assessment and multiple factor scoring systems. the apache ii severity of disease classification system has been examined prospectively in 160 patients with acute pancreatitis. using clinical and simple laboratory data apache ii was able to provide useful discrimination between uncomplicated, complicated and fatal attacks within a few hours of admission. peak apache ii scores (recorded during the first 3 days) had a prognostic accuracy similar to the multiple factor scoring systems, but then incurred a similar delay. patients could be graded according to their risk of death or of developing a major complication; no deaths occurred in patients with a peak apache ii score less than 10. apache ii can be repeated daily, uncomplicated attacks demonstrating falling scores in association with clinical improvement, in contrast to the rising scores associated with clinical deterioration in those dying early. apache ii appears to reflect any continuing disease activity and may prove a useful means of monitoring the course of the illness and response to therapy.
surgical treatment of cardiac myxomas: long-term results. between 1965 and 1988, 22 patients underwent 24 operations for cardiac myxomas. two patients had the complex myxoma syndrome. mitral valve replacement was required at initial operation in 2 patients. one patient died perioperatively, and 5 others died subsequently. the 16 surviving patients recently underwent evaluation at a mean duration of 9 years after operation. ten are asymptomatic and 6 have new york heart association class ii symptoms. nine patients continue to be employed. eleven are in sinus rhythm, 3 have permanent pacemakers, and 2 have chronic atrial arrhythmias. echocardiography showed atrioventricular valve insufficiency in 3 patients and reduced contractility in 4, but no new tumor recurrences. the long-term prognosis of this relatively large group of patients with cardiac myxomas has been good. patients without the complex myxoma syndrome had no recurrence, whereas 2 patients did require reoperation for mitral valve replacement. long-term disability and chronic arrhythmias have been infrequent, and functional status and employability of these patients have been very good.
febrile status epilepticus as part of a study of status epilepticus in children (maytal j, shinnar s, moshe sl, alvarez la. pediatrics. 1989; 83:323-331); 44 children with febrile convulsions lasting more than 30 minutes were followed for a mean of 28 months (range 4 to 72). thirty children were followed prospectively. children with prior afebrile seizures or evidence of acute central nervous system infection were excluded. nine (20%) children had prior neurological deficits. the duration of the febrile seizure was 0.5 to 1 hour in 41 cases (85%), 1 to 2 hours in 5 (10%), and greater than 2 hours in 2 children (5%). no child died or developed new neurological deficits following the seizures. the risk of recurrent seizures was increased, but only in the group with prior neurological abnormality. six (66%) of these children had subsequent febrile seizures compared with 12 (34%) of the normal children (p = .08). three (33%) had recurrent febrile status epilepticus compared with only 1 (3%) normal child (p = .023). the 2 children in the prospective arm of the study with recurrent febrile status epilepticus were both neurologically abnormal (p = .035). all 3 of the children who subsequently had afebrile seizures (2 prospective) were neurologically abnormal (p = .006 overall, p = .035 for prospective only). it is concluded that the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in a neurologically impaired child is a risk factor for subsequent febrile as well as afebrile seizures. the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in an otherwise normal child does not significantly increase the risk for subsequent febrile (brief or prolonged) or afebrile seizures in the first few years following the episode.
pharmacology of pravadoline: a new analgesic agent. pravadoline is a new chemical entity with analgesic activity in humans. this report describes the pharmacology of pravadoline and compares the activity of pravadoline with that of two major classes of analgesics, the opioids and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids). like the nsaids, pravadoline inhibited the synthesis of prostaglandins (pgs) in mouse brain both in vitro (ic50, 4.9 microm) and ex vivo (ed50, 20 mg/kg p.o.) and displayed antinociceptive activity in rodents subjected to a variety of chemical, thermal and mechanical nociceptive stimuli. administration of pravadoline prevented the writhing response induced by i.p. administration of acetylcholine (ed50, 41 mg/kg p.o.) or pge2 (ed50, 24 mg/kg p.o.) and prolonged the response latency induced by tail immersion in hot water at a temperature of 55 degrees c (minimum effective dose, 100 mg/kg s.c.). in the rat, treatment with pravadoline prevented acetic acid-induced writhing (ed50, 15 mg/kg p.o.), brewer's yeast-induced hyperalgesia (randall-selitto test) (minimum effective dose, 1 mg/kg p.o.), the nociceptive response induced by paw flexion in the adjuvant-arthritic rat (ed50, 41 mg/kg p.o.) and bradykinin-induced head and forepaw flexion (ed50, 78 mg/kg, p.o.). the antinociceptive activity of pravadoline cannot be explained by an opioid mechanism, because pravadoline-induced antinociception was not antagonized by naloxone (1 mg/kg s.c.) and pravadoline did not bind to opioid receptors at concentrations up to 10 microm. however, like the opioid analgesics, pravadoline diminished the electrically induced twitch response of mouse vas deferens preparations, but, in contrast to opioids, this action of pravadoline was not attenuated by naloxone. the possibility is discussed that this effect of pravadoline upon isolated tissues may contribute to its antinociceptive activity. in contrast to nsaids, pravadoline was more potent ex vivo as an inhibitor of the formation of pgs in brain vs. stomach. in addition, pravadoline failed to produce gastrointestinal lesions when administered p.o. to rats or mice, and did not possess significant anti-inflammatory activity at antinociceptive doses. also unlike nsaids, pravadoline inhibited rat gastrointestinal transit when administered at doses similar to those which were antinociceptive. the overall pharmacologic profile of pravadoline suggests that the compound may be capable of managing more diverse or more severe pain than is achieved by anti-inflammatory analgesics, without producing side effects commonly associated with either the opioid or the nonopioid analgesics.
multimodality cisplatin treatment in nonresectable alpha-fetoprotein-positive hepatoma. twenty-eight patients with alpha-fetoprotein-positive (afp+) nonresectable hepatoma have been enrolled in a new multimodality phase i, ii program. induction therapy consisted of 50 mg/m2 intravenous cisplatin followed by 2100 cgy irradiation to the tumor volume in seven fractions over 10 days. hepatic arterial infusion of 50 mg/m2 cisplatin (ia-cddp) was then administered at monthly intervals. twenty-one patients have completed induction and at least two cycles of ia-cddp. twelve-month cumulative survival was 52% for all 28 patients and 69% for the 21 patients completing induction and ia-cddp. median survival has not yet been reached. response rate (complete and partial) was 36% overall and 48% among the 21 patients who completed treatment. the improved survival of the present series of patients as well as the minimal hematologic toxicity suggests possible further integration of new modalities for therapy.
diagnosis, classification, and course of myelodysplastic syndromes. the myelodysplastic syndromes are bone marrow stem cell disorders that result in disorderly and ineffective hematopoiesis. they are prognostically heterogenous. approximately one third of cases evolve to acute myeloid leukemia. many additional cases terminate in severe bone marrow failure. the french-american-british working group classification of the myelodysplastic syndromes defines morphologic and prognostic groups. cytogenetic and in vitro cell culture characteristics are important prognostic indicators.
single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor. a case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented. the rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed, as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion.
induction of dna fragmentation in chronic b-lymphocytic leukemia cells. chronic lymphocytic leukemia of b cell type (b-cll) is a neoplastic disorder characterized by the accumulation of small resting lymphocytes in the periphery. the phenotype of these cells suggests that they are "frozen" at an early stage of maturation. glucocorticoid hormones are commonly used to treat patients with b-cll, resulting in a reduction in the peripheral lymphocyte count by an undefined mechanism. here we report that glucocorticoids stimulate dna fragmentation characteristic of a suicide process known as apoptosis or programmed cell death (pcd) in suspensions of cells from patients with b-cll. the effects can be mimicked by ca2+ ionophore and involve a sustained increase in the cytosolic ca2+ concentration. specific antibodies binding to membrane-associated igm on the leukemic cells can also induce pcd by a similar mechanism. phorbol esters block dna fragmentation and cell killing in response to all of the agents, suggesting that activation of protein kinase c desensitizes the cells to pcd. targeting the b-cll cells with antibodies that induce an unbalanced, sustained ca2+ increase may therefore represent a rational strategy for the destruction of leukemic cells.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan use. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989. we describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations, pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function, fatigue, rashes, edema and weight gain, weight loss, muscle weakness and shortness of breath. laboratory findings included eosinophilia (often marked), normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values. on biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes, histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution. invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20%. capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25% of cases. two patients improved with no therapy. ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone. three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died. the relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed.
decreased toxicity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward hepatocytes isolated from rats with acute inflammatory reaction. we have recently demonstrated that polymorphonuclear neutrophils were toxic to hepatocytes through a protease-mediated mechanism. since synthesis of antiproteases is markedly increased during acute inflammatory reaction, the aim of this work was to investigate the toxicity of neutrophils against normal vs. inflammatory rat hepatocytes. acute inflammatory reaction was induced by subcutaneous injection of turpentine 24 hr before the experiments. hepatocytes from normal and turpentine-treated rats were isolated by collagenase digestion. they were incubated with human neutrophils stimulated by 1 mg/ml opsonized zymosan. cytotoxicity was quantified by the percentage of alanine aminotransferase activity released by hepatocytes in culture medium after an 18-hr incubation period. by comparison to normal hepatocytes, inflammatory hepatocytes were more resistant to the toxicity of neutrophils. at a neutrophil/hepatocyte ratio of 20:1, the alanine aminotransferase activity releases were 53.7% +/- 5.4% (mean +/- 1 s.e.) and 27.4% +/- 4.8% for normal and inflammatory hepatocytes, respectively. similarly, inflammatory hepatocytes were found to be less sensitive than normal hepatocytes to the toxic effect of purified neutrophil cathepsin g. in contrast, both types of hepatocytes exhibited the same sensitivity to h2o2 generated by a system consisting of glucose and glucose oxidase. two arguments suggested that the resistance of inflammatory hepatocytes to protease toxicity was explained by an increased production of antiproteases by these cells: (a) when tested against cathepsin g and porcine pancreatic elastase activities, the protease inhibitory capacity of conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes was higher than that of conditioned medium from normal hepatocytes; (b) conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes markedly reduced the toxicity of stimulated neutrophils as that of cathepsin g.
bleeding time prolongation with streptokinase and its reduction with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin. the mechanism by which treatment with thrombolytic agents causes bleeding is not known. recently, frequency of bleeding events has been shown to correlate with bleeding time, particularly in individuals treated with aspirin. we examined the effects of streptokinase (20,000-60,000 iu/kg) on bleeding time in 40 rabbits pretreated with aspirin, a model for fibrinolytic therapy. we then tested the effects of 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin (ddavp) (0.3 microgram/kg), an agent known to reduce bleeding time in a variety of bleeding disorders, in 20 rabbits and compared the results with those of a control group of rabbits receiving normal saline placebo. aspirin increased the bleeding time from a baseline mean +/- sem value of 119 +/- 15 to 191 +/- 34 seconds in the control group and from 114 +/- 6 to 188 +/- 18 seconds in the experimental group. the addition of streptokinase increased the bleeding time to 592 +/- 119 seconds in the control group and 810 +/- 114 seconds in the experimental group (p = ns). subsequent infusion of ddavp decreased the bleeding time in the experimental group to 302 +/- 29 seconds (p less than 0.01 versus streptokinase) compared with 572 +/- 79 seconds (p = ns versus streptokinase) in the control animals given saline placebo. in a subset of rabbits receiving aspirin and streptokinase (40,000-60,000 iu/kg), samples were obtained for platelet aggregation (n = 16), von willebrand factor antigen concentration (n = 17), and von willebrand factor multimer distribution (n = 14). maximal rates of adp-induced platelet aggregation were not affected by ddavp infusion, nor was the plasma concentration of von willebrand factor antigen, quantified by an immunoradiometric assay, significantly affected by ddavp infusion. furthermore, the von willebrand factor multimer ratio decreased with ddavp administration. these findings indicate that aspirin and streptokinase combined result in a marked increase in bleeding time that can be reduced by ddavp. this effect of ddavp is not accompanied by an increase in platelet aggregation response, plasma von willebrand factor antigen concentration, or von willebrand factor multimer ratio.
hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. a prospective, consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from grades 1 to v according to the classification of hunt and hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) and surgery. sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up. twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the sah and surgery. the mean time from the sah to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days (day of the sah) to 2 years (mean, 6.7 months). the seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients (31%) and as generalized in 20 patients (69%). all patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure. the risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were, in order of importance: a history of hypertension; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan; and the duration of coma after the ictus. of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension, 17 (20.0%) developed epilepsy. only 12 (5.4%) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures. the difference between the groups was significant (p = 0.0001). computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after the sah and surgery. postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan (p = 0.0005).
increased dna synthesis and repair-enzyme expression in lymphocytes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia resistant to nitrogen mustards. resistance to the nitrogen mustards in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) correlates with an enhanced removal of melphalan-induced dna interstrand cross-links. this finding suggests that dna repair enzymes may be involved in this process. the activity of 3-methyladenine-dna glycosylase, which can release altered bases, including adducts at the n-7 position of guanine, was increased significantly in lymphocytes from patients with resistant cll compared with those from untreated cll patients. since glycosylase activity varies with cell proliferation, the amount of [3h]thymidine incorporated into dna was determined and found to be elevated almost threefold in lymphocytes from patients with resistant cll. the ratio of glycosylase activity to level of thymidine incorporation did not differ between these two groups of patients. northern blot analysis of ercc1 gene (a putative dna repair enzyme involved in nucleotide excision repair) expression in lymphocytes from patients with cll revealed multiple gene transcripts (1.1, 3.4, and 3.8 kilobases). in addition, analysis of two samples revealed the presence of a 2.6-kilobase transcript. the 2.6-kilobase transcript was recognized by specific rna probes that hybridize to antisense ercc1 transcripts. levels of expression of the 1.1-kilobase protein encoding transcript in lymphocytes from patients with resistant cll were increased twofold to threefold above those of untreated patients with cll. these results indicate that increased expression of ercc1 and increased activity of 3-methyladenine-dna glycosylase occur with the development of resistance to the nitrogen mustards in patients with cll, suggesting a role for enhanced dna repair in this process.
catheter modification of the atrioventricular junction with radiofrequency energy for control of atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia. background. the utility of transcatheter application of radiofrequency energy to eliminate atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (avnrt) was investigated. methods and results. thirty-nine patients (mean age, 53 +/- 20 years; range 14-86 years) with medically refractory avnrt underwent perinodal ablation with radiofrequency energy. a custom-designed 6f catheter with a large (3-mm-long) distal electrode and interelectrode pacing of 2 mm was used in the majority of cases. the catheter used for ablation was initially positioned across the tricuspid anulus to obtain the largest his bundle electrogram, then withdrawn to obtain the largest atrial:ventricular electrogram ratio, with a small his bundle electrogram (less than or equal to 100 microv). each application of radiofrequency energy (350-550 khz, 16.2 +/- 5.2 w) was stopped after 60 seconds or if pr prolongation or an impedance rise was noted. the endpoints of the procedure were persistent modification of atrioventricular nodal conduction (either first-degree atrioventricular block or impairment of ventriculoatrial conduction) and noninducibility of avnrt before and during isoproterenol administration. radiofrequency energy was applied a mean of 6.8 +/- 3.5 times per session. after a mean follow-up of 8 +/- 3.0 months, 32 of the 39 patients (82%) have been free of avnrt, and did not have high grade av block. three patients (8%) developed complete atrioventricular block and had pacemakers implanted. two patients had unsuccessful initial procedures, and two patients had initially successful ablations but had recurrences of tachycardia 4-6 weeks later. elimination of avnrt appeared to be due to effects on the retrograde fast pathway in most patients. conclusions. radiofrequency ablation of the perinodal right atrium appears to be safe and effective for treatment of typical avnrt.
detection of breakpoint cluster region- negative and nonclonal hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo after transplantation of cells selected in cultures of chronic myeloid leukemia marrow. philadelphia (ph1) chromosome-positive clonogenic progenitors usually disappear within 4 to 6 weeks in long-term cultures established from the marrow of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (cml). in contrast, coexisting chromosomally normal hematopoietic cells are relatively well maintained. thus, even though normal cells are initially undetectable, they may become the predominant population. recently, we have begun to explore the potential of such cultures as a strategy for preparing cml marrow for autografting, and based on cytogenetic studies of the differential kinetics of ph1-positive and ph1-negative clonogenic cells, have chosen a 10-day period in culture to obtain maximal numbers of selectively enriched normal stem cells. here we present the results of molecular analyses of the cells regenerated in vivo for the initial three cml patients to be treated using this approach by comparison with the differentiated cells generated by continued maintenance of an aliquot of the autograft in vitro (using a slightly modified culture feeding procedure to enhance the production and release of cells into the nonadherent fraction after 4 weeks) for the one patient whose genotype made molecular analysis of clonality status also possible. these analyses showed that cells with a rearranged breakpoint cluster region (bcr) gene were not detectable by southern blotting in either in vitro or in vivo populations of mature cells that might be assumed to represent the progeny of primitive cells present at the end of the initial 10 days in culture. production of bcr-negative cells was also shown to be temporally correlated with the appearance of nonclonal hematopoietic cells both in culture and in vivo. these findings provide support for the view that prolonged maintenance of cml marrow cells in long-term culture may allow molecular characterization of both the bcr-genotype and clonality status of cells with in vivo regenerative potential.
the community hospital-based stroke programs in north carolina, oregon and new york--v. stroke diagnosis: factors influencing the diagnostic evaluation of patients following acute stroke. among the 4129 patients of the community hospital-based stroke program, 30% had an unspecified stroke diagnosis. since specific diagnosis and, perhaps, eventual treatment, derives in part from diagnostic testing, we examined the effect of clinical condition, geographic and demographic factors on the incidence of certain diagnostic tests after acute stroke. in this multivariable analysis, race, sex, history of hypertension and history of diabetes did not influence the chance of having any test, but older age strongly reduced the chances of receiving extensive evaluation. when ct scanning was available, the utilization of a ct as well as other diagnostic studies including cerebral angiography, radionuclide brain scan, eeg and ekg was increased. the odds of receiving a ct scan increased if the patient was married, and decreased with a history of previous stroke. a history of previous tia increased the chance of having a cerebral angiogram while a history of cardiac disease decreased the chance. there were striking regional geographic differences in the use of ct, radionuclide brain scanning and cerebral angiography which may, in part, reflect differences between the availability of these technologies in urban and rural hospitals. these results indicate that evaluation of stroke patients remains heterogenous.
an analysis of abnormalities of the retinoblastoma gene in human ovarian and endometrial carcinoma. the altered expression of the human retinoblastoma (rb) gene has been demonstrated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of rb and other tumors. to determine whether the rb gene might be involved in the pathogenesis of human ovarian and endometrial cancer, dna from 24 human ovarian tumors, 3 normal ovaries, 3 endometrial carcinomas, and 1 endometrial hyperplasia was examined with an rb complementary dna probe. evidence for homozygous deletion of the rb gene was observed in only one specimen. interestingly, the specimen was an endometrioid tumor of the ovary of low malignant potential (lmp). this patient experienced rapid progression of the tumor and died 8 months after diagnosis. abnormalities of the rb gene may be involved in the aggressive biologic behavior of certain forms of ovarian carcinoma, particularly those of lmp.
relationship between lung asbestos fiber type and concentration and relative risk of mesothelioma. a case-control study. lung tissue from 221 definite and probable cases of malignant mesothelioma reported to the australian mesothelioma surveillance program from january 1980 through december 1985 and from an age-sex frequency matched control series of 359 postmortem cases were examined by light microscopic (lm) and analytical transmission electron microscopic (tem) analysis and energy dispersive x-ray analysis (edax). concentrations of total fibers (coated and uncoated) (lm), crocidolite, amosite, chrysotile, and unidentified amphibole (tem) (fibers/g dry lung tissue) were measured. fiber concentrations less than 10 microns in length and greater than or equal to 10 microns in length were separately quantified. by comparing cases (221) and controls (359 lm, 103 tem), odds ratios for increasing fiber concentrations compared with less than 15,000 fibers/g (lm) and less than 200,000 fibers/g (tem) (the respective detection limits) were calculated. univariate analyses showed statistically significant dose-response relationships between odds ratio and fiber concentration for all fiber concentration measures. the relationship between log(odds ratio) and log(fiber concentration) was linear. multiple logistic regression analysis showed that a model containing crocidolite greater than or equal to 10 microns, amosite less than 10 microns, and chrysotile less than 10 microns as explanatory variables best described the data. the odds ratios for a x10 increase in fiber concentration (fibers/micrograms) were as follows: crocidolite greater than or equal to 10 microns, 29.4 (95% confidence interval [ci], 3.6 to 241); chrysotile less than 10 microns, 15.7 (95% ci, 6.1 to 40); amosite less than 10 microns, 2.3 (95% ci, 1.0 to 5.3). an additive risk model gave similar results. in a subgroup of cases and controls with only chrysotile in the lungs, a significant trend in odds ratio with increasing fiber content was found.
low-level lead exposure in the prenatal and early preschool periods: language development. inconsistent results continue to be reported from studies linking low-level lead exposure and child development. this inconsistency is seen for both prenatal exposure and exposure in the preschool years. the primary outcome measures in most reports are indices of cognitive development, including iq. verbal skills may be particularly vulnerable to toxic insult. the fact that 2 y of age is both a time of peak exposure and also a time of rapid language development suggests that this may be a critical period for such an effect. the later prenatal and early infancy period, at which time the nervous system is developing rapidly, may also be critical exposure period. we examined the relationship of maternal and cord blood lead (pbb) at birth and venous pbb at 6 mo, 2 y, and 3 y with language measures at 1, 2, and 3 y of age. the sample consisted of disadvantaged urban children. multivariate analyses revealed no statistically significant relationship of either prenatal pbb or early preschool pbb with language measures after control of cofactors. supplementary partial correlations revealed a marginal relationship of cord pbb and mean length of utterance (mlu), which describes a child's ability to form meaningful word combinations. because this analysis was one of a large number of analyses with both positive and negative regression coefficients, the possibility that this was a chance effect was considered. if there is an effect of low-level lead exposure on language development, that effect is not robust.
the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome in an adult [published erratum appears in thorax 1990 dec;45(12):984] a 27 year old white woman with a history of chronic eczema and episodes of serious infection of the chest, skin, and bone presented with acute respiratory failure. she was found to have a spontaneous right pneumothorax and a pneumatocele in the left upper lobe. despite a left upper lobectomy she was left with chronic respiratory failure, bullous lung disease, and bilateral bronchiectasis. the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome was diagnosed only in adult life.
magnetic resonance imaging--the evaluation of choice in residual shunt after congenital heart disease surgery? accurate anatomic diagnosis presents a dilemma in patients with residual shunt after corrective surgery for congenital heart disease. we describe a patient who, after atrial septal defect repair, developed dyspnea and central cyanosis despite normal pulmonary arterial pressures and right heart chamber size. a role for early mri is suggested.
ascites after rupture of dissecting aortic aneurysm into the right atrium. we report successful repair of an aneurysmal aorta-right atrial fistula causing intractable ascites. the clamped "ascending aorta" was drained for mixed return after perfusion through the femoral vessels and opened during hypothermic arrest. return cannulation through the fistula permitted definitive repair.
large telangiectatic focal nodular hyperplasia presenting with normal radionuclide studies: case report. a 9 cm-lesion of telangiectatic focal nodular hyperplasia was incidentally identified in a 31-yr-old female. despite a typical appearance by x-ray computed tomography and ultrasonography, scintigraphy with technetium-99m-(99mtc) colloid, 99mtc-diethyliminodiacetic acid, and 99mtc-labeled red cells failed to demonstrate any abnormalities. these findings are felt to reflect the relative lack of architectural disruption that histologically characterizes this particular lesion. the present report described the imaging characteristics of the telangiectatic form of focal nodular hyperplasia.
cat-scratch disease. acute encephalopathy and other neurologic manifestations. seventy-six patients with neurologic complications of cat-scratch disease are discussed. encephalopathy occurred in 61, while 15 had either cranial or peripheral nerve involvement. the average age of the patients with encephalopathy was 10.6 years (range, 1 to 66 years), and almost twice as many males as females were affected in contrast to patients with uncomplicated cat-scratch disease, in which the ratio was almost equal. fever was not documented in 50% of patients with encephalopathy and only 26% had temperatures higher than 39 degrees c. convulsions occurred in 46% and combative behavior in 40%. lethargy with or without coma was accompanied by variable neurologic signs. results of laboratory studies, including imaging of the central nervous system, were inconsistent and nondiagnostic. biopsy tissue from 14 patients showed histopathologic findings compatible with cat-scratch disease. the "english-wear bacillus" was demonstrated by the warthin-starry stain in 10 of 14 skin or lymph node specimens. of the 15 patients without encephalopathy, two children with facial nerve paresis displayed cranial nerve symptoms and/or signs, 10 patients had cat-scratch disease neuroretinitis, and three women had peripheral neuritis. all 76 patients recovered within 12 months; 78% recovered within 1 to 12 weeks. there were no neurologic sequelae. treatment consisted of control of convulsions and supportive measures. commonly used antibiotics administered to more than half of the patients were apparently ineffective.
empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host. review of the literature and guidelines for use. persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia. clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi. until recently, data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports. evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series: febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4- to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy. patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs. amphotericin b has been the "gold standard" for empiric antifungal therapy, although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations.
transcatheter oily chemoembolization in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis: results of a western comparative study in 60 patients. transcatheter oily chemoembolization is widely used as palliative therapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma in high-incidence asiatic areas. to assess its usefulness in the western form of this cancer, 30 french patients were treated between 1987 and 1990 by intraarterial hepatic injection of a lipiodol-doxorubicin emulsion followed by embolization with 0.5 to 1 mm gelatin sponge particles. the number of procedures ranged from one to five. all patients had advanced, symptomatic and inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma (okuda's staging: i, n = 8; ii, n = 14; iii, n = 8); none was found under systematic screening. all had underlying cirrhosis (child-pugh's class: a, n = 15; b, n = 12; c, n = 3) that was alcoholic in origin in 27 cases and posthepatitic b in origin in 3 cases. the results of the treatment were assessed by comparison with a group of 30 untreated patients admitted to the same unit between 1984 and 1987. patients of both groups were closely matched for clinical presentation, global disease staging and precise anatomical extension. the overall 1- and 2-yr survival rate was 59% and 30%, respectively, for the treated patients vs. 0% at 1 yr for the untreated patients. the latter all died from local disease with end-stage liver failure and/or uncontrollable variceal bleeding. in the former, the three patients with child's class c cirrhosis died after the first procedure. during the follow-up (range = 3 to 26 mo), 11 additional patients died, 8 from metastatic generalization.
incidence, causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong. to determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong, all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin, and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated. plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients. repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183. the main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy (72.1 per cent), tuberculosis (6.0 per cent), and primary hyperparathyroidism (5.5 per cent). in the malignant hypercalcaemia group, carcinoma of lung was the most common (31.8 per cent) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon (3.0 per cent). secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours. in order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated. increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver (none of whom had bony metastases) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus. we conclude that in hong kong (a) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon, (b) tuberculosis is an important cause and (c) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia.
increased microvascular permeability in vivo in response to intradermal injection of neutrophil-activating protein (nap-2) in rabbit skin. neutrophil-activating protein-2 (nap-2), an nh2-terminally processed form of the platelet-release product beta thromboglobulin (beta tg), was purified to homogeneity from stimulated human blood leukocytes. in the presence of a vasodilator substance (pge2, cgrp) picomolar (pmol/l) amounts of nap-2 induced neutrophil accumulation and plasma leakage on intradermal injection in rabbit skin, whereas the longer forms, beta tg itself and connective tissue-activating peptide iii (ctap-iii), had no such effect. nap-2-induced increased in microvascular permeability was neutrophil dependent and fast in onset, with a half-life of 65 to 75 minutes, comparable to that previously reported for the structural-related neutrophil-activating protein-1/interleukin-8 (nap-1/il-8). however nap-2 showed a lower potency in that more protein was needed to provoke skin reactivity. nevertheless the finding that a platelet release product can elicit neutrophil-mediated inflammation further narrows the gap between thrombotic events and inflammatory disorders.
thromboxane mediates diapedesis after ischemia by activation of neutrophil adhesion receptors interacting with basally expressed intercellular adhesion molecule-1. ischemic injury is characterized by neutrophil (pmn)--endothelial cell adhesion and diapedesis associated with thromboxane (tx) generation. neutrophil-endothelial cell interaction is regulated in part by the leukocyte adhesion receptor cd 18 glycoprotein complex and the endothelial intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1). this study tests the role of tx in ischemia-induced diapedesis and evaluates whether the diapedesis is regulated by neutrophil or endothelial adhesion receptors. plasma derived from rabbit hind limbs made ischemic for 3 hours (n = 6) and reperfused for 10 minutes had increased levels of txb2 3,450 pg/ml, which was higher than sham rabbit (n = 6) values of 653 pg/ml (p less than 0.05). when introduced into abraded skin chambers placed on the dorsum of other normal rabbits (n = 6), this ischemic plasma induced 1,000 pg/ml of new tx synthesis and diapedesis of 1,235 pmn/mm3. the total tx concentration and pmn accumulations in blister fluid were correlated (r = 0.88, p less than 0.05). in contrast, sham rabbit plasma induced no tx synthesis and diapedesis of only 77 pmn/mm3 (p less than 0.05). administration of 50 ng/ml of authentic txb2 into blisters induced an accumulation of 453 pmn/mm3, which was higher than that in saline controls (18 pmn/mm3) (p less than 0.05). pretreatment of normal rabbits used for the diapedesis assay (n = 4) with the tx synthetase inhibitor oky 046 (2 mg/kg/hr) limited ischemic plasma and authentic txb2 induced diapedesis to 142 and 76 pmn/mm3, respectively (both p less than 0.05).
clinical and electrophysiologic characteristics of patients with antidromic circus movement tachycardia in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. antidromic circus movement tachycardia was documented in 36 of 345 consecutive patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome undergoing detailed electrophysiologic evaluation. twenty-six patients were men and 10 were women (mean age +/- standard deviation 26 +/- 12 years [range 12 to 45]). multiple accessory pathways were identified in 12 of these 36 patients (33%). ten of the patients (67%) with clinically documented antidromic tachycardia had multiple accessory pathways. dizziness and syncope occurred in 61 and 50% of patients with antidromic circus movement tachycardia. six patients had clinical documentation of atrial fibrillation, and 4 patients (11%) were resuscitated from ventricular fibrillation. in the 36 patients, 56 distinct antidromic tachycardias were recorded and several different pathways were observed. orthodromic tachycardia was the most frequently associated arrhythmia (72%). dual atrioventricular nodal pathways were present in 12 patients (33%); however, atrioventricular nodal tachycardia could be initiated in only 2 of them. interruption of the accessory pathway was successfully performed in all 20 patients undergoing surgery.
neurological sequelae of cerebral malaria in children. out of 604 gambian children admitted with falciparum malaria to one hospital between september and december, 1988, 308 had cerebral malaria and 203 were severely anaemic (haemoglobin less than 60 g/l). 14% of those with cerebral malaria died, as did 7.8% of those with severe anaemia. 32 (12%) of children surviving cerebral malaria had residual neurological deficit. 69 other children were admitted with clinical features strongly suggestive of cerebral malaria but with negative blood films; 16 of these died and 3 had residual neurological deficits. the commonest sequelae of cerebral malaria were hemiplegia (23 cases), cortical blindness (11), aphasia (9), and ataxia (6). factors predisposing to sequelae included prolonged coma, protracted convulsions, severe anaemia, and a biphasic clinical course characterised by recovery of consciousness followed by recurrent convulsions and coma. at follow up 1-6 months later over half these children had made a full recovery, but a quarter were left with a major residual neurological deficit. cerebral malaria in childhood may be an important cause of neurological handicap in the tropics.
melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa. lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa. they are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions. this article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex, junctional lentigo ("jentigo"), atypical melanocytic hyperplasia (melanoma in situ), and melanocanthoma. the proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed.
safety, stability, and effectiveness of immunoadsorption under membrane plasmapheresis treatment for myasthenia gravis. nine patients (five women and four men, average age 50.4 years) with refractory myasthenia gravis (mg) underwent thymectomy and were then treated with immunoadsorption under membrane plasmaphersis (iap). thymic histology showed hyperplasia in nine patients. an immunoadsorption column (asahi, med, co) was made with tryptophan. a plasouto 1,000 (asahi, med, co) was used as the machine. the plasma separator was a first filter (asahi, med, co), and immunoadsorption columns were used for plasma perfusion. iap treatment was performed three times weekly for a total of six times, after which iap was done every 3 weeks. the removal rate of anti-ach-r titer was 54 +/- 12%; igg, iga, and igm levels improved in nine of nine patients after iap treatment, and improvement of gait disturbances were seen in two of two. muscle strength improved in all nine patients, whereas speech disturbances improved in two of three. eye ptosis improved in nine of nine patients. subjective improvement was reported by nine of nine patients, and none had severe side effects with iap. in conclusion, iap is a safe, stable, effective, and clinically useful treatment. for mg.
perianal appearances associated with constipation. the perianal appearances were studied prospectively of 136 constipated children (mean age 3.9 years, 67 boys, 69 girls). anal dilatation, fissures, tags, warts, perianal oedema, redness, blueness, and veins were recorded. it was noted whether dilatation occurred immediately or at 30 and 60 seconds with the buttocks minimally separated, and on subsequent firm lateral traction of the buttocks. the degree of faecal loading was assessed in all children. anal dilatation was found in 24 (18%) and first appeared on lateral traction in eight (6%). in three quarters of the children with dilatation faecal loading or perianal signs were present. fissures were found in 35 (26%) children and tags in seven (5%). perianal redness was more likely to be associated with fissures, and blueness with dilatation. we conclude that there are no pathognomonic perianal signs in childhood constipation and that the technique of anal examination should be standardised.
a preliminary study of dye-enhanced laser photosclerosis. laser ablation of veins after injection of wavelength-specific dyes to enhance and localize energy absorption could provide a useful adjunct to current treatment options. to enhance the absorption of diode laser energy at 808 nm, ear veins of 41 rabbits were infused with 2 to 3 ml of indocyanine green dye (maximum absorption, 805 nm) and exposed for 2 to 20 seconds. animals were killed between 0 and 28 days after operation. discrete time intervals of laser exposure exist during which various-sized vessels can be ablated without significant thermal injury to the overlying tissue. small vessels (0.2 mm in diameter) blanch after 2 to 3 seconds of exposure, whereas medium-sized vessels (2 mm in diameter) require 8 to 10 seconds. vessels can be ablated with a power density as low as 11.1 w/cm2. specimens taken immediately after laser exposure show vessel wall thinning and a reirradiation effect, created as laser energy initially absorbed by dye is reemitted. by the seventh day after operation, a brisk inflammatory response and acanthosis of the overlying epidermal layer develop. the lumen is partially filled by thrombus with cellular invasion. by postoperative day 28, the epidermal thickening and inflammatory reaction have resolved; the vessel walls are fibrotic. the use of low-power, air-cooled diode lasers, in conjunction with wavelength-specific dyes, may provide a simple, viable, and cosmetically appealing alternative to the treatment of superficial varicosities of the extremities.
gaucher's disease complicated by bleeding esophageal varices and colonic infiltration by gaucher cells. we report a 10-yr-old child with gaucher's disease who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices, as well as hemorrhage from a colonic polyp infiltrated with gaucher cells. both the varices and polyp were treated endoscopically, and the outcome was successful. although gastrointestinal hemorrhage due to portal hypertension is considered a rare complication of gaucher's disease, colonic infiltration with gaucher cells has not been recognized previously.
comparison of neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in long-term survivors of childhood leukemia given cranial radiation or parenteral methotrexate: a prospective study. we prospectively compared neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in 49 consecutive childhood leukemia patients in long-term continuous complete remission (cr) who had received two different regimens of cns prophylaxis by random assignment. twenty-three patients were treated with 1,800 cgy cranial radiation and intrathecal methotrexate (rt group) and 26 with parenteral methotrexate only (mtx group). over half of the rt group had somnolence syndrome, and four developed cerebral calcifications late in their clinical course. abnormal electroencephalograms (eegs) were seen in 15 patients in the mtx group, and six had early, transient white-matter hypodensities apparent on computed tomographic (ct) scans. mean scores on standard tests of intelligence and academic achievement, administered after remission induction and again at a median of 6 years after treatment cessation, did not differ significantly between the two groups. however, statistically significant decreases in overall and verbal intelligence quotients (iqs) and in arithmetic achievement were found within both treatment groups. sixteen of 26 in the mtx group and 14 of the 23 in the rt group had clinically important decreases (greater than or equal to 15 points) on one or more neuropsychologic measures. these changes did not correlate with findings on ct scans, eegs, or other clinical signs of neurotoxicity. we conclude that 1,800 cgy cranial radiation and parenteral methotrexate, as used in this study, are associated with comparable decreases in neuropsychologic function.
late potentials in progressive muscular dystrophy of the duchenne type. this study describes the late potentials (lps) obtained by signal-averaged electrocardiography (saecg) in 66 patients with duchenne's progressive muscular dystrophy (dmd). it also assesses the possible relationships between lps and the severity of dmd, and the findings of two-dimensional echocardiography, as well as ventricular arrhythmias examined with the holter system. saecgs were performed with a marquette mac-1 unit. based on swinyard-deaver's system of stages, ranging from the mildest, s1, to the most severe, s8, one patient each could be assigned to s2 and s4, 6 to s5, 20 to s6, 21 to s7, and 17 to s8. lps were observed in 21 of the 66 patients (32%), including 3 of the 20 assigned to s6 (15%), 10 of the 21 in s7 (48%), and 8 of the 17 in s8 (47%). the total wall motion index evaluated by the method of hegar was significantly greater in the patients with lps (8.4 +/- 4.4) than in those without lps (5.8 +/- 3.1) (p less than 0.05). the incidence of lps was found to be higher in the dilated cardiomyopathy (dcm) type (8 of 12;67%) than in the normal type (9 of 41;22%) (p less than 0.01). the incidence of ventricular premature complexes (vpcs) was significantly higher in patients with lps (13 of 21;62%) than in those without lps (13 of 45;29%) (p less than 0.05). no sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt) was observed, although nonsustained vt was noted in three patients with lps. the lps in patients with dmd were thus associated with left ventricular dysfunction, and the presence of lps might be correlated with the extent of myocardial derangement in dmd.
epidemiology of pelvic inflammatory disease in parous women with special reference to intrauterine device use. up to the end of 1989, 206 parous women in the oxford family planning association contraceptive study had been referred to hospital with a first episode of pelvic inflammatory disease. of these, 65 suffered from definite disease described as acute, 81 from definite disease not described as acute and 60 from 'other disease'. considering all forms of disease together, referral was less common in those aged 25-29 and in those aged 45 or more than in those aged 30-44. referral was more common in those of low social class, in those who smoked and in those who married young. all these factors were taken into account in analyses considering the effects of contraceptive methods. in these analyses, women currently using the contraceptive pill, the diaphragm, the sheath, female sterilization or an intrauterine device (iucd) were compared with those currently using other methods or no method of contraception. iucd ex-users were, however, placed in a separate category, irrespective of their current method of contraception. the relative risks obtained in these analyses, with 95% ci, were as follows: contraceptive pill 0.5 (0.2-0.9), diaphragm 0.6 (0.3-1.2), sheath 1.2 (0.6-2.4), female sterilization 0.7 (0.3-1.5), non-medicated iucd 3.3 (2.3-5.0), medicated iucd 1.8 (0.8-4.0), iucd ex-users 1.3 (0.7-2.3). these data suggest that oral contraceptives, the diaphragm and female sterilization protect against pelvic inflammatory disease and that iucds increase the risk. medicated devices, however, appear to carry only about half the risk of non-medicated devices, and the elevation of risks in iucd ex-users appears to be small. special analyses examined the risk associated with use of a dalkon shield. among women currently using an iucd (of any kind), those who had used a dalkon shield (at any time) had nearly five times as great a risk of hospital referral for pelvic inflammatory disease as those who had never used a dalkon shield (relative risk 4.7, 95% ci 2.1-9.0).
intrathoracic nissen fundoplication: long-term clinical and ph-monitoring evaluation. from 1976 until april 1989, 31 intrathoracic total fundoplications were performed for reflux esophagitis and irreducible hiatus hernia. in the first 16 patients (group 1) the operation was complicated with acute perforation of the wrap in 4 cases, bronchogastric fistula in 1, and herniation of the wrap higher in the chest in 1. technical modifications were applied to 15 more recent patients (group 2). these are enlargement of the hiatus, looseness of the wrap and its appropriate anchorage, avoidance of forceps when handling the stomach, care with the vagi, and efficient gastric decompression in the postoperative period. the postoperative course was always uneventful in group 2. twenty-six patients, who still have their initial wrap, were considered for clinical evaluation: 11 from group 1 (mean follow-up, 81.5 months) and 15 from group 2 (mean follow-up, 32.8 months). all are free from any symptom of reflux; gas-bloat syndrome is infrequent and dysphagia is relieved. twenty-four-hour ph monitoring, performed in 14 patients (3 from group 1 and 11 from group 2) (mean follow-up, 42 months), was normal in 13; a pathological upright reflux (time ph less than 4, 8.4%) was demonstrated in one symptom-free woman in whom endoscopy was unremarkable. mechanisms of complications experienced in group 1 are analyzed in the light of the technical evolution of the procedure, and the place of the intrathoracic total fundoplication in the management of short esophagus is defined, considering the other available surgical techniques.
bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas. a 67-yr-old man, known to have chronic obstructive lung disease, developed bilateral localized pulmonary densities on chest radiographs after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. an autopsy disclosed bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas without communication with bronchi, pulmonary arteries, or pleural cavities. we suggest blunt pulmonary injury is the most probable cause of the hematomas and discuss its pathogenic mechanism. intrapulmonary hematomas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary densities developing after a vigorous resuscitation.
admissions to the intensive care unit after complications of anaesthetic techniques over 10 years. 2. the second 5 years compared with the first 5 years there was a 19% increase in general anaesthetics, a 171% increase in local and (or) sedation techniques and a 9% increase in obstetric epidurals with no increase in anaesthetic staffing. in this second 5-year period, 46 patients were admitted to the intensive care unit as a result of a complication of an anaesthetic technique. these patients represented 1 in 2371 anaesthetic techniques carried out in the district compared with the previous 5 years where the incidence was 1 in 1543. seven patients died (15.2%). the complication was considered to be wholly or partially avoidable in 14 instances (30.4%). four of these subjects died.
carcinoma of the male breast: a review of 41 cases. we reviewed the cases of 41 consecutive men treated for breast carcinoma from 1950 through 1987 at vanderbilt university affiliated hospitals to examine controversies in and methods of therapy for this disease. twenty-two patients (52%) had stage i or ii lesions potentially curable by operative therapy. the overall 5-year survival rates were 100% for stage i, 65% for stage ii, 56% for stage iii, and 0% for stage iv. radical mastectomy offered no advantage over modified radical mastectomy in terms of survival or rate of recurrence. diagnosis at an early clinical stage and no finding of disease in axillary lymph nodes were important factors in survival in this series of patients. all tumors evaluated for hormone receptors were positive. although experience was limited, encouraging results were obtained with the use of tamoxifen citrate in adjuvant as well as palliative roles. with the exception of a predominance of centrally located lesions and a uniquely high frequency of positive hormone receptor status, carcinoma of the male breast appears biologically similar to the disease in women, and treatment should be guided by similar principles.
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency. five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy. there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one, mesangial-proliferative changes in two, and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two. four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance. the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised. affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis.
power drills to fenestrate exposed bone to stimulate wound healing. power drills can be used to stimulate the formation of granulation tissue over exposed cortical bone. these tools allow for the rapid fenestration and selective abrasion of large areas of exposed bone; fenestration and abrasion create the multiple bleeding points essential for the production of granulation tissue. the granulation tissue thus produced is allowed to grow out through the holes to cover bone. this procedure can be performed in an outpatient setting, usually without the need for either local or general anesthesia; it is particularly useful for patients considered to be poor risks for general anesthesia. healing by granulation tissue is a somewhat slow process, but it has a high success rate, causes few complications, and produces very good cosmetic results. two cases illustrate the method of fenestration of exposed cranial bone to stimulate granulation tissue. specific instructions describe the needed care of exposed bone.
carbamazepine-induced antinuclear antibodies and systemic lupus erythematosus-like syndrome. a 20-year-old woman developed a systemic lupus erythematosus (sle)-like syndrome and a positive antinuclear antibody (ana) soon after initiation of carbamazepine (cbz) therapy. symptoms and serology became normal after cbz was discontinued. cbz-induced sle is an important but underecognized phenomenon.
outpatient sedation: an essential addition to gynecologic care for persons with mental retardation. routine gynecologic care for persons with mental retardation may be difficult to provide, especially to those women who do not allow a pelvic examination to be performed. of 275 women referred to a multidisciplinary clinic addressing the reproductive health concerns of mentally retarded women, 61 patients (22%) did not allow a gynecologic examination to be performed. the administration of ketamine alone, midazolam alone, or a combination of midazolam and ketamine allowed for the successful performance of a gynecologic examination in 81% of previously uncooperative women. no adverse effects of the medications were noted. we conclude that sedation of difficult-to-examine, mentally handicapped women can be safely performed in the outpatient setting, thus avoiding the need for general anesthesia and its inherent risks.
clinical spectrum of symptomatic external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia. external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia is a rare and usually asymptomatic disorder. we report eight symptomatic patients seen over a 15-year period and review pathophysiologic mechanisms accounting for the three following distinct lower extremity ischemic sequelae: (1) emboli--episodic focal digital ischemia (blue toe) was seen in three patients. resection and primary anastomosis of focal iliac ulcerative fibromuscular dysplasia (one patient) or resection and replacement (two patients) removed the embolic source and relieved the symptoms. (2) chronic ischemia--gradual onset of full leg claudication in four patients was treated by operative graduated intraluminal dilation in three patients and prosthetic bypass in one. arteriography subsequently showed a remodeled lumen in the three patients who underwent dilation. (3) dissection--acute onset leg ischemia resulted from presumed dissection of the external iliac segment. after 4 months of conservative management of antiplatelet agents and exercise, symptoms resolved completely, and arteriogram showed spontaneous restoration of a normal lumen in the dissected segment. the clinical presentation of fibromuscular dysplasia may mimic other arterial processes such as atherosclerosis. diagnosis is made only by arteriography with specific magnification views of the external iliac arteries and careful surveillance of the renal arteries. appropriate treatment should be tailored to the clinical presenting symptom. for microembolic disease, resection and replacement are required. for chronic ischemia, intraluminal dilation is generally sufficient and durable and has proved to be a simpler and acceptable alternative to replacement or bypass. in acute dissection, surgical intervention may be deferred if the limb is viable to allow spontaneous healing and remodeling. persistent symptoms may be the only indication for intervention in this ischemic manifestation of external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia.
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies. by means of a mail questionnaire, information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals. seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms; in 22 patients, the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy, and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment. when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population, no increase in the incidence of complications was observed: 64% of the pregnancies went to term, 9% resulted in spontaneous abortion, and 5% resulted in premature births. the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals. there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy. in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed, the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies, if deemed necessary, should not be postponed because of pregnancy. moreover, the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided, especially to those fields involving the pelvic area.
hilger facial nerve stimulator: a 25-year update. percutaneous nerve excitability testing using the hilger facial nerve stimulator was introduced about 25 years ago. the test is reliable, easy to use, and inexpensive; it continues to be the most frequently used method for predicting prognosis of facial nerve disorders. between 1966 and 1974, we recorded 10,243 nerve excitability tests on 865 patients with a mean of 3.29 tests for each peripheral branch and 3.43 for the trunk. using a multiple regression model, we determined the effect on nerve stimulation values of age, sex, race, diabetes, hypertension, partial or complete clinical paralysis, diagnosis of herpes zoster, year of testing, and eventual facial paralysis recovery profile. we discuss statistical reliability, provide a table of interpretive results, and offer "tips and traps" invaluable to the practitioner. a prospective study of 25 patients with residual facial paralysis was evaluated by two separate otolaryngologists to determine intertester reliability.
endoscopic treatment of biliary tract strictures in sclerosing cholangitis: a larger series and recommendations for treatment. we report a group of 35 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis who had long-term follow-up after endoscopic treatment of major ductal strictures in the primary or secondary biliary ducts. our patients were all symptomatic with ascending cholangitis or jaundice. there was significant improvement as measured by clinical parameters of hospitalization rates and laboratory data and comparable radiography. long-term follow-up averaged 24 (+/- 2.8 months). we believe endoscopic treatment of sclerosing cholangitis should be attempted in selected symptomatic cases with major ductal strictures before liver transplantation.
inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene in human lymphoid neoplasms. the absence of wild type retinoblastoma (rb) gene expression in a wide variety of human solid tumors suggests an etiologic role for this tumor suppressor gene in human cancer. we have evaluated the involvement of rb gene inactivation in the pathogenesis and progression of human lymphoma and leukemia. we examined the genomic configuration and transcription of the rb gene in cultured cell lines and primary cases of t- and b-cell lymphomas and leukemias. by southern analysis, abnormalities of the rb locus were identified in 1 of 5 t-cell acute lymphoblastic lymphoma (t-all) cell lines, 1 of 26 primary cases of t-all, 1 of 40 primary cases of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma/well-differentiated lymphoma (cll/wdl), and 1 of 15 primary cases of intermediately differentiated lymphoma (idl). by northern analysis, markedly reduced or abnormal expression of the rb gene was identified in 2 of 5 t-all cell lines, 1 of 7 primary cases of t-all, 1 of 5 primary cases of cll/wdl, and 1 of 6 primary cases of idl. these findings show that rb gene inactivation can be associated with a broad range of lymphoid neoplasms and that loss of the tumor suppressor function of rb may influence the pathogenesis and progression of lymphoma/leukemia.
metastatic small cell tumor of bone with 'true' rosettes and glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity. a 15-year-old black girl was admitted to st. jude children's research hospital with a lytic lesion involving the right fourth metacarpal bone with a solitary metastasis to the ipsilateral axillary lymph node. histologic examination of both the primary lesion and metastasis revealed a primitive small round cell lesion. abundant rosettes with central lumina were present in the metastasis. immunohistochemical stains performed on sections of the metastasis were strongly positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) and negative for neuron-specific enolase (nse), s-100 protein, and leu-7. electron microscopic examination of the metastasis revealed lumen formation with apical microvilli and juxtaluminal junctional complexes. this tumor exhibits features that are suggestive, but not definitive, of primitive ependymal differentiation and further expands the morphologic and immunophenotypic range of small round cell tumors of bone.
a simple and sensitive microtiter plate estrogen bioassay based on stimulation of alkaline phosphatase in ishikawa cells: estrogenic action of delta 5 adrenal steroids. we have developed an estrogen bioassay using the ishikawa human endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line growing in 96-well microtiter plates. alkaline phosphatase enzyme activity (alkp) in these cells is markedly stimulated by estrogens, and this enzyme can be easily quantified in situ using a chromogenic substrate. these cells are very sensitive to estrogens; estradiol induces alkp at levels as low as 10(-12) m. antiestrogens completely block the action of estradiol. various estrogens stimulate alkp with potencies comparable to those achieved in vivo. the induction of alkp is specific for estrogens; no other type of steroid, including androgens, progestins, mineralocorticoids, or glucocorticoids produce this effect. the stimulation of alkp in ishikawa cells is specific for estrogens, is highly reproducible and sensitive, and permits large numbers of samples to be assayed with ease. we have used this assay to investigate the estrogenic action of the adrenal delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroids. while pregnenolone is inactive, dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulfate ester induce alkp slightly. however, the c19 steroid, 5-androstene-3 beta, 17 beta-diol is considerably more estrogenic in this assay, although it stimulates ishikawa alkp with a potency of 1/30,000 that of estradiol. the stimulation by 5-androstene-3 beta,17 beta-diol is inhibited by antiestrogens, but it is not blocked by the delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid isomerase/dehydrogenase inhibitor, cyanoketone, or by the aromatase inhibitor, 4-hydroxy-androstenedione. thus, neither conversion to a delta 4-3-ketone nor aromatization is required for the action of this unusual estrogen.
systolic wall stress and ventricular arrhythmia: the role of acute change in blood pressure in the isolated working rat heart. 1. the effect of a sudden acute change in blood pressure upon arrhythmia provocation has been studied in an isolated working heart model from the wistar-kyoto strain of rat. twenty-four hearts were studied. 2. they were perfused with two different, modified, krebs-henseleit solutions at a fixed left atrial pressure. 3. acute changes in pressure, both increases and decreases, were arrhythmogenic. whilst ectopic activity was more predictably produced by pressure reductions, this consisted of simple ventricular ectopics only. pressure increases, in contrast, were capable of provoking more complex and sustained arrhythmias. 4. the effect of pressure changes were highly dependent upon electrolyte concentrations in the perfusate. low potassium and magnesium concentrations increased the amount of arrhythmia provoked by pressure increases but tended to reduce that provoked by pressure reductions. 5. we conclude that the direct effect of an acute change in pressure upon the myocardium is arrhythmogenic. however, the myocardial response to a pressure change is interdependent upon prevailing electrolyte concentrations.
a comparative trial of three agents in the treatment of acute migraine headache. study objectives: a study was conducted to evaluate the relative efficacy of three non-narcotic agents, chloropromazine, lidocaine, and dihydroergotamine, in the treatment of migraine headache in an emergency department setting. design: the trial was randomized and single blinded. setting: the study was conducted in two university-affiliated eds. type of participants: all patients had an isolated diagnosis of common or classic migraine. interventions: patients were pretreated with 500 ml (iv) normal saline before randomization. study drugs as administered were dihydroergotamine 1 mg iv repeated after 30 minutes if the initial response was inadequate; lidocaine 50 mg iv at 20-minute intervals to a maximum total dose of 150 mg as required; or chloropromazine 12.5 mg iv repeated at 20-minute intervals to a total maximum dose of 37.5 mg as required. patients were asked to grade headache severity on a ten-point scale before and one hour after the initiation of therapy. follow-up by phone was sought the following day. measurements and main results: of 76 patients completing the trial, 24 were randomized to receive chloropromazine, 26 to receive dihydroergotamine, and 26 to receive lidocaine. reduction in mean headache intensity was significantly better among those treated with chloropromazine (p less than .005). persistent headache relief was experienced by 16 of the chloropromazine-treated patients (88.9%) contacted at 12 to 24 hours follow-up compared with ten of the dihydroergotamine-treated patients (52.6%) and five of the lidocaine-treated group (29.4%). conclusion: the relative effectiveness of these three antimigraine therapies appears to favor chloropromazine in measures of headache relief, incidence of headache rebound, and patient satisfaction with therapy.
influence of catheter technology and adjuvant medication on acute complications in percutaneous coronary angioplasty. we report on the complication rates in 660 consecutive coronary angioplasties (725 lesions) performed using four procedures that differed with respect to catheter technology and adjuvant medication. after the ptca regimen in our laboratory had been changed from conventional steerable systems to the monorail technique, we observed a significant increase in the incidence of transient vessel occlusions from 2.6% to 7.7%, of permanent occlusions from 3.6% to 8.8%, and of intracoronary thrombus-formation from 2.6% to 5.5%. this was associated with the frequent observation of thrombotic material on the partially teflon-coated guidewires. coronary perfusion with urokinase (1,670-6,670 u/min) lead to a further increase in the complication rates (10.4%/10.3%/6.5%). our present percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca)-regimen (monorail technique with p.e.t. balloons, fully silicon-coated guidewires, no urokinase) shows an incidence of 3.8% for intermittent and recurrent coronary occlusions and 1.9% for permanent occlusions. urokinase did not prevent intracoronary thrombus formation with the monorail technique. furthermore, we suspect that in the case of ptca-induced regional intimal dissection, fibrinolysis can prevent reestablishment of intima adherence to the vessel wall. because five procedural deaths were observed in the 212 patients treated with i.c. urokinase as opposed to three deaths in the 448 procedures without urokinase, we feel that i.c. urokinase in ptca is a potentially harmful regimen. we suggest that the monorail technique should be performed with fully silicon-coated guidewires and without urokinase.
natural history and prognostic factors for chronic hepatitis type b. one hundred and five hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) positive patients presenting with chronic persistent hepatitis (n = 46) or chronic active hepatitis without cirrhosis (n = 59) were followed longitudinally for one to 16 years (mean 5.5 years) and underwent follow up biopsy. during a mean histological follow up of 3.7 years, active cirrhosis developed in 21 (20%) patients one to 13 years after entry to the study with a calculated annual incidence of 5.9%. the probability of evolution to cirrhosis was significantly higher in patients with chronic active hepatitis and bridging hepatic necrosis than in those with moderate chronic active hepatitis or chronic persistent hepatitis (p less than 0.0001). cox multiple regression analysis showed that the following three variables independently implied poor prognosis: older age, presence of bridging hepatic necrosis, and persistence of hepatitis b virus dna in serum (p less than 0.0001). these findings indicate that patients with severe chronic active hepatitis and persistent hepatitis b virus replication are at very high risk of rapid progression to cirrhosis.
the management of atypical non-cardiac chest pain. atypical, non-cardiac chest pain is common and disabling, and often persists despite negative medical investigations. aetiology is disputed and management is difficult. a multi-causal model in which both psychological and physical factors play a part is helpful; a fundamental factor is continued misinterpretation of minor physical symptoms as evidence of heart disease. we report supportive evidence and describe a psychological treatment derived from the model. in a randomized trial, cognitive behavioural methods were effective in reducing chest pain, disability and use of medication, in patients both with and without psychiatric disorder. the clinical implications are discussed.
undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands. undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands are those epithelial malignancies whose light-optic histopathologic features are not sufficient to place them in other defined classes of carcinoma. they are ultrastructurally heterogeneous and can manifest neuroendocrine differentiation. with or without the latter, the carcinomas are biologically high-grade and rank with salivary duct and high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas in terms of morbidity and mortality.
incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia detected by different electrocardiographic systems to determine the extent to which different electrocardiographic systems account for differences in reported incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia, the authors simultaneously recorded in 109 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) the v5 or modified cm5 lead on five ecg systems by means of a specially constructed common v5 lead. the systems included a spacelabs alpha 14 model series 3200 ecg cardule at bandwidths of 0.05-125 hz and 0.5-30 hz (a typical operating room monitor), a marquette electronics mac ii ecg at 0.05-40 hz and 0.05-100 hz (a standard ecg), and a del mar holter recorder at 0.1-100 hz. relative st-segment position and incidence of new ischemia compared to the preoperative ecg were determined in 109 sets of preinduction traces and 877 sets of intraoperative traces. st-segment position on the three recording systems conforming with the american heart association (aha) low-frequency response recommendations (0.05 hz) were similar. compared to the standard ecg, st-segment position on the spacelabs at 0.5-30 hz was consistently more negative. displacement on the holter was consistently less negative and less positive. by the 0.1-mv displacement criterion for diagnosis of myocardial ischemia on any one ecg system, 16.5% of patients on arrival and 32.1% of patients intraoperatively suffered new myocardial ischemia. based on the operating room monitor, arrival and intraoperative ischemia were present in 15.6 and 27.5% of patients, respectively. ischemia at the same periods was less frequent by the standard ecg system (5.5 and 12.8%, respectively) and least frequent by the holter recorder (4.6 and 8.3%, respectively).
receptor changes in the spinal cord of sheep associated with exposure to chronic pain. there is evidence that post-injury hypersensitivity is partly due to changes in the central nervous system. sheep with foot rot were used to investigate the effect of chronic pain on some receptors thought to be involved in spinal nociceptive processing systems (alpha 2 adrenoceptor and mu and delta opioid receptors). saturation binding studies showed a variable distribution of [3h] clonidine (alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist) in the spinal cord of normal sheep. the number of receptors (bmax) present in areas thought to be involved in nociceptive processing, laminae i and ii and lamina x, increased to 131% and 169% of control sheep values respectively in animals exposed to chronic pain. the affinity of the receptors (kd), however, remained unchanged at approximately 2 nm. there was less [3h]dago (mu opioid agonist) and [3h]dpdpe (delta opioid agonist) binding in the sheep spinal cord. both opioid receptor types being mainly located in the superficial dorsal horn. the [3h]dpdpe binding was unchanged in the sheep with foot rot, whilst the number (bmax), but not the affinity, of the [3h]dago binding sites increased in laminae i and ii in lame animals to 130% of the control sheep values. hence, in animals in chronic pain, the number of alpha 2 adrenoceptors and mu opioid receptors increased mainly in areas of the sheep spinal cord associated with nociception.
antenatal phenobarbital for the prevention of periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhage: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multihospital trial. to determine whether the neuroprotective properties of phenobarbital would alter the incidence and severity of intracranial hemorrhage in premature infants, we randomly assigned 110 women at less than 31 weeks of gestation to receive 10 mg/kg phenobarbital or placebo in a blinded fashion before delivery. infants were examined postnatally with real-time ultrasonography for evidence of intracranial hemorrhage. maternal demographics, pregnancy complications, antenatal management, and route of delivery did not differ between the phenobarbital group (n = 50) and the placebo group (n = 60). the total incidence of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage did not differ between the phenobarbital-treated (n = 54) and the placebo-treated (n = 67) infants. however, the frequency of grade 3 and grade 4 hemorrhages was 15% (10 infants) in the placebo group and 3.7% (2 infants) in the phenobarbital group (p less than 0.05). there were no differences in the severity of associated conditions in the babies to explain the difference in the incidence of severe hemorrhage between the study groups. we conclude that antenatal administration of phenobarbital appears to be effective in decreasing the severity of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage in infants delivered at less than 31 weeks of gestation.
frequency of low-grade residual coronary stenosis after thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction. the clinical, angiographic and demographic characteristics of 42 patients with low-grade (less than 50%) residual stenosis at the infarct lesion after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction (mi) were assessed. the study group (group i) represented 21% of 198 consecutive patients receiving thrombolytic therapy over a 59-month period. data on the 156 remaining patients were pooled for comparison (group ii). group i patients were predominantly men (86%) who were cigarette smokers (81%). group ii patients were predominantly men (75%, p greater than 0.10) but were significantly older (52 +/- 12 vs 56 +/- 10 years, p = 0.02). prior acute mi or angina was unusual in group i. sixty percent had no significant (greater than 50%) residual coronary artery disease while 25% had residual single artery disease. average significant (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) residual vessel disease was 0.6 +/- 1.0 for group i and 1.9 +/- 0.9 for group ii (p less than 0.001). in group i, average residual infarct lesion diameter stenosis was 36 +/- 7% in the right anterior oblique and 34 +/- 8% in the left anterior oblique views. thirty-nine group i patients were discharged with medical therapy and 100% follow-up was obtained over a mean interval of 18 +/- 17 months. fifteen patients experienced chest pain after acute mi accounting for 17 discrete events. fifty-nine percent of group i had a benign course on follow-up. eight events were classified as unstable angina, 4 as acute mi and 5 as atypical angina. documented coronary vasospasm occurred in 3.
kaposi's sarcoma of the rectum in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. we retrospectively reviewed eight patients with biopsy-proven anorectal kaposi's sarcoma (ks) treated between 1984 and 1989 at san francisco general hospital. all patients were homosexual men with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). the average age was 34 years. three patients had primary rectal ks without metastases. five patients had disseminated ks with lesions throughout the alimentary tract, viscera, skin, or local lymph nodes. three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy. five patients had disseminated ks with lesions throughout the alimentary tract, viscera, skin, or local lymph nodes. three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy. five patients with advanced aids received no specific treatment for anorectal ks. follow-up ranged from 1 month to 5 years. three of the untreated patients and the three patients treated with chemotherapy or radiotherapy were alive 1 month to 5 years after diagnosis. aggressive surgical treatment of anorectal ks is not indicated.
gastroesophageal reflux in infants. clinically significant gastroesophageal reflux occurs in one in 500 infants. symptoms resolve in 60 to 80 percent of infants by 18 months of age. thickened formula and position changes are often recommended. medication and surgical intervention may be needed in refractory cases.
lacunar transient ischaemic attacks: a clinically useful concept? lacunar ischaemic stroke syndromes are clinically, pathophysiologically, and prognostically distinguishable from cortical ischaemic stroke syndromes. could cerebrovascular transient ischaemic attacks (tias) share similar heterogeneity? 130 patients with tias were prospectively studied, 71 of whom underwent carotid angiography. symptoms were associated with a 50% or greater stenosis of the ipsilateral internal carotid artery in 36 (67%) of 54 patients with presumed cortical tias, but in only 1 (6%) of 17 patients with presumed lacunar tias (p less than 0.0001). these findings support the view that cortical tias are associated with ipsilateral extracranial internal carotid artery atheromatous disease, whereas patients with lacunar tias may have absent or insignificant large-vessel disease, and probable intracranial small-vessel disease. accurate distinction between lacunar and cortical events may have implications for investigation and treatment of patients with tias.
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function in patients with the premenstrual syndrome. patients with primary affective disorders, such as melancholic depression and anorexia nervosa, frequently have a hyperactive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (hpa) axis, characterized by hypersecretion of crh and a blunted acth response to exogenous crh. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a luteal phase dysphoric disorder characterized by primarily affective and behavioral disturbances. hpa axis function was compared in pms patients and control women, respectively, diagnosed by dsm3-r criteria or found to have no current psychiatric disorders, determined by the schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia-lifetime interview. urinary free cortisol excretion was the same in pms and normal women, and no differences in urinary free cortisol excretion between the follicular and luteal phases occurred in either group. two hpa axis abnormalities, however, were noted when pms patients were compared to normal women. first, basal evening cortisol concentrations in plasma were significantly decreased, while the time-integrated response of plasma cortisol to ovine (o) crh was significantly increased. second, the negative correlation between time-integrated plasma acth and cortisol responses to ocrh and basal luteal progesterone concentrations present in normal control women was not seen in the pms patients. these changes in basal and ocrh-stimulated plasma cortisol levels in association with normal urinary free cortisol excretion suggest that women with pms might have transient or episodic disturbances of their hpa axis, which appear adequately corrected by this system's servomechanisms. this probably explains the maintenance of regular menstrual cycles in pms patients, which contrasts with the irregular menses observed in patients with depression, anorexia nervosa, or women who participate in chronic strenuous exercise.
cyst of the choroid plexus in the lateral ventricle: case report and review of the literature. we report an intraventricular cyst in a 2-year-old boy who had myoclonic jerks of the extremities. the cyst had no communication with the ventricular system or subarachnoid space. total removal of the cyst adhering to the choroid plexus was accomplished. the glial cyst wall was lined in part by flattened or cuboidal epithelium. the preoperative and postoperative computed tomographic scans and magnetic resonance images are presented, and congenital benign cysts in the lateral ventricle are reviewed and discussed.
a prospective, randomized study of three surgical techniques for treatment of acute ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament. treatment of acl tears is controversial. recent reports on nonoperative treatment have shown poor results. results after primary repair have deteriorated with time, leading to augmentation procedures that seem to have improved the results. however, there have been few prospective, randomized studies in this field. our goal was to compare primary repair with a bone-patellar tendon-bone augmentation method and with a new method using the kennedy ligament augmentation device. one hundred fifty patients aged 16 to 50, all of whom had acute acl tears, were randomized with the closed envelope method to one of three groups treated with open surgical methods. fifty patients were treated with primary repair, 50 patients with patellar tendon augmentation, and 50 patients were augmented with the kennedy ligament augmentation device. all patients were operated on within 10 days of injury. the rehabilitation protocol was identical, consisting of a long leg cast for 2 weeks, followed by a brace with no weight-bearing and limited motion for 6 weeks. the patients were followed prospectively by one surgeon (le) using the lysholm functional score, tegner activity level score, clinical evaluation and kt-1000 arthrometer at 6 months, 1, and 2 years. three patients were lost to followup. there was no age or activity level difference between the groups. sport activities led to 85% of the injuries, with skiing, soccer, and european handball representing 80% of injuries. all three groups reduced their activity level the 1st year. the repair group remained at the same level after 2 years.
randomized comparison of ceftriaxone and cefotaxime in lyme neuroborreliosis. in this prospective, randomized, open trial, 33 patients with lyme neuroborreliosis were assigned to a 10-day treatment with either ceftriaxone, 2 g intravenously (iv) every 24 h (n = 17), or cefotaxime, 2 g iv every 8 h (n = 16). of the 33 patients, 30 were eligible for analysis of therapeutic efficacy. neurologic symptoms improved or even subsided in 14 patients of the cefotaxime group and in 12 patients of the ceftriaxone group during the treatment period. at follow-up examinations after a mean of 8.1 months, 17 of 27 patients examined were clinically asymptomatic. in one patient borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) 7.5 months after ceftriaxone therapy. csf antibiotic concentrations were above the mic 90 level for b. burgdorferi in nearly all patients examined. patients with lyme neuroborreliosis may benefit from a 10-day treatment with ceftriaxone or cefotaxime. however, as 10 patients were symptomatic at follow-up and borreliae persisted in the csf of one patient, a prolongation of therapy may be necessary.
a case of cecocolic intussusception with complete invagination and intussusception of the appendix with villous adenoma. villous adenoma of the appendix is a rare neoplasm and intussusception of the appendix is a rare pathologic condition. a very rare case seen in a 35-year-old male with pain in the right lateral abdomen is reported. in this patient, the appendix along with the villous adenoma intussuscepted and invaginated into the cecal lumen, and presented as cecocolic intussusception. a polypoid lesion was diagnosed in the cecum by fiberoptic colonoscopy. unlike polypoid lesions at other sites in the large intestine, polypoid lesions of the cecum may accompany intussusception and invagination of the appendix. consequently, caution is required in performing endoscopic polypectomy in cases of polypoid lesions of the cecum.
dysphagia as a manifestation of occult hypoxemia. the role of oximetry during meal times. a 25-year-old woman with severe kyphoscoliosis reported a six-month history of increasing dysphagia to both liquids and solids. a barium swallow and esophageal motility studies showed no significant gastrointestinal abnormalities. trials of antispasmodic agents were unsuccessful in relieving her symptoms. pulmonary function tests showed a severe restrictive ventilatory defect (vital capacity = 0.67 l) with adequate oxygenation and alveolar ventilation as reflected by arterial blood gas testing during quiet wakefulness. however, continuous noninvasive oximetry demonstrated desaturation to 85 percent while eating. these transient episodes of desaturation were abolished by the administration of supplemental oxygen delivered by nasal prongs. following the prescription of supplemental oxygen, dysphagia resolved immediately, with weight gain following over several weeks. we conclude that dysphagia may be a presenting feature of hypoxemia. this case report draws attention to the usefulness of continuous noninvasive monitoring of oxygenation and the clinical importance of at least some transient hypoxemic events.
clinical and physiological study of anal sphincter and ileal j pouch before preileostomy closure and 6 and 12 months after closure of loop ileostomy. spontaneous evolution of pouch and anal function, and absorption features has been assessed in 15 patients who underwent proctocolectomy with j ileal pouch anastomosis without conservation of a rectal muscular cuff. all the patients were studied before preileostomy closure and six and 12 months after the closure of the protection loop ileostomy. stool frequency was identical at six and 12 months (mean +/- sem: 5.0 +/- 0.4 and 5.3 +/- 0.5/day, respectively). sixty-six percent of patients at six months and 40% of patients at 12 months need to defecate at least one time during night. stool weight as well as steatorrhea decreased significantly six months after the closure of loop ileostomy (p less than 0.05). mean resting anal pressure remained unchanged six and 12 months after closure of the loop ileostomy (41 +/- 6 and 45 +/- 5 cm h2o, respectively). maximum squeeze anal pressures increased significantly at six (p less than 0.05) and 12 months (p less than 0.05). the rectoanal inhibitory reflex was always absent at the same period. the maximum pouch capacity increased significantly during the first six months (p less than 0.01) from 142 +/- 17 to 279 +/- 27 ml. the maximum infused volume during a saline continence test was not significantly different at six and 12 months; the percentage of evacuation of the reservoir and the volume at which the first ileal contraction appeared in the reservoir increased significantly (p less than 0.05) at six and 12 months. in conclusion, in patients with ileoanal anastomosis and pouch reservoir, the closure of the loop ileostomy is associated with spontaneous modifications of the anal and pouch parameters.
neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer: the evolving role of surgery. the role of an operation in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy for clinically localized but invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder currently is evolving. an operation is essential for case selection and evaluation of local response but it also contributes to bladder preservation and survival. the procedure that is necessary to select for and assess response to chemotherapy may itself alter the actual or proceed to evolution of invasive bladder cancer. neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a reasonable therapeutic strategy in selected patients but it remains to be seen whether the results will prove to be superior to those achieved with standard endoscopic and open operations.
malignant melanoma presenting as nasal obstruction. mucosal melanomas arising in the nasal cavity are rare tumors comprising less than 1 percent of all melanomas. often, the common clinical symptom is nasal obstruction. grossly, they may or may not be pigmented and frequently attain large sizes. histologic diagnosis of these tumors may be difficult, requiring immunohistochemical or electron microscopic confirmation. aggressive surgical management is the treatment of choice in clinical stage i disease. subsequent surveillance for recurrence is mandatory. markers such as 5-s-cysteinyldopa may prove useful in staging, prognosticating, and postoperative surveillance for early recurrence, but their exact role has yet to be delineated. ultimate prognosis is poor.
application of 1 nm gold probes on paraffin wax sections for in situ hybridisation histochemistry. an in situ hybridisation technique that uses 1 nm immunogold reagents and silver enhancement was devised to detect biotinylated dna viral probes in formalin fixed, paraffin wax sections of human cervix. dna probes labelled with biotin-11-deoxyuridine triphosphate were detected after hybridisation to nucleic acid sequences by an antibiotin antibody, followed by a gold labelled secondary antibody. silver enhancement then permitted visualisation of the signal at the light microscopic level. the method was reliable and produced less background staining than previously described methods. the signal could be enhanced by epi polarisation microscopy. furthermore, biotinylated dna probes may be detected directly by a 1 nm gold labelled goat antibiotin antibody without loss of labelling intensity, and this may be preferable to the longer two layer technique, previously described.
the indian experience with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. a study of 58 consecutive indian infants operated for congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis revealed an accentuated male predominance in the incidence of the disease and far less preoperative hemetemesis as compared to that in their western counterparts. 'pyloric tumor' was palpable in 89% of cases. only 34.5% of these infants were first born. postoperative vomiting occurred in 13.8% of patients and wound sepsis was not encountered. air contrast radiography confirmed the diagnosis in clinically doubtful cases.
cytosolic free calcium during focal cerebral ischemia and the effects of nimodipine on calcium and histologic damage. the role of calcium as a mediator in neuronal death during ischemia is now quite strong. evidence supporting this link includes studies in cell cultures and measurements of calcium accumulation in the mitochondria during ischemia, as well as direct measurements of shifts in extracellular calcium using microelectrodes. since it is dangerously high concentrations of the intracellular free calcium that have been hypothesized to lead to neuronal damage, direct in vivo measurements of this parameter in ischemia are important. a technique for the measurement of intracellular free calcium is described, along with data from studies that dramatically demonstrate the time course of changes in intracellular free calcium induced by focal ischemia. additional data are also presented that indicate that cellular damage can be attenuated by the use of agents that block calcium channels (nimodipine, which blocks voltage-sensitive calcium channels, and mk-801, which blocks receptor-operated channels) and support the concept that these agents owe their beneficial effects to their ability to reduce the accumulation of intracellular calcium.
mutation of the p53 gene in human acute myelogenous leukemia. heterogeneity of p53 protein expression is seen in blast cells of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (aml). p53 protein is detected in the blasts of certain aml patients but not in others. we have identified p53 protein variants with abnormal mobility on gel electrophoresis and/or prolonged half-life (t 1/2). we have sequenced the p53 coding sequence from primary blast cells of five aml patients and from the aml cell line (ocim2). in ocim2, a point mutation in codon 274 was identified that changes a valine residue to aspartic acid. a wild type p53 allele was not detected in these cells. two point mutations (codon 135, cysteine to serine; codon 246, methionine to valine) were identified in cdna from blasts of one aml patient. both mutations were present in blast colonies grown from single blast progenitor cells, indicating that individual leukemia cells had sustained mutation of both p53 alleles. the cdnas sequenced from blast samples of four other patients, including one with prolonged p53 protein t 1/2 and one with no detectable p53 protein, were fully wild type. thus, the heterogeneity of p53 expression cannot be explained in all cases by genetic change in the p53 coding sequence. the prolonged t 1/2 of p53 protein seen in some aml blasts may therefore reflect changes not inherent to p53. a model is proposed in which mutational inactivation of p53, although not required for the evolution of neoplasia, would confer a selective advantage, favoring clonal outgrowth during disease progression.
postangiographic femoral artery injuries: nonsurgical repair with us-guided compression ultrasound-guided compression repair (ugcr) of catheterization-related femoral artery injuries was evaluated as a possible new imaging-guided interventional procedure. thirty-nine femoral artery injuries (35 pseudoaneurysms, four arteriovenous fistulas) were detected with color doppler flow imaging in patients with enlarging groin hematomas and/or groin bruits 6 hours to 14 days after catheterization procedures. ugcr was not performed in 10 patients due to spontaneous thrombosis (n = 4), infection (n = 1) or skin ischemia (n = 1), unsuitable anatomy (n = 3), or excessive discomfort (n = 1). the remaining 29 patients underwent a full trial of compression therapy, and the lesion was eliminated in 27. follow-up color flow scans were obtained after 24-72 hours in all 27 successful cases and at 1-15 months in 19; no recurrences or complications occurred. ugcr for acute injuries is safe and technically simple and is promising as a cost-effective, first-line treatment for uncomplicated catheterization-related femoral artery injuries. ugcr is probably not appropriate for long-standing injuries.
a videofluoroscopy chair for the evaluation of dysphagia in patients with severe neuromotor disease. due to the difficulties encountered in positioning severely neurologically impaired individuals for videofluoroscopic studies, the rehab tech video fluorochair was developed. the purpose of the chair is to provide the severely disabled patient with safe, stable postural support in an upright position for videofluoroscopic studies, with anterior-posterior, lateral, and rotational views easily performed. the chair features a removable headrest, a full back support, armrests, lateral truncal supports, and a patented base which is clamped to the footboard of the radiology table and allows for 200 degrees rotation of the patient. two case studies illustrate the practical use and versatility of the rehab tech video fluorochair.
plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity treated by radiation therapy. plasma cell granuloma is a rare, benign tumor most commonly found in the lungs in patients younger than 30 years. although presentation has been reported at a number of other anatomic sites, this report is the first of plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity. the tumor was initially resected, but progression was seen at 1-month follow-up. because further surgery to completely eradicate the tumor would have been extensive and disfiguring, 40-gy external beam radiation was given in 20 fractions using a three-field wedge technique. most recent clinical follow-up at 27 months showed local control. surgery remains the treatment of choice for plasma cell granuloma when the disease can be completely resected. however, irradiation can also be effective in patients with recurrent or inoperable local disease.
syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of the resection of a chordoma of the clivus: case report. syringomyelia has been described frequently in association with various abnormalities of the skull base but rarely with tumors of the skull base. syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of surgery of the skull base has not been reported. the authors describe a case of cervical syringomyelia developing after the partial resection of a chordoma and combined conventional and proton beam irradiation. the possible mechanisms causing this abnormality are discussed.
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty in the management of clotted hemodialysis grafts: early and late clinical results. the results of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty of 121 thrombosed hemodialysis grafts were reviewed. the initial pharmacomechanical method (used in 65 cases) employed clot maceration with hook-shaped catheters and clot lacing with highly concentrated urokinase. the current technique (used in 56 cases) consisted of pulsed-spray injection of urokinase into the clot. all fully treated grafts (117 cases) underwent complete or near-complete thrombolysis, and 93% remained patent after 1 day. mean time for pulsed-spray lysis was 46 minutes +/- 21. one patient (less than 1%) had gastrointestinal bleeding and received a transfusion; minor complications occurred in 3% of patients. primary and secondary graft patency rates for both methods at 1 year were 26% and 51%, respectively. while graft age and results of angioplasty did not influence future graft patency, shorter intervals between graft thromboses was predictive of earlier subsequent graft failure. results suggest that pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty provide rapid, consistent, and safe recanalization of clotted hemodialysis grafts and represent a promising additional therapeutic approach to long-term graft management.
integration of hepatitis b vaccination into rural african primary health care programmes. objective--to determine the efficacy of hepatitis b vaccine when added to the routine expanded programme on immunisation under field conditions in rural africa. design--infants were immunised according to two schedules--an early schedule at birth, 3 months, and 6 months and a later schedule to correspond with routine vaccination in the expanded programme on immunisation at 3 months, 4 1/2 months, and 6 months. setting--venda, northern transvaal, south africa, a self governing region of 7460 square kilometers varying from rural villages to small towns. subjects--the 1989 birth cohort of venda. main outcome measures--coverage for hepatitis b vaccine at first, second, and third doses; serological assessment of vaccine efficacy by prevalence of antibodies to hepatitis b surface antigen in infants who had completed the three dose course of immunisation; antibodies to hepatitis b core antigen to determine if natural infection occurred. results--vaccine coverage for hepatitis b dropped sharply from 99% to 53% to 39% for the first, second, and third dose respectively. in contrast, vaccine coverage was maintained at 97-99% for the three doses of poliomyelitis vaccine. serological evaluation of vaccine efficacy showed that only 3.5% of recipients of all three doses failed to develop antibodies to hepatitis b surface antigen. only 6.6% of vaccine recipients were vaccinated according to either the early or later schedules whereas 93.4% received their doses of vaccine at intervals beyond the limits of either of the planned schedules. there was, however, no significant difference in seroconversion to the surface antigen between the "unscheduled" or scheduled groups of those who were vaccinated according to the early or late schedules. the pattern of prevalence of antibodies to hepatitis b core antigen, which showed a sharp fall in children aged over 7 months, suggested that the antibodies were acquired passively rather than by active infection. conclusions--supplementation of the present expanded programme on immunisation with hepatitis b vaccine in rural africa is fraught with difficulties. however, the vaccine was effective within a fairly wide spacing of dosage. adding hepatitis b vaccine to diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis as a tetravalent vaccine is proposed as a means of effectively integrating it into the expanded programme on immunisation in third world settings.
multifocal gastric carcinoma arising from hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps. this paper is a presentation of the unusual case of a 61-yr-old woman operated on for multiple gastric cancers. two of the cancers were found in the hyperplastic polyps and one in the adenoma. apart from cancers that arose from these polyps, there were four separate polypoid or flat gastric carcinomas and three other hyperplastic polyps with no signs of malignancy, in this case. the presentation is followed by a detailed discussion focusing on the possible development of carcinoma in gastric hyperplastic polyps in view of the data from the literature.
acute myocarditis simulating myocardial infarction in a child. pediatric chest pain usually occurs in benign conditions. however, this case portrays the dramatic electrocardiographic appearance of acute myocardial ischemia in a boy with biopsy-proven myocarditis who had only mild chest pain. this underscores the need for eliciting a detailed history when evaluating a patient with chest pain. if the pain cannot be clearly attributed to chest wall phenomena, or if there are historical or physical findings suggestive of an arrhythmia or angina, then further investigation with a chest radiograph and a 12-lead electrocardiogram is recommended. myocarditis must be considered in the differential diagnosis of any child whose electrocardiogram is indistinguishable from an acute myocardial infarction. finally, endomyocardial biopsy allows early diagnosis and institution of therapy, which may have beneficial effect on decreasing morbidity and mortality. further follow-up and research is still needed to evaluate the effect of early treatment of myocarditis on long-term myocardial function and the development of chronic cardiomyopathy.
the clinical importance of drug interactions with antiulcer therapy. the overall safety of a given drug is determined by its toxicity, side effects, and drug-drug interactions. thus, a clarification of the mechanisms, importance, and clinical implications of any drug-drug interaction with antiulcer therapy is critical to the use of antiulcer medications. drug-drug interactions may occur as a result of changes in absorption, metabolism, distribution, or excretion. fortunately, drug distribution or protein binding is unchanged by antiulcer therapy. antiulcer drugs may affect absorption by several mechanisms. ionized medications may bind to the divalent cations of antacids and sucralfate to result in poorly absorbed complexes. reduced gastric acid may decrease the absorption of medications that are weak bases while enhancing the absorption of weak acids. drug absorption may be impaired by delayed gastric emptying. several h2-receptor antagonists, including cimetidine and to a lesser extent ranitidine, and the proton pump inhibitor, omeprazole, may reduce the hepatic degradation of drugs metabolized by the cytochrome p450 system. the degree to which such agents alter drug metabolism is determined by the patient's age, genetics, duration of therapy, degree of cytochrome p450 binding, and the regimen. because the clinical importance of this interaction cannot always be predicted, caution is recommended whenever drugs metabolized by this system are used concurrently. development of an understanding of the ways in which drug metabolism interactions occur may lead to more effective and safe use of these medications.
a single cholesterol measurement underestimates the risk of coronary heart disease. an empirical example from the lipid research clinics mortality follow-up study. in prospective epidemiologic studies of coronary heart disease, a single measurement of cholesterol is made to assess its relationship to the risk of coronary disease. statistical theory states that if this measurement is subject to within-individual variability, the strength of the relationship will be underestimated. this is empirically shown for the example of plasma cholesterol. for the lipid research clinics follow-up study population (comprising 2170 white men over 30 years of age), the age-adjusted coronary heart disease mortality regression coefficient increases from .453 to .496 if the average of two cholesterol measurements is used instead of a single measurement. since the correlation between the two repeated cholesterol measurements is .815, an increase in the regression coefficient up to .556 would be expected if the true cholesterol values were available. thus, epidemiologic studies have substantially underestimated the strength of the relationship between cholesterol levels and the risk of coronary disease by calculating the relationship on the basis of a single cholesterol determination.
infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis. a case of infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis in a 7-year-old girl is reported. acute dacryocystitis is uncommon in this age group, and an underlying systemic illness should be suspected particularly when it is bilateral.
regional wall thickening of left ventricle evaluated by gated positron emission tomography in relation to myocardial perfusion and glucose metabolism. regional wall thickening was assessed by electrocardiographically gated positron emission tomography (ecg-gated pet) in 26 patients with coronary artery disease. the standardized percent count increase from end-diastole to end-systole (s-percent cl) was calculated as an index of wall thickening. the s-percent cl was 77.8% +/- 28.9% in the segments with normal perfusion at rest, 51.9% +/- 29.5% in those with mild hypoperfusion, and 32.8% +/- 30.9% in those with severe hypoperfusion (p less than 0.001, each). among the segments with resting hypoperfusion, the s-percent cl was 38.9% +/- 31.5% in those without stress-induced ischemia and 48.7% +/- 30.9% in those with ischemia (p less than 0.05). furthermore, among resting severe hypoperfusion, the s-percent cl was 23.0% +/- 23.9% in the segments without fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) uptake and 37.8 +/- 32.9% in those with fdg uptake (p less than 0.05). these results suggest that stress-induced ischemia and fdg accumulation correlated with wall thickening. thus, quantitative analysis of regional wall thickening seems to be useful for combined analysis of regional function, perfusion and metabolism in coronary patients.
susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine tcr alpha and myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14. this study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3 (cvb3)-induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model. an autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease (amd) gene (possibly more than one gene), which determined susceptibility to cvb3-induced chronic myocarditis in the a/j and dba/2j inbred mouse strains, was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14. data from both the axb/bxa recombinant inbred (ri) strains and the b10.d2(57n) h-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship. analysis of the axb/bxa ri strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the np-2, tcr alpha, and myhc alpha loci.
nortriptyline treatment of depressed cardiac transplant recipients. the safety of tricyclic antidepressants in cardiac transplant recipients has not been established. the author used nortriptyline to treat major depressive episodes in eight cardiac transplant recipients. nortriptyline therapy was associated with increased qrs interval and heart rate but did not significantly affect other hemodynamic or ecg variables or cyclosporine dose requirements. it appears that nortriptyline may be used safely in depressed cardiac transplant patients.
titration streptomycin therapy for bilateral meniere's disease. follow-up report. initial reports of the use of parenteral streptomycin for bilateral meniere's disease (md) have demonstrated success in reducing the vestibular symptoms and, in some patients, stabilizing hearing. the long-term follow-up (mean, 5.1 years) of 19 patients treated with intramuscular streptomycin for bilateral md is presented. the amount of streptomycin administered (5 to 50 g) was determined by clinical symptoms and by serial testing of the reduction in the slow-phase velocity on electronystagmography. episodic vertigo was totally relieved in 12 patients and improved in severity and frequency in an additional 4 patients. permanent posttreatment dysequilibrium occurred in 47% of the patients treated. the changes in hearing (speech reception threshold) were independent of the therapeutic effect of streptomycin on the vestibular system. the overall results suggest that the intramuscular titration of streptomycin should continue to be considered as one of the therapeutic options in patients with disabling vertigo due to bilateral md.
altered waveform of plasma nocturnal melatonin secretion in premenstrual depression. the nocturnal secretion of plasma melatonin was determined under dim to dark conditions in eight patients with prospectively confirmed premenstrual syndrome and in eight age- and menstrual cycle phase-matched normal control subjects. plasma samples for melatonin were collected every 30 minutes from 6 pm to 9 am during the early follicular, late follicular, midluteal and late luteal phases of the menstrual cycle. compared with normal controls, patients with premenstrual syndrome had an earlier (phase-advanced) offset of melatonin secretion, which contributed to a shorter secretion duration and a decreased area under the curve. no statistically significant differences were found between women with premenstrual syndrome and normal controls for melatonin onset or peak concentration, or for estradiol or progesterone levels. the data demonstrate that women with premenstrual syndrome have chronobiological abnormalities of melatonin secretion. the fact that these patients respond to treatments that affect circadian physiology, such as sleep deprivation and phototherapy, suggests that circadian abnormalities may contribute to the pathogenesis of premenstrual syndrome.
rett syndrome: cerebellar pathology. the cerebellar pathology at autopsy of 5 patients with rett syndrome is described. the patients ranged in age from 7-30 years. all had markedly reduced brain weights with proportionately small cerebella. microscopic examination revealed loss of purkinje cells, atrophy, astrocytic gliosis of the molecular and granular cell layers, and gliosis and loss of myelin in the white matter. cortical atrophy occurred focally along the folia and was often more marked in the tips of the folia. the 2 oldest patients had been treated with phenytoin which may have contributed to the morphologic changes. atrophy and gliosis increased with age or in patients without phenytoin treatment; the youngest patient demonstrated only minor microscopic changes. in addition to the generalized alterations, 1 patient had several adjacent folia with severe atrophy. the results indicate that cerebellar changes in rett syndrome consist of general hypoplasia with the addition of atrophy beginning in childhood and progressing over many years.
delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine. forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined. follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years. postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5% of patients with incomplete injuries. if the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury, neurologic improvement occurred in 68% with an improvement in frankel grade of 32%. bladder function improved in 27% of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43%. conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50% improvement. there was an 83% improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression. of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity, 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery.
angioedema from angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: a cause of upper airway obstruction. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors have several side effects of concern to the otolaryngologist. angioedema is a rare, but potentially lethal adverse effect when associated with upper airway obstruction. four cases of ace-inhibitor-induced angioedema, three with significant upper airway obstruction, are reported. angioedema secondary to ace inhibition appears to be mechanism based. the probable link is the potentiation of bradykinin, which results in vasodilation, increased vascular permeability, and angioedema. since angioedema can progress to upper airway obstruction, otolaryngologists must be aware of this association. the differential diagnosis and treatment of this adverse effect is discussed, as well as a review of ace inhibitors and other causes of angioedema.
heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and other inflammatory diseases. heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei is an in vitro phenomenon accompanying inflammatory diseases. we studied 62 patients with suspected polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) to determine, whether heat induced radial segmentation can help in discriminating pmr from other conditions. at the initial presentation patients with pmr had more radial segmentation formation than patients with other inflammatory conditions. prednisone induced a rapid and marked decrease in radial segmentation formation in patients with pmr. this latter finding was much less marked in patients with other inflammatory conditions. we conclude that heat induced radial segmentation at the initial presentation and during prednisone treatment can help in discriminating pmr from other inflammatory conditions.
nuclear dna profiles in primary melanomas and their metastases. dna-aneuploid primary melanomas are said to show a greater propensity to metastasize than those without an aneuploid profile. a higher aneuploid rate has also been reported in metastatic melanomas than in primary lesions. the ploidy profile was determined of 26 primary melanomas and their first subsequent secondaries on feulgen-stained sections from routinely processed material using a computerized video image-analysis system. in 18 of 26 cases, both primary and secondary tumor showed similar corresponding dna patterns. these were aneuploid in 13 of 18 of the cases. a hyperdiploid pattern was present in one case in both the primary and its metastasis, and a diploid pattern was seen in four cases. there were only eight cases in which a disparity between the nuclear ploidy profile in the primary and secondary tumor was evident. although the results suggest that ploidy studies are not useful for predicting the metastatic potential of a primary melanoma, the maintenance of similar dna profiles in the metastases in most of these cases was interesting in regard to tumor biology.
new calcium antagonists: relevance of vasoselectivity. the calcium antagonists are a heterogeneous class of drugs used to treat a number of cardiovascular disorders. a new generation of calcium antagonists under development have a higher degree of selectivity for vascular smooth muscle and coronary vasculature compared with verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem. the clinical relevance of vasoselectivity and its impact on drug selection are discussed. the newer calcium antagonists are important alternatives to older agents and may be associated with improved tolerance and a reduced incidence of adverse effects. their place in therapy has yet to be defined by comparative studies of efficacy and safety.
postoperative analgesic requirements in patients exposed to positive intraoperative suggestions. objective--to establish whether positive suggestions given to a patient under general anaesthesia reduce postoperative pain and analgesic requirements. design--prospective double blind randomised study. setting--operating theatre and gynaecology ward of a teaching hospital. patients--63 woman undergoing elective abdominal hysterectomy were randomised to be played either a tape of positive suggestions or a blank tape during the operation through a personal stereo system. interventions--three women were withdrawn from the study. anaesthesia was standardised for all of the women. postoperative analgesia was provided through a patient controlled analgesia system for the first 24 hours. pain scores were recorded every six hours. main outcome measures--morphine consumption over the first 24 hours after the operation; pain scores. results--mean morphine requirements were 51.0 mg (95% confidence interval 42.1 to 60.0 mg in the women played positive suggestions; and 65.7 mg (55.6 to 75.7 mg) in those played a blank tape. the point estimate (95% confidence interval) for the difference of means was 14.6 mg (22.4%) (1.9 (2.9%) to 27.3 mg (41.6%] (p = 0.028). pain scores were similar in the two groups. conclusion--positive intraoperative suggestions seem to have a significant effect in reducing patients' morphine requirements in the early postoperative period.
differential alpha-fetoprotein lectin binding in hepatocellular carcinoma. diagnostic utility at low serum levels. the reactivity of serum alpha-fetoprotein (afp) from 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) with immobilized lentil lectin was examined and found to be significantly greater (39% +/- 18%) than that of the same protein from seven patients with chronic liver disease (cld, 11.2% +/- 3.3%), seven with fulminant hepatic failure (fhf, 10% +/- 8.4%), and eight normal pregnant women (4.1% +/- 2.7%). the reactivity with concanavalin a (con a) was also significantly greater for afp from hcc patients (44.5% +/- 12.5%) than that from fhf patients (7.7% +/- 4%) and normal pregnant women (5.3% +/- 3.3%), but not from patients with cld. the reactivity with lentil lectin permitted distinction between those with hcc (31.3% +/- 14.1%) and those with uncomplicated cld (11.2% +/- 8.4%) even when the absolute levels of serum afp were in the same range (80-400 ng/ml). evaluation of the alterations by lectin binding methodology may be useful in overcoming problems associated with distinguishing between malignant and cld, particularly at moderate serum afp elevations.
intravital detection of skin capillary aneurysms by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green in patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and related disorders. conventional capillaroscopy and infrared fluorescence videomicroscopy with indocyanine green were performed at the nailfold in 12 healthy controls and 38 patients with microangiopathy due to systemic sclerosis or related disorders. saccular aneurysms featuring head and neck (type 1) and aneurysmatic enlargements (type 2) were defined. microaneurysms were located at the apex or near the apex of capillary loops and were significantly more common in patients than in controls (p less than 0.02 for type 1 and p less than 0.001 for type 2). combination of the two lesions was found only in patients and appears to be a valuable new diagnostic sign for the presence of microangiopathy. in comparison with conventional capillaroscopy, about twice as many microaneurysms were detected by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green coupling almost completely to plasma proteins. the new technique allows visualization of capillary aneurysms even when filled only by plasma.
catheterization laboratory events and hospital outcome with direct angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction to assess the safety of direct infarct angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy, catheterization laboratory and hospital events were assessed in consecutively treated patients with infarctions involving the left anterior descending (n = 100 patients), right (n = 100), and circumflex (n = 50) coronary arteries. the groups of patients were similar for age (left anterior descending coronary artery, 59 years; right coronary artery, 58 years; circumflex coronary artery, 62 years), patients with multivessel disease (left anterior descending coronary artery, 55%; right coronary artery, 55%; circumflex coronary artery, 64%), and patients with initial grade 0/1 antegrade flow (left anterior descending coronary artery, 79%; right coronary artery, 84%; circumflex coronary artery, 90%). cardiogenic shock was present in eight patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, four with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery. major catheterization laboratory events (cardioversion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, dopamine or intra-aortic balloon pump support for hypotension, and urgent surgery) occurred in 10 patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, eight with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery (16 of 16 shock and six of 234 nonshock patients, p less than 0.001). there was one in-laboratory death (shock patient with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery).
early identification of hearing loss: listen to parents. families of 49 hearing-impaired children responded to a questionnaire requesting information about the identification of their child's hearing loss. parents were the first to suspect the hearing loss in 48 cases but more often than not were told that the child would outgrow it or was too young to test. when professionals agreed with the parents and attended to their concerns, confirmation of the hearing loss occurred significantly more rapidly than when they disagreed with parents and ignored their concerns. a child whose hearing loss is not clearly identified and whose communication is inadequate or nonexistent, causes frustration and stress within the family and prevents the child from receiving the maximum benefit from early language input and amplification. it would benefit both the child and family if professionals would listen to parental concerns regarding their child and assist in the early identification process.
embolic stroke after smoking "crack" cocaine. a 39-year-old woman had an embolic upper division middle cerebral artery branch occlusion 3 hours after smoking the free base of cocaine ("crack"). radionuclide ventriculography demonstrated cardiomyopathy, and echocardiography documented a left atrial thrombus. this case demonstrates that embolism is one mechanism of ischemic stroke after cocaine use, and that cardiomyopathy, possibly cocaine induced, may be the source of embolus. a cardiac source of embolus should be sought in patients with cocaine-associated cerebral infarction.
acceleration of scrapie in trisomy 16----diploid aggregation chimeras. we studied the susceptibility to prion infection of the trisomy 16----diploid chimeric mouse, a putative model of down syndrome. when weanling chimeras were inoculated intracerebrally with scrapie prions, the time until appearance of the first symptoms of scrapie was reduced by 17 days (from a mean control time of 153 days) and the time to death was reduced by 30 days (from control time of 170 days). our results with trisomy 16 chimeras argue that the susceptibility to central nervous system degeneration caused by prions can be modulated by chromosome imbalance.
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection in the peoples republic of china. meta-analysis on data from 16 (two volunteer and 14 endoscopic) studies ahs been performed to investigate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection in the stomachs of individuals within the peoples republic of china. in this survey covering 2216 cases (89 volunteers and 2127 endoscopy patients), the incidence of h. pylori infection in 15- to 22-yr-old healthy volunteers, and in 13- to 88-yr-old symptomatic patients undergoing gastroscopy was 49.4% and 64.5%, respectively. the frequency of h. pylori infection in chronic gastritis (63.6%), gastric ulcer (71.9%), and duodenal ulcer disease (73.1%) differed significantly from that in histologically normal individuals (8.2%), confirming the relationship of h. pylori infection with those disease states. we found no significant association between h. pylori infection and symptoms.
skeletal muscle depressed calcium and phosphofructokinase in chronic heart failure are upregulated by captopril--a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril, after treatment for 5-6 weeks with 25 mg t.i.d., were studied in 12 patients with stable moderate heart failure. five patients received placebo treatment, and the two groups were comparable at baseline. angiotensin ii levels decreased in response to captopril therapy. skeletal muscle potassium, magnesium and chloride levels did not differ from reference values. calcium was subnormal (p less than 0.0001), but increased to the reference range during captopril treatment. phosphofructokinase, a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme, was in the lower reference range and increased (p less than 0.04) in response to captopril therapy. in conclusion, stable moderate heart failure is associated with low levels of skeletal muscle calcium and phosphofructokinase activity, these metabolic changes tending to return to normal levels with captopril treatment.
normeperidine-induced seizures in hereditary coproporphyria. seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria, even though the etiology is not identified in most cases. we have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria. although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients, this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria. normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants.
impairment of esophageal emptying with hiatal hernia. concurrent videofluoroscopy and manometry were used to analyze esophageal emptying during barium swallows in 22 patients with axial hiatal hernias and in 14 volunteers. subjects were divided into three groups: (a) volunteers with maximal phrenic ampullary length less than 2 cm (controls); (b) patients or volunteers with maximal ampullary/hiatal hernia length greater than or equal to 2 cm that reduced between swallows (reducing-hernia group); and (c) patients with hernias that did not reduce between swallows. complete esophageal emptying without retrograde flow was achieved in 86% of test swallows in the controls, 66% in the reducing-hernia group, and 32% in the nonreducing-hernia group (p less than 0.05). impaired emptying in the reducing-hernia group was attributable to "late retrograde flow," whereby barium squirted retrograde from the hernia during emptying. impaired emptying in the nonreducing-hernia group was attributable to "early retrograde flow" that occurred immediately after les relaxation. the nonreducing-hernia group also had longer acid clearance times than the controls (p less than 0.05). we conclude that gastroesophageal junction competence is severely impaired in patients with nonreducing hiatal hernias, suggesting a mechanism whereby this subgroup of hiatal hernia is involved in the pathogenesis of reflux disease.
cardiovascular risk reduction: the role of antihypertensive treatment. the effects of antihypertensive drugs on mortality from stroke, coronary artery disease (cad), and nonvascular causes have been studied in 14 trials involving more than 37,000 patients. in the treated patients, blood pressure was 5 to 6 mm hg lower than that in placebo-treated patients, and whereas mortality from stroke was reduced by 42%, cad mortality was reduced by only 14%. a major reason for this lack of effect on cad mortality is apparently the adverse effects of the primary drugs used in these trials (diuretics and beta blockers) on glucose tolerance, lipid levels, and insulin resistance. the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors favorably influence many cad risk factors, and their use can be expected to reduce cad mortality in patients treated for hypertension.
septal ventricular pacing in the immature canine heart: a new perspective. cardiac pacing initiated from epicardial or transvenous apical right ventricular electrodes causes asynchronous ventricular contraction. this alters myocardial stress vectors and results in adverse cellular and subcellular changes in the experimental animal. clinically, such changes may contribute to the adverse hemodynamics reported with long-term ventricular pacing. to determine the feasibility of direct stimulation of the ventricular specialized conduction systems and therefore the potential for maintenance of normalized depolarization patterns, 13 beagle puppies were studied. baseline ventricular activation and contraction patterns were obtained using intracardiac electrograms and multigated nuclear acquisition (muga) imaging. septal electrode insertion from the aortoatrial groove was accomplished by use of two-dimensional echocardiography and continuous electrocardiographic (ecg) monitoring of the surface ecg during pacemaker implantation in five puppies. standard right ventricular epicardial electrodes were implanted in five additional animals, with three remaining as age-matched non-paced controls. after 4 months of observation, repeat muga imaging and intracardiac electrograms demonstrated nearly normal biventricular activation and contraction patterns among the septal-paced group. histopathologic examination illustrated normal cellular morphology in the septal-paced animals. this study demonstrates that pacing electrode insertion into the proximal interventricular septum is feasible and results in utilization of the normal ventricular conduction pathway. such an approach to initiation of ventricular stimulation may attenuate the adverse effects of long-term ventricular pacing.
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia. fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia, so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients. although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age, from 5 weeks to 40 years, gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95% of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring. panendoscopy was a useful adjunct. preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting, respiratory infections, and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction. severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration, dependence on gavage feedings, or poor weight gain and dehydration. follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years; 55 patients (85%) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment. we had no instances of surgical death. the long-term mortality rate was 14%, primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease. beyond the first postoperative year, 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration, exacerbation of preexisting lung disease, or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux. of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively, six had recurrence of reflux. recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients (12%), and we revised the fundoplication in three patients. the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients, neither of whom had recurrence of reflux. because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent, concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia, before the development of severe respiratory disease. despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients, the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status, decreased vomiting, and decreased respiratory problems. appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation. the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia.
diffusing capacity of the lung and nifedipine in systemic sclerosis. lung involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due in part to a functional abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature. to investigate the possible role of a pulmonary vasospastic process in this disorder, 21 non-smoking patients who had no evidence of cardiac disease or pulmonary hypertension were evaluated with pulmonary function tests prior to administration of nifedipine, 30 minutes after a single oral dose of nifedipine (20 mg), and after 4 weeks of treatment with nifedipine (10 mg 3 times daily). treatment with nifedipine did not significantly change any of the pulmonary function values, except for the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (dlco). the linear trend between the individual dlco values at baseline and their changes immediately following the initial 20-mg dose of nifedipine (r = -0.603, p = 0.02) and after 4 weeks of treatment (r = -0.636, p = 0.01) showed that the lower the dlco value at baseline, the greater the improvement caused by nifedipine. these findings support the hypothesis of a potentially reversible pulmonary vasospasm in systemic sclerosis and suggest that nifedipine may be useful in the treatment of lung disease in these patients; however, further studies are needed.
emergency laparoscopy. unnecessary abdominal explorations in severely injured patients can be reduced by employing emergent or urgent laparoscopy in blunt abdominal trauma and the obscured, acute abdominal cases. in 150 blunt abdominal trauma cases, a mini-laparoscopy was used in the emergency room or the intensive care unit without major complications. in 56%, the findings were negative. in 19%, the laparoscopic findings were corroborated by surgery. in 25%, a minimal to moderate hemoperitoneum was found and the laparoscopic impression dictated close observation. unnecessary exploration was avoided except in one case. in the elderly high-risk patient with a poor history, abdominal examination can be noninformative. laparoscopy can detect acute appendicitis or organ perforation. in the young female, appendicitis can be differentiated from pelvic inflammatory disease. laparoscopy is more accurate and gives a larger latitude for decision-making than lavage. it can also be useful in the obscured problematic abdominal case.
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping. case report. intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection. a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids.
trends in systolic blood pressure, 24-hour sodium excretion, and stroke mortality in the elderly in belgium. data from six surveys of systolic blood pressure conducted in belgium between 1967 and 1986 were analyzed. the mean ages of the six groups of 3,328 subjects ranged from 70 to 81 years. the prevalence of systolic blood pressure levels above 159 mm hg decreased between 1967 and 1986 from 51% to 21% in men and 66% to 22% in women; severe hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 220 mm hg) nearly disappeared. during the same period, body mass index increased 1.1 kg/m2 in men and was unchanged in women; mean systolic blood pressure decreased from 159 to 142 mm hg in men and from 171 to 147 mm hg in women; the proportion of subjects receiving treatment for hypertension increased from 10% to 36% in men and from 18% to 41% in women; and the mean standardized 24-hour sodium excretion decreased from 265 to 188 mmol in men and from 208 to 160 mmol in women. systolic blood pressure levels were significantly and independently related to sodium excretion in the 1967 and 1972 studies. the decrease in systolic blood pressure in belgium was influenced by the combined effects of more and better treatment for hypertension and a decrease in sodium intake.
comparison of the goode t-tube with the armstrong tube in children with chronic otitis media with effusion. treatment of otitis media with effusion is focused on reaeration of the middle ear cavity. in achieving long-term aeration, the insertion of ventilation tubes that have a long duration of stay can be beneficial. the results are presented of a trial in which the goode t-tube was compared with the armstrong tube. fifteen children were treated between 1981 and 1986 with a t-tube in one ear and a conventional tube in the other. the results are different with regard to duration of stay in the tympanic membrane. re-insertions were necessary in 47 per cent in the armstrong group and in 20 per cent in the t-tube group. otorrhoea occurred in 20 per cent of the armstrong and 13 per cent of the t-tube intubated ears. a persistent perforation was present in 6 per cent of the ears in both groups. it is concluded that the goode t-tube is indicated primarily in cases when long-term ventilation is needed.
scleroderma esophagus. scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by thickening and fibrosis of the skin and visceral involvement that may include the heart, lungs, kidneys, and gastrointestinal tract. at least 40-50% of patients with scleroderma experience esophageal symptoms such as heartburn and dysphagia, while up to 90% of patients have esophageal dysfunction on objective testing at some point in their disease. the disease results in smooth muscle dysfunction that causes esophageal aperistalsis and reduced lower esophageal sphincter pressures. gastroesophageal reflux with poor acid clearance results with an increased incidence of complications such as peptic stricture and barrett's esophagus. aggressive medical therapy is necessary to prevent these and other complications of gastroesophageal reflux.
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm masquerading as occlusion of the inferior vena cava. inflammatory aneurysms are an uncommon disorder that represent between 5% and 10% of abdominal aortic aneurysms. their presentation is often variable and may include pain and obstruction of adjacent anatomic structures. this report describes a 68-year-old man who sought treatment after insidious onset of progressive bilateral lower extremity edema over a 6-month period. noninvasive studies were suggestive of bilateral iliac vein occlusion, and a venogram showed a nearly obstructed vena cava from external compression. a ct scan showed a thick-walled infrarenal abdominal aneurysm. at exploration an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm was found. because of the presence of dense inflammatory changes surrounding the aneurysm and extending into the pelvis, the surgical procedure of choice was an aortobifemoral bypass graft done with dacron. the aneurysmal wall was debrided from the vena cava. his postoperative course was uneventful, his edema resolved, and follow-up noninvasive studies were normal. postoperative venography showed resolution of the extrinsic compression of the vena cava.
safety and efficacy of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. a prospective analysis of 100 initial patients laparoscopic cholecystectomy quickly emerged as an alternative to open cholecystectomy. however its safety, efficacy, and morbidity have yet to be fully evaluated. during the first 6 months of 1990, we performed 100 consecutive laparoscopic cholecystectomies with no deaths and a morbidity rate of 8% (8 of 100 patients; 4 major, 4 minor). there were 81 women and 19 men, with a mean age of 46.1 years (range, 17 to 84 years). all patients had a preoperative history consistent with symptomatic biliary tract disease, and most had proved gallstones by sonography. this included four patients with acute cholecystitis. mean operating time improved significantly from month 1 to month 6 (122 +/- 45.4 minutes versus 78.5 +/- 30 minutes, respectively), indicating a rapid learning curve. mean hospital stay was 27.6 hours, reflecting a policy of overnight stay. postoperative narcotic requirements were limited to oral or no medications in more than 70% of patients. a regular diet was tolerated by 83% of the patients by the morning following the procedure. median time of return to full activity was 12.8 +/- 6.8 days after operation. in addition analysis of the hospital costs of these 100 cases demonstrates a modest cost advantage over standard open cholecystectomy (n = 58) (mean, $3620.25 +/- $1005.00 versus $4251.76 +/- $988.00). there was one minor bile duct injury requiring laparotomy and t-tube insertion, two postoperative bile collections, and one clinical diagnosis of a retained stone that passed spontaneously. four patients required conversion to open cholecystectomy because of technical difficulties with the dissection. although there is a significant learning curve, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe and effective procedure that can be performed with minimal risk. laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed by surgeons who are trained in biliary surgery and knowledgeable in biliary anatomy, and, as with all operations, it should be performed with meticulous attention to technique.
nasal midline masses in infants and children. dermoids, encephaloceles, and gliomas. nasal dermoids, gliomas, and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development. we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions. in view of the potential intracranial connection, patients are at risk for intracranial infection, and early surgical correction is thus imperative. neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement.
physical and pharmacologic restraint of nursing home patients with dementia. impact of specialized units this case-control study of 31 specialized dementia units and 32 traditional units in five states investigated use of physical and pharmacologic restraints among 625 patients with the diagnosis of dementia. physical restraints were observed in use on 18.1% of dementia unit patients and on 51.6% of comparison unit patients who were out of bed during the day (adjusted odds ratio, 0.283;95% confidence interval, 0.129 to 0.619). pharmacologic restraints were routinely given to 45.3% of dementia unit patients and 43.4% of comparison unit patients (adjusted odds ratio, 0.950; 95% confidence interval, 0.611 to 1.477). we used multivariate logistic regression to identify residence in a nonspecialized nursing home unit, nonambulatory status, transfer dependency, mental status impairment, hip fracture history, and a high nursing staff-to-patient ratio, which we found to be independent predictors of physical restraint use. physically abusive behavior, severe mental status impairment, and frequent family visitation were found to be significant predictors of pharmacologic restraint use, while advanced patient age, large nursing home size, and patient nonambulatory status were protective against such use. these results support the conclusion that physical and pharmacologic restraint constitute separate treatment modalities with different risk factors for use, and indicate that specialized dementia units are successful in reducing the use of physical but not pharmacologic restraints.
pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome. a multisystem mitochondrial disorder in infancy. pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome (mckusick no. 26056) is a fatal disorder of hitherto unknown etiology involving the hematopoietic system, exocrine pancreas, liver, and kidneys. the observation of high lactate/pyruvate molar ratios in plasma and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation in lymphocytes led us to postulate that pearson's syndrome belongs to the group of mitochondrial cytopathies. since rearrangements of the mitochondrial genome between direct dna repeats were consistently found in all tissues tested, our results show that this disease is in fact a multisystem mitochondrial disorder, as suggested by the clinical course of the patients. based on these observations, we would suggest giving consideration to the hypothesis of a defect of oxidative phosphorylation in elucidating the origin of other syndromes, especially those associated with an abnormal oxidoreduction status in plasma.
extramedullary hematopoiesis in the liver in sudden infant death syndrome. liver extramedullary hematopoiesis was examined in 54 victims of sudden infant death syndrome and in 21 infants who died of other causes in an attempt to confirm naeye's findings of increased extramedullary hematopoiesis in cases of sudden infant death syndrome. our data showed greater extramedullary hematopoiesis in victims of sudden infant death syndrome (f = 23.52), supporting naeye's hypothesis that victims of sudden infant death syndrome have suffered a subtle, chronic hypoxemic condition before death.
management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps. our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection, either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer, is presented. a total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection. all wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap. fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing, eight of whom had no complications. only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients, with only one patient failing to heal. our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem.
deposits of crystalline material containing silicon in surgically excised human valves. ninety-seven surgically excised natural cardiac valves were examined by scanning electron microscopy and x-ray energy spectroscopy to assess the occurrence of crystalline deposits that contain the element silicon. valves examined included 33 mitral valves, 63 aortic valves, and 1 tricuspid valve. to reduce the possibility of surface contamination, the deep layers of some valves were examined after exposure by fracture of the valve. crystalline material containing silicon was observed in the deep tissue. such crystalline material was sometimes entwined within subendothelial fibers. crystalline deposits that contained silicon were associated with 34 of 97 of these valves (35%). among the 34 valves that showed silicon, 24 (71%) also showed microdeposits of calcific material. in view of evidence that silicon may participate in the calcification of bone, and is found in the intima of arteries, a role for this element in ectopic calcification of valves may exist.
lyme disease: neurologic and ophthalmic manifestations. lyme disease is tick-borne infection which produces early and late manifestations in many organ systems. prominent symptoms and signs occur in skin, heart, joints and nervous system. many ocular and neuro-ophthalmic abnormalities recently have been attributed to lyme disease, but some cases have not been well established as direct sequelae. this review of the contemporary state of knowledge about lyme disease was undertaken so that more rigorous criteria can be applied in future diagnosis.
long-term outcome and prognostic indicators in the hemolytic-uremic syndrome. we examined 61 patients an average of 9.6 years (range 5 to 18 years) after an episode of childhood hemolytic-uremic syndrome. twenty-four (39%) had one or more abnormalities. seven (11%) had proteinuria and six (10%) had low creatinine clearance as solitary abnormalities. eight (13%) had both proteinuria and reduced creatinine clearance; three (5%) had a combination of hypertension, proteinuria, and low creatinine clearance. abnormalities sometimes appeared after an interval of apparent recovery. logistic regression analysis showed that duration of anuria was the best predictor of disease at follow-up. no patients who had anuria lasting longer than 8 days or oliguria exceeding 15 days escaped chronic disease. however, 45% of those with disease had no anuria, and a third had no oliguria. physicians should therefore be cautious in assuming recovery from hus on the basis of a single evaluation and should periodically evaluate patients for an extended period.
successful treatment of metastatic thymic carcinoma with cisplatin, vinblastine, bleomycin, and etoposide chemotherapy. thymic carcinomas are rare malignant neoplasms of the thymic epithelium that are distinguished from the malignant thymomas by the presence of cytologic atypia. thymic carcinomas may metastasize outside of the thorax and are associated with a very poor prognosis. complete responses of thymic carcinoma to chemotherapy alone have not been reported. a 21-year-old man with metastatic undifferentiated carcinoma of probable thymic origin is presented who achieved a pathologic complete response with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin chemotherapy. additional consolidative chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide was administered. the patient remains disease-free 5 years after diagnosis. cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin chemotherapy appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma.
postoperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. s.p.i. research group. cardiac morbidity and mortality after coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery continue to be significant problems. to determine the prevalence, characteristics, and prognostic importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia after cabg surgery, the authors monitored 50 patients continuously for 10 perioperative days with the use of two-lead electrocardiography (ecg). ecg changes consistent with ischemia were defined as a reversible st depression of 1 mm or greater or an elevation of 2 mm or greater from baseline, lasting at least 1 min. baseline was adjusted for positional changes and temporal drift. all episodes were verified, with the use of the ecg monitor printout (ecg complexes), by two independent blinded investigators. clinical care was not controlled by study protocol, and clinicians were unaware of the research data collected. twenty-six of 50 patients (52%) had 207 episodes of perioperative ischemia (3,409 ischemic minutes). postoperatively, ischemia developed in 48% of patients, compared with 12% preoperatively and 10% intraoperatively before bypass. postoperative ischemia was most common in the early period (postoperative days [pods] 0-2; 38% of patients), peaking during the first 2 h after revascularization, and less common during the late postoperative period (pods 3-7; 24% of patients). almost all (120 of 122; 98%) postoperative episodes (after tracheal extubation) were asymptomatic: only 9 of 70 (13%) early episodes were detected by clinical ecg monitoring. postoperative ischemia did not appear to be related to acute changes in myocardial oxygen demand: only 39% of the postoperative episodes were preceded by a greater than 20% increase in heart rate. however, tachycardia persisted throughout the postoperative week (22-33% of all heart rates greater than 100 beats per min), and patients with postoperative ischemia (pod 0) more frequently had tachycardia (median 43% vs. 12% of the time; p less than 0.01). five adverse cardiac outcomes occurred on the day of surgery; all five were preceded by postoperative ischemia, three by intraoperative ischemia before bypass, and none by preoperative ischemia. patients with late postoperative ischemia did not have an adverse cardiac outcome. the authors conclude the following: 1) ischemia is more prevalent postoperatively than preoperatively or intraoperatively before bypass; 2) the incidence of postoperative ischemia peaks shortly after revascularization, during which time it is symptomatically silent, difficult to detect, and related to adverse cardiac outcome; 3) late postoperative ischemia also is silent, but it is less prevalent and not associated with in-hospital adverse cardiac outcome; and 4) a relationship between ischemia and persistently elevated postoperative heart rate may exist and warrants additional investigation.
effects of carotenoids in cellular and animal systems. it has been suggested that carotenoid pigments may function as chemopreventive agents for reducing the risk of cancer in humans. part of this suggestion rests on epidemiological evidence, and part rests on work done in cellular and animal systems. in this article, the experimental evidence for carotenoid inhibition of mutagenicity, malignant transformation, tumor formation, and immunoenhancement is reviewed. although a mechanism for these effects cannot yet be identified, it is clear that the overwhelming evidence in these systems would indicate that carotenoids exert an important influence in modulating the actions of carcinogens.
postauricular cerebellar encephalocoele secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery. cerebellar herniation into the mastoid through the posterior aspect of the temporal bone as a result of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery is a rare event. a case is reported in which such a hernia presented subcutaneously behind the pinna; its repair is discussed.
glossopharyngeal neuralgia associated with cardiac syncope: long term treatment with permanent pacing and carbamazepine. glossopharyngeal neuralgia associated with cardiac syncope developed in a 53 year old man. symptoms were controlled with temporary and permanent transvenous pacing and carbamazepine.
disseminated kaposi's sarcoma not associated with hiv infection in a bisexual man. we report a 42-year-old white bisexual man with disseminated kaposi's sarcoma limited to the skin and gastrointestinal tract. results of several serum tests for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) antibodies have been negative. the cd4/cd8 ratio has remained normal, and his kaposi's sarcoma has had a benign clinical course during 30 months of follow-up. similar reports of disseminated kaposi's sarcoma with a benign clinical course in homosexual or bisexual men without demonstrable hiv infection are reviewed. some cellular immune impairment that might be more prevalent in the homosexual population may be implicated in the pathogenesis of this type of kaposi's sarcoma.
naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms. forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2-year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk. patients were divided into two groups for analysis. twenty-four patients, who were treated from january 1984 to december 1986, did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration (group a). twenty-three patients, who were treated from january 1987 to august 1989, had spinal fluid drainage (group b); 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery. permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven (29%) group a patients but in only one (4%) group b patient, who did not receive naloxone (p less than 0.03). the first two group b patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia. this significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate (72% in group a, 91% in group b). we conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms. this reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term. the observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia.
the effects of methoxamine and epinephrine on survival and regional distribution of cardiac output in dogs with prolonged ventricular fibrillation this study compares the effects of methoxamine, a pure alpha 1-agonist, and epinephrine on cerebral and myocardial blood flow, central hemodynamics, and survival in a randomized placebo-controlled fashion during prolonged ventricular fibrillation (vf) in a canine model. twenty-four anesthetized and ventilated adult mongrel dogs were instrumented for regional blood flow determinations using radio-labeled microspheres. the dogs were randomized to receive either 20 mg of methoxamine as a single intravenous bolus or repeated boluses of 0.02 mg/kg of epinephrine, 0.2 mg/kg of epinephrine, or normal saline solution placebo beginning at three minutes following induction of vf and initiation of closed chest cardiac massage (cccm). organ blood flow measurements were determined during normal sinus rhythm and after five and 20 minutes of vf. all six dogs receiving methoxamine were successfully resuscitated in contrast to only one in each of the epinephrine-treated groups and none of the dogs receiving placebo (p less than .01). although epinephrine was associated with significantly higher blood pressures than placebo during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr), blood pressures achieved with methoxamine were significantly higher than those observed in the other three treatment groups (p less than .001). cerebral blood flow was significantly higher with both methoxamine and high-dose epinephrine (p less than .05). mean left and right ventricular myocardial flows were highest with methoxamine but this did not achieve statistical significance. in contrast, organ flows measured in the animals receiving the lowest dose of epinephrine were not significantly higher than those associated with placebo. cardiac output after 20 minutes of cpr was significantly lower with high-dose epinephrine than with methoxamine or placebo (p less than .05). our results suggest that methoxamine significantly improves regional cerebral blood flow and survival during cpr and although high-dose epinephrine is associated with comparable improvements in regional cerebral blood flow, this treatment is associated with deterioration in central hemodynamics during prolonged vf and does not enhance survival.
use of the diaphragm to reinforce anastomosis of the intestines. use of a diaphragmatic flap to buttress and help secure persistent intestinal fistula is described. the potential for the use of muscle flaps in the management of recurrent intestinal fistula is presented.
incidence and clinical significance of transient creatine kinase elevations and the diagnosis of non-q wave myocardial infarction associated with coronary angioplasty. to assess the incidence and clinical significance of elevated total plasma creatine kinase (ck) and mb isoenzyme fraction after apparently successful coronary angioplasty, a prospective study of 272 consecutive elective procedures was undertaken. total ck (normal less than 100 iu/liter) and ck mb isoenzyme (normal less than 4%) were measured immediately after successful completion of the procedure and every 6 h for 24 h. all nonelective procedures and results not fulfilling all american heart association/american college of cardiology task force guideline criteria for a successful result were excluded from analysis. of the 272 elective procedures, 249 (92%) were successfully; abnormally elevated ck or ck mb serum levels, or both, were found in 38 (15%) of the successful outcomes. three patterns of abnormal enzymes were identified: 15 patients with ck greater than or equal to 200 iu/liter and ck mb greater than or equal to 5% (group 1), 4 patients with ck greater than or equal to 200 iu/litter and ck mb less than or equal to 4% (group 2) and 19 patients with ck less than 200 iu/liter and ck mb greater than or equal to 5% (group 3). the three groups were distinguishable by the nature of the complications causing the enzyme release (in particular, the etiology and clinical manifestations). there were significantly more clinically apparent events in group 1 than in the other groups (13 of 15 versus 11 of 23, p less than 0.01) and more events associated with persistent electrocardiographic changes (p = 0.05) and chest pain (p less than 0.05). however, no clinically important sequelae were recognizable in any group at hospital discharge. thus, abnormal cardiac serum enzyme release after apparently successful coronary angioplasty is 1) relatively common; 2) has many possible causes, including both minor complications and early reversibility of impending major complications; and 3) results in no permanent clinical sequelae.
vestibular papillae of the vulva. lack of evidence for human papillomavirus etiology. vestibular papillae of the vulva are usually considered as anatomical variants of the vestibular mucosa. clinically, however, they are quite often interpreted as condylomata acuminata and recent studies have suggested that they could be related to human papillomavirus infection. this prompted us to search for human papillomavirus dna using the southern blot hybridization technique, by analyzing biopsy specimens taken from 29 patients who presented with papillae of the vestibular mucosa. human papillomavirus sequences were detected only in two (6.9%) cases. by the same technique, human papillomavirus sequences were detected in 24 (96%) of 25 vulvar warts used as the control specimens. thus, it appears unlikely that vestibular papillae are related to human papillomavirus infection. they are usually distinguishable from condylomata acuminata by clinical examination alone.
bretylium tosylate versus lidocaine in experimental cardiac arrest bretylium tosylate has been shown effective in the treatment of ventricular fibrillation and in the prevention of its recurrence. however, lidocaine is generally preferred because bretylium could have adverse hemodynamic effects related to its antiadrenergic action. to explore further the differences between these two antiarrhythmic agents, the authors compared the effects of bretylium, lidocaine, and saline on a standardized dog model of ventricular fibrillation followed by electromechanical dissociation (emd). the protocol included three successive episodes of cardiac arrest in each animal. three minutes before each episode of ventricular fibrillation, 5 mg/kg of bretylium tosylate (n = 11), 1 mg/kg of lidocaine (n = 9) or saline (n = 12) were administered blindly. there was no difference in the duration of cardiac arrest (bretylium, 8 min 18 sec; lidocaine, 7 min 54 sec; saline, 8 min 20 sec) or the total doses of epinephrine required to resuscitate the animals. both bretylium and lidocaine appeared to preserve cardiac function 5 minutes after recovery, as stroke volume increased from 17.8 +/- 6.7 to 18.7 +/- 6.7 ml (ns) after bretylium and from 17.7 +/- 7.7 to 19.0 +/- 7.0 ml (ns) after lidocaine, but decreased from 19.0 +/- 5.3 to 14.6 +/- 6.0 ml (p less than .05) after saline. during the first 10 minutes of emd, ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia recurred in 4 dogs treated with lidocaine, 3 dogs treated with saline, but no dog treated with bretylium (p less than .05 between bretylium and saline).
combined hepatic and vena caval resection with autogenous caval graft replacement. right-sided and caudate hepatic lobectomy with resection of the retrohepatic vena cava were performed in a 34-year-old woman with recurrent adrenal carcinoma. the vena cava was replaced with a graft constructed from autogenous superficial femoral vein. included herein is a review of the literature detailing the three previously reported cases of combined hepatic and caval resection; to our knowledge, there are no prior reports of the use of an autogenous vein graft in this setting. with surgical and anesthetic techniques, including total vascular exclusion of the liver and venovenous bypass, methods that were developed in large part through experience in liver transplantation, this type of surgery can be performed with a high rate of success.
participation of serotonergic mechanisms in the pathophysiology of experimental neoplastic spinal cord compression. we evaluated the role of serotonin (5-ht) in neoplastic cord compression in paraplegic rats harboring a thoracolumbar epidural tumor. we measured serotonin and its major metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-hiaa), in the c-1 to c-7, t-1 to t-6, t-7 to t-12, and t-13 to l-3 spinal segments of tumor-free and tumor-bearing rats. in normal controls, a consistent rostral-to-caudal gradient for 5-ht and 5-hiaa was evident, but the 5-hiaa/5-ht ratio remained constant. in paralyzed rats, 5-ht levels were unchanged, but the 5-hiaa/5-ht ratio was elevated, especially in the compressed segments. treatment with either dexamethasone or indomethacin delayed onset of paraplegia but had no effect on 5-ht metabolism. blocking 5-ht receptors by cyproheptadine, evaluated 30 hours after onset of paralysis and treatment, resulted in a reduction in the high water content, vascular permeability, and prostaglandin e2 synthesis in the compressed cord. early administration of cyproheptadine effectively delayed the onset of paraplegia. these data indicate that receptor-activated serotonergic mechanisms participate in the disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier and that these effects can be manipulated pharmacologically.
treatment of chronic facial palsy by transplantation of the neurovascularized free rectus abdominis muscle. we performed neurovascularized free rectus abdominis muscle transplantations in two patients with chronic facial palsy. in one patient, the postoperative course was uneventful, but the patient died from rupture of esophageal varices. in the other patient, both morphologic and functional results were satisfactory. therefore, the rectus abdominis muscle is considered to be a suitable donor for muscle transplantation for the treatment of chronic facial palsy. the rectus abdominis muscle is advantageous in that (1) simultaneous operations by two teams are possible with the patient in the supine position, (2) it is supplied by long nerves and long and large vessels, (3) it is flat and consists of segments with appropriate lengths, (4) the force and distance of contraction are appropriate, and (5) the tendinous intersections are suitable for anchoring sutures.
percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty: initial clinical and quantitative angiographic results in 50 patients. the initial clinical experience and quantitative angiographic results of percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty are described for 55 lesions in 50 patients. with use of a xenon chloride (308 nm) excimer laser generator and 1.5 to 1.75 mm catheters, excimer laser angioplasty was attempted at 135 ns pulse width, 25 to 40 hz repetition rate, 2 to 5 s laser delivery time and 30 to 60 mj/mm2 energy fluence. laser success (greater than 20% reduction in absolute percent diameter stenosis) was achieved in 41 (75%) of 55 lesions, with 100% subsequent balloon angioplasty success (less than 50% residual stenosis). by quantitative digital caliper technique, the percent diameter stenosis (mean +/- se) was reduced from 81 +/- 1% to 50 +/- 3% after excimer laser angioplasty (p less than 0.001) and to 20 +/- 1% after balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001); minimal luminal diameter increased from 0.56 +/- 0.04 to 1.46 +/- 0.08 mm (p less than 0.001) and 2.03 +/- 0.07 mm (p less than 0.001), respectively. by videodensitometric techniques, the percent area stenosis decreased from 86 +/- 2% to 54 +/- 3% after excimer angioplasty (p less than 0.001) and to 26 +/- 3% after balloon angioplasty (p less than 0.001). there were no perforations, need for emergency bypass surgery or deaths. the overall incidence of abrupt closure (3.6%), dissection (1.8%), embolization (1.8%), filling defect (6%), myocardial infarction (5.5%), side branch occlusion (3.6%) or spasm (3.6%) was infrequent and more related to subsequent balloon angioplasty than to the laser procedure.
surgical indication and significance of portal vein resection in biliary and pancreatic cancer. tumor and vascular resection was carried out in 27 patients with biliary and pancreatic cancer. vascular resection included resection and reconstruction of the both the portal vein and hepatic artery in two of the patients. portal vein resection only was carried out in 23 patients, and resection of the side wall and plasty of the portal vein was carried out in the other two patients. the technical limit of portal vein resection without graft was 4 cm in the hepatic hilus and 7 cm after total pancreatectomy or pancreatoduodenectomy without grafts. on temporary occlusion of the portal vein between resection and reconstruction, simple occlusion was sufficient if it occurred within 30 minutes. in occlusion of more than 30 minutes, simultaneous occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery is better to prevent congestion of the intestine. if occlusion of more than 60 minutes is anticipated, a bypass between the superior mesenteric vein and the femoral vein with anthron tube is recommended. the postoperative course was uneventful in 20 of the 27 patients. two patients died within 1 month after surgery. the mortality rate for this aggressive surgery was 8.4%. minor complications such as hydrothorax, small bile leakage, and localized abscess were observed but soon subsided in five patients. fourteen of 27 patients survived or are alive after more than 1 year, and 9 of 14 patients survived or are alive after 2 years. forty-seven percent of the patients who had no lymph node metastasis or peritumor lymph node metastasis without cancerous invasion of the portal vein intima survived more than 2 years. the longest length of survival of a patient with nonfunctioning islet cell carcinoma of the pancreatic head was 5 years 9 months. the longest surviving patient with ductal cell carcinoma of the pancreas is still living after 4 years. this approach is recommended in certain patients with vascular involvement but without lymph node metastasis or those patients with only peritumor lymph node involvement. frozen section of mesenteric and paraaortic nodes should be standard practice before this aggressive resection.
gallstone clearance: a randomized study of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and chemical dissolution following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy it is not known whether gallstone fragments are cleared from the gallbladder without the use of oral dissolution therapy. to assess the efficacy of lithotripsy and dissolution therapy, alone or in combination, 35 patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups: lithotripsy alone, dissolution therapy alone or combined lithotripsy and dissolution therapy. all patients had symptomatic gallstones, functioning gallbladders and comparable stone profiles. lithotripsy was administered using a piezoelectric lithotripter. dissolution therapy consisted of combined bile acid and terpene. clearance was assessed at 6 months using ultrasound and oral cholecystography. patients with less than 50 per cent stone clearance at the end of 6 months were considered failures. the number of patients with total or partial clearance in the combined group (7/10) was significantly greater than those in the lithotripsy alone group (0/10, p less than 0.002). gallstone clearance following lithotripsy appears to be dependent upon dissolution therapy.
treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal. progress in the prognosis of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal has followed the use of multimodality therapy. from 1977 to 1985, 42 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal were treated with mitomycin c (15 mg/m2) and 5-fluorouracil (750 mg/m2) on day 1, 5-fu (750 mg/m2/d) alone on days 2 to 5, and radiation therapy (3000 cgy) on days 7 to 28. they were evaluated 4 to 6 weeks after completion of the chemotherapy/radiation therapy protocol and received local excision, abdominoperineal resection, or both. patient follow-up times ranged from 7 to 161 months, with a mean follow-up time of 71 months. pathologic examination showed no residual carcinoma in 19 (45%) patients. the authors could not predict, based on clinical evaluation, which patients would have a complete response. of the patients with a complete clinical response, 44% had tumor in the pathology specimen. wide local excision was the most common initial operation (23 of 42 patients; 55%), with five of these patients subsequently requiring abdominoperineal resection. anal continence was retained in 18 of 42 (43%) patients. eleven patients experienced recurrent disease: six local recurrences, one distant, and four both local and distant. the 5-year overall survival rate was 82% and the 5-year disease-specific survival rate was 87%. there were no treatment related deaths. preoperative tumor size was the only factor significantly related to survival. contrary to other reports, tumor in the pathology specimen did not adversely affect long-term survival. hence, patients should be treated after chemotherapy/radiation therapy with surgical therapy sufficient to control local disease.
chordoma: a 20-year clinicopathologic review of the experience at groote schuur hospital, cape town. eighteen chordomas (11 females and 7 males) were seen over a 20-year period; 61% of the tumors occurred in the sphenoid region. the youngest patient was 3 years old and had a family history of chordoma. histologically, the tumors were divided into classical (epithelial) and chondroid variants, which in this series, had no effect on outcome. follow-up on 12 patients ranged from 3 to 170 months, and they were treated with various combinations of surgery and radiotherapy. one patient was administered the neutron beam and died after 94 months. the mean survival of this series is 73.4 months, with a survival rate of 50% (6 out of 12 patients alive). surgical resection offers the best chance of survival, but chordomas have a propensity to metastasize, hence have a poor prognosis.
characterization of astrocytomas, meningiomas, and pituitary adenomas by phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy. phosphorus magnetic resonance (mr) spectroscopy allows noninvasive measurement of phosphate-containing compounds and ph within brain cells. the authors obtained localized phosphorus mr spectra from 10 normal brains, four low-grade astrocytomas, six glioblastomas, four meningiomas, and three pituitary adenomas and found differences in the spectra of each tumor type. compared to normal brain, the spectra from low-grade astrocytomas showed a significant reduction of the phosphodiester (pde) peak. glioblastomas were characterized by a significant reduction of the pde peak, elevation of the phosphomonoester (pme) peak, and a relatively alkaline intracellular ph. the spectra from meningiomas and pituitary adenomas were markedly different from the glial tumors. meningiomas showed significant reductions in phosphocreatine, pde, and inorganic phosphate, as well as a relatively alkaline ph. pituitary adenomas resembled meningiomas, but had a much higher pme peak. although the number of tumors studied was small, there appears to be a characteristic spectrum associated with these different tumor types. the present findings can be useful in the preoperative identification of these tumors and in furthering understanding of their growth and metabolism in vivo.
effect of closing dead space on incidence of seroma after mastectomy. seromas are a significant cause of morbidity after modified radical mastectomy. the effect of closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal (48 hours postoperatively) of closed suction drains on formation of the seroma was evaluated prospectively in 37 patients. thirty-three underwent modified radical mastectomy for invasive carcinoma while four underwent total mastectomy with a level 1 axillary dissection for multifocal intraductal carcinoma. seromas occurred in three, all were minor, two required one aspiration only and one required two aspirations. two were seromas of the lower flap while one was an axillary seroma. except for one patient who had a wound hematoma develop, no other instances of morbidity were noted. closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal of closed suction drains is associated with a low incidence of seroma formation after mastectomy. use of this technique has important economic and clinical implications for patients who had mastectomy.
reoperation for myocardial revascularization using the internal mammary artery. from october 1984 up to february 1989, 40 patients had "redo" myocardial revascularizations using one or both internal mammary arteries (ima) in over 1000 cases operated upon in our department for coronary bypass grafts. thirty-one patients had a further operation for unstable angina difficult to control with drugs. mean interval of recurrence of angina after previous surgery was 48.5 months for all the cases, but the mean interval before the second bypass operation was 68 months. severe disease of previous vein grafts was the reason for surgery in 25 patients and progressive atherosclerosis in native coronary arteries in 15 patients. twenty-one patients had a single mammary artery; both mammary arteries were used in 19. two cases had endarterectomy on left anterior descending (lad). four patients had peroperative acute myocardial infarction (ami), 3 a low cardiac output syndrome, postoperative bleeding occurred in 3 cases and wound infection in one case. an intraaortic balloon pump was used preoperatively in one case and coming off bypass in two others. one patient died on the second day postoperatively from cardiac arrest following bilateral pneumothorax. there were no late deaths. at a mean follow-up of 20.5 months, 28 patients are free of symptoms but 11 are complaining of angina, 5 during exercise and 6 at rest. an exercise test was positive in 8 patients.
frequency of myocardial indium-111 antimyosin uptake after uncomplicated coronary artery bypass grafting. the reported incidence of myocardial damage after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) is highly related to the methods used. since indium-111 monoclonal antimyosin antibody scintigraphy has been shown to be highly specific and sensitive for myocardial necrosis, even in small lesions, uptake of this radiotracer was evaluated after cabg. in 23 consecutive patients without previous myocardial infarction who underwent cabg for stable angina, 80 mbq indium-111 antimyosin was injected on the third postoperative day. planar images were obtained 48 hours later and analyzed for myocardial uptake of indium-111 antimyosin. scintigraphic results were related to creatine kinase mb levels, duration of both aortic cross-clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass, and electrocardiographic changes. in all patients surgical procedure and postoperative course was uncomplicated. indium-111 antimyosin uptake was present in 19 of 23 patients (82%). it was diffused in 7 patients and localized in 12. no pathologic q waves occurred postoperatively. fourteen patients exhibited st-segment changes. no good relation was found among indium-111 antimyosin uptake and creatine kinase mb levels, duration of cross-clamping or bypass, and st-t changes. it is concluded that some degree of myocardial damage, though silent, is common after cabg.
cerebral infarction and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage. platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate and the release of thromboxane b2 were studied in 68 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage during the second week after the hemorrhage, when delayed ischemic deterioration most often occurs. follow-up computed tomographic scans were performed later than 1 month after subarachnoid hemorrhage to reveal permanent hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction. occurrence of hypodense lesions on the follow-up computed tomographic scan was significantly associated with the presence of delayed ischemic deterioration (did) (p less than 0.01). patients with subcortical or cortical cerebral infarctions due to did released more platelet thromboxane b2 than those with no evidence of a hypodense lesion on the computed tomographic scan (p less than 0.05). hypodense areas caused by an intracerebral hematoma or small, deep-seated infarcts due to did were not associated with significantly elevated release of thromboxane b2, but the lacunar type infarcts were associated with increased aggregation of platelets. the results suggest that augmented platelet function may be involved in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction due to did.
acute lead poisoning in nursing home and psychiatric patients from the ingestion of lead-based ceramic glazes. to our knowledge, acute inorganic lead poisoning from single ingestions of lead compounds has been only rarely reported. during a 14-month period, we were contacted regarding eight instances of acute ingestions of liquid lead-based ceramic glazes by mentally impaired residents of nursing homes or psychiatric facilities participating in ceramic arts programs. while some ingestions did not cause toxic effects, some patients developed acute lead poisoning characterized by abdominal pain, anemia, and basophilic stippling of red blood cells. in the blood of several patients, lead concentrations were far above normal (4 to 9.5 mumol/l). urinary lead excretions were tremendously elevated during chelation therapy, with one patient excreting 535.9 mumol/l of lead during a 6-day period, the largest lead excretion ever reported in a patient suffering from acute lead poisoning, to our knowledge. all patients recovered following supportive care and appropriate use of chelating agents. lead-based glazes are commonly found in nursing homes and psychiatric facilities. we suspect that acute or chronic lead poisoning from the ingestion(s) of lead-based ceramic glazes may be an unrecognized but not uncommon problem among such residents. we urge physicians to take ingestions of lead-based glazes seriously and to consider the diagnosis of lead poisoning in nursing home and psychiatric patients who have participated in ceramic crafts programs.
ventriculoperitoneal shunt malfunction during pregnancy. many women with cerebrospinal fluid shunts are now reaching reproductive age. shunt malfunction may occur during pregnancy, and management requires a well-planned, combined neurosurgical and obstetrical approach. we present a case of ventriculoperitoneal shunt obstruction manifesting during the third trimester managed successfully in a conservative fashion. the literature on ventriculoperitoneal shunt malfunction during pregnancy is reviewed.
myocardial preservation using lidocaine blood cardioplegia. prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization. patients were similar with respect to age, ventricular function, severity of coronary artery disease, cross-clamp time, completeness of revascularization, frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting, systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal, and mean infusate volume and temperature. patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia (group 1, 23 patients) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (22% versus 74%; p less than 0.0005) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart (0.5 +/- 1.3 versus 1.9 +/- 0.97; p less than 0.0005) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls (group 2, 23 patients). there were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release, hemodynamic measurements, or clinical outcome. patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation (9% versus 26%). ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups. we conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping.
the freckle sign--an endoscopic feature of the cecum. mucosal spots, or "freckles," surrounding the appendiceal orifice are an endoscopic feature of the cecum. these are clusters of 1 to 2 mm round or oval slightly raised spots, each with a pale center and an erythematous border. they correlate microscopically with subepithelial and submucosal lymphoid follicles. the freckling pattern, identified in about one third of colonoscopies, was seen best with the videoendoscope and was identified more commonly in patients with systemic illness. recognition of mucosal freckling around the appendiceal orifice helps identify the cecum and may be useful in the evaluation of cecal and appendiceal pathology.
coronary bypass surgery: is the operation different today? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years. to document this change, we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 (n = 1586) and 1987 (n = 1513) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass. between 1981 and 1987, patients were found to be older (greater than or equal to 70 years, 8.7% versus 21.8%, p less than 0.0001), more often diabetic (15% versus 24%, p less than 0.0001), have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease (14.5% versus 46.1%, p less than 0.0001), and have more left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 0.60 +/- 14 versus 0.54 +/- 13, p less than 0.0001). to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups, we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987: subgroup i, no prior procedure (n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987); subgroup ii, optimal group (n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987, and defined as no prior procedure, ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years); subgroup iii, patients having reoperations (n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987). internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1% in 1987. major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly: need for intraaortic balloon pumping, 1.4% versus 4.7%, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction 3.5% versus 5.5%, p less than 0.008; stroke, 1.4% versus 2.8%, p less than 0.008; and wound infection, 1.0% versus 3.0%, p less than 0.001. wound infection (all types) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction (0.7% versus 5%, p less than 0.0001). for young patients with good left ventricular function (subgroup ii), there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987. hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2% to 3.1% (p less than 0.0002), respectively. it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition (subgroup ii) in both years, 0.8% versus 1.1%, and highest for reoperative patients, 5.3% versus 4.3%. in 1981, 58% of patients (503/870) were in the optimal group compared with 35% (292/828) in 1987 (p less than 0.0001). the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older, sicker patients who have more complex disease, with a significant reduction in the best candidate group.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
the headache-specific locus of control scale: adaptation to recurrent headaches. this paper describes the development, psychometric properties, and construct and incremental validity of a headache-specific locus of control scale (hslc). the hslc is a 33 item scale designed specifically for recurrent headache sufferers. it assesses the individual's perceptions that headache problems and headache relief are determined primarily by: the individual's behavior (internal factors), health care professionals, or chance factors. the psychometric properties of the hslc were satisfactory. among our findings were that: (1) the belief that headache problems and relief are determined by chance factors was associated with higher levels of depression, physical complaints, reliance on maladaptive pain coping strategies (p less than .001), and greater headache-related disability (p less than .01); (2) the belief that headache problems and relief are influenced primarily by the ministrations of health care professionals was associated with higher levels of medication use (p less than .01) and preference for medical treatment (p less than .001); and (3) the belief that headache problems are determined by the individual's responses and behaviors was associated with a preference for self-regulation treatment (p less than .01). these findings suggest adaptation to headache problems is influenced not only by the frequency and severity of the headache episodes, but by locus of control beliefs. the assessment of locus of control beliefs may provide useful information not typically obtained from standard medical evaluations.
renal scintigraphy in the diagnosis and surgical management of a patient with caliceal colic: a case report. a patient with persistent renal colic and a caliceal stone is presented. furosemide renography, commonly used to differentiate functional stasis from mechanical obstruction of an entire kidney or duplicated collecting system, can make this determination at the caliceal level. as in this case such determination can affect clinical management of the patient.
vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension: a case report. a case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported. preoperatively, the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope. after total removal of the vagal tumor, her systemic blood pressure returned to normal.
effect of beta-adrenergic blocking agents on the circadian occurrence of ischemic cardiovascular events. clinical observations suggest that beta-adrenergic blocking agents can modify the circadian occurrence of a variety of ischemic events. morning awakening is associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure and pulse, serum catecholamine content and platelet activation, at a time of decreased blood thrombolytic activity. beta-adrenergic blocking agents have the potential to modify many of these events. current data indicate that these agents modify blood pressure and pulse, but do not prevent their early morning increase. in addition, beta-adrenergic blocking agents decrease ventricular ectopy and its circadian variation. recent studies in humans indicate, however, that metoprolol does not affect the circadian increase in platelet activity or serum catecholamines. the specific mechanism by which beta blockers affect the circadian occurrence of ischemic events remains uncertain.
time course and prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms after a first acute myocardial infarction. the prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms recorded during the first 3 days (period 1), in the second week (period 2) after a first acute myocardial infarction (ami) and 6 months later (period 3) was prospectively assessed in 190 patients. no patients were treated with thrombolytic therapy. patients with conduction disturbances were excluded. mean age of the 190 patients was 57 years (range 34 to 74) and mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 40 + 6% (range 12 to 70). eighty-four patients had an anterior wall ami and the remaining 106 patients an inferior wall ami. after a mean follow-up of 24 months, 16 patients developed sustained symptomatic monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, 7 patients were resuscitated from an episode of ventricular fibrillation, and 10 patients died suddenly. multivariate regression analysis using continuous variables showed that the strongest predictor of sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was the left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.0001) followed by the duration of qrs complex on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram recorded during the first 3 days of ami (p less than 0.0005). sudden death was only predicted by left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.02).
doppler echocardiographic assessment of the st. jude medical prosthetic valve in the aortic position using the continuity equation. to test whether the continuity equation can be applied to the noninvasive assessment of prosthetic aortic valve function, doppler echocardiography was performed in 67 patients (mean age, 58 +/- 14 years) within 10 +/- 6 days after valve replacement with st. jude medical valves. all patients were clinically stable and without evidence of valve dysfunction. valve size ranged from 19 to 31 mm, and ejection fraction ranged from 30% to 75%. with the parasternal long-axis view, the left ventricular outflow diameter measured just proximal to the prosthetic valve correlated well with valve size (r = 0.92). doppler-derived maximal gradients ranged from 9 to 71 mm hg. effective prosthetic aortic valve area by the continuity equation ranged between 0.73 cm2 for a 19-mm valve and 4.23 cm2 for a 31-mm valve. with analysis of variance, effective orifice area differentiated various valve sizes (p less than 10(-14)) better than did gradients alone (p = 0.003) and correlated better with actual valve orifice area (r = 0.83 versus - 0.40). a doppler velocity index, the ratio of peak velocity in the left ventricular outflow to that of the aortic jet, averaged 0.41 +/- 0.09 and was less dependent on valve size (r = 0.43). thus, the continuity equation can be applied to the assessment of prosthetic st. jude valves in the aortic position. by accounting for flow through the valve, it provides an improved assessment over the sole use of gradients in the evaluation of prosthetic valve function.
aids-associated polyclonal lymphoma: identification of a new hiv-associated disease process. high-grade non-hodgkins b-cell lymphoma is one of the principle malignancies that occurs in individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv-1). immunoblastic lymphomas that arise in immunosuppressed transplant patients have been described as both monoclonal and polyclonal, and occur in association with epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection. to test whether polyclonal lymphoma occurred in patients with aids we studied tumors from multiple sites in three patients who died with widespread aids-associated large cell or large cell immunoblastic lymphoma. all biopsy specimens contained invasive lymphoma. tumor cells were mature igm-positive immunoblasts by immunohistochemical analysis, with the same b-cell phenotype observed in all tumor sites. only a minority of sites from all patients analyzed were monoclonal as measured by immunoglobulin gene rearrangements, with one case having several foci of monoclonal disease with other histologically identical metastases showing no evidence of monoclonal proliferation. similar to the transplant-associated polyclonal b-cell proliferations. ebv gene sequences were present in multiple sites from one autopsy. in the other two autopsies, polyclonal b-cell proliferations occurred in the absence of ebv involvement except at one site, where a minor clone of ebv-infected cells was found. in contrast to hiv-associated burkitt's lymphoma, no c-myc rearrangements were found at any site. these studies describe the occurrence of polyclonal lymphoma in aids and suggest that ebv-negative polyclonal lymphoma may be a distinct disease entity unique to hiv-infected individuals.
comparison of labetalol versus enalapril as monotherapy in elderly patients with hypertension: results of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. purpose: this study compared the safety and efficacy of labetalol and enalapril as antihypertensive therapy for elderly patients. patients and methods: a randomized, open-label, parallel controlled trial was conducted. after completing a 4-week placebo phase, 79 elderly (65 years or older) patients with an average standing diastolic blood pressure (bp) 95 mm hg or above and 114 mm hg or less were randomized to receive a 12-week course of either labetalol or enalapril in an open-label design. the patients' bp and heart rate were evaluated biweekly by trained observers unaware of the treatment status, and drug dosage was titrated (up to 400 mg twice a day of labetalol or 40 mg daily of enalapril) to achieve a standing diastolic bp of less than 90 mm hg and a decrease of 10 mm hg from baseline. patients underwent 24-hour ambulatory bp monitoring (abpm) at the end of the placebo phase and again after 8 weeks of active treatment. results: the treatment groups were comparable in their reduction of supine diastolic bp, with no significant differences between the two treatments. labetalol demonstrated a significantly greater reduction (p less than 0.05) in standing diastolic bp at the end of the titration period compared to enalapril, but this difference was not significant by the end of the study period. based on 24-hour abpm readings, labetalol reduced mean 24-hour diastolic bp (p less than 0.05) and mean heart rate (p less than 0.05) more than enalapril. the labetalol-treated patients were significantly less often above their diastolic bp goal throughout the 24-hour abpm period (p less than 0.01). the two treatments were equally well tolerated. conclusions: the results indicate that labetalol and enalapril are equally effective in lowering supine diastolic bp in the elderly, but labetalol is more effective in lowering ambulatory bp and heart rate throughout the day.
evaluating hematuria in children. where to start and how to proceed. bleeding from somewhere along the urinary tract is not unusual in children. of the many causes, systemic infection and trauma are among the most common. history taking and physical examination should be careful and complete, because the results obtained help direct the laboratory evaluation. diagnostic testing always begins with urinalysis but may progress to intravenous urography, voiding cystourethrography, endoscopic procedures in the upper and lower urinary tract, sonography, arteriography, or renal biopsy. some cases remain unexplained and require follow-up to assess renal function.
experience with photocoagulation in behcet's disease. between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet's disease. of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined, 38 eyes (6.8%) in 33 patients (11%) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion, branch retinal vein occlusion, or retinal or disc neovascularization. these eyes were treated by photocoagulation, primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma, as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion. the treatment, which was well tolerated, was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization. disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases, and partially in others.
effects of aging on the swallowing mechanism. normal swallow involves a number of closely coordinated neuromuscular events. investigators have identified some small temporal changes in the swallow of older adults as compared with young adults. further research is needed to define completely the primary effects of aging on deglutition. many medical conditions that commonly affect the elderly can cause dysphagia. these are discussed in terms of their effects on swallow physiology. diagnosis and treatment of dysphagia in the elderly should be pursued as aggressively as in the younger adult.
neurologic assessment. neurologic nursing assessment requires the knowledge of anatomic and physiologic principles as well as the mastery of complex assessment skills. the nurse who is often the first and most consistent health team member interacting with clients may provide the key to the early recognition, prevention, and treatment of neurologic problems. the nurse, as the dynamic member of the health team, may then be the first line of defense in initiating cost-effective and perhaps life-saving measures in neurologically impaired clients.
bronchial anomaly of the right upper lobe. this case report presents a rare anomaly of right upper lobe bronchial anatomy. during routine right upper lobe resection for carcinoma, a common right upper and middle lobe bronchus was found. the resection was completed as a right upper and middle bilobectomy. knowledge of this uncommon variant was beneficial in performing the pulmonary resection. a review of the literature is presented.
therapeutic cardiac catheterization in children cardiac catheterization, once the mainstay of diagnosis in children with congenital heart disease, has become a therapeutic modality for many conditions. balloon dilatation can now open stenotic valves and vessels, coils and umbrellas can now close unwanted communications, and emboli can be withdrawn without surgical intervention.
recovery from vegetative state of six months' duration associated with sinemet (levodopa/carbidopa). certain pharmacologic interventions may improve outcome for brain injury in animals and humans. medications affecting the dopaminergic pathway appear to be important. we present the case of a 24-year-old man with traumatic brain injury who remained unresponsive to commands and unchanged for six months despite periodic aggressive therapy. within days of beginning sinemet (levodopa/carbidopa), the patient became conversant and responsive. the reported low likelihood of spontaneous recovery of cognition in patients who are vegetative for six months suggests that sinemet was responsible for this patient's recovery. in this case, the relatively small risk of side effects from sinemet was greatly outweighed by the change in functional outcome.
the significance of low-grade prostate cancer on needle biopsy. a radical prostatectomy study of tumor grade, volume, and stage of the biopsied and multifocal tumor. twenty-one cases showing only low gleason grade prostate carcinoma on needle biopsy were identified. in 15 cases radical prostatectomy was performed with the entire prostate embedded for thorough evaluation of grade, volume, and stage of tumor at the needle biopsy site as well as of multifocal tumor. eight specimens had solitary low grade and low volume tumor, with only one of these cases showing minimal capsular penetration and the others confined to the prostate. four cases had low-grade tumor at the biopsy site, yet multifocal higher grade tumor. all of these tumor nodules were low volume and confined to the prostate. in three cases there was both low-grade and high-grade tumor in the nodule sampled by needle biopsy. in two of these cases the tumor was large and in the third it was small but mostly higher grade, with two of these cases showing capsular penetration. although transrectal ultrasound and repeat needle biopsy would most likely have identified either the tumors' large size or high-grade component in these latter three cases, it is unlikely that these techniques would have identified the cases of multifocal higher grade tumor because of their relatively small size. furthermore, preoperative serum prostate specific antigen levels and clinical stage failed to distinguish those cases with higher grade tumor. because of the difficulty in identifying these areas of high-grade tumor preoperatively, it is uncertain whether expectant therapy could be recommended even for patients with very low-grade cancer on needle biopsy.
lymph nodes in incipient adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma with hodgkin's disease-like histologic features. lymph nodes were examined from four patients with incipient adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma (atll) who had mild lymphadenopathy, fatigue, no or a few atypical lymphocytes in their peripheral blood, and integrated proviral human t-cell lymphotrophic virus type i (htlv-i) dna in the nodes. the htlv-i dna was detected by southern blot analysis and/or polymerase chain reaction in the lymph nodes of all cases. the nodal architecture was preserved. some scattered or aggregated highly lobular, cerebriform, or reed-sternberg-like giant cells were observed, with occasional mitoses and diffuse infiltration of small to medium-sized lymphocytes, with no or minimal nuclear abnormalities in the enlarged paracortex. the giant cells were usually positive for ki-1 and also for uchl-1 and other t-cell markers but negative for ber-h2. rearrangement and/or deletion of t-cell receptors were found in three of four patients. all patients died within 2 years, with transformation to overt leukemia-lymphoma occurring in three patients, and pulmonary carcinoma in one. the incipient or prelymphomatous phase of atll should be differentiated from hodgkin's disease because of the distinctly different prognoses of these two diseases.
long-term (5 to 20 years) evolution of nongrafted aplastic anemias. the cooperative group for the study of aplastic and refractory anemias. in the presence of aplastic anemia (aa), therapeutic choices should be determined while taking into account not only changes for immediate improvement, but also both the risks for late-occurring complications and the following quality of life. we report here data concerning a long-term clinical survey (5 to 18 years with a median of 12 years) including 156 nongrafted patients receiving androgen therapy; all patients were alive more than 5 years after diagnosis (40% of patients included at time of diagnosis in our multicentric analysis). between the 5th and the 13th year follow-up, 21 patients died of various causes either related to aa or to its treatment: 12 of infection or hemorrhage secondary to pancytopenia (6 relapses and 6 that had never been improved; 2 with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria [pnh]); 5 of leukemia; 1 of a non-hodgkin's lymphoma; 2 of late side effects following transfusion (1 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 1 chronic b hepatitis); and a single case of myocardial infarction (the latter could possibly result of androgen therapy). thirteen patients in total developed pnh (among which 10 had clinical symptoms including 2 deaths, and 3 exhibited only biologic abnormalities). few long-term side effects of androgens could be noticed. adult height was normal in patients treated during childhood and so was young women's fertility. no malignant hepatoma occurred. this survey allows the recording of late spontaneous hematologic improvement (between 5 and 10 years of evolution). this occurred in 50% of patients that had remained cytopenic 5 years after diagnosis. although bone marrow stem cell concentration remained abnormal after 10 years of evolution. 85% of patients had a normal red blood cell count, 80% a normal polymorphonuclear count, and 66% a normal platelet count. all patients who did not show late complications had an excellent quality of life.
causes, diagnosis, and treatment of pharyngitis. pharyngitis is a common disease of the respiratory tract that can be caused by several different viruses and bacterial organisms. clinically speaking, the most important causative agent is group a streptococcus (streptococcus pyogenes). although rare, postpharyngitis complications arise as a result of disease caused almost exclusively by group a streptococcus. because group a streptococcal pharyngitis usually responds well to antimicrobial treatment, it is important to diagnose it. penicillin, erythromycin, and peroral first-generation cephalosporins have been documented to be effective. in addition to group a streptococcus, c. pneumoniae and m. pneumoniae have also been detected in patients with pharyngitis. the possibility of diagnosing these organisms is limited at the present. clinical surveys are still needed, moreover, to evaluate the effect of antimicrobial treatment on the disease caused by these organisms. although routine viral diagnostic methods do not help primary care physicians in treating patients with pharyngitis, information on bacteria and viruses in the immediate environment could prove to be of great help in daily clinical work.
the influence of drug interval on the effect of methotrexate and fluorouracil in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer the importance of the interval between methotrexate (mtx) and fluorouracil (5-fu) was studied in 168 patients with previously untreated, measurable, advanced colorectal cancer. they were randomized to receive mtx 200 mg/m2, followed by 5-fu 600 mg/m2 either 24 hours (arm a) or 1 hour (arm b) after mtx. all patients received leucovorin (lv) 24 hours after mtx, 10 mg/m2 orally every 6 hours for six doses. the regimen was repeated every 2 weeks, with 5-fu escalation as tolerated. arm a was significantly better than arm b with respect to overall response rate (29% v 14.5%, p = .026), time to progression (ttp; median, 9.9 months v 5.9 months, p = .009), and survival (median, 15.3 months v 11.4 months, p = .003). significant differences between arms were not found in response rate, median ttp, or median survival for the subgroup of patients with rectal primaries who comprised 20% of the patients in each arm. significant factors prognostic for survival were performance status and number of metastases, as well as treatment. age did not influence survival. toxicity was similar in both arms and was primarily gastrointestinal. more mucositis was seen in arm a. there were four toxic deaths secondary to neutropenia and infection (one from arm a and three from arm b) and three other deaths (two from arm a and one from arm b) that were possibly drug-related. the combination of mtx with lv rescue and 5-fu is an active regimen in advanced colorectal cancer; its efficacy is increased in colon, but not rectal cancer, when the interval between mtx and 5-fu is long (24 hours) rather than short (1 hour).
medical treatment of esophageal achalasia. double-blind crossover study with oral nifedipine, verapamil, and placebo calcium channel blockers have been previously shown to decrease lower esophageal sphincter (les) pressure and improve symptoms in achalasia. we performed a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study to assess the effects of oral nifedipine and verapamil on les pressure, amplitude of esophageal body contraction, and clinical symptomatology in eight patients with symptomatic achalasia diagnosed by endoscopy, barium swallow, and manometry. patients were randomized to receive up to 20 mg nifedipine, 160 mg verapamil, or placebo and underwent esophageal manometry before (baseline) and after four weeks on each drug. diary cards were kept to record and grade symptoms and drug plasma level determinations were correlated with manometric and clinical findings. both nifedipine and verapamil caused a statistically significant decrease in mean les pressure, but only nifedipine caused a significant decrease in the amplitude of contractions of the smooth muscle portion of the esophagus. no statistically significant differences in the overall clinical symptomatology were noted with any of the drugs, although some individual improvements in dysphagia and chest pain were noted. we conclude that, despite the reduction in les pressure and contraction amplitude of the distal esophageal body, oral nifedipine and verapamil do not significantly alter the clinical symptomatology of patients with achalasia.
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer. the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma. the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively. thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer. clinically, 33 patients had a polymyopathy, of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy (two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome, one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production). cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer. ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology; 74 had type ii atrophy, 12 had type i and ii atrophy, one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis. the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications. atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms, ageing, clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour, and was statistically different from that seen in controls. qualitatively, the presence of weight loss, muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy. similarly, necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour, the presence of metastases, ageing, weight loss, muscle wasting, duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy. this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit, including atrophy, a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome. clinical assessment does not accurately assess the 'remote' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit.
reference values for the mini-mental state examination (mmse) in octo- and nonagenarians the mini-mental state examination (mmse) was used in a population survey of all inhabitants of leiden, the netherlands, over 85 years (n = 1258). in this paper we report on 532 subjects without neurological or psychiatric disease. results show that the median score and lowest quartile cut-off score remain high until the tenth decade (median score = 28, lowest quartile cut-off score = 26). thus age, in itself, is not a major limitation in using the mmse. in this study a comparatively low level of education (the majority had 6 to 7 years of education) did not affect the results on the mmse in a negative way, nor did we find an association with the use of psychoactive drugs.
active vs passive rhythms as an explanation of bigeminal rhythm with similar p waves. we describe the criteria for differential diagnosis between 3:2 sinoatrial block from atrial bigeminy due to an ectopic focus in the sinus or parasinus zone. in the 3:2 sinoatrial block the rr interval of the basic rhythm is similar to the short r-r interval of the paired rhythm. in atrial bigeminy, the r-r interval of the basic rhythm is similar to the long r-r interval of the paired rhythm.
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection. a review of 77 patients. through a retrospective review, we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection. patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation: 20 had focal pulmonary disease (group 1), 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease (group 2), 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis (group 3), 9 had meningitis (group 4), 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement (group 5), and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection (group 6). coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83% of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed. sera from 39% of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74% had cf antibodies. eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease (group 1 or 2). serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar, with 26% positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79% positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies. for the 77 patients in this study, the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10(9) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed, and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality (p less than 0.01). at the time of follow-up, 32 of the 77 patients (42%) had died. there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease (group 2) than in other groups (p less than 0.001). amphotericin b, ketoconazole, fluconazole, and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies. outcome could not be related to the therapy used. of note, 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions.
flosequinan: a vasodilator with positive inotropic activity. flosequinan is an oral arterial and venous vasodilator that is currently under investigation for the treatment of congestive heart failure. the effects of flosequinan on ventricular performance and myocardial contractility were studied in 10 patients with severe congestive heart failure during right and left cardiac catheterization. sixty minutes after a 100 mg oral dose of flosequinan, the peak rate of rise in left ventricular pressure (dp/dt) increased from 940 +/- 180 to 1050 +/- 240 mm hg/sec (p less than 0.05), while left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 32 +/- 5 to 26 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than 0.05), and cardiac index increased (2.1 +/- 0.4 to 2.3 +/- 0.5 l/min/m2, (p less than 0.05). the mean pulmonary artery pressure and vascular resistance decreased from 40 +/- 8 to 33 +/- 12 mm hg (p less than 0.05) and from 330 +/- 240 to 290 +/- 170 dyne-sec/cm5 (p less than 0.05), respectively. heart rate, mean aortic pressure, right atrial pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and serum norepinephrine levels did not change significantly. the increase in left ventricular peak dp/dt that was concomitant with a decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and no change in systemic arterial pressure or sympathetic tone, argue for a direct positive inotropic effect of flosequinan.
onset phase of spinal bupivacaine analgesia assessed quantitatively by laser stimulation. analgesia was assessed quantitatively at various dermatomes (c7, t8, t10, t12, l1, l3, s1) for the first 30 min after subarachnoid administration of 0.5% bupivacaine 3.5 ml. stimulation with 10 needles and laser stimulation could evoke pain in dermatomes with adequate analgesia to single needle stimulation. analgesia was assessed by thresholds (sensory and pain) and by pain-related brain potentials (amplitude and latency) to laser stimulation. little analgesia was found at t10, but it increased gradually towards caudal segments. the dermatome related to the site of the injection (l3) was not blocked to a greater extent than the surrounding dermatomes. conduction time (the latency of the evoked brain potential) was increased relatively more from the s1 dermatome compared with l1.
interpleural analgesia after thoracotomy. we examined the effects of the following variables on interpleural analgesia after thoracotomy: addition of epinephrine to local anesthetic, thoracostomy drainage, two-catheter placement, and location of catheter tips. twenty patients were randomized to have one catheter (paravertebral tip location) or two catheters (paravertebral and lateral thoracic wall tip locations). interpleural catheters were sutured to the parietal pleura by the surgeon at time of wound closure. patients were then randomly assigned to receive 20 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine through the single catheter or 10 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine with or without 1:200,000 epinephrine through each of the two catheters while supine. bupivacaine concentrations in whole blood and in thoracostomy drainage fluid were assayed by gas chromatography. actual content of bupivacaine in the drainage fluid was calculated. degree of analgesia was assessed by verbal numerical pain scores over the first 4 h and opioid demand thereafter. addition of epinephrine to bupivacaine did not influence the degree of analgesia. approximately 30%-40% of any administered dose of bupivacaine was lost via the thoracostomy tube over a 4-h period. there was no correlation between the true initial dose (100 mg minus thoracostomy drainage) and cmax. use of two catheters resulted in significantly less opioid requirements after an initial 8-h period. failure to achieve adequate interpleural analgesia in postthoracotomy patients may be related to loss of anesthetic via thoracostomy drainage, presence of extravasated blood and tissue fluid in the pleural space, and possibly sequestration and channeling of flow of local anesthetic by restricted motion of an operated lung.
endocarditis due to ampicillin-resistant nontyphoid salmonella: cure with a third-generation cephalosporin. a case of ampicillin-resistant salmonella bacteremia complicated by endocarditis in a 78-year-old man is presented. previous rheumatic valvular heart disease and the lack of response to initial treatment with chloramphenicol prompted us to consider this diagnosis. there was a good clinical response after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and corresponding improvement on the echocardiogram. this case demonstrates the possible endovascular complications of salmonella bacteremia in elderly people and that endocarditis should be included among the invasive infections due to ampicillin-resistant salmonella that could potentially be treated with the newer cephalosporins.
hypertension after operative correction of club-foot deformity. severe hypertension occurred as a postoperative complication after correction of a club-foot deformity in four children (seven feet) who were between the ages of two and three years and had no history of hypertension. the hypertension subsided slowly after administration of antihypertensive medications or more rapidly after release of the correction that had been obtained operatively.
acute leukemia and related entities. impact of new technology. twenty-seven cases of acute leukemia and related entities were evaluated by morphologic examination, cytochemical study, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase study, immunophenotyping, cytogenetic analysis, ultrastructural cytochemical study, and gene rearrangement analysis to determine the impact on the determination of the french-american-british (fab) classification and the definitive diagnosis. the definitive diagnosis contained prognostic, diagnostic, and treatment information beyond the fab classification that affected the disease course and patient management. all diagnostic variables were evaluated in each case and were labeled essential, ambivalent, supportive, or noncontributory. except for gene rearrangement analysis, all variables we studied contributed essential data to establish the definitive diagnosis. ambivalent findings were rare but could be explained with the knowledge of the total data. all variables, except cytochemical study, whose results were almost always essential, contributed supportive data. noncontributory data only occurred with cytogenetic analysis in cases that demonstrated normal karyotypes. the fab classification was established in 20 (74%) of the cases by use of morphologic examination, cytochemical study, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase study. with use of the same variables, however, the definitive diagnosis, whose determination required all data, was established in only 15 (55.5%) of the cases. the addition of immunophenotyping increased the definitive diagnosis to 25 (92.5%) of the cases. the use of ultrastructural myeloperoxidase and platelet peroxidase analysis enabled us to definitively diagnose the remaining two cases (27 cases [100%]). cytogenetic analysis revealed four cases in which essential information was added to the diagnosis. however, because the cytogenetic information usually was not immediately available, the result did not affect the immediate diagnosis or treatment. surprisingly, the gene rearrangement studies did not yield essential data in any case and in a few cases contributed ambivalent data. this finding should not exclude gene rearrangement analysis in selected cases; however, the data should always be interpreted in light of all clinical and laboratory findings. this study clearly demonstrates the importance of a multifaceted approach to the understanding of the acute leukemias and related entities and shows the impact of newer technologies on reaching a definitive diagnosis.
sphincter preservation in rectal cancer by local excision and postoperative radiation therapy. the authors report the preliminary results of 14 patients with localized, mobile, resectable rectal cancer treated with local excision and postoperative radiation therapy (rt). all had negative surgical resection margins and two received 5-fluorouracil (5-fu). the median follow-up was 29 months (4-43 months). the 3-year actuarial survival was 88%. the incidence of local failure was 7% (only site of failure) and 21% (component of failure). the incidence of local failure increased with t stage (t1, 0/3 [0%]; t2, 1/7 [14%]; and t3, 2/4 [50%]) and tumor size (greater than 3 cm, 33%, versus less than or equal to 3 cm, 0%). three patients developed local failure at 6, 15, and 21 months. three underwent a salvage abdominoperineal resection and were locally controlled at 2 and 28 months following salvage surgery. one patient underwent an abdominoperineal resection for a clinically presumed local failure; however, no tumor was found in the specimen. therefore, the 13 patients who either were initially locally controlled or underwent salvage or nonsalvage surgery had no evidence of disease in the pelvis at the time of last follow-up. local excision and postoperative rt may be an alternative to standard surgery in selected cases. however, additional follow-up and more experience are needed in order to determine if this approach will ultimately have local control and survival rates similar to those of a low anterior resection or an abdominoperineal resection.
status of sex steroid hormone receptors in large bowel cancer. to determine the potential role of sex steroid hormones in the development of colorectal tumors in humans, specific androgen (ar), estrogen (er), and progesterone (pgr) receptors were investigated in normal mucosa (nm) and in tumor (t) paired biopsy specimens from 94 patients. androgen receptors were detected in 98% and 96% of nm and t samples, er in 91% and 83% of nm and t biopsy samples, whereas pgr were detected only in 14% and 10% of nm and t specimens, respectively. these incidences are independent of the sex and age of the patients. they are not related to tumor localization, histologic grade, or stages of dukes' classification. scatchard analysis of labeled ligand binding indicated the existence of one single class of high affinity binding sites; the calculated dissociation constant (kd) was 1.7 +/- 0.6 10(-9) molar concentration (m) for 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (dht) and 0.6 +/- 0.3 10(-9) m for estradiol (e2). these values were identical in nm and t tissue for both ar and er. the binding capacity for dht was 148 +/- 67 and 93 +/- 43 fmol/mg of cytosol protein in nm and t tissues, respectively (p less than 0.05). the er content was lower and similar in nm and t biopsy specimens: 19 +/- 9 and 18 +/- 10 fmol/mg protein, respectively. the pgr content was 10 +/- 4 in nm versus 17.5 +/- 6 fmol/mg protein in t specimens. it is observed that the elevated ar in normal mucosa is not related to any known function for androgens in the digestive tract. the receptor pattern observed in tumors does not support the hypothesis previously raised in the case of chemically induced colonic tumors in rodents.
the efficacy of comprehensive neck dissection with or without postoperative radiotherapy in nodal metastases of squamous cell carcinoma of the upper respiratory and digestive tracts. neck recurrence-free curves corrected for local recurrence were compared for 494 patients who underwent 565 comprehensive neck dissections. in 42 dissections, no radicality could be obtained. of the 523 histologically radical dissections, examination revealed tumor in 352 cases. patients in whom three or more positive nodes or extranodal spread in one or more nodes were found received postoperative radiotherapy. in the histologically n0 group, the incidence of neck recurrence after 5 years was 3%; in the n+ group as a whole, it was 10%. analysis of the influence of extranodal spread and the number of positive nodes showed that the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread (that did not receive postoperative radiotherapy) did not statistically differ from the other groups. this suggests that the results of the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread can be improved by postoperative radiotherapy.
a randomized, controlled trial of prophylactic ganciclovir for cytomegalovirus pulmonary infection in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplants; the city of hope-stanford-syntex cmv study group background. cytomegalovirus (cmv)-associated interstitial pneumonia is a major cause of death after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. we conducted a controlled trial of ganciclovir in recipients of bone marrow transplants who had asymptomatic pulmonary cmv infection. we also sought to identify risk factors for the development of cmv interstitial pneumonia. methods. after bone marrow transplantation, 104 patients who had no evidence of respiratory disease underwent routine bronchoalveolar lavage on day 35. the 40 patients who had positive cultures for cmv were randomly assigned to either prophylactic ganciclovir or observation alone. ganciclovir (5 mg per kilogram of body weight intravenously) was given twice daily for two weeks and then five times per week until day 120. results. of the 20 culture-positive patients who received prophylactic ganciclovir, 5 (25 percent) died or had cmv pneumonia before day 120, as compared with 14 of the 20 culture-positive control patients (70 percent) who were not treated prophylactically (relative risk, 0.36; p = 0.01). no patient who received the full course of ganciclovir prophylaxis went on to have cmv interstitial pneumonia. four patients treated with ganciclovir had maximal serum creatinine levels greater than or equal to 221 mumol per liter (2.5 mg per deciliter), as compared with none of the controls (p = 0.029). of the 55 cmv-negative patients who could be evaluated, 12 (22 percent) had cmv pneumonia--a significantly lower rate than in the untreated cmv-positive control patients (relative risk, 0.33; p = 0.003). the strongest predictors of cmv pneumonia were a lavage-fluid culture that was positive for cmv and a cmv-positive blood culture, both from specimens obtained on day 35. conclusion. in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow, asymptomatic cmv infection of the lung is a major risk factor for subsequent cmv interstitial pneumonia. prophylactic ganciclovir is effective in preventing the development of cmv interstitial pneumonia in patients with asymptomatic infection.
the prognostic value of modal deoxyribonucleic acid in low grade, low stage untreated prostate cancer. we selected for a prospective surveillance study 167 patients with untreated grades 1 and 2 prostate cancer. the tumors were classified regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid value (ploidy) by flow cytometry, cytological grade by transrectal fine needle aspiration biopsy and local tumor stage. of the patients 146 could be evaluated. mean followup was 50 months. the initial ploidy was statistically correlated to cytological grade but not to initial local tumor stage, prostatic acid phosphatase activity or patient age. initial ploidy and cytological grade had a prognostic value regarding local tumor progression when considered as single predictors and in combination. two patients with diploid and 8 with nondiploid tumors initially had metastases during the surveillance. five patients (1 with diploid and 4 with nondiploid disease) died of prostatic cancer. modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological grade were of prognostic value in untreated prostate cancer.
skin responses to intradermal histamine and leukotrienes c4, d4, and e4 in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and in normal subjects. mast cell inflammatory mediators, such as histamine, and newly formed compounds, such as the leukotrienes, cause wheal and flare when they are injected intradermally into normal subjects and may therefore play a role in the formation of urticaria. the effects of intradermal injections (50 microliters) of six different concentrations of histamine (range, 3.3 x 10(-4) to 3.3 x 10(-9) mol/l) and the leukotrienes c4, d4, and e4 (range, 2 x 10(-4) to 2 x 10(-9) mol/l) have been compared in 10 normal subjects and in 10 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria. wheal-and-flare sizes were measured at timed intervals up to 4 hours, and area under the curve for each response over time was calculated. there were no significant differences in leukotriene-induced responses between groups. maximum sizes of histamine-induced wheal and flare were similar in each group of subjects. there were, however, significant increases in mean areas under the response curve of histamine wheal and flare in the patients with urticaria (wheal, p less than 0.001; flare, p less than 0.001; analysis of variance). these findings demonstrate a prolongation of skin responses to histamine in patients with urticaria and suggest an impaired clearance of histamine (or other vasoactive agents released by histamine) from the skin of these patients.
two distinct loci on the short arm of chromosome 16 are involved in myeloid leukemia. we report a case of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) m5 with the characteristic t(8;16)(p11;p13). the breakpoint in the short arm was regionally localized using nonradioactive in situ hybridization with a series of cosmids of chromosome 16. the results show that a difference exists between the breakpoint in chromosome 16(p13) in this t(8;16) and the breakpoint involved in the short arm in the characteristic inversion 16 (p13;q22)) that occurs in anll m4eo. two different loci appear to be involved in these chromosomal rearrangements.
oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus. a case report. the risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point. many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus. we report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred. there is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population. this suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites.
the pattern of intrathoracic hodgkin's disease assessed by computed tomography. computed tomography (ct) was used to define the sites of intrathoracic abnormality in hodgkin's disease, determine a pattern of progression of disease in the thorax, and establish the place of this pattern of spread in the differential diagnosis of thoracic abnormalities. one hundred eight patients with newly diagnosed hodgkin's disease were studied by chest ct. seventy-seven patients had intrathoracic abnormalities. the pattern seen was one of contiguous spread from the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal area to the other mediastinal lymph node groups (aortopulmonary, subcarinal, posterior mediastinal, and internal mammary), to the hila, and then into the lung by extension or as discrete nodules. involvement of the pleura, pericardium, or chest wall occurred only after the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal mass had enlarged to greater than 30% of the thoracic diameter. the probability that this pattern of contiguous lymph node spread occurred by chance alone was very small. hodgkin's disease spreads from the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal area in a contiguous manner. exceptions are unusual enough that when they occur, diagnoses other than hodgkin's disease are more likely.
time course of hemodynamic responses to sodium in elderly hypertensive patients. thirty-one patients with essential hypertension (81.6 +/- 6.9 years old) were studied during two different regimens of sodium intake: 120 meq/day for 8 weeks and 344 meq/day for 2 weeks. systemic hemodynamic data were measured with doppler echocardiography from which the mitral flow velocity integral, cardiac index, and total peripheral resistance were calculated. the salt-sensitive patients in whom the increase in total peripheral resistance was greater than the increase in cardiac index with salt loading were termed sst. in the salt-sensitive patients termed ssc, the increase in cardiac index was greater than the increase in total peripheral resistance with increased sodium intake. all sst patients on day 7 of the high sodium diet remained in the sst group on day 14. nine of 13 patients in the ssc group on day 7 remained in the ssc group on day 14, and the remaining four patients in the ssc group on day 7 fell into the sst group on day 14. four of eight non-salt-sensitive (nss) patients on day 7 of the high salt regimen remained in the nss group on day 14, whereas the remaining four patients in the nss group on day 7 fell into the ssc group on day 14. our data suggest a changing pattern with sodium loading of initially high cardiac index followed by a persistently raised total peripheral resistance. the celiac, superior mesenteric, and renal arteries vasoconstricted with sodium repletion in both sst and ssc patients. with salt loading, the terminal aortic vascular bed vasodilated in the ssc patients and vasoconstricted in the sst patients.
a simple method to improve the accuracy of non-invasive ultrasound in selecting tia patients for cerebral angiography. a prospective study is reported of the ability of b mode ultrasound imaging and continuous wave doppler flow studies to detect different degrees of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ica) in 186 arteries in 99 patients with transient ischaemic attacks (tia) and minor ischaemic stroke. a simple mathematical equation has been developed which combines the image and flow data to provide a single predictor of the degree of angiographic stenosis which has advantages over either ultrasonic modality used alone. the sensitivity and specificity of the predictive model in the detection of stenosis greater than or equal to 25% was 73% and 98%, of stenosis greater than or equal to 50% was 90% and 93%, of stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, 65% and 99% and occlusion 100% and 94% respectively. the principal clinical value of ultrasound screening is to spare patients with "non-significant" stenosis the risk of unnecessary angiography. thus a simple measure of the duplex screening tests' performance is the proportion of all strokes occurring as a complication of angiography that are avoided by changing the investigation policy from "angiograms for all carotid tia and minor ischaemic stroke patients" to "angiograms for all patients with abnormal ultrasound results". if duplex scanning were used to select patients most likely to have a significant abnormality on angiography, depending on the degree of stenosis to be detected, 52-85% of angiographic strokes might be avoided. if the predictive equation were used 62-88% of angiographic strokes might be avoided.
splenorenal arterial shunt in the treatment of renovascular hypertension. approach by a lumbar-retroperitoneal incision. in a period of 16 years, 29 consecutive patients were operated on for a splenorenal arterial shunt through a lumbotomy incision and a retroperitoneal approach. there were 18 males and 11 females with a medium age of 42 years. all cases had uncontrollable and severe hypertension for an average medium time of 48 months, 11 patients had variable degrees of renal insufficiency. the diagnosis was made utilizing standard methods including in all cases angiography of the abdominal aorta, celiac axis and renal arteries. one patient died after the operation due to intestinal infarction, the remaining have been followed for a medium time of 50 months. all patients improved or cured their renal insufficiency. the hypertension was cured in 23, improved in 4 and failed in 1, this latter patient was successfully autotransplanted. a precise exposition of the surgical technique is presented with comments about their advantages and indications. a review of the literature in surgical experience with the technique of splenorenal arterial anastomosis has been done.
perioperative blood transfusion adversely affects prognosis of patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer. it has been speculated that blood transfusion might adversely affect prognosis in cancer patients by immunosuppression. to avoid the confounding affect of advanced disease, we tested this hypothesis in 117 patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer. mean and median follow-up were 49.7 months and 47 months, respectively. patients who died during the postoperative period were not included. perioperative transfusion was defined as administration of whole blood or packed cells within 30 days of operation. the overall cumulative 5-year disease-free survival rate was 67%. in patients with transfusion, it was 53% and in patients without transfusion it was 81% (p = 0.0055). a multivariate analysis was performed that included patient age, race, sex, cell type, extent of operation (pneumonectomy versus lobectomy/segmentectomy), operative blood loss, admission hematocrit, discharge hematocrit, and the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion. the only variable that significantly correlated with 5-year disease-free survival was the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion (p = 0.0278), and this effect was not related to the number of transfusions. retrospective analysis of long-term results of patients surviving curative operation for stage i lung cancer shows that any perioperative transfusion significantly worsens the patient's prognosis and suggests very strongly that this association is due to an adverse effect of the transfusion rather than the transfusion serving as a marker for another risk factor.
clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. objective: to review the clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (osa). data source and selection: all articles on osa published in french and english between 1970 and 1990 and indexed in index medicus were reviewed. studies addressing the epidemiologic features and clinical aspects of osa were selected, and special emphasis was given to articles reporting the effects of treatment on morbidity and mortality rates. main results: osa is characterized by episodes of upper airway obstruction during sleep that result in repetitive hypoxemia and sleep disruption. osa leads to various neuropsychologic and cardiovascular complications, including daytime hypersomnolence, cognitive impairment, systemic and pulmonary hypertension and cardiac arrhythmias. there is suggestive evidence that the death rate among affected people is increased. the true incidence of osa is unknown, but estimates have varied from 1% upwards among men. the current treatment with the greatest overall effectiveness and acceptability is nasal continuous positive airway pressure. conclusion: this common, readily treatable disorder is associated with serious complications and therefore must be widely recognized by health professionals.
impact of orifice geometry on the shape of jets: an in vitro doppler color flow study. to investigate the influence of orifice geometry on the three-dimensional shape of jets, an in vitro doppler color flow study was performed. jets were formed by discharging blood through round orifices and through orifices with major/minor axis ratios of 2:1, 3:1 and 5:1. these were repeated with orifice areas of 0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 cm2. for turbulent and laminar jets formed by these orifices, doppler color flow images were obtained from two orthogonal scanning planes aligned with the major and minor orifice axes. jet width was measured at 1 cm intervals from 0 to 5 cm from the orifice and used to calculate jet eccentricity (ratio of major to minor axis widths) and the rate of divergence of the jet walls. jets were observed to diverge more rapidly along walls aligned with the orifice minor axis rather than along the major axis. this differential spreading led to the development of circular symmetry at a short distance from the orifice. jet divergence (theta) occurred more rapidly for turbulent jets and for jets formed by larger orifices: theta (zero) = 0.80 + 6.3.a + 7.0.t + 0.47.e-or (r = 95, p less than 0.0001, n = 48), where a is orifice area (cm2); t is 0 for laminar jets, 1 for turbulent jets and e-or combines orifice eccentricity and scanning orientation, ranging from -5 for 5:1 orifices imaged along the major axis, 0 for circular orifices to 5 for 5:1 orifices imaged along the minor axis. within the jet, eccentricity decayed approximately exponentially with distance from the orifice, more rapidly for turbulent jets, more slowly for the larger and more eccentric orifices.
usefulness of labetalol in chronic atrial fibrillation. beta-adrenergic blocking agents are useful in controlling excessive ventricular rate in chronic atrial fibrillation (af) but often reduce exercise capacity. to investigate the advantage of labetalol--a unique beta blocker with alpha-blocking property--in chronic af, 10 patients without underlying structural heart disease were studied with treadmill test, 12-minute walk and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. patients were randomized and crossed over to receive 4 phases of treatment (placebo, digoxin, digoxin with half-dose labetalol, and full-dose labetalol). exercise durations were 14.1 +/- 1.5, 14.2 +/- 1.5, 16.1 +/- 1.1 and 15.6 +/- 1.1 minutes, respectively, indicating that labetalol did not reduce exercise tolerance. although digoxin had no advantage over placebo in controlling maximal heart rate (177 +/- 2 vs 175 +/- 3 beats/min), labetalol, both as monotherapy or as an adjunct to digoxin, was advantageous (156 +/- 4 vs 177 +/- 2 beats/min, p less than 0.01, and 154 +/- 4 vs 177 +/- 2 beats/min, p less than 0.01, respectively). the rate-pressure product was consistently lowered by labetalol at rest and during exercise. at peak exercise, the addition of labetalol to digoxin reduced the maximal rate-pressure product achieved from 30,900 +/- 1300 to 24,100 +/- 2,000 mm hg/min (p less than 0.01) and the maximal rate-pressure product was lowest with full-dose labetalol (22,300 +/- 1,600 mm hg/min). during submaximal exercise on treadmill or during the 12-minute walk, the combination of labetalol and digoxin produced the best heart rate control, whereas labetalol monotherapy was comparable to digoxin therapy.
abnormal liver enzyme levels. evaluation in asymptomatic patients. chronic elevation of serum aminotransferase levels, even in the absence of symptoms, often reflects chronic hepatitis or other significant underlying liver disease. patients with persistently abnormal alkaline phosphatase levels may have extrahepatic biliary tract disease or a chronic cholestatic disorder. physicians can discover unsuspected liver disease without undue risk, expense, or inconvenience to the patient by means of the following: a carefully taken history and thorough physical examination, appropriate timing of follow-up blood tests, and timely referral for percutaneous liver biopsy or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography.
effect of coronary hyperemia on emax and oxygen consumption in blood-perfused rabbit hearts. energetic consequences of gregg's phenomenon. to assess the relation between increases in contractile function and oxygen consumption (vo2) during increased coronary flow (gregg's phenomenon), we measured the end-systolic pressure-volume relation and the relation between vo2 and left ventricular systolic pressure-volume area (pva, a measure of total mechanical energy output) in blood-perfused, isovolumically contracting rabbit hearts during control and intracoronary adenosine infusion. during adenosine infusion at a constant perfusion pressure (93 +/- 11 mm hg), coronary flow increased by 99 +/- 76% (p less than 0.01), and the slope of the end-systolic pressure-volume relation, emax (ventricular contractility index), increased by 18 +/- 15% (p less than 0.01). when compared at the same left ventricular volume, pva increased by 20 +/- 14% (p less than 0.01) and vo2 by 19 +/- 15% (p less than 0.01) with adenosine. the vo2-pva relation was linear under each condition (both median r = 0.98). with increased coronary flow, the vo2-intercept of the vo2-pva relation (unloaded vo2) increased by 22 +/- 18% (p less than 0.01) without a change in the slope; that is, a parallel upward shift was observed, indicating that the contractile efficiency (energy conversion efficiency of the contractile machinery) remained constant. these increases in emax and unloaded vo2 were not eliminated by beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol. we conclude that increased coronary flow with adenosine at a constant perfusion pressure augments both emax and the nonmechanical energetic cost for excitation-contraction coupling and basal metabolism via nonadrenergic mechanisms, without changing contractile efficiency.
causes and consequences of blood pressure alterations in obstructive sleep apnea. the obstructive sleep apnea (osa) syndrome has been considered to be a cause of both transient blood pressure elevations during sleep and sustained hypertension during the awake state. the purpose of this review was to examine critically the existing literature regarding (1) the blood pressure alterations associated with osa, (2) causal mechanisms relating specific blood pressure alterations to osa, and (3) potential consequences of the systemic circulatory abnormalities associated with osa. particular attention was directed at studies that assessed the prevalence of osa in patients with hypertension and that examined the effects on blood pressure of treatment of osa. we conclude that patients with osa have abnormal sleep blood pressure patterns, manifested most frequently by apnea-associated blood pressure elevations. confounding factors such as obesity and antihypertensive drug therapy, and conflicting evidence regarding changes in daytime blood pressure after therapy for osa, make it premature to conclude that osa and daytime hypertension are directly associated. circumstantial evidence suggests that the blood pressure alterations that occur during sleep could contribute to the high cardiovascular morbidity in patients with osa. further research into the relationship between osa and hypertension should improve the future care of patients with these conditions and enhance our understanding of cardiopulmonary pathophysiology.
severe hypotension due to intramyometrial injection of prostaglandin e2 treatment of postpartum haemorrhage because of uterine atony with intramyometrial prostaglandin e2 1 mg, in an anaesthetised patient resulted in life-threatening hypotension. anaesthetists should be aware of the potential cardiovascular side effects of prostaglandins.
constitutional symptoms in patients with germ cell neoplasms. a patient with a mediastinal germ cell neoplasm evidenced fever, weight loss, pruritus, and painful adenopathy on ingestion of alcohol. retrospective review revealed that 9 percent of 104 patients with advanced germ cell neoplasm evidence constitutional symptoms at presentation.
impaired awareness of behavioral limitations after traumatic brain injury. sixty-four traumatically brain injured patients were divided into three groups. patients in group i overestimated their behavioral competencies. patients in group ii showed behavioral ratings similar to relatives' reports concerning behavioral competencies. patients in group iii underestimated their behavioral competencies. group i patients had greater evidence of bilateral and multiple-site lesions than group ii and iii patients. speed of left-hand finger tapping was also worse in group i than groups ii and iii, but other standard neuropsychologic test findings failed to separate the groups. specific brain lesion sites were not related to group membership. impaired awareness of behavioral limitations after traumatic brain injury may be related to neuropsychologic changes not measured by standard tests. bilateral impairment of heteromodal cortex may be important to this phenomenon when it exists several months or years postinjury.
a case of dyschondroplasia associated with brain stem glioma: diagnosis by stereotactic biopsy. we present a 24-year-old patient with multiple chondromas of both hands, the pelvis, the left leg, and an associated brain stem glioma. there was no evidence of hemangioma or dyschromia, and the condition was diagnosed as ollier's disease, a special type of dyschondroplasia like maffucci's syndrome and kast's disease. an increased overall risk for development of malignant skeletal and nonskeletal tumors is associated with maffucci's syndrome. the risk of malignant degeneration is lower in ollier's disease. a glioma in the pons and the right lobe of the cerebellum was found in this patient. the literature describes an association with gliomas in only 12 cases of dyschondroplasia and an infratentorial localization in just one case. signs of malignancy were histologically confirmed in 7 cases without significant preponderance of any one type. our patient had a low-grade brain stem astrocytoma with fibrillar and gemistocytic components. a stereotactic serial biopsy made it possible to rule out malignant degeneration. stereotactic brain tumor biopsy as a routine neurosurgical procedure is particularly valuable for deep space-occupying processes and forms the basis for therapy. in the present case, irradiation was not recommended.
factors influencing the development of metabolic bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis. the prevalence, type, and factors that may influence the development of bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis, have been investigated in 20 consecutive patients, who, in addition to liver function tests and mineral and vitamin d metabolism studies, were submitted to a transiliac bone biopsy after tetracycline double-labeling for quantitative histomorphometric examination. intestinal calcium absorption was also assessed in 16 patients. seven patients (35%) had reduced bone volume and were considered osteoporotic. three also had bone mineralization impairment, but did not have criteria for osteomalacia. bone formation was depressed in 15 patients, and bone resorption was low or normal in 19 cases. eroded surfaces were reduced in all osteoporotic patients. duration of primary biliary cirrhosis was significantly longer in patients with osteoporosis (6.3 +/- 0.6 yr) than in those without osteoporosis (2.6 +/- 0.6, p = 0.004). moreover, osteoporosis was more prevalent in postmenopausal women, and in those who had intestinal calcium malabsorption, which was present in 80% of osteoporotic patients but in only 18% of nonosteoporotic patients (p = 0.03). osteoporosis and mineralization bone impairment were unrelated to the severity of cholestasis. 25-hydroxyvitamin d was significantly lower in those patients with intestinal calcium malabsorption. the results of this study indicate that osteodystrophy in primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized mainly by "low-turnover" osteoporosis, which is related to the duration of the liver disease, postmenopausal condition, and calcium malabsorption.
vasoactive peptide release in the extracerebral circulation of humans during migraine headache. the innervation of the cranial vessels by the trigeminal nerve, the trigeminovascular system, has recently been the subject of study in view of its possible role in the mediation of some aspects of migraine. since stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion in humans leads to facial pain and flushing and associated release of powerful neuropeptide vasodilator substances, their local release into the extracerebral circulation of humans was determined in patients who had either common or classic migraine. venous blood was sampled from both the external jugular and cubital fossa ipsilateral to the side of headache. plasma levels of neuropeptide y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance p, and calcitonin gene-related peptide were determined using sensitive radioimmunoassays for each peptide, and values for the cubital fossa and external jugular and a control population were compared. a substantial elevation of the calcitonin gene-related peptide level in the external jugular but not the cubital fossa blood was seen in both classic and common migraine. the increase seen in classic migraine was greater than that seen with common migraine. the other peptides measured were unaltered. this finding may have importance in the pathophysiology of migraine.
invasive migration of epidemic kaposi's sarcoma cells in vitro. kaposi's sarcoma (ks) is a low grade malignant neoplasm which shows invasive growth and often occurs in immunosuppressed patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids; epidemic ks). it is also found in elderly men where it is usually limited to the skin (classic ks). the present study investigated the chemotaxis and invasive migration of epidemic ks cells in vitro and compared them to cells grown from classic ks lesions and to fibroblasts. epidemic ks cells demonstrated invasive migration through reconstituted basement membrane (matrigel) as well as through interstitial connective tissue (collagen i) in early passages, whereas fibroblasts did not invade either barrier. epidemic ks cells in late passages did not show any invasive migration. following pretreatment with tumour necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) there was no enhanced migration through the matrigel and collagen i for epidemic ks cells, whereas classic ks cells showed an increased migration through the type i collagen barrier.
steroid anabolic drugs and arterial complications in an athlete--a case history. serious side effects and complications have been attributed to anabolic and androgenic steroids when used for medical reasons or when taken in sports in hopes of increasing strength and, hence, performance. the author presents a case of an athlete who experienced two metachronous arterial complications after taking these drugs: a cerebrovascular accident caused by a carotid artery thrombus that partially embolized to the brain and, later, a severe ischemic episode in a lower limb caused by a diffused distal arterial thrombosis. this patient represents the first reported case of vascular events in an otherwise healthy athlete taking androgens to increase his skeletal muscle mass.
angioplasty of coronary bifurcation stenoses: immediate and long-term results of the protecting branch technique. percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (ptca) of coronary stenoses involving major bifurcations carries a small but significant risk of side branch occlusion which can be avoided by simultaneously using multiple dilatation systems. among 1,275 ptca procedures performed between 1984 and 1988 in 1,035 consecutive patients, 42 double wire procedures were applied (4%) to protect and/or dilate major coronary side branches. a total of 80 coronary stenoses were attempted of which 76 were located on a bifurcation and 4 on other segments. in the first 11 patients (group a), 2 guiding catheters were used and ptca of each vessel was successfully performed by means of separate double lumen over-the-wire balloon catheters. in the next 31 patients (group b), 2 guidewires were advanced through a single guiding catheter and ptca was attempted using "monorail" balloon catheters sequentially advanced over the wires. in group b, a successful ptca was obtained in 29 patients (93%) but twisting of the wires hampered balloon progression in 5 cases, such that dilatation could only be performed by stepping back to a single wire technique. the procedure time in group b was significantly shorter than in group a: 144 +/- 30 versus 230 +/- 52 minutes (p = .01). repeat angiography was performed in 35 out of 40 patients (87%) after a mean of 180 +/- 46 days following successful ptca. angiographic restenosis was present in 37% (24/65) of bifurcation segments which, in our experience, is not significantly different from the angiographic restenosis rate in less complex lesions (248/740; 34%; ns).
pancreatic involvement in human immunodeficiency virus infection. involvement of the pancreas by human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection has not been adequately addressed and is the object of this review. i analyzed the english language literature, including single case reports of pancreatic involvement and larger series reporting detailed pathological findings of patients with hiv infection. nonspecific pathological changes in the pancreas are frequently seen at autopsy of hiv-infected patients, but are not more common than in controls. several types of infections (mainly cytomegalovirus, cryptococcus neoformans, and mycobacteria) and neoplasms (lymphoma and kaposi's sarcoma) can involve the pancreas because they are usually disseminated. although the serum amylase may be elevated, the patient remains asymptomatic. occasional instances of severe and even fatal pancreatitis have been reported with hiv infections and attendant drug toxicity. pentamidine has a predictable incidence of hypoglycemic episodes and 2',3'-dideoxyinosine provokes pancreatitis in a minority of treated patients. such drug toxicity seems to deserve greater clinical concern than opportunistic infections or neoplasms.
oral or intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunoprophylaxis in bladder carcinoma. a total of 71 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma underwent transurethral resection of bladder tumor. all patients had stage pta or pt1 transitional cell carcinoma or carcinoma in situ without other concurrent malignancies. the patients were assigned to 3 treatment groups: control group--transurethral resection discontinued within the study, oral bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg) group--transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus bcg (moreau) and intravesical bcg group--transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus bcg. of 9 patients in the control group 8 (89%) experienced tumor recurrence during a mean followup of 20 months. of the 28 patients in the oral bcg group 11 (39.3%) had recurrence during a mean followup of 36 months. of the 34 patients in the intravesical group 6 (18%) had recurrence in a 24-month mean followup. the incidence of complications was higher in the intravesical (41.2%) than in the oral bcg group (28.5%). these results show that intravesical bcg is a more effective immunotherapy; however, oral bcg can be used in patients who do not accept intravesical bcg administration.
the effect of established and gestational diabetes on pregnancy outcome. objective--to study the prevalence and type of glucose intolerance in pregnancy and the effect of different types on perinatal mortality and fetal size. design--a prospective case-control study with data collected by patient interview and examination of all available records during a 16-months period between 1984 and 1986. setting--a large maternity hospital in kuwait where diabetes in pregnancy is common. subjects--the cases were a consecutive sample of 731 women, delivered during the study period, recorded in the labour ward register as being diabetic or having abnormal glucose tolerance, the control group was formed from the next woman in the register (provided she was not known to be diabetic). main outcome measures--type of diabetes followed the who classification, with subdivision depending on level of fasting plasma glucose. type of perinatal death was examined in detail and birthweight centile calculated. results--of the 731 cases, 22% were established diabetics, most were treated with oral hypoglycaemic drugs before pregnancy and insulin during pregnancy. of those discovered during pregnancy, 43% were classified as gestational diabetes and the remainder as impaired glucose tolerance. overall, 50% of cases were treated with insulin. established diabetics had a perinatal mortality rate nearly four times greater than non diabetics (rr, 3.7, 95% ci 2.6 to 6.4) and for gestational diabetics rr was 2.0 95% ci 1.2 to 3.7). unexplained deaths were particularly common, both in established diabetics (rr, 18.4, 95% ci 3.9 to 85.7) and in gestational diabetics (rr, 13.4, 95% (ci 2.9 to 61.6). cases with impaired glucose tolerance had no stillbirths and had a lower perinatal loss than the controls, though this was not statistically significant. heavier babies were seen in all case groups compared with controls, though the impaired glucose tolerance group had lower birthweights than the other two case groups. conclusions--type 2 diabetes was found to be common, most cases being diagnosed in pregnancy. under the conditions found in kuwait, diabetes, in the sense of a raised fasting glucose, is accompanied by a high rate of perinatal loss from unexplained stillbirth. this applies whether the condition was present before pregnancy or was discovered during pregnancy. fetal macrosomia was also common in both situations. impaired glucose tolerance, where fasting levels remain normal, does not appear to increase fetal loss, but may be associated with fetal macrosomia. as these women age they are likely to develop overt diabetes in the non-pregnant state, and subsequently to develop serious complications of this disease. improving glycaemic control, both during preg.
therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine. we investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months. after stroke had occurred, the rats were divided into three groups: 1) parathyroidectomy, 2) nimodipine, and 3) controls. in the nimodipine group, the rats survived longer than those in the other groups. blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals. the increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity, urea, and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy. the histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats. in the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups, healing of the lesions was detectable. cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis. nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions. in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate. the cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated, and morphologic signs of healing were observed. reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy, even in an advanced stage of disease, had a therapeutic effect.
esophageal malignancies: is preoperative radiotherapy the way to go? during the period 1969 to 1988, 68 patients with esophageal malignancy were subjected to preoperative radiotherapy consisting of 30 gy over 3 weeks followed by esophagectomy after a wait of 2 weeks. sixty-two of 68 patients (91%) were followed up retrospectively (5-year survival rate, 17.2%; 10-year survival rate, 4.8%). radiosensitivity of the tumor was graded by a radiation effect scoring method devised by us, and this was found to correlate with long-term prognosis (p = 0.05). radiotherapy "sterilized" malignant involvement of adventitia and draining lymph nodes in 8 patients and thereby converted "palliative" into potentially "curative" resections with a mean survival of 57.2 months in this group of patients. preoperative radiotherapy was found to increase the survival, decrease the incidence of residual tumor at the resected stump, reduce the incidence of local recurrence, and increase the resectability rate.
changes in interferon receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b being treated with interferon. we studied the binding of 125i-labeled human interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells and the activity of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase in peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from 21 patients with chronic hepatitis b who were treated with human interferon-alpha or interferon-beta. fourteen patients were given interferon daily for 4 wk. interferon receptors per cell decreased to about 50% of baseline but increased to baseline by 2 wk after therapy ended. the activity of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase rose about fivefold during therapy, decreasing to baseline by 1 wk after the end of therapy. the seven other patients were given interferon daily for 2 wk, no interferon for 2 wk and then interferon daily for 2 wk more. during both periods of therapy on this schedule, interferon receptors decreased to about 50% but returned to baseline 1 wk after the interferon was stopped. the activity of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase increased about fivefold during both the first and second periods of therapy and decreased to baseline 1 wk after interferon was stopped. close negative correlation existed between the number of interferon receptors and the 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase activity. the results of interferon therapy could not be predicted by either the numbers of interferon receptors before therapy or by the decrease in this number during therapy.
risk factors for breast cancer. despite the numerous risk factors for the development of breast cancer that have been investigated, only a few demonstrate a clear association with breast cancer development. female gender and increasing age are the most important factors, followed by factors involving a woman's menstrual, reproductive, and family history. the risks related to menstruation and reproduction are probably related to the duration of estrogenic breast stimulation. the relationship of family history and breast cancer risk is unclear, but there may be a true genetic basis. the previous occurrence of breast cancer (invasive or in situ), the presence of proliferative pathological changes, especially with atypia, and the presence of other malignancies (e.g., primary ovarian and endometrial cancer) are histological risk factors for the development of new or recurrent breast cancer. radiation exposure, the use of exogenous estrogens (both estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives), diet (especially fat consumption), and alcohol intake may all play a role in cancer risk. certain medications as well as patient demographics may also have a weak association. cigarette smoking, caffeine consumption, and stress presently have little support for an association with breast cancer risk. it should be noted that in only one in four patients can breast cancer be accounted for by the known risk factors. this demonstrates that although presently known risk factors may help in screening for the early detection of breast carcinoma, in its possible prevention by modulation of influenceable factors, and in advising patients about their risks, these factors are merely strong associations with breast cancer incidence and not actual causations. the mechanisms of the development of breast cancer are as yet unknown.
increased expression of the laminin receptor in human colon cancer. it has been proposed that among the various cell-surface proteins capable of interacting with laminin, the 67-kd high-affinity laminin receptor plays a crucial role during tumor invasion and metastasis. in this study, the expression of laminin-receptor-precursor messenger rna (mrna) and 67-kd protein was analyzed in human colon adenocarcinoma. in 22 of 23 patients with colon cancer, we found a 2- to 23-fold increase in levels of laminin-receptor-precursor mrna in the cancer tissues compared with those in matched normal adjacent colonic mucosa. in 10 of 11 cases studied, the level of 67-kd laminin receptor, detected by affinity-purified anti-laminin-receptor synthetic peptide antibodies on immunoblots of matched tumor and normal tissue extracts, was higher in the colon carcinoma tissue. immunodetection of laminin receptor in tissue sections using anti-laminin-receptor-peptide antibodies confirmed that the increased expression of laminin receptor was specifically associated with the cancer cells. in a series of 72 paraffin sections of colon lesions, we observed a correlation between the expression of the laminin receptor and the dukes' classification. our observations indicate that increased expression of laminin-receptor-precursor mrna is associated with enhanced levels of the 67-kd laminin receptor as well as with the invasive phenotype of colon carcinoma. detection of this metastasis-associated gene product may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of human colon cancer.
synchronous reconstruction for combined aortoiliac and femoropopliteal occlusive lesions. the role of proximal bypass. between january 1984 and december 1986, 31 patients underwent synchronous revascularization (sr) because of the serious clinical condition of a lower limb and presence of arteriographically visible lesions. average follow-up was 30 months. operative mortality was 10%. two patient populations were identified: group i (n = 13): patients who underwent ilio-femoral or aorto-femoral proximal revascularization (pr); group ii (n = 18): patients who had axillo-femoral pr. group i patients were younger than those in group ii (64 yr versus 72 yr; p less than 0.01). an association of pre-operative risk factors (arterial hypertension; coronary, renal or respiratory insufficiency) was twice as frequent in group ii as in group i (p less than 0.02). the rate of sr compared to pr alone was 15%. however, there was no statistically significant difference between groups i and ii. comparison of the actuarial survival curves for patients ahd the patency rates of sr in groups i and ii failed to reveal any statistically significant differences. axillo-femoral bypass can be used for pr when sr is necessary in high risk patients.
contracturing granulomatous myositis: a separate entity. granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis, but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation. patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles. there are, however, a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs. two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs, but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease, is presented. it is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness. the association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related.
group b streptococcus: an unusual cause of severe peritonitis in young children treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) patients is only rarely caused by beta-hemolytical streptococci species. we describe two young children, aged 15 months and 5 years, respectively, who presented an unusually severe course of peritonitis due to group b beta-hemolytical streptococci. this course of the disease showed a strong similarity with neonatal streptococcal septicemia. in neonates, igg2 deficiency is thought to be partly responsible for the severity of this condition. this may also be true for young children treated with capd, since igg2 deficiency has been established for children.
monomorphic adenomas of the major salivary glands: clinicopathological study of 44 cases. we report 44 cases of monomorphic adenoma (ma) of the major salivary glands observed during the years 1979-1989. all of these tumours were reviewed and classified on the basis of the world health organisation (who) criteria. histological type, site, sex and age were considered. 34 cases of adenolymphoma were observed, all of them located in the parotid glands; 10 ma without lymphoid stroma were located in both parotid and submandibular glands. distinctive histological and clinico-pathological features of the latter group of tumours are discussed, as well as the diagnostic criteria in distinguishing these tumours from pleomorphic adenoma and adenoid-cystic carcinoma.
intracorporeal biliary lithotripsy. most bile duct calculi can be removed with standard percutaneous or endoscopic techniques. very large stones are the most common cause for failure. intracorporeal lithotripsy, and ehl in particular, can be used safely in either the biliary tree or gallbladder to fragment these large stones and allow percutaneous removal or passage. intracorporeal ehl requires direct vision to prevent damage to the bile duct mucosa. intracorporeal laser lithotripsy may offer some safety advantages, but the laser requires much more expensive equipment than intracorporeal ehl. additional studies are needed to determine the technique that is better in each circumstance.
delayed-onset dystonia due to perinatal or early childhood asphyxia. we report 10 patients with delayed-onset dystonia associated with perinatal asphyxia and 2 associated with asphyxia in childhood. in the perinatal group, the mean age of onset was 12.9 years. among these patients, dystonia continued to progress for a mean of 7 years, and as long as 28 years. these patients had moderate motor disability; none was wheelchair-bound, and thus their prognosis was better than that of the childhood-onset idiopathic torsion dystonias. the most frequently beneficial drugs were anticholinergics. since some of these patients closely resembled cases of idiopathic torsion dystonia, the prior occurrence of asphyxia should be used as a criterion of exclusion for that diagnosis.
intercostal arteriovenous fistula due to pleural biopsy a 32 year old woman had a pleural biopsy for a left pleural effusion, which showed caseating granuloma typical of tuberculosis. when the fourth biopsy specimen was removed considerable bleeding occurred from the puncture site. four days later a bruit was audible over the punctured area, radiating to the back. eight days after the procedure the patient had a massive bleed into the left pleural space. selective aortic angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula between the 9th intercostal artery and vein and a pseudoaneurysm in the intercostal punctured area. thoracotomy showed bleeding from the site of the pleural biopsy. the intercostal vessels were ligated and pleural decortication was performed, and the patient recovered uneventfully.
allograft reconstructions of the shoulder after bone tumor resections. large skeletal defects resulting from tumor resections about the shoulder create reconstructive challenges for the orthopedic surgeon. bone allografts offer several advantages compared with other reconstructive techniques, and functional outcomes are generally satisfactory. they may be used either as osteoarticular grafts, intercalated segments to create an arthrodesis, or in combination with standard proximal humerus metallic implants. patient expectations and specific oncologic factors must be considered when selecting the optimal method of reconstruction.
surgical prophylaxis of malignant melanoma. a review of a 14-year experience with prophylactic pigmented skin lesion removal is presented. data obtained during a 4-year interval of this 14-year experience is analyzed specifically. during this 4-year interval, 250 patients with melanoma were seen. of these patients, 75 with a history of stage i (localized) melanoma and three patients with stage ii (history of controlled regionally metastatic melanoma) underwent removal of multiple skin lesions on a prophylactic basis. of the removed lesions, 28% showed hyperplasia, atypia, dysplasia, or melanoma. nine unsuspected in situ, or level i melanomas, and three unsuspected invasive melanomas were removed from these 75 melanoma patients while excising lesions prophylactically during the 4-year interval. it is estimated that four to six additional melanomas were prevented by excision of precursor lesions. during the same 4-year interval, an additional 112 of approximately 1000 patients without a previous history of melanoma underwent prophylactic lesion removals. in 31% of the 112 patients, there was a history of melanoma in a first-degree relative. in 22% of the removed lesions there was hyperplasia, atypia, or dysplasia. three cases of melanoma in situ were detected and it is estimated that an additional three to five cases of melanoma were prevented. atypical findings occurred in 71, or 63%, of the patients biopsied, which represented 7% of the approximately 1000 patients screened. during the 4-year interval, an average of 17.7 lesions were removed from each of the 190 melanoma and nonmelanoma patients undergoing prophylactic skin lesion excision. this was accomplished in one to four sessions per patient. this average reflects only those patients who underwent one excision or more and does not include those patients treated without operation. when including the nonoperated patients screened during this interval, the average number of lesions removed was 2.7 per patient. death from new melanomas was prevented during the 14-year period of this study as evidenced by the fact that no patient died or developed metastatic disease from a cutaneous melanoma that was not apparent or known about at the time of first examination.
angiography, angioscopy, and ultrasound imaging before and after percutaneous balloon angioplasty. we report two patients undergoing peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in whom angiography, angioscopy, and ultrasound imaging were performed before and after balloon angioplasty. the first case with smooth atheroma diagnosed by angiography was found to have unrecognized partially occlusive thrombus by angioscopy. after angioplasty, an intimal tear was identified by angioscopy and ultrasound but it was not seen by angiography. the intravascular ultrasound image showed the tear to extend to the adventitia. in the second case, an apparently smooth intimal surface as imaged by angiography was found by angioscopy and ultrasound to have extensive damage, including subintimal hemorrhage, intimal flaps, and arterial dissection at the angioplasty site. these data suggest that the type of information derived from the three imaging techniques is quite different, and that each may have a specific role in intravascular diagnosis.
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy: atypical presentations. severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death. acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy. this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum. moreover, classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
small-volume resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock in dogs: effects on systemic hemodynamics and systemic blood flow. background and methods: this study compared canine systemic hemodynamics and organ blood flow (radioactive microsphere technique) after resuscitation with 0.8% saline (na+ 137 meq/l), 7.2% hypertonic saline (na+ 1233 meq/l), 20% hydroxyethyl starch in 0.8% saline, or 20% hydroxyethyl starch in 7.2% saline, each in a volume approximating 15% of shed blood volume. twenty-four endotracheally intubated mongrel dogs (18 to 24 kg) underwent a 30-min period of hemorrhagic shock, from time 0 to 30 min into the shock period, followed by fluid resuscitation. data were collected at baseline, 15 min into the shock period, immediately after fluid infusion, 5 min after the beginning of resuscitation, and at 60-min intervals for 2 hr, (65 min after the beginning of resuscitation, and 125 min after the beginning of resuscitation). the animals received one of four randomly assigned iv resuscitation fluids: saline (54 ml/kg), hypertonic saline (6.0 ml/kg), hydroxyethel starch (6.0 ml/kg) or hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch (6.0 ml/kg). results: mean arterial pressure increased in all groups after resuscitation. cardiac output increased with resuscitation in all groups, exceeding baseline in the saline and hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch groups (p less than .05 compared with hypertonic saline or hydroxyethyl starch). sixty-five minutes after the beginning of resuscitation, cardiac output was significantly (p less than .05) greater in either of the two colloid-containing groups than in the hypertonic saline group. after resuscitation, hypertonic saline and hydroxyethyl starch produced minimal improvements in hepatic arterial flow, hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch increased hepatic arterial flow to near baseline levels, and saline markedly increased hepatic arterial flow to levels exceeding baseline (p less than .05, saline vs. hydroxyethyl starch). one hundred twenty-five minutes after the beginning of resuscitation, hepatic arterial flow had decreased in all groups; hepatic arterial flow in the hypertonic saline group had decreased to levels comparable with those during shock. myocardial, renal, and brain blood flow were not significantly different between groups. conclusions: small-volume resuscitation with the combination of hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch is comparable with much larger volumes of 0.8% saline, and is equal to hypertonic saline or hydroxyethyl starch in the ability to restore and sustain bp and improve organ blood flow after resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock.
mri, ct, spect, pet: their use in diagnosing dementia. the differential diagnosis of the dementia syndrome may pose a difficult clinical problem, since the most common dementia, alzheimer's disease (ad), is marked by normal laboratory tests. neuroimaging has played an important role in evaluating the demented patient, and its uses are growing. computed tomography (ct) is useful for excluding reversible and treatable causes of dementia, such as subdural hematoma and tumor. more recently, magnetic resonance imaging (mri) has improved our ability to diagnose vascular disease and may show the presence of cerebral infarcts and white matter disease not visible on ct. single photon emission computed tomography (spect) and positron emission tomography (pet), techniques that visualize such cerebral functions as glucose metabolism and blood flow, may provide positive evidence supportive of the diagnosis of ad.
omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy. transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices. a small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy. such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain, stricture formation, and recurrent hemorrhage. the use of omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients (6 women, 4 men; age range, 27-86 years) with cirrhosis (pbc, 4; sclerosing cholangitis, 2; chronic active liver disease, 2; alcohol, 1; and cryptogenic, 1) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 (range, 8-21) sessions of sclerotherapy. the ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose h2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate. in each case one or more complications had occurred: severe pain in 3, stricture formation in 4, and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases. after an 8-week course of omeprazole, 40 mg daily, endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution. in 2 cases the ulcer recurred, with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient. both cases responded to repeat therapy. these results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers.
the stroke syndrome of striatocapsular infarction. striatocapsular infarction has recently been described as a distinct stroke entity and forms an important subgroup of subcortical infarctions. in a prospective study of 50 consecutive patients over a 10 yr period with this syndrome, clinical and neuropsychological features, pathogenesis and outcome were studied to provide information concerning management and prognosis. the most common clinical presentation was that of a stroke affecting mainly the upper limb with cortical signs such as dysphasia, neglect or dyspraxia. evidence from eeg, angiographic and neuropsychological data supported a vascular/haemodynamic basis for the presence of the acute neuropsychological changes, while the chronic changes were more likely to be due to diaschisis. a study of risk factors and cerebral angiography enabled 4 pathophysiological subgroups to be identified: (1) cardiac emboli to the origin of the middle cerebral artery; (2) severe extra-cranial cranial carotid artery occlusive disease with presumed embolism to the same site and/or involvement of haemodynamic factors; (3) proximal middle cerebral artery abnormalities causing occlusion of multiple lateral striate arteries at their origins; (4) normal angiography where pathogenesis was uncertain. the risk factors of cardiac disease and smoking were significantly increased as compared with age and sex-matched controls with other forms of ischaemic stroke. stroke or vascular death rate was 2.7% per yr during a mean follow-up period of 2.25 yrs. predictors of an excellent recovery with return to normal lifestyle were younger age, only brachial or brachiofacial weakness with absence of cortical signs at presentation and minimal change on angiography. this stroke entity deserves particular recognition in the spectrum of subcortical infarctions because of its specific pathogenesis, distinct neuropsychological features and reasonable prognosis.
detection of loss of heterozygosity in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor specimens by the polymerase chain reaction. a polymerase chain reaction-based procedure was used for the detection of dna length polymorphisms generated by naturally occurring genetic deletions or insertions of known sequence. this method consists of a simple one-step assay that does not require any restriction enzyme analysis or southern blot hybridization, allowing identification in ethidium bromide-stained gels. the procedure described here was used to detect loss of heterozygosity at various loci, including the hbb beta-globin gene cluster, in chemically induced mouse skin tumors, using a variety of tissue preparations, including microdissection of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens, short-term cultures, and fluorescence-activated cell sorting of epithelial populations. this approach may be useful in detecting tumor-specific reduction to homozygosity at polymorphic chromosomal loci, allowing the mapping of putative tumor-suppressor loci involved in carcinogenesis.
percutaneous right brachial artery approach with 5f catheters for studying coronary artery disease. we prospectively studied 60 ischemic patients with 5f catheters (pigtail and amplatz) using the percutaneous right brachial artery approach (group i), in order to compare this technique with two groups of 100 patients each randomly studied by the femoral route with either 5f (group ii) or 8f (group iii) catheters (pigtail and judkins). the following parameters were analyzed: need to change the initially elected catheter diameter or/and artery approach; technical difficulty for obtaining lv, lca, and rca angiograms; total time of x-ray exposure; quality image of lv, lca, and rca angiograms; incidence of arterial puncture related hematomas or total arterial occlusion; and duration of local compression after sheath removal. there were no differences between 5f brachial and femoral approaches except for the arterial compression time (p less than 0.01) and the x-ray exposure time (p = 0.03) which were longer with the brachial approach. whatever the route used, 5f showed a mild increase difficulty (brachial p = 0.001; femoral p = 0.01) and a mild decreased quality image for lca (branchial p = 0.006; femoral p less than 0.05). mild hematomas were more frequent with 8f catheters (p less than 0.05). the procedure could be completed by the elected first artery and type of catheter (5f or 8f) in 57/60 patients in group i, in 95/100 in group ii, and in 96/100 in group iii (nonsignificant differences). thus, the percutaneous right brachial artery approach using 5f catheters is similar to the femoral artery approach with the same catheters. although both of them showed a mild increased technical difficulty and a mild decreased quality image compared to 8f, mainly for lca angiograms, they allowed complete and reliable angiograms reading and analysis.
cholesterol cysts of the temporal bone: diagnosis and treatment. cholesterol cyst (or granuloma) of the temporal bone, a recognized clinical entity distinct from cholesteatoma, is more common than previously thought. apparently it is caused by obstruction of previously pneumatized temporal bone air cells. surgical cure is achieved by drainage and reestablishment of normal pneumatization. this paper reviews 14 cholesterol cysts of the temporal bone, emphasizing the importance of preoperative imaging and surgical approach. use of magnetic resonance imaging differentiates cholesterol cysts from cholesteatoma or other neoplasms. computed tomography delineates the location of the lesion and defines temporal bone anatomy essential to surgical approach. the two studies together allow the surgeon to properly plan drainage, as in the case of a cholesterol cyst, versus excision or exteriorization, as in the case of cholesteatoma. the infralabyrinthine approach to a petrous apex cholesterol cyst is the procedure of choice when hearing preservation is desired.
brain tumors. recent advances in experimental tumor biology are being applied to critical clinical problems of primary brain tumors. the expression of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, which are sparse in normal brain, is increased as much as 20-fold in brain tumors. experimental studies show promise in using labeled ligands to these receptors to identify the outer margins of malignant brain tumors. whereas positron emission tomography has improved the dynamic understanding of tumors, the labeled selective tumor receptors with positron emitters will enhance the ability to specifically diagnose and greatly aid in the pretreatment planning for tumors. modulation of these receptors will also affect tumor growth and metabolism. novel methods to deliver antitumor agents to the brain and new approaches using biologic response modifiers also hold promise to further improve the management of brain tumors.
rediscovering tactile agnosia. eighty-four patients with damage to various levels of the nervous system, ranging from the peripheral nerves to the cerebral cortex, underwent somesthetic assessment in order to determine the degree to which basic and complex perceptual and motor disorders affect tactile object recognition (tor) and to determine whether tor can be impaired in the absence of more basic sensorimotor imperception. the results suggest that (1) basic and intermediate disorders of somesthetic function impair tor but are commensurately more severe for any given degree of tor impairment in patients with peripheral lesions than in patients with cortical lesions; (2) neither hemiparesis nor hemianopia alone precludes normal tor; (3) hemineglect contributes substantially to tor impairment; (4) impairment of tor can occur in the absence of more basic somesthetic dysfunction and constitutes tactile agnosia; (5) tactile agnosia is a subtle, nondisabling disorder that should be distinguished from the nonagnosic, severe and disabling disorder, astereognosis; and (6) tactile agnosia results from unilateral damage to parietotemporal cortices, possibly including the second somatosensory cortex, in either hemisphere.
cancer mortality in workers exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin background. in both animal and epidemiologic studies, exposure to dioxin (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, or tcdd) has been associated with an increased risk of cancer. methods. we conducted a retrospective cohort study of mortality among the 5172 workers at 12 plants in the united states that produced chemicals contaminated with tcdd. occupational exposure was documented by reviewing job descriptions and by measuring tcdd in serum from a sample of 253 workers. causes of death were taken from death certificates. results. mortality from several cancers previously associated with tcdd (stomach, liver, and nasal cancers, hodgkin's disease, and non-hodgkin's lymphoma) was not significantly elevated in this cohort. mortality from soft-tissue sarcoma was increased, but not significantly (4 deaths; standardized mortality ratio [smr], 338; 95 percent confidence interval, 92 to 865). in the subcohort of 1520 workers with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or equal to 20 years of latency, however, mortality was significantly increased for soft-tissue sarcoma (3 deaths; smr, 922; 95 percent confidence interval, 190 to 2695) and for cancers of the respiratory system (smr, 142; 95 percent confidence interval, 103 to 192). mortality from all cancers combined was slightly but significantly elevated in the overall cohort (smr, 115; 95 percent confidence interval, 102 to 130) and was higher in the subcohort with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or equal to 20 years of latency (smr, 146; 95 percent confidence interval, 121 to 176). conclusions. this study of mortality among workers with occupational exposure to tcdd does not confirm the high relative risks reported for many cancers in previous studies. conclusions about an increase in the risk of soft-tissue sarcoma are limited by small numbers and misclassification on death certificates. excess mortality from all cancers combined, cancers of the respiratory tract, and soft-tissue sarcoma may result from exposure to tcdd, although we cannot exclude the possible contribution of factors such as smoking and occupational exposure to other chemicals.
restricted heterogeneity of t lymphocytes in combined immunodeficiency with hypereosinophilia (omenn's syndrome). we report the immunological characteristics of five patients with omenn's syndrome, a rare inherited immunodeficiency also known as combined immunodeficiency with hypereosinophilia. the syndrome is characterized by t cell infiltration of skin, gut, liver, and spleen leading to diffuse erythroderma, protracted diarrhea, failure to thrive, and hepatosplenomegaly. blood t cells as well as those infiltrating the skin and gut were found to express activation markers and were partially activated by mitogens but not by antigens. although the lesions resembled those in graft-versus-host disease, the blood t cells were shown by dna haplotype analysis using probes revealing variable number of tandem repeats to belong to the patients as well as the t cells infiltrating the gut and skin in one patient. a given t cell subset (tcr alpha beta+, cd4+/cd8+, or tcr gamma delta+) was predominant in each patient, with a specific distribution in the skin lesions. moreover, the study of t cell receptor beta, gamma, and delta gene rearrangements in four patients revealed oligoclonality involving c beta 1, c beta 2, or different v gamma j gamma or v delta j delta genes. this indicates that restricted heterogeneity of the t cell repertoire, previously reported in one case, is a major feature of this syndrome. the occurrence of alymphocytosis-type severe combined immunodeficiency in the brother of one of the patients suggests that the restricted heterogeneity of t cell receptor gene usage in omenn's syndrome may arise from leakiness, within the context of a genetically determined faulty t cell differentiation.
maternal feeding behavior and child acceptance of food during diarrhea, convalescence, and health in the central sierra of peru. feeding patterns by mothers and child acceptance of food were measured in a peruvian village to determine changes on days when children had diarrhea as compared to days of convalescence and health. morbidity surveillance identified 40 children, aged 4-36 months, with diarrhea. children were followed using twelve-hour in-home structured observations during two to four days each of diarrhea, convalescence, and health. using scales of maternal encouragement to eat and child acceptance of food and cumulative logistic regression analyses, maternal encouragement to eat decreased significantly during convalescence compared to diarrheal days (or: 0.54, 90% ci: 0.35, 0.82) and health compared to diarrhea (or: 0.65, 90% ci: 0.46, 0.93). in contrast, child acceptance of food increased during health compared to diarrhea (or: 1.55, 90% ci: 1.02, 2.35). results illustrate the importance of carefully examining the behavioral aspects of nutritional intake. decreases in intake during diarrhea are due to anorexia and not withdrawal of food by mothers. in response to reductions in child appetite during illness, mothers are more likely to encourage children to eat, while they tend to become more passive feeders after the diarrhea has stopped. program efforts should focus on messages to feed children more actively especially after diarrhea episodes, when appetite levels increase.
crohn's disease in the city of derby, 1951-85. an epidemiological survey of crohn's disease in the city of derby showed that the incidence of the condition increased from 0.7/10(5) per year between 1951 and 1955 to 6.67/10(5) per year between 1981 and 1985 but seemed to reach a plateau between 1976 and 1985. large bowel crohn's disease was more common in patients presenting aged 60-79 years than in those aged 20-39 years. the increase in incidence was not solely due to the detection of milder disease. there was no evidence that the asian (indian subcontinent) population of derby was resistant to the development of crohn's disease.
tongue ischemia from a soft-drink can: report of case. a young girl was brought to the emergency department because her tongue became entrapped while she was drinking from an aluminum soft-drink can. a dental drill was used to remove the can. the tongue was observed for 48 hours, during which an ischemic area recovered spontaneously.
cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem component. a report of seven cases. seven patients had a cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem femoral component. four patients died in the operating room, and three patients were successfully resuscitated. when the three survivors were eventually discharged from the hospital, they had no known permanent cardiac, pulmonary, or neurological sequelae. factors that were common to all of the patients were advanced age, osteoporotic bone, a previously undisturbed intramedullary canal, and use of a long-stem femoral component and several batches of methylmethacrylate. hip arthroplasty with a long-stem femoral component is associated with substantial risk in these patients. excessive pressurization of cement should be avoided, and invasive hemodynamic monitoring should be used when the described conditions are present.
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children. islet cell dysmaturation syndrome (icds) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia, pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis. eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy. seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants. six patients had nesidioblastosis, four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells. four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation (90 to 95 per cent resection). four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively. three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection. none have required reoperation or postoperative medications. all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications. five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment, with three having severe retardation; all showed some improvement postoperatively, but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination. early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds.
acute lobar atelectasis. a comparison of two chest physiotherapy regimens. fourteen cases of acute lobar atelectasis were alternately allocated to one of two chest physiotherapy regimens for treatment. treatment in group 1 comprised positioning, vibrations, hyperinflation, and suction, and in group 2, treatment consisted of hyperinflation and suction alone. treatment in either group was given hourly for six hours. patients in group 1 had a significantly higher mean percentage resolution of their atelectasis (mean value, 60.1 percent), as seen on chest roentgenogram, after one treatment intervention than patients in group 2 (mean value, 7.6 percent; p less than .006). after the intensive six-hour treatment period, the difference between the groups was marginally statistically significant, still favoring group 1 over group 2 (p less than .055). follow-up roentgenograms at 24 and 48 hours revealed no significant difference between the treatment groups (p greater than .10 and greater than .20, respectively). these results suggest that, at least initially in the course of acute lobar atelectasis, positioning and vibrations add to the efficacy of a treatment of hyperinflation and suction alone.
percent tumor necrosis as a predictor of treatment response in canine osteosarcoma. the percent tumor necrosis was determined in 200 dogs with spontaneously occurring osteosarcoma. one hundred dogs had no treatment before amputation or death. one hundred other dogs were treated with either radiation therapy alone (n = 23), intraarterial (ia) cisplatin alone (n = 16), intravenous (iv) cisplatin alone (n = 6), radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin (n = 47), or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin (n = 8). eighty-nine of these 100 dogs had their tumors resected 3 weeks after the end of therapy (6 weeks after the initiation of therapy) and replaced with a cortical bone allograft. dogs with preoperative treatment were evaluated for local tumor control and time to metastasis. the mean percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma was 26.8%. the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation only, ia cisplatin only, and iv cisplatin only was 81.6%, 49.1% and 23.8%, respectively. the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin was 83.7% and 78.2%, respectively. there was no significant difference between percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma compared with those receiving iv cisplatin, but there was a significant increase in percent tumor necrosis with all other treatments. a mathematic model for the effect of cisplatin and radiation dose was developed using multiple regression analysis. the radiation dose calculated to cause at least 80% tumor necrosis was 42.2 gy (95% confidence interval [ci], 38.0 to 47.6 gy) when radiation was given alone and 28.1 gy (95% ci, 21.3 to 36.6 gy) when radiation was combined with ia cisplatin. areas of viable tumor tended to be most frequent adjacent to the articular cartilage and in the joint capsule. percent tumor necrosis was strongly predictive for local tumor control; 28 of 32 dogs with greater than 80% tumor necrosis had local control, and only eight of 29 dogs with less than 79% tumor necrosis had local control (p = 0.0047). there was no correlation between percent tumor necrosis and time to metastasis.
early postoperative mortality following hysterectomy. a danish population based study, 1977-1981. the main objective of this cohort study was to analyse the early postoperative mortality after 'simple' hysterectomy for benign indications and to compare it with that of a randomly selected reference group of women matched for age. registry data covering the entire danish female population were used. included in the study were all patients operated in the period 1977-1981. patients were only included if no cancer was diagnosed and if no major co-surgery was performed (29,192 patients). cancer patients were also excluded in the reference group (16,182 women). mortality was studied according to characteristics of patients, their residential area, the surgical approach and operating hospital. overall 47 patients died within 30 days of admission for hysterectomy (overall mortality 16.1 per 10,000). only seven deaths were expected on the basis of the population sample, and adjusted for age, the relative risk (rr) for hysterectomy patients was 6.38 (95% ci 4.33-9.39). early postoperative mortality increased with age, and the risk was elevated among emergency patients (rr = 3.22; 1.72-6.04). patients with more than one diagnosis at discharge (rr = 4.53; 2.12-9.70) were at high risk, but early postoperative mortality was independent of surgical approach. causes of death are discussed. compared to the general population, patients who undergo 'simple' hysterectomy are faced with a sixfold risk of dying within 30 days, but a complete assessment of the risks and benefits of hysterectomy requires prospective studies of survival and morbidity, including quality of life for longer periods of time following operations.
trans-activation of genes encoding activation-associated human t lymphocyte surface proteins by murine retroviral sequences. the mechanisms whereby rna leukemia viruses cause t lymphocyte leukemias or lymphomas after a long latent period are not understood. we report here that infection of human t lymphocyte lines with a murine leukemia virus results in up-regulation of a number of lymphocyte-specific cell surface ag. these proteins include cd2, cd3, cd4, the tcr, and mhc class i ag. the expression of other cell surface proteins, such as lfa-3, are unaffected by the presence of the retrovirus. this up-regulation occurs at the level of the mrna transcripts encoding these proteins, and is the result of increased transcription of the respective genes. the increases in transcription are the result of a trans-activation process by the leukemia virus. the transient introduction of chimeric genes consisting of mhc class i gene promoter sequences attached to the reporter gene cat into human t cells containing murine retrovirus produces stimulated transcription of the reporter gene. subgenomic portions of the murine leukemia virus containing the long terminal repeats and the 5' untranslated region are sufficient to produce transactivation of the same set of t cell genes as the whole leukemia virus. the finding that murine leukemia viruses enhance transcription and expression of a group of t cell surface proteins, all of which have been reported to be capable of transducing an activating signal to the lymphocyte, may be relevant to the pathophysiologic mechanisms whereby these viruses induce leukemias and lymphomas.
pattern of urological malignancy in zambia. a hospital-based histopathological study. the pattern of urological malignancy among the indigenous population of zambia (determined on the basis of histopathological reports from a major national hospital during an 8-year period) is presented. a total of 6514 malignancies were observed, of which 784 (12%) were of urological origin. bladder carcinoma, predominantly squamous type, was the commonest urological tumour (51%), followed by carcinoma of the prostate (26%), carcinoma of the penis (18%), renal tumours (4.3%) and testicular malignancy (0.7%). in nearly 32% of the bladder tumours, bilharzial ova were demonstrated histopathologically. nephroblastoma accounted for 70% of the renal tumours and from a total of 7 cases of testicular tumours 5 were embryonal carcinoma and 2 seminoma. a brief reference is made to the pattern and aetiology of urological malignancies in some neighbouring countries.
progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head. a patient with localized scleroderma of the head, uveitis, and raynaud's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures, spastic hemiparesis, and local igg production in the cerebrospinal fluid. magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin.
edrophonium provocative test in noncardiac chest pain. evaluation of testing techniques. edrophonium chloride is used frequently as a provocative agent in the assessment of noncardiac chest pain (nccp). however, the optimum dose and most appropriate method of interpreting test results is controversial. we studied 150 consecutive nccp patients and 50 age-matched controls who alternately received either 80 micrograms/kg or 10 mg intravenous bolus doses of edrophonium preceded by saline placebo injections. distal esophageal pressures were measured before and after drug injection in response to ten 5-cc wet swallows. following 10 mg of edrophonium, 33% of patients and 4% of controls reported chest pain, while 29% of patients and no controls receiving the 80 micrograms/kg dose complained of chest pain. amplitude changes after either dose were not significantly different for all comparisons, but the duration of response did distinguish the two doses in patients with chest pain. a significantly greater (p = 0.01) increase in distal contraction duration occurred after 10 mg (74 +/- 12%; +/- se) compared to 80 micrograms/kg dose (43 +/- 6%). however, individual responses to the two doses overlapped considerably. if a positive test is redefined to include both chest pain and manometric changes that are significantly different from controls, the positivity rate changes drastically; 33% to 9% in the 10-mg group and 30% to 3% in the 80-micrograms/kg group. side effects were similar between doses, but there was a significant (p = 0.02) linear relationship between intensity of side effects and the edrophonium dose per kilogram of body weight.
dissociation between systemic and mucosal humoral immune responses in coeliac disease. we examined humoral immunity in coeliac disease as expressed in serum (systemic immunity), and in saliva, jejunal aspirate, and whole gut lavage fluid (mucosal immunity). the aims were to define features of the secretory immune response (iga and igm concentrations and antibody values to gliadin and other food proteins measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (elisa)) in active disease and remission, and to establish whether secretions obtained by relatively non-invasive techniques (saliva and gut lavage fluid) can be used for indirect measurements of events in the jejunum. serum, saliva, and jejunal aspirate from 26 adults with untreated coeliac disease, 22 treated patients, and 28 immunologically normal control subjects were studied, together with intestinal secretions obtained by gut lavage from 15 untreated and 19 treated patients with coeliac disease and 25 control subjects. jejunal aspirate iga and igm and gut lavage fluid igm concentrations were significantly raised in patients with untreated coeliac disease; the lavage fluid igm concentration remained higher in patients with treated coeliac disease than in controls. serum and salivary immunoglobulin concentrations were similar in the three groups. patients with untreated coeliac disease had higher values of antibodies to gliadin compared with treated patients and control subjects in all body fluids tested; these were predominantly of iga and igg classes in serum, and of iga and igm classes in jejunal aspirate and gut lavage fluid. values of salivary iga antibodies to gliadin were significantly higher in untreated coeliacs, though antibody values were generally low, with a large overlap between coeliac disease patients and control subjects.
laryngeal framework reconstruction with miniplates. defects of the laryngeal framework after trauma, cancer, and thyroplasty have been reconstructed with mini-reconstruction plates. six patients had miniplates used to repair the thyroid cartilage defect after type i thyroplasty to prevent lateralization of the silastic implant; three patients had miniplates used after hemilaryngectomy to bridge the thyroid cartilage remnants, resulting in better deglutition after hemilaryngectomy; and three patients had miniplates used to repair laryngeal fractures. the plates were tolerated well by the patients; there were no major complications. rigid fixation using miniplates for laryngeal reconstruction has unique advantages over the use of wires. it offers the advantages of rigid and immediate stabilization with the ability to bridge large defects. it can be an alternative to existing techniques of laryngeal reconstruction.
growth hormone for short stature not due to classic growth hormone deficiency. the advent of recombinant dna technology has resulted in potentially unlimited supplies of growth hormone. sufficient quantities are now available not only for the long-term, uninterrupted treatment of gh-deficient children but potentially for the treatment of non-gh-deficient patients with other short stature or growth attenuating disorders. short-term studies have demonstrated an improvement in the growth rates of subjects with isolated short stature, turner syndrome, and chronic renal failure; and additional studies are under way to assess the efficacy of gh therapy of other short stature syndromes. however, the long-term efficacy and possible adverse effects of gh treatment in these situations is not known. until there has been more experience, gh deficiency should remain the primary indication for gh treatment. growth hormone should not be considered routine therapy for other conditions associated with or resulting in short stature. however, research should continue in these areas to define which children may benefit from gh treatment.
chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease. chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease may be caused by infections, emphysema, cystic fibrosis, lung cancer, sarcoidosis and rheumatologic syndromes. the diagnostic evaluation includes a complete history, a physical examination, a chest radiograph, and sputum examination and culture. in some cases, computed tomographic scanning and biopsy are required.
pharmacologic stress imaging. pharmacologic stress imaging has increasingly been employed as an alternative to exercise imaging for detection of coronary artery disease and risk stratification particularly in patients who are unable to perform adequate exercise. sensitivity and specificity of thallium 201 scintigraphy using intravenous dipyridamole infusion as a stress for coronary artery disease detection average 85% and 91%, respectively. dipyridamole imaging is also useful for differentiating between ischemia and scar and identifying patients who have an increased risk for subsequent cardiac events. dipyridamole imaging is particularly useful for preoperative risk stratification in patients undergoing surgery for peripheral vascular or aortic disease. dipyridamole imaging is also useful for identifying residual myocardial ischemia after myocardial infarction and detecting restenosis after coronary angioplasty. adverse side effects of dipyridamole are promptly reversed by aminophylline. dipyridamole stress can also be employed in association with echocardiography for detection of ischemia-induced regional wall motion abnormalities.
transoesophageal echocardiography in the longitudinal axis: correlation between anatomy and images and its clinical implications. transoesophageal echocardiographic imaging in the longitudinal axis is a recent addition to the non-invasive evaluation of congenital and acquired heart disease. the technique provides unique images of intracardiac anatomy but their interpretation remains difficult. a heart specimen was therefore cut according to the echocardiographic imaging planes to elucidate the morphological details. the results suggested that longitudinal transoesophageal imaging complements the transverse axis approach. it gave new imaging information on the right ventricular outflow tract and the pulmonary trunk, the atrioventricular valves, the interventricular septum, the cardiac apex, and the thoracic aorta. in particular, it showed the entire length of the right ventricular outflow tract. when longitudinal imaging was used in combination with transverse imaging almost all the thoracic aorta could be examined. imaging in the longitudinal axis may also allow better assessment of the mechanisms of atrioventricular valve regurgitation.
a recurrent pelvic desmoid tumor successfully treated with tamoxifen. a case of recurrent retroperitoneal desmoid tumor successfully treated with tamoxifen (nolvadex tablets, ici pharma, division of ici americas, wilmington, de) is reported. the patient presented late in her second pregnancy with a large retroperitoneal pelvic desmoid tumor that was treated with surgical excision and megestrol acetate. when the tumor recurred 12 months later, it was again treated with surgery, this time followed by radiation therapy. the desmoid tumor quickly recurred. the patient was then treated with tamoxifen, resulting in a complete tumor regression that has remained stable for 27 months. tamoxifen should be considered as first-line therapy in recurrent desmoid tumors.
delayed facial nerve palsy after temporal lobectomy for epilepsy: report of four cases and discussion of possible mechanisms. four cases of idiopathic peripheral facial nerve palsy were documented after 110 consecutive resections of the temporal lobe for intractable epilepsy. in 3 of the 4 cases, the palsy was ipsilateral to the side of the temporal lobectomy. the onset of facial weakness was delayed 7 to 13 days after surgery (mean, 9.7 days). one patient underwent facial electroneurography, which documented 17% of normal facial motor function at the height of his weakness and the absence of the acoustic stapedius reflex. all patients were treated with prednisone (60-80 mg per day by mouth for 10-14 days, tapering off throughout the subsequent week). facial function recovered fully in all patients within 6 to 8 weeks. possible mechanisms are discussed, including heat and/or mechanical trauma to the facial nerve near the geniculate ganglion during resection of mesial temporal lobe structures.
fascinating rhythm: a primer on chaos theory and its application to cardiology. nonlinear dynamics is an exciting new way of looking at peculiarities that in the past have been ignored or explained away. we have attempted to give a general introduction to the basics of the mathematics, applications to cardiology, and a brief review of the new tools needed to use the concepts of nonlinear mathematics. the careful mathematical approach to problems in cardiac electrical dynamics and blood flow is opening a window on behaviors and mechanisms previously inaccessible.
enhanced chemiluminescence as a measure of oxygen-derived free radical generation during ischemia and reperfusion. it has been suggested that oxygen-derived free radicals may contribute to the myocardial injury associated with ischemia and reperfusion. as the presence of enhanced free radical generation is a prerequisite for such damage, several techniques have been used to provide evidence of increased oxygen free radical production during reperfusion; however, all such techniques have substantial limitations. in this study, we used enhanced chemiluminescence to evaluate oxygen free radical generation during ischemia and reperfusion in the isolated langendorff-perfused rat heart. the chemiluminescent technique, which has high sensitivity and can monitor radical generation continuously, avoids some of the limitations of earlier methods. chemiluminescence (expressed as counts per second) decreased from 219 +/- 11 at baseline to 142 +/- 9 during ischemia and markedly increased to a peak of 476 +/- 36 during the first 3-5 minutes of reperfusion. this was followed by a slow decline over 11-16 minutes to a steady-state level of 253 +/- 14 (each sequential change in chemiluminescence was highly significant; p less than 0.001). superoxide dismutase (2,000 units/min) significantly decreased peak reperfusion chemiluminescence to 316 +/- 17 (p less than 0.01). hearts subjected to a second period of ischemia and reperfusion had a higher peak chemiluminescence (626 +/- 62), which also was significantly attenuated by 1,000 units/min superoxide dismutase (398 +/- 16; p less than 0.01).
the severity of coronary atherosclerosis at sites of plaque rupture with occlusive thrombosis. atherosclerotic plaque rupture with superimposed thrombosis is recognized as the lesion causing greater than 90% of acute myocardial infarctions. to determine the severity of atherosclerosis at the site of plaque rupture, 184 coronary arteries from autopsies of 162 patients who died of acute myocardial infarction were studied. there were 102 men, 72 +/- 10 years old (mean +/- sd), and 60 women, 75 +/- 8 years old. all arteries were dissected from the heart, fixed, decalcified, cut at 2 to 3 mm intervals and processed routinely for histologic examination. a planimeter was used to measure artery, plaque, thrombus and luminal cross-sectional area at the site of plaque rupture with thrombosis in sections projected at x13.8 magnification. at the site of atherosclerotic plaque rupture with superimposed thrombosis, the degree of stenosis due to plaque was: 90 +/- 7% for the right (n = 67), 91 +/- 6% for the left anterior descending (n = 79) and 91 +/- 6% for the left circumflex (n = 38) coronary arteries. plaque rupture in fatal acute myocardial infarction occurs at sites of severe narrowing (mean 91%, range 67% to 99%). thus, plaque rupture with thrombosis is unlikely to cause the fatal acute myocardial infarction in patients with mild to moderate coronary stenosis.
quantitative analysis of antibody localization in human metastatic colon cancer: a phase i study of monoclonal antibody a33. a33 is a mouse immunoglobulin g2a (igg2a) monoclonal antibody (mab) that detects a heat-stable, protease- and neuraminidase-resistant epitope. the antigen is homogeneously expressed by virtually all colon cancers and in the colon mucosa but not other epithelial tissues. the biodistribution and imaging characteristics of iodine-131 (131i)-maba33 were studied in colorectal carcinoma patients with hepatic metastases. antibody labeled with 2 to 5 mci of 131i was administered intravenously (iv) 7 to 8 days before surgery at five dose levels, ranging from 0.2 mg to 50 mg, with three or more patients entered at each dose level. in addition, three patients received 2 mg 131i-mabta99 (an isotype-matched control mab) together with 125i-maba33. evaluation included whole-body imaging with a gamma camera, technetium-99 (99mtc)-human serum albumin blood pool scans, liver/spleen scans, abdominal computed tomographic (ct) scans, hepatic arteriograms, antibody pharmacokinetics, and assessment of antibody distribution in biopsied malignant and normal tissues. selective maba33 localization to tumor tissue was demonstrated in 19 of 20 patients, and external imaging correlated with surgical inspection, pathologic examination, and tissue radioactivity. one week after antibody administration, tumor:liver ratios ranged from 6.9:1 to 100:1 and tumor:serum ratios from 4.1:1 to 25.2:1. 99mtc-albumin blood pool studies showed that liver metastases were hypovascular, emphasizing the selective localization of maba33 despite poor tumor-blood flow. control mabta99 studies showed maba33 localization was antigen-specific; tumor:liver ratios were 2.3- to 45-fold higher for specific antibody. in metastatic lesions, radioisotope was localized primarily in the viable periphery; however, even the necrotic tumor core concentrated specific antibody. external imaging showed isotope visualization in some patients' large bowel; whether this represents specific antibody uptake or gastric iodine secretion is unclear.
flow cytometric determination of breast tumor heterogeneity. flow cytometric analysis was done on the dna content of nuclei obtained from different sites of small breast tumors. although specimens for analysis were obtained within a few millimeters of each other, dramatic differences were occasionally observed in the dna histograms. in a limited study involving 141 consecutive breast specimens submitted for flow cytometry, 52% (74) were found to have at least one dna aneuploid population. in 18% of dna aneuploid tumors, one or more specimens from areas grossly identified as tumor had no dna aneuploid population. because of the proposed correlation of aneuploidy with a poorer prognosis and possible responsiveness to chemotherapy, multiple sites should be assayed when flow cytometric dna analysis is done.
pneumomediastinum, pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema following the measurement of maximal expiratory pressure in a normal subject. mediastinal and subcutaneous emphysema have been reported as a consequence of deliberate manipulations of the breathing pattern producing a valsalva-like maneuver in healthy subjects. we present a case of pneumomediastinum, pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema occurring in a normal volunteer after repeated measurements of the pemax.
predicting failure following shunting of pleural effusions. we placed 43 shunts in 34 patients in five years. twenty-four had malignant effusions and ten had benign effusions. thirty-one patients had unilateral shunts, three had bilateral shunts and six required revisions for shunt failure. two patients died after shunt placement from disease progression. of the nine patients who experienced poor results, one was noncompliant in operating the shunt and eight had occluded shunts. in the 30 patients, who were compliant and had adequate length of follow-up, five had excellent results, 12 had good results, and five had fair results. two of the patients with occluded shunts had good results after shunt revision; 24 patients had some symptomatic relief with shunting. evaluation of factors including a history of prior abdominal surgery, performance status, and pleural fluid cell counts, differential, chemistries, and cytology revealed no significant differences between the patients who experienced shunt failure and those who had patent shunts. shunting of pleural effusions is well tolerated and has good success rates in properly selected patients.
role of epidermal growth factor, prostaglandin, and sulfhydryls in stress-induced gastric lesions. epidermal growth factor promotes the growth of and protects gastric mucosa against various ulcerogens, including stress, but little is known about its role in the pathogenesis of stress ulcerations. in this study, wistar rats with intact and resected salivary glands were exposed to water-immersion and restraint stress. during 2-14 hours of water-immersion restraint stress, the formation of gastric ulcerations increased progressively and the duration of stress was accompanied by a decrease in dna synthesis in the gastric mucosa. following sialoadenectomy, a significant increase in the number of stress ulcerations and further reduction in dna synthesis were observed. exogenous epidermal growth factor and dimethyl prostaglandin e2 significantly reduced the ulcerations in the stressed rats with intact salivary glands, but this reduction was significantly less pronounced after sialoadenectomy. water-immersion restraint stress also resulted in about 50% reduction in mucosal prostaglandin e2 generation, and the pretreatment with indomethacin, which suppressed prostaglandin e2 by about 90%, almost doubled the number of stress ulcerations and abolished the gastro-protective effect of exogenous epidermal growth factor (but not dimethyl prostaglandin e2) against the stress lesions. an inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity by difluoromethyl ornithine also augmented stress-induced ulcerogenesis and abolished the protective action of epidermal growth factor while the administration of spermine almost completely prevented stress ulcerations in rats both without and with pretreatment with difluoromethylornithine. water-immersion restraint stress also significantly reduced mucosal content of glutathione. cysteamine increased tissue glutathione and reduced stress ulcerations but n-ethylmaleimide, an sulfhydryl blocker, decreased mucosal content of glutathione without affecting the stress ulcerations. this study indicates that the stress ulcers are accompanied by the reduction in mucosal synthesis of dna, prostaglandin, and glutathione and that the presence of salivary glands attenuates the stress ulcerogenesis probably by releasing epidermal growth factor which acts, in part, by enhancing ornithine decarboxylase activity, mucosal growth, and prostaglandin and glutathione formation.
11 beta-hydroxylase deficiency in hyperandrogenism. objective: to determine the 11-deoxycortisol (s) response and incidence of 11 beta-hydroxylase deficiency in hyperandrogenism. design: hyperandrogenic women prospectively and consecutively underwent acute adrenal stimulation studies. setting: tertiary institution. patients: two hundred sixty women complaining of hirsutism and/or hyperandrogenic oligomenorrhea were studied, excluding five unrelated families (1.9% of total) suffering from 21-hydroxylase deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia. forty-one healthy premenopausal eumenorrheic women served as controls. main outcome measures: only two unrelated women (0.8%) had a poststimulation or net increment s level value greater than or equal to threefold the upper 95th percentile of controls and were presumed to suffer from 11 beta-hydroxylase deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia. one hundred nine (42%) of hyperandrogenic women had at least one s value above the 95th percentile of controls. these women also demonstrated higher basal (f0) and stimulated cortisol levels, but a similar increment compared with controls. results: patients with high s measures had higher testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, and androstenedione levels, but similar luteinizing hormone/follicle-stimulating hormone ratios, than hyperandrogenic cohorts with no abnormal s measures. basal values of s (s0), f0, or s0/f0 were not useful to predict an abnormal s response to stimulation. conclusions: although adrenocortical hyperactivity was present in 42% of our hyperandrogenic patients, only 0.8% were presumed to suffer from 11 beta-hydroxylase deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia. a systemic search for this deficiency in hyperandrogenism is probably unwarranted.
the association of hydrocephalus with intramedullary spinal cord tumors: a series of 25 patients. 171 patients with intramedullary spinal cord tumors were operated on, of which 25 patients (15%), mostly children, developed symptomatic hydrocephalus. twenty patients (12%) had malignant tumors, with 13 of the 20 cases (63%) complicated by increased intracranial pressure and ventriculomegaly. of the remaining 151 patients with benign tumors (89%), only 12 (8%) developed symptomatic hydrocephalus. in an effort to understand the relationship between hydrocephalus and intramedullary spinal cord tumor, the authors analyze the level and histology of the neoplasm, as well as its association with spinal cysts. a review of the neurosurgical literature reveals that 34 similar cases of hydrocephalus associated with intramedullary spinal cord tumors have been reported to date. the authors note that the presence of hydrocephalus in patients with malignant intramedullary astrocytomas is associated with a shorter rate of survival than in those patients with high-grade lesions but without hydrocephalus, apparently due to rapid tumor progression. the ventriculomegaly seen with benign spinal cord gliomas has no statistically significant effect upon long-term prognosis.
uterine rupture. uterine rupture is a sudden, unforeseeable event that carries a high rate of maternal and perinatal mortality. when the diagnosis of uterine rupture is suspected, prompt surgical intervention with an experienced pelvic surgeon and blood product replacement should be considered. at the time of uterine rupture, the patient should be evaluated for possible repair or hysterectomy. it appears, based on the aforementioned information, that repair is a reasonable consideration. in those patients who have undergone a repair, early delivery by elective cesarean after assessment of fetal lung maturity at or around 36 weeks gestation would appear prudent. in those patients with a prior cesarean, continuous electronic fetal monitoring to detect intrapartum fetal distress would appear prudent. in these patients fetal distress is the most common sign or symptom of uterine rupture and frequently precedes any other clinical manifestations of this complication.
a randomized trial of the effect of three non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents in ameliorating cancer-induced fever. paraneoplastic fever is well known, and is not an uncommon problem in daily practice. in an effort to ameliorate tumour-induced fever we randomized 48 patients to receive three different non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs: naproxen (500 mg d-1), indomethacin (75 mg d-1) or diclophenac sodium (75 mg d-1). all patients had solid tumours, and microbial infection had been excluded. all three drugs were equally effective in bringing the temperature down to normal for a period of 30-33 d. naproxen had the most rapid effect. in cases of fever relapse with the first drug, when the other two drugs were given instead, both proved equally effective. no side-effects were observed. we conclude that naproxen, indomethacin and diclophenac sodium are equally effective in ameliorating paraneoplastic fever. in relapse, a second drug given subsequently can be effective as well.
hyperplastic polyps seen at sigmoidoscopy are markers for additional adenomas seen at colonoscopy. asymptomatic individuals undergoing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy were prospectively studied. polyps were found in 185 subjects. the endoscopist recorded an opinion on the polyps' histology based on endoscopic appearance. no polyps were removed at sigmoidoscopy. all subjects with rectosigmoid polyps then underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy. of them, 99 subjects (54%) had at least one rectosigmoid adenoma, 69 (37%) had only hyperplastic polyps, and 17 (9%) had other findings. the endoscopists' opinion of the histopathology of polyps at sigmoidoscopy was correct for 61% of the lesions. of subjects with adenomatous rectosigmoid polyps, 29% had additional adenomas at more proximal sites. proximal adenomas were found in 28% of patients with hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps. patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps had the same risk for additional proximal adenomas as patients with rectosigmoid adenomatous polyps.
multiple cranial nerve deficits after ethylene glycol poisoning. we report the cases of two patients who developed cranial nerve palsies after drinking ethylene glycol. a 33-year-old man developed multiple cranial nerve deficits nine days after the ingestion of ethylene glycol in a suicide attempt. clinical findings included profound bilateral cranial nerve vii palsies and severe dysfunction of cranial nerves ix and x. the neuropathy occurred despite treatment with hemodialysis. the dysphagia completely cleared within two weeks, but at six months a severe bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction persisted. a 22-year-old man undergoing hemodialysis for ethylene glycol-induced renal failure developed bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction 14 days after ingestion. at a three-month follow-up, the patient demonstrated only moderate functional recovery. the etiology of the cranial nerve deficits is unknown but may be related to oxalate crystal deposition of ethylene glycol-induced pyridoxine dysfunction.
wegener's granulomatosis presenting as temporal arteritis. a granulomatous giant cell vasculitis of the temporal artery was observed in a biopsy specimen from a patient with corresponding clinical symptoms. within weeks, the new onset of pulmonary infiltrates and renal failure prompted biopsy of the patient's kidney. a necrotizing glomerulonephritis, compatible with a diagnosis of wegener's granulomatosis, was present. vasculitis of the temporal artery may be a feature of wegener's granulomatosis.
beneficial effects of colestipol-niacin on coronary atherosclerosis. a 4-year follow-up. the cholesterol lowering atherosclerosis study (clas) was a randomized, placebo-controlled, angiographic trial testing combined colestipol-niacin therapy in 162 subjects. two-year results (clas-i) showed decreased atherosclerosis progression and increased regression. we now describe a subgroup of 103 subjects treated for 4 years (clas-ii). changes in blood lipid, lipoprotein-cholesterol, and apolipoprotein levels were maintained, and at 4 years significantly more drug-treated subjects demonstrated nonprogression (52% drug- vs 15% placebo-treated) and regression (18% drug- vs 6% placebo-treated) in native coronary artery lesions. significantly fewer drug-treated subjects developed new lesions in native coronary arteries (14% drug- vs 40% placebo-treated) and bypass grafts (16% drug- vs 38% placebo-treated). these results confirm clas-i findings and indicate that regression can continue for 4 years. they reaffirm the need for early initiation of vigorous long-term lipid lowering therapy in coronary bypass subjects.
expression of a soluble and functional form of the human beta 2 integrin cd11b/cd18. polymorphonuclear cells and monocytes (phagocytes) are a critical component of host defense against infections. however, these cells also play a significant role in host tissue damage in many noninfectious diseases, such as ischemia-reperfusion injury syndromes and rejection of transplanted organs. the leukocyte adhesion molecule family cd11/cd18 (beta 2 integrins) is critical to the function of polymorphonuclear cells and monocytes in inflammation and injury. inherited deficiency of cd11/cd18 impairs phagocyte chemotaxis, adhesion and transmigration across endothelium, and clearance of invading microorganisms through phagocytosis and cell-mediated killing. furthermore, murine monoclonal antibodies directed against the cd11b/cd18 (cr3) heterodimer have been shown to reduce, by 50%-80%, phagocyte-mediated ischemia-reperfusion injury in several organ systems, such as the myocardium, liver, and gastrointestinal tract and to inhibit development of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in nonobese diabetic (nod) mice. expression of cd11b/cd18 in a soluble and functional form might therefore be potentially useful as an anti-inflammatory agent. we have now expressed a recombinant soluble heterodimeric form of this human beta 2 integrin, normally expressed as two noncovalently associated membrane-bound subunits. the secreted receptor exhibited direct and specific binding to its ligand, ic3b, the major complement c3 opsonin, and inhibited binding of polymorphonuclear cells to recombinant interleukin 1-activated endothelium.
azathioprine in the treatment of children with inflammatory bowel disease. during a 6-year period, we treated 21 patients with azathioprine, 2 mg/kg/day, as an adjunct to their customary regimen. nine patients had ulcerative colitis and 12 patients had crohn disease; the patients' ages ranged from 3 to 17 years. the median duration of disease before the start of azathioprine therapy was 2 years, and median follow-up was 2 years. sixteen patients seemed to respond to azathioprine therapy: six patients in each disease group had complete responses and four patients (one with ulcerative colitis and three with crohn disease) had partial responses. two patients with ulcerative colitis and three patients with crohn disease did not respond. the median time until patients responded was less than 3 months for patients with ulcerative colitis and 4 months for those with crohn disease. reduction of corticosteroid dose was possible for all patients who responded to azathioprine therapy. only minimal side effects were attributable to the drug. we conclude that azathioprine is an effective adjunctive agent for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in childhood, but because questions remain regarding its long-term safety, its use should be reserved for children with refractory disease or severe and unacceptable side effects of corticosteroids.
diffuse axonal injury: analysis of 100 patients with radiological signs. one hundred patients with head injuries who showed diffuse axonal injury on computed tomographic scans are reported. evaluation of the glasgow coma score, pupillary signs, and computed tomographic findings on admission led to an improved ability to forecast outcomes. our relatively good results as compared with other series, can be explained by the high proportion of children and by the liberal use of computed tomography to evaluate head injuries, thus revealing that concussion may sometimes be regarded as an early form of diffuse axonal injury.
factor xiii deficiency and intracranial hemorrhages in infancy. we report an infant with factor xiii deficiency who had 2 seemingly spontaneous intracranial hemorrhages. it is important to consider factor xiii deficiency as a possible cause of unexplained intracranial hemorrhages in infancy. ongoing factor replacement therapy is recommended to prevent further bleeding episodes.
management of infants at risk for occult bacteremia: a decision analysis. because febrile infants with no obvious source of bacterial infection may have bacteremia, and because bacteremia is difficult to diagnose on clinical grounds, we used decision analysis to evaluate whether such infants should be treated with antibiotics, tested further, or sent home. using a simple decision tree, we found that the decision to give empiric antibiotic treatment is the decision of choice. the difference in quality-adjusted life expectancy between the "best" and "worst" decisions was only 11 days. however, this difference translated to prevention of death or permanent disability in 60 cases per 100,000 febrile children. further, empiric treatment remained the best management alternative unless the probability of bacteremia was less than 1.4% (less than any published prevalence), or the efficacy of treatment was less than 21%. our analysis demonstrated that a test with far greater sensitivity than leukocyte count or other tests currently in use is needed to justify testing rather than treating empirically. further, an enormous patient population would be needed to find a difference of both clinical and statistical significance between treated and untreated patients in a controlled trial. in the absence of such trials, we recommend blood culture and empiric antibiotic treatment of all infants at risk for occult bacteremia.
anatomical relationship between the renal venous arrangement and the kidney collecting system. the anatomical relationships between the renal venous arrangement and the pelviocaliceal system were studied in 52, 3-dimensional polyester resin corrosion endocasts. in 53.8% of the cases, there were 3 large venous trunks and in 28.8% there were 2 venous trunks joining to form the main renal vein. intrarenal veins demonstrated free anastomoses that were disposed in 3 systems of longitudinal arcades (stellate, arcuate and interlobar veins). there were large venous collars around caliceal necks and also horizontal arches crossing over calices to link anterior and posterior veins. in 84.6% of the cases the upper caliceal group was encircled anteriorly and posteriorly by venous plexuses, which coursed parallel to the infundibulum. in 50.0% of the cases the lower caliceal group also was enriched by 2 venous plexuses. a close relationship existed between a large inferior tributary of the renal vein and the anterior aspect of the ureteropelvic junction in 40.4% of the cases. in 69.2% of the cases there was a posterior (retropelvic) vein: in 48.1% this vein had a close relationship to the junction of the pelvis with the upper calix and in 21.1% it crossed the middle posterior surface of the renal pelvis.
transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of ostial left coronary artery stenosis. the diagnosis of ostial stenosis of the left main coronary artery is usually made by use of coronary angiography. however, positioning of the catheter across the obstruction may obscure this diagnosis during contrast injection. although a damping of arterial pressure when the catheter enters the left coronary artery may suggest ostial stenosis, it may not be possible to make this diagnosis with certainty during cardiac catheterization. we report a series of four patients in whom the left coronary ostium and proximal left coronary arteries were visualized by means of transesophageal echocardiography. both ostial narrowing by plaque and abnormally fast flow velocities were seen. in each case the echocardiographic findings contributed to the subsequent management of the patients.
primary lymphoma of bone: a clinicopathologic study of 25 cases reported over 10 years. twenty-five cases of primary lymphoma of bone (plb) reported over a 10-year period were reviewed. the presenting symptom was related to involvement of a single bone with or without regional nodal disease. none showed dissemination of lymphoma in the subsequent six months. patients affected were 7-65 years of age. an equal predilection for the axial and appendicular skeleton was noted. histologically, the commonest subtype was diffuse histiocytic lymphoma (dhl, 17 cases), whereas four were poorly differentiated lymphocytic (pdl) type and another four were unclassifiable. follow-up was available in 18 out of 25 patients for periods ranging from 7 months to 8 years. on clinicopathologic correlation we found that 75% of disease-free patients had a dhl whereas 60% of those alive with disease had a pdl. this study reiterates the view that plb has a good prognosis and the dhl subtype is especially amenable to complete eradication.
emerging techniques in the diagnosis of sinusitis. in recent years, the high prevalence of chronic sinusitis has been noted in isolation and in association with bronchial asthma, aspirin sensitivity, and perennial rhinitis. many sinus-associated symptoms arise from nasal rather than sinus pathology; thus, it is important to detect the presence, extent, and nature of any disease within the sinus cavities. conventional plain radiographs have limited sensitivity and have been supplanted by more widespread use of computerized tomography. the role of other modalities such as ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging has not yet been completely determined. other tests such as cytology and endoscopy can detect the presence of infection without the need for invasive antral puncture. practitioners should consider the impact of a negative imaging test on their therapeutic plan and order tests on that basis.
brake mechanics, asbestos, and disease risk. health risks posed by inhalable asbestos fibers are known to exist in a variety of industrial and nonindustrial settings. although early studies described an increased risk of asbestosis, lung cancer, and mesothelioma in asbestos-industry workers, subsequent research revealed the existence of a potential asbestos-related health hazard in nonasbestos industries such as the textile and railroad industries. brake mechanics and garage workers constitute a large work force with potential exposures to levels of asbestos capable of producing disease. unfortunately, the health risk faced by these workers has received little attention. this article briefly discusses currently available information on the asbestos health risks of workers in this setting, and highlights the need for further investigations of this occupational group.
microsurgical epididymovasostomy by tubule intussusception: a new technique in rat model. this experimental study on 15 adult male rats with bilateral epididymovasostomies evaluates a new technique of tubule intussusception as an improved form of end-to-end anastomosis. this paper describes in detail the steps in this technique and offers physiological, anatomical, and histological follow-up after 3 months. with this technique there is a 97% patency rate and a 23.3% incidence of macroscopic spermatic granuloma. complications are discussed in detail.
preoperative cytology and mammography in patients with single-duct nipple discharge treated by surgery. microdochectomy has been the routine management for single-duct nipple discharge. our review of 176 consecutive patients surgically treated between 1975 and 1988 revealed eight patients with in situ carcinomas and seven with infiltrative carcinomas. seventeen patients had multiple papillomas, two had atypical hyperplasia and two had atypical epitheliosis. case selection for surgery has recently been advocated. in our study, nipple discharge cytology was helpful in 67 per cent of cases with underlying malignant pathology. mammography was found to be unreliable, alerting suspicion in only two of 15 cases.
transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. a grade 4/6 systolic murmur, systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (sam), and severe mitral regurgitation (mr) documented by two-dimensional doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension. the patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure. this could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure.
frontal dysfunction and memory deficits in the alcoholic korsakoff syndrome and alzheimer-type dementia. this study investigated the intercorrelation of 8 'frontal' tests in 32 patients with korsakoff's syndrome and alzheimer's disease, and examined the relationship of frontal dysfunction to impaired release from proactive interference and impoverished retrieval from retrograde memory. amongst the frontal tests, there were statistically significant intercorrelations between 3 'fluency' tests and 3 'card-sorting' tests, although the degree of shared variance was relatively low. the relationship of another test--picture arrangement errors--was more equivocal; performance for 'cognitive estimates' was unrelated to performance in the other frontal tests, possibly because it may reflect pathology at a different frontal site. there was no evidence in this study that variability in release from proactive interference was related to measures of frontal function in either patient group, and the conditions under which these patient groups fail to show 'normal' release appear to be tightly constrained. on the other hand, the defective retrieval of retrograde memories was correlated with frontal dysfunction in both patient groups. there was a suggestion of a double dissociation with a measure of nonverbal short-term forgetting, impairment at which was related to the degree of general cortical atrophy rather than frontal dysfunction. a stepwise regression equation based on 3 frontal tests could account for 64% of the variability in retrograde memory performance within the total patient group, 68.5% in the korsakoff group and 57% in the alzheimer group. by comparison, the severity of anterograde memory impairment predicted only 21% of the variance in retrograde memory performance. it is concluded that frontal dysfunction produces a disorganization of retrieval processes which contributes to the temporally-extensive retrograde amnesia of these two disorders.
glycolysis as primary energy source in tumor cell chemotaxis. the energy requirements via glycolytic pathways were directly measured in migrating tumor cells. motility in the metastatic human melanoma cell line a2058, stimulated by insulinlike growth factor i (igf-i), depends on glycolysis in the presence of glucose as its principal source of energy. motility in glucose-free medium was 75% reduced and utilized mitochondrial respiration (inhibited by oligomycin). with increasing (physiologic) glucose concentrations, there was a dramatic shift to anaerobic glycolysis as the energy source and 93% elimination of the oligomycin inhibition of motility. oxamate, an inhibitor of glycolysis, inhibited motility at all glucose concentrations. co2 production from glycolysis and from the hexose monophosphate shunt was measured in migrating tumor cells. the time course and glucose-dose dependence of glycolytic co2 production correlated directly with motility. in contrast, mitochondrial co2 production was inversely related to glucose concentration. a monoclonal antibody for the igf-i receptor inhibited both motility and glycolytic co2 production, indicating that both processes are receptor mediated.
occult cancer in patients with deep venous thrombosis. a systematic approach. the authors prospectively studied 113 consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities to determine the most appropriate workup study for searching for a hidden cancer. after a careful physical examination, the following routine tests were performed: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr), whole blood counts, biochemistry, carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) levels, chest radiograph, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography (ct) scan. if a malignant lesion was suspected, further appropriate studies were performed. after discharge, periodic follow-up was performed on all patients in the outpatient clinic. a malignant neoplasm was detected in 12 patients. of these 12 patients, six were asymptomatic with the exception of experiencing thrombophlebitis. cancer was found more commonly in patients with idiopathic deep vein thrombosis (dvt) (7 of 31 versus 5 of 82 patients with secondary dvt; p = 0.012), and in those patients with abnormal lactic dehydrogenase (ldh) levels (6 of 23 versus 6 of 90; p = 0.007). abnormal cea levels allowed diagnosis of two cases of colonic cancer (on colonoscopy). both ultrasound and ct scan of the abdomen showed two cases of urinary bladder carcinoma at a very early stage. furthermore, two cases of adenomatous polyps in colon were found, a condition considered by most authors to be a colorectal cancer precursor. in addition, there were five patients with large benign pelvic tumors, and two patients with absent inferior vena cava. the most striking finding was that some cases of cancer were at a very early stage. it was concluded that blood cell counts, ldh, cea, chest radiograph, and abdominal ultrasonography (or ct scan) should be routinely performed on all patients with deep venous thrombosis (particularly those with idiopathic dvt). malignancy would not have been recognized in some patients if these tests had not been performed.
factors affecting the enterohepatic circulation of oral contraceptive steroids. oral contraceptive steroids may undergo enterohepatic circulation, but it is relevant for only estrogens, because these compounds can be directly conjugated in the liver. animal studies show convincing evidence of the importance of the enterohepatic circulation, but studies in humans are much less convincing. the importance of the route and the rate of metabolism of ethinyl estradiol are reviewed. some antibiotics have been reported anecdotally to reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptive steroids, but controlled studies have not confirmed this observation. although gut flora are altered by oral antibiotics, the blood levels of ethinyl estradiol are not reduced, and one antibiotic at least (cotrimoxazole) enhances the activity of ethinyl estradiol.
toxic carbamazepine concentrations following cardiothoracic surgery and myocardial infarction. carbamazepine is being used more frequently in the u.s. as an initial agent of choice to treat generalized tonic-clonic, mixed, and partial seizures with complex symptomatology. carbamazepine is extensively metabolized in the liver; however, there is little information available on its pharmacokinetics in patients following surgery or myocardial infarction, or in those with liver disease. we report a case of a patient who attained toxic carbamazepine serum concentrations (ranging from 18.2 to 21.5 micrograms/ml) two days after cardiothoracic surgery and an intraoperative myocardial infarction, and experienced lethargy, diplopia, dysarthria, diaphoresis, and horizontal and downgaze nystagmus. these alterations in serum carbamazepine concentration normalized ten days after surgery. they may have been due to a combination of changes in protein binding and decreased elimination due to altered intrinsic hepatic clearance. with carbamazepine achieving a more prominent place in anticonvulsant therapy, the influence of various procedures and disease processes on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of carbamazepine, as well as the clinical consequences of such changes, need further investigation.
coronary trapping of a complement activation product (c3a des-arg) during myocardial reperfusion in open-heart surgery. accumulation of complement factors has been found to occur in the myocardium after infarction. we studied the possibility that the complement activation product c3a des-arg is trapped within the coronary circulation during reperfusion of the ischemic myocardium. in 11 patients undergoing routine coronary artery bypass grafting, arterial blood was sampled before, during and after cardiopulmonary bypass. blood was drawn from the coronary sinus concomitantly with arterial blood sampling 5 and 30 min after release of the aortic cross-clamp (n = 10). from a preoperative value of 92 +/- 13 ng/ml, c3a des-arg rose during cpb to a maximum of 1816 +/- 393 at the end of cpb. following reperfusion for 5 min, c3a des-arg was 1284 +/- 232 ng/ml in arterial and 1106 +/- 100 in coronary sinus blood, a significant difference (p less than 0.05). the amount of c3a des-arg trapped in the heart at 5-min reperfusion showed positive correlation with its arterial concentration (p less than 0.05). no significant difference was found after 30 min of reperfusion. complement activation products trapped in the heart in the early reperfusion period may play a pathogenetic role in myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.
dermatology and the human gene map. chromosomal localization has been established for many genetic traits. gene mapping may lead to the identification of disease genes, an understanding of pathogenesis, and the development of rational therapy, as well as facilitating antenatal diagnosis and genetic counselling. 'the new genetics' is therefore of great interest to the clinician. unfortunately the complex technology and unfamiliar vocabulary of molecular biology often deter non-specialists from keeping abreast of these developments. this account explains the principles of gene mapping, discusses its relevance to dermatologists, and lists the established loci of dermatologically important genes.
can the blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding? we wanted to know if the blood urea nitrogen to creatinine (bun/cr) ratio could help distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding. we analyzed retrospectively patients admitted to our hospital for gastrointestinal bleeding over the past 5 years. a total of 126 patients represented 74 upper bleeds and 52 lower bleeds. the mean bun/cr ratio was significantly higher in upper than lower bleeders, 34.8 and 17.8 respectively (p less than 0.001). no lower bleeder had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36, whereas 38% of upper bleeders had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36. the bun/cr ratio may be an easy, cheap method of distinguishing upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding in some cases. a bun/cr ratio of greater than or equal to 36 suggests upper gastrointestinal bleeding, whereas a ratio of less than 36 is not helpful in locating the source of bleeding.
genetics and psychiatry: an unheralded window on the environment. two recent reviews in the american journal of psychiatry and the british journal of psychiatry reported on progress in understanding the genetics of psychiatric disorder. both reviews focused on this progress as a prelude to psychiatric diagnostics and therapeutics based on molecular biology. neither review recognized that the latest data in behavioral genetics support environmental causes for abnormal development and psychopathology as much as they support genetic causes. moreover, these genetic data point clearly to a type of environmental cause with central importance: the environment that is specific or unique to each sibling in a family.
neuromuscular diseases: evaluation with high-frequency sonography. forty-four patients with clinically suspected neuromuscular disease and 12 healthy volunteers underwent high-frequency ultrasound examination of the rectus femoris, vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and biceps brachii muscles, and the number of perimysial septa was determined. these numbers and muscle/soft-tissue ratios of the lower extremity were compared. findings were correlated with results of muscle biopsy in all patients with suspected disease. using the number of perimysial septa in the lower extremity, the authors found significant differences between the muscles of healthy volunteers and those of patients with duchenne muscular dystrophies, other muscular dystrophies, and spinal muscular atrophies: the receiver operating characteristic curve showed that an average of 12 perimysial septa within 1 cm of muscle is the ideal cutoff value to differentiate subjects without morphologic changes from those with pathologic findings. the authors conclude that this measurement is useful for differentiation of neuromuscular diseases and may be a noninvasive, reproducible means with which to evaluate disease progression.
free radical-derived quinone methide mediates skin tumor promotion by butylated hydroxytoluene hydroperoxide: expanded role for electrophiles in multistage carcinogenesis. free radical derivatives of peroxides, hydroperoxides, and anthrones are thought to mediate tumor promotion by these compounds. further, the promoting activity of phorbol esters is attributed, in part, to their ability to stimulate the cellular generation of oxygen radicals. a hydroperoxide metabolite of butylated hydroxytoluene, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroperoxyl-4-methyl-2,5-cyclohexadienone (bhtooh), has previously been shown to be a tumor promoter in mouse skin. bhtooh is extensively metabolized by murine keratinocytes to several radical species. the primary radical generated from bhtooh is a phenoxyl radical that can disproportionate to form butylated hydroxytoluene quinone methide, a reactive electrophile. since electrophilic species have not been previously postulated to mediate tumor promotion, the present study was undertaken to examine the role of this electrophile in the promoting activity of bhtooh. the biological activities of two chemical analogs of bhtooh, 4-trideuteromethyl-bhtooh and 4-tert-butyl-bhtooh, were compared with that of the parent compound. 4-trideuteromethyl-bhtooh and 4-tert-butyl-bhtooh have a reduced ability or inability, respectively, to form a quinone methide; however, like the parent compound, they both generate a phenoxyl radical when incubated with keratinocyte cytosol. the potency of bhtooh, 4-trideuteromethyl-bhtooh, and 4-tert-butyl-bhtooh as inducers of ornithine decarboxylase, a marker of tumor promotion, was commensurate with their capacity for generating butylated hydroxytoluene quinone methide. these initial results were confirmed in a two-stage tumor promotion protocol in female sencar mice. together, these data indicate that a quinone methide is mediating tumor promotion by bhtooh, providing direct evidence that an electrophilic intermediate can elicit this stage of carcinogenesis.
multiple spinal metastases from paraganglioma. isolated vertebral body metastases from paraganglioma are exceedingly rare. they have been reported to occur in the presence of active primary tumor in the neck, local recurrence, or widespread metastases. a unique case of carotid body tumor (paraganglioma) is reported with the following features: (1) multiple vertebral body metastases (c6, t9, and l3) presenting with spinal cord compression, and no evidence of local recurrence or other metastatic disease; (2) absence of mitoses on the original specimen or the metastatic deposit; and (3) a prolonged interval (9 years) to the development of symptomatic metastases.
oxygen-exacerbated bleomycin pulmonary toxicity bleomycin is an antineoplastic agent with potential for producing pulmonary toxicity, attributed in part to its free radical-promoting ability. clinical and research experiences have suggested that the risk of bleomycin-induced pulmonary injury is increased with the administration of oxygen. we report a case in which the intraoperative administration of oxygen in the setting of previous bleomycin therapy contributed to postoperative ventilatory failure. our patient recovered with corticosteroid therapy. physician awareness of a potential interaction between oxygen and bleomycin may help reduce the morbidity and mortality related to bleomycin therapy.
mild ischemia predisposes the s3 segment to gentamicin toxicity. the purpose of these studies was to determine if a functionally insignificant ischemic insult, occurring prior to gentamicin administration, enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity. bilateral renal pedicle clamp studies demonstrated that 15 minutes of ischemia did not increase the plasma creatinine yet markedly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity. further studies, in uninephrectomized rats, demonstrated that following fifteen minutes of renal ischemia and four hours of reperfusion inulin clearance, fena+ and cellular morphology were normal. this model, therefore, was used in all subsequent studies. while the plasma creatinine concentrations were normal 24 hours following 15 minutes of ischemia and only slightly increased following gentamicin administration (100 mg/kg, i.p.) gentamicin administered four hours following 15 minutes of renal ischemia resulted in significantly increased 24-hour plasma creatinine values. light microscopic quantitation of tissue injury, performed 24 hours following experimental manipulation, was notable for s3 segment damage in the ischemia plus gentamicin group. this was not observed in either the ischemia group or the sham operated gentamicin group. cortical gentamicin levels were elevated in the ischemia plus gentamicin group, despite similar plasma gentamicin half-lives. however, the elevation in cortical gentamicin levels was dissociated from the enhanced nephrotoxicity seen following mild ischemic injury. taken together these data indicate that mild renal ischemia, occurring prior to gentamicin administration, greatly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity with the greatest damage occurring to s3 cells.
null cell adenoma of the pituitary with features of plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation. the case of a 35-year-old man with pituitary macroadenoma who was complaining of reduced sexual activity is presented. histologic examination showed a chromophobic adenoma corresponding mainly to a null cell adenoma at the ultrastructural level. focal plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation of adenoma cells were demonstrated by immunohistochemical and electron-microscopic studies. it is suggested that adenomatous null cells represent pluripotent progenitor cells capable of transforming to different hormone-producing cell types. the factors accounting for differentiating to various cell populations have yet to be elucidated.
lack of relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time after curative resection for gastric cancer. to better comprehend the relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time after curative gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer, the authors reviewed retrospectively data on 568 patients treated in their clinics from 1965 to 1983. of these 568, 195 (34.3%) required no blood transfusion and 373 (65.7%) required transfusions within the perioperative period. univariate analysis indicated that the survival time of the transfusion recipients was significantly less than that of the patients who had no transfusions (p less than 0.01). in subgroups of the authors' patients stratified to adjust for stage of disease, there was, however, no significant difference between the survival rates. subsequently, multivariate analysis, using the cox regression analysis, which adjusted for sex, age, and other covariates, indicated that perioperative blood transfusion was not a useful factor for predicting survival time. multivariate analysis suggested that tumor size (p less than 0.01), degree of invasion into the gastric wall (p less than 0.01) and status of lymph node metastasis (p less than 0.01) were the most important covariates after curative gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer. the authors' findings revealed the lack of any relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time of patients who underwent curative resection for advanced gastric cancer.
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer. thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation. in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures, the success rate of intubation was 91%, and 82% were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored. the mean survival rate was 4.4 months. in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas, 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months. this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis. the overall morbidity rate was 28.1% (18.8% perforation, 6.3% hemorrhage, and 3.1% tracheal obstruction). the overall mortality rate was 18.8%. although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors, endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6% of patients with relief of symptoms, nutritional improvement, and a mean survival time of 4.5 months.
fourth ventricular schwannoma. case report. a schwannoma arising from the dorsum of the pontomedullary junction and presenting as an exophytic mass in the fourth ventricle is described. a ventricular schwannoma has not previously been reported in the literature. the presenting clinical and radiographic features and the pathology of this tumor are summarized, and an explanation is sought for its unusual location.
addition of clonidine enhances postoperative analgesia from epidural morphine: a double-blind study. this study was undertaken to evaluate the analgesic effect of the combination of epidural morphine and clonidine versus epidural morphine alone in patients with postoperative pain. a randomized double-blind design was used, and 91 patients scheduled for post-operative pain relief by epidural morphine were studied. patients received either a continuous epidural infusion of morphine and clonidine (group 1; n = 45) or morphine alone (group 2; n = 46) over the 72 h after major abdominal surgery. in the first 24 h, the dose of morphine was 6 mg per 24 h; during the second 24 h, it was decreased to 4 mg per 24 h; and in the final 24 h, it was decreased to 2 mg per 24 h in both groups. group 1 patients received clonidine (450 micrograms) during each 24-h period. additional epidural bolus injections of 2 mg morphine and intravenous meperidine were given on demand. the pain score, blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and relative forced vital capacity were measured at fixed times during the first 72 h after operation. total consumption of analgesics and side effects were recorded. although the total consumption of analgesics was significantly higher in group 2 (p less than 0.05), pain scores were lower in group 1 than group 2 during the entire observation period (p less than 0.05). epidural clonidine produced a significant decrease (p less than 0.05) in heart rate and blood pressure, whereas the respiratory rate was not affected. due to the better pain relief in group 1, the forced vital capacity was increased (p less than 0.05).
comparative epidemiology of cancer between the united states and japan. a second look. vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for japanese natives and united states whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations. results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking. oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization. as the japanese life-style and diet continue to become more "westernized," the rates of malignancies of the breast, ovary, corpus uteri, prostate, pancreas, and colon also continue to rise. nevertheless, the mortality patterns of certain malignancies, viz., laryngeal, esophageal, and urinary bladder cancer, are discrepant with their established risk factor associations, suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries. epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style.
procainamide-induced respiratory insufficiency after cardiopulmonary bypass. a 46-year-old man could not be weaned from ventilatory support while receiving procainamide. when the drug was discontinued, the patient was successfully weaned shortly thereafter.
stroke in systemic lupus erythematosus [published erratum appears in stroke 1991 mar;22(3):417] we investigated the clinical and pathologic characteristics of stroke in 234 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. thirteen patients (5.6%) developed cerebrovascular disease. cerebral infarction was noted in eight, cerebral hemorrhage in two, and subarachnoid hemorrhage in three. in seven (54%) of these 13 patients, stroke occurred less than or equal to 5 years after systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed. among the predisposing risk factors for stroke, hypertension was the most important. lupus anticoagulant was detected in three (38%) and anticardiolipin antibody in three (43% of seven investigated) of the patients with infarction. evaluation of the clinical manifestations and autoantibodies indicated that renal involvement and high titers of anti-deoxyribonucleic acid antibody were more frequent in the stroke group than in the non-stroke group. autopsy studies on six of the patients with stroke revealed small infarcts and hemorrhages in all, but in no case was true angiitis observed. libman-sacks endocarditis was found in two of the three patients with infarction. in conclusion, the important contributory factor to the development of stroke in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is considered to be hypertension mediated by immunologic abnormalities. antiphospholipid antibodies and libman-sacks endocarditis are closely associated with occlusive cerebrovascular disease.
stapling or suturing for anastomoses of the left side of the large intestine. two hundred and fifty patients undergoing elective surgical treatment involving anastomoses of the left side of the colon or colon and rectum have been studied in a randomized trial in which the eea (u. s. surgical corp.) circular stapler has been compared with single layer sutured anastomoses. only patients in whom either technique was feasible were included in the analysis. the operative techniques were largely standardized. patients were studied by means of a limited barium enema on the ninth or tenth postoperative day. the data have been analyzed for leakage rate (clinical and roentgenologic), other complications and degree of experience of the surgeon. eleven patients were excluded from the analysis because the selected technique could not be carried out; of these, eight were in the stapled group in which it was possible to perform a sutured anastomosis. there were no instances in which it was possible to staple but not possible to suture. the remaining three exclusions were patients in whom either a coloanal anastomosis or a hartmann procedure was performed. there was no over-all difference in the leakage rate--roentgenologic, clinical or total--between the two groups. however, when analyzed by the surgeon, the clinical leakage rate for surgeons in training was greater for sutured anastomoses than for stapled anastomoses (p = 0.053). thus, it appears that the benefits of experience are more pronounced for sutured anastomoses but that, in experienced hands, neither technique is superior.
intraoperative assessment of cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery. one of the problems in carotid surgery is the intraoperative detection of brain ischemia. none of the methods (eeg; stump pressure) applied so far have been successful. branston et al. (1974) found a threshold relationship between cortical cerebral blood flow and cortical somatosensory evoked potential (sep). as the local blood flow fell below about 16 ml/100 g/min a progressive reduction occurred in the amplitude of the cortical evoked potential (n20/p25), implying a fundamental failure of neuronal function in the somatosensory cortex. we have monitored cortical sep (somatosensory evoked potential) during 734 cea's (carotid endarterectomies) in order to find an index of risk of incipient cerebral ischemia during carotid cross-clamping, to determine the need for shunting and the causes of early irreversible neurologic deficits. in 59 cases evaluation of sep was not possible because of technical difficulties. during 586 cea's no alteration of sep occurred. however, 4 patients had an immediate postoperative neurologic deficit, while the sep remained normal. abnormal sep occurred in 89 cases and in 6 of these an irreversible loss of sep was seen. these patients awoke with a new neurologic deficit. we found a reversible abnormal sep in 83 cases. reversible changes of sep occurred mainly during carotid clamping. the diagnostic sensitivity of intraoperative sep monitoring in predicting neurologic outcome was 60% with a specificity of 100%.
life-threatening hemorrhage after placement of an endosseous implant: report of case this article reports an unusual but dangerous complication of implant surgery. minimal perforations of the lingual plate and inferior border of the mandible had been considered previously to be benign occurrences. this report demonstrates the importance of managing acute airway problems resulting from perforations.
semantic deterioration in alzheimer's: the patterns to expect. differentiating language changes between the normal aged and those in the early stages of dementia is never simple. knowing the differences and what to expect can aid in making this diagnosis.
selective hypersensitivity to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor by juvenile chronic myeloid leukemia hematopoietic progenitors. juvenile chronic myelogenous leukemia (jcml) is a good model for the study of myeloproliferation because jcml hematopoietic progenitor cells grow in vitro at very low cell densities without the addition of exogenous stimulus. previous studies have demonstrated that this proliferation is dependent on granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), and that removal of monocytes from the cell population before culture eliminates this "spontaneous" myeloproliferation, suggesting a paracrine role of monocyte stimulation. however, subsequent studies have shown that increased gm-csf production from the jcml monocytes is not a consistent finding and therefore not a plausible sole mechanism. in examining hematopoietic growth factor dose-response curves, both jcml gm and erythroid nonadherent progenitor cell populations displayed a marked and selective hypersensitivity to gm-csf. responses to interleukin-3 and g-csf were identical to control dose-response curves. this is the first demonstration of a myeloid leukemia in which hypersensitivity to a specific growth factor appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease.
pediatric hiv disease. the newest chronic illness of childhood. hiv disease has emerged as a major chronic illness of childhood. children with hiv infection and children with other chronic health impairments have much in common, including the need for comprehensive, multidisciplinary, coordinated care that includes special attention to the psychosocial effects on the child and family. however, because the mother and often the father and siblings share this lethal viral infection, the impact of hiv disease upon the family surpasses that of virtually all other chronic conditions. this is compounded by the association of the disease with drug use, its preponderance among the most disenfranchised populations in the united states, and the persistent public fear and discrimination surrounding aids. we have made substantial progress already in the medical management of this infection, and while we await the development of more effective therapies, we already have the tools and knowledge in hand to help these families.
esophageal contribution to chest pain in patients with coronary artery disease. we conducted a prospective study to determine the role of the esophagus in causing chest pain in patients with established cad on optimum therapy. thirty-two men with documented cad who complained of frequent and usually daily retrosternal chest pain were evaluated. following a standard esophageal manometry and acid perfusion test, simultaneous two-channel ambulatory holter monitor and esophageal ph record tests were performed for 24 hours. fifty-three episodes of chest pain were documented in 20 patients; 11 patients were free of pain. of the 20 patients who complained of chest pains, 17 (85 percent) demonstrated at least one episode of ppr, defined as a drop in distal esophageal ph to less than 4 within ten minutes before or after the onset chest pain. episodes of asymptomatic ger were common. the correlation of ppr with chest pain was 70 percent (37/53 episodes) and of ischemic ecg changes with chest pain 13 percent (7/53); in the remaining, there was no correlation with either. two patients demonstrated simultaneous ppr and ischemic ecg changes. seventeen esophageal motility abnormalities were observed in 14 patients (45 percent). it is our conclusion that esophageal disorders contribute to chest pain in patients with documented cad. in this group, ger plays a greater role than in those with normal coronary arteries. in addition, esophageal motility disorders are common in these patients. esophageal testing can be undertaken safely in these patients.
multivessel coronary angioplasty from 1980 to 1989: procedural results and long-term outcome from june 1980 to january 1989, 3,186 patients had coronary angioplasty of two (2,399 patients) or three (787 patients) of the three major epicardial coronary systems. a mean of 3.6 lesions (range 2 to 14) were dilated per patient, with a 96% success rate. acute complications were seen in 94 patients (2.9%) and included q wave infarction in 47 (1.4%), urgent coronary artery bypass surgery in 33 (1%) and death in 31 (1%). multivariate correlates of in-hospital death included impaired left ventricular function, age greater than or equal to 70 years and female gender. complete long-term follow-up data were available for the first 700 patients and the follow-up period averaged 54 +/- 15 months in duration. actuarial 1 and 5 year survival rates were 97% and 88%, respectively, and were not different in patients with two or three vessel disease. by cox regression analysis, age greater than or equal to 70 years, left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 40% and prior coronary artery bypass surgery were associated with an increased mortality rate during the follow-up period. repeat revascularization procedures were required in 322 patients (46%). restenosis resulted in either repeat angioplasty or bypass surgery in 227 patients (32%). repeat coronary angioplasty was performed for isolated restenosis in 126 patients (18%), for restenosis and disease progression at new sites in 85 patients (12%) and for new disease progression alone in 54 patients (8%). coronary bypass surgery was required in 110 patients (16%) during the follow-up period.
cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in acromegaly. objective: to determine the cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in patients with acromegaly. design: prospective nonrandomized study. setting: referral-based endocrinology clinic. patients: seven patients with active acromegaly, three of whom had refractory congestive heart failure. the other four patients were free of symptoms associated with heart failure. interventions: all patients were treated with octreotide, 100 to 500 micrograms subcutaneously three times daily. the three patients with heart failure continued to receive cardiovascular therapy (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, digitalis, diuretics). measurements and main results: during octreotide therapy, patients showed a rapid decrease in growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 (igf-1): mean levels (+/- sd) fell from 28.1 +/- 32.7 micrograms/l to 5.2 +/- 8.3 micrograms/l and 740 +/- 126 micrograms/l to 372 +/- 64 micrograms/l, respectively (p less than 0.025). plasma volume returned to normal and heart rate decreased significantly. in the four patients without heart failure, right-heart catheterization done before and after 3 months of octreotide therapy showed an 18.3% +/- 11% reduction in stroke volume and a return to normal of the cardiac index. the three patients with congestive heart failure, evaluated before and after 40 days and up to 2 years of therapy, showed a dramatic clinical improvement that was associated with an increase in stroke volume (by 24% to 51%). in these patients, the cardiac index remained in the normal range, filling pressures were markedly decreased, and pulmonary wedge pressure returned to normal. this improvement was sustained for up to 3 years in the two patients with heart failure who were receiving long-term treatment. conclusion: the rapid and sustained cardiac improvement seen in our patients shows that octreotide therapy for patients with acromegaly may be highly beneficial, even in those patients with advanced cardiac failure.
neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis. human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever, headache, myalgias, anorexia, and occasionally rash. in our patient, changes in mental status, upper motor neuron signs, cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system. intraleukocytic inclusions, although observed in our case, have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis.
the effect of long-acting somatostatin analogue on enzyme changes after endoscopic pancreatography. the effect of the long-acting somatostatin analogue, octreotide acetate (sandostatin) on enzyme elevation after endoscopic pancreatography was studied in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial. sixty-three consecutive patients undergoing ercp were randomly allocated to two group. in the control group, 34 patients received isotonic sodium-chloride, and in the treated group 29 patients received 0.1 mg of octreotide acetate subcutaneously before the pancreatography. after the endoscopy, amylase levels increased to pathological range in 15 of the controls and in 3 of the treated patients, whereas lipase levels showed a pathological rise in 17 of the controls and in 5 of the treated patients. a significant difference (p less than 0.01) was observed in the amylase and lipase changes between the two groups at 90 and 180 min after pancreatography. the enzyme levels showed at 90 min, mean +/- sd amylase: controls 540 +/- 185 units/liter, treated patients 261 +/- 108 units/liter; lipase: controls 304 +/- 98 units/liter, treated patients 198 +/- 88 units/liter. these findings suggest that the use of long-acting somatostatin analogue ameliorates the enzyme increases in the serum after endoscopic pancreatography.
surgical treatment of renovascular hypertension and respective late results. a twenty years experience. this paper presents the long term results following operative reconstruction for renovascular hypertension in 115 patients operated upon over a period of 20 years. there were 71 (61.7%) males and 44 (38.3%) females with a median age of 46 years (range 16-67). renal revascularization was unilateral in 96 (83.4%) cases and bilateral in 19 (16.6%). dacron knitted bypass grafts, were used in 51 and ptfe in 33 instances. saphenous vein grafts were used in 11 patients. in 15 cases treatment was by local endarterectomy with concomitant angioplasty (12 unilateral and 3 bilateral). simultaneous aortorenal reconstruction was undertaken in 38 (33%) patients. there were no deaths in the group with isolated renal artery reconstruction. in the group of aortorenal reconstructions, two deaths were encountered (5.7%). postoperatively, blood pressure was either normal or improved in 83 (72%) patients at a mean follow-up period of 48.3 months (range 1-195 months). the best results were obtained in younger individuals with segmental renal artery lesions. linear progression analysis, showed age to be a major determinant in the postoperative response to hypertension. there was a greater degree of long term success in patients with fibromuscular dysplasia, as compared to individuals with atherosclerosis. crude survival probabilities, were 78% and 61% at 5 and 10 years respectively. late deaths encountered in the present series, were mostly attributable to myocardial infarction (7.8%). in this series, the best results were obtained in individuals younger than 50 years of age, with segmental renal artery lesions.
definition of the role of contemporary surgical management in cisternal and parenchymatous cysticercosis cerebri. with increasing immigration from endemic regions, the incidence of neurocysticercosis in north america is rising. this retrospective study was undertaken to examine the role of surgery in those cases presenting with large cystic parenchymal and cisternal lesions in the current era of anthelminthic agents administered orally. a total of 237 patients presented with newly diagnosed neurocysticercosis to our institution over a recent 5-year period (mean age, 31.2 years). among those who presented with cystic mass lesions predominantly affecting the brain parenchyma and cisternal spaces, 20 (8.4%; mean age, 40.2 years) with large cystic lesions subsequently underwent surgical intervention, either because of an emergent presentation or because they were refractory to medical management. clinical presentation included increased intracranial pressure, focal neurological deficit, and seizure. radiographic imaging (computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging) demonstrated 12 cases with cisternal lesions, 7 with parenchymal lesions, and 1 involving both compartments. based on imaging guidelines, 30 operative procedures (excluding shunt revisions) were performed (14 craniotomies, 8 cerebrospinal fluid diversions, 7 stereotactic procedures, and 1 burr hole drainage). fifteen (75%) showed neurological or symptomatic improvement over a median follow-up period of 36.4 months. there were three surgery-related complications and no deaths.
measurements of right ventricular volumes during fluid challenge. the effects of fluid loading on rv function were studied in 41 acutely ill patients monitored with a modified pulmonary artery catheter equipped for measuring rvef. hemodynamic evaluation was performed before and after infusion of 300 ml of 4.5 percent albumin solution in 30 min. changes in si did not correlate with pra or ppao but did with rvedvi. for the entire group, rvef was unchanged (27 +/- 9 vs 27 +/- 9 percent). in the eight patients with an initial rvedvi greater than 140 ml/m2, the fluid challenge increased pra and ppao and reduced lvswi without any other significant effect. there was no significant correlation between rvedvi and pra and only a weak correlation between rvesvi and ppa. however, there was a highly linear correlation between both rvedvi and rvesvi and changes in rvedvi and in rvesvi, suggesting that in the absence of severe pulmonary hypertension rv output is primarily dependent on rv preload.
pigmented bowen's disease arising from pigmented seborrheic keratoses. we report three cases of pigmented bowen's disease that clinically and histologically had features of seborrheic keratoses. we speculate about the mechanism of pigmentation in these lesions and suggest that they arise from pigmented seborrheic keratoses.
evidence that a receptor-operated event on the neutrophil mediates neutrophil accumulation in vivo. pretreatment of 111in-neutrophils with pertussis toxin in vitro inhibits their accumulation in vivo. the role of neutrophil chemoattractant receptors in neutrophil stimulation in vitro is well established, however, the precise mechanisms underlying local neutrophil accumulation at inflammatory sites in vivo have not been defined. a fundamental question that remains open is whether chemoattractants act on the endothelial cell or the neutrophil to initiate the process of neutrophil migration in vivo. to address this question we have investigated whether neutrophil accumulation in vivo can occur if chemoattractant receptor occupancy is uncoupled from neutrophil stimulation. for this purpose we have used pertussis toxin (pt) as the pharmacologic tool. we have investigated the effect of in vitro pretreatment of rabbit neutrophils with pt on their responses in vitro and on their accumulation in vivo. pretreatment of rabbit neutrophils with pt inhibited fmlp- and c5a-, but not pma- induced increases in cd18 expression, neutrophil adherence, and degranulation in vitro. this pretreatment procedure with pt inhibited the accumulation of radiolabeled neutrophils in vivo in response to intradermally injected fmlp, c5a, c5a des arg, leukotriene b4, il-8, and zymosan in rabbit skin. further, in contrast to the in vitro results, pt inhibited the pma-induced 111in-neutrophil accumulation in vivo. interestingly, pretreatment of neutrophils with pt also inhibited accumulation in response to intradermally injected il-1, despite the reports that il-1 lacks neutrophil chemoattractant activity in vitro. although the experimental techniques used cannot distinguish the different stages of neutrophil migration involved, these results suggest that the accumulation of neutrophils induced by local extravascular chemoattractants in vivo depends on a pertussis toxin-sensitive receptor operated event on the neutrophil itself. further, pma and il-1 may release secondary chemoattractants in vivo.
effect of motilin on gastric emptying in patients with diabetic gastroparesis. objectives: because disturbances of gastric emptying are a serious complication in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects with regard to the maintenance of good metabolic control, we wanted to assess the effectiveness of motilin as a potential treatment for gastric emptying disturbances. research design and methods: the intestinal hormone motilin has been shown to accelerate gastric emptying in healthy subjects. therefore, we examined the effect of intravenous motilin on gastric emptying of a 99mtc colloid-labeled semisolid test meal in 9 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic gastroparesis. all patients had a significantly delayed gastric emptying rate compared with a group of 11 healthy control subjects. results: during the infusion of motilin, gastric emptying was accelerated, and it was no longer significantly different from control values. conclusions: these data demonstrate that motilin and related compounds such as erythromycin derivatives could be useful for the treatment of disturbed gastric emptying in diabetic subjects.
role of perfusion pressure and flow in major organ dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass. the role of perfusion pressure and flow during cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and hemodilution in the development of new postoperative renal or clinically apparent cerebral dysfunction was examined in 504 adults. cardiopulmonary bypass flow was targeted at greater than 40 ml.kg-1.min-1 and pressure at greater than 50 mm hg. flows and pressures less than target occurred in 21.6% and 97.1% of patients, respectively. fifteen patients (3.0%) suffered new renal and 13 (2.6%) new central nervous system dysfunction. low pressure or flow during cardiopulmonary bypass, expressed in absolute values or in intensity-duration units, were not predictors of either adverse outcome. multivariate analysis identified use of postoperative intraaortic balloon counterpulsation (p less than 10(-6], excessive blood loss in the icu (p less than 10(-4], need for vasopressors before cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 10(-4], postoperative myocardial infarction (p less than 10(-3], emergency reoperation (p less than 0.002), excessive postoperative transfusion (p less than 0.02), and chronic renal disease (p less than 0.03) as independent predictors of postoperative renal dysfunction. independent predictors of postoperative central nervous system dysfunction were cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the intensive care unit (p less than 10(-6], intracardiac thrombus or valve calcification (p less than 0.02), and chronic renal disease (p less than 0.03). age greater than 65 years (40.7% of patients) did not predict either outcome. we conclude that failure of the native circulation during periods other than cardiopulmonary bypass rather than the flows and pressures considered here is the major cause of renal and clinically apparent central nervous system dysfunction after cardiac operations.
chronic care needs to be a higher priority. although acute care remains the focus of the u.s. health care delivery system, a shift is taking place toward chronic-illness mortality. developing effective chronic-disease management processes is tough in the context of today's acute care orientation, according to william f. henry, president of foresight strategy associates, st. paul, mn.
ehrlichiosis in children. tick-borne rickettsiae of the genus ehrlichia have recently been recognized as a cause of human illness in the united states. in the years 1986-1988, 10 cases of ehrlichiosis were diagnosed in children in oklahoma. fever and headache were universal: myalgias, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia were also common. rash was observed in six patients but was a prominent finding in only one. leukopenia, lymphopenia, and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory abnormalities. six patients were treated with tetracycline, three with chloramphenicol, and one was not treated with antibiotics: all recovered. the onset of illness in spring and early summer for most cases paralleled the time when amblyomma americanum and dermacentor variabilis are most active, suggesting that one or both ticks may be vectors of human ehrlichiosis in oklahoma.
treatment of vaginal candidiasis: orally or vaginally? vaginal candidiasis continues to be the most common cause of vaginal discharge. a large variety of topical drugs and a selection of orally active antifungals are currently available. the choice between the use of oral drugs or intravaginal agents will depend on the therapeutic results obtained with the different agents, side effects, pregnancy status, and patient preference. the results obtained in the maria hospital, tilburg, the netherlands, and a review of foreign data suggest the following: (1) for acute infection oral and topical agents produce equivalent results. (2) for chronic infections oral medication is preferred. (3) oral therapy should not be given to pregnant patients or to patients not using reliable contraceptive measures. (4) half the patients prefer oral medication; only 5% prefer intravaginal therapy, and the others had no clear preference.
the treatment of gilles de la tourette syndrome by limbic leucotomy. a patient with gilles de la tourette syndrome and severe self-injurious compulsions who had failed to respond to drug treatment and behavioural therapy obtained a complete and sustained resolution of his destructive behaviour and improvement in his tics following bilateral limbic leucotomy.
serial immunocytologic analysis of blood for tumor cells in two patients with neuroblastoma. tumor surveillance tests are used to determine whether malignant cells are responsive or resistant to therapeutic regimens. for patients with neuroblastoma, conventional methods of surveillance are not sensitive enough. because tumor cells are shed into the circulation, immunocytologic analysis of blood may function as a sensitive monitoring system. in this study, five blood samples were obtained from two patients with disseminated neuroblastoma at diagnosis and during therapy. these samples were analyzed with monoclonal antibodies and immunoperoxidase staining to determine whether circulating neuroblasts were present. in both patients, the presence or absence of circulating neuroblasts yielded information that was more sensitive than that from conventional tests. the authors conclude that immunocytologic analysis of blood should be included with conventional monitoring methods for surveillance of patients with disseminated neuroblastoma.
large cystic optic glioma. a 5 1/2-year-old boy developed a huge cyst in his chiasmal glioma 4 years after radiation therapy. the cyst produced obtundation but was successfully treated.
leukocyte larceny: spurious hypoxemia confirmed with pulse oximetry leukemic patients with extremely high white blood counts may exhibit the phenomenon of leukocyte larceny, in which white blood cells metabolize plasma oxygen in arterial blood gas samples (abg) producing a spuriously low oxygen tension. we report the case of a leukemic patient with a white blood count in excess of 500,000 in whom multiple abgs documented hypoxemia out of proportion to his clinical picture. pulse oximetry was used to confirm higher hemoglobin oxygen saturation to establish the leukocyte larceny.
percent tumor necrosis as a predictor of treatment response in canine osteosarcoma. the percent tumor necrosis was determined in 200 dogs with spontaneously occurring osteosarcoma. one hundred dogs had no treatment before amputation or death. one hundred other dogs were treated with either radiation therapy alone (n = 23), intraarterial (ia) cisplatin alone (n = 16), intravenous (iv) cisplatin alone (n = 6), radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin (n = 47), or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin (n = 8). eighty-nine of these 100 dogs had their tumors resected 3 weeks after the end of therapy (6 weeks after the initiation of therapy) and replaced with a cortical bone allograft. dogs with preoperative treatment were evaluated for local tumor control and time to metastasis. the mean percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma was 26.8%. the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation only, ia cisplatin only, and iv cisplatin only was 81.6%, 49.1% and 23.8%, respectively. the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin was 83.7% and 78.2%, respectively. there was no significant difference between percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma compared with those receiving iv cisplatin, but there was a significant increase in percent tumor necrosis with all other treatments. a mathematic model for the effect of cisplatin and radiation dose was developed using multiple regression analysis. the radiation dose calculated to cause at least 80% tumor necrosis was 42.2 gy (95% confidence interval [ci], 38.0 to 47.6 gy) when radiation was given alone and 28.1 gy (95% ci, 21.3 to 36.6 gy) when radiation was combined with ia cisplatin. areas of viable tumor tended to be most frequent adjacent to the articular cartilage and in the joint capsule. percent tumor necrosis was strongly predictive for local tumor control; 28 of 32 dogs with greater than 80% tumor necrosis had local control, and only eight of 29 dogs with less than 79% tumor necrosis had local control (p = 0.0047). there was no correlation between percent tumor necrosis and time to metastasis.
evidence for role of prostacyclin as a systemic hormone in portal hypertension. the possibility that prostacyclin could be a systemic hormone and could mediate the splanchnic hyperemia of chronic portal hypertension was evaluated in rabbits in a normotensive state and in rabbits with chronic partial ligation of the portal vein. in rabbits with portal hypertension (pht), 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha (pgf1 alpha, a prostacyclin degradation product) was elevated twofold in all vascular beds (systemic arterial, systemic venous, and portal venous) when compared with levels in control animals. in pht rabbits, exogenous prostacyclin infusion after cyclooxygenase blockade through the systemic arterial, systemic venous, or portal venous route resulted in an equal elevation of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha in the reciprocal vascular beds and restored the original precyclooxygenase blockade hemodynamics. these hemodynamic changes were of equal magnitude irrespective of site of infusion in pht. in controls there was no significant change in 6-keto-pgf1 alpha or hemodynamics with intraportal infusion. we conclude that prostacyclin achieves systemic levels by escaping hepatic degradation resulting from portosystemic shunting in the animal with chronic portal hypertension.
coeliac disease and malignancy of the duodenum: diagnosis by endoscopy, successful treatment of the malignancy, and response to a gluten free diet. a patient presented with subtotal villous atrophy and a malignant duodenal tumour of uncertain histogenesis. he was successfully treated by resection and chemotherapy and the small bowel mucosa recovered on a gluten free diet. the tumour was diagnosed at upper gastrointestinal endoscopy when barium studies and abdominal computed tomography were normal, thus making this one of the earliest coeliac malignancies diagnosed.
the in vivo biologic effect of interleukin 2 and interferon alfa on natural immunity in patients with head and neck cancer. given the association of deficient natural immunity with the risk of metastatic disease, the ability to activate natural killer cell function may have a therapeutic significance. the effect of continuous infusion of interleukin 2 plus intramuscular interferon alfa on natural immune status was, therefore, analyzed in eight patients with head and neck cancer. also evaluated was the effect of interleukin 2-interferon alfa therapy on lymphokine-activated killer cell activity as well as total lymphocyte count, percent of lymphocyte subsets, and levels of both circulating immune complexes and antibody classes. both the percent and absolute number of natural killer cells (ie, cd56+ cd3- lymphocytes) within peripheral blood as well as natural killer cell activity against k562 targets increased significantly with treatment. the remaining immune parameters were not significantly altered. the demonstrated capacity to modulate natural immune function supports the potential use of interleukin 2-containing regimens as a preventive measure against metastatic disease in patients with head and neck cancer.
platelet volume, aggregation, and adenosine triphosphate release in cerebral thrombosis. we compared whole blood platelet aggregation, adenosine triphosphate release, platelet count, platelet crit (percentage volume of platelets), and mean platelet volume during the acute, subacute, and chronic periods of cerebral thrombosis in 22 patients with value in 29 controls. during the acute and subacute periods, platelet aggregation, platelet count, platelet crit, and mean platelet volume were significantly less in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.05-0.01) while the adenosine triphosphate release rate per volume of platelets was significantly greater (p less than 0.05). during the acute period, infarct size showed a significant positive correlation with platelet aggregation (r = 0.59, p less than 0.01) and adenosine triphosphate release rate (r = 0.70, p less than 0.001) but a negative correlation with platelet count (r = -0.44, p less than 0.05). our results suggest that platelet aggregation is reduced during the acute period due to the consumption of platelets during thrombogenesis but that the remaining individual platelets are hyperactive. platelet consumption during the acute period increases with infarct size. during the chronic period, platelet crit and mean platelet volume were significantly less in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.01) while the adenosine triphosphate release rate was significantly greater (p less than 0.01), suggesting sustained platelet consumption and chronically enhanced secretion of individual platelets.
a retinoic acid response element is part of a pleiotropic domain in the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase gene. several hormones, including insulin, glucagon, and glucocorticoids, regulate the expression of the rate-limiting gluconeogenic enzyme, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase [gtp: oxaloacetate carboxy-lyase (transphosphorylating); ec 4.1.1.32; pepck] in liver. in this report we demonstrate that retinoic acid (ra) also regulates pepck expression by inducing a 3-fold increase in the rate of transcription of the pepck gene. a ra response element located between -468 and -431 in the pepck promoter mediates a 7-fold increase in expression of a chimeric construct containing the basal pepck promoter ligated to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene. this element confers ra responsiveness through the heterologous thymidine kinase promoter and functions relatively independent of position and orientation. an 18-base-pair core sequence (-451 to -434) (i) mediates an effect of ra on pepck gene expression and contains motifs found in two other ra response elements; (ii) corresponds to af1, an accessory factor element that is an integral component of the complex glucocorticoid response unit in the pepck gene promoter; (iii) is in a region involved in the developmental expression of the pepck gene; and (iv) shows homology to elements involved in the tissue-specific regulation of genes, including the hepatic apolipoprotein genes and the alpha 1-antitrypsin gene.
diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia by magnetic resonance angiography the study of blood flow by means of magnetic resonance techniques has led to a noninvasive magnetic resonance angiography (mra) technique for imaging large cerebral vessels. ten children with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy and a history of acute neurologic syndromes were studied with combined parenchymal magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and mra. six had abnormal mri findings and mra-defined luminal lesions in the vascular distribution of these parenchymal infarctions. the three children with previous intraarterial angiography had mra abnormalities that corresponded with vascular lesions on conventional angiograms. four had normal mri and mra findings. we conclude that a combination of mri and mra provides a noninvasive screening test for large-vessel disease in this population.
chromogranin a: posttranslational modifications in secretory granules. the primary structure of chromogranin a indicates multiple domains which might be subject to posttranslational modification. we explored chromogranin a's proteolytic cleavage, glycosylation, and possible intermolecular disulfide links, using biochemical and cell biological approaches. anti-chromogranin a region-specific immunoblots on chromaffin granules suggested bidirectional endoproteolytic cleavage of chromogranin a; control experiments ruled out artifactual cleavage during granule isolation or lysis. isolation of chromogranin a-derived peptides by gel filtration chromatography or sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (sds-page), followed by n-terminal amino acid sequencing, established several cleavage sites, including at least two at dibasic sites. secretion of chromogranin a from bovine chromaffin cells did not initiate further cleavage, nor did prolonged exposure of secreted chromogranins to the secretory cells. the chromogranin a cleavage pattern was qualitatively similar in other neuroendocrine tissues, though cleavage was more complete in adrenal medullary than in anterior pituitary hormone storage vesicles, and n-terminal fragments of 45 and 55 kilodaltons were more prominent in the hypothalamus. a similar cleavage pattern was seen in human pheochromocytoma granules, as judged by chromogranin a region-specific immunoblots, fragment isolation by sds-page, and microsequencing. the presence of full-length chromogranin a as the core protein of a chromaffin granule soluble proteoglycan was suggested in bovine (but not human) chromaffin granules by glycoprotein staining, chondroitinase abc digestion, chemical deglycosylation, and region-specific immunoblotting. human (but not bovine) chromogranin a displayed intermolecular disulfide crosslinks on sds-page gels and immunoblotting. these results document diverse structural paths that the chromogranin a molecule may take in endocrine secretory cells after its translation.
patient-related variables and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty--a report from the m-heart group. as part of a randomized prospective study designed to investigate the restenosis process after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), the relation between patient-related variables and restenosis rate was examined. a total of 722 patients had successful ptca. angiographic follow-up was scheduled for 6 +/- 2 months after the procedure and achieved in 510 patients (71%), yielding 598 lesions for analysis. the overall restenosis rate was 40%. the rate was higher in patients undergoing early restudy for a clinical event than in those undergoing routinely scheduled follow-up restudy (71 vs 22%, p less than 0.0001). age, sex, cigarette smoking history, diabetes mellitus and history of previous myocardial infarction were not associated with restenosis rate. angina duration and severity before ptca were also unrelated to restenosis rate. in summary, these variables, many of which have been previously implicated in restenosis, were not found to be predictors of restenosis. the decision to perform ptca in individual patients should not be negatively influenced by the presence of these factors.
diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (dish) of the shoulder: a cause of shoulder pain? shoulder pain is a common complaint and shoulder hyperostosis a frequent radiological condition. however, little is known about the association between the clinical and radiological findings. to evaluate the clinical relevance of shoulder hyperostosis we performed a controlled, blind study of 99 hospitalized probands with and without thoracospinal hyperostosis on lateral chest x-rays. the study included grading of the shoulder hyperostosis on the basis of three bilateral standard radiographs, assessing shoulder pain in a standardized way by an interviewer and recording extraskeletal causes of shoulder pain. the prevalence of shoulder hyperostosis was doubled in probands with thoracospinal hyperostosis compared to controls (chi 2 = 5.90, p less than 0.025, n = 99). shoulder hyperostosis, irrespective of thoracospinal hyperostosis, predisposed to shoulder pain (40% versus 18%, chi 2 = 4.06, p less than 0.05, n = 74). shoulder hyperostosis in combination with thoracospinal hyperostosis (shoulder dish) predisposed to shoulder pain to an even greater extent (46% versus 12%, chi 2 = 6.64, p less than 0.01, n = 47). we conclude that shoulder hyperostosis is a radiological finding of potential clinical relevance.
bladder function in the mentally retarded. a group of 21 mentally retarded patients with severe, long-standing urinary symptoms underwent urodynamical investigation. the most common abnormalities were detrusor areflexia and detrusor hyper-reflexia. of 11 patients treated surgically, 10 derived marked benefit. drugs were successful in reducing micturition problems in 3/6 patients. severely retarded patients with spastic quadriplegia are difficult to investigate and if this is associated with detrusor hyper-reflexia it is impossible to treat them in any way. severely retarded patients with detrusor areflexia and infrequent voiding can benefit from bladder outlet surgery. patients with moderate (especially mild) retardation can be investigated and treated in the same way as non-retarded people.
hydromyelic hydrocephalus. correlation of hydromyelia with various stages of hydrocephalus in postshunt isolated compartments. the clinical features and pathophysiology of specific forms of hydromyelia are analyzed in this report together with the chronological changes of associated hydrocephalus. nine patients were studied; all had hydromyelia with varying degrees of associated hydrocephalus. clinically applicable classification systems were used to evaluate the progression of hydrocephalus (stages i to iv) and to define the compartment isolated after shunting in the previously communicating cerebral ventricles (types i to iv). four patients had stage iv disease (holoneural canal dilatation); one had stage ii and four had stage i disease (both stages i and ii with supratentorial hydrocephalus). all patients were initially treated by ventriculoperitoneal shunting at an average age of 9.9 years. five patients had progressive spinal symptoms before or after treatment of their hydrocephalus. two patients had type iii isolation (an isolated rhombencephalic ventricle) with a functioning ventricular shunt; ventriculography confirmed a communication between the fourth ventricle and the hydromyelia, and both patients improved after placement of a shunt in the fourth ventricle. the remaining patients had type iv isolation (isolated central canal dilatation) with a functioning ventricular shunt. this study indicates that in some cases the pathophysiology of hydromyelia is closely related to associated hydrocephalus. a new concept of the development of an isolated compartment after shunting is proposed to explain the progression of hydromyelia in these cases.
sensitivity to titanium. a cause of implant failure? tissues from five patients who underwent revision operations for failed total hip replacements were found to contain large quantities of particulate titanium. in four cases this metal must have come from titanium alloy screws used to fix the acetabular component; in the fifth case it may also have originated from a titanium alloy femoral head. monoclonal antibody labelling showed abundant macrophages and t-lymphocytes, in the absence of b-lymphocytes, suggesting sensitisation to titanium. skin patch testing with dilute solutions of titanium salts gave negative results in all five patients. however, two of them had a positive skin test to a titanium-containing ointment.
the incidence of deep vein thrombosis after cementless and cemented knee replacement. the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in 244 patients who had total knee replacement has been studied. in 120 the prosthesis was cemented and in 124 it was cementless. in all cases the replacement was primary and a porous-coated prosthesis with a porous-coated central tibial stem was used. deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by venography, and pulmonary embolism by perfusion scanning. the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the cementless knees (23.8%) and in the cemented (25%) was approximately the same. the only significant predisposing factors for deep vein thrombosis in both groups were obesity, prolonged postoperative immobilisation, previous venous disease and hyperlipidaemia.
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section: a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia. the morphine was administered as a single bolus, following delivery, in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg. the charts of 4880 caesarean sections, performed on 4500 patients, were reviewed. the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded. the duration of analgesia was 22.9 +/- 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine. eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr. twelve patients (0.25 per cent) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute, on at least one occasion. no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea. pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients, nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent. herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients. epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose. even in this young healthy patient population, clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated.
aberrant regeneration in a case of syringobulbia: selective co-activation of abducens and facial nerves during saccades. a patient suffering from syringobulbia and syringomyelia exhibited a phasic contraction of the ipsilateral facial muscles, mainly the levator labii, whenever he looked to the left or right. facial muscle twitches occurred exclusively with saccades. the selective co-activation of abducens and facial nerves is interpreted as the result of bilateral misrouting of regenerating neurons from the parapontine reticular formation to the facial nerve in the tegmentum pontis.
the scimitar syndrome. the clinical spectrum of the scimitar syndrome ranges from severely ill infants to asymptomatic adults. the true incidence of the disorder is unknown because the syndrome may remain undetected in asymptomatic patients until a chest roentgenogram is obtained. we have presented the contrasting clinical experiences of two adult women, one with few symptoms and a benign course, and the other with exacerbation of her asthma from recurrent upper respiratory tract infections originating in the lower lobe of her right lung. improvement resulted from surgical resection of this congenitally abnormal, bronchiectatic segment of lung.
flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome. we report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye. this is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome, suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction.
low-dose bupivacaine does not improve postoperative epidural fentanyl analgesia in orthopedic patients [published erratum appears in anesth analg 1991 may;72(5):718] epidural infusions of 10 micrograms/ml fentanyl combined with low-dose bupivacaine (0.1%) were compared with epidural infusions of fentanyl alone for postoperative analgesia after total knee joint replacement. there were no detectable differences between the two groups in analgesia (visual analogue scale ranging between 15 and 40 mm), infusion rates (which averaged 7-9 ml/h), or serum fentanyl levels (which reached 1-2 ng/ml). the incidence of side effects, including nausea, vomiting, and pruritus, was also similar. of the patients receiving fentanyl and low-dose bupivacaine, one developed a transient unilateral motor and sensory loss, and one developed significant hypotension and respiratory depression. the addition of low-dose bupivacaine does not improve epidural fentanyl infusion analgesia after knee surgery and may increase morbidity.
clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. objective: to review the clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (osa). data source and selection: all articles on osa published in french and english between 1970 and 1990 and indexed in index medicus were reviewed. studies addressing the epidemiologic features and clinical aspects of osa were selected, and special emphasis was given to articles reporting the effects of treatment on morbidity and mortality rates. main results: osa is characterized by episodes of upper airway obstruction during sleep that result in repetitive hypoxemia and sleep disruption. osa leads to various neuropsychologic and cardiovascular complications, including daytime hypersomnolence, cognitive impairment, systemic and pulmonary hypertension and cardiac arrhythmias. there is suggestive evidence that the death rate among affected people is increased. the true incidence of osa is unknown, but estimates have varied from 1% upwards among men. the current treatment with the greatest overall effectiveness and acceptability is nasal continuous positive airway pressure. conclusion: this common, readily treatable disorder is associated with serious complications and therefore must be widely recognized by health professionals.
acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding in elderly persons [clinical conference] we have seen that ugi bleeding is a serious and apparently growing problem for seniors. of special concern in the older patient are the frequency with which serious peptic disease presents silently, the limitation frequently imposed on adequate pain relief from nsaids, and the higher complication rates from most of the causes of ugi bleeding. care of the elderly would be enhanced by research focused on defining those older patients most at risk of experiencing nsaid-induced peptic complications, improved methods for preventing or treating nsaid-induced ulceration that are well tolerated and cost-effective, and better regimens for preventing the recurrence of ulcers and ugi bleeding in these patients. in regard to the last, future investigation of the role of h. pylori, methods for successfully eliminating the organism, and the effect of eradication on patients' subsequent course may be particularly helpful.
mediastinal hibernoma, a rare tumor. hibernoma is an uncommon soft tissue tumor that is derived from the remnants of fetal brown fat. review of the world medical literature revealed 90 cases, 6 of which were intrathoracic. we present the seventh case of intrathoracic hibernoma; in this case, the hibernoma was within the mediastinum without direct invasion of other structures.
atherosclerotic carotid disease and the eye. the evaluation and management of retinal ischemia from atherosclerotic carotid disease is in a state of flux reflected by the change from emphasizing surgical management in the '70s toward skepticism about the benefit of surgery in the '80s. in addition, reliable noninvasive diagnostic testing of the carotid artery has reduced the risk. the decision to consider surgical versus medical management must be made on an individual basis based on the patient's health, age, and the risk of angiography and surgery at each institution. in children and young adults, amaurosis fugax is a benign condition. in the older population amaurosis fugax is often the sentinel event of diffuse atherosclerotic disease and possible early death from myocardial infarction. a team including the neurologist, internist, ophthalmologist, and surgeon optimizes care of the whole disease and not just the symptom. it is hoped that information in the next decade will supply additional guidance in the care of this multifaceted malady.
spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage: imaging and management. we report on 10 patients with spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage associated with underlying disease, including renal cell carcinoma (5), angiomyolipoma (2), malignant melanoma (1), periarteritis nodosa (1) and severe portal hypertension (1). the etiology could not be identified with computerized tomography (ct) in 5 cases (50%), including 2 renal cell carcinomas, 1 angiomyolipoma, 1 periarteritis nodosa and 1 portal hypertension. arteriography demonstrated underlying lesions in 4 of these 5 cases (80%) including the case of vasculitis. ct combined with magnetic resonance imaging is accurate for the diagnosis of spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage but the underlying pathological condition is often undetectable in the acute phase due to the perinephric blood. ct should be the first study performed if this diagnosis is suspected. arteriography is recommended if a renal mass is not detected. if a mass is not identified with these 2 imaging studies and the patient is clinically stable, followup thin slice ct should be performed.
correlation of clinical and computed tomographic findings in stroke patients. we evaluated the correlation between clinical features and computed tomographic findings in a prospective study of 1,191 consecutive patients with acute cerebrovascular disease seen during 1 year. in the 386 patients in whom symptoms and signs initially suggested a cerebrovascular disorder, computed tomography revealed a relevant lesion in 154 (hemorrhagic in 52 [33.8%], ischemic in 102 [66.2%]) and a significant nonstroke abnormality in 14 (3.1%). among the remaining 805 patients with symptoms and signs suggesting some central nervous system disorder other than stroke, computed tomography revealed a cerebrovascular lesion in 38 (4.7%); 35 of these lesions were ischemic. the computed tomographic findings was compatible with the final clinical diagnosis in 192 (84.2%) of the 228 patients with lesions. in the entire sample of 1,191 patients, a cerebrovascular disorder would have been missed in 38 (3.2%) without computed tomography. on the other hand, computed tomography failed to visualize a cerebrovascular lesion in 40 patients in whom such a lesion was clinically obvious. our results emphasize that both careful neurologic assessment and a policy of early computed tomography are of crucial importance in the diagnosis of stroke and for therapeutic considerations.
clinical features of adenovirus enteritis: a review of 127 cases. we retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus (ad) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period. serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases. there were 69 males and 58 females and 94% of patients were less than 4 years of age. the average body temperature was 38 degrees c rectal (range, 36.2-40.8 degrees c) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days. the average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days (range, 1 to 32 days). although ad 40 and ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases (59 of 105 (56%], ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases (17%). of the 18 cases associated with ad 31, 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea. our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric ad in infantile diarrhea (ad 40, ad 41) and suggests that ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by ad 40 and ad 41. the occurrence of ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital.
relative validity of self-reported snoring as a symptom of sleep apnea in a sleep clinic population the purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative validity of responses to three different questions about snoring as indicators for sleep apnea in a population referred to a sleep clinic. secondary goals were to evaluate the meaning of a "don't know" response to these questions and to examine how the associations between snoring and sleep apnea are influenced by demographics. results from 1,409 patients in a sleep clinic indicated that nearly all levels of estimated snoring frequency were associated with a greater likelihood of sleep apnea. in addition, a "don't know" response indicated a likelihood of sleep apnea. in the sample from this clinic, sensitivities approximating 90 percent were obtained in men, and specificities approximating 90 percent were obtained in women, but high diagnostic accuracy (high specificity in men; high sensitivity in women) could not be achieved with the three snoring questions used here. generally, associations between snoring and sleep apnea were independent of age and sex. single persons, persons living alone, and persons customarily sleeping alone of both sexes all showed associations between self-reported snoring and the presence of sleep apnea.
recurrent lateral rectus palsy in childhood. five patients with recurrent, lateral rectus palsy in childhood, examined at the university of iowa hospitals over a period of 22 years, are reported. during the same period, 131 abducens nerve palsy patients, younger than 18 years of age, were evaluated. eighteen similar patients, most single case reports, are reviewed from the literature. all reported patients, including our own, shared the following features: spontaneous recovery within 6 months in the majority of patients, ipsilateral recurrence, and painless palsy. there is female and left-sided preponderance. etiology is undetermined. hypotheses include viral etiology, neurovascular compression by aberrant artery, and migraine.
prevalence of angioid streaks and other ocular complications of paget's disease of bone. seventy randomly selected patients with paget's disease of bone were examined for ocular complications. the prevalence of macular degeneration and cataract was 24.3%. only one patient was found to have angioid streaks. eight patients had peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy. these findings suggest that the prevalence of serious ocular complications of paget's disease is not as high as previously thought. the significance of peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy requires further evaluation.
sterol-dependence of gastric protective activity of unsaturated phospholipids. the major aim of this study was to investigate the gastric protective effect of unsaturated phospholipids and to determine the ability of neutral lipids to enhance this activity. we found that although a liposomal suspension of unsaturated phosphatidylcholine (pc) administered intragastrically failed to protect rats from acid-induced gastric ulcer formation, addition of cholesterol to unsaturated pc induced a dose-dependent protective response with the maximally effective dose, reducing lesion score greater than 70%. this effect also was seen with the plant sterol, beta-sitosterol (reducing lesion score by 81.6 +/- 36%) but was blocked if cholesterol was esterified to fatty acids of varying chain length. addition of sterols to liposomes of saturated dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, in contrast, attenuated the gastric protective action of the saturated pc. it appears that the protective mechanism elicited by sterols and unsaturated pc is not mediated by alterations in gastric emptying rate or prostaglandin biosynthesis, although maintenance of surface hydrophobicity may be involved. these results suggest that the sterol may promote the packing of adjacent unsaturated phospholipid molecules of either the cell membrane or a putative extracellular hydrophobic lining of the gastric epithelium to provide the mucosa with protection against luminal acid.
the effect of graded doses of insulin on peripheral glucose uptake and lactate release in cancer cachexia. with the euglycemic clamp technique, we evaluated the effects of graded doses of insulin on glucose turnover rates and forearm lactate balance in five weight-losing patients with cancer before surgery and five age- and weight-matched healthy volunteers (control subjects). insulin was infused sequentially at increasing rates of 0.5 (low physiologic), 1.0 (high physiologic), and 4.0 (supraphysiologic) mu/kg.min for 120 minutes each. concurrently, rates of glucose appearance and disappearance were derived from [3-3h] glucose infusion. the mean postabsorptive rate of glucose appearance in patients (2.9 +/- 0.1 mg/kg.min) was significantly higher (p less than 0.02) than that of control subjects (1.98 +/- 0.16 mg/kg.min). complete suppression of endogenous glucose production occurred at high physiologic insulin concentrations. with progressive insulin infusion, the rate of glucose disappearance increased to 3.6 +/- 1.2, 8.7 +/- 0.8, and 13.7 +/- 1.1 mg/kg/min in control subjects and 2.9 +/- 0.4, 5.3 +/- 0.3, and 10.9 +/- 0.9 mg/kg.min in patients, significantly different from that of control subjects (p less than 0.05) during the intermediate (high physiologic) insulin infusion. a comparable slight increase in arterial plasma lactate concentration was observed in both groups with progressive hyperinsulinemia. baseline peripheral lactate flux was identical in patients (-272 +/- 56 nmol/100 gm.min) and in controls (-271 +/- 57 nmol/100 gm.min). progressive physiologic hyperinsulinemia resulted in significantly (p less than 0.05) augmented peripheral lactate efflux in patients (-824 +/- 181 nmol/100 gm.min) compared with control subjects (-287 +/- 64 nmol/100 gm.min). supraphysiologic insulin abolished this increased lactate efflux in patients. postabsorptive rates of endogenous glucose appearance in weight-losing patients with cancer were elevated, but complete suppression was achieved with insulin concentrations in the physiologic range. total body glucose use was diminished in these patients, consistent with a state of insulin resistance. this impaired insulin action on peripheral glucose use was associated with an increase in peripheral lactate release in patients.
cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor. seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found. in two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed. in five patients, in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum, conservative operations (three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections) were performed, thus avoiding needless, more extensive surgery.
time course of cellular enzyme release in dog heart injury. the transport time of enzyme from heart to plasma was studied in two experimental models. first, the enzyme alanine aminotransferase was slowly infused into the left ventricular wall in open-chest dogs. the half-life for the washout of alanine aminotransferase activity into plasma was 20 +/- 4 minutes (mean +/- sem, n = 8) and was not different in ischemic and normally perfused tissue. from measurements of arteriovenous differences in alanine aminotransferase activity and left ventricular blood flow, it was concluded that 77 +/- 14% of total enzyme washout from ischemic tissue occurred by direct entry into the bloodstream. the corresponding value for the vascular permeability-surface area product was 264 +/- 55 ml.kg-1.hr-1. for a second model, we studied myocardial enzyme release into plasma after abrupt heart injury induced by 10 minutes of calcium-free coronary perfusion followed by reintroduction of calcium (calcium-paradox mechanism). the half-life for the release into plasma was 1.9 +/- 0.2 hours (mean +/- sem, n = 6) and was again not influenced by sustained ischemia. slower washout, as observed for this second model, is consistent with increased interstitial protein space and corresponds to a permeability--surface area product between 135 and 285 ml.kg-1.hr-1. these results were used to calculate the time course of cellular enzyme leakage from the rate of enzyme release into plasma in various forms of heart injury. significant shifts between the time curves of evolving cellular injury and enzyme release into plasma are observed after 2 hours of ischemia followed by coronary reperfusion, but not after permanent ischemia.
mutagen sensitivity in patients with head and neck cancers: a biologic marker for risk of multiple primary malignancies. eighty-four patients with head and neck cancers were evaluated for in vitro sensitivity to mutagens and then followed longitudinally for development of multiple primary malignancies. we assessed mutagen sensitivity by exposing lymphocytes to bleomycin in vitro and quantitating the bleomycin-induced chromosomal breaks per cell. the mutagen-hypersensitive patients, ie, those who expressed greater than 1.0 break per cell, were significantly more likely to develop multiple primary cancers than were patients who were less sensitive (less than or equal to 1.0 break per cell) (relative risk = 4.4; 95% confidence limits = 1.2, 15.8). this relationship was independent of age, sex, site, and treatment of first primary cancer and tobacco or alcohol exposures. sensitivity to bleomycin-induced chromosomal damage serves as an indicator of genetic susceptibility to multiple primary malignancies in patients with head and neck cancers.
anorectal varices--their frequency in cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. anorectal varices in portal hypertension have been little studied: seventy eight per cent of 72 patients with portal hypertension had anorectal varices shown at flexible sigmoidoscopy. significantly more patients with noncirrhotic portal hypertension had these varices than patients with cirrhosis (89% v 56%, p less than 0.01).
common nonvenereal genital lesions. there are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region. these lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms. the purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease.
advances in noninvasive detection of cad. advances in the noninvasive detection of myocardial ischemia are increasing our ability to diagnose coronary artery disease (cad). tomographic (spect) thallium imaging provides better identification of coronary arteries with atherosclerotic narrowing. increased lung thallium uptake and transient ischemic dilatation of the heart are additional markers of severe cad. late thallium imaging, as well as reinjection imaging, provides more accurate identification of myocardial ischemia. finally, new myocardial ischemia. finally, new myocardial imaging agents, such as technetium tc 99m sestamibi (cardiolite), should improve detection of cad by noninvasive methods.
what to do when an x-ray film suggests lung cancer. the chest film is one of the most common methods of detecting lung cancer, which often appears as solitary nodules or hilar masses. once the diagnosis is established, the most effective treatment can be determined and staging of the tumor can be done. surgical resection is the only cure for non-small-cell carcinoma, although radiotherapy and chemotherapy may shrink some tumors. because 90% of all cases are caused by smoking, a preventive approach to the disease is crucial. screening of high-risk patients (ie, smokers with airflow obstruction) using chest films and sputum cytology may aid this approach.
elevated plasma noradrenaline concentrations in patients with low-output cardiac failure: dependence on increased noradrenaline secretion rates. 1. plasma noradrenaline concentrations are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure; however, the pathogenesis of these elevated noradrenaline levels is controversial. 2. possible mechanisms for elevated noradrenaline concentrations in patients with congestive heart failure include increased noradrenaline secretion, decreased clearance of noradrenaline, and a combination of increased secretion and decreased clearance. 3. in the present study, plasma noradrenaline clearance and apparent secretion rates were determined using a whole-body steady-state radionuclide tracer method in six otherwise healthy patients with moderate degrees of low-output cardiac failure and in six normal control subjects. 4. the venous plasma noradrenaline level was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure as compared with the control subjects (4.18 +/- 1.34 versus 1.54 +/- 0.16 nmol/l, p less than 0.05). there was no stimulation of the adrenal medulla as evident by normal plasma adrenaline levels in both groups (0.19 +/- 0.04 versus 0.18 +/- 0.02 nmol/l, not significant). the apparent secretion rate of noradrenaline was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure (4.75 +/- 1.95 versus 1.78 +/- 0.18 nmol min-1 m-2, p less than 0.05), whereas the clearance rate of noradrenaline was similar in the two groups (1.26 +/- 0.27 versus 1.16 +/- 0.02 l min-1 m-2, not significant). 5. we conclude that the high peripheral venous plasma noradrenaline concentrations in patients with mildly decompensated low-output cardiac failure are initially due to increased secretion, rather than to decreased metabolic clearance, perhaps in response to diminished effective arterial blood volume.
ethyl chloride and venepuncture pain: a comparison with intradermal lidocaine. one hundred and twenty unpremedicated patients undergoing gynaecological surgery were randomly allocated to one of three equal treatment groups to assess the effectiveness of ethyl chloride in producing instant skin anaesthesia to prevent the pain of venepuncture from a 20 g cannula. they received either no anaesthetic, 0.2 ml one per cent lidocaine plain intradermally or a ten-second spray of ethyl chloride at the cannulation site. ethyl chloride produced skin anaesthesia that significantly reduced the pain of venepuncture. however, it was not as effective as intradermal lidocaine. it had no effect on vein visualisation or ease of cannulation. ethyl chloride can be recommended as a method of producing instant skin anaesthesia.
radiology of esophagitis: a pattern approach. this article presents a pattern approach for diagnosing esophagitis at double-contrast esophagography. in patients with nodular elevations of the mucosa, discrete plaques should suggest candida esophagitis, whereas poorly defined nodules should suggest reflux esophagitis and a distinctive reticular pattern of the mucosa should suggest barrett esophagus, particularly if adjacent to the distal aspect of a high stricture. in patients with ulceration, one or more shallow ulcers at or near the gastroesophageal junction should suggest reflux esophagitis, whereas discrete, superficial ulcers in the midesophagus should suggest herpes or drug-induced esophagitis, depending on the clinical setting. in contrast, one or more giant, relatively flat ulcers should suggest cytomegalovirus esophagitis, particularly in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. finally, thickened longitudinal folds may be caused by esophagitis, varices, or, rarely, "varicoid" carcinoma, but these conditions usually can be differentiated on radiologic grounds. by carefully analyzing the appearance and location of nodules, plaques, ulcers, or abnormal folds in the esophagus, one can usually suggest a cause of the disease.
febrile status epilepticus as part of a study of status epilepticus in children (maytal j, shinnar s, moshe sl, alvarez la. pediatrics. 1989; 83:323-331); 44 children with febrile convulsions lasting more than 30 minutes were followed for a mean of 28 months (range 4 to 72). thirty children were followed prospectively. children with prior afebrile seizures or evidence of acute central nervous system infection were excluded. nine (20%) children had prior neurological deficits. the duration of the febrile seizure was 0.5 to 1 hour in 41 cases (85%), 1 to 2 hours in 5 (10%), and greater than 2 hours in 2 children (5%). no child died or developed new neurological deficits following the seizures. the risk of recurrent seizures was increased, but only in the group with prior neurological abnormality. six (66%) of these children had subsequent febrile seizures compared with 12 (34%) of the normal children (p = .08). three (33%) had recurrent febrile status epilepticus compared with only 1 (3%) normal child (p = .023). the 2 children in the prospective arm of the study with recurrent febrile status epilepticus were both neurologically abnormal (p = .035). all 3 of the children who subsequently had afebrile seizures (2 prospective) were neurologically abnormal (p = .006 overall, p = .035 for prospective only). it is concluded that the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in a neurologically impaired child is a risk factor for subsequent febrile as well as afebrile seizures. the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in an otherwise normal child does not significantly increase the risk for subsequent febrile (brief or prolonged) or afebrile seizures in the first few years following the episode.
prognosis of hospital survivors after salvage from cardiopulmonary bypass with centrifugal cardiac assist. since october 1986, 6 hospital survivors who were salvaged from cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) with the sarns centrifugal pump were observed. centrifugal assist was employed only after failure to wean with usual resuscitative measures, including multiple high dose inotropes and intraaortic balloon pumping. there were five men and one woman, 46-59 years of age (mean 61 years). all patients had undergone coronary artery bypass grafting, with two patients having had concomitant left ventricular aneurysmectomy and two aortic valve replacement. five patients had left ventricular assist only and one had biventricular assist. duration of assist ranged from 26 to 72 hr (mean 48 hr). complications were ubiquitous, and the resultant prolonged hospitalization was resource intensive. all hospital survivors remain alive and are in new york heart association functional class ii, with an average follow-up of 24 months, (6-41 months). compared with preoperative values, current left ventricular function is improved in 2 patients, has deteriorated in 3, and is unchanged in 1. thus, the sarns centrifugal pump will allow salvage of some patients who otherwise are not weanable from cpb. survivors can expect a reasonable functional capacity as reflected by this experience.
complications of general anesthesia for nd:yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors. we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd:yag laser endobronchial tumor resection. the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed. preoperative status, anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome. twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction. longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal. cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention. variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age. perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd: yag laser resection. short-acting neuromuscular relaxants, careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation, limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd: yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors.
the cutaneous manifestations in children with familial mediterranean fever (recurrent hereditary polyserositis). a six-year study. in a six-year study of 46 children with familial mediterranean fever (recurrent hereditary polyserositis), 20 children (43 per cent) developed cutaneous manifestations. ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease. twelve children (26 per cent) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children (13 per cent) had nine episodes of henoch-schonlein purpura. other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face, and/or trunk, angioneurotic oedema, diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin, raynaud's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule. the mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6/patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4/patient/year after colchicine therapy (p = 0.0005). the high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial mediterranean fever.
intestinal cryptosporidiosis: pathophysiologic alterations and specific cellular and humoral immune responses in rnu/+ and rnu/rnu (athymic) rats. in order to develop an experimental model of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis in an immunosuppressed mammal, we investigated the pathophysiology of infection with cryptosporidium and the humoral and cellular host responses in rnu/rnu (athymic) rats and their heterozygous (rnu/+) littermates by challenging suckling rats with greater than or equal to 2.5 x 10(6) cryptosporidium oocytes oro-gastrically. normal and immunodeficient animals were followed for onset and duration of infection (fecal oocysts), physiologic consequences (diarrhea, impaired weight gain, brush-border enzyme activities), and immunologic response (both b- and t-lymphocyte-mediated). homozygosity for the rnu gene was associated with protracted cryptosporidial infections; shedding for up to 52 days occurred, and delay in weight gain was noted in rnu/rnu-infected compared with rnu/rnu-uninfected rats (p less than 0.05). in contrast, cryptosporidial challenge of rnu/+ rats resulted in self-resolving infections, occasionally with transient diarrhea lasting four days or less occurring 10-15 days after oro-gastric challenge. the latter animals mounted a cell-mediated immune response to cryptosporidium: three months after challenge, five of five rnu/+ rats demonstrated positive skin test responses to a subcutaneous 3.5 micrograms dose of cryptosporidial antigen. further, sera from 6 rnu/+ rats taken two to three months after oro-gastric oocyst challenge exhibited specific anticryptosporidial immunoglobulin binding (a405 = 0.96), compared to that of seven uninfected rnu/+ controls (a405 = 0.09, p less than 0.02). macromolecules of 150, 105, and 88 kd in the cryptosporidium antigen preparation were bound by serum immunoglobulin from previously infected, recovered rnu/+ rats. two brush-border enzymes (lactase and alkaline phosphatase) were markedly reduced in the ileum 8-10 days after oro-gastric challenge in rats with diarrhea and oocyst shedding. we find the rnu/rnu (athymic, nude) rat provides a useful model for study of prolonged cryptosporidial infection with impaired weight loss, brush-border enzyme alteration and intermittent diarrhea. these studies further suggest that a t-lymphocyte population is involved in recovery from cryptosporidium infection and that this recovery is associated with both cellular and humoral immune responses to specific cryptosporidial antigenic macromolecules. this model should open further avenues for the study of the pathogenesis and protective immunity in cryptosporidial infection.
echographic diagnosis of dural carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas. i used standardized ophthalmic echography to identify specific abnormalities in four patients with low-pressure, low-flow dural arteriovenous malformations. in all of the patients, b-scan ultrasonography showed engorgement of the ipsilateral vertical vein. a-scan ultrasonography dynamically imaged rapid blood flow through the superior ophthalmic vein and enlargement of the culpable ocular muscles in patients with restrictive ophthalmopathy. the 30-degree test distinguished between venous engorgement of the optic nerve sheath and apical compression of the optic nerve by enlarged ocular muscles.
stress management in the treatment of mild primary hypertension. the use of simple relaxation-based stress management procedures in the treatment of mild primary hypertension has been the subject of extensive study. stress management appears to lead to reliably greater reductions in pressure than a variety of control procedures. the mechanisms underlying these effects are obscure, and research has not identified which patients will benefit most from treatment. preliminary data suggest that stress management may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease, but much research must be done if this is to be confirmed. it is suggested that such research should take into account the possibility that stress management may have beneficial effects on more than just hypertension-related aspects of the cardiovascular disease process.
traumatic retinal detachment. seventy-seven patients developed retinal breaks following an episode of ocular contusion, and 65 (84.4%) of these developed rhegmatogenous retinal detachment. surgical treatment successfully restored or maintained retinal apposition in 74 (96.1%) of the eyes. thirty-six (46.8%) eyes recovered visual acuity of 6/9 or better. of the retinal breaks recognised dialysis at the ora serrata was observed in 49 eyes, of which 28 were situated at the lower temporal quadrant. seventeen eyes had irregular breaks arising within necrotic retina at the site of scleral impact. twenty-four (31.2%) patients had retinal break or retinal detachment diagnosed within 24 hours of injury and 49 (63.6%) within six weeks. immediate retinal detachment was a feature of necrotic retinal breaks, while inferior oral dialyses led to a slow accumulation of subretinal fluid. delayed diagnosis of retinal detachment was due either to opaque media or to failure to examine the retina after injury. visual prognosis was good when retinal break or detachment were diagnosed within six weeks of injury. however, those patients who escaped initial retinal examination and were lost to follow-up had a less favourable visual outcome.
hla class ii antigens and dna restriction fragment length polymorphism in myasthenia gravis in japan. human leukocyte phenotypes and genes in the hla class ii regions were studied in 46 japanese patients with myasthenia gravis. when the hla phenotypes of the patients with myasthenia gravis were compared with the controls, an increased frequency of hla-drw53 was observed in females less than 30 years of age. the genomic dnas of the hla-drw53-positive patients and drw53-positive controls were analyzed by using four complementary dna probes for hla class ii genes. with dqb complementary dna as the probe, a higher incidence of the 6.5-kb or 8.2-kb bamhi fragment was observed in the patients (76.0%) compared with the controls (19.0%). in contrast, no significant difference was observed between patients and controls when complementary dnas for drb, dqa, and dpb were used as probes. these results indicate that the genetic background of japanese females with early-onset myasthenia gravis is different from other patients with myasthenia gravis, and that dqb genes can greatly influence the onset of myasthenia gravis.
embolism during caesarean section. we investigated the occurrence of gas embolism during caesarean section using a doppler ultrasound probe and found that it occurs between uterine incision and delivery. embolism is less common during general anaesthesia than has been reported during regional anaesthesia. both ruptured membranes and a protracted uterine incision to delivery interval predispose to embolism.
a study of the effects of delapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, on the diurnal variation of arterial pressure in patients with essential hypertension using indirect and direct arterial pressure monitoring methods. in order to investigate the effect of delapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, on the diurnal variation of arterial pressure in patients with essential hypertension, this study examined 24 h arterial pressure using an indirect or a direct monitoring system. when the effect of twice-a-day administration of delapril at daily doses of 30 to 90 mg was examined using the indirect monitoring system in 12 outpatients, delapril decreased systolic and diastolic arterial pressures significantly only at limited points during the day. however, each of the averaged 24 h daytime and nighttime arterial pressures showed significant reductions. the 24 h intraarterial pressure monitoring demonstrated that delapril decreased systolic and diastolic arterial pressure at most of the measurement points. the arterial pressure reductions during daytime and nighttime were not significantly different, that is, there was no excessive reduction in nighttime arterial pressure. heart rate and its variability were virtually unaffected by the delapril treatment in either monitoring study. no adverse reactions were observed in the indirect or direct monitoring studies. thus, it is concluded that twice-a-day administration of delapril at daily doses of 30 to 90 mg brings about a safe and stable antihypertensive effect, without affecting the diurnal variation of arterial pressure.
unusual cerebral manifestations in hereditary fructose intolerance. five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment. in three of them, neurological involvement was related to the acute hepatic toxicity of fructose (hypoglycemia, abnormal coagulation, cardiovascular collapse); in the other two, such a relationship could not be demonstrated. neurological impairment is not classic in hereditary fructose intolerance, but its occurrence in the acute phase of the disease is possible and does not constitute an argument against the diagnosis.
phenotypic relationships of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive prostatic carcinoma. thirty-one snap-frozen human prostate specimens containing examples of benign hyperplasia, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (pin), and invasive carcinoma were analyzed using a panel of 24 antibodies and one lectin. twenty-seven additional routinely processed radical prostatectomy specimens were studied using selected probes known to work on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material. three probes, anticytokeratin ka4, anti-vimentin v9, and the lectin from ulex europaeus (uea-1), demonstrated phenotypic similarities between pin and invasive carcinoma. whereas the luminal cells of normal or hyperplastic prostatic epithelium are minimally reactive with ka4 (4%) or uea-1 (0%) and strongly reactive with anti-vimentin (91%), both the pin and invasive carcinoma are reactive with ka4 (89% and 93%, respectively) and uea-1 (96% and 93%, respectively) and minimally reactive with anti-vimentin (15% and 0%, respectively). the increased ka4 staining was shown to be in part due to detection of cytokeratin 19, by using cytokeratin-19-specific antibodies, 4.62 and lp2k. the reasons for the increased expression of this cytokeratin and the decreased expression of vimentin are unclear but seem to indicate a phenotypic relationship between the pin lesions and invasive carcinoma.
a predominantly adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. a 61-year-old woman who presented with diabetes, nausea, weight loss and sweating was found to have a phaeochromocytoma secreting adrenaline, with a small amount of n-methyladrenaline. there was no significant increase in noradrenaline secretion. she was normotensive, and developed profound hypotension in response to the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine. these features are unusual in phaeochromocytoma, but similar features occurred in the very few previous reported cases of pure adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. we conclude that it is important to identify such patients, so that they should not be given alpha-adrenergic antagonist drugs.
epidermoid cyst (monodermal teratoma) of the testis. we report 14 patients with epidermoid cyst of the testis (monodermal teratoma). in 7 patients (5 treated within the last 5 years) the mass was excised and adjacent testicular tissue was biopsied. seven patients underwent radical inguinal orchiectomy. carcinoma in situ was not detected in any testicular tissue examined. there was no evidence of tumour recurrence in any patient after a mean follow-up of 10 years. ultrasonographic appearance was not specific for a diagnosis of epidermoid cyst and exploratory surgery was required in all cases. excision of the tumour and biopsy of adjacent testicular tissue to determine the presence or absence of carcinoma in situ is adequate treatment for this rare testicular neoplasm.
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of gastroepiploic artery graft. the right gastroepiploic artery is being used as a third arterial conduit for coronary artery bypass surgery. presented here is a case demonstrating successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the gastroepiploic artery graft. this successful accomplishment may avoid repeat surgical revascularization in case of failure of the gastroepiploic artery graft, hence may encourage people to use it more often.
reoperation for colorectal carcinoma. in the management of the patient with intra-abdominal recurrence of colorectal carcinoma, surgery remains the primary mode of therapy when cure or significant palliation is anticipated. appreciation of the importance of close follow-up after primary resection coupled with improved diagnostic modalities has allowed the surgeon not only to detect earlier recurrence but also to select the patients most likely to benefit from resection of recurrent disease. improved surgical techniques with resultant decreases in the rates of morbidity and mortality have allowed safe hepatic resection of metastatic disease. in selected patients, this procedure produces 5-year survival rates approaching 50%. although a clear consensus has not been reached, most studies agree that positive prognostic indicators include absence of extrahepatic disease, a small number of intrahepatic lesions, a low cea level, and a better dukes stage of the primary. likewise, in the patient with recurrent disease locally, surgery provides the only means of cure and also plays a significant role in palliation. aggressive resection with generous surgical margins in patients with contained disease may yield 5-year survival rates approaching 35%. in patients with unresectable disease and even in those with carcinomatosis, palliation can be obtained by surgical therapy. judgment is necessary in treating these patients both preoperatively and intraoperatively. surgical intervention for obstruction, perforation, or other anatomic or physiological compromise is often indicated and can improve the quality of life of the patient with intra-abdominal recurrence.
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men. an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35- to 76-year-old men. the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed. snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews. in 86 cases there was a history of 'habitual' (almost always or always) snoring, and 88 men snored 'often'. the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years. the mean body mass index (bmi) was 26.3 kg m-2. among the obese snorers (n = 82), apnoeas had been observed 'occasionally', 'often', or 'habitually' in 49 cases. death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 (40.4%) cases. cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never (p less than 0.05). 'habitual' snorers died more often while sleeping (p less than 0.05). habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death (p less than 0.01). the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer.
migraine and vertebrobasilar ischemia. i studied 9 patients with migraine and posterior circulation ischemia. inclusion criteria were (1) brainstem or cerebellar infarcts or transient ischemic attacks, (2) satisfactory vertebrobasilar angiograms, and (3) migraine. excluded were patients with only occipital lobe ischemia, known arteriosclerosis, or other nonmigrainous vascular disease. two women and 7 men, ages 6 to 58 years (mean, 34.7), had transient attacks only (2), single strokes (4), single stroke followed by attacks (1), or multiple strokes (2). five had antecedent classic, 2 common migraine, and classic migraine began only after the initial ischemic event in the other two. the 7 stroke patients all had ct- or mri-documented brainstem (4) or cerebellar (6) infarcts. angiography was normal (3) or demonstrated basilar artery (ba) narrowing (2) or occlusion (4), or branch occlusion (1). in 3 patients the initially occluded ba later reopened. at follow-up (average 4.3 years, range 1 to 9 years), 5 were normal and 4 had important clinical deficits. i conclude that (1) "basilar migraine" is not always benign; it affects both sexes and a wide age range; (2) the pattern of headaches, attacks, and strokes varies; (3) migraine may appear only after ischemia; (4) some patients have ba occlusion or diffuse narrowing; and (5) ba occlusion can be temporary.
sweet's syndrome with lung involvement. severe dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates were associated with recurrent episodes of sweet's syndrome (acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis) in a 54-yr-old woman with myelodysplasia. lung and skin biopsies revealed a sterile infiltration of the interstitial tissues by mature neutrophils. corticosteroid therapy resulted in rapid clinical improvement; however, recurrent episodes were increasingly resistant to therapy, and she ultimately died from respiratory failure. sweet's syndrome involving the lung is rare, with only two previously reported cases documented by lung biopsy. prompt recognition of sweet's syndrome with lung involvement is important because of the potential for severe respiratory compromise.
structural and ultrastructural study of the ovary in childhood leukemia after successful treatment. ovarian biopsy specimens from ten girls (three postmenarcheal) who had undergone antiblastic treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and were in complete remission were examined by light microscope. the biopsy specimens from four of these patients (three postmenarcheal) were also observed by electron microscope. the structural and ultrastructural analysis showed a reduction in the number of follicles which were otherwise normal. no follicles were found in the thin sections from two of the three postmenarcheal girls, whereas normal follicles were observed in the third. the cortical stroma showed moderate to severe signs of fibrosis and changes of capillaries. all of these alterations were more evident in patients where all was diagnosed at an older age and this finding suggests that they are at a higher risk for low fertility or early menopause.
endometrial ablation for the treatment of menorrhagia: a comparison of patients with normal, enlarged, and fibroid uteri. one hundred sixty-one patients underwent endometrial ablation with the nd:yag laser for the treatment of refractory menorrhagia. patients were divided into one of three groups: those with a normal-sized uterus; those with an enlarged uterus (greater than 10 cm); and those with uterine fibroids, which had been documented clinically, ultrasonographically, or by a combination of hysteroscopy and laparoscopy or by one or the other. all patients were considered candidates for hysterectomy. both preoperatively and postoperatively, patients monitored their menstrual cycles and evaluated their flow according to predetermined categories of amenorrhea, light flow, normal flow, heavy flow, and severe flow. after treatment, 68% of patients with normal-sized uterus and 91% of patients with an enlarged uterus (greater than 10 cm) and 88% of patients with uterine fibroids became amenorrheic or had light flow. none of the patients in this last group have had to undergo hysterectomy. this study indicates that the patient with an enlarged or fibroid uterus may not have contraindications for endometrial ablation. endometrial ablation may be effective in at least temporarily controlling bleeding in those patients with enlarged or myomatous uterus.
the value of pulmonary artery and central venous monitoring in patients undergoing abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery: a comparative study of two selected, randomized groups. one hundred two patients undergoing abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery were prospectively, randomly allocated to two groups, one of which was monitored with a central venous catheter and the other with a pulmonary artery catheter. patients with uncompensated cardiopulmonary or renal disease were excluded from the study. general anesthesia was administered for the surgical procedure, and the patients were followed through hospital discharge. no statistically significant differences occurred between the two groups with regard to morbidity (perioperative cardiac, pulmonary or renal sequelae), mortality rate, duration of intensive care, postoperative hospital stay, or cost of hospitalization. the one statistically significant difference between groups was the professional fee charged for anesthetic care, which was higher for patients with pulmonary artery catheters than for those with central venous catheters. in conclusion, we prospectively gathered data from most patients presented for abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery. our data seem to indicate that the choice of central venous catheter or pulmonary artery catheter monitoring makes little difference in outcome after abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery, and that for many patients pulmonary artery catheters are not necessary to give appropriate, adequate care. because of the size of the sample, however, declarations of epidemiologic significance would be unfounded. therefore large-scale, multicenter studies addressing such outcomes remain necessary.
histopathology and immunohistochemistry of the caecum in children with the trichuris dysentery syndrome. caecal biopsy specimens from jamaican children with the trichuris dysentery syndrome (tds) and age matched jamaican controls were investigated by immunohistochemistry and by light microscopy. biopsy specimens from all children (with tds and controls) showed a mild to moderate increase in inflammatory cells. except in the vicinity of the worm, where the epithelium was flattened, there was no other epithelial abnormality. compared with controls, children with tds had increased igm lamina propria plasma cells and decreased intraepithelial t cells. there was also an increase in crypt epithelial cell proliferation. lamina propria t cells (both activated and non-activated) were no more common in children with the trichuris syndrome than controls. epithelial cell hla-dr and vla-1 expression (which are increased in other colitides) were the same in both groups. despite the presence of large worm burdens and chronic dysentery, therefore, only minor changes were seen in the caecal mucosa of children with tds.
salvage from cardiogenic shock by atherectomy after failed emergency coronary artery angioplasty. in this case report of a patient undergoing angioplasty for cardiogenic shock during acute myocardial infarction, recurrent occlusion resulted in recurrence of shock. atherectomy reestablished lasting patency and reversed the patient's hemodynamic collapse. atherectomy deserves further investigation as a means to salvage vessel patency during unsuccessful coronary angioplasty.
late effects of paralytic poliomyelitis in olmsted county, minnesota. we identified a cohort of 300 individuals who had paralytic polio between 1935 and 1955. all lived in olmsted county, minnesota. from the 247 survivors, we selected 50 subjects for detailed historical, functional, psychological, clinical, and electrophysiologic evaluation. sixty-four percent of these 50 survivors complained of new symptoms of muscle pain, fatigue, and weakness after a period of prolonged stability. this led to changes in lifestyle or activity in only 18%. the likelihood of expressing new complaints was not related to present age or interval since polio, and electrophysiologic testing did not distinguish between those with or without new problems. the development of new difficulties in a limb was most strongly predicted by significant paralysis of that limb at the time of the acute illness. patients with leg weakness were twice as likely to complain of new problems compared to those with arm weakness. elevated creatine kinase levels were present only in those with new complaints.
bladder cancer. human leukocyte antigen ii, interleukin-6, and interleukin-6 receptor expression determined by the polymerase chain reaction. the prediction of tumour biology rarely rests upon a single characteristic of the malignancy. the analysis of a single gene can complement standard histologic evaluation. the investigation of new parameters as well as the routine clinical analysis of gene expression is often limited because of the small amount of tissue available. this is particularly true of de novo human bladder cancers because they are generally small or handled in such a way as to hinder the analysis of multiple different parameters. analysis of expressed mrna by the polymerase chain reaction (rna/pcr) is a method that allows the development of a profile of bladder cancer gene expression. the authors report the use of the rna/pcr method to examine in bladder cancer the expression of the human leukocyte antigen (hla) class ii gene family (hla-dr, dq, and dp) as well as interleukin-6 (il-6) and the interleukin-6 receptor (il-6r). all de novo transitional cell carcinomas, one squamous carcinoma, and two transitional cell carcinoma cell lines expressed the majority of hla class ii genes. all samples expressed il-6r rna whereas production of il-6 message was limited to one of the cell lines and to the high-grade bladder cancers. these results were combined with stage, grade, and dna content to develop a profile of the cancers examined. although an improved predictive index based on gene expression analysis by rna/pcr has not been realized, a broader survey of human tumors for expression of these genes and others is likely to refine the classification of bladder cancer.
cardiac disease in the alcoholic patient. ethanol in acute low doses is believed to be relatively nontoxic to the normal myocardium, despite data indicating low-level contractility impairment. in patients with myocardial disease, or as the serum ethanol concentration is increased to high levels, angina, myocardial infarction, and arrhythmia may be potentiated. chronic ethanol use, at moderate doses, may be protective against coronary artery disease, despite increased rates of hypertension. alcohol consumption at high doses may result in dilated cardiomyopathy and a dismal prognosis. alcohol abuse is associated with increased mortality.
primary peritoneal sarcoidosis. a 14-year-old male was admitted for the evaluation of tense exudative ascites. despite thorough evaluation, the diagnosis remained cryptic until peritoneoscopy revealed diffuse studding of the entire visualized peritoneum with multiple miliary nodules, and peritoneal biopsy demonstrated multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas. after other causes were excluded, a diagnosis of sarcoidosis was considered and confirmed with classic endobronchial findings at bronchoscopy. involvement of the peritoneum with sarcoidosis is rare and, to our knowledge, only one other case describes this as the initial manifestation of this disease.
reversible nerve conduction block in patients with polyneuropathy after ultrasound thermotherapy at therapeutic dosage. this study investigated the effect of ultrasound on nerve conduction in patients with polyneuropathy. eight able-bodied controls (group c) and 16 patients with clinical and physiologic evidence of polyneuropathy were tested. eight patients (group np) had no aching pain symptoms; eight patients (group p) had severe aching pain, burning sensation, unpleasant tingling, and/or hyperesthesia in the lower extremities. for two minutes, therapeutic ultrasound in doses of 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5w/cm2 were applied over the anterior surface of the leg along the pathway of the deep peroneal nerve. peroneal nerve conduction studies were performed before, during, and after ultrasound treatment. the compound muscle action potential (cmap) was recorded from the extensor digitorum brevis muscle. nerve conduction studies on all eight patients in group p revealed a significant decrease (41.4% and 44% reduced for doses of 1.0w/cm2 and 1.5w/cm2, respectively; p less than .05) in amplitude of cmap (from baseline to the first negative peak), and an increase (6.4% and 6.7% increased for doses of 1.0w/cm2 and 1.5w/cm2, respectively; p less than .05) in proximal latency one minute after ultrasound application with a dose of 1.0 or 1.5w/cm2, but not with a dose of 0.5w/cm2 (p greater than 0.1). changes returned to pretreatment values within five minutes of cessation of ultrasound therapy. in groups c and np, there were no significant changes in amplitudes of cmap or proximal latency before, during, or after ultrasound therapy at a dose of 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5w/cm2. it was concluded that ultrasonic therapy with therapeutic dosage may cause a reversible conduction block on patients with painful polyneuropathy.
limitations of faecal chymotrypsin as a screening test for chronic pancreatitis. faecal chymotrypsin was measured in patients with chronic pancreatitis and in healthy black urban and rural control subjects. in the patients, significantly lower values of faecal chymotrypsin were obtained (mean (sd) 2.4 1.79 u/g stool) whereas in urban control subjects, values were within the normal range (mean (sd) 13.2 (11.9)). in rural black control subjects, however, the faecal chymotrypsin value was significantly lower (mean (sd) 7.1 (5.1)) than in urban black control subjects. it is suggested that faecal ph may influence faecal chymotrypsin values. the mean faecal ph in rural black subjects (ph 6.14) was significantly lower than that in urban control subjects (ph 6.77) and in patients with chronic pancreatitis (ph 6.61). moreover, mean faecal chymotrypsin is high (20.0 u/g stool) at a ph greater than 7. between ph 6 and 7 the mean value drops to 8.6 u/g stool and below ph 6 mean faecal chymotrypsin is in the abnormal range (4.4 u/g stool). hence, low values for faecal chymotrypsin may be due to lower faecal ph (less than 6) in healthy control subjects. for diagnostic purposes, the faecal ph value should be determined if a low faecal chymotrypsin value is obtained.
levels of serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients with infections. to clarify the physiologic roles of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf) in infectious states in vivo, we examined the serum levels of g-csf in patients with infection. serum samples from 24 patients in the acute stage of infection (14 men and 10 women, age 65 to 101, without hematologic disorders), as well as samples from 32 age-matched normal elderly volunteers were investigated. sixteen of the initial 24 patients were reexamined after the recovery phase. g-csf levels were examined by quantitative enzyme immunoassay. the g-csf level in normal elderly controls, 25.3 +/- 19.7 pg/ml, was not different from that reported in other findings. there was no statistically significant relationship between their g-csf level and peripheral white blood cell count or neutrophilic granulocyte count. the g-csf level in the acute stage of infection was 731.8 +/- 895.0 pg/ml, with a range of 30 to 3,199 pg/ml. there was no significant difference in g-csf levels between patients with respiratory tract infection and those with urinary tract infection. in all 16 cases examined, the serum g-csf level in the acute stage of infection was significantly higher than that after recovery phase, the latter being the same as the level in normal elderly controls. g-csf must therefore play a significant role in human infectious states in vivo.
collateral circulation in kawasaki disease with coronary occlusion or severe stenosis. forty patients with kawasaki disease with severe coronary sequelae were investigated. all had at least a 90% reduction in the diameter of the major coronary artery. collateral vessels were seen in 32 of 33 (97%) patients with total occlusion. all patients with severe stenosis but not total occlusion had no or poorly developed collateral vessels. analysis according to the presence or absence of collateral vessels showed no significant differences in the results of treadmill stress testing and myocardial imaging between these two groups. in patients treated surgically, the abnormalities recognized by these tests were normalized or improved when the bypass was patent. these data indicate that collateral circulation in patients with kawasaki disease cannot be seen angiographically unless there is total occlusion and the presence of collateral circulation cannot provide protection against stress-induced myocardial ischemia.
examination by logistic regression modelling of the variables which increase the relative risk of elderly women falling compared to elderly men. in a community based, prospective study to determine risk factors for falls, 465 women and 296 men 70 years and over were followed for 1 year and 507 falls were documented. a greater proportion of women (32.7%) than men (23.0%) experienced at least one fall in which there was no or minimal external contribution. using unconditional logistic regression models we investigated the effect of physical and sociological variables on the sex difference in fall rate. controlling for the variables age, use of psychotropic drugs, inability to rise from a chair without using arms, going outdoors less than daily and living alone decreased the relative risk of women falling compared to men from 2.02 (95% ci, 1.40-2.92) to 1.55 (95% ci 1.04-2.31). some of the increased risk of falling associated with being a women was able to be explained and is potentially correctable. but even after controlling for the physical and social variables which we had assessed, women compared to men still had a significantly increased relative risk of falling.
mutations in the k-ras oncogene induced by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine in preneoplastic and neoplastic rat colonic mucosa. these experiments were conducted to determine whether point mutations activating k-ras or h-ras oncogenes, induced by the procarcinogen 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (dmh), were detectable in preneoplastic or neoplastic rat colonic mucosa. rats were injected weekly with diluent or dmh at 20 mg/kg body wt for 5, 10, 15, or 25 wk, killed, and their colons dissected. dna was extracted from diluent-injected control animals, histologically normal colonic mucosa from carcinogen-treated animals, and from carcinomas. ras mutations were characterized by differential hybridization using allele-specific oligonucleotide probes to polymerase chain reaction--amplified dna, and confirmed by dna sequencing. while no h-ras mutations were detectable in any group, k-ras (g to a) mutations were found in 66% of dmh-induced colon carcinomas. these mutations were at the second nucleotide of codons 12 or 13 or the first nucleotide of codon 59 of the k-ras gene. the same type of k-ras mutations were observed in premalignant colonic mucosa from 2 out of 11 rats as early as 15 wk after beginning carcinogen injections when no dysplasia, adenomas, or carcinomas were histologically evident, suggesting that ras mutation may be an early event in colon carcinogenesis.
percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections. operative drainage is the cornerstone of therapy for pancreatic abscess. recently it has been suggested that successful percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections may serve as definitive therapy. we undertook therapeutic, computed tomography-directed percutaneous drainage in a selected group of 29 patients with infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections. twenty-three patients (79%) were successfully treated with percutaneous drainage. of six patients (21%) representing failures of percutaneous drainage, four died and two recovered after operative drainage. the four patients who died had a mean apache (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) ii score of 23 and five of ranson's prognostic signs. ranson's signs and apache ii scores were predictive of success and mortality. we conclude that in selected patients, infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections can be treated definitively with therapeutic percutaneous catheter drainage. based on this experience, recommendations regarding patient selection are included.
the contribution of routine follow-up mammography to an early detection of asynchronous contralateral breast cancer. the role of routine mammography was assessed in the early detection of asynchronous contralateral breast cancer (acbc). the breast cancer patient populations of two cities, nijmegen and eindhoven, the netherlands, which were subjected to a well-defined follow-up program, were compared. the program consisted of regular physical examination and annual mammography in nijmegen and physical examination only in eindhoven. from 1975 until 1987, 24 acbc patients were detected within a group of 880 breast cancer patients in nijmegen (3%) and, from 1971 until 1984, 14 acbc patients within a group of 411 patients in eindhoven (3%). in nijmegen, eight of the 23 evaluable patients (35%) had a contralateral tumor with a histologic size smaller than 10 mm or an in situ carcinoma, compared with one of the 14 of the eindhoven patients (7%), whereas 18 of the 24 (75%) versus eight of the 14 patients (57%) were node-negative. thus annual mammography is very likely a contribution in the early detection of contralateral breast cancer as compared with follow-up by regular physical examination only.
rehabilitation of quadriparesis secondary to spinal cord sarcoidosis. sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disorder that rarely involves the spinal cord. this report describes the presentation and rehabilitative course of a 31-yr-old man with quadriparesis secondary to spinal cord sarcoidosis. the patient had insidious, progressive weakness in his arms and legs for six weeks before evaluation. examination revealed a c4 incomplete spinal cord injury. computed tomography demonstrated an intrinsic cord lesion from the brainstem to approximately t8. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) suggested the lesion was granulomatous and cervical laminectomy confirmed noncaseating granulomas. the patient was started on high dose steroids, subsequently gained strength in the distal upper extremities, and was sent for spinal cord rehabilitation. examination revealed 3 to 4+/5 strength in the upper extremities, 2- to 3-/5 in the lower extremities. the right side was slightly stronger than the left, with proximal musculature stronger than distal. sensory examination was intact except in the c-8 to t-2 dermatomes. the patient was dependent in self-care and mobility except for feeding. initial progress was inhibited by severe spasticity requiring medication, but by discharge he was independent at the wheelchair level with 4/5 strength in all four extremities except for his hands, which had 3/5 strength. sensory exam did not change. follow-up mri studies revealed reduction of the lesion. review of previous cases revealed that myelopathy is the most common presenting complaint and cervical segments are most commonly involved. survival averaged almost three years and significant gains were made in functional status. rehabilitative course and special considerations, treatment and follow-up recommendations are discussed.
a bleeding risk index for estimating the probability of major bleeding in hospitalized patients starting anticoagulant therapy. purpose: to construct and test prospectively a bleeding risk index for estimating the probability of major bleeding in hospitalized patients starting long-term anticoagulant therapy. patients and methods: in an inception cohort of 617 patients starting long-term anticoagulant therapy in one hospital, data were gathered retrospectively and bleeding was classified using reliable explicit criteria. we constructed a bleeding risk index by identifying and weighting independent predictors of major bleeding using a multivariate proportional-hazards model. the bleeding risk index was tested in 394 other patients prospectively identified in a second hospital. the index was compared to physicians' predictions. results: major bleeding developed before discharge in 61 of all 1,011 patients (6%). the bleeding risk index included four independent risk factors for major in-hospital bleeding: the number of specific comorbid conditions; heparin use in patients aged 60 years or older; maximal prothrombin or partial thromboplastin time 2.0 or more times control; liver dysfunction worsening during therapy. in the testing group, the index predicted major bleeding, which occurred in 3% of 235 low-risk patients, 16% of 96 middle-risk patients, and 19% of 63 high-risk patients (p less than 0.001). the bleeding risk index performed as well as physicians' predictions, and integration of the bleeding risk index with physicians' predictions led to a classification system that was more sensitive (p = 0.03) than physicians' predictions alone. in 86% of patients with a high risk of major bleeding, we identified specific ways of improving therapy, e.g., avoiding overanticoagulation and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents. conclusion: the bleeding risk index provides valid estimates of the probability of major bleeding in hospitalized patients starting long-term anticoagulant therapy and complements physicians' predictions. the possibility that bleeding can be prevented in high-risk patients warrants prospective evaluation.
rare variant of isolated lower pole hydronephrosis: primary obstructive megaureter. hydronephrosis in the lower pole moiety of a duplex system is relatively uncommon, usually associated with vesicoureteric reflux. we report on a patient with primary obstructive megaureter of a lower pole moiety that we believe is the first case report in the literature.
anticardiolipin antibodies in polymyalgia rheumatica-giant cell arteritis: association with severe vascular complications. purpose: we studied a group of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) with or without biopsy-proven giant cell arteritis (gca) in order to determine the prevalence of anticardiolipin antibodies (acl) in these disorders and their association with vascular complications. patients and methods: the study consisted of 50 patients, 30 with pmr alone and 20 with associated gca. determinations of igg and igm acl by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were done in the patients and in 50 age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects. we also measured von willebrand factor (vwf) antigen, c-reactive protein, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. results: twenty-four (48%) of the 50 patients had acl. eleven were positive for igg and five for igm, whereas eight were positive for both. in the group of patients with pmr alone, only eight (26.6%) had acl, while 16 of 20 patients (80%) with gca had these antibodies (p less than 0.01). in the control group, 10 of 50 patients (20%) had positive acl, a finding that was statistically significantly different only when compared with the finding in patients with gca (p less than 0.01). both isotypes of acl were seen mainly in patients with gca, and five of these patients had severe vascular complications. levels of vwf antigen were significantly higher in patients with gca as compared with patients with pmr alone; however, the highest titers did not correlate with vascular complications. erythrocyte sedimentation rate and c-reactive protein were increased but comparable in both groups. conclusion: this study demonstrates that acl are prevalent in patients with gca. these antibodies might imply severe vascular damage and could play an important role in the pathogenesis of the vasculopathy observed in this disease.
endoscopic comparison of cimetidine and sucralfate for prevention of naproxen-induced acute gastroduodenal injury. effect of scoring method. nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced gastroduodenal mucosal damage observed endoscopically is usually categorized as hemorrhages, erosions, or ulcerations. we undertook this study to determine whether the injury produced by a commonly prescribed nsaid, naproxen, could be reduced by cotherapy with sucralfate or cimetidine and to determine how dependent the differences in the degree of protection against mucosal injury measured were on the scoring system used. four groups of 20 healthy volunteers with endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosa received naproxen (500 mg twice a day) plus cimetidine (300 mg four times a day or 400 mg twice a day), sucralfate (1 g four times a day), or placebo for seven days. after seven days of therapy, a second endoscopy was performed. separate scoring systems were used for the presence of hemorrhages, erosions, and a combination of both types of injury. there were significantly fewer mucosal hemorrhages present when naproxen and cimetidine were administered than when naproxen was administered with placebo or sucralfate (placebo vs 300 mg cimetidine, p = 0.04, and placebo vs 400 mg cimetidine, p = 0.006, placebo vs sucralfate, p = 0.26). both cimetidine dosages resulted in significantly fewer hemorrhages than were present following cotherapy of naproxen and sucralfate (p less than 0.05). in contrast, there was no discernible difference in the mucosal injury between placebo and any drug or between any two active therapies when the injury was evaluated based on the presence of gastric erosions.
assessment of ventricular septal defect closure by intraoperative epicardial ultrasound. intraoperative epicardial two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging, color flow mapping and contrast echocardiography were used in 31 patients after patch closure of a ventricular septal defect to determine their respective values in the assessment of residual shunting after cardiopulmonary bypass and for the prediction of long-term results. epicardial imaging showed no incidence of patch dehiscence. residual shunting detected by color flow mapping or contrast echocardiography was graded into one of four categories (0 to iii). real time analysis of color flow mapping studies suggested no shunting (grade 0) in 2 patients, grade i shunting in 20, grade ii in 8 and grade iii in 1; contrast studies suggested grade 0 in 15, grade i in 6, grade ii in 8 and grade iii in 2. interobserver variation in real time encoding of grade i or ii shunting was 25% by color flow mapping and 6% by contrast echocardiography. subsequent frame by frame analysis revealed that both diastolic and early systolic right ventricular turbulence gave rise to false positive results during real time analysis of color flow mapping studies. color flow mapping allowed exact localization of residual shunting, whereas contrast echocardiography allowed better semiquantification. postbypass results were correlated in 30 patients with late postoperative precordial studies (mean interval 7.5 months). persistent shunts were found in 6 (20%) of 30 patients. no patient required reoperation for residual shunting. the predictive value of immediate grade i or ii shunting as a marker for persistent long-term shunting was poor, whereas both patients with immediate grade iii shunting had shunt persistence, indicating that immediate revision should be considered in such patients. intraoperative epicardial ultrasound is valuable for the immediate exclusion of important residual shunting after ventricular septal defect closure. maximal information is obtained when color flow mapping and contrast echocardiography are used in combination.
ichthyosis, mental retardation, and asymptomatic spasticity. a new neurocutaneous syndrome with normal fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase activity. a number of inherited disorders of cornification have been related to abnormal lipid metabolism. in the recessively inherited sjogren-larsson syndrome, defined by the triad of ichthyosis, mental retardation, and spasticity, fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase deficiency has recently been reported. these patients accumulate fatty alcohol in the plasma and cultured fibroblasts. a 19-year-old woman with ichthyosis, mental retardation, and mild spasticity is described in whom fatty alcohol metabolism was normal, as determined by plasma octadecanol level and fibroblast fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase activity. ultrastructural studies on skin from the patient revealed morphologically abnormal epidermal lamellar bodies, not unlike those seen in neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis. we postulate that this patient has a novel neurocutaneous syndrome that may be secondary to abnormal lipid metabolism.
evaluation and treatment of mental disorders in patients with aids. mental symptoms are common in patients with aids. optimal management involves the identification and treatment of underlying mental disorders rather than symptomatic treatment alone. organic mental disorders are very frequent in aids, particularly with seriously ill patients who are medical inpatients. there is a high priori probability that such common symptoms as agitation, irritability, and insomnia will be caused by an organic mental disorder. psychopharmacology in the patient with aids requires considerable caution. lower doses and careful surveillance for subtle neuropsychiatric side effects are necessary. routine medical contact with a compassionate physician may be of inestimable value to the patient in coping with the fear and dread that surround the illness.
treatment of de quervain tenosynovitis. a prospective study of the results of injection of steroids and immobilization in a splint. in a prospective study of non-operative treatment of de quervain tenosynovitis, ninety-nine wrists of ninety-five consecutively seen patients who had this diagnosis had an injection of one milliliter of a 1 per cent lidocaine solution and one milliliter of a suspension containing forty milligrams of methylprednisolone acetate. twelve patients (twelve wrists) were lost to follow-up. of the remaining eighty-seven wrists, fifty-four (62 per cent) had a satisfactory outcome at a mean of eighteen months (minimum follow-up, twelve months). the duration of symptoms before treatment did not affect the outcome. the result in thirty-three wrists (38 per cent) was considered unsatisfactory. thirty of these wrists were subsequently treated with operative release of the first dorsal compartment, and twenty-two (73 per cent) of the thirty were found to have a separate compartment for the extensor pollicis brevis. the prevalence of a separate compartment is significantly higher than that in the general population, as shown in anatomical studies of cadavera.
quality of life among hypertensive patients with a diuretic background who are taking atenolol and enalapril. the cardioselective beta-blocker atenolol and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril were compared for efficacy, safety, and quality-of-life factors in 30 patients with hypertension whose hypertension was inadequately controlled with diuretic alone. atenolol (50 to 100 mg once a day) and enalapril (2.5 to 40 mg once a day), combined with hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg once a day), had similar levels of efficacy and safety. a comprehensive battery of psychologic assessments for quality of life was administered, including measures of anxiety, depression, psychiatric symptoms, memory, and psychomotor function. these five conceptually based clusters were first analyzed by multivariate analysis of variance procedures, followed by univariate analyses of the individual variables composing each domain. in general, neither atenolol nor enalapril was associated with major changes in psychologic functioning. the only data cluster with a statistically significant change was memory function, primarily as a result of lower scores of the digit span (backward) test, for atenolol relative to enalapril. these preliminary findings suggest that atenolol and enalapril have comparable degrees of efficacy and safety, with no major disparities in quality-of-life effects, for hypertensive patients with a history of taking diuretics and this sort of quality-of-life assessment can be performed during trials of antihypertensive drugs.
triiodothyronine treatment for raynaud's phenomenon: a controlled trial. the effects of 80 micrograms triiodothyronine (t3) daily were compared with placebo in a double blind controlled crossover trial in 18 patients with raynaud's phenomenon. reductions in the frequency, duration and severity of attacks while taking t3 were gradual but highly significant. four of 6 subjects had skin ulcer healing. skin temperatures in the hands increased significantly. the skin temperature recovery times after cold exposure were significantly shorter during t3 therapy compared with placebo. although large dosages of t3 were well tolerated, 6 patients experienced episodic palpitations, and slight but significant increases in heart rate and pulse pressure were observed. evaluation of the use of physiological doses of t3 (60 micrograms daily or less) in the treatment of raynaud's phenomenon is suggested.
vitamin b12 and folate concentrations in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of neurological patients with special reference to multiple sclerosis and dementia. vitamin b12 and folate concentrations were measured in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) in 293 neurological patients. serum and csf vitamin b12 concentrations showed a positive correlation. in individual patients csf b12 concentrations varied considerably for a given serum concentration. the median serum vitamin b12 concentration of the alzheimer's type dementia group was significantly lower compared with that of a control group. lower median csf vitamin b12 concentrations were found in groups of patients with multiple sclerosis and alzheimer's type dementia. five patients with heterogeneous clinical pictures had unexplained low serum and csf b12 concentrations without macrocytosis. two patients had very high serum b12 and low-normal csf concentrations which could be explained by a blood-brain barrier transport defect. serum and csf folate concentrations did not show significant differences between the various groups.
oral estrogens decrease bleeding time and improve clinical bleeding in patients with renal failure. purpose: a prolonged bleeding time is associated with platelet dysfunction and clinical bleeding in patients with renal failure. parenteral estrogens have been shown to shorten the prolonged bleeding time in patients with chronic renal failure, although the mechanism of action is unknown. we conducted a study to evaluate the efficacy of oral conjugated estrogens in this setting. patients and methods: four patients with renal failure, prolonged bleeding time, and clinical bleeding were given 50 mg of conjugated estrogen (premarin) daily. results: bleeding time normalized in two cases and was reduced to less than 50% of the pretreatment value in one of the remaining two cases. bleeding stopped in all patients within two days. ten dialysis patients with prolonged bleeding time were randomized to a course of 50 mg of premarin daily or placebo. the bleeding time in all five patients in the premarin group normalized or decreased to below 50% of the pretreatment value after 7.0 +/- 4.2 days of therapy. the bleeding time did not normalize in the five patients treated with placebo. no side effects attributable to therapy were reported. conclusion: we conclude that orally administered conjugated estrogens effectively improve the bleeding tendency in patients with chronic renal failure.
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 receptor rna: expression in hematopoietic cells. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [1,25(oh)2d3] induces differentiation and inhibits proliferation of myeloid leukemic cells from various lines and patients; these effects are probably mediated through the 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor. little is known of expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna in hematopoietic cells. we examined the expression and modulation of expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna in various proliferating and nonproliferating hematopoietic cells. constitutive expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna was detected in various kinds of hematopoietic cells, including macrophages and activated t lymphocytes, as well as in cell lines kg-1 (myeloblasts), hl-60 (promyelocytes), ml-3 (myelomonoblasts), u937, thp-1 (monoblasts), k562 (erythroblasts), and s-lb1 (htlv-1-transfected t lymphocytes). receptor transcripts were 4.6 kilobases (kb), and no variant sizes were observed. all cell lines examined in this group also expressed 1,25(oh)2d3 receptors. most b lymphocyte lines expressed negligible levels of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna and protein; however; analysis of a lymphoid/myeloid somatic hybrid suggested that suppression of expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna in b lymphocytes may be a dominant characteristic. hl-60 cells were cultured with 10(-7) mol/l 1,25(oh)2d3 for 24 to 72 hours, and levels of expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor and its rna were examined. levels of rna coding for the receptor were not modulated by exposure to high levels of ligand. levels of occupied 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor protein increased in these hl-60 cells; but the total number of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptors decreased about 50% at 24 hours and returned toward normal at 72 hours. steady-state levels of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna were not affected by terminal differentiation of hl-60 toward either granulocytes or macrophages. nondividing macrophages from normal individuals also expressed 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna. in contrast, nondividing peripheral blood lymphocytes from normal individuals did not express 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna; with stimulation of proliferation of these cells, accumulation of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna increased markedly. half-life (t1/2) of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna in t lymphocytes was short (1 hour) as determined by measuring decay of the message after addition of actinomycin d. consistent with this short t1/2, accumulation of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor rna increased in cells as their protein synthesis was inhibited. further studies are required to understand the physiologic role of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptors in myeloid cells and proliferating t lymphocytes.
sinus arrest induced by trivial nasal stimulation during alfentanil-nitrous oxide anaesthesia. a case is reported of bradycardia and sinus arrest induced by insertion of a nasal temperature probe. other possible causes of bradycardia and sinus arrest under anaesthesia are reviewed briefly. evidence for the neurological basis of a nasocardiac reflex, similar to the oculocardiac reflex, is presented. a minor, trivial stimulus may elicit this reflex.
intraoperative ultrasonic imaging of the ascending aorta in ischemic heart disease. in an attempt to locate any atherosclerotic lesion in the ascending aorta and to prevent embolization, intraoperative b-mode ultrasonography was performed in 100 patients with ischemic heart disease (31 women and 69 men). ultrasonography was carried out with a 10-mhz probe placed directly on the ascending aorta. ultrasonic imaging demonstrated an atherosclerotic lesion in the lower half of the aorta in 76 patients (76%), a lesion in the upper half of the aorta in 89 patients (89%), and a lesion at the orifice of the innominate artery in 99 patients (99%). prospective palpation identified an atherosclerotic lesion in 12 (25%) of 48 patients. thoracic computed tomography in 79 patients showed calcification in the lower half of the aorta in 6 patients (7.6%) and in the upper half of the aorta in 11 (13.9%). palpation and thoracic computed tomography underestimated the frequency of atherosclerotic lesions. intraoperative ultrasonography accurately identified atherosclerotic disease. this technique allows the surgeon to modify cannulation, aortic clamping, and operative technique to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke due to embolization of atherosclerotic debris from the ascending aorta.
bronchial asthma. asthma is one of the most common respiratory problems in modern industrialized countries, affecting over 5% of the population. it affects all age groups from infants to senior citizens, and mortality rates from asthma appear to be increasing during the past few years in the united states as well as in other industrialized countries. asthma tends to occur in families, associated with other allergic disease, and may be induced by a wide variety of environmental antigens, most commonly inhaled allergens such as pollen and dust. bronchial challenge with a specific allergen results in an early bronchospastic response with a relatively brief duration, and in a significant number of patients there is a late response with onset after 3 to 4 hours, lasting hours to days. this late response is associated with a bronchial hypersensitivity reaction, which is demonstrable by nonspecific challenge testing in the laboratory. during the period of bronchial hyperresponsiveness patients are prone to develop attacks following exposure to a wide variety of "triggers," including cold air, fumes, or cigarette smoke. the current approach to management of patients with asthma emphasizes prevention, with avoidance of specific allergens when possible, and chronic use of anti-inflammatory agents including corticosteroids and cromolyn sodium. the goal is to decrease the bronchial hyperresponsiveness. management of the acute asthma attack consists of bronchodilator therapy, primarily with inhaled beta-adrenergic agonists, and administration of oral or systemic corticosteroids if the attack is not rapidly relieved. additional therapeutic agents including theophylline and anticholinergics may be useful in some situations. response to therapy during the first couple of hours in the emergency room is the most important predictor of the course of the acute attack, and patients who have not responded significantly after 2 hours of maximum therapy are candidates for hospital admission or prolonged emergency room observation. the goal of acute therapy is to wean the patient from intravenous drugs and place him or her on rapidly tapering doses of oral prednisone while initiating a vigorous program of preventive therapy. follow-up observation, both in the office and in the patient's home, is vital and involves extensive patient education and objective testing of peak airflow. in general, the course of asthma is relatively benign compared with other obstructive airway diseases; however, significant mortality exists, especially in older patients and those with late-onset asthma.
complete heart block and severe aortic incompetence in relapsing polychondritis: clinicopathologic findings. we describe a patient with relapsing polychondritis who developed fatal cardiac involvement comprising complete heart block, acute aortic incompetence, and cardiovascular collapse. pathologic studies showed fibrosis of the cardiac conducting system and necrotizing inflammation of the aortic valve, features not previously described in relapsing polychondritis, as well as evidence of coronary artery vasculitis.
codeine increases pain thresholds to copper vapor laser stimuli in extensive but not poor metabolizers of sparteine. the analgesic efficacy and kinetics of a single oral dose of 75 mg codeine was investigated in 12 extensive metabolizers and 12 poor metabolizers of sparteine in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. the cosegregation of the o-demethylation of codeine to morphine with the sparteine oxidation polymorphism was confirmed. hence morphine could not be detected in the plasma of any of the poor metabolizers, whereas detectable morphine plasma levels were found in 10 of 12 extensive metabolizers. pain thresholds to laser stimuli were determined before drug intake and 90, 150, and 210 minutes after drug intake. codeine significantly increased the pricking pain thresholds in the extensive metabolizers (p less than 0.05), whereas there were no significant changes in the poor metabolizers. no change in pain thresholds occurred with placebo in any of the two phenotypes. in the extensive metabolizers there was a significant positive correlation between the increase in pain threshold and plasma concentration of codeine. the study supports the hypothesis that morphine formation is essential for achievement of analgesia during codeine treatment.
metabolic and health complications of obesity. overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries. in spite of increased interest in fitness, obesity is on the increase in the united states. this is particularly so among children and adolescents. although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases, the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood. such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions. in this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or "defect" in a given system. in the absence of such underlying defects, overnutrition, or obesity, is well tolerated. one of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia, that is, elevations of very low-density lipoprotein (vldl) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol. the major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of vldl. for patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of vldl triglycerides, hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state. for those who have defective clearance of ldl, obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia. both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of vldl, due to obesity, combined with a genetic defect in clearance of vldl or ldl. the mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of hdl cholesterol is uncertain, although it could enhance removal of hdl by an excess of adipose tissue. another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones. the presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones. two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones: a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile. overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol, and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
primary angioplasty in myocardial infarction: assessment of improved myocardial perfusion with technetium-99m isonitrile. technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxy-2-isobutyl-isonitrile (technetium-99m isonitrile) is a new radiopharmaceutical compound that reflects myocardial perfusion. its kinetics, especially its lack of redistribution after intravenous administration, permits the assessment of changes in myocardial perfusion without delay of therapy. tomographic images at rest were obtained immediately and 6 to 10 days later in 17 consecutive patients undergoing successful primary angioplasty during their first transmural myocardial infarction. thirteen patients had anterior infarction. the initial (acute) defect size before angioplasty of 48 +/- 17% of the left ventricle decreased significantly (p less than 0.0001) to 29 +/- 19% on the late scans. there was no correlation between the time to therapy and the reduction in defect size. twelve of the 17 patients, including 7 of the 11 patients treated after 4 h, demonstrated a definite reduction in the initial defect size. eight patients with angiographically proved persistent coronary occlusion underwent a similar imaging sequence. the initial defect size in this group remained unchanged on the late scans (24 +/- 16% versus 26 +/- 18%, p = ns). primary angioplasty is an effective approach toward salvaging myocardium; comparison with thrombolytic drug therapy must await the results of controlled clinical trials.
pontine supranuclear facial palsy. two patients presented with a unilateral supranuclear facial palsy. additional dysarthria was attributed to the pontine origin documented by magnetic resonance imaging on the contralateral side. the pontine disorder also was indicated by an isolated delay of the blink reflex r1 component or of the masseter reflex. we attribute the facial palsy to a lesion of a supranuclear fiber bundle supplying the facial nucleus. the location of the lesions favors these fibers taking a separate course from the main pyramidal tract at the mid- to upper pontine level.
monoclonal antibody to the interferon-inducible protein leu-13 triggers aggregation and inhibits proliferation of leukemic b cells. interferon (ifn)-alpha inhibits dna synthesis stimulated by low molecular weight b-cell growth factor (bcgf) in hairy cells in vitro, suggesting that the therapeutic efficacy of ifn-alpha in hairy cell leukemia (hcl) involves growth inhibition of malignant b cells. evidence that the 16-kd cell surface protein leu-13 mediates an antiproliferative signal in t lymphocytes and is ifn-inducible in endothelial cells prompted us to examine the expression and functional role of this molecule in leukemic b cells. leu-13 density, determined by flow cytometry, was upregulated in vitro and in vivo by ifn-alpha on malignant b cells from patients with hcl, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and prolymphocytic leukemia. monoclonal anti-leu-13 triggered homotypic aggregation of leukemic b cells via an adhesion pathway that was not inhibited by antibodies to leukocyte function associated antigen-1 (lfa-1) or intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1). moreover, anti-leu-13 potentiated the inhibitory effects of ifn-alpha on bcgf-stimulated dna synthesis, assessed by [3h]-thymidine and [3h]-deoxyadenosine incorporation into dna. these results indicate that leu-13 is part of a novel ifn-inducible signaling pathway which may modify the growth and adhesive properties of leukemic b cells under physiologic or therapeutic conditions.
pediatric blunt liver injury and coagulopathy managed with packs and a silo: case report. packing the abdomen can be lifesaving when severe hepatic trauma is complicated by refractory hypothermia, coagulopathy, and continuing hemorrhage requiring large-volume transfusion. this report describes the successful use of abdominal packs and a modified silo in a child following blunt liver injury.
malignant transformation of adenomatous hyperplasia to hepatocellular carcinoma. to clarify the course of adenomatous hyperplasia (ah) of the liver, 17 patients with 20 biopsy-proven ah nodules were followed clinically for 1-5 years. at the initial biopsy the mean nodular diameter was 10 (sd 4) mm and the relative cellularity [( mean cellularity of ah divided by mean parenchymal cellularity] x 100) 141 (27). the criteria for diagnosis of malignant transformation of ah were both a doubling of nodular volume and changes on imaging. between 6 and 50 months after biopsy, 9 of the 18 nodules which could still be accurately identified met the criteria for transformation; histological proof of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) was obtained later for 7 of these 9 nodules. the product of diameter and cellularity (transformation index) was the strongest predictor of the time to transformation. 9 ah nodules did not undergo transformation--7 did not meet one or both criteria and 2 became undetectable by imaging. because of the high risk of malignant transformation, it can be concluded that ah is an absolute precursor of hcc. it should therefore be treated as a potential malignant disorder.
analysis of 24-hour esophageal pressure and ph data in unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain. fourty-four unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain were studied using conventional manometry with additional edrophonium provocation and 24-hour ambulatory esophageal ph and pressure recording with a system developed by our group. new, fully automated techniques of statistical analysis of the complete set of esophageal pressure and ph signals were used to examine the temporal relation between pain, esophageal motility disturbances, and gastroesophageal reflux. the analysis used the 97.5th percentile of amplitude and duration of all esophageal contractions in each patient as well as a chi 2 test of the distribution of contraction types to determine whether a pain episode was related to abnormal motility or not. the edrophonium test results were positive in 2 patients. only 25 patients (56.8%) had at least one pain episode (total, 111 episodes) during 24-hour recording. thirty-three percent of the pain episodes were related to reflux and 23.4% to abnormal motility, and 43.2% were not related to an esophageal function disturbance. in the patient-oriented analysis in this study, it was required for a positive correlation that the symptom index (percentage of related pain episodes) was higher than 75%. it was found that the pain was related to reflux in 2 patients (4.6%), to reflux and motor abnormalities in 4 (9.2%), and to motor abnormalities in 2 patients (4.6%). in 36 patients (81.8%), no relation with an esophageal abnormality could be established, either because the patients had no pain during the 24-hour study, or because the pain seemed unrelated to reflux or abnormal motility.
papular-purpuric "gloves and socks" syndrome. we report five cases of an acute, self-limiting dermatosis that has not been previously described. it consists of a pruritic edema and erythema of the hands and feet in a gloves-and-socks distribution and is associated with oral lesions and fever. the clinical course is characterized by the rapid development of petechial purpura and clearing of lesions within 1 to 2 weeks. the disease appears to affect only young and otherwise healthy persons and occurs mostly during the spring. the etiology is unknown but might be of infectious origin.
complications of general anesthesia for nd:yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors. we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd:yag laser endobronchial tumor resection. the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed. preoperative status, anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome. twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction. longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal. cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention. variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age. perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd: yag laser resection. short-acting neuromuscular relaxants, careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation, limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd: yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors.
brain retractor edema during induced hypotension: the effect of the rate of return of blood pressure. this study evaluated the hypothesis that the postoperative formation of cerebral edema may be influenced by the rate of blood pressure return after induced hypotension in a graded brain retractor injury. nineteen cats underwent unilateral craniotomy, isoflurane-induced hypotension to a mean of 50 mm hg, and application of a brain retractor at 20 mm hg of pressure for 1 hour. blood pressure was returned to normal either within 3 minutes or over 20 minutes. the degree of cerebral edema formation was determined by evans blue dye and coronal magnetic resonance imaging. all animals showed extravasation of evans blue dye in the retracted hemisphere that was most marked at the periphery of the retractor. t1 relaxation times were significantly prolonged in the retracted hemispheres of both the fast return and slow return groups (18.8% and 17.8%, respectively) and more so at the evans blue sites (42.8% and 40.8%), although not so strikingly beneath the retractor itself (6.3% and 7.8%). t2 relaxation times were similarly prolonged but to approximately half the degree of the t1 times. in the nonretracted hemisphere, drug-induced hypotension alone did not result in significant acute cerebral edema or blood-brain barrier alteration. there was no significant difference between the fast and slow groups in evans blue extravasation or magnetic resonance changes. thus, in a retractor-induced brain injury, restoration of arterial pressure to normal either gradually or rapidly did not influence the degree or extent of edema formation.
roles of renal and vascular renin in spontaneous hypertension and switching of the mechanism upon nephrectomy. lack of hypotensive effects of inhibition of renin, converting enzyme, and angiotensin ii receptor blocker after bilateral nephrectomy. inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme, renin, and the angiotensin ii (ang ii) receptor lower the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) used as a model of essential hypertension. since their plasma renin levels were normal or subnormal, renin in the vascular tissue was considered to play a key role in the maintenance of the hypertension. to clarify the source and localization of renin in shr, antirenin antibodies, the converting enzyme inhibitors delapril, enalapril, and the ang ii receptor antagonist dup 753 were administered to intact and bilaterally nephrectomized shr and their normotensive controls. the efficient hypotensive action of the renin antibody indicated that renin of renal origin is a dominant factor. gradual but complete disappearance of antihypertensive action of these inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system upon bilateral nephrectomy indicated the importance of membrane-associated renin of the renal origin and angiotensin converting enzyme in the maintenance of the spontaneous hypertension.
effects of cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and distal intestinal obstruction syndrome. in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial, we investigated the effects of the prokinetic drug cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic recurrent distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (dios). after a baseline period, 17 patients (12.9 to 34.9 years; 12 boys) received, in random order, cisapride (7.5 to 10 mg) and placebo three times daily by mouth, each for 6 months. gastrointestinal symptoms (flatulence, abdominal pain, fullness, abdominal distension, nausea, anorexia, heartburn, diarrhea, vomiting and regurgitation) were scored three times monthly and physical examinations assessed. at baseline and at each 6-month period, assessment included food intake for 7 days, 3-day stool collection, pulmonary function tests, and abdominal radiographs. during cisapride therapy compared with placebo, there were significant reductions in flatulence (p less than 0.005), fullness, and nausea (p less than 0.05). patients with the worst symptom scores benefited most from cisapride. with cisapride, 12 patients felt better and three worse (p less than 0.05); physicians judged 11 patients improved and two worse (p less than 0.05). no side effects were noted. there were no significant differences between cisapride and placebo periods in nutritional status, x-ray scores, pulmonary function, food intake (fat, protein, calories), stool size and consistency, and fecal losses of fat, bile acids, chymotrypsin, and calories. for acute episodes of dios, intestinal lavage was needed 6 times in 4 patients during treatment with cisapride, and 11 times in 6 patients receiving placebo. in comparison with unselected patients with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency who were receiving enzyme supplements and who had no distal intestinal obstruction, fecal fat losses (percentage of intake) were almost twice as high in the study group with dios (31.2 +/- 20.6% vs 16.2 +/- 17.6%; p less than 0.01). we conclude that in the dosage used, long-term treatment with cisapride appears to improve chronic abdominal symptoms in patients with cystic fibrosis and dios, but fails to abolish the need for intestinal lavage. cisapride treatment had no effect on digestion and nutritional status of cystic fibrosis patients with pancreatic insufficiency.
widespread inflammatory response to osteoblastoma: the flare phenomenon. a case of vertebral osteoblastoma caused a diffuse, reactive inflammatory infiltrate in two vertebrae, adjacent ribs, and the paraspinous soft tissues. the authors call this the flare phenomenon. on magnetic resonance images the diffuse inflammatory response caused a misleading appearance that simulated a malignant process (lymphoma or ewing sarcoma). a computed tomographic myelogram was diagnostic.
the empiric use of naloxone in patients with altered mental status: a reappraisal. study objective: to determine whether clinical criteria (respirations of 12 or less, mitotic pupils, and circumstantial evidence of opiate abuse) could predict response to naloxone in patients with acute alteration of mental status (ams) and to evaluate whether such criteria predict a final diagnosis of presence or absence of opiate overdose as accurately as response to naloxone. cases and setting: seven hundred thirty patients with ams who received naloxone for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes at the discretion of two large, urban, paramedic base teaching hospitals. methods: we reviewed paramedic run sheets and audiotapes on all 730 patients as well as available hospital records of all patients who demonstrated any response to naloxone to determine whether overdose was responsible for their clinical presentations. we also reviewed hospital records for a selected sample of naloxone nonresponders. main results and conclusion: only 25 patients (3.4%) demonstrated a complete response to naloxone, whereas 32 (4.4%) manifested a partial or equivocal response. nineteen of 25 complete responders (76%), two of 26 partial responders (8%) (with known final diagnosis), and four of 195 non-responders (2%) (with known final diagnosis) were ultimately diagnosed as having overdosed. respirations of 12 or less or the presence of any one of the three clinical findings as a group were each highly sensitive in predicting response to naloxone, and at least as sensitive as response to naloxone in predicting a diagnosis of opiate overdose. selective administration of naloxone for ams would have decreased the use of this drug by 75% to 90% while still administering it to virtually all naloxone responders who had a final diagnosis of opiate overdose.
quantification of hepatobiliary function as an integral part of imaging with technetium-99m-mebrofenin in health and disease. a study was undertaken to check the feasibility of measuring the hepatic extraction fraction (hef) and excretion t-1/2 values as an integral part of hepatobiliary imaging with technetium-99m-mebrofenin in health and disease. in 18 controls subjects, the hef was 100% and the t-1/2 excretion mean +/- s.e. value was 15.23 +/- 1.4 min. the mean appearance times of the common bile duct (cbd), gallbladder (gb), and small intestine were 15.8 +/- 1.52, 20.2 +/- 2.7, and 23.8 +/- 3.08 min, respectively. rising serum bilirubin in patients decreased hef and increased t-1/2 excretion value resulting in delayed appearance of cbd, gb, and small intestine. in control subjects and patients with bilirubin less than 5 mg%, t-1/2 excretion values at 30, 40, and 50 min were similar to those values calculated using the entire 60 min of data, suggesting that the hepatic phase study time could be reduced to 30-40 min and still use the normal reference values established for 60 min. in patients with bilirubin greater than 5 mg%, the data collection duration should be continued for 60 min.
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. iv. improved tolerance of immature myocardium to hypoxia and ischemia by intravenous metabolic support. thirteen immature puppies (2 to 4 kg) underwent 1 hour of acute hypoxia (oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm hg), followed by 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia on total vented bypass with normal blood reperfusion. ventricular function was assessed by inscribing starling function curves and measuring stroke work indices before hypoxia and after reperfusion. seven puppies (control) received normal saline infusion at 4 ml/kg/hr. six other puppies received a 4 ml/kg/hr intravenous infusion of glutamate/aspartate, glucose-insulin-potassium, mercaptopropionyl glycine, carnitine, and catalase during hypoxia and reperfusion. in control hearts, acute hypoxia depleted myocardial glutamate and aspartate by 52% (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia) and 48% (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia) and caused severe hemodynamic deterioration (55% decrease of stroke work index) (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia); three of seven (43%) required premature institution of bypass. postischemic left ventricular function recovered to only 40% of control levels (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia). in contrast, intravenous metabolic infusions maintained tissue glutamate (p less than 0.05 versus control group) and aspartate (p less than 0.05 versus control group) in treated hearts during hypoxia and allowed cardiac index to rise 20% (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia); all treated hearts tolerated 1 hour of hypoxia, and stroke work recovered 70% (p less than 0.05 versus control group) of stroke work index after subsequent ischemia. impaired tolerance of immature hearts to acute hypoxia and subsequent ischemia is due to substrate depletion. this impairment can be reduced by intravenous metabolic support during hypoxia and reperfusion and leads to improved recovery of postischemic function.
an unusual complication of cardiac transplantation--infected aortic pseudoaneurysm. infections after cardiac transplantation are a frequent cause of early morbidity and mortality. an unusual site for such a complication is at the aortic anastomotic suture line. we report a case of an infected aortic pseudoaneurysm, seen as recurrent septicemia, during the first 6 months after cardiac transplantation.
extramedullary hematopoiesis involving the esophagus in myelofibrosis. in this report, we describe a case of myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia; a 53-yr-old man was splenectomized for a massively enlarged spleen in which multiple foci of myeloid metaplasia were histologically demonstrated. the patient was referred to us for endoscopic examination, following the repeated occurrence of melena. upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed two active ulcerative lesions in the bulb, and only a moderate erythema in the lower third of the esophagus, which showed no varices. there was no endoscopic evidence of active or recent bleeding. subsequent histologic examination of biopsies taken from the esophageal lesion surprisingly revealed the presence of hematopoietic tissue.
location of port-wine stains and the likelihood of ophthalmic and/or central nervous system complications. of 310 patients with port-wine stains, 68% had more than one dermatome involved; 85% had unilateral and 15% had a bilateral distribution of their port-wine stain. at the time of examination, 8% of all patients with trigeminal port-wine stains had evidence of eye and/or central nervous system (cns) involvement. extensive involvement, with port-wine stain over the trunk and extremities as well as the head and neck, was observed in 12%. patients who did not have port-wine stains on the areas served by branches v1 and v2 of the trigeminal nerve had no signs or symptoms of eye and/or cns involvement. port-wine stains of the eyelids, bilateral distribution of the birthmark, and unilateral port-wine stains involving all three branches of the trigeminal nerve were associated with a significantly higher likelihood of having eye and/or cns complications. twenty-four percent of those with bilateral trigeminal nerve port-wine stains had eye and/or cns involvement compared with 6% of those with unilateral lesions. all those who had eye and/or cns complications had port-wine stain involvement of the eyelids; in 91% both upper and lower eyelids were involved, whereas in 9% only the lower eyelid was involved. none of those with upper eyelid port-wine stains alone had eye and/or cns complications. in addition, 3 (75%) of the 4 subjects with seizures alone had bilateral port-wine stain involvement. a third group, these with unilateral v1, v2, and v3 port-wine stains, had eye and/or cns complications in 3 (19%) of 16 subjects.
effects of pill-giving on maintenance of placebo response in patients with chronic mild depression fifty outpatients with mild, chronic, mood-reactive depression whose mood improved markedly after a 10-day single-blind placebo trial were randomly assigned in a double-blind design either to have their placebo medication discontinued or to have it maintained for an additional 6 weeks. half of the patients in each condition relapsed within 6 weeks, indicating that pill-taking itself does not influence maintenance of placebo response. placebo response was more likely to be maintained in patients who were currently married. at the end of 3 months, the overall relapse rate was 58%. the authors raise questions about the utility of the initial 10-day placebo washout in antidepressant clinical trials, and they discuss limits on the generalizability of their findings.
takayasu's disease with axillary, right coronary artery, and right internal mammary stenosis treated with angioplasty. a 47-year-old woman presented with progressive angina and failed medical therapy. after an unsuccessful attempt at angioplasty of a totally occluded right coronary artery, coronary artery bypass using the right internal mammary artery was performed. she presented 2 years later with stenosis in the mammary graft, right coronary artery, and axillary artery. these lesions were all treated with angioplasty.
opioids in cerebrospinal fluid in hypotensive newborn pigs. this study was designed to determine if opioids were detectable in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and if these concentrations were altered by hemorrhagic hypotension. this study was further designed to determine the effects of topically administered opioids on pial arteriolar diameter during normotension and hypotension. closed cranial windows were used to determine pial arteriolar diameter. periarachnoid cortical and cisterna magna csf was collected from piglets during normotension and hypotension (systemic arterial pressure decreased from 63 +/- 1 to 33 +/- 1 mm hg). opioid profiles were assessed qualitatively by radioreceptor assay, and individual opioids were measured quantitatively by radioimmunoassay. periarachnoid cortical and cisterna magna csf methionine enkephalin-, leucine enkephalin-, dynorphin-, and beta-endorphin-like receptor active values all were increased by hypotension. when quantified by radioimmunoassay, periarachnoid cortical csf values for methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were 1,167 +/- 58 and 2,975 +/- 139 pg/ml for normotension and hypotension, respectively. periarachnoid cortical csf radioimmunoassay values for dynorphin-like immunoreactivity were 15 +/- 2 and 28 +/- 2 pg/ml for normotension and hypotension, respectively. when applied topically to the cortical surface, synthetic methionine enkephalin increased pial arteriolar diameter (134 +/- 4, 158 +/- 4, and 163 +/- 4 microns for control, 574 pg/ml [10(-10) m], and 5,740 pg/ml [10(-9) m], respectively). similarly, topical synthetic leucine enkephalin and dynorphin elicited pial arteriolar dilation. however, beta-endorphin produced arteriolar constriction. hypotension attenuated methionine and leucine enkephalin-induced dilation and reversed dynorphin-induced dilation to concentration-dependent constriction. beta-endorphin-induced constriction was not changed by hypotension. therefore, opioids could contribute to the control of the cerebral circulation during hypotension.
responses of cytosolic free calcium to adp in platelets of spontaneously hypertensive rats. abnormalities of ca2+ handling have been reported in patients with essential hypertension and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). in this study, responses of cytosolic ca2+ to adp in platelets of shr were examined. four- and seven-week-old male shr and age- and sex-matched wistar-kyoto rats (wky) were used. basal levels of the intracellular ca2+ concentration in platelets and responses to adp were estimated using fluorescent indicator fura-2 in the medium containing 1 mmol/l cacl2 and ca2(+)-free buffer with 1 mmol/l egta. basal levels of platelet cytosolic ca2+ of shr were significantly higher than those of wky at 4 and 7 weeks of age in the presence of external ca2+. however, no significant difference was observed in basal levels of platelet cytosolic ca2+ in the ca2(+)-free egta-containing buffer between shr and wky. the peak cytosolic ca2+ concentration evoked by adp was significantly diminished in shr compared with wky in the absence of external ca2+, whereas the responses of platelet cytosolic ca2+ to adp were similar in shr and wky in the presence of external ca2+. these results suggest that release from intracellular ca2+ store is reduced in shr and that the regulation of cytosolic ca2+ in shr is more dependent on extracellular ca2+ compared with wky.
pelvic floor descent in women: dynamic evaluation with fast mr imaging and cinematic display. the authors present a new method for assessing pelvic prolapse with dynamic fast magnetic resonance (mr) imaging. twenty-six women with signs and symptoms suggesting pelvic prolapse and 16 control subjects were studied with a series of fast (6-12-second) mr images. sagittal and coronal images were obtained with graded increase in voluntary pelvic strain, allowing for dynamic display and quantification of the pelvic prolapse process. the distance from the pubococcygeal line was used as an internal reference for measurement of descent in the maximal strain position. with use of control results for normal limit values, prolapse involving the anterior pelvic compartment (cystocele), the middle compartment (vaginal prolapse, uterine prolapse, and enterocele), and the posterior compartment (rectocele) was easily demonstrated. significant differences between control subjects and patients with prolapse were seen at maximal strain but not in the relaxed state. quantification of the pelvic descent process with use of fast mr imaging may be of value in surgical planning and postsurgical follow-up.
end-stage renal disease--is infrainguinal limb revascularization justified? reports of reconstructive surgery for peripheral vascular disease have been relatively uncommon in patients with end-stage renal disease. between 1980 and 1989, 39 patients with end-stage renal disease underwent revascularization of 56 limbs. fifty-two primary infrainguinal and four secondary infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed. in addition, nine thrombectomies were performed. at the time of surgery 37 patients were on dialysis; three had functioning kidney transplants. the indications for revascularization were gangrene, rest pain, or ulceration in all except three limbs with disabling claudication. reversed, nonreversed, or in situ vein was used in 25 of the 52 primary infrainguinal revascularizations performed. polytetrafluoroethylene was used in 25. two procedures used a combination of polytetrafluoroethylene and vein. the primary patencies for all infrainguinal procedures at 1 and 2 years were 77% and 68%, respectively. four perioperative deaths occurred in the infrainguinal group (7.7%). an additional death occurred after thrombectomy for late graft closure. three deaths were a result of myocardial infarction. one patient on peritoneal dialysis developed uncontrolled sepsis. at 3 years 39% of patients were alive, and 84% of the limbs were salvaged. among the cases studied no group was identified that represented unacceptable operative risk. results compared well with reported patencies for patients subjected to infrainguinal revascularization procedures. limb revascularization in patients with end-stage renal disease may be performed by use of similar criteria to those used for other patients with peripheral vascular disease.
acute promyelocytic leukemia: impact of hemorrhagic complications on response to induction chemotherapy and survival. from 1976 to 1989, 21 adult patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia were seen at the university of virginia hospital. we reviewed their cases retrospectively to determine the impact of hemorrhagic complications and other factors on treatment outcome. we observed a complete remission rate of 35%; the median survival in complete responders was 15 months. evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was found in 13 (62%) of the 21 cases at diagnosis. fatal intracranial hemorrhage was the leading cause of death, occurring in eight (40%) of the 20 patients evaluated. initial leukocyte count greater than 4.0 x 10(9)/l and platelet count less than 20 x 10(9)/l were significantly associated with an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. in patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation, the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was reduced by treatment with heparin. the high mortality of 40% (8/20) due to intracranial hemorrhage during induction was a major contributor to the low complete remission rate of 35% (7/20) in this series of consecutive unselected patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia.
results of stereotactic brachytherapy used in the initial management of patients with glioblastoma. recent studies have shown a survival benefit for patients with recurrent glioblastomas treated with stereotactic brachytherapy. on the basis of these encouraging results, we began a prospective study in 1987 to evaluate the use of brachytherapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. patients were considered eligible for this study if they met the following criteria: karnofsky performance status 70% or greater; tumor size not greater than 5 cm in any dimension; a radiographically well delineated, supratentorial lesion not involving the ependymal surfaces; and pathologically confirmed glioblastoma. we treated 35 such patients between 1987 and 1990 with stereotactic brachytherapy as part of their initial therapy. the treatment protocol involved surgery, partial brain external-beam radiotherapy (59.4 gy in 33 fractions), and stereotactic brachytherapy with temporary high-activity iodine 125 sources giving an additional 50 gy to the tumor bed. chemotherapy was not used in the initial management of these 35 patients. to compare our results with those obtained in a matched control group, we identified 40 patients with glioblastoma treated with surgery and external radiotherapy, with or without chemotherapy, between 1977 and 1986 at our institution. these patients had clinical and radiographic characteristics that would have made them eligible for the brachytherapy protocol. survival rates at 1 and 2 years after diagnosis were 87% and 57%, respectively, for patients receiving brachytherapy versus 40% and 12.5%, respectively, for the controls (p less than .001). we conclude that stereotactic brachytherapy improves the survival of patients with glioblastoma when it can be incorporated into the initial treatment approach. unfortunately, only about one in four patients with glioblastoma are suitable candidates for brachytherapy at the time of initial presentation.
syphilitic meningomyelitis. a 28-year-old nonimmunocompromised man developed secondary syphilis confirmed by serum and csf findings. his course was complicated by chorioretinitis, extensive skin lesions, and spastic paraparesis secondary to syphilitic meningomyelitis. mri of the spinal cord was strikingly abnormal.
tonic contraversive ocular tilt reaction due to unilateral meso-diencephalic lesion. we studied 4 patients with tonic contraversive ocular tilt reactions due to unilateral, paramedian, mesodiencephalic lesions. this is in contrast to the only 2 previously reported patients with ocular tilt reactions due to unilateral mesodiencephalic lesions, each of whom had a paroxysmal ipsiversive ocular tilt reaction. this new finding is considered in the context of previous clinical and experimental data on the various types of ocular tilt reactions that follow stimulation or destruction of the peripheral and central vestibular system. otolithic inputs to the interstitial nucleus of cajal from the contralateral vestibular nucleus and motor outputs from the interstitial nucleus of cajal to cervical and ocular motoneurons could be involved in the ocular tilt reaction. we propose that in patients with unilateral meso-diencephalic lesions, a tonic contraversive ocular tilt reaction could be due to persistently decreased resting activity of ipsilateral interstitial nucleus neurons, whereas a paroxysmal ipsiversive ocular tilt reaction could be due to transiently increased activity of the same interstitial nucleus neurons. cases of ocular tilt reaction due to unilateral meso-diencephalic lesion point to the existence of a crossed graviceptive pathway between the vestibular nucleus and the contralateral interstitial nucleus of cajal.
effects of calcium on vascular smooth muscle tone. it is generally acknowledged that calcium plays a major role in the generation of vascular tone. however, in recent years it has become increasingly evident that relatively calcium-insensitive pathways of excitation-contraction coupling also exist in the vascular smooth muscle cell. possible mechanisms of vascular smooth muscle contraction and their possible role in the pathophysiology of hypertension are reviewed. the rationale for the use of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of hypertension is discussed.
postoperative active specific immunization in colorectal cancer patients with virus-modified autologous tumor-cell vaccine. first clinical results with tumor-cell vaccines modified with live but avirulent newcastle disease virus [published erratum appears in cancer 1991 apr 15;67(8):2124] sixteen patients with colorectal carcinoma dukes' stage b2, c, or d were treated with an autologous virus-modified tumor-cell vaccine after potential curative tumor resection (r0-resection). an inoculum of 1 x 10(7) cells incubated with 32 hemagglutination units of nonirradiated newcastle disease virus (ndv) was given intracutaneously up to four times at 10-day intervals. the delayed-type hypersensitivity (dth) skin reaction was measured. the vaccination was well tolerated. in 11 of 16 patients an increasing reactivity against the vaccine was observed during the vaccination procedure. a challenge test using autologous tumor cells without ndv after the vaccination cycle revealed a specific antitumor sensibilization in 12 patients. the dth response was not due to bacterial contamination or sensibility to the virus. histologic examination of the vaccination site showed a dense infiltration of predominantly helper t-lymphocytes. we conclude that in most of the patients treated active, specific immunization led to a specific antitumor sensitivity.
refeeding of infants with acute diarrheal disease. the purpose of this study was to determine which infant formula among five would be the most efficacious for the refeeding of infants during an acute episode of diarrhea. fifty male infants less than 12 months of age with severe diarrhea and at least 5% dehydration were admitted to a metabolic unit and studied in a prospective, single-blind protocol. ten infants randomly received one of five types of formula: two-thirds diluted cow milk, cow milk formula (nanon, nestle, inc., sao paulo, brazil), portagen, pregestimil, or prosobee (mead johnson & co. division, evansville, ind.). they continued to receive the same formula for 72 hours unless dehydration occurred. there were no associated infections, and they received no prior antibiotic treatment. oral hydration together with intravenous fluid therapy was given to all patients during the initial treatment. during the first 72 hours of refeeding, patients fed portagen excreted the least amount of stool and required reduced quantities of intravenous fluids or oral hydration. in contrast, patients fed diluted cow milk or any other formula had more severe diarrhea. nine of the 10 patients fed portagen completed the 72-hour treatment, whereas only 2 of 10 fed diluted cow milk tolerated it. similarly, the cumulative proportions for high purging rate, dehydration, carbohydrate intolerance, and vomiting were more favorable for portagen and least acceptable for diluted cow milk. no differences were found among the remaining three formulas tested. these data show that diluted cow milk is poorly tolerated by infants with severe diarrhea, whereas portagen is more effective.
the use of the cytobrush cervical sampler in patients with cervical stenosis. in 37 of 43 patients (86%) with cervical stenosis (inability to undergo passage of the cotton-tipped applicator), the cytobrush cervical sampler was successfully passed into the endocervical canal. the use of the cytobrush sampler for cervical cytologic screening appears to be valuable in patients with cervical stenosis.
combined computed tomography and dacryocystography for complex lacrimal problems. two imaging modalities, computed tomography (ct) and dacryocystography (dcg), were combined to demonstrate the relationships between the lacrimal system and the surrounding soft-tissue structures. in selected cases, such as those involving severe facial trauma, midfacial tumours, significant sinus disease, or previous lacrimal, nasal or sinus surgery, this imaging technique may be useful in better evaluating the anatomy of the lacrimal system and planning a surgical approach.
postoperative complications after molteno implant surgery. we performed molteno implant surgery in one eye each of 41 patients with uncontrolled glaucoma. intraocular pressure was controlled (intraocular pressure less than or equal to 18 mm hg) in 32 eyes (78%). the mean preoperative intraocular pressure was 40 +/- 13.2 mm hg, whereas the mean postoperative intraocular pressure was 16 +/- 6.6 mm hg. patients were followed up for an average of 16 months after the operation. visual acuity was unchanged in 23 eyes (56%), improved in nine eyes (22%), and poorer in nine eyes (22%). the major complications included shallow anterior chamber and hypotony in six eyes (14.6%), vitreous hemorrhage in two eyes (4.9%), retinal detachment in one eye (2.4%), and malignant glaucoma in two eyes (4.9%). less grave complications included hyphema in four eyes (9.8%), peripheral choroidal effusion in 15 eyes (36.6%), obstruction of the tube in six eyes (14.6%), recession of the tube into the angle in two eyes (4.9%), erosion of the tube in one eye (2.4%), and tenon's cyst formation in three eyes (7.3%).
osteomalacia in hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria: a correlative clinical-histomorphometric study. we characterized the bone disease of transilial biopsy specimens from children with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (hhrh) and genetically related asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects. all hhrh patients showed irregular mineralization fronts, markedly elevated osteoid surface and seam width, increased number of osteoid lamellae, and prolonged mineralization lag time. these findings are consistent with a mineralization defect and indicate unambiguously that the bone disease in hhrh is osteomalacia. the only abnormality seen in the asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects was slightly extended osteoid surface. parametric and nonparametric statistical analyses performed on a pooled sample of hhrh patients and asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects revealed a very high inverse correlation and a tight linear relationship between serum phosphorus and osteoid parameters. serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, which is low in other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia, is elevated in hhrh and correlated positively with osteoid parameters and the mineralization lag time. serum alkaline phosphatase showed similar relationships. these results as well as the clinical, biochemical, and radiological remission of bone disease consequent to phosphate therapy strongly suggest that in hhrh 1) hypophosphatemia alone is sufficient to cause osteomalacia; and 2) the elevation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d reflects the degree of the primary renal phosphate leak, but is not involved in the pathogenesis of the bone disease.
arteriovenous malformation of the tongue. polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful. additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue. we conclude that embolization therapy can be used, but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined.
different patterns of gene expression in ras-resistant and ras-sensitive cells. we have shown previously that nontumorigenic nih 3t3 cells can be made tumorigenic and metastatic by transfection and expression of activated ras, whereas in lta cells, which are tumorigenic but nonmetastatic, the degree of malignancy is not altered by ras. to investigate possible mechanisms of natural ras resistance, we compared the expression patterns of several genes thought to be involved in ras-induced metastatic progression in lta (ras-resistant) and nih 3t3 (ras-sensitive) cells, before and after constitutive expression of transfected t24-h-ras. we examined the expression of the nuclear "early-response" genes jun and fos and the "tumor-suppressor" retinoblastoma (rb) gene, as well as genes involved in invasion (major excreted protein [mep], tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases [timp]), and cell adhesion (secreted phosphoprotein 1 [spp1; also known as osteopontin]). we found distinct differences in both the basal and ras-induced levels of expression of most of these genes in lta versus nih 3t3 cells. high levels of mep and low levels of timp were induced in ras-transfected nih 3t3 cells, whereas lta cells showed intermediate levels of mep and high levels of timp that were only marginally affected by the expression of transfected ras. similarly, spp1 expression was strongly induced by ras in nih 3t3 cells but was repressed by ras in lta cells. enzymogram assays for functional gelatinase activity showed an increase in 67-kd and 62-kd bands in nih 3t3 cells in the presence of ras. lta cells showed no gelatinolytic activity in the presence or absence of ras. data from an in vitro assay for chemoinvasiveness showed a pattern as predicted from the expression of invasion-related genes; chemoinvasiveness in ras-transfected nih 3t3 was greater than in lta and ras-transfected lta cells, which was greater than in nih 3t3 cells. differences in expression of the genes examined are believed to contribute to the ras responsiveness of nih 3t3 cells and the ras resistance of lta cells.
anisocoria in unilateral ophthalmic disease. pupillary diameters in the affected and unaffected eyes of 327 patients with uniocular red eye were assessed during fixation of a distant target. the mean pupillary diameters were similar in the unaffected eyes in each of eight diagnostic groups, but were significantly different (f = 3.84, p less than 0.001) in the diseased eyes. with corneal abrasions (p less than 0.001), marginal keratitis (p less than 0.05), and acute anterior uveitis (p less than 0.001) the mean pupillary diameter for the affected eye was significantly smaller than that of the unaffected eye. the observed differences of pupillary diameter probably reflect the role of neuronal and autocoid mechanisms in the unilateral control of pupillary size.
rectal bleeding. patient delay in presentation. patient delay in presentation of rectal bleeding has been identified as a factor in delayed diagnosis among patients with colorectal cancer. the aim of this study was to identify demographic or psychological factors, or beliefs or behaviors related to delay in presentation of rectal bleeding. in 93 patients presenting with this symptom to their general practitioner, delay ranged from 0 to 249 days with a median of 7 days; 27 (29 percent) delayed more than 14 days. delay was unrelated to age, sex, ethnic origin, competence in english, length of schooling, social status, availability of social support, measured psychologic traits, and to the belief that the cause might be cancer. the proportions delaying more than 14 days were statistically significantly elevated among those who were not worried by the bleeding (47 percent delayed); those who did not regularly look at their feces or the toilet paper after use (37 percent); and those who took some other action before presenting to their general practitioner (43 percent).
slowly progressive aphasia: three cases with language, memory, ct and pet data. three cases of slowly progressive speech and language disturbance were studied at various points post onset (three, five and 15 years respectively). language, neuropsychological and brain imaging (computer tomography and positron emission tomography) evaluations were completed on all three patients. the data suggest that the syndrome of "progressive aphasia": 1) does not involve a uniform symptom complex; 2) does not necessarily develop into a full blown dementia syndrome; 3) varies greatly in rate of progression from case to case; 4) is associated with normal brain structure (on computer tomography); and 5) is associated with abnormal left temporal lobe metabolism as measured by fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) positron emission tomography (pet). one patient had histological findings consistent with alzheimer's disease at necropsy.
genotypic analyses of richter's syndrome. the authors report the immunogenotype of two cases of richter's syndrome. the immunoglobulin gene rearrangement pattern obtained on southern blot analysis was found in both cases to be the same in leukemic blood cells and in the tissue involved by the lymphoma. the beta chain and gamma chain t-cell receptor gene rearrangement pattern exhibited a germ-line configuration in the peripheral blood cells and in the lymph node in case 2, whereas in case 1 the lymph node had a gene rearrangement in the beta chain, as well as in the gamma chain t-cell receptor, and the leukemic cells from bone marrow were found to be in a germ-line configuration for t-cell receptors (beta and gamma chains).
human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy. a study of liver volume by computed tomography. regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography (ct) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients. liver volumes were measured by abdominal ct 3 days, 10 days, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 1.5 years after resection. of the 17 patients, liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2% +/- 6.7% and 30.6% +/- 12.7% at 3 months and 6 months after resection, respectively. noncirrhotic livers were 28.4% +/- 9.5% and 48.4% +/- 17.8% larger at 3 and 6 months. for cirrhotic livers, the increase was 8.5% +/- 3.6% and 12.9% +/- 4.5%. in five patients with right hepatectomy (65% resection), the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4% +/- 11.7%, 48.0% +/- 16.2% and 95.1% +/- 4.5% at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resection, respectively. in seven patients with right partial hepatectomy (30% to 35% resection), the percentages were 7.4% +/- 3.2%, 21.8% +/- 8.4%, and 63.9% +/- 18.3% and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy (15% resection), they were 15.6% +/- 8.2%, 27.8% +/- 12.2%, and 33.0% +/- 14.5% 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resections, respectively. noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers. complete regeneration took about 1 year. the noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume.
apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a non-oriental man. japanese investigators first described apical hcm in 2.9% of patients who had diagnostic left ventricular catheterization for suspected ischemic heart disease or cardiomyopathy. this entity was initially thought to be limited to individuals of asian origin and has been uncommonly described in patients of western origin. patients of western origin differ in several ways from those in the original description of yamaguchi et al, but they both share the same classic criterion of hypertrophy of the left ventricular apex. the major differences probably relate to the anatomic variation in the distribution of the left ventricular hypertrophy as described by maron et al. it is not known whether racial, genetic, or environmental factors account for the variation of disease expression in asian and western patients. our case illustrates that this diagnosis should be considered in patients who have chest pain (anginal or atypical) and markedly abnormal findings on electrocardiograms in the absence of hypertension or significant coronary artery disease.
sudden death due to delayed rupture of hepatic subcapsular hematoma following blunt abdominal trauma. blunt abdominal trauma can cause sudden, unexpected death due to injuries to internal organs. rupture of a hepatic subcapsular hematoma is a relatively rare cause of sudden death following minor blunt abdominal trauma. death may be delayed several days to weeks. the autopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool that can be utilized to uncover sudden deaths due to abdominal trauma. the case of an alcoholic who died of a ruptured hepatic subcapsular hematoma is presented. the death investigation revealed that the victim had sustained blunt abdominal trauma during a fall a few days prior to death.
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in young patients. an international survey identified 40 patients less than 20 years old who underwent surgical implantation of an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (aicd). there was a history of aborted sudden cardiac death or sustained ventricular tachycardia in 92.5% of these patients. twenty-two patients (55%) had structural heart disease; dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were the most common diagnoses. eighteen patients (45%) had primary electrical abnormalities including seven with the congenital long qt syndrome. there were no perioperative deaths associated with device implantation. concomitant drug therapy was administered to 75% of the patients. defibrillator discharge occurred in 70% of the patients, with 17 patients (42.5%) receiving at least one appropriate shock. there were two sudden and two nonsudden deaths at 28.2 months' median follow-up. sudden death-free survival rates by life table analysis at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.88, respectively. total survival rates at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.82, respectively. the aicd represents an effective treatment approach for young patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
mental activity, adrenergic modulation, and cardiac arrhythmias in patients with heart disease. all of the electrophysiological mechanisms of arrhythmias are sensitive to the influences of the autonomic nervous system, particularly to its adrenergic limb. arrhythmogenic areas may also be dependent on the inhomogeneity of these influences because of their pathophysiological structure and/or the neurogenic or humoral nature of the vector of modulation. the complexity of the various possible scenarios, combined with the role of the rate dependence, explains why standardized protocols exploring the autonomic nervous system in clinical arrhythmias are difficult to define. invasive electrophysiology is not adapted to address the problem. isoprenaline infusion only reproduces the humoral adrenergic stimulation to which only a few types of arrhythmias are sensitive. the exercise test is a very complex investigation if the multiple parameters involved are considered. only a part of its limitations are obviated by the mental stress. under natural conditions, the neurogenic origin, the intensity of the sympathetic stimulation, and its suddenness are all critical factors responsible for severe tachyarrhythmias. arrhythmias of the long qt syndrome are particularly demonstrative of the importance of the autonomic nervous system, but this evidence can also be documented in more trivial circumstances of diseased or apparently undiseased hearts. exploring the autonomic nervous system behavior through heart rate variability in ambulatory recordings is the most recent and fruitful method of investigation. this nonprovocative approach has technical obstacles and practical and theoretical limitations related to the fundamental nature of the autonomic nervous system, which is both a marker of the cardiac status and a determinant of arrhythmias.
undetected fatal acute pancreatitis: why is the disease so frequently overlooked? an analysis of postmortem investigations between 1980 and 1985 revealed 43 patients with acute pancreatitis. in 13 (30.2%) of them, the diagnosis was first established at autopsy. in eight of the latter patients, the diagnosis could have been present on admission. the etiology was alcoholism in three patients, hypothermia in one, biliary tract disease in one, and unknown in three patients. in five patients, acute pancreatitis developed after gastric, pancreatic, or biliary tract surgery. abdominal pain was present in only one patient. amylase levels had been estimated in 11 patients, but the level was in the diagnostic range (greater than or equal to 3 times of upper normal level) in only four. consequently, ultrasound examination was performed in only two of the latter four patients, but failed to show the pancreas because of intestinal gas. to diagnose acute pancreatitis at an earlier stage and to improve therapy and prognosis, we recommend that serum amylase levels be measured and ultrasound examination be performed. if the results are inconclusive, this should be followed by computed tomography for all abdominal emergency cases and for patients who have undergone cardiopulmonary or upper abdominal surgery, especially when the patients deteriorate or fail to improve postoperatively.
pathogenesis of ceftriaxone-associated biliary sludge. in vitro studies of calcium-ceftriaxone binding and solubility. ceftriaxone, a semisynthetic third-generation cephalosporin, has recently been associated with biliary sludge formation. analysis of the biliary concretions induced by this agent shows a calcium salt of ceftriaxone. the present in vitro studies were undertaken to provide insight into the pathogenesis of ceftriaxone-associated biliary sludge formation by evaluating possible interactions that may exist between calcium, bile salts, and ceftriaxone. ceftriaxone possessed high calcium-binding affinity. the formation constant for the calcium ceftriaxone salt at 37 degrees c was about 157.3 l/mol; stoichiometry of the salt was 1:1, i.e., calcium ceftriaxone. the calcium-binding property of ceftriaxone was observed to be additive to that of taurocholate in mixed taurocholate-ceftriaxone solutions. although the solubility product constant for calcium ceftriaxone was only 1.62 x 10(-6) mol/l2, marked metastability was observed; neither visible nor microscopic precipitates developed until the [ca2+] x [ceftriaxone] ion product exceeded the solubility product constant by a factor of 10.4. metastability of the calcium ceftriaxone salt was also observed in human gallbladder bile in vitro. estimates of human biliary calcium ceftriaxone solubility in vivo were than calculated from previously-reported values for biliary [ca2+], [ceftriaxone], and from the solubility product constant as defined in this study. calculated saturation indices for calcium-ceftriaxone in human bile generally increased (corresponding to a decrease in solubility) with increasing ceftriaxone dose. at doses less than or equal to 1 g, saturation index was well within the metastable range of this calcium-salt. however, at doses greater than or equal to 2 g, the saturation index surpassed the metastable limit. under these conditions, precipitation of ceftriaxone could occur. it was concluded that the development of ceftriaxone-induced biliary sludge is a solubility problem that occurs in patients receiving high-dose treatment (greater than or equal to 2 g). this study proposes that the risk of developing ceftriaxone-associated biliary "pseudolithiasis" increases with increasing ceftriaxone dose and in patients with impaired gallbladder emptying.
a cohort study of fat intake and risk of breast cancer. between 1982 and 1987, 519 newly incident, histologically confirmed cases of breast cancer were identified in a cohort of 56,837 women enrolled in the canadian national breast screening study. these women had completed a dietary questionnaire before the occurrence of their breast cancer, and this has been used to estimate their intake of dietary fat and several other nutrients. there is evidence of a positive association between breast cancer and total fat intake, with a relative risk of 1.35 (95% confidence interval, 1.00-1.82) per 77 g per day, and some evidence of a dose-response relationship (p = .052).
left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction: clinical course and beneficial effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition. lv enlargement is an important determinant of survival after ami. pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to lv dilatation after an ami include early thinning and stretching of the infarcted segment (e.g., infarct expansion) and hypertrophy of the noninfarcted myocardium. such lv dilatation may adversely affect subsequent cardiac function, leading to heart failure and death. experimental data in animals and preliminary studies in humans have demonstrated that early administration of captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, may limit infarct expansion and will attenuate progressive lv dilatation. this article discussed the clinical importance of the dilated left ventricle and reviewed advances and ongoing research in the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the chronic phase after ami.
advantages of a narrow-range, medium molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis objective: to compare the effectiveness of two hydroxyethyl starch solutions of different molecular weight ranges for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis. design: randomized prospective trial. setting: laboratory investigation. subjects: adolescent female pigs weighing approximately 30 kg. interventions: we compared diafiltered 6% pentastarch with 6% high molecular weight hetastarch for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis. the number average molecular weight of pentastarch is higher than hetastarch, although the weight average molecular weight is lower, i.e., a narrow range of medium weight molecules. the infusion rate of each agent was adjusted to maintain baseline arterial hct for less than or equal to 7 hr after instrumentation and induction of fecal peritonitis. main outcome measurements: the volume of fluid required to maintain arterial hct was compared along with comparisons of hemodynamic and histologic responses associated with the two agents. results: significantly less pentastarch was required to prevent hemoconcentration than hetastarch (109 +/- 22.8 vs. 150 +/- 10.3 ml/kg; p less than .05) while hemodynamics, colloid osmotic pressure, and oxygen transport responses were similar. capillary patency was greater (21.99 +/- 3.68 vs. 10.09 +/- 1.17%; p less than .05) and mean alveolar capillary barrier thickness was less (2.36 +/- 0.13 vs. 3.06 +/- 0.17 microns; p less than .05) with pentastarch than with hetastarch, as judged by electron microscopy. conclusions: these data suggest that pentastarch is better retained in the circulation in capillary leak syndromes compared with hetastarch.
effect of high-dose furosemide in refractory congestive heart failure. high-dose firosemide is considered effective in primary renal sodium retention but is not generally recommended in congestive heart failure. in order to evaluate efficacy and safety of high-dose furosemide (greater than 500 mg/day), the authors studied 20 patients (pts) resistant to therapy (including furosemide less than 500 mg/day) selected from 161 pts admitted for chronic heart failure. all refractory pts (15 men and 5 women, mean age sixty +/- 12 years) were in nyha class iv and showed hyponatremia (130 +/- 5 meq/l) and impaired renal function (bun 31 +/- 14 mg/dl, serum creatinine 1.3 +/- 0.3 mg/dl and bun/creatinine ratio 23 +/- 7). in addition to digitalis, dopamine, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or vasodilators, iv high-dose furosemide (775 +/- 419 mg/day, 500-2000) was given for ten +/- five days under daily clinical and laboratory monitoring. three pts died of low-output syndrome while 16 pts were upgraded to nyha class iii and 1 pt to class ii; a mean weight reduction of 7.3 +/- 2.9 kg in ten + five days (0.80 +/- 0.4 kg/day) and a mean diuresis increase of 88 +/- 57% occurred. the maximal dose of furosemide did not correlate with serum creatinine but did correlate with bun/creatinine ratio (r = 0.78, p less than .001). pts were discharged on with chronic heart failure, and 43% in the subgroup in nyha class iv with hyponatremia. high dose furosemide was effective for rapid removal of excess water and salt in "furosemide-resistant" congestive heart failure. the relationship between renal impairment and maximal furosemide doses seems to confirm the role of renal pharmacokinetics in the appearance of furosemide resistance.
is obesity-related hypertension less of a cardiovascular risk? the framingham study. the hypothesis that obesity-related hypertension is relatively innocuous was explored by an examination of cardiovascular events over 34 years of follow-up when related to biennially measured weights and blood pressures using time-dependent covariate proportional hazards analysis. the 5209 participants were also classified by age, cigarette smoking, and antihypertensive treatment at each of four baseline examinations with 8-year follow-up periods. over the period of follow-up, there were 978 cardiovascular events in men and 836 in women. risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in general and of chd in particular was as strongly related to hypertension at all levels of body mass index. this was also found to apply when adjustment was made for possible confounding by cigarette smoking. age and smoking-adjusted absolute risks of cardiovascular events were found to be higher in hypertensive individuals with high than with low bmis. furthermore, the relative risk of cardiovascular disease did not vary significantly with bmi. thus hypertension is at least as dangerous in obese as in lean persons at all ages in either sex, providing no support for the hypothesis that hypertension in the obese is more benign. this is important, since obesity predisposes to hypertension and most who have hypertension are obese. this report examines the hypothesis for cvd outcomes considered by previous reports and also the subcategories of cvd disease such as myocardial infarction and stroke, and includes data on both men and women and on young and old.
significance of blasts in low-cell-count cerebrospinal fluid specimens from children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the purpose of this study was to determine whether the presence of more than 5% blasts in a differential count of cytocentrifuged cerebrospinal fluid (csf) with less than 6 leukocytes/microliter was predictive of central nervous system (cns) relapse in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). a double concentrate method of cytocentrifuge preparation was used to analyze 4543 consecutive csf specimens from 349 children with all between january 1, 1982, and september 30, 1988. one hundred nine csf specimens from 58 evaluable children had less than 6 leukocytes/microliter and more than 5% blasts on cytocentrifuge differential count (low-cell-count specimen with blasts [lcb]). during the study period, 25 of 332 evaluable children (7.5%) had cns leukemic recurrence. in 22 of 25 (88%), the cns relapse was preceded by at least one abnormal low-cell-count csf specimen. one of 34 patients with a single lcb at diagnosis (3%) had subsequent cns relapse compared with five of eight patients (62.5%) with a single lcb during remission (p = 0.0002). of 16 children with two or more lcb during remission, nine (56%) had cns relapse defined by standard criteria, whereas six additional patients in this group were declared to be in cns relapse on the basis of their repetitive lcb. whether diagnosing cns recurrence earlier in its course based on a modification of the definition of cns leukemia will change the frequency of subsequent adverse events or make possible decreased intensity of cns retreatment remains to be determined.
the role of infection in the morbidity and mortality of patients with head and neck cancer undergoing multimodality therapy. cancer of the head and neck is a common cancer worldwide. the majority of patients present with locally advanced disease. recently a great deal of improvement has been made in multimodality therapy of this disease, warranting more careful consideration of factors affecting quality of life, disease course, and treatment. infection is clearly a factor. analysis of 662 hospital admissions of 169 head and neck cancer patients was performed. a definite infection was documented in 86 febrile episodes, pneumonia contributed to 40%, bacteremia to 13%, skin and soft tissue infection to 12%, and tracheobronchitis to 10%. among the evaluated risk factors, foreign bodies, specifically intravenous (iv) cannulae and gastrostomy tubes, race, performance status, alcohol intake, and nutritional status were statistically significant variables that predicted for or were associated with infection. infection contributed to 44% of the deaths.
exercise intolerance in patients with heart failure and preserved left ventricular systolic function: failure of the frank-starling mechanism invasive cardiopulmonary exercise testing was performed in 7 patients who presented with congestive heart failure, normal left ventricular ejection fraction and no significant coronary or valvular heart disease and in 10 age-matched normal subjects. compared with the normal subjects, patients demonstrates severe exercise intolerance with a 48% reduction in peak oxygen consumption (11.6 +/- 4.0 versus 22.7 +/- 6.1 ml/kg per min; p less than 0.001), primarily due to a 41% reduction in peak cardiac index (4.2 +/- 1.4 versus 7.1 +/- 1.1 liters/min per m2; p less than 0.001). in patients compared with normal subjects, peak left ventricular stroke volume index (34 +/- 9 versus 46 +/- 7 ml/min per m2; p less than 0.01) and end-diastolic volume index (56 +/- 14 versus 68 +/- 12 ml/min per m2; p less than 0.08) were reduced, whereas peak ejection fraction and end-systolic volume index were not different. in patients, the change in end-diastolic volume index during exercise correlated strongly with the change in stroke volume index (r = 0.97; p less than 0.0001) and cardiac index (r = 0.80; p less than 0.03). pulmonary wedge pressure was markedly increased at peak exercise in patients compared with normal subjects (25.7 +/- 9.1 versus 7.1 +/- 4.4 mm hg; p less than 0.0001). patients demonstrated a shift of the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure-volume relation upward and to the left at rest. increases in left ventricular filling pressure during exercise were not accompanied by increases in end-diastolic volume, indicating a limitation to left ventricular filling.
obliterative bronchiolitis: virus induced? this report describes a 28-year-old patient with an acute onset of respiratory symptoms associated with clinical and roentgenographic features of an interstitial lung disease which proved fatal. the entity of bronchiolitis obliterans, which was diagnosed on transbronchial biopsy, is discussed, with particular emphasis on the postinfectious type.
sudden death associated with undiagnosed graves' disease. hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone. we report a case of graves' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy, undiagnosed young female. this case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of graves' disease.
diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography. the presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations. this flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood. we demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations. the mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds, with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations. the presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia. therefore, the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value. however, our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation, namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation.
inflammatory pseudotumor of intra-abdominal lymph nodes manifesting as recurrent fever of unknown origin: a case report. a 27-year-old man presented with a 7-month history of debilitating recurrent fever and weight loss. extensive clinical evaluation led to the discovery of splenomegaly and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy. the patient underwent splenectomy as well as liver and lymph node biopsy. histologic examination of the lymph nodes, but not the liver and spleen, revealed inflammatory pseudotumor of lymph nodes. the patient has remained asymptomatic for more than 3 years following the surgical procedure despite the absence of further intervention. inflammatory pseudotumor of lymph nodes should be considered in the differential evaluation of prolonged or relapsing fever of unknown etiology.
a6--a new 45ro monoclonal antibody for immunostaining of paraffin-embedded tissues. the authors report on the extensive characterization, on normal and pathologic tissues, of the t-cell-specific monoclonal antibody (moab) a6, which the authors previously found to identify a fixation- and paraffin-embedding-resistant epitope. a6 reacted with most t lymphocytes, macrophages, and langerhans' cells of normal tissues and with peripheral t-cell lymphomas (31 of 34), ki-1+ lymphomas (12 of 18), and t-cell leukemias (1 of 5). all cases of x and non-x histiocytosis examined and monocytic leukemias with mature phenotype only were a6 positive. three of 47 cases of b-cell lymphoma and leukemia were labeled. hairy cell leukemias, multiple myelomas, and hodgkin's and reed-sternberg cells were negative. the a6 reactivity was preserved with different fixatives (formalin, bouin's fluid, carnoy's fixative, and b5) and decalcification procedures and was slightly enhanced by trypsin digestion. the pattern of reactivity of a6 was similar to that obtained with moab uchl-1, recognizing the cd45ro determinant of leukocyte common antigen; however, in pathologic tissues, a6 labeled a higher percentage of cells than uchl-1. cross-blocking and enzyme digestion studies (pronase e [sigma chemical, st. louis, mo] and neuraminidase [sigma chemical]) indicated that the two moabs may identify close epitopes on the same molecule. in conclusion, the authors' study indicates that a6 is an excellent reagent for detection of the cd45ro molecule on paraffin-embedded normal and pathologic tissues.
blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia associated with a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma. blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia is characterized by the presence of spasms of the orbicularis oculi (blepharospasm) and of the lower facial or oromandibular muscles. a patient with this syndrome is presented in which a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma appeared to act as a triggering mechanism for the development of this disorder. on the basis of this report, we recommend that physicians search for this tumor in patients with this disorder.
drug induced refractory headache--clinical features and management. two hundred patients who were taking daily symptomatic or immediate relief medications, often in excessive quantities, yet suffering from daily or near daily severe headaches were studied. one hundred and sixteen (58%) of them were also taking concomitant prophylactic medications and they were ineffective. low tyramine, low caffeine dietary instructions and biofeedback training were given to all patients. the effect of continuing symptomatic medications, discontinuing symptomatic medications, and adding or changing prophylactic medications were studied in the various treatment groups. it is concluded that; 1.) daily use of symptomatic or immediate relief medications result in chronic daily headache. 2.) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications itself result in improvement of headache. 3.) concomitant use of symptomatic medications nullifies the effect of prophylactic medications. 4.) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications enhances the beneficial effect of prophylactic medications.
oral indomethacin for acute renal colic. a number of studies have suggested that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can relieve renal colic by a mechanism of action different from that of narcotics, offering the potential advantage of avoiding narcotic side-effects such as alteration of mental status. the authors prospectively administered oral indomethacin, 50 mg, to 25 nonvomiting patients with acute renal colic due to a documented stone. eleven patients group (i) received the drug in an unblinded, nonrandomized fashion after failure of oral or parenteral narcotics to provide satisfactory pain relief, either at home or in the emergency department. in 14 additional patients group (ii) indomethacin was given as the only initial treatment. pain intensity before and after treatment was reported using a 1-to-10 scale. in group i, pain decreased from 5.8 +/- 2.7 to 3.6 +/- 3.8 (p less than .02). six of the 11 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50% or more, which occurred within 25 +/- 11 minutes, and in 5 of these 6, pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level. in group ii, pain decreased from 7.6 +/- 1.5 to 4.6 +/- 4.0 (p less than .008). eight of the 14 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50% or more, which occurred within 40 +/- 14 minutes, and in 5 of these 8 pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level. among all 25 patients who received indomethacin, pain relief was not significantly associated with the duration of pain before treatment or with patient age or sex. there was a trend for pretreatment pain intensity to be higher among nonresponders (p = .07).
factors predicting satisfactory home care after stroke. this study prospectively investigated factors predicting optimal poststroke home care. one hundred and thirty-five first occurrence stroke patients and their primary support persons were evaluated during the initial hospitalization after stroke and again one year poststroke. discriminant function analysis was used to identify two groups from the baseline data: home care situations which were rated optimal and those which were not. group membership was predicted and validated with 72.6% accuracy. patients at risk for less than optimal home care had caregivers who were (1) more likely to be depressed, (2) less likely to be married to the patient, (3) below average in knowledge about stroke care, and (4) reporting more family dysfunction. our findings suggest that caregiver-related problems can have a collective effect on rehabilitation outcome and that treatment should reduce caregiver depression, minimize family dysfunction, and increase the family's knowledge about stroke care.
sodium sensitive and sodium retaining hypertension. the differences between sodium sensitive and sodium retaining hypertension were theoretically considered using a water tank model of body fluid volume-blood pressure regulation. if an outlet valve is attached to a tank with a base area corresponding to the reciprocal of total peripheral resistance (tpr) and water is poured into this tank at a rate corresponding to the amount of na+ intake, then equilibrium should be achieved at a certain water level, volume and output from the outlet, which represent mean arterial pressure (map), cardiac output (co) and urinary na+ excretion. the height of the outlet from the tank bottom and the size cross-sectional area, of the outlet correspond to the x-intercept and slope of the renal function (pressure-natriuresis) curve, respectively. in both nonsodium sensitive hypertension, due to the shift of the curve toward a higher blood pressure level (elevated height of the outlet) without change in the slope (size of the outlet), and sodium sensitive hypertension, due to the depressed slope of the curve (reduced outlet size), not only map (water level) but also co (water volume) are increased, resulting in sodium retaining hypertension, if tpr (reciprocal of base area) remained unchanged, while co is relatively unchanged, resulting in nonsodium retaining hypertension, if tpr is elevated. thus, the map and its sensitivity to sodium intake is determined by the renal function curve. since body fluid volume is determined by both the renal function curve and tpr, however, changes in tpr during the development of hypertension is a major factor in determining whether or not the body fluid volume has to change only a small amount or a large amount. therefore, the sodium sensitivity of blood pressure and sodium retention must be considered separately.
pancreatic pseudocyst in the left hepatic lobe: a report of two cases. the ultrasound and computed tomographic imaging features in a rare pancreatic pseudocyst of the liver are described in two patients. the pseudocysts occurred in the left lobe in both cases, one after a traumatic injury and the other after alcoholic pancreatitis. the possible topographical sequences with which pancreatic secretions entered the left hepatic lobe to form a cyst are discussed.
indium-111-antimyosin scintigraphy after doxorubicin therapy in patients with advanced breast cancer indium-111-antimyosin (111in-antimyosin) scans were performed in 20 women with advanced breast cancer after 10 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin (total cumulative dose of doxorubicin of 500 mg/m2). antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was quantified by means of a heart-to-lung ratio (hlr). antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was observed in 17/20 (85%) patients, and hlr after chemotherapy was 1.86 +/- 0.25. left ventricular ejection fraction (ef) was determined before and after chemotherapy. patients with decreased ef (8/20, 40%) presented with more intense antimyosin uptake (hlr of 2.11 +/- 0.10 versus 1.70 +/- 0.16 (p = 0.01]. hlr values correlated with ef values after chemotherapy (r = -0.47, p less than 0.05). positive antimyosin studies after chemotherapy including doxorubicin, indicate the presence of myocardial damage in these patients. antimyosin studies are a sensitive method to detect myocyte damage in patients after doxorubicin therapy.
an outpatient anticoagulation protocol managed by a vascular nurse-clinician. lifetime anticoagulation has become a therapeutic option for surgical patients with hypercoagulable states or prosthetic arterial bypass grafts. however, physicians may not achieve optimal anticoagulation or may attempt to limit the length of the therapy period because of the perceived morbidity from hemorrhagic complications of coumadin therapy. a protocol for anticoagulant therapy monitored and regulated by a vascular nurse-clinician was reviewed. coumadin was prescribed for 1,891 patient-months to 93 patients to maintain their prothrombin time 1.5 to 2 times control (range: 18 to 24 seconds). the mean (+/- sd) prothrombin time for the study population was 19.8 +/- 1.8 seconds. during follow-up, 472 (14%) of 3,479 prothrombin times measured were below the therapeutic range (n = 232) or prolonged (n = 240), prompting an adjustment in the coumadin dose in 82 (88%) patients. four patients developed recurrent vascular graft thrombosis while receiving anticoagulation. there were 6 major and 11 minor hemorrhagic complications. patients with a chronic risk for arterial or venous thrombosis can have out-patient anticoagulant therapy administered at optimal intensity and regulated safely with a low incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events.
blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer: the role of platelet derived growth factors. efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion. however, the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive. we have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon. using a human fibroblast: [125i]deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay, the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured. there was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 (n = 6) to day 28 (n = 6; p less than 0.001, mann-whitney u test). the effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in hooded lister rats. following an intraportal injection of 10(5) mc28 tumour cells, the experimental group (n = 25) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days. likewise, colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10(3) cells. the experimental groups (n = 20) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally (n = 19). there was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group (p less than 0.01). growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer.
hypoxia induces a specific set of stress proteins in cultured endothelial cells. vascular endothelial cells (ec) are the initial cells within the vascular wall exposed to decreases in blood ambient oxygen concentration. the mechanisms by which they tolerate low levels of oxygen are unknown, but may parallel the response to other cellular stresses, such as heat shock. after 4-8 h of hypoxia, we found a decrease in total protein synthesis in both cultured bovine aortic and pulmonary arterial ec. sds-page and autoradiographic analysis of [35s]methionine-labeled proteins demonstrated the concomitant induction of a specific set of proteins (mr 34, 36, 47, and 56 kd) in both cell types. these hypoxia-associated proteins (haps) were cell-associated and up-regulated in a time- and oxygen concentration-dependent manner. comparison of these proteins with heat shock proteins (hsps) demonstrated that haps were distinct from hsps. ec maintained chronically in 3% o2 continued to synthesize elevated levels of haps, yet further up-regulated these proteins when exposed to 0% o2. the presence of five times the normal media glucose concentration did not alter the appearance of haps. hypoxia sensitive renal tubular epithelial cells up-regulated no proteins corresponding to haps and were irreversibly damaged within 8 h of exposure to 0% o2. in vitro translation experiments demonstrated that the steady-state level of several mrnas was higher in the anoxic ec than in normoxic ec and encoded for proteins of mr 32, 35, 37, 40, and 48 kd that were different from proteins encoded by hsp mrnas. the induction of haps during acute hypoxia and their continued synthesis in chronic hypoxia suggest that haps may be important in the maintenance of endothelial cell integrity under conditions of decreased ambient oxygen.
surgical epicardial ablation of left ventricular pathway using sling exposure we report our experience with 43 consecutive patients with left free wall pathways operated on since december 1988 using a modified direct epicardial approach through a medial sternotomy, without the adjunct of normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass. the left atrioventricular sulcus is exposed by dislocating the heart cephalad and to the right using a sling made of a large sponge passed around the ventricle through the transverse sinus. while the arterial pressure is monitored, the heart is positioned to obtain adequate exposure without compromising the ventricular function. the left atrioventricular junction is exposed using a direct approach. the epicardium is incised along the ventricular edge and a plane of dissection is identified and opened using blunt dissection over the ventricular wall. the entire left atrioventricular junction can be exposed. after dissection, electrophysiological testing is repeated to assess accessory pathway conduction. epicardial cryoablation was used when accessory pathway conduction was not present (42 patients). transmural cryoablation was used under normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass when accessory pathway conduction persisted after dissection (subendocardial pathway). in all, cardiopulmonary bypass was not used in 41 patients. there was one early relapse that required transmural cryoablation. there were no complications.
extrauterine findings of ectopic pregnancy of transvaginal us: importance of echogenic fluid. transvaginal ultrasound (us) studies of 232 consecutive patients with positive serum pregnancy tests who were considered to be at risk for ectopic pregnancy were prospectively evaluated to determine the significance of various extrauterine findings, including echogenic fluid in the cul-de-sac. all patients were found to have a surgically proved ectopic gestation (group 1, 68 patients [29.3%]), reliable evidence of intrauterine pregnancy at initial transvaginal us (group 2, 83 patients [35.8%]), or no evidence of pregnancy at initial transvaginal us, but subsequent proof of an intrauterine pregnancy (group 3, 81 patients [34.9%]). adnexal findings were demonstrated in 45 (66%) group 1 patients, including a living extrauterine embryo in 10 (15%), an extrauterine gestational sac in 21 (31%), and an adnexal mass in 14 (21%). intraperitoneal fluid was detected in 43 (63%) group 1 patients and in 81 (31%) group 3 patients. echogenic fluid was the only abnormal finding at us in 10 (15%) group 1 patients and added confidence to the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy in many others. echogenic fluid correlated with hemoperitoneum at the time of surgery. the presence of echogenic fluid indicates a high risk for ectopic pregnancy in women referred with this clinical indication.
microscopic wegener's disease: a particular form of wegener's granulomatosis. we describe a case of wegener's granulomatosis in which the disease was manifested with crescentic glomerulonephritis, upper airway ulcerations, and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with consumptive coagulopathy. no granuloma was identified but antibodies to cytoplasmic components of neutrophils were strongly positive with a diffuse pattern. because microscopic vessels were predominantly involved (capillaritis), and granuloma were absent, were refer to this particular form of the disease as "microscopic wegener's disease.".
effect of a leukocyte-platelet removal filter on ischemia induced reperfusion injury. the effect of leukocyte and platelet depletion on reperfusion injury using a leukocyte-platelet removal filter (lrf) in intracoronary thrombolysis is reported. to better define the usefulness of lrf in evaluating the effectiveness of intracoronary thrombolysis with this device, several cardiovascular variables were examined in rabbits during ischemia followed by reperfusion. the rabbits underwent cytoapheresis with lrf (n = 5) and were compared with controls without lrf (n = 5). lrf was composed of a nonwoven polyester fabric (1.8 microns, 4.6 gm). removal of leukocytes and platelets by lrf was 98% for both. a period of 30 min equilibration was allowed before any experimental intervention, at which time the diagonal artery was occluded for 20 min and then reperfused. all arrhythmias were defined and quantified in accordance with the lambeth convention. regional wall thickening was examined by a pulsed doppler dimension system. no significant differences were observed in hemodynamic variables between the two groups; however, rabbits treated with a lrf demonstrated greater regional wall thickening (lrf group: 17 +/- 0.9%, control group: 11 +/- 0.3%, p less than 0.01), as well as significant improvement in the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias (lrf group: 12.5%, control group: 47.2%, p less than 0.01). the data suggest that lrf may help prevent arrhythmias, and preserve left ventricular contraction, during and after intracoronary thrombolysis.
serum amylase in patients with renal insufficiency and renal failure. results vary with regard to the upper limits of serum amylase seen in patients with renal failure, and very little has been reported with patients with renal insufficiency not yet requiring dialysis. to determine the level of serum amylase elevation in renal insufficiency and renal failure, we determined serum amylase values in 128 subjects with creatinine clearances less than 90 ml/min. serum amylase remained in the normal range when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min, and did not become elevated until creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min. the highest serum amylase recorded in the absence of acute pancreatitis was 503 iu/l (normal, less than 128 iu/l). serum lipase and trypsin values paralleled those for serum amylase; values remained normal when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min, and were normal or elevated when creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min. these results indicate that elevations of serum amylase (i.e., amylase greater than 128 but less than 500 iu/l) in asymptomatic patients with impaired renal function are not evident until creatinine clearances fall below 50 ml/min, and probably do not represent acute pancreatitis.
reversible myopathy due to labetalol. a severe, generalized myopathy developed in 2 children treated with labetalol. an 11-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy demonstrated proximal weakness and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels during labetalol therapy. clinical improvement began immediately when labetalol administration was halted; muscle strength was normal within 2 months. muscle biopsies were consistent with rhabdomyolysis.
vena caval flow: assessment with cine mr velocity mapping. the authors used cine magnetic resonance (mr) velocity mapping to study flow in the superior vena cava (svc) and inferior vena cava (ivc) of 13 healthy control subjects and 13 patients with right-sided cardiac disease. in the control subjects, peaks of flow in systole and diastole were observed, and mean svc flow was 35% of the cardiac output. respiratory gating was used in six control subjects to acquire images at end inspiration and end expiration, and although the systolic peak was reduced at end expiration, total flow was unchanged. a reduced systolic peak and retrograde flow in the ivc were observed in patients with tricuspid regurgitation. a reduced diastolic peak was seen in patients with pulmonary hypertension, pericardial constriction, and right ventricular dysplasia, reflecting reduced diastolic compliance of the right ventricle. in the patient with obstruction of the svc, absence of flow was confirmed, and retrograde flow was seen in the azygos vein. the authors believe that cine mr velocity mapping is a reliable method of studying vena caval flow noninvasively and that it has important potential applications for the investigation of disorders of the right side of the heart.
bone sarcomas as second malignant neoplasms following childhood cancer. this study explores the relationship between histologic variants of bone sarcomas and previous therapy in patients in whom an unrelated malignant neoplasm had been diagnosed during childhood. sarcomas of bone were the most common second malignant neoplasm (smn) reported to the late effects study group, a 13-institution consortium consisting of pediatric oncology centers from western europe, canada, and the united states. the authors attempted to relate the histologic subtypes of the 91 bone tumors to clinical factors such as previous therapy and genetic predisposition because morphologic variants have been shown to have biologic significance in other tumors and may have etiologic import. the literature concerning the subtypes of bone tumors, clinical and experimental, is also reviewed. the authors also investigated the effect of several factors on the time interval from the first diagnosis to the smn (i.e., the bone sarcoma). anthracyclines significantly shortened the interval by about 3 years. the primary diagnosis also significantly affected the interval, with leukemia/lymphomas having the shortest interval and retinoblastoma the longest. the authors could not demonstrate any significant relationship between morphologic characteristics of the osteosarcoma and predisposing conditions. however, lesions diagnosed as chondrosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma occurred almost exclusively in patients who had received radiation therapy to the site in which the smn developed.
variations on the temporoparietal fascial flap. an improved understanding of the vascular supply of the layers of the temporal fossa has increased the potential of this region for new and ingenious reconstructive techniques. separate and independently vascularized layers of this region include hair-bearing scalp, glabrous skin, tempororoparietal fascia (and galea aponeurotica), temporalis muscle and fascia, and pericranium. island flaps of glabrous skin and scalp provided esthetically appropriate tissue to cover a variety of defects. the malleable bulk of the subcutaneous fascial layers were combined with skin grafts to restore thin lining, and used as a vascularized bed for cartilage grafts in otherwise unsatisfactory recipient sites. illustrative cases from our 5-year clinical experience are presented to demonstrate various combinations of the temporoparietal fascial pedicle with tissues from the temporal region to reconstruct the eyebrows, eyelids, orbits, cheeks, and lips.
timing of operation for aortic regurgitation: relation to postoperative contractile state. with angiography and pressure measurement, we determined left ventricular volume, wall stress, and systolic performance in 30 patients with aortic regurgitation before and after successful aortic valve replacement. end-systolic wall stress was greatly elevated preoperatively and decreased to normal postoperatively. systolic pump performance assessed as ejection phase indexes was severely depressed preoperatively and improved to normal or near-normal postoperatively in most patients. the ratio of end-systolic wall stress to end-systolic volume index (ess/esvi), an index of myocardial contractility, was greatly decreased before operation. postoperatively, the ratio increased in all patients, becoming normal in 12 of the 13 patients who had a preoperative ess/esvi of 2.9 or greater. however, 15 of 17 patients in whom the ess/esvi ratio was less than 2.9 still had subnormal ratios, which indicates the presence of irreversible contractile dysfunction. stepwise multivariate analysis showed that preoperative ess/esvi was the only independent discriminator of postoperative normalization of the contractile function as assessed by ess/esvi. after aortic valve replacement, myocardial contractile state does not return to normal in a considerable number of patients. it is important to offer aortic valve replacement for aortic regurgitation before the chance for a good functional result is lost. the ess/esvi ratio may be a useful index in determining the timing of operation in patients with aortic regurgitation.
hemiparkinsonism as a complication of an ommaya reservoir. case report. the authors describe the case of a 28-year-old woman who developed the following symptoms in her right hand: a lasting resting tremor, transient focal rigidity, and paresthesia. these deficits occurred following treatment with intrathecal methotrexate via an ommaya reservoir which was placed too deeply, resulting in trauma to the contralateral mesencephalon.
lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death. therefore, the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope. thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes (group 1) and 65 patients had no syncope (group 2). these two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age, gender, incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia, clinical history, frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease. there were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation. there were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium, atrioventricular node, accessory pathway and right ventricle. furthermore, no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia, mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation, and minimum rr interval during atrial fibrillation. in addition, the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2. the occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates. furthermore, the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence.
giant cell versus lymphocytic myocarditis. a comparison of their clinical features and long-term outcomes background. giant cell myocarditis has rarely been diagnosed premortem, and little is known about its natural history. in addition, no comparative studies with lymphocytic myocarditis exist. methods and results. the clinical features, serial change in left ventricular fraction (lvef), and outcomes of all patients with histologically verified myocarditis were retrospectively evaluated. ten patients (22%) were found to have giant cell myocarditis (group 1), whereas the remaining 36 (78%) had lymphocytic myocarditis (group 2). age at presentation, gender distribution, duration of symptoms, initial lvef, and resting hemodynamics did not differ between groups. ventricular tachycardia was detected in 90% of group 1 patients compared with only 25% of group 2 (p = 0.0007). atrioventricular block that required pacemaker insertion was also more common in group 1 (60%) than in group 2 (8.3%) (p = 0.001). left ventricular systolic function declined during follow-up in group 1 patients (lvef, 0.43 +/- 0.07-0.26 +/- 0.05, p = 0.11) but increased in group 2 patients (lvef, 0.33 +/- 0.03-0.41 +/- 0.03, p = 0.02). when the net change between initial and final lvef was assessed, a significant difference was evident (giant cell group, -0.17 +/- 0.06; lymphocytic group, +0.07 +/- 0.03; p = 0.0008). although a greater proportion of patients in group 1 died or required transplantation (seven of 10 versus 11 of 36, p = 0.03), actuarial survival over 4 years was not different for the giant cell group (50%) than for the lymphocytic group (62%). conclusion. giant cell myocarditis was more prevalent than previously recognized and highly associated with both ventricular tachycardia and pacemaker requirement. the likelihood of an adverse event, either cardiovascular mortality or cardiac transplantation, was significantly greater for patients with giant cell myocarditis than for those with lymphocytic myocarditis, perhaps because of the progressive decline in left ventricular systolic function that was observed in those with giant cell myocarditis.
treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin. two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects. one patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids. the fourth patient had a flare-up of his crohn's disease after starting isotretinoin.
doxazosin: a study in a cohort of patients with hypertension in general practice--an interim report. the objective of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of doxazosin in a substantial cohort of hypertensive patients drawn from general practice. a total of 4027 patients entered the study, 1472 of whom (36.6%) were untreated hypertensive patients. patients were not advised to change diet, smoking habit, or life-style during the study. twenty-one percent were cigarette smokers, and concurrent diabetes was present in 2.3%. baseline blood cholesterol exceeded 200 mg/dl (5.2 mmol/l) in 90% and 250 mg/dl (6.5 mmol/l) in 56% of patients. the mean decrease in blood pressure produced by doxazosin was 22/15 mm hg after 10 weeks of therapy; there was a mean decrease in heart rate of 1 beat/min. the mean maintenance dose for all patients was 3.1 mg/day. side effects considered related or possibly related to treatment were reported in 705 patients. treatment was discontinued in 233 patients (5.8%) because of adverse events related or possibly related to treatment with doxazosin. doxazosin produced a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels and a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and the ratio of high-density lipoprotein:total cholesterol. the potential reduction in 10-year coronary heart disease risk (according to the framingham equation) was calculated to be 20.4%.
clinical significance of the "palpable mass" in patients with muscle-infiltrating bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy. between 1976 and 1985, 132 patients with t2/t3/t4a bladder cancer underwent cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy (46 gy: 67 patients; 20 gy: 65 patients). after a median time of 41 months, 62 patients were alive; 51 had died from recurrent bladder cancer and 19 from intercurrent disease without recurrence of their malignancy. distant metastases developed in 40 patients, accompanied in 5 cases by local recurrence. local recurrence was the first sign of relapse in 11 patients. in 3 patients the localisation of the relapse remained unknown. the corrected 5-year survival rate was 60%. t category and a palpable bladder tumour were independent pre-treatment prognostic factors in a cox regression analysis, together with the interval between initial diagnosis and cystectomy. the presence of a palpable tumour before the start of treatment was associated with a particularly poor prognosis in t3/t4a tumours, whereas the survival of patients with non-palpable t3/t4a tumours was similar to that of patients with t2 bladder cancer. another important prognostic factor was post-irradiation stage reduction (no residual muscle infiltration in the cystectomy specimen). significantly more patients with non-palpable bladder tumours experienced post-radiation stage reduction than did those with a palpable tumour. however, the prognostic value of stage reduction was statistically significant only in patients with palpable bladder tumours.
accessory arm--dysraphism or disparity? case report. the case of a 3-month-old infant with an accessory third arm is reported. the extra appendage was attached at the midcervical region and was associated with posterior cervical dysraphism and a cervical cord lipoma. possible theories of origin are examined.
changes in the clearance of total and unbound etoposide in patients with liver dysfunction. the disposition of total and non-protein-bound etoposide was investigated in 21 cancer patients receiving etoposide and cisplatin combination chemotherapy. etoposide plasma concentrations were determined using a specific high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) method, and etoposide plasma protein binding was determined by equilibrium dialysis. the patients had a wide range of renal function (creatinine clearance, 32 to 159 ml/min/m2) and hepatic function (total bilirubin range, 0.3 to 21.5 mg/dl; aspartate aminotransferase [ast] range, 14 to 415 iu/l; serum albumin range, 2.7 to 4.1 g/dl). the mean etoposide total systemic clearance was not different in 15 patients with total bilirubin less than 1.0 mg/dl versus six patients with total bilirubin 1.1 to 21.5 mg/dl (18.7 +/- 5.9 ml/min/m2 v 26.4 +/- 10.7 ml/min/m2; t-test p = .06), with a trend toward higher total clearance in the patients with abnormal bilirubin values. however, the mean clearance of unbound etoposide was significantly lower in patients with increased total bilirubin (220 +/- 90 ml/min/m2 v 135 +/- 61 ml/min/m2; t-test p = .027). the fraction of etoposide unbound (fu) in plasma was significantly higher in patients with increased bilirubin (9% +/- 3% v 27% +/- 15%; t-test p = .002), explaining the trend toward higher total clearance in these patients. etoposide clearance (total or unbound) in the 14 patients with measurable hepatic metastases was not different from the clearance in the seven patients without hepatic metastases. this study provides an explanation for why patients with increased bilirubin do not have lower total systemic clearance of etoposide, and indicates that such patients have a higher exposure to unbound etoposide. the results of ongoing pharmacodynamic studies of total and unbound etoposide in patients with increased bilirubin will determine the clinical relevance of altered etoposide protein binding.
optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia. continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure. the purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention. optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients. factors common to series with excellent results, such as patient selection and operative technique, are examined, and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease, which continue to plague even the best surgical series, are discussed.
pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy: an overview. pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (pppd) was reintroduced 12 years ago. since that time, over 400 patients have undergone pppd with approximately 41 per cent having chronic pancreatitis and 54 per cent having pancreatic and other periampullary malignancies. reported 5-year survivals in this latter group have been comparable to those achieved by the classic whipple procedure. the postoperative mortality rate in 339 reported patients has been 3.8 per cent. postoperative morbidity, including delayed gastric emptying, has been similar to that of the classic whipple operation. however, pppd has been associated with fewer late problems with dumping, diarrhoea, delayed gastric emptying (8.6 per cent), and marginal ulceration (3.6 per cent). moreover, most patients undergoing pppd have been able to return to their preoperative and preillness weight. the additional advantage of decreased operative time makes pppd an attractive alternative to the classic pancreatoduodenectomy.
localization of stereotactic targets by microrecordings of thalamic somatosensory evoked potentials. to improve the localization of stereotactic targets, somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) were recorded from the thalamus and subthalamic area using a specially designed semimicroelectrode in 61 patients and a conventional "macroelectrode" in 17 patients. by means of the semimicroelectrode, median nerve stimulation evoked two distinct seps, consisting of a diphasic wave with a huge positivity restricted to the nucleus ventrocaudalis (vc) and a triphasic wave of lower amplitude with a major negativity in the ventral part of the nucleus ventrointermedius (vim) and nucleus ventrooralis posterior (vop) as well as the subthalamic lemniscal pathway. the vim-vc junction could thus be clearly delineated by an abrupt transition of seps from one type to the other with a precision of 1 mm. the parvicellular part of the vc (vcpc), situated in its basal region, was distinguishable from the vc proper by a significant reduction of the positivity elicited by stimulation of the median nerve and by a rapid growth of a diphasic seps to stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve. in the other thalamic nuclei, stimulation of the median nerve elicited triphasic seps of a very small amplitude, suggesting a volume conduction current from the lemniscal pathway. with the macroelectrode, the positivity in the vc was sensitive to electrode manipulation and the thalamic nuclei could not be distinctly outlined. sep monitoring using the semimicroelectrode significantly improved the precision of target localization, which allowed minimizing of the volume of the therapeutic lesion without losing surgical effectiveness, while avoiding complications associated with increased penetration of the coagulating electrode. it is suggested that recording serial thalamic seps with the semimicroelectrode is a practical method to refine stereotactic targets in the thalamus.
airways inflammation in nocturnal asthma. nocturnal asthma is a frequent problem, but the mechanism is unclear. we investigated the possibility that airways inflammation occurred during the night. bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was analyzed in asthmatic patients with (n = 7) and without nocturnal asthma (n = 7) at 1600 and 0400 h. the nocturnal asthma group had an increase in the total leukocyte count (24.0 +/- 7.0 to 41.1 +/- 9.9 x 10(4) cells/ml, p less than 0.05), neutrophils (1.1 +/- 0.6 to 3.7 +/- 1.5 x 10(4) cells/ml, p less than 0.05), and eosinophils (0.5 +/- 0.1 to 1.7 +/- 0.7 x 10(4) cells/ml, p less than 0.05) from 1600 to 0400 h. cellular components for the non-nocturnal asthma group did not change. between groups, the 1600-h cells were similar. at 0400 h the nocturnal asthma group had significantly higher total leukocyte, neutrophil, eosinophil, lymphocyte, and epithelial cell counts. for all subjects, the overnight fall in peak expiratory flow rates was correlated to the change in neutrophils (r = 0.54, p less than 0.05) and eosinophils (r = 0.77, p less than 0.05). we conclude that the nocturnal worsening of asthma has an associated cellular inflammatory response that is not seen in patients without overnight decrements in lung function. this inflammatory response together with epithelial damage may be important factors in the etiology of nocturnal asthma.
gallstone pancreatitis. gallstone pancreatitis is caused by transient obstruction of the ampulla of vater by a migrating gallstone. intraglandular activation of pancreatic enzymes occurs (by an unclear mechanism), and their entry into the circulation causes most of the local and systemic events of pancreatitis. the diagnosis is based on history and physical examination, an elevation of serum amylase above 1000 iu/l, and ultrasound and ct scans. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be used in less certain cases to confirm the presence of common bile duct stones. because of the absence of an agent that can abort progression of the disease, therapy should consist of adequate resuscitation, nutritional support, and careful monitoring to detect early complications. in patients with mild pancreatitis, surgery usually can be performed within 48 or 72 hours of admission or as soon as symptoms and amylase levels return to normal. for patients with severe disease, endoscopic sphincterotomy is emerging as the therapeutic modality of choice. elective treatment of the associated biliary disease should be performed during the same hospitalization after the acute phase of the disease has subsided.
aerobic and anaerobic bacteriology of wounds and cutaneous abscesses. the aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic characteristics of 584 wounds and 676 skin or soft-tissue abscesses were studied and correlated with the infection site. in wounds, aerobic or facultative bacteria only were present in 223 specimens (38%), anaerobes only in 177 specimens (30%), and mixed flora in 184 specimens (32%). in total there were 1470 isolates, 558 aerobic and 912 anaerobic, an average of 2.5 isolates per wound (1.6 anaerobic and 0.9 aerobic isolates). in abscesses, aerobic or facultative bacteria were recovered in 177 specimens (26%), anaerobes only in 243 specimens (36%), and mixed flora in 256 specimens (38%). in total there were 1702 isolates, 602 aerobic and 1100 anaerobic, an average of 2.5 isolates per abscess. the highest rates of anaerobes in wounds were in the inguinal, buttocks, and trunk areas and in abscesses in the perirectal, external genitalia, neck, and inguinal areas. the predominant aerobic organisms were staphylococcus aureus (363 isolates), group a streptococci (98 isolates), and escherichia coli (97 isolates). the predominant anaerobic organisms were bacteroides species (986 isolates), peptostreptococcus species (559 isolates), clostridium species (153 isolates), and fusobacterium species (109 isolates). the predominance of certain isolates in certain anatomical sites was correlated with their distribution in the normal flora adjacent to the infected site. these data highlight the polymicrobial nature of wounds and cutaneous abscesses.
autosomal dominant neovascular inflammatory vitreoretinopathy. twenty-eight of 61 members of a six-generation family are affected by an autosomal dominant eye disease which has not been described previously. affected patients are asymptomatic in early adulthood, but have vitreous cells and the selective loss of the b-wave on the electroretinogram. later, peripheral retinal scarring and pigmentation, peripheral arteriolar closure, and neovascularization of the peripheral retina at the ora serrata or occasionally neovascularization of the optic disc develop. cystoid macular edema, vitreous hemorrhage, tractional retinal detachment, and neovascular glaucoma can cause profound visual loss. vitrectomy reduces traction on the retina and allows for retinal reattachment. the role of argon laser photocoagulation or cryopexy in reducing the neovascular complications remains uncertain.
multifocal, synchronous inverted papillomas involving the ureter. inverted papillomas involving the upper urinary tract remain a rarely diagnosed phenomenon. a case of bilateral ureteral inverted papillomas is presented. the treatment and diagnosis of this lesion remain a challenge.
management of aortobronchial fistula with graft replacement and omentopexy. massive hemoptysis due to a recurrent aortobronchial fistula after repair of a thoracic aortic aneurysm developed in a 64-year-old woman. the infected aortic tissue was resected and replaced with an in situ dacron graft covered by omentum. the patient is alive and well 15 months later.
herniation of the antral membrane through an extraction site. report of a case. a case of herniation of the antral membrane through a recent extraction site is presented. the lesion was initially diagnosed as a tumor by the referring dentist. oroantral fistulas are not an uncommon finding after dental extractions. it is rare, however, to see herniation of the antral membrane with large polyps extending through the fistula into the oral cavity. a search of the literature revealed only two other such cases. surgical removal of the polyps and closure of the oroantral fistula by means of a buccal sliding flap technique is discussed.
lyme borreliosis in the severe combined immunodeficiency (scid) mouse manifests predominantly in the joints, heart, and liver. the authors describe the histopathologic evolution of lyme disease in severe combined immunodeficiency (scid) and normal c.b-17 and c57bl/6 mice inoculated with borrelia burgdorferi. starting on day 7 after inoculation, all scid mice infected subcutaneously in the tail with a low-passage european tick isolate of b. burgdorferi had clinical evidence of arthritis characterized by reddening and swelling of tibiotarsal joints. later on, other joints, ie, metatarsal and ulnacarpal joints were also affected. the infection of scid mice resulted in a persistent spirochetemia and the development of a multisystem disease with chronic progressive inflammation of joints, heart, and liver. major histopathologic alterations included 1) severe joint lesions, characterized by the presence of hyperplastic inflamed synovial lining cells associated with the erosion and destruction of cartilage and/or bone; 2) pancarditis with infiltrations of mononuclear cells in the endocardium, myocardium, and pericardium; and 3) hepatitis with mononuclear cell infiltrations confined to the portal field and central vein, granulomatous reactions, and eventually the development of liver fibrosis. in addition, smaller more confined lesions were found in kidneys, lung, brain, and striated muscle. the inflammatory infiltrates in the various organs were associated mostly with mac-1+ cells, largely monocytes and macrophages, as well as some polymorphonuclear leukocytes, but not b and t lymphocytes. infective spirochetes could be readily isolated from blood and joints and were found at the site of inoculum and the myocardium. in contrast, subcutaneous inoculation of normal c.b-17 or c57bl/6 mice with spirochetes in general did not result in clinical signs of arthritis. only 10% to 20% of the c57bl/6 mice, but none of the c.b-17 mice, showed clinical evidence of oligoarthritis, which appeared not before day 36 after inoculation. in general, the infection of normal mice resulted in minimal lesions in various organs, and no spirochetes could be visualized or reisolated from their tissues. the data demonstrate that lyme borreliosis may develop in mice in the absence of detectable specific b and t cells and thus suggest an immunologic control of the disease in this species. the scid mouse model therefore can be used to define the components of the immune system responsible for the suppression and/or the progression of the disease.
pelvic floor descent in women: dynamic evaluation with fast mr imaging and cinematic display. the authors present a new method for assessing pelvic prolapse with dynamic fast magnetic resonance (mr) imaging. twenty-six women with signs and symptoms suggesting pelvic prolapse and 16 control subjects were studied with a series of fast (6-12-second) mr images. sagittal and coronal images were obtained with graded increase in voluntary pelvic strain, allowing for dynamic display and quantification of the pelvic prolapse process. the distance from the pubococcygeal line was used as an internal reference for measurement of descent in the maximal strain position. with use of control results for normal limit values, prolapse involving the anterior pelvic compartment (cystocele), the middle compartment (vaginal prolapse, uterine prolapse, and enterocele), and the posterior compartment (rectocele) was easily demonstrated. significant differences between control subjects and patients with prolapse were seen at maximal strain but not in the relaxed state. quantification of the pelvic descent process with use of fast mr imaging may be of value in surgical planning and postsurgical follow-up.
induction of inflammatory cell infiltration and necrosis in normal mouse skin by the combined treatment of tumor necrosis factor and lithium chloride. previously we reported that lithium chloride (licl) potentiates tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. here, using a murine normal skin model, it is shown that a subcutaneous injection of tnf plus licl induces acute dermal and subcutaneous inflammation and necrosis. histology showed a marked initial dermal and subcutaneous neutrophil infiltrate by approximately 2 hours, followed by a predominantly mononuclear infiltrate by 24 hours, which remained present for several days. tumor necrosis factor or licl alone induced negligible inflammation, disappearing after 6 hours; furthermore there was never necrosis or ulceration of the overlying skin in case of single-agent application. in vitro studies showed that the combination of tnf and licl, but not either agent alone, was directly cytotoxic to fibroblastic cells of murine skin. no inflammatory infiltration was visible in tumors treated intratumorally or perilesionally with tnf plus licl, although the latter treatment resulted in a perilesional leukocyte infiltration. furthermore the combination of tnf and licl had no effect on macrophage cytotoxicity to l929 tumors.
expert testimony based on decision analysis: a malpractice case report. objective: expert testimony in malpractice cases is often subjective and biased. decision-analytic techniques might provide an objective basis for such testimony. design: case report. this article reports the case of a patient with chest pain that resulted in a malpractice suit alleging a delay in diagnosis of coronary artery disease. setting: the case occurred in a private practice; the expert witnesses and the decision analysis originated from a university teaching hospital. methods: a decision tree and threshold analysis were used to define the thresholds of disease probability at which either testing or treatment should be implemented. the expert testimony of two witnesses that exercise stress testing was the standard of care was compared with the results of the decision analysis. main results: decision analysis supported the view that cardiac catheterization would have been the more appropriate test. conclusions: techniques of decision analysis provide a structured and quantitative basis for empirical judgment and may help to minimize current problems with expert testimony.
cardiac echinococcosis with fatal intracerebral embolism. a previously well 7 year old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness and fitting. no evidence of trauma or space occupying lesion was identified. death occurred the next day due to cerebral infarction caused by embolised fragments from a ruptured left ventricular hydatid cyst that was found at necropsy.
propafenone treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias. a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial in patients tolerating oral therapy. objective: to test the hypothesis that propafenone, administered orally, prevents symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias. design: a 6-month, open-label, dose-finding phase followed by a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover phase, with each treatment period lasting up to 60 days. setting: an outpatient clinic. patients: thirty-three patients with either paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (n = 16) or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (n = 17) were enrolled. their arrhythmias were documented by electrocardiogram before enrollment. twenty-three patients (14 with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and 9 with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation) were randomized and the data obtained from these patients were used in the efficacy analysis. intervention: propafenone (300 mg three times daily in 19 patients, 300 mg twice daily in 3 patients, and 150 mg twice daily in 1 patient) and matching placebo tablets were administered in a randomized sequence. measurements: symptomatic arrhythmia was documented by telephone transmission of the electrocardiogram. main results: the time to first recurrence was prolonged for the overall group of 23 patients while they received propafenone (p = 0.004). the recurrence rate of arrhythmia during treatment with propafenone was estimated to be approximately one fifth of the recurrence rate during treatment with placebo. conclusions: propafenone is effective in reducing symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias.
human papillomavirus type 16 associated with oral squamous carcinoma in a cardiac transplant recipient. human papillomavirus type 16 (hpv 16) has been associated with a variety of squamous carcinomas, particularly those involving the anogenital tract. the authors report the development of an oropharyngeal carcinoma in a 43-year-old man approximately 20 months after cardiac transplantation while he was on a maintenance regimen of cyclosporine a and prednisone. the carcinoma was resistant to treatment, and he died of complications related to metastatic disease 3 years posttransplantation. molecular biologic studies using nonisotopic-labeled viral dna probes were done. in situ hybridization demonstrated the presence of hpv 16 dna in the tumor cells. dna dot blot analysis confirmed the presence of multiple copies of hpv 16 dna within the tumor cells and their absence from adjacent normal-appearing tissue. southern blot analysis suggested that the hpv 16 dna was integrated into the tumor cell genome. with increasing recognition of the carcinogenicity of hpv type 16 infection, a role for this virus in the development of squamous cell malignancies in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients is likely to be noted with increasing frequency.
scintigraphic evaluation of aggressive fibromatosis. despite its benign microscopic appearance, aggressive fibromatosis has potential to recur and infiltrate neighboring tissues. therefore, it is necessary to determine the exact extent before therapy. in the present study, 11 cases of aggressive fibromatosis were examined scintigraphically using [99mtc(v)]dimercaptosuccinic acid (11 cases) and 67ga-citrate (7 cases). technetium-99m-(v)-dimercaptosuccinic acid demonstrated all lesions, while 67ga-citrate detected 57% of the cases.
failure of hancock pericardial xenografts: is prophylactic bioprosthetic replacement justified? the incidence of major valve-related complications was evaluated in a series of patients in whom the hancock pericardial xenograft was used for aortic (avr; n = 84), mitral (mvr; n = 17) and mitral-aortic (mavr; n = 13) valve replacement. at 7 years actuarial survival is 66% +/- 8% after avr, 64% +/- 13% after mvr, and 41% +/- 15% after mavr, whereas actuarial freedom from valve-related death is 79% +/- 7% after avr, 78% +/- 13% after mvr, and 81% +/- 12% after mavr. actuarial freedom from thromboemboli and anticoagulant-related hemorrhage at 7 years is 93% +/- 4% and 98% +/- 2% after avr and 83% +/- 10% and 88% +/- 11% after mvr; no such complications occurred after mavr. structural valve deterioration determined at reoperation, at autopsy, or by clinical investigation was observed in 34 patients with avr (10.0 +/- 0.2%/patient-year), in 10 with mvr (10.6 +/- 3.3%/patient-year), and in 9 with mavr (16.6 +/- 5.5%/patient-year). after avr, 19 patients underwent reoperation and 2 died before reoperation; 4 patients with mvr underwent reoperation, and 7 patients with mavr underwent reoperation and 1 died before reoperation. seventy-eight percent of the current survivors (13 patients with avr, 7 with mvr, and 1 with mavr) have clinical evidence of valve failure. at 7 years actuarial freedom from structural deterioration of the hancock pericardial xenograft is 25% +/- 7% after avr, 29% +/- 14% after mvr, and 0% after mavr.
the association of hydrocephalus with intramedullary spinal cord tumors: a series of 25 patients. 171 patients with intramedullary spinal cord tumors were operated on, of which 25 patients (15%), mostly children, developed symptomatic hydrocephalus. twenty patients (12%) had malignant tumors, with 13 of the 20 cases (63%) complicated by increased intracranial pressure and ventriculomegaly. of the remaining 151 patients with benign tumors (89%), only 12 (8%) developed symptomatic hydrocephalus. in an effort to understand the relationship between hydrocephalus and intramedullary spinal cord tumor, the authors analyze the level and histology of the neoplasm, as well as its association with spinal cysts. a review of the neurosurgical literature reveals that 34 similar cases of hydrocephalus associated with intramedullary spinal cord tumors have been reported to date. the authors note that the presence of hydrocephalus in patients with malignant intramedullary astrocytomas is associated with a shorter rate of survival than in those patients with high-grade lesions but without hydrocephalus, apparently due to rapid tumor progression. the ventriculomegaly seen with benign spinal cord gliomas has no statistically significant effect upon long-term prognosis.
botulinum-induced changes in monkey eyelid muscle. comparison with changes seen in extraocular muscle. botulin type a was injected into the eyelids of adult monkeys, and structural alterations in the orbicularis oculi muscle were evaluated after survival times of 7 to 84 days. the most profound change seen at both the light- and electron-microscopic levels was nonselective atrophy of virtually all muscle fibers. moreover, the botulin-induced blockade of neuromuscular transmission was nonspecific in producing alterations in the three orbicularis fiber types. muscle structural changes appeared to be reversible, with no apparent long-term consequences. while sprouting of preterminal axons was noted in botulin-treated muscle, formation of collateral sprouts did not appear to be widespread. these changes contrast with the fiber type-specific, long-term alterations induced in extraocular muscle by botulin treatment. however, this differential response may be attributed to the very clear differences in fiber type composition and motor control mechanisms between eyelid and extraocular muscle groups. the efficacy of botulin treatments for strabismus and focal dystonia may then be directly related to both the anatomic fiber type composition and the functional properties of motor control systems of the injected muscle.
computed tomography for evaluation of puerperal infections. pelvic computed tomography was used to evaluate 74 women with persistent puerperal infection. there was at least one abnormal roentgenographic finding in 57, and these are correlated with clinical and surgical findings. in 16 women, a palpable pelvic mass was seen on tomography, however, masses not appreciated clinically were visualized in another 29 women, and in five, a clinically palpable mass was not visualized by tomography. in 12 women who had a normal pelvic examination, septic pelvic thrombophlebitis was diagnosed by tomography. over-all, there was poor correlation with roentgenographic findings and uterine incisional necrosis and dehiscence. we conclude that pelvic tomography is useful to evaluate some women with persistent puerperal infection, but that these studies must be correlated with clinical findings.
impact of active immunisation against enteritis necroticans in papua new guinea. enteritis necroticans, known locally as pigbel, has been a major cause of illness and death among children in the highlands of papua new guinea. after a successful trial of active immunisation against the beta toxin of the causative organism, clostridium perfringens type c, immunisation of children was begun in 1980. the effects of the immunisation programme on pigbel admissions in 3 of the 5 major highland hospitals were assessed. in each of the centres studied the proportion of admissions due to enteritis necroticans dropped significantly after immunisation was introduced (p less than 0.001) and hospital admissions for pigbel in 1984-86, when immunisation was well established, were less than one fifth of previous figures.
pathophysiology, monitoring, and management of the ventilator-dependent patient: considerations for drug therapy, emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis. adult respiratory distress syndrome (ards), or noncardiac pulmonary edema, is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy, to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology, and to prevent subsequent complications. supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen, positive end-expiratory pressure, and, often, mechanical ventilation. the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards. complications from ards include stress ulcers, which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced. antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis, but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care. because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious, choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions. no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia.
interleukin-5 is a human basophilopoietin: induction of histamine content and basophilic differentiation of hl-60 cells and of peripheral blood basophil-eosinophil progenitors. cytokine-induced differentiation of basophils may contribute to various inflammatory processes. we examined the effects of recombinant human interleukin-5 (il-5) and other human cytokines in vitro on myeloid colony formation in methylcellulose and on alkaline passaged hl-60 basophilic cell differentiation. myeloid colonies (cfu-c) at day 14, formed in the presence of either il-3, il-5, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), or g-csf included peripheral blood-derived progenitors of the eosinophil/basophil lineage. il-5 stimulated a greater proportion of basophil-containing, histamine-positive, eosinophil-type colonies compared with gm-csf, il-3, or g-csf. il-5 also stimulated dose-dependent increases in histamine content of alkaline-passaged, butyrate cotreated hl-60 cells. the concentration of il-5 required for half-maximal induction of hl-60 histamine content was similar within twofold to that needed for half-maximal stimulation of the multifactor dependent tf-1 erythroleukemic cell line. neutralizing rat monoclonal antibodies to human il-5 were developed and used to demonstrate that each of these il-5 bioactivities could be specifically blocked. we conclude that in addition to its previously described eosinophil differentiation activity, il-5 may be considered a basophilopoietin.
penetrating iliac vascular injuries: recent experience with 233 consecutive patients. during a recent 11-year period, 233 consecutive patients with 358 penetrating iliac vascular injuries were treated at our institution. injuries of the common and external iliac arteries were most often repaired with lateral suture (31%) although several other techniques were also employed. lateral suture and ligation were used with nearly equal frequency in the management of venous injuries. the hospital mortality rate for the series was 28%, and 56/66 deaths (85%) were due to exsanguination or shock. one patient, initially treated with an end-to-end anastomosis of the iliac artery, died a year after discharge from a ruptured false aneurysm. two patients treated with lateral suture of venous injuries died of pulmonary embolism. arterial complications occurred in 15% of patients with arterial injuries and three patients required amputation. no graft infections occurred in 16 patients treated with ptfe interpositions, including four with associated colorectal injuries. venous complications occurred in 12% of patients with venous injuries, and most were noted in those treated with ligation. four patients treated by venous ligation developed chronic venous insufficiency. the prevention of death from exsanguination is the greatest problem in the management of patients with iliac vascular injuries. although some late deaths and many complications may be related to the technique of vascular repair, circumstances often prohibit alternative methods. despite two deaths from pulmonary embolism, insufficient data exist to condemn lateral suture of venous injuries.
respiratory epithelium in a cystic choristoma of the limbus. a female newborn had a cystic, whitish gray mass at the inferotemporal limbus of the left eye. at age 3 weeks, the newborn underwent excision of the tumor, corneal patch grafting, and superior sector optical iridectomy. histopathologic and electron microscopic examination of the excised tissue revealed a choristoma consisting of cysts lined with respiratory epithelium. to our knowledge, respiratory epithelium in a limbal choristoma has not been previously reported.
effects of carotenoids in cellular and animal systems. it has been suggested that carotenoid pigments may function as chemopreventive agents for reducing the risk of cancer in humans. part of this suggestion rests on epidemiological evidence, and part rests on work done in cellular and animal systems. in this article, the experimental evidence for carotenoid inhibition of mutagenicity, malignant transformation, tumor formation, and immunoenhancement is reviewed. although a mechanism for these effects cannot yet be identified, it is clear that the overwhelming evidence in these systems would indicate that carotenoids exert an important influence in modulating the actions of carcinogens.
prognostic factors in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with transcatheter arterial embolization and arterial infusion. from january 1986 to december 1988, a prospective trial of transcatheter arterial treatment was carried out for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). two hundred seventy-five patients were included. okuda's staging system was employed. patients with stage i and ii hcc were treated by transcatheter arterial embolization (tae) with a gelatin sponge containing an anti-cancer agent (protocol 1a); a gelatin sponge and iodized oil mixed with an anti-cancer agent (protocol 1b); or iodized oil mixed with an anti-cancer agent (protocol 2). patients with stage iii hcc were treated with iodized oil with anti-cancer agent (protocol 2). as an exception, patients with an unsuccessful superselective catheterization into the proper hepatic artery by seldinger technique or obstruction of the main trunk of the portal vein were treated with percutaneous transcatheter arterial infusion into the common hepatic artery regardless of stage (protocol 3). tumor type and extension, area of tumor involvement, portal vein involvement, method of treatment, and presence of ascites and icterus were found to be the significant factors for an initial response to therapy. treatment method was the most important factor. respective survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 70.9% and 55.3% for protocol 1a; 62.3% and 43.8% for protocol 1b; 37.8% and 18.3% for protocol 2; and 16.5% and 0% for protocol 3. many factors proved to significantly influenced prognosis; however, tumor type had the most important prognostic significance followed by afp value, ascites, treatment protocol, and area of tumor involvement.
acute pain relief. pain is a multidimensional psychophysiologic phenomenon. systematic multidimensional assessment is an essential first component of an effective plan to relieve the pain. nurses are key to effective pain management because of the close, 24-hour-a-day relationship with the hospitalized patient. it is the nurse who is most critical to the adequate assessment of pain, to the implementation of the treatment plan, and to the evaluation of efficacy. nurses should continue to develop a better knowledge base about pain and pain therapies and assessment skills, be assertive in obtaining effective treatment for their patients, and perceive themselves as responsible for pain relief.
surgical aspects of malaria. the spread of drug-resistant organisms and increased international travel makes malaria a disorder of ever-increasing importance. this report reviews those aspects of malaria of surgical relevance. the importance of the spleen in host defence against malaria and other infections makes splenic preservation desirable whenever possible after rupture of the spleen. tropical splenomegaly is caused by an abnormal immune response to malaria and is best managed medically. careful selection of blood donors is essential to prevent transfusion malaria, and routine antimalarial prophylaxis is indicated for blood recipients in many endemic areas. the risk of postoperative malaria may justify chemoprophylaxis in certain patients.
loss of expression of blood group antigen h is associated with cellular invasion and spread of oral squamous cell carcinomas. membrane-bound carbohydrates may influence the metastatic behavior of cancer cells. forty-two squamous cell carcinomas (scc) of the buccal and maxillary alveolar mucosa were studied retrospectively using a monoclonal antibody (be2) that reacts with blood group h (type 2 chain) structure. h-antigen staining within the entire tumor did not correlate with the stage of the tumor, i.e., spread of the tumors. however, loss of staining within the most invasive sites of the tumors correlated significantly with the stage of tumor development and histologic grade of malignancy. these findings support the view that features relating to the cells of deeper parts of the carcinomas are very important for the clinical behavior of the tumors, and that loss of h-antigen expression is related to the stage of tumor and invasion of carcinoma cells.
complement activation is a secondary rather than a causative factor in rabbit pulmonary artery ischemia/reperfusion injury. we have previously demonstrated that reperfusion of a rabbit lung in vivo after 24 h of unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion results in edema, transient leukopenia, and intravascular leukocyte aggregation. we hypothesized that complement was activated by reperfusion and that this in turn contributed to lung injury. in the preliminary phase of the study, we found that ischemia followed by reperfusion resulted in a drop in c3 to 15 +/- 10% (mean +/- sem) of the prereperfusion value as compared with no change in a group of control animals that had undergone an identical thoracotomy but without pulmonary artery occlusion and reperfusion (p less than 0.05). we then studied three groups of animals to determine if complement depletion with cobra venom factor (cvf) prior to ischemia and reperfusion would prevent the injury. rabbits treated with cvf but without occlusion and reperfusion did not develop significant lung edema, with left and right lung wet/dry ratios of 5.32 +/- 0.11 and 5.26 +/- 0.12, respectively. for rabbits that were not treated with cvf but underwent ischemia and reperfusion, the comparable numbers were 6.15 +/- 0.36 and 5.19 +/- 0.32 (p less than 0.05 for right versus left). for cvf-treated rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion, the right/left difference persisted (6.77 +/- 0.48 versus 5.35 +/- 0.14, p less than 0.01). immunocytochemistry documented c3 deposition in non-cvf rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion but not in cvf-treated rabbits. we conclude that ischemia/reperfusion of the lung results in complement activation, but it is not a complement-dependent injury.
an epidemiologic study of abuse of analgesic drugs. effects of phenacetin and salicylate on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity (1968 to 1987) background. phenacetin abuse is known to produce kidney disease; salicylate use is supposed to prevent cardiovascular disease. we conducted a prospective, longitudinal epidemiologic study to examine the effects of these drugs on cause-specific mortality and on cardiovascular morbidity. methods. in 1968 we evaluated a study group of 623 healthy women 30 to 49 years old who had evidence of a regular intake of phenacetin, as measured by urinary excretion of its metabolites, and a matched control group of 621 women. salicylate excretion was also measured. all subjects were examined over a period of 20 years. results. life-table analyses of mortality during the 20 years, with adjustment for the year of birth, cigarette smoking, and length of follow-up, revealed significant differences between the groups in overall mortality (study group vs. control group, 74 vs. 27 deaths; relative risk, 2.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 3.3), deaths due to urologic or renal disease (relative risk, 16.1; 95 percent confidence interval, 3.9 to 66.1), deaths due to cancer (relative risk, 1.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.3), and deaths due to cardiovascular disease (relative risk, 2.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 5.5). the relative risk of cardiovascular disease (fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, heart failure, or stroke) was 1.8, and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.3 to 2.6. the odds ratio for the incidence of hypertension was 1.6, and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.2 to 2.1. the effects of phenacetin on morbidity and mortality, with adjustment for base-line salicylate excretion, were similar. in contrast, salicylate use had no effect on either mortality or morbidity. conclusions. regular use of analgesic drugs containing phenacetin is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and mortality and morbidity due to cardiovascular disease, as well as an increased risk of mortality due to cancer and urologic or renal disease. the use of salicylates carries no such risk.
inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver. inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver is an extremely rare entity. because of its unusual clinical presentation and confusing histologic picture, a diagnosis of malignancy is frequently made. thus the surgeon is closely involved with the case and extensive procedures are not uncommon. however, this lesion is benign and will even regress spontaneously, making radical surgical procedures contraindicated. the difficulty lies in establishing an accurate diagnosis and the histologic pitfalls of this particular process. conservative therapy can then be applied, avoiding surgical morbidity.
sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with normal left ventricular mass an active, healthy, and symptom free 16 year old boy with a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy died suddenly while walking home from school. necropsy showed absence of left ventricular hypertrophy (that is, normal heart weight), though the characteristic histological abnormalities of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, such as cardiac muscle cell disorganisation and abnormal intramural coronary arteries, were present. it is likely that this patient had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and died before left ventricular hypertrophy developed.
behavioral and psychosocial cancer research. building on the past, preparing for the future. this report identifies five general conclusions that emerged from the second workshop on methodology in behavioral and psychosocial cancer research. these conclusions address diverse topics, including a focus on areas other than methodology; an emphasis on the transfer of technology and knowledge to applied settings; a recognition of the role of basic behavioral research in answering clinical questions; the need to recognize and strengthen ties between the field of behavioral and psychosocial oncology and the basic behavioral and social science fields from which it emerged; and the importance of additional research on minorities and other special populations. it is suggested that meeting the challenges posed in each of these five areas is critical to continued progress in the field.
transient myocardial ischaemia after acute myocardial infarction. the prevalence and characteristics of transient myocardial ischaemia were studied in 203 patients with recent acute myocardial infarction by both early (6.4 days) and late (38 days) ambulatory monitoring of the st segment. transient st segment depression was much commoner during late (32% patients) than early (14%) monitoring. most transient ischaemia (greater than 85% episodes) was silent and 80% of patients had only silent episodes. during late monitoring painful st depression was accompanied by greater st depression and tended to occur at a higher heart rate. late transient ischaemia showed a diurnal distribution, occurred at a higher initial heart rate, and was more often accompanied by a further increase in heart rate than early ischaemia. thus in the first 2 months after myocardial infarction transient ischaemia became increasingly common and more closely associated with increased myocardial oxygen demand. because transient ischaemic episodes during early and late ambulatory monitoring have dissimilar characteristics they may also have different pathophysiologies and prognostic implications.
temporal bone: three-dimensional ct. part ii. pathologic alterations. three-dimensional (3d) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic (ct) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities. the 3d ct reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional ct examination. while no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3d ct images, they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site. three-dimensional ct surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change.
clinical and manometric aspects of diffuse esophageal spasm in a cohort of subjects evaluated for dysphagia and/or chest pain. manometric criteria for diffuse esophageal spasm have recently been restated. in this study, a cohort of 358 subjects was evaluated in a gastrointestinal motility laboratory for dysphagia and/or chest pain. applying the recently proposed criteria of richter and castell, 18 subjects (5%) were diagnosed as having des. dysphagia was the major complaint (89%), while 44% of patients complained of chest pain and 33% of both symptoms. all patients shared more than 30% simultaneous contractions after wet swallows interspersed with normal peristaltic sequences. associated manometric findings were repetitive (greater than 3 peaks) contractions (67%), high-amplitude contractions (33%), spontaneous activity (22%), prolonged duration (11%), and lower esophageal sphincter abnormalities (5%). radiology disclosed significant abnormalities in only 27% of des patients.
clinical evaluation of interferons in malignant melanoma. the evaluation of interferons in the treatment of malignant melanoma has been mainly in the treatment of advanced disease using interferons as the sole agent or in combination with other agents. studies of the value of interferons as adjuvant therapy in high-risk primary melanoma patients are necessary, but no results have been published to date. human interferon alpha produces low response rates as a sole agent, but in combination with cimetidine, a 30% response rate has been achieved. recombinant alpha interferons give responses of 15%-20% in advanced melanomas, and combination with cimetidine does not enhance the response rate. recombinant alpha interferons have been used in combination with other interferons, cimetidine, monoclonal antibodies, and cytotoxics, with either no or small improvement in response rates. dtic with recombinant interferon alpha-2a has been shown to produce objective response rates of 26%, with low toxicity and maintenance of quality of life. a randomized trial with dtic as the sole agent, compared with combination treatment, is being conducted to determine the significance of this finding.
neurogenic inflammation of the rat trachea: fate of neutrophils that adhere to venules. the goal of this study was to determine whether neutrophils that adhere to the vascular endothelium in association with neurogenic inflammation in the respiratory tract migrate out of the blood vessels or whether they detach and reenter the circulation. we also sought to determine whether the fate of the neutrophils is influenced by neutral endopeptidase (nep), an enzyme that degrades the tachykinins that produce neurogenic inflammation. neutrophils in the tracheal mucosa of anesthetized pathogen-free rats were examined 5 min or 4 h after neurogenic inflammation was produced by an injection of capsaicin (100 or 200 micrograms/kg iv). in whole mounts of these tracheae stained histochemically for myeloperoxidase, adherent intravascular neutrophils had a spherical or teardrop (regular) shape and migrating neutrophils had a polarized amoeboid (irregular) shape. the number of regular neutrophils in the tracheae was increased at both times, but the increase at 4 h was only half that present at 5 min. the reduction between 5 min and 4 h was not offset by an appreciable increase in the number of irregular neutrophils, unless nep was inhibited by phosphoramidon. we interpret these results as indicating that the rapid adherence of neutrophils to the vascular endothelium after an injection of capsaicin is followed by a gradual reentry of the neutrophils into the circulation and comparatively little neutrophil migration. however, when the effect of the stimulus is increased and/or prolonged by inhibition of nep, some of the adherent neutrophils migrate out of the vessels. thus the activity of nep can regulate both the magnitude of the neutrophil adherence and the fate of the adherent cells.
intestinal metaplasia is age related in barrett's esophagus. the correlation among cellular characteristics of barrett's esophagus, patient age, and malignant neoplasm is not well documented. this study, which describes a population of 66 patients with barrett's esophagus spanning 1 to 80 years of age, analyzes the cellular constituents of their lesional tissues by endoscopic biopsy and histochemical and morphometric studies. goblet cell metaplasia, identified in 50% (n = 14) of pediatric patients, increased significantly to involve 84% (n = 32) of biopsy specimens from adult patients with barrett's esophagus. this increase was exponential by linear regression analysis (r2 = .64) between the ages of 5 and 29 years. pediatric patients usually had 25 or less goblet cells per square millimeter of barrett mucosa with no identifiable epithelial dysplasia or cancer; nissen fundoplication lessened esophageal inflammation, but the barrett mucosa persisted. goblet cell metaplasia maintained a plateau (mean of 57 cells per square millimeter of barrett mucosa) between the ages of 41 and 80 years. dysplasia, in situ carcinoma, or invasive carcinoma was found in patients with barrett's esophagus who were aged 41 years or older. this study demonstrates persistence of barrett mucosa, increased incidence of goblet cell metaplasia, and predictable changes in goblet cell number with advancing patient age. the relationship between barrett mucosa and malignant neoplasm remains uncertain, but the goblet cell may serve as a marker of disease chronicity in which setting neoplasia evolves.
gastric outlet obstruction caused by traumatic pseudoaneurysm of superior mesenteric artery. traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the superior mesenteric artery (sma) are extremely rare. we describe two cases of posttraumatic proximal sma pseudoaneurysms with symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction. repair was accomplished by aorta-sma bypass with saphenous vein. injuries to the proximal sma are easily missed at laparotomy, especially if intestinal ischemia or hematomas are absent. recognition and repair are stressed to avoid the complications associated with pseudoaneurysm formation.
changes in myocardial ischemic threshold during daily activities. this study assesses the variations in myocardial ischemic threshold (heart rate at the onset of ischemia) during daily activities in patients with ischemic episodes on holter monitoring. eighty patients with known coronary artery disease, positive treadmill stress test results and greater than or equal to 2 ischemic episodes during a 24-hour period of holter monitoring were studied. the lowest and the highest ischemic thresholds were determined for each patient. the mean lowest ischemic threshold was 85 beats/min, and the mean highest ischemic threshold was 109 beats/min. the highest ischemic threshold was identical to ischemic threshold values noted during exercise. of the 895 ischemic episodes, 654 (74%) were preceded by a moderate (greater than 10%) increase in heart rate. the variability of ischemic threshold (difference in percentage between the highest and lowest ischemic thresholds) increased with the number of ischemic episodes (range 2 to 60%). however, in different patients with a similar number of ischemic episodes, different variability was observed. these differences in ischemic thresholds are probably indirect indicators of the vasomotor activity of the coronary arteries in different patients.
metastatic ciliary body carcinoid tumor. a 50-year-old man with a history of systemic carcinoid had decreased right eye vision and a darkly pigmented cilio-choroidal mass. results of ultrasonographic and fluorescein angiographic examinations were consistent with a malignant melanoma. fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the lesion identified it as a carcinoid metastasis. the patient refused both radiation and enucleation; complete excision with a cyclochoroidectomy was performed. histopathologic examination showed a carcinoid neoplasm covered by marked hyperplasia of the retinal pigment epithelium that produced the pigmented appearance of the lesion.
cholesterol and coronary heart disease. future directions. the importance of high serum cholesterol levels as a risk factor for coronary heart disease and the benefit of lowering cholesterol levels for reducing risk are being increasingly accepted. a broad consensus to this effect has led to the establishment of the national cholesterol education program. although the available evidence fully justifies this program, its practical application to the american public has generated a series of new questions that must be explored. for example, it can be questioned whether reduction in coronary risk through lowering cholesterol levels extends to both sexes and all age groups. for people with high cholesterol levels, dietary modification is undoubtedly the first step of management, but the fraction of people responding adequately to dietary change remains to be determined. finally, indications for drug therapy and choice of drugs need further exploration, particularly in the area of cost vs benefit. thus, continuing research must be carried out in parallel with clinical and public health application of cholesterol education.
efficacy of methylphenidate among mentally retarded children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. twelve children with iq scores of 50 to 74 (educable mental retardation) who met rigorous diagnostic criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder participated in a double-blind crossover study of the efficacy of two doses of methylphenidate compared with placebo. dependent measures included behavioral ratings, classroom work output, laboratory measures of attention and learning, and direct observations of social behavior. improvement with medication on the conners hyperactivity index was observed in 75% of subjects. significant increases in work output, on-task behavior, and attentional skills were associated with methylphenidate. however, gains in measures of attention were not associated with improvement in learning, as measured by a paired associate learning task. additionally, no significant increases in appropriate social interactions during free play were associated with methylphenidate. the results suggest that mentally retarded children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder respond to methylphenidate at similar rates and in similar domains to that of the nonretarded population.
drug-induced colonic pseudo-obstruction. report of a case. colonic pseudo-obstruction may have many possible causes. some of these are well described and pose no diagnostic problems. drug-related colonic pseudo-obstruction remains underreported, but is of importance in modern society where drugs are endemically abused. this case highlights the importance of drugs in altering colonic motility and emphasizes the nonsurgical management of this condition.
continuous 5-fluorouracil infusion and alpha interferon in advanced cancers: a report of initial treatment results. twenty-four patients with advanced metastatic cancer were treated with continuous intravenous 5-fluorouracil infusion 200-300 mg/m2/day and alpha interferon 3 million units subcutaneously 3 times per week. the average duration of treatment was 87 days (range 22-204 days). 5-fluorouracil could be infused 66% of the planned time on treatment, and patients received an average of 60% of the planned interferon injections. objective tumor responses were seen in 6 of 17 previously untreated patients (35%). twenty-two of the 24 patients (92%) experienced toxicity (greater than or equal to ecog grade ii) that required treatment interruption and subsequent dose reduction predominantly for the following reasons: mucositis (67%), hand-foot syndrome (21%), and leukopenia (25%). the incidence of treatment limiting toxicity is higher than previously observed with 5-fluorouracil infusion alone. this suggests true augmentation of 5-fluorouracil effect by interferon. 5-fluorouracil infusion and alpha interferon is a potentially useful combination that needs further evaluation in future phase ii and phase iii trials.
effects of hypovolemia and transfusion on tumor growth in mca-tumor-bearing rats. pretransplant blood transfusion has been shown to significantly affect the outcome of renal transplantation. evidence regarding the association of blood transfusions with growth or recurrence of solid tumors is still conflicting both in clinical and in experimental studies, although diminished survival has been suggested in several studies. to determine the influence of blood transfusions and hypovolemia, as separate or combined factors, on tumor growth, we evaluated the weight of a subcutaneously implanted sarcoma (methylcholanthrene-induced) in 35 rats. after reaching 1% tumor burden (day 0), the animals were separated into two groups: hypovolemia (shed volume, 15 ml/kg) or normovolemia. these groups were further divided according to resuscitation: oo (no resuscitation), bl (receiving syngeneic blood stored in citrate phosphate dextrose for 4 days, 15 ml/kg), sl (receiving 0.9% sodium chloride, 45 ml/kg). tumor dimensions were determined daily by external measurement, and tumor weight was calculated. hypovolemia exerted a significant influence on tumor growth, independent of the resuscitation modality. the rats that received blood transfusions showed an increased rate of tumor growth, compared to the animals that received saline solution or no treatment. no interaction was noted between the effects produced by hypovolemia and blood transfusion. we conclude that the hypovolemic event enhanced tumor growth independently of the resuscitation, and transfusion of citrate phosphate dextrose-blood stored for 4 days did influence tumor growth in this model. we suggest that the effect of blood transfusion in patients with cancer has to be redefined to account for the influence of possible hypovolemic events.
susceptibility to invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease and the immunoglobulin g2m(n) allotype. there has been considerable controversy about the role of the immunoglobulin g2m(n) allotype and risk of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) disease. this allotype was studied in a large cohort of finnish children (178) with invasive hib disease. the g2m(n) allotype distribution was similar to that in the normal white finnish population. no increased risk of hib disease could be associated with the n-/n- genotype [i.e., lack of g2m(n) allotype]. thus, the g2m(n) allotype does not seem to be a major determinant of susceptibility to hib infection among white populations in industrialized countries.
interleukin-2 immunotherapy in children. immunotherapy with interleukin (il)-2 possesses great potential in the treatment of immune-mediated diseases and cancers. however, only a few reports on a small number of children have appeared in the literature. from march 1988 to march 1989, 11 children and adolescents were treated with il-2. they included 1 patient with hepatocellular carcinoma, 1 with hepatoblastoma, 6 with childhood atopic dermatitis, and 3 with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. the dosages ranged from 10,000 to 50,000 u/kg every 8 hours by intravenous drip. the following side effects were observed: anorexia, fever, and chillness (100%), general malaise (82%), irritability (64%), diarrhea (100%), nausea and vomiting (73%), weight gain (82%), edema (82%), abdominal distension (73%), oliguria (82%), cough (91%), dyspnea (27%), pleural effusion (40%), hypotension (82%), skin eruption (82%), oral ulcer (18%), enlarged liver (73%) liver function abnormalities (82%), renal function impairment (36%), electrolyte imbalance (73%), anemia (91%), thrombocytopenia (54%), leukopenia (18%), and eosinophilia (73%). immunologically, numbers of natural killer cells were increased and natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer cell activities were augmented after il-2 treatment. there was a tendency for serum levels of il-2 and receptor il-2 to decrease, especially in patients with atopic eczema. ten patients (91%) completed one course (9 to 12 days) of therapy, and the remaining patient interrupted the treatment because of intolerable adverse effects. clinically, complete remission for 3 months was obtained in 1 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patient, transient improvement (2 to 6 weeks) in all atopic dermatitis patients, minor response in the hepatoblastoma patient, and no response in the patient with hepatocellular carcinoma.
cd11c (leu-m5) expression characterizes a b-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with features of both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hairy cell leukemia. chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) and hairy cell leukemia (hcl) are two common chronic lymphoproliferative disorders, each having characteristic clinical, morphologic, and immunologic features. phenotypically, cd5 reactivity in cll and cd11c (leu-m5) reactivity in hcl have characterized these two leukemias among b-cell disorders. in this study, we report 14 cases of a novel chronic lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by lymphocytosis and cd11c expression, but morphologically similar to cll. the patients' ages ranged from 46 to 81 years (median 62). eleven had palpable splenomegaly, five with markedly enlarged spleens; only one patient had generalized lymphadenopathy. the white blood cell count ranged from 5.2 to 131.0 x 10(9)/l (median 20.8). the morphologic diagnosis in all cases was cll, with the cells usually having abundant cytoplasm. no morphologic features, of hairy cells were evident; tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase cytochemistry was negative in all cases. bone marrow biopsies were available in 8 of 14. four showed focal nodular infiltrates and two had diffuse infiltrates similar to cll; two showed only minimal interstitial involvement. all cases expressed multiple b-cell markers, and 12 of 14 had monoclonal surface immunoglobulin. the leukemic cells of all cases strongly expressed cd11c, while cd5 was expressed in 7 of 14; only 1 of the 14 cases expressed the lymph node homing receptor, leu-8. this unique group of leukemias appears to represent the malignant transformation of lymphocytes arising from a stage of lymphocyte differentiation between that found in typical cases of cll and that of hcl. cd11c is known to have an important function in cellular adhesion and may be important in determining the pattern of lymphocyte tissue distribution found in this group of patients.
comparison of left ventricular ejection fraction by magnetic resonance imaging and radionuclide ventriculography in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. to assess the validity of gated magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in determining left ventricular (lv) ejection fraction (ef), mri (spin echo, multislice-multiphase technique on the short-axis plane) was compared with equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography in 32 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. all patients underwent mri and radionuclide ventriculography, performed consecutively on the same day (mean time interval between the 2 examinations: 40 minutes). comparison with lvef showed a high correlation (y = 0.79 x +3.51, r = 0.91; p less than 0.001). mean difference between radionuclide ventriculography and mri data was 1.7, with the 95% confidence interval 0.71 to 2.68: mri slightly underestimated lvef. mri interobserver and intrapatient variability (assessed in 15 of 32 patients) showed a high correlation (r = 0.91, r = 0.98). in conclusion, data suggest that mri, using the short-axis approach and the multislice-multiphase technique, is an accurate, noninvasive, highly reproducible method of evaluating lvef in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
ocular defects in infants of extremely low birth weight and low gestational age. the eyes of 49 babies who weighed less than 1,000 g at birth or who were born at or before 28 weeks gestation were examined at the age of 4 years. twenty-one children were normal. the remaining 29 children (59%) had ocular abnormalities which ranged from mild amblyopia to blindness from retinopathy of prematurity. the need to examine children at risk is stressed.
coronary vascular remodeling and myocardial fibrosis in the rat with renovascular hypertension. response to captopril. progressive myocardial fibrosis, including the accumulation of collagen within the adventitia of intramyocardial coronary arteries, is seen in the hypertrophied rat myocardium secondary to renovascular hypertension (rht) and has been held responsible for alterations in myocardial diastolic stiffness. this study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that this presumptive angiotensin-aldosterone mediated fibrosis and its functional consequences could be favorably altered by an antihypertensive oral dose (50 mg/kg/day) of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor captopril. three groups were studied: control; untreated rht for 8 weeks; treated rht, with captopril started 48 h before banding and continued for 8 weeks. interstitial collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area (morphometry), the fibrillar nature of collagen (picrosirius polarization), and the end diastolic stress-strain relation of the intact left ventricle were examined in each group. in comparison to untreated animals with rht, we found that captopril, begun prior to banding, attenuated interstitial and perivascular fibrosis and prevented hypertrophy and the rise in diastolic stiffness 8 weeks later. thus, an adverse accumulation of collagen in the interstitium and around intramyocardial coronary arteries, and its functional consequences in the rat with rht, can be prevented by captopril. other ace inhibitors may have similar salutary effects, but remain to be evaluated. the pathogenetic origin of myocardial fibrosis in rht requires further investigation, but appears to be related to the angiotensin-aldosterone system.
tolerance to organic nitrates: evidence, mechanisms, clinical relevance, and strategies for prevention. objective: to review the available information about nitrate tolerance, its potential mechanisms, clinical implications, and strategies for prevention. data identification: a survey of the national library of medicine medline database and bibliographies of the reviewed articles. study selection and data extraction: studies were selected from the english language literature with an emphasis on recent studies and, when available, randomized placebo-controlled studies. old studies were selected on the basis of their historical value and originality. a total of 134 retrieved articles were considered relevant and were reviewed in depth. results: the available information about the experimental as well as the clinical evidence for tolerance to organic nitrates has been summarized. in addition, information related to potential mechanisms, clinical implications, and possible methods for prevention have been reviewed. conclusions: evidence indicates that prolonged in-vitro exposure to organic nitrates, continuous intravenous or topical administration of nitrates, and frequent in-vivo oral dosing result in the rapid development of tolerance to the peripheral as well as to the coronary vasodilatory effects of the drugs. this phenomenon leads to the rapid attenuation of the hemodynamic and anti-ischemic effects of nitrates in patients with ischemic heart disease or congestive heart failure, or both. tolerance development seems to be dose- and time-dependent, and its main mechanism seems to be a depletion of sulfhydryl groups at the vascular cell. although the repletion of sulfhydryl groups with the use of sulfhydryl-containing drugs may help to prevent tolerance, the efficacy and safety of this approach requires further evaluation. intermittent therapy allowing a sufficiently long, daily nitrate-washout interval seems to be the most effective and the most safe strategy currently available for the prevention of nitrate tolerance.
pilot study of nicardipine for acute ischemic stroke. the author performed a pilot study of nicardipine (nc), a ca(+)+ channel blocker, to study its dosing, toxicity, and possible efficacy for hemispheric cerebral infarction within 12 hours (mean 6.9 hr) of onset to determine the advisability of proceeding with a multi-centered controlled trial. nc was administered iv (3 to 7 mg/hr) x 72 hours by titrating dose to mean arterial blood pressure (mabp not less than 10% of baseline), then orally x 30 days. forty-three patients have been entered; mean age 63 (range 34-89), 25 male and 18 female. only 3 had ct evidence of infarct on entry. results have shown improvement in a 100-point (pt) graded exam (40 pts at entry, 68 pts at 3 months). of 20 patients completing 3 months' evaluation, 17 improved and none worsened. sixteen out of 20 were at home and 8 had minimal or no impairment. mean barthel's index was 72. mean maximal serum nc level was 75 ng/ml. mabp decreased from 103 (entry) to 83 (72 hours). a larger controlled study is warranted to determine the efficacy of nc for acute cerebral infarct.
transesophageal doppler echocardiography evaluation of coronary blood flow velocity in baseline conditions and during dipyridamole-induced coronary vasodilation transesophageal echocardiography allows the evaluation of proximal coronary artery anatomy and coronary blood flow velocity (cbfv). to assess the potential of transesophageal echocardiography in evaluating cbfv and its variations induced by coronary-active drugs, we studied 15 patients by high-quality pulsed wave doppler recordings of cbfv. in these patients, transesophageal doppler evaluation of cbfv was performed before, 2 minutes after cessation of dipyridamole infusion (0.56 mg/kg in 4 minutes), and 2 minutes after aminophylline infusion (240 mg injected 4 minutes after cessation of dipyridamole infusion). the following cbfv parameters were evaluated at each of the three steps of the study protocol: maximal and mean diastolic velocities and maximal and mean systolic velocities. furthermore, the following indexes of coronary flow reserve were evaluated: the ratio between maximal diastolic velocity recorded after and before dipyridamole administration and the ratio between mean diastolic velocity recorded after and before dipyridamole administration. nine of the 15 patients had a normal left anterior descending coronary artery (group a), whereas the remaining six had significant (less than or equal to 75%) stenosis (group b). in group a patients, all cbfv parameters increased significantly during dipyridamole infusion and returned to near baseline values after aminophylline infusion. in group b patients, on the other hand, none of the cbfv parameters increased after dipyridamole infusion. dipyridamole/baseline maximal diastolic velocity and mean diastolic velocity ratios were, respectively, 3.22 +/- 0.96 and 3.04 +/- 0.88 in group a and 1.46 +/- 0.45 (p less than 0.01 versus group a) and 1.48 +/- 0.49 (p less than 0.01 versus group a) in group b patients.
reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion: poor correlation with blood gaba levels. previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy. we report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy. plasma gaba and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy. although the clinical syndrome and the eeg improved markedly after the ileostomy, the plasma gaba levels remained markedly elevated. preoperative and postoperative gaba levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml, respectively (nl = 100-180 pmol/ml). our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy. however, our results conflict with the hypothesis that gaba itself is the key mediator of the syndrome.
importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases. areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth. in extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved. the importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated. colonic anastomoses were performed in hooded-lister rats with and without omentectomy. animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour. with intraluminal injection, tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent (omental remnant). with intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent (in omental remnant) following omentectomy. in this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support 'seeded' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by, or be dependent on, the proximity of the omentum.
vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension: a case report. a case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported. preoperatively, the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope. after total removal of the vagal tumor, her systemic blood pressure returned to normal.
a comparison of neurological, metabolic, structural, and genetic evaluations in persons at risk for huntington's disease. we compared four diagnostic data sets for the assessment of individuals at risk for huntington's disease. fifty-four chorea-free persons were evaluated by neurological examination, positron emission tomography measurement of glucose metabolism, radiographic computerized tomographic measurement of caudate size, and genetic testing at the polymorphic dna loci d4s10, d4s43, and d4s125. twelve (22%) persons had abnormal caudate metabolism, 6 (11%) had subtle abnormalities of motor control, and 7 (13%) had computed tomographic evidence of caudate atrophy, compared with an expected gene frequency of 34% for this population. in 20 persons with unambiguous genetic test results or the subsequent phenotypic expression of huntington's disease (chorea), there was a greater sensitivity of the positron emission tomographic measurement of caudate metabolism (75%) relative to computed tomography (33%) or the clinical examination (17%) for the determination of a subpopulation of probable huntington's disease gene carriers. hypometabolism of the putamen and globus pallidus, and hypermetabolism of the precentral gyrus were also associated with a high probability of carrying the huntington's disease gene. the findings support the hypothesis that abnormalities of cerebral metabolism precede clinical or structural (computed tomographic) abnormalities in gene-positive individuals at risk for huntington's disease.
the perineal artificial sphincter for acquired incontinence--a cut and dried solution? sixteen males with stress incontinence due to sphincter damage were investigated with videourodynamic studies after implantation of a perineal artificial urinary sphincter. twelve patients were rendered dry; 4 remained incontinent, all of whom were shown by cystometry to have incontinence from detrusor instability. of these, 2 also had stress incontinence proven by videourography. detrusor instability was present in 9 patients before implantation; the instability worsened considerably in 2 patients and new instability was shown in another 2 patients. the limitations of the artificial urinary sphincter and the implications of detrusor instability in patients with an artificial sphincter are discussed. the artificial urinary sphincter is an extremely successful device for the treatment of acquired stress incontinence.
response of angiographically normal and atherosclerotic left anterior descending coronary arteries to acetylcholine. acetylcholine-induced constriction of human coronary arteries in vivo is commonly attributed to endothelial dysfunction. to examine the effects of 2 other important determinants of vascular responses--namely, agonist concentration and the segment of circulation under study--the diameters of proximal, middle and distal segments of the left anterior descending artery (lad) and coronary sinus oxygen saturation were measured in 10 patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries (group 1) and in 7 patients with coronary atherosclerosis (group 2) after intracoronary acetylcholine was infused at concentrations from 10(-7)m to between 10(-4)m and 10(-2)m. in group 1, acetylcholine caused minor (less than or equal to 6%) but progressive dilatation of the lad up to 10(-4)m, but constriction, particularly of the distal segments and tertiary branches, occurred at higher concentrations. over the same concentration range, coronary sinus oxygen saturation rose progressively from a basal level of 36 +/- 3% to a maximum of 72 +/- 3% in the absence of changes in heart rate and blood pressure, suggesting marked progressive dilatation of resistance vessels. concentrations greater than or equal to 10(-3)m caused intense constriction of distal epicardial vessels and, in some cases, anginal pain and objective signs of ischemia. conversely, in group 2, acetylcholine (infused only up to 10(-4)m for ethical reasons) failed to cause significant changes in lad diameter. these data suggest that the local acetylcholine concentration and coronary vascular segment under study may determine the observed response to at least an equivalent extent as does the presence or absence of coronary atherosclerosis, raising the question of whether a constrictor response to intracoronary acetylcholine reliably indicates the presence of coronary atherosclerosis.
hirudin interruption of heparin-resistant arterial thrombus formation in baboons. to determine the role of thrombin in high blood flow, platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes we measured the relative antithrombotic and antihemostatic effects in baboons of hirudin, a highly potent and specific antithrombin, and compared the effects of heparin, an antithrombin iii-dependent inhibitor of thrombin. thrombus formation was determined in vivo using three relevant models (homologous endarterectomized aorta, collagen-coated tubing, and dacron vascular graft) by measuring: (1) platelet deposition, using gamma camera imaging of 111in-platelets; (2) fibrin deposition, as assessed by the incorporation of circulating 125i-fibrinogen; and (3) occlusion. the continuous intravenous infusion of 1, 5, and 20 nmol/kg per minute of recombinant hirudin (desulfatohirudin) maintained constant plasma levels of 0.16 +/- 0.03, 0.79 +/- 0.44, and 3.3 +/- 0.77 mumol/ml, respectively. hirudin interrupted platelet and fibrin deposition in a dose-dependent manner that was profound at the highest dose for all three thrombogenic surfaces and significant at the lowest dose for thrombus formation on endarterectomized aorta. thrombotic occlusion was prevented by all doses studied. in contrast, heparin did not inhibit either platelet or fibrin deposition when administered at a dose that maximally prolonged clotting times (100 u/kg) (p greater than .1), and only intermediate effects were produced at 10-fold that dose (1,000 u/kg). moreover, heparin did not prevent occlusion of the test segments. hirudin inhibited platelet hemostatic function in concert with its antithrombotic effects (bleeding times were prolonged by the intermediate and higher doses). by comparison, intravenous heparin failed to affect the bleeding time at the 100 u/kg dose (p greater than .5), and only minimally prolonged the bleeding time at the 1,000 u/kg dose (p less than .05). we conclude that platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes are thrombin-mediated and that the biologic antithrombin hirudin produces a potent, dose-dependent inhibition of arterial thrombus formation that greatly exceeds the minimal antithrombotic effects produced by heparin.
fluorescence assays to monitor membrane fusion: potential application in biliary lipid secretion and vesicle interactions. membrane fusion constitutes an essential, intermediate step in numerous cell biological processes, occurring for example during endocytosis, membrane recycling and exocytosis. also less desirable events such as the infection of cells by animal viruses are mediated by membrane fusion during which the viral envelope merges with a cellular membrane, causing the expulsion of the viral nucleocapsid into the cytoplasm of the cell as an initial step in virus replication. much of our current knowledge concerning the mechanism of membrane fusion has been derived from studies using simple artificial membranes, such as liposomes or phospholipid vesicles, as model systems. a most essential feature of these studies has been the development of membrane fusion assays that register in a sensitive and continuous fashion the mixing of membranes or the aqueous volumes initially enclosed by these membranes. not only do these assays allow one to readily detect and quantify fusion, but they also provide the possibility to relate the kinetics of fusion to the rate by which certain molecular changes in membranes take place. obviously, this insight is of relevance for understanding the mechanism of membrane fusion. the principles and applications of some representative assays that rely on the use of fluorescence spectroscopy will be discussed. assays that monitor membrane mixing are commonly based on the detection of changes in resonance energy transfer efficiency or the relief of fluorescence self-quenching of appropriate fluorescent lipid analogs. contents mixing assays rely on either the formation of a (aqueous-soluble) fluorescent complex or quenching of a fluorophore, encapsulated in one vesicle population, by a suitable quencher, entrapped in a second population.
angiotropic intravascular large-cell lymphoma (malignant angioendotheliomatosis): report of a case and review of the literature. we present a case of angiotropic large-cell lymphoma and review the literature in order to define the neurologic features of this rare disorder. this is the first report of gadolinium-dtpa imaging in angiotropic large-cell lymphoma that demonstrates infarcts of multiple ages, as well as striking meningeal enhancement. angiotropic large-cell lymphoma should be suspected in patients with clinical evidence of small and large cerebral vessel disease and diagnosis requires skin, liver, renal, meningeal, or brain biopsy. single modality treatment, using either radiation therapy or steroids, has been ineffective, and new findings of a lymphomatous origin of this neoplasm suggest that combination chemotherapy may be indicated.
long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis. we reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution. these 27 patients represent 4% of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry. reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 (65.5%) cases. comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did (84% at 5 years, 78.6% at 10 years) and did not (90.3% at 5 years, 83.6% at 10 years) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference (p = 0.48) when measured from the time of primary operation. the perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation (3.4% and 0%) were acceptable. we conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity (3.4%), surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy.
brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. we compared brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic performance in 20 neurologically asymptomatic patients suffering from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (mean age 41 [range 18-49] years) and 20 age-matched controls (mean age 38 [range 28-49] years). patients exhibited a significantly higher rate of cerebral infarcts (20% versus 0%, p less than 0.05) and cortical (50% versus 5%, p less than 0.01) and ventricular (55% versus 15%, p less than 0.02) atrophy than controls. accordingly, semiquantitative volumetric measurements yielded a significantly increased ventricular-to-intracranial cavity ratio in the patients (6.2 +/- 2.9% versus 4.1 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.01). this ratio and the cortical atrophy ratings correlated positively with disease duration (r = 0.63 and 0.54, p less than 0.05). cognitive test performance was significantly worse in patients than in controls and was most impaired in those patients with morphologic cerebral abnormalities.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan use. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989. we describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations, pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function, fatigue, rashes, edema and weight gain, weight loss, muscle weakness and shortness of breath. laboratory findings included eosinophilia (often marked), normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values. on biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes, histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution. invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20%. capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25% of cases. two patients improved with no therapy. ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone. three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died. the relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed.
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients. seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations; 34 (48.6%) aspirated. patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes, abnormal cough, abnormal gag, and dysphonia. however, patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough, an abnormal gag reflex, or both. the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information (ie, presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs).
the lateral approach for operative release of post-traumatic contracture of the elbow. a lateral approach was used to release a post-traumatic contracture of the elbow in seven patients, and the results were evaluated an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively. extension improved from an average flexion contracture of 45 degrees preoperatively to one of 12 degrees postoperatively, and the average point of maximum flexion increased from 116 degrees preoperatively to 129 degrees postoperatively. the average arc of motion increased 46 degrees. all patients began using a continuous-passive-motion device immediately after the operation. there were no problems with wound-healing or formation of heterotopic bone.
identification of three related human gro genes encoding cytokine functions. the product of the human gro gene is a cytokine with inflammatory and growth-regulatory properties; gro is also called mgsa for melanoma growth-stimulatory activity. we have identified two additional genes, gro beta and gro gamma, that share 90% and 86% identity at the deduced amino acid level with the original gro alpha isolate. one amino acid substitution of proline in gro alpha by leucine in gro beta and gro gamma leads to a large predicted change in protein conformation. significant differences also exist in the 3' untranslated region, including different numbers of attta repeats associated with mrna instability. a 122-base-pair region in the 3' region is conserved among the three gro genes, and a part of it is also conserved in the chinese hamster genome, suggesting a role in regulation. dna hybridization with oligonucleotide probes and partial sequence analysis of the genomic clones confirm that the three forms are derived from related but different genes. only one chromosomal locus has been identified, at 4q21, by using a gro alpha cdna clone that hybridized to all three genes. expression studies reveal tissue-specific regulation as well as regulation by specific inducing agents, including interleukin 1, tumor necrosis factor, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, and lipopolysaccharide.
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries, neural structures, and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome. hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981. the clinical manifestations, now known as the toxic oil syndrome, include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs. many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness. because scleroderma involves the heart, in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries, neural structures, and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome. dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma. atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus. small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration. this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery. every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves, ganglia, and the coronary chemoreceptor. both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system. based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid, we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome, particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids. if this is so, it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals.
plasma norepinephrine and dihydroxyphenylglycol in essential hypertension. the aim of the present study was to examine whether essential hypertension is associated with altered plasma concentrations of dihydroxyphenylglycol, the principal presynaptic metabolite of norepinephrine. forearm venous plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol and norepinephrine were determined at rest and during graded orthostasis in 47 normotensive control subjects and 58 outpatients with essential hypertension. there was no group difference in age. at supine rest as well as during sitting and standing, hypertensive subjects had plasma norepinephrine concentrations similar to those in normotensive control subjects, but plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol concentrations were higher than those in normotensive control subjects. both groups showed a linear relation between plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol (ordinate) and plasma norepinephrine (abscissa). the resulting regression line was steeper (p less than 0.02) and its ordinate intercept higher (p less than 0.01) in hypertensive than in control subjects. eleven normotensive and 14 hypertensive subjects were also tested 3 hours after desipramine (1.5 mg/kg orally) was administered to inhibit neuronal norepinephrine reuptake. the drug did not alter plasma norepinephrine, but did reduce plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol and did abolish plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol responses to upright posture in both groups of subjects. the mean plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol concentration observed in the presence of desipramine again was higher in the hypertensive than in the control group (p less than 0.01) and closely agreed, in both groups, with the dihydroxyphenylglycol concentration given by the ordinate intercept of the dihydroxyphenylglycol versus norepinephrine regression line in the absence of desipramine.
duplex scanning of normal or minimally diseased carotid arteries: correlation with arteriography and clinical outcome. this study evaluated the role of duplex scanning in the management of patients with normal or minimally diseases carotid arteries. carotid duplex scans were interpreted according to previously established criteria and considered normal when pulsed doppler spectral waveforms showed laminar flow or only minor flow disturbances. normal flow patterns were noted by duplex scanning in 100 carotid bifurcations of 72 patients who also underwent carotid arteriography. neurologic symptoms (amaurosis fugax, transient ischemic attack, or stroke) were present in relation to 23 arteries and absent in relation to 77 arteries. on the 23 symptomatic sides arteriography was interpreted as normal in eight, 1% to 15% stenosis in 14, and 16% to 40% stenosis in one. for the 77 asymptomatic sides, arteriography showed normal vessels in 15, 1% to 15% stenosis in 43, and 16% to 40% stenosis in 19. one symptomatic patient was treated by carotid endarterectomy for an irregular 1% to 15% stenosis. none of the asymptomatic lesions were in the range of 80% to 99% stenosis, which would justify endarterectomy for asymptomatic disease. clinical follow-up for a mean interval of 28 months on 20 of the 22 symptomatic patients not undergoing surgery revealed no strokes and transient recurrent symptoms in two patients. assuming that the single operation in this study was indicated, duplex scanning correctly identified lesions not requiring carotid endarterectomy in 96% (22/23) of the symptomatic patients. a normal duplex scan also predicted a benign clinical outcome without operation. duplex scanning can reliably exclude surgically treatable carotid bifurcation lesions in asymptomatic patients, and endarterectomy is rarely indicated in symptomatic patients with normal duplex scan results. this study supports a nonoperative therapeutic approach for most patients with neurologic symptoms and a normal carotid duplex scan on the appropriate side.
transsynaptic degeneration in the superficial dorsal horn after sciatic nerve injury: effects of a chronic constriction injury, transection, and strychnine. the lumbar and cervical spinal dorsal horns of adult rats with a chronic (8 days) constriction injury of the sciatic nerve on one side (and a sham operation on the other) were examined for signs of transsynaptic degeneration. the incidence of neurons with signs of degeneration (pyknosis and hyperchromatosis; 'dark neurons') was significantly increased in the lumbar dorsal horn on both sides. the ipsilateral lumbar increase was significantly greater than the contralateral increase. there was no increase in the incidence of dark neurons in the cervical dorsal horns of the same rats. the distribution of lumbar dark neurons was similar bilaterally. the majority of the dark neurons were found in the sciatic nerve's territory in laminae i-ii. a second group of rats received the same surgery but in addition received a series of 7 daily subconvulsive doses of strychnine. dark neurons were again found bilaterally (with ipsilateral predominance) in the sciatic nerve's territory in lumbar laminae i-ii, but the incidence was significantly greater than that found in the group that did not receive strychnine. the same result was obtained in a third group of strychnine-treated rats when the sham operation was omitted. thus the appearance of contralateral dark neurons is not dependent on unintentional nerve damage created by the sham procedure. an additional group of rats was sacrificed 8 days after receiving a unilateral sciatic nerve transection, a contralateral sham operation, and the 7 daily strychnine injections. there was no increase in the incidence of dark neurons in any of these rats.
correlations of acoustic tissue typing of malignant melanoma and histopathologic features as a predictor of death. forty-six eyes with uveal melanoma were scanned with a computerized diagnostic ultrasound system before enucleation, and light microscope sections were obtained. tumors were characterized by ultrasonically measured dimensions and power spectrum analysis, which provided information not available in conventional a- or b-scan ultrasonography. histopathologic features, including cell clustering pattern, cell type, pigmentation, vascularity, and necrosis, were quantified. statistically significant correlations were found between parameters derived from the power spectrum and histologic characteristics. patients were followed up for up to ten years with 14 deaths occurring because of metastases. using a cox relative risk model with histopathologic data, a risk model comprising pigmentation and cell type (p less than .0001) was obtained. using ultrasonic characteristics, a model comprising tumor volume and scatterer concentration (p = .0062) was obtained. the results suggest that ultrasonic tissue characterization and three-dimensional biometry may provide improved in vivo prognostic indicators for uveal melanoma.
muscle maximal o2 uptake at constant o2 delivery with and without co in the blood. in the present study we investigated the effects of carboxyhemoglobinemia (hbco) on muscle maximal o2 uptake (vo2max) during hypoxia. o2 uptake (vo2) was measured in isolated in situ canine gastrocnemius (n = 12) working maximally (isometric twitch contractions at 5 hz for 3 min). the muscles were pump perfused at identical blood flow, arterial po2 (pao2) and total hemoglobin concentration [( hb]) with blood containing either 1% (control) or 30% hbco. in both conditions pao2 was set at 30 torr, which produced the same arterial o2 contents, and muscle blood flow was set at 120 ml.100 g-1.min-1, so that o2 delivery in both conditions was the same. to minimize co diffusion into the tissues, perfusion with hbco-containing blood was limited to the time of the contraction period. vo2max was 8.8 +/- 0.6 (se) ml.min-1.100 g-1 (n = 12) with hypoxemia alone and was reduced by 26% to 6.5 +/- 0.4 ml.min-1.100 g-1 when hbco was present (n = 12; p less than 0.01). in both cases, mean muscle effluent venous po2 (pvo2) was the same (16 +/- 1 torr). because pao2 and pvo2 were the same for both conditions, the mean capillary po2 (estimate of mean o2 driving pressure) was probably not much different for the two conditions, even though the o2 dissociation curve was shifted to the left by hbco. consequently the blood-to-mitochondria o2 diffusive conductance was likely reduced by hbco.
in micronodular cirrhosis, hepatocytes retain a normal c-25 hydroxylation capacity toward vitamin d3: a study using the rat carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhotic model. to test further the competence of the cirrhotic liver to metabolize vitamin d3 at c-25, hepatocytes were isolated from controls and from ccl4-induced cirrhotic rat livers, as well as from partially hepatectomized rats. the transformation of d3 into 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 was studied in the presence of 10(7) hepatocytes at d3 concentrations of 20 nmol/l to 15.4 mumol/l. histologically, micronodular cirrhosis was present in all ccl4-treated rats, whereas controls had normal livers; portal venous pressure (p less than 0.008) and intrahepatic collagen content (p less than 0.0001) were significantly increased in ccl4-treated rats, whereas no difference was found between the two groups in the total and ionized serum calcium, d3 metabolites, alt, ast and alkaline phosphatase. cytochrome p-450 was 0.27 +/- 0.02 and 0.25 +/- 0.02 nmol/10(6) hepatocytes in controls and cirrhotic rats (n.s.), and it significantly increased in both groups after phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene administration (p less than 0.0001). 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 formation was best described by power law equations and varied between 0.02 +/- 0.0004 and 29.57 +/- 2.8 in controls, and 0.024 +/- 0.0004 and 32.0 +/- 7.0 pmol.hr-1.10(6) hepatocytes-1 in cirrhotic rats. no statistically significant difference was found in the slopes of the 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 formation, but the y-axis intercept was found to be lower in cirrhotic rats under basal resting conditions (p less than 0.005). inducers of the mixed function oxidases significantly increased 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 formation in controls as well as in cirrhotic rats (p less than 0.005). moreover, both groups were found to respond similarly to the addition of modulators of the enzyme such as the calcium ionophore a23187 and parathyroid hormone. partial hepatectomy was also without effect on the activation of d3. furthermore, the cell sequestration of d3 was also found to be unperturbed in hepatocytes obtained from either cirrhotic or partially hepatectomized livers. the data indicate that in well-compensated micronodular cirrhosis, the c-25 hydroxylation of d3 is generally intrinsically normal at the cellular level and that it also remains fully responsive to in vivo and in vitro modulators of its activity.
centrifugal intensity and duration as countermeasures to soleus muscle atrophy. mechanical acceleration is a countermeasure that may be employed to prevent atrophy of slow-twitch muscle during non-weight bearing. in the present study, daily centrifugation of rats for different durations (1 or 2 h) and at different gravitational intensities (1.5 or 2.6 g) was used to test whether mechanical acceleration could ameliorate the atrophy of the soleus muscle induced by non-weight bearing (tail-traction model). the soleus muscle atrophied 32% during 7 days of non-weight bearing without countermeasures. centrifugation treatment did not completely prevent atrophy relative to precontrol wet weight of the soleus muscle. non-weight-bearing groups receiving 2-h daily treatments of 1, 1.5, or 2.6 g had 48, 56, and 65%, respectively, of the atrophy observed in the non-weight-bearing-only group compared with the precontrol group. no evidence was obtained that centrifugation at 2.6 g was more effective than exposure to 1 or 1.5 g as a countermeasure to non-weight-bearing-induced atrophy of the soleus muscle.
palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis: clinical results. the palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice. because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications, an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed. thirty patients were treated by this method. after choledochotomy, the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of oddi, thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis. twenty-nine patients (13 with gallbladder cancer, 11 with cholangiocarcinomas, 5 with metastases) presented with neoplastic compression, and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases. the operative mortality was 3.3% (one pulmonary complication). resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients, and pruritus always resolved. the mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer. indices of satisfaction (bismuth's method) were 71% (gallbladder cancer), 93.5% (hilar cholangiocarcinoma), and 92% (metastatic compressions). this new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated, has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity, and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients.
myogenic regulatory protein (myod1) expression in childhood solid tumors: diagnostic utility in rhabdomyosarcoma. transcripts for the muscle regulatory gene myod1 are expressed during normal skeletal muscle myogenesis and in rhabdomyosarcomas but not in other tissues or in soft-tissue sarcomas. here we report the distribution of myod1 protein, determined by reactivity with anti-myod1 polyclonal sera in normal tissues, rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines, and in a variety of pediatric solid tumors. the distribution of myod1 protein was highly restricted in normal tissues and was detected only in fetal skeletal muscle and more faintly in adult skeletal muscle. all six human rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines analyzed expressed myod1 mrna transcripts as well as immunoreactive protein. the immunohistochemical expression of myod1 protein was then examined in 49 surgical specimens from a variety of pediatric solid tumors. each of 16 rhabdomyosarcoma specimens was positive for myod1, including four that did not express the intermediate filament protein desmin. two of five specimens originally designated sarcoma type indeterminate (sti) and two of three specimens originally designated extraosseous ewing's sarcoma (eoe) were positive for myod1, suggesting commitment to myogenic differentiation. three of eight wilms' tumors, which also expressed desmin and had clearly evident myogenic elements, also were positive for myod1. tumors that failed to express myod1 protein included neuroblastoma, primitive neuroectodermal tumor, non-hodgkins lymphoma, embryonal sarcoma of the liver, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, malignant rhabdoid tumor, and ewing's sarcoma of the bone. these results indicate that expression of myod1 protein is highly restricted in normal human tissues and that expression of this gene product in malignant tissue may be diagnostic for rhabdomyosarcoma. furthermore myod1 staining may be a valuable adjunct in the classification of pediatric soft-tissue sarcomas.
the children's orientation and amnesia test: relationship to severity of acute head injury and to recovery of memory. the children's orientation and amnesia test (coat) was developed to assess cognition serially during the early stage of recovery from traumatic brain injury in children and adolescents. the norms for the coat, which is composed of 16 items evaluating general orientation, temporal orientation, and memory, were defined from data obtained from 146 children aged 3 to 15 years. in 37 patients with head injuries, the duration of posttraumatic amnesia, as indicated by the number of days coat scores were in the impaired range, was significantly related to both verbal and nonverbal memory at the baseline and 6 and 12 months after injury. coat scores were a better predictor of verbal and nonverbal memory performance than the glasgow coma scale score at 6 and 12 months after the injury. this study shows that the coat has adequate reliability and validity as a measure of the duration of posttraumatic amnesia in children and adolescents.
brain and liver dolichol in chronic alcoholism: a necropsy study. cerebral gray and white matter and liver dolichol levels were measured in postmortem samples from chronic alcoholics and nonalcoholic controls following recent suggestions that dolichol levels may be used as a marker for alcoholism. no significant differences in brain dolichol were found between the control and alcoholic groups. a significant reduction in the liver dolichol was observed in the alcoholic group. this was most marked in those alcoholics with liver disease.
technetium-99m-hmpao brain spect in medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy: a postoperative evaluation. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the predictive value of interictal single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) using technetium-99m-labeled hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (hmpao) for the outcome after temporal lobectomy in patients with complex partial seizures. out of 40 patients, 21 underwent right-sided and 19 left-sided temporal lobectomy. eeg and ct/mri were primarily used to select the side of surgery. spect results correlated with temporal lobectomy in 68% of the patients. after surgical intervention, memory function was tested for both sides. following left-sided temporal lobectomy, verbal memory was impaired in 8% of the patients, if spect agreed with the side selected for surgery, but in 83%, if it diverged from it. in the present study, there was no relationship between spect concordance with the side of temporal lobectomy and outcome as to seizure frequency and non-verbal memory. we conclude that preoperative interictal hmpao/spect can contribute to the prediction of postoperative verbal memory function and that this method should be considered for use prior to temporal lobectomy.
efficacy of radical neck dissection for the control of cervical metastasis after radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. fifty-one patients who had persistent or recurrent neck disease from nasopharyngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy underwent radical neck dissection. the follow-up period ranged from 0.5 to 9 years (median: 2 years). multiple cervical lymph node involvement was present in 51% of the patients (26 of 51). malignant cells were detected in 88% of the resected specimens (45 of 51). the clinical sign of fixation of lymph node is the only factor that affects the successful control of neck disease (p = 0.04). extracapsular extension of the nodal disease was present, and 35% of the lymph nodes were adherent to surrounding structures at operation (18 of 51). there was one hospital mortality and the overall morbidity was minimal. the actuarial survival at 5 years was 38%, and the probability of control of neck disease was 66%. radical neck dissection is effective in controlling post-irradiation cervical metastasis from nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
functional heart replacement with the spindle pump: first results. the spindle pump is a nonpulsatile blood pump with a double function, i.e., it works centrifugally and represses simultaneously. the first experiences with this type of pump used as a biventricular assist device in four short-term animal experiments (up to 13 hours) are described. it can be demonstrated that in cases of a normally beating heart, this bvad decompresses both ventricles by 60-70%, while the aortic pressure is slightly increased; on the other hand, in case of ventricular fibrillation, the bvad with two spindle pumps maintained the entire circulation, at an arterial pressure between 80 and 90 mmhg with a flow volume between 3.5 and 4 l/min.
leukocyte larceny: spurious hypoxemia confirmed with pulse oximetry leukemic patients with extremely high white blood counts may exhibit the phenomenon of leukocyte larceny, in which white blood cells metabolize plasma oxygen in arterial blood gas samples (abg) producing a spuriously low oxygen tension. we report the case of a leukemic patient with a white blood count in excess of 500,000 in whom multiple abgs documented hypoxemia out of proportion to his clinical picture. pulse oximetry was used to confirm higher hemoglobin oxygen saturation to establish the leukocyte larceny.
clinical management of gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices. we report the late results of treatment of 13 consecutive patients with gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices. of seven good-risk patients classified as child's class a or b, gastrectomy together with selective shunt operation was performed in two, total gastrectomy with splenectomy in three, and distal partial gastrectomy with paraesophageal devascularization without splenectomy in one. the remaining patient with early gastric cancer underwent distal partial gastrectomy following repeated endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (eis) for treatment of the esophageal varices. although the majority of patients who underwent surgical repair of varices (i.e., shunt, splenectomy, or devascularization) died, total gastrectomy with splenectomy was the only procedure that led to control of the esophageal varices. since partial gastrectomy combined with eis limits the morbidity and mortality of an extensive resection and at the same time controls esophageal variceal bleeding, it is probably the procedure of choice for patients with a carcinoma in the lower two-thirds of the stomach. concerning non-surgical cases, two patients were effectively treated using laser endoscopy and eis, without the occurrence of variceal bleeding. the remaining four patients, given chemotherapy or irradiation for treatment of gastric carcinoma, died within 4 months with variceal bleeding or liver failure. for the poor-risk patients with evidence of severe liver dysfunction, laser treatment and eis would be the treatment of choice.
serious migraine: a study of some epidemiological aspects. data are scant concerning some epidemiological aspects of those severe headaches which cause serious personal and economic morbidity. our purpose was to study the incidence and other epidemiological features of patients suffering from severe migraine exacerbations, in an unselected population. the 64 patients who suffered from severe migraine bouts represented 10.5% of all the new walk-in neurological consultations in the area covered in this study. 70% of these patients were between 10 and 39 years old. although females clearly predominated in all ages after fifteen, below this age there was a slight male predominance. the calculated incidence of serious migraine exacerbations was 90 per 100,000 people per year, the corrected incidence for females being 143/100,000 and for males 37/100,000. the highest incidence for females was in 15-19 year-olds (377/100,000) and for males in 10-14 year-olds (166/100,000). our data seem to confirm the periodic nature of this condition since in 80% of patients the migraine bouts (ie: groups of attacks) lasted between two and nine months. also they support the reported existence of genetic and hormonal factors in the susceptibility to migraine exacerbations. our results may help in planning the public health aspect of migraine and add some light to the natural history of this common condition.
geriatric constipation: brief update on a common problem. constipation occurs frequently in the elderly and is often multifactorial in origin. a search for an underlying cause is necessary, and can often be found by taking an adequate history and performing a thorough physical examination. a minority of patients require further investigation, guided by the clinical setting. management should be directed at correcting the underlying cause and providing dietary advice and, less commonly, medication to allow restoration of a normal bowel habit.
the effects of etomidate on cerebral metabolism and blood flow in a canine model for hypoperfusion. the effects of etomidate, a nonbarbiturate cerebral metabolic depressant, on cerebral metabolism and blood flow were studied in 29 dogs during cerebral hypoperfusion. three groups of animals were studied during a 45-minute normotensive and a 30-minute hypotensive period: 10 control animals without etomidate, 11 animals receiving a 0.1-mg/kg etomidate bolus followed by an infusion of 0.05 mg/kg/min etomidate (low-dose group), and eight animals receiving doses of etomidate sufficient to suppress electroencephalographic bursts (high-dose group). the mean arterial pressure fell to similar levels (p less than 0.05) during hypotension in all three groups (40 +/- 5, 38 +/- 3, and 27 +/- 6 mm hg, respectively). the mean cerebral oxygen extraction fraction rose (p less than 0.05) from 0.23 +/- 0.02 to 0.55 +/- 0.08 in the five control animals tested and from 0.33 +/- 0.02 to 0.53 +/- 0.02 in the seven animals tested in the low-dose group, but did not increase (p greater than 0.05) in the four animals tested in the high-dose group (0.24 +/- 0.03 to 0.23 +/- 0.05). mean cerebral blood flow levels decreased in all groups during hypotension (p less than 0.05): 42 +/- 3 to 21 +/- 4 ml/100 gm/min (52% +/- 12% decrease) in the five animals tested in the control group, 60 +/- 8 to 24 +/- 6 ml/100 gm/min (56% +/- 13% decrease) in the four animals tested in the low-dose group, and 55 +/- 8 to 22 +/- 3 ml/100 gm/min (60% +/- 4% decrease) in the four animals tested in the high-dose group. in summary, the cerebral oxygen extraction fraction increased in the control animals and low-dose recipients during hypotension, suggesting the presence of threatened cerebral tissue. in contrast, the cerebral oxygen extraction did not change during hypotension when high-dose etomidate was administered. it is concluded that high-dose etomidate may preserve the cerebral metabolic state during hypotension in the present model.
germ-line transmission of a mutated p53 gene in a cancer-prone family with li-fraumeni syndrome tumour suppressor genes, whose usual function seems to be controlling normal cell proliferation, have been implicated in many inherited and sporadic forms of malignancies much evidence supports the concept of tumour formation by loss-of-function mutations in suppressor genes, as predicted by the two-hit model of knudson and demars. the suppressor gene, p53, is affected in such a manner by numerous mutations, which occur in a variety of human tumours. these mutations usually represent the loss of one allele and the substitution of a single base in the other. we have now analysed the p53 gene in a family affected by li-fraumeni syndrome, a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by the occurrence of diverse mesenchymal and epithelial neoplasms at multiple sites. in some instances the neoplasms seem to be related to exposure to carcinogens, including ionizing radiation. the li-fraumeni family that we studied had noncancerous skin fibroblasts (nsf) with an unusual radiation-resistant phenotype. dna derived from the nsf cells of four family members, spanning two generations, had the same point mutation in codon 245 (ggc----gac) of the p53 gene. this mutation leads to substitution of aspartic acid for glycine in one of the regions identified as a frequent target of point mutations in p53. the nsf cell lines with the mutation also retained the normal p53 allele. this inherited p53 mutation may predispose the members of this family to increased susceptibility to cancer.
duodenal ulcer hemorrhage with and without dyspepsia. to clarify the clinical significance of dyspepsia in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer, we studied 298 patients prospectively. ages of patients ranged from 16 to 81 yr (mean 45.9). there were 244 (82%) dyspeptic and 54 (18%) nondyspeptic patients. in the dyspeptic group, significantly more patients were taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. in the nondyspeptic group, there was a higher percentage of patients with duodenal bulb deformity (p less than 0.005), which deformity was related to previous peptic ulcer disease. the age, sex, past history of dyspepsia or bleeding, consumption of alcohol and cigarettes, and the hospital course of the two groups of patients did not differ significantly. our results show that the clinical course of duodenal ulcer hemorrhage is not significantly different in patients with or without dyspepsia, and indicate that bleeding and dyspepsia probably are two independent presentations in the natural course of the disease. the significance of the correlation between dyspepsia and duodenal bulb deformity is discussed.
validation of a surveillance case definition of carpal tunnel syndrome the national institute for occupational safety and health (niosh) has proposed a surveillance case definition for work-related carpal tunnel syndrome (cts). the case definition requires the presence of median nerve symptoms; one or more occupational risk factors; and objective evidence of cts including one of three physical examination findings or nerve conduction tests diagnostic of cts. we evaluated the performance of the niosh case definition, restricting our analysis to cases in which physical examination findings served as the objective criterion. nerve conduction studies were used as the gold standard. seventy-eight workers were studied; 38 percent had cts. the niosh case definition had sensitivity of 0.67 (95% ci = 0.57, 0.77), specificity of 0.58 (95% ci = 0.47, 0.69), and positive and negative predictive values of 0.50 (95% ci = 0.39, 0.61) and 0.74 (95% ci = 0.64, 0.84), respectively. overall 38 percent of subjects were classified incorrectly. in a sample with a prevalence of 15 percent, as might be encountered in high risk workplaces, the positive predictive value would be 0.22. in conclusion, when physical examination findings serve as the objective criterion the performance of the case definition is modest reflecting the limited diagnostic value of its component tests and indicating that effective screening for cts awaits improved diagnostic techniques.
evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring: a case study approach. three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation (svo2) monitoring in critical care nursing practice. examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how svo2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization. in the first case, the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery. continuous svo2 data aided nurses in guiding, adjusting, and assessing therapy. the second case demonstrates how svo2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication. the final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization. in all the cases, continuous svo2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization.
ulcerative lesions and herpes simplex virus type 2 in a patient with evan's syndrome. we have described a case of herpes genitalis in a patient with evans's syndrome who had violaceous macules leading to deep ulcerations. this case serves as a reminder that hsv infection may be atypical and have an unusual course in immunocompromised patients. with the availability of specific therapy for this infection, it is important to consider hsv in the differential diagnosis of all ulcerative skin lesions.
a comparison of ho's, international union against cancer, and american joint committee stage classifications for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. five hundred sixty-four nasopharyngeal carcinomas (npc), mostly of undifferentiated histologic type, were studied for survival, distant metastasis, and local recurrence. all had computerized tomography of the nasopharynx and skull base (ct-np) and fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy for evaluation of the primary tumor. regional disease was assessed by palpation. a computer data base was formed on presentation, containing all information required for staging according to ho's, the international union against cancer (uicc), and the american joint committee (ajc) classifications. the three were compared for their efficacy in predicting prognosis. ho's classification was superior to the other two because its overall stages differed from one another more significantly in the actuarial survival (asr), disease-free survival (dfs), and freedom from distant metastasis (fdm) rates, and its n staging was more accurate in predicting fdm. stages t1 and t2 of uicc/ajc were similar in the freedom from local recurrence rate (flr) and should be grouped together, equivalent to ho's t1. a more even patients number distribution among the stages also favored the use of ho's classification.
reduction in hepatic venous pressure gradient as a consequence of volume contraction due to chronic administration of spironolactone in patients with cirrhosis and no ascites. the effect of plasma volume contraction induced by a 4-wk administration of spironolactone or furosemide on the hepatic venous pressure gradient was evaluated in consecutively allocated patients with cirrhosis and no ascites. in the spironolactone group (n = 15), the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly (p less than 0.005), by 21.8%, with a significant contraction of circulating plasma volume (p less than 0.01). although there were no statistically significant correlations between the change in hepatic venous pressure gradient and changes in circulating plasma volume or in simultaneously determined systemic hemodynamics, a significant negative correlation (r = -0.74, p less than 0.01, n = 12) between the hepatic venous pressure gradient change and the post-treatment plasma aldosterone levels was found. however, in the furosemide group (n = 10), the hepatic venous pressure gradient and circulating plasma volume did not significantly decrease. our data demonstrated a significant reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient on a chronic administration of spironolactone, which may have been due to volume contractions in patients with cirrhosis and no ascites.
generation of "soft x-rays" by using the free electron laser as a proposed means of diagnosing and treating breast cancer. the diagnosis and treatment of breast lesions may be markedly enhanced by the use of a unique new source of near-monochromatic x-rays. concentric beams of near-monochromatic x-ray photons may be generated by collision of the free electron laser (fel) electron beam with the optical beam in an interaction zone that delivers the x-rays to a shirtsleeve environment. the absence of compton scatter and the photoelectric interaction within tissues improves conspicuity of lesions by two to six times. increased attenuation of x-rays in malignant vs. normal tissues makes tumors more obvious. k-edge subtraction allows chemical analysis of tumors in vivo--all at radiation doses that are one-tenth to one-fiftieth that delivered by the lowest-dose mammographic x-ray technique available. this allows for an increased sensitivity and specificity and permits prediction of histology, negating necessity for biopsies. selective bond-breaking at depth in tissues as well as x-ray-activated photodynamic therapy are also being explored.
acute axonal polyneuropathy associated with anti-gm1 antibodies following campylobacter enteritis. we report 2 patients with guillain-barre syndrome (gbs) following campylobacter jejuni enteritis. electrophysiologic studies indicated that the predominant process was axonal degeneration of motor nerves, and clinical recovery was poor. serum testing by thin-layer chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that the sera from both patients contained high titers of igg antibody against gm1 ganglioside. these cases may represent a subgroup of gbs as acute axonal polyneuropathy following c jejuni enteritis associated with anti-gm1 antibodies.
hemodynamic effects of partial correction of chronic anemia by recombinant human erythropoietin in patients on dialysis. eighteen patients on chronic hemodialysis with renal anemia were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin (r-huepo). hemodynamic parameters in the resting state were determined before and after successful treatment. posttreatment cardiac index was decreased (3.3 v 2.8 l/min/m2), whereas diastolic blood pressure (72 v 79 mm hg) and calculated peripheral resistance (2,230 v 2,860 dyne.cm.s-5) were increased significantly when compared with the pretreatment period. we conclude from our study that the increase of blood pressure as seen in patients on dialysis, who are effectively treated with r-huepo, is due to an increase in peripheral resistance. this increase overrules the decrease of cardiac index and might well be a result of peripheral vasoconstriction due to improved oxygen availability.
primary malignant peritoneal mesothelioma. a report of seven cases and a review of the literature. mesothelioma of the peritoneum is a rare malignant neoplasm easily mistaken by both surgeon and pathologist for one of the more common neoplasms of the abdomen. review of our records from metropolitan-area hospitals for the past 15 years identified seven patients with primary peritoneal mesotheliomas. their diagnosis, management, and survival is analyzed. we report a case of an extended survivor (7 years) and one of a long-term survivor (15 years), as well as what we believe to be the only case in the literature presenting with a coexistent malignant neoplasm. prevention of this commonly fatal neoplasm is linked to avoiding occupational exposure to asbestos; long-term survival for a few patients may be achieved with correct identification of the neoplasm and aggressive management. this report includes a review of the literature.
urothelial hyperplasia and neoplasia. iii. detection of nitrosamine production with different bacterial genera in chronic urinary tract infections of rats. various agents have been implicated in inducing urothelial cancer. although drugs, occupational and environmental carcinogens are more widely accepted as playing a major role as urothelial carcinogens, several investigations suggest that bacteria may play a role. the mechanism of how bacteria may interact with the host to augment the development of urothelial carcinoma is not well understood. clinically, investigators have linked the development of infection, urinary stones and indwelling catheters with urothelial cancer. other investigators have suggested that the mechanism may be related to the production of carcinogenic compounds (nitrosamines) which can be detected during urinary tract infection. in our laboratory, we showed that rats with chronic urinary tract infections produced increasing urinary levels of n,n dimethylnitrosamine over a 24 week period and that the production correlated with hyperplasia and early neoplasia of the bladder epithelium. three bacterial genera were used and two of these (escherichia coli and a protein sp.) showed production of increasing levels of urinary nitrosamine and correlated with infection. the purpose of this current study is to determine if other bacterial genera and strains can also produce similar increasing nitrosamine levels in the rat model of chronic urinary tract infection and thus provide evidence that a number of bacterial genera and strains can produce nitrosamines in vivo. also, the histology of the chronically infected bladder was examined for hyperplasia and neoplasia.
immunotherapy in acute arsenic poisoning. we investigated the use of immunotherapy on the treatment of sodium arsenite toxicity. female balb/c mice injected with arsanilic acid conjugated to a carrier protein (ovalbumin) were shown to produce antibodies (arsenic reactive serum, ars) reactive with arsanilic acid and sodium arsenite. serum was tested for anti-ars antibodies using a solid phase radioimmunoassay. the antisera bound to ars conjugated to the synthetic copolymer glutamic acid60 tyrosine30 when diluted as high as 1:4096. following multiple injections of 100 micrograms of arsanilic acid--ovalbumin compound, mortality on injection with sodium arsenite 0.87 mg/kg i.p. one week later decreased to 0 deaths in 22 pretreated mice vs 9 deaths in 29 untreated mice (31% mortality; p less than .005). no decrease in mortality was noted at higher challenges (1.15 mg/kg) of sodium arsenite. antisera from pretreated mice was injected 0.1 cc i.p. into 12 week old female balb/c mice followed by an injection of sodium arsenite 0.87 mg/kg i.p. at 10 minutes. again a protective effect was observed with 0 deaths in 18 mice vs eight deaths in 21 mice (38%; p less than .005). seventeen additional mice were given an injection of 0.87 mg/kg i.p. of sodium arsenite. after 30 minutes, all mice became symptomatic whereupon antisera 0.1 cc i.p. was given. the one day mortality (2/17, 12%) was possibly lower than the combined control mortality (17/50, 34%; p less than 0.07). there was no change in mortality noted when antisera was administered to mice acutely exposed to 5 mg/kg hgcl2.
furosemide absorption in patients with cirrhosis. twelve patients with cirrhosis (seven mild and five severe) were administered intravenous and oral furosemide in random order to assess its absorption and disposition. total serum clearance (113 +/- 49 ml/min), volume of distribution (11.9 +/- 4.5 l), and elimination half-life (166 +/- 149 minutes) were similar to those reported previously in both healthy control subjects and patients with cirrhosis. bioavailability of 58% +/- 17% (range, 37% to 82%) was comparable to that of previous studies, and there was no difference between patients with mild and those with severe cirrhosis. in 9 of 12 patients the mean absorption time was longer than the mean residence time determined after intravenous administration (mean for all patients, 203 +/- 86 versus 134 +/- 101 minutes; p less than 0.05), indicating that furosemide followed a "flip-flop" model in these patients. in all patients the mean absorption time was prolonged relative to normal subjects irrespective of the presence of edema. as such, the slower absorption of furosemide in edematous states, such as congestive heart failure and cirrhosis, does not appear to be a consequence of edema per se. moreover, because similar changes occur in patients with congestive heart failure, it seems that diseases with diverse pathophysiology can slow furosemide absorption.
clinical review 16: parathyroid hormone-related proteins: coming of age in the 1990s. the last 3 yr have yielded a fertile harvest of new information on the hhm clinical syndrome and on the novel peptide hormone family responsible for the syndrome. whereas the clinical riddle enshrouding the hhm syndrome first posed in the early 1940s appears to have been largely solved, a whole new field, concerning the physiological role(s) of pthrp has opened. the field has evolved rapidly and provides an example of fruitful clinical investigation: the original problem was a clinical one (the hhm syndrome); understanding the clinical disorder led to pursuit of the problem in the laboratory (adenylate cyclase assays, protein purification, molecular cloning, pthrp synthesis); and observations made in the laboratory have rapidly yielded clinical fruits (pthrp immunoassays) and opened a new window on normal physiology.
improving outcomes of analgesic treatment: is education enough? frequent undertreatment of analgesic-responsive acute pain and chronic cancer pain persists, despite intensive efforts to provide clinicians with information about analgesics. a set of background factors must be addressed in interventions to improve pain treatment: traditional patterns of clinician and patient interaction on the ward, quality assurance, and drug regulatory practices do not support prompt recognition and treatment of pain. possible interventions to modify these patterns of daily practice include monitoring and displaying patient pain ratings routinely, making available educational tools to assist optimal drug ordering, encouraging patients to communicate about unrelieved pain, reviewing quality assurance of pain treatment regimens, increasing behavioral research into analgesic prescribing, and selectively modifying narcotics regulatory practices.
immunophenotypic characteristics of cerebrospinal fluid cells in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia at diagnosis. the presence of meningeal involvement in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) may have important prognostic and therapeutic implications. conventional methods of diagnosing central nervous system (cns) leukemia rely on the interpretation of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) cell morphology, which may produce ambiguous results in the presence of minimal leukemic involvement. a methodology has been developed for immunophenotyping small numbers of csf cells while preserving cell morphology. csf samples from 33 children with cd10 (common all antigen [calla]) positive all were examined at initial presentation using both conventional morphology and this combined immunohistopathologic technique. six (18%) of the samples contained lymphoblasts or cells considered morphologically suspicious for leukemic involvement. nine additional samples (27% of the total) had normal csf morphology, but contained increased numbers of calla positive cells. twelve of the 33 samples were also examined for the simultaneous presence of nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt) and demonstrated increased numbers of cells positive for both tdt and cd10. these data suggest that a large proportion of children with all may have abnormalities of csf cells at initial diagnosis consistent with the presence of occult leukemic involvement.
prolonged paralysis following suxamethonium and the use of neostigmine. a case of prolonged neuromuscular block following the administration of suxamethonium is reported. three hours after administration of suxamethonium, a well defined, recovering phase ii block was demonstrated with a t4:t1 ratio of 0.25, and neostigmine was administered. although the t4:t1 ratio was improved to 0.9, t1 remained at 25% of control, and significant paralysis persisted which responded to administration of cholinesterase. it is concluded that neuromuscular monitoring cannot reliably predict reversibility in such cases and that, even after 3 h, antagonism of prolonged suxamethonium block should commence with cholinesterase, followed by neostigmine if necessary.
synthetic analogues of fumagillin that inhibit angiogenesis and suppress tumour growth. neovascularization is critical for the growth of tumours and is a dominant feature in a variety of angiogenic diseases such as diabetic retinopathy, haemangiomas, arthritis and psoriasis. recognition of the potential therapeutic benefit of controlling unabated capillary growth has led to a search for safe and effective angiogenesis inhibitors. we report here the synthesis of a family of novel inhibitors that are analogues of fumagillin, a naturally secreted antibiotic of aspergillus fumigatus fresenius. we first isolated this fungus from a contaminated culture of capillary endothelial cells. purified fumagillin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation in vitro and tumour-induced angiogenesis in vivo; it also inhibited tumour growth in mice, but prolonged administration was limited because it caused severe weight loss. synthesis of fumagillin analogues yielded potent angiogenesis inhibitors ('angioinhibins') which suppress the growth of a wide variety of tumours with relatively few side-effects.
peripheral alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in three models of hypertension in rats: an in vitro autoradiography study. in vitro autoradiography was used to compare peripheral alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor binding in various tissues using [3h]prazosin and [3h]rauwolscine, respectively, in three models of experimental hypertension in rats. models studied included two-kidney, one-clip hypertension, one-kidney, one-clip hypertension, desoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension, and three normotensive control groups: two-kidney control, one-kidney control and salt-loaded control. blood pressures at death were significantly higher in all three hypertensive groups compared with normotensive controls, but there were no significant differences among the hypertensive or normotensive groups. plasma norepinephrine levels were significantly elevated in all three hypertensive groups compared with respective controls, with no significant differences among hypertensive or control groups. in all three hypertensive groups, there were significant reductions in binding of aortic and mesenteric vascular alpha-1 receptors, renal tubular alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors, and adrenal cortical alpha-2 receptors when compared with respective control groups. reduced binding of cardiac ventricular alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors was also found in all hypertensive groups, but not to statistically significant levels. no significant differences in intestinal alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptor binding were detected in either hypertensive or normotensive groups. the results suggest increased peripheral sympathetic activity in all three models of experimental hypertension, which is associated with down-regulation of alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors in a number of peripheral tissues, especially those that control cardiovascular hemodynamics and fluid and salt balance. there is no evidence of an increase in peripheral alpha receptor binding as has often been found in some models of genetic or spontaneous hypertension.
mutation of the prion protein in libyan jews with creutzfeldt-jakob disease. background. creutzfeldt-jakob disease is a transmissible neurodegenerative disorder that occurs more than 100 times more frequently among libyan jews than in the worldwide population. we examined 11 patients with the disease--10 libyan jews from israel and 1 libyan jew from italy--to determine whether abnormalities of the prion protein could be detected in them. abnormal forms of this host-encoded protein are the predominant if not sole components of the transmissible agent that causes the disease. methods. the prion-protein open-reading frame in peripheral-leukocyte dna from the italian patient was amplified with the polymerase chain reaction and sequenced. allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization was used to assess a prion-protein codon 200 lysine mutation in the 10 israeli patients and 37 control subjects. results. the prion-protein sequence in dna from the italian patient revealed a single nucleotide change (g----a) at the first position of codon 200 that resulted in a substitution of lysine for glutamate. this substitution was detected in all 10 israeli patients, 8 of whom had a positive family history of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. one patient was homozygous for the lysine mutation, and her clinical course did not differ from that of the patients heterozygous for the mutation. the lysine mutation was not found in one moroccan jew from israel with creutzfeldt-jakob disease. conclusions. the codon 200 lysine mutation of the prion-protein gene is consistently present among libyan jews with creutzfeldt-jakob disease, strongly supporting a genetic pathogenesis of their illness. the similarity of the clinical courses of the patient homozygous for this mutation and the patients heterozygous for it argues that familial creutzfeldt-jakob disease is a true dominant disorder.
transient left ventricular cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging as an indicator of severe coronary artery disease. transient left ventricular (lv) cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging was reported in 45 of 510 (9%) consecutive patients referred for dipyridamole-thallium imaging. clinical and hemodynamic effects observed during dipyridamole infusion were not predictive of transient cavitary dilation on the thallium images. coronary angiography was performed in 32 of the 45 patients: 75% had either left main, 3-vessel or "high-risk" 2-vessel coronary artery disease. although 25 of 45 patients (56%) with transient cavitary dilation were either asymptomatic or had only grade 1/4 effort angina, 16 of 25 patients (64%) not referred for coronary revascularization sustained a cardiac event during a mean follow-up of 12 months. most events were cardiac deaths (75%) and 87% of events occurred within 4 months of the test. noncardiac surgery was performed in 187 of the 510 patients. the postoperative cardiac event rate was 2% in the 101 patients with normal scans or fixed defects, 19% in 75 patients with reversible perfusion defects and 58% in 12 patients with reversible cavitary dilation (p less than 0.0001). thus, transient lv dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging is a marker of severe underlying coronary artery disease, denotes a poor prognosis and predicts a high risk of postoperative cardiac complications in patients who undergo noncardiac surgery.
distribution and specific identification of papillomavirus major capsid protein epitopes by immunocytochemistry and epitope scanning of synthetic peptides. monoclonal (mabs) and polyclonal antibodies were produced against the major capsid protein of detergent-disrupted, purified bovine papillomavirus type 1 (bpv-1). the precise locations of the corresponding epitopes were identified by the reactivity of mabs and selected polyclonal antibodies with synthetic, overlapping, hexameric peptides corresponding with 95% of the bpv-1 major capsid protein. the topography of these epitopes was determined by reactivity of antibodies with intact (conformational and nonconformational surface epitopes) and disrupted (external or internal nonconformational epitopes) bpv-1 virions. the distribution of epitopes in various papillomaviruses of 13 different species was determined by reactivity of the mabs and polyclonal sera with productively infected, formalin-fixed papillomas, fibropapillomas, and fibromas. epitope scanning, using mabs and polyclonal antisera, resulted in the precise location of bpv-1 hexameric epitopes that could be correlated with their topography on the capsid and distribution in papillomatous lesions of various species.
familial paroxysmal kinesigenic ataxia and continuous myokymia. a large family with paroxysmal ataxia and continuous myokymic discharges is described. the disorder is of autosomal dominant inheritance. during attacks coordination of movements and balance are disturbed; often a postural tremor of the head and the hands and fine twitching in some of the facial and hand muscles are present. the attacks usually last a few minutes and may occur several times per day. they first appear in childhood and tend to abate after early adulthood. the attacks are frequently precipitated by kinesigenic stimuli similar to those in paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis. their occurrence can be reduced or prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. between attacks a slight postural tremor and ataxia was found in a few of the elderly affected members. fine rippling myokymia was obvious in a few and could be detected on close inspection in about half of the adults. electromyography (emg) showed myokymic discharges in all affected members. the characteristics and reactivity of this myokymic activity suggest multiple impulse generation in the peripheral nerves.
tongue atrophy in mixed connective tissue disease. a case is reported of tongue atrophy in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease (mctd) and major myositic involvement. the case highlights oropharyngeal aspects of mctd, including inability to wear dentures, dysarthria, and dysphagia. to our knowledge this is the first report of major tongue involvement in myositis as part of mctd.
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside, "spread-out" or "up-front," in continuation therapy for childhood non-t, non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia. a pediatric oncology group study. one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t-, non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) were treated in a pediatric oncology group (pog) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate (mtx) and cytosine arabinoside (ara-c) (1 g/m2 each) were added to a "backbone" of standard continuation therapy. the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c. poor-risk patients (n = 49) were assigned to "up-front" therapy, in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission. standard-risk patients (n = 57) were assigned to "spread-out" therapy, in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment. toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c, principally neutropenia and fever, was judged significant but manageable. unexpectedly, the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after "spread-out" therapy (38%) than after "up-front" therapy (6%). at 4 years, the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival (efs) is 71% (+/- 7%) for standard-risk patients and 53% (+/- 8%) for poor-risk patients. the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies.
differential memory and executive functions in demented patients with parkinson's and alzheimer's disease. selected aspects of verbal memory and executive function were compared in 11 demented parkinson's disease (pd) patients and 11 alzheimer's disease (ad) patients with equally severe dementia, with 11 healthy controls matched for age and education. semantic and episodic memory were impared in all patients compared with controls, but to a relatively greater degree in ad patients than in those with pd. in contrast, demented pd patients were relatively more compromised on executive tasks. these findings, taken in the context of the neuropathological and neurochemical overlap between demented pd and ad patients, suggest that differences in neurobehavioural patterns in patients with these diseases are relative, rather than absolute.
autologous bone marrow transplantation for high-grade lymphoid malignancy using melphalan/irradiation conditioning without marrow purging or cryopreservation. the northern regional bone marrow transplant group. we report the safety and efficacy of 34 consecutive autologous bone marrow transplant (abmt) procedures performed in adult patients with high-grade lymphoid malignancy after remission induction therapy. fifteen patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and six with high-grade non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) received pretransplant conditioning with intravenous (iv) melphalan and fractionated total body irradiation (tbi). thirteen other patients with nhl were conditioned with melphalan alone, having previously received local involved field radiotherapy. unmanipulated noncryopreserved autologous marrow was reinfused within 48 hours of harvesting. engraftment occurred in all patients with medians of 10 days of neutropenia (neutrophils less than 0.5 x 10(9)/l), 4-day platelet transfusion requirement, 3 u packed rbc transfusion, and 18 days in hospital posttransplant. there were no procedure-related deaths. actuarial disease-free survival in the 13 patients with all receiving autotransplant early in first remission is 48% with a median follow-up of 3 years. two other all patients who had autotransplants after a period of maintenance therapy also remain in complete remission (cr). these results compare favorably with our 34% disease-free survival (dfs) in 15 allogeneic all transplant patients and 21% dfs in 19 patients on standard maintenance after a common induction schedule. no relapses have occurred in the 17 nhl patients transplanted in remission (median follow-up 2 years), but the two nhl patients who developed recurrent disease before abmt died of progressive disease after temporary responses. we conclude that this method of abmt results in rapid reengraftment with lack of toxicity and that the conditioning treatment used shows good efficacy against disease. it is applicable in high-grade lymphoid malignancy in first remission, and our results call into question the need for marrow purging in all and nhl patients transplanted in first remission.
the use of ketoconazole in ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone syndrome. the authors report a patient with ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (acth) syndrome (eas) resulting from small cell lung cancer. treatment with ketoconazole (kcz) resulted in significant suppression of serum cortisol levels. the authors confirmed kcz to be a useful adjunct in the treatment of cushing's syndrome.
effect of increased left atrial pressure on breathing frequency in anesthetized dog. distension or loading of the isolated canine left heart caused reflex tachypnea in prior studies. the object of the present effort was to explore the possibility that this depended primarily on atrial distension. cardiopulmonary bypass perfusion and ligation of pulmonary veins were used to isolate the left-heart chambers of anesthetized dogs. simultaneous distension of the beating left atrium and fibrillating ventricle stimulated breathing frequency (f), whereas isolated ventricular distension did not. at other times, intervals of atrial fibrillation were imposed under two different conditions: 1) while the right heart and lungs were bypassed and systemic perfusion was provided by the left ventricle using blood returned to the left atrium by pump and 2) while the ventricles fibrillated and systemic perfusion was supplied directly by the pump. atrial fibrillation increased left atrial pressure and stimulated f in condition 1. in condition 2, f increased only if fibrillation was associated with a rise in left atrial pressure. vagal cooling blocked the effect of fibrillation. i conclude that left atrial distension may initiate reflex tachypnea.
intraoperative radiation of canine carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve. therapeutic applications in the management of advanced head and neck cancers. as a step in the application of intraoperative radiotherapy (iort) for treating advanced head and neck cancers, preliminary information was obtained on the radiation tolerance of the canine common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve to a single, high-dose electron beam. both sides of the neck of eight mongrel dogs were operated on to expose an 8-cm segment of common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve. one side of the neck was irradiated, using escalating doses of 2500, 3500, 4500, and 5500 cgy. the contralateral side of the neck served as the unirradiated control. at 3 and 6 months after iort, one dog at each dose level was killed. none of the dogs developed carotid bleeding at any time after iort. light microscopic investigations using hematoxylin-eosin staining on the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein showed no consistent changes that suggested radiation damage; however, the masson trichrome stain and hydroxyproline concentration of irradiated common carotid artery indicated an increase in the collagen content of the tunica media. marked changes in the irradiated vagus nerve were seen, indicating severe demyelination and loss of nerve fibers, which appeared to be radiation-dose dependent. four patients with advanced recurrent head and neck cancer were treated with surgical resection and iort without any acute or subacute complications. the role of iort as a supplement to surgery, external beam irradiation, and chemotherapy in selected patients with advanced head and neck cancer needs further exploration.
suppression of serum insulin level by diazoxide does not alter serum testosterone or sex hormone-binding globulin levels in healthy, nonobese women. suppression of serum insulin levels with diazoxide is associated with a decrease in serum testosterone and an increase in serum sex hormone-binding globulin in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome. to determine whether physiologic insulin levels play a regulatory role in the androgen status of nonobese women with normal menses, the androgen status of five nonobese normal women was assessed on two occasions: during a control study and after 10 days of oral diazoxide (100 mg, three times daily) administration. insulin release in response to 100 gm oral glucose administration decreased from 108.0 +/- 28.2 to 49.3 +/- 5.2 nmol.min/l (p = 0.05) after diazoxide administration. however, despite suppression of insulin release, diazoxide administration did not affect serum total testosterone (diazoxide, 0.73 +/- 0.10; control, 0.69 +/- 0.11 nmol/l; p = ns) or sex hormone-binding globulin (diazoxide, 79.7 +/- 16.6; control, 70.2 +/- 12.6 nmol/l; p = ns) concentrations. these observations suggest that physiologic insulin levels in nonobese healthy women do not regulate testosterone metabolism and that diazoxide does not exert a direct or independent effect on serum testosterone or sex hormone-binding globulin levels.
isolated trigeminal sensory loss secondary to a distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report. a previously healthy 25-year-old woman suddenly developed right-sided facial numbness and a headache. the neurological examination was within normal limits with the exception of meningismus and right-sided facial sensory loss. a computed tomographic scan and a magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrated an acute hematoma in the right cerebellopontine angle. a 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed no abnormalities. posterior fossa exploration disclosed a large, partially thrombosed, fusiform anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm, which indented the pons at the trigeminal root entry zone. the aneurysm was excised, and the patient made an excellent recovery. she was left with a persistent trigeminal sensory deficit. anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms are rare lesions that generally present with a cerebellopontine angle syndrome; occasionally, facial sensory loss is also a feature. isolated trigeminal sensory findings, as illustrated in this case, are extremely unusual in posterior fossa vascular lesions.
nondiagnosed left main ostial stenosis partly due to the use of 5 french coronary angiographic catheters. two cases have been reported in which the use of 5 f angiographic catheters is associated with a failure to diagnose an ostial stenosis of the left main coronary artery (lmca). in both cases, the erroneous diagnosis led to an inappropriate indication for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) on other stenosed vessels, and the ostial left main lesion was unexpectedly discovered when using 8f guiding catheters. it is supposed that the ability of performed 5f catheters to pass easily through an ostial lesion makes detection of such proximal stenosis much more difficult. we suggest that the choice of 5f catheters must be approached with caution when left main disease is potentially expected from the clinical features.
intraoperative assessment of cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery. one of the problems in carotid surgery is the intraoperative detection of brain ischemia. none of the methods (eeg; stump pressure) applied so far have been successful. branston et al. (1974) found a threshold relationship between cortical cerebral blood flow and cortical somatosensory evoked potential (sep). as the local blood flow fell below about 16 ml/100 g/min a progressive reduction occurred in the amplitude of the cortical evoked potential (n20/p25), implying a fundamental failure of neuronal function in the somatosensory cortex. we have monitored cortical sep (somatosensory evoked potential) during 734 cea's (carotid endarterectomies) in order to find an index of risk of incipient cerebral ischemia during carotid cross-clamping, to determine the need for shunting and the causes of early irreversible neurologic deficits. in 59 cases evaluation of sep was not possible because of technical difficulties. during 586 cea's no alteration of sep occurred. however, 4 patients had an immediate postoperative neurologic deficit, while the sep remained normal. abnormal sep occurred in 89 cases and in 6 of these an irreversible loss of sep was seen. these patients awoke with a new neurologic deficit. we found a reversible abnormal sep in 83 cases. reversible changes of sep occurred mainly during carotid clamping. the diagnostic sensitivity of intraoperative sep monitoring in predicting neurologic outcome was 60% with a specificity of 100%.
sinus node-atrioventricular node isolation: long-term results with the "corridor" operation for atrial fibrillation the "corridor" operation is designed to restore sinus rhythm to patients with atrial fibrillation by electrically isolating the sinus node, a band of atrial tissue and the atrioventricular (av) node from the remaining atrial tissue. nine patients with drug-refractory atrial fibrillation underwent this operation; four patients had chronic atrial fibrillation and five had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; the mean duration of symptoms was 12 +/- 8 years. patient ages ranged from 25 to 68 years (mean 48 +/- 12). at preoperative electrophysiologic study, no patient had evidence of an accessory av pathway or av node reentry. sinus node recovery time could not be determined in five patients because of recurrent atrial fibrillation during or before programmed stimulation. at operation the corridor of atrial tissue connecting the sinus and av nodes was successfully isolated from the remaining left and right atrial tissue in all patients. one patient required early reoperation for recurrent atrial fibrillation before hospital discharge. at the predischarge electrophysiologic study, the corridor remained isolated in all patients except for one patient who had intermittent conduction between the corridor and excluded right atrium. one patient had nonsustained atrial fibrillation and one had atrial tachycardia evident in the corridor. atypical av node reentry of uncertain significance was induced in one other patient. over a total follow-up of 191 patient months (mean 21 +/- 20), seven patients remained free of atrial fibrillation. two patients had recurrent atrial fibrillation, which in one patient was effectively controlled by a single antiarrhythmic agent. a permanent pacemaker was implanted in four patients for sinus node dysfunction.
surgical management of nonparasitic cystic liver disease. we report clinical features, surgical management, recurrences, and follow-up study of 12 patients with simple hepatic cyst, 11 patients with polycystic liver disease, and 19 patients with cystadenoma who were surgically treated over a 25-year period. the median age of patients was 48 years, and 37 women and 5 men were in the series. the most common presenting symptom and physical finding were chronic abdominal pain and tenderness in the right upper quadrant. the most commonly associated disease was polycystic kidney disease, which was an associated finding in 5 of the 11 patients with polycystic liver disease (45%). the most valuable diagnostic studies in all groups were computed tomography and ultrasonography. the location of the disease was bilobar in patients with polycystic liver disease, with a right lobe predominance in 18% of patients. the right lobe was also predominant in 83% of patients with simple hepatic cyst and 58% of patients with cystadenoma. of all solitary cystic lesions in the left lobe, 75% of them were cystadenomas. of the 66 surgical procedures performed, aspiration was associated with a failure rate of 100%; partial excision, a failure rate of 61%; and total excision and liver resection, a failure rate of 0%. orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in three patients and was associated with two early deaths. partial excision relieved symptoms in three patients (43%) with polycystic liver disease. total excision, enucleation, or liver resection with cyst(s) is the treatment of choice for non-parasitic cystic lesions of the liver.
blood-pool radionuclide angiography in patients with a novacor left ventricular assist device. blood-pool radionuclide angiography was used to investigate the left ventricular function in eight patients who received a novacor assist device as a bridge-to-cardiac transplantation. studies were performed during maximal and minimal tolerated assist device flows. the left ventricular ejection fraction, volumes, cardiac output, and the pump ejection fraction were computer-assessed. all patients had severe left ventricular dilation and hypokinesis before insertion of the assist device, with a mean ejection fraction of 18% +/- 4% which improved to 44% +/- 18% (p less than 0.01) during maximal assist device flows, but fell to 25% +/- 15% (p less than 0.01) during minimal flows. the ventricular volumes became normal at maximal assist device flow but increased significantly (p less than 0.05) during minimal flow. the pump was well visualized and had an ejection fraction of 82% +/- 7%. these data indicate that this assist device effectively unloads the left ventricle. the deterioration in ejection fraction following decrease in assist device flow is in keeping with the dependency of these patients on the device to sustain adequate hemodynamics.
the central (intraosseous) calcifying odontogenic cyst: an analysis of 215 cases. this study reviews and analyzes the clinical, radiographic, and histomorphologic features of the 215 cases of central calcifying odontogenic cyst (ccoc) reported in the literature. based on the present information, a clinicopathologic classification of calcifying odontogenic cyst is proposed. the ccoc is also compared with its peripheral counterpart and the differences discussed.
doxazosin for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure: results of a randomized double-blind and placebo-controlled study. in this study we evaluated the effects of once-daily administration of oral doxazosin in patients with chronic congestive heart failure (chf). after a stabilization period of at least 2 weeks with digitalis and diuretics, 73 patients with chronic chf were randomized to receive additionally either doxazosin or placebo in double-blind fashion. patients underwent weekly dose adjustments with increasing doses of doxazosin (1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 mg daily) or placebo for 5 weeks, and 67 were evaluated for 12 additional weeks on maximally tolerated doses of blinded study drugs. treatment groups were evaluated with respect to symptoms of heart failure, indexes of quality of life and left ventricular function, frequency and type of arrhythmia, adverse events, and mortality rates. doxazosin (11.9 +/- 0.9 mg) given once daily produced a favorable trend in the investigators' and patients' assessments of symptomatic change. doxazosin was associated with a significantly higher level of voluntary submaximal exercise and a favorable trend on left ventricular ejection fraction (increase of 9.8% of the baseline value vs 2.7% with placebo; p = ns). during the 3-month steady-dosing period, patients treated with doxazosin had a significant (p less than 0.004) reduction in ventricular arrhythmias and significantly fewer morbid and mortal cardiac events (including episodes of worsening heart failure severe enough to prompt discontinuation of the study, myocardial infarction, and death). doxazosin was well tolerated, producing no major side effects and only a slightly higher frequency of minor treatment-related side effects compared with placebo (p = ns).
historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy. the performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery. from the mid- to late 1940s until the last 10 years, the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity. for reasons that are not clear, the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10% and in several centers, less than 5%. postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients. furthermore, a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected. seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation.
atrial fibrillation in the elderly: management update. non-valvular atrial fibrillation is associated with a markedly increased risk of embolic stroke in elderly persons. evidence is accumulating that anticoagulation with warfarin or aspirin may be effective in reducing this risk.
rigid fixation of internal orbital fractures. when large portions of the internal orbit are destroyed (two to four walls), standard bone-grafting techniques for immediate and late orbital reconstruction may not yield predictable eye position. critical bone support is most often deficient inferomedially. ct analysis of orbital volume in cases where eye position was unsatisfactory reveals that displacement of bone grafts is one mechanism of the unsatisfactory result. other mechanisms include undercorrection and bone-graft resorption. in order to minimize postoperative bone-graft displacement, titanium implants were used to span large defects in the internal orbit to provide a platform for bone-graft support. twenty-six implants were placed in immediate and 12 were placed in late orbital reconstructions. more reliable bone-graft position resulted. two late infections have occurred resulting in implant removal in a 3-year period.
covalent binding of oxidative biotransformation intermediates is associated with halothane hepatotoxicity in guinea pigs. in vivo covalent binding of halothane biotransformation-reactive intermediates to hepatic protein and lipid was examined in association with the subsequent development of hepatic necrosis in the guinea pig. oxidative halothane biotransformation was inhibited by the use of deuterated halothane, whereas reductive metabolism was enhanced by low inspired oxygen concentrations. male outbred hartley guinea pigs (n = 8) were exposed to either 1% (v/v) halothane or deuterated halothane--with a fractional inspired o2 concentration (fio2) of 0.40 or 0.10--for 4 h. livers removed from half of the animals immediately after anesthesia were evaluated for organic fluorine bound to protein and lipid. the remaining animals were evaluated for a hepatotoxic response up to 96 h after exposure. only guinea pigs that received 1% halothane at an fio2 of 0.40 had centrilobular necrosis develop with significantly increased plasma alanine aminotransferase activities. all other treatment conditions significantly reduced oxidative halothane biotransformation, as indicated by decreased plasma trifluoroacetic acid concentrations. these reductions were associated with a significant decrease in organic fluorine bound to hepatic proteins. an fio2 of 0.10 during halothane anesthesia significantly enhanced reductive biotransformation, as indicated by plasma fluoride ion concentrations. this was associated with a significant increase in organic fluoride bound to hepatic lipids. centrilobular necrosis did not develop under these conditions. thus, covalent binding to subcellular proteins by the trifluoroacetyl acid chloride intermediate generated by oxidative halothane biotransformation is implicated as a mechanism of centrilobular necrosis in guinea pigs. binding to lipids by reductive pathway generated free radicals does not appear to be involved in production of the lesion.
incidence and properties of renal masses and asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma detected by abdominal ultrasonography. renal ultrasonography was performed in 45,905 adults, including 41,364 without any signs suggesting urinary tract malignancies, 1,667 with microscopic hematuria only and 2,874 with some signs of malignancy. renal lesions were found in 355 adults (0.858%) in the asymptomatic, 39 (2.3%) in the microscopic hematuria and 75 (2.6%) in the symptomatic groups, respectively. renal cell carcinoma was found in 35 (7.5%) lesions: 19 (5.4%) in the asymptomatic, none in the microscopic hematuria and 16 (21.3%) in the symptomatic groups. a total of 47 patients, including 12 other renal cell carcinoma patients transferred from related hospitals, was grouped into 28 without and 19 with symptoms. primary tumor size and clinical stages were significantly smaller and lower, respectively, in the asymptomatic group than in the symptomatic group. radical nephrectomy was performed in all but 2 asymptomatic patients. the 5-year survival rates after nephrectomy were 94.7 and 60.9% for the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups, respectively (p less than 0.01). the results indicate that ultrasonography is a useful tool to detect low stage asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma at low cost.
idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss and postnatal viral labyrinthitis: a statistical comparison of temporal bone findings. although the cause of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss remains uncertain, a viral origin has been suggested in many cases on the basis of anamnestic microbiologic and pathologic data. twenty-two temporal bone specimens from 18 patients who during life suffered a sudden partial or complete sensorineural hearing loss were studied. on the basis of clinical data, these cases were assigned to one of three diagnostic categories, and the temporal bones were studied by light microscopy and serial section analysis. the implications of the histopathologic findings for the pathogenesis of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss are discussed.
extracolonic malignancies in inflammatory bowel disease. a population-based cohort with inflammatory bowel disease consisting of 4776 patients (3121 with ulcerative colitis and 1655 with crohn's disease) was followed for 1 to 50 years for the occurrence of malignant neoplasms. two hundred eighty-three cancers were observed versus 189.1 expected (standardized incidence ratio [sir] = 1.5, 95% confidence limits [cl] 1.3 to 1.7). one hundred seventy-eight extracolonic cancers were observed versus 168.8 expected (sir = 1.1, 95% cl 0.9 to 1.2). in crohn's disease and extensive ulcerative colitis, observed cases were close to those expected but in ulcerative proctitis, the relative risk of extracolonic cancers was close to significantly increased (sir = 1.3, 95% cl 1.0 to 1.7). squamous skin cancers after crohn's disease (sir = 5.5, 95% cl 2.0 to 11.9) and connective tissue cancers after ulcerative colitis (sir = 4.0, 95% cl 1.0 to 10.2) were significantly increased. those having extensive ulcerative colitis at diagnosis had an increased risk of brain cancers (sir = 2.4, 95% cl 1.0 to 4.6). patients with extensive ulcerative colitis had lower than expected risk of breast cancer (sir = 0.4, 95% cl 0.1 to 1.0).
epidermal nevus syndrome: a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly, gyral malformation, mental retardation, seizures, and facial hemihypertrophy. the epidermal nevus syndrome (ens) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems. from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations, we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies. associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12, mental retardation in 13 of 14, seizures in 16 of 17 (including 9 with infantile spasms), and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12. all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head, and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy. we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement. several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts, atrophy, porencephaly, and calcifications, which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage. given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients, we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions. the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly. while the cause of ens remains unknown, several observations suggest a somatic mutation.
a provider's view of prevention approaches in a prepaid group practice. kaiser permanente's health care delivery system and its efforts to integrate public health preventive medicine and curative medicine are described. the author advocates an increased focus on prepaid delivery systems like kaiser permanente as the best vehicle to achieve the full promise of health screening, health education, and life-style modification. because these systems have brought the proper incentives into alignment, prevention and health promotion have become effective tools to achieve cost containment goals. a number of kaiser permanente projects are highlighted that demonstrate integration of public health preventive medicine and curative medicine: the northern california region's uniform health appraisal examination, which is linked with health education and counseling; the colorado region's breast cancer screening program, which is expected to show a higher rate of early breast cancer detection than in the general population; cooperative efforts with two northern california towns to reduce smoking through a community-wide project; educational theatre programs aimed at early intervention and education of children before high-risk behaviors have become established life-style; and research projects that are possible because of an integrated program. also, several forces that could endanger integrated systems including cost control practices of employers and insurers, and public policy such as mandating specific benefits, are noted.
the neuromuscular pathology of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of l-tryptophan. we studied the lesions of skeletal muscle, peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of ems. perimyositis was severe in four, moderate in two, mild in three and absent in three cases. the lesions contained many eosinophils, t-helper cells, mast cells and activated macrophages. type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one, this was the only pathologic finding. severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies. indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs (two cases) and neurogenic atrophy (one case). phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one. fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one.
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia. a report of sixteen cases. the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee (total replacement arthroplasty) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed. the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients, stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients, and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients. the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters. of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination (mean duration of follow-up, sixty-three months), three patients had an excellent result, seven had a good result, and one had a fair result. of the five patients who were not available for functional testing, one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months, one had died of metastases at sixteen months, and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis.
doppler echocardiographic comparison of the carpentier and duran anuloplasty rings versus no ring after mitral valve repair for mitral regurgitation. to compare the hemodynamic results of different anuloplasty techniques of primary valve repair for mitral regurgitation, 122 patients were prospectively studied with doppler echocardiograms 5 to 10 days after operation. seventy-seven patients had mitral valve prolapse, 27 had coronary artery disease, 13 patients had rheumatic mitral valve lesions and 5 patients had infective endocarditis. forty-eight patients received the flexible duran ring, 46 received the more rigid carpentier ring and 28 patients received no ring. doppler echocardiography demonstrated a significant decrease in mitral valve area estimated by the pressure half-time method in patients who received either a carpentier (2.6 +/- 0.8 cm2) or duran ring (2.8 +/- 0.8 cm2) when compared with patients who received no ring (3.2 +/- 0.7 cm2) (p = 0.01). no significant differences were observed for peak transmitral diastolic velocity, peak transmitral diastolic gradient, or the grade of mitral regurgitation by color flow doppler mapping between patients with and without rings. the etiology of mitral disease and concomitant surgical procedures accompanying mitral valve repair did not significantly influence mitral valve area, peak velocity or peak gradient. these data suggest that carpentier and duran rings decrease the hemodynamic mitral valve area; however, the decrease in valve area is small and not associated with a clinically important increase in transvalvular gradient.
elevated insulin receptor content in human breast cancer. the growth of breast cancer cells is under the regulation of hormones, growth factors, and their receptors. in the present study, we have employed a new, sensitive, and specific radioimmunoassay for the direct measurement of insulin receptors in surgical specimens of breast cancers. in 159 specimens the insulin receptor content was 6.15 +/- 3.69 ng/0.1 mg protein. this value was more than sixfold higher than the mean value found in both 27 normal breast tissues obtained at total mastectomy (0.95 + 0.68, p less than 0.001) and in six normal specimens obtained from reduction mammoplasty (0.84 +/- 0.78, p less than 0.001). the insulin receptor content in breast cancer tissues was also higher than in any normal tissue investigated including liver (pezzino, v., v. papa, v. trischitta, a. brunetti, p.a. goodman, m.k. treutelaar, j.a. williams, b.a. maddux, r. vigneri, and i.d. goldfine, 1989. am. j. physiol. 257:e451-457). the insulin receptor in breast cancer retained its ability to both bind insulin and undergo insulin-induced tyrosine kinase activation. immunostaining of the specimens revealed that the insulin receptor was present in malignant epithelial cells, but was not detected in stromal and inflammatory cells. univariant analysis revealed that the insulin receptor content of the tumors correlated positively with tumor size (p = 0.014), histological grading (p = 0.030), and the estrogen receptor content (p = 0.035). there were no significant correlations between insulin receptor content and the age, body weight, menopausal status, and nodal involvement of the patients. these studies indicate, therefore, that the insulin receptor content is increased in breast cancers and raise the possibility that the insulin receptor may have a role in the biology of these tumors.
neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract. gastrointestinal motility is the function of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. it is controlled by both the intrinsic and extrinsic nerves of the gastrointestinal tract and, to a lesser degree, the gastrointestinal hormones. therefore, any abnormality of the above factors, theoretically, can cause gastrointestinal dysmotility. in a clinical situation, commonly seen is gastrointestinal dysmotility caused by either smooth muscle or intrinsic and extrinsic nerves dysfunction. diseases that cause smooth muscle dysfunction include familial visceral myopathies, nonfamilial visceral myopathies, collagen disease, muscular dystrophies, amyloidosis, thyroid disease, and so on. diseases that cause enteric nerve dysfunction include familial visceral neuropathies, nonfamilial visceral neuropathies, diabetes mellitus, chagas' disease, ganglioneuromatosis of the intestine, visceral neuropathy of carcinomatosis, parkinson's disease, and so on. the patients with neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract have a wide range of clinical manifestations regardless of the underlying cause. at one end of the spectrum, the patients may be asymptomatic, and at the other end of the spectrum, the patients may have functional obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract. plain abdominal x-rays, upper gastrointestinal (ugi) and small bowel x-rays, enteroclysis, barium enema, and manometric studies are useful for the work-up of these patients. enteroclysis is especially helpful in ruling out mechanical obstruction of the small intestine in patients with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive. there is no effective drug to improve gastrointestinal motility. surgery may be helpful in selected cases of severe gastrointestinal dysmotility.
diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible: a new concept of its etiology. diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible is a disease of unknown etiology. the clinical and radiographic findings suggest an infectious origin, but bacteriologic and histologic findings do not support this concept. analysis of clinical symptoms, localization of the condition, and posttreatment findings in a group of 27 patients suggest a chronic tendoperiostitis due to muscular overuse as an etiologic factor in diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible. this hypothesis was supported by the initial results of muscle relaxation treatment in 13 of these patients.
integrated magnetic resonance imaging and phosphorus spectroscopy of soft tissue tumors. eighteen patients with soft tissue masses underwent integrated magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and phosphorus spectroscopy (31p-mrs) to evaluate benign and malignant tumor morphology and metabolism. spectra from soft tissue tumors had a significantly higher proportion of phosphate in the low-energy portion of the 31p spectrum (p less than 0.001) with a concomitant decrease in phosphocreatine (p less than 0.01) compared with 31p spectra from normal muscle. malignant tumors had a mean ph of 7.35 +/- 0.13 which was greater than that of muscle tissue with a mean ph of 7.08 +/- 0.07 (p less than 0.001). all tumors had greater relative levels of phosphomonoesters, inorganic phosphate, and phosphodiesters compared with those in muscle tissue but considerable variability among tumors was noted due to tumor size, extent of tumor necrosis, and muscle contamination. integrated mri/mrs studies are necessary to provide exact localization of the tumor and a more correct interpretation of the 31p-mrs data.
injuries to the cervical spine causing vertebral artery trauma: case reports. in four patients with lesions of the vertebral artery resulting from cervical spine injury, two were due to unilateral facet dislocation and two to fractures of the dens. there was one arterial occlusion with minor vertebrobasilar symptoms, and an arterial lesion with thrombosis causing embolic occlusion of the basilar artery with lethal outcome. in one patient a fresh fracture of the dens caused dislocation of c1/2 with reversible occlusion of the left and stenosis of the right vertebral artery, resulting in unconsciousness. in a patient with pseudarthrosis of the dens an aneurysm of the vertebral artery could be detected. cerebellar or cerebral symptoms associated with cervical spine injury should be investigated by vertebral angiography because vertebral arterial injury may be more common than suspected and may simulate traumatic brain damage.
acute complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for total occlusion. the incidence of major complications after percutaneous coronary angioplasty (ptca) of a totally occluded artery was assessed retrospectively. a total of 1649 ptca procedures were analyzed. after exclusion of procedures for acute myocardial infarction or total occlusion that resulted from restenosis, 90 patients were selected. forty-four patients (49%) had stable angina and 46 (51%) had unstable angina. the estimated duration of occlusion was 87 +/- 78 days in patients with stable angina, as compared with 10 +/- 8 days in patients with unstable angina (p less than 0.001). abrupt vessel closure during ptca occurred only in patients with unstable angina (0% versus 17%, p less than 0.05). the major complication rate was 2.5% in the stable angina group, and 20% in unstable angina group (p less than 0.01). this rate was also significantly higher than the complication rate of 8% observed in 442 procedures that were performed during the same period in patients with the unstable angina and nonocclusive stenosis (p less than 0.01). patients with unstable angina who undergo ptca of a totally occluded artery represent a subset of high risk for major complications.
clinical management issues in males with sex chromosomal mosaicism and discordant phenotype/sex chromosomal patterns. the recent availability of y dna probes has made it possible to identify two forms of 46,xx male syndrome: y dna positive and y dna negative. the y dna positive male results from a x;y translocation with a low recurrence risk; the y dna negative males are due to a mutation with a high recurrence risk. 46,xx males and mosaic forms are phenotypically indistinguishable. a review of the case histories for 11 individuals indicates that affected males have highly variable genital and nongenital phenotypes. physical findings may be clearly apparent or nonexistent. with the exception of external genitalia, the basis for this variability is unknown. it may be related to differences in y chromatin expression as the result of variable inactivation of the x chromosomes, or to the existence of minor deletions or point mutations secondary to an exchange of genetic material. common and uncommon clinical problems in these individuals require evaluation and follow-up care that is provided through a cooperative, interdisciplinary approach.
alternation of gastric mucosal glycoprotein (lectin-binding pattern) in gastric mucosa in stress. a light and electron microscopic study. gastric mucosal cells of the rat glandular stomach were studied by light and electron microscopic procedures by use of lectins in the development of acute gastric mucosal lesions. effects of the h2-receptor antagonist sofalcone (2'carboxymethoxy-4,4'-bis 3-methyl-2) and truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty on lectin binding sites and distribution were also investigated. biotinylated lectins in combination with abc (avidin-biotinyl peroxidase complex) method were used for light and horseradish peroxidase (hrp)-labeled lectins for electron microscopic studies. gastric mucosal cells showed the specific binding pattern for each lectin by light microscopy. especially, binding sites and distribution of peanut agglutinin (pna) were characteristic after induction of stress, truncal vagotomy, and administration of each drug. staining and distribution increased in the gastric mucosa upward and downward after that. in electron microscopic studies, pna strongly stained the membranes of the intracellular secretory canaliculi of a parietal cell. these results suggested that alternation of binding sites and distribution was regulated by change of gastric mucosal blood flow and of acidity in the parietal cells. therefore, increase of glycoconjugate distribution is supposed to be a possibility of cytoprotective effect for a change of environment in the parietal cells.
prevention and changing demographics. the underserved and cancer. this paper illustrates the complexity of the "cancer control in the underserved" problem, especially as it is affected currently, and will be in the future, by the multiple demographic changes in the united states. it does so by extensively quoting from four rather different articles by authors from a variety of backgrounds in health, management, and economics. another issue is that although the articles quoted refer mainly to secondary and tertiary prevention, they do apply equally to primary prevention and health promotion. furthermore, the twin issues of priority and ethnic/cultural differences need to be addressed insofar as they affect health risks, risk reduction efforts, early diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation/disability reduction. finally, the point is made that social and structural change of this magnitude cannot occur in the health care system and society at large without the allocation of discrete private and public sector resources.
paraileostomy hernia: a clinical and radiological study. forty-six patients who underwent colectomy with end ileostomy for ulcerative colitis (n = 33) or crohn's disease (n = 13) have been reviewed for paraileostomy hernia (pih) formation 1-16 years after surgery. pih developed in 13 of these patients (28 per cent) and was not related to the original disease or excessive weight gain. twenty-eight patients underwent limited computed tomography (ct) scanning of the stomal region. eight of these had a clinically detectable pih, which was demonstrated on ct. a further two patients had pih demonstrated on ct which was not detected by clinical examination. the rate of pih was similar where the stoma emerged lateral to the rectus abdominis muscle (six out of 16 patients, 37 per cent) to where the stoma emerged through the rectus (four out of 12 patients, 33 per cent). recurrence following operative repair of pih was common. pih occurs more frequently than previously supposed. ct can detect pih and may be useful in evaluating a patient with stoma-related symptoms for occult pih formation.
expression of transcobalamin ii receptors by human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells. plasma membrane receptors for the serum cobalamin-binding protein transcobalamin ii (tcii) were identified on human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells using immunoaffinity-purified human tcii labeled with [57co]cyanocobalamin. the bmax values for tcii receptors on proliferating k562 and hl-60 cells were 4,500 and 2,700 per cell, respectively. corresponding dissociation constants (kd) were 8.0 x 10(-11) mol/l and 9.0 x 10(-11) mol/l. rabbit tcii also bound to k562 and hl-60 cells but with slightly reduced affinities. calcium was required for the binding of transcobalamin ii to k562 cells. brief treatment of these cells with trypsin resulted in almost total loss of surface binding activity. after removal of trypsin, surface receptors for tcii slowly reappeared, reaching pretrypsin treatment densities only after 24 hours. reappearance of receptors was blocked by cycloheximide. tcii receptor densities on k562 and hl-60 cells correlated inversely with the concentration of cobalamin in the culture medium. this suggests that intracellular stores of cobalamin may affect the expression of transcobalamin receptors. nonproliferating stationary-phase k562 cells had low tcii receptor densities (less than 1,200 receptors/cell). however, the density of tcii receptors increased substantially when cells were subcultured in fresh medium. up-regulation of receptor expression coincided with increased 3h-thymidine incorporation, which preceded the resumption of cellular proliferation as measured by cell density. in the presence of cytosine arabinoside, which induces erythroid differentiation, k562 cells down-regulated expression of tcii receptors. when hl-60 cells were subcultured in fresh medium containing dimethysulfoxide to induce granulocytic differentiation, the up-regulation of tcii receptors was suppressed. this event occurred well before a diminution of 3h-thymidine incorporation and cessation of proliferation. thus, changes in the regulation of expression of tcii receptors correlate with both the proliferative and differentiation status of cells.
molecular evolution of inversions in drosophila pseudoobscura: the amylase gene region. the amylase region of the third chromosome of drosophila pseudoobscura has been cloned and localized to cytological band 73a. it is contained within a series of highly polymorphic inversions and serves as a convenient tool for a molecular evolutionary analysis of the inverted gene arrangements. amylase in d. pseudoobscura is a family of three genes, and some chromosomes have deletions for one or two of them. two overlapping clones covering 26 kilobases were isolated and used as probes to survey dna restriction map polymorphism among 28 lines, representing five of the major inversion types found in natural populations, as well as single chromosomes from the closely related species drosophila persimilis and drosophila miranda. restriction-site differences are considerably greater among the various gene arrangements than among chromosomes with the same gene arrangement. clustering the restriction map haplotypes yielded a dendrogram concordant with the phylogeny generated independently from cytogenetic considerations. the inversion polymorphism is estimated to be about 2 million years old.
receptor imaging: application to mr imaging of liver cancer. a new contrast agent for magnetic resonance (mr) imaging, directed to asialoglycoprotein (asg) receptors on hepatocytes, was used for detection of liver cancer in rats. ultrasmall superparamagnetic (mean size, 12 nm) particles of iron oxide (uspios) were targeted to asg receptors by coating particles with arabinogalactan (ag). liver t2 relaxation times decreased more effectively after a single intravenous administration of ag-uspio than after an equal dose of a conventional superparamagnetic liver mr contrast agent (ami-25; mean size, 72 nm). receptor affinity studies demonstrated that receptor-mediated attachment and subsequent cellular endocytosis do not occur in primary malignant (hepatocellular carcinoma) or metastatic (adenocarcinoma) tumors, because the surface asg receptors are lost during malignant dedifferentiation. in vitro relaxation and in vivo mr imaging experiments of liver tumors show that targeting uspio to hepatocytes rather than to the mononuclear phagocytic system allows a considerable dose reduction, increases tumor-liver contrast, and potentially allows distinction of asg-positive (benign hepatocellular) and asg-negative (malignant hepatocellular) tumors.
preventing stroke by the modification of risk factors. epidemiologic research has revealed the major risk factors in cerebrovascular disease. this review will concentrate on three important risk factors: elevated blood pressure, the most common and important, since it is responsible for up to 70% of all strokes; raised cholesterol; and smoking. these factors are important not only because they increase the risk of stroke, but also because they are amenable to modification by drugs, diet, or other interventions. strategies to avoid stroke can either 1) try to produce substantial reductions, usually with drugs, in the level of the risk factor in the few individuals in the population with high levels (the "high-risk" approach), or 2) try to produce modest reductions in the level of the risk factor in every individual in the population, usually not with drugs but with lifestyle modification (the "mass" approach). the prevention of stroke could best be achieved through continuing medical efforts to deal with high-risk individuals and through political strategies to encourage a healthier lifestyle in the population as a whole.
results of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd) is complicated by the diffuse, obstructive, calcific arteriopathy that makes anastomotic technique especially critical. furthermore, decreased resistance to infection and impaired wound healing produced by host-factor deficiencies such as diabetes mellitus, hypoalbuminemia, uremia, and immunosuppression produce additional obstacles to successful limb salvage. this report summarizes our experience with distal arterial bypass procedures in these patients. a total of 32 bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage in 24 patients (17 diabetic) during a period of 5 years. the operative mortality rate was 6%. during the same period, 635 infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed by the in situ technique in patients without esrd. primary bypass patency was comparable in both groups at 24 months (92% vs 90%). in the group with esrd, overall limb salvage was 83% at 2 years. life-table analysis of bypass patency and limb salvage was thought not to be appropriate in the population with esrd beyond 2 years because of the increased mortality rate (38%; 9/24) during this interval. it is important that limb salvage was achieved in diabetic patients with esrd in the presence of extensive foot gangrene or ischemic ulceration. revascularization should be considered strongly for limb salvage in all patients in this difficult population.
in vitro model of intestinal crypt abscess. a novel neutrophil-derived secretagogue activity. in order to model crypt abscesses, a histological finding which correlates with disease activity in intestinal inflammation, human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (pmn) were layered onto monolayers of the human intestinal epithelial cell line t84, a crypt-like epithelium which is capable of cl- secretion. such pmn-epithelial interaction had no substantial effect on monolayer integrity or function. however, when pmn were stimulated by conditions including those present naturally in the human colonic lumen, monolayers responded with a bumetanide-sensitive short circuit current (isc) indicative of cl- secretion, the basis of secretory diarrhea. this isc response was induced by a neutrophil-derived secretagogue (nds), which was only active when applied to the luminal surface of monolayers and did not require pmn-epithelial contact. nds activity is resistant to boiling, acid, and trypsin and passes a 500 nominal mol wt cutoff filter. nds activity is not secondary to the respiratory burst products o2- or h2o2 and does not appear to be a myeloperoxidase product. we speculate nds elicited cl- secretion may contribute to the secretory diarrhea seen in patients with intestinal inflammation and crypt abscesses.
differential protective effects of halothane and isoflurane against hypoxic and reoxygenation injury in the isolated guinea pig heart. the authors investigated the effects of halothane (hal) and isoflurane (iso) on cardiac depression produced by global hypoxia and the recovery of function following reoxygenation is isolated guinea pig hearts perfused with krebs' solution at constant pressure. isovolumetric left ventricular systolic (lvsp) and end-diastolic pressures (lvedp) were measured by placing a saline filled, latex balloon into the left ventricle. bipolar electrodes were placed in the right atrium and right ventricle for measurements of heart rate (hr), atrioventricular conduction time (avct), and determination of the incidence and severity of dysrhythmias occurring during hypoxia and reoxygenation. hearts were divided into three groups: control (n = 20), halothane (n = 12), and isoflurane (n = 13). all hearts were exposed in sequence to oxygenated perfusate (po2, 530 mmhg), moderately hypoxic perfusate (po2, 91 mmhg) for 30 min, and then to oxygenated perfusate for 40 min. halothane (1%, 0.4 mm) or isoflurane (1.5%, 0.5 mm) were administered 10 min before hypoxia, during hypoxia, and during the first 10 min of reoxygenation. exposure to halothane and isoflurane before hypoxia produced a 14 and 11% decrease in heart rate, a 32 and 23% increase in avct, and a 47 and 28% decrease in lvsp (all p less than or equal to 0.001) for halothane and isoflurane, respectively, and no significant change in lvedp. during hypoxia, hr decreased and avct increased similarly in both groups. left ventricular systolic pressure (lvsp) decreased sharply with a narrowing of the prehypoxic differences among the groups. in the control and isoflurane groups, lvedp increased during hypoxia but remained unchanged in the halothane group.
nitrite from inflammatory cells--a cancer risk factor in ulcerative colitis? elevated levels of luminal nitrite and a lowered luminal ph were found in 77 percent of patients with acute ulcerative colitis. no luminal nitrite was found in healthy control subjects. nitrites are a secretory product of activated macrophages and neutrophils of the lamina propria, whereas the lowered luminal ph is due to diminished bicarbonate formation by impaired colonocytes. a hypothesis is put forward that nitrites, lowered ph, and bacterial amines are conducive to formation of carcinogenic n-nitroso compounds, which reflect a cancer risk in patients with ulcerative colitis dependent on the type and extent of inflammatory cell activation as well as metabolic impairment of colonic epithelial cells.
primary prevention of cancer. the case for comprehensive school health education. comprehensive school health education plays an important role in the primary prevention of cancer because so many of the health habits relating to cancer and other diseases have their onset early in life. a comprehensive health education program should begin early in life. such education must be multifactorial from kindergarten through high school, should involve annual health screening, must be assessed annually, and is most effective when coordinated by a full-time health education teacher. those concerned about the many problems of health behavior in our society should insist that such programs become mandatory in every state in this nation.
edwards' syndrome after the replacement of cryopreserved-thawed embryos. a case of edwards' syndrome after the replacement of frozen-thawed embryos is reported. the presence of cardiac abnormalities and limb deformities raised the suspicion of chromosomal abnormality. the diagnosis of trisomy 18 was made by cytogenetic analysis of fetal blood from the umbilical vein. the chromosomal nondisjunction might have been spontaneous or because of freezing and thawing. if it occurred as a result of freezing and thawing, it is more likely that this was at the first cleavage division rather than the second meiotic division because the embryos were frozen at the late pronuclear stage. unfortunately, there were no karyotypic markers in the couple's chromosomes to time the nondisjunction. the wisdom of using donor oocytes in an ovum donation program from patients with long-standing infertility is questioned.
intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia resulting from compound heterozygosity of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase mutations. four subjects with thermolabile methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) were discovered among 16 "obligate" heterozygotes for severe mthfr deficiency and their family members. all four subjects had less than 25% of normal mean mthfr specific activity in lymphocyte extracts. three of them with normal serum folate and cyanocobalamin had intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia, and one with high serum folate and cyanocobalamin had no excessive accumulation of serum homocysteine. the biochemical features in these four subjects are distinguishable from subjects homozygous for the thermolabile mthfr, whose specific activity is approximately 50% of the normal mean, and from heterozygotes for severe mthfr deficiency, in whom the enzyme is thermostable and has a specific activity of about 50% of the normal mean. we propose that these four subjects are genetic compounds of the allele for the severe mutation and the allele for thermolabile mutation of the mthfr gene. it is postulated that subjects with this genetic compound are more susceptible to the development of intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia despite normal folate and b12 levels. nonetheless, hyperhomocysteinemia due to this compound heterozygosity is correctable by oral folic acid therapy.
stages of t-cell receptor protein expression in t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. in this study five monoclonal antibodies (moabs) to t-cell receptor (tcr) proteins (wt31, alpha f1, beta f1, tcr delta-1 and delta tcs-1) were used to identify discrete maturative stages in 40 cases of t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (t-all). these moabs reacted exclusively with cd3+ t cells and did not label b-lineage and myeloid cells. in 17 of the 40 t-all cases studied the leukemic blasts lacked membrane and cytoplasmic tcr chains (group i). in 12 cases cells did not have membrane cd3/tcr but expressed cytoplasmic tcr proteins heterogenously: nine cases had cytoplasmic tcr beta chains (beta f1+, alpha f1-; group ii), one case had cytoplasmic tcr alpha chains (alpha f1+, beta f1-; group iii), and two cases were labeled by both alpha f1 and beta f1 moabs (group iv). the remaining 11 cases were mcd3+: nine were tcr alpha beta+ (group va) and two exhibited tcr gamma delta (tcr delta-1+, delta tcs-1+; group vb). the analysis of the tcr beta, -gamma, and -delta gene configurations in 23 of the 40 t-alls showed that: (1) the lack of tcr protein expression was due to the lack of tcr gene rearrangements only in one of nine cases; (2) five of five tcr beta+, tcr alpha- cases studied had germline tcr alpha genes (ie, no detectable tcr delta gene deletions); (3) seven of eight cases with tcr delta gene deletions expressed tcr alpha proteins, whereas in 12 of 20 of the t-alls with tcr beta gene rearrangements the synthesis of the corresponding protein occurred; only 2 of 16 cases with rearranged tcr delta genes expressed tcr delta chains. the t-all categories identified with anti-tcr moabs did not have additional characteristic phenotypic patterns and may correspond to the normal stages of t-cell development more precisely than those defined by other differentiation antigens.
metastatic carcinoma to the retina. clinicopathologic findings in two cases. two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported. one patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina; this was confirmed postmortem. the other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism. the diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen.
progress in psychosocial and behavioral cancer research. the need for enabling strategies. a major component of the second workshop on methodology in behavioral and psychosocial cancer research was a discussion of enabling strategies, that is, strategies by which future goals and needs in the area of psychosocial and behavioral oncology might be accomplished. this report describes and comments on the discussion that took place at a special plenary session at which representatives from four funding agencies, the american cancer society, national cancer institute, national institute of mental health, and national science foundation, presented their views and their agencies' programs for promoting research in psychosocial and behavioral oncology. it is concluded that much progress has been made in the field and that strategies are in place for ensuring continued progress. however, suggestions are also made for new strategies that might accelerate and broaden that progress.
hyperprolactinemia increases and hypoprolactinemia decreases tyrosine hydroxylase messenger ribonucleic acid levels in the arcuate nuclei, but not the substantia nigra or zona incerta. the effects of experimentally produced hypoprolactinemia and hyperprolactinemia on tyrosine hydroxylase (th) mrna signal levels were examined in dopaminergic neurons ovariectomized rats. th mrna signal levels and relative th quantity in the arcuate nuclei, zona incerta, and substantia nigra were evaluated by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, respectively. the catalytic activity of th in the stalk-median eminence (sme) was determined from the in vitro rate of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (dopa) accumulation after inhibiting dopa decarboxylase with brocresine. chronic administration of bromocriptine (bromo), a dopamine (da) agonist, for 3 days reduced circulating rat prl (rprl) levels compared to those in the vehicle-treated controls. bromo treatment decreased th mrna signal levels in the arcuate nuclei, the intensity of th immunostaining in the arcuate-median eminence area, and the rate of dopa accumulation in the sme. concomitant administration of ovine prl (oprl) reversed the effects of bromo on th, resulting in markedly increased th mrna signal levels, intensity of th immunostaining, and rate of dopa accumulation. treatment with oprl by itself for 3 days increased th mrna signal levels in the arcuate nuclei and th activity in the sme, compared to vehicle. chronic treatment with haloperidol, a da antagonist, increased circulating levels of endogenous rprl and increased th activity in the sme to values similar to those after oprl treatment. however, in contrast to oprl, mrna levels in the arcuate nuclei of haloperidol-treated rats were similar to levels in vehicle-treated animals. to evaluate whether the effect of prl on th was species specific, oprl or rprl was continuously infused into the jugular vein using an osmotic minipump. th mrna levels in the arcuate nuclei were elevated above control levels by either oprl or rprl administration. th mrna levels in the da perikarya located in the zona incerta and substantia nigra were not altered by treatment with a da agonist, a da antagonist, or prl. these results indicate that hypoprolactinemia or hyperprolactinemia can selectively reduce or augment, respectively, th mrna levels in the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons. the alterations in th mrna content probably contribute to the decrease or increase in th activity associated with hypoprolactinemia or hyperprolactinemia, respectively.
integrated magnetic resonance imaging and phosphorus spectroscopy of soft tissue tumors. eighteen patients with soft tissue masses underwent integrated magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and phosphorus spectroscopy (31p-mrs) to evaluate benign and malignant tumor morphology and metabolism. spectra from soft tissue tumors had a significantly higher proportion of phosphate in the low-energy portion of the 31p spectrum (p less than 0.001) with a concomitant decrease in phosphocreatine (p less than 0.01) compared with 31p spectra from normal muscle. malignant tumors had a mean ph of 7.35 +/- 0.13 which was greater than that of muscle tissue with a mean ph of 7.08 +/- 0.07 (p less than 0.001). all tumors had greater relative levels of phosphomonoesters, inorganic phosphate, and phosphodiesters compared with those in muscle tissue but considerable variability among tumors was noted due to tumor size, extent of tumor necrosis, and muscle contamination. integrated mri/mrs studies are necessary to provide exact localization of the tumor and a more correct interpretation of the 31p-mrs data.
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium, a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) recently released in the united states, was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients, with one associated death. signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug. the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities. in one patient, fatal, fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug. review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy. it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. careful patient monitoring is advised, and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop.
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989. we describe our pathologic study of skin, fascial, and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy, histochemistry, and electron microscopy. a perivascular, lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis, fascia, and skeletal muscle. lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen. ultrastructurally, capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present. this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome.
restenosis after balloon angioplasty. a practical proliferative model in porcine coronary arteries. a model of proliferative human restenosis was developed in domestic pigs by using deep injury to the coronary arterial media. metal wire coils were delivered percutaneously to the coronary arteries of 11 pigs with an oversized, high-pressure (14 atm) balloon and were left in place for times ranging from 28 to 70 days. during placement, the balloon expanded the coils and delivered them securely within the arterial lumen. light microscopic examination of the vessels confirmed fracture of the internal elastic lamina by the coil. an extensive proliferative response occurred in 10 of the 11 pigs and was associated with a luminal area narrowing of at least 50% in all but one pig. the histopathologic features of the proliferative response were identical to those observed in human cases of restenosis after angioplasty. immunohistochemical studies confirmed the prominence of smooth muscle cells in the proliferative tissue. a similar response was obtained in two of five porcine coronary arteries in which balloon inflation only was performed, without coil implant. this model is practical and inexpensive and closely mimics the proliferative portion of human restenosis both grossly and microscopically. thus, it may be useful for understanding human restenosis and for testing therapies aimed at preventing restenosis after balloon angioplasty or other coronary interventional procedures.
a risk of malignancy index incorporating ca 125, ultrasound and menopausal status for the accurate preoperative diagnosis of ovarian cancer. age, ultrasound score, menopausal status, a clinical impression score and serum ca 125 level were assessed to see how they could best distinguish between patients with benign (n = 101) and malignant (n = 42) pelvic masses. each criteria used alone provided statistically significant discrimination. the most useful individual criteria were a serum ca 125 level of 30 u/ml (sensitivity 81%, specificity 75%) and an ultrasound score of 2 (sensitivity 71%, specificity 83%). three criteria could be combined in a risk of malignancy index (rmi) which is simply calculated using the product of the serum ca 125 level (u/ml), the ultrasound scan result (expressed as a score of 0, 1 or 3) and the menopausal status (1 if premenopausal and 3 if postmenopausal). this index was statistically virtually as effective a discriminant between cancer and benign lesions as more formal methods. using an rmi cut-off level of 200, the sensitivity was 85% and the specificity was 97%. patients with an rmi score of greater than 200 had, on average, 42 times the background risk of cancer and those with a lower value 0.15 times the background risk.
biomechanical evaluation of lumbar spinal stability after graded facetectomies. in an in vitro experiment using fresh human lumbar functional spinal units, the effects of the division of the posterior ligaments (consisting of the supraspinous/interspinous ligaments) and graded facetectomies were investigated. the graded facetectomies consisted of unilateral and bilateral medial facetectomies, and unilateral and bilateral total facetectomies. six kinds of moments were applied and ranges of motion (rom) and neutral zones (nz) were determined three-dimensionally by stereophotogrammetric methods. range of motion was not affected by the division of the supraspinous/interspinous ligaments for all load modes. in flexion, rom increased slightly after unilateral medial facetectomy. in right axial rotation, rom increased after left unilateral total facetectomy. range of motion was not affected, even by bilateral total facetectomies, in extension and lateral bendings. this study suggested that medial facetectomy does not affect lumbar spinal stability, and conversely, total facetectomy, even created unilaterally, makes the lumbar spine unstable.
inferior vena caval filter thrombi: evaluation with intravascular us. a 20-mhz intravascular ultrasound (us) transducer inside a percutaneously inserted catheter was used to evaluate inferior vena caval (ivc) filters for thrombi in vitro and in vivo. six different ivc filters were studied with intravascular us in a saline-filled model. each filter had a characteristic, recognizable us pattern. experimental thrombi as small as 0.5 cm3 were easily detected. intravascular us was used clinically 25 times to evaluate the ivc in 23 patients with 24 ivc filters. positive-contrast cavograms were available for comparison in all 25 cases. in 13 cases, no thrombi were identified in the filter or ivc with either intravascular us or cavography; in five of 12 cases with thrombi, intravascular us and cavography demonstrated the thrombi equally well. in six cases, intravascular us was superior to cavography in detection or delineation of thrombus in the ivc or filter. intravascular us was considered superior to external duplex us in evaluation of caval thrombi in all 21 cases available for comparison. no complications from intravascular us were noted.
effects of recombinant human interleukin-3 on human hematopoietic progenitor and precursor cells in vivo. dna-synthesis rates and concentrations of bone marrow (bm) and peripheral blood (pb) progenitor cells were studied in 22 patients treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 (rhil3) as part of a clinical phase i/ii study. recombinant hil3 at doses of 60 to 500 micrograms/m2 was administered by subcutaneous bolus injection for 15 days to 13 patients with solid tumors and preserved hematopoietic function and to nine patients with bone marrow failure, including five with myelodysplastic syndromes. following treatment with rhil3, the percentage of actively cycling bm erythroid (bfu-e) and multilineage (cfu-gemm) progenitors in patients with preserved hematopoietic function increased from 16% to 36% (p less than .05) and from 10% to 40% (p less than .01), respectively. the dna-synthesis rates of early and late granulocyte macrophage progenitor cells increased from 11% to 26% (cfu-gm day 14; p less than .02) and from 13% to 30% (cfu-gm day 7; p less than .05). there was an increase in bm cellularity from 37% to 58%, and of the myeloid to erythroid ratio from 1.4 to 3.2, while the concentration of marrow progenitors on a per cell basis was unchanged or slightly decreased. the frequencies of blast cells in the bm were unchanged. mean levels of pb cfu-gm day 14 and cfu-gemm were 100% and 72% above baseline values after 7 days of rhil3 but only 25% and 28% above initial levels at the end of treatment. peripheral blood bfu-e were reduced in the majority of patients with normal marrow after both 7 and 15 days of rhil3. no augmentation of circulating bfu-e and cfu-gemm was seen in 5 patients with mds who had few or no pb bfu-e or cfu-gemm initially. total leukocyte, neutrophil, and eosinophil counts increased significantly (p less than .01) in 21 of 22 patients with a peak response after a median of 13 days of rhil3. while a small increase in reticulocytes was not accompanied by an elevation of the hemoglobin or hematocrit, platelet counts increased by 50% in patients with preserved marrow function. thus, rhil3 induces a multilineage response in vivo, apparently by stimulating proliferation of multipotential and lineage-restricted progenitors. it remains to be determined whether this is due to direct or indirect effects on the progenitor cells.
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm masquerading as occlusion of the inferior vena cava. inflammatory aneurysms are an uncommon disorder that represent between 5% and 10% of abdominal aortic aneurysms. their presentation is often variable and may include pain and obstruction of adjacent anatomic structures. this report describes a 68-year-old man who sought treatment after insidious onset of progressive bilateral lower extremity edema over a 6-month period. noninvasive studies were suggestive of bilateral iliac vein occlusion, and a venogram showed a nearly obstructed vena cava from external compression. a ct scan showed a thick-walled infrarenal abdominal aneurysm. at exploration an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm was found. because of the presence of dense inflammatory changes surrounding the aneurysm and extending into the pelvis, the surgical procedure of choice was an aortobifemoral bypass graft done with dacron. the aneurysmal wall was debrided from the vena cava. his postoperative course was uneventful, his edema resolved, and follow-up noninvasive studies were normal. postoperative venography showed resolution of the extrinsic compression of the vena cava.
role of calcium and the calcium channel in the initiation and maintenance of ventricular fibrillation. the cellular events during the initiation and maintenance of ventricular fibrillation (vf) are poorly understood. we developed a nonischemic, isolated, perfused rabbit langendorff preparation in which sustained vf could be induced by alternating current (ac) and which allowed changes in perfusate composition. we also used na(+)-k+ pump inhibition (10 microm ouabain or k(+)-free perfusate) to induce vf. ac stimulation or na(+)-k+ pump inhibition always initiated vf. calcium channel blockade by verapamil or nitrendipine uniformly inhibited the initiation of vf in both models. during na(+)-k+ pump inhibition, 1) vf was prevented by calcium channel blockade, despite evidence of ca2+ overload, and 2) abolition of spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum-generated cytosolic ca2+ oscillations by ryanodine or na+ channel blockade with tetrodotoxin did not prevent vf initiation. lowering extracellular [ca2+] to 80 microm uniformly prevented the initiation of vf due to na(+)-k+ pump inhibition but not that due to ac stimulation. vf maintenance also was studied using 1) reduction in perfusate [ca2+], 2) blockade of ca2+ channels, or 3) electrical defibrillation. decreasing the perfusate [ca2+] to 80 microm resulted in defibrillation during vf whether induced by ac or na(+)-k+ pump inhibition. verapamil or nitrendipine also resulted in defibrillation regardless of the initiation method. electrical defibrillation was successful only in ac-induced vf. the results demonstrate that vf can be initiated and maintained in a nonischemic rabbit langendorff preparation. the data suggest that increases in slow channel ca2+ flux, as opposed to increases in cytosolic ca2+ per se, were necessary for the initiation and maintenance of vf. the data, however, do not exclude an important role for cytosolic ca2+ in the modulation of vf.
modern pharmacotherapy of migraine. rectal ergotamine and naproxen are the major candidates for the ad hoc treatment of migraine attacks; for particularly dramatic episodes, intravenous dhe with prochlorperazine is the author's preference. for long-term stabilization, after simpler measures fail, valproate appears to be a major addition to migraine therapy.
role of hypoxic drive in regulation of postapneic ventilation during sleep in patients with obstructive sleep apnea. to elucidate the role of chemoresponsiveness in determining postapneic ventilation in sleep-disordered periodic breathing, we measured ventilatory response associated with apnea-induced arterial oxygen desaturation during sleep and compared it with the awake hypoxic ventilatory response (hvr) in 12 male patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa). awake hvr was measured at a slight hypocapnic level (end-tidal pco2 = 37 +/- 1 mm hg, mean +/- sem), and separately at a pco2 of 45 mm hg. during non-rem sleep both the ventilatory rate (ve) and the average respiratory frequency (f) in the ventilatory phase between apneic episodes were inversely correlated with the nadir of arterial oxygen saturation (nsao2) produced by the preceding apneic phase in all patients (ve versus nsao2; r = -0.74 +/- 0.03, mean +/- sem; f versus nsao2, r = -0.56 +/- 0.04). the average tidal volume (vt) also was correlated with nsao2 in 10 of the patients (r = -0.56 +/- 0.05). during rem sleep ve was correlated with nsao2 in 11 patients (r = -0.75 +/- 0.03, p less than 0.02). the response of ve to nsao2 (delta ve/delta nsao2) varied widely among the patients (non-rem, 0.52 to 2.16; rem, 0.29 to 1.44 l/min/%) and was significantly lower during rem than non-rem sleep (p less than 0.01). the value of delta ve/delta nsao2 during both non-rem and rem sleep was correlated with awake hvr at an end-tidal pco2 of 45 mm hg (non-rem, r = 0.83, p less than 0.02; rem, r = 0.76, p less than 0.05) but not with that at the hypocapnic level.
complications of nasotracheal intubation in neonates, infants and children: a review of 4 years' experience in a children's hospital. a computerized database was set up to study the incidence and outcome of complications of nasotracheal intubation in a paediatric hospital. we studied 2953 intensive care admissions over a 4-yr period. the overall complication rate was 8%. accidental extubation and tube blockage were the most frequent events, accounting for a mean of 3.5% and 2.6% of the complications per year, respectively. complications were more common in smaller children and there were differences between fields of intensive care. none of the complications was fatal or resulted in serious sequelae. none of the children in the study showed clinical symptoms of acquired subglottic stenosis before discharge from hospital, and none has been readmitted for this condition subsequently.
superficial femoral artery as inflow for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery. we have obtained long term follow-up on 58 patients in whom the superficial femoral artery was used as a donor site for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery. the indication for the reconstructive procedure was intermittent claudication 36%, rest pain 34%, and gangrene 26%. all patients had angiographic evidence of a patent proximal superficial femoral artery and many had relative indications for short bypass such as limited saphenous vein availability or compromised medical condition. there was a cumulative patency rate of 79% by life table method for the series with a six year follow-up. we have observed that the superficial femoral artery is a satisfactory inflow site for proximal popliteal bypass grafts in selected patients. the procedure can maximize use of a limited segment of vein with minimal operative time and morbidity. inflow stenosis can be revised or long bypass procedures can be offered in the event of graft failure.
adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease. the pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia. with proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management, adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease. we review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy. indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children. no complications resulted from any of these procedures, and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days. the principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30%. though a prospective, multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease, balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications, our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease.
radiotherapy alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nonresectable non-small-cell lung cancer: first analysis of a randomized trial in 353 patients. we report the results observed in a large, randomized study that compared the effects of radiotherapy alone (the standard therapy) with those of a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in nonresectable squamous cell and large-cell lung carcinoma. the radiation dose was 65 gy in each group, and chemotherapy included vindesine, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and lomustine. in this study, 177 patients received radiotherapy alone (group a), and 176 patients received the combined treatment (group b). the 2-year survival rate was 14% in group a and 21% in group b (p = .08). the distant metastasis rate was significantly lower in group b (p less than .001). local control was poor in both groups (17% and 15%, respectively) and remained the major problem.
traumatic aneurysm of the superior cerebellar artery: case report and review of the literature. less than 10% of the 250 reported cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysms have involved the posterior circulation. traumatic aneurysms of the superior cerebellar artery are extremely rare, with only three cases previously reported. this is the first report of a traumatic superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in which the diagnosis was suggested by computed tomographic scan. the potential for a good outcome suggests the value of early angiography when the history and diagnostic imaging studies suggest the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm.
transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy for stenosing papillitis. the papilla of vater and its sphincter of oddi, lying at the confluence of the bile and pancreatic ducts in man, have long been suspected as a source of upper abdominal pain. enlarging the opening of the transpapillary segment of the bile and major pancreatic ducts by using a transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy resulted in death in a patient with a peripapillary diverticulum and pancreas divisum. eight-six patients followed for 1 to 10 years experienced a 75% success rate. thirty-six patients had a marked stenosis of their duct of wirsung, suggesting that their pain was primarily from the pancreas. the remainder had either a generalized narrowing (40 patients) or a normal (7 patients) papilla. pain was not satisfactorily resolved in patients with an associated pancreas divisum, chronic pancreatitis, and recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis with alcoholism.
angiographic follow-up after placement of a self-expanding coronary-artery stent background. the placement of stents in coronary arteries after coronary angioplasty has been investigated as a way of treating abrupt coronary-artery occlusion related to the angioplasty and of reducing the late intimal hyperplasia responsible for gradual restenosis of the dilated lesion. methods. from march 1986 to january 1988, we implanted 117 self-expanding, stainless-steel endovascular stents (wallstent) in the native coronary arteries (94 stents) or saphenous-vein bypass grafts (23 stents) of 105 patients. angiograms were obtained immediately before and after placement of the stent and at follow-up at least one month later (unless symptoms required angiography sooner). the mortality after one year was 7.6 percent (8 patients). follow-up angiograms (after a mean [+/- sd] of 5.7 +/- 4.4 months) were obtained in 95 patients with 105 stents and were analyzed quantitatively by a computer-assisted system of cardiovascular angiographic analysis. the 10 patients without follow-up angiograms included 4 who died. results. complete occlusion occurred in 27 stents in 25 patients (24 percent); 21 occlusions were documented within the first 14 days after implantation. overall, immediately after placement of the stent there was a significant increase in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant decrease in the percentage of the diameter with stenosis (changing from a mean [+/- sd] of 1.88 +/- 0.43 to 2.48 +/- 0.51 mm and from 37 +/- 12 to 21 +/- 10 percent, respectively; p less than 0.0001). later, however, there was a significant decrease in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant increase in the stenosis of the segment with the stent (1.68 +/- 1.78 mm and 48 +/- 34 percent at follow-up). significant restenosis, as indicated by a reduction of 0.72 mm in the minimal luminal diameter or by an increase in the percentage of stenosis to greater than or equal to 50 percent, occurred in 32 percent and 14 percent of patent stents, respectively. conclusions. early occlusion remains an important limitation of this coronary-artery stent. even when the early effects are beneficial, there are frequently late occlusions or restenosis. the place of this form of treatment for coronary artery disease remains to be determined.
nonpigmented congenital iris stromal cyst. a nonpigmented iris stromal cyst was observed in the right eye of a 6-week-old girl. there was no past history of trauma or use of topical miotics, and the remainder of the ocular examination was normal. the pathophysiology and management of this rare developmental anomaly are controversial.
treatment of chronic liver disease caused by 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency with chenodeoxycholic acid. deficiency of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase, the second enzyme in the sequence that catalyses the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol, leads to chronic liver disease in childhood as well as to malabsorption of fat and fat soluble vitamins. a 4 year old boy with this condition has been successfully treated by oral administration of a bile acid--chenodeoxycholic acid. he had been jaundiced since birth, grew poorly because of rickets, and had severe pruritus. plasma transaminase activities were persistently raised. chenodeoxycholic acid 125 mg twice daily for two months, and then 125 mg daily, cured his jaundice and pruritus, returned his transaminase activities to normal, and eliminated the need for calcitriol for prevention of rickets. on this treatment he has so far remained well for two years. a diagnosis of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency should be considered in any child with unexplained chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis, especially if the liver disease is accompanied by a clinically obvious malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins. a simple colorimetric test of the urine confirms the diagnosis and effective treatment can be started.
an echocardiographic assessment of atrial mechanical behaviour. relations between movement of the atrioventricular ring and changes in left atrial and ventricular dimensions were studied by echocardiography and compared with apexcardiography and doppler mitral flow velocity traces in 20 healthy controls and in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (n = 28) or dilatation (n = 16). during left ventricular systole the atrioventricular ring, a structure common to ventricle and atrium, moved towards the ventricular apex, thus increasing left atrial volume. this action matched pulmonary venous return because it was in phase with the transverse left atrial dimension measured from aortic root to posterior left atrial wall. during early diastole, the mitral ring moved rapidly towards the atrium as transmitral flow accelerated. this requires a force directed from ventricle to atrium, likely to be the result of elastic recoil arising from compression of the ventricular myocardium or stretching of the atrial myocardium during ventricular systole. two additional mechanisms of ventricular filling with atrial systole were recognised: (a) an increase in ventricular volume as the atrioventricular ring moved upwards and (b) transverse left ventricular expansion by pressure driven transmitral flow. the former is undetectable by doppler from the apex; it accounted for 10% of ventricular filling in the healthy controls, but for significantly less in those with ventricular dilatation. in left ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular filling was maintained by both mechanisms compensating for the reduced increase in volume early in diastole. interactions between the atrium and ventricle are functionally important during ventricular systole, early diastole, and in atrial systole. they are not included in the traditional separation of atrial function into reservoir, conduit, and pump functions.
extended hepatectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma. the results of extended hepatectomy in 25 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma performed over a 16 year period have been reviewed, analysed and compared with those of 144 patients who underwent lesser liver resection. five left and 20 right extended hepatectomies were performed for tumours ranging from 3 to 20 cm in diameter. seventeen (68 per cent) of the patients had non-cirrhotic livers. the major postoperative complications were: haemorrhage in five cases, major bile duct injury in three, subphrenic abscess in two, liver failure in one and wound dehiscence in one. the 30-day (operative) mortality rate was 12 per cent and the median survival duration, including operative mortality, was 9.7 (range 0.2-32.1) months. the survival rate was 46 per cent at 1 year, 33 per cent at 2 years and 22 per cent at 3 years. the morbidity, mortality and survival data of extended hepatectomy were comparable with the results of lesser hepatic resections for hepatocellular carcinoma. we conclude that extended hepatectomy is a worthwhile operation for large hepatocellular carcinomas and a viable alternative to liver transplantation.
biphasic effects of doxorubicin on the calcium release channel from sarcoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle. to define the mechanism of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity, the effects of doxorubicin and caffeine were examined on calcium release channels from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum. we found that calcium release from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles was induced by both compounds. when sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles were incorporated into planar lipid bilayers, calcium-permeable channels were observed. addition of caffeine (2.5-10 mm) increased channel open probability from less than 0.1% to 40%, and this effect persisted for a mean of 44 minutes. in contrast, doxorubicin (2.5-10 microm) had a biphasic effect; initially, doxorubicin activated the channel, whereas after a mean of 8 minutes, the channel became irreversibly inhibited. although the degree of channel activation by doxorubicin was concentration dependent, the time needed to inactivate the channel was concentration independent. pretreatment with dithiothreitol (0.2 mm) prevented doxorubicin-induced channel inactivation, and channel activity persisted for an average of 58 minutes. dithiothreitol alone did not alter channel open probability. our results support the hypotheses that 1) the integrity of sulfhydryl groups is important for some aspects of calcium release channel function and 2) activation and inactivation of the channel are separable processes. the biphasic effect of doxorubicin on channel function may also correspond to the clinically observed adverse effects of doxorubicin, a widely used chemotherapeutic agent that, after prolonged usage, causes a dilated cardiomyopathy.
extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas: natural history and response to treatment. extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas (rp) are uncommon tumors. because of their rarity, little is known of their natural history or response to treatment. we reviewed 22 patients with rp who were seen at our center between 1949 and 1990. the distribution of male and female patients was nearly equal, and the mean age was 42. most patients were admitted with pain or a mass, and eight of 22 tumors were functional. no significant difference was noted in duration of symptoms, size of the tumor, or survival between functional and nonfunctional tumors. eleven of 22 (50%) rp metastasized and were therefore classified as malignant. five-year and 10-year disease free survival rates were 19% and 19% for tumors not resected and 75% and 45% for those completely resected. once metastases occurred, the 5-year survival rate was 36%, but no patient survived beyond 76 months. predictors of survival included complete resection of the tumor but not size or functional status. although some patients who received chemotherapy or radiotherapy had clinical responses, a survival benefit could not be shown. rp have a high rate of malignant behavior and should be treated aggressively with operation. late metastases are not uncommon, and prolonged follow-up is necessary. once metastases have occurred, some patients may have prolonged survival.
freehand allograft aortic valve replacement and aortic root replacement. utility of intraoperative echocardiography and doppler color flow mapping. seventeen consecutive patients undergoing 20 planned aortic valve replacements with allograft valves at stanford university medical center were studied with intraoperative epicardial echocardiography and doppler color flow mapping before and after cardiopulmonary bypass. native aortic valves were replaced in 12 of the 20 patients, and eight patients underwent second aortic valve procedures. in 17 of 20 patients allograft selection was guided by prebypass echocardiographic estimates of annular diameter and/or length of allograft aortic root required. other prebypass findings included unanticipated severe mitral regurgitation in one patient (which precluded allograft aortic valve replacement), left-to-right shunts in five patients, ascending aortic dissection in one, and aortic root disease necessitating coronary reimplantation or bypass in two. postbypass echocardiography demonstrated acceptable competency of 18 of 19 allograft valves (mild or no aortic insufficiency). postbypass echocardiography also documented successful repair of four of five shunts and mild mitral regurgitation in 15 of 19 patients (versus 11 of 19 before bypass). conclusions: intraoperative echocardiography-doppler mapping is a useful adjunct for allograft aortic valve or aortic root replacement; it allows confident selection of appropriate tissue size before aortic cross clamping, which minimizes delay from allograft thawing procedures. it also provides helpful information about the extent of aortic root disease and coronary ostial anatomy before bypass, confirms allograft competency after bypass, and detects accompanying valvular and other hemodynamic lesions before and after allograft valve replacement.
cardiovascular effects of nicardipine. nicardipine, a new 1-4 dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, has chemical properties that allow oral and stable intravenous preparations. it is the first intravenous dihydropyridine calcium antagonist available in the united states. among its drug class it has a unique chemical structure that affords properties useful in the treatment of acute cardiovascular conditions, such as myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure, hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, and other related disorders. in patients with coronary artery disease, intravenous nicardipine has been found to reduce myocardial oxygen demand by reducing afterload and increasing myocardial oxygen supply through coronary vasodilatation. it enhances left ventricular performance and augments coronary blood flow beyond that required by increased myocardial oxygen consumption. nicardipine may also offer protection from ischemic injury to the heart and central nervous system. alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents, nicardipine has been shown to be effective in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension. it is safe for use in patients with certain types of conduction disturbances because it does not greatly affect sinoatrial and atrioventricular conduction. additional advantages for nicardipine's use in the management of acute cardiovascular disorders are its rapid onset and short duration of action.
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy. report of a case. retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature. this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented. it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication.
changing arteriosclerotic disease patterns and management strategies in lower-limb-threatening ischemia. from january 1, 1974 to december 31, 1989, we treated 2829 patients with critical lower-extremity ischemia. in the last 5 years, 13% of patients had therapeutically significant stenoses or occlusions above and below the groin, while 35% had them at two or three levels below the inguinal ligament. unobstructed arterial flow to the distal half of the thigh was present in 26% of patients, and 16% had unobstructed flow to the upper third of the leg with occlusions of all three leg arteries distal to this point and reconstitution of some patent named artery in the lower leg or foot. in the last 2 years, 99% of all patients with a threatened limb and without severe organic mental syndrome or midfoot gangrene were amenable to revascularization by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta), arterial bypass, or a combination of the two, although some distal arteries used for bypass insertion were heavily diseased or isolated segments without an intact plantar arch. limb salvage was achieved and maintained in more than 90% of recent patient cohorts, with a mean procedural mortality rate of 3.3%. recent strategies that contributed to these results include (1) distal origin short vein grafts from the below-knee popliteal or tibial arteries to an ankle or foot artery (291 cases); (2) combined pta and bypass (245 cases); (3) more distal pta of popliteal and tibial artery stenoses (233 cases); (4) use of in situ or ectopic reversed autogenous vein for infrapopliteal bypasses, even when vein diameter was 3 to 4 mm; (5) composite-sequential femoropopliteal-distal (ptfe/vein) bypasses; (6) reintervention when a procedure thrombosed (637 cases) or was threatened by a hemodynamically significant inflow, outflow, or graft lesion (failing graft, 252 cases); (7) frequent follow-up to detect threatening lesions before graft thrombosis occurred and to permit correction of lesions by pta (58%) or simple reoperation; and (8) unusual approaches to all infrainguinal arteries to facilitate secondary operations, despite scarring and infection. primary major amputation rates decreased from 41% to 5% and total amputation rates decreased from 49% to 14%. aggressive policies to save threatened limbs thus are supported.
the effect of dietary omega-3 fatty acids (fish oil) on azoxymethanol-induced focal areas of dysplasia and colon tumor incidence. maxepa (ma), a fish oil high in omega-3 fatty acids, was combined with various levels of corn oil (co), rich in omega-6 fatty acids, and fed to female cf1 mice. the three fish oil blends with co and the two co levels of the diets studied were as follows: 16.0% co + 4.4% ma (diet 1); 10.2% co + 10.2% ma (diet 2); 4.4% co + 16.0% ma (diet 3); 20.4% co (diet 4); and 4.4% co (diet 5). the diets were provided 2 weeks before weekly subcutaneous injection of saline or azoxymethanol (aom). studies of epithelial cell proliferation and the incidence of focal areas of dysplasia (fad) involved six weekly aom injections. one week after the last aom injection and 1 hour before killing, mice were injected with tritiated thymidine (3htdr). no differences in any proliferative parameters were found among the five groups of saline-treated mice. among the aom-treated animals, those fed diet 3 showed significantly fewer cells per crypt and significantly fewer labeled cells/gland than co diets 4 and 5. additionally, the distribution of s-phase cells in crypts of aom-treated mice fed diet 3 most closely resembled that of the saline controls. the greatest alteration in the distribution of proliferative cells was observed in the high-co diet (diet 4) and the lowest ma level (diet 1). mice fed diets 2 and 3 had significantly fewer fad/500 microns of distal colonic serial sections than those fed the high co diet (diet 4). mice involved in chronic tumor incidence studies received only three weekly injections of the same dose of aom. regardless of diet, approximately 88% of all tumors arose in the distal colon. a significantly larger tumor-bearing population was observed in both the high-co diet 4 and the lowest maxepa (ma) diet (diet 1) compared with the incidence in ma diets 2 and 3 and the low-co diet 5. a diet with a ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids of approximately 1.0 apparently prevented the development of an adenoma-type proliferative pattern thereby reducing fad numbers and subsequent tumor incidence.
normotensive young men with family histories of hypertension gain weight and decrease their intraerythrocyte sodium content during a 5-year follow-up. young normotensive men matched for age and body mass index with (n = 16) and without (n = 13) family histories of hypertension were investigated at baseline and after 5 years of follow-up with respect to blood pressure, body weight and intracellular sodium content. subjects with positive family histories of hypertension increased significantly in body weight (from 81.9 +/- 11.5 kg to 89.5 +/- 11.4 kg, p less than 0.001) compared to subjects with negative family histories of hypertension (from 79.9 +/- 10.8 kg to 80.7 +/- 12.2 kg, ns). their blood pressure did not differ initially (137 +/- 12/75 +/- 11 mmhg vs. 135 +/- 8/72 +/- 9 mmhg), but was reduced in subjects without family histories of hypertension (to 125 +/- 3/68 +/- 13 mmhg) in the follow-up examination. at follow-up, body mass index showed a positive correlation with blood pressure among subjects with positive family histories of hypertension (r = 0.77, p less than 0.001). at baseline, subjects with hypertensive fathers had significantly higher intraerythrocyte sodium levels than subjects with normotensive parents. at re-examination 5 years later, this difference was no longer present. we conclude that normotensive subjects with positive family histories of hypertension are predisposed to gain weight rather than to show an increase in blood pressure at this age. normalization of intracellular sodium content, as found in the present study, could be a consequence of this weight gain and the ensuing metabolic adaption.
observations on the pathophysiology of nelson's syndrome: a report of three cases. nelson's syndrome is generally regarded as an unusual sequela of primary bilateral adrenalectomy when performed for cushing's disease. it is classically defined by cutaneous hyperpigmentation, considerably elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone (acth) levels, and an enlarged sella turcica. in this report, we present three cases initially treated by transsphenoidal sellar exploration for cushing's disease. in two of these cases, remission of hypercortisolism did not occur after the initial pituitary exploration. a microadenomectomy was performed in one case and, in the other, no microadenoma was found. in both, nelson's syndrome occurred after adrenalectomy. a second transsphenoidal operation and radiotherapy were required to control tumor growth. in another case, transsphenoidal adenomectomy of an acth-secreting tumor initially led to a remission of hypercortisolism for 4 years, but recurrent cushing's disease necessitated adrenalectomy, and again nelson's syndrome occurred. the documentation of a pre-existing acth-secreting basophilic pituitary microadenoma before adrenalectomy, as seen in two of our cases, has not been previously reported, and these observations of "non-classical" courses have major implications for the pathophysiology of nelson's syndrome.
the importance of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium in familial adenomatous polyposis. we describe a family with familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) and congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (rpe). three of five members with fap showed flat, well-demarcated, round to oval pigmented patches of congenital hypertrophy of the rpe. we stress the importance of congenital hypertrophy of the rpe as a clinical marker in identifying patients with fap since they are at risk for cancer.
comparison of the conventional method of lymph node staging with a comprehensive fat-clearing method for gastric adenocarcinoma. discrepant results in long-term survival between united states and japanese patients with resectable gastric adenocarcinoma may result from more accurate staging in the japanese series. the authors compared a comprehensive fat-clearing method with the conventional pathology method of lymph node sampling in 11 patients undergoing curative gastrectomy and extended lymphadenectomy at their institution. comprehensive fat-clearing doubled total lymph node counts (p less than 0.01), identified smaller lymph nodes (p less than 0.001), and identified more histologically involved nodes of significantly smaller size (p less than 0.001). comprehensive fat-clearing pathologically upstaged 29% of the authors' eligible specimens. accurate pathologic staging is necessary when comparing japanese and united states survival data for resectable gastric adenocarcinomas.
syncytial giant-cell hepatitis. sporadic hepatitis with distinctive pathological features, a severe clinical course, and paramyxoviral features. background and methods. we describe a new form of hepatitis, occurring in 10 patients over a period of six years, characterized clinically by manifestations of severe hepatitis, histologically by large syncytial giant hepatocytes, and ultrastructurally by intracytoplasmic structures consistent with paramyxoviral nucleocapsids. results. the patients ranged in age from 5 months to 41 years. the tentative clinical diagnosis before biopsy was non-a, non-b hepatitis in five patients and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in the others. five patients underwent liver transplantation; the others died. the diagnosis of syncytial giant-cell hepatitis was established pathologically. the liver cords were replaced in all 10 patients by syncytial giant cells with up to 30 nuclei. in 8 of the 10 the cytoplasm contained pleomorphic particles of 150 to 250 microns, filamentous strands, and particles of 14 to 17 nm with peripherally disposed spikes resembling paramyxoviral nucleocapsids. structures resembling degenerated forms were found in the other two patients. one of two chimpanzees injected with a liver homogenate from the index patient had an increase in the titer of paramyxoviral antibodies, probably an anamnestic reaction to previous paramyxoviral infection, suggesting that a paramyxoviral antigen but not viable virus was present in the liver homogenate. conclusions. although further virologic studies will be required for precise classification, we believe that paramyxoviruses should be considered in patients with severe sporadic hepatitis.
influence of chemotherapy administration on monocyte activation by liposomal muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine in children with osteosarcoma. the purpose of these studies was to determine whether chemotherapy interfered with the ability of peripheral blood monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma to respond to the liposome-encapsulated activating agent muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine (l-mtp-pe). this was done in preparation of designing an adjuvant therapy protocol that includes l-mtp-pe combined with chemotherapy postoperatively for the treatment of primary osteosarcoma. the majority of patients who fail current adjuvant chemotherapy do so while on chemotherapy. therefore, we believe it is important to combine l-mtp-pe with chemotherapy early in the treatment course rather than waiting until all chemotherapy cycles are completed. the tumoricidal properties of monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma could be activated by l-mtp-pe to levels equal to or greater than those expressed by normal control monocytes. no intrinsic monocyte defect could be demonstrated. single-agent chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin (cpd), high-dose methotrexate (mtx), cytoxan (ctx, cyclophosphamide; bristol-myers co, evansville, in), or adriamycin (adr, doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh) did not interfere with this activation process. there was even a suggestion of enhanced activation potential following the administration of adr. however, when both adr and ctx were administered together on the same day, profound suppression in monocyte activation was observed. this suppressed function returned to normal by 3 weeks postcombination therapy. we therefore conclude that l-mtp-pe can be combined with adr, cpd, mtx, or ctx as single agents but recommend that adr plus l-mtp-pe is the most effective combination. by contrast, we discourage the use of l-mtp-pe when adr and ctx are given together.
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett's esophagus after total gastrectomy a 64-yr-old japanese male who underwent a partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer at the age of 21, a total resection of the remnant stomach for a stomal ulcer at age 25, and in whom barrett's esophagus was diagnosed at age 47, was found to have a tumor at the distal esophagus and was operated on by thoracic esophagectomy. the tumor was a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading down to the muscularis propria. the entire esophageal mucosa in the resected specimen was lined by columnar epithelium. this tumor was thought to derive from the barrett's esophageal epithelium.
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure: a nine-year follow-up study. seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed. thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy, and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm. eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure. in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone, total calcium, ionized calcium, alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product. histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery. postoperatively, four showed complete resolution and improvement. three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period. only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease, indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence. in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue. although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle. the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification. mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels. in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73, suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2.
comparison of direct and indirect measures of systemic arterial pressure during weightlifting in coronary artery disease. based on auscultation measurements after exercise, circuit weight training in cardiac patients has been reported to provoke minimal increases in systolic pressure. direct (brachial artery catheter) and indirect (sphygmomanometry) measures of blood pressure were compared at rest, during lifting with the legs (approximately the fourth, ninth and fourteenth repetition) and during 2 minutes of recovery after lifting with the arms and legs. subjects performed 15 repetitions of single-arm curl, single-arm military press and single- and double-leg press exercises at 40 and 60% of the maximum load that could be lifted once on a multistation weightlifting apparatus. indirect measures of systolic pressure at rest were 13% less than those recorded directly (130 +/- 7 vs 149 +/- 8 torr; p less than 0.01); diastolic pressures were similar using either method. this pattern was maintained during lifting with the legs at both intensities, and after exercise with both the legs and the arms. the mean systolic pressure recorded indirectly immediately after exercise was 63 torr (31%) and 76 torr (34%) less than the average peak intraarterial value recorded during leg and arm exercises, respectively. the highest intraarterial pressures were generated during the final repetitions of the set; immediately after the last repetition, both systolic and diastolic pressures rapidly decreased. it is concluded that indirect estimates of systolic pressure are significantly less than true arterial values at rest, and during and after lifting. moreover, indirect measurements after lifting do not allow accurate conclusions to be drawn about the arterial pressures generated during lifting because of the rapid decrease in pressure that occurs after exercise.
an objective appraisal of the role of computed tomographic (ct) guided drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses. computed tomographic (ct) guided drainage is an important tool in the treatment of intra-abdominal abscess. its most important role is in the treatment of small, unilocular, well-placed abscesses. success rates in our experience diminish considerably in abscesses involving necrotic tumors or those infected with yeast. as is frequently characteristic of new technologic procedures, the initial evaluation of the success rate of the procedure is overly optimistic. the procedure carries a considerable complication rate (13%) and mortality rate (15%). most importantly, success is usually evident early; within the first 24 to 48 hours. after this length of time, careful evaluation to consider further treatment should be contemplated.
factors associated with recurrent myocardial infarction within one year after acute myocardial infarction. in a large population of patients (n = 3666) who were discharged from the hospital after acute myocardial infarction and followed up for 1 year, factors associated with recurrent nonfatal (n = 171) or fatal (n = 74) infarction were identified. also, the effects of combining various end points (recurrent nonfatal or fatal infarction and other cardiac death) in multivariate analyses, a practice common in many small studies that evaluate the predictive-value of various treatments or special tests, was examined. in univariate analyses, patients with nonfatal recurrent infarction did not differ with respect to age or gender from infarct-free survivors, but they more often had a history of previous myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, angina pectoris, and diabetes; more severe pulmonary congestion was present on chest x-ray during the admission, and a non-q wave index infarction was more frequent. patients with either a fatal or nonfatal recurrent infarction had more angina pectoris during follow-up (55% to 60%) compared with 27% in event-free survivors and 31% in patients who died of other cardiac causes in whom this factor could be assessed before death. in multivariate analyses, historical and clinical prognostic factors were ranked differently for fatal or nonfatal reinfarction and other cardiac causes of death; angina pectoris at follow-up was highly related to recurrent infarction (fatal or nonfatal), along with a history of diabetes, and a non-q wave index infarction. these factors were not independently related to other causes of cardiac death.
function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism. heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease. the mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/c-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue. secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation. in addition, animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity. we also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism. although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment, hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts, even after 9 to 13 months. moreover, similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone (i.e., relative hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatasemia, and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d biosynthesis) were detected. these animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man.
noninvasive measurement of renal blood flow with technetium-99m-dtpa in the evaluation of patients with suspected renovascular hypertension if a hypertensive patient with renal artery stenosis (ras) is to benefit from percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (ptra) in terms of a sustained improvement in blood pressure control, one may postulate a demonstrable reduction in renal blood flow (rbf) to that kidney, reversible by ptra. in a population of 32 hypertensive patients, ras was present in 23 of 62 kidneys. eleven of the 32 patients underwent renal revascularization, of whom 6 showed improvement in blood pressure control at 6 mo, i.e., had renovascular hypertension (rvh). there was no correlation between rbf and angiographic appearances of the renal artery. furthermore, there was no significant difference between rbf in the stenosed kidneys of the patients with rvh compared with the stenosed kidneys of patients without rvh. individual kidney rbf was 22% (s.d. 11) higher 1-3 wk after ptra but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome. angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibition increased rbf by 25% (s.d. 25) of baseline flow before ptra but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome. measurement of rbf is of limited value for the prediction of the long-term blood pressure response following ptra.
gross and microscopic changes in the viscera induced by photodynamic therapy applied to the lower abdomen of intact rats. photodynamic therapy (pdt) is a promising approach to the treatment of cancer. preferential retention of the photosensitizer by malignant tissue has been considered a hallmark of this treatment modality. however, photosensitivity can be observed in normal, non-neoplastic tissues, and the present study investigated the effects of pdt treatment on the abdomen of intact rats. a circular region (1 cm diameter) on the shaved abdomen of fischer rats, pretreated 24 h prior with photofrin ii, was irradiated for 30 min at 632 nm. control animals received either photoradiation or photofrin ii administration. subsequent lesions were observed in the irradiated skin, its associated abdominal wall, and the underlying gut in rats receiving photofrin ii and laser irradiation. all tissues were not equally sensitive to pdt treatment. gut lesions were consistently more severe than were skin and abdominal wall injuries. by 24 hr after treatment, the gut manifested a transmural hemorrhagic necrosis, while the irradiated skin and abdominal wall were edematous, with an inflammatory infiltrate in the dermis and around occasional swollen myocytes. these results indicate that superficial lesions induced by pdt may not be reliable indicators of the extent of deeper pdt tissue damage. further, it may be possible to take advantage of this discrepancy in tissue sensitivity and treat deep tissues through less sensitive superficial tissues.
nondiagnosed left main ostial stenosis partly due to the use of 5 french coronary angiographic catheters. two cases have been reported in which the use of 5 f angiographic catheters is associated with a failure to diagnose an ostial stenosis of the left main coronary artery (lmca). in both cases, the erroneous diagnosis led to an inappropriate indication for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) on other stenosed vessels, and the ostial left main lesion was unexpectedly discovered when using 8f guiding catheters. it is supposed that the ability of performed 5f catheters to pass easily through an ostial lesion makes detection of such proximal stenosis much more difficult. we suggest that the choice of 5f catheters must be approached with caution when left main disease is potentially expected from the clinical features.
activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke. the hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood, and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism. we analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls. the levels of antithrombin iii, protein c, and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.001, 0.02, and 0.05, respectively). in contrast, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.01 and 0.001, respectively). at the time of admission, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization (one with prodromal embolism, three with intracardiac thrombi, and four with recurrent embolization) were 2.8 and 3.5 times, respectively, higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation. the lowest concentration of crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission. our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage.
outcome in mania. a 4-year prospective follow-up of 75 patients utilizing survival analysis. a 4-year follow-up of 75 patients was conducted to investigate outcome after recovery from an episode of mania. predictors of an unfavorable outcome included poor occupational status prior to index episode, history of previous episodes, history of alcoholism, psychotic features and symptoms of depression during the index manic episode, male gender, and interepisode affective symptoms at 6 months' follow-up. the mortality risk during the follow-up period was 4%. the identification of specific risk factors depended on the definition of outcome and the length of follow-up.
the opposite pupil in herniation. i serially examined the pupil opposite the one already enlarged from transtentorial herniation in 13 patients. the main abnormalities, stereotyped in most patients, were an initially diminished light reaction with a 2.5- to 4-mm-diameter pupil, followed by slight reduction in size, and then reenlargement to greater than original size, all with preserved roundness. subsequent deterioration varied among patients, but a transitional oval shape was infrequent and oculomotor function was preserved until both pupils were enlarged and fixed. once the pupil on the side of a mass enlarges, heralding herniation, subsequent deterioration can be appreciated through changes in reactivity and size of the opposite pupil.
leukoaraiosis, intracerebral hemorrhage, and arterial hypertension. to investigate whether the observed association of leukoaraiosis with intracerebral hemorrhage is direct or mediated by risk factors, we compared 116 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage confirmed by computed tomography and 155 controls without intracerebral hemorrhage, evaluating the prevalence of leukoaraiosis and vascular risk factors. leukoaraiosis was observed in 21 (18%) of the 116 patients and in 12 (8%) of the 155 controls (p less than 0.01). only two (6%) of the 31 patients with lobar hemorrhage had leukoaraiosis on computed tomograms, compared with 17 (24%) of the 71 patients with basal ganglionic hemorrhage (p less than 0.05). leukoaraiosis was significantly correlated with intracerebral hemorrhage after controlling for age and sex by using multiple logistic regression analysis, while the correlation disappeared after controlling for hypertension. our results indicate that leukoaraiosis is not an independent risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage.
magnetic and electrical stimulation of cervical motor roots: technique, site and mechanisms of excitation. cervical motor roots and the brachial plexus were excited transcutaneously with magnetic (magstim) and electrical stimulation (elstim) applied dorsally over the spine and over the supraclavicular fossa (erb's point). the compound muscle action potentials (cmaps) from the abductor digiti minimi (adm) and the biceps muscles (biceps) could be evoked with either stimulating technique in all 52 subjects tested. with magstim over the spinous process c7, greater cmaps were obtained from adm (p less than or equal to 0.0001, paired t test) and biceps (p less than or equal to 0.005) when the inducing current in the coil as viewed from behind was clockwise for the right arm and vice versa. elstim with the cathode over c7/t1 and the anode directed cranially provided greater cmaps from the adm (p less than or equal to 0.0001) and smaller cmaps from the biceps (p less than or equal to 0.01) than with the inverse polarity. magstim of the cervical roots provided cmaps which were smaller from adm (p less than or equal to 0.0001), and greater from biceps (p less than or equal to 0.0001), than elstim (cathode c7/t1), whereas latencies did not differ significantly (p less than or equal to 0.3). when comparing elstim and magstim applied over erb's point, the former yielded greater cmaps and 0.5 ms longer latencies from both the adm and biceps (p less than or equal to 0.001). from these data and additional studies in four patients, including direct intraoperative root stimulation in one of them, it is concluded that elstim and magstim over the spine excite the motor roots at a similar site, that is, within a few cm outside the intervertebral foramina.
prognostic factors in alcoholic liver disease. va cooperative study group. two hundred eighty-one alcoholic patients were prospectively evaluated by clinical, biochemical, and histologic parameters during a 4-yr period to assess their prognosis. they were stratified into four categories of injury: 1) fatty liver (26 patients), 2) acute alcoholic hepatitis (106), 3) cirrhosis (39), and 4) cirrhosis with superimposed alcoholic hepatitis (111). the rate of survival and variables correlating with survival varied according to the group. at 48 months, 70% of the patients with fatty liver were alive, 58% in the alcoholic hepatitis group, 49% in cirrhosis, and 35% in alcoholic hepatitis superimposed upon cirrhosis. within group one, deaths were due to causes unrelated to liver disease. in the alcoholic hepatitis group, factors significantly correlating with survival were ascites, alanine amino-transferase levels, grams of alcohol consumed, continuation of alcohol intake, and clinical severity of disease. survival in patients of group three correlated significantly with prothrombin time and histologic severity score. patients with combined cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis exhibited the worst prognosis, with the most significant predictors of survival being age, grams of alcohol consumed, the ratio of serum aminotransferases (ast:alt) and the histologic and clinical severity of the disease. although a different pattern of correlates was observed for each pathologic level of injury, knowledge of the various correlates aids in prognostic assessment.
malnutrition and carbohydrate malabsorption in children with vertically transmitted human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection. the nutritional needs of children with human immunodeficiency virus infection are poorly understood. twenty-eight children with vertically transmitted human immunodeficiency virus infection were evaluated for carbohydrate malabsorption using lactose hydrogen breath tests and d-xylose absorption studies. lactose malabsorption was a common finding in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children and occurred in 8 of 20 patients who had no identifiable enteric pathogen. lactose malabsorption occurred at an earlier age in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children than in an age-matched group of 45 symptomatic control children (p = 0.02). however, lactose malabsorption was not associated with higher rates of diarrhea or growth failure. abnormalities in d-xylose absorption were not significantly associated with either diarrhea or growth failure. however, 39% of d-xylose studies (9 of 23) showed abnormal results and were significantly associated with enteric infections (p = 0.004). abnormalities in small-bowel morphology were found in 4 of 9 children with growth failure, 3 of whom had an enteric infection and low d-xylose absorption. lactose hydrogen breath testing and d-xylose testing showed carbohydrate malabsorption in 61% of children (17 of 28). this study demonstrates that human immunodeficiency virus-infected children are at risk for malabsorptive disorders, which are not always related to clinical symptoms. we speculate that human immunodeficiency virus may be directly involved in the development of lactose malabsorption. carbohydrate malabsorption in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children may not be the only factor responsible for growth failure.
pharmacologic stress imaging. pharmacologic stress imaging has increasingly been employed as an alternative to exercise imaging for detection of coronary artery disease and risk stratification particularly in patients who are unable to perform adequate exercise. sensitivity and specificity of thallium 201 scintigraphy using intravenous dipyridamole infusion as a stress for coronary artery disease detection average 85% and 91%, respectively. dipyridamole imaging is also useful for differentiating between ischemia and scar and identifying patients who have an increased risk for subsequent cardiac events. dipyridamole imaging is particularly useful for preoperative risk stratification in patients undergoing surgery for peripheral vascular or aortic disease. dipyridamole imaging is also useful for identifying residual myocardial ischemia after myocardial infarction and detecting restenosis after coronary angioplasty. adverse side effects of dipyridamole are promptly reversed by aminophylline. dipyridamole stress can also be employed in association with echocardiography for detection of ischemia-induced regional wall motion abnormalities.
retrospective application of prognostic indices to pancreatitis discovered at necropsy. six prognostic indices, which were developed to assess inpatients with acute pancreatitis, were evaluated for possible retrospective application. when applied to a series of 14 cases in whom pancreatitis was first diagnosed at necropsy, the index devised by jacobs et al was found to be the most useful, because in nine of these cases eight or more of the variables required were available for assessment from the case records. in the other indices evaluated fewer than eight of the required variables were available for retrospective assessment in most cases. although undiagnosed pancreatitis is probably uncommon as a sole cause of death, the retrospective use of one or more of these indices may help assess the severity of the patient's condition on admission to hospital.
long-term outcome of massive small bowel resection. the long-term outcome for seven patients 4-17 yr (mean 7.1 yr) after massive small bowel resection, leaving 5-160 cm (mean 86.4) of small bowel, was reviewed. their mean age at the final enterectomy was 40 yr. adaptation to foodstuffs and the effects of physiologic alterations and complicating diseases on their return to work were emphasized. more than 3.5 yr after surgery, the patients had adapted to many kinds of foodstuffs, but dietary fat could not be tolerated by three patients. six patients returned to work an average of 2.7 yr after surgery, but four were obliged to discontinue their work because of rehospitalization for long-term complications. in addition, their working hours were limited, and they could not engage in heavy physical work, owing to physiologic alterations, such as a reduced metabolic state, after massive enterectomy.
an enhancer variant of moloney murine leukemia virus defective in leukemogenesis does not generate detectable mink cell focus-inducing virus in vivo [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 jun 1;88(11):5066] moloney murine leukemia virus (mo-mulv) induces t-cell lymphoma when inoculated into neonatal mice. this is a multistep process. early events observed in infected mice include generalized hematopoietic hyperplasia in the spleen and appearance of mink cell focus-inducing (mcf) recombinants; end-stage tumors are characterized by insertional proviral activation of protooncogenes. we previously showed that an mo-mulv enhancer variant, mo+pyf101 mo-mulv, has greatly reduced leukemogenicity and is deficient in induction of preleukemic hyperplasia. in this report, we have examined mo+pyf101 mo-mulv-inoculated mice for the presence of mcf recombinants. in contrast to wild-type mo-mulv-inoculated mice, mo+pyf101 mo-mulv-inoculated mice did not generate detectable mcf recombinants. this failure was at least partly due to an inability of the mcf virus to propagate in vivo, since a molecularly cloned infectious mo+pyf101 mcf virus did not replicate, even when inoculated as a mo+pyf101 mo-mulv pseudotype. these results show that the leukemogenic defect of mo+pyf101 mo-mulv is associated with its inability to generate mcf recombinants capable of replication in vivo. this, in turn, is consistent with the view that mcf recombinants play a significant role in mo-mulv-induced disease and, in particular, may play a role early in the disease process.
comparison of converting enzyme inhibitor and calcium channel blocker in hypertensive glomerular injury. the protective effect of converting enzyme inhibitors in experimental hypertensive glomerular injury is associated with decreased systemic arterial and glomerular capillary pressure. although calcium channel blockers effectively lower systemic blood pressure, their effect on glomerular capillary pressure and on hypertensive glomerular injury is uncertain. we compared equihypotensive treatment with the calcium antagonist ta 3090 or the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in post-salt hypertensive dahl salt-sensitive (ds) rats for up to 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy. before the nephrectomy, all rats demonstrated hypertension (mean 177 mm hg), proteinuria (mean 175 mg/day), and mild glomerulosclerosis (mean injury score 35). rats treated with captopril or ta 3090 demonstrated a significant and equivalent decrease in systolic blood pressure compared with untreated rats at 2, 3, and 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy; however, only captopril reduced proteinuria. final proteinuria was actually increased in rats treated with ta 3090 compared with untreated rats. glomerular injury score was significantly decreased in captopril-treated compared with untreated rats at 2 weeks (33 +/- 9 versus 117 +/- 10, p less than 0.05) and 5 weeks (46 +/- 9 versus 94 +/- 24, p less than 0.05), whereas treatment with ta 3090 delayed but did not prevent progressive glomerular injury (2-week score 35 +/- 7, p less than 0.05 versus untreated; 5-week score 109 +/- 19, p = ns versus untreated). thus, in hypertensive ds rats after subtotal nephrectomy, treatment with a converting enzyme inhibitor reduced systemic blood pressure, proteinuria, and glomerulosclerosis. however, equihypotensive treatment with a calcium channel blocker did not reduce proteinuria and delayed but did not prevent glomerulosclerosis. thus, in the rat similar reductions in systemic blood pressure with these two classes of agents have disparate effects on the progression of chronic renal failure.
the deoxyribonucleic acid regions involved in the hormonal regulation of thyroglobulin gene expression. transcription of the thyroglobulin (tg) gene is stimulated by tsh via camp. we have characterized the sequence elements responsible for the hormone-dependent expression of tg gene in rat thyroid frtl-5 cells using internal deletion and linker-scanning mutants of the minimal tg promoter (-170 basepairs) fused with the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene. the tg gene is regulated by at least two regions located between -165 and -140 bp (tg-iii) and between -95 and -65 bp (tg-i) from the transcription initiation site. the intervening region can be deleted without significant effect on the promoter activity. either of the two regions alone does not promote hormone-dependent transcription. a dnase footprinting assay showed that tg-i and tg-iii are the principal protein-binding sites and that the proteins interacting with these two regions are induced by tsh or camp. these results suggest that the hormone-dependent expression of tg gene may be achieved by cooperative interaction of the proteins bound to tg-i and tg-iii.
capillary haemangioma presenting as a lung pseudocyst. a girl who developed a lung cyst at 24 hours of age during gentle ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome is reported. instead of resolving as expected of a pseudocyst it continued to expand. resection at 1 year of age showed a cyst entirely surrounded by capillary haemangioma. aspiration of this cyst would have been dangerous.
mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty. two cases of massive mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty are reported. this severe complication occurred in two elderly women with recurrent mitral stenosis after previous surgical commissurotomy. due to their unstable hemodynamic and clinical condition, both patients underwent emergency valve replacement. at surgery, the commissures appeared fused and heavily calcified; the chordae tendineae thickened, shortened, and fused; and the leaflets presented a large tear with sheared edges. because the technical aspects of both procedures were unremarkable, the anatomic features of the mitral valve seemed to affect the occurrence of severe mitral regurgitation. percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty should be therefore applied carefully to patients with prior surgical valvotomy, in whom the structural alterations of the mitral apparatus may predispose to severe valvular damage.
depressive symptoms following stroke. objective: the primary purpose of this study was to assess the relation of lesion location to mood and vegetative disturbance following stroke. method: fifty-two inpatients and outpatients who had had single, unilateral strokes were included. patients with past cns or psychiatric disorders were excluded. a modified visual analogue dysphoria scale was used to allow the inclusion of all but the most impaired aphasic patients. sleep and eating disturbances were measured by using both self-report and nursing assessments. location of lesions was determined by ct scan and classified according to three dimensions: right-left, dorsal-ventral, and frontal-nonfrontal. results: on measures of dysphoric mood and sleep disturbance, results indicated significant three-way interactions among the three lesion dimensions. no differences were found with regard to eating disturbance. greater dysphoria and sleep disturbance were found in subjects with left parietal/occipital, left inferior frontal, right superior frontal, and right temporal lesions than in subjects with lesions in other locations. depressive symptoms were not associated with functional impairment as measured by activities of daily living, motor strength, or severity of aphasia. conclusions: these results support the hypothesis that lesion location is a valid and significant factor in the mixture of influences which may result in a dysphoric mood state following stroke. the relation between the site of the lesion and subsequent depressive symptoms, however, may be more complex than has been reported previously.
identification of pre- and postcentral gyri on ct and mr images on the basis of the medullary pattern of cerebral white matter. the authors illustrate a new method to identify the pre- and postcentral gyri on computed tomographic (ct) and magnetic resonance (mr) images of the brain on the basis of the pattern of the medullary branches of the cerebral white matter. the most commonly used method to identify the gyri depends on recognition of the central sulcus by surface arrangement of the sulci. the two methods were compared by analysis of ct images of 104 subjects who had normal findings (age range, newborn to 60 years; 57 males and 47 females). the usefulness of the new method was also determined in angiographic studies of nine patients with space-occupying lesions. the method is especially helpful for identification of gyri on the lower level of the centrum semiovale and if space-occupying lesions are present that may result in a blurred depiction of sulci. since mr imaging depicts the medullary branches more clearly than does ct, this new method should facilitate identification of the gyri with either modality.
replacement of the aortic valve or root with a pulmonary autograft in children. between january 1967 and december 1988, 34 patients ranging in age from 3 to 18 years (mean, 14 +/- 3.6 years) underwent replacement of the aortic valve or root with their own pulmonary valve. the indication for operation was left ventricular outflow obstruction in 16 patients (47%), aortic regurgitation in 14 (41%), mixed aortic valve disease in 3 (9%), and failure of a previously implanted aortic homograft in 1 (3%). there were four early deaths, all before 1971, giving a hospital mortality of 11.8% (70% confidence interval, 6% to 20%). surviving patients have been followed up a cumulative total of 214 patient-years, the longest period of observation being 16 years 8 months. late mortality was 13.3% (70% confidence interval, 7% to 23%), and 4 other patients required removal of the pulmonary autograft for endocarditis. actuarial rates at 16 years were 74% +/- 11% for freedom from reoperation on the left ventricular outflow tract, 80% +/- 10% for freedom from reoperation on the right ventricular outflow tract, and 77% +/- 10% for late survival. there was no instance of primary structural degeneration in the pulmonary autograft, and all surviving patients were in new york heart association functional class i without medication. this experience demonstrates that the pulmonary autograft can achieve good early and medium-term results in young patients. should growth potential be realized, it might constitute the ideal biological valve for the left ventricular outflow in children.
interventional radiology of the biliary tract. intraductal radiation. one palliative method of treating patients with a high duct cholangiocarcinoma is the use of 192ir wire. this is placed through the tumor, which has been previously intubated, and delivers a high local dose of radiation. the mean survival time in 30 patients treated with intraductal radiation was 16.8 months, an improvement compared to surgical bypass or endoscopic and radiologic drainage procedures.
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions we developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide (pthrp), based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of pthrp, 125i-tyr degrees-pthrp(1-34) as radioligand, and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with c-2 cartridges. we determined immunoreactive pthrp concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons (mean +/- sd, 3.1 +/- 1.0 pmol/liter; range, less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter), 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion, and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen. pthrp was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (3.2 +/- 1.1 pmol/liter), secondary hyperparathyroidism (2.5 +/- 1.3 pmol/liter), and cancer without hypercalcemia (2.4 +/- 1.0 pmol/liter). in contrast, plasma immunoreactive pthrp levels were increased (6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter) in 47% of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types, with or without bone metastatic lesions. large amounts of pthrp were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells. thus, pthrp may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases. measurement of circulating pthrp may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states.
preoperative aspirin therapy and reoperation for bleeding after coronary artery bypass surgery. we performed a case-control study to estimate the relative risk of reoperation for bleeding in coronary artery bypass graft patients who had taken aspirin within the 7 days preceding surgery. comparison of 90 cases of reoperation with 180 matched control subjects gave an estimated odds ratio for reoperation of 1.82 (95% confidence interval, 1.23 to 3.32). although their preoperative coagulation values were similar, cases used significantly more whole blood (cases, 9.5 +/- 5.2 units; control subjects, 3.0 +/- 2.0 units; median +/- interquartile range), packed red blood cells (cases, 2.1 +/- 4.0 units; control subjects, 0.9 +/- 2.0 units), and platelets (cases, 12.2 +/- 12.0 units; control subjects, 2.9 +/- 4.0 units) than control subjects. cases had intensive care unit stays of 4.7 +/- 5.7 days (mean +/- sd) vs 2.1 +/- 1.9 days for control subjects and postoperative hospitalizations of 10.9 +/- 8.2 days vs 7.0 +/- 3.2 days for control subjects. we conclude that aspirin exposure within 7 days before coronary bypass surgery is associated with an increased rate of reoperation for bleeding and that reoperation is associated with large increases in transfusion requirements and intensive care unit and hospital stays.
aortic replacement with composite grafts created with a sutureless intraluminal ringed prosthesis. from 1980 to 1988, 30 patients from a total population of 123 recipients of sutureless grafts (24%) have required aortic reconstruction with a composite ringed graft. replacement of the ascending aorta was required in 12 patients, of the aortic arch in six patients, of the descending aorta in two patients, of the thoracoabdominal aorta in two patients, and of the abdominal aorta in eight patients. eight patients (27%) needed an emergency operation at the time of admission. no patients had permanent neurologic or renal deficits. there was no evidence of pseudoaneurysm formation, graft erosion, graft migration, or aortic bleeding in the postoperative period. two operative deaths (7%) occurred, both in patients undergoing arch reconstruction. composite grafts can be created that vary in length and shape, incorporate different graft materials, and accommodate the aorta and its branches. the ability to modify the sutureless prosthesis to suit the disease encountered at operation allows the quickest repair with the least chance of anastomotic complication.
gestational trophoblastic disease of the fallopian tube. tubal gestational trophoblastic disease (gtd) was diagnosed in 16 (0.8%) of 2,100 women with gtd managed at the new england trophoblastic disease center. tubal partial mole, complete mole and choriocarcinoma were present in 5, 5 and 6 patients, respectively. patients with tubal gtd were not clinically distinguishable from those with traditional tubal pregnancies. while only one patient with tubal mole developed metastases, four patients with tubal choriocarcinoma presented with metastases. all the patients achieved complete, sustained remission.
a multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease. perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality, and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse. we reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates, or both. multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions, a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death, while age, use of a bronchodilator, a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications. a duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications. the type of operation performed either simple closure, vagotomy and drainage or resection, did not influence morbidity or mortality. the most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term. long term results were improved with definitive operation, as measured by the visick classification and the need for reoperations. definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer.
measles-associated diarrhea in hospitalized children in lima, peru: pathogenic agents and impact on growth. because the causes of measles-associated diarrhea are not well known, 0- to 5-year-old children presenting to the hospital with measles-associated diarrhea (cases, n = 77) or acute diarrhea only (controls, n = 77) were compared. growth and diarrheal morbidity were evaluated for 1 month after acute illness. campylobacter jejuni was more frequently isolated from cases (31%) than controls (16%; p = .03). rotavirus was absent in all cases versus 28% of controls (p less than .001). incidence density for new episodes of diarrhea was significantly greater in cases (6.5 vs. 4.1; odds ratio, 1.6; confidence intervals, 1.09-2.34; p = .01), as was duration of episodes (3 vs. 2 days, p = .02). both groups showed similar positive cumulative percentage weight gains throughout follow-up. these data support the theory of measles as a risk factor for developing diarrhea. the bacteriologic and virologic findings may reflect the immunologic response of the host to measles infection.
type i hypersensitivity to rubber. seven patients with type i hypersensitivity reactions to rubber are reported. radioallergosorbent testing with crude latex antigen was positive in 6/7 patients. five patients had coexisting spina bifida, and all had undergone surgery before the development of rubber allergy. rubber allergy is a new phenomenon that should be in the differential diagnosis of idiopathic anaphylaxis and urticaria.
treatment selection for carcinoma of the base of the tongue. between 1974 and 1984, 173 patients were treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue base. fifty-four patients had t1 or t2 primaries, while 115 patients had t3 or t4 tumors (4 were not staged). lymph node metastasis was present in 120 patients. early primary tumors treated with surgery or radiotherapy had a control rate of 83% (5 of 6 tumors) and 89% (40 of 45 tumors), respectively. for advanced primary tumors, definitive radiotherapy produced a local control rate of 55% (42 of 76 tumors), compared with 79% (23 of 29 tumors) for surgery and postoperative radiotherapy. if primary control was obtained, the regional failure rate was less than 10%. tumor growth patterns were predictive of the response to radiotherapy. the primary control rate at 2 years for 21 patients with exophytic tumors was 84% as opposed to 58% for 62 patients with ulcerative-infiltrative tumors (p = 0.04). radiotherapy is effective for early stage or exophytic tumors, whereas for advanced or deeply invasive tumors combined therapy enhances local control.
differential impairment of semantic and episodic memory in alzheimer's and huntington's diseases: a controlled prospective study. a controlled prospective study compared the performance of 14 patients with dementia of alzheimer type (dat) and 14 patients with huntington's disease (hd), who were matched for overall level of dementia, on a battery of semantic and episodic memory tests. the dat patients were significantly more impaired on measures of delayed verbal and figural episodic memory, and in addition showed a more rapid rate of decline on tests which depend upon the integrity of semantic knowledge (naming, number information, similarities and category fluency). in contrast, the hd patients were significantly worse, and showed a more rapid decline on the letter fluency test, a task especially sensitive to deficiencies in retrieval. the hd patients were also more impaired than dat patients on a vocabulary test and on copying geometric figures. the observed double dissociations offer compelling evidence that aetiologically distinct forms of dementing illness result in different patterns of cognitive impairment.
short-term course of corticosteroids in the treatment of resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease. the aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of short-term corticosteroids in resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease after 4 wk or more on standard treatment. thirty-seven patients were randomly allocated to two groups: group i (18 patients) was put on 40 mg furosemide and 200 mg spironolactone, in addition to a 15-day, tapering dose of prednisone (15, 10, 5 mg). group ii (19) patients received the same diuretics without steroids, and served as controls. at the end of a 2-wk course of therapy, the mean variations were as follows: body weight in patients in group i ("cases") decreased by 9.8 kg, compared with 4.3 kg in controls; abdominal girth decreased by 7.4 cm in cases, compared with 3.6 cm in controls; urine output increased by 635.9 ml in cases, compared with 364.6 ml in controls; urinary sodium excretion increased by 16.5 meq/day in cases, compared with 4.1 meq/day in controls. these differences between cases and controls were found to be statistically significant (p less than 0.01). on the other hand, there were insignificant differences as regards decrease in blood urea (3.2 g/dl for cases and 2.7 g/dl for controls), decrease in serum creatinine (0.2 mg/dl for both cases and controls), increase in serum albumin (0.3 g/dl in cases and 0.2 g/dl in controls), increase in serum sodium (3.2 meq/l in cases and 2.7 meq/l in controls), and increase in serum potassium (0.2 meq/l in cases and 0.4 meq/l in controls). we conclude that a short-term course of corticosteroids in conjunction with standard diuretics has proved to be an effective, safe, and economical modality to relieve resistant hepatic ascites. it can be considered a temporary alternative to paracentesis with albumin infusion.
patient profiling: individualization of hypertension therapy. although the stepped-care approach remains the cornerstone of antihypertensive therapy, the patient's profile must also be considered. important issues include the patient's age, race and activity level, potential for hypertensive complications, presence of other diseases, cost of medications and probability of adherence to the recommended drug regimen. nonpharmacologic treatment based on lifestyle changes is a useful adjunct to drug therapy, but it is not sufficient to control hypertension in most patients. selection of pharmacologic therapy must be based on a knowledge of each drug's mode of action and side effects, as well as the characteristics of special patient populations.
atenolol therapy for exercise-induced hypertension after aortic coarctation repair. after successful repair of coarctation of the aorta in childhood, exercise-induced upper body systolic hypertension is well documented. beta blockade has been shown to reduce the arm/leg gradient in untreated coarctation of the aorta; treatment before coarctation repair has decreased paradoxical hypertension after repair. ten patients with successful surgical repair of coarctation, defined as a resting arm/leg gradient of less than or equal to 18 mm hg, were evaluated by treadmill exercise before and after beta blockade with atenolol. mean age was 5.5 years at repair and 18 at study. at baseline evaluation, systolic blood pressures at termination of exercise ranged from 201 to 270 mm hg (mean 229 mm hg). arm/leg gradients at exercise termination ranged from 30 to 143 mm hg (mean 84). follow-up treadmill exercise studies were performed after beta blockade. upper extremity systolic pressures at exercise termination were normalized in 9 of 10 patients. maximal systolic blood pressure recorded at exercise termination ranged from 163 to 223 mm hg (mean 196 mm hg, p less than or equal to 0.005). arm/leg gradient at termination of exercise also decreased significantly to a mean of 51 mm hg (p less than 0.05). no patient had symptoms on atenolol and exercise endurance times were unchanged. the study results in this small series suggest that cardioselective beta blockade can be used to treat exercise-induced upper body hypertension effectively after surgical repair of coarctation. because a high incidence of premature cardiovascular disease has been well documented after satisfactory surgical repair, the findings are of importance for this group of postoperative patients.
modulation of the stretch reflex during volitional sinusoidal tracking in parkinson's disease. sinusoidal visually-guided wrist tracking, in normal and parkinsonian subjects, was perturbed by torque transients every 90 degrees throughout the movement. long-latency stretch reflex and volitional emg amplitude modulations were assessed as functions of the tracking phase. reflex modulation during tracking, both in wrist flexor and extensor muscles, was found to differ significantly between parkinsonian and normal subjects. in the parkinsonian group, the abnormality consisted of an increased reflex activity during tracking phases in which the muscle was lengthening. at these phases the reflex generated torque is opposite in direction to the volitionally generated torque and the tracking movement. no differences in the unperturbed volitional emg modulation were observed between groups for this error constrained tracking paradigm. significant correlations were found between ratings of bradykinesia and the amount of abnormal reflex modulation in the wrist flexor. these data suggest that a component of bradykinesia results from a defective coordination of supraspinal reflex and volitional control systems.
giant chest wall tumor resulting from tissue reaction to foreign bodies. three patients are reported in whom chest wall tumors developed 19 to 28 years after thoracoplasty and increased in size with time. the tumors could be removed operatively with good results. all tumors were composed of hematoma and necrotic material, and in all cases they revealed foreign bodies microscopically. diagnosis and possible etiological factors are discussed.
phase i and imaging trial of indium 111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 225 in patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma murine monoclonal antibody (mab) 225 (igg1) against the epidermal growth factor (egf) receptor competitively blocks egf binding and inhibits egf-induced activation of receptor tyrosine kinase and cell proliferation. the effect of mab 225 was studied in a phase i trial in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung, which invariably expresses high levels of egf receptors. groups of three patients received total doses of mab 225 ranging from 1 mg to 300 mg. except at the lowest dose, each infusion included 4 mg of indium 111 (111in)-labeled mab 225. no toxicity was observed. tumors were imaged in all patients who received doses of 20 mg or greater. presumed metastases greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were imaged with doses of 40 mg or greater. single-photon-emission-computed tomography could be carried out at the 120-mg and 300-mg doses and significantly improved tumor visualization. all patients produced anti-murine antibodies. we conclude that treatment with an mab that inhibits egf receptor function is safe at the doses and schedule studied. 111in-labeled mab images squamous cell lung carcinoma; tumor uptake of the labeled mab is dose dependent. further studies are warranted to explore the potential therapeutic efficacy of anti-egf receptor mabs and other agents that act in a comparable manner.
conditioning prepulse of biphasic defibrillator waveforms enhances refractoriness to fibrillation wavefronts. the mechanism of biphasic waveform defibrillation threshold reduction is unknown. we tested the hypothesis that, during refractory period stimulation, sarcolemmal hyperpolarization by the first pulse of biphasic waveforms facilitates excitation channel recovery, which enhances graded responses produced by the second depolarizing pulse. this prolongs cellular refractoriness to fibrillation wavefronts when compared with a monophasic depolarizing stimulus. monophasic (10 msec, rectangular wave) or symmetrical biphasic (10 msec, each pulse) current injection s2 stimuli at 1.5 and two times s1 threshold were used to scan the s1 action potential refractory period (s1 cycle length, 600 msec) in myocardial cell aggregates. s2 waveforms were delivered with normal and reversed polarity to test the hyperpolarizing action of biphasic waveforms. responses to an s3 stimulus, which simulated a potential incoming fibrillation wavefront, were also determined. results showed that biphasic s2 waveforms produced longer graded responses during and immediately after the s1 refractory period than did corresponding monophasic s2 waveforms. the maximum difference in response duration produced by the biphasic and monophasic waveforms was 58.6 +/- 10.0 msec (p less than 0.001). this maximum difference occurred 10 msec before the end of the s1 refractory period. the longer response durations produced by biphasic s2 also produced longer refractoriness to the s3 stimulus. the maximum difference in total refractoriness to s3 of 51.8 +/- 2.8 msec (p less than 0.002) occurred at the same s1s2 coupling interval as the maximum difference in s2 response duration. prolonged refractoriness may protect ventricular cells from refibrillation wavefronts and act as the cellular basis for greater biphasic waveform defibrillation efficacy.
meropenem pharmacokinetics and penetration into an inflammatory exudate. the pharmacokinetics and penetration into a cantharidine-induced inflammatory exudate of meropenem was studied in six volunteers following a single 1-g intravenous dose. concentrations in plasma, urine, and the inflammatory exudate were determined by a microbiological assay. the mean elimination half-life of meropenem in plasma was 1.1 h, with the concentration in plasma declining from a mean of 23.6 micrograms/ml at 1 h to 0.7 micrograms/ml at 6 h. the inflammatory fluid penetration was rapid (time to maximum concentration of drug in serum, 0.75 h), and the penetration was 111%. the recovery of meropenem in urine at 24 h was 65.4% of the administered dose.
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold. an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (aicd) was implanted in 40 patients with sudden cardiac arrest (n = 29), sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (n = 10) or recurrent syncope (n = 1) who were unsuitable for direct ablative surgery or had had unsuccessful medical therapy. the effect of patch electrode polarity on the defibrillation threshold was prospectively evaluated. two large epicardial patches were used. initial polarity was selected at random. ventricular fibrillation was induced by direct current and a preestablished defibrillation protocol employed to assess the minimal energy that would reproducibly defibrillate the heart. nineteen patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with the inferior left ventricular patch as an anode and nine patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with this patch as a cathode. in general, the defibrillation threshold was lower when this patch was used as an anode than when it was used as a cathode (18 +/- 10 versus 22.6 +/- 12.2 j; p less than 0.01). no preoperative variable predicted optimal polarity. therefore, the effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold should be assessed in each patient at the time of aicd implantation so that the safety margin for satisfactory device function can be maximized.
pathophysiology of ischemic skin flaps: differences in xanthine oxidase levels among rats, pigs, and humans. oxygen-derived free radicals have been implicated in a variety of diseases and pathologic processes, including ischemia reperfusion injury (iri). based on experimental work with rat skin-flap models, the enzyme xanthine oxidase (xo) has been proposed as a major source of free radicals responsible for tissue injury and flap necrosis. the presence of this enzyme is variable within different tissues of a specific species and between species. xanthine oxidase levels in pig and human skin have not previously been reported. the activity of xanthine oxidase in the skin of rats (n = 16), pigs (n = 7), and humans (n = 8) was measured after varying intervals of ischemia and in the rat also following reperfusion. control pig and human skin were found to contain minimal enzyme activity, almost 40 times less than that of the rat. in the rat, xanthine oxidase activity was stable throughout a prolonged period of ischemia, and a significant decrease in activity was found after 12 hours of reperfusion (p less than 0.05). in humans, xanthine oxidase activity was unaffected by ischemia time, and in the pig, it did not increase until 24 hours of ischemia (p less than 0.05). the potential sources of free radicals and the mechanism of action of xanthine oxidase and its inhibitor allopurinol in improving flap survival in different species are reviewed.
controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs in pregnancy. it is taken for granted that severe hypertension in pregnancy should be treated, although the principle has not been formally tested by properly controlled trials. there is less certainty about treating mild to moderate hypertension (140/90 to 169/109 mm hg). the risk of chronic hypertension in pregnancy depends on that of superimposed preeclampsia, which must be prevented by control of the blood pressure if antihypertensive treatment is to be beneficial. there is not a priori reason why lowering the blood pressure should have this effect. most of the trials of treatment have been too small to provide conclusive answers. usually treatment has been started too late to give a realistic expectation of influencing the evolution of superimposed preeclampsia. however, the largest trial of the early use of methyldopa in women with mild chronic hypertension, showed clearly that treatment does not prevent the superimposition of preeclampsia. beta-adrenergic blocking agents, if used from the second start of the trimester, are associated with a major risk of severe growth retardation and are therefore contraindicated. methyldopa has the best safety record, which includes long-term follow-up to assess the development of children exposed to methyldopa in utero. the ineffectiveness of antihypertensive drugs in preventing or ameliorating preeclampsia needs to be contrasted with the consistent evidence for the effectiveness of antiplatelet therapy. this is consistent with the increasing evidence that preeclampsia is not primarily, or even necessarily, a hypertensive disease.
humeral head retroversion in patients with unstable humeroscapular joints. humeral head retroversion and shoulder rotation in both the frontal and scapular plane were studied in 34 patients with anterior glenohumeral instability. twenty-two patients had traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations and another 12 patients had nontraumatic dislocations with generalized joint laxity. patients with traumatic recurrent dislocations had a smaller than normal retroversion angle in the unstable shoulder. the angles were 26 degrees on the dominant side and 23 degrees on the nondominant side compared with 33 degrees and 29 degrees, respectively, in normal shoulders. the stable contralateral shoulder joint was clinically and roentgenographically similar to the normal shoulder. the patients with nontraumatic dislocations had increased rotation and smaller retroversion angles, irrespective of stability in the shoulder joint. the retroversion angles were 18 degrees for unstable shoulders on the dominant side and 15 degrees on the nondominant side. the retroversion angle of the stable contralateral joint in these patients was less in five of eight shoulders.
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies. by means of a mail questionnaire, information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals. seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms; in 22 patients, the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy, and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment. when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population, no increase in the incidence of complications was observed: 64% of the pregnancies went to term, 9% resulted in spontaneous abortion, and 5% resulted in premature births. the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals. there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy. in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed, the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies, if deemed necessary, should not be postponed because of pregnancy. moreover, the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided, especially to those fields involving the pelvic area.
increased lysis of patient cd10-positive leukemic cells by t cells coated with anti-cd3 fab' antibody cross-linked to anti-cd10 fab' antibody. an anti-cd3 fab' x anti-cd10 fab' bispecific hybrid f(ab')2 antibody (ab) was generated. this bispecific ab had a molecular mass of 100 to 110 kd, and the capacity to react with both cd3+ t cells and cd10+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) cells. we studied whether cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) could lyse patient cd10+ all cells after addition of the bispecific ab. as effector ctls, interleukin-2 (il-2)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) and ctl clones were used. when il-2-stimulated pbmcs were assayed for cytotoxicity to 61cr-labeled cd10+ all cells, their activity was shown to be markedly enhanced by the addition of the bispecific ab. most of the ctl clones established lacked cytotoxicity for cd10+ all cells, but addition of the bispecific ab induced a significant level of cytotoxicity. ctls derived from all patients also showed significant cytotoxicity for autologous cd10+ all cells after addition of the bispecific ab. however, this ab did not affect the cytotoxicity of ctls when cd10- leukemic cells were used as the targets. these findings suggest that the bispecific ab can be used for immunotherapy in patients with cd10+ all.
spontaneous rupture of an aortic aneurysm into the left renal vein. a diagnostic challenge. rupture of an aortic aneurysm into a renal vein presents a rare and difficult diagnostic problem. often, therapy is delayed because the patient is thought to have a urologic problem. in this instance, ct scan provided useful clues leading to the diagnosis of this entity, and its rapid treatment. to our knowledge, this is the first ct scan done in a patient with aorto-renal vein fistula.
touch and surgical division of the anterior quadrant of the spinal cord. an investigation was carried out to determine whether tactile sensibility was affected by anterolateral cordotomy. there were 65 patients who had cordotomies for painful forms of cancer. thirty eight had necropsy examination with histological investigation of the spinal cord. no form of mechanoreception was removed in any of the 65 patients and in the majority no forms of tactile sensibility were altered by division of the pathways in the anterolateral and anterior columns. in no case was graphaesthesia affected. knowledge of joint position and movement and awareness of vibration was normal in 62 of the 65 patients. but information carried by these anterolateral pathways does reach neural levels of consciousness, for with total lesions of the posterior columns, previously reported, touch and pressure are still felt. itch was removed by division of the anterolateral pathways. although the posterior columns are essential for discrimination in mechanoreception, discrimination may be disturbed by lesions of the anterolateral pathways, notably two-point discrimination. the evidence on the pathways essential for conveying impulses giving rise to tickle was inconclusive.
immediate and short-term cardiovascular effects of fosinopril, a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in patients with essential hypertension. immediate and short-term cardiovascular effects of a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, fosinopril, were assessed in 10 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. administration of a 10 mg oral dose of fosinopril reduced mean arterial pressure (p less than 0.001) as a result of a 24% fall in total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.001). short-term therapy (12 weeks) maintained the decrease in mean arterial pressure (p less than 0.05) by decreasing total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.01), without reflexive cardiac stimulation or expanding intravascular volume. renal vascular resistance decreased (p less than 0.05) while renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction remained unchanged. the response pattern to mental, isometric and orthostatic stress was similarly unchanged. left ventricular mass diminished by 11% (p less than 0.01); myocardial contractility was unaffected. afterload was reduced (p less than 0.05), and velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and stroke volume increased (p less than 0.05). thus, arterial pressure reduction produced by fosinopril was associated with improved systemic and renal hemodynamics and reduced left ventricular mass.
prophylaxis of aphakic cystoid macular edema without corticosteroids. a paired-comparison, placebo-controlled double-masked study. prior investigations have reported that topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) therapy prevents the development of postoperative angiographic signs of angiographic cystoid macular edema (cme). however, these studies include concurrent use of corticosteroids. the current study reports therapeutic efficacy for ketorolac ophthalmic solution (an nsaid) in the prophylaxis of angiographic aphakic cme (acme) after cataract surgery without concurrent corticosteroids for the first time. fifty patients with bilateral cataracts were enrolled in this placebo-controlled, paired-comparison, double-masked study. eleven patients had evidence of angiographic acme on postoperative day 40. two of these patients demonstrated bilateral acme, one patient had acme in the nsaid-treated eye, and eight patients demonstrated acme in the placebo-treated eye. this is a statistically significant difference favoring drug treatment. the signs of anterior ocular inflammation were greater in the eyes with acme. this study suggests prophylactic treatment of acme may be possible without the risks of concurrent corticosteroid toxicity. in addition, a higher incidence of acme in black patients (22%) is observed in this study than has been recognized previously.
thrombin stimulates tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro and metastasis in vivo. recent studies have revealed a role for platelets and the platelet-adhesive proteins, fibronectin and von willebrand factor (vwf) in platelet-tumor cell interaction in vitro and metastasis in vivo. the present report documents the effect of thrombin treatment of platelets on this interaction in vitro and in vivo. in vitro, thrombin at 100-1,000 mu/ml maximally stimulated the adhesion of six different tumor cell lines from three different species two- to fivefold. as little as 1-10 mu/ml was effective. the effect of thrombin was specific (inhibitable by hirudin, dansyl-arginine n-(3-ethyl-1,5 pentanediyl) amide and unreactive with the inactive thrombin analogue n-p-tosyl-l-phenylchloromethylketone-thrombin and d-phenylalanyl-l-propyl-l-arginine chloromethylketone-thrombin (ppack-thrombin), and required high-affinity thrombin receptors (competition with ppack-thrombin but not with n-p-tosyl-l-lysine-chloromethyl-ketone-thrombin). functionally active thrombin was required on the platelet surface. binding of tumor cells to thrombin-activated platelets was inhibitable by agents known to interfere with the platelet gpiib-gpiiia integrin: monoclonal antibody 10e5, tetrapeptide rgds and gamma chain fibrinogen decapeptide lggakqagdv, as well as polyclonal antibodies against the platelet adhesive ligands, fibronectin and vwf. in vivo, thrombin at 250-500 mu per animal increased murine pulmonary metastases fourfold with ct26 colon carcinoma cells and 68-413-fold with b16 amelanotic melanoma cells. thus, thrombin amplifies tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro two- to fivefold via occupancy of high-affinity platelet thrombin receptors, and modulation of gpiib-gpiiia adhesion via an rgd-dependent mechanism. in vivo, thrombin enhances tumor metastases 4-413-fold with two different tumor cell lines.
intraoperative blood pressure. what patterns identify patients at risk for postoperative complications? while monitoring blood pressure is a routine part of intraoperative management, several methods have been proposed to characterize intraoperative hemodynamic patterns as predictors of postoperative complications. in this prospective study of a high-risk population of hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery, one objective was to compare different approaches to the assessment of intraoperative hemodynamic patterns to identify those patterns most likely to be associated with postoperative complications. twenty-one per cent of the 254 patients sustained cardiac or renal complications after operation. patients with more than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases in mean arterial pressure (map) or patients with less than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases and more than 15 minutes of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg increases were at highest risk for postoperative complications. together these two patterns had a 46% sensitivity rate and a 70% specificity rate in predicting postoperative complications. using 20% change in intraoperative map produced results nearly identical to 20-mmhg changes. when the duration of 20-mmhg changes was accounted for, changes of a greater magnitude (e.g., 40 mmhg) were not significant independent predictors of complications. the use of the mean difference from preoperative map was misleading because patients who experienced both high and low maps tended to have nearly normal mean maps, but high complication rates. the absolute magnitude of intraoperative maps, regardless of the preoperative levels, also was evaluated. the overall mean intraoperative map was not a significant predictor of complications. specific intraoperative maps (e.g., less than 70 mmhg and more than 120 mmhg) also were evaluated. while neither was a significant predictor, there was a trend for increased complications among patients whose maps decreased to less than 70 mmhg. intraoperative blood pressure should be analyzed in relation to the patient's preoperative blood pressure. prolonged changes of more than 20 mmhg or 20% in relation to preoperative levels were significantly related to complications.
a study of fatigue in systemic lupus erythematosus. fifty-nine patients with systemic lupus erythematosus were evaluated by questionnaires, histories, physical examinations and routine laboratory studies in order to better understand their fatigue. the fatigue severity scale (scored from 1 to 7) was used to measure fatigue and yielded a mean score +/- sd of 4.6 +/- 1.5. fifty-three percent of the patients reported that fatigue was their most disabling symptom. although perceived as severe, the symptom of fatigue did not correlate significantly with any of the laboratory measures. however, there was a significant correlation between fatigue and the physician's rating of disease activity. fatigue also correlated significantly with depression which accounted for 21% of the variation in fatigue scores.
endoscopic variceal ligation in patients who have failed endoscopic sclerotherapy. endoscopic variceal ligation has been developed as an alternative to endoscopic sclerotherapy. we report a series of 12 men with a history of bleeding esophageal varices who were treated with endoscopic variceal ligation after they had failed sclerotherapy. hemostasis was achieved in all 10 patients who were bleeding at the time of initial endoscopy and again in those who subsequently re-bled. over a follow-up period of up to 22 months, varices have been and remain eradicated in five patients; in four others, a reduction in grade was noted before death (two patients), liver transplant, or loss to follow-up (one patient each); two patients died before they could be re-evaluated, while in the remaining patient, no reduction in variceal grade was noted before loss to follow-up. no complication was recorded after 35 endoscopic treatment sessions involving a total of 245 rubber band ligations. our results indicate that endoscopic variceal ligation may be used with success in patients who fail sclerotherapy.
transoesophageal echocardiogram may fail to diagnose perioperative myocardial infarction. we report a case in which a 55-yr-old man undergoing aortocoronary bypass was monitored with electrocardiogram and transoesophageal echocardiogram. intraoperative electrocardiogram and simultaneous ecg recordings using the holter monitor showed an st elevation of greater than 2 mm and new q wave formation in leads avf and v5 during skin closure. however, the transoesophageal echocardiogram showed no wall motion abnormalities. no significant haemodynamic abnormalities were observed during the period of intraoperative ecg changes. he was treated with nitroglycerin infusion. confirmation of a perioperative myocardial infarct was documented by postoperative 12-lead ecg and cpk-mb. a post-operative transthoracic echocardiogram showed a hypokinetic left ventricle with an anteroapical infarct. thus transoesophageal echocardiography failed to detect an apical wall motion abnormality when the probe was placed at the midpapillary level. this limitation can be overcome by periodically obtaining apical views or by using probes with more than one imaging plane.
mitral valve prolapse. when is it serious? mitral valve prolapse can best be diagnosed with careful clinical evaluation, including dynamic auscultation. treatment consists of reassurance, pharmacotherapy for troublesome symptoms, and careful monitoring for signs of complications. most complications can be either prevented or treated.
thoracic succussion splash: a new symptom and sign of achalasia. a patient with a "thoracic succussion splash" due to achalasia is described. she noted a splashing or sloshing sensation in her chest related to jogging and bending. on examination a splashing sound could be heard over the mid sternum and the posterior chest when the patient was rocked vigorously back and forth.
natural evolution of cardiac function, cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model. serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in c3h/he mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis. postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 (20.7 +/- 5.5%, n = 6), 20 (18.6 +/- 15.2%, n = 5), 30 (18.5 +/- 7.7%, n = 5) and 150 (30.0 +/- 18.7, n = 6) (p less than 0.001) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice (63.3 +/- 3.1%, n = 6). in the same group of animals, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 (in six of six mice) and only slight accumulation on day 20 (in one of five mice). in the chronic stage, two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake. the antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio (expressed as mean count density [mean counts/pixel of the region] ratio) increased greatly on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice) but not subsequently. biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice) but not on days 20, 30 and 150. pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10. on day 20, there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin. on days 30 and 150, myocardial fibrosis increased.
flumazenil in ketamine and midazolam anaesthesia. a double-blind, parallel group study using flumazenil and placebo was carried out to determine whether patients who received flumazenil would awake more quickly and whether this drug would reverse the protection conferred by midazolam on the psychic sequelae of ketamine. fifty female patients were studied. the results showed that there was a significant reduction in awakening time (p = 0.02) and a very significant increase (p = 0.001) in the incidence of dreams in the flumazenil group.
laser photocoagulation control of diabetic macular oedema without fluorescein angiography. this study included 40 eyes in 22 diabetic patients with focal macular oedema. laser photocoagulation was directed at decompensated or leaking microvascular lesions clinically detected without using pretreatment fluorescein angiograms. post-treatment fluorescein angiograms performed after adequate clinical control of disease showed complete resolution of the macular oedema in 25 eyes (62.5%), whereas persistent leakage from microvascular lesions closer than 500 microns from the centre of the foveola was noted in 15 eyes (37.5%). these were clinically detected during the pretreatment examination and were found not to impair or threaten the patient's vision. our data confirm the clinical impression that fluorescein angiography is not necessary for effective treatment and should be used only if necessary.
cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after subclavian vein catheterization. a patient developed life-threatening cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after insertion of a subclavian catheter in the operating room. contrast was infused through the catheter, demonstrating its malposition in the pericardial space. contrast infusion was valuable in evaluating this complication of central line placement.
mefloquine kinetics in cured and recrudescent patients with acute falciparum malaria and in healthy volunteers. mefloquine pharmacokinetics were compared in a randomized clinical trial in thailand among patients with malaria and healthy volunteers. a single oral dose of 1500 mg mefloquine hydrochloride was administered to 11 patients and 5 volunteers and 750 mg was given to 16 patients and 5 volunteers. efficacy was 82% for 1500 mg and 63% for 750 mg. in cured patients taking 750 mg mefloquine, peak plasma drug concentration (cmax) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (auc) were significantly greater than in the patients for whom treatment failed (p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01, respectively), and plasma mefloquine levels were significantly higher from 8 hours to 18 days after treatment. mefloquine auc was reduced and variable in the presence of diarrhea. compared with noninfected volunteers, clinically ill patients displayed a delayed time to reach peak concentration (p less than 0.01) and significantly higher mefloquine plasma levels in the first 2 days after administration of either the 750 mg or the 1500 mg dose. mefloquine auc was similar in patients with malaria and healthy volunteers. because plasma levels increased in temporal relationship with clinical illness, mefloquine volume of distribution or clearance (or both) was reduced during the acute phase of illness.
the management of atypical non-cardiac chest pain. atypical, non-cardiac chest pain is common and disabling, and often persists despite negative medical investigations. aetiology is disputed and management is difficult. a multi-causal model in which both psychological and physical factors play a part is helpful; a fundamental factor is continued misinterpretation of minor physical symptoms as evidence of heart disease. we report supportive evidence and describe a psychological treatment derived from the model. in a randomized trial, cognitive behavioural methods were effective in reducing chest pain, disability and use of medication, in patients both with and without psychiatric disorder. the clinical implications are discussed.
spinal anaesthesia in day-care surgery with a 26-gauge needle. we studied 106 day-care surgical patients (52 male) aged 18-70 yr (mean 49.6 yr) who received spinal anaesthesia with a 26-gauge spinal needle. the incidence of headache, back pain and patient acceptability were investigated after operation using a questionnaire. the incidence of postspinal headache was 7.5%, and 11.3% of patients developed back pain. one patient remained in hospital because of hypotension and dizziness. there were no major complications and patient acceptability was almost 100%. we conclude that spinal anaesthesia for day-care surgery is easy to perform and cost effective.
mr imaging of blood-borne liver metastases in mice: contrast enhancement with fe-ehpg. to determine whether iron(iii)ethylenebis-(2-hydrophenylglycine) (fe-ehpg), a prototype hepatobiliary magnetic resonance imaging agent, can enhance the liver-to-tumor contrast-to-noise ratio (c/n) in models of liver tumors in mice, two types of cell inoculation were used: intrahepatic implantation of m5076 sarcoma and intrasplenic injection of colon tumor (c-26) or m5076 sarcoma. significant enhancement of the liver-to-tumor c/n and/or improved visualization of small lesions was consistently observed on t1-weighted images obtained after injection of the contrast material. for intrahepatic implants, the c/n on postinjection t1-weighted images was superior to that on t1- and t2-weighted preinjection images. for the c-26 metastatic liver lesions of larger diameter (greater than 5 mm), the c/n on postinjection t1-weighted studies was superior to that on preinjection t1-weighted images but was comparable to that on preinjection t2-weighted images. however, higher c/n after administration of fe-ehpg improved visualization of medium-sized (3-5 mm) and small (1-3-mm) metastatic lesions in both m5076 and c-26 models. these results demonstrate that mr imaging with appropriate hepatobiliary agents appears promising for early detection of liver metastases.
chromosome 15 uniparental disomy is not frequent in angelman syndrome. genetic imprinting has been implicated in the etiology of two clinically distinct but cytogenetically indistinguishable disorders--angelman syndrome (as) and prader-willi syndrome (pws). this hypothesis is derived from two lines of evidence. first, while the molecular extents of de novo cytogenetic deletions of chromosome 15q11q13 in as and pws patients are the same, the deletions originate from different parental chromosomes. in as, the deletion occurs in the maternally inherited chromosome 15, while in pws the deletion is found in the paternally inherited chromosome 15. the second line of evidence comes from the deletion of an abnormal parental contribution of 15q11q13 in pws patients without a cytogenetic and molecular deletion. these patients have two maternal copies and no paternal copy of 15q11q13 (maternal uniparental disomy) instead of one copy from each parent. by qualitative hybridization with chromosome 15q11q13 specific dna markers, we have now examined dna samples from 10 as patients (at least seven of which are familial cases) with no cytogenetic or molecular deletion of chromosome 15q11q13. inheritance of one maternal copy and one paternal copy of 15q11q13 was observed in each family, suggesting that paternal uniparental disomy of 15q11q13 is not responsible for expression of the as phenotype in these patients.
abnormal growth patterns and adult short stature in 115 long-term survivors of childhood leukemia. significant growth retardation was found in 115 survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) who had completed their growth. these children were diagnosed before 12 years of age and treated on four protocols in a single institution; all received either cranial (n = 78) or craniospinal (n = 37) prophylactic irradiation. patients' heights at diagnosis were within expected ranges, but final heights were greater than or equal to 1 sd below population means in 74% of cases and greater than or equal to 2 sd in 37%. effects on growth were more pronounced for children who had received craniospinal irradiation, but decrements were also significant in the cranial irradiation group, with adult heights greater than or equal to 2 sd below population norms in 32%. growth retardation was significantly greater (p less than .0001) in children who had earlier disease onset. growth deceleration occurred not only during chemotherapy but during a later period that followed an interval of improved growth in many cases. thus, late decrements in growth may be missed in studies that do not follow patients until they have attained final heights. these findings indicate that abnormally short stature among survivors of all merits further clinical and research attention.
spontaneous cerebral embolism from descending thoracic aortic aneurysm--a case report. a case in which an aneurysm of the proximal descending thoracic aorta was the likely source of retrograde cerebral embolism is described. atherosclerotic disease of the descending thoracic aorta should be considered as an unusual source of cerebral emboli.
decreased operative risk of surgical treatment of mitral regurgitation with or without coronary artery disease. the consecutive 2 year experience with patients undergoing first-time surgery for mitral regurgitation with and without coronary artery disease was reviewed. from january 1988 to january 1990, 127 patients with pure mitral regurgitation undergoing first-time operation were surgically treated. no other valve lesion, no reoperation and no congenital defects were included. the mean patient age was 62 years with 26% of the patients greater than 70 years. twenty-six percent of the entire group was in functional class iv. seventy-five patients received mitral valve repair and 52 underwent mitral valve replacement with a st. jude or hancock valve. in patients undergoing mitral valve repair, there was a higher incidence of those greater than 70 years old and of coronary artery disease and in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement there was a higher incidence of functional class iv. the operative mortality rate was 2.3% (3 of 127 patients). no patient failed to be discontinued from cardiopulmonary bypass and all three deaths occurred after mitral valve replacement, with one from complications of chronic renal failure and dialysis. there was no significant difference in patients who either did or did not have a concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and there was no difference related to age or functional class. postoperative complications occurred in five patients in the valve repair group, including recurrent mitral regurgitation in two necessitating reoperation, and in three patients in the valve replacement group. with newer operative and postoperative management techniques, especially preservation of the papillary muscle annular continuity, the risk of mitral valve surgery, particularly of valve repair, is considerably lower than in previous years.
colonoscopy without prior preparation in mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis. we evaluated the effect of different types of preparations on the diagnostic yield of colonoscopy (total or limited) in mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis. our ability to determine the extent of disease and see the mucosa beyond the inflamed areas was assessed in patients receiving no preparation (group a, 72 examinations) and those receiving diphosphosoda enemas (group b, 181 examinations). there were three failures in group a and 11 in group b. in the majority of patients (71% of group a, 83% of group b) the scope could be passed under optimal viewing conditions at least one segment beyond the involved area. in group a the cecum was reached in 16% of the procedures and in group b in 18%. we conclude that in mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis, colonoscopy can be performed without preparation, and still achieve the same results as with preparatory enemas.
contribution of transesophageal echocardiography to patient diagnosis and treatment: a prospective analysis. the capability of transesophageal (tee) versus transthoracic (tte) echocardiography as a diagnostic tool in clinical practice was prospectively examined in 86 consecutive cases. a conclusive diagnosis was possible in 95% with tee, whereas the same result was achieved in 48% by tte. specifically, tee provided a conclusive diagnosis in 14 of 16 cases of infective endocarditis, while tte gave this result in 4 of the 16 cases (p less than 0.001). similarly, tee allowed a conclusive diagnosis in 11 of 11 instances of aortic dissection, while tte gave this indication in two cases (p less than 0.001). tee was similarly effective in eight of eight cases of atrial thrombi, whereas tte gave the diagnosis in three of eight cases (p less than 0.01). in five subjects with intracardiac masses, tee gave a conclusive diagnosis in all five, whereas tte was able to diagnose conclusively in one subject (p less than 0.02). in seven patients with mitral regurgitation, tee gave the conclusive diagnosis in all seven and tte was able to provide this information in four (p = ns). tee was able to provide a conclusive diagnosis in four patients with aortic insufficiency, and tte gave the same information in two of the four (p = ns). in 14 patients with prosthetic valve dysfunction, tee gave the diagnosis in 12 and tte gave it in eight patients (p = ns). both methods gave a conclusive diagnosis in 13 out of 13 cases of mitral stenosis (p = ns). also, tee provided a conclusive diagnosis in eight of eight patients with adult congenital heart disease and tte gave this information in four (p = ns).
the associated anomalies that determine prognosis in congenital omphaloceles. cogenital abdominal wall defects such as omphaloceles can be recognized by fetal ultrasonography. to determine whether associated anatomic features may be useful in determining fetal prognosis, a retrospective study was performed over a 5-year period. there were 28 cases of omphalocele; 16 were larger than 5 cm and classified as giant, and the remainder were considered small. eleven of the 12 infants with small omphaloceles survived with minimal neonatal complications. ten of the 16 infants with giant omphaloceles died because of associated congenital anomalies. these were congenital heart disease, central nervous system malformations, and diaphragmatic hernias. this review suggests that the prognosis is good when a prenatal diagnosis of giant omphalocele is made and careful fetal ultrasonography, including echocardiography, does not identify heart, central nervous system, or diaphragmatic malformations, even when there is liver herniation into the omphalocele.
severe anterior segment inflammation following corneal surgery for keratoconus. we present three keratoconus patients who experienced severe anterior segment inflammation, two following penetrating keratoplasty, and one following epikeratoplasty. a favorable response to indomethacin therapy in the second eyes of these patients suggests that the inflammation in the first ones was prostaglandin mediated.
phenotypic and functional characterization of t cells from patients with myasthenia gravis. a study of cell surface phenotypes of pbl of myasthenia gravis (mg) patients showed that their t cells had a significantly higher percentage of 4b4+ t cells (the helper/inducer subset) than age- and sex-matched controls. the pbl of mg patients proliferated significantly higher than those of normal subjects (ns) in response to the purified alpha chain of the acetylcholine receptor (achr). anti-achr antibody was present in sera of 88% of mg and none of the ns. the pbl b cells from mg only, when cultured with autologous t cells and stimulated with either pokeweed mitogen (69%), or achr-alpha chain (38%), secreted antibody to achr-alpha chain, whereas t and b cells alone secreted no antibody. t cells from pbl of mg patients were more readily cloned than t cells of ns, by limiting dilution, in the presence of recombinant il-2 and in the absence of achr-alpha chain. about 50% of t cell clones from mg patients, compared to none from ns, proliferated to achr-alpha chain. this response was hla-dr restricted. mg t cell clones did not display significant cytotoxic activity, as compared to control t cell clones. our results indicate that in mg, 4b4+ regulatory t cells play their role in the pathogenesis of mg, not by cytotoxicity, but more likely by their ability to stimulate specific antibody production by b cells.
diphenylhydantoin-induced hypogammaglobulinemia in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus. a case is reported of reversible panhypogammaglobulinemia in a human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patient. onset and resolution were temporally correlated with initiation and termination, respectively, of diphenylhydantoin therapy for a possible seizure. a rapid alteration in peripheral t-cell subpopulations was also noted in association with diphenylhydantoin administration. this case is compared with previous reports of diphenylhydantoin-associated hypogammaglobulinemia in non-hiv-infected patients. in addition, the case is discussed with regard to possible deleterious effects associated with the use of diphenylhydantoin as therapy for hiv-associated seizures or as an antiretroviral agent in hiv disease.
altered waveform of plasma nocturnal melatonin secretion in premenstrual depression. the nocturnal secretion of plasma melatonin was determined under dim to dark conditions in eight patients with prospectively confirmed premenstrual syndrome and in eight age- and menstrual cycle phase-matched normal control subjects. plasma samples for melatonin were collected every 30 minutes from 6 pm to 9 am during the early follicular, late follicular, midluteal and late luteal phases of the menstrual cycle. compared with normal controls, patients with premenstrual syndrome had an earlier (phase-advanced) offset of melatonin secretion, which contributed to a shorter secretion duration and a decreased area under the curve. no statistically significant differences were found between women with premenstrual syndrome and normal controls for melatonin onset or peak concentration, or for estradiol or progesterone levels. the data demonstrate that women with premenstrual syndrome have chronobiological abnormalities of melatonin secretion. the fact that these patients respond to treatments that affect circadian physiology, such as sleep deprivation and phototherapy, suggests that circadian abnormalities may contribute to the pathogenesis of premenstrual syndrome.
ascites not due to congestive heart failure in a fetus with lupus-induced heart block. hydrops developing in fetuses with lupus-associated heart block has usually been assumed to result from congestive heart failure. we present a case in which fetal ascites associated with complete heart block resolved promptly after administration of betamethasone and prednisone to the mother, who had anti-ssa and who developed clinical lupus erythematosus. this resolution occurred with no demonstrable change in fetal cardiac function. we conclude that an immune mechanism, rather than congestive heart failure, was responsible for the fetal ascites.
multisurface method of pattern separation for medical diagnosis applied to breast cytology. multisurface pattern separation is a mathematical method for distinguishing between elements of two pattern sets. each element of the pattern sets is comprised of various scalar observations. in this paper, we use the diagnosis of breast cytology to demonstrate the applicability of this method to medical diagnosis and decision making. each of 11 cytological characteristics of breast fine-needle aspirates reported to differ between benign and malignant samples was graded 1 to 10 at the time of sample collection. nine characteristics were found to differ significantly between benign and malignant samples. mathematically, these values for each sample were represented by a point in a nine-dimensional space of real variables. benign points were separated from malignant ones by planes determined by linear programming. correct separation was accomplished in 369 of 370 samples (201 benign and 169 malignant). in the one misclassified malignant case, the fine-needle aspirate cytology was so definitely benign and the cytology of the excised cancer so definitely malignant that we believe the tumor was missed on aspiration. our mathematical method is applicable to other medical diagnostic and decision-making problems.
correlation of apache ii score, drainage technique and outcome in postoperative intra-abdominal abscess. the apache ii score was used to stratify retrospectively severity of illness in 91 patients postoperatively undergoing drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses. the method of initial abscess drainage (percutaneous or operative) was selected by the attending physician. the two groups of patients, those whose initial drainage was performed percutaneously versus operatively were similar with respect to age, sex, abscess location and, most importantly, severity of illness as assessed by the apache ii score calculated on the day of their abscess drainage. over-all, the mortality rate was 29 per cent (26 of 91 patients). only 1.7 per cent of the patients with an apache ii score of less than 15 died compared with 78 per cent when apache ii was equal to or more than 15 (p less than 0.0001). only 8 per cent of patients with apache ii equal to or more than 15 undergoing percutaneous drainage survived compared with 30 per cent of patients who underwent surgical drainage procedures. while chi-square analysis demonstrated independence between outcome and drainage technique, outcome was dependent upon severity of illness (p less than 0.0005). paradoxically, despite the attractiveness of a percutaneous technique for abscess drainage in the most ill patients, in this series, a better, although not statistically improved, chance for survival was noted with surgical treatment. we recommend that an objective severity scoring system be used whenever assessing results of treatment of intraabdominal infection and that surgical treatment not be avoided because the patient is considered to be too ill.
effect of synchronous increase in intrathoracic pressure on cardiac performance during acute endotoxemia. in the anesthetized closed-chest canine model of gram-negative endotoxemia (n = 10), we tested the hypothesis that the effect of cardiac cycle-specific intrathoracic pressure pulses delivered by a heart rate-(hr) synchronized high-frequency jet ventilator (sync hfjv) on systolic ventricular performance is dependent on the level of preload. to control for hfjv frequency, hemodynamic responses were also measured at fixed frequency within 15% of hr (async hfjv). biventricular stroke volumes (sv) were measured by electromagnetic flow probes. measurements were made before (baseline) and 30 min after infusion of 1 mg/kg escherichia coli endotoxin (serotype 055:b5) and then after 2 mg/kg propranolol at both low (less than 10 mmhg) left ventricular filling pressure (lvfp) and high (greater than 10 mmhg) lvfp. ventricular function curves, aortic pressure-flow (p-q) relationships, and venous return (vr) curves were analyzed. we found that endotoxin did not alter vr curves but shifted the aortic p-q curves to the left with pressure on the x-axis (p less than 0.05). volume loading increased sv (p less than 0.01) because of a rightward shift of the vr curve. no specific differences occurred with either sync or async hfjv during endotoxin, presumably because of preserved vr and shifted aortic p-q. the lack of cardiac cycle-specific effects of itp appears to be due to the selective endotoxin-induced changes in peripheral vasomotor tone that counterbalance any depressed myocardial contractility.
severe aortic regurgitation as a late complication of temporal arteritis. two patients with a remote history of pathologically documented giant cell arteritis developed severe regurgitation. the first patient developed severe aortic regurgitation five years after the pathologic documentation of giant cell arteritis of the temporal arteries. giant cell arteritis involvement of the aortic root was confirmed. the second patient developed aortic regurgitation seven years after pathologic documentation of giant cell arteries of the temporal arteries. although pathologic confirmation of the aortic root process was not obtained, this case strengthens the clinical association between giant cell arteritis of the temporal arteries and subsequent aortic root dilatation and severe aortic regurgitation. observation for signs of de novo severe aortic regurgitation is indicated in follow-up of patients with temporal arteritis.
empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host. review of the literature and guidelines for use. persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia. clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi. until recently, data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports. evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series: febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4- to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy. patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs. amphotericin b has been the "gold standard" for empiric antifungal therapy, although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations.
susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis: human leukocyte antigens dr4 and a1-b8-dr3 are independent risk factors. after nearly 18 years of research, the association between human leukocyte antigens a1-b8-dr3 and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis still provokes debate. the principal reasons for this are disease heterogeneity and racial variation in the distribution of human leukocyte antigens between populations. the aim of the present study was to reexamine the relationship between these antigens and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a well-characterized series of patients. ninety-six outpatients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and an additional 14 referred for liver transplantation with end-stage autoimmune chronic active hepatitis were studied. human leukocyte antigen frequencies were compared with those of 100 racially and geographically matched controls. the a1-b8-dr3 haplotype was present in 38% of patients compared with 11% of controls (chi 2 = 20.6, p less than 0.0005). when all the dr3-positive patients were eliminated, there was a striking secondary association with dr4; 35 (80%) of 44 remaining patients were dr4 positive compared with 31 (39%) of 79 dr3-negative controls (fisher's exact probability test p = 0.000031, pc = 0.0013). in addition patients with a1-b8-dr3 are seen at a significantly younger age than those without (39.75 yr vs. 48.21 yr, p less than 0.025), relapse more frequently (52% of patients with a1-b8-dr3 relapsed on one or more occasions compared with 34% of patients without this haplotype) and are more frequently referred for liver transplantation. these data indicate for the first time that two genes within the major histocompatibility complex closely linked to the dr3 and dr4 genes independently confer susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis.
surgery for acute and chronic cholecystitis. cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy remain appropriate and effective therapy for acute and chronic cholecystitis. cholecystectomy is the gold standard against which all alternative methods of treatment of inflammatory biliary stone disease should be judged. the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and surgical treatment of acute and chronic cholecystitis have been described. techniques of cholecystostomy, cholecystectomy, and intraoperative cholangiography used by the author have been given. our results and those generally described in the literature indicate that the overall mortality rate for cholecystectomy, in all age groups, is approximately 0.5%. this rate increases slightly in patients with acute cholecystitis and in those over the age of 65 years. cholecystectomy remains the most effective and the definitive treatment for acute and chronic cholecystitis.
fludarabine: a new agent with marked cytoreductive activity in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. thirty-three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) with advanced rai stage (iii-iv) or progressive rai stage (0-ii) disease were treated with fludarabine as a single agent. eleven patients (33%) obtained a complete remission (cr), 13 (39%) a clinical cr with residual nodules as the only evidence of disease (nodular partial remission [pr]), and two patients (6%) achieved a pr for a total response rate of 79%. response was rapid, usually occurring after three to six courses of treatment. the major morbidity was infection. febrile episodes occurred in 13% of the courses (pneumonia 6%, minor infection 4%, and transient fever of undocumented cause 3%). fludarabine appears to be the most cytoreductive single agent so far studied in cll.
salvage of branch vessels during bifurcation lesion angioplasty: acute and long-term follow-up. to evaluate angiographic success, frequency of branch vessel loss and salvage, and long-term outcome, we studied the early and late outcomes of 56 consecutive patients who underwent ptca of bifurcation lesions, which involved the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary artery, with stenoses greater than 70% in both the parent and an involved branch vessel. in 35 patients (63%), the ptca strategy was attempted dilation of both the main vessel and the involved branch vessels using predominantly a double-wire, sequential balloon technique; in 21 (27%) the ptca attempt was confined to the main vessel alone. transient angiographic occlusion of the branch vessel occurred in 32% of patients in whom dilation of both vessels was attempted, and in 38% in whom the main vessel alone was dilated (p = ns); 91% of the occluded branch vessels were the salvaged when sequential angioplasty of both vessels had been initially planned, compared to only 38% when the initial strategy had been dilation of the main vessel alone (p less than .05). predischarge exercise testing showed residual ischemia in 6% of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated, versus 37% in those in whom dilatation was confined to the main vessels (p less than .01). clinical restenosis, defined as late (greater than 6 weeks) recurrence of angina or a positive exercise test, occurred in 42% of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated. thus although bifurcation lesion angioplasty frequently results in transient branch vessel loss, these branches can usually be salvaged using a double-wire technique but tend to have a higher late restenosis than conventional single vessel ptca.
transfer of secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi apparatus: discrimination between homologous and heterologous transfer in intact heterokaryons. to examine aspects of the transfer of secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi apparatus in situ, heterokaryons were formed between hep g2 human hepatoma cells and wi-38 human fibroblasts. the cells were appropriately treated with cycloheximide before fusion, which emptied them of their respective secretory proteins, serum albumin for the hep g2 cells and procollagen i for the wi-38 cells. after fusion was complete, the cycloheximide was washed out, protein synthesis was resumed, and the rates of reappearance of serum albumin and procollagen i in the two separated golgi apparatuses within each heterokaryon were followed by immunofluorescence microscopy. serum albumin was found to always reappear first in the golgi apparatus contributed by the hep g2 half of the heterokaryon, and procollagen i in the golgi apparatus of the wi-38 half. these results suggest that the endoplasmic reticulum-to-golgi apparatus transfer in situ is not simply a stochastic process but is either spatially restricted or exhibits cell-type specificity or both.
hip pain in late pregnancy. hip pain in late pregnancy is quite common, and its etiology is rarely established unless acute demineralization occurs. we measured the bone mineral content of both hips in 26 women within 48 hours of delivery. twelve of 36 densities (33%) were decreased in a group with severe pain when compared to 12 of 120 decreased densities (10%) in the remaining patients (p less than .05). those data suggest that severe hip pain may be related to a decrease in bone mineral content.
suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis: case report. a rare case of suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis in a 53-year-old woman is presented. the tumor was located exclusively above the diaphragma sellae, and no invasion into the sella turcica was noted.
superior protective effect of low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution on ischemic myocardium. clinical study in comparison with st. thomas' hospital solution. the protective effect of low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution on ischemic myocardium has been assessed in adult patients undergoing heart operations. postreperfusion recovery of cardiac function and electrical activity was evaluated in 34 patients; 16 received low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution (group i) and 18 received st. thomas' hospital solution, which is enriched with calcium and magnesium (group ii). there were no significant differences between the two groups in age, sex, body weight, and new york heart association functional class. aortic occlusion time (107.3 +/- 46.8 minutes versus 113.6 +/- 44.3 minutes), highest myocardial temperature during elective global ischemia (11.5 degrees c +/- 3.1 degrees c versus 9.3 degrees c +/- 3.2 degrees c), and total volume of cardioplegic solution (44.2 +/- 20.5 ml/kg versus 43.4 +/- 17.6 ml/kg) were also similar in the two groups. on reperfusion, electrical defibrillation was required in four cases (25.5%) in group i and in 15 cases (83.3%) in group ii (p less than 0.005), and bradyarrhythmias were significantly more prevalent in group ii (6.3% versus 44.4%; p less than 0.05). serum creatine kinase mb activity at 15 minutes of reperfusion (12.3 +/- 17.0 iu/l versus 42.6 +/- 46.1 iu/l; p less than 0.05) and the dose of dopamine or dobutamine required during the early phase of reperfusion (1.8 +/- 2.5 micrograms/kg/min versus 6.1 +/- 3.3 micrograms/kg/min; p less than 0.0002) were both significantly greater in group ii. postischemic left ventricular function, as assessed by percent recovery of the left ventricular end-systolic pressure-volume relationship in patients who underwent aortic valve replacement alone, was significantly better in group i (160.4% +/- 45.5% versus 47.8% +/- 12.9%; p less than 0.05). serum level of calcium and magnesium ions was significantly lower in group i. thus low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution provided excellent protection of the ischemic heart, whereas st. thomas' hospital solution with calcium and magnesium enabled relatively poor functional and electrical recovery of the heart during the early reperfusion period. these results might be related to differing levels of extracellular calcium and magnesium on reperfusion.
gait analysis in the treatment of the ambulatory child with cerebral palsy. surgical treatment of children with cerebral palsy has changed from staged, single joint procedures to comprehensive simultaneous bony and soft-tissue corrections. this regimen of treating multiple joint levels and planes of abnormality is subject to error when based solely on the clinical examination. a more scientific evaluation can be provided by the use of clinical gait analysis. both preoperative and postoperative analyses provide the clinician with information from which neurologic patterns can be determined and surgical protocols can be judged.
post-caesarean section analgesia: a comparison of epidural butorphanol and morphine. epidural butorphanol 1, 2 and 4 mg were compared with morphine, 5 mg, for postoperative analgesia in 92 consenting, healthy, term parturients who had undergone caesarean section under epidural lidocaine anaesthesia in a randomized double-blind study. postoperative pain was assessed using a visual analogue scale and recorded with heart rate, blood pressure and respiratory rate. the demographic characteristics, and the incidences of primary and repeat caesarean sections, were not different among the four treatment groups. at 15, 30, 45 and 60 min after treatment the median pain scores following butorphanol were similar and lower than those following morphine (p less than 0.05). calculated median percentage pain relief values for butorphanol were higher than morphine at each of these times (p less than 0.05). at 90 min and 2 hr the pain scores and pain relief values were similar. beyond 45 min the number of patients requesting supplemental medication and dropping out of the study increased progressively in both the butorphanol and morphine treated patients. the attrition profiles for butorphanol were different from morphine (p less than 0.01). the median time in the study was greater than 24 hr for morphine, and 3, 2.5 and 4 hr for butorphanol, 1, 2 or 4 mg, respectively. no patient developed a clinically important change in heart rate or blood pressure, and none experienced a decrease in respiratory rate below 12 breaths.min-1. one of 69 patients (1.4 per cent) who received butorphanol developed pruritus compared with ten (43 per cent) of 23 patients who received morphine. the global assessments of the adequacy of analgesia were indistinguishable between morphine and butorphanol. epidural butorphanol provides safe, effective postoperative analgesia, has a prompt onset, and a limited duration.
disability in persons hospitalized with aids. this study documents the types and degree of disability seen in persons with aids at discharge from acute hospitalization. based on 37 discharge evaluations using the functional independence measure (fim), 60% required human assistance in at least one of 18 fim areas. thirty-two percent required human assistance in five or more areas. fifty-one and 38% required human assistance in stair climbing and ambulation, respectively. feeding and bathing required assistance in about 33% and transferring to tub or shower in 25% of the sample. increasing disability was associated with longer duration of aids diagnosis and increasing lengths of hospital stay (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05, respectively). there were individuals who remained nearly functionally independent up to 30 months after an aids defining event. the overall variability in function, however, was not significantly different between those with diagnoses less than and greater than 12 months. we conclude that significant physical disability exists in persons with aids at discharge from acute hospitalization. consultation with and intervention by rehabilitation professionals may be helpful in the management of physical disability in this population and setting.
calcium and contractile responses to phorbol esters and the calcium channel agonist, bay k 8644, in arteries from hypertensive rats. this study examined the calcium dependency of contractions in arteries from rats made hypertensive by aortic coarctation and in rats with genetic hypertensive (stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats). mesenteric artery and aortic strips were suspended in tissue baths for isometric force recording and contractions to two drugs were characterized: 1) a phorbol ester, tpa (12-o-tetrade-canoylphorbol-13-acetate), and 2) the calcium channel agonist, bay k 8644. thoracic aortae and mesenteric arteries from hypertensive rats were more sensitive to the contractile properties of the protein kinase c activator tpa than comparable arteries from normotensive rats. in thoracic aortae from coarcted rats, the contractile activity of bay k 8644 was potentiated compared to normotensive values. in the presence of 19.2 mmol/l kcl, responses to bay k 8644 in thoracic aortae from normotensive rats were potentiated and did not differ from coarcted values. in contrast, contractions to bay k 8644 and tpa in abdominal aortae obtained below the coarctation were not different from normotensive values. upon exposure to 26.2 mmol/l kcl, contractions to bay k 8644 in abdominal aortae were potentiated and those in aortae from coarcted rats did not differ from sham values. contractile responses to both drugs were blocked by nifedipine and verapamil and responses were attenuated in calcium-free solution. we conclude that calcium channel function and its regulation by protein kinase c contribute to altered vascular reactivity in hypertension. further, these abnormalities have a pressure dependency, because they did not occur in abdominal aortae from coarcted rats.
effect of cardiac output reduction on rate of desaturation in obstructive apnea. the nadir of sao2 during an obstructive apnea is dependent upon the apnea's duration and the rate of fall of saturation (dsao2/dt). we postulated that a low q, such as in patients with congestive heart failure with sleep apnea, or a reduction in q, as seen in some humans during obstructive sleep apnea, might steepen dsao2/dt. the mechanism postulated was lowering of svo2 with increased pulmonary capillary blood oxygen uptake and faster depletion of alveolar oxygen. this study examines dsao2/dt following the onset of apnea in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons. nonrepetitive obstructive apneas (30, 45, and 60 seconds) were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at the end of expiration. following baseline measurements, the animals were given a bolus of a rapid-acting beta-adrenergic blocker followed by continuous infusion to reduce cardiac output and to limit the cardiovascular response to obstructive asphyxia. fiberoptic catheters were used for continuous monitoring of sao2, svo2, and cardiac output. esophageal pressure and relative thoracic gas volume (respitrace) were monitored to insure equivalence of lung volume at the onset of apnea. beta-adrenergic blockade reduced resting q by a mean of 25 percent. the blocked vs unblocked dsao2/dt was 0.73 vs 0.72 percent/s, 0.76 vs 0.73 percent/s, and 0.70 vs 0.71 percent/s for 30-second, 45-second, and 60-second apneas, respectively. thus, mean dsao2/dt for all durations of apneas was unaffected by beta-adrenergic blockade. we concluded that dsao2/dt is not influenced by limited q preceding or induced by obstructive asphyxia.
multiple representations of pain in human cerebral cortex. the representation of pain in the cerebral cortex is less well understood than that of any other sensory system. however, with the use of magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography in humans, it has now been demonstrated that painful heat causes significant activation of the contralateral anterior cingulate, secondary somatosensory, and primary somatosensory cortices. this contrasts with the predominant activation of primary somatosensory cortex caused by vibrotactile stimuli in similar experiments. furthermore, the unilateral cingulate activation indicates that this forebrain area, thought to regulate emotions, contains an unexpectedly specific representation of pain.
intraoperative radioimmunodetection of ovarian cancer using monoclonal antibody b72.3 and a portable gamma-detecting probe. to assess the value of radioimmunoguided surgery in the intraoperative detection of ovarian cancer, we used monoclonal antibody b72.3, radiolabeled with 125i, and a hand-held gamma-detecting probe in 13 women with ovarian cancer undergoing exploratory laparotomy. b72.3, which recognizes a tumor-associated glycoprotein, tag 72, was injected 12-29 days preoperatively (intraperitoneally in four cases, intravenously in nine, and by both routes in one). intraoperatively, the abdomen was surveyed with the probe and probe counts were correlated with biopsies and excised specimens studied by routine histologic stains. probe counts were positive in four of seven evaluable patients with histologically confirmed disease. in three of these four patients, the probe detected cancer in specimens interpreted as normal on frozen histologic sections. the probe also identified microscopic cancer in the one patient who had no gross disease. the specificity of the probe was 70%. preoperative computed tomography was normal in all patients, including those with tumors as large as 3 cm. this pilot study shows the ability of radioimmunoguided surgery to detect occult ovarian cancer.
neutrophil dysfunction in glycogen storage disease ib: association with crohn's-like colitis. two cases of patients with crohn's-like colitis and glycogen storage disease ib have been reported previously. in the current report, chronic inflammatory bowel disease that developed in another adolescent with this glycogenosis is described, thereby corroborating the association. the neutrophil dysfunction observed in glycogen storage disease ib is the most likely predisposing factor. neutrophil function was investigated in our patient in an attempt to shed light on the pathogenesis of his intestinal inflammation. the patient displayed reduced neutrophil chemotaxis to zymosan-activated serum, n-formyl-methionine-phenylalanine, and escherichia coli bacteria-derived factor and reduced intracellular killing of staphylococcus aureus 502a. others have found this defective bacteriocidal activity to be caused by impaired oxidative metabolism. the recent recognition of chronic inflammatory bowel disease in glycogen storage disease ib, as well as in chronic granulomatous disease, suggests that further study of respiratory burst activity of neutrophils in crohn's disease is warranted.
effect of coronary occlusion and myocardial viability on myocardial activity of technetium-99m-sestamibi the timing effect of sestamibi administration with respect to the onset of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion was studied in swine. in different groups of animals sestamibi was administered prior to coronary artery occlusion, during occlusion, or 1/2 hour following reperfusion. sestamibi administered prior to coronary occlusion resulted in an insignificant decrease in 99mtc activity in the ischemic zone. however, infarct zone activity was reduced to 62 +/- 14% of the nonischemic zone. in contrast, administration during coronary occlusion resulted in similar significant reductions of both ischemic and infarct zone activity. administration of sestamibi during reperfusion resulted in normal ischemic zone activity and markedly reduced activity in the infarct zone. significantly reduced activity in the infarct zone was found to be independent of the timing of sestamibi administration with respect to the onset of myocardial ischemia and/or reperfusion. thus, cell viability appears required for uptake and retention of isotope activity.
new active analogues of vitamin d with low calcemic activity. in conclusion, a number vitamin d analogues have been developed that have very low calcemic activity but retain several other properties of 1,25-(oh)2d3, including the ability to differentiate leukemia and skin cells, to enhance the immune response, and to suppress parathyroid hormone levels. although the mechanism of this selective activity is not yet clear, these analogues may provide new insights into the differences in action of 1,25-(oh)2d3 in various target tissues. most importantly, the selective action of these analogues may be exploited for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia, psoriasis and hyperparathyroidism.
recurrent intracaval renal cell carcinoma: the role of intravascular ultrasonography. the presence of extension into the vena cava does not preclude curative resection for extensive renal cell carcinomas. however, preoperative assessment of (1) the proximal extent of the tumor and (2) the degree of adherence within the vena cava is necessary to plan operative strategies. the following report describes the successful use of intravascular ultrasonography in the preoperative evaluation of a patient with recurrent renal cell carcinoma with vena caval extension.
surgical treatment of hydatid disease of the liver. a 20-year experience. the medical records of 135 consecutive patients (74 women and 61 men) who underwent surgery for hydatid liver disease were reviewed. the patients ranged in age from 4 to 81 years. twenty-seven patients had undergone previous surgery for hydatid liver disease. cysts were solitary in 100 patients and multiple in 35 patients. seventeen patients had concomitant extrahepatic disease. conservative procedures were used in 71 patients (capitonnage in 50 patients and partial pericystectomy in 21 patients). radical procedures were used in 64 patients (total pericystectomy in 35 patients, subtotal pericystectomy in 16 patients, and wedge or major liver resection in 13 patients). operative mortality was 2.2% and morbidity rate was 23.7%. recurrent disease was found in 13 patients at a mean interval of 3 years from the first operation. better short- and long-term results were obtained with the use of radical procedures.
results of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd) is complicated by the diffuse, obstructive, calcific arteriopathy that makes anastomotic technique especially critical. furthermore, decreased resistance to infection and impaired wound healing produced by host-factor deficiencies such as diabetes mellitus, hypoalbuminemia, uremia, and immunosuppression produce additional obstacles to successful limb salvage. this report summarizes our experience with distal arterial bypass procedures in these patients. a total of 32 bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage in 24 patients (17 diabetic) during a period of 5 years. the operative mortality rate was 6%. during the same period, 635 infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed by the in situ technique in patients without esrd. primary bypass patency was comparable in both groups at 24 months (92% vs 90%). in the group with esrd, overall limb salvage was 83% at 2 years. life-table analysis of bypass patency and limb salvage was thought not to be appropriate in the population with esrd beyond 2 years because of the increased mortality rate (38%; 9/24) during this interval. it is important that limb salvage was achieved in diabetic patients with esrd in the presence of extensive foot gangrene or ischemic ulceration. revascularization should be considered strongly for limb salvage in all patients in this difficult population.
trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation. trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects. detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content. detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling, because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait. we report a patient with chronic neutropenia, mild mental retardation, and low sulfur content in hair. our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy.
early results of combined electrohydraulic shock-wave lithotripsy and oral litholytic therapy of gallbladder stones at the university of iowa. one hundred thirty-three patients were entered into a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy for symptomatic gallstones versus extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy plus adjuvant litholytic therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid (udca). six months after lithotripsy, patients receiving placebo were crossed over to udca therapy without unblinding the study. one hundred sixteen patients have completed 6 months of follow-up. five patients were dropped from the study. nine percent have required cholecystectomy (11 patients with biliary colic and 1 with acute cholecystitis). ninety-one patients had a solitary stone (64 patients had stones less than or equal to 20 mm and 27 patients had stones greater than 20 mm in diameter), and 25 patients had two to three stones. fifty percent were retreated. cumulative stone-free rates at 6, 12, and 18 months were 26%, 39%, and 41%, respectively. at 6 months there was a significant advantage for patients treated with udca versus placebo (36% vs 17% were stone free) that had disappeared by 12 months (placebo-treated patients had received 6 months of udca). patients with solitary stones equal to or less than 20 mm in diameter treated with udca had stone-free rates at 6, 12, and 18 months of 58%, 58%, and 62%, respectively, versus 27%, 56%, and 50%. the difference was significant only at the 6- month follow-up. stone-free rates for patients with large solitary stones and multiple stones were very low. extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is both safe and effective therapy for treatment of symptomatic gallstones in patients with a solitary stone equal to or less than 20 mm in diameter. udca markedly improves the efficiency of the procedure and results in a stone-free gallbladder sooner.
role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury of the rabbit lung. reactive oxygen species are a major cause of damage occurring in ischemic tissue after reperfusion. during reperfusion transitional metals such as iron are required for reactive oxygen species to mediate their major toxic effects. xanthine oxidase is an important source of reactive oxygen species during ischemia-reperfusion injury, but not in all organs or species. because cytochrome p-450 enzymes are an important pulmonary source of superoxide anion (o2-.) generation under basal conditions and during hyperoxia, and provide iron catalysts necessary for hydroxyl radical (.oh) formation and propagation of lipid peroxidation, we postulated that cytochrome p-450 might have a potential role in mediating ischemia-reperfusion injury. in this report, we explored the role of cytochrome p-450 enzymes in a rabbit model of reperfusion lung injury. the p-450 inhibitors 8-methoxypsoralen, piperonyl butoxide, and cimetidine markedly decreased lung edema from transvascular fluid flux. cimetidine prevented the reperfusion-related increase in lung microvascular permeability, as measured by movement of 125i-albumin from the vascular space into lung water and alveolar fluid. p-450 inhibitors also prevented the increase in lung tissue levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive products in the model. p-450 inhibitors did not block enhanced o2-. generation by ischemic reperfused lungs, measured by in vivo reduction of succinylated ferricytochrome c in lung perfusate, but did prevent the increase in non-protein-bound low molecular weight chelates of iron after reperfusion. thus, cytochrome p-450 enzymes are not likely a major source of enhanced o2-. generation, but serve as an important source of iron in mediating oxidant injury to the rabbit lung during reperfusion. these results suggest an important role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury to the lung and suggest potential new therapies for the disorder.
strokes in african-americans. hypertension is the most important risk factor for stroke, especially in african-americans. improved control of high blood pressure nationwide is a key factor in the recent dramatic decline in stroke frequency, most notably in african-american women. hypertension control programs must be adequately funded and expanded. african-americans have a disproportionately high incidence of risk factors for stroke, including hypertension. there is evidence that the cerebral vessels involved in ischemic stroke in african-americans may differ from those of caucasians. there is an urgent need for more research on stroke in general, risk factor relations in particular, and mechanisms in the pathogenesis of stroke in african-americans.
ventricular arrhythmias after correction of ventricular septal defects: importance of surgical approach. to compare the prevalence of conduction disturbances and ventricular arrhythmias in cases of postoperative ventricular septal defect, 100 patients (50 with repair by right atriotomy, group 1; and 50 with repair by right ventriculotomy, group 2) underwent complete evaluation including an electrocardiogram (ecg) and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring. the two groups were comparable except for a shorter follow-up duration (7 +/- 3 versus 12.4 +/- 7 years) and a younger age at evaluation (12.4 +/- 5 versus 16.9 +/- 7 years) in group 1. complete right bundle branch block was less frequent in group 1 than in group 2 (20% versus 50%, p less than 0.05) but three of the four patients with complete atrioventricular (av) block detected on ambulatory monitoring were in group 1. six patients had significant supraventricular arrhythmias, all well tolerated. ambulatory monitoring revealed significant ventricular arrhythmias (modified lown grade 2 or higher) in 39 patients, with a lower prevalence in group 1 (30% versus 48%, p = 0.05). no correlation was found between prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias and right ventricular systolic pressure, cardiopulmonary bypass duration, presence of a synthetic patch, previous pulmonary artery banding, presence of complete right bundle branch block and cardiomegaly on chest x-ray film. prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias increased with follow-up duration, age at evaluation and age at surgery. these were always well tolerated and did not warrant treatment. thus, right atriotomy reduces the prevalence of right bundle branch block but does not prevent late av block. ventricular arrhythmias are frequent after surgical closure of ventricular septal defect whatever the surgical approach and their prevalence is not statistically different from that in postoperative tetralogy of fallot.
lack of effect of pregnancy on outcome of melanoma. for the world health organisation melanoma programme to determine the effect of pregnancy on prognosis in melanoma we investigated 388 women treated for stage 1 primary cutaneous disease during their childbearing years. 85 women had been treated before any pregnancy, 92 during pregnancy, 143 after they had completed all pregnancies, and 68 between pregnancies. women who had received treatment while pregnant had primary tumours of significantly greater thickness than did those in the other three groups (p = 0.002). other possible confounding factors (site, age, parity) did not differ between the groups. once tumour thickness was controlled for, survival rate of women in whom melanoma was diagnosed and treated while they were pregnant did not differ from that in the other three groups. cox regression analysis showed no differences between the three groups of women who were not pregnant at diagnosis. women with melanoma should be advised about pregnancy on the basis of thickness and site of tumour and evidence of vascular spread, and not hormonal status.
differentiation of hl-60 leukemia by type i regulatory subunit antisense oligodeoxynucleotide of camp-dependent protein kinase. a marked decrease in the type i camp-dependent protein kinase regulatory subunit (ri alpha) and an increase in the type ii protein kinase regulatory subunit (rii beta) correlate with growth inhibition and differentiation induced in a variety of types of human cancer cells, in vitro and in vivo, by site-selective camp analogs. to directly determine whether ri alpha is a growth-inducing protein essential for neoplastic cell growth, human hl-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were exposed to 21-mer ri alpha antisense oligodeoxynucleotide, and the effects on cell replication and differentiation were examined. the ri alpha antisense oligomer brought about growth inhibition and monocytic differentiation, bypassing the effects of an exogenous camp analog. these effects of ri alpha antisense oligodeoxynucleotide correlated with a decrease in ri alpha receptor and an increase in rii beta receptor level. the growth inhibition and differentiation were abolished, however, when these cells were exposed simultaneously to both ri alpha and rii beta antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. the rii beta antisense oligodeoxynucleotide alone has been previously shown to specifically block the differentiation inducible by camp analogs. these results provide direct evidence that ri alpha camp receptor plays a critical role in neoplastic cell growth and that camp receptor isoforms display specific roles in camp regulation of cell growth and differentiation.
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle. expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease. we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle. rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus. surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis. the histological examination showed inflammatory, nonspecific granulation tissue. the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection. signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection. the clinical, radiological, and biochemical course is documented. this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease.
estrogen replacement therapy: is previously treated cancer a contraindication? the benefits of estrogen replacement therapy in preventing vasomotor symptoms, osteoporosis, and cardiovascular disease are well documented. although estrogen is said to be contraindicated in patients successfully treated for endometrial and breast cancer, there are no data to substantiate this admonition. experience suggests that it can be used safely in patients treated previously for endometrial cancer. although there is little or no experience with estrogen use in the woman treated previously for breast cancer, circumstantial evidence suggests that it is not contraindicated in all such cases. informed consent, patient desires, and risk-benefit considerations must enter into the decision to use estrogen in these patients.
results and follow-up after percutaneous pulsed laser-assisted balloon angioplasty guided by spectroscopy background. few data are available on the long-term outcome of patients who undergo laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for recanalization of occluded peripheral arteries. because the cost of laser angioplasty is high, the value of the method should be carefully analyzed before it can be considered a routine method for recanalization. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late results of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in patients who could not be recanalized by conventional techniques. methods and results. laser angioplasty was performed in 66 patients with total occlusion of the iliofemoral artery in whom mechanical techniques failed to recanalize the obstructed vessel. the system consisted of a pulsed dye laser operated at 480 nm, 2 microseconds/pulse, 5 hz, 50 mj/pulse coupled into a 0.021-in. laser catheter. the treatment laser was connected with a diagnostic laser to induce tissue fluorescence for spectroscopic analysis via the same fiber. the treatment laser was emitted only when atheromatous tissue was recognized. after a pilot hole was created by laser emission, dilatation was performed to enlarge the channel. the mean length of occlusion was 8.8 +/- 6.1 cm. the primary success rate was 82%. it did not depend on the length of occlusion but was greater in non-calcified than in calcified lesions (88% versus 71%, p less than 0.03). complications included seven early reocclusions that could be recanalized and eight perforations without clinical sequelae. at a mean 18-month follow-up, 64% of the laser-treated arteries remained patent. the rate of patency was related neither to the length of the occlusion nor to calcifications but was lower in patients who had early reocclusion (p less than 0.02). conclusions. pulsed dye laser-assisted balloon angioplasty is effective for recanalization of totally occluded arteries that cannot be treated by conventional means. the efficacy is limited by calcifications. the long-term patency rate is acceptable given the severity of the lesions.
quantitative proton magnetic resonance imaging in focal cerebral ischemia in rat brain. proton magnetic resonance (mr) imaging has been recommended as a diagnostic tool for the detection of focal cerebral ischemia. we compared microscopic mr images of rat brains after focal cerebral ischemia with evidence of histological damage found on corresponding silver-impregnated or cresyl violet-stained brain sections. ten male wistar rats were subjected to permanent unilateral occlusions of the right middle cerebral and common carotid arteries under halothane anesthesia. twenty-four hours later the area of injury on mr images amounted to 26% of the total slice area, whereas only 9% of the total slice area was necrotic on histological sections from the same animals. the infarcted areas on tissue sections were surrounded by regions of selective neuronal injury in the cerebral cortex and occasionally in the hippocampus. the area of injury on mr images was larger than the combined areas of infarction and selective neuronal injury on histological sections. areas of increased t2 values on mr images extended medially into noninfarcted striatum and laterally and dorsally into noninfarcted cortex. the lateral and dorsal areas on mr images frequently coincided with cortical areas in which considerable selective neuronal injury was present in the upper cortical layers. we hypothesize that the abnormal areas on mr images above histologically normal brain tissue represent the ischemic penumbra. if true, this is the first demonstration of the ischemic penumbra by mr imaging and may reflect our use of wistar rats, a new image analysis technique, and ultra-high resolution mr imaging.
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm complicating mitral valve replacement in a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis. a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis required mitral valve replacement. a left ventricular pseudoaneurysm developed following surgery. the etiology and diagnosis of this complication are discussed.
effect of aortic sclerosis on bone mineral measurements by dual-photon absorptiometry. measurements of the bone mineral content (bmc) of lumbar spine by dual-photon absorptiometry (dpa) are performed mainly in the anteroposterior (ap) projection. due to superimposition of the abdominal aorta, the bmc measured for patients with aortic calcification usually is too high. to determine the influence of aortic calcifications, dpa scans were performed in the ap-projection on 100 dissected abdominal aortae with different degrees of atherosclerosis placed on a human lumbar spine cast in lucite. the measured values were compared with those obtained in the same projection without the aortae. the average increase of the bmc values relative to the mean for the vertebrae l2 to l4 for aortae with severe complicated lesions, i.e., those containing larger amounts of calcium, was 0.03 g/cm2, with a maximum deviation of 0.09 g/cm2. aortae with fatty streaks or fibrous plaques did not cause significant increases of the bmc. the mean deviation for aortae with mild complicated lesions, i.e., those containing smaller amounts of calcium, was within the range of instrument precision.
persistence of monosodium urate crystals and low-grade inflammation in the synovial fluid of patients with untreated gout. synovial fluid (sf) from 74 asymptomatic knees of patients with gout was analyzed. these patients had never been treated with serum uric acid-lowering agents. sf samples were analyzed for the presence of crystals and for cell counts, using undiluted sf directly in a niebauer cell counting chamber. thirty-seven of the aspirated knees had previously been inflamed, and monosodium urate (msu) crystals were seen in sf aspirates from 36 of them (97%). of the 37 knees that had never been inflamed, only 8 contained msu crystals (p less than 0.00001). after reaching the joint, msu crystals will persist in the sf as long as the serum uric acid level has not been lowered by appropriate treatment. in this situation, analysis of sf is an excellent diagnostic test for the intercritical gout. the mean cell count in the 44 sf samples that contained msu crystals was 449/mm3 (95% confidence interval 310-589); the mean cell count in the 30 sf without msu crystals was 64/mm3 (95% confidence interval 34-95) (p less than 0.00002). the sf samples that contained msu crystals also had a higher percentage of polymorphonuclear leukocytes than those without msu crystals (p less than 0.002). these data suggest that there is a low-grade inflammation present in the knees of patients with msu crystals, the consequences of which should be investigated.
neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy. the variety of cognitive dysfunctions related to learning disabilities in children with epilepsy have been studied by linking electroencephalogram (eeg) and computerized neuropsychological testing. this showed that "subclinical" discharges impaired performance in 61% of the patients on a simple and a choice reaction time test, although some discharges lasted 1 s only. neuropsychological investigation of subclinical eeg discharges may help to determine their adverse effect on learning.
plasticity of integrin expression by nerve-derived connective tissue cells. human schwann cells, perineurial cells, and fibroblasts express markedly different patterns of beta 1 integrins during nerve development, neoplasia, and in vitro. strikingly selective expression patterns of beta 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, and alpha 5 integrin subunits were revealed in endoneurium, perineurium, and epineurium of fetal and adult human peripheral nerve by immunostaining with specific antibodies. the alpha 2 subunit was expressed only on schwann cells both in fetal and adult nerve, whereas the alpha 3 epitopes were expressed exclusively in the adult tissue and were primarily present on perineurial cells. the alpha 5 epitopes were expressed only on the innermost cell layer of perineurium of fetal and adult nerve. the tumor cells within schwannomas and cutaneous neurofibromas expressed both alpha 2 and alpha 3 subunits, indicating that schwann cells have the potential to express also the alpha 3 subunit in vivo. cell cultures established from human fetal nerve and neurofibromas revealed expression of the alpha 2 and alpha 5 epitopes on schwann cells, perineurial cells, and fibroblasts, whereas only schwann cells contained the alpha 3 epitopes which were occasionally concentrated on the adjacent schwann cells at cell-cell contacts. our findings emphasize that nerve connective tissue cells change their profiles for expression of extracellular matrix receptors under conditions which have different regulatory control signals exerted by, for example, axons, humoral factors, or the extracellular matrix of the peripheral nerve. this plasticity may play an important role during nerve development and in neoplastic processes affecting the connective tissue compartments of peripheral nerve.
metabolic effects of cachectin/tumor necrosis factor are modified by site of production. cachectin/tumor necrosis factor-secreting tumor in skeletal muscle induces chronic cachexia, while implantation in brain induces predominantly acute anorexia. we have developed a murine model of wasting by injecting intracerebrally cells which continuously secrete h-cachectin/tnf (cho-tnf) to: (a) determine the effects of cachectin/tnf produced continuously in the central nervous system (cns), and (b) compare the metabolic effects of cachectin/tnf-secreting tumor in the brain to the cachexia caused by cho-tnf tumor in peripheral tissue (im). intracerebral cho-tnf tumors produced increased serum h-cachectin/tnf levels with lethal hypophagia and weight loss (mean survival time of 11 d); these changes were not observed in association with nonsecretory control brain tumors. the metabolic consequences of intracerebral cachectin/tnf production were indistinguishable from acute, lethal starvation: whole-body lipid content was decreased significantly but protein was conserved. although intramuscular cachectin/tnf-secreting tumors caused similar increases of serum h-cachectin/tnf levels, profound anorexia did not develop; wasting developed after a longer period of tumor burden (50 d) with classical signs of cachexia (i.e., anemia and depletion of both protein and lipid). these studies provide a reproducible animal model of site-specific cytokine production and suggest that, regardless of serum levels, cachectin/tnf produced locally in brain influences both the rate of development of wasting and its net metabolic effects.
my7 monoclonal antibody for diagnosis of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma. infiltrate in cutaneous t-cell lymphomas (ctcls) is composed mainly of cd4 helper cells with a phenotype very similar to that of benign cutaneous lymphoid infiltrate. my7 (cd13) is a monoclonal antibody that is normally expressed on peripheral granulocytes and monocytes but also cross-reacts with an antigen expressed on epidermal basal cells. we studied my7 expression on basal cells of the epidermis and cd4 cell infiltrate in 34 ctcls, 11 pseudolymphomas, and 29 other benign cutaneous lesions. an indirect immunofluorescence technique with double labeling and an immunoperoxidase technique were used. we found that in benign inflammatory infiltrate, less than 10% of cd4 cells expressed my7 antigen associated with normal my7 monoclonal antibody labeling of basal cells, whereas in ctcls more than 50% of cd4 tumoral cells in dermis expressed my7 antigens; however, basal cells were my7 negative. thus, it is demonstrated that my7 monoclonal antibody with its double modulation on epidermis (basal cells) and dermis (cd4 cells) has diagnostic value for differentiating ctcls with cd4+ my7+ tumor cells in dermis and my7-negative basal cells from benign inflammatory lesions with cd4+ my7- cells in dermis and my7-positive basal cells. this modulation of my7 labeling could be related to the secretion of epidermal cytokines.
miller-fisher syndrome and pontine abnormalities on mri: a case report. the authors report a patient with miller-fisher syndrome in whom mri of the brain stem showed increased signal density on t2 sequence anterior to the fourth ventricle, on the right and the left. the authors discuss the relation between these mri abnormalities and some clinical features of the syndrome. the authors believe that the cardinal features of miller-fisher syndrome are due to peripheral nervous system dysfunction, but that this does not preclude a possible central nervous system involvement.
selection of patients with acute myocardial infarction for thrombolytic therapy purpose: to critically review the current recommendations regarding the eligibility of patients with myocardial infarction for thrombolytic therapy. data identification: relevant studies published from january 1980 to january 1990 were identified through a computerized search of the english-language literature using medline and by a manual search of the bibliographies of all identified articles. study selection: all randomized, controlled trials of intravenous thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina were reviewed. smaller, observational studies and previous review articles were included when relevant to the discussion. data extraction: key data were extracted from each article, including the proportions of patients eligible for thrombolysis, the reasons for exclusion from thrombolytic therapy, and the clinical outcomes of patients treated and of those excluded from treatment. the validity of certain exclusion criteria was examined using subgroup analysis from the large, randomized mortality trials of intravenous thrombolysis and observations from smaller, nonrandomized studies. results of data synthesis: to date, relatively few patients with myocardial infarction have been considered eligible for fibrinolytic therapy. in this group, both early and late mortality have been significantly reduced. patients excluded from thrombolysis, however, continue to have a high early mortality. the data suggest that the potential benefits of this treatment might be extended to selected high-risk subgroups. in particular, the risk-benefit ratio may favor the inclusion of otherwise healthy elderly patients; certain patients presenting more than 6 hours after the onset of symptoms; and patients with a history of controlled systolic hypertension or brief, nontraumatic cardiopulmonary resuscitation. the data do not support the use of fibrinolytic therapy as primary treatment in patients with unstable angina or suspected myocardial infarction in the absence of confirmatory electrocardiographic changes. conclusions: the full potential of thrombolytic therapy to alter the natural history of acute myocardial infarction can only be realized through the continued evaluation of selection criteria and the identification and treatment of the greatest possible number of eligible patients.
bone scans in the diagnosis of bone crisis in patients who have gaucher disease [published erratum appears in j bone joint surg [am] 1991 jun;73(5):791] of thirty-four occurrences of bone pain in seventeen children and young adults who had type-i gaucher disease, twenty-five were finally diagnosed as bone crises. on the basis of a bone scan with technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate, a correct diagnosis of bone crisis was made for twenty-three occurrences, with a sensitivity of 0.92. at the onset of a crisis, the bone scan typically showed decreased uptake of radionuclide at the involved site. after six weeks, a repeat bone scan of the long bones showed a ring of increased uptake surrounding an area of decreased uptake. at six months, the appearance of the bones on the radionuclide scan was normal.
long-term vascular access via the inferior vena cava. a prospective evaluation of long-term venous access catheters placed via the inferior vena cava was performed to determine their efficacy as well as short- and long-term morbidity. from june 1987 to may 1989, 31 catheters were placed in 26 patients, for a total of 3,503 catheter use days. all catheters were placed via an infraumbilical approach when the more conventional supraumbilical route was technically difficult, dangerous, or impossible to be used. there were a total of 14 complications in 12 episodes (one in every 701 catheter use days), six episodes of catheter occlusion or vessel thrombosis (one in every 583 catheter use days), one catheter malfunction, one episode of cuff erosion through the skin, and one catheter that migrated through the inferior vena cava into the retroperitoneum. these results compared favorably with our experience with long-term catheters of a similar type placed via a supraumbilical approach into the superior vena cava. we conclude that the infraumbilical route for long-term central venous access is safe and technically easy and should be strongly considered in patients in whom venous access via the supraumbilical approach will be technically difficult or have a high likelihood of failure.
balloon valvuloplasty for critical aortic stenosis in the newborn: influence of new catheter technology. between 1986 and july 1990, balloon valvuloplasty was attempted in eight newborns (less than 28 days of age) with isolated critical aortic valve stenosis. balloon valvuloplasty could not be successfully accomplished in any of the three infants presenting before 1989. since march 1989, when improved catheter technology became available, all five neonates presenting with critical aortic stenosis were treated successfully by balloon valvuloplasty. a transumbilical approach was utilized in all four infants in whom umbilical artery access could be obtained. one newborn who was 25 days of age underwent transfemoral balloon valvuloplasty. balloon valvuloplasty was immediately successful in all five newborns, as evidenced by a decrease in valve gradient and improvement in left ventricular function and cardiac output. peak systolic gradient was reduced by 64% from 69 +/- 8 to 25 +/- 3 mm hg (p = 0.005). left ventricular systolic pressure decreased from 128 +/- 9 to 95 +/- 9 mm hg (p = 0.02) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 20 +/- 2 to 11 +/- 1 mm hg (p = 0.02). moderate (2+) aortic regurgitation was documented in two infants after valvuloplasty. the time from first catheter insertion to valve dilation averaged 57 +/- 14 min (range 26 to 94) and the median length of the hospital stay was 4 days. with the use of recently available catheters, the transumbilical technique of balloon valvuloplasty can be performed quickly, safely and effectively in the newborn with critical aortic stenosis. it does not require general anesthesia, cardiopulmonary bypass or a left ventricular apical incision and it preserves the femoral arteries for future transcatheter intervention should significant aortic stenosis recur.
myocarditis simulating acute transmural myocardial infarction. a patient with cardiogenic shock had typical electrocardiographic findings of acute anterior transmural myocardial infarction. cardiac catheterization revealed normal coronary arteries and severe biventricular failure. postmortem examination confirmed normal coronary arteries; acute myocarditis, but no evidence for infarction, was found. electrocardiographic changes of myocarditis may be indistinguishable from acute transmural infarction. in suspected cases, cardiac catheterization should be considered prior to thrombolytic therapy.
paraplegia after a routine lumbar laminectomy: report of a rare complication and successful management. arachnoid cysts of the spinal canal are relatively common lesions that may be either intra- or extradural. these cysts are usually asymptomatic but may produce symptoms by compressing the spinal cord or nerve roots. we report a case in which an intradural thoracic arachnoid cyst became symptomatic after a routine decompressive lumbar laminectomy for spinal stenosis. myelography revealed no abnormality, although magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography demonstrated a mass within the posterior aspect of the thoracic spinal canal associated with anterior displacement and compression of the spinal cord. a change in the flow dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid probably allowed the development of spinal cord compression due to one of the following: expansion of the cyst, decreased cerebrospinal fluid buffer between the cord and the cyst, or epidural venous engorgement. a concomitant and more cephalad lesion such as an arachnoid cyst should be considered when myelopathic complications arise after lumbar surgery. magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography are useful to demonstrate the additional pathological processes.
supravalvar aortic stenosis: a complication of aortic valve surgery. after a patient had aortic valvotomy and aortotomy for the relief of valvar aortic stenosis supravalvar stenosis developed over the next six years.
the distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb. to determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured. four groups of patients were studied: 22 control subjects, 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis, 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis. in the testing posture (seated), patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side. gravitational torques were included in the measurements. however, proximal muscles (acting at hip and knee) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles (acting at ankle and hallux). at any particular joint, physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects. as in the upper limb (colebatch and gandevia, 1989), the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects, although no muscle groups were especially affected.
a longitudinal study of respiratory symptoms in a community population sample. correlations with smoking, allergen skin-test reactivity, and serum ige chronic cough and/or phlegm, wheeze in the absence of colds, and rhinitis attributed to allergies are three of the most common respiratory symptoms encountered in community populations. in this study, we have determined the prevalence of these complaints in a random population sample (n = 1,109) using standardized questionnaires at two points in time, eight years apart. cross-sectional prevalence and changes in symptom occurrence have been correlated with smoking status, allergen skin test reactivity, and total serum ige levels. our objective was to determine the individual and combined influence of these three variables on symptom prevalence. initially, 19.2 percent of the population admitted to wheeze, 17.9 percent to cough, and 44.1 percent to allergic rhinitis. cough and wheeze prevalence changed little over the eight-year period, while rhinitis increased 11 percent by the second survey. the occurrence of chronic cough was strongly correlated with smoking, and was not further influenced by either allergen skin reactivity or ige level. conversely, rhinitis prevalence was related to skin test reactivity with no additional association with smoking or ige level. the occurrence of wheeze in the absence of colds was associated with both smoking and allergen skin reactivity. among smokers, the prevalence was over 30 percent and was similar in both skin test positive (stp) and skin test negative (stn) individuals. however, on both surveys, stp ex-smokers and nonsmokers had significantly more wheeze than those who were stn. while the prevalence of wheeze in stn nonsmokers was low (6.8 percent), an ige-wheeze relationship was also suggested on the second survey. in addition to these cross-sectional symptom relationships, changes in either smoking status or allergen skin reactivity during the study period were associated with changes in the prevalence of each symptom.
the health belief model: predicting compliance and dropout in cardiac rehabilitation. we investigated the health belief model and the health locus of control constructs as predictors of group membership (compliers or dropouts) with cardiac rehabilitation and whether they added predictive utility to routinely assessed patient demographics and health behaviors. questionnaires were completed on entry into the study by 120 patients with coronary artery disease, and by the end of the 6 month program there were 58 compliers and 62 dropouts. discriminant function analyses were carried out to determine prediction of group membership. the health belief model predicted group membership 64.6% of the time, explaining 5.2% of the variance. demographics, health behaviors, and health belief model factors accounted for 21.1% of the variance between compliers and total dropouts with group membership correctly predicted 74.4% of the time; avoidable and unavoidable dropout was correctly predicted 84.2% of the time with 56.9% of the variance explained. health locus of control did not distinguish between compliers and dropouts. the addition of the health belief model provided additional information about compliance with cardiac rehabilitation beyond that explained by demographic and health behavior variables alone, particularly when predicting avoidable/unavoidable dropout.
electrophysiologic characteristics of manifest and latent retrograde conduction in dogs. atrioventricular (av) nodal reentry requires intact retrograde ventriculoatrial (va) conduction. the purpose of this study was to assess the contribution of various pacing and pharmacologic techniques to uncover va conduction during apparent unidirectional va block, and to evaluate the role of several biologic and electrophysiologic factors in concealment of retrograde conduction. forty healthy dogs underwent catheter-electrophysiologic studies of av and va conduction. group i (20 animals) had intact va conduction. group ii (six animals) had va dissociation with ventricular pacing initiated during sinus rhythm, but the presence of va conduction was confirmed by isoproterenol infusion or by premature ventricular stimulation. in group iii (14 animals), the above techniques failed to uncover va conduction. eight of 14 group iii animals underwent thoracotomy and crushing or freezing of the sinoatrial (sa) node. ventricular pacing initiated during sinus standstill was associated with 1:1 va conduction in each experiment. va conduction time and retrograde wenckebach cycle length, both in the baseline state and during isoproterenol infusion, were significantly longer in the eight animals in group iii than in those in group i. age, gender, weight, breed, sinus cycle length, and anterograde av conduction properties were not significantly different between groups i, ii, and iii. the data suggest that (1) in normal dogs, complete unidirectional va block probably does not exist; (2) in the presence of anterograde input to the av node, even sophisticated pacing and pharmacologic maneuvers may fail to uncover the presence of va conduction; (3) although anterograde input is essential for concealment of va conduction, the phenomenon is more closely associated with depressed retrograde than with anterograde av nodal characteristics.
the role of a critical care unit in an epidemic. the role of a critical care unit in life-threatening situations is well established. the management of 52 children with acute gastroenteritis and 22 children with acute paralytic poliomyelitis as part of recent epidemics is described. the solutions to the problems in the critical care management of these 74 victims (out of a total of 6197 patients admitted during the epidemics) are discussed.
ibuprofen prevents deterioration in static transpulmonary compliance and transalveolar protein flux in septic porcine acute lung injury. the effects of intravenous ibuprofen on measurements of pulmonary function and alveolar capillary membrane permeability to protein in sepsis-induced porcine acute lung injury (ali) were studied. young swine (15-25 kg) were anesthetized, cannulated, and ventilated (5 cm h2o peep, 0.5 fio2, and 15 cc/kg tidal volume). three groups were studied: septic animals (ps, n = 10) received pseudomonas aeruginosa for 1 hr iv, controls (c, n = 9) received 0.9% nacl, and ibuprofen-treated septic animals (ps + ibu, n = 7) received ibuprofen 12.5 mg/kg at 0 and 120 min post ps. systemic (sap) and pulmonary (pap) arterial pressures, pao2, cardiac index (ci), static lung compliance (cl), evlw (thermal cardiogreen), and peripheral white blood cell counts (wbc) were measured. bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) was performed for protein and % neutrophil (%pmn) content. results: ps produced significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in cl, pao2, sap, ci, and peripheral wbc and increases in pap, evlw, bal protein, and %pmn's vs. controls. ibu prevented the early increase in pap and attenuated the late increase in pap and evlw. ibu also maintained pao2, cl, bal protein, and %pmn's in bal at control levels, but exhibited no significant effect on peripheral leukopenia. these data strongly suggest that ibuprofen administered before and at 120 min after onset of pseudomonas infusion improves lung compliance and affects neutrophil function sufficiently to significantly ameliorate many of the physiologic derangements in acute sepsis.
approach to men with urethritis and urologic complications of sexually transmitted diseases. the most important causes of urethritis, and epididymitis in younger men, are c. trachomatis and n. gonorrhoeae. management of these syndromes requires a thorough sexual history, genital examination, evaluation for objective and laboratory evidence of infection, antimicrobial therapy directed toward the major etiologies, and evaluation and treatment of sexual partners. treatment of n. gonorrhoeae requires use of a single-dose regimen active against this organism, plus a 7- to 10-day tetracycline regime active against c. trachomatis and nongonococcal urethritis. with recommended regimens, microbiologic failure is infrequent in compliant patients. recurrent urethritis is frequent, however. the management of patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms requires careful reevaluation of the patient, documentation of urethritis, and re-treatment with antimicrobials if urethritis is documented by positive cultures or increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions. additional treatment beyond this point usually is not indicated, even though a proportion of men will remain symptomatic and some of these will have increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions. the most important causes of prostatitis, and epididymitis in older men or men with urethral structural abnormalities, are classical urinary tract pathogens rather than sexually transmitted pathogens. management of these infections includes documentation of the infection and treatment directed toward the specific pathogen. men with symptoms of "prostatitis" must be evaluated using both urine and prostatic secretions to document infection and inflammation. the majority of men with such symptoms do not have an infection that can be documented. these men respond poorly to medications. men with documented chronic bacterial prostatitis require long courses of antimicrobials to effect cure. in some cases, however, the disease is intractable, and chronic suppression with antimicrobials may be necessary.
regional myocardial blood flow and left ventricular diastolic properties in pacing-induced ischemia. the relation between left ventricular diastolic abnormalities and myocardial blood flow during ischemia was studied in eight open chest dogs with critical stenoses of the proximal left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries. the heart was paced at 1.7 times the heart rate at rest for 3 min. in dogs with coronary stenoses, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased from 8 +/- 1 to 14 +/- 2 mm hg during pacing tachycardia (p less than 0.01) and 16 +/- 3 mm hg (p less than 0.01) after pacing, with increased end-diastolic and end-systolic segment lengths in the ischemic regions. left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relations for ischemic regions shifted upward during and after pacing tachycardia in dogs with coronary stenoses, indicating decreased regional diastolic distensibility. in dogs without coronary stenoses, the left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relation was unaltered. pacing tachycardia without coronary stenoses induced an increase in anterograde coronary blood flow (assessed by flow meter) in both the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries, and a decrease in regional vascular resistance. in dogs with coronary stenoses, regional vascular resistance before pacing was decreased by 18%; myocardial blood flow (assessed by microspheres) was unchanged in both the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary artery territories. during pacing tachycardia with coronary stenoses, regional coronary vascular resistance did not decrease further; subendocardial myocardial blood flow distal to the left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis decreased (from 1.03 +/- 0.07 to 0.67 +/- 0.12 ml/min per g, p less than 0.01), as did subendocardial to subepicardial blood flow ratio (from 1.04 +/- 0.09 to 0.42 +/- 0.08, p less than 0.01).
the role of preoperative radionuclide ventriculography in defining outcome after revascularization of the extremity. revascularization of the extremity was performed upon 110 patients after preoperative radionuclide ventriculography (rnvg). mean ejection fraction (ef) was 50 +/- 13 per cent. ventricular wall motion abnormalities were present in 46 per cent. revascularization included inflow procedures, such as aortofemoral (n = 25) or extraanatomic bypass (axillofemoral or femorofemoral, n = 11); infrainguinal reconstruction, including femoropopliteal or distal bypass (n = 43), and other procedures to improve perfusion of the limb or correct complications after previous vascular reconstruction upon the extremity (n = 31). perioperative (30 days) mortality rate was 0.9 per cent and 97.0 per cent of the patients were discharged alive from the hospital. myocardial infarction (mi) occurred in 3.6 per cent, new ventricular arrhythmia in 1.8 per cent and congestive heart failure in 6.4 per cent of the patients during the perioperative period. during follow-up study (607 +/- 363 days), 7.3 per cent required major amputation, ipsilateral to reconstruction, 5.5 per cent required surgical or angiographic revision for hemodynamic failure of the reconstruction prior to thrombosis and 12.7 per cent thrombosed part or all of the reconstruction. revascularization failure did not appear to be related to the level of cardiac function. those with normal (greater than 50 per cent) ef had greater over-all survival by life table analysis than those with ef less than or equal to 50 per cent (p = 0.0006, mantel-cox test). ventricular wall motion abnormalities were associated with reduced over-all survival (p = 0.008, mantel-cox test). the presence of angina or previous mi, singularly or in combination, did not have an adverse effect on over-all survival, whereas diabetes (p = 0.0058, mantel-cox test) and cigarette smoking (p = 0.0137, breslow test) were associated with significantly diminished over-all survival. preoperative rnvg can identify subgroups at a survival disadvantage after revascularization of the extremity in a population in which the presence of angina or previous mi does not predict survival.
cancer surveillance in ulcerative colitis. during a 13-year period, 213 patients with ulcerative colitis who had no clinical or endoscopic evidence of colonic carcinoma were enrolled in a biopsy surveillance program for dysplasia and carcinoma. the aims of the study were to determine whether such a program could decrease the cancer risk in this group of patients, to determine whether patients with a low risk of carcinoma could be identified, thus enabling them to retain their colon, and to accomplish these goals with a reasonable expenditure of resources. eighteen patients had dysplasia detected in the initial biopsy specimens; 15 of these patients underwent colectomy, and 7 had unsuspected carcinoma (1 dukes' stage a, 2 stage b, and 4 stage c). eleven patients had dysplasia detected during follow-up; 7 of these patients had colectomy, and only 1 patient had carcinoma (dukes' b). dysplasia developed in 5 of 20 patients with indefinite changes on initial biopsy samples; 3 of these patients underwent colectomy, and 1 patient had carcinoma (dukes' b). there was no difference in the prevalence of dysplasia between patients with left-sided disease and patients with extensive disease. with the exception of 2 patients with inadequate surveillance, there has been no clinical evidence of carcinoma in any of the 148 patients whose biopsy results remained negative throughout the study; carcinoma has not developed in any of 175 patients without dysplasia on initial biopsy sample. all 4 patients who died of carcinoma had high-grade dysplasia in their initial colonoscopic biopsy samples. it is concluded that a biopsy surveillance program can be an effective aid in helping control the risk of carcinoma in patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis, that the short-term risk of carcinoma for patients with negative biopsy results is low and colectomy for risk of carcinoma can be deferred in this group, and that patients with extensive and left-sided disease share the same risk of the development of dysplasia.
polycystic ovary syndrome and bulimia. one hundred fifty-three patients classified as suffering from polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos) and 109 patients who were suffering from a clear organic disorder or endocrinopathy received the bulimia investigation test (edinburgh) (bite) questionnaire for abnormal eating behaviors. patients with pcos showed a significant increase in their mean bite score for approximately a third had abnormal eating patterns, and 6% have scores suggestive of clinical bulimia compared with only 1% of women in the group with organic endocrinopathies. the work suggests that women with pcos should be screened for abnormal eating behaviors and raises the possibility that treatment by psychological means should be considered when abnormal eating behaviors are present.
effects of supplemental oxygen administration in an infant with pulmonary artery hypertension. in patients with pulmonary disease, pulmonary artery hypertension often occurs as a result of pulmonary artery vasoconstriction, primarily from hypoxia and alveolar hypotension. in this report we describe the hemodynamic effects of breathing supplemental oxygen in a child with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and pulmonary artery hypertension. these hemodynamic effects include an improvement in oxygenation, an increase in systemic vascular resistance, and a decrease in the pulmonary vascular resistance. as a direct result of these changes in vascular resistances, alterations of heart rate, cardiac index, stroke volume, aortic pressure, oxygen consumption, and pulmonary artery pressure have been shown to occur. oxygen is widely used to treat many physiologic conditions. however, during the administration of supplemental oxygen, rarely do we recognize the hemodynamic changes associated with its use. these hemodynamic effects must be clearly understood and appreciated before oxygen administration in any clinical situation.
rar-alpha gene rearrangements as a genetic marker for diagnosis and monitoring in acute promyelocytic leukemia. acute promyelocytic leukemias (apls) are characterized by a translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17. the translocation breakpoints have recently been identified and shown to involve the rar-alpha gene on 17 and myl on 15. here we report southern blotting analysis of 26 apls, including cases with normal karyotypes and atypical morphology, which showed rar-alpha rearrangements in 92% cases, myl rearrangements in 73%, and either rar-alpha or myl rearrangements in 100%. despite a negative clinical and morphologic picture, dna rearrangement analysis showed that neoplastic promyelocytes persisted in the bone marrow of two patients sampled after induction chemotherapy. therefore, the rar-alpha and myl rearrangements provide molecular markers for accurately diagnosing apls and monitoring the course of the disease during and after chemotherapy.
role of hemodynamics and vagus nerves in development of fibrin-induced pulmonary edema. the rapid development of pulmonary edema that may occur in the rabbit after the intracisternal injection of a mixture of fibrinogen and thrombin has classically been considered to result from a vagally mediated increase in vascular permeability (g. r. cameron and s. n. de, j. pathol. bacteriol 61: 375, 1949) and to not be dependent on hemodynamic mechanisms. we tested this hypothesis by evaluating the relationship between the degree of pulmonary hypertension and postmortem extravascular lung water content (evlw) in both nonvagotomized (n = 10) and vagotomized (n = 7) rabbits administered thrombin (0.1 ml, 500 u/ml) and fibrinogen (1 ml, 27 mg/ml) intracisternally. no increase in evlw was observed in either group unless pulmonary arterial pressure (ppa) exceeded 25 torr, and large increases in evlw were only observed at higher ppa's. these results thus indicate that some degree of pulmonary hypertension is required for the development of this form of edema. because the vascular pressure required to produce edema in this model approaches that required to increase pulmonary vascular permeability in the rabbit, a pressure-dependent increase in permeability may be a common characteristic of neurogenic pulmonary edema in this species. vagotomy had no protective effect but instead appeared to increase the amount of edema development for a given degree of pulmonary hypertension.
complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma: colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis. postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the eea-stapler were evaluated. in all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma. in 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level (above the anal verge: colorectal anastomosis) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level (coloanal anastomosis). there was no perioperative mortality. the only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis. in the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks, 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence, ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 (10.4%) patients. we conclude that for rectal tumors the eea-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases. stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various (early and late) complications. nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort, many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma.
modulatory action of adenosine on gastric function and ethanol-induced mucosal damage in rats. this study examines the gastric effects of adenosine and its antagonist, theophylline, on secretory function, mucosal blood flow, and on ethanol-induced glandular mucosal damage in rats that were fasted for 24 hr before experimentation. the animals were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone (50 mg/kg intraperitoneal) and their tracheae cannulated. an ex vivo stomach chamber then was prepared. the luminal bathing solution was collected every 15 min and the concentrations of h+ and na+ were determined by a ph autotitrator and an ionmeter, respectively. the glandular mucosal blood flow was measured by a laser doppler flowmeter and the severity of lesions was determined by measuring the hemorrhagic areas. adenosine administration (2.5 or 7.5 mg/kg, subcutaneous) markedly lowered the h+ and na+ output but increased the secretory volume and mucosal blood flow in a dose-dependent manner. the same doses of the nucleoside also prevented ethanol-induced mucosal damage. these effects were prevented by pretreatment with theophylline (30 or 60 mg/kg, subcutaneous). ethanol given alone significantly depressed the h+ and na+ secretion. both effects were not modified by adenosine treatment. however, the depressive action of ethanol on mucosal blood flow was prevented by adenosine. these findings indicate that adenosine modulates the physiological function of the stomach. it also directly activates the defensive mechanism of the stomach, which is partially mediated by the improvement of the gastric mucosal blood flow and an increase in the nonacid component of gastric secretion.
cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor in 190 patients. over 10 years, 475 patients with isolated lateral neck masses were evaluated: 190 with lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor (lnup), 188 with neck lymphomas, 78 with benign tumors, 10 with sarcomas, and 9 with chemodectomas. this study focused on the patients with lnup. only 86 patients were treated with surgery (plus radiotherapy). other patients were treated with radiotherapy (84) or chemotherapy (13) or had no treatment (7). for the overall population, failures in the neck occurred in 51% of the patients and distant metastases in 27%, while primary tumors appeared in 16%. survival rates at 3, 5, and 10 years were 27%, 19%, and 7%, respectively, for the overall population and 45%, 35%, and 19%, respectively, for the surgical group. the diagnosis and therapeutic approach had a direct effect on neck control; failure in the neck occurred in 7 of 47 patients (15%) when fine needle aspiration and radical neck dissection with radiotherapy were performed, in 5 of 12 patients (42%) when fine needle aspiration and modified neck dissection with radiotherapy were used, in 5 of 12 patients (42%) when adenectomy diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment were performed, and in 6 of 11 patients (54%) when diagnosis by incisional biopsy was performed prior to admission, despite subsequent radical neck dissection and radiotherapy treatment. in our opinion, panendoscopy and fine needle aspiration should be the first-line diagnostic approach. when cytologic diagnosis proves impossible, the second-line approach must consist of cervical exploration with frozen section examination and excisional biopsy, followed by immediate appropriate treatment. in cases of lnup, radical neck dissection seems to be preferable.
long-term follow-up of the ileoanal anastomosis in children and young adults. the purpose of this study was to carry out a long-term study of the ileoanal anastomosis (iaa) in children and young adults, comparing the straight iaa to the j pouch. one hundred twenty-one young people who had undergone iaa were studied, with 114 available for long-term follow-up. one hundred one were 18 years and under. forty-nine patients had a straight iaa and 72 had a j-pouch reservoir. there were no deaths. after surgery, three children had intraabdominal sepsis and one had pelvic sepsis, but it did not lead to excision of the iaa. the mean stool frequency in all 114 patients was 5.0 +/- 2.5 per day and 1.2 +/- 1.1 at night. the mean number of stools for the straight iaa was 6 per day and 2.1 at night. the mean number of stools for the straight iaa with balloon dilations was 5.8 per day and 1.2 at night, and for the j pouch it was 4 per day and 1 at night. patients with both the j pouch and straight iaa had good to excellent sensation, with patients with the j pouch always able to distinguish flatus from stool in 87% of patients and almost always in 13%. daytime continence was very good in both groups. moderate nighttime loss of stool occurred in 10 patients, 6 with a straight iaa and 4 with a j pouch. ninety-five percent of the 114 patients were satisfied or very satisfied, with most children with a j pouch very satisfied. the j pouch remains the procedure of choice in young people.
clinical management of the complications of hiv infection. patients with advancing hiv infection are subject to a broad range of complications that may challenge the primary care physician. the presence of more than one complication at a time is common. selected, common complications are discussed, including a discussion of the approach to diagnosis and management. areas covered include pulmonary, gastrointestinal, ocular, and mucocutaneous complications, as well as lymphadenopathy, the hiv wasting syndrome, and kaposi's sarcoma.
the usefulness of simultaneous determinations of glucosaminylation and fucosylation indices of alpha-fetoprotein in the differential diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the liver. the degrees of glucosaminylation (glucosaminylation index) and fucosylation (fucosylation index) of alpha-fetoprotein (afp) were determined in serum samples of 351 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc), 47 with carcinoma metastatic to the liver from digestive organs, five with mixed cholangiocellular and hcc, and 176 with benign liver diseases. the glucosaminylation index of afp in patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver (42 +/- 23%, mean +/- sd) was significantly higher than that in patients with hcc (5 +/- 7%, p less than 0.001) or that in patients with benign liver diseases (2 +/- 4%, p less than 0.001). the fucosylation indices of afp in patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver, with hcc, and with benign liver diseases were 76 +/- 25%, 42 +/- 30%, and 4 +/- 6%, respectively. thus, the fucosylation indices of afp were high in two neoplastic liver diseases (carcinoma metastatic to the liver and hcc) and low in benign liver diseases, whereas the glucosaminylation indices were high in carcinoma metastatic to the liver but low in hcc and benign liver diseases. when the values of 30% and 80% were used as the level of the glucosaminylation and fucosylation indices, respectively, to discriminate carcinoma metastatic to the liver from hcc, 40 of 47 patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver (85%) were able to be discriminated from hcc (sensitivity). the specificity, the positive predictive value, and the overall accuracy were 86% (302/351), 45% (40/40 + 47 + 3 - 2) and 86% (40 + 302/47 + 351), respectively. these data suggest that the combined information in these two indices provides a potent criterion for the diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the liver.
capsular genu syndrome. we report 5 patients with unilateral infarct and 1 with hemorrhage limited to the genu of the internal capsule. the most prominent finding was contralateral facial and lingual hemiparesis with dysarthria. three patients also showed unilateral mastication-palatal-pharyngeal weakness, and 1 had unilateral vocal cord paresis. mild limb involvement was limited to hand weakness in 4 patients. our findings suggest that the majority of motor corticopontine and corticocobulbar fibers are located in the genu of the internal capsule. the faciolingual syndrome and its variants are highly suggestive of capsular genu stroke.
the usefulness of simultaneous determinations of glucosaminylation and fucosylation indices of alpha-fetoprotein in the differential diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the liver. the degrees of glucosaminylation (glucosaminylation index) and fucosylation (fucosylation index) of alpha-fetoprotein (afp) were determined in serum samples of 351 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc), 47 with carcinoma metastatic to the liver from digestive organs, five with mixed cholangiocellular and hcc, and 176 with benign liver diseases. the glucosaminylation index of afp in patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver (42 +/- 23%, mean +/- sd) was significantly higher than that in patients with hcc (5 +/- 7%, p less than 0.001) or that in patients with benign liver diseases (2 +/- 4%, p less than 0.001). the fucosylation indices of afp in patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver, with hcc, and with benign liver diseases were 76 +/- 25%, 42 +/- 30%, and 4 +/- 6%, respectively. thus, the fucosylation indices of afp were high in two neoplastic liver diseases (carcinoma metastatic to the liver and hcc) and low in benign liver diseases, whereas the glucosaminylation indices were high in carcinoma metastatic to the liver but low in hcc and benign liver diseases. when the values of 30% and 80% were used as the level of the glucosaminylation and fucosylation indices, respectively, to discriminate carcinoma metastatic to the liver from hcc, 40 of 47 patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver (85%) were able to be discriminated from hcc (sensitivity). the specificity, the positive predictive value, and the overall accuracy were 86% (302/351), 45% (40/40 + 47 + 3 - 2) and 86% (40 + 302/47 + 351), respectively. these data suggest that the combined information in these two indices provides a potent criterion for the diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the liver.
hypertension after operative correction of club-foot deformity. severe hypertension occurred as a postoperative complication after correction of a club-foot deformity in four children (seven feet) who were between the ages of two and three years and had no history of hypertension. the hypertension subsided slowly after administration of antihypertensive medications or more rapidly after release of the correction that had been obtained operatively.
carotid endarterectomy for elderly patients: predicting complications objective: to determine whether the complication or death rate from carotid endarterectomy can be predicted from hospital and physician structural variables, such as the hospital's teaching status or the number of endarterectomies done by the surgeon per year. design: survey of medical records. after controlling for the severity of the patient's condition on the basis of data in the medical record at the time of the endarterectomy, regression analyses were used to predict the postoperative stroke, heart attack, and 30-day death rate as a function of patient, physician, and hospital characteristics. setting: three geographic areas (states or large parts of states; average population, 3 million) in the united states. patients: random sample of 1302 patients 65 years of age or older having carotid endarterectomy in 1981. intervention: carotid endarterectomy. measurements and main results: of 1302 patients, 11.3% had a postoperative stroke or heart attack or died within 30 days of the operation. patient age, race, income, and gender; physician volume, board certification status, and age; and hospital size, for-profit status, ownership, and teaching status were not significantly related to the postoperative complication or death rate. if the surgeon was a graduate of a foreign, but not a western european or canadian, medical school, however, the average complication or death rate rose from 10.4% to 19.6% (p less than 0.05). conclusions: the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy depends heavily on its complication rate. because complications after surgery cannot, in general, be predicted from structural variables, referring physicians cannot rely solely on the surgeon's experience and qualifications when recommending a carotid endarterectomy. the surgeon's and the hospital's actual postoperative complication and death rate should be considered.
incidence and clinical significance of st segment elevation after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. to study the incidence and clinical significance of postshock st segment elevations, we recorded 12-lead ecgs immediately after transthoracic direct-current electrical cardioversion in 146 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. among 23 patients (19%), acute st segment elevations amounted to 1.4 +/- 0.8 mv (mean +/- sd) and occurred after 243 +/- 114 joules (cumulative dose) in the precordial leads only in 14, concomitantly in precordial and inferior leads in two, and in the precordial and anterolateral leads in seven. they normalized within 1.5 +/- 0.8 minutes. occurrence of st segment elevation was related to previous pericardiotomy (p less than 0.00001) and age (p = 0.01). estimation of myocardial enzyme release did not show evidence of myocardial damage. patients with st segment elevations had a lower conversion rate (48% versus 76%, p = 0.005). long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm was also diminished (35% versus 59%, p = 0.03). results of this study show that postcardioversion st segment elevation occurs predominantly in postpericardiotomy patients and may be associated with an unfavorable arrhythmia prognosis.
interictal spiking during wakefulness and sleep and the localization of foci in temporal lobe epilepsy. we examined variations in interictal spiking during sleep and wakefulness to assess differences in reliability for localizing epileptic foci. forty patients were studied prospectively. spikes were assessed for rates, field, and appearance of new foci. final localization was determined by surgery, electrocorticography, and seizure onset. comparison of interictal eeg foci with final localization was made. in 39 patients, slow-wave sleep activated spiking compared with wakefulness. most patients showed maximal spiking in sleep stages 3 or 4. restriction of field in rapid eye movement (rem) sleep and wakefulness, and extension of field in slow-wave sleep occurred. new foci appeared in non-rapid eye movement sleep in 53% of patients. similar but not identical spiking rates, foci, and field distributions were seen in wakefulness and rem sleep. all rem foci were unilateral. our findings suggest that localization of the primary epileptogenic area is more reliable in rem sleep than in wakefulness, and in wakefulness more than in slow-wave sleep.
endoscopic management of chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach. endoscopic correction of the chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach was attempted in seven cases of primary and three cases of secondary volvulus. endoscopic correction was successful in six cases of primary volvulus and one case of volvulus secondary to duodenal carcinoma. this paper describes the details of the technique of endoscopic correction of gastric volvulus, and documentation of correction of the volvulus by barium meal study with a follow-up of 5-26 months.
the prognosis of contact dermatitis. this article reviews the prognosis of contact dermatitis, particularly of occupational contact dermatitis. most studies document a poor prognosis for occupational and nonoccupational contact dermatitis. the prognoses of occupational and nonoccupational contact dermatitis, irritant contact dermatitis, and allergic contact dermatitis are similar. only a minority of studies on the prognosis of occupational contact dermatitis have found that a job change by the affected worker leads to clearing of the dermatitis. dermatologic and nondermatologic factors associated with a poor prognosis are discussed.
congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites. isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops. this entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies. fetal chyloperitoneum, however, should be considered as a possible cause. pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications. we present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum.
pathomechanism, pathogenesis, and results of treatment in cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis. in this study, the pathomechanism and pathogenesis of dynamic canal stenosis caused by cervical instability in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and the validity of the concept of instability are clarified by analyzing the results of treatment in 53 cases. in cases of cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis, the authors found that the posterior slide of the vertebral body occurs as a result of degeneration in the cervical spine due to aging changes, and that the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal decreases with an increase of the degree of posterior slide. this is followed by gradual aggravation of the clinical symptoms. continuous cervical traction was found to be the first choice of treatment. surgical treatment is indicated in cases in which the traction was ineffective, or even when it was effective, in cases in which the japanese orthopaedic association (joa) score remained low or when there was a tendency toward rapid aggravation of symptoms. it was demonstrated that the shorter the duration of the myelopathy, the better the results of treatment obtained. a limit of the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal of 12 mm was considered as valid.
percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. when pancreatography shows a stenosis of the main pancreatic duct in patients with normal or inconclusive ultrasound and computed tomography, the exact nature of such stenosis is sometimes difficult to precise before surgical exploration. in such cases, the authors systematically performed a percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of the stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. fifteen patients were referred because of suspected pancreatic malignancy. the tumor markers, carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) and ca 19-9 were normal in 11 patients and elevated in one patient, whereas only ca 19-9 was elevated in three others. in 14 cases, both the ultrasound and computed tomography did not show any obvious pancreatic mass. the pancreatography was done through endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) (12 patients) or percutaneously in case of failure at ercp3 and showed a main pancreatic duct stenosis that underwent aspiration by percutaneous fine needle precisely positioned using biplane fluoroscopy. the aspirated material was then smeared on glass slides, air-dried, and stained by giemsa. in nine of the 15 patients, cytologic study revealed adenocarcinoma. this was confirmed by surgery in five and by progressive deterioration followed by death in four. in six patients, cytologic study gave a nonmalignant result. chronic pancreatitis was found in five of them, confirmed at surgery in three and based on uneventful follow-up of at least 12 months in two others. in one case, a pancreatic adenocarcinoma not detected by cytologic study was found at surgery. thus, the sensitivity and specificity of this diagnostic approach were 90% and 100%, respectively. no serious complication was noticed. the authors conclude that when ultrasound and computed tomography are inconclusive, percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance is a safe, simple, and helpful procedure in the investigation of patients with suspected pancreatic malignancy.
lesions that manifest as medial cheek and nasolabial fold masses. seventeen cases were collected in which the patient presented with a medial cheek or nasolabial fold mass. most of these lesions were uncommon, and some were rare. the most reliable differentiating finding was the type of associated bone involvement. the malignancies had bone erosion and as a group could be distinguished from the other masses. computed tomographic attenuation and magnetic resonance imaging signal intensities were nonspecific and did not allow a definitive diagnosis to be made. the types of pathologic conditions and their sectional imaging findings are reviewed.
intracoronary adenosine administration during reperfusion following 3 hours of ischemia: effects on infarct size, ventricular function, and regional myocardial blood flow. previous studies have demonstrated that adenosine significantly enhances myocardial salvage after 90 minutes of regional ischemia. to determine its effect after prolonged ischemia, closed-chest dogs underwent 3 hours of left anterior descending artery occlusion followed by 72 hours of reperfusion. intracoronary adenosine (3.75 mg/min; at 1.5 ml/min:total volume = 90 ml; n = 10) or an equivalent volume of saline (1.5 ml/min: total volume = 90 ml; n = 9) was infused into the left main coronary artery during the first 60 minutes of reperfusion. regional myocardial blood flow was assessed serially with microspheres and regional ventricular function was assessed by contrast ventriculography. infarct size was determined histologically. light and electron microscopy were utilized to assess neutrophil infiltration and microvascular injury. adenosine failed to reduce infarct size expressed as a percentage of the area at risk (38.0 +/- 4.9% versus 34.8 +/- 4.6%; p = ns) or to improve regional ventricular function as measured by the radial shortening method (3.2 +/- 1.8% versus 2.2 +/- 3.1%; p = ns) at 72 hours after reperfusion. vasodilatory effects were not observed in the endo- and midmyocardial regions of the ischemic zone during adenosine administration. this was associated with a similar extent of capillary endothelial changes and neutrophil infiltration in both adenosine-treated and saline control groups. these results suggest that severe functional abnormalities are present in the vasculature after 3 hours of ischemia and that adenosine therapy is ineffective in enhancing myocardial salvage.
early gastric cancer. twenty-eight-year experience. a retrospective study of early gastric cancer (60 patients) was performed to evaluate its diagnosis and treatment. ninety-five per cent of patients presented with nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms and 53.3% had been treated for presumed benign disease for up to 48 months before diagnosis. fiberoptic endoscopy detected these lesions more accurately than radiologic examination. the disease-free 5-year survival rate after resection was 76.4%. survival showed no significant correlation with sex, tumor site, macroscopic appearance, extent of gastric resection, or histopathologic type. tumors larger than 1.5 cm in diameter, invasion of submucosa, or lymph node metastasis resulted in significantly lower survival rates. three of eight patients with nodal metastasis survived 5 or more years, including one who had second-echelon deposits. a high index of suspicion may permit more frequent detection. extended lymphadenectomy (r2) is recommended to achieve the highest possible cure rate.
a model to predict multivessel coronary artery disease from the exercise thallium-201 stress test. purpose: the aim of this study was to (1) determine whether nonimaging variables add to the diagnostic information available from exercise thallium-201 images for the detection of multivessel coronary artery disease; and (2) to develop a model based on the exercise thallium-201 stress test to predict the presence of multivessel disease. patients and methods: the study populations included 383 patients referred to the university of virginia and 325 patients referred to the massachusetts general hospital for evaluation of chest pain. all patients underwent both cardiac catheterization and exercise thallium-201 stress testing between 1978 and 1981. results: in the university of virginia cohort, at each level of thallium-201 abnormality (no defects, one defect, more than one defect), st depression and patient age added significantly in the detection of multivessel disease. logistic regression analysis using data from these patients identified three independent predictors of multivessel disease: initial thallium-201 defects, st depression, and age. a model was developed to predict multivessel disease based on these variables. as might be expected, the risk of multivessel disease predicted by the model was similar to that actually observed in the university of virginia population. more importantly, however, the model was accurate in predicting the occurrence of multivessel disease in the unrelated population studied at the massachusetts general hospital. conclusion: it is, therefore, concluded that (1) nonimaging variables (age and exercise-induced st depression) add independent information to thallium-201 imaging data in the detection of multivessel disease; and (2) a model has been developed based on the exercise thallium-201 stress test that can accurately predict the probability of multivessel disease in other populations.
intraoperative blood pressure. what patterns identify patients at risk for postoperative complications? while monitoring blood pressure is a routine part of intraoperative management, several methods have been proposed to characterize intraoperative hemodynamic patterns as predictors of postoperative complications. in this prospective study of a high-risk population of hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery, one objective was to compare different approaches to the assessment of intraoperative hemodynamic patterns to identify those patterns most likely to be associated with postoperative complications. twenty-one per cent of the 254 patients sustained cardiac or renal complications after operation. patients with more than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases in mean arterial pressure (map) or patients with less than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases and more than 15 minutes of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg increases were at highest risk for postoperative complications. together these two patterns had a 46% sensitivity rate and a 70% specificity rate in predicting postoperative complications. using 20% change in intraoperative map produced results nearly identical to 20-mmhg changes. when the duration of 20-mmhg changes was accounted for, changes of a greater magnitude (e.g., 40 mmhg) were not significant independent predictors of complications. the use of the mean difference from preoperative map was misleading because patients who experienced both high and low maps tended to have nearly normal mean maps, but high complication rates. the absolute magnitude of intraoperative maps, regardless of the preoperative levels, also was evaluated. the overall mean intraoperative map was not a significant predictor of complications. specific intraoperative maps (e.g., less than 70 mmhg and more than 120 mmhg) also were evaluated. while neither was a significant predictor, there was a trend for increased complications among patients whose maps decreased to less than 70 mmhg. intraoperative blood pressure should be analyzed in relation to the patient's preoperative blood pressure. prolonged changes of more than 20 mmhg or 20% in relation to preoperative levels were significantly related to complications.
coronary angioplasty in young adults: initial results and late outcome. the initial and late outcome of coronary angioplasty was studied in 148 patients less than 40 years of age (mean 36.4 +/- 3). angioplasty was performed on a single vessel in 70% of patients and on multiple vessels in 30%; it was performed on a totally occluded vessel in 20%. angioplasty was successful in 90.5% of patients, unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 7.4% and complicated by myocardial infarction in 0.7%, emergency bypass surgery in 0.7% and death in 0.7%. at late (mean 3.7 +/- 3 years; range 0.5 to 11.5) follow-up study after successful angioplasty, 94% of patients were alive, 79% were free of angina and 85% had returned to work; late myocardial infarction occurred in 4%. actuarial survival at 5 years was 95%, and 85% of patients were free from death, infarction or bypass surgery. a second angioplasty was performed in 29 patients (22%) (mean 6.1 +/- 8.4 months) and was successful in 27 (93%), with no deaths. elective coronary bypass surgery was performed in 8.5% of patients, with perioperative infarction in 9% and no deaths. by univariate analysis, late death was more likely to occur in hypertensive patients (15% versus 2.5%; p less than 0.01) and diabetic patients (21.4% versus 3.6%; p less than 0.01). cox proportional hazard regression analysis identified hypertension (p = 0.007) and diabetes (p = 0.04) as independent time-related predictors of subsequent death. thus, early and late results after coronary angioplasty in young adults are favorable, but certain risk factors are important predictors of outcome. late revascularization procedures (repeat angioplasty or surgery) for restenosis or disease progression are common.
innervation territories for touch and pain afferents of single fascicles of the human ulnar nerve. mapping through intraneural microrecording and microstimulation. the peripheral distribution of the fibre content of individual ulnar nerve fascicles supplying skin and muscles of the hand in human volunteers was indirectly mapped by tracing the fields of projected sensation evoked by intraneural electrical microstimulation (inms) and by tracing receptive fields delineated through intraneural recording of afferent impulse activity elicited by natural stimulation of end organs. moderate intensity suprathreshold inms, delivered in cutaneous fascicles, induced nonpainful sensations projecting to stereotyped and coherent areas of skin, the fascicular projected fields (fpfs). fascicular receptive fields (frfs) were mapped during microneurographic recording by determining the area of skin which, when activated by light tactile stimuli, elicited afferent neural discharges recorded intraneurally. it was found that at a given electrode position in a skin nerve fascicle, moderate intensity inms induced nonpainful sensations projecting to a cutaneous field (fpf) that coincides with the frf, while high intensity inms induced painful sensations projecting within the cutaneous field of nonpainful sensations. pain induced by inms in muscle nerve fascicles was projected to the muscles innervated by that fascicle and, in most instances, to areas beyond the muscular receptive field. the study demonstrates that individual ulnar nerve fascicles, at wrist levels, subserve well-defined cutaneous territories in the hand, and that the area of skin covered by the sum of all ulnar fascicular receptive or projected fields matches the maximal possible cutaneous distribution of the ulnar nerve. insights of practical relevance regarding clinical expression of fascicular nerve injuries are also brought up by this study.
clinical trials. access and reimbursement. clinical trials continue to play an extremely important role in clinical oncology, but of the nearly 1 million cancer patients diagnosed in the united states each year, only 2.5% (25,000) participate in such trials. access to clinical trials has been enhanced by the adoption by the nci of a promotional campaign that involves seminars, dissemination of information to national and local news media, and assisting in making information about clinical trials available to patients and physicians. factors that hinder accrual of patients to clinical trials include: (1) physicians' concern about losing contact with patients, (2) physicians who feel that "experimental therapy" is not as good as "standard therapy," and (3) the time it takes to discuss and implement clinical trials. reimbursement for clinical trials has also become a major concern. who should pay for clinical research? many insurance companies have been reluctant to pay for "experimental therapy" but will pay for "standard therapy." if this trend continues, the whole concept and organization of clinical trials, i.e., phase i, ii, and iii trials, will be greatly hindered. solutions must be found, and third party payers need to realize that an investment in clinical trials today will decrease the long term costs of state-of-the-art care.
effects of nicardipine, a calcium antagonist, on myocardial salvage and high energy phosphate stores in reperfused myocardial injury. the current study determined the effectiveness of nicardipine, a 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, in preserving reperfused myocardium in a cat model of temporary coronary occlusion and ascertained if replenishment of myocardial phosphate stores during reperfusion as defined by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) spectroscopy was indicative of salvage. twenty open chest, anesthetized cats were studied with use of a snare ligature around the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery, with a coil sutured to the epicardial surface overlying the distribution of the artery. peak areas of phosphocreatine, inorganic phosphate and adenosine triphosphate (atp) nmr signals were measured during 1 h of occlusion followed by 1.5 h of reperfusion. infarct size and jeopardy area were determined in vitro by simultaneous infusion of phthalocyanine blue dye and triphenyltetrazolium chloride into the aorta and the left anterior descending coronary artery, respectively, after 5 h of myocardial reperfusion. nicardipine-treated and control groups had similar jeopardy area values (41.2 +/- 1.6% versus 47.4 +/- 3.1% of the left ventricle), but infarct area was significantly reduced in the nicardipine-treated group (3.2 +/- 1.1% versus 24.9 +/- 7.5% of jeopardy area, p less than 0.01). high energy phosphate compounds remained markedly altered during reperfusion in both groups. no significant improvement in phosphocreatine or inorganic phosphate recovery was observed in animals pretreated with nicardipine despite an 87% reduction in infarct size. myocardial atp was greater during reperfusion in the nicardipine-treated compared with the control group (average over initial 90 min of reperfusion 58 +/- 6% versus 46 +/- 3% of baseline values, p less than 0.05), suggesting improved recovery of atp. however, the measured levels of high energy phosphate compounds during reperfusion and their ratios did not correlate with infarct size and thus were not predictive of myocardial salvage.
total left main coronary artery occlusion after aortic aneurysm repair and valve replacement. a 38-year-old woman with complete occlusion of the left main coronary artery secondary to cannulation during aortic valve replacement is presented. the clinical course was characterized by progressive left ventricular dysfunction and congestive heart failure. recognition of this potential problem when it occurs is important as to institute therapeutic measures which may interrupt a patient's progressive clinical deterioration.
spinal epidural abscess: an unusual complication of a duodenal ulcer. a 50-year-old man had several months of progressively worse low-back pain associated with constitutional symptoms and a history of retroperitoneal tumor and bleeding duodenal ulcer. initial evaluation suggested a lumbar spine tumor, but myelography confirmed the presence of an epidural abscess. further evaluation revealed a duodeno-spinal fistula at the site of the previous duodenal ulcer, which proved to be the cause of the abscess.
septic arthritis of the c1-c2 lateral facet joint and torticollis: pseudo-grisel's syndrome. we present the case of a 76-year-old man who experienced the sudden development of fever, rightsided neck pain and stiffness, and torticollis. a soft tissue mass was noted on the right side of his neck, but his head was tilted to the left. computed tomography scans (with reformatted sagittal and coronal images) of the patient's cervical spine revealed destructive changes of the right lateral masses of c1 and c2 and the clivus, and a well-delineated peridontoid soft tissue mass (confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging). after the second episode of right-sided hemiparesis, he underwent transoral surgical exploration, with anterior decompression and odontoidectomy. histologic examination of the surgical material revealed granulation tissue, fibrosis, and chronic inflammation, consistent with abscess formation with invasion and compression of the spinal cord and bone. this case suggests that nonreducible rotational head tilt to the side opposite the side of lateral mass collapse should raise the suspicion of a possible infection.
forearm blood flow response to posture change in the very old: non-invasive measurement by venous occlusion plethysmography. little is known about the peripheral vascular response to posture change in very elderly people who are vulnerable to the development of orthostatic hypotension. this is due, in part, to the risks of currently utilized invasive vascular monitoring techniques in the elderly population. we studied the forearm vascular response to active standing in 18 healthy young, 10 healthy old, and 19 impaired elderly subjects, using the non-invasive technique of venous occlusion plethysmography. in six subjects this technique was compared to duplex doppler ultrasonography for the measurement of postural changes in forearm blood flow. forearm blood flow changes determined by venous occlusion plethysmography were 11% larger than doppler measurements, but the two methods strongly correlated (r = 0.90, p less than .001). mean forearm vascular resistance increased to a significantly greater extent at 1 minute of standing in young subjects than in both groups of old, although the response was quite variable in all groups. two healthy elderly (20%) and eight impaired elderly (40%) subjects had unexpected forearm vasodilatation at 1 minute of standing. by 3 minutes, forearm vascular resistance had increased by similar amounts in all three groups of subjects. five impaired elderly and no healthy young or healthy old subjects had orthostatic hypotension, defined as greater than or equal to 10 mm hg decline in mean arterial blood pressure at 1 or 3 minutes of standing. forearm vascular resistance changes did not correlate with blood pressure response to standing. thus, forearm vascular response to 1 minute of active standing is attenuated in many elderly subjects. this abnormality may impair adaptation to orthostatic stress in advanced age.
human cerebral malaria: association with erythrocyte rosetting and lack of anti-rosetting antibodies. plasmodium falciparum isolates from 24 gambian children with cerebral malaria and 57 children with mild forms of the disease were assessed for their ability to form erythrocyte rosettes. all isolates from the children with cerebral malaria were able to form rosettes, whereas those from children with mild forms of the disease did not form rosettes, or had a significantly lower rosetting rate. plasma of children with cerebral malaria lacked anti-rosetting activity, whereas plasma of children with mild disease could often disrupt rosettes in vitro. a monoclonal antibody to p falciparum histidine rich protein (pfhrp1/kp/kahrp) disrupted rosettes of many of the isolates in vitro indicating that the rosetting ligand is relatively conserved compared with ligands associated with endothelial cytoadherence. the findings strongly support the hypothesis that erythrocyte rosetting contributes to the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria and suggest that anti-rosetting antibodies protect against cerebral disease.
aerobic and anaerobic microbiology of acute suppurative parotitis. aspirates of pus from acute suppurative parotitis were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. bacterial growth was present in 23 specimens. a total of 36 bacterial isolates (20 anaerobic and 16 aerobic and facultative) were recovered, accounting for 1.6 isolates per specimen (0.9 anaerobic and 0.7 aerobic and facultative). anaerobic bacteria only were present in 10 (43%) patients, aerobic and facultatives in 10 (43%), and mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora in 3 (13%). single bacterial isolates were recovered in 9 infections, 6 of which were staphylococcus aureus and 3 were anaerobic bacteria. the predominant bacterial isolates were s. aureus (8 isolates), bacteroides sp. (6 isolates, including 4 bacteroides melaninogenicus group), and peptostreptococcus sp. (5). beta-lactamase-producing organisms were recovered from 11 (73%) of the 15 specimens tested. this study highlights the polymicrobial nature and importance of anaerobic bacteria in acute suppurative parotitis.
treatment of end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with double lung transplantation. six patients with end-stage emphysema (age 44 +/- 2 years) underwent double lung transplantation (tx) from june 1988 through may 1990. all suffered from severe inanition and required oxygen therapy. the ischemic time was 193 +/- 28 minutes. post-tx immune suppression was okt3 (14 days), cyclosporine (trough levels of 150 +/- 25 ng/ml), azathioprine to keep wbc at 3,000 to 5,000/cu mm (1 to 3.0 mg/kg/day) and following okt3, a tapering prednisone regimen. two rejection episodes that occurred in two patients on post-tx day 5 and 10 were treated with bolus doses of methylprednisolone. the mean hospital stay was 32 +/- 7 days (range, 20 to 69 days). four patients required treatment of cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection: gastritis (+donor, +recipient) in one and cmv pneumonia in two (+donor, -recipient). a fourth (+donor, -recipient) had right-sided candida empyema six weeks post-tx, developed cmv and staphylococcal sepsis, and died 64 days post-tx. one patient required pyloroplasty eight weeks post-tx and one patient underwent tracheal suture line repair at eight weeks. during a follow-up of 81 patients months (range, 8 to 24 months), one patient had developed epstein-barr viral (ebv) induced lymphoproliferative disease in the lung and one patient had developed ebv lymphoma. three patients are at work, one is continuing rehabilitation, and one is at home. double lung tx offers a definitive benefit to patients with emphysema; however, a prolonged postoperative course can be expected. viral infections remain serious but treatable problems.
early scintigraphic detection of experimental myocardial infarction in dogs with technetium-99m-glucaric acid recent data have generated some interest in technetium-99m-(99mtc) glucaric acid as an in vivo viability marker. we studied 99mtc-glucaric acid retention in canine models of myocardial ischemia (20-min occlusion of the lad/40-min reperfusion), acute myocardial infarction (mi) (90-min lad occlusion/3-hr reperfusion), and chronic mi (90-min occlusion and either 48-hr or 10-day reperfusion). regional myocardial blood flow was measured by radiolabeled microspheres. no preferential uptake of glucaric acid was observed in ischemic but viable myocardium. the compound showed high affinity for necrotic myocardial tissue for several days following injury. the preferential uptake in infarcted tissue disappeared by 10 days following injury. this study shows that 99mtc-glucaric acid acts exclusively as a marker of necrosis in canine models of mi. technetium-99m-glucaric acid may have clinical utility in early cardiac imaging of myocardial infarction and in differentiating recent from old injuries.
multicenter registry of angioplasty therapy of cardiogenic shock: initial and long-term survival. this retrospective multicenter study reviews the role of acute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in the treatment of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction to determine whether early reperfusion affects in-hospital and long-term survival. from 1982 to 1985, 69 patients were treated with emergency angioplasty to attempt reperfusion of the infarct-related artery. balloon angioplasty was unsuccessful in 20 patients (group 1) and successful in 49 patients (group 2). initial clinical and angiographic findings in the groups with unsuccessful and successful angioplasty were similar with respect to age (60.5 +/- 2.3 versus 57 +/- 1.8 years), infarct location (65% versus 65% anterior) and gender (65% versus 67% male). hemodynamic variables in the two groups, including systolic blood pressure (68 +/- 4.3 versus 73 +/- 1.6 mm hg), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (24.4 +/- 2.4 versus 27 +/- 1.0 mm hg) and initial ejection fraction (28.5 +/- 4% versus 32 +/- 2%), were also similar. twenty-nine patients received thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase; the overall rate of reperfusion was 34%. group 1 patients had a short-term survival rate of 20%, compared with 69% in group 2 patients (p less than 0.0005). thirty-eight patients survived the hospital period and were followed up for 24 to 54 months (mean 32.5 +/- 2.4). five patients (all in group 2) died during follow-up. the long-term incidence rate of congestive heart failure was 19%, arrhythmia 21%, need for repeat angioplasty 17% and coronary artery bypass grafting 26%. twenty-four month survival was significantly better in group 2 patients (54%) versus group 1 patients (11%, p = 0.003).
twelve-year incidence of coronary heart disease in middle-aged adults during the era of hypertensive therapy: the framingham offspring study [published erratum appears in am j med 1991 apr;90(4):537] purpose: to provide information on the incidence of coronary heart disease (chd) in the offspring of the original cohort from the framingham heart study. patients and methods: from 1972 to 1974, offspring of the original participants in the framingham heart study underwent a baseline examination for standard cardiovascular risk factors. at entry into the study, these offspring were 30 to 59 years old and free of chd. they were followed for 12 years, during which time 156 of 1,663 men and 55 of 1,714 women developed chd. results: in a multivariate proportional hazards model, chd was significantly associated with age, lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) levels, and number of cigarettes smoked. fasting glucose levels and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) were highly associated with chd in men, but borderline in women, while triglycerides and very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were not significantly associated with chd after adjustment for hdl-c and glucose. blood pressure medication was used in half of the hypertensive individuals, and systolic pressure was associated with chd in women only. conclusions: this study confirms the importance of the common chd risk factors of cigarette smoking and ldl-c, and extends the prognostic role of hdl-c in a middle-aged cohort. the impact of blood pressure, with or without use of hypertensive medications, was reduced in this study, and the data suggest that this attenuation was due to successful treatment.
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer: the results of a randomized trial. two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin (e) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone (lep) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone (hep). the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals. reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease, stable disease without symptomatic improvement, or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician. toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization (who) criteria of response and toxicity. two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis, 98% of whom have been followed for more than a year. one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep. significantly worse myelosuppression, alopecia, nausea and vomiting, and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm (p less than or equal to .001). more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm, and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease. a similar median number of courses was given in each arm. there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm (hep - complete response [cr] + partial response [pr] = 41%, lep - cr + pr = 23%). despite this, no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval. the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks, respectively.
flow cytometric dna analysis of parathyroid tumors. implication of aneuploidy for pathologic and biologic classification. the previous cytometric studies on parathyroid tumors have provided conflicting data regarding the relationship between dna content and histopathology, resulting from differences in technical methods and data analysis. this study measured nuclear dna of parathyroid tumors by flow cytometry in fresh material and determined whether dna aneuploidy really assists in making a pathologic diagnosis of carcinoma or not. from may 1987 through april 1989, 65 consecutive patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism had dna analysis of the freshly excised parathyroid tumors. three of the patients had metastatic lesions of parathyroid carcinoma in the lung, cervical lymph nodes, and lung and mediastinal lymph nodes, respectively. pathologic classifications of the lesions from the other 62 patients were 54 adenomas, four carcinomas, and four hyperplasias. in all the latter patients, hyperplasia was associated with a multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome. unequivocal evidence of aneuploidy was found in all of the metastatic lesions and 60% of the primary lesions of the carcinomas, in 9% of the adenomas and in 50% of the hyperplasias. therefore, parathyroid carcinomas were more apt to be aneuploid than were adenomas (p = 0.0015, both-sided testing). in each of the cases of aneuploid hyperplasia, a small aneuploid peak was found. the high incidence of aneuploidy in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 may indicate the presence of clonal heterogeneity of hyperplastic glands and the presence of an abnormal subset of cells that have malignant potential. cell distribution analysis did not provide any significant information beyond ploidy level. in conclusion, dna flow cytometric analysis of dna ploidy patterns is a valuable adjunct to the histopathologic diagnosis of parathyroid neoplasms.
in vitro activity of ly264826, a new glycopeptide antibiotic, against gram-positive bacteria isolated from patients with cancer. the in vitro activity of ly264826, a novel glycopeptide antibiotic produced by amycolatopsis orientalis, was compared with those of vancomycin, teicoplanin, and oxacillin against 311 gram-positive clinical isolates from patients with cancer, ly264826 had lower mics for 90% of isolates (mic90) than vancomycin for all species tested. it was active against oxacillin-resistant isolates including staphylococcus aureus (mic90, 0.5 micrograms/ml), staphylococcus haemolyticus (mic90, 2.0 micrograms/ml), enterococcus spp. (mic90, 0.5 micrograms/ml), bacillus cereus (mic90, 0.25 micrograms/ml), and corynebacterium jeikeium (mic90, 0.12 micrograms/ml). for s. aureus, including oxacillin-resistant isolates, the mics of ly264826 were similar to those of teicoplanin. for coagulase-negative staphylococci, however, ly264826 had mics that were 4- to 32-fold lower than those of teicoplanin. against most streptococcal species the activities of ly264826 and teicoplanin were similar. bactericidal activity against staphylococcus spp. and most streptococcus pyogenes isolates was less than or equal to 1 dilution of the mic. one isolate of s. pyogenes and all enterococcus faecalis strains tested were tolerant of ly264826, with mbcs greater than or equal to 32-fold greater than the mics. the addition of 50% human serum resulted in a significant increase in activity only against staphylococcus epidermidis. variations in ph from 6.4 to 8.4 and in inoculum from 10(3) to 10(7) cfu/ml did not significantly affect the activity of ly264826.
expression of class ii molecules on intestinal epithelial cells in humans. differences between normal and inflammatory bowel disease. expression of class ii antigens on human intestinal epithelial cells was assessed using a sensitive avidinbiotin-peroxidase technique. hla-dr was present predominantly in the normal small bowel with diminished but evident expression in the colon. hla-dp staining was less prominent, and hla-dq was absent. in inflammatory bowel disease the expression of both hla-dr and hla-dp was increased, but that for hla-dq remained absent, suggesting an inherent defect in the ability of intestinal epithelial cells to express hla-dq. in related experiments, an interferon gamma-treated malignant epithelial cell line t84 also failed to stain for hla-dq and hla-dp despite the presence of hla-dr. isolated rnas for all three subclasses of hla-d were detectable by slot-blot analysis, suggesting that the lack of hla-dq expression relates to posttranscriptional defects in intestinal epithelium. these and other differences with conventional class ii antigen-positive accessory cells (macrophages/b cells) may help to explain the unique properties of intestinal epithelial cells as antigen-presenting cells.
differential reading recovery in patients with severe to moderate closed head injury. a differential recovery was seen when alternate forms of a nationally standardized test of reading vocabulary, literal reading comprehension and inferential reading comprehension was administered serially to 10 consecutive closed head injury admissions to a university rehabilitation hospital. inferential reading comprehension was the most impaired and had the fastest recovery rate. subtle cognitive deficits in inferential reading comprehension were detected when reading vocabulary was at or better than a twelfth grade level. maximal recovery of all three reading functions occurred within 4 months after trauma, with most occurring in the first 3 months. the reading recovery pattern parallels the recovery of intelligence scores in the literature.
mortality in acute stroke with atrial fibrillation. the italian acute stroke study group. we compared 211 consecutive patients who had acute ischemic hemispheric stroke and atrial fibrillation with 837 consecutive patients who had stroke without atrial fibrillation. the atrial fibrillation group included a higher frequency of women, older subjects, and those with a severe neurologic deficit, abnormal computed tomogram, and elevated heart rate. the 1-month case-fatality rate in the atrial fibrillation group was 27% while that in the group without atrial fibrillation was 14%. the 6-month case-fatality rates in the two groups were 40% and 20%, respectively. the risk of death attributable to atrial fibrillation, adjusted for the effect of other prognostic factors, was significant at 1 month (relative risk = 1.55) and at 6 months (relative risk = 1.74). the causes of death were equally distributed in the two groups during both the acute and subacute phases. we conclude that atrial fibrillation is a negative prognostic factor in patients hospitalized for acute stroke. nevertheless, cerebral embolism alone does not completely explain the increase in mortality for stroke patients with atrial fibrillation. other associated pathogenetic mechanisms must also be taken into account.
interventional radiology of the biliary tract. transcholecystic intervention. diagnostic and therapeutic biliary intervention by percutaneous access to the gallbladder is an important new area in interventional radiology. the anatomy of the gallbladder, biliary tree, and surrounding viscera is reviewed in this article as a preliminary to discussion of the diagnostic techniques of aspiration, cholangiography, biopsy, and the therapeutic techniques of gallbladder drainage and cholelithotomy. recently there has been a bewildering proliferation of procedures aimed at removal, fragmentation, and dissolution of gallbladder stones. several of these are discussed in this article. removal of common bile duct stones by percutaneous cholecystostomy also is discussed.
mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome with splenosis. a case report. this is the first reported case of simultaneously occurring pelvic splenosis and mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome. no other congenital or anatomic abnormalities were observed in the patient, and she had no history of abdominal trauma or surgery. endometriosis was suspected initially during laparoscopy for pelvic pain. after tissue removal at laparotomy, the histologic evaluation established the diagnosis of splenosis. biopsy at laparoscopy should be considered to confirm the diagnosis in the presence of a congenital anomaly and lesions suspected of being endometriotic.
percutaneous puncture of a nondeflatable coronary artery angioplasty balloon. we report a case in which a balloon catheter became permanently inflated in a coronary artery saphenous vein bypass graft. while still inflated, the balloon was forcibly withdrawn from the graft into the external iliac artery and successfully deflated via percutaneous puncture using a chiba needle.
granulomatous hepatitis and fever of unknown origin. an 11-year experience of 23 cases with three years' follow-up. granulomatous hepatitis is a common cause of fever of unknown origin in up to 13% of patients with prolonged fever. attempts to define an exact etiology of the granulomatous hepatitis frequently does not yield a precise diagnosis, so that the physician must consider empiric treatment. in this paper we retrospectively review 23 patients in whom granulomatous hepatitis was found as part of the initial assessment of fever of unknown origin, and we report on their outcomes after an overall prospective follow-up of 37 months. in 26% a precise diagnosis was established at the time of assessment: q-fever in three, mycobacterial disease in two, and histoplasmosis in one. in the remaining 74% no etiology was established after 44 months follow-up. forty-one percent of the idiopathic group resolved spontaneously without therapy, and 18% received short-term prednisone or indomethacin with a favourable outcome. the remaining 41% required long-term prednisone therapy for a mean of 33.1 months, but all have remained afebrile and otherwise healthy after 59.6 months follow-up. we conclude that patients with fever of unknown origin who are diagnosed as having idiopathic granulomatous hepatitis have an excellent prognosis, even the minority who require long-term corticosteroids.
disposition of cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma: implications for radiosurgery radiosurgery is becoming more generally available and indications for its use continue to be defined. cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma are often treated with whole-brain irradiation, but with limited benefit. innovative treatments, such as radiosurgery, make possible the delivery of doses of radiation that are higher than usual. to determine how many patients might be candidates for radiosurgery, a retrospective analysis of computed tomographic brain scans performed on 41 patients with cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma was undertaken. one-third of these patients were found to have cerebral metastases amenable to a radiosurgical approach, as illustrated radiation dose-volume histograms. patient and tumor characteristics suggest that this series is represent with cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma. the implications of radiosurgery for normal tissue radiation tolerance and its effects on melanoma are discussed.
multifocal gastric carcinoma arising from hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps. this paper is a presentation of the unusual case of a 61-yr-old woman operated on for multiple gastric cancers. two of the cancers were found in the hyperplastic polyps and one in the adenoma. apart from cancers that arose from these polyps, there were four separate polypoid or flat gastric carcinomas and three other hyperplastic polyps with no signs of malignancy, in this case. the presentation is followed by a detailed discussion focusing on the possible development of carcinoma in gastric hyperplastic polyps in view of the data from the literature.
effects of heparin versus saline solution on intermittent infusion device irrigation. the purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of 1 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride with 10 units of heparin in 1 ml sodium chloride solution, both containing benzyl alcohol, in maintaining patency and reducing the incidence of phlebitis in patients with intermittent infusion devices. the subjects (n = 32) were randomly assigned in a double-blind experimental design. repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed no significant difference between the groups in phlebitis or patency variables. the results from this controlled study would suggest that 0.9% sodium chloride is as effective as 10 units of heparin in sodium chloride solution in maintaining intermittent infusion device patency and preventing phlebitis.
anti-ischemic effects of atenolol versus nifedipine in patients with coronary artery disease and ambulatory silent ischemia. the anti-ischemic effects of atenolol and nifedipine were compared in a randomized double-blind crossover manner in 24 patients with stable exertional angina and transient silent ischemia during ambulatory electrocardiographic (ecg) monitoring. both atenolol and nifedipine were effective (p less than 0.005) in reducing the average number and duration of transient ischemic events, but therapy with atenolol was associated with a significantly greater reduction in the mean number (p less than 0.05) and duration (p less than 0.01) of silent ischemic events. analyses of the silent ischemic activity during the morning hours revealed that only therapy with atenolol produced a significant reduction in the average duration per patient (139 +/- 54 vs. 1,609 +/- 468 s, p less than 0.01) and in the average duration of silent ischemia per event between 6 am and 12 noon (62 +/- 21 vs. 208 +/- 24 s, p less than 0.005). there were fewer adverse experiences during therapy with atenolol. these results show that although both atenolol and nifedipine are effective in reducing silent ischemic events, treatment with atenolol is associated with significantly greater efficacy, particularly on the morning surge of silent myocardial ischemia.
translocation breakpoint of acute promyelocytic leukemia lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. acute promyelocytic leukemias (apls) are characterized by a reciprocal balanced translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17 [t(15;17)]. we report the isolation and characterization of one of the two reciprocal break sites and demonstrate that the chromosome 17 breakpoint lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. nucleotide sequencing of the 15;17 cross-over junction on 15q+ showed that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene is truncated within its first intron, 370 base pairs upstream from the splicing donor site of exon ii. such a recombination would be expected to generate abnormal rar alpha mrna and protein. southern blot analysis of a number of apls with chromosome 15- and 17-derived dna probes revealed similar 15;17 recombinations in the majority of other apls. our data are strong evidence that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene plays a crucial role in the leukemogenesis of apl.
therapy of renal cell carcinoma with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells: phase ii experience with a hybrid bolus and continuous infusion interleukin-2 regimen. forty-seven patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma were treated with interleukin-2 (il-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (lak)-cell therapy, using a hybrid il-2 regimen. il-2 was administered initially by intravenous bolus (10(5) u/kg [cetus corp, emeryville, ca] every 8 hours for 3 days) during the priming phase, and subsequently by continuous infusion (3 x 10(6) u/m2 for 6 days); during this second treatment period, in vitro-generated lak cells were administered. despite selection of patients for good performance status (ps) (29, ps 0; 18, ps 1) prior nephrectomy (43 of the 47 patients), and low tumor burden, the response rate was low (two complete [crs] and two partial responses [prs], for an overall objective response rate of 9%). toxicity was comparable to that experienced with the high-dose bolus regimen. these results suggest that the dose and schedule of il-2 administration may influence the likelihood of response to il-2 in renal cell carcinoma.
chronic arterial occlusion with pge1-resistant skin lesions treated by glycosaminoglycan compound--case reports. the authors report on 2 patients with chronic arterial occlusion in whom the intravenous administration of the glycosaminoglycan compound fpfd 101 was markedly effective. one patient suffered from thromboembolic episodes of the left hand, and the other had peripheral circulatory impairment related to collagen disease. in these patients, the oral administration of anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents in combination with intravenous infusion of prostaglandin e1 was not adequately effective. however, the addition of intravenous injection of fpfd 101 resulted in a marked improvement in their symptoms. fpfd 101, which has an anticoagulant effect and also inhibits platelet aggregation, seems to be useful for the treatment and prevention of chronic arterial occlusion when combined with drugs such as anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents, and vasodilators.
correlation between essential tremor and migraine headache. the relationship between essential tremor (et) and migraine was investigated in a prospective study. in a group of 74 et patients 36.5% had migraine compared with 17.7% of 102 control subjects without tremor. in a group of 58 patients with migraine 17.2% had et compared with 1.2% of 85 controls without migraine. the prevalence of et in migraine controls was greater than controls without migraine (22% compared with 1%; p = 0.002). it is concluded that there is an association between essential tremor and migraine.
acute oculogyric crisis after administration of prochlorperazine. we report a case of acute oculogyric crisis due to prochlorperazine administration in a young black woman with a concomitant viral infection. neuroleptic medications are the most common cause of drug-induced acute dystonic reactions such as oculogyric crisis. prochlorperazine is an antiemetic agent with a phenothiazine-type chemical structure and is known to cause dystonic reactions. drug-induced acute dystonic reactions are most common in young adults and in men. viral infections may also predispose patients to these adverse reactions. caution is warranted when this drug is used in patients who have other risk factors for an acute dystonic reaction.
disseminated conidiobolus infection with endocarditis in a cocaine abuser. a crack cocaine abuser developed disseminated infection caused by a species of conidiobolus not known to cause disease in vertebrates. the fungus gained entry via skin abrasions on the lower extremities, spread through the hematogenous route, and caused endocarditis. there was evidence of fungal infection in the lungs, heart, kidneys, skeletal muscles, and brain. an additional complication was extensive rhabdomyolysis, with a marked elevation of creatine kinase of up to 1.2 million u/l.
recent advance in treatment of stanford type a aortic dissection. during the period between november 1986 and november 1988, 13 consecutive patients with stanford type a aortic dissection (8 acute and 5 chronic) were treated as follows: (1) urgent operation for cases with pericardial tamponade or severe heart failure, (2) initial medical treatment followed by elective operation for acute but stable cases or chronic cases, and (3) routine use of open distal anastomosis or selective cerebral perfusion. one patient died during medical treatment: 5 patients were operated on emergently. the remaining 2 acute and 5 chronic cases were operated on electively. there were no operative deaths, neurological disturbances, or late deaths. it is suggested that acute dissection of the ascending aorta requires immediate surgical intervention, especially when the entry is in the ascending aorta. on the other hand, it is also suggested that one could avoid emergency operations in selected cases with retrograde extension of the aortic dissection.
patellar resurfacing in total knee arthroplasty. technical errors in patellar resurfacing at the time of total knee arthroplasty (tka) are responsible for many of the complications that affect the patellofemoral joint. instability, patellar fracture, and wear of metal-backed patellar implants are significantly affected by errors of patellar resurfacing. a review of 50 tkas using a condylar prosthesis and a standardized technique for patellar resurfacing was performed to evaluate the accuracy of the technique. the patients were evaluated at a mean of 2.5 years (range, two to five years) after surgery. the hospital for special surgery knee score improved from a preoperative mean of 56 to 92 at the last evaluation. the hospital for special surgery knee scores were excellent in 92% and good in 8%. the knee society knee score improved from a preoperative mean of 28 for pain and 49 for function to a last evaluation mean of 96 for pain and 85 for function. none of the patients had symptoms referable to the patellofemoral joint. there were no patellar fractures, dislocations, or instances of implant loosening of the patella. roentgenograms revealed nine asymmetrically resurfaced patellae and five tilted patellae. there were no patellar subluxations. patellar thickness was maintained at the preoperative level of 21 mm. joint-line height was elevated 1 mm. the patellar height was decreased 2 mm from the preoperative height. using a standard technique, satisfactory clinical results can be achieved, but minor errors in resurfacing and alignment will still occur.
postnatal epilepsy after eeg-confirmed neonatal seizures. we examined infants whose neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal eeg tracings to determine the types and frequency of postnatal epilepsy (pne)--unprovoked, recurring postnatal seizures. perinatal and postnatal clinical and eeg variables were also examined for their relevance to pne. forty infants with eeg-documented neonatal seizures of diverse etiologies were studied. the 27 survivors were followed for a mean of 31 months. pne developed in 56% (15 of 27) of the cohort. the first seizure appeared at a mean-corrected age of 12.7 months and occurred despite ongoing antiepileptic medication in 60% (9 of 15) of the group. seizures were classified as infantile spasms or minor motor (7 patients), complex partial (4 patients), or generalized tonic-clonic (4 patients). perinatal variables that significantly correlated with pne included the presence of coma but not the age at seizure onset, the estimated gestational age, or apgar scores. pne occurred in 68% (13 of 19) of patients with moderately or markedly abnormal eeg backgrounds but in only 25% (2 of 8) without (p = 0.035). there was a strong trend for pne to develop in patients with greater than 10 electrographic seizures per hour but in only 45% (9 of 20) of infants with fewer seizures (p = 0.058). several postnatal variables were significantly related to pne--the presence of cerebral palsy (cp), mental retardation (mr), cp with mr, and follow-up eegs. pne occurred in only 27% (3 of 11) of patients without spikes or sharp waves on postnatal eegs performed at age 3 months but in 100% (3 of 3) of patients with spikes or sharp waves (p = 0.022).
epidermolysis bullosa acquisita and associated symptomatic esophageal webs. epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (eba) is a well-characterized, subepidermal blistering disorder associated with autoimmunity to type vii collagen, which is the collagen localized to anchoring fibrils within the dermoepidermal junction of skin. although the full clinical spectrum of eba is still being defined, it is known that the clinical features of eba may be reminiscent of hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, a scarring blistering disease of children that is commonly associated with esophageal stenosis. we describe a patient with eba who had both an acral-predominant mechanobullous disease akin to dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and an inflammatory, widespread bullous eruption reminiscent of bullous pemphigoid in association with esophageal webs and dysphagia. although esophageal involvement is common in dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, a review of the literature shows that this is the first bonafide case of eba with symptomatic esophageal disease.
simplified technique for isolating vascularized rib periosteal grafts. a modified technique for obtaining a vascularized rib periosteal segment utilizing the posterolateral approach is presented. the technique avoids the inclusion of a large muscle cuff or the pleura around the isolated rib segment and therefore minimizes donor-site morbidity and chest complications previously associated with this approach.
long-term results after atrial correction of complete transposition of the great arteries. this study presents the late results for the first 104 consecutive patients surviving and atrial repair for transposition of the great arteries (tga) between january 1971 and december 1978 (group 1). mean follow-up was 12 years (range, 0.1 to 17.7 years). the actuarial survival rate at 18 years was 84.2% (70% confidence limits, 79% to 88%) for simple tga and 93.7% (70% confidence limits, 84% to 97%) for complex tga. nine of the 11 deaths were sudden. two (2.6%) of the 78 late survivors operated on for simple tga are in new york heart association functional class iii or iv versus 4 (26.7%) of the 15 survivors with complex tga; the other patients are doing very well. to better assess long-term results, we report the findings for randomly obtained electrocardiograms, holter monitor recordings, radionuclide angiographic studies, and cardiac catheterizations performed in 1987 in a larger group of 159 long-term survivors of atrial repair operated on at ospedale riuniti di bergamo from january 1971 to december 1984 (group 2), which includes all of group 1. the findings confirm that the arterial switch repair is the procedure of choice for complex tga and that there is a major incidence (approximately 10%) of systemic right ventricular dysfunction and rhythm disturbances after the atrial repair. on the other hand, our late survival rate at 18 years of 84% for simple tga with 97.5% of the patients in functional class i is a result that should be kept in mind, especially in institutions where the arterial switch is a relatively new approach and presumably is a higher risk to cause early death.
morphological changes and smooth muscle cell proliferation after experimental excimer laser treatment. background. little is known about the mechanism(s) in the development of restenosis after excimer laser angioplasty. thus, the rationale of this study was to determine the time course of intimal and medial smooth muscle cell (smc) proliferation and histomorphological changes after experimental excimer laser treatment. methods and results. laser ablation was performed in the right carotid artery of 34 new zealand white rabbits after development of a fibromuscular plaque by repeated weak electrical stimulations. the vessels were excised 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 42 days after excimer laser treatment. staining of alpha-actin was used to identify smcs. in five rabbits (15%), a stenosis of more than 50% of luminal area was due to intimal proliferation of smcs, and in four other rabbits, a total occlusion was due to organized thrombi. after the initial ablation of the performed plaque (13 +/- 6 intimal smc layers) a continuous increase of intimal wall thickness was found from 7 +/- 6 smc layers at 7 days to 28 +/- 5 intimal smc layers at 28 days after excimer laser ablation (p less than 0.01). after 42 days, no additional increase of intimal thickening occurred. after bromodeoxyuridine labeling, the extent of cell proliferation (percent of cells undergoing dna synthesis) in the intima and media was determined using a monoclonal antibody against bromodeoxyuridine. immunohistological quantification of smc proliferation in the intima revealed a significant increase of cells undergoing dna synthesis at 3 (p less than 0.05) and 14 (p less than 0.01) days after laser treatment. medial proliferation of smcs was delayed and had a significant increase 7 days (p less than 0.05) after intervention. twenty-one days after laser treatment, smc proliferation in the intima as well as in the media was normalized. conclusions. the proliferative response of smcs after experimental excimer laser treatment will occur as a dynamic process with a maximum of smcs undergoing dna synthesis during 14 days after laser ablation, resulting in an increase of intimal thickening within 4 weeks after laser treatment. the extent of intimal hyperplasia due to smc proliferation after excimer laser treatment is comparable with the effect of transluminal balloon angioplasty in this experimental model.
coronary angioplasty following cardiac transplantation: a case report and review of the literature. a 23-year-old man underwent successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a severe stenosis of the left anterior descending artery 25 months after orthotopic heart transplantation. four months later restenosis of the same lesion was treated by repeat ptca. angiography 11 months later showed no restenosis. in selected cases, ptca may be useful in treating allograft coronary disease.
caseating hepatic granulomas in hodgkin's lymphoma. a 68-year-old man presented with recurrent hodgkin's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy. in addition to histological evidence of recurrent hodgkin's disease, the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas. cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for mycobacterium tuberculosis. no antituberculous treatment was administered, and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma. hodgkin's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver.
acute hemodynamic effects of intravenous diperdipine, a new dihydropyridine derivative, in coronary heart disease. the acute hemodynamic effects of a new dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, diperdipine, which is suitable for intravenous administration, were studied by right and left cardiac catheterization in 16 patients with coronary heart disease. diperdipine markedly reduced systemic vascular resistance and improved stroke index and left ventricular ejection fraction. mean pulmonary artery and wedge pressures were slightly increased as a possible consequence of enhanced venous return, whereas right atrial and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures were not significantly changed. nevertheless, an increase in preload was clearly indicated by an augmented left ventricular end-diastolic volume index after administration of diperdipine. left ventricular contractility, which was estimated by the end-systolic pressure-volume ratio and by dp/dt max was not significantly changed, though analysis of individual data suggests a minimally negative inotropic effect. however, such a minor effect on left ventricular contractility was largely counterbalanced by the marked reduction of afterload, which produced a sharp improvement of stroke index. enhancement of left ventricular ejection fraction and reduction in systemic vascular resistance were inversely and directly correlated to control values. overall, diperdipine was well tolerated, but one patient had a major untoward reaction that consisted of an ischemic episode that was possibly related to drug administration. in conclusion, intravenous diperdipine appears to be a potent arteriolar dilating agent that does not affect left ventricular contractility.
simultaneous hepatoblastoma in identical male twins. identical male twin infants who in 1987 presented with hepatoblastoma at the age of 7 months are reported. twin b was admitted for investigation due to enlarged liver and spleen. he was found to have an inoperable hepatoblastoma of fetal type and was treated with chemotherapy and local irradiation. however, 7 months after the chemotherapy the tumor recurred. the asymptomatic twin a was examined because of the known familial cases, and he proved to have an identical tumor. he was successfully radically operated on and 2 years after the chemotherapy is still doing well with no evidence of tumor. as the mother and the maternal grandmother had polyps in the colon, quite probably the hepatoblastomas of the twins were associated with familial adenomatous polyposis.
donor seropositivity and prednisolone therapy as risk factors for cytomegalovirus infection and disease in cyclosporin-treated renal allograft recipients. we attempted to assess the importance of blood transfusion, donor seropositivity, and prednisolone therapy as risk factors for cytomegalovirus infection in cyclosporin-treated renal allograft recipients. primary infection was diagnosed in 27 of 86 patients (31 per cent) and recurrent infection in 27 of 79 patients (34 per cent). receipt of banked blood from unselected donors after transplantation did not increase the incidence of primary infection in the few transfused patients. kidney donor seropositivity and maintenance prednisolone in addition to cyclosporin were associated with increases in the incidence of primary or recurrent infection, respectively. cytomegalovirus infection was clinically mild. presumed bacterial pneumonias occurred in three patients with recurrent cytomegalovirus infection. the absence of severe cytomegalovirus disease probably reflected the minimal use of prednisolone. matching of seronegative donors with seronegative recipients seemed unjustifiable in cyclosporin-treated renal transplant patients.
carbon monoxide-induced delayed amnesia, delayed neuronal death and change in acetylcholine concentration in mice. we investigated the interrelationship of delayed amnesia, delayed neuronal death and changes in acetylcholine concentration induced by carbon monoxide (co)-exposure in mice. in the test for retention of the passive avoidance task, amnesia was observed 5 and 7 days after co-exposure when the mice were exposed to co 1 day after training; in the case when the mice were exposed to co 5 and 7 days before training, amnesia was also observed in a retention test given 1 day after training. the number of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal ca1 subfield was lower than that of the control 3, 5 and 7 days after co-exposure. but the neurodegeneration in the parietal cortex, area 1, was not observed until 7 days after co-exposure. the findings indicated that the amnesia and the neuronal death were produced after a delay when the mice were exposed to co. in addition, the delayed amnesia was closely related to the delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal ca1 subfield. moreover, [3h]glutamate and [3h]glycine binding sites did not change after co-exposure but, 7 days after co-exposure, the concentration of acetylcholine and the binding of [3h]quinuclidinyl benzilate in the frontal cortex and the striatum were found to have significantly changed, but those in the hippocampus did not show significant change. therefore, we suggest that delayed amnesia induced by co-exposure may result from delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal ca1 subfield and dysfunction in the acetylcholinergic neurons, in the frontal cortex, the striatum and/or the hippocampus.
preventing postoperative acute bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract. two hundred and ninety-eight critically ill patients at risk for the development of postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding were randomized into three groups. the first group comprised 85 patients who received meciadanol, a new bioflavonoid, 500 milligrams every six hours through a nasograstric tube; the second group comprised 100 patients who received sucralfate (crushed tablets), 1,000 milligrams every six hours through a nasogastric tube, and the third group comprised 113 patients who received an antacid (maalox [magnesium aluminum hydroxide gel]) through a nasogastric tube at an initial dose of 15 milliliters every hour. the gastric ph was measured hourly and titrated to a ph greater than or equal to 4.0 in patients in the group receiving the antacid. the gastric ph was measured every two hours in the other two groups. bleeding in the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract was determined visually (frank blood in gastric contents) or by guaiac testing. bleeding occurred in seven patients receiving meciadanol, nine receiving sucralfate and six receiving the antacid. the difference in rates of bleeding was not statistically significant. correlation between the severity of illness index and the development of bleeding was poor, at least in the low and intermediate index range. in contrast, there was a strong correlation between the age of the patient and the development of bleeding. only one patient younger than 50 years had bleeding develop. apparently, meciadanol exerts its action by a mechanism other than ph control. it may, therefore, fill an important gap in the ability to prevent postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding.
changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review, 1981 to 1986 we measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system. we developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 medicare patients with congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, pneumonia, cerebrovascular accident, or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986. very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission (17% with very good care died vs 30% with very poor care). the quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 (from 25% receiving poor or very poor care to 12%), although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition (7% vs 4%). except for discharge planning processes, the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for medicare patients despite, or because of, the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review.
effects of bepridil and diltiazem on ventricular repolarization in angina pectoris. to examine the time-course and potential predictors of prolongation of ventricular repolarization with the calcium antagonist bepridil, the effects of bepridil (300 to 500 mg/day; n = 45) and diltiazem (180 to 300 mg/day; n = 42) on qt and qtc interval duration were analyzed in a randomized double-blind study in patients with angina pectoris. electrocardiograms were recorded before and 14, 28, 70 and 112 days after treatment was begun. after 14 days, bepridil prolonged qt interval by 26 +/- 35 ms (range, -60 to 120 ms) and qtc (bazett's formula) by 17 +/- 33 ms (range, -73 to 107 ms) compared to baseline (both p less than 0.05). qt or qtc did not significantly increase thereafter. however, among the 30 patients who had less than 40 ms qtc prolongation at day 14 compared with baseline, 13 (43%) exceeded this limit on at least 1 of the following visits. diltiazem did not significantly alter qt or qtc intervals. the absolute change in qtc interval from baseline observed after 14 days of bepridil therapy was inversely proportional to the baseline qtc interval (r = -0.68; n = 42; p less than 0.001). the degree of bepridil-induced qtc prolongation on day 14 correlated with pretreatment rr interval (r = 0.36; n = 42; p less than 0.02). in conclusion, chronic administration of bepridil but not of diltiazem prolongs ventricular repolarization in patients with angina pectoris. the overall effects of bepridil therapy on qt and qtc intervals can be assessed by an electrocardiogram recorded after 14 days of treatment but subsequent measurements may be required in individual patients. a short baseline qtc interval and a slow initial heart rate may be potentially useful predictors of a greater qtc prolongation with bepridil.
mutations of the ras proto-oncogenes in childhood monosomy 7. ras gene mutations are the most frequent molecular changes found in the preleukemic syndromes of adults and may play a role in initiating these diseases and in their progression to acute leukemia. however, little is known about the incidence or importance of these genetic mutations in childhood myeloproliferative states (mps). the bone marrow (bm) monosomy 7 syndrome accounts for a large percentage of childhood mps. although the duration of the mps is quite variable, children with monosomy 7 eventually develop acute myeloid leukemia (aml). we investigated 20 children (13 with mps, 7 with aml) with bm monosomy 7 or 7q- for the presence of ras gene mutations using the polymerase chain reaction and hybridization with mutation-specific oligonucleotides. mutations of n-ras and k-ras were detected in three children. two patients carrying a ras mutation were in the myeloproliferative phase, and one had acute leukemia. all three patients with ras mutations either died of their disease or relapsed after bm transplantation as compared with 8 of 17 without ras mutations. however, this difference is not statistically significant (p = .14, not significant). we conclude that ras mutations are observed in childhood monosomy 7, though less frequently than in adult mds, and may play a limited role in the progression of this disease to acute leukemia. more patients are needed to address the prognostic role of ras mutations in this rare disease.
vitamin e and cancer prevention. some animal experiments and human studies suggest that vitamin e may protect against cancer. serum alpha-tocopherol concentration was studied for its prediction of cancer in a cohort of 36,265 adults in finland. during a mean follow-up of 8 y, cancer was diagnosed in 766 persons. the levels of serum alpha-tocopherol were determined from stored serum samples (at -20 degrees c) taken from these cancer patients and from 1419 matched control subjects. individuals with a low level of alpha-tocopherol had about a 1.5-fold risk of cancer compared with those with a higher level. the strength of the association between serum alpha-tocopherol level and cancer risk varied for different cancer sites and was strongest for some gastrointestinal cancers and for the combined group of cancers unrelated to smoking. the association was strongest among nonsmoking men and among women with low levels of serum selenium. the findings agree with the hypothesis that dietary vitamin e in some circumstances protects against cancer.
pericardial metastasis from testicular seminoma: appearance and disappearance by echocardiography. at the time of initial diagnosis, testicular malignancy is usually limited to the testicle and infradiaphragmatic lymph nodes. metastases initially follow the retroperitoneal lymph channels and subsequently extend to the supradiphragmatic lymph nodes in the mediastinum and supraclavicular fossa. testicular metastases to the pericardium are rare and usually asymptomatic. these lesions are most commonly identified at autopsy; therefore, the actual incidence is unknown. the authors report a 32-year-old man with testicular carcinoma, who developed asymptomatic pericardial metastases without concomitant supradiaphragmatic nodal or pulmonary metastases. they review the efficacy of echocardiography in diagnosis and follow up or pericardial metastasis.
superior protective effect of low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution on ischemic myocardium. clinical study in comparison with st. thomas' hospital solution. the protective effect of low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution on ischemic myocardium has been assessed in adult patients undergoing heart operations. postreperfusion recovery of cardiac function and electrical activity was evaluated in 34 patients; 16 received low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution (group i) and 18 received st. thomas' hospital solution, which is enriched with calcium and magnesium (group ii). there were no significant differences between the two groups in age, sex, body weight, and new york heart association functional class. aortic occlusion time (107.3 +/- 46.8 minutes versus 113.6 +/- 44.3 minutes), highest myocardial temperature during elective global ischemia (11.5 degrees c +/- 3.1 degrees c versus 9.3 degrees c +/- 3.2 degrees c), and total volume of cardioplegic solution (44.2 +/- 20.5 ml/kg versus 43.4 +/- 17.6 ml/kg) were also similar in the two groups. on reperfusion, electrical defibrillation was required in four cases (25.5%) in group i and in 15 cases (83.3%) in group ii (p less than 0.005), and bradyarrhythmias were significantly more prevalent in group ii (6.3% versus 44.4%; p less than 0.05). serum creatine kinase mb activity at 15 minutes of reperfusion (12.3 +/- 17.0 iu/l versus 42.6 +/- 46.1 iu/l; p less than 0.05) and the dose of dopamine or dobutamine required during the early phase of reperfusion (1.8 +/- 2.5 micrograms/kg/min versus 6.1 +/- 3.3 micrograms/kg/min; p less than 0.0002) were both significantly greater in group ii. postischemic left ventricular function, as assessed by percent recovery of the left ventricular end-systolic pressure-volume relationship in patients who underwent aortic valve replacement alone, was significantly better in group i (160.4% +/- 45.5% versus 47.8% +/- 12.9%; p less than 0.05). serum level of calcium and magnesium ions was significantly lower in group i. thus low-calcium, magnesium-free potassium cardioplegic solution provided excellent protection of the ischemic heart, whereas st. thomas' hospital solution with calcium and magnesium enabled relatively poor functional and electrical recovery of the heart during the early reperfusion period. these results might be related to differing levels of extracellular calcium and magnesium on reperfusion.
effect of nifedipine on total ischemic activity and circadian distribution of myocardial ischemic episodes in angina pectoris. a randomized, double-blind, crossover study was conducted in 10 patients to assess the effect of nifedipine versus placebo on total ischemic activity and circadian distribution of ischemic episodes. after baseline exercise treadmill testing and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic st-segment monitoring, patients received either nifedipine (mean dose, 80 mg/day) or placebo administered 4 times per day, with the initial dose taken immediately upon arising in the morning. patients were maintained on a stable dose of each study drug for 7 days, after which they underwent repeat exercise treadmill testing and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiography. during exercise treadmill testing, greater exercise duration was achieved by patients receiving nifedipine than by those receiving placebo (421 +/- 121 vs 353 +/- 155 seconds, respectively; p less than 0.05). time to greater than or equal to 1 mm st depression was significantly greater with nifedipine (282 +/- 146 seconds) than at baseline (130 +/- 72 seconds, p less than 0.003) and with placebo (150 +/- 98 seconds, p less than 0.0005). during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, nifedipine reduced both the total number of ischemic episodes (18 vs 54 at baseline and 63 with placebo; p less than 0.02 for both) and the total duration of ischemia (260 vs 874 at baseline and 927 minutes with placebo; p less than 0.02 for both). the surge of ischemia between 06:00 and 12:00 noted at baseline and during placebo therapy was nearly abolished during nifedipine treatment. nifedipine at this dosage, administered in this manner, is effective in reducing total ischemic activity and may prevent morning surges of ischemic episodes.
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period, 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit. abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses, including trisomy 18 (n = 16), trisomy 13 (n = 1), triploidy (n = 1) and translocation down's syndrome (n = 2). all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts.
immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of postoperative recoarctation in infants and children. the purpose of this article is to present immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of aortic recoarctations following previous surgery in infants and children. during a 45-month period that ended in june 1989, nine infants and children, ages 6 months to 7 years, underwent balloon angioplasty of recoarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 52 +/- 20 mm hg (mean +/- sd) to 16 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than 0.001) and increase in coarctation segment size from 3.4 +/- 1.4 mm to 6.1 +/- 1.6 mm (p less than 0.01). none required surgical intervention. there were no significant complications. follow-up catheterization (16 +/- 7 months) data in six children and follow-up clinical (17 +/- 6 months) data in all children were available for review. both the residual coarctation pressure gradient (6 +/- 6 mm hg) and coarctation segment size (8.2 +/- 2.4 mm) remain improved (p less than 0.001) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values and the pressure gradient fell further (p less than 0.01) when compared with that measured immediately after balloon angioplasty. none developed restenosis, although one child required surgical relief of severe narrowing of isthmus of the aortic arch. none developed aneurysms. on the basis of this experience and that reported in the literature and because of high morbidity and mortality rates associated with repeat surgery for postoperative recoarctation, we recommend balloon angioplasty as the procedure of choice for relief of postoperative recoarctation with significant hypertension.
urinary tissue factor activity in colorectal disease. procoagulant activity (pca) in normal urine has been recognized for over 50 years. although tissue factor (tf) is produced by certain tumours, and is increased in both tumour-associated macrophages and blood monocytes, the possibility that it might also be increased in urine has not been studied in patients with cancer. we have measured urinary pca in hospital controls without inflammatory or neoplastic disease (n = 79), in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (n = 8), inflammatory bowel disease (n = 19), colorectal cancer (n = 70) and in patients undergoing colonoscopy (n = 50). urinary pca was higher (p less than 0.001) in patients with colorectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease than controls or patients with rheumatoid arthritis. fourteen (88 per cent) out of 16 colonoscopy patients subsequently found to have carcinoma or inflammatory bowel disease had levels above the control upper quartile, compared with 8 (24 per cent) out of 34 with normal colonoscopy (p less than 0.001). tf inhibitors confirmed the nature of the pca and western blotting studies indicated a urinary tf molecular weight of approximately 38,000. these studies provide further evidence of abnormal haemostasis in malignancy and suggest that determination of urinary tf may provide a useful screening test in patients undergoing colonoscopy.
efficacy of celiprolol in the elderly hypertensive patient. with the rapidly increasing average age of the population of the western world, care and treatment of the elderly are becoming increasingly important. cardiovascular diseases are major causes of death and disability in the elderly; hence, identification of cardiovascular risk factors and effective treatment are essential. evidence indicates that these risk factors in the elderly are similar to those in the young; namely, high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, glucose intolerance, hyperfibrinogenemia, obesity, and cigarette smoking. the latter two relate to general patient management, whereas the remainder can be significantly influenced by modern drug therapy such as celiprolol. this drug is a third-generation highly selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory activity giving a unique and advantageous pharmacologic profile for antihypertensive therapy with particular benefits for the elderly. the impact of therapy with celiprolol on the cardiovascular risk factors in the elderly hypertensive patient is reviewed.
aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic factors and recovery of beta-lactamase producing bacteria from obstetric and gynecologic infection. specimens obtained from 736 patients with obstetric and gynecologic infections were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. bacterial growth was present in 714 specimens. these included 53 specimens of infected fallopian tubes, 470 of infected endometrium, 94 of infected amniotic fluid, 57 of aspirates of cul-de-sacs in instances of pelvic inflammatory disease, 14 labial and vaginal abscesses and 26 of bartholyn's cyst abscess. a total of 2,052 isolates (2.9 per specimen), 1,139 anaerobes (1.6 per specimen) and 913 aerobic or facultative (1.3 per specimen) were recovered. the most commonly isolated anaerobic bacteria was bacteroides species (566 isolates), which included bacteroides bivius (151), bacteroides fragilis group (130), bacteroides melaninogenicus group (110) and bacteroides ureolyticus (47). others included an anaerobic gram-positive cocci (391), clostridium species (48) and fusobacterium species (36). the most frequently recovered aerobic and facultative bacteria were lactobacillus species (169), escherichia coli (85), neisseria gonorrhoeae (62), staphylococcus aureus (59) and group b streptococcus (55). three hundred and sixty-five (18 per cent) of the isolates recovered from 276 (39 per cent) patients were beta-lactamase producing organisms (blpo); 222 (61 per cent) anaerobes and 143 (39 per cent) aerobes or facultatives. the most common blpo were b. fragilis group, b. bivius, b. melaninogenicus, b. disiens, enterobacteriaceae and s. aureus. these data illustrate the polymicrobial nature and important role of blpo in obstetric and gynecologic infection.
postoperative hypertension: a prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind trial, with intravenous nicardipine hydrochloride. nicardipine hydrochloride, a new calcium channel blocker for intravenous use, has been compared with placebo in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial on postoperative hypertension. of 175 patients who signed preoperative consent, 24 (13.7%) met entry criteria. hypertension was significantly better controlled in nicardipine-treated patients compared with those receiving placebo (93% versus 30%, p less than 0.05). all the placebo failures were subsequently successfully treated with nicardipine. there were no significant complications in either group. the authors conclude that nicardipine hc1 is an effective, safe therapy for postoperative hypertension. further studies are now indicated comparing it with other drugs currently used to treat this condition.
muscle biopsy for diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility in two patients with severe exercise-induced myolysis. muscle biopsy and in vitro contracture tests for diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia (mh) were performed in two patients who had developed fever and severe myolysis during exercise. mh susceptibility was confirmed in one patient, but in the other, exercise-induced heat stroke proved to be the correct diagnosis. clinical presentation and epidemiology of exercise-induced mh and its relation to the heat stroke syndrome are discussed.
orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach for a high basilar tip aneurysm associated with a short intracranial internal carotid artery: a new surgical approach. for two cases of a high basilar tip aneurysm accompanied by a short intracranial internal carotid artery, the orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach consisting of an en bloc fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal craniotomy and temporopolar approach was carried out. on angiograms, the height of the bifurcation of an elongated basilar artery and the length of the intracranial internal carotid artery from the interclinoid line between the anterior and posterior clinoid process were 20 mm and 6 mm in case 1, and 18 mm and 5 mm in case 2, respectively. the skin flap was separated subfascially to preserve the frontotemporal branch of the facial nerve. the fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal bone flap was made, and a part of the basal bony structures of the orbital roof, the sphenoid ridge, and the temporal bone were removed. the basilar tip aneurysm could be seen and clipped easily by upward and oblique viewing from below through the wide operative space consisting of the less retracted internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries, the oculomotor nerve, the tentorial hiatus, and the emptied anterior temporal fossa obtained by partial division of the temporal bridging veins. the operative procedure is presented in detail and compared with other surgical approaches that have been described previously.
fractures of the clivus: classification and clinical features. fractures of the clival complex were diagnosed in a series of 17 patients admitted to the maryland institute for emergency medical services system and the university of maryland medical system over a 30-month period. these fractures were divided pathologically into three types based upon their appearance on computed tomography: longitudinal, transverse, and oblique. the mechanisms of injury were similar in all groups, and the glasgow coma scale scores at admission were comparable, regardless of fracture type, in survivors and nonsurvivors. longitudinal fractures were associated with severe injury to the central nervous system and with brain stem infarction, and 4 of 6 (67%) of these patients died. transverse fractures of the clival complex were found in 6 patients, 3 of whom (50%) died. all of these patients had fractures of the petrous ridge; 2 of the 3 survivors had multiple cranial nerve deficits, and one patient developed a carotid-cavernous fistula. of the 5 patients with oblique clival fractures, 2 survived (40%), both of whom had multiple cranial nerve palsies; in addition, one of these patients developed a carotid-cavernous fistula. using the present generation of computed tomographic scanners, fractures of the clival complex can be reliably diagnosed; they are probably more common than previously believed and can be separated into three groups based on the characteristics on computed tomographic scans and clinical findings.
perianal abscess and fistula-in-ano in children. the authors present a retrospective review of 40 pediatric patients with perianal abscess and/or fistula-in-ano. the total patient population could be divided clinically into 2 broad groups. the first group consisted of 22 infants younger than 2 years of age, all of whom were males, and 10 of whom presented with recurrences after previous incision and drainage. of the 14 infants presenting with an abscess, in 12 (85.7 percent), a fistula-in-ano was discovered at surgery. in contrast, in the group of 18 children older than 2 years of age, there were 7 females and 11 males, and fistulas were identified in only 7 of 13 patients (54.8 percent) who presented with abscesses. surgical treatment consisted of examination under anesthesia and a diligent search for a fistulous tract. abscesses were primarily saucerized and fistulotomy and cryptotomy of the confluent crypt was performed if a fistulous tract was identified. the only recurrences with this form of treatment occurred in the two immunocompromised patients.
high blood cholesterol in elderly men and the excess risk for coronary heart disease. objective: to determine whether high blood cholesterol is an important risk factor for mortality from coronary heart disease in elderly men. design: cohort study with a mean follow-up of 10.1 years. setting: a health maintenance organization. patients: the cohort included 2746 white men 60 to 79 years of age who had no self-reported history of coronary heart disease. measurement and main results: a total of 260 deaths occurred during 27,842 person-years of follow-up. the relative risk for mortality from coronary heart disease in men 60 to 79 years of age in the highest serum cholesterol quartile was 1.5 (95% ci, 1.2 to 2.0) compared with those in the three lower quartiles combined. the relative risk did not change greatly with age, ranging from 1.4 in men 60 to 64 years of age to 1.7 in men 75 to 79 years of age. however, because mortality from coronary heart disease increased with age, the excess risk for such mortality attributable to elevated serum cholesterol levels increased fivefold over these 20 years, from 2.2 deaths per 1000 person-years to 11.3 deaths per 1000 person-years. conclusions: our results support those of other observational studies in elderly men. if treatment of high blood cholesterol is as effective in reducing cholesterol-related risk for coronary heart disease after 65 years of age as it is in middle-aged men, it might actually produce greater reductions in mortality due to coronary heart disease. a clinical trial is needed to confirm this extrapolation.
trisomy 13: a new recurring chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia. a new recurring chromosome abnormality was identified in 8 of 621 consecutive successfully karyotyped adults with de novo acute leukemia. these eight patients had trisomy 13 as the sole cytogenetic abnormality. on central morphologic review, five cases were classified as subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia, one as acute mixed lymphoid and myeloid leukemia, one as acute lymphoid leukemia, and one as acute undifferentiated leukemia. blasts of all eight cases expressed one or more myeloid differentiation antigens. three also expressed t-lineage-associated antigens; however, none of these had rearrangement of the t-cell receptor beta, gamma, or delta genes. four of six cases tested were tdt positive. all eight patients with trisomy 13 were treated with intensive induction chemotherapy; only three entered a short-lived complete remission. survival of patients with trisomy 13 ranged from 0.5 to 14.7 months, and was significantly shorter than that of the remaining patients (median 9.5 v 16.2 months, p = .007). we conclude that trisomy 13 is a rare, recurring clonal chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia associated with a poor prognosis. malignant transformation of an immature hematopoietic precursor cell is suggested by the expression of antigens characteristic of both the myeloid and lymphoid lineage, the high incidence of tdt positivity, and the morphologic heterogeneity in these leukemias.
correlation dimension of heartbeat intervals is reduced in conscious pigs by myocardial ischemia. a reduced standard deviation of rr intervals (sdrr) predicts increased mortality in groups of survivors of myocardial infarction. like sdrr, the correlation dimension (d2) describes variation within a sampled time series, but uniquely it reveals 1) the epoch's geometric structure and 2) the degrees of freedom of the generator. these unique features may be more sensitive predictors of mortality than sdrr. we developed a new algorithm for estimating d2 (i.e., the "point-d2"), tested it with known data, and found that it had greater accuracy for finite data than other published algorithms. analysis of rr intervals from eight conscious pigs undergoing acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery revealed a drop in the point-d2 from a control mean and standard deviation of 2.50 +/- 0.81 to 1.58 +/- 0.64 during the first minute of ischemia (p less than 0.01) and to 1.07 +/- 0.18 during the last minute preceding ventricular fibrillation (p less than 0.01). partial occlusions (50-90% reduction of coronary blood flow) evoked point-d2 reductions only 25-30% of control (p less than 0.01). the point-d2 means were correlated between pigs with the magnitude of the respiratory sinus arrhythmia (p less than 0.01), but during ischemia this correlation was replaced by one between the standard deviation of the point-d2s and sdrrs. because the simultaneous reduction in the mean point-d2 and its standard deviation to 1.07 +/- 0.18 occurred in every case, was unique to the few minutes preceding ventricular fibrillation, and never reached these low values during other conditions in which it was reduced, we conclude that the point-d2 may be an accurate prospective predictor of mortality within the individual subject.
similar time course of st depression during and after exercise in patients with coronary artery disease and syndrome x. to assess whether the time course of st segment depression differs in patients with coronary artery disease and patients with angina and normal coronary arteries, the exercise tests of 54 patients with documented coronary artery disease and 25 patients with syndrome x (angina, positive exercise test, no evidence of coronary artery spasm, and normal coronary arteries) were compared. all tests were performed with therapy withheld, using the modified bruce protocol. in each test, time, heart rate and blood pressure were measured at the onset and at 1 mm of st segment depression, and at peak exercise. recovery (return of the st segment to baseline +/- 0.2 mm) time was also assessed. peak st segment depression was similar in coronary artery disease and syndrome x patients (1.5 +/- 0.3 versus 1.6 +/- 0.4 mm). in 42 coronary artery disease patients, st segment depression developed early (less than or equal to 6 minutes) during exercise; this was associated with a short recovery (less than or equal to 3 minutes) in 17 (40%) and with a long recovery (greater than 3 minutes) in 25 (60%) patients. in 17 patients with syndrome x, st segment depression developed early; it was associated with a short recovery in six (35%) and with a long recovery in 11 (65%) patients. late (greater than 6 minutes) onset of st segment depression was observed in 12 coronary artery disease patients; of these, eight (67%) had a short recovery and 4 (33%) had a long recovery. late onset of st segment depression occurred in eight patients with syndrome x; six (75%) had a short recovery and two (25%) had a long recovery.
otolaryngologic management of patients with subdural empyema. from 1979 to 1988, 17 patients presented to duke university medical center for treatment of subdural empyema. empyemas were caused by sinusitis in 53% of the patients and by otitis media in 12%. none of those with otologic causes required mastoid drainage, while all patients with sinus infections required sinus drainage. external frontoethmoidectomies were associated with a lower incidence of frontoethmoid re-exploration (p = 0.048), and antrostomies with a lower incidence of maxillary re-exploration (p = 0.111), than were more limited drainage procedures. sinus drainage performed simultaneously with neurosurgical drainage reduced the incidence of sinus re-exploration (p = 0.167), neurosurgical reexploration (p = 0.048), and length of hospitalization (p = 0.020).
spirochetal infection of the central nervous system. four spirochetal diseases frequently involve the central nervous system: syphilis, leptospirosis, relapsing fever, and lyme borreliosis. in particular, syphilis and lyme borreliosis are increasing problems. during the spirochetemic phase there is seeding of the nervous system. after a quiescent latent period, there may be late disease flareups producing a variety of neurologic syndromes. cerebrospinal fluid examination is very helpful in these infections.
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping. case report. intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection. a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids.
bacterial meningitis in neonates and children. a high index of suspicion of meningitis is needed when evaluating neonates and young infants because clinical findings can be minimal and are often subtle and nonspecific. analysis of the csf constitutes the most effective method to document meningeal bacterial infection, although overlap with normal csf values can occur, especially in newborns and very young infants. the introduction of highly active third-generation cephalosporins (ceftriaxone, cefotaxime) and their safety and efficacy in treating a broad array of bacterial pathogens that cause meningitis in all age groups has simplified selection of initial antibiotic therapy. in neonates, however, conventional antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and an aminoglycoside is appropriate because of its proven record of safety and efficacy, and because routine use of cephalosporins in the hospital nursery could lead to selection of resistant strains among gram-negative enteric bacilli. despite the availability of modern intensive care management of infants and children with bacterial meningitis and the advent of potent antibiotics, case fatality rates and morbidity remain high. because of this, recent research has focused on the complex interaction between bacteria and the host and on means to attenuate the meningeal inflammatory response. the clinical benefits demonstrated recently with the use of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis underscore the importance of anti-inflammatory therapy to reduce audiologic and neurologic sequelae. future studies of new methods to modulate meningeal inflammation such as the use of monoclonal antibodies directed against cytokines or of agents that interfere with leukocyte-endothelial interactions are indicated. the implication of routine h. influenzae type b immunization in young infants with the conjugated vaccines and optimal intrapartum prophylaxis against group b streptococcal disease in newborns will have an important impact on the incidence of meningitis in infants and children.
parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response in experimental acute pancreatitis. to determine changes in parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response caused by acute pancreatitis before the development of systemic toxic conditions, experimental acute pancreatitis was induced in rats with a choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet. after 7 days, the rats were weighed and bled, and one kidney was assayed for 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity. several manifestations of pancreatitis were observed in rats given the diet: weight loss (from 29.6 to 26.3 g vs that for control rats, from 29 to 52.8 g) and lower dietary intake (15.5 vs 47 g per rat per 7 days). serum amylase levels fell from 1794 to 350 u/l in rats given the choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet compared with levels of 1800 to 2100 u/l in control rats. the pancreases of rats given the choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet showed degeneration, necrosis, and hemorrhaging. serum levels of calcium, phosphorus, chloride, and parathyroid hormone did not change significantly throughout the experiment. renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity was higher than in control rats (8.9 +/- 0.8 vs 7.6 +/- 0.6 fmol/mg of kidney per minute). acute pancreatitis in this experimental animal model does not alter serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone or reduce target organ responsiveness to the hormone.
detection of htlv-i proviral sequences in cd30-positive large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphomas. to investigate the possibility that cutaneous t-cell lymphomas of large cell type may be associated with human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i infection in nonendemic regions, tissue samples from six cases of large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma and four cases of small cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma were screened for the presence of integrated proviral human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i dna. combined use of southern blot hybridization and enzymatic dna amplification revealed human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i-specific sequences in all cases of large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma and in none of the cases of small cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma. these results suggest that in nonendemic areas, a significant proportion of large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma cases are associated with human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i.
opioids in cerebrospinal fluid in hypotensive newborn pigs. this study was designed to determine if opioids were detectable in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and if these concentrations were altered by hemorrhagic hypotension. this study was further designed to determine the effects of topically administered opioids on pial arteriolar diameter during normotension and hypotension. closed cranial windows were used to determine pial arteriolar diameter. periarachnoid cortical and cisterna magna csf was collected from piglets during normotension and hypotension (systemic arterial pressure decreased from 63 +/- 1 to 33 +/- 1 mm hg). opioid profiles were assessed qualitatively by radioreceptor assay, and individual opioids were measured quantitatively by radioimmunoassay. periarachnoid cortical and cisterna magna csf methionine enkephalin-, leucine enkephalin-, dynorphin-, and beta-endorphin-like receptor active values all were increased by hypotension. when quantified by radioimmunoassay, periarachnoid cortical csf values for methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were 1,167 +/- 58 and 2,975 +/- 139 pg/ml for normotension and hypotension, respectively. periarachnoid cortical csf radioimmunoassay values for dynorphin-like immunoreactivity were 15 +/- 2 and 28 +/- 2 pg/ml for normotension and hypotension, respectively. when applied topically to the cortical surface, synthetic methionine enkephalin increased pial arteriolar diameter (134 +/- 4, 158 +/- 4, and 163 +/- 4 microns for control, 574 pg/ml [10(-10) m], and 5,740 pg/ml [10(-9) m], respectively). similarly, topical synthetic leucine enkephalin and dynorphin elicited pial arteriolar dilation. however, beta-endorphin produced arteriolar constriction. hypotension attenuated methionine and leucine enkephalin-induced dilation and reversed dynorphin-induced dilation to concentration-dependent constriction. beta-endorphin-induced constriction was not changed by hypotension. therefore, opioids could contribute to the control of the cerebral circulation during hypotension.
response to chemotherapy does not predict survival after resection of sarcomatous pulmonary metastases. between 1979 and 1988, 26 patients with pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas were treated with adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride), cytoxan (cyclophosphamide), and dtic before metastasectomy. thirty-eight thoracotomies were performed with postoperative complications in 5 patients (5/38, 13.2%) and one postoperative death (1/38, 2.6%). two patients had benign lesions at thoracotomy and were excluded from further survival analysis. the median survival of the remaining 24 patients after thoracotomy was 18.5 +/- 5.9 months, and the actuarial 5-year survival was 22%. five patients (5/24, 21%) achieved a clinically complete response with preoperative chemotherapy, but all had recurrence in the lung and underwent resection of pulmonary metastases. seven patients (7/24, 29%) achieved a partial response and had residual disease resected at thoracotomy. twelve patients (12/24, 50%) showed either no change or disease progression while receiving chemotherapy and were referred for resection. postthoracotomy disease-free survival and postthoracotomy overall survival did not differ significantly between the three groups. one patient in the group showing no change or progression of disease while receiving chemotherapy is alive without recurrence 57 months after initial pulmonary metastasectomy. chemotherapy can be used for the initial treatment of pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas. however, survival after resection of pulmonary metastases cannot be accurately predicted based on the clinical response to preoperative chemotherapy.
a palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax, head and neck: bazex's syndrome and tripe palm. an unusual, persistent, corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy. this combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities: bazex's syndrome and tripe palm. this paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor, the site of metastatic disease, and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor. in our patient, a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails. recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor. the characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report.
left atrial to femoral arterial bypass using the biomedicus pump for operations of the thoracic aorta. left atrial to left femoral arterial bypass is an approach to operations of the thoracic aorta dating back to the late 1950s. since that time, various modifications of the basic bypass circuit have evolved. in addition, temporary bypass shunts have also been described in a variety of positions. the goals of bypass of the thoracic aorta regardless of the technique include prevention of distal hypoperfusion, which can lead to paraplegia, limb loss, multiple organ failure, and sometimes death. recently, there have been reports of the use of the biomedicus centrifugal pump in bypass circuits of the thoracic aorta. our series, as well as the success of others, using this variation of a traditional bypass circuit of the thoracic aorta, establishes the biopump's capability of minimizing inherent complications in the bypass circuit.
effect of intracoronary serotonin on coronary vessels in patients with stable angina and patients with variant angina background. serotonin, a major product of platelet activation, has potent vasoactive effects in animal models, but its role in human coronary artery disease remains largely speculative. methods. using quantitative coronary angiography, we compared the effects of the intracoronary infusion of graded concentrations of serotonin (10(-7) to 10(-4) mol per liter) on coronary vessels in two groups of patients with different clinical presentations of coronary disease (nine with stable angina and five with variant angina), with the effects in a control group of eight subjects with normal vessels on angiography. results. normal coronary vessels had a biphasic response to intracoronary serotonin: dilation at concentrations up to 10(-5) mol per liter, but constriction at 10(-4) mol per liter. vessels in patients with stable angina constricted at all concentrations, with mean (+/- sem) maximal decreases in diameter of 23.9 +/- 3.6, 33.1 +/- 3.9, and 41.7 +/- 3.1 percent from base line in proximal, middle, and distal segments at a serotonin concentration of 10(-4) mol per liter. smooth segments constricted more than irregular segments (42.0 +/- 4.6 vs. 21.1 +/- 1.6 percent). four patients with stable angina had a marked reduction in collateral filling. all the patients with stable angina had angina during the intracoronary infusion of serotonin, and electrocardiographic changes were noted in six. all the patients with variant angina had angina, electrocardiographic changes, and localized occlusive epicardial coronary-artery spasm at concentrations of 10(-6) (n = 2) or 10(-5) (n = 3) mol per liter. conclusions. patients with stable coronary disease do not have the normal vasodilator response to intracoronary serotonin, but rather have progressive constriction, which is particularly intense in small distal and collateral vessels. patients with variant angina have occlusive coronary-artery spasm at a dose that dilates normal vessels and causes only slight constriction in vessels from patients with stable angina. these findings suggest that serotonin, released after the intracoronary activation of platelets, may contribute to or cause myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease.
evaluation of the results of oesophagectomy for oesophageal cancer. the long-term results of standard techniques of oesophagectomy were examined in 127 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus. a near-total oesophagectomy with a cervical anastomosis was performed in 93 patients and an oesophagogastrectomy with an intrathoracic anastomosis was carried out in 34 patients. one hundred and eight patients had a curative oesophagectomy and 19 patients had a palliative resection. eight patients received radiotherapy to the tumour bed. there were 15 deaths in hospital and the overall 5-year survival rate including perioperative deaths was 13.2 per cent. survival was adversely affected by incomplete excision of macroscopic tumour (p less than 0.001), positive regional lymph nodes (p less than 0.05) and distant lymphatic metastases (p less than 0.02). the 5-year survival rate of patients with tumour invasion beyond the oesophageal wall (t3) and negative nodes was 20 per cent. postoperative irradiation had no effect on the survival of patients with gross residual tumour. complete clearance of microscopic tumour was achieved in 50 per cent of patients with t3 tumours and this group did not benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy. survival in patients undergoing curative oesophagectomy with residual microscopic tumour, however, was significantly improved by irradiation of the tumour bed (p less than 0.01). these results suggest that the survival of patients can be increased significantly by the excision of all gross tumour and by identification of those who will benefit from local radiotherapy.
metabolic activity in the areas of new fill-in after thallium-201 reinjection: comparison with positron emission tomography using fluorine-18-deoxyglucose. reinjection of thallium-201 after recording the 3-hr delayed scan often demonstrates improvement in areas of persistent abnormalities. to determine the metabolic activity of these areas, the changes seen on stress/redistribution/reinjection thallium spect were compared with pet using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) in 18 patients with coronary artery disease. of 48 segments showing no redistribution on the delayed scan, the reinjection scan identified new fill-in in 20 segments (42%), all of which demonstrated fdg uptake. in contrast, only 7 of the 28 segments (25%) showing no fill-in after reinjection were pet viable (p less than 0.01). eleven patients had coronary bypass graft surgery after the radionuclide study. the majority of the segments showing redistribution (87%) and new fill-in after reinjection (65%) improved in wall motion, whereas only eight segments (25%) without new fill-in improved after surgery. of those without new fill-in, two segments showing pet ischemia improved in wall motion, whereas the remaining six segments showing pet scar did not improve after surgery. thus, the segments showing new fill-in after reinjection are pet viable myocardium. however, reinjection thallium imaging still underestimates the extent of tissue viability compared to pet imaging.
intradural chordoma of the tentorium cerebelli. case report. a rare case of intradural chordoma is described. the literature contains seven examples of intradural extraosseous chordoma, all reported in a ventral location. this is the first reported case of a primary intradural chordoma distant from the clivus and involving both the supra- and infratentorial compartments.
effects of dipyridamole and aminophylline on hemodynamics, regional myocardial blood flow and thallium-201 washout in the setting of a critical coronary stenosis. experiments were performed to characterize the interaction of intravenous dipyridamole and aminophylline on thallium-201 transport kinetics, regional myocardial blood flow and systemic hemodynamics in the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis. in 12 dogs with a critical left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis, arterial pressure decreased from a mean value (+/- sem) of 107 +/- 6 to 94 +/- 3 mm hg (p less than 0.05) and distal left anterior descending artery pressure decreased from 70 +/- 7 to 55 +/- 4 mm hg (p less than 0.05) after intravenous administration of dipyridamole (0.25 mg/kg body weight). in the left anterior descending perfusion zone, the endocardial/epicardial flow ratio decreased from 0.70 to 0.36 and the intrinsic thallium washout rate was significantly prolonged. intravenous aminophylline (5 mg/kg) reversed the dipyridamole-induced systemic hypotension and transmural coronary steal and restored the thallium washout rate to baseline values. in six other dogs, aminophylline alone resulted in no alterations in systemic and coronary hemodynamics or regional myocardial blood flow. as expected, dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and coronary steal were prevented by aminophylline pretreatment. these data show that in a canine model of partial coronary stenosis, systemic hypotension, adverse regional flow effects (coronary steal) and prolonged thallium-201 washout consequent to intravenously administered dipyridamole are promptly reversed by intravenous aminophylline administration. aminophylline alone had no significant hemodynamic and coronary flow effects. this study provides further insight into the altered thallium kinetics occurring as a consequence of dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and suggests that the prompt reversal of symptoms and signs of ischemia with aminophylline in patients receiving intravenous dipyridamole for clinical imaging studies probably reflects the reversal of transmural coronary steal.
chromosomal abnormalities in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia. clonal chromosome abnormalities are found in more than half the patients with hematologic malignancies. karyotype is an independent prognostic factor in these patients. cytogenetic findings correlate significantly with morphologic, immunologic, and clinical features as well as response to treatment, remission duration, and survival. the number of different cytogenetic abnormalities is enormous; however, many cytogenetic findings frequently occur in a given disease (e.g., abnormalities of 5 or 7 in 75% to 90% of patients with therapy-related aml). some abnormalities are found only in myeloid malignancies, for example, the t(8;21)(q22;q22) and rearrangements of chromosome 16q22, both of which have a good prognosis. other abnormalities usually are found in both myeloid and lymphoid malignancies, for example, the t(4;11)(q21;q23) and t(9;22)(q34;q11), both of which have a poor prognosis. the human gene mapping conferences have compiled much cytogenetic data and produced several interesting correlations in myeloid malignancies: rearrangements of 3q21-26 with myeloid proliferations associated with environmental exposure (similar to abnormalities of 5q, 7q, 12p, and 17q), aberrations of 12p, 11q13 and 11q23 with both myeloid and lymphoid disorders, and the lack of myeloid involvement and abnormalities of chromosomes 14 and 18. in conclusion, cytogenetic analysis of neoplastic cells at diagnosis for patients with mds, aml, and saml is required for appropriate diagnosis and treatment. the use of chromosome abnormalities to separate patients into high- and low-risk groups eventually may allow us to be more effective in selecting curative therapy.
chest pain in teenagers. when is it significant? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause. onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain. the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac, musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, and respiratory disorders. routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient's unspoken fear of serious illness. most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness, and symptoms usually resolve without therapy. an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up.
aqueductal (pencil) glioma presenting as neurogenic pulmonary edema: a case report. a case of neurogenic pulmonary edema due to hydrocephalus, without initial neurological deficit, is described. computed tomography demonstrated a ring enhancing lesion in the tectum of the mesencephalon obstructing the aqueduct of sylvius. the lesion, on autopsy, was a rare mesencephalic glioma described in the literature as a "pencil glioma" of the aqueduct.
selective prolongation of qrs late potentials by sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs: relation to slowing of ventricular tachycardia. electrophysiologic study versus electrocardiographic monitoring trial (esvem) investigators. sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs have preferential effects on diseased, slowly conducting myocardium, and slowing of tachycardia caused by these drugs may result primarily from further prolongation of conduction time in slowly conducting tissue. in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia, late potentials detected by signal-averaged electrocardiography (ecg) are thought to arise from slowly conducting ventricular myocardium. this study tested the hypothesis that sodium channel blocking drugs selectively prolong the late potential, or terminal low amplitude signal, portion of the signal-averaged qrs complex and that prolongation of the late potential would correlate with slowing of ventricular tachycardia. fifty-six drug trials in 32 patients with spontaneous and inducible ventricular arrhythmias were studied. prolongation of the late potential (11 +/- 15 ms) was significantly greater than prolongation of the initial portion of the qrs complex (4 +/- 9 ms) (p = 0.01). selective prolongation of the late potential by drugs resulted in significantly greater qrs prolongation detectable by signal-averaged ecg than by standard ecg (p less than 0.0001). in 40 trials in which ventricular tachycardia remained inducible during drug therapy, the increase in induced tachycardia cycle length correlated strongly with the increase in late potential duration (p = 0.005) but not with change in the initial portion of the qrs complex. these data suggest that in patients with ventricular tachycardia, sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs have preferential effects on slowly conducting tissue and that drug effect on slowly conducting tissue contributes to prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length.
use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of cortical blindness in pregnancy. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) may be helpful in the assessment of eclampsia and preeclampsia with central nervous system symptomatology such as cortical blindness. we describe a rare case of complete binocular blindness postpartum with no other neurologic deficits, in which mri abnormalities were undetected on computed tomography. the better soft-tissue discrimination of mri may visualize important but subtle lesions which ultimately may help to explain the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism in such cases.
primary adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder. a clinicopathologic analysis of 72 cases. adenocarcinomas account for approximately 2% of primary epithelial malignancies of the urinary bladder. the clinicopathologic features of 72 cases treated at one institution are reported; 22 cases were evaluated immunohistochemically. twenty-four tumors were urachal and 48 nonurachal. the cases were analyzed according to their stage at presentation, histologic type, and mucin staining; they were tested immunohistochemically to determine their reaction to carcinoembryonic antigen, leu-m1, prostate-specific antigen, and prostatic acid phosphatase. tumor stage was a highly significant predictor of outcome (p = 0.001). nonurachal tumors tended to have a worse outcome than urachal, but the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.07). histologic type was not a significant predictor of outcome (p = 0.10). for adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder, stage was the most significant predictive factor; separating urachal from nonurachal tumors was important, but mucin histochemistry and immunohistochemistry did not help in this distinction. on occasion, a few tumors may react with some polyclonal antibodies to prostate-specific antigen; thus these results must be interpreted with caution. in these instances, the possibility of using highly sensitive and specific monoclonal antibodies such as the one employed in this study should be considered.
diagnosis and evaluation of renovascular hypertension. indications for therapy. renovascular hypertension is caused by two distinct conditions with different causes, fibromuscular dysplasia and atheroma. diagnosis of the former is both simpler and more rewarding, whereas atheromatous lesions of the renal artery may be secondary to essential hypertension. it is therefore important to establish existence of functional renal ischemia as well as an anatomical lesion. universal screening of all hypertensive patients is not recommended because of the relatively low prevalence of the disease and insufficient accuracy of available screening tests. when renovascular hypertension is clinically suspected, an oral captopril test is the most reliable office screening test. after this, digital subtraction angiography with renal vein renins or captopril renography are appropriate steps. however, the latter procedure, while promising, requires further evaluation. duplex scanning of the renal arteries also comes into this category. arteriography is done last, so that if renal ischemia is indicated, angioplasty can be attempted at the same time as arteriography.
concomitant neurocysticercosis and brucellosis. a young mexican woman had headache and left arm weakness develop shortly after immigrating to the united states. a solitary cerebral cysticercus was found at surgery, but, instead of the expected finding of clear fluid, the cyst contained pus from which brucella melitensis was cultured. although the patient had no signs or symptoms suggestive of brucellosis, agglutination studies revealed igm and igg antibodies consistent with active brucellosis. clinicians should be alert to the possibility of multiple infections in immigrants from countries where parasites and bacteria that are uncommon in the united states are endemic.
influence of untreated chronic plastic iridocyclitis on intraocular pressure in leprosy patients. the intraocular pressures of a total of 286 eyes of patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous leprosy who never had regular ophthalmological care or local eye treatment were measured. the patients were categorised according to the type of leprosy they had, and the eyes were categorised as without or with chronic plastic iridocyclitis. in patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous types of leprosy the intraocular pressure was significantly lower in eyes with chronic plastic iridocylitis 10.1 (3.6) mmhg than in both unaffected eyes 11.0 (3.2) mmhg and control eyes 13.5 (2.5) mmhg. it has been shown that chronic plastic iridocyclitis which remains untreated for years results in a lower intraocular pressure than normal.
prognostic implications of dna histogram, dna content, and histologic changes of regional lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer. forty-six cases of resected lung cancer, including 20 cases at stages i and ii and 26 cases at stage iii (n2), were subdivided into two groups: a good prognosis group with a longer survival period and a poor prognosis group in which the patients died earlier of the cancer. from paraffin-embedded lymph node tissues of these patients, the authors examined dna histogram pattern and dna content, using flow cytometry, and histologic hyperplasia of germinal center and paracortical area; they also evaluated their correlation with the prognosis. in the good prognosis group at stages i and ii, paracortical hyperplasia (ph) of the lymph nodes was observed significantly more frequently. in the good prognosis group at stage iii, the incidence of ph, g2m phase in the dna histograms, and dna content were all significantly higher. dna content was positively correlated with the grade of ph.
expression of major histocompatibility complex class ii antigens and interleukin-1 by epithelial cells of warthin's tumor. the immunoreactivity for class ii antigens of the major histocompatibility complex and interleukin-1 (il-1) in warthin's tumor (wt) cells was studied. in addition to macrophages, dendritic cells, and capillary endothelia, the luminal tumor cells and some keratinocytes in the metaplastic squamous foci exhibited immunoreactivity for both class ii antigens and il-1. the distribution of the class ii antigens in the luminal tumor cells was limited to their basolateral membrane. these data, together with previous findings, strongly suggest that the luminal tumor cells of wt introduce the luminal antigen to the underlying lymphoid tissue and, thus, act as an antigen-presenting cell.
determinants and significance of diltiazem plasma concentrations after acute myocardial infarction. the multicenter diltiazem postinfarction trial research group. a total of 1,975 plasma diltiazem concentrations were obtained from 1,067 patients enrolled in a multicenter secondary intervention study of diltiazem after acute myocardial infarction. to evaluate the determinants and significance of diltiazem concentrations in this patient population, we related drug concentrations to a variety of clinical variables recorded on the case history forms. multiple linear regression analysis showed that (1) time from the last drug dose, (2) drug dose taken, (3) patient height (an index of lean body weight), and (4) patient age were important determinants of plasma concentration. for an equivalent dose, plasma diltiazem concentrations in a 75-year-old patient were about double those of a 25-year-old patient. total weight and drug dose prescribed did not significantly affect plasma concentrations. whereas drug concentrations were higher (p = 0.01) among patients with left-sided heart failure, they were not altered by renal dysfunction, hepatic disease or beta blockers. diltiazem concentrations were a significant determinant of diastolic arterial pressure (p less than 10(-9), but neither systolic pressure nor heart rate were significantly related to diltiazem concentration. the overall incidence of adverse experiences was not related to drug concentrations, but the occurrence of second- and third-degree atrioventricular block in the coronary care unit and the need for a temporary pacemaker were substantially higher among patients with a drug concentration greater than 150 ng/ml (7.4 and 1.9%, respectively) than among patients with lower concentrations (2.6% for atrioventricular block, 0.3% for pacemaker; p = 0.02 for each). the risk of atrioventricular block was particularly increased by high diltiazem concentrations in the face of acute inferior infarction. these results suggest that diltiazem's pharmacologic and clinical effects in a large population are concentration-related, and that the consideration of patient size, age, and left ventricular function in selecting a diltiazem dose may allow for effective drug therapy with a reduced likelihood of adverse effects.
limitation of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using iodized oil for small hepatocellular carcinoma. a study in resected cases. the radiologic and histologic findings are presented of the resection of 14 small hepatocellular carcinomas (hcc), less than 2 cm in maximum diameter, after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (tce) using iodized oil. the effect of tce on small hcc depended on the morphologic type of the tumors. when no extracapsular invasion of tumor cells occurred, tce was extremely effective against encapsulated tumors. however, in nine of the 14 resected specimens, viable tumor cells remained in or around the tumor. the authors suggest that small hcc are not always curable with tce alone and that a multi-disciplinary approach is necessary for patients with small hcc.
bronchiolar morphology after systemic arterial interruption. to assess ischemic lesions as a factor in obliterative bronchiolitis after lung transplantation, the authors severed the left bronchial arteries of 15 dogs, together with the left stem bronchus, the latter being immediately reanostomosed. they examined the bronchioles at weekly interfals up to three and a half months. on the week chosen each dog was anesthetized, totally heparinized, and exsanguino-perfused with saline. just after heart arrest, the thoracic aorta was injected with a barium solution until this white medium appeared in the bronchial arteries. the heart-lung blocs were excised en bloc, submitted to soft-tissue x ray, fixed, and then sliced to 1 cm. corresponding right and left 5-mm-thick samples of these slices were prepared for contact microradiography followed by histologic 5-to-20-micron-thick, stained, correlated specimens. for two weeks the left bronchial arteries remained empty, but there was no necrosis or edema. between two and four weeks barium solution appeared in the bronchial arteries, and the bronchiolar epithelium had become multistratified. later the left bronchiangiogram became similar to the right, but there were more folds of the mucosa and a little submucosal fibrosis. these studies provide proof that no significant ischemic lesions occurred during repermeation of the bronchiolar vascular bed. ischemia, if existent, is not a significant factor in obliterative bronchiolitis.
laparoscopic ventrosuspensions. a review of 72 cases. laparoscopic ventrosuspension is simple to perform after diagnostic laparoscopy. serious postoperative complication is unlikely. however, patient follow-up over 6 months has not confirmed the usefulness of laparoscopic ventrosuspension in the management of deep dyspareunia or pelvic pain in association with a retroverted uterus. the success rate of laparoscopic ventrosuspension at 6 months varies from 18.6% to 46.5%. the prior use of a hodge pessary does not predict the success of laparoscopic ventrosuspension.
infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm in a 25-month-old child. infective endocarditis in young children is uncommon, especially where there is no underlying structural heart disease. while septic embolization in adults occurs in up to 43% of the cases of endocarditis, there is little data on systemic embolization in cases of children. we present an unusual case of a 25-month-old child with infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm treated by mitral valve replacement and aortoiliac reconstruction.
retinal arterial macroaneurysms: risk factors and natural history. a case control study was conducted to identify the systemic and ocular risk factors for retinal arterial macroaneurysms. forty-three patients with 52 photographically confirmed macroaneurysms were located. forty-three age-matched, race-matched concurrent control patients were also identified. the patients with macroaneurysms had decreased visual acuity (p less than 0.0001) and a higher prevalence of hypertension (p = 0.037), female sex (p = 0.099), and retinal vein occlusions (p = 0.055) than controls. in patients with both a macroaneurysm and venous occlusion there was a 12.0 times higher prevalence of macroaneurysms in the area of retina drained by the occluded vein (p less than 0.05). common findings associated with macroaneurysms included retinal haemorrhage (81% of patients), retinal exudate (70%), vitreous haemorrhage (30%), macular involvement (30%), and distal arteriolar narrowing (26%). arteriolar occlusion occurred spontaneously (8%) or after laser photocoagulation (16%).
pulse rate, coronary heart disease, and death: the nhanes i epidemiologic follow-up study. to determine whether associations of elevated resting pulse rate with chd incidence or death in white men are independent of other risk factors and whether such associations exist for women and blacks, data were examined from the nhanes i epidemiologic follow-up study. over a follow-up period of 6 to 13 years, elevated rr for chd incidence were found for older white men with baseline pulse greater than 84 beats/min compared with less than 74 beats/min after controlling multiple risk factors (rr = 1.37, 95% cl 1.02, 1.84). risks of death from all causes, cardiovascular diseases, and noncardiovascular diseases were also elevated for white men with elevated pulse rate independent of other risk factors. chd incidence was increased in white women with elevated pulse rate. risks of death from all causes, cardiovascular diseases, and noncardiovascular diseases, were also elevated for white men with elevated pulse rate independent of other risk factors. chd incidence was increased in white women with elevated pulse rate. risk of death from all causes and cardiovascular diseases was elevated in black men and women with elevated pulse rate. risk of death from noncardiovascular disease was elevated in black men with elevated pulse rate. the association with cardiovascular death was particularly striking in black women, even after adjusting for baseline risk factors (rr 3.03, 95% cl 1.46, 6.28). further studies are needed to assess associations of pulse rate with chd in blacks and to elucidate mechanisms in all groups.
achieving ph control in the critically ill patient: the role of continuous infusion of h2-receptor antagonists. stress-related gastric mucosal damage is a common occurrence in intensive care unit (icu) patients. because of the significant morbidity and mortality associated with this mucosal damage, many icu patients routinely receive prophylactic therapy, usually with histamine h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras). gastric acid secretion occurs in a circadian pattern, with late afternoon and evening surges. h2ras by continuous infusion may control this uneven pattern of secretion more effectively than h2ras given by bolus injection. more studies are needed to identify the target icu population for prophylactic treatment.
managing prostatitis in the elderly. bacterial prostatitis is primarily a disease of elderly men, and it is the most common urinary tract infection seen in this age group. urosepsis from prostatitis or prostatic abscess occurs less frequently than with urological manipulation, but must always be considered in elderly men with prostatitis. this article focuses on the diagnosis and antibiotic treatment of bacterial prostatitis in the elderly.
esthesioneuroblastoma with intracranial extension. the authors present five cases of olfactory neuroblastoma with intracranial extension operated on in the department of neurosurgery in collaboration with otorhinolaryngologists. this tumor is most frequently reported as growing inside the nasal cavities, and it can extend to the paranasal sinuses. cases presenting initially as intracranial tumors have been infrequently reported. at present, histological diagnosis of this tumor is aided by the use of electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry. total resection combined with radiation therapy remains the most satisfactory treatment.
assay of serum cardiac myosin heavy chain fragments in patients with acute myocardial infarction: determination of infarct size and long-term follow-up. to evaluate the correlation between myosin heavy chain release and the necrosis mass, serum levels of myosin heavy chain fragments were determined serially in 55 patients with acute myocardial infarction. eight of these patients were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents: the others were not treated. the same myosin titration was applied to the sera of 25 dogs with an experimental myocardial infarction. six of the dogs were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents. the time courses of the myosin concentrations are typical and monophasic for all patients with a noncomplex myocardial infarction. the values for the kinetic parameters of myosin release are comparable to those previously reported. we have now determined that cumulative myosin release significantly correlates with cumulative creatine kinase (ck), ck-mb, and lactate dehydrogenase release, as well as with thallium-201 distribution, as determined for different patient groups. thrombolytic treatment does not seem to qualitatively upset myosin kinetics. the results obtained in dogs with or without thrombolysis conclusively indicate that myosin release is a quantitative index of the necrosis mass. from a practical point of view, a few serial determinations of serum levels of myosin heavy chains are enough to estimate the necrosed mass in patients with acute myocardial infarction. more generally, serum myosin titration could be useful in detecting any cardiac disturbance involving myocardial injury resulting in membrane leakage of cardiac cells.
vimentin expression appears to be associated with poor prognosis in node-negative ductal nos breast carcinomas. vimentin expression in tumors from 83 node-negative and 112 node-positive patients with infiltrative ductal not otherwise specified (nos) breast carcinomas has been compared with 5-year survival. for node-negative, but not for node-positive patients, there was a significant inverse relation between vimentin expression and survival. five-year survival of node-negative patients with vimentin-positive tumors was significantly worse compared with vimentin-negative tumors (p less than 0.0001). in the node-negative group, only 36% of patients with vimentin-positive tumors but 82% of patients with vimentin-negative tumors survived 5 years. tumors of all eight node-negative patients with ductal nos cancer who died in the first 27 months expressed vimentin. multivariate analysis of the node-negative group showed a strong correlation of vimentin expression and overall survival, but weak and not significant correlation between histologic grade or size and overall survival at 5 years. thus vimentin expression seems to be a strong indicator of poor prognosis in node-negative ductal nos breast carcinomas.
trends in female breast cancer in connecticut and the united states. trends for female breast cancer were examined by age, period and cohort for the years 1950-1984 in u.s. mortality. connecticut mortality and connecticut incidence. birth cohort patterns were evident for all three sets of data. the results confirm a continuing increase in invasive breast cancer by providing evidence of a strong birth cohort pattern, over a time series of 90 years of birth cohorts. this trend appears to be real for the most part because of the cohort patterns and because there is minimal underdetection in data obtained by autopsy and blind biopsy. secondly, when cohort modeling is applied to breast cancer mortality, there is an indication of a modest decline in recent breast cancer mortality (in the face of an apparent long-term increase), which suggests that control of breast cancer mortality may have developed in recent decades, perhaps through earlier detection and improved treatment. finally, in contrast with a prior report, there is little evidence for a clinically important difference in time trend between pre- and postmenopausal breast cancer.
late effects of treatment for wilms' tumor. a report from the national wilms' tumor study group. the national wilms' tumor study (nwts) was initiated in 1969. one of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications. the nwts has therefore incorporated a long term follow-up study (ltfs) within its framework to monitor late effects. the ltfs is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery, and data are collected using specifically designed forms. a total of 787 patients registered on nwts-1 or nwts-2 (1969 to 1979) were eligible, of whom 680 (86%) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and neuropsychologic status, and the presence of benign and malignant tumors. patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported, along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities (32 versus 2), nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation (35 of 57 versus 5 of 53, respectively). the difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive adriamycin (adria laboratories, columbus, oh) (2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk) had borderline statistical significance (p = 0.06). no excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine. when considering patients with disease of all stages, all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation (rt patients); benign tumors were also more frequent in rt patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation (41 of 486 or 8% versus 4 of 194 or 2%). continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed, especially for those given adriamycin, because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients.
il-2-pe40 prevents the development of tumors in mice injected with il-2 receptor expressing el4 transfectant tumor cells. a number of different immunotherapeutic reagents are currently being developed to target il-2r for the treatment of leukemia, graft rejection, and certain autoimmune diseases. previously, we have shown that il-2-pe40, a chimeric protein composed of human il-2 linked to the n-terminus of a truncated form of pseudomonas exotoxin (pe), could effectively kill a variety of cell lines in vitro expressing either low, intermediate, or high affinity il-2r. here, we demonstrate that il-2-pe40 can successfully retard or prevent the growth of a lethal ascites tumor or a solid tumor composed of el4j murine thymoma cells transfected with the p55 murine il-2r. the transfected line, el4j-3.4, expresses 1,000 to 3,000 high affinity il-2r. survival extension in the ascites model was achieved by initiating treatment either after 4 to 6 h or within 5 days post-tumor injection in both athymic nude and c57bl/6 mice. similarly, the growth of an aggressive s.c. solid tumor could also be inhibited. extension of survival was not achieved either by using the truncated toxin alone not attached to il-2 or by using an il-2-pe40asp553 mutant lacking a functional toxin. survival extension was not caused by il-2 activated nk or other host effector mechanisms as il-2-pe40 was unable to prevent the receptor-negative el4j parental line from forming a lethal ascites or a solid tumor. thus, il-2-pe40 is a potent, specific cytolytic reagent that may prove useful in the arsenal of anti-il-2r immunotherapeutics.
reliability of death certificate diagnoses. consistency between death certificates and clinical records from 5 general hospitals in kuwait was studied for 470 deaths with the following underlying or associated causes: hypertensive (hyp), ischaemic heart diseases (ihd), cerebrovascular diseases (cvd) and diabetes mellitus (dm). direct causes were not considered since they are of little interest analytically. only deaths with definite or most probable ascertainment were included. one cardiologist, who was provided with the who criteria and relevant documents on death certification, independently reviewed the records. to test the reviewer's bias and the reliability of his judgement, an adjudication process was effected by having one senior cardiologist re-review a random subsample of 140 records. the two reviewers showed good agreement. specific diagnoses criteria for deciding the underlying cause of death in multiple morbid conditions by the reviewer were followed. due to possible reviewer bias, we aimed at measuring the difference between initial certifiers and the reviewer rather than measuring the diagnostic accuracy of initial certifiers in reference to the reviewer. the agreement index kappa showed poor agreement between original and revised certificates. the original certificates under-estimated cvd as an underlying cause of death by 69.2%, dm by 60%, ihd by 33.5% and hyp by 31.8% in our sample. associated causes were also consistently under-estimated by initial certifiers as compared with the reviewer. this bias calls for basing mortality statistics in kuwait on hospital death committees' reports rather than on initial certifier death certificates, use of multiple-causes of death instead of one underlying cause and adequate training of the medical profession on the value and process of death certification.
definitive mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates. mandibular defects following radical cancer surgery continue to provide challenges to head and neck surgeons. twenty-seven patients with advanced oral cancer underwent primary mandibular replacement with metal reconstruction plates without the use of bone. twenty-one patients (78%) had successful reconstruction with primary soft tissue healing. six patients required removal of the plate in the postoperative period. two of these patients had their reconstruction plates replaced as a secondary procedure following soft tissue healing. thus, 23 of 27 patients (85%) had final mandibular reconstruction and were followed for an average of 19 months. functional and cosmetic results were satisfactory. for patients with advanced disease, this technique compares favorably with microvascular transfer in terms of operating time and donor defect. despite problems with plate exposure, the initial and overall success rates of 78% and 85%, respectively, make the use of these plates a reasonable choice for immediate reconstructive needs in patients with difficult tumors.
intracranial hypertension in relation to memory functioning during the first year after severe head injury. the relationship between intracranial hypertension and residual memory deficit after closed head injury was evaluated using the 6-month and 1-year neurobehavioral outcome data obtained by the traumatic coma data bank. intracranial pressure was analyzed using the percentage of time that it exceeded 20 mm hg and the maximum value recorded during the first 72 hours after injury. memory measures included recall of word lists, prose recall, and visual memory for designs that were obtained 6 months (n = 149) and 1 year (n = 132) after injury. intracranial hypertension occurred in more than half of the traumatic coma data bank cohort who met the criteria for the neurobehavioral follow-up study. linear regression analysis disclosed an effect of elevated intracranial pressure on some, but not all, measures of memory at 6 months, whereas the results were negative for the 1-year follow-up examination. we conclude that the elevation of intracranial pressure exerts little if any effect on later memory functioning, and that any effect it does have diminishes over 1 year in survivors of severe head injury.
xenon-enhanced computed tomographic measurement of cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic subdural hematomas. we compared clinical symptoms with extent of brain shift on computed tomographic (ct) scans and quantitative and three-dimensional measurements of cerebral blood flow (cbf) on xenon-enhanced ct scans in 10 patients with chronic subdural hematomas. five patients had only headache and minimal or no brain shift on a ct scan. the other five had hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance in addition to headache and moderate or severe brain shift on a ct scan. the mean hemispheric cbf decreased about 7% in patients with headache and about 35% in patients with hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance. it decreased also on the side without the hematoma. the cbf reduction was always more pronounced in the putamen and thalamus than in the cortex. on the contrary, the cortex cbf was mostly preserved or even elevated in both groups of patients. we speculate that cbf reduction in patients with a chronic subdural hematoma occurs initially in central cerebral areas like the basal ganglia and thalamus, and then extends to the entire hemisphere including the cortex as brain compression and displacement progress. central cerebral area involvement might be more responsible for clinical symptoms than the cortex.
scintigraphic measurement of oropharyngeal transit in man. scintigraphic studies of the oropharyngeal transit of a liquid bolus were performed in 15 healthy controls, 12 patients with symptoms of oral-pharyngeal dysphagia, and 13 patients with neuromuscular disease, who did not have dysphagia. gamma camera imaging of the head, neck, and upper thorax was undertaken, in the lateral projection, during the swallowing of the radiolabeled bolus of water. inspection of summed images permitted the selection of regions of interest (roi) to represent the mouth, pharynx, and upper esophagus. transit times between each roi were calculated and compared. significant prolongation of bolus transit time between the mouth and esophagus was present in both patients with and without dysphagia (0.59 +/- 0.38 sec and 0.33 +/- 0.7 sec; mean +/- sd, respectively) compared with controls (0.26 +/- 0.04 sec p less than 0.001, p less than 0.01, respectively, mann-whitney u test). repeat studies in 25 individuals indicated that the transit measurements were more reproducible between swallows in normal subjects than in patients with symptoms. deglutitive scintigraphy provides a noninvasive technique for the quantitative study of swallowing and its disorders.
refractory hypoglycemia secondary to topical salicylate intoxication. we describe a case of severe refractory hypoglycemia secondary to topical salicylate intoxication. a 72-year-old man with psoriasis and end-stage renal disease was treated with a topical cream containing 10% salicylic acid. the patient presented with encephalopathy and subsequently developed hypoglycemia refractory to infusions of large amounts of glucose. a serum salicylate concentration was elevated at 3.2 mmol/l. emergent hemodialysis was accompanied by rapid lowering of serum salicylate concentration and resolution of refractory hypoglycemia. salicylate is well absorbed across normal and diseased skin. salicylate markedly impairs gluconeogenesis and increases glucose utilization, resulting in hypoglycemia. to our knowledge, this is the first article on hypoglycemia due to the application of topical salicylate.
coronary collateral recruitment: functional significance and relation to rate of vessel closure. studies in animals and humans have demonstrated the anatomic presence and functional significance of coronary collaterals. the extent of collateralization varies among species and among individuals. collateral vessels are usually adequate for preserving resting regional and global ventricular function in the face of coronary obstruction. during stress, however, collateral supply may be inadequate. collateral development is a time-dependent process during both the initial occlusion and following transient reflow and reclosure. therefore when a previously collateralized coronary occlusion is recanalized and then recloses, the extent of the resulting collateral recruitment will depend, at least in part, upon the period of reflow between the two occlusions. the longer the reflow period, the less enhanced will be the collateralization. this is illustrated in the cases presented and has also been demonstrated in animal studies. the exact mechanisms for this recurrent collateral recruitment need further study.
early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy. the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (siadh) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy. it has previously only been described as a late phenomenon. we report an early presentation within the first week. the pathophysiology, clinical features and treatment are discussed.
intrarectal ultrasonography in rectal cancer staging and in the evaluation of pelvic disease. clinical uses of intrarectal ultrasound. accurate preoperative staging of a rectal cancer patient may impact heavily on subsequent management. this study attempts to evaluate the accuracy of intrarectal ultrasonography (irus) in staging rectal cancers compared to clinical and pathologic examination. in addition the accuracy of irus was assessed in a group of patients with uncertain pelvic-perirectal disease after a negative physical examination. in a prospective manner, 52 cancer patients were staged with digital exam and irus. accuracy rates were 48% and 83%, respectively, compared to pathologic evaluation in assessing wall penetration, and irus identified positive lymph nodes in 12 of 17 cases. in patients with pelvic disease, irus corresponded with pathologic diagnosis in 15 of 17 cases and revealed new information in 6 patients. intrarectal ultrasonography appears to be the most accurate imaging technique for staging rectal cancers and demonstrates promise in the evaluation of perirectal-pelvic disease.
significance and treatment of positive margins or seminal vesicle invasion after radical prostatectomy. the periprostatic soft-tissue involvement described in the older urologic literature differs from that now recognized; a much "earlier" pathologic stage c is being identified. apparent microscopic extension of the cancer to the margin of the specimen yields an approximately 25% risk of local recurrence. postoperative radiation apparently is effective in reducing this risk, and if patients are properly selected, such treatment is well tolerated. whether adjuvant radiation affects overall survival is not known. new observations on pathologic extension of the disease need to be refined.
cr leads in cardiac emergencies. a preliminary study. the purpose of this study was to find a set of simplified electrocardiographic (ecg) leads that would be useful in cardiac emergencies. in 27 ambulatory cardiac patients and in 15 patients admitted to the hospital, we found that ecg records obtained with six bipolar cr leads were, in most respects, similar to records obtained previously in the same patients with six v leads. records obtained with two abdominal-upper extremity leads, tested as possible alternatives to limb leads 2 and 3, were quite similar to records obtained with leads 2 and 3 in patients with an inferior wall infarction. records obtained with leads cr7, cr8, and cr9 in a patient with a posterior wall infarction revealed a qs pattern that was not seen in the conventional 12-lead hospital record. in patients with anterolateral and inferior myocardial infarctions and in patients with unstable angina, the diagnostic patterns recorded with 11 bipolar leads described in this report were identical to patterns recorded with 12-lead ecgs. although a larger number of observations, including patients with arrhythmias, would be required to reach a definitive conclusion, our results provide preliminary evidence that cardiac potentials may be adequately analyzed by using only two electrodes, using cr and abdominal leads, in succession. the technique described in this report, in which the reference electrode is attached to the right arm, and the exploring electrode is moved successively over nine preselected chest sites and over the umbilicus, can be completed in less than 3 minutes in a given patient, and provides records that are comparable to those obtained with the conventional 12-lead system.
long-term results of catheter ablation of idiopathic right ventricular tachycardia ten consecutive patients with recurrent episodes of symptomatic, idiopathic, sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt) originating in the right ventricle underwent an attempt at catheter ablation of the ventricular tachycardia. there were seven women and three men, with a mean age of 39 +/- 14 years (+/- sd). none of the patients had any evidence of structural heart disease. the vt had a left bundle branch block configuration and an inferior axis in each patient, and the mean cycle length was 313 +/- 75 msec. based on the methods of induction of the vt and the response of the vt to verapamil, the vt mechanism was presumed to be reentry in six patients, triggered activity in three patients, and catecholamine-sensitive automaticity in one patient. sites for ablation were guided by pace mapping, and an appropriate target site was identified in the right ventricular outflow tract in each patient. from one to three shocks of 100-360 j (mean total, 336 +/- 195 j) were delivered from a defibrillator between the tip of the ablation catheter (cathode) and a patch electrode on the anterior chest (anode). an electrophysiology test 7-9 days after ablation demonstrated that vt was still inducible in only one patient, who was treated with amiodarone. one other patient had a recurrence of vt 3 weeks after ablation and was treated with verapamil. eight of 10 patients were not treated with antiarrhythmic medications and have had no episodes of symptomatic vt during 15-68 months of follow-up (mean follow-up, 33 +/- 18 months). there were no acute or long-term complications.
the use of l-dopa and carbidopa in metastatic malignant melanoma. a combination of l-dopa and carbidopa was given orally to 17 patients with metastatic melanoma. maximum tolerated oral doses were given, up to 4 grams daily. no response was seen in 15 patients evaluable for response. toxicity was considerable, with seven of 17 patients (41%) stopping treatment because of unacceptable gastrointestinal toxicity or postural hypotension. contrary to previous anecdotal reports, there was no evidence that l-dopa/carbidopa treatment resulted in accelerated progression of metastatic melanoma. orally administered l-dopa/carbidopa is ineffective as therapy for advanced melanoma when maximum tolerated doses are used.
benign cystic teratoma manifested as an umbilical hernia. we have reported a case of dermoid tumor manifested as an umbilical hernia. resection led to complete recovery.
management of primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval thrombus. we report our experience with the management of 7 primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval tumor thrombus. included are 3 cases of adrenal cortical carcinoma and 1 each of transitional cell carcinoma, embryonal cell testicular carcinoma, pheochromocytoma and primary small cell carcinoma of the lung with metastases to the kidney. surgical treatment and followup are presented, as well as a review of the literature. an aggressive surgical approach is warranted because prolonged survivals free of disease are possible.
a comparison of induction and maintenance therapy for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in childhood: results of a pediatric oncology group study. two hundred fifty-six children with previously untreated acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) were evaluated on a pediatric oncology group (pog) phase iii randomized trial of both induction and continuation chemotherapies. induction therapy compared vincristine, cytarabine, and dexamethasone (vadx) with daunorubicin, cytarabine, and thioguanine (dat). the complete remission (cr) rate using dat was superior (82% v 61%, p = .02). postremission therapy consisted of either "standard" two-cycle therapy or a more intensive four-cycle regimen given for 2 years. overall, there was no difference in outcome for patients randomized to either continuation regimen. the overall complete continuous remission rate (ccr) for the "best" induction/continuation therapy combination at 2 years was .50 (se = .06), at 3 years was .35 (.04), and at 4 years was .34 (.05). analysis of selected clinical and laboratory parameters demonstrated differences in induction responses favoring dat induction but did not impact eventual disease-free survival. there were two subgroups of patients who responded better to four-cycle continuation therapy. these were patients with french-american-british (fab) m1/m2 (2-year ccr was .20 v .44, p = .01) and patients older than 10 years at diagnosis (.32 v .62, p = .004).
adjunctive use of beta-adrenergic blockers, calcium antagonists and other therapies in coronary thrombolysis. the availability of thrombolytic agents for use in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction is an important step in the management of a common, often debilitating, and potentially lethal disorder. however, despite the proven benefits of coronary thrombolysis, the importance of adjunctive treatment modalities is being increasingly recognized. beta-adrenergic blockers, calcium antagonists, nitrates, magnesium, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors each exert favorable cardiovascular properties that may offer additional benefits. clinical trials combining thrombolytic and adjunctive pharmacologic agents offer hope for further advances in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction.
angiographic contrast media interference with laser-induced fluorescence excitation and detection in atherosclerotic human coronary arteries. laser-induced fluorescence has been used in conjunction with angiography for laser angioplasty guidance. the effect of radiopaque contrast media on the excitation and detection of arterial fluorescence has not been previously reported. accordingly, fluorescence emission spectra from human coronary artery necropsy specimens (n = 7) during excitation with pulsed excimer laser excitation (308 nm) was examined before and after the addition of three different contrast media, sodium and meglumine diatrizoate, sodium and meglumine ioxaglate, and iopamidol. a decrease in overall fluorescence intensity was observed at all wavelengths for each contrast agent examined. the decrease in intensity of fluorescence emission was more marked at wavelengths less than 410 nm than at wavelengths above 425 nm. similar effects were observed for contrast media diluted with whole blood. absorption spectra for all three contrast media demonstrated absorption in the ultraviolet centered around 240 nm. we conclude that preferential absorption in the ultraviolet range by contrast media interferes with the excitation and detection of laser-induced fluorescence; use of visible light excitation may obviate interference with laser-induced fluorescence analysis of plaque.
the role of sphincteroplasty for fecal incontinence reevaluated: a prospective physiologic and functional review. sixteen female patients (mean age 54.1 years; range 34-74 years) with a 9.8-year (range 1-25 years) history of incontinence to solid stool underwent overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication without fecal diversion. all patients were prospectively evaluated with preoperative anorectal manometry, electromyography, and pudendal nerve motor latency assessment, postoperative anorectal manometry, and preoperative and postoperative functional evaluation. mean and maximal resting pressures increased from 30 mm hg and 49 mm hg preoperatively to 40 mm hg and 57 mm hg, respectively, postoperatively. likewise, mean and maximal squeeze pressures increased from 27 mm hg and 48 mm hg preoperatively to 39 mm hg and 73 mm hg, respectively, postoperatively (p less than 0.01). furthermore, anal canal high pressure zone length was increased by sphincteroplasty from a mean of 0.9 cm (range 0-3 cm) to a mean of 2.1 cm (range 1-4 cm). these objective physiologic improvements correlated well with subjective functional improvement. subjectively, functional outcome was rated by patients as excellent in 38 percent, good in 38 percent, fair in 19 percent, and poor in only 5 percent of cases. overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication improves both the anal sphincter physiologic profile and fecal continence.
italian experience of voice restoration after laryngectomy with tracheoesophageal puncture. this report concerns 102 cases of tracheoesophageal puncture performed as a means of secondary voice restoration after total laryngectomy, in 70 patients proving unable to learn esophageal speech and as a treatment of choice in a further 32 cases. complications arose in 21 cases but were generally minor and could be overcome. results were favorable in 45 of 70 and 29 of 32 cases, respectively. the method was considered effective, particularly when supported by the patient's determination to learn a verbal communication method.
transient renal acidification defect during acute infantile diarrhea: the role of urinary sodium. we studied urinary acidification daily during the hospital course of 16 infants with acute gastroenteritis and metabolic acidosis. urine ph value on admission was higher than 5.5 in 14 (87%) patients. we hypothesized that inappropriate urinary acidification was due to sodium deficiency and inadequate sodium delivery to the distal nephron. forty-one urinary samples were collected during metabolic acidosis. the mean ph of 24 urine samples with sodium concentration less than 10 mmol/l was significantly higher than the ph of 17 samples with sodium concentration greater than 10 mmol/l (6.04 +/- 0.06 vs 5.19 +/- 0.1; p less than 0.001). the urine ratios of titratable acid to creatinine and of total acidity to creatinine were significantly higher in urine samples containing more sodium (p less than 0.02), whereas the ammonium/creatinine ratio was not. after administration of furosemide or correction of the sodium deficit, appropriate acidification was observed. we conclude that impaired urinary acidification is frequently found during metabolic acidosis in infants with acute gastroenteritis and results from a sodium deficit rather than from transient distal renal tubular acidosis.
intra-arterial urokinase as the initial therapy for acutely ischemic lower limbs acute ischemia of the lower limb remains a significant risk to both life and limb. mortality rates of approximately 10-30% and amputation rates of the same magnitude in the survivors are repeatedly reported despite advances in medical and surgical techniques. our experience, which utilized percutaneous intra-arterial thrombolysis as the initial treatment in 72 instances (63 patients), has resulted in a markedly lower mortality rate of 1.6% and a lower amputation rate of 8.5% in the survivors. careful categorization by clinical degree of ischemia indicates that 82% of the cases were either threatened or irreversible limb ischemia. the initial treatment with thrombolysis did not preclude subsequent prompt surgical treatment when necessary; in these cases, thrombolysis promoted improved surgical results (100%) when it was successful. it markedly reduced the need for urgent surgery, usually simplified the subsequent surgical approach, diminished the overall need for surgery, and often accomplished a successful outcome alone (31%). significant bleeding was not noted during subsequent surgical procedures and was noted in only 2.8% of the cases. confirmation of these results and further improvements in technique might justify the use of an initially high-dose urokinase transcatheter infusion regimen as the initial treatment of choice for acute lower-limb ischemia.
passive immunoprophylaxis after liver transplantation in hbsag-positive patients. 110 hbsag-positive patients underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and received long-term anti-hepatitis b virus (hbv) passive immunoprophylaxis with anti-hbs immunoglobulin. during a mean follow-up period of 20 months, all patients became hbsag negative after transplantation but circulating hbsag reappeared in 25 (22.7%). overall 1-year survival was 83.6% and overall 2 year actuarial recurrence of hbsag was 29% (59% after posthepatitis b cirrhosis, 13% after posthepatitis b-delta cirrhosis, and 0% after fulminant hepatitis b). patients with hbv cirrhosis who were hbv-dna positive had a much greater risk of hbsag recurrence than patients who were hbv-dna negative (96% vs 29% at 2 years). reappearance of hbsag was associated with evidence of hbv replication and abnormal histological findings in the graft. long-term passive anti-hbv immunoprophylaxis significantly reduced hbv reinfection and improved survival in patients without evidence of active hbv replication before orthotopic liver transplantation.
nonmucous glycoproteins as pronucleating agents. cholesterol crystallization-promoting factors probably play an important role in the pathogenesis of gallstone disease. we have isolated one of the factors involved by using lectin-affinity chromatography. a potent promoting activity binds to concanavalin a-sepharose. the activity is heat labile and sensitive to digestion by glycosidase but remarkably insensitive to proteases. the concanavalin a-binding pronucleator affects cholesterol solubilization in model bile in two ways. it induces a shift of cholesterol and phospholipid from the micellar to the vesicular phase but also interacts directly with cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles. the concanavalin a-binding protein fraction contains at least two different promoting factors with gel permeation molecular weights of about 150 kd and 5 kd, respectively. the higher molecular weight activity could be assigned to a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 130 kd. concanavalin a-binding-promoting activity was present in bile from both patients with and without stones, indicating that it is a normal constituent of bile. however, the activity was strongly increased in bile from patients with multiple cholesterol gallstones, suggesting that it could play a key role in gallstone formation in these patients.
antihypertensive effectiveness of nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system in the elderly. the modern approach to the treatment of hypertension (math) study group. the modern approach to the treatment of hypertension (math) trial was conducted to determine the therapeutic safety and efficacy of the once-a-day nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (gits) formulation in a large and diverse cohort of patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. one of the goals of the math study was to evaluate the clinical utility of nifedipine gits in elderly hypertensives. this analysis compares the safety and efficacy of nifedipine gits in elderly patients (greater than or equal to 65 years of age) and nonelderly patients (adults less than 65 years of age). a total of 222 elderly and 933 nonelderly patients from 127 centers were evaluated. following a 2 week placebo washout phase, patients were titrated over 1 to 6 weeks on nifedipine gits 30 to 180 mg/day, increasing in 30 mg increments to achieve goal blood pressure, defined as sitting diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm hg and a 10 mm hg decrease from baseline. therapy was maintained at the optimal dose for an additional 12 weeks. hemodynamic and laboratory parameters were assessed at baseline and at the final treatment visit. baseline parameters were comparable between patient groups except for systolic blood pressure, which was significantly greater in the elderly compared with nonelderly patients (164 +/- 18 v 150 +/- 14 mm hg, respectively, p less than .0001). after 12 weeks of therapy with nifedipine gits, sitting and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure was significantly decreased from baseline for both elderly and nonelderly patients.
cystic tumors of the pancreas. new clinical, radiologic, and pathologic observations in 67 patients. within a 12-year period we treated 67 patients (49 women, 18 men; mean age, 61 years) with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas, including 18 serous cystic adenomas, 15 benign mucinous cystic neoplasms, 27 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas, 3 papillary cystic tumors, 2 cystic islet cell tumors, and 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia. mean tumor size was 6 cm (2 to 16 cm). in 39% the patients had no symptoms, and in 37% the lesions had been misdiagnosed as a pseudocyst. computed tomography was useful for detection, for distinguishing the microcystic subgroup of serous cystadenoma, and for showing rim calcification (all 7 cases were malignant) but was not reliable for distinguishing neoplasm from pseudocyst, serous from mucinous tumors, or benign from malignant. arteriography showed hypervascularity in 4 of 10 serous adenomas, 3 of 11 mucinous carcinomas, and 1 of 1 papillary cystic tumors. endoscopic pancreatography showed no communication with the cyst cavity in 37 of 37 cases of cystic neoplasms but opacified the ectatic ducts in 2 of 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia. stenosis or obstruction of the pancreatic duct indicated cancer. the tumor was resected by distal pancreatectomy in 25 patients, by proximal resection in 29, and by total pancreatectomy in one, with no operative deaths. forty-four per cent of the tumors were malignant. in 10 cases the tumor was unresectable because of local extension or distant metastases, and those patients died at a mean of 4 months. seventy-five per cent of those resected for cure are alive without evident recurrence. because the epithelial lining of the tumor was partially (5% to 98%) absent in 40% to 72% of cases of the major tumor types, and the mucinous component comprised only about 65% of mucinous cystadenoma lining, misdiagnoses on frozen and even permanent sections were made. mitoses and histologic solid growth correlated with malignancy. neuroendocrine elements were seen in 87% of benign and 47% of malignant mucinous tumors. it is recommended that the terms macrocystic and microcystic be abandoned in favor of the histologic designations serous and mucinous. incomplete examination of the cyst wall can be misleading, however. it is suggested that mucinous ductal ectasia be recognized separately from cystic tumors and that all of these lesions be resected, with the possible exception of asymptomatic confirmed serous cystadenomas.
relative effects of brain and non-brain injuries on neuropsychological and psychosocial outcome. based on the 242 consecutive surviving head injury cases and 132 general trauma cases, this study examined the contribution of brain and non-brain injuries to cognitive and psychosocial outcome 1 month postinjury. the study also examined the relationships among various head injury severity indices. the head injury severity indices were all correlated but patients with glasgow coma scale scores in the mild range had broadly ranging scores on the other head injury severity indices (abbreviated injury scale and time to follow commands). neuropsychological outcome was related to brain injury severity, but was not independently influenced by severity of other systems injuries. psychosocial outcome related to both brain and non-brain injuries independently. when evaluating trauma outcome, it is important to consider the contributions of both brain and other system injuries.
does paramedic-base hospital contact result in beneficial deviations from standard prehospital protocols? we reviewed written and audio records of paramedic-base hospital radio contact to determine whether care differed from that suggested in standard prehospital care protocols. records of all 659 contacts for seizure, syncope, abdominal pain, or altered mental state during 1987 (28.4% of all contacts) were scored for the use of standard therapies (such as intravenous access, oxygen, naloxone hydrochloride) and unanticipated therapies (intubation, nitroglycerin). cases that involved unanticipated treatments were reviewed to determine whether they could have been prospectively identified by simple clinical findings. standard therapies were used in the majority of patients. unanticipated therapies were administered to 13 patients, all of whom had abnormal vital signs, diaphoresis, respiratory distress, or a second prominent symptom. data suggest that protocols could replace radio contact for most patients and that the few who might benefit from radio contact can be easily identified. a 90% reduction in radio contacts in los angeles county could save $3 million each year.
dipyridamole magnetic resonance imaging: a comparison with thallium-201 emission tomography. limitation of space and motion artefact make magnetic resonance imaging during dynamic exercise difficult. pharmacological stress with dipyridamole can be used as an alternative to exercise for thallium scanning. forty patients with a history of angina and an abnormal exercise electrocardiogram were studied by dipyridamole thallium myocardial perfusion tomography and dipyridamole magnetic resonance wall motion imaging with a cine gradient refocused sequence. images for both scans were obtained in the oblique horizontal and vertical long axis and short axis planes before and after pharmacological stress with dipyridamole. the myocardium was divided into nine segments for direct comparison of perfusion with wall motion. segments were assessed visually into grades--normal, hypokinesis or reduced perfusion, and akinesis or very reduced perfusion. after dipyridamole there were reversible wall motion abnormalities in 24 (62%) of 39 patients with coronary artery disease and 24 (67%) of 36 patients with reversible thallium defects. the site of wall motion deterioration was always the site of a reversible thallium defect. thallium defects affecting more than two segments were always associated with wall motion deterioration but most single segment thallium defects were undetected by magnetic resonance imaging. there was a significant correlation between detection of wall motion abnormality, the angiographic severity of coronary artery disease, and the induction of chest pain by dipyridamole. there were no significant differences in ventricular volume or ejection fraction changes after dipyridamole between the groups with and without detectable reversible wall motion changes but the normalised magnetic resonance signal intensity of the abnormally moving segments was significantly less than the signal intensity of the normal segments.
follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of native coarctation in neonates and infants. the purpose of this study is to present intermediate-term results of balloon angioplasty of native aortic coarctation in neonates and infants less than 1 year of age. during a 60-month-period that ended in january 1990, 19 infants ages 3 days to 12 months (median, 2.5 months), underwent balloon angioplasty of native coarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 39 +/- 12 mm hg (mean +/- sd) to 11 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.001) and increase in coarctation segment size from 2.2 +/- 0.8 mm to 4.7 +/- 1.0 mm. none required immediate surgical intervention. thirteen of the 19 (68%) had severe associated cardiac defects. there was one death (5%) 2 days after balloon angioplasty, and it was related to associated cardiac defect. one infant was lost to follow-up. it is too soon to restudy one infant. the remaining 16 infants had clinical (36 +/- 18 months) and catheterization (12 +/- 4 months) follow-up data. the residual coarctation gradient (22 +/- 15 mm hg) and coarcted segment size (4.4 +/- 1.6 mm) remain improved (p less than 0.01) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values. five of the 16 (31%) infants (four were neonates at the time of balloon angioplasty) had evidence for recoarctation (defined as gradient greater than 20 mm hg) and underwent surgical resection (two) or repeat balloon angioplasty (three), all with success. none developed aneurysms.
acute subdural hematoma: morbidity, mortality, and operative timing. traumatic acute subdural hematoma remains one of the most lethal of all head injuries. since 1981, it has been strongly held that the critical factor in overall outcome from acute subdural hematoma is timing of operative intervention for clot removal; those operated on within 4 hours of injury may have mortality rates as low as 30% with functional survival rates as high as 65%. data were reviewed for 1150 severely head-injured patients (glasgow coma scale (gcs) scores 3 to 7) treated at a level 1 trauma center between 1982 and 1987; 101 of these patients had acute subdural hematoma. standard treatment protocol included aggressive prehospital resuscitation measures, rapid operative intervention, and aggressive postoperative control of intracranial pressure (icp). the overall mortality rate was 66%, and 19% had functional recovery. the following variables statistically correlated (p less than 0.05) with outcome; motorcycle accident as a mechanism of injury, age over 65 years, admission gcs score of 3 or 4, and postoperative icp greater than 45 mm hg. the time from injury to operative evacuation of the acute subdural hematoma in regard to outcome morbidity and mortality was not statistically significant even when examined at hourly intervals although there were trends indicating that earlier surgery improved outcome. the findings of this study support the pathophysiological evidence that, in acute subdural hematoma, the extent of primary underlying brain injury is more important than the subdural clot itself in dictating outcome; therefore, the ability to control icp is more critical to outcome than the absolute timing of subdural blood removal.
human basophils express interleukin-4 receptors. interleukin-4 (il-4), a multipotential lymphokine reputed to play an important role in the regulation of immune responses, interacts with a variety of hemopoietic target cells through specific cell surface membrane receptors. the present study was designed to investigate whether human basophils express il-4 binding sites. for this purpose, basophils were enriched to homogeneity (93% and 98% purity, respectively) from the peripheral blood of two chronic granulocytic leukemia (cgl) donors using a cocktail of monoclonal antibodies (moabs) and complement. purified basophils bound 125i-radiolabeled recombinant human (rh) il-4 in a specific manner. quantitative binding studies and scatchard plot analysis revealed the presence of a single class of high affinity il-4 binding sites (280 +/- 40 sites per cell in donor 1 and 640 +/- 45 sites per cell in donor 2) with an apparent dissociation constant, kd, of 7.12 x 10(-11) +/- 2.29 x 10(-11) and 9.55 +/- 3.5 x 10(-11) mol/l, respectively. ku812-f, a human basophil precursor cell line, was found to express a single class of 810 to 1,500 high affinity il-4 binding sites with a kd of 2.63 to 5.54 x 10(-10) mol/l. no change in the numbers or binding constants of il-4 receptors was found after exposure of ku812-f cells to rhil-3 (a potent activator of basophils) for 60 minutes. no effect of rhil-4 on 3h-thymidine uptake, release or synthesis of histamine, or expression of basophil differentiation antigens (bsp-1, cd11b, cd25, cd40, cd54) on primary human cgl basophils or ku812-f cells was observed.
the interspinous method of posterior atlantoaxial arthrodesis. thirty-six patients underwent c1-2 posterior wiring and fusion procedures over a 5-year period for unstable c-2 fractures (eight cases), unstable atlas-axis combination fractures (six cases), rheumatoid c1-2 instability (14 cases), os odontoideum (four cases), traumatic c1-2 ligamentous instability (three cases), or instability secondary to a c-2 tumor (one case). in each case, the atlantoaxial arthrodesis utilized sublaminar wire at c-1 and incorporated an iliac-crest strut-graft positioned between the posterior arches of c-1 and c-2, held in place by securing wire around the base of the spinous process of the axis. follow-up examination was performed in all patients after a mean postoperative duration of 33.7 months. the technical aspects and clinical merits of this fusion procedure, which led to a 97% union rate (one nonunion) and minimal morbidity and mortality rates, are presented.
diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care for seborrheic keratoses. a pilot study of an approach to quality assurance for cutaneous surgery in 1985 there were more than 40 million visits for ambulatory surgical procedures in the united states. although benign cutaneous lesions are among the most frequent conditions to receive surgical treatment in ambulatory settings, their treatment is seldom subject to peer review. in this pilot study we assessed diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care using information available from the surgical pathology laboratory. we assessed these two measures of physician performance for 527 seborrheic keratoses removed by 133 clinicians affiliated with four different institutions. overall, a correct preoperative diagnosis was provided in only 49% of cases. dermatologists had the highest diagnostic accuracy (61% vs 35% for all other physicians). an appropriate procedure for the actual pathological diagnosis was performed in only 50% of cases. lesions with a correct preoperative diagnosis were more than eight times more likely to receive appropriate care. our data suggest that many clinicians fail to note a correct diagnosis of common cutaneous lesions before surgical removal, and many patients are treated with procedures that are more invasive than necessary for the final pathological diagnosis. because the approach used in this pilot study relies on data already available, it has promise as a low-cost method of monitoring the quality of care of ambulatory surgery.
choreoathetosis after deep hypothermia without circulatory arrest in 8 of 758 patients undergoing an intracardiac operation under cardiopulmonary bypass and hypothermia, choreoathetosis developed 3 to 7 days postoperatively. before the onset of choreoathetosis, varying degrees of neurological dysfunction were noted. electroencephalography and neuroimaging failed to detect any responsible functional or structural changes. six patients are alive 1 to 3 years postoperatively, and their condition is improving. two patients died of aspiration or sepsis. all patients were grouped based on factors identified as being possibly causative: depth of hypothermia, cooling time, flow rate, and repeated hypothermia. the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group a (rectal temperature greater than 25 degrees c) compared with group b (rectal temperature less than or equal to 25 degrees c) (0/295 versus 8/463; p = 0.02). based on cooling time, the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group b1 (cooling time less than 1 hour) compared with group b2 (cooling time greater than or equal to 1 hour) (1/220 versus 7/243; p = 0.05). based on flow rate during cooling, group b2 was further divided into the low-flow group (less than 1,500 ml.min-1.m-2) and the high-flow group (greater than or equal to 1,500 ml.min-1.m-2). although not significant, the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher in the high-flow group (6/153 versus 1/90; p = 0.22). in group b patients having reoperation, the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher than in patients operated on for the first time (5/54 versus 3/409; p less than or equal to 0.0001).
intradural chordoma of the tentorium cerebelli. case report. a rare case of intradural chordoma is described. the literature contains seven examples of intradural extraosseous chordoma, all reported in a ventral location. this is the first reported case of a primary intradural chordoma distant from the clivus and involving both the supra- and infratentorial compartments.
the gastrin hypothesis. implications for antisecretory drug selection. newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion, such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole, are becoming available for general use. these drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting h2-receptor antagonists. the safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question, however. lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like (ecl) cells in the gastric corpus. available evidence supports a role of gastrin, which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria. in humans, hypergastrinemic states such as zollinger-ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors. such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion. to date, however, no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans. if achlorhydric doses are not used, significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained. such measures should minimize any risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs.
the baltimore experience with laparoscopic management of acute cholecystitis. laparoscopic cholecystectomy has rapidly emerged as a popular alternative to traditional laparotomy and cholecystectomy. acute cholecystitis has been considered to be a relative or absolute contraindication to laparoscopic surgery. after gaining extensive experience in laparoscopic biliary tract surgery, this procedure was attempted in 15 patients with acute cholecystitis. all patients were operated on within 72 hours of admission. in five patients, the laparoscopic procedure was converted to an open laparotomy; in one patient, a localized abscess was found, and in the other four patients, extensive inflammation and edema precluded a safe dissection of the vascular and ductal structures. laparoscopic cholangiography was performed in 14 patients and proved valuable in demonstrating the ductal anatomy. patients were discharged an average of 2.7 days after the laparoscopic procedure. laparoscopic cholecystectomy may be safely performed by experienced surgeons in patients with acute cholecystitis. to ensure a low complication rate, a low threshold for converting the procedure to an open laparotomy must be maintained if the ductal and vascular anatomy cannot be safely demonstrated.
extrahepatic portal vein aneurysm associated with a tortuous portal vein. portal vein aneurysm is rare and its etiology is controversial. a case of extrahepatic portal vein aneurysm associated with an unusually tortuous portal vein is described. real-time ultrasonography showed anechoic masslike lesions at the porta hepatis communicating with the superior mesenteric vein and intrahepatic portal branches. this suggested the presence of two saccular portal vein aneurysms, 27 x 21 mm and 21 x 13 mm in size. magnetic resonance imaging and portal venography confirmed the portal vein aneurysms and an unusually tortuous portal vein curving caudally between them. the liver was histologically normal and there was no evidence of portal hypertension. it is speculated that these portal vein aneurysms may have been congenital and that the associated tortuous portal vein might have been secondary to hemodynamic changes in the portal venous system.
early-onset dementia and extrapyramidal disease: clinicopathological variant of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker or alzheimer's disease? a case of progressive dementia and extrapyramidal signs beginning at age 29, with a ten year course until death, is presented. necropsy examination showed an assortment of plaque types (including striatal plaques), neurofibrillary tangles, granulovacuolar degeneration, and depigmentation of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus. this case had pathological features found in both gerstmann-straussler-scheinker disease and in alzheimer's disease. while somewhat similar to several other cases with features of both diseases, it differs in the presence of dystonia and striatal plaques. although such cases may be difficult to categorize at present, they must be considered in the differential diagnosis of early onset dementia.
epithelial dysfunction in nonbacterial cystitis (interstitial cystitis). traditional concepts of impermeability of the bladder have centered around unique cellular tight junctions and ion pumps. however, recent data from our laboratory have shown that the bladder epithelium in animals and humans relies primarily on its surface glycosaminoglycans to maintain its impermeability. this study demonstrates the first disease associated with an epithelial dysfunction of the bladder, that is a leaky epithelium. the study consisted of 31 normal subjects and 56 individuals with interstitial cystitis. interstitial cystitis patients were shown to have a leaky epithelium by placing a solution of concentrated urea into the bladder and measuring the absorption. the normal subjects absorbed 4.3% in 45 minutes, while the interstitial cystitis patients absorbed 25% (difference is highly significant, p less than 0.005). interstitial cystitis patients with hunner's ulcers (10) had a 34.5% absorption rate, while those without ulcers absorbed 22.8% (46). this difference also was highly significant (p = 0.002) and supports the concept that patients with ulcers have clinically worse disease.
observer variability in the scoring of colpophotographs. colposcopy and cervicography are accepted tools for assessing the cervix for an atypical transformation zone. we studied the validity of the colpophotograph as a measurement tool by determining the agreement of experienced colposcopists using colpophotographs of 50 women. interobserver agreement was generally fair to good (kappa greater than or equal to 0.40) for the presence of the squamocolumnar junction and the area of ectopia but it was poor (kappa less than 0.40) for the area, border, and color characteristics of an atypical transformation zone. intra-observer agreement was fair to good for the color characteristics of an atypical transformation zone, but it was poor for the area and border characteristics. we conclude that observer agreement studies should play a role in the validation of methods used in the visual diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. considerable lack of agreement in reporting cytologic findings is a well-known problem, and lack of agreement might be an even bigger problem in reporting colposcopic findings.
synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum. reports on the incidence of synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum have varied from 2 to 11 per cent. the variability is a result of a lack of uniformity in criteria of diagnosis, differences in the population studied and differences in time period used. in this study, we evaluated the incidence and distribution of synchronous lesions during a recent time period before the use of colonoscopy became widespread. we reviewed the records of all patients with newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum who were operated upon at our institution between 1976 and 1981. in a total group of 1,000 patients of which 52 per cent were men, there were 54 patients or 5.4 per cent who had synchronous carcinomas. the group of patients with synchronous carcinomas were older than the group with nonsynchronous carcinomas (72.4 versus 68.8 years). there was also a higher incidence of associated benign polyps in the group with synchronous carcinomas (70 versus 30 per cent for a nonsynchronous carcinomas). the anatomic distribution of carcinomas of the colon and rectum in the group with synchronous lesions (111 in total) revealed a higher percentage of carcinomas located on the right side (29.7 versus 22.5 per cent), although the difference did not reach statistical significance. synchronous carcinomas were located in nonadjacent segments of the colon in 37 per cent. there was no difference in stage between the groups with and without synchronous carcinomas. the preoperative identification of synchronous lesions by either colonoscopy or barium enema is important for the proper treatment of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum. failure to locate these tumors may lead to the demise of the patient.
cessation of treatment in advanced cancer. a major responsibility for all physicians, but particularly for oncologists, is to recognize the time when active antitumor treatment ceases to have a rational basis. the decision to treat or not to treat at any stage of disease requires an analysis of "the legitimate aims of therapy." we have acquired the ability to cure or prolong survival in an increasing proportion of patients with several types of cancer. for patients who fail to achieve those results and for those with tumors that are rarely amenable to specific therapy, the choice of less surely effective therapy is an option; the patient must participate in the decision, armed with as much information and insight as possible, for conventional and experimental treatment. a distinction must be made between specific antitumor therapy and palliative measures for which cessation is never an option. happily, cessation of treatment must also be considered when therapy has been so successful that the patient has achieved complete remission. at what point may treatment be discontinued without the danger of relapse? these issues are rarely crisply defined, but primary concern for the patient and careful analysis of the available data can lead to appropriate value judgements.
effects of diltiazem on the functional recovery of the myocardium at organ and cellular level during prolonged hypothermic ischemic cardiac arrest. the effectiveness of diltiazem on the functional recovery of the heart, calcium (ca++) uptake and binding, ca++ atpase of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum (sr), and mb fraction of creatine kinase (mbck) of coronary sinus blood was investigated after one and a half hours of reperfusion following three hours of ischemic cardiac arrest. the dogs were divided into three groups: group i, sham bypass; group ii, cold crystalloid cardioplegia; and group iii, cold crystalloid cardioplegia with diltiazem. there was a decrease in aortic pressures left ventricular pressure development (dp/dt), left ventricular work index (lvwi), total systemic vascular resistance (tsvr), and left ventricular systolic pressure (lvsp) in the sham bypass group. there was a decrease in cardiac index (ci), lvwi, and mean right atrial pressure (mrap) and an increase in tsvr and pulmonary vascular resistance (pvr) in group ii as compared with group i. although there was a tendency for a decrease in the indices of myocardial contractility in group ii, they were not significantly different from those in group i. the indices of myocardial contractility, ci, and lvwi in group iii were slightly higher than in group ii, but they were not significantly different from each other. the values for calcium uptake by sr in groups ii and iii were similar but significantly lower than those in group i. calcium binding in group iii was significantly lower than that in group i. calcium atpase of sr in the three groups were similar. although mbck increased in all the groups, the increases were not significantly different among the three groups. the results of this study indicate that cold crystalloid cardioplegia with diltiazem was not better than cold crystalloid alone in preserving the cardiac contractility and cellular function during prolonged ischemic cardiac arrest. however, the cardiac function in terms of cardiac index was better preserved with diltiazem.
results of contemporary radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer: a clinicopathological study with an emphasis on the inadequacy of the tumor, nodes and metastases classification. we reviewed 261 patients who underwent a radical operation at a single institution as definitive treatment of invasive bladder cancer to evaluate the survival and accuracy of the tumor, nodes and metastasis system in characterizing the prognosis. between january 1979 and june 1987 the 261 evaluable patients underwent 1-stage radical cystectomy with pelvic node dissection and urinary diversion. no chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy was given before or after the operation. the postoperative mortality rate was 1.8%. the over-all staging error between clinical and pathological stages was as high as 44%. the over-all actuarial 5-year survival rate was 54.5%. the 5-year survival rates were 75% for stage pt1, 63% for stage pt2, 31% for stage pt3 and 21% for stage pt4 disease. a significant difference in the survival (p less than 0.002) was observed in stage pt3 by dividing tumors confined within the bladder wall (pt3a, 50%) from those extending throughout the bladder wall (pt3b, 15%). a careful evaluation of transitional cell involvement of the prostate in stage pt4a cancer led to the identification of 2 different patterns: 1) contiguous when a bladder tumor extended directly into the prostate through the bladder wall and 2) noncontiguous when a bladder tumor and a transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate were found simultaneously. these patterns had completely different (p less than 0.05) survival rates (6 versus 37%). the patients with high grade tumors had a worse prognosis in comparison with those with grades 1 and 2 tumors (41 versus 56%, p less than 0.005). the over-all 5-year survival of patients with positive nodes was 4% in comparison with 60% of those without nodal involvement (p less than 0.001). despite current optimal surgical treatment, nearly 50% of all patients with invasive bladder cancer continue to die. the need for a modification of the current tumor, nodes and metastasis tumor classification to provide the clinician a more reliable staging system for planning treatment modalities is indeed mandatory.
magnetic resonance imaging of the head and spine: effective for the clinician or the patient? objectives--to test how the results of magnetic resonance imaging influence clinicians' diagnoses and management plans for patients with cranial and spinal problems and to assess changes in the quality of life of these patients. design--survey of patients undergoing cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging with questionnaires about diagnoses and intended management plans before and after imaging and quality of life questionnaires at the time of imaging and again four months later. setting--regional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy unit. subjects--100 consecutive patients referred for cranial imaging in early 1989; 100 similar patients referred for spinal imaging. main outcome measures--changes in clinicians' leading diagnoses after magnetic resonance imaging and their confidence in these diagnoses; changes in intended management plans; assessment of the contribution to the future management of the patient; changes in patients' quality of life. results--magnetic resonance imaging altered the clinicians' leading diagnoses in 35 of 169 (21%) cases. the clinicians became more confident about their leading diagnoses in 90 of 167 (54%). there was a change in management plan in 113 of 182 (62%). the clinicians considered that magnetic resonance imaging made an important contribution to management in 119 of 162 (73%) patients. overall, the patients' quality of life was unchanged at the four month assessment. conclusions--magnetic resonance imaging of patients with cranial and spinal problems influences clinicians' diagnoses and management plans, but the quality of life of these patients remains unchanged.
daytime hypertension in obstructive sleep apnea. prevalence and contributing risk factors. we examined the prevalence of daytime hypertension in a modern sample of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa) and assessed the relative risk factors contributing to the development of hypertension in this disorder. daytime hypertension was present in 92 (45 percent) of 206 male and female patients with osa. stepwise logistic regression revealed that only age and body mass index (bmi) were predictors of hypertension in this population. a subsample of 152 male patients with osa was then compared to 904 men identified from a geographically and ethnically similar general population. when one controlled for age and bmi, the prevalence of hypertension in the two groups was the same except for those aged 25 to 44 years who were markedly obese (bmi greater than 31 kg/m2). in this group, 47 percent of the patients with osa were hypertensive vs 26 percent of control subjects (p less than 0.05). our data suggest that the high prevalence of hypertension in osa is primarily related to age and the excess obesity seen in these patients. in morbidly obese young patients with osa, factors directly related to osa may also be contributing to the development of hypertension. with increasing age, other competitive risks may obscure any independent effect that osa may exert.
overall mortality and cancer mortality around french nuclear sites higher than expected mortality from leukaemia has been observed in the population under age 25 living around sellafield and dounreay, nuclear reprocessing plants in the united kingdom. we report the results of a similar study for the population residing around nuclear sites in france. the number of leukaemia deaths was 58, comparable to the 62 in control areas, and slightly less than the 67 expected from national mortality statistics. twelve deaths due to hodgkin's disease were observed around nuclear sites; this is about twice the number of hodgkin's deaths observed in control areas and twice the number expected from national mortality statistics. this observation must, however, be interpreted in light of the fact that several causes of deaths were studied, increasing the play of chance.
choroid plexus tumors in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome. choroid plexus neoplasms are rare epithelial tumors of the central nervous system. a carcinoma of the choroid plexus occurred in a child from a family with the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome (li-fraumeni or sbla syndrome), an inherited condition characterized by the development of diverse neoplasms (sarcoma, breast cancer, brain tumors, leukemia, adrenal cortical carcinoma, and others). choroid plexus carcinomas were identified in two kindreds previously reported with the syndrome. the literature contains reports of choroid plexus neoplasms occurring in families and in individuals with multiple primary tumors. choroid plexus neoplasm may be a manifestation of the inherited proclivity to tumor development in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome.
cancer in relatives of survivors of childhood sarcoma. relatives of 88 long-term survivors of childhood sarcoma were examined for the familial cancer syndrome of sarcoma, breast cancer, and other neoplasms (li-fraumeni syndrome). twenty-six of 402 close relatives developed cancer (expected, 23.8), including breast cancer in four mothers (expected, 3.1). two sarcoma probands who developed second malignant tumors have multiple relatives with cancer and might have an inherited predisposition. an increased cancer risk and exceptional requirement for disease screening appear to be confined to first-degree relatives of a small fraction of children with sarcoma, notably probands with second cancers.
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil. an unusual complication of a hickman catheter. venous access devices (vad) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer. multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad. the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium, resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-fu). pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed, but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade. she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction.
cerebrospinal fluid neopterin in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. we evaluated cerebrospinal fluid (csf) concentrations of neopterin, a putative marker of activated macrophages, in 97 subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 who had a spectrum of neurological complications. the highest csf neopterin concentrations occurred in those with neurological opportunistic infections, primary central nervous systems lymphoma, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) dementia complex. in general, the csf concentration of neopterin was independent of csf cell count and blood-brain barrier disruption to albumin. in the patients with aids dementia complex, csf neopterin concentrations correlated with severity of disease and decreased in conjunction with clinical improvement following treatment with zidovudine. these results suggest that csf neopterin, although not disease-specific, may be useful as a surrogate marker for the presence of aids dementia complex and its response to antiviral therapy.
treatment of obstructive pneumatosis coli with endoscopic sclerotherapy: report of a case. the case of an 86-year-old man with cardiac and pulmonary failure, in whom pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis caused segmental obstruction of the sigmoid colon is described. the patient was treated with endoscopic puncture and sclerotherapy of the cyst walls in four sessions, giving endoscopic and radiologic regress of the lesions and symptomatic relief.
high grade dysplasia of the gastric mucosa: a marker for gastric carcinoma. the natural history of gastric epithelial dysplasia and its relation to gastric cancer are ill defined. a consecutive series of 40 patients with an initial diagnosis of gastric epithelial dysplasia based on examination of endoscopic biopsies has been reviewed to determine the clinical outcome and to evaluate a two tier histological grading system as a predictor of the risk of cancer. on review, only 20 of the 40 patients were considered to have true dysplasia: seven patients had low grade dysplasia and 13 had high grade dysplasia. of the 13 patients with high grade dysplasia, 11 (85%) were found to have gastric cancer within 15 months. of the 10 patients with high grade dysplasia who underwent gastrectomy, six were found to have early gastric cancer, three had cancer invading into the muscularis propria, and none had lymph node metastases. high grade dysplasia is thus a marker of gastric cancer. moreover, the cancers associated with high grade dysplasia are usually pathologically favourable and curable. the finding, by an experienced pathologist, of high grade dysplasia in two separate sets of endoscopic biopsies is therefore an indication for radical surgical treatment, provided that the patient's age and general condition permit such an approach.
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus. we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy. the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks' gestation. although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester, she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester. polyarteritis nodosa (pan)-like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles, with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges, brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy. pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle. this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle.
femorofemoral bypass: a profile of graft failure. we have reviewed our experience with 71 patients who had a femorofemoral bypass for unilateral iliac artery occlusion or stenosis. we analyzed morbidity, mortality, initial relief of symptoms, early patency, and long-term primary and secondary patency; and we attempted to identify the cause of graft failure. the overall hospital mortality after operative repair was 4%. one-year survival was 84% and 2-year survival was 81%. early patency was 98.5% at 1 month, late patency was 91% at 1 year and 82% at 5 years. the major cause of graft failure was inadequate run-off and outflow disease progression.
effect of v1-vasopressin receptor blockade on arterial pressure in conscious rats with cirrhosis and ascites. angiotensin ii blockade with saralasin in human cirrhosis with ascites is associated with a significant reduction in arterial pressure, indicating that endogenous angiotensin ii plays an important role in the maintenance of systemic hemodynamics in this condition. the aim of the current study was to investigate whether vasopressin also contributes to the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhosis with ascites. the study was performed using three groups of cirrhotic rats with ascites and three groups of control animals. the administration of d(ch2)5tyr(me)avp, a selective antagonist of the vascular effect of vasopressin, to 10 cirrhotic rats induced a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure (from 94 +/- 4 to 85 +/- 4 mm hg; p less than 0.001) and a significant increase in plasma renin activity (from 24.3 +/- 4.9 to 34.3 +/- 5.9 ng/ml.h; p less than 0.02) and plasma norepinephrine concentration (from 1474 +/- 133 to 2433 +/- 253 pg/ml; p less than 0.01). similar results were observed following saralasin administration in a second group of 5 cirrhotic rats [mean arterial pressure decreased from 97 +/- 4 to 85 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.0001); and plasma renin activity and norepinephrine concentration increased from 18.4 +/- 5.8 to 40.3 +/- 5.7 ng/ml.h (p less than 0.02) and from 1383 +/- 70 to 2312 +/- 334 pg/ml (p less than 0.05), respectively]. the simultaneous blockade of angiotensin ii and vasopressin in a third group of cirrhotic rats resulted in a significantly greater reduction of mean arterial pressure (from 97 +/- 6 to 74 +/- 6 mm hg; p less than 0.05). no changes in arterial pressure were observed in the three groups of control rats. these findings indicate that endogenous vasopressin is as important as angiotensin ii in the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhotic rats with ascites and support the contention that arterial hypotension is the initial event leading to the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system and vasopressin in this animal model of cirrhosis.
magnetic resonance imaging for ineffectual tarsal tunnel surgical treatment. tarsal tunnel syndrome (tts) is an entrapment neuropathy caused by compression of the posterior tibial nerve beneath the ankle flexor retinaculum. treatment of tts consists of surgical release of the retinaculum. the failure rate is 10%-20%. magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was used to evaluate a patient with an unsatisfactory response. mr imaging demonstrated incompleteness of the surgical release of the flexor retinaculum.
monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites: a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when (a) the ascitic fluid culture is positive, (b) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and (c) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection. few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria (pure growth of a single type of organism), but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3. in this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients, 44 (31.9%) were episodes of "monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites" compared with 94 (68.1%) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. seventeen patients had both types of infection. the infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups. patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease. in 62% of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis. thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites (who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis--sometimes within a few hours. the concentration of the chemoattractant c5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients; this excludes ascitic fluid c5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis. monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia in the etiology and clinical course of hypertension. patients with untreated hypertension have been shown to be resistant to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and are more hyperinsulinemic and hypertriglyceridemic than matched groups of patients with normal blood pressure. in addition, insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia have been demonstrated in spontaneous hypertensive rats and in sprague-dawley rats fed a fructose-enriched diet. the defect in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in these experimental models can also be shown at the cellular level. experimental interventions that prevent insulin resistance or hyperinsulinemia from developing in fructose-fed rats also greatly attenuate the increase in blood pressure. since endogenous hyperinsulinemia and hypertriglyceridemia have been identified as factors that increase the risk of coronary artery disease (cad), it is likely that they contribute to the increased prevalence of cad in hypertensive patients. antihypertensive treatment may have exacerbated these metabolic abnormalities, which could help explain why it has been difficult to show that lowering blood pressure decreases the risk of cad. these observations raise the possibility that abnormalities of carbohydrate and lipoprotein metabolism may play a role in both the etiology and clinical course of hypertension.
effects of 1.32-micron nd-yag laser on brain thermal and histological experimental data. considering that the 1.32-microns nd-yag laser should have physicothermal properties close to those of the co2 laser, a series of experiments were conducted on rat cortex (n = 51). three laser wavelengths were compared: co2 laser (10.6 microns), 1.06-microns nd-yag, and 1.32-microns nd-yag lasers. for each shot, temperature measurements were recorded with an infrared thermographic videocamera. the digitized signals were figured as thermal profiles and temperature developments. ninety-five shots were correctly studied and analyzed: co2, n = 29; 1.06-microns nd-yag, n = 20; 1.32-microns nd-yag, n = 46. the histological lesions produced by these three lasers were compared on animals killed 24 hours (n = 20), 8 days (n = 20), and 30 days (n = 5) after the laser impacts. for equivalent densities of energy, the depth of cortical necrosis was comparable for the co2 laser (200-250 microns) and the 1.32-microns nd-yag laser (210-260 microns) whatever the date of death; the 1.06-microns nd-yag laser shots were responsible for much more important damage (400-550 microns). because of its important absorption in water and nervous tissue, the authors consider the 1.32-microns nd-yag laser most suitable for neurosurgery, particularly because it is conducted through optic fibers, and therefore is easy to handle during neurosurgical procedures.
phenotypic relationships of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive prostatic carcinoma. thirty-one snap-frozen human prostate specimens containing examples of benign hyperplasia, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (pin), and invasive carcinoma were analyzed using a panel of 24 antibodies and one lectin. twenty-seven additional routinely processed radical prostatectomy specimens were studied using selected probes known to work on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material. three probes, anticytokeratin ka4, anti-vimentin v9, and the lectin from ulex europaeus (uea-1), demonstrated phenotypic similarities between pin and invasive carcinoma. whereas the luminal cells of normal or hyperplastic prostatic epithelium are minimally reactive with ka4 (4%) or uea-1 (0%) and strongly reactive with anti-vimentin (91%), both the pin and invasive carcinoma are reactive with ka4 (89% and 93%, respectively) and uea-1 (96% and 93%, respectively) and minimally reactive with anti-vimentin (15% and 0%, respectively). the increased ka4 staining was shown to be in part due to detection of cytokeratin 19, by using cytokeratin-19-specific antibodies, 4.62 and lp2k. the reasons for the increased expression of this cytokeratin and the decreased expression of vimentin are unclear but seem to indicate a phenotypic relationship between the pin lesions and invasive carcinoma.
isolated calcaneal metastasis in a patient with endometrial adenocarcinoma. a 55-year-old woman with a history of stage ia endometrial adenocarcinoma, previously treated with surgery and intracavitary radiation therapy, had an isolated calcaneal metastasis. normal radiographs led to a delay in the diagnosis of her relapse. an ankle computed tomographic scan finally identified a mass, and the surgical biopsy specimen confirmed the diagnosis. this is the first reported case of an isolated calcaneal metastasis in endometrial adenocarcinoma to the authors' knowledge.
percutaneous support devices for high risk or complicated coronary angioplasty. indications for coronary angioplasty have expanded to include patients with unstable acute ischemic syndromes, severe multivessel coronary artery disease and impaired left ventricular function. several mechanical approaches have been developed as adjuncts to high risk coronary angioplasty to improve patient tolerance of coronary balloon occlusion and maintain hemodynamic stability in the event of complications. these percutaneous techniques include intraaortic balloon counterpulsation, anterograde transcatheter coronary perfusion, coronary sinus retroperfusion, cardiopulmonary bypass, hemopump left ventricular assistance and partial left heart bypass. the intraaortic balloon pump provides hemodynamic support and ameliorates ischemia by decreasing myocardial work; it may be inserted for periprocedural complications or before angioplasty in patients with ischemia or hypotension. anterograde distal coronary artery perfusion may be accomplished passively through an autoperfusion catheter or by active pumping of oxygenated blood or fluorocarbons through the central lumen of an angioplasty catheter. synchronized coronary sinus retroperfusion produces pulsatile blood flow via the cardiac veins to the coronary bed distal to a stenosis. both perfusion techniques limit development of ischemic chest pain and myocardial dysfunction in patients undergoing prolonged balloon inflations. percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass provides complete systemic hemodynamic support which is independent of intrinsic cardiac function or rhythm and has been employed prophylactically in very high risk patients before coronary angioplasty or emergently for abrupt closure. these and newer support devices, while associated with significant complications, may ultimately improve the safety of coronary angioplasty and allow its application to those who would otherwise not be candidates for revascularization.
an in vitro evaluation of an artificial heart. interactions between human blood and the penn state artificial heart were examined in vitro to study the effects of various operating conditions on the hematologic response. a dual-loop recirculating flow system that accommodated human blood was developed and blood was subjected for 3 hr to various operating conditions known to alter fluid mechanics in the artificial ventricle. the operating conditions investigated were: 60 beats/min at 50% systolic duration, 60 beats/min at 30% systolic duration, and 90 beats/min at 50% systolic duration. quantification of plasma free hemoglobin provided a direct indicator of hemolysis in the flow system. platelet number and beta-thromboglobulin levels were monitored to investigate thrombotic activity, and levels of complement 3a were measured to examine complement system activation. the system was effective in demonstrating the relative hemolytic properties of the operating conditions. ninety beats/min induced 37% more hemolysis than 60 beats/min at 50% systolic duration, and 50% systolic duration induced 32% more hemolysis than 30% systolic duration at 60 beats/min. there were no statistically significant changes in either platelet number or beta-thromboglobulin levels during the 3 hr recirculation period. increases were seen in complement 3a levels, but these appeared to be surface-induced and not sensitive to the different operating conditions. these studies demonstrate the usefulness of the flow system in examining the relative hemolytic properties of the artificial ventricle, and suggest that bulk turbulent stresses may play a more important role than laminar wall shear stresses in mediating blood damage in this artificial ventricle.
human dose-response relationship for decompression and endogenous bubble formation. the dose-response relationship for decompression magnitude and venous gas emboli (vge) formation in humans was examined. pressure exposures of 138, 150, and 164 kpa (12, 16, and 20.5 ft of seawater gauge pressure) were conducted in an underwater habitat for 48 h. the 111 human male volunteer subjects then ascended directly to the surface in less than 5 min and were monitored for vge with a continuous-wave doppler ultrasound device over the precordium or the subclavian veins at regular intervals for a 24-h period. no signs or symptoms consistent with decompression sickness occurred. however, a large incidence of vge detection was noted. these data were combined with those from our previously reported experiments at higher pressures, and the data were fit to a hill dose-response equation with nonlinear least-squares or maximum likelihood routines. highly significant fits of precordial vge incidences were obtained with the hill equation (saturation depth pressure at which there is a 50% probability of detectable vge [d(vge)50] = 150 +/- 1.2 kpa). subclavian monitoring increased the sensitivity of vge detection and resulted in a leftward shift [d(vge)50 = 135 +/- 2 kpa] of the best-fit curve. we conclude that the reduction in pressure necessary to produce bubbles in humans is much less than was previously thought; 50% of humans can be expected to generate endogenous bubbles after decompression from a steady-state pressure exposure of only 135 kpa (11 ft of seawater). this may have significant implications for decompression schedule formulation and for altitude exposures that are currently considered benign. these results also imply that endogenous bubbles arise from preexisting gas collections.
major cross-country differences in risk of dying for people with iddm. diabetes epidemiology research international mortality study group. objective: little is known concerning global differences in the risk of premature death for individuals developing youth-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm). the diabetes epidemiology research international study was developed to examine the mortality patterns of four population-based cohorts of iddm cases from allegheny county, pennsylvania (n = 1000), finland (n = 5146), israel (n = 681), and japan (n = 1428). research design and methods: all subjects were diagnosed as having diabetes, were less than 18 yr old at onset, were taking insulin at the time of hospital discharge, and were diagnosed between 1 january 1965 and 31 december 1979. the living status as of 1 january 1985 was determined. results: overall, there were 182 deaths. life-table analysis revealed that at 20-yr duration of diabetes, 5.5% of the cohort had died in allegheny county in contrast to only 3.1% in finland and 4.6% in israel (p less than 0.01). follow-up for an additional 3 yr in the united states and finland revealed major differences in the 30- to 39-yr age-group, with 3.9 times greater premature mortality in the u.s. cohort compared with the finnish group (overall mortality 2.3 vs. 0.6%, respectively). the japanese cohort was developed in a somewhat different manner than the other three; therefore, the populations of the u.s., finland, and israel were reconfigured to make them directly comparable to that of japan. the japanese cohort exhibited markedly higher age-adjusted mortality rates (n/100,000 person-yr of diabetes) than the other three (japan 681, u.s. 230, finland 171, and israel 131). conclusions: these data indicate that young adult iddm subjects are at an increased risk of premature death, there are differences in the mortality risk across countries, and both the u.s. and japan have the major problem of an apparently excessive premature death rate among young people who have diabetes.
fatal fungal pericarditis after cardiac surgery and immunosuppression. the cases of two patients with fulminant pericarditis after cardiac surgery are reported. both fungal infections developed after rethoracotomy for open-chest cardiac resuscitation and high-dose glucocorticoid treatment. although the time course of both infections from the inoculation of fungi during rethoracotomy and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids to the lethal outcome was strikingly similar, histopathologic studies disclosed the disparate character of the two fungal pathogens responsible: the yeast candida albicans and the angiotropic mold aspergillus fumigatus.
differential diagnosis of mut and cbl methylmalonic aciduria by dna-mediated gene transfer in primary fibroblasts. methylmalonic aciduria can be caused by mutations in the gene encoding the methylmalonyl coenzyme a mutase apoenzyme (mut) or genes required for the provision of cofactor b12 (cbl). the mut and cbl forms are classically differentiated by somatic cell complementation. we describe a novel method for differential diagnosis of mut and cbl methylmalonic aciduria using dna-mediated gene transfer of a methylmalonyl coa mutase cdna clone. gene transfer of a functional methylmalonyl coa mutase cdna clone into mut fibroblasts reconstitutes holoenzyme activity measured by metabolism of [14c]-propionate in culture. identical gene transfers into cbl fibroblasts have no effect. this method is used for the differential diagnosis of mut and cbl genotypes in cells from patients with a clinical diagnosis of methylmalonic aciduria and is shown to be a facile, sensitive, and specific method for genetic diagnosis. this work establishes the principle of using dna-mediated gene transfer to identify the genotype of diseases which can result from mutations at several different genetic loci. this type of differential genotypic diagnosis will be particularly important for establishing the applicability of somatic gene therapy in individual patients.
isolated lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis. the peri-operative anaesthetic management of 11 patients with pulmonary fibrosis undergoing single-lung transplantation is presented. intra-operative problems, the early postoperative phase of recovery and intensive care, and other incidents in which general anaesthesia was required for the management of complications, are featured. results, both short- and long-term, are mentioned. major intra-operative events that cause concern appear to be related to the severity of the presenting illness and the development of respiratory failure. others have reported the development of intra-operative cardiac failure. all cases were successfully managed operatively using conventional one-lung anaesthesia, although resort to partial cardiopulmonary bypass may have been indicated in some. the indications and attitudes to utilising cardiopulmonary bypass in the evolution of techniques for facilitating single-lung transplantation are reviewed.
mild hypothermic intervention after graded ischemic stress in rats. we investigated the effect of mild (34 degrees c) postischemic hypothermia on hippocampal neuronal damage in 43 rats as a function of the duration of forebrain ischemia. two temperatures and two durations were investigated. in two normothermic groups ischemia lasted 8 (n = 15) and 12 (n = 10) minutes, respectively. in two hypothermic groups ischemia lasted 8 (n = 9) and 12 (n = 9) minutes, respectively, and was followed immediately by the lowering and maintenance of rectal temperature to 34 degrees c for 2 hours. seven days after the ischemic insult, the rats were sacrificed and the brains were prepared for histologic analysis; the percentage of necrotic neurons among the total neuronal population in selected ca1/2 sectors of the hippocampus was determined. there was a significant decrease in the percentage of necrotic neurons in the central (77.5% versus 55.5%, p = 0.006) and lateral (62.5% versus 38.9%, p=0.005) areas and in the overall ca1/2 sector of the hippocampus (71.8% versus 52.2%, p = 0.008) for the 8-minute hypothermic group compared with the 8-minute normothermic group. in contrast, no differences were detected in any area of the hippocampus between the 12-minute normothermic and the 12-minute hypothermic groups (p = 0.29-0.49). our data indicate that mild postischemic whole-body hypothermia ameliorates neuronal survival when ischemia lasts 8 minutes but not 12 minutes.
intravascular laser therapy of acute myocardial infarction. the efficacy of a new method of treatment, endovascular blood irradiation with he-ne laser, developed by the authors, was studied in 295 patients with primary acute transmural myocardial infarction (mi). twenty-four-hour holter monitoring findings before and after laser irradiation suggested the possibility of preventing sudden death in the acute period of mi owing to the high anti-arrhythmic efficacy of the method with respect to high-grade ventricular arrhythmias. precodial ecg mapping and serial determination of blood enzyme activities (cpk and mb-cpk) showed that irradiation performed within the first hours of mi development contributed to effective limitation of the infarction area and restricted the spread of the area of myocardial ischemic damage.
treatment of travelers' diarrhea: ciprofloxacin plus loperamide compared with ciprofloxacin alone. a placebo-controlled, randomized trial objective: to compare the safety and efficacy of loperamide used in combination with ciprofloxacin or ciprofloxacin alone for the treatment of travelers' diarrhea. design: double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. setting: united states army hospital in egypt. participants: united states military personnel with travelers' diarrhea (n = 104) during a military exercise in november 1989. persons who were noncompliant, had bloody diarrhea, or had received antidiarrheal medications before entry into the study were excluded. interventions: all participants with travelers' diarrhea were treated with ciprofloxacin, 500 mg twice daily for 3 days. fifty of these patients were randomly assigned to receive loperamide, a 4-mg first dose and 2 mg for every loose stool (as much as 16 mg/d), and 54 were randomly assigned to receive placebo. measurements: enterotoxigenic escherichia coli was isolated from 57% of patients; shigella and salmonella, seen in 4% and 2% of patients, respectively, were not common. main results: after 24 hours, the symptoms of 82% of patients in the ciprofloxacin and loperamide group compared with 67% in the ciprofloxacin and placebo group had improved or fully recovered (odds ratio, 2.3; 95% ci, 0.8 to 6.3; p = 0.08). after 48 hours, the symptoms of 90% of both groups had improved or fully recovered. the mean number of stools for those receiving loperamide was not much lower than those who did not receive loperamide after 24 hours (1.9 +/- 0.2 [se] compared with 2.6 +/- 0.2) or 48 hours (3.1 +/- 0.3 compared with 4.0 +/- 0.3) of treatment (p = 0.19). conclusions: in a region where enterotoxigenic e. coli was the predominant cause of travelers' diarrhea, loperamide combined with ciprofloxacin was not better than treatment with ciprofloxacin alone. loperamide appeared to have some benefit in the first 24 hours of treatment in patients infected with enterotoxigenic e. coli. both regimens were safe.
the potential role of postoperative hepatic artery chemotherapy in patients with high-risk hepatomas. the relationship between operative findings of hepatoma and the postoperative prognosis was studied to clarify indications for adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy after hepatectomy. the results of adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy using 0.4 mg/kg of doxorubicin and 0.12 mg/kg of mitomycin c and infusion of 5-fluorouracil were reported. one hundred sixty patients who had undergone hepatectomy for hepatoma were studied. in the operative findings of hepatoma, with a surgical margin of less than 10 mm, intrahepatic metastasis, tumor embolus in the second or more proximal branch of the portal vein, or lack of capsule formation related to the prognosis were the risk factors for recurrence. in 132 patients with these risk factors the survival rate of 19 patients with adjuvant arterial chemotherapy was significantly higher than for the 113 patients without it. adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy thus may be an effective therapy and should be studied prospectively in patients undergoing hepatectomy for high-risk hepatoma.
hot spots for growth hormone gene deletions in homologous regions outside of alu repeats. familial growth hormone deficiency type 1a is an autosomal recessive disease caused by deletion of both growth hormone-1 (gh1) alleles. ten patients from heterogeneous geographic origins showed differences in restriction fragment length polymorphism haplotypes in nondeleted regions that flanked gh1, suggesting that these deletions arose from independent unequal recombination events. deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) samples from nine of ten patients showed that crossovers occurred within 99% homologous, 594-base pair (bp) segments that flanked gh1. a dna sample from one patient indicated that the crossover occurred within 454-bp segments that flanked gh1 and contained 274-bp repeats that are 98% homologous. although alu repeats, which are frequent sites of recombination, are adjacent to gh1, they were not involved in any of the recombination events studied. these results suggest that length and degree of dna sequence homology are important in defining recombination sites that resulted in gh1 deletions.
mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock. from february 1982 to february 1990, 38 patients (30 male patients and 8 female patients) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years (mean 49.4 years) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) at st. louis university medical center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock. all patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients. patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit, cardiac catheterization laboratory, or the emergency department. diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions (12 patients), ischemic disease (15 patients), end-stage cardiomyopathy (7 patients), congenital heart disease (3 patients), or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection (1 patient). three patients could not be resuscitated with ecmo because of low flow, but the remaining 35 (92%) achieved hemodynamic stability with ecmo flows greater than 2 l/min/m2. duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours (mean 28 hours). twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ecmo support after coronary artery bypass (five patients), cardiac transplantation (two patients), or ventricular assist device insertion (eight patients), or with inotropic support (nine patients). of the 14 patients not weaned, three were inadequately resuscitated, two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ecmo, and nine were not candidates for further intervention. nine (24%) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors. our results indicate that resuscitative ecmo is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with (1) patients younger than 60 years of age; (2) patients having acute events (failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) amenable to surgical intervention; and (3) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ecmo insertion. with these criteria, ecmo, when used as a resuscitative system, can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest.
bacteriologic findings with ectopic pregnancy. the fallopian tubes and peritoneum of 27 patients were cultured at the time of salpingotomy/salpingectomy to determine if active tubal infection was the cause of post-operative temperature elevations. infection was documented in six patients (22%). previous exposure to chlamydia trachomatis was documented with 2 endocervical cultures and 17 serum specimens positive for igg antibody. the culture results, however, did not correlate with the postoperative febrile morbidity.
maxillofacial surgery and nasal cpap. a comparison of treatment for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome nasal continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is the primary therapy for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas). recent reports have indicated, however, that there is a small but significant number of failures related to patient compliance. primary surgical treatment, which has been uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (uppp), has declined because of poor results. a reviewed of uppp failures has shown that while uppp eliminated palatal obstruction, it failed to eliminate base of tongue obstruction. maxillofacial surgery has been reported as treatment of osas by correcting base of tongue obstruction. thirty patients with severe osas were evaluated to compare nasal cpap and maxillofacial surgery. the goal was to determine if our surgical protocol was as effective as nasal cpap. all patients initially underwent baseline diagnostic polysomnography to document osas. a nasal cpap study was performed to determine the appropriate positive end-expiratory pressure. the patients in this study were using nasal cpap, but they found it unacceptable as long-term treatment and elected surgery. maxillofacial surgery consisted of maxillary, mandibular, and hyoid advancement. polysomnography was performed six months following surgery and compared with the night 2 cpap results. the parameters included in the investigation were the respiratory disturbance index (rdi), lowest sao2, number of sao2 falls below 90 percent, total sleep time (tst), rem sleep percent, stage 3-4 sleep percent, and wake after sleep onset. the mean rdi before treatment was 72.0 (sd 25.7). after completing therapy, the rdi from surgery and cpap was 8.8 (sd 6.0) and 8.6 (sd 4.1), respectively. the mean low sao2 prior to treatment was 61.0 (sd 13.5), and the cpap results and postsurgical results were 86.2 (sd 5.5) and 86.1 (sd 4.2), respectively. an analysis of variance was used to examine the results, and there was no statistical difference between nasal cpap and surgery for all respiratory variables.
cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide combination as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer: a meta-analytic review. twenty-three patients with marginally resectable and unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer (stages iiia and iiib) were treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy. all patients received three cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with two alkylating agents, cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 intravenously (i.v.) and ifosfamide 3.5 g/m2 i.v., mesna 12 g/m2 was given additionally to prevent drug hematuria. six of 23 patients (26%) had partial response. of the seven patients who underwent thoracotomy, two were completely resected, but with macroscopic residual disease. mean time to progression for the whole group was 7 months. fifteen patients had progression of disease, with local metastases only in six, and distant metastases in eight. after administering 52 chemotherapy cycles, cyclophosphamide-ifosfamide doses were cut down, as eight of 16 patients required hospitalization for fever during neutropenia nadirs. this two-alkylating (non-cisplatin) regimen, unlike cisplatin-based regimens, was ineffective, and further trials are not recommended.
mucosal intussusception to avoid ascending cholangitis. many methods have been devised to prevent ascending cholangitis following kasai's hepatic portoenterostomy for biliary atresia. to investigate the effectiveness of mucosal intussusception in preventing ascending cholangitis, 20 mongrel dogs were randomized to undergo roux-en-y cholecystjejunostomy and common bile duct ligation with or without mucosal intussusception. aeromonas hydrophila was instilled into the gastrointestinal tract. bacterial cultures were grown from samples taken from the gallbladders and lower jejunum, and blood chemistry and barium studies were performed. the barium studies showed satisfactory lack of reflux in all ten dogs with mucosal intussusception. only two of them had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder 3 days after bacterial instillation into the jejunum. all ten dogs in the control group had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder. our results showed that the mucosal intussusception group had a significantly lower rate of recovery of organisms from the gallbladder compared with the control group when the organisms were instilled into distal intestine (p less than 0.05). the method is worthy of clinical trial as a means of preventing or treating ascending cholangitis.
a report on radiation-induced gliomas. radiation-induced gliomas are uncommon, with only 73 cases on record to date. the disease that most frequently occasioned radiation therapy has been acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). three more cases are added here, two after irradiation for all and one after irradiation for tinea capitis. in a review of the relevant literature, the authors stress the possibility that the all-glioma and the retinoblastoma-glioma links point to syndromes in their own right that may occur without radiation therapy.
variceal rebleeding after portosystemic shunting. strategies and solutions to a vexing problem. the purpose of this review was to discuss an approach to the treatment of recurrent bleeding from esophageal or gastric varices after portosystemic shunt. from our own clinical experience, as well as that of others, it appears that re-establishment of portal decompression should offer the best chance at long-term survival. luckily, innovations in angiographic technique have allowed attainment of this goal without the inordinate risk of an operative procedure. however, not all patients' situations will be amenable to such treatment. for some of them, operative decompression of the portal venous system can be carried out in an anatomic area previously untouched. for those patients in whom no decompression is possible, direct endoscopic treatment of the varices will offer an alternative, albeit temporizing, approach.
detecting lower motor neuron dysfunction of the pharynx and larynx with electromyography. this study assessed the utility of clinical electromyography (emg) for detecting lower motor neuron (lmn) or upper motor neuron (umn) dysfunction affecting the intrinsic muscles of the larynx and pharynx. twenty-nine subjects were examined; their clinical diagnoses included perioperative nerve injury, cerebral infarction, and lateral medullary infarction. resting activity, motor unit action potential (muap) morphology, and muap recruitment were evaluated in every case. medical records (excluding emg data) were analyzed for clinical evidence of lmn or umn dysfunction in the intrinsic muscles of the larynx and pharynx. the diagnosis of lmn dysfunction rested on clinical data consistent with cranial nerve injury, poliomyelitis, wallenberg syndrome, or unilateral bulbar palsy. criteria for umn dysfunction included previous cerebral (not brainstem) infarction or mass lesion or the presence of hemiparesis. electromyographic abnormalities were significantly associated with lmn dysfunction (p less than .05), but they were not significantly associated with umn dysfunction. of the parameters tested, muap recruitment was the most sensitive (82%) and specific (92%).
use of monoclonal antibody kp1 for identifying normal and neoplastic human mast cells. the monoclonal antibody kp1 (cd68) was used to stain normal and neoplastic monocytes and macrophages in routinely processed, paraffin wax embedded tissue: mast cells also exhibited strong, consistent cytoplasmic immunoreactivity. light microscopic findings were corroborated by electron microscopical and immunocytochemical findings. the predominant sites of immunoreactivity were the specific intracytoplasmic granules of the mast cells. all mast cell subtypes--that is, normal and reactive mast cells, such as those in lymph nodes exhibiting chronic non-specific lymphadenitis, and malignant or neoplastic mast cells in various types of mastocytosis--reacted with this antibody. this finding is of diagnostic importance, because mast cell proliferation could be mistaken for histiocyte proliferation. it also supports the hypothesis that mast cells derive from the bone marrow.
clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of children with acute lymphocytic leukemia and down's syndrome. a pediatric oncology group study. of 2947 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (all), treated during three consecutive studies of the pediatric oncology group (1974-1986), 52 (1.8%) had down's syndrome (ds). comparison of clinical and laboratory characteristics showed no significant differences in leukocyte count, racial distribution, sex ratio, platelet count, incidence of mediastinal mass, lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly, or percentage of blood or bone marrow blasts for children with all with or without down's syndrome (ds-all or nds-all, respectively). however, children with ds-all were slightly older at the time of presentation and had higher hemoglobin values. the relative frequency of each major immunophenotype (early pre-b, pre-b, t, or b) was also comparable for patients with or without ds. for this report, treatment regimens were categorized as either conventional (no consolidation therapy) or intensive. cox regression analysis revealed that the presence of ds, a higher leukocyte count, black race, or age older than 10 years was independently associated with a poorer event-free survival (efs) for children treated with conventional chemotherapy. however, for the cohort of children who received intensive chemotherapy, ds was no longer an independent risk factor. in fact, event-free survival (efs) was markedly improved to a level comparable with that observed in the children diagnosed as having nds-all. on the other hand, serious toxicity, requiring interruption of treatment, was significantly more frequent in the intensively treated children with ds compared with similarly treated patients with nds-all, although deaths resulting from toxicity occurred infrequently.
fractionated high dose rate versus low dose rate regimens for intracavitary brachytherapy of the cervix. i. general considerations based on radiobiology. intracavitary brachytherapy at low dose rate (ldr), often with the addition of external-beam radiotherapy, has long been considered the treatment of choice for carcinoma of the cervix, maximizing acute damage in the treatment volume, whilst minimizing late effects. in recent years, primarily for reasons of convenience and cost, there has been a move towards treatments involving a few fractions at high dose rate (hdr). using data from cells of human origin cultured in vitro, we make estimates of the doses that, delivered in 2-12 hdr fractions, produce tumour control and early effects equivalent to intracavitary treatments at ldr. we also show that, for situations where the normal-tissue dose responsible for late effects is significantly smaller than the tumour dose, hdr schemes may be devised which, while yielding early killing comparable with that of ldr, should not result in worse late effects. we suggest that this scenario probably applies to treatment of carcinoma of the cervix.
brachial plexus block with a new local anaesthetic: 0.5 per cent ropivacaine a new local anaesthetic, ropivacaine hydrochloride, was used in a concentration of 0.5 per cent in 32 patients receiving a subclavian perivascular block for upper extremity surgery. one group (n = 15) received 0.5 per cent ropivacaine without epinephrine and a second group (n = 17) received 0.5 per cent ropivacaine with epinephrine in a concentration of 1:200,000. anaesthesia was achieved in 87 per cent of the patients in both groups in all of the c5 through t1 brachial plexus dermatomes. motor block was profound with 100 per cent of patients in both groups developing paresis at both the shoulder and hand and 100 per cent developing paralysis at the shoulder. there was a rapid initial onset of sensory block (a mean of less than four minutes for analgesia) with a prolonged duration (a mean of greater than 13 hr of analgesia). the addition of epinephrine did not significantly affect the quality or onset of sensory or motor block. the duration of sensory block was reduced by epinephrine at t1 for analgesia and at c7, c8, and t1 for anaesthesia. the duration of sensory block in the remaining brachial plexus dermatomes as well as the duration of motor block was not effected by epinephrine. there was no evidence of cardiovascular or central nervous system toxicity in either group with a mean dose of 2.5-2.6 mg.kg-1 ropivacaine.
the indian experience with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. a study of 58 consecutive indian infants operated for congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis revealed an accentuated male predominance in the incidence of the disease and far less preoperative hemetemesis as compared to that in their western counterparts. 'pyloric tumor' was palpable in 89% of cases. only 34.5% of these infants were first born. postoperative vomiting occurred in 13.8% of patients and wound sepsis was not encountered. air contrast radiography confirmed the diagnosis in clinically doubtful cases.
quincke's edema, revisited. angioneurotic edema involving the uvula is sometimes referred to as quincke's edema. the term angioneurotic edema describes several closely related diseases manifested by recurrent, acute edema of the skin or mucosa. we report a case of uvular edema secondary to food allergy, treated successfully with steroids. a short review of angioneurotic edema and its management is also presented.
evaluation of tumor progression by repeated fine needle biopsies in prostate adenocarcinoma: modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological differentiation. repeated fine needle aspiration biopsies of the prostate were taken during a period of 24 months or more from 84 patients with untreated prostate cancer. serial followup regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of the tumor cells was possible in 72 and 78 patients, respectively. during followup the modal deoxyribonucleic acid values in the tumor cells changed towards an increased aneuploidy in 17 patients and the cytological differentiation decreased in 18. these findings of a change in modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of prostate cancer cells during the course of untreated patients support the concept of a gradual dedifferentiation of prostate cancer.
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the incidence, clinical characteristics, and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide (vm-26), etoposide (vp-16), or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy. fifty (46%) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions. the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52% (95% confidence limits, 41% and 63%) for vm-26, compared with 34% (95% confidence limits, 24% and 44%) for vp-16. the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose. this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16. all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification, characterized by urticaria, angioedema, flushing, rashes, or hypotension, and 86% of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria. there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication, and no deaths occurred. the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported, but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity.
expression of blood-group antigen a--a favorable prognostic factor in non-small-cell lung cancer. background. new prognostic factors are needed to guide the treatment of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. we evaluated the prognostic value of altered expression of abh blood-group antigens, which has been implicated in the multistep process of carcinogenesis and tumor progression. methods. the presence of blood-group antigens was assessed immunohistochemically in paraffin-embedded tumor samples from 164 patients who underwent curative surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer from 1980 through 1982. monoclonal antibodies were used to detect the a and b antigens, and ulex europaeus agglutinin i to detect h antigen. results. survival of the 28 patients with blood type a or ab who had primary tumors negative for blood-group antigen a was significantly shorter than that of the 43 patients with antigen a-positive tumors (p less than 0.001) and of the 93 patients with blood type b or o (p = 0.002). the respective median survival times were 15, 71, and 39 months. disease progressed significantly earlier in the 28 patients with tumors negative for blood-group antigen a than in the antigen a-positive patients (p less than 0.001). expression of blood-group antigen b or h in tumor cells did not correlate with survival. cox proportional-hazards regression analysis showed that expression of blood-group antigen a in tumor cells added significantly to the prediction of overall survival provided by other known prognostic factors among the patients with blood type a or ab (p = 0.004). conclusions. expression of blood-group antigen a in tumor cells is an important favorable prognostic factor in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. this variable needs to be considered in the design of future trials of therapy.
adult open heart surgery in new york state. an analysis of risk factors and hospital mortality rates this study analyzes data from new york state's new cardiac surgery reporting system, which contains information about cardiac preoperative risk factors, postoperative complications, and hospital discharge. the purposes of the study were to determine the set of significant clinical risk factors and to identify cardiac surgical centers most likely to have serious quality-of-care problems. significant risk factors for in-hospital death were age, gender, ejection fraction, previous myocardial infarction, number of open heart operations in previous admissions, diabetes requiring medication, dialysis dependence, disasters (acute structural defect, renal failure, cardiogenic shock, gunshot), unstable angina, intractable congestive heart failure, left main trunk narrowed more than 90%, and type of operation performed. four of the 28 hospitals had significantly higher mortality rates than expected, given the risk factors of their patients. subsequent site visits and medical record reviews confirmed that these facilities had high percentages of quality-of-care problems among cases resulting in mortality.
hypothalamic or central obesity is associated with an early rise in plasma insulin concentration. insulin levels in a 7-year-old boy with hyperphagia and obesity following an episode of meningoencephalitis were studied sequentially during the course of progressive weight gain. high fasting insulin levels (1183 pmol/l) and strikingly high insulin release in response to glucose (7892 pmol/l) were found within weeks of the onset of the illness. the abnormality in insulin secretion occurred prior to the marked weight gain. hyperinsulinemia was not accompanied by hypoglycemia. early hyperinsulinemia may be a primary event in the development of hyperphagia and obesity following hypothalamic injury.
treatment of fournier's gangrene with adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy. fournier's gangrene is a devastating infection and often is associated with a high morbidity and mortality. surgical debridement and antibiotics are the cornerstones of therapy. this case describes the use of hyperbaric oxygen as an adjunct in the treatment of fournier's gangrene.
pulmonary-renal syndrome with "triad" involvement due to small vessel vasculitis. we describe the clinical course and morphologic findings of a 22-year-old woman presenting with a systemic disease that included nasal ulceration, hemoptysis and rapidly progressive renal failure. biopsies of nasal septum and lung revealed small vessel leukocytoclastic angiitis while renal biopsy showed a diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis. immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of clinical symptoms and resolution of glomerulonephritis as documented in a followup biopsy. although her clinical presentation with triad organ involvement strongly suggested wegener's granulomatosis, this case illustrates that other varieties of vasculitis may mimic wegener's granulomatosis.
postischemic seizures and necrotizing ischemic brain damage: neuroprotective effect of postischemic diazepam and insulin. insulin has recently been shown experimentally to modify ischemic brain damage when administered either before or after the episode of ischemia. in controlled studies in the rat, high doses of insulin (greater than or equal to 8 iu/kg) result in seizures and early death. the present study was undertaken to determine whether diazepam, a potent, centrally penetrating gabamimetic, alone or in combination with insulin, could mitigate postischemic seizures or regional selective neuronal necrosis and infarction. forebrain ischemia was induced in rats for 10 1/2 minutes by carotid clamping and hypotension. the animals were observed clinically until elective perfusion-fixation and quantitative pathologic examination at 1-week recovery. diazepam, either alone or with insulin, reduced regional brain necrosis and reduced the seizure rate. insulin alone also led to reduced regional necrosis. however, the combination of diazepam plus insulin yielded the greatest proportion of undamaged brains in the hippocampus, thalamus, and midbrain. in the neocortex, the diazepam-only group showed the greatest number of normal hemispheres. hypothalamic infarction was eliminated by all three treatments. seizures per se were associated with increased damage in the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and brainstem, irrespective of treatment group. the findings indicate that ischemic brain necrosis can be mitigated by diazepam and insulin treatment begun in the immediate postischemic period.
snoring (i). daytime sleepiness in regular heavy snorers. fifteen men, mean (means) age 44 years, were investigated. their means body mass index was 21.9 kg/m2, and all of them had a respiratory disturbance index below 5 and had good nocturnal oxygen saturation. the subjects were monitored several nights both with and without the following devices: a tight-fitting facial mask, a pneumotachometer, and an esophageal balloon. they were also monitored with and without nasal continuous positive airway pressure. the multiple sleep latency test was administered after three of the experimental nights (after the baseline nights and after the second nasal cpap night). determination of short eeg arousals during nocturnal sleep, which lasted 2 to 10 s, was performed. the relationship between short eeg arousals, the esophageal pressure nadir, and airflow decrease was investigated. we also determined the relationship between clinical reporting of decrease in daytime alertness and mslt results, and the relationship between mslt results and the frequency of eeg arousals. the monitoring indicated that heavy snorers may present significant increase in pes nadir with abrupt decrease in flow leading to eeg arousals. the frequency at which eeg arousals occur has an impact on mslt scores. nasal cpap improves mslt scores and eliminates these respiration-related eeg arousals. some heavy snorers without obstructive sleep apnea syndrome may be at risk of having a decrease in daytime alertness.
lithiumogenic disorders of the thyroid and parathyroid glands as surgical disease. little notice has been paid in the surgical literature to problems with psychoeffective lithium, which by interfering with adenylate cyclase affects thyroid and parathyroid function, causing hypercalcemia, hyperparathyroidism, and hypothyroidism. seven patients with lithiumogenic hyperparathyroidism occurring after years of lithium therapy underwent treatment and manifested osteoporosis (n = 2), hypertension (n = 2), nephrolithiasis (n = 1), coma (n = 1), rising hypercalcemia (n = 1), goitrous myxedema (n = 4), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (n = 2), renal failure (n = 2), and hyperlipidemia (n = 1). disease-directed parathyroidectomy (without morbidity) was curative. unique laboratory findings included normal serum phosphorus and reduced urinary calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate values. three separate cases of thyroid carcinoma after long-term lithium therapy were also treated, being preceded by myxedema (n = 2) and concurrent with hyperparathyroidism (n = 1). there has been only one previous report of lithium-associated thyroid carcinoma. all patients taking lithium should undergo surveillance for thyroid and parathyroid dysfunction and neoplasia, and appropriate surgical and medical treatment should be considered in each situation. although hyperparathyroidism may be reversible with lithium discontinuance, such therapy may be obligatory for patient well-being, thus dictating parathyroidectomy.
reperfusion inhibits elevated splanchnic prostanoid production after hemorrhagic shock [published erratum appears in ann surg 1991 feb;213(2):91] the effect of reperfusion following hemorrhagic shock on splanchnic prostanoid release was studied. anesthetized male rats were bled to a mean arterial blood pressure of 30 mmhg for 30 minutes and either killed or treated with shed blood for 60 minutes and then killed. the superior mesenteric arterial bed was cannulated and perfused in vitro with oxygenated krebs. collected venous effluent (up to 180 minutes) was analyzed for 6-keto-pgf1 alpha (pgi2 metabolite), pge2, pgf2 alpha, and thromboxane b2 by radioimmunoassay in shock, shock plus reperfusion, and sham groups. the major prostanoid released was 6-keto-pgf1 alpha and was three times higher in the shock group compared to the sham group (p less than 0.05). reperfusion of shed blood abolished the increase in 6-keto-pgf1 alpha found in the shock group (p less than 0.05). these data show that the attempt of the rat splanchnic bed to compensate for hemorrhagic shock by increasing release of pgi2 (potent vasodilator) was abolished during reperfusion of blood.
radical resection for carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. one hundred four consecutive patients who underwent radical resection for ampullary cancer between 1965 and 1989 were retrospectively reviewed. frequent clinical findings included jaundice (67%), significant (greater than 10%) weight loss (42%), and anemia (27%). eighty-seven patients (84%) underwent a subtotal pancreatectomy, and 17 patients (16%) underwent a total pancreatectomy. the postoperative mortality was 5.7% (six patients), and reoperation for postoperative complications was required in six patients. the 5- and 10-year survival rates were 34% and 25%, respectively. eight patients died of tumor recurrence more than 5 years after resection. patient survival was significantly impaired by microscopic lymphatic invasion, regional nodal metastasis, tumor grade, and the epithelium of origin. in a multivariate analysis, only microscopic lymphatic invasion significantly reduced patient survival. radical resection for ampullary cancer can be performed with a low morbidity and mortality and should remain the procedure of choice for ampullary carcinoma.
regression of coronary artery disease as a result of intensive lipid-lowering therapy in men with high levels of apolipoprotein b background and methods. the effect of intensive lipid-lowering therapy on coronary atherosclerosis among men at high risk for cardiovascular events was assessed by quantitative arteriography. of 146 men no more than 62 years of age who had apolipoprotein b levels greater than or equal to 125 mg per deciliter, documented coronary artery disease, and a family history of vascular disease, 120 completed the 2 1/2-year double-blind study, which included arteriography at base line and after treatment. patients were given dietary counseling and were randomly assigned to one of three treatments: lovastatin (20 mg twice a day) and colestipol (10 g three times a day); niacin (1 g four times a day) and colestipol (10 g three times a day); or conventional therapy with placebo (or colestipol if the low-density lipoprotein [ldl] cholesterol level was elevated). results. the levels of ldl and high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol changed only slightly in the conventional-therapy group (mean changes, -7 and +5 percent, respectively), but more substantially among patients treated with lovastatin and colestipol (-46 and +15 percent) or niacin and colestipol (-32 and +43 percent). in the conventional-therapy group, 46 percent of the patients had definite lesion progression (and no regression) in at least one of nine proximal coronary segments; regression was the only change in 11 percent. by comparison, progression (as the only change) was less frequent among patients who received lovastatin and colestipol (21 percent) and those who received niacin and colestipol (25 percent), and regression was more frequent (lovastatin and colestipol, 32 percent; niacin and colestipol, 39 percent; p less than 0.005). multivariate analysis indicated that a reduction in the level of apolipoprotein b (or ldl cholesterol) and in systolic blood pressure, and an increase in hdl cholesterol correlated independently with regression of coronary lesions. clinical events (death, myocardial infarction, or revascularization for worsening symptoms) occurred in 10 of 52 patients assigned to conventional therapy, as compared with 3 of 46 assigned to receive lovastatin and colestipol and 2 of 48 assigned to receive niacin and colestipol (relative risk of an event during intensive treatment, 0.27; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.10 to 0.77). conclusions. in men with coronary artery disease who were at high risk for cardiovascular events, intensive lipid-lowering therapy reduced the frequency of progression of coronary lesions, increased the frequency of regression, and reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events.
a case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis the group b streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias, puerperal sepsis, and neonatal meningitis. group b streptococcal infections of muscle are rare. we report here an unusual case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis. pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by staphylococcus aureus and, occasionally, streptococcus pyogenes. because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates, the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms, and the frequently negative blood cultures, considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis; in fact, the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma, cellulitis, thrombophlebitis, osteomyelitis, or neoplasm. diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections. the response to antibiotics is usually rapid, but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses. this report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen.
surgical results of intrathoracic gastric volvulus complicating hiatal hernia. from 1981 to 1988, 138 patients with hiatal hernia were treated surgically at our centre. twenty-one (mean age 76.6 years, 17 women, four men) had an associated intrathoracic gastric volvulus. eleven patients (mean age 73.2 years), of whom eight were asymptomatic, had an elective procedure. ten patients (mean age 80.3 years) had emergency surgery, six for acute complications of the volvulus (five cases of strangulation and one of perforated ulcer) and four because of other, unrelated causes of acute abdomen. there were four deaths after operation, all in the emergency surgery group. four other patients had significant morbidity, all in the emergency group. in the elective cases, all hernias were easily reduced. in one emergency case a gastrotomy was necessary for decompression, and in another gastrectomy was necessary because of gastric gangrene. our results indicate the need for elective intervention when intrathoracic gastric volvulus is first diagnosed.
changes in haemostasis after stopping the combined contraceptive pill: implications for major surgery. objective--to investigate the changes in haemostasis in the three months immediately after stopping the combined contraceptive pill. design--prospective randomised study. setting--family planning centre in london. subjects--24 women aged 35-45 investigated before, during, and after six months' use of combined oral contraceptives containing 30 micrograms ethinyl oestradiol together with the progestogens desogestrel or gestodene. main outcome measures and results--blood samples were taken immediately before and after six months of oral contraceptive use and one, two, four, six, eight, and 12 weeks after the pill had been stopped. during the six months of oral contraceptive use the plasma concentration of factor x and fibrinogen increased and that of antithrombin iii decreased. between two and six weeks after stopping the pill a rebound phenomenon occurred with plasma concentrations of antithrombin iii increasing (mean change from baseline at two weeks 0.06 iu/l and at six weeks 0.10 iu/l) and fibrinogen decreasing (0.26 g/l change at two weeks and 0.40 g/l at six weeks). factor x concentrations fell gradually and the values at eight weeks were not significantly different from those found before the combined pill was started. conclusion--the combined pill should be stopped at least four weeks before major surgery, which carries the risk of postoperative thrombosis, to allow the potentially prothrombotic haemostatic changes that occur during its use to be corrected.
prevalence of acute mountain sickness in the swiss alps. objective--to assess the prevalence of symptoms and signs of acute mountain sickness of the swiss alps. design--a study using an interview and clinical examination in a representative population of mountaineers. positive symptoms and signs were assigned scores to quantify the severity of acute mountain sickness. setting--four huts in the swiss alps at 2850 m, 3050 m, 3650 m, and 4559 m. subjects--466 climbers, mostly recreational: 47 at 2850 m, 128 at 3050 m, 82 at 3650, and 209 at 4559 m. results--in all, 117 of the subjects were entirely free of symptoms and clinical signs of acute mountain sickness; 191 had one or two symptoms and signs; and 158 had more than two. those with more than two symptoms and signs were defined as suffering from acute mountain sickness. at 4559 m 11 climbers presented with high altitude pulmonary oedema or cerebral oedema, or both. men and women were equally affected. the prevalence of acute mountain sickness correlated with altitude: it was 9% at 2850 m, 13% at 3050 m, 34% at 3650 m, and 53% at 4559 m. the most frequent symptoms and signs were insomnia, headache, peripheral oedema, and scanty pulmonary rales. severe headache, vomiting, dizziness, tachypnoea, and pronounced pulmonary rales were associated with other symptoms and signs and therefore characteristic of acute mountain sickness. conclusion--acute mountain sickness is not an uncommon disease at moderately high altitude--that is, above 2800 m. severe headache, vomiting, dizziness, tachypnoea, and pronounced pulmonary rales indicate severe acute mountain sickness, and subjects who suffer these should immediately descend to lower altitudes.
fast short-tau inversion-recovery mr imaging. to enhance the versatility of the short-tau inversion-recovery (stir) sequences, the authors determined a range of repetition time (tr) and inversion time (ti) combinations that suppress signal intensity from fat by study of both patient and phantom images. to make fast stir images, variations in the following pulsing conditions were studied with use of an interactive computer program: decreasing the tr, limiting the number of excitations, and limiting the number of phase-encoding steps. the authors found that (a) stir imaging need not be time consuming, (b) fat suppression can be accomplished at shorter tr by using shorter ti, and (c) short-tr fast stir imaging is sensitive to enhancement with gadopentetate dimeglumine.
relationship of tumor-cell ploidy to histologic subtype and treatment outcome in children and adolescents with unresectable rhabdomyosarcoma [published erratum appears in j clin oncol 1991 may;9(5):893] clinical and histopathologic features are often inadequate for accurate prediction of relapse or survival of individual patients with rhabdomyosarcoma (rms). we therefore studied the cellular dna content (ploidy) of rms cells in relation to histology and response to therapy in 37 patients with unresectable tumors. using flow cytometric techniques, we found that about one third of patients had diploid tumor stem lines, regardless of the histologic subtype. in the group with abnormal ploidy, a hyperdiploid classification (1.10 to 1.80 times the dna content of normal diploid cells) was exclusively associated with embryonal histology (p = .001). by contrast, near-tetraploidy (1.80 to 2.60 times the dna content of normal cells) was strongly associated with alveolar histology (p = .001). thus, in these histologic subtypes of rms, abnormal ploidy appears to arise through different mechanisms. tumor-cell ploidy had a significant impact on survival that was especially apparent in patients with unresectable, nonmetastatic (group iii) tumors. in this subgroup, hyperdiploidy conferred the best prognosis and diploidy the worst (p less than .0001). none of the eight patients with diploid tumors survived for more than 18 months. tumor-cell ploidy was the best predictor of treatment outcome for patients with either embryonal (p less than .001; relative risk, 25.5) or alveolar (p = .073; relative risk 7.1) rms and contributed significantly after adjustment for disease stage and anatomic site. patients with unresectable diploid rms have an unacceptably high risk of treatment failure, justifying new therapeutic approaches for this distinct subgroup.
induction of donor-type chimerism in murine recipients of bone marrow allografts by different radiation regimens currently used in treatment of leukemia patients. three radiation protocols currently used in treatment of leukemia patients before bone marrow transplantation (bmt) were investigated in a murine model (c57bl/6----c3h/hej) for bm allograft rejection. these include (a) a single dose of total body irradiation (8.5 gy tbi delivered at a dose rate of 0.2 gy/min), (b) fractionated tbi (12 gy administered in six fractions, 2 gy twice a day in 3 days, delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 gy/min, and (c) hyperfractionated tbi (14.4 gy administered in 12 fractions, 1.2 gy three times a day in 3 days, delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 gy/min). donor-type chimerism 6 to 8 weeks after bmt and hematologic reconstitution on day 12 after bmt found in these groups were compared with results obtained in mice conditioned with 8 gy tbi delivered at a dose rate of 0.67 gy/min, routinely used in this murine model. the results in both parameters showed a marked advantage for the single dose 8.5 gy tbi over all the other treatments. this advantage was found to be equivalent to three- to fourfold increment in the bm inoculum when compared with hyperfractionated radiation, which afforded the least favorable conditions for development of donor-type chimerism. the fractionated radiation protocol was equivalent in its efficacy to results obtained in mice irradiated by single-dose 8 gy tbi, both of which afforded a smaller but not significant advantage over the hyperfractionated protocol. this model was also used to test the effect of radiation dose rate on the development of donor-type chimerism. a significant enhancement was found after an increase in dose rate from 0.1 to 0.7 gy/min. further enhancement could be achieved when the dose rate was increased to 1.3 gy/min, but survival at this high dose rate was reduced. these results demonstrated indirectly that dose rate affects the expression of host-type pluripotent stem cells, the progeny of which appear 3 to 6 weeks after treatment with 8 gy tbi delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 gy/min, but which are eradicated if radiation is delivered at a dose rate of 1.3 gy/min.
the effects of vitamin k on the generation of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (pivka-ii) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. the clinical significance of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (pivka-ii) in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) was investigated in 112 patients with and without vitamin k administration. the positivity rate of pivka-ii was significantly decreased in patients receiving vitamin k (28.5%), compared with those without vitamin k administration (54.5%, p less than 0.05). the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives [phylloquinone (vk1), menaquinone-4 (mk4), and menaquinone-7 (mk7)] measured were not decreased in patients with hcc, but were significantly increased in mk4 and vk1 + mk4 + mk7. the amount of pivka-ii in plasma did not correlate with the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives. however, pivka-ii was decreased by the administration of vitamin k, and all of the six patients with more than 5.0 ng/ml of vk1 + mk4 + mk7 were within normal limits, whereas half of 32 patients with less than that had abnormal levels of pivka-ii. thus, it was suggested that pivka-ii was not elevated due to vitamin k deficiency, but might result from the impaired metabolism or availability of vitamin k in the tumor. therefore, pivka-ii should be measured without vitamin k administration.
exocrine pancreatic function in chronic liver diseases. to confirm the respective influence of chronic alcoholism and liver disease on exocrine pancreatic function in cholecystokinin secretin (cs), tests were performed on patients with chronic liver cirrhosis (lc) and non-cirrhotic (nlc) disease of alcoholic (a) and nonalcoholic (na) etiology. results were compared in four subgroups (alc, n = 26; anlc, n = 45; nalc, n = 18; and nanlc, n = 43). volume of duodenal juice and bicarbonate output (bo) were increased and maximal bicarbonate concentration was decreased in alc, compared with those in normal controls. comparison of lc and nlc indicated that the volume, bo, and amylase output (ao) were greater in lc than in nlc of alcoholic etiology, but not in those of nonalcoholic etiology. the initial disappearance rate (kicg) of indocyanine green (icg) excretion correlated with a parameter of cs test in alcoholic liver disease (vs. volume: r = -0.51, p less than 0.01 vs bo: r = -0.40, p less than 0.01), but not in nonalcoholic liver disease. concurrent chronic pancreatitis with pain and definite exocrine insufficiency was observed in only one alc patient and in four anlc patients, but in none of the nonalcoholics. in alcoholic liver disease, exocrine pancreatic secretion tends to increase with severity of liver damage, but concurrence of definite chronic pancreatitis is not correlated with the severity.
a denaturated venous homograft as an alternative material for shunts and other reconstructions in congenital cardiac surgery. a human venous homograft "varivas r", in clinical use for 10 years for vascular access loops and femoropopliteal bypasses, has been used since december 1985 as a material for aortopulmonary shunts and other reconstructive procedures in congenital heart surgery. for this purpose vein segments 5 cm length, varying in diameter from 4 up to 10 mm by steps of 1 mm, were obtained. our experience with varivas is limited to 59 patients. of 47 infants, 18 received a left, and 25 a right sided aortopulmonary shunt, 9 had bilateral aortopulmonary shunts, 2 right ventricle pulmonary conduits, 1 a pulmonary-pulmonary conduit, 3 interrupted aortic arch reconstructions and 4 a central aortopulmonary shunt, 1 with confluence reconstruction, 3 recidives of coarctation a patch repair. among 11 adults 6 received coronary bypass and 6 others vascular reconstructions. in contrast to other artificial graft materials, the vein material offers easy manipulation similar to the daily routine of handling fresh vein material offers easy manipulation similar to the daily routine of handling fresh vein grafts in coronary surgery. the appropriate diameter sizes match better the infants anatomy, without the risk of kinking and/or anastomosis displacement. peroperatively it was possible to confirm patency by electromagnetic flow measurement and the postoperative examinations were done by colour doppler echocardiography. we had to reoperate upon 4 infants because of early thrombosis; on 1 infant for stenosis of the graft and on another 5 for late thrombosis. in an attempt to extend the indications for "inoperable" pulmonary hypoplasia/atresia we were not able to keep the shunt open in 4 infants.
atrial fibrillation and left atrial enlargement: cause or effect? in a blinded controlled study, 58 consecutive patients with definite left atrial enlargement (m-mode dimension of at least 45 mm) were followed up after 1-2 years. the aim of the study was to examine the following: (a) the prospective risk of developing atrial fibrillation (af); and (b) the effect of the heart rhythm on the left atrial size. of 36 patients in sinus rhythm, one developed paroxysmal af and one developed persistent af during a median follow-up period of 20 months. thus the incidence of new af was 5% per year. eighteen patients died before scheduled echocardiographic follow-up, but in the remaining subjects the left atrial dimension did not change significantly: the median increment was 1 mm in 20 patients who sustained sinus rhythm vs 2 mm in 16 patients with chronic af (p greater than 0.05). although left atrial dilatation may cause af and vice versa, this study demonstrated that the incidence of new af is low, despite the fact that the left atrial dimension is substantially increased. similarly, af per se does not appear to have any major impact on the left atrial dimension.
medical management of acute traumatic rupture of the aorta. surgical reconstruction is the treatment for acute traumatic aortic rupture and should be accomplished immediately in most patients. in patients in whom concomitant injuries or the development of life-threatening complications preclude safe and successful aortic reconstruction, pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of free aortic rupture may be considered. surgical reconstruction can then be more safely performed under controlled elective circumstances.
the deja vu experience: remembrance of things past? the deja vu experience is a common phenomenon, occurring in pathological as well as nonpathological conditions. it has been defined as any subjectively inappropriate impression of familiarity of a present experience with an undefined past. the authors discuss the epidemiologic data, clinical features, and etiology of the phenomenon of deja vu. they also review the different hypotheses on the psychopathogenesis of the deja vu experience and introduce an explanation based on the hologram as a mnestic model.
effects of head trauma from motor vehicle accidents on parkinson's disease. during 1 year we monitored changes in clinical disability scores in 10 patients with parkinson's disease (pd) who sustained head trauma from motor vehicle accidents. disability significantly increased immediately after trauma, but returned to baseline levels in subsequent weeks. these patients' signs deteriorated over the subsequent year, but this decline was equivalent to that of a matched control group with pd who did not have a motor vehicle accident or trauma. based on these data, we conclude that trauma or stress caused by motor vehicle accidents can transiently exacerbate parkinsonian dysfunction without causing persistent increased disability or an alteration in disease course.
renal cell carcinoma associated with sarcoidlike tissue reaction. a 60-year-old man was referred to our institution with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. because of several months' complaint of right flank pain and weight loss, the patient had consulted his local physician. after an extensive workup revealed only cholelithiasis, he underwent a cholecystectomy for presumed chronic cholecystitis. at the time of operation, biopsy of several liver nodules and peripancreatic nodes revealed noncaseating granulomas, consistent with sarcoidosis. on initial examination at our institution, the patient had microhematuria. a chest roentgenogram demonstrated multiple pulmonary nodules, an abdominal computed tomographic scan showed an indeterminate left renal mass, and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed abnormal signals in the body of t-12. open-lung biopsy showed an adenocarcinoma with clear cell features, likely of renal origin. the patient was diagnosed as having a metastatic renal carcinoma associated with a sarcoidlike tissue reaction. although noncaseating granulomas have been reported in association with other malignant lesions, to our knowledge this is the first report of such an association with renal carcinoma. in addition, this case illustrates several points. first, sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder with protean extrapulmonary manifestations. in fact, all our patient's findings could have been attributed to sarcoidosis. second, noncaseating granulomas occur with many types of processes, including infections, chemical exposures, and, as in this case, neoplasms. thus, noncaseating granulomas are not pathognomonic for sarcoidosis. third, sarcoidosis is a clinical diagnosis that cannot be based on histologic findings alone.
allergen-induced increase in airway responsiveness and inflammation in mild asthma. the relationship between airway responsiveness to methacholine and inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) was determined in patients with history of rhinitis and/or mild bronchial asthma either at baseline (10 patients) or 3-4 h after allergen inhalation challenge (11 patients). at baseline, airway responsiveness did not correlate with any bal cell population. when data obtained after allergen challenge were included in the analysis, 44% of the variability of airway responsiveness was explained by a multiple regression model with bal eosinophils as a directly correlated (p = 0.002) independent variable and with bal macrophages as an inversely correlated (p = 0.045) independent variable. changes in airway responsiveness after allergen challenge were predicted (82% of variance explained) by a model with bal eosinophils and bal lymphocytes as directly correlated (p = 0.0002 and p = 0.03, respectively) independent variables. we conclude that, in stable asymptomatic asthma, baseline airway responsiveness does not correlate with the presence in the airways of inflammatory and immunoeffector cells that can be recovered by bal. nevertheless the allergen-induced increase in airway responsiveness is associated with an influx of eosinophils and lymphocytes in the bronchial lumen.
leukemias of indeterminant lineage. two biologically and clinically important forms of acute leukemia have been described. evidence suggests that both undifferentiated acute leukemia and many types of hybrid leukemia arise from relatively fewer differentiated cells than do the more straightforward acute leukemias. clinical correlations suggest that patients with these leukemias may have a poorer prognosis, although some findings may be associated with an improved prognosis. more data in which multiple techniques are applied to the same leukemic cells are clearly needed. patients with certain types of hybrid leukemias may be suitable candidates for more aggressive forms of chemotherapy or, possibly, combinations of therapy directed at cells of both lineages.
32-gauge spinal catheters through 26-gauge needles small diameter intrathecal catheters potentially combine the certainty of intrathecal injection and the advantage of repeatability, without the risk of a high incidence of headache after dural puncture. we report problems placing such catheters.
lovastatin. warfarin interaction. two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described. because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin, heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized. therefore, prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin.
lack of association between keratoconus, mitral valve prolapse, and joint hypermobility. the authors enrolled 95 patients with keratoconus and 96 matched controls in a cross-sectional study to determine if mitral valve prolapse and hypermobile joints occur with greater frequency in individuals with keratoconus than in individuals without keratoconus. the hypothesis that keratoconus may not be a distinct eye disease, but a nonspecific sign representing a more generalized systemic disorder, possibly a mild collagen tissue abnormality, was considered. m-mode and two dimensional echocardiography and cardiac auscultation detected no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of mitral valve prolapse in patients with keratoconus compared with controls. formal, systematic examination of five joints also failed to detect a statistically significant difference in the prevalence of hypermobile joints in keratoconus patients and controls. however, as an ancillary finding, a significantly higher proportion of patients with keratoconus was found to have a history of hay fever than was the case with controls.
role of new antiplatelet agents as adjunctive therapies in thrombolysis. coronary thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for patients with acute q-wave myocardial infarcts who have no contraindications to such therapy. however, the time required for thrombolysis and the possibility of reocclusion of the infarct-related artery remain problematic. herein are described experimental animal studies and clinical evaluations in which attempts have been made to develop adjunctive therapies that, when coupled with available thrombolytic interventions, might shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent reocclusion. from the studies conducted to date, it is clear that a combined thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist and heparin shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models with copper coil-induced coronary artery thrombi. a monoclonal antibody to the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia receptor coupled with tissue plasminogen activator (t-pa) and heparin also shortens the time to thrombolysis and delays or prevents reocclusion in experimental canine models. thrombin inhibitors, including heparin and synthetic inhibitors, given with t-pa and aspirin, appear to shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models. aspirin coupled with intravenous streptokinase reduces mortality in patients with presumed acute myocardial infarction, and a combination of heparin and t-pa results in infarct-artery patency more frequently than t-pa without heparin. data from these studies are encouraging with regard to the possibility of developing effective and relatively safe thrombolytic regimens that shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion.
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka, bangladesh. this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) and diarrhea in dhaka, bangladesh, and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens. the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia (374 cases), bronchiolitis (12 cases), and tracheobronchitis (11 cases). the majority (77%) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age, and 88% of the children were malnourished. a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30% of the patients, and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34%. the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8%. the case-fatality rate was 14% in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea, 3% in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea, and 14% in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri. the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus, streptococcus pneumoniae, influenza viruses, and haemophilus influenzae type b.
delayed reconstruction following mohs' chemosurgery for skin cancers of the head and neck. the case records of 52 patients with 55 cutaneous neoplasms treated by mohs' chemosurgery and subsequently reconstructed by plastic surgeons were reviewed to determine if delay between resection and reconstruction adversely affected the outcome of reconstruction. reconstruction was performed from 5 to 61 days after mohs' chemosurgery for 45 basal cell carcinomas and 10 other cutaneous neoplasms. there were no complications during the interval between resection and reconstruction. following reconstruction, minor wound complications occurred in 6% of patients; there were no major complications. microscopic examination of the re-excised wound revealed residual disease in 2 of 45 cases of basal cell carcinoma and 0 of 10 other cutaneous malignancies. both patients with residual basal cell carcinomas (i.e., false-negative margins after mohs' surgery) had presented to the mohs' surgeon with recurrent tumors. during a follow-up period of 3 months to 3 years after complete resection, recurrent tumor developed in 2 of 45 cases of basal cell carcinoma and 3 of 8 cases of squamous cell carcinoma. delayed reconstruction, usually 5 to 20 days after mohs' chemosurgery, can be performed without significant morbidity. re-excision of the mohs' chemosurgical wound for pathologic examination can detect residual disease and may be especially indicated for large recurrent wounds.
effect of tachycardia on regional function and transmural myocardial perfusion during graded coronary pressure reduction in conscious dogs the purpose of the present study was to examine subendocardial flow and function during graded coronary pressure reduction to determine the effect of tachycardia on the lower autoregulatory pressure limit (critical coronary pressure) in unanesthetized dogs. during atrial pacing at a rate of 200 beats/min, subendocardial flow measured by radioactive microspheres averaged 1.55 +/- 0.34 ml/min/g and remained unchanged as pressure was reduced over the autoregulatory plateau from 84 +/- 10 to 59 +/- 7 mm hg. further reductions in coronary pressure to below a critical coronary pressure of approximately 60 mm hg were associated with concomitant reductions in subendocardial flow and the endocardial-epicardial flow ratio during tachycardia. although regional function remained constant over the autoregulatory plateau, there was a rightward shift of the coronary pressure-function relation during ischemia in response to a steady-state increase in rate from 100 to 200 beats/min. reductions in regional wall thickening began when coronary pressures reached 38 +/- 7 mm hg at a heart rate of 100 beats/min and 61 +/- 6 mm hg at a heart rate of 200 beats/min (p less than 0.005). similar critical coronary pressure values were obtained for subendocardial segment shortening. relations between subendocardial flow and myocardial function measured by both transmural wall thickening and subendocardial segment shortening were linear during pacing at a heart rate of 200 beats/min with relative reductions in wall thickening related to reductions in subendocardial flow on a nearly one-to-one basis. the results of this study demonstrate that there is a shift in the lower limit of subendocardial autoregulation during tachycardia as manifest by the onset of subendocardial ischemia at a higher distal coronary artery pressure. the shift in critical coronary pressure relates to an increase in resting flow requirements due to increased demand and diminished subendocardial vasodilator reserve at any given coronary pressure secondary to a reduction in the time available for diastolic subendocardial perfusion during tachycardia.
reference ranges for lymphocyte subsets. a comparison of standard vs rapid whole-blood lysis techniques. reference ranges for lymphocyte subsets may vary with processing techniques, monoclonal reagents, or analytic methods. we compared reference ranges obtained for t- and b-lymphocyte subsets by means of standard manual whole-blood lysis with a wash step vs a rapid, no-wash whole-blood lysis system. both techniques demonstrated reference ranges similar to those in previous literature reports. the ranges established with standard and rapid lysis were similar when antibodies directed to the same cluster designation were used. although slight statistical differences in relative percentages of cd2 and cd3 lymphocytes were observed, these differences were probably not clinically significant. these data indicate that the rapid technique provides a standardized method for enumerating t and b lymphocytes in peripheral blood.
development of a special care unit for chronically critically ill patients. intensive care units (icus) are recognized as one of the most expensive services provided by hospitals. within these icus are a growing population of patients whose stays are extensively prolonged because of complications or underlying chronic health conditions that are exacerbated by a critical illness. these patients can be described as "chronically critically ill" and are costly to hospitals both in terms of actual dollars and in terms of the burden of care to nurses and physicians. this article describes the creation of a special care unit (scu) designed specifically to meet the needs of chronically critically ill patients. the scu environment is composed of a physical design that accommodates limited technology and care aimed at family involvement and rehabilitation, a case management practice model, and a shared governance management model. this structure is in contrast to traditional icu environments, which include physical layouts that allow for high technology and close monitoring of patients, a primary nursing delivery system, and a bureaucratic management model. a research project to compare the effects of the scu with the effects of the traditional icus on nurse and patient outcomes is described.
percutaneous extraction of fractured guidewire from distal right coronary artery. the incidence of retained hardware components in the coronary artery tree is likely to parallel the growing number and types of percutaneous coronary revascularization procedures being performed. management has extended from the conservative option of simply leaving behind the retained components to the more aggressive approach of surgical removal. a percutaneous method is described herein which offers the interventional cardiologist an alternative method of managing patients with retained wire fragments contained entirely in the coronary artery.
late cardiac effects of doxorubicin therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood background. cardiotoxicity is a recognized complication of doxorubicin therapy, but the long-term effects of doxorubicin are not well documented. we therefore assessed the cardiac status of 115 children who had been treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia with doxorubicin 1 to 15 years earlier in whom the disease was in continuous remission. methods. eighteen patients received one dose of doxorubicin (45 mg per square meter of body-surface area), and 97 received multiple doses totaling 228 to 550 mg per square meter (median, 360). the median interval between the end of treatment and the cardiac evaluation was 6.4 years. our evaluation consisted of a history, 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recording, exercise testing, and echocardiography. results. fifty-seven percent of the patients had abnormalities of left ventricular afterload (measured as end-systolic wall stress) or contractility (measured as the stress-velocity index). the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was the most significant predictor of abnormal cardiac function (p less than 0.002). seventeen percent of patients who received one dose of doxorubicin had slightly elevated age-adjusted afterload, and none had decreased contractility. in contrast, 65 percent of patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter had increased afterload (59 percent of patients), decreased contractility (23 percent), or both. increased afterload was due to reduced ventricular wall thickness, not to hypertension or ventricular dilatation. in multivariate analyses restricted to patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter, the only significant predictive factors were a higher cumulative dose (p = 0.01), which predicted decreased contractility, and an age of less than four years at treatment (p = 0.003), which predicted increased afterload. afterload increased progressively in 24 of 34 patients evaluated serially (71 percent). reported symptoms correlated poorly with indexes of exercise tolerance or ventricular function. eleven patients had congestive heart failure within one year of treatment with doxorubicin; five of them had recurrent heart failure 3.7 to 10.3 years after completing doxorubicin treatment, and two required heart transplantation. no patient had late heart failure as a new event. conclusions. doxorubicin therapy in childhood impairs myocardial growth in a dose-related fashion and results in a progressive increase in left ventricular afterload sometimes accompanied by reduced contractility. we hypothesize that the loss of myocytes during doxorubicin therapy in childhood might result in inadequate left ventricular mass and clinically important heart disease in later years.
a multicenter study of doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in france. this study was designed to assess the efficacy and tolerance of doxazosin in patients with mild, moderate, or severe essential hypertension in a general practice setting. ninety-six adults of a mean age of 55 1/2 years took part in the 14-week study, consisting of a placebo phase (2 weeks), a dose-adjustment phase with doxazosin (8 weeks), and a maintenance phase (4 weeks). doxazosin, at a final mean daily dose of 3.4 mg, produced a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in blood pressure at all points of measurement during the study. the mean change in sitting blood pressure at the end of treatment was -15.4/-15.8 mm hg. of the 85 patients who could be categorized as a success or failure, 78 (92%) were considered a therapeutic success; 78 (89%) of the 88 efficacy-evaluable patients demonstrated an improvement in the severity category of their hypertension. treatment with doxazosin produced a reduction in serum cholesterol (-3.1%) and triglyceride (-3.8%) levels, although these changes did not attain statistical significance. the calculated probability of developing coronary heart disease in 10 years (according to the framingham equation) was significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced by 22%, from 16.7 chances per 100 (baseline) to 14.3 chances per 100 (final visit). twenty-six patients (27.1%) reported side effects that were possibly related to treatment, the most prevalent of which were vertigo (7.3%) and headache (6.3%). in four (4.2%) patients the dose of doxazosin was reduced and two (2.1%) were withdrawn prematurely. the investigator's assessments of tolerance was reduced and two (2.1%) were considered to be excellent or good in 85 (88%) patients.
rehabilitation of physically disabled dentists: a model for a vocationally specific rehabilitation program. a unique collaborative program whose goal is to facilitate the return of disabled dentists to active dental practice is described. this approach includes comprehensive interdisciplinary evaluation and remediation, and it has succeeded in revealing previously undiagnosed impairments which should be considered in the formulation of a rehabilitation plan. a case report illustrates the process. this program can serve as a model for similar programs addressing the needs of other disabled health care professionals.
intussusception and the diagnostic value of testing stool for occult blood. a retrospective review was performed to determine the diagnostic value of testing for occult blood in stool of children suspect for intussusception. ninety-six children had barium enema studies for suspected intussusception. of the 57 children who had barium enema confirmed intussusception, 29 did not have history or physical findings of gross blood per rectum. stool was tested for occult blood in 16 of these 29 patients, and 12 (75%) were positive. in comparison, three (20%) of the children who did not have intussusception had stool positive for occult blood. stool with occult blood was significantly associated with intussusception (p less than .002). the only other clinical factor significantly associated with intussusception was abdominal mass (p less than .02). vomiting, episodic irritability, poor feeding, abdominal pain and lethargy were not significantly different in the two groups. in conclusion, the authors suggest stool testing for occult blood when evaluating children who present with nonspecific signs and symptoms supportive of intussusception.
pulmonary resection combined with cardiac operations. surgical management of patients with concomitant critical cardiac disease and resectable lung lesions is controversial. during a 7-year period (1982 to 1988), 21 patients underwent combined cardiac and pulmonary operations. patients had cardiac symptoms only; the lung lesions were found on preoperative chest roentgenograms. the pathological diagnosis was established in only 2 of the patients before operation. all underwent concurrent pulmonary resection during cardiac operations requiring extracorporeal circulation. the pulmonary operations included 17 wedge resections and four lobectomies. the final diagnoses in 8 patients with stage i non-small cell lung cancer included epidermoid carcinoma (4), adenocarcinoma (3), and bronchoalveolar carcinoma (1). postoperatively, 1 patient required a permanent pacemaker and 1 patient died. the actuarial survival at 5 years for all patients who underwent combined procedures was 95%. the 5-year survival for the 8 patients with lung cancer was 88% compared with 100% for those with benign pulmonary pathology (p = 0.172). this experience suggests that combining pulmonary resection with cardiac operations is safe and offers a favorable prognosis to a select group of patients.
regional chemotherapy for colorectal liver metastases: a phase ii evaluation of targeted hepatic arterial 5-fluorouracil for colorectal liver metastases. the results of systemic chemotherapy in patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer remain dismal. regional chemotherapy has been advocated as a method of improving the delivery of cytotoxic drugs to tumour, while minimizing systemic toxicity. the use of vasoactive agents to redistribute arterial blood flow towards tumour, and of biodegradable microspheres to slow tumour blood flow, have also been suggested as methods of further improving tumour exposure to drug. we present 21 patients who received intrahepatic arterial chemotherapy for colorectal liver metastases. combined treatment (angiotensin ii, albumin microspheres and 5-fluorouracil) was administered 4-6 weekly, and bolus 5-fluorouracil was given in the intervening weeks. toxicity was minimal. responses were seen in seven patients. fewer than half of the deaths were from liver metastases; a quarter of the patients died from non-cancer-related causes. survival was prolonged in the treated group compared with historical controls. these results suggest that this regimen has activity in patients with colorectal liver metastases.
expression of blood group antigens by normal bronchopulmonary tissues and common forms of pulmonary carcinomas. the expression of abh and lewis antigens has been studied in a series of pulmonary carcinomas, in areas of squamous metaplasia, and in normal adjacent bronchopulmonary tissues by means of a panel of lectins and monoclonal antibodies. all respiratory epithelial cells can express antigens, with the exception of glandular serous cells. the expression of ab antigens is rather homogeneous, while lewis antigens are expressed in a more irregular pattern, alternating positively stained cells with negatively stained cells in the same microscopic field. the expression of blood group antigens allows the identification of residual pneumocytes inside the tumor and the proper classification of some neoplasms. metaplastic areas show a variation in the staining profile when compared with normal tissues and pulmonary carcinomas. the most significant findings are the deletion of a antigen and the strong expression of le antigen. pulmonary carcinomas are composed by a heterogeneous population and tend to express antigens in the more differentiated cases or areas. the most important findings are the deletion of ab antigens and the strong expression of le(y) antigen.
preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of fibroepithelial polyp of the renal pelvis: a case report and review of the literature. benign fibroepithelial polyps of the renal pelvis are rare, with only 9 cases described previously in the literature. we report an additional case and suggest how nephrectomy may be avoided.
molecular surgery of the basement membrane by the argon laser. although the argon laser is used successfully to weld a number of different tissues, the underlying chemical and cellular mechanisms for this process are not precisely defined. consequently, a biochemical model has been developed in vitro using the well-defined extracellular matrix from the murine engelbreth-holm-swarm (ehs) sarcoma. control and experimental samples of ehs basement membranes were irradiated with a trimedyne argon laser at 500-3,000 joules/cm2 at 0 degrees c. the samples were diluted into cold phosphate-buffered saline and allowed to gel at 35 degrees c. the time course of the gelation reaction was followed in a spectrophotometer at 360 nm. irradiation reduced the absorbance 7.5-15% compared to controls and was independent of the dilution over a 10-fold range. gelation was also measured by determining the amount of protein by the bradford assay that could be collected by centrifugation at 10,000g for 10 minutes. argon-irradiated samples had 30-40% less protein in the precipitate than the controls. the addition of 5 mm beta-mercaptoethanol to the ehs extract blocked the effect of the laser on the gelation reaction. in addition, when gelation was carried out in the absence of calcium and magnesium, there were no differences between laser-treated samples and controls. the basement membrane proteins were separated by electrophoresis through polyacrylamide gels under denaturing plus reducing or denaturing and non-reducing conditions. no differences in the polypeptide composition were noted between irradiated and control samples using either coomassie- or silver-staining techniques.
exposure histories in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia patients with a prior preleukemic condition. a subset of patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) have evidence of a myelodysplastic syndrome (mds), low infiltrate leukemia, or other preleukemic condition that may be present for several months before onset of disease. the hypothesis that these conditions act as markers for environmentally induced cancer was examined in 270 anll patients, 46 with a preleukemic phase and 224 with an acute onset. although the effects of previously identified risk factors (male sex, age older than 50 years, prior cytotoxic therapy) were demonstrated, no associations with common environmental conditions (cigarette smoking, alcohol use, occupations with exposure to chemicals or radiation) were present with the exception of hobbies involving potential chemical exposure, odds ratio (or) and 95% confidence intervals = 4.2 (1.4 to 12.3) and self-reported exposure to pesticides, or = 10.2 (1.8 to 63.1). these may be chance associations although a previous case-control study of mds reported similar findings.
the impact of microinvasion on axillary node metastases and survival in patients with intraductal breast cancer. a rational approach to the local treatment of intraductal breast cancer continues to generate considerable debate. however, the finding of an invasive component in intraductal breast cancer is widely regarded as an appropriate indication for axillary node dissection as part of the local treatment and staging of this disease. despite this view, the natural history of patients with intraductal breast cancer with foci of microinvasion is poorly defined. between 1965 and 1988, 41 patients with this pathologic finding of intraductal carcinoma with foci of microinvasion were seen at the ucla medical center. twenty-three patients presented with mammographic abnormalities, while 17 patients presented with a palpable mass. one patient presented with paget's disease of the nipple. thirty-three patients underwent axillary node dissection as part of their local treatment. no lymph node metastases were identified. the median follow-up in 37 patients was 47 months. there have been no local recurrences and no deaths from recurrent breast cancer. intraductal breast cancer associated with microinvasion appears to be an extremely favorable lesion with minimal risk of nodal metastases.
interaction of two different disorders in the beta-globin gene cluster associated with an increased hemoglobin f production: a novel deletion type of g gamma + (a gamma delta beta)zero-thalassemia and a delta zero-hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin determinant. we report two different disorders of the beta-globin gene cluster segregating in a belgian family: a novel deletion that results in g gamma + (a gamma delta beta)zero-thalassemia (thal) and a heterocellular hereditary persistence of foetal hemoglobin of the swiss type linked to a delta degree-thal gene (delta degree-hpfh). heterozygosity for the heterocellular hpfh brings about a moderate (3.4% to 8.24%) increase of hemoglobin (hb) f having a g gamma/a gamma ratio of 4:1, whereas carriers of the g gamma + (a gamma delta beta)zero-thal deletion show in their peripheral blood a considerably higher (15%) percentage of hb f. both defects interact in the compound heterozygotes for g gamma + (a gamma delta beta)zero-thal and delta zero-hpfh producing a further increase (up to 24%) of fetal hb consisting entirely of g gamma chains. molecular characterization of the g gamma + (a gamma delta beta)zero-thal by means of southern analysis showed that the deletion spans about 50 kb, removing the 3' end of the a gamma-gene, the psi beta-, delta-, and beta-genes. a number of possible mechanisms leading to the overproduction of hb f in hpfh and g gamma + (a gamma delta beta)zero-thal will be discussed.
the diagnosis and definition of hepatic malignancies by use of arterial enhanced computerized tomographic scanning. axial computerized tomography is a useful tool in the evaluation of either primary or metastatic hepatic neoplasms. an adjunct to this technique is visceral arterial enhanced computerized tomography (aect). to determine the effectiveness of this modality, bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography scans and aect were compared and correlated to operative findings. fifty-four consecutive patients were evaluated by aect and bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography over a 30-month period (may 1986 to august 1989) for suspected primary or metastatic hepatic malignancies. forty-four patients (81%) had hepatic lesions. fifty-two percent (23 of 44 patients) of the metastatic tumors were from colonic or rectal primary lesions, and 20% were hepatocellular primary lesions. the remainder of the lesions were metastases from a variety of primary lesions. when studies were compared, 34% of the patients (15 of 44 patients) differed in either the location or total number of lesions noted. the lesions of three of the 15 patients (20%) were determined unresectable on the basis of aect. of the remaining patients, planned resections were revised in seven patients to either lesser or greater procedures. the number of lesions found at laparotomy equaled the number found by aect in all but two cases. aect caused no complications. aect improved our ability to identify and localize primary and metastatic lesions of the liver. this technique offers the advantage of preoperative definition of the hepatic arterial and portal venous anatomy.
evolution of human cardiac myocyte dimension during prolonged mechanical support. in animal models using left ventricular assist systems over long time periods, myocardial cellular atrophy has been reported, raising concern that prolonged clinical use of such systems might lead to deterioration in left ventricular function. at the university of pittsburgh, long-term clinical use of the novacor (baxter healthcare corp., novacor div., oakland, calif.) left ventricular support system for patients awaiting heart transplants has allowed study of the effects of long-term mechanical support on human subjects. this study determined that cardiac myocyte dimension is initially greater in patients with end-stage cardiac disease who require support rather than in patients with the same disease who do not require such support. although myocyte dimension does decrease within a few days of the inception of support, this decrease merely brings cell size closer to the values usual in patients with chronic end-stage cardiac disease, and no further shrinkage is observed. thus the novacor left ventricular assist system does not appear associated with left ventricular atrophy, and its long-term use may not be detrimental to left ventricular function.
time of onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmia in relation to alcohol consumption. it is widely believed but has never been proved that idiopathic supraventricular tachyarrhythmias beginning during or after weekends or winter holidays are frequently alcohol-related ("holiday heart" syndrome). the time of arrhythmia onset was therefore studied in relation to self-reported ethanol consumption and results of a screening test for alcoholism (cage questionnaire) in 289 patients aged less than 65 years admitted for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. there were 102 patients having an etiologically idiopathic arrhythmia with a known time of onset. among them, but not among those with disease-related arrhythmias, patients with arrhythmic episodes beginning on saturdays or on sundays were more often chronic alcohol abusers (9 of 19, 47%) than either patients with episodes beginning from mondays through fridays (18 of 83, 22%; p = 0.040) or control subjects from the out-of-hospital population (8 of 66, 12%; p = 0.002). in multivariate analysis, the time of arrhythmia onset was related to the cage response (g2 = 6.0, p = 0.014) but not to the most recent ethanol use. however, the increased frequency of problem drinkers among patients with weekend-onset idiopathic arrhythmias was only relative, and resulted from a decreased number of abstainers and non-problem drinkers. no conspicuous clustering of alcohol-related arrhythmias was seen after new year's or may day. thus, although the present study confirms an association between heavy drinking and idiopathic arrhythmias beginning during weekends, it shows that the question may be of a relative rather than an absolute overrepresentation. the term holiday heart may also be somewhat misleading since no postholiday accumulation of alcohol-related arrhythmias was found.
a novel treatment for ischemic intracranial hypertension in cats. there is no accepted efficacious treatment for ischemic cerebral edema. we show in a cat model of focal cerebral ischemia that infarct volume can be reduced (p less than 0.05) by ventriculocisternal perfusion with an oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion (bis-perfluorobutylethylene). an accompanying effect of such ventriculocisternal perfusion is a reduction in intracranial pressure. at 18 hours following the start of the perfusion, there was a significant (p less than 0.05) difference in intracranial pressure between nonperfused controls (mean 11.4 [range 2.3-23.0] torr, n = 6) and cats perfused with an oxygenated nutrient solution not containing fluorochemical (mean 11.3 [range 3.0-29.0] torr, n = 8) or animals perfused with the oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion (mean 2.21 [range 0-3.5] torr, n = 7). perfusion with this oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion warrants further study as a treatment for elevated intracranial pressure.
initial ct findings in 753 patients with severe head injury. a report from the nih traumatic coma data bank. in this prospective multicenter study, the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography (ct) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury. when the ct findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death, the most important characteristics of the scans were: midline shift: compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns: and the presence of subarachnoid blood. diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension.
development of multiple necrotizing enteritis induced by a tumor necrosis factor-like cytokine from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated peritoneal macrophages in rats. we report the development of an animal model of multiple necrotizing enteritis (mne) in rats. when rats were injected directly with a culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide (lps)-stimulated rat peritoneal macrophages into the abdominal aorta, the overt pathologic lesions of mne developed within 30 minutes after injection. the rats showed an elevated level of blood fibrinogen degradation product content even 30 minutes after injection. furthermore the rats that were pretreated intravenously with heparin sulfate did not develop mne, indicating the acute disturbances of blood microcirculation in the intestine. multiple necrotizing enteritis was developed also by the injection with recombinant tumor necrosis factor (rtnf) but rarely was observed with even a high dose of recombinant interleukin-1 (ril-1) or platelet-activating factor (paf). the supernatant was cytotoxic in vitro to tnf-susceptible lm and many other cells but was less cytotoxic to the tnf-resistant lr line. partial purification of the supernatant suggested that the supernatant contained a cytokine that has biochemical features of tnf. furthermore polyclonal anti-tnf antibody could inhibit not only the cytotoxicity in vitro but also mne development in vivo by this factor. these data strongly indicate that mne possibly could be caused by a tnf-like cytokine produced by macrophages that are stimulated by the endotoxin.
role of oxygen free radicals in ischemic and reperfused myocardium. in recent years there has been considerable interest concerning the role of oxygen radicals in myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury. the sequential univalent reduction of oxygen gives rise to very reactive intermediate products. normally, the tissue concentration of these intermediate products of oxygen is limited and the aerobic myocardium survives because of the existence of a delicate balance between the generation of the various oxidants and the maintenance of the antioxidant defense mechanism. several possible sources have been identified for the production of active oxygen species after ischemia and reperfusion and these sources may be mutually interactive. the ability of scavengers of oxygen free radicals, including vitamin e, to improve mechanical, mitochondrial, and sarcoplasmic reticulum function in animal models of ischemic-reperfusion injury also suggests that oxygen free radicals are partly responsible for myocardial damage in these models, although caution in the interpretation of these data is necessary.
brain stem tuberculoma in adult patients: diagnosis and treatment. a consecutive series of six adult patients ranging in age from 29 to 53 years is presented. the clinical and radiological features in each patient are described. attention is drawn to the features demonstrated on computed axial tomography. in only one patient, the first encountered, was surgical excision undertaken and histological verification obtained. one patient died before any form of treatment could be instituted. the remaining four patients were treated with antituberculous chemotherapy alone and their progress monitored by sequential computed tomography. the excellent response and good outcome in this conservatively treated group are documented.
research and policy directions. salt and blood pressure. the relation between dietary intake of sodium chloride and blood pressure levels remains controversial. the critical questions concern whether there is a susceptible subgroup at risk of elevated blood pressure because of sodium chloride consumption. if there is such a subgroup, what is its size and how can it be identified? further clinical trials are needed to determine the long-term effects of sodium chloride reduction on blood pressure. the risk of disease, including stroke and coronary heart disease, is linear with blood pressure levels. a small change in blood pressure can have a relatively large impact on disease, even within the normal range of blood pressure.
local reactions to radioiodine in the treatment of thyroid cancer. purpose: to compare the rate of local complications resulting from radioiodine ablation of thyroid cancer in patients with a residual intact thyroid lobe to that in patients who had more extensive surgical treatment prior to radioiodine administration. patients and methods: we retrospectively studied 59 patients who had received 131i between 1979 and 1989. the patients were divided into two groups, depending on the extent of their previous surgical thyroid excision. group 1 comprised 10 patients with a lobectomy or hemithyroidectomy before the ablative radioiodine dose, and group 2 comprised 49 patients with more extensive thyroid excision (near-total or subtotal thyroidectomy) before the radioiodine treatment. results: sixty percent of the 10 patients in group 1 experienced some degree of neck pain or tenderness following radioiodine ablation of their residual thyroid. in one case, the local reaction was very severe and accompanied by the development of transient hyperthyroidism. there was only a 6% local complication rate in the patients who had undergone more extensive thyroid excision before ablative therapy (p less than 0.001), and none had a severe reaction. conclusions: patients with only unilateral surgical excision before radioiodine therapy have a higher rate of local complications than do patients treated with more extensive surgery prior to radioiodine ablation. if radioiodine is to be employed in such patients, they should be informed of this possible complication. since evidence supports a dose effect in the pathogenesis of the complications, we recommend using a dose of less than 30 mci for the initial ablation in these patients even though it may be necessary to repeat this dose to complete thyroid ablation.
herniation of the antral membrane through an extraction site. report of a case. a case of herniation of the antral membrane through a recent extraction site is presented. the lesion was initially diagnosed as a tumor by the referring dentist. oroantral fistulas are not an uncommon finding after dental extractions. it is rare, however, to see herniation of the antral membrane with large polyps extending through the fistula into the oral cavity. a search of the literature revealed only two other such cases. surgical removal of the polyps and closure of the oroantral fistula by means of a buccal sliding flap technique is discussed.
transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials as a prognostic indicator for motor recovery in stroke patients. transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials (mep) were examined in 33 patients within three days after stroke. normal values for mep and motor central conduction time (cct) were obtained in 46 healthy controls whose meps were evaluated during slight voluntary muscle contraction and at rest. two months later 23 patients were re-examined clinically and electrophysiologically. motor function change was correlated with mep results. two months after stroke the patients with normal or prolonged cct had an improved motor function compared with those with absent cct. mep may be a valuable prognostic indicator in the acute stage of paralytic stroke for recovery of motor function.
hyaluronan in pleural effusions and in serum. it has been suggested that a high level of hyaluronan (hyaluronic acid, hya) in pleural fluid is an indicator of malignant mesothelioma. in 78 consecutive patients with pleural effusion of various causes the hya concentration was measured in pleural fluid samples and in serum. nine patients had malignant pleural mesothelioma, and in three of them the hya level in pleural fluid was 100 mg/l or more. in 42 patients with effusions due to metastatic malignancy, the mean hya in the pleural fluid was 75 mg/l, and in five the hya level was above 100 mg/l. cardiac insufficiency caused the effusion in 11 patients, of whom two had a level above 100 mg/l in pleural fluid. four patients had a serologically confirmed viral infection and had hya levels in pleural fluid of 8, 157, 335, and 554 mg/l, respectively. one patient had postinfectious effusion with an hya level in pleural exudate of 748 mg/l, the highest in this investigation. two patients had benign asbestos pleural effusions, and both had high pleural hya levels (256 and 490 mg/l, respectively). the serum hya values were much lower than in the pleural fluid, namely from 15 to 480 micrograms/l; the levels were independent of the levels in the pleural fluid. thus, a high level of hya in pleural fluid is not specific for mesothelioma but can occur in other malignant or benign diseases, and a low level does not exclude mesothelioma.
the child with recurrent solid tumor. a significant percentage of relapse occurs in children with solid tumors despite advances in treatment. this article discusses reasons for failure of primary therapy, evaluation of the relapsed patient, treatment of the relapsed patient, as well as questionable cancer therapies and therapy cessation.
literacy and laryngectomy: how should one treat head and neck cancer in patients who cannot read or write? the entire population of otolaryngologists and radiation oncologists (n = 192) in active practice in the state of north carolina were surveyed to assess their level of awareness of illiteracy among adults in the united states and to determine whether these physicians consider illiteracy in the treatment decision process for patients with head and neck cancer. excluding respondents who did not treat patients with head and neck cancer and physicians practicing outside of the state of north carolina, the response rate was 115 of 182, or 63%. only 26% of respondents were able to estimate correctly the prevalence of illiteracy in the us adult population. forty-one percent of respondents, however, stated that they did consider their patient's ability to read and/or write before making treatment recommendations for head and neck cancer. this survey and accompanying literature review suggest that physicians perceive illiteracy as a problem that may have a significant impact on patients with head and neck cancer, but lack the data needed to enable them to quantify the effect of illiteracy on treatment outcome. the study reported is the first step in examining ways in which illiteracy might negatively affect patient outcomes.
skeletal manifestations of ectopic or inappropriate endocrine and metabolic syndromes. a variety of tumors and nontumorous lesions were used to illustrate some of the biologic, clinical, and pathologic aspects of inappropriate or ectopic endocrine and metabolic syndromes that have musculoskeletal repercussions. it is clear, both from the discussion and case material, that many mechanisms of ectopic endocrine syndromes have yet to be clarified. elaborate techniques are available for hormonal estimations, but their routine use is prohibitively expensive and relatively unrewarding. cells of a given lesion may be functionally heterogeneous or may fail to elaborate active products in substantial amounts. different cells may produce similar peptides, while the same cells can produce more than one. despite these difficulties, recognition of ectopic endocrine syndromes remains crucial to diagnosis and patient management, and thus corroboration or correlation must often rest on a cruder basis. in fact, the clinical significance of basic laboratory data, e.g., pth elevation, may vary, as pth may be immunoreactive but biologically inactive. as another example, hypercalcemia associated with myeloma may be variously related to coexistent hyperparathyroidism, renal disease, dehydration, or humoral osteolysis. therefore, roentgenographic evidence of bone destruction or skeletal stigmata of hyperparathyroidism imbues laboratory data with greater significance. paraneoplastic syndromes are of particular concern to the radiologist, as multiple systemic manifestations, occurring either synchronously or metachronously, may suggest the presence of an underlying or unifying lesion or even of a specific type of neoplasm. they may precede detection of neoplasms by months to years and can develop at any time during their course. paraneoplastic syndromes may, furthermore, parallel the course of a lesion and be used as indicators of remission or recurrence. conversely, those unassociated with overt symptoms possess endocrine markers that can reinforce sometimes silent skeletal stigmata. familiarity with representative secretory products influencing the musculoskeletal system per se may often clarify seemingly innocuous and sometimes asymptomatic skeletal findings. alert imagers may, therefore, detect, infer, or suspect particular syndromes when they present in a specific sequence or mosaic. conversely, when apprised of their existence, imagers should know where their related effects may be sought or anticipated. such relationships, sometimes serendipitously discovered, may be valuable assets in clinical diagnosis and patient management in both suspected and unsuspected cases.
quinapril in chronic heart failure. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are now firmly established in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure (chf). their beneficial acute and chronic hemodynamic effects are not associated with reflex tachycardia or drug tolerance. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors produce symptomatic improvement and improve exercise capacity in all grades of heart failure. they also improve the prognosis of patients with severe heart failure. quinapril is a recently introduced, nonsulfhydryl ace inhibitor, whose intermediate half-life makes it well-suited for the treatment of patients with chf. the acute and chronic hemodynamic effects of quinapril are similar to those of other ace inhibitors. in a large, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study of 225 patients with mild to moderate chf, 10 to 40 mg/day quinapril significantly improved clinical status and exercise capacity in a dose-related manner. the incidence of side effects did not differ significantly from that of placebo. the initial studies with quinapril are promising and warrant further clinical investigation of this compound.
six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening. objective--to determine the value of screening for bacteriuria in infants with special emphasis on the natural course of untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria, renal growth, and renal damage. design--prospective six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening in an unselected infant population. setting--paediatric outpatient clinic. patients--50 infants (14 girls, 36 boys) with bacteriuria on screening verified by suprapubic aspiration from an unselected population of 3581 infants in a defined area of gothenburg. interventions--children with asymptomatic bacteriuria and normal findings on initial urography were untreated, although other infections were treated. main outcome measures--culture of urine and determination of c reactive protein concentration every six weeks for the first six months after diagnosis, every three months from six months to two years, and every six months between two and three years; thereafter yearly urine culture. evaluation of renal concentrating capacity with a desmopressin test; radiological examination, including first and follow up urography and micturition cystourethrography without antibiotic cover; and measurement of renal parenchymal thickness and renal surface area. results--of the original 50 infants, 37 (12 girls, 25 boys) were followed up for at least six years. two infants developed pyelonephritis within two weeks after bacteriuria was diagnosed; the others remained free of symptoms. 45 infants were untreated; the bacteriuria cleared spontaneously in 36 and in response to antibiotics given for infections in the respiratory tract in eight. recurrences of bacteriuria were observed in 10 of the 50 children, of whom one had pyelonephritis. no child had more than one recurrence. at follow up urography in 36 of the 50 children (9 girls, 27 boys) after a median of 32 months no child had developed renal damage. first samples tested for renal concentrating capacity showed significantly higher values than those from a reference population (mean sd score 0.50, 95% confidence interval 0.21 to 0.79; p less than 0.001), but the last samples showed no significant difference (mean sd score 0.08, -0.24 to 0.40; p greater than 0.05). conclusions--mass screening for bacteriuria in infancy results primarily in detection of innocent bacteriuric episodes and is not recommended.
myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus. case report. the case of a myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus is presented. the clinical course is reported, and the frequency of the lesion, diagnostic workup, histopathology, and surgical therapy are discussed.
early diagnosis and surgical intervention of acute aortic dissection by transesophageal color flow mapping. to determine whether transesophageal color doppler echocardiography (tee) is useful for the early diagnosis and surgical intervention in acute aortic dissection, 57 serial patients with acute aortic dissection were examined. these patients were evaluated by tee with either the single-plane probe (39 patients) or the biplanar probe (18 patients) just after admission. the intimal flap was detected in all patients, and there were 18 patients with type a dissection and 39 patients with type b dissection. the entry was visualized in 83% of type a dissection cases and in 90% of type b dissection cases. in two of 18 patients examined with the biplanar probe technique, the entry was detected in the longitudinal view only. emergency operations were performed in 18 patients with type a dissection and in 10 patients with ruptured type b dissection. twenty-nine of 39 patients with type b dissection were treated conservatively. the operative mortality rate of patients with type a dissection was 22%, and that of patients with ruptured type b dissection was 60%. the major advantage of tee is its ease of application at the bedside or in the operating room, which allows immediate and accurate diagnosis of acute aortic dissection for emergency surgical intervention. biplanar tee provides additional acoustic windows, ease of spatial orientation, and more accurate visualization of entry. tee is a useful and powerful diagnostic tool for acute aortic dissection, and by using this method, one may achieve a more rapid and aggressive surgical approach for patients with acute aortic dissection.
neurologic complications of the tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. a case of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia, central nervous system complications, and multiple white matter lesions by magnetic resonance imaging is presented. eosinophilia regardless of its cause should be included within the differential of patients exhibiting periventricular white matter lesions.
mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer. microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma. over 7 years, 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction, 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue, 7 for recurrent tumor, and 6 for other reasons [lymphangioma (1), infection (1), gunshot wound (1), and osteoradionecrosis (3)]. primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9. all repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula, 5 radial forearm, 3 fibula, 2 serratus, and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery. mandibular defects included the symphysis alone (7), symphysis and body (5), symphysis-body-ramus condyle (2), body or ramus (13), and bilateral body (1). fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses. eight received postoperative radiotherapy. all patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination (28) and positive radionuclide scan (22 of 22). bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26. one complete flap loss occurred at 14 days. complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis (3), orocutaneous fistula (3), plate exposure (1), donor site infection (3), fracture of reconstruction (1), and fracture of the radius (1). microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction--despite previous radiotherapy, infection, foreign body, or surgery--in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent. bony union, a healed wound, and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula, skin loss, or metal plate or bone exposure.
primary varicose veins: topographic and hemodynamic correlations. this study was conducted to correlate the clinical presentations of uncomplicated primary varicose veins with the topographic and anatomic source of reflux (escape points). one-hundred sixty-three patients with primary varicose veins (144 females, 19 males; 96 unilateral, 67 bilateral) in 230 involved limbs were examined. the origin and extent of venous reflux was traced with doppler ultrasound. three distinct groups were recognized. group i. typical saphenous varicosities with junctional escapes occurred in 164 (71.3%). sapheno-femoral junction (sfj) incompetence in 147, and sapheno-popliteal junction (spj) incompetence in 17 limbs. group ii. atypical saphenous varicosities with non-junctional escapes occurred in 51 (22.17%) limbs. in 5 limbs, no escape was detected. twenty-two limbs had escapes localized in the main perforators: mid-thigh perforator 17, upper calf 2, distal ankle in 3. twenty-four limbs had their escapes in the auxiliary perforators: abdomino-pelvic 17, and circumflex iliac/external epigastric, 7 limbs. group iii. non saphenous (lateral venous system) varicosities occurred in 15 (6.52%) limbs. based on physical examination alone, 55 limbs would possibly have undergone unnecessary ankle to groin stripping and 83 limbs an unnecessary sfj ligation. doppler us is an essential diagnostic tool that can accurately map the origin and extent of the venous reflux. the obtained hemodynamic information will permit more selective, multimodal therapy and avoid the indiscriminate, often unnecessary stripping of the entire saphenous system in all cases of primary varicose veins.
pemoline-associated hepatic injury. among 100 cases of hepatic injury attributed to the administration of pemoline, 43 had sufficient accompanying information to permit analysis. all but two patients were less than 20 years old, and 80% were less than 12 years old. males predominated the study. injury appeared as early as 1 week or as late as greater than 1 year of taking the drug. the injury was uniformly hepatocellular as judged by the high values for aminotransferases and by death in massive necrosis in one patient. mechanism was judged to be idiosyncratic, and the idiosyncrasy was probably metabolic rather than immunologic.
recent life change and large bowel cancer. data from the melbourne colorectal cancer study. in a large, population based, epidemiological study of colorectal cancer, the melbourne colorectal cancer study, several etiological factors were investigated. persons' recent life changes, as well as the degree of upset they experienced as a result of these changes, were included. interviews with 715 histologically confirmed new cases of colorectal cancer occurring over a 12-month period in melbourne, australia, and with 727 age and sex matched community controls were conducted. as one of the methods of assessing any effect of recall bias, 179 hospital controls were also investigated. major illness or death of a family member, major family problems and major work problems were found to be significantly more common for cases over the 5 years preceding diagnosis compared to controls. cases also reported being significantly more upset with their recent life changes than did controls. no significant differences in results were found between males and females, or between colon cancer and rectal cancer patients. although the possibility of recall bias, was not completely controlled for in this study, it was probably not an important factor in explaining case-control differences. recent life changes, and their perceptions, may have significance in the development of large bowel cancer.
acth therapy in infantile spasms: relationship between dose of acth and initial effect or long-term prognosis. the relationship between the dose of acth and the initial effect was investigated in 41 children with infantile spasms. more than 0.015 mg (0.6 iu)/kg/day of acth was needed for a good initial response of seizures and electroencephalographic abnormalities. the relationship between the dose of acth and long-term prognosis was investigated in 29 patients. there was no relationship between the daily or total acth dosage, provided the dose was greater than 0.015 mg (0.6 iu)/kg/day, and the outcome of seizures and electroencephalographic abnormalities; however, acth 0.04-0.06 mg (1.6-2.4 iu)/kg/day and a total acth dose of 1.1-1.5 mg (44-60 iu)/kg resulted in better mental development than smaller doses of acth. side effects of acth increased with dosage. too small or too large a dose of acth does not lead to better mental development. the proper dose of acth should be used with careful attention to potential side effects.
prognostic factors in acute renal failure following aortic aneurysm surgery. this study analyses the prognostic factors associated with survival in 70 patients who developed acute renal failure following surgery for an aortic aneurysm. forty-nine patients (70 per cent) had surgery for a ruptured aortic aneurysm and 21 patients (30 per cent) had an elective procedure. fifty-nine patients received haemodialysis. thirty-three patients (47 per cent) survived the episode of acute renal failure. six of these thirty-three patients died within three months of recovering from acute renal failure, giving an overall survival of 27/70 (39 per cent). a stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the following factors significantly adversely affected survival: a need for inotropic support, ventilation for more than three days and age over 65 years. a model developed using these variables provided a basis for predicting outcome.
colon interposition for esophageal disease: histologic finding of colonic mucosa after a follow-up of 5 months to 15 years. thirty-six patients, subjected to colon interposition for benign esophageal disease or carcinoma of the esophagus or gastric cardia, were studied by endoscopy for signs of mucosal disease in the interposed colon. five months to 15 yr (mean 57 months) after the operation, endoscopic finding of the interposed colon was macroscopically normal in 28 patients. signs of inflammation, including hyperemia or hyperemia and friability, were observed in seven patients. histologic specimens obtained at endoscopy were examined microscopically, and the findings were compared with those seen in the preoperative graft. in two patients, chronic inflammatory changes were observed in the graft mucosa, consisting of mononuclear cell infiltration of the lamina propria accompanied by crypt dilatation and deformation. in one of these patients, the inflammation was in the proximal third of the graft, and it was also seen at the endoscopy. in the remaining 34 patients, the graft mucosa was microscopically comparable to normal. the alterations were unexpectedly few and mild considering the marked change in the location and function of the colonic segment.
immunohistochemical differentiation of basal cell epithelioma from cutaneous appendages using monoclonal anti-glycoprotein antibody tnkh1. its application in mohs' micrographic surgery. tnkh1, which was primarily developed to detect differentiated melanocytic tumor cells, was found to recognize basal keratinocytes of hair follicle and some basal keratinocytes of human epidermis. thus, tnkh1 decorated the basal cells of following structures: epidermis (39 of 54, only part of each specimen [opes]), upper hair follicle (one of 24, opes), lower hair follicle (21 of 21, very high rate of each specimen [vhes]), sebaceous duct (14 of 15, vhes), sebaceous gland (ten of 14, germinative cells near duct), eccrine duct (three of 19, opes). epithelial tumors, considered to be derived from or differentiating toward hair follicle such as trichilemmoma (one of one, vhes) and basal cell epithelioma (bce) (32 of 32, vhes) were labeled not only in the peripheral cells but in their entirety. on the other hand, epidermal tumors, such as seborrheic keratosis (ten of 11, opes), actinic keratosis (two of three, opes), and squamous cell carcinoma (one of two, opes), showed an irregular peripheral basal cell staining as in normal epidermis. the apocrine sweat apparatus and eccrine secretory portion were negative. eccrine ductal tumors such as syringoma (two tested), eccrine acrospiroma (one), and eccrine carcinoma (two) were tnkh1 negative. taking advantage of this total labeling of bce versus peripheral labeling of the hair follicle, the authors could distinguish bce tissue from other structures clearly. among confusing structures the upper hair follicle and the eccrine duct were excluded easily because of their negative staining with tnkh1. the lower hair follicle was tnkh1 positive but only in the outer basal layer, whereas the bce was tnkh1 positive in its entire basaloid cells. the result indicated that tnkh1 will be a useful antibody in mohs' micrographic surgery.
malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli. report of a case and review of the literature. juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change. the authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis. juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years. he underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years. at age 12, he underwent a proctectomy and a swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump. at age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp.
local antibiotic delivery in the treatment of bone and joint infections. antibiotics can be delivered locally via an implantable pump to treat bone and joint infections. this is a completely closed system, and the pump is refilled percutaneously at intervals based on its flow rate. the use of this method is described in three specific clinical situations: (1) resistant osteomyelitis (patients with persistent infections despite previous therapy), (2) acutely infected arthroplasties (symptomatic for less than six weeks), and (3) chronically infected arthroplasties (patients infected more than six weeks). in all three clinical situations, hospitalization time was shortened, and high local and low systemic levels of antibiotic were obtained. there was only one incident of side effects to the antibiotic used. this method has been successful in obtaining long-term suppression of infection in 30 of 42 patients with resistant osteomyelitis, 30 of 37 patients with acutely infected arthroplasties, and seven of ten patients with chronically infected arthroplasties. the complication unique to this method of therapy is pump-site and catheter-site infections. this occurred in three patients with recalcitrant osteomyelitis and three patients with acutely infected arthroplasties.
comparison of shunt fraction estimation using transcolonic iodine-123-iodoamphetamine and technetium-99m-pertechnetate in a group of dogs with experimentally-induced chronic biliary cirrhosis. portosystemic shunt fraction estimation using transcolonic iodine-123-iodoamphetamine (imp) has been previously validated relative to portal vein macroaggregated albumin injections using an experimental model of cirrhosis. transcolonic technetium-99m-pertechnetate (tco4-) has been proposed as an alternative tracer to imp to study portal circulation in cirrhotic patients. we compared shunt fraction estimates from paired transcolonic imp and tco4- studies performed on a group of dogs before and after common bile duct ligation surgery. pertechnetate over-estimated shunt fraction in 6/7 postoperative studies relative to imp. a good correlation between the two methods was demonstrated, however, the slope of the regression line was substantially less than 1.0 with tco4- values reaching 100% at imp shunt values of approximately 60%. this apparent inability to accurately assess high shunt flows may limit the quantitative aspects of tco4- studies on patients with severe portosystemic shunting.
mechanical circulatory support as a bridge to transplantation: current status of total artificial heart in 1989 and determinants of survival. since april 1986, 40 total artificial hearts (tah) were implanted as a bridge to transplantation in our institution. in an attempt to identify factors affecting survival of tah recipients we reviewed our experience over 1000 days of mechanical support. there was no postoperative bleeding requiring surgery nor were there any clinical episodes of thromboembolic complications. over a total functioning period greater than 3 years there were no mechanical failures in the driving system but one artificial ventricle had to be replaced because of mechanical dysfunction. infections and multiple organ failure were the primary causes of morbidity and mortality during mechanical support. when the patients who underwent staged transplantation (no. 17) were compared with those who died during mechanical support (no. 23) there were no differences in tah driving mode or hemodynamic variables between the groups. although preoperative pulmonary, hepatic and renal functions were found to be similar between the groups, there were significant differences in the early evolution (3 days) of hepatic and renal functions following tah implant (p less than 0.01). urinary output was found to be the earliest variable discriminating recovery and survival (p less than 0.01). finally, univariate analysis indicated age (less than 40 vs greater than 40 years) and modality of cardiac decompensation (acute vs chronic) as the most important factors affecting survival after tah implantation. since young patients (less than 40 years of age) with acute decompensation were successfully transplanted in 82% of cases while 100% of older patients with chronic decompensation died before or after transplantation, tah should be advised in young patients with acute or chronic heart failure and in selected older candidates with recent, acute cardiac failure.
impairment of the myocardial ultrastructure and changes of the cytoskeleton in dilated cardiomyopathy. this study was designed to determine the morphological correlate of chronic heart failure. myocardial tissue from eight patients undergoing transplantation surgery because of end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy was investigated by electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry using monoclonal antibodies against elements of the cytoskeleton: desmin, tubulin, vinculin, and vimentin. the tissue showed hypertrophy, atrophy of myocytes, and an increased amount of fibrosis. ultrastructural changes consisted of enlargement and varying shape of nuclei, numerous very small mitochondria, proliferation of t tubules, and accumulation of lipid droplets and glycogen. the most obvious ultrastructural alteration was the decrease of myofilaments, ranging from rarefication to complete absence of sarcomeres in cells filled with unspecified cytoplasm. immunocytochemistry showed that desmin was localized at the z lines. in diseased myocardium, the amount of desmin was increased, but it was disorderly arranged. tubulin formed a fine network throughout the myocytes and was significantly increased in cardiomyopathic hearts. vinculin, a protein closely associated with the cytoskeleton, occurred not only at the sarcolemma and the intercalated disc but also within the myocardial cells. ultrastructural changes and alterations of the cytoskeleton were severe in about one third of all cells. about one third of all cells showed moderately severe changes, and the remaining cells were normal. vimentin was present in the interstitial cells and was increased in relation to the increase of fibrosis. we conclude that the increase of fibrosis, the degeneration of hypertrophied myocardial cells, and the alterations of the cytoskeleton are the morphological correlates of reduced myocardial function in chronic heart failure.
short-term changes in renal function, blood pressure, and electrolyte levels in patients receiving cyclosporine for dermatologic disorders. we compared the changes in renal function, blood pressure (bp), and concentrations of serum potassium, magnesium, and urate (uric acid) in two groups of patients not given transplants. group 1, comprising 21 psoriatic patients, was treated with 14 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 4 weeks in a prospective, placebo-controlled study; group 2, comprising 28 patients with diverse cutaneous diseases, was given 6 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 1 to 3 months in a prospective, open-labeled study. renal function (determined by serum urea nitrogen [sun] and creatinine levels and urinalysis), bp, serum electrolyte levels (potassium and magnesium), and urate level were measured weekly for the first 4 weeks in both groups, and then, after 2 and 3 months of therapy, in group 2 only. during the first 4 weeks in group 1 patients, there were significant increases in values of sun, creatinine, bp, potassium, and urate, and a significant decrease in the serum magnesium value. when data for the two groups were combined, the changes from pretherapy values in each of the above measures (except systolic bp) during the first 4 weeks correlated significantly with cyclosporine trough levels. in group 2, the changes that occurred in the first 4 weeks in the sun value, sun/creatinine ratio, and bp were magnified over the subsequent 8 weeks of treatment. in the combined group for the first 4 weeks of therapy, duration of therapy, independent of cyclosporine trough levels, correlated with changes in sun, creatinine, and urate levels, but not with changes in the potassium or magnesium level or in bp. we conclude that the cyclosporine blood level was a better discriminant than cyclosporine dosage in the analysis of renal dysfunction and hypertension in these patients.
bronchial mucus hypersecretion in acute quadriplegia. macromolecular yields and glycoconjugate composition. in acute quadriplegia we have noted that about one in five patients develops unexplained production of markedly excessive and tenacious bronchial mucus. spontaneous recovery from mucus hypersecretion usually occurs within weeks to months. mucus samples collected from 12 patients have been found to be abnormal. macromolecular contents of single aspirates yielded as much as 500 mg. analytical ultracentrifuge analysis showed the mucus to contain considerable epithelial glycoprotein (gp) of typical buoyant density; its amino acid and carbohydrate compositions were characteristic of the gp from hypersecretory bronchial mucus such as in chronic bronchitis and cystic fibrosis. in five patients studied after recovery from hypersecretion, there tended to be relatively less gp. the mucus samples contained a high density glycoconjugate (gc): this had sugars of gp but also reacted positively with a monoclonal antibody to keratan sulfate. its amino acid composition was different from that of gp: threonine was lower and glycine was higher than in gp. in mucus from one patient who died, chondroitin sulfate abc and hyaluronic acid were identified as well. this suggests proteoglycans are involved in the pathophysiology of mucus hypersecretion. the sudden onset and spontaneous recovery of hypersecretion suggests that it is not due to gland hypertrophy. we speculate that in acute quadriplegia it is due to disturbed neuronal control of bronchial mucus gland secretion, perhaps related to initial disappearance and later reappearance of peripheral sympathetic nervous system tone.
angioplasty of occluded coronary arteries: use of thin shaft balloon over-the-wire system without pre-dilatation. a retrospective review was done on 13 consecutive patients who underwent ptca of totally occluded coronary arteries using a recently released thin shaft balloon over-the-wire angioplasty system. balloon size was determined by the closest fit to the arterial size and used without predilatation techniques. this technique was initially successful in 12 patients with only 2 clinically insignificant episodes of distal embolization and one probable early reclosure. using thin shaft angioplasty systems, balloon dilatation of totally occluded coronary arteries can be done safely with a single balloon in many cases resulting in simplified procedures and economic benefits.
atrial fibrillation after stroke in the elderly. to examine the relationship between atrial fibrillation and mortality after stroke, we studied 186 men and 167 women from the waikato stroke registry whose mean age was 75.2 +/- 7.5 years. twenty-three percent (82 of 353) had atrial fibrillation or flutter on their admission electrocardiogram. this group differed significantly from that with sinus rhythm in three respects: 1) they were older (p less than 0.01); 2) they had more severe current stroke deficit as evidenced by lower limb power (p less than 0.05) and mini-mental state score (p less than 0.001), higher incidence of homonomous hemianopia (p less than 0.05), and lower incidence of lacunar syndrome stroke (p less than 0.001); and 3) they had a significantly higher incidence of cardiomegaly and congestive heart failure (p less than 0.01). functional outcome was insignificantly better in the group with sinus rhythm. during a mean follow-up period of 18 months, mortality was significantly higher in the group with atrial fibrillation (p = 0.001). proportional hazards modeling, however, showed that the apparently poorer survival in those patients with atrial fibrillation could be explained by factors other than cardiac rhythm, such as age, mini-mental state score, level of consciousness, and interstitial edema on admission chest radiograph. thus, atrial fibrillation was not an independent predictor of survival after stroke.
the effect of posterior rectopexy on fecal continence. a prospective study. twenty-three patients with rectal prolapse or intussusception were studied to specifically focus on the effect of posterior rectopexy on fecal continence, anal pressure, and rectal capacity. before operation, five patients were fully continent (a), 10 were continent for solid stools (b) and eight patients were fully incontinent (c). group a remained fully continent; continence was regained nine times in group b and in group c, three patients regained full continence, two became continent for solid stools, three patients remained incontinent. other symptoms such as constipation, false urgency, and a feeling of incomplete evacuation were not beneficially influenced by rectopexy. the patients' continence status was correlated to anorectal manometry and rectal capacity measurement. in group b, incremental pressure (p = squeeze - basal p) increased significantly (p less than 0.02) as well as incremental volume (v = maximum tolerated volume - volume of first sensation) (p less than 0.05). we conclude that, by an increase of incremental anal pressure and incremental rectal volume, posterior rectopexy offers an 83 percent chance of regaining full continence, or a major improvement, and a 17 percent chance of stabilization of fecal incontinence.
neurodevelopmental outcome of children with evidence of periventricular leukomalacia on late mri. fifteen children, 8 months of age or older, from a neonatal follow-up program underwent magnetic resonance imaging and neurologic, cognitive, and language evaluations. magnetic resonance imaging findings in all children included increased white matter signal on t2-weighted images and ventricular enlargement adjacent to regions of abnormal white matter. the extent of degree of abnormal white matter signal and the degree of sulcal prominence were variable. twelve children had cerebral palsy; 5 children, 4 of whom had cerebral palsy, manifested significant sensory impairments. the median score on cognitive testing was 89; only 2 children exhibited severe-to-profound cognitive disability. cognitive scores were stable on retesting. the degree of motor disability was correlated with the extent of white matter signal abnormality; however, cognitive outcome was not related to the extent and degree of white matter signal abnormality or to the degree of sulcal prominence. despite the association of a major handicapping condition and periventricular leukomalacia, cognitive and language functioning may be relatively spared.
the management of pseudomyxoma peritonei. the management of nine patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei was reviewed. aggressive surgical resection of tumor is the standard of treatment, with many patients requiring multiple laparotomies. chemotherapy, including the use of cisplatin is not effective. long-term nutritional support provides a better quality of survival for select patients.
binding to human jejunum of serum iga antibody from children with coeliac disease. jejunal histology and the presence of serum iga antibodies (jab) binding to human jejunum in vitro were studied in 139 children with severe malabsorptive symptoms. among 33 children with confirmed coeliac disease (espgan criteria), 13 (93%) of 14 sampled before starting on a gluten-free diet had jab, none of 21 sampled had jab while on a gluten-free diet of long duration, and 90% of 30 sampled during gluten challenge had jab. 53 children had severe jejunal villous atrophy (probable coeliac disease): 71% of those younger than 2 years and 94% of those aged 2-18 years had jab during gluten intake. jab could not be detected in 53 disease control patients (normal jejunal histology) and in 3 coeliac disease patients with selective iga deficiency. simultaneous determination of antigliadin (aga) and antiendomysium (ema) levels, and gliadin and tissue absorption studies, showed that jab and aga are different, whereas jab and ema are probably identical. iga jab could be the target-organ-related autoantibodies in coeliac disease.
pulmonary hypertension five years after left pneumonectomy for adenoid cystic carcinoma. we report the findings in a patient with shortness of breath due to pulmonary hypertension five years after left pneumonectomy. mediastinal recurrence of an incompletely resected and slowly growing adenoid cystic carcinoma of the left main bronchus had encased the right main pulmonary artery.
the role of attitudes, beliefs, and personal characteristics of italian physicians in the surgical treatment of early breast cancer. the influence of italian physicians' attitudes, beliefs, and personal characteristics on medical decision making is examined in the case of surgical treatment of early breast cancer. responses to a mail survey of 657 physicians from different specialties were analyzed comparing doctors recommending a radical procedure (9%) to those preferring a conservative procedure for younger patients only (25%), and those considering conservative surgery the treatment of choice regardless of patients' age (66%). the findings suggest that the likelihood of physicians' preferring a conservative procedure is influenced by their specialty and the extent to which they feel that a patient should have a role in the treatment decision more than by differences in the beliefs of treatment outcomes. only preferences of the small group indicating radical surgery as the sole admissible treatment can be accounted for by ignorance or distrust of results of recent trials. these findings suggest that other than scientific factors guide many doctors in their decision making; they may help to explain why the diffusion of research results into clinical practice is often disappointingly slow.
a comparison in vitro of human and rabbit distal colonic muscle responses to inflammatory mediators. the present study compared in vitro the motor responses of human and rabbit distal colonic longitudinal and circular muscle to acetylcholine, histamine, leukotrienes b4 and d4, and prostaglandins e2 and f2 alpha. the active and passive mechanical properties of these muscles were also evaluated. all muscle types were contracted by acetylcholine and histamine. longitudinal muscle from both species was contracted by prostaglandin e2 and prostaglandin f2 alpha, although rabbit muscle was more sensitive. prostaglandin e2 relaxed the majority of both human and rabbit circular muscle preparations that were studied. prostaglandin f2 alpha first relaxed and then contracted circular muscle from both species. leukotriene b4 had no effect on any tissue studied. leukotriene d4 caused transient relaxations in a proportion of all muscle types, but the relaxations were not concentration-related. contractile responses did not differ under isotonic recording conditions, but relaxations were much more clearly defined. based on experiments using atropine, phentolamine and propranolol, and pyrilamine or tetrodotoxin, it was concluded that the responses of both human and rabbit distal colonic muscles to these inflammatory mediators have a similar pharmacological basis. all muscle types exhibited low passive tension and developed active tension in the range 0.8-1.2 lo. these data strongly support the belief that after the onset of an induced colitis, the rabbit colon has value as a predictive model for the study of inflammatory mediator-induced colonic motility changes in humans.
definitive mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates. mandibular defects following radical cancer surgery continue to provide challenges to head and neck surgeons. twenty-seven patients with advanced oral cancer underwent primary mandibular replacement with metal reconstruction plates without the use of bone. twenty-one patients (78%) had successful reconstruction with primary soft tissue healing. six patients required removal of the plate in the postoperative period. two of these patients had their reconstruction plates replaced as a secondary procedure following soft tissue healing. thus, 23 of 27 patients (85%) had final mandibular reconstruction and were followed for an average of 19 months. functional and cosmetic results were satisfactory. for patients with advanced disease, this technique compares favorably with microvascular transfer in terms of operating time and donor defect. despite problems with plate exposure, the initial and overall success rates of 78% and 85%, respectively, make the use of these plates a reasonable choice for immediate reconstructive needs in patients with difficult tumors.
neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy. the variety of cognitive dysfunctions related to learning disabilities in children with epilepsy have been studied by linking electroencephalogram (eeg) and computerized neuropsychological testing. this showed that "subclinical" discharges impaired performance in 61% of the patients on a simple and a choice reaction time test, although some discharges lasted 1 s only. neuropsychological investigation of subclinical eeg discharges may help to determine their adverse effect on learning.
portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter. curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion, especially into the portal vein. we developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein. pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer, with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein. use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein, and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease.
the role of chronotropic impairment during exercise after the mustard operation. to better understand the role of chronotropic impairment on exercise performance after the atrial switch (mustard) operation, 20 patients who had undergone this operation for uncomplicated d-transposition of the great arteries exercised to maximal volition using a 1 min incremental treadmill protocol. heart rate, oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production and minute ventilation were monitored continuously. two-dimensional echocardiograms were obtained before testing to calculate the right ventricular inflow volume indexed to body surface area. all patients achieved maximal aerobic capacity based on their ventilatory patterns and respiratory exchange ratio. maximal heart rate was reduced (175 beats/min; 87% of predicted for age) and maximal oxygen consumption was decreased (31 ml/kg per min; 75% of predicted for age and gender). there was no correlation between maximal oxygen consumption and maximal heart rate. right ventricular volume index, however, had a significant inverse correlation with maximal heart rate (r = -0.62, p less than 0.005). there was no correlation between right ventricular volume index and heart rate at rest. these results suggest that decreased maximal oxygen consumption in patients after the mustard procedure is not a result of chronotropic impairment. right ventricular dilation may be a compensatory response to chronotropic impairment.
the costs of prevention. a prevention program is cost-effective if it yields more health benefits than do alternative uses of health care resources. some prevention programs meet this standard: either they actually save more health care resources than they utilize, or their net costs per healthy year of life gained are lower than those of alternatives such as curative or palliative medicine. other prevention programs, however, are less cost-effective than are medical treatments for the same disease. one lesson for public policy is that generalizations about the cost-effectiveness of "prevention" are unwise. another lesson is that prevention programs should not be subjected to a higher standard than other health programs: they should not be expected to save money, but they should be expected to yield improved health at a reasonable price.
geographical clustering of risk factors and lifestyle for coronary heart disease in the scottish heart health study. a large cross sectional study, the scottish heart health study, of 10,359 men and women from 22 districts of scotland was undertaken to try to explain the geographical variation of coronary heart disease mortality. analysis by district showed that of the classic risk factors only cigarette smoking was strongly associated with heart disease mortality among both men and women. mean diastolic blood pressure was weakly associated with rates among men and high density lipoprotein cholesterol showed a strong negative association among women. total cholesterol showed a weak negative association with heart disease mortality, but, because the serum concentrations of cholesterol were uniformly high in all districts, a strong association with mortality would not be expected. in both men and women many dietary factors showed moderate or strong associations with mortality from coronary heart disease in a district--of these a low consumption of vitamin c was most notable. other factors associated with heart disease included alcohol consumption and serum triglycerides among men, and obesity, physical activity, and serum triglycerides among women. many factors associated with heart disease showed strong intercorrelations. clustering of risk factors (including smoking, alcohol, and diet among men, and smoking, diet, and obesity among women) was associated with much of the regional variation in heart disease mortality in scotland.
proximal gastric vagotomy: follow-up at 10-20 years. from august 1969 to december 1989, 600 patients had elective proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulceration with an operative mortality of 0.2 per cent. of these, 372 patients had surgery over 10 years ago. three hundred and forty-two patients survived for more than 10 years and, in a prospective study, 305 were reviewed, forming the basis of this 10-20-year follow-up report. forty-six (15 per cent) have had recurrent ulceration; 80 per cent of these developed symptoms within 5 years and no patient has had recurrence after 13 years. although 29 patients required reoperation for recurrent ulceration, the current patient satisfaction rate for visick grades i and ii is 92 per cent. only two patients required reoperation because of gastric stasis. it is concluded that proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe and satisfactory first choice operation for duodenal ulceration.
dietary deficiency of antioxidants exacerbates ischemic injury in the rat kidney. we examined the effects of dietary deficiency of vitamin e and selenium on the ischemia-reperfusion model of renal injury in the rat. deficient diets imposed for six weeks on three-week-old weanling rats led to no significant differences in body weights, serum creatinine, gfr, rbf, tmpah or urinary total protein excretory rates prior to ischemia. twenty-four hours after one hour of ischemia, animals on the deficient diet demonstrated more markedly impaired gfr, rbf, tmpah and urine to plasma creatinine concentrations and an increased renal failure index. tubular damage was more severe injury in the deficient animals. lipid peroxidation, 15 minutes after the release of the ischemic clamp, was increased in the deficient animals. we confirmed the effects of our dietary manipulation in impairing the oxidant scavenging system in the deficient animals since glutathione peroxidase activity was reduced to less than 5% in the basal state, and this striking reduction persisted following ischemia. plasma vitamin e concentrations were also markedly depressed in the deficient diets. this dietary deficiency also worsened the course of acute renal injury and was accompanied by 50% mortality compared to 0% mortality in the control animals. thus, dietary deficiency of vitamin e and selenium led to greater structural and functional renal impairment and increased lipid peroxidation following ischemia. these data provide support for the role of reactive oxygen species in mediating ischemia-reperfusion injury.
"pseudospasticity" in guillain-barre syndrome. we report a woman with guillain-barre syndrome who developed a flexion posture of the right arm and hand resembling upper motor neuron dysfunction. emg demonstrated that involuntary peripherally generated continuous motor unit discharges caused the posture.
influence of bone mineral density on the fixation of thoracolumbar implants. a comparative study of transpedicular screws, laminar hooks, and spinous process wires. posteriorly directed load to failure testing of four different types of spinal implants was performed in individual t5 to s1 vertebra harvested from seven fresh-frozen human cadaveric spines. the implants tested were: 1) drummond spinous process wires, 2) harrington laminar hooks, 3) cotrel-dubousset transpedicular screws, and 4) steffee vsp transpedicular screws. the ultimate failure of each implant was compared with the bone mineral density of each vertebra to determine which implants, if any, were particularly advantageous in osteoporotic vertebrae. before biomechanical testing, the spines were analyzed in vitro by dual photon absorptiometry to determine the bone mineral densities (gm/cm2) of each vertebra. the mean tensile loads to failure for each of the implants tested were as follows: cotrel-dubousset transpedicular screws: 345 newtons; spinous process wire/button: 382 newtons; steffee transpedicular screws: 430 newtons; and laminar hooks: 646 newtons. the difference between the loads to failure for laminar hooks and the other implants was significant (p less than 0.05) using one-way analysis of variance. the overall correlation coefficient for bone mineral density with ultimate load to failure was 0.30 (p less than 0.001). the correlation coefficients were 0.47 (p less than 0.001) for spinous process wires alone; 0.096 (not significant) for laminar hooks alone; 0.37 (p less than 0.001) for cotrel-dubousset pedicle screws; and 0.48 (p less than 0.001) for steffee pedicle screws. of the four different implants tested, laminar hooks were most resistant to failure from posteriorly directed forces.
a placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. california collaborative treatment group. background and methods. in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids), the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high. we conducted a controlled, double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole. at entry into the study, all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis. the patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy. the dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase. results. of 84 patients initially enrolled, 16 (19 percent) were found to have silent, persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry. of the remaining 61 patients, 10 of 27 assigned to placebo (37 percent) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole (3 percent) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site (difference in risk, 34 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 15 to 53). of the 11 recurrent infections, 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage. there were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo, but none in those taking fluconazole (mean duration of follow-up, 164 days) (p = 0.03). in multivariate analyses, the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment (p = 0.02; relative hazard, 13.2), a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer (p = 0.05; relative hazard, 1.2), and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine (p = 0.09; relative hazard, 1.1). survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups. conclusions. in patients with aids, silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis. maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection.
adenine nucleotide changes in kidney, liver, and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury. the purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock, contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs (the liver and small intestine), and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion, the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure. rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock, septic shock, or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations. the liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion, followed by the kidney, and then the small intestine. however, only the kidney developed clear morphological damage (s3 brush border sloughing). kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures. only profound hemorrhagic shock (35-40 mm hg for 25 minutes) decreased total adenylate pools (atp + adp + amp). however, the degree of renal catabolite (nucleosides plus purine base) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion, partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools. purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs, consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity (small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney). renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate (0-30 minutes) postshock period, and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition (oxypurinol), suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury. shock, in comparison with renal arterial occlusion, caused only modest atp loss/catabolite accumulation, very low purine base/uric acid ratios, and no immediate-reperfusion (0-30 minutes) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool. thus, ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably, depending on the nature of the ischemic event.
abnormal differentiation of human papillomavirus-induced laryngeal papillomas. we studied the proliferation and differentiation of human laryngeal papillomas, which are benign tumors induced by human papillomaviruses. immunofluorescent stains of tissues for a number of differentiation-specific proteins showed abnormal differentiation. papilloma tissue fragments in vitro showed a slightly decreased fraction of proliferating cells that incorporated tritiated thymidine and a markedly reduced incorporation of tritiated uridine when compared with normal tissue. we propose that papillomavirus infection results in normal basal cell proliferation but abnormal terminal differentiation and that this abnormality significantly contributes to the hyperplasia of the papillomas.
potent selective inhibition of 7-o-methyl ucn-01 against protein kinase c. ucn-01 is a staurosporine-related compound that was isolated from the culture broth of streptomyces sp. and shows potent and selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase c. cellular inhibitory activity of ucn-01 against protein kinase c and cytotoxicity of ucn-01 were compared with those of staurosporine. when the mechanism of inhibitory activity was investigated in vitro, ucn-01 as well as staurosporine inhibited the activity of the catalytic domain of protein kinase c. in spite of direct inhibition against the catalytic domain of protein kinase c, cytotoxicity of ucn-01 was much lower than that of staurosporine. in addition, ucn-01 showed more selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase c than did staurosporine because of the sole structural difference at c-7. therefore, a series of 7-o-alkyl derivatives of ucn-01 was synthesized and investigated. interestingly, one of the compounds, the beta-methoxy derivative, showed 3-fold greater potency and 17-fold more selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase c than did ucn-01.
thyroiditis. acute, subacute, and chronic. inflammatory diseases of the thyroid are collectively the commonest thyroid disorder. individually, they range from the rare case of acute bacterial thyroiditis to the other end of the spectrum, the even rarer riedel's thyroiditis. relatively common thyroid inflammatory diseases include the subacute thyroiditis syndromes. of particular interest to endocrinologists is that both subacute granulomatous (painful) thyroiditis and subacute lymphocytic (painless) thyroiditis are very similar in terms of clinical course, although most likely have different etiologies. nevertheless, their similarities suggest the possibility that there may be etiologic heterogeneity for the syndromes. from a clinical standpoint, it is essential to differentiate subacute painless thyroiditis from graves' disease, because these two disorders also may mimic each other, yet only graves' disease requires specific therapy. chronic lymphocytic (hashimoto's) thyroiditis, the commonest of the thyroiditides, presents with goiter and either hyperthyroidism (uncommon), hypothyroidism (common), or euthyroidism (most common). when l-t4 therapy is used in the treatment of hashimoto's thyroiditis, the physician must be alert to the possibility of excess thyroid hormone administration. sensitive tsh measurements help to avoid this therapeutic pitfall.
immunological studies before and during interferon therapy in chronic hbv infection: identification of factors predicting response. lymphoblastoid interferon is effective therapy in some but not all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. to assess whether immunological parameters were predictive of response to interferon therapy, we determined the human leukocyte antigen type, cd4/cd8 ratio, natural killer cell activity, igm anti-hbc antibody levels and concanavalin a-induced lymphocyte proliferative response in 30 patients before treatment. in addition, to investigate the mechanisms of action of interferon in promoting hepatitis b virus clearance, we serially measured the cd4/cd8 ratios, natural killer activity and lymphocyte proliferative response at wk 4, 8 and 12 of treatment. a beneficial response to therapy was defined as the sustained clearance of hbeag and serum hepatitis b virus dna within 1 yr of commencing therapy. elevated igm anti-hbc levels were associated with a beneficial response to therapy, but there was no correlation observed between response and pretreatment cd4/cd8 ratio, natural killer activity or lymphocyte proliferative response. six of seven human leukocyte antigen dr3-positive patients responded. no measurable changes in the immunological parameters studied were observed in the nonresponder group, whereas a significant rise in cd4/cd8 ratio, associated with a fall in peripheral cd8 number and a decline in measurable nk activity, was seen in the responder group. these changes were maximal at the time of hepatitis b virus dna clearance, which was associated with a transient increase in hepatic inflammation.
observer reliability in detecting surreptitious random occlusions of the monaural esophageal stethoscope. the esophageal stethoscope is used often during anesthesia to monitor ventilation and cardiac function. deficiencies in observer vigilance may limit the effectiveness of this monitoring instrument. the aim of this study was to determine how long it took for an observer to detect a surreptitiously occluded monaural esophageal stethoscope in the setting of clinical anesthesia. during routine anesthesia, where an esophageal stethoscope was in use, a computer-guided device would artificially, silently, and at random time intervals, occlude the stethoscope tubing. personnel using the stethoscope noted when they perceived the absence of stethoscope sounds. we studied 320 stethoscope occlusions in 32 patients. the time between stethoscope occlusion and detection was 34 +/- 59 seconds (mean +/- sd). eighty-seven percent of detections were made in less than 60 seconds. however, 13% of detections were delayed for more than 60 seconds, and 2.3% for more than 240 seconds. while anesthesia personnel using an esophageal stethoscope could detect most stethoscope occlusions, failure to appreciate such episodes occurred in a small but significant number of cases. this suggests that the esophageal stethoscope has some definite limitations as a continuous monitor and that other monitoring techniques, such as oximetry, capnography, and ventilator disconnect alarms, as well as visual/tactile inspection of the patient, should be used as well.
postnatal epilepsy after eeg-confirmed neonatal seizures. we examined infants whose neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal eeg tracings to determine the types and frequency of postnatal epilepsy (pne)--unprovoked, recurring postnatal seizures. perinatal and postnatal clinical and eeg variables were also examined for their relevance to pne. forty infants with eeg-documented neonatal seizures of diverse etiologies were studied. the 27 survivors were followed for a mean of 31 months. pne developed in 56% (15 of 27) of the cohort. the first seizure appeared at a mean-corrected age of 12.7 months and occurred despite ongoing antiepileptic medication in 60% (9 of 15) of the group. seizures were classified as infantile spasms or minor motor (7 patients), complex partial (4 patients), or generalized tonic-clonic (4 patients). perinatal variables that significantly correlated with pne included the presence of coma but not the age at seizure onset, the estimated gestational age, or apgar scores. pne occurred in 68% (13 of 19) of patients with moderately or markedly abnormal eeg backgrounds but in only 25% (2 of 8) without (p = 0.035). there was a strong trend for pne to develop in patients with greater than 10 electrographic seizures per hour but in only 45% (9 of 20) of infants with fewer seizures (p = 0.058). several postnatal variables were significantly related to pne--the presence of cerebral palsy (cp), mental retardation (mr), cp with mr, and follow-up eegs. pne occurred in only 27% (3 of 11) of patients without spikes or sharp waves on postnatal eegs performed at age 3 months but in 100% (3 of 3) of patients with spikes or sharp waves (p = 0.022).
kaposi's sarcoma of the colon in a young hiv-negative woman with crohn's disease. we report a case of isolated colonic kaposi's sarcoma in a 36-year-old hiv-negative woman with refractory crohn's disease of the colon and perineum following 11 months' treatment with azathioprine. the clinical features of this case are quite different from those classically described in kaposi's sarcoma. among the known risk factors, iatrogenic immunosuppression would appear to be the most probable.
multifocal colitis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea. an outbreak of a chronic diarrheal syndrome was detected between may and august 1987 in rural henderson county, illinois. seventy-two individuals were affected. epidemiological studies performed by the center for disease control implicated the water of a local restaurant as the source of the outbreak. five patients underwent a comprehensive evaluation. their mean age was 51 years, and they had a mean of 12 watery stools daily (range, 6-40). detailed microbiological evaluations failed to identify a pathological organism. stool studies showed a mean stool weight of 392 g/24 h with a normal fat content. results of all biochemical studies of serum were normal. chemical analysis of stool water suggested a secretory diarrhea. colonoscopy revealed patchy erythema, and light microscopic examination of colonic biopsy specimens revealed multifocal areas of acute inflammation in the superficial mucosa in 4 of 5 patients. electron microscopy of the affected areas revealed no viral particles. after 2 years, all of our patients continued to experience chronic diarrhea. one patient agreed to a follow-up colonoscopy; histological abnormalities of the colonic mucosa persisted after 2 years. we speculate that an infectious process arising from a contaminated water system induced a chronic, secretory diarrhea characterized by multifocal colitis. this histological abnormality may serve as a marker of an infectious, chronic diarrhea.
extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas: technique and results in 37 patients. although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) fistulas, this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy, anosmia, and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas. extracranial repair, on the other hand, produces no central nervous system morbidity, preserves olfaction, and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence. although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of csf fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists, this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature. we report here our experience with 37 patients with csf rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair. the etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22, traumatic in 6, and spontaneous in 9. the fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques: external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients, transmastoid in 9, transseptosphenoid in 7, and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3. in 32 of the 37 patients (86%) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure. of the 5 patients requiring a second operation, the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97%. complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis. the authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas, extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of csf rhinorrhea and otorrhea.
clinical outcome of seriously ill surgical patients with intra-abdominal infection depends on both physiologic (apache ii score) and immunologic (dth score) alterations. the delayed-type hypersensitivity (dth) response and the apache ii score in 118 patients with surgical infections were measured prospectively and related to outcome. logistic regression analysis generated the equation: [formula: see text]. the risk assessment as calculated by this model was compared to that using the apache ii system alone in a separate group of 354 patients. there was an improvement in the predictive capacity of the apache ii + dth equation compared to apache ii alone, as shown by a better fit of expected and observed deaths, an improved goodman-kruskal g statistic, and a larger area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. it is concluded that the dth response (a broad marker of immunocompetence) is an independent prognostic factor in surgical patients and can be used in combination with the apache ii score (a measure of acute physiology) to estimate better the outcome of surgical patients.
stroke recurrence within 2 years after ischemic infarction. we prospectively studied stroke recurrence in 1,273 patients with ischemic stroke who were entered into the stroke data bank. median follow-up was 13 months. the 2-year cumulative recurrence rate among these patients was 14.1%. age, sex, race, history of hypertension, atrial fibrillation, or transient ischemic attacks, and stroke location were not associated with a higher risk of stroke recurrence. patients with an elevated blood pressure, an abnormal initial computed tomogram, or a history of diabetes mellitus were at a higher risk of stroke recurrence. in contrast, patients with an infarct of unknown cause were at a lower risk of stroke recurrence than patients with a defined stroke mechanism, such as lacune, embolism, or atherosclerosis. a multivariate model suggests that patients at the lowest risk for stroke recurrence have a low diastolic blood pressure, no history of stroke, no history of diabetes mellitus, and an infarct of unknown cause.
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome. helicobacter pylori (previously campylobacter pylori) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease. the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown. we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome. h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic (elisa) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori. we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years, median age 51. six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease (p less than 0.05). pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr, median 35.2. pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr; median 52.7. acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients (bao 24.5 +/- 6.5 vs 45.4 +/- 6.6, and mao 44.3 +/- 11.8 vs 67.9 +/- 10.7, for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients, respectively). the difference in bao was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome. the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related.
acute pelvic inflammatory disease after surgical sterilization. study objective: physicians are very cognizant of the possibility of pregnancy after surgical sterilization, but the potential for acute pelvic inflammatory disease (pid) is thought to be rare. this study was undertaken to determine if upper tract pid occurred more frequently than previously reported in patients remote from surgical sterilization. design: retrospective review of hospitalized patients with the primary discharge diagnosis of pid. setting: urban, university hospital. participants: three hundred sixty-four hospitalized patients with the primary discharge diagnosis of pid over a six-year study period. measurements and main results: patients' age; gynecologic histories and diagnoses; and laboratory, clinical, and surgical findings were noted. twenty-three cases of acute pid were identified in 21 patients previously sterilized (6%). nine of the 23 cases had systemic toxicity warranting surgical evaluation; 18 of the 23 cases were admitted from the emergency department. mean statistical characteristics of the study group were age, 27.3 +/- 0.8 (se) years; time interval from sterilization, 49.8 +/- 7.4 months; wbc 15,000 +/- 1,200; and temperature, 38.0 +/- 0.2 c. conclusion: we conclude that acute pid may occur more frequently than previously reported in patients with prior surgical sterilization. an increased awareness of this entity is warranted.
dna aneuploidy in follicular thyroid neoplasia. the potential value of dna aneuploidy, in distinguishing benign from malignant follicular thyroid neoplasms, was studied. the nuclear dna content of 65 follicular thyroid neoplasms (52 adenomas and 13 carcinomas) was determined by flow cytometric analysis of paraffin embedded material; in 58 cases preparations were technically satisfactory. in 22 follicular neoplasms dna analysis was also performed on fresh material obtained by fine needle aspiration of surgical specimens. cell cycle analysis was performed on both fresh and fixed specimens. an aneuploid dna profile was found on analysis of fixed tissue in eight of 45 (18 per cent) follicular adenomas and four of 13 (31 per cent) follicular carcinomas. dna aneuploidy was also found in six of the 22 (27 per cent) fresh preparations from follicular adenomas. the frequency of dna aneuploidy in apparently benign and malignant follicular neoplasms was similar. follicular thyroid neoplasia are best regarded as a single entity with a low incidence of local and distant spread. all follicular neoplasia are therefore best excised.
post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer. is it necessary to resect all residual masses? a total of 15 patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer underwent 2 sequential operations (4 in 1 patient) to remove residual masses after cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy. all patients had normal human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha-fetoprotein levels but persistent radiographic masses after chemotherapy. the operations included retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in 13 patients, thoracotomy in 15, hepatic resection in 3 and craniotomy in 1. histological comparison of the specimens resected during post-chemotherapy operations 1 and 2 demonstrated different patterns in 7 of 15 patients. of these 7 patients 4 had less favorable pathological features in the specimen removed during the second procedure. residual malignant tumor or mature teratoma was found in at least 1 site in 12 of the 15 patients and only 3 had complete necrosis or fibrosis in both specimens examined. these data indicate the favorable impact of excising all post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer. however, in patients with no teratomatous elements in the testicular tumor and complete necrosis or fibrosis in the initial post-chemotherapy operation specimen the probability of complete necrosis or fibrosis in remaining tumors appears to be high.
methionine dependency of malignant tumors: a possible approach for therapy when methionine (met), an essential amino acid, was substituted for by its precursor homocysteine (hcy) in the culture medium, normal cells such as fibroblasts proliferated normally. in contrast, many tumor cells failed to grow or grew at a lower rate. met dependency is acquired simultaneously with cell transformation, as observed with hbl 100, a human mammary epithelial cell line that acquired increased malignancy as a function of in vitro passage number, and nih/3t3 (j10), a mouse fibroblast line transformed by transfection with the human hras oncogene. a relationship was observed between met dependency and metastatic potential of the rms-21, rms-s4t, and rms-j1 sublines derived from rms-0, a rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line: the higher the metastatic potential of the cell line, the higher the concentration of met required to maintain its proliferation. met-independent cells derived from the rms-0 line, obtained by a progressive decrease of met in the culture medium lost their tumorigenicity when injected into rats fed with met-deprived diets. in addition, the in vitro motility of rms-s4t tumor cells, a marker of metastatic capability, decreased in met-free hcy-complemented (met- hcy+) medium. similarly, rms-0 tumor cells, preincubated in a met- hcy+ culture medium for 24 hours, evidenced a decreased capacity to form lung colonies when injected into syngeneic rats: the median number of lung colonies was 27 and 3 (p less than .05) for cells cultivated in met+ hcy- and met- hcy+ media, respectively. an amino acid-defined mixture reproducing casein composition was used as a protein source in the diets fed to rms-j1 tumor-bearing rats. dietary substitution of hcy for met (i.e., met deprivation) resulted in decreased tumor growth (from 44.4 +/- 1.0 to 40.6 +/- 1.4; p less than .05) and prevention of metastatic spread (from 37 to 0; p less than .05). in conclusion, exogenous met can be substituted for hcy to maintain the survival of normal cells but is essential for tumor cell growth in vivo as well as in vitro. therefore, this defect of cancerous versus normal cells could be used for a therapeutic purpose.
cognitive deficits in children: adaptive behavior and treatment techniques. impaired cognitive functioning impedes the development of age-appropriate adaptive behavior, thus adding to the burdens of many children with epilepsy. detailed neuropsychological assessment can identify the underlying ability-related impairments that contribute to the adaptive behavior deficiencies evidenced, particularly in the home and school settings. this information can serve as the basis for a multidisciplinary treatment plan tailored to individual needs. ideally, the need for such a treatment plan should be perceived early in childhood, so that it can be developed and applied preventively. the same remedial principles also apply in older children and are here set out in detail.
upward shift of the lower range of coronary flow autoregulation in hypertensive patients with hypertrophy of the left ventricle background. at any given perfusion pressure, coronary reserve is expressed by the difference between autoregulated and maximally vasodilated flow. in hypertension the raised coronary resistance reduces the steepness of the pressure-flow relationship at maximal vasodilatation. in the presence of cardiac hypertrophy the line of autoregulated flow becomes higher. for these reasons coronary reserve is reduced and the point at which baseline flow approaches the maximal achievable flow might be shifted to a higher perfusion pressure. thus, any reduction below this elevated and critical value of pressure would lower the coronary flow. methods and results. the investigated patients were normotensive (controls, nine) and hypertensive with normal (group i, seven) or augmented lv mass index because of concentric lv hypertrophy (group ii, eight). all had effort-induced angina and angiographically normal left epicardial branches. flow in the great cardiac vein was measured by thermodilution in the baseline and during stepwise (5 mm hg every 5 minutes) decrease of the coronary perfusion pressure with a titrated nitroprusside i.v. infusion; perfusion pressures of 60 mm hg in the controls and 70 mm hg in the hypertensives were taken as end points. baseline flow averaged 102 ml/min in normotensives, 104 ml/min in hypertensive group i and 148 ml/min in hypertensive group ii. at the end points flow was similar to baseline in the controls and group i. in group ii coronary flow started to decline and myocardial o2 extraction started to slightly but significantly rise at perfusion pressures of 90-80 mm hg; at the end point flow was reduced by 26% (p less than 0.01 from baseline). the perfusion patterns did not seem to be related to the changes in tension-time index and heart rate. conclusions. the association of high blood pressure (reduced ability of the coronary arterioles to dilate) and hypertrophy of the myocardium (augmented baseline coronary flow) may shift the point of exhaustion of coronary reserve to a higher perfusion pressure and make the myocardium vulnerable to treatment-induced relative hypertension.
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of doxacurium in normal patients and in those with hepatic or renal failure. we determined the pharmacokinetics and duration of action of a bolus dose of doxacurium (15 micrograms/kg) in 27 patients anesthetized with isoflurane and nitrous oxide. nine patients had normal renal and liver functions and were undergoing a variety of surgical procedures, nine were undergoing cadaveric kidney transplantation because of end-stage renal disease, and nine were undergoing cadaveric liver transplantation because of end-stage hepatocellular disease. plasma concentrations of doxacurium were measured for 6 h after administration using a sensitive and specific capillary gas chromatographic assay. plasma concentration versus time data were analyzed by a noncompartmental method based on statistical moments. neuromuscular blockade was assessed by measuring the electromyographic evoked response of the adductor pollicis muscle to train-of-four stimulation of the ulnar nerve. the degree of neuromuscular blockade after doxacurium administration was described as the percent of control of the first train-of-four response. the pharmacokinetic variables were (normal vs hepatic failure vs renal failure, respectively): volume of distribution at steady state (220 +/- 110 vs 290 +/- 60 vs 270 +/- 130 ml/kg [mean +/- sd]), plasma clearance (2.7 +/- 1.6 vs 2.3 +/- 0.4 vs 1.2 +/- 0.7 ml.kg-1.min-1), mean residence time (95.2 +/- 57 vs 129.4 +/- 30 vs 270 +/- 210 min), and elimination half-life (99 +/- 54 vs 115 +/- 31 vs 221 +/- 156 min). plasma clearance and mean residence time differed significantly between patients with renal failure and control patients.
epidural haematoma requiring surgical decompression following repeated cervical epidural steroid injections for chronic pain. we report a case of epidural haematoma following a steroid injection into the cervical epidural space. the complication occurred on the seventh such injection over a 2 year period for chronic spinal pain. surgical decompression over the seventh cervical and the upper 3 thoracic vertebrae was required to alleviate the symptoms of paralysis and anaesthesia. the patient subsequently required skin grafting to the surgical site and two trans-urethral resections of the prostate gland during his 6 week hospital admission. he made a full recovery.
activation of erythropoietin receptors by friend viral gp55 and by erythropoietin and down-modulation by the murine fv-2r resistance gene. the leukemogenic membrane glycoprotein (gp55) encoded by friend spleen focus-forming virus appears to bind to erythropoietin receptors (epor) sto stimulate erythroblastosis [li, j.-p., d'andrea, a.d., lodish, h.f. & baltimore, d. (1990) nature (london) 343, 762-764]. to directly compare the effects of gp55 with erythropoietin (epo), we produced retrovirions that encode either gp55, epo, or epor. after infection with epor virus, interleukin 3-dependent da-3 cells bound 125i-labeled epo and grew without interleukin 3 in the presence of epo. these latter cells, but not parental da-3 cells, became factor-independent after superinfection either with epo virus or with friend spleen focus-forming virus. in addition, epo virus caused a disease in mice that mimicked friend erythroleukemia. although fv-2r homozygotes are susceptible to all other retroviral diseases, they are resistant to both epo viral and friend viral erythroleukemias. these results indicate that both gp55 and epo stimulate epor and that the fv-2 gene encodes a protein that controls response to these ligands. however, the fv-2 protein is not epor because the corresponding genes map to opposite ends of mouse chromosome 9. these results have important implications for understanding signal transduction by epor and the role of host genetic variation in controlling susceptibility to an oncogenic protein.
the surgical pathologist's role in liver transplantation. liver transplantation has become an option in treating a wide variety of diseases. the surgical pathologist, as a member of the transplantation team, is increasingly involved in the evaluation of allograft dysfunction. interpretation of the liver allograft biopsy specimen requires integration of clinical history, biochemical data, and histologic patterns of a wide variety of lesions, including harvesting injury, vascular thrombosis, rejection, infection, and recurrent disease. this article reviews the varied histologic appearances of the more common forms of liver allograft injury, the contexts in which they arise, and their distinction from one another.
relation between three-dimensional geometry of the inflow tract to the orifice and the area, shape, and velocity of regurgitant color doppler jets: an in vitro study. the relation between three-dimensional geometry of the inflow tract to the orifice and the area, shape, and velocity of regurgitant jets was studied in a pulsatile in vitro color doppler flow model. a 2.5 mhz transducer connected to a diagnostic ultrasound machine was placed in a water tank facing pulsatile jets (duration, 0.5 second) obtained by a calibrated injector. flow rate from 6 to 52 ml/sec were tested through a 5 mm diameter circular orifice. four different three-dimensional inflow tract geometries were compared: (a) sharp-edged, (b) venturi (funnel), (c) converging conical, and (d) diverging conical. mean velocities of jets were measured by continuous-wave doppler echocardiography. driving pressures were also measured by means of a fluid-filled catheter. two observers independently digitized contours of maximal color jet areas by computer system from two separate sets of experiments. results are given as the mean values of the four measurements for each parameter. jet areas were correlated to flow rate, with no difference from a through d. the shape (eccentricity) of jets was different between a and b (p less than 0.05), between b and d (p less than 0.01), and between c and d (p less than 0.01). the shape of jets was correlated with flow rate, continuous-wave velocity, and pressure gradient in b, c, and d but not in a. measured pressure gradients and estimated gradients by continuous-wave doppler echocardiography were similarly correlated from a through d.
comparative ophthalmologic studies on children and adults with craniopharyngiomas. the subjects of the study are 74 patients with craniopharyngiomas treated at the clinic of neurosurgery, bulgarian medical academy, within the period 1960-1989. fifty of the patients are children and 24 adults. the diagnosis of all patients is made on the base of clinical, x-ray and histological studies. the ophthalmologic state was studied in all patients, prior to operation, via routine methods. reduced visual acuity was established in 69.6% of the children and 81.8% of the adults. the presence of congestive optic papilla was diagnosed in 22% of the children and 12.5% of the adults. optic atrophy was established in 62.5% of the adults and 52% of the children. various defects in the visual field were established in 67.7% of the children and 81.8% of the adults with the predomination of bitemporal defects. the use of highly informative conventional and modern x-ray methods is recommended in all patients suspected of compression of the visual pathways.
strong association of hla-drw9 in chinese patients with recurrent oral ulcers. the frequency of hla-dr and -dq antigen occurrence was investigated in 80 chinese patients with recurrent oral ulcers and 107 matched healthy control subjects of the same ethnic group. no significant differences in the presence of hla-dq antigens were found. however, the hla-drw9 antigen occurs more frequently in patients with recurrent oral ulcers (p less than 0.0001, corrected p less than 0.005) and may be considered as a genetic marker of the disease in the chinese population.
naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms. forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2-year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk. patients were divided into two groups for analysis. twenty-four patients, who were treated from january 1984 to december 1986, did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration (group a). twenty-three patients, who were treated from january 1987 to august 1989, had spinal fluid drainage (group b); 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery. permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven (29%) group a patients but in only one (4%) group b patient, who did not receive naloxone (p less than 0.03). the first two group b patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia. this significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate (72% in group a, 91% in group b). we conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms. this reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term. the observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia.
optimal escort for interhospital transport of pediatric emergencies. the charts of 130 seriously ill or injured children transported to tertiary level intensive care were examined to determine the incidence of secondary insults incurred, as a function of escort training. of all insults incurred, approximately 8% occurred with specialized pediatric transport escorts who were accompanied by a tertiary care physician (group iii, n = 52); 20% with specialized pediatric transport escorts alone (group ii, n = 44); and 72% with escorts who had not received specialized pediatric transport training (group i, n = 34). based on our results, we recommend that all transport coordinators review the qualifications and experience of their transport team members and all potential escorts to assess their ability to provide optimal care for the children they transport, particularly during long journeys, transfer by air, and when serious illness or injury is involved.
inflammatory response in retrieved noncemented porous-coated implants. one hundred forty-six noncemented porous-coated hip and knee implants retrieved from 97 patients were evaluated histologically for the type, amount, and anatomic distribution of tissue ingrowth. the degree of inflammatory cell infiltrate present was also evaluated and the predominant cell type was identified. an inflammatory infiltrate was present in the components of 21 of 97 patients (22%). in 16 of the 21 cases the infiltrate was lymphocytes and histiocytes with a minor population of plasma cells. one of the remaining five cases had a predominately plasma cell reaction, and the other four had significant populations of plasma cells. vascular proliferation was observed in nine of the 21 cases. bone ingrowth was present in ten of the 21 cases. a 38% incidence of removal for persistent pain was present in cases with an inflammatory infiltrate. seventeen of 87 patients (20%) with cobalt-chromium devices and four of ten patients (40%) with titanium devices were identified as having an inflammatory infiltrate. the origin of the inflammatory infiltrate is unclear. all patients with inflammatory infiltrates had noninfected implants, which were not loose roentgenographically or clinically at the time of removal. hypersensitivity and allergic responses to metal ions may produce such infiltrates. it is impossible, however, in the present study to definitively determine the etiology of the infiltrates.
anorectal surgery in the hiv+ patient: update. anorectal surgery in hiv+ patients historically has been viewed with a great deal of nihilism. advances in medical therapy and better understanding of unique pathophysiologic processes have afforded the colorectal surgeon the ability to treat better and sometimes cure the anorectal complications of aids. we present a series of 75 consecutive surgical procedures (1-year accrual) on hiv+ (40) and cdc aids (22) patients. surgical procedures, perioperative t cell counts, and outcome will be presented; 53 percent of procedures resulted in complete healing of anal wounds; 30 percent resulted in partial healing with symptomatic relief; 17 percent resulted in symptomatic relief or tissue diagnosis without appreciable wound healing. the healing rate was significantly higher in the hiv+ group (69 percent) compared to the aids group (26 percent). perioperative t cell counts did not have predictive value on outcome. no patients suffered significant unexpected morbidity, mortality, or incontinence. pathophysiologic mechanisms of several disease processes unique to hiv+ patients and data from our ongoing investigation using rna hybridization are presented.
comparison of the antihypertensive effects of delapril and enalapril. the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors delapril and enalapril were compared in a double-blind, randomized, parallel study. the population included 142 patients with essential hypertension who were treated with delapril and 140 treated with enalapril. at the end of a 2 week initial placebo period, the diastolic blood pressure of these patients ranged from 95 to 115 mm hg in the sitting position. after this placebo period, randomization took place. patients in the delapril group received 15 mg of the drug twice daily. treatment with enalapril was started with a daily dose of 10 mg. if the diastolic blood pressure did not fall to less than or equal to 90 mm hg or at least by 15 mm hg after 2 weeks of treatment, the doses of the ace inhibitors were doubled. after another 2 weeks, 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily was added if the target level of diastolic blood pressure was not reached. both drugs caused a similar decrease of systolic and diastolic blood pressure. the antihypertensive effect of both ace inhibitors was increased by the addition of the diuretic. the frequency and severity of side effects were similar in the two groups of patients. it is concluded from this study that delapril and enalapril do not differ in antihypertensive efficacy nor in safety.
recreational sun exposure in puerto rico: trends and cancer risk awareness. persons who sunbathe or engage in other activities at the beach are exposed to large amounts of uv radiation. four hundred seven adults who visited the beaches of puerto rico were surveyed to determine their knowledge about the risks of sun exposure and to evaluate sunscreen use. the group consisted of 195 year-round puerto rican residents and 212 tourists. ninety-five percent believed that the sun can cause skin cancer, although only half of the subset who lived all year in puerto rico believed that they personally received enough exposure to be at risk. the majority of the group (83%) understood the meaning of the sun protection factor numbers, although 35% used either nothing or a nonscreening oil. half of puerto rican residents rarely or never used sunscreen protection while sunbathing. when sunscreen was used, the most important factor sought was given as sun protection factor (64%), followed by a perceived ability to aid in tanning (26%).
an analysis of the results of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast. three hundred and fifty-three women underwent 358 biopsies of the breast for nonpalpable mammographic lesions during a five year period. cancer was identified in 95 (27 per cent). mammographic findings in the patients with cancer were calcifications only (54 per cent), a mass (27 per cent), a mass with calcifications (15 per cent), an asymmetric distortion (1 per cent) and an asymmetric distortion with calcifications (3 per cent). cancer was identified in 29 per cent of the biopsies done for calcifications, 20 per cent of those done for a mass with calcifications, 6 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion and 38 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion with calcifications. forty-nine per cent of the mammographically suspicious calcifications were cancer, while 100 per cent of the indeterminate calcifications were benign. forty-five per cent of the spiculated masses were cancerous, while only 3 per cent of the circumscribed masses were malignant. for those patients with carcinoma undergoing axillary lymph node dissection, 13 per cent had one or more positive nodes. a strategy for increasing the effectiveness of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast is presented.
capsular genu syndrome. we report 5 patients with unilateral infarct and 1 with hemorrhage limited to the genu of the internal capsule. the most prominent finding was contralateral facial and lingual hemiparesis with dysarthria. three patients also showed unilateral mastication-palatal-pharyngeal weakness, and 1 had unilateral vocal cord paresis. mild limb involvement was limited to hand weakness in 4 patients. our findings suggest that the majority of motor corticopontine and corticocobulbar fibers are located in the genu of the internal capsule. the faciolingual syndrome and its variants are highly suggestive of capsular genu stroke.
mtdna depletion with variable tissue expression: a novel genetic abnormality in mitochondrial diseases. we studied two related infants with a fatal mitochondrial disease, affecting muscle in one and liver in the other. quantitative analysis revealed a severe depletion of mtdna in affected tissues. this genetic abnormality was also observed in muscle of an unrelated infant with myopathy and in muscle and kidney of a fourth child with myopathy and nephropathy. biochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and in situ hybridization showed that the depletion of mtdna in muscle fibers was correlated with a respiratory chain defect and with lack of mitochondrially translated proteins. although the differential tissue involvement in these infants suggests mtdna heteroplasmy, sequence analysis of mtdna replication origins did not reveal any abnormality that could account for the low copy number.
ondansetron: a new entity in emesis control. nausea and vomiting are serious problems for patients receiving cancer chemotherapy. dopamine receptor and cholinergic receptor antagonism have been the target mechanism for agents used to combat drug-induced nausea and vomiting; more recently, blockade of serotonin receptors has been used for this indication. current therapies are limited by extrapyramidal adverse effects, as well as drowsiness, sedation, respiratory depression, and cardiac effects. ondansetron is an investigational serotonin antagonist that has documented effectiveness for cancer chemotherapy-induced emesis. ondansetron appears to be well tolerated, with the possible exception of headaches and transient increases in liver enzymes. no extrapyramidal toxicities have been reported with this agent. while ondansetron looks promising, further studies are needed to fully define its role as an antiemetic.
stroke volume during submaximal exercise in endurance-trained normotensive subjects and in untrained hypertensive subjects with beta blockade (propranolol and pindolol). the effect of beta-adrenergic blockade on stroke volume (sv) at increasing submaximal exercise intensities was studied in 12 endurance-trained normotensive and 12 untrained hypertensive (diastolic blood pressure greater than 95 mm hg) men, aged 18 to 34 years. subjects were assigned to each of 3 treatments in a double-blind, randomized order: placebo, propranolol (80 mg twice daily) and pindolol (10 mg twice daily) for 10 days, with a period of 48 to 60 hours from the initial dose to the first treadmill test and a 4-day washout period between drugs. cardiac output was measured using the carbon dioxide rebreathing method and sv was calculated from cardiac output and heart rate as follows: sv = cardiac output/heart rate. cardiac outputs were estimated at rest and while walking on a treadmill at 25, 45, 60 and 75% of the subject's previously determined maximal oxygen uptake (vo2max). no significant differences were found in cardiac output between either of the drugs and placebo at rest, or at any of the 4 rates of work. propranolol significantly increased sv above placebo values (p less than 0.05) for both trained and untrained groups at the intensities of 45, 60 and 75%. significant differences in sv were found between pindolol and placebo only at the intensities of 60 and 75% in the trained group. contrary to expectations, sv showed no indication of a plateau with propranolol in the trained subjects throughout the 4 different exercise intensities, whereas a plateau was established under placebo conditions by 45% of vo2max in both trained and untrained subjects. these results suggest that both trained and untrained hypertensive persons can exercise with beta-adrenergic blockade at submaximal levels without compromised cardiac function.
chylous ascites should suggest constrictive pericarditis even in a patient with cirrhosis. chylous ascites, a milky, high triglyceride fluid is usually found in patients with lymphatic obstruction from malignancy. we describe a patient with cirrhosis who developed constrictive pericarditis and chylous ascites. long-standing portal hypertension compounded by elevated central venous pressure provided several pathophysiologic contributions to the formation of the chylous ascites. chylous ascites even in a cirrhotic requires prompt assessment for conditions leading to elevated central venous pressure.
"spontaneous sump syndrome": successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy. "sump syndrome" is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal, nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile, gastrointestinal contents, and debris accumulate. we report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula, and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses. the patient's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics. this case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously, that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation, and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy.
acute respiratory failure and pulmonary thrombosis in leukemic children. acute respiratory failure (arf) in an 11-year-old child with pre-t acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) at the beginning of induction therapy was observed, connected with a pulmonary thrombosis and not with an infective origin. a systematic search for this pathology identified six other children with the same pulmonary complication, five of whom where in the early phase of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (anll) and one in induction therapy for all in marrow relapse. at the beginning of the symptomatology, all children presented severe hypoxia and hypercapnia, with no or minimal chest radiograph abnormalities and no clear hemodynamic involvement. in all patients the arteriography and nuclear imaging studies confirmed the diagnosis. the causes of the thrombi could be connected with neoplastic emboli after cell lysis and/or with the vascular damage resulting from antiblastic therapy. intravenous urokinase treatment and respiratory assistance had been successfully carried out in six of seven children.
can concomitant restriction be detected in adult men with airflow obstruction? a reduction in lung volume is used to diagnose physiologic restriction in the pulmonary function tests of patients with lung disease. airflow obstruction is commonly associated with hyperinflation of static lung volume. because restriction and obstruction exert opposite effects on lung volumes, we questioned whether the lack of hyperinflation of static lung volumes could indicate the presence of concomitant restriction in patients with airflow obstructive ventilatory defects. to assess this, we evaluated by pulmonary function tests and chest roentgenograms of 58 patients with airflow obstruction (group 1), 18 of whom then sustained various types of resection for lung cancer (group 2) as a type of superimposed restriction. we selected 80 percent of predicted as the lower limit of "normal" frequently used by clinical pulmonary function laboratories. despite a statistically significant decrease in total lung capacity (p less than 0.05) for the postpneumonectomy patients, when the static lung volume measurements of the patients with resection were evaluated, no one lung volume showed a consistent reduction sufficient to detect the superimposed restriction in all these patients. using 80 percent of predicted as "normal," 61 percent of our patients with airflow obstruction and superimposed restriction would have been missed. we conclude that it is clinically difficult, based on only static lung volume measurements alone, to detect restriction superimposed on the hyperinflation of airflow obstruction unless these lung volumes are reduced to below accepted "normal" limits.
interatrial shunt flow profiles in newborn infants: a colour flow and pulsed doppler echocardiographic study. interatrial shunt flow profiles in 36 normal term infants were examined serially by colour flow and pulsed doppler echocardiographic techniques from within an hour of birth to four or five days after birth. shunt flow across the foramen ovale was detected in 33 normal infants (92%) within an hour of birth (mean 40 minutes). the occurrence of interatrial shunting decreased with age, but a shunt signal was still detected in 17 infants (47%) on the fourth or fifth day of life, by then the ductus arteriosus had already closed in all the normal infants. the direction of interatrial shunt flow was predominantly left-to-right, but in 64% there was a coexistent small right-to-left shunt in diastole within an hour of birth; by four to five days it was found in 19%. in the six patients with persistent fetal circulation the direction of the interatrial shunt flow was predominantly right-to-left with biphasic peaks in diastole and systole at the early stage of the disease, and the period of right-to-left shunt flow during each cardiac cycle was significantly longer than that in normal infants examined within 1 hour of birth. in all patients the ductus closed before the foramen ovale. at the time of ductal closure in all patients with persistent fetal circulation right-to-left shunt flow was seen during diastole and its period was still prolonged. these findings suggest that interatrial shunting, predominantly left-to-right, is common in normal newborn infants.
adrenal insufficiency in the cancer patient: implications for the surgeon. aspects of acute and chronic adrenal insufficiency of interest to surgeons who treat cancer patients are reviewed. clinical features and the management of both primary and secondary types are considered with reference to classification, aetiology, diagnosis and treatment. specifically considered are the management of patients with addison's disease and metastases. prompt recognition and treatment of adrenal insufficiency can avert potentially life-threatening situations.
verbal memory impairment correlates with hippocampal pyramidal cell density. thirty-five patients with medically refractory epilepsy localized to the temporal lobe (18 left, 17 right) completed the verbal selective reminding test before surgery. verbal memory impairments existed before surgery regardless of the lateralization of the seizure focus, but patients with left temporal seizure foci were significantly more impaired. after surgical removal of the mesial temporal lobe structures, 2 blinded observers established volumetric cell densities for hippocampal subfields ca1, ca2, ca3, the hilar area, and the granule cell layer of the area dentata. statistically significant correlations existed between presurgical memory impairment and cell counts (in ca3 and the hilar area, only) for patients with left temporal seizure foci. these findings support the hippocampal model of memory and complement prior research documenting the memory impairments present after surgical removal of the mesial temporal structures.
electrical pacing for dynamic treatment of unilateral vocal cord paralysis. experiment in long-denervated muscle. in order to explore the possibility of clinical application of laryngeal pacing as a treatment for unilateral vocal cord paralysis, we examined the reactivity of atrophic muscle to electrical stimulation in dogs whose recurrent laryngeal nerves were damaged by crushing, dissection followed by resuturing, or a 3-cm neurectomy. the threshold level to induce enough vocal cord adduction reached the maximum at 2 weeks after nerve injury, decreased with time, and never surpassed 7 v in each case. on the basis of results of these preliminary probings, laryngeal pacing was conducted on a dog 15 months after resection of the laryngeal nerve. adduction of the paralyzed vocal cord for synchrony with the intact cord was achieved by 7 v of electrical stimulation of the thyroarytenoid muscle that was triggered by signals from the cricothyroid muscle.
surgical correction of hydrothorax from diaphragmatic eventration in children on peritoneal dialysis. continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) is frequently used in the pediatric age group for reversible and end-stage renal failure. most pediatric patients tolerate this therapy with few complications. approximately 2% of children, however, develop massive unilateral hydrothorax. this major complication usually results in the discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in all forms and the institution of hemodialysis. occult diaphragmatic defects account for most adult and pediatric patients who develop this complication. three pediatric patients receiving capd complicated by massive hydrothorax are described. all patients were successfully treated by thoracotomy and repair of the diaphragmatic eventration with an immediate return to capd. this is the first report of successful therapy of this kind in children. a review of the cause, diagnosis, and treatment of massive hydrothorax developing during capd therapy is presented.
lack of late skin necrosis in man after high-dose irradiation using small field sizes: experiences of grid therapy. out of a total of 437 patients with superior vena caval syndrome or advanced malignancy, given single-dose grid radiotherapy, four survived to 7 years. the dose to the skin under each of the 77 holes in the grid was approximately 58 gy. the lack of skin necrosis in the total of 308 skin circles of 1 cm diameter among these survivors, compared with known necrosis rates in larger irradiated areas, implies that there is a marked field-size effect for late necrosis in small areas of irradiated skin.
coronary angioplasty after coronary bypass surgery: initial results and late outcome in 422 patients. from 1978 to 1988, coronary angioplasty was performed in 422 patients with prior coronary artery bypass surgery (264 patients with native coronary artery angioplasty and 158 patients with graft angioplasty). angioplasty was successful in 84%, unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 11% and complicated by one or more major cardiac events in 5% (myocardial infarction 5%, emergency bypass surgery 2% and death 0.2%). follow-up data were obtained in 99% of 356 patients with successful angioplasty. at a mean of 33 +/- 26 months, 92% were alive, 73% had improvement in angina and 61% were free of angina. one or more of the following late events occurred in 67 patients (19%): myocardial infarction (6%), elective reoperation (13%) and cardiac death (6%). repeat angioplasty was performed in 27%, with a success rate of 89% and no deaths. initial success rates were equal in native vessel versus graft angioplasty, but late outcome was less favorable with the latter because of a higher rate of infarction (11% versus 4%, p less than 0.05) and need for reoperation (19% versus 10%, p less than 0.05). the initial success rate was higher in vein grafts less than 1 year old compared with grafts 1 to 4 years or greater than 4 years after operation (92% versus 85% versus 83%, respectively) and adverse late events were less frequent after angioplasty in recent vein grafts (less than 1 year 13%, 1 to 4 years 35%, greater than 4 years 29%; less than 1 versus greater than 1 year, p less than 0.05).
distribution of three alpha-chain beta-hexosaminidase a mutations among tay-sachs carriers. dna from 176 carriers of the tay-sachs gene was tested for the presence of the three mutations most commonly found among ashkenazi jews: the so-called insertion, splice junction, and adult mutations. among 148 ashkenazi jews tested, 108 had the insertion mutation, 26 had the splice junction mutation, five had the adult mutation, and nine had none of the three. among 28 non-jewish carriers tested, most of whom were obligate carriers, four had the insertion mutation, one had the adult mutation, and the remaining 23 had none of the three.
role of membrane proteins in monosodium urate crystal-membrane interactions. ii. effect of pretreatments of erythrocyte membranes with membrane permeable and impermeable protein crosslinking agents. intact, human erythrocytes were pretreated with membrane permeable, dimethyl adipimidate (dma) and dimethyl suberimidate (dms) and membrane impermeable 3,3' dithiobis (sulfosuccinimidylpropionate) (dtssp) protein crosslinking agents and incubated with monosodium urate monohydrate (msum) crystals. the percent inhibition of lysis values for pretreated cells relative to untreated cells were determined. all 3 agents caused a concentration dependent inhibition of msum induced hemolysis that was not due to a decrease in msum binding to the pretreated membranes. it was proposed that the inhibition of lysis was due to crosslinking of integral and cytoskeletal membrane proteins, resulting in a reduced mobility of the proteins, inhibition of lateralization of integral proteins into aggregates and decreased "pore" formation in the membrane.
otogenic fusobacterium necrophorum meningitis. a case of meningitis secondary to acute suppurative otitis media in a previously healthy child is reported. the only organism isolated from blood after aerobic and prolonged anaerobic culture was identified as fusobacterium necrophorum. complete recovery followed treatment with surgery and prolonged antibiotic therapy. the role of anaerobes in the development of meningitis, the isolation and identification of fusobacterium necrophorum, the clinical presentations of f. necrophorum infection and the choice of antibiotics in the treatment of these infections are discussed.
prevalence and association of asteroid hyalosis with systemic diseases. we performed a cross-sectional study of 12,205 patients, which identified 101 patients (0.83%) with asteroid hyalosis. these patients were examined for associated systemic and ocular conditions. diabetes mellitus was found in 29 of the patients with asteroid hyalosis (29%), as compared to ten of 101 (10%) control subjects (p = .0007). an increased prevalence of systemic arterial hypertension (61 of 101 [60%] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 29 of 101 [29%] control subjects; p = .0001) and atherosclerotic vascular disease (30 of 101 [30%] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 13 of 101 [13%] control subjects; p = .006) was also discovered in the asteroid hyalosis group. additionally, patients with asteroid hyalosis were found to be more hyperopic than control subjects (p = .009).
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy. we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression. six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly (group 1), and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia (group 2). eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months. in group 1, 1 patient died and 3 patients (50%) experienced recurrent respiratory distress. five infants sustained a major postoperative complication, and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days. in group 2, however, aortopexy was uniformly successful. there were no deaths, no postoperative complications, and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress, and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days. for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia, aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality. great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes.
leukotriene synthesis inhibition and receptor blockade do not inhibit hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in sheep. several lines of evidence suggest that leukotrienes may be mediators of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (hpv). however, the effect of leukotriene inhibition on hpv remains controversial. the present study investigated the effect of leukotriene synthesis inhibition and receptor blockade on hpv in the halothane-anesthetized sheep. after initial baseline measurements, the pulmonary pressor response to 15 min of global hypoxia (fio2 = 0.13) was measured. a second set of baseline measurements was obtained and the sheep then received the combined cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase inhibitor bw755c, the selective lipoxygenase inhibitor u60257, or the leukotriene receptor antagonist ly171883. hemodynamic measurements were obtained after drug administration and during a subsequent hypoxic challenge (fio2 = 0.13). initial hypoxic challenge increased pulmonary artery pressure 68% and increased pulmonary vascular resistance 104%. pulmonary hemodynamics after recovery from hypoxia were similar to initial baseline values. drug administration had no significant hemodynamic effect. hypoxic challenge after drug administration resulted in a pulmonary pressor response identical to the initial hypoxic challenge. because leukotriene synthesis inhibition and receptor blockade did not alter the response to hypoxia, we conclude that leukotrienes are not obligatory mediators of hpv. a critical review of the literature supports a modulatory rather than an obligatory role for leukotrienes in hpv.
duplex scanning of normal or minimally diseased carotid arteries: correlation with arteriography and clinical outcome. this study evaluated the role of duplex scanning in the management of patients with normal or minimally diseases carotid arteries. carotid duplex scans were interpreted according to previously established criteria and considered normal when pulsed doppler spectral waveforms showed laminar flow or only minor flow disturbances. normal flow patterns were noted by duplex scanning in 100 carotid bifurcations of 72 patients who also underwent carotid arteriography. neurologic symptoms (amaurosis fugax, transient ischemic attack, or stroke) were present in relation to 23 arteries and absent in relation to 77 arteries. on the 23 symptomatic sides arteriography was interpreted as normal in eight, 1% to 15% stenosis in 14, and 16% to 40% stenosis in one. for the 77 asymptomatic sides, arteriography showed normal vessels in 15, 1% to 15% stenosis in 43, and 16% to 40% stenosis in 19. one symptomatic patient was treated by carotid endarterectomy for an irregular 1% to 15% stenosis. none of the asymptomatic lesions were in the range of 80% to 99% stenosis, which would justify endarterectomy for asymptomatic disease. clinical follow-up for a mean interval of 28 months on 20 of the 22 symptomatic patients not undergoing surgery revealed no strokes and transient recurrent symptoms in two patients. assuming that the single operation in this study was indicated, duplex scanning correctly identified lesions not requiring carotid endarterectomy in 96% (22/23) of the symptomatic patients. a normal duplex scan also predicted a benign clinical outcome without operation. duplex scanning can reliably exclude surgically treatable carotid bifurcation lesions in asymptomatic patients, and endarterectomy is rarely indicated in symptomatic patients with normal duplex scan results. this study supports a nonoperative therapeutic approach for most patients with neurologic symptoms and a normal carotid duplex scan on the appropriate side.
clinicopathological features of elevated lesions of the duodenal bulb. we present here our findings on patients with an elevated lesion of the duodenal bulb. all these patients were treated in our clinics between the years 1984 and 1988. these lesions were present in 36 of 8,802 patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal pan-endoscopy. two patients had a duodenal carcinoma, 2 an adenoma, and 1 a brunner's gland adenoma. there were 15 with a hyperplastic polyp, 3 with a heterogenic gastric mucosa, 3 with brunner's gland hyperplasia, 6 with duodenitis, and 4 with regenerative mucosa. among these 36 lesions, only 69% (25 lesions) were evident on the upper gastrointestinal x-ray series. adenoma and brunner's gland adenoma were of a pedunculated form of the gross type and had an irregular surface mucosa. both duodenal carcinomas were detected by endoscopic biopsy and were resected. histologically, these lesions were limited to the submucosal layer and were of the non-pedunculated polypoid form, but there were no other characteristic endoscopic features, in comparison with other elevated lesions. thus, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with routine observations of the duodenal bulb plus endoscopic biopsy will lead to a definite diagnosis of these elevated lesions and to the early detection and treatment of this rare malignant lesion.
rhabdomyosarcomas in the head and neck: mr imaging evaluation. to determine the typical magnetic resonance (mr) signal intensity characteristics of rhabdomyosarcomas, short repetition time (tr)/short echo time (te) (t1-weighted) and long tr (proton density and t2-weighted) images of 13 patients with rhabdomyosarcomas of the head and neck were retrospectively reviewed. seven patients received gadopentetate dimeglumine injections. the most common mr appearance was that of a homogeneous mass, hyperintense to both muscle and fat on long tr/long te images and isointense or minimally hyperintense to muscle on short tr/short te images. all lesions of the patients who received gadopentetate dimeglumine enhanced markedly. two lesions had intratumoral hemorrhage, and six were markedly heterogeneous in signal intensity. similar mr signal intensity patterns have been described for lymphomas and nasopharyngeal carcinomas. the forte of mr imaging lies in its ability to delineate precisely the extent of the rhabdomyosarcoma.
the prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease. this case report describes the use of octreotide, a long-acting somatostatin analogue, in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease. this patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication. anaesthesia was induced with midazolam, fentanyl, and vecuronium, and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium. however, we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively, and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery.
long-term clinical results with the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft. from 1977 to 1987, 829 ionescu-shiley pericardial valves (shiley, inc., irvine, calif.) were implanted in 766 patients at the university of ottawa heart institute. there were 476 patients who had aortic valve replacement, 234 who had mitral valve replacement, and 44 who had double valve replacement. the standard-profile design was used in 508 patients and the low-profile design in 321 patients. follow-up was obtained for 97% of patients, with calculation of event-free probabilities. at 10 years the overall probability of freedom from structural failure was 48% +/- 7% after aortic valve replacement, 44% +/- 15% after mitral valve replacement, and 79% +/- 11% after double valve replacement. although at 5 years the probability of failure was statistically lower with the low-profile design, this favorability was lost by 6 years. freedom from structural failure was only 47% +/- 7% for the standard-profile valve at 10 years. thus the probability of freedom from reoperation was only 46% +/- 7% after aortic valve replacement, 39% +/- 6% after mitral valve replacement, and 65% +/- 20% after double valve replacement at 10 years. thromboembolism occurred in 69 patients, for a predicted freedom from this complication at 10 years of 79% +/- 3% after aortic, 73% +/- 7% after mitral, and 96% +/- 4% after double valve replacement. there were 31 cases of endocarditis. the 10-year predicted freedom from endocarditis, therefore, was 86% +/- 3% after aortic, 98% +/- 1% after mitral, and 97% +/- 1% after double valve replacement. a total of 221 operative and late deaths were recorded in this series. prosthetic valve failure accounted for 27% of late deaths. the 10-year survival rates were estimated to be 56% +/- 5% (aortic valve replacement), 54% +/- 6% (mitral valve replacement), and 51% +/- 8% (double valve replacement). we concluded that the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft provides less than optimal clinical performance and its use has been discontinued.
itraconazole in opportunistic mycoses: cryptococcosis and aspergillosis. striking results were obtained with oral itraconazole therapy in two opportunistic mycoses. of 28 patients with cryptococcal meningitis, 18 achieved complete responses, including 16 of 24 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. other manifestations of cryptococcosis were similarly responsive. in aspergillosis 12 of 15 patients responded, including 8 of 10 immunocompromised hosts. these patients included those with invasive pulmonary disease (4/5), skeletal disease (2/2), pleural disease (1/2), and pericardial, sinus, mastoid, hepatosplenic, or nail disease (1/1). these results with itraconazole compare favorably to conventional (parenteral) therapy, and toxicity was minimal. this suggests that comparative trials are now in order.
tyrosine-rich crystalloids in a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma. a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma with tyrosine-rich crystalloid deposits is reported. the literature is reviewed, and diagnostic and histogenetic implications of this finding are discussed.
streptococcus bovis meningitis: report of 2 cases. we describe 2 cases of streptococcus bovis meningitis and review the 9 cases previously reported. this microorganism is a rare cause of meningitis in which there are no distinctive clinical or laboratory features. the gram stain of the csf is usually negative. ten of the 11 cases had some underlying disease or comorbid condition that predisposed to s bovis infection: gastrointestinal disorder, endocarditis, csf leak, polymyalgia rheumatica, and mandibular block. treatment with high-dose penicillin is usually adequate.
third ventricle cavernous angioma: report of two cases. cavernous angioma arising in the third ventricle is an extremely rare disease. we have reviewed five cases previously reported, as well as our own two cases, and discuss the clinical characteristics of and surgical approach to cavernous angioma at this site. the bifrontal craniotomy and interhemispheric translamina terminalis approach minimize the damage to the brain and allow for an approach to the third ventricle in a wide operative field with minimal compression of the brain itself. we have found this approach to be suitable for surgery on angiomas of the anterior half of the third ventricle.
partial characterization of chlamydia trachomatis isolates resistant to multiple antibiotics. in vitro susceptibility testing was done on urogenital isolates of chlamydia trachomatis from five patients, four of whom were suspected treatment failures. at least one isolate from each patient was resistant to tetracycline at concentrations greater than or equal to micrograms/ml, although less than 1% of a population of organisms showed high-level resistance. fully resistant populations selected by passage through 8 micrograms/ml tetracycline either died or lost their resistance on further passage in antibiotic-free medium. relatively large inocula were required to demonstrate resistance, and morphology of inclusions was altered at high tetracycline concentrations. the observed resistance may be a new characteristic of the organism or merely newly recognized. isolates resistant to tetracycline were resistant to doxycycline, erythromycin, sulfamethoxazole, and clindamycin but sensitive to rifampin, ciprofloxacin, and ofloxacin. thus, resistance to tetracycline, erythromycin, and clindamycin occurs in c. trachomatis and may be a factor in some treatment failures.
two types of abnormal genes for plasminogen in families with a predisposition for thrombosis [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 apr 1;88(7):2967] the gene coding for plasminogen has been compared with several abnormal genes from japanese patients by the polymerase chain reaction and dna sequence analysis. two types of abnormal genes coding for plasminogen were identified in these patients. in the type i mutation, a guanosine in gct coding for ala-601 near the active-site histidine was replaced by an adenosine resulting in act coding for threonine. this mutation was also shown by the loss of a cleavage site for fnu4hi endonuclease, a restriction enzyme that recognizes gctgc but not actgc. in the type ii mutation, a guanosine in gtc coding for val-355 was replaced by a thymidine resulting in ttc coding for phenylalanine. this change was readily shown by digestion with ava ii endonuclease, a restriction enzyme that recognizes ggtcc and not gttcc. the type i mutation has been found to be identical to a plasminogen variant identified in japanese patients by amino acid sequence analysis and also detected by isoelectric focusing, whereas the type ii mutation is a unique amino acid substitution in the connecting region between the third and fourth kringles in plasminogen. dna sequence analysis also revealed that the abnormal genes carry several silent nucleotide substitutions located primarily within introns and 5' and 3' flanking regions.
biobehavioral factors in cardiac arrhythmia pilot study (caps). review and examination. the behavioral studies component of the multicenter cardiac arrhythmia pilot study (caps) was designed to examine the relation of biobehavioral factors and frequency of ventricular premature complexes (vpcs), efficacy of antiarrhythmic therapy, and disease end points in a study population that had experienced recent myocardial infarction and significant ventricular ectopy. biobehavioral factors included both psychosocial (depression, anxiety, social support, type a behavior, mood, defensiveness, and anger expressiveness) and psychophysiological (heart rate and blood pressure reactivity to a videogame stressor) variables. data were collected at baseline and at 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-ups. of the 502 patients enrolled in caps, 353 participated in the behavioral studies component. at baseline, assessments of psychosocial variables revealed the caps study population to be generally similar to other heart disease populations, and no relation between these variables and psychophysiological reactivity or arrhythmias was found. at follow-up among patients assigned to the placebo condition, biobehavioral variables were not related to levels of vpcs or vpc suppression. cox regression analyses revealed that type b behavior, depression, and reduced heart rate reactivity were associated with increased clinical events, even after controlling for baseline left ventricular ejection fraction, myocardial infarction before the qualifying event, use of beta-blockers, use of digitalis, q wave of qualifying myocardial infarction, and presence of unsustained ventricular tachycardia on baseline electrocardiogram. it is hypothesized that the relation among reduced heart rate reactivity, depression, and clinical events is mediated by diminished cardiac vagal tone.
increased rat cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme activity and mrna expression in pressure overload left ventricular hypertrophy. effects on coronary resistance, contractility, and relaxation. we compared the activity and physiologic effects of cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) using isovolumic hearts from male wistar rats with left ventricular hypertrophy due to chronic experimental aortic stenosis and from control rats. in response to the infusion of 3.5 x 10(-8) m angiotensin i in the isolated buffer perfused beating hearts, the intracardiac fractional conversion to angiotensin ii was higher in the hypertrophied hearts compared with the controls (17.3 +/- 4.1% vs 6.8 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.01). ace activity was also significantly increased in the free wall, septum, and apex of the hypertrophied left ventricle, whereas ace activity from the nonhypertrophied right ventricle of the aortic stenosis rats was not different from that of the control rats. northern blot analyses of poly(a)+ purified rna demonstrated the expression of ace mrna, which was increased fourfold in left ventricular tissue obtained from the hearts with left ventricular hypertrophy compared with the controls. in both groups, the intracardiac conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii caused a comparable dose-dependent increase in coronary resistance. in the control hearts, angiotensin ii activation had no significant effect on systolic or diastolic function; however, it was associated with a dose-dependent depression of left ventricular diastolic relaxation in the hypertrophied hearts. these novel observations suggest that cardiac ace is induced in hearts with left ventricular hypertrophy, and that the resultant intracardiac activation of angiotensin ii may have differential effects on myocardial relaxation in hypertrophied hearts relative to controls.
gracilis muscle transposition for faecal incontinence. transposition of the gracilis muscle for faecal incontinence was performed in 13 patients. six gained satisfactory continence, four were improved, two did not benefit from the operation and one patient died from intercurrent disease before closure of a pre-existing colostomy. anal manometry compared with a control group showed no alteration in resting and pressure at a median of 35 mmhg (range 5-63 mmhg), whereas maximum squeeze pressure increased from a median of 38 mmhg (range 5-79 mmhg) to 59 mmhg (range 10-143 mmhg) (p = 0.041) which was, however, significantly lower than 130 mmhg (range 81-236 mmhg) in the control group. all patients who benefited from the operation had an increase in maximum squeeze pressure. the ability to retain a viscous fluid in the rectum was measured in seven patients, four of whom had gained satisfactory continence and three of whom had improved continence. they were able to retain a median volume of 200 ml (range 50-225 ml) without leakage compared with 325 ml (range 250-400 ml) in the control group. these patients could retain the maximum amount of viscous fluid for 5-8 min, whereas all control subjects could do so for more than 15 min. it is concluded that, although gracilis transposition never results in normal continence, acceptable continence may be achieved in selected patients provided careful attention is paid to the technical details of the procedure and provided that systematic postoperative exercises are performed.
lateral medullary infarction: prognosis in an unselected series. we describe the acute and long-term prognosis in 43 patients with lateral medullary infarction (lmi) collected from a population-based stroke registry from 1982 to july 1988. mean age was 63.9 years and median time of follow-up was 33 months. in the acute phase, 5 patients (11.6%) died from respiratory and cardiovascular complications and 2 new strokes occurred, both in the posterior circulation. during follow-up, recurrent vertebrobasilar territory strokes occurred in only 2 patients (a rate of 1.9% per year). the mechanisms of stroke were vertebral artery (va) branch occlusion, causing a medial medullary syndrome, and basilar artery thrombosis propagating from a contralateral, distal va stenosis. in the acute phase of lmi, respiratory and cardiovascular events, presumably caused by autonomic dysfunction related to the lateral medullary lesion, are the major hazards. recurrent posterior circulation strokes were uncommon during follow-up.
role of angioplasty in myocardial infarction management strategies: a review. the role of angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction has been extensively studied in the past few years. although angioplasty in some circumstances can be the primary reperfusion intervention, logistic problems and the excellent results of intravenous thrombolytic therapy have resulted in postlytic angioplasty being the preferred use of this interventional strategy. clinical trials of this strategy have not supported its routine use, however, and a much more selective application of postthrombolytic coronary artery dilation is advocated at this time.
the osteogenetic potential of fracture haematoma. subperiosteal and intramuscular transplantation of the haematoma. we studied the precise role of the fracture haematoma in healing by the experimental transplantation of the haematoma at two days and four days after fracture of the rat femur to subperiosteal and intramuscular sites. we used bone marrow and peripheral blood haematomas for control experiments. the transplanted two-day fracture haematoma produced new bone by endochondral ossification at the subperiosteal site, but not at the intramuscular site. four-day fracture haematoma produced new bone formation at both subperiosteal and intramuscular sites. these results suggest that fracture haematoma has an inherent osteogenetic potential.
proliferation characteristics of human colorectal carcinomas measured in vivo. the cell proliferation kinetics of 100 human colonic and rectal adenocarcinomas have been studied in vivo by bromodeoxyuridine infusion and multiparameter flow cytometry. a total of 97 patients, three with synchronous tumours, consented to receive a single bolus dose of 250 mg between 2.4 and 16 h before curative or palliative surgery. by this method, the ploidy pattern, the total and aneuploid labelling indices (li), the s phase duration (ts) and the potential doubling time (tpot) can be estimated. of the tumours 48 were diploid and 52 were aneuploid. the mean and median total li of 100 tumours were 9.0 per cent (range 0.7-22.2 per cent). the mean aneuploid li was 12.1 per cent (median 12.0 per cent, range 2.0-25.5 per cent), and was significantly higher than the total li (p = 0.01). the labelling index alone is not a sufficient indicator of proliferation, because the ts also varies within and between tumours. the intertumour range of the ts varied from 4.0 to 28.6 h. the mean was 14.1 h and the median was 13.1 h. the mean tpot was 5.9 days (median 3.9 days) with a range of 1.7-21.4 days. no correlation was found between any kinetic parameters and the dukes' classification or histological classification. the correlation between proliferation and prognosis will be established in due course.
the cancer experience in the framingham heart study cohort. the almost 40-year records of the framingham heart study (fhs) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects. diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes. age-specific incidence rates were compared with connecticut surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (seer) data. among the 5209 subjects, 1201 malignancies were confirmed. median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women. lung, prostate, skin, and colon accounted for more than half of men's cancers; breast, colon, and skin made up half of the women's. fhs and connecticut seer rates matched closely, with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups. thus, the fhs cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence, as it has done in cardiovascular diseases.
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas: clinicopathological features and surgical treatment. forty-five (9.9%) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery: 24 had a blood collection, 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis, and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis. thirteen patients (28.9%) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy, whereas another 32 had an "asymptomatic" hemorrhage, that is, the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma. nineteen tumors (42.2%) showed marked suprasellar extension, 8 (17.8%) showed moderate extension, and 11 (24.5%) showed slight extension; another 2 (4.4%) were laterosellar and 5 (11.1%) were intrasellar. invasive behavior was present in 32 cases (71.1%) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage. the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive; therefore, we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor. two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery, whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route. it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible, even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy. the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results, but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary, namely, postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients, bromocriptine in 12, and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all. in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years, 5 (11.1%) symptomatic recurrences were observed.
giant benign mesenchymoma of the breast. the term mesenchymoma refers to a group of mixed tumors that are composed of two or more mesenchymal elements, excluding fibrous tissue, not ordinarily found together within the same tumor. mesenchymomas occur most commonly in the renal and perirenal regions with rare occurrence in the breast. we describe what to our knowledge is the first report of a giant benign mesenchymoma of the breast. the clinical presentation, course, and treatment of a patient with this condition is discussed. clinicians should be aware that benign mesenchymomas may involve the breast and simulate a malignant breast neoplasm.
pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group: the prostate--an unusual location. pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare, with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature. we present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery.
mechanical myocardial actuation during ventricular fibrillation improves tolerance to ischemia compared with cardiopulmonary bypass. direct mechanical ventricular actuation (dmva) is a unique non-blood-contacting biventricular assist device that provides circulatory support during ventricular fibrillation without demonstrating adverse effects on the myocardium. the purpose of this study was to assess the preservation of myocardial energy stores and myocardial responses to ischemia after circulatory support during ventricular fibrillation with direct mechanical ventricular actuation versus cardiopulmonary bypass. twenty adult mongrel dogs were randomized to receive circulatory support with either cardiopulmonary bypass or direct mechanical ventricular actuation. after 4 hours of ventricular fibrillation, hearts were defibrillated and left ventricular transmural biopsies were obtained. hearts were then excised and subjected to 90 minutes of normothermic total ischemia. serial biopsies were obtained at 15-minute intervals to determine regional depletion of high energy phosphates. the time-to-peak ischemic contracture was recorded by using needle-tipped millar catheters placed in the left ventricular endocardium, epicardium, septum, and right ventricle. time-to-peak ischemic contracture of the endocardium (62.6 +/- 1.4 vs. 58.8 +/- 1.0 minutes, p less than 0.05) and septum (61.1 +/- 6.9 vs. 46.9 +/- 6.2 minutes, p less than 0.004) were significantly prolonged after direct mechanical ventricular actuation versus cardiopulmonary bypass, respectively. similar trends were noted in the epicardium and right ventricular regions; however, these differences were not statistically significant. left ventricular adenosine triphosphate (atp) levels were better preserved after direct mechanical ventricular actuation (22 +/- 1.5 mumols/g dry wt) compared with cardiopulmonary bypass (17 +/- 1.9 mumols/g dry wt). the depletion of left ventricular endocardium atp during normothermic ischemia was significantly delayed after direct mechanical ventricular actuation compared with cardiopulmonary bypass.
the symptom sensitivity index: a valuable additional parameter in 24-hour esophageal ph recording. twenty-four-hour esophageal ph monitoring is useful for the quantitative measurement of gastroesophageal reflux and for the demonstration of a temporal relationship between symptoms and reflux. the symptom index, a numerical score, was developed to quantify the association between symptoms and reflux. because the symptom index primarily assesses the specificity of a patient's reflux symptoms, we propose to refer to this score as the symptom specificity index. because of certain limitations of this score, we developed and evaluated a new score, the symptom sensitivity index, that quantifies the subject's sensitivity for reflux. fifty-two consecutive patients, referred to our laboratory for ambulatory 24-h ph recording were studied. beside the conventional reflux variables, both indexes were calculated. although a statistically significant correlation between the indexes was found, discordance between the specificity and sensitivity indexes was seen in 17 patients (33%). based on the findings in this study we advocate that the symptom sensitivity index should be used, in addition to the symptom specificity index, and incorporated in future ph studies to optimalize the interpretation of the results.
vitamin c and cardiovascular risk factors. the concept that ascorbic acid (vitamin c) supplementation protects against coronary heart disease developed in the late 1970s when vitamin c intakes in industrialized nations were lower than at present. supplementation was then shown to lower plasma total cholesterol and, among some elderly men, to raise high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. however, among people in initially good vitamin c nutriture, these effects are usually not seen. in five populations of essentially healthy people, blood pressure has been found to correlate negatively with vitamin c status. recently, in a placebo-controlled, double-blinded study, extra ascorbic acid for 6 wk was observed to lower systolic and pulse pressure in a small group of borderline hypertensive subjects.
technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate (mdp) uptake in a sympathetic effusion: an index of malignancy and a review of the literature. we report a patient with a sympathetic pleural effusion secondary to t-cell lymphoma that accumulated the bone imaging agent, technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate (99mtc-mdp). this case is significant in that malignant cells were not present on three cytologic examinations of the pleural fluid or multiple pleural biopsies. we also present a review of the published literature on pleural effusions that accumulate bone tracers. we conclude that pleural effusions that accumulate 99mtc-mdp should be considered malignant or secondary to a malignancy and further work-up is essential even if the cytologic exam of the pleural fluid is unremarkable.
dislocation after total hip arthroplasty. causes and prevention. in this prospective study, a technique of positioning the acetabulum by bony landmarks of the pelvis in the standing position was developed using a standing lateral preoperative roentgenogram with the x-ray tube centered over the trochanter. since 1984, 441 total hip arthroplasties (thas) were done through the posterior approach with a 1.14% dislocation rate through 1988 and no dislocations in 1989. to prevent impingement and dislocation, it was determined that the safest range for cup position was 30 degrees-50 degrees abduction and 20 degrees-40 degrees flexion from the horizontal. to measure postoperative cup position, a standing true lateral roentgenogram of the operated hip allowed direct measurement of cup flexion and was reproducible within 10 degrees. no special instruments are necessary for this technique, which can be used with any tha system.
epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infections among young children in kenya. the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection (ari) was investigated in a rural community 80 km north of nairobi, kenya. this research was conducted prospectively on 250 families with 470 children less than 5 years of age who were contacted every 8 days during the 3-year study. the yearly incidence of respiratory tract infections decreased from 5.2 to 3.4 during the study; less than 5% of these infections involved the lower respiratory tract. the incidence was inversely related to age, and the illnesses were generally mild and brief in length. fifteen children died during the study period. the precise causes of death are unknown, but respiratory infections possibly played a role in most cases. this study emphasizes the importance of determining the risk factors responsible for unusually severe morbidity and high mortality in children with ari in developing countries.
senile dementia and healthy aging: a longitudinal ct study. volumetric indexes of cerebral atrophy obtained by using computed tomography (ct) were measured longitudinally in patients with senile dementia of the alzheimer type (sdat) and in healthy elderly control subjects. measurements were made three times over a 51-month period. of the original 44 patients with sdat, five were available for ct examination at the last time of assessment (51 months); in contrast, 41 of the original 58 control subjects were still available for study at 51 months. as a group, scans of sdat subjects showed greater atrophy than those of control subjects in all volumetric indexes at each time of testing and demonstrated greater progression of atrophy during the study period. however, the overlap of indexes between the patients with sdat and the control subjects indicates that ct data cannot be used alone to predict the presence or progression of dementia in individual cases.
systemic therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer. fluorouracil-based chemotherapy regimens have been utilized in metastatic colorectal cancer for more than 30 years. early attempts at defining an optimal treatment schedule and use in combination with other drugs failed to significantly improve results. in contrast, the clinical effectiveness of fluorouracil has been improved by continuous infusion administration and modulation with folinic acid. both approaches have increased the response rate compared with results achieved with traditional bolus schedules; the effect on survival has been less significant. unfortunately, expense and, in some instances, toxicity have also been increased, which detracts from their overall usefulness. clinical studies that evaluate fluorouracil chemotherapy in combination with biological-response modifiers are ongoing and will be areas of intense research during the next few years.
diagnostic echocardiographic features of the sinus venosus defect. to establish the diagnostic criteria for a sinus venosus atrial septal defect cross sectional echocardiograms, cineangiograms, and surgical notes of all patients with this diagnosis seen at the children's hospital of pittsburgh between 1986 and 1988 were reviewed. seven patients were identified. in each the extent of the atrial septum and the nature of the junction of the superior vena cava with the atria were evaluated echocardiographically from the subcostal position. all had overriding of the superior vena cava and abnormally connected right pulmonary veins. six patients had undergone cardiac catheterisation and cineangiography. five patients underwent surgical repair. the operative findings were consistent with the expected morphology in all five, and these features were additionally confirmed in a specimen from the cardiopathological museum. therefore, the basic anatomical feature of a superior sinus venosus interatrial communication is a biatrial connection of the superior vena cava. this, together with anomalous drainage of the right sided pulmonary veins, results in an interatrial communication outside the confines of the true atrial septum. overriding of the superior vena cava across the upper rim of the oval fossa is suggested as the pathognomonic diagnostic feature that can clearly be demonstrated echocardiographically from the subcostal position. in essence the lesion is an interatrial communication rather than an atrial septal defect.
popliteal artery occlusion caused by cystic adventitial disease: successful treatment by urokinase followed by nonresectional cystotomy. preoperative diagnosis of an occluded popliteal artery caused by cystic adventitial disease allowed use of urokinase to successfully dissolve secondary thrombosis. subsequent non-resectional adventitial cystotomy and evacuation of cyst contents allowed lasting restoration of a patent arterial lumen and return of normal distal pulses. this nongrafting technique may serve as a model for future patients with occluded arteries caused by this condition.
usefulness of epidurally evoked cortical potential monitoring during cervicomedullary glioma surgery. this report describes a patient with an intramedullary ependymoma at the region of the cervicomedullary junction in whom there was an abolition of somatosensory evoked potentials following median nerve stimulation. during intraoperative monitoring of cortical potentials elicited by epidural cervical cord stimulation, the tumor was removed. posterior epidural stimulation appeared to depolarize more ascending fibers than did stimulation of a single peripheral nerve. we recommend that, in cases of operations in this vital area, epidurally evoked cortical potentials be monitored intraoperatively.
natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited. to define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke, we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the cornell neurology database from october 1979 to june 1985. analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables. twenty-five patients (36%) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin, another two (3%) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage, and a total of 10 patients (14%) had bleeding complications. no clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin. clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time. without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke, many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin. our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke. furthermore, frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome.
decreased protein binding of salicylates in kawasaki disease. because patients with kawasaki disease have low serum concentrations of salicylates despite high doses, and because the free (unbound) drug is responsible for the pharmacologic effects of salicylates, we assessed salicylate protein binding in patients with kawasaki disease. during the acute phase of the disease, protein binding of salicylate in 36 children with kawasaki disease was 73 +/- 12%, significantly lower than during the subacute phase (90.4 +/- 8.7%; p less than 0.0005). mean serum albumin concentration was 29.2 +/- 6.4 gm/l during the acute phase and 36.7 +/- 7.8 gm/l during the subsequent subacute phase (p less than 0.005). salicylate protein binding was affected independently by both serum albumin and total salicylate levels. during the acute phase of kawasaki disease, children had an average twofold increase in free salicylate compared with normoalbuminemic control subjects. a nomogram has been devised to derive free salicylate levels from the known total salicylate and serum albumin concentrations.
single lung transplantation for primary pulmonary hypertension. single lung transplantation has become a therapeutic option for end-stage interstitial lung disease and obstructive lung disease. our group recently extended this treatment to three patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. all patients had marked decreases in pulmonary artery pressures and pulmonary vascular resistance and increases in cardiac output following single lung transplantation. spirometry, lung volumes, and diffusion capacity were not different in comparison to preoperative studies. quantitative ventilation-perfusion scans revealed the majority of perfusion distributed to the transplanted lung, with ventilation approximately equally divided between the native and the transplanted lung. despite ventilation-perfusion imbalance, there was no resting hypoxemia and there was no arterial oxygen desaturation with exercise. one patient expired on the 30th postoperative day due to cytomegalovirus infection of the lungs. in the remaining two patients, maximum exercise capacity following transplantation was near normal in one recipient and reduced in the second recipient. of note, there was no evidence of ventilatory limitation or impaired oxygenation during exercise in these two recipients. although an exaggerated exercise ventilatory response was present, this did not limit exercise performance. this report supports the use of single lung transplantation for the treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension.
xenon-enhanced computed tomographic measurement of cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic subdural hematomas. we compared clinical symptoms with extent of brain shift on computed tomographic (ct) scans and quantitative and three-dimensional measurements of cerebral blood flow (cbf) on xenon-enhanced ct scans in 10 patients with chronic subdural hematomas. five patients had only headache and minimal or no brain shift on a ct scan. the other five had hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance in addition to headache and moderate or severe brain shift on a ct scan. the mean hemispheric cbf decreased about 7% in patients with headache and about 35% in patients with hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance. it decreased also on the side without the hematoma. the cbf reduction was always more pronounced in the putamen and thalamus than in the cortex. on the contrary, the cortex cbf was mostly preserved or even elevated in both groups of patients. we speculate that cbf reduction in patients with a chronic subdural hematoma occurs initially in central cerebral areas like the basal ganglia and thalamus, and then extends to the entire hemisphere including the cortex as brain compression and displacement progress. central cerebral area involvement might be more responsible for clinical symptoms than the cortex.
noradrenergic abnormalities in the central nervous system of seizure-naive genetically epilepsy-prone rats. norepinephrine (ne) concentrations were measured in 15 discrete areas of the central nervous system of two types of genetically epilepsy-prone rats (geprs) and in nonepileptic controls. both moderate-seizure (gepr-3) and severe-seizure (gepr-9) animals had extensive abnormalities in brain ne concentration. deficits of equal magnitude in gepr-3s and gepr-9s were found in the spinal cord, midbrain minus the inferior colliculus, inferior colliculus, hypothalamus, amygdala, hippocampus, occipital + parietal cortex, frontal cortex, and olfactory septum. because both types of geprs share these deficits and share seizure susceptibility, we hypothesize that these areas are candidates for regulation of seizure susceptibility in geprs. in addition, because gepr-9s have more severe seizures than gepr-3s and because gepr-9s had greater ne deficits in several brain areas (cerebellum, pons-medulla, thalamus, and possibly the temporal cortex and olfactory bulbs), we hypothesize that these areas may be important in regulation of seizure severity in geprs. all animals used in these experiments had been protected from seizure-provoking stimuli and were naive to seizures. because the abnormalities in ne concentration were present in seizure-predisposed animals that were protected from seizures, we conclude that these abnormalities are important components of the seizure-predisposition characteristic of geprs and do not result from seizure experience.
murine erythroleukemia cell line gm979 contains factors that can activate silent chromosomal human gamma-globin genes. we introduced a normal chromosome 11 into gm979 murine erythroleukemia cells by fusing them with epstein-barr virus-transformed lymphocytes from a normal individual. in contrast to previous data obtained with other murine erythroleukemia cells, we detected activation of human chromosomal gamma-globin genes in gm979 cells. gm979, unlike previously used murine erythroleukemia cell lines, expresses murine embryonic globin in addition to adult globin. while all the hybrids expressed gamma- and beta-globin, they displayed a wide range of gamma-globin expression in relation to that of beta-globin. no correlation, however, was found in quantitative expression between murine embryonic globin and human gamma-globin in these hybrids, suggesting that the two globins are regulated independently, at least in this cell line. these data indicate that gamma-globin genes from normal, nonerythroid chromosomes are not irreversibly silenced, and they can be activated by a positive trans factor(s) present in gm979 cells.
antimigraine treatment for slit ventricle syndrome. slit ventricle syndrome is characterized by chronic or recurring headaches associated with subnormal ventricular volume in patients who have undergone shunt treatment for hydrocephalus. there appear to be at least three pathophysiological mechanisms that cause this syndrome: 1) intermittent shunt malfunction; 2) intracranial hypotension; and 3) paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure in the presence of normal shunt function. to treat seven patients with slit ventricle syndrome caused by paroxysms of elevated intracranial pressure, we successfully used antimigraine therapy rather than standard calvarial expansion procedures. none of these patients has required shunt revision or calvarial expansion during a mean follow-up period of 2 years. the symptoms of slit ventricle syndrome may be a form of "acquired" migraine in shunt patients. we suggest that, in clinically stable patients with normal shunt function, treatment against migraine may stabilize symptoms resulting from paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure. such treatment may prevent unnecessary shunt revisions and/or calvarial expansion procedures.
area of lateral ventricles measured on cranial ultrasonography in preterm infants: association with outcome. the association between measurements of lateral ventricle area (determined by serial ultrasound scans) and outcome was studied in 70 preterm neonates of 33 weeks' gestation or less. the study group was subdivided into four groups according to cranial ultrasonographic findings at 2 weeks postnatal age: group a (n = 15) had isolated periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage; group b (n = 20) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and dilated ventricles; group c (n = 24) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia with or without dilated ventricles; and group d (n = 11) had isolated periventricular leukomalacia. eighty seven preterm infants with no evidence of intracranial disease and good neurodevelopmental outcomes at 2 years formed the control group. a poor outcome was observed in infants in group b, c, and d, particularly in those who had persistent dilated ventricles at 6 weeks postnatal age and extensive periventricular leukomalacia. there was no difference in outcome between group a and controls. during the first six weeks of life ventricular area growth velocities were significantly higher in groups b, c, d, compared with normal controls and group a. we suggest that persistent ventricular dilatation at this early stage carries a bad prognosis, which is the result of atrophy of the brain.
somatostatin analogue treatment inhibits post-resectional adaptation of the small bowel in rats. post-resectional hyperplasia is the phenomenon in which residual small bowel increases in size and absorptive capacity after segmental enterectomy. this experiment studied the effect of somatostatin analogue therapy on the development of two structural parameters of post-resectional hyperplasia in rats subjected to 40% proximal small bowel resection. octreotide acetate-treated rats failed to develop increased villus height (902 +/- 50 microns) relative to saline-treated rats (1,103 +/- 98 microns). augmentation of residual intestinal weight was also significantly impaired in analogue-treated rats (92 +/- 3 versus 118 +/- 5 mg/cm). we conclude that somatostatin analogue treatment during the early postoperative period does impair the growth of residual bowel in rats. these findings raise concern regarding the use of this drug for postoperative patients who have undergone massive small bowel resection in whom the process of post-resectional adaptation may be critical to allow sustenance with enteral nutrition.
comparative effects of overweight on cardiovascular risk in younger versus older men. the relation of age and body mass index (bmi) to atherosclerosis risk factors was examined in 357 men. older (greater than or equal to 45 years) men had higher (p less than 0.01) systolic and diastolic blood pressures, fasting cholesterol and glucose, and 1-hour glucose and insulin levels. fasting insulin and triglyceride levels were not significantly different between the 2 age groups. although older men (n = 170) had greater values for several risk factors, overweight (bmi greater than 25.5 kg/m2) increased risk factors more in men younger than 45 years (n = 187). in younger men, those with higher bmis had a greater prevalence, respectively, of blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm hg (35.2 vs 11.2%, p less than 0.0001), cholesterol greater than 200 mg/dl (53.5 vs 29.3%, p less than 0.001), fasting triglycerides greater than 150 mg/dl (38.0 vs 10.3%, p less than 0.0001), 1-hour glucose greater than 160 mg/dl (15.5 vs 5.2%, p less than 0.05), fasting insulin greater than 11 microu/ml (28.2 vs 5.2%, p less than 0.0001), and 1-hour insulin greater than 110 microu/ml (28.2 vs 9.5%, p less than 0.001). in contrast, among older men, the prevalence of elevated blood pressure, cholesterol, triglycerides and glucose values was not significantly greater in the subgroup with high bmi. however, elevations of fasting (19.6 vs 6.4%, p less than 0.05) and 1-hour insulin (29.3 vs 11.5%, p less than 0.01) values were more common among older men with higher bmis.
dysphagia and esophageal motor dysfunction in gastroesophageal reflux are corrected by fundoplication. abnormalities in esophageal peristaltic function and acid clearance appear to be responsible for prolonged esophageal acid exposure, a major determinant of the reflux esophagitis and esophageal stricture. we evaluated esophageal motility by manometry in 50 healthy controls and in 35 symptomatic reflux patients before, within 6 months, and 1 year after nissen fundoplication. preoperative motility was analyzed in relation to the presence or absence of both nonobstructive dysphagia and erosive esophagitis. we found that (a) preoperative dysphagia was related more to peristaltic dysfunction than to esophagitis; (b) peristaltic wave amplitude and duration were significantly lower than control values in patients with reflux, without correlation to degree of esophagitis or lower esophageal sphincter hypotension; (c) dysphagia ceased in most patients after antireflux surgery at the same time that normal motility was restored independently of lower esophageal sphincter pressure increments. these results suggest that motility disturbances are an important cause of dysphagia in reflux disease, and that reflux is the cause of, rather than the consequence of, peristaltic dysfunction.
expectant management of localized prostatic cancer. seventy-five patients with clinical stage b histologically proven prostatic cancer accumulated over a 40-year period and receiving no therapy for at least 1 year after histologic diagnosis were retrospectively reviewed. twenty-nine patients had stage b1 lesions, 37 had b2, and nine had b3 lesions; median follow-up for these patients was 124, 120, and 96 months, respectively. five ultimately received pelvic lymph node dissection with iodine-125 implantation, 23 had transurethral resection of the prostate, and 18 had endocrine therapy. of those tumors which progressed, 18 of 19 (95%) b1, 26 of 29 (90%) b2, and four of four (100%) b3 lesions demonstrated local progression first. six of 29 (21%) b1, 17 of 37 (46%) b2, and two of nine (22%) b3 tumors developed recognized distant metastasis. actuarial survival at 15 years was 67%, 39%, and 63% for patients with b1, b2, and b3 lesions, respectively. these data indicate the varied and potentially protracted course of patients with clinical stage b prostatic cancer.
exercise thallium-201 imaging in complete left bundle branch block and the prevalence of septal perfusion defects. to determine the prevalence of septal defects in a generalized referral population, the records of 93 consecutive patients with complete left bundle branch block (bbb) who underwent symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with thallium-201 myocardial imaging over a 3-year period were reviewed. segmental analysis of the planar thallium-201 images was performed in a blinded fashion with agreement by consensus. computerized quantitative analysis of the images also was independently performed, and was correlated with the visual interpretations. forty-seven patients (51%) had normal images, and 46 (49%) had defects of greater than or equal to 2 segments. in the abnormal studies, only 13 patients (14% of the total population) had septal defects, while a much higher number of patients, 33 (39%), had inferior or apical defects, or both. coronary angiography was performed in 6 patients with septal defects: significant narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery was found in 4 patients, a narrowed right coronary artery was found in 1, and normal coronary arteries were seen in the other patient. in conclusion, whereas previous studies have suggested a high percentage of false-positive septal defects in patients with left bbb, this study demonstrates a low prevalence (14%) of septal defects in a large population of unselected patients presenting for exercise thallium-201 imaging. therefore, exercise thallium-201 imaging remains a useful procedure for evaluating patients with complete left bbb.
pharmacokinetics of famotidine after intravenous administration in liver disease. the pharmacokinetics of famotidine were studied after the administration of a single intravenous dose of 20-mg to seven normal volunteers, six patients with chronic hepatitis, 14 patients with compensated cirrhosis, and seven patients with decompensated cirrhosis. the plasma terminal elimination half-life of famotidine was significantly prolonged and famotidine total body clearance was significantly reduced in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, whose creatinine clearance was 57.2 +/- 6.7 ml/min/1.48 m2, but these changes were not significant in patients with chronic hepatitis (creatinine clearance: 109.2 +/- 10.5 ml/min/1.48 m2) or in patients with compensated cirrhosis (creatinine clearance: 72.2 +/- 26.5 ml/min/1.48 m2 in comparison with normal volunteers. the total volume of distribution at steady state was not significantly different between the normal volunteers and the three groups of patients. famotidine total body clearance showed a weak but significant correlation with the creatinine clearance (r = 0.66, p less than 0.001), serum albumin level (r = 0.51, p less than 0.01), and serum total bilirubin level (r = 0.36, p less than 0.05), which suggested that the reduction in clearance was due in part to the concomitant renal impairment, as well as hepatic dysfunction in these patients. in conclusion, famotidine total body clearance was reduced in decompensated cirrhosis, indicating that the dose schedule requires modification in patients with this condition.
estimating left ventricular filling pressure during positive end-expiratory pressure in humans. in the critically ill, accurate measurements of left ventricular (lv) filling pressure using pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (ppao) are important for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. in patients receiving positive end-expiratory pressure (peep), ppao may not reflect lv filling pressure because of elevated pericardial pressure (ppc). it has been proposed that in humans, ppc and right atrial pressure (pra) are equal, so that referencing ppao to pra may improve the assessment of lv filling pressure when ppc is elevated. similarly, it has also been shown in the dog that nadir ppao immediately after airway disconnection from peep (nadir ppao), accurately reflects lv filling pressure when lv filling pressure is greater than or equal to 10 mm hg. we examined methods of estimating lv filling pressure using ppao measurements under conditions in which increases in ppc were the primary determinants of differences in the two measurements. using left atrial pressure (pla) relative to ppc, called transmural pla (platm), as lv filling pressure, we compared the accuracy of ppao, nadir ppao, and ppao relative to pra to reflect platm in 15 postoperative cardiac surgery patients in whom an air-filled pericardial balloon catheter and a left atrial catheter were inserted during surgery. peep was sequentially increased from zero to 15 cm h2o. we found that pra always exceeded ppc (p less than 0.01) and increased less with peep than did ppc (p less than 0.05). at less than or equal to 5 cm h2o peep, both ppao and nadir ppao were similar to each other and to platm.
the association of elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine with progression of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. plasma homocyst(e)ine (the sum of free and bound homocysteine, homocystine, and the mixed disulfide homocysteine-cysteine, expressed as homocysteine) levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in 214 patients with symptomatic (claudication, rest pain, gangrene, amputation) lower extremity arterial occlusive disease and/or symptomatic (stroke, cerebral transient ischemic attacks) cerebral vascular disease and in 103 control persons. mean plasma homocyst(e)ine was significantly higher in patients than in controls (14.37 +/- 6.89 nmol/ml vs 10.10 +/- 2.16, p less than 0.05). thirty-nine percent of patients (83 of 214) had plasma homocyst(e)ine values greater than control mean + 2 standard deviations. plasma homocyst(e)ine values were contrasted to age, male sex, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, renal failure, and plasma cholesterol. no difference was found in the incidence and/or level of any of these risk factors when patients with normal plasma homocyst(e)ine were compared to those with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine, both by univariate and multivariate analysis. patients with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine were more likely to demonstrate clinical progression of lower extremity disease and of coronary artery disease, but not of cerebral vascular disease than were patients with normal plasma homocyst(e)ine, and the rate of progression was more rapid (p = 0.002). progression of lower extremity disease as assessed in the vascular laboratory was also more common in patients with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine (p = 0.01). we conclude that elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine is an independent risk factor for symptomatic lower extremity disease or cerebral vascular disease or both. symptomatic patients with lower extremity disease and with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine also appear to have more rapid progression of disease.
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery. a study was made with intra-operative flash--visual evoked potentials (vep) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve. the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings. transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery, but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision. the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve.
missed injuries. the trauma surgeon's nemesis. the multiply injured trauma patient presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge: that of discovering all injuries while simultaneously proceeding with resuscitation and maintaining life. many factors involved in the initial resuscitation of the multiply injured patient, such as altered level of consciousness, hemodynamic instability, or inexperience and diagnostic oversight, may lead to missed injuries. injuries may be missed at any stage of the management of the trauma patient, including intraoperatively, and may involve all regions of the body. established protocols in the initial management of the multiply injured patient, such as the primary and secondary surveys of the advanced trauma life support course, will minimize the chance of missing immediately life-threatening injuries in the emergency department. a careful intraoperative approach must be used in all patients, but especially in those with hemodynamic instability, so that all areas are examined for possible injury, rather than concentrating simply on what is known to be injured. use of the tertiary survey, a careful re-examination of the multiply injured trauma patient, especially when he or she awakes, will help detect injuries missed during the initial evaluation. injuries will be missed. rather than dismissing these as occurrences that happen only to the inexperienced or incompetent, one should approach the multiply injured trauma patient with both special alertness and the humility necessary to search for diagnostic oversights. this approach will lead to early discovery of missed injuries and will minimize the consequences.
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension: report of two cases. two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented. emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement, which, supplemented by radiation therapy, allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms. three possible explanations for this complication are offered: 1) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site, causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus, 2) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema, and 3) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus. subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed.
hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving remnant liver function. hepatic malignancies often infiltrate to the major hepatic vein. recently, we performed hepatic resection combined with hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving remnant liver function in three such patients. one patient had a saphenous vein graft. postoperative liver function of the patients who underwent hepatic vein reconstruction was compared with those of eight patients who underwent hepatic resection of segments vii and viii. the right hepatic vein in four of them was resected and in the remaining four was preserved by skeletalization using an ultrasonic aspirator. although four patients with right hepatic vein resection showed severe lowering of liver function after surgery, the postoperative course of patients with preservation or reconstruction of the right hepatic vein maintained good liver function. liver regeneration of three patients with hepatic vein reconstruction was good on computed tomography. besides this report, to our knowledge, there is no other report of hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving the remnant liver function. problems with hepatic resection combined with hepatic vein reconstruction are discussed. we conclude that hepatic vein reconstruction is one of the means for extending indication of the malignant tumor resection of the liver.
iron chelation by deferoxamine inhibits lipid peroxidation during cardiopulmonary bypass in humans. iron catalysis is involved in oxygen-derived free radical generation and subsequent lipid peroxidation, which have been reported to occur during cardiopulmonary bypass in humans. we assessed the effects of the iron chelator deferoxamine on the susceptibility of circulating low density lipoproteins (ldls) to induced peroxidation in 20 adult patients (10 controls and 10 treated) undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary or valve procedures. deferoxamine was given both intravenously (30 mg/kg body wt, starting 30 minutes before bypass and extending for the next 4 hours) and as an additive to the cardioplegic solution (250 mg/l). blood samples were taken from both atria before and immediately after the end of cardiopulmonary bypass. plasma lipid peroxidation was assessed by measuring spectrophotometrically the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (tbars) content of selectively isolated ldls after their exposure to a peroxidizing agent. before cardiopulmonary bypass, the right and left atrial blood values of ldl-tbars were not significantly different between the two groups. cardiopulmonary bypass resulted in a lipid peroxidation of significantly greater magnitude in control than in treated patients. postbypass right atrial values for ldl-tbars (expressed in mumol/mmol ldl-phospholipids) were 45.7 +/- 17.2 (mean +/- sem) in control patients and 6.9 +/- 2.9 in treated patients (p less than 0.02), whereas in the left atrial blood, ldl-tbars yielded values of 62.7 +/- 20.5 and 10.3 +/- 3.9, respectively (p less than 0.01).
bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase for eyelid anesthesia. a double-masked, randomized clinical trial was conducted to determine if subcutaneous eyelid injections of a bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase mixture were less painful than unbuffered injections. twenty-one patients received both buffered (ph = 7.4) and unbuffered (ph = 4.6) injections. after each injection, patients recorded pain on a scale of 0, "no pain," to 10, "severe pain." mean pain score for buffered injections was 2.0 versus 4.1 for unbuffered injections (p = 0.0003). seventeen (81%) of 21 patients ranked the buffered injection less painful. use of a bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase mixture is effective in making ophthalmic anesthesia less painful.
stress echocardiography and the human factor: the importance of being expert. the aim of this study was to evaluate how the diagnostic accuracy of a stress echocardiographic procedure, such as a dipyridamole echocardiography test, depends on the specific experience of the physician interpreting the test. recordings of 50 consecutive dipyridamole echocardiographic tests were selected for the first part of the study. they were analyzed by 20 experienced echocardiographers with different backgrounds in stress echocardiography: 10 beginners (less than 20 stress studies interpreted with trained staff) and 10 experienced observers (greater than or equal to 100 stress studies performed). diagnostic accuracy (true positive + true negative/total number of tests) versus the angiographic reference standard (greater than 70% coronary stenosis of at least one major coronary artery) was 62 +/- 6% for beginners and 85 +/- 3% for experienced observers (p less than 0.0001). in the second part of the study, 10 observers (5 beginners and 5 experienced observers) evaluated 2 different sets of 50 dipyridamole echocardiographic test studies before and after the training of the beginners. before training, the accuracy of beginners was lower than that of experienced observers (61 +/- 7% versus 85 +/- 3%; p less than 0.001). after training, the accuracy gap was closed (83 +/- 3% versus 86 +/- 2%; p = ns). therefore, interpretation of stress echocardiographic tests by an echocardiographer without specific training severely underestimates the diagnostic potential of this technique. one hundred stress echocardiographic studies are more than adequate to build the individual learning curve and reach the plateau of diagnostic accuracy that the test can yield.
maffucci's syndrome with bilateral cartilaginous tumors of the cerebellopontine angle. maffucci's syndrome is characterized by the combination of multiple enchondromas (ollier's disease) and hemangiomatosis. these hemangiomas develop in the subcutaneous tissue and form red-blue tumors dispersed over the whole body. intracranial involvement is rare, making a preoperative radiological diagnosis and differentiation from other tumors rather difficult. the radiological characteristics and successful removal of the intracranial part of a chondrosarcoma of the cerebellopontine angle in a case of maffucci's syndrome are reported in this paper.
sudden cardiac death while wearing a holter monitor. the holter tapes of 61 patients (46 men, mean age +/- standard deviation 65 +/- 11 years) with sudden cardiac death while being monitored were analyzed. thirty-eight patients were known to have coronary artery disease, 5 had cardiomyopathy, and 7 had aortic valve disease. etiology remained unknown in 11 patients. mean new york heart association functional class was 2.5 +/- 0.7. thirty patients had received antiarrhythmic drugs and 32 had received digitalis. sudden death occurred at rest in 73%. in the hours before death, repetitive ventricular arrhythmias were found in 50 patients (82%), with atrial fibrillation in 34%. patients with bradyarrhythmic death (18%) had less complex ventricular activity compared to patients with tachyarrhythmic death (p less than 0.01). lethal arrhythmias--monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes, primary ventricular fibrillation, and 1:1 conducting atrial tachycardia--were found in 26 (43%), 15 (25%), 5 (8%), 3 (5%), and 1 patient, respectively. the coupling interval of the final ventricular tachycardia correlated inversely with the initial frequency of ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.05). for patients with tachyarrhythmic death, an increase of heart rate within the last 3 hours was noted (83 vs 89 beats/min, p less than 0.05). ventricular premature complexes and the proportion of patients with greater than 2 couplets and greater than 2 triplets increased significantly only within the last hour before death.
gastroesophageal reflux in infants. clinically significant gastroesophageal reflux occurs in one in 500 infants. symptoms resolve in 60 to 80 percent of infants by 18 months of age. thickened formula and position changes are often recommended. medication and surgical intervention may be needed in refractory cases.
a reevaluation of heparin requirements for cardiopulmonary bypass. we wished to determine if reduction in the standard heparin administration for cardiopulmonary bypass could be accomplished safely with the use of membrane oxygenators. an experimental study was designed to evaluate two different heparin administration protocols for cardiopulmonary bypass with hollow-fiber membrane oxygenators. two groups of six pigs were submitted to hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass (28 degrees c) for 3 hours, then rewarmed, decannulated, and reassessed after 1 hour. in group i (control) heparin was administered to maintain the activated clotting time in excess of 450 seconds; in group ii activated clotting time was maintained between 250 and 300 seconds. the mean total heparin administered was 41,000 units in group i and 25,000 units in group ii. concentration of coagulation factors ii, v, and viii, fibrinogen, and platelet count were determined before, during, and 1 hour after bypass. no significant difference in any of these coagulation parameters was observed between the groups. the performance of the oxygenators was similar in both groups, with no evidence of thrombosis. thus reduced heparin administration, enough to keep activated clotting time between 250 and 300 seconds, was not related either to major coagulation factors and platelet consumption or to derangements in the oxygenator's performance.
complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma: colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis. postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the eea-stapler were evaluated. in all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma. in 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level (above the anal verge: colorectal anastomosis) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level (coloanal anastomosis). there was no perioperative mortality. the only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis. in the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks, 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence, ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 (10.4%) patients. we conclude that for rectal tumors the eea-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases. stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various (early and late) complications. nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort, many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma.
nitrendipine-induced gingival hyperplasia. first case report. drug-induced gingival hyperplasia is well documented within the literature. it has been associated with phenytoin, cyclosporine, and calcium channel blocking agents. nitrendipine is an experimental calcium channel blocking agent that also appears to cause the side effect of drug-induced gingival hyperplasia. the clinical and histologic presentation of this side effect and possible biochemical mechanisms of pathogenesis are discussed.
angioplasty from the contralateral approach: use of a guiding catheter and coaxial angioplasty balloons. an 8-f guiding catheter has been developed for use with coaxial angioplasty balloon catheters in angioplasty of the femoral artery from the contralateral approach when antegrade puncture of the ipsilateral femoral artery is not possible. the catheter may be used for angioplasty of the femoral artery bifurcation and the superficial femoral artery and for arterial stenoses in patients with renal transplants.
vasal injuries during childhood and their effect on subsequent fertility. thirty subfertile males had testicular obstruction following inguinal or pelvic surgery in childhood. all 13 patients with bilateral obstruction were azoospermic and 6 had developed antibodies to spermatozoa. of 17 patients with unilateral obstruction, 11 had oligozoospermia and 6 had normal sperm counts: all had high titres of antibodies to spermatozoa (a significant difference from the men with bilateral obstruction). this indicates that male infertility can result from vasal or epididymal injuries in childhood due either to the obstruction itself or its immunological consequences. following corrective surgery and prednisolone treatment for the antibodies, where appropriate, 5/17 patients with unilateral blocks and 1/11 with bilateral blocks successfully produced pregnancies.
soluble interleukin-2 receptors in cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with various neurological disorders. soluble interleukin-2 (il-2r) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) were studied in infectious, inflammatory, degenerative, and neoplastic disorders to evaluate their usefulness as a marker for the presence of activated t cells, thus indicating an inflammatory process. csf from control subjects and patients with stationary, progressive, and treated multiple sclerosis (ms); aseptic meningitis; lymphoid and nonlymphoid central nervous system (cns) tumors; alzheimer's disease, as well as serum from ms patients and control subjects were studied for levels of soluble il-2r. a significant increase in csf il-2r levels was observed in patients with ms, meningitis, and lymphoid cns tumors; the ms group showed the highest values. csf from individuals with alzheimer's disease and from patients with nonlymphoid tumors did not show significantly elevated values. serum il-2r levels were significantly higher in ms patients than in control subjects, but there was no significant correlation between individual serum and csf il-2r levels. this study suggests the presence of activated t-lymphocytes in the cns of patients with ms.
overt hepatic encephalopathy precipitated by zinc deficiency. encephalopathy in liver disease may be unresponsive to protein restriction, lactulose, and neomycin. zinc supplements have been reported to improve psychometric performance in liver cirrhosis, but the importance of zinc deficiency in overt hepatic encephalopathy has not yet been clearly established. a patient with severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy was studied to determine the relation between her signs of encephalopathy and zinc deficiency. the study included a period in which zinc deficiency was artificially induced by oral histidine. an episode of overt encephalopathy occurred that was identical to earlier episodes and responded to oral zinc. the study showed an association between encephalopathy and zinc deficiency by successive zinc depletion and supplementation regimens. long-term zinc supplementation improved severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy and therefore the quality of life.
simultaneous transesophageal atrial pacing and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography: a new method of stress echocardiography the diagnostic use of exercise echocardiography has been widely reported. however, transthoracic exercise echocardiography is inadequate in up to 20% of patients because of poor image quality related to exercise. in an attempt to overcome these limitations, a system was developed in which transesophageal echocardiography is combined with simultaneous transesophageal atrial pacing by means of the same probe. in a prospective study, transesophageal echocardiography was performed before, during and immediately after maximal atrial pacing in 50 patients with suspected coronary artery disease. results of transesophageal stress echocardiography were considered abnormal when new pacing-induced regional wall motion abnormalities were observed. correlative routine bicycle exercise testing was carried out in 44 patients. cardiac catheterization was performed in all patients. the success rate in obtaining high quality diagnostic images was 100% by transesophageal echocardiography. all nine patients without angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease had a normal result on the transesophageal stress echocardiogram (100% specificity). thirty-eight of 41 patients with coronary artery disease (defined as greater than or equal to 50% luminal diameter narrowing of at least one major vessel) had an abnormal result on the transesophageal stress echocardiogram (93% sensitivity). the sensitivity of the technique for one, two or three vessel disease was 85%, 100% and 100%, respectively, compared with 44%, 50% and 83%, respectively, for bicycle exercise testing; the 12 lead electrocardiogram (ecg) during rapid atrial pacing showed a sensitivity of 25%, 64% and 86%, respectively. thus, rapid atrial pacing combined with simultaneous transesophageal echocardiography is a highly specific and sensitive technique for the detection of coronary artery disease. ischemia-induced wall motion abnormalities were detected earlier than observed ecg changes. the technique appears to be particularly suited to patients who are unable to perform an active stress test or those with poor quality transthoracic echocardiograms.
inhibition by 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 of chemically induced erythroid differentiation of k562 leukemia cells. the physiologically active form of vitamin d, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 [1,25(oh)2d3], was found to inhibit erythroid differentiation of human leukemic k562 cells. differentiation was induced by 1 mumol/l arabinocytosine (ara-c), 40 mumol/l tiazofurin, 1 mumol/l aphidicolin, or 1 mumol/l hydroxyurea, and was monitored daily by the appearance of hemoglobin in an increasing proportion of cells. pretreatment for 48 hours with 2.4 x 10(-8) mol/l 1,25(oh)2d3, a concentration that is also optimal for induction of monocytic differentiation of hl-60 cells, reproducibly inhibited subsequent induction of erythroid differentiation by all of the above inducers, and modified the morphologic changes that ara-c produced in these cells. the inhibition of hemoglobinization was approximately 50% irrespective of the degree of differentiation produced by the various inducers, but growth inhibition associated with exposure to the inducers was not affected by 1,25(oh)2d3. similar inhibition of differentiation by 1,25(oh)2d3 was observed in mouse erythroleukemia cells mel-d1b treated with 5 mmol/l hexamethylenebisacetamide. the inhibitory effect of 1,25(oh)2d3 on erythroid differentiation of k562 cells was abrogated by cyclohexamide (20 micrograms/ml), an inhibitor of protein synthesis. the mrna for 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor (vdr) was detected in k562 cells, and was downregulated by a 96-hour exposure to 1,25(oh)2d3 or a 48-hour exposure to ara-c. the presence of vdr mrna suggests a physiologic role for 1,25(oh)2d3 in k562 cells that are precursors of erythroid cells. this role is perhaps to shift the pathways of differentiation from the erythroid to the monocytic lineage.
antecedent medical diseases in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. a population-based case-controlled study in rochester, minn, 1925 through 1987. odds ratios (ors) were estimated for the prevalence of antecedent endocrine, metabolic, or vascular diseases among 45 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis from the rochester, minn, population compared with 90 control subjects matched for sex, year of birth, period of observation, and residence. hypertension occurred less frequently in male patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (4%) than in control subjects (30%; or = .10). because of small population size, no conclusions can be drawn with respect to the following antecedent conditions: thyroid disease (or = 1.61), coronary artery disease (or = .58), obesity (or = .52), diabetes (or = 1.00), cerebrovascular disease (or = .21), and peripheral vascular disease (or = 1.23). the heterogeneity of antecedent thyroid disease makes it highly unlikely that any specific thyroid lesion is causally associated with most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. hypertension may be a marker for protective factors against the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in men.
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. i. enhanced tolerance of immature versus adult myocardium to global ischemia with reference to metabolic differences. this study compares the metabolism and functional responses of adult and immature hearts to a standard ischemic insult. ten adult dogs (25 to 27 kg) and 10 puppies (6 to 10 weeks old) underwent 45 minutes of aortic clamping on bypass. preoperative and postoperative ventricular performance (starling curves), biochemical factors, and water content were measured. global ischemia in adults produced a 30% mortality rate (3/10) and low output syndrome in survivors (33% recovery of stroke work index). conversely, all puppies survived and stroke work index returned to 85% of control, with less edema developing (0.4% versus 2% water gain, p less than 0.05). puppies expended comparable glycogen stores but used more glutamate (15.4 versus 8.6 mumol/gm dry weight), produced more alanine (18.9 versus 6.4 mumol, p less than 0.05), succinate (19 versus 8.2 mumol, p less than 0.05), and malate (2.6 versus 0.15 mumol, p less than 0.05) during ischemia, and recovered better postischemic aerobic metabolism (410 versus 255 nmol tissue pyruvate, p less than 0.05). we conclude that tolerance of immature hearts to ischemia is related to amino acid utilization by transamination and increased substrate level phosphorylation, as occurring in diving mammals, suggesting retention of intrautero adaptive mechanisms.
treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and leucovorin. based on in vitro studies that have demonstrated synergy between 5-fluorouracil (5-fu), leucovorin (lv), and cisplatin (cddp) against human colon cancer cell lines, a clinical trial was initiated to determine the effects of this combination in patients with advanced unresectable colorectal carcinoma. fifty-nine patients were enrolled in the study and 12 of them had received prior conventional 5-fu chemotherapy. treatment consisted of 4 weekly courses of high-dose lv (200 mg/m2) administered by intravenous (iv) bolus, followed by 5-fu (550 mg/m2) and cddp (20 mg/m2) each administered as a 2-hour infusion on 4 consecutive days. after a median of 5.5 treatment cycles, objective tumor response was seen in 20 of 59 patients (34%) (this included 3 complete remissions). the response rate in the 47 previously untreated patients was 38% (95% confidence limits, 26% to 53%). stable disease occurred in 16 (27%) patients, whereas the tumor progressed in 23 (39%) patients. the median survival time was 11.5 months, with 15% of the patients alive at 2 years. the regimen was well tolerated and the primary side effects were mild and reversible gastrointestinal symptoms and myelosuppression. there was no episode of life-threatening toxicity. eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog) grade iii adverse reactions that required 25% dose reductions occurred in only 14% of the patients. the results of this trial suggest that 5-fu, lv, and cddp is an active, safe, and well-tolerated combination regimen in patients with advanced colorectal cancer.
short stature, mental retardation, and hypoparathyroidism: a new syndrome. eight children (four boys and four girls) with extreme failure to thrive, dysmorphic features, developmental delay, hypoparathyroidism, and abnormal skeletal survey were studied. they were the products of seven consanguinous marriages, two of the patients being brothers. in the remaining six families, a further four children had affected siblings who had died in infancy. when assessed the children were aged 0.47-12.8 years; sd scores were less than -2 for height, weight, and head circumference in all patients. the children had identical facies with deep set eyes, depressed nasal bridge with beaked nose, long philtrum, thin upper lip, micrognathia, and large floppy earlobes. they were all developmentally retarded. the following abnormalities were found on investigation: hypocalcaemia in all (of whom six of seven had hypoparathyroidism), medullary stenosis and other skeletal survey defects in seven of the eight children, and reduced numbers of t cell subsets in four of four tested. we believe that these children represent a new, as yet undescribed genetically determined syndrome.
clinicopathological features of elevated lesions of the duodenal bulb. we present here our findings on patients with an elevated lesion of the duodenal bulb. all these patients were treated in our clinics between the years 1984 and 1988. these lesions were present in 36 of 8,802 patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal pan-endoscopy. two patients had a duodenal carcinoma, 2 an adenoma, and 1 a brunner's gland adenoma. there were 15 with a hyperplastic polyp, 3 with a heterogenic gastric mucosa, 3 with brunner's gland hyperplasia, 6 with duodenitis, and 4 with regenerative mucosa. among these 36 lesions, only 69% (25 lesions) were evident on the upper gastrointestinal x-ray series. adenoma and brunner's gland adenoma were of a pedunculated form of the gross type and had an irregular surface mucosa. both duodenal carcinomas were detected by endoscopic biopsy and were resected. histologically, these lesions were limited to the submucosal layer and were of the non-pedunculated polypoid form, but there were no other characteristic endoscopic features, in comparison with other elevated lesions. thus, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with routine observations of the duodenal bulb plus endoscopic biopsy will lead to a definite diagnosis of these elevated lesions and to the early detection and treatment of this rare malignant lesion.
mallory-weiss syndrome after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. we report hematemesis from mallory-weiss tears after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr). a computer search of the english language literature disclosed only 3 similar cases, and we review them. this complication of cpr may occur more frequently than recognized and should be prevented by careful technique.
usefulness of color-flow doppler in diagnosing and in differentiating supracristal ventricular septal defect from right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. color-flow doppler is used for special localization of cardiac flows. the transeptal jet in supracristal ventricular septal defect (vsd) is directed toward the pulmonary valve and is often difficult to distinguish from the right ventricular (rv) outflow tract flow. pulsed- and continuous-wave doppler can misread the vsd jet as a stenotic lesion in the rv outflow tract. this study describes the color-flow doppler characteristics of supracristal vsd and determines if color-flow doppler can differentiate supracristal vsd jets from rv outflow tract flow. the study group comprised 28 patients ranging in age from 3 days to 23 years (mean 6.4), with catheter-diagnosed supracristal vsd in 14, isolated pulmonary valve stenosis in 10 and rv infundibular obstruction in 4. the echocardiographic doppler and color-flow doppler data of all patients were reviewed without knowledge of catheterization diagnosis. in all patients with supracristal vsd, color-flow doppler revealed an abnormal transeptal jet directed toward the pulmonary valve that occurred 5 to 10 ms before rv outflow tract flow was identified. vsd and rv outflow tract jet could be differentiated by pulsed- and continuous-wave doppler alone in 10 of 14 patients (71%). in 4 patients, differentiation was possible only with color-flow doppler and electrocardiographic gating. associated aortic regurgitation, or a fistula, or both, were detected in 6 patients. pulsed- and continuous-wave doppler with or without color-flow doppler correctly identified the level of obstruction in all patients with rv outflow tract lesions (14 of 14). supracristal vsd jet occurs in early systole and is directed toward the pulmonary valve.
selection of therapy for stage iii breast cancer. locally advanced breast cancer is a heterogenous group including both operable and inoperable lesions. local surgery or radiation alone produces poor survival rates, indicating micrometastases at diagnosis. systemic chemotherapy as part of multimodality regimens has increased the length and rate of disease-free survival.
leukemia initiated by hemopoietic stem cells expressing the v-abl oncogene. we report a mouse model with which to study leukemogenesis initiated by a specific genetic change introduced into a primary lymphoid-myeloid pluripotent stem cell. fetal liver hemopoietic cells were infected with a high titer of helper-free abelson murine leukemia virus (a-mulv) and were used to reconstitute lethally irradiated mice. two weeks later, progenies of a single primitive hemopoietic stem cell carrying a specifically integrated a-mulv proviral dna could be detected in both colony-forming units in spleen and myeloid colony-forming cells in the bone marrow. beginning at 3 weeks after transplantation, the recipients developed elevated leukocyte counts, splenomegaly, and increase of blast cells in the peripheral blood. multiple clones of a-mulv-infected cells were infused into each recipient. however, in the same animal, dna extracted from various affected organs and from factor-independent lymphoid and myeloid immortalized cells all contained an identical, specifically integrated proviral genome. the a-mulv-infected stem cells differentiated into various lineages of hemopoietic cells. our data show that the expression of the v-abl oncogene in a primary lymphoid-myeloid hemopoietic stem cell directly initiates leukemogenesis by stimulating factor-independent growth. the monoclonal-type disease development seen in these animals may require the occurrence of an additional genetic event.
evaluation of minor head trauma in children younger than two years. the recent medical literature emphasizes the limitations of skull films in the evaluation of minor head trauma. however, the emergency medicine literature places little emphasis on the particular risks in children younger than 2 years old with blunt head injury. these children have immature bone and unfused sutures that may increase risk of cranial injury and delayed complications. a case is presented to illustrate this point. unlike severe head trauma, where evaluation is directed toward computed tomography, the literature continues to be controversial regarding the indications for skull radiographs and computed tomography in minor head trauma. the authors recommend a low threshold for radiographic imaging in blunt heat injuries in children younger than 2 years.
spinal cord inhibitory mechanisms in parkinson's disease. we studied two spinal cord inhibitory mechanisms, recurrent (renshaw) inhibition and reciprocal inhibition, in seven patients with asymmetric parkinson's disease in order to determine their contribution to the pathogenesis of rigidity. recurrent inhibition, studied in the leg, did not differ from that found in normal subjects. all three periods of reciprocal inhibition, studied in the forearm, were present but reduced in magnitude compared with those observed in normal subjects. the arms, whether more symptomatic or less symptomatic, gave similar results. the diminution of all three periods of reciprocal inhibition is similar to the findings in patients with dystonia and is apparently indicative of an abnormal supraspinal influence on spinal mechanisms in these two disorders of basal ganglia function.
anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using freeze-dried, ethylene oxide-sterilized, bone-patellar tendon-bone allografts. two year results in thirty-six patients [published erratum appears in am j sports med 1991 may-jun;19(3):272] thirty-six of 44 patients (82%) who underwent acl reconstruction using freeze-dried, ethylene oxide-sterilized, bone-patellar tendon-bone allografts were evaluated at least 2 years postoperatively. a detailed subjective evaluation using the lysholm scale was recorded as well as a functional evaluation using the tegner activity scale. all of the patients received a detailed physical examination that included testing with the kt-1000 ligament arthrometer and the cybex dynamometer. complete chart reviews and radiographic evaluations were also obtained. only 17 patients were considered to be functionally successful and performing at their desired activity level. the average kt-1000 showed a side-to-side difference of 5.9 mm at 30 pounds for the successful group and 7.9 mm for those who had functional failure. the lysholm scores were 91.6/100 versus 61.1/100 in the failures. eight patients (22%) at repeat surgery were noted to have complete dissolution of the graft. large femoral cysts were noted radiographically in all of these patients. it was concluded that freeze-dried, ethylene oxide-sterilized, bone-patellar tendon-bone allografts have a high failure rate and cannot be recommended for acl reconstruction.
growth and spread of hepatocellular carcinoma. a review of 240 consecutive autopsy cases. all 240 consecutive cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) that underwent autopsy at the national cancer center hospital (tokyo, japan) between september 1962 and august 1986 were reviewed. among these cases, 162, for which photographs of cut surfaces of the primary tumors were available, were grossly classified using a combination of both eggel's classification and our own into three major types, i.e., nodular, massive, and diffuse as described by eggel (eggel h, beitr pathol anat 1901; 30:506-604), and three subgroups of nodular type, i.e., single nodular type (type 1), single nodular type with extranodular growth (type 2), and contiguous multinodular type (type 3) by our classification (kanai t et al., cancer 1987; 60:810-819). seventy-eight cases were classified as nodular type, comprising seven cases of type 1, 61 cases of type 2, and ten cases of type 3. sixty-seven and 17 cases were classified as massive and diffuse type, respectively. of the 78 nodular-type tumors, 59 measured less than 10 cm, whereas 64 of 67 massive-type tumors were 10 cm or more in size. the incidence of intrahepatic and extrahepatic tumor spread of hcc was significantly higher for tumors measuring more than 5 cm. as to the relationship between macroscopic type and tumor spread, the frequency of spread was lowest for type 1 tumors, and high for the other types. intrahepatic metastasis was detected in 28.6% of type 1, 93.4% of type 2, 100% of type 3, and 98.5% of massive-type tumors. lymph node metastasis was detected in 14.3% of type 1, 24.6% of type 2, 70% of type 3, 38.8% of massive-type and 52.9% of diffuse-type tumors. hematogenous extrahepatic metastasis was detected in 14.3% of type 1, 47.5% of type 2, 70% of type 3, 74.6% of massive-type and 82.4% of diffuse-type tumors. it appears that not only primary tumor size but also its macroscopic type has an important influence on the growth and spread of hcc.
fulminant hepatitis after lisinopril administration. a case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported. jaundice, fever, myalgia, and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment. continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade iii encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels. this case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure.
impairment of sequences of memory-guided saccades after supplementary motor area lesions. different paradigms of saccades were recorded electro-oculographically in 2 patients with infarction affecting the left supplementary motor area. saccades made toward visual targets (visually-guided saccades) or away from them (antisaccades) were normal in both patients. memory-guided saccades, made to the remembered position of a flash occurring 2 seconds before, were preserved in 1 patient and only slightly impaired in the other. however, sequences of two or three memory-guided saccades were severely impaired in both patients. it has previously been reported that the supplementary motor area plays an important role in programming sequential limb movements. our data suggest that this area plays a similar role in the control of sequential eye movements.
interleukin-6 mrna and protein increase in vivo following induction of acute thrombocytopenia in mice. induction of experimental thrombocytopenia in rodents results in the enhancement of megakaryocytic growth and differentiation. interleukin-3 (il-3) and il-6, cytokines with a broad spectrum of biologic activities, stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro. to determine if expression of these factors might increase in response to experimental thrombocytopenia, we measured steady-state levels of il-3 and il-6 mrna following rabbit antiplatelet serum (aps) injection. groups of mice were injected intravenously with 0.2 ml aps while control animals received rabbit antilymphocyte serum (als), normal rabbit serum (nrs), or phosphate-buffered saline (pbs). at various times up to 72 hours after injection mice were exsanguinated and splenectomized. platelet counts in the experimental animals were less than 12% of controls. splenic rna was hybridized in solution to 32p-utp-labeled crna probes for il-3 and il-6. rnase-resistant hybrids were resolved on denaturing gels and visualized autoradiographically. il-3 hybrids were undetectable at all time points tested, irrespective of the film exposure time or specific activity of the probe. conversely, il-6 hybrids were easily visualized and showed peak expression at 1.5 to 2.0 hours. by 3 hours, il-6 mrna had returned almost to the level of the controls. similar results were observed in the bone marrow, although maximal il-6 mrna in that tissue was observed 4 hours following aps administration. to determine if this mrna increment was associated with a concomitant increase in bioactive protein, serum was tested for its ability to stimulate il-6-dependent b9 cells. at 1.75 hours following injection, experimental animals showed a small but significant increment in il-6 activity compared with controls (200 +/- 30 u/ml il-6 compared with 129 +/- 17 u/ml in als-injected controls, 106 +/- 17 u/ml in nrs-injected controls and 84 +/- 17 u/ml in pbs-injected controls). the data show that il-6 mrna and bioactive protein increase in response to acute immunothrombocytopenia, while no increment in il-3 is detectable. these results suggest that il-6 may play a role in the physiologic response to acute immunothrombocytopenia.
crack-related perforated gastropyloric ulcer. cocaine is a potent topical vasoconstrictor that causes nasal mucosal and dermal ulceration. use of the purified cocaine derivative "crack" has reached epidemic proportions in large cities. in 18 months we operated on 24 patients with perforated peptic ulcers. five of the patients were young (27-38 years) male crack users without prior history of gastric symptoms who presented with a perforated gastric ulcer related to smoking crack. three had had symptoms for only 1-5 days before admission. all five were afebrile, had a rigid abdomen, normal leukocyte count, and free intraabdominal air upon radiography. five other age-matched, non-crack-using patients served as case controls. their duration of symptoms was 1-24 months, they had elevated leukocyte counts on admission, and, in contrast to the crack users, four of these patients had duodenal perforations. the clinical presentation of the crack smokers and the unusual localization of the perforations imply different pathogenetic mechanisms than are commonly seen in perforated ulcer disease. with increasing abuse of crack, greater numbers of patients with this new complication may be expected to present to emergency services in urban areas.
nitrous oxide does not alter infarct volume in rats undergoing reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion. this experiment was designed to determine if nitrous oxide alters neurologic and pathologic outcome from temporary focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats deeply anesthetized with a barbiturate. two groups of rats were given intravenous methohexital such that a stable eeg pattern of burst suppression was achieved. in one group of rats (n = 11), the lungs were mechanically ventilated with 70% n2o/30% o2, and in the other group (n = 10), ventilation was done with 70% nitrogen/30% o2. the middle cerebral artery was then occluded for 2 h, during which time mean arterial pressure, blood gases, hematocrit, plasma glucose, and head temperature were held constant between groups. the total doses of methohexital administered were similar in both groups as were the plasma methohexital concentrations immediately prior to onset of ischemia. after reperfusion of the middle cerebral artery, the animals were allowed to awaken. neurologic evaluations were performed prior to ischemia and at 24 and 96 h postischemia. cerebral infarct volume was measured at 96 h postischemia using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining and computer imaging techniques. there were no neurologic differences between the n2o and nitrogen groups at any experimental interval although both groups exhibited deficits at both 24 and 96 h postischemia relative to preischemic values. the two groups also had nearly identical cerebral infarct volumes (n2o = 231 +/- 97 mm3; nitrogen = 226 +/- 75 mm3; mean +/- sd).
fatal disseminated mycobacterial infection following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin. we describe a fatal case of disseminated mycobacteriosis after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunotherapy. we summarize the prior safety record of this therapeutic modality, discuss local and systemic pathophysiological mechanisms by which dissemination might have occurred, and review the reported clinical experience with antituberculous chemotherapy for significant bacillus calmette-guerin infection. finally, we offer suggestions for prophylaxis of certain patients with a history of exposure to intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin.
acute oculogyric crisis after administration of prochlorperazine. we report a case of acute oculogyric crisis due to prochlorperazine administration in a young black woman with a concomitant viral infection. neuroleptic medications are the most common cause of drug-induced acute dystonic reactions such as oculogyric crisis. prochlorperazine is an antiemetic agent with a phenothiazine-type chemical structure and is known to cause dystonic reactions. drug-induced acute dystonic reactions are most common in young adults and in men. viral infections may also predispose patients to these adverse reactions. caution is warranted when this drug is used in patients who have other risk factors for an acute dystonic reaction.
full recovery after a chloroquine suicide attempt. the nonfatal case of a 20 year-old woman who ingested 6 grams of chloroquine in a suicide attempt is reported. after initial ventricular fibrillation, she rapidly developed a pulmonary edema with cardiogenic shock. she was successfully treated with diazepam, epinephrine, dobutamine and mechanical ventilation. plasma chloroquine levels showed an initial peak of 36 micrograms/ml. the patient was discharged fully recovered after 19 days. the interaction between chloroquine and diazepam is discussed, as is the need for careful management of epinephrine therapy.
immune competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients: i. flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subpopulation. lymphocyte subpopulations of the regional lymph nodes in 20 colorectal cancer patients were measured by flow cytometry to analyze nodal lymphocytes phenotypically. eleven patients with cholelithiasis were used as controls. comparison of lymphocyte subpopulations between colorectal cancer and control groups revealed a significantly increased rate of leu-12+ cells in the cancer patients. furthermore, a significant increase of leu-3a+ leu-8- cells and a significant decrease of leu-3a+ leu-8+ cells were also found in the paracolic nodes of the cancer patients. however, leu-2a+ leu-15- cells were not different between the both groups. meanwhile, in the cancer patients, the rates of leu-4+, leu-3a+, and leu-3a+ leu-8- cells were higher in the paracolic nodes compared with the intermediate nodes. additional investigation of the correlation between clinicopathological features of the tumors and lymphocyte subpopulations, showed that leu-12+ cells were related to the tumor size and leu-2a+ 15- cells related to the histopathological type. the foregoing results indicate that the rates of both b and helper t cells, which may specifically participate in the antibody production, increase in the regional lymph nodes of colorectal cancer patients.
the disabled driver: an unmet challenge. a survey was undertaken to determine if driving impairment secondary to a disabling injury is addressed in state licensing laws and training programs. in 35 states drivers submit voluntarily to reevaluation after disabling injuries, but no provision is made for reporting such individuals. only 15 states authorize physicians to report impaired drivers, and only seven require such reporting. based on a survey of licensing bureaus in the capital or a major city of every state, clerks (who are likely to be the source of information to injured persons) are generally not aware of reporting requirements and supervisors are only slightly better informed. of the 100 rehabilitation centers surveyed, only 36 provided on-site training for disabled drivers. voluntary submission for reevaluation after head injury does not often occur. despite being asked to do so, none of the 35 head injured patients, followed up to two years post-onset, sought reevaluation, although 21 had resumed regular driving. two of the 21 were involved in subsequent traffic accidents. common guidelines need to be established across states to ensure reevaluation of individuals with disabling conditions, delivery of accurate information concerning licensing, and availability of training programs.
cluster headache: the effect of low oxygen saturation the present study concerns the possible relationship between hypoxia and the generation of cluster headache attacks. fifteen controls and 25 cluster headache patients were studied. the patients were allocated into two groups according to cluster headache stage, i.e. cluster or remission period. during the tests, all the subjects were asked to inhale 12% oxygen (88% n2) for 30 min, and the decreasing oxygen saturation (sao2%) was monitored. patients in the remission period showed nearly the same decrement of sao2% as controls. at the end of the test, patients in the bout showed significantly less reduction of sao2% than the controls. in 5 patients, the test was carried out both in and outside the cluster periods. the tendency to less decrement in oxygen saturation in the cluster phase was as marked with this comparison, but the difference between the groups was not significant, probably partly due to the low number of tests carried out. only one patient got a typical attack. it seems that hypoxia of this magnitude per se is not the cause of attacks. the different pattern with respect to sao2% following 12% o2 inhalation in cluster headache may be due to an abnormality in central regulation and/or chemoreceptor sensitivity.
the effects of sucralfate suspension and diphenhydramine syrup plus kaolin-pectin on radiotherapy-induced mucositis. a prospective, double-blind study compared the effectiveness of sucralfate suspension with diphenhydramine syrup plus kaolin-pectin in reducing severity and pain of radiation-induced oropharyngeal mucositis. fourteen patients who received at least 4600 cgy to the oral cavity used one of the mouth rinses four times a day, beginning at 1600 cgy. data were collected on daily perceived pain and helpfulness of mouth rinse, weekly mucositis grade, weight change, and interruption of therapy. analysis of data revealed no statistically significant differences between the two groups in any parameter. a retrospective review of 15 patients who had received at least 4600 cgy radiation to the oropharynx but had not used a daily mouth-coating rinse, was compared with the study group. comparison of the two groups suggested that consistent daily oral hygiene and use of a mouth-coating agent will result in less pain and may reduce weight loss and interruption of radiation because of severe mucositis.
reverse coitus: mechanism of urethral injury in male partner. reverse coitus, a rarely used sexual position, makes the male urethra more vulnerable to injury from the pubic arch and symphysis pubis of the female partner. severe pain, bleeding and immediate detumescence were observed in 3 patients. the lesion usually occurred at the fossa navicularis, responded well to conservative management and did not hinder micturition. potency has been well preserved in all 3 patients.
central retinal artery obstruction in herpes zoster ophthalmicus and cerebral vasculopathy. we present a case of acute central retinal artery obstruction in association with herpes zoster ophthalmicus and delayed cerebral vasculopathy. retinal vascular obstruction is rare in zoster, and its occurrence during postherpetic cerebral vasculopathy has not been reported previously to our knowledge. the syndrome of delayed cerebral vasculopathy is discussed as is its possible relationship to central retinal artery obstruction.
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma. severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma. thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma, of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms, were studied serologically. four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay. antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility, nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction (n = 8), ovarian cancer (n = 20), or epilepsy (n = 4) or in normal subjects (n = 9). in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction, antibodies in highly diluted serum (1:4000-1:8000) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut. this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis. from a clinical standpoint, serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma, thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor.
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas. i. cytogenetic analysis and mechanism of origin. one hundred and two benign, mature ovarian teratomas and two immature, malignant teratomas were karyotyped and scored for centromeric heteromorphisms as part of an ongoing project to determine the chromosomal karyotype and the genetic origin of ovarian teratomas and to assess their utility for gene-centromere mapping. karyotypic analysis of the benign cases revealed 95 46,xx teratomas and 7 chromosomally abnormal teratomas (47,xxx, 47,xx,+8 [two cases], 47,xx,+15, 48,xx,+7,+12 91,xxxx,-13 [mosaic], 47,xx,-15,+21,+mar). our study reports on the first cases of tetraploidy and structural rearrangement in benign ovarian teratomas. the two immature cases had modal chromosome numbers of 78 and 49. centromeric heteromorphisms that were heterozygous in the host were homozygous in 65.2% (n = 58) of the benign teratomas and heterozygous in the remaining 34.8% (n = 31). chromosome 13 heteromorphisms were the most informative, with 72.7% heterozygosity in hosts. the cytogenetic data indicate that 65% of teratomas are derived from a single germ cell after meiosis i and failure of meiosis ii (type ii) or endoreduplication of a mature ovum (type iii); 35% arise by failure of meiosis i (type i) or mitotic division of premeiotic germ cells (type iv).
safety and efficacy of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. a prospective analysis of 100 initial patients laparoscopic cholecystectomy quickly emerged as an alternative to open cholecystectomy. however its safety, efficacy, and morbidity have yet to be fully evaluated. during the first 6 months of 1990, we performed 100 consecutive laparoscopic cholecystectomies with no deaths and a morbidity rate of 8% (8 of 100 patients; 4 major, 4 minor). there were 81 women and 19 men, with a mean age of 46.1 years (range, 17 to 84 years). all patients had a preoperative history consistent with symptomatic biliary tract disease, and most had proved gallstones by sonography. this included four patients with acute cholecystitis. mean operating time improved significantly from month 1 to month 6 (122 +/- 45.4 minutes versus 78.5 +/- 30 minutes, respectively), indicating a rapid learning curve. mean hospital stay was 27.6 hours, reflecting a policy of overnight stay. postoperative narcotic requirements were limited to oral or no medications in more than 70% of patients. a regular diet was tolerated by 83% of the patients by the morning following the procedure. median time of return to full activity was 12.8 +/- 6.8 days after operation. in addition analysis of the hospital costs of these 100 cases demonstrates a modest cost advantage over standard open cholecystectomy (n = 58) (mean, $3620.25 +/- $1005.00 versus $4251.76 +/- $988.00). there was one minor bile duct injury requiring laparotomy and t-tube insertion, two postoperative bile collections, and one clinical diagnosis of a retained stone that passed spontaneously. four patients required conversion to open cholecystectomy because of technical difficulties with the dissection. although there is a significant learning curve, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe and effective procedure that can be performed with minimal risk. laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed by surgeons who are trained in biliary surgery and knowledgeable in biliary anatomy, and, as with all operations, it should be performed with meticulous attention to technique.
standard v lightweight wheelchair propulsion in spinal cord injured patients. twenty-six male sci subjects (six quadriplegics, eight "high paraplegics," and 12 "low paraplegics") propelled both standard and lightweight wheelchairs at a "sprint pace" (sp) for 400 feet, and at a "duration pace" (du) for four continuous minutes. pulse, blood pressure and respirations were measured before and after each trial, and v was calculated. appropriate training and rest periods were given; order of wheelchair testing was randomized. a questionnaire was later administered. variations in pulse, systolic blood pressure, and respirations were significant between myelopathic levels (p less than 0.01), but were not affected by the type of wheelchair used. quadriplegic v was less (p less than 0.01) than that of either paraplegic group for sp and du trials; for sp, lightweight wheelchair v is faster (p less than 0.01) than standard wheelchair v for all groups.
five-year results of coronary bypass grafting for patients older than 70 years: role of internal mammary artery. despite numerous references to the superiority of the internal mammary artery (ima) over the saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization, its role in the elderly is still in question. from january 1984 through december 1988, 1,081 patients older than 70 years (mean age, 74.9 years) underwent bypass grafting, 354 (33%) receiving left ima grafts based on the surgeon's preference and 727 (67%) receiving vein grafts only. selection bias resulted in a higher incidence of known risk factors (such as cardiomegaly, arrhythmias, left ventricular failure, wall motion abnormalities, and preoperative combined new york heart association/canadian cardiovascular association functional class iv) in patients in whom the ima was not used. however, unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction, left ventricular dysfunction, and left main disease were not contraindications for using ima grafts. the operative mortality rate was significantly lower in ima patients (2.8% versus 7.6%). the actuarial 5-year survival rate (standard error) was higher in patients with ima grafts, 89% (3%) versus 78% (2%), and postoperative functional class improved to a greater extent in ima patients (87% of patients were in classes i and ii). arrhythmias and myocardial infarction were significant causes of late death only in patients with vein grafts. when patients are older than 70 years, patient selection factors clearly play an important role in the differential results between patients in whom the ima is used and patients in whom vein grafts are used. as in younger patients, excellent results can be achieved in the elderly.
interferon alpha and etretinate combination treatment of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma. eleven patients suffering from cutaneous t-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides) were treated with recombinant interferon alpha-2a in combination (seven patients) or alone. two patients, one in combined treatment, went into clinical complete remission, and five experienced partial remission. two patients progressed during therapy, and two were nonevaluable because they stopped treatment early due to side effects. dosages of interferon were from 3 to 36 million units daily for 3 months, and thereafter 3 times weekly. etretinate (0.7 mg/kg) was given orally. the study showed that recombinant interferon alpha-2a in combination with etretinate or alone can induce remission of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma.
orocaecal transit time in duchenne muscular dystrophy. smooth muscle degeneration may occur in duchenne muscular dystrophy. we measured fasting orocaecal transit time in patients with advanced duchenne muscular dystrophy and other muscular dystrophies and in healthy controls. no significant differences were found. in contrast to reports of gastric hypomotility in duchenne muscular dystrophy, we found no evidence of impaired small intestinal motility.
infection during chronic epidural catheterization: diagnosis and treatment. a potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection. the early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted. three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved; exit site and superficial catheter track infection, and epidural space infection. the authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients. all 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal. none of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression. catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections. it was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate. the use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established.
inter- and intraindividual variation in pressure-volume relations of the rectum in normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome. the relation between intrarectal volume and pressure during increasing rectal distension by a latex balloon were studied on repeated occasions in 10 healthy adult volunteers to define variations within and between individuals. a wide intersubject variation in the maximum tolerable volume (58-908 ml) and pressure (12.2-108.8 cm h2o) at this end point was seen, and these two values were correlated (r = 0.78). intrasubject variation in maximum tolerable volume also occurred which was related to study order and progressively reduced with repeated study. in 26 unselected patients with pain predominant irritable bowel syndrome similar intersubject variation was noted and virtually all patients data fell within the calculated 95% confidence limits of the normal individuals. differentiation between patients and normal subjects was not possible from knowledge of rectal responses. these noticeable inter- and intrasubject variations in rectal responses to distension need to be considered whenever similar techniques are proposed for use in the study of rectal disease or of rectal response to treatment.
treatable complications in undiagnosed cases of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. in a study to determine the proportion of unrecognised cases and the prevalence of treatable complications of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd), 46 probands were identified through genetics and renal clinics in melbourne, australia. 321 offspring of the probands who were older than 15 years and had not been previously diagnosed as having adpkd were identified. 68 (21%) had ultrasound evidence of polycystic kidney disease. of this previously undiagnosed group, 25 (37%) had one or more treatable complications at the time of diagnosis. the complications included 20 cases of hypertension (diastolic blood pressure 95 mm hg or above), 7 cases of impaired renal function (serum creatinine 0.12 mmol/l or above), and 4 cases of bacterial urinary tract infection. 8 people had several complications. adpkd has an important treatable component which is not being treated in a substantial proportion of affected individuals, because the disease is not being diagnosed despite the presence of a positive family history.
is primary repair of gastroschisis and omphalocele always the best operation? optimal surgical management of neonates with gastroschisis and omphalocele remains controversial. suggested benefits of primary fascial closure include earlier return of gastrointestinal function, decreased hospital stay, less sepsis, less risk of postoperative intestinal obstruction and fistulae, and lower mortality. between 1978 and 1989, 40 neonates with gastroschisis or omphalocele underwent repair. primary fascial repair was performed in 30 children, 18 of whom had a gastroschisis and 12 of whom had an omphalocele. ten children had staged repair with the use of a silastic silo; seven of these had a gastroschisis and three an omphalocele. comparison between the groups was made regarding birth weight, days on the ventilator before and after surgery, days to first feeding, days in the hospital after surgery, postoperative complications, and survival. there was no significant difference in birth weight, days on the ventilator, days to first feeding, and postoperative days in the hospital. there were nine complications in nine patients (30%) with primary repair and four complications in two patients (20%) with staged repair. two infants died after primary repair (6.7%), and one (10%) died after staged closure. it was concluded that silastic silo repair and primary fascial closure are both acceptable alternatives. primary closure is attractive whenever possible to avoid additional operations.
acute coronary artery occlusion during and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. frequency, prediction, clinical course, management, and follow-up [published erratum appears in circulation 1991 jul;84(1):446] background. acute coronary artery occlusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) continues to remain a serious complication despite significant improvement in operator performance and technological advancements. this retrospective study was performed to ascertain the frequency, predictive variables, management, and outcome of acute coronary artery occlusion. methods and results. the study was based on data from 1,423 consecutive patients who underwent an elective coronary angioplasty between january 1986 and december 1988. acute coronary artery occlusion occurred in 104 patients (7.3%). acute occlusion developed during the dilatation procedure in 80 patients (5.6%) and within 24 hours after the procedure in 24 patients (1.7%). four clinical and 14 angiographic variables predictive for acute coronary artery occlusion were analyzed in these 104 patients with a complicated procedure and were compared with those in 104 representative patients with successful attempts. multivariate analysis found three independent predictive variables: unstable angina, multivessel disease, and complex lesions. the overall clinical outcome after management of acute coronary artery occlusion including immediate repeat dilatation (95 patients), use of intracoronary streptokinase (34 patients), or autoperfusion catheter (12 patients) was successful (reduction of lumen diameter to less than 50%, no death, no myocardial infarction [mi], and no emergency surgery) in 42 patients (40%), was a failure without major complication in four patients (4%), and was a failure with major complication (death, mi, and emergency surgery) in 58 patients (56%). the overall mortality rate was 6% (six patients), the overall mi rate was 36% (37 patients), and emergency bypass surgery was required in 30% of patients (31 patients). at 6 months' follow-up of 42 patients with successful management, recurrent angina pectoris due to restenosis occurred in 10 patients (24%), and a late mi occurred in one patient (3%). at 6 months' follow-up of 56 survivors with unsuccessful management (development of mi or need for emergency bypass surgery), recurrent angina occurred in nine patients (16%), and cardiac death in two patients (4%). however, the majority of patients in both groups were either symptom free or had mild angina pectoris. conclusion. acute coronary artery occlusion during ptca is often unpredictable, but its frequency is higher in patients with unstable angina, multivessel disease, and complex lesions. despite immediate redilatation, use of intracoronary streptokinase, and emergency bypass surgery, ptca is associated with a high mortality and morbidity.
combination therapy for anaplastic giant cell thyroid carcinoma. since 1981, 20 patients with anaplastic giant cell carcinoma of the thyroid have been prospectively treated according to a combination regimen of chemotherapy and external beam radiation therapy. two types of chemotherapy were used every 4 weeks, depending on the patient's age. for those younger than 65 years, a combination of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and cisplatin (90 mg/m2) was given, and for older patients mitoxantrone (14 mg/m2) was used. radiotherapy was carried out between day 10 and day 20 of the first four cycles of chemotherapy. it delivered 17.5 gy in 7 fractions to the neck and the superior mediastinum. survival exceeding 20 months was observed in three patients. complete neck tumor response was observed in five patients, among whom four had undergone previous operations. no response was seen in distant metastases, which were the cause of death in 14 patients. these treatment modalities are effective in some patients, both in terms of survival and of local control, avoiding death from local invasion. gross tumor resection should be performed whenever possible but should not delay the commencement of this protocol. toxicity was high and remains the main limiting factor.
end diastolic flow velocity just beneath the aortic isthmus assessed by pulsed doppler echocardiography: a new predictor of the aortic regurgitant fraction. end diastolic flow velocity just beneath the aortic isthmus was measured within 72 hours of cardiac catheterisation by pulsed doppler echocardiography in 30 controls and 61 patients with aortic regurgitation. the end diastolic flow velocity was determined at the peak r wave on a simultaneously recorded electrocardiogram. in all controls there was no reverse flow at the end diastole beneath the aortic isthmus. in patients with aortic regurgitation the end diastolic flow velocity correlated well with the angiographic grade of regurgitation (r = 0.81) and regurgitant fraction (r = 0.82). the mean (sd) values were 6.3 (5.2), 12.2 (4.3), 22.1 (5.7), and 34.3 (9.3) cm/s for patients with regurgitant fraction of less than 20%, between 20% and 40%, between 41% and 60%, and greater than 60%, respectively. an end diastolic flow velocity of greater than 18 cm/s predicted a regurgitant fraction of greater than or equal to 40% with a sensitivity of 88.5% and a specificity of 96%. the study suggests that the pulsed doppler derived end diastolic flow velocity is a useful index in the routine non-invasive assessment of the severity of aortic regurgitation.
balloon dilatation versus surgical revision of infra-inguinal autogenous vein graft stenoses: long-term follow-up. although infra-inguinal autogenous vein graft stenoses may be treated by balloon dilatation (pta) or surgical revision, the optimal approach is undefined. over the last 7 years 24 pta procedures were performed on 37 vein graft stenoses in 19 grafts. graft stenoses were diagnosed from 2 to 72 (mean = 17.3) months after implantation. pta was successfully completed in 23 (96%) of the 24 procedures including 18 (95%) of the primary, and 5 (100%) of the secondary procedures. recurrent vein graft stenosis or graft thrombosis developed in 12 (67%) grafts from 3 to 47 (mean = 12.5) months after primary pta. long-term patency after primary pta was 69% at 6, 29% at 12, and 22% at 36 months; secondary patency was 81% at 6, 45% at 12, and 27% at 36 months. during the same period vein graft stenosis in 7 fem-pop and 2 fem-tib grafts were surgically revised with an initial success rate of 100%, and 2 (22%) complications. four (44%) of these grafts occluded from 1-17 (mean 6.2) months after repair, yielding a primary 5-year patency of 62%. although vein graft stenosis may be safely, effectively, and repeatedly treated with pta, long-term durability appears to be superior after surgical revision.
normeperidine-induced seizures in hereditary coproporphyria. seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria, even though the etiology is not identified in most cases. we have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria. although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients, this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria. normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants.
adjuvant chemotherapy for primary lymphoma of the central nervous system. ten immunocompetent patients with primary non-hodgkin's lymphoma of the central nervous system were treated by the neuro-oncology service at the university of california at san francisco (ucsf). after undergoing surgery for biopsy or removal of their tumors, these patients (group 1) received irradiation with hydroxyurea followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with the combination of procarbazine, lomustine (ccnu), and vincristine. the outcome of treatment in this group was compared with that in three other groups of patients with primary cns lymphoma: patients treated at the ucsf cancer research institute who underwent surgery and radiation therapy (rt) (group 2); patients described in the literature who had surgery and rt (group 3); or patients described in the literature who had surgery, rt, and chemotherapy (group 4). median and quartile survival times were greater in patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy (group 1, 30 and 50 months; group 4, 20 and 25 months) than in patients who did not receive chemotherapy after rt (group 2, 13 and 20 months; group 3, 15 and 24 months). these results suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy is useful in the treatment of primary cns lymphoma.
segregation analysis of breast cancer from the cancer and steroid hormone study: histologic subtypes the segregation pattern of breast cancer in white families from the cancer and steroid hormone study was investigated. families were categorized into four groups based on the histologic type of breast cancer in the probands:ductal cancer, lobular cancer, adenocarcinoma, and medullary cancer. the ductal cancer sample was further split into a premenopausal-proband and a postmenopausal-proband subset. results for six complex segregation analyses are presented; the findings suggest heterogeneity in the transmission of breast cancer. for all analyses, there was no evidence for a multifactorial component in the mixed model, ie, a major locus plus other transmission, genetic and/or cultural. interpretation of the medullary cancer, adenocarcinoma, and lobular cancer analyses does not permit discrimination among the major locus models. segregation of breast cancer in the entire ductal sample was consistent with autosomal recessive transmission. in the ductal subanalyses, a recessive gene was sufficient to explain the breast cancer distribution when the proband had postmenopausal breast cancer. in contrast, when the proband had premenopausal breast cancer, the transmission model was consistent with a dominant major gene, with sporadic cases of disease.
new type of bcr/abl junction in philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia. a new and rare type of bcr/abl junction between exon c3 of the 3' portion of the bcr gene and abl exon 2 has been identified in the leukemic cells of two ph1-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia patients in chronic phase. this is the fourth type of bcr/abl junction so far identified in ph1-positive hematologic malignancies and is a consequence of an unusual breakpoint position on chromosome 22 that falls approximately 20 kb downstream of the major breakpoint cluster region (bcr) of the bcr gene. the new hybrid mrna is 540 base pairs (bp) longer than that expressed by the k562 cell line and could codify for a bcr/abl protein carrying 180 additional aminoacids with respect to the larger p210 protein so far identified. the hematologic phenotype expressed by the two patients carrying this unusual type of bcr/abl rearrangement does not significantly differ from that commonly seen in chronic myelogenous leukemia.
diagnostic value of brush cytology in the diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma: a study in 65 patients with bile duct strictures. malignant strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts are difficult to distinguish from benign strictures, particularly in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. because attempts at diagnosing small cancers with fine-needle aspiration biopsy are not possible in the absence of an associated mass lesion and because the sensitivity of exfoliative biliary cytology is controversial, brush cytology has been used as a potential means of establishing a specific diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma. herein we report our experience with this technique when performed on 65 patients over a 5-yr period. each had at least one brushing. thirty-seven were found to have bile duct carcinoma and 28 were found to have benign strictures. of these 37, the first brushing was positive for malignancy in 15 (40%), whereas four (11%) had cells suspected but not diagnostic of malignancy. thirteen patients with bile duct carcinoma whose initial brushings were negative for malignancy had second brushings. of these, five (38%) had malignant cells, whereas three (24%) yielded suspicious cells. three of the eight whose first two brushings were negative for malignancy were found to have malignant cells on the third brushing. in contrast, of the 28 patients with benign strictures, malignant cells were never found. however, in two patients, suspicious cells were reported with the first but not the second brushing. a single negative or suspicious cytological finding decreased the probability of bile duct carcinoma to 43%. two and three sequential negative tests reduced the probability to 32% and 0%, respectively.
a randomized control trial of two cervical spatulas the sampling efficacy of the ayre and rocket cervical spatulas was compared in a randomized controlled trial involving 533 women who were attending a colposcopy clinic either for investigation of cytological abnormality or for review after treatment of cin. smears were compared with respect to the presence of cytological abnormality and two types of normal cervical epithelial cells (endocervical and immature metaplastic cells) which are considered indicators of adequate cytological sampling. smears taken with the rocket spatula were significantly less likely to contain immature metaplastic cells (95% ci on difference in proportion; 5-30%), but more likely to contain endocervical cells (95% ci 16-36%). no significant difference was found in the proportion of smears containing one or other type of indicator cell or in the yield of abnormal smears. it is concluded that the rocket spatula offered no advantage when used in these circumstances. this study illustrates how spurious conclusions of sampling efficacy can be drawn if only one type of indicator cell is used as an endpoint.
persistent hepatitis b virus following interferon alfa therapy and liver transplantation. a 44-year-old man with chronic hepatitis b virus infection and cirrhosis was treated with recombinant human interferon alfa for 67 days immediately before orthotopic liver transplantation and immunoprophylaxis with hyperimmune globulin to hepatitis b virus in the peritransplant period. dot blots for hepatitis b virus dna demonstrated marked reduction in viremia after 41 days of interferon alfa treatment. southern analysis for hepatitis b virus in liver showed a pronounced decrement in actively replicating forms in the explant, although hepatic infection was still detectable. after liver transplantation, tests for serum hepatitis b virus dna and hepatitis b surface antigen remained negative. the patient died 32 days after transplantation of causes unrelated to hepatitis b virus. dna isolated from liver and other visceral organs at autopsy showed infection of the engrafted liver and the persistence of monomeric relaxed circular forms of hepatitis b virus dna in pancreas, kidney, and spleen. thus, graft reinfection occurred despite aggressive antiviral therapy and immunoprophylaxis combined with liver transplantation. existing viral serological markers appear insufficiently sensitive to assess residual infectivity.
long-term vascular access via the inferior vena cava. a prospective evaluation of long-term venous access catheters placed via the inferior vena cava was performed to determine their efficacy as well as short- and long-term morbidity. from june 1987 to may 1989, 31 catheters were placed in 26 patients, for a total of 3,503 catheter use days. all catheters were placed via an infraumbilical approach when the more conventional supraumbilical route was technically difficult, dangerous, or impossible to be used. there were a total of 14 complications in 12 episodes (one in every 701 catheter use days), six episodes of catheter occlusion or vessel thrombosis (one in every 583 catheter use days), one catheter malfunction, one episode of cuff erosion through the skin, and one catheter that migrated through the inferior vena cava into the retroperitoneum. these results compared favorably with our experience with long-term catheters of a similar type placed via a supraumbilical approach into the superior vena cava. we conclude that the infraumbilical route for long-term central venous access is safe and technically easy and should be strongly considered in patients in whom venous access via the supraumbilical approach will be technically difficult or have a high likelihood of failure.
reduction of gastric ulcer recurrence after suppression of helicobacter pylori by cefixime. the effect on the recurrence of gastric ulcers after suppression of helicobacter pylori by combined treatment with cimetidine and the antimicrobial drug cefixime was investigated. twenty one of 43 patients with endoscopically proved gastric ulcer and h pylori infection were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks; the remaining 22 patients received cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks plus cefixime 100 mg daily for the last two weeks. after treatment, 88% of 17 patients on cimetidine only remained h pylori positive, whereas combined administration of cimetidine and cefixime had suppressed h pylori in 78% of 18 patients (p less than 0.05). seventeen patients in the former group whose ulcers healed but who remained h pylori positive and 18 patients in the latter group whose ulcers healed and who were no longer infected with h pylori continued to be followed after treatment. these patients underwent endoscopy to detect ulcer recurrence if symptomatic, or at 12 and 24 weeks if asymptomatic. at 12 weeks, recurrence was observed in seven of 15 (47%) patients in whom h pylori persisted, but in only one of 14 (7%) patients in whom h pylori had been suppressed (p less than 0.05). at 24 weeks, however, recurrence rates were similar between the two groups. these findings indicate that h pylori infection may be closely related to early ulcer recurrence.
incidence, determinants and significance of delayed clearance of serum hbsag in chronic hepatitis b virus infection: a prospective study. to investigate the incidence, determinants and significance of delayed clearance of serum hbsag in chronic hepatitis b virus infection, a prospective follow-up study was conducted in two consecutive groups of patients. group i consisted of 984 patients (859 men and 125 women) with biopsy-proven chronic type b hepatitis, whereas group ii consisted of 1,598 asymptomatic chronic carriers (998 men and 600 women) with normal serum aminotransferase activity. during a mean follow-up period of 4.0 +/- 2.3 yr, 19 patients (1.9%) of group i cleared hbsag from their serum, whereas 35 patients (2.2%) in group ii did so in a mean follow-up period of 2.7 +/- 1.4 yr. the annual incidence of delayed serum hbsag clearance was 0.5% in group i and 0.8% in group ii (p less than 0.02). the cumulative probability of hbsag clearance was also higher in group ii than in group i (p less than 0.007). antibodies to hbsag developed in 9 patients (47.4%) with chronic hepatitis and in 11 (31.4%) asymptomatic carriers who cleared serum hbsag. those who were hbeag negative and those older than 40 at entry and those who exhibited cirrhosis during follow-up had a higher incidence of delayed hbsag clearance. gender, initial histological changes and hepatitis delta virus infection did not influence the occurrence of hbsag clearance. serum hbv dna was not detectable by slot-blot hybridization but was still detectable by polymerase chain reaction in serum specimens collected within 1 yr of hbsag clearance. liver biopsy performed later in 10 patients showed no significant hepatitis activity or tissue hbv dna, hbsag or hbcag.
wound healing complications in soft tissue sarcoma management: comparison of three treatment protocols. a prospective, nonrandomized comparison of three treatment protocols was undertaken in 45 patients with soft tissue sarcoma designated preoperatively as being at high risk of wound healing complications. all patients underwent complete resection of the gross tumour mass (5 with positive and 40 with negative microscopic margins). fourteen patients received postoperative adjuvant irradiation (group i), 16 preoperative irradiation (group ii), and 15 preoperative irradiation and vascularized tissue transfer to the surgical bed after resection (group iii). major wound healing complications (defined as complications requiring at least 1 further surgical procedure) were lower in group iii patients (chi-square = 5.57, p less than 0.03), as was the mean postoperative hospital stay (p less than 0.02, analysis of variance), and the mean number of secondary surgical procedures. multivariate analysis showed that the only variable influencing length of stay was the use of tissue transfer. careful intraoperative assessment of the adequacy of resection is essential prior to performing vascularized tissue transfer to ensure that tumour contamination of the donor site is avoided. since this study is a nonrandomized clinical trial using sequential distribution of patients to the treatment groups, the data should be considered as preliminary, rather than definitive, evidence of the efficacy of vascularized tissue transfer.
coronary artery disease in chinese males without hypercholesterolaemia the aim of this study was to determine the frequency of various metabolic risk factors for coronary artery disease (cad) in 246 male patients studied over a 2-year period. cad was diagnosed on the basis of a history indicative of angina pectoris, an electrocardiogram diagnostic of myocardial ischaemia, and a positive coronary angiogram. thirty-eight per cent of this population had diabetes, hypertension or both. of the remaining individuals, 39% had a plasma cholesterol concentration greater than 5.2 mmol l-1, whereas 23% had a cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1. plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels of a non-smoking subset of those subjects with a total cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 were compared with values of a matched group of individuals who did not have significant vessel disease as revealed by angiography. the results of these investigations indicated that patients with cad and a plasma cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 exhibited an increase in plasma triglyceride concentration and a decrease in plasma hdl-cholesterol concentration. since these subjects were not diabetic, hypertensive or hypercholesterolaemic, it is suggested that the observed changes in triglyceride and hdl metabolism made a major contribution to the cad in these individuals.
oxygen supply and utilization relationships. a reevaluation. the relationship between oxygen transport (to2) and oxygen consumption (vo2) has been studied in patients with a number of acute and chronic disorders. many of these patients have been shown to have a linear relationship between these two variables over a wide range of to2, which has been considered as evidence of pathologic supply dependency. this supply dependency contrasts with animal studies that have clearly demonstrated a biphasic relationship between to2 and vo2. this review of the available data concerning the relationship between oxygen transport and supply under conditions of increased oxygen requirements and reduced oxygen transport suggests the possibility that the observed interaction in patients may, in many cases, represent the normal physiologic behavior of the system rather than an abnormal manifestation of impaired oxygen extraction.
spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma: a review of 172 japanese cases. the spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) accounts for 10% mortality of hcc patients in japan. because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries, it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a hcc. in an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment, we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a hcc reported in the japanese literature. the chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain. abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86% of the patients. liver failure was the cause of death in 42% of the patients. therefore, it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly. in addition, emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock. although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12% of the cases, these had the highest survival rates. consequently, this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a hcc.
intraoperative peripheral nd:yag laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty: short-term and intermediate-term follow-up. laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty was performed in 48 arteries (iliac, superficial femoral, and popliteal). indications for surgery were limb salvage (25%), rest pain (38%), and claudication (38%). patients were categorized into three groups: lesions less than 5 cm, greater than 5 to 10 cm, or greater than 10 cm in length. demographic characteristics, risk factors, and outcome measures were compared by use of fisher's exact test and student's t test. the time for vascular patency failure was compared by use of a standard kaplan-meier survival analysis for the three groups. initial failure to recanalize was noted in 14% in lesions less than 5 cm, 40% in lesions greater than 5 to 10 cm, and 73% in lesions greater than 10 cm. the overall success rate was 38%, with a mean follow up of 1 year. the less than 5 cm lesion group had a significantly higher rate of overall success (59%, p = 0.005) than the other two groups combined. the greater than 10 cm lesion group did significantly worse (9%) than the other two groups combined (p = 0.028). patients in the less than 5 cm group had significantly longer patency than the other two groups (p less than 0.01). iliac lesions had a higher overall success rate (73%) than superficial femoral and popliteal artery lesions (35%) (p = 0.038). in conclusion, the widespread application of laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty cannot be justified without further long-term clinical and laboratory investigation. conversely, the potential of this technique should not be dismissed out of hand. proper patient selection, length and nature of the lesion to be treated, and the appropriate forms, doses, and method of delivery of laser energy, remain to be defined.
sudden death during empiric amiodarone therapy in symptomatic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. amiodarone is reported to improve symptoms and to prevent sudden death in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc). amiodarone treatment (loading dose 30 g given over 6 weeks; maintenance dose 400 mg/day) was prospectively evaluated in 50 patients with hc in whom the drug was initiated because of symptoms refractory to conventional drug therapy (calcium antagonists and beta blockers). twenty-one (42%) patients had ventricular tachycardia (vt) during holter monitoring. amiodarone significantly and often markedly improved the patients' new york heart association functional class status (from 3.3 to 2.7 at 2 months, p less than 0.001) and treadmill exercise duration (p less than 0.001). eight patients, however, died (7 suddenly) during a mean follow-up period of 2.2 +/- 1.8 years. of the 7 sudden deaths, 6 occurred within 5 months of initiation of treatment. the 6-month and 1- and 2-year survival rates were 87, 85 and 80%, respectively. the survival rate of patients with vt was significantly worse than that of patients without vt (61 vs 97% at 2 years; p less than 0.01). sudden death occurred despite abolition of vt on holter monitoring. amiodarone increased left ventricular peak filling rate by radionuclide angiography in 20 of 33 patients (61%) (p less than 0.01). decrease in peak left ventricular filling rate within 10 days of amiodarone therapy (8 of 33 patients) was associated with subsequent sudden death (p less than 0.04).
the functional anatomy of motor recovery after stroke in humans: a study with positron emission tomography. we have studied regional cerebral blood flow changes in 6 patients after their recovery from a first hemiplegic stroke. all had a single well-defined hemispheric lesion and at least a brachial monoparesis that subsequently recovered. each patient had 6 measurements of cerebral blood flow by positron tomography with 2 scans at rest, 2 during movement of fingers of the recovered hand, and 2 during movement of fingers of the normal hand. when the normal fingers were moved, regional cerebral blood flow increased significantly in contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in the ipsilateral cerebellar hemisphere. when the fingers of the recovered hand were moved, significant regional cerebral blood flow increases were observed in both contralateral and ipsilateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in both cerebellar hemispheres. other regions, namely, insula, inferior parietal, and premotor cortex, were also bilaterally activated with movement of the recovered hand. we have also demonstrated, by using a new technique of image analysis, different functional connections between the thalamic nuclei and specific cortical and cerebellar regions during these movements. our results suggest that ipsilateral motor pathways may play a role in the recovery of motor function after ischemic stroke.
l-tryptophan implicated in human eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome causes fasciitis and perimyositis in the lewis rat. tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (l-trp-ems) is a newly described syndrome which occurred in epidemic fashion in the united states in the summer and fall of 1989. epidemiologic data has linked the syndrome to intake of l-tryptophan (l-trp) from one specific manufacturer, but the precise etiologic compound(s) must be established by replication of the syndrome in an appropriate animal model. in this study, implicated l-trp, united states pharmacopeia (usp) grade l-trp, or vehicle was administered by gavage in a blinded fashion for 38 d to female lewis rats at doses comparable with those ingested by patients who developed the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. animals receiving implicated l-trp, but not those receiving usp grade l-trp or vehicle, developed histologic signs consistent with fasciitis and perimyositis, specific pathologic features of human l-trp-ems. peripheral blood eosinophilia was not observed. hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone mrna levels were lower and plasma corticosterone levels tended to be lower in the animals that received implicated l-trp. plasma l-kynurenine was higher in both l-trp-treated groups compared to the vehicle-treated animals. the female lewis rat is known to be susceptible to a wide variety of inflammatory diseases. identification of specific inflammatory changes in this rat following exposure to implicated l-trp indicates that this animal model will be important in subsequent investigations into the etiology, pathogenesis, and treatment of human l-trp-ems.
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells. mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy. we have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide (plp). immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of plp cytoplasmic immunopositivity. plp immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells. the results of these studies suggest that plp immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that plp production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma.
hemodynamic efficacy of rapid saline infusion and dobutamine versus saline infusion alone in a model of cardiac rupture. despite recent reports describing survival after cardiac rupture, the effectiveness of circulatory support while awaiting definitive surgical treatment is controversial. to assess the efficacy of volume expansion and pharmacologic support in cardiac tamponade due to cardiac rupture, a model of hemorrhagic cardiac tamponade was developed and treatment with rapid saline infusion and dobutamine was compared with rapid saline infusion alone in 15 closed chest dogs. a right ventricular wound of reproducible size was produced by deflating an aortic valvuloplasty balloon that had previously been passed by way of the internal jugular vein into the pericardial space and through a stab wound in the right ventricular free wall. hemodynamic values were compared at baseline, during tamponade and after a rapid infusion (1 liter at 100 ml/min) of either saline solution alone or saline solution plus dobutamine (20 micrograms/kg per min). atrial and pericardial pressures increased significantly in both groups. mean arterial pressure, cardiac output and stroke volume increased with combined saline and dobutamine infusion to values similar to those at baseline (91 +/- 19%, 114 +/- 43% and 94 +/- 37% of baseline, respectively). in contrast, saline infusion alone caused a small increase in cardiac output but failed to significantly increase mean arterial pressure or stroke volume (76.8 +/- 14.2%, 55 +/- 18% and 51 +/- 17% of baseline, respectively). combined rapid infusion of saline solution and dobutamine infusion has a more beneficial hemodynamic effect and may be more effective than rapid saline infusion alone in resuscitating patients with hemorrhagic cardiac tamponade due to cardiac rupture.
haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy and sudden infant death in 2 pairs of non-identical twins, haemorrhagic-shock encephalopathy syndrome developed in 1 co-twin while the other died of sudden infant death syndrome. the twin pairs were aged 3 and 4 months, respectively, and no cause was identified. we suggest that stress protein deficiency may underlie both syndromes.
accidental poisoning with a superwarfarin compound (brodifacoum) in a child. the "superwarfarin" compounds are 4-hydroxy derivatives of coumarin that have increased activity and a longer duration of action than the parent compound. the superwarfarins are used widely in the united states as rodenticides and are effective against warfarin-resistant strains of rats. a chronic accidental ingestion of one of these products, brodifacoum, by a 7-year-old child who had bleeding and laboratory evidence suggestive of a vitamin k-related coagulopathy is reported. the bleeding manifestations were severe and prolonged, requiring 13 months for normalization of coagulation times. with a negative history of ingestion and despite clinical suspicion, documentation of superwarfarin poisoning was hampered by the lack of readily available assays for these compounds, even from the manufacturers. brodifacoum was also identified in rat feces from the family home. this finding raises the concern of poisoning not only from ingestion of brodifacoum particles themselves, but also from a fecal-oral route. a review of the literature is presented and the implications of this case for the practicing physician are discussed.
the management of retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas by vitreous surgery. we used vitreous surgery to treat seven patients (eight eyes) with complicated retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas. all eyes had large choroidal colobomas and no evidence of peripheral retinal breaks. small, atrophic breaks were detected in five of the eyes and were located in the base of the coloboma in four of the five eyes. adjunctive surgical techniques were necessary and included cyanoacrylate retinopexy in four eyes, silicone oil tamponade in five eyes, and retinectomy in two eyes. retinal reattachment was ultimately attained in seven of the eight eyes. the number of surgical procedures ranged from one to five, with an average of three. postoperative visual acuity of the eyes that underwent anatomically successful procedures ranged from 20/100 to light perception. proliferative vitreoretinopathy was the most frequent cause of redetachment, occurring in six of the eight eyes.
growth and spread of hepatocellular carcinoma. a review of 240 consecutive autopsy cases. all 240 consecutive cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) that underwent autopsy at the national cancer center hospital (tokyo, japan) between september 1962 and august 1986 were reviewed. among these cases, 162, for which photographs of cut surfaces of the primary tumors were available, were grossly classified using a combination of both eggel's classification and our own into three major types, i.e., nodular, massive, and diffuse as described by eggel (eggel h, beitr pathol anat 1901; 30:506-604), and three subgroups of nodular type, i.e., single nodular type (type 1), single nodular type with extranodular growth (type 2), and contiguous multinodular type (type 3) by our classification (kanai t et al., cancer 1987; 60:810-819). seventy-eight cases were classified as nodular type, comprising seven cases of type 1, 61 cases of type 2, and ten cases of type 3. sixty-seven and 17 cases were classified as massive and diffuse type, respectively. of the 78 nodular-type tumors, 59 measured less than 10 cm, whereas 64 of 67 massive-type tumors were 10 cm or more in size. the incidence of intrahepatic and extrahepatic tumor spread of hcc was significantly higher for tumors measuring more than 5 cm. as to the relationship between macroscopic type and tumor spread, the frequency of spread was lowest for type 1 tumors, and high for the other types. intrahepatic metastasis was detected in 28.6% of type 1, 93.4% of type 2, 100% of type 3, and 98.5% of massive-type tumors. lymph node metastasis was detected in 14.3% of type 1, 24.6% of type 2, 70% of type 3, 38.8% of massive-type and 52.9% of diffuse-type tumors. hematogenous extrahepatic metastasis was detected in 14.3% of type 1, 47.5% of type 2, 70% of type 3, 74.6% of massive-type and 82.4% of diffuse-type tumors. it appears that not only primary tumor size but also its macroscopic type has an important influence on the growth and spread of hcc.
estimation of reynolds stresses within the penn state left ventricular assist device. fluid velocities were measured using a two-component laser doppler anemometery (lda) system at 129 locations within a plexiglas model of a 70 cm3 penn state electric left ventricular assist device (lvad). the lvad was driven by a pulsatile piston pump acting on an attached segmented polyurethane diaphragm. bjork-shiley tilting disc valves were used to provide unidirectional flow through the inlet and outlet ports. a seeded blood analog fluid, which matched the kinematic viscosity of blood at high shear rates and the refractive index of plexiglas, was used to make the measurements. at each location, 250 instantaneous velocity realizations were collected at eight instances during the pump cycle. the maximum reynolds shear and normal stresses were calculated for each pump cycle time and location after filtering the data. the results reveal that the highest reynolds shear and normal stresses occur in the near wall region just proximal to the aortic valve during diastole, and reach values of 5,300 dynes/cm2 and 10,800 dynes/cm2, respectively. the elevated turbulent stresses are observed during the period of regurgitant flow through the aortic valve, with peak stress values arising during the period of peak regurgitant flow. this supports the hypothesis that a regurgitant turbulent jet is formed near the wall of the prosthetic aortic valve and may be contributing to blood damage.
a hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with cddp two-route chemotherapy--a case report. massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis. massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ii are reported.
insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia: role in hypertension, dyslipidemia, and coronary heart disease. resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and hyperinsulinemia may play a central role in the cause and clinical course of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, and coronary heart disease. this article summarizes the evidence in support of this general hypothesis.
protecting the vasculature: an eye toward the future. although calcium antagonists were originally developed for use in the management of patients with angina pectoris, they are now used in the management of other cardiovascular disorders, including hypertension. more recently, the calcium antagonists have been under investigation for their potential protective role in atherosclerosis. coupled with these new possibilities for therapeutic use are the development of new, long-acting, tissue-specific calcium antagonists. amlodipine belongs to this group, and although it is a dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist, its pharmacologic profile differs from that of other dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonists. differences include: different ph optimum for receptor binding, different rates of association and dissociation, and differences in allosteric interaction with the diltiazem and verapamil binding sites. amlodipine, when given orally to rabbits receiving a high-cholesterol diet, reduces atheroma formation. evidence of its ability to protect the vasculature is provided by its ability to significantly increase (p less than 0.001) survival in stroke-prone hypertensive rats.
arrhythmias in patients with chf. should they be treated? ventricular arrhythmias are a major cause of death in patients with congestive heart failure. dr ellenbogen and his associates discuss the current thinking, based on recent studies, concerning use of antiarrhythmic agents to prevent sudden cardiac death in these patients. as they point out, the proper antiarrhythmic therapy may be crucial to long-term survival.
consistent involvement of the bcr gene by 9;22 breakpoints in pediatric acute leukemias. to investigate the relationship of bcr-abl fusion mrnas with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemias (all), we examined 27 pediatric philadelphia chromosome (ph1)-positive acute leukemias using a reverse polymerase chain reaction (pcr) procedure. in cells from 24 leukemias, single bcr-abl pcr products were detected that corresponded to breakpoints in the minor breakpoint cluster region (mbcr in intron 1 of the bcr gene) associated with production of the p190 fusion protein. cells from the three remaining leukemias contained breakpoints in the major breakpoint cluster region (mbcr) as shown by pcr and southern blot analyses. these three leukemias also contained low levels of the mbcr pcr product that may have resulted from alternative splicing of the bcr-abl precursor rna. a screen of 35 additional leukemias from patients who failed therapy before day 180 (induction failures or early relapses) found one case with unsuccessful cytogenetics to express mbcr-abl rna. all four children with mbcr breakpoints had white blood cell levels in excess of 250,000 at presentation (compared with 2 of 24 with mbcr breakpoints) and two had hematologic and clinical features suggestive of chronic myelogenous leukemias (cml) in lymphoid blast crisis. our results indicate that in ph1-positive pediatric leukemias, all 9;22 breakpoints occur in one of the two known breakpoint cluster regions in the bcr gene on chromosome 22. the reverse pcr reliably detected all patients with cytogenetic t(9;22) and is capable of detecting additional ph1-positive leukemias that are missed by standard cytogenetics. furthermore, the mbcr-type breakpoint, associated with production of p210, can be seen in childhood leukemias presenting either as clinical all or as apparent lymphoid blast crisis of cml, suggesting that t(9;22) breakpoint locations do not exclusively determine the biologic and clinical features of pediatric ph1-positive all.
effect of antihypertensives on sexual function and quality of life: the taim study objective: to evaluate treatment of mild hypertension using combinations of diet and low-dose pharmacologic therapies. design: multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. setting: three university-based tertiary care centers. patients: patients (697) 21 to 65 years of age with diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 100 mm hg as well as weight between 110% and 160% of ideal weight. intervention: patients were stratified by clinical center and race and were randomly assigned to one of three diets (usual, low-sodium and high-potassium, weight loss) and one of three agents (placebo, chlorthalidone, and atenolol). measurements: changes in measures of sexual problems, distress, and well-being after 6 months of therapy were analyzed. main results: low-dose chlorthalidone and atenolol produced few side effects, except in men. erection-related problems worsened in 28% (95% ci, 15% to 41%) of men receiving chlorthalidone and usual diet compared with 3% (ci, 0% to 9%) of those receiving placebo and usual diet (p = 0.009) and 11% (ci, 2% to 20%) of those receiving atenolol and usual diet (p greater than 0.05). the weight loss diet ameliorated this effect. the low-sodium diet with placebo was associated with greater fatigue (34%; ci, 23% to 45%) than was either usual diet (18%; ci, 10% to 27%; p = 0.04) or weight reduction (15%; ci, 7% to 23%; p = 0.009). the low-sodium diet with chlorthalidone increased problems with sleep (32%; ci, 22% to 42%) compared with chlorthalidone and usual diet (16%; ci, 8% to 24%; p = 0.04). the weight loss diet benefited quality of life most, reducing total physical complaints (p less than 0.001) and increasing satisfaction with health (p less than 0.001). total physical complaints decreased in 57% to 76% of patients depending on drug and diet group, and were markedly decreased by weight loss. conclusion: in general, low-dose antihypertensive drug therapy (with chlorthalidone or atenolol) improves rather than impairs the quality of life; however, chlorthalidone with usual diet increases sexual problems in men.
colonic lipoma as a source of massive hemorrhage. report of a case. colonic lipomas are a rare source of massive lower gastrointestinal bleeding requiring operative intervention. a case of massive hemorrhage from cecal lipomatosis is presented. the methods of preoperative diagnosis and treatment are discussed.
surgical results of intrathoracic gastric volvulus complicating hiatal hernia. from 1981 to 1988, 138 patients with hiatal hernia were treated surgically at our centre. twenty-one (mean age 76.6 years, 17 women, four men) had an associated intrathoracic gastric volvulus. eleven patients (mean age 73.2 years), of whom eight were asymptomatic, had an elective procedure. ten patients (mean age 80.3 years) had emergency surgery, six for acute complications of the volvulus (five cases of strangulation and one of perforated ulcer) and four because of other, unrelated causes of acute abdomen. there were four deaths after operation, all in the emergency surgery group. four other patients had significant morbidity, all in the emergency group. in the elective cases, all hernias were easily reduced. in one emergency case a gastrotomy was necessary for decompression, and in another gastrectomy was necessary because of gastric gangrene. our results indicate the need for elective intervention when intrathoracic gastric volvulus is first diagnosed.
roles of beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptors in the mechanism of halothane myocardial sensitization in dogs. the authors investigated the comparative roles of beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptors in myocardial sensitization by halothane in dogs. the arrhythmogenic dose (ad) of isoproterenol was determined in the presence of various doses of phenylephrine during halothane anesthesia in dogs, and the influences of 1-metoprolol (beta 1-antagonist) and ici-118,551 (beta 2-antagonist) on the ad were examined. in the presence of 1-metoprolol, the ad of isoproterenol was significantly greater than the control, but in the presence of ici-118,551, the ad of isoproterenol was lower. blood pressure during the arrhythmias was higher in the presence of ici-118,551 than that in controls. in addition, the ad of ritodrine (beta 2-agonist) was also determined at various doses of phenylephrine. the interaction between phenylephrine and ritodrine in inducing arrhythmias showed hyperbolic isoboles. however, 1-metoprolol completely inhibited the occurrence of arrhythmias induced by ritodrine and phenylephrine. the results suggest that myocardial beta 1-adrenoceptors play an essential role in the genesis of arrhythmias during halothane anesthesia in dogs, whereas beta 2-adrenoceptors do not.
the role of a critical care unit in an epidemic. the role of a critical care unit in life-threatening situations is well established. the management of 52 children with acute gastroenteritis and 22 children with acute paralytic poliomyelitis as part of recent epidemics is described. the solutions to the problems in the critical care management of these 74 victims (out of a total of 6197 patients admitted during the epidemics) are discussed.
strokes in asians and pacific-islanders, hispanics, and native americans. stroke in asian and pacific-islander populations remains the principal cause of death among adults, but its incidence in the united states approximates that of caucasians. although controversial, uncontrolled hypertension in certain population groups (e.g., northern japanese) and high dietary saturated fat in others (e.g, pacific-islanders) are believed to be responsible for the high stroke incidence rates. the recent reduction in stroke frequency rates in these areas is thought to be the result of better hypertension control. in the ni-hon-san study, the level of hypertension and its frequency were similar in hawaii and japan, but ischemic infarction and intracerebral hemorrhage were less frequent in hawaii. reduced meat and fat intake may contribute to small vessel disease in japan. stroke is the third major cause of death among hispanic-americans and native americans, yet there is a paucity of information, especially about stroke, in subgroups of these populations. there is also considerable ignorance and controversy about risk factors for stroke in these populations. the need for additional research is urgent.
sinistral (left-sided) portal hypertension. between 1953 and 1988, 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis (svt), 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension (sph) were treated at our institution. svt was identified at autopsy in nine patients. twelve additional patients presented with sph: bleeding esophageal varices, svt and normal hepatic function. svt was caused by pancreatic neoplasm (5), chronic pancreatitis (5), and pancreatic pseudocyst (2). svt was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography, splenoportography, computerized tomography, and ultrasonography. gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy (10) and barium swallow (2). splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients. three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy. two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization, one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy. one splenectomized patient continued to bleed. no further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years. sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function. splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis. splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice.
sequential connection of flaps: a logical approach to customized mandibular reconstruction. microsurgery has improved the success rate for reconstruction of composite defects in the head and neck. restoration of mandibular continuity alone is not adequate for reconstruction. replacement of the oral lining with thin tissue is necessary to improve tongue mobility and to set the stage for later dental restoration. there is currently no ideal osteocutaneous free flap that provides unlimited length of bone, can undergo multiple osteotomies to produce the proper curve to the reconstructed mandible, and provides thin skin for oral lining. combining free flaps can take advantage of the strengths of the individual donor sites and eliminate some of the problems with current osteocutaneous flaps. in six patients, a fibular osseous free flap was combined with either a radial forearm flap or a lateral arm flap to provide bone and oral lining in reconstruction of mandibular composite defects. in these selected patients, the fibula provided the blood supply for the second free flap, which was placed sequentially. the distal peroneal vessels were used to anastomose to the radial forearm vessels or the lateral arm pedicle. this approach allows the surgeon to customize the defect by improving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of reconstruction and is of use in cases where vascular access is limited, such as following head and neck surgery and radiation.
topographic classification, clinical characteristics, and diagnostic delay of cancer of the larynx/hypopharynx in torino, italy. the case series of a population-based case-control study of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancers in torino, italy, included 281 men with clinical and anamnestic data. two hundred fifteen, 28, and 38 cancers originated from the endolarynx, epilarynx, and hypopharynx, respectively. regions invaded by the tumor were divided into 26 subsites. a classification based on the number of invaded subsites was proposed, which agreed well with the t classification of the tnm system. cancers originating from the hypopharynx invaded more subsites than cancers from the endolarynx, and among the latter, supraglottic were more invasive than glottic lesions. the number of invaded subsites was strongly associated with nodal involvement. among symptoms at onset of disease and at diagnosis, patients with endolaryngeal lesions reported dysphonia and dyspnea more frequently, and patients with lesions from other regions had a higher prevalence of dysphagia, odynophagia, otalgia, and adenopathia. clinical and epidemiologic results of this study suggest considering the endolarynx, epilarynx, and hypopharynx as separate anatomic entities. diagnostic delay was not associated with tumor size and showed a negative trend with involvement of cervical lymph nodes, suggesting that stage at diagnosis is due to intrinsic differences in tumor aggressiveness.
zollinger-ellison syndrome. relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion. since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer, infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease. we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer, it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another, specific etiology, such as zollinger-ellison syndrome. gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome (17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis. all subjects, who were matched for age and sex, had undergone elective gastric resections. gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis. the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome (8/18) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer (16/18; p less than 0.02). moreover, chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer (p less than 0.01). in zollinger-ellison syndrome, peak acid output was lower in patients positive (median 22 meq/30 min) compared to those negative for h. pylori (median 32 meq/30 min; p less than 0.02) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori (p less than 0.05). h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology, such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome. h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion.
an early description of slowly progressive aphasia. slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia has become an important issue of present-day neuropsychological research. historically, credit for the first description is usually given to pick. another german-speaking author who has published a vivid description of a pertinent cases is pick's contemporary, max rosenfeld. this author has also observed a patient with slowly progressive spatial disorientation and visual recognition deficit, and he has discussed these patients in a remarkably modern way in the context of partial atrophy of the brain.
differences in glycolytic capacity and hypoxia tolerance between hepatoma cells and hepatocytes. viability, glycolytic capacity and energy metabolism under anaerobic conditions were studied in the hepatoma cell lines htc, fu5 and hepg2 and in rat and human hepatocytes using glucose and fructose as glycolytic precursors. during 6 hr of anaerobic incubation without additional substrate, viability decreased rapidly in fu5 and htc cells, whereas viability of hepg2 cells was not significantly affected. in all tumor cells, 10 mmol/l glucose prevented hypoxic cell injury almost completely. lactate formation from glucose was about five times higher than in hepatocytes under these circumstances. atp content of the tumor cells remained almost constant under anaerobic conditions in the presence of glucose. ten millimoles per liter of fructose diminished glycolysis in the hepatoma cells compared with glucose, ranging from 87% reduction in htc cells to 43% reduction in hepg2 cells. accordingly, atp content decreased rapidly in the fu5 and slowly in the hepg2 cells. viability was strongly diminished in the htc and fu5 cells in the presence of fructose, whereas in the hepg2 cells no effect of fructose on viability was detectable. in contrast to the hepatoma cells, rat and human hepatocytes exhibited higher rates of anaerobic glycolysis in the presence of fructose and thus were able to maintain their viability under these conditions. these differences in glycolytic capacity, energy metabolism and hypoxia tolerance of hepatoma cells compared with hepatocytes may be used for the treatment of liver cancer by isolated liver perfusion and ex situ revision of the organ.
deficiency of complex iii of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in a patient with facioscapulohumeral disease. facioscapulohumeral disease (fshd), an inherited neuromuscular disorder, is characterized by progressive wasting of specific muscle groups, particularly the proximal musculature of the upper limbs; the primary defect in this disorder is unknown. we studied a patient with fshd to determine whether the mitochondrial respiratory chain was functionally abnormal. muscle biopsy revealed fiber atrophy with patchy staining for oxidative enzymes. electron microscopy of a liver section showed many enlarged mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions. decreased oxidation of the respiratory substrates-alanine and succinate-in skin fibroblasts suggested a deficiency of complex iii of the electron-transport chain; cytochrome c oxidase activity (complex iv) was in the normal range. biochemical analysis of liver supported the fibroblast data, since succinate oxidase activity (electron-transport activity through complexes ii-iv) was reduced, whereas complex iv activity was normal. furthermore, analysis of the cytochrome spectrum in liver revealed typical peaks for cytochromes cc1 and aa3, whereas cytochrome b (a component of complex iii) was undetectable. southern blot analysis of fibroblast mtdna revealed no major deletions or rearrangements. our study provides the first documentation of a specific enzyme-complex deficiency associated with fshd.
use and misuse of oral therapy for diarrhea: comparison of us practices with american academy of pediatrics recommendations. to determine how closely us pediatricians follow the 1985 american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition's recommendations on oral therapy for acute diarrhea, a questionnaire was administered to four groups: new england private practitioners, pediatricians from 27 states attending a postgraduate course, representatives of departments of pediatrics at us schools of medicine, and housestaff at boston children's and massachusetts general hospitals. the responses from departments of pediatrics and housestaff were not significantly different from those of community practitioners in most categories. the reported rate of use of glucose-electrolyte solutions recommended by the american academy of pediatrics was not different from the use of nonphysiologic, high-osmolar, low-salt solutions such as sodas and juices. the usage rate for glucose-electrolyte solutions meeting the american academy of pediatrics-recommended carbohydrate-to-sodium ratio of less than 2:1 was less than 30%. other findings included the general lack of agreement on the use of a single type of therapy and the common use of oral therapy only for mild or no dehydration. although the american academy of pediatrics recommends that feeding be reintroduced in the first 24 hours of a diarrheal episode, the majority of respondents withhold feeding until the second day or later. these findings indicate that educational programs on oral therapy during acute diarrhea are needed in the united states.
imaging of adult central nervous system primary malignant gliomas. staging and follow-up. a classification and staging system for primary adult gliomas was proposed. this system uses the high signal intensity found on proton density or t2-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) scans at the site of the tumor and surrounding edema (including infiltrating tumor).
hyposensitivity to vasopressin in patients with hepatitis b-related cirrhosis during acute variceal hemorrhage. it has been suggested that vasopressin given during hemorrhage may be less effective than when given during a stable state in a portal-hypertensive rat model. this study was designed to evaluate the hemodynamic response to vasopressin infusion in 25 hbsag-positive cirrhotic patients. nine patients had active variceal hemorrhage before vasopressin infusion, and the other 16 patients were in a stable condition at the time of infusion. the two groups of patients were similar in baseline values except that a higher heart rate was found in patients with hemorrhage (96 +/- 20 vs. 73 +/- 10 beats/min, mean +/- s.d., p less than 0.01). thirty minutes after vasopressin infusion (0.66 units/min), hepatic venous pressure gradient significantly decreased in both bleeding and stable patients (from 21 +/- 9 to 18 +/- 9 mm hg, p less than 0.05; and from 18 +/- 4 to 8 +/- 3 mm hg, p less than 0.0001, respectively). however, the decrease of hepatic venous pressure gradient was less obvious in bleeding patients as compared with stable patients (4 +/- 3 vs. 9 +/- 2 mm hg, p less than 0.0001). a significant reduction of hepatic venous pressure gradient after vasopressin infusion was found in five bleeding patients without shock (from a median of 16 mm hg [range = 12 to 26] to 11 mm hg [range = 6 to 18], p less than 0.05), but not in four bleeding patients with shock (from 28 [range = 15 to 36] to 25 [range = 18 to 33] mm hg, p greater than 0.05).
toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy. a pediatric oncology group study. experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (hdac) in pediatric solid tumors is limited. sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot pediatric oncology group (pog) study that required the administration of hdac at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses. there were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma, two cases of fibrosarcoma, four cases of neuroblastoma, and one case each of germ cell tumor, wilm's tumor, retinoblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, ewing's sarcoma, and burkitt's lymphoma. all eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy. thirteen patients received one course of hdac and three patients received two courses of hdac. due to prior treatments, patients had less than normal marrow reserves. short-term toxicity included nausea, vomiting, suppression of hemopoiesis, drug fever, and increased blood urea nitrogen (bun), creatinine, and liver enzymes. all evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities. there were no drug-related deaths. none of the patients had neurologic problems, including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull. with the above schedule, hdac appears to have manageable toxicity.
an early phase ii study of cpt-11: a new derivative of camptothecin, for the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma. an early phase ii study of a new camptothecin analog and an inhibitor of topoisomerase i, cpt-11, was conducted in 62 patients with refractory leukemia and lymphoma by four different treatment schedules in a multiinstitutional cooperative study. cpt-11 therapy resulted in four complete remissions (crs) and three partial remissions (prs) in 29 assessable non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) patients, one pr in three hodgkin's disease (hd), one cr and one pr in 11 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all), and one pr in 15 acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) patients. single infusion of 200 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks produced no response in both leukemia and lymphoma patients. sixty-minute infusions of 40 mg/m2/d for 5 days every 3 to 4 weeks or for 3 days weekly produced four crs (17%) and four prs (17%) in 24 patients with malignant lymphoma. sixty-minute infusions of 20 mg/m2 twice a day for 7 days every 3 to 4 weeks resulted in one cr and two prs in 12 patients with acute leukemia. no response was seen in an acute leukemia patient by another treatment schedule. cpt-11 was effective in two (15%) of 13 primarily refractory leukemia and lymphoma cases, in two of four relapsed cases, and in seven (17%) of 41 relapsed and refractory cases. major side effects were leukopenia (91%) and gastrointestinal (gi) (76%). cpt-11 was shown to be effective against refractory leukemia and lymphoma, and thus deserves further clinical study; the novel antitumor activity mode of this drug predicts no cross-resistance to presently available antitumor drugs.
effects of occupied and unoccupied bed making on myocardial work in healthy subjects. strict bed rest prescribed after acute myocardial infarction provides rest for the heart in an effort to lessen myocardial work. however, bed rest has been implicated as a threat to physical and psychosocial well-being. nurses must question whether activities associated with bed rest, such as bed making by hospital personnel while the patient is occupying the bed, actually require less myocardial work than out-of-bed activities. in this study we examined cardiovascular function of 22 healthy individuals, 10 (45.5%) men and 12 (54.5%) women ranging in age from 34 to 69 years (mean 48 years), during occupied (side to side method) and unoccupied (patient up to chair) bed making. cardiac output, heart rate, stroke volume, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, mean arterial pressure, total peripheral resistance, and the ratio of preejection period to left ventricular ejection time were measured by using an impedance cardiograph and vital signs monitor. although differences between these measurements during the two bed making procedures were statistically significant (p less than 0.001), they were not deemed clinically significant for healthy subjects because they represent transient reflexive responses to posturally induced changes in venous return rather than substantial increases in myocardial work. when the goal is minimal myocardial energy expenditure, making the bed when it is unoccupied may offer a sound alternative to making an occupied bed.
a family study of gilles de la tourette syndrome. previous studies have demonstrated that gilles de la tourette syndrome (ts) is a familial disorder and that chronic tics (ct) and obsessive compulsive disorder (ocd) appear to be etiologically related to the syndrome. in the present study we report the results from a study of 338 biological relatives of 86 ts probands, 21 biologically unrelated relatives of adopted ts probands, and 22 relatives of normal subjects. the 43 first-degree relatives of the adopted ts and normal probands constituted a control sample. the rates of ts, ct, and ocd in the total sample of biological relatives of ts probands were significantly greater than in the relatives of controls. in addition, the morbid risks of ts, ocd, and ct were not significantly different in families of probands with ocd when compared to relatives of probands without ocd. these findings provide further evidence that ocd is etiologically related to ts.
one-stage repair of colovaginal fistula complicating acute diverticulitis. fourteen patients with colovaginal fistula secondary to sigmoid diverticulitis were seen between 1964 and 1988. thirteen had undergone prior hysterectomy. three different operative approaches were used. three patients were treated with colostomy alone; one died and the fistula persisted in one. five patients underwent staged procedures. one patient died of complications after the second stage of a planned three-stage procedure. four patients underwent a two-stage procedure (fistula takedown, colectomy with colostomy and colostomy closure), all with good results. six patients were treated with one-stage fistula takedown, colectomy and primary anastomosis, without major complication. we advocate this as the procedure of choice and emphasize the following principles of epidemiology and management: 1) colovaginal fistula complicates diverticulitis in elderly women usually following hysterectomy; this association may be a factor in etiology; 2) vaginography is useful in diagnosis; and 3) planned one-stage repair is the best surgical approach.
role of prostanoids in renin-dependent and renin-independent hypertension. we investigated the role of prostanoid-mediated pressor mechanisms in setting the level of blood pressure in renin-dependent and renin-independent models of hypertension in unanesthetized rats. intravenous administration of a blocker of thromboxane a2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptors, sq29548 (2 mg/kg bolus injection plus 2 mg/kg/hr for 3 hours), reduced from 162 +/- 4 to 144 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.05) the blood pressure of rats with aortic coarctation-induced hypertension at 7-14 days after coarctation when plasma renin activity is greatly increased. in contrast, treatment with sq29548 was without effect on the blood pressure of either normotensive or hypertensive rats (i.e., aortic coarctation-induced hypertension at 90-113 days after coarctation, deoxycorticosterone-salt-induced hypertension) having normal or depressed values of plasma renin activity. the blood pressure-lowering effect of sq29548 in the early phase of aortic coarctation-induced hypertension was positively correlated with the prevailing plasma renin activity and could not be demonstrated in hypertensive rats pretreated with indomethacin. we attribute the hypotensive effect of sq29548 to interference with pressor mechanisms that depend on activation of thromboxane a2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptors and suggest that such prostanoid-mediated mechanisms are operational and contribute to an increase in blood pressure in angiotensin-dependent forms of hypertension. also prostanoid-mediated vasodepressor mechanisms are operational in the early phase of aortic coarctation-induced hypertension since the blood pressure of rats pretreated with sq29548 was increased by the subsequent administration of indomethacin. accordingly, the blood pressure of rats with aortic coarctation-induced hypertension is influenced by the interplay of prostanoid-mediated pressor and vasodepressor mechanisms.
pathologic features of sharp curettings in complete hydatidiform mole. predictors of persistent gestational trophoblastic disease. the medical records and pathologic specimens were reviewed from 33 patients with complete molar pregnancy at brigham and women's hospital between 1980 and 1989. two pathologists (d.r.g. and r.w.r.) reviewed all slides from the original sharp curettage to identify pathologic features that may be associated with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor (gtt). the pathologic features evaluated were implantation site, presence of myometrium, presence of villi, presence and degree of atypia in cytotrophoblast, syncytiotrophoblast and intermediate trophoblast, presence of fibrinoid, presence of implantation site inflammatory cells, volume of tissue and area of trophoblastic tissue. only one pathologic feature, fibrinoid deposits, identified in sharp curettings was associated with the development of persistent gtt. while 12 (48%) of 25 patients who attained remission without chemotherapy had fibrinoid deposits, only 1 (12.5%) of 8 patients who developed persistent gtt had them (p less than .10).
mechanisms controlling growth of hepatocytes in primary culture. mature hepatocytes in primary culture express most of the functions and hormonal responsiveness seen in normal liver studied in vivo. the growth of hepatocytes in culture is regulated by various growth factors. we have identified a hepatocyte growth factor that is isolated from rat platelets. we found that rat platelets also contain a growth inhibitor, transforming growth factor-beta which is secreted as a latent molecule. its latency is due to its binding with a masking protein. growth of hepatocytes is also suppressed by interleukin-1 (il-1) and il-6. moreover, the growth and functions of liver cells in culture are regulated reciprocally by cell density: at higher cell density liver-specific functions are expressed and growth is suppressed, whereas the opposite situation is observed at lower cell density. in contrast, neonatal hepatocytes in culture grow autonomously without a requirement for added hormones. this autonomous growth is due to an autocrine mechanism in which the cells secrete one or more growth factors into the culture medium. however, this autonomous growth ceases one week after birth at a time when the cells begin to express differentiated characteristics. based upon these data, the mechanisms of liver regeneration, differentiation, and hepatocarcinogenesis are discussed.
thrombotic vasculopathy associated with cryofibrinogenemia. cryofibrinogenemia refers to the presence of cold-precipitable plasma proteins associated with a variety of disorders, including malignancies, inflammatory processes, and thrombohemorrhagic phenomena. few cases of essential or primary cryofibrinogenemia are reported. we report a case in a 48-year-old man of essential cryofibrinogenemia and hemorrhagic necrosis of the ears and of the upper and lower extremities. histopathologic studies demonstrated extensive eosinophilic thrombi in the dermal vasculature, with minimal inflammation and no vasculitis. cryofibrinogenemia should be considered in the investigation of patients with otherwise unexplained cold intolerance and dermal thrombosis associated with minimal or no inflammation.
new isotopic technique for detecting prosthetic arterial graft infection: 99mtc-hexametazime-labelled leucocyte imaging. early and accurate detection of prosthetic arterial graft infection is important because this serious complication of vascular surgery carries high morbidity and mortality rates. this report describes the use of a new method of isotopic imaging to detect graft infection using 99mtc-hexametazime-labelled leucocytes. seventeen patients with potentially infected arterial grafts were imaged in addition to routine investigations but were managed according to our normal surgical practice. 99mtc-imaging was positive in eight patients with proven graft infection and falsely positive in one patient with a groin haematoma (89 per cent specificity). there were no false negatives (100 per cent sensitivity) after an average follow-up of 6 months (range 3-9 months). this technique has proved a reliable and rapid method of confirming graft infection.
small bowel phytobezoar mimicking presentation of crohn's disease. a case of small bowel phytobezoar formed from unusual ingested vegetation is described. the patient presented with recurrent subacute obstruction and a right iliac fossa mass mimicking the presentation of crohn's disease. none of the usual gastrointestinal disorders that predispose to bezoar formation were present. the phytobezoar passed spontaneously following small bowel enema and colonoscopy. it is possible that relaxation of the gut secondary to the antispasmodics administered at investigation or the physical disturbance during these procedures enabled migration through the ileocecal valve. antispasmodics may be of use in the conservative management of bezoars obstructing otherwise normal bowel.
the prolonged burner syndrome. over the course of a single football season, six players evaluated by the medical staff had burners that displayed a prolonged neurologic recovery. these players were examined and subsequently evaluated with isokinetic testing and electrodiagnostic studies to elucidate better the short-term natural history of the prolonged burner syndrome. evidence of muscular weakness at 72 hours postinjury best correlated with positive electrodiagnostic findings. no correlation was found between the initial physical examination findings and the results of electrodiagnostic testing. isokinetic strength evaluation demonstrated many relative strength differences that were difficult to discern with manual muscle testing. the return of a player to athletic competition following this injury should largely be based on the clinical examination.
a limited diagnostic investigation for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. oximetry and static charge sensitive bed. a simplified sleep apnea investigation consisting of combined oximetry and respiration movement monitoring was compared with conventional polysomnography. these two types of recordings were performed simultaneously during one night in 77 patients with suspected obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas). a static charge sensitive bed (scsb) was used in the simplified recording because it provides a comfortable and reliable means of recording respiration movements. periods of obstructive apneas gave a diamond-shaped periodic respiration movement pattern in the scsb, usually accompanied by repetitive oxygen desaturations. the average number of desaturations greater than or equal to 4 percent per sleeping hour was termed the oxygen desaturation index (odi) and compared with the apnea index (ai). in the whole population they were well correlated (p less than 0.0001, r2 = 0.41), but in individual cases there were considerable discrepancies. patients with periodic respiration movements less than 18 percent of total sleeping time and odi less than 2 never had ai greater than or equal to 5, whereas patients with periodic respiration greater than 45 percent and odi greater than 6 always had ai greater than or equal to 5. fifty-one of the 77 patients fulfilled these criteria. a bradycardia response to apneas was absent in 29 percent of patients with ai greater than or equal to 5. a combination of respiration movement and oximetry recording thus seems to give sufficient information to confirm or negate a diagnosis of osas in a majority of patients with clinical symptoms. in borderline patients, further investigations should be performed.
adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump. we have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump. because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs, symptoms, or radiologic features, preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult, and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities.
hospital setting and fetal death during labor among women at low risk. intrapartum fetal death in low-risk women at term is a rare obstetric outcome. this is difficult to study because few data sets contain an adequate number of cases for meaningful analysis. this study used data from the 1980 national natality survey and national fetal mortality survey, merged with an american hospital association annual survey for the same year, to determine whether the frequency of intrapartum fetal death in low-risk women varied by the hospital setting for birth. stratified analysis was used to assess the relation of level of hospital for delivery with intrapartum fetal death, with control for potential confounding factors. as the level of available perinatal technology decreased, the frequency of intrapartum fetal death increased (odds ratio, 2.0 for level ii and 3.3 for level i, as compared with level iii hospitals). even when early neonatal deaths were considered, perinatal mortality remained lowest at level iii facilities (odds ratio, 1.6 for level ii and 2.7 for level i, as compared with level iii hospitals). the components of intrapartum surveillance that are most effective in the reduction of perinatal mortality have not been identified.
tightening the screw: statutory and legal supervision of interhospital patient transfers. a federal statute governing the transfer of indigent patients from medicare-enrolled hospitals was first enacted in 1986. review of the statutory and other legal controls over interhospital transfers is precipitated by its recent amendment and the fining of a texas physician for transferring a high-risk obstetric patient without following the statutory guidelines. these events are part of a pattern of increasing regulation of the practice of medicine. physicians and hospital administrators responsible for hospital transfer policies should be aware of regulatory developments. hospitals contemplating transfer of patients must develop transfer policies that comply with governing law, including state law. a transfer policy should provide guidelines as to when a patient is "stable for transfer". patients may not be transferred unless a physician can certify that delay attendant to transfer will not be detrimental. furthermore, the policy should specify the procedures to be followed to effect a transfer and any documentation that the physician will have to complete.
cerebral air embolism treated by pressure and hyperbaric oxygen. we used pressure and hyperbaric oxygen to treat 2 patients with cerebral air embolism, occurring as the result of invasive medical procedures, and neither suffered any permanent damage detectable by clinical examination and mri. this outcome contrasts with reports of infarct and disability among untreated victims of air embolism.
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis. a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis, ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis.
deletion of the human retinoblastoma gene in primary leukemias. as an initial step in evaluating the role of tumor suppressor genes in leukemogenesis, we surveyed primary leukemia cells from 130 patients for possible deletion of the retinoblastoma susceptibility (rb) gene by southern blot analysis. two of them clearly showed homozygous deletion of rb alleles. the first patient was a pre-b acute lymphoid leukemia (all) associated with a cytogenetic translocation: t(14;16)(q24;q22). the deletion was located at the 3' portion of the rb gene, very close to the site of rb gene deletion recently identified in an all cell line. the absence of rb110 protein was further confirmed by western blot analysis. the second patient was a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (cmmol), terminated in acute blastic transformation. deletion of the 5' portion of rb gene was found in leukemic cells in the chronic stage. the results indicated that inactivation of the rb gene occurred in certain cases of leukemia. its significance warrants further study.
tracheotomy in the first year of life. much has been written concerning complications of pediatric tracheotomies, but few studies have reviewed the complication rates of tracheotomies performed in the first 12 months of life. we reviewed the records of 60 patients who underwent tracheotomy in the first year of life between 1976 and 1988. this study includes 30 full-term infants and 30 premature infants, 16 of whom were very low birth weight preterm infants (less than or equal to 32 weeks' gestation and less than 1,500 g birth weight). overall complication rates were 3% intraoperative, 13% early postoperative, and 38% late postoperative. the early postoperative complication rate in preterm infants was nearly double that of full-term infants. the late postoperative complication rate of patients undergoing tracheotomy for airway obstruction was more than double that of patients requiring tracheotomy for pulmonary indications. duration of tracheotomy, however, was felt to be the most important factor in the development of a late postoperative complication.
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking: correlates and consequences. recognition that the physical, psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly. we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker (h+) in a population-based (n = 1,155, mean age = 73.7 years) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders; 10.4% of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives. h+ men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers (h-) or never drinkers (n). mortality was higher among h+ men who were current drinkers than among h- or n men. h+ men reported more major illnesses, poorer self-perceived health status, more physician visits, more depressive symptoms, lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h- or n men. self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h+ men, who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination. thus, a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical, psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men.
clinical evaluation of plasma abnormal prothrombin (des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin) in hepatobiliary malignancies and other diseases. des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (dcp), a protein induced by vitamin k absence or antagonist-ii (pivka-ii) was measured in the plasma of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and those with various other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases. dcp levels were determined by enzyme immunoassay (e-1023), using an anti-dcp monoclonal antibody. forty-two of the 91 patients (46.2%) with hepatocellular carcinoma had abnormally elevated levels of dcp, whereas only one of the 24 patients with hepatic cirrhosis showed a slight increase. an increase was also observed in some patients with obstructive jaundice. there was no correlation between plasma levels of dcp and those of serum alpha-fetoprotein (afp). in most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, plasma dcp levels normalized after curative surgical resection. plasma dcp levels were not related to the plasma concentration of vitamin k in the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. plasma dcp determination may be useful in the diagnosis and postoperative monitoring of the response of hepatocellular carcinoma.
human catechol-o-methyltransferase: cloning and expression of the membrane-associated form. a cdna clone for human catechol-o-methyltransferase (hcomt; s-adenosyl-l-methionine:catechol o-methyltransferase; ec 2.1.1.6) was isolated from a human hepatoma cell line (hep g2) cdna library by hybridization screening with a porcine cdna probe. the cdna clone was sequenced and found to have an insert of 1226 nucleotides. the deduced primary structure of hcomt is composed of 271 amino acid residues with the predicted molecular mass of 30 kda. at its n terminus it has a hydrophobic segment of 21 amino acid residues that may be responsible for insertion of hcomt into the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. the primary structure of hcomt exhibits high homology to the porcine partial cdna sequence (93%). the deduced amino acid sequence contains two tryptic peptide sequences (t-22, t-33) found in porcine liver catechol-o-methyltransferase (comt). the coding region of hcomt cdna was placed under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter to transfect human kidney 293 cells. the endogenous comt activity, which was approximately 9.98 units per mg of protein in the untransfected cells, increased to 206 units per mg of protein upon transfection with a plasmid containing the comt cdna. the comt activity of recombinant protein was inhibited competitively (ic50 = 700 nm) by the selective comt inhibitor ro 40-7592. an anti-comt monoclonal antibody recognized, on immunoblots, a major polypeptide with apparent molecular mass of 29 kda, in reasonable agreement with the predicted molecular mass. the recombinant hcomt was shown by immunoblot analysis to be mainly associated with the membrane fraction. rna blot analysis revealed one comt mrna transcript of 1.4 kilobases in hep g2 poly(a)+ rna.
rarity of preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy in chronic alcoholics less than 40 years of age. preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy, myocardial damage in the absence of overt congestive heart failure in chronic alcoholics, is well characterized at necropsy, but attempts to identify such a clinical entity before death have produced conflicting results. studying subjects only at rest, the inclusion of older alcoholics and limitations of noninvasive techniques may explain some of the disagreement. to determine if preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy could be identified independent of the aforementioned limitations, 25 asymptomatic chronic alcoholics aged less than 40 years (mean 34), each of whom had consumed a minimum of 1 pint of whiskey or one 6-pack of beer greater than or equal to 5 days per week for greater than or equal to 5 years, underwent radionuclide ventriculography for measurements of systolic and diastolic function at rest, peak supine exercise and during recovery, and echocardiography for assessment of chamber size, wall thickness and left ventricular mass. red blood cell levels of selenium and thiamine were measured to determine whether abnormalities were present in these 2 potential mediators of alcoholic cardiomyopathy. for comparison, an age-matched group of healthy control subjects was also studied. for alcoholics and control subjects at rest, mean ejection fraction (67 +/- 7% vs 71 +/- 6%) and diastolic peak filling rate (3.4 +/- 0.6 vs 3.3 +/- 0.6 end-diastolic volumes per second [edv/s]) were similar.
assessment of ventricular function with an ambulatory left ventricular function monitor. changes in ventricular function caused by activities of daily living, including standing, walking, stair climbing, and mental stress, were evaluated using a radionuclide device that recorded left ventricular function on a beat-by-beat basis. the ambulatory monitor was positioned over the patient's left ventricle after a gated blood pool scan. monitoring revealed a 10% increase of left ventricular ejection fraction from baseline to brisk walking, an 18% increase during stair climbing, and a 6% increase with mental stress. in some subjects, however, the increase in ejection fraction during mental stress exceeded that during exercise.
recurrence of crohn's disease after resection. recurrent crohn's disease develops in most patients after surgical resection if the patient is followed for sufficient time. this review examines various aspects of recurrent crohn's disease. it is concluded that crohn's disease is a diffuse condition of the gastrointestinal tract and that radical resection of crohn's disease does not prevent recurrence. assorted factors thought to be associated with recurrence are examined and the relevance of these factors to the surgeon treating crohn's disease is discussed.
identification of herpes simplex virus dna in lesions of erythema multiforme by the polymerase chain reaction. an association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus infection has been supported by clinical studies and by the detection by immunofluorescence of herpes viral antigen in sera and skin biopsy specimens of patients with erythema multiforme. in rare cases, the virus has also been isolated in cultures of skin biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme. to investigate further the association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus, we used the polymerase chain reaction for herpes simplex virus to examine skin lesions from patients with erythema multiforme. in this study herpes simplex virus dna was detected in 11 of 31 biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme; six additional cases showed equivocal amplification results, which is suggestive of low amounts of viral dna. seven skin and mucosal biopsy specimens with the histologic changes of herpes virus infection served as positive controls: all were positive for herpes simplex virus dna. viral dna was not detected in control biopsy specimens from skin excised for unrelated conditions. these studies support the association of herpes simplex virus in the pathogenesis of some cases of erythema multiforme. the polymerase chain reaction provides a quick and effective method of detecting herpes simplex virus in lesions of herpes-associated erythema multiforme. furthermore, the polymerase chain reaction may delineate those cases of erythema multiforme that are etiologically related to herpes virus infection and therefore might be treated with acyclovir to prevent recurrence.
separation and characterization of saponins with adjuvant activity from quillaja saponaria molina cortex. saponins were purified from quillaja saponaria molina bark by silica and reverse phase chromatography. the resulting purified saponins were tested for adjuvant activity in mice. several distinct saponins, designated qs-7, qs-17, qs-18, and qs-21, were demonstrated to boost antibody levels by 100-fold or more when used in mouse immunizations with the ag bsa and beef liver cytochrome b5. these purified saponins increased titers in all major igg subclasses. to determine optimal dose in mice for adjuvant response, qs-7 and qs-21 were tested in a dose-response study in intradermal immunization with bsa in mice; for both of these purified saponins, adjuvant response (determined by stimulation of elisa titers to bsa) neared maximum at doses of 5 micrograms and was shown to plateau up to the highest dose tested, 80 micrograms. these purified saponins vary considerably in their toxicity, as assessed by lethality in mice; the main component, qs-18, being the most toxic. saponins qs-7 and qs-21 showed no or very low toxicity in mice, respectively. none of these saponins stimulated production of reaginic antibodies. the monosaccharide composition of these saponins showed similar but distinct compositions with all four containing fucose, xylose, galactose and glucuronic acid. predominant differences were observed in the quantities of rhamnose, arabinose, and glucose. monomer m.w. (determined by size exclusion hplc) were determined to range from 1800 to 2200.
surgical therapy of the eyelids in patients with facial paralysis. patients with facial paralysis have a degree of lagophthalmos and paralytic ectropion. we present our experience in the surgical management of 25 consecutive patients treated for these problems. paralytic lagophthalmos was corrected using gold weights inserted into the upper eyelid. the advantages and disadvantages of this surgical technique are reviewed. medial canthoplasty and lateral canthoplasty were performed to rectify paralytic ectropion. ancillary procedures included browpexy, upper-lid blepharoplasty, and temporalis sling. the results were excellent in 23 of 25 patients and good in the remaining two. after a minimum of 6 months' follow-up, there were no complications. the authors believe that the above procedures will yield consistently excellent cosmetic and functional results in patients with paralysis of the eyelids.
subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema associated with hypersensitivity pneumonitis. we report a rare case of a patient in whom severe subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema occurred in association with summer-type hypersensitivity pneumonitis and in whom overdistention or disruption of alveoli with obliteration of the respiratory bronchioles was revealed on open lung biopsy. this case suggests that obstructive bronchiolitis with hypersensitivity pneumonitis is an etiologic factor of mediastinal emphysema.
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas. a case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported. attention is directed to this syndrome because, although rare, it is usually associated with oral lesions. the blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules.
multicenter patency trial of intravenous anistreplase compared with streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. the team-2 study investigators. thrombolytic therapy has been shown to improve clinical outcome when administered early after the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction; the mechanism of benefit is believed to be reestablishment and maintenance of coronary artery patency. anistreplase is a second generation thrombolytic agent that is easily administered and has a long duration of action. to compare anistreplase (30 units/2-5 min) and therapy with the food and drug administration-approved regimen of intravenous streptokinase (1.5 million units/60 min), a randomized, double-blind, multicenter patency trial was undertaken in 370 patients less than 76 years of age with electrocardiographic st segment elevation who could be treated within 4 hours of symptom onset. coronary patency was determined by reading, in a blinded fashion, angiograms obtained early (90-240 minutes; mean, 140 minutes) and later (18-48 hours; mean, 28 hours) after beginning therapy. early total patency (defined as thrombolysis in myocardial infarction grade 2 or 3 perfusion) was high after both anistreplase (132/183 = 72%) and streptokinase (129/176 = 73%) therapy, and overall patency patterns were similar, although patent arteries showed "complete" (grade 3) perfusion more often after anistreplase (83%) than streptokinase (72%) (p = 0.03). similarly, residual coronary stenosis, determined quantitatively by a validated computer-assisted method, was slightly less in patent arteries early after anistreplase (mean stenosis diameter, 74.0%) than streptokinase (77.2%, p = 0.02). in patients with patent arteries without other early interventions, reocclusion risk within 1-2 days was defined angiographically and found to be very low (anistreplase = 1/96, streptokinase = 2/94). average coronary perfusion grade was greater, and percent residual stenosis was less, at follow-up than on initial evaluation and did not differ between treatment groups. enzymatic and electrocardiographic evolution was not significantly different in the two groups. despite rapid injection, anistreplase was associated with only a small (4-5 mm hg), transient (at 5-10 minutes) mean differential fall in blood pressure. in-hospital mortality rates were comparable for anistreplase and streptokinase (5.9%, 7.1%). stroke occurred in one (0.5%) and three (1.6%) patients, respectively; one stroke was hemorrhagic. other serious bleeding events and adverse experiences occurred uncommonly and with similar frequency in the two groups. thus, for the end points of our study (patency, safety), anistreplase and streptokinase showed overall favorable and relatively comparable outcomes, with a few differences.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
iatrogenic contamination of multidose vials in simulated use. a reassessment of current patient injection technique. an investigation of the potential spread of iatrogenic infections through contaminated multidose vials was performed. contamination of a multidose vial was hypothesized to occur after a single syringe is used to inject an infected patient with medication, and the same syringe subsequently is used to withdraw additional medication from the multidose vial. if the contaminated multidose vial is used for another patient, an iatrogenic infection may be spread. laboratory study of this injection technique found that viral plaque-forming units could be transmitted to a multidose vial in this manner. a survey of 100 fellows of the american academy of dermatology from the united states found that 24% of the respondents used this potentially unsafe procedure. the potential for iatrogenic spread of the human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis b virus is described. recommendations to avoid patient infection are made.
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot. following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action, a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially. in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling; pain also was alleviated. evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided. we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump, based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation. the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor (edrf) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important.
hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and consumption coagulopathy. we describe a case of hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with both microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (maha) and consumption coagulopathy, but without thrombocytopenia, which was completely cured by surgical resection of the tumor. the patient was a 54-yr-old japanese woman whose chief complaint was right upper abdominal discomfort. angiography and dynamic computed tomography revealed typical findings of hepatic cavernous hemangioma. the patient also had hematological disorders. at surgery, we performed an atypical right lobectomy to preserve as much normal liver tissue as possible. the patient has been well, with no related complaints or abnormal laboratory findings, 5 yr since her operation. this case indicates that giant cavernous hemangioma of the liver should be considered in the differential diagnosis of maha, and if surgical treatment is adequate, hematological abnormalities may be eliminated.
doppler echocardiographic assessment of changes in pulmonary artery pressure associated with vasodilating therapy in patients with congestive heart failure. transpulmonic pressure gradient and pulmonary artery pressures can be estimated from the doppler pulmonary regurgitant flow velocities by applying the simplified bernoulli equation. in this study, continuous-wave doppler echocardiography was used to assess changes in pulmonary regurgitant flow velocities associated with administration of vasodilators in 10 patients with congestive heart failure. m-mode echocardiographic parameters such as left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic dimension and fractional shortening did not change with administration of vasodilators. pulmonary regurgitant flow velocity at end diastole decreased from 1.9 +/- 0.6 to 1.3 +/- 0.3 m/sec (p less than 0.01), and doppler-estimated transpulmonic pressure gradient at end diastole decreased from 16 +/- 11 to 8 +/- 4 mm hg (p less than 0.01). doppler-estimated transpulmonic pressure gradient at end diastole was compared with catheterization-determined pulmonary arterial end-diastolic pressure before and after administration of vasodilators in three patients, and there was a good agreement between these measurements. thus noninvasive and sensitive assessment of the effect of vasodilators on pulmonary arterial end-diastolic pressure in patients with congestive heart failure is possible with continuous-wave doppler echocardiographic measurement of pulmonary regurgitant flow velocities.
thrombus in a natural left ventricle during left ventricular assist: another thromboembolic risk factor. systemic thromboembolism is one of the serious complications during use of a left ventricular assist system (lvas). the authors' original lvas has excellent antithrombogenicity to reduce this risk, but thrombus formation in a natural left ventricle (lv) is another risk factor for systemic embolization. we used our lvas in 22 patients. of these, lv wall motion was studied in 15, and a smoke-like echo disclosed thrombus in the lv in eight. when lvas sufficiently supported the systemic circulation, lv wall motion was irregular upon closure of the aortic valve. upon recovery of lv function and decrease of lvas flow, the smoke-like echo diminished and lv thrombus decreased in one, but lv thrombus remained unchanged or increased in seven. systemic administration of antithrombotic agents had an unclear effect. seven of eight patients with lv thrombus on echo died during or after lvas. in these seven, a high incidence of lv thrombus (71%), and systemic embolism to the brain (29%) or kidney (86%), were revealed at necropsy. we subsequently used local heparinization to prevent lv thrombus formation. one patient with a smoke-like echo had no evidence of lv thrombus or systemic embolism. during lv assist, careful management of the lvas, and intra-lv heparinization should be considered to reduce the risk of thrombus formation in the natural lv.
idiopathic intracranial hypertension. a prospective study of 50 patients. management of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (iih) should be based on the presence and progression of visual loss. to characterize the clinical course of iih more completely, we monitored the clinical status, especially visual function, in 50 consecutive newly-diagnosed patients over a period of 2 to 39 months (average follow-up 12.4 months). the mean age at onset of symptoms was 31 (range 11-58) yrs; 46 (92%) were women and 47 (94%) were obese (mean weight 90 kg). common symptoms were headache (92%), transient visual obscurations (72%) and intracranial noises (60%); 13 of the patients (26%) initially had complaints of sustained visual loss. there was visual loss as determined by goldmann perimetry in 96% and by automated perimetry in 92%. contrast sensitivity testing was abnormal in 50% and snellen acuity in 22%. two patients (4%) became blind in both eyes. the goldmann visual field grade improved in 60% of patients but visual function deteriorated in 5 (10%). deterioration of visual field grade was significantly associated only with weight gain during the year before diagnosis. visual loss in patients with iih is common and is often reversible. patients should be evaluated by perimetry using an appropriate strategy and contrast sensitivity testing, along with careful examination of the optic discs.
delayed presentation of intrapericardial diaphragmatic hernia, an unusual cause of colon obstruction. the earliest symptoms of diaphragmatic hernia may not appear until viscera incarcerate in it years after the causal injury. the most unusual site for a diaphragmatic hernia to occur is through the central tendon of the diaphragm into the pericardium. we present the case of a 43-year-old man who suffered a bowel obstruction when the transverse colon and omentum became incarcerated in the intrapericardial diaphragmatic hernia. the defect presumably resulted from blunt chest and abdominal trauma received 15 years earlier. the delayed presentation of intrapericardial diaphragmatic hernia is reviewed, and recommendations for evaluation and treatment are made.
a randomized study of methanol-extraction residue of bacille calmette-guerin as postsurgical adjuvant therapy of uveal melanoma. a randomized controlled clinical trial of methanol-extracted residue of bacille calmette-guerin adjuvant treatment of posterior uveal melanoma was undertaken. of 113 patients, 34 patients received adjuvant immunotherapy and 79 patients received no treatment. no difference in survival was observed between the adjuvant-treated group and the control group of patients. this study found that the size of the tumor was a highly significant risk factor for death caused by metastasis of uveal melanomas. the standard deviation of the nucleolar area of the neoplastic cells was a significant risk factor, even though patients with tumors composed of callender's spindle-type cells were not included in the study.
effect of ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion on superoxide dismutase activity in rat brain. acute cerebral ischemia increases the generation of free radicals, causing cell damage, and theoretically may decrease the activity of the scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase. to investigate the role of superoxide dismutase in cerebral ischemia, we used a model of middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. in this model an infarct is produced in the pyriform and frontoparietal cortices, extending into the lateral basal ganglia. we measured superoxide dismutase activity by using the xanthine oxidase cytochrome c reduction assay in these areas of rat brains. tissue samples were analyzed 20 minutes, 2, 6, or 24 hours, or 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion and 2 or 24 hours or 7 days after sham operation (n = 8-10 at each time). there was no significant change in superoxide dismutase activity relative to control values in any brain area at any time up to 24 hours after surgery. however, 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion a significant decline in superoxide dismutase activity, to 55%-68% (p less than 0.05) of that in unoperated controls, was observed in all brain areas. our results do not support an important role for changes in the activity of endogenous superoxide dismutase during the acute phase of cerebral ischemia. however, the decrease in superoxide dismutase activity 7 days after ischemia could indicate ongoing additional damage to peri-infarct tissue.
parascapular free flaps for head and neck reconstruction. we report our experience with single-stage, primary reconstruction of the head and neck in 29 consecutive patients using parascapular free flaps. the commonest indications were for craniofacial defects (9), oropharyngeal soft tissue defects (10), and combined mandibular and soft tissue losses (4). ablative surgery was performed for squamous carcinoma (22), melanoma (2), and malignant fibrous histiocytoma (2). seven patients died of recurrent disease during a 3 1/2 year follow-up. seven patients are alive with recurrence. flap complications included total loss (2) due to unsalvageable microvascular thrombosis, wound breakdown with oropharyngeal fistula (2), mandibular osteomyelitis (1), trismus (2), neck contracture (1), and donor site wound dehiscence (1). the overall success of this reconstruction was 93%. primary wound healing was the general rule with lower morbidity than with other reconstructive techniques. the flap is thin, pliable, and conforms well to three-dimensional defects. the lateral border of the scapula can be incorporated on the same vascular pedicle for single-stage mandibular reconstruction. no muscle is sacrificed, and the posterior donor defect is an added advantage. the parascapular flap is our first choice for reconstruction of major defects in the head and neck.
helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia: a prospective controlled study. although some authors believe that helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis, it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event. this study documents the prevalence of h. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age-, race-, and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects. all subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus. a sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies (immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin g) to h. pylori. the prevalence of h. pylori (by biopsy) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls (11% vs. 71%, p less than 0.0001). all patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology (inflammation and/or atrophy). in addition, 50% of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum. all controls with h. pylori had gastritis, 50% having active chronic gastritis. atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia (75% vs. 7%, p less than 0.0001). serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia: all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results, whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies. in conclusion, patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with h. pylori, and h. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process.
use of h2-receptor antagonists in children. h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras) have evolved into the mainstay of anti-acid therapy for pediatric patients, replacing antacids and other modes of therapy. much of the experience and data used for therapeutic decisions in children, however, have been extrapolated from adult studies. ranitidine and cimetidine have been studied most extensively in the adult and pediatric populations. both raise gastric ph and achieve other therapeutic endpoints; however, cimetidine appears to have a greater frequency of both adversed effects and drug interactions. h2ras are the preferred agents for prevention of stress ulcers, ulcer disease, and reflux esophagitis in the pediatric population.
effects of fish oil supplements in niddm subjects. controlled study. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a fish oil preparation (maxepa) on hemostatic function and fasting lipid and glucose levels in non-insulin-dependent diabetic (niddm) subjects. eighty niddm outpatients aged 55.9 yr (mean sd 11.5 yr) participated in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study of maxepa capsules (10 g/day) or olive oil (control) treatment over 6 wk. patients received either maxepa or olive oil in addition to preexisting therapy. metabolic and hemostatic variables were measured before treatment and after 3 and 6 wk. platelet membrane eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) content increased in the treatment group (p less than 0.001). maxepa supplementation was associated with a significant fall in total triglycerides (p less than 0.001) but did not affect total cholesterol (p = 0.7) compared with control treatment. fasting plasma glucose increased after 3 wk (p = 0.01) but not after 6 wk (p = 0.17) treatment with maxepa. spontaneous platelet aggregation in whole blood fell in the maxepa group (p less than 0.02) after 6 wk, but there were no changes in agonist-induced platelet aggregation, thromboxane generation in platelet-rich plasma, or plasma beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor iv levels. an increase in clotting factor vii (p = 0.02), without changes in fibrinogen or factor x levels, occurred in the maxepa group. similar reductions in blood pressure were observed in both groups. dietary supplementation with maxepa capsules (10 g/day) in niddm subjects is associated with improvement in hypertriglyceridemia but with deleterious effects in factor vii and blood glucose levels. most indices of platelet function are unaffected by this therapy.
isolation of sequences that span the fragile x and identification of a fragile x-related cpg island [published erratum appears in science 1991 apr 26;252(5005):494] yeast artificial chromosomes (yacs) were obtained from a 550-kilobase region that contains three probes previously mapped as very close to the locus of the fragile x syndrome. these yacs spanned the fragile site in xq27.3 as shown by fluorescent in situ hybridization. an internal 200-kilobase segment contained four chromosomal breakpoints generated by induction of fragile x expression. a single cpg island was identified in the cloned region between markers dxs463 and dxs465 that appears methylated in mentally retarded fragile x males, but not in nonexpressing male carriers of the mutation nor in normal males. this cpg island may indicate the presence of a gene involved in the clinical phenotype of the syndrome.
long-term adjuvant therapy of high-risk malignant melanoma with interferon alpha 2b. fifty-three high-risk melanoma patients in stage i and 15 patients in stage ii were treated after standard surgical intervention with adjuvant therapy with recombinant interferon alpha-2b (rifn alpha 2b) therapy for a total period of 20 months. concomitant patients (stage i, n = 82; stage ii, n = 33) with identical stages and prognostic factors without adjuvant therapy were used to evaluate the efficacy of rifn alpha 2b therapy. no difference in 5-year relapse incidence and overall survival rates could be detected. however, it appears that patients of both stage i and stage ii benefit from long-term adjuvant rifn alpha 2b therapy, because during the treatment period (20 months), the incidence of relapses was lower in comparison to controls. after stopping treatment the incidence of relapse is equal in treated and control groups. according to the results of our study, we suggest using continuous low-dose rifn alpha 2b therapy for adjuvant treatment of malignant melanoma.
clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for cervical myelopathy. the magnetic resonance imaging (mri) findings in 115 cases of cervical myelopathy, 121 cases of cervical radiculopathy, and 64 cases of neck pain with no neurologic deficit were prospectively studied to investigate the clinical value of mri for cervical myelopathy. the mri findings in the t1-weighted sagittal projection were classified into four groups according to the degree of the compressed deformities of the cervical cord. the degree of compression of the cervical cord on mri findings showed a significant correlation with the severity of myelopathy, the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal column, and the degree of compression of the dural tube in the myelograms (p less than 0.01). fifty-one patients of cervical myelopathy had undergone both preoperative and postoperative mri. of these, the spinal canal of 47 patients that was well decompressed was recognized according to plain computed tomography (ct). however, 24 (51%) of these 47 patients showed on mri a deformity in the spinal cord amounting to cord atrophy. the correlation between the clinical function of the spinal cord and the recovery of the cord deformity on mri at the operative levels was accurately investigated in 34 patients who had no cord deformities in the adjacent intervertebral levels. twenty patients with cord atrophy had slightly poor clinical results, although no significant difference was found between these 20 and 14 patients with recovery in the cord deformities. from these results, it was evident that t1-weighted mri is useful in the accurate diagnosis of compression myelopathy, in accurately deciding the level of the disease focus, and in the accurate assessment of the surgical results.
bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma: computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and radiographic evaluation. we report an unusual case of long-standing bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma in a 31-year-old white man. the mass was evaluated by plain film, computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. the differential diagnosis of fat-containing extraperitoneal pelvic masses is discussed.
lvas pump performance following initiation of left ventricular assistance. prevention of disturbed flow (e.g., flow stasis) and consequent thrombosis in heart pumps is based upon design characteristics determined during laboratory bench tests. these tests employ optimal filling and emptying characteristics, such as the full-fill to complete empty mode in the novacor left ventricular assist system. filling characteristics of the novacor lvas were examined during the first 48 hours after implantation in 14 patients. fill volume of the pump was reduced in pathologic states, such as cardiac tamponade, and following the initiation of right ventricular mechanical circulatory support. in addition, multiple regression analysis revealed that right ventricular function measured by the amount of inotropic support required, the right ventricular ejection fraction, and the total pulmonary resistance, significantly predicted left ventricular assist pump fill volume during the first 48 hours of support. flow visualization simulating these clinical conditions of incomplete filling suggest inadequate valve washing, particularly around the inlet valve and its conduit, which may predispose to thrombus formation.
left atrial to femoral arterial bypass using the biomedicus pump for operations of the thoracic aorta. left atrial to left femoral arterial bypass is an approach to operations of the thoracic aorta dating back to the late 1950s. since that time, various modifications of the basic bypass circuit have evolved. in addition, temporary bypass shunts have also been described in a variety of positions. the goals of bypass of the thoracic aorta regardless of the technique include prevention of distal hypoperfusion, which can lead to paraplegia, limb loss, multiple organ failure, and sometimes death. recently, there have been reports of the use of the biomedicus centrifugal pump in bypass circuits of the thoracic aorta. our series, as well as the success of others, using this variation of a traditional bypass circuit of the thoracic aorta, establishes the biopump's capability of minimizing inherent complications in the bypass circuit.
aberrant origin of the right coronary artery as a potential cause of sudden death: successful anatomical correction. a man with an aberrant right coronary artery and haemodynamically important prolapse of the mitral valve was successfully resuscitated. the aberrant right coronary artery was thought to be a possible cause of the cardiopulmonary arrest in this patient. both lesions were corrected at a single operation.
primary cytomegalovirus infection and gastric ulcers in normal host. a 42-year-old woman presented with epigastric pain and vomiting. upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed three gastric ulcers. histologic examination of biopsies from the ulcers showed cytomegalovirus inclusion bodies. the appearance of igm antibodies to cytomegalovirus indicated a recent and primary infection. stored serum from her last pregnancy 17 months previously contained no cytomegalovirus antibodies. a thorough evaluation of her immune system revealed no abnormality. we are aware of only two other cases where seroconversion was documented in normal hosts. cytomegalovirus infections in the gastrointestinal tract of normal hosts are very unusual but a common cause of morbidity in immunocompromised hosts. we believe that cytomegalovirus may have a role in the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal lesions in nonimmunocompromised patients.
restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty: pathologic observations in 20 patients histopathologic examination was performed in 20 patients undergoing antemortem coronary angioplasty. thirty-four lesions were dilated and the interval between coronary angioplasty and death ranged from several hours to 4 years. intimal proliferation of smooth muscle cells, as a major cause of restenosis, was observed in 83% to 100% of 28 lesions examined 11 days to 2 years after coronary angioplasty. in 20 lesions examined within 6 months, proliferating smooth muscle cells were predominantly of the synthetic type and there was abundant extracellular matrix substance chiefly composed of proteoglycans. in eight lesions examined between 6 months and 2 years, contractile type smooth muscle cells were dominant and extracellular matrix was composed chiefly of collagen. in three lesions examined after 2 years, evidence of antemortem coronary angioplasty was hardly identifiable and these lesions were almost indistinguishable from conventional atherosclerotic plaque. these temporal changes in histologic pattern provide a pathologic background for clinical reports that restenosis is predominantly found within 6 months after coronary angioplasty. morphometric analysis revealed that the extent of intimal proliferation was significantly greater in lesions with evidence of medial or adventitial tears than in lesions with no or only intimal tears.
treatment of relapsed non-hodgkin's lymphomas with dexamethasone, high-dose cytarabine, and cisplatin before marrow transplantation. combination chemotherapy is capable of curing many patients with newly diagnosed intermediate- and high-grade non-hodgkin's lymphomas (nhl), but treatment of relapsed nhl remains problematic. bone marrow transplantation (bmt) offers the best chance for disease-free survival, but interim chemotherapy is often necessary while awaiting bmt, especially for patients with bulky disease. we report here 39 patients (median age, 44 years) who failed primary therapy with doxorubicin-based regimens and subsequently were treated with one to six cycles of dexamethasone, 40 mg intravenous (iv) every day on days 1 to 4, cisplatin 100 mg/m2 by continuous infusion on day 1, and cytarabine 2 g/m2 iv every 12 hours x two doses on day 2 (dhap) before the planned bmt. histologies included 16 diffuse large-cell, six diffuse mixed, five diffuse small-cleaved, four lymphoblastic, and eight other. twenty-eight patients had stage iv disease, 13 had b symptoms, and 20 had an elevated lactate dehydrogenase (ldh). patients had been treated with a median of three previous chemotherapy regimens. sixty-one percent of patients had high tumor burdens according to the md anderson criteria. objective responses to dhap were seen in 26 patients (67%) including nine complete responses (crs) (23%) and 17 partial responses (prs) (44%), and responses lasted a median of 7.5 months. myelosuppression was the major toxicity, but there were no treatment-related deaths. to date, 17 patients have undergone subsequent bmt with a projected 3-year disease-free survival of 15%. we conclude that the dhap regimen is effective short-term salvage therapy for relapsed nhl patients, but the long-term prognosis of multiply relapsed patients remains poor.
six year follow up of a consecutive series of patients presenting to the coronary care unit with acute chest pain: prognostic importance of the electrocardiogram in a retrospective 6 year follow up data were obtained for 536 of 566 (95%) consecutive patients admitted to a coronary care unit with acute chest pain. their diagnoses were acute myocardial infarction in 290 (54%), myocardial ischaemia in 164 (31%), pericarditis in 16 (3%), and non-cardiac in 66 (12%). six year mortality was 36%, 24%, 0%, and 16% respectively. in patients with acute myocardial infarction a higher mortality rate during follow up was associated with a higher than average age, a higher than average creatine kinase, previous myocardial infarction, q wave infarction, and the presence of reciprocal changes. the presence of reciprocal changes was associated with higher than average concentration of serum creatine kinase, indicating more extensive infarction. infarction complicated by ventricular fibrillation or left bundle branch block was associated with a higher death rate. the electrocardiogram recorded at the time of acute myocardial infarction contains much useful prognostic information.
potential complications of high-dose epinephrine therapy in patients resuscitated from cardiac arrest adults resuscitated from nontraumatic cardiac arrest who received intravenous epinephrine in doses chosen by the treating physician and who survived at least 6 hours were studied to determine if high-dose epinephrine produced more complications than standard-dose. a total of 68 patients were enrolled and evaluated for postresuscitation complications attributable to epinephrine, using a two-tailed t test, and contingency analysis. the 33 patients receiving high-dose epinephrine and 35 patients receiving standard-dose epinephrine were similar in demographics and variables known to affect outcome. there was no difference in potential complications between groups except serum calcium, which was 1.97 mmol/l (sd, 0.20) in the high-dose epinephrine group and 2.10 (sd, 0.20) in the standard-dose group. hospital discharge rates (18% in the high-dose vs 30% in the standard-dose group) and neurological status on discharge were not significantly different. high-dose epinephrine did not produce increased direct complications in this cardiac arrest population compared with standard-dose epinephrine.
parotid duct communicating with a labial pit and ectopic salivary cyst. labial pits are usually described as blind epidermal invaginations of lip mucosa with occasional drainage of minor salivary gland secretions. a case of an aberrant parotid duct in communication with both a unilateral, commissural labial pit and an interposed salivary cyst is presented. a 7-year-old boy who had experienced lifelong clear drainage from a congenital pit at his right oral commissure developed fever, pain, and a submucosal mass of the right cheek over a 6-week period. a preoperative sialogram through the pit demonstrated a communication between the oral commissure fistula, an intervening salivary cyst, and a proximal tract from the cyst to the parotid gland. an en bloc resection of the pit, fistula tract, and cyst was performed through a transoral approach. the dissection was medial to the buccinator muscle. there has been no recurrence of the cyst after 1 year follow-up. a description of labial pits and parotid duct anomalies is presented; however, to our knowledge, this combination of anomalies has not been previously described.
autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a family. a positive family history of autoimmune disease is common among patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, but usually autoimmunity is directed at organs other than the liver. we document for the first time the multiple occurrence of autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a family. out of a sibship of seven, three sisters developed this, one sister developed coeliac and autoimmune thyroid disease, one sister showed serological signs of autoimmunity, while the two brothers were well with no signs of autoimmunity. hla typing showed that in association with the female sex dr3 seems to be more important than b8 in conferring susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, at least in this family.
endometrioma. an intra-abdominal troublemaker. a ten-year review of intestinal and abdominal wall endometriomas is reported. seven cases of intestinal and two cases of abdominal wall endometriomas are presented. symptoms were varied but a majority had some gynecologic complaint. in this select group of patients, preoperative investigations did not assist in establishing the diagnosis. all patients underwent surgery and coexisting inflammatory bowel disease was present in two patients. this review suggests that endometrioma of the intestine requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis and that danazol does not appear to be effective treatment for these patients.
cortical atrophy and cognitive performance in infantile nephropathic cystinosis. a group of children and adolescents with infantile nephropathic cystinosis underwent cognitive testing and were examined for cortical atrophy using magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography. ten of 11 patients demonstrated cortical atrophy. a consistent pattern of lower cognitive performance was found in patients with greater atrophy; however, only the relationship between atrophy and short-term memory approached statistical significance. in addition, evidence for greater impairment of visual memory than of other cognitive functions was observed. this latter observation did not appear to be related to the degree of atrophy.
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy. we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression. six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly (group 1), and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia (group 2). eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months. in group 1, 1 patient died and 3 patients (50%) experienced recurrent respiratory distress. five infants sustained a major postoperative complication, and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days. in group 2, however, aortopexy was uniformly successful. there were no deaths, no postoperative complications, and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress, and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days. for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia, aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality. great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes.
in vivo incorporation of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate into a rat metastatic brain-tumor model. lipid metabolism of an intracerebrally implanted brain tumor and normal brain was investigated in awake fischer 344 rats using intravenously injected [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate as a probe. a suspension of walker 256 carcinosarcoma cells (250 cells in 5 microliters medium), with or without 1% low-melting-point agar, was implanted into the caudate nucleus of rats 8 to 9 weeks old. control animals received an intracerebral injection without tumor cells. seven days after implantation, awake rats were infused intravenously for 5 minutes with [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate (6.4 mci/kg). the rats were killed 20 minutes after initiation of the infusion and coronal brain slices were obtained for quantitative autoradiography and light histological study. tumor cell masses were histologically well demarcated from the surrounding brain tissue. tumor tissue incorporation of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate was heterogeneous, ranging on average from 3.1- to 6.1-fold greater than in the corresponding contralateral brain. in addition, incorporation corresponded to regional tumor cell density. the incorporation rate constant of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate in tumor was significantly increased compared to control brain and was independent of tumor size. necrotic areas within tumors showed no incorporation of radiolabeled palmitate. brain surrounding the tumors and control injection sites showed reactive gliosis, and possessed 30% greater incorporation of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate than contralateral normal brain. these results suggest that [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate can be used to image brain tumors in vivo, measuring turnover and/or synthesis of tumor and brain lipid.
acute and chronic bioeffects of single and multiple doses of piezoelectric shockwaves (edap lt.01). piezoelectric second generation lithotriptors are an established means of administering extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (eswl) enabling treatment to be performed without anaesthesia or analgesia, but higher shockwave doses and multiple or staged treatment are frequently required. the bioeffects of this modality of eswl, therefore, require further assessment. seven experimental groups of adult male rabbits were treated using the edap lt.01 in order to determine the acute and chronic bioeffects of clinical dose, excess dose, divided excess dose, high frequency and multiple treatment (x10) piezoelectric shockwaves (psw). renal function was measured before and after treatment using mercaptoacetyltriglycine (mag 3) scans. gross and histological morphological changes were assessed at one and 30 days following application of psw. application of single clinical dose psw was not associated with any significant functional or morphological renal injury. excess dose psw caused transient gross renal contusion, which resolved in the majority of animals with no persistent microscopic abnormality. divided excess dose psw resulted in no gross or microscopic damage. high frequency psw was associated with mild histological abnormality. multiple psw treatments caused small discrete fibrotic lesions in all cases, without any change in renal function.
treatment of aggressive keratoacanthomas by radiotherapy. keratoacanthomas infrequently are treated by radiotherapy. however, keratoacanthomas that are recurrent after surgical excision or whose resection would result in cosmetic deformity may benefit from radiotherapy. between january 1970 and june 1988, 29 such keratoacanthomas in 18 patients were irradiated. doses ranged from 3500 cgy in 15 fractions to 5600 cgy in 28 fractions. measured end points of therapy were (1) initial response, (2) freedom from recurrence, and (3) quality of the subsequent cosmetic appearance (scored as good, fair, or poor). no lesion progressed and all eventually regressed completely. cosmetic results generally were considered good by both the patient and the referring dermatologist; none of the results was considered poor. our results demonstrate that radiation is an effective means of treating keratoacanthomas.
partial nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma: indications, results and implications. of 52 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for tumor 44 were found to have renal cell carcinoma. the indications for this parenchyma-sparing procedure were categorized according to the initial status of the contralateral kidney and included bilateral tumors or tumor in a solitary kidney in 16 patients (mandatory indications), unilateral carcinoma with compromise of the contralateral kidney by a benign disease process in 9 (relative indications) and small peripheral tumor with a normal contralateral kidney in 19 (elective indications). there were 4 recurrences that accounted for 3 deaths, all in patients with mandatory indications. all patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for relative or elective indications were without definite evidence of recurrent disease at last followup (over-all mean 36 months). our results suggest that conservative surgery can often provide effective and advantageous therapy for renal cancer and we encourage further consideration of the role of partial nephrectomy as an alternative to radical nephrectomy in selected patients with small peripheral tumors and normal contralateral kidneys.
long-term psychosocial adjustment to coronary artery disease. personality hardiness, which has been conceptualized as a potential internal resource facilitating stress resistance, was examined in conjunction with type a behavior, perceived family cohesion and adaptability, and sociodemographic and medical variables to assess the independent differential correlations of these factors with long-term psychosocial adjustment to coronary artery disease. one hundred twenty-eight patients completed the third generation hardiness scale, together with questionnaires measuring type a behavior, perceived family cohesion and adaptability, and psychosocial adjustment to illness. the results showed that personality hardiness was the most salient correlate of psychosocial adjustment. high hardiness scores were associated with good adjustment to the various life domains. angina severity accounted for the variance in social domains, but not the psychologic distress domain. type a behavior, both dimensions of perceived family dynamics, and the sociodemographic variables did not have a significant role in explaining the variance in psychosocial adjustment. we conclude that personality hardiness could serve as a valid indicator of long-term psychosocial adjustment in patients with coronary artery disease.
circadian esophageal motor function in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease. effective esophageal peristalsis is a major determinant of esophageal clearance function and may contribute to the development of complications in gastroesophageal reflux disease. using 24-hour ambulatory esophageal manometry, we compared the circadian esophageal motor activity of normal volunteers to that of patients with increased esophageal exposure to gastric juice and various grades of mucosal injury (no mucosal injury, esophagitis, stricture, or barrett's esophagus). the prevalence of a mechanically defective lower esophageal sphincter, esophageal acid exposure time, and the frequency of nonperistaltic esophageal contractions during the supine, upright, and meal periods increased with increasing severity of mucosal injury. the median amplitude of esophageal contractions was compromised only in patients with a mechanically defective sphincter. this was particularly so in patients with stricture or barrett's esophagus and was associated with an increased frequency of ineffective contractions (less than 30 mm hg). these data show that esophageal motor function deteriorates with increasing severity of mucosal injury. this appears to be caused by persistent reflux of gastric juice across a mechanically defective lower esophageal sphincter. the need for surgical correction of a mechanically defective sphincter before the loss of esophageal body function is implicated.
infrainguinal revascularization for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. we studied the efficacy of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. the patency of 42 femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypasses, performed for limb salvage in 37 patients with end-stage renal disease, was assessed with doppler ultrasonography and dye tests. patency rates and limb salvage were determined by life-table analysis. average age was 45 years (range, 28 to 61 years); 23 of the 37 were men. twenty-three patients had diabetes mellitus, and 16 were smokers. bypass procedures were done in 32 instances while the patients were maintained with chronic hemodialysis and in five instances with peritoneal dialysis; in five instances the patients had had successful renal transplantation. indications for revascularization included pain at rest, nonhealing ulcer, or distal gangrene. femoropopliteal bypass was done in 32 limbs; 10 were more distal procedures. reversed saphenous vein was the conduit in 30 cases; prosthetic material was used in the remainder. autogenous material was used in all distal bypasses. four patients required graft revision during the initial hospitalization, but none thereafter. two patients died within the operative period, nine within 18 months of operation. nine major operations were required. three-month cumulative graft patency was achieved in 41 cases and corresponding limb salvage in 33 cases; 18-month patency was achieved in 34 cases and overall limb salvage in 33 cases. success of limb salvage most closely correlated with preoperative ankle-brachial ratio and level of bypass required.
a lethal complication of papaverine-induced priapism. a large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported. we report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy. when the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism.
capillary leakage in inflammation. a study by vascular labeling. the local injection of pure inflammatory mediators induces venular leakage. to test the effect of endogenous mediators from dying tissue on vascular leakage, the authors devised an experimental model simulating an infarct, whereby living vessels would be exposed to fragments of organs undergoing aseptic necrosis. tissues from donor rats were implanted aseptically in the cremasteric sac. control rats were implanted with materials deemed to be as close as possible to nonirritating: boiled tissues and spheres of teflon or glass. at different points the rats were injected intravenously with carbon black and killed an hour later. whole cremaster mounts showed that vascular labeling was strictly venular up to 8 hours, mixed with capillary labeling between 12 and 24 hours, and mainly or exclusively capillary at 48 hours. histology showed an acute inflammatory infiltrate in the labeled areas. a similar but weaker labeling pattern accompanied by milder inflammation was seen in controls. these results indicate that the vascular leakage in aseptic inflammation is biphasic, first venular, then capillary; and that the capillary phase is induced by the inflammatory reaction itself, possibly through a form of diffuse angiogenesis.
antibodies directed against neutrophils (c-anca and p-anca) are of distinct diagnostic value in systemic vasculitis. in a prospective study, sera from over 700 patients with suspected vasculitis, including over 200 patients undergoing renal biopsy, were examined for antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antigen (anca). an indirect immunofluorescence assay on ethanol fixed human neutrophils identified two types of autoantibody: c-anca, which produces diffuse cytoplasmic staining and p-anca, which produces an artefactual nuclear/perinuclear staining pattern. the diagnosis of patients in whom anca of either form was found was established following case note review according to defined diagnostic criteria. forty of 45 patients whose sera contained c-anca at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 satisfied the diagnostic criteria for wegener's granulomatosis or microscopic polyarteritis. twelve of 30 patients with p-anca at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 were also classified as having one of these disorders. seventeen of the remaining 18 patients had immune-mediated disorders with deep organ damage. of 47 anca-positive patients who underwent renal biopsy, 21 had glomerulonephritis associated with wegener's glomerulonephritis and a further 22 had a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis. ethanol fixation is important for discrimination of c-anca and p-anca. c-anca are highly specific for wegener's granulomatosis and microscopic polyarteritis. in patients undergoing renal biopsy, the presence of these antibodies is highly specific for a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis.
primary central nervous system t-cell lymphoma. case report. primary central nervous system (cns) t-cell lymphoma is extremely rare. the present case report provides immunocytochemical evidence for a cerebellar cns t-cell lymphoma. the patient underwent surgery followed by radiation therapy and is alive and well 36 months postoperatively. the clinical and pathological features of primary cns t-cell lymphoma as well as diagnostic measures and treatment options are discussed, together with a compilation of all previous case reports of primary cns t-cell lymphomas.
aspiration pneumonia and the laryngeal mask airway a case of aspiration pneumonia is reported after the use of a laryngeal mask airway in a young woman undergoing an elective cholecystectomy. the case illustrates the hazards of regurgitation with the laryngeal mask airway and the need for further evaluation when used with controlled mechanical ventilation.
value of carvedilol in congestive heart failure secondary to coronary artery disease. despite considerable interest in the use of beta-blocking agents in congestive heart failure (chf), their clinical application is limited because of their negative inotropic effects. beta blockers with vasodilating properties may have the advantage of overcoming this, however. carvedilol, a beta-blocking agent with vasodilating properties, was evaluated in 17 patients with chronic chf secondary to ischemic heart disease with a resting left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 45%, who were being maintained on diuretics. exercise testing, radionuclide ventriculography, and right-sided cardiac catheterization were performed and intraarterial blood pressure measured before and after 8 weeks of carvedilol therapy in a dosage of 12.5 to 50.0 mg twice a day. twelve patients completed the study and 5 withdrew. symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement was demonstrated in 11 of the 12 patients. heart rate and intraarterial blood pressure were both reduced by chronic therapy. mean +/- standard deviation exercise time improved from 4.3 +/- 1.6 to 7.1 +/- 2.7 minutes (p less than 0.0001), as did resting left ventricular ejection fraction, from 27 +/- 9 to 31 +/- 11% (p less than 0.02). pulmonary arterial wedge pressure fell from 19 +/- 7 mm hg to 12 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.001) and total systemic vascular resistance from 1,752 +/- 403 to 1,497 +/- 310 dynes/s/cm-5/m2 (p less than 0.02). stroke volume index improved also, from 31 +/- 6 ml to 40 +/- 6 ml (p less than 0.0005). these hemodynamic changes were mediated partly by vasodilation, diminished myocardial oxygen demand and reduction of sympathetic overactivity in the failing heart. these data suggest that carvedilol may have beneficial effects in patients with chronic chf secondary to coronary artery disease.
treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the skin with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and bleomycin. the authors treated 14 patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma (scc) of the skin or lip with one to four cycles of combination chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin by bolus injection, and 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) and bleomycin by continuous 5-day infusion. objective responses were seen in 11 of the 13 evaluable patients (84%). four patients had a complete remission (30%) and seven patients, a partial remission (54%). local control after definitive complementary radiation and/or surgical treatment was achieved in seven patients. toxic side effects was acceptable; they consisted of nausea and vomiting in all patients, transient skin changes, hematologic (grade 3/4) abnormalities in four patients, and pulmonary fibrosis in one elderly patient. these results show that this chemotherapy combination could play a role in reducing the tumor mass and in facilitating definitive treatment to obtain better functional and cosmetic results in advanced scc of the skin.
pharmacokinetics of famotidine after intravenous administration in liver disease. the pharmacokinetics of famotidine were studied after the administration of a single intravenous dose of 20-mg to seven normal volunteers, six patients with chronic hepatitis, 14 patients with compensated cirrhosis, and seven patients with decompensated cirrhosis. the plasma terminal elimination half-life of famotidine was significantly prolonged and famotidine total body clearance was significantly reduced in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, whose creatinine clearance was 57.2 +/- 6.7 ml/min/1.48 m2, but these changes were not significant in patients with chronic hepatitis (creatinine clearance: 109.2 +/- 10.5 ml/min/1.48 m2) or in patients with compensated cirrhosis (creatinine clearance: 72.2 +/- 26.5 ml/min/1.48 m2 in comparison with normal volunteers. the total volume of distribution at steady state was not significantly different between the normal volunteers and the three groups of patients. famotidine total body clearance showed a weak but significant correlation with the creatinine clearance (r = 0.66, p less than 0.001), serum albumin level (r = 0.51, p less than 0.01), and serum total bilirubin level (r = 0.36, p less than 0.05), which suggested that the reduction in clearance was due in part to the concomitant renal impairment, as well as hepatic dysfunction in these patients. in conclusion, famotidine total body clearance was reduced in decompensated cirrhosis, indicating that the dose schedule requires modification in patients with this condition.
three staged approach to the surgical management of renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium. case report. left renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium was treated by angioinfarction, removal of right atrial tumour using cardiopulmonary bypass and ten days later abdominal radical nephrectomy and inferior vena cava thrombectomy. twenty four months later the patient remains well with no evidence of tumour recurrence.
familial multiple desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas. a kindred with familial multiple desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas is described. desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas should be added to the group of lesions that indicate an inherited pattern when they occur as multiple primary tumors. the implications for nosologic status and treatment of desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas are considered.
endosonography of peri-anal and peri-colorectal fistula and/or abscess in crohn's disease. transcolorectal endosonography (es) was performed in 36 patients with crohn's disease suspected clinically to have a fistula or abscess. a hypoechoic or anechoic duct-like lesion immediately adjacent to the anorectal lumen compatible with a fistula was found in 32 patients. a communication between the fistulous tract and adjacent structures such as the skin, anal canal, or vagina was detected in all 32 patients. an anechoic cavity adjacent to or communicating with the fistula was visualized in 29 of the 36 patients. a fistula was visualized in the remaining seven patients with no evidence of an abscess. this anechoic cavity compatible with an abscess was surgically confirmed in 14 of 17 patients. we judged the extent and configuration of the abnormalities to be more clearly visualized by es when results were compared with fistulography in five patients. there were no es complications, and we conclude that es is the preferred diagnostic procedure in patients with peri-rectal pathology because of the low risk of bacterial dissemination and low incidence of patient discomfort. utilizing es after non-surgical treatment was successful in 19 patients for documentation of the response to therapy.
pelvic resections: the rizzoli institute experience. materials, methods, and techniques of pelvic resections are discussed. results, including the complications of nerve damage, infection, and vascular, visceral, and reconstructive complications are tabulated.
usefulness of antithrombotic therapy in resting angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction in preventing death and myocardial infarction (a pilot study from the antithrombotic therapy in acute coronary syndromes study group). in a prospective pilot trial of antithrombotic therapy in the acute coronary syndromes (atacs) of resting and unstable angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction, 3 different antithrombotic regimens in the prevention of recurrent ischemic events were compared for efficacy. ninety-three patients were randomized to receive aspirin (325 mg/day), or full-dose heparin followed by warfarin, or the combination of aspirin (80 mg/day) plus heparin and then warfarin. trial antithrombotic therapy was added to standardized antianginal medication and continued for 3 months or until an end point was reached. analysis, by intention-to-treat, of the 3-month end points, revealed the following: recurrent ischemia occurred in 7 patients (22%) after aspirin, in 6 patients (25%) after heparin and warfarin, and in 16 patients (43%) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin; coronary revascularization occurred in 12 patients (38%) after aspirin, in 12 patients (50%) after heparin and warfarin, and in 22 patients (60%) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin; myocardial infarction occurred in 1 patient (3%) after aspirin, in 3 patients (13%) after heparin and warfarin, and in no patient after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin; no deaths occurred after aspirin or after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin, but 1 patient (4%) died after warfarin alone; major bleeding occurred in 3 patients (9%) after aspirin, in 2 patients (8%) after heparin and warfarin, and in 3 patients (8%) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin. recurrent myocardial ischemia occurred at 3 +/- 3 days after randomization.
what practicing physicians in north carolina rate as their most challenging geriatric medicine concerns. we recently surveyed a random sample of 500 physicians in family practice, general practice, and internal medicine in north carolina, to discover their most challenging geriatric concerns. using a three-stage survey technique, respondents were asked to answer two open-ended questions about the most challenging geriatric problems they face and what specific geriatric content areas would attract their participation in an educational program. they were then asked to rank 34 topics on which they would like more information. a total of 242 responses were received for a 55% response rate (63 of the 500 were undeliverable). responses indicated that physicians are more concerned with management than diagnosis and revealed considerable evidence of empathy and concern. the top three topics had to do with the management of dementia, multiple problems, and depression. approximately 25% of physicians consider problems of financing health care as among the most challenging problems.
improvement of septic syndrome after administration of recombinant human growth hormone (rhgh)? twenty patients with generalized sepsis were studied prospectively to evaluate the effects of recombinant human growth hormone (rhgh) administration. five patients had developed sepsis after major abdominal surgery, 15 patients after multiple trauma with head injury (hti-iss 38 +/- 2 and glasgow coma scale 4 +/- 1). the urea production rate (upr) could be significantly reduced by the intramuscular administration of 1.5 iu of rhgh/kg bodyweight (bw) per day (upr day: 5, 62 +/- 6.7 gm/d vs. upr day: 10, 42.6 +/- 5.9 gm/d). the catabolic index of bistrian (bi) was significantly lower after rhgh therapy on day 10 compared to day 5. igf-1 increased significantly after the administration of rhgh. the nitrogen balance, however, did not become positive, despite the administration of rhgh. the changes in sepsis were estimated by the scoring system according to elebute and stoner on days 3, 5, 7, 10, and 13. in those patients who were available for post-treatment evaluation the parameters had returned to baseline values after the withdrawal of rhgh. results indicate that this therapy might ameliorate the nitrogen intake, but has no influence on the course of sepsis. compared to previously published results in nonseptic patients, the somatomedin inhibitors as well as the split-products of the complement system and the metabolites of arachidonic acid may have been responsible for this weak effect of rhgh and igf-1 in septicemia.
application of pulsed and continuous wave 1.32 and 1.06 microns wavelengths of the nd:yag laser in the canine tracheobronchial tree: a comparative study. previous investigations have shown good clinical potential for the use of the 1.32 microns wavelength nd:yag laser because its soft tissue absorption is better than that of the 1.06 microns wavelength nd:yag laser. the 1.32 microns wavelength nd:yag laser has an absorption coefficient in water that is 10 times higher than the 1.06 microns wavelength nd:yag laser. a comparative in vivo study of laser soft tissue effects was performed by using the 1.32 microns wavelength and the 1.06 microns wavelength nd:yag lasers in a pulsed wave (pw) mode and continuous wave (cw) mode using a non-contact endoscopic delivery system. a standard 5 mm mucosal lesion was made in the canine tracheobronchial tree down to the level of the perichondrium. soft tissue and cartilage effects were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy, acutely, 1 week and 2 weeks after operation, and a comparison was made between the different laser modalities. to create similar lesions, higher energy was required when using the 1.06 microns wavelength nd:yag laser. soft tissue injury was greater with the 1.06 microns wavelength in cw mode, and no cartilage damage occurred in the pw mode. soft tissue and cartilage repair after 1 and 2 weeks was better with the 1.32 microns wavelength laser. in comparison, the co2 laser and the contact nd:yag laser proved to be more precise cutting tools than the 1.32 microns wavelength or the 1.06 microns wavelength nd:yag lasers. both nd:yag laser wavelengths were useful for coagulation and vaporization of tissues and blood vessels. more studies are needed to determine the effect of the new 1.32 microns wavelengths on endotracheal tumors.
single lumen ileum with myectomy: a possible alternative to the pelvic reservoir in restorative proctocolectomy. an alternative procedure to construction of a pelvic ileal reservoir was assessed which avoids the need for a pouch, while providing an adequate rectal substitute and good continence. thirty-six female adult beagles were allotted randomly to undergo total colectomy with (a) ileo-anal anastomosis alone, (b) ileo-anal anastomosis with two 15 cm myectomies, (c) ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy with an ileo-ileal valve, or (d) ileo-anal anastomosis with a duplicated j pouch. the animals were studied before operation and at 4-weekly intervals for 20 weeks after operation. mortality rates were similar. ileal compliance was increased significantly by myectomy from 0.64 ml/mmhg (median, interquartile range 0.49-0.78) after ileo-anal anastomosis alone to 1.65 mmhg (1.16-1.93), p less than 0.01, an increase which was maintained. ileal capacity was also increased both by myectomy and by the j pouch: ileo-anal anastomosis = 85 ml (75-100 ml), ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy = 139 ml (116-156 ml), ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy and ileo-ileal valve = 125 ml (range 85-145 ml), ileo-anal anastomosis and j pouch = 130 ml (range 75-165 ml) (p less than 0.01). bowel function in the other three groups was markedly superior to ileo-anal anastomosis alone. mean transit time was significantly less after ileo-anal anastomosis, 5.2 h (2.6-8.2 h) than after both ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy, 10.5 h (9.6-13.9 h), p less than 0.05 and ileo-anal anastomosis and j pouch, 11.0 h (8.4-13.0 h), p less than 0.05, but addition of an ileo-ileal valve did not produce a further increase in transit time, 12.9 h (range 10.5-14.5 h), p = n.s. myectomy of single lumen ileum may be a useful alternative to a pelvic ileal reservoir in restorative proctocolectomy.
false aneurysm formation of the great arteries after arterial switch operation. an infant with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent a two-staged arterial switch operation, after which mediastinal infection occurred. continuous irrigation with povidone-iodine solution was performed for 10 days. after that, the patient experienced life-threatening hemorrhage three times. at the time of the second hemorrhage, greater omental transfer was performed. on postoperative day 109, false aneurysm was recognized, having developed from both great arteries. successful repair was performed on postoperative day 110.
restoration of liver function in gunn rats without immunosuppression using transplanted microencapsulated hepatocytes. microencapsulation of cells within synthetic semipermeable membranes is a novel technique that enables the transplantation of cell cultures without the need for immunosuppression. we have previously shown that transplanted isolated encapsulated hepatocytes can provide sufficient short-term metabolic support to improve the survival of animals with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure. here we have demonstrated the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in providing long-term metabolic liver support in gunn rats. gunn rats have a congenital inability to conjugate bilirubin and thus exhibit lifelong hyperbilirubinemia. we studied the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in restoring this specific liver function. free hepatocytes, isolated from male wistar rats, were microencapsulated with collagen within a trilayered sodium alginate-poly-l-lysine-sodium alginate membrane using techniques developed in our laboratory. a total of 45 gunn rats underwent intraperitoneal transplantation with free hepatocytes (5 x 10(7], isolated encapsulated hepatocytes (5 x 10(7], control (empty) microcapsules or no transplant (untreated controls). serum bilirubin levels were monitored daily for 10 days after transplantation, and subsequent weekly samples were obtained for up to 1 mo. microcapsules were studied by light and electron microscopy 1 mo after transplantation. during the first week after transplantation, the mean maximum reduction in serum bilirubin levels for the isolated encapsulated hepatocytes, free hepatocytes and control microcapsule transplanted groups was 45.7%, 18.6% and 14.3%, respectively. for up to 1 mo thereafter the mean reduction in serum bilirubin levels in these respective groups was 34.8%, 13.5% and 3.3%.
admissions to the intensive care unit after complications of anaesthetic techniques over 10 years. 2. the second 5 years compared with the first 5 years there was a 19% increase in general anaesthetics, a 171% increase in local and (or) sedation techniques and a 9% increase in obstetric epidurals with no increase in anaesthetic staffing. in this second 5-year period, 46 patients were admitted to the intensive care unit as a result of a complication of an anaesthetic technique. these patients represented 1 in 2371 anaesthetic techniques carried out in the district compared with the previous 5 years where the incidence was 1 in 1543. seven patients died (15.2%). the complication was considered to be wholly or partially avoidable in 14 instances (30.4%). four of these subjects died.
amphotericin b vs high-dose ketoconazole for empirical antifungal therapy among febrile, granulocytopenic cancer patients. a prospective, randomized study. we compared high-dose ketoconazole (800 mg/kg per day, orally) with amphotericin b (0.5 mg/kg per day, intravenously) for empirical antifungal therapy in a prospective, randomized study of persistently or recurrently febrile granulocytopenic cancer patients. among 97 patients eligible for empirical antifungal therapy, 20 (21%) of these patients were ineligible for randomization to ketoconazole treatment because of their inability to tolerate oral medications. among 72 patients eligible for randomization, 64 were assessable (32 in each arm of the study). five of six patients with proved fungal infections who were randomized to receive ketoconazole treatment required crossover to amphotericin b treatment because of progressive infection. the conditions of three of these five patients improved after receiving amphotericin b. the frequency of transaminase elevation was higher in those receiving ketoconazole, while the frequency of azotemia was higher in those receiving amphotericin b. bioavailability of ketoconazole was unpredictable. amphotericin b remains the drug of choice for empirical antifungal therapy in granulocytopenic patients; whereas, lack of a parenteral formulation, ineffectiveness against proved mycoses, and unreliable bioavailability preclude high-dose ketoconazole from being an appropriate compound for this purpose.
hormone replacement therapy. how to select the best preparation and regimen. hormone replacement therapy is a mainstay of preventive healthcare for the maturing female population. estrogen deficiency that comes with menopause can have serious effects and is especially important in light of the increasing life expectancy of women. various estrogen and progesterone preparations are available, and their best application requires understanding of the different potencies and metabolic effects. daily maintenance therapy without a drug-free interval is becoming the standard method of the 1990s. no doubt the future will bring even better delivery regimens.
mastectomy following preoperative chemotherapy. strict operative criteria control operative morbidity. the surgical morbidity associated with aggressive preoperative chemotherapy in 106 patients with advanced primary breast cancer who had chemotherapy followed by mastectomy was examined. these patients were compared with a group of 91 consecutive patients who had mastectomy without preoperative chemotherapy. strict operative criteria were used to determine the timing of mastectomy following chemotherapy. wound infection rates were no different in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone groups (7% versus 4%; p = 0.62). the incidence of wound necrosis was similar (11% versus 6%; p = 0.29). seroma formation was decreased significantly in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone group (15% versus 28%; p = 0.04). intensive preoperative chemotherapy did not delay the reinstitution of postoperative treatment (30% versus 20%; p = 0.27). however, when delay in instituting postoperative chemotherapy was more than 30 days, there was a significant decrease in overall survival rate (p = 0.04). this study provides evidence that intensive preoperative chemotherapy and mastectomy can be performed without increased morbidity. furthermore it is important to institute systemic chemotherapy within 30 days of mastectomy to achieve maximum survival.
comparative clinical pharmacology of calcium channel blockers. calcium channel blockers are effective antihypertensive agents, both as initial monotherapy and in combination with other antihypertensive agents. these drugs are also effective in the treatment of chronic, stable angina, variant angina and supraventricular arrhythmias. drugs in this class have different affinities for calcium channels in vascular smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, cardiac sinus and atrioventricular node. they are all useful in hypertension and angina, but only verapamil and diltiazem are also useful in the control of heart rate and supraventricular arrhythmias. nimodipine may control vascular spasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. calcium channel blockers have also been used in the treatment of migraine headache and raynaud's phenomenon.
effects of spermatic vascular division for correction of the high undescended testis on testicular function. orchiopexy with division of the spermatic artery and veins is a commonly used technique for correcting the high undescended testis, although the longterm results have not been clearly defined. the left spermatic artery and veins of 22 adult wistar albino rats were divided while preserving the vessels associated with the vas and cremaster muscle (dt). a sham operation was performed on the left testicle of six additional rats (st). at 3 weeks postoperatively, both testes from all rats were removed. all testes were viable and bled when incised, although bleeding was considerably reduced in testes with dt. mean testicular weights after dt were 1,061 +/- 423 mg compared with 1,634 +/- 125 mg for st rats (p less than 0.02) and 1,508 +/- 119 mg for contralateral testes. the mean tubular diameter after dt was 220 +/- 37 mu compared with 303.1 +/- 10.7 mu for st testes (p less than 0.02). the testicular biopsy score based upon the morphology of the spermatic tubules was 4.46 +/- 3.32 for dt testes and 8.65 +/- 0.23 for st testes (p less than 0.02) compared with 8.38 +/- 0.18 for contralateral testes and an absolute normal value of 10. no morphologic abnormalities were observed in the contralateral unoperated testes from any of the rats. the contralateral testes in 12 additional rats were removed before dt. the mean testosterone values in these rats with one testicle was 1.43 +/- 0.75 ng/ml. three weeks after dt, testosterone values were 0.19 +/- 0.31 ng/ml (p less than 0.01). it is concluded that division of the main spermatic artery and vein in rats produces testicular atrophy with spermatogenic arrest and interstitial cell dysfunction. although collateral blood flow to the testis may be demonstrated, tissue perfusion is inadequate for normal spermatogenesis and endocrine function.
petrosal sinus sampling: technique and rationale. bilateral simultaneous sampling of the inferior petrosal sinuses is an extremely sensitive, specific, and accurate test for diagnosing cushing disease and distinguishing between that entity and the ectopic acth syndrome. it is also valuable for lateralizing small hormone-producing adenomas within the pituitary gland. the inferior petrosal sinuses connect the cavernous sinuses with the ipsilateral internal jugular veins. the anatomy of the anastomoses between the inferior petrosal sinus, the internal jugular vein, and the venous plexuses at the base of the skull varies, but it is almost always possible to catheterize the inferior petrosal sinus. in addition, variations in size and anatomy are often present between the two inferior petrosal sinuses in a patient. advance preparation is required for petrosal sinus sampling. teamwork is a critical element, and each member of the staff should know what he or she will be doing during the procedure. the samples must be properly labeled, processed, and stored. specific needles, guide wires, and catheters are recommended for this procedure. the procedure is performed with specific attention to the three areas of potential technical difficulty: catheterization of the common femoral veins, crossing the valve at the base of the left internal jugular vein, and selective catheterization of the inferior petrosal sinuses. there are specific methods for dealing with each of these areas. the sine qua non of correct catheter position in the inferior petrosal sinus is demonstration of reflux of contrast material into the ipsilateral cavernous sinus. images must always be obtained to document correct catheter position. special attention must be paid to two points to prevent potential complications: the patient must be given an adequate dose of heparin, and injection of contrast material into the inferior petrosal sinuses and surrounding veins must be done gently and carefully. when the procedure is performed as outlined, both inferior petrosal sinuses can be catheterized in more than 98% of patients. the complication rate is low, and the theoretical risk of major morbidity or death is less than 1% (neither has yet occurred, to our knowledge). the most common complication is groin hematoma.
comparison of myocardial imaging with iodine-123-iodophenyl-9-methyl pentadecanoic acid and thallium-201-chloride for assessment of patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. iodine-123-iodophenyl-9-methyl-pentadecanoic acid [( 123i]mpda) and thallium-201 (201tl) were sequentially injected in 11 patients during exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. simultaneous dual-energy planar images were obtained at 5 min, 3 and 5 hr. all studies were concordantly either positive (8/11) or negative (3/11) by both radionuclides. exact agreement for segmental uptake was 93%, 94% and 94% for 5-min, 3- and 5-hr images, respectively. exact agreement for defect reversibility by 3 and 5 hr were 95% and 92%. the initial defect contrasts and myocardial-to-lung ratios were similar by both agents but myocardial-to-liver ratio was lower by [123i]mpda at 5 min, which became similar to 201tl at 5 hr. normal percent myocardial clearances of both agents were comparable and significantly higher than those in defect zones. thus [123i]mpda is suitable for myocardial imaging and correlates closely with 201tl for initial postexercise myocardial uptake and defect reversibility. defect reversibility appears to result from differential myocardial clearance from normal and ischemic regions.
the risk for systemic vascular diseases and mortality in patients with central retinal vein occlusion. in this cross-sectional study, the authors evaluated 197 patients diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion (crvo) at the wilmer ophthalmological institute between 1980 and 1985 to determine the risk of systemic disease and mortality. complete follow-up information for mortality was obtained in 191 (97%). national health interview survey (nhis) patients and wilmer cataract patients formed two comparison groups. the prevalence of hypertension was significantly elevated in the crvo cases when compared with both comparison groups (p less than 0.03, 0.005). the prevalence of diabetes mellitus was increased in crvo cases in comparison with the nhis group (p less than 0.005). the prevalence of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease was the same for all three groups, as was overall mortality. mortality was not increased in crvo cases as compared with united states mortality rates.
treatment of advanced-stage massive mediastinal hodgkin's disease: the case for combined modality treatment. in the initial series of 198 patients treated at the national cancer institute (nci) with mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (mopp) chemotherapy for hodgkin's disease, a review of presenting chest radiographs available on 192 of these patients showed 49 patients with mediastinal masses greater than one third the greatest posteroanterior chest diameter. five patients had stage iib disease, and 44 had stage iii or iv disease. thirty-five (71%) patients achieved a complete remission with mopp chemotherapy. fourteen (40%) of the complete responders relapsed, but four of these achieved durable remissions in response to subsequent therapy. thirty (61%) patients have died (14 induction failures, nine relapsed patients, seven complete responders in remission). thus, with a median follow-up of 20 years (range, 15 to 23), the overall survival for the group is 39%, and the disease-free survival for the complete responders is 60%. a subset of 10 patients received mantle radiation therapy after maximal response to mopp. one of these patients failed to achieve complete remission, but among the nine complete responders only one has relapsed. in contrast, 13 of 26 (50%) patients achieving a complete response to mopp alone have relapsed (p2 = .0536). although mopp alone was not prospectively compared with mopp plus radiation therapy in the treatment of advanced-stage massive mediastinal hodgkin's disease in this series, the retrospective analysis shows a nearly significant difference in disease-free survival favoring combined modality treatment. the difference in tumor mortality between mopp-treated (44%) and combined modality-treated patients (80%) was also nearly significant (p2 = .055). however, overall survival differences between patients treated with mopp alone and those treated with combined modality therapy were not significantly different (p2 = 0.23) because of the mortality related to late complications of combined modality treatment.
equal parental origin of chromosome 22 losses in human sporadic meningioma: no evidence for genomic imprinting. inactivation of tumor suppressor genes can occur either by mutation at the gene locus or by loss of part or all of the chromosome region containing the gene. the latter is most frequently detected by dna markers as loss of heterozygosity in the tumor tissue. in several reports, the paternal homologue was preferentially retained in embryonal tumors associated with loss of particular chromosomal regions, suggesting genomic imprinting of the corresponding tumor suppressor loci. to explore the generality of these findings and the possible role of genomic imprinting in adult tumors of the nervous system, we have determined the parental origin of chromosome 22 loss in sporadic meningioma. of nine cases studied, five tumors retained the maternally derived chromosome 22 homologue while four retained the paternally derived chromosome 22. thus, in contrast to the embryonal tumors, the meningioma locus on chromosome 22 is inactivated by random mutation in sporadic adult meningiomas.
the de vega tricuspid annuloplasty. perioperative mortality and long term follow-up. one hundred and fifty-three patients undergoing de vega tricuspid annuloplasty, with or without other associated cardiac procedures between january, 1979, and june, 1987, were evaluated. there were 136 hospital survivors. the follow-up was 98.1% complete for a mean of 3.7 years/patient. operative mortality was 11.1%; preoperative nyha class and length of cpb were significant risk factors of perioperative mortality. the actuarial survival of operative survivors at 9 years was 73.5 +/- 11.8%. there were 7 late cardiac deaths among a total of 12 late deaths. eleven patients required reoperation (2.1 +/- 0.6% patient-year). in seven patients it was necessary for recurrence of tricuspid regurgitation; six of these had also a mitral prosthesis malfunction or a periprosthetic leak. residual tricuspid regurgitation was judged as mild, moderate or severe in 29.9%, 11.9% and 4.3% of the patients respectively. de vega tricuspid annuloplasty is the method of choice for mild and moderate tricuspid insufficiency; in selected cases, with a more severe degree of regurgitation, better results could be achieved with a different surgical approach.
biliary and pancreatic metastases of breast carcinoma: is surgical palliation indicated? obstructive jaundice developed in a patient concomitantly with the diagnosis of breast carcinoma. abdominal exploration disclosed a metastatic tumor in the head of the pancreas, the distal bile duct, and the gallbladder. a cholecystectomy and choledochojejunostomy were performed and later, because of intestinal obstruction, the patient underwent gastrojejunostomy. pathological examination demonstrated metastatic lobular carcinoma of breast with strongly positive staining for estradiol. additional hormonal therapy has been given to the patient since the operation. the patient is alive 16 months after the diagnosis of her disease. this case suggests that a vigorous diagnostic approach should be adopted in every jaundiced patient with metastatic breast cancer in order to exclude causes of jaundice other than diffuse metastatic involvement of the liver. patients with extrahepatic biliary metastasis should be treated by aggressive surgical treatment, combined with systemic therapy which can offer them significant palliation and better survival.
a rodent model of cirrhosis, ascites, and bacterial peritonitis. we sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop. of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity, 38 (92.7%) developed cirrhosis with ascites. of these 38, 21 (55.3%) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization. no surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat; therefore, the infections were presumed to be "spontaneous." eight (50%) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism. escherichia coli and proteus sp. were the organisms most commonly isolated. this rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans. this model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis.
subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown etiology: early prognostic factors for long-term functional capacity. forty-one patients suffering subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of unknown etiology were re-investigated at an average of 91 months after the bleed to determine functional capacity. nineteen patients were performing at their previous level of work, five were employed part-time, and four could not work due to the sah. five patients showed a moderate disability in activities of daily living but were not dependent on help, one patient was severely disabled, and two had died. there was one rebleed. early prognosis of an unfavorable outcome was possible on the basis of three clinical variables on admission: a history of hypertension, a hunt and hess grade of greater than ii, and the presence of focal neurological deficits. in addition, the presence of an organic mental syndrome at discharge was identified as a predictive factor for reduced functional capacity later on. other clinical variables in the acute stage, including sex, age, history of headache, interval between sah and admission, impaired consciousness, and cognitive deficits, were not related to a limited functional level. residual neurological deficits and the glasgow outcome scale score on discharge were also not predictive of restrictions in global functions evaluated by means of the karnofsky performance scale status at follow-up review.
long-term results of the belsey mark iv antireflux operation in relation to the severity of esophagitis a retrospective analysis of the results of the belsey mark iv operation has been conducted, relating these to the degree of esophagitis present preoperatively. analysis of 89 patients showed a 91.7% success rate in patients without esophagitis. good results diminished steadily as the severity of esophagitis increased, giving 76.5%, 75%, 66.7%, and 50% success rates for first-, second-, third-, and fourth-degree esophagitis, respectively. we believe that shortening of the esophagus is an important factor in this. shortening is obvious in third- and fourth-degree esophagitis but subtle in first- and second-degree esophagitis. we conclude that the belsey operation is adequate for patients without esophagitis, but for patients with any degree of esophagitis more effective reflux control is needed.
effect of closing dead space on incidence of seroma after mastectomy. seromas are a significant cause of morbidity after modified radical mastectomy. the effect of closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal (48 hours postoperatively) of closed suction drains on formation of the seroma was evaluated prospectively in 37 patients. thirty-three underwent modified radical mastectomy for invasive carcinoma while four underwent total mastectomy with a level 1 axillary dissection for multifocal intraductal carcinoma. seromas occurred in three, all were minor, two required one aspiration only and one required two aspirations. two were seromas of the lower flap while one was an axillary seroma. except for one patient who had a wound hematoma develop, no other instances of morbidity were noted. closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal of closed suction drains is associated with a low incidence of seroma formation after mastectomy. use of this technique has important economic and clinical implications for patients who had mastectomy.
anterior acromioplasty for treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome. between 1975 and 1979, anterior acromioplasty was performed in 65 patients with 66 involved shoulders. the procedure appears to be safe and reasonably effective. of the 65 patients in this study, 50 had chronic tendon inflammation with fibrosis, and 16 also had a small supraspinatus tendon tear. these 16 had rotator cuff repairs. twenty-six patients were also treated with distal clavicle excision, and seven had tenodesis of the long head of the biceps brachii. the average age of the patients was 50 years (range, 23-75 years). all patients were followed for an average of eight years (range, three to 13 years). at final evaluation, no or slight pain was present in 77% of the shoulders: 39 of 50 without tendon tearing and 12 of 16 with tendon tearing and repair. active shoulder abduction averaged 167 degrees. ninety-two percent returned to employment, including 18% with some job modification. eighty-six percent returned to recreational athletics, 20% with some modification of activities. seven patients had additional surgical treatment. the progression of rotator cuff disease is not always prevented, but the need for subsequent shoulder treatment generally decreases.
response of the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome to treatment of associated small-cell lung carcinoma. we evaluated the outcome in 16 patients with lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome (lems) associated with histologically verified small-cell carcinoma (scc). thirteen patients received specific tumor therapy (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or resection) and most also received pharmacologic and immunologic treatment for lems. seven of 11 patients surviving for more than 2 months after tumor therapy showed substantial neurologic improvement (1 patient being in complete remission at 7 years); in 3 of 11 improvement was transient. an emg index of disease severity (compound muscle action potential amplitude in abductor digiti minimi) was significantly increased at final follow-up (p less than 0.01; n = 11). a pretreatment amplitude greater than 3.0 mv was a good prognostic sign. we conclude that a combined treatment approach in scc-lems usually results in neurologic improvement.
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients; 18 (60%) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 (33%) had multiple pulmonary symptoms. in 14 patients (47%), abnormalities were found on examination of the chest. in 16 chest roentgenograms (53%), there was at least 1 abnormality: right-sided pleural effusion (9 patients) and elevated right hemidiaphragm (8 patients) were the most common. all patients were treated with metronidazole (flagyl) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease. pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess. the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis. pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess.
progress report of the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study. the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study recently found and reported (spaf investigators, n engl j med, 1990;322:863-868) a beneficial effect of both warfarin and aspirin compared with placebo in the primary prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. among warfarin-eligible patients, the event rates were 1.6%/yr for those receiving active antithrombotic therapy (warfarin or aspirin) and 8.3%/yr for those receiving placebo (p less than 0.00005) (risk reduction 81%, 95% confidence interval 56-91). ironically, we did not find a beneficial effect of aspirin in warfarin-ineligible patients. on the basis of these results, the study has been reshaped to directly compare these two antithrombotic agents. insight into the apparent aspirin unresponsiveness noted in some patients also is being sought. interpretation of the preliminary results and the reshaping of the study have been made more complex by the continued blinding of the investigators to certain portions of the data. presented is an account of the study from its inception through its recent redesign.
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period, 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit. abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses, including trisomy 18 (n = 16), trisomy 13 (n = 1), triploidy (n = 1) and translocation down's syndrome (n = 2). all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts.
behavioral modification of colonic function. can constipation be learned? we challenged the two hypotheses: first, that defecation can be suppressed for an extended time, and second, if so, that this has an effect on upper colonic motility. thus we studied 12 male volunteers with conditions of identical nutrition and patterns of physical activity over a two-week period, where one week with normal defecation and one week with voluntary prolonged suppression of defecation followed each other in randomized order. frequencies of defecation, stool weights, total and segmental colonic transit times (using radiopaque markers) were compared. frequency of defecations and stool weights were lower during suppressed defecation [8.9 +/- 0.66 vs 3.7 +/- 0.41 (mean +/- se) bowel movements per week, p = 0.003, and 1.30 +/- 0.09 vs 0.98 +/- 0.13 kg/week, p = 0.01]. total transit times were increased from 28.8 +/- 4.4 to 53.1 +/- 4.3 hr, p = 0.004. segmental transit times were increased in the rectosigmoid (from 8.83 +/- 3.6 to 32.1 +/- 5.6 hr, p = 0.04) and right hemicolon (from 14.5 +/- 0.9 hr to 19.7 +/- 1.5 hr, p = 0.02) by suppression of defecation. we conclude that defecation habits may induce changes in colonic function such as those seen in constipation and that functional anorectal outlet obstruction may, probably by reflex mediation, affect the right colon.
selective spatial attention in patients with visual extinction. the present study was designed to verify the attentional performance of patients with parietal lesions in the experimental condition in which they had to pay attention to 3 spatial positions located on the left, on the right and directly above the fixation stimulus (experiment 1) and to only 1 of the 3 spatial positions at a time (experiment 2). twelve patients (6 subjects with right parietal lesions and 6 subjects without neurological deficits) participated in the experiment. the results of experiment 1 showed that in patients with right parietal lesions the speed and accuracy of response to horizontally aligned stimuli increased gradually from right to left, whereas the control group showed only the effect due to the different retinal eccentricities of the 3 stimuli, that is, responses to central stimuli were faster and more accurate than responses to left and right stimuli. the results of experiment 2 showed that both the neurological and control groups were faster to respond to central than to left and right stimuli, and that the neurological group was faster to respond to right than left stimuli, whereas no difference in rts between two visual fields was obtained in the control group. furthermore, when the patients had to respond to 3 spatial locations aligned horizontally (experiment 1), the speed and accuracy of response to the right stimulus were the same as when they had to focus attention on it (experiment 2). these results showed that the focus of attention in patients with visual extinction is on the rightmost stimulus and that the increased attention to the right is accompanied by a decreased attention to the left.
retroviral transformation of cerebral microvascular endothelial cells: macrophage-like and microvascular endothelial cell properties. we report that l-cell-conditioned medium (lcm) transforms porcine cerebral microvascular (pcmv) endothelial cells into cells with macrophage-like properties. lcm is known to contain both cytokine(s) and the l-cell virus, a murine retrovirus found in the l929 cell and lcm. our evidence suggests that both lcm cytokine(s) and the l-cell virus are involved in this pcmv endothelial cell transformation. criteria for transformation include focus formation, decreased serum requirements for growth, changes in morphology including nonadherence, propagation in suspension culture, and a decreased growth response to stimulation with a known endothelial cell mitogen. macrophage-like characteristics of this transformed cell, designated as rvte, include pinocytosis of low-density lipoprotein, fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis, phagocytosis of bacteria and zymosan, the expression of macrophage enzyme markers, and constitutive production of colony-stimulating factor 1. however, the transformed cell retains several properties of the nontransformed cell including the expression of fviii:rag and in vitro self-organization into capillary-like structures. cloning of rvte cells clearly shows that both macrophage-like and cerebral microvascular endothelial cell properties are present in the same cell. during self-organization, nontransformed cells express morphologic and functional characteristics classically associated with the macrophage. these findings suggest that some brain capillary pathophysiologies could involve macrophage-like cerebral microvascular endothelial cells. furthermore, the "reticuloendothelial" phenotypic repertoire expressed by this transformed cerebral microvascular endothelial cell may show that the cerebral capillary endothelial cell in vivo is derived from a hematopoietic and/or phagocytic precursor.
tilt test for diagnosis of unexplained syncope in pediatric patients. thirty-five teenage patients with a history of presyncope or syncope underwent a passive head-up tilting to reproduce symptoms of syncope. if tilting alone did not induce syncope, isoproterenol infusion was given to increase heart rate to 150 to 160 beats per minute. in 80% of patients with a history of syncope, identical symptoms could be reproduced during tilting: an abrupt fall in blood pressure combined with profound nodal bradycardia, ranging from 32 to 86 beats per minute. these symptoms were quickly reversed by returning the patient to the supine position. for patients with frequent occurrences of syncope, especially when there was a history of trauma sustained during these episodes, a therapeutic regimen of either beta blockers or 9 alpha-fluorocortisol was begun. the mechanisms of this common cause of syncope in childhood is neurocardiogenic in response to venous pooling and catecholamine-induced tachycardia. the tilt test is an excellent and cost-effective test for the workup of unexplained syncope in childhood.
metastatic tumors of the umbilicus: a review 1830-1989. umbilical metastases from known and unknown primary cancers are rare. the eponym "sister mary joseph's nodule" has been used by generations of physicians. the first reports of this clinical sign were from walshe in 1846. a review of the literature revealed 265 cases from then until 1989. only 85 cases of umbilical metastasis from unknown primary tumors were found. this review should help us to focus on the common and uncommon primary sites in the diagnosis of patients with this finding. a single case report and the work-up for the hidden primary tumor are described.
glossopharyngeal schwannoma: review of five cases and the literature. glossopharyngeal schwannomas are rare tumors in spite of the fact that acoustic schwannomas account for 8%-10% of intracranial tumors. there have been 23 reported cases in the literature. this report of five cases is the largest series of these tumors. the presentation, radiological workup, operation, and long-term postoperative results will be presented, along with a review of the literature.
failure of transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery: case report. recurrent stenosis of the carotid arteries after a carotid endarterectomy for atherosclerosis can occur as a result of myointimal hyperplasia. this condition was treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. excellent dilatation of the vessel lumen was documented after balloon dilatation. a 6-month follow-up angiographic study, however, demonstrated recurrent high-grade stenosis at the same level in both carotid arteries. presumably, the failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery results in the same condition after the original endarterectomy, that is, additional myointimal hyperplasia.
correction of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency using two homografts. surgical correction of truncus arteriosus requires the creation of right ventricular to pulmonary artery continuity and closure of the ventricular septal defect. a variety of conduits have been used including valved and nonvalved. despite a significant incidence of truncal valvar stenosis and insufficiency, this valve has seldom been replaced. we present 4 cases of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency that were repaired using two valved homografts: one to create the pulmonary outflow tract and the other to replace the abnormal truncal valve. two of these patients are doing well after 4 months. another child survived the operation and did well for 2 months when she died suddenly. the last child died 14 hours postoperatively from low cardiac output syndrome secondary to diabetic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. when truncal valvar abnormalities are present, the primary repair of truncus arteriosus in an infant should include replacement of the truncal valve. total correction can be successfully achieved using two valved homografts, resulting in long-term palliation and freedom from thromboembolic events and the use of anticoagulants.
a dentofacial deformity associated with incontinentia pigmenti: report of a case. a case of ip in a 16-year-old girl has been presented. this patient manifested classic ectodermal and mesodermal anomalies. we present this case to illustrate a rare etiologic factor in the development of dentofacial deformities that can be treated in the conventional manner.
the effects of benazepril, a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in mild to moderate essential hypertension: a multicenter study. benazepril hydrochloride is a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. in a multicenter study, 206 patients with mild to moderate hypertension were randomized to receive benazepril at a dose of 2, 5, 10, or 20 mg, hydrochlorothiazide, 25 mg, or placebo once daily for 4 weeks. the 20 mg dosage of benazepril lowered blood pressure to a degree equal to that of 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide: -12.2/7.7 mm hg and -13.4/-7.5 mm hg, respectively. hydrochlorothiazide proved to be more effective in black subjects. at lower dosage levels of benazepril (2, 5, and 10 mg), blood pressure reduction was not significantly different from that with placebo. in those patients who failed to achieve goal diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm hg with monotherapy after 4 weeks, the addition of open-label hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg/day) to benazepril, hydrochlorothiazide, or placebo produced a substantial additional decrease in blood pressure over a 2-week period. no definite adverse effects on hematologic measurements, serum biochemistry test results, or urinalyses were noted. subjective adverse experiences were common in all groups but except in three or possibly four instances were not considered causally related to the study drug.
low doses of il-4 injected perilymphatically in tumor-bearing mice inhibit the growth of poorly and apparently nonimmunogenic tumors and induce a tumor-specific immune memory. the ability of ril-4 to trigger host reactivity against both a chemically induced fibrosarcoma (ce-2) and a spontaneous adenocarcinoma (ts/a) of balb/c mice was studied. daily local s.c. administration around tumor draining lymph nodes of 10 injections of progressive amounts (0.00001 to 1000 pg/day) of ril-4 induced appreciable inhibition of the growth of both tumors after a dose-response survival curve peaking at 0.1 pg/day. inasmuch as ril-4 has no direct antitumor activity, as shown by in vitro tests, host immune reactivity plays a fundamental role in this lymphokine activated tumor inhibition (lati). lati, in fact, is abolished when recipient mice are sublethally irradiated or treated with cyclosporin a, or when the reactivity of cd4+ lymphocytes is suppressed, whereas it is not affected by anti-asialo gm1 antibody. the morphologic data show that ril-4 lati rests on the recruitment of several cell reaction mechanisms, among which those that are nonspecific seem to predominate. ril-4 lati also leads to a state of long lasting and specific immune memory: the growth of a second contralateral tumor challenge is significantly impaired after lati. this immune memory takes place after lati of both the poorly immunogenic ce-2 fibrosarcoma and the ts/a adenocarcinoma, previously classed as nonimmunogenic on the basis of immunization-protection tests. in the latter case, adoptive transfer experiments show that thy-1+ lymphocytes and, in particular, the cd4 cell-depleted t lymphocyte subpopulation, are responsible for the immune memory. finally, the ability of ril-4 to trigger lati is greater than that of the most effective doses of ril-2, ril-1 beta, and ifn-gamma, whereas its association with ril-1 beta induces a more effective immune memory.
can heart failure be prevented, delayed, or reversed? a review of the clinical course of chronic heart failure demonstrates that current outcomes remain highly unsatisfactory both in mortality and perhaps more important in morbidity. the extraordinary satisfactory functional responses seen in patients who undergo cardiac transplantation clearly identify the primary cause as the status of the heart itself, whatever the pathophysiologic adjustments of the neuroendocrine system, and interventions of the wide variety of drugs. since donor hearts are unlikely to be available even from younger sufferers of these clinical syndromes, prevention must be the hallmark. protection of the viability of myocytes, such as in acute myocarditis and acute infarction, is essential. myocardial collagen undergoes continual synthesis, and production is greatly stimulated in the presence of hypertrophy caused by increased wall stress. it is possible that excess collagen is intimately involved with diastolic ventricular dysfunction, but that this may be a reversible process if the collagen-producing stimulus is removed. thus reduction in wall stress and reversibility of ventricular hypertrophy appear to be promising directions. however, to limit the catastrophic effects of chronic heart failure, early recognition of the precursors of these syndromes, prevention of progression, and surgical intervention in valvular heart disease at an optimal point in time are essential.
anal ulcerations due to cytomegalovirus in patients with aids. report of six cases. lesions due to cytomegalovirus (cmv) are frequent in the immunocompromised patient. this is particularly the case in patients with aids, where the colon and rectum are the regions most often involved. the authors report six cases of anal ulcerations due to cmv in patients with aids. these lesions, confirmed histologically, were either isolated or associated with other localizations. treatment is based on specific antiviral agents but resistance and recurrence can occur. the current report underlines the importance of histologic examination of anal lesions in hiv-infected subjects.
endothelin-like immunoreactivity in human breast cyst fluid. immunoreactive endothelin has been detected in 21 of 43 samples of breast cyst fluid (21 cases; 3.5 +/- 0.6 pmol/l, mean +/- sem. other 22 cases; not detectable, less than 0.5 pmol/l). fast protein liquid chromatographic analysis of the immunoreactive endothelin of pooled breast cyst fluid showed two immunoreactive peaks; one in the void volume and the other in the position of endothelin-1. it is probable that endothelin-1 is produced by the epithelial cells lining breast cysts, but significance of the presence of endothelin-1 in breast cyst fluid remains to be elucidated.
treatment of osteonecrosis of the femoral head by drilling and muscle-pedicle bone grafting. sixty-one patients with 68 osteonecrotic femoral heads, at different stages of development, were treated surgically; their average age was 36 years. necrosis followed a fracture in 43 hips and traumatic dislocation in three. it was idiopathic in 14, cortisone-induced in seven and associated with gout in one. the operation of multiple drilling, curettage of the necrotic bone and muscle pedicle bone grafting was performed in all. cheilectomy of the superolateral part of the femoral head and adductor tenotomy were added in cases of advanced necrosis. of the several types of muscle pedicle used, tensor fasciae latae anteriorly and quadratus femoris posteriorly were preferred. full weight-bearing was not permitted for five to six months. the follow-up period varied from three to 12 years. hip pain was regularly relieved and abduction and rotation of the joints were improved. those with post-traumatic or idiopathic necrosis did better than those with cortisone-induced necrosis.
lidocaine local anesthesia for arthroscopic knee surgery. forty-five patients were evaluated during knee arthroscopy performed using local anesthesia produced by lidocaine with epinephrine to determine the dose-response relationship for operative analgesia. serum lidocaine concentrations were also measured. patients were randomized prospectively to receive 20 ml of 0.5%, 1.0%, or 1.5% lidocaine with epinephrine intraarticularly. intraoperative discomfort was measured by verbal response on an 11-point linear pain scale. pain scores were significantly higher in patients receiving 0.5% lidocaine during the first 45 min of surgery (p = 0.03). after 45 min, pain scores continued to be higher in the 0.5% lidocaine group than in the 1.0% or 1.5% groups, but the differences were not statistically significant. ninety-four percent of patients in the 1.5% lidocaine group were willing to repeat this anesthetic technique for surgery compared with 83% of those in the 1.0% lidocaine group and 75% of those in the 0.5% lidocaine group (p greater than 0.05). the duration of postoperative analgesia was similar in all groups. serum lidocaine concentrations before and 15, 30, 60, and 120 min after instillation of lidocaine were highest in the 1.5% lidocaine group with a peak concentration of 278 ng/ml. no patient had symptoms of lidocaine toxicity. we recommend that lidocaine concentrations of 1.0% or 1.5% be used when 20 ml is instilled intraarticularly for knee arthroscopy based on patient comfort and absence of lidocaine toxicity.
treatment of spinal cord compression by epidural malignancy in childhood. epidural spinal cord compression by a malignant tumor is a rare occurrence in children. both the tumors involved and the extent of involvement of the vertebral column are different in children and adults. often, the epidural tumor in a child is identified before significant spinal canal compromise has occurred, and these children frequently can be managed by radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy. there is a group of children, however, who have severe spinal canal encroachment by a tumor, as evidenced by a near complete or complete block on myelography. in this study, we report a group of patients with severe spinal cord compression, as documented by imaging studies. we compared the results of a decompressive laminectomy and subtotal tumor resection followed by adjuvant therapy with the results obtained with radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy alone. thirty-three patients met the criteria for inclusion in the study. twenty-six were treated with a laminectomy and adjuvant therapy, and 7 were treated without surgical intervention. with surgical therapy, 25 of 26 epidurals were either improved or stable, whereas 4 of 7 nonsurgical patients deteriorated. especially notable was a decrease in pain in the operative patients immediately after their procedure. there was no surgical mortality or morbidity. the results of this study indicate that children with severe spinal cord compression as evidenced by a near complete or complete block on myelography or filling of 50% or more of the spinal canal on magnetic resonance imaging are best treated by a combination of surgical decompression and tumor removal followed by adjuvant therapy.
results and complications of angioplasty in fibromuscular disease. percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta) was used to treat 66 patients with 85 renal artery stenoses due to fibromuscular dysplasia. the hypertension was refractory to medical management in 46 patients, and the initial success rate was 100%. clinical follow-up has been obtained in all patients, who were followed for as long as 121 months. the recurrence rates were 8% of lesions and 10% of patients. cumulative patency rate predicted for 10 years was 87.07%. the mean systolic pressure decreased by 52 mm hg and the mean diastolic pressure decreased by 35 mm hg in response to treatment. twenty-six patients (39%) were cured, 39 (59%) were classified as improved, and one (2%) did not respond to pta. fourteen of the patients also had elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels. renal function was improved in 86% of the patients and stabilized in 14% of the patients. analysis of the long-term results suggests that pta should be the initial treatment for choice of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia in the renal arteries.
the iris in williams syndrome. forty three children with williams syndrome and 124 control subjects had their eyes photographed. the photographs were examined by three ophthalmologists and four geneticists of varying experience. a stellate pattern was noted more often in the irides of patients with williams syndrome (51%) than in those of the control subjects (12%), and was more difficult to detect, or was absent, in heavily pigmented irides. we conclude that the stellate pattern is of diagnostic importance, particularly if the pattern is carefully defined and the clinician is experienced.
plasma vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentration determination in patients with diarrhea. determination of plasma levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (vip) has been used for screening patients with chronic diarrhea to identify potential neuroendocrine tumors. this 6-year blinded study from 1981 to 1986 examines the causes of elevated vip levels in patients. in healthy volunteers ( n = 144), vip concentrations ranged from 14 to 76 pg/ml (mean +/- se, 28 +/- 12), whereas in chronic renal failure, 4 of 34 patients or 12% [serum creatinine 4.5 - 9.0 mg/dl (397-795 mumols/l)] had an elevation to greater than 100 pg/ml. no patient with idiopathic hepatic cirrhosis (n = 12) had elevation of serum concentration of this peptide. among 588 consecutive unselected patients undergoing evaluation for chronic diarrhea (n = 362; 62%) or possible neuroendocrine tumor (n = 214; 36%), 23 patients (3.9%) had concentrations greater than 76 pg/ml. in this group, 5 patients had functioning (vip, 160-5975 pg/ml) and 5 had nonfunctioning (vip, 80-120 pg/ml) pancreatic islet cell carcinomas: all 10 patients had hepatic metastases. other known cases of elevated levels of vip, ranging from 80 to 340 pg/ml, included other neurogenic tumors (n = 3), small- bowel resection (n = 2), inflammatory bowel disease (n = 2), chronic renal failure (n = 1), and prolonged fasting (n = 1). patients with diarrhea in which vip-secreting tumors were identified had plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide concentrations greater than 140 pg/ml. in patients with chronic diarrhea, determination of plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide levels did identify tumors secreting this peptide, but the results from this referral institution did not show identification of these tumors early in their clinical course.
association of autoimmune hepatitis with hla-bw54 and dr4 in japanese patients. human leukocyte antigen-d region-related alleles (human leukocyte antigen dr and dq) and human leukocyte antigen class i alleles were typed serologically in 31 japanese patients with autoimmune hepatitis. these patients had increased serum levels of ast and igg, high titers of autoantibodies, no history of blood transfusion and were negative for hbsag and antibodies to hbc. three hundred eighty-six healthy subjects and 30 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis served as control groups. the frequency of dr4 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients (90.3%) than in healthy subjects (38.6%) and in cryptogenic chronic hepatitis patients (30%). the frequency of bw54 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients (45.2%) than in healthy subjects (10.9%). the risk to dr4-positive subjects for autoimmune hepatitis was 14.8 relative to healthy subjects. two of 31 patients (6.5%) with autoimmune hepatitis were positive for antibody to hepatitis c virus; both clearly satisfied criteria for autoimmune hepatitis and both had bw54 and dr4. this study revealed a highly significant association of autoimmune hepatitis with human leukocyte antigen bw54 and dr4 in japanese patients. among the dr4-positive patients with autoimmune hepatitis, no significant differences were seen between those positive or negative for bw54 with regard to clinical or laboratory data, relapse of disease or efficacy of prednisolone. thus human leukocyte antigen class ii alleles contribute to susceptibility and resistance to autoimmune hepatitis in japanese patients, with distinct racial differences from those in white patients.
nasal reconstruction with articulated irradiated rib cartilage. nasal structural reconstruction is a formidable task in cases where there is loss of support to both the nasal dorsum and tip. a multitude of surgical approaches and materials have been used for the correction of the saddle-nose deformity with varying degrees of success. articulated irradiated rib cartilage inserted through an external rhinoplasty approach was used to reconstruct nasal deformities in 18 patients over a 6-year period. simultaneous use of a midline forehead flap to reconstruct the overlying soft tissue was required in four cases. follow-up ranged from 1 to 6 years (mean, 2.8 years). results were rewarding in most cases with marked improvement in nasal support and airway. revision and/or replacement secondary to trauma or warping of the graft was required in four cases. none of the patients exhibited infection, extrusion, or noticeable resorption. a description of the surgical technique, review of all the cases, and recommendation for continued use of this graft material are discussed.
a prospective analysis of 1518 laparoscopic cholecystectomies. the southern surgeons club. background and methods. the southern surgeons club conducted a prospective study of 1518 patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy for treatment of gallbladder disease in order to evaluate the safety of this procedure. results. seven hundred fifty-eight operations (49.9 percent) were performed at academic hospitals, and 760 (50.1 percent) at private hospitals. in 72 patients (4.7 percent) the operation was converted to conventional open cholecystectomy; the most common reason for the change was the inability to identify the anatomy of the gallbladder as a result of inflammation in the region of this organ. a total of 82 complications occurred in 78 (5.1 percent) of the patients; this is comparable with the rates of 6 to 21 percent that have been reported for conventional cholecystectomy. overall, the most common complication was superficial infection of the site of insertion of the umbilical trocar. a total of seven injuries to the common bile duct or the hepatic duct occurred during the operation, for a rate of 0.5 percent. four of the seven injuries were simple lacerations, which were repaired after conversion to conventional cholecystectomy. the incidence of bile-duct injury in the first 13 patients operated on by each surgical group was 2.2 percent, as compared with 0.1 percent for subsequent patients. no complications were attributed directly to either cautery or laser-surgical technique, and similar numbers of complications occurred in academic and private hospitals. the mean hospital stay for the entire group was 1.2 days (range, 6 hours to 30 days). conclusions. the results of laparoscopic cholecystectomy compare favorably with those of conventional cholecystectomy with respect to mortality, complications, and length of hospital stay. a slightly higher incidence of biliary injury with the laparoscopic procedure is probably offset by the low incidence of other complications.
oral manifestations of hiv infection and their management. i. more common lesions. oral lesions are common at all stages of hiv infection. this first of two articles reviews the clinical features and pathogenesis of common oral manifestations of hiv disease (candidiasis, hairy leukoplakia, kaposi's sarcoma, and hiv-related periodontal disease) and considers current treatment measures.
chronic anal fissure. a new method of treatment by anoplasty. chronic anal fissure is a common condition usually treated by maximal anal dilatation or lateral subcutaneous sphincterotomy. the following method is based on a common surgical principal; to widen a stenosed tube a longitudinal incision is made across the stenosed area and this is sutured transversely as in pyloroplasty. this method of anoplasty is simple and appears to have no resultant complications. further studies are necessary before its value can be established compared to the presently accepted methods of treatment.
recurrence of duodenal ulcer and elevated serum pepsinogen i levels in smokers and nonsmokers. we determined serum pepsinogen i (pg i) levels by radioimmunoassay in 472 patients with duodenal ulcer and 141 normal subjects to investigate whether serum pg i levels were related to cigarette smoking, and in 225 patients to determine whether the recurrence of duodenal ulcer was related to serum pg i levels or cigarette smoking. serum pg i levels were not influenced by cigarette smoking in either patients with duodenal ulcer or normal subjects. the recurrence rate of duodenal ulcer not under maintenance therapy was significantly higher in hyperpg i patients than in normopg i patients, regardless of their smoking habits. only in hyperpg i patients was the recurrence rate in smokers higher than in nonsmokers. patients under maintenance therapy showed similar results. multilogistic regression indicated that hyperpg i had a greater effect than cigarette smoking on ulcer recurrence. these findings indicate that serum pg i levels are not influenced by smoking, and the important characteristic in patients with recurrent duodenal ulcers is the increased serum pg i levels.
nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities in primary uveal melanoma. we report on 14 cases of clonal chromosomal anomalies in patients with primary uveal melanoma. an increased dosage of chromosome 8 or of parts of the long arm of chromosome 8 (8q) were detected in eight patients (57%). the smallest multiplied area of 8q appeared to be the region 8q2.1----qter. monosomy of chromosome 3 was seen in six patients (43%), five of which were associated with anomalies of chromosome 8. increased dosage of parts of chromosome 8q and loss of heterozygosity of chromosome 3, or the combination of both, seemed to be nonrandom for uveal melanoma and may distinguish it genetically from cutaneous malignant melanoma. anomalies of chromosome 6, mostly resulting in additional material of 6p or a deletion of 6q, were found in six patients (43%). these anomalies, which seem to be common features of cutaneous malignant melanoma, were considered secondary rather than primary changes in uveal melanoma, since they were present only in subclones in most cases. loss of the y chromosome, restricted to tumor cells, was detected in four male patients, and loss of one x chromosome was detected in a female patient.
antiepileptic drugs, cognitive function, and behavior in children: evidence from recent studies. the effects of antiepileptic drugs (aeds) on cognitive function and behavior in children are reviewed on the basis of published studies. individual aeds have been shown to differ--the deleterious effects of phenytoin generally contrasting with the relatively minimal effects of valproate and carbamazepine. some of the differences between results may be attributed to the psychological tests used and to age differences. however, there appears to be a dissociation between aeds that affect higher cognitive function, e.g., phenytoin, and those mainly affecting motor function, e.g., carbamazepine, which appears to increase speed of performance, aeds should be prescribed with care in children with epilepsy, taking account of their differing effects on cognitive function and behavior.
squamous metaplasia of the peritoneum. the capacity of the peritoneal serosa to undergo metaplasia to mullerian-type epithelium is well recognized. we report a case of squamous metaplasia of the peritoneum that was studied by light microscopy. immunohistochemical techniques, and electron microscopy. the pathogenesis of peritoneal squamous metaplasia is obscure, but may be a response to chronic irritation.
monitoring enzyme replacement treatment in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency using the cholesteryl octanoate breath test. the cholesteryl-14c-octanoate breath test was used to monitor the intraluminal enzymatic activity of pancreatin preparations in six patients with severe pancreatic insufficiency. conventional enzyme replacement, with cimetidine as an adjunct, was compared to supplementation with enteric coated microspheres. in healthy control subjects, 14co2 excretion rose rapidly and peaked at 90-120 minutes; mean (sd) cumulative recovery at four hours was 51 (8)%. in patients with pancreatic insufficiency on no treatment mean (sd) cumulative recovery was only 6 (4)%. after pancreatin, with previous administration of cimetidine, it increased to 27 (11)% with a time course resembling that in controls. with 2 mm enteric coated microspheres, 14co2 excretion did not rise significantly before 120 minutes and cumulative recovery after four hours was 15 (11)%. in a control study, 2 mm radio-opaque microspheres did not empty from the stomach until two hours after ingestion. the results suggest that the cholesteryl octanoate breath test can be successfully used to monitor the intraluminal enzymatic activity after treatment with different forms of enzyme replacement in pancreatic insufficiency. in contrast to treatment with conventional pancreatin and cimetidine as an adjunct, 2 mm enteric coated microspheres did not show in vivo enzymatic activity until two hours after administration.
audit of results of operations for infantile pyloric stenosis in a district general hospital because of the proposal that infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis should only be treated by surgeons with an interest in paediatric surgery, we carried out a retrospective study to audit our experience in a district general hospital. forty six infants over a five year period underwent pyloromyotomy. there were no deaths, and 36 infants (78%) made uneventful recoveries. perforation of the duodenal mucosa occurred during the operation in 11 patients, and eight complications developed in six of these infants. there were seven wound infections, and two patients had vomiting that lasted four days or longer after their operations. there were no long term feeding problems. the results of this study show that such patients can be successfully treated in district general hospitals, and three areas merit special attention: meticulous surgical technique, the use of prophylactic antibiotics, and early graduated feeding.
emergency department diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. study objectives: to assess the accuracy of the history and physical examination as compared to the addition of serum progesterone screening for ectopic pregnancy in women presenting to the emergency department. design: prospective, consecutive case series, n = 2,157. setting: ed of the regional medical center at memphis, a publicly subsidized, 450-bed acute care hospital staffed by residents and faculty of the university of tennessee, memphis. type of participants: all ed patients with a positive urine pregnancy test treated between january 1 and december 31, 1988. interventions: screening history, physical examination, and serum progesterone (p) and quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) titer. measurements: all discharged patients were given follow-up appointments within two weeks; those found to have a p less than 25 ng/ml were called to return for repeat hcg and transvaginal ultrasound. main results: one hundred sixty-one of 2,157 patients (7.5%) with a positive urine pregnancy test were found to have an ectopic pregnancy. all but five had a p of less than 25 ng/ml (sensitivity, 97%); four of these were admitted for immediate surgery because of symptoms. overall, the ed physician detected 89 of 161 ectopics (55.3%) on initial presentation, 53 (60%) of which were ruptured at the time of surgery. seventy-two patients (44.7%) who were discharged but later found to have an ectopic pregnancy had benign clinical presentations, including 41 with vaginal bleeding. there were no statistically significant differences in the presenting symptoms of patients with unruptured ectopics compared with normal intrauterine pregnancies. all but one of the 72 discharged patients were noted the following day to have a progesterone of less than 25 ng/ml and contacted to return. eight of these were found to have a ruptured ectopic at the time of surgery. only 91 of 161 patients (56.5%) with ectopic pregnancy acknowledged one or more clinical risk factors on follow-up questioning. conclusion: the standard history and physical examination, including those performed by gynecologic specialists, are insufficiently sensitive for early detection of unruptured ectopic pregnancy. eds with a high incidence of ectopic pregnancy should strongly consider implementation of a universal progesterone screening program to decrease unnecessary patient morbidity and the risk of mortality from undiagnosed ectopic pregnancy.
treatment of hypertension in the elderly: effects on blood pressure, heart rate, and physical fitness. the subjects were 36 hypertensive patients aged 61 to 79 years (mean, 66 years). after a placebo run-in period of one month, each patient was randomly assigned to two months of treatment with 100 mg of metoprolol, 50 mg of captopril, or 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide plus 2.5 mg of amiloride daily, or placebo. the doses were doubled if diastolic pressure was above 95 mm hg after one month of treatment. blood pressure, heart rate, and physical fitness (endurance during a standard cycle ergometer exercise) were measured and side effects assessed after each two-month treatment period. mean blood pressures were significantly lower after treatment with metoprolol (154/92 mm hg), captopril (157/92 mm hg), and hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride (152/91 mm hg) than after placebo (170/101 mm hg). heart rate was significantly lower after treatment with metoprolol (64 beats/minute) than after placebo (77 beats/minute). exercise endurance was lower after treatment with metoprolol (498 seconds) and hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride (519 seconds) than after placebo (529 seconds) and higher after captopril (541 seconds). more patients reached the target exercise work load after captopril than after the other treatments. no patients withdrew from treatment because of side effects or abnormal laboratory test results. all three active treatments benefited the elderly hypertensive patients and did not lower their physical fitness. captopril appeared to be more effective than the other two treatments.
small bile duct abnormalities in sarcoidosis. we report four patients with hepatic involvement of sarcoidosis manifested primarily by bile duct depletion. the patients developed fever, weight loss, anorexia, a markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase, and mildly abnormal serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed slight intrahepatic irregularities but were not diagnostic of sclerosing cholangitis. liver biopsy showed predominantly bile duct depletion, ranging from an estimated 10-100% absence of bile ducts in portal areas, which correlated with the degree of fibrosis. the degree of bile duct depletion is useful as a histological marker in patients with sarcoid liver disease. steroids improve symptoms, but do not inhibit the development of "ductopenia.".
a detachable balloon procedure for a traumatic internal carotid-internal jugular fistula: report of a case a case of a traumatic fistula between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein is reported. the fistula was treated by detachable balloon occlusion and clipping of the internal carotid artery.
familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex. a 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol, betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein b. computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem. of the six family members examined, four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia, and one had mild ataxia. similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives. this case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia, cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex.
long-term results following surgical management of aortic graft infection. between january 1970 and june 1988, a total of 45 patients with aortic prosthetic graft infection underwent removal of the infected aortic prosthesis. in addition, 36 of these patients also underwent revascularization via an extra-anatomic bypass. we analyzed the early and long-term results with respect to survival, limb salvage, freedom from infection, and extra-anatomic graft patency. the 30-day mortality was 24% (11/45), and the amputation rate was 11% (8/73). during a mean follow-up of 36 months (range, 2 to 144 months), 80% (24/30) of the patients remained free of infection and are considered cured. infection in the extra-anatomic bypass graft was the most common cause of recurrent sepsis and the leading cause of late amputations (four of seven). by life-table methods, 1-year survival was 63% and 5-year survival was 49%. limb salvage rates at 1 and 5 years were 79% and 66%, respectively. the primary patency rate of extra-anatomic bypass was 43% at 3 years, with the secondary patency rate improved to 65%. these early and late results are in marked contrast to the natural history of untreated aortic graft infection. nonetheless, a perioperative mortality rate of 24%, a 5-year limb loss rate of 33%, and 3-year graft thrombosis rate of 35% are testimony to the serious nature of aortic graft infection and the need to develop better methods to prevent this complication.
reduction of gastric ulcer recurrence after suppression of helicobacter pylori by cefixime. the effect on the recurrence of gastric ulcers after suppression of helicobacter pylori by combined treatment with cimetidine and the antimicrobial drug cefixime was investigated. twenty one of 43 patients with endoscopically proved gastric ulcer and h pylori infection were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks; the remaining 22 patients received cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks plus cefixime 100 mg daily for the last two weeks. after treatment, 88% of 17 patients on cimetidine only remained h pylori positive, whereas combined administration of cimetidine and cefixime had suppressed h pylori in 78% of 18 patients (p less than 0.05). seventeen patients in the former group whose ulcers healed but who remained h pylori positive and 18 patients in the latter group whose ulcers healed and who were no longer infected with h pylori continued to be followed after treatment. these patients underwent endoscopy to detect ulcer recurrence if symptomatic, or at 12 and 24 weeks if asymptomatic. at 12 weeks, recurrence was observed in seven of 15 (47%) patients in whom h pylori persisted, but in only one of 14 (7%) patients in whom h pylori had been suppressed (p less than 0.05). at 24 weeks, however, recurrence rates were similar between the two groups. these findings indicate that h pylori infection may be closely related to early ulcer recurrence.
liver pathology in morbidly obese patients with and without diabetes. the contribution of obesity and/or diabetes to liver pathology in the morbidly obese patient is controversial. we studied the liver biopsies of 100 consecutive patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity. multiple morphologic parameters were analyzed and graded independently, without knowledge of the clinical history, liver function tests, and oral glucose tolerance results of the patients. six percent of the entire group demonstrated no fat, 42% mild fat, 20% moderate fat, and 24% severe fatty metamorphosis of the liver. twenty-three percent of the patients had central vein fibrosis, 23% sinusoidal fibrosis, 19% bridging fibrosis, and 4% cirrhosis. thirty-six percent of the patients had some degree of steatohepatitis, 66% possessed so-called glycogen nuclei of hepatocytes, 6% had pas-positive thickening of blood vessels in the portal tracts, and 1% had lipogranulomas. the degree of fatty metamorphosis and fibrosis was analyzed in three separate groups, categorized by the glycemic status of the patient: 46 patients with normal glucose tolerance (ngt), 23 patients with impaired glucose tolerance (igt), and 31 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm). increasing severity of fatty metamorphosis from the normoglycemic obese to the diabetic obese patients was found, which was statistically significant by chi 2 analysis. four of the six patients showing no fatty metamorphosis were normoglycemic. glycogen nuclei and pas-positive blood vessels were significantly more prevalent in the diabetic obese than in the normal obese. in conclusion, the distribution of significant liver histopathology in the morbidly obese patient correlates in severity with the degree of impaired glycemic status.
effect of indecainide in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. indecainide, a new antiarrhythmic agent classified as type ic was evaluated in 11 patients with heart disease who had greater than or equal to 30 ventricular premature complexes/hour, moderate-to-marked left ventricular dysfunction, and mean ejection fraction 34% +/- 8%. patients received indecainide, 50 mg by mouth, every 6 hours and the dose was increased until greater than or equal to 80% suppression was noted, adverse effects occurred, or a maximum dose of 100 mg indecainide was given every 6 hours. ventricular premature complexes were suppressed greater than or equal to 80% in nine patients (p less than 0.05) and ventricular tachycardia episodes were completely suppressed in five of eight patients. the effective or maximal mean daily indecainide dose was 191 +/- 32 mg; half of the responders achieved achieved efficacy at serum drug concentration greater than or equal to 600 ng/ml. serum drug concentration was directly related to gender (r = 0.78, p less than 0.04) and inversely related to creatinine clearance (r = 0.74, p less than 0.05) and ejection fraction (r = 0.71, p less than 0.02). indecainide prolonged mean pr and qrs intervals (p less than 0.05) but not qt or qtc. there was a linear relation between percent change in pr (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001) and qrs (r = 0.66, p less than 0.001) intervals and serum drug concentration. after starting or increasing the dose, careful observation of patients with decreased renal function or reduced ejection fraction should be exercised because they attain higher drug concentration than normal subjects.
in vivo incorporation of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate into a rat metastatic brain-tumor model. lipid metabolism of an intracerebrally implanted brain tumor and normal brain was investigated in awake fischer 344 rats using intravenously injected [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate as a probe. a suspension of walker 256 carcinosarcoma cells (250 cells in 5 microliters medium), with or without 1% low-melting-point agar, was implanted into the caudate nucleus of rats 8 to 9 weeks old. control animals received an intracerebral injection without tumor cells. seven days after implantation, awake rats were infused intravenously for 5 minutes with [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate (6.4 mci/kg). the rats were killed 20 minutes after initiation of the infusion and coronal brain slices were obtained for quantitative autoradiography and light histological study. tumor cell masses were histologically well demarcated from the surrounding brain tissue. tumor tissue incorporation of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate was heterogeneous, ranging on average from 3.1- to 6.1-fold greater than in the corresponding contralateral brain. in addition, incorporation corresponded to regional tumor cell density. the incorporation rate constant of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate in tumor was significantly increased compared to control brain and was independent of tumor size. necrotic areas within tumors showed no incorporation of radiolabeled palmitate. brain surrounding the tumors and control injection sites showed reactive gliosis, and possessed 30% greater incorporation of [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate than contralateral normal brain. these results suggest that [9,10(-3)h]-palmitate can be used to image brain tumors in vivo, measuring turnover and/or synthesis of tumor and brain lipid.
incidence and prevalence of ulcerative colitis in the upper galilee, northern israel, 1967-1986. an epidemiological study of ulcerative colitis was performed in the upper galilee, israel, over a 20-yr period (1967-1986). the average annual incidence of ulcerative colitis was 2.23 per 100,000 population, and the prevalence on december 31, 1986, was 44.58 per 100,000. considering the fact that strict steps were taken to include only definite cases, these figures are probably an underestimation. an increase of the average annual incidence from 0.88 in the period 1967-1976 to 3.79 in 1977-1986 was found. when the data were stratified according to ethnic groups, the highest average annual incidence and the highest point prevalence was found in israeli-born jews (6.9 and 138.2 per 100,000 population, respectively). when jewish residence patterns were compared, the highest average annual incidence and point prevalence were found among kibbutz members (5.52 and 110.39, respectively), and the lowest (1.94 and 38.76) among moshav inhabitants. there were 10 arab patients with an average annual incidence of 0.96 and a point prevalence of 19.27. there were 25 women and 28 men (female:male ratio of 0.89). among the jews, the female:male ratio was 1.04. peak incidence was found in the 25- to 34-yr-old range. no second peak was noticed. anemia was demonstrated in 66.6% of the women and 27.5% of the men in our study. we suggest that the increase in uc incidence and prevalence in israeli and asia/africa-born jew and in arabs in the upper galilee points toward environmental factors in the etiology of this disease.
middle cerebral artery strokes causing homonymous hemianopia: positron emission tomography. eight patients were evaluated with 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography between 3 and 30 days after isolated stroke involving the middle cerebral artery territory that caused homonymous hemianopia. diffuse hypometabolism was present throughout the damaged cerebral hemisphere, even in cortical areas not obviously ischemic by clinical examination or neuro-imaging. glucose metabolism in primary and association visual cortex of the damaged hemisphere was decreased by more than 47% (p less than 0.01). metabolism in the undamaged hemisphere was less profoundly affected, but significant decrements were found in calcarine (40%; p less than 0.01) and lateral occipital cortex (35%; p less than 0.05).
prognostic significance of serosal invasion in carcinoma of the stomach. two hundred and seventy-seven patients with advanced carcinoma of the stomach invading the serosa were studied with regard to the relationship between the length of the serosal invasion (lsi) and prognosis, with a division made between expanding and infiltrative types of tumors. among patients with expanding types of tumors, five year survival rates were 40 per cent in patients with lsi less than 4.0 centimeters, 33 per cent in patients with lsi 4.1 to 6.0 centimeters and 13.0 per cent in patients with lsi more than 6.0 centimeters. among those patients with infiltrative types of tumors, those with less than 2.0 centimeters of lsi had a better prognosis (five year survival rate of 53 per cent), whereas those patients with a lsi more than 2.0 centimeters had a very poor prognosis (five year survival rate of less than 20 per cent) and the significant lsi on prognosis was found to be 2.0 centimeters. involvement of the lymph node and metastasis to the liver were not affected by lsi, whereas the rates of peritoneal dissemination and direct invasion to neighboring organs increased with an increase in lsi. knowledge of these factors facilitates the planning of postoperative treatment.
the munich gallbladder lithotripsy study. results of the first 5 years with 711 patients. objective: to evaluate the long-term results of three types of shock wave treatment in patients with radiolucent gallbladder stones. design: cohort study. setting: single-center trial. patients: of 5824 patients with gallstones, 19% were eligible; 711 patients were treated. interventions: patients received extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy as well as adjuvant therapy with bile acids. results: lithotripsy was done in three ways, using a water-tank lithotriptor (group a), a water-cushion lithotriptor at low energy levels (group b), and a water-cushion lithotriptor at high energy levels (group c). the rate of complete fragment clearance 9 to 12 months after lithotripsy was done differed significantly among the three groups: among patients with single stones of 20 mm or less in diameter, the rate of fragment clearance for group a was 76%; for group b, it was 60%; and for group c, it was 83% (p = 0.03). among patients with single stones of 21 to 30 mm, the rate of fragment clearance for group a was 63%; for group b, it was 32%; and for group c, it was 58% (p less than 0.005). among patients with two or three stones, the rate of fragment clearance for group a was 38%; for group b, it was 16%; and for group c, it was 46% (p = 0.01). patients with fragments of 3 mm or less 24 hours after lithotripsy was done showed a higher probability of fragment disappearance than did those with larger fragments (p less than 0.001). the clearance rate was higher in patients who were compliant than in those who were noncompliant with bile acid therapy (p less than 0.001). adverse effects included liver hematoma in 1 patients, biliary pain attacks in 253 patients (36%), mild biliary pancreatitis in 13 patients (2%), and cholestasis in 7 patients (1%). elective cholecystectomy was done in 16 patients (2%), and endoscopic sphincterotomy was done in 4 patients (1%). conclusions: the rate of complete disappearance of stones after shock wave therapy depends on the size and the number of the initial stones, the diameter of the largest fragment, and the mode of shock wave treatment. adjuvant therapy with bile acids appears to be important for complete fragment clearance.
a randomized trial comparing two methods of cold knife conization with laser conization. in a randomized study, 62 women were submitted to cold knife conization with application of sturmdorf sutures, 60 to cold knife conization without sutures, and 61 to laser conization. early hemorrhage occurred in 1.6, 13.3, and 6.6% of women, respectively (p less than .05), and late hemorrhage in 15.3, 3.6, and 11.7%, respectively. considering early and late hemorrhage together, there was no significant difference among the three treatment groups. dysmenorrhea tended to be more common after application of sturmdorf sutures, as it was reported by 27.8, 13.2, and 14.3% of patients, respectively, but the difference was not statistically significant. dysmenorrhea occurred in 13% of the cases with a cone height of 20 mm or less and in 26% of the cases with a cone height greater than 20 mm (p less than .05). endocervical cells were present significantly more often after sampling with a cytobrush than with a cotton swab (p less than .0001), whereas the method of conization had no influence. in smears obtained with a cytobrush, endocervical cells were present in 88.0, 84.9, and 82.5% of the cases; in smears obtained with a cotton swab, endocervical cells were present in 46.6, 57.7, and 54.5%, respectively. we conclude that cold knife conization without sturmdorf sutures is about equal to laser conization in overall complications, but the laser is preferable for outpatient treatment because of a lower frequency of early hemorrhage. sturmdorf sutures should be avoided. smears at follow-up should be taken with a cytobrush and a wooden spatula.
left ventricular passive diastolic properties in chronic mitral regurgitation. background. in chronic mitral regurgitation, the myocardium responds to the increased filling volume by geometric alteration and eccentric hypertrophy. this study was designed to evaluate the effects of a pure volume overload on left ventricular diastolic chamber and myocardial properties and to assess the relation of passive diastolic function to systolic ejection performance. methods and results. by use of simultaneous cineangiography and left ventricular micromanometry, left ventricular passive diastolic stiffness was evaluated in nine normal controls (group 1), 14 patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and a normal ejection fraction (greater than or equal to 57%, group 2), and 13 patients with mitral regurgitation and a reduced ejection fraction (less than 57%, group 3). passive diastolic function was evaluated by using a three-constant elastic model. left ventricular chamber properties were represented by the relation of pressure to volume; myocardial properties were evaluated by relating myocardial midwall stress to midwall strain. the constant of left ventricular chamber stiffness was decreased in group 2 compared with controls (p less than 0.05) but it was normal in group 3. the constant of myocardial stiffness was increased in group 3 compared with groups 1 and 2 (p less than 0.01). among patients with mitral regurgitation, there was a significant inverse relation between ejection fraction and the constant of myocardial stiffness (r = -0.83). conclusions. the chronic adaptation to volume overload in chronic mitral regurgitation tends to decrease left ventricular chamber stiffness. patients with mitral regurgitation and a depressed ejection fraction demonstrated diastolic myocardial dysfunction. compromised diastolic function in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and reduced systolic performance may contribute to the clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure.
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome. we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage. each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia. none had hemimegalencephaly. we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients.
keratin subsets in spindle cell sarcomas. keratins are widespread but synovial sarcoma contains a distinctive keratin polypeptide pattern and desmoplakins. the presence of individual keratin polypeptides and desmoplakins was immunohistochemically studied in 25 spindle cell sarcomas of different types using acetone-fixed frozen sections. results revealed that keratins 8 and 18 were present in a high number of tumors: 9 of 9 synovial sarcomas, 5 of 7 leiomyosarcomas, 5 of 5 malignant schwannomas, and 1 of 4 undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas. in addition to keratins 8 and 18, the glandular component of synovial sarcoma showed prominent reactivity with antibodies to keratins 7 and 19. also the glandular epithelial cells in synovial sarcoma showed desmoplakin immunoreactivity preferentially in a luminal distribution, but desmoplakin was absent in other spindle cell sarcomas. furthermore keratin 13 was seen focally in 4 of 9 synovial sarcomas. in contrast, keratins 7, 13, and 19 were practically absent in leiomyosarcomas, malignant schwannomas, and undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas. the widespread presence of keratins 8 and 18 in various spindle cell sarcomas may reflect aberrant keratin expression in mesenchymal cells, previously described in cultured transformed fibroblasts. the presence of keratins 7 and 19 and desmoplakin is highly associated with morphologically observable epithelial differentiation restricted to synovial sarcoma among spindle cell sarcomas.
surgical treatment of hydatid disease of the liver. a 20-year experience. the medical records of 135 consecutive patients (74 women and 61 men) who underwent surgery for hydatid liver disease were reviewed. the patients ranged in age from 4 to 81 years. twenty-seven patients had undergone previous surgery for hydatid liver disease. cysts were solitary in 100 patients and multiple in 35 patients. seventeen patients had concomitant extrahepatic disease. conservative procedures were used in 71 patients (capitonnage in 50 patients and partial pericystectomy in 21 patients). radical procedures were used in 64 patients (total pericystectomy in 35 patients, subtotal pericystectomy in 16 patients, and wedge or major liver resection in 13 patients). operative mortality was 2.2% and morbidity rate was 23.7%. recurrent disease was found in 13 patients at a mean interval of 3 years from the first operation. better short- and long-term results were obtained with the use of radical procedures.
albumin absorption and protein secretion by the gallbladder in man and in the pig. to study albumin absorption by the gallbladder in man, an in vitro model was first established in the pig and compared with in vivo function in the same species. water and electrolyte transport and 125i-albumin absorption and protein secretion in vivo and in vitro were compared. then similar in vitro studies were performed on human gallbladders obtained at surgery. the in vivo study in the pig was performed without disturbing the gallbladder except to tie a cannula in the cystic duct end. the in vitro model was identical in the pig and human gallbladders. gallbladders were excised using a technique causing minimal injury and anoxia. they were oxygenated on both mucosal and serosal surfaces in a temperature-controlled environment. luminal and external bath test solutions consisted of modified ringers bicarbonate with added glucose; luminal solutions also contained 125i-albumin from different species, depending on the study. active absorption of sodium and water occurred in both types of studies in the pig but in vivo absorption rates were considerably greater than in vitro rates. albumin absorption in vivo was substantial; although present in vitro, the absorption of albumin was diminished relatively more than electrolyte transport rates. protein secretion rates into the gallbladder were similar in vitro and in vivo. the results of studies in the human gallbladders in vitro were similar to the pig, except albumin absorption was greater. some human gallbladders were obtained from control patients and some from patients with cholesterol gallstones. there were no significant differences between the two groups for any of the variables studied; however, the numbers were small and some control gallbladders were not normal gallbladders.
cutaneous angiolipoleiomyoma. we describe eight cases of cutaneous angiolipoleiomyoma, a rare tumor previously reported only once under the term cutaneous angiomyolipoma. clinically, the tumors were acquired, solitary, asymptomatic nodules that were always acral in location. patients' ages ranged from 33 to 77 years (median 52.6 years); the male/female ratio was 7:1. signs of tuberous sclerosis or renal angiomyolipoma were absent in all cases. histologically, the tumors were subcutaneous, well circumscribed, and composed of smooth muscle, vascular spaces, connective tissue, and mature fat. in some tumors the fat was the predominant component, and in others smooth muscle predominated. elastic tissue stains revealed that some blood vessels had developed an elastic lamina whereas other blood vessels lacked it. additional histologic features occasionally observed included vascular thrombi, glomus bodies, and focal mucin deposition.
regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression by hepatitis b virus in hepatocellular carcinoma. in this study we investigated the regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression to explain a role for this growth factor in concert with hepatitis b virus involvement in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis. sections of normal liver and tumor and non-tumor-bearing liver disease tissue were hybridized in situ with [35s]-labeled insulin-like growth factor ii oligonucleotide probe. parallel sections were tested for presence of insulin-like growth factor ii polypeptide using immunohistochemistry. to investigate a possible role for hepatitis b virus in insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma, results were analyzed against patient seropositivity for hepatitis b virus. levels of insulin-like growth factor ii transcripts in normal liver (n = 4) sections and in those from non-tumor-bearing individuals (n = 10) were so low that specific signal was not detectable above homogeneous tissue background. in contrast, 4 of 8 (50%) of the sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhosis or noncirrhotic chronic liver disease with hepatitis b virus involvement showed increased expression of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts. up-regulation was observed in cell foci in the hepatocellular regions of the surrounding cirrhotic lobular cells and the fibrous septa. numerous cell foci were observed in patch distribution in the tumor areas. the level of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts in sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhotic and noncirrhotic tissues obtained from patients seronegative for hepatitis b virus was similar to that of normal liver.
the mouse insulin-like growth factor type-2 receptor is imprinted and closely linked to the tme locus. t-associated maternal effect (tme) is the only known maternal-effect mutation in the mouse. the defect is nuclear-encoded and embryos that inherit a deletion of the tme locus from their mother die at day 15 of gestation. there are many genomically imprinted regions known in the mouse genome but so far no imprinted genes have been cloned. the tme locus is absent in two chromosome-17 deletion mutants, thp and the tlub2, and its position has been localized using these deletions to a 1-cm region. we report here that the genes for insulin-like growth factor type-2 receptor (igf2r) and mitochondrial superoxide dismutase-2 (sod-2) are absent from both deletions. probes for these genes and for plasminogen (plg) and t-complex peptide 1 (tcp-1) were used in pulsed-field gel mapping to show that tme must lie within a region of 800-1,100 kb. we also demonstrate that embryos express igf2r only from the maternal chromosome, and that tcp-1, plg and sod-2 are expressed from both chromosomes. therefore igf2r is imprinted and closely linked or identical to tme.
progressive coronary luminal narrowing after cardiac transplantation. accelerated coronary disease is a major factor limiting long-term survival in cardiac transplant recipients. coronary angiography was obtained a mean of 5.1 weeks posttransplantation and annually thereafter. replicate projections recorded after nitroglycerine administration were quantitated using computer-assisted edge detection. five hundred and fifteen coronary segments in 25 patients having 1-year follow-up and 353 segments in 18 patients reaching 2-year follow-up were compared with baseline angiograms. significant change was defined as +/- 0.10 mm, equal to 3.8% change in diameter based on three standard deviations obtained from estimation of measurement error. mean coronary diameter fell from 2.44 +/- 0.26 mm at baseline to 2.21 +/- 0.34 mm (p less than 0.001) at 1-year follow-up. this rate of diameter decline was 20-fold more rapid during the initial posttransplantation year than the rate of change of visually normal segments in nontransplant patients with coronary atherosclerosis elsewhere. there was no significant drop in mean diameter between the first and second year in those patients who had second-year studies. decrease in absolute diameter for vessels greater than 2.9 mm significantly exceeded diameter reduction for smaller vessels but did not differ when considered as a ratio of vessel diameter. in 21 of 25 patients, mean coronary diameter reduction exceeded the three-standard deviation threshold at their last angiogram, but only two of these patients had visually detectable transplant coronary disease.
cervical spine diastematomyelia in adulthood. adult cervical diastematomyelia is a rare malformation and is usually associated with posterior element anomalies. a case of isolated cervical diastematomyelia, which was initially thought to be a herniated cervical disc, is described. diagnosis and surgical management are discussed.
retrograde transurethral balloon dilation of prostate: innovative management of abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia. retrograde transurethral balloon dilatation (rtbd) of the prostate recently has been suggested as alternative therapy for patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). seven patients with documented functional urinary outlet obstruction at the level of the bladder neck or prostatic urethra underwent rtbd of prostate. each patient had a classic diagnosis of abacterial chronic prostatitis or prostatodynia based on history, physical examination, and localization cultures. prior to rtbd of prostate, patients underwent cystoscopy, voiding cystourethrogram, urodynamic and uroflow studies. rtbd of prostate was done as an outpatient procedure requiring intravenous sedation or general anesthesia. dilation was performed with a 25-mm urethroplasty balloon catheter inflated at 3.5 atm of pressure for twenty minutes. improvement in voiding symptomatology was noted in all patients and graded numerically (0-10 scale), with ten indicating normal voiding. follow-up to date ranges from one to five months. this technique may have promise as a treatment option in patients with abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia.
zollinger-ellison syndrome. relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion. since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer, infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease. we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer, it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another, specific etiology, such as zollinger-ellison syndrome. gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome (17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis. all subjects, who were matched for age and sex, had undergone elective gastric resections. gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis. the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome (8/18) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer (16/18; p less than 0.02). moreover, chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer (p less than 0.01). in zollinger-ellison syndrome, peak acid output was lower in patients positive (median 22 meq/30 min) compared to those negative for h. pylori (median 32 meq/30 min; p less than 0.02) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori (p less than 0.05). h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology, such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome. h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion.
percutaneous transvesical chorionic villus sampling: an alternative approach to the retroverted uterus. in 458 consecutive chorionic villus sampling (cvs) procedures, we observed a significant influence of uterine position upon sampling efficacy. compared with anteverted (n = 243) or axial (n = 149) locations, the retroverted uterus (n = 66) was associated with a lower mean sample weight per aspiration (22, 18, and 15 mg, respectively; p less than .01) and a greater frequency of multiple-pass procedures (23, 31, and 52%, respectively; p less than .0001). to improve sampling efficiency in selected cases of uterine retroversion, we adopted a transvesical approach. when compared with transabdominal or transcervical techniques, transvesical cvs had the highest single-pass success rate (33, 33, and 60%, respectively). only one in 30 transvesical cases required three placental passes, compared with nine of 36 retroverted uteri sampled by either transabdominal or transcervical techniques (p less than .05). the mean transvesical sample weight was 18.7 mg; at least 10 mg was retrieved in all cases. post-procedure bleeding occurred in four instances and an additional patient suffered a spontaneous loss at 16 weeks' gestation. aneuploidy was found in four of 30 biopsy specimens, and the remaining pregnancies either have delivered at term (n = 18) or are continuing (n = 7). our preliminary experience suggests that selected use of this cvs method may improve sampling efficiency without increasing the incidence of complications.
new insights into the causes of cancer. recent advances in molecular biologic analysis have led to major new insights concerning the genetic mechanisms underlying the development of cancer. this article examines the current state of our understanding of the genetic basis underlying the possible mechanisms of carcinogenesis and metastasis. the nature of the genetic lesions found in some cancer-causing genes, cancer-inhibiting genes, growth factor genes, and metastasis genes is discussed, as is the impact that these may have on clinical oncology.
three-dimensional analysis of 61 human endolymphatic ducts and sacs in ears with and without meniere's disease. we used light microscopy and computerized graphic reconstruction techniques to examine the endolymphatic duct and sac in 20 pairs of bones from patients with meniere's disease and 21 bones from controls. the diameters of the endolymphatic duct and the proximal portion of the vestibular aqueduct were significantly smaller in meniere's disease ears than in controls. graphic reconstructions showed the meniere's sacs to be smaller and to have fewer tubular epithelial structures in the intraosseous portion than in the control ears. the median volume of the sac in the meniere's disease side was substantially lower than in the contralateral ear. the width of the external aperture of the vestibular aqueduct was significantly smaller in meniere's disease ears than in controls. these findings indicate that the size not only of the vestibular aqueduct but also of the sac is reduced in meniere's disease. the results may suggest that the endolymphatic sac is pathologically changed in meniere's disease and that a reduced resorptive capacity of a small endolymphatic sac could result in endolymphatic hydrops.
modified technique of pringle's maneuver in resection of the liver. crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes. pringle's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well. therefore, we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus. this vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver.
hepatocellular carcinoma with tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium: report of a successful resection with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. hepatocellular carcinoma with a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium has been considered beyond the reach of resection. these patients usually die within a short period because of pulmonary embolism, heart failure, or cancer progression. the only treatment is hepatic resection with removal of the tumor thrombus. a 38-year-old woman underwent left lobectomy with removal of the tumor thrombus with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. the patient had an uneventful course and is doing well 15 months after surgery, without signs of recurrence. we have proved that hepatic resection with removal of a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium can be carried out successfully. the next problem is whether the lives of these patients can be prolonged by this operation.
small intestinal transit in the portal hypertensive rat. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of portal hypertension on gastrointestinal transit. portal hypertension was induced in a group of 15 rats by the staged portal vein ligation technique. a control group of 15 rats underwent a sham operation. ten days later, a 51cr-labeled krebs' buffer solution was instilled into the duodenum and the distribution or radioactivity along the length of the small intestine was determined after 15, 30, and 60 minutes. portal hypertension was consistently established in the study group; splenic pulp pressure (mm hg, mean +/- sd, portal hypertensive vs. control) was 20.0 +/- 3.9 vs. 12.7 +/- 3.9, p less than 0.002. various measures of intestinal transit revealed delayed transit in the portal hypertensive group. retention of radioactivity in the most proximal quartile of the intestine was greater [percentage retained (portal hypertensive vs. control) was 57.9 +/- 17.3 vs. 31.2 +/- 15.3, p less than 0.02, 49.1 +/- 15.5 vs. 28.3 +/- 4.8, p = 0.03, and 42.4 +/- 17.6 vs. 29.0 +/- 8.8, p = 0.08, at 15, 30, and 60 minutes, respectively] and the geometric mean of transit was located more proximally (p less than 0.02) at each study interval in the portal hypertension group. it was concluded that portal hypertension is associated with delayed intestinal transit. this abnormality could predispose to bacterial overgrowth and contribute to altered digestion and absorption.
intracranial chordoma in a preadolescent. case report. chordomas are rare tumors derived from notochord remnants occurring primarily in the sacrum, clivus, and cervical regions. exceptionally, these tumors occur in children, though usually in the sacrum. eight cases of clivus chordoma have been described in preteenagers. in this report, a clival chordoma with unusual radiologic features is described in an 11-year-old boy. the literature regarding this entity is reviewed.
correlation between laboratory findings and clinical outcome after restorative proctocolectomy: serial studies in 20 patients with end-to-end pouch-anal anastomosis. clinical function and anorectal physiological function were assessed and correlated in 20 patients with ulcerative colitis before restorative proctocolectomy and 3, 7, and 12 months after operation. the entire anal sphincter was preserved by means of a stapled pouch-anal anastomosis. before operation, the median resting anal pressure was 79 cmh2o (interquartile range 70-89 cmh2o), the rectoanal inhibitory reflex was present in all patients and anorectal 'sampling' was noted in 16 of 20 patients. three months after operation, resting anal pressure was 68 cmh2o (range 50-87 cmh2o) (p less than 0.001), the reflex was present in only three patients (p less than 0.001) and sampling was observed in one patient. after 7 months, resting anal pressure was 76 cmh2o (range 64-89 cmh2o), the reflex was present in 11 patients and sampling was observed in nine patients. at 12 months, resting anal pressure was 84 cmh2o (range 66-94 cmh2o), the reflex was present in 19 patients and sampling was observed in 17 patients. the compliance and capacity of the reservoir increased significantly. ability to discriminate flatus from faeces was associated with return of the rectoanal reflex and sampling.
stroke rehabilitation: a geropsychological perspective. rehabilitation medicine and geriatric medicine are similar in their concern for functional improvement in the face of chronic medical conditions. although many patients served by rehabilitation medicine fall within the geriatric age range, a knowledge of normal aging does not necessarily inform clinical decision making or research practices in rehabilitation. using stroke as an example of a disorder affecting primarily geriatric patients and requiring the technology of rehabilitation, ways in which age might affect assessment of outcome are examined. three areas dealing with conceptual and methodologic issues--depression, neurochemical interventions, and family--are highlighted. the final section outlines recommendations for research on rehabilitation outcome of geriatric stroke patients.
a case of severe pancytopenia caused by ibuprofen. we here present the case of a patient with severe neutropenia, haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopenia associated with long-term use of ibuprofen. the blood parameters rapidly normalized when the drug was discontinued, and no further treatment, except for a short course of antibiotics, was required.
arterial revascularization by laser angioplasty: first italian experiences. eighty-seven laser angioplasty procedures were performed on 85 patients (73 men and 12 women). in the first phase (54 patients) a broad selection process included long occlusions (23.9 cm avg) and vessels with heavy calcification; in the second phase (31 patients) the authors treated vessels with shorter occlusions (10 cm avg) and less calcific. the primary success rate, based on number of procedures (73.5% overall) was 69% in the first phase but reached 81.3% in the second phase. there were 14 perforations (16%), 8 dissections (9.4%), and 4 peripheral emboli (4.7%). six-month follow-up shows that the winsor index maintained its initial improvement in 76.5% of all patients, or 62% in just the long occlusions. these data and a review of the cases suggest that no more of 10-20% of patients with claudication in lower extremities can be treated by laser angioplasty; the authors consider ideal candidates those patients who noncalcific lesions in the common iliac or superficial femoral arteries at the iii medium level with obstructions shorter than 8 cm and good runoff.
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis. a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis, ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis.
an unusual organoid tumor. alveolar soft part sarcoma or paraganglioma? the histogenesis of alveolar soft part sarcoma (asps) is a subject of continued debate. although many recent reports suggest a muscle origin, others advocate a neuroendocrine derivation. a tumor in the chest wall of a 16-year-old woman was diagnosed and treated as asps. the light microscopic, electron microscopic, and immunohistochemical findings showed features of both asps and paraganglioma. in addition, this lesion was positive for antibody to glucagon, a characteristic of neither asps nor paraganglioma, although seen in a few gangliocytic paragangliomas. this case demonstrates the need for continued inquiry into the histogenesis of asps.
genetic cause of a juvenile form of tay-sachs disease in a lebanese child. abnormality in the beta-hexosaminidase alpha gene underlying the clinical phenotype of a lebanese patient with a juvenile form of tay-sachs disease has been studied. clinical features were progressive spasticity, ataxia, and cognitive decline. the protein coding sequence of several beta-hexosaminidase alpha-chain complementary dnas isolated by polymerase chain reaction was completely normal except for a g-to-a transition at nucleotide position 1511 within exon 13, which resulted in substitution of the normal arginine 504 (cgc) with histidine (cac). although the patient was from a first-cousin marriage, she was heterozygous for this mutation. the abnormality in the other allele, which is carried by the father, was not identified, except that it is neither of the two mutations responsible for the infantile jewish tay-sachs disease. biosynthetic and immunoprecipitation studies in cultured fibroblasts showed synthesis of the alpha-chain precursor, but the mature form of the alpha-subunit was not detected.
morphological observations late (greater than 30 days) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty. this report describes clinical, morphological, and histological findings late (1.6-24.1 months [average, 8.2 months]) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty in 20 necropsied patients with coronary angioplasty restenosis. clinical evidence of restenosis occurred in 14 (70%) of patients, including six patients with sudden coronary death. of the 20 patients, 14 (70%) had cardiac causes of death and six (30%) had noncardiac causes of death. two major subgroups of histological findings were observed: 1) intimal proliferation (60%) and 2) atherosclerotic plaques only. of the eight sites with atherosclerotic plaques only, six were eccentric lesions and two were concentric lesions. no morphological evidence of previous angioplasty injury (cracks, breaks, or tears) was observed in the eight patients with atherosclerotic plaques only. proposed mechanisms for the development of intimal proliferation involve the reaction of smooth muscle cells and platelets, whereas elastic recoil of overstretched eccentric or concentric atherosclerotic lesions represents the most likely explanation for the findings in the latter subgroup. on the basis of these morphological findings at angioplasty restenosis sites, specific treatment strategies for coronary artery balloon angioplasty restenosis are proposed.
prognosis of wilsonian chronic active hepatitis. twenty of 320 patients with wilson's disease initially presented with chemical and laboratory features of chronic active hepatitis, confirmed histologically in 17. when first seen, cirrhosis was present in all 20 and was complicated by ascites and/or jaundice in 11. within 1 week to 8 years of the onset of over liver disease the diagnosis of wilson's disease was established, and treatment with d-penicillamine was promptly initiated in 19 patients. one man refused treatment and died 4 months later. treated patients received d-penicillamine or trientine for a total of 264 patient-years (median, 14 patient-years). abnormal water retention, for which salt restriction and diuretics were added to penicillamine or trientine, disappeared in all but 1 of the patients so affected. symptomatic improvement and virtually normal levels of serum albumin, bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase followed within 1 year in the majority of subjects. one woman died after 9 months of treatment. two patients, who became noncompliant with the therapeutic regimen after 9 and 17 years of successful pharmacological treatment, required liver transplants. these results indicate that the prognosis of specifically treated wilsonian chronic active hepatitis is very good in spite of the presence of cirrhosis.
limited selective posterior rhizotomy for the treatment of spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy: a preliminary report. a limited selective posterior rhizotomy was performed on 30 children suffering from spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy. as opposed to standard techniques that stimulate and divide the dorsal rootlets from l2 to s1, we dissected l4, l5, and s1 dorsal roots through an l5 to s1 laminectomy. eight to 12 rootlets from each root were electrically stimulated with two unipolar electrodes (pulse width, 50 microseconds; 10-50 v). the muscle responses were observed visually and registered by electromyography. those rootlets associated with an abnormal motor response as evidenced by sustained muscular contraction or by prolonged electromyographic response were divided. spasticity was scored from 0 to +. the muscular groups assessed were those involved in the flexion of the shoulder, elbow and wrist in the upper limbs, and those involved in flexion and adduction of the hip, flexion of the leg, and plantar flexion in the lower limbs. the patients were assessed 1 week before and 6 months after the operation. reduction of spasticity was observed in all the muscular groups, and all the patients presented functional improvement of motor abilities. these preliminary results indicate that a limited procedure that reduces the extension of the laminectomy and the length of the operation could be effective for treating spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy.
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients. in this prospective study, mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990. sixteen patients had prior surgery; 13 had prior radiotherapy. in 11 patients, prior radiation and surgery had failed. sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions. twelve patients had complications of either intraoral (8), extraoral (5), or combined (1) plate exposure or fistula formation (2). factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition, accelerated radiation, and recurrence. sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully. when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded, the success rate was 73%. only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair.
influence of dietary cod liver oil on fatty acid composition of plasma lipids in human male subjects after myocardial infarction. a randomized crossover study was carried out to investigate the fatty acid profile and concentrations of plasma lipids in male patients with myocardial infarction (mi) who supplemented their diet with 20 ml cod liver oil daily for 6 weeks. subjects were divided into two groups, a and b. group a received cod liver oil daily for 6 weeks after hospital discharge, but none for the subsequent 6 weeks. group b did not start taking cod liver oil until 6 weeks after hospital discharge, and they then took cod liver oil for 6 weeks. diet, medication or smoking habits were kept as constant as possible during the study. during the period of cod liver oil intake, eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5 (n-3), epa) and docosahexaenoic acid (22:6 (n-3), dha) increased significantly in phospholipids (pl), triglycerides (tg) and cholesterol esters (ce), whereas linoleic acid (18:2 (n-6), la), dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (20:3 (n-6), dhgla) and arachidonic acid (20:4 (n-6), aa) were significantly decreased in phospholipids. the plasma level of tg was significantly decreased during the cod liver oil intake. total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol, and levels of apolipoproteins a1 and b were not affected by cod liver oil in these mi patients.
use of immunoelectron microscopy to show ebola virus during the 1989 united states epizootic. a filovirus, serologically related to ebola virus, was detected by "post-embedment" immunoelectron microscopical examination of ma-104 cells. these had been infected by inoculation with serum samples obtained during the 1989 epizootic in cynomolgus monkeys (macaca fascicularis), imported from the philippines and maintained at reston, virginia, usa, a primate holding facility. the immunoelectron microscopy method, when used in conjunction with standard transmission electron microscopy (tem) of infected cells, provided consistent results and was simple to perform in this epizootic. it is concluded that immunoelectron microscopy is potentially useful in the direct immunological diagnosis of ebola and related filoviral infections (such as marburg) in clinical samples obtained from those with acute infection.
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome. recurrent symptoms develop in 15% to 20% of patients undergoing either first rib resection or scalenectomy for thoracic outlet syndrome. over the past 22 years 134 operations for recurrence were performed in 97 patients. four operations were used: transaxillary first rib resection (26); supraclavicular first rib resection with neurolysis (15); scalenectomy with neurolysis (58); and brachial plexus neurolysis (35). complications included temporary plexus injury (0.7%), temporary phrenic palsy (3.7%), and permanent phrenic palsy (1.4%). the combined primary success rate of all four operations for recurrence was 84% in the first 3 months. this fell to 59% at 1 to 2 years; 50% at 3 to 5 years; and 41% at 10 to 15 years. no significant difference was found in results between the four operations used for recurrence. when recurrence was caused by trauma the results of reoperations were better than when recurrence was spontaneous. the primary success rates of three initial operations for thoracic outlet syndrome were compared to their secondary success rates (improved after reoperation). by use of life-table methods, reoperation improved the 5- to 10-year success rate of transaxillary first rib resection from 69% to 86% and for scalenectomy from 69% to 84%. reoperation is successful in most cases of recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome and better when recurrence is the result of a neck injury.
preferential mitogenic activity for myoblast-like cells can be extracted from uterine leiomyoma tissues. the presence of mitogen(s) in leiomyoma extracts stimulating cells with the fibroblast, myoblast, and osteoblast phenotype was documented. mitogenic activity in leiomyoma extracts was acid stable and sensitive to tryptic digestion. reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography successfully separated mitogen(s) with preferential activity for myoblast cells from mitogens with a broad type of cell specificity and from inhibitors. this leiomyoma-derived preferential activity for myoblasts was absent in identically treated myometrial and endometrial extracts. this suggests that leiomyoma-derived substances with preferential growth factor activity for myoblast-like cells may play a role in the pathophysiologic characteristics of uterine leiomyomas.
congenital cyst of common bile duct: an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice. congenital cysts, sometimes referred to as nonparasitic biliary cysts, are not unusual findings in the liver parenchyma, but they have not been previously described in the common bile duct. this clinical report describes a 41-year-old woman with obstructive jaundice that was caused by congenital cysts. the patient had obstruction of the middle portion of the common bile duct; therefore the major differential diagnostic considerations were cholangiocarcinoma, cancer of the pancreas, or true biliary cysts. congenital cysts, retention cysts, and neoplastic cysts cannot be differentiated from other true cysts preoperatively. diagnosis can only be established by microscopic examination after surgical excision.
surgical correction of recurrent venous ulcer. seventy-six limbs from 46 patients with comparable superficial and deep venous valve incompetence underwent surgical correction for recurrent venous ulcers of the leg that were refractory to various modes of nonsurgical and surgical treatments. a follow-up of 10 to 73 months (mean = 37 months), revealed the venous ulcer healed with perforator ligation and saphenous vein stripping in 14 of 33 (44%), stripping plus valvuloplasty 17 of 21 (80%), stripping plus vein transposition 11 of 14 (78%) and stripping plus valve transplantation 6 of 8 (75%). in patients with incompetent deep venous valve and perforators, the disassociation of the superficial from the deep venous system (stripping) plus correction of the deep venous valvular incompetence (valvuloplasty, transposition or valve transplant) produced superior results in the treatment of recurrent venous ulcer when compared to perforator ligation and saphenous vein stripping alone (p less than 0.005). adjunctive usage of elastic stockings and intermittent compression pneumatic boots in the perioperative period was helpful in controlling leg swelling and promoting wound healing.
chronic anaemia, hyperbaric oxygen and tumour radiosensitivity. anaemia is an important factor in the response of some human tumours to radiotherapy. the outcome is also influenced by whether the treatment is given in air or high pressure oxygen (hpo). the present study examined the relationship between anaemia and tumour response to radiation given in air or hpo in c3h mice transplanted with a mammary adenocarcinoma using a growth delay assay to assess the radiation response. chronic anaemia was induced by the use of a low iron diet and was characterized by a significant reduction in host haematocrit and whole blood viscosity. in addition, anaemia was associated with a right shift in the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and an increase in the volume doubling time of the tumour; but there was no change in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells. radiation studies with these anaemic mice demonstrated that the tumour radiosensitivity was decreased when treatment was given in air. hpo was successful in overcoming the increased radioresistance associated with anaemia. this result suggested that tumours grown in anaemic mice have a higher hypoxic fraction than those grown in control mice. changes in host physiology with chronic anaemia may contribute to the benefit seen with hpo but such alterations per se may be inadequate to maintain tumour oxygenation when treatment is given in air.
spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. cardiac involvement is common in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) and, when symptomatic, it portends a poor prognosis. we present a case of marked spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with aids. to our knowledge, this is the first reported case of spontaneous recovery of ventricular function in an aids patient.
relation between beta-adrenergic blocker use, various correlates of left ventricular function and the chance of developing congestive heart failure. the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction research group. this study examined the relations among beta-adrenergic blocker use, various correlates of left ventricular function and the chance of developing congestive heart failure in patients after myocardial infarction. the study was performed with the placebo group of the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction trial. ejection fraction data were available in 1,084 patients; of these, 557 were receiving a beta-blocker and 527 were not. in addition to ejection fraction, other correlates of left ventricular function included the presence or absence of pulmonary rales, chest x-ray film evidence of pulmonary congestion and the presence of an s3 gallop. beta-blocker use was less frequent in patients with an ejection fraction less than 30%, rales, an s3 gallop and pulmonary congestion on chest x-ray film. twenty-one percent of patients with an ejection fraction less than 30%, 42% of patients with rales, 28% of patients with an s3 gallop and 28% of patients with pulmonary congestion were receiving beta-blocker therapy. for every correlate of left ventricular function, the chance of developing congestive heart failure was greater in patients with diminished left ventricular function than in those without. for each level of left ventricular function, the chance of developing congestive heart failure requiring treatment was greater in patients not taking a beta-blocker.
vaginal bleeding in childhood and adolescence. vaginal bleeding in early childhood, regardless of its duration and quantity, is always of clinical importance. this article discusses the examination of the child and adolescent and reviews the various causes of vaginal bleeding in these patient groups.
respiratory muscle involvement in nemaline myopathy. a boy who had experienced generalized muscle weakness and hypotonia since early infancy was diagnosed as having nemaline myopathy on the basis of muscle biopsy at 3 years of age. at 8 years of age, he developed severe respiratory failure and required respiratory support during sleep. because of recurrent pneumothorax, he underwent thoracic surgery, at which time biopsy specimens were obtained from the respiratory and truncal muscles. the histologic findings of the respiratory muscles included marked variation in fiber size with a notable increase in fibrous tissue, type 2 fiber deficiency, elevated acid phosphatase activity, and a disorganized intermyofibrillar network. the findings from the truncal muscles were similar to those of the biceps brachii muscle: little variation in fiber size, numerous nemaline bodies in all fibers, and type 1 fiber predominance. the preferential damage to the respiratory muscles was probably responsible for the sudden onset of severe respiratory failure.
effects of xamoterol on inotropic and lusitropic properties of the human myocardium and on adenylate cyclase activity. the purpose of the present study was to characterize the effects of xamoterol in the human myocardium. in the presence of forskolin or milrinone, xamoterol increased isometric force of contraction, contraction velocity, and relaxation velocity in isolated, electrically driven preparations from human myocardium, but had no effect alone. there was no difference in the effect of xamoterol between right atrial myocardium and left ventricular myocardium from nonfailing (nf), moderately failing (nyha ii-iii), and severely failing (nyha iv) human hearts. the positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of isoprenaline were reduced depending on the severity of heart failure in left ventricular myocardium (i.e., nf greater than nyha ii-iii greater than nyha iv). in the presence of norepinephrine, xamoterol produced negative inotropic effects similar to those of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonists pindolol and propranolol. xamoterol alone had no effects on force of contraction, whereas pindolol and propranolol markedly reduced contractile force. in nyha class iv, isoprenaline stimulated adenylate cyclase about twofold but xamoterol, like pindolol or propranolol, had no effect. experiments with the beta 1- and beta 2-selective antagonists cgp 207.12a and ici 118.551, respectively, showed that the positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of xamoterol were mediated by beta 1-adrenoceptors. consistently, xamoterol had a selectivity of 13.8 at beta 1-adrenoceptors as measured in radioligand binding experiments. it is concluded that xamoterol acts as a beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with a selectivity of 13.8 in human ventricular myocardium. the compound has an intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, as it produces beta 1-adrenoceptor-mediated positive inotropic and lusitropic effects in the presence of forskolin. the beneficial effects of xamoterol in patients with heart failure could be due to prevention of the detrimental effects of norepinephrine such as beta 1-adrenoceptor downregulation of an increase of gi (inhibitory guanine-nucleotide binding protein).
effect of abrupt mitral regurgitation after balloon valvuloplasty on myocardial load and performance. the concept that mitral regurgitation masks myocardial dysfunction by reducing afterload and augmenting ejection performance has not been well established in humans. the effect of abruptly produced mitral regurgitation on left ventricular loading and performance was therefore evaluated in five patients who developed this complication after an otherwise successful percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty. mitral valve area by gorlin formula calculated with forward flow increased from 0.92 +/- 0.14 to 2.75 +/- 0.82 cm2. mean left atrial pressure did not decrease (19 +/- 4 to 19 +/- 6 mm hg). the size of the left atrial v wave relative to mean left atrial pressure (peak v - mean left atrial pressure) increased from 7 +/- 4 to 19 +/- 6 mm hg. angiographic mitral regurgitation increased from 0+ or 1+ to greater than 3+ in each patient and regurgitant fraction increased from 0.23 +/- 0.11 to 0.55 +/- 0.09 (p less than 0.01). end-diastolic volume increased modestly from 148 +/- 15 to 159 +/- 15 ml (p = ns). heart rate increased from 54 +/- 5 to 71 +/- 8 beats/min (p less than 0.05), which may have prevented further increases in preload by shortening the filling period. end-systolic stress decreased by 32% from 277 +/- 34 to 188 +/- 52 kdyn/cm2 (p less than 0.01) as a result of a 25% decrease in end-systolic pressure from 121 +/- 8 to 91 +/- 7 mm hg and a 16% decrease in end-systolic volume from 67 +/- 13 to 56 +/- 8 ml (p = ns).
how long can a coronary reperfusion catheter be placed in acute coronary occlusion following failed transluminal coronary angioplasty? a case report. a coronary reperfusion catheter (crc) is designed to preserve antegrade coronary flow when abrupt coronary closure occurs during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). insertion of the catheter to an occluded coronary artery for a few hours has been reported to be effective for myocardial salvage: however, it is unknown how long the catheter can be kept in place without causing extension of myocardial ischemia. the authors experienced a case in which the crc was kept in place for twenty-four hours for anticoagulant therapy of an occluded coronary artery following failure of ptca. this case suggests that adequate anticoagulant therapy can prolong the period during which a crc can be kept in place if emergency coronary bypass surgery cannot be performed immediately after failure of coronary angioplasty.
adenine nucleotide changes in kidney, liver, and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury. the purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock, contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs (the liver and small intestine), and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion, the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure. rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock, septic shock, or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations. the liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion, followed by the kidney, and then the small intestine. however, only the kidney developed clear morphological damage (s3 brush border sloughing). kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures. only profound hemorrhagic shock (35-40 mm hg for 25 minutes) decreased total adenylate pools (atp + adp + amp). however, the degree of renal catabolite (nucleosides plus purine base) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion, partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools. purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs, consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity (small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney). renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate (0-30 minutes) postshock period, and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition (oxypurinol), suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury. shock, in comparison with renal arterial occlusion, caused only modest atp loss/catabolite accumulation, very low purine base/uric acid ratios, and no immediate-reperfusion (0-30 minutes) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool. thus, ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably, depending on the nature of the ischemic event.
the role of infections in the rheumatic diseases: molecular mimicry between bacterial and human stress proteins? infections can cause or exacerbate the rheumatic diseases in several ways, including immune cross-reactivity between bacterial heat shock proteins and similar proteins in normal human tissues. this may lead to autoimmunity in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus. in addition, increased activation of the gene regulating the synthesis of a heat shock protein has been found in scleroderma fibroblasts. as an infection-induced model for other rheumatic diseases, rheumatic fever (rf), with its well-established link to prior group a streptococcal infection, will be revisited. the lessons learned from rf and other rheumatic diseases directly linked to infection will be applied to ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, sjogren's syndrome and polymyositis, for which a mounting body of circumstantial evidence suggests a probable infectious cause. the interplay of genetic susceptibility and infection with particular organisms and the implications of this new information for present and future therapy of the rheumatic diseases will also be presented.
warner-lambert/parke-davis award lecture. pathobiology of the intestinal epithelial barrier. the major route of passive permeation across intestinal epithelia is paracellular. the intercellular tight junction lies in and serves as the rate-limiting barrier in this paracellular pathway. once viewed as static, it is now clear that the structure and permeability of the tight junction is highly dynamic. not only may inflammatory events (cytokines, neutrophil transmigration) reversibly effect the tight junction but this key barrier also is regulated by physiologic events such as activation of absorptive cell na(+)-nutrient cotransporters. such physiologic regulation of the junction is of major importance to the absorption of nutrients via parcellular solvent drag.
genetics of common diseases of adulthood. implications for prenatal counseling and diagnosis. genetic factors play an important role in the development of many common diseases of adulthood that result in early morbidity and mortality. prevention of these disorders and their sequelae is best established through early detection and early intervention. although it may be feasible to screen the entire population for some disorders (e.g., hypertension), this approach would be expensive and impractical for others (e.g., colon cancer). the family history provides an inexpensive and convenient method of identifying families at risk for premature diseases of adulthood. family screening for a disorder should be recommended if there is increased risk for the disorder among family members, if screening methods are available to detect the condition at an early age or preclinical stage, and if early intervention will alter the course of the disease. for many disorders screening and intervention can prevent the occurrence of clinical disease. the prenatal counseling session affords an ideal setting for identifying families at risk for diseases of adulthood with major genetic components. by reviewing the family history, key family members can be identified and investigated, in order to establish a specific genetic diagnosis. at-risk relatives can then be counseled and screened for the disorder preclinically and premorbidly. the screening and intervention available for a disease depends on the nature of the disorder, our understanding of its physiology and etiology, and our current technology. the disorders discussed earlier are typical of conditions of adulthood that are influenced strongly by genetic factors, especially when they appear in younger adults. atherosclerosis, colon cancer, and diabetes are complex phenotypes. each can be caused by single-gene defects, but commonly the genetics are more complex. empiric data help to establish the risk to an individual in the latter cases. in all three examples, early detection should lead to treatment, which can prevent more serious sequelae: by treating the dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease can be prevented; by removing the benign polyp, malignant cancer can be avoided; and when impaired glucose tolerance is detected, diet and exercise can prevent or delay frank diabetes and its complications. the complete evaluation of individuals at risk for disorders such as those in table 1 and their families can be a complicated task. referral to a center experienced in the genetics of common diseases often may be necessary.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
urinary excretion of bile acid glucosides and glucuronides in extrahepatic cholestasis. recently the formation of bile acid glucosides has been described as a novel conjugation mechanism in vitro and in vivo. in 10 patients with extrahepatic cholestasis caused by carcinoma of the head of the pancreas we investigated excretion rates and profiles of urinary bile acid glucosides. urinary bile acid glucosides and, for comparison, bile acid glucuronides were extracted and characterized according to established methods. in controls total urinary bile acid glucoside excretion was 0.22 +/- 0.03 mumol/24 hr (mean +/- s.e.m.)-in the range of bile acid glucuronide excretion (0.41 +/- 0.06 mumol/24 hr; mean +/- s.e.m.). a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-characterized trihydroxy bile acid glucoside of still-unknown hydroxyl positions accounted for 65% of total urinary bile acid glucosides. in extrahepatic cholestasis total urinary bile acid glucoside excretion was 0.52 +/- 0.13 mumol/24 hr (mean +/- sem), yet significantly lower than bile acid glucuronide excretion (1.53 +/- 0.13 mumol/24 hr; mean +/- sem; p less than 0.001). in cholestasis the primary bile acid derivatives cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid glucosides amounted to 90%, whereas the trihydroxy bile acid glucoside had decreased to 5% of total bile acid glucoside excretion, indicating its alteration during enterohepatic circulation. the data establish the composition and quantity of urinary bile acid glucosides in healthy controls and cholestasis and constitute a quantitative comparison with another glycosidic conjugation reaction, bile acid glucuronidation.
myocardial infarct size-limiting effect of ischemic preconditioning was not attenuated by oxygen free-radical scavengers in the rabbit. background. the limiting effect of ischemic preconditioning on infarct size has been reported in canine hearts, which contain considerable amounts of xanthine oxidase, a free radical-producing enzyme. furthermore, a recent study suggested that free radicals generated during preconditioning may contribute to the cardioprotective effect of preconditioning. the present study examined 1) whether preconditioning limits infarct size in rabbits, which, like humans, lack myocardial xanthine oxidase and 2) whether the cardioprotective effect of pc is mediated by free radicals. methods and results. a branch of the circumflex coronary artery in rabbits was occluded for 30 minutes and then reperfused for 72 hours. myocardial infarct size and area at risk were determined by histology and fluorescent particles, respectively. five groups were studied: an untreated control group, a preconditioned group (pc group), a high-dose superoxide dismutase (sod)-treated preconditioned group (high-dose sod-pc group), a low-dose sod-treated preconditioned group (low-dose sod-pc group), and a sod-plus-catalase-treated preconditioned group (sod/cat-pc group). preconditioning was performed with four episodes of 5 minutes of ischemia and 5 minutes of reperfusion. the free radical scavengers (30,000 units/kg sod for high-dose sod-pc group, 15,000 units/kg sod for low-dose sod-pc group, and 30,000 units/kg sod plus 55,000 units/kg catalase for sod/cat-pc group) were infused intravenously over 60 minutes starting 20 minutes before preconditioning. infarct size as the percentage of area at risk was 45.1 +/- 3.5% (mean +/- sem) in the control group (n = 11), 13.3 +/- 3.0% in the pc group (n = 12), 9.7 +/- 1.8% in the high-dose sod-pc group (n = 8), 11.9 +/- 2.2% in the low-dose sod-pc group (n = 6), and 9.6 +/- 2.3% in the sod/cat-pc group (n = 6) (p less than 0.05 versus control for the last four values). the differences in infarct size as the percent of area at risk among the pc, high-dose sod-pc, low-dose sod-pc, and sod/cat-pc groups were not significant. conclusion. ischemic preconditioning delays ischemic myocardial necrosis regardless of myocardial xanthine oxidase content. free radicals are unlikely to have a major role in the mechanism of the preconditioning in rabbits.
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma. the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient, and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum. the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues, the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238, and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99. this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously, and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank, embl, or nbrf databases, including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein (cdr34) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody. unexpectedly, the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue, the intestine.
transient left ventricular cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging as an indicator of severe coronary artery disease. transient left ventricular (lv) cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging was reported in 45 of 510 (9%) consecutive patients referred for dipyridamole-thallium imaging. clinical and hemodynamic effects observed during dipyridamole infusion were not predictive of transient cavitary dilation on the thallium images. coronary angiography was performed in 32 of the 45 patients: 75% had either left main, 3-vessel or "high-risk" 2-vessel coronary artery disease. although 25 of 45 patients (56%) with transient cavitary dilation were either asymptomatic or had only grade 1/4 effort angina, 16 of 25 patients (64%) not referred for coronary revascularization sustained a cardiac event during a mean follow-up of 12 months. most events were cardiac deaths (75%) and 87% of events occurred within 4 months of the test. noncardiac surgery was performed in 187 of the 510 patients. the postoperative cardiac event rate was 2% in the 101 patients with normal scans or fixed defects, 19% in 75 patients with reversible perfusion defects and 58% in 12 patients with reversible cavitary dilation (p less than 0.0001). thus, transient lv dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging is a marker of severe underlying coronary artery disease, denotes a poor prognosis and predicts a high risk of postoperative cardiac complications in patients who undergo noncardiac surgery.
the "all-autogenous" tissue policy for infrainguinal reconstruction questioned. in 33% of patients referred for infrainguinal reconstruction for limb-threatening ischemia (mean preoperative ankle-arm index [aai] = 0.26), no suitable autogenous reconstruction was possible. in 40% of cases, intraoperative pre-bypass contrast arteriography was necessary to identify a graftable tibial or pedal artery. the results of polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe) and autogenous bypasses were compared after 1 to 3 years. after 1 year, patency was 85% and 67% for autogenous and ptfe bypasses, respectively. limb salvage was 90% for autogenous bypass and 70% for ptfe bypass. cumulative patency rates at 3 years were 80% for autogenous and 57% for ptfe grafts. graft surveillance with duplex scanning and aai was valuable in detecting failing grafts. for both types of reconstruction, secondary procedures were required to maintain patency. we attribute the excellent results with ptfe in part to long-term aspirin and warfarin therapy. in cases of combined superficial femoral and severe infra-popliteal occlusive disease, ptfe bypass is an excellent alternative when no autogenous conduit is available.
natural history of moderate aortic stenosis. the natural history of severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis has been well documented. however, the natural history of moderate aortic stenosis remains poorly understood. therefore, a group of 66 patients was identified who had a diagnosis of moderate aortic stenosis at the time of cardiac catheterization (aortic valve area 0.7 to 1.2 cm2) and who did not have surgical therapy during the 1st 180 days after cardiac catheterization. during a mean follow-up period of 35 months, 14 patients died of causes attributed to aortic stenosis and 21 underwent aortic valve replacement. the estimated probability for remaining free of any complication of aortic stenosis at the end of the first 4 years was 59%. symptomatic patients with decreased ejection fraction or hemodynamic evidence of left ventricular decompensation were at greater risk for these complications. it is concluded that patients with moderate aortic stenosis are at significant risk for the development of complications.
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain. endosalpingosis, a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium, is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location. endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms. our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain. various aspects of this disease will also be discussed.
mucocelelike tumor of the breast associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia or mucinous carcinoma. a clinicopathologic study of seven cases. we studied seven patients with mucocelelike tumors of the breast, known to be benign lesions that may be confused with mucinous carcinomas of the breast. all patients had a palpable mass. microscopically, the most striking feature was the cystic character of the lesion. the epithelial lining of the cysts was usually flat or cuboidal to low columnar, and mucin pools frequently appeared near the ruptured cysts. three mucocelelike tumors contained a microscopic focus of mucinous carcinoma. the other tumors had areas of atypical ductal hyperplasia containing abundant intraluminal mucinous materials. the mucin was composed predominantly of neutral and nonsulfated acid mucins whose character was identical to that of those in mucinous carcinoma. because all mucocelelike tumors in our series were associated with either atypical ductal hyperplasia or carcinoma and because some mucocelelike tumors may indeed be early mucinous carcinomas of the breast, we recommend examination of the entire specimen and careful clinical follow-up.
echocardiographic assessment of doxazosin on left ventricular mass in patients with essential hypertension. a single daily dose of doxazosin taken during a 12-week period produced a significant reduction in blood pressure and left ventricular mass index in patients with mild or moderate hypertension. the systolic shortening coefficient was also increased and a trend in the improvement of ejection fraction, rate of circumferential fiber shortening, systolic contraction time, and preejective/ejective ratio was observed. no change in heart rate was recorded and no patients had side effects. the serum lipid profile was modified favorably, particularly with regard to the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio. by producing a reduction in blood pressure and left ventricular mass while favorably modifying the serum lipid profile, doxazosin produced a beneficial change in the overall coronary heart disease risk profile.
use of the pudendo-anal reflex in the treatment of neurogenic faecal incontinence. an electrical stimulator has been devised to treat neurogenic faecal incontinence caused by pudendal nerve neuropathy and works on the basis of repeated stimulation of the pudendo-anal reflex arc. although conduction in the pudendo-anal reflex arc may be prolonged, and is so in neurogenic faecal incontinence, it must be shown to be present before the method can be used. this stimulation results in an immediate rise in the pressure in the anal canal and a significant increase in the electromyographic activity of the external anal sphincter. maintenance of the stimulus over a two month period raised the mean resting pressure significantly in the anal canal and increased the reflex and voluntary responses of the external anal sphincter to coughing and squeezing actions respectively. the length of the sphincter was not affected. there was widening of the mean motor unit potential duration, though this was not significant. the resting electromyogram was enhanced after the course of treatment, indicating greater spontaneous activity in the external sphincter. the changes led to seven of the eight patients studied becoming continent at the end of the treatment.
clinical features and natural history of von hippel-lindau disease the clinical features, age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von hippel-lindau disease were studied. mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years. retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients (43 per cent), followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma (n = 60, 39 per cent) and renal cell carcinoma (n = 15, 10 per cent). overall, 89 patients (59 per cent) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma, 89 (59 per cent) a retinal angioma, 43 (28 per cent) renal cell carcinoma, 20 (13 per cent) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 (7 per cent) a phaeochromocytoma. renal, pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed. mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (44.0 +/- 10.9 years) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma (29.0 +/- 10.0 years) and retinal angioma (25.4 +/- 12.7 years). the probability of a patient with von hippel-lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma, retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84, 0.7 and 0.69, respectively. a comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented, based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications. median actuarial survival was 49 years, with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death.
metabolic considerations in the choice of therapy for the patient with hypertension. the objective of treating patients with hypertension is not simply to reduce blood pressure but rather to prevent the associated morbidity and mortality. recent assessments of clinical trials have shown that while the risk of stroke is consistently lower with antihypertensive therapy, the same degree of success has not been demonstrated for coronary artery disease (cad). although there are many explanations of why we have not done as well in preventing cad, one possibility is that the therapy used in clinical trials, primarily thiazide diuretics and beta-adrenoreceptor blockers, has increased the patient's risk of developing coronary atherosclerosis or lethal arrhythmias. four classes of antihypertensive agents are recommended for initial therapy--thiazide diuretics, beta-adrenoreceptor blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors, and calcium entry blockers. the metabolic effects of thiazide diuretics include electrolyte disturbances (hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hyponatremia), dyslipidemia (increased triglycerides), abnormalities of glucose metabolism (hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and peripheral insulin resistance), and hyperuricemia. beta-adrenoreceptor blockers have many of the same metabolic adverse reactions. beta-adrenoreceptor blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (isa) also cause dyslipidemias (lowered high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increased triglycerides) and abnormalities of glucose metabolism (hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and peripheral insulin resistance). beta-adrenoreceptor blockers with isa and third-generation beta-blockers with selective partial agonist activity (celiprolol and dilevalol) do not cause dyslipidemia and to date do not appear to induce abnormalities in glucose metabolism. ace inhibitors may decrease triglycerides and increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and captopril may improve insulin sensitivity. calcium entry blockers are metabolically neutral.
the cancer prevention reminder system. the cancer prevention reminder system is a computer-based system designed to increase the delivery of periodic health maintenance procedures. the program provides printed reminders that identify patients' overdue procedures, prints summary reports of the percentage of patients who are eligible and overdue for a procedure, and prints mailing labels for patients. we performed a randomized, controlled trial in which the effects of computer-based reminders were compared with those of two other interventions among residents in a university-based group practice.
hyperkalemia in acute glomerulonephritis due to transient hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism. transient hyperkalemia has been reported to occur in patients with acute glomerulonephritis, but the pathogenetic mechanism has not been investigated systematically. we studied the mechanism of hyperkalemia (5.7 to 6.7 mmol/liter) in four men with post-infectious glomerulonephritis. all four patients had clinical findings consistent with acute glomerulonephritis (edema, hypertension, proteinuria, hematuria, and an elevated aso titer) and a renal biopsy performed in three of the patients confirmed the diagnosis. in comparison to normal subjects (n = 18), plasma aldosterone (5.4 +/- 1.6 vs. 22.8 +/- 2.6 ng/dl, p less than 0.005) and plasma renin activity (0.3 +/- 0.2 vs. 4.3 +/- 0.6 ng/ml/hr, p less than 0.005) were reduced. hyperkalemia resolved within one to two weeks in two patients as the nephritis resolved and diuresis ensued, and aldosterone and renin levels obtained at follow-up visits were normal. hyperkalemia persisted despite furosemide-induced diuresis in the other two patients, but resolved with fludrocortisone treatment. thus, hyperkalemia in patients with acute glomerulonephritis is a manifestation, in part, of hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism. it is ameliorated by mineralocorticoid therapy and improves spontaneously with resolution of the glomerulonephritis.
retained intrahepatic stones: treatment with piezoelectric lithotripsy combined with stone extraction. extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) was performed in 11 patients with oriental cholangiohepatitis and intrahepatic stones associated with segmented strictures of intrahepatic ducts. all patients had previously undergone biliary surgery and basket extraction via a t-tube tract at the time of lithotripsy. the indication for eswl was failure of, or anticipated difficulty with, basket extraction of the stones via a t-tube tract. a piezoelectric lithotriptor was used in all procedures. the average total number of shock waves administered was 29,756 (range, 10,000-61,395). the average number of treatment sessions was 3.1 (range, 1-6); the number of shock waves used in a single session ranged from 10,000 to 15,000 with a frequency of five shots per second and 30%-50% power. in six patients, the stones were successfully fragmented and completely removed; in three of the others of the stones were fragmented and removed. the overall success rate, including complete (54%) and incomplete (27%) success, was 82%. difficulty in targeting stones, and severe strictures and deformities of intrahepatic ducts, were the factors responsible for failure. no significant complications were observed.
radiculomegaly of canines and congenital cataracts--a syndrome? radiculomegaly of single teeth is very uncommon. our survey indicates that the canine tooth is most frequently affected. although illustrated in a number of texts of dental anatomy, there is a lack of detailed case reports.
isolation of a novel tumor protein that induces resistance to natural killer cell lysis. the human metastatic tumor cell line cap-2, produces a soluble factor that induces resistance to nk lysis of k-562 susceptible leukemia cell line, and does not inhibit the cytotoxic capacity of effector cells. the use of sequential hplc, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and reverse phase chromatography, coupled with cytotoxic assays, resulted in the isolation and separation to homogeneity of a novel protein responsible for this biologic activity. size estimation studies based on tsk hplc columns showed that this protein has a mass of 8 to 12 kda. the amino acid composition analysis of the cap-2 protein calculated from hplc chromatograms shows that this protein contains around 108 amino acids. subsequent gas phase sequence analysis, however, was hampered because the n terminus of this protein was blocked and therefore unsuitable for sequencing by edman degradation. the functional studies showed that the nk lysis-resistance activity of the cap-2 protein is mediated by interaction with and nonspecific binding to nk target cells. the lymphokine-activated killer and macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity and mitogen-induced proliferation is not affected. unexpectedly, the cap-2 protein appears to be mitogenic to its own cell line. thus, the induction of nk lysis-resistance and the mitogenic activity showed by cap-2 protein could contribute to the tumor growth and metastatic establishment.
intra-aortic balloon pump for combined myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic rupture. the coexistence of myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic injury is probably more common than recognized following rapid deceleration multisystem trauma. this report describes the successful application of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in a critically injured patient requiring emergent repair of a thoracic aortic tear complicated by ventricular failure due to cardiac contusion.
dysgeusia, gustatory sweating, and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma. facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors, both during their development and after excision, may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways. the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components. this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma. she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area. occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed. in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses, evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae.
patterns of chromosomal breakpoint locations in burkitt's lymphoma: relevance to geography and epstein-barr virus association. we have examined, by southern blotting, the patterns of chromosomal breakpoint locations in 55 cases of burkitt's lymphoma (bl) with respect to geography and epstein-barr virus (ebv) association. we have confirmed the association between chromosome 8 breakpoint and geography: 74% of endemic (ebl) but only 9% of sporadic bl (sbl) had breakpoints outside the hindiii fragment encompassing the c-myc gene (p2 less than .00001). conversely, not only did 91% of sbl manifest a rearranged hindiii fragment, but at least 56% of these cases, in contrast to 17% of ebl cases, had a breakpoint within the first exon or intron of c-myc (p2 less than .004). breakpoints outside the switch mu (s mu) region (ie, the hindiii fragment encompassing s mu) on chromosome 14 were twice as common overall (73%) as those within s mu (27%), but in the 15 tumors with s mu breakpoints, 13 (87%) had a rearranged c-myc gene. breakpoints outside the hindiii fragment encompassing c-myc on chromosome 8 were predominantly associated with non-s mu breakpoints on chromosome 14 (85%) and this was the combination most frequently associated with ebl (65%; 6% of sbl, p2 less than .00001). in sbl, the most frequent breakpoint combination was a rearranged c-myc gene with a non-s mu breakpoint (63%; 13% of ebl). twenty-eight percent of sbl and 13% of ebl had breakpoints both within c-myc and within s mu. ebv dna was present in 19 of 20 tumors with breakpoints outside c-myc, in none of 7 with a breakpoint in the immediate 5' region of c-myc, in 4 of 5 tumors with breakpoints in the first exon, and in 7 of 12 tumors with breakpoints in the first intron. these data suggest that the pathogeneses of ebl and sbl differ with regard to the mechanism of c-myc deregulation, and probably also with regard to the state of differentiation of the target cell for malignant transformation. we have formulated a testable hypothesis regarding the potential role of ebv in pathogenesis: that it is required to contribute to the deregulation of c-myc in the presence of some, but not all, types of c-myc damage arising from the chromosomal translocations.
obstruction of mechanical heart valve prostheses: clinical aspects and surgical management. one hundred patients (32 male) aged 5 months to 82 years (median 32 years) underwent 106 surgical procedures for 112 mechanical prosthetic valves obstructed by a thrombus (n = 61) or pannus (n = 7), or both (n = 44), between january 1, 1980 and december 31, 1989. the position of the obstructed prosthesis was aortic in 51 patients (48%), mitral in 49 (46%) and both aortic and mitral in 6 (6%). the types of obstructed prosthetic valves were bjork-shiley (n = 51), st. jude (n = 41) and medtronic-hall (n = 20). the time interval between valve replacement and obstruction ranged from 6 weeks to 13 years (median 4 years). of 63% of patients in whom coagulation variables were available at the time of obstruction, 70% were receiving inadequate anticoagulant therapy. in 63% of the procedures the patient was in new york heart association functional class iv. two patients underwent preoperative thrombolysis with incomplete results. operative procedures included valve replacement (n = 81), valve declotting and excision of pannus (n = 23) and aortic valve replacement and mitral valve declotting (n = 2). the early mortality rate was 12.3% (13 patients), and there was no difference between surgery for mitral prostheses (12.2%) versus aortic prostheses (13.7%). the perioperative mortality rate was 17.5% (11 of 63 patients) in patients in functional class iv and 4.7% (2 of 43 patients) in those in functional classes i to iii (p less than 0.05). for valve replacement, the mortality rate was 12% (10 of 81 patients) and for declotting of the prosthesis 13% (3 of 23 patients).
venous dysfunction of late pregnancy persists after delivery. pregnancy is associated with dvt, pelvic thrombophlebitis, and lower extremity varicosities. pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus is blamed. a prospective controlled study using plethysmography was performed. venous capacitance and outflow were measured at term, and at 1 week, 6 weeks and 3 months following delivery. results show decreased venous capacitance and venous outflow at term pregnancy, no improvement 1 week after delivery, modest improvement at 6 weeks, and dramatic statistically significant improvement in both parameters by 3 months. the persistence of venous dysfunction for several weeks after delivery indicates that changes in venous function at term pregnancy are largely the result of factors other than pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus.
clinical results of axillobifemoral bypass using externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene seventy-six axillobifemoral grafts with externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene prostheses were performed since 1983. the indications for operation were absolute (aortic sepsis) in 20 (26%) patients and relative (excessive operative risk or technical difficulty) in 56 (74%) patients. the life-table primary patency for these operations at 4 years follow-up (mean follow-up, 2 years, 4 months) was 85%. we conclude that the patency results achieved in this patient series are sufficiently satisfactory to warrant use of axillobifemoral grafts in an expanded number of patients with high operative risk and need for bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease.
long-term results of catheter ablation of idiopathic right ventricular tachycardia ten consecutive patients with recurrent episodes of symptomatic, idiopathic, sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt) originating in the right ventricle underwent an attempt at catheter ablation of the ventricular tachycardia. there were seven women and three men, with a mean age of 39 +/- 14 years (+/- sd). none of the patients had any evidence of structural heart disease. the vt had a left bundle branch block configuration and an inferior axis in each patient, and the mean cycle length was 313 +/- 75 msec. based on the methods of induction of the vt and the response of the vt to verapamil, the vt mechanism was presumed to be reentry in six patients, triggered activity in three patients, and catecholamine-sensitive automaticity in one patient. sites for ablation were guided by pace mapping, and an appropriate target site was identified in the right ventricular outflow tract in each patient. from one to three shocks of 100-360 j (mean total, 336 +/- 195 j) were delivered from a defibrillator between the tip of the ablation catheter (cathode) and a patch electrode on the anterior chest (anode). an electrophysiology test 7-9 days after ablation demonstrated that vt was still inducible in only one patient, who was treated with amiodarone. one other patient had a recurrence of vt 3 weeks after ablation and was treated with verapamil. eight of 10 patients were not treated with antiarrhythmic medications and have had no episodes of symptomatic vt during 15-68 months of follow-up (mean follow-up, 33 +/- 18 months). there were no acute or long-term complications.
malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue. a population-based epidemiologic and prognostic study of 137 patients. epidemiology and prognosis were analyzed in a consecutive, population-based series of 137 patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue in the extremities and trunk wall, with a complete follow-up of minimum 3 years. all but one patient were treated by surgery in 28 cases combined with adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy. the annual incidence was 0.42/10(5). the ratio men to women was 1.1. the median age was 64 years (range, 22 to 87 years). the thigh was the most common location. the median size was 6 cm. superficial tumors constituted 43% and were smaller than deep-seated tumors. eighty-three tumors were storiform-pleomorphic, 53 were myxoid, and one was of inflammatory type. the myxoid tumors were smaller and more often superficial. the cumulative 5-year survival rate for all patients was 0.7, but differed markedly between the histologic types; it was 1.0 in patients with myxoid tumors and 0.5 in patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors. in the 77 patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors without metastases at presentation, only tumor size larger than 10 cm and tumor necrosis independently impaired survival. the 23 patients who had none of these risk factors had a 5-year survival rate of 0.8.
sudden blindness after thermocoagulation of the trigeminal ganglion. sudden blindness during percutaneous thermocoagulation of the gasserian ganglion occurred in a 72-year-old woman with trigeminal neuralgia. considered a safe procedure, we highlight the possibility of this serious complication which was probably due to direct damage of the optic nerve.
dependence of doppler echocardiographic transmitral early peak velocity on left ventricular systolic function in coronary artery disease. the influence of systolic function on pulsed doppler echocardiographic transmitral flow velocity patterns was assessed before and after postextrasystolic (pes) potentiation in 12 normal subjects (control group) and in 25 patients with previous healed myocardial infarction (mi) group. simultaneous high-fidelity left ventricular pressure measurements were performed in all patients. a programmed single-coupled right ventricular extrasystole was induced during echocardiographic and subsequent cineangiocardiographic recordings. adequate angiograms for volumetric analysis in both baseline and pes beats were obtained in 23 patients (7 in the control group and 16 in the mi group). pes potentiation of contraction was more pronounced in the mi group than in the control group. pes changes in ejection fraction, stroke volume and end-systolic volume were significantly greater in the mi group than in the control group (11 vs 5%, p less than 0.005; 15 vs 5 ml/m2, p less than 0.005; and -13 vs -4 ml/m2, p less than 0.01, respectively). in contrast, pes potentiation prolonged the time constants of left ventricular pressure decline derived from exponential curve fits with a zero (tw) and non-zero (tb) asymptote pressure in the mi group to the same extent as in the control group (4 vs 5 ms, difference not significant [ns], and 9 vs 11 ms, ns, respectively). in the pes beat, peak e velocity remained unaltered (48 vs 49 cm/s, ns) in the control group, whereas it increased significantly (p less than 0.0001) from 47 to 51 cm/s in the mi group.
eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion. a manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. recently, the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, which is characterized by eosinophilia, myalgias, and several less consistently reported findings. we treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms. twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia, with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88. the remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined. eight patients complained of myalgias. other symptoms included arthralgias, pruritus, cutaneous burning, weakness, fever, rashes, malaise, edema, muscle spasms, and alopecia. 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested. our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases.
factor xiiia in nodular malignant melanoma and spitz naevi. the distribution of factor xiiia-positive dermal dendritic cells was studied in a series of nodular malignant melanomas and compared with that seen in spitz naevi. two patterns of distribution were recognizable: (a) diffusely spread through the tumour and (b) located mainly at the periphery of the tumour. these did not correlate with the diagnosis of melanoma or spitz naevus and the distribution appeared to be a function of growth pattern of the tumour. the diffuse pattern was the most common regardless of diagnosis and the distribution of factor xiiia-positive cells is the same in malignant melanoma and spitz naevi.
augmentation mentoplasty using mersilene mesh. many different materials are available for augmentation mentoplasty. however, the optimal implant material for chin implantation has yet to be found. during the past several years, a number of experienced surgeons have turned to the use of mersilene mesh. mersilene mesh is a non-absorbable dacron polyester fiber that can be conformed easily into layers to achieve tailored dimensions and shape. at the mccollough plastic surgery clinic pa, birmingham, ala, 277 patients over a 10-year period underwent chin augmentation with mersilene mesh implants. the material provides excellent tensile strength, durability, and surgical adaptability. the overall complication rate was 3.2% (nine patients); infection rate, 2.5% (seven patients); and removal secondary to infection, 1.7% (five patients). based on this 10-year experience, mersilene mesh remains our material of choice for chin augmentation.
helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in kuwait. two hundred and four patients, mainly arabs, attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in mubarak al-kabeer hospital, kuwait, were examined for evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation. biopsy specimens of antrum, body, and duodenum; gastric juice; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological, cytological, and histopathological methods. clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis, gastric ulcer, duodenitis and duodenal ulcer, but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae. h pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 (96.6%) of the patients. histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity, but bacteriological culture was less reliable. the proportion of positive cases was high, compared with other reported series, which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study, the selected population (all with gastrointestinal symptoms) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population.
preservation of oscillations in postocclusive reactive hyperemia. oscillations in skin blood flow (skbf) during postocclusive reactive hyperemia are believed to be due to locally mediated events in the microcirculation. we characterized the activity of these oscillations in nine healthy young men who underwent 0, 10, and 40 torr of lower body negative pressure (lbnp). postocclusive skbf was estimated in both forearms simultaneously in a stable thermal environment with laser-doppler velocimetry. periodic behavior of skbf was characterized by frequency-domain power spectral analysis. lbnp at 40 torr increased heart rate, decreased forearm blood flow, and decreased postocclusive skbf amplitude but did not change the periodicity of skbf in the frequency response range that is characteristic of postischemic skbf oscillations (0.11 +/- 0.04 hz). we observed that lbnp did not alter the frequency response of the postocclusive skbf as quantified in the periodogram, even though the amplitude of the skbf was markedly diminished as a part of the general decrease in arm blood flow. we found inferential evidence for a disseminated common pacemaker mechanism that performs similarly at distant sites. we conclude that the lbnp baroreflex-mediated modulation of skbf reduces the amplitude but does not change the frequency behavior of postocclusive skbf. we propose on the basis of our findings that the preservation of vasomotion suggests that this phenomenon is an adaptation to the ischemic changes induced by disruption of blood flow.
tuberculous tenosynovitis of the wrist. two case reports. tuberculosis was first described in 1756 by acrel in a case report. subsequent reports of musculoskeletal tuberculosis documented the uncommon occurrence of hand and wrist involvement. the two cases presented here demonstrate the difficulty in eradicating the organism even with modern regimens of chemotherapy. intraoperative gram's stain and frozen sections were useful to rule out other etiologies. firm diagnosis must be established by tissue culture. the first case appeared cured after thorough initial debridement and had no recurrence for 36 years. while recurrences are common in patients treated with debridement alone, most appear within one year after the index procedure. the amount of time that elapsed in this case is unusual and serves as a sobering reminder that tuberculosis may recur at a time distant from the initial procedure. the second patient had tuberculosis diagnosed elsewhere and was treated twice with antituberculous chemotherapy. although the first course of therapy for six months may have been inadequate, the second course with multiple drugs for 18 months would certainly be considered adequate; yet he had a recurrence in his wrist eight months after completing treatment. these two cases illustrate the fastidious nature of the mycobacterium tuberculosis organism and the need for a combined treatment protocol of meticulous surgical debridement and combined chemotherapy.
clinical and electrographic effects of acute anticonvulsant withdrawal in epileptic patients. we retrospectively investigated the effects of acute antiepileptic drug (aed) withdrawal on seizure symptomatology--including frequency, clinical features, and electrical onset--by studying 35 patients during evaluation for epilepsy surgery. the highest risk for both partial and secondary generalized seizures occurred during absent or subtherapeutic, and not during rapidly falling, aed levels. aed withdrawal had minimal effect on clinical symptomatology or electrographic onset.
anatomic correlations of the long-axis views in biplane transesophageal echocardiography. the number of views obtainable during transesophageal echocardiography (te) has been limited by the fixed position of the transducer at the end of the probe. this has confined standard te studies to short-axis tomography of the heart and aorta. recently, a biplane te probe has become available that is capable of both long- and short-axis imaging. this study prospectively assessed the application of the long-axis plane of the biplane probe in providing complementary long-axis views in ambulatory patients. six standard long-axis views could be obtained and were compared with corresponding anatomic sections to illustrate anatomic relations and facilitate structure identification. the long-axis views provide a better appreciation of the 3-dimensional nature of cardiac anatomy and function, especially in demonstrating the relation of vertically aligned structures.
stiff-man syndrome. stiff-man syndrome (moersch-woltman syndrome) is a rare disorder of motor function characterized by involuntary stiffness of axial muscles and superimposed painful muscle spasms, which are often induced by startle or emotional stimuli. the standard treatment has been benzodiazepines. an association has been reported between stiff-man syndrome and epilepsy, insulin-dependent diabetes, and a variety of organ-specific autoimmune disorders. antibodies directed against glutamic acid decarboxylase and against pancreatic islet cells have been detected in the serum and cerebrospinal of patients with stiff-man syndrome. these findings suggest that stiff-man syndrome may be an autoimmune disease. preliminary reports indicate that patients with stiff-man syndrome have a favorable response to plasma exchange and corticosteroid therapy.
features distinguishing secondary achalasia from primary achalasia. eighteen patients with cancer-induced or secondary achalasia (sa) were compared to 421 patients with idiopathic or primary achalasia (pa). the aim of the study was to detect any differences in clinical presentation between the two groups. mean age of patients with sa was 57.1 (range 15-78) and 47.1 (range 1-90) in patients with pa (p = 0.02). three patients with sa were 15, 24, and 36 yr old, respectively. symptom frequency was comparable in sa versus pa. mean duration of symptoms in sa was 4.5 months, with 15 of the 18 patients experiencing symptoms for six months or less. weight loss occurred in 88.2% of patients with sa and 57.3% of patients with pa (p less than 0.05). cancer was at the gastroesophageal junction in 16 patients, duodenum in one, and breast in one. endoscopy showed tumor in 12 (67%). the esophagram was suspicious for tumor in only 25%. we conclude that patients with sa are older, more likely to lose weight, and have a short duration of symptoms. however, sa may occur in younger patients, and endoscopy with biopsy is necessary in any newly diagnosed case of achalasia.
a technique for improving accuracy of the pulmonary artery diastolic pressure as an estimate of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. pulmonary artery diastolic pressure (pad) is often used to estimate left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (lvedp) when artifact, respiratory variation, or technical difficulties make the wedge pressure difficult to identify on the waveform. to determine which point on the pad waveform best estimated lvedp, we performed studies in 100 adults undergoing routine diagnostic cardiac catheterization. during normal spontaneous respiration, simultaneous recordings of the electrocardiogram, pad, and lvedp were obtained. three end-expiratory measurements of pad were recorded: at the lowest point on the waveform (pad), at 0.04 seconds (pad 0.04), and at 0.08 seconds (pad 0.08) after the onset of the qrs complex. the pads were correlated with lvedp by linear regression. pad 0.08 correlated best with lvedp (r = 0.88, standard error of the estimate [see] = 3.6 mm hg) whereas pad 0.04 and pad correlated slightly less strongly (r = 0.86, see = 4.0 mm hg; r = 0.82, see = 4.4 mm hg respectively). therefore, when the wedge pressure is not easily determined, pad 0.08 may be the best point on the waveform to use when attempting to estimate lvedp in the clinical setting.
clinical relevance of immunohistochemical detection of multidrug resistance p-glycoprotein in breast carcinoma in 20 women with breast carcinoma, 17 of whom had locally advanced cancer and 3 of whom had confirmed metastases, the expression of p-glycoprotein was evaluated before the start of a chemotherapy regimen that included multidrug resistance-related drugs. with the use of the c494 monoclonal antibody in an avidin-biotin-immunoperoxidase technique, p-glycoprotein was detected in 17 of 20 tumor samples. results were expressed in a semiquantitative manner, taking into account the number of positive tumor cells (n index) and the specific staining intensity (i index). the 17 patients with nonmetastatic cancer were followed from the first cycle of chemotherapy to cancer recurrence; subsequent to six cycles of chemotherapy, all of these patients except one were rendered clinically disease-free through surgery and/or radiation. the end point was defined as either local/regional recurrence or metastasis. strong p-glycoprotein-positive staining in a majority of tumor cells (the n+/i+ phenotype) was significantly correlated with no initial response to chemotherapy (p less than .02) and with a shorter progression-free survival (p less than .02). thus, the pretreatment evaluation of p-glycoprotein expression may be of prognostic value in patients with locally advanced breast cancer.
giant intradiploic epidermoid tumor of the occipital bone: case report. the authors describe a case of a giant intradiploic epidermoid cyst of the occipital bone with an intracranial extension in the posterior fossa and no signs of neurological involvement. the lesion started as a painless lump under the scalp. roentgenographic and computed tomographic findings led to a correct diagnosis, and the complete removal of the cyst was accomplished, despite its large size. the total removal of these cysts is associated with a good prognosis.
chronic pain--assessment of orthopedic physical therapists' knowledge and attitudes. orthopedic physical therapists' knowledge of pain mechanisms and methods of pain management and their attitudes toward working with patients with benign chronic pain were studied. a random sample of 500 members of the american physical therapy association's section on orthopaedics received by mail a 36-item questionnaire. statistical analysis of scores, using frequencies, means, and correlations was performed on the 119 (23.8%) usable returns. all but 4% of the respondents preferred to work with patients who are not likely to have chronic pain. seventy-two percent believed their entry-level education in pain management and theory was very inadequate or less than adequate to deal with an orthopedic patient population. pain knowledge scores were low (35.8 out of 46 points), and the scores on positive attitudes toward treating patients with benign chronic pain were lower (20.5 out of 36 points). the study suggests specific deficiencies in orthopedic physical therapists' knowledge of clinical pain mechanisms and management and potentially undesirable attitudes toward treating patients with chronic pain.
dapsone is an effective therapy for the skin lesions of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and urticarial vasculitis in a patient with c2 deficiency. the deficiency of second component of complement (c2d) is the most common hereditary complement deficiency. patients with c2 deficiency are frequently associated with an auto-immune disease process, in particular, systemic lupus erythematosus (le)-like syndrome and/or vasculitic syndrome or bacterial infections. c2d has been associated with the le subset of subacute cutaneous le (scle), the presence of anti-ro (ssa) antibodies, and the human leukocyte antigen (hla) types a10, b18, dr2. we describe the clinical, serologic and immunogenetic data in a patient with manifestations of sjogren's syndrome who developed urticarial vasculitis and photosensitive annular scle which were effectively treated with oral dapsone. our case illustrates the dynamic nature of le.
prognostic significance of conjugate eye deviation in stroke patients. we prospectively studied the prognostic significance of conjugate eye deviation in 80 patients with acute stroke and compared the 3-month mortality and disability of these patients to those of the tilburg epidemiological study of stroke. mortality of patients with conjugate eye deviation was higher (41%) than for the general stroke population (34%), but this difference was not statistically significant (p less than 0.179). looking at mortality and disability together, we found the outcome of patients with conjugate eye deviation to be significantly worse (p less than 0.001). deviation of the eyes occurred more frequently to the right (65%) than to the left (35%). in the patient group with eye deviation to the left, mortality was significantly higher (64%, p less than 0.001) than in the group with eye deviation to the right (25%); only two patients of the former group (n = 28) could return home. compared to the tilburg epidemiological study of stroke, the group with eye deviation to the left did significantly worse, both for mortality alone (p less than 0.001) and for mortality and disability together (p less than 0.001). the group with eye deviation to the right did significantly worse only for mortality and disability together (p less than 0.01). our results indicate that conjugate eye deviation is a prognostic factor for poor short-term mortality and disability in stroke patients, especially when the eyes are deviated to the left.
psychological reaction to hospitalization and illness in the emergency department. each personality type presents with different methods of coping. physicians should be aware of the impact on a patient's psychological functioning and ability to cope with illness and hospitalization, to understand and more effectively manage the patient. the physician must try to assess the patient's baseline personality from their past and present behavior. establishing a good physician-patient relationship is important as a source of information about behavior of patients and how they will respond to their illness. depending on the specific personality type, each patient will respond differently to the stress of illness. the effort of the emergency physician to identify personality types will aid in medical management of the patient and enable the physician to help each patient cope effectively with the illness and the hospitalization. the specific issues that seem to be threatening to traumatized patients include the following: helplessness, humiliation, blurring of body image, and gaps in memory filled with distortions. the traumatized patient experiences an altered state of consciousness which is either due to a physiologic cause or an emotional cause. emotional causes are usually based on defensive dissociation. people who have been in an auto accident characteristically report loss of memory of the intense pain that the accident produces initially. oftentimes, the core experience for the traumatic patient is not somatic, it is unconscious. the interesting feature is that so many patients do not remember the accident. the mind seems to be filled with all kinds of distortions and irrelevant and perhaps totally inconsistent fantasies, such as imprisonment, confinement, or deathlike experiences. some report that they are being incarcerated, others recall being in a featureless cubicle with no contact with the normal world in which there are no windows, no pictures, no flowers. others remember only being surrounded by masked, hatted, uniformed wardens who are standing over them with nasogastric tubes, intravenous lines, foley catheters, arterial blood gases, subclavians, and dermal cut-downs. this is an overwhelming nightmare that can be relieved only by the empathic and caring physician and emergency department staff. the stress of medical illness and/or hospitalization can be overwhelming for some patients and is usually followed by some form of psychological response. current understanding of the psychological impact of illness is based upon psychological defenses, coping mechanisms, and individual personality. it is the ability of the emergency physician to identify defenses, coping skills and personality types that will aid him or her in the medical management of the patients in their time of illness and hospitalization.
prevalence and correlates of increased lung/heart ratio of thallium-201 during dipyridamole stress imaging for suspected coronary artery disease. there is little information concerning the prevalence and clinical correlates of increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake during dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging. accordingly, the clinical characteristics and quantitative thallium-201 findings were correlated with quantitative lung/heart thallium-201 ratio in 87 patients undergoing dipyridamole thallium-201 stress testing. nineteen patients (22%) had an elevated ratio (greater than 0.51). these patients were more likely to have had an infarction, to be taking beta blockers, and have a lower rate-pressure product after dipyridamole administration than those with a normal ratio (p less than 0.03). an elevated ratio was associated with a greater likelihood of initial, redistribution and persistent defects, as well as left ventricular cavity dilatation on thallium-201 imaging (p less than 0.05). in addition, the number of myocardial segments demonstrating initial, redistribution and persistent defects was also greater in patients with increased ratios (p less than 0.03). multivariate analysis demonstrated that the presence of redistribution and left ventricular cavity dilatation were the most significant correlates of lung/heart thallium-201 ratio. it is concluded that the prevalence of increased lung/heart thallium-201 ratio with dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging is similar to that seen with exercise stress imaging. as with exercise thallium-201 imaging, increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake may be a marker of functionally more significant coronary artery disease.
crico-tracheal disruption and common carotid artery occlusion: a case of blunt trauma. a case of blunt trauma to the neck is presented. while driving an all terrain vehicle (atv), a 20-yr-old male was struck across the anterior neck by a cord suspended between two poles. initial findings were suggestive of an isolated laryngeal injury; 48 hours later, however, a dense left hemiplegia became manifest. a ct scan demonstrated a large right frontoparietal cerebral infarct, and an angiogram confirmed occlusion of the right common carotid artery. intractable cerebral oedema developed, and the patient died five days after the initial insult. such injuries should alert the clinician to the possibility of major vascular injury, and if suspected, angiography is warranted.
usefulness of fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration as early indicator of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence in crohn's disease. the aim of this study was to evaluate in crohn's disease the possible usefulness of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration in the early detection of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence. eleven adult patients with small bowel crohn's disease undergoing elective resection were enrolled in the study and prospectively followed for one year. three, six, and 12 months after surgery the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were measured, and the disease activity was assessed. all patients were free of active symptoms throughout the study. one year after surgery small bowel radiology was performed in all patients. radiographic evidence of recurrent macroscopic disease was found in five of the 11 patients. three months after surgery both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were significantly lower (p less than 0.01) than before surgery. there was no difference at this time between patients with recurrence and those with no recurrence. in patients with recurrence both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration significantly increased at six months in comparison with the values at three months (p less than 0.02). both measurements were significantly higher at six and 12 months in this group of patients than in those with no recurrence and in normal controls (p less than 0.01). at six and 12 months alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was above the upper normal limit in all patients with recurrence. we conclude that fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance is a noninvasive, inexpensive, sensitive marker of asymptomatic recurrence in cd patients who are under regular supervision after surgery.
changes in anxiety among abstinent male alcoholics. symptoms of anxiety are prevalent features of alcoholics seeking treatment. in the present study levels of state anxiety among male primary alcoholics (with no preexisting major psychiatric disorders) were examined 3 times per week during inpatient treatment for alcoholism and again at 3 months following treatment. the 171 male alcoholics also completed the trait scale of the state trait anxiety inventory upon admission to an inpatient program and at 3 months following treatment. results indicate that recently detoxified males experience multiple anxiety symptoms, with 40% reporting significantly elevated levels of state anxiety at admission (greater than or equal to 75th percentile). by the second week of treatment state anxiety scores typically returned to the normal range although symptoms continued to decrease significantly with each week of continued abstinence. elevated levels of anxiety symptoms were more common among primary alcoholics with a history of panic episodes or generalized anxiety disorder symptoms. while abstainers and relapsers did not differ in level of anxiety observed during treatment, the relapsers report significantly higher state and trait anxiety scores at follow-up.
passage of a colon 'cast' after anoabdominal rectal resection. report of a case. the authors report a case of the passage of a total colonic j-pouch "cast" per anus after anoabdominal rectal resection and colonic j-pouch-anal anastomosis. this occurred without development of cuff abscess and was not due to occlusion of the inferior mesenteric artery. this was successfully treated, with preservation of anal function, with resection of the colonic j-pouch by transanal approach.
intraoperative fine needle aspiration cytology of pancreatic lesions. the aim of the present study was to demonstrate the practicality of intraoperative fine needle aspiration (fna) cytology of pancreatic lesions in 43 patients. the indication for performing this procedure was to determine the nature of pancreatic masses. conclusive cytologic diagnoses were reached in 41 patients who represent the present study. on the basis of histologic findings in 30 cases (73.2%) and on clinical findings in 11 cases (26.8%), a final diagnosis of malignant pancreatic disease (mpd) was established in 31 and of benign pancreatic disease (bpd) in 10 patients. among the 31 cases with mpd, the cytologic diagnosis was correct in 30 patients and falsely negative in one patient. among 10 patients with bpd, all the cytologic finding were reported as benign. the sensitivity and specificity and positive and negative predictive values for cytologic findings were 96.8%, 100%, 100%, and 90.9%, respectively. the diagnostic accuracy of fna cytology was 97.6%. no complications followed the procedure. we conclude that intraoperative fna cytology of pancreatic lesions is a simple, safe, highly sensitive, and specific tool in differentiating benign from malignant pancreatic lesions. this procedure should be carried out in any patient with pancreatic mass incidentally found at laparotomy or in a patient undergoing surgery because of suspected nonmetastasizing mpd in whom repeated imaging guided fna failed to demonstrate malignancy.
comparison of frequency of late potentials in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiomyopathy with advanced congestive heart failure and their usefulness in predicting sudden death. signal-averaged electrocardiograms were obtained in 62 consecutive patients with advanced congestive heart failure (chf) undergoing evaluation for possible heart transplantation to determine if late potentials: (1) provide unique information compared to assessment of ventricular ectopic activity on ambulatory electrocardiogram, and (2) identify a subgroup of chf patients with higher sudden death risk. patients with a history of cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachycardia were excluded. chf was due to old myocardial infarction in 40 patients and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in 22 patients. late potentials were present in 16 of 40 (40%) patients with old infarction but in only 3 of 22 (14%) patients with nonischemic chf (p = 0.03). twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were obtained in 34 patients (55%). total ventricular ectopic activity and repetitive forms of ectopy were similar in patients with and without late potentials. nine patients died suddenly, 9 had nonsudden death, 15 underwent heart transplantation and 29 were alive and well after a mean follow-up of 218 +/- 154 days. at 1 year, the actuarial risk of death was 37% and of sudden death was 20%. sudden death risk was 12% in patients with late potentials versus 21% in those without (p = 0.73). thus, the incidence of the arrhythmia substrate producing late potentials depends on the chf etiology. the signal-averaged electrocardiogram and ambulatory electrocardiogram provide independent information for possible risk assessment in chf. however, late potentials are poor predictors of sudden death risk when chf is advanced, possibly due to the heterogeneity of causes of sudden death--ventricular tachycardia being only 1 of many possible mechanisms.
insensitivity of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy after heart transplant. obstructive coronary artery vasculopathy can be a major problem after cardiac transplant. the use of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy was studied in 73 consecutive patients after heart transplant. angiographically or autopsy-proved coronary artery disease was noted in 19 consecutive patients (26%) followed prospectively for 2.5 +/- 1.3 years (mean +/- standard deviation). patients underwent yearly surveillance echocardiographic, rest/exercise-gated wall motion, oral dipyridamole thallium, ambulatory electrocardiographic monitor and angiographic studies. positive test results were defined by decrease in ejection fraction, wall motion abnormality, failure to increase ejection fraction, lack of systolic blood pressure increase, and ischemic st changes at maximal exercise (or on ambulatory monitor). wall motion abnormalities and depressed ejection fraction on echocardiography were also abnormal studies as were fixed or reversible perfusion defects on thallium scan. angiograms were considered positive when 50% luminal narrowing was observed and autopsy coronary artery vasculopathy was defined as cross-sectional coronary obstruction greater than or equal to 70%. no procedure that was examined proved to be a sensitive noninvasive detector of heart transplant coronary artery vasculopathy. all except ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring had positive predictive values less than 50%. interestingly, of the techniques evaluated, echocardiography was most sensitive (53%). the poor predictive ability of noninvasive testing in this population may be due to the fact that these tests are designed to detect effects of ischemia rather than coronary obstruction alone. use of these particular noninvasive modalities routinely after heart transplant to detect coronary artery vasculopathy should be reconsidered because of their low sensitivity and predictive value when used as a surveillance screen.
cardiopulmonary perfusion and cerebral blood flow in bilateral carotid artery disease the fear of cerebral complications after cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heart disease and severe carotid artery disease has led many authors to suggest combined approaches in these patients. the pathogenetic mechanism for stroke is based partly on the stenotic narrowing of the carotid artery. a diameter reduction of 75% is frequently considered hemodynamically significant and indicative of an increased risk for neurological morbidity. we studied the cerebral blood flow in 7 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting who also had severe bilateral carotid disease. the results were compared with the results in 17 patients without carotid disease who had bypass grafting. the cerebral blood flow was measured by xenon 133 washout technique before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia. acid-base regulation was according to the alpha-stat theory, and blood pressure was kept greater than 50 mm hg. the cerebral blood flow levels (ml.100g-1.min-1) before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass in the study group (30 +/- 11, 31 +/- 8, 47 +/- 20) (mean +/- standard deviation) were almost identical to those in the control group (30 +/- 11, 28 +/- 8, 47 +/- 12). the cerebral blood flow levels for the left and right hemispheres in the group with carotid disease were comparable and within normal ranges. in 2 patients, slight differences were noted between hemispheres, and this finding may indicate an increased risk for ischemia. these patients, however, did not show any signs of postoperative deficit. the flow limitations of critical carotid stenoses do not seem to imply a risk for cerebral hypoperfusion if cardiopulmonary perfusion is performed in a controlled manner.
cellular immunodeficiency in protein-losing enteropathy. predominant reduction of cd3+ and cd4+ lymphocytes. cellular immunological abnormalities were studied in a patient with protein-losing enteropathy associated with constrictive pericarditis. analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood showed lymphopenia with a decrease of cd3+ and cd4+ t cells, whereas cd8+ lymphocytes, b cells and nk cells were within the normal range. fecal loss of lymphocytes as a cause of lymphopenia was evidenced by a marked excretion of 111-indium-labeled peripheral blood mononuclear cells via stool. proliferative responses against several mitogens were severely reduced as was in vitro igg production. delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction against a variety of antigens was absent. vaccination with tick-borne encephalitis virus, used for primary immunization, and with the recall antigen tetanus toxoid resulted in a blunted antibody response. after pericardectomy, the severity of enteric protein loss declined, serum immunoglobulin levels returned to the normal range, and total lymphocytes and cd3+ and cd4+ counts increased but remained low even 12 months after surgery. fecal loss of lymphocytes was found to be reduced after pericardectomy, but was higher than that seen in a disease control patient with active inflammatory bowel disease. in vitro immunoglobulin production returned to normal, dth could be demonstrated against purified protein derivative and proteus antigen, but mitogen-driven blastogenic response of lymphocytes remained low. revaccination with tick-borne encephalitis and tetanus toxoid antigens seven months after surgery resulted in a dramatic increase of serum levels of antibodies against both antigens, comparable to that seen in healthy control individuals.
seizures in the alcoholic patient. the first international symposium on alcohol and seizures (september 1988, washington, dc) convened experts from north america and europe to discuss the basic and clinical research findings in this field. most of the observations communicated at this symposium are included in this article. emergency physicians are familiar with the alcoholic patient who presents during or after a seizure(s). this familiarity must not obscure the fact that a significant minority of these patients will have an underlying process that can cause morbidity or mortality if the unsuspecting physician does not have an organized and methodic approach to the evaluation and management of the seizing alcoholic patient. status epilepticus should be evaluated and treated in a similar fashion, whether or not the patient is an alcoholic. otherwise, almost without exception, there are nuances and controversies with respect to the evaluation and management of the alcoholic patient with a seizure(s), from the indications for ct scan, to the proper role of sedatives and anticonvulsants, and the need for admission. the emergency physician must remain a patient advocate. the great majority of alcoholic patients with seizures who require admission can be treated satisfactorily at the hospital of presentation.
elevated plasma beta-endorphin levels in patients with congestive heart failure recent experimental studies show that the opioid system is important to the pathophysiology of cardiovascular impairment in congestive heart failure. plasma beta-endorphin levels were measured in 37 patients with congestive heart failure and compared with those of 21 age- and gender-matched normal subjects. the relation of plasma beta-endorphin levels and cardiac function at rest and exercise capacity was assessed in 17 of the patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. exercise capacity was determined by symptom-limited maximal treadmill exercise with expired gas analysis. plasma beta-endorphin levels were elevated and correlated with the patients' new york heart association functional cardiac status (control: 14.0 +/- 4.4 pg/ml; class ii: 17.9 +/- 3.6 pg/ml; class iii: 28.3 +/- 8.8 pg/ml; class iv: 46.7 +/- 14.6 pg/ml, mean +/- sd). no relation was found between plasma beta-endorphin levels and left ventricular systolic performance as assessed by m-mode and doppler echocardiography. plasma beta-endorphin levels were negatively correlated with cardiac output determined by doppler echocardiography and positively correlated with systemic vascular resistance (r = -0.733, r = 0.747, respectively, both p less than 0.001), but not correlated with calf blood flow as measured by a plethysmography. a good correlation was found between plasma beta-endorphin levels at rest and exercise capacity. the correlations with peak oxygen consumption, anaerobic threshold, and peak rate-pressure product were r = -0.721, -0.672, and -0.674, respectively (p less than 0.01). the data show that plasma beta-endorphin levels are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure and reflect, to some degree, the severity of the disease.
nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute, multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. we report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated mycobacterium avium infection, in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks. multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques. the epidemiology, possible pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnostic imaging, and therapy are reviewed. early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with "cryptic" myalgia is recommended.
causes of death in the elderly and their changing pattern in hisayama, a japanese community. results from a long-term and autopsy-based study. the causes of death for the elderly were prospectively studied in hisayama, japan, a rural community. we compared 1,621 subjects, aged 40 years or over, recruited in 1961, and 2,053 subjects recruited in 1974. each cohort was studied in a follow-up that lasted 10 years; they had autopsy rates of 82.1% and 86.1% during each 10-year period, respectively. the most common causes of death for those aged 70 years or over were cerebrovascular disease, malignant neoplasms, and pneumonia. deaths due to cerebrovascular disease tended to decrease in the recent cohort, but the proportion of decline was more prominent in cases aged 40 to 69 years. there was a sex difference in the changing pattern of mortality from heart diseases including ischemic heart disease. deaths by both heart diseases and ischemic heart disease increased in the more recent cohort of aged women, whereas they decreased in the aged men. pneumonia was an important cause of death for the elderly in both cohorts. deaths due to "senility" were rare, being only 1% of the deceased aged 70 or over. with prolonged lifespan, especially for women, the impact of atherosclerosis and its related disorders on the recent japanese aged population appears to have increased.
clinicopathologic characteristics of adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung. fifty-six cases of surgically resected adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung were studied clinicopathologically, and their outcome was compared with that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. the frequency rate of adenosquamous carcinoma was 2.6% of 2160 primary lung cancers resected in the national cancer center hospital (tokyo, japan). the survival curves of patients with adenosquamous carcinomas, adenocarcinomas, and squamous cell carcinomas indicated that the outcome of adenosquamous carcinoma was poorer than that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas, particularly in stages i and ii. the amount of adenocarcinoma component did not affect the survival rate, although the histologic features of metastatic lymph nodes was somewhat influenced by the histologic type of the primary tumors. the histologic subtype of adenosquamous carcinoma was one of the independent prognostic determinants.
value of ventricular electrogram recordings in the diagnosis of arrhythmias precipitating electrical device shock therapy. an antitachycardia pacemaker-cardioverter-defibrillator that is capable of storing ventricular electrograms before and after delivery of device shock therapy was implanted in 16 patients. three of the patients experienced out-of-hospital device shock therapy preceded by minimal symptoms. although limitations of electrogram analysis exist and are discussed, careful analysis and registration of electrograms during all supraventricular and ventricular rhythms observed during in-hospital testing served as an important reference for subsequent arrhythmia diagnosis. by analyzing the electrogram rate and rr interval stability and configuration, a definitive diagnosis was established in all three patients (atrial fibrillation, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and rate-sensing lead disruption, respectively). thus, the ability to store ventricular electrograms before shock therapy represents a major advance in the management of patients who receive an electrical device to treat ventricular tachyarrhythmia.
captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice. i have reported a case of captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice. this drug is being used with increasing frequency, so it is important that physicians recognize this adverse effect. captopril-induced jaundice resolves after cessation of captopril therapy.
survival after groin dissection for malignant melanoma. groin dissection was performed in 158 patients with malignant melanoma (superficial dissection, 76 patients; radical dissection, 82 patients). of 63 patients with palpable nodes, 57 patients (90%) had histologic involvement. of 93 patients with nonpalpable nodes, 31 patients (33%) had histologically positive nodes. the 5-year survival rate for patients with histologically negative nodes (n = 69) was 77%; the 5-year survival rate for patients with histologically positive nodes (n = 89) was 43%. the respective 5-year disease-free survival rates were 72% and 34%. of 57 patients with palpable, positive inguinal nodes, 21 patients (37%) had involvement of the deep nodes. of 31 patients with nonpalpable, histologic involvement of the inguinal nodes, six patients (19%) had or developed involvement of the deep nodes. one of two patients with uncertain clinical status of the nodes preoperatively had positive deep nodes. in prophylactic node dissection, frozen section of the inguinal group of the nodes does not provide a reliable method, because of sampling errors, in determining microscopic involvement of the nodes and in deciding whether a superficial or radical groin dissection is to be done. for patients with positive nodes the 5-year survival rate was 48% when only the inguinal group was involved and was 28% when both inguinal and deep nodes were involved; the respective 5-year disease-free survival rates were 39% and 20%. survival after therapeutic groin dissection may partly depend on the thoroughness of the procedure. patients who have positive, deep nodes and who are undergoing an incontinuity dissection of the inguinal, iliac, and obturator nodes have an appreciable 5-year survival rate.
pancreatic response to percutaneous biliary drainage: a prospective study. to evaluate the effects of percutaneous biliary drainage (pbd) on the pancreas, serum amylase levels were measured for 7 consecutive days after pbd and compared with baseline values in 50 patients who underwent a total of 53 pbd procedures. of the 45 patients with normal baseline serum amylase levels, 12 patients (24%) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia without clinical symptoms and five patients (10%) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia with clinical signs of pancreatitis. five patients who presented with elevated baseline serum amylase levels demonstrated decreases into the normal range after placement of stents without initiation of bowel rest or liquid diet. the level of biliary obstruction proved insignificant, as did the nature of the obstructing disease, in determining which patients would experience hyperamylasemia or pancreatitis after pbd. it is concluded that the frequency of pancreatic insult from pbd may be more common than previously reported and that patient susceptibility is not dependent on the level of biliary obstruction or the nature of the disease.
neuroanatomy of fragile x syndrome: the posterior fossa. the occurrence and specificity of posterior fossa abnormalities as measured from magnetic resonance images of the brain were investigated in a group of 14 males with fragile x syndrome and comparison groups consisting of 17 males with other causes of developmental disability and 18 males with normal iqs. the size of the posterior cerebellar vermis was significantly decreased and the fourth ventricle significantly increased in the group of males with fragile x syndrome compared with males in both comparison groups. these neuroanatomical abnormalities appeared to be secondary to hypoplasia rather than atrophy.
helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia: a prospective controlled study. although some authors believe that helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis, it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event. this study documents the prevalence of h. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age-, race-, and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects. all subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus. a sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies (immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin g) to h. pylori. the prevalence of h. pylori (by biopsy) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls (11% vs. 71%, p less than 0.0001). all patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology (inflammation and/or atrophy). in addition, 50% of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum. all controls with h. pylori had gastritis, 50% having active chronic gastritis. atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia (75% vs. 7%, p less than 0.0001). serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia: all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results, whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies. in conclusion, patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with h. pylori, and h. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process.
crohn's disease and pregnancy. seventy-eight pregnancies in 50 patients were reviewed to evaluate the effects of crohn's disease on the outcome of pregnancy and the influence of the pregnancy on the course of crohn's disease. overall, 21 pregnancies (27 percent) had abnormal outcomes including spontaneous abortions (9), infants small for gestational age (6), premature infants (5), and infants who developed respiratory distress (1). eight (50 percent) patients with active disease compared with 13 (21 percent) patients with inactive disease at conception had abnormal outcomes (p less than 0.05). during pregnancy 15 (55 percent) with active disease and 6 (12 percent) with inactive disease had an abnormal outcome (p less than 0.001). neither medical nor surgical treatment, independent of disease activity, appeared to affect the outcome adversely. eighteen of 73 (25 percent) patients with quiescent or mild disease relapsed, and seven of 16 patients with some disease activity improved (44 percent). of 34 patients on medication, nine relapsed (27 percent), and of 39 patients not on medication, nine relapsed (24 percent) (p = n.s.). these results suggest that the outcome of pregnancy is not adversely affected by crohn's disease. however, patients with active disease at conception and/or during the pregnancy have poorer outcomes independent of the use of medication or requirement of surgery. neither pregnancy nor medications taken affect the course of the disease.
injury biomechanics of the human cervical column. in this study, the authors have developed a technique to replicate clinically relevant traumatic cervical spine injuries and determined the injury biomechanics. because of the importance of compressive forces in neck injuries, this research was conducted using compression as the primary load vector. six fresh human cadaveric head-neck complexes were prepared by fixing the distal end in methylmethacrylate. tests were done with varying loading rates to include quasistatic and dynamic conditions. for quasistatic experiments, the proximal end was fixed to the piston of the testing device. in dynamic tests, the cranium was unconstrained, and to maintain stability, the effects of the spinal musculature were simulated by means of pulleys, deadweights, and springs in the anterior and posterior parts of the head-neck complex. quasistatic tests conducted at a rate of 2.0 mm/sec produced cervical spine trauma at forces ranging from 1.7 to 2.3 kn, with deformations ranging from 2.2 to 3.7 cm. the specimens were deep-frozen at the level of injury, preserving the local deformation of the tissues to enable a detailed evaluation immediately after the injury. dynamic tests conducted at velocities of 3.2 to 5.7 m/sec resulted in impact injuries at one level of the head-neck complex. the applied forces at the vertex were considerably higher than those recorded at the distal end. the failure deformations for both the quasistatic (2.2-3.7 cm) and dynamic (1.7-3.2 cm) tests, however, were found to be similar, suggesting that the human head-neck complex is a deformation-sensitive structure.
physical examination and echo doppler study in the assessment of femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization. femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization have been well recognized. the development of an inguinal mass in these patients can represent a simple hematoma, a pseudoaneurysm, or an arteriovenous fistula. the utility of the physical examination in diagnosing these complications was assessed by using the echo doppler study for comparison. this study shows that any single clinical sign should not be used in isolation, but a constellation of physical findings can suggest the correct diagnosis.
nuclear grading of breast carcinoma by image analysis. classification by multivariate and neural network analysis. the use of nuclear grade as a prognostic indicator for breast carcinoma has been limited by interobserver variability. advances in image analysis and automated cell classification offer one approach to this problem. the authors used the cas-100 (cell analysis system. elmhurst, il) system to measure and analyze nuclear morphometric and texture features of cytologic preparations from 35 breast carcinomas (well, moderate, and poorly differentiated) as well as benign lesions. morphometric and markovian texture feature data from breast cancer nuclei of various grades comprised a training set, which was then used to establish classification criteria by multivariate (bayesian) analysis and to train a neural network system. both systems were tested for the ability to classify the nuclear grade of individual nuclei. there was good agreement between computer classification and the grade assigned by human observer to individual nuclei using either bayesian or neural network analysis. thirty-one unknown cases, which were assigned an overall grade by an observer, were then analyzed by computer, and an overall grade assigned based on the grade of nucleus most frequently present. using this method, both classification systems were able to assign a "correct" grade to low-grade lesions (approximately 70% correct) more often than to high-grade tumors (approximately 20%). difficulty in computer assignment of high-grade tumors was explained by nuclear heterogeneity in these tumors (i.e., although the percentage of high-grade nuclei was increased compared with that of low-grade tumors, high-grade nuclei frequently did not predominate). the authors present this study to demonstrate the feasibility of using image analysis as an objective means of nuclear grading. further studies will be needed to establish criteria for assigning overall nuclear grade based on computer analysis of imaging data.
which clinical variables predict an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result? objective: to determine the relations among patient history, symptoms, objective indicators, and abnormal double-contrast barium enema results in outpatients. patients and setting: seven hundred and ninety-four patients receiving care in a large multispecialty medical group. design: physicians completed a form before ordering a double-contrast barium enema, listing information about patient history, symptoms, and objective findings, including the results of a complete blood count, stool hemoccult, and sigmoidoscopy. measurements and main results: outcome measures were colon cancer and any abnormal finding. the results of 18.6% of the barium enemas were abnormal. the most frequent positive findings were of polyps (8.8%) and colon cancer (2.9%). over 50% of the barium enemas were ordered solely on the basis of symptoms, yet there was no statistical correlation between symptoms and colon cancer or any positive finding. using logistic regression, four variables were shown to be significant predictors of colon cancer (p less than 0.05): abnormal sigmoidoscopy, iron deficiency anemia, positive stool hemoccult results, and relevant history. the respective odds ratios of these variables were 3.76 (95% ci, 2.89 to 4.90); 2.86 (ci, 2.13 to 3.74); 1.87 (ci, 1.46 to 2.39); and 1.91 (ci, 1.44 to 2.52), respectively. in a patient without any of these indicators, the predicted probability of having colon cancer was only 0.7%. in a patient with at least two objective indicators, the probability of having colon cancer was greater than 15%. conclusions: symptoms without objective indicators or pertinent risk factors do not correlate with an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result. objective indicators are useful predictors of an abnormal barium enema result, particularly when looking for colon cancer.
igg and iga antibodies to the collagen-like region of c1q in rheumatoid vasculitis. we investigated the presence of igg and iga antibodies to c1q in serum samples from 80 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra), 31 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis, and 80 healthy controls. igg and iga antibodies to c1q, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, were found in less than 5% of the sera from ra patients and from healthy controls. in contrast, igg and iga antibodies to c1q were found in 29% and 61%, respectively, of the sera from patients with rheumatoid vasculitis. the occurrence of iga antibodies to c1q has not been previously demonstrated. these results also demonstrate that igg antibodies to c1q do not occur exclusively in systemic lupus erythematosus patients: sera of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis frequently contain igg or iga antibodies to c1q, which contribute to immune complex formation.
steroids induce acetylcholine receptors on cultured human muscle: implications for myasthenia gravis. antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (achr), which are diagnostic of the human autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis, block achr function and increase the rate of achr degradation leading to impaired neuromuscular transmission. steroids are frequently used to alleviate symptoms of muscle fatigue and weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis because of their well-documented immunosuppressive effects. we show here that the steroid dexamethasone significantly increases total surface achrs on cultured human muscle exposed to myasthenia gravis sera. our results suggest that the clinical improvement observed in myasthenic patients treated with steroids is due not only to an effect on the immune system but also to a direct effect on muscle. we propose that the identification and development of pharmacologic agents that augment receptors and other proteins that are reduced by human genetic or autoimmune disease will have broad therapeutic applications.
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of head and neck lesions. the case records of 213 fine-needle aspiration biopsies (fnab) of head and neck masses performed on 209 patients over a 3-year period were reviewed to assess the diagnostic accuracy and safety of this technique in comparison with surgical histologic examination. cytologic diagnoses based on fnab were compared with histologic diagnoses in 110 patients who underwent surgery. based on cytology alone, 40.3% of the lesions were reported as malignant, 45.1% as benign, and 14.6% as indeterminant. a specific cytologic diagnosis was made in 85.5% of the cases. cytologic diagnoses concurred with surgical histologic diagnoses 90% of the time. fine-needle aspiration biopsy was found to have a false-positive rate of 0.5% and a false-negative rate of 2.3%. the sensitivity and specificity of fnab in determining a malignant diagnosis were 81.1% and 99%, respectively. positive and negative predictive values were calculated at 98.9% and 82.8%, respectively. diagnostic rate, sensitivity, and negative predictive value increased consistently throughout the study period, indicating that the diagnostic accuracy of fnab improved with experience.
carcinoma of the pancreas: a retrospective review. eighty-five patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were reviewed in order to evaluate the efficacy of our methods of diagnosis and treatment. the most useful diagnostic test was percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography (ptc) with a diagnostic rate of 96%. pancreaticoduodenectomy (whipple procedure) and total pancreatic resection were performed in 13 and 2 patients, respectively. the remaining 50 patients underwent various palliative drainage procedures. twenty patients did not undergo operation for various reasons. the primary tumor was found in the head of the pancreas in 50 patients (59%), the body in 6 patients (7%), and in the tail in 8 patients (9%). postoperative complications, including sepsis, bleeding, intra-abdominal abscesses, and anastomotic leaks, occurred in 37% of the patients. there were one operative and 9 postoperative deaths. the average survival for those patients undergoing surgical intervention was 6 months. there were no 5-year survivors.
reversibility of hepatic fibrosis in experimentally induced cholestasis in rat. the reversibility of hepatic fibrosis was investigated in an experimental model of extrahepatic cholestasis in the rat after common bile duct ligation for 2 weeks, followed by bilioduodenal anastomosis for 3 weeks. bile duct ligation resulted in a transitory marked elevation in the serum concentration of 5'-nucleotidase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin during the first 3 days. then these levels decreased to threefold, twofold, and 100-fold the normal values, respectively, during the following 4 weeks. histologic examination of the liver disclosed extensive bile duct proliferation and the formation of periportal fibrosis, with only slight inflammation and necrosis. the distribution of the major components of the hepatic extracellular matrix was analyzed 2 weeks after bile duct ligation, using the indirect immunoperoxidase method. fibrous septa were found to be strongly stained for collagens i, pro-iii, iii and iv, fibronectin, and laminin. the most intense staining was found in enlarged periportal areas, collagen iv and laminin being particularly abundant around newly formed bile ducts. these changes paralleled high steady-state levels of alpha 1(i) and alpha 1(iv) collagen and b2 chain laminin mrnas. relief of the obstruction for 2 weeks resulted in a shift in the serum concentration of 5'-nucleotidase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin toward normal values. a dramatic resorption of bile duct proliferations and periportal fibrosis were observed. three weeks after bile duct repermeabilization, immunohistochemical study showed that the pattern of distribution of extracellular matrix components was almost normal, except for collagen iv, which remained abundant in the sinusoids when compared with the normal liver. in parallel, the steady-state b2-chain laminin mrna level became lower than in cholestatic livers, whereas alpha 1(i) and alpha 1(iv) mrnas were almost undetectable. these results show that hepatic fibrosis induced by experimental extrahepatic cholestasis in rat disappears in less than 3 weeks after relief of bile duct obstruction, suggesting that an active degradation of matrix protein occurs, except for collagen iv in the sinusoid.
carcinosarcoma of the lung with hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. carcinosarcoma of the lung is a rare malignancy. endobronchial and parenchymal variants are classically described. clinicopathological features are often related to anatomical location, as is the case for most lung neoplasms. this case report details the surgical management of a carcinosarcoma in a patient seen with pulmonary osteoarthropathy.
diagnosis of noninfective cardiac mass lesions by two-dimensional echocardiography. comparison of the transthoracic and transesophageal approaches. this study was conducted in 46 patients with cardiac thrombi, 15 patients with atrial myxomas, and 32 patients with other cardiac or paracardiac tumors. diagnoses were subsequently proven by surgery, autopsy, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or angiography in all patients. all patients underwent precordial and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography to assess the various mass detection rates. atrial myxomas and predominantly left-sided cardiac tumors were identified by both echocardiographic techniques with comparable detection rates. left ventricular apical thrombi were detected more frequently by precordial echocardiography. in contrast, transesophageal echocardiography was superior in visualizing left atrial appendage thrombi, small and flat thrombi in the left atrial cavity, thrombi and tumors in the superior vena cava, and masses attached to the right heart and the descending thoracic aorta. these data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a clinically relevant improvement of the diagnostic potential in patients in whom cardiac masses are suspected or have to be excluded in order to ensure the safety of clinical procedures.
cd34 antigen expression in children with philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. one characteristic of philadelphia chromosome (ph')-positive acute leukemia is the occasional presence of both lymphoid and myeloid features in the same leukemia. this phenomenon supports the theory that this subtype of acute leukemia arises from lymphoid-myeloid stem cell, pluripotent progenitors. very few reports, however, describe the immunophenotype, especially cd34 antigen, of ph'-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). it has been shown that cd34, the human progenitor cell antigen, is found on 1% or less of normal human bone marrow cells, approximately 30% of acute leukemias, and multipotent progenitor cells; cd34 is not found on normal peripheral blood cells. a high frequency of cd34 expression was found in children with ph'-positive all: cd34 was positive for all six patients tested, and one had an acute mixed-lineage leukemia. these findings suggest the involvement of a pluripotent stem cell in ph'-positive all.
endothelial markers in malignant vascular tumours of the liver: superiority of qb-end/10 over von willebrand factor and ulex europaeus agglutinin 1. a new monoclonal antibody, qb-end/10, raised against the cd34 antigen in human endothelial cell membranes and haemopoietic progenitor cells, was studied for its usefulness as a marker of neoplastic vascular cells in 21 angiosarcomas and seven malignant haemangioendotheliomas of the liver. qb-end/10 was both more sensitive and more specific than von willebrand factor (vwf) and ulex europaeus 1 agglutinin (uea-1) in labelling endothelial cells and it did not cross react with epithelia as uea-1 often does. staining was uniformly strong and clear in all histological variants of these two tumours. qb-end/10 should prove particularly useful in the differential diagnosis of malignant vascular tumours of the liver.
endoscopic management of chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach. endoscopic correction of the chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach was attempted in seven cases of primary and three cases of secondary volvulus. endoscopic correction was successful in six cases of primary volvulus and one case of volvulus secondary to duodenal carcinoma. this paper describes the details of the technique of endoscopic correction of gastric volvulus, and documentation of correction of the volvulus by barium meal study with a follow-up of 5-26 months.
syncope and presyncope associated with probable adverse drug reactions. the purpose of this study was to determine whether syncope and presyncope were associated with drug therapy in 70 patients referred to a tertiary care ambulatory clinic. drug use information was obtained, validated, and classified by its potential to cause syncope and presyncope. utilizing a standardized adverse drug reaction algorithm, nine (13%) of the 70 patients were rated as having probable drug-induced syncope and presyncope events. overall, 12 medications were implicated. patients with probable adverse drug reactions were older, and taking more medications, or taking an antihypertensive. seven of the nine patients with probable adverse drug reactions were previously classified as having syncope of unknown origin after their initial clinic evaluation. syncope and presyncope are commonly associated with adverse drug reactions, especially in the elderly and those taking multiple medications.
the impact of quitting smoking on symptoms of chronic bronchitis: results of the scottish heart health study. scotland has high rates of death from diseases of the respiratory system and high rates of smoking, especially among women. data on self reported smoking and prevalence of chronic cough and chronic phlegm among 10,359 men and women aged 40-59 years were obtained from the scottish heart health study. overall, current cigarette smokers had rates of chronic cough and chronic phlegm four to five times those of never smokers after standardisation for age (32.3% v 6.5% for men and 24% v 5.5% for women for chronic cough; 31% v 8.3% for men and 21% v 5.5% for women for chronic phlegm). ex-smokers' symptom rates were a little above those of never smokers and were significant for chronic cough among women and chronic phlegm among men. men had higher symptom rates than women and this was true for smokers, ex-smokers, and never smokers. the higher rates among men could not be explained by higher cotinine concentrations. tests to detect "deceivers" among ex-smokers and never smokers using biochemical validation suggested that 87 (1.5%) respondents were in fact smoking; they were excluded from analyses. there were substantially lower rates of chronic cough and chronic phlegm within a year of stopping smoking, and two to four years after stopping 89-99% of the difference between current smokers and never smokers was accounted for (99% and 93% for men and women with chronic cough, 96% and 89% for men and women with chronic phlegm). even 10 years after stopping, rates of symptoms among ex-smokers remained a little above those of never smokers (except for women with chronic phlegm), though these differences were not statistically significant. former heavy smokers continued to have rates of chronic cough and chronic phlegm that were higher than those of former light and moderate smokers (though not significantly so). these are cross sectional data, but they emphasise the importance for chronic bronchitis symptoms of giving up cigarette smoking, though the amount previously smoked continues to exert a small influence.
hyaline ring granuloma: a distinct oral entity. hyaline ring granuloma (hrg) is a distinct oral entity. in this study, 64 cases from the literature are analyzed and two new cases are reported. the lesions could be classified by location as central hyaline ring granuloma (42%) and peripheral hyaline ring granuloma (53%). radiographically, a radiolucent area irregularly outlined by well-formed trabeculae of bone was found in central hrg, and a poorly defined erosion at the crest of the alveolar ridge was often found in peripheral hrg. occasionally, the lesion occurred in the connective tissue wall of cysts (5%). the etiology of this condition is controversial, but most lesions were in edentulous areas and most patients had a history of tooth extraction or other trauma. the majority of cases (83%) occurred in the mandible, usually posterior to the premolar. the mean age of patients at diagnosis was 43 years, and the male/female ratio was 1.9:1. pain was not a symptom, although local discomfort, such as recurrent swelling and tenderness, was noted in many cases. hyaline rings with giant cell inclusions are the significant features for histopathologic diagnosis. hrg is treated by curettage or surgical excision, care being taken to remove the entire lesion. the removal of a peripheral hrg in an edentulous jaw should be followed by careful smoothing of the bone surface, since the lesion tends to infiltrate and is not well demarcated. recurrence, probably due to incomplete excision, is uncommon.
voltage criteria of left ventricular hypertrophy in sudden and nonsudden coronary artery disease mortality: the italian section of the seven countries study. it is unclear whether sudden or nonsudden death can be predicted independently from other risk factors for coronary artery disease (cad). therefore, this investigation was undertaken to measure 12-lead qrs voltage sum, a recently proposed (am j cardiol 1985;55:485-494) index of left ventricular (lv) hypertrophy, and its ability to predict either subsequent sudden (less than 2 hours) or nonsudden cad death during 20 to 23 years of follow-up in 1,588 middle aged men (40 to 61 years old) from 2 cohorts of the italian section of the seven countries study who were free of demonstrable cad (at entry examination in 1962). the sokolow-lyon and the modified sokolow-lyon indexes, 2 standard electrocardiographic methods to detect lv hypertrophy were also measured and compared. during follow-up, 67 patients died suddenly and 87 died a nonsudden cad death. in the cox proportional-hazards model, age, mean blood pressure, heart rate, body mass index, cholesterol, physical activity, smoking habit, st-t alterations (minnesota codes 4.1 to 4.3 together with 5.1 to 5.3) and the 3 electrocardiographic indexes, all measured at the time of enrollment into the study, were included. the 12-lead qrs voltage sum retained significant and independent relation to sudden death (t = 2.00); sokolow-lyon index entered the cox solution for nonsudden cad death but the association was inverse (t = -2.10). st-t alterations were significantly associated only with nonsudden cad death (t = 2.19). thus, in addition to several known risk factors, measurement of 12-lead qrs voltage sum in middle-aged men without clinical evidence of heart disease may help identify subjects at an increased risk of sudden death; nonsudden cad death is predicted by sokolow-lyon index and by st-t alterations. the usefulness of these indexes needs to be tested in different populations.
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm with hemoptysis. a 53-year-old man who had previously undergone resection of a left ventricular aneurysm was admitted because of hemoptysis. preoperative evaluation with computed tomographic scan and cardiac catheterization demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior ventricular wall measuring 16 cm in diameter with protrusion into the left hemithorax. the neck of the pseudoaneurysm was a defect in the ventricular wall extending from the base of the mitral valve annulus to the insertion of the posterior papillary muscle. operative repair was performed using an albumin-coated, low-porosity dacron patch.
cerebral blood flow in progressive aphasia without dementia. case report, using 133xenon inhalation, technetium 99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime and single photon emission computerized tomography. we report a case of progressive aphasia without clinical signs of intellectual or behavioral impairment, satisfying mesulam's clinical criteria of primary progressive aphasia, as 4 yrs of extensive psychometric testing and radiological imaging, comprising ct and mri, failed to detect evidence of relevant involvement outside the left perisylvian regions. cranial ct was normal but mri showed multiple bilateral lesions in the deep white matter. cerebral blood flow (cbf) studies by single photon emission computerized tomography, however, showed an initial frontotemporal focus of hypoperfusion that progressively extended to include most of the ipsilateral hemisphere and the contralateral frontal lobe. this suggests that cbf imaging may yet be the most sensitive technique in revealing subclinical injury in the degenerative brain diseases of focal onset.
anionic complex-carbohydrate units of human thyroglobulin. human thyroglobulin (htg) contains sulfate in chondroitin 6-sulfate chains and in complex carbohydrates. in this study the sulfate-containing complex carbohydrates were characterized by the number of sulfate and sialic acid residues that they contain. samples of normal and nodular thyroid tissue were incubated for 16 h in [35s]sulfate-containing medium, and htg was purified from the tissues and the media. complex carbohydrates were enzymatically removed from htg. subsequent analysis on an hplc anion exchange column at ph 2.2 separated the carbohydrate units according to their number of negative charges. sulfate-containing peaks were monitored by radioactivity, and sialic acid-containing peaks were identified by their shift to lower charge after treatment with neuraminidase. peaks corresponding to sialic acid-free carbohydrate units with one to four sulfates were identified. also, carbohydrate units with two and three negative charges containing both sulfate and sialic acid were present. in the nodular tissue of one patient there were more sulfated units with higher charge, especially units containing sialic acid. in this patient the proportion of sulfated polyvalent units with sialic acid was 22.4% for normal and 64.6% for nodular tissue. no difference in the composition of the charged units between the tissues and their corresponding media was seen, making it unlikely that the sulfate-containing carbohydrates play a role in htg release. it is concluded that htg contains complex carbohydrate units with up to four sulfate groups and units with both sulfate and sialic acid. in some patients, the sulfate-containing anionic carbohydrate units of htg from normal and nodular thyroid tissue are different.
bilateral phrenic nerve palsy associated with open-heart surgery. the incidence of phrenic nerve palsy after open-heart surgery has been estimated at 10%, but it is usually unilateral and does not cause symptoms. bilateral phrenic nerve injury after coronary artery bypass surgery is a rare complication. this case report describes a patient who developed bilateral phrenic nerve palsies and required prolonged ventilatory support. denervation of both hemidiaphragms was documented by needle electromyography four weeks after bypass surgery. the patient required total ventilatory support for three months and partial ventilatory support for an additional three months. this case demonstrates the usefulness of electromyographic screening for documentation and prognostication after phrenic nerve injury. the cause of the lesion was unclear, but hypothermia and stretch were leading hypotheses. this patient developed the phrenic nerve palsies despite using a cardiac insulation pad.
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension: report of two cases. two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented. emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement, which, supplemented by radiation therapy, allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms. three possible explanations for this complication are offered: 1) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site, causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus, 2) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema, and 3) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus. subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed.
vertebrobasilar occlusion following minor trauma in an 8-year-old boy. an 8-year-old boy developed seizures and coma 2 days after a trivial bicycle accident. computed tomography failed to show pathology. magnetic resonance imaging of the head showed infarction of the pons and right cerebellum. angiography showed occlusion of the right vertebral and basilar arteries. minor traumatic injuries to the cervical spine may result in vertebrobasilar occlusion. the neurologic manifestations of this disorder and emergency department diagnosis and management are discussed.
a coproporphyria-like syndrome induced by glipizide. a 49-year-old man with a 1-month history of episodic, severe abdominal pain sought medical attention. the patient's history was remarkable for type ii diabetes, for which glipizide therapy had been initiated 2 months earlier. no other medications were being taken at the time the paroxysms of pain began. during the episodes of pain, both examination of the abdomen and abdominal roentgenograms revealed normal findings. initial assessment, including ultrasonography and computed tomographic scanning of the abdomen, upper gastrointestinal and colon roentgenograms, and esophagogastroduodenoscopy, revealed no cause of the pain. empiric trials of famotidine, sucralfate, and antacids failed to relieve the pain. both urine and fecal specimens collected after an attack demonstrated substantially increased coproporphyrins. the glipizide regimen was discontinued; 2 months later, the stool coproporphyrins had decreased to normal levels. at follow-up more than 1 year later, the patient had had no recurrence of abdominal pain. although other orally administered hypoglycemic agents and other sulfa compounds have been reported to precipitate acute attacks of porphyria, to our knowledge this is the first such case associated with glipizide. we suggest that glipizide be added to the list of medications to be avoided in patients with porphyria.
human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression: a risk factor for human papillomavirus infection. in a group of 92 women with genital condylomata, 15 (16.3%) human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were found, whereas no case was detected in a control group of 100 women. the relative risk was greater than 19.28. human immunodeficiency-positive status was associated with other parameters: lower age and parity, major frequency of induced abortions, and sexually transmitted diseases. thus although human immunodeficiency-positive status seems to be a true risk factor in relation to the altered immunologic state, an indirect association cannot be discarded. such patients should be screened closely for human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer. among human immunodeficiency-positive women, a more resistant behavior of human papillomavirus-associated lesions was detected (recurrence-persistence of 41.7% versus 12%), a fact that might also be in relation to the immunodepressed status.
delayed pharyngoesophageal perforation: a complication of anterior spine surgery. stabilization of the cervical spine is often accomplished via an anterior cervical approach. bone grafts and/or plates and screws are used to achieve stabilization. injuries to the pharynx and esophagus are known complications in anterior exposure of the cervical spine. these injuries are manifest in the early postoperative period. reports of late perforations are very rare. we present four cases of delayed injury to the pharynx and esophagus that resulted in abscess or fistula. we postulate that graft displacement with resulting erosion was responsible for these serious complications. postoperative odynophagia in patients who undergo anterior cervical fusion warrants evaluation of the bone graft location. early surgical intervention and repair may decrease prolonged morbidity in these patients.
effects of inosine on glycolysis and contracture during myocardial ischemia. the effects of inosine (ino) on substrate metabolism and rigor formation in ischemic myocardium were examined in isolated rabbit hearts. metabolite content was assessed in tissue extracts by chemical analysis and in the whole heart by 13c and 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. in ischemic hearts metabolizing either [3-13c]pyruvate or [1-13c]glucose, 1 mm ino increased both total and 13c-labeled alanine content; lactate content was unaffected. at 3 minutes of ischemia, tissue alanine was 1.81 +/- 0.11 microm/g wet wt (mean +/- sem) in hearts perfused with pyruvate+ino versus 1.23 +/- 0.15 microm/g wet wt in hearts perfused with pyruvate alone (p less than 0.05). ino reduced tissue glycogen during ischemia in pyruvate-perfused hearts. tissue alanine content in ischemic hearts that were supplied glucose+ino (1.29 +/- 0.13 microm/g wet wt) was greater than in ischemic hearts supplied glucose alone (0.65 +/- 0.14 microm/g wet wt). alanine was found to originate from pyruvate and was a glycolytic end product in glucose-perfused hearts. ino raised the [3-13c]alanine/[3-13c]lactate ratio in ischemic, intact hearts (glucose = 0.24 +/- 0.07 versus glucose+ino = 0.60 +/- 0.09; pyruvate = 0.49 +/- 0.08 versus pyruvate+ino = 0.89 +/- 0.08). at 7 minutes of ischemia, atp content fell to 70 +/- 3% with glucose+ino versus 58 +/- 5% with glucose alone. rigor (stone heart) was delayed from 14.7 +/- 1.3 to 23.2 +/- 1.6 minutes with ino. ino did not change atp content in ischemic hearts that were supplied pyruvate but delayed rigor (pyruvate = 9.9 +/- 1.2 minutes; pyruvate+ino = 15.6 +/- 1.0 minutes), possibly at the expense of glycogen. supplemental glucose improved the effectiveness of ino with pyruvate to preserve atp (pyruvate+glucose = 42 +/- 6%; pyruvate+glucose+ino = 72 +/- 6%) and further delayed rigor (pyruvate+glucose = 13.3 +/- 1.5 minutes; pyruvate+glucose+ino = 20.3 +/- 1.8 minutes). glucose metabolism supported improved energetic and contractile states in ischemic hearts treated with ino. thus, cardioprotection of the ischemic heart by ino was associated with preservation of functional integrity and improved energy production due to increased glycolytic activity. activation of glycolysis in the presence of ino was accommodated by augmented alanine production without the additional accumulation of lactate.
cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium. clinical, pathologic, and immunohistopathologic findings. a 51-year-old white man was found to have a deeply pigmented mass in the ciliary body and peripheral choroid of his right eye with an associated vitreous hemorrhage. although the tumor appeared to be a ciliochoroidal melanoma, a melanocytoma and adenoma of the pigment epithelium also were considered in the differential diagnosis. the tumor was removed by a large partial lamellar sclerocyclochoroidectomy. results of histopathologic evaluation showed a cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium. to the authors' knowledge, this was the first immunohistopathologic study of this tumor. results of the study showed marked immunoreactivity for low molecular weight cytokeratins, vimentin, and s-100 protein. these immunohistochemical studies are consistent with the origin of this tumor from pigment epithelial cells.
treatment of severe colitis in behcet's syndrome with thalidomide (cg-217). a 35-year-old male patient, known in our department since 1979 on account of a severe and complete behcet's syndrome, was treated with thalidomide (cg-217) as a final pharmacological measure to avoid colectomy during a severe attack of behcet colitis. prior to the administration of thalidomide, the patient had been treated for 7 weeks with full parenteral nutrition and high doses of steroids intravenously without a satisfactory effect on the colitis. treatment with sulphasalazin was unsuccessful because of a decreasing number of platelets on this drug. after a few days on thalidomide, 300 mg given once daily at bedtime, the patient's stools were normalized and without reaction for blood, his oral ulcers and pleural effusion disappeared, and his steroid doses could be reduced. gradually he was put on oral nutrition again, and his rectal mucosa became normalized. the dose of thalidomide was reduced to 200 mg, and then to 100 mg daily when the patient was discharged from hospital, less than 3 weeks after institution of the drug treatment. after 5 months as an out-patient his condition is still satisfactory and without symptoms of his former disease. thalidomide has previously been reported to be of value in treatment of behcet's syndrome, but to my knowledge never with such a dramatic effect on a severe colitis as reported in this case.
intussusception encephalopathy: an underrecognized cause of coma in children. intestinal intussusception is a common cause of bowel obstruction in infancy and early childhood. typically the presenting signs and symptoms are referable to the abdomen. on occasion the most prominent presenting feature is depressed level of consciousness. we describe 3 patients who presented with coma associated with intussusception.
plasma homocyst(e)ine levels in men with premature coronary artery disease. plasma homocyst(e)ine (that is, the sum of free and bound homocysteine and its oxidized forms, homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide) levels were determined in 170 men (mean age +/- sd 50 +/- 7 years) with premature coronary artery disease diagnosed at coronary angiography and in 255 control subjects clinically free of coronary artery disease (mean age 49 +/- 6 years). patients with coronary artery disease had a higher homocyst(e)ine level than control subjects (13.66 +/- 6.44 versus 10.93 +/- 4.92 nmol/ml, p less than 0.001). high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol levels were lower (32 +/- 10 versus 46 +/- 13 mg/dl, p less than 0.001) and triglycerides levels were higher (193 +/- 103 versus 136 +/- 106 mg/dl, p less than 0.001) in the coronary disease group. plasma total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol levels were not significantly different between patients with coronary disease and control subjects. the presence of hypertension, smoking or diabetes mellitus did not significantly alter homocyst(e)ine levels in the patient or the control group. patients who were not taking a beta-adrenergic blocking drug (n = 70) had a nonsignificantly higher homocyst(e)ine level than did patients taking this class of drugs (n = 100) (14.67 +/- 8.92 versus 12.95 +/- 3.77 nmol/ml, p = 0.087). by design, none of the control subjects were taking a beta-blocker. no significant correlations were observed between homocyst(e)ine and age, serum cholesterol, ldl cholesterol, hdl cholesterol or triglyceride levels. it is concluded that an elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine level is an independent risk factor for the development of premature coronary atherosclerosis in men.
atrial fibrillation with cardiac tamponade as the initial manifestation of malignant pericarditis this article describes the case of a 72-year-old woman with cardiac tamponade and atrial fibrillation as the initial manifestation of a lymphoid malignancy. the pathogenesis of cardiac tamponade, various diagnostic modalities, and therapy of this condition are reviewed.
optic nerve gliomas and meningiomas. optic nerve gliomas are benign astrocytic neoplasms that primarily affect children. the ultimate prognosis for vision is poor. for lesions confined to the optic nerves, long-term survival is excellent, but with involvement of the chiasm and especially of the hypothalamus or third ventricle, prognosis falls significantly. for this group, no form of therapy has proven to be of any benefit. optic sheath meningiomas are neoplasms arising from arachnoid cap cells. they primarily affect middle-aged adults. like gliomas, the prognosis for vision is poor, but unlike gliomas, prognosis for life is excellent.
munchausen syndrome by proxy documented by discrepant blood typing. the authors describe a case of munchausen syndrome by proxy, a form of child abuse, documented by use of routine blood bank serologic procedures. while immunohematologic testing has been used in the legal arena to resolve issues of disputed paternity and to investigate instances of criminal acts, the authors believe this to be the first documented application to this clinical disorder.
limitations of electroencephalographic monitoring in the detection of cerebral ischemia accompanying carotid endarterectomy. an analysis was undertaken of 458 consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed over 6 years with the patient under general anesthesia and with electroencephalographic monitoring. seventy patients (15%) had electroencephalographic changes suggestive of ischemia with carotid clamping and had shunts placed. ischemic encephalographic changes occurred in 26% of patients with an occluded contralateral carotid artery, 21% of patients with a prior stroke history, and 12% of patients with no stroke history and a patent contralateral carotid artery. nineteen strokes (4.1%), nine transient deficits (2.0%), and one death (0.2%) occurred in the 458 endarterectomies in this experience. ten of the 19 strokes and five of nine transient deficits were immediately apparent when patients awoke from anesthesia. five of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all five patients with immediate transient deficits had no ischemic electroencephalographic changes during the procedure. two other patients with immediate strokes initially had ischemic electroencephalographic changes after carotid clamping that reversed with increased blood pressure or shunting. therefore 7 of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all 5 patients with immediate transient deficits had electroencephalographs unchanged from baseline at completion of the procedure, and thus deficits not manifest by operative electroencephalographic changes developed. our data do not support the tenet that electroencephalographic monitoring will always predict neurologic deficits accompanying carotid endarterectomy.
obstructing carcinoma of the cecum. carcinoma of the cecum, the third most common location for malignancy of the large bowel, was examined with attention centered upon cecal cancers producing obstruction. reviewing 136 patients revealed 11 obstructing lesions (8.1%) presenting as distal small bowel obstructions. the mean age of the patients was 74 years. all but one patient had resection for cure which consisted of a right hemicolectomy with ileotransverse colostomy. there was no operative mortality or significant morbidity. bowel obstruction due to cecal carcinoma is an infrequent occurrence arising in elderly patients and carries a poor survival rate due to advanced disease at the time of diagnosis and treatment.
anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery. surgical alternatives depending of the age of the patient. four cases of anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery, three of which were operated upon in our centre, are presented. an aortocoronary bypass with reversed autologous saphenous vein was carried out in both of the children; and in the adult, the anomalous ostium was closed from the interior of the pulmonary artery. after 84, 72, and 4 months of evolution, respectively, they were found to be asymptomatic, the mitral insufficiency had disappeared and the venous graft remained patent. in this paper, the clinical form of presentation, diagnostic possibilities and surgical treatment are analysed.
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery. a study was made with intra-operative flash--visual evoked potentials (vep) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve. the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings. transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery, but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision. the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve.
intraoperative i-125 seed implantation for extensive recurrent head and neck carcinomas. from 1978 to 1988, 41 patients with extensive recurrent carcinomas of the head and neck were treated with surgical resection plus intraoperative iodine-125 seed implantation. surgery was performed to resect the tumors and to expose the tumor beds for implantation. i-125 seeds were implanted intraoperatively, with a spacing of 0.75-1 cm between adjacent seeds, either into the soft tissue in the tumor bed or onto small patches of gelatin sponges to cover the bone, nerve, or blood vessel involved with disease. reconstructive flaps were used in 18 patients. the average i-125 dose delivered by the implanted seeds was 8,263 cgy. the determinate 5-year actuarial survival rate for the entire group was 40%. the 5-year local disease control rate was 44%. major complications were transient wound infection (32%), flap necrosis (24%), fistula formation (10%), and carotid blowout (5%). these results indicate that surgical resection plus i-125 seed implantation provides a potentially curative treatment for patients with extensive recurrent head and neck carcinomas that would be considered traditionally unresectable and that would be treated only with palliative therapy.
meningitis in the neurosurgical patient. in the patient with a basilar skull fracture and csf leak, the risk of meningitis is greatly increased. the diagnosis of both leak and infection can be obscured by the patient's other injuries, and requires aggressive investigation of symptoms that suggest infection. although the diagnosis is made with csf cultures, when clinically suspected, treatment should begin after appropriate cultures have been obtained. treatment should be directed against the most likely organisms, streptococcus pneumoniae, haemophilus influenzae, and the other organisms common to the upper respiratory tract. there are no good indications for prophylactic antibiotic usage in patients with known csf leaks. the patient with a shunt or other cns prosthetic device may have various manifestations of infection, depending on the type of device and its termination. frank meningitis or ventriculitis is not always present. diagnosis requires direct culturing of the shunt milieu, with the most frequent isolates being staphylococcal species and gram-negative enteric bacilli. the most effective therapy, for both eradication of the infection and minimization of the duration and morbidity of therapy, involves removal of the infected shunt, external drainage during parenteral antibiotic therapy, and complete replacement of hardware at the time of internalization. the postsurgical patient will not develop meningitis very frequently, but like the posttrauma patient, concurrent factors can make the diagnosis difficult. differentiating infectious from chemical meningitis must often be initially based on csf cell counts and chemistries alone. treatment to cover the most likely organism, staphylococcal species and respiratory flora, should be started before the culture results are finalized.
temporoparietal cortex in aphasia. evidence from positron emission tomography. forty-four aphasic patients were examined with (f18)-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in a resting state to determine whether consistent glucose metabolic abnormalities were present. ninety-seven percent of subjects showed metabolic abnormalities in the angular gyrus, 89% in the supramarginal gyrus, and 87% in the lateral and transverse superior temporal gyrus. pearson product moment correlations were calculated between regional metabolic measures and performance on the western aphasia battery. no significant correlations were found between the western aphasia battery scores and right hemisphere metabolic measures. most left hemisphere regions correlated with more than one score from the western aphasia battery. temporal but not frontal regions had significant correlations to the comprehension score. the left temporoparietal region was consistently affected in these subjects, suggesting that common features in the aphasias were caused by left temporoparietal dysfunction, while behavioral differences resulted from (1) the extent of temporoparietal changes, and (2) dysfunction elsewhere in the brain, particularly the left frontal and subcortical areas.
plastic bullet arterial embolization following gunshot injury to the heart. case report and review of the literature. a plastic bullet penetrating the heart through the right ventricle embolized to the right profunda. suture of the heart and extraction of the bullet resulted in uneventful recovery. the literature revealed 21 instances of embolization following proven heart penetration, in two cases through the right ventricle.
increased platelet membrane sodium-proton exchange rate in spontaneously hypertensive rats. it has been proposed that increased na-h exchange activity is involved in the pathophysiology of genetic hypertension. we studied platelets of spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr), normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky), and domestic wistar rats (dwr), since platelets have similarities to smooth muscle cells and have been shown to have potentially related ion metabolism abnormalities, such as increased intracellular calcium activity. we determined the exchange rate by the intracellular acidification-dependent, extracellular sodium-dependent volume increase. the rate of increase during the first 3 min is linear and is shown to be higher in shr (0.475 x min-1) than in wky (0.410 x min-1) or dwr (0.389 x min-1). we conclude that the na-h activity is increased in platelets of shr. similar findings in lymphocytes and neutrophils of shr, and analogous findings in platelets of humans with essential hypertension, suggest that this abnormality is expressed by several cell types, some of which may be involved in the pathophysiology of genetic hypertension in both rats and humans.
diagnosis of corticotropin-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors causing cushing's syndrome cushing's syndrome due to ectopic production of adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotropin) has been recognized for many years. traditionally, clinicians have thought that most cases were due to lung carcinomas and that the clinical manifestations differed from those for pituitary-dependent cushing's syndrome. we report two cases of corticotropin-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors that were clinically and biochemically indistinguishable from pituitary-dependent cushing's syndrome. review of the literature revealed that bronchial carcinoid tumors are the most common cause of cushing's syndrome due to ectopic secretion of corticotropin. on biochemical and anatomic studies, they are frequently indistinguishable from pituitary-dependent cushing's syndrome and thus may be difficult to diagnose. inferior petrosal sinus sampling for corticotropin and computerized imaging of the chest may be the best aids in making the diagnosis.
healing of a large nonossifying fibroma after grafting with bone matrix and marrow. a case report. healing of a large tibial nonossifying fibroma in a 12-year-old girl occurred following excision, curettage, and filling of the bony defect with human demineralized bone matrix powder mixed with a small quantity of the patient's bone marrow. the use of this graft composite was successful in the treatment of the lesion and reduced the potential risk and morbidity associated with pediatric orthopedic surgical procedures with autogeneic iliac crest and other bone grafts.
long-term medical consequences of incest, rape, and molestation. one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group. the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression, morbid obesity, marital instability, high utilization of medical care, and certain psychosomatic symptoms, particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches. it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems. questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner's review of systems in these difficult cases, if not routinely.
new quantitative method for evaluating tricuspid regurgitation. a new quantitative method for evaluating regurgitation (tr) is proposed in order to select the most suitable treatment for functional tr associated with acquired valvular heart disease. the regurgitant volume per beat (vtr) is calculated using two-dimensional color doppler and continuous-wave doppler echocardiographies. in a study of 48 patients, preoperative vtr showed a significant correlation with tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole, right atrial mean pressure and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure. patients were classified into 3 groups according to preoperative vtr: group i, vtr less than 10 cc (no. 18); group ii, vtr = 10-20 cc (no. 18); group iii, vtr greater than or equal to 20 cc (no. 12). this classification correlated well with the intraoperative findings of tr. in all group i patients, vtr decreased without any tricuspid valve repair. in group ii, 17 of 18 patients underwent tricuspid annuloplasty, and showed a decrease in vtr to below 10 cc after surgery. in group iii, 10 underwent tricuspid annuloplasty and 2 tricuspid valve replacement. three of the 10 with tricuspid annuloplasty showed a significant degree of postoperative vtr (10-20 cc). these 3 patients as well as the 2 with tricuspid valve replacement showed a preoperative peak-to-peak pressure difference across the tricuspid valve during the ejection phase (rvsp-tav) of less than or equal to 20 mmhg and tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole of greater than or equal to 50 mm. in conclusion, no tricuspid valve repair was required in group i (tr i). for group ii (tr ii) patients, tricuspid annuloplasty was necessary and adequate for tr correction. for group ii (tr iii) patients, a more substantial procedure like tricuspid valve replacement should be performed, especially when the preoperative rvsp-rav is less than or equal to 20 mmhg and tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole is greater than or equal to 50 mm.
unilateral asterixis. we describe three patients with unilateral asterixis. one diabetic patient with a moderately-sized haematoma in the left putamen initially developed bilateral and symmetrical asterixis, which became confined to the right side as his diabetes mellitus was controlled. two patients showed unilateral asterixis due to haematomas in the contralateral basal ganglia and thalamus, respectively. the present findings indicate that not only lesions of the thalamus but also those of the basal ganglia can cause unilateral asterixis, and bilateral and symmetrical asterixis does not necessarily exclude the presence of a focal mass lesion in the cerebrum.
antisecretory and antilesional effect of a new histamine h2-receptor antagonist, it-066, in rats. the effects of a new histamine h2-receptor antagonist, it-066 (3-amino-4-[4-[4-(1-piperidinomethyl)-2-pyridyloxy]-cis-2-++ +butenylamino]- 3-cyclobutene-1,2-dione hydrochloride), were investigated on the secretagogue-induced acid secretion in vivo and in vitro, and on experimental gastric and duodenal lesion in rats. it-066 (10-60 micrograms/kg) given i.v. inhibited histamine-stimulated acid secretion dose-dependently in gastric lumen-perfused rats, and the inhibitory effect was observed for about 12 hr. famotidine (fmd) (10-60 micrograms/kg i.v.) also had an antisecretory effect, but the acid secretion recovered to the control level 4 hr after the administration. cold stress plus indomethacin-induced lesion was significantly inhibited by it-066 and fmd given i.v. 30 min before the cold stress plus indomethacin treatment. it-066 given 7 hr before the cold stress plus indomethacin treatment also inhibited lesion formation significantly, but such antilesional effect was not observed with fmd. in the rat isolated gastric mucosal sheet, it-066 inhibited histamine-stimulated acid secretion dose-dependently and noncompetitively; its action was produced via a unique mechanism. the inhibitory effect of it-066 remained after washing of the mucosa, and became more potent time-dependently. the inhibitory effects of fmd and cimetidine were not observed after washing the mucosa. these data suggest that it-066 has a potent and long lasting antisecretory effect in vivo and in vitro, and that these properties are responsible for the long lasting antilesional action.
congestive heart failure: a current overview. congestive heart failure (chf), a disease seen primarily in the older patient, can be due to either systolic or diastolic dysfunction. management is quite different if the heart failure is due to a filling abnormality as compared to poor ventricular systole. the disorder also poses many diagnostic pitfalls in the elderly. current understanding of chf and its influence on diagnosis and management is the focus of this review.
intravenous diclofenac sodium. does its administration before operation suppress postoperative pain? intravenous diclofenac sodium was evaluated in a double-blind randomised trial relative to intramuscular diclofenac, intravenous fentanyl, and intramuscular placebo in 160 patients undergoing extraction of impacted lower third molar teeth. the test drug was administered before operation in an attempt to alleviate postoperative pain. a 10-cm visual analogue scale was used to assess pain at 30 minutes and one day after surgery, if the patients stayed overnight. patients who received intravenous diclofenac had significantly less pain than the other groups 30 minutes after operation. they also had significantly less pain one day after surgery than the placebo or opioid groups, but not less than the intramuscular diclofenac group. capillary bleeding time, in comparison with placebo, was significantly prolonged after the use of intramuscular diclofenac, and a similar but nonsignificant trend was observed in the intravenous diclofenac group. no problems were encountered with excessive bleeding in any group.
impaired pressor reactivity in cirrhosis: evidence for a peripheral vascular defect. the blood pressure responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine and angiotensin ii, sympathetic and nonsympathetic vasoconstricting agents, respectively, were measured in 20 patients with cirrhosis (10 child-pugh grade a and 10 child-pugh grades b or c) and in 20 healthy subjects. the log pd20 (dose of agonist required to raise blood pressure by 20 mm hg) for norepinephrine was 4.78 +/- 0.36 (mean +/- s.d.) in patients with severe cirrhosis and 4.36 +/- 0.37 in controls, p less than 0.01. log pd20 for angiotensin ii was 3.16 +/- 1.06 in patients with severe cirrhosis and 1.97 +/- 0.74 in controls, p less than 0.01. cardiovascular responses to selective sympathetic agonists were measured in 10 other cirrhotic patients (all child-pugh grades b or c) and in 10 healthy controls. log pd20s for phenylephrine, an alpha-1 adrenoceptor agonist, and for alphamethylnorepinephrine; an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, were increased in cirrhosis (phenylephrine = 5.35 +/- 0.49 vs. 4.95 +/- 0.35, p less than 0.05; alphamethylnorepinephrine = 4.05 +/- 0.26 vs. 3.44 +/- 0.55, p less than 0.001). in contrast, log cd20 (dose of agonist required to raise the heart rate by 20 beats/min) for isoproterenol, a beta-adrenoceptor agonist, was similar in cirrhotic patients and controls (2.81 +/- 0.38 vs. 2.94 +/- 0.45, p = 0.49). these studies demonstrate that pressor reactivity to both sympathetic and nonsympathetic agonists is impaired in severe cirrhosis, that the impaired sympathetic responses are not caused by generalized sympathetic desensitization and that the site common to the four agonists with impaired responses is the peripheral vascular smooth muscle.
stiffman syndrome: a rare paraneoplastic disorder? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome, associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus, is reported. pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders. this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic.
theophylline minimally alters contractile properties of canine diaphragm in vitro. we examined the effects of theophylline on contractile properties and high-frequency fatigue of canine diaphragm in vitro. eighteen diaphragm muscle bundles were obtained from 10 anesthetized dogs and equilibrated in oxygenated krebs solution to 100, 200, or 300 mg/l theophylline. these bundles were compared with 18 matched control bundles from the contralateral hemidiaphragm. no statistically significant differences in twitch tension, tetanic tension, twitch-to-tetanus ratio, time to peak tension, or half-relaxation time were observed. concentrations of 300 mg/l theophylline, however, significantly (p less than 0.05) increased force production at 10 hz by 32%. a similar tendency was present at lower concentrations and exhibited a clear dose-response behavior. high-frequency fatigue was similar in control and theophylline-treated bundles. we conclude that supratherapeutic in vitro concentrations of theophylline do not increase maximal tetanic tension and do not protect against muscle fatigue but potentiate relative force production at low stimulation frequencies. this relatively small effect cannot be explained by poor diffusion of the drug in the muscle bundle, because theophylline concentrations in the muscle bath and in the muscle bundle were virtually identical. moreover, it remains unclear whether this potentially beneficial effect can be achieved at in vivo attainable serum concentrations.
characteristics of participants at baseline in the treatment of mild hypertension study (tomhs). the treatment of mild hypertension study (tomhs) is a randomized, double-blind clinical trial currently being conducted to compare the effects of nonpharmacologic therapy alone with those of 1 of 5 active drug regimens combined with nonpharmacologic therapy, for long-term management of patients with mild hypertension. six classes of drugs were studied: (1) acebutolol (beta blocker), (2) amlodipine (calcium antagonist), (3) chlorthalidone (diuretic), (4) doxazosin (alpha 1 antagonist), (5) enalapril (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) and (6) placebo. all participants received nutritional-hygienic advice to reduce weight and sodium and alcohol intakes and to increase physical activity. end points include blood pressure change, side effects and quality-of-life indices; incidence of electrocardiographic and echocardiographic abnormalities; and incidence of cardiovascular clinical events, including death, among participants receiving drugs as first-step treatment as well as nonpharmacologic treatment compared with incidence among those participants randomized to nonpharmacologic treatment only as the initial step.
recurrent rhabdomyolysis in association with cocaine use. as the popularity of cocaine increases in our society, so does the frequency and variety of medical complications associated with its use. a growing number of cases have implicated cocaine use in the development of rhabdomyolysis and its complication, acute renal failure. we have reported the first case of recurrent rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure directly associated with cocaine use. although adulterants might cause muscle damage, we believe cocaine should be added to the list of drugs that are capable of producing rhabdomyolysis.
acute limb ischaemia: the place of intravenous streptokinase. intravenous streptokinase infusions (100,000 units/h) have been used to treat 48 patients, with 50 episodes of acute limb ischaemia who were unlikely to benefit from a surgical approach. these included 17 acute thromboses, 14 late or distal emboli and 19 bypass graft occlusions. overall, 17 (34 per cent) instances had complete lysis with reappearance of distal pulses and a further 28 per cent had clinical improvement without change in pulse status. final outcome after 30 days was limb salvage in 60 per cent, amputation in 24 per cent and death in 16 per cent, but this was achieved after eight patients without lysis had vascular reconstructive surgery. serious complications were infrequent, but included a fatal stroke, a haematemesis and two episodes of distal embolization. the outcome was not related to the duration of ischaemia or the site of occlusion. lysis was more frequent with emboli (50 per cent) and graft occlusions (47 per cent) than arterial thromboses (6 per cent). limb salvage was more likely in patients with no neurological deficit in the limb (70 per cent) than if a deficit was present (37 per cent). in conclusion, intravenous streptokinase produced a moderate benefit with low morbidity and has a role in acute limb ischaemia if surgery is inappropriate and intra-arterial lysis unavailable. in particular, selected patients with emboli or graft occlusions without a neurological deficit may be most suitable.
health care screening for people with mental handicap living in the community objective--to determine what contact people with mental handicap had had with their general practitioner in the previous year; what prescribed drugs they were taking and whether these had been reviewed; when hearing and vision had last been screened; and what medical problems were found on examination. design--case series. setting-day centre for adults with mental handicap. subjects--a balanced sample of 75 of the 150 people attending the day centre. 10 were excluded because consent was not given. results--the subjects did not consult their general practitioners more frequently than the general population but were more likely to be taking prescribed drugs, and 57% of these prescriptions had not been reviewed by a doctor. thirty three people failed vision screening, including 13 who wore glasses. twenty seven of the 62 who were testable had a hearing impairment. conclusions--as only eight out of 65 people examined in the study did not have an appreciable problem brought to light, screening seems to be worth while. whether such screening needs to be done by a medically qualified person needs further research.
parathyroid hormone and cirrhosis of the liver. fifty patients with liver cirrhosis (36 alcoholic, 1 drug-induced, 7 posthepatitic, and 6 cryptogenic) and normal renal function were investigated to determine whether pth levels in serum, measured using the common midregion human pth-(44-68) ria, are elevated in such patients and whether this is related to impaired liver function rather than to the effect of secondary hyperparathyroidism. their data were compared with those from 25 control subjects. the median pth level of 462 +/- 18 ng/l (+/- sem) was significantly increased (p less than 0.01) in cirrhotics compared with that of 236 +/- 13 ng/l in the control group. significant correlations were found between pth levels and parameters of liver function such as prothrombin time (r = -0.40; p less than 0.01), albumin as a percentage of total protein (r = -0.48; p less than 0.01), bilirubin (r = 0.35; p less than 0.05), albumin (r = -0.34; p less than 0.05), and cholesterol (r = -0.32; p less than 0.05), but not for antipyrine clearance, suggesting increasing pth with decreasing liver function. the median calcium level (2.26 +/- 0.03 mmol/l), corrected for changes in albumin, was near the lower limit of the normal range (2.25-2.60), but corrected calcium and pth were positively correlated (r = 0.33; p less than 0.05), indicating that the elevation is not reactive to calcium depletion. a negative correlation existed between pth and 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol (r = -0.49; p less than 0.05), the main circulating metabolite of vitamin d. normal values in an immunoradiometric assay that detects the whole sequence of human pth-(1-84) suggest that fragments rather than the intact hormone are responsible for pth elevations in cirrhosis. the positive correlation between midregion pth and corrected calcium is probably an artifact of the correction formula. in conclusion, midregion pth fragments are increased in patients with liver cirrhosis. the reason for this elevation may well be the impaired liver function rather than secondary hyperparathyroidism.
what getting sick means. the concepts of health, disease and death have intrigued man since the beginning of time and are continually evolving. in the nonwestern societies the models which have been proposed for the etiology of disease have a dichotomous view of disease causation which is derived from either natural or supernatural forces. in the western societies these concepts are well defined. the numerous advances in the fields of genetics and molecular biology have added a new dimension to the understanding of the various factors involved in the pathogenesis of disease processes. these advances have allowed a greater understanding of numerous disease processes including the inborn errors of metabolism, endocrine disorders and human neoplasia. several recent advances in the areas of molecular biology and physiology allowing this increased understanding of human disease are presented.
use of emla cream as an analgesic in the management of painful otitis externa. a new application of emla cream is described. relief of pain in otitis externa is difficult and systemic analgesics for this localized condition are often ineffective. meticulous cleaning of the external auditory meatus is an essential step in the treatment. emla cream is an effective analgesic which can be used to relieve pain and anaesthetize the external auditory meatus to allow cleaning in patients with intact tympanic membranes.
idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema. we describe 10 patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension who did not have papilledema. idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema, although rarely reported, may well be a clinically important headache syndrome. historical and demographic features of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema are similar to those of patients with papilledema. obese women with chronic daily headache and symptoms of increased intracranial pressure, pulsatile tinnitus, history of head trauma or meningitis, an empty sella on imaging studies, or a headache that is unrelieved by standard therapy should have a diagnostic lumbar puncture. findings from laboratory and neurologic investigations are normal in most patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema. initial management should include removal of possible inciting agents, weight loss if applicable, and standard headache therapy. lumbar puncture and diuretic therapy should precede a trial of corticosteroids. surgery (lumboperitoneal or ventriculoperitoneal shunt or perhaps optic nerve sheath fenestration) may be indicated for prolonged incapacitating headache that is not responsive to medical management or lumbar puncture.
tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesions of the head and neck. the term 'tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion' has been used to describe a fibrosclerosing disorder which has a locally destructive nature but is characterized by a benign histological appearance. we report five patients, over a five year period, with such a lesion. the clinical behaviour and surgical findings suggest the lesion to be an invasive malignancy. however, the histological appearance of an admixture of chronic inflammatory cells and fibrosis is consistent with a benign condition. we recommend surgical excision of the lesion as the mainstay of treatment; other studies report the use of steroids and radiotherapy.
historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy. the performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery. from the mid- to late 1940s until the last 10 years, the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity. for reasons that are not clear, the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10% and in several centers, less than 5%. postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients. furthermore, a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected. seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation.
percutaneous pedestal in cochlear implantation. direct electrical connection between an external sound-processing device and intracochlear electrodes is accomplished via a percutaneous pedestal. patient pedestal complaints and experience have been recorded. pedestal problems have been classified into six classes, with class 0 indicating no problems and the severity of problem increasing in classes 1 through 4. class 5 indicates pedestal trauma. no class 5 problems were encountered. at 48 months of experience, 53% of patients were class 0 and 26% were class 1. the pedestal experience is detailed in the paper. the percutaneous pedestal has been found to be a well-tolerated, efficient system for information transfer in cochlear implant patients.
lugol stain for intraoperative determination of the proximal surgical margin of the esophagus. an adequate proximal surgical margin is difficult to determine particularly in cases of esophageal carcinoma with surrounding intraepithelial invasion. we report here readily facilitated intraoperative approaches for detection of the exact margin of carcinomatous invasion of the esophagus. the resected specimen of the esophagus is incised longitudinally and placed in a 1% lugol bath for 2-3 minutes. the normal squamous epithelium includes glycogen that interacts with the iodine of lugol's solution and the normal epithelium of the esophagus becomes a uniform greenish-brown. a squamous cell carcinoma does not include glycogen, hence is not stained with this solution and a clear identification is feasible. thus, a carcinomatous infiltration not recognizable in routine examinations becomes macroscopically visible when lugol's solution is used.
extraperitoneal endarterectomy for iliofemoral occlusive disease. sixty patients with iliofemoral occlusive disease were treated by autogenous anatomic reconstruction by endarterectomy. endarterectomy was performed extra-peritoneally by the eversion technique. the operative technique and its advantages and disadvantages are discussed. six patients had postoperative complications of acute anastomotic hemorrhage (two patients), would hematoma (two patients), and atelectasis (two patients). sixty patients discharged with patient arterial reconstruction were followed up from 5 months to 17 1/2 years, with a mean follow-up of 53 months. there were no other vascular complications. seventy limbs were at risk during this period, with an accumulative patency rate of 80.4% at 5 years and 71.4% at 10 years. there were 11 occlusions of the external iliac artery and one stenosis of the common femoral artery. failures occurred mainly in the external iliac artery, which appears to be the limiting factor in the continued patency of endarterectomy. there were 18 deaths (30%). nine deaths were attributed to the complications of arteriosclerosis.
pathogenesis of hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension. evidence of disordered venous innervation exclusively in the lower limbs. the pathogenesis of hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension was studied in eight patients. correction of the abnormal orthostatic changes by an inflated pressure suit (mast) confirmed previous evidence of excessive gravitational pooling of blood in the leg veins. intravenous l-norepinephrine infusion raised diastolic blood pressure in the same relationship to the infusion-induced increments in plasma norepinephrine concentrations as in normal subjects, indicating normal arteriolar responses. contractile responses of the veins to infused l-norepinephrine were measured with a linear variable differential transformer (lvdt). the venous responses of hand veins in the patients fell within the 95% confidence limits of the responses of normal hand veins, as did the responses of foot veins in the seven normal subjects. however, foot veins of the patients with hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension, and both hand and foot veins of patients with "diffuse" autonomic failure, were supersensitive to norepinephrine, as reflected by a steeper slope of the regression of log (norepinephrine infusion rate) on percentage reduction in venous distensibility, and a significantly lower ed50 (i.e., norepinephrine infusion rate that induced 50% reduction in venous distensibility). the findings suggest anatomical or functional postganglionic denervation of lower limb veins causing excessive gravitational blood pooling with consequent orthostatic hypotension in these patients.
incidence, determinants and significance of delayed clearance of serum hbsag in chronic hepatitis b virus infection: a prospective study. to investigate the incidence, determinants and significance of delayed clearance of serum hbsag in chronic hepatitis b virus infection, a prospective follow-up study was conducted in two consecutive groups of patients. group i consisted of 984 patients (859 men and 125 women) with biopsy-proven chronic type b hepatitis, whereas group ii consisted of 1,598 asymptomatic chronic carriers (998 men and 600 women) with normal serum aminotransferase activity. during a mean follow-up period of 4.0 +/- 2.3 yr, 19 patients (1.9%) of group i cleared hbsag from their serum, whereas 35 patients (2.2%) in group ii did so in a mean follow-up period of 2.7 +/- 1.4 yr. the annual incidence of delayed serum hbsag clearance was 0.5% in group i and 0.8% in group ii (p less than 0.02). the cumulative probability of hbsag clearance was also higher in group ii than in group i (p less than 0.007). antibodies to hbsag developed in 9 patients (47.4%) with chronic hepatitis and in 11 (31.4%) asymptomatic carriers who cleared serum hbsag. those who were hbeag negative and those older than 40 at entry and those who exhibited cirrhosis during follow-up had a higher incidence of delayed hbsag clearance. gender, initial histological changes and hepatitis delta virus infection did not influence the occurrence of hbsag clearance. serum hbv dna was not detectable by slot-blot hybridization but was still detectable by polymerase chain reaction in serum specimens collected within 1 yr of hbsag clearance. liver biopsy performed later in 10 patients showed no significant hepatitis activity or tissue hbv dna, hbsag or hbcag.
cytogenetic damage induced by folate deficiency in mice is enhanced by caffeine. folate deficiency in swiss mice increased the incidence of micronuclei in peripheral blood erythrocytes, indicating increased chromosomal damage in nucleated erythrocyte precursors. caffeine enhanced the incidence of micronuclei in blood and bone marrow by up to 5-fold in folate-deficient mice at doses that did not significantly alter the micronucleus frequency in the presence of adequate dietary folate. the lower dose of caffeine used in this study (75 mg/kg) approaches doses received by humans who consume large amounts of caffeinated beverages. since folate deficiency and caffeine consumption are highly prevalent in the human population, the potential for a similar interaction in man should be evaluated.
cholecystokinin stimulates growth of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma sw-1990. the effect of a synthetic analogue of cck (thr4,nle7cck-9) on growth of sw-1990 human pancreatic cancer was examined in two experimental models. nude mice bearing sw-1990 pancreatic cancer xenografts were injected with cck (5, 15, or 25 micrograms/kg) or vehicle twice daily for 20 days. animals were then sacrificed and tumor volume, weight, protein, and deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) content were evaluated. sw-1990 cells were grown in vitro and the effects of cck, secretin, vasoactive intestinal peptide (vip), and proglumide (a cck-receptor antagonist) on cell number and dna synthesis were determined. the highest dose of cck, 25 micrograms/kg, significantly increased tumor weight, protein content, and dna content (p less than 0.005). in vitro, cck caused significant increases in cell counts of up to 47% at six days and 66% at 12 days compared to control. graded concentrations of cck had a biphasic effect on dna synthesis with significant increases of up to 65% (p less than 0.005). cck-induced cell proliferation was inhibited by proglumide. secretin slightly increased cancer cell growth, although not as potently as cck, vip or secretin in combination with cck did not show potentiation. these results indicate that growth of some human pancreatic cancers may be influenced by gastrointestinal peptides, of which cck is the most potent.
acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria. enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage. rarely, in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity, enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure. we report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea. one patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea. both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition. the mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion. enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction.
chronic pain. understanding of the etiology of chronic pain is growing rapidly as researchers seek to integrate physiologic and psychosocial mechanisms. when nurses assess clients with chronic pain, they should make their assessments using both verbal and nonverbal methods and realize that no one instrument is comprehensive enough to be used alone. the key to successful treatment of these difficult clients lies in the use of a comprehensive approach that takes the client seriously and integrates both physiologic and psychosocial approaches.
systemic to pulmonary bronchial blood flow in mitral stenosis. we measured systemic to pulmonary bronchial blood flow [qbr(s-p)] during total cardiopulmonary bypass in 15 patients with mitral stenosis and elevated pulmonary venous pressure (group a, mean pulmonary wedge pressure = 22.2 +/- 5.4 mm hg, mean +/- sd) and in 15 patients with coronary artery diseases and normal pulmonary venous pressure (group b). qbr(s-p) is the volume of blood accumulating in the left side of the heart in the absence of pulmonary and coronary flows. this blood was vented through a cannula introduced into the left atrium and measured. qbr(s-p) was 76.3 +/- 13.9 ml/min (2.18 +/- 0.37 percent of extracorporeal circulation pump flow) and 22.3 +/- 2.1 (0.63 +/- 0.15) in group a and b, respectively (p less than 0.01). during total cardiopulmonary bypass, pulmonary venous pressure is approximately atmospheric pressure, and no differences in systemic blood pressure, extracorporeal circulation pump flow, and airways pressure were observed between group a and b. therefore, vascular resistance through the bronchial vessels draining into the pulmonary circulation is reduced in patients with mitral stenosis and elevated pulmonary venous pressure.
intrapartum uterine rupture and inflammatory bowel disease. the incidence of uterine rupture in pregnant women ranges from 0% to 1.1% in large series. this case report describes a woman with a history of obstetric complications, uterine rupture, and active inflammatory bowel disease that was treated with high-dose prednisone.
uniparental paternal disomy in angelman's syndrome. angelman's syndrome and prader-willi syndrome are both causes of mental retardation with recognisable, but quite different, clinical phenotypes. both are associated with deletions of chromosome 15q11-13, of maternal origin in angelman's and paternal in prader-willi. prader-willi can arise by inheritance of two chromosomes 15 from the mother and none from the father (uniparental maternal disomy). in 2 patients with angelman's syndrome we found evidence of uniparental paternal disomy. the phenotypic effects of maternal and paternal disomy of chromosome 15 are very different and inheritance of two normal 15s from one parent does not lead to normal development--strong evidence in man for genomic imprinting, in which the same gene has different effects dependent upon its parental origin.
transbronchial biopsies in children after heart-lung transplantation. sixty transbronchial biopsies have been performed in eight children after heart-lung transplantation. the selection of fiber-optic bronchoscope or a small (4 mm; 30 cm) rigid bronchoscope was made according to the size of endotracheal tube required at surgery. if the endotracheal tube was size 7.5 or greater, a fiber-optic bronchoscope was used, whereas if the endotracheal tube size was below 7, a rigid bronchoscope was used. for the diagnosis of lung rejection, the histology of biopsies revealed a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 69% (similar to the result in adults). the histology also distinguished lung infection from rejection. complications included three pneumothoraces and two clinically significant episodes of hemorrhage, one of which led to a cardiorespiratory arrest, which may have been caused by hypoxia. as a result, arterial oxygen saturation is now monitored during the procedure using a pulse oximeter.
prediction of outcome in acute pancreatitis: a comparative study of apache ii, clinical assessment and multiple factor scoring systems. the apache ii severity of disease classification system has been examined prospectively in 160 patients with acute pancreatitis. using clinical and simple laboratory data apache ii was able to provide useful discrimination between uncomplicated, complicated and fatal attacks within a few hours of admission. peak apache ii scores (recorded during the first 3 days) had a prognostic accuracy similar to the multiple factor scoring systems, but then incurred a similar delay. patients could be graded according to their risk of death or of developing a major complication; no deaths occurred in patients with a peak apache ii score less than 10. apache ii can be repeated daily, uncomplicated attacks demonstrating falling scores in association with clinical improvement, in contrast to the rising scores associated with clinical deterioration in those dying early. apache ii appears to reflect any continuing disease activity and may prove a useful means of monitoring the course of the illness and response to therapy.
local hypothermia to prolong safe tourniquet time. local hypothermia was studied as a method to safely prolong tourniquet time for reconstructive procedures of the upper extremity. an ice blanket constructed of flannel cloth and cold gel packs was applied to the limb for 45 minutes preoperatively. seventy-eight patients were evaluated for complications resulting from hypothermia and prolonged tourniquet application. the duration of continuous tourniquet ischemia averaged two hours and 25 minutes. intraoperative muscle temperature recordings indicated that the iced limbs were an average of 12.9 degrees cooler than noniced limbs before tourniquet inflation. electron microscopic studies of biopsied muscle showed no evidence of ischemic changes. there were no postoperative complications associated with prolonged tourniquet inflation or the hypothermia blanket technique. local hypothermia appears to be a safe and effective method of decreasing the adverse effects of tourniquet ischemia and allowing continuous tourniquet inflation time to extend safely beyond the customary two-hour limit.
diastolic dysfunction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. effect on active force generation during systole. we tested the hypothesis that intracellular ca++ [( ca++]i) overload underlies the diastolic dysfunction of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. myocardial tissue was obtained at the time of surgery or transplantation from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and was compared with control myocardium obtained from patients without heart disease. the isometric contractions and electrophysiologic properties of all myocardial specimens were recorded by standard techniques and [ca++]i was measured with the bioluminescent calcium indicator aequorin. in contrast to the controls, action potentials, ca++ transients, and isometric contraction and relaxation were markedly prolonged in the hypertrophic myocardium, and the ca++ transients consisted of two distinct components. at 38 degrees c and 1 hz pacing frequency, a state of relative ca++ overload appeared develop, which produced a rise in end-diastolic [ca++]i, incomplete relaxation, and fusion of twitches with a resultant decrease in active tension development. we also found that drugs with increase [ca++]i, such as digitalis, exacerbated these abnormalities, whereas drugs that lower [ca++]i, such as verapamil, or agents that increase cyclic amp, such as forskolin, prevented them. these results may explain why patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tolerate tachycardia poorly, and may have important implications with regard to the pharmacologic treatment of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
doppler echocardiographic study of porcine bioprosthetic heart valves in the aortic valve position in patients without evidence of cardiac dysfunction. to study the natural history of the hemodynamic performance of bioprosthetic heart valves, doppler echocardiograms were recorded in a group of clinically stable patients at 2 and 5 years after replacement of native aortic valves with bioprosthetic valves. eighteen patients completed a 2-year and 26 patients a 5-year follow-up examination. the effective orifice areas of identical models of bioprosthetic valves (hancock ii) were determined in vitro in a left-sided heart pulse duplicator system. in vivo doppler-derived effective orifice areas were compared with the in vitro measurements for the same valve size. at both the 2- and 5-year follow-up examinations, the doppler-derived effective orifice area was significantly less than the in vitro area (p less than 0.0001 at each interval). ten of 16 valves evaluated serially decreased greater than 0.20 cm2 in the doppler-derived effective orifice area between studies. the mean decrease in effective orifice area in valves evaluated serially was 0.25 +/- 0.29 cm2 (p less than 0.005). the peak transaortic gradient increased from 21 +/- 6 to 27 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than 0.01). the mean transaortic gradient increased from 12 +/- 4 to 15 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.05). it is concluded that serial doppler echocardiographic studies demonstrate a deterioration in the hemodynamic performance of bioprosthetic valves over time in patients with no symptoms or signs of valvular dysfunction and that doppler echocardiography may be useful for identifying subclinical bioprosthetic valvular dysfunction.
yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon. report of a case. yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity. only five cases have previously been reported--none in the surgical literature. a unique presentation for yersinia infection, abscess of the transverse colon, is described, and the literature of y. enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed.
efficacy and morbidity of partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy. in recent years, we have seen increasing use of partial laryngectomies for larger lesions that were previously treated by total laryngectomy. the resultant closer margins have made postoperative radiation therapy an important adjuvant treatment to conservation laryngeal surgery. we review the university of california, los angeles, experience with combination partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy between 1973 and 1987 for treatment of carcinoma of the larynx. twenty-four such patients who underwent partial laryngectomies and postoperative radiation therapy are examined. techniques of treatment, complications, and the functional ability of the remaining larynx are discussed. the locoregional control rate at 5 years was 80%. risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence were positive margins, vascular invasion, and extranodal spread. there were no major problems with postoperative wound healing or airway management during the radiation treatment. vocal and swallowing function were well preserved in most cases. we conclude that combination partial laryngectomy and radiation therapy permits preservation of laryngeal function without serious complications, and therefore is an effective treatment for selected patients with carcinoma of the larynx.
permanent external striated sphincter stents in patients with spinal injuries. nine patients with complete quadriplegia underwent external striated sphincter stenting with the wallstent in place of an external striated sphincterotomy. although suprapubic catheters were placed to provide an outlet should problems develop with the stent, they were successfully removed within 6 weeks in all but 1 patient. complete bladder emptying with reduced voiding pressures was achieved, together with a significant reduction in the duration of hyper-reflexic contractions. epithelialisation of the stent was almost complete within 3 months and intermittent catheterisation or endoscopy (and resection) is possible through the stent. although this is a preliminary report of this new technique, it is hoped that sphincter stenting will provide a rapid, safe and effective method of treating high pressure hyper-reflexia and detrusor sphincter dyssynergia in quadriplegic patients.
cochlear implant flap complications. in a series of 52 patients who received cochlear implants, 4 patients suffered flap complications (7.7%). the problems encountered involved the postauricular flap and were usually minor in nature. none required explantation as a direct result of these complications. flap ischemia in a patient with cogan's syndrome and vasculitis, two cases of suture extrusion with one having exposure of the implant, and a case of receiver unit magnet extrusion repaired with a vascularized pericranial flap based upon temporalis muscle are presented. flap design in patients who have had postauricular incisions demands special consideration. principles useful for avoiding complications as well as their management are discussed.
insulin and hypertension. relationship to obesity and glucose intolerance in pima indians. the relationships among blood pressure, obesity, glucose tolerance, and serum insulin concentration were studied in 2873 pima indians aged 18-92 yr (mean 37 yr). age- and sex-adjusted to the pima population, the prevalence of hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mmhg, diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmhg, or receiving drug treatment) was 7.1% for subjects with normal glucose tolerance compared with 13.0% for subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (igt) and 19.8% for those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) (p less than 0.001). the prevalence ratio of hypertension was 1.8 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.2-2.5) for igt and 2.6 (95% ci 2.0-3.2) for niddm compared with normal glucose tolerance, controlled for age, sex, and body mass index (bmi). in logistic regression analysis, hypertension was positively related to age, male sex, bmi, glucose tolerance, and fasting but not 2-h postload serum insulin concentration. among subjects not taking antihypertensive drugs, however, neither fasting nor 2-h postload serum insulin was significantly related to hypertension. furthermore, in 2033 subjects receiving neither antihypertensive nor antidiabetic drugs, blood pressure was not significantly correlated to fasting insulin concentration, and 2-h postload serum insulin was negatively correlated with diastolic blood pressure. in conclusion, insulin is not significantly related to blood pressure in pima indians not receiving antihypertensive drugs. higher insulin concentrations in drug-treated hypertensive patients might result from the treatment rather than contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension. thus, these data do not support a major role for insulin in determining the occurrence of hypertension or regulation of blood pressure in pima indians.
tumors of the central nervous system. improvement in outcome through a multimodality approach. more children with cns tumors will continue to be cured of their neoplasms as a result of improved surgical, radiotherapeutic, and chemotherapeutic intervention. the complex problems seen in these patients mandate their treatment at academic centers actively involved in therapeutic investigations and capable of providing comprehensive multidisciplinary care.
epidurography in premature infants. a caudal epidural catheter was inserted in 20 premature, high risk infants for abdominal or thoracic surgery under combined caudal epidural and general anaesthesia. epidurography was used to confirm the position of the catheter which was found to be misplaced in three patients. the catheter penetrated the dura in one case, in another the tip was located in an epidural vessel and in the third the catheter was seen to be curled up within the epidural space. it was concluded that epidurographic control is essential with this method of anaesthesia in very small infants, in whom it was found to provide considerable advantages despite serious risks.
experimental short-bowel syndrome: effect of an elemental diet supplemented with short-chain triglycerides. to determine whether short-chain triglycerides (scts, 1:1 triacetin:tributyrin, wt:wt) enhance intestinal adaptation in short-bowel syndrome (sbs), male sprague-dawley rats underwent 60% distal small-bowel resection with cecectomy and received either a chemically defined diet (cd) or a cd containing 40% of nonprotein energy as either medium-chain triglycerides (mcts) or scts. after 12 d the sct group had significantly increased jejunal mucosal weight compared with the mct and cd groups and had significantly increased segment weight and mucosal protein compared with the cd group. in the colon the sct group had significantly increased segment and mucosal weights and mucosal protein and dna compared with both the mct and cd groups. body-weight change and measurements of serum ketones, albumin, glucose, and triglycerides revealed no significant differences among groups. scts improved jejunal and colonic adaptive growth and maintained comparable nutritional status in sbs when compared with cd alone or cd with mcts.
extramedullary blast crisis in a patient with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia in complete cytogenetic remission. treatment of philadelphia (ph) chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) with recombinant interferon-alpha (ifn-a) results in complete disappearance of the ph chromosome in about 10% to 15% of patients in early chronic phase. this group has a long survival and very low incidence of blast crisis. the first known case is reported of extramedullary blastic transformation in a patient with medullary complete cytogenetic response (0% ph-positive metaphases) to ifn-a. four episodes of extramedullary blast crisis have occurred in this patient. the first three episodes were lymphoid by morphology and cytochemical stains. molecular analysis confirmed breakpoint cluster region rearrangement. the most recent transformation was myeloid in nature and involved bone and pulmonary parenchyma. the patient is currently undergoing a second autologous transplantation with stored bone marrow that is ph negative. the patient has survived more than 18 months since the first episode of blast crisis, and the bone marrow is normal.
brain stem and spinal metastases of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme: a clinical series. although the spread of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme to the brain stem and spine has been extensively described in published autopsy series, information on the diagnosis, treatment, and subsequent clinical course of patients manifesting symptoms of glioblastomatous dissemination ante mortem remains scant. we report a series of 11 patients having the signs and symptoms of neuraxis dissemination of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme. all patients had radiographic documentation of metastases by either contrast-enhanced myelograms or enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans. ten presented with spinal involvement, whereas one presented with lower cranial neuropathies secondary to diffuse involvement of the basal cisterns. the mean age of the patients was 38.5 years, and the mean time interval between diagnosis of intracranial disease and diagnosis of metastases was 14.1 months. after diagnosis of tumor spread, subsequent mean survival time was 2.8 months. all patients received additional radiotherapy to the areas of metastasis, but the clinical response to radiotherapy was quite poor. this study confirms previous reports in the literature suggesting that metastases occur in younger patients and in patients with extended survival. the findings suggest that the relatively infrequent clinical incidence of the symptomatic spread of glioblastoma multiforme, as compared with the frequent incidental discovery of such spread at autopsy, may be the result of the limited survival of the affected patients, and not due to the biology of the tumor.
neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. a case of absence of somatostatin in a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, bombesin-, and cholecystokinin-producing tumor. a 31-year-old patient with a clinical picture of obstructive jaundice had surgical treatment, and a primary carcinoid of the ampulla of vater (va) was found. the tumor was studied with light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. the neoplasm had histopathologic and cytopathologic features similar to those encountered in typical neuroendocrine neoplasms. it is interesting that immunohistochemical techniques disclosed the presence of vasointestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin, and bombesin; however, unlike most neuroendocrine neoplasms arising in va, no somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were found.
effects of hyaluronic acid fractions in the rabbit eye. two fractions of hyaluronic acid with different molecular weight (ial, molecular weight 500,000-730,000 and healon, molecular weight 750,000) were injected intracamerally or intravitreously in the rabbit eye. although the fraction with higher molecular weight caused an increase in intraocular pressure, no change of this parameter was found after administration of the fraction with the lower molecular weight. furthermore, various inflammatory reactions in ocular tissues were observed during slit-lamp biomicroscopy after administration of healon but not of ial. no inflammatory reaction was found after subchronic instillation of the compounds.
spectral analysis of heart rate in diabetic autonomic neuropathy. a comparison with standard tests of autonomic function. power spectral analysis of the heart rate was compared with standard tests of autonomic function performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with symptoms of autonomic dysfunction. the high-frequency power, low-frequency power, and total power of the heart rate power spectrum measured in the supine position--possible measures of parasympathetic nervous system function--were significant predictors of the expiratory-inspiratory ratio, the beat-to-beat heart rate difference on deep respiration, the standard deviation of the resting heart rate, the 30:15 ratio, and the valsalva ratio. the change in low-frequency power on moving from the supine to upright position, a possible measure of sympathetic nervous system function, was a modest predictor of the systolic and diastolic blood pressure fall in response to postural change, but a poor predictor of the blood pressure response to isometric exercise and a cold stimulus. this study supports the role of heart rate power spectral analysis as a clinical test of autonomic function in patients with known or suspected autonomic failure.
gallbladder perforation: correlation of cholescintigraphic and sonographic findings with the niemeier classification. we retrospectively analyzed the cholescintigrams and sonograms of 36 consecutive patients with gallbladder perforation to (a) determine the sensitivity of each for the preoperative detection of gallbladder perforation and (b) correlate the findings with the modified niemeier classification. cholescintigraphic criteria of perforation (free spill, pericholecystic hepatic activity, and scintigraphic gallstone ileus sign) were detected in 14 of 28 (50%) cases, while sonographic criteria of perforation (pericholecystic fluid or pneumobilia with gallstones) were present in 18% (4 of 22) of patients (p less than 0.05). cholescintigraphic patterns of perforation associated with the niemeier classification were: type i (acute free perforation), 3 of 7 scans demonstrated free spill; type ii (subacute pericholecystic abscess), 9 of 19 scans showed pericholecystic activity; and type iii (chronic cholecystoenteric fistula), 1 of 3 scans showed a scintigraphic gallstone ileus. thus, although cholescintigraphy appears superior to sonography, both modalities are relatively insensitive for the detection of gallbladder perforation.
expandable biliary metal stents for malignancies: endoscopic insertion and diathermic cleaning for tumor ingrowth. seventeen patients with malignant biliary strictures have been treated by endoscopic insertion of self-expandable metallic prostheses. two patients received two prostheses inserted simultaneously in both the left and right hepatic ducts for klatskin tumor type iii. immediate results were satisfactory despite an operative mortality of 18%, and neither early nor late clogging was observed even in patients who presented previously with sludge above plastic stents that were removed. however, among five patients followed for more than 4 months, two presented with obstruction due to tumor ingrowth into the stent through the metallic mesh. accordingly, initial enthusiasm concerning long-term patency of these stents has decreased. however, we describe a technique of "diathermic cleaning" of tumor ingrowth which can easily restore the stent patency. the advantages of these wire mesh 30 f stents are their easier insertion, better immediate drainage, and absence of dislocation or perforation.
when do cerebral emboli appear during open heart operations? a transcranial doppler study. the transcranial doppler technique enabled the detection of cerebral air emboli in 10 of 10 patients during open-heart valve operations despite standard deairing procedures. with this technique, the occurrence of emboli in the right middle cerebral artery was followed continuously in patients undergoing aortic or mitral valve replacement. membrane oxygenators were used. scattered emboli were observed during the insertion of the aortic cannula, at the start of cardiopulmonary bypass, and after the declamping of the aorta with the heart beating while empty. during the period of aortic cross-clamping, no emboli were detected. despite careful deairing procedures, the recordings indicated a large amount of emboli during filling of the empty beating heart in all 10 patients. thus, this study indicates that cerebral emboli in open heart procedures are most likely to occur during the redistribution of blood from the heart-lung machine to the patient when the heart is beginning to eject actively, despite careful standard deairing procedures. meticulous deairing before declamping the aorta is strongly advocated. in addition, a short period of filling of the beating heart before final closure of the aortic incision or vent may decrease the incidence of cerebral emboli. a concomitant reduction in cerebral blood flow by hyperventilation or anesthetics or both during filling of the empty beating heart may also be beneficial.
oromandibular disorders and headache. a critical appraisal. oromandibular disorders are functional disorders and associated pains in the anatomic region of the temporomandibular joint. their diagnosis and treatment are controversial because of the lack of conformity concerning these disorders among health care providers. this article provides a clear classification of these disorders and critically reviews their evaluation and treatment.
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery--ii: incidence and severity during the 1st week after surgery. the study of perioperative ischemia (spi) research group. because of the importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia and because substantial physiologic changes can occur for prolonged periods postoperatively, the incidence, severity and temporal course of myocardial ischemia were studied in 100 high risk patients during the 1st week after major noncardiac surgery. electrocardiographic (ecg) changes consistent with ischemia were continuously monitored using ambulatory solid state ecg in the 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease. ischemic episodes were defined as reversible st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm above the baseline value, with the baseline adjusted for respiratory and positional variation and temporal drift. all ischemic episodes were confirmed by three independent blinded investigators using hard-copy recordings. total ecg monitoring time was 10,445 h. twenty-seven patients (27%) developed 437 episodes of ischemia during the 1st week after surgery. the total duration of ischemia was 18,658 min, or 1.8 min of ischemia/h monitored. ischemia was most severe during the early (days 0 to 3) versus late (days 4 to 7) postoperative period: 284 versus 153 episodes; 2.2 versus 1.2 min of ischemia/h. the greatest severity occurred on postoperative day 3: 109 episodes, 3.4 min of ischemia/h monitored, 1.5 mm mean st change and 130 min mean duration. however, in 8% of patients, severe episodes also occurred late: postoperative day 6 = 44 episodes, 1.7 min of ischemia/h monitored, 1.3 mm mean st change (59% greater than or equal to 2 mm) and 92 min mean duration. most ischemic episodes (57%) were associated with tachycardia.
continuous epidural hydromorphone for postthoracotomy pain relief forty-four patients were treated with a continuous infusion of lumbar epidural hydromorphone (0.05%) after thoracic operations. postoperatively, visual analog pain scores were obtained. on postoperative day 1 and 2, more than 90% of the patients experienced either no pain (visual analog pain scale = 0) or mild pain (visual analog pain score = 1 to 3) at rest. the incidence of side effects (hypoventilation, pruritis, and nausea) was less than reported with other epidurally administered opioids. continuous infusion of lumbar epidural hydromorphone produced safe, predictable analgesia after thoracotomy.
immunoglobulins a, g, and m to cytomegalovirus during recurrent infection in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. occurrence and significance of specific iga and igm to cytomegalovirus (cmv) in recurrent cmv infection was evaluated in 21 allogeneic t lymphocyte-depleted bone marrow transplantation (bmt) recipients who had been previously cmv seropositive. of 17 patients with cmv infection, viruria was detected in 94%, cmv-specific iga in 88% and igm in 76%, and a fourfold rise in igg in 65%. the median time between bmt and detection of viruria was 69 days, of iga 70, of igm 62, and of igg 88 days. the igm and iga responses lasted for 14 and 30 days (median time), whereas high igg titers persisted. twelve patients developed cmv disease; in these the appearance of viruria, iga, and igm preceded the rise of igg (p less than .02). cmv-specific iga and igm are valuable diagnostic tools in bmt recipients with recurrent cmv infection.
the role of carotid screening before coronary artery bypass. five hundred thirty-nine patients with no symptoms of cerebral ischemia undergoing coronary artery bypass were preoperatively evaluated for presence of carotid stenosis by noninvasive methods (duplex scanning and ocular pneumoplethysmography-gee). overall prevalence of carotid stenosis greater than 75% was higher (8.7%) than that generally reported. age greater than 60 years was significantly related to presence of carotid stenosis greater than 75% (11.3% vs 3.8%, p = 0.003). risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking were not predictive for carotid stenosis, postoperative stroke, or death. carotid stenosis greater than 75% (odds ratio 9.87, p less than 0.005) and coronary artery bypass redo (odds ratio 5.26, p less than 0.05) were both independent predictors of stroke risk. patients were divided into four groups: group 1, minimal or mild degree of carotid stenosis (less than 50%), not submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (432 patients, 80.1%); group 2, moderate degree of stenosis (50% to 75%), no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (60 patients, 11.2%); group 3, severe carotid stenosis; (greater than 75%), submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (19 patients, 3.5%), group 4, severe carotid stenosis (greater than 75%) no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (28 patients, 5.2%). patients in group 4 had significantly higher stroke rate (14.3%) compared to the other three groups (1.1%) (p = 0.0019). the finding of carotid stenosis greater than 75% in patients over 60 years of age was associated with occurrence of stroke in 15% of cases. carotid screening is helpful to determine patients at increased risk of stroke and should be performed in patients greater than 60 years.
treatment of wegener's granulomatosis with intermittent high-dose intravenous cyclophosphamide purpose: concerns regarding the long-term toxicity of daily cyclophosphamide (cp) therapy for the systemic vasculitides have led us to evaluate alternative approaches to treatment in an attempt to achieve comparable efficacy with less toxicity. this study sought to determine the efficacy, toxicity, and immunologic effects of glucocorticoids (gc) and intermittent high-dose intravenous cp ("pulse" cp) in the treatment of 14 patients with wegener's granulomatosis (wg). patients and methods: the diagnosis of active wg was supported by a typical clinical presentation and histopathologic findings of vasculitis, granulomatous inflammation, and tissue necrosis. gc treatment was initially provided on a daily basis and later tapered to an alternate-day schedule if vasculitis remained inactive. pulse cp treatment was initially administered once a month for 6 months. if after 6 months remission had been attained and gc therapy had been discontinued, then pulse cp treatment was given at less frequent intervals thereafter. treatment and evaluation were provided for participants as inpatients in a clinical research center (national institutes of health). results: thirteen of 14 patients (93%) initially experienced unequivocal improvement with pulse cp therapy, and seven of 14 (50%) achieved remission within 4 months. however, treatment was associated with significant toxicity in two patients and later relapses in nine patients, so that a total of 79% either failed to achieve sustained remission or were unable to continue therapy. three of 14 (21%) patients have achieved sustained remissions with the pulse cp protocol and one additional patient (who had a limited exacerbation of wg) continues to receive that therapy after 14 to 22 months (mean 17 months). conclusions: the use of pulse cp and gc therapy in 14 patients with wg was associated with a high initial response rate. however, failure to respond initially to treatment, to sustain improvement, or to tolerate continued treatment was noted in 79% of patients within a period of 1 to 22 months. these observations indicate that this particular pulse cp protocol does not achieve a high degree of lasting efficacy.
silent myocardial ischemia: dilemma or blessing? developing an optimal strategy for the evaluation and management of patients with silent myocardial ischemia is extremely difficult. although otherwise healthy, asymptomatic individuals may be at risk of dying suddenly during exercise, neither exercise testing nor holter monitoring reliably identifies those at greatest risk. in patients with underlying coronary artery disease, silent ischemia increases the risk of an adverse outcome.
echocardiographic diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva: operation without catheterisation in seven patients. a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva was diagnosed by doppler, colour, and cross sectional echocardiography in a consecutive series of seven patients. the diagnoses were confirmed at operation without cardiac catheterisation. examination by pulsed and continuous doppler echocardiography showed continuous turbulence in six patients with aneurysms rupturing into the right ventricular outflow tract and in the patient with rupture of an aneurysm of the non-coronary sinus into the right atrium. colour doppler echocardiography showed turbulent flow across the defects in all seven patients. a ventricular septal defect with aortic regurgitation was detected in one patient and an associated ventricular septal defect in another. doppler, colour, and cross sectional echocardiography were useful non-invasive techniques for diagnosing a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva without the need for cardiac catheterisation.
the effect of enoximone and dobutamine on hemodynamic performance after open heart surgery. a clinical comparison. in a prospective, randomized study the phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone was compared to dobutamine after open heart surgery. in either group 25 patients were treated with enoximone and dobutamine, respectively, beginning immediately after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass until 4 hours postoperatively. the drug was administered as a continuous infusion of 5 micrograms/min/kg body weight. under enoximone a significant increase of cardiac output [enoximone (e): + 100%; dobutamine (d): + 38%] and a significant decrease of pulmonary vascular resistance (e: -34%, d: +65%) and of total systemic vascular resistance (e: -59%, d: -7%) was achieved. systemic blood pressure and heart rate were not different. side effects were not observed. enoximone proved to be safe and superior to dobutamine in low cardiac output states after open heart surgery.
the risk of large bowel cancer after partial gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease. the relative risk (standardized incidence ratio [sir] for colorectal cancer after partial gastrectomy for ulcer disease was examined in a population-based cohort comprising 6459 patients operated during 1950 to 1958. follow-up through 1983 revealed 131 cases of colorectal cancer versus 150.3 expected cases (sir = 0.87; 95% confidence limits 0.73, 1.03). the relative risk was decreased during the first 19 years of follow-up (sir = 0.75; 0.58, 0.96) and close to equal thereafter (sir = 1.02; 0.79, 1.29). sex, age at operation, type of operation, and diagnosis at operation (stomach or duodenal ulcer) did not affect the relative risk significantly. confounding by socioeconomic status is one conceivable explanation for the decreased relative risk during the first years of follow-up, whereas the increasing risk with longer duration of follow-up might be a consequence of the surgical procedure itself.
placebo controlled trial of xamoterol versus digoxin in chronic atrial fibrillation. thirteen patients in chronic atrial fibrillation with a normal resting heart rate but with exercise tachycardia and episodes of bradycardia were randomised to treatment periods of two weeks on xamoterol (200 mg twice daily), low dose digoxin, or placebo, in a blind crossover study. the results (mean sem) of symptom scores, a treadmill exercise test, and 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained. xamoterol improved symptom scores and controlled exercise heart rate better than digoxin. xamoterol was better than digoxin or placebo in reducing the heart rate response to exercise and tended to improve exercise duration. xamoterol, by reducing the daytime maximum hourly heart rate and increasing the night time minimum hourly heart rate, significantly reduced the difference between the two compared with placebo. in contrast, digoxin tended to reduce both the maximum and minimum hourly heart rates through day and night. both the frequency and duration of ventricular pauses were reduced by xamoterol but tended to increase with digoxin. xamoterol reduced both the circadian variation in ventricular response to atrial fibrillation and exercise tachycardia by modulating the heart rate according to the prevailing level of sympathetic activity. these changes were translated into symptomatic benefit for the patients studied.
basilar artery occlusion in rats. the basilar artery is one of the three major sources of blood supply to the circle of willis. to investigate the effects of basilar artery occlusion, we surgically exposed and coagulated the basilar artery in 25 rats. basilar artery occlusion at any single point between the foramen magnum and the circle of willis in 11 rats did not produce histologically detectable infarcts in the brain at 12-24 hours. two-point occlusions of the basilar artery in 12 rats produced variable infarcts between the occlusion sites but no ischemic lesions elsewhere. after either single- or double-point occlusions, the proximal basilar artery refilled within 2-3 minutes. when the basilar artery was occluded above and below the origins of the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries, the artery segments between the occlusion points initially collapsed but refilled within 2-3 minutes in two rats. basilar artery occlusions invariably suppressed cortical somatosensory evoked potentials by greater than 50%. regardless of whether a brain stem infarct developed, somatosensory evoked potential amplitudes recovered to greater than baseline levels by 4 hours in seven of 17 rats and returned to baseline levels by 24 hours in every rat tested. we conclude that the occluded basilar artery receives extensive retrograde collateral blood flow and that somatosensory evoked potentials are exquisitely sensitive to basilar artery occlusion but are insensitive to whether brain stem infarcts develop.
intraoperative anaphylaxis: an association with latex sensitivity. latex products have recently been identified as the cause of severe intraoperative anaphylactic reactions. we have identified a group of pediatric patients who appear to be at increased risk for such reactions. fifteen patients with either spina bifida or congenital urologic abnormalities experienced 19 intraoperative anaphylactic reactions. all patients had frequent previous exposures to rubber materials since infancy as part of their management and/or investigative procedures. seven of 15 patients had a previous history of local skin reactions to rubber. only four patients were atopic. all patients had undergone multiple (two of 26) operative procedures before their reactions, the onset of which ranged from 40 to 290 minutes after induction of anesthesia. the reactions varied in intensity from urticaria to severe cardiorespiratory collapse. all these patients subsequently had positive allergy skin tests and positive rast to latex antigen. we conclude that this group is at risk when they are exposed to latex intraoperatively as a result of frequent past exposure to these materials. allergic evaluation for latex allergy may assist in the preoperative evaluation of similar patients. in sensitized patients, appropriate prophylactic measures, particularly the avoidance of latex, is required.
proximal posterior cerebral artery occlusion simulating middle cerebral artery occlusion. we describe 12 cases of acute stroke in which clinical features of proximal posterior cerebral artery occlusion simulated the clinical syndrome of middle cerebral artery occlusion. the majority of patients developed contralateral hemiparesis, homonymous hemianopia, hemispatial neglect, and sensory loss or sensory inattention. all 8 patients with dominant hemisphere lesions were aphasic. accurate diagnosis in each case was achieved only after a head ct, showing occipital lobe, thalamic, and inferomesial temporal lobe infarction. "cortical" signs are probably explained by thalamic involvement. recognition of this syndrome has implications for management and prognosis.
reoperation for intra-abdominal abscess. reoperative procedures for patients with abscess and other septic complications remain among the most difficult management problems in general surgery. the diagnosis of intra-abdominal septic complications has been greatly enhanced within the last 10 years but remains imperfect and requires clinical judgment that transcends objective methods. surgical drainage remains the mainstay of care for patients with postoperative intraabdominal abscess.
the natural history of intimal flaps in a canine model. the natural history of arterial intimal flaps has not been well defined. this study characterizes the natural history of unrepaired intimal flaps. thirty-nine 1-, 2-, and 3-mm hemispheric, distally based intimal flaps were made in 4- to 5-mm diameter canine femoral and carotid arteries. twenty arteries had 2- and 3-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for short-term arterial thrombosis and flap extension. nineteen had 1- and 2-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for thrombosis, long-term development of neointimal hyperplasia, arterial stenosis, and persistence of the flap. while 40% of the arteries with 3-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis in 3 to 5 days, only 3% of the arteries with 1- or 2-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis. most 1- to 2-mm intimal flaps resolved and the subsequent development of neointimal hyperplasia or arterial stenosis was minimal. arteries with hemodynamically significant stenoses from intimal flaps warrant repair, while arteries with smaller intimal flaps may not require repair.
evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring: a case study approach. three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation (svo2) monitoring in critical care nursing practice. examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how svo2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization. in the first case, the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery. continuous svo2 data aided nurses in guiding, adjusting, and assessing therapy. the second case demonstrates how svo2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication. the final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization. in all the cases, continuous svo2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization.
pachyonychia congenita complicated by hidradenitis suppurativa: a family study. a family is described in which five of the six members with the jackson-lawler type of pachyonychia congenita also had varying degrees of hidradenitis suppurativa. we suggest an association between this type of pachyonychia congenita and hidradenitis suppurativa.
cardiovascular-sympathetic adjustments to nonexertional heat stress in mature and senescent fischer 344 rats. the purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the cardiovascular-sympathetic nervous system adjustments during nonexertional heat stress are exaggerated in senescent (s, 24 mo) vs. mature (m, 12 mo) conscious unrestrained fischer 344 rats. during two separate trials (48 h apart), each animal was exposed to an ambient temperature (ta) of 42 degrees c until a colonic temperature (tco) of 41 degrees c was attained and then cooled at a ta of 26 degrees c until tco returned to the initial control level. trial 1: heart rate (hr), mean arterial blood pressure (map), and arterial plasma concentrations of norepinephrine (ne), epinephrine (e), and lactate (la) were similar between the s and m groups during the baseline (control) period. the absolute increases in hr, map, ne, and e from the control period to the end of heating were of similar magnitudes between groups; however, la increased more in the s than m animals (p less than 0.05). during recovery, the declines toward control levels for all variables were similar or even more rapid in the s vs. m animals (p less than 0.05). trial 2: the changes in hr and map during heating were similar to those observed in trial 1 in both groups. generally, ne and e control levels were elevated in both groups compared with those in trial 1. the absolute increases in ne during heating were similar to trial 1 in both groups, whereas e increased to a greater extent than in trial 1 in the s animals (p less than 0.05).
posterior colporrhaphy and perineorrhaphy: separate and distinct operations. posterior vaginal repair is often poorly understood and ineffectively performed. the goals of reconstructive surgery emphasize relief of symptoms and restoration of normal anatomic relationships and of function. a useful method to preoperatively determine posterior vaginal wall weakness is outlined along with a surgical description of important steps in surgical reconstruction.
epidermal nevus syndrome: a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly, gyral malformation, mental retardation, seizures, and facial hemihypertrophy. the epidermal nevus syndrome (ens) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems. from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations, we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies. associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12, mental retardation in 13 of 14, seizures in 16 of 17 (including 9 with infantile spasms), and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12. all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head, and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy. we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement. several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts, atrophy, porencephaly, and calcifications, which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage. given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients, we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions. the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly. while the cause of ens remains unknown, several observations suggest a somatic mutation.
role of endogenous angiotensin ii in the control of vasopressin secretion during hypovolemia and hypotension in conscious rabbits. in order to investigate the physiological role of angiotensin ii (ang ii) in the control of vasopressin (vp) secretion, the vp responses to hypotension induced by hemorrhage (20 ml/kg, n = 10) or nitroprusside infusion (1-10 micrograms/kg.min, n = 9) were studied with or without blockade of ang ii formation by the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in conscious rabbits. administration of captopril (5 mg/kg, iv) caused a small decrease in mean arterial pressure but did not enhance the hypotensive response to subsequent hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion. the renin response to both stimuli was enhanced by captopril, whereas the increase in plasma ang ii concentration was attenuated. plasma vp (pavp) concentration increased during hemorrhage (2.0 +/- 0.2-113.6 +/- 47.7 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and nitroprusside infusion (2.1 +/- 0.3-5.1 +/- 1.0 pg/ml, p less than 0.01). captopril did not change basal plasma pavp, nor did it attenuate the vp responses to hemorrhage or nitroprusside. indeed, captopril tended to enhance the vp responses to hemorrhage (2.3 +/- 0.3-147.1 +/- 65.9 pg/ml) and nitroprusside infusion (1.9 +/- 0.2-15.4 +/- 6.0 pg/ml). the relationship between log pavp and mean arterial pressure during hemorrhage and nitroprusside infusion in the presence of captopril was not different than in the absence of captopril. these results indicate that in conscious rabbits, the renin-angiotensin system does not contribute to the increase in vp secretion during hypotension induced by hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion.
lung function and pulmonary regurgitation limit exercise capacity in postoperative tetralogy of fallot. fifty-five patients with repair of tetralogy of fallot were evaluated with treadmill exercise, pulmonary function testing and rest two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography to determine the relation among cardiopulmonary function, exercise capacity and ventricular arrhythmias. the mean age at repair was 8.1 +/- 2.1 years; age at the time of study ranged from 15 to 37 years (mean follow-up time after repair 18 +/- 5 years). exercise duration was 92 +/- 17% of predicted. maximal heart rate was 94 +/- 7% of predicted. no exercise test was stopped because of an arrhythmia. thirty patients had oxygen consumption and ventilation measured during their final minute of exercise. peak oxygen consumption was 31 +/- 8 ml/kg per min (86 +/- 18% of predicted). twenty-five patients (45%) had low vital capacity at rest (less than 80% of predicted). pulmonary regurgitation was identified in 42 (75%) of the patients and judged to be moderate in 10 (18%). mild tricuspid valve regurgitation was identified in 64%. doppler estimated right ventricular outflow gradient was greater than 15 mm hg in 15% of the patients (mean gradient 24 mm hg [range 16 to 56]). age at repair, duration of follow-up and type of repair did not correlate with echocardiographic variables, ventilatory data, exercise performance or arrhythmias. moderate pulmonary regurgitation was associated with increased right ventricular diastolic area and both were inversely related to exercise duration and vital capacity. decreased breathing reserve during maximal exercise was associated with moderate pulmonary regurgitation and decreased vital capacity. the results indicate that exercise capacity in these patients is in general good; however, right ventricular volume loading and ventilatory dysfunction may produce exercise limitation.
diagnostic value of ventricular stimulation in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. to assess the response to programmed ventricular stimulation and the clinical outcome, we performed a prospective study in 103 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. the protocol used up to three extrastimuli delivered at two right ventricular sites during sinus rhythm and ventricular pacing at 100 and 150 beats/min and was repeated during infusion of 1 to 4 micrograms/min of isoproterenol. sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt) was induced in 8 of 11 patients with spontaneous sustained vt, in none of 35 patients without significant ventricular arrhythmias during holter monitoring, and in 9 of 56 patients with salvos of ventricular premature beats. isoproterenol infusion facilitated the induction of two episodes of sustained vt in patients with spontaneous sustained vt; however, in all but one of the remaining patients, induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias was not impaired. during the follow-up period there were eight sudden deaths among patients who initially had syncope, inducible sustained vt, or both and three episodes of sustained vt in patients who initially had nonsustained vt but inducible sustained vt. isoproterenol infusion can be used to safely facilitate induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. the induction of sustained vt was associated with a poor prognosis.
genotyping of macerated stillborn fetuses. it is generally impossible to collect blood or to culture tissue from a macerated stillborn fetus. accurate genotyping of such a fetus may, however, be critical for the diagnosis of genetic diseases and appropriate genetic counseling. in the east flanders prospective twin study, placental tissue of twin and triplet sets, in some of which one or both members were stillborn and macerated, has been stored at -20 degrees c. of all these fetuses, sex and zygosity could be determined accurately on the placental deoxyribonucleic acid. we tested the possibility of nongenetic changes in deoxyribonucleic acid that result from maceration or tissue degradation over time in storage on placental samples from monochorionic twins in which only one member was stillborn and macerated. the deoxyribonucleic acid variants in these monozygotic twins were identical whether or not either cotwin was macerated. thus deoxyribonucleic acid variants can be determined accurately on the placental tissue of macerated fetuses, even after prolonged freezing.
selective pulmonary vasodilation with atp-mgcl2 during pulmonary hypertension in lambs. we investigated the effects of infusions of atp-mgcl2 on the circulation in 11 spontaneously breathing newborn lambs during pulmonary hypertension induced either by the infusion of u-46619, a thromboxane a2 mimetic, or by hypoxia. during pulmonary hypertension induced by u-46619, atp-mgcl2 (0.01-1.0 mg.kg-1.min-1) caused a significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure (12.4-40.7%, p less than 0.05), while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at the highest doses (p less than 0.05). left atrial infusions of atp-mgcl2 caused systemic hypotension without decreasing pulmonary arterial pressure. during hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension, atp-mgcl2 caused a similar significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure (12.0-41.1%, p less than 0.05), while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at high doses (p less than 0.05). regression analysis showed selectivity of the vasodilating effects of atp-mgcl2 for the pulmonary circulation during pulmonary hypertension induced either by u-46619 or hypoxia. atp-mgcl2 is a potent vasodilator with a rapid metabolism that allows for selective vasodilation of the vascular bed first encountered (pulmonary or systemic). we conclude that infusions of atp-mgcl2 may be clinically useful in the treatment of children with pulmonary hypertension.
mechanism of intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap. a man with intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome is reported. once a sinus impulse was blocked in the accessory pathway, the block (ie, loss of preexcitation) was continued for a while until a pp interval reached or exceeded a critical period inducing sudden reappearance of preexcitation. this critical period was considerably longer than the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway. these findings are explained by the use of the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap in the accessory pathway. it seems that when loss of protection was maintained, the sinus impulse was blocked at the site proximal to the gap, but the impulse passing through the atrioventricular node always reached retrogradely the site distal to the gap, and therefore, the next sinus impulse was blocked again.
breast-feeding and diarrheal morbidity. this study used a unique longitudinal survey of more than 3000 mother-infant pairs observed from pregnancy through infancy. the sample is representative of infants from the cebu region of the philippines. the sequencing of breast-feeding and diarrheal morbidity events was carefully examined in a longitudinal analysis which allowed for the examination of age-specific effects of feeding patterns. because the work controlled for a wide range of environmental causes of diarrhea, the results can be generalized to other populations with some confidence. the addition to the breast-milk diet of even water, teas, and other nonnutritive liquids doubled or tripled the likelihood of diarrhea. supplementation of breast-feeding with additional nutritive foods or liquids further increased significantly the risk of diarrhea; most benefits of breast-feeding alone or in combination with nutritive foods/liquids became small during the second half of infancy. benefits of breast-feeding were slightly greater in urban environments.
effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma. in 19 months, a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases (179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage, younger than 70 years; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis, aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women). of the 660 cases, 22 hcc cases (3.3%) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination. four of those cases (18%) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter, and 11 cases (50%) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm. surgical resection was performed on 12 cases (55%). in comparison with the control group (83 hcc cases not receiving any periodic checkup), the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher. this examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma.
shoulder arthroplasty for rheumatoid arthritis. forty-two designed after natural anatomy (dana) total shoulder arthroplasties (howmedica, rutherford, new jersey) were performed in 34 rheumatoid patients. thirty shoulders in 23 patients were followed for a minimum of two years. twelve of the 30 shoulders (40%) had significant rotator cuff tears. the average rating for pain improved from 3 points preoperatively to 8 points postoperatively for the overall group, and the average rating for function improved from 3 points preoperatively to 6 points postoperatively. range of motion (rom) improved substantially in patients treated with a regular glenoid component. four patients were treated with hooded glenoid components designed to improve stability for shoulders in which the rotator cuff was deficient. in the rotator-cuff-deficient patients, pain and function improved; however, rom was unchanged. complications, including one acromial fracture and two loose glenoid components, required revision surgery.
giant cell arteritis. a case with unusual neurologic manifestations and a normal sedimentation rate. giant cell (temporal) arteritis is a serious inflammatory condition that can lead to blindness, stroke, or other adverse sequelae if not properly treated. an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate has traditionally been emphasized as a criterion for making this diagnosis. delays in diagnosis and unnecessary testing may occur when a patient presents with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a clinical history consistent with this condition. we describe a patient with giant cell arteritis who presented with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and who subsequently developed devastating central nervous system complications.
the effect of doxazosin on platelet aggregation in normotensive subjects and patients with hypertension: an in vitro study. an in vitro assay was used to investigate the effects of doxazosin on the platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine, collagen, and adenosine diphosphate. platelet-rich plasma from normotensive subjects and patients with hypertension was compared. doxazosin produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation in both groups, but significantly lower concentrations were required to inhibit platelet aggregation in plasma taken from patients with hypertension. the concentrations of doxazosin that inhibited platelet aggregation in vitro were similar to those that are used clinically to control blood pressure in patients with hypertension.
moderate hypothermia after cardiac arrest of 17 minutes in dogs. effect on cerebral and cardiac outcome. moderate hypothermia (30 degrees c) induced before circulatory arrest is known to improve neurologic outcome. we explored, for the first time in a reproducible dog outcome model, moderate hypothermia induced during reperfusion after cardiac arrest (resuscitation). in three groups of six dogs each (n = 18), normothermic ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest (no blood flow) of 17 minutes was reversed by cardiopulmonary bypass--normothermic in control group i (37.5 degrees c) and hypothermic to 3 hours in groups ii (32 degrees c) and iii (28 degrees c). defibrillation was achieved in less than or equal to 5 minutes and partial bypass was continued to 4 hours, controlled ventilation to 20 hours, and intensive care to 96 hours. all 18 dogs survived. electroencephalographic activity returned significantly earlier in groups ii and iii. mean +/- sd best neurologic deficit between 48 and 96 hours was 44 +/- 8% in group i, 38 +/- 12% in group ii, and 35 +/- 7% in group iii (differences not significant). best overall performance category 2 (good outcome) between 48 and 96 hours was achieved in none of the six dogs in group i and in four of the 12 dogs in the combined hypothermic groups ii and iii (difference not significant). mean +/- sd brain total histologic damage score was 130 +/- 22 in group i, 93 +/- 28 in group ii (p = 0.05), and 80 +/- 26 in group iii (p = 0.03). gross myocardial damage was greater in groups ii and iii than in group i--numerically higher overall and significantly higher in group iii for the right ventricle alone (p = 0.02). moderate hypothermia after prolonged cardiac arrest may or may not improve cerebral outcome slightly and can worsen myocardial damage.
snoring and sleep architecture. the purpose of this study was to examine whether snoring adversely affects sleep architecture and sleep efficiency, and thus may account for the frequent complaints of daytime tiredness and fatigue expressed by heavy snorers. we recruited eight self-confessed heavy snorers and six self-confessed nonsnorers. all subjects had full nocturnal polysomnography, including continuous monitoring of snoring, which was quantified by counting the number of snores per hour of sleep (snoring index), the number of snores per minute of snoring time (snoring frequency), maximal and mean nocturnal sound intensity (dbmax and dbmean, respectively). we found that even the self-confessed nonsnorers snored lightly, with significantly smaller frequency and index than the heavy snorers. sleep architecture was similar in both groups. distribution of snoring among the sleep stages differed for light and heavy snorers: light snorers snored uniformly throughout all sleep stages, whereas heavy snorers tended to snore more during slow-wave and rem sleep. snoring frequency and snoring index were similar during all sleep stages in light snorers, but they were higher during slow-wave sleep in heavy snorers. wakefulness time after sleep onset and sleep efficiency correlated significantly with the snoring index. we conclude that although snoring does not affect sleep architecture in general, it influences sleep efficiency and wakefulness time after sleep onset; this may have an adverse effect on daytime function of heavy snorers.
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a late-phase mediator of chronic pancreatitis in the rat. the role of platelet-activating factor (paf) as a mediator of pancreatic inflammation was examined in the rat pancreatic duct ligation model of obstructive pancreatitis. pancreatic generation of paf, as measured by bioassay (ie, platelet [3h]serotonin secretion), was determined at various times after induction of inflammation. tissue levels of paf in the normal pancreas averaged 600 +/- 49 pg/g, but paf was not detectable during the initial 24 hours of pancreatitis, a time when the inflammatory reaction would be considered acute, that is, during the period of maximal serum amylase release and the development of interstitial edema. however a substantial increase in pancreatic paf levels (12 times control levels) was observed 7 to 14 days after duct ligation during the late-phase response interval similar to the situation characteristic of chronic pancreatitis in which parenchymal atrophy, fibrosis, and pancreatic insufficiency evolve. one week after duct ligation when paf levels peaked, an evaluation was made of the effects of paf antagonists (bn52021 and web2170) on pancreatic lesions using evan's blue extravasation, pancreatic myeloperoxidase (mpo) activity, and acid phosphatase activity in peritoneal lavage fluid. bn52021 or web2170 treatment was shown to reduce pancreatic damage and inflammation significantly. long-term in vivo administration of exogenous paf (20 micrograms/kg/hr for 7 days) exhibited a reduction of [3h]thymidine uptake into and amylase release from pancreatic acini in vitro. our observations 1) that pancreatic paf levels increased significantly during the chronic phase of obstructive pancreatitis induced by duct ligation; 2) that inhibition of the action of paf, through specific receptor antagonism, caused an attenuation of pancreatic lesions; and 3) that chronic administration of paf resulted in decreased pancreatic regeneration and exocrine function are consistent with a pivotal role for paf as a late-phase inflammatory mediator in chronic pancreatitis in rats.
repair of transposition of the great arteries with intact ventricular septum and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. repair of transposition of the great arteries in patients with intact ventricular septum and fixed left ventricular outflow tract obstruction has been restricted to atrial baffle procedures, with or without attempts to relieve or bypass the left ventricular outflow obstruction. however, the suboptimal results of these procedures, coupled with excellent functional results with the arterial switch operation in patients without obstruction, has made anatomic correction the goal in repairing these anomalies. we report a technique for the anatomic correction of transposition of the great arteries, intact ventricular septum, and fixed left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. its consideration in these difficult cases is advocated.
treatment of metastatic prostate cancer of the spine. there is a wide spectrum of presentations for prostate cancer metastatic to the spine. important factors are the patient's age and general health; the extent and location of spinal involvement; the patient's neurologic status and degree of pain; the relative contribution of a blastic or lytic response; and the experience and training of the spinal surgeon, medical oncologist, and radiation oncologist. the spine is both a weight-bearing structure and a housing for the spinal cord, and failure to consider both functions may lead to unsatisfactory treatment results. treatment options include hormonal therapy, inhibitors of bone metabolism, glucocorticoid therapy, radiotherapy, halo-vest, surgical debridement, decompression and stabilization, and appropriate pain management and support. one must not lose sight of the fact that the goals are palliation and that ultimate demise is unavoidable in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and sudden deaths among young adults in wayne county. based on postmortem records at the wayne county medical examiners' office from 1982 to 1986, autopsy results indicated that the deaths of 129 persons aged 20-34 resulted from heart disease: 51 of these deaths were attributed to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd), 29 to hypertensive cardiovascular disease, 28 to cardiomyopathy, and 21 to other cardiac causes. the majority of the deaths due to ascvd occurred among men, both black and white, followed by black women, and the incidence increased with age. all of these deaths due to ascvd were sudden and accounted for all deaths due to ischemic heart disease in this age group among wayne county residents. diabetes mellitus, left ventricular hypertrophy, a history of seizures, and the recent ingestion of alcohol were all found to be associated with sudden death from ascvd in this group. obesity did not seem to be a significant factor. these data suggest that ascvd is not rare as a cause of death in young adults and some of the risk factors identified in older subjects also operate in this age group.
non-hodgkin's lymphoma of the brain after hodgkin's disease. an immunohistochemical study. non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) of the central nervous system (cns) is a rarely reported complication of hodgkin's disease (hd). two patients with nhl of the brain after hd were studied by histologic and immunohistochemical methods. both patients were in the second decade, had been treated with radiation and chemotherapy, had experienced a relapse of hd before development of nhl, had no evidence of hd at the time of diagnosis of nhl, and died within 1 year of diagnosis. both brain neoplasms were large cell immunoblastic lymphomas of b-cell lineage. patients with hd appear to be at increased risk for nhl of the cns, which may have a poor prognosis.
threshold perimetry in tilted disc syndrome. twelve consecutive patients (17 eyes) with tilted disc syndrome underwent quantified visual field examination with the g1 octopus program (interzeag ag, schlieren, switzerland). visual fields were abnormal in all cases. although field loss was more pronounced in the superotemporal quadrant (p less than .001), it also involved the other three quadrants, thus demonstrating that optic nerve hypoplasia in tilted disc syndrome is apparently not entirely sectorial. linear regression analysis showed that an increase in mean defect correlated with increase in myopic refractive error (p less than .05). however, the increase in myopic refractive error was found to be related to a decrease in corrected loss variance (p less than .05), indicating that in tilted discs with higher myopia, field loss is more homogeneous. with this series of patients, short-term fluctuation was within normal ranges in all visual fields, showing that this may be an additional clue for differential diagnosis from acquired disorders.
impact of maternal hiv infection on obstetrical and early neonatal outcome. in a case-control study of 177 hiv-seropositive and 326 seronegative women and their newborns in nairobi, kenya, maternal hiv infection at term was independently associated with travel to other african countries [odds ratio (or) 4.9, p less than 0.0001], history of a blood transfusion since 1980 (or 3.5, p = 0.01), history of more than one sexual partner in the previous 5 years (or 1.8, p = 0.02) and unmarried status (or 1.8, p = 0.02). neonates of hiv-positive and hiv-negative women differed little with respect to occurrence of congenital malformations, stillbirths, in-hospital mortality, sex, apgar score, or gestational age. however, the mean birth weight of singleton neonates of hiv-positive women was significantly lower than that of controls (3090 versus 3220 g, p = 0.005), and birth weight was less than 2500 g in 9% of cases and 3% of controls (or 3.0, p = 0.007). among neonates of hiv-seropositive women, birth weight was less than 2500 g in 17% if mothers were symptomatic and 6% if mothers were asymptomatic (or 3.4, p = 0.08).
safe performance of difficult laparoscopic cholecystectomies. laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been advocated for the treatment of uncomplicated symptomatic gallstone disease, but has not been widely advocated for the management of more complicated gallbladder disease such as acute cholecystitis, previous surgery, or common duct stones. during the last 9 months, 360 patients underwent laparoscopic removal of their gallbladder. a total of 138 had a complicated presentation, making surgery more difficult. this article discusses the management of these patients with acute cholecystitis, previous surgery, or common duct disease. using the described techniques, there were no complications or mortality. laparoscopic management of difficult gallbladder problems is safe and effective.
thyroid cancer. there have been important recent advances in our understanding of the biologic nature of thyroid cancer and in the early diagnosis of the disease. despite these advances, there is still considerable controversy over the management of thyroid cancer, including the extent of surgery, the indications for the use of iodine-131, the effectiveness of thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression, and the prediction of outcome. in this review, the current status of the diagnosis and management of the various types of thyroid cancer are carefully reviewed and extensively documented.
splinter hemorrhages as a possible clinical manifestation of cholesterol crystal embolization. we describe a patient with cholesterol crystal embolization who demonstrated splinter hemorrhages of multiple fingernails and toenails as part of her clinical presentations. our patient's clinical presentation, and review of the medical literature, raise the possibility that cholesterol crystal embolization may be associated with splinter hemorrhages.
the "military family syndrome" revisited: "by the numbers". because concerns have been raised about high levels of psychopathology in military children, the authors used standardized psychopathology rating scales to survey 213 six-to twelve-year-old children of military parents and their parents. results from children's symptom self-reports, as well as from teachers' ratings of children, indicated that children's symptom levels were at levels consistent with national norms. in contrast, parents' (especially mothers') ratings of children were significantly higher than national norms, as were parents' ratings of their own symptoms. also, parents' own symptom reports showed somewhat stronger relationships with life stressors presumably affecting the child than did the children's and teachers' reports. results suggest that parents' reports of children's symptoms may be mediated by the effects of military life stressors on the parents, but these stressors do not necessarily result in higher symptoms in the children. overall results do not support the notion that levels of psychopathology are greatly increased in children of military parents. further studies of military families should address the effects of rank and socioeconomic status, housing, and the current impact of life stressors on the parents as well as the children in order to avoid drawing erroneous conclusions about parts or all of the military community.
side effects of nalbuphine while reversing opioid-induced respiratory depression: report of four cases. nalbuphine hydrochloride, an agonist-antagonist opioid, is reported to reverse the respiratory depression of moderate doses of fentanyl (20 micrograms.kg-1) and still provide good analgesia. we report four patients having abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in which we attempted to reverse the respiratory depression of large doses of fentanyl (50-75 micrograms.kg-1) with nalbuphine (0.3 mg.kg-1, 0.1 mg.kg-1 or 0.05 mg.kg-1). nalbuphine reversed respiratory depression in all four patients and the respiratory rate increased from 10 to 23 breaths per minute, end-tidal co2 decreased from 7.0 +/- 0.3 per cent to 5.6 +/- 0.7 per cent, and peak inspiratory pressure after 0.1 seconds increased from 4 +/- 1.4 to 13 +/- 2.6 mmhg. however, hypertension, increased heart rate, and significant increase in analogue pain scores accompanied reversal of respiratory depression. agitation, nausea, vomiting, and cardiac dysrhythmias also were observed frequently. we do not recommend the use of nalbuphine to facilitate early extubation of the trachea after large doses of fentanyl for abdominal aortic surgery.
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis. we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis. the mean age of the patients was 31.1 +/- 4.3 years. at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women, stage iii in 25, and stage i in three. after reoperation, the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 +/- 30.3 months. pain symptoms returned in eight women, dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight, and pelvic pain in seven. eight of the 28 women (28.6%) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies. the corrected pregnancy rate was 35%, and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7%. a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months. conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis.
n-ras 61 oncogene mutations in hurthle cell tumors. mutations of ras oncogenes are believed to play an important role in the initiation or progression of human tumors. in thyroid tumors the incidence of ras activation by specific point mutations has been reported to range from 33% in follicular adenomas up to 60% in anaplastic carcinomas. because of our long-standing interest in hurthle cell tumors, we began a study of 70 such cases to determine the incidence of ras mutations and their clinical correlates. analysis of n-ras sequences at condon position 61, with the polymerase chain reaction method and oligonucleotide probe hybridization, showed point mutations of the normal codon caa* in eight tumor samples. one was a mutation from caa to aaa, one from caa to cta,* and six from caa to cga. these mutations would result in amino acid substitutions of lysine, leucine, or arginine for the normal glutamine at position 61 in the n-ras protein. identical ras mutations in two tumors and some of their surrounding thyroid tissue may indicate that activating ras point mutations are an early event in carcinogenesis. the incidence of mutations was 1 of 24 (4%) of the histologically benign tumors, 5 of 34 (15%) of the intermediate tumors (with vascular or capsular permeation), and 2 of 12 (17%) in the malignant group. four of these eight patients died of metastatic thyroid disease and four are alive without evidence of recurrence.
association between primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension: analysis of its pathophysiology and clinical, laboratory and hemodynamic manifestations. to determine the clinical, laboratory and hemodynamic profile in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and associated portal hypertension, 7 new cases and 71 previously reported cases were analyzed. there was no gender predilection and the average age at diagnosis was 41 years. liver cirrhosis was the most frequent cause of hypertension (82%) and a surgical portosystemic shunt was present in 29%. almost invariably, portal hypertension either preceded or was diagnosed concurrently with pulmonary hypertension, favoring the hypothesis that in portal hypertension, the pulmonary vasculature may be exposed to vasoactive substances normally metabolized or produced by the diseased liver, possibly inducing vasoconstriction or direct toxic damage to the pulmonary arteries. clinically, exertional dyspnea was the most frequent presenting symptom (81%); other symptoms, such as syncope, chest pain and fatigue, were present in less than 33%. an accentuated pulmonary component of the second heart sound (82%) and a systolic murmur (69%) were the most common physical findings. at least 75% of these patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension on electrocardiography (right ventricular hypertrophy) or roentgenography (cardiomegaly or dilated main pulmonary arteries, or both). hemodynamic findings included severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure 59 +/- 19 mm hg) with normal pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and cardiac output. treatment was basically palliative and the mean and median survival times were 15 and 6 months, respectively. in brief, on the basis of clinical presentation and laboratory features, patients with combined primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension seldom represent a diagnostic challenge. further research is needed on treatment, which remains palliative. the survival rate is poor and worse than that seen in isolated primary pulmonary hypertension.
the role of ras gene mutations in myeloproliferative disorders. mutations in the ras genes frequently are found in myeloproliferative disorders. these abnormalities have prognostic significance in the myelodysplastic syndromes, but their clinical importance in other hematopathic states remains unclear. the study of this gene in leukemic conditions is providing insights into the genetic pathways leading to leukemic progression.
the "natural history" of segmental wall motion abnormalities in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. s.p.i. research group. intraoperative segmental wall motion abnormalities (swma) detected by transesophageal echocardiography (tee) are sensitive, but not always specific, markers of myocardial ischemia. to determine their incidence, characteristics, and relation to postoperative cardiac morbidity, we continuously recorded the left ventricular short-axis view and 12-lead ecg in 156 high-risk patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery. monitoring was clinically blinded. wall motion was scored at predefined clinical, hemodynamic, and ecg events and at periodic intervals (26 +/- 11 samples per patient). we detected 44 episodes of new or worsened swma in 32 patients (20%). the severity of most episodes was limited to severe hypokinesis (24/44, 55%) followed by akinesis (16/44, 36%) and dyskinesis (4/44, 9%). the remaining 124 patients had normal wall motion or only mild hypokinesis (56/156, 36%) or chronic swma (68/156, 44%). the incidence of new swma did not differ for patients with known coronary artery disease (cad) and those with cardiac risk factors only (22% vs. 19%, p = not significant), although cad patients had a significantly greater incidence of chronic swma (62% vs. 41%, p = 0.02). the incidence of new or worsened swma was significantly greater during aortic vascular surgery (38% vs. 17%, p = 0.05). approximately 40% of all new tee changes occurred in the absence of either an apparent clinical event or a significant change in systolic blood pressure or heart rate. ten patients had new or worsened swma persisting until the end of surgery, 8 with new akinesis, only 1 developing myocardial infarction. the distribution of new or worsened swma and significant intraoperative st-t changes (n = 19) in this cohort was discordant: temporal overlap between modalities was present in only 5 patients. major cardiac complications occurred in 5 patients (3.2%), all of whom underwent peripheral vascularization. all patients with cardiac complications and new or worsened swma also had intraoperative or early postoperative st-t changes. we conclude that: 1) continuous tee recording with offline analysis in this high-risk group of patients revealed a relatively low incidence of new or worsened swma (20%), most episodes of which were characterized by severe hypokinesis (55%); 2) episodes were more common in patients undergoing aortic vascular surgery; 3) approximately 40% of episodes were unaccompanied by clinical events or significant hemodynamic changes; 4) episodes were poorly correlated with postoperative cardiac complications; and 5) the discordant relation between tee and ecg changes observed here necessitates careful monitoring of the ecg when tee is used clinically.
promoter deletion and loss of retinoblastoma gene expression in human prostate carcinoma. mutational inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene (rb) is found in all retinoblastomas and in a subset of other human neoplasms, including sarcomas of bone or soft tissue and carcinomas of lung or breast. exogenous copies of wild-type rb have been shown to suppress the tumorigenicity of several types of tumor cells with endogenous rb mutations, including a previously described human prostatic carcinoma cell line. to further support a role for rb inactivation in the genesis of prostate cancer, seven primary or metastatic prostate carcinoma specimens were examined for evidence of rb mutation. by the use of immunoblot analysis and immunostaining of histologic sections, rb-encoded protein was readily detected in tumor cells of five specimens, was equivocally detected in one specimen, and was apparently absent from tumor cells of one specimen. rb mutations in the latter case were precisely characterized as (i) a deletion of 103 nucleotides containing transcriptional start sites and (ii) loss of the second rb allele. the 103-base-pair deletion was sufficient to abolish the promoter activity of upstream dna sequences in a heterologous expression system. these results (i) demonstrate that rb can be inactivated in vivo by mutation of its promoter, (ii) confirm the existence of rb mutations in some human prostate carcinomas, and (iii) suggest the use of immunohistochemical methods to screen for rb mutations in clinical samples of common adult neoplasms.
duodenal-caval fistula. duodenal-caval fistula is a rare, often lethal disease that requires prompt diagnosis and surgical correction. a case of duodenal-caval fistula due to duodenal ulceration is presented and discussed.
recombinant human acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunit induces chronic experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. a synthetic gene encoding the 210 n-terminal residues of the alpha-subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (achr) of human skeletal muscle was cloned into an inducible expression plasmid to produce a fusion protein in high yield in escherichia coli. like native human achr, the recombinant human alpha 1-210 protein induced achr-binding, achr-modulating, and achr-blocking autoantibodies in rats when injected once intradermally as an emulsion in cfa, with bordetella pertussis vaccine as supplementary adjuvant. the minimum dose of recombinant protein required to induce biochemical signs of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (eamg) with 100% incidence was 2.2 micrograms. with 6.6 to 22 micrograms, serum levels of autoantibodies were persistent, and clinically apparent eamg lasted more than a month. clinical, electrophysiological, and biochemical indices of eamg induced by doses of 66 micrograms or more were more uniformly severe and persistent, with 33% fatality. rats receiving a control extract of e. coli containing plasmid without the alpha 1-210 codon insert, with adjuvants, did not develop autoantibodies or signs of eamg. this highly reproducible new model of eamg induced by a recombinant human autoantigen should be valuable for testing ag-specific immunotherapeutic strategies that might be applicable to treating acquired myasthenia gravis in humans.
intraosseous lipomatosis. a case report. we report a case of systemic intraosseous lipomatosis involving the proximal femur, both ends of the tibia, and the tarsal and metatarsal bones. the lesions progressed during a five-year follow-up with a pathological fracture of the tibial plateau. ct scans were characteristic and helpful in diagnosis but mr imaging added little information. intraosseous lipomatosis is a hamartomatous malformation due to hyperplasia of adipose tissue, and is fundamentally different from solitary benign intraosseous lipoma. management involves reconstruction of any pathological fracture. large progressive lesions should be treated by curettage and grafting in an attempt to prevent such fractures.
trolox protects rat hepatocytes against oxyradical damage and the ischemic rat liver from reperfusion injury. trolox, a hydrophilic analog of vitamin e, was reported to scavenge peroxyl radicals from artificial systems better than its parent compound. here we examined the possible cytoprotective effect of trolox in cultured hepatocytes and in the rat liver. in cultured rat hepatocytes, 0.5 to 16 mmol/l trolox (with optimum between 1 to 2 mmol/l) was observed to prolong the survival of cells exposed to oxyradicals generated with xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine. the protection by 1 mmol/l trolox surpassed that provided by either ascorbate, mannitol, superoxide dismutase and/or catalase--each at a level giving its maximal protection in the same system. in both a global and partial model of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in rats, infusion of trolox (7.5 to 10 mumol/kg body weight) just before reflow reduced by greater than 80% the liver necrosis sustained in untreated (no trolox) control rats. such organ salvage was apparently accompanied by approximately 50% reduction in the amount of hepatic conjugated dienes, which were quantified by a highly specific radiochemical assay. since conjugated dienes are presumed to be good "markers" of oxyradical damage, our data may have provided a semiquantitative link between free radical-induced necrosis and its chemical imprint in vivo. the data also indicated a relatively rapid and potent antioxidant-like action by trolox on rat hepatocytes and on the postischemic reperfused rat liver.
contrast echocardiographic mapping of collateralized myocardium in humans before and after coronary angioplasty conventional coronary arteriography is able to demonstrate the presence of coronary collateral vessels but cannot delineate the specific region of myocardium to which they supply blood. to test the hypothesis that contrast echocardiography can specifically identify collateralized myocardium, contrast echocardiographic perfusion "maps" were compared in patients with (n = 12) and without (n = 12) angiographic evidence of coronary collateral flow, both before and after coronary angioplasty. contrast echocardiographic images of the mid-left ventricle in the short-axis view at end-diastole were obtained after separate injections of a sonicated contrast agent into both the right and the left coronary arteries. a computer-based contouring system was used to determine the individual areas of myocardium perfused by each of the two coronary arteries and then to superimpose the images of the two perfusion beds. the resulting area of overlapping perfusion represented myocardium receiving blood flow from both coronary systems and was defined as collateralized myocardium. to normalize for heart size, overlap area was expressed as a percent of total myocardial area, which was the area between endocardium and epicardium in the short-axis view. to adjust for differences in vascular distribution, overlap area was expressed as a percent of the perfusion area of the recipient vessel. in patients with angiographic collateral flow, the recipient vessel was that vessel receiving the collateral flow. in patients without angiographic collateral flow, the right coronary artery was considered the recipient vessel. overlap area was 1.3 +/- 0.4% of total myocardial area and 6.6 +/- 1.7% of recipient vessel area in patients without angiographic evidence of collateral flow compared with 30.6 +/- 2.5% and 89.2 +/- 6.4%, respectively, in patients with angiographic collateral flow (p less than 0.001 for both). in four patients in whom angiographic collateral flow was abolished by angioplasty, overlap area decreased from 30.3 +/- 5.3% to 6.8 +/- 2.7% of total myocardial area and from 100% to 18.5 +/- 5.4% of recipient vessel area (p less than 0.05 for both). thus, contrast echocardiography is able to map the specific myocardial territory perfused by coronary collateral flow and document an immediate reduction in perfusion in this territory when collateral flow is abolished by angioplasty.
a prospective randomized evaluation of chronic peritoneal catheters. insertion site and intraperitoneal segment. the insertion site (midline or through the lateral rectus muscle) and type of chronic dialysis catheter (straight or spiral intraperitoneal segment) were evaluated in a prospective randomized trial. dialysis catheter complications and catheter survival were the endpoints of evaluation. eighty-five first catheters were evaluated. neither race, gender, renal diagnosis, type of catheter, nor insertion site was a determinant of dialysis catheter survival. overall median catheter survival was 308 days. there were 40 catheter complications (70%, n = 28) that occurred during the first 61 days following insertion. median time to the first complication occurring within the first 61 days was 3 days. late catheter removals were due to peritonitis episodes that failed to resolve. complications are frequent with peritoneal dialysis catheters, and care of the peritoneal dialysis catheters requires constant vigilance.
the predictive value of needle localization mammographically assisted biopsy of the breast. this study was done to review critically the experience at the university of california at san diego in needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast with regard to use and accuracy in identifying early carcinoma of the breast. ninety-seven patients underwent needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast between 1985 and 1987. indications for this procedure included the presence of microcalcifications or a mass shown on mammographic examination, or both, in conjunction with physical examination which did not define a discrete abnormality in the area. mammographic, demographic, pathologic, hormone receptor data and staging information were recorded and processed on the microvax ii computer (digital equipment corporation). twenty-four per cent of lesions with needle localization mammographic assisted biopsy proved to be malignant. sixteen lesions were diagnosed as an infiltrating ductal carcinoma and ten of these had an accompanying intraductal carcinoma. over-all, intraductal carcinoma was present in 16 of the 23 specimens diagnosed as malignant. at biopsy, the margins were clear in 17 of 23, and vascular invasion was present in only one patient with an infiltrating lobular carcinoma. five were tumor in situ, 12 were stage 1 and five were stage 2 (staging information was not available in one instance). hormone receptor data were available in 17 of 23 specimens. estrogen receptors were positive in 13 and progesterone receptors were positive in six. the smallest preinvasive malignant lesion was 4 millimeters, as seen on the mammogram, and the smallest free-standing invasive lesion was 8 millimeters. preinvasive lesions (intraductal) presented as microcalcifications in 80 per cent. invasive lesions presented as either a mass (n = 9) or as a mass and microcalcifications (n = 5) in 81 per cent. all five lesions presenting as both a mass and microcalcifications on mammogram proved to be malignant. multifocal lesions on mammographic examination which proved to be malignant were multifocal pathologically in only 50 per cent. needle localization mammographic biopsy is useful in detecting early carcinoma of the breast. biopsy should be done on lesions presenting on mammogram as both a mass and microcalcifications and not observed. focality of lesions on mammogram does not correlate with focality on biopsy and may be misleading as criteria for operative planning.
isotretinoin for refractory lupus erythematosus. we describe six patients with cutaneous manifestations of lupus erythematosus who were treated with isotretinoin, 1 mg/kg/day. in each case the cutaneous lesions had proved resistant to systemic corticosteroids and antimalarial therapy. treatment with isotretinoin resulted in rapid clinical improvement in all cases. recurrences were similarly rapid when the drug was discontinued. side effects were minimal and easily controlled by adjustments in dose or by the use of lubricants.
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and cough. prevalence in an outpatient medical clinic population. to determine the frequency of ace inhibitor cough in an outpatient medical clinic population, a cross-sectional epidemiologic survey using mailed questionnaires was done. patients were randomly selected from a computerized hospital pharmacy data base. the overall prevalence of cough was 19 percent in the ace inhibitor groups compared with 9 percent in the hydrochlorothiazide-treated group. the observed odds ratio for cough among ace inhibitor users was 2.3 (95 percent ci, 1.02 to 5.00). this study is the first systematic investigation of frequency and characteristics of ace inhibitor cough that includes a control group. our results suggest that cough may more frequently accompany treatment with ace inhibitors than has been previously reported. we recommend that physicians specifically inquire about cough in patients taking an ace inhibitor. recognition of this side effect may prevent unnecessary testing and treatment of patients receiving ace inhibitors.
long-term course of patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after apparent curative primary surgery for medullary thyroid carcinoma. thirty-one patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after seemingly adequate primary operation for medullary thyroid carcinoma (mtc) were followed for a mean period of 11.9 years after operation. ten patients had sporadic mtc and the remaining patients were members of families with multiple endocrine neoplasia (men)--either men 2a (15 patients) or men 2b (six patients). overall 5- and 10-year survival rates were 90% and 86%, respectively. only four patients died at the completion of the study: two of mtc and two of unrelated causes. eleven patients (35.5%) underwent surgical re-exploration after demonstration of recurrent disease clinically or radiologically. in no patient did the calcitonin level return to normal after re-exploration. the presence of more than three metastatic nodes at the time of initial operation was a statistically significant (p = 0.003) predictor for disease recurrence. factors approaching statistical significance were patients younger than age 35 (p = 0.06) and the percentage of cells in the s phase of cell division (0.07). this data supports a conservative surgical philosophy in the management of the patient with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after resection of mtc.
t cell recognition of transforming proteins encoded by mutated ras proto-oncogenes. activated ras proto-oncogenes contribute to the pathogenesis of many animal and human malignancies. ras proto-oncogenes are generally activated by point mutations within codons 12 or 61, which result in the expression of ras protein (p21) bearing characteristic single amino acid substitutions at the corresponding residues. the purpose of the current study was to determine whether the presence of single transforming amino acid substitutions can render normal ras protein immunogenic and, thus, a possible target for t cell-mediated tumor therapy. in initial experiments, c57bl/6 mice were immunized with a synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 5 through 16 of p21 containing the transforming substitution of arginine for normal glycine at residue 12. the results demonstrated that class ii mhc-restricted t cells which were specific for the peptide could be elicited, and that the peptide-induced t cells could specifically recognize the corresponding intact p21 ras protein. recognition of p21 ras protein by peptide-specific t cells implies that c57bl/6 apc can process the activated ras protein in a fashion that allows presentation of digested protein by class ii mhc molecules in a configuration similar to the configuration with synthetic peptide. evaluation of the immunogenicity of peptides containing alternative transforming amino acid substitutions of ras protein demonstrated that some, but not all, were immunogenic in individual strains of mice. therefore, although ras protein-specific t cells can be elicited by immunization with synthetic peptides, not all of the potential ras mutations commonly associated with malignancy may be recognizable by t cells from all individuals.
left ventricular rupture complicating percutaneous mitral commissurotomy: salvage using percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support. left ventricular rupture resulting in death has been reported to be a complication of percutaneous mitral commissurotomy. we report a 71-year-old man in whom a left ventricular rupture occurred during percutaneous mitral commissurotomy and resulted in hemodynamic collapse due to acute cardiac tamponade. the patient was stabilized using percutaneously instituted cardiopulmonary bypass support with subsequent repair of the left ventricle and successful mitral valve replacement. three months later this patient remains in new york heart class i.
alcohol consumption--a risk factor for hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke. purpose: the risks of alcohol consumption and its association with stroke were studied in 621 patients with stroke and 573 control subjects using case-control methods. patients and methods: patients with stroke were subdivided into 193 with subarachnoid hemorrhage, 91 with intracerebral hemorrhage, and 337 with cerebral infarction. data on recent alcohol consumption were obtained by questionnaire in patients with stroke and compared with data from an occupational screening survey in control subjects. results: relative risks, adjusted for confounding variables, exhibited j-shaped associations with increasing levels of alcohol consumption classified into four categories--abstainer, 1 to 90 g, 100 to 390 g, and greater than or equal to 400 g weekly). the individual risks were 1, 0.7, 0.5, and 1.3 for subarachnoid hemorrhage; 1.0, 0.6, 0.5., and 2.5 for intracerebral hemorrhage, and 1.0, 0.6, 0.7, and 2.4 for cerebral infarction for men and women combined. conclusions: the results suggest that low levels of alcohol consumption may have some protective effect upon the cerebral vasculature, whereas heavy consumption predisposes to both hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke.
infarct of the conus medullaris simulating a spinal cord tumor: case report. a 71-year-old woman had the sudden onset of a neurogenic bladder and a stepwise increase in paraparesis that left her unable to stand or walk. magnetic resonance imaging showed what appeared to be a tumor in the conus medullaris. after laminectomy, the lesion was localized by ultrasound examination, and a biopsy was performed. the deficits remained unchanged postoperatively. microscopic examination of the biopsy specimen showed necrosis and pathologic changes consistent with infarction of the conus medullaris. an anomalous arterial supply of the conus medullaris is the most likely cause of this unusual problem. the patient gradually regained her ability to walk, but the neurogenic bladder persists.
fresnel prisms improve visual perception in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect. we randomly assigned 39 patients with stroke and homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect to treatment with 15-diopter plastic press-on fresnel prisms (n = 18) or to serve as controls (n = 21). baseline evaluations of visual perception and activities-of-daily-living (adl) function were similar for both groups. after 4 weeks, the prism-treated group performed significantly better than controls on the following: (1) motor free visual perception test; (2) line bisection task; (3) line cancellation task; (4) harrington flocks visual field screener; and (5) tangent screen examination. there was no significant difference in barthel adl assessment at 4 weeks. thus, treatment with 15-diopter fresnel prisms improves visual perception test scores but not adl function in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect.
role of dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the evaluation of coronary reserve after coronary artery bypass grafting. the object of this study was to assess the usefulness of the dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the early evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting, when the use of an exercise stress test is precluded. we studied 39 consecutive patients (37 men and two women, mean age 57.3 years) referred to our institute for elective coronary artery bypass. five patients had single, 12 patients double, 20 patients triple vessel disease, and two had left main stem disease. nineteen left internal mammary artery grafts, 20 sequential grafts, and 39 single vein grafts were performed. all the patients were subjected to the test before (time range 1 to 3 days) and after (time range 6 to 10 days) the operation in the absence of therapy. dipyridamole was administered intravenously 0.56 mg/kg over 4 minutes (low dose); if no effect was apparent, an additional 0.28 mg/kg over 2 minutes (high dose) was given. during the test, blood pressure and a twelve-lead electrocardiogram were monitored. an arbitrary wall motion score was derived by dividing the left ventricle into six regions and grading from 0 to 3-normokinetic, hypokinetic, akinetic, and dyskinetic zones. preoperatively the test was positive in 38 patients as evidenced by wall motion abnormalities (36 patients had electrocardiographic changes) and in one patient by electrocardiographic changes and chest pain; 22 tests were positive after the low dose and 17 after the high dose. angina was present in 33 patients. mean wall motion score was 1.64 per patient in the basal condition and 4.03 per patient after the test (p less than 0.001). after coronary bypass in three patients the test was positive at the same dosage that was used preoperatively, as shown by wall motion abnormalities (in two patients by electrocardiographic changes, as well). four patients had symptoms. furthermore, at 6 months' follow-up, a treadmill stress test performed in these three patients was positive for ischemia and angina. the wall motion score was 1.25 per patient in the basal condition and 1.53 per patient after the test (no significant difference). when the preoperative wall motion score obtained after dipyridamole echocardiography was compared with the postoperative score, a statistically significant difference was seen: 4.03 per patient versus 1.53 per patient (p less than 001). in eight patients we observed an improvement of basal myocardial contractility after the operation, which indicates the reversibility of wall motion abnormalities observed before coronary bypass. in conclusion our data show that the dipyridamole-echocardiography test is a suitable method for the early assessment of bypass grafting when other methods, exercise dependent, are not indicated.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
acute aluminum toxicity after continuous intravesical alum irrigation for hemorrhagic cystitis. an encephalopathy and cardiomyopathy developed in a seventeen-year-old girl with chemotherapy-induced renal failure while receiving an intravesical aluminum infusion for hemorrhagic cystitis. premortem serum and postmortem tissue aluminum levels were markedly elevated. it is likely that her inability to excrete absorbed aluminum contributed to her death. aluminum infusions should be used with caution in patients with renal failure.
early carcinoma of the gallbladder: macroscopic features and us findings. to facilitate early detection of carcinoma of the gallbladder, a comparative study of macroscopic forms and ultrasonographic (us) features of stage i (tnm staging system) gallbladder cancer was carried out retrospectively in 71 cases of such carcinomas that were resected surgically. macroscopic forms of the lesions were classified into four types: pedunculated (eight cases), sessile (15 cases), superficial raised (25 cases), and flat (23 cases). among 71 cases, only 20 were diagnosed preoperatively by means of us. us patterns of the lesions were also classified into four types: fungating mass, lumen filling, smooth raised, and thickening of mucosa. us features corresponded well to the macroscopic forms. no flat lesion was identified preoperatively. for early detection of carcinoma of the gallbladder, it seemed essential to pay careful attention to mild mucosal change, as more than 50% of early cancers did not show apparently protruding lesions.
repetitive strain injuries. how to deal with 'the epidemic of the 1990s'. occupational trends, especially the mushrooming of computer use in the united states, have brought with them a virtual epidemic of repetitive strain injury of the upper limb. what can you as a primary care physician do to stem the tide? in this article, the authors fill you in on treatment of the most common injuries as well as remark on the ramifications for business and industry.
traumatic enucleation for posterior uveal melanoma. two features of eyes enucleated for posterior uveal melanoma that may serve as indicators for traumatic enucleation and relate to dissemination of tumor cells at the time of enucleation are myelin artifact of the optic nerve head and acute hemorrhage within the tumor. myelin artifact occurs when crushed optic nerve tissue is squeezed into the eye at the time of enucleation. intralesional hemorrhage may occur during surgery and may be correlated with fluctuations in intraocular pressure. we reviewed 519 cases of posterior uveal melanoma treated by enucleation between 1950 and 1970. without knowledge of the follow-up data, we examined histologic sections for myelin artifact, intralesional hemorrhage, subretinal hemorrhage, callender cell type, size of tumor, necrosis, and scleral or orbital invasion. neither myelin artifact nor intralesional hemorrhage were independent prognostic risk factors. these findings do not support or refute the hypothesis that excessive trauma during enucleation results in a worse prognosis.
marked cerebrospinal fluid void: indicator of successful shunt in patients with suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus. the authors blindly reviewed the charts of 20 patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus (a disease of unknown cause characterized radiologically as chronic communicating hydrocephalus and clinically by gait apraxia, dementia, and incontinence) who had undergone creation of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. the initial clinical response to surgery was graded excellent, good, fair, or poor; 5-year follow-up was available in 55% of cases. the magnetic resonance (mr) images obtained in these patients were also blindly reviewed for the magnitude of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) flow void (graded on the basis of extent rather than degree of signal loss) in the cerebral aqueduct. a significant (p less than .003) correlation existed between good or excellent response to surgery and an increased csf flow void. the presence of associated deep white matter infarction on mr images did not correlate with a poor response to surgery. on the basis of these findings, it is suggested that patients who fulfill the clinical criteria of nph and have an increased csf flow void undergo creation of a shunt.
effect of hydrocephalus on prostaglandins and thromboxane b2 in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid. the concentrations of prostaglandin f2 alpha, prostaglandin e2, 6-ketoprostaglandin f1 alpha (prostacyclin metabolite), and thromboxane b2 were assayed in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 28 patients with hydrocephalus (17 obstructive, 11 communicating). seven patients received dexamethasone or hydrocortisone on the day of sampling. no patient received nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory compounds for 48 hours before sampling. the median values did not differ significantly between the two types of hydrocephalus or from the concentrations in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients without intracranial pathology during lumbar myelography for possible lumbar disc disease. hence, there is no evidence that eicosanoids accumulate in the ventricles in hydrocephalus, and it is unlikely that they have a significant role in its symptomatology.
chronic sinusitis and the yellow nail syndrome. diagnosing syndromes that include chronic sinusitis can expedite the management of both conditions. yellow nail syndrome is usually described as the combination of yellow nails, lymphoedema and often respiratory manifestations such as chronic sinusitis, bronchiectasis and pleural effusions. the pathology responsible for the syndrome is believed to be lymphatic hypoplasia. diagnosis of yellow nail syndrome is clinical not requiring any specialized tests. in the two cases described, the respiratory tract manifestations required the most active investigation and management. the significance of this syndrome to the otolaryngologist is discussed.
familial trigeminal anesthesia. familial congenital trigeminal anesthesia as an isolated abnormality is an unusual disorder. to our knowledge, only one family has previously been reported. we report here a family with three affected members demonstrating facial anesthesia, bilateral corneal changes, and nasal septal damage secondary to self-traumatization. magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated hypoplasia of gasserian ganglia and trigeminal nerves in the affected father of two affected sons. the pathogenesis of this disorder appears to be congenital hypoplasia of the trigeminal nerves and gasserian ganglia that is inherited in a dominant fashion.
dilated cardiomyopathy complicated by a pedunculated and mobile left ventricular thrombus on ruptured false tendons. a 68-year-old man was admitted with congestive heart failure. he was treated with diuretics and digitalis; thereafter, the two-dimensional echocardiogram suggested a pedunculated and mobile left ventricular thrombus. he underwent surgical thrombectomy because of the high risk of systemic embolization. to our knowledge, this is the first case of dilated cardiomyopathy with a mobile left ventricular thrombus that was attached to ruptured false tendons.
laser recanalization versus endoscopic intubation in the palliation of malignant dysphagia. forty patients with widely disseminated or locally advanced malignant obstruction of the middle or lower third of the oesophagus underwent endoscopic treatment by either ndyag laser recanalization or intubation. groups were matched on the basis of tumour location and swallowing was graded clinically before and after treatment. technical success was achieved in 17 of 20 laser treated and 18 of 20 intubated patients. pretreatment swallowing ability, histology, tumour location and overall length were unrelated to functional outcome in both groups. however, circumferential tumour length identified endoscopically strongly influenced the quality of swallowing after laser recanalization. patients with excellent swallowing quality (n = 7) had significantly shorter circumferential tumour lengths, 3.1(1.0) cm, than those with poorer quality swallowing (n = 10), 6.3(1.6)cm, (p less than 0.001). both methods of treatment had low complication rates and there was one death in the series in the laser-treated group. laser recanalization provides a better functional result than intubation for short (less than 4 cm) circumferential tumour. intubation at a single session seems more appropriate than repeated laser therapy when tumour length exceeds 4 cm.
axillary subclavian vein thrombosis. changing patterns of etiology, diagnostic, and therapeutic modalities. fifty-two patients with axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis were treated in the last 10 years and were available for follow-up for at least 1 year. eighteen of these were treated in the first 5 years, group a, and 34 in the last 5 years, group b. the causes in both group a and group b included respectively: effort or spontaneous 28 per cent and 29 per cent, catheter insertion related 17 per cent and 47 per cent, and malignancy or systemic disease 55 per cent and 24 per cent. none of the patients in group a had noninvasive vascular testing (nit). however, 27 patients in group b had ipg/duplex imaging (nit). all 18 cases in group a and 27 cases in group b were treated conventionally (anticoagulants). seventy-three per cent of these had residual pain on exertion (venous claudication) and/or swelling. fourteen of these cases had posttreatment nit/venography. four of these showed total resolution of the thrombus and all were symptom free. ten had no resolution, and nine were symptomatic. seven cases in group b were treated with thrombolytic therapy. five of these had total resolution of thrombus and were symptom free (71%). two had no resolution with residual symptoms (29%) (statistically significant). in conclusion (1) more patients with axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis seen recently are catheter insertion related; 2) diagnosis should be initiated with duplex imaging; and (3) thrombolytic therapy significantly decreased residual symptoms and yielded better resolution than anticoagulants.
endoscopic retrograde brush cytology. a new technique. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography has been shown to be a very valuable adjunct in the diagnosis of malignancy involving the biliary and/or pancreatic ductal system. however, characteristic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography radiographic findings associated with malignant strictures are frequently not specific and cytological confirmation becomes essential for the diagnosis. unfortunately, the current overall diagnostic yield of positive cytology in such circumstances ranges from 18%-56% depending on the technique. a new brush device has been designed which is uniquely adapted to pancreaticobiliary strictures of varying anatomical configurations. this study shows results using this new cytology brush in a series of 53 patients with pancreaticobiliary malignancy. a significant improvement in the cytological yield of tumor confirmation was obtained with a diagnostic sensitivity of 70% and specificity of 100% using the new brush technique.
plasma norepinephrine in chronic schizophrenia. several lines of evidence indicate altered noradrenergic function in schizophrenia. the authors examined resting, standing, and change (standing minus resting) in plasma norepinephrine levels in 14 drug-free patients with chronic schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and in 33 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers. schizophrenic patients had significantly higher resting and standing plasma norepinephrine levels and significantly greater change. resting and standing levels were significantly related to positive and negative symptoms. there was a significant positive correlation between resting plasma and csf norepinephrine levels and a significant negative correlation between csf homovanillic acid and resting, standing, and change in plasma norepinephrine levels.
cystic dilatation of the cystic duct: a new type of biliary cyst. a case of a patient with a congenital cyst that was localized solely to the cystic duct is presented. we propose including this anomaly in the biliary cyst classifications, which currently include choledochal and intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary cysts. the diagnosis and management of this new type of cyst in addition to other types of biliary cysts are discussed.
7th nerve palsy after extradural blood patch. we describe a patient who developed a 7th cranial nerve palsy following an extradural blood patch; full recovery followed. the likely aetiology is discussed.
cardiac echinococcosis with fatal intracerebral embolism. a previously well 7 year old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness and fitting. no evidence of trauma or space occupying lesion was identified. death occurred the next day due to cerebral infarction caused by embolised fragments from a ruptured left ventricular hydatid cyst that was found at necropsy.
chinese-white differences in the distribution of occlusive cerebrovascular disease. the distribution of cerebrovascular lesions is affected by race. blacks and japanese have more intracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease, while whites have more extracranial disease. despite a high incidence of stroke in china, there are few formal studies of the distribution of vascular occlusive disease in chinese populations. we compared clinical and angiographic features of 24 white and 24 chinese patients with symptomatic occlusive cerebrovascular disease. in symptomatic vascular territories, whites had more severe (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) extracranial lesions, while chinese had more severe intracranial lesions. when we counted mild and severe lesions in a symptomatic territory, whites had more extracranial lesions while chinese had more intracranial lesions. when we combined symptomatic and asymptomatic territories, whites had more extracranial lesions, while chinese had more intracranial lesions. white patients reported more transient ischemic attacks. the distribution of lesions, however, was not explained by differences in incidence of transient ischemia, hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, or ischemic heart disease between the groups. the preponderance of intracranial vascular lesions in chinese patients is similar to that seen in blacks and japanese. racial differences in the occurrence of extracranial and intracranial lesions raise the possibility of a different underlying pathophysiology for the 2 locations.
pseudocyst of the auricle: successful treatment with intracartilaginous trichloroacetic acid and button bolsters. pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic, noninflammatory cystic swelling that typically involves the anthelix of the ear and results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity. we report a patient with a recurrent pseudocyst of the auricle and describe a new surgical technique for treating this condition by applying 50% trichloroacetic acid to the intracartilaginous cavity and utilizing external button bolsters for compressive therapy. this therapeutic approach is simple to perform in the office, results in permanent resolution of the pseudocyst, preserves the normal architecture of the external ear, and provides excellent postoperative and long-term cosmetic results.
changes in plasma free fatty acids and glycerols during prolonged exercise in trained and hypertensive persons taking propranolol and pindolol. the extent to which lipolysis is attenuated during prolonged submaximal exercise during beta blockade was determined in 12 normotensive endurance-trained and 12 hypertensive sedentary men using nonselective drugs with and without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (isa). initially, subjects performed a graded treadmill test to determine maximal oxygen uptake (vo2max). this was followed by 2-hour walks at 25 and 45% of the subject's vo2max under each of 3 treatments: pindolol (isa), propranolol (non-isa) and placebo. the distribution of medication was randomized and double blinded. blood samples taken at rest and every 30 minutes during the 2-hour walks were analyzed to determine the concentrations of free fatty acids (ffa) and glycerol. on the basis of the respective changes in ffa, glycerols and the respiratory exchange ratio, beta-adrenergic blockade did not attenuate lipolysis in the untrained hypertensive subjects when compared with the placebo administration. however, beta blockade did demonstrate a tendency to attenuate lipolysis in the trained, normotensive subjects when compared with results after placebo administration. this was particularly evident at 30 minutes of exercise, when both glycerol and ffa concentrations were not increased above resting values under both conditions of beta blockade. no differences between pindolol and propranolol were observed. therefore, a beta-blocking agent with isa properties appears to have no clear benefit with respect to lipid metabolism during low and moderate intensity exercise. furthermore, these data demonstrate that beta blockade does not inhibit exercise-induced lipolysis at low and moderate intensities of exercise as formerly believed, and is unlikely to be the cause of fatigue normally observed during work in patient populations taking beta-blocking medication.
gastric contents retained in rat stomach following mild irritant exposure contribute to adaptive cytoprotection. fluid retained in the gastric lumen immediately preceding the administration of a damaging product will dilute that product and decrease its injurious capacity. in an attempt to explain the phenomenon of adaptive cytoprotection, we studied the effect of mild irritant exposure on the volume of fluid retained in the gastric lumen. rats treated with 0.2 n-0.4 n hcl had a larger volume of gastric fluid retained as compared to animals treated with 0.4 n nacl. additionally, a mixture of gastric juice derived from rats exposed to 0.4 n hcl with 2 ml ethanol was significantly less damaging to the gastric mucosa than a similar mixture containing an equal volume of gastric juice derived from 0.4 n nacl-exposed rats. we conclude from our observations that in mild irritant-exposed stomachs, the gastric juice is a main contributor to the protection against ethanol injury.
campylobacter fetus infection of abdominal aortic aneurysm. a 61-year-old man with campylobacter fetus infection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm treated surgically is presented herein, the fifth survival case reported in the literature. fever and back pain preceded the enlargement of atherosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysm. the patient tolerated satisfactorily total excision of the aneurysm followed by axillo-femoral prosthetic bypass. antibiotic therapy consisted of intravenous infusion of fosfomycin and gentamicin and oral administration of minocycline. the organism cultured from the aneurysmal wall and intraluminal thrombi was identified as campylobacter fetus from its typical characteristics. it is concluded that this organism should be considered in all cases of infected aneurysm in elderly or debilitated patients.
stercoral perforation of the colon. stercoral perforation of the colon is rare. the 64 reported cases are reviewed to define the syndrome of stercoral perforation, and to facilitate accurate diagnosis and treatment. features of localized or generalized peritonitis were universal; however, only 11 per cent were correctly diagnosed before operation. recognition that the disease involves a segment of colon rather than only the focal point of perforation is essential to adequate surgical treatment. it is postulated that this is the reason for the higher postoperative mortality following closure of the perforation and proximal colostomy (57 per cent) or exteriorization alone (43 per cent), compared with resection of the diseased segment and exteriorization (32 per cent). resection and exteriorization is therefore the treatment of choice is most situations.
prognostic factors in acute renal failure following aortic aneurysm surgery. this study analyses the prognostic factors associated with survival in 70 patients who developed acute renal failure following surgery for an aortic aneurysm. forty-nine patients (70 per cent) had surgery for a ruptured aortic aneurysm and 21 patients (30 per cent) had an elective procedure. fifty-nine patients received haemodialysis. thirty-three patients (47 per cent) survived the episode of acute renal failure. six of these thirty-three patients died within three months of recovering from acute renal failure, giving an overall survival of 27/70 (39 per cent). a stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the following factors significantly adversely affected survival: a need for inotropic support, ventilation for more than three days and age over 65 years. a model developed using these variables provided a basis for predicting outcome.
adrenal medullary implants in the rat spinal cord reduce nociception in a chronic pain model. previous work in this laboratory has indicated that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the rat spinal cord can reduce pain sensitivity to acute noxious stimuli, particularly following stimulation by nicotine. this most likely results from the stimulated release of opioid peptides and catecholamines from the transplanted chromaffin cells. however, chronic pain models may more closely resemble human clinical pain, and the arthritic rat model has been used for screening potential therapeutic strategies. the purpose of the present study was to assess the potential for adrenal medullary tissue implanted into the spinal subarachnoid space to alleviate chronic pain. adrenal medullary tissue was implanted into adjuvant-induced arthritic rats, and changes in body weight and vocalization responses were monitored over the 10 week course of the disease. results indicate that the severe weight reduction normally associated with this inflammatory arthritis was attenuated by adrenal medullary, but not control, implants. in addition, vocalizations were reduced in animals implanted with adrenal medullary, but not control tissue following nicotine stimulation. this reduction was blocked by the opiate antagonist, naloxone, and partially attenuated by the alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine. together, these results suggest that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord may provide a local source of opioid peptides and catecholamines for the reduction of chronic pain.
enhanced expression of oncogene-encoded mrna in a rat model of colon cancer. we have studied the expression of oncogene-encoded mrnas in a rat model of colon cancer. in this model, rats are intrarectally administered several low doses of the direct-acting carcinogen, n-methyl-n-nitrosourea (mnu). tumors, predominantly adenomas, develop 5-7 months following administration of the carcinogen, and many of these progress to carcinomas. upon assaying the steady-state levels of oncogene-encoded transcripts in normal rat colon, we found that fos and n-myc are highly expressed; h-ras, k-ras, myc, myb, and neu messages are present at lower levels; and n-ras, abl, and raf mrnas are absent. when we compared transcript levels in rat tumors to those in normal colons from the same animal, we observed a 2-4 fold increase in both myc- and h-ras-encoded mrnas and a 2-7 fold increase in myb message, but no change in expression of any of the 7 other genes. to test whether this increased expression is related to tumor production or is simply a result of the more rapid cellular turnover observed in tumor tissue, the level of oncogene-encoded transcripts was assayed in colonic mucosae of rats given two treatments known to enhance cell turnover and dna synthesis in the colon. neither acute application of mnu nor a diet containing 1% cholic acid caused any change in the level of oncogene-encoded mrnas in rat colons, thus suggesting that the increased abundance of myc, myb, and h-ras messages in tumors is associated with tumor formation. the enhancement of expression of these genes in adenomas, as well as in carcinomas, further suggests that these alterations occur relatively early during the tumorigenic process.
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and quality of life. the term quality of life implies more than adverse effects that make treatment intolerable. it is not new but has only relatively recently become a parameter to be measured in patients treated for cardiovascular disease. lessons can be learned from other conditions in which the karnovsky index and the arthritis impact measurement scale have been used. several investigators have used questionnaires to assess quality of life during antihypertensive therapy. however, assessment of the effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibition on quality of life has only been done recently. the largest and best known study, of 625 white men with mild hypertension, reported that patients given captopril showed a significant improvement after 6 months in general well-being, work performance, and those skills associated with cognitive function. no such improvement was found with methyldopa and there was significant worsening in measures associated with depression, sexual dysfunction, and life satisfaction. the propranolol group, while showing improvement in cognitive functioning and social participation, manifested worsening of sexual function and physical symptoms. diuretic therapy had a greater negative impact on the quality of life of hypertensive patients than captopril, propranolol, or methyldopa alone. whether these results will be seen in other patient populations, and the pharmacological basis for these results, remains to be determined. as newer agents become available (eg, beta-blockers with ancillary properties, calcium channel blockers with allegedly more selective actions on various vascular beds), comparative studies between these agents and ace inhibitors old and new are awaited with interest.
primary papillary carcinoma of a thyroglossal duct cyst: report of a case and literature review. thyroglossal duct cysts are the most common anomaly in thyroid development. they are twice as frequent as branchial cleft abnormalities and, in children, are second only to enlarged cervical lymph nodes as the cause of neck mass. generally, duct cysts are benign, but 1 per cent of cases may be malignant. from the world literature, 114 cases of malignant thyroglossal cysts were available for review. with the addition of our own case, we discuss 115 instances of duct cysts. the different types of neoplasia described included thyroid papillary carcinoma in 81.7 per cent, mixed papillary-follicular carcinoma in 6.9 per cent, squamous cell carcinoma in 5.2 per cent, follicular and adenocarcinoma in 1.7 per cent each, and malignant struma, epidermoid carcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma in 0.9 per cent each. of the 115 cases surveyed, 35 thyroid glands were examined microscopically; of these, four (11.4 per cent) contained malignant foci. whether these are primary malignancies of the thyroglossal duct cysts or metastases is discussed.
lower extremity arterial disease in elderly subjects with systolic hypertension. the ratio of ankle-to-arm systolic blood pressure (ankle/arm index or aai) appears to be a non-invasive indicator of flow-significant atherosclerosis and may be a useful measure of burden of disease in a high risk population. the prevalence of lower extremity arterial disease (lead) was assessed by this method in the systolic hypertension in the elderly program (shep). subjects were aged 60 and older with systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mmhg upon entry to the study. an aai of 0.90 or less was considered indicative of flow-significant lead. the prevalence of lead by this method was 26.7% (50/187), while the prevalence of intermittent claudication (ic) was only 6.4% (12/187). of those with ic, 66.7% (8/12) had confirmed lead. the prevalence of lead as measured by aai increased with age in women and was associated with a history of current smoking and lower levels of high density lipoproteins. in this study population with systolic hypertension, lead, as measured by the aai, is more prevalent than previously described in elderly populations and is associated with other risk factors for atherosclerosis.
spontaneous termination of reentry after one cycle or short nonsustained runs. role of oscillations and excess dispersion of refractoriness. this study describes factors that contribute to spontaneous termination of reentry lasting one to 10 cycles after induction by a single premature stimulus. reentry was studied in vitro in rings of canine atrial tissue from around the tricuspid valve orifice. activation was recorded from a circular array of 10 extracellular bipolar electrodes equally spaced around the ring. in some experiments, transmembrane or monophasic action potential recordings were made near critical sites. termination of reentry within one cycle after induction was recorded 110 times in 11 of 35 experiments. important factors contributing to termination were 1) an obligatory reversal of the activation sequence that resulted in a long coupling interval in the critical region beyond the site of unidirectional block after the premature stimulus and 2) much longer refractory periods limited to this critical region, which facilitated unidirectional block but contributed to termination when this region was first activated with a short coupling interval at the end of the first reentrant cycle. termination of nonsustained reentry lasting longer than one cycle resulted from oscillations of conduction and refractoriness initiated by the abrupt shortening of cycle length after initiation of reentry. oscillations of conduction resulted from interval-dependent conduction of reentrant impulses that encountered partially refractory tissue. for reentry to become sustained, the oscillations after induction of reentry must dampen. thus, damped cycle length oscillations after induction may identify clinical tachycardias caused by reentry with a partially excitable gap.
treatment of reflex sympathetic dystrophy with topical capsaicin. case report. a 31-year-old woman with intractable reflex sympathetic dystrophy experienced nearly complete, though temporary, resolution of pain following 3 weeks of topical capsaicin. we propose that capsaicin may be a useful treatment for reflex sympathetic dystrophy, either by depleting substance p from primary afferent neurons that mediate allodynia, or by modulating sympathetic efferent activity.
alpha 1-antitrypsin excretion in stool in normal subjects and in patients with gastrointestinal disorders. fecal clearance of plasma alpha 1-antitrypsin is used as a measure of protein leakage into the intestinal tract. in this study, the alpha 1-antitrypsin concentration in stool and the plasma clearance of alpha 1-antitrypsin in normal subjects and in a consecutive series of patients with chronic diarrhea, malabsorption, or unexplained hypoalbuminemia was determined. the normal subjects were studied in their usual state and also when they had diarrhea secondary to ingestion of lactulose, sorbitol, sodium sulfate, or phenolphthalein. the study first concluded that induced diarrhea can cause an increase in alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance; if this is not considered in establishing normal values, there may be an overdiagnosis of excess protein leakage in patients with diarrhea. second, there is a highly significant statistical correlation (p less than 0.001) between alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and serum albumin concentration. on average, the serum albumin falls below 3.0 g/dl (30 g/l) when the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance exceeds 180 ml/day, a value that is about threefold higher than the upper limit of normal. third, three of nine patients with microscopic/collagenous colitis had elevated clearance of alpha 1-antitrypsin; by contrast, abnormal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was not found in 23 patients with idiopathic secretory diarrhea. fourth, fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin concentration is not a reliable index of abnormal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance.
clinical use of the 193-nm excimer laser in the treatment of corneal scars phototherapeutic keratectomy using a 193-nm excimer laser was performed at four centers on 33 sighted patients with corneal opacity and/or irregular astigmatism. pathologic conditions included anterior stromal and superficial scarring from postinfectious and posttraumatic causes, including inactive herpes simplex virus, anterior corneal dystrophies, recurrent erosions, granular dystrophy, and band keratopathy. most patients received peribulbar anesthesia and underwent removal of the epithelium prior to laser ablation. a majority of patients had a reduction in the amount of corneal scarring and approximately half had improved visual acuity. no intraocular reaction or changes in endothelial counts were seen, and some patients avoided the need for penetrating keratoplasty. reepithelialization usually occurred within 4 or 5 days and we noted no significant scarring secondary to use of the laser. it was difficult to eliminate preexisting irregular astigmatism despite the use of surface modulators, such as methylcellulose. a hyperopic shift secondary to corneal flattening was encountered in approximately 50% of the patients. a combination of myopic ablation, followed immediately by a secondary hyperopic steepening, may minimize this refractive change. the 193-nm excimer laser is an effective new tool in the treatment of selected patients with superficial corneal opacity from a variety of conditions.
cutaneous manifestations of postthymic t cell malignancies: description of five clinicopathologic subtypes. this study was undertaken to identify the cutaneous manifestations among different prognostic subgroups of postthymic t cell malignancies. cutaneous involvement was demonstrated in 43 of 88 cases. we recognized five clinicopathologic subtypes: type i, classical cutaneous t cell lymphoma (ctcl) or mycosis fungoides, six cases; type ii, primary large cell type ctcl, ki-1 antigen (ki-1+ or ki-1-), seven cases; type iii, primary angioinvasive t cell lymphoma, three cases; type iv, human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i+) adult t cell leukemia/lymphoma (atl), eight cases; type v, secondary cutaneous involvement by peripheral t cell lymphoma (ptl), 19 cases. primary ctcl and atl tend to involve papillary dermis with or without epidermotropism, whereas ptl and angioinvasive t cell lymphoma predominantly affect skin adnexae, vessels, and subcutis. cutaneous lesions in type v ptl are heterogeneous and may be confused with panniculitis, vasculitis, or an eczematous eruption. classic ctcl, ki-1+ lymphoma, and angioinvasive t cell lymphoma have a chronic course, whereas atl, ki-1- large cell lymphoma, and ptl are clinically aggressive.
bacterial meningitis: an update. antibiotics and improvements in supportive care have greatly reduced the mortality from bacterial meningitis. nevertheless, the incidence of neurodevelopmental sequelae remains unacceptably high. ampicillin and chloramphenicol remain the standard for antimicrobial therapy against which other agents must be compared. a number of adjunct therapies are being investigated for their possible effectiveness in reducing hearing loss and other neurologic effects of this disease. there continues to be a need for carefully performed follow-up studies to assess any possible benefit of these agents. a significant percentage of children surviving an episode of bacterial meningitis have obvious or subtle neurodevelopmental deficits. the role of the pediatric neurologist should not end with management of acute problems such as seizures but should be expanded to aid in close developmental monitoring of these high-risk children.
local-regional breast cancer recurrence following mastectomy. local-regional recurrence patterns were investigated in 1392 patients with breast cancer. primary treatment for all patients included a mastectomy. nine hundred seventeen patients had negative nodes and did not receive systemic therapy. four hundred seventy-five patients had node metastases and were randomized to receive different combinations of chemoendocrine therapy. follow-up ranged between 5 and 16 years. two hundred thirty (25.8%) node-negative patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 9.2%. two hundred forty-two (50.9%) node-positive patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 17.1%. larger tumors and more extensive node involvement were associated with more first local-regional recurrences. the relative percent of first local-regional recurrence among patients in whom cancer recurred was similar for node-negative and node-positive patients (35.4% and 33.5%, respectively). in 63.6% of patients in whom cancer recurred, first local-regional recurrence were distant. larger tumors, more extensive node involvement, and a shorter disease-free interval after mastectomy were associated with more rapid appearance of distant recurrence among these patients.
socioeconomic factors and cancer incidence among blacks and whites findings from previous studies suggest that differences in socioeconomic status may be responsible for some, if not all, of the elevated incidence of cancer among blacks as compared with whites. using incidence data from the national cancer institute's surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (seer) program, we tested this hypothesis by correlating black and white cancer incidence rates in three us metropolitan areas between 1978 and 1982 with data from the 1980 census on socioeconomic status within individual census tracts. the study analyzed data on the incidence of cancer at all sites combined (greater than 100 cancer sites) and at seven major sites separately. as in other studies, income and educational levels served as surrogates for socioeconomic status. the present study also used census-tract data on population density as a surrogate factor. each of these measures of socioeconomic status was analyzed independently. before correlation with census-tract data, age-adjusted data on cancer incidence showed statistically significant elevated risks among blacks for cancer at all sites combined and at four of the seven separate sites; whites showed an elevated risk for cancer at two sites. cancer at only one site, the colon, showed no significant association with race. when age-adjusted incidence data were correlated with socioeconomic status, the comparative black-white risks changed: whites showed an elevated risk of cancer at all sites combined and at three of the seven separate sites; blacks maintained their elevated risk at three sites. these findings suggest that the disproportionate distribution of blacks at lower socioeconomic levels accounts for much of the excess cancer burden among blacks. they also suggest that for both blacks and whites unidentified racial factors, which may be either cultural or genetic and which are not closely linked to socioeconomic status, may play a role in the incidence of some cancers.
intra-abdominal abscesses in crohn's disease. we reviewed 22 patients who had intra-abdominal abscesses secondary to crohn's disease. a total of 29 abscesses were discovered. these included superficial and deep intraperitoneal as well as pelvic and retroperitoneal abscesses. diagnosis was aided by ultrasound and computer tomographic scanning. barium studies continue to play an important role in delineating the extent of bowel involvement and fistulization. treatment varied depending on the location and size of the abscess. the need for ultimate bowel resection was determined in the majority of cases by the presence of fistulization between the abscess cavity and the bowel. the terminal ileum or neoterminal ileum were almost always involved.
plasma fatty acid profile in advanced cirrhosis: unsaturation deficit of lipid fractions. fatty acid (fa) profile of plasma total lipids, phospholipids (pl), cholesteryl esters (ce), and triglycerides (tg) were measured in 101 patients with advanced liver cirrhosis and in 44 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. plasma levels of lipidic phosphorus, esterified cholesterol, and tg also were measured, and the unsaturation index (ui) was calculated for each fraction. total plasma concentrations of saturated fa, linoleate, and polyunsaturated fa (pufa) were lower in cirrhotics than in controls. this profile was also found in plasma levels of pl- and ce-associated fa. no detectable amounts of c20:3n9 were found in cirrhotic patients. percent fa distribution of lipid fractions showed a lower percentage of linoleate and pufa and a higher relative amount of saturated and monoenoic fa in cirrhotics than in controls. as a consequence, the ui of pl and ce was diminished in liver cirrhosis. linoleate and pufa deficiency was more marked in ce than in pl, as shown by the number of patients with values below the 5th percentile of the control group, suggesting an attempt to maintain the unsaturation of pl as the most important component of cell membranes. hepatic failure, poor essential fa intake, and malnutrition are some of the possible etiologic factors for pufa deficiency in cirrhosis. their relative contribution to plasma fa abnormalities, as well as the clinical and pathophysiological consequences of pufa deficit in cirrhotic patients, requires further investigation.
reversible myopathy due to labetalol. a severe, generalized myopathy developed in 2 children treated with labetalol. an 11-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy demonstrated proximal weakness and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels during labetalol therapy. clinical improvement began immediately when labetalol administration was halted; muscle strength was normal within 2 months. muscle biopsies were consistent with rhabdomyolysis.
long-term follow-up in patients with incessant ventricular tachycardia. seventeen patients with coronary artery disease, idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or no organic heart disease who presented with incessant ventricular tachycardia (vt) were studied and followed for a mean period of 51 +/- 35 months. in these patients the incessant vt included greater than or equal to 3 episodes of sustained vt at a rate of greater than or equal to 120 beats/min and frequent episodes of nonsustained vt over a 24-hour period. no patient had electrolyte disorder, prolonged qt interval, drug-induced arrhythmia or myocardial infarction less than 2 weeks old. six patients died within 27 months of follow-up; 4 from sudden death and 2 from acute myocardial infarction. three of the 11 surviving patients had remission of their vt within 1 week after the diagnosis of incessant vt. in 3 other patients in whom antiarrhythmic drugs were discontinued during follow-up because of adverse effects of the drugs or other medical reasons, 2 were found in remission. in the remaining 5 alive patients, deliberate attempts were made to discontinue the antiarrhythmic drugs; 4 of these patients were found in remission when the drugs were discontinued. thus, 9 of these patients (53%) with incessant vt had remission over a mean follow-up of 55 +/- 34 months after discontinuation of the antiarrhythmic drugs. the probability of remission in patients surviving incessant vt warrants trials of discontinuation of antiarrhythmic drugs in these patients.
prehospital cardiac arrest: the impact of witnessed collapse and bystander cpr in a metropolitan ems system with short response times. objective: numerous studies have shown initiation of bystander cpr to significantly improve survival from prehospital cardiac arrest. however, in emergency medical services (ems) systems with very short response times, bystander cpr has not been shown to impact outcome. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of bystander cpr on survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in such a system. design: prehospital, hospital, and death certificate data from a medium-sized metropolitan area were retrospectively analyzed for adult, nontraumatic cardiac arrest during a 16-month period. results: a total of 298 patients met study criteria. one hundred ninety-five arrests (65.4%) were witnessed, and 103 (34.6%) were unwitnessed. twenty-five witnessed victims (12.8%) were discharged alive, whereas no unwitnessed victims survived (p less than .001). patients suffering a witnessed episode of ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia (vf/vt) were more likely to survive (21.9%) than were other patients (2.0%, p less than .0001). among witnessed patients, initiation of bystander cpr was associated with a significant improvement in survival (20.0%) compared with the no-bystander cpr group (9.2%, p less than .05). bystander cpr was also associated with improved outcome when witnessed patients with successful prehospital resuscitation were evaluated as a group; 18 had bystander cpr, of whom 13 (72.2%) survived compared with only 12 of 38 patients with no bystander cpr (31.6%, p less than .01). conclusion: our data revealed improved survival rates when bystander cpr was initiated on victims of witnessed cardiac arrest in an ems system with short response times.
oral contraception in disease states. oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease, ischemic heart attack, or cerebral stroke. patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation, because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding. patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery. migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications, depending on the individual situation. long-term diseases, such as crohn's disease, epilepsy, and sickle cell anemia, also require individualized consultation.
local injection treatment of tennis elbow--hydrocortisone, triamcinolone and lignocaine compared. corticosteroid injections are the mainstay of treating tennis elbow even though their effectiveness has not been well established by controlled studies. a survey of consultant rheumatologists confirmed a widespread preference for this treatment but they varied in their choice of steroid dose and preparation. we examined the value of some practices by comparing local injections of 2 ml 1% lignocaine with either 10 mg triamcinolone or 25 mg hydrocortisone made up to 2 ml with 1% lignocaine (study 1). the investigation was conducted double blind. within the first 8 weeks, pain relief was greater for triamcinolone than hydrocortisone although the differences were not statistically significant. the response to both steroid preparations was significantly better than for lignocaine up to this point but at 24 weeks, the degrees of improvement were similar for all three groups and many patients still had pain. relapse was common. in a separate but similarly designed study, triamcinolone 10 mg was compared with 20 mg of the same agent. improvements of pain were similar and followed the same time scale. post-injection worsening of pain occurred in approximately half of all steroid treated patients in both studies and this was sometimes severe and persistent. it was less frequent amongst those given lignocaine alone. skin atrophy was reported in all groups but was more frequent amongst those given triamcinolone in study 1. in conclusion, more rapid relief of symptoms was achieved with 10 mg triamcinolone than with 25 mg hydrocortisone or lignocaine alone and there was less needed to repeat injections. results obtained with 20 mg triamcinolone were similar to those of the smaller dose.
a randomized double-blind crossover comparison of four rate-responsive pacing modes. the aim of this study was to compare, both subjectively and objectively, four modern rate-responsive pacing modes in a double-blind crossover design. twenty-two patients, aged 18 to 81 years, had an activity-sensing dual chamber universal rate-responsive (dddr) pacemaker implanted for treatment of high grade atrioventricular block and chronotropic incompetence. they were randomly programmed to vvir (ventricular demand rate-responsive), ddir (dual chamber demand rate-responsive), ddd (dual chamber universal) or dddr (dual chamber universal rate-responsive) mode and assessed after 4 weeks of out-of-hospital activity. five patients, all with vvir pacing, requested early reprogramming. the dddr mode was preferred by 59% of patients; the vvir mode was the least acceptable mode in 73%. perceived "general well-being," exercise capacity, functional status and symptoms were significantly worse in the vvir than in dual rate-responsive modes. exercise treadmill time was longer in dddr mode (p less than 0.01), but similar in all other modes. during standardized daily activities, heart rate in vvir and ddir modes underresponded to mental stress. all rate-augmented modes overresponded to staircase descent, whereas the ddd mode significantly underresponded to staircase ascent. echocardiography revealed no difference in chamber dimensions, left ventricular fractional shortening or pulmonary artery pressure in any mode. cardiac output was greater at rest in the dual modes than in the vvir mode (p = 0.006) but was similar at 120 beats/min. beat to beat variability of cardiac output was greatest in vvir mode (p less than 0.0001), with ddir showing greater variability than ddd or dddr modes (p less than 0.05). mitral regurgitation estimated by doppler color flow imaging was similar in all modes, but tricuspid regurgitation was significantly greater in vvir than in dual modes (p less than 0.03). subjects who preferred the dddr mode and those who found the vvir mode least acceptable had significantly greater increases in stroke volume when paced in the ddd mode than in the ventricular-inhibited (vvi) mode at rest (22%) when compared with subjects who preferred other modes (2%, p = 0.03). no other objective variable was predictive of subjective benefit from any rate-responsive pacing mode. thus, dual sensor rate-responsive pacing (dddr) is superior objectively and subjectively to single sensor (vvir, ddir and ddd) pacing and subjective benefit from dual chamber rate-augmented pacing is predictable echocardiographically.
a comparison of three formulations of tac (tetracaine, adrenalin, cocaine) for anesthesia of minor lacerations in children. a randomized, prospective, double-blind study comparing three formulations of the topical anesthetic solution tac for laceration repair was undertaken in 250 children. the children's wounds were anesthetized with either tac i (original formulation--0.5% tetracaine, 1:2000 adrenalin, 11.8% cocaine), tac ii (1.0% tetracaine, 1:4000 adrenalin, 7.0% cocaine), or tac iii (1.0% tetracaine, 1:4000 adrenalin, 4.0% cocaine) prior to repair. the solutions were compared with respect to efficacy, acceptability, wound complications, and side effects. we found comparable efficacy of the three formulations, with similar efficacy to 1% lidocaine infiltration for facial and scalp wounds. anesthesia for extremity wounds was adequate in only 39.9% of cases, regardless of tac strength. wound complications and side effects were within expected and acceptable limits. our findings support use of tac for face and scalp lacerations and a change to a less concentrated tac preparation, such as our "tac iii," which is presumably safer for widespread use.
secondary hypogonadism in hemochromatosis. hemochromatosis is a rare disorder of iron storage. this report illustrates a case of hypogonadotropic-hypogonadism in a female with biopsy-proven hemochromatosis. dynamic pituitary and gonadal testing revealed subnormal gonadotropin responses to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (gnrh) but normal ovarian reserve, as shown by normal follicular stimulation with hmg. thus, abnormalities of ovulation and menstruation in patients with hemochromatosis are most likely because of inadequate pituitary responsiveness to gnrh.
schnitzler's syndrome: a broader clinical spectrum. schnitzler's syndrome is characterized by chronic urticaria, recurrent fever, bone pain, and lymphadenopathy in conjunction with a serum igm m component in a concentration that is usually less than 10,000 mg/l. complement activation and cryoprecipitation do not appear to be involved. we report two additional patients who share many of the characteristics of this entity. these patients differ from patients previously reported because of the markedly elevated igm m-component concentration in one patient and the severity of anemia in the second patient. an increased frequency of igg autoantibodies to interleukin-1-alpha has been reported by other investigators; it has been suggested that an antibody-mediated prolongation of the half-life of interleukin-1-alpha might account for some of the symptoms and signs of this disorder. however, neither the mediators involved in the induction of nonpruritic urticaria nor the role of the igm m component has been established.
the use of a biodegradable mesh to prevent radiation-associated small-bowel injury. radiation-associated small bowel injury occurs in up to 50% of patients receiving postoperative radiotherapy following pelvic cancer surgery. we describe our experience using a biodegradable mesh that allows the small bowel to be supported above the pelvic inlet and is totally absorbed following radiation therapy. between 1985 and 1989, 45 procedures were performed in patients with carcinoma of the rectum (anterior resection in 15 patients, abdominoperineal resection in 23 patients, pelvic exenteration in six patients, and proctocolectomy in one patient). in 30 patients a polyglycolic acid (dexon) mesh was used, and in 15 patients a polyglactin 910 (vicryl) mesh was used. forty-four patients received postoperative radiotherapy. the mean (+/- sem) dose was 56.8 +/- 18.4 gy. there were no immediate complications related to the mesh. follow-up ranged from 12 to 53 months (median follow-up, 34 months). with the exception of two patients who had a polyglactin 910 mesh and who developed bowel obstruction due to adhesions under the anterior abdominal wall, there has been no documented incidence of clinical radiation-associated small bowel injury. the use of the absorbable mesh may permit us to use higher doses of postoperative radiotherapy without the associated hazard of radiation-associated small bowel injury.
colorectal cancer: differences between community and geographically distant patients seen at an urban medical center. many studies in clinical oncology rely on hospital-derived patients. hospitals vary in the proportions of patients from the local catchment area vs. those from more distant places, of whom a larger proportion are presumably referrals. to study the differences between these two types of patients, we analyzed 1,245 colorectal cancer patients seen at a large urban medical center over a seven-year period. three hundred ninety-eight patients were from the local community (32 percent), 489 were from the extended community (39.3 percent), and 358 from more distant communities (28.8 percent). the patients from the local community tended to be older and from minority ethnic groups. in addition, the local community patients were more likely to have advanced disease at the time of presentation. the grade of the tumor and its site distribution within the large bowel were similar for the three groups. after adjusting for age, sex, race, and stage of disease, the survival was somewhat better for the distant community patients as compared with the local and extended communities (p less than 0.02). overall, in our patient population, the distant patients tended to have more favorable socioeconomic factors and less advanced disease, and these differences may account, in large part, for a better prognosis for these patients. particularly in large cooperative trials, studies may need to take into account the respective proportions of local community and geographically distant patients in analyzing and generalizing treatment outcomes.
evidence of an antiplatelet aggregation action of doxazosin in patients with hypertension: an ex vivo study. eighteen patients with a mean age of 54.7 years were included in the study. all patients had a diagnosis of mild or moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure of 96 to 114 mm hg). the study design was single blind and in two phases: phase i, placebo (4 weeks), and phase ii, the active treatment (8 weeks) with increasing doses, if needed, of doxazosin every 2 weeks (1, 2, 4, and 8 mg/day). results show that doxazosin has an antihypertensive effect that is dose dependent. systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures were decreased significantly, and no effect on heart rate was observed. doxazosin significantly inhibited the platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine, adenosine diphosphate, and collagen in a dose-dependent manner. in addition, treatment with doxazosin lowered total serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels, without changing other standard biochemical parameters. this indicates that doxazosin could offer a distinct therapeutic advantage in the modulation of atherogenic and thromboembolic factors associated with coronary heart disease.
the european experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. a retrospective survey of 7 european centers involving 20 surgeons who undertook 1,236 laparoscopic cholecystectomies was performed. the procedure was completed in 1,191 patients. conversion to open cholecystectomy was necessary in 45 patients (3.6%) either because of technical difficulty (n = 33), the onset of complications (n = 11), or instrument failure (n = 1). there were no deaths reported, and the total postoperative complication rate was 20 of 1,203 (1.6%), with 9 being serious complications requiring laparotomy. the total incidence of bile duct damage was 4 of 1,203. the median hospital stay was 3 days (range: 1 to 27 days) and the median time to return to full activity after discharge was 11 days (range: 7 to 42 days).
delayed detection of coarctation in infancy: implications for timing of newborn follow-up. during a recent 5-year period, 74 patients younger than 6 months of age were diagnosed with coarctation of the aorta. coarctation was correctly diagnosed in only 22% of patients prior to referral despite readily apparent femoral pulse abnormalities in 86%. infants whose symptoms were detected between 5 and 14 days of age were significantly more ill than infants outside this age range and had a high mortality rate (25%). the number of associated cardiac defects was not related to the severity of clinical illness in this group, suggesting that closure of the ductus arteriosus is the primary determinate of disease severity. observations in two patients suggested that a detectable pulse discrepancy occurs between 3 and 5 days postnatally. upper extremity hypertension was found commonly in infants after 5 days of age despite the presence of congestive heart failure. earlier detection of coarctation in the newborn requires a diligent cardiovascular and peripheral pulse examination between 3 and 7 days of life, upper extremity and lower extremity blood pressure measurement, and a high index of suspicion.
lung lobe torsion following lobectomy. three cases of postoperative pulmonary lobe torsion were reported. two of three showed hemorrhagic infarctions, and as a result underwent rethoracotomies and removal of the affected lobes. from these experiences, we consider that computed tomography (ct) and bronchofiberscopic examinations are useful for the diagnosis of advanced torsion.
insulin-like growth factor-ii: possible local growth factor in pheochromocytoma. pheochromocytomas, neural crest tumors, express an abundance of insulin-like growth factor-ii (igf-ii). to assess further the potential for igf-ii to play an autocrine role for these tumors, we measured 1) igf-ii content by rra in 7 pheochromocytomas and peripheral blood in these patients, 2) igf-ii receptors by western analysis, and 3) characterized the tumor binding proteins by ligand blot studies. igf-ii levels in the tumors varied from 2.8-41 micrograms/g. chromatography revealed that 60% of the peptide eluted as a large mol wt form of igf-ii (8.7-10 kda); the remainder coeluted with mature peptide (7.5 kda). this was in contrast to igf-ii levels in normal adrenal tissue (0.225 +/- 0.005 micrograms/g) or another neural crest-derived tumor, medullary carcinoma of the thyroid (0.63 +/- 0.02 micrograms/g). serum igf-ii levels in the 7 patients with pheochromocytoma (720 +/- 71 ng/ml) were similar to those in 35 normal controls (762 +/- 69 ng/ml). radiolabeled igf-ii (9 +/- 1%) and igf-i (20 +/- 2%) bound specifically to pheochromocytoma membranes. western analysis of these membranes using a specific antiserum directed against the type ii receptor demonstrated a band at 210 kda. affinity cross-linking studies with [125i]igf-i demonstrated a specific band at 140 kda. ligand blot analysis was performed on the void volume pools from the sephadex g-75 column and demonstrated bands at about 30 and 25 kda. in conclusion, these data 1) confirm that pheochromocytomas have increased levels of igf-ii; 2) demonstrate that despite high igf-ii concentrations in the tumors, peripheral levels are not elevated, suggesting that very little tumoral igf-ii is released into the circulation, unlike catecholamines; 3) demonstrate the presence of igf-ii and igf-i receptors; 4) describe binding protein species similar to those present in other tissues. thus, the presence of high levels of igf-ii and both type i and type ii receptors suggests that igf ii may act through both receptors to alter tumor growth.
congenital biliary tract disease. jaundice in the pediatric patient requires prompt and directed evaluation. this dictum is highlighted in infants with biliary atresia, in whom the progressive sclerosing process results in complete obliteration of patent but microscopic hilar biliary structures by 4 months of age. kasai's operation, if done before that time, will re-establish bile drainage in 90% of infants. one fourth to one third of patients achieve long-term jaundice-free survival. complications of cholangitis, portal hypertension, and fat malabsorption are experienced by many patients. in children with early or late operative failure, liver replacement now offers legitimate hope for extended survival. choledochal cyst is a conglomerate of pancreaticobiliary anomalies consisting of a choledochal cyst, a common-channel-type pancreaticobiliary junction, intrahepatic cystic disease, and partial obstruction of the distal common bile duct. many patients have one or more of these malformations. it is now widely accepted that the preferred treatment of choledochal cyst is total excision of the diseased biliary duct with reconstruction by roux-en-y choledochojejunostomy. "internal" excision avoids injury to other structures in the hepatoduodenal ligament, particularly if pericystic inflammation is present. congenital perforation of the common bile duct responds in most cases to simple peritoneal drainage of the perforation. retention of the tube cholecystostomy is useful for subsequent cholangiographic follow-up. tube cholecystostomy may also be useful for irrigation of the biliary tract in infants with inspissated bile syndrome.
familial incidence of paget's disease and secondary osteogenic sarcoma. a report of three cases from a single family. this report describes a family of three siblings with a long history of polyostotic paget's disease. because of the severe osseous involvement with paget's disease, all three patients had problems that required orthopedic surgery. subsequent to these surgeries, two patients developed osteogenic sarcoma at sites unrelated to their past procedures, one in the sacrum and one in the calvarium. both patients died shortly after their diagnosis because of the aggressive spread of the tumor. although the etiology of paget's disease and its complication of osteogenic sarcoma still remain to be clarified, this and other case reports suggest a possible environmental or hereditary contribution to developing osteogenic sarcoma in paget's disease. patients with a familial clustering of polyostotic paget's disease may benefit from more thorough screening tests to detect malignant transformation.
cocaine babies: the scourge of the '90s. six cases of cocaine-related deaths of infants have covered the spectrum of potentially devastating effects. they include an intrauterine death of a 35-week-old fetus following acute maternal cocaine abuse; anoxic encephalopathy at birth with 3 months' vegetative survival from a similar episode; traumatic compression asphyxia in a 4-month-old; infectious cardiomyopathy with heart failure in a twin at age 21 months following maternal cocaine abuse at birth; malnutrition and dehydration in a 7-week-old during continuing cocaine abuse by the parents; and a teenage sibling's cocaine lacing of a baby milk bottle ingested by his 6-week-old brother. all the cases had positive toxicological screening for cocaine or metabolites or both in the mother at delivery or in the infant at birth, or both. there were no instances of sudden infant death syndrome (sids, or "crib death"). pathologic and toxicologic, as well as birth, developmental, and social data are presented. an integrated medical, public health, law enforcement, and educational policy to prevent or at least ameliorate these tragic cases, now approaching epidemic proportions, has yet to be developed. a careful obstetrical history and examination of the mother, indication on the birth certificate of maternal drug abuse, and notification of health authorities (by birth certificate checking, among other ways) may send an early warning message to providers for intercession. active ingestion/injection and passive inhalation by older children and teenagers require more intensive monitoring and aggressive interaction by pediatricians, social workers, school authorities, and employers.
monozygotic twins discordant for partial trisomy 1. a 25-year-old primigravida delivered monozygotic twins discordant for multiple anomalies and partial trisomy 1 mosaicism. the phenotype of partial trisomy 1 includes craniofacial, central nervous system, and ocular anomalies. the most likely explanation for these findings is that the translocation occurred after twinning occurred. this observation emphasizes that monozygotic twins are not necessarily genetically identical. they are identical at conception, but subsequent mutation and rearrangement of the genome may cause substantial phenotypic differences.
identification of acute myocardial infarction patients suitable for early hospital discharge after aggressive interventional therapy. results from the thrombolysis and angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction registry. background. very early (day 4) hospital discharge has recently been proposed for selected patients with acute myocardial infarction (mi). the purpose of this study was to determine the most useful factors for identifying acute mi patients treated with aggressive interventional therapy who could be safely discharged on day 4. methods and results. we studied 708 patients enrolled in the thrombolysis and angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction trials i-iii. patients dying in the first 3 days and those with early (days 1-3) emergency coronary artery bypass graft surgery (cabg), late elective cabg (greater than or equal to day 4), or urgent/emergency cabg resulting from a late elective coronary angioplasty were excluded. the remaining 580 patients were randomly divided into a training sample (group 1) that was used to build a logistic regression model for predicting the absence of a late major complication and a test sample (group 2) that was used to validate this model. for this study, patients were considered appropriate for day 4 hospital discharge if they did not experience any of the following for 30 days after mi: death, reinfarction, cardiogenic shock, pulmonary edema, sustained hypotension, sustained ventricular tachycardia, high-grade atrioventricular block, acute ventricular septal defect, and recurrent ischemia necessitating urgent cabg. in group 1, four variables were independent predictors of freedom from late major complications: absence of early sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, absence of early sustained hypotension or cardiogenic shock, fewer coronary arteries with significant (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis, and a higher left ventricular ejection fraction. in group 2, 23% of patients had a logistic model prediction of a 3% or less chance of a late complication. these patients had no deaths or reinfarctions by day 30 and a 3% late major complication rate. conclusions. the results of early cardiac catheterization and the absence of selected early (days 1-3) major complications do allow identification of a low risk subgroup of acute mi patients that may be suitable for very early discharge.
long-term cardiopulmonary bypass by peripheral cannulation in a model of total heart failure. the decompression of the left heart through a percutaneous helical spring positioned within the lumen of the tricuspid and pulmonary artery valves. we performed long-term closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass in an animal model of total heart failure (induced ventricular fibrillation). the extracorporeal system included a venous reservoir, a roller pump, a membrane lung, and a blood pulsator system. we cannulated the right external jugular vein for venous drainage and the right subclavian artery for arterial return. to decompress the left heart we passed by percutaneous cannulation a special helical spring mounted on a swan-ganz catheter (baxter edwards divisions, irvine, calif.) and positioned it to rest within the pulmonary artery and tricuspid valves, which rendered them partly incompetent. after induced ventricular fibrillation, blood flow was raised to keep the central venous pressure at baseline values. the lungs were ventilated with 5% carbon dioxide in room air. during bypass, mean pulmonary artery pressure was 10.0 +/- 1.7 mm hg, mean wedge pressure 11.9 +/- 1.8 mm hg, and mean blood pressure 95.2 +/- 5.6 mm hg. after 2 days (four animals) and 3 days (two animals) the hearts were defibrillated. there was immediate ejection from both sides of the heart. all sheep were weaned from bypass within 29 +/- 11 minutes and their lungs were ventilated with room air within 42 +/- 34 minutes. at autopsy hearts and lungs grossly appeared normal. we conclude that the percutaneous helical spring resting within right heart valves provided excellent decompression throughout the study, with full recovery of heart and lung function on defibrillation.
catecholamine regulation of adipocyte lipolysis after surgery. the effect of surgical trauma on the regulation of lipolysis was studied in isolated fat cells obtained before and 24 hours after elective cholecystectomy in 12 patients who were not obese and who were healthy otherwise. surgery was accompanied by a twofold increase of the basal rate of lipolysis and by a significant 50% elevation of the lipolytic effect of catecholamines. the actions of various agents that selectively stimulate lipolysis at different early or late steps in the cyclic adenosine monophosphate system beyond the adrenoreceptors were also increased about 50% after surgery (p less than 0.01). the properties of the beta-adrenoceptors were not altered by surgery, as assessed by radioligand binding and isoprenaline sensitivity. the antilipolytic properties of catecholamines (mediated by alpha 2-adrenoreceptors) were not influenced by cholecystectomy. lipolysis was not altered in four subjects who had no surgery and who served as control subjects 24 hours after being given the same type of postoperative nutrition as patients who underwent cholecystectomy. we concluded that moderate surgical trauma is associated with increased lipolytic activity of fat cells. this is secondary to an enhanced ability of catecholamines to stimulate lipolysis because of a modification at the most distal steps in the cyclic adenosine monophosphate system, which may involve the protein kinase/hormone sensitive lipase complex.
surgery for acute and chronic cholecystitis. cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy remain appropriate and effective therapy for acute and chronic cholecystitis. cholecystectomy is the gold standard against which all alternative methods of treatment of inflammatory biliary stone disease should be judged. the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and surgical treatment of acute and chronic cholecystitis have been described. techniques of cholecystostomy, cholecystectomy, and intraoperative cholangiography used by the author have been given. our results and those generally described in the literature indicate that the overall mortality rate for cholecystectomy, in all age groups, is approximately 0.5%. this rate increases slightly in patients with acute cholecystitis and in those over the age of 65 years. cholecystectomy remains the most effective and the definitive treatment for acute and chronic cholecystitis.
a method for performing full-thickness, orthotopic, penetrating keratoplasty in the mouse. in an attempt to overcome the lack of well characterized, inbred, and congenic strains, as well as a paucity of immunological reagents, in rabbit and rat models, we have developed a procedure for performing full-thickness, penetrating keratoplasty in the mouse. one hundred percent of isografts (balb/c onto balb/c) were successful, while 83.3% of allografts (c3h onto balb/c) failed. the use of a mouse model to study corneal graft failure will allow a critical evaluation of the role of a variety of immunological mediators in causing graft failure.
effect of antiarrhythmic therapy on mortality in survivors of myocardial infarction with asymptomatic complex ventricular arrhythmias: basel antiarrhythmic study of infarct survival (basis) in view of the high risk of sudden cardiac death and the prognostic importance of complex ventricular ectopic activity, the effects of prophylactic antiarrhythmic treatment were investigated prospectively in patients with persisting asymptomatic complex arrhythmias after myocardial infarction. end points were total mortality and arrhythmic events (sudden death, sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation). of 1,220 consecutively screened survivors of myocardial infarction, 312 had lown class 3 or 4b arrhythmia on 24 h electrocardiographic recordings before hospital discharge and consented to the study. they were randomized to individualized antiarrhythmic treatment (group 1, n = 100), treatment with low dose amiodarone, 200 mg/day (group 2, n = 98) or no antiarrhythmic therapy (group 3 [control group], n = 114). during the 1 year follow-up period, 10 patients in group 1 died, as did 5 in group 2 and 15 in group 3. on the basis of an intention to treat analysis, the probability of survival of patients given amiodarone was significantly greater than that of control patients (p less than 0.05). in addition, arrhythmic events were significantly reduced by amiodarone (p less than 0.01). these effects were less marked and not significant for individually treated patients (group 1). these findings suggest that low dose amiodarone decreases mortality in the 1st year after myocardial infarction in patients at high risk of sudden death.
prostatic urethra dilatation with the gianturco self-expanding metallic stent: a feasibility study in cadaver specimens and dogs. in an effort to develop a transcatheter technique for dilatation of the prostatic urethra without the use of balloons, the feasibility of using gianturco self-expanding stents was evaluated. initially, eight human cadaveric prostatic urethras were stented to evaluate the ability of the stent to dilate the lumen. in all cases, the device attained its unconstrained diameter immediately on placement. subsequently, stents were placed in the prostatic urethra of 12 dogs and followed up for 1 month (four dogs), 3 months (one dog), and 6 months (seven dogs). five bare straight-end prostheses, one nylon-covered straight-end device, and six flared-end stents were used. three of the bare straight-end stents migrated during the follow-up, whereas the nylon-covered and flared-end stents did not. stent diameters greater than 1.3 times the urethral diameter caused moderate to marked edema and inflammation. after 6 months, white deposits were found on the solder points, presumably from electrolysis. our experience suggests that placement of gianturco self-expanding stents may be a useful method of dilating and maintaining the luminal diameter of the prostatic urethra, although care must be taken to select the proper stent size.
small non-cleaved-cell lymphoma (undifferentiated lymphoma, burkitt's type) in american adults: results with treatment designed for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. purpose: small non-cleaved-cell lymphoma (sncl) "burkitt's type," a rapidly growing lymphoma, has been rare among adults in the united states, but has greatly increased in incidence with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome epidemic. this report details the results of treatment of adult sncl with a series of protocols originally designed for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). patients and methods: between july 1973 and may 1987, 29 adults with newly diagnosed sncl were treated at memorial hospital with intensive chemotherapy originally designed for all: the cyclophosphamide l-2, l-10, l-17, and l-20 protocols. nine patients had positive serologies for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. one patient with all measurable disease resected was not evaluable for response. results: sixteen of 28 evaluable patients (57%) achieved a complete remission with treatment. with follow-up as long as 153 months (median, 47 months), 50% of all patients and 59% of patients with negative or unknown hiv serologies have survived and are probably cured. patients with an initial serum lactic acid dehydrogenase (ldh) level of greater than 500 u/l had a significantly shortened survival as compared with those with a lower serum ldh. other pretreatment patient characteristics associated with a shortened survival of borderline statistical significance were high national cancer institute stage (c, d) and bone marrow involvement. these results are similar to those for all and lymphoblastic lymphoma and are comparable to those for american sncl in the literature. conclusions: approximately one half of adults with sncl are curable with intensive chemotherapy. more intensive chemotherapy with hematopoietic growth factor and/or autologous bone marrow or peripheral stem cell support may increase curability.
maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded adolescents and adults: reliability study. few data are available regarding maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded individuals. no data are available on the reliability of maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded individuals. the purpose of this study was to determine the reliability of graded exercise testing of mentally retarded adolescents and adults. the testing was conducted at two geographically different centers. at center a, 14 mentally retarded adolescents (11 boys, three girls) with down syndrome, who were educable or trainable, were recruited from a nonresidential school. the subjects completed two balke-ware treadmill protocols until exhaustion. the treadmill time and heart rate (hr) were recorded. the time between tests was approximately one week. at center b, 21 mentally retarded adults (14 women, seven men means iq = 56) were recruited from local workshops and group homes. these subjects completed a treadmill walking protocol, with metabolic measurements, until exhaustion. the time between tests varied from one to four months. at center a, the subjects achieved a mean treadmill time of 8.72min on test one and 8.84min on test two (means hr = 174 and 175bpm, respectively). the reliability coefficient between the two tests was .94. at center b, the subjects achieved a mean v0(2)max of 27.2ml.kg-1.min-1 on test one and 26.9ml.kg-1.min-1 on test two. the reliability coefficient was .93. these data show that maximal exercise testing is reliable for these populations of mentally retarded individuals, exhibiting similar values to their nonretarded peers.
technetium-99m sestamibi myocardial imaging: same-day rest-stress studies and dipyridamole. unlike thallium-201, technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi does not redistribute in the myocardium after injection. thus, 2 separate injections, 1 at rest and the other at stress (or after dipyridamole), are required to differentiate ischemia from scar. from a physical viewpoint, a 24-hour interval between the 2 injections is preferable for detection of coronary artery disease (cad) with tc-99m sestamibi imaging. however, same-day studies are more convenient in clinical practice. results of studies using different tc-99m sestamibi injection protocols are presented with emphasis on the advantages of a rest-stress injection sequence with a low dose at rest (7 mci) followed 2 hours later by a higher dose at stress (25 mci). a prospective study was conducted in a patient population with proven cad using same-day studies to compare a rest-stress (7 and 25 mci, respectively) to a stress-rest (7 and 25 mci) tc-99m sestamibi injection sequence. there was an agreement in 87.3% of the analyzed segments between the 2 protocols. however, the largest discordance for type of defect applied to 7.4% of the segments judged ischemic in the rest-stress protocol, which were called scars on stress-rest. this study showed that a rest-stress sequence is preferable when using a same-day protocol with a short time interval (less than 2 hours) between the 2 tc-99m sestamibi injections because the rest image performed initially represents a "true" rest study, which is not necessarily the case with the stress-rest sequence. preliminary studies were performed to evaluate dipyridamole with tc-99m sestamibi imaging in normal subjects and in patients with cad. these studies showed that treadmill and dipyridamole tc-99m sestamibi imaging are comparable and the results are similar to those obtained with thallium-201.
special considerations for research with pharmacologic agents. as physical medicine and rehabilitation becomes more and more complicated, the medical rehabilitation research teams are often bewildered by the sweeping changes occurring in the application of therapeutic drugs for rehabilitation. society, through the instrument of governmental regulations, dictates that all new treatments must be efficacious before "release.".
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer. the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years (mean, 41 years) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 (il-2) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy. death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients, sepsis in four patients, acute myocardial infarction in one patient, and myocarditis in one patient. transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing. noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients: the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one. although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon (1.5% in 652 consecutive patients), the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists, and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted.
transforming growth factor beta stimulates mammary adenocarcinoma cell invasion and metastatic potential. the experimental metastatic potential of 13762nf mammary adenocarcinoma clone mtln3 was tested after pretreatment in serum-free medium containing transforming growth factor (tgf) beta 1 at 0-5000 pg/ml. lung colonies were measured 2 weeks after inoculation in syngeneic f344 rats, and a bell-shaped dose-response curve with 2- to 3-fold increase in number of surface lung metastases was seen. maximal enhancement occurred at the 50 pg/ml dose level. the effect was specific because addition of neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody blocked the stimulatory activity at all levels of tgf-beta 1 pretreatment, but when antibody was given alone, neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody had no effect on untreated cells. increased metastatic potential appears to be from an increased propensity of cells to extravasate as tested in the membrane invasion culture system. mtln3 cells penetrated reconstituted basement-membrane barriers 2- to 3.5-fold more than did untreated control cells, depending upon length of tgf-beta 1 exposure. increased invasive potential is apparently due, in part, to a 2- to 6-fold increase in type iv collagenolytic (gelatinolytic) and a 2.4-fold increase in heparanase activity. tgf-beta 1 treatment of mtln3 cells did not alter their growth rate or morphology in the presence of serum; however, growth was inhibited in serum-free medium. likewise, adhesion to human umbilical vein endothelial cell monolayers or to immobilized reconstituted basement membrane or fibronectin matrices was unchanged. these results suggest that tgf-beta 1 may modulate metastatic potential of mammary tumor cells by controlling their ability to break down and penetrate basement-membrane barriers.
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules by mucosal mononuclear phagocytes in inflammatory bowel disease. leukocyte adhesion molecules are important in cell-cell interactions of the immune system. lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (cluster designation 11a) mediates interactions between t cells and mononuclear phagocytes through its ligand, the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (cd54), whereas complement receptors 3 (cd 11b) and 4 (cd11c) are involved in complement-mediated phagocytosis. expression of cd11 molecules and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was studied in colonic biopsy specimens from 20 patients with inflammatory bowel disease and 10 normal controls. in normal colon, few mononuclear phagocytes expressed lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 at high densities. the major adhesion molecule was cd11c. thus, the largest population of normal colonic mononuclear phagocytes was represented by quiescent, resident macrophages with likely phagocytic function. in inflammatory bowel disease, mononuclear phagocytes showed only a slight increase in cd11a expression and no significant change in expression of cd11b and cd11c. by contrast, the percentage of mononuclear phagocytes expressing intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was increased from 6.9% +/- 3.9% in controls to 69.2% +/- 12.8% in ulcerative colitis (p less than 0.001) and to 45.7% +/- 22.8% in crohn's disease (p less than 0.01), showing a close relationship with histological activity. the increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in inflammatory bowel disease indicates a state of immunological activation induced by local release of inflammatory cytokines. such induction of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on mononuclear phagocytes may be important in the maintenance of chronic inflammation by facilitating interactions with t cells and t-cell antigen recognition.
murine monoclonal anti-idiotype antibody as a potential network antigen for human carcinoembryonic antigen. carcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract are not curable by standard therapies. thus, new therapeutic approaches for this disease are needed. this study proposes the use of anti-id mab as ag substitutes to induce anti-tumor immunity in gastrointestinal cancer patients. recently, we have generated and characterized one monoclonal anti-id antibody, designated 3h1 (ab2), which mimics biologically and antigenically a distinct and specific epitope of the 180,000 m.w. carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) primarily expressed in high density by human pancreatic and colonic tumor cells. this epitope is unique to cea and not present on other cea-related lower m.w. members of the ag family also found on normal tissues. the antigenic determinant as defined by the mab 8019 (ab1) against which the ab2, 3h1 was raised, is absent on normal adult tissues by immunoperoxidase staining and haematopoietic cells including granulocytes by flow cytometry analysis. anti-id (ab2) 3h1 induced cea-specific antibodies in mice and rabbits. the immune sera from both mice and rabbits competed with ab1 for binding to the colon carcinoma cell line ls174t and inhibited the binding of radioiodinated ab1 to ab2. this indicates that anti-anti-id (ab3) in mice and rabbits share idiotopes with ab1 (8019). furthermore, monoclonal ab3 that bind to cea have been generated from mice immunized with 3h1. the ab3 (both polyclonal as well as monoclonal) immunoprecipitated the same 180,000 m.w. cea as ab1 (8019) by western blotting analysis and showed almost identical immuno-staining patterns as ab1 on colonic adenocarcinoma tissue sections from several patients. collectively these data suggest that ab2 3h1 could potentially be used clinically as a network ag for immunotherapy of patients with cea positive tumors.
performance and prognosis in patients with lung cancer. the edinburgh lung cancer group. the edinburgh lung cancer group prospectively registered 651 new patients presenting with lung cancer during 1981; only 47 survived five years (7%). the survival rate was highest in patients selected for surgery (35/116, 30%) and in this group was related to cell type, stage of disease, and possibly to karnofsky performance score (not statistically significant). by comparison with non-surgical patients these 116 patients undergoing surgery were highly selected in terms of age, favourable histological type, stage of disease, and performance score. forty-two of the 535 non-surgical patients were given radical radiotherapy alone and seven (17%) survived five years. the remaining 493 received palliative radiotherapy, chemotherapy (alone or combined with radiotherapy), or symptomatic treatment alone; only five (1%) survived five years. median survival was related to cell type (adenocarcinoma 2.6 months, squamous cell carcinoma 6.2 months), stage (stage i 8.5 months, stage iii 4 months), and karnofsky performance index (greater than or equal to 90 9.3 months, less than or equal to 50 1.2 months). age and sex had no independent prognostic value in any group. performance score was highly correlated with stage (and age) and in this study represented the "best prognostic factor" in clinical practice.
efficacy and morbidity of partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy. in recent years, we have seen increasing use of partial laryngectomies for larger lesions that were previously treated by total laryngectomy. the resultant closer margins have made postoperative radiation therapy an important adjuvant treatment to conservation laryngeal surgery. we review the university of california, los angeles, experience with combination partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy between 1973 and 1987 for treatment of carcinoma of the larynx. twenty-four such patients who underwent partial laryngectomies and postoperative radiation therapy are examined. techniques of treatment, complications, and the functional ability of the remaining larynx are discussed. the locoregional control rate at 5 years was 80%. risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence were positive margins, vascular invasion, and extranodal spread. there were no major problems with postoperative wound healing or airway management during the radiation treatment. vocal and swallowing function were well preserved in most cases. we conclude that combination partial laryngectomy and radiation therapy permits preservation of laryngeal function without serious complications, and therefore is an effective treatment for selected patients with carcinoma of the larynx.
tuberous sclerosis. tuberous sclerosis (epiloia, bourneville-pringle syndrome) is an inherited disease with an autosomal pattern. both sexes are affected equally with varied expression in successive generations. two cases of this unusual disorder in siblings are reported. they illustrate heredofamilial nature, dissimilar expression, mutations, and oral manifestations.
sepsis-related cardiogenic shock. to further define cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with septic shock, serial conventional hemodynamic measurements combined with two-dimensional echocardiographic studies were performed at the bedside in 21 patients admitted for an acute episode of sepsis-related circulatory failure. measurements obtained during the first hours of hospitalization revealed a group of six patients (group 1) with markedly depressed left ventricular function, as evidenced by a low cardiac index (ci) (2.2 +/- 0.8 l/min.m2), reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) (21 +/- 8%), and an increased arterial-venous oxygen content difference. right ventricular systolic function was also severely depressed. these patients were characterized as having sepsis-related cardiogenic shock secondary to profound myocardial depression, which was reversible within 24 to 48 h with inotropic support. the 15 remaining patients (group 2) exhibited an initially increased ci (4.9 +/- 1.8 l/min.m2), with a low systemic vascular resistance. in group 2, lvef remained within the normal range despite abnormally low peripheral vascular resistance. this finding would suggest the presence of slight to moderate depression of left ventricular systolic function. all patients in this series had a normal left ventricular end-diastolic volume, whether profound myocardial depression was present or not.
in vitro and in vivo evaluation of intraluminal ultrasound in normal and atherosclerotic arteries. this study evaluated the dimensional and morphologic precision of arterial images obtained using intraluminal rotating a-scan ultrasound catheters [5.0f (30 mhz) and 8.0f (20 mhz)]. dimensions of in vitro ultrasound images from human arteries (eight normal and nine arteriosclerotic) were compared with those from histologic sections of the vessels. in addition, in vivo ultrasound studies (23 normal and 22 arteriosclerotic) of canine femoral arteries were compared with luminal dimensions obtained from angiograms of the vessels. the correlation of in vitro ultrasound images to luminal diameters (n = 22, r = 0.96), adventitial diameters (n = 19, r = 0.83), and wall thickness (n = 19, r = 0.68) in normal human vessels was significant (p less than 0.05). in vitro measurements of images and histologic specimens from human atherosclerotic arteries also correlated significantly (p less than 0.05) with luminal diameters (n = 27, r = 0.91), adventitial diameters (n = 24, r = 0.60), and wall thickness (n = 24, r = 0.62). morphologically, in vitro images of the wall of normal human arteries had a concentric laminated appearance and atherosclerotic vessels had patchy echodense and echolucent areas. in vivo studies showed significant correlation of diameters for both normal (n = 16, r = 0.91, p less than 0.05) and arteriosclerotic (n = 16, r = 0.57, p less than 0.05) canine arteries compared with luminal dimensions measured from uniplanar angiograms. we conclude that rotating a-scan intraluminal ultrasound accurately defines both normal and atherosclerotic arterial wall morphology and dimensions. this technology may be valuable for intravascular guidance of angioplasty devices by identifying the location and consistency of lesions.
valve and great vessel stenosis: assessment with mr jet velocity mapping. for measurement of poststenotic jet velocities with magnetic resonance (mr) imaging, the authors reduced the echo time (te) of the field even-echo rephasing (feer) velocity mapping sequence from 14.0 to 3.6 msec, so minimizing the problem of mr signal loss from turbulent fluid. in vitro use of rotating disk and stenotic flow phantoms confirmed that the 3.6-msec te sequence enables accurate measurement of jet velocities of up to 6.0 m/sec (r = .996). peak jet velocity measurements were made with mr imaging in 36 patients with stenosis of native heart valves (n = 9), conduits (n = 19), or fontan connections (n = 2) or with aortic coarctation (n = 6). peak velocity measurements made with mr imaging agreed well with measurements made with doppler ultrasound (us), which were available in 18 cases (standard deviation = 0.2 m/sec). velocity mapping with fast-echo mr imaging is likely to have considerable importance as a noninvasive means of locating and evaluating stenoses, particularly at sites inaccessible to us, but care must be taken to prevent errors caused by malalignment, signal loss, phase wrap, or partial-volume effects.
radionuclide imaging in otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. radionuclide imaging provides both qualitative and quantitative information that can have dramatic effects on patient management in diseases of the head and neck. the general concepts of nuclear medicine imaging, including radiopharmaceuticals and radiation effects, are discussed. the principles and techniques of thyroid, parathyroid, bone, and salivary radionuclide imaging studies will be reviewed. the intent of this article is to provide a concise and current review of head and neck radionuclide imaging that will be useful in the day-to-day practice of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery.
detection of gastric erosions: comparison of biphasic radiography with fiberoptic endoscopy. biphasic radiography was compared with fiberoptic endoscopy in detecting gastric erosions in a prospective, blinded study of 385 patients with dyspepsia. because no absolute standard was available for the comparison, since histologic confirmation of all erosions was not possible, the kappa statistic was used to compare results from both modalities. flat (incomplete) erosions were detected with endoscopy only and were considered to be present in 42 patients (11.2%). varioliform (complete) erosions were identified with both radiography and endoscopy in 12 patients (3.2%). for the detection of varioliform erosions, a substantial agreement beyond chance between both modalities was found (kappa = 0.73; standard error, 0.12). thus, flat erosions were detected with endoscopy only, whereas state-of-the-art radiography and endoscopy were equally sensitive for detecting varioliform erosions. histologic confirmation of erosions was obtained in only 75% of the patients. it is unknown whether the demonstration of erosions with radiography and/or endoscopy correlates with dyspepsia.
is caffeine withdrawal the mechanism of postoperative headache? this study examined the hypothesis that headache after general anesthesia is related to a caffeine withdrawal state. two hundred eighty-seven patients undergoing minor elective procedures under general anesthesia were studied. four to six hours after anesthesia each patient completed a questionnaire assessing his or her own alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine consumption, and the occurrence of postoperative side effects. a highly significant difference was found between the caffeine consumption of patients with and without preoperative (p = 0.0035) and postoperative (p less than 0.0001) headache. logistic regression analysis of trend between headache and caffeine consumption suggested that with each 100-mg increase in caffeine consumption, there was a 12% increase in the odds of headache developing in the immediate preoperative period (p less than 0.0066) and a 16% increase in the odds of postoperative headache developing (p less than 0.0001). no relationship was found between headache and the patients' age, sex, usual frequency of headache, consumption of alcohol or nicotine, or the anesthetic agents or adjuvants used. it is concluded that postoperative headache is related to caffeine intake and that this relationship is explained, at least in part, by a perioperative caffeine withdrawal syndrome.
management of gastroenteritis. childhood gastroenteritis remains a common reason for admission to british paediatric units, although the severity of the disease appears to be diminishing in recent years. we studied 215 infants and children with gastroenteritis admitted consecutively to four paediatric units in south wales in order to determine the severity of the disease, the organisms isolated, the frequency of complications, and the adequacy of management before admission. stool pathogens were isolated in 125 (58%) patients (viruses in 65, bacteria in 30, and protozoa in 19, with multiple infection found in 11). there was a low incidence of morbidity and complications, but prolonged diarrhoea (postenteritis syndrome) was present in 24 (11%) cases and 77 (36%) had received inappropriate treatment before admission. contemporary gastroenteritis is thus a relatively mild disease in the acute phase, but management before admission to hospital is often inadequate, and prolonged diarrhoea may be a feature in a considerable number of cases.
oral labetalol in hypertensive urgencies. the response to incremental doses of oral labetalol in 16 patients with hypertensive urgencies is presented. after inadequate blood pressure control with 20 mg of intravenous furosemide, each patient received a 300 mg oral dose of labetalol. subsequent oral doses of labetalol, 100 mg, were administered at 2-hour intervals, if the diastolic blood pressure remained greater than 100 mm hg. the maximum dose of labetalol per patient was 500 mg. five patients required only the initial 300 mg dose of labetalol. two patients required further therapy for satisfactory blood pressure control. mean arterial pressure fell from 156 +/- 12 mm hg to 123 +/- 14 mm hg.
oxidative damage to lipids within the inflamed human joint provides evidence of radical-mediated hypoxic-reperfusion injury. previous work has established the existence of a pathophysiological environment within the inflamed human joint, capable of sustaining a hypoxic-reperfusion event. using four different assay systems (two standard and two novel) applied to synovial fluid for the assessment of lipid peroxidation, a series of studies demonstrate that exercise of the inflamed human knee promotes radical-mediated lipid peroxidation within the joint. the implication for novel antioxidant therapeutic approaches to inflammatory joint disease is discussed.
neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis in two neutropenic patients. neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis is an uncommon, self-limited dermatosis with a variable clinical presentation. it seems to be due to chemotherapeutic drugs in most cases. necrosis of the eccrine gland associated with a neutrophilic infiltrate is the histologic hallmark of this disease. we report two additional cases in neutropenic patients with acute myelogenous leukemia in which there was a striking lack of neutrophil infiltration. a new term, drug-associated eccrine hidradenitis, is suggested.
the natural history of thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia. sixty-one of 375 women with hypertension and preeclampsia in a 48-month period had thrombocytopenia. by postpartum day 3, 90% of these women had rising platelet counts, and by day 4, 59 of 61 women had counts greater than 100,000/mm3. the two exceptions had other pathologic conditions in addition to preeclampsia. thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia should resolve by postpartum day 4.
clinical performance of st. jude and medtronic-hall prostheses: a randomized comparative study. newer and improved models of mechanical prostheses are regularly added to surgeons' armamentarium. this study was designed to compare the clinical performance of two of the most used current models of mechanical prostheses. from august 1983 through july 1985, 182 white patients were prospectively randomized to implantation of the st. jude medical (95 patients) or medtronic-hall (87 patients) prostheses. there were 84 mitral, 85 aortic, and 13 double (mitral and aortic) valve replacements. there were no differences between the two groups with regard to sex distribution, age, functional class, emergency operation, and site of implantation. early mortality was 3.2% for patients with the st. jude valve and 5.7% for those with the medtronic-hall (p = ns). the survivors were followed for 3 to 5 years (mean, 4.2 +/- 0.6 years; cumulative follow-up, 559 patient-years). late mortality was 7.1%/patient-year for the st. jude group and 3.2%/patient-year for the medtronic-hall group (p less than 0.05). however, the valve-related mortality was equal (1.4%/patient-year) for both groups. noncardiac causes accounted for most of the difference between the st. jude and medtronic-hall groups (2.5%/patient-year and 0.4%/patient-year, respectively). there were no cases of thrombotic obstruction, whereas serious systemic thromboembolism occurred at the rate of 1.8%/patient-year (5 episodes) for the st. jude group and 2.5%/patient-year (7 episodes) for the medtronic-hall group (p = not significant); there were another nine episodes of systemic embolism that left no sequelae. three patients (st. jude, 2; medtronic-hall, 1), all of whom had aortic valve replacement, required reoperation (0.5%/patient-year) because of prosthetic endocarditis, with two deaths.
abnormal epidermal changes after argon laser treatment. a 26-year-old woman with a congenital port-wine stain on the forehead was treated three times at 2-month intervals with an argon laser. six months after the last treatment, moderate blanching and mild scaling confined to the treated area was observed. a biopsy specimen of the treated area revealed a significant decrease in ectatic vessels. however, epidermal changes similar to those of actinic keratosis with disorganized cell layers and marked cytologic abnormalities were seen. analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes for a defect in dna repair was negative. multiple, argon laser-induced photothermal effects may be responsible for the changes observed in our case and may lead to premalignant epidermal transformation.
physicochemical determinants of in vitro shock-wave biliary lithotripsy. human gallstones were studied by visual inspection, computerized tomographic imaging, and chemical analysis to assess physicochemical characteristics that may determine the outcome of in vitro shock-wave fragmentation. eighty-five stones (mean diameter: 13.2 +/- 5 mm) were each collected from different patients. fifty-five (65%) calculi were angular and 30 (35%) round or oval-shaped. three easily obtained measures were derived from each stone's optimal computerized tomographic image including the mean stone density, a measure corresponding to the standard deviation of the mean stone density value which we termed the stone density distribution index and which may reflect the physicochemical heterogeneity of a given gallstone, as well as the density range. after the administration of 2500 shock waves using an electrohydraulic generator, fragmentation was noted in 68 calculi (80%) and was satisfactory in 27 (32%) (where the largest resulting fragment diameters were all less than or equal to 5 mm). strong determinants of satisfactory fragmentation on multivariate analysis included a stone diameter of less than or equal to 15 mm, the presence of an angular stone shape, and a stone density distribution index of greater than or equal to 60 hounsfield units. the other parameters did not independently determine satisfactory fragmentation. prospective clinical trials are needed to assess whether these findings result in a better prediction of the success of extracorporeal biliary lithotripsy and a broadening of its indications.
anti-cd33 monoclonal antibody and etoposide/cytosine arabinoside combinations for the ex vivo purification of bone marrow in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. pharmacologic and immunologic methods of ex-vivo bone marrow (bm) purging for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) were combined to augment the effect of either method alone. etoposide (vp16; 20 to 30 micrograms/ml) with or without cytosine arabinoside (ara c; 10 mg/ml) was used in tandem with the anti-cd33 monoclonal antibody (moab), my9, chosen because cd33 is found on the stem cell pool in the majority of patients with anll. the agents were tested singly or sequentially, with a 1-hour incubation of the drugs preceding complement-mediated lysis using my9. vp16 combined with ara c killed up to 3.9 +/- 0.3 and 5.11 +/- 0.4 logs of the human anll cell lines hl60 and k562 at drug concentrations that killed only 1.2 +/- 0.1 logs of normal committed granulocyte/macrophage stem cells (cfu-gm). adding a single exposure of the my9 and complement (c') to the drug-treated cells, greater than 5.4 logs of hl60 were killed. similar to other pharmacologic agents, no differential kill for clonagenic leukemic cells (colony-forming unit-leukemia; cfu-l) from patients with anll was seen for drug only treated blasts versus normal cfu-granulocyte-macrophage (cfu-gm), with less than 1 log cfu-l kill at drug concentrations that spared 1 log of cfu-gm. similarly, only 1.1 +/- 0.3 logs of anll cfu-l were eliminated using my9 and c'. however, with the sequential vp16/ara c----my9 + c' treatment, synergy was demonstrated and 2.6 +/- 0.3 logs of cfu-l were eliminated. because cd33 is also found on the normal cfu-gm pool, two-stage long-term bm cultures were performed to determine pluripotent stem cell elimination by the drug/moab purging combination. no difference of cfu-gm or bfu-e production at 4 to 6 weeks of culture for vp16/ara c, my9 + c', or vp16/arac----my9 + c' treated cells was seen compared with untreated controls indicating sparing of early progenitor cells. sequential ex vivo treatment of human anll cfu-l with vp16/ara c followed by complement-mediated lysis using my9 synergistically kills cfu-l while sparing early normal hematopoietic progenitor cells, and thus may be a more effective way to purge bm than either alone.
prognostic indicators in invasive breast cancer. tumor size and axillary lymph node involvement are the primary determinants of clinical course for most patients. receptors for estrogen and progesterone are important additional prognostic factors for disease-free survival, overall survival, survival time after initial disease recurrence, and the likelihood of response to hormonal therapy. histologic grading has merit as a prognostic factor, although poor reproducibility limits its broad application. promising data have been emerging from the use of flow cytometry to analyze dna content and proliferative rate. patients with aneuploid tumors are more likely to have a shorter survival time than patients with diploid tumors. a high s-phase fraction also identifies a subset of patients at increased risk for early relapse. a combined index of ploidy and s-phase may be a more useful guide; together, diploidy and low s-phase identify a subgroup of node-negative patients at very low risk for disease recurrence. a number of oncogenes have been identified in breast cancer; amplification of the her-2/neu gene or overexpression of the gene product may be an important prognostic indicator for node-positive patients.
microspectrophotometric dna analysis in ulcerative colitis with special reference to its application in diagnosis of carcinoma and dysplasia. the deoxyribonucleic (dna) content was measured by microspectrophotometry in 100 specimens from 60 patients with ulcerative colitis, including six patients in whom the colitis was associated with carcinoma. some 23 of 30 (77%) specimens of dysplastic tissue showed aneuploidy or polyploidy, whereas 50 of 53 (94%) specimens of non-dysplastic tissue showed diploidy. the difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). polyploidy was often observed in non-dysplastic mucosa from patients who had carcinoma or dysplasia. in the non-dysplastic patients all samples of inflamed tissue showed diploidy. some 10% of samples without inflammation, however, also showed polyploidy. a good correlation was found between the frequency of polyploid cells and the grade of dysplasia. microspectrophotometric measurement of dna content proved useful in the assessment and diagnosis of dysplasia in ulcerative colitis and could be considered for screening high risk patients.
simplified hepatic resection with the use of prolonged vascular inflow occlusion. ten consecutive patients scheduled to undergo liver resection were studied prospectively with the use of a standard protocol, which included routine vascular inflow occlusion to reduce blood loss and blood transfusion requirements. fibrin sealant was sprayed on the raw liver surface, and abdominal drainage was not performed. no deaths occurred, and the postoperative course was remarkably smooth. the normothermic liver ischemic times of 30 to 122 minutes (mean, 73 minutes) were well tolerated. the amount of blood transfused was reduced to a mean of 2 u (range, 0 to 4 u). the occurrence of infected intraabdominal bile collections in two patients with preexisting biliary tract infection suggested that abdominal drainage should be performed in such patients. vascular inflow occlusion is recommended for all liver resections.
the role of the chest roentgenogram in febrile neutropenic patients. in a retrospective review of patients with neutropenia and fever, we sought to determine how often roentgenograms detected pulmonary disease, especially pneumonia, not suggested by signs and symptoms. further, we sought to determine how often therapy was changed as a result of roentgenographic findings. overall, 41 (22%) of 187 chest roentgenograms obtained during initial febrile episodes, recurrent fevers, or persistent fevers were abnormal. while most patients had signs and symptoms suggesting the presence of pulmonary disease, 17% had roentgenographic abnormalities detected in the absence of such findings. during initial febrile episodes, therapy was not changed in response to findings on the chest roentgenogram. however, during episodes of persistent or recurrent fever, findings on chest roentgenograms led to changes in therapy in eight (61%) of 13 episodes of which six (40%) resulted in clinical improvement. chest roentgenograms were therefore found to be an important diagnostic tool in evaluating recurrent or persistent fever in the neutropenic patient but of little use during initial febrile episodes.
regression of intracardiac thrombus after embolic stroke. using two-dimensional echocardiography, we studied the pathophysiology of intracardiac thrombus regression accompanied by anticoagulant therapy in 82 consecutive patients with acute cardiogenic cerebral embolism. we noted intracardiac thrombus in 15 patients; nine of the 15 were started on anticoagulant therapy with warfarin potassium to maintain the prothrombin time between 2.5 and 3.5 (international normalized ratio). serial two-dimensional echocardiograms were obtained for these nine patients before and after anticoagulation, with the plasma levels of fibrinopeptide a, fibrinopeptide b beta 15-42, and d-dimer measured at the same time. in eight of the nine patients the intracardiac thrombi gradually decreased in size while the plasma level of fibrinopeptide a fell to within the normal range and the plasma levels of fibrinopeptide b beta 15-42 and d-dimer remained above the normal ranges. in the other patient the thrombus disappeared, with embolization to the right arm immediately after starting anticoagulant therapy. mobile or small thrombi regressed earlier than nonmobile or large ones. we conclude that regression of intracardiac thrombi after anticoagulation may be based on the relative predominance of plasma fibrinolytic activity over anticoagulation-inhibited thrombin activity.
combined myocardial revascularization and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. myocardial infarction remains the leading cause of early and late deaths after abdominal aortic reconstruction in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm. our approach for the past 4 years has been combined myocardial revascularization with abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients with good left ventricle performance. from july 1984 through june 1989, 128 patients underwent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. seventeen patients underwent combined abdominal aortic reconstruction with coronary artery bypass grafting. one patient died (5.9%). the remaining patients are all well at current follow-up. our experience shows that patients with coronary artery disease and abdominal aortic aneurysm may have both lesions safely repaired as a single operative procedure.
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies of the spine. although the foregoing review of embryologic development and congenital anomalies of the spine in infants and children is necessarily brief, the most commonly encountered abnormalities have been reviewed, and when possible, an attempt has been made to cite the stage of embryologic development at which the various abnormalities originate. as noted, congenital abnormalities of the spine are relatively uncommon but may be of profound clinical significance. during the past decade, the most significant developments in the diagnosis and treatment of these abnormalities have been ultrasonography, ct scanning, and mr imaging. in the neonate, the spinal cord and neural outflow can be evaluated by ultrasonography until the osseous elements begin to fuse. thereafter, mr imaging is the procedure of choice because it permits evaluation of the spine and spinal cord in all planes of imaging and provides detailed evaluation of the effect of osseous abnormalities on neural structures. finally, plain radiographs of the spine for evaluation of neonates who have any of a spectrum of sacral dimples are rarely helpful, and in the presence of significant cutaneous or subcutaneous abnormalities, ultrasonography is the preferred modality for evaluation.
comparative study of different techniques of intraocular gas tamponade in the treatment of retinal detachment due to macular hole. the injection of sulfur hexafluoride (sf6) or perfluoropropane (c3f8) was used as a method of internal tamponade in 43 eyes affected by retinal detachment due to macular hole. the technique of ocular hypotension prior to gas injection varied according to the characteristics of each case, using vitrectomy and sf6 30% in 8 cases (group 1), fluid-gas (sf6) exchange through the pars plana in 10 cases (group 2), paracentesis of the anterior chamber prior to injection of sf6 in 12 cases (group 3) and injection of c3f8 without drainage in 13 cases (group 4). retinal reattachment was initially achieved in 87 (group 1), 83.3 (group 2), 100 (group 3) and 92.3% (group 4), but 4 recurrences yielded a 6-month follow-up cure of 75 (group 1), 75 (group 2), 91 (group 3) and 84% (group 4). postoperative complications included proliferative vitreoretinopathy (7%), endophthalmitis (2.3%) and subretinal hemorrhage (2.3%). the use of intraocular gas tamponade appears to be a procedure with an acceptable complication rate in the treatment of retinal detachment due to macular hole. this study suggests the use of paracentesis and sf6 in phakic eyes, c3f8 in aphakic eyes and vitrectomy plus 30% sf6 in eyes with proliferative vitreoretinopathy or vitreoretinal traction adjacent to the macular hole.
flow cytometric analysis of the mechanism of methylmercury cytotoxicity. flow cytometric analysis of murine erythroleukemic cells (melc) exposed in vitro to 2.5 to 7.5 mumol/l (micromolar) methylmercury (mehg) reveals a dose-dependent decrease in the rate of dna synthesis (rate of passage through the s phase of the cell cycle), manifested as the accumulation of most of the cells in the s phase, and a modest accumulation of cells in the g2/m phase of the cycle. light microscopy reveals a progressive increase in chromosomal damage (condensation, pulverization). at or above 10 mumol/l mehg, progression through all the phases of the cell cycle is blocked and mitotic cells are arrested irreversibly in anaphase, with most exhibiting arrangement of chromosomes in a wreathlike ring formation. also the cells exhibit both nuclear propidium iodide (pi) fluorescence (indicative of loss of viability) and concurrent cytoplasmic carboxyfluorescein (cf) fluorescence (viable cells exhibit cf fluorescence and exclude pi). in addition, there is a dose-dependent increase in cellular refractive index (90 degrees light scatter), an apparent decrease in cell volume (axial light loss), and progressive resistance to detergent (np-40)-mediated cytolysis. resistance to detergent-mediated cytolysis is indicative of fixation (protein denaturation, cross-linking, and so on) of the plasma membrane/cytoplasm complex. our findings indicate that dna synthesis is the primary target of mehg cytotoxicity and that apparent targets and degree of cytotoxicity are a complex function of dose.
potential role of beta-carotene in prevention of oral cancer. recent data suggests that retinoids and carotenoids may be effective in reversing a putative "field cancerization" defect in the epithelium at risk for oral cancer. animal experiments have shown that these compounds can inhibit cancer formation. several clinical trials have demonstrated the ability of retinoids to reverse oral leukoplakia. however, toxicities associated with retinoids at the doses used in these studies limits their potential for chemoprevention. because of its lack of toxicity, beta-carotene is a very attractive agent for chemoprevention. it suppresses micronuclei in exfoliated oral mucosal cells from subjects at risk for oral cancer and recently has been shown to be active in reversing leukoplakia. another area under investigation is the possibility of preventing second primary tumors in patients cured of their initial cancer who have an increased risk of developing new cancers of the upper acrodigestive tract.
long-term psychosocial adjustment to coronary artery disease. personality hardiness, which has been conceptualized as a potential internal resource facilitating stress resistance, was examined in conjunction with type a behavior, perceived family cohesion and adaptability, and sociodemographic and medical variables to assess the independent differential correlations of these factors with long-term psychosocial adjustment to coronary artery disease. one hundred twenty-eight patients completed the third generation hardiness scale, together with questionnaires measuring type a behavior, perceived family cohesion and adaptability, and psychosocial adjustment to illness. the results showed that personality hardiness was the most salient correlate of psychosocial adjustment. high hardiness scores were associated with good adjustment to the various life domains. angina severity accounted for the variance in social domains, but not the psychologic distress domain. type a behavior, both dimensions of perceived family dynamics, and the sociodemographic variables did not have a significant role in explaining the variance in psychosocial adjustment. we conclude that personality hardiness could serve as a valid indicator of long-term psychosocial adjustment in patients with coronary artery disease.
the role of mucous glycoproteins in the rheologic properties of cystic fibrosis sputum. cystic fibrosis (cf) is characterized by excessive amounts of thick and tenacious mucous secretions that obstruct organ ducts and passages. in the respiratory tract this is associated with chronic infection resulting in the hypersecretion of purulent sputum, which the patient finds difficult to clear. we have studied the rheologic properties of purulent sputum from six patients with cf and five patients with chronic bronchitis to assess whether cf is associated with increased sputum viscoelasticity. in addition, we have isolated the major rheologic determinants, mucous glycoproteins, from cf and chronic bronchitis sputa and, using a magnetic microrheometer, investigated the possibility that the altered properties of mucus in cf are associated with abnormalities in these glycoproteins. creep compliance analysis indicated that the cf sputa possessed raised levels of both elasticity (p less than 0.01) and viscosity (p less than 0.01). these increases in both rheologic parameters were found to be associated with increases in the dna content (p less than 0.01) and dry weight (p less than 0.05). mucous glycoproteins were isolated from cf and chronic bronchitis sputum samples by gel filtration on sepharose cl4b, followed by concentration to form 8% wt/wt gels. in the absence of other sputum components, no abnormality in the rheologic properties of cf mucin gels could be detected. however, when dna was added, the cf gels responded with increases in both elasticity and viscosity of as much as 30% (p less than 0.05), an effect not observed in the chronic bronchitis gels. these results suggest that a subtle abnormality may exist in cf mucous glycoproteins and that this could have a role in the altered physical properties of mucous secretions in cf.
inflammatory breast cancer. historically, the prognosis of inflammatory breast cancer has been poor. we conducted a retrospective review to evaluate the recent memorial sloan-kettering cancer center experience, to evaluate the role of combination chemotherapy, and to compare the effect of surgery and radiation on local/regional failure. fifty-six patients with local/regional inflammatory breast cancer diagnosed between 1975 and 1984 were identified. all were treated with combination chemotherapy. overall 5-year survival was 45% with a 5-year disease-free survival rate of 37%. twenty-one patients were treated with induction chemotherapy followed by mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy. survival and disease-free survival rates were similar to those achieved in patients treated with mastectomy followed by chemotherapy. residual cancer was found in all 21 patients treated with induction chemotherapy, with extensive disease present in 18, including six of seven complete responders. the local/regional failure rate was 34%.
doppler ultrasound of the deep leg veins. a revolution in the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis and monitoring of thrombolysis. the diagnosis of lower limb deep vein thrombosis can be made rapidly by compression ultrasound. this noninvasive test has almost completely replaced contrast phlebography in some major hospitals in north america. compression ultrasound is well suited for making the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis, measuring its extent, and monitoring the draining veins of the calf for evidence of spread of calf vein thrombosis. the nature of the deep vein thrombus, whether it is obstructing or nonobstructing, can be determined with the additional use of color doppler mapping, a technique that displays flowing blood as a color overlay to the 2-dimensional real-time ultrasound image. serial noninvasive determinations of the extent of thrombus in the lower-extremity deep veins is now possible with this combined sonographic imaging approach. monitoring of possible changes in the extent of the thrombus burden can now be undertaken in patients enrolled in trials assessing the efficacy of different thrombolytic regimens.
giant breast hematoma requiring blood transfusion: an unusual complication after an echocardiographic study during thrombolytic therapy. we report on a patient in whom significant bleeding occurred during thrombolytic therapy. the bleeding occurred after an echocardiographic study, and it resulted in blood transfusion.
development of a traumatic intracranial hematoma after a "minor" head injury. we have analyzed features of patients who had what appeared initially to be a minor head injury but who developed an acute traumatic intracranial hematoma. over a 10-year period, 183 patients who were able to open their eyes spontaneously, were oriented to person, place, and time, and who obeyed commands when they were first seen at a hospital subsequently underwent operation for an acute intracranial hematoma. the hematoma was extradural in 54% of these patients. a history of altered consciousness or symptoms of headache and vomiting were present in 61% of the patients; 33% had a focal neurological deficit, and 43% had either focal deficit or signs of a basal skull fracture. a skull fracture was shown radiologically in 60% of patients, including 52% of those not clinically suspected of having an intracranial lesion. six months after injury, 77% of the patients had made a moderate or good recovery. the possibility that a patient who has recently sustained a head injury might develop an acute intracranial hematoma can never be completely discounted, even when there are no abnormal clinical signs, and a skull x-ray retains a useful place in the investigation of selected patients with a minor head injury.
free protein s deficiency in a family with venous thrombosis. inherited deficiencies of protein s, an inhibitor of the coagulation system, are now recognized as occurring at least twice as frequently as antithrombin iii deficiency in patients with venous thrombosis. protein s is present in plasma in a complexed form, which is inactive, and in a free or functional form. free protein s combines with activated protein c to inhibit factors v and viii. this report describes the evaluation of a family with recurrent deep venous thrombosis and superficial thrombophlebitis. levels of antithrombin iii and protein c as well as plasminogen were normal. the levels of total protein s, which includes the value for the free and complexed forms of protein s, were also normal. however, the free protein s levels were greatly reduced in all symptomatic members who were studied. this report illustrates the importance of obtaining measurement of free protein s levels in patients who are suspected of having inherited venous thrombotic disorders.
hemodynamic determinants of vascular changes in hypertension and atherosclerosis. several new concepts are reviewed concerning structural and functional changes in atherosclerotic and hypertensive blood vessels. first, in regard to modulation of vascular changes, atherosclerosis appears to progress more slowly during hypotension than during normotension. this finding may have implications for the optimal level of blood pressure. second, structural "remodeling" of the vessel wall occurs in both atherosclerosis and hypertension. remodeling helps to preserve the arterial lumen despite intimal proliferation in atherosclerosis. in contrast, remodeling (which differs from vascular hypertrophy) reduces the vascular lumen in chronic hypertension. third, functional changes impair active vasodilator responses in both atherosclerotic and hypertensive vessels, in part by endothelium-dependent mechanisms. finally, we propose that leukocytes as well as platelets may be important cellular mediators of spasm in atherosclerotic arteries.
acute respiratory failure and pulmonary thrombosis in leukemic children. acute respiratory failure (arf) in an 11-year-old child with pre-t acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) at the beginning of induction therapy was observed, connected with a pulmonary thrombosis and not with an infective origin. a systematic search for this pathology identified six other children with the same pulmonary complication, five of whom where in the early phase of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (anll) and one in induction therapy for all in marrow relapse. at the beginning of the symptomatology, all children presented severe hypoxia and hypercapnia, with no or minimal chest radiograph abnormalities and no clear hemodynamic involvement. in all patients the arteriography and nuclear imaging studies confirmed the diagnosis. the causes of the thrombi could be connected with neoplastic emboli after cell lysis and/or with the vascular damage resulting from antiblastic therapy. intravenous urokinase treatment and respiratory assistance had been successfully carried out in six of seven children.
desmopressin and antifibrinolytics. desmopressin appears to be a safe and effective hemostatic agent for use during surgery in patients with mild to moderate hemophilia or von willebrand disease. uremic patients also benefit from substitution of desmopressin for cryoprecipitate to control bleeding. the highly variable response to desmopressin by individual patients with hemophilia or von willebrand disease dictates that each patient receive a trial administration prior to surgery; surgery should proceed only following verification of a therapeutically effective increase in factor viii and vwf after desmopressin. use of desmopressin in patients with normal baseline hemostatic function is not clearly advantageous, although certain patient subgroups might benefit, and prospective studies have documented the drug's safety in these cases. data are lacking to clarify a role for desmopressin during surgery in patients taking aspirin. antifibrinolytic therapy appears to decrease bleeding without increased risk after cardiac surgery. in addition, specific use after urological surgery may be beneficial in the absence of upper urinary tract bleeding. in the last ten years, other applications for antifibrinolytic therapy have been found--both surgical (intracranial aneurysms, oral and lacrimal surgery) and nonsurgical (in cancer patients and for gastrointestinal bleeding). although anecdotal reports have fueled fears of increased thrombosis with antifibrinolytics, controlled studies indicate no increased risk.
total knee arthroplasty in obese patients. we examined 182 patients (257 knees) who had had a total knee arthroplasty two to five six years earlier. the patients were grouped into five weight classes. eighteen patients (twenty-seven knees) were considered moderately obese and twelve patients (twenty-seven knees), severely obese. the results in all but four knees were rated excellent or good. one patient needed a revision procedure for late infection, and the result was rated poor. three results were rated fair. there was no discernible difference in the over-all scores among the five weight groups. however, 30 per cent of the knees of the moderately and severely obese patients had patellofemoral symptoms, whereas the incidence was 14 per cent in the other groups (p less than 0.03). no clear-cut association was found between obesity and either thrombophlebitis or complications related to the wound.
technical aspects of biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. radiologic imaging procedures play a major role in the evaluation of the potential patient for biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, both during the procedure and in follow-up evaluation. the treating physician must have a thorough knowledge of ultrasonography techniques. lithotripsy requires continual monitoring and frequent reassessment to optimize targeting and fragmentation of the gallstones while maintaining patient comfort.
new approaches to the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of cytomegalovirus infection after transplantation. infection occurring after solid organ transplantation continues to exert a considerable detrimental effect upon patient and allograft survival. while the search for better targeted immunosuppressive regimens continues, we must seek to improve our ability to both diagnose and treat those infections that do occur after transplantation. viral infections in general, and cytomegalovirus (cmv) infections in particular, represent an area in which substantial progress is being made. improvement in diagnostic modalities has allowed more rapid and precise identification of cmv infection and disease, and the use of antiviral agents that possess activity against cmv has allowed both prophylaxis and treatment of this frequently life-threatening disease. the prophylactic use of presently available agents in combination and the development of less toxic, more potent anti-cmv agents should serve to further lessen the impact of cmv disease upon the field of solid organ transplantation.
vascular and microvascular changes--key factors in the development of acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats. the present study examined the time sequence and histologic and ultrastructural features of the formation and evolution of experimental, acetic acid-induced gastric ulcerations in rats. one hundred percent acetic acid was applied to the gastric serosa of 140 fasted male sprague-dawley rats through a polyethylene tube for 30 s. gastric mucosal changes were evaluated at 1, 5, 15, and 30 min, 1 and 3 h, and 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, and 11 days after acetic acid application by visual inspection, by quantitative and qualitative light microscopy, and by transmission electron microscopy. following exposure to acetic acid, the earliest morphologic changes occurred at 1 min and consisted of dilatation of large submucosal veins and arteries and mucosal collecting venules. five to 15 minutes after injury, thrombi developed in submucosal veins and collecting venules, leading to microvascular stasis and mucosal necrosis. by 3 h, necrotic masses started to detach. by 24-48 h, necrotic changes penetrated the submucosa. by 72 h, most ulcers underwent transition into a "chronic" stage characterized histologically by the presence of granulation tissue at the bottom, and the appearance of a transitional healing zone at the margins. by 5 days, an increased amount of granulation tissue was observed and the gastric glands in transitional zones at the ulcer margin displayed cystic dilatation. based on this study, we conclude that a key feature of acetic acid-induced ulcer formation is the early vascular and microvascular injury, which precedes glandular cell necrosis.
skin conductance and arousal in the newborn. we measured skin conductance continuously from the sole of a foot in babies of different conceptional ages before, during, and for 10 minutes after a 'heel prick' carried out for routine blood sampling. we studied 82 healthy babies whose gestational and postnatal ages ranged from 25-42 weeks, and 1-73 days. the median skin conductance level (preheel prick) in babies of 40-43 weeks' conceptional age was 0.6 micros (microsiemens) and differed significantly between awake babies (1.2 micros) and those who were asleep (0.5 micros). in contrast babies less than 40 weeks had a significantly lower median skin conductive level (0.3 micros) which was identical in awake and asleep babies. in response to the heel prick all babies became aroused and skin conductance rose sharply and immediately in 21 out of 22 (95%) babies 40-43 weeks' conceptional age, and in seven out of 23 (30%) babies 36-39 weeks. the median rise at one minute in babies of 40-43 weeks was significantly higher than those 36-39 weeks (2.7 micros compared with 0.5 micros). no babies less than 36 weeks had a change in their skin conductance after the heel prick. these results are consistent with the notion that 'emotional sweating' is a function of maturity and does not develop until 36 weeks' conceptional age.
expression of neural cell adhesion molecule in normal and neoplastic human neuroendocrine tissues. the neural cell adhesion molecule (n-cam) is a group of cell surface glycoproteins involved in direct cell--cell adhesion. n-cam expression in normal and neoplastic tissues was examined with specific antibodies and oligonucleotide probes by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. most neuroendocrine cells and tumors with secretory granules expressed n-cam protein and mrna. parathyroid adenomas (4) were somewhat unusual, because n-cam mrna, but not protein, was detected in some of these benign neoplasms. most non-neuroendocrine cells and tumors did not express n-cam, although uterine smooth muscle and an adrenal cortical carcinoma were both positive. western blots disclosed proteins of 180, 140, and 120 kd in normal adult brain, whereas two pheochromocytomas, a null cell adenoma, and a gastrinoma had proteins of approximately 180 and 140 kd. these results indicate that n-cam protein and mrna are widely expressed in neuroendocrine cells and neoplasms. n-cam oligonucleotide probes as well as antibodies against n-cam can be used as broad-spectrum neuroendocrine markers. in addition, these molecular probes can be used to examine the role of n-cam in the development and regulation of neuroendocrine tissues.
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma. a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients. forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel, bladder, thyroid, menstrual, reproductive, sexual, and growth function. statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls. the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function. no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy. most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement. three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy. no patients have conceived. the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group, but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function. one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder.
a rare case of renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection. a report of successful surgical treatment in childhood. renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection in an 8-year-old girl with aortic valvular stenosis is presented. a splenorenal arterial anastomosis without splenectomy was successfully performed. this procedure is considered best suited for children with thoracoabdominal aortic dissection as the autogenous graft is expected to grow and provide long-term patency. the spleen left in situ was expected to be advantageous, from the immunological aspect, at the time of open heart surgery for aortic valvular stenosis, which was anticipated in the near future in this child.
stroke recurrence within 2 years after ischemic infarction. we prospectively studied stroke recurrence in 1,273 patients with ischemic stroke who were entered into the stroke data bank. median follow-up was 13 months. the 2-year cumulative recurrence rate among these patients was 14.1%. age, sex, race, history of hypertension, atrial fibrillation, or transient ischemic attacks, and stroke location were not associated with a higher risk of stroke recurrence. patients with an elevated blood pressure, an abnormal initial computed tomogram, or a history of diabetes mellitus were at a higher risk of stroke recurrence. in contrast, patients with an infarct of unknown cause were at a lower risk of stroke recurrence than patients with a defined stroke mechanism, such as lacune, embolism, or atherosclerosis. a multivariate model suggests that patients at the lowest risk for stroke recurrence have a low diastolic blood pressure, no history of stroke, no history of diabetes mellitus, and an infarct of unknown cause.
oncocytic glomus tumor of the trachea. an oncocytic variant of glomus tumor of the trachea occurred in a 47-year-old woman. she experienced intermittent cough and hemoptysis for about three years. bronchoscopy and chest ct scan showed a small reddish polypoid tumor on the lower end of the trachea. bronchoscopic biopsy was carefully done and was diagnosed as oncocytoma. a wedge resection of the tumor was done. tumor cells were characterized by strongly eosinophilic granular cytoplasm on light microscopy and by numerous closely packed round or ovoid mitochondria with prominent tubular cristae on electron microscopy. they were arranged in a sheet around small vessels, as a result of which the biopsy diagnosis of oncocytoma was changed to oncocytic glomus tumor. to our knowledge, this is the first report of an oncocytic glomus tumor arising from the trachea.
detection of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty: improved clinical decision making with use of a logistic model combining procedural and follow-up variables. a prospective study of 111 patients who underwent repeat coronary angiography and exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy 6 +/- 2 months after complete revascularization by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed to assess whether clinical, procedure-related and postangioplasty exercise variables yield independent information for the prediction of angiographic restenosis after angioplasty. complete revascularization was defined as successful angioplasty of one or more vessels that resulted in no residual coronary lesion with greater than 50% diameter stenosis. restenosis was defined as a residual stenosis at the time of repeat angiography of greater than 50% of luminal diameter. restenosis occurred in 40% of the patients. the 111 patients were randomly subdivided into a learning group (n = 84) and a testing group (n = 27). a logistic discriminant analysis was performed in the learning group and the logistic model was used to estimate a logistic probability of restenosis. this probability of restenosis was validated in the testing group. in the learning group of 84 patients univariate analysis of 39 factors revealed 8 factors related to restenosis: recurrence of angina (p less than 0.0001), postangioplasty abnormal finding on exercise thallium-201 scintigram (p less than 0.0001), exercise thallium-201 scintigram score (p less than 0.0001), difference between exercise and rest st segment depression (p less than 0.001), postangioplasty exercise st segment depression (p less than 0.001), absolute postangioplasty stenosis diameter (p less than 0.003), postangioplasty exercise work load (p less than 0.03) and postangioplasty exercise heart rate (p less than 0.05).
idiopathic bilateral spontaneous hyphemas. spontaneous hyphemas are rare and usually associated with iris microhemangiomas or other vascular anomalies of the iris. in addition, various systemic problems can result in spontaneous hyphema. this is a case report of a bilateral spontaneous hyphema (recurrent in one eye), in which no predisposing condition could be identified after exhaustive hematologic evaluation and iris fluorescein angiography.
change in sympathetic activity before, during, and after dialysis-induced hypotension. during the hemodialyses of eight patients with end-stage renal failure, who often had sudden-onset dialysis-induced hypotension, catecholamine (ca) levels were measured in the ultrafiltrate obtained by a mini-filter placed in series upstream of the dialyzer. the water evaporation rate from the skin (reflecting the perspiration rate) was also monitored. results showed a temporary elevation in ca levels in the ultrafiltrate before hypotension occurred. this rise did not continue for long, returning to baseline when hypotension actually occurred. the temporary elevation may reflect transient compensation by the sympathetic nervous system for the decrease in vascular wall tension. it was also found that there was considerable water evaporation from the skin during hypotension. because sweat gland activity is reflexively modulated by the baroreceptor, perspiration after a drop in blood pressure may reflect the normal diminiution in baroreceptor activity.
prognostic significance of serosal invasion in carcinoma of the stomach. two hundred and seventy-seven patients with advanced carcinoma of the stomach invading the serosa were studied with regard to the relationship between the length of the serosal invasion (lsi) and prognosis, with a division made between expanding and infiltrative types of tumors. among patients with expanding types of tumors, five year survival rates were 40 per cent in patients with lsi less than 4.0 centimeters, 33 per cent in patients with lsi 4.1 to 6.0 centimeters and 13.0 per cent in patients with lsi more than 6.0 centimeters. among those patients with infiltrative types of tumors, those with less than 2.0 centimeters of lsi had a better prognosis (five year survival rate of 53 per cent), whereas those patients with a lsi more than 2.0 centimeters had a very poor prognosis (five year survival rate of less than 20 per cent) and the significant lsi on prognosis was found to be 2.0 centimeters. involvement of the lymph node and metastasis to the liver were not affected by lsi, whereas the rates of peritoneal dissemination and direct invasion to neighboring organs increased with an increase in lsi. knowledge of these factors facilitates the planning of postoperative treatment.
stomatococcus mucilaginosus catheter-related infection in an adolescent with osteosarcoma. ours is apparently the first reported pediatric case of stomatococcus mucilaginosus bacteremia. it is the second reported case of s mucilaginosus catheter-associated infection, but the first case successfully treated without removing the central venous catheter. this unusual organism should be added to the list of opportunistic pathogens that can be isolated from immunocompromised pediatric patients.
normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy we hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin (avp) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children's degree of hypovolemia, even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality. a randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma avp concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours. plasma avp concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours. nineteen children, 2 months to 17 years of age, were studied; 13 had bacterial meningitis (12 with haemophilus influenzae type b). ten children (seven with bacterial meningitis) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements, and nine (six with bacterial meningitis) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance. children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium (mean = 6.3 meq/kg/24 hr) than children in the fluid-restricted group (mean = 2.0 meq/kg/24 hr). the two groups were comparable for plasma avp concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun. the plasma avp concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction (p = 0.005), and the change in avp concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given (p less than 0.02). this study supports the hypothesis that serum avp concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney. patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone.
genetic diagnosis of lynch syndrome ii in an extended colorectal cancer-prone family. knowledge of colon cancer genetics, with particular attention to precision in hereditary cancer syndrome diagnosis, can often enable highly targeted surveillance and management strategies for patients at high genetic risk. unfortunately, the patient's family history of cancer is often given minimal attention, and knowledge of hereditary cancer syndromes is frequently limited. indeed, many physicians still consider familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) as the only genetic risk factor for colorectal cancer. this concern with fap was noted in a colorectal cancer-prone kindred which for decades had been thought to manifest that syndrome. however, after meticulous genetic, medical, and pathologic studies, the cardinal phenotypic characteristics of lynch syndrome ii were observed. the potential for cancer control in current and future generations of families like this one clearly mandates the need for computerized registries which could transmit current information about hereditary colon cancer syndrome diagnosis, surveillance, and management.
nodular regenerative hyperplasia: a cause of ascites and hepatomegaly after chemotherapy for leukemia. tender hepatomegaly and ascites occurred in a young woman receiving cytosine arabinoside and daunorubicin for acute myelogenous leukemia. whereas veno-occlusive disease was suspected clinically, liver biopsy showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia with no evidence of hepatic vein abnormalities. it is postulated that nodular regenerative hyperplasia can be initiated by hepatotoxicity of chemotherapy agents used to treat leukemia and/or that these agents exacerbate clinical manifestations of this histological abnormality. nodular regenerative hyperplasia should be added to the list of liver problems occurring in patients with leukemia.
hypoxia-induced in vivo sickling of transgenic mouse red cells. to develop an animal model for sickle cell anemia, we have created transgenic mice that express a severe naturally occurring human sickling hemoglobin, hb s antilles. due to its low solubility and oxygen affinity, hb s antilles has a greater propensity to cause red cell sickling than hb s. to make transgenic animals that express a high level of hb s antilles, the erythroid-specific dnase i hypersensitive site ii from the human beta-globin cluster was linked independently to the human alpha 2-globin gene and to the beta s antilles gene. embryos were injected with both constructs simultaneously and seven transgenic mice were obtained, three of which contained both the human alpha and the human beta s antilles transgene. after crossing the human transgenes into the mouse beta-thalassemic background a transgenic mouse line was derived in which approximately half the beta-globin chains in the murine red cells were human beta s antilles. deoxygenation of the transgenic red cells in vitro resulted in extensive sickling. an increase of in vivo sickling was achieved by placing these transgenic mice in a low oxygen environment. this murine model for red cell sickling should help to advance our understanding of sickle cell disease and may provide a model to test therapeutic interventions.
clinical prediction rule for pulmonary infiltrates objective: to derive and validate a clinical rule for predicting pneumonic infiltrates in adult patients with acute respiratory illness. design: prevalence studies in three settings. setting: emergency departments of the university of illinois hospital at chicago, the university of nebraska medical center at omaha, and the medical college of virginia at richmond. patients: symptoms, signs, comorbidity data, and chest roentgenogram results were recorded for 1134 patients from illinois (the derivation set), 150 patients from nebraska, and 152 patients from virginia (the validation sets). all patients presented to the emergency department and had a chest roentgenogram to evaluate fever or respiratory complaints. measurements and main results: within the training set, temperature greater than 37.8 degrees c, pulse greater than 100 beats/min, rales, decreased breath sounds, and the absence of asthma were identified as significant predictors of radiographically proved pneumonia in a stepwise logistic regression model (p = 0.001). the logistic rule discriminated patients with and without pneumonia in the training set with a receiver operating characteristic (roc) area of 0.82. in the validation sets, the rule discriminated pneumonia and nonpneumonia with roc areas of 0.82 and 0.76 after adjusting for differences in disease prevalence (p greater than 0.2 compared with the training set). the predicted probability of having pneumonia for patients with different clinical findings corresponded closely with the incidence of pneumonia among patients with such findings in the three settings. conclusions: among adults presenting with acute respiratory illness, a prediction rule based on clinical findings accurately discriminated patients with and without radiographic pneumonia, and was used in two other samples of patients without significant decrement in discriminatory ability. this rule can be used by physicians to develop more effective strategies for detecting pneumonia and for helping to determine the need for radiologic study among patients with acute respiratory disease.
bile acids and the increased risk of colorectal tumours after truncal vagotomy. an association between colorectal cancer and previous peptic ulcer surgery is reported. in a prospective screening study, 100 asymptomatic patients (80 men and 20 women) who had undergone truncal vagotomy at least 10 years previously were investigated by barium enema, colonoscopy and gallbladder ultrasonography. control data were obtained from forensic autopsy subjects. the incidence of neoplasms greater than or equal to 1.0 cm in the vagotomized group was 14 per cent (11 adenomas, 3 carcinomas) and 3 per cent in controls (p = 0.01). duodenal bile obtained at endoscopy from 21 vagotomized patients with normal gallbladders and from 21 control patients undergoing endoscopy was analysed by high performance liquid chromatography. the mean percentage of cholic (ca), chenodeoxycholic (cdca), deoxycholic (dca) and lithocholic (lca) acids in the bile of vagotomized patients was 32.3, 45.6, 20.7 and 1.4 per cent respectively compared with 45.3, 36.2, 17.9 and 0.7 per cent respectively in controls. the increased proportions of cdca and lca and decreased proportions of ca in the duodenal bile of vagotomized patients were significant (p less than 0.001; p = 0.02; p = 0.007). abnormalities in bile acid metabolism may help to explain the increased risk of colorectal neoplasia 10 years after truncal vagotomy.
macroscopic hematuria and proteinuria preceding renal iga deposition in patients with iga nephropathy. although the clinical onset of iga nephropathy is frequently impossible to define, macroscopic hematuria apparently heralds the onset of the disease in some patients. we describe the clinical course and renal histologic findings of four adults with iga nephropathy who were diagnosed by the characteristic immunohistologic features in a second renal biopsy specimen. iga was not detected in the initial renal biopsy specimens obtained 9 months to 4 years earlier. the first renal biopsy had been performed to evaluate macroscopic hematuria (recurrent in three patients), accompanied by pathologic proteinuria in two patients. our observations suggest that the pathognomonic immunohistologic findings of iga nephropathy may follow the clinical onset and raise questions about the presumed pathogenetic role of iga in the early stages of this disease.
skin blisters as a manifestation of oxazepam toxicity. a 75 year-old comatous patient was admitted after ingestion of 200 mg oxazepam. skin blisters, attributed to oxazepam toxicity, appeared on the left forearm the following day and regressed spontaneously nine days later.
loss of endothelium-dependent relaxant activity in the pulmonary circulation of rats exposed to chronic hypoxia. to determine whether exposure to chronic hypoxia and subsequent development of pulmonary hypertension induces alterations of endothelium-dependent relaxation in rat pulmonary vascular bed, we studied isolated lung preparations from rats exposed to either room air (controls) or hypoxia (h) during 1 wk (1w-h), 3 wk (3w-h), or 3w-h followed by 48 h recovery to room air (3wh + r). in lungs pretreated with meclofenamate (3 microm), the endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (10(-9)-10(-6) m) and ionophore a23187 (10(-9)-10(-7) m) were examined during conditions of increased tone by u46619 (50 pmol/min). acetylcholine or a23187 produced dose-dependent vasodilation in control lungs, this response was reduced in group 1w-h (p less than 0.02), abolished in group 3w-h (p less than 0.001), and restored in group 3wh + r. in contrast, the endothelium-independent vasodilator agent sodium nitroprusside remained fully active in group 3w-h. the pressor response to 300 pm endothelin was greater in group 3w-h than in controls (6.8 +/- 0.5 mmhg vs. 1.6 +/- 0.2 mmhg, p less than 0.001) but was not potentiated by the endothelium-dependent relaxing factor (edrf) antagonists: hydroquinone (10(-4) m); methylene blue (10(-4) m); and pyrogallol (3 x 10(-5) m) as it was in controls. it was similar to controls in group 3w-h + r. our results demonstrate that hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension is associated with a loss of edrf activity in pulmonary vessels, with a rapid recovery on return to a normoxic environment.
effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation on survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. to determine the effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) on the survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia, we undertook a retrospective review of 31 infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia treated at children's national medical center. infants were categorized by means of the bohn quadrant analysis to determine the impact of ecmo on infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and a "poor prognosis." all infants assigned to the bohn 100% mortality quadrant required ecmo. the survival rate in this group was 86% (6/7) when assessed preoperatively and 67% (6/9) when assessed postoperatively. comparison of the change occurring in ventilation index and arterial carbon dioxide pressure demonstrated that after repair the clinical condition of 48% of infants deteriorated, 40% improved, and 12% remained unchanged. of the 12 infants whose condition was worse after surgery, 11 eventually required ecmo. our review demonstrates that ecmo improved survival significantly in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia who had a "poor prognosis" by the criteria of bohn et al. we recommend consideration of ecmo for all infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia for whom maximal medical therapy has failed.
clinical nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy: insight into metabolism. nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) spectroscopy can nondestructively evaluate changes in metabolites with different disease states, as well as with therapeutic interventions. animal studies have provided the basis for understanding changes in high-energy phosphates with myocardial ischemia. studies of graded ischemia due to partial coronary stenosis have shown the sensitivity of the ratio of phosphocreatinine to inorganic phosphate to small reductions in myocardial blood flow and its relation to myocardial function. the application of nmr spectroscopy to humans requires precise localization techniques to avoid acquiring contaminating information from structures around the heart, such as the chest wall and diaphragm. with these localization techniques, metabolic evidence of ischemia has been demonstrated in patients with myocardial infarction and patients with known coronary disease, although the sensitivity of this technique for the diagnosis of inducible ischemia is unknown. at rest, patients with dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathies often have an elevated phosphodiester resonance, possibly signifying abnormal breakdown of membrane phospholipids. increasing oxygen demand in these patients does not usually alter high-energy phosphates, suggesting that oxidative energy metabolism is preserved under these conditions. nmr spectroscopy is a powerful tool to increase understanding of metabolic changes in a variety of pathologic conditions.
rat soleus muscle ultrastructure after hindlimb suspension. the aim of the present investigation was to determine, by quantitative electron microscopy, the effects of a 5-wk tail-suspension period on rat soleus muscle ultrastructure. a marked decline (-60%) in muscle mass occurred. the mean fiber cross-sectional area decreased to a greater extent (-75%) than the capillary-to-fiber ratio (-37%), leading to a higher capillary density (+148%) after hypokinesia. the total mitochondrial volume density remained unchanged, whereas the volume density of myofibrils was slightly but significantly reduced (-6%). a shift from subsarcolemmal to interfibrillar mitochondria occurred. interfibrillar mitochondrial volume density was highest near the fiber border and decreased toward the fiber center. an increase in volume density of satellite cells suggested muscle regenerative events. soleus atrophy with tail suspension greatly decreases the muscular volume but leaves the ultrastructural composition of muscle fibers relatively unaffected.
does somatostatin analogue prevent experimental acute pancreatitis? because somatostatin is a potent inhibitor of pancreatic secretion, we hypothesized that pretreatment with somatostatin analogue octreotide (sms 201-995) might prevent cerulein-induced edematous pancreatitis. we studied 18 rats prepared with jugular vein catheters. the following agents were administered intravenously to groups of four rats for 6 hours: 1 ml/h (control) crystalloid solution; 1-microgram/kg bolus then 1 microgram/kg per hour of octreotide; and 5 micrograms/kg per hour of cerulein; also, in a fourth group of six rats, octreotide and cerulein were administered simultaneously. at the end of experiments, blood was drawn for plasma amylase determinations; rats were killed and pancreata were examined. supramaximal cerulein administration to conscious rats induced hyperamylasemia and edematous pancreatitis, confirming previous observations; in both groups of rats receiving cerulein, there was prominent interstitial edema, acinar vacuolization, and mild-to-moderate acute inflammation. while octreotide pretreatment of rats with cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis was associated with a lesser increase of wet pancreas weight and plasma amylase concentration, there was little overall benefit of octreotide pretreatment in this form of experimental acute pancreatitis.
high grade dysplasia of the gastric mucosa: a marker for gastric carcinoma. the natural history of gastric epithelial dysplasia and its relation to gastric cancer are ill defined. a consecutive series of 40 patients with an initial diagnosis of gastric epithelial dysplasia based on examination of endoscopic biopsies has been reviewed to determine the clinical outcome and to evaluate a two tier histological grading system as a predictor of the risk of cancer. on review, only 20 of the 40 patients were considered to have true dysplasia: seven patients had low grade dysplasia and 13 had high grade dysplasia. of the 13 patients with high grade dysplasia, 11 (85%) were found to have gastric cancer within 15 months. of the 10 patients with high grade dysplasia who underwent gastrectomy, six were found to have early gastric cancer, three had cancer invading into the muscularis propria, and none had lymph node metastases. high grade dysplasia is thus a marker of gastric cancer. moreover, the cancers associated with high grade dysplasia are usually pathologically favourable and curable. the finding, by an experienced pathologist, of high grade dysplasia in two separate sets of endoscopic biopsies is therefore an indication for radical surgical treatment, provided that the patient's age and general condition permit such an approach.
patency rate of implantable devices during long-term intraarterial chemotherapy. intraarterial implantable drug delivery systems have been considered as an alternative method for treating patients with unresectable liver malignancies. however, catheter problems with external implanted devices have resulted in limited application of chemotherapy. the introduction of subcutaneous devices offers an opportunity for long-term locoregional chemotherapy. twelve external intraarterial catheters were implanted into 12 patients and 52 subcutaneously placed devices into 51 patients, all with various hepatic malignancies. retrospective analyses comparing those two intraarterial systems were conducted taking into account the function and complication rate (hepatic artery thrombosis, infection, leaking, hemorrhage, and dislocation). the follow-up time for the external system was two to eight months (median five weeks), the thrombosis rate 33.3%, and the infection rate 25%. one instance of severe bleeding from the hepatic artery occurred during chemotherapy. one catheter dislocated. for the subcutaneously implanted intraarterial devices the follow-up time was five to forty-one months (median sixteen months), the thrombotic complication rate 17.3%, and the infection rate 7.6% (all patients with simultaneous bowel surgery). catheter dislocation one year later required reimplantation; in 1 patient therapy had to be discontinued because of a catheter leak. the overall function rate was 71.3% with a median follow-up time of eight months. anticoagulation therapy for subcutaneously implanted devices starting from the beginning of intraarterial chemotherapy is recommended to achieve long-term patency. no implantation should be preformed simultaneously with bowel surgery. the subcutaneously placed intraarterial devices had a higher function rate and were available for a longer period as compared with external implanted catheters.
widespread inflammatory response to osteoblastoma: the flare phenomenon. a case of vertebral osteoblastoma caused a diffuse, reactive inflammatory infiltrate in two vertebrae, adjacent ribs, and the paraspinous soft tissues. the authors call this the flare phenomenon. on magnetic resonance images the diffuse inflammatory response caused a misleading appearance that simulated a malignant process (lymphoma or ewing sarcoma). a computed tomographic myelogram was diagnostic.
a clinical trial of allopurinol (zyloric) for myocardial protection. this study explored myocardial protective effects of allopurinol at various doses. ninety patients undergoing coronary artery bypass or repair or replacement of cardiac valves were divided into three groups of 30 patients each in accordance with the amount of allopurinol administered to patients in each group. patients in group i received no allopurinol, those in group ii received low-dose allopurinol (total dose 1200 mg), and those in group iii received high-dose allopurinol (total dose 2400 mg). aspartate aminotransferase, cardiac isoenzyme of creatine kinase, and lactic dehydrogenase levels were measured up to 5 days after operation. concentrations of allopurinol and oxypurinol were also measured before initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass and at the start and at the end of aortic crossclamping. postoperative aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase 1 plus lactate dehydrogenase 2 levels in group iii were significantly lower than those in groups i and ii. aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase 1 plus lactate dehydrogenase 2 levels in group ii were lower than those in group i, without statistically significant differences. plasma oxypurinol concentrations were significantly higher in group iii than in group ii. it was concluded that allopurinol had resultant high myocardial protective effects in dose-related fashion, but its effect might be attributed to oxypurinol levels formed by its degradation.
role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation in persons less than 65 years of age. the role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation (af) was assessed in a consecutive series of 98 patients (75 men) aged less than 65 years. in addition to etiologic assessment using clinical and laboratory methods and echocardiography, the patients' drinking habits were evaluated by recording the amount of alcohol used during the week preceding af, by responses to the cage (cut, annoying, guilt, eye; see below) questionnaire (a screening test for alcohol abuse) and by selected laboratory tests. two groups of control subjects were studied: 98 sex- and age-matched patients admitted to the emergency ward for acute illnesses, and 50 subjects selected randomly from the local out-of-hospital population. the mean alcohol consumption among men during the study week was 186 g (median 45 g; range 0 to 2,100 g) among patients, whereas among male hospital and population control subjects it was 86 g (30 g; 0 to 1,050 g) and 94 g (35 g; 0 to 630 g), respectively. when the weekly alcohol consumption was analyzed in 3 categories (0; 1 to 210 g; greater than 210 g), there was a significant difference between af cases and hospital control patients (p = 0.03), but not between af cases and population control subjects. multivariate analysis of data of af cases and population control subjects showed that alcohol intake and a positive response to 1 or more of the cage questions were independently related to af in men. other independent risk factors were the presence of heart disease, low serum potassium and lack of sleep or experience of excess psychologic stress, or both.
left ventricular asynchrony in patients with pulmonary hypertension. left ventricular regional wall motion was evaluated in 11 patients with pulmonary hypertension and 18 control subjects. all 11 patients had secondary pulmonary hypertension and less than 20% measured diameter stenosis in any vessel. this study utilizes a video-intensity-based frame-by-frame computerized technique. all pulmonary hypertensive patients showed early diastolic asynchrony in the anterior or apical regions that lasted 100-200 ms. the size of the abnormal area varied from 2 to 20% of the ventricular silhouette. four patients also showed systolic abnormalities. no abnormalities were detected in the control group. the cause of the asynchrony detected in pulmonary hypertension is probably due to interventricular interaction caused by pressure gradients across the septum.
surgical repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect. thirty-one patients underwent repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect (vsd) from 1980 to 1989. all patients were in new york heart association functional class iv, and 15 of them were in cardiogenic shock when operated on. coronary arteriography was performed in all patients before surgery: nine had one-vessel, 11 had two-vessel, and 11 had three-vessel disease. the vsd was anterior in 15 patients and posterior in 16. the operative technique evolved over the years from a fairly extensive infarctectomy and reconstruction of the septum and right and left ventricular walls with a double dacron patch, to minimal or no infarctectomy and closure of the vsd by excluding the infarcted muscle from the left ventricular cavity. this is accomplished by suturing a single patch of bovine pericardium to healthy endocardium surrounding the infarcted muscle. the right ventricle is left intact. overall mortality was 10%, with three operative deaths. all deaths occurred in patients in cardiogenic shock who had three-vessel coronary artery disease. thus, the mortality for patients in shock was 20%, and the mortality for patients with three-vessel disease was 27%. the operative mortality for patients with posterior vsd was twice as high as in patients with anterior vsd. however, univariate analysis of various clinical, hemodynamic, and operative variables indicated that only three-vessel disease was predictive of operative mortality. because the number of patients was small and the overall operative mortality relatively low, the results of this analysis may not be valid.
mucosal injury and gamma-irradiation produce persistent gastric ulcers in the rabbit. evaluation of antiulcer drug binding to experimental ulcer sites. a method producing persistent gastric ulcers in the rhesus monkey by combined mucosal injury and gamma-irradiation was modified and evaluated in the rabbit. gamma-irradiation (800-1000 cgy) immediately after removal of 2-mm-diameter sections of antral mucosa resulted in ulcer craters 5-7 days later. ulcer sites were characterized by loss of the mucosa, muscularis mucosa, and much of the submucosa. the exposed submucosa was coated with fibrin and necrotic debris infiltrated with heterophils, the rabbit equivalent of neutrophils. these ulcers strongly resemble human chronic gastric ulcers. binding of carafate (sucralfate; marion laboratories, inc., kansas city, mo) and maalox (magnesia-alumina oral suspension; wm. h. rorer, inc., ft. washington, pa) to ulcer and nearby nonulcer sites in the antrum was assessed 1 hour after drug dosing. drug binding was determined by aluminum quantitation of stomach wall punch biopsies at necropsy. both drugs significantly increased aluminum bound to the stomach wall compared with vehicle treatment. significantly more antiulcer drug was bound to ulcer sites than to nearby nonulcer sites only after sucralfate administration. this model of persistent gastric ulcer should be useful to further study gastric ulcer pathogenesis and treatment.
classification of endometrial cells on cervical cytology. one hundred eighty-eight women who had endometrial cells on cervical cytologic specimens during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period were studied retrospectively. each had undergone hysterectomy or endometrial biopsy within 12 months of the original smear. the endometrial cells were classified as typical, atypical, or suspicious for carcinoma. among premenopausal subjects, three of 57 with typical cells had endometrial hyperplasia, one of two with atypical cells had endometrial polyps, and both with cells suspicious for carcinoma had endometrial carcinoma. in the postmenopausal group, ten (13.5%) of 74 with typical endometrial cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma, and five (22.7%) of 22 with atypical cells and 24 77.4%) of 31 patients with suspicious cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma. the present findings and a review of the pertinent literature demonstrate that the classification system used is helpful in predicting the risk for endometrial disease in patients with endometrial cells seen on cervical cytologic smears during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period.
kenneth mckenzie, harvey cushing, and the early neurosurgical treatment of spasmodic torticollis. in 1923, dr. kenneth mckenzie trained at the peter bent brigham hospital under dr. harvey cushing. at that time, a patient with spasmodic torticollis came to cushing and was treated with an innovative operation for this disorder with good results. this case sparked an interest in dr. mckenzie, who published the case 1 year later. in reviewing the surgical histories from the peter bent brigham hospital, we have found the original records of this well-documented case. the record includes postoperative drawings of the intraoperative field by dr. cushing, a sketch by dr. mckenzie illustrating the postoperative sensory examination, and pre- and postoperative photographs of the patient.
thrombectomy for late graft limb occlusion: our experience in 182 consecutive cases. late occlusion of an aortofemoral bypass graft is usually caused by fibrointimal hyperplasia or progressive atherosclerosis. several surgical approaches have been advocated in order to minimize the operative risk, to correct the impaired inflow and to provide a satisfactory outflow. in the last 16 years, in the institute of vascular surgery and angiology of the university of milan, we have operated upon 182 consecutive thrombosed grafts. inflow was restored by performing a graft limb thrombectomy using a fogarty balloon catheter and simultaneously employing an endarterectomy ring stripper to dislodge tenaciously adherent fibrinous material and thrombotic plug. as the superficial femoral artery was generally occluded, usually a good outflow was achieved by profundaplasty in 101 cases (55.5%) or direct bypass (interposition graft), to a more distal segment of the profunda femoris artery in 55 cases (30.2%). concomitant popliteal or tibial revascularization was done in the remaining 26 cases (14.3%) when pre-operative or intra-operative findings suggested an inadequate collateral network through the profunda femoris artery. early re-occlusion, which occurred in 14 cases (7.6%), generally due to insufficient outflow, was corrected by additional intervention in 7 cases (3.8%), while 7 legs were amputated for extensive atherosclerotic disease. six patients died giving a mortality rate of 3.3%. this low rate in a high risk population is probably related to our policy of operating under loco-regional anaesthesia. long term results, with a patency rate of 62.0% at 3 years and 60.2% at 5 years (life table method), prove that this operation is a durable procedure for correction of graft limb thrombosis.
long-term survival patients with acute and severe renal failure due to multiple myeloma. we selected 37 cases, followed-up for more than 36 months or until death, from a series of 45 patients affected by acute renal failure due to multiple myeloma in order to identify the parameters that could allow the outcome to be predicted. the patients were allocated to group 1, consisting of 27 patients who died within one year and to group 2, consisting of 10 patients who survived for more than 36 months. renal failure was severe enough to require dialysis in 28 patients, 16 of whom were oliguric. renal biopsy was performed in 23 cases, whereas light chain isoelectric point and serum beta 2-microglobulin levels were evaluated in each patient. all the patients underwent chemotherapy, which was associated with plasma exchange in 16 patients. statistical analysis of the potential prognostic factors in the 2 groups showed that the incidence of hypercalcemia, infection, irreversible renal failure and severe tubulo-interstitial damage was significantly higher in group 1. sex, tumor load, severity of renal failure and light chain isoelectric point had no prognostic significance. finally, the number of patients treated by plasma exchange was significantly higher in group 2. our results underline the prognostic role of both hypercalcemia and infection and justify aggressive treatment consisting of chemotherapy, plasma exchange and dialysis, even in cases of severe renal failure and high tumor load.
the impact of the u.s. preventive services task force guidelines on cancer screening: perspective from the national cancer institute. the u.s. preventive services task force evaluated the medical literature, utilizing strict criteria to judge the merits of experimental trials designed to show benefit in screening for cancer. for individuals at normal risk, the task force was not able to make recommendations for or against screening for colorectal, prostate, skin, oral, or testicular cancers. only one physical-examination cancer-screening procedure has ever been tested in a randomized trial. during the past 27 years, the national cancer institute (nci) has funded six randomized screening trials. thus far, only one has shown a decrease in mortality. recognizing the limitations of such trials, the nci published "working guidelines for early cancer detection." designed for the practicing physician, these guidelines were based upon the best available evidence and on the judgment of representatives of medical professional organizations.
computed tomography for evaluation of puerperal infections. pelvic computed tomography was used to evaluate 74 women with persistent puerperal infection. there was at least one abnormal roentgenographic finding in 57, and these are correlated with clinical and surgical findings. in 16 women, a palpable pelvic mass was seen on tomography, however, masses not appreciated clinically were visualized in another 29 women, and in five, a clinically palpable mass was not visualized by tomography. in 12 women who had a normal pelvic examination, septic pelvic thrombophlebitis was diagnosed by tomography. over-all, there was poor correlation with roentgenographic findings and uterine incisional necrosis and dehiscence. we conclude that pelvic tomography is useful to evaluate some women with persistent puerperal infection, but that these studies must be correlated with clinical findings.
dysphagia in patients with the post-polio syndrome background and methods. dysphagia may develop in some patients many years after an attack of acute paralytic poliomyelitis. to identify clinical or subclinical signs of oropharyngeal dysfunction, we examined 32 patients (mean age, 48.9 years) with the post-polio syndrome (defined by new weakness in the limbs). of the 32 patients, 14 had symptoms of new swallowing difficulties, and 18 were asymptomatic in this respect; 12 had a history of bulbar involvement during acute poliomyelitis. swallowing function was assessed objectively by ultrasonography, videofluoroscopy, and an oral motor index score for 10 components of oral function. results. all but 1 of the 32 patients, regardless of whether they had new symptoms or previous bulbar involvement, had some abnormality on detailed testing of oropharyngeal function; only 2 patients had any signs of aspiration. the mean oral motor index score (a quantitative measure of oral sensorimotor function) in the patients was higher than that in age-matched normal subjects (p less than 0.001). videofluoroscopy showed abnormalities of varying severity, including unilateral bolus transport through the pharynx, pooling in the valleculae or pyriform sinuses, delayed pharyngeal constriction, and impaired tongue movements. on ultrasonography, the mean (+/- sd) duration of wet swallows was significantly longer in the symptomatic patients than in the asymptomatic patients (2.67 +/- 0.70 vs. 1.65 +/- 0.42 seconds). the four patients who were reexamined two years later had objective signs of worsening oropharyngeal function and corresponding new symptoms. conclusions. in patients with the post-polio syndrome, the bulbar muscles often have clinical or subclinical signs of dysfunction. these abnormalities suggest that in bulbar neurons there is a slowly progressive deterioration similar to that in the muscles of the limbs.
nursing home patients transferred by ambulance to a va emergency department. nursing home residents are frequently transferred to hospital emergency departments. delayed transfer may lead to poor outcomes. however, inappropriate transfer of the frail elderly may cause social and financial problems. we prospectively evaluated 221 consecutive ambulance transfers from community nursing homes to a va emergency department. the objectives of the study were to describe the process and outcomes of transferred patients and to determine if alternative interventions were feasible. the results indicate that the problems of nearly half the study group could have been treated at the nursing home by a visiting physician with minimal medical equipment. those admitted to the hospital (52%) were seriously ill, had prolonged lengths of stay (23.6 days), and had a high mortality rate (11%). complex issues of physician reimbursement, proprietary nursing home budgeting, and day-to-day expediency appear to be involved in decisions to transport patients by ambulance to va emergency departments.
genetic mapping of "lubag" (x-linked dystonia-parkinsonism) in a filipino kindred to the pericentromeric region of the x chromosome. "lubag" is an x-linked disorder causing dystonia and parkinsonism that has only been described in families from the philippines, principally from the island of panay. we have established linkage between the disease phenotype "lubag" and dna markers which span the xp11.22-xq21.3 region by using a large filipino family with 8 affected men in three generations. these dna markers define an interval of about 20 centimorgans in the pericentromeric region of the x chromosome as the most likely site of the disease locus xdpd (x-linked dystonia-parkinsonism). xdpd has a maximum multipoint log likelihood ratio score (zmax) of about 4.6 over the interval from xq12 to xq21.31 (dxs159-dxys1x). the co-occurrence of dystonia and parkinsonism in lubag and in other known disorders suggests there may be a common pathogenetic mechanism. identification of the genetic defect in this family may provide an important clue toward understanding the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of both dystonia and parkinsonism.
early carcinoma of the gallbladder: macroscopic features and us findings. to facilitate early detection of carcinoma of the gallbladder, a comparative study of macroscopic forms and ultrasonographic (us) features of stage i (tnm staging system) gallbladder cancer was carried out retrospectively in 71 cases of such carcinomas that were resected surgically. macroscopic forms of the lesions were classified into four types: pedunculated (eight cases), sessile (15 cases), superficial raised (25 cases), and flat (23 cases). among 71 cases, only 20 were diagnosed preoperatively by means of us. us patterns of the lesions were also classified into four types: fungating mass, lumen filling, smooth raised, and thickening of mucosa. us features corresponded well to the macroscopic forms. no flat lesion was identified preoperatively. for early detection of carcinoma of the gallbladder, it seemed essential to pay careful attention to mild mucosal change, as more than 50% of early cancers did not show apparently protruding lesions.
renal transplant pyelocaliectasis: role of duplex doppler us in evaluation. to distinguish the obstructed from the nonobstructed dilated collecting system of transplanted kidneys without interventional diagnostic measures, the authors prospectively evaluated duplex doppler analysis (determination of resistive index [ri]) in 35 renal transplant patients with pyelocaliectasis. proof of the presence or absence of obstruction was obtained at interventional procedures in 18 patients and at clinical follow-up in 17. thirteen kidneys were obstructed (mean ri, .81 +/- .06), while 22 had nonobstructive dilatation (mean ri, .66 +/- .07). the ri difference was statistically significant (p less than or equal to .01). of 21 kidneys with a normal ri, only two had obstruction. in both of these, the obstruction was associated with a significant peritransplant collection of fluid due to a ureteral leak. in the seven obstructed transplanted kidneys with follow-up, the mean ri was .82 +/- .06 before nephrostomy and .67 +/- .05 after nephrostomy. obstruction was a common cause of an elevated ri (greater than or equal to .75). other causes of transplant dysfunction can be associated with an elevated ri and nonobstructed dilatation. more important, a normal ri should strongly argue against obstruction unless a ureteral leak is also present.
popliteal artery occlusion caused by cystic adventitial disease: successful treatment by urokinase followed by nonresectional cystotomy. preoperative diagnosis of an occluded popliteal artery caused by cystic adventitial disease allowed use of urokinase to successfully dissolve secondary thrombosis. subsequent non-resectional adventitial cystotomy and evacuation of cyst contents allowed lasting restoration of a patent arterial lumen and return of normal distal pulses. this nongrafting technique may serve as a model for future patients with occluded arteries caused by this condition.
thromboxane synthetase inhibition decreases polymorphonuclear leukocyte activation following hindlimb ischemia. ischemia of the lower extremity has been shown to cause pulmonary leukostasis and increased pulmonary artery pressure. thromboxane (tx) has been implicated as a mediator in this process. the effect of oky-046, a tx synthetase inhibitor, on polymorphonuclear leukocyte (pmn) production of superoxide anion (o2-) as determined by ferricytochrome reduction was examined. fourteen dogs were subjected to 6 hours of bilateral gracilis muscle ischemia followed by 1 hour of reperfusion. o2- production from resting pmns and pmns stimulated with opsonized zymosan (oz, 0.1 mg/ml) was measured prior to ischemia or drug treatment (baseline), and following reperfusion in both treated (n = 7) and control groups (n = 7). serum tx levels were measured using a radioimmunoassay. following reperfusion, tx levels in the treated group were decreased as compared with the control group (18 +/- 2 pg/ml vs. 72 +/- 26 pg/ml, p less than 0.05). superoxide production by both resting and stimulated pmns was also decreased in the treated group; from 0.98 +/- 0.16 nmol to 0.43 +/- 0.12 nmol o2- in the resting state (p less than 0.05) and from 13.3 +/- 1.5 nmol to 9.0 +/- 1.1 nmol o2- after stimulation (p less than 0.005). o2- production was increased in the control group following reperfusion as compared with baseline samples, and this increase was attenuated by treatment with oky-046. tx synthetase inhibition decreases activation of pmns following hindlimb ischemia.
intravascular ultrasound imaging of an acute dissecting aortic aneurysm: a case report. a case of acute dissecting aortic aneurysm is described in which intravascular ultrasonography was used at the time of aortography to produce real-time, 360 degree cross-sectional images of the aorta. the transmural vessel morphology visualized by this new catheter-based technology allowed confirmation of the diagnosis and identification of distal extension to the aortic bifurcation. the case demonstrates the unique potential of this modality in diagnosis and possible therapy in vascular diseases.
interruption of critical aortoiliac collateral circulation during nonvascular operations: a cause of acute limb-threatening ischemia. in patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease interruption of critical collaterals during another nonvascular or cardiac operation may threaten limb viability. this occurred in four patients whose limb-threatening ischemia was precipitated by radical cystectomy with bilateral hypogastric artery ligation, left colon resection, or coronary artery revascularizations by means of the internal mammary artery. important collateral pathways, the interruption of which may account for this phenomenon, are detailed, and approaches are outlined for prevention and management of acute ischemia in this setting.
the epidemiologic necropsy for abdominal aortic aneurysm. the epidemiologic necropsy measures the occurrence of unsuspected disease through the examination of necropsy records. the estimates of unsuspected disease should approximate what occurs in the living population. the necropsy records of the university of kansas medical center (kansas city) from 1950 to 1984 were examined for the occurrence rate of abdominal aortic aneurysms. each adult patient was categorized as (1) without abdominal aortic aneurysm, (2) abdominal aortic aneurysm discovered as a necropsy surprise, or (3) abdominal aortic aneurysm diagnosed or suspected during life. necropsy detection rates of unsuspected abdominal aortic aneurysms were compared with those found in five published screening surveys. the necropsy detection rate in men was 81 (0.019) of 4155 and was 28 (0.009) of 3142 in women, a difference that was statistically significant. when the necropsy series was adjusted to reflect the same demographic composition as the screening surveys, the results from necropsy and screening were statistically similar. in particular, two surveys from the united kingdom showed screening detection rates among white men of 0.072 compared with a necropsy detection rate of 0.058. these results further support the use of the epidemiologic necropsy as a research tool for estimating the reservoir of disease in the population.
why does somatostatin cause gallstones? long-term administration of the somatostatin analogue, octreotide, is complicated by gallstone formation. somatostatin is known to inhibit hepatic bile secretion and gallbladder emptying. however, the effect of octreotide on gallbladder bile composition remains unknown. therefore, we tested the hypothesis that octretide would alter hepatic bile composition and cause gallbladder stasis, thereby increasing gallbladder bile solute concentrations. fourteen control prairie dogs received daily saline injections, whereas 10 animals received 1 micrograms of octreotide subcutaneously three times per day for 5 days. cholecystectomy and common bile duct cannulation were then performed. octreotide increased hepatic bile concentrations of bilirubin monoglucuronide (p less than 0.05), total bilirubin (p less than 0.05), and total protein (p less than 0.01). rsa, an index of gallbladder stasis, was decreased (p less than 0.01) in the octreotide group. gallbladder bile total calcium (p less than 0.05), bilirubin monoglucuronide (p less than 0.05), total bilirubin (p less than 0.01), total protein (p less than 0.05), and total lipids (p less than 0.05) were increased in the octreotide group. animals receiving octreotide also had decreased hepatic (p less than 0.05) and gallbladder (p less than 0.001) bile ph. no differences in cholesterol saturation index were observed. these data suggest that in the prairie dog, octreotide (1) alters hepatic bile composition, (2) causes gallbladder stasis, and (3) increases gallbladder bile calcium, bilirubin, protein, lipid, and hydrogen ion concentrations. we conclude that octreotide causes alterations in gallbladder bile composition that increase the likelihood of cholesterol and calcium bilirubinate precipitation.
normal and diffusely abnormal myocardium in humans: functional and metabolic characterization with p-31 mr spectroscopy and cine mr imaging. the current study tested the concept that cine magnetic resonance (mr) imaging and phosphorus-31 mr spectroscopy might be used to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the functional and metabolic status of the myocardium in humans. thirteen patients with congestive cardiomyopathy and eight healthy volunteers were imaged at 1.5 t with the one-dimensional chemical shift imaging technique for localization of p-31 mr spectroscopy and an electrocardiographically referenced gradient refocused sequence for imaging of the heart. prominent peaks in the pde and pme regions were observed in cardiomyopathic patients, but only the former peak was measured. the pcr/beta-atp peak ratio was not significantly lower in cardiomyopathic patients compared with healthy subjects (1.51 +/- 0.08 vs 1.54 +/- 0.04). the ratios of pde/pcr (0.80 +/- 0.07 vs 0.54 +/- 0.10) (p less than or equal to .01) and pde/beta-atp (1.19 +/- 0.10 vs 0.84 +/- 0.08) (p less than or equal to .05) were significantly higher in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy compared with healthy volunteers. left ventricular systolic wall thickening was significantly lower and left ventricular peak and end-systolic wall stress and mass were significantly higher in cardiomyopathic patients compared with healthy volunteers. thus, localized, gated p-31 mr spectroscopy combined with cine mr imaging allowed identification of both abnormal myocardial phosphate metabolism and abnormal ventricular function. while this study suggests that increased myocardial pdes may be a marker for abnormal myocardium, the sensitivity and specificity of this marker need to be further evaluated.
predictive value of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium as a clinical marker for familial adenomatous polyposis. one hundred forty-eight members of 53 kindreds with familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) were examined for congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (chrpe) and extracolonic manifestations (ecm) to assess the value of chrpe as a predictive marker for fap. based on eye examination results, the families were divided into 2 groups. in a first group of 34 families, all 61 members diagnosed as having polyps and 13 of the 33 patients at risk had 4 or more lesions distributed in both eyes. by contrast, in a second group of 18 families, all 32 polyposis patients and all 18 members at risk had less than 4 lesions. extra-colonic manifestations were present in 26 of 34 families in the first group and in 11 of 18 families in the second group. data on one family with ambiguous ancestry were reviewed separately. the existence of 4 or more chrpe lesions distributed in both eyes seems to be a congenital marker for fap, present in 65.4 percent of families. when present in a family: 1) it is found in all diagnosed patients in that family, 2) can therefore be considered predictive for the development of polyps in other family members who carry the trait, and 3) if confirmed by longer follow-up, may possibly preclude members without the trait from further evaluation and surveillance.
visually evoked potentials and electroretinography in neurologic evaluation. electrophysiologic testing of the visual system requires primarily the erg and the vep. the flash electroretinogram provides information about the outer retina only. the pattern electroretinogram is derived from both the outer retina and the innermost retinal layers including the ganglion cell layer. the vep is based on electrical information recorded from the visual cortex in response to stimulation of the retina. thus, the integrity of the entire visual pathway can be tested. localizing ability of the vep is limited. since the visual cortex is heavily weighted by representation of the central retina, peripheral lesions, including those producing peripheral visual field abnormalities that do not impinge upon central fixation, may produce relatively little disturbance of the vep. as with most tests, electrophysiologic studies of the visual system must be placed in context of the entire examination, including the patient's history and neurologic and especially neuro-ophthalmologic evaluation. electrophysiologic testing has three main uses in neurology. pattern-reversal veps may be useful in detecting hidden visual loss in multiple sclerosis; veps and ergs can distinguish function from organic visual loss; and veps and ergs can be useful in the diagnosis of visual loss in nonverbal patients, especially in children.
involvement of the central nervous system in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy: a clinical, electrophysiological and magnetic resonance imaging study. in a consecutive series of 30 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (cidp) minor clinical evidence of cns involvement was found in five. cranial magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was performed in 28 and revealed abnormalities consistent with demyelination in nine patients aged less than 50 years and abnormalities in five aged 50 years or over. measurements of central motor conduction time (cmct) were obtained in 18 and showed unilateral or bilateral abnormalities in six. it is concluded that subclinical evidence of central nervous system (cns) involvement is common, at least in patients with cidp in the united kingdom, but that clinically evident signs of cns disease are infrequent. the association of a multiple sclerosis-like syndrome with cidp is rare.
continuing care for cancer pain relief with oral morphine solution. one-year experience in a regional cancer center. this report is a prospective study of 223 patients with intractable cancer pain who were offered continuing care during the year 1988 at the pain relief unit, kidwai memorial institute of oncology, bangalore, india, with a minimum follow-up of 4 months and a maximum follow-up of 16 months. a high percentage of pain relief was attained within a mean duration of 4 days, which on follow-up was maintained at a steady level in most patients (91.1%). oral morphine could not be continued in three patients because of vomiting. the main side effects noticed were nausea and vomiting, itching, and constipation. at any time during the first 140 days, only 30% of patients had side effects and appropriate medication successfully managed these side effects. during the rest of the study period, the side effects were minimal. oral morphine used with proper adjuncts offers the best pain palliation in most patients, with minimal side effects.
relationship of uptake of technetium-99m(sn)-n-pyridoxyl-5-methyltryptophan by hepatocellular carcinoma to prognosis the relationship of technetium-99m(sn)-n-pyridoxyl-5-methyltryptophan (99mtc-pmt) uptake by hepatic tumors to survival was studied in 162 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). the median survival of 82 patients in whom hepatic tumors showed increased uptake in delayed 99mtc-pmt imaging was 1013 days, which was significantly longer than the survival time of 398.5 days of 80 patients in whom hepatic tumors did not show increased uptake of radioactivity (p less than 0.002). the relationship between the ability of hepatic tumors to take up 99mtc-pmt and survival was also analyzed in patients with hcc showing filling defects in 99mtc-colloid liver images and, in relation to the therapy, serum values of bilirubin and alpha-fetoprotein. results indicated that the degree of 99mtc-pmt uptake by hepatic tumors is closely correlated with the prognosis of patients with hcc.
natural history and cardiac manifestations of homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. forty-nine patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (diagnosed on the basis of family history, xanthomatosis, total serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein receptor status) were studied over a period of 13 years, and underwent cardiovascular assessment. eleven died, nine of myocardial infarction. seven underwent coronary artery bypass, and another five had surgery to relieve supravalvular and valvular aortic stenosis. a distinctive pattern of disease was noted. coronary ostial stenosis (four patients) and aortic root stenosis (six patients), both consequences of aortic root cholesterol deposition, were the typical manifestations of heart disease in childhood and adolescence. adults developed severe coronary artery disease with a high incidence of main stem lesions (four of five patients). surgery provided effective treatment for coronary artery disease and aortic outflow tract stenosis. overall survival appeared to be better than reported in other studies which may reflect the 'receptor-defective' status of this group of patients.
endoscopic control of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. it has been estimated that gastrointestinal (gi) bleeding occurs in more than 100,000 patients with peptic ulcer disease each year. in 75-80% of the cases, bleeding will be self-limited. a major predictor of persistent or recurrent bleeding is the magnitude of blood loss before the initial evaluation. endoscopy has an important role in the evaluation of the patient with suspected or presumed upper gi bleeding. active bleeding at the time of the endoscopy correlates with the more likely probability of persistent bleeding, which carries a higher morbidity and mortality. in addition, there has been continued interest in the finding of a visible vessel. although there is some controversy as to what a visible vessel actually is and how closely observations will agree about its recognition, there is general agreement that it is an important endoscopic finding and that it carries a high likelihood of rebleeding. in addition to the finding of a visible vessel, many endoscopists feel that ulcers found in the posterior-inferior wall of the duodenal bulb and high on the lesser curve of the stomach should be considered in a separate category. owing to their proximity to large vessels, some feel that endoscopic management carries a greater risk because of the possibility of inducing bleeding. a wide variety of endoscopic approaches are available for the therapy of upper gi bleeding. it is convenient to divide these therapies into four categories: (a) topical, (b) injection, (c) mechanical, and (d) thermal. endoscopic therapy for bleeding ulcers has generally been performed with a high degree of safety.
ondansetron compared with high-dose metoclopramide in prophylaxis of acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, crossover study. objective: to compare the efficacy and side effects of ondansetron with those of high-dose metoclopramide in treating acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. design: randomized, double-blind, crossover trial. setting: conducted at two university hospitals, a cancer institute, and six community hospitals. patients: of 125 patients, 95 were evaluable for the acute phase and 79 for the delayed phase. major reasons for not being evaluable were no second course (14 patients), protocol violation (5 patients), and change in cisplatin dose (3 patients) for the acute phase, and rescue medication on day 1 (7 patients), protocol violation (3 patients), and inadequate data (4 patients) for the delayed phase. interventions: all patients received cisplatin, 50 to 100 mg/m2 body surface area (median, 75 mg/m2); none had previously received chemotherapy. thirty minutes before the cisplatin administration, ondansetron was given intravenously over 15 minutes, at a loading dose of 8 mg followed by a continuous infusion of 1 mg/h for 24 hours. metoclopramide was given at a loading dose of 3 mg/kg body weight, followed by a continuous infusion for 8 hours (4 mg/kg). for the delayed phase (days 2 through 6), the first oral dose was given as soon as the infusion was completed; the oral dose consisted of either metoclopramide, 20 mg three times daily, or ondansetron, 8 mg three times daily for another 5 days. measurements and main results: in the acute phase, a major or complete response was seen in 72% of the ondansetron-treated and 41% of the metoclopramide-treated patients (p less than 0.001). nausea was significantly better controlled among the ondansetron-treated patients (p = 0.04). in the delayed phase, no statistically significant difference was seen between ondansetron- and metoclopramide-treated patients. nausea was significantly better controlled with metoclopramide (p = 0.016). conclusions: ondansetron is significantly more effective than metoclopramide in preventing acute nausea and vomiting. in the delayed phase, the results of both drugs were disappointing, although metoclopramide's effect on delayed nausea was superior. patients preferred ondansetron.
vitamin e in gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion. to clarify the relationship among vitamin e, oxygen radicals, and lipid peroxidation in ischemia-reperfusion, we produced an experimental model of gastric mucosal injury in rats by ischemia-reperfusion with clamping of the celiac artery and measurements of the area of gastric erosion, thiobarbituric acid (tba)-reactive substances, and alpha-tocopherol in serum and gastric mucosa during ischemia-reperfusion. the area of gastric erosions and tba-reactive substances in gastric mucosa were significantly increased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion. the serum alpha-tocopherol-cholesterol ratio and gastric mucosal alpha-tocopherol were significantly decreased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion. on the other hand, in vitamin e-deficient rats, gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion was more severe than that in vitamin e-nondeficient rats. these results indicate that vitamin e is consumed in the process of lipid peroxidation induced by oxygen radicals in ischemia-reperfusion to prevent the development of tissue damage.
flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome. we report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye. this is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome, suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction.
normalization of ventilation/perfusion relationships after liver transplantation in patients with decompensated cirrhosis: evidence for a hepatopulmonary syndrome. to examine the effect of liver transplantation on the respiratory and cardiovascular functions, ventilation/perfusion relationships were determined by multiple inert gas elimination technique in six patients with end-stage liver disease 1 to 19 mo before and 2 to 6 mo after liver transplantation. cardiac output and pulmonary vascular pressures were measured after catheterization of the pulmonary artery. all patients had normal spirometry and chest x-ray films before transplantation. pao2 before transplantation was 78.8 +/- 7.4 mm hg (range = 51.8 to 102.8 mm hg). all patients had perfusion of poorly ventilated lung regions (low ventilation/perfusion relationships) varying from 3% to 19% of cardiac output (mean = 8.5% +/- 2.4% of cardiac output) and two patients had intrapulmonary shunting (3% and 20% of cardiac output). measured and calculated pao2 agreed closely, indicating absence of pulmonary diffusion abnormality, as well as of extrapulmonary shunting. after transplantation, pao2 normalized in all patients, and both shunting and low ventilation/perfusion relationships disappeared. cardiac output decreased from 9.1 +/- 1.4 to 6.6 +/- 0.5 l/min (p less than 0.05), and the pulmonary vascular resistance increased from 0.69 +/- 0.14 to 1.64 +/- 0.43 mm hg/l/min (p less than 0.05). the systemic vascular resistance also increased (before = 8.7 +/- 1.0; after = 15.3 +/- 1.1 mm hg/l/min; p less than 0.001). normalization of respiratory and cardiovascular alterations, after liver transplantation, in patients with end-stage liver disease indicates that these changes have a direct functional relationship to the diseased liver. it is hypothesized that this is part of a "hepatopulmonary syndrome,' which in similarity to the hepatorenal syndrome disappears with improved liver function.
increased sensitivity to endotoxemia by tissue necrosis. in this study the interaction of endotoxemia and ischemic organ injury was investigated in a rat model. animals received lipopolysaccharide to induce endotoxemia and were simultaneously subjected to renal ischemia. if only renal ischemia was induced, moderate azotemia occurred and all animals survived. lipopolysaccharide treatment caused neither renal failure nor death. however, rats with both endotoxemia and renal ischemia showed severe azotemia, and 50% of the animals died within 48 hours. the observed mortality rate is unlikely related to renal failure since animals subjected to bilateral nephrectomy did not die within 48 hours after treatment with lipopolysaccharide. to further exclude the role of renal failure in the enhanced effect of endotoxemia, experiments were performed in which ischemic kidneys were excised from littermates and were placed in the abdomens of lipopolysaccharide-treated animals. a similar effect was observed: 50% of the animals died within 48 hours. azotemia did not occur. since tumor necrosis factor (tnf) is an important cytokine involved in endotoxemia-induced morbidity and death, we studied the role of tnf in our model. plasma levels of tnf were increased during endotoxemia. concomitant renal ischemic injury did not influence the concentration of tnf. when animals were treated with recombinant tnf and were subsequently subjected to renal ischemic injury, again a 50% mortality was observed, a rate similar to that in lipopolysaccharide-treated animals. we conclude that the sensitivity to endotoxemia is enhanced by tissue necrosis and may lead to death in the experimental model used in this study.
arterial mechanical properties in dilated cardiomyopathy. aging and the response to nitroprusside. the effects of aging on arterial mechanical properties and the response to nitroprusside were examined in 25 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. high-fidelity pressures were recorded with a multisensor catheter. pulse wave velocity was determined between two sensors in the thoracic aorta. arterial compliance was determined by an analysis of the diastolic waveform and cardiac output. at baseline, despite a similar systemic vascular resistance, the pulsatile load (e.g., arterial compliance) and wave transmission characteristics (e.g., pulse wave velocity) were altered with aging. arterial compliance was reduced in older (greater than 50 yr, n = 8) versus younger (less than 35 yr, n = 8) patients (0.51 +/- 0.17 vs. 1.33 +/- 0.63 ml/mmhg, p less than 0.01) and intermediate in those 35-50 yr of age (n = 9, 0.72 +/- 0.40 ml/mmhg). there was a positive correlation between age and pulse wave velocity (r = +0.90). nitroprusside infusion decreased resistance, increased arterial compliance, and lowered pulse wave velocity in all groups. yet, advancing age was associated with a greater fall in wave velocity for a given fall in aortic pressure. the slope (k) of the relation between pulse wave velocity and aortic diastolic pressure progressively increased with age (0.01 +/- 0.03, 0.06 +/- 0.02, and 0.09 +/- 0.03 m/s-mmhg). multiple linear regression analysis revealed a significant relation between k and age. these data demonstrate that in older patients with dilated cardiomyopathy the left ventricle is coupled to an arterial circulation that has a greater pulsatile load, despite a similar steady load. furthermore, these age-related changes in the arterial system affect the hemodynamic response to pharmacologically-induced vasodilatation.
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap. part iii. a retrospective study. a retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed. the following were analyzed: age at time of operation, gender, physical status, diagnostic protocol, length of operation (length of total surgery) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap, length of postoperative hospital stay, length of total hospital stay, length of follow-up, speech results, complications, patient care, and medication. the result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age. the mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days, postoperative complications were minimal, and speech results were generally good.
pheochromocytoma and acute myocardial infarction. when a pheochromocytoma is manifested as an acute myocardial illness, diagnosis may be difficult to make. if the tumor is suspected early enough, a workup can be done while the complications of the myocardial illness are being controlled (as in our case). the tumor can then be expeditiously removed before any further problems develop. the case presented here underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a pheochromocytoma in any patient who has an unexpected myocardial event.
driving and epilepsy. a review and reappraisal driving and epilepsy is a problem that involves physicians as both care providers to patients and consultants to regulatory authorities. driving restrictions for people with seizure disorders are intended to ensure the public's safety, but such restrictions may unduly harm the welfare of many people with seizures. in the united states, all states now permit some people with epilepsy to drive. in general, only people whose seizures are adequately controlled are licensed to drive. adequate control has been judged principally by the seizure-free interval, but individual state standards widely vary. there is a trend toward greater liberalization of driving standards for people with seizure disorders, but the appropriateness and application of these standards continue to raise questions, as does the role physicians should have in the licensing process. our responsibilities to persons with disabilities and advances in our understanding of seizures and the nature of driving risks warrant a reappraisal of the current medical, legal, and social implications of driving and epilepsy.
helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma. serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks. this investigation examined the correlation between helicobacter pylori (hp) infection, as reflected in immunoglobulin g serum antibodies, and the risk of gastric cancer. serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks. the highest prevalence of hp infection, 93%, was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk, the residents of pasto, colombia. in the lower risk colombian city of cali, a 63% overall prevalence rate was found. both children and adults were sampled in new orleans, louisiana, where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites. the prevalence of hp infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults, 70% versus 43%, p = 0.0001. a higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children, 49% versus 32%, p = 0.01; however, an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals, regardless of race, which serve different socioeconomic groups. a prevalence rate of 54% was found at charity hospital compared with 24% (p = 0.0001) at children's hospital. our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions, known to influence gastric cancer risk, are also important determinants of hp infection.
direct visualization of ruptured chordae tendineae by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of ruptured chordae tendineae, 28 patients who had surgical therapy for pure mitral regurgitation were evaluated prospectively by conventional transthoracic and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. seventeen patients (group i) had ruptured chordae tendineae and 11 (group ii) had intact chordae tendineae. transthoracic echocardiography detected ruptured chordae tendineae in 6 patients from group i (sensitivity 35%) and flail leaflets in 11 patients from group i (sensitivity 65%). transesophageal echocardiography disclosed ruptured chordae tendineae in all 17 group i patients (sensitivity 100%); the sensitivity was significantly higher than that of transthoracic echocardiography. no abnormal chordal echoes were visualized in any patient from group ii by either transthoracic or transesophageal echocardiography (specificity 100%). transesophageal echocardiography is a highly sensitive method for detecting ruptured chordae tendineae and is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in establishing its diagnosis.
the significance of moderate and severe inflammation on class i papanicolaou smear the significance of a cytologic diagnosis of moderate and severe inflammation with a normal (class i) papanicolaou smear has not been addressed. a retrospective review of 596 consecutive cervical smears performed over 13 months revealed 85 women who had a class i cytologic smear with moderate to severe inflammation. seventy-eight patients had colposcopic examinations and were considered for this study. fifty-nine (75.6%) had cervical punch biopsies and/or endocervical biopsies. of the 78, 19 (24.4%) had cervical condylomata and nine (11.5%) had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. we conclude that class i cytologic smears with moderate to severe inflammation may be associated with findings of condylomata and cervical dysplasia.
fibrous skeleton and ventricular outflow tracts in double-outlet right ventricle. twenty-four hearts in which both great arteries arose from the right ventricle were studied to establish variations present within the fibrous skeleton and infundibular morphologies. variations were also noted in the location of the ventricular septal defect and measurements were obtained of the outlet septum and the circumferences of the arterial valves. completely muscular subarterial infundibulums were present in only 9 (37.5%) of the hearts, with varying degrees of fibrous continuity between the leaflets of the arterial and atrioventricular valves in the remainder. the aorta was rightward and posterior in 12 (50%) of the hearts, and subaortic and subpulmonary ventricular septal defects were present in equal numbers in this group. no subaortic defects were present when the aorta was side-by-side and right-sided. no subpulmonary defects were present in hearts with a posterior aorta. the mean ratio of 0.91 +/- 0.36 for the subpulmonary to subaortic length of the outlet septum was significantly less than the value of 1.54 +/- 0.41 noted previously in hearts with tetralogy of fallot (p less than 0.001).
treatment of pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis with rifampin. pruritus can be a debilitating symptom in patients with chronic cholestasis. based on previous reports of its efficacy, we evaluated the impact of rifampin on the pruritus associated with primary biliary cirrhosis. fourteen patients were included in a randomized, crossover study. after a 15-day washout period, subjects were followed for three weeks. during the first and third week, patients received 600 mg of rifampin or placebo; no treatment was administered during the second week. pruritus was subjectively scored on a scale from 0 to 100. with rifampin, pruritus disappeared in 11 patients and partially improved in three; with placebo, only two had a partial response (p less than 0.001). six patients with a prior poor or no response to cholestyramine improved with rifampin. no changes in biochemical tests or side effects were observed during this period. we conclude that short-term administration of rifampin relieves pruritus in primary biliary cirrhosis. when administered over a period of eight months in an open study, the relief of pruritus was maintained, while one individual developed an allergic reaction. rifampin appears to be a safe drug in the management of the pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis.
augmentation mammaplasty by means of the transrectus route. a new operative technique has been developed for augmentation mammaplasty. through an inframammary incision, the anterior rectus sheath is entered, and the pocket is dissected in an entirely submuscular plane. we have performed this procedure in 112 patients to date. complications have been few. the capsular contracture rate in 90 patients followed for greater than 1 year is 7 percent. the inframammary crease can be lowered using this technique, making mastopexy unnecessary in most patients with moderate ptosis.
recombinant epstein-barr virus with small rna (eber) genes deleted transforms lymphocytes and replicates in vitro. strains of epstein-barr virus (ebv) with deletions of the small rna (eber) genes were made by homologous recombination using the ebv p3hr-1 strain, which has undergone deletion of the essential transforming gene that encodes the ebv nuclear antigen, ebna-2, and a dna fragment that was wild type at the ebna-2 locus but from which the eber genes had been deleted. even though the eber and ebna-2 genes are separated by 40 kilobases, selection for transforming p3hr-1 recombinants that required a restored ebna-2 gene resulted in 20% cotransfer of the eber deletion. eber-deleted recombinants transformed primary b lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines (lcls), which were indistinguishable form lcls transformed by wild-type ebv in their proliferation, in latency-associated ebv gene expression, and in their permissiveness for ebv replication cycle gene expression. eber-deleted virus from infected lcl clones could infect and growth-transform primary b lymphocytes. these procedures should be applicable to the construction of other ebv recombinants within 40 kilobases of the ebna-2 gene. the eber-deleted ebv recombinants should be useful in further evaluating the role of ebers in ebv infection.
acquired retinal arteriovenous communications in occlusive disease of the carotid artery. retinal arteriovenous communications proximal to extensive areas of complete vascular closure developed in three patients with occlusive disease of the carotid arteries. in one case, the authors document the development of the arteriovenous communications through successive enlargement of small retinal vessels after progressive signs of retinal ischemia in the form of narrowed retinal arteries, venous dilation and beading, microaneurysms, retinal dot and blot hemorrhages, cotton-wool spots, and capillary nonperfusion. the development of arteriovenous communications in carotid occlusive disease has not been described previously.
cerebrospinal norepinephrine concentrations and the duration of epidural analgesia this study was performed to determine whether the addition of norepinephrine to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia in man. in addition, cerebrospinal fluid norepinephrine (ne) concentrations were measured. in the first part of the study, epidural catheters were inserted in 14 patients before herniotomy. mepivacaine, 1.5 per cent (0.35 ml.kg-1), was administered and norepinephrine (5 micrograms.ml-1) was added in seven patients. the duration of anaesthesia was prolonged from 54 +/- 11 min to 83 +/- 12 min (p less than 0.05) and csf ne concentrations increased from 68 +/- 12 pg.ml-1 to 336 +/- 85 pg.ml-1 in the ne group (p less than 0.01). in the second part, eight patients with herpetic neuralgia received epidural analgesia at the fourth to eighth thoracic interspace, using bupivacaine 0.25 per cent, with and without ne. the csf ne concentrations in this group were greater than in the surgical patients before operation and increased from 254 +/- 58 to 406 +/- 58 pg.ml-1 30 min after administration of bupivacaine with ne. the duration of pain relief was prolonged with ne. these results suggest that adding ne to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia. moreover, ne concentrations in surgical patients increased to levels similar to those found in patients suffering from herpetic analgesia. this suggests that the increase of csf ne in chronic pain states has an antinociceptive effect.
a controlled trial of early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. california collaborative treatment group. background. pneumocystis carinii pneumonia remains a common cause of serious morbidity and mortality in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). the extensive lung injury that accompanies pneumocystis-associated respiratory failure and the reports of clinical benefit from the use of adjunctive corticosteroids provided the rationale for this prospective multicenter trial. methods. a total of 333 patients with aids and pneumocystis pneumonia received standard treatment and were randomly assigned to receive either corticosteroids (beginning with the equivalent of 40 mg of prednisone twice daily) or no additional therapy. the primary end points in this unblinded trial were the occurrence of respiratory failure (hypoxemia ratio [partial pressure of arterial oxygen divided by fraction of inspired oxygen] less than 75, intubation, or death), death, and dose-limiting toxicity of the initial standard therapy. results. of the patients with confirmed or presumed pneumocystis pneumonia (n = 225 and n = 26, respectively), those assigned to treatment with corticosteroids had a lower cumulative risk at 31 days of respiratory failure (0.14 vs. 0.30, p = 0.004) and of death (0.11 vs. 0.23, p = 0.009), as well as a lower risk of death within 84 days (0.16 vs. 0.26, p = 0.026). the frequency of dose-limiting toxicity of the standard therapy was similar in the two treatment groups. intention-to-treat analyses of the entire cohort confirmed these findings. clinical benefit could not be demonstrated, however, for patients with mild disease (hypoxemia ratio, greater than 350), equivalent to a partial pressure of oxygen greater than 75 torr on room air. the patients assigned to corticosteroid treatment had an excess of localized herpetic lesions (26 percent vs. 15 percent, p = 0.04) but not of other infections or of neoplasms. conclusions. early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids reduces the risks of respiratory failure and death in patients with aids and moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia. because the adverse effects are few, corticosteroids should be included as part of the initial treatment for persons with aids who have moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia.
point mutation, allelic loss and increased methylation of c-ha-ras gene in human hepatocellular carcinoma. somatic alterations of the c-ha-ras gene were examined in 21 japanese patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. restriction endonuclease analysis by double digestion with mspi and hpaii revealed that dnas from two of 21 hepatocellular carcinoma tissues were affected by nucleotide substitution at the twelfth amino acid coding sequence of the c-ha-ras gene. dnas from cirrhotic noncancerous liver tissue, but not leukocytes, of one of these patients possessed the mutation, whereas dnas from noncirrhotic liver tissue and leukocytes of the other patient did not. in one of the nine patients harboring heterozygosity for c-ha-ras-related bamhi-fragments, the loss of one allele was demonstrated as a somatic change not only in dna from the tumor tissue but also in dna from the cirrhotic nontumorous tissue. in two of the 19 patients comparatively examined for digestion patterns of c-ha-ras locus with hpaii and mspi, extensive methylation was observed as a somatic modification in both dnas from the tumor and the cirrhotic nontumorous tissues. these results thus indicate that the genetic lesions affecting the c-ha-ras gene do occur in human hepatocellular carcinoma and probably serve as one of the multiple steps in the process of hepatic carcinogenesis.
assay of serum cardiac myosin heavy chain fragments in patients with acute myocardial infarction: determination of infarct size and long-term follow-up. to evaluate the correlation between myosin heavy chain release and the necrosis mass, serum levels of myosin heavy chain fragments were determined serially in 55 patients with acute myocardial infarction. eight of these patients were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents: the others were not treated. the same myosin titration was applied to the sera of 25 dogs with an experimental myocardial infarction. six of the dogs were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents. the time courses of the myosin concentrations are typical and monophasic for all patients with a noncomplex myocardial infarction. the values for the kinetic parameters of myosin release are comparable to those previously reported. we have now determined that cumulative myosin release significantly correlates with cumulative creatine kinase (ck), ck-mb, and lactate dehydrogenase release, as well as with thallium-201 distribution, as determined for different patient groups. thrombolytic treatment does not seem to qualitatively upset myosin kinetics. the results obtained in dogs with or without thrombolysis conclusively indicate that myosin release is a quantitative index of the necrosis mass. from a practical point of view, a few serial determinations of serum levels of myosin heavy chains are enough to estimate the necrosed mass in patients with acute myocardial infarction. more generally, serum myosin titration could be useful in detecting any cardiac disturbance involving myocardial injury resulting in membrane leakage of cardiac cells.
endoscopic sclerotherapy for control of bleeding varices in children. thirty-three children with esophageal varices due to portal hypertension underwent injection sclerotherapy over a period of 6 yr. thirty-one completed the sclerotherapy course, and the varices were eradicated in all. in nine, the procedure was performed as an emergency because of continued bleeding and, in each case, a gastric fundal varix was the source of the blood loss. sclerotherapy successfully controlled the bleeding in four of these, whereas five required surgical underrunning of the fundal varix. after surgery, these five continued sclerotherapy until the esophageal varices were eradicated. complications included transient pyrexia (39%), retrosternal discomfort (30%), esophageal ulceration (18%), and esophageal stricture (12%). rebleeding before initial eradication of the varices occurred in 12 patients but, thereafter, was very uncommon and always small in amount. esophageal varices recurred after initial eradication in 33% of cases but were easily sclerosed with further injections. this study demonstrates that sclerotherapy is effective in reducing bleeding frequency in children with portal hypertension, but emphasizes the need for regular follow-up endoscopy after initial eradication of esophageal varices.
hemodynamic status in critically ill patients with and without acute heart disease. physicians have been urged to reduce the use of the pulmonary artery catheter. however, there are no guidelines to help the clinician make the decision to use or withhold invasive monitoring in the individual patient. this study was designed to examine the accuracy of physician estimates of cardiac function in a spectrum of patients with hemodynamic instability to determine whether differences in accuracy among subgroups would suggest subgroups of patients who could be managed without invasive measurements. physician estimates of cardiac index were found to be sufficiently accurate in patients without acute heart disease that initial management without invasive monitoring may be appropriate in selected cases. however, due to the general inaccuracy of physician estimates, efforts to improve the accuracy of clinical judgments of cardiac function and hemodynamic status should be pursued with vigor in patients both with and without acute cardiac dysfunction.
atherosclerotic carotid disease and the eye. the evaluation and management of retinal ischemia from atherosclerotic carotid disease is in a state of flux reflected by the change from emphasizing surgical management in the '70s toward skepticism about the benefit of surgery in the '80s. in addition, reliable noninvasive diagnostic testing of the carotid artery has reduced the risk. the decision to consider surgical versus medical management must be made on an individual basis based on the patient's health, age, and the risk of angiography and surgery at each institution. in children and young adults, amaurosis fugax is a benign condition. in the older population amaurosis fugax is often the sentinel event of diffuse atherosclerotic disease and possible early death from myocardial infarction. a team including the neurologist, internist, ophthalmologist, and surgeon optimizes care of the whole disease and not just the symptom. it is hoped that information in the next decade will supply additional guidance in the care of this multifaceted malady.
trolox protects rat hepatocytes against oxyradical damage and the ischemic rat liver from reperfusion injury. trolox, a hydrophilic analog of vitamin e, was reported to scavenge peroxyl radicals from artificial systems better than its parent compound. here we examined the possible cytoprotective effect of trolox in cultured hepatocytes and in the rat liver. in cultured rat hepatocytes, 0.5 to 16 mmol/l trolox (with optimum between 1 to 2 mmol/l) was observed to prolong the survival of cells exposed to oxyradicals generated with xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine. the protection by 1 mmol/l trolox surpassed that provided by either ascorbate, mannitol, superoxide dismutase and/or catalase--each at a level giving its maximal protection in the same system. in both a global and partial model of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in rats, infusion of trolox (7.5 to 10 mumol/kg body weight) just before reflow reduced by greater than 80% the liver necrosis sustained in untreated (no trolox) control rats. such organ salvage was apparently accompanied by approximately 50% reduction in the amount of hepatic conjugated dienes, which were quantified by a highly specific radiochemical assay. since conjugated dienes are presumed to be good "markers" of oxyradical damage, our data may have provided a semiquantitative link between free radical-induced necrosis and its chemical imprint in vivo. the data also indicated a relatively rapid and potent antioxidant-like action by trolox on rat hepatocytes and on the postischemic reperfused rat liver.
therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine. we investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months. after stroke had occurred, the rats were divided into three groups: 1) parathyroidectomy, 2) nimodipine, and 3) controls. in the nimodipine group, the rats survived longer than those in the other groups. blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals. the increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity, urea, and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy. the histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats. in the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups, healing of the lesions was detectable. cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis. nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions. in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate. the cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated, and morphologic signs of healing were observed. reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy, even in an advanced stage of disease, had a therapeutic effect.
family recovery after vascular surgery. twenty-one families were observed in a 3-month study to assess family coping with major vascular surgery and recovery. analysis of family measures data (the family apgar, the family inventory of resource for management, and the family crisis oriented personal evaluation scales) was combined with grounded theory method to assess family responses over time and recovery outcomes. containment emerged as the major conceptual category of the grounded theory. containment refers to a constellation of constructed meanings for events and behavioral responses used by families to regulate the impact of the surgical crisis and reduce family disruption. this "contained" coping pattern was manifested in families' avoidant behaviors and narrow definitions of the problem: that is, they defined their situation in terms of the surgical repair as cure rather than palliative intervention for a chronic, progressive disease. situational factors such as the insidious development of the illness and the primary focus of care providers in the hospital on surgical care (allowing families' narrow definitions of their situation to remain unchallenged) also contributed to containment. containment resulted in poor risk factor management as a major recovery outcome. isolation and family conflict were evident throughout the recovery period. concerns generated by continued evidence of morbidity during recovery contributed to a developing awareness of underlying disease, and diminishing containment when this growing awareness was openly shared within the family. significant findings of the family measures analysis were compared with the grounded theory of the qualitative data. each corroborated the other in key dimensions.
esophageal malignancies: is preoperative radiotherapy the way to go? during the period 1969 to 1988, 68 patients with esophageal malignancy were subjected to preoperative radiotherapy consisting of 30 gy over 3 weeks followed by esophagectomy after a wait of 2 weeks. sixty-two of 68 patients (91%) were followed up retrospectively (5-year survival rate, 17.2%; 10-year survival rate, 4.8%). radiosensitivity of the tumor was graded by a radiation effect scoring method devised by us, and this was found to correlate with long-term prognosis (p = 0.05). radiotherapy "sterilized" malignant involvement of adventitia and draining lymph nodes in 8 patients and thereby converted "palliative" into potentially "curative" resections with a mean survival of 57.2 months in this group of patients. preoperative radiotherapy was found to increase the survival, decrease the incidence of residual tumor at the resected stump, reduce the incidence of local recurrence, and increase the resectability rate.
localization of technetium-99m-glucarate in zones of acute cerebral injury. the potential structural similarity of technetium-99m-labeled glucaric acid (99mtc-glucarate) to that of fructose suggests that this agent may enter cells by a sugar transport system. studies with llc-pk1 cells demonstrated inhibition of 99mtc-glucarate uptake by fructose, confirming this potential relationship. since anaerobic metabolism can use either glucose or fructose, we hypothesized that 99mtc-glucarate may concentrate in areas of acute ischemic injury. to test this hypothesis, 63 adult rats with middle cerebral artery (mca) occlusion followed by reperfusion were injected with 99mtc-glucarate and in vivo and ex vivo images were acquired. seven animals were also studied with 18fdg and high resolution pet imaging. the radionuclide images were compared to the results of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (ttc) staining and conventional histopathology. thirty-five rats had significant accumulation of 99mtc-glucarate and no ttc staining (indicating infarction) in the involved hemisphere. of the remaining 28 rats with ttc staining (suggesting viability) of the involved hemisphere, 16 (57%) had 99mtc-glucarate accumulation. in the seven rats that were studied with both 99mtc-glucarate and 18fdg, 99mtc-glucarate accumulated at the center of the occluded mca territory while 18fdg activity was decreased in this region. these results suggest that 99mtc-glucarate is a sensitive marker of acute severe cerebral injury, but its mechanism of localization is probably different from that of 18fdg.
rectal examination in general practice objective--to investigate factors influencing a general practitioner's decision to do a rectal examination in patients with anorectal or urinary symptoms. design--postal questionnaire survey. setting--general practices in inner london and devon. subjects--859 general practitioners, 609 (71%) of whom returned the questionnaire. main outcome measures--number of rectal examinations done each month; the indication score, derived from answers to a question asking whether the respondent would do a rectal examination for various symptoms; and the confidence score, which indicated the respondent's confidence in the diagnosis made on rectal examination. results--279 general practitioners did five or fewer rectal examinations each month and 96 did more than 10 each month. factors significantly associated with doing fewer rectal examinations were a small partnership and being a female general practitioner, and the expectation that the examination would be repeated. lack of time in the surgery, and a waiting time of less than two weeks for an urgent outpatient appointment were also important. general practitioners were deterred from doing rectal examinations by reluctance of the patient (278), the expectation that the examination would be repeated (141), and lack of time (123) or a chaperone (39). confidence in diagnosis was significantly associated with doing more rectal examinations, the perception of having been well taught to do a rectal examination at medical school, and being a male general practitioner. conclusions--factors other than clinical judgment influence the frequency of rectal examination in general practice. rectal examination may become commoner with the trend towards larger group practices and if diagnostic confidence is increased and greater emphasis put on rectal examination in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching.
implementation of preventive services in an hmo practice. practice does not conform to guidelines unless the guidelines are specifically implemented and performance is monitored. several examples of implementation in one health maintenance organization (hmo) are given. these include immunization for influenza and follow up of positive screening tests for colorectal and cervical cancer. each implementation effort has required the development of systems, which in this hmo are automated. several issues influencing implementation are discussed, including resource constraints and priorities for the allocation of new resources. developers cannot expect that their guidelines will be incorporated into clinical practice. they must foster specific implementation plans.
hepatocellular carcinoma with tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium: report of a successful resection with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. hepatocellular carcinoma with a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium has been considered beyond the reach of resection. these patients usually die within a short period because of pulmonary embolism, heart failure, or cancer progression. the only treatment is hepatic resection with removal of the tumor thrombus. a 38-year-old woman underwent left lobectomy with removal of the tumor thrombus with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. the patient had an uneventful course and is doing well 15 months after surgery, without signs of recurrence. we have proved that hepatic resection with removal of a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium can be carried out successfully. the next problem is whether the lives of these patients can be prolonged by this operation.
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations. report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis (nae) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells. clinically, dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate. the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined. the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points: (1) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations; and (2) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells, although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin. despite the rarity, this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders, particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.
liver and pancreas: improved spin-echo t1 contrast by shorter echo time and fat suppression at 1.5 t. t1-weighted spin-echo magnetic resonance (mr) images have had limited soft-tissue contrast at 1.5 t. the authors investigated the effects of echo-time (te) minimization and fat suppression on mr images of the liver and pancreas. two sets of mr images were obtained with identical repetition times and other parameters. in 10 subjects with seven liver lesions, images with tes of 20 and 12 msec were compared. in 18 additional subjects with seven liver lesions and five pancreatic carcinomas, images with identical tes but with and without fat suppression were compared. contrast-to-noise ratios (cnrs) were greater with a te of 12 msec than with a te of 20 msec for liver versus spleen (7.6 vs 4.9, p = .014) and liver versus lesion (6.9 vs 3.9, p = .031). in patients without fatty liver, cnr for six lesions versus liver was greater (9.5 vs 6.0, p = .014) with fat suppression. cnr between glandular pancreas and cancer was most conspicuous with fat suppression, but fat planes were less distinct. minimization of te improves t1-weighted images significantly. fat suppression also improves cnr, but the disadvantages of fat suppression do not allow elimination of conventional t1-weighted images.
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia. fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia, so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients. although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age, from 5 weeks to 40 years, gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95% of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring. panendoscopy was a useful adjunct. preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting, respiratory infections, and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction. severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration, dependence on gavage feedings, or poor weight gain and dehydration. follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years; 55 patients (85%) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment. we had no instances of surgical death. the long-term mortality rate was 14%, primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease. beyond the first postoperative year, 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration, exacerbation of preexisting lung disease, or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux. of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively, six had recurrence of reflux. recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients (12%), and we revised the fundoplication in three patients. the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients, neither of whom had recurrence of reflux. because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent, concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia, before the development of severe respiratory disease. despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients, the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status, decreased vomiting, and decreased respiratory problems. appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation. the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia.
recombinant human interleukin-1 induces meningitis and blood-brain barrier injury in the rat. characterization and comparison with tumor necrosis factor. the diversity of infectious agents capable of inducing meningitis and blood-brain barrier (bbb) injury suggests the potential for a common host mediator. the inflammatory polypeptides, il-1 and tnf, were tested in an experimental rat model as candidate mediators for induction of meningitis and bbb injury. intracisternal challenge of ril-1 beta into rats induced neutrophil emigration into cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and significantly increased bbb permeability to systemically administered 125i-bsa as early as 3 h later (p less than 0.05). this injury was reversible, dose dependent and significantly inhibited by prior induction of systemic neutropenia (via intraperitoneal cyclophosphamide) or preincubation of the ril-1 beta inoculum (50 u) with an igg monoclonal antibody to ril-1 beta. similar kinetics and reversibility of csf inflammation and bsa permeability were observed using equivalent dose inocula of ril-1 alpha. rtnf-alpha was less effective as an independent inducer of meningitis or bbb injury over an inoculum range of 10(1) u (0.0016 micrograms/kg)-10(6) u (160 micrograms/kg) when injected intracisternally, but inoculum combinations of low concentrations of rtnf alpha (10(3) u) and ril-1 beta (0.0005-5.0 u) were synergistic in inducing both meningitis and bbb permeability to systemic 125i-bsa. these data suggest that in situ generation of interleukin-1 within csf (with or without tnf) is capable of mediating both meningeal inflammation and bbb injury seen in various central nervous system infections.
adverse haemodynamic effects of high-dose aprotinin in a paediatric cardiac surgical patient. high-dose aprotinin for reduction of intra- and postoperative blood loss was associated with profound hypotension and flushing in a 3.5-year-old child who underwent cardiac surgery. treatment with noradrenaline and intravenous fluid was required. cardiovascular stability was restored after 10 minutes.
tumor necrosis factor downregulates granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor receptor expression on human acute myeloid leukemia cells and granulocytes. tumor necrosis factor (tnf) inhibits granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (g-csf)-induced human acute myeloid leukemia (aml) growth in vitro. incubation of blasts from three patients with aml in serum-free medium with tnf (10(3) u/ml), and subsequent binding studies using 125i-g-csf reveal that tnf downregulates the numbers of g-csf receptors by approximately 70%. g-csf receptor numbers on purified blood granulocytes are also downmodulated by tnf. downregulation of g-csf receptor expression becomes evident within 10 min after incubation of the cells with tnf at 37 degrees c and is not associated with an apparent change of the dissociation constant (kd). the tnf effect does not occur at 0 degrees c and cannot be induced by il-2, il-6, or gm-csf. tnf probably exerts its effect through activation of protein kinase c (pkc) as the tnf effect on g-csf receptor levels can be mimicked by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13- acetate. the pkc inhibitor staurosporine (sigma chemical co., st. louis, mo) as well as protease inhibitors can completely prevent g-csf receptor downmodulation. thus, it appears tnf may act as a regulator of g-csf receptor expression in myeloid cells and shut off g-csf dependent hematopoiesis. the regulatory ability of tnf may explain the antagonism between tnf and g-csf stimulation.
duodenal ulcer is associated with low dietary linoleic acid intake. it has been suggested that the falling incidence and virulence of duodenal ulcer is related to increased dietary polyunsaturated essential fatty acid intake. the adipose fatty acid profile, which closely reflects dietary intake, was measured in 35 men with chronic duodenal ulcer and 35 matched control men. the mean percentage of linoleic acid in adipose tissue was significantly lower in the ulcer group (10.0 (0.7) v 12.3 (0.7)%, p less than 0.01) and this difference was found in both smokers and non-smokers. this finding suggests that the diets of duodenal ulcer patients are deficient in linoleic acid and this could be of aetiological importance.
epiretinal membrane contracture associated with macular prolapse. we treated two patients with annular epiretinal membranes that produced unusual macular morphologic characteristics. contracture of the membranes caused herniation of macular tissue through a hole in the center of the membrane. the membranes were removed surgically, and ultrastructural analysis disclosed cells with properties resembling myofibroblasts and apparent new vitreous collagen. contracture of the cellular components probably produced tangential traction on the retina, which caused prolapse of the retinal tissue through a central defect in the membrane.
brain and liver angiotensinogen messenger rna in genetic hypertensive and normotensive rats. the brain's renin-angiotensin system in integrally involved in the regulation of blood pressure and fluid/mineral metabolism. enhanced activity of the angiotensin system in the brain has been implicated as a possible source of the hypertension and the elevated salt appetite of the spontaneously hypertensive rat, as compared with the wistar-kyoto rat. this study tested whether these inbred strains of hypertensive and normotensive rats differ in central or peripheral expression of the gene coding for angiotensinogen, the prohormone for the angiotensin peptides. angiotensinogen messenger rna was measured in the brain by in situ hybridization and in the liver by northern blot analysis, using a synthetic oligonucleotide. there was a 28% greater expression of the angiotensinogen gene in the region of the anteroventral hypothalamus, preoptic area, and medial septum of the hypertensive strain. there were no differences between strains in liver angiotensinogen gene expression. these results are consistent with the possibility that enhanced elaboration of the angiotensin prohormone in the brain contributes, in part, to the hypertension or the elevated salt appetite of the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
diagnostic value of anti-neuronal antibodies for paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system. the diagnostic value of the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies in serum was examined in 21 patients suspected of paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system (ns) (group 1) and was compared to three control groups; group 2: 25 patients with a neurological disease, without cancer and no sign of paraneoplastic disorder; group 3: 27 patients with neurological disease and cancer and no signs of a paraneoplastic disorder; group 4: 94 patients with cancer and without neurological disease. in group 1, anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies were detected in eight patients (38%), in titres from 1:1000 to 1:32,000. a small cell lung cancer was present in six patients, ovarian cancer in one patient and in one patient no tumour could be detected. the neurological symptoms preceded a diagnosis of cancer in five out of eight patients. anti-neuronal antibodies were found in the serum of two out of 94 patients (2%) from control group 3 but not in serum from any of the other control groups. these data indicate a moderate sensitivity of 38%, but a high specificity of 98.6% (95% confidence interval 95.5-99.8%) for the presence of anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies if a paraneoplastic ns disorder is suspected.
role of magnetic resonance contrast agents in cardiac imaging. improvements in magnetic resonance imaging (mri) technology allow adequate spatial and temporal resolution to capture cardiac anatomy and contractile function in exceptional detail and with little risk. however, tissue characterization of the pathophysiologic state of the myocardium may require special indicators or mr contrast agents. these must be tailored for detection by the mri process, but available agents are effective at low dose and provide a wide range of indicator properties (e.g., myocardial extracellular space, blood pool, capillary permeability and membrane transport). each agent has a dynamic washin and washout time-intensity curve that may reflect myocardial perfusion or consequences of ischemia. the combined use of mri and mr contrast agents may provide a single diagnostic examination that fully and quantitatively assesses all indexes of cardiac performance. such information would be both global and regional, and would be well tolerated by patients. the cost, value and cost-effectiveness of such studies remain speculative.
diagnosis of chronic abacterial prostato-vesiculitis by rectal ultrasonography in relation to symptoms and findings. a group of 36 men with chronic abacterial prostato-vesiculitis, confirmed by semen analysis and rectal ultrasonography, underwent detailed anamnesis and clinical examination. there was no clear relationship between the severity of the symptoms or the presence of leucocytes and the extent of the changes visualised by ultrasound. in 72% of cases, clinical examination also revealed signs of a previous epididymitis. in general, asymmetry in symptoms could be related to glandular pathology, as indicated by ultrasonography, on the ipsilateral side.
long-term (5 to 20 years) evolution of nongrafted aplastic anemias. the cooperative group for the study of aplastic and refractory anemias. in the presence of aplastic anemia (aa), therapeutic choices should be determined while taking into account not only changes for immediate improvement, but also both the risks for late-occurring complications and the following quality of life. we report here data concerning a long-term clinical survey (5 to 18 years with a median of 12 years) including 156 nongrafted patients receiving androgen therapy; all patients were alive more than 5 years after diagnosis (40% of patients included at time of diagnosis in our multicentric analysis). between the 5th and the 13th year follow-up, 21 patients died of various causes either related to aa or to its treatment: 12 of infection or hemorrhage secondary to pancytopenia (6 relapses and 6 that had never been improved; 2 with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria [pnh]); 5 of leukemia; 1 of a non-hodgkin's lymphoma; 2 of late side effects following transfusion (1 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 1 chronic b hepatitis); and a single case of myocardial infarction (the latter could possibly result of androgen therapy). thirteen patients in total developed pnh (among which 10 had clinical symptoms including 2 deaths, and 3 exhibited only biologic abnormalities). few long-term side effects of androgens could be noticed. adult height was normal in patients treated during childhood and so was young women's fertility. no malignant hepatoma occurred. this survey allows the recording of late spontaneous hematologic improvement (between 5 and 10 years of evolution). this occurred in 50% of patients that had remained cytopenic 5 years after diagnosis. although bone marrow stem cell concentration remained abnormal after 10 years of evolution. 85% of patients had a normal red blood cell count, 80% a normal polymorphonuclear count, and 66% a normal platelet count. all patients who did not show late complications had an excellent quality of life.
purulent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade caused by nocardia asteroides in mixed connective tissue disease. pericardial nocardiosis is extremely rare, but may affect especially immunocompromised hosts. we describe the first reported case of purulent pericarditis with cardiac tamponade as the initial presentation of systemic nocardiosis in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease. our case emphasizes the importance of identifying infectious causes of pericarditis in patients with connective tissue diseases. longterm survival was achieved with a combined medical and surgical approach.
hemiparkinsonism-hemiatrophy syndrome: clinical and neuroradiologic features. we evaluated 11 patients with hemiparkinson-hemiatrophy syndrome, 6 with body and contralateral cerebral hemispheric hemiatrophy, 4 with only body hemiatrophy, and 1 with just brain hemiatrophy. the mean age of symptom onset was 38.1 years (range, 18 to 54) with 5.2 +/- 3.1 (mean +/- sd) years of illness until the last follow-up visit. the presenting symptom was unilateral tremor in 6 patients, hand dystonia in 2, bradykinesia in 2, and abnormal gait in 1 patient. three patients had a good response to levodopa, 4 had moderate response, and 2 patients had a poor response. during a mean follow-up period of 1.7 years (range, 4 months to 5 years), the hoehn and yahr score changed in only 3 patients: 2 gained 1.5 points and 1 gained 3 points over 2.5 years. we discuss the association between hemiparkinsonism-body hemiatrophy and contralateral hemispheric hemiatrophy, and raise the possibility of early childhood brain insult with delayed-onset parkinsonism.
hepatic involvement in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection: discrepancies between aids patients and those with earlier stages of infection. the effect of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection on type and severity of liver disease was studied in 61 hiv-positive patients who did not have aids and in 45 aids patients. liver biopsies revealed viral hepatitis in 12 of 18 non-aids patients but in only 4 of 34 aids patients (p less than .0005, fisher's exact test). acute, non-a non-b, and chronic active hepatitis b were seen exclusively in the non-aids group; however, chronic persistent hepatitis b was seen in both groups. in 9 of 18 aids patients intra vitam liver histopathology established diagnoses of opportunistic infections or tumors. tissue reaction to certain pathogens, such as hepatitis b virus, mycobacteria, and cryptococci, seems to be milder in aids patients than in others who are hiv positive or the expected reaction of the normal host. this is likely because of impaired cell-mediated immunity in patients with advanced hiv disease.
association between hypothermia and mortality rate of premature infants--revisited. the incidence of hypothermia (axillary temperature less than 35 degrees c) on admission of an infant to a neonatal intensive care unit was retrospectively analyzed in 559 very-low-birth-weight (less than 1500 gm) newborn infants. the smaller infants were at greater risk of hypothermia. only in the larger neonates was mortality related to hypothermia, which suggests that this known association bears little cause-effect relationship.
lesions in side branches of arteries having undergone percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty: a histopathologic study. percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) may cause occlusion in side branches. no histologic studies, however, have been made on side branches of the arteries in which ptca has been performed. a histologic study was therefore made to explain the effect of ptca on side branches. histologic specimens were prepared by serial step sectioning from 15 side branches of 10 autopsied cases that had undergone ptca. the results of examination by light microscope were as follows: (1) stenoses due to ptca were seen in seven branches (46.7%). (2) the stenoses were classified into three types: (a) stenosis due to blocking of the orifice of a side branch by the disrupted portion of the intima of the main artery (one branch); (b) stenosis due to medial dissection of the main artery or further dissection occurring even in the side branches (three branches); and (c) stenosis due to fragmentation of the internal elastic lamina of the main artery accompanied by proliferation of smooth muscle cells even in the side branch (three branches). it is now clear that stenosis is caused in side branches long after ptca. extra care is required when major side branches exist in the portion where this procedure is to be performed.
repair of coarctation with persistent fifth arterial arch and atresia of the fourth aortic arch. coarctation of the aorta with persistent fifth arterial arch and atresia of the fourth aortic arch between the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries was treated surgically in a two-month-old boy with transposition of the great arteries and double-outlet right ventricle. the aortic arch was repaired using side-to-side anastomosis of the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries, patch repair of the coarctated segment at the origin of the left subclavian artery, and ligation of the patent ductus arteriosus. pulmonary arterial banding and balloon atrioseptostomy were performed for associated anomalies.
predictability and prognosis of ptca-induced coronary artery aneurysms. the natural history of coronary aneurysms, defined as local dilatations exceeding the diameter of the normal adjacent vessel segments by at least 1.5 times, is not significantly different from the natural history of nonaneurysmal coronary disease. however, little is known about the prognosis of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (pcta)-induced coronary aneurysms. therefore, we investigated the occurrence and the medium long-term prognosis of such aneurysms in 728 patients who, after successful ptca, underwent repeat coronary angiography at mean 4.5 months post-ptca. a coronary aneurysm at the site of ptca ws noted in 3.9% of patients (n = 28). of the potentially predictive factors analyzed, only a coronary dissection at the time of ptca had statistically significant influence. the long-term prognosis of ptca-induced coronary aneurysms was excellent. one patient underwent (unrelated) cardiac surgery, all other 27 patients remained eventfree. we conclude that the same benign nature of coronary aneurysmal disease holds true for those aneurysms that develop after ptca.
changes in haemostasis after stopping the combined contraceptive pill: implications for major surgery. objective--to investigate the changes in haemostasis in the three months immediately after stopping the combined contraceptive pill. design--prospective randomised study. setting--family planning centre in london. subjects--24 women aged 35-45 investigated before, during, and after six months' use of combined oral contraceptives containing 30 micrograms ethinyl oestradiol together with the progestogens desogestrel or gestodene. main outcome measures and results--blood samples were taken immediately before and after six months of oral contraceptive use and one, two, four, six, eight, and 12 weeks after the pill had been stopped. during the six months of oral contraceptive use the plasma concentration of factor x and fibrinogen increased and that of antithrombin iii decreased. between two and six weeks after stopping the pill a rebound phenomenon occurred with plasma concentrations of antithrombin iii increasing (mean change from baseline at two weeks 0.06 iu/l and at six weeks 0.10 iu/l) and fibrinogen decreasing (0.26 g/l change at two weeks and 0.40 g/l at six weeks). factor x concentrations fell gradually and the values at eight weeks were not significantly different from those found before the combined pill was started. conclusion--the combined pill should be stopped at least four weeks before major surgery, which carries the risk of postoperative thrombosis, to allow the potentially prothrombotic haemostatic changes that occur during its use to be corrected.
antiepileptic medication in pregnancy: late effects on the children's central nervous system development. in a follow-up study long-term effects of antenatal exposure to two anticonvulsant drugs, phenobarbital and carbamazepine on central nervous system development were evaluated. children aged 6 to 13 years of epileptic mothers who used phenobarbital (n = 13), carbamazepine (n = 12), phenobarbital plus carbamazepine (n = 12), or no medication (n = 24) during pregnancy were studied. none of the mothers had seizures during pregnancy. a control group carefully matched for confounding variables was selected of children of nonepileptic mothers (n = 61). minor and major congenital anomalies appeared to be more related to mother's epilepsy than to maternal medication. there were no neurologic differences between the groups. exposure to phenobarbital was associated with smaller head circumference. an accompanying negative effect of phenobarbital on cognitive development was suggested. further research on this intriguing phenomenon seems warranted.
pain on common bile duct injection during ercp: does it indicate sphincter of oddi dysfunction? the reproduction of a patient's biliary-type pain upon initial injection of contrast material into the common bile duct during diagnostic ercp is a dramatic experience for both patient and physician. the significance of this phenomenon is not clear, but it is touted by some to be a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction. sphincter of oddi manometry was performed on 224 consecutive patients referred over a 2-year period for evaluation of post-cholecystectomy syndrome and suspected sphincter of oddi dysfunction. all patients received only intravenous diazepam as premedication for ercp. delayed drainage time (greater than 45 min), bile duct dilation (greater than or equal to 12 mm), and a basal sphincter of oddi pressure of greater than 40 mm hg (mean +/- 3 sd) were considered elevated. we observed a reproduction of pain in 15 of 224 patients (6.7%) immediately following contrast injection. there was no correlation between pain on contrast injection and elevated basal sphincter of oddi pressure, delayed common bile duct drainage, bile duct dilation, or abnormal liver enzymes. therefore, we feel that reproduction of the patient's biliary-type pain associated with contrast injection of ercp is not a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction.
prognosis of pregnancy-associated breast cancer. the survival of patients with pregnancy-associated (pa) breast cancer is difficult to predict for two reasons: the combination is very rare, and the natural history of breast cancer that is not associated with pregnancy is intricate and varies among individuals. valid data collection and analysis is problematic given that studies gather patients over many years. the charts of 56 women with stages i, ii, and iii breast cancer, who were pregnant or within 1 year postpartum at the time of breast cancer diagnosis between 1960 and 1980, were analyzed. patients with pa breast cancer were compared to nonpregnant women of comparable ages, who were treated at the same hospital, by the same physicians, and during the same period. four patients were lost before 5-year follow-up, and one patient before 10-year follow-up. these five patients had distant metastases at the time they were lost to follow-up, and are considered to have died within that time. across stages, patients with pa breast cancer have survival not significantly different from those patients with non-pregnancy-associated (non-pa) breast cancer.
glutathione s-transferase. novel vaccine against fasciola hepatica infection in sheep. the potential of gst as a vaccine candidate against liver fluke infection in ruminants was studied by vaccinating sheep (n = 9) with gst purified from adult worms of fasciola hepatica and challenging with 500 f. hepatica metacercariae. the immunization induced a high antibody response to gst in contrast to the poor or undetectable response to this ag observed in naturally infected sheep. throughout the trial, the progress of the fluke infection was monitored by measuring rbc hemoglobin levels, the extent of liver damage and the fecal egg output in the sheep. this analysis indicated that a subpopulation (n = 4) of the gst vaccinated animals exhibited no anemia, reduced liver damage and a lower mean fecal egg count relative to the infected control group suggesting a lower fluke burden in these animals. worm burdens in the livers of the gst vaccine group (107 +/- 22) were 57% lower than in the infected control group (250 +/- 25). the subpopulation of the gst vaccine group demonstrated a 78% reduction in mean worm burdens relative to the control group. these results show that gst of adult f. hepatica is a novel ag that can significantly protect sheep against liver fluke infection. the results suggest that the immune response to gst is directed to the juvenile worm reducing the number of worms that can establish in the liver of the vaccinated animals.
long-term follow-up of 24 patients undergoing radical resection for ampullary carcinoma, 1953 to 1988. potentially curative radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary adenocarcinoma was performed in 24 patients over a 35-year period. the overall operative mortality was 12.5%. actuarial survival rate at 5 years was 61% +/- 13.4 standard error of the mean (sem) and subsequently remained unchanged. in the same time period, 21 patients underwent potentially curative radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for periampullary tumors of pancreatic origin. similar analysis showed an overall operative mortality of 23.8% and a survival rate at 5 years of 27% +/- 12.5 sem. the results of radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary carcinoma in the most recent years (1976 to 1988) were compared with those of former years (1953 to 1975). there were no statistically significant differences in the 5-year survival rate; however, the operative mortality decreased from 25% in the former period to 6.3% in the recent period. survival was dependent on nodal status. the 5-year survival rate was 78% +/- 11.5 sem in the absence of nodal metastasis versus 50% +/- 25 sem in the presence of regional nodal metastasis. these findings support the concept that radical pancreaticoduodenectomy offers a realistic probability for cure in a selected group of patients with carcinomas of the ampulla of vater.
patient evaluation for cardiac transplantation. the aim for cardiac transplantation is to improve the quality of life and the survival in patients with end-stage heart failure. given the scarcity of donor organ availability, the expense of the transplantation process and follow-up care, as well as the tremendous emotional burden the process places on a patient and his/her family, it is essential to carefully screen potential candidates for their symptomatic, functional, hemodynamic, and psychosocial eligibility, and to rule out coexisting hemodynamic or comorbid conditions that would jeopardize successful transplantation and immunosuppression. comprehensive screening of potential transplant candidates, which is best accomplished by a multidisciplinary team approach working closely with patients and their families, is essential to insure that maximum benefit is derived from this scarce and valuable resource.
clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of trilateral retinoblastoma. in this report, three new cases of trilateral retinoblastoma are presented. the clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of the patients are described and compared with those of 32 cases that have been previously reported in the literature. a positive family history was obtained in 68% of the patients. the mean age at diagnosis of bilateral retinoblastoma was 7.2 months. the mean age at diagnosis of trilateral disease was 39.7 months, resulting in a mean latent interval of 32.6 months. the mean time from diagnosis of trilateral retinoblastoma to death was 6.6 months, and all patients died with spinal metastases. the patients who received no therapy survived an average of 1.3 months after the diagnosis of trilateral disease. the patients who received any form of definitive therapy survived 9.7 months. five patients who had complete or dramatic response to therapy by computed tomography scans had local intracranial tumor present at autopsy. therefore, more aggressive local therapy may be warranted.
truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty combined with valvular replacement in patients with ulcer disease. in 1988, 5 patients (3 men and 2 women) with ulcer disease (mean age 56 +/- 8 years) underwent valvular replacement for aortic (no. = 4) or mitral disease (no. = 1). all patients had had gastroduodenal ulcers. preoperative gastroscopy demonstrated active ulcers (no. = 4) and a healed pyloric ulcer with pyloric stenosis (no. = 1). despite the presence of ulcers, a non-biologic prosthesis was preferred in each patient because of their young age (no. = 3), chronic atrial fibrillation requiring anticoagulant therapy (no. = 1), and refusal of the eventuality of subsequent reoperation (no. = 1). in each patient, a truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty was performed simultaneously with the valvular procedures by the same incision. the postoperative courses were uneventful. with a mean follow-up of 15 +/- 3 months, no gastrointestinal bleeding was observed during anticoagulant therapy. with anticoagulant drugs, bleeding may occur with a frequency of 4% per patient treatment-year, half of which are gastrointestinal in origin. nevertheless, in selected patients with gastroduodenal ulcers, performing a vagotomy-pyloroplasty simultaneously with valvular replacement allows implantation of a non-biologic prosthesis, with greater durability than bioprosthesis.
chronic hypomagnesemia caused by cisplatin: effect of calcitriol. a group of six patients with hypomagnesemia (serum magnesium less than or equal to 0.5 mmol/l), previously given treatment with cisplatin for ovarian or testicular cancer, received calcitriol at a dose of 0.5 to 1.0 microgram/day for a period of 4 weeks to determine whether treatment with this vitamin d metabolite could improve their hypomagnesemia. in response to treatment, the serum magnesium concentration fell progressively in association with a rise in serum and urinary calcium levels and a decrease in parathyroid hormone level. in a single previous report, active vitamin d metabolites markedly improved renal magnesium wasting. however, in the present study, increases in serum and urinary calcium levels and suppression of parathyroid hormone, factors known to decrease magnesium reabsorption, presumably overwhelmed any direct effect calcitriol may have had to enhance magnesium reabsorption, so that the net effect was a marked exacerbation of the renal magnesium wasting.
reappraisal of the mechanism for cerebrospinal fluid hypertension during aortic surgery. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) hypertension during aortic surgery is a poorly understood, multifactorial event that may increase the risk of spinal cord injury. to assess the factors that may contribute to changes in csf pressure during aortic surgery, measurements of ascending arterial and csf pressures were made in 17 anesthetized mongrel dogs. changes in csf patterns were monitored under several conditions tested in random sequence. these included systemic hypertension produced by an infusion of phenylephrine, cross-clamping of the descending thoracic aorta, and manual, superior displacement of the transverse aortic arch (arch elevation), either alone or in conjunction with the cross-clamp. hypertension, cross-clamping, and cross-clamping combined with arch elevation all produced significant increases in ascending mean arterial pressure (204 +/- 20, 170 +/- 8, and 158 +/- 11 mm hg, respectively, vs. 117 +/- 8 mm hg [control]; (p less than 0.01). small, nonsignificant increases in csf pressure were detected in the cross-clamp group, but none were detected with hypertension alone, despite significant increases in ascending arterial blood pressure in both groups. thus, neither arterial hypertension nor cross-clamping alone could be demonstrated directly to cause significant csf hypertension. however, when aortic elevation (displacement) was combined with cross-clamping, the rise in csf pressure increased to significant levels, even though the ascending arterial hypertension was least severe in this group. in contrast, arch elevation alone did not produce any significant increase in ascending arterial pressure but did produce an approximately 114% increase in csf pressure (15.2 +/- mm hg vs. 7.7 +/- 1 mm hg [control]; p less than 0.01.
magnetic resonance imaging of vertebral osteoblastoma: a report of two cases. two patients with vertebral osteoblastoma evaluated with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are presented. a literature review revealed that cases of osteoblastoma originating within the vertebral body are exceedingly rare.
exercise test predictors of ambulatory silent ischemia during daily life in stable angina pectoris. the predictive value of several exercise test parameters in identifying stable angina patients at risk of silent myocardial ischemia during daily life were examined. a total of 97 patients with coronary artery disease, stable angina and ambulatory electrocardiographic data were evaluated. of the 86 patients with a positive exercise test, 39 (group 1) had greater than or equal to 1 episodes of st-segment depression and 47 (group 2) did not develop st changes during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. comparison of the exercise test parameters between the 2 groups revealed early onset of ischemia during exercise tests as the single most significant (p less than 0.0005) predictor of ambulatory silent ischemia. the other exercise test parameters showing significant differences between the 2 groups were the peak exercise heart rate (117 +/- 23 vs 126 +/- 20 beats/min, p less than 0.05) and peak systolic blood pressure (160 +/- 27 vs 176 +/- 27 mm hg, p less than 0.01), both of which were significantly lower in the group 1 patients. these data were used to derive simple mathematical formulas for calculating the risk of ambulatory silent ischemia. these results demonstrate that stable angina patients at risk of silent ischemia during daily life can be accurately identified by evaluation of selected exercise test parameters.
experimental reduction of portal hypertension by mechanical increase of liver portal flow studies on the isolated perfused rat liver demonstrated that an increase in portal pressure is associated with an increase in the portal blood flow in normal and in cirrhotic livers. in two pigs with portal hypertension mesenteric portal pressure was lowered by mechanically increasing the liver portal blood flow by means of a balloon pump around the portal vein.
the influence of neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma. the influence of neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma is unknown. during the past 6 years some of the authors frequently gave protamine sulfate to neutralize heparin, whereas others did not unless a patch was used or wound hemostasis was not readily obtained. to determine the influence of protamine sulfate on stroke and wound hematoma the records of 697 patients having a carotid endarterectomy from january 1984 to september 1989 were reviewed. protamine sulfate was given to 328 patients, and 369 did not receive protamine sulfate. the incidence of stroke in the two groups was 1.8% (n = 6) and 2.7% (n = 10), respectively, and the difference was not significant (p = 0.6019). excluding three strokes that could not be related to neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin, the difference remained insignificant (1.5% vs 2.2%, p = 0.7290). the incidence of wound hematoma was 1.8% (n = 6) in patients given protamine sulfate and 6.5% (n = 24) in patients not given protamine sulfate, and this difference was significant (p = 0.0044). the difference remained significant when three hematomas not related to protamine sulfate were excluded (1.2% vs 6.2%, p = 0.0013). in patients not given protamine sulfate draining the wound lessened the incidence of wound hematoma (4.4% vs 8.6%), but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.1475). in patients given protamine sulfate the dose of protamine sulfate (15 to 45 mg vs 50 to 75 mg) had no statistically significant effect on the incidence of stroke (0.8% vs 2.0%, p = 0.6530) or wound hematoma (1.6% vs 1.0%, p = 1.000).
mechanisms of blood flow during pneumatic vest cardiopulmonary resuscitation. mechanisms of blood flow during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) were studied in a canine model with implanted mitral and aortic flow probes and by use of cineangiography. intrathoracic pressure (itp) fluctuations were induced by a circumferential pneumatic vest, with and without simultaneous ventilation, and by use of positive-pressure ventilation alone. vascular volume and compression rate were altered with each cpr mode. antegrade mitral flow was interpreted as left ventricular (lv) inflow, and antegrade aortic flow was interpreted as lv outflow. the pneumatic vest was expected to elevate itp uniformly and thus produce simultaneous lv inflow and lv outflow throughout compression. this pattern, the passive conduit of "thoracic pump" physiology, was unequivocally demonstrated only during itp elevation with positive-pressure ventilation alone at slow rates. during vest cpr, lv outflow started promptly with the onset of compression, whereas lv inflow was delayed. at compression rates of 50 times/min and normal vascular filling pressures, the delay was sufficiently long that all lv filling occurred with release of compression. this is the pattern that would be expected with direct lv compression or "cardiac pump" physiology. during the early part of the compression phase, catheter tip transducer lv and left atrial pressure measurements demonstrated gradients necessitating mitral valve closure, while cineangiography showed dye droplets moving from the large pulmonary veins retrograde to the small pulmonary veins. when the compression rate was reduced and/or when intravascular pressures were raised with volume infusion, lv inflow was observed at some point during the compressive phase. thus, under these conditions, features of both thoracic pump and cardiac pump physiology occurred within the same compression. our findings are not explained by the conventional conceptions of either thoracic pump or cardiac compression cpr mechanisms alone.
elevated pulmonary artery pressure. an independent predictor of mortality. analyses in this study were based on hemodynamic and angiographic data obtained in a cohort of 1,371 predominantly black patients during right and left heart catheterization. all patients were followed up prospectively for a mean of 117 weeks, and 103 fatal events were recorded. in cox survival analysis, three variables were found to be independently related to survival: pulmonary artery mean pressure (pamp), number of stenosed vessels, and left ventricular (lv) ejection fraction (p less than 0.01); in multivariate stepwise analysis, pamp entered the model first with the largest chi 2 value of the three prognostic variables (chi 2 = 33.4; p less than 0.0001). the pamp was 32 percent higher in decedents compared with survivors (25 + 11 mm hg vs 19 + 8 mm hg, p less than 0.01 [mean, sd]) and a 10 mm hg increase in pamp was associated with a more than fourfold increase in the relative risk of dying; this finding was independent of pulmonary vascular resistance and therefore could not be attributed to primary pulmonary vascular or parenchymal disease. in both the subgroup of 1,118 patients with a normal lv ejection fraction (greater than 50 percent) and the 253 patients with a reduced ejection fraction (less than 50 percent), pamp emerged as an independent predictor of mortality (p less than 0.0001 and 0.01, respectively), and is therefore a marker of cardiac disease beyond impairment of systolic contractile function. among patients without obstructive coronary artery disease, pamp alone provided prognostic information in the multivariate survival analysis.
diagnosis of pneumoperitoneum on supine abdominal radiographs. a blinded, retrospective study was performed to determine the value of supine abdominal radiographs in diagnosing pneumoperitoneum. supine films from 44 cases of pneumoperitoneum were randomly interspersed among supine films from 87 control subjects without free air, and the films were reviewed for the presence or absence of various signs of pneumoperitoneum, including rigler's sign (gas on both sides of the bowel wall), the falciform ligament sign (gas outlining the falciform ligament), the football sign (gas outlining the peritoneal cavity), the inverted-v sign (gas outlining the medial umbilical folds), and the right-upper-quadrant gas sign (localized gas in the right upper quadrant). one or more of these signs were present in 26 cases (59%) of pneumoperitoneum, including the right-upper-quadrant gas sign in 18 cases (41%), rigler's sign in 14 cases (32%), and the falciform ligament and football signs in one case each (2%). unfortunately, there were frequent errors in the interpretation of the right-upper-quadrant gas sign and rigler's sign, with a total of 11 false-positive cases (13%). further analysis of the true-positive right-upper-quadrant gas signs showed that these gas collections were always triangular or linear with an inferolateral to superomedial orientation and, if triangular, a concave superolateral border. in the true-positive rigler's signs, the bowel wall thickness ranged from 1 to 8 mm, whereas the false positives all had a bowel wall thickness of 1 mm or less. proper interpretation of the various signs of pneumoperitoneum on supine films should lead to more accurate diagnosis of this condition.
adrenergic stimulation of renal prostanoids in the lyon hypertensive rat. young, genetically hypertensive lyon (lh) rats exhibited an increased renal in vivo turnover of norepinephrine and an elevated urinary excretion of thromboxane b2 when compared with normotensive (ln) and low blood pressure (ll) controls. therefore, the effects of norepinephrine (1.2 x 10(-8) to 9.6 x 10(-7) m) and of phenylephrine (5 x 10(-8) to 1.9 x 10(-6) m) on renal function and the urinary excretion of prostanoids were assessed in isolated perfused kidneys of 8-week-old lh, ln, and ll rats. in addition, the effects of norepinephrine were assessed before and during thromboxane a2/prostaglandin h2 receptor blockade by ah23848 (4 x 10(-6) m). before drug infusion, lh kidneys differed from those of ln and ll controls by having an elevated renal vascular resistance and a decreased natriuresis and glomerular filtration rate; the urinary output of prostaglandin e2 and f2 alpha, of 6-ketoprostaglandin f1 alpha, and of thromboxane b2 was similar in the three strains. the constrictor effects of norepinephrine and phenylephrine were significantly increased in lh rat kidneys compared with ll but not with ln controls, and their pressure-natriuresis was markedly reduced. norepinephrine and phenylephrine induced a 10- to 20-fold dose-dependent increase in the synthesis of the four prostanoids, which was more pronounced in lh than in ln and ll rats for thromboxane b2 only. ah23848 infusion significantly reduced the vascular effects of norepinephrine and increased the natriuretic response of lh but not of ln and ll rat kidneys.
adult hepatic fibropolycystic disease presenting as obstructive jaundice. obstructive jaundice caused by compression of the common hepatic duct by a simple hepatic cyst in a 31 year old europid man is reported. the jaundice and duct compression resolved after percutaneous aspiration of the cyst under ultrasound direction and the patient has been well for 12 months.
initial clinical evaluation of carotid artery laser endarterectomy. clinical study of carotid artery laser endarterectomy began april 15, 1988. this report describes the first 10 cases that were performed in nine patients (five men and four women, mean age 70 years). indications were asymptomatic stenosis (5), transient ischemic attacks (4), and stroke in evolution (1). there were two emergency cases and eight elective cases (including one reoperative case). surgical exposure, systemic heparinization, vascular control, and a longitudinal arteriotomy were used. the cleavage plane between atheromas and media was developed with argon ion laser radiation (488 and 514.5 nm) directed through a 300 microns quartz fiber at power 1.0 w. laser radiation was used to cut the atheromas out of the arteries and weld the end points. residual atheromatous debris were vaporized with individual laser exposures. arteriotomies were closed with sutures, and blood flow was restored. the endarterectomies were 3.9 +/- 1.1 cm long and required 330 +/- 97 joules. mean clamp time was 22.5 +/- 7.9 minutes. shunts were used in two cases. there were no arterial perforations or injuries as a result of laser light. complications were hematoma (1), respiratory arrest (1), and transient neurologic deficit (1). carotid endarterectomy is technically feasible with argon ion laser radiation. in the present series, postoperative observations, averaging 12 months and ranging from 5 to 19 months, have shown satisfactory results. no angiographic follow-up examinations were carried out.
reflex sympathetic dystrophy after clavicle fracture: case report. reflex sympathetic dystrophy (rsd) of the anterior chest wall is a rare entity. a medline search in all languages of the world's literature from 1966 to the present yielded no report of the association of clavicle fracture with this pain syndrome. two cases are presented and the anatomic variations of the supraclavicular nerves in relation to the clavicle are discussed.
kinin/prostaglandin system: its therapeutic value in surgical stress. multiple system organ failure as a consequence of injury or sepsis remains the major reason for death in critically ill patients. one of the treatment concepts that has recently attracted clinical attention is the administration of kinins and prostaglandins (pgs). on the basis of experimental data, there is reason to believe that these compounds may have the potential to manipulate favorably certain processes and mechanisms (such as inflammatory or ischemic reactions) thought to be important in the pathophysiology of surgical stress. however, thus far, information on those effects in humans is still scarce. on the other hand, administration of kinins and pgs is technically possible and can be performed safely, even in intensive care patients. therefore, different techniques, effects, and side-effects of kinin/pg therapy deserve clinical testing. it remains to be seen whether this concept will be useful in the treatment of critically ill surgical patients.
periventricular hyperintensity detected by magnetic resonance imaging in infancy. twenty-one infants younger than 12 months of age were diagnosed as having periventricular hyperintensity (pvh) on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. ten infants had experienced neonatal asphyxia, 6 intracranial hemorrhage, 2 bacterial meningitis, and 3 apnea. pvh was classified according to its extent. round foci of pvh surrounding the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles were observed in 4 infants (pvh pattern i). continuous pvh was observed in 17 infants (pvh patterns ii and iii). fourteen infants with continuous pvh had spastic diplegia or quadriplegia. developmental delay was demonstrated in 15 infants with continuous pvh. no pvh pattern i infants had cerebral palsy; only 1 such infant had mild developmental delay. our study suggests that the extent of pvh reflects the severity of brain damage in neonates with cerebral injuries.
visual illusions in a patient with lateral medullary syndrome. the disturbance of visual perception associated with nystagmus is a rare phenomenon. this is a case of a 61-year-old woman who developed progressive right hemisensory deficit, left facial sensory deficit, vertigo, staggering to the left, left ptosis, vertical diplopia, and ataxia of the left upper extremity. she had rotatory nystagmus in primary position, which increased in amplitude with left gaze. the above signs and symptoms were consistent with lateral medullary syndrome. during her rehabilitation, the patient complained of visual disturbances typical of oscillopsia. these disturbances, or illusions, are compensatory mechanisms for nystagmus and its resultant retinal error. the purpose of this case presentation was to study the pathophysiology underlying oscillopsia in patients with nystagmus and to stimulate awareness of such visual disturbances in stroke patients.
nonoperative management of small-bowel obstruction with endoscopic long intestinal tube placement. intestinal obstruction remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in surgical patients. we reviewed the records of 77 patients with mechanical small-bowel obstruction who were treated with endoscopically and fluoroscopically placed leonard long intestinal tube decompression. most patients (59%) had failed a trial of nasogastric tube or miller-abbott tube decompression. overall, 29 per cent of patients were able to resolve their obstruction with leonard tube decompression alone. subdivision of patients on the basis of the etiology of their obstruction demonstrated a much higher rate of success for tube decompression in adhesive obstruction (37%) versus malignant obstruction (12%) or inflammatory obstruction (no successes). patients with radiographic and clinical evidence of complete intestinal obstruction were significantly less likely to respond to long intestinal tube treatment (13%). the long intestinal tube was easily passed in all patients. there were no complications of the intubation procedure in our series, and the incidence of tube-related complications was four per cent. we conclude that an initial period of long intestinal tube decompression allows a significant percentage of patients with mechanical small-bowel obstruction to be treated nonoperatively, particularly if a partial obstruction from postoperative adhesions is present. patients who have failed a trial of nasogastric tube decompression and are poor operative risks should also be considered for long intestinal tube placement.
years of potential life lost: another indicator of the impact of cutaneous malignant melanoma on society. years of potential life lost (ypll) is an indicator of premature mortality that complements traditional incidence and mortality rates and that facilitates comparisons among different cancers. we calculated ypll from cutaneous melanoma and 11 other cancers routinely recorded and tracked by surveillance, epidemiology and end results (seer). ypll from cutaneous melanoma ranked eighth for persons younger than 65 years of age and fourth for those 20 to 49 years of age. an average of 17.1 ypll per death were due to melanoma, one of the highest rates for adult-onset cancers. the results of our study, the first to apply ypll to cutaneous melanoma, emphasize the disproportionate impact of this cancer on young and middle-aged adults and reemphasize the importance of this cancer as a public health priority.
paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration: a clinical comparison of patients with and without purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies. in a review of 32 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (pcd), 16 (all of whom were women) had purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies (pcab) and 16 (8 women) did not. most patients (15 of 16 seropositive and 12 of 16 seronegative patients) had active cancer at the time of neurologic diagnosis. gynecologic or breast cancers were found in 14 of 16 seropositive and in 2 of 8 seronegative female patients; lung cancer was diagnosed in 7 of 16 seronegative patients but in no seropositive patient. in seropositive patients, the onset of the syndrome was more often abrupt and abnormalities of affect, mentation, ocular motility, and cerebrospinal fluid igg index were more common than in seronegative patients. additional paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes were present in five seronegative patients but in no seropositive patient. clinical impairment was equivalent in both groups; approximately 75% of patients were confined to a wheelchair or bed at last follow-up. four of 16 seropositive patients died (4 to 18 months after onset of pcd), and 7 of 16 seronegative patients died (7 to 120 months after onset of pcd). thus, pcab seem to be a marker for a clinical subset of female patients with gynecologic or breast cancer. the high frequency of other autoimmune paraneoplastic syndromes in patients with seronegative pcd suggests that pcd in both seropositive and seronegative patients may have a common pathogenic basis that involves an as yet unidentified antineuronal autoimmune mechanism.
severity of meningococcal disease: assessment by factors and scores and implications for patient management. results from our own and other published series of cases of meningococcal disease were used to study prognostic factors and to compose scores for assessment of severity of disease on admission to the hospital. the difference in risk for fatality was designated the factor fatality difference (ffd); the ffd was determined by subtracting the percent fatality for factor-negative patients from the percent fatality for factor-positive patients. ffd was useful for selection of good indicators of severity of disease. blood ph of less than 7.35 was the best single factor; low platelet count came next, followed by low blood pressure, cyanosis, ecchymosis, and low blood leukocyte count. new scores were constructed based on multiple regression analyses. several older and new scores seemed to be comparable. by combining age-adjusted systolic blood pressure (less than 100 mm hg), cyanosis, ecchymosis, diarrhea before or at admission, cold extremities, absence of nuchal or back rigidity, and rectal temperature of greater than or equal to 40 degrees c, a simple bedside percentage score, the menopp bedside clinical score (moc), was devised. cross-evaluations on test materials generally confirmed the choice of score. the simplicity of this score made it more clinically suitable than laboratory or mixed laboratory and bedside scores.
prognosis and prognostic factors of retinal infarction: a prospective cohort study. objective--to determine the prognosis and adverse prognostic factors in patients with retinal infarction due to presumed atheromatous thromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism. design--prospective cohort study. setting--university hospital departments of clinical neurology. patients--99 patients with retinal infarction, without prior stroke, referred to a single neurologist between 1976 and 1986 and evaluated and followed up prospectively until death or the end of 1986 (mean follow up 4.2 years). interventions--cerebral angiography (55 patients), aspirin treatment (37), oral anticoagulant treatment (eight), carotid endarterectomy (13), cardiac surgery (six), and peripheral vascular surgery (two). main outcome measures--death, stroke, coronary events, contralateral retinal infarction; survival analysis confined to 98 patients with retinal infarction due to presumed artheromatous thromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism (one patient with giant cell arteries excluded), and cox's proportional hazards regression analysis, including age as a prognostic factor. results--during follow up 29 patients died (21 of vascular causes and eight of non-vascular or unknown causes), 10 had a first ever stroke, 19 had a coronary event, and only one developed contralateral retinal infarction. a coronary event accounted for more than half (59%) of the deaths whereas stroke was the cause of only one death (3%). over the first five years after retinal infarction the actuarial average absolute risk of death was 8% per year; of stroke 2.5% per year (7.4% in the first year); of coronary events 5.3% per year, exceeding that of stroke; and of stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death 7.4% per year. prognostic factors associated with an increased risk of death were increasing age, peripheral vascular disease, cardiomegaly, and carotid bruit. adverse prognostic factors for serious vascular events were increasing age and carotid bruit for stroke, and increasing age, cardiomegaly, and carotid bruit both for coronary events and for stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death. conclusions--patients who present with retinal infarction due to presumed atherothromboembolism or cardiogenic embolism are at considerable risk of a coronary event. the risk of stroke, although high, is not so great. not all strokes occurring after retinal infarction relate directly to disease of the ipsilateral carotid system, although this is probably the most common cause. few patients experience contralateral retinal infarction. non-arteritic retinal infarction should be diagnosed or confirmed by an ophthalmologist, and the long term care of patients with the condition should involve a physician who has an active interest in managing vascular disease.
genital herpes simplex virus infections. there has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections. this has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections, particularly severe, first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior hsv-1 infection. virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis, and use of viral cultures is encouraged. type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of hsv in transmission of genital infections, the role of genital hsv in transmission of hiv, the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with hsv-2, and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 in 25% of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes. unfortunately, commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to hsv-1 and hsv-2. recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10% in heterosexual couples. currently, promotion of "safe sex" is the only available approach for prevention of transmission. however, ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine. acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes, but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated. acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of hsv infections in persons with aids. additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of acv-resistant hsv infections in the immunocompromised host.
the effect of an alpha-2 agonist on bladder function and cord histology after spinal cord injury [retracted by weiss r, tomasula jj, sotologo jr jr. in: j urol 1991 aug;146(2):426] spinal injury in cats is accompanied by urinary bladder and hind limb dysfunction. ten cats subjected to spinal contusion at the ninth thoracic segment were treated with guanabenz (an alpha-2 agonist) intraperitoneally (0.65 mg./kg.) three hours after injury, and twice daily for eight weeks. an additional six spinal cats were untreated and served as controls. urodynamic studies were performed on a weekly basis on all animals. guanabenz modified the vesico-somatic reflex: detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia was either ablated or abolished. in contrast, the controls demonstrated detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia, high residual urine, and spasticity below the lesion. histological evaluations of the spinal cords revealed that the six paraplegic animals (untreated) suffered marked cavitation of the cord and complete destruction of the grey matter. the five incomplete paraplegic animals (treated) showed minimal cavitation with some preservation of the grey matter. the five ambulators (treated) demonstrated some distortion of grey matter with preservation of white matter. treatment with guanabenz post traumatic cord injury results in decreased cord cavitation. detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia is diminished and hind limb function is improved in treated animals.
treatment of severe peptic esophageal stricture with roux-en-y partial gastrectomy, vagotomy, and endoscopic dilation. a follow-up study eleven patients with dysphagia caused by severe esophageal stricture (length 2 to 10 cm) resulting from reflux esophagitis were treated with fibroendoscopic dilation (eder-puestow) and roux-en-y partial gastrectomy with vagotomy during 10 years (1979 to 1988). there was no operative mortality, but complications developed in three patients: one patient had a mediastinal abscess demanding thoracotomy as a result of esophageal perforation after dilatation; one had postoperative pneumonia; and one patient had ileus. after a mean follow-up of 4 years (range 1 to 10 years) esophagitis healed in all cases, as judged by endoscopy. eight patients were asymptomatic, but three had slight transient dysphagia. postoperatively one to eight dilations (average three to four) were needed to relieve dysphagia in the first postoperative year, but later the stricture healed in every case. postoperative ph measurement was performed in six latest patients and showed complete absence of reflux in all cases. it is concluded that roux-en-y partial gastrectomy with vagotomy and endoscopic dilation is an effective, simple, and safe procedure in the management of severe peptic esophageal (acid or alkaline esophagitis) stricture. however, occasional postoperative dilations at the outpatient clinic are often needed in severe cases in the first postoperative year.
efficacy and safety of doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and elevated levels of cholesterol. in hypertensive patients, elevated serum cholesterol is a frequent and sinister additional coronary risk factor. selective alpha 1-adrenoreceptor inhibitors appear to have the unique ability to control both risk factors. forty-two patients, ages 42 to 65 years, including 21 men with sustained hypertension and elevated serum cholesterol levels, were included in a trial of monotherapy with doxazosin administered once daily (range, 1 to 16 mg). the influence of the drug on high blood pressure and elevated serum cholesterol was evaluated over a 28-week period, which consisted of a 4-week, single-blind placebo lead-in period, an open 10-week dose-adjustment period, and finally a 14-week maintenance period. of the 39 efficacy-evaluable patients, 25 (64%) achieved adequate blood pressure control (diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg or a decrease in diastolic blood pressure greater than 10 mm hg) at a mean daily dose of 2 mg of doxazosin. no persistent changes occurred in heart rate. in the 32 patients with evaluable lipid data, there were nonsignificant trends to an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a reduction in total cholesterol, together with a significant reduction in serum triglyceride concentration. the combined changes in blood pressure and blood lipid levels resulted in a reduction of 36% in the calculated risk of coronary heart disease. eleven patients reported side effects and four were withdrawn from therapy. these results confirm the antihypertensive and anticholesterolemic efficacy of once-daily treatment with doxazosin.
perirectal abscess in crohn's disease. drainage and outcome. the role of surgical intervention in the treatment of patients with anorectal crohn's disease is controversial. to clarify the success of aggressive drainage and the subsequent clinical course of patients with crohn's disease and perirectal abscesses, the authors reviewed the records of 38 patients who presented with this condition during an eight-year period. twenty-two male and 16 female patients (median age, 32 years; range, 17 to 61 years) with clinically or pathologically confirmed crohn's disease of the bowel underwent operation for perirectal abscesses. thirty-two percent of patients had no previous history of anorectal crohn's disease. thirty simple abscesses and 8 complex horseshoe abscesses were treated. at operation, 53 percent of patients underwent incision and drainage whereas 26 percent received loop indwelling drains and 21 percent had mushroom catheters placed. after resolution of the index abscess, recurrent abscesses occurred in 45 percent of the patients who underwent catheter drainage and 56 percent of the patients who underwent incision and drainage. more importantly, 44 percent of the incision and drainage group and only 31 percent of the catheter drainage group required subsequent proctectomy to control perineal sepsis. the healing time of the perineal wound was longer than six months in 83 percent of patients requiring rectal excision. we concluded that long-term catheter drainage may offer substantial benefit in the overall outcome of the treatment of patients with crohn's disease and perirectal abscess.
transforming growth factor beta 1 suppresses acute and chronic arthritis in experimental animals. systemic administration of the cytokine, tgf beta 1, profoundly antagonized the development of polyarthritis in susceptible rats. tgf beta 1 administration (1 or 5 micrograms/animal), initiated one day before an arthritogenic dose of streptococcal cell wall (scw) fragments, virtually eliminated the joint swelling and distortion typically observed during both the acute phase (articular index, ai = 2.5 vs. 11; p less than 0.025) and the chronic phase (ai = 0 vs. 12.5) of the disease. moreover, tgf beta 1 suppressed the evolution of arthritis even when administration was begun after the acute phase of the disease. histopathological examination of the joint revealed the systemic tgf beta 1 treatment greatly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration, pannus formation, and joint erosion. consistent with the inhibition of inflammatory cell recruitment into the synovium, tgf beta 1 reversed the leukocytosis associated with the chronic phase of the arthritis. control animals subjected to the same tgf beta 1 dosing regimen displayed no discernable immunosuppressive or toxic effects even after 4 wk of treatment. these observations not only provide insight into the immunoregulatory effects of tgf beta, but also implicate this cytokine as a potentially important therapeutic agent.
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in relation to previous use of analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. catalan countries study on upper gastrointestinal bleeding to assess the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with the use of individual non-narcotic analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), a multicentre study of 875 cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and 2682 hospital controls was done. with control for confounding factors, the overall odds ratio estimate for aspirin taken at least once during the week before the first symptom was 7.2 (95% confidence interval 5.4-9.6). non-aspirin nsaids associated with upper gastrointestinal bleeding were diclofenac (7.9 [4.3-14.6]), indomethacin (4.9 [2.0-12.2]), naproxen (6.5 [2.2-19.6]), and piroxicam (19.1 [8.2-44.3]). paracetamol, propyphenazone, and dipyrone did not increase the risk. a previous history of gastrointestinal bleeding or peptic ulcer did not greatly affect odds ratio estimates, which differed according to sex and were higher for younger than for older patients. however, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was higher among the elderly.
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour. catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae. case report. the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue. the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation. emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage. it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now.
the risk of large bowel cancer after partial gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease. the relative risk (standardized incidence ratio [sir] for colorectal cancer after partial gastrectomy for ulcer disease was examined in a population-based cohort comprising 6459 patients operated during 1950 to 1958. follow-up through 1983 revealed 131 cases of colorectal cancer versus 150.3 expected cases (sir = 0.87; 95% confidence limits 0.73, 1.03). the relative risk was decreased during the first 19 years of follow-up (sir = 0.75; 0.58, 0.96) and close to equal thereafter (sir = 1.02; 0.79, 1.29). sex, age at operation, type of operation, and diagnosis at operation (stomach or duodenal ulcer) did not affect the relative risk significantly. confounding by socioeconomic status is one conceivable explanation for the decreased relative risk during the first years of follow-up, whereas the increasing risk with longer duration of follow-up might be a consequence of the surgical procedure itself.
expression of vla-alpha 2, vla-alpha 6, and vla-beta 1 chains in normal mucosa and adenomas of the colon, and in colon carcinomas and their liver metastases. 'very late antigen' (vla) proteins are members of the integrin superfamily with cell-surface receptor function and are involved in the cell-cell matrix interaction. they are heterodimers with a common beta 1 chain and different alpha chains counted through vla-1 to vla-6. the vla-2 complex (alpha 2/beta 1) was found to act as collagen receptor on platelets and the vla-6 complex (alpha 6/beta 1) as laminin receptor. using monoclonal antibodies and an indirect immunoperoxidase method, we investigated the expression of vla-alpha 2, vla-alpha 6, and vla-beta 1 chains in 20 normal colonic mucosa samples, in 20 colonic adenomas, and in 96 carcinomas together with 10 accompanying liver metastases. all three proteins were expressed throughout the colonic epithelium, except for vla-alpha 2, which was present in the cryptic gland but was absent on the mucosal surface in some cases. in general, adenomas were strongly positive for the vla proteins but 3 of 20 cases showed focal vla-alpha 2-negative areas. the carcinomas revealed considerable heterogeneity of vla-alpha 2 expression; ie, 59 tumors were completely positive, 35 tumors revealed a focal loss of antigen, and 2 cases were negative. this reduced antigen expression was statistically associated with dukes' stage c/d (p = 0.003). vla-alpha 6 was expressed throughout in all tumors. vla-beta 1 was found extensively expressed in 77 carcinomas, partially expressed in 17 carcinomas, and was absent in 2 carcinomas. as compared to their primary tumors, liver metastases showed roughly corresponding patterns of antigen expression. the down regulation/loss of vla proteins in a subset of epithelial colon tumors might cause a disturbed cell-cell/cell-matrix interaction that might augment the invasive property of their cells.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory gastropathy: from theory to practice. the success of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in managing joint inflammation and pain has come at the cost of impressive side effects, particularly in the gastrointestinal tract. this manuscript reviews the magnitude of the problem, the risk factors, and presentation of nonsteroidal gastropathy. it also presents some points in the prevention and management of the disorder.
divergent efficacy of antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha in intravascular and peritonitis models of sepsis. the role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf alpha) in the lethal consequences of intravascular lipopolysaccharide (lps) or escherichia coli sepsis was compared with that in bacterial peritonitis. intravenous administration of e. coli lps or e. coli (live or dead) resulted in large transient increases in serum tnf alpha levels, peaking at 90 min at 10,000-30,000 units/ml. in contrast, the serum tnf alpha response following the induction of bacterial peritonitis was substantially less, peaking at 200-500 units/ml. sterile peritonitis (essentially nonlethal) and bacterial peritonitis (greater than 60% lethal) elevated tnf alpha levels to 1000-2000 units/lavage within the peritoneal cavity 2 h after challenge. passive immunization with neutralizing goat anti-tnf alpha igg improved survival from 8% to 75% in rats administered lps intravenously but was completely ineffective in protecting rats from lethal e. coli peritonitis. thus significant differences exist in the role tnf alpha plays in systemic intravascular models of sepsis and bacterial peritonitis.
prospective study of quality of life before and after coronary artery bypass grafting objectives--measurement of changes in patients' perceptions of how differing states of health affect their lives and determination of the ability of preoperative variables to predict outcome after coronary artery bypass grafting. design--prospective study with completion of questionnaires before coronary artery bypass grafting and at three months, one year, and five years afterwards. setting--regional cardiothoracic centre. patients--100 male patients all aged below 60 at the time of operation, who were patients of two cardiothoracic surgeons. main outcome measures--patients' assessment of their health state in terms of functional capacity and aspects of distress, according to the nottingham health profile and outcome of operation in terms of changes in symptoms, working life, and daily activities determined by self completed study questionnaires before operation and at three and six months afterwards. results--intermediate one year results are reported. the differences between the nottingham health profile scores before operation and at three months afterwards were significantly different (p less than 0.01), indicating an appreciable improvement in general health state, and at one year compared favourably with those from a normal male population. analysis of responses to the study questionnaire showed that 65 of 89 patients (73%) were working at one year after operation with a further seven (8%) maintaining that they were fit to work but unable to find employment. the proportion of patients complaining of chest pain fell from 90% (88/98) before grafting to 19% (17/89) at one year after coronary artery bypass grafting, when 91% (81/89) patients maintained that their condition was either completely better or definitely improved. the significant positive factors affecting return to work and home activities were working before operation, short wait for operation, absence of breathlessness, and low physical mobility score in the nottingham health profile (all p less than 0.001). conclusions--improvements were evident in general health state, symptoms, and activity at three months and one year after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. interventions likely to influence outcomes included reduction in waiting times for operation; rehabilitation initiatives; and more attention to the quality of information given to patients, their relatives, and the community.
increase of calmodulin activator in hypertension. modulation by dietary sodium and calcium. the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary calcium and sodium on blood pressure (bp) in normotensive rats (wistar, wky), spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) and dahl rats and on calmodulin (cam) activator, a newly-discovered hydrophobic compound that increases cam activity in shr and spontaneously hypertensive mice (shm) tissues (j clin invest 82:276, 1988). the cam activator was assessed by its capacity to stimulate a cam-dependent phosphodiesterase (cam-pde). in wistar rats, which were fed a high sodium diet (3.5%), bp significantly increased (p less than .01) from 106 +/- 4 to 128 +/- 8 mm hg in parallel to an elevation of the cam activator from 1.57 +/- 0.14 to 2.80 +/- 0.18 u. wky, shr, and dahl salt-sensitive (ds/jr) and salt-resistant (dr/jr) rats were given low (0.15%) or high (2.5%) ca diets, both with 1% sodium. in rats receiving high dietary ca the progression of hypertension diminished and bp was lower in shr (156 +/- 4 mm hg) and young ds/jr rats (125 +/- 3 mm hg) than in those receiving low dietary ca (192 +/- 10 and 183 +/- 2 mm hg). there was a concomitant decrease of cam activator in these animals to levels indistinguishable from those of wky or dr/jr rats. the activator was also found in the heart, kidneys and erythrocytes from shm. in the presence of exogenously added cam, lipidic extracts from the shm heart showed augmented cam-pde activity relative to normotensive preparations. this difference was eliminated by trifluoperazine.
recognising failure to thrive in early childhood. the maximum weight centile achieved by a child between 4 and 8 weeks of age was found to be a better predictor of the centile at 12 months than the birth weight centile. children whose weight deviated two or more major centiles below this maximum weight centile for a month or more showed significant anthropometric differences during the second year of life from those who showed no such deviation. it is suggested that this leads to a logical and practical definition of failure to thrive.
control of hypertensive emergencies although uncommon, hypertensive emergencies require prompt recognition and treatment to reduce very high morbidity and mortality rates. admission to an intensive care unit for treatment and monitoring is essential for optimal care. a swan-ganz catheter is often helpful in management. intravenous nitroprusside sodium (nipride, nitropress) is probably the drug of choice for hypertensive emergencies other than those due to eclampsia or pheochromocytoma.
hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma. foramen magnum tumours are rare. they may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions. we report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness, never previously described in the literature. voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma.
the effects of age and peripheral vascular disease on the circulatory and mechanical response of skin to loading. the skin and subcutaneous soft tissues of amputation residual limbs are required to withstand externally applied loads of greater magnitude than similar tissues of the intact lower limb. increased age and poor circulatory status may contribute to the increased risk of tissue injury seen in this population. this study evaluates the effects of age and circulatory status as risk factors for skin injury resulting from externally applied forces. twelve young control (yc), six elderly control (oc) and 11 subjects with peripheral vascular disease (pvd) were studied. after base-line ankle arm index (aai) measurements, tcpo2 electrodes were applied 10 cm below the knee over the medial surface of the tibia and the muscle belly of tibialis anterior. tcpo2 measurements and tissue displacements were obtained under the influence of incremented, normally oriented, external loads. the sensitivity of the tissues to applied loads was determined by calculating the load at which the tcpo2 reached zero. the stiffness of the tissues (displacement/load) was calculated under high (greater than 40 mm hg) and low (less than 20 mm hg) loading conditions. no difference was noted in tissue sensitivity to applied loads between the oc and yc populations. the tcpo2 decreased to zero in the pvd population at significantly lower applied loads than both the oc and yc populations. the tissue stiffness of the pvd and the oc populations over bone was greater than the yc population, but no significant differences were noted between the pvd and the oc populations. in summary, increased age does not result in a greater tissue sensitivity to externally applied loads, in spite of the demonstrated increased tissue stiffness.
detection of somatic dna alterations in ovarian cancer by dna fingerprint analysis. the m13 phage single-strand dna probe which recognizes highly polymorphic loci was applied to hinfi-digested dna isolated from tumor tissue and peripheral leukocytes from 20 patients with ovarian cancer. an average of 22 minisatellite-containing dna fragments were observed per individual. dna fingerprint analysis revealed a change in restriction-fragment-length patterns in the dna from 12 of 20 (60%) tumors compared with the patient's constitutional dna. deletion of one or more bands from the tumor was recognized by the probe in seven cases, new bands were identified in two, and intensity shift was demonstrated in eight. the authors conclude that the unmapped m13 minisatellite probe is a useful method for identifying cancer-related somatic dna alterations.
apparent reduction in the size of one side of the face associated with a small retrosplenial haemorrhage. a 68 year old japanese female with unilateral metamorphopsia of the face that developed after a small haemorrhage in the contralateral retrosplenial region, is described. the patient claimed that the right side of a face, that is, the left side when looked at by the patient, appeared smaller than the left. in addition, her drawings of the face showed some distortions. objects other than the face were perceived normally. cranial ct scan revealed a small high density area in the right retrosplenial region. the face appears to have a special representation in the posterior hemisphere.
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989. we describe our pathologic study of skin, fascial, and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy, histochemistry, and electron microscopy. a perivascular, lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis, fascia, and skeletal muscle. lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen. ultrastructurally, capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present. this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome.
ischemic intestinal complications in patients with burns. enteral bacterial translocation has been implicated as a major cause of morbidity in instances of trauma, but little clinical evidence of the loss of intestinal mucosal integrity has been documented. a retrospective review of the medical and autopsy records of all patients admitted between 1982 and 1988 was performed to describe the incidence of intestinal pathologic findings. of all deaths, a total of 53 per cent of adults (greater than 18 years old) and 61 per cent of children (zero to 17 years old) were noted to have ischemic intestinal pathologic findings on autopsy, ranging from superficial necrosis to full thickness mucosal necrosis extending into the omentum. more than 80 per cent of these patients were septic at the time of death, with endogenous intestinal flora species most frequently identified as the causative agent. less than 1 per cent (n = 16) of the patients admitted were clinically identified with intestinal pathologic examination, surgically explored and underwent resection of the intestine. despite intervention, this group suffered a 69 per cent mortality rate. although the documentation of bacterial translocation in a human model may be obscured by other potential sources of contamination, for example, burn wound, in combination with the immunosuppression inherent to the thermally injured, may lead to bacterial contamination of the systemic circulation and, therefore, may be a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality after thermal injury.
ischemic intestinal complications in patients with burns. enteral bacterial translocation has been implicated as a major cause of morbidity in instances of trauma, but little clinical evidence of the loss of intestinal mucosal integrity has been documented. a retrospective review of the medical and autopsy records of all patients admitted between 1982 and 1988 was performed to describe the incidence of intestinal pathologic findings. of all deaths, a total of 53 per cent of adults (greater than 18 years old) and 61 per cent of children (zero to 17 years old) were noted to have ischemic intestinal pathologic findings on autopsy, ranging from superficial necrosis to full thickness mucosal necrosis extending into the omentum. more than 80 per cent of these patients were septic at the time of death, with endogenous intestinal flora species most frequently identified as the causative agent. less than 1 per cent (n = 16) of the patients admitted were clinically identified with intestinal pathologic examination, surgically explored and underwent resection of the intestine. despite intervention, this group suffered a 69 per cent mortality rate. although the documentation of bacterial translocation in a human model may be obscured by other potential sources of contamination, for example, burn wound, in combination with the immunosuppression inherent to the thermally injured, may lead to bacterial contamination of the systemic circulation and, therefore, may be a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality after thermal injury.
technique of photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms. phase i study. patients with disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms were given intra-abdominal photodynamic therapy. patients received dihematoporphyrin ethers intravenously 48 to 72 hours before laparotomy at doses of 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg. at operation, as much tumor as possible was resected. red light (630 nm) was delivered to all peritoneal surfaces from an argon-pumped dye laser at doses ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 j/cm2 in an escalating fashion. viscera and peritoneal surfaces were anatomically isolated and exposed to light for intervals calculated to deliver the prescribed energy. light was delivered to mesentery and bowel by a flat-cut optical fiber, while other areas, including diaphragm, viscera, omental bursa, gutters, and pelvis, were delivered light through a diffusing wand. twenty-three patients (13 with ovarian cancer, eight with sarcoma, and two with pseudomyxoma peritoneii) underwent photodynamic therapy. five of eight patients cleared positive peritoneal cytologies after treatment. six patients remained clinically free of disease for up to 18 months, and five patients had treatment-related complications. intraperitoneal phototherapy is technically feasible and deserving of clinical evaluation.
a high prevalence of antibody to the hepatitis c virus in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in japan. in japan, hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is one of the most prevalent cancers, with a reported fatality rate showing a consistent and significant increase in the last decade. at most, only 25% of hcc cases are positive for the hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag). to investigate a potential role for hepatitis c virus (hcv) in the development of hcc, sera from 105 hbsag-negative hcc patients were collected from five districts of japan and assayed for antibody to hcv antigen (hcvab). a large number of these patients (76.2%) were found to be positive for the hcvab in comparison with the reported prevalence in sera from blood donors (1.1%). a history of blood transfusion was found in 39.6% of the cases positive for hcvab, which was significantly different to the lower rate (4.7%) observed in hcc patients who were both positive for hbsag and negative for hcvab (p less than 0.001).
does intracoronary infusion of fluosol-da 20% prevent left ventricular diastolic dysfunction during coronary balloon angioplasty? distal intracoronary infusion of the perfluorochemical fluosol-da 20% has been shown to prevent systolic dysfunction during coronary artery balloon occlusion in coronary angioplasty. to assess its effect on global diastolic dysfunction, a randomized, single-blind, crossover protocol comparing intracoronary infusion of fluosol or no infusion (control) was performed during 60 s balloon inflations in 10 patients (mean age 67 years) undergoing coronary angioplasty. assessment of global systolic and diastolic function was obtained with high fidelity micromanometer measurements of left ventricular pressure. eighteen pairs of balloon inflations (fluosol versus control) were analyzed. patients reported significantly less severe chest pain during inflations accompanied by fluosol compared with control. however, during coronary balloon occlusion, no significant differences in the changes from baseline values were observed between fluosol and control with regard to ventricular relaxation, including the time constant of early ventricular relaxation (tau) and maximal rate of fall in left ventricular pressure (maximal negative dp/dt). no differences between fluosol and control were observed in terms of the increase in end-diastolic pressure or minimal diastolic pressure during balloon inflation. mean systolic pressure decrease from baseline values was greater during control than during fluosol inflations (-9.0 +/- 3.3 mm hg, p = 0.013), but no significant difference was observed in the change in maximal rate of rise in left ventricular pressure (maximal positive dp/dt). these results suggest that fluosol does not preserve global left ventricular diastolic function during coronary balloon occlusion, possibly because of its limited oxygen delivery capability relative to arterial blood.
clinical significance of plasminogen activator inhibitor activity in patients with exercise-induced ischemia. to assess the fibrinolytic system in patients with exercise-induced ischemia and its relation to ischemia and severity of coronary artery disease (cad), 47 patients with cad confirmed by results of coronary angiography underwent symptom-limited multistage exercise thallium-201 emission computed tomography. all patients with cad had exercise-induced ischemia as assessed from thallium-201 images. pre- and peak exercise blood samples from each patient and preexercise blood samples from control subjects were assayed for several fibrinolytic components and were also assayed for plasma adrenaline. the extent of ischemia was defined as delta visual uptake score (total visual uptake score in delayed images minus total visual uptake score in initial images) and the severity of cad as the number of diseased vessels. in the basal condition, plasminogen activator inhibitor (pai) activity was significantly higher in patients with exercise-induced ischemia as compared to control subjects (p less than 0.01), although there were no significant differences in other fibrinolytic variables between the two groups. moreover, pai activity in the basal condition displayed a significantly positive correlation with the extent of ischemia (r = 0.47, p less than 0.01). patients with exercise-induced ischemia were divided into two groups (24 with single-vessel disease and 23 with multivessel disease). there were no significant differences in coronary risk factors, hemodynamics, or plasma adrenaline levels during exercise between single-vessel and multivessel disease except that delta visual uptake score was significantly higher in multivessel disease (p less than 0.01).
mapping the distribution of amobarbital sodium in the intracarotid wada test by use of tc-99m hmpao with spect. the intracarotid amobarbital sodium, or wada, test has been used to localize speech and memory function prior to surgical treatment of temporal lobe seizures. the authors mixed technetium-99m hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime (hmpao) with amobarbital sodium and injected the mixture in 25 patients with epilepsy. single photon emission computed tomography (spect) of the brain was then performed to determine intracerebral distribution of the amobarbital sodium. results of spect were compared with those of conventional and digital subtraction angiography (dsa). the distribution of tc-99m hmpao and, presumably, amobarbital sodium varied from patient to patient. spect revealed a statistically different distribution from that predicted with conventional angiography. the distribution also often differed from that of dsa, although the difference was not significant. spect revealed infrequent delivery to mesial temporal lobe structures. this emphasizes the need for caution in the use of the intracarotid amobarbital sodium test to predict the outcome of removal of these areas.
geriatric endocarditis: avoiding the trend toward mismanagement. the average age of patients with endocarditis is increasing. it is becoming a disease of the elderly, especially related to use of prosthetic heart valves and iv lines or catheters associated with bacteremias. recognition is the major problem in the elderly patient since many features of the disorder are often attributed to aging. the diagnosis should be considered in the elderly patient with fever or other unexplained findings. blood cultures are indicated to prevent misdiagnosis.
determination of hepatitis b virus dna in serum using the polymerase chain reaction: clinical significance and correlation with serological and biochemical markers. sera from 98 patients with various stages of chronic hepatitis b virus infection were studied to determine the clinical significance of hepatitis b virus dna in serum detected by the polymerase chain reaction. patients were divided into three groups according to their hbsag and hbeag status. group i (n = 31) had detectable hbsag and hbeag, group ii (n = 46) had hbsag but not hbeag and group iii (n = 21) consisted of patients who were once chronic hepatitis b virus carriers but had lost hbsag during follow-up. group i patients usually had significant liver disease (raised serum aminotransferases), had higher titers of hbsag and had been infected with hepatitis b virus for a shorter period than patients in the other two groups. all patients in group i had hepatitis b virus dna detectable by polymerase chain reaction and 94% had sufficient hepatitis b virus dna present for detection by dot-blot hybridization. group ii patients had lower mean serum aminotransferase activities and titers of hbsag than those in group i. serum hepatitis b virus dna was detectable by polymerase chain reaction in 78% but in only 30% of group ii patients by dot-blot hybridization. group ii patients who did not have hepatitis b virus dna detectable by polymerase chain reaction had mean serum aminotransferase levels within the normal range and had a younger mean age than those with hepatitis b virus dna. group iii patients generally had no evidence of active liver disease.
mucosal intussusception to avoid ascending cholangitis. many methods have been devised to prevent ascending cholangitis following kasai's hepatic portoenterostomy for biliary atresia. to investigate the effectiveness of mucosal intussusception in preventing ascending cholangitis, 20 mongrel dogs were randomized to undergo roux-en-y cholecystjejunostomy and common bile duct ligation with or without mucosal intussusception. aeromonas hydrophila was instilled into the gastrointestinal tract. bacterial cultures were grown from samples taken from the gallbladders and lower jejunum, and blood chemistry and barium studies were performed. the barium studies showed satisfactory lack of reflux in all ten dogs with mucosal intussusception. only two of them had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder 3 days after bacterial instillation into the jejunum. all ten dogs in the control group had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder. our results showed that the mucosal intussusception group had a significantly lower rate of recovery of organisms from the gallbladder compared with the control group when the organisms were instilled into distal intestine (p less than 0.05). the method is worthy of clinical trial as a means of preventing or treating ascending cholangitis.
effect of atenolol and diltiazem on heart period variability in normal persons. several time and frequency domain measures of heart period variability are reduced 1 to 2 weeks after myocardial infarction, and a reduced standard deviation of normal rr intervals over a 24 h period (sdnn) is associated with increased mortality. the predictive accuracy of heart period variability may be reduced by drugs used to treat patients after myocardial infarction. accordingly, a randomized, three period, placebo-controlled, crossover (latin square) design was used to determine the effect of atenolol and diltiazem on time and frequency measures of heart period variability calculated from 24 h continuous electrocardiographic recordings during treatment with atenolol, diltiazem and placebo in 18 normal volunteers. during atenolol treatment, the 24 h average normal rr (nn) interval increased 24% (p less than 0.001). the three measures of tonic vagal activity were significantly increased (p less than 0.001) during atenolol treatment: percent of successive normal rr intervals greater than 50 ms = 69%, root mean square successive difference of normal rr intervals = 61% and high frequency power in the heart period power spectrum = 84%. low frequency power also increased 45% (p less than 0.01), indicating that this variable also is an indicator of tonic vagal activity over 24 h. diltiazem had no significant effect on the 24 h average nn interval or on any measure of heart period variability. the decreased mortality rate after myocardial infarction associated with beta-adrenergic blocker but not calcium channel blocker therapy may be attributed in part to an increase in vagal tone caused by beta-blockers.
disruption of the human scl locus by "illegitimate" v-(d)-j recombinase activity. a fusion complementary dna in the t cell line hsb-2 elucidates a provocative mechanism for the disruption of the putative hematopoietic transcription factor scl. the fusion cdna results from an interstitial deletion between a previously unknown locus, sil (scl interrupting locus), and the 5' untranslated region of scl. similar to 1;14 translocations, this deletion disrupts the scl 5' regulatory region. this event is probably mediated by v-(d)-j recombinase activity, although neither locus is an immunoglobulin or a t cell receptor. two other t cell lines, cem and rpmi 8402, have essentially identical deletions. thus, in lymphocytes, growth-affecting genes other than immune receptors risk rearrangements.
treatable abdominal pathologic conditions and unsuspected malignant neoplasms at autopsy in veterans who received mechanical ventilation. study objective: to determine, in medical patients who received mechanical ventilation, the frequency and types of major unexpected diagnoses at autopsy that, if known before death, would probably have led to improved survival (class i errors) or substantively changed management but not survival (class iib errors). design: retrospective cohort study. setting: six medical intensive care units in a department of veterans affairs cooperative study. patients: one hundred seventy-two autopsied patients of the 401 veterans who received mechanical ventilation and died in the hospital. results: the class i error rate was 12%. abdominal pathologic conditions--abscesses, bowel perforations, or infarction--were as frequent as pulmonary emboli as a cause of class i errors. while patients with abdominal pathologic conditions generally complained of abdominal pain, results of examination of the abdomen were considered unremarkable in most patients, and the symptom was not pursued. six percent of patients had extensive malignant neoplasms (class iib errors). conclusions: atypical presentation of potentially treatable abdominal pathologic conditions is a common cause of class i errors in veterans who receive mechanical ventilation. conversely, several patients with unrecognized terminal conditions underwent intensive intervention. if the information gained at autopsy had been known before death, management would have probably changed substantively in 18% of patients.
round fingerpad sign: an early sign of scleroderma. we describe a clinical skin sign in scleroderma termed round fingerpad sign. this term refers to disappearance of the peaked contour on fingerpads and replacement with a hemisphere-like fingertip contour; this change is especially apparent on the ring fingers. a positive round fingerpad sign was found in 72 of 72 ring fingers in 36 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis in 69 of 72 ring fingers in patients with mixed connective tissue disease, and in 24 of 24 ring fingers of patients with raynaud's phenomenon and sclerodactyly. in contrast, a negative round fingerpad sign was seen in 240 of 240 fingers in normal women (controls). the high sensitivity of this sign is noteworthy. a positive round fingerpad was seen in sign not only typical scleroderma patients but also in groups with less severe skin sclerosis (i.e., in those patients with mixed connective tissue disease or those with raynaud's phenomenon and sclerodactyly). the sign is a new and useful clinical marker for the early diagnosis of scleroderma.
acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria. enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage. rarely, in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity, enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure. we report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea. one patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea. both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition. the mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion. enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction.
multicenter registry of angioplasty therapy of cardiogenic shock: initial and long-term survival. this retrospective multicenter study reviews the role of acute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in the treatment of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction to determine whether early reperfusion affects in-hospital and long-term survival. from 1982 to 1985, 69 patients were treated with emergency angioplasty to attempt reperfusion of the infarct-related artery. balloon angioplasty was unsuccessful in 20 patients (group 1) and successful in 49 patients (group 2). initial clinical and angiographic findings in the groups with unsuccessful and successful angioplasty were similar with respect to age (60.5 +/- 2.3 versus 57 +/- 1.8 years), infarct location (65% versus 65% anterior) and gender (65% versus 67% male). hemodynamic variables in the two groups, including systolic blood pressure (68 +/- 4.3 versus 73 +/- 1.6 mm hg), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (24.4 +/- 2.4 versus 27 +/- 1.0 mm hg) and initial ejection fraction (28.5 +/- 4% versus 32 +/- 2%), were also similar. twenty-nine patients received thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase; the overall rate of reperfusion was 34%. group 1 patients had a short-term survival rate of 20%, compared with 69% in group 2 patients (p less than 0.0005). thirty-eight patients survived the hospital period and were followed up for 24 to 54 months (mean 32.5 +/- 2.4). five patients (all in group 2) died during follow-up. the long-term incidence rate of congestive heart failure was 19%, arrhythmia 21%, need for repeat angioplasty 17% and coronary artery bypass grafting 26%. twenty-four month survival was significantly better in group 2 patients (54%) versus group 1 patients (11%, p = 0.003).
swallowing disorders in patients with prolonged orotracheal intubation or tracheostomy tubes. eleven patients were tested for swallowing dysfunction after prolonged orotracheal intubation. ten had a tracheostomy tube. mean duration of orotracheal intubation was 19.9 days, mean age 65 yr, and no patient had a concomitant neurologic deficit. all patients had a modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy. all patients had at least one defect of 11 defects characterized. there was a mean of six defects/patient. the most common defects were delayed triggering of the swallow response (present in all patients) and pharyngeal pooling of contrast material (n = 9). follow-up videofluoroscopy was performed in five patients (all had improved) with mean defects decreasing from 6.1 to 2.8/patient. with one exception, no patient had any defect that was worse than mild in severity. we concluded that prolonged orotracheal intubation with or without tracheostomy may cause prolonged and severe swallowing dysfunction. the deficits improve with time. the presence of a gag reflex does not confer protection against aspiration of pharyngeal contrast.
late noninvasive evaluation of cardiac performance in mildly symptomatic older patients with ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve: role of radionuclide imaging. ten patients 8 to 54 years of age with isolated ebstein's anomaly of the tricuspid valve were evaluated by electrocardiography, maximal exercise treadmill testing, 24 h electrocardiographic (ecg) monitoring, echocardiography and rest radionuclide imaging of the left ventricle. the patients presented after the 1st year of life and had not undergone surgical intervention. all except one were in functional class ii. no patient had preexcitation on the surface ecg, but abnormal tachyarrhythmias or bradyarrhythmias were seen in five patients on 24 h ecg monitoring. subnormal exercise performance was observed in five patients. echocardiography demonstrated typical variable tricuspid valve displacement and paradoxic interventricular septal motion. left ventricular end-diastolic dimensions were normal in all patients, but posterior wall motion was reduced in two. moderate to severe tricuspid regurgitation with a doppler jet velocity less than 2.5 m/s was demonstrated in eight patients. left ventricular radionuclide scintigraphy revealed a subnormal ejection fraction (less than 50%) in 5 of 10 patients; these 5 had previously shown suboptimal exercise performance. the two youngest patients (less than 15 years) had no arrhythmia, normal exercise performance and normal left ventricular ejection fraction. there was no correlation between the degree of tricuspid valve displacement or regurgitation and the presence of rhythm disturbance, exercise performance or radionuclide left ventricular function. late evaluation of patients with ebstein's anomaly may demonstrate significant unsuspected abnormalities in cardiac rhythm, exercise performance and left ventricular function. radionuclide scintigraphy is a useful noninvasive technique for assessing left ventricular dysfunction in these patients.
hypoxemia alone does not explain blood pressure elevations after obstructive apneas. in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa), substantial elevations of systemic blood pressure (bp) and depressions of oxyhemoglobin saturation (sao2) accompany apnea termination. the causes of the bp elevations, which contribute significantly to nocturnal hypertension in osa, have not been defined precisely. to assess the relative contribution of arterial hypoxemia, we observed mean arterial pressure (map) changes following obstructive apneas in 11 osa patients during non-rapid-eye-movement (nrem) sleep and then under three experimental conditions: 1) apnea with o2 supplementation; 2) hypoxemia (sao2 80%) without apnea; and 3) arousal from sleep with neither hypoxemia nor apnea. we found that apneas recorded during o2 supplementation (sao2 nadir 93.6% +/- 2.4; mean +/- sd) in six subjects were associated with equivalent postapneic map elevations compared with unsupplemented apneas (sao2 nadir 79-82%): 18.8 +/- 7.1 vs. 21.3 +/- 9.2 mmhg (mean change map +/- sd); in the absence of respiratory and sleep disruption in eight subjects, hypoxemia was not associated with the bp elevations observed following apneas: -5.4 +/- 19 vs. 19.1 +/- 7.8 mmhg (p less than 0.01); and in five subjects, auditory arousal alone was associated with map elevation similar to that observed following apneas: 24.0 +/- 8.1 vs. 22.0 +/- 6.9 mmhg. we conclude that in nrem sleep postapneic bp elevations are not primarily attributable to arterial hypoxemia. other factors associated with apnea termination, including arousal from sleep, reinflation of the lungs, and changes of intrathoracic pressure, may be responsible for these elevations.
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease (the framingham study). the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta, as detected on chest x-rays, and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort (n = 5,209). the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age, with only a trivial male predominance. its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65, even after other risk factors were taken into account. similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease, stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women. in middle-aged men these risks were less marked. the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age. risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years. these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process. the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac, cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation.
kawasaki-like syndrome after treatment with mesalazine. we report a patient who developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction, including rash, lymph node enlargement, fever, hepatitis, and eosinophilia, after sulphasalazine therapy. five years later, he developed a similar reaction after exposure to mesalazine, the salicylic compound of sulphasalazine. we conclude that patients with known severe systemic reaction to sulphasalazine therapy are also at risk for such a reaction when treated with a 5-asa preparation.
effects of endotracheal suctioning on mixed venous oxygen saturation and heart rate in critically ill adults. the purpose of this multisite study was to determine the effects of endotracheal suctioning on mixed venous oxygen saturation (svo2) and heart rate in 189 critically ill adults. one-pass, intermittent suction was applied for 10 or fewer seconds, with three prehyperoxygenation and three posthyperoxygenation breaths of 100% oxygen. subjects at three hospitals (n = 127) underwent suctioning using hyperoxygenation with anesthesia bags and traditional suction catheters (open suction method). subjects at one hospital (n = 62) underwent suctioning with hyperoxygenation by ventilator and in-line suction catheters (closed suction method). for subjects from all hospital sites combined, the svo2 decreased from 67% to 64% (p = 0.001), a 4% change from baseline, and returned to baseline within 2 minutes. however, in subjects receiving the open method of suction, svo2 dropped from 66% to 62% immediately after suctioning and returned to baseline within 4 minutes. in contrast, when the closed suction method was used, svo2 rose from 67.7% to 67.86% immediately after suctioning, drifting upward to 71% for the next 2 minutes before dropping toward the baseline after 4 minutes. mean heart rate increased from a baseline of 99 beats/min to 104 beats/min immediately after suctioning (p = 0.001), a 5% change from baseline, and gradually returned to baseline over the next 4 minutes. no significant differences were seen in heart rate between subjects having the open versus closed suction method. in conclusion, the closed suction method showed a higher svo2 after endotracheal suctioning compared with the open suction method (p = 0.0001). some form of hyperoxygenation before and after endotracheal suctioning is recommended.
hemibody irradiation in advanced prostatic carcinoma. in summary, hemibody irradiation has developed as a safe, efficient technique for palliating multiple sites of symptomatic osseous metastases, which occur so often in advanced prostatic carcinoma. the rapidity, frequency, and duration of pain relief, as well as the convenience to the patient of a solitary treatment to multiple symptomatic areas simultaneously, make this type of treatment especially appealing. by following premedication and radiation dose guidelines, both acute and delayed side effects can be kept tolerable or at a minimal incidence. although sequential hemibody radiation has also been explored as "systemic" therapy, the results in prostatic carcinoma have not proved dramatic, and complications have been considerable. hormonal therapy would certainly seem to be less life-threatening and equally beneficial according to present data. as a palliative treatment, however, hemibody irradiation is a pragmatic option for relieving prostatic cancer pain.
assessment of the critical level of androgen for growth response of transplantable human prostatic carcinoma (pc-82) in nude mice. the androgen dependent prostatic carcinoma of human origin, pc-82, was used as a model system to investigate the effect of various levels of androgen on the growth of prostatic tumor tissue. plasma testosterone levels in mice were correlated to tumor growth and intratumor concentrations of testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone. pc-82 tumor burden remained stable at plasma testosterone levels of 0.8 nmol/l., whereas tumor growth occurred at higher levels and tumor regression was observed at lower plasma levels. this critical level of testosterone corresponded with intratumor testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone concentrations of six to 10 and three to four pmol/gm. tissue, respectively, which are significantly above the levels found in castrated non-supplemented animals (3.1 and 1.4 pmol/gm. respectively). this indicates that remaining concentrations of dihydrotestosterone, which amount to two to three times the castrate level, are not stimulatory for tumor growth in the model of the androgen dependent pc-82 tumor.
the utility of echocardiography in the diagnostic strategy of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture: a comparison of two-dimensional echocardiography versus doppler color flow imaging. the diagnostic accuracy of doppler color flow imaging in the diagnosis of postinfarction ventricular septal defects has not been established. in this study, 43 patients with unexplained hypotension or a new murmur in the periinfarct period were evaluated with conventional two-dimensional echocardiography and doppler color flow imaging. the presence of a ventricular septal defect was confirmed by oximetry, ventriculography, operative repair, or autopsy in each case. both two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging were 100% specific in excluding a ventricular septal defect. doppler color flow imaging correctly identified the 12 confirmed ventricular septal defects in this study (100% sensitivity), whereas any combination of two-dimensional criteria only correctly identified seven (58% sensitive) (p less than 0.05). doppler color flow imaging is superior to conventional two-dimensional imaging in the diagnosis of a postinfarction ventricular septal defect. in addition, doppler color flow imaging localized the septal defect, and thus guided therapy and technique for repair. carefully performed doppler color flow examination can exclude or result in the rapid diagnosis of a ventricular septal defect, which eliminates the need for further time-consuming confirmatory testing.
elevated serum tumor markers in patients with testicular cancer after induction chemotherapy due to a reservoir of markers in cystic differentiated mature teratoma. elevated serum tumor markers in patients with testicular cancer after induction chemotherapy indicate in most instances the presence of residual malignant disease. we describe 2 patients with elevated tumor markers after chemotherapy and before retroperitoneal lymph node dissection who did not prove to have residual malignant disease but cystic differentiated mature teratoma with a high content of alpha-fetoprotein and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin, respectively, in the cysts. it is postulated that leakage of the contents of these cysts to the plasma compartment was responsible for maintaining elevated serum tumor marker levels. recognition of such entities is of consequence since unnecessary salvage chemotherapy in these patients may be avoided.
clinical course of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated glomerulonephritis and systemic vasculitis. the glomerular disease collaborative network objectives: to determine the spectrum of clinical manifestations in patients with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (anca)-associated glomerulonephritis; to determine renal and patient survival in these patients; to compare survival among patients treated with corticosteroids alone, corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide or corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide; and to assess the correlation of disease manifestations and treatment response with anca subtypes and serial autoantibody titers. design: inception cohort study; mean follow-up of 24 months. setting: collaborative network of 120 university and private practice nephrologists (the glomerular disease collaborative network). participants: seventy patients with anca and pauci-immune necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis, of whom 59 were treated with either corticosteroids alone (14 patients), corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide (30 patients), or corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide (15 patients). main results: of the 70 patients, 18 had renal-limited disease (idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis); 15, nonpulmonary extrarenal disease consistent with polyarteritis nodosa; and 37, pulmonary disease consistent with wegener granulomatosis or alveolar capillaritis. there were overlapping manifestations of disease between patients with autoantibodies producing a cytoplasmic pattern and patients with autoantibodies producing a perinuclear pattern; however, the perinuclear pattern occurred more frequently in patients with renal-limited disease. renal and patient survival was 75% at 24 months, and no difference in survival was seen between patients with renal-limited disease and those with systemic disease. no differences in survival were seen between patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and those treated with intravenous cyclophosphamide; however, the comparative data from patients treated with corticosteroids alone were inconclusive. in general, autoantibody titers correlated with response to treatment and disease activity, but there were exceptions. conclusions: patients with anca have various forms of necrotizing vascular inflammation, ranging from renal-limited disease to widespread systemic vasculitis, including polyarteritis nodosa and wegener granulomatosis. oral corticosteroids with either oral or intravenous cyclophosphamide appear to be equally effective therapy for anca-associated glomerulonephritis.
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites. spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella is uncommon. we report three patients with ascites infected by salmonella. all three patients had advanced chronic liver disease, typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension. salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients. there was no clinical or microbiological evidence of salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid. one patient died before antibiotic treatment was started, but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs. one of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization, and the other survived.
acute biologic response to excimer versus thermal laser angioplasty in experimental atherosclerosis. vascular injury and platelet accumulation after balloon angioplasty are two potentially important triggers of the process of restenosis that may be minimized by the use of laser energy to ablate atherosclerotic plaque. the type of laser most suitable to achieve these goals remains unknown. accordingly, angiographic and histologic studies and quantitative platelet deposition analysis were performed on 27 atherosclerotic rabbit iliac arteries randomized to treatment with excimer laser or thermal laser angioplasty. excimer laser angioplasty was achieved with 35 to 40 mj/mm2 of 308 nm xenon chloride irradiation delivered through a 4.5f catheter made of 13 concentrically arranged 200 microns fiber optics, at a repetition rate of 25 to 30 hz and a pulse duration of 135 ns; thermal laser angioplasty was achieved with a 1.7 mm metal probe heated with 10 w of continuous wave argon laser energy. the baseline and post-laser luminal diameters of excimer laser-treated vessels (0.92 +/- 0.28 and 1.56 +/- 0.48 mm, respectively) were similar to those observed in thermal laser-treated vessels (1.05 +/- 0.44 and 1.61 +/- 0.41 mm, respectively). perforation occurred in 4 (29%) of 14 thermal laser-treated arteries and in 0 of 13 excimer laser-treated arteries (p = 0.04); spasm was observed in only 1 thermal laser-treated vessel. on the basis of a quantitative histologic grading scheme (damage scores of 0 to 4), greater degrees of injury were measured in thermal versus excimer laser-treated vessels (2.4 +/- 1.0 versus 1.3 +/- 0.4, p = 0.009).
in vivo ultraviolet irradiation of human skin results in profound perturbation of the immune system. relevance to ultraviolet-induced skin cancer [published erratum appears in arch dermatol 1991 sep;127(9):1368] ultraviolet exposure of human skin deletes the function of antigen-presenting langerhans cells normally resident within the epidermis. langerhans cells are capable of activating t-lymphocytes by presenting antigens (such as nickel or tumor antigens) to t-lymphocytes. such activated t-lymphocytes may be involved in the development of contact dermatitis and the immune surveillance of immunogenic skin cancers. deletion of the function of langerhans cells does not result in abrogated epidermal antigen presentation since ultraviolet irradiation simultaneously induces the appearance of another epidermal antigen-presenting cell population that is distinct from the langerhans cell population and seems to induce suppression of the immune response. suppression of the immune response following ultraviolet irradiation in murine models is critical for growth of immunogenic ultraviolet-induced skin neoplasm. thus, ultraviolet irradiation of human skin may facilitate the growth of human neoplasms, and the spreading of skin-associated infections due to induction of suppressor t cells.
reoperation for recurrent peptic ulcer disease. the patient with recurrent peptic ulcer evidences failure of an initial operation to control the ulcer diathesis. a trial of aggressive medical therapy is warranted in elective presentations and has a moderate chance of success. failing this, we believe that reoperation should be tailored to the patient's physiologic status and previous operation (table 5). nevertheless, in most cases, we believe that the second operation should be the final operation and should consist of the procedure with the lowest recurrence rates. therefore, we believe that the assurance of an adequate antrectomy and complete vagal section is the preferred procedure for most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer.
reliability of stimulated and spontaneous growth hormone (gh) levels for identifying the child with low gh secretion. the reliability of stimulated and spontaneous gh levels for identifying the child with low gh secretion has been the subject of debate. we compared the ability of gh concentrations after pharmacological stimulation with levodopa and clonidine and of spontaneous peak and 12-h pooled gh concentrations during sleep on a single night to estimate the maximum spontaneous gh secretion from 2 nights in 55 children, aged 5-16 yr, with heights below the 3rd percentile and/or height velocities below the 25th percentile for age, who had two consecutive overnight gh secretory profiles. maximum stimulated gh concentrations correctly categorized 80% of children who had maximum spontaneous gh concentrations above and below 4 micrograms/l using a double monoclonal immunoradiometric assay for gh (tandem-r hgh, hybritech). the remaining 20% of children had stimulated gh concentrations below but spontaneous gh concentrations above 4 micrograms/l. using this cut-off, the maximum gh concentrations from the first and second nights correctly categorized 98% and 95% of the children, respectively. night to night variation in gh secretion was low in children who had low spontaneous gh secretion (maximum spontaneous peak and pool gh concentrations, less than 4 and less than or equal to 0.7 micrograms/l, respectively), and pooled gh concentrations from the 2 nights were concordant in 98% of the cases. we conclude that it is not uncommon for stimulated gh concentrations to underestimate spontaneous gh secretion. even without acclimatization to the hospital setting, measurement of spontaneous gh secretion on a single night was more reliable for identifying the child with low endogenous gh secretion than was gh stimulation testing alone.
cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis. cholangiocarcinoma is more likely to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. our aims were to describe the clinical presentation, course, and management of patients afflicted with both cholangiocarcinoma and primary sclerosing cholangitis and to estimate the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. a retrospective analysis was conducted of 30 patients with both primary sclerosing cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma managed at our institution during an 8-year period. development of cholangiocarcinoma was heralded by rapid clinical deterioration with jaundice, weight loss, and abdominal discomfort. cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis often was detected at an advanced tumor stage, which precluded effective therapy, and overall median survival was 5 months. earlier recognition and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma in such patients will be necessary to increase survival rates. seventy patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were followed prospectively in a clinical trial of medical therapy for an average of 30 months. twelve patients died and five were found at autopsy to have cholangiocarcinoma. the potential for cholangiocarcinoma to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis may indicate that liver transplantation should be considered earlier in the course of the disease.
a model to predict multivessel coronary artery disease from the exercise thallium-201 stress test. purpose: the aim of this study was to (1) determine whether nonimaging variables add to the diagnostic information available from exercise thallium-201 images for the detection of multivessel coronary artery disease; and (2) to develop a model based on the exercise thallium-201 stress test to predict the presence of multivessel disease. patients and methods: the study populations included 383 patients referred to the university of virginia and 325 patients referred to the massachusetts general hospital for evaluation of chest pain. all patients underwent both cardiac catheterization and exercise thallium-201 stress testing between 1978 and 1981. results: in the university of virginia cohort, at each level of thallium-201 abnormality (no defects, one defect, more than one defect), st depression and patient age added significantly in the detection of multivessel disease. logistic regression analysis using data from these patients identified three independent predictors of multivessel disease: initial thallium-201 defects, st depression, and age. a model was developed to predict multivessel disease based on these variables. as might be expected, the risk of multivessel disease predicted by the model was similar to that actually observed in the university of virginia population. more importantly, however, the model was accurate in predicting the occurrence of multivessel disease in the unrelated population studied at the massachusetts general hospital. conclusion: it is, therefore, concluded that (1) nonimaging variables (age and exercise-induced st depression) add independent information to thallium-201 imaging data in the detection of multivessel disease; and (2) a model has been developed based on the exercise thallium-201 stress test that can accurately predict the probability of multivessel disease in other populations.
tarsal tunnel syndrome. causes and results of operative treatment. from 1975 to 1988, operative treatment was performed on 50 feet in 45 patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome. the causes of this syndrome were correlated with operative findings and included ganglia in 18, and a bony prominence from talocalcaneal coalition in 15. five feet had sustained an injury, tumours were found in three and there was no obvious cause in nine. in most cases in need of operative treatment, there was a space-occupying lesion. classifying the results according to causes, those with coalition or a tumour fared better, and idiopathic and traumatic cases had a worse outcome. in cases with a definite lesion, an excellent result can be expected from surgical treatment carried out soon after onset of the condition.
effect of prior cancer chemotherapy on human tumor-specific cytotoxicity in vitro in response to immunopotentiating biologic response modifiers. tumor-specific cytotoxicity was measured in fresh human biopsy specimens by a modification of the differential staining cytotoxicity assay. imuvert, a cytokine inducer derived from serratia marcescens, which produces broad-spectrum activation of both macrophages and lymphocytes, was dramatically more effective when it was tested in tumors obtained from patients with previously treated, chemotherapy-responsive adenocarcinomas (breast and ovary) than when it was tested in tumors obtained from either previously untreated patients or previously treated patients with chemotherapy-refractory adenocarcinomas (colon, lung, pancreas, stomach, kidney, gallbladder, uterus, and prostate). similar findings, relating to prior chemotherapy treatment status, were obtained for tumor necrosis factor and interferon gamma, but not for interleukin-2 or interferon alpha. on the basis of these findings and on other evidence in the literature, we speculate that response to chemotherapy produces massive release and processing of tumor antigens. we further speculate that this response leads to a state in which the human immune system is primed (via in situ vaccination) to respond to exogenous macrophage-activation signals with potent, specific antitumor effects.
surveillance of in situ infrainguinal bypass grafts: conventional vs. color flow duplex ultrasonography. surveillance of in situ saphenous vein bypass grafts with duplex scanning detects graft abnormalities which may lead to graft thrombosis. correction of these defects, while grafts are still patent, potentially improves overall graft patency. in this study we compared color flow and conventional duplex to determine whether color flow provided additional information not obtainable by conventional duplex examination. the primary patency rate (patency maintained without intervention) for all 51 cases was 76% (39/51). the secondary patency rate (patency maintained by identification and correction of graft defects before failure) was 88% (45/51). duplex scanning reduced the graft failure rate by 50%. color flow and conventional duplex examination provided the same information regarding incipient graft failure. in 20 patients monitored with both techniques, the same number of proximal (100%) and distal (90%) anastomoses were imaged. the same number of graft defects (three vein graft stenoses, one proximal femoral artery stenosis) were identified. velocity data obtained using the two techniques (peak systolic velocity in an area of stenosis and the duplex velocity ratio) were not always the same, making calculation of percent stenosis from this data inaccurate. color flow duplex is useful in monitoring graft patency, but provides no additional information over that provided by conventional scanning.
occlusive arterial disease as a form of presentation of homocystinuria. homocystinuria was first described in 1962. the disease affects several systems including the eyes, skeletal and nervous and vascular systems. we present the case of a 28-year old woman who presented with a severe occlusive arteriopathy. screening for the most usual causes of arterial disease in young patients was negative, but a study of aminoaciduria and column chromatography confirmed the diagnosis of b6-responsive homocystinuria. although it was necessary to amputate her left leg, the patient remains asymptomatic 16 months after b6 therapy was started.
coronary and left ventricular hemodynamic responses following reversal of flunitrazepam-induced sedation with flumazenil in patients with coronary artery disease. the effects of reversal of flunitrazepam-induced sedation with flumazenil on coronary hemodynamics, myocardial oxygen consumption (mvo2), and left ventricular (lv) performance were investigated, in a double-blind trial, in 12 patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing cardiac catheterization. coronary sinus blood flow was measured by continuous thermodilution. arterial and coronary sinus blood were analyzed for oxygen and lactate contents. the determinants of lv performance were obtained from the cardiac output measured by thermodilution and from left heart catheterization data. to reverse flunitrazepam-induced sedation, patients were randomly allocated to receive placebo or flumazenil (by increment, up to 1 mg) at the end of procedure. in the placebo group, no significant hemodynamic changes were observed. in the flumazenil group, heart rate, cardiac index, maximum velocity of shortening, and relaxation time constant were not significantly altered. by contrast, mean aortic pressure and lv end-diastolic pressure (baselines: 90 +/- 5 and 7.3 +/- 4.1 mmhg, respectively) increased (9%, p less than 0.05 and 67%, p less than 0.05, respectively) after flumazenil administration, but these changes represented mainly a return toward presedation values. mvo2 and coronary resistance were not significantly altered, whereas csbf increased slightly (baseline: 119 +/- 20 ml/min; increase 10%, p less than 0.05). no electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial ischemia was observed during the study. these data show that reversal of benzodiazepine effects with flumazenil is not associated with a major alteration of lv systolic function, relaxation, or coronary hemodynamics in patients with coronary artery disease. nevertheless, it should be cautiously used when lv end-diastolic pressure is increased at the time of its administration.
unilateral hydrocephalus in adults. the authors report 14 cases of unilateral hydrocephalus in adults. headache was the most common presenting symptom. unilateral hydrocephalus was documented in each patient with computed tomography scans; magnetic resonance imaging was also used in seven patients in the latter part of the series. unilateral hydrocephalus was caused by tumor (seven patients), venous angioma (one patient), ependymal cyst (one patient), postinflammatory gliosis (one patient), and was idiopathic in four patients. the primary surgical treatment was craniotomy with fenestration of the septum pellucidum, which relieved symptoms in eight of nine patients for whom long-term follow-up data were available.
immediate versus delayed shoulder exercises after axillary lymph node dissection. a total of 144 evaluable patients with breast cancer were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, prospective study to establish the role of delayed shoulder exercises on wound drainage and shoulder function after axillary lymph node dissection. patients in group 1 (n = 78) started active shoulder exercises 1 day postoperatively. patients in group 2 (n = 66) started on the eight postoperative day, following 1 week of immobilization of the arm. patients in group 2 had 14% less wound drainage volume than those in group 1 (600 +/- 436 ml versus 701 +/- 398 ml); this difference, however, was not significant. also, no differences could be established between the two groups when duration and volume of wound drainage, number and volume of seroma aspirations, wound complication rates, and shoulder function were compared 6 months after surgery.
standards for analysis of ventricular late potentials using high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography. a statement by a task force committee of the european society of cardiology, the american heart association, and the american college of cardiology. sufficient data are available to recommend the use of the high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiogram in patients recovering from myocardial infarction without bundle branch block to help determine their risk for developing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. however, no data are available about the extent to which pharmacological or nonpharmacological interventions in patients with late potentials have an impact on the incidence of sudden cardiac death. therefore, controlled, prospective studies are required before this issue can be resolved. as refinements in techniques evolve, it is anticipated that the clinical value of high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography will continue to increase.
does paramedic-base hospital contact result in beneficial deviations from standard prehospital protocols? we reviewed written and audio records of paramedic-base hospital radio contact to determine whether care differed from that suggested in standard prehospital care protocols. records of all 659 contacts for seizure, syncope, abdominal pain, or altered mental state during 1987 (28.4% of all contacts) were scored for the use of standard therapies (such as intravenous access, oxygen, naloxone hydrochloride) and unanticipated therapies (intubation, nitroglycerin). cases that involved unanticipated treatments were reviewed to determine whether they could have been prospectively identified by simple clinical findings. standard therapies were used in the majority of patients. unanticipated therapies were administered to 13 patients, all of whom had abnormal vital signs, diaphoresis, respiratory distress, or a second prominent symptom. data suggest that protocols could replace radio contact for most patients and that the few who might benefit from radio contact can be easily identified. a 90% reduction in radio contacts in los angeles county could save $3 million each year.
limits of brain tolerance to daily increments in serum sodium in chronically hyponatraemic rats treated with hypertonic saline or urea: advantages of urea. 1. at present there is no consensus about the optimal management of hyponatraemia to prevent demyelinating brain lesions. we have evaluated in a large series of rats (n = 136) the protective role of urea for the brain in the treatment of severe chronic hyponatraemia. urea (group i, n = 51) was compared with hypertonic saline in boluses (group ii, n = 46) and with hypertonic saline in divided doses (group iii, n = 39). treatment was administered intraperitoneally over 48 h. the severity of brain lesions was assessed by histological scoring. 2. for 95% of the injured animals treated with hypertonic saline, brain lesions appeared for an absolute increment in serum na+ concentration (delta sna+) of 20 mmol day-1 l-1. above this limit neurological injuries gradually worsened, and beyond a transition zone (delta sna+ greater than or equal to 20 less than or equal to 23 mmol day-1 l-1) 89% (group iii) to 100% (group ii) of the animals were injured. this limit can be reached rapidly, as attested by the comparable severity of brain lesions observed in group ii (mean delta sna+ 1 h after a bolus injection, 19 mmol/l) and in group iii (mean delta sna+ 1 h after an injection, 2 mmol/l), both groups achieving similar daily delta sna+. 3. a correction above the threshold of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 is as toxic during the first 24 h as during the second day of the treatment.
stroke in systemic lupus erythematosus [published erratum appears in stroke 1991 mar;22(3):417] we investigated the clinical and pathologic characteristics of stroke in 234 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. thirteen patients (5.6%) developed cerebrovascular disease. cerebral infarction was noted in eight, cerebral hemorrhage in two, and subarachnoid hemorrhage in three. in seven (54%) of these 13 patients, stroke occurred less than or equal to 5 years after systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed. among the predisposing risk factors for stroke, hypertension was the most important. lupus anticoagulant was detected in three (38%) and anticardiolipin antibody in three (43% of seven investigated) of the patients with infarction. evaluation of the clinical manifestations and autoantibodies indicated that renal involvement and high titers of anti-deoxyribonucleic acid antibody were more frequent in the stroke group than in the non-stroke group. autopsy studies on six of the patients with stroke revealed small infarcts and hemorrhages in all, but in no case was true angiitis observed. libman-sacks endocarditis was found in two of the three patients with infarction. in conclusion, the important contributory factor to the development of stroke in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is considered to be hypertension mediated by immunologic abnormalities. antiphospholipid antibodies and libman-sacks endocarditis are closely associated with occlusive cerebrovascular disease.
toxic shock syndrome associated with use of latex nasal packing. we treated a previously healthy young man who developed toxic shock syndrome 2 days after elective septoplasty with nonabsorbent latex packing. this case emphasizes that non-menstrual wound-associated toxic shock syndrome can occur after surgery that does not involve absorbent splinting or packing and should be considered in patients who present within a few days after surgery with fever, sunburnlike rash, hypotension, and multisystem complaints and laboratory abnormalities.
follow-up of infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for newborn respiratory failure. follow-up studies were conducted to assess the medical and developmental outcome of 92 infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation at the university of michigan. of 118 near-term (greater than 34 weeks' gestation) infants who received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, 103 (87%) were surviving and available for follow-up at between 1 and 7 years of age. ninety-two of these children were seen on at least one occasion. each visit included a history and physical examination, an evaluation by a physical therapist, and developmental testing by a pediatric psychologist. medical outcome during year 1 found 31% of the children rehospitalized, primarily with respiratory illness. outpatient-treated lower respiratory tract illness was seen in an additional 31% of the children. new or nonstatic neurologic problems were noted in 6% of the children. abnormal growth during year 1 occurred in 26% of the children. at last clinic visit 16% of the children exhibited moderate-to-severe neurologic abnormalities, and 8% had moderate-to-severe cognitive delay. sensorineural hearing loss occurred in 4% of children. nine percent of the children were receiving speech and language therapy; screening tests showed that an additional 6% had speech and language delay. overall, at last visit 16 (20%) of the children exhibited some type of handicap. a review of the literature on follow-up studies of non-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation-treated infants with persistent pulmonary artery hypertension produced an impairment rate of 18.5%. outcome post-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation appears similar to that seen in less ill cohorts of infants treated with more "conventional" therapy. long-term follow-up of all such infants remains essential.
the role of alpha adrenoceptor subtypes in sympathetic control of the acral-cutaneous microcirculation. in pithed and anesthetized rats, laser-doppler flowmetry was used to evaluate the role of alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptors in mediating sympathetic responses in acral regions of the cutaneous circulation. the intravenous administration of the selective alpha-1 agonist, phenylephrine, was a more potent vasopressor agent than bh-t 933 (a selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist) in pithed rats. however, bh-t 933 was more potent and more efficacious than phenylephrine in reducing cutaneous microvascular perfusion (cp). bh-t 933 also caused a greater increase in cutaneous microvascular resistance. neural and humoral sympathetic effects on cp were characterized with selective alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists (prazosin and rauwolscine, respectively). it was found that frequency-related reductions in cp elicited by sciatic nerve stimulation were antagonized by prazosin, but not by rauwolscine. in fact, rauwolscine enhanced neurally evoked reductions in cp at the highest stimulation frequencies. however, both prazosin and rauwolscine antagonized reductions in cp elicited by electrical stimulation of the thoracolumbar outflow (sympathoadrenal activation). ganglionic stimulation (intravenous 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium) also caused a profound, transient reduction in cp that was abolished by rauwolscine, but was not significantly altered by prazosin. in contrast, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium-induced increases in mean arterial pressure were reduced by prazosin, but not by rauwolscine. in ketamine-anesthetized rats, rauwolscine caused a dose-related increase in cp without altering mean arterial pressure, whereas prazosin lowered mean arterial pressure but did not alter cp. we conclude that acral regions of the cutaneous vasculature are more sensitive to alpha-2 vis-a-vis alpha-1 adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction.
the severity of coronary atherosclerosis at sites of plaque rupture with occlusive thrombosis. atherosclerotic plaque rupture with superimposed thrombosis is recognized as the lesion causing greater than 90% of acute myocardial infarctions. to determine the severity of atherosclerosis at the site of plaque rupture, 184 coronary arteries from autopsies of 162 patients who died of acute myocardial infarction were studied. there were 102 men, 72 +/- 10 years old (mean +/- sd), and 60 women, 75 +/- 8 years old. all arteries were dissected from the heart, fixed, decalcified, cut at 2 to 3 mm intervals and processed routinely for histologic examination. a planimeter was used to measure artery, plaque, thrombus and luminal cross-sectional area at the site of plaque rupture with thrombosis in sections projected at x13.8 magnification. at the site of atherosclerotic plaque rupture with superimposed thrombosis, the degree of stenosis due to plaque was: 90 +/- 7% for the right (n = 67), 91 +/- 6% for the left anterior descending (n = 79) and 91 +/- 6% for the left circumflex (n = 38) coronary arteries. plaque rupture in fatal acute myocardial infarction occurs at sites of severe narrowing (mean 91%, range 67% to 99%). thus, plaque rupture with thrombosis is unlikely to cause the fatal acute myocardial infarction in patients with mild to moderate coronary stenosis.
systemic toxic effects associated with high-dose verapamil infusion and chemotherapy administration. aside from its more conventional uses as a cardiovascular drug, the calcium channel blocker verapamil has recently been added to chemotherapeutic regimens to reduce drug resistance in b-cell and other neoplasms that express the p-glycoprotein. we recently treated patients with continuous-infusion verapamil (0.15 mg/kg per hour to 0.60 mg/kg per hour) over a 5-day period in combination with continuous-infusion vincristine and doxorubicin plus oral dexamethasone. seventy-one courses involving 35 hospitalized patients were prospectively studied for cardiovascular and other side effects. cardiovascular side effects were observed most frequently and consisted of first-degree heart block, hypotension, sinus bradycardia, and junctional rhythms. we observed higher degree heart block, but the qrs interval remained narrow and the ventricular escape rate remained relatively normal. effects on mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and pr interval were both time and dose related. severe, symptomatic congestive heart failure was rarely observed. the most common noncardiovascular side effects were constipation, peripheral edema, and weight gain. all systemic toxic effects observed were easily treated or disappeared with either temporary or permanent discontinuation of the verapamil infusion or by a decrease in the dose of verapamil. we conclude that the cardiovascular side effects associated with continuous, high-dose intravenous verapamil therapy are significant and dose limiting but are rapidly reversible. less cardiotoxic chemosensitizers are needed to reverse multidrug resistance in cancer.
demographic, social and stress correlates of hypertension among the urban poor. the relationship of demographic, social, and psychological variables to the diagnosis of hypertension in a population of urban, poor, predominantly black out-patients is reported. subjects were 182 patients presenting for health care at wayne state university family practice clinic. age, race, marital status, attendance at religious services, education, employment status, income, source of income and interpersonal stress were significantly related to a diagnosis of hypertension in this sample. of those characteristics found to be significantly related to hypertension, discriminative analysis showed that age, race, education and frequency of church attendance were most important in predicting a diagnosis of hypertension among this out-patient sample of the urban poor. implications for clinical care and for future research needs are considered.
cardiopulmonary assessment in beta-thalassemia major. thalassemia patients succumb at a young age to congestive heart failure. hitherto, attention has been focused on left ventricular function. this report emphasizes right ventricular dysfunction and abnormal pulmonary function. we performed cardiopulmonary evaluation, including echo-doppler, spirometry, co diffusion (dco), and blood gas analyses in 35 patients with homozygous beta-thalassemia maintained by multiple blood transfusions. six autopsy lung specimens were studied. thalassemia patients exhibited pulmonary dysfunction, characterized by hypoxemia (85 percent of the patients were outside the 95 percent confidence limits), reduced lung volumes (51 percent), flow rates (63 percent) and dco (50 percent). right ventricular dysfunction was more prevalent than left ventricular dysfunction. furthermore, 75 percent of the patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension consistent with more frequent right ventricular rather than left ventricular dysfunction. our findings suggest that in thalassemia patients, complex cardiopulmonary abnormalities precede the final outcome of congestive heart failure.
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle. expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease. we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle. rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus. surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis. the histological examination showed inflammatory, nonspecific granulation tissue. the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection. signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection. the clinical, radiological, and biochemical course is documented. this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease.
the internist in the management of head and neck cancer. the general internist has an important role in the management of head and neck squamous cell cancers. this heterogeneous group of cancers must be accurately diagnosed and staged before planning treatment. curability is directly related to stage at presentation and, because most patients with such cancers present to internists first, these physicians must be familiar with presenting symptoms and must be suspicious enough to refer patients with symptoms for appropriate evaluation. the work-up of patients with suspected unknown primary cancer presenting as adenopathy is detailed, and the physician is cautioned not to immediately proceed to open biopsy. as many as 10% of such primary cancers remain undetected, although, with proper therapy, the 5-year survival rate for squamous cell cancer of the head and neck is 60%. those patients cured of head and neck cancer still face significant psychosocial and medical problems, including hypothyroidism, xerostomia, and a 20% rate of second primary cancer. head and neck cancer is highly preventable; 75% of cases are related to tobacco and alcohol use. smokeless tobacco has gained popularity among young americans and is associated with an increased incidence of head and neck cancer at several sites. education is crucial, and internists must seek strategies to stop patients from using tobacco products. other etiologic factors include industrial carcinogens, epstein-barr virus, and diet. retrospective serologic and dietary recall studies of vitamin a suggest an etiologic role of diet; vitamin a analogs have been tested in preneoplastic lesions. to reduce mortality from head and neck cancers, the general internist must play a central role in prevention and early detection.
'cystic papilloma' in humans? demonstration of human papillomavirus in plantar epidermoid cysts. fourteen cases of plantar epidermoid cyst were studied immunohistochemically and five of them were also studied electron microscopically for the presence of human papillomavirus. in eleven cases, the test results were positive for papillomavirus antigens, and in five of them, papillomaviruslike particles were observed by electron microscopy. histological examination showed most of the cysts to contain intracytoplasmic eosinophilic bodies in cells of the cyst wall as well as the vacuolar structures in the keratinous mass within the cavity. these findings suggest an etiologic association between the papillomavirus and plantar epidermoid cysts. the "cystic papilloma" produced in rabbits by the shope papillomavirus has been clearly demonstrated. we propose that human papillomaviruses play an important role in the genesis of plantar epidermoid cysts. this is the first report on the possible existence of a cystic papilloma in humans.
extensive aneurysmal bone cyst of the mandible: surgical resection and immediate reconstruction. a case report. a case of extensive aneurysmal bone cyst of the mandible is described. the surgical defect was reconstructed immediately with two autogenous ribs and corallin porous hydroxyapatite. the postoperative results were good. there was no recurrence after 2 years of follow-up. the patient does not have any functional or esthetic problems.
prospective randomized comparison of brown-mchardy and microvasive balloon dilators in treatment of achalasia. we report the results of a randomized prospective study comparing a standard bougie rubber balloon dilator [brown-mchardy (bmh)] and a newer polyethylene dilator passed over a guide wire [microvasive rigiflex (mvr)]. twenty achalasia patients (15m, 5f, mean age 45.4 yr) considered candidates for either dilator were randomized. symptom assessment, body weight, and upright radionuclide solid esophageal emptying study were measured before and 6 months after pneumatic dilatation. all dilatations were performed by one of three experienced gastroenterologists under fluoroscopic guidance. overall success occurred with 10/10 bmh and 7/10 mvr. one patient not improved with mvr had myotomy; the other two were successfully treated by bmh. no complications occurred with either dilator.
interval gangrene of the lower extremity: a complication of vascular surgery. interval gangrene, segmental ischemic necrosis proximal to a functioning distal anastomosis, is a rare complication after successful peripheral vascular reconstruction. previous reports have demonstrated the gravity of this event in that major limb amputation was required in all cases. two cases are presented to emphasize the need for maintaining segmental collateral circulation after successful distal extremity bypass. despite a satisfactory result after distal (inframalleolar) bypass of a popliteal aneurysm, one patient had progressive ischemic gangrene of the upper leg and eventually required amputation. the contralateral limb was successfully managed by distal ligation of the superficial femoral artery, which maintained collateral flow from the proximal superficial femoral artery to the knee and leg. the second patient required a microvascular free flap to replace tissue loss and provide vascular graft coverage after initial multiple bypass failures and a final successful remote reconstruction to the dorsal artery of the foot that excluded the popliteal-crural collateral network. patients with inadequate collateral circulation or disruption of the profundus or geniculate collateral pathways may require revascularization of sequential vascular beds. recognition of the potential for interval gangrene is essential since the likelihood of its occurrence will increase in proportion to the number of distal bypasses being performed for limb salvage. although adjunctive procedures will not completely eliminate the possibility of interval gangrene, awareness of this phenomenon with attention to the segmental collateral circulation can decrease the incidence of its occurrence.
pancreatic response to percutaneous biliary drainage: a prospective study. to evaluate the effects of percutaneous biliary drainage (pbd) on the pancreas, serum amylase levels were measured for 7 consecutive days after pbd and compared with baseline values in 50 patients who underwent a total of 53 pbd procedures. of the 45 patients with normal baseline serum amylase levels, 12 patients (24%) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia without clinical symptoms and five patients (10%) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia with clinical signs of pancreatitis. five patients who presented with elevated baseline serum amylase levels demonstrated decreases into the normal range after placement of stents without initiation of bowel rest or liquid diet. the level of biliary obstruction proved insignificant, as did the nature of the obstructing disease, in determining which patients would experience hyperamylasemia or pancreatitis after pbd. it is concluded that the frequency of pancreatic insult from pbd may be more common than previously reported and that patient susceptibility is not dependent on the level of biliary obstruction or the nature of the disease.
cell-to-cell communication and the control of growth. growth of transformed cells is inhibited by cell-to-cell communication with normal cells. this communication is regulated by certain oncogenes that alone or in cooperation can block the communication.
lymphoma of the gastric stump: report of a case. we report a case of primary lymphoma on a previously resected stomach in a 62-year-old man. the patient was treated 22 years earlier with a partial gastrectomy and billroth ii reconstruction for a benign gastric ulcer. the rarity of this entity and its possible relationship with pseudolymphoma or lymphoid nodular hyperplasia is discussed, and the literature is reviewed.
neural respiratory drive and neuromuscular coupling in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). in 15 spontaneously breathing patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) divided into two groups, one with normocapnia (a) and one with chronic hypercapnia (b), we evaluated the maximal voluntary inspiratory muscle strength (mip), the pattern of breathing, the mouth occlusion pressure (po.1), the neural respiratory drive (nrd), assessed by surface electromyographic (emg) activity of the diaphragm (emgd) and emg activity of intercostal muscles (emgint), and the chest wall neuromuscular coupling, assessed in terms of po.1/emgd ratio. compared with an age-matched normal control group, both a and b groups exhibited lower mip, significantly greater emgd and emgint, and lower po.1/emgd ratio. however, a similar pattern, along with a rapid and shallow breathing, differentiated group b from group a. in group b we found a significant direct relationship between po.1/emgd ratio and mip, and an inverse relationship between paco2 and po.1/emgd ratio. these data seem to indicate the following: (1) emg is a more precise method than po.1 in assessing the magnitude of the nrd; (2) nrd is increased in these patients; and (3) clinical manifestations probably associated with inspiratory muscle fatigue (marked decrease in muscle strength, rapid and shallow breathing, and alveolar hypoventilation) may be accompanied by a greater nrd and a more marked derangement in chest wall neuromuscular coupling in copd.
sensory ataxic hemiparesis in thalamic hemorrhage. ataxic hemiparesis with cerebellar-like features has been reported following infarction or hemorrhage of the thalamus. we describe five patients with incoordination and corticospinal tract signs in the limbs opposite a dorsolateral thalamic hemorrhage. in four patients the hemorrhage extended superiorly into the lateral ventricle, the adjacent paraventricular region, and the upper and medial parts of the posterior limb of the internal capsule. instead of cerebellar dysfunction, these patients exhibited directional errors of movement that improved distinctly when performed under visual guidance. we explain the incoordination on the basis of conscious deep sensory loss in the involved limbs. perception of light touch, painful pinprick, and temperature were preserved in all patients. we use the term "sensory ataxic hemiparesis" to distinguish these patients from those with "classic" ataxic hemiparesis and cerebellar-like features, a distinction that may be important when planning functional rehabilitation.
short-term radiotherapy as palliative treatment in patients with transitional cell bladder cancer. we report the results and complications of treatment with palliative, short-term radiotherapy in 162 elderly or disabled patients. improvement in tumour-associated symptoms was noted in 75 of these patients and 72 survived for more than a year. those who responded to radiotherapy had a 5-year cancer-free survival rate of 58% compared with 4% in patients who did not respond to treatment. survival was also affected by stage and indications for radiotherapy. in 85 patients without severe symptoms, where the tumour was judged curable but the patient was unsuitable for a full course of radiotherapy, the 5-year cancer-free survival rate was 21%, which is in accordance with what can be achieved with full-course radiotherapy; 42% had various minor acute side effects. the 5-year late complication rate was 7%.
effect of baseline ovarian cysts on in vitro fertilization and gamete intrafallopian transfer cycles. the presence of ovarian cysts may compromise the success of in vitro fertilization (ivf) and gamete intrafallopian transfer (gift). we prospectively studied 212 consecutive ovulation induction cycles in 120 patients for ivf and/or gift. a baseline cyst was defined as any intraovarian cystic structure greater than or equal to 12 mm noted on ultrasonography before superovulation. cycle outcomes were compared between patients with cysts (n = 62) versus those with no cysts (n = 150). there were no differences in follicular or luteal phase lengths or amount of human menopausal gonadotropins used. peak estradiol (e2) levels were significantly lower and cancellation rates significantly higher in the cyst group. for noncanceled cycles, there were no significant differences in peak e2 levels, the mean number of follicles greater than or equal to 12 mm, mature oocytes retrieved, or ova transferred for gift or embryos for ivf. the pregnancy rates overall and for noncanceled cycles were not significantly different.
clinicopathologic features and long-term results of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer. during a 10-yr-period, 24 cases of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer were experienced in our department. the mean age was 62.5 yr, and the sex ratio of males to females was 3:1. borrmann ii and iii types of gastric cancer were predominant (83.3%). the prognosis was dismal. most of the patients, including three radically operated cases of early gastric cancer, died from liver metastasis within 2 yr. the 1-, 3-, and 6-yr survival rates were 37.5%, 8.3%, and 8.3%, respectively, for all cases and 75.0%, 25.0%, and 25.0% for radically operated cases. the incidences of synchronous and metachronous liver metastasis were 31.8% and 40.9%, significantly higher than the incidences of afp-negative gastric cancer (p less than 0.91). despite radical gastrectomy, metachronous liver metastasis occurred in 75.0% of the cases. two radical hepatic resections, including extended right lobectomy, were performed in one patient with early gastric cancer who had repeated metachronous liver metastasis. however, the tumor recurred immediately. apparently, radical gastrectomy or hepatic resection alone may not suffice for this particular type of cancer. the methods of treatment and follow-up considered should be different from that for other types of gastric cancer.
percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in sickle cell anemia: a case report. percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was performed on a 19-year-old female who had moderate pulmonary valve stenosis with sickle cell anemia. the patient developed sickle cell crisis resulting in occipital infarction, but she made a good recovery. we describe this case and the methods of reducing the risk of sickle cell crisis.
clinical study of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors producing alpha-fetoprotein. we present six patients with intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors that produced alpha-fetoprotein (afp). their ages ranged from 8 to 20 years (average, 11.5 years old); two were male and four were female. four of the tumors originated in the pineal region and two in the suprachiasmatic region. one patient treated with only radiation therapy died within 3 months of admission as a result of intraperitoneal metastasis via a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. another patient, treated with radiation therapy and intrathecal administration of neocarzinostatin, died after 12 months because of tumor progression and subarachnoid dissemination. two patients who received radiation and combination therapy with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin died after 13 and 25 months. the remaining two patients treated with radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy (cisplatin and etoposide) are now alive without recurrence after 16 and 19 months from admission. adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide appears to be efficacious in the treatment of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumor.
the lack of full correlation between the injury severity score and the resource needs of injured patients study objective: to determine whether the injury severity score (iss) correlates with the resource requirements of severely injured patients by studying the association of the iss with three major interventions (fluid resuscitation, invasive central nervous system monitoring, and acute operative repair) trauma centers routinely provide severely injured patients. design: retrospective clinical review. setting: level i trauma center. type of participants: eight hundred fourteen adult injured patients. measurements and main results: when an iss of more than 9 was used as the definition of major trauma, the iss undercorrelated 11% of the time with the need for any one procedure. when an iss of more than 14 was used as the definition, it undercorrelated 20% of the time. conclusion: the iss may not be completely correlated with the resource requirements of injured patients and should not be used as the sole means by which to define major injury.
prevention of paraplegia during aortic operations. ischemic spinal cord injury after aortic cross-clamping may be produced by a steal phenomenon. the present study investigates this possibility by directly measuring the oxygen tension on the spinal cord surface in pigs. after simple clamping of the aorta, oxygen tension decreased significantly distal to the clamping site both after occlusion of the thoracic aorta at t3-4 (group 1) and after occlusion of the abdominal aorta at l-1 (group 2). exclusion of the thoracic aorta by a second clamp at t-13 restored oxygen tension almost to the original level, whereas segmentation of the abdominal aorta up to s-1 hardly affected oxygen tension in the area of the artery of adamkiewicz in most of the animals. we conclude that after aortic cross-clamping, blood tends to drain away from the spinal cord rather than supplying it longitudinally. without knowledge of the position of the adamkiewicz artery in humans as well as of the competence of the collateral circulation in the excluded segment, it is necessary to develop a new strategy for repair of the aorta. we describe and discuss two surgical techniques for the prevention of paraplegia after aortic cross-clamping: the counterocclusion technique and the bypass fractionated technique.
patterns of growth and metastases of induced pancreatic cancer in relation to the prognosis and its clinical implications. to understand high malignancy of pancreatic cancer, the growth and metastatic patterns of pancreatic cancer induced in syrian hamsters were examined. in this model, induced tumors resemble the human disease morphologically, clinically, biologically, and immunologically. in the current study, primary-induced cancer and transplants of pancreatic cancer cell line (pc-1) into the sc tissue or pancreas of homologous hosts were used. in the primary-induced pancreatic cancer, perineural invasion was the most common path (88%), followed by lymphogenic (31%) or vascular (2%) metastases. inoculation of pc-1 cells into the pancreas resulted in 100% tumor take within 3 weeks. of 19 intrapancreatic allografts, all showed peritoneal invasion, 5 (26%) liver metastases, 3 (16%) lymph node metastases, 17 (89%) perineural invasion, and none vascular invasion. even microscopic tumors were found to metastasize primarily via perineural spaces. it was also demonstrated, for the first time, that cancer cells take this route to reach distant tissues, including the lymph nodes. intraductal spreading occurred in both primary cancers and intrapancreatic allografts either continuously or discontinuously. the patterns of discontinuous intraductal tumor expansion imitated tumor multicentricity. although perineural invasion was the most common feature of primary cancer and intrapancreatic allografts, lymphatic, hepatic, and vascular invasion and metastases usually occurred in advanced cases. environmental factors seem to influence expansion and metastases, as evidenced by differences in growth and in metastatic patterns between sc and intrapancreatic allografts.
anton's syndrome in a patient with posttraumatic optic neuropathy and bifrontal contusions. we describe a patient who manifested anton's syndrome after sustaining head trauma that resulted in optic nerve damage and bifrontal contusions. denial of monocular blindness, generalized anosognosia, and confabulation were prominent neurobehavioral features. anton's syndrome is most commonly encountered in patients with bilateral occipital cortex lesions. patients previously described who demonstrated anton's syndrome secondary to a peripheral lesion have had an associated delirium or profound dementia. our case demonstrates that anton's syndrome may occur in association with blindness from a peripheral lesion, even in the absence of a delirium or significant dementia. we suggest that the bifrontal dysfunction may have been a critical factor in the production of anton's syndrome. implications for the role of frontal lobe dysfunction in the genesis of anosognosia and confabulation are discussed.
incidence of parenchymal liver diseases in denmark, 1981 to 1985: analysis of hospitalization registry data. the danish association for the study of the liver. the sex-specific and age-specific incidence rates of the major parenchymal liver diseases in a north european population were estimated using a computerized registry of all admissions to somatic hospitals in denmark. the incidence was calculated by counting all incident cases of these diseases reported to the registry in the 5-yr period 1981 to 1985 and dividing the number of cases by the number of person-years at risk in this period. the incidence rates (per million person-years) were for men and women, respectively: infectious hepatitis, 109 and 71; toxic hepatitis, 19 and 22; chronic hepatitis, 27 and 29; alcoholic cirrhosis, 190 and 85; nonalcoholic nonbiliary cirrhosis, 110 and 82; primary biliary cirrhosis, 4 and 14. the pattern of the age-specific incidence rates was similar in men and women in infectious hepatitis, alcoholic cirrhosis, nonalcoholic nonbiliary cirrhosis and primary biliary cirrhosis. toxic and chronic hepatitis had a higher incidence in women than in men only in older age groups. the incidence of idiopathic hemochromatosis, wilson's disease, secondary biliary cirrhosis, portal vein thrombosis and budd-chiari's syndrome were less than four in both sexes.
acute angiographic and clinical outcome of high speed percutaneous rotational atherectomy (rotablator). percutaneous rotational atherectomy (rotablator), a high speed (greater than 100,000 rpm) rotational burr, was used successfully in 38 of 43 patients (88%) (mean age: 65 +/- 7 years) with 82 lesions (71 stenoses and 11 occlusions). the clinical indications were claudication (84%), nonhealing ulcer (7%), and renovascular hypertension (7%). rotablation was successful in 78 of 82 lesions (95%): 68 of 71 (96%) stenoses (12 of 12 iliac, 11 of 11 femoral, 7 of 8 popliteal, 36 of 37 tibial, and 2 of 3 renal arteries; 60% of lesions were diffuse, i.e., greater than or equal to 4 cm in length), and 10 of 11 (91%) occlusions (5 of 6 femoral, 1 of 1 popliteal, 3 of 3 tibioperoneal, 1 of 1 brachial artery). the rotablator significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced the arterial obstruction (stenoses: 85 +/- 11% to 12 +/- 12%); occlusions: 100% to 25 +/- 10%). the effective final burr size for arteries varied at 3.5-4.5 mm for renal, 3.0-3.5 mm for femoral, and 2.0-3.0 mm for brachial and tibial. complications included gross hemoglobinuria without sequelae in 27 patients (63%), groin hematoma in 10 (23%), arterial spasm in 10 (23%), and arterial bypass in 2 (5%). the rotablator was successfully used, without concomitant conventional balloon angioplasty, to open arterial lesions with excellent angiographic results in both diffuse and segmental peripheral vascular disease. there was gratifying patient clinical improvement.
narrow qrs ventricular tachycardia. objective: to determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of narrow qrs ventricular tachycardia (qrs duration less than or equal to 0.11 seconds). design: consecutive survey of patients with ventricular tachycardia. setting: tertiary, referral-based arrhythmia service at a university medical center. patients: sequential sample of patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia who had a 12-lead electrocardiogram of the tachycardia available for review. measurements and main results: of 106 patients with ventricular tachycardia, 5 (4.7%; 95% ci, 2.1% to 10.6%) had ventricular tachycardia with a qrs duration less than or equal to 0.11 seconds. three of the five patients were previously incorrectly diagnosed as having supraventricular tachycardia. all five patients had at least two electrocardiographic findings other than qrs duration to suggest ventricular tachycardia. conclusions: narrow qrs ventricular tachycardia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of narrow qrs tachycardias. electrocardiographic findings other than qrs duration are usually present to suggest the diagnosis.
pharmacokinetics of propofol infusions in patients with cirrhosis. we have compared the pharmacokinetics of propofol as an infusion in 10 control and 10 patients with cirrhosis. anaesthesia was induced within 3-4 min during administration of an infusion of propofol 21 mg kg-1 h-1. after 5 min, the infusion was decreased in a stepwise manner to 12 mg kg-1 h-1 and subsequently 6 mg kg-1 h-1. the mean recovery time after discontinuation of the infusion was significantly longer in the cirrhotic group; however, when patients opened their eyes, blood concentrations of propofol were similar in both groups (1 micrograms ml-1). pharmacokinetic analysis was performed from the beginning of infusion to 8 h after termination. total body clearance was not reduced significantly in cirrhotic (1.56 (sd 0.48) litre min-1) compared with control (1.75 (0.32) litre min-1) patients. the volume of distribution at steady state was significantly greater in patients with cirrhosis than in control patients (202 (82) litre vs 121 (49) litre). however, this difference did not change terminal elimination half-life. the pharmacokinetics of propofol given by infusion to maintain general anaesthesia were not affected markedly by moderate cirrhosis.
multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma. a single-institution experience. orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region. modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90% in these patients. however, new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90% of orbital cases. between 1979 and 1990, 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the university of naples. ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy, followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy. all 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease, from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis. in all children, ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few. the above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma.
current trends in suture fixation of posterior chamber intraocular lenses. corneal surgeons were surveyed with regard to their technique of suture fixation of posterior chamber intraocular lenses in the absence of posterior capsular support. fifty-nine percent of the 260 respondents stated they perform the procedure almost exclusively during penetrating keratoplasty. scleral fixation was marginally favored over iris fixation by these surgeons. most intraoperative problems reported were related to the relative technical difficulty of the procedure, although transient hemorrhage from the ciliary body was also mentioned. postoperative complications cited included mechanical problems involving the lens and iris, cystoid macular edema, glaucoma, and endophthalmitis.
concordant graves' disease after bone marrow transplantation: implications for pathogenesis. the current working hypothesis on the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease focuses on the interactions between susceptibility genes and environmental stimuli. in graves' disease it is postulated that aberrant expression of hla class ii antigens on thyroid epithelial cells permits the presentation of specific thyroid antigen to activated lymphocytes. evidence suggests that thyrocyte hla-dr expression is secondary to the production of cytokines by presensitized t-lymphocytes. a 20-yr-old woman and her 18-yr-old brother presented with classical findings of graves' disease with ophthalmopathy within a year of each other. diagnosis was confirmed by demonstration of elevated serum levels of t4 and t3, strongly positive titers of tsh binding inhibitory immunoglobulins, and histological examination after subtotal thyroidectomy. eight years previously, acute life-threatening aplastic anemia in the brother led to therapeutic transplantation of bone marrow from his sister. after the procedure, 100% of his peripheral leucocytes were genotype 46,xx. hla typing performed before transplantation and 2 months after thyroidectomy in the female indicated complete identity with her brother's leukocytes for class i and class ii antigens. thyroid autoantibodies at this time were weakly positive. although the concordance of thyroid disease in these patients could be due to chance, the patients were of different sexes, the family history was negative, and neither the probands nor the first degree relatives bore the hla-dr3/b8 antigens. we propose that the male passively acquired a clone of programmed or activated lymphocytes from his sister and that his hyperthyroidism was not primarily dependent on exposure to specific thyroid-derived antigen.
detection and assessment of unstable angina using myocardial perfusion imaging: comparison between technetium-99m sestamibi spect and 12-lead electrocardiogram. forty-five studies using technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography (spect) were performed on patients hospitalized for spontaneous chest pain suggestive of myocardial ischemia. the studies were done after an injection during an episode of chest pain and a repeated injection when the patients were free of pain. all patients were hospitalized with a presumed diagnosis of unstable angina, and none had evidence of a previous myocardial infarction. the presence of a perfusion defect observed with tc-99m sestamibi injected during chest pain had a 96% sensitivity and a 79% specificity for the detection of significant coronary artery disease (stenosis greater than or equal to 50%) on subsequent angiography. when the criterion of a larger perfusion defect during pain compared to absence of pain was used, the sensitivity was 81% and the specificity was 84%. in contrast, transient electrocardiographic ischemic changes during pain had a sensitivity of 35% and a specificity of 68%; electrocardiographic changes during or outside episodes of chest pain had a sensitivity of 65% and a specificity of 63% for the diagnosis. tc-99m sestamibi spect represents a reliable noninvasive diagnostic tool that could aid in the diagnosis of myocardial ischemia in patients with spontaneous chest pain and provide additional information to that provided by the electrocardiogram.
surgical technique for implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis. the surgical technique for the implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis is described in detail. this procedure is straightforward and is easily carried out by surgeons familiar with carotid surgery.
a simplified technique for the production of heart failure in the dog by rapid ventricular pacing. prolonged rapid ventricular pacing (vp) in dogs produces low output heart failure (hf) characterized by cardiomegaly, ascites, and elevated plasma renin and norepinephrine levels. commercially available pacemaker generators have a protective circuit that prevents pacing at rapid rates. previously, investigators have had to use either external temporary pacemakers or customized generators to pace at rates greater than 130 beats per minute (bpm). the authors have developed a simple method to perform rapid vp by gluing magnets on medtronic vvi generators, which allows programming in a temporary mode to sustain rates up to 400 bpm. our results using 10 generators in 55 dogs demonstrates that hf is produced in all dogs when vp is maintained at 250 bpm for an average of 28 days. technical difficulties during our early experience with this technique included magnets becoming unglued, loss of capture, and wound complications requiring generator removal. thus, our method reuses commercially available generators to rapidly pace the ventricles and induce hf.
brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula. a case of brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula was presented and 52 reported cases were reviewed. the brain abscess was successfully treated with repeated aspiration and drainage, and the pulmonary arteriovenous fistula, located in the right lower lobe, was resected. the arteriovenous fistula occurs as a common pulmonary manifestation of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia; however, no symptoms suggesting these two were noted in this case. brain abscesses can be an initial clinical manifestation in asymptomatic pulmonary arteriovenous fistula. this possible association should be borne in mind in cases of brain abscesses of unexplained etiology.
catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy in multiple endocrine neoplasia. a histologic, ultrastructural, and biochemical study. a catecholamine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy is reported in a patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 3. a histologic and ultrastructural study has been undertaken in cardiac biopsy samples, together with determination of myocardial ca++ and cellular membrane fatty acids. contraction band necrosis of cardiocytes with supercontraction of sarcomeres progressing to myofibrolysis and increased levels of myocardial ca++ have been found as morphologic and biochemical abnormalities, respectively. no lipoperoxidation of cellular membranes or an alpha-adrenergic mediated reduction of coronary supply could be recognized in the study. we indicate a receptor-mediated intracellular ca++ overload as the main abnormality responsible for myocardial impairment.
mechanical measures in the prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolism in total knee arthroplasty. total knee arthroplasty patients are at high risk for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in these patients seems mandatory. pharmacologic agents such as dextran 40, aspirin, and warfarin are effective but may be associated with significant complications such as drug reaction, bleeding, hematoma, and hemarthrosis. heparin was not effective and was associated with significant bleeding complications. mechanical methods such as continuous passive motion and sequential pneumatic compression stockings were without complications and seemed equal to or more effective than pharmacologic agents. adding warfarin to mechanical methods did not seem to augment the antithromboembolic effect of the mechanical methods.
aneuploidy in pancreatic insulinomas does not predict malignancy. nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) ploidy studies with paraffin embedded archival material from 14 pancreatic insulinomas were performed by flow cytometry. clinical follow-up (2 to 17 years; mean, 8 years) was obtained for all patients. half of the tumors had a normal dna histogram and half exhibited an abnormal dna profile consistent with dna aneuploidy. six of the seven patients with aneuploid tumors are alive and disease free (2 to 5 years postresection), and one is alive with metastatic disease. of the seven patients with tumors showing normal dna profiles, five are alive and disease free, one is dead of disease, and one is alive with metastatic disease. these data suggest that dna ploidy analysis is unlikely to provide useful prognostic information for patients with insulinomas.
toward a rational therapeutic strategy for arachnoiditis. a possible role for d-penicillamine. twenty-six patients (13 men and 13 women), ranging in age from 38 to 75 years, with surgical and/or radiculographic evidence of chronic adhesive spinal arachnoiditis (casa) were admitted to a randomly allocated, double-blind, 6-month crossover trial of d-penicillamine (500 mg/day) versus matching placebo. assessments using subjective and objective criteria at 3-month intervals demonstrated no statistically significant effect with either d-penicillamine or placebo or between them. thirteen of the 17 patients completing the trial expressed no clear preference. one patient preferred placebo. the remaining three patients who expressed strong preference for d-penicillamine (supported by objective data) subsequently maintained improvement on long-term therapy for up to 5 years. it is concluded that there may be a small subgroup of patients with casa who might benefit from d-penicillamine therapy.
the fastigial pressor response. case report. a distinct vasomotor and cardioregulatory response first identified experimentally was elicited intraoperatively in a 6-year-old girl by local mechanical stimulation in the vicinity of the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum. these findings are discussed in the light of current experimental knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the fastigial pressor response.
pseudoaneurysm: diagnosis with color doppler ultrasound. increasing numbers of interventional radiologic procedures, often with large arterial catheters, have led to increasing total numbers of complications. pseudoaneurysm is not an infrequent complication. it is often difficult to differentiate pseudoaneurysm clinically from hematoma. in the past, we have used gray scale duplex scanning to aid in this differentiation. we have recently found color doppler scanning to allow quicker, easier, and more accurate diagnosis. color doppler imaging also can often demonstrate the track between the artery and the aneurysm.
possible transmission of serum hepatitis in liver surgery with the ultrasonic dissector. when the ultrasonic dissector is used during liver surgery, the possibility exists of the transmission of virus to the attending hospital personnel because of unavoidable splashing of the irrigating solution. it becomes apparent from this study that the titer of hepatitis b surface antigen in the aspirated irrigating solution is almost the same level as that in the serum. we therefore strongly recommend that eye shields should be used in hepatic surgery when the ultrasonic dissector is in use.
efficacy of recombinant-derived human superoxide dismutase on porcine left ventricular contractility after normothermic global myocardial ischemia and hypothermic cardioplegic arrest. a porcine model of normothermic global ischemia (40 minutes) followed by systemic cooling to 25 degrees c with 4 degrees c crystalloid cardioplegic arrest (90 minutes) was used to assess the efficacy of recombinant-derived human superoxide dismutase (r-hsod) on postreperfusion left ventricular function while on cardiopulmonary bypass. isovolumic hemodynamic function was monitored, and adenine nucleotide pool was measured in myocardial biopsy specimens and coronary sinus effluent. the treatment group of pigs (n = 7) received 15 mg/kg r-hsod immediately before warm reperfusion, both left ventricular peak systolic pressure and developed pressure were significantly better in the r-hsod group of pigs (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo). this improvement persisted at 60 minutes of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo). myocardial atp and total adenine nucleotides did not differ, nor did adenine nucleotide catabolites in the coronary sinus effluent differ between treatment groups of pigs. the exception to this was the nucleotide catabolite inosine, which was significantly elevated in coronary sinus effluent of pigs treated with r-hsod at 30 minutes of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo). in this model of global ischemia and reperfusion, a recombinant-derived human free-radical scavenger provides significant protection of systolic but not diastolic function. values for myocardial atp and total adenine nucleotide content suggest that the improvement in mechanical function during reperfusion is not due to enhanced preservation of myocardial bioenergetics.
surgical management and prognosis of renal cell carcinoma invading the vena cava. a total of 44 patients with renal cell carcinoma and vena caval tumor thrombus underwent surgical resection. of these patients 27 had primary tumor confined within gerota's fascia, negative lymph nodes and no distant metastases (stage t3cn0m0). patients who underwent extraction of a mobile tumor thrombus from the vena cava had a 69% 5-year survival rate (median 9.9 years) but patients with tumor thrombus directly invading the vena cava had a 26% 5-year survival rate (median 1.2 years), which improved to 57% (median 5.3 years) if the involved vena caval side wall was resected successfully. of these patients 17 had renal cell carcinoma with vena caval thrombus as well as extrafascial extension, regional lymphadenopathy or distant metastases, and the 5-year survival rate was less than 18% in all groups (median survival less than 0.9 years). prognosis was determined by the pathological stage of the renal cell carcinoma and by the presence or absence of vena caval side wall invasion but not by the level of tumor thrombus extension. patients with incomplete resection of localized renal cell carcinoma with tumor thrombus do not survive any longer than those with extensive cancer, positive lymph nodes or distant metastases. however, when partial venacavectomy establishes negative surgical margins then survival markedly improves.
acute arsenical myopathy: morphological description. we describe the histological findings of the muscle in a case of acute voluntary massive arsenic intoxication resulting in severe rhabdomyolysis. the main features on muscle biopsy were perifascicular hypercontracted fibers, myofibrillar disruption, mitochondrial abnormalities and abundant cytoplasmic vacuoles containing lipids.
prognostic indices for tumor relapse and tumor mortality in follicular thyroid carcinoma. to establish an objective basis for therapeutic decisions and follow-up programs in patients with follicular thyroid cancer, the authors developed a prognostic scoring system. the prognostic impact of nine clinical, histologic, and therapeutic parameters was quantified retrospectively based on a multivariate analysis covering 149 patients. the relative relapse risk in follicular thyroid cancer (rr) was 6.8-fold increased in the presence of a moderate when compared with a high degree of histologic tumor differentiation. the rr rose with increasing age of the patient at time of tumor diagnosis by a factor of 1.8 per 20 years. the rr was reduced by a factor of 4.3 after the performance of a neck dissection and by a factor of 2.3 after percutaneous radiation therapy of the neck. the relative mortality risk in follicular thyroid cancer (rm) rose in the absence of a tumor capsule by a factor of 10, in the presence of a moderate compared with a high degree of histologic tumor differentiation by a factor of 5.9, in the presence of distant metastases by a factor of 3.2, and with increasing age of the patient at the time of tumor diagnosis by a factor of 2.2 per 20 years. from these data prognostic indices denoting the individual risk for tumor relapse (irr index) and tumor mortality (imr index) were calculated. the indices categorize patients into low-risk, medium-risk, or high-risk groups with regard to tumor relapse and tumor-related death. consequently, the irr and imr indices contribute to select patients with follicular thyroid cancer who need an aggressive form of treatment and an intensive follow-up program. the indices may also be used for risk stratification in prospective therapy trials.
gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in bell's palsy. inflammation of the facial nerve in bell's palsy can be demonstrated on gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. we have studied a series of 17 bell's palsy patients with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, and the purpose of this paper is to report our findings and discuss their significance. most acute bell's palsy cases demonstrate facial nerve enhancement, usually in the distal internal auditory canal and labyrinthine/geniculate segments. other segments demonstrate enhancement less often. gadolinium enhancement occurs regardless of the severity of the paralysis and can persist after clinical improvement of the paralysis. the findings of this study corroborate other evidence that the segments of the facial nerve most often involved in bell's palsy are the only segments that are most often enhanced with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. the role of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in the management of bell's palsy patients is discussed.
replication patterns of the fragile x in heterozygous carriers: analysis by a brdurd antibody method. the replication status of the fragile x chromosomes was studied in short-term cultures of lymphocytes from six female heterozygous carriers. the fragile x was induced by adding 0.1 microm fluorodeoxyuridine during the last 24 h of culturing. the replication status of the x chromosomes was studied using a bromodeoxyuridine (brdurd) antibody method. brdurd was added (1) at a final concentration of 0.2 micrograms/ml during the early s phase of chromosome replication (16-10 h before harvest), (2) at 0.2 microgram/ml during the late s phase (the last 6 h of culturing), (3) at 20 micrograms/ml during the early s phase, and (4) at 20 micrograms/ml during the late s phase. brdurd that was incorporated into replicating chromosomes was detected by using a nuclease and brdurd monoclonal antibody. the frequency of the fragile x was reduced by brdurd treatment. the degree of reduction was more severe in the 20 micrograms/ml than in the 0.2 microgram/ml series and was more severe with late s than with early s treatment. of the early- and late-replicating fragile x chromosomes, those which were actively replicating during a brdurd treatment were more reduced than the others. thus, the average rate of early and late s treatment with 0.2 microgram brdurd/ml was assumed to be the closest reflection of the situation in vivo. there was no correlation between the average rate of the early replicating, active fragile x and the intelligence of the heterozygous carriers studied.
early readmission of elderly patients with congestive heart failure. repetitive hospitalizations are a major health problem in elderly patients with chronic disease, accounting for up to one fourth of all inpatient medicare expenditures. congestive heart failure, one of the most common indications for hospitalization in the elderly, is also associated with a high incidence of early rehospitalization, but variables identifying patients at increased risk and an analysis of potentially remediable factors contributing to readmission have not previously been reported. we prospectively evaluated 161 patients 70 years or older that had been hospitalized with documented congestive heart failure. hospital mortality was 13% (n = 21). among patients discharged alive, 66 (47%) were readmitted within 90 days. recurrent heart failure was the most common cause for readmission, occurring in 38 patients (57%). other cardiac disorders accounted for five readmissions (8%), and noncardiac illness led to readmission in 21 cases (32%). factors predictive of an increased probability of readmission included a prior history of heart failure, four or more admissions within the preceding 8 years, and heart failure precipitated by an acute myocardial infarction or uncontrolled hypertension (all p less than .05). using subjective criteria, 25 first readmissions (38%) were judged possibly preventable, and 10 (15%) were judged probably preventable. factors contributing to preventable readmissions included noncompliance with medications (15%) or diet (18%), inadequate discharge planning (15%) or follow-up (20%), failed social support system (21%), and failure to seek medical attention promptly when symptoms recurred (20%). thus, early rehospitalization in elderly patients with congestive heart failure may be preventable in up to 50% of cases, identification of high risk patients is possible shortly after admission, and further study of nonpharmacologic interventions designed to reduce readmission frequency is justified.
identification of mutations in regions corresponding to the two putative nucleotide (atp)-binding folds of the cystic fibrosis gene. additional mutations in the cystic fibrosis (cf) gene were identified in the regions corresponding to the two putative nucleotide (atp)-binding folds (nbfs) of the predicted polypeptide. the patient cohort included 46 canadian cf families with well-characterized dna marker haplotypes spanning the disease locus and several other families from israel. eleven mutations were found in the first nbf, 2 were found in the second nbf, but none was found in the r-domain. seven of the mutations were of the missense type affecting some of the highly conserved amino acid residues in the first nbf; 3 were nonsense mutations; 2 would probably affect mrna splicing; 2 corresponded to small deletions, including another 3-base-pair deletion different from the major mutation (delta f508), which could account for 70% of the cf chromosomes in the population. nine of these mutations accounted for 12 of the 31 non-delta f508 cf chromosomes in the canadian families. the highly heterogeneous nature of the remaining cf mutations provides important insights into the structure and function of the protein, but it also suggests that dna-based genetic screening for cf carrier status will not be straightforward.
human colorectal cancers display abnormal fourier-transform infrared spectra. fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (ft-ir) was applied to the study of tissue sections of human colorectal cancer. pairs of tissue samples from colorectal cancer and histologically normal mucosa 5-10 cm away from the tumor were obtained from 11 patients who underwent partial colectomy. all cancer specimens displayed abnormal spectra compared with the corresponding normal tissues. these changes involved the phosphate and c-o stretching bands, the ch stretch region, and the pressure dependence of the ch2 bending and c = o stretching modes. our findings indicate that in colonic malignant tissue, there are changes in the degree of hydrogen-bonding of (i) oxygen atoms of the backbone of nucleic acids (increased); (ii) oh groups of serine, tyrosine, and threonine residues (any or all of them) of cell proteins (decreased); and (iii) the c = o groups of the acyl chains of membrane lipids (increased). in addition, they indicate changes in the structure of proteins and membrane lipids (as judged by the changes in their ratio of methyl to methylene groups) and in the packing and the conformational structure of the methylene chains of membrane lipids. the cell(s) of the malignant colon tissues responsible for these spectral abnormalities is unknown. cultured colon adenocarcinoma cell lines displayed similarly abnormal ft-ir spectra. the diagnostic potential of the observed changes is discussed.
transforming growth factor-beta-induced inhibition of t cell function. susceptibility difference in t cells of various phenotypes and functions and its relevance to immunosuppression in the tumor-bearing state. the present study investigates the nature of humoral component(s) generated in tumor-bearing hosts to induce immune dysfunction of t cells. cell-free ascitic fluid and culture supernatant (sn) were obtained from the ascites and cultures allowing mh134 hepatoma cells to grow. these ascites and sn samples were tested for their abilities to influence the generation of ctl responses to tnp and alloantigens. the generation of the anti-tnp ctl responses that require self h-2-restricted cd4+ th cells was markedly suppressed by addition of the ascites or sn under conditions in which these samples did not inhibit anti-allo ctl responses capable of using alternate pathways of allo-restricted cd4+ and cd8+ th. the activation of cd8+ ctl precursors and ctl activity were also resistant to the ascites or sn. the ascites- or sn-induced suppressive effect to which cd4+ th were most susceptible was found to be mediated by transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta) activity, because: 1) the tgf-beta activity was detected in the mh134 ascites and culture sn; 2) the suppression of cd4+ th function required for anti-tnp ctl responses was almost completely prevented by addition of anti-tgf-beta antibody to cultures and; 3) rtgf-beta also induced similar patterns of immunosuppression to those observed by ascites or sn. these results indicate that tgf-beta produced by tumor cells induces deleterious effects on t cell, especially on the cd4+ th subset, and provide an explanation for the molecular mechanism underlying the previously observed cd4+ th-selective suppression in the tumor-bearing state.
gallbladder carcinoma producing human chorionic gonadotropin. a primary carcinoma of the gallbladder producing human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) was encountered in an 83-yr-old japanese woman, with elevation of hcg/beta-hcg in urine and serum. remarkable elevation of serum estradiol was an associated finding, with increased hcg. at autopsy, we found that the primary carcinoma of the gallbladder extensively involved the liver. histologically, the tumor revealed adenosquamous cell carcinoma in the primary site, and moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in metastatic foci. immunohistochemical staining for beta-hcg showed a positive reaction in adenocarcinoma components. this is an extremely rare case of an hcg-producing gallbladder carcinoma, which leads us to speculate that hcg-positive tumor cells may occur due to dedifferentiation.
late luteal phase dysphoric disorder in young women. the authors determined the prevalence of late luteal phase dysphoric disorder in 217 university women aged 17-29 years. unaware of the focus on premenstrual syndrome (pms), the participants rated dsm-iii-r symptoms of late luteal phase dysphoric disorder over 90 days. using a 30% or greater premenstrual change as an index of luteal variation, the authors found that 10 women (4.6%) met the symptom criteria during two menstrual cycles. compared to 25 young women seeking treatment for pms who met the same diagnostic criteria, the 10 women from the university sample reported significantly less fatigue and impaired concentration and somewhat less severe depression and overall symptoms.
retrobulbar alcohol injection in blind painful eyes. we studied 39 blind painful eyes in 39 patients who were treated with retrobulbar injection of absolute (96%) alcohol for their severe ocular pain at the king khaled eye specialist hospital from january 1984 to january 1987. there were 21 (54%) male and 18 (46%) female patients; all were followed for at least three months. the protracted ocular pain was mainly due to: end-stage (absolute) glaucoma in 31 (80%) eyes, uveitis or endophthalmitis in four (10%) eyes, or corneal ulcer in two (5%) eyes. one eye had painful phthisis bulbi, and one eye had infraorbital neuralgia. the complications encountered were transient and included blepharoptosis in eight (21%) eyes, external ophthalmoplegia, and corneal epithelial defect. the effective time of the injection to relieve pain ranged from two weeks to two years (mean, 29 weeks). the authors believe that there is still a place for retrobulbar alcohol injection for blind painful eyes when enucleation or evisceration is not possible.
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside, "spread-out" or "up-front," in continuation therapy for childhood non-t, non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia. a pediatric oncology group study. one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t-, non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) were treated in a pediatric oncology group (pog) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate (mtx) and cytosine arabinoside (ara-c) (1 g/m2 each) were added to a "backbone" of standard continuation therapy. the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c. poor-risk patients (n = 49) were assigned to "up-front" therapy, in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission. standard-risk patients (n = 57) were assigned to "spread-out" therapy, in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment. toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c, principally neutropenia and fever, was judged significant but manageable. unexpectedly, the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after "spread-out" therapy (38%) than after "up-front" therapy (6%). at 4 years, the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival (efs) is 71% (+/- 7%) for standard-risk patients and 53% (+/- 8%) for poor-risk patients. the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies.
combined laryngeal framework medialization and reinnervation for unilateral vocal fold paralysis. the laryngeal framework-silastic implant technique has become an increasingly attractive alternative to teflon injection, particularly when there is fixation of the cricoarytenoid joint or the defect to be corrected is larger than usual; but it does not restore ability to change tension in the vocal fold. unilateral vocal fold reinnervation can overcome this drawback and, when used in conjunction with surgical medialization, may offer return of function very close to normal. twenty-nine patients with unrecovered unilateral vocal fold paralysis and/or fixation of the cricoarytenoid joint have been managed by use of a silastic implant combined with unilateral vocal fold reinnervation with no complications. voice improvement has been assessed on preoperative and postoperative voice recordings. the combined surgical techniques for reinnervation and a modification of silastic implantation via the laryngeal framework approach are reported.
the concept of locally advanced gastric cancer. effect of treatment on outcome. the gastrointestinal tumor study group. in previous gastrointestinal tumor study group (gitsg) reports, gastric cancer patients with locally unresectable disease, treated with combined radiation and chemotherapy had a shorter median survival (40 weeks) but more remained alive at 4 years (18%) when compared to those randomized to receive chemotherapy alone (76 weeks and 6%, respectively). to further test the concept that combined modality therapy might increase the number of long-term survivors, a second protocol was designed, but with three major modifications. a course of chemotherapy would precede the 5-fluorouracil-potentiated radiation therapy. doxorubicin would be added to the 5-fluorouracil plus methyl-ccnu combination. radiation therapy would be given as a single course of 4320 cgy, with 5-fluorouracil given daily for 3 days at the beginning and end of the course. median survival of 46 patients treated with chemotherapy alone was 59 weeks, with 11% alive after 3 years. following combined modality therapy, median survival was 62 weeks, but only 7% lived 3 years. although the problem of early deaths in the combined modality group was resolved, long-term survival with combination therapy was not demonstrated in this study.
choreoathetosis after deep hypothermia without circulatory arrest in 8 of 758 patients undergoing an intracardiac operation under cardiopulmonary bypass and hypothermia, choreoathetosis developed 3 to 7 days postoperatively. before the onset of choreoathetosis, varying degrees of neurological dysfunction were noted. electroencephalography and neuroimaging failed to detect any responsible functional or structural changes. six patients are alive 1 to 3 years postoperatively, and their condition is improving. two patients died of aspiration or sepsis. all patients were grouped based on factors identified as being possibly causative: depth of hypothermia, cooling time, flow rate, and repeated hypothermia. the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group a (rectal temperature greater than 25 degrees c) compared with group b (rectal temperature less than or equal to 25 degrees c) (0/295 versus 8/463; p = 0.02). based on cooling time, the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group b1 (cooling time less than 1 hour) compared with group b2 (cooling time greater than or equal to 1 hour) (1/220 versus 7/243; p = 0.05). based on flow rate during cooling, group b2 was further divided into the low-flow group (less than 1,500 ml.min-1.m-2) and the high-flow group (greater than or equal to 1,500 ml.min-1.m-2). although not significant, the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher in the high-flow group (6/153 versus 1/90; p = 0.22). in group b patients having reoperation, the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher than in patients operated on for the first time (5/54 versus 3/409; p less than or equal to 0.0001).
analysis of the two-team approach to anterior spinal fusion. an anterior approach to the spine via a thoracoabdominal incision offers the surgeon many advantages. the major vascular structures are visualized, stabilization of a long segment of the spine is strong, and recovery is speedy. nevertheless, this is a major operation and one with potential morbidity and mortality. at children's hospital of new orleans, the pediatric surgery and pediatric orthopedic surgery services work together to reduce these risks and in so doing maintain an acceptable morbidity. with this two-team approach; we operated on the spines of 39 patients between 1978 and 1988. the most common indications for operation included idiopathic scoliosis, neuromuscular disease, and congenital abnormalities. a thoracoabdominal approach was used in 32 patients, a thoracic approach in four patients, and an abdominal approach in three patients. twenty-nine patients experienced 65 complications; 45 of these complications were respiratory in nature. there were no postoperative deaths. factors unrelated to the incidence of postoperative complications included age, volume of crystalloid infused during operation, volume of blood replacement, and length of anesthesia.
coexpression of galanin and adrenocorticotropic hormone in human pituitary and pituitary adenomas. galanin is a neuropeptide that regulates the secretion of several pituitary hormones, including prolactin (prl) and growth hormone (gh). galaninlike immunoreactivity (gal-ir) and galanin mrna in the rat anterior pituitary is cell lineage specific, with predominant expression in lactotrophs and somatotrophs. the authors examined the cellular distribution of human gal-ir in seven normal postmortem pituitaries and 62 pituitary tumors by immunoperoxidase staining. in contrast to the rat, gal-ir in human anterior pituitaries was present in corticotrophs scattered throughout the gland, but not in lactotrophs, somatotrophs, thyrotrophs, or gonadotrophs. distinct gal-ir also was present in hyperplastic and neoplastic corticotrophs in 19 of 22 patients with cushing's disease. in noncorticotroph cell tumors, unequivocal gal-ir was present in 5 of 11 gh-secreting tumors associated with clinical acromegaly, 9 of 18 nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas, and 2 of 14 prolactinomas. of these galanin-positive tumors, four of the five gh-secreting adenomas, six of the nine nonfunctioning adenomas, and both of the prolactinomas also contained adrenocorticotropic hormone immunoreactivity (acth-ir). immunostaining and in situ hybridization on adjacent sections using an 35s-labeled probe complementary to human galanin mrna demonstrated predominant galanin expression in normal corticotrophs. immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the presence of gal-ir in pituitary cells characteristic of corticotrophs in both normal and neoplastic pituitaries. thus, as in the rat, galanin gene expression in the human pituitary is cell-type specific. unlike the rat, however, human galanin gene expression is restricted to the corticotroph lineage. studies of tumors confirmed the observed coexpression of galanin and adrenocorticotropic hormone. the divergent cell type specificity of galanin production in human and rat pituitaries reflects different patterns of gene activation in these two species. in addition, these results suggest that galanin in the human pituitary may participate locally in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
patient age and results of balloon aortic valvuloplasty: the mansfield scientific registry experience. the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry investigators. patients enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry were followed up a mean of 7 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. results were compared for patients less than 70, 70 to 79 and greater than or equal to 80 years of age at time of valvuloplasty. as assessed by aortic valve area indexed to body surface area, stenosis was more severe in the older patients and the incidence of congestive heart failure was also greater in those aged greater than or equal to 80 years. the results of valvuloplasty were comparable in all three age groups, and indexed final valve area was not significantly different among the groups. in-hospital mortality ranged from 4.2% to 9.4%, but this and other complications were not significantly different among the groups. total 7 month mortality was 23%. as performed in this registry study, balloon aortic valvuloplasty produced similar results in older and younger patients, despite initially more severe disease in the older patients.
colorectal tumors: an in vitro study of high-resolution mr imaging. to study the potential utility of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging in staging colorectal tumors, 15 resected colonic segments containing 17 elevated lesions were examined on a 1.5- or 1.9-t superconductive mr system. the whole intestinal wall was apparent as three or five layers on images obtained with a short repetition time (tr) and short echo time (te) and as six or eight distinct layers, including the intestinal wall proper as well as an adherent mucus layer and an outer layer of pericolonic fat, on the long tr/te images. in cases of colonic carcinoma, mr images correlated well with the pathologic findings, including the macroscopic growth pattern, depth of mural invasion, and the presence of foci of calcific tumor necrosis and pools of extracellular mucin (colloid). these features suggest that mr imaging may be valuable in the clinical evaluation of colorectal tumors.
angiographic demonstration of acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following aneurysm rupture. case report. a case documenting the acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following rupture of an aneurysm arising from the left internal carotid artery is reported. the patient deteriorated due to recurrent hemorrhage while undergoing angiography 12 hours after the initial aneurysm rupture. the acute deterioration was accompanied by dilatation of the ipsilateral pupil and occurred during injection of contrast material. there was delayed filling of the middle cerebral artery complex along with this narrowing. the arterial narrowing was confirmed to have completely disappeared on an angiographic series performed 14 minutes after the first series of films. the etiology of the acute vasospasm is discussed.
thrombosis-related markers in unstable angina pectoris. while thrombus formation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of unstable angina, the value of thrombus-related markers for distinguishing unstable from stable angina is not well defined. fibrin d-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor were prospectively analyzed in the peripheral blood of 46 patients (26 with unstable angina and 20 with stable angina or normal coronary arteries). baseline blood samples were drawn within 24 h after rest pain in patients with unstable angina and in 19 of these 26 patients in less than 6 h. in patients with unstable angina, mean +/- sd (median) values for fibrin d-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor values measured 0.09 +/- 0.06 (0.07) microgram/ml and 9.1 +/- 9.6 (5.9) iu, respectively, compared to 0.11 +/- 0.10 (0.05) microgram/ml and 5.5 +/- 1.9 (5.0) iu/ml, in patients in the control group (p = ns for all comparisons between the two groups). recurrent in-hospital pain, coronary anatomy and need for intervention showed no relation to the levels of these markers. in 19 additional patients (9 with unstable angina and 10 control patients) samples from the coronary sinus and the peripheral blood were also analyzed. again, in patients with unstable angina all samples were drawn less than 24 h after rest pain; in six of nine patients samples were drawn in less than 6 h. a coronary sinus to peripheral blood gradient for either of these markers could not be demonstrated. the differences between peripheral and coronary sinus d-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor concentrations were also similar in patients with unstable angina and control patients.
late outcome of survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest with left ventricular ejection fractions greater than or equal to 50% and without significant coronary arterial narrowing. in a retrospective survey of 1,195 survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation, 43 patients were identified in whom left ventricular ejection fraction was greater than or equal to 0.50 and in whom no coronary artery stenosis of greater than or equal to 50% luminal diameter were present. thirteen (30%) of these patients had hypokinesia on left ventriculography, and 20 patients (47%) had a persistently abnormal electrocardiogram. seven patients (16%) had recurrent out-of-hospital cardiac arrest during an average follow-up of 86 +/- 54 months. the presence of either wall motion or electrocardiographic abnormalities defined patients with a several-fold higher risk of recurrent cardiac arrest than those without such abnormalities. the risk for recurrent cardiac arrest within 5 years was 30% in those with abnormal electrocardiograms versus 5% in the others (p less than 0.03). age was an independent predictor of recurrent cardiac arrest in this group (p less than 0.01); surprisingly, recurrent cardiac arrest was occurring more often among younger patients. although cardiac arrest is unusual in patients without major structural heart disease, its recurrence in such survivors is common. patients at relatively high risk for recurrent ventricular fibrillation can be identified by their youth and by abnormalities detected on the surface 12-lead electrocardiogram or by contrast left ventriculography.
duplex ultrasonography for persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor. duplex ultrasonography was performed on 17 consecutive patients being evaluated for persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor (gtt). all patients had had a prior molar pregnancy evacuated and presented with a rise or plateau in their beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels. the ultrasonography was considered to be abnormal if the image demonstrated a focal area of altered echogenicity within the uterus or if doppler scanning revealed a focal area of detectable intrauterine blood flow. the ultrasound findings were compared with the pathologic results from dilation and curettage specimens. ten of the 17 patients had pathologically proven macroscopic tumor. of those 10, 7 had an abnormal sonographic image (sensitivity, 70%), and 9 had an abnormal doppler examination (sensitivity, 90%). in all 10 patients the image and/or doppler examination was abnormal. among four patients with microscopic disease, imaging was positive in one case, and the doppler examination was positive in three. imaging and doppler ultrasonography are complementary modalities that can reliably detect persistent uterine gtt, and doppler ultrasonography appears to be more sensitive than imaging in making this diagnosis.
carotid-subclavian bypass--a decade of experience. from august 1979 to august 1989, carotid-subclavian bypass or transposition procedures were performed on 18 women and 13 men ranging in age from 19 to 75 (mean, 58.2) years. indications for surgery included symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency in 16 (52%), upper extremity ischemia in six (19%), both vertebrobasilar insufficiency and extremity ischemia in four (13%), and stroke and/or hemispheric transient ischemic attacks in four (13%) patients. one patient (3%) had angina pectoris caused by "coronary-subclavian steal." formal bypass grafts were performed in 28 (90%) cases by means of polyterafluoroethylene (24), dacron (2), or saphenous vein (2), and carotid-subclavian transposition was performed in three (10%) cases. synchronous procedures included carotid endarterectomy (4), carotid-carotid bypass (1), and axillobrachial bypass (1). there was no operative mortality. thirty-day primary patency was 97%. follow-up has ranged from 1 to 121 (mean, 42) months. three grafts (polytetrafluoroethylene) have occluded during follow-up yielding long-term primary patency of 92% at 5 years and 83% at 8 years. relief of symptoms was initially achieved in 30 (97%) patients. recurrent symptoms have developed in six (20%) patients from 2 to 55 (mean, 26) months after surgery, including two with occluded and four with patent grafts. symptom-free survival is 89% at 1 year, 84% at 2 years, and 71% at 7 years of follow-up. six patients have died during follow-up yielding overall survival of 88% at 5 years, and 48% at 10 years.
correlations between therapeutic response of leukaemias and in-vitro drug-sensitivity assay. to develop the differential staining cytotoxicity (disc) assay, an in-vitro drug sensitivity test designed specifically for use with fresh human haematological tumour cells, into a predictive test for response to therapy as well as a tool for identifying new treatment strategies, test results have been correlated with response in patients with haematological malignancies. 22 of 119 tests indicated extreme drug resistance (tumour cell survival greater than 55%) in vitro. none of these patients responded to chemotherapy. the proportion of patients responding to therapy and 50% patient survival rose with in-vitro drug sensitivity. 11 specimens showing extreme drug resistance to the agents prescribed for the patient were subjected to drug sensitivity tests of drugs not prescribed; patients showing some sensitivity to these drugs had better survival than did those with extreme drug resistance to all drugs tested. the disc assay can also be used to identify new agents worth testing in clinical trials, and cross resistance profiles of new agents may indicate what combinations might be useful.
pulmonary artery counterpulsation with a skeletal muscle power source. we evaluated the feasibility of using skeletal muscle (sm) to provide pulmonary artery (pa) counterpulsation in an acute pulmonary hypertension (pht) model. pa counterpulsation was achieved in six dogs with a dual chambered pump powered by the latissimus dorsi muscle. a rate-responsive stimulator was used to make the muscle contract in counterpulsation. graded pht was induced by infusing 150 microns glass beads into the pa, while rv and pa pressures were monitored. with pa pressures ranging from 19/10 to 115/62 mmhg, effective counterpulsation was observed. the degree of counterpulsation was influenced by the extent of pht induced, with the amount of rv tension-time index (tti) unloading correlated with the level of pa systole (r = 0.92). therefore, results were divided into two groups (group 1: pa systole less than or equal to 40 mmhg, and group 2: pa systole greater than 40 mmhg). in group 1, rv tti decreased from 11.29 +/- 0.76 to 9.99 +/- 0.72 mmhg.sec, pa diastole increased from 20 +/- 2.3 to 31 +/- 3.0 mmhg, and pa mean increased from 24 +/- 2.2 to 2.9 +/- 2.2 mmhg (all p less than 0.05). in group 2, rv tt1 decreased from 15.12 +/- 1.83 to 10.99 +/- 0.90 mmhg.sec, pa diastole increased from 41 +/- 3.5 to 64 +/- 6.2 mmhg, and pa mean increased from 49 +/- 4.8 to 55 +/- 5.7 mmhg (all p less than 0.05).
wernicke-korsakoff syndrome complicating t-cell lymphoma: unusual or unrecognized? malnutrition rather than alcohol abuse is the common element in most cases of wks. our report may be the first to identify both the clinical and neuropathologic features of the syndrome in a patient with t-cell lymphoma. the coincidence of these two illnesses underscores a need to consider wernicke's encephalopathy in debilitated individuals with malignancy or other chronic illnesses, highlights an atypical presentation of acute wernicke's encephalopathy, and demonstrats the precipitation of that syndrome by glucose feeding. attention to a patient's nutritional status and the liberal use of thiamine may prompt early recognition of the syndrome or prevent it entirely.
effects of differential touch on nervous system arousal of patients recovering from cardiac disease. previous research suggests that the neural properties of certain types of touch as well as their perceived significance to the disease state may be related to heightened activation of the nervous system. in this study the effects of different types of touch on nervous system arousal were examined in 59 adult patients who were receiving treatment for coronary artery disease. they were exposed to a standardized protocol that systematically varied the neural properties and procedural nature of the touch received. measures of cardiovascular reactivity (heart rate and rhythm data as well as blood pressure measurements) and state anxiety were used as indexes of arousal. the results indicated that all types of touch evoked heart rate deceleration in contrast to both baseline and verbal conditions. however, there were no differential effects related to either the neural properties or procedural nature of touch. diastolic blood pressure and state anxiety were also lower as a result of the touch. no changes were observed for systolic blood pressure or heart rhythm. in general, findings suggested that touch served to reduce arousal rather than to produce negative psychophysiologic consequences for recovery.
use of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and management of posterior fossa hemangioblastomas. the diagnosis of central nervous system hemangioblastoma as well as the surgical treatment requires the accurate radiologic visualization of both the cystic and solid components of the tumor. we report two cases of posterior fossa hemangioblastoma examined with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, which clearly defined the tumor nodule that was not visualized on noncontrast magnetic resonance imaging, contrast-enhanced computed tomography scans, or angiography. in both cases the operative findings precisely correlated with the gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance image. gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging is the examination of choice for preoperative evaluation of posterior fossa hemangioblastoma. in cases of von hippel-lindau syndrome, magnetic resonance imaging is a useful tool for clinical screening as well as follow-up.
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery--ii: incidence and severity during the 1st week after surgery. the study of perioperative ischemia (spi) research group. because of the importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia and because substantial physiologic changes can occur for prolonged periods postoperatively, the incidence, severity and temporal course of myocardial ischemia were studied in 100 high risk patients during the 1st week after major noncardiac surgery. electrocardiographic (ecg) changes consistent with ischemia were continuously monitored using ambulatory solid state ecg in the 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease. ischemic episodes were defined as reversible st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm above the baseline value, with the baseline adjusted for respiratory and positional variation and temporal drift. all ischemic episodes were confirmed by three independent blinded investigators using hard-copy recordings. total ecg monitoring time was 10,445 h. twenty-seven patients (27%) developed 437 episodes of ischemia during the 1st week after surgery. the total duration of ischemia was 18,658 min, or 1.8 min of ischemia/h monitored. ischemia was most severe during the early (days 0 to 3) versus late (days 4 to 7) postoperative period: 284 versus 153 episodes; 2.2 versus 1.2 min of ischemia/h. the greatest severity occurred on postoperative day 3: 109 episodes, 3.4 min of ischemia/h monitored, 1.5 mm mean st change and 130 min mean duration. however, in 8% of patients, severe episodes also occurred late: postoperative day 6 = 44 episodes, 1.7 min of ischemia/h monitored, 1.3 mm mean st change (59% greater than or equal to 2 mm) and 92 min mean duration. most ischemic episodes (57%) were associated with tachycardia.
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia (pseudomonas maltophilia) in patients with cancer. from december 1985 to may 1986, xanthomonas maltophilia (formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time. the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study. twelve (71%) of the 17 infected and nine (50%) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy. eleven of 17 patients (three of seven with septicemia, three of five with pneumonia, three with urinary tract infection, and two with wound infection) responded to antimicrobial therapy. microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit. x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients, especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy.
osteoblastoma of the spine. a review of 75 cases. clinical and radiologic features of 75 cases of osteoblastoma of the spine were reviewed. in addition to pain, which was the most frequent complaint, 18 patients demonstrated objective neurologic deficit, while scoliosis was observed in 17 patients. aspirin yielded pain relief in 13 patients. pathologic fracture was not encountered. the radiologic and histologic characteristics of osteoblastoma of the spine are indistinguishable from those arising in other sites. the typical lesion exhibited a well-defined, geographic margin with a sclerotic, frequently lobulated border. approximately one half of the cases were predominantly lucent, the remainder displaying varying degrees of matrix mineralization. distribution of the osteoblastomas through the spinal axis was as follows: cervical-29, thoracic-16, lumbar-17, sacral-13. other significant findings included posterior element involvement in 73 of 75 cases, and a striking male to female ratio of 2.5 to 1.
[ca2+]i transients in the cardiomyopathic hamster heart. intracellular [ca2+] transients were studied in isolated hearts of healthy and cardiomyopathic hamsters in late failure perfused with glucose or pyruvate. hearts of healthy hamsters developed similar pressures when perfused with either glucose or pyruvate, and [ca2+]i transients were comparable in amplitude when perfused with either substrate. on the other hand, hearts of cardiomyopathic hamsters in late failure developed normal pressure when perfused with pyruvate but developed depressed pressure (50%) when perfused with glucose. the amplitude of [ca2+]i transients fell severely and was associated with a high diastolic [ca2+]i in cardiomyopathic hamster hearts when the perfusate was switched from pyruvate to glucose. the high phosphomonoester sugars as evidenced by 31p nuclear magnetic resonance studies and the depressed oxygen consumption in the cardiomyopathic hamster hearts perfused with glucose reflect an inhibition in glycolysis and a subsequent decrease in mitochondrial activity. without an adequate delivery of substrate to the mitochondria in the cardiomyopathic hamster, the myocardium is no longer capable of maintaining its [ca2+]i homeostasis.
inguinal hernia complicating flexible sigmoidoscopy. flexible sigmoidoscopy has become part of routine preoperative workup for patients over the age of fifty who present with an inguinal hernia. a recent experience with two patients with a left inguinal hernia allowing sigmoid colon to herniate into the scrotum bring awareness of the possibility for an increased risk of perforation of the sigmoid colon during flexible sigmoidoscopy, or possible iatrogenic incarceration of the hernia. these cases are presented so this clinical entity can be recognized and the complications prevented.
hepatocellular carcinoma within siderotic regenerative nodules: appearance as a nodule within a nodule on mr images. large regenerative nodules in cirrhotic livers may accumulate iron and develop internal iron-poor foci of hyperplasia or malignancy. magnetic resonance examinations were performed on 23 patients with biopsy-proved cirrhosis. a "nodule-within-nodule" appearance was noted in two patients. this appearance consisted of markedly low intensity of a large nodule on gradient-echo images, with one or two internal foci that were isointense to the liver. each of the large nodules was 2 cm in diameter, and each of the internal foci was less than 1 cm. serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were normal in both patients. aspiration biopsy performed in one patient failed to show malignancy, but histologic confirmation of hepatocellular carcinoma was obtained eventually in both cases. the nodule-within-nodule sign, which reflects the unique histopathology of hepatocellular carcinoma in large siderotic regenerative nodules, is strongly suggestive of early hepatocellular carcinoma, even if serologic markers and biopsy results do not support this diagnosis.
medical dissolution of gallstones. clinical experience of d-limonene as a simple, safe, and effective solvent. retained gallstones in the bile ducts account for 60-70% of all the cases of postcholecystectomy syndromes. a solvent d-limonene preparation was injected directly to the biliary system of 200 patients to dissolve or disintegrate the retained gallstones. the outcomes were: retained stones completely disappeared in 96 cases (48%); partial dissolution in 29 (14.5%); chelating agent was also used with partial dissolution in 16 (8%); ineffective in 59 (24.5%). to make this method more effective, several guidelines should be observed including an in vitro trial dissolution test. cautious observation for possible side effects and frequent hepatic and pancreatic function tests during the treatment with this preparation also should be performed.
relevance of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity for beta blockers. intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (isa) characterizes a group of beta blockers that are able to stimulate beta-adrenergic receptors (agonist effect) and to oppose the stimulating effects of catecholamines (antagonist effect) in a competitive way. partial agonists are ligands that elicit a submaximal response when bound to beta receptors at maximal occupancy. in the isolated rat atrium, acebutolol produces a maximal stimulatory effect that is only 17 +/- 8% of the maximal effect induced by the full beta agonist isoproterenol. the presence of isa results in less resting bradycardia and less of a reduction in cardiac output than is observed with beta blockers without isa. in the long term, partial beta agonists may produce arterial vasodilation and increase arterial compliance, possibly leading to additional beneficial effects in the treatment of hypertension. beta blockers with isa do not have adverse effects on plasma lipoproteins during long-term treatment; in addition, the presence of isa could counteract the up-regulation of beta adrenoceptors often observed with beta blockers without isa. finally, the presence of isa has been a conflicting issue for the use of such beta blockers in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. however, the impressive results of the acebutolol prevention of secondary infarction trial in high-risk patients after myocardial infarction show that acebutolol, a beta blocker with moderate partial agonist activity, can be effective in decreasing the postinfarction mortality rate. by exhibiting a strikingly different hemodynamic profile from that of beta blockers without isa, the partial beta agonists form an intriguing pharmacologic class of drugs for which prospective clinical trials should be extensively pursued.
post-cannulation radial artery aneurysm--a rare complication. the following case report describes an expanding aneurysmal dilatation of the radial artery which developed 17 days following cannulation. possible causes of this complication are: abnormal state of the vessel wall, multiple attempts at cannulation, and haematoma or infection at cannulation site. other major and minor sequelae following arterial cannulation are reviewed.
screening for early dementia using memory complaints from patients and relatives. this study examined whether the subjective impression of memory function might differentiate healthy elderly subjects from patients with memory complaints, and whether memory complaints differed between patients with and without a dementing illness. both self-assessment and relatives' responses on a new memory questionnaire differentiated patient groups from control subjects. the relatives' form measuring deterioration in memory function over time identified dementing individuals from those with non-dementing causes for their memory complaints. factor analysis indicated that patients' memory complaints correlated with depression rather than objective memory performance, while relatives' ratings correlated with objective memory scores, not depression. stepwise discriminant function analyses showed that objective memory testing greatly improved specificity but not sensitivity of the subjective memory questionnaire alone.
overestimation of myocardial infarct size by histologic measurement in a model of occlusion followed by reperfusion. we studied 32 transverse left ventricular slices of myocardium from 16 pigs after 45 to 100 minutes of coronary artery occlusion followed by 180 minutes of reperfusion. infarct area for each slice was determined as follows: (1) grossly, by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining of each slice, and (2) microscopically, by complete histologic sectioning of the triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained surface of each slice. planimetry of necrotic and nonnecrotic areas was performed from tracings and photographs of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained slices and from actual histologic sections. when triphenyl tetrazolium chloride and histologic measurements were compared, necrotic tissue area had decreased 11.4% +/- 15.0% (2.59 +/- 1.04 vs 2.09 +/- 0.86 cm2). nonnecrotic tissue area decreased 20.6% +/- 24.0% (8.31 +/- 3.79 vs 5.16 +/- 2.73 cm2). in this model of ischemia followed by reperfusion, with fixation and processing, viable tissue shrank almost twice as much as necrotic tissue. this differential shrinkage introduces an error resulting in overestimation of infarct size by histologic quantitation.
cirrhosis of the liver. a risk factor for development of cholelithiasis in males. an ultrasonographic study about the prevalence of cholelithiasis was performed in 410 cirrhotic patients and in 414 controls matched for age and sex. gallstone disease was found more often in cirrhotic patients (31.9%) than in controls (20.7%) (p less than 0.001). the female-to-male ratio of gallstones prevalence in cirrhotic patients approached to 1:1. gallstone disease in cirrhotic patients vs controls was significantly higher (30.2% vs 16.5%) (p less than 0.001) in males only. no difference was found, for gallstone disease prevalence in cirrhosis of different etiology. the prevalence of cholelithiasis increased from child's a to child's c with a significant trend (p less than 0.001); this difference was significant in males (12.3% vs 40.5%) (p less than 0.001) but not in females. this study shows that cirrhosis represents a risk factor for the development of cholelithiasis in males. we suggest that high levels of estrogens could play a role in these patients, by an impairment of gallbladder emptying similar to that observed in pregnant women.
pulmonary blastomas. pulmonary blastoma is a rare lung tumor composed of immature mesenchyme and/or epithelium that morphologically mimics embryonal pulmonary structure. the prognosis of these tumors is poor, and the clinical course is not readily predicted from histologic appearance. in this report, the clinical, gross, microscopic, and immunopathologic features of 52 cases are described, and prognostically important correlates are determined. twenty-eight patients were women, and 24 were men. there was a unimodal age peak in the fourth decade; only two patients were younger than 10 years old, and both had biphasic blastomas. forty-one percent of patients were asymptomatic. chest radiography typically showed a peripheral or midlung mass without predilection for any lobe. microscopically, tumors could be divided into two classes: those composed solely of malignant glands of embryonal appearance (well-differentiated fetal adenocarcinomas [wdfa], 28 cases) and those with a biphasic appearance (24 cases). the malignant epithelium contained cytokeratin, carcinoembryonic antigen, milk fat globulin, and often chromogranin; vimentin, actin, and less frequently desmin and myoglobin were present in malignant stromal cells. more often wdfa was a smaller tumor (less than 5 cm) than biphasic tumors (p less than or equal to 0.001). it was more likely to be asymptomatic (p less than or equal to 0.001), and it was less likely to show pleural effusion by chest radiography (p less than or equal to 0.01) or giant or bizarre tumor cells (p less than or equal to 0.001) or frequent (greater than or equal to 30 mitoses/10 high-power fields) mitoses in the microscopic sections (p less than or equal to 0.01). only 14% of patients with wdfa died of their tumor; 52% of patients with biphasic tumors died (mean follow-up, 97 months and 49 months, respectively). for patients with wdfa, the presence of thoracic adenopathy by chest radiography (p less than or equal to 0.001) and metastasis at initial presentation (p less than or equal to 0.001), followed by tumor recurrence (p less than or equal to 0.01), were the factors most highly correlated with poor prognosis. for patients with biphasic tumors, tumor recurrence (p less than or equal to 0.001) was the most significant indicator of poor prognosis, followed by metastasis at initial presentation (p less than or equal to 0.05) and gross size of the tumor (greater than or equal to 5 cm) (p less than or equal to 0.05). these findings support the idea that histologic class and gross and clinical findings can be of prognostic value in pulmonary blastoma.
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis. a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis, ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis.
the effects of vitamin k on the generation of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (pivka-ii) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. the clinical significance of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (pivka-ii) in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) was investigated in 112 patients with and without vitamin k administration. the positivity rate of pivka-ii was significantly decreased in patients receiving vitamin k (28.5%), compared with those without vitamin k administration (54.5%, p less than 0.05). the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives [phylloquinone (vk1), menaquinone-4 (mk4), and menaquinone-7 (mk7)] measured were not decreased in patients with hcc, but were significantly increased in mk4 and vk1 + mk4 + mk7. the amount of pivka-ii in plasma did not correlate with the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives. however, pivka-ii was decreased by the administration of vitamin k, and all of the six patients with more than 5.0 ng/ml of vk1 + mk4 + mk7 were within normal limits, whereas half of 32 patients with less than that had abnormal levels of pivka-ii. thus, it was suggested that pivka-ii was not elevated due to vitamin k deficiency, but might result from the impaired metabolism or availability of vitamin k in the tumor. therefore, pivka-ii should be measured without vitamin k administration.
fatigue failure of noncemented porous-coated implants. a retrieval study. the causes of mechanical failure of five noncemented porous-coated components were studied. there were two cobalt-chromium alloy and three titanium alloy implants which fractured after 12 to 48 months. the implants included one acetabular component, and one femoral condylar, one patellar and two tibial components. examination of the fractured surfaces revealed fatigue to be the mechanism of failure in all cases. the porous coating and the processes required for its fabrication had resulted in weakening and reduction of substrate thickness. additional factors were stress concentration due to limited, localised bone ingrowth, and some features of the design of the implants.
melanocytic lesions and melanocyte populations in human epidermis. basal melanocytes were counted and atypia assessed on an arbitrary scale in punch biopsies from the sun-exposed extensor aspect of the forearm of normal skin and from the covered skin of the buttock of patients with pigmented naevi and control subjects. the difference in melanocyte counts and in the presence of atypia between sun-exposed and covered skin was statistically highly significant. the only other difference was between melanocyte counts in covered skin from those with multiple atypical naevi and all other groups; the counts in the former were greater than those in the latter. no further difference was attributable to sun exposure, skin type or diagnostic group. some degree of melanocyte atypia was seen in approximately half of the biopsies of sun-exposed skin, but atypia was seen in only six of 84 biopsies of covered skin. in each case atypia was present in the corresponding forearm biopsy and all six subjects had pigmented lesions (four with melanoma and two with multiple atypical naevi). it seems possible that while increased melanocyte counts in covered skin could correlate with the presence of atypical naevi, atypia of covered epidermal melanocytes could possibly relate to melanoma risk.
increased arterial adrenaline is related to pain in uncomplicated myocardial infarction. plasma levels of catecholamines, beta-thromboglobulin (btg) and arginine vasopressin (avp), and degree of pain were examined in 22 patients with suspected uncomplicated myocardial infarction within 24 h following onset of chest pain. sixteen patients developed infarction with peak creatine phosphokinase at 1280 ul-1 (range 293-3770 ul-1). fifteen healthy men served as controls (c). arterial adrenaline levels were significantly higher in patients with pain (1.15 +/- 0.23 nmol l-1, n = 8, mean value +/- sem) than in those without pain (0.60 +/- 0.10 nmol l-1, n = 14, p less than 0.05). plasma catecholamines were moderately but significantly elevated in myocardial infarction; the concentration of arterial adrenaline was 0.83 +/- 0.14 nmol l-1 and that of arterial noradrenaline was 2.70 +/- 0.28 nmol l-1 compared with 0.44 +/- 0.04 nmol l-1 (p less than 0.025) and 1.47 +/- 0.05 nmol l-1 (p less than 0.0005), respectively, in c. one week later, plasma catecholamines had returned to baseline levels. plasma btg showed borderline elevation (1.0 +/- 0.1 pmol l-1) compared with c (0.6 +/- 0.1 pmol l-1, p = 0.04), and remained unchanged 1 week later. plasma avp was at baseline level. uncomplicated myocardial infarction, regardless of size, was associated with only moderately increased sympathetic tone. plasma adrenaline was related more to the degree of pain than to the presence of acute myocardial infarction. arterial adrenaline may be a sensitive marker of sympatho-adrenal activity related to pain.
stationary vs. mapping manometry in evaluating dysphagia. two methods are used to assess esophageal motility. the mapping technique uses catheter withdrawal at 1 cm steps until the entire esophagus is evaluated. a simpler method is commonly used that involves keeping the catheter stationary for the entire evaluation. we compared these 2 techniques in 30 patients referred for the evaluation of dysphagia. emphasis was placed on the distal 10 cm of the esophagus because this is the primary location of esophageal motility disorders. there was excellent correlation between techniques for mean distal amplitude (r = 0.945), mean distal duration (r = 0.942), and percentage of non-peristaltic contractions (r = 0.967). the overall manometry diagnosis was similar by both methods in 27 (90%) patients. three patients had different manometry diagnoses resulting from use of the two techniques. however, the change in diagnosis was only clinically important in one patient in whom the mapping technique identified a segmental motility disorder that had been missed by the stationary technique. stationary manometry had a 94% sensitivity and 93% specificity rate for identifying motility disorders compared to mapping manometry. we conclude that stationary manometry is a simple and accurate method for evaluating esophageal pressures and distal disorders. only those patients with normal results of stationary studies may benefit by further mapping to identify rare segmental motility disorders.
the role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices. peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension, and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding. treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices, stoma revision with devascularization, injection sclerotherapy, portacaval shunt, or liver transplantation. we reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices, who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis. fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients. surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients, although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients. injection sclerotherapy, used in three patients, effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery. definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding (portacaval shunt or liver transplantation) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery.
thallous chloride uptake and dna profile in parathyroid adenomas. thallium isotope scintigraphy is used to localize parathyroid adenomas but the mechanism underlying the technique is poorly understood. while larger adenomas are reliably localized the results are less certain for small tumours. this study explores the relationship between cellular dna profile and thallium uptake (localization accuracy) in 24 parathyroid adenomas. the dna profile was assessed using flow cytometry and standard subtraction thallium scintigraphy was performed before surgery. fifteen of the 24 adenomas demonstrated excessive mitotic activity and 13 of these glands were accurately localized. of the remaining nine glands, only five were localized accurately (p less than 0.01, chi 2 test including yates' correction). this difference in thallium uptake could not be accounted for on the basis of gland weight. thallium localization of parathyroid adenomas is related to mitotic activity. this may explain some of the limitations of this technique.
peptic ulcer perforation as the presentation of zollinger-ellison syndrome. we examined the characteristics of patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome who developed a perforation prior to diagnosis to determine whether any clinical features were useful markers of the syndrome. of 160 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome, perforation occurred prior to the diagnosis being made in 11 (7%). at surgery, perforations were found in the duodenum in six cases and in the jejunum in five. in no case was tumor identified at emergency surgery, and the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome was made only in the postoperative period when excessive gastric secretions were noted. neither acid output nor serum gastrin concentration were useful predictors for perforation. the patients, six men and five women, were 27-61 years old (median 48) and one had men-1. three patients had no symptoms prior to the perforation. the other eight had symptoms for 1-15 years, with diarrhea occurring in 45% of the cases. following the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome, patients were given medication to control gastric acid hypersecretion. eight patients remained well, but the three patients who had had a partial gastrectomy had a complicated course despite medical therapy. although features of perforation in zollinger-ellison syndrome are not specific, jejunal perforation or perforation associated with a history of diarrhea is suggestive of the diagnosis. serum gastrin should be measured in every case and a partial gastrectomy avoided.
induction, blockade and restoration of a persistent hypersensitive state. a new model of chronic hypersensitivity was developed in the rat by daily intraplantar administration of either prostaglandin e2 dopamine or isoprenaline, for a period of 2 weeks. like other hyperalgesic mediators, dibutyryl-camp, when applied to the paws, caused an acute effect but did not produce persistent hypersensitivity. the persistent hypersensitive state was not affected by a typical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (indomethacin), was temporarily inhibited by a centrally acting analgesic (morphine), was partially inhibited by a protein synthesis inhibitor (cycloheximide) and abolished by a single dose of peripherally acting analgesics such as dipyrone or n-methyl morphine. once the residual hypersensitivity had been abolished with dipyrone or n-methyl morphine, a small dose of prostaglandin e2, dopamine or interleukin-1 beta, which in normal animals causes a mild and short lived effect, restored the persistent hypersensitive state. this ability to restore the persistent effect was not observed with intraplantar administration of dibutyryl-camp. our results suggest the existence of a peripheral trace of inflammatory pain, a phenomenon which may be associated with stimulation of neuronal adenylate cyclase and protein synthesis. this concept may explain part of the puzzle of chronic inflammatory pain and lead to the development of new analgesics.
traffic of peripheral b and t lymphocytes to hyperplastic, preneoplastic thymuses of akr mice. akr mice develop hyperplasia of the thymus before the development of retrovirus-associated lymphoma at that site. this hyperplasia, first detectable in akr/j mice by 4 weeks of age and in akr/c mice by 4 to 5 months of age, is characterized by an enlarged thymic medulla that contains t and b lymphocytes. in contrast to the general population of thymocytes, most of these t and b lymphocytes have a mature immunophenotype that includes expression of high levels of the mel-14-defined (gp90) 'homing receptor' for peripheral lymph node high endothelial venules. in vivo homing studies reveal a marked increase in traffic of peripheral lymphocytes (t more than b) to the hyperplastic thymuses of old akr mice as compared to histologically normal thymuses of age-matched balb/c and c57bl/ka mice or young akr mice. these changes correlate chronologically with changes in retrovirus antigen expression in akr thymuses and suggest a role for the traffic of lymphocytes from the periphery to the thymus in response to local antigenic stimulation in the pathogenesis of thymic hyperplasia in akr mice.
myelopathy associated with human t cell lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) in natal, south africa. a clinical and investigative study in 24 patients. unexplained spastic myelopathy in black (zulu) patients, similar to that seen in the tropics, has previously been described from natal, south africa. following reports linking the human t cell lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) to spastic myelopathy, we undertook a prospective and retrospective search for htlv-i antibodies in 36 patients who were labelled as having unexplained myelopathy; 24 (66%) were positive and htlv-i was isolated from 4 out of the 6 patients whose peripheral blood lymphocytes were cultured. eighteen (75%) gave a short history (less than 6 months). there was a female preponderance (71%), spinothalamic dysfunction was common (55%) and as many as half were severely disabled (50% wheelchair bound). routine laboratory studies showed no specific trends apart from hypergammaglobulinaemia and csf pleocytosis (greater than 5 cells/microliter in 66% of patients). the total csf protein was raised (greater than 0.4 g/l) in 45% of patients. the igg index was greater than 0.7 in 15 of 19 patients. conventional myelography did not show any specific abnormalities. computer assisted myelography was undertaken in 22 patients; 3 showed arachnoiditis and 2 spinal cord atrophy. periventricular lucencies were seen in 1 of 10 patients who had computed tomography of the head. nerve conduction studies demonstrated abnormalities in 46% of the patients indicating that subclinical peripheral nerve dysfunction was common. visual evoked responses were abnormal in only 1 patient but brainstem auditory evoked response studies showed some abnormality in 42% of the patients. the finding of htlv-i antibodies in a significant number, and the isolation of htlv-i from the blood in 6 of our black patients with noncompressive myelopathy, represents a substantial clinical advance. future studies should define more clearly the role of the virus in this disorder.
alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver--always important? we have studied the clinical histories and liver biopsy findings in 1951 consecutive adult patients with suspected chronic liver disease, and in four known piz-homozygous alpha 1-antitrypsin-deficient patients with emphysema (candidates for lung transplant) and no known liver disease, in order to assess the importance of periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver and their possible causal role in liver disease, and to assess the value of possible screening tests. periportal granules were found in 30 (1.5 per cent) of the 1951 liver biopsies and in all four known piz-homozygous subjects. they were the sole putative aetiological agent in eight of 85 patients (9.4 per cent) with otherwise cryptogenic cirrhosis and present in 2.5 per cent of patients with cirrhosis of known aetiology (alcohol, autoimmune etc.). all but one were z phenotype (seven homozygotes, 22 heterozygotes). alpha 1-antitrypsin granules were seen in 12 patients (including three of four lung transplant candidates) with no histological chronic liver disease. determination of serum alpha 1-antitrypsin levels was quite unhelpful in identifying these patients. this study does not support the concept that periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules are necessarily pathogenic, but in some cases they may be causally related to otherwise cryptogenic liver disease. the presence of granules gave no important diagnostic, therapeutic or prognostic information.
portacaval shunt versus endoscopic sclerotherapy in the elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. eighty-two consecutive child-campbell class a and b cirrhotic patients were included in a prospective controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of portacaval anastomosis vs. endoscopic sclerotherapy as elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. forty-one patients were randomized to portacaval anastomosis and 41 to sclerotherapy. after excluding dropouts, 34 patients were treated with portacaval anastomosis and 35 with sclerotherapy. the incidence of variceal rebleeding during follow-up (mean +/- sd, 20.6 +/- 14.2 months) was significantly higher in the sclerotherapy than in the portacaval groups, either considering the overall treated group or only patients completing sclerotherapy (40% and 25% vs. 2.9%; p = 0.0002 and p = 0.01, respectively). the 2-year probability of suffering from at least one episode of hepatic encephalopathy was significantly higher in patients submitted to portacaval anastomosis than in those treated with endoscopic sclerotherapy (40% vs. 12%; p = 0.04). however, disabling encephalopathy only appeared in 3 of 34 patients who underwent surgery (8.8%). early and long-term mortality did not differ between the therapeutic groups; 2-year survival rates were 83% for portacaval anastomosis and 79% for sclerotherapy. it is concluded that portacaval anastomosis is more effective than endoscopic sclerotherapy in preventing variceal rebleeding in spite of the greater incidence of hepatic encephalopathy. the role of portacaval anastomosis in the elective treatment of variceal rebleeding should be reassessed.
outpatient management of schizophrenia. as effective antipsychotic pharmacotherapy has become available, patients with schizophrenia are increasingly managed in an outpatient setting by primary care physicians. pharmacotherapy is generally effective in treating "positive," or psychotic, symptoms and lessening the risks of relapse, but ineffective in improving "negative," or deficit, symptoms. aggressive attempts to totally control positive symptoms and to ameliorate negative symptoms tend to increase side effects and may be detrimental to the patient. intensive psychotherapeutic and rehabilitative approaches are generally unproductive. attempting to obtain a cure is unrealistic. a moderate approach is recommended, taking into consideration the limitations of existing treatments, achieving control of extreme symptoms and minimizing social and occupational limitations.
an evaluation of a 30-gauge needle for spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section. a 30-gauge spinal needle was evaluated for caesarean section, using a combined epidural/spinal technique, in 50 mothers. spinal anaesthesia failed in six mothers and was inadequate in another six. general anaesthesia was required on one occasion. a 25% overall failure rate suggests that a 30-gauge needle is not a practical proposition for routine clinical practice.
further mapping of an ataxia-telangiectasia locus to the chromosome 11q23 region. we recently mapped the gene for ataxia-telangiectasia group a (ata) to chromosome 11q22-23 by linkage analysis, using the genetic markers thy1 and pynb3.12 (d11s144). the most likely order was cent-at-s144-thy1. the present paper describes further mapping of the at locus by means of a panel of 10 markers that span approximately 60 cm in the 11q22-23 region centered around s144 and thy1. location scores indicate that three contiguous subsegments within the [s144-thy1] segment, as well as three contiguous segments telomeric to thy1, are each unlikely to contain the at locus, while the more centromeric [stmy-s144] segment is most likely to contain the at locus. these data, together with recent refinements in the linkage and physical maps of 11q22-23, place the at locus at 11q23.
intraluminal crystalloids in struma ovarii. immunohistochemical, dna flow cytometric, and ultrastructural study. we recently encountered a unique case of follicular variant of papillary carcinoma arising in struma ovarii that contained numerous intrafollicular crystalloids. there was no evidence of capsular or vascular invasion or metastases, though the dna content of the papillary carcinoma was aneuploid. in contrast, diploid dna was manifested in the histologically benign thyroid tissue. the nature of the crystalloids and the significance of aneuploid dna content are discussed.
neuropsychological aspects of learning disabilities in epilepsy. cognitive impairment is regarded as the link between epileptic conditions and the inability to learn in school. the neuropsychological approach to learning disabilities in epilepsy, therefore, first concentrates on analyzing the differential effects of epileptic factors on cognitive function. the impact of seizure activity, localization of epileptogenic foci, and antiepileptic treatment on cognitive functioning can be evaluated based upon the results of continuous assessment with a computerized neuropsychological test system. second, learning disabilities may be evaluated on observations made during classroom performance. three issues seem to predominate in learning studies among disabled children with epilepsy: test-retest variability, deterioration, and the supposed specificity of the learning disabilities.
the diagnosis and management of aortic dissection. aortic dissection is a severe disease. most untreated patients with types i and ii (proximal) dissection and over half of those with type iii (distal) dissection die within 1 year. most of the deaths occur within 2 weeks and are caused by rupture, aortic insufficiency, and branch vessel obstruction. aortic dissection is suspected in patients with anterior chest and back pain that progresses downward. diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography, aortography, or echocardiography. appropriate medical treatment and corrective surgery, including total aortic replacement, performed in the acute and chronic stages, are now successful in over 90% of the cases; long-term results of treatment are steadily improving and are expected to exceed 50% at 10 years. the keys to a successful outcome are being aware of the symptoms of dissection, early diagnosis, and prompt application of appropriate treatment; diligent follow-up includes controlling blood pressure, decreasing the velocity of left ventricular contraction, monitoring the size of the residual aorta, and taking appropriate action if redissection, aneurysmal formation, or rupture occurs.
sucrose as an analgesic for newborn infants. the effectiveness of sucrose as an analgesic agent for newborn infants was assessed during two standard painful hospital procedures: blood collection via heel lance and circumcision. infants who drank 2 ml of a 12% sucrose solution prior to blood collection cried 50% less during the blood collection procedure than did control infants who had received 2 ml of sterile water. crying of infants who ingested sucrose returned to baseline levels within 30 to 60 seconds after blood collection whereas control infants required 2.5 to 3.0 minutes to return to baseline. like findings were obtained for infants who received sucrose on a pacifier prior to and during circumcision. specifically, control infants who underwent a standard circumcision procedure without intervention cried 67% of the time. a water-moistened pacifier reduced crying to 49% (p less than .01). crying was reduced further to 31% (p less than .05) by providing infants with a sucrose-flavored pacifier to suck. these findings, which parallel results obtained in studies of pain in infant rats, provide a potent yet simple, benign intervention to help alleviate stress and pain routinely experienced by human infants.
venous hemodynamics in a chronic venous valvular insufficiency model. to develop a large-animal model of chronic venous valve incompetence, 13 greyhound dogs underwent unilateral hindlimb venous valve lysis with a valve cutter apparatus pulled retrograde through the iliac, femoral, and lateral saphenous veins. bilateral venous pressures in the lateral saphenous vein were recorded before valve lysis, immediately after valve lysis, and at intervals from 1 to 14 weeks after valve lysis, with the dogs in the supine position and elevated 80 degrees semierect, as well as after stimulated hindlimb muscle contraction to empty the hindlimb veins. passive venous filling time with elevation and 90% venous refilling time after muscle contraction were calculated. from immediately after through 14 weeks after valve lysis, a shortened venous filling time and 90% venous refilling time as well as an elevated poststimulation venous pressure were noted. this valve lysis method successfully produced a hemodynamically verified model of venous valvular insufficiency.
cation-dependent mannose 6-phosphate receptor contains two internalization signals in its cytoplasmic domain [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 feb 15;88(4):1591] the signals required for rapid internalization of the bovine cation-dependent mannose 6-phosphate receptor have been localized to two distinct regions of the 67-amino acid cytoplasmic domain. one signal includes phenylalanine 13 and phenylalanine 18, while the other involves tyrosine 45. the former signal is more potent than the latter, but both must be present for the maximal rate of receptor internalization. each signal shares similarities with the known internalization signals of other recycling receptors.
kaposi's sarcoma involvement of the bone marrow. kaposi's sarcoma (ks) is a predominantly cutaneous malignancy with several clinical variants. extracutaneous sites of involvement are uncommon in all disease variants except epidemic ks (human immunodeficiency virus related) and the african lymphadenopathic variant. extracutaneous ks usually involves the lymph nodes, gastrointestinal tract, and respiratory tract. the authors report the first description of a patient with classic ks to have bone marrow involvement. two additional patients with ks variants and bone marrow involvement have been described. bone marrow tumor invasion should be considered in patients with ks and hematologic abnormalities.
cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in normal and neurosurgical patients: a clinical study and literature review. endothelins are a family of structurally related, potent, long-lasting vasoconstrictor peptides. there are no established normal human levels of endothelin-1 or endothelin-3 in the cerebrospinal fluid. we measured cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in five groups of patients: normal controls, patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral vasospasm, patients with severe head injuries, patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy, and a patient with a gunshot injury to the thoracic spine. endothelin-3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and may participate in cerebral vasospasm and subsequent neurologic deterioration.
myocardial capillary permeability after regional ischemia and reperfusion in the in vivo canine heart. effect of superoxide dismutase. this study assesses the effect of the superoxide anion scavenger superoxide dismutase on myocardial capillary permeability-surface area (ps) products for small hydrophilic molecules after ischemia and reperfusion. open-chest dogs underwent a 20-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 1 hour of reperfusion. myocardial plasma flow rate and capillary extraction of chromium 51-labeled edta or technetium 99m-labeled diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid were measured by the single-injection, residue-detection method before ischemia and 5 and 60 minutes after the start of reperfusion. in 13 dogs, no scavenger treatment was given (nonprotected control group), whereas eight dogs were treated systemically with 15,000 units/kg superoxide dismutase during 1 hour, starting 20 minutes before ischemia. in the control group, three dogs developed reperfusion ventricular fibrillation in contrast to none in the superoxide dismutase group. before ischemia, plasma flow rate, myocardial capillary extraction fraction, and ps values were similar in the two groups. five minutes after the start of reperfusion, plasma flow rate increased significantly (p less than 0.01) in both groups. in the control group, capillary extraction fraction increased by 12% (p = ns) in spite of the higher plasma flow; these increases in capillary extraction fraction and plasma flow induced a 69% increase in ps (p less than 0.01). in the superoxide dismutase-treated group, capillary extraction fraction decreased by 32% (p less than 0.05) in accordance with the increased plasma flow rate, resulting in an unchanged ps (p = ns). sixty minutes after reperfusion, plasma flow rate, capillary extraction fraction, and ps returned to preocclusion values in both groups (p = ns). the increased capillary extraction fraction and ps values seen in the control group suggest an increased capillary permeability after ischemia and reperfusion. superoxide anions seem to participate, directly or indirectly, in this response.
interferons and collagen production. the immunoregulatory, antiviral, and antiproliferative agents known as the interferons have profound effects on collagen synthesis. interferons alpha, beta, and gamma suppress collagen synthesis by dermal fibroblasts. in addition, interferon gamma (ifn-gamma) inhibits the constitutively increased collagen synthesis characteristic of fibroblasts derived from lesions of patients with scleroderma. ifn-gamma also inhibits collagen synthesis by myofibroblasts and synovial fibroblast-like cells. inhibition of collagen synthesis by ifn-gamma is associated with a coordinate inhibition of transcription for types i and iii collagen. in addition, ifn-gamma suppresses levels of procollagen mrna and type ii collagen synthesis in human articular chondrocytes. in vivo studies in mice have demonstrated that ifn-gamma inhibits the collagen synthesis associated with the fibrotic response to an implanted foreign body, bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis, and the healing response to cutaneous thermal burns. in the latter case, while collagen content of the wound scar was decreased, hyaluronic acid was increased in mice receiving ifn-gamma compared to controls. this is in accord with in vitro studies showing that, while interferons alpha and beta decrease production of glycosaminoglycans, ifn-gamma increases production of glycosaminoglycans. of interest, acute inflammation at sites of thermal injury, or when elicited by proinflammatory agents in separate experiments, also was suppressed in mice treated with ifn-gamma. the means by which ifn-gamma inhibits collagen synthesis involves transcriptional regulation. there is a single report that interferon alpha can decrease the size of a keloid of recent onset in a human patient. because the interferons can inhibit collagen synthesis in vivo, further studies may be warranted to evaluate the usefulness of these agents in the treatment of disease states characterized by abnormal fibrotic responses as well as their potential for altering the healing response associated with particular therapeutic interventions.
fetal abdominal abnormalities associated with genetic syndromes. sonographic technology has given the prenatal diagnostician the ability to accurately visualize fetal malformations. this article demonstrates the currently available capability of applying sonographically derived information concerning fetal dysmorphology to our knowledge of genetic disorders and syndromes. as a result, there can be a significant improvement in the management and counseling of these patients. after an initial discussion of normal embryology, principles of abdominal ultrasonography are discussed and applied to the following anomalies: omphalocele, gastroschisis, diaphragmatic hernia, duodenal atresia, other intestinal atresias and stenoses, renal anomalies, and obstructive uropathies.
effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia. dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders. aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates. assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively. this prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients' caloric intake and body weight, decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia, or improve patients' feeding ability. patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit. a time series design was utilized. the control group consisted of 15 patients (mean age = 46.1 years), managed according to the existing ward routine. subsequently, nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program. following this, the treated group of 16 patients, (mean age = 49.3 years) was assessed by the dysphagia team, using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder. an individualized treatment program was designed for each patient. the groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight, deviation from ideal energy intake, and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia. statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age, number of days on the study, and glasgow coma scale score; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group. no incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group. we speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups.
phenytoin administration by constant intravenous infusion: selective rates of administration. study objectives: to determine the adequacy of seizure control and the adverse effects of administering an iv loading dose of phenytoin by constant infusion pump. design: a prospective study of patients presenting with acute onset of seizures. patients were divided into two groups. group 1 comprised all patients 50 years of age or younger without a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd). group 2 comprised all patients older than 50 years or with a history of ascvd. setting: a rural community hospital emergency department. type of participants: forty-two adult patients. interventions: both groups received an iv loading dose of phenytoin at 15 mg/kg. infusion rates were 50 mg/min and 25 mg/min for groups 1 and 2, respectively. cardiac rhythm and vital signs were monitored throughout and after infusion. measures and main results: group 2 demonstrated significantly more cardiovascular side effects (hypotension and bradycardia) than did group 1 (fisher's exact test, p less than .05). conclusion: phenytoin provided adequate seizure control in both groups. for individuals with ascvd, iv phenytoin administration rates should not exceed 25 mg/min. for individuals without ascvd, phenytoin administration at 50 mg/min appears safe and without significant cardiovascular side effects.
facilitating clinical trials. the expanding role of the nurse. clinical trials are becoming increasingly difficult to carry out in the face of a changing health care delivery system. the reluctance of third party payers to reimburse for experimental therapy and the growing practice of providers to limit resources allocated for the care of cancer patients undergoing such therapies seriously curtail the ability of investigators to test new cancer treatments clinically. in addition, certain beliefs, attitudes, and perceptions held by the public may interfere with patient case accrual. nurses can help facilitate both accrual to and conduct of clinical research. this article addresses selected consumer- and provider-centered factors that inhibit clinical research. the expanding role of the nurse in the areas of public education, informed consent, direct care, and collaborative research is also described.
color doppler imaging. a new noninvasive technique to diagnose and monitor carotid cavernous sinus fistulas. color doppler imaging is a recent development in ultrasonography that allows for simultaneous two-dimensional structural imaging and doppler evaluation of blood flow. with this technique, one patient with a traumatic carotid cavernous sinus fistula and two patients with spontaneous dural cavernous arteriovenous malformations were evaluated. color doppler imaging demonstrated a dilated superior ophthalmic vein with arterialized blood flow in all three patients. in two cases the diagnosis was confirmed by angiography, and in one of these cases the fistula was occluded with a detachable balloon catheter. postembolization color doppler imaging revealed return of normal venous flow in the superior ophthalmic vein. this technique offers a noninvasive means to confirm the clinical diagnosis and to track the hemodynamics of these arteriovenous fistulas. in certain cases, color doppler imaging may eliminate the need for computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of suspected arteriovenous malformations of the orbit.
supported employment: an alternative model for vocational rehabilitation of persons with severe neurologic, psychiatric, or physical disability. participation in paid work in competitive industry through placement in supported employment is compared and analyzed for 278 severely disabled persons. differential outcomes are described for persons with chronic mental illness, cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury, and dual diagnosis of chronic mental illness and mental retardation. results indicated that supported employment appears to be an effective means of assisting these historically unemployable individuals to acquire and retain work. cross-disability group differences were found in areas such as hourly wages, type of employment, services provided by employment specialists, and job retention. the results represent a baseline from which to evaluate future efforts at competitive work placement for persons with severe disabilities, using the supported-employment model.
brucella endocarditis: the role of combined medical and surgical treatment. brucella endocarditis, although a rare complication of brucellosis, is the main cause of death related to this disease. this report describes a case of aortic endocarditis due to brucella abortus in an elderly farmer with known aortic stenosis. urgent valve replacement was performed because of progressive heart failure despite appropriate antimicrobial treatment. the infection was cured with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and rifampin given for 3 months after surgery. a review of the literature reports on the 38 other cases of cured brucella endocarditis made clear the need for combined antimicrobial treatment and surgical valve replacement.
valproate in the treatment of acute mania. a placebo-controlled study. we conducted a placebo-controlled, double-blind study of valproate, a drug originally developed as an antiepileptic, in 36 patients with acute manic episodes who had previously failed to respond to or to tolerate lithium carbonate. treatment duration was 7 to 21 days, with no other psychotropic medications permitted except lorazepam up to 4 mg/d during the first 10 days of treatment. serum valproate concentrations were measured three times weekly; an unblinded investigator then adjusted dosage to produce serum concentrations between 50 and 100 mg/l. valproate proved superior to placebo in alleviating manic symptoms. the 17 patients randomized to active drug demonstrated a median 54% decrease in scores on the young mania rating scale as compared with a median 5.0% decrease among the 19 patients receiving placebo. on the 100-point global assessment scale of overall psychiatric functioning, patients receiving valproate improved by a median of 20 points as compared with a zero-point change with placebo. significant differences also emerged on the brief psychiatric rating scale and in the number of supplemental doses of lorazepam required by the patients in each group. substantial antimanic effects appeared within 1 to 4 days of achieving therapeutic serum valproate concentrations. adverse effects were infrequent, with no adverse effect appearing significantly more frequently with valproate than with placebo. we conclude that valproate represents a useful new drug for the treatment of manic patients.
screening for hypercholesterolemia among canadians: how much will it cost? [published erratum appears in can med assoc j 1991 mar 1;144(5):545] objective: to determine the cost of screening all canadians aged 30 years or more without coronary heart disease (chd) for hypercholesterolemia. data sources: the expected results of initial screening of the serum cholesterol level were estimated on the basis of 1986 canadian census data and the 1978 canada health survey. the results of repeat testing were estimated on the basis of data from the lipid research clinics prevalence study. lipid profile results were extrapolated from tests at the montreal general hospital's clinical chemistry laboratory. laboratory costs and primary care practitioner costs were provided by the canadian society of clinical chemists and provincial fee schedules respectively. main results: among 12,479,356 canadians free of chd 48.7% would be identified as being at high risk, 4.8% would be identified as being at moderate risk, and 46.6% would be reassured that their lipid risk for chd was low. the total cost of implementing the program in the first year would be $432 million to $561 million ($325 million for laboratory tests and $107 million to $236 million for visits to primary care practitioners). conclusion: the substantial cost of implementing a nationwide screening program must be weighed against the expected benefits to ensure that the final result is both practical and economically feasible.
surface and cytoplasmic expression of cd45 antigen isoforms in normal and malignant myeloid cell differentiation. the cd45 family contains protein tyrosine phosphatase (ptpase) activity and is expressed in one or more of its isoforms on all lymphohematopoietic cells. considerable work has focused on cd45 expression by lymphoid cells, but minimal work has involved granulocytes. granulocytic, or myeloid, cell differentiation is accompanied by a number of morphologic and immunophenotypic changes. this study used flow cytometric and immunocytochemical methods in conjunction with morphologic assessment to investigate the expression of cd45 isoforms during differentiation of normal and malignant granulocytic cells. on normal bone marrow cells, the quantity of surface cd45 did not change during earlier stages but did increase significantly at the terminal stages (bands and polymorphonuclear leukocytes [pmns]). cd45ro (the low relative molecular mass [mr] isoform) was very dimly expressed on immature cells but became increasingly brighter beginning at approximately the myelocyte stage. the high mr isoform (cd45ra) was virtually absent from the cell surface at all stages. only a small percentage (3-15%) of pmns expressed surface cd45ra. however, there was a cytoplasmic pool of each isoform associated with membrane-bound granules found throughout differentiation, with remarkable increases in expression at the terminal stages. in the case of acute myeloid leukemias (amls), most cases expressed surface cd45ra with, or without, cd45ro, regardless of their french-american-british (fab) classification. this appeared to be a stable process at diagnosis and relapse in individual patients and may therefore serve as a diagnostic aid. the biologic significance of this aberrant expression of cd45ra by malignant cells is unknown but raises important questions regarding the cellular processes of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation in normal and malignant cells.
veterans administration cooperative study group on hypertensive agents: effects of age on treatment results. in three double-blind studies of 1,396 hypertensive patients, the age-related effects of hydrochlorothiazide or bendroflumethazide were compared with those of propranolol, nadolol, or captopril, given singly or in combination with a thiazide. patients in each treatment group were divided into those aged 55 to 69 years and those aged under 55. whereas no age-related differences were apparent with propranolol, nadolol alone, or captopril alone, in all three studies the blood pressure-reducing effect was found to be greater in the older group of thiazide-treated patients than in the younger thiazide-treated group. the antihypertensive drugs studied are at least as effective in older as in younger hypertensive patients and the antihypertensive response with diuretics is greater in older patients than in younger patients.
erythrocyte polyamine levels in human prostatic carcinoma. abnormally high red blood cell polyamine levels were found in benign prostatic hyperplasia and in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients. in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients a relationship was noted between the importance of red blood cell spermidine and spermine concentrations, and the clinical stage of the disease (whitmore classification). considering prostatic adenocarcinoma patient populations, patients with metastases (groups 3 and 4) statistically differed from those without metastases (group 2). furthermore, red blood cell polyamine level determination discriminated patients in the hormonal escape group (group 4) from those usually considered as hormone responsive (groups 2 and 3). no statistically significant correlation was observed between red blood cell polyamine levels and usual tumor markers (prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate specific antigen). these results confirmed that red blood cell polyamine levels must be considered as a circulating index of cell proliferation that might be of clinical importance during the long-term followup and treatment of prostatic adenocarcinoma patients.
repetitive intraoperative mapping and cryotherapy improve the results of endocardial resection for ventricular tachycardia. patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or a history of a sudden cardiac death episode and ventricular tachycardia inducible in the electrophysiology laboratory have a high incidence of recurrence and a high mortality despite medical therapy. map-guided endocardial resection has improved treatment results, but is associated with a 10-30% failure rate. in our initial experience with endocardial resection (group i) we incurred a 30% treatment failure rate. in the present study we have found the addition of sequential intraoperative mapping and routine use of cryotherapy (group ii) improved our results of ventricular tachycardia control without significant additional morbidity or mortality.
response of bitot's spots in preschool children to vitamin a treatment. in a double-masked, placebo-controlled, clinical trial in indonesia, 88 preschool children between the ages of 36 and 72 months with bitot's spots were randomly assigned to 200,000 iu of oral vitamin a or placebo and followed up for five weeks. baseline and follow-up serum vitamin a levels were obtained. of the 45 children receiving vitamin a, 33 (73.3%) showed complete cure and disappearance of bitot's spots, six (13.3%) had disappearance of some but not all bitot's spots, and six (13.3%) were unresponsive to treatment. the nonresponsive children were older, all male, and had higher initial mean serum vitamin a levels, 23.0 micrograms/dl, compared to 15.9 micrograms/dl in the cured group (p = .017). these data suggest that normal vitamin a status may be found in approximately 13% of children with bitot's spots before vitamin a intervention and that one fourth of those who had bitot's spots originally will not be cured of all bitot's spots after intervention. these are important factors to consider when using bitot's spots in prevalence surveys as a clinical sign of vitamin a deficiency.
therapeutic advantage of hypoxic cells in tumors: a theoretical study the presence of hypoxic cells in solid tumors has long been considered a problem in cancer treatment, particularly for radiation therapy but also for treatment with some anticancer drugs. three general strategies are being actively explored to overcome the problem: oxygenating the tumor, sensitizing the hypoxic cells to radiation (or chemotherapy), or killing the hypoxic cells (with a hypoxic cell cytotoxin). in the present study, we have examined the impact of each of these three strategies on a standard radiation therapy regimen (30 doses of 2 gy), using either of two major assumptions: full reoxygenation or no reoxygenation of the tumor cells. we demonstrate that a hypoxic cell cytotoxin can produce a level of tumor cell killing higher (by several orders of magnitude) than that produced by full oxygenation of a tumor or by use of an optimum hypoxic cell radiosensitizer, provided the cytotoxin kills more than approximately 50% of the hypoxic cells each time it is given. the only assumption that makes a difference is whether reoxygenation occurs: in the worst case (ie, no reoxygenation), the hypoxic cell cytotoxin performs only as well as an optimum radiosensitizer. the analysis shows that hypoxic cells in tumors can be a major therapeutic advantage. therefore, we recommend that research efforts be concentrated on development of superior hypoxic cell cytotoxins rather than improved hypoxic cell radiosensitizers and that, in parallel, emphasis be placed on development of agents to increase hypoxia.
managing dysphagia. special problems in patients with neurologic disease. swallowing is a brief but intricate process. when this process is interrupted, as in patients with neurologic disorders, problems such as aspiration and risk of malnutrition can occur. the authors of this article discuss an individualized approach to evaluation and management of neurogenic oropharyngeal dysphagia. three cases illustrate the diversity of causes, signs and symptoms, and clinical course.
surgical resection of cor triatriatum in a 74-year-old man. review of echocardiographic findings with emphasis on doppler and transesophageal echocardiography. a 74-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with congestive heart failure secondary to cor triatriatum. he also had sick sinus syndrome with complete heart block and syncope that had been treated with a permanent pacemaker 20 years earlier. the patient underwent successful surgical resection of the atrial membrane with closure of an atrial septal defect. m-mode, two-dimensional, doppler, and transesophageal echocardiographic findings are reviewed. a unique "spike and dome" pattern on continuous-wave doppler echocardiography is described that may suggest diagnosis of cor triatriatum.
rapid histological changes in endomyocardial biopsy specimens after myocarditis. the course and response to treatment in acute lymphocytic myocarditis are conventionally monitored by endomyocardial biopsy performed every 3-12 weeks. a patient with a short history (five days) of acute myopericarditis of unknown aetiology presented in cardiogenic shock with evidence of severe systolic dysfunction on the echocardiogram. the initial biopsy specimen showed histologically unequivocal myocarditis. repeat endomyocardial biopsy after four days of treatment with steroids and azathioprine showed substantial histological improvement, a reduction in cellular infiltrate and myocardial necrosis, and interstitial fibrosis. serial biopsies at 2 weeks and then 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, and 14 months after the initial biopsy showed progressive clearing of cellular infiltrate, increasing interstitial fibrosis, and compensatory myocyte hypertrophy by 4 months. at 14 months scattered lymphocytes persisted but myocyte abnormalities had resolved completely. the patient remained symptom free and systolic function was normal during this recovery period. early endomyocardial biopsy (within one week of diagnosis) may yield useful histological information on the response to treatment in patients with myocarditis. it may not be necessary to wait the customary 3-4 weeks to repeat the biopsy. this case shows the chronology of histological changes and emphasises that a return to normal myocardial function may precede resolution of the histological abnormalities, which may persist in part or may resolve totally after the acute episode.
demonstration of an area of slow conduction in human atrial flutter. ten patients with chronic atrial flutter were studied prospectively using electrophysiologic mapping and pacing techniques to assess the mechanism of atrial flutter and the presence of an area of slow conduction in the atria. electrograms recorded from greater than or equal to 30 right atrial sites for each patient during atrial flutter demonstrated that right atrial free wall activation was craniocaudal and that the interatrial septum activation was caudocranial, consistent with a reentrant circuit involving the right atrium. in six patients, slow conduction occurred during atrial flutter in the inferior right atrium and was spatially associated with fractionated electrographic recordings. in the other four patients, a "missing" interval of electrical activity occurred in the inferior right atrium for an average of 40% of the atrial flutter cycle. transient entrainment criteria were demonstrated in each patient during rapid high right atrial pacing. the mean activation time from the high right atrial pacing site to the coronary sinus (inferior left atrial) recording site was long (228 ms) and consistent with activation through an area of slow conduction. during rapid pacing of atrial flutter from the coronary sinus site, no transient entrainment criteria could be demonstrated. the mean activation time from the coronary sinus pacing site to the high right atrial recording site was relatively short (134 ms) and consistent with orthodromic activation of the high right atrium not through an area of slow conduction. high right atrial pacing during sinus rhythm at rates similar to atrial flutter demonstrated a short activation time to the coronary sinus and low right atrial sites (mean 169 and 88 ms, respectively), indicating activation that did not traverse an area of slow conduction. coronary sinus pacing during sinus rhythm demonstrated the same phenomena. low right atrial electrograms recorded during sinus rhythm and during rapid pacing of sinus rhythm were not fractionated, although they were during atrial flutter. thus, atrial mapping and pacing data were complementary, indicating that human atrial flutter in the patients studied was generated by a reentrant circuit in the right atrium, with an area of slow conduction in the low right atrium present only during atrial flutter.
role of echocardiography in acute myocardial infarction. interventional therapies such as thrombolytic agents, angioplasty and surgery have emerged as important options in the management of patients with myocardial infarction. these therapies are aimed at improving myocardial perfusion with the ultimate improvement or restoration of myocardial function. two-dimensional echocardiography with digital storage and display is an ideal technique for temporally monitoring regional ventricular function and the effectiveness of interventional therapy. by design, 2-dimensional echocardiography is noninvasive and can be performed conveniently at the bedside. for these reasons, echocardiography is the principal imaging technique at indiana university hospital for patients with acute myocardial infarction. computer retrieval of echocardiograms can be achieved in about 10 seconds at the nurses' station in the coronary care unit. with the availability of such an examination, the physician has a better understanding of the site, size and function of the infarct area. the state of the noninfarcted myocardium is also assessed and may be critical to the patient's prognosis. with the digital recordings, serial studies can be displayed side-by-side, making it easier for the physician to follow the natural history or to judge the effect of therapy. echocardiography also is useful in identifying many complications that can occur with myocardial infarction. for these reasons, and because echocardiography will also show related cardiac problems, it is indispensable in the management of acute myocardial infarction.
threshold perimetry in tilted disc syndrome. twelve consecutive patients (17 eyes) with tilted disc syndrome underwent quantified visual field examination with the g1 octopus program (interzeag ag, schlieren, switzerland). visual fields were abnormal in all cases. although field loss was more pronounced in the superotemporal quadrant (p less than .001), it also involved the other three quadrants, thus demonstrating that optic nerve hypoplasia in tilted disc syndrome is apparently not entirely sectorial. linear regression analysis showed that an increase in mean defect correlated with increase in myopic refractive error (p less than .05). however, the increase in myopic refractive error was found to be related to a decrease in corrected loss variance (p less than .05), indicating that in tilted discs with higher myopia, field loss is more homogeneous. with this series of patients, short-term fluctuation was within normal ranges in all visual fields, showing that this may be an additional clue for differential diagnosis from acquired disorders.
pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy, with review of the literature. we report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies. he developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations, nutrition being maintained intravenously. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst. he thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst, but repeat ercp shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains. pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed. a third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life. a search for the underlying cause should include an ercp to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts.
intra-abdominal palpation of a nasogastric tube in the stomach does not assure appropriate placement. improperly placed nasogastric (ng) tubes have been associated with considerable morbidity. the only reliable indicator of correct ng tube placement appears to be the aspiration of gastric contents. we have reported a case of major morbidity from an improperly placed ng tube that perforated the cervical esophagus, dissected the mediastinum, and terminated in the omental bursa. no gastric aspirate was obtained by suctioning of the tube, but correct placement was presumed based upon the surgeon's direct intraoperative palpation of the tip of the tube. failure to aspirate gastric contents should alert the practitioner to the possibility of improper ng tube placement.
light microscopic diagnosis of human microsporidiosis and variable response to octreotide. microsporida are protozoan parasites that have recently been identified as a cause of human disease in immunocompromised patients. because of their small size, they have been recognized primarily by electron microscopy. this has limited the study of their prevalence, incidence, and association with large-volume diarrhea. the present report describes two cases of enterocytozoon bieneusi infection of the small intestine in patients with intractable diarrhea in whom the diagnosis was made by light microscopy and confirmed by electron microscopy. both patients were treated with octreotide, and one had a good response.
genitourinary cancer in the elderly. the subject of genitourinary cancer in the elderly becomes increasingly more important as our population of patients older than 50 years expands. carcinoma of the kidney, bladder, and prostate all have an increasing incidence over the age of 50 and have a predilection for afflicting men more commonly than women. etiologic factors, especially with bladder and kidney carcinomas, are well documented and in some cases preventable. screening the urine for hematuria and careful digital rectal examinations may uncover a higher percentage of these malignancies in earlier, more curable stages. recent advances in the treatment of all of these malignancies have improved survival and quality of life for these patients.
selection of breast-preservation therapy for primary invasive breast carcinoma. breast-preservation treatment for primary breast cancer should not be used for all women. women frequently excluded from consideration for such treatment or who choose not to have it may be elderly and not concerned about cosmetic appearance or live at a distance so that 6 weeks of daily trips to radiotherapy would be inconvenient or even impossible. also, if radiotherapeutic expertise or facilities are not available, a breast-preservation program is difficult. in massachusetts, a full course of just over 6000 cgy (4500 cgy to the whole breast and a 1600-cgy local boost) costs roughly $6000. thus, breast preservation is more expensive than mastectomy even with reconstruction, as patients still frequently require a hospital admission with general anesthesia for an axillary dissection. although insurance policies cover such expenses, patients who do not have insurance or have inadequate coverage may find the extra expense of the breast-preservation technique burdensome or impossible. women with a small breast and a proportionately large cancer may have an unsatisfactory cosmetic outcome after appropriate lumpectomy. the cosmetic result in such patients frequently cannot be predicted beforehand; this fact adds emphasis to the need for a two-step process of lumpectomy and then re-evaluation of the cosmetic outcome as well as pathologic features for decisions regarding breast preservation. finally, women may have strikingly different attitudes toward breast preservation than expected by the surgeon. for some women, the urge to preserve the breast is so strong that they will accept virtually any risk to achieve this option, whereas for other women, the constant anxiety about a recurrence or undergoing radiation therapy is traumatic enough that they readily accept mastectomy. in our referral surgical oncology practice, roughly 60% of patients are currently treated with breast-preservation techniques; the remainder undergo mastectomy, with immediate reconstruction in approximately three fourths of the cases. the proportion of patients who elect to have breast preservation depends greatly on local medical customs and attitudes; the radiotherapeutic skills available; women's attitudes, which frequently are dependent on the local press and publicity; and the surgeon's interest and enthusiasm for such a program. there is no appropriate proportion of patients who should be treated by breast-preservation techniques, but clearly, the proportion of patients so treated increases with experience, acceptability, publicity, and availability. thus, the selection of breast-preserving therapy for individual patients is a result of an extraordinary array of factors that need to be considered in each patient.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
effective intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy for taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats in canine pancreatitis, irreversible hypotension and death follow saturation of the antiprotease molecules in peritoneal exudate by activated proteolytic enzymes which are released from the pancreas. this study has examined, in rats with taurocholate-induced pancreatitis, the efficacy of removal of the peritoneal exudate by aspiration and a single lavage, followed by instillation of an exogenous antiprotease solution. instillation of human fresh frozen plasma, containing alpha 2-macroglobulin and alpha 1-antiprotease, was associated with the longest median survival. aprotinin, although possessing a much greater trypsin inhibitory capacity, just failed to significantly improve the median survival time compared with the control group. intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy is simple to perform, has a beneficial effect on survival time in this model and merits investigation in man.
the pharmacology of intravenous and oral etoposide. the epipodophyllotoxin derivative etoposide (vp-16) has been in widespread use both alone and in combination chemotherapy for the past decade. it has phase-specific cytotoxicity that acts in the last s and g2 phases of the cell cycle. although its mode of action is not certain, it appears to act by causing breaks in dna by interaction with dna-topoisomerase ii or by the formation of free radicals. most studies show biexponential decay after the intravenous (iv) administration of etoposide. approximately 30% to 70% of administered etoposide is excreted, with approximately 45% present in the urine. etoposide is available in oral and iv preparations. it is highly schedule-dependent, with once-daily doses (e.g., for 5 to 8 days every 21 days) giving results superior to intermittent administration. the bioavailability of oral etoposide is approximately 50%, but its absorption is not linear with increasing dose (e.g., greater than 200 mg/d, bioavailability decreases). factors influencing the bioavailability of oral etoposide include patient status, concurrent medications, hepatic and renal function, and nausea and vomiting. in numerous clinical trials, etoposide has demonstrated excellent activity against a range of tumors, including small cell lung cancer (sclc), malignant lymphomas, gestational trophoblastic tumors, ewing's and soft tissue sarcomas, and germ cell tumors, with more modest activity in other tumors (e.g., non-sclc). although few comparative studies have been carried out, available data suggest that oral etoposide administered daily during 5 to 8 days is similar to the iv preparation in range of activity. in a study of 53 elderly patients with sclc treated with etoposide (200 mg/d for five times), there was a response rate of 79% and a median survival of 9.5 months. these results were similar to those achieved with more intensive iv regimens. several studies of chronic oral etoposide (50 mg/m2/d for 21 times) have been reported recently. responses were observed in sclc and germ cell tumors among patients who had relapsed after standard etoposide-containing regimens. these data suggest that etoposide may be a "new" drug when given in this schedule. the high response rates with oral etoposide suggest that oral administration may be substituted for iv administration. this substitution may allow for greater flexibility in chemotherapeutic administration, less hospitalization, and more acceptable toxicity.
clinical experience with the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in suspected benzodiazepine or ethanol poisoning. the clinical efficacy of different doses of the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil was studied in a total of 72 patients with benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose. in a randomized double-blind study, 18 patients (group 1) and eight patients (group 2) with suspected benzodiazepine overdose received 5 mg (group 1) or 1 mg (group 2) flumazenil or placebo, respectively. the stage of coma, heart rate, blood pressure and respiratory rate were monitored within the following 15 min. if no change in the stage of coma was observed, 5 mg (group 1) or 1 mg (group 2) flumazenil were given, and the stage of coma, heart rate and blood pressure were again monitored. in a similar way, the effect of 5 and 1 mg flumazenil was investigated in 13 patients (group 3) and four patients (group 4) with ethanol intoxication. in an open trial, the clinical efficacy of flumazenil for the diagnosis of benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose was studied in 29 patients (group 5). in all patients, a toxicological screening confirmed benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose. none of the patients receiving placebo showed effects on stage of coma, heart rate, blood pressure or respiratory rate. patients with benzodiazepine overdose who received 5 mg flumazenil regained consciousness about 1-2 min after the end of injection. the effect of 1 mg flumazenil (group 2) on benzodiazepine-induced coma was less pronounced. in patients with ethanol overdose (group 3), ethanol-induced coma was reversed after 5 mg flumazenil more slowly than in patients of group 1. no effect of flumazenil on ethanol-induced coma was observed in group 4. in group 5, flumazenil proved to be useful for diagnosing benzodiazepine or ethanol intoxication. in one patient with coma due to carbamazepine overdose, flumazenil was also found to be effective. additionally, a possible analytical interference of flumazenil and its metabolites with the identification of other benzodiazepines by a toxicological screening procedure was studied. even after an oral dose of 200 mg flumazenil, no interference with immunological benzodiazepine assays (emit, tdx, and ria) was found. a metabolite and an artifact of flumazenil could be identified in urine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.
aortic regurgitation after left ventricular myotomy and myectomy. five hundred twenty-five patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy underwent left ventricular myotomy and myectomy (lvmm) from 1960 to 1990. four hundred ninety-six had nonregurgitant trileaflet aortic valves before lvmm. in 19 (4%) of these patients, aortic regurgitation developed after lvmm. age of the 19 patients ranged from 10 to 58 years (mean age, 35 +/- 3 [+/- standard error of the mean]]. seven were male and 12, female. five patients underwent lvmm followed immediately by aortic valve replacement or valvuloplasty. aortic regurgitation developed in 14 patients at a later date. the average new york heart association functional class improved from 3.2 +/- 0.1 to 1.3 +/- 0.1 (p less than 0.05, student's t test) after operation. the average peak systolic left ventricular outflow tract gradient at rest and with provocation decreased from 65 +/- 8 to 14 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.05) and 108 +/- 9 to 45 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.05), respectively, 6 to 8 months after operation. aortic regurgitation occurred in 7 of the 14 patients at 6 months or less after operation, and 3 required operative repair. in the other 7 patients, aortic regurgitation developed 3 years or more after lvmm, and 3 of them also required operative repair. all 12 patients in whom aortic regurgitation developed at operation or within 6 months postoperatively had either a very small aortic annulus (less than or equal to 21 mm, 5 patients), a low mitral-septal contact lesion (greater than or equal to 35 mm below the aortic annulus, 3 patients), or both (4 patients).
increase in native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci: an anglo-french clinical and microbiological study. native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci has become more common. a study of 35 cases showed that the infections were usually acquired in the community and occurred in men (mean age 51 years). a pre-existing cardiac abnormality (mitral leaflet prolapse in a third of patients) was detected in 26 (74%). the source of the organisms in the community acquired infections was assumed to be the skin, though lesions were seldom demonstrated; most hospital acquired infections resulted from intravenous devices. community acquired organisms were usually sensitive to penicillin, whereas those acquired in hospital were often multiresistant. most infections were caused by staphylococcus epidermidis. the frequency of acute presentation (26%) and of major neurological abnormality (23%), together with the need for valve replacement (often emergency) (51%) and the mortality (36%) suggest that coagulase negative staphylococci can be virulent aggressive pathogens, mimicking staphylococcus aureus.
concept of maximal flow ratio for immediate evaluation of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty result by videodensitometry. background. in the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), immediate information about the result of the intervention is important, whereas morphological parameters are often less reliable than in diagnostic coronary arteriography. recently, a new videodensitometric method was introduced and validated in animal experiments, which allows accurate comparison of maximal myocardial perfusion between situations with different degrees of stenosis. this method uses mean transit time (tmn) of the contrast agent at maximal hyperemia as a parameter for maximal flow and is strictly in accordance with indicated dilation theory. methods and results. in 40 patients with angina pectoris, single-vessel disease, and a positive exercise test at the time of acceptance for ptca, this approach was applied for evaluation of the improvement of maximal flow achieved by the ptca. maximal vasodilation was induced immediately before and 15 minutes after ptca by intracoronary administration of papaverine, and digital angiographic studies were performed. by special breath-holding instruction, almost motionless, triggered image acquisition was possible during 15-20 heartbeats. excellent subtraction images could be obtained, and reliable determination of tmn at maximal hyperemia was possible in 33 patients both before and after ptca. the ratio between maximal flow after and before ptca, called maximal flow ratio (mfr), was represented by the ratio between tmn before and after the intervention and compared with the results of exercise testing 24-48 hours before and 7-10 days after the procedure. after correction for pressure changes, mfr was 2.2 +/- 1.5 for the 33 dilated vessels and 1.0 +/- 0.2 for 25 normal vessels serving as a control. in 94% of all patients, an mfr value of more than 1.6 or less than 1.6 discriminated between presence or absence of reversal of exercise test result from positive to negative. if on-line judgment of success was based upon angiographic parameters or measurement of trans-stenotic pressure gradient, the relation with noninvasive functional improvement was present only in 66% and 74% of all patients, respectively. a definite range of what can be called normal tmn at maximal hyperemia could be distinguished, and post-ptca values for successfully dilated arteries returned completely to this normal range. conclusions. accurate comparison of maximal myocardial perfusion before and after ptca is possible in man, improvement of maximal flow is highly related to functional improvement as indicated by exercise test results, and, therefore, this method provides a straightforward way for on-line evaluation of the result of the intervention.
cancer surveillance in ulcerative colitis. during a 13-year period, 213 patients with ulcerative colitis who had no clinical or endoscopic evidence of colonic carcinoma were enrolled in a biopsy surveillance program for dysplasia and carcinoma. the aims of the study were to determine whether such a program could decrease the cancer risk in this group of patients, to determine whether patients with a low risk of carcinoma could be identified, thus enabling them to retain their colon, and to accomplish these goals with a reasonable expenditure of resources. eighteen patients had dysplasia detected in the initial biopsy specimens; 15 of these patients underwent colectomy, and 7 had unsuspected carcinoma (1 dukes' stage a, 2 stage b, and 4 stage c). eleven patients had dysplasia detected during follow-up; 7 of these patients had colectomy, and only 1 patient had carcinoma (dukes' b). dysplasia developed in 5 of 20 patients with indefinite changes on initial biopsy samples; 3 of these patients underwent colectomy, and 1 patient had carcinoma (dukes' b). there was no difference in the prevalence of dysplasia between patients with left-sided disease and patients with extensive disease. with the exception of 2 patients with inadequate surveillance, there has been no clinical evidence of carcinoma in any of the 148 patients whose biopsy results remained negative throughout the study; carcinoma has not developed in any of 175 patients without dysplasia on initial biopsy sample. all 4 patients who died of carcinoma had high-grade dysplasia in their initial colonoscopic biopsy samples. it is concluded that a biopsy surveillance program can be an effective aid in helping control the risk of carcinoma in patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis, that the short-term risk of carcinoma for patients with negative biopsy results is low and colectomy for risk of carcinoma can be deferred in this group, and that patients with extensive and left-sided disease share the same risk of the development of dysplasia.
intraoperative monitoring of the facial nerve during decompressive surgery for hemifacial spasm. in 11 consecutive patients, intraoperative electromyographic (emg) recordings were made from the facial muscles during microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm. in one patient, recordings could not be obtained for technical reasons, and two patients had no abnormality. in the remaining eight patients, the abnormal response resolved before decompression in two, resolved immediately at the time of decompression in five, and failed to resolve in one. all patients were relieved of their hemifacial spasm. in the five patients whose abnormalities resolved at the time of decompression, there was a precise intraoperative correlation between decompression of the nerve and disappearance of the abnormal emg response. in three cases, this was a useful guide to the need to decompress more than one vessel. these results confirm the findings of moller and jannetta, support the use of this technique for intraoperative monitoring of facial nerve decompression procedures, and provide strong circumstantial evidence that vascular cross-compression is an important etiological factor in hemifacial spasm.
relief of injection pain in adults. emla cream for 5 minutes before venepuncture. the effectiveness of skin anaesthesia after 5 minutes' topical application of a lignocaine-prilocaine cream was evaluated. one hundred and twenty patients estimated the pain of antecubital venepuncture both on a linear scale and verbally after use of the cream for either 5 or 60 minutes, a placebo cream or no treatment. reported pain was significantly less after only 5 minutes of the lignocaine-prilocaine cream (p = 0.002). the cream can be used to relieve the pain of all routine injections.
effect of indomethacin on the pathophysiology of experimental meningitis in rabbits. the effects of indomethacin on central nervous system abnormalities in rabbits with experimental pneumococcal meningitis were studied. as expected, prostaglandin e2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were significantly lower in the indomethacin-treated group, indicating that the drug effectively reduced prostaglandin synthesis. brain edema was markedly attenuated in the indomethacin-treated group; however, cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell counts, lactate and protein concentrations, and intracisternal pressure were not significantly different between groups. it seems that indomethacin, while effective in reducing brain edema, does not significantly affect other important pathophysiologic alterations in experimental pneumococcal meningitis.
intravitreal suture: a complication of pterygium surgery. among the complications associated with pterygium surgery, scleral perforation is mentioned in cases where subconjunctival tissue must be separated from the sclera. we present a case in which such a perforation and consequent suturing resulted in an intravitreous migration of a suture. we believe this is the first report of such a complication following pterygium surgery.
dysmorphogenesis elicited by microinjected acetaminophen analogs and metabolites in rat embryos cultured in vitro. direct additions of acetaminophen (apap), 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen, 3-hydroxyacetaminophen or 3-methoxyacetaminophen to the medium of cultured embryos each produced an increased incidence of morphologically similar, abnormally open anterior neuropores. approximate concentrations required to produce an equal incidence were 0.5 mm, 1.0 mm, 0.1 mm and 0.75 mm, respectively. in contrast, 2.6-dimethylacetaminophen and n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine failed to produce elevated incidences of abnormal neurulation unaccompanied by marked growth retardation. however, with intra-amniotic microinjections, 3-hydroxyacetaminophen and n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine were roughly equipotent for eliciting abnormal neurulation, whereas 3-methoxyacetaminophen required greater than 30-fold higher concentrations. this suggests that n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine does not readily transit the visceral yolk sac and would likely not be a major factor in apap-elicited neural tube abnormalities unless generated in target tissues. the differential effects produced by two dimethylated (2.6 and 3.5) apap analogs further suggest that sulfhydryl oxidation is associated more closely than sulfhydryl conjugation with the neurulation defect. intra-amniotic microinjections of large quantities (3500 ng) of 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (7-oh-aaf) or apap failed to produce the specific neurulation defect. microinjections of 7-oh-aaf into the exocoelomic cavity effected the characteristic abnormal neurulation. conversion by conceptal homogenates of 7-oh-aaf was roughly 7- to 8-fold more rapid than conversion of apap to respective catechol metabolites, and specific activities in yolk sac tissues were greater than those in the embryo. rates of conceptal conversion to the quinoneimine were approximately 2- to 3-fold lower than catechol generation.
stress-related mucosal damage: review of drug therapy. the increased awareness of stress-related mucosal damage (srmd) that accompanied the widespread use of fiberoptic endoscopy and the increased incidence of srmd that accompanied the advances in caring for critically ill patients resulted in the recognition that the majority of patients in the intensive care unit (icu) setting wil develop mucosal damage. complications of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in these patients may contribute significantly to their morbidity and mortality, and the consequences of this bleeding may be more severe than the underlying predisposing conditions. because of the importance of gastric acid in the pathogenesis of srmd, therapy has focused on reduction of the intraluminal acid concentration. acid neutralization, while effective, is laborious and associated with side effects. h2-receptor antagonists have been used successfully in the prophylaxis and treatment of srmd and offer the potential for an effective parenteral as well as oral agent. they obviate the need for frequent antacid administration and eliminate some of the troubles and side effects that accompany an intensive antacid regimen. of the available h2-receptor antagonists, cimetidine has been the most thoroughly evaluated. it is equivalent to antacids in the prevention of overt bleeding and offers the advantage of dosing flexibility, ease of administration, and a remarkable safety profile. cimetidine has also been shown to be effective when administered by intermittent bolus infusions given every 8, 6, or 4 h or by primed continuous infusion, which has proven to be the most successful method of controlling intragastric ph.
potent toxicity of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine toward human monocytes in vitro and in vivo. a novel approach to immunosuppressive therapy. lymphoid cells were thought to be uniquely susceptible to excess 2'-deoxyadenosine (dado), when exposed to inhibitors of adenosine deaminase (ada). however, we now find that human monocytes are as sensitive as lymphocytes to dado or to the ada-resistant congener 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (cldado). monocytes exposed in vitro to cldado, or to dado plus deoxycoformycin rapidly developed dna strand breaks. both the dna damage and the toxicity of cldado or dado toward monocytes were blocked by deoxycytidine, but not by inhibitors of poly(adp-ribose) polymerase. a partial decrease in rna synthesis and a gradual decline of cellular nad were early biochemical events associated with monocyte dna damage. low cldado concentrations (5-20 nm) inhibited monocyte phagocytosis and reduced the release of interleukin 6. higher cldado concentrations led to a dose- and time-dependent loss of monocyte viability. circulating monocytes disappeared within 1 wk in patients with cutaneous t cell lymphoma or with rheumatoid arthritis during continuous cldado infusion. the marked sensitivity of human monocyte function and survival to cldado in vitro, together with the monocyte depletion in patients receiving cldado chemotherapy, suggests that cldado or other dado analogues offer a novel therapeutic strategy for chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases characterized by inappropriate monocyte deployment or function.
dipyridamole technetium-99m-2-methoxy isobutyl isonitrile tomoscintigraphic imaging for identifying diseased coronary vessels: comparison with thallium-201 stress-rest study. a same-day double injection protocol employing 99mtc-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (mibi) and myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) for detecting coronary artery disease (cad) was assessed in 30 patients. spect was performed 1 hr after a first injection (250 mbq) of 99mtc-mibi, given after 0.56 mg/kg dipyridamole (dpd) infusion. patients were then reinjected at rest (750 mbq) and were reimaged 1 hr later. within 1 wk, all patients underwent a complete stress-rest spect thallium study. of the 330 myocardial segments evaluated, 25 were judged ischemic by both techniques, while persistent defects were demonstrated in 50 and in 47 with 99mtc-mibi and 201ti, respectively. six regions were considered for diseased vessels identification. sensitivity and specificity for cad were 100% and 75%, respectively, for both 201ti and 99mtc-mibi. sensitivity for identification of diseased vessels by 201ti was 68% for lad, 89% for rca, and 80% for lcx as opposed to 75%, 89% and 80%, respectively, by 99mtc-mibi. specificity was 93% in both cases for lad, 73% and 63% for rca, and 53% and 46% for lcx.
esophageal involvement in pemphigus vulgaris: a clinical, histologic, and immunopathologic study. eleven newly diagnosed patients and one patient with pemphigus vulgaris who relapsed underwent endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract. three patients had blisters or erosions and two had longitudinal lines of erythema in the esophageal mucosa. in four patients histopathologic examination showed findings of pemphigus vulgaris but direct immunofluorescence was positive in all patients. this study demonstrates that the immunopathologic disturbance in pemphigus vulgaris involves the entire length of the esophagus, although only some patients have clinical or histologic involvement. to the best of our knowledge this is the first histopathologic and direct immunofluorescence study of esophageal involvement in patients with untreated pemphigus vulgaris.
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone. we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy. the incidences of infection, seroma, hematoma, and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients (305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction) from virginia mason medical center, seattle, wash, between 1983 and 1989. obesity, age (60 years or older), smoking, antibiotics, and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors. there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group (48% vs 31%), and specifically, more seromas (30% vs 13%). in the modified radical mastectomy group, age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection, drainage greater than 30 ml per day (at time of drain removal) with seroma, and smoking with epidermolysis. in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group, obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis. we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications.
reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release after rebleeding in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. serial blood samples were obtained from 80 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) to study adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane b2 release. the goal of the investigation was to detect whether reduced platelet function is involved in rebleeds. seventeen patients (21%) suffered a rebleed, six of those experiencing their first rebleed within 24 hours after sah. therefore, most platelet function studies were performed after rebleeds. thromboxane release was lower in patients with rebleeds than in the others, both before and after rebleeding, although statistical significance was reached only in samples collected after rebleeds. patients rebleeding within 24 hours after sah had lower platelet aggregability (p = 0.037) than patients without a rebleed in the samples taken within 3 days after sah. the results suggest that reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are involved in rebleeds following primary sah.
the combined use of apraclonidine and pilocarpine during laser iridotomy in a hispanic population. early postoperative intraocular pressure (iop) rise is a frequent and vision-threatening complication of laser surgery for glaucoma. recent studies show that apraclonidine, a new alpha-2 adrenergic agonist, can reduce the incidence of this problem. in a randomized, double-masked prospective study, we explored the efficacy of apraclonidine combined with pilocarpine during laser iridotomy in a hispanic population. a significantly lower early postoperative iop with less frequent severe pressure spikes occurred in the apraclonidine-treated patients. the addition of pilocarpine did not interfere with the beneficial effect of this medication. of particular interest was the fact that chronic angle-closure glaucoma was the diagnosis in all patients who had a significant postoperative iop rise in this study.
use of the collings knife electrode for percutaneous access in difficult endourology cases. percutaneous endourological techniques for the removal of upper urinary tract calculi and for the closed treatment of ureteropelvic junction obstruction are well described. these techniques are dependent on satisfactory percutaneous access and nephrostomy tract dilation. we used the collings knife electrode for the creation of a nephrostomy tract in 17 patients (19 renal units) with difficult percutaneous access due to scarification, or the inability to advance a guide wire sufficiently for stabilization and dilation by conventional means. a nephrostomy tract was established successfully in all 19 procedures requiring an average of 12 minutes. two major complications occurred that required blood transfusion and an open operation. endourological treatment was successful in the remaining 17 cases. we believe that this technique provides an alternative to an open operation when standard access and dilation methods for endourological procedures are unsuccessful.
effect of lovastatin on intimal hyperplasia after balloon angioplasty: a study in an atherosclerotic hypercholesterolemic rabbit. restenosis, the major limitation of balloon angioplasty, is the result of intimal hyperplasia after the procedure. lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a (hmg-coa) inhibitor, may influence intimal hyperplasia by lowering serum cholesterol and by blocking deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) synthesis. to determine whether lovastatin reduces intimal hyperplasia, a prospective, randomized blinded study was performed in 60 atherosclerotic new zealand white male rabbits. atherosclerosis was produced by air desiccation injury followed by a 28 day diet of 2% cholesterol and 6% peanut oil that was terminated before balloon angioplasty was performed. angioplasty could not be performed in 14 rabbits with bilateral femoral artery occlusion, and in one rabbit the procedure was a technical failure. forty-five rabbits underwent balloon angioplasty performed with use of a 2.5-mm balloon inflated to 10 atm for three 1 min dilations at 1 min intervals. seven rabbits died during the procedure. thirty-eight rabbits were randomized to either a lovastatin group (6 mg/kg body weight per day) or a control group. angioplasty was performed on all patent vessels (n = 54); the procedure was bilateral in 16 rabbits and unilateral in 22. fifteen lovastatin-treated and 15 control rabbits survived 39 days after angioplasty and were then killed. angiograms, obtained before and 10 min and 39 days after balloon angioplasty, were read with use of electronic calipers by two observers who had no knowledge of treatment data. after the rabbits were killed, vessels were pressure perfused using a standardized protocol to maintain in vivo dimensions for blinded quantitative histologic analysis.
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma. the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (hes) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl. the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema, persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia, organomegaly, interstitial lung change, and pericarditis. postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node, liver, lung, and kidney. the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma, and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma. other possible sequences are discussed. the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation.
enterogenous cyst of the cerebellopontine angle cistern: case report. a case of an enterogenous cyst located in the cerebellopontine angle cistern is presented. these cysts have usually been found in the spinal canal, and their intracranial occurrence is exceptional. in the present case, the cyst was lined histologically by a single epithelial layer of cuboidal cells with some glandular structures resembling the fundic glands of the stomach. the unusual location of the cyst and its histological features are discussed.
acute water intoxication as a complication of urine drug testing in the workplace urine drug testing is now mandatory in many industries. we report the first case, to our knowledge, of an adverse consequence of drug testing in the workplace: acute water intoxication. we discuss normal water metabolism and the adverse effects of water loading and impaired renal function on free water clearance. we present a literature review of seven other cases of acute voluntary water intoxication in patients without chronic psychiatric or neurologic illness. for workers undergoing urine drug testing we conclude that risk factors for acute water intoxication include (1) intake of more than 1 l of water and (2) impaired urine dilution. in a recently drug-tested worker, symptoms of cerebral dysfunction should suggest the possibility of water intoxication.
detection of coronary blood flow associated with left main coronary artery stenosis by transesophageal doppler color flow echocardiography. demonstration of disordered blood flow in a coronary artery may be helpful in anticipating the presence of stenosis. to examine the possibility of disordered coronary blood flow associated with left main coronary stenosis, left main coronary flow was visualized by transesophageal doppler color flow echocardiography in 52 patients undergoing coronary angiography. twenty patients had significant left main coronary stenosis (group 1) and 32 patients did not (group 2). adequate two-dimensional echocardiographic images of the left main coronary artery were obtained in 17 patients in group 1 and 30 patients in group 2. sixteen patients in group 1, including five patients in whom the stenosis could not clearly be defined by two-dimensional echocardiography, exhibited the aliased reddish-yellowish elements producing the mosaic pattern at the stenotic or poststenotic segments, or both. in contrast, nonaliased bluish jets, suggesting laminar flow away from the transducer, were seen in echocardiograms from 27 patients in group 2. this group included four patients with stenosis-like images on two-dimensional echocardiography. the aliased mosaic pattern was found in only three patients in group 2 (p less than 0.01). thus, sensitivity to detect the stenosis was improved when doppler color flow imaging was applied. flow velocity was significantly higher at the site of stenosis in patients in group 1 (116 +/- 28 cm/s, n = 10, mean +/- sd) than in group 2 (29 +/- 12 cm/s, n = 21, p less than 0.01), suggesting that the augmentation of flow velocity with or without turbulence due to the stenosis contributed to the appearance of the mosaic flow images.
upper genital tract isolates at delivery as predictors of post-cesarean infections among women receiving antibiotic prophylaxis. the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis for cesarean delivery has decreased the risk of postpartum endometritis and wound infection, but factors that contribute to prophylaxis failure are not understood. to determine factors that might contribute to postpartum infections following antibiotic prophylaxis, we cultured amniotic fluid, decidua, and chorioamniotic membrane specimens for anaerobic and facultative bacteria and for genital mycoplasmas at cesarean delivery. women were assessed daily for the development of infections, and if endometritis developed, a protected endometrial culture was obtained. postpartum endometritis developed in 16 and wound infection in four of 102 women. infection rates were similar for women receiving cefotetan (n = 50) or cefoxitin (n = 52) for prophylaxis. the isolation of group b streptococcus (p less than .001) or enterococcus faecalis (p = .03) from the upper genital tract at delivery was significantly associated with postpartum endometritis. antibiotic-resistant organisms (other than enterococci) were recovered uncommonly at delivery or with postpartum infections. group b streptococcus was susceptible to the prophylactic agents used, suggesting that virulence factors other than antibiotic resistance are important for the development of postpartum endometritis. group b streptococcus, e faecalis, and bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis were recovered from the endometrium at the time of postpartum endometritis.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy: an initial report. sixty consecutive patients underwent an elective attempt at laparoscopic cholecystectomy between march 15 and july 31, 1990 at the mount sinai hospital in new york. fifty-two patients had successful completion of the laparoscopic cholecystectomy (87%). the reasons for conversion to open cholecystectomy were acute cholecystitis (four patients), inability to define the cystic duct-common duct junction (three patients), and one patient with an unexpected choledochal cyst variant. forty patients (77%) were discharged on the first post-operative day, and the remaining 12 patients on the second post-operative day. thirty-three patients (63%) required only oral pain medication, and 11 patients (21%) needed no pain medication post-operatively. fifty-one patients (98%) had resumed normal activities by the seventh post-operative day. cholecystectomy remains the treatment of choice for biliary colic. laparoscopic cholecystectomy minimizes length of stay in the hospital, lessens post-operative pain, allows quicker return to normal activities, and has a superior cosmetic result.
squamous carcinoma in the liver. squamous carcinoma of the liver has only rarely been reported. we present a case which highlights not only the difficulties in diagnosis but also how it can closely mimic sclerosing cholangitis.
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery--i: incidence and severity during the 4 day perioperative period. the study of perioperative ischemia (spi) research group. to determine the incidence and characteristics of perioperative myocardial ischemia, the electrocardiographic (ecg) changes consistent with ischemia during the 4 day perioperative period were documented and characterized in 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease undergoing noncardiac surgery. using continuous two channel ecg monitoring (leads cc5 and cm5), the frequency and severity of ecg ischemic episodes defined by st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm during the preoperative (up to 2 days), intraoperative and early postoperative (first 2 days) periods were compared. preoperatively, 28 patients (28%) exhibited 105 episodes of ischemia; intraoperatively, 27 patients exhibited 39 episodes and postoperatively, 42 patients exhibited 187 episodes. there was no difference between the pre- and intraoperative episode characteristics. however, postoperative ischemic episodes were the most severe. the mean st change was 1.5, 2 and 2.6 mm for pre-, intra- and postoperative episodes, respectively (p less than 0.0001 postoperative versus pre- or intraoperative); duration of ischemic episodes was 69, 45 and 207 min, respectively (p less than 0.005 postoperative versus preoperative, p less than 0.001 versus intraoperative) and area under the st curve was 88, 74 and 383 mm.min (p less than 0.009 postoperative versus preoperative, p less than 0.005 versus intraoperative). ninety-four percent of all postoperative ischemic episodes were silent; 80% of all episodes occurred without acute change (+/- 20% of control) in heart rate and 77% of intraoperative episodes occurred without acute change in blood pressure.
detection of breakpoint cluster region- negative and nonclonal hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo after transplantation of cells selected in cultures of chronic myeloid leukemia marrow. philadelphia (ph1) chromosome-positive clonogenic progenitors usually disappear within 4 to 6 weeks in long-term cultures established from the marrow of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (cml). in contrast, coexisting chromosomally normal hematopoietic cells are relatively well maintained. thus, even though normal cells are initially undetectable, they may become the predominant population. recently, we have begun to explore the potential of such cultures as a strategy for preparing cml marrow for autografting, and based on cytogenetic studies of the differential kinetics of ph1-positive and ph1-negative clonogenic cells, have chosen a 10-day period in culture to obtain maximal numbers of selectively enriched normal stem cells. here we present the results of molecular analyses of the cells regenerated in vivo for the initial three cml patients to be treated using this approach by comparison with the differentiated cells generated by continued maintenance of an aliquot of the autograft in vitro (using a slightly modified culture feeding procedure to enhance the production and release of cells into the nonadherent fraction after 4 weeks) for the one patient whose genotype made molecular analysis of clonality status also possible. these analyses showed that cells with a rearranged breakpoint cluster region (bcr) gene were not detectable by southern blotting in either in vitro or in vivo populations of mature cells that might be assumed to represent the progeny of primitive cells present at the end of the initial 10 days in culture. production of bcr-negative cells was also shown to be temporally correlated with the appearance of nonclonal hematopoietic cells both in culture and in vivo. these findings provide support for the view that prolonged maintenance of cml marrow cells in long-term culture may allow molecular characterization of both the bcr-genotype and clonality status of cells with in vivo regenerative potential.
gastrointestinal motor dysfunction in acquired selective cholinergic dysautonomia associated with infectious mononucleosis. this report documents the disturbance in gastrointestinal motor function in a patient with selective cholinergic dysautonomia that occurred following acute infectious mononucleosis. apart from the gut, other organs affected included the pupils, sweat glands, lacrimal and salivary glands, and urinary bladder. autonomic function tests showed the preservation of sympathetic adrenergic functions in contrast to the generalized involvement of postganglionic parasympathetic and sympathetic cholinergic nerves, including denervation hypersensitivity of the pupil and urinary bladder to exogenous cholinergic agonists. cardiac and abdominal vagal responses were abnormal. colon myenteric plexus ganglion cells were normal by morphological and immunohistochemical studies, suggesting that the selective cholinergic dysautonomia was the most likely pathophysiologic process responsible for the observed motility disorder. this study documents the occurrence of selective cholinergic dysautonomia following a viral illness, the importance of the extrinsic neural control on the motor function of the gastrointestinal tract, and the usefulness of combined motility and autonomic function testing in the evaluation of patients with symptoms suggestive of gut dysmotility.
treatment of acute hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage with serial lumbar puncture. computed tomography demonstrated acute hydrocephalus less than or equal to 72 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage in 24 (23%) of 104 patients. of these 24 patients, six (25%) had no impairment of consciousness. in nine (11%) of the remaining 80 patients, acute hydrocephalus developed within 1 week after subarachnoid hemorrhage. with the exception of three patients, all 104 patients received antifibrinolytic treatment. delayed clinical deterioration from acute hydrocephalus occurred in seven (29%) of the 24 patients with acute hydrocephalus on admission and in six (8%) of the remaining 80 patients. serial lumbar puncture was performed in 17 patients. twelve (71%) of the 17 patients treated with serial lumbar puncture, including 10 (77%) of the 13 patients with delayed deterioration from acute hydrocephalus after admission, achieved improvement in the level of consciousness. four of these 17 patients (4% of all 104 patients) required an internal shunt. no patient deteriorated from coning following serial lumbar puncture. the rebleeding rate within 12 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage in hydrocephalic patients with serial lumbar puncture was not higher than the rate in those without hydrocephalus (two [12%] of 17 versus nine [13%] of 71). neither meningitis nor ventriculitis was observed. we conclude that if neither a hematoma with a mass effect nor an obstructive element exists, cerebrospinal fluid drainage with serial lumbar puncture is a good alternative to ventricular drainage in patients with acute hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage.
effects of neuroleptic agents on rat skeletal muscle contracture in vitro. the purpose of this investigation was to examine and compare the effects of both in vivo pretreatment and in vitro treatment with the neuroleptic agents droperidol, haloperidol, and trifluoperazine on skeletal muscle contracture using an in vitro model. strips of normal rat diaphragm were challenged with succinylcholine and halothane (halothane: 1% and 3%) subsequent to either in vitro administration (10-100 microm) or in vivo pretreatment (0.35-2.80 mg/kg) with droperidol, haloperidol, or trifluoperazine. after equilibration, maximum increases in tension were recorded and mean data analyzed by analysis of variance (p less than 0.05). when either droperidol or trifluoperazine was administered in vivo, contracture values after exposure to succinylcholine and halothane were significantly decreased. after in vivo pretreatment with haloperidol or in vitro administration of droperidol, succinylcholine-induced contractures were significantly reduced; contractures subsequently induced by halothane did not significantly differ from that of controls. in vitro treatment with haloperidol and trifluoperazine, however, produced significant increases in tension in muscles exposed to succinylcholine and halothane. this study provides evidence that droperidol may be considered a safe anesthetic adjunct in malignant hyperthermia-susceptible patients, and, additionally, that caution should be exercised when interpreting results from studies in which contracture testing is performed on muscle from patients treated with neuroleptic agents.
effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and of hydralazine on endothelial function in hypertensive rats the function of the endothelium is impaired in hypertension. in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr), acetylcholine-induced relaxation is decreased and serotonin-induced constriction is increased. the goal of our study was to evaluate the effect of a long-term treatment with cilazapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, or hydralazine, a vasodilator, on the endothelium-dependent responses in aorta of shr. wistar-kyoto rats were used as normotensive reference. isolated aortic rings with or without endothelium were suspended in organ chambers. the rings with intact endothelium were contracted with norepinephrine. acetylcholine-induced relaxation was markedly enhanced by cilazapril treatment. the tension achieved at maximal relaxation was 8 +/- 4% of norepinephrine contraction in the cilazapril-treated shr versus 55 +/- 5% in the untreated shr (p less than 0.001). hydralazine had no significant effect. the effect of serotonin was also markedly modified by cilazapril. in untreated shr, serotonin induced the release of a vasoconstrictor substance by the endothelium as assessed by the ratio of maximal tension induced by serotonin in rings with endothelium over maximal tension in rings without endothelium, which was greater than 1. this ratio was reversed in cilazapril-treated shr but not in hydralazine-treated shr. captopril had effects similar to cilazapril. finally, evaluation of carotid arteries showed that cilazapril also prevented morphological changes of the intima in shr (i.e., infiltration by mononuclear cells). we conclude that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors prevent the functional and morphological alterations in endothelium that are found in hypertension and speculate that this action might participate in their antihypertensive effect.
effects of ketamine on the cardiac papillary muscle of normal hamsters and those with cardiomyopathy. the effect of ketamine (10(-5) and 10(-4) m) on the intrinsic contractility of left ventricular papillary muscle from normal hamsters and those with cardiomyopathy (bio 82.62, 6-month old) was investigated. at these concentrations, ketamine induced a positive inotropic effect on normal papillary muscle, as shown by an increase in maximum unloaded shortening velocity (+19 +/- 4 and +34 +/- 5%, p less than 0.05), active isometric force (+32 +/- 8 and +57 +/- 11%, p less than 0.05), and peak power output (+40 +/- 8 and +80 +/- 16%, p less than 0.05), and induced a slight decrease in sarcoplasmic reticulum function. ketamine had no effect on the curvature of the total force-velocity curve, suggesting that it does not modify myothermal economy. contractility of papillary muscle from hamsters with cardiomyopathy was less than that of controls, as shown by the decrease in isometric active force (-41%, p less than 0.02), peak power output (-33%, p less than 0.05), and sarcoplasmic reticulum function. the positive inotropic effect of ketamine on papillary muscle from hamsters with cardiomyopathy was less marked than in controls and almost suppressed in some cases: only the maximum unloaded shortening velocity was significantly increased with 10(-5) m ketamine (+7 +/- 6%, p less than 0.05), whereas no significant changes were observed in active isometric force (+14 +/- 8 and +13 +/- 11%; nonsignificant [ns]) and peak power output (+9 +/- 5 and +13 +/- 8%; ns) with ketamine (10(-5) and 10(-4) m, respectively).
interactions between n-methyl-d-aspartate and cgs 19755 administered intramuscularly and intracerebroventricularly in pigeons. behavioral effects of n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) and the competitive nmda antagonist cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine-carboxylic acid (cgs 19755) were studied in pigeons. nmda decreased responding under a fixed-ratio schedule of food presentation and was 8000 times more potent administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) as compared to intramuscularly (i.m.). cgs 19755 was 870 times more potent in producing catalepsy when administered i.c.v.; however, the duration of catalepsy was similar by the two routes of administration. administered i.m. cgs 19755 decreased response rates only at doses that also produced catalepsy; administered i.c.v. some doses of cgs 19755 decreased responding without producing other behavioral effects. rate-decreasing effects of i.m. nmda were attenuated by i.m. cgs 19755; however, when cgs 19755 was administered i.c.v., there was little or no antagonism of nmda. rate-decreasing effects of i.c.v. nmda were not attenuated by i.m. or i.c.v. cgs 19755 up to doses that produced catalepsy or eliminated responding. the large difference in potency between i.m. and i.c.v. administration for nmda and for cgs 19755, as well as the slower onset of catalepsy when cgs 19755 was administered i.m., suggests these compounds do not readily cross the blood-brain barrier when administered parenterally. the inability of cgs 19755 to attenuate the rate-decreasing effects of nmda when cgs 19755 or nmda was administered i.c.v. suggests nmda might decrease responding by different mechanisms when administered i.m. or i.c.v. in pigeons. together these results indicate antagonism of nmda in this study, and perhaps in other studies, when both nmda and cgs 19755 were administered parenterally, might result from a peripherally mediated interaction. moreover, this agonist-antagonist interaction is not a simple, competitive antagonism.
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia. a report of sixteen cases. the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee (total replacement arthroplasty) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed. the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients, stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients, and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients. the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters. of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination (mean duration of follow-up, sixty-three months), three patients had an excellent result, seven had a good result, and one had a fair result. of the five patients who were not available for functional testing, one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months, one had died of metastases at sixteen months, and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis.
dominantly inherited apathy, central hypoventilation, and parkinson's syndrome: clinical, biochemical, and neuropathologic studies of 2 new cases. we describe 2 new patients from a family in which 10 persons in 3 successive generations had a dominant neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by apathy, central hypoventilation, and parkinsonism. neuropathologically, both patients showed severe neuronal loss and reactive gliosis in the substantia nigra. neurochemical studies showed a marked depletion of dopamine in substantia nigra, putamen, and caudate nucleus, as well as reduction in serotonin content in the substantia nigra. glutamate contents were low in frontal cortex and thalamus, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) contents were low in thalamus and substantia nigra of both patients. in addition, phosphoethanolamine contents were reduced in all brain regions of both patients, especially in the substantia nigra. one patient with severe symptoms had low levels of homovanillic acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and gaba in his csf repeatedly for 3 years before death (aged 58), while the 2nd patient died (aged 51) of an unrelated cause before developing any symptoms of the familial disorder. because brain deficiencies of multiple neurotransmitters appear to be involved, this disorder is unlikely to respond to treatment; however, neurochemical studies of csf may make presymptomatic diagnosis feasible.
risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in women with glomerulonephritis. objective--to investigate the occurrence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in women with glomerulonephritis and its possible association with immunosuppressive treatment. design--retrospective study of cytological or histological specimens from women presenting with glomerulonephritis and a group of case and age matched controls. setting--university department of pathology, norway. patients--81 women presenting with glomerulonephritis from 1981 to 1988, from whom gynaecological cytological or histological specimens were available. a group of 162 case and age matched controls. main outcome measures--age when glomerulonephritis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia was diagnosed, type and characteristics of kidney lesion, stage of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and presence of human papillomavirus, use of immunosuppressive treatment. results--cervical intraepithelial neoplasia was more common in women with glomerulonephritis than in their controls (16/81 (20%) v 7/162 (4%), p less than 0.001) and was more advanced in those with glomerulonephritis than in the controls (9/81 (11%) of the study group had grade iii cervical intraepithelial neoplasia compared with 1/162 (1%) of the controls). the increased occurrence of cervical lesions was independent of the use of immunosuppressive treatment, but the individual lesions tended to be more advanced when it was used (four of the seven cervical lesions in women with glomerulonephritis who had received immunosuppressive treatment were carcinoma in situ). of the nine cervical lesions tested, seven were virus associated. conclusion--women with glomerulonephritis should have regular cervical smears, irrespective of their use of immunosuppressive treatment.
reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion: poor correlation with blood gaba levels. previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy. we report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy. plasma gaba and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy. although the clinical syndrome and the eeg improved markedly after the ileostomy, the plasma gaba levels remained markedly elevated. preoperative and postoperative gaba levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml, respectively (nl = 100-180 pmol/ml). our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy. however, our results conflict with the hypothesis that gaba itself is the key mediator of the syndrome.
reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication in patients receiving cytotoxic therapy. report of a prospective study. one hundred chinese patients who received induction cytotoxic therapy for malignant lymphoma were prospectively studied to determine the incidence, morbidity, mortality, and predisposing factors for reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication during cytotoxic therapy. in 18 (67%) hepatitis b surface antigen-positive and 10 (14%) hepatitis b surface antigen-negative patients, hepatitis developed during cytotoxic therapy (p less than 0.0001). hepatitis could be attributed to exacerbation or reactivation of chronic hepatitis b in 13 (72%) hepatitis b surface antigen-positive patients but in only 2 (20%) hepatitis b surface antigen-negative patients (p less than 0.0001). sudden increase or reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication gave rise to icteric hepatitis, nonfatal hepatic failure, and death in 22.3%, 3.7%, and 3.7% of patients who were positive for hepatitis b surface antigen; in 2%, 2%, and 0% of those positive for hepatitis b antibodies; and in none of those who were seronegative. among the hepatitis b surface antigen-positive patients, male sex was the only factor that was associated with an increased risk of reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication. we recommend that hepatitis b surface antigen-positive patients with malignancies receiving cytotoxic therapy be closely monitored.
growth and neuroendocrine dysfunction in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome to assess whether neuroendocrine dysfunction is present in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) and growth failure, we evaluated the thyroid, adrenal, and growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor i (igf-1) axes in nine children with aids and failure to thrive. basal thyroid-stimulating hormone, free thyroxine, and triiodothyronine levels were normal in eight of the nine children and indicated primary hypothyroidism in one child; thyroxine levels were elevated in four and normal in five children. thyroxine-binding globulin levels were elevated in all children. serial measurements of thyroid-stimulating hormone, made hourly from 2 to 6 pm and from 10 pm to 2 am, revealed a flat diurnal rhythm of thyroid-stimulating hormone in six children, which may indicate early central hypothyroidism, and a normal nocturnal rise in the remaining three children. basal plasma corticotropin and aldosterone levels were normal in all children, plasma renin levels were normal in three and elevated in six children, and cortisol levels were normal or elevated in all children. corticotropin-stimulated cortisol levels exceeded 500 nmol/l (18 micrograms/dl) in all children except one, who was receiving treatment with ketoconazole. thus adrenocortical function appeared to be grossly intact. the peak growth hormone responses to provocative testing was normal (greater than 7 ng/ml) in eight children and low in one child. the plasma level of insulin-like growth factor i was normal in eight of the nine children and low in one child. we conclude that growth failure in children with aids does not usually result from a recognized endocrine cause and that adrenal function is usually normal. however, endocrine deficiency may contribute to morbidity in some children with aids.
intraocular lens complications. the authors implanted intraocular lenses (iol) in 780 eyes and considered complications of this surgery, dividing the complications into intraoperative and postoperative, the latter early and late. the most frequent intraoperative complications were: hyphema, vitreous injury, pupil deformation with an iol in the anterior chamber (ac), and hyphema and corneal lesions with an iol in the posterior chamber (pc). among the early postoperative complications of an iol in the ac the authors noticed striate keratopathy and uveal flare and postoperative transitory ocular hypertension and striate keratitis with an iol in the pc. moreover, in late postoperative complications in ac implantation they observed: cystoid macular edema, bullous keratitis, retinal detachment, late uveitis, opacification of posterior capsule, eccentric displacement of the iol, and less frequently, cystoid macular edema in pc implantations. the authors prefer iol implantation in the pc after extracapsular cataract extraction, since this surgery causes less problems in the cornea, vitreous, and retina.
central nervous system haemangioblastoma: a clinical and genetic study of 52 cases. fifty two cases of haemangioblastoma were reviewed for their clinical, genetic and prognostic features. of 34 patients with apparently isolated cerebellar lesions, postoperative outcome was good in 79%. six isolated spinal lesions presented more insidiously and morbidity was related to incomplete resection. twelve (23%) of the patients definitely had von hippel-lindau disease (vhld). the true proportion may be higher as this diagnosis was not definitely excluded in many of the remainder; only ten patients with seemingly isolated cerebellar tumours were appropriately investigated and two had evidence of vhld. four out of 26 cases (15%) with apparently completely resected, isolated, cerebellar lesions later developed recurrent tumours. brainstem and supratentorial haemangioblastomas were rare and were always associated with vhld. the cerebellar or spinal haemangioblastomas due to vhld had no distinctive clinical features compared with isolated tumours and there was considerable overlap in age of onset between the two groups of cases. all patients with an apparently isolated cns haemangioblastoma should be investigated for evidence of von hippel-lindau disease.
effects of standing on the induction of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. to evaluate the effects of standing on induction of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, electrophysiologic studies were performed in both the supine and standing positions in 22 patients with atrioventricular (av) reciprocating tachycardia and in 11 with av node reentrant tachycardia. av reciprocating tachycardia was induced in 9 of the 22 patients with av reciprocating tachycardia when they were in the supine position and in 17 when standing. the effective refractory period of the av node markedly shortened, from 275 +/- 72 to 203 +/- 30 ms (n = 16, p less than 0.005) after standing. the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway shortened slightly, from 293 +/- 75 to 278 +/- 77 ms (n = 8, p less than 0.005), after standing. av node reentrant tachycardia was induced in 3 of the 11 patients with av node reentrant tachycardia when they were in the supine position and in 6 when standing. the effective refractory periods of the slow pathway and fast pathway shortened markedly, from 293 +/- 72 to 216 +/- 40 ms (n = 6, p less than 0.025) and from 416 +/- 85 to 277 +/- 50 ms (n = 10, p less than 0.005), respectively, after standing. plasma norepinephrine levels increased during standing both in patients with av reciprocating and in those with av node reentrant tachycardia (n = 11, p less than 0.005, n = 8, p less than 0.005, respectively). in conclusion, standing, which is associated with increased sympathetic tone, changed the electrophysiologic properties of the reentrant circuits, facilitating induction of av reciprocating tachycardia and av node reentrant tachycardia.
impairment of specific host defense mechanisms in patients with chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis. we studied both in vivo and in vitro specific host defense mechanisms in patients suffering from chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis (n = 26). the cell-mediated immunity in vivo was impaired as indicated by the reduced reactivity in the delayed type hypersensitivity skin test. the concanavalin a or phytohemagglutinin-induced t-cell proliferation in vitro was markedly decreased in comparison to healthy donors. in contrast, b-cell proliferation stimulated by staphylococcus aureus cowan i was not altered. while the absolute lymphocyte counts and the percentage of t, b, and o cells were within the normal range, nine out of the 26 patients showed a significantly diminished ratio of cd4+ and cd8+ t cells. humoral immunity in the patients was less affected as assessed by the unchanged serum levels of immunoglobulins (ig). however, the t-cell dependent polyclonal ig synthesis after in vitro stimulation with pokeweed mitogen was suppressed. our results provide evidence that cell-mediated immune functions are predominantly impaired in patients with post-traumatic osteomyelitis which may contribute to the persistence of the localized bone infection.
spontaneous neuronal hyperactivity in the medial and intralaminar thalamic nuclei of patients with deafferentation pain. electrical activity was recorded from single cells in the thalamus of 10 patients with chronic pain associated with deafferentation. under local anesthesia, these patients underwent either electrode implantation or thalamotomy for treatment of their pain. in eight of the 10 patients, single units were identified as discharging spontaneously in high-frequency, often rhythmic, bursts. the discharges were of two types: short bursts comprised of two to six spikes with a burst frequency of one to four per second; and long trains of 30 to 80 spikes of similar frequency. reconstruction of electrode trajectories indicated that recordings were made from the region corresponding to the lateral aspect of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, the central lateral nucleus, a small part of the central median nucleus, and the parafascicular nucleus. in the eight patients in whom spontaneous neuronal burst activity was exhibited, it was impossible to study activity evoked by natural cutaneous stimulation due to the continuous spontaneous neuronal discharges. both animal and human studies have suggested that pain related to deafferentation is accompanied by spontaneous hyperactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in the ventral posterior thalamic nuclei. the authors present evidence of spontaneous neuronal hyperactivity in the intralaminar thalamic nuclei of patients with pain related to deafferentation. the findings suggest that spontaneous neuronal discharge in patients with pain related to deafferentation is more widespread in the central nervous system than has been previously appreciated. the results have important implications for the surgical treatment of chronic pain.
serum ca 125 levels during the menstrual cycle. serum concentrations of ca 125 were measured in different phases of the menstrual cycle in 16 women with ovulatory and 12 women with anovulatory cycles. ca 125 levels were significantly elevated during menstruation in both groups. in women with anovulatory cycles, but not in those with ovulatory cycles, ca 125 levels were already increased in the premenstrual phase. a negative correlation was found between serum ca 125 and progesterone concentrations in the premenstrual phase of the cycle. we suggest that premenstrual elevation of serum ca 125 in women with anovulatory cycles is related to premature endometrial vascular changes which are the result of the low serum progesterone concentration leading to insufficient endometrial control. thus the effect of progesterone seems to be indirect rather than a direct effect on ca 125 synthesis. when the ca 125 assay is used for diagnosis of cancer, sampling should not be done immediately before or during menstruation because the physiological elevation of the ca 125 levels may give false positive results.
the cluster diathesis. we present further evidence for a sympathetic defect of vasomotor control of the anterior cerebral artery (aca) on the side of the headache during cluster periods. in 119 cluster headache patients, utilizing transcranial doppler, we measured co2 reactivity of the major intracranial vessels, in and out of cluster. reactivity was significantly lower during the cluster period, but only in the aca on the side of the headache. nineteen patients followed sequentially for a full cycle (ie/both in and out of a cluster period) showed the same changes. in 3 out of 6 patients in an active cluster period, we describe a lesion on gallium single-photon emission computerized tomography (spect) in the region of the cavernous sinus which fades as the patient moves out of cluster. it is felt that this lesion may represent the cavernous sinus plexus lesion postulated as the central lesion in cluster. changes in the sympathetic outflow at this point could explain the changes we have described in aca co2 reactivity during cluster.
effect of cyclosporine on the development of cerebral vasospasm in a primate model. the authors studied the effect of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporine (cs) on the development of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) using a primate model of vasospasm. eighteen monkeys were randomly divided into three groups: a sham-operated control group, an sah group, and a cs-treated group. to induce sah, the right side of the circle of willis was dissected free of the arachnoid and an autologous blood clot was placed around the arteries. in the cs group, cs (5 mg/kg/day) was administered intramuscularly for 7 days after the induction of sah. the vessel caliber was evaluated on angiograms before the induction of sah (day 0) and 7 days after sah (day 7). histological changes and the deposition of igg in the arterial wall were studied in the three groups. the combined values of the average reduction of the right cerebral arteries at day 7 was significant (p less than 0.05) in the sah group (-43.3%) and in the cs group (-31.3%) as compared with the sham group (-0.7%); however, there was no significant difference between the values in the sah and the cs groups. in the cs group, the average reduction in vessel caliber of the right middle and anterior cerebral arteries was significantly (p less than 0.05) less than in the sah group; this did not prove true for the internal carotid artery, however. although the deposition of igg in the media and an inflammatory reaction were observed in the spastic arterial wall in both the sah and cs groups, there was no definitive difference in these immune/inflammatory reactions between the two groups. it is suggested that cs may be helpful in reducing the severity of vasospasm, but may not have a major therapeutic effect, considering its systemic toxicity.
clinical and electrophysiologic determinants, treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurring late after myocardial infarction to assess the clinical and electrophysiologic determinants, treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after myocardial infarction, a total of 108 patients (mean age 61 +/- 10 years) were studied. thirty-two patients (group i) had sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias 8 to 60 days (mean 13 +/- 9) after acute myocardial infarction. the remaining 76 patients (group ii), who served as a control group, had no sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias less than or equal to 60 days after infarction. the most significant independent determinants of sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after infarction were the presence of late potentials (chi square = 16.07, p = 0.0001), defined as an abnormal signal-averaged qrs complex in association with an abnormal root-mean-square voltage in the terminal 40 ms of the qrs complex, and an abnormal ejection fraction of less than 40% (chi square = 10.09, p = 0.001). sustained ventricular tachycardia was induced in 27 (96%) of 28 group i patients. among the 32 patients in group i, antitachycardia therapy included antiarrhythmic drug therapy as the sole preventive measure in 14 (44%); map-guided surgery or coronary artery bypass surgery, or both, in 14 (44%) and the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator in 4 (12%). the arrhythmias were rendered noninducible in 83% of patients after map-guided surgery and in 41% after drug therapy. during a follow-up period of 20 +/- 14 months, five group i patients (15%) had an arrhythmic event and four (9.3%) had a cardiac-related death. all five patients who had an arrhythmic event were receiving antiarrhythmic drug therapy.
yield from total skin examination and effectiveness of skin cancer awareness program. findings in 874 new dermatology patients. the authors reviewed 874 dermatology charts to assess the acceptance rate of total skin examination (tse), incidental skin findings, and patient compliance regarding treatment recommendations. of the 874 new dermatology patients studied, 707 (80.9%) agreed to tse. important incidental findings were found in 151 (21.4%). these included: (1) biopsy specimen-confirmed malignant tumors (malignant melanoma, lentigo maligna, and basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma) in 24 of the 707 patients (3.4%), (2) biopsy specimen-confirmed premalignant tumors (actinic keratosis with dysplasia, bowenoid actinic keratosis, bowenoid papulosis, and lentigo with dysplasia, in five (0.7%), (3) clinically diagnosed premalignant actinic keratosis in 64 (9.1%), (4) biopsy specimen-confirmed dysplastic nevi in 17 (2.4%), and (5) congenital nevi in 41 (5.8%). only 4.2% of the patients returned for a yearly tse, and only 6.0% were found to follow all recommendations for monthly self examination, yearly professional examination, and sun protection. it is concluded that tse for all new patients, and on a yearly basis for all return patients, is valuable in the detection of many skin conditions and allows skin cancer screening to be done, since patients for the most part do not follow recommendations for at-home screening.
chronic pulmonary thromboembolism in dogs treated with tranexamic acid. background. many questions remain regarding the pathogenesis, natural history, diagnosis, and treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension in patients. to answer such questions, we developed an animal model of this disorder. the brisk thrombolytic response of canines to acute embolism has, previously, prevented the establishment of such a model. methods and results. the fibrinolytic inhibitor tranexamic acid was given orally to canines before, and for intervals after, pulmonary emboli were released from venous thrombi formed in vivo in femoral veins or the inferior vena cava. preliminary studies disclosed that embolic residuals from femoral vein thrombi were not sufficient to cause significant, persistent pulmonary hypertension. with repetitive, larger thrombi embolized from the inferior vena cava, however, persistent pulmonary hypertension was achieved in most animals. conclusions. resolution of emboli in the canine can be inhibited by tranexamic acid. as in humans, a spectrum of embolic residuals is encountered, and the perfusion lung scan consistently underestimates the extent of embolic residuals. studies of this animal model continue.
l-glutamine stimulates jejunal sodium and chloride absorption in pig rotavirus enteritis. rotavirus enteritis is the leading cause of diarrhea in infants worldwide. a research priority of the world health organization is to develop oral rehydration solutions containing amino acids or other additives that will stimulate intestinal absorption more efficiently than the current glucose-based oral rehydration solutions. glutamine is the principal metabolic fuel of the small bowel and a putative stimulator of mucosal repair. this report describes the transport response to mucosal l-glutamine following intestinal injury caused by porcine rotavirus. peak symptoms and mucosal damage were observed 2-7 days after oral rotavirus inoculation. in vitro transport studies of the maximally injured region, the midjejunum (80% reduction in lactase), surprisingly, showed transport responses to l-glutamine (30 mmol/l) and l-alanine (30 mmol/l) that were similar qualitatively and quantitatively to those observed in control tissue. subsequent application of mucosal d-glucose (30 mmol/l) caused additional stimulation of electrogenic na+ transport, but the response to glucose was blunted (p less than 0.05) in the infected tissues. glutamine and alanine enhanced na+ absorption to a similar degree (2-2.5 mueq.cm-2.h-1), but glutamine stimulated equal amounts of electrogenic and electroneutral nacl absorption, whereas alanine had no significant effect on net cl- flux. glutamine is a potentially useful substrate for investigation in oral rehydration solutions for infant diarrhea.
in vivo assessment of shock-wave pressures. implication for biliary lithotripsy. during extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, the pressure profile, which is generated by the lithotriptor, determines the risk of tissue damage. in the present study, the pressure distribution of a lithotriptor (lithostar; siemens a.g., erlangen, federal republic of germany) was investigated in 10 pigs, five of which had gallstones surgically implanted into the gallbladder. the in vivo values were compared with in vitro data. measurements were carried out along the shock-wave transmission path at the focus within the gallbladder, the adjacent liver, the diaphragmatic surface of the right lung, and the shock-wave exit site from the skin. interposition of ribs did not cause a significant decrease in focal positive pressure. however, a gallstone positioned in the focus caused a 30%-65% reduction in pressure, recorded immediately behind the stone. pressures obtained in vivo were always 15%-25% lower than those measured in vitro. the spatial distributions of the positive pressure in vivo and in vitro were almost identical. there was a high correlation between the pressures in vitro and in vivo (r = 0.88; p less than or equal to 0.01). this justifies assessment of shock-wave energies generated during biliary lithotripsy by extrapolation of in vitro data. it is concluded that it is possible to characterize different lithotriptors by in vitro pressure profile measurements.
spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula: the "abdominal pain, hematuria, silent left kidney" syndrome. spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula (alrvf) is a rare occurrence; with this case, only 16 have been reported to date. common features in patients with alrvf include abdominal pain (81%), hematuria (100%), impaired renal function (85%), and nonvisualization of the left kidney (100%). less common but also present in the majority of cases are a left sided bruit (73%), pulsatile abdominal mass (63%), and proteinuria (50%). also important, 94% have a retroaortic left renal vein, unlike the six cases of traumatic alrvf that have been reported. this magnifies the diagnostic value of contrast abdominal computed tomographic scanning, which demonstrates not only the anomalous location of the left renal vein but also the abdominal aortic aneurysm and poor enhancement of the left kidney. these findings rule out the possibility of the "nutcracker syndrome" (left renal vein compression between aorta and superior mesenteric artery). although confirming the presence of a fistula by early caval opacification, aortography does not always distinguish alrvf from the more common aortocaval fistula. this can be accomplished by duplex scanning with deep probes and even preferably color coding of velocity signals. with such precise preoperative localization, surgical repair is relatively easy and safe.
stance duration under sensory conflict conditions in patients with hemiplegia. standing balance was evaluated in ten subjects with hemiplegia using a sensory organization balance test (sot). the sot is a timed balance test which evaluates somatosensory, visual, and vestibular function for maintenance of upright posture. the duration of bilateral stance was assessed using combinations of three visual and two support surface conditions. stance time was measured with eyes open, eyes closed, and with each patient wearing a visual dome to produce inaccurate visual information. the support surface conditions involved stance on a hard flat floor followed by attempted stance on a compliant foam surface. visual deprivation or visual conflict conditions did not cause a loss of balance when stance was performed on a stable surface. however, a lower stance duration was found when patients stood on a compliant surface (p less than .05). visual compensation was evident during the compliant-surface condition because stance duration showed the greatest reductions with eyes closed and with the visual dome. these findings suggest that the ability to integrate somatosensory information from the lower extremities for balance is compromised after cerebrovascular disease. the implications for diagnosing the specific cause of balance dysfunction and for developing sensory-specific therapeutic interventions are discussed.
benefit of ketotifen in patients with eosinophilic gastroenteritis. purpose: eosinophilic gastroenteritis (eg) is a rare condition of unknown etiology characterized by vomiting, diarrhea, protein-losing enteropathy, and eosinophilic infiltration of the gastrointestinal mucosa. the potential association of eg with allergy and related mast-cell release of mediators led us to evaluate the ability of an antihistamine drug to modify the course of the disease. patients and methods: six patients with protracted gastrointestinal symptoms were diagnosed with eg because of histologic evidence of predominantly eosinophilic infiltrates in the gastrointestinal mucosa. each patient was treated in an open trial for 12 months with ketotifen (zaditen), an antihistamine of the h1 class that is known to stabilize mast cells. results: all six patients improved clinically; four also gained weight. total serum ige levels decreased after 4 to 6 months of therapy. clearing of eosinophilic infiltrates was documented in the four patients who underwent follow-up mucosal biopsies. conclusion: we conclude that ketotifen treatment represents a safe and effective alternative to traditional systemic corticosteroid therapy for treatment of eg.
cardiovascular risk factor levels in ethnic hawaiians. we report a cardiovascular risk factor survey of "native" hawaiians 20-59 years old (70 percent, or 257), living on the hawaiian homestead lands on the island of molokai, hawaii. more than 60 percent of both sexes were overweight. among males, 42 percent were smokers. the percent of the population with systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm hg or a diastolic pressure greater than 90 mm hg or taking hypertensive medications was 14 percent of those ages 20-39 and 36 percent of those ages 40-59. the percent with serum cholesterol greater than or equal to 6.2 mmol/l ranged from 8 percent of those 20-29 years old to 46 percent in those 50-59 years old. two percent of those ages 20-29 had a history of diabetes, or 2 + or greater glycosuria by dipstick, as did 23 percent of those ages 50-59. the majority of the known diabetics exhibited glycosuria and elevated glycohemoglobin levels, indicating poor control. hypertension, although usually known to the participant, was frequently uncontrolled. from these data, it appears that among this group of hawaiians major risk factors for cardiovascular disease were frequent, while at the same time the levels of awareness and/or control for most of these factors were low.
renal disease in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. diabetic nephropathy now accounts for approximately one-third of all patients who develop end-stage renal disease. the estimated cost to supply renal replacement therapy for this population now exceeds $750 million. the relatively recent realization that half of these individuals suffer from noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has sparked increased interest in attempts to understand the pathologic processes involved and how they may be similar or different from those alterations seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. basic and clinical investigation continues in an attempt to solve the puzzle of pathogenesis, as well as answer questions about the clinical usefulness of microalbuminuria and the appropriate management of hypertension in this population.
the febrile alcoholic in the emergency department. the authors retrospectively reviewed the charts of 31 alcoholic patients admitted with fever without a defined source. in our population 58% of patients were subsequently found to have an infectious cause for their fever. pneumonia was the most common infection, but occult urinary tract infections were seen surprisingly often. noninfectious but serious disorders, such as delirium tremens, prolonged postictal state, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, were also common. infectious and noninfectious causes commonly coexisted. the most common noninfectious cause was alcohol withdrawal, with or without seizures. the authors believe that indigent, malnourished, chronic alcoholics with fever for which a source cannot be readily identified, should usually be admitted to the hospital for observation and to await culture results.
determination of ventricular fluid outflow resistance in patients with ventriculomegaly. resorption of the ventricular fluid was studied by measuring ventricular fluid outflow resistance during steady state 1.5 and 5.0 ml/min infusions in 26 patients with substantial enlargement of the supratentorial ventricular system. this test may avoid unnecessary use of shunts, but a shunt could be introduced during the same procedure.
the effects of smoking on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram in normal subjects. tobacco smoking increases the risk of sudden cardiac death, possibly by altering the substrate for propagation or sustainment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. to test this hypothesis, 15 long-term smokers without known coronary artery disease abstained from tobacco smoking for 12 h, after which they underwent saecg before, 15 min after and 30 min after smoking two cigarettes. other than minor lengthening of filtered qrs duration, no significant change in time-domain saecg parameters was noted. we conclude that late potentials are not produced by cigarette smoking and that ventricular arrhythmia substrate as measured by saecg variables is not worsened in long-term smokers without evidence of coronary artery disease.
treatment of renal cell carcinoma by extracorporeal partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic vascular anastomosis. a patient with large left lower pole renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney is presented. the patient was treated by partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic arterial and venous anastomoses. the potential for reducing operative morbidity compared with autotransplantation to the iliac fossa is discussed.
platelet fatty acids and function in two distinct regions of belgium: relationship to age and dietary habits. we compared the dietary habits, fatty acid composition of plasma and platelet phospholipids, and platelet function in two groups of healthy belgian male subjects, known to differ in their mortality rate from coronary heart disease (chd). in the walloon subjects, there was a larger intake of saturated and a lower intake of (n-6) polyunsaturated fats, confirmed by the fatty acid composition of plasma and platelet phospholipids. while plasma hdl and total cholesterol were similar in the present samples of the two communities, platelet aggregation to epinephrine was significantly higher in the walloon subjects. when the two populations were divided into younger (28-54 years) and older (55-73 years) age groups, the older walloon subjects exhibited platelet hyper-aggregability to most of the agonists, compared to the other three groups. in addition to dietary fats, alcohol and smoking habits, age was an important determinant of platelet phospholipid fatty acids and platelet reactivity. the present results reinforce those of previous studies, indicating that platelet behaviour is significantly affected by the main risk factors for chd.
cystic tumors of the pancreas. new clinical, radiologic, and pathologic observations in 67 patients. within a 12-year period we treated 67 patients (49 women, 18 men; mean age, 61 years) with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas, including 18 serous cystic adenomas, 15 benign mucinous cystic neoplasms, 27 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas, 3 papillary cystic tumors, 2 cystic islet cell tumors, and 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia. mean tumor size was 6 cm (2 to 16 cm). in 39% the patients had no symptoms, and in 37% the lesions had been misdiagnosed as a pseudocyst. computed tomography was useful for detection, for distinguishing the microcystic subgroup of serous cystadenoma, and for showing rim calcification (all 7 cases were malignant) but was not reliable for distinguishing neoplasm from pseudocyst, serous from mucinous tumors, or benign from malignant. arteriography showed hypervascularity in 4 of 10 serous adenomas, 3 of 11 mucinous carcinomas, and 1 of 1 papillary cystic tumors. endoscopic pancreatography showed no communication with the cyst cavity in 37 of 37 cases of cystic neoplasms but opacified the ectatic ducts in 2 of 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia. stenosis or obstruction of the pancreatic duct indicated cancer. the tumor was resected by distal pancreatectomy in 25 patients, by proximal resection in 29, and by total pancreatectomy in one, with no operative deaths. forty-four per cent of the tumors were malignant. in 10 cases the tumor was unresectable because of local extension or distant metastases, and those patients died at a mean of 4 months. seventy-five per cent of those resected for cure are alive without evident recurrence. because the epithelial lining of the tumor was partially (5% to 98%) absent in 40% to 72% of cases of the major tumor types, and the mucinous component comprised only about 65% of mucinous cystadenoma lining, misdiagnoses on frozen and even permanent sections were made. mitoses and histologic solid growth correlated with malignancy. neuroendocrine elements were seen in 87% of benign and 47% of malignant mucinous tumors. it is recommended that the terms macrocystic and microcystic be abandoned in favor of the histologic designations serous and mucinous. incomplete examination of the cyst wall can be misleading, however. it is suggested that mucinous ductal ectasia be recognized separately from cystic tumors and that all of these lesions be resected, with the possible exception of asymptomatic confirmed serous cystadenomas.
hemodynamic effects of h2-receptor antagonists. histamine h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage. these agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions; however, hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted. clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients. ranitidine, also studied in this setting, does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes. the newer h2ras, famotidine and nizatidine, have not been evaluated in critically ill patients.
platelet monoamine oxidase b activity in parkinsonian patients. monoamine oxidase b (mao b) plays a pivotal role in n-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (mptp) induced parkinsonism. an increased mao b activity in platelets of patients with idiopathic parkinson's disease (pd) is reported in this study. the possibility that high mao b activity may represent a trait of vulnerability for pd by enhancing the neurotoxic effects of environmental compounds is discussed.
atlanto-axial subluxation in down's syndrome. a case of atlanto-axial subluxation in a patient with down's syndrome is described. the gradual deterioration in the patient's locomotor ability caused a delay in diagnosis. patterns of presentation of this condition are discussed.
magnetoencephalographic localization of interictal spike sources. case report. the reliability of localization of interictal spike sources using magnetoencephalography (meg) was examined by repeated measurements in a patient with temporal lobe epilepsy. during two preoperative recording sessions, the estimated sources, projected onto magnetic resonance images of the patient's brain, were found to lie less than 1 cm apart within the area subsequently resected. the meg localization was in close agreement with intraoperative cortical recordings.
one-stage repair of colovaginal fistula complicating acute diverticulitis. fourteen patients with colovaginal fistula secondary to sigmoid diverticulitis were seen between 1964 and 1988. thirteen had undergone prior hysterectomy. three different operative approaches were used. three patients were treated with colostomy alone; one died and the fistula persisted in one. five patients underwent staged procedures. one patient died of complications after the second stage of a planned three-stage procedure. four patients underwent a two-stage procedure (fistula takedown, colectomy with colostomy and colostomy closure), all with good results. six patients were treated with one-stage fistula takedown, colectomy and primary anastomosis, without major complication. we advocate this as the procedure of choice and emphasize the following principles of epidemiology and management: 1) colovaginal fistula complicates diverticulitis in elderly women usually following hysterectomy; this association may be a factor in etiology; 2) vaginography is useful in diagnosis; and 3) planned one-stage repair is the best surgical approach.
stimulation of glucagon secretion by gastric inhibitory polypeptide in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and hyperglucagonemia. porcine gastric inhibitory polypeptide (gip) was infused iv (120 micrograms in 60 min) in seven patients with biopsy-proven hepatic cirrhosis who had surgical porta-caval anastomoses and hyperglucagonemia in the postabsorptive state. the infusions resulted in elevation of blood levels of immunoreactive gip into the upper range of those observed after ingestion of large mixed meals. this was accompanied by significant increments in immunoreactive glucagon (irg) in the plasma. similar infusions in two cirrhotic patients with surgical porta-caval anastomoses who had normal plasma irg levels in the postabsorptive state had no effect on the plasma irg level. ingestion of triglyceride (60 g) in hyperglucagonemic cirrhotic patients with porta-caval anastomoses also resulted in elevation of plasma immunoreactive gip, and this was again associated with significant elevation of the plasma irg level. chromatography studies showed that the increments in plasma irg after the administration of gip or triglyceride were largely accounted for by increases in pancreatic-type glucagon. there were no significant effects of administration of gip or triglyceride on the blood levels of glucose or immunoreactive insulin. it is concluded that porcine gip is glucagonotropic in patients with cirrhosis of the liver who show elevated levels of irg in the plasma in the postabsorptive state. this effect is not due to diversion of portal blood to the systemic circulation and may be attributable to hypersensitivity of the alpha-cells to stimulation by gip.
a signet-ring cell carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. we describe a variant of carcinoma of the ampulla of vater, which, to our knowledge, has not been previously described. classic signet-ring cells represented the predominant cell type, and were admixed with more poorly differentiated tumor cells that were chromogranin positive. these findings raise the possibility of an amphicrine tumor of the ampulla.
documentation of the effective length of action of antihypertensive treatment. the technique of automated ambulatory blood pressure (bp) monitoring offers an innovative means for measuring bp throughout the 24-hour period. recently available compact monitoring instruments have been shown to be accurate and to provide reproducible measurements of the circadian bp pattern. the monitoring procedure is advantageous in that it minimizes or avoids placebo effects during therapeutic trials. moreover, its power makes it possible to draw statistically valid conclusions regarding efficacy in fewer patients than would be required if conventional methods were used. this procedure also enhances the diagnosis of hypertension by identifying patients with "office" or "white coat" hypertension, and thereby facilitates assessment of treatment effects in those patients who are truly hypertensive. automated monitoring measures bp at critical times of the day, including the preawakening and early morning hours, and it enables peak and trough antihypertensive drug effects to be carefully quantified. since patient compliance appears to be enhanced with once- or twice-daily dosing, antihypertensive agents with long durations of action (24 hours) are of considerable interest. this report reviews some recent studies in which the monitoring technique has been used to measure the efficacy and duration of action of differing antihypertensive drugs.
methamphetamine. stimulant of the 1990s? during the past several years, the use of a smokable form of methamphetamine hydrochloride called "ice" has increased rapidly. the heaviest use has occurred on the west coast and in hawaii. many regional emergency departments treat more methamphetamine users than cocaine-intoxicated patients. the ease of synthesis from inexpensive and readily available chemicals makes possible the rampant abuse of a dangerous drug that can produce a euphoria similar to that induced by cocaine. clinicians should be familiar with the medical effects and treatment of acute methamphetamine toxicity.
could wallerian degeneration contribute to "leuko-araiosis" in subjects free of any vascular disorder? to determine the possible role of wallerian degeneration secondary to the grey matter neuronal loss in the pathogenesis of "leuko-araiosis", computerised tomography (ct) of the brain was studied in 98 normotensive and non diabetic subjects free of cardiac diseases: 32 with alzheimer's disease, 36 with parkinson's disease, eight with progressive supranuclear palsy, and 22 controls. in alzheimer's disease, leuko-araiosis scores were greater than in control subjects. leuko-araiosis was more prominent in anterior periventricular areas in parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy, and in posterior periventricular areas in alzheimer's disease. in two patients with alzheimer's disease and leuko-araiosis, necropsy revealed diffuse white matter pallor, mild fibrillary astrocytosis, and in one patient limited hyaline thickening of small white matter vessels, without any infarction or hypertensive change. changes were more severe in white matter close to cortical areas with a great density of neurofibrillary tangles. leuko-araiosis was more severe or more widespread in alzheimer's disease than in parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and normal ageing. differences in the location of leuko-araiosis between the four groups might be due to differences in the location of the grey matter disorder and wallerian degeneration rather than amyloid in alzheimer's disease, parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and normal ageing. wallerian degeneration might be another cause of leuko-araiosis in neuro-degenerative disorders beside previously reported extra-cerebral predisposing factors and amyloid angiopathy.
pancreaticopleural fistula. report of 7 patients and review of the literature. pancreaticopleural fistula is an uncommon clinical condition. its presentation is often confusing because of the paucity of clues suggestive of pancreatic disease and the preponderance of pulmonary symptoms and signs. most patients are alcoholics but only one-half will have a clinical history of previous pancreatitis. pleural effusions are large, recurrent, and highly exudative in nature. many patients go through extensive pulmonary evaluation before the pancreas is identified as the site of primary pathology. an elevated serum amylase may be the first clue to the diagnosis. however, the key to the diagnosis is a dramatically elevated pleural fluid amylase. effusions in association with acute pancreatitis, esophageal perforation, and thoracic malignancy are important to consider in the differential diagnosis of an elevated pleural fluid amylase but are usually easy to exclude. computed tomography is excellent in defining pancreatic abnormalities and should be the first abdominal imaging study in suspected cases. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) is used as a diagnostic tool only in confusing cases. although no systematic study evaluates medical versus surgical therapy, we recommend an initial 2 to 4-week trial of medical therapy, including allowance of no oral intake, total parenteral nutrition, chest tube thoracostomy, and possibly a regimen of somatostatin or its analogs. the major complication in these patients is superinfection, which results in significant morbidity and mortality. failure of medical therapy should be considered failure of pleural effusion(s) to clear, recurrence after reinstatement of oral intake, or superinfection. for those patients who fail to benefit from medical therapy, surgery is indicated.
supraclavicular lymph node metastases in carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction: assessment with ct, us, and us-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy. the preoperative assessment of supraclavicular lymph node metastases was prospectively studied in 100 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. findings at computed tomography (ct), ultrasound (us), and palpation were compared, and us-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of nodes with a small axis of 5 mm or greater was performed. supraclavicular metastases were detected on ct scans in 11 of 13 patients (85%) and on us scans in 14 of 16 patients (88%) but were palpable in only three of the 16 patients (19%). the predictive value of a supraclavicular node indicating metastases was .74 at us and .85 at ct. metastases were diagnosed in 10 of 46 patients with squamous cell carcinoma (22%) and five of 50 patients (10%) with adenocarcinoma. nodes with metastases had a round configuration, with a statistically significant greater short-axis to long-axis ratio than that of benign nodes (0.89 vs 0.54; p = .05). in four of 16 patients (25%) with supraclavicular metastases proved with cytologic examination, neither ct nor us of the mediastinum and abdomen showed enlarged nodes.
vascular complications after orthotopic liver transplantation. over a 57-month period, we performed 430 orthotopic liver transplants in 372 patients. a total of 38 vascular complications were identified including hepatic artery thrombosis (n = 24), portal vein thrombosis (n = 6), combined hepatic artery thrombosis/portal vein thrombosis (n = 3), and hepatic artery rupture (n = 5). a number of potential risk factors for the development of vascular thrombosis were evaluated with only children, weight less than 10 kg, and cold ischemia time found to be significant. the clinical presentation included fulminant hepatic failure, allograft dysfunction, biliary sepsis, and screening ultrasound. duplex ultrasonography was diagnostic in nearly all cases. therapeutic modalities included revascularization, revascularization followed by retransplantation, retransplantation alone, and observation. five cases of hepatic artery rupture occurred in four patients. infectious arteritis was present in four patients. the 6-month actuarial survival in patients with vascular complications was 70%. early diagnosis is critical for graft salvage, with surgical intervention the mainstay of therapy.
patient-related variables and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty--a report from the m-heart group. as part of a randomized prospective study designed to investigate the restenosis process after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), the relation between patient-related variables and restenosis rate was examined. a total of 722 patients had successful ptca. angiographic follow-up was scheduled for 6 +/- 2 months after the procedure and achieved in 510 patients (71%), yielding 598 lesions for analysis. the overall restenosis rate was 40%. the rate was higher in patients undergoing early restudy for a clinical event than in those undergoing routinely scheduled follow-up restudy (71 vs 22%, p less than 0.0001). age, sex, cigarette smoking history, diabetes mellitus and history of previous myocardial infarction were not associated with restenosis rate. angina duration and severity before ptca were also unrelated to restenosis rate. in summary, these variables, many of which have been previously implicated in restenosis, were not found to be predictors of restenosis. the decision to perform ptca in individual patients should not be negatively influenced by the presence of these factors.
cerebral venography with mr. the authors describe a two-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance (mr) angiography technique to create projection venograms of the head. the technique was applied to 27 healthy volunteers and 39 patients. the superior sagittal and straight sinuses, the internal cerebral veins, and the galen vein were visualized in all the volunteers. other veins were seen in a high percentage of subjects. systematic comparison of digital subtraction angiography (dsa) after intraarterial contrast medium injection and mr venography in patients showed good correlation between the two techniques. mr venography proved helpful in identifying thrombosis or patency of cerebral veins and sinuses and showed collateral venous drainage and venous drainage from arteriovenous malformations. there was good correlation between conventional contrast angiography and mr venography. in conclusion, mr venography is considered reliable for showing the cerebral venous system and provides information additional to that of conventional spin-echo imaging.
vaginosonographic measurement of endometrial thickness in the evaluation of amenorrhea. the progestin-induced withdrawal bleeding test has often been used in patients with amenorrhea to assess endogenous estrogen (e) production. the endometrial thickness measured by vaginal ultrasonography with a 5 mhz transducer is also dependent on e stimulation of the endometrium. in this study, 70 consecutive patients were evaluated with both the progestin-induced withdrawal bleeding test and a measurement of the endometrial thickness by vaginosonography. an endometrial thickness of 1.5 mm or less was selected to predict absence of bleeding after a progesterone (p) challenge test. this resulted in a sensitivity of 94% with a 95% confidence interval (ci) of 0.70 to 1.00 and a specificity of 93% with a 95% ci of 0.82 and 0.98. the positive and negative predictive values were 79% and 98%, respectively. this study shows that the endometrial thickness measured by vaginosonography can predict the results of the p challenge test in patients with amenorrhea.
cholinergic stimulation of the pons depresses respiration in decerebrate cats. the injection of carbachol into the pontine tegmentum of decerebrate cats evokes a postural motor atonia that has many of the characteristics of the atonia of natural rapid-eye-movement (rem) sleep (morales et al. j. neurophysiol. 57: 1118-1129, 1987). we have used the carbachol-injected decerebrate cat to study the changes in respiratory neuronal activity that accompany the atonia. the activities of representative respiratory motor nerves--phrenic, intercostal, and hypoglossal--and that of a motor branch of c4 were recorded in decerebrate, vagotomized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated cats. after the microinjection of carbachol, there was a profound suppression of activity in all the nerves and a decrease in respiratory rate. this was a consistent stereotyped response in which the magnitude of the suppression of respiratory-related activity was phrenic (to approximately 65% of control) less than inspiratory intercostal (approximately 50%) less than hypoglossal (approximately 10%) less than expiratory intercostal (approximately 5%). the decrease in respiratory rate (to approximately 70% of control) was caused by a prolongation of both inspiratory and expiratory durations. complete reversal of the carbachol effect was elicited by the microinjection of atropine into the same site as the carbachol injection. this allowed us to produce a second episode of atonia by the injection of carbachol into the contralateral pons. thus we have demonstrated the existence of neural pathways originating in the cholinoceptive cells of the pons that have the potential to powerfully and differentially depress various respiratory motoneuronal pools and to reduce the respiratory rate. these pathways are likely to be activated along with the atonia of rem sleep.
the effect of ursodiol on the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy of gallstones. the dornier national biliary lithotripsy study background. in the treatment of gallstones with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, the bile acid ursodiol is administered to dissolve the gallstone fragments. we designed our study to determine the value of administering this agent. methods. at 10 centers, 600 symptomatic patients with three or fewer radiolucent gallstones 5 to 30 mm in diameter, as visualized by oral cholecystography, were randomly assigned to receive ursodiol or placebo for six months, starting one week before lithotripsy. results. the stones were fragmented in 97 percent of all patients, and the fragments were less than or equal to 5 mm in diameter in 46.8 percent. on the basis of an intention-to-treat analysis of all 600 patients, 21 percent receiving ursodiol and 9 percent receiving placebo (p less than 0.0001) had gallbladders that were free of stones after six months. among those with completely radiolucent solitary stones less than 20 mm in diameter, 35 percent of the patients receiving ursodiol and 18 percent of those receiving placebo (p less than 0.001) were free of stones after six months. biliary pain, usually mild, occurred in 73 percent of all patients but in only 13 percent of those who were free of stones after three and six months (p less than 0.01). there were few adverse events. only diarrhea occurred with a significantly different frequency in the two groups: 32.6 percent were affected in the ursodiol group, as compared with 24.7 percent in the placebo group (p less than 0.04). severe biliary pain occurred in 1.5 percent of all patients, acute cholecystitis in 1.0 percent, and acute pancreatitis in 1.5 percent; endoscopic sphincterotomy was performed in 0.5 percent, and cholecystectomy in 2.5 percent. conclusions. extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy with ursodiol was more effective than lithotripsy alone for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones, and equally safe. treatment was more effective for solitary than multiple stones, radiolucent than slightly calcified stones, and smaller than larger stones.
a new monoclonal antibody (ch-f42) recognizes a cd7- subset of normal t lymphocytes and circulating malignant cells in adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia and sezary syndrome. we describe a new rat immunoglobulin m monoclonal antibody (ch-f42) that recognizes a subset (1.5% to 8%) of normal peripheral blood t lymphocytes. the phenotype of these cells was determined, using dual-color immunofluorescence, to be cd2+, cd3+, cd4+, cd5+, cd7-, cd8-. they do not express t-cell activation markers, and are positive for uchl1 (cd45ro), but negative for 2h4 (cd45ra). the antigen was expressed on circulating malignant cells in sezary syndrome (four of four cases) and adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia (atll) (four of six cases) and negative in a variety of other hematologic malignancies tested. these included chronic and acute lymphoid leukemias of b and t lineage, together with chronic and acute myeloid leukemias. however, normal ch-f42+ cells do not display any of the ultrastructural features associated with sezary or atll cells. the marked similarities between these conditions together with the shared expression of an otherwise very restricted surface antigen (ch-f42) provide strong evidence for the existence of a common normal counterpart. preliminary characterization studies of the antigen, which is also expressed by k562 and jurkat cells, suggest the ch-f42 antigen is an o-linked, sialated glycan on a glycoprotein.
lipid screening: is it enough to measure total cholesterol concentration? objectives--to determine whether measurement of total cholesterol concentration is sufficient to identify most patients at lipoprotein mediated risk of coronary heart disease without measurement of triglyceride and high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol concentrations. design--cross sectional screening programme. setting--six general practices in oxfordshire. patients--1901 men and 2068 women aged 25-59. main outcome measure--cardiovascular risk as assessed by fasting venous plasma concentrations of total cholesterol, triglyceride, and hdl cholesterol. results--2931 patients (74% of those screened) had a total cholesterol concentration of less than 6.5 mmol/l. if the triglyceride concentration had not been measured in these patients isolated hypertriglyceridaemia (greater than or equal to 2.3 mmol/l) would have remained undetected in 185. among these 185 patients, however, 123 were overweight or obese and only 18 (0.6% of those screened) had an increased risk associated with both a raised triglyceride concentration (greater than or equal to 2.3 mmol/l) and a low hdl cholesterol concentration (less than 0.9 mmol/l). conversely, in the 790 patients with predominant hypercholesterolaemia (cholesterol concentration greater than or equal to 6.5 mmol/l and triglyceride concentration less than 2.3 mmol/l) measurement of hdl cholesterol concentration showed that 348 (9% of those screened) had only a moderately increased risk with a ratio of total to hdl cholesterol of less than 4.5 and 104 had a low risk with a ratio of less than 3.5. conclusions--fasting triglyceride and hdl cholesterol concentrations identify few patients at increased risk of coronary heart disease if the total cholesterol concentration is less than 6.5 mmol/l. hdl cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations should, however, be measured in patients with a total cholesterol concentration exceeding this value. total cholesterol concentration alone may overestimate risk in a considerable number of these patients, and measurement of hdl cholesterol concentration allows a more precise estimate of risk. measurement of the triglyceride concentration is required to characterise the lipoprotein abnormality. a patient should not be started on a drug that lowers lipid concentrations without having had a full lipoprotein assessment including measurement of hdl cholesterol concentration.
concurrent intradural and extradural meningiomas of the cervical spine. a case of an extradural spinal meningioma presenting with a separate intradural meningioma at the same cord level is reported. review of the english literature on spinal epidural meningiomas reveals a high incidence of concurrent intradural tumors in patients with epidural meningiomas. this leads to the conclusion that the intradural space should be evaluated carefully when an epidural meningioma is encountered.
effect of plasmapheresis on serum and csf autoantibody levels in cns paraneoplastic syndromes. we compared the effect of plasmapheresis on antineuronal autoantibody titers in the serum and csf of 3 patients with cns paraneoplastic syndromes. plasmapheresis reduced the serum autoantibody titer to 20% of the initial levels in the 3 patients, but the csf autoantibody titer decreased only in the patient with severe damage of the blood-brain barrier.
percutaneous valvuloplasty in a patient with mitral stenosis following surgical annuloplasty. a case is described in which a patient with a carpentier-edwards annuloplasty ring developed mitral stenosis and was treated with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty. possible mechanisms for the development of mitral stenosis are briefly discussed.
effect of the topical anesthetic emla on the efficacy of pulsed dye laser treatment of port-wine stains. emla cream (eutectic mixture of local anesthetics) is a new topical anesthetic composed of 25 mg lidocaine and 25 mg prilocaine in an oil-in-water emulsion cream. it has been found to be very effective for local anesthesia prior to venepuncture, minor surgical procedures, and pulsed dye laser (pdl) therapy for port-wine stains (pws) in children. however, since emla may cause vasoconstriction of cutaneous vessels, we tried to determine whether pretreatment with emla decreases the efficacy of subsequent pdl treatment. we report eight patients between the ages of 4 and 32 years with pws who received two test site treatments prior to pdl treatment. one site was pretreated with emla cream under occlusion for 60 minutes and then left unoccluded for 15 minutes prior to pdl test treatment. the other site, in the same area of the pws and patient's body, was not pretreated with emla. the test sites were compared 6-8 weeks later to determine whether emla decreased the degree of lightening of the pws compared to the non-emla-treated site. we conclude that emla is an effective topical anesthetic for pdl treatment of pws and does not adversely affect the efficacy of the treatment.
femur fracture with limb shortening causing occlusion of a polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal graft. traumatic occlusion of lower extremity polytetrafluoroethylene arterial grafts is exceedingly rare. we report a patient who suffered a supracondylar femur fracture resulting in shortening of her right lower extremity with kinking and thrombosis of her above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene arterial graft. this is the first report in the english language of prosthetic graft occlusion as a result of traumatic limb shortening. the graft thrombus was successfully lysed by use of intraarterial urokinase, and the kink was repaired by graft resection and reanastomosis. the mechanism of injury and treatment are discussed.
diagnosis of popliteal artery entrapment syndrome: the role of duplex scanning. the authors present a new diagnostic procedure to quickly and noninvasively diagnose the popliteal artery entrapment syndrome. a large personal experience on the surgical treatment of such a disease (29 cases in 22 patients) allowed us to focus on the optimal diagnostic procedure useful to detect this problem at an early stage. the technique is based on continuous-wave doppler and duplex scanning studies done both in the resting state and during active contraction of the calf muscles. if compression of the popliteal artery occurs with contraction of the calf muscles, it will be detected by a decrease in flow. this finding will also direct the radiologist to obtain films when the maneuver is repeated. this makes it unlikely that the diagnosis will be missed. since july 1988 a total of 1212 patients were evaluated with continuous-wave doppler for suspected chronic ischemia. from this group 41 patients were selected to be studied again with the combined continuous-wave doppler and duplex scanning method for possible popliteal artery entrapment syndrome. two cases were discovered and verified by dynamic angiography guided by continuous-wave doppler and treated surgically.
epidemiologic aspects of heart failure. the prevalence of heart failure in northwest london is 0.4%, a lower figure than that quoted for the united states. heart failure is a common reason (5%) for medical admission to the hospital in the london area. the problem of heart failure is predominantly in persons over 65 years. coronary artery disease is the most frequent cause, and hypertension is relatively uncommon. in those patients admitted to the hospital, the prognosis is poor.
patients' expectations of patient-controlled analgesia. patient-controlled analgesia is an increasingly popular method of postoperative pain relief. however, patients often worry about new therapies. eighty asa 1 and 2 patients aged 18-65 years were asked to list the advantages and disadvantages of using patient-controlled analgesia. the most important advantage as perceived by patients was the reduced time spent by nurses in giving medication, but there was concern that direct personal contact would also be lessened. preservation of self control, autonomy, rapid onset of analgesia, ability to titrate analgesia and lack of injections were seen as an advantage. addiction and machine faults were seen as minimal problems. preservation of patient-nurse contact is of great importance to ensure success of postoperative analgesia.
assessment of the components of observed chronic pain behavior: the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior (chip). this article describes the development of the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior (chip), an observation scale which assesses overt pain behavior. the study is an extension of an earlier study in which the dimensions and components of observed chronic pain behavior were examined. a broad definition of pain behavior is chosen (interpersonal pain behavior), namely the interaction between the pain patient and his/her direct environment. the list of pain behaviors, taken from the earlier study, has been transformed into a 78-item global rating scale to be used by nurses to quantify observed pain behavior in a clinical setting. six studies examine the factor structure and the psychometric properties of this behavioral observation method. in the first study, 6 internally reliable factors are derived using factor analytic techniques from a sample of 152 chronic pain patients. they are labeled as: 'distorted mobility,' 'verbal complaints,' 'non-verbal complaints,' 'nervousness,' 'depression' and 'day sleeping.' internal consistency of all factors, except 'day sleeping' was excellent. the following studies show that the chip is sufficiently reliable and valid. after a discussion on the advantages of this observation scale, the conclusion seems justified that the chip is a useful tool in pain assessment that can easily be used by nurses.
magnetic resonance imaging: a reliable test for the evaluation of proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis. symptomatic renal artery stenosis is a significant and treatable clinical problem. a reliable and accurate noninvasive method of screening for renal artery stenosis has not yet been found. we used magnetic resonance imaging to study 37 patients who had undergone recent renal angiography. fourteen patients had normal renal arteries by angiography. in 23 patients either unilateral or bilateral stenosis or occlusion was present. the disease process in all patients appeared to be atherosclerosis. the average age of the 37 patients was 68 years. the magnetic resonance scans and angiograms were read independently by two different radiologists, each of whom was blinded to the clinical history and the results of the other study. renal arterial stenoses found on angiogram and magnetic resonance scans were graded as absent (0% to 24%), mild (25% to 49%), moderate (50% to 74%), or severe (75% to 99%). the magnetic resonance imaging results concurred with the angiographic findings in 70 of 77 arteries (91%). magnetic resonance imaging predicted the presence of a greater than 50% stenosis of the renal artery with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 94%. magnetic resonance imaging may prove to be the best noninvasive screening test for proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis.
complement activation is a secondary rather than a causative factor in rabbit pulmonary artery ischemia/reperfusion injury. we have previously demonstrated that reperfusion of a rabbit lung in vivo after 24 h of unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion results in edema, transient leukopenia, and intravascular leukocyte aggregation. we hypothesized that complement was activated by reperfusion and that this in turn contributed to lung injury. in the preliminary phase of the study, we found that ischemia followed by reperfusion resulted in a drop in c3 to 15 +/- 10% (mean +/- sem) of the prereperfusion value as compared with no change in a group of control animals that had undergone an identical thoracotomy but without pulmonary artery occlusion and reperfusion (p less than 0.05). we then studied three groups of animals to determine if complement depletion with cobra venom factor (cvf) prior to ischemia and reperfusion would prevent the injury. rabbits treated with cvf but without occlusion and reperfusion did not develop significant lung edema, with left and right lung wet/dry ratios of 5.32 +/- 0.11 and 5.26 +/- 0.12, respectively. for rabbits that were not treated with cvf but underwent ischemia and reperfusion, the comparable numbers were 6.15 +/- 0.36 and 5.19 +/- 0.32 (p less than 0.05 for right versus left). for cvf-treated rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion, the right/left difference persisted (6.77 +/- 0.48 versus 5.35 +/- 0.14, p less than 0.01). immunocytochemistry documented c3 deposition in non-cvf rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion but not in cvf-treated rabbits. we conclude that ischemia/reperfusion of the lung results in complement activation, but it is not a complement-dependent injury.
narrow excision (1-cm margin). a safe procedure for thin cutaneous melanoma. we analyzed the results at 8 years of an international, randomized, prospective study carried out by the world health organization melanoma programme aimed at evaluating the efficacy of 1-cm-margin excision of primary melanomas not thicker than 2 mm. data for 612 patients were assessable; 305 were randomized to receive 1-cm-margin excision and 307 to receive wide excision (margins of greater than or equal to 3 cm). the major prognostic criteria were similar in the two groups. breslow thickness was 0.99 mm in the narrow excision group and 1.02 mm in the wide excision group. disease-free and overall survival rates (mean follow-up period, 90 months) were similar in the two groups. only four patients had a local recurrence as a first relapse. all underwent narrow excision, and each had primary melanomas thicker than 1 mm.
acute changes in the dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid system during experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. early changes in intracranial pressure (icp), icp volume index, and resistance to absorption of cerebrospinal fluid induced by experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage were studied in cats. after sah, the icp was slightly elevated, and there was a decrease in the buffering capacity of the intracranial space and a sharp rise in outflow resistance. during infusion of blood into the cisterna magna with a constant infusion rate, an extensive increase in icp could be demonstrated in contrast to the infusion of saline, which caused only slight elevation of icp. furthermore, during blood infusion, the icp level did not reach a plateau phase of pressure, as was demonstrated during infusion of saline. it is suggested that the marked increase in icp during blood infusion into the subarachnoid space is caused by intracranial volume loading and the simultaneous increase in cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance. it is concluded that the reported relationship between increased cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance and increased icp supports the hypothesis of a strong increase in icp during subarachnoid hemorrhage in human subjects.
effects of acute alcohol intake on tolerance to hypotension. the specific aim of this research was to test the hypothesis that intoxication with alcohol results in poor tolerance to hemorrhage. this was evaluated on the basis of blood pressure, cardiac output respiratory rate, blood flow to organs, and survival for 4 hr after hemorrhage. four groups of six swine per group were used (control, intoxicated, hemorrhage, and intoxicated-hemorrhage). the results revealed that blood alcohol concentrations near 0.1% greatly reduced tolerance to hemorrhage. intoxicated animals subjected to hemorrhage were unable to maintain an adequate cardiac output, blood pressure, or respiratory rate to sustain life. pigs tolerated higher blood alcohol concentrations, up to 0.35%, when not exposed to hemorrhage. also, unintoxicated pigs were able to compensate for severe hemorrhage. only one of the six pigs in the intoxicated-hemorrhage group survived for 4 hr after hemorrhage. in conclusion the body's ability to compensate and recover from hemorrhage was greatly reduced during intoxication. it is logical to assume that the ability to overcome numerous other stressors may also be reduced during intoxication.
the malignancy-sarcoidosis syndrome. in a retrospective review of six patients with malignancy preceding sarcoidosis, we found four cases of malignant lymphoproliferative disease (ld) and one case each of ovarian cancer and breast cancer. the median interval from onset or relapse of malignancy to sarcoidosis was nine months. of the four patients with ld, sarcoidosis appeared within six months of termination of chemotherapy for three of the patients and 15 months after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the fourth patient. at the time of diagnosis of sarcoidosis, there was no clinical or pathologic evidence of malignancy in the chest. we conclude that in contradistinction to the previously described syndrome of sarcoidosis preceding ld, there exists a syndrome of sarcoidosis following malignancy with or without chemotherapy.
hilar malignancy: treatment with an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary stent. an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary endoprosthesis was used to treat 20 patients with hilar malignancy and isolated right and left intrahepatic ducts. in 12 patients, only one intrahepatic ductal system was drained; in eight patients, both systems were drained. in five patients, both systems were drained through a single transhepatic track by arrangement of two stents in a t configuration. the initial technical success rate in placing the stents and achieving internal drainage was 100%. complications necessitating further intervention occurred in two of the 20 patients. short-term clinical follow-up was available for 19 of the 20 patients. two months after stent insertion, two patients complained of persistent jaundice, two patients died without jaundice, and 15 patients were free of symptoms of biliary obstruction. a variety of geometric configurations are possible with this endoprosthesis. the relative merits of these stent arrangements are discussed, and a new technique for placing the stents in a t configuration is described.
association of acute colonic pseudo-obstruction (ogilvie's syndrome) with herpes zoster. ogilvie's syndrome, or acute pseudo-obstruction of the colon is characterized by massive distension of the colon in the absence of organic distal obstruction. the syndrome is associated with various unrelated and, most often, extra-abdominal causes. an association between ogilvie's syndrome and herpes zoster has been reported only once, by ceccese et al. in 1985. we present a second such case. this patient did not show evidence of any active illness other than the involvement of the t10 dermatome by herpes zoster. the patient's symptoms of colonic obstruction subsided with resolution of the zosteriform rash.
fatal embolization of intestinal contents through a duodenocaval fistula. embolization of intestinal contents to the lung is an exceedingly rare event, which to our knowledge, has never been reported as a cause of death. equally rare is duodenocaval fistula resulting from a penetrating duodenal peptic ulcer. we present the case of a 51-year-old man whose duodenal ulcer led to a fistulous tract with the inferior vena cava and subsequently to progressive pulmonary embolization of intestinal contents, ultimately resulting in death from respiratory failure.
the medical necessity of evaluation and treatment of port-wine stains. new lasers and improved laser delivery systems have allowed for the safe and effective treatment of port-wine stains in patients of all ages. the satisfactory results obtained by laser treatment have increased the number of patients seeking consultation regarding their birthmarks. it is imperative that physicians recognize the various medical syndromes and problems associated with port-wine stains. a review of 415 patients with facial port-wine stains has revealed hypertrophy and/or nodularity in 65% of patients by the fifth decade of life, which increases significantly the morbidity of these lesions. it is believed that laser treatment will minimize the medical and psychologic complications that result from the natural evolution of port-wine stains.
aortobronchial fistula after an aortic operation. a 71-year-old man with a postoperative aortobronchial fistula was successfully treated. the fistula occurred between the left lower lobe and the descending thoracic aorta, to which a distal anastomosis of a temporary bypass graft had been placed during thoracic aortic aneurysmectomy 3 years before. for saving patients with this complication, early surgical treatment during episodes of intermittent hemoptysis is important. the use of an omentum pedicle flap for the isolation of the suture line is a important adjunct.
shock wave lithotripsy-induced renal injury. both clinical and experimental reports clearly show that shock wave lithotripsy (swl) causes acute renal effects in a majority, if not all, treated kidneys. swl-induced acute renal damage may result in severe injury to the nephron, microvasculature, and the surrounding interstitium. in addition, at least three chronic adverse effects have been identified when shock waves are administered at a therapeutic dose. these include (1) an accelerated rise in arterial blood pressure, (2) a decrease in renal function, and (3) an increased rate of stone recurrence. the clinical and experimental data that document tissue injury as a result of shock wave treatment are compelling, but have not allowed us to determine the factors responsible for the adverse acute side effects or to identify conditions that may predispose a patient to serious long-term health problems. thus, there is an urgent need for incisive, fundamental experimental studies to establish the safe limits for shock wave delivery. to accomplish this goal, animal experimentation is required so that the time course and severity of acute and chronic alterations can be followed in a model that closely mimics human renal structure and functions. the minipig provides this model.
increase of beta 1-6-branched oligosaccharides in human esophageal carcinomas invasive against surrounding tissue in vivo and in vitro. the -glcnac beta 1-6man- (beta 1-6) branched n-glycosidic oligosaccharides expressed on tumor cells have been found to contribute to malignant and metastatic potential in experimental tumor models. phaseolus vulgaris leukoagglutinin (l-pha) requires the beta 1-6-linked lactosamine antenna for high-affinity binding and was used histochemically to characterize the distribution of these sugar structures in human esophageal squamous cell carcinomas from 42 patients. leukoagglutinin-reactive carcinoma cells in the invasive tumors were distributed predominantly on the outer surface of the tumor adjacent to the surrounding tissue. furthermore, when te 1 cells, a human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma line, were cultured in a collagen gel matrix to obtain colonies in a three-dimensional form, these colonies exhibited high affinity for l-pha binding only in the outer cell layer facing the collagen matrix, unrelated to the cell growth cycle. these findings suggest that the increase in beta 1-6-branched oligosaccharides in esophageal carcinomas is an important trait of the tumor in the invasion into the surrounding tissue.
superiority of transesophageal echocardiography in detecting cardiac source of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemia of uncertain etiology. the diagnostic yield of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography for identifying a cardiac source of embolism was compared in 79 patients presenting with unexplained stroke or transient ischemic attack. there were 35 men and 44 women with a mean age of 59 years (range 17 to 84); 52% had clinical cardiac disease. both transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiograms were performed using doppler color flow and contrast imaging. transesophageal echocardiography identified a potential cardiac source of embolism in 57% of the overall study group compared with only 15% by transthoracic echocardiography (p less than 0.0005). compared with transthoracic echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography more frequently identified atrial septal aneurysm associated with a patent foramen ovale (9 versus 1 of 79 patients, p less than 0.005), left atrial thrombus or tumor (6 versus 0 of 79 patients, p less than 0.05) and left atrial spontaneous contrast (13 versus 0 of 79 patients, p less than 0.0005). all cases of left atrial thrombus or spontaneous contrast were identified in patients with clinically identified cardiac disease. in the 38 patients with no cardiac disease, transesophageal echocardiography identified isolated atrial septal aneurysm and atrial septal aneurysm with a patent foramen ovale more frequently than transthoracic echocardiography (8 versus 2 of 38 patients, p less than 0.05). the two techniques had a similar rate of identifying apical thrombus and mitral valve prolapse. overall, transesophageal echocardiography identified abnormalities in 39% of patients with no cardiac disease versus 19% for transthoracic echocardiography (p less than 0.005). thus, transesophageal echocardiography identifies potential cardiac sources of embolism in the majority of patients presenting with unexplained stroke.
cardiac performance in infants referred for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. we performed cardiac evaluations in 59 infants referred for severe lung disease to determine whether cardiac performance was impaired in those requiring extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo). infants were divided into two groups: group 1 (n = 25) received conventional therapy and group 2 (n = 34) received ecmo therapy after meeting established criteria. ventilatory and oxygenation indexes and estimates of right ventricular systolic pressure were measured. load-dependent and load-independent echocardiographic indexes of cardiac performance were also measured. the infants in the two groups had similar diagnoses, age, weight, inotropic support, ventilator and oxygenation indexes on admission, and survival. heart rate and estimates of preload and afterload were similar in the two groups. ventricular shortening fraction was 36.1 +/- 7.6% in group 1 and 40.5 +/- 8.8% in group 2 (p value was not significant). velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (vcf/sec) was 1.41 +/- 0.35 in group 1 and 1.58 +/- 0.39 in group 2 (p value was not significant). the relationship between wall stress and ventricular shortening was similar in the two groups. there were no differences in cardiac output. pulmonary artery pressure was estimated to be 56 +/- 13 mm hg in group 1 and 63 +/- 10 mm hg in group 2 (p = 0.017). thus no significant differences were found in load-dependent or load-independent measures of cardiac performance in infants with severe lung disease treated with ecmo or conventional therapy. we conclude that cardiac failure is not the primary cause of clinical deterioration in infants with severe lung disease who require ecmo therapy.
improved access to lesions of the central skull base by mobilization of the zygoma: experience with 54 cases. improved access to lesions at the medial end of the sphenoid wing or in the interpeduncular cistern after mobilization of the zygoma has been a subject of growing interest in recent years. this study describes the operative technique we have adopted and records our experience with 55 operations in 54 patients who underwent the procedure in the past 3 years. seven patients had vascular lesions, 44 had tumors, and 3 had miscellaneous lesions. the majority of the tumors were medial meningiomas, and particular note is made of those arising from the cavernous sinus with respect to their resectability. sixteen of these tumors were encountered, and total excision was possible in 11 cases. access to the infratemporal fossa is facilitated, and in 2 cases we were able to excise completely trigeminal neuromas that had extended there. the extra maneuver adds little to the overall operating time, and complications relating to it are uncommon, mild in degree, and usually self-limiting. we conclude that the operation is extremely valuable in appropriate circumstances.
parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis. the combination of a parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis in an adult, due to a spastic contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is an extremely rare condition. we have recently been exposed to such case, in which it was very difficult to make the diagnosis and where ct of the neck gave us the answers without any difficulty. the indication for ct at an early stage in unexplained neck infections is stressed.
hbv-dna detection by gene amplification in acute hepatitis b. serum samples from 62 women, inadvertently infected with hepatitis b virus in an in vitro fertilization program, were tested for the presence of hepatitis b virus-dna using the polymerase chain reaction. under conditions of a strict spatial separation of dna extraction, amplification and product analysis, we succeeded in detection of as few as 360 hepatitis b virus particles per milliliter. hepatitis b virus-dna was detected with a high frequency during hbsag and hbeag antigenemia (98.5%) but also in the convalescent phase after appearance of antibody to hbsag (18.2%). however, all patients with hepatitis b virus-dna in convalescent sera were hepatitis b virus-dna negative 3 to 6 mo later. all patients with hbeag-positive samples showed hepatitis b virus-dna positivity by polymerase chain reaction. for acute hepatitis, gene amplification restores the relationship between hbeag and hepatitis b virus-dna observed in serum from chronic hepatitis b patients and calls attention to the prolonged presence of hepatitis b virus-dna in serum after generally accepted criteria for resolution of the infection have been reached.
proliferation characteristics of human colorectal carcinomas measured in vivo. the cell proliferation kinetics of 100 human colonic and rectal adenocarcinomas have been studied in vivo by bromodeoxyuridine infusion and multiparameter flow cytometry. a total of 97 patients, three with synchronous tumours, consented to receive a single bolus dose of 250 mg between 2.4 and 16 h before curative or palliative surgery. by this method, the ploidy pattern, the total and aneuploid labelling indices (li), the s phase duration (ts) and the potential doubling time (tpot) can be estimated. of the tumours 48 were diploid and 52 were aneuploid. the mean and median total li of 100 tumours were 9.0 per cent (range 0.7-22.2 per cent). the mean aneuploid li was 12.1 per cent (median 12.0 per cent, range 2.0-25.5 per cent), and was significantly higher than the total li (p = 0.01). the labelling index alone is not a sufficient indicator of proliferation, because the ts also varies within and between tumours. the intertumour range of the ts varied from 4.0 to 28.6 h. the mean was 14.1 h and the median was 13.1 h. the mean tpot was 5.9 days (median 3.9 days) with a range of 1.7-21.4 days. no correlation was found between any kinetic parameters and the dukes' classification or histological classification. the correlation between proliferation and prognosis will be established in due course.
ticlopidine treatment reduces the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. the timad study group. the ticlopidine microangiopathy of diabetes study (timad), a randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial, assessed the effect of this antiplatelet agent (ticlopidine hydrochloride) in reducing the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy in 435 patients followed up for 3 years. the mean yearly increase in definite microaneurysms on fluorescein angiograms was significantly higher (p = .03) in the placebo group (1.44 +/- 4.67) than in the ticlopidine group (0.48 +/- 5.79). significance was limited to primary analysis using a quality angiographic coefficient for definite microaneurysms in patients with at least three readable angiograms over a 3-year period. ticlopidine was significantly beneficial to insulin-treated diabetic patients, inducing a sevenfold reduction of the yearly microaneurysm progression (0.23 +/- 6.66) compared with the placebo (1.57 +/- 5.29) (p = .03). among insulin-treated diabetic patients, fewer had development of new vessels in the ticlopidine group than in the placebo group, at borderline statistical significance (p = .056). overall retinopathy progression was significantly less severe in the ticlopidine group (p = .04). adverse reactions associated with ticlopidine included neutropenia (severe in one patient) with no clinical complications, diarrhea, or rash. this study demonstrated that ticlopidine slows down the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy.
differences in glycolytic capacity and hypoxia tolerance between hepatoma cells and hepatocytes. viability, glycolytic capacity and energy metabolism under anaerobic conditions were studied in the hepatoma cell lines htc, fu5 and hepg2 and in rat and human hepatocytes using glucose and fructose as glycolytic precursors. during 6 hr of anaerobic incubation without additional substrate, viability decreased rapidly in fu5 and htc cells, whereas viability of hepg2 cells was not significantly affected. in all tumor cells, 10 mmol/l glucose prevented hypoxic cell injury almost completely. lactate formation from glucose was about five times higher than in hepatocytes under these circumstances. atp content of the tumor cells remained almost constant under anaerobic conditions in the presence of glucose. ten millimoles per liter of fructose diminished glycolysis in the hepatoma cells compared with glucose, ranging from 87% reduction in htc cells to 43% reduction in hepg2 cells. accordingly, atp content decreased rapidly in the fu5 and slowly in the hepg2 cells. viability was strongly diminished in the htc and fu5 cells in the presence of fructose, whereas in the hepg2 cells no effect of fructose on viability was detectable. in contrast to the hepatoma cells, rat and human hepatocytes exhibited higher rates of anaerobic glycolysis in the presence of fructose and thus were able to maintain their viability under these conditions. these differences in glycolytic capacity, energy metabolism and hypoxia tolerance of hepatoma cells compared with hepatocytes may be used for the treatment of liver cancer by isolated liver perfusion and ex situ revision of the organ.
review of the all-polyethylene tibial component in total knee arthroplasty. a minimum seven-year follow-up period. a retrospective analysis of 144 total knee arthroplasties was performed between 1975 and 1981 with a minimum follow-up period of seven years. a posterior cruciate condylar prosthesis was used in each procedure. patients were followed clinically and roentgenographically, and a set of statistical variables was established based on elevation in joint line, tibial component angular alignment, overall limb alignment, and position of the tibial component on anteroposterior and lateral roentgenograms. review of the study group found that the hospital for special surgery knee scores improved from a preoperative score of 55 to a postoperative score of 88, with 94.5% having good or excellent results. the mean postoperative range of motion was 106 degrees with a mean extension of -0.3 degrees. radiolucencies developed in 41% of the knees with 5% of the knees having progressive radiolucencies. eight knees were considered failures based on clinical and roentgenographic evaluations. factors found to significantly affect the formation of radiolucent lines included a shift of the tibial component medially by greater than 4 mm, a varus tilt of the tibial component greater than 2 degrees, and the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. the only variable associated with aseptic loosening was an elevation of the joint line by greater than 8 mm.
four-part valgus impacted fractures of the proximal humerus. there is a specific type of displaced four-part fracture of the proximal humerus which consists of valgus impaction of the head fragment; this deserves special consideration because the rate of avascular necrosis is lower than that of other displaced four-part fractures. using either closed reduction or limited open reduction and minimal internal fixation, 74% satisfactory results can be achieved in this injury.
computed tomography in patients with esophageal perforation. contrast esophagram is the diagnostic procedure of choice in patients with clinically suspected perforation of the esophagus. in patients in whom the usual clinical signs or symptoms are unrecognized and in whom the diagnosis is obscure, the diagnosis of a perforated esophagus may be suggested by the finding of mediastinal fluid and air on ct. three patients are reviewed. the perforations included one spontaneous, one from erosion of an esophageal carcinoma, and one iatrogenic. in two of the three patients, the diagnosis of perforated esophagus had not been made initially and in one patient the initial esophagram was interpreted as normal. computed tomography of the chest in each patient led to the suspected diagnosis of perforated esophagus. prompt appropriate surgical intervention followed. the findings of mediastinal fluid and more importantly mediastinal air on ct of the chest are strongly suggestive of esophageal perforation.
myelopathic neurosarcoidosis: diagnostic value of enhanced mri. neurosarcoidosis is an underdiagnosed variant of the systemic disease. we report a case of myelopathic neurosarcoidosis, noting the contribution made by mri in establishing the diagnosis, and we discuss the possibility that the disease is differentially responsive to various steroid formulations.
loss of chromosome 22 alleles in human sporadic spinal schwannomas. acoustic neuromas occur either as sporadic solitary tumors in the general population or as inherited bilateral tumors typically in patients with neurofibromatosis type 2. loss of heterozygosity for markers on the long arm of chromosome 22 has been reported in both instances, and neurofibromatosis type 2 has been genetically linked to a marker on the long arm of this autosome, suggesting that a unique locus on chromosome 22 is implicated in tumorigenesis of both sporadic and inherited acoustic neuromas. to determine whether the locus for neurofibromatosis type 2 might also be responsible for tumorigenesis of those schwannomas distinct from acoustic neuromas in people without neurofibromatosis type 2, we studied the dna content of three sporadic spinal schwannomas. in all three, we found loss of heterozygosity for at least three markers on the long arm of chromosome 22, indicating a partial or total monosomy 22 in the tumor. our results suggest that a locus on chromosome 22 is responsible for tumorigenesis in schwann cells regardless of their location in the central nervous system, and that some other mechanism (genetic or nongenetic) might account for the relative high proportion of schwannomas developing from the eighth cranial nerve.
biplane transesophageal echocardiography: technique, image orientation, and preliminary experience in 131 patients. transesophageal echocardiography with use of a uniplane phased-array transducer with a transverse or horizontal scanning plane has become a well-established tool for evaluating cardiovascular diseases. recent introduction of biplane probes has enhanced the diagnostic capability of this imaging technique. this article discusses the technique of biplane transesophageal echocardiographic examination and image orientation. the diagnostic value and advantages of various biplane transesophageal images of the heart, aorta, and aortic arch from various esophageal positions are described.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xx. reperfusate composition: detrimental effects of initial asanguineous cardioplegic washout after acute coronary occlusion. this study tests whether initial asanguineous washout of potentially toxic substances that accumulate during ischemia improves recovery produced by blood cardioplegic reperfusion and evaluates the role of plasma versus whole blood cardioplegia. methods: twenty-four dogs underwent 2 hours of occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and 20 minutes of blood cardioplegic reperfusion on total vented bypass. in 13 dogs, a 5-minute infusion of either a crystalloid (n = 7) or plasma (n = 6) cardioplegic solution (containing the same ph, calcium potassium, and osmolarity as blood cardioplegia) was given immediately before reoxygenation with blood cardioplegia. regional oxygen uptake and coronary vascular resistance were measured during controlled reperfusion, and segmental shortening (ultrasonic crystals), tissue water content, and histochemical damage (triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain) were assessed 1 hour after bypass was discontinued. results: asanguineous cardioplegic washout before reoxygenation with blood cardioplegic solution resulted in a progressive (+42%) increase in coronary vascular resistances (from 123 to 176 units, p less than 0.05) and low oxygen utilization during 20 minutes of blood cardioplegic reperfusion (29 ml/100 gm, p less than 0.05); coronary vascular resistance remained low throughout blood cardioplegic reperfusion without washout (from 109 to 98 units), and oxygen utilization was 54 ml/100 gm (p less than 0.05). neither plasma nor crystalloid washout restored substantial regional systolic shortening (3% systolic shortening versus 73% systolic shortening with blood cardioplegia), and asanguineous washout caused more myocardial edema (81.1% +/- 80.9% versus 79.5% water content, p less than 0.05) and produced extensive transmural triphenyltetrazolium chloride damage (48% +/- 41% versus 8% nonstaining in area at risk, p less than 0.05) than initial blood cardioplegic reperfusion. conclusion: asanguineous cardioplegic washout before blood cardioplegic reperfusion limits oxygen utilization during subsequent controlled reperfusion, restricts early recovery of systolic shortening, allows more myocardial edema, and produces extensive histochemical damage, which may be avoided by initial reoxygenation with blood cardioplegia. the red blood cells appear more important than the plasma components of blood cardioplegia.
epidural haematoma requiring surgical decompression following repeated cervical epidural steroid injections for chronic pain. we report a case of epidural haematoma following a steroid injection into the cervical epidural space. the complication occurred on the seventh such injection over a 2 year period for chronic spinal pain. surgical decompression over the seventh cervical and the upper 3 thoracic vertebrae was required to alleviate the symptoms of paralysis and anaesthesia. the patient subsequently required skin grafting to the surgical site and two trans-urethral resections of the prostate gland during his 6 week hospital admission. he made a full recovery.
two-dimensional echocardiographic features of double outlet left ventricle. in a cyanotic newborn infant, the diagnosis of double outlet left ventricle was made from the two-dimensional echocardiographic examination. the diagnosis was later confirmed at cardiac catheterization and surgery. the parasternal and subcostal views were especially useful for identification of the origin of both great arteries from the morphologic left ventricle. a review of the medical literature since 1967 revealed 77 cases of double outlet left ventricle, most of which were diagnosed only at surgery or postmortem examination. the anatomic features demonstrated with two-dimensional echocardiography in this case are representative of the findings cited most often in the cases reported in the medical literature.
management of peyronie disease by implantation of inflatable penile prosthesis. sixty-seven patients with advanced peyronie disease were treated by implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis (ipp). twenty-eight of the 67 patients had documented total erectile failure. the remaining 39 patients had significant penile curvature causing "mechanical impotence" due to inability to achieve adequate vaginal penetration and chose implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis (in some cases, combined with a straightening procedure) rather than one of the standard penile straightening procedures. currently, 63 of the 67 patients have functioning prosthetic devices; in 3 other patients the device was removed because of infection, and 1 patient was dissatisfied and had the device removed. for impotent patients with severe peyronie disease for whom other medical or surgical treatment is neither desirable nor suitable, we recommend implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis combined with a possible straightening procedure.
intracranial germ-cell tumors in children. all patients with confirmed intracranial germ-cell tumors treated at the hospital of sick children during the period january, 1952, to december, 1989, were reviewed. of the 51 tumors reviewed, 16 were located in the suprasellar region, 32 in the pineal region, and three in both the pineal and the suprasellar regions. forty-nine patients underwent surgical resection which was total in seven and partial in 20, and consisted of a biopsy in 22. two patients were managed on the basis of serum and cerebrospinal fluid markers. surgical tools such as the operating microscope, the ultrasonic surgical aspirator, and the laser beam allowed safe debulking and removal of the deep-seated tumors in the pineal region. there were no operative deaths in the 36 patients treated since 1972, who included 23 with pineal tumors. twenty-five patients with germinomas received radiotherapy and had a 5-year survival rate of 85.1%. thirteen patients with non-germinoma germ-cell tumors received radiotherapy and had a 5-year survival rate of 45.5%. on the basis of this review, the authors recommend resection of pineal and suprasellar germ-cell tumors in order to firmly establish an accurate histological diagnosis to guide the extent of adjuvant therapy. in the case of a pure germinoma without evidence of dissemination, adjuvant therapy consists only of local radiotherapy. on the other hand, for malignant non-germinoma germ-cell tumors, adjuvant therapy must include chemotherapy as well as craniospinal axis radiotherapy.
management of deep venous thrombosis in the pregnant female. deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities is an uncommon but dreaded complication of pregnancy which can present diagnostic and therapeutic problems to the treating physician. from january 1, 1985, to december 31, 1988, 7867 deliveries were performed at st. luke's hospital. five of these patients were pregnant women who were treated for deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities. the women were either in their second or third trimester of pregnancy. the clinical diagnosis in each case was confirmed with duplex ultrasonography. each patient was treated with 7 to 10 days of intravenous heparin therapy and then discharged on subcutaneous heparin therapy. there were no bleeding complications related to the heparin therapy. no patient developed a pulmonary embolism. each patient delivered a normal child. the only complication was a heparin induced rash in one patient which resolved when a different preparation of heparin was used. the management of deep venous thrombosis in pregnancy is discussed.
primary biliary cirrhosis: paradigm or paradox for autoimmunity. primary biliary cirrhosis has been classified as a model autoimmune disease based on striking defects in immune regulation and the presence of autoantibodies to mitochondria. until recently the significance and definition of mitochondrial autoreactivity was unknown. since 1987, there has been a vast improvement in the understanding and definition of the biochemical and molecular target autoantigens. the cloning of complementary dnas for mitochondrial antigens has led to the identification of three enzymes of the 2-oxo-acid dehydrogenase family as the targets of the autoantibodies to mitochondria in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. the major reactive autoantigen is the e2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase. immunodominant sites on pyruvate dehydrogenase e2 (autoepitopes) have been mapped and have been shown to be the site of attachment of the functionally important lipoic acid prosthetic group. the autoepitope for the other enzymes probably occupies an equivalent site on the enzyme. the availability and definition of these mitochondrial autoepitopes have allowed specific questions to be addressed relating to the processing and targeting of these autoantigens as well as further studies on mechanisms of immunopathology. similarly, the availability of well-defined autoantigens could contribute to the development of valid animal models in addition to the already described reproduction of the biliary ductular lesions by transfer of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis into severe combined immunodeficient mice. such models will facilitate specific study of the role of major histocompatibility complex expression and the characterization of t-cell reactivity. thus, primary biliary cirrhosis is a key example of significant progress in autoimmunity being made by use of recombinant dna technology.
comparison of levels of several human microsomal cytochrome p-450 enzymes and epoxide hydrolase in normal and disease states using immunochemical analysis of surgical liver samples. a group of 100 human liver samples obtained from three different network sources was divided into groups of normal, cirrhotic, metastatic cancer and other disease groups. these samples were analyzed for amounts of cytochrome p-450 ia2, iic, iie1 and iiia and epoxide hydrolase per unit of microsomal protein using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunochemical staining. for each enzyme the amount of protein detected varied by two orders of magnitude, even within the set of normal liver samples. with respect to the liver samples judged to be normal, the cirrhotic samples showed decreased levels of p-450 ia2 and iie1 and epoxide hydrolase (p less than .05). the level of p-450 iiia proteins also appeared lower but the high variance did not allow such a statistically valid conclusion. the liver samples obtained from metastatic cancer patients did not show decreased levels of any of the proteins examined, and levels of p-450 iic proteins were enhanced in this group compared to the controls. in the samples obtained from patients with other liver diseases, the only major change was a decrease in the level of p-450 ia2. these findings are of use in explaining some of the known effects of hepatic disease on the in vitro and in vivo metabolism of certain drugs.
conditioning of the spinal stretch reflex: implications for rehabilitation. the purpose of this article is to describe a new technique that can potentially be applied to patients with hyperactive spinal stretch reflexes (ssrs). the progression of clinical research from conditioning of individual muscles or muscle groups (electromyographic biofeedback) to conditioning ssrs is explained. research data from subhuman primates in addition to the first human experiments are reviewed. potential applications of ssr conditioning are discussed, as are the issues requiring further delineation and research before the specificity of a training effect can be ascertained.
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia. we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen, cow milk beta-lactoglobulin (blg) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms. sixteen patients (77% of those with arthralgia) responded to diet (rd) with marked reduction of symptoms; the others did not respond (nr). ten (all but one rd with arthralgia) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk. four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia. in all cases, specific ige to cow milk was absent. these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria, and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet, are related to excess intestinal permeability. the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction.
in-hospital mortality after balloon aortic valvuloplasty: frequency and associated factors. percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty has been accompanied by significant early periprocedural morbidity and mortality. identification of factors associated with increased mortality might allow for improved selection of patients. the mansfield scientific balloon aortic valvuloplasty registry was analyzed to identify the frequency of in-hospital death and the factors associated with it. of 492 patients undergoing the procedure, 37 (7.5%) died during the hospital stay in which valvuloplasty was performed. twenty-four of these patients died within the first 24 h and the remainder died within 7 days after the procedure. there were significant differences in baseline clinical and hemodynamic characteristics as well as procedural and postprocedural variables between patients dying and those surviving the in-hospital period. multivariate analysis identified four factors associated with increased mortality: 1) the occurrence of a procedure-related complication, 2) a lower initial left ventricular systolic pressure, 3) a smaller final aortic valve area, and 4) a lower baseline cardiac output. thus, baseline hemodynamic, procedural and postprocedural variables and complications can be identified that are associated with increased mortality.
effect of felbamate on plasma levels of carbamazepine and its metabolites. felbamate (fbm) is a novel antiepileptic drug (aed) currently undergoing clinical evaluation in the united states. during a controlled clinical trial conducted at the national institutes of health clinical center, fbm was added to constant carbamazepine (cbz) monotherapy. cbz total concentrations were reduced during active fbm treatment (mean reduction 25%, range 10-42%, p less than 0.001). the effect was evident after the first week of treatment and reached a plateau in 2-4 weeks. to clarify the interaction mechanism, free and total concentrations of cbz and its plasma metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) and ultrafiltration in four patients. in these patients, fbm treatment reduced cbz concentrations and increased cbz-epoxide (cbz-e) concentrations (p less than 0.01). free fractions of all compounds were unmodified. fbm appears to be capable of inducing cbz metabolism. cbz-fbm interaction may be clinically relevant.
neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients. in a consecutive entry trial, the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (bmt). the aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections. chemotaxis, superoxide production, and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2, 6, 9, and 12 months after bmt. skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after bmt. infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year. six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before bmt. two months after bmt all 10 patients with greater than stage ii graft-versus-host disease (gvhd), and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage ii gvhd had at least one decreased function. at this time, patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis (p less than .05), phagocytic-bactericidal activity (p less than .005), and superoxide production (p less than .025) than those without. defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections. at 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without gvhd. in contrast, at 9 months three of three patients, and at 1 year two of three with chronic gvhd had still decreased neutrophil function. in conclusion, neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after bmt. combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk.
transient neuromuscular impairment resulting from prolonged inhalation of halothane and enflurane. inhalation anesthesia first with halothane followed by enflurane relieved a patient with status asthmaticus who was refractory to conventional therapy including mechanical ventilation. after 13 days of anesthesia while on mechanical ventilation and employing nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, significant neuromuscular impairment, manifested by tetraplegia and sensory disturbance, developed. anesthesia was discontinued on day 14, and the patient was weaned from mechanical ventilation on day 16. over the next two months, the neuromuscular impairment markedly improved. halothane was associated with cardiac arrhythmias and hepatitis necessitating replacement by enflurane. enflurane appeared to be as effective a treatment for refractory asthma as halothane. the most probable cause of the neuromuscular impairment in our patient was the long-term use of inhalation anesthetics or nondepolarizing muscle relaxants.
idiopathic first seizure in adult life: who should be treated? objective--to assess the accuracy of the diagnosis, recurrence rate, and fate after the first recurrence in adult patients with an untreated idiopathic first seizure. design--hospital based follow up study. setting--one university hospital and three general hospitals in the netherlands. patients--165 patients aged 15 years or more with a clinically presumed idiopathic seizure; diagnosis was based on a description of the episode according to prespecified diagnostic criteria. main outcome measures--results of additional investigations and follow up regarding the accuracy of the diagnosis; first recurrence; and response to treatment after the first recurrence. results--computed tomography showed major abnormalities in 5.5% of the patients and follow up led to doubts about the initial clinical diagnosis in another 6%. cumulative risk of recurrence was 40% at two years. the cumulative risk of recurrence at two years was 81% (95% confidence interval 66% to 97%) in patients with epileptic discharges on a standard or partial sleep deprivation electroencephalogram, 39% (27% to 51%) in patients with other electroencephalographic abnormalities, and 12% (3% to 21%) in patients with normal electroencephalograms. treatment was initiated in most patients who had one or more recurrences; 40 (70%) patients were completely controlled, eight (14%) had sporadic seizures, and nine (16%) did not become free of seizures within one year despite treatment. conclusions--the decision to initiate or delay treatment should be based on electroencephalographic findings.
cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas. the rarity of cholangiocarcinoma occurring in von meyenburg complexes is well appreciated. we describe the case of a 35-year-old man found to have cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas of the liver. areas of ductal proliferation and atypia within the bile duct hamartomas suggest malignant transformation to cholangiocarcinoma.
natural killer cell activity in patients with liver cirrhosis relative to severity of liver damage. to evaluate the role of severe liver damage on natural killer cell activity, 29 patients with liver cirrhosis were examined. the natural killer cell activity was measured with a 4-hr chromium release assay, and the k562 cell line was employed as target cells. the natural killer cell activity was significantly decreased in cirrhotic patients compared with normal controls and patients with chronic active hepatitis. cirrhotic patients with pugh's c grade of severity of liver disease had lower natural killer cell activity. the depression of natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients was inversely correlated with prothrombin time ratios, and the natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy was lower than in patients without hepatic encephalopathy. thus, the diminished natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients might be related to the severity of liver damage.
the effects of cyproheptadine on locomotion and on spasticity in patients with spinal cord injuries. the effects of cyproheptadine, a serotonergic antagonist, were studied in seven patients with spastic paresis of spinal origin. six patients were included in a double blind crossover trial (maximal dose 24 mg/day). the patients were evaluated on both their spasticity and locomotor function. four of the patients also participated in an open trial in which cyproheptadine was administered for a minimum of six months at optimal dose. patients walked on a treadmill at full weight bearing when possible, or with 40% of their body weight externally supported, as required, by an overhead harness system. cyproheptadine considerably decreased the sustained ankle clonus and episodes of spontaneous spasms observed in all the patients who previously presented these manifestations of spasticity. two patients who required body weight support (bws) during locomotion could walk at full weight bearing during cyproheptadine therapy. a more normal timing of emg patterns in these patients during cyproheptadine therapy was associated with temporal distance changes and marked improvement of joint angular displacement. in contrast, the other patients showed marginal changes in the emg and the kinematic pattern but eventually managed to walk at a higher speed. these preliminary results suggest that cyproheptadine can reduce spasticity and enhance locomotor function in spinal cord injured patients.
acute appendicitis in the pregnant patient. acute appendicitis is the most common surgical problem in pregnancy requiring emergent intervention. to establish a contemporary patient profile and formulate an effective management strategy, a retrospective review was conducted of 84 pregnant patients who underwent laparotomy with a preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis. gestational stage at presentation included the first trimester in 27 patients (32%), the second trimester in 37 patients (44%), the third trimester in 13 patients (16%), and the puerperium in 7 patients (8%). fifty-four patients (64%) had pathologically proven acute appendicitis; the incidence did not vary by trimester. other intra-abdominal conditions were detected in 15 patients (18%). there were no significant differences between patients with positive and negative laparotomies (or among trimesters) regarding frequency of presenting symptoms and signs or laboratory results. operation occurred within 24 hours of symptom onset in 19 of 54 (35%) instances of proven acute appendicitis. perforation occurred in 23 of 54 patients (43%), all of whom had symptoms exceeding 24 hours (p less than 0.0005). five instances of perinatal death and one case of extreme perinatal morbidity were associated with negative laparotomies; only one of these was attributed to operation itself. no adverse long-term maternal morbidity or mortality occurred. wound infection developed in seven cases of acute appendicitis (six perforated) and two negative explorations. we conclude that (1) gestational physiologic changes obscure the accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis; (2) the natural history of acute appendicitis is not affected by trimester of presentation; and (3) adverse sequelae of acute appendicitis are obviated by prompt operative exploration and prevention of appendiceal perforation.
thickness of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque and ischemic risk. noninvasive duplex scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque was performed in 286 consecutive patients referred to a cerebrovascular diagnostic laboratory. the presence and thickness of such plaque in the region of the carotid bifurcation were examined for association with the degree of vessel stenosis, age, sex, smoking history, history of prior transient ischemic attack or stroke, and systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease. atherosclerotic plaque thickness was positively correlated with degree of vessel stenosis (p less than 0.0001). both parameters were independent predictors of cerebrovascular events but plaque thickness was a better predictor of prior transient ischemic attacks (p less than 0.05), and vessel stenosis was a better predictor of prior stroke (p less than 0.005). patient age (p less than 0.001) and pack-years of cigarette use (p less than 0.001) were independent positive predictors of carotid atherosclerotic plaque thickness. the greatest effect of smoking and atherosclerotic plaque thickness was seen in heavy smokers younger than age 55. both carotid artery plaque thickness and pack-years of smoking were significant independent predictors of other systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease (p less than 0.05). such noninvasive scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque demonstrates the significant role of age and smoking in the progression of disease. it also suggests a significant role for carotid atherosclerotic artery plaque in the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular events, especially transient ischemic attacks, even prior to the production of a flow-limiting stenosis. finally, noninvasive screening of carotid artery plaque may provide a useful marker for the patient at risk for systemic atherosclerotic disease and identify the patient for whom maximal atherosclerotic risk factor modification is needed.
trends in conserving treatment of invasive carcinoma of the breast in females. this population-based study presents trends in the treatment of node-negative invasive carcinoma of the breast in females during the 1980s in the detroit metropolitan area. it was done to determine whether or not there has been a significant shift toward conservation of the breast from 1980 to 1987. trend analyses of surgical treatment, tumor size, node status, year of diagnosis, age and race were performed for 13,217 patients drawn from the metropolitan detroit cancer surveillance system. a significant increase in the use of conserving the breast was observed, with younger women receiving this treatment option more often than older women. implications for a continuing shift in the biologic findings and treatment of carcinoma of the breast are discussed.
laryngeal myxoma. myxoma is a rare mesenchymal tumor that is especially uncommon in the head and neck. we report a case of a myxoma of the larynx in a 70-year-old man, which, to our knowledge, is the second case reported in the english-language literature. although benign, myxomas have a propensity for local recurrence due to their tendency to infiltrate surrounding tissues. they commonly appear encapsulated, but simple enucleation is not adequate treatment; excision should include a margin of normal tissue around the tumor.
parosteal osteosarcoma. treatment by wide resection and prosthetic replacement. we have reviewed 20 cases of parosteal osteosarcoma treated by wide local resection and prosthetic replacement and followed up for six to 17 years. limb function was excellent in 85%. one patient with grade iii histological disease developed pulmonary metastases. four patients had local recurrences, which were related to repeated preliminary biopsies, inappropriate siting of biopsy and vascular encroachment by the tumour. after this mode of treatment, the outcome was not related to medullary invasion by the tumour.
transient ischaemic attacks and small-vessel disease. dutch tia study group histories and computed tomograms of 606 patients with transient cerebral ischaemia were studied. all symptoms and signs had completely resolved within 24 hours, and any episodes suggestive of posterior fossa ischaemia were excluded. computed tomography, done after the clinical features had resolved, showed 79 relevant infarcts: 46 were small, deep, lacunar infarcts (58%, 95% confidence interval [ci] 47-69%), and 33 were larger cortical infarcts. the histories and the type of infarct in these 79 patients were compared to see whether lacunar infarcts were preceded by a history of unilateral motor or sensory symptoms without features usually attributed to the cerebral cortex. the positive predictive value of such lacunar symptoms was 0.74, with a negative predictive value of 0.61. 11 patients had a cortical infarct despite a history of lacunar tias, but only one occurred in the left hemisphere and speech was not affected. of 527 patients with transient ischaemic attacks without a relevant infarct visible on computed tomography, 335 (64%) had a history suggestive of lacunar ischaemia, whereas in several other studies 20-25% of patients with ischaemic stroke have evidence of lacunar infarcts. lacunar tias may therefore have a better prognosis than cortical tias or may often precede cortical infarcts; alternatively, many cortical infarcts may occur without warning.
risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine: experience of the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii. risk monitoring for the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii, a multicenter, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors, posed unexpected challenges. concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias, including rearrest, in the lidoflazine group. to ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue, an in-depth review of data was conducted, outside experts were consulted, and additional data were collected. these efforts suggested possible causes for the problem. existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced, resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates. thus, through an efficient monitoring system, an important problem was uncovered and resolved, allowing the trial to be completed without major changes.
repeat hepatic resection for primary and metastatic carcinoma of the liver. during the last 15 years, 19 patients underwent repeated hepatic resections for malignant lesions of the liver. the first hepatic resection had been performed four to 40 months earlier for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (nine patients) or hepatic metastases (ten patients), eight of which were of colorectal origin. repeat resection was an extensive hepatectomy in six, a segmentectomy in six and a local excision in seven. in one patient, three wedge resections and, finally, hepatic transplantation were subsequently performed after an initial extended right lobectomy. the operative mortality rate was 5.2 per cent. the three year actuarial survival rate was 64 per cent after the second resection.
the internal oblique-iliac crest free flap in composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone, skin, and mucosa. the reconstruction of oromandibular defects following ablative surgery is a challenging undertaking. when the defect involves skin as well as mucosa, the challenge becomes even greater. the internal oblique iliac crest osteomyocutaneous free flap is particularly useful for reconstruction of through-and-through composite defects due to the inclusion of two separate soft-tissue flaps on the same vascular pedicle. we report our experience with this flap in the reconstruction of 10 patients with such defects. the utility, and the limitations of this form of reconstruction are discussed in detail.
doxazosin and atenolol as monotherapy in mild and moderate hypertension: a randomized, parallel study with a three-year follow-up. the efficacy and safety of doxazosin (n = 83) and atenolol (n = 81) have been compared during a 3-year period. doxazosin (mean dose at 3 years, 5.2 mg/day) and atenolol (mean dose, 66.4 mg/day) produced a sustained and overall similar reduction in blood pressure, with no evidence of tolerance. doxazosin decreased mean blood pressure from 158/104 mm hg to 146/90 mm hg; with atenolol the decrease was from 160/103 mm hg to 144/88 mm hg. whereas the reduction in blood pressure with atenolol was paralleled by a significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in heart rate (from a mean of 74 to 60 beats/min), doxazosin produced no clinically meaningful changes in heart rate. in contrast to atenolol, doxazosin reduced triglyceride levels by -5.9% (atenolol +22.5%), increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by +3.7% (atenolol, -11.2%), and increased the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio by +5.9% (atenolol, -10.3%); all of these values were significantly (p less than 0.001) different from those of atenolol-treated patients. doxazosin also reduced the calculated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by -3.3% (atenolol, unchanged). the adverse effect of atenolol on lipid levels apparently negated any beneficial effect of blood pressure reduction, because the calculated coronary heart disease (chd) risk actually increased significantly. in contrast, the reduction in calculated chd risk in the doxazosin group was statistically significant at all points during the study. the safety profile of the drugs was similar. with the added potential of the reduction in the calculated risk of chd among hypertensive patients,doxazosin represents an appropriate first-line drug for the treatment of essential hypertension.
stunned myocardium during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. the "stunned myocardium" is a syndrome of reversible myocardial dysfunction that may be mediated by oxygen-derived free radicals. this phenomenon has been seen in some neonates undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. we performed echocardiograms and measured creatine phosphokinase isoenzymes and lipid peroxide levels in 16 neonates before, during, and after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. infants who developed stunned myocardia by echocardiography did so shortly after initiation of bypass and exhibited concurrent elevations of the mb fraction of creatine phosphokinase. lipid peroxide levels did not simultaneously rise. these data suggest that oxygen-derived free radicals may not cause the stunned myocardium seen in neonates undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms. in a series of 517 operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm from 1971 to 1988 there were 45 cases (8.7%) with an inflammatory aneurysm with a typical thick glistening whitish fibrous layer. almost two-third of the patients had rather severe chronic or acute progressive pain in the abdomen, the back or the flank. unilateral (7) or bilateral (2) hydronephrosis due to ureteral compression occurred in 9 patients (20%). a diagnosis of inflammatory aneurysm was made preoperatively only in 10 patients. in 8 of the 9 patients with hydronephrosis ureterolysis was done, unilaterally (6) or bilaterally (2). after ureterolysis all had complete resolution of the hydronephrosis. preoperative diagnostic methods are excretory urography, showing medial deviation, ultrasonography and ct-scanning of the abdominal aorta. all patients with an inflammatory aneurysm should undergo aortic replacement to prevent rupture and achieve pain relief. ureterolysis in cases of hydronephrosis is strongly recommended and may be performed safely and with excellent results.
senescence of nickel-transformed cells by an x chromosome: possible epigenetic control. transfer of a normal chinese hamster x chromosome (carried in a mouse a9 donor cell line) to a nickel-transformed chinese hamster cell line with an xq chromosome deletion resulted in senescense of these previously immortal cells. at early passages of the a9/cx donor cells, the hamster x chromosome was highly active, inducing senescence in 100% of the colonies obtained after its transfer into the nickel-transformed cells. however, senescence was reduced to 50% when chinese hamster x chromosomes were transferred from later passage a9 cells. full senescing activity of the intact hamster x chromosome was restored by treatment of the donor mouse cells with 5-azacytidine, which induced demethylation of dna. these results suggest that a senescence gene or genes, which may be located on the chinese hamster x chromosome, can be regulated by dna methylation, and that escape from senescence and possibly loss of tumor suppressor gene activity can occur by epigenetic mechanisms.
social networks, health, and emotional well-being among the oldest old in london. a survey of the health and social circumstances of 662 people aged 85 and over, living at home in inner london, was conducted in 1987. a primary aim was to analyze the structure of social support networks of the sample in relation to respondents' emotional well-being and met and unmet needs for practical help. the conceptual and methodological framework that was applied to the study was derived from the theory of social networks. in confirmation of the common assumption that people aged 85+ are different from younger elderly people, as they are the "survivors," high levels of social support and informal help were given to most respondents. although associations were found between social network variables and the provision of informal help, multifactorial analysis showed that health status explained more of the variation in emotional well-being.
donor leukocyte transfusions for treatment of recurrent chronic myelogenous leukemia in marrow transplant patients. three patients with hematologic relapse after bone marrow transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with interferon alpha and transfusion of viable donor buffy coat. all had complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission, which persisted 32 to 91 weeks after treatment. in two patients graft-versus-host disease developed and was treated by immunosuppression. these results are an example of adoptive immunotherapy without cytoreductive chemotherapy or radiotherapy in human chimeras.
granulocytic sarcoma of the colon. granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary tumor consisting of immature cells of the granulocytic series known to occur in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or acute myelogenous leukemia. this tumor may involve nodes, cervix, bone and periosteum, and infrequently the small intestine. granulocytic sarcoma rarely occurs in the colon and has not been previously described endoscopically. we encountered a 73-year-old man with myelodysplastic syndrome who presented with fever, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. colonoscopic evaluation (focal ulceration, friability, and nodularity) was compatible with crohn's disease, although histology showed a dense myeloid cell infiltrate characteristic of granulocytic sarcoma. in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or acute or chronic myelogenous leukemia presenting with diarrhea, abdominal pain, and/or fever, colonoscopy and biopsy are indicated to determine if the colon is affected by granulocytic sarcoma.
primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin. clinicopathologic study of 18 cases. the clinical and pathologic features of primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin in 18 elderly patients are reported. the carcinomas arose in the dermis and subcutaneous tissues, particularly on the head and the upper extremities. one tumor occurred in an irradiated area. using gould's clinicopathologic classification, we have found four trabecular types, eleven intermediate cell types, and two small cell types. one tumor could not be classified. other noteworthy pathologic features were association with invasive squamous cell carcinoma, lentiginous melanocytic hyperplasia, and presence of intratumoral melanocytes. immunoreactivity for cytokeratins (56 kd), neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase, and epithelial membrane antigen was observed. the paranuclear globular staining pattern of cytokeratins and neurofilaments was conspicuous. the ultrastructural features revealed paranuclear intermediate filament aggregates (fibrous bodies), neurosecretory granules, and cell junctions. in two metastatic tumors, high levels of catecholamines were found. the trabecular types were characterized by localized disease and a good prognosis. the patients with the small cell types died of distant metastases. postoperative radiotherapy seemed to reduce the rate of local recurrences.
psychological stress and the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome. the relationship of stress and social support to the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome (fs) was investigated by administration of 4 questionnaire instruments to 28 patients with fs, 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and 28 pain-free normal controls. fs showed higher levels of stress as measured by daily "hassles" than did ra or controls. however, on a measure of major life stress, they reported lower levels. no differences were found between groups with regard to daily "uplifts" or social support. correlations between those measures of stress and social support with their scores on the arthritis impact measurement scale showed that the hassles scale was significantly related to the aims psychological component.
genetic analysis of breast cancer in the cancer and steroid hormone study. the familial risk of breast cancer is investigated in a large population-based, case-control study conducted by the centers for disease control. the data set is based on 4,730 histologically confirmed breast cancer cases aged 20 to 54 years and on 4,688 controls who were frequency matched to cases on the basis of both geographic region and 5-year categories of age, and it includes family histories, obtained through interviews of cases and controls, of breast cancer in mothers and sisters. segregation analysis and goodness-of-fit tests of genetic models provide evidence for the existence of a rare autosomal dominant allele (q = .0033) leading to increased susceptibility to breast cancer. the effect of genotype on the risk of breast cancer is shown to be a function of a woman's age. although, compared with noncarriers, carriers of the allele appear to be at greater risk at all ages, the ratio of age-specific risks is greatest at young ages and declines steadily thereafter. the proportion of cases predicted to carry the allele is highest (36%) among cases aged 20-29 years. this proportion gradually decreases to 1% among cases aged 80 years or older. the cumulative lifetime risk of breast cancer for women who carry the susceptibility allele is predicted to be high, approximately 92%, while the cumulative lifetime risk for noncarriers is estimated to be approximately 10%.
disseminated strongyloidiasis with central nervous system involvement diagnosed antemortem in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and burkitts lymphoma. a 45-year-old man presented with central nervous system involvement as the initial manifestation of disseminated infection with strongyloides stercoralis. several concurrent clinical factors contributed to this event, all related to the patient's immunosuppression, including high-grade lymphoma, corticosteroid therapy, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. this is only the third case of cns involvement in disseminated strongyloidiasis diagnosed antemortem.
multi-institutional evaluation of the tokyo university ventricular assist system. a total of 61 vass developed in tokyo university were evaluated at 21 institutions in the period 1985-1989 for determination of its reliability and effectiveness. the system is comprised of a pneumatic sack-type pump (nippon zeon co.), and its driving console (aishin seiki co.). the stroke volume of the pump is 40 ml and blood contacting surfaces are coated with cardiothane. ages of the patients (pts) ranged from 12-82 yrs (mean 58 yrs). vass were used in the assist mode of lvad (54 pts), rvad (5 pts) and bvad (2 pts). most of the cases (58 pts) included postocardiotomy cardiogenic shock after surgery for ischemic (28 pts), valvular (22 pts), both ischemic and valvular (7 pts) and congenital (1 pt) heart diseases. average duration of the assist ranged from 1 hr-20 days (mean 5.6 dys). the vads could be weaned in 34 cases (56%) and among these, 13 cases (21%) survived to discharge from the hospital. causes of death in cases which could be weaned from the vad included multiple organ failure/due to delayed institution of adequate circulatory support, renal failure and systemic infection. small and minute thrombus formations were noted in 7 cases however, no pump originated thromboembolism were complicated. no troubles of the pump including leakage nor breakage, no mechanical failures of the driving consoles were experienced in any of the cases. thus, it is concluded that the system was proved to be clinically effective and reliable.
function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism. heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease. the mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/c-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue. secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation. in addition, animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity. we also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism. although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment, hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts, even after 9 to 13 months. moreover, similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone (i.e., relative hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatasemia, and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d biosynthesis) were detected. these animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man.
biology of basal cell carcinoma (part i). basal cell carcinoma is the most common malignancy in humans. although rarely metastatic, it is capable of significant local destruction and disfigurement. this two-part article reviews the current understanding of basal cell carcinoma biology. part i examines significant clinical, histologic, and ultrastructural features that relate to invasive potential. genetic characteristics, including tumor growth rate, chromosomal abnormalities, and oncogene presence, are discussed, and expression of important cell and matrix proteins, including keratin, fibronectin, and hla antigens, are reviewed. further topics to be explored in part ii include host immunologic responses, theories of pathogenesis, and valuable second-line therapeutic regimens for treatment of multiple cancers.
endovascular occlusion of vertebral arteries in the treatment of unclippable vertebrobasilar aneurysms. twenty-one patients with aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar circulation underwent unilateral or bilateral endovascular occlusion of the vertebral artery. six patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah), 10 with mass effect, four with mass effect and sah, and one with ischemic symptoms. thirteen patients had good outcomes with complete clinical and angiographic cure. six patients had partial thrombosis of their aneurysms. there was one death and one treatment failure. one patient suffered transient stroke. it is concluded that endovascular occlusion of the vertebral artery following test occlusion is a safe and effective treatment for proximal aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar circulation.
a case report of giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa. giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa is a rare disorder, which is generally asymptomatic and occasionally associated with temporal arteritis. the true clinical significance of this dramatic microscopic finding remains obscure, but arteritis of the uterus and adnexa may be associated with later development of giant cell arteritis elsewhere in the body.
the role of neutrophils and platelets in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke. cerebral ischemia is accompanied by many of the cardinal features of acute inflammation such as neutrophil and platelet activation and accumulation. we sought to determine whether circulating neutrophils or platelets contribute to brain injury in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke that includes a fixed duration of superimposed systemic hypotension. we randomized 18 rabbits to receive either antineutrophil antiserum (n = 6), antiplatelet antiserum (n = 5), or nonimmune serum (n = 7). we assessed brain ischemia by measuring cerebral blood flow, intracranial pressure, and infarct size. following the intracarotid administration of an autologous clot, cerebral blood flow in all groups fell to less than 5 ml/100 g/min during induced hypotension. after restoration of baseline blood pressure, mean cerebral blood flow in neutropenic animals recovered to 20-30 ml/100 g/min while that in control and thrombocytopenic rabbits remained at less than 10 ml/100 g/min. intracranial pressure in control animals rose steadily to a final value of 241% of baseline, while a much smaller increase (148% of baseline) was noted in the thrombocytopenic group; no change from baseline was evident in the neutropenic group. infarct size was significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced in the neutropenic group but not in the thrombocytopenic group. these results suggest that neutrophils may be important contributors to ischemia-induced brain injury whereas the role of platelets is more subtle.
expression of abh blood group antigens, ulex europaeus agglutinin i, and type iv collagen in the sinusoids of hepatocellular carcinoma. the expression of blood group antigens (a, b, h, lewis(a) and lewis(b)), ulex europaeus agglutinin i (uea-i), factor viii-related antigen, and type iv collagen on the sinusoids was examined immunohistochemically in 15 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas (hcc), 11 cases of cirrhosis, 12 cases of chronic active hepatitis, and in a control sample of 16 normal livers. sinusoidal endothelial cells of hcc characteristically showed a diffuse and strong immunoreactivity to abh blood group antigens in the specimen with a comparable abo blood group. the sinusoidal endothelial cells were also diffusely and strongly positive for uea-i receptors. in contrast, in cirrhosis and chronic active hepatitis a few sinusoidal endothelial cells were positive for abh blood group antigens and uea-i receptors. in normal livers, only a few sinusoidal endothelial cells were positive for abh blood group antigens and uea-1 receptors. tests for factor viii-related antigen and lewis blood group antigens were almost negative on sinusoidal endothelial cells. although type iv collagen was distributed diffusely in the space of disse in these four groups, its expression was strongest in hcc. blood vessels of portal tracts and fibrous septa were positive for abh blood group antigens, uea-1 receptors, factor viii-related antigen, and type iv collagen, but negative for lewis blood group antigens. these findings suggest that some sinusoidal endothelial cells undergo "capillarization" in cirrhosis and chronic active hepatitis, and that the majority of sinusoidal endothelial cells of hcc have phenotypic characteristics of capillaries.
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas. a case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported. attention is directed to this syndrome because, although rare, it is usually associated with oral lesions. the blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules.
prognostic indicators for acute low-back pain. chart review was conducted on a 6-month sample of patients with low-back to identify outcome indicators in acute low-back pain. two hundred seven episodes were identified. extracted material included the age, sex, past history, time to presentation, occupation, suggested precipitating event of injury, and estimated difficulty of job tasks. symptoms and findings presentation were also recorded. all cases were work-related, and the outcome indicator was time loss from work. analysis of variance showed significant associations in time loss from work with factors including the occupation, age, job difficulty, past history, symptoms, examination, and diagnosis on presentation.
stance duration under sensory conflict conditions in patients with hemiplegia. standing balance was evaluated in ten subjects with hemiplegia using a sensory organization balance test (sot). the sot is a timed balance test which evaluates somatosensory, visual, and vestibular function for maintenance of upright posture. the duration of bilateral stance was assessed using combinations of three visual and two support surface conditions. stance time was measured with eyes open, eyes closed, and with each patient wearing a visual dome to produce inaccurate visual information. the support surface conditions involved stance on a hard flat floor followed by attempted stance on a compliant foam surface. visual deprivation or visual conflict conditions did not cause a loss of balance when stance was performed on a stable surface. however, a lower stance duration was found when patients stood on a compliant surface (p less than .05). visual compensation was evident during the compliant-surface condition because stance duration showed the greatest reductions with eyes closed and with the visual dome. these findings suggest that the ability to integrate somatosensory information from the lower extremities for balance is compromised after cerebrovascular disease. the implications for diagnosing the specific cause of balance dysfunction and for developing sensory-specific therapeutic interventions are discussed.
a phosphatase activity present in peripheral blood myeloid cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients but not normal individuals alters nuclear protein binding to transcriptional enhancers of interferon-inducible genes. cytoplasmic protein from peripheral blood myeloid cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) patients altered the electrophoretic mobility of complexes formed between nuclear proteins and interferon-inducible transcriptional enhancers. immature myeloid marrow cells (blasts and promyelocytes) have a higher level of this activity than do mature myeloid marrow cells (bands and polys). this activity, which is not detectable in the peripheral blood cells of normal individuals, is at least 50-fold higher in cml marrow blasts and promyelocytes than that found in marrow blasts and promyelocytes of normal individuals. this activity was inhibited by in vivo incubation of immature myeloid cells with the phosphatase inhibitor, sodium orthovanadate (0.2 mm), and by adding orthovanadate (20 mm) directly to cytoplasmic proteins of myeloid cells. interferon-alpha (1,000 u/ml) reduced the effects of the cml myeloid cell cytoplasmic protein on the electrophoretic mobility of nuclear protein-dna complexes. these data suggest that a unique phosphatase may be involved in the abnormalities in cml which are modulated by interferon-alpha.
hemolytic anemia associated with the use of omeprazole. omeprazole is the first drug designed to block the final step in the acid secretory process within the parietal cell. it has been shown to be extremely effective in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease, reflux esophagitis, and the zollinger-ellison syndrome. although clinical experience with omeprazole is still limited, many controlled studies have established the short-term safety of this drug. we report the first case of a serious short-term adverse reaction with the use of omeprazole: hemolytic anemia. the patient developed weakness, lethargy, and shortness of breath 2 days after starting therapy with omeprazole. two weeks after the initiation of therapy, her hematocrit had decreased from 44.1% to 20.4%, and she had a positive direct coombs antiglobulin test and an elevated indirect bilirubin. after she discontinued the omeprazole, her hemoglobin and hematocrit gradually returned to normal. the mechanism by which omeprazole caused the patient's hemolytic anemia is uncertain, but physicians should be alerted to this possible adverse effect.
prospective study of quality of life before and after coronary artery bypass grafting objectives--measurement of changes in patients' perceptions of how differing states of health affect their lives and determination of the ability of preoperative variables to predict outcome after coronary artery bypass grafting. design--prospective study with completion of questionnaires before coronary artery bypass grafting and at three months, one year, and five years afterwards. setting--regional cardiothoracic centre. patients--100 male patients all aged below 60 at the time of operation, who were patients of two cardiothoracic surgeons. main outcome measures--patients' assessment of their health state in terms of functional capacity and aspects of distress, according to the nottingham health profile and outcome of operation in terms of changes in symptoms, working life, and daily activities determined by self completed study questionnaires before operation and at three and six months afterwards. results--intermediate one year results are reported. the differences between the nottingham health profile scores before operation and at three months afterwards were significantly different (p less than 0.01), indicating an appreciable improvement in general health state, and at one year compared favourably with those from a normal male population. analysis of responses to the study questionnaire showed that 65 of 89 patients (73%) were working at one year after operation with a further seven (8%) maintaining that they were fit to work but unable to find employment. the proportion of patients complaining of chest pain fell from 90% (88/98) before grafting to 19% (17/89) at one year after coronary artery bypass grafting, when 91% (81/89) patients maintained that their condition was either completely better or definitely improved. the significant positive factors affecting return to work and home activities were working before operation, short wait for operation, absence of breathlessness, and low physical mobility score in the nottingham health profile (all p less than 0.001). conclusions--improvements were evident in general health state, symptoms, and activity at three months and one year after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. interventions likely to influence outcomes included reduction in waiting times for operation; rehabilitation initiatives; and more attention to the quality of information given to patients, their relatives, and the community.
retro-orbicularis oculus fat (roof) resection in aesthetic blepharoplasty: a 6-year study in 63 patients sixty-three nonconsecutive patients have undergone resection of the retro-orbicularis oculus fat (roof) in conjunction with aesthetic blepharoplasty. in these patients, a consistent and useful ability to soften and flatten heaviness and bulkiness in the lateral upper orbital region was seen. two patients developed postoperative hematoma, and two different patients had transient dry-eye symptoms following blepharoplasty. twenty percent of patients had a transient degree of numbness in the lateral supraorbital nerve region, and all patients noted some transient numbness over the lateral upper brow region. no patient demonstrated significant paralysis of the orbicularis oculus or corrugator muscle. from this experience, retro-orbicularis oculus fat resection would appear to be a useful adjunct to standard blepharoplasty techniques in selected patients.
cemented total knee arthroplasty for gonarthrosis in patients 55 years old or younger. the results of 68 cemented total knee arthroplasties (tkas) in 50 patients with gonarthrosis who were 55 years old or younger at the time of surgery were reviewed. these patients were operated on between 1979 and 1987 and were followed for an average of 6.2 years. the average age of the patients was 50 years. patients were evaluated by the hospital for special surgery knee score. the average preoperative score was 53, and the average follow-up score was 90. overall, 55 tkas were rated as excellent and 13 as good. using the knee rating score advocated by the knee society, the average postoperative score was 92 for pain and 84 for function. there were four successful reoperations for patellar component loosening, all in metal-backed patellae. the femoral and tibial components in these patients were intact, and at the follow-up period, two knees were rated as excellent and two as good. detailed roentgenographic evaluation demonstrated that 20% of tibial components had radiolucencies in at least one zone on the anteroposterior roentgenogram and in 11% on the lateral roentgenogram. femoral radiolucencies occurred in only 2% of knees. patellar radiolucencies in one or more zones occurred in 20% of knees that had not had patellar revision. no complete or progressive radiolucencies at the bone-cement interface were noted for any component, and no components were considered to be roentgenographically loose. cemented tkas can achieve excellent long-term results in patients younger than 55 years old with gonarthrosis of the knee. these results compare with those obtained in published reports on older age groups.
periurethral colonic-type polyp simulating urethral caruncle. a case report. a 50-year-old, black woman presented with a 1-cm, polypoid lesion on the posterior edge of the urethral meatus that had the gross appearance of a urethral caruncle. the histologic features, however, revealed a superficially ulcerated lesion composed of colonic-type mucosal glands with focal regenerative atypia in response to inflammation. a similar histologic pattern is also found in so-called solitary rectal ulcer syndrome and inflammatory cloacogenic polyps arising in the anorectal area. based upon an english-language literature review, this case appears to be the second reported one of an intestinal-type polyp in this location. the patient had no further problems after excisional biopsy.
impaired polymorphonuclear leucocyte function in patients undergoing hepatectomy: adenylate energy charge and superoxide anion production in relation to hepatic mitochondrial redox state. patients undergoing hepatectomy have an increased susceptibility to infection. we therefore studied the energy metabolism of the polymorphonuclear leucocyte (pmn), focusing on energy charge and function, especially superoxide anion (o2-) generation, in relation to the hepatic mitochondrial redox state. by labelling the pmn adenine nucleotide pool with radioactive adenine and by superoxide dismutase-inhibitable reduction of ferricytochrome c, the energy charge and o2- production was measured in 18 patients with hepatoma (non-cirrhotic, seven; cirrhotic, 11) undergoing hepatectomy. their arterial ketone body ratios (kbrs), reflecting the hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were above 0.7 before operation. after surgery, the 18 patients were divided into two groups: group a, kbr greater than 0.7, n = 10; and group b, kbr less than 0.7, n = 8. the energy charge and o2- release in group b decreased significantly from preoperative values (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01 respectively) and when compared with group a (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 respectively). these results suggest that impaired hepatic energy metabolism (kbr less than 0.7) in hepatectomized patients leads to impaired energy charge and o2- production in the pmns.
acute porphyria presenting with hyperamylasemia. an elevation of serum amylase and lipase has not been reported previously to occur with porphyria. in this report, we describe a patient who presented with the clinical and laboratory picture of pancreatitis: elevated amylase, lipase, amylase-creatinine clearance ratio, and with abdominal pain. only after extensive evaluation, was the patient found to have porphyria. on two separate occasions, with hematin therapy, her serum amylase decreased, as did her clinical symptoms of porphyria and her urinary quantitative porphyrins. this suggests an association between elevation of the serum amylase and lipase with acute porphyria. moreover, this association can lead to delay in establishing the diagnosis of acute porphyria.
clear cell sarcomas and metastatic soft tissue melanomas. a flow cytometric comparison and prognostic implications. eleven soft tissue clear cell sarcomas (ccs) were examined flow cytometrically for their dna content with a correlation of the dna with the patients' survival. diploidy was expressed in six sarcomas and it conferred a longer survival (mean, 68.6 months) than aneuploid sarcomas (mean, 8.2 months). for comparison, 13 metastases to soft tissues from cutaneous melanomas were assessed by flow cytometric study. the aneuploid neoplasms of both entities were categorized into low and high degree based on extent of the dna index (di). low degree was defined by a di of less than or equal to 1.5 and high degree by a di of greater than 1.5. significant differences in dna content between ccs and metastatic melanomas were observed. melanomas were preponderantly aneuploid (11/13) of high degree (mean di, 1.7) whereas ccs manifested more diploidy (six of 11) and their aneuploidy was of a low degree (mean di, 1.2; p = 0.001). clear cell sarcomas and melanomas were also examined for their immunoreactivity to s-100 protein and hmb-45 antigen. all ccs reacted with s-100 protein and hmb-45. in ccs the reactions were diffuse for both in six tumors, diffuse with hmb-45 and moderate to s-100 protein in three tumors and diffuse with s-100 and moderate with hmb-45 in two tumors. all melanomas reacted diffusely to s-100 protein except for one heavily pigmented tumor which reacted only focally. the reaction to hmb-45 was diffuse in nine and focal in three melanomas. these data suggest that measurements of dna content in ccs may be valuable in predicting clinical outcome and that there are quantitative differences in dna content between ccs and metastatic melanoma in soft tissues.
ionic channels, cholinergic mechanisms, and recovery of sensorimotor function after neocortical infarcts in rats. unilateral photochemical infarcts were produced in the hind limb sensorimotor neocortex of 243 rats by intravenous injection of the fluorescein derivative rose bengal and focal illumination of the intact skull surface. facial contact stimuli governed the degree and recovery rate of contralateral tactile/proprioceptive forelimb placing reactions. contralateral forelimb placing recovered, whereas hind limb placing was resistant to recovery. infarcted rats displayed marked recovery of spontaneous limb usage (beam traversing). however, deficits in isolated tactile/proprioceptive hind limb placing reactions endured. posttreatment with the class iv calcium antagonist flunarizine after neocortical infarction protected sensorimotor function in a dose-dependent manner. this protective effect may be due to the peculiar ionic channel blocking profile of flunarizine. scopolamine hydrobromide reinstated contralateral placing errors in infarcted rats at a dosage that did not affect neurologically intact rats. the cognitive enhancer sabeluzole, a novel benzothiazol derivative, dose-dependently blocked the anticholinergic-induced deterioration of a sensorimotor deficit in rats.
combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery. the perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique. a group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone (ga), while in the group of 77 remaining patients, a combined epidural and general anesthesia (epi-ga) was employed. the two groups were similar in regards to age, medical risk factors, preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function, and type of surgical reconstruction. there was no significant difference in the anesthetic, operative time, or operative fluid requirements between the two groups. there was a lower rate pressure product in the epi-ga group during aortic cross clamping (p less than 0.05). more patients in the ga group required a prolonged ventilatory support (p less than 0.05) and a high parenteral narcotic administration (p less than 0.025) during the first 48 hours. while the mortality rate was similar for the two groups (3.0% for ga group vs 5.2% for epi-ga group), there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the ga group (7.6%) compared to the epi-ga group (2.6%). by facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period, epi-ga may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction.
functional chiral asymmetry in descending thoracic aorta to determine whether rotational blood flow or chiral asymmetry exists in the human descending thoracic aorta, we established the ability of color doppler ultrasound to detect rotational flow in a tornado tube model of a vortex descending fluid column. in a model of the human aortic arch with a pulse duplicator, color doppler was then used to demonstrate that rotational flow occurs first in the transverse arch and then in the proximal descending thoracic aorta. with the use of color doppler esophageal echocardiography, 53 patients (age range, 25-78 years; mean age, 56.4 years) were prospectively examined for rotational flow in the descending thoracic aorta. at 10 cm superior to retro-left ventricular position, 22 of 38 patients (58%) revealed rotational flow with obvious diastolic counterclockwise rotation but less obvious systolic clockwise rotation. at 5 cm superior to retro-left ventricular position, 29 of 46 patients (63%) revealed rotational flow with a tendency toward systolic clockwise and diastolic counterclockwise rotation. at the retro-left ventricular position, 47 of 53 patients (89%) revealed rotational flow, usually of a clockwise direction, occurring in systole. our data suggest that aortic flow is not purely pulsatile and axial but has a rotational component. rotational flow begins in the aortic arch and is carried through to the descending thoracic aorta, where flow is chirally asymmetric with systolic clockwise and diastolic counterclockwise components. these data demonstrate an aortic rotational flow component that may have physiological implications for organ perfusion.
effect of hydrocele on testis and spermatogenesis. one hundred and twenty cases of big unilateral hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis have been studied to ascertain the effect on the structure and function of the testis, taking the normal side as control. there was no pressure effect from the hydrocele on the structure of the testis in 70 per cent, a flattening of testis in 22 per cent, and atrophy of testis in 8 per cent of cases. there was partial arrest of spermatogenesis in 10 per cent and total arrest of spermatogenesis in 8 per cent of cases. the remaining 82 per cent showed normal spermatogenesis.
resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire objective--to investigate the results of resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire. design--study of all such attempts at resuscitation over 32 months, based on the standard report form for each call made by the ambulance staff and the electrocardiogram that showed the initial rhythm in each patient. setting--area covered by west yorkshire ambulance service. subjects--1196 patients with cardiac arrests attended by 29 ambulance staff with extended training. main outcome measure--result of resuscitation. results--the initial rhythm was asystole or electromechanical dissociation in 740 patients and ventricular fibrillation in 456 patients; overall 65 patients survived to be discharged from hospital. sixty four of the 456 patients in whom ventricular fibrillation was the initial rhythm recorded, and 46 in whom ventricular fibrillation persisted after the ambulance staff arrived, survived. only one of the 740 patients who initially had asystole or electromechanical dissociation survived. factors associated with a greater chance of ventricular fibrillation occurring were: age less than 71, the arrest being witnessed by a bystander, resuscitation by a bystander, the arrest occurring in a public place, and a response time by the ambulance staff of less than six minutes. for patients found in ventricular fibrillation a shorter response time was associated with improved survival but resuscitation by a bystander was not. additional skills learnt during extended training were used for 51 of the 65 patients who survived. conclusions--ambulance staff with extended training can save the lives of patients with cardiac arrest due to fibrillation, though asystole and electromechanical dissociation have a poor prognosis and should perhaps receive little attention during extended training.
clinical and electrophysiologic determinants, treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurring late after myocardial infarction to assess the clinical and electrophysiologic determinants, treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after myocardial infarction, a total of 108 patients (mean age 61 +/- 10 years) were studied. thirty-two patients (group i) had sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias 8 to 60 days (mean 13 +/- 9) after acute myocardial infarction. the remaining 76 patients (group ii), who served as a control group, had no sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias less than or equal to 60 days after infarction. the most significant independent determinants of sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after infarction were the presence of late potentials (chi square = 16.07, p = 0.0001), defined as an abnormal signal-averaged qrs complex in association with an abnormal root-mean-square voltage in the terminal 40 ms of the qrs complex, and an abnormal ejection fraction of less than 40% (chi square = 10.09, p = 0.001). sustained ventricular tachycardia was induced in 27 (96%) of 28 group i patients. among the 32 patients in group i, antitachycardia therapy included antiarrhythmic drug therapy as the sole preventive measure in 14 (44%); map-guided surgery or coronary artery bypass surgery, or both, in 14 (44%) and the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator in 4 (12%). the arrhythmias were rendered noninducible in 83% of patients after map-guided surgery and in 41% after drug therapy. during a follow-up period of 20 +/- 14 months, five group i patients (15%) had an arrhythmic event and four (9.3%) had a cardiac-related death. all five patients who had an arrhythmic event were receiving antiarrhythmic drug therapy.
reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese. a university experience. patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications. to evaluate outcome following revisional procedures, we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at ucla between april 1986 and may 1989. twenty-five women (78%) and 7 men (22%) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations (2.4 per patient) for complications of prior obesity surgery. indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements (12 patients) and weight-related problems (11 patients). in contrast, indications for the patients' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction (41%), intra-abdominal sepsis (12%), and gastrointestinal bleeding (6%). following initial revision, 23 patients (71.8%) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died (12.5%). while initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems, final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent, life-threatening complications. revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered, and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits.
experimental studies of the physiologic properties of technetium-99m isonitriles. recently, efforts have been directed at the development of technetium-99m (tc-99m)-labeled isonitrile compounds for assessment of regional perfusion and viability after experimental myocardial infarction or ischemia. one of the most promising of these agents, tc-99m sestamibi, has undergone rather extensive laboratory investigation. like thallium-201 (tl-201), the uptake of tc-99m sestamibi in myocardial tissue is proportional to myocardial blood flow after intravenous injection. similar to other diffusible indicators, tc-99m sestamibi underestimates blood flow at high flow rates. in low flow regions, the myocardial uptake of this agent is higher relative to nonischemic uptake than is microsphere-determined blood flow. this is attributed to increased extraction at low flows. this first-pass myocardial extraction fraction for tc-99m sestamibi is less than that for tl-201. however, tc-99m sestamibi has a higher parenchymal cell permeability and higher volume of distribution than t;-201. tc-99m sestamibi shows minimal "delayed redistribution" after initial intravenous administration. uptake of tc-99m sestamibi is not altered by myocardial "stunning" or with ischemic dysfunction produced by sustained low coronary flow. the uptake of the isonitrile is still proportional to blood flow in these situations. in intact animal models, myocardial uptake of tc-99m sestamibi during coronary occlusion delineates the in vivo area at risk. when tc-99m sestamibi is administered after reperfusion following variable periods of preceding coronary occlusion, tc-99m sestamibi uptake delineates the area of viable myocardium that is salvaged and not simply the degree of reflow. this suggests that serial tc-99m sestamibi imaging might be useful in assessing the efficacy of coronary reperfusion after thrombolytic therapy.
risks of intestinal anastomoses in crohn's disease. six hundred fifty-eight intestinal anastomoses in 429 operations for crohn's disease were studied prospectively during an 8-year period to detect variables connected with perioperative morbidity. postoperative complications occurred in 9.7% of the patients, 4% had to be reoperated on, and the overall mortality rate was 0.5%. in multivariate analysis by stepwise logistic regression, the only variable significantly (p = 0.03) associated with overall rate of complications was long-term corticosteroid therapy. serious complications were more common in cases of intra-abdominal abscesses (p = 0.01) and preoperative steroid medication (p = 0.03). the combination of both of these risk factors increased the rate of reoperations from 0.6% (no steroids, no abscess) to 16% (steroids and abscess). no significant association with postoperative complications could be found for age, sex, duration of disease, previous operations, nutritional status, emergency surgery, extent of disease, type, number, and localization of anastomoses, presence of proximal ileo-/colostomy, or histologically inflamed margins of resection.
methylene iodide poisoning. a 20-month-old girl ingested a maximum of 25 ml of pure methylene iodide. within two hours, the patient exhibited lethargy and incoordination and vomited. an abdominal radiograph demonstrated the radiopaque material in the gut. in vivo conversion to carbon monoxide was documented with a peak carboxyhemoglobin level of 14.2% reached at 11 hours after ingestion. two days after ingestion, evidence of hepatotoxicity was apparent, and fulminant hepatic failure quickly ensued. despite aggressive supportive care and transfer to a liver transplant center, the patient died nine days after ingestion. methylene iodide ingestion has not been previously reported in human beings. this case verifies that this substance is a potent hepatotoxin, is metabolized to carbon monoxide in vivo, is radiopaque, and may cause bone marrow suppression.
carbon tetrachloride-induced alterations of hepatic calmodulin and free calcium levels in rats pretreated with chlordecone. calmodulin, a low molecular weight ca2+ binding protein, regulates a large number of cell activities including cell division. previous studies from our laboratory indicated excessive accumulation of ca2+ in hepatocytes succeeded by rapid glycogen breakdown and suppressed cell division in rats receiving ccl4 after previous dietary exposure to 10 ppm chlordecone. since calmodulin plays a major role in ca2(+)-regulated events and has been reported to be localized in mitotic apparatus during cell division, we have assessed subcellular distribution of calmodulin and estimated cytosolic phosphorylase a to indicate cytosolic free ca2+ levels in livers of rats fed 0 ppm or 10 ppm (chlordecone) in the diet for 15 days before ccl4 (100 microliters/kg) administration to understand the role of ca2(+)-calmodulin in chlordecone + ccl4 toxicity. hepatotoxicity was assessed by determining serum ast and alt succeeded by histopathological observations of liver sections. serum aminotransferases were significantly elevated 6 hr after ccl4 administration to normal rats and returned to control level by 24 hr. however, serum ast and alt elevations were severalfold higher, and progressive increase was observed starting 4 hr after ccl4 administration to chlordecone rats. histopathological observations of liver sections for necrotic, swollen and lipid-laden cells provided findings commensurate with the serum enzyme data. these data indicate that normal rats do recover from ccl4 hepatotoxicity. however, the ccl4 hepatotoxicity is progressive in chlordecone rats without recovery. in normal rats, ccl4 administration resulted in a slight increase in phosphorylase a starting at 6 hr.
the future of nephrology. the cellular and molecular age of nephrology has dawned and the future is remarkably exciting. the successful attack on the major causes of renal disease, including genetic diseases, glomerulonephritis, diabetes, vasculitis, acute renal failure, and hypertension, will necessitate improved knowledge about pathogenesis. this new knowledge will allow early detection and target-specific therapies, the array of which is only limited by our imagination. the challenge to be an active player in this exciting future as a physician-scientist in the field of nephrology is indeed a rare opportunity.
predictors of postoperative ventricular dysrhythmias: a multivariate study. postoperative ventricular dysrhythmias were studied to document their incidence after coronary bypass grafting and to identify risk factors for their development with the hope of finding a subgroup of patients who might benefit from postoperative, prophylactic drug therapy. one-hundred-nine patients who were undergoing urgent or elective coronary bypass grafting were studied, prospectively. twenty-five of 109 patients (23%) developed significant postoperative ventricular dysrhythmias that required counter-shock or drug intervention. seven of eight instances of sustained ventricular tachycardia, the most serious dysrhythmia, occurred within 36 hours of operation. there was no postoperative mortality related to these dysrhythmias. serious postoperative complications, such as stroke, hemorrhage, or myocardial infarction, were decreased in patients with ventricular dysrhythmias versus those without (8% versus 16%, p = 0.053 for the fisher's exact test statistic). univariate statistical analysis was performed using 15 patient variables and revealed that advanced age (p = 0.008 for the unpaired t test), failure to use an internal mammary artery conduit (p = 0.03 for the two-tailed fisher's exact test), and development of postoperative atrial dysrhythmias (p = 0.02 for the two-tailed fisher's exact test) were significantly more common in patients with postoperative ventricular dysrhythmias. variables such as previous myocardial infarction, ejection fraction less than 50%, prolonged operative time, perioperative myocardial infarction, or fewer number of vessels bypassed were not significantly increased in patients with dysrhythmias (the statistical power for these "negative" results was greater than 0.8).
cancer registry problems in classifying invasive bladder cancer. a slide review of diagnostic pathologic tissue obtained from 364 bladder cancer cases, identified through the iowa surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (seer) program in 1983, classified 97 (26.6%) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers. these findings contrasted sharply with the iowa seer program classification that coded 289 (79.4%) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers. these results were validated further by the hazard ratio of 4.54 (95% confidence interval, 2.57 to 8.03) among invasive relative to noninvasive bladder cancer cases when the slide review findings were used. in contrast, the hazard ratio was only 1.70 (95% confidence interval, 0.76 to 3.79) when the iowa seer program findings were used. the traditional method used by the national cancer institute's seer program to deal with this problem is described and its implications are discussed.
secretin provocation test in the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome. the secretin stimulation test has become the preferred provocative test in suspected cases of zollinger-ellison syndrome. a pure secretin preparation, a gastrin-specific radioimmunoassay, and an appropriate sampling sequence are important for the proper interpretation of this test. gastric acid analysis is necessary in the assessment of hypergastrinemia to confirm acid hypersecretion and exclude achlorhydria. when properly performed and interpreted, the secretin provocation test offers a safe, expeditious, and reliable means of evaluating patients with hypergastrinemia.
total knee arthroplasty in rheumatoid arthritis. a comparison of the polycentric and total condylar prostheses. from 1971 to 1985, 393 total knee arthroplasties (tkas) were performed in patients for rheumatoid arthritis. of these, 112 used polycentric prostheses and 131 used total condylar prostheses. one hundred seven of the patients with polycentric prostheses and 102 of the patients with total condylar prostheses were followed for a minimum of two years (average, 61 and 55 months, respectively). at the time of the latest examination, nine knees with polycentric prostheses required revision surgery: six for tibial component loosening and instability and three for patellofemoral pain. five knees with total condylar prostheses required revision: one for chronic instability, one for a late posttraumatic patellar fracture, and three for late hematogenous infections. the total condylar prostheses with patellar resurfacing had better scores for pain (8.5 points) than the polycentric prosthesis without patellofemoral resurfacing (7.0 points). the total condylar prosthesis appeared more durable in terms of fixation, with no evidence of aseptic loosening of femoral or tibial components noted in this series thus far.
beta blockers and the primary prevention of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with high blood pressure. a population-based, case-control study was conducted to determine whether beta blockers, used for the treatment of high blood pressure, prevent first events of coronary heart disease. all study subjects were health-maintenance organization enrollees with pharmacologically treated hypertension. patients presented in 1982 to 1984 with new coronary heart disease, and control subjects were a probability sample of eligible hypertensive enrollees free of coronary heart disease. with the investigators blind to case-control status, the subjects' medical records were reviewed for other coronary risk factors, and the health-maintenance organization's computerized pharmacy database was used to ascertain the use of beta blockers. a larger proportion of controls than cases were using beta blockers. this difference was confined to the subgroup with nonfatal myocardial infarctions. for current use, the estimated relative risk for nonfatal myocardial infarction was 0.62 (95% confidence interval, 0.39 to 0.99). among current users of beta blockers, higher doses conferred greater protection. past use and total lifetime intake of beta blockers were only weakly associated with case-control status. the current use of beta blockers may prevent first events of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with high blood pressure.
rate of oxyhemoglobin desaturation in obstructive versus nonobstructive apnea. preapneic thoracic gas volume (vtg), arterial saturation (sao2), and mixed venous oxygen saturation (svo2), have been shown to influence the rate of sao2 fall (dsao2/dt) during apnea. we asked the following question: does tissue oxygen consumption (tvo2) affect the dsao2/dt during apnea? we attempted to answer this question by comparing dsao2/dt during obstructive apneas (high tvo2) with dsao2/dt during nonobstructive apneas (low tvo2) in six adult baboons. fiberoptic central venous and arterial catheters were used for continuous monitoring of svo2, sao2, and cardiac output. a sapphire-bearing turbine monitored minute ventilation and airflow cessation. a respitrace and esophageal pressures were used to assess relative differences in vtg. obstructive apneas (30, 45, and 60-s) were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at end-expiration. nonobstructive apneas were created by paralyzing the animals with atracurium and interrupting ventilation for periods equivalent to those of the obstructed apneas. the ventilator was adjusted to duplicate the respiratory rate, tidal volume, and relative vtg of the spontaneously breathing animal. mean tvo2 during spontaneous breathing was 110 ml/min (fick method) and decreased to 90 ml/min during paralysis (p less than 0.05). the dsao2/dt for the three apnea durations (mean, all animals), obstructive versus nonobstructed were: 0.85 and 0.74%/s (n = 6), 0.87 and 0.75%/s (n = 6), and 0.60 and 0.48%/s (n = 4), respectively. the dsao2/dt was significantly lower during the nonobstructive apneas. we conclude that differences in vo2 during apnea may affect the dsao2/dt and that for the same duration apnea, central apneas may show less desaturation than obstructive apneas where vigorous muscular efforts at overcoming obstruction are common.
activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke. the hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood, and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism. we analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls. the levels of antithrombin iii, protein c, and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.001, 0.02, and 0.05, respectively). in contrast, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.01 and 0.001, respectively). at the time of admission, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization (one with prodromal embolism, three with intracardiac thrombi, and four with recurrent embolization) were 2.8 and 3.5 times, respectively, higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation. the lowest concentration of crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission. our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage.
endemic kaposi's sarcoma in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-seronegative persons: demonstration of retrovirus-like particles in cutaneous lesions. in 1984, greek physicians reported on the clustering of cases of kaposi's sarcoma (ks) on the peloponnesus peninsula. to gain more insight into its pathogenesis, we studied the seroepidemiologic and clinicopathologic characteristics of 12 greek ks patients (eight male/four female) five of whom were residents of an endemic area on the peloponnesus. these patients were in good general health with ages ranging from 48 to 80 years, had no clinical signs of immunodeficiency, and combined the features of both classic and epidemic ks in that they displayed not only involvement of acral areas but also widespread mucocutaneous lesions. routine laboratory data were within normal limits; no patient had htlv-1 and hiv-1/2 antibodies, but all patients had antibodies to several herpesviruses. the histopathology was characteristic of ks with the peculiar feature of a dense infiltrate composed predominantly of cd4+ t lymphocytes. immunoenzymatic/morphologic studies of the ks cells were consistent with their origin from lymphatic endothelium. outstanding ultrastructural findings were tubuloreticular structures and cylindrical confronting cisternae, structures that are indicative of an ongoing viral infection. indeed, extensive electronmicroscopic studies resulted in the detection of retrovirus-like particles in close association to ks cells in five of 12 patients. this in situ observation opens the possibility that this retro-virus contributes to ks development.
latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty in the treatment of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. stimulated skeletal muscle grafts have been proposed as a means to reinforce ventricular wall in the treatment of severe myocardial failure. latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty was performed in 11 patients with advanced heart failure due to cardiomyopathy who were in new york heart association (nyha) class iii or iv despite maximal medical therapy. there were no operative deaths. eight patients were followed for a mean of 10.8 months. two patients remain in muscle conditioning protocol. one patient died with latissimus dorsi ischemia and congestive heart failure. four of the eight patients in long-term follow-up are in nyha class i, three in class ii, and one in class iii. at 3 months of follow-up, rest radioisotopic left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 20.5 +/- 3.6% to 26.8 +/- 8.1% (p less than 0.01). doppler-echocardiography demonstrated that left ventricular segmental wall shortening improved from 11.3 +/- 2.5% to 16.5 +/- 3.9% (p less than 0.01) and left ventricular stroke volume from 22.9 +/- 4.6 to 33.1 +/- 10 ml (p less than 0.01). cardiopulmonary exercise test showed that maximal oxygen consumption during treadmill test increased from 14.8 +/- 3.7 to 18.2 +/- 3.3 ml/kg.min (p less than 0.05). at 6 months of follow-up, all the above values remained essentially unchanged. furthermore, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia was abolished without specific medical therapy in four patients. thus, cardiomyoplasty improves left ventricular function, reverses congestive heart failure, and may improve long-term survival in severe cardiomyopathies.
total occlusion of the left main coronary artery in a young woman with survival: a case report. the total occlusion of the left main coronary artery (lmca) is rare, and the survival depends on the existence of collateral circulation. the author presents a case of total occlusion of the left main coronary artery with survival in a young woman because he thinks this is a very rare case, owing to the sex and age of the patient.
pathophysiological aspects of edema formation in diabetic nephropathy. the present study was undertaken to evaluate some pathophysiological mechanisms of edema formation in diabetic nephropathy. sixty-three subjects were investigated: 9 normal subjects (i), 9 normoalbuminuric type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic patients (ii), 15 microalbuminuric type 1 diabetic patients (iii), 16 type 1 diabetic patients with nephropathy without edema (iv), and 14 type 1 diabetic patients with nephropathy and edema (v). plasma volume (125i-albumin), glomerular filtration rate and extracellular fluid volume (51cr-edta) were measured. colloid osmotic pressure and albumin concentration were measured in plasma and in subcutaneous interstitial fluid (suction blister technique). the ratio between plasma volume and interstitial fluid volume was reduced in patients with edema compared with group 1 (p less than 0.05). the interstitial colloid osmotic pressure (mm hg) was significantly reduced (p less than 0.05) in group v compared with the other groups (v: 4.3 +/- 1.1, i: 7.9 +/- 1.7, ii: 7.5 +/- 1.8, iii: 6.6 +/- 1.5, iv: 6.6 +/- 1.1), but the transcapillary colloid osmotic gradient in patients with edema was comparable with the remaining subjects. the ratio between interstitial and plasma albumin concentration was significantly reduced in group v compared with groups i and ii (v: 0.31 +/- 0.1, i: 0.43 +/- 0.06, ii: 0.44 +/- 0.06; p less than 0.01; iii: 0.41 +/- 0.07, iv: 0.41 +/- 0.08). this reduction was mainly due to enhanced lymph flow. the wash-down of subcutaneous interstitial protein indicated increased capillary filtration, but at the same time limited the increase in net filtration pressure and thereby prevented progressive edema formation in diabetic nephropathy.
median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials and the glasgow coma scale as predictors of outcome in comatose patients with head injuries. median nerve somatosensory evoked potential (ssep) grades and glasgow coma scale (gsc) scores were obtained from 51 patients with head injuries within 1 week after the injury to determine the relationship of these scores, both individually and combined, to outcome scores obtained more than 6 months after the injury. ssep grading was based on the presence or absence of the cortical evoked potential, the amplitude of the early cortically generated p22 wave form, and the conduction time through the brain (p/n13-n20 interpeak latency). ssep responses from both sides of the brain were combined and graded from 1 to 6. the gcs was graded without the verbal component (maximum score, 10), because all patients were intubated. all patients were unresponsive to commands. median ssep grades correlated better with glasgow outcome scale and barthel index scores (r = 0.57 and 0.64, respectively; p less than 0.00001) than gcs scores did (r = 0.35 and 0.37, respectively, p less than 0.00001), and combining ssep grades and gcs scores did not improve the predictive power of the model (r = 0.57 and 0.64, respectively; p less than 0.00001). all ssep grade 1 patients (n = 13) either died or remained in a vegetative state. in contrast, all ssep grade 6 patients (n = 7) had a moderate disability or good recovery. this study demonstrates the prognostic value of early quantitative median nerve ssep grading for patients with head injuries who are unresponsive to commands within 1 week after the injury.
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders. care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery. if the clinical picture cannot logically be explained by the radiologic findings, further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder. investigations may include electrophysiologic tests, transcranial magnetic stimulation, cerebrospinal fluid (csf) analysis, and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined.
crural artery bypass with adjunctive arteriovenous fistula. a modification in distal anastomosis. we carried out crural artery bypass with an adjunctive arteriovenous fistula in 8 lower extremities of 7 patients with severe ischemic symptoms and poor distal run-off. mean blood flow rates in the implanted grafts ranged from 43 to 340 ml/min and those of the reconstructed crural arteries from 20 to 100 ml/min. a stenotic lesion was noted on postoperative angiogram in one patient and stasis symptoms caused by downward blood flow into the distal veins in another. the other patients have remained well with good function of the grafts 1-5 years after surgery. we modified the distal corner of the anastomosis as follows: three additional interrupted simple sutures were made on the anterior wall of the concomitant arteriotomy and venotomy incisions after making the common posterior wall of the vessel incisions. a vascular pocket formed at the distal corner of the anastomosis prevents stricture at the anastomosis. the vein is finally ligated just distal to the fistula to intercept downward blood flow into the distal veins. this modification in technique is recommended to prevent stricture of the distal anastomosis and postoperative stasis symptoms.
what affects continence after anterior resection of the rectum? functional results after anterior rectal resections are commonly considered satisfactory but variable percentages of postoperative incontinence are often reported. continence was evaluated after 20 low anterior resections (lar) and 13 high anterior resections (har) by means of clinical assessment, anorectal manometry, and evacuation proctography. whereas all har patients had perfect continence, 10 patients (50 percent of the lar group had occasional episodes of soiling from liquid feces, 5 patients (25 percent had frequent soiling or occasional incontinence for solid feces, and 1 patient (5 percent had frequent solid stool loss requiring surgical treatment. anal canal resting pressure at 3 and 4 cm from the anal verge was significantly lower in the lar group (p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.05, respectively) than in the har group. however, the maximum voluntary contraction did not differ between the two groups. rectoanal inhibitory reflex was found to be present in 17 of the 20 patients with lar and in all patients with har. the volume at which the anal sphincter is continuously inhibited was significantly reduced in the lar group (p less than 0.001). also, the conscious rectal sensibility volumes were found to be significantly reduced for threshold, constant, and maximum tolerated volume. threshold volume for internal sphincter relaxation was lower than the threshold volume for rectal sensation in some patients with lar. this could allow postoperative fecal soiling. rectal compliance was decreased (p less than 0.001) in the lar group. evacuation proctography, performed in six lar patients affected by major soiling or solid stool loss, revealed an abnormal obtuse anorectal angle and pathologic lowering of the perineum at rest and during defecation. the concomitance of internal and sphincter impairment, reduction in rectal compliance, and previous pelvis floor muscle damage are postulated as cause affecting continence in patients who underwent lar.
serum cholesterol levels and survival in elderly hypertensive patients: analysis of data from the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly. the relation between serum cholesterol and mortality was investigated in 822 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to treatment with diuretics, with or without methyldopa, or placebo. cox's proportional hazards model showed that pretreatment serum total cholesterol levels were independently and inversely correlated with total mortality (p = 0.03), noncardiovascular mortality (p = 0.02), and cancer mortality (p = 0.04) during treatment. total and noncardiovascular mortality were also negatively correlated with pretreatment hemoglobin levels and body weight. all factors being equal, an increase in total serum cholesterol of 2.3 mmol/l was associated with a one-year prolongation of survival. after adjustment for gender, age, pretreatment cardiovascular complications, and systolic pressure, the correlations between serum cholesterol and cardiovascular and cardiac mortality were not significant.
pancreatic ischaemia in experimental acute pancreatitis: mechanism, significance and therapy. much clinical and experimental evidence suggests that pancreatic ischaemia in the early phase of acute pancreatitis is important in the development of pancreatic necrosis. while depletion of intravascular volume has often been assumed to be the main circulatory defect, an additional disturbance of pancreatic microcirculation has been demonstrated experimentally. possible contributory mechanisms include chemical-induced vasoconstriction, direct injury of vessel wall, intravascular coagulation and increased endothelial permeability resulting in pancreatic oedema, haemoconcentration and impaired venous drainage. pancreatic ischaemia as a consequence of these local effects seems to be responsible for the transition of mild pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis. in experimental models the beneficial effect of various drugs and of sympathetic blockade has been ascribed to an improvement in pancreatic perfusion. although effective volume therapy is generally accepted as the mainstay of conservative treatment in acute pancreatitis, the efficacy of different fluid preparations is still controversial, and simple fluid resuscitation has not been shown to prevent the development of parenchymal necrosis. the specific impairment of pancreatic microcirculation cannot be prevented merely by replenishment of intravascular volume with crystalloids, albumin or plasma despite normalization of macrohaemodynamics. in contrast, partial replacement of blood by dextran preparations has been shown to increase pancreatic perfusion by improving blood fluidity. isovolaemic haemodilution in conjunction with conventional fluid therapy may provide a new and effective means of protecting the pancreas from secondary injury due to the early ischaemic phase of acute pancreatitis.
the national cholesterol education program: guidelines, status, and issues. the 1987 report of the adult treatment panel (atp) of the national cholesterol education program (ncep) was concerned with who should be treated for high blood cholesterol levels and how they should be treated. total cholesterol levels were classified for identification of cases. low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were classified for decisions about treatment. the atp guidelines emphasize diet as the primary approach to treating patients with high blood cholesterol levels. the recommendations of the report are being widely publicized through physician and patient educational programs and the mass media. the report of the population panel of the ncep provides recommendations and guidelines for the public health approach to the problem of high cholesterol levels. when the recommendations of both reports are fully implemented, it is expected that substantial reductions in the incidence of coronary heart disease will be achieved.
tissue dose estimates following the selective uptake of 125iudr and other radiolabelled thymidine precursors in resistant tumours. for the purposes of evaluation of the therapeutic potential of the radiohalogenated thymidine analogue 125iudr, estimation of the radiation dose to the tumour cells and normal tissues is important. to determine the dose to any tissue from the radionuclide 125i is not simple, since the major emissions are very short-range auger electrons. the cytotoxicity of 125i is strongly dependent on the position of the decay relative to the dna, the principal target for cell sterilization. estimates of the cytotoxicity of 125i based on the traditional mird recommended formulation (icru report 32, 1979) may produce gross underestimates if it is incorporated into the dna via the thymidine precursor 125iudr. in this work, tissue count and autoradiography (arg) data from studies by bagshawe et al were used to estimate tissue doses following the administration of 125iudr to ls174/t (a colorectal carcinoma) and cc3 (a choriocarcinoma) tumour-bearing animals, after a hydroxyurea block of the normal tissue turnover. the tumour cell toxicity is estimated from arg data on the degree of 125i incorporation into the cell nucleus. major drawbacks with 125i for this type of therapy are the long 60-day half-life, leading to radiological and waste disposal problems and the extreme short range of the radiotoxic effects. possible alternative radiohalogens, 13i, 77br, 131i and 211at, are suggested in place of 125i in the thymidine analog iododeoxyuridine. dose calculations are performed and cytotoxicities estimated on the assumption that their biological retention characteristics are the same as for 125iudr.
prevalence of acute mountain sickness in the swiss alps. objective--to assess the prevalence of symptoms and signs of acute mountain sickness of the swiss alps. design--a study using an interview and clinical examination in a representative population of mountaineers. positive symptoms and signs were assigned scores to quantify the severity of acute mountain sickness. setting--four huts in the swiss alps at 2850 m, 3050 m, 3650 m, and 4559 m. subjects--466 climbers, mostly recreational: 47 at 2850 m, 128 at 3050 m, 82 at 3650, and 209 at 4559 m. results--in all, 117 of the subjects were entirely free of symptoms and clinical signs of acute mountain sickness; 191 had one or two symptoms and signs; and 158 had more than two. those with more than two symptoms and signs were defined as suffering from acute mountain sickness. at 4559 m 11 climbers presented with high altitude pulmonary oedema or cerebral oedema, or both. men and women were equally affected. the prevalence of acute mountain sickness correlated with altitude: it was 9% at 2850 m, 13% at 3050 m, 34% at 3650 m, and 53% at 4559 m. the most frequent symptoms and signs were insomnia, headache, peripheral oedema, and scanty pulmonary rales. severe headache, vomiting, dizziness, tachypnoea, and pronounced pulmonary rales were associated with other symptoms and signs and therefore characteristic of acute mountain sickness. conclusion--acute mountain sickness is not an uncommon disease at moderately high altitude--that is, above 2800 m. severe headache, vomiting, dizziness, tachypnoea, and pronounced pulmonary rales indicate severe acute mountain sickness, and subjects who suffer these should immediately descend to lower altitudes.
coronary angioplasty requiring extraordinarily high balloon inflation pressure. two cases are presented in which extraordinarily high balloon inflation pressures (20 and 17 atm) were required to successfully dilate a saphenous vein graft stenosis and a right coronary artery stenosis. the clinical application of high balloon inflation pressures and balloon selection is discussed.
sun-induced freckles in children and young adults. a correlation of clinical and histopathologic features. sun-induced freckles are a risk factor for epidermal and melanocytic neoplasia. whereas sun-induced freckles in children and older adults may be clinically indistinguishable, and sun-induced freckles in older adults usually consist of increased numbers of intraepidermal melanocytes, the histology of sun-induced freckles in children remains unsettled. using l-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine (dopa)-paraffin sections, the authors examined six sun-induced freckles and adjacent nonpigmented skin (anp) in as many white male subjects, ages 10 to 23 years. melanocyte frequency was expressed as the ratio of dopa-reactive melanocytes to total epidermal basal unit cells. for each case, melanocyte frequencies in freckles were significantly greater than in anp. cellular atypia of melanocytes was noticed in four of six freckles. reactivity of melanocytes for hmb-45 was noticed in two freckles studied, compared with no reactivity in three specimens of anp studied. the authors conclude the sun-induced freckles in the young may consist of a hyperplasia of melanocytes (i.e., similar to solar lentigines in the elderly), sometimes with cellular atypia, and that these findings may be relevant to melanocytic neoplasia.
delayed facial palsy following uncomplicated stapedectomy. we report six cases of partial lower motor neurone facial palsy occurring between four and ten days after uncomplicated stapedectomy. the aetiology is unclear but recovery was rapid and complete in all patients.
cerebral blood flow in acute mountain sickness. changes in cerebral blood flow (cbf) were measured using the radioactive xenon technique and were related to the development of acute mountain sickness (ams). in 12 subjects, ascending from 150 to 3,475 m, cbf was 24% increased at 24 h [45.1 to 55.9 initial slope index (isi) units] and 4% increased at 6 days (47.1 isi units). four subjects had similar increases of cbf when ascending to 3,200 m 3 mo later, indicating the reproducibility of the measurements. in nine subjects, ascending from 3,200 to 4,785-5,430 m, cbf increased to 76.4 isi units, 53% above estimated sea-level values. cbf and increases in cbf were similar in subjects with or without ams. in six subjects, cbf was measured before and after therapeutic intervention. at 2 h cbf increased 22% (71.3 to 87.3 isi units) above pretreatment values in three subjects given 1.5 g acetazolamide, while three subjects given placebo showed no change. symptoms remained unaltered in all subjects during the 2 h of the study. overall, the results indicated that increases in cbf were similar in subjects with or without ams while acetazolamide-provoked increases of cbf in ams subjects caused no acute change in symptoms. alterations in cbf cannot be directly implicated in the pathogenesis of ams.
relationship of parental smoking to wheezing and nonwheezing lower respiratory tract illnesses in infancy. group health medical associates. the relationship between parental smoking and lower respiratory tract illness (lri) was studied in a large cohort of infants followed prospectively from birth. illnesses were diagnosed by physicians using agreed-on criteria, and parental smoking histories were obtained by questionnaire. the lris were differentiated into wheezing and nonwheezing episodes, and the age at first illness of either type was evaluated in relation to smoking by parents. the odds of having an lri were significantly higher in children whose mothers smoked (odds ratio 1.52; confidence interval 1.07 to 2.15). the odds were higher if the mother smoked a pack of cigarettes or more per day and if the child stayed home rather than attending day care (odds ratio 2.8; confidence interval 1.43 to 5.5). logistic regression indicated that the lri rate was significantly elevated both in children exposed to heavy maternal smoke in the absence of day care, and in those who use day care but were not exposed to maternal smoking of a pack or more per day. these findings could not be attributed to other confounding variables. neither paternal smoking nor smoking by other household members was consistently related to the lri rate. the relationship of maternal smoking to lri rate was evident for both wheezing and nonwheezing illnesses. maternal smoking of a pack or more per day was also related to an early age at first lri, for both wheezing (p less than 0.05) and nonwheezing (p less than 0.002) illnesses. in sum, maternal smoking is associated with a higher rate of lris in the first year, particularly when mothers smoked a pack or more per day and when the child did not use day care.
causes of death in the elderly and their changing pattern in hisayama, a japanese community. results from a long-term and autopsy-based study. the causes of death for the elderly were prospectively studied in hisayama, japan, a rural community. we compared 1,621 subjects, aged 40 years or over, recruited in 1961, and 2,053 subjects recruited in 1974. each cohort was studied in a follow-up that lasted 10 years; they had autopsy rates of 82.1% and 86.1% during each 10-year period, respectively. the most common causes of death for those aged 70 years or over were cerebrovascular disease, malignant neoplasms, and pneumonia. deaths due to cerebrovascular disease tended to decrease in the recent cohort, but the proportion of decline was more prominent in cases aged 40 to 69 years. there was a sex difference in the changing pattern of mortality from heart diseases including ischemic heart disease. deaths by both heart diseases and ischemic heart disease increased in the more recent cohort of aged women, whereas they decreased in the aged men. pneumonia was an important cause of death for the elderly in both cohorts. deaths due to "senility" were rare, being only 1% of the deceased aged 70 or over. with prolonged lifespan, especially for women, the impact of atherosclerosis and its related disorders on the recent japanese aged population appears to have increased.
neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin prophylaxis of posttraumatic seizures in order to determine potential negative neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin given to prevent the development of posttraumatic seizures, 244 subjects were randomized to phenytoin or placebo. they received neurobehavioral assessments at 1 and 12 months postinjury while receiving their assigned drug and at 24 months while receiving no drugs. in the severely injured, phenytoin significantly impaired performance at 1 month. no significant differences were found as a function of phenytoin in the moderately injured patients at 1 month or in either severity group at 1 year. patients who stopped receiving phenytoin according to protocol between 1 and 2 years improved more than corresponding placebo cases on several measures. we conclude that phenytoin has negative cognitive effects. this, combined with lack of evidence for its effectiveness in preventing posttraumatic seizures beyond the first week, raises questions regarding its use for long-term prophylaxis. our findings do not negate phenytoin's proven efficacy in controlling established seizures nor do they indicate that its cognitive effects are worse than other anticonvulsant drugs.
serial magnetic resonance imaging in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. we prospectively performed magnetic resonance imaging (mri) studies during the neonatal period, and at 4 and 8 months of age, on 15 term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, and compared the results with their neurodevelopmental outcome at 18 months of age. cerebral palsy developed in nine infants, two infants were classified as having abnormalities of tone and delayed motor milestones that were suggestive of cerebral palsy, and four infants were normal. structural abnormalities, delayed myelination, or a combination of the two were detected with mri at 8 months of age in all nine infants with later development of cerebral palsy. three of the four normal infants and one infant with suggestive abnormalities had normal serial mri findings. each of the remaining two infants (one normal, one with suggestive abnormalities) had isolated persistent ventricular dilation on all three mri studies. our results suggest that 8 months appears to be the earliest time at which mri findings correlate well with later adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in this population.
limbal autograft reconstruction after conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma. two patients who had squamous cell carcinoma with extensive limbal and corneal involvement were treated with surgery and cryotherapy. rarely large areas of the cornea are involved by this tumor. visual prognosis in such patients is poor. in these two patients, autologous limbal transplants were effective in restoring an excellent corneal surface and good visual function. this technique may be useful in the reconstruction of eyes with extensive neoplastic involvement of the corneoscleral limbus and cornea.
partial splenic embolization. an effective alternative to splenectomy for hypersplenism. splenectomy for massive splenomegaly and hypersplenism carries a significant morbidity and mortality. we have used partial splenic embolization (pse) as an effective alternative to splenectomy. ten pse procedures were performed on nine patients without mortality and with minimal morbidity. the age of the patients ranged from 8 months to 32 years (mean 14 years). the causes of splenomegaly and hypersplenism included cystic fibrosis with cirrhosis (2), tyrosinemia and cirrhosis (1); thalassemia (1), hemophilia with human immune deficiency virus infection (2), chronic hepatitis with portal hypertension (1), malignant histiocytosis (1), and wiskott-aldrich syndrome (1). all procedures were performed under local anesthesia with sedation. a percutaneous femoral artery approach to the splenic artery was used to deliver ivalon sponge particles (280-800 microns) into the spleen. splenic infarction was assessed by postembolization angiograms. all of the patients except one demonstrated improvement of hematologic parameters. in one patient, however, cytopenia improved only after a second embolization. in the total series, there was an early mean rise of 8,600/mm3 in the leukocyte count (range 2,900-14,900) and 212,000/mm3 in the platelet count (range 30,000-718,000). follow-up ranged from 4 months to 7 years. improvement of the blood picture has been persistent in seven of the eight patients who showed initial improvement. transient procedural complications included fever (5), pleural effusion (2), pneumonia (1), and splenic abscess (1). one patient had paralytic ileus lasting for 10 days and one patient developed a streptococcal peritonitis 3 weeks after embolization. no patient developed pancreatitis or vascular compromise of other abdominal viscera.
thyroid crises. in the setting of characteristic features of thyrotoxicosis, the timely diagnosis and aggressive management of thyroid storm should result in a successful outcome. however, severe storm may lead to irreversible cardiovascular collapse, especially in the older patient who may have atypical features of thyrotoxicosis. the fundamental approach is prompt and optimal treatment in the emergency department once the presenting clinical features suggest its presence. delay in the introduction of therapy while awaiting laboratory confirmation may result in further decompensation and death. the prevention of myxedema coma entails paying special attention to certain high-risk patient groups. these groups include older women with a history of hashimoto's thyroiditis, or previous irradiation or thyroid surgery for hyperthyroidism. inform such patients of the symptoms and signs of hypothyroidism, and perform annual thyroid function tests, such as a serum tsh, in order to provide early, adequate treatment once the test becomes positive.
when is polypectomy sufficient treatment for colorectal cancer in a polyp? eighty-seven patients with a carcinoma in a polyp were reviewed over a 12-year period. ten histologic criteria were analyzed for an association with the presence of residual carcinoma. four factors were identified as having prognostic value: size greater than 1.5 cm, sessility, cancer of at least 50% of the adenoma volume, and invasive carcinoma. polypectomy alone is adequate treatment unless the carcinoma invades deeper to the muscularis mucosa and is associated with one or more of these characteristics.
septic pulmonary emboli. a rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers. an intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax. this is a previously unreported (to our knowledge) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis. this possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts.
metabolic studies of radioiodinated serum amyloid p component in normal subjects and patients with systemic amyloidosis. 125i-serum amyloid p component (sap), injected intravenously into 10 normal subjects, remained predominantly intravascular with mean (sd) t1/2 (half time) in plasma of 24.5 (5.9) h. the fractional catabolic rate of 68 (19)% of the plasma pool per day was more rapid than other reported human plasma proteins. all radioactivity was excreted in the urine by 14 d. in 16 patients with monoclonal gammopathy or chronic inflammatory diseases, but without amyloidosis, 125i-sap metabolism was normal. however, among 45 patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis (25, amyloid a type; 20, amyloid l type), 125i-sap was cleared from the plasma more rapidly, accumulated in the amyloid deposits, and persisted there. the t1/2 in amyloid, measured directly with 131i-sap, was 24 d. repeat studies after 6-18 mo were notably consistent in normals but changed significantly in amyloid patients, generally correlating with clinical signs of disease progression. measurements of 125i-sap turnover may thus be of value for diagnosis and monitoring of amyloidosis. analysis of sap metabolism in amyloidosis suggests that plasma sap is in dynamic equilibrium with a very large amyloid pool, and in two autopsies the total mass of sap in the amyloid deposits was 2,100 and 21,000 mg, respectively.
pulmonary artery balloon counterpulsation for intraoperative right ventricular failure. two cases of severe low cardiac output and right ventricular failure after coronary artery bypass grafting necessitated pulmonary artery balloon counterpulsation after intraaortic balloon pumping and maximal inotropic/pressor support were unsuccessful in maintaining a satisfactory cardiac output. hemodynamic improvement was sufficient to allow removal of the device 2 and 3 days postoperatively, with survival in 1 patient. pulmonary artery counterpulsation is less morbid in comparison with other mechanical methods of right ventricular support and is applicable in right ventricular failure of intermediate severity.
incarceration of colonoscope in an inguinal hernia. "pulley" technique of removal. because of its relative safety, colonoscopy has become an accepted diagnostic and therapeutic procedure in the evaluation of patients with colorectal disorders. many unusual complications of colonoscopy have been described, but only anecdotal reports of hernial incarceration have been published. we present a case of a right-sided hernial incarceration of the colonoscope that would not permit reduction of the hernia nor removal of the instrument by conventional means. the mechanism of incarceration, which dictates the size of hernia at risk for incarceration, is explained. the "pulley" technique, which was used to remove the instrument without surgical intervention, is described.
early complications in the operative treatment of ankle fractures. influence of delay before operation. we have reviewed the early complications of 121 surgically treated closed ankle fractures; the complication rate was 30%, with 14 major and 22 minor complications. fractures with skin blisters or abrasions had more than double the overall complication rate. fracture-dislocations had three times as many major complications as simple fractures, and those not fixed within 24 hours had a 44% major complication rate compared to 5.3% in those operated upon as emergencies. patients transferred from another medical facility had high complication rates, especially if they had fracture-dislocations. we conclude that operative treatment of ankle fractures must be delivered in a timely fashion, especially in severe fractures. we would caution against the practice of transferring patients with serious ankle fractures before completion of definitive care.
lack of correlation of clinical breast examination with high-risk histopathology. purpose: routine breast examination frequently finds differences in palpable density and palpable nodularity, but it is not known if these differences correlate with the presence of high-risk histopathology. patients and methods: to test for a relationship between clinical breast examination and histopathology, we devised separate, 4-point scales of clinical density and nodularity and validated these scales by repeat examinations 4 or more months apart in 199 separate breasts (the scale was the same or within 1 point on repeat examination 87% of the time for density and 90% for nodularity). we then used these two clinical scales to compare density and nodularity to histopathology of breast tissue at the margins of segmental resections in 60 women undergoing breast-conserving treatment of primary breast cancer. in cases such as these, a large sample of "normal" tissue is intentionally removed when the wide excision is done to obtain negative margins. histopathology at the margins was graded according to the consensus panel of the american college of pathology; as might be expected in women with previous cancer, some higher-risk histopathology was found in 37% of cases. a relationship was sought using spearman's rank correlation coefficient. results: neither clinical breast density (rho = 0.16) nor clinical breast nodularity (rho = 0.01) related to the presence of high-risk histopathology in the underlying tissue. interestingly, breast nodularity increased with age (rho = 0.28), and clinical density and nodularity were inversely related (rho = -0.28). conclusion: we conclude that neither clinical breast density nor nodularity correlates with histopathology and that it is unlikely that a larger study would find a clinically useful correlation. therefore, a clinical examination should not be used to decide that high-risk histopathology is likely to be present in an individual woman's breast.
ostium secundum atrial septal defect in the elderly. atrial septal defect (asd) is one of the most common congenital cardiac anomalies in adults. life expectancy is shortened, and almost 90% of patients die by the age of 60 years. the progression of this congenital disease to congestive heart failure has been related to several factors such as the onset of pulmonary hypertension, arrhythmias, bronchopulmonary infections, or the development of other cardiovascular disease. we describe three cases of very old patients with significant asds and late development of symptoms. given the higher risks and poorer long-term results of surgical closure of the defect in advanced age, the indications for such an intervention in elderly patients should be carefully evaluated.
deletion mapping of aland island eye disease to xp21 between dxs67 (b24) and duchenne muscular dystrophy. aland island eye disease (aied) is an x-linked form of ocular hypopigmentation--also known as forsius-eriksson, or type 2, ocular albinism--in which affected males demonstrate subnormal visual acuity, protanomalous red-green colorblindness, axial myopia, astigmatism, hypoplasia of the fovea, and hypopigmentation of the fundus. a patient has previously been described who, in addition to aied, manifested a contiguous gene syndrome which included congenital adrenal hypoplasia (ahc), glycerol kinase deficiency (gkd), and duchenne muscular dystrophy (dmd). in the present paper report we report the molecular genetic analysis of his deletion. initially, multiplex polymerase-chain-reaction amplification was used to screen for a dmd-locus deletion which was then further characterized, using dmd cdna and genomic probes, via southern blot analysis. the deletion includes the region encompassed by probes c7 (dxs28) and dmd cdna 8. probes b24 (dxs67) and dmd cdna 5b-7 show normal hybridization patterns and appear to flank the deletion, while the dmd cdna 8 detects a junction fragment. molecular genetic techniques have mapped the deletion in this patient to the subbands xp21.3-21.2, between dxs67 and dmd.
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate with endobronchial metastasis. endobronchial metastases can manifest clinical symptoms and x-ray findings mimicking a centrally located bronchogenic carcinoma. the authors recently encountered a case of endobronchial metastasis from a mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate that was originally diagnosed as a primary bronchogenic carcinoma. the correct diagnosis was made on the basis of the morphologic similarities between the primary prostatic lesion and the lung lesion and was corroborated by immunohistochemical analyses.
asthma and eczema in children born to women with migraine. migraine and asthma have been reported to occur in the same person more commonly than would be expected if they are independent. the large collaborative perinatal project provided an opportunity to see if children born to women with migraine or with the group of disorders characterized by asthma and/or allergies were more likely to manifest asthma or eczema in the first 7 years of life. among children whose mothers had neither migraine nor asthma/allergies, 3.2% had asthma. of children whose mothers had migraine, but not asthma/allergies, more than 6% had asthma. the risk of asthma among children born to women who had both migraine and asthma/allergies was greater than the risk associated with each maternal disease. the risk of eczema in children was not appreciably influenced by the mother's propensity to migraine or asthma/allergies. the results of this first study of migraine in one generation and asthma in the next lead to the conclusion that the two disorders are probably related.
urinary tract re-functionalization after long-term diversion. a 20-year experience with 177 patients. from 1969 to 1990, previously diverted urinary tracts were 'undiverted' in 177 patients whose ages ranged from 1 to 31 years. fifty-six of the patients (32%) had been diverted for 10 years or longer. there were 67 female and 110 male patients. forty-four patients had only one kidney and in two of those patients it was a previous renal transplant. one patient was anephric at the time of reconstruction, having had two unsuccessful transplants. most of the diversions had been considered permanent. types of diversions that were reversed include ileal loop, colon conduit, loop ureterostomy or pyelostomy, end ureterostomy, cystostomy or vesicostomy, long-term nephrostomy, and ureterosigmoidostomy.
lymph node metastasis in spindle cell carcinoma arising in odontogenic cyst. report of a case. the majority of primary intraosseous carcinomas of the jaws develop in preexisting odontogenic cysts. these tumors are usually well-differentiated keratinizing carcinomas with relatively good prognosis. only two of 41 previously reported acceptable cases of primary intraosseous carcinomas from ex-odontogenic cysts were associated with cervical lymph node metastasis. spindle cell carcinoma is an anaplastic dimorphic neoplasm with poor prognosis. it has a special predilection for the upper aerodigestive tract. this is to our knowledge the first report of spindle cell carcinoma developing in an odontogenic cyst. cervical lymph node metastasis showing typical histologic features of spindle cell carcinoma was detected 8 months postoperatively. the prognostic implications of this finding are discussed in light of previously reported cases of intraosseous carcinoma arising in odontogenic cysts and of spindle cell carcinoma of the oral cavity.
skin reflectance pulse oximetry: in vivo measurements from the forearm and calf. this study describes the results from a series of human experiments demonstrating the ability to measure arterial hemoglobin oxygen saturation (sao2) from the forearm and calf using a reflectance pulse oximeter sensor. a special optical reflectance sensor that includes a heating element was interfaced to a temperature controller and a commercial data-scope accusat pulse oximeter that was adapted for this study to perform as a reflectance pulse oximeter. the reflectance pulse oximeter sensor was evaluated in a group of 10 healthy adult volunteers during steady-state hypoxia. hypoxia was induced by gradually lowering the inspired fraction of oxygen in the breathing gas mixture from 100 to 12%. simultaneous sao2 measurements obtained from the forearm and calf with two identical reflectance pulse oximeters were compared with sao2 values measured by a finger sensor that was interfaced to a standard datascope accusat transmittance pulse oximeter. the equations for the best-fitted linear regression lines between the percent reflectance, spo2(r), and transmittance, spo2(t), values in the range between 73 and 100% were spo2(r) = -7.06 + 1.09 spo2(t) for the forearm (n = 91, r = 0.95) and spo2(r) = 7.78 + 0.93 spo2(t) for the calf (n = 93, r = 0.88). the regression analysis of the forearm data revealed a mean +/- sd error of 2.47 +/- 1.66% (sao2 = 90-100%), 2.35 +/- 2.45% (sao2 = 80-89%), and 2.42 +/- 1.20% (sao2 = 70-79%). the corresponding regression analysis of the calf data revealed a mean +/- sd error of 3.36 +/- 3.06% (sao2 = 90-100%), 3.45 +/- 4.12% (sao2 = 80-89%), and 2.97 +/- 2.75% (sao2 = 70-79%).
a laser-induced scar at the cardia increases the yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter low yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter is associated with esophageal reflux, and fundoplication must increase yield pressure if it is to prevent reflux. we attempted to increase yield pressure endoscopically in the dog by using the nd:yag laser to produce a fibrous scar at the cardia in the approximate line of the gastric sling fibers. ten beagle dogs were studied. in a pilot study with two dogs, 15 watts for 4.2 sec were found to produce a scar deep into the muscle coat of the stomach. three configurations of scar were used. one produced significant rises in yield pressure in all four of the dogs treated, the second produced a significant rise in one of the two dogs treated, and the third caused a significant drop in yield pressure in the one dog treated. one dog died of gastric perforation 10 days after lasering, but no other animal experienced any ill effects. these findings may have therapeutic implications for the management of esophageal reflux.
acute autonomic neuropathy. two cases and a clinical review. acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome, usually affecting healthy young people. presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common. we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature. acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension (26%) or pandysautonomic (74%) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions. onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20% of cases, with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks. gastroparesis (69%) and syncope (12%) are frequent presenting complaints. spinal fluid protein levels are often (75%) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes. prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule (60%), with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension. other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism, porphyria, amyloidosis, and paracarcinomatous neuropathies. acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy (guillain-barre syndrome), suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis.
neuroleptic malignant syndrome in parkinson's disease after withdrawal or alteration of dopaminergic therapy. neuroleptic malignant syndrome is characterized by altered consciousness, fever, extrapyramidal signs, autonomic instability, elevated creatine kinase level, and leukocytosis. although originally described in patients receiving neuroleptic drugs, this syndrome may also occur in patients with parkinson's disease during withdrawal or reduction of levodopa therapy or other dopaminergic drug therapy. we have encountered three cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome related to withdrawal of levodopa therapy. these cases illustrate the variety of circumstances in which alteration of therapy with dopaminergic drugs can cause this syndrome and the relative unfamiliarity of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome-levodopa relationship among physicians who do not treat large numbers of patients with parkinson's disease. an understanding of the role of brain dopamine in the pathogenesis of neuroleptic malignant syndrome and an appreciation of the great variety of drugs whose manipulation can result in this potentially fatal syndrome will aid its proper and timely recognition, especially when the offending pharmacologic manipulation does not involve neuroleptic drugs.
popliteal aneurysms identified by intra-arterial streptokinase: a changing pattern of presentation. five patients presenting with chronic or subacute leg ischaemia due to thrombosed popliteal artery aneurysm are described. only one of these aneurysms was diagnosed before intra-arterial streptokinase infusion, which successfully lysed the thrombus in all cases. one aneurysm had been symptomatic for 5 years and another for 2 years. popliteal aneurysm may well be underdiagnosed as a cause of chronic leg ischaemia.
retinoid modulation of insulin-like growth factor-binding proteins and inhibition of breast carcinoma proliferation. retinoids induce cellular differentiation and inhibit cellular proliferation. proliferation of human breast carcinoma cells in vitro is markedly inhibited by these compounds. on the other hand, insulin-like growth factors (igfs) and their receptors seem to be involved in the growth of certain breast carcinoma cells by autocrine or paracrine effects. since the effects of both igf-i and igf-ii may be modulated by specific binding proteins (igf-bps) we examined the possibility that one mechanism by which retinoic acid may inhibit cancer growth is by an alteration in these bps, thereby blocking igf's growth effect. retinoic acid (ra; 1 microm) completely blocked the effect of igf-i (50 ng/ml) on enhancing proliferation of mcf-7 cells in culture. this effect of ra was not associated with any significant change in specific igf-i-binding sites on these cells. ra induced a 3-fold increase in igf-binding activity in conditioned medium, measured using a polyethylene glycol-immunoglobulin precipitation assay and a charcoal absorption assay. this increase was associated with the appearance of 42- and 46-kda igf-bps on ligand blotting. the effect of ra on these igf-bps was time and concentration dependent. in contrast, during some experiments the 27- and 36-kda bps actually decreased. these findings support the hypothesis that ra may inhibit the growth of certain breast carcinoma cells by increasing the secretion of certain igf-bps, which could directly modulate the growth effect of igfs.
no finding of increased myocardial ischemia during or after carotid endarterectomy under anesthesia with nitrous oxide. nitrous oxide (n2o) has been implicated as a cause of myocardial ischemia. we investigated whether substitution of n2o for a portion of the anesthesia supplied by isoflurane increased myocardial ischemia in patients at risk for such ischemia. seventy patients having carotid endarterectomies (63 patients) or other carotid surgery (seven patients) were prospectively, randomly assigned to an anesthetic regimen that included or excluded n2o. all other aspects of anesthetic management were similar, except for greater concentrations of oxygen and isoflurane in patients not given n2o. perioperative monitoring for myocardial ischemia and infarction included 12- or 5-lead electrocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography, and creatine kinase isoenzyme levels. by transesophageal echocardiographic or electrocardiographic criteria, 44% of patients given oxygen but only 21% of those given n2o had myocardial ischemia intraoperatively (p = 0.065). similarly, myocardial infarction, identified by changes in creatine kinase isoenzymes, occurred in only one patient given n2o but in three given oxygen (not significantly different). thus we found no trend indicating a greater incidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction associated with the use of n2o.
resolved and unresolved issues in the prevention and treatment of coronary artery disease: a workshop consensus statement. advances in cardiovascular research during the past two decades have resulted in an improved understanding of the chain of events that lead to end-stage coronary artery disease. these developments have been paralleled by therapeutic advances that now make it possible to intervene at virtually every stage in the development of advanced cardiac disease, from asymptomatic persons at risk of developing coronary atherosclerosis to patients with end-stage heart failure. by interrupting this chain of events, perhaps at multiple sites, it may be possible to prevent or slow the development of symptomatic heart disease and hopefully prolong life. many opportunities exist for obtaining further information regarding the underlying pathophysiology, the fundamental mechanisms of action of interventions designed to prevent and/or treat the development of myocardial ischemia and cardiac failure and for effecting favorably the natural history of various forms of heart disease.
biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. virtually all cases of childhood all have chromosomal abnormalities and half contain translocations, which are nearly equally divided between random and nonrandom rearrangements. nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities have been correlated with leukemic cell lineage, the degree of cell differentiation, and the specific gene involved at the molecular level. many cytogenetic findings have prognostic significance; however, the adverse influence of certain changes, including most chromosomal translocations, may in fact be offset by the greater cytoreductive effects of intensified therapy. table 4 summarizes the relation of selected karyotypic findings to treatment outcome in patients treated on contemporary protocols. among all of the chromosomal abnormalities identified in childhood all, hyperdiploidy greater than 50 has been associated with the most favorable prognosis. at the opposite end of the spectrum, the treatment outcome for patients with classical ph+ or hypodiploid all is very poor even in programs of intensive chemotherapy; alternative treatment such as bone marrow transplantation should be considered for such patients. cases with the t(4;11)(q21;q23) also have a very poor clinical outcome, but the adverse prognosis may be limited to the infant or adolescent age groups. the prognostic significance of other nonrandom translocations, such as t(1;19)(q23;p13) and several other abnormalities, needs to be further assessed in larger numbers of patients. finally, as more is learned about the molecular pathology underlying these rearrangements, it may be possible to develop new therapeutic agents that are specifically targeted to interfere with the aberrant gene products expressed by human leukemic cells.
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients. the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil (5fu) 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 (fec 50) and 5fu 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 (fec 75) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients. patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only. four hundred twelve patients entered this trial; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy. the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 (44.6%) and fec 75 (44.7%), but both were better than the epirubicin alone (30.6%) (p = .04 and p = .0006, respectively). the complete response rate was better in fec 75 (15.5%) than in fec 50 (7%) (p = .025) or epirubicin (4%) (p = .002). similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases. no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only. mean durations of response were similar in the three groups, being 412 days, 440 days, and 350 days for fec 50, fec 75, and epirubicin, respectively. patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment (without anthracyclines). tolerability was fair in the three groups. overall, the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups, which did not differ significantly. time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups, but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group, and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance. no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin- and fec 50-group patients, even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group.
laparoscopic repair of bladder injury. this case report describes laparoscopic suturing for bladder repair. this technique affords the laparoscopic surgeon another means of managing a surgical complication without resorting to laparotomy.
multilevel transneuronal degeneration after brain damage. behavioral events and effects of anticonvulsant gamma-aminobutyric acid-related drugs. recent morphologic and behavioral studies of the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid agents on transsynaptic degeneration after cortical and striatal damage are reviewed and discussed. following unilateral lesions of the anteromedial cortex, mild atrophy appears in the ipsilateral striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata. long-term diazepam administration greatly enhances this degeneration, extends the degeneration into the thalamus, and severely disrupts recovery from somatosensory asymmetries. following unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the striatum, progressive degeneration of neurons occurs in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and efferent targets in the thalamus. this degeneration can be prevented by chronic infusion of muscimol, a gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist. unexpectedly, this treatment did not facilitate recovery from somatosensory asymmetries. recovery in muscimol-treated animals was impaired relative to saline-treated controls. thus, gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists either may enhance or prevent neural atrophy secondary to brain damage, but the behavioral outcome appears to depend importantly on the excitatory and inhibitory characteristics of the affected networks.
thermographic findings in cranio-facial pain. this work assesses the differences in the thermographic findings in the craniofacial and neck areas between normal individuals and patients with craniofacial pain or headache, and investigates the influence of muscle contraction on such findings. thermographic records were taken in 10 healthy subjects and 47 patients suffering from craniofacial pain or headache of different kinds. in the patients with painful episodes the record was taken between attacks. in all the normal subjects and in 19 patients lateral thermograms were also taken during and after maximal tooth clenching for three minutes. the majority of the patients, as compared to the normal group, showed some thermal alterations and asymmetry. such alterations seem to be due both to vascular instability and muscle contraction: these two factors may be variably superimposed in the different conditions. in patients with cluster headache or chronic paroxysmal hemicrania the presence on the symptomatic side of a cold spot along the supraorbital area and/or the inner orbital canthus, was a constant finding. we conclude that thermography is useful as an additional diagnostic means in patients with head and face pain, and that the clenching test may increase the amount of information provided.
maternal feeding behavior and child acceptance of food during diarrhea, convalescence, and health in the central sierra of peru. feeding patterns by mothers and child acceptance of food were measured in a peruvian village to determine changes on days when children had diarrhea as compared to days of convalescence and health. morbidity surveillance identified 40 children, aged 4-36 months, with diarrhea. children were followed using twelve-hour in-home structured observations during two to four days each of diarrhea, convalescence, and health. using scales of maternal encouragement to eat and child acceptance of food and cumulative logistic regression analyses, maternal encouragement to eat decreased significantly during convalescence compared to diarrheal days (or: 0.54, 90% ci: 0.35, 0.82) and health compared to diarrhea (or: 0.65, 90% ci: 0.46, 0.93). in contrast, child acceptance of food increased during health compared to diarrhea (or: 1.55, 90% ci: 1.02, 2.35). results illustrate the importance of carefully examining the behavioral aspects of nutritional intake. decreases in intake during diarrhea are due to anorexia and not withdrawal of food by mothers. in response to reductions in child appetite during illness, mothers are more likely to encourage children to eat, while they tend to become more passive feeders after the diarrhea has stopped. program efforts should focus on messages to feed children more actively especially after diarrhea episodes, when appetite levels increase.
aortocaval and iliac arteriovenous fistulas: recognition and treatment. despite the well characterized physiologic effects of aortocaval or iliac arteriovenous fistulas, patients with such uncommon lesions may manifest a diverse array of symptoms, and diagnosis is often delayed or overlooked. to examine clinical features that facilitate recognition and allow successful repair, a 30-year experience with 20 such fistulas was reviewed. fourteen fistulas were caused by aneurysm erosion, four followed iatrogenic injury during lumbar disk surgery, and two developed from abdominal gunshot wounds. the interval from presumed occurrence to diagnosis ranged from 3 hours to 8 years. the diagnosis was not recognized before surgery in five (25%) patients. back pain (70%) was the most common symptom. the presence of a typical abdominal bruit (80%) was the most reliable physical finding, but its significance was occasionally overlooked or misinterpreted. congestive heart failure was prominent in only seven (35%) patients. severe lower extremity edema and mottling was the primary manifestation in eight cases, often causing initial confusion with venous thrombosis. hematuria (5 patients) and oliguric renal failure (4 patients), both fully reversible after fistula repair, also caused diagnostic uncertainty. the mean preoperative cardiac output was 12.2 l/min, falling to 5.4 l/min with fistula repair. mean blood loss was 5960 ml, supporting use of intraoperative autotransfusion. two operative deaths (10%) occurred, both in patients not correctly diagnosed before surgery. despite varied modes of presentation, prompt recognition and use of appropriate operative techniques should achieve successful repair.
peptide inhibition of neointimal hyperplasia in vein grafts. angiopeptin, a novel synthetic octapeptide, was evaluated as a new approach toward the inhibition of neointimal hyperplasia in vein grafts. male new zealand white rabbits (n = 22) underwent carotid artery interposition bypass grafting with autologous reversed jugular vein. nine rabbits were in the treatment group, and 13 were in the control group. the treatment group received angiopeptin 20 micrograms/kg/day by subcutaneous injection beginning 1 day before operation and continuing for 3 weeks until they were killed. at death the vein grafts were fixed in situ with 10% buffered formalyn at 80 mm hg perfusion pressure. histologic sections through each vein graft were analyzed by computerized morphometric analysis for area of neointimal hyperplasia (mm2). neointimal hyperplasia in the control animals was 0.080 + 0.017 mm2 (mean + sem), whereas neointimal hyperplasia in the group treated with angiopeptin was 0.022 + 0.006 mm2 (mean + sem) (p = 0.02). this is the first time that peptide inhibition of neointimal hyperplasia has been demonstrated in vein grafts and may have significant implications for future use in vascular surgery.
prospective evaluation of radiologically directed fine-needle aspiration biopsy of nonpalpable breast lesions. the application of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) to the diagnosis of nonpalpable breast lesions was evaluated with a new method which uses standard needle localization under mammographic guidance to assure accurate sampling by fnab. this method was prospectively applied to 100 mammographically detected breast lesions in 100 women (mean age, 53 years). all 100 patients underwent surgical excision of these nonpalpable lesions after cytologic aspiration. sufficient aspirated material was obtained for cytologic diagnosis from 91 patients (91%). the histologic and cytologic interpretations were then compared. twenty malignancies were ultimately diagnosed by histology (12 invasive ductal carcinoma, six ductal carcinoma in situ, and two lobular carcinoma in situ), of which 17 had been cytologically diagnosed. there were no false-positive diagnoses of malignancy by fnab. false-negative readings (3.3%) included two cases of lobular carcinoma in situ and one case of ductal carcinoma in situ. this technique thus demonstrated a sensitivity of 85%, specificity of 100%, and overall diagnostic accuracy of 96.7% for the nonsurgical detection of malignancy in nonpalpable breast lesions. these results suggest that the established safety, reliability, and cost-effectiveness of fnab can be maintained in this clinical setting. this procedure may obviate the need for open surgical biopsy in those patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of malignancy. it can also be done using standard techniques and equipment available in many community hospitals.
whole-body lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in cachectic patients with esophageal cancer. whole-body lipolytic rates and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling (reesterification of fatty acids released during lipolysis) were measured with stable isotopic tracers in the basal state and during beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol infusion in five cachectic patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, five cachectic cancer-free, nutritionally-matched control patients, and 10 healthy volunteers. resting energy expenditure and plasma catecholamines were normal in all three groups. the basal rate of glycerol appearance in blood in the patients with cancer (2.96 +/- 0.45 mumol.kg-1.min-1) was similar to that in the nutritionally matched controls (3.07 +/- 0.28 mumol.kg-1.min-1), but 48% greater than in the normal-weight volunteers (2.00 +/- 0.16 mumol.kg-1.min-1) (p = 0.028). the antilipolytic effect of propranolol and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in the patients with cancer were also similar in the cachectic control group and approximately 50% greater than in the normal-weight volunteers, but the differences were not statistically significant because of the variability in the data. we conclude that the increase in lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in "unstressed" cachectic patients with esophageal cancer is due to alterations in their nutritional status rather than the presence of tumor itself. increased beta-adrenergic activity may be an important contributor to the stimulation of lipolysis.
predicting distant metastases in operable breast cancer patients. risk factors for distant metastases following mastectomy and axillary node dissection for breast cancer were analyzed in a review of 1022 women. from diagnosis until the end of the adjuvant treatment, six stages were identified that corresponded well to patient data acquisition. at each stage, a prognosis study based on the cox model was carried out using all acquired information from the first stage. the results demonstrated that tumor size, nuclear pleomorphism, mitotic index, and nodal status at the top of axilla were stable independent risk factors in predicting metastasis-free survival (mfs). these analyses also revealed those factors that were significantly related to mfs at one or several stages and losing their significance at a subsequent stage. this was the case with clinical node status, age, and vascular tumor emboli. other factors such as estrogen, progesterone, histologic grade, and clinical stage were never identified as independent factors at any stage. the four major stable risk factors were used to define a stratification of reference. the results demonstrated that the mere knowledge of clinical information such as tumor size, clinical node status, and age would enable 51% of the patients to be universally well classified according to that stratification. knowledge of additional factors, such as nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic index, would bring the rate up to 61%, and then to 64% if supplementary information such as vascular tumor emboli were acquired. these percentages did not appear high enough to claim that the physician may make a reliable prognosis of operable breast cancer patients before acquiring information from the axillary node dissection. however, it was proven that there exist some subsets of patients with stable prognosis, i.e., subsets of patients who will belong permanently to the same risk group through the stages.
meningiomas mimicking cerebral schwannoma. a brain tumor with histological features reminiscent of schwannoma with underlying meningioangiomatosis was subjected to electron microscopic and immunohistochemical analysis, which confirmed the neoplasm as a meningioma. this prompted reexamination of a similar tumor, described in a previous publication as a cerebral schwannoma, with identical immunohistochemical techniques. the results obtained favored alteration of this diagnosis to that of meningioma. this experience has led the authors to recommend the use of immunohistochemistry techniques when evaluating unusual intracranial neoplasms.
florid pulmonary veno-occlusive disease. a young woman presented with rapidly progressive dyspnea and clinical findings strongly suggestive of primary pulmonary hypertension or possible pulmonary embolism (or both). she died of acute right-sided heart failure. a diagnosis of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease was made at autopsy. approximately 100 cases of this disease have been reported previously in the literature. we describe a patient with a particularly florid progression of this unusual disease. death occurred within six weeks of the onset of symptoms.
tricuspid valve repair for tricuspid valve endocarditis: tricuspid valve "recycling". tricuspid valve endocarditis traditionally has been treated with either valve excision or valve replacement. to avoid implantation of foreign material in an infected field, we have applied the principles of mitral valve repair to 4 patients with tricuspid valve endocarditis. on preoperative echocardiography, all patients had 3 to 4+ tricuspid regurgitation, evidence of progressive right ventricular enlargement, and mobile vegetations. in each case, up to three quarters of the anterior leaflet was excised en bloc with infected chordae and papillary muscle heads. surgical procedures included standard quadrangular resection, conversion to a bicuspid valve, and pericardial patch replacement of the anterior leaflet with mobilization of basal chordae to replace resected marginal chordae. on postoperative echocardiography, tricuspid regurgitation and right ventricular dimensions were reduced in 2 of 4 patients in spite of loss of leaflet tissue. all excised valve tissue demonstrated bacteria on gram stain or culture. nonetheless, all repaired valves were successfully sterilized without recurrent infections. tricuspid valve repair can allow eradication of infection with potential for improving valve competency in complicated tricuspid valve endocarditis.
clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis. the second and third examples of clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis are reported. in one patient a right inguinal mass was excised along with an inguinal lymph node dissection. the tumor recurred in the retroperitoneum and was removed, and postoperative radiation therapy was administered. the patient died of recurrent tumor after 11 years. the other patient was treated by excision of a left inguinal mass and an inguinal lymph node dissection and was alive without recurrence 4 years and 8 months later.
the heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis. we tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques. three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from hela cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region. these were a 17 kda (cenp-a recognized by 34 sera), an 80 kda (cenp-b recognized by 33 sera), and a 140 kda polypeptide (cenp-c recognized by 26 sera). there was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides, although raynaud's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-cenp-b reactivities (p less than 0.01). the heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker.
psychosomatic factors in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents. psychosomatic factors, sympathoneural and sympathoadrenal as well as cardiovascular mechanisms, were studied in 24 patients 18-24 years of age with borderline hypertension, 50 age-matched normotensive offspring of hypertensive parents, and 49 controls with no family history of hypertension. they were compared by projective and questionnaire-based psychological tests and their circulatory and neurohormonal reactivity to mental (stroop color-word conflict test and arithmetic test) and physical stressors (orthostasis and bicycle ergometry test) were measured. borderline hypertensive subjects externalized aggression less (p less than 0.05) but internalized it more (p less than 0.05) and were more submissive (p less than 0.05) when compared with controls. offspring of hypertensive parents showed a similar but weaker pattern. both risk groups reported more positive interactions with their parents (genetic risk subjects versus controls, p less than 0.05; borderline hypertensive patients versus controls, p = 0.08) and had higher state-anxiety levels (p less than 0.05). there were more subjective symptoms of beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated functions (e.g., tachycardia, tremor) in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents, elevated heart rates (analysis of repeated measures, p less than 0.001), and enhanced plasma norepinephrine concentrations (p less than 0.05) when compared with controls. these findings in subjects at risk for the development of hypertension suggest that psychosomatic factors and sympathetic overactivity are involved in the early phase of hypertension.
noninvasive assessment of intrinsic ventricular load dynamics in dilated cardiomyopathy on the basis of hemodynamic theory, a new noninvasive method is developed to provide improved insights into the significance of depressed doppler left ventricular ejection variables in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. the net force (f) associated with intraventricular flow throughout ejection can be written as: f = a.dv/dt + b.v2, where v is the ejection velocity and a and b are variables related to the geometry of the ventricle and its outflow tract. instantaneous levels of this force were calculated in 9 normal subjects and 10 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy using doppler, m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography. the maximal ejection force (fmax) was 47.5 +/- 8.5 kdyn in normal subjects and 25.5 +/- 6.2 kdyn in those with dilated cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0001). peak local acceleration and outflow velocity were severely depressed in those with cardiomyopathy compared with normal subjects (1,260 +/- 129 versus 2,671 +/- 430 cm/s2 and 71 +/- 14 versus 109 +/- 7 cm/s, respectively; p = 0.0001). maximal ejection force was attained very early in ejection. a significant linear correlation was found between peak outflow acceleration and maximal ejection force (n = 19; r = 0.91, p = 0.0001). at the time of peak ejection velocity, the net force had decreased to 64% of its peak value in those with cardiomyopathy, whereas in normal subjects, it had decreased to only 84% of its peak value (p = 0.008). in normal subjects, the ejection force was positive during the first 75% of ejection, but in those with cardiomyopathy, it was positive only during the first 54% (p = 0.0003). once its peak value was attained, total left ventricular systolic wall stress declined rapidly during ejection in normal subjects (to 33% of its peak value by end-ejection), whereas it remained elevated throughout ejection in patients with cardiomyopathy (at 60% of its peak value by end-ejection, p = 0.0001 versus normal). the maximal ejection force corresponded to a calculated intraventricular peak pressure gradient of 9.8 +/- 1.6 mm hg in normal subjects and 6 +/- 1.2 mm hg in those with cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0001). the average contribution of the intrinsic component of the left ventricular systolic load (that is, wall stress associated with the ventricular to aortic pressure gradient) to the total myocardial load was 9.1% (range 7.3% to 11.2%) in normal subjects and 6.2% (range 3.9% to 7.5%) in those with cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0001).(abstract truncated at 400 words).
two urogenital sinus syndromes. interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis. forty-six young women had unusual and presumably noninfectious disorders of unknown etiology involving tissues derived from the embryonic urogenital sinus (urogenital sinus syndromes). ten women had interstitial cystitis, and 25 had focal vulvitis. eleven women had both interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis. the affected groups were similar in demographic and other characteristics. most were white and in their mid-20s. both unusual conditions occurred in the same woman more often than could be expected by chance. this observation suggests that some common, perhaps autoimmune mechanism may be involved in the etiology of these syndromes.
chylothorax secondary to obstruction of the superior vena cava: a complication of the leveen shunt. a case of thrombosis of the superior vena cava was complicated by bilateral chylothoraces and a widened mediastinum. removal of a clotted leveen shunt led to prompt resolution of the obstruction and chylothoraces.
symptomatic and essential rhythmic palatal myoclonus. rhythmic palatal myoclonus (rpm) is a rare movement disorder consisting of continuous synchronous jerks of the soft palate, muscles innervated by other cranial nerves and, rarely, trunk and limb muscles. it usually develops secondary to brainstem or cerebellar disease (symptomatic rpm). some patients, however, fail to show evidence of a structural lesion (essential rpm). a total of 287 cases with rpm from the literature including 210 cases with symptomatic and 77 cases with essential rpm have been reviewed and analysed statistically to look for criteria separating the two conditions. patients with essential rpm usually have objective earclicks as their typical complaint which is rare in the symptomatic form. eye and extremity muscles are never involved. the jerk frequency is lower in essential than in symptomatic rpm. patients with essential rpm are younger and have a balanced sex distribution as compared with a male preponderance in the symptomatic form. the rhythmicity of rpm seems to be more profoundly influenced by sleep, coma and general anaesthesia in essential than in symptomatic rpm. we conclude from these results that essential rpm should be separated as a distinct clinical entity. symptomatic rpm is a rhythmic movement disorder whose pathogenesis is quite well established. the cells of the hypertrophied inferior olives are believed to represent the oscillator. among other possibilities, essential rpm may represent its functional analogue, based on transmitter changes only. such a relationship could be of theoretical interest for the understanding of rhythmic hyperkinesias in general.
traditional versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy. laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a minimally invasive procedure whereby the gallbladder is removed using laparoscopic techniques. the indications are similar to those for elective traditional cholecystectomy, but selection of patients is important for success. contraindications are currently evolving. patients with advanced cholecystitis, abdominal sepsis, ileus, bleeding disorders, pregnancy, and morbid obesity should not undergo this procedure. the procedure requires good traditional surgical skills, as well as additional laparoscopic (and laser) skills. operative time is slightly longer than for traditional cholecystectomy, but decreases with experience. morbidity is low, but there is a concern about bile duct injuries. mortality is very low (0%) and is comparable to traditional cholecystectomy (0.4%). the major advantages of laparoscopic cholecystectomy are the short hospital stay (average: 2 days) and early return to normal activity (7 days). this results in a reduction in hospital costs. adequate training and credentialing are important processes to foster good patient outcomes.
all-trans retinoic acid as a differentiation therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia. i. clinical results. twenty-two patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ra, 45 mg/m2 per day) for 90 days. of the 22, four patients were previously untreated, two were resistant after conventional chemotherapy, and 16 were in first (n = 11), second (n = 4), or third (n = 1) relapse. we observed 14 complete response, four transient responses, one failure, and three early deaths. length of hospitalization and number of transfusions were notably reduced in complete responders. correction of coagulation disorders and an increase of wbcs were the first signs of all-trans ra efficacy. morphologic analysis performed at days 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, and 90 showed that complete remissions were obtained without bone marrow (bm) hypoplasia. presence of auer rods in the maturing cells confirmed the differentiation effect of the treatment. at remission, the t(15;17) initially present in 20 patients was not found. the in vitro studies showed a differentiation in the presence of all-trans ra in 16 of the 18 tested cases. the single nonresponder to all trans ra in vitro did not respond in vivo. adverse effects of ra therapy--skin and mucosa dryness, hypertriglyceridemia, and increase of hepatic transaminases--were frequently noted. we also observed bone pain in 11 patients and hyperleukocytosis in four patients. whether maintenance treatment consisted of low-dose chemotherapy or all-trans ra, early relapses were observed. five patients are still in complete remission (cr) at 4 to 13 months. our study confirms the major efficacy of all-trans ra in m3, even in relapsing patients. remissions are obtained by a differentiation process.
supravalvar aortic stenosis: a complication of aortic valve surgery. after a patient had aortic valvotomy and aortotomy for the relief of valvar aortic stenosis supravalvar stenosis developed over the next six years.
association of umbilical venous with inferior vena cava blood flow velocities. the fetal cardiac and placental circulations are interconnected through the umbilical venous and arterial vasculature. we hypothesized that alterations in umbilical venous blood flow velocities are present in fetuses with abnormal umbilical arterial circulation, and further, that changes in inferior vena cava blood flow velocities occur with, and might explain, these variations in umbilical venous blood flow velocities. umbilical venous and inferior vena cava blood flow velocities were examined in 15 normal fetuses and in 59 fetuses with abnormalities that included absent end-diastolic umbilical artery blood flow velocities (n = 21) or abnormal heart rates (n = 27). inferior vena cava velocities were also analyzed in 11 other fetuses with anomalies or known growth or placental abnormalities who had abnormal umbilical venous blood flow velocities. in normal fetuses, variations in umbilical venous velocities occurred during fetal activity or with fetal breathing; however, no variation in velocity corresponded with heart rate. eleven of 21 fetuses with absent end-diastolic velocities in the umbilical artery demonstrated decreases in umbilical venous velocities ("venous pulsations") during arterial diastole. blood flow velocities in the reverse direction, from the right atrium into the inferior vena cava with atrial contraction, were significantly greater in these fetuses than in those without umbilical venous pulsations (27.5 +/- 14.9% and 7.5 +/- 5.7% of total forward flow velocity, respectively; p less than .001). venous pulsations were also seen in fetuses with abnormally fast or slow heart rates; reverse flow with atrial contraction in the inferior vena cava was likewise greater than normal in these fetuses.
platelet factor 4 mrna expression in cells from a patient with megakaryoblastic crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. a 61-year-old man with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia developed megakaryoblastic leukemia. in the blast phase, his blast cells showed undifferentiated megakaryoblastic characteristics with no alpha-granules or demarcation membranes but with detectable platelet peroxidase (ppo) activity and surface glycoprotein (gp) iib/iiia. the patient has remained reasonably well for at least 12 months after blastic crisis, and 6-mercaptopurine alone has been effective in controlling leukocytosis and megakaryoblast proliferation. the expression of mrna for platelet-specific proteins, such as gpiib and platelet factor 4 (pf4), was studied in the patient's blast cells by the northern blot analysis. both gpiib and pf4 mrna were detected in the blast cells. cytoplasmic maturation occurs later than the synthesis of the surface gp during megakaryocyte maturation. therefore, pf4 mrna expression should be a marker of mature megakaryoblasts. the pf4 mrna expression in megakaryoblastic leukemia may indicate that a patient will have long survival and a good response to chemotherapy.
malignant melanoma of the biliary tract: a case report. a 58-year-old man was seen with obstructive jaundice and discomfort in the upper abdomen. computed tomographic and ultrasound examinations revealed a soft-tissue mass in the gallbladder. cholecystectomy and choledochotomy revealed a soft black mass in the gallbladder and a second one in the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct. each was diagnosed as malignant melanoma. subsequently, a whipple resection of the pancreas, duodenum, and distal bile duct revealed a melanoma circumferentially invading and obstructing the distal common duct. no lymph node or distant metastasis was identified. repetitive searches for another primary site have been negative. the tumor apparently originated in the biliary tract. the patient remains almost well 2 years after diagnosis.
apical segmental dysfunction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: subgroup with unique clinical features. a segmental wall motion abnormality is an unusual finding in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. to clarify its clinical significance, 48 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were analyzed. eight patients (group a) had apical segmental dysfunction; 40 (group b) had normal wall motion. no patient in either group had coronary artery stenosis on selective coronary arteriography. in all patients in group a, apical segmental dysfunction was revealed by left ventriculography; however, it could be detected by echocardiography in only two patients in group a. left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiogram (ecg) was more common in group b (p less than 0.05). abnormal q waves were more frequently discovered in group a (p less than 0.005) and were recognized predominantly in the lateral leads. on serial ecgs, a gradual development of abnormal q waves was noted in six of eight patients in group a. malignant arrhythmias were more common in group a (p less than 0.001). in two patients in group a, left ventricular dilation and congestive heart failure developed during the follow-up period. thus, the presence of a q wave in the lateral leads on an ecg in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may indicate the presence of apical segmental dysfunction. left ventriculography should be performed to examine the presence of this abnormality and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring should be done to detect malignant arrhythmias in patients who have abnormal q waves in the lateral leads. patients with this unique type of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy need careful follow-up evaluation.
gd-hp-do3a in clinical mr imaging of the brain. as part of a phase ii clinical trial, 14 patients with presumed intracranial neoplastic disease underwent magnetic resonance (mr) imaging before and after intravenous injection of gadolinium 1,4,7-tris(carboxymethyl)-10-(2'-hydroxypropyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacycl ododecane (hp-do3a). this neutral (nonionic) gadolinium chelate has lower osmolality, when formulated at equimolar concentrations, and superior in vitro stability compared with gadopentetate dimeglumine. the safety profile of gd-hp-do3a permitted administration of doses up to 0.3 mmol/kg, three times the dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine approved by the u.s. food and drug administration. in this limited clinical trial, gd-hp-do3a proved to be a safe and efficacious agent in mr imaging of the head. the only change documented in patient monitoring was that of slight skin redness at the injection site immediately after administration in two patients. no statistically significant changes due to administration of the agent were noted in laboratory evaluations. these results differ from those obtained with gadopentetate, which induces a transient rise in serum iron and bilirubin levels in up to 26% of patients. administration of higher doses of gd-hp-do3a, either 0.2 or 0.3 mmol/kg, appeared to provide improved enhancement. no decrease in efficacy at these high doses was noted.
evolution of the continuity equation in the doppler echocardiographic assessment of the severity of valvular aortic stenosis. the use of doppler techniques has greatly enhanced the noninvasive ultrasound technique for evaluation of valvular aortic stenosis. m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography could not reliably distinguish patients with severe aortic stenosis from those with milder obstructions. the hemodynamic information offered by doppler complemented echocardiographic imaging and provided an alternative modality for evaluation of patients with aortic stenosis. by application of the modified bernoulli equation, the pressure gradient across the stenotic aortic valve could be estimated by doppler echocardiography. though helpful and widely used, the information provided by the pressure gradient across the valve about the severity of the obstruction was not complete. the assessment of valvular aortic stenosis therefore includes an estimation of the valve area by application of the continuity equation. this review examines the maturation of the continuity equation by doppler techniques and discusses the implications of the procedure.
annulo-aortic ectasia with debakey type ii dissecting aneurysm in gaucher's disease. annulo-aortic ectasia is an extremely rare complication of gaucher's disease. we report successful surgery in a patient with gaucher's disease complicated by annulo-aortic ectasia and aortic dissection. cabrol's operation was accomplished without bleeding or sternal adaptation problems.
photosensitive epilepsies and photoconvulsive responses in arabs. the occurrence of photosensitivity (ps) was examined in 327 arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age with epilepsy by intermittent photic stimulation (ips). a control group of 192 nonepileptic arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age were also examined by ips. of the epileptic patients, 24 (7.3%) were photosensitive, an incidence comparable to that in whites in contradistinction to the reported rarity among african blacks. this finding indicates that environmental factors, particularly excessive sunshine, does not appear to influence the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients. the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients may depend more strongly on the presence of an epileptic syndrome known to have association with ps.
bioactive and inactive forms of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in spinal fluid from patients with meningitis. twenty-four patients, including 12 with meningitis, were admitted with meningeal symptoms and fever. their serum and spinal fluid tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf alpha) levels were determined by elisa. tnf alpha immunoreactivity was found in spinal fluid of 10 meningitis patients and one nonmeningitis patient, whereas 7 sera, 5 from meningitis patients, contained tnf alpha. levels were significantly higher in spinal fluids than in serum samples, and the tnf alpha bioactivity of spinal fluids and sera was considerably below predictions based on elisa measurements. gel filtration chromatography demonstrated the presence of both polymeric (greater than 200 kda) and oligomeric (10-40 kda) tnf alpha in spinal fluid. significant bioactivity was obtained only from samples containing oligomeric cytokine. in agreement with previous in vitro findings, these results strongly indicate that bioactive tnf alpha oligomers form inactive polymers and monomers, which could contribute to the observed in vivo discrepancies between immunoreactive and bioactive protein. finally, the data support the concept of local central nervous system production of tnf alpha in meningitis.
selective impairment of memory and visual perception in splenial tumours. the neuropsychological abnormalities found in 9 patients with tumours involving the splenium of the corpus callosum are described. the outstanding features of their cognitive deficits were a severe memory deficit and visual perception impairment in the presence of relatively intact intellect. it is argued that (1) the amnesia is due to damage to the fornix where that structure is closely applied to the splenium and that it is the result of a disconnection between the frontal and temporal lobes, although the possibility that damage to more than one structure, for example, retrosplenial cortex and fornix, cannot be excluded; (2) there is a dual pathway for visual object recognition, one of which passes directly to the dominant hemisphere for semantic analysis and the other via the nondominant hemisphere for prior perceptual analysis. further, it is postulated that there is a subcortical as well as a callosal route between the hemispheres that is important for visual object recognition.
retroperitoneal fibrosis after surgery for aortic aneurysm in a patient with periarteritis nodosa: successful treatment with corticosteroids. a 54-year-old man with hepatitis b virus-related periarteritis nodosa developed retroperitoneal fibrosis with bilateral hydronephrosis 2.5 months after placement of an aortobifemoral prosthesis for abdominal aortic aneurysm. retroperitoneal fibrosis disappeared after treatment with corticosteroids. this observation is interesting in the light of the hypothesis that retroperitoneal fibrosis is caused by vasculitis.
polyarteritis nodosa presenting as a biliary stricture. polyarteritis nodosa, a disease of the media of small and medium-sized arteries, has protean manifestations and many presenting signs and symptoms. gastrointestinal involvement is common but involvement of the biliary tree is rare. we report a unique case of polyarteritis presenting as a biliary stricture.
flow patterns in dilated cardiomyopathy: a pulsed-wave and color flow doppler study. in 48 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, pulsed-wave and color doppler examination were performed. in addition, 14 normal patients served as control subjects. peak inflow velocity at the level of the mitral valve, middle left ventricle, and apex and outflow velocity at the level of the apex, middle left ventricle, and subaortic area were measured. in normal patients there was brisk propagation of inflow velocity to the apex. patients with dilated cardiomyopathy demonstrated delayed propagation and prolongation of the duration of inflow compared with control subjects (p less than 0.04). continuous apical flow was visualized in 25% of dilated cardiomyopathies and in no normal patients. apical velocities were significantly increased in cardiomyopathies with significant mitral regurgitation. outflow velocities were decreased in dilated cardiomyopathy. in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and apical dyskinesis, flow directed toward the base was measured in the middle left ventricle during isovolumic relaxation secondary to dyskinetic rebound. patterns of abnormal flow in dilated cardiomyopathies are readily apparent by color m-mode and two-dimensional color doppler.
mitral annular calcification: significant and worth acting upon. mitral annular calcification (mac) is a degenerative process which commonly occurs in the elderly and has multiple etiologies. patients with mac have a higher prevalence of left atrial enlargement, left ventricular enlargement, atrial fibrillation, conduction defects, mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and bacterial endocarditis than those without it. in addition, patients with the disorder have a higher incidence of cardiovascular events, thromboembolic cerebrovascular events, permanent pacemaker implantation, and valve replacement. this review discusses the significance of these warning signs, explores updated diagnostic procedures for mac, and recommends some therapeutic strategies.
prospective, randomized trial of the biofragmentable anastomosis ring. the bar investigational group. a randomized trial was undertaken to compare the biofragmental anastomotic ring (bar) with conventional intraperitoneal colorectal anastomotic techniques. patients were randomized into one of two schemes: bar versus sutured or bar versus stapled anastomosis. there were 782 patients entered into the study and 283 patients (36%) had a sutured anastomosis, 104 patients (13%) had a stapled anastomosis, and 395 (51%) had the bar. comparison of the bar with combined suture and stapled controls revealed no significant differences in wound complication, abscess rate, bleeding, anastomotic leaks, ileus, obstruction, or deaths. there were no differences in return of bowel function, return to normal diet, or hospital stay. intraoperative difficulties occurred in 46 bar patients (17%), and this was significantly higher (p less than 0.001) than for sutured (3%) but not for stapled anastomoses (11%). the occurrence of these problems did not adversely effect the outcome. the data suggest that the bar is a safe, satisfactory alternative to sutured or stapled colorectal anastomoses.
primary breast lymphoma. an immunohistologic study of 20 new cases. primary malignant lymphomas of the breast (pbl) are uncommon. the authors report the clinical, histologic, and immunoperoxidase findings on 20 cases recorded at the alberta cancer registry over the last 23 years. these cases were then added to material on 257 cases abstracted from the literature and analyzed. it was found that there are two clinicopathologic types of pbl. the first affects pregnant or lactating women with bilateral, diffuse disease, is rapidly fatal, and corresponds histologically to a burkitt's-type lymphoma. the second is unilateral at presentation and afflicts a broad age range, but primarily older women. this has a variable course only part of which is predicted by histologic grade and stage. tumor size, treatment, and side of presentation were not found to be significant prognostic factors. histologically, these tumors can be grouped into large cell b-cell lymphomas, monocytoid b-cell lymphomas (mbcl), and undifferentiated, some of which may be t-cell. evidence suggesting that the mbcl of breast are the equivalent of the malignant lymphomas of the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues (malt) is reviewed. the breast is a hormone-dependent member of the malt and therefore it is interesting that two of these tumors were strongly positive for estrogen receptors.
the electrocardiogram in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. the electrocardiogram is often abnormal in patients who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. the most frequent abnormalities are a rightward p-wave axis (greater than or equal to 70 degrees) and a rightward qrs axis (greater than or equal to 90 degrees). in addition, low voltage in the limb leads, an s1s2s3 pattern, poor r-wave progression, a posterior-superior terminal qrs vector or other changes may be present. transient atrial and ventricular dysrhythmias are common. knowledge of the usual electrocardiographic manifestations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease enables the clinician to recognize uncharacteristic abnormalities, which often represent the effects of superimposed illnesses or drug toxicity.
pneumonia due to legionella micdadei in bone marrow transplant recipients. legionella micdadei has previously been described as a cause of nosocomial pneumonia, particularly in kidney transplant recipients. cell-mediated immunity is the principal host defense against this pathogen. a common clinical scenario in the immunocompromised host is that of septic pulmonary embolus, but asymptomatic infections have also been reported. the organism is weakly acid-fast in clinical specimens but loses this property when grown on solid media. we report two cases of l. micdadei pneumonia, differing markedly in clinical severity and outcome, in bone marrow transplant recipients. additionally, we note the growth of the organism in liquid culture media with preservation of its acid-fast property.
identification of ischemic and hibernating myocardium: feasibility of post-exercise f-18 deoxyglucose positron emission tomography. the identification of ischemic and hibernating myocardium facilitates the selection of patients most likely to benefit from revascularization. this study examined the feasibility of metabolic imaging, using post-exercise f-18 deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (fdg-pet) for the diagnosis of both ischemia and hibernation in 27 patients with known coronary anatomy. normal post-exercise fdg uptake was defined in each patient by reference to normal resting perfusion and normal coronary supply. abnormal elevation of fdg (ischemia or hibernation) was compared in 13 myocardial segments in each patient, with the results of dipyridamole stress perfusion imaging performed by rubidium-82 positron emission tomography (rb-pet). myocardial ischemia was diagnosed by either fdg-pet or rb-pet in 34 segments subtended by significant local coronary stenoses. increased fdg uptake was present in 32/34 (94%) and a reversible perfusion defect was identified by rb-pet in 22/34 (65%, p less than .01). in 3 patients, ischemia was identified by metabolic imaging alone. in 16 patients with previous myocardial infarction, perfusion defects were present at rest in 89 regions, 30 of which (34%) demonstrated increased fdg uptake, consistent with the presence of hibernation. increased post-exercise fdg uptake appears to be a sensitive indicator of ischemia and myocardial hibernation. this test may be useful in selecting post-infarction patients for revascularization.
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis. a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis, ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis.
determination of plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide concentrations by a new immunochemiluminometric assay in normal persons and patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma and other neuroendocrine tumors. there is doubt about concentrations of circulating calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp) and the value of plasma cgrp measurements in the detection and follow-up of medullary thyroid carcinoma (mtc). thus, we developed an immunochemiluminometric sandwich assay for cgrp using antibodies purified from a polyclonal antiserum against human cgrp. the assay was sensitive (limit of detection, 0.4 pmol/l; multiply by 3.7892 to derive nanograms per l) and highly specific [no cross-reaction with human calcitonin (ct)]. normal plasma cgrp values ranged from less than 0.4 to 4.5 pmol/l (median, 0.8; n = 31), with 61% having detectable levels. values in samples from patients with mtc were elevated: unoperated patients (n = 10), 4.7-137 pmol/l (median, 7.1); and operated patients with gross persistent or recurrent tumor (n = 14), 4.7-171 pmol/l (median, 23.2). in contrast, cgrp values were normal in 78% of nine postoperative patients with elevated ct, but no detectable tumor (range, less than 0.4 to 6.3 pmol/l; median, 1.6). cgrp levels increased after pentagastrin injection in mtc patients, but less than did ct values. cultured mtc cells in vitro secreted large amounts of cgrp, and rat nerve root ganglia, human osteoblasts, and microvessel endothelial cells secreted lesser amounts. we conclude that cgrp circulates in normal plasma, but at very low levels. plasma cgrp concentrations are frequently high in patients with mtc, but primarily in those with gross tumor or metastases. plasma ct assay is the preferable test for mtc, but cgrp assay deserves prospective study for a possible role in predicting gross metastasis.
cone cerclage in pregnancy. we report a technique of cone cerclage and the results and outcome in 17 patients who required a diagnostic cone biopsy in pregnancy. the mean age of the patients was 30.6 years (range 21-41). the mean gestational age was 18.8 weeks (range 10-32) at the time of the procedure. there were no major complications and hemorrhage was not a significant problem. there were no second-trimester abortions. two patients required beta-sympathomimetics to suppress uterine activity for longer than 24 hours after the procedure. six patients had invasive carcinoma, nine had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) iii, and two had cin ii. in 14 cases, the endocervical and ectocervical margins were negative; two patients with cin and one with multifocal microinvasion had positive margins. cone cerclage is a safe and easy method for performing diagnostic cervical conization during pregnancy.
tumoral thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses: preoperative diagnosis using magnetic resonance phase imaging. intracranial, dural-based neoplasms will not infrequently invade adjacent venous sinuses. therefore, the preoperative diagnosis of venous invasion is important, as it will alter the surgical approach to the lesion. magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive means of visualizing the cerebral venous sinuses. the preoperative diagnosis of venous thrombosis can, however, be difficult and confusing with conventional spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging because of variable appearances produced by blood clot degradation products as well as flowing blood. phase magnetic resonance imaging is a simple method that can be acquired simultaneously with conventional spin-echo sequences, and is based primarily on whether protons are stationary or moving. in the context of venous sinus occlusion, phase imaging can demonstrate the presence or absence of blood flow more easily than spin-echo imaging. three cases of dural-based neoplasms are presented that demonstrate the utility of phase imaging in diagnosing tumoral occlusion of the venous sinuses.
emergency resuscitation in children. the role of intraosseous infusion. intraosseous infusion is a temporary procedure for use in pediatric emergencies when intravenous access is difficult. multiple drugs and fluids can be safely administered through the intraosseous route. dosage and rate of infusion are essentially the same as with intravenous infusion.
nucleus-driven multiple large-scale deletions of the human mitochondrial genome: a new autosomal dominant disease. we studied several affected and one nonaffected individuals belonging to three unrelated pedigrees. the pathological trait was an autosomal dominant mitochondrial myopathy due to large-scale multiple deletions of the mitochondrial genome. clinically, symptomatic patients had progressive external ophthalmoplegia, muscle weakness and wasting, sensorineural hypoacusia, and, in some cases, vestibular areflexia and tremor. the muscle biopsies of all patients examined showed ragged-red fibers, neurogenic changes, and a partially decreased histochemical reaction to cytochrome c oxidase. multiple mtdna heteroplasmy was detected in the patients by both southern blot analysis and pcr amplification, whereas the unaffected individual had the normal homoplasmic hybridization pattern. these findings confirm and add further details to the existence of a new human disease--defined clinically as a mitochondrial myopathy, genetically as a mendelian autosomal dominant trait, and molecularly by the accumulation of multiple, large-scale deletions of the mitochondrial genome--that is due to impaired nuclear control during mtdna replication.
doppler echocardiographic evaluation of pulmonary artery flow after modified fontan operation: importance of atrial contraction. doppler echocardiography was used to evaluate blood flow in the pulmonary artery in 14 patients 2 to 42 months (mean (sd) 17 (12) months) after a modified fontan operation incorporating a direct atriopulmonary anastomosis. preoperatively six patients had tricuspid atresia, six had a double inlet left ventricle, and two had pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum. the postoperative rhythm was sinus in 11 patients, junctional in one, ventricular pacing in one, and atrioventricular sequential pacing in one. in one patient the doppler trace was unsatisfactory for analysis. in all patients forward flow in the pulmonary artery had biphasic peaks related to both atrial and ventricular contraction. the mean (sd) peak flow velocity that was synchronous with atrial contraction was 80 (30) cm/s and that synchronous with ventricular contraction was 74 (23) cm/s. the atrial contribution to total pulmonary artery flow, assessed by velocity-time integrals, varied between 22% and 73% (mean (sd) 45 (14)%). in patients with tricuspid atresia the mean (sd) peak flow velocity with atrial contraction was 90 (27) cm/s and that with ventricular contraction was mean (sd) 68 (24) cm/s. in patients with double inlet left ventricle the mean (sd) peak flow velocity was 67 (36) cm/s with atrial contraction and 80 (25) cm/s with ventricular contraction. the atrial contribution to total pulmonary blood flow in patients with tricuspid atresia was significantly higher (53 (11)%) than in those with double inlet left ventricle (37 (14)%). pulmonary artery flow after modified fontan operation was biphasic and was related to both atrial and ventricular contraction.
iliofemoral arterial complications of balloon angioplasty for systemic obstructions in infants and children the medical and radiological records of 64 consecutive infants and children who underwent transfemoral balloon dilation of the aorta or aortic valve were reviewed to determine the incidence, nature, and post-treatment outcome of acute iliofemoral complications. balloon dilation angioplasty or balloon valvotomy was performed with 8f and 9f catheters without an arterial sheath. patients ranged in age from 5 days to 15.4 years (mean, 6.4 years). of 64 patients, 29 (45.3%) had an acute iliofemoral complication, including thrombosis (18 of 64), complete disruption (five of 64), incomplete disruption (three of 64), and arterial tear (three of 64). the arterial pathology was confirmed in 23 of 29 patients by one or a combination of surgical exploration and repair (18 of 29), angiography (six of 29), and magnetic resonance imaging (three of 29). of eight patients, three with arterial disruption had acute hypotension requiring transfusion and immediate surgery; the other five had absent pedal pulses after the procedure. of these five, three developed bleeding during thrombolytic therapy and underwent surgical exploration, and two were diagnosed by angiography after ineffective thrombolytic therapy. angiography in three patients with iliac artery avulsion showed tapered occlusion in two and an aneurysm in one. in patients with iliofemoral thrombosis, angiography showed occlusion from the puncture site to the origin of the external iliac artery. eleven patients (17% of the entire group and 38% of the group with acute iliofemoral complications) had reduced or absent pedal pulses at the time of discharge. a significant correlation was found between increased incidence of iliofemoral thrombosis and disruption (as well as abnormal pedal pulses at hospital discharge) and low patient weight.
hypoplastic transverse arch and coarctation in neonates. surgical reconstruction of the aortic arch: a study of sixty-six patients. from jan. 1, 1983, to jan. 1, 1988, 66 consecutive neonates with coarctation and severe hypoplasia of the transverse arch underwent coarctation repair by resection of the coarctation and reconstruction of the aortic arch. mean age at operation was 14 +/- 8 days, ranging from 2 to 30 days; 63% of the newborn infants were less than 2 weeks of age. the coarctation was isolated in 23%, associated with a ventricular septal defect in 39%, and associated with complex anomalies in 38%, including 16 cases of transposition of the great arteries or doublet-outlet right ventricle plus ventricular septal defect, two cases of simple transposition, two of corrected transposition plus ventricular septal defect, and five cases of "hypoplastic" left ventricle. the surgical technique comprises a wide resection of the coarctation extended to the contiguous ductal tissue followed by the reconstruction of the aortic arch in bringing the descending aorta into the concavity of the aortic arch. this technique is able to relieve the obstruction of the aortic arch provided that (1) the descending aorta is widely dissected to allow mobilization and (2) the incision of the transverse arch is extended proximal to the ostium of the left carotid artery. the operation was performed through a left thoracotomy in 62 patients and through a sternotomy in four additional neonates with transposition and ventricular septal defect who underwent a one-stage repair with aortic reconstruction, closure of the defect, and arterial switch. the overall early mortality rate (less than 30 days) was 14% (9/66; 95% confidence limits = 5% to 22%), including four deaths occurring within the first month, at a concomitant or subsequent repair of the associated anomaly. there were six late deaths, all related to the associated lesions. the overall mortality rate was 23% (15/66; 95% confidence limits = 13% to 33%). the mean follow-up was 21 +/- 10 months, ranging from 6 to 66 months. actuarial survival rates at 5 years are 72% +/- 10% for the overall group; 87% +/- 17% for simple coarctation; 88% +/- 12% for coarctation and ventricular septal defect; and 52% +/- 18% for complex coarctation. the rate of recurrent coarctation was 12.5% (95% confidence limits = 2% to 23%), leading to five reoperations with no deaths. freedom from reoperation was 89.5% +/- 9% at 5 years. this technique of coarctation repair offers several advantages: low operative mortality, complete relief of the left ventricular obstruction, wide resection of the ductus tissue, absence of prosthetic material, and preservation of the left subclavian artery.
characterization of herpes simplex virus type 2 latency-associated transcription in human sacral ganglia and in cell culture. the ability of herpes simplex virus type 2 (hsv-2) to establish latency in and reactivate from sacral dorsal root sensory ganglia is the basis for recurrent genital herpes. the expression of hsv-2 genes in latently infected human sacral ganglia was investigated by in situ hybridization. hybridizations with a probe from the long repeat region of hsv-2 revealed strong nuclear signals overlying neurons in sacral ganglia from five of nine individuals. the rna detected overlaps with the transcript for infected cell protein o but in the opposite, or "anti-sense," orientation. these observations mimic those made previously with hsv-1 in human trigeminal ganglia and confirm the recent findings during latency in hsv-2-infected mice and guinea pigs. northern hybridization of rna from infected vero cells showed that an hsv-2 latency-associated transcript was similar in size to the larger (1.85 kb) latency transcript of hsv-1. thus, hsv-1 and hsv-2 latency in human sensory ganglia are similar, if not identical, in terms of their cellular localization and pattern of transcription.
a topographical relationship between helicobacter pylori and gastritis: quantitative assessment of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa. a topographical relationship between the number of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa and the histological severity of gastritis was studied in 902 pairs of biopsy specimens taken from 314 patients. a pair of biopsies were taken from the antrum, the lesser curvature of the middle body, and the greater curvature of the upper body of the stomach. the quantitative assessment of h. pylori was made based on smear, culture, and tissue section. the histological severity of gastritis was assessed as to the degrees of mononuclear cell and polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. a positive correlation was confirmed between the number of h. pylori and the severity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. the degrees of inflammatory cells infiltration in the specimens with h. pylori colonization were significantly lower in the upper body than in the antrum.
importance of a neurologic evaluation in women with lower urinary tract dysfunction. the normal coordinated functions of the bladder and urethra are controlled by a set of central and peripheral reflex mechanisms. disruptions of these neuronal reflexes may produce abnormalities in the storage and expulsion of urine. electrophysiologic testing can be employed to complement other urodynamic tests used in the evaluation of these patients and also to document that abnormalities previously thought to be anatomic in origin in reality may be secondary to neurologic dysfunction.
ovarian myxoma. a study of two cases with long-term follow-up. two cases of the so-called ovarian myxoma are reported. one was from a 13-year-old girl who had a 31-year follow-up and no evidence of recurrence. the second case, from a 65-year-old woman, recurred intraperitoneally, 19 years after the surgery. both tumors were myxoid, with round to stellate cells. immunohistochemical, electron microscopic (em), and dna flow cytometric (fcm) studies were performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue of the second patient on both the primary tumor and the recurrence. tumor cells expressed vimentin and were focally positive for desmin and myoglobin. em findings suggested a fibroblastic differentiation. an aneuploid cell population was present in the recurrent tumor by dna-fcm studies. only four other cases of so-called ovarian myxoma were reported to date, and the follow-up does not exceed 18 months. the authors conclude that the presence of aneuploidy and the late recurrence of one of their cases suggest that certain ovarian myxomas might behave like low-grade sarcomas. the histogenesis of this tumor remains unsettled, but similarities were found with myxomas in other locations.
the relapse of hairy cell leukemia after a 32-year remission. the optimum therapy for hairy cell leukemia (hcl) is controversial. dramatic responses to interferon-alpha and 2'-deoxycoformycin overshadow the established role of splenectomy in hcl, and patients currently can avoid surgery altogether. a case is presented of clinical remission lasting 32 years after splenectomy--a prolonged normal life, without medication or medical intervention. when relapse occurred, the patient's response to interferon-alpha was prompt and predictable. prognostic variables are an important consideration at the time of diagnosis in predicting the response to splenectomy.
prevention of hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for elective caesarean section by wrapping of the legs. twenty-four parturients undergoing elective caesarean section were allocated randomly to have the legs wrapped with elasticated esmarch bandages immediately following spinal anaesthesia or to serve as controls. significant hypotension (systolic arterial pressure less than 100 mm hg and less than 80% of baseline value) was treated with i.v. ephedrine in 5-mg boluses. leg wrapped patients had a significantly (p = 0.0033) lower incidence (16.7%) of hypotension than controls (83.3%). only two patients in the leg wrapped group required ephedrine compared with 10 in the control group. systolic arterial pressure was significantly (p less than 0.05) less in control subjects at 4, 5 and 6 min following spinal injection. no patient in the leg wrapped group became hypotensive following removal of the elasticated bandages.
flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure in rural patients. in this study of flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure for rural, impoverished patients, 16% of asymptomatic patients who were screened by sigmoidoscopy and 23% of patients with a positive test for fecal occult blood were found to have a polyp or carcinoma. flexible sigmoidoscopy appears to be an important part of the physical examination of patients older than 50. it is a test that can readily be done by primary care physicians in a rural setting.
brain microemboli during cardiac surgery or aortography we have observed many focal dilatations or very small aneurysms in terminal arterioles and capillaries of 4 of 5 patients and 6 dogs who had recently undergone cardiopulmonary bypass. a smaller number of sausagelike dilatations distended medium-sized arterioles. two other patients had a small number of the same microvascular changes following proximal aortography. thirty-four patients and 6 dogs not undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass had none. (a 35th patient who had not undergone cardiopulmonary bypass or aortography showed a small number of dilatations; mediastinal air was a suggested source.) some of the dilatations exhibited various forms of birefringence. because most of the dilatations appear empty, we speculate that they are the sites of gas bubbles or fat emboli that have been removed by the solvents used in processing. these microvascular events, occurring only in conjunction with major arterial interventions, may be the anatomical correlate of the neurological deficits or moderate to severe intellectual dysfunction seen in at least 24% of patients after cardiac surgical procedures assisted by cardiopulmonary bypass.
clinical and positron emission tomographic studies in the 'extrapyramidal syndrome' of dementia of the alzheimer type. extrapyramidal signs, particularly rigidity and tremor, have been reported in a proportion of patients with dementia of the alzheimer type. to test the hypothesis that these extrapyramidal signs are similar clinically and neurochemically to the extrapyramidal signs of parkinson's disease, a group of 20 patients satisfying clinical criteria for probable alzheimer's disease were studied and assessed clinically for the presence of rigidity, tremor, and bradykinesia. in those patients with extrapyramidal signs, qualitative differences were observed between the signs in these patients and in subjects with parkinson's disease. fifteen of 20 patients underwent fluoro-18-dopa scans, which showed no significant difference in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the caudate and putamen between normal subjects and the rigid and nonrigid patients with alzheimer's disease, in contrast to the marked reduction in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the putamen that is observed in parkinson's disease. this provides clinical and in vivo neurochemical support for the hypothesis that extranigral factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of rigidity in alzheimer's disease.
monitoring the effect of cpap on left ventricular function using continuous mixed-blood saturation. the hypothetic benefit of cpap on cardiac performance and on a reduction in vo2 was tested in a patient before heart transplantation after acute myocardial infarction using continuous svo2 monitoring. the cpap added to inotropic support (enoximone plus dobutamine) and intraaortic balloon pumping dramatically increased svo2 in relation to both an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in vo2 secondary to respiratory work reduction, validating the initial hypotheses.
hemolysis due to branch pulmonary stenosis after the arterial switch procedure. an infant with d-transposition of the great arteries underwent arterial switch operation using the modified jatene technique. severe bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and mechanical hemolysis subsequently developed. the hemolysis resolved after surgical repair of the stenotic arteries. probable causes are discussed.
development of intrapancreatic transplantable model of pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma in syrian golden hamsters. intrapancreatic and subcutaneous (sc) inoculation of cultured pancreatic cancer cells, derived from an induced primary pancreatic cancer in a syrian hamster, resulted in tumor take in all recipient hamsters. the intrapancreatic allografts grew rapidly, were invasive, and metastasized into the lymph nodes and liver in 2 of 9 cases. in comparison, sc tumors grew relatively slower and formed a large encapsulated mass without invasion and metastases. histologically, tumors of both sites showed fairly well-differentiated adenocarcinomas of ductal/ductular type resembling the induced primary cancer. similar to the primary induced pancreatic cancers, tumor cells of both allografts expressed blood-group-related antigens, including a, b, h, le(b), le(y), le(x), and tumor-associated antigen tag-72. the tumor cells did not express le(a), ca 19-9, 17-1a, or du-pan-2. the expression of these antigens was retained in the metastases and presented the same patterns of reactivity as the allografts. thus intrapancreatic transplantation provides a rapid model for production of pancreatic cancer with morphologic similarities to human pancreatic cancer.
fatigue in postpolio syndrome. a survey was conducted to better understand complaints of fatigue in patients previously diagnosed as having polio. eighty-six individuals with postpolio syndrome and 20 healthy controls completed a questionnaire about their fatigue, the beck depression inventory, and the cage questionnaire. the results showed that fatigue in postpolio syndrome usually occurred on a daily basis and increased in severity as the day progressed. both the study group and controls described their fatigue as tiredness and a lack of energy. however, physical weakness was reported only in the postpolio group. minimal physical exercise exacerbated fatigue in 48% of the postpolio group, whereas it diminished fatigue in 70% of the controls and in 15% of the postpolio group. twenty-seven percent of the postpolio group and none of the controls reported mild to moderate depressive symptoms. however, depression, age, alcohol abuse, and employment status did not significantly affect the differences between groups in reported prevalence or description of chronic fatigue. criteria to separate psychologic from organic causes of fatigue and treatment interventions are discussed.
treatment of chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy by cyclosporin a and plasma exchange. a case report. a patient with chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy was successfully treated with plasma exchanges and cyclosporin a (csa). dynamometric measurements of hand force during the time of csa treatment showed a highly significant correlation between hand force and csa blood levels. the largest influence of csa on hand force occurred 11-13 days after csa uptake.
quantifying the potential benefit of ca 125 screening for ovarian cancer. we develop a stochastic model of screening for ovarian cancer with serum levels of the ca 125 radioimmunoassay, a tumor-specific marker. the natural history of the disease is constructed using a four stage model characterized by a multivariate distribution for duration in each stage. preserving its important features, we simplify the model to a function of two parameters; the average duration in stage i and the coefficient of variation of duration in each stage. a yearly screening program is superimposed using exponential ca 125 growth curves which result in stage-specific sensitivities corresponding to values reported in the literature. by implementing a computer simulation of the stochastic model, we estimate the benefit due to screening. this benefit is expressed as expected years of life saved per case of ovarian cancer. the model incorporates the stochastic nature of the disease process, allows easy analysis of repeated screens, and automatically accounts for correlation between subsequent tests. it provides the basis for planning optimal screening strategies with ca 125 testing.
improved survival after hemopump insertion in patients experiencing postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock during cardiopulmonary bypass. immediate placement of a hemopump (hp) ventricular assist device was undertaken in nine patients (seven men, two women) after other attempts at weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) after coronary bypass surgery had failed. all nine patients (100%) were successfully weaned from cpb, and six (63.3%) gradually improved enough to permit removal of hp support. five (83.3%) of the six who were weaned from cpb survived beyond hospital discharge. hp support was evaluated in terms of vital organ function, incidence of complications, and clinical outcome. in both survivors (s) and nonsurvivors (ns), serial hemodynamic measurements were taken. although there were few differences in hemodynamic parameters between groups at 4 hr, by 24 hr the s group had markedly improved cardiac index, glasgow coma scale, urinary output, and pulse pressure and required far less inotropic support than did the ns group. all four patients who required high dose inotropic agents to maintain acceptable end-organ perfusion on hp support died; three were unable to tolerate weaning from the hp, and all died within 72 hr of surgery because of ineffective myocardial recovery. none of the survivors required additional early inotropic augmentation. renal perfusion appeared to be well maintained, even with mean arterial pressures below 60 mmhg during hp support. there were no episodes of hemolysis, infection, or limb ischemia in either group. thus, the hemopump provided excellent circulatory support for those patients who could not be weaned from cpb by traditional methods.
airway hyperresponsiveness in patients with microvascular angina. evidence for a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle responsiveness. anginal chest pain in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries may be caused by a limited coronary flow response to stress because of abnormal function of the coronary microcirculation (microvascular angina). studies of forearm arterial function suggested that patients with microvascular angina may have a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle tone. because dyspnea is common in these patients and seems disproportionate to the severity of myocardial ischemia, we studied air flow (forced expiratory volume in 1 second, or fev1) in the basal state and after methacholine inhalation to determine whether bronchial smooth muscle is affected in this syndrome. five of 36 patients with microvascular angina had a basal fev1 of less than 70% of that predicted and did not receive methacholine. of the remaining 31 patients, 14 (45%) had a more-than-20% reduction in fev1 after methacholine inhalation (as much as 25 mg/ml), a response significantly greater than that of nine patients with heart disease (0%, p less than 0.025) and 24 normal volunteers of similar age and gender distribution (13%, p less than 0.025). furthermore, the product of the methacholine dose inhaled and the magnitude of decline in fev1 from baseline (methacholine response score) was significantly lower in patients with microvascular angina than in normal volunteers (16 +/- 8.6 versus 22.2 +/- 3.7, p = 0.026). we conclude that airway hyperresponsiveness is frequently demonstrable in patients with microvascular angina; these findings are consistent with our hypothesis that this syndrome may represent a more generalized abnormality of vascular and nonvascular smooth muscle function.
evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma aggressiveness by a panel of extracellular matrix antigens. invasion and metastasis requires a series of interactions between malignant cells and the extracellular matrix (ecm). antigen markers that relate to these interactions were evaluated for prognostic correlation in human hepatocellular carcinoma. basement membrane type iv collagen (civ), type iv collagenase (civase), laminin, and laminin receptors (lrs)--all ecm antigens previously proposed to be modulated in association with tumor aggressiveness--were immunohistochemically investigated in 30 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs). the pattern of antigen expression was correlated with 1) 36 months' clinical follow-up and 2) the pathologic grade. as a means of estimating the proliferation fraction, an additional antigen, ki67, was also studied in this series. there were major differences in the distribution of civ and laminin, and in the quantity of civase-, lr-, and ki67-positive cells associated with grade and prognosis. a smaller quantity of civ and laminin and a higher number of civase-, lr-, and ki67-positive cells were detected in the poorly differentiated compared with the well-differentiated hccs. the tumors with lower immunoreactivity for civ and laminin components accompanied by a higher number of civase-, lr-, and ki67-positive cells fall into a group with the poorest overall survival (p less than 0.006). the panel of antigens is proposed as a useful prognostic tool for evaluating hcc tumor aggressiveness.
ciliary motility in two patients with yellow nail syndrome and recurrent sinopulmonary infections. the yellow nail syndrome (yns) is described as a combination of yellow nails, chronic lymphedema, pleural effusions, and recurrent sinopulmonary infections, but all these features need not be present for the diagnosis. the mechanism that renders patients with this syndrome susceptible to respiratory infections is not known. to determine whether abnormal ciliary motility is a predisposing factor, in vitro ciliary beat frequency (cbf) was measured in two patients with yns and recurrent respiratory infections. in each case, the cbf was within normal limits (12 hz). these data suggest that abnormal ciliary motility is not a pathophysiologic mechanism of recurrent sinopulmonary infections in yns.
blunt renal trauma in childhood. features indicating severe injury. the clinical presentation of children with blunt renal trauma may differ from that of adults. the clinical features at presentation of 50 consecutive children (20 severe injuries, no pedicle injuries) admitted over a period of almost 8 years were reviewed to determine if there were clinical clues to major renal trauma in childhood. gross haematuria and low haematocrit were the most helpful factors at the time of presentation and correlated well with severe renal injury. hypotension was seen in 4 patients and only 1 had severe renal trauma. suspicion of a major renal injury should be high when there is gross haematuria or a low haematocrit. in this study only 1 of 20 patients with major renal injury demonstrated clinical signs of shock. unlike adults, hypotension does not appear to be a reliable indicator of the severity of renal injury in children and diagnostic evaluation should not be reserved only for those in shock.
lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum: an unusual intraoperative finding. lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina. he was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances. the diagnosis was made on frozen section.
spectral analysis of tremor: understanding the results. spectral analysis of a tremor record can sometimes produce a spectrum with multiple components of significant amplitude. the problem is to determine whether the presence of several peaks represents the coexistence of separate tremor mechanisms or be a consequence of fluctuations in the frequency or amplitude of a single tremor. the spectrum of a tremor whose frequency or amplitude vary and are independent has the recognisable pattern of a central carrier frequency with sidebands of equal amplitudes distributed symmetrically around the carrier. however, if tremor amplitude and frequency fluctuate and are not independent, (frequency proportional to amplitude or frequency inversely proportional to amplitude), the spectrum has a pattern of sidebands which are asymmetrical in amplitudes and may resemble the spectrum of the combined signal from different independent oscillators. the investigation of sidebands in spectra has been neglected in tremor studies and multiple irregular peaks on a tremor spectrum have sometimes been used wrongly as evidence for the coexistence of multiple tremor mechanisms or frequency components assumed to be concurrent.
pressure threshold for shock wave induced renal hemorrhage. studies were performed with an interest in determining a pressure threshold for extracorporeal shock wave induced renal damage. histological evidence of intraparenchymal hemorrhage was used as an indicator of tissue trauma. depilated c3h mice were anesthetized and placed on a special frame to enhance visualization and treatment of the kidneys in situ. a wolf electrohydraulic generator and 9 french probe designed for endoscopic use were utilized to expose the kidneys to 10 double spherically divergent shock waves. measurements of the shock waves revealed two positive pressure peaks of similar magnitude for each spark discharge. the kidneys were exposed to different peak pressures by choice of distance from the spark source and were removed immediately after treatment for histologic processing. a dose response was noted with severe corticomedullary damage apparent following 15 to 20 mpa shocks. hemorrhage was more apparent in the medulla where evidence of damage could be seen following pressures as low as three to five mpa. when a latex membrane was interposed to prevent possible collapse of the initial bubble from the spark source against the skin surface, histological evaluation revealed substantial reduction of severe tissue damage associated with the highest pressures tested, 20 mpa. however, the threshold level for evidence of hemorrhage remained about three to five mpa. hydrophonic measurements indicated that the membrane allowed transmission of the acoustic shock waves and suggested that collapse of the bubble generated by electrohydraulic probes may have local effects due to a cavitation-like mechanism.
evaluation of animal models for the study of exercise-induced muscle enlargement. skeletal muscle is known to enlarge in response to high-resistance training programs in humans. study of the cellular mechanisms of muscle enlargement and the adaptations of muscle to strength-training programs has been difficult because of the need to analyze entire muscles. this precludes the use of human subjects in many experiments of this nature. several animal models have been developed for the study of muscle enlargement; these models basically fall into three categories: 1) stretch hypertrophy, 2) compensatory hypertrophy, and 3) exercise-induced hypertrophy. this review attempts to analyze these models as models of muscle enlargement produced by strength training in humans. three areas must be considered when evaluating animal models of human muscle enlargement produced by strength training: 1) response topography, 2) magnitude of enlargement, and 3) muscle fiber adaptations produced as a result of the enlargement. based on these considerations, it is concluded that none of the animal models currently in use truly represents the human strength-training situation under all conditions. all three models, however, provide valuable information about the plasticity of skeletal muscle in response to a broad spectrum of muscle enlargement.
ischemic colitis. an ever-changing spectrum? ischemic colitis, or more properly colonic ischemia, became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years. yet, early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task. a 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors' previous experience and with data from the literature. several important factors emerge: (1) twice as many cases occurred after operations (34% in this series vs. 16% in the past), probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized. (2) sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent, while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent. seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died. a high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient, as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients. moreover, the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis, as well as monitoring of the "at-risk" patient, is needed for improvement in survival to occur. new monitoring methods, such as tonometry, may help accomplish this goal.
spontaneous regression in merkel cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the skin. in two japanese women, 68 and 88 years old, merkel cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the face developed. their tumors regressed after biopsy was performed, a rare occurrence. histological and electron microscopic examination showed apoptosis, cellular necrosis, and an infiltration composed mainly of lymphocytes in the tumors. these changes may have been related to the mechanism of regression. it is interesting that our two patients were women, as was another patient described with merkel cell carcinoma regression, in light of the fact that the prognosis of this tumor is sex dependent.
characterization of an interleukin-6-mediated autocrine growth loop in the human multiple myeloma cell line, u266. it has been reported recently that freshly isolated human myeloma cell cultures proliferate in response to added interleukin-6 (il-6). endogenous levels of il-6 found in the same cultures suggested that an autocrine growth loop may contribute to cell growth. however, the lack of homogenous cell populations in primary myeloma cultures has made it difficult to distinguish between paracrine and autocrine growth mechanisms. to precisely address the autocrine growth issue we have evaluated the growth of the human myeloma cell line, u266. we have found that a neutralizing anti-il-6 monoclonal antibody can inhibit u266 proliferation. furthermore, the addition of il-6 antisense oligonucleotides also inhibits u266 proliferation. these effects are reversed by adding il-6, suggesting the presence of an autocrine loop. using bioassays with two different il-6-dependent cell lines, we were able to detect il-6 in concentrated u266 supernatants. il-6 mrna was detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification of cdna. cell cycle parameter analysis shows that il-6 acts to release a block in g1. taken together these results present conclusive evidence for il-6-mediated autocrine growth in the u266 human myeloma cell line.
experimental study of starch-induced intraperitoneal adhesions the effects of starch on the development of postoperative adhesions were examined in 144 sprague dawley rats. groups of rats were injected intraperitoneally with suspensions of washings from starched gloves, starch-free gloves and starch-poor washed gloves, and after operative manipulation of the bowel. the incidence of adhesions was greatest (78 per cent) after laparotomy and injections of starch-rich washings and least when starch-poor (33 per cent) or starch-free glove suspensions (37 per cent) were used, confirming an advantage for washing gloves or switching to starch-free products.
beta camera for static and dynamic imaging of charged-particle emitting radionuclides in biologic samples. a detection system based on microchannel plates has been constructed to image charged particles emitted by radionuclides in biomedical samples. this technique has significant advantages over conventional film autoradiography for investigating the distribution of radiolabeled compounds: shorter acquisition times due to the high sensitivity, easier sample handling, direct quantification and the ability to perform dynamic studies. the detector performance shows a spatial resolution of 0.9 mm for carbon-14 (14c) (0.156 mev), good linearity and homogeneity. the noise level is below 50/(cm2.sec). successful imaging with this system has been performed with beta-emitters 14c, sulfur-35 (35s), iodine-131 (131i), yttrium-90 (90y), and positron emitters gallium-68 (68ga), and fluorine-18 (18f). dynamic studies of axonal transport of 35s-methionine in a nerve, and static images of 90y-labeled monoclonal antibodies in slices of tumors are presented. the system shows promise for rapid quantitative imaging of charged-particle emitting radionuclides in small biologic samples.
newer antihypertensive agents. three recent additions to the list of antihypertensive agents have been approved for use as monotherapy or in combination with other drugs. betaxolol hydrochloride (kerlone) maintains its effect for 24 hours, making it a true once-a-day beta blocker. penbutolol sulfate (levatol) is as effective as other beta blockers and diuretics. doxazosin mesylate (cardura), a selective alpha 1 blocker, also allows once-a-day dosing and has produced favorable changes in lipid profiles. two new drug delivery systems, one for verapamil hydrochloride (verelan) and one for extended-release nifedipine (procardia xl), allow less frequent dosing and may offer other advantages, such as greater compliance and a more tolerable side-effect profile.
secondary t-cell lymphoproliferation after marrow transplantation. secondary lymphoproliferative syndromes in immunosuppressed patients have been characterized as polyclonal or monoclonal b-lineage disorders nearly always associated with epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection. the authors now report three patients with a distinctly different lymphoproliferative syndrome. two patients with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (calla) (cd10)-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one patient with acute myelogenous leukemia, respectively, received high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by marrow transplantation from either an hla-identical sibling or hla-mismatched parent. all three patients developed severe graft-versus-host disease (gvhd), requiring immunosuppressive treatment with corticosteroids. a secondary malignant t-cell lymphoproliferation occurred 2, 21, and 43 months, respectively, after marrow transplantation. in all three cases the lymphoid cells expressed t-cell surface antigens and were morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct from the malignant cells present before transplantation. one tumor was of host cell origin, one was probably of donor origin, and the tumor origin in the third case could not be determined. the authors were unable to find any evidence for ebv, human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i or ii, human immunodeficiency virus, or human herpesvirus 6.
what affects continence after anterior resection of the rectum? functional results after anterior rectal resections are commonly considered satisfactory but variable percentages of postoperative incontinence are often reported. continence was evaluated after 20 low anterior resections (lar) and 13 high anterior resections (har) by means of clinical assessment, anorectal manometry, and evacuation proctography. whereas all har patients had perfect continence, 10 patients (50 percent of the lar group had occasional episodes of soiling from liquid feces, 5 patients (25 percent had frequent soiling or occasional incontinence for solid feces, and 1 patient (5 percent had frequent solid stool loss requiring surgical treatment. anal canal resting pressure at 3 and 4 cm from the anal verge was significantly lower in the lar group (p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.05, respectively) than in the har group. however, the maximum voluntary contraction did not differ between the two groups. rectoanal inhibitory reflex was found to be present in 17 of the 20 patients with lar and in all patients with har. the volume at which the anal sphincter is continuously inhibited was significantly reduced in the lar group (p less than 0.001). also, the conscious rectal sensibility volumes were found to be significantly reduced for threshold, constant, and maximum tolerated volume. threshold volume for internal sphincter relaxation was lower than the threshold volume for rectal sensation in some patients with lar. this could allow postoperative fecal soiling. rectal compliance was decreased (p less than 0.001) in the lar group. evacuation proctography, performed in six lar patients affected by major soiling or solid stool loss, revealed an abnormal obtuse anorectal angle and pathologic lowering of the perineum at rest and during defecation. the concomitance of internal and sphincter impairment, reduction in rectal compliance, and previous pelvis floor muscle damage are postulated as cause affecting continence in patients who underwent lar.
species-dependent effects of adenosine on heart rate and atrioventricular nodal conduction. mechanism and physiological implications. this study 1) compares the negative chronotropic and dromotropic actions of adenosine in guinea pig, rat, and rabbit hearts; 2) investigates the mechanism(s) for the different responses; and 3) determines the physiological implications. isolated perfused hearts were instrumented for measurement of atrial rate and atrioventricular (av) nodal conduction time. differences in metabolism of adenosine were determined in the absence and presence of dipyridamole (nucleoside uptake blocker) and erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (ehna, adenosine deaminase inhibitor). dipyridamole plus ehna decreased adenosine's ec50 for the negative dromotropic effect by 14-fold in guinea pig heart and 1.6-fold in rat heart. this is consistent with the greater number of [3h]nitrobenzylthioinosine binding sites measured in membranes from guinea pig (1,231 +/- 68 fmol/mg protein) compared with rat (302 +/- 31 fmol/mg protein) and rabbit (260 +/- 28 fmol/mg protein) atria. the potency of adenosine to slow atrial rate and prolong av nodal conduction time was greater in guinea pig than in rat or rabbit hearts. this rank order of potency correlated well with the number of binding sites for the specific adenosine receptor radioligand 125i-aminobenzyladenosine in guinea pig (102 +/- 13 fmol/mg protein), rat (11 +/- 0.5 fmol/mg protein), and rabbit (8 +/- 1 fmol/mg protein) atrial membranes. hypoxia increased the rate of adenosine release by severalfold and caused slowing of heart rate and av block. in spontaneously beating hearts, the main effect of hypoxia was a slowing of ventricular rate, which in the guinea pig heart was due to av block and in the rat heart to atrial slowing. in atrial paced hearts, hypoxia caused a marked prolongation of av nodal conduction time in guinea pig (39 +/- 4 msec) and rabbit (29 +/- 5 msec) hearts, but only small effect in rat hearts (10 +/- 2 msec). the differences in response to hypoxia could be accounted for by the species-dependent differences in the 1) amount of adenosine released and metabolized, 2) sensitivity of the hearts to adenosine, and 3) dependency of av nodal conduction on atrial rate. the findings indicate that the results from physiological or pharmacological studies on adenosine in one species may not be applicable to others, and the ultimate effect of adenosine and hypoxia is to slow ventricular rate.
unsuspected cocaine exposure in young children. objective: to determine the prevalence of cocaine exposure among preschool children with clinically unsuspected signs and/or symptoms. design: prevalence study. setting: pediatric emergency department in an inner-city hospital. participants: 250 children aged 2 weeks to 5 years who underwent urine assays for cocaine prior to discharge from the emergency department. interventions: none. measurements/main results: six (2.4%) of the 250 urine assays (95% confidence interval, 0.5% to 4.3%) were positive for benzoylecgonine, the major urinary cocaine metabolite. four of the positive urine assays were from children younger than 1 year and all children with positive urine assays were younger than 24 months. none of these children presented with a complaint or was identified as having clinical problems currently associated with childhood exposure to cocaine. possible exposure routes include breastfeeding, intentional administration, accidental ingestion of cocaine or cocaine-contaminated household dust via normal hand-to-mouth activity, and passive inhalation of "crack" vapors. conclusion: among the inner-city children served by this hospital, significant numbers of infants and young children are being exposed to cocaine, and this exposure occurs in a clinically unsuspected population.
long-term results of surgical resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. this study was undertaken to review the long-term results of multivisceral resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. between 1964 and 1980, 1042 patients underwent exploratory surgery for colorectal cancer. of these, 58 patients (5.5%) underwent curative multivisceral resection for suspected contiguous invasion by the primary tumor. follow-up was complete for all patients. the primary tumors were located in the rectum (38 patients), sigmoid (9 patients), left colon (6 patients), and right colon (5 patients). en bloc resection of other viscera included uterus, adnexa, bladder, vagina, small intestine, abdominal wall, liver, stomach, kidney, and ureter. the operative morbidity and mortality rates were 31% and 1.7%, respectively. resection margins were free of tumor in 54 patients. in the four patients with tumor-positive resection margins, recurrence of disease was evident between 8 and 22 weeks after surgery (mean survival time, 8.2 months). carcinomatous invasion of the resected contiguous organ was confirmed in 49 patients (84%). the mean survival time for patients without lymph node metastases was 100.7 months, but it was only 16.2 months (p less than 0.01) for patients with lymph node metastases. actuarial 5-year disease-free survival rate for patients without lymph node metastases was 76% (36 of 47 patients). none of the patients (0 of 11) with lymph node metastases survived for 5 years. three of 36 of the 5-year survivors experienced recurrence of disease before the seventh postoperative year; no cancer-related deaths occurred between 7 and 25 years. these data suggest that survival in locally advanced colorectal carcinoma is more dependent on lymph node status than on the extent of local invasion. effective disease control associated with survival in the long term can be achieved by multivisceral resection.
absorbable mesh splenorrhaphy for severe splenic injuries: functional studies in an animal model and an additional patient series. polyglycolic acid mesh has been introduced as a method of controlling hemorrhage in severely damaged spleens. this study examines the effect of splenic wrapping on the immune function of the spleen, and also on its ability to control splenic bleeding in trauma patients. thirty purebred beagle dogs were divided into three groups and subjected to sham operation (group 1), splenectomy (group 2), and splenic wrap (group 3). immunologic studies showed no difference between the wrapped group (group 3) and those with their spleens intact (group 1) in the induction of specific antibody-producing lymphocytes in splenic tissue after the injection of attenuated pneumococci. all splenic injuries treated at cook county hospital between january 1985 and may 1988 were retrospectively analyzed. of 60 patients with splenic injuries, 14 underwent mesh splenorrhaphy without mortality or serious complications. this study demonstrates that the immune function of spleen is preserved following mesh splenorrhapy, and that this technique can be used in a clinical setting with safe and efficacious results.
predictors of cardiac survival after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. to assess the outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) in patients with severe left ventricular (lv) dysfunction and to determine the predictors of mortality, 73 patients with lv ejection fraction less than or equal to 40% who underwent initial ptca were analyzed. the majority of patients had prior (greater than 1 week) myocardial infarction (62 patients, 85%). congestive heart failure and unstable angina were present in 24 (45%) and 49 (67%) patients, respectively. multivessel coronary artery disease was present in 60 (83%). the lv ejection fraction ranged from 14 to 40% (mean 34%). intraaortic balloon pump (15%) and percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support (4%) was used infrequently. angiographic success was obtained in 109 of 128 lesions (85%) attempted. complete revascularization was obtained in 16 of 60 patients with clinical success. procedure-related mortality was 5% (4 patients). all patients were followed from greater than or equal to 6 to less than or equal to 71 months (average 26). the estimated survival was 79 +/- 5%, 74 +/- 6%, 66 +/- 7% and 57 +/- 8% at 1, 2, 3 and 4 years, respectively. a cox regression analysis revealed that the presence of congestive heart failure, a lower lv ejection fraction and a higher myocardial jeopardy score for contractile myocardium were independent predictors of survival after ptca in patients with lv dysfunction. in conclusion, a high-risk subset can be identified among patients with severe lv dysfunction who undergo ptca.
immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders. a fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/ml. when concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis (n = 31) [including the calcifying forms (n = 10)], pancreatic cancer (n = 22), or nonpancreatic diseases (n = 17), no significant differences were found. in contrast, increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic (39/66) and acute pancreatitis (16/20) compared with control patients. the differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant (p less than 0.0001) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity. immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point (ph 9) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein. with respect to recent communications, these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators.
left ventricular versus left atrial cannulation for the thoratec ventricular assist device. in a retrospective study of 28 patients (23 men, 5 women) supported with ventricular assist devices greater than 3 days, the effect of lv cannulation versus la cannulation on device performance was compared. patients ranged in age from 12 to 67 years (mean 46 years) and were supported for 3-81 days (mean 15 years). fifteen patients were supported with left vads (6 lv and 9 la), and 13 patients were supported with bvads (5 lv and 8 la). the mode of operation 91% of the time was the fill-to-empty mode. ten data points were taken for each patient. lv cannulation results in higher vad flow index at decreased preload, lower vad systolic and vacuum pressures, and shorter diastolic durations. eleven of the 28 patients survived. although survival was greater in patients with lv cannulation, survival was more dependent upon reversibility of myocardial damage, eligibility for transplantation, or the development of complications. these data indicate that lv cannulation provides better vad performance than la cannulation in the fill-to-empty mode.
postcardiotomy mechanical circulatory support in the elderly. the role of mechanical circulatory support after cardiac operations in elderly patients is not clearly established. between november 1985 and july 1989, 18 patients 65 years of age or older (mean age, 71 years; range, 65 to 82 years) were treated after cardiotomy with a centrifugal vortex or pneumatic mechanical ventricular assist device. this group comprised 1.9% of the 926 patients 65 years of age or older undergoing cardiac surgical procedures and 69% of the 26 patients requiring postcardiotomy support during this interval. before institution of mechanical support, all patients were receiving maximal inotropic support and 16 patients had intraaortic balloon pumps inserted. univentricular support was used in 9 patients (6 left, 3 right) and biventricular support in 9 patients. the mean duration of support was 45 hours (range, 8 to 118 hours). twelve patients (67%) were successfully weaned, 8 (44%) were discharged from the hospital, and 6 (33%) remain alive 11 to 31 months postoperatively. four of the 6 survivors are in new york heart association class i, 1 is in class ii, and 1 is in class iv. the combined registry for ventricular assist device support has recently reported an overall survival rate of 12% in patients 65 to 70 years of age and 6% in those older than 70 years. our results are comparable with those reported for younger patients and justify the use of postcardiotomy ventricular assist device support in the elderly.
neuropathological changes in transgenic mice carrying copies of a transcriptionally activated mos protooncogene [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 may 1;88(9):4060] independent transgenic mouse lines carrying the mouse mos protooncogene linked to a retroviral transcriptional control sequence display behavioral abnormalities including circling, head tilting, and head bobbing. this dominant phenotype shows various degrees of penetrance in different transgenic founder animals and lines. neuronal and axonal degeneration, gliosis, and inflammatory infiltrates are found in all transgenic mouse lines in which behavioral traits are present. recordings of auditory-evoked potentials in mice of one of these lines demonstrate that transgenic mice are deaf; in these mice spiral ganglia degenerate and most of the cochlear hair cells are absent. by using an s1 nuclease protection assay, we have detected rna expression of the transgene in all tissues examined and, in particular, at high levels in brain. in situ hybridization experiments show that mos expression can be detected in specific areas of the central nervous system. lesions are present in areas with demonstrable overexpression of mos.
the gastrin hypothesis. implications for antisecretory drug selection. newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion, such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole, are becoming available for general use. these drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting h2-receptor antagonists. the safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question, however. lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like (ecl) cells in the gastric corpus. available evidence supports a role of gastrin, which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria. in humans, hypergastrinemic states such as zollinger-ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors. such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion. to date, however, no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans. if achlorhydric doses are not used, significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained. such measures should minimize any risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs.
obesity and vaginal hysterectomy. a retrospective study was done of 471 consecutive vaginal hysterectomies done in a three-year period. three groups of patients--239 normal to 9% overweight, 132 10-24% overweight and 100 greater than or equal to 25% overweight--were compared. surgical difficulties were similar in all three groups. the more obese patient had a slightly greater incidence of febrile morbidity, stayed one day longer in the hospital and had a minimally greater loss of hemoglobin 48 hours postoperatively. however, obesity per se caused few problems during and after vaginal hysterectomy. the vaginal approach is the procedure of choice for hysterectomy in obese women.
treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm by exclusion and bypass: an analysis of outcome. abdominal aortic aneurysm is conventionally treated by aneurysmorrhaphy with inlying graft. alternatively, division of the aorta, with suture closure of the distal aorta and outflow vessels (exclusion of the aneurysm), and end-to-end proximal to distal bypass may be performed. however, the long-term fate of this operation has not been determined. specifically, concern exists that the excluded blood filled aneurysm may not thrombose or may be the source of late sepsis. during an 8-year period we have treated 280 abdominal aortic aneurysms (urgent and elective) by exclusion of the abdominal aortic aneurysm sac and bypass via the posterolateral retroperitoneal approach. mean age was 70 years (range, 44 to 88), with 217 men and 63 women. preoperative ct scanning and aortography were performed to assess arterial anatomy. seventy tube grafts and 260 bifurcation grafts were used. thirty-day mortality rate was 4%. estimated blood loss was 731 +/- 52 ml; mean transfusion requirements were 456 +/- 82 ml. the minor complication rate was 6%, and it is of great interest that there were no cases of ischemic colitis requiring colectomy. aneurysm sacs thrombosed except in two anticoagulated patients who required further treatment. no late infections occurred. five-year bypass patency rate was 98%. these data demonstrate that this method of treatment effectively minimized operative dissection and blood loss and therefore is a viable alternative for the management of abdominal aortic aneurysms.
elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type vi collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (tgf-beta 1), type vi collagen, and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations. the immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of tgf-beta, type vi collagen, and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens. increased levels of type vi collagen mrna, as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2(vi) collagen cdna, were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis. in situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific tgf-beta 1 cdna demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine. in contrast, no hybridization signal for tgf-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis. these findings suggest that tgf-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in ems-associated diffuse fasciitis.
how large must an iridotomy be? four cases of acute angle closure glaucoma in eyes with a small but patent nd-yag laser iridotomy are presented, and similar cases in the literature are reviewed. theoretically a 15 microns diameter iridotomy should be large enough to prevent angle closure glaucoma due to pupil block. mechanisms by which larger iridotomies fail to prevent angle closure glaucoma, and the role of provocation tests following iridotomy, are discussed. an iridotomy should be at least 150-200 microns in diameter if acute angle closure glaucoma is to be reliably prevented.
exercise thallium-201 imaging in complete left bundle branch block and the prevalence of septal perfusion defects. to determine the prevalence of septal defects in a generalized referral population, the records of 93 consecutive patients with complete left bundle branch block (bbb) who underwent symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with thallium-201 myocardial imaging over a 3-year period were reviewed. segmental analysis of the planar thallium-201 images was performed in a blinded fashion with agreement by consensus. computerized quantitative analysis of the images also was independently performed, and was correlated with the visual interpretations. forty-seven patients (51%) had normal images, and 46 (49%) had defects of greater than or equal to 2 segments. in the abnormal studies, only 13 patients (14% of the total population) had septal defects, while a much higher number of patients, 33 (39%), had inferior or apical defects, or both. coronary angiography was performed in 6 patients with septal defects: significant narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery was found in 4 patients, a narrowed right coronary artery was found in 1, and normal coronary arteries were seen in the other patient. in conclusion, whereas previous studies have suggested a high percentage of false-positive septal defects in patients with left bbb, this study demonstrates a low prevalence (14%) of septal defects in a large population of unselected patients presenting for exercise thallium-201 imaging. therefore, exercise thallium-201 imaging remains a useful procedure for evaluating patients with complete left bbb.
extradural haematoma in the irish republic: an analysis of 82 cases with emphasis on 'delay'. eighty-two cases of extradural haematoma were analysed to elucidate the factors contributing to delay in treatment and poor outcome. the majority of cases occurred in the first three decades of life with falls being the commonest aetiological factor. five distinct modes of presentation are described. excessive delay occurred in recognizing the condition and in subsequent transfer of patients. this resulted in many patients being operated on while in coma. associated intracranial and extracranial injury occurred in a significant number of cases. recommendations for the management of these patients are outlined.
131i treatment of thyroid papillary carcinoma in a patient with renal failure. procedures for 131i ablation in renal failure are not known. in one patient receiving dialysis, detailed dosimetry and health safety aspects were obtained. the results showed insignificant contamination of equipment, but a surprisingly significant reduction in biologic half-life of 131i due to efficient dialysis extraction. the data indicate that 131i ablation can be done safely and easily during dialysis but that much higher 131i doses must be used to achieve equivalent results to those obtained in patients with normal renal function.
furosemide-131i-hippuran renography after angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition for the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension. purpose: we have previously demonstrated the greater sensitivity of 131i-hippuran renography than 99mtc-dtpa scintigraphy to diagnose renovascular hypertension (rvh). this study assesses the predictive diagnostic value of furosemide-131i-hippuran renography after angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibition in patients with and without rvh. patients and methods: all patients were investigated at the university of miami/jackson memorial medical center. twenty-eight patients had rvh and 22 did not. twenty-eight patients had normal or minimally decreased renal function (serum creatinine level 1.5 mg/dl or less) and 22 had renal insufficiency (serum creatinine level 1.8 mg/dl or more). renography was performed 60 minutes after oral administration of 50 mg captopril or 10 minutes after intravenous injection of 40 micrograms/kg enalaprilat. forty milligrams of furosemide were administered intravenously 2 minutes after injection of 131i-hippuran. the residual cortical activity (rca) of 131i-hippuran was measured at 20 minutes. results: rvh was unlikely when rca after ace inhibition was less than 30% of peak cortical activity. conversely, rvh was present when 131i-hippuran cortical activity steadily increased throughout the test to reach 100% at 20 minutes. in azotemic patients with rca between 31% and 100%, rvh was differentiated from intrinsic renal disease by obtaining a baseline renogram without ace inhibition and comparing rca in that study and rca after ace inhibition. if rca increased (indicating worsening renal function) after ace inhibition, rvh was likely; whereas, intrinsic renal disease was more likely if rca remained unchanged or decreased (indicating improved renal function) with ace inhibition. the test had a specificity of 95% and a sensitivity of 96% in this population. there was a direct correlation between the results of angioplasty or surgery on high blood pressure and the changes in rca before and after intervention (n = 20). conclusion: furosemide-131i-hippuran renography with ace inhibition is highly predictive in identifying patients with rvh.
effects of ischemia and hemoglobin on vascular function in isolated rabbit aortas. the vascular endothelium is important in the modulation of vascular tone via production of endothelium-derived relaxing and contracting factors. the abdominal aortas of five groups of rabbits were subjected to varying lengths of ischemia (0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours), removed, sectioned into transverse rings, and placed in tissue baths containing krebs' buffer at 37 degrees c and aerated with 95% o2/5% co2. after equilibration the rings were tested for endothelium-dependent vasodilation with methacholine and nonendothelium-dependent vasodilation with nitroprusside. endothelium-dependent relaxation as elicited by methacholine was impaired at 3 and 4 hours of ischemia but was not significantly different at 1 and 2 hours as compared to control, whereas endothelium-independent vasodilation remained normal throughout the different periods of ischemia. the addition of 1 x 10(-6) mol/l rabbit hemoglobin reduced the time needed to demonstrate significant impairment of endothelial function to 2 hours. endothelium-independent vasodilation was not affected by hemoglobin. we conclude that hemoglobin exacerbates ischemia vascular dysfunction in the rabbit aorta.
passage of a colon 'cast' after anoabdominal rectal resection. report of a case. the authors report a case of the passage of a total colonic j-pouch "cast" per anus after anoabdominal rectal resection and colonic j-pouch-anal anastomosis. this occurred without development of cuff abscess and was not due to occlusion of the inferior mesenteric artery. this was successfully treated, with preservation of anal function, with resection of the colonic j-pouch by transanal approach.
state iii squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. results of a swedish study. one hundred fifty-three cases of stage iii vulvar squamous cell carcinoma were studied. the survival rate was significantly higher in the 99 patients given standard treatment than in the 54 given other treatments. the principal prognostic factor was the presence of groin metastases. in cases without metastases at the time of primary treatment, the five-year survival rate was 89%; in cases with metastases it was 36% when nodal metastases were not suspected (international federation of obstetricians and gynecologists stage n0n1), the survival rate was also higher than when nodal involvement was suspected (n2). stage iii should be subdivided according to either postoperative stages or new clinical stages by separating n0n1 cases from n2 cases.
antenatal spontaneous perforation of the extrahepatic biliary tree. spontaneous perforation of the biliary system is an unusual neonatal phenomenon that is rarely recognized at birth. to date, it has not been reported antenatally. a 16-year-old pregnant adolescent had an ultrasonogram at 25 weeks of pregnancy that revealed ascites in the fetus. after the infant was delivered at 32 weeks, a hepato-iminodiacetic acid scan showed a spontaneous rupture of the common bile duct. the infant was treated with external drainage of the biliary tree and recovered well. this case demonstrates that spontaneous perforations of the bile ducts can occur much earlier than the usually described 2 to 12 weeks after birth, can be diagnosed antenatally, and should be added to the list of causes of fetal ascites.
gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy: suggested guidelines for treatment twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention: 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed (five also undergoing choledochotomy) and one patient had a cholecystostomy. of these 23 patients, five were lithotripsy failures, five developed acute pancreatitis, one had acute cholecystitis, and one had cholangitis. one patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer. ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain, probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct. we suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy, i.e. five patients with pancreatitis, one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic. conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients. if, however, the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy, then resort to surgery may be necessary. we propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures.
diclofenac for day-care arthroscopy surgery: comparison with a standard opioid therapy. sixty unpremedicated patients presenting for day-care arthroscopy surgery were allocated randomly to receive diclofenac 1 mg kg-1 i.m., fentanyl 1 microgram kg-1 i.v. or no analgesic during the course of anaesthesia. patients receiving fentanyl had slightly, although not significantly prolonged recovery times. patients receiving diclofenac had significantly improved postoperative visual analogue pain scores compared with patients receiving placebo medication (p less than 0.05). with fentanyl, pain scores were reduced also, but the effect was not statistically significant. both fentanyl and diclofenac produced significant reduction in postoperative analgesic requirements (p less than 0.05). we conclude that diclofenac 1 mg kg-1 i.m. was an effective analgesic for arthroscopic procedures on the knee and is a useful alternative to opioids for day-care patients.
detection by ct during arterial portography of colorectal cancer metastases to liver. a prospective evaluation of the accuracy of real-time ultrasonography (us), computed tomography (ct), infusion hepatic angiography (iha), and computed tomography during arterial portography (ct-ap) was performed on 65 resected liver metastases of colorectal cancers. the total detection rate was 58.5 percent for us, 56.3 percent for ct, 55.4 percent for iha, and 86.2 percent for ct-ap. the sensitivity of 29 lesions with diameters of smaller than 1 cm was 65.5 percent for ct-ap, ct found only two, and both us and iha localized no more than three. the smallest lesions detectable by ct-ap were as small as 0.4 cm in diameter. ct-ap proved most useful in detecting the liver metastases, and the use of this technique is recommended for preoperative planning of hepatectomy on patients with liver metastases.
prevention of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism after total hip replacement. comparison of low-molecular-weight heparin and unfractionated heparin. in a prospective, randomized, double-blind study, the efficacy and safety of a low-molecular-weight heparin were compared with those of unfractionated sodium heparin (standard heparin) in 136 patients who had elective total hip replacement. the patients received subcutaneous injection of either 5000 international units of low-molecular-weight heparin once daily or 5000 international units of standard heparin three times a day. treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin began twelve hours before the operation, and treatment with standard heparin began two hours preoperatively; both regimens were continued for ten days. twelve days postoperatively, bilateral ascending phlebography was performed in 122 patients, sixty-three in the treatment group that received low-molecular-weight heparin and fifty-nine in the treatment group that received standard heparin. pulmonary scintigraphy was performed in 127 patients. deep-vein thrombosis was diagnosed in forty-four patients: nineteen (30 per cent) of the sixty-three who received low-molecular-weight heparin and twenty-five (42 per cent) of the fifty-nine who received standard heparin. all but four patients, two from each treatment group, were asymptomatic. the difference in the total rate of thrombosis in the two groups was not significant (p = 0.189). however, thrombosis occurred in the thigh in only six (10 per cent) of the patients who received low-molecular-weight heparin but in eighteen (31 per cent) of those who received standard heparin, a significant difference (p = 0.011). pulmonary embolism was detected in twenty-seven patients: eight (12.3 per cent) of those who received low-molecular-weight heparin and nineteen (30.6 per cent) of those who received standard heparin. only three patients had clinical signs of embolism. pulmonary embolism was significantly more frequent in the group that received standard heparin (p = 0.016). total loss of blood and the total amount of blood that was transfused were significantly reduced in the patients who received low-molecular-weight heparin compared with those who received standard heparin. prophylaxis was not discontinued because of hemorrhage in any patient. the efficacy of low-molecular-weight heparin was superior to that of standard heparin in the prevention of femoral thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, although the over-all incidence of deep-vein thrombosis was not statistically different.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
prognostic value of radionuclide angiography in medically treated patients with coronary artery disease. a comparison with clinical and catheterization variables. to evaluate the usefulness of multiple measures from rest and exercise radionuclide angiography (rna) in predicting cardiovascular death and cardiovascular events (death or nonfatal myocardial infarction) and to assess the prognostic usefulness of the rna relative to clinical and catheterization data, we studied 571 stable patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease who had upright rest/exercise first-pass rna within 3 months of catheterization and were medically treated. with a median follow-up of 5.4 years, 90 patients have died from cardiovascular causes, and 147 patients have either died or suffered a nonfatal myocardial infarction. using the cox regression model and a preselected group of rna variables, the most important rna predictor of mortality was exercise ejection fraction (chi 2 = 81, p less than 0.00001). neither rest ejection fraction nor the change in ejection fraction from rest to exercise contributed additional predictive information. two other rna study variables, the change in heart rate from rest to exercise and rest end-diastolic volume index, did contribute additional prognostic information to the exercise ejection fraction (chi 2 = 23, p less than 0.0001). compared with noninvasive clinical data (history, physical examination, electrocardiogram, and chest radiograph), rna variables were considerably more predictive of mortality (chi 2 = 71 [clinical variables] versus chi 2 = 104 [rna]). remarkably, the strength of the relation of rna variables with mortality was equivalent to that of the set of catheterization variables previously demonstrated in our large angiographic population to be prognostically important (chi 2 = 104 [rna] versus chi 2 = 102 [catheterization variables]). the rna contained 84% of the information provided by clinical and catheterization descriptors combined. furthermore, the rna contributed significant additional prognostic information to the clinical and catheterization data (chi 2 = 13.6, p = 0.0035). for cardiovascular events, the relative prognostic usefulness of the rna was similar, although relations with this outcome were generally weaker. descriptors from the rest/exercise rna exhibit a powerful relation with long-term outcomes and can be useful in defining risk, even when clinical and catheterization data are available.
possible mechanisms limiting n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor overactivation and the therapeutic efficacy of n-methyl-d-aspartate antagonists. cytotoxic overactivation of neuronal n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors is postulated to contribute to the pathogenesis of neuronal loss in hypoxia-ischemia. however, several events associated with hypoxia-ischemia may limit n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated injury. perhaps the most important of these events is the development of extracellular acidosis. these limiting events may help explain why n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors contribute to injury more in focal ischemia or hypoxia in vitro than in global ischemia.
human recombinant gm-csf in allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation for leukaemia: double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. in a randomised, double-blind trial 20 patients with leukaemia received human recombinant granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) and 20 received placebo, for 14 days after allogeneic, matched sibling, bone-marrow transplantation. the neutrophil count recovered to 0.5 x 10(9)/l 3 days earlier in the gm-csf group than in the placebo group (not significant), and the median neutrophil count at 14 days was significantly higher in the gm-csf group (1.90 vs 0.46 x 10(9)/l). the lymphocyte count was significantly higher in the gm-csf than in the placebo group between days 10 and 15 after transplantation, but this difference was not associated with a higher incidence of graft-versus-host disease. there was no evidence that gm-csf was associated with a greater incidence of leukaemic relapse. the gm-csf group had lower haemoglobin concentrations and platelet counts and higher plasma urea, creatinine, and bilirubin than the placebo group. the duration of hospital stay was the same for both patient groups. further studies are now indicated to assess the overall effect of gm-csf on outcome after allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation.
clozapine-related seizures. clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug with minimal extrapyramidal toxicity recently approved by the food and drug administration for hard-to-treat schizophrenic patients. we reviewed information on 1,418 patients treated with clozapine in the united states between 1972 and 1988. forty-one of 1,418 (2.8%) patients had generalized tonic-clonic seizures during treatment with clozapine. life-table analysis predicts a cumulative 10% risk of seizures after 3.8 years of treatment. clozapine-related seizures appear to be dose-related. high-dose therapy (greater than or equal to 600 mg/day) was associated with a greater risk of seizures (4.4%) than medium (300 to 600 mg/day; 2.7%) or low doses (less than 300 mg/day; 1.0%). also, rapid upward titration may increase seizure risk. thirty-one of 41 patients were successfully continued on clozapine despite seizure occurrence, either with reduction of dose or addition of an antiepileptic medication. recognition and treatment of clozapine-related seizures will become increasingly important as its use grows in the 1990s.
quality control practices in centralized tumor registries in north america. a survey of quality control practices was mailed to 73 central registries in the u.s. and canada. the response rate was 88%, with respondents representing a wide range of registry characteristics and reporting strategies. while registries expressed different priorities in data use, 80% of respondents felt quality control data were important in the identification of problems. the most common method of quality control was acceptance sampling (used by 97% of respondents), and took the form of visual review, recoding and edit checking. computer-based edit checks were almost universally used (95%). process control methods of any sort were used by only 22% of respondents with less than 4% of registries reporting formal quantitative criteria. sixty-one percent of respondents reported conducting one or more designed studies (e.g. reabstracting or casefinding studies) but only 20% of those made the results public. greater emphasis should be placed on development of quantitative process controls, experimental design of quality control studies, and formal analyses and reporting of study results.
radiation-induced cranial nerve palsy: hypoglossal nerve and vocal cord palsies. cranial nerve palsies are an unexpected complication of radiotherapy for head and neck tumours. we present a case of this radiation-induced cranial palsy. an 18-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma developed a right hypoglossal nerve palsy 42 months after cancericidal doses of radiotherapy. in addition, she developed a bilateral vocal cord palsy 62 months after therapy. follow-up over four years has demonstrated no evidence of tumour recurrence and no sign of neurological improvement.
effectiveness of radiotherapy with radical neck dissection in cancers of the head and neck. a retrospective analysis of 457 radical neck dissections performed over a 30-year period for cancers of the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx was carried out. two hundred thirteen patients underwent radiotherapy to the primary cancer site and/or to the neck. of these, 164 underwent perioperative adjuvant radiotherapy and 24 underwent definitive radiation for cure and were followed up by salvage surgery. thus, 188 patients received radiotherapy for nonrecurrent disease. twenty-five additional patients underwent radiation for surgical failure following radical neck dissection. the goal of the study was to determine whether radiotherapy altered the course or end result of the disease. the t and n stage at onset of disease was similar for the radiotherapy and nonradiotherapy groups. preoperative radiotherapy was effective in down staging the disease at the primary site and, to a lesser extent, in the lymph nodes, but had limited impact on survival. failure to control the disease in the neck occurred in 60 (32%) of the 188 patients who received radiotherapy for primary disease; recurrence rates were lower in the combined therapy group than in the surgical group of patients with n2 and n3 stages of disease. the 3-year disease-free survival was 45%; this was no better than the 63% survival rate in patients who did not receive radiotherapy, although survival was better in the combined therapy group for patients with n3 stage of disease. the worst results were in those patients who were irradiated for surgical failure (14% survival); the 24 patients who required salvage radical neck dissection following failure of definitive radiotherapy for cure had a 42% survival.
growth, thermogenesis, and hyperphagia. resting metabolic rate is demonstrated to be a function of fat-free mass and a growth variable related to food-energy-input imbalance rate. by use of obligatory energy expenditure terms, the two-reservoir energy model applied to hyperphagia shows that growth of the fat-free mass is rapid whereas that of the fat store is slow and that the growth of both is bounded. most of the excess energy at the onset of hyperphagia initially goes into the fat store, but this decreases with time until the greater fraction is diverted to the fat-free mass. the two-reservoir model predicts that weight gain per unit of excess energy is not constant but decreases monotonically until ultimately reaching an asymptotic value. departure of theory and experiment in the long term suggests that facultative considerations become increasingly important.
neurological and ophthalmological phenomena after aortic conduit surgery. transient neurological and visual signs have been observed in some patients after valved conduit replacement of the aortic valve and ascending aorta. twenty-seven patients having valved conduit replacement between february 1982 and october 1988 were compared with 21 patients having combined aortic valve replacement (avr) and ascending aorta (aa) graft replacement. follow-up in 100% of both groups was obtained for 0.3-6.6 years (mean, 2.6 +/- 0.3 years). among 20 surviving valved conduit patients, 10 (50.0%) experienced repetitive neurological and visual signs, including scotomata (seven), transient motor ischemic attacks (two), amaurosis fugax (four), and recurring attention lapses suggesting petit mal seizures (one). no patient with avr + aa graft experienced any events (p = 0.004). all valved conduit and seven (53.8%) of avr + aa graft patients were on warfarin (p = 0.0016). these events retained the same pattern although they diminished in frequency after 12 months in seven patients (70.0%) and after initiation of dipyridamole in two patients. rehabilitation was similar in both groups: 18 of 20 (90.0%) valved conduit and 12 of 16 (75.0%) avr + aa graft patients (p = ns). transient, repetitive, nonprogressive neurological and ophthalmological phenomena are frequent after valved conduit replacement. the pathophysiological mechanism is unclear, but antiplatelet therapy may provide symptomatic control.
acquired von willebrand's syndrome. therapeutic and diagnostic implications. acquired von willebrand's syndrome is a newly recognized bleeding diathesis thought to be caused by autoantibodies to the von willebrand factor. acquired von willebrand's syndrome has been reported in association with lymphoproliferative disorders and benign monoclonal gammopathies. clinical features and laboratory abnormalities of this disease are similar to congenital von willebrand's disease, but the optimal treatment may differ. we describe a 75-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and recurrent epistaxis and also discuss the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of both the congenital and acquired disorders.
moderate prenatal alcohol exposure: effects on child iq and learning problems at age 7 1/2 years. this longitudinal, prospective, population-based study examined the long-term effects of moderate prenatal alcohol exposure on 482 school aged children. maternal reports of alcohol use obtained during pregnancy were significantly related to child iq, achievement test scores, and classroom behaviors in second grade children, even after statistical adjustment for appropriate covariates. consumption of two drinks per day or more on the average was related to a 7-point decrement in iq in 7-year-old children even after statistically adjusting for appropriate covariates. low paternal education and more children in the household were identified as environmental factors exacerbating the effect of prenatal alcohol exposure on child iq. learning problems were associated with the alcohol "binge" pattern of five or more drinks on at least one occasion. this study shows that alcohol use patterns within the social drinking range can have long lasting effects on iq and learning problems in young school aged children. these patterns should not be interpreted as biologic thresholds. it should also be noted that these are group effects of prenatal alcohol exposure, not necessarily predictable in the individual child, and that for the most part these children were functioning within the normal range of intelligence.
neoplastic changes in the stomach after gastrectomy. partial gastric resection for benign ulcer disease has been associated with an increased incidence of mucosal dysplasia and invasive adenocarcinoma, particularly 15 to 20 years after resection. these remnant carcinomas are particularly virulent with little hope of resection or cure once symptoms occur. using a planned protocol of routine endoscopic surveillance with biopsy, the goal was to identify early markers of neoplasia, that is, dysplasia, and a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the gastric remnant, while both resection and cure were possible. between july 1980 and august 1988, yearly flexible gastroscopic examination and random biopsy have been performed on 163 patients at least ten years after gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease. all biopsy results were interpreted for findings of dysplasia and early gastric adenocarcinoma. results of this ongoing screening program revealed dysplasia of the gastric remnant in nine patients with eventual findings of adenocarcinoma in four of this group. these patients underwent total gastrectomy with findings of limited disease. five patients with mucosal dysplasia continue to be observed at six month intervals. three additional gastric carcinomas were found on initial gastroscopic screening, while one patient had adenocarcinoma diagnosed during a third yearly gastroscopic examination. these eight asymptomatic patients with adenocarcinoma in the gastric remnant had a postgastrectomy interval which ranged from 15 to 29 years (mean of 26.5 years). the results of this study support the concept of neoplastic change in the gastric remnant as a function of time from initial gastric resection. findings of dysplasia on random biopsy indicate a greater likelihood of development of carcinoma of the gastric remnant and identify a subset of patients requiring aggressive endoscopic surveillance.
babinski-nageotte syndrome on magnetic resonance imaging. a 70-year-old woman developed left hypoglossal nerve palsy, a right hemiparesis sparing the face, and a typical left wallenberg's syndrome. these symptoms resulted from a lesion in the left half of the medulla oblongata, suggesting babinski-nageotte syndrome, a rare cerebrovascular disease. this is the first case of ischemic infarction in the territory of the left vertebral artery and posterior inferior cerebellar artery demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging. severe bilateral lesions of the distal vertebral arteries demonstrated on digital subtraction angiography may have contributed to the development of this syndrome.
resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire objective--to investigate the results of resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire. design--study of all such attempts at resuscitation over 32 months, based on the standard report form for each call made by the ambulance staff and the electrocardiogram that showed the initial rhythm in each patient. setting--area covered by west yorkshire ambulance service. subjects--1196 patients with cardiac arrests attended by 29 ambulance staff with extended training. main outcome measure--result of resuscitation. results--the initial rhythm was asystole or electromechanical dissociation in 740 patients and ventricular fibrillation in 456 patients; overall 65 patients survived to be discharged from hospital. sixty four of the 456 patients in whom ventricular fibrillation was the initial rhythm recorded, and 46 in whom ventricular fibrillation persisted after the ambulance staff arrived, survived. only one of the 740 patients who initially had asystole or electromechanical dissociation survived. factors associated with a greater chance of ventricular fibrillation occurring were: age less than 71, the arrest being witnessed by a bystander, resuscitation by a bystander, the arrest occurring in a public place, and a response time by the ambulance staff of less than six minutes. for patients found in ventricular fibrillation a shorter response time was associated with improved survival but resuscitation by a bystander was not. additional skills learnt during extended training were used for 51 of the 65 patients who survived. conclusions--ambulance staff with extended training can save the lives of patients with cardiac arrest due to fibrillation, though asystole and electromechanical dissociation have a poor prognosis and should perhaps receive little attention during extended training.
electrocorticographic confirmation of focal positron emission tomographic abnormalities in children with intractable epilepsy. the relationship between focal disturbances of glucose utilization demonstrated by positron emission tomography (pet) and electrophysiologic abnormalities defined by intraoperative electrocorticography (ecog) was studied in eight children (aged 13 months to 12 years) who underwent cortical resection because of intractable seizures. none of the children had pure temporal lobe epilepsy. computed tomography (ct) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (mri) were normal in four of the eight children. the scalp electroencephalogram (eeg) showed lateralized interictal epileptiform abnormalities in all eight and lateralized ictal onset in five of eight. in seven children, interictal pet showed focal hypometabolism; the eighth child had focal, ictal hypermetabolism. ecog at the time of surgery showed epileptiform spiking, slowing, and/or suppression of normal background activity that in every case corresponded to the focus on pet scan. the ecog findings support the notion that in children with epilepsy focal metabolic abnormalities on pet correspond to electrophysiologically abnormal areas of cortex, which are presumably also the epileptogenic regions. such areas can appear normal on anatomic imaging studies (ct and mri). when ictal scalp eeg data are ambiguous or contradictory, pet provides a less invasive means than chronic grid or depth electrode recording for evaluating whether a localized epileptogenic area exists.
lobulated intradermal nevus. report of three cases. we report the cases of three patients with lobulated intradermal nevi. biopsy specimens showed similar findings, that is, fatty infiltration within nests of nevus cells, neuroid differentiation of nevus cells, and dermal fibrosis. our cases probably represent an unusual form of regressing melanocytic nevus.
the melanocyte and melanoma. this paper reviewed some of the interesting biological aspects of melanocytes and their relationship to the nevus and to melanoma. it also proposed a rationale for "adequate" surgery in the management of melanoma according to level, depth, margins, and trends in treatment. these propositions were derived from an analysis of 995 cases of melanoma of the head and neck.
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals. forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids), were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections (cdc group iv c, n = 28), cancers (iv d, n = 10), or limited or no symptoms (groups ii, iii, iv a, or iv b, n = 7). the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently. more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group. patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases.
protracted mononucleosis-like illness associated with acquired cytomegalovirus infection in a previously healthy child: transient cellular immune defects and chronic hepatopathy. ordinarily, severe disease due to acquired cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection does not occur in immunocompetent children. we describe a previously healthy boy who acquired primary cmv infection at approximately 2 years of age and experienced a 2-year-long debilitating multisystem illness from which he ultimately recovered. clinical features of this illness included fatigue, poor weight gain, pallor, unexplained fever, musculoskeletal complaints, drenching night sweats, lymphadenopathy, and massive hepatosplenomegaly. laboratory abnormalities included elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, lymphocytosis, and elevated immune complex levels. cellular immune function was impaired during the illness but was demonstrably normal during convalescence, and there was no other evidence for a known immunodeficiency state. immunoblot analysis showed enhanced antibody response to a 66-kd infected cell protein after symptomatic recovery. despite consistently normal indices of hepatic function, liver enlargement persisted after other symptoms had resolved. liver biopsy demonstrated a mononuclear cell portal tract infiltrate with fibrosis, but cmv could not be demonstrated directly in this tissue. primary cmv infection has not been reported previously to cause the persistent symptoms seen in this child.
somatostatin and analogues in the treatment of cancer. a review somatostatin is a naturally occurring cyclic tetradecapeptide that inhibits release of growth hormone and all gastrointestinal hormones. the beneficial effect of somatostatin in the treatment of certain hypersecretory disorders of hormone excess in well recognized; however its clinical usefulness has been limited in the past by its extremely short plasma half-life. the development of long-acting somatostatin analogues has provided clinically useful agents for treatment of hormone-producing tumors. in addition to well-known inhibiting effects on hormone release and actions, recent studies using experimental tumor models have demonstrated an antiproliferative effect of somatostatin and its analogues on growth of a variety of neoplasms. the exact role of somatostatin analogues in cancer therapy has yet to be established; however studies suggest that these agents could provide a useful and relatively nontoxic adjuvant therapy in the treatment of certain tumors. in this review, the oncologic application of somatostatin and possible mechanism of action are examined and current clinical and experimental studies are summarized.
prevalence of ulcerative colitis in the israeli kibbutz population. we carried out an epidemiological study of ulcerative colitis in 279 israeli kibbutzim (121,403 population). the prevalence on december 31, 1987 was 121.08 per 100,000 population. when the data were stratified according to ethnic groups, the highest point prevalence was found in israeli-born jews (220.56 per 100,000 population), more than in asian-african-born, or european-american-born kibbutz members (139.20 and 78.73 cases per 100,000 population, respectively). there were 68 men and 78 women (ratio of 0.87). the average age of the patients in the year of this survey was 46 years; it was 35 years at the time of diagnosis. proctitis was found in 57%, left-sided colitis in 12%, and substantial or total colitis in 31%. relapse at pregnancy was demonstrated in seven patients, and remission in one. family history of a first-degree relative with inflammatory bowel disease was documented in three patients (2%). probable complications of ulcerative colitis were observed in 38 (26%), anemia in 13 (9%). one patient (0.7%) with rectal cancer, also had breast cancer. we suggest that the impressive increase in ulcerative colitis prevalence among israeli and asian-african-born, in comparison with european-american-born kibbutz members, points toward a role of environmental factors in the etiology of this disease.
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors: a possible late effect of therapy. three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor. radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma, gliosis, and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two. no tumor was found. all 3 patients remain in long-term (greater than 10 years) continuous remission.
primary intracerebral sarcoma in childhood: case report with electron-microscope study. a case of a primary intracerebral sarcoma is described in a 5-year-old girl. histology and immunohistochemistry excluded the diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma, a malignant haemangiopericytoma or a fibrosarcoma; electron-microscopical findings indicated that the origin of the sarcoma was in the pia mater.
long-term follow-up in patients who have undergone balloon dilation for gastric outlet obstruction. although balloon dilation for gastric outlet obstruction has supplanted vagotomy plus drainage or resective therapy in some institutions, there are no long-term data which demonstrate what percentage of patients ultimately requires surgical intervention. of 23 evaluable patients treated with hydrostatic balloon dilation in our institution, 70% were asymptomatic at a mean follow-up of 2.5 years. five patients required surgery--one for acute perforation and the other four for symptoms of continued obstruction, despite one to three additional attempts at dilation. only three of seven patients with previous gastric resection had a satisfactory long-term result. whereas endoscopic therapy initially cost one tenth to one fifth that of surgical intervention, such figures do not factor for loss of productivity, on the one hand, or potential need for chronic h2 blockade, on the other. despite instruction to the contrary, only 6 of 15 (40%) active patients continue acid-suppressive therapy. we conclude that balloon dilation remains a viable alternative for selected patients with gastric outlet obstruction.
extended release felodipine in essential hypertension. variations in blood pressure during whole-day continuous ambulatory recording. intraarterial blood pressure (bp) monitoring during free ambulation (oxford technique) was carried out in 12 essential mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients undergoing 4 weeks treatment with felodipine, 10 mg given once daily in an extended release formulation. compared to placebo, felodipine significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout 24 h. the greatest reduction was observed at 10 am, 3 h after drug administration (-32 +/- 6/-24 +/- 5 mm hg for systolic and diastolic bp, respectively, p less than .001). hourly bp values remained significantly lower up to and including the 24th hour during felodipine extended release treatment (-18 +/- 5/-11 +/- 3 mm hg, p less than .001). felodipine extended release also reduced 24 h blood pressure variability, evaluated on the standard deviation of each hourly mean (from 16.3 +/- 0.9/12.6 +/- 0.6 to 13.4 +/- 0.6/10.4 +/- 0.6 mm hg, p less than .01). furthermore, absolute bp values dropped significantly at the peaks of dynamic exercise (bicycle ergometer: from 248 +/- 13/123 +/- 11 to 204 +/- 24/102 +/- 13 mm hg, p less than .001), isometric exercise (hand grip: from 232 +/- 18/133 +/- 16 to 180 +/- 20/101 +/- 16 mm hg, p less than .001), and cold pressor test (from 229 +/- 20/127 +/- 14 to 178 +/- 22/99 +/- 15 mm hg, p less than .001). in conclusion, felodipine extended release exerts a good antihypertensive effect which is maintained for 24 h and reduces the level of blood pressure peaks reached under different physical stresses.
multiple adenomas of the human pituitary. a retrospective autopsy study with clinical implications. in a review of autopsy material from two centers, 20 pituitary glands were found containing multiple adenomas. in total, 44 adenomas were identified histologically; 16 glands contained double tumors and in four glands triple adenomas were found. size was measured in 30 tumors, all of which were microadenomas. thirty-four adenomas were located in the lateral wings and 10 lay in the median wedge. forty-one tumors were chromophobic and three were basophilic. immunocytochemical analysis of the 44 tumors demonstrated the presence of prolactin in 11, adrenocorticotropic hormone in three, growth hormone in one, and alpha-subunit as well as follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in one. of the 20 patients studied, there were 11 men and nine women, with an average age of 69 years. all patients died from various nonendocrine causes. with the exception of one patient who appeared mildly acromegalic, no correlation was observed between pituitary morphology and clinical data. this study found a 10.4% frequency of adenomas in pituitaries studied randomly at autopsy. multiple tumors were encountered in 0.9% of cases. despite its low frequency, adenoma multiplicity may underlie surgical failure in cases in which one adenoma is removed and the other is left behind.
internuclear ophthalmoplegia in the chiari type ii malformation. we describe 3 cases of chiari type ii malformation presenting with bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia (ino). although prominent, the ino was not an isolated sign in any of the patients; superimposed abduction paresis was present in 2, and deficits in smooth pursuit, optokinetic nystagmus, and vestibulo-ocular responses were present in 3. two had hydrocephalus: 1 was clinically unchanged without therapy after 5 years; the other did not improve with shunting. findings in our 3 patients, along with the 4 previously reported, confirm that ino is 1 manifestation of widespread brainstem or cerebellar dysfunction. its origin is probably multifactorial, related to hydrocephalus, vascular compromise, direct neuronal distortion, or congenital neural malformation.
stomal adenocarcinoma in crohn's disease. malignant change occurring at the site of a stoma in two patients with proved crohn's disease is described. patients with ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of colonic malignancy and crohn's disease is also associated with both small and large bowel carcinoma. most previous reports of stomal carcinoma have been associated with ulcerative colitis although crohn's disease seems to carry a greater risk of associated small bowel carcinomas. this is the first report of stomal carcinoma complicating crohn's disease. epithelial dysplasia is associated with gastrointestinal carcinomas in both ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease and a dysplasia-carcinoma sequence has been suggested as the origin of these tumours. in both our patients with stomal adenocarcinoma, dysplasia was identified in adjacent tissues, which suggests a similar mechanism. malignant change should be suspected if epithelial dysplasia is discovered in a biopsy specimen from the mucosa of an ileostomy in crohn's disease, and this risk is increased if the dysplasia is of a high grade.
the use of flumazenil in a neonate. side effects of benzodiazepines used during pregnancy are described in a neonate. recurrent apnea was reversed after administration of flumazenil, a specific antagonist of benzodiazepines.
expression of hla-dr and secretory component antigens and lymphocyte infiltration in human gastric nonmalignant and malignant tissues: an immunohistochemical study. the relation between hla-dr and secretory component (sc) expression and the degree of lymphocyte infiltration was immunohistochemically examined in human gastric mucosa with or without intestinal metaplasia and gastric carcinoma tissues. gastric mucosa without obvious inflammation showed neither expression of hla-dr or sc nor remarkable lymphoid infiltration. in contrast, gastric mucosa with chronic inflammation, tissues with incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia, and carcinoma demonstrated both hla-dr and sc in almost the same area and also prominent lymphoid infiltration in the surrounding stroma. this simultaneous expression of hla-dr and sc was not observed in complete type of intestinal metaplasia. the results indicate a close relationship between expression of hla-dr and sc and the presence of lymphocyte infiltration in gastric mucosa, areas of incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia and in gastric carcinomas.
sclerotherapy for esophageal varices. endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (eis) frequently is used for patients with esophageal varices, both for controlling acute hemorrhage and for prophylaxis. an old technique, interest in eis increased when other methods did not improve patient outcomes. clinical trials of eis for acute hemorrhage demonstrated efficacy and improved outcome, although some researchers disagree with these findings. recent data on prophylaxis with eis fail to support the value of eis for this indication. ethanolamine oleate compares favorably with other sclerosing agents, and is the only one currently approved for eis. the intravariceal method is used more frequently than the paravariceal method because it has better efficacy and can be performed more rapidly. the percentage of patients developing significant complications from eis may be as high as 15 percent; common complications include retrosternal pain, pyrexia, and sepsis. eis is currently an important clinical tool in the management of esophageal varices.
dopamine and high-dose insulin infusion (glucose-insulin-potassium) after a cardiac operation: effects on myocardial metabolism. myocardial insulin resistance, in association with surgical stress, restricts the availability of carbohydrates and increases the load of free fatty acids (ffas) on the heart. on theoretical grounds adrenergic drugs may be expected to aggravate this situation, whereas the opposite is expected from insulin. the influence of dopamine and a combination of dopamine (7 micrograms/kg body weight/min) and high-dose insulin (7 iu/kg) on myocardial energy metabolism was studied in 19 patients 4 to 6 hours after a coronary operation. infusion of dopamine (7 micrograms/kg body weight/min) induced metabolic changes that may be unfavorable to the strained myocardium. there was an increase of the myocardial ffa load and a rise in myocardial oxygen expenditure by 60% to 70%. there changes were, however, not matched by an increase in myocardial substrate uptake. "oxygen wastage" of ffa metabolism at high circulating catecholamine levels is suggested. there were also signs suggesting an amplified systemic trauma response: systemic oxygen consumption increased by 15%, and an increase in the arterial levels of ffas, glucose, and ketones was observed. divergent metabolic effects of dopamine and insulin were demonstrated. the most prominent metabolic effects of adding high-dose insulin to dopamine were a marked reduction of arterial ffa levels and a shift toward myocardial carbohydrate utilization at the expense of ffas. myocardial uptake of ffas ceased. myocardial insulin resistance may thus to a significant extent be overcome by supraphysiological doses of insulin, even during infusion of adrenergic drugs.
laser angioplasty in peripheral vascular disease: symptomatic versus hemodynamic results. most early reports on the efficacy of laser angioplasty have used subjective symptoms rather than objective hemodynamic parameters to evaluate clinical results. we reviewed our experience with hot tip laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in 99 occluded or stenotic arterial segments during 80 procedures in 71 patients, ranging from the aortic bifurcation to the tibial-peroneal trunk. initial failure to successfully recanalize occluded or stenotic segments occurred in 13 instances (16%). forty-one procedure-related complications occurred in 31 patients (39%). functional results were evaluated by use of life-table methods on the basis of symptomatic versus hemodynamic improvement. cumulative patency rates for symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement were 91% and 64% at 1 month, 71% and 48% at 6 months, and 57% and 34% at 1 year, respectively. these data suggest that symptomatic improvement alone gives a misleadingly high estimate of the efficacy of laser angioplasty when compared with more objective hemodynamic criteria (p less than 0.005). hemodynamic success was more likely in aortoiliac lesions than femoropopliteal lesions (58% vs 18% at 1 year, p less than 0.01). hemodynamic parameters should be used to evaluate the success of laser angioplasty, which in its present form, is associated with frequent complications and poor long-term success.
intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis. negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30% of patients. a previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group. the etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations; however, investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes. this report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography, in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma. for this reason, cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography.
human growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 enhance the proliferation of human leukemic blasts. as the number of long-term survivors of childhood leukemia increases, growth retardation has emerged as a significant complication. treatment of these children with growth hormone (gh) has been suggested and sporadically implemented. we, therefore, studied the effect of human gh (hgh) and its by-product insulin-like growth factor-1 (igf-1) on the growth of leukemic cells in vitro. under serum-free conditions hgh and igf-1 induced a significant dose-dependent proliferative effect on promyelocytic leukemia (hl60) and burkitt's lymphoma (daudi) cell lines. anti-hgh antibodies negated the stimulatory effect of hgh and anti-igf-1 serum abrogated the growth-promoting effect enhanced by igf-1. similar statistically significant stimulatory properties were found when freshly obtained marrow cells from four of five acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) of childhood and four acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) patients were studied in all and aml blast-cell clonogenic assays. all colonies increased numerically by 72% (p less than .025) and aml colonies by 92% (p less than .01) in the presence of hgh at concentrations of 2.5 x 10(2) and 3.0 x 10(2) ng/ml, respectively. igf-1 stimulated all and aml blast-colony growth at concentrations ranging from 0.05 to 0.5 ng/ml by up to 105% (p less than .025) and 65% (p less than .03), respectively. our in vitro data suggest that circulating hgh and igf-1 may promote leukemic blast cell replication in vivo, and the supplemental administration of hgh to leukemia patients in remission must be carefully monitored for early relapse.
prognostic significance of nondiploid dna determined by flow cytometry in sporadic and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma. to clarify the role of dna measurements in predicting outcome after surgical treatment of medullary thyroid carcinoma (mtc), we performed flow cytometric analysis in nuclear suspensions of 119 mtc tumors. of the 119 patients, 63 (53%) patients had sporadic tumors and 56 (47%) patients had familial tumors; survivors were followed for a mean of 13 years. dna content was normal in 92 (77%) patients and abnormal (nondiploid) in 27 (23%) patients. ten-year cause-specific mortality rates were 12%, 42%, and 49% with diploid, tetraploid/polyploid, or aneuploid tumors (p = 0.0009) and were greater with nondiploid tumors both in the sporadic (p = 0.012) and multiple endocrine neoplasia (familial) cases (p = 0.114). none of 27 patients with tnm stage i disease died of mtc. in patients with tnm stages ii, iii, and iv disease, dna nondiploid tumors were associated with increased deaths from mtc. in a cox proportional hazards model involving all 119 patients and adjusted for disease stage and inheritance pattern, nondiploid dna was independently associated with increased deaths from mtc (p = 0.008). in an identical cox model restricted to the 92 dna diploid tumors, an s-phase fraction of 15.0% or more remained a significant variable (p = 0.034) after adjustment for stage and inheritance pattern. we therefore conclude that dna measurements do have a role to play in predicting outcome after surgical treatment of mtc.
compensatory mechanisms in degenerative neurologic diseases. insights from parkinsonism. in animal models of parkinsonism, the ability to lose a substantial proportion of dopaminergic neurons without behavioral deficits does not derive from other systems taking over function of the dopaminergic pathway. the surviving nigrostriatal projection increases both the rate of synthesis and the release of dopamine, as compensatory adjustments. this capacity allows at least a fivefold rise in dopamine delivery per neuron, and this enhancement is potentiated further by receptor up-regulation. decreased reuptake, due to loss of nerve endings, may also lead to augmented occupancy of dopamine receptors, and so constitute yet another compensatory mechanism. in humans, positron emission tomography has revealed subclinical impairment of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway in subjects at risk for parkinsonism caused by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and lytico-bodig (the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism dementia complex of guam). however, the separation of patients with clinically overt idiopathic parkinsonism from controls is less marked in vivo (by positron emission tomography) than in postmortem analysis (by neurochemical assay). this disparity may be attributable to the reduction in the number of nigrostriatal nerve endings, leading, in vivo, to a relative increase of extracellular dopamine because active reuptake into the nerve endings is an important mechanism for removing dopamine from the synaptic cleft. in contrast, in a postmortem setting, dopamine that is not sequestered in the storage vesicles of nerve endings is readily available for biochemical degradation during the interval between death and brain analysis. finally, it is also possible that differences may derive, in part, from dissimilar kinetic systems for handling exogenous and endogenous levodopa.
further evaluation of radical surgery following radiotherapy for advanced parotid carcinoma. a series of 30 patients who have been treated for advanced carcinoma of the parotid gland using radiotherapy followed by radical surgery is presented. three patients deteriorated during preoperative radiotherapy and remained unfit for surgery; the remaining 27 underwent radical parotidectomy with block dissection of the neck. twelve patients received additional radiotherapy after operation. of those patients undergoing surgery, three have been lost to follow-up, 17 have died and seven remain alive; the period of follow-up ranges from 3 to 133 months. fourteen patients remained free of recurrent disease at death or when last seen, and six patients developed a local recurrence at a medium period of 10.5 (range 3-36) months after surgery. for all 30 patients, the cumulative proportion surviving for 5 years was 30 per cent.
benign intracranial hypertension after ciprofloxacin administration. many drugs, including antibiotics, have been implicated in the aetiology of benign intracranial hypertension. we report the development of benign intracranial hypertension after the use of ciprofloxacin in a teenager with cystic fibrosis.
treatment of spasticity with botulinum toxin: a double-blind study. we studied the effect of botulinum-a toxin on spasticity of the leg adductors in 9 patients who were either chair-bound or bed-bound with chronic stable multiple sclerosis. we injected botulinum toxin (400 mouse units) or placebo into the adductor muscles in a randomized, crossover, double-blind design. two physicians, who were unaware of the treatment order, used an objective rating scale and independently assessed the patients; interobserver correlation was excellent (r = 0.93-0.81). we found that botulinum toxin produced a significant reduction in spasticity (p = 0.009) and a significant improvement in the ease of nursing care (p = 0.009). there were no adverse effects during this short-term trial. this is the first demonstration of the beneficial effect of botulinum toxin on focal spastic muscle contractions.
detection and direct sequencing of hepatitis b virus genome by dna amplification method. hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna was detected with amplification by the polymerase chain reaction method. cloned hbv dna equivalent to one virus genome (3 x 10(-6) pg) was detectable by ethidium bromide staining after 50 cycles of polymerase chain reaction. by applying this method, presence of hbv dna was studied in 23 hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag)-positive and 11 hbsag-negative sera from patients with chronic liver disease. hepatitis b virus dna was positive in 8 of 8 hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag)-positive, in 2 of 2 hbeag- and anti-hbe-negative, and in 12 of 13 anti-hbe-positive sera. hepatitis b virus dna was undetectable in all hbsag-negative sera even with amplification. to confirm specificity, the amplified product was directly sequenced. sequences around 122nd and 160th codon of hbs gene, which determines subtypes d/y and w/r, respectively, were analyzed. the results were compatible with recent reports regarding the relation between hbv subtypes and hbv dna sequence at those codons. hepatitis b virus dna could be detected at the level of one virion by gene amplification method, and its sequence could be determined by direct sequencing in a few days.
serum erythropoietin levels in patients receiving intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy. to investigate the potential role of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhepo) in patients receiving intensive cytotoxic therapy, we measured the endogenous levels of epo in 31 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation (bmt). seventeen patients underwent allogeneic bmt and 14 underwent autologous bmt. on average, 10 +/- 4 units of red blood cells (rbcs) were transfused per patient. the mean rbc transfusion requirement of the autologous bmt patients was significantly greater than that of the allogeneic recipients (12 +/- 3 v 8 +/- 4, p less than .01), although both groups were maintained at comparable hematocrits. epo levels were measured by radioimmunoassay (ria). for each patient, baseline serum epo levels were determined at time of admission to the hospital. subsequent samples were collected within 24 hours of completing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, and on days 7, 14, and 28, after bmt. hematocrits (hcts) were measured daily. all patients had an initial serum creatinine less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dl. despite considerable differences in absolute epo levels among individuals, a characteristic pattern was observed. following admission to the hospital and initiation of cytotoxic therapy, the average hct decreased and the average epo level initially increased. the mean serum epo levels peaked on day 7 post-bmt (284 +/- 190 mu/ml) and fell steadily thereafter. while the average hcts on day 7 and on day 28 post-bmt were not significantly different (28 +/- 4.6% v 29 +/- 3.3%, respectively), the average serum epo levels decreased fourfold (p less than .01) during this same period. moreover, day 28 post-bmt mean epo levels were inappropriately low (p less than .05) when compared with a reference population with bone marrow failure and normal controls who had not received cytotoxic therapy. we conclude that the endogenous epo response appears to be blunted during the 3 to 4 weeks immediately post-bmt. therefore, clinical trials assessing the efficacy of the administration of rhepo in the treatment of anemias associated with cytotoxic therapy are warranted.
a prospective study of the incidence and natural history of femoral vascular complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. over a 14-month period patients undergoing 144 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures were evaluated for the presence of complications at the femoral puncture site. after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty each patient was examined by a surgeon, and then a color-flow duplex scan of the groin was obtained. on the initial scan eight pseudoaneurysms, three arteriovenous fistulas, one combined arteriovenous fistula-pseudoaneurysm, and one thrombosed superficial femoral artery were detected for a major vascular complication rate of 9%. pseudoaneurysm formation was associated with the use of heparin after removal of the arterial sheath. seven pseudoaneurysms (initial extravascular cavity size range 1.3 to 3.5 cm) were followed with weekly duplex scans, and all thrombosed spontaneously within 4 weeks of detection. the three patients with isolated arteriovenous fistulas were each followed for at least 8 weeks, and the arteriovenous fistulas persisted. early surgical intervention for postcatheterization femoral pseudoaneurysms is usually unnecessary as thrombosis often occurs spontaneously. we would advocate an operative approach for pseudoaneurysms that are symptomatic, expanding, or associated with large hematomas. iatrogenic femoral arteriovenous fistulas should be considered for elective repair, but this may be delayed for several weeks without adverse sequelae.
sacral plexus injury after radiotherapy for carcinoma of cervix. a 42-year-old woman developed lower extremity weakness and sensory loss 1 year after external and intracavitary radiotherapy for stage ib carcinoma of cervix. she has been followed for 5 years posttreatment, and the neurologic abnormalities have persisted, but no evidence of recurrent carcinoma has been found. we believe this to be a rare case of sacral plexus radiculopathy developing as a late complication after radiotherapy. suggestions are made for improving the radiotherapy technique to prevent this complication in future cases.
comparison of sublingual captopril and nifedipine in immediate treatment of hypertensive emergencies. a randomized, single-blind clinical trial. sublingual captopril (25 mg) was compared with sublingual nifedipine (10 mg) to determine their effectiveness and safety in the treatment of hypertensive emergencies. in nine of 10 patients who received sublingual captopril, mean (+/- sd) systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure dropped from 245 +/- 39 to 190 +/- 25 mm hg (p less than .0025) and from 144 +/- 8 to 115 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than .001) at 50 minutes, respectively. the hypotensive effect of the drug was maintained for a mean of 4 hours. in six of nine responders to sublingual captopril, blood pressure-lowering effect was associated with a clear improvement of end-organ failure within 60 minutes. there were no side effects, including a dangerous fall in blood pressure or reflex tachycardia. sublingual nifedipine lowered diastolic blood pressure and systolic blood pressure in eight of 10 patients. the hypotensive effect of nifedipine was more rapid than that of captopril (10 vs 20 minutes for diastolic blood pressure and 20 vs 30 minutes for systolic blood pressure, respectively), but no difference was observed in the time or in the magnitude of peak hypotensive effect between the two treatments, nor was a difference observed in the duration of hypotensive effect. in six of eight responders to nifedipine therapy, a clear improvement of symptoms and signs of end-organ failure was observed within 60 minutes. in three patients, minor side effects were observed. we conclude that sublingual captopril effectively and safely lowers arterial blood pressure in patients with hypertensive emergencies.
labetalol and mri as initial medical and diagnostic modalities in a marfanoid patient with expanding ascending aortic aneurysm. marfan syndrome is a hereditable disorder of connective tissue that causes several distinct cardiovascular abnormalities, including aortic regurgitation, dissection, and aneurysm. these cardiac manifestations can be identified with echocardiography, computer tomography, and angiography. standard treatment of an acute hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome uses propranolol and sodium nitroprusside. this patient with marfan syndrome whose case is reported herein presented with chest pain, hypertensive crisis, and aortic insufficiency; labetalol was used successfully to treat the acute hypertensive crisis and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was used to differentiate between aortic dissection and an expanding aortic aneurysm. this report is unique in that labetalol was used to control the hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome and mri was used as the initial diagnostic modality in an emergency setting.
the standardized assessment of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions in meningeal tumors. tissue markers of cellular proliferation have been recently utilized as prognostic indicators in tumors of the central nervous system. nucleolar organizer regions represent transcriptionally active sites of ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) and can be identified by a simple argyrophilic technique. the authors describe a standardized approach to the assessment of these argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions in meningeal tumors. twenty-five meningiomas were classified histologically into benign, atypical, or malignant groups. in addition, two hemangiopericytomas and one leptomeningeal melanoma were examined. appropriate sections were silver stained and argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions were counted in 200 nuclei. the mean argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region count was statistically different (p less than 0.001) between benign tumors (245 +/- 156, 1.23/cell), atypical tumors (497 +/- 135, 2.49/cell), and malignant tumors (921 +/- 59, 4.61/cell). the count for recurrent meningiomas (544 +/- 76) was also statistically different (p less than 0.02) from non-recurrent tumors (329 +/- 183). the standardized assessment of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions can be easily performed by any surgical pathology laboratory without specialized equipment and, in meningeal tumors, may be useful as an independent indicator of biological behavior.
mixed connective tissue disease with arterial thrombosis, antiphospholipid antibodies and heparin induced thrombocytopenia. we report a patient with mixed connective tissue disease (mctd) who presented with thrombosis of the right femoral artery in association with antiphospholipid antibodies (apl). when treated surgically and with heparin prophylaxis, she developed heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis which necessitated amputation of a lower limb. thus our patient developed 2 separate groups of autoantibodies associated with thrombotic events. our case highlights an association between thrombosis, apl and mctd. furthermore, it emphasizes a need for intensive monitoring when hypercoaguable individuals with connective tissue disorders are treated with heparin.
continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for amputation surgery--a pilot study. a pilot study of continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for lower limb amputation is presented. at the time of exposure of sciatic or posterior tibial nerve trunks during above- or below-knee amputations in 11 patients with asa physical status iii or iv, a catheter was introduced directly into the transected nerve sheath for continuous infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine at a rate of 10 ml/h for 72 h. effective amputation stump analgesia was obtained, significantly reducing the need for on-demand narcotic analgesics during this time to a mean dose equivalent of 1.4 mg of morphine compared with a retrospective control group who received the equivalent of a mean dose of 18.4 mg of morphine (p less than 0.0001). no complications related to the technique were observed. a follow-up of the group receiving continuous postoperative regional analgesia for up to 12 mo showed a total absence of phantom pain despite the presence of preoperative limb pain.
the significance of leu 8 negative t cells in lymphoid skin infiltrates: malignant transformation, selective homing or t-cell activation? the expression of leu 8 was studied on skin biopsies from a large group of patients with benign and malignant skin disorders and correlated with the expression of t-cell differentiation antigens and activation markers. the effect of in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood t cells and t-cell subsets on the expression of leu 8 antigen was also determined. in all the skin diseases studied an inverse relationship was found between the proportions of cells expressing leu 8 and hla-dr. a deficiency of leu 8 positive cells was not specific for mycosis fungoides, but was also found in several reactive dermatoses. stimulation of peripheral blood cells with phytohaemagglutinin (pha), concanavalin a (con a), and anti-cd3-pma resulted in a considerable decrease of leu 8 antigen expression on day 3 in both cd4+ and cd8+ t cells. these data suggest that the low proportion of leu 8+ t cells in mycosis fungoides and several reactive skin disorders is not related to malignant transformation or selective homing of leu 8- t cells, but probably results from local t-cell activation.
bronchoalveolar lavage findings in a patient with the organic dust toxic syndrome. a previously healthy student developed the organic dust toxic syndrome after unloading a grain silo for one day. bronchoalveolar lavage seven days later showed a total cell count six times normal with 70% lymphocytes. this suggests that the previously described acute neutrophil influx into the alveolar spaces in this syndrome is rapidly replaced by a lymphocyte dominated infiltration.
proximal placement of the acetabular component in total hip arthroplasty. a long-term follow-up study. a retrospective review was undertaken of thirty-seven hips (thirty-four patients) that had had a complex cemented total hip arthroplasty. in these hips, circumstances had necessitated that the center of the hip be placed farther proximally, as measured from the interteardrop line, than the anatomical position that is normally used. the mean duration of clinical and roentgenographic follow-up was eleven years (range, seven to seventeen years), and the mean age of the patients was fifty-one years (range, sixteen to seventy-three years). most of these hips had a major deficiency or defect of the acetabular bone stock, or both. of the six acetabular components (16 per cent) that became loose and were followed for ten years, only one needed revision. because this study was aimed specifically at assessment of the acetabular component, if the femoral component alone needed revision, the final clinical rating that was used was the one obtained after the femoral revision. thirty-one hips (84 per cent) were rated as having a good or excellent result; they had an average harris hip-rating score of 43 points preoperatively and 93 points postoperatively. thirty-three of the thirty-seven acetabular components were not substantially displaced laterally as compared with the anatomical location that is normally used. our findings suggest that, when circumstances dictate, proximal positioning of the acetabular component without lateral displacement can give an acceptable result in cemented total hip-replacement procedures.
regional cardiac adrenergic function using i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine tomographic imaging after acute myocardial infarction. the effect of acute myocardial infarction (ami) on regional cardiac adrenergic function was studied in 27 patients mean +/- standard deviation 10 +/- 4 days after ami. regional adrenergic function was evaluated noninvasively with i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine (mibg) using a dedicated 3-detector tomograph. four hours after its administration, there was reduced mibg uptake in the region of infarction, 0.38 +/- 0.31 counts/pixel/mci x 103 compared with 0.60 +/- 0.30 counts/pixel/mci x 103 and 0.92 +/- 0.35 counts/pixel/mci x 103 in the zones bordering and distant from the infarct area, respectively, p less than 0.001. in all patients, the area of reduced mibg uptake after 4 hours was more extensive that the associated thallium-201 perfusion defect with defect scores of 52 +/- 22 and 23 +/- 18%, respectively, p less than 0.001. after anterior wall ami, the 4-hour mibg defect score was 70 +/- 13% and the degree of mismatch between myocardial perfusion and mibg uptake was 30 +/- 9% compared with 39 +/- 17 and 21 +/- 17% after inferior ami, p less than 0.001 and p = 0.016, respectively. the 4-hour mibg defect score correlated inversely with the predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction, r = -0.73, p less than 0.001. patients with ventricular arrhythmia of greater than or equal to 1 ventricular premature complexes per hour, paired ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia detected during the late hospital phase had higher 4-hour mibg defect scores, 62.5 +/- 15.0%, than patients with no detectable complex ventricular ectopic activity and a ventricular premature complex frequency of less than 1 per hour, 44.6 +/- 23.4%, p = 0.036.
dorsal rhizotomy for children with cerebral palsy: support for concepts of motor control. the results from selective dorsal rhizotomy research suggest that therapists need to question some common clinical assumptions about movement dysfunction. the rationale for performing a selective dorsal rhizotomy is based on the clinical assumptions that spasticity is the underlying cause of disordered movement and that reducing or eliminating the spasticity will improve movement. this article reviews the literature related to movement dysfunction, the effects of selective dorsal rhizotomy, and the evidence for disordered motor control in children with spastic cerebral palsy. selective dorsal rhizotomy appears to reduce spasticity and increase joint range of motion. abnormal movement patterns, however, persist after the spasticity is reduced. well-coordinated movement patterns are acquired slowly and appear to be related to an intense period of physical therapy. i argue that these results provide evidence that the presence of spasticity alone is an insufficient explanation for abnormal movement patterns. i propose that physical therapists redirect their efforts from developing methods for reducing spasticity to developing adequate assessment, treatment, and measurement techniques for assessing motor control in children with cerebral palsy. i believe we can maximize the functional potential of children with cerebral palsy by identifying problems related to motor control and applying sound principles of motor learning to treatment.
nonsquamous tumors of the head and neck in the geriatric population. thyroid tumors, salivary gland tumors, and non-hodgkin's lymphoma are described. psychosocial issues involving the geriatric patient are discussed. case reports of a number of geriatric tumor patients are included.
acute hypercalcemic crisis after an open heart operation. acute hyperparathyroidism developed in a previously normocalcemic 64-year-old woman during the first week after a coronary operation. prolonged qt interval in the electrocardiogram and hypercalcemia were documented on the fourth postoperative day. neck exploration on the fifth postoperative day revealed a lower right parathyroid adenoma. parathyroidectomy resulted in rapid and dramatic improvement of the clinical picture and normalization of laboratory values.
reduction of mortality, sudden death and non-fatal reinfarction with beta-adrenergic blockers in survivors of acute myocardial infarction: a new hypothesis regarding the cardioprotective action of beta-adrenergic blockade. beta-adrenergic blockers have been shown definitely to reduce the incidence of total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, sudden death and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction. the mechanisms to explain this protective action of beta blockers have never been elucidated conclusively, and include the antiarrhythmic and myocardial oxygen demand-reducing effects of the drugs. an antithrombotic mechanism has also been suggested. however, beta blockers have relatively weak antiplatelet activity, suggesting that their antithrombotic effects may be related to prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than direct anticoagulant action. the therapeutic ability of beta blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surges, may protect a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque from fracture, thereby reducing risk of coronary thrombosis, myocardial infarction and death.
surgical management of nonparasitic cystic liver disease. we report clinical features, surgical management, recurrences, and follow-up study of 12 patients with simple hepatic cyst, 11 patients with polycystic liver disease, and 19 patients with cystadenoma who were surgically treated over a 25-year period. the median age of patients was 48 years, and 37 women and 5 men were in the series. the most common presenting symptom and physical finding were chronic abdominal pain and tenderness in the right upper quadrant. the most commonly associated disease was polycystic kidney disease, which was an associated finding in 5 of the 11 patients with polycystic liver disease (45%). the most valuable diagnostic studies in all groups were computed tomography and ultrasonography. the location of the disease was bilobar in patients with polycystic liver disease, with a right lobe predominance in 18% of patients. the right lobe was also predominant in 83% of patients with simple hepatic cyst and 58% of patients with cystadenoma. of all solitary cystic lesions in the left lobe, 75% of them were cystadenomas. of the 66 surgical procedures performed, aspiration was associated with a failure rate of 100%; partial excision, a failure rate of 61%; and total excision and liver resection, a failure rate of 0%. orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in three patients and was associated with two early deaths. partial excision relieved symptoms in three patients (43%) with polycystic liver disease. total excision, enucleation, or liver resection with cyst(s) is the treatment of choice for non-parasitic cystic lesions of the liver.
changes in ventricular fibrillation threshold during the development of perinephritic hypertension. established hypertension is associated with enhanced susceptibility to life-threatening arrhythmias. however, little is known about the effects of the development of hypertension on the electro-physiological properties of the heart. to study this relationship, dogs were chronically instrumented for recording mean arterial pressure and conducting cardiac electrical testing during right ventricular pacing using an intracavitary bipolar catheter. in normotension, ventricular fibrillation threshold was determined under alpha-chloralose anesthesia, after which perinephritic hypertension was induced by wrapping one kidney in silk followed by contralateral nephrectomy. during serial testing of the same animals, ventricular fibrillation threshold was significantly increased early in the development of hypertension (2 to 3 weeks after renal wrapping), but found to be significantly reduced at 6 to 7 weeks after renal wrapping. the increase in ventricular fibrillation threshold was eliminated by cholinergic blockade.
gonadotroph adenoma of the pituitary mimicking a prolactinoma. in a 41-year-old woman with mild hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea, preoperative hormonal and neuroradiological findings suggested the diagnosis of a macroprolactinoma. she underwent transsphenoidal surgery since the tumor size had not changed in spite of bromocriptine administration for 5 months. consequently, this case was diagnosed as a female-type gonadotroph adenoma on the basis of its characteristic ultrastructural features including a honeycomb golgi complex, even though endocrinological and immunohistochemical findings were not those of a typical gonadotroph adenoma.
intravascular stents. general principles and status of lower-extremity arterial applications. the two major types of intravascular stents are balloon expandable and self-expanding. many animal and, more recently, clinical studies have begun to delineate the real and potential roles of stents. although the ideal intravascular stent does not exist, it is possible to identify characteristics of the hypothetical ideal stent. iliac and femoropopliteal arterial applications of metallic stents are reviewed. stents have proved useful in postangioplasty elastic recoil, in some cases of postangioplasty restenosis, and in angioplasty-induced dissection. their role in primary angioplasty procedures is still uncertain, although in iliac angioplasty the immediate hemodynamic effects of angioplasty plus stenting are superior to those of angioplasty alone. it is clear that metallic stents have not solved the problem of postangioplasty restenosis, as restenosis still occurs in a significant number of cases. this problem is particularly evident in the femoropopliteal stent procedures, in which angiographic restenosis (more than 50% single diameter stenosis) at 6 months after treatment has occurred in approximately 30% of cases. the existence of poststenting restenosis, which often involves the stented segment, underscores the need for better drug regimens in angioplasty and for better understanding of the intimal fibrocellular proliferative response of the vessel wall to injury. although potentially very useful, biodegradable stents are still a dream whose realization will demand the development of better materials.
status of cochlear implantation in children. american academy of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery subcommittee on cochlear implants. the cochlear implant is a medical device, part of which is placed surgically, that uses electrical stimulation to provide hearing. for almost a decade, investigational studies have been ongoing to define its safety and efficacy in profoundly deaf children. during this period, more than 500 children aged 2 through 17 years have been implanted with either a single-electrode or multielectrode device. extensive auditory, speech, educational, and psychologic testing has been performed before and after implantation. results show that the cochlear implant provides auditory detection over much of the speech signal. compared with the preimplant period, there is significant improvement in auditory discrimination and speech production skills. limited open-set word and sentence recognition is possible for at least some children. complications with the device have been minimal. the cochlear implant can provide sound to deaf children unable to benefit from hearing aids. the complex assessment, rehabilitation, and parent counseling should be performed by centers with the multidisciplinary staffs necessary to provide effective care for patients with this specialized auditory prosthesis.
aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. a 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss, pain, and redness in her right eye. results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative. neurologic problems, bronchopulmonary pneumonia, recurrent skin lesions, and a low-grade fever developed. progressive respiratory distress ensued, and the patient died 1 month after presentation. cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for aspergillus terreus. postmortem histologic results showed extensive a terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous, retina, choroid, and anterior optic nerve. this organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland, left kidney, thyroid, urinary bladder, right lung, skin, esophagus, sputum, vessels of the myocardium, and brain. to our knowledge, a terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously.
predicting treatment outcome in nocturnal enuresis. a presenting sample of 127 consecutive referrals to a community based enuresis clinic were evaluated after treatment with baseline behavioural recording and the enuresis alarm. almost one in five became dry after baseline recording only while 81 of 96 (84%) enuretics who used the alarm achieved the initial dryness criterion. successful outcome was associated with the absence of adverse environmental factors and psychiatric disorders in the child. a logistic regression procedure enabled a risk score to be created so that successful outcome could be predicted. psychiatric disorder in the child, family stress, and the degree of concern shown by the child emerged as the most important prognostic factors in the treatment of enuresis. the favourable success rates with baseline recording and the enuresis alarm confirm the role of conditioning treatment at the forefront of management of enuresis and the risk score allows outcome to be predicted for the first time.
does percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty accelerate atherosclerotic lesions? recent reports have suggested that angioplasty may cause or accelerate coronary arterial stenoses secondary to traumatic injury. ninety-four coronary angiograms performed in a 1 yr period were reviewed in patients who had successful coronary angioplasty 6 to 30 mo (mean 10.7) prior to restudy. restenosis was found in 43 of 140 dilated lesions (31%) and in 41 of 94 patients (44%). thirty-three (35%) patients had new or progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site. new or progressive lesions occurred with similar frequency in the arteries that did not have angioplasty (23/155 = 15%) as in the arteries that did (13/127 = 10%; chi-square n.s.). in the arteries which underwent angioplasty, new or progressive lesions occurred as commonly proximal to the ptca site (7/14, 50%) as distal (6/13, 46%). new or progressive lesions occurred in 29% of patients with concomitant restenosis, and 40% of those without restenosis (chi-square n.s.). no clinical, angiographic, or procedural factors distinguished patients with new and progressive lesions in target vessels from those without these lesions in target vessels. patients with progressive lesions anywhere in the coronary tree were more likely to have had a shorter duration of anginal symptoms before angioplasty and a family history of coronary disease when compared with patients without progressive atherosclerosis. in conclusion, new and progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site occur after the procedure but appear unrelated to the restenosis process or traumatic injury by angioplasty instrumentation.
short-term memory and sentence comprehension. an investigation of a patient with crossed aphasia. the relationship between short-term memory impairment and sentence comprehension is explored in a right-handed patient with a focal temporoparietal lesion of the right hemisphere. the general clinical profile, as well as characteristics of the patient's immediate memory for word lists, suggests the occurrence of a 'mirror image' crossed aphasia. detailed analysis of the patient's ability to repeat and to comprehend sentences, however, indicates some important differences between this case and previously reported patients with short-term memory impairment. it is suggested that these differences, which may be related to an unusual pattern of neuroanatomical organization of cognitive functions, involve symptom dissociations with implications for models of normal language/memory interactions.
gross motor patterns in children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia. rolling, sitting, and crawling patterns were motoscopically analyzed in 72 children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia; the relation between these patterns and the severity of the locomotive disability was studied. in rolling, trunk rotation and elbow support were difficult for the most severely diplegic children. when sitting, most patients had a between-heel sitting pattern in which the thighs were adducted and the knees were flexed. when crawling, the reciprocal thigh movements were insufficient and accompanied by lateral bending of the trunk in many patients. in the more impaired patients, the thighs supported the weight in flexion and did not move reciprocally. creeping on the elbows without reciprocal leg movements was demonstrated in the most severely affected children after 2 years of age.
4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide purging of breast cancer from the mononuclear cell fraction of bone marrow in patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous marrow support: a phase i trial. we designed an ex vivo bone marrow treatment for breast cancer patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow support (abms), using 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-hc), an active derivative of cyclophosphamide with known activity against breast cancer. this phase i bone marrow purging trial used ficoll-separated mononuclear cells (mnc) (devoid of granulocytes and rbcs), as opposed to the buffy coat. twenty-five patients with metastatic breast cancer were studied. patients received three cycles of the adriamycin (doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh), fluorouracil, and methotrexate (duke afm) regimen, followed by marrow harvest. an mnc fraction of marrow was prepared and treated with 4-hc in concentrations of 20 micrograms/ml (four patients), 40 micrograms/ml (four patients), 60 micrograms/ml (nine patients), or 80 micrograms/ml (eight patients) and cryopreserved. patients then received high-dose systemic cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and carmustine, followed by infusion of the purged marrow. the study end point was marrow engraftment, defined as wbc count greater than 1,000 cells per microliter. at the first three dose levels (20, 40, and 60 micrograms/ml 4-hc), there was no significant delay in time to engraftment (19, 20, and 23 days, respectively) compared with the unpurged historical controls (17 days). at 80 micrograms/ml, engraftment was significantly delayed compared with the lower concentrations (p = .027), and further escalation of 4-hc was not attempted. a significant correlation was observed between the time of leukocyte engraftment and the 4-hc concentration (p = .017). with a methylcellulose-based tissue culture assay, we demonstrated a statistically significant correlation between the colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage (cfu-gm) content in the purged marrow and the days to engraftment. ninety-five percent of patients responded clinically to the entire program, 55% of them completely. longer follow-up is required to assess the ultimate benefit of intensive therapy on long-term survival.
use of pulmonary artery catheters in patients with acute myocardial infarction. analysis of experience in 5,841 patients in the sprint registry. sprint study group this study analyzes the use of pac in a registry comprising 5,841 hospitalized patients with ami. a total of 371 patients received pac. in-hospital mortality was higher in patients with chf who received pac, while there was no difference in patients with cardiogenic shock or persistent hypotension. mortality in patients receiving pac was higher irrespective of the presence or absence of "pump failure." a separate analysis of discharge summaries of 364 patients with chf showed that pac was used more frequently in sicker patients and that when severity of chf was assessed, no difference in mortality was found in patients with mild or moderate chf. we conclude that while a higher in-hospital mortality is found in patients receiving pac, this excess is likely related to difference in severity of chf, which had not been assessed in every individual. it is unlikely that pac increases mortality.
contingent negative variation in migraine. the contingent negative variation (cnv) is an event-related slow potential. it was recorded in healthy volunteers (n = 8) and in patients suffering from migraine without (n = 12) or with (n = 5) aura, during one (cnv1) and three second (cnv3) foreperiods in a forewarned reaction time task. cnv1 was recorded at the vertex while cnv3 was recorded at multiple electrode sites to assess topographical differences. seven out of twelve migraine patients without aura had increased cnv1 amplitudes. cnv3 amplitudes were increased as well, but only at electrode positions c3 and c4 and not at fz. cnv3, which allows for analysis of both an early and a late cnv component, could improve the discrimination of migraine without aura beyond that of cnv1. in migraine with aura all cnv parameters were at control levels, confirming previous results. the data obtained are discussed in terms of arousal, activation and stress and the "biobehavioral model of migraine" (welch, 1986).
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer. the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years (mean, 41 years) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 (il-2) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy. death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients, sepsis in four patients, acute myocardial infarction in one patient, and myocarditis in one patient. transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing. noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients: the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one. although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon (1.5% in 652 consecutive patients), the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists, and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted.
hepatic cyst associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome. a solitary hepatic cyst, associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome, is described. to our knowledge, this association has not been previously reported. a developmental anomaly or hamartomatous nature of this lesion is suggested. knowledge of this association may be helpful in the clinical diagnosis of this benign entity.
the management of mid-face fractures with intracranial injury. recent advances have radically changed the management of facial fractures. ct scanning, extensive exposure, and rigid plate fixation in the setting of the trauma center have permitted early operation with improved results. a subset of patients with facial fractures will also have intracranial injuries (ici). we sought to identify parameters associated with an increased risk for ici. we also sought to examine the safety and limits of early craniofacial repair in patients with intracranial injuries. of 114 mid-face fractures treated over a 1-year period, 43 (38%) had a concomitant ici. the majority, 36 (84%), were from motor vehicle accidents (mva). frontal sinus and orbitoethmoid fractures were at the highest risk for ici, although orbitozygomatic fractures caused by mvas also had a surprisingly high incidence of ici. our results show that early craniofacial repair can be performed safely with appropriate general surgical and neurosurgical support.
endoscopic and radiographic evaluation of the murine colon. endoscopic and radiographic techniques have not been widely applicable in the evaluation of chemically induced murine colon cancer. the authors investigated methods of cleansing the rat colon and refined endoscopic and radiographic techniques. they compared total colonoscopy (tc) and air-contrast (acbe) and single-contrast barium enema (scbe) findings with those obtained at necropsy in rats with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (dmh)-induced colon cancer. gastrograffin enemas with bisacodyl suppositiories showed complete evacuation of solid feces. sprague-dawley rats treated with dmh had their colons cleansed and then underwent tc (5.0-mm olympus bronchoscope) and either scbe or acbe. colonoscopy and acbe were equally sensitive (81.5% and 76.3%, respectively), although scbe was significantly insensitive in identifying lesions (p less than 0.001). this study demonstrates that: (1) mechanical cleansing of the rat colon is feasible, (2) tc and barium radiology can be done routinely after mechanical cleansing, and (3) tc and double-contrast be are sensitive in identifying colon lesions. these techniques will provide a means for manipulation of murine tumors and in vivo surveillance.
cytomegalovirus neuropathy in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: a clinical and pathological study. we have observed typical cytomegalovirus cytopathology associated with multifocal inflammatory and necrotic lesions of peripheral nerve in biopsy specimens from 4 patients who developed a rapidly progressive, multifocal neuropathy late in the course of human immunodeficiency virus infection. the inflammatory infiltrates, which contained numerous polymorphonuclear cells, were associated with mixed, axonal, and demyelinative lesions of nerve fibers. one of these patients improved on treatment with dhpg (9-[2-hydroxy-l(hydroxymethyl) ethoxymethyl] guanine) and remains stable after 18 months. the other 3 died soon after the onset of the neuropathy. in another patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, who developed a severe, predominantly motor neuropathy of the lower limbs, the nerve biopsy did not reveal cytomegalovirus inclusions, but the neurological deficit improved on treatment with dhpg. the patient died from cachexia 2 months later; numerous cytomegalovirus lesions were found in the spinal cord at the time of postmortem examination. the multifocal necrotic endoneurial nerve lesions with polymorphonuclear cell infiltration we describe may help identify cytomegalovirus neuropathy when characteristic inclusions are not present in the biopsy specimen.
efficacy of thrombolysis in infrainguinal bypass grafts. the initial outcome of a consecutive series of 43 intra-arterial urokinase infusions for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts in 37 patients was analyzed. there was an 88% (38/43) technical success rate (complete clot lysis) and a 74% (32/43) clinical success rate. complications occurred in 10 patients (23%) and were related to bleeding in four patients (9%). patient age, graft age, location, material, and the duration of occlusion did not significantly influence the initial outcome, although there was a trend toward a higher bleeding complication rate among grafts less than or equal to 1 month of age at the time of thrombolysis. a second group of 43 infrainguinal grafts successfully recanalized using regional infusions of thrombolytic agents were followed for long-term patency. this group included 32 grafts successfully treated with urokinase and 11 grafts recanalized with streptokinase. by life-table analysis there was a 55.6% 1-year patency, which fell to 42.4% at 4 years. vein grafts had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than prosthetic grafts (69.3% versus 28.6% at 30 months). grafts with flow-limiting lesions identified and corrected by angioplasty or surgery also had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than those without such lesions (79.0% versus 9.8% at 2 years). based on the results of our study compared with a survey of long-term results following secondary surgical procedures for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts, thrombolysis can be recommended in several circumstances. thrombolysis is indicated for thrombosed vein grafts or when thrombus is present in distal runoff vessels. thrombosed prosthetic grafts should be replaced by autogenous vein grafts whenever possible.
pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulates the growth of rat pancreatic carcinoma cells. pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor was examined for growth-promoting activity on five cell lines using standard cell culture techniques. one cell line, ar4-2j, derived from a rat pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma, responded with significantly increased incorporation of [3h]thymidine and colony formation. pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulated the incorporation of [3h]thymidine in liquid culture; the maximal increase was 61 +/- 10% above control (p less than 0.001) and was seen at a concentration of 10(-9) mol/l. using a soft agarose clonogenic assay, pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor also consistently stimulated (3 assays) colony formation: the peak activity occurred at a concentration of 10(-10) mol/l which caused a 150 +/- 55% (mean +/- se, p less than 0.05) increase above control. aprotinin had no effect on the growth of ar4-2j cells and pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor did not bind to the epidermal growth factor receptor. ar4-2j cells were shown to produce pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor. the study raises the possibility that pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor provides autocrine stimulation of tumor cell growth.
characterization of a rat pancreatic secretory protein associated with pancreatitis. a new protein was purified from the pancreatic juice of rats with acute pancreatitis. that protein, not detectable in control animals, was called "pancreatitis-associated protein." it was first observed 6 hours after induction of experimental pancreatitis with taurocholate or cerulein, reached maximal levels of 45 micrograms/mg protein in zymogen granules and 1.8 micrograms/mg protein in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase (48 hours), and disappeared during recovery (day 5). it was never detected in spleen, liver, kidney, heart, or lung. the detection limit of the assay system was 12 ng/mg protein, so that pancreatitis-associated protein levels increased at least 100-fold in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase. the molecular weight (12,000) and isoelectric point (8.2) were determined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. subcellular fractionation and immunoelectron microscopy showed that the protein was synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum and stored in zymogen granules before being secreted, similar to other pancreatic secretory proteins. immunoblotting and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the same protein was synthesized upon induction of pancreatitis by cerulein infusion, by retrograde injection of bile acids, or pancreatitis induced by pancreatic surgery. the pancreatitis-associated protein is therefore an acute-phase protein that differs from other proteins of that family because of its exocrine nature.
postoperative adhesion development after operative laparoscopy: evaluation at early second-look procedures. operative laparoscopy study group. to assess the issue of the frequency and severity of adhesion reformation and de novo adhesion formation after operative laparoscopy, this multicenter collaborative report of early second-look procedures after operative laparoscopy was initiated. sixty-eight subjects underwent operative laparoscopic procedures including adhesiolysis, followed by a second operative procedure within 90 days. the total mean adhesion score decreased from 11.4 +/- 0.7 at the initial operative procedure to 5.5 +/- 0.4 at the second-look procedure, a decrease of 52%. at the time of the second-look procedure, 66 of 68 women (97.1%) had pelvic adhesions. adhesion reformation occurred in 66 of 68 women and at 230 of 351 sites (66%) at which adhesions were lysed. despite this high incidence of adhesion reformation, de novo adhesion formation after operative laparoscopy occurred in only 8 of 68 women (12%) and at 11 of 47 available sites in these 8 women. we conclude that adhesion reformation is a frequent occurrence after operative laparoscopy; however de novo adhesion formation appears to occur much less frequently.
autologous implant of peritoneal mesothelium in rabbits and man. with the purpose of studying peritoneal physiology, original biopsy methods were devised and human and rabbit peritoneal mesothelial cells cultured and characterized. it was then decided to verify whether these cells could be implanted autologously during peritoneal dialysis in cases of acute loss of mesothelial surface. staphylococcal peritonitis was induced in 12 rabbits and after 4 days of antibiotics, 6 of them were autoimplanted with cultured mesothelial cells, previously marked in 3 cases with thymidine (h3tdr). implanted rabbits sacrificed after 3 and 6 days showed taking of the new mesothelial cells both by direct morphological observation and by autoradiography. four uremic capd patients recovering from severe peritonitis were implanted with 300 million of their own peritoneal mesothelial cells, previously cultured and frozen. morphological signs of taking were evident by laparoscopy and from peritoneal biopsies performed 3 and 6 days after implant. the fact that such implants are possible may have interesting applications in medicine and surgery.
learning a unimanual motor skill by partial commissurotomy patients. a series of motor tests on four chinese partial commissurotomy patients is reported. the single-stage commissurotomy in all four patients included the anterior commissures and two-thirds or four-fifths section of the corpus callosum with sparing of the splenium. there was no demonstrable ability to transfer hand posture in these patients. this was the major evidence for functional deconnexion. a newly learned task of one-hand knotting revealed right hand impairment in all four patients. there was no dyspraxia in the right hand for over-learned object-handling tasks in these patients. it is suggested that there might be right hemisphere specialisation for the initial acquisition of unimanual object-handling skills and that the spared callosal fibres in the splenium alone are insufficient to mediate task control under these conditions. this is supported by the finding that one of these patients, who was the only one who had a right parietal lesion, was unable to perform the newly learned task with either hand.
quantitative structural analysis of peripheral airways and arteries in sudden fatal asthma. the peripheral airways and the adjacent muscular pulmonary arteries were studied by morphometric methods in the autopsy lungs of six asthmatic subjects who died suddenly during an asthma attack, and they were compared with those of six control subjects who died of other causes and had no history of respiratory diseases. bronchioles of asthmatic subjects had an increased amount of lumen occlusion (p less than 0.01), smooth muscle thickness (p less than 0.001), and inflammatory infiltrate (p less than 0.001), and both mononuclear cells and eosinophils contributed to this increased inflammation. the muscular pulmonary arteries adjacent to occluded and inflamed bronchioles did not have the morphologic features of chronic hypoxia, as shown by the normal medial and intimal thickness, but they had an important inflammatory process in their walls that was particularly marked at sites adjacent to airways. although the functional significance of these findings is unknown, they may be responsible in part for the gas exchange abnormalities observed in acute severe asthma.
unfading acral microlivedo. a discrete marker of thrombotic skin disease associated with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. small erythematous or cyanotic lesions on the hands and feet of four patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are described. these discrete lesions outline capillaries and do not disappear when pressure is applied. the histologic features are identical to those described in skin thrombotic syndrome associated with antiphospholipid antibodies, that is, microthrombi in dermal vessels without inflammation. in addition to indicating antiphospholipid antibodies in apparently healthy patients, this sign could be a marker of risk for large-vessel thrombosis.
levamisole and 5-fluorouracil therapy for resected colon cancer: a new indication. objective: to evaluate the benefits and risks of postoperative treatment with levamisole plus 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) in patients with colon cancer. design: computerized searches of medline and cancerlit were performed, and the reference list of each retrieved article was checked. only randomized trials of therapy with levamisole alone or combined with 5-fu for colon cancer without distant metastases were included. the studies were then evaluated with the use of four criteria. results: we reviewed six randomized trials, of which three satisfied our criteria. two studies demonstrated a significant improvement in the survival rate with levamisole plus 5-fu among patients with colon cancer and pathologically confirmed metastases to adjacent lymph nodes (dukes' stage c). a subgroup analysis in another study demonstrated a similar benefit. the toxic effects of the drugs were generally mild. the three other studies showed no difference in survival rates between the treatment groups; however, the samples were too small to detect a clinically or statistically important difference. conclusions: because many patients with colon cancer will suffer a relapse we recommend that they be offered the opportunity to participate in clinical trials of adjuvant therapy. for those with stage c disease not entering a clinical trial levamisole plus 5-fu is appropriate adjuvant therapy.
concordance for dyslipidemic hypertension in male twins. sixty cases of dyslipidemic hypertension were identified in the 1028 middle-aged, white, male twin participants in the first examination of the national heart, lung, and blood institute twin study (1969 to 1973). the prevalence of dyslipidemic hypertension was similar by zygosity but proband concordance was three times greater in monozygotic than dizygotic twins (0.44 [seven concordant and 18 discordant pairs] vs 0.14 [two concordant and 24 discordant pairs]), suggesting a genetic effect on the condition. low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level was the most common lipid abnormality in concordant pairs. mortality from ischemic heart disease was significantly higher in individuals with dyslipidemic hypertension. obesity and glucose intolerance were closely associated with the syndrome. moreover, within the 18 discordant monozygotic twin pairs, the twins with dyslipidemic hypertension had gained significantly more weight as adults and were significantly heavier than their unaffected cotwins. thus, although genetic factors may influence development of dyslipidemic hypertension, nongenetic, potentially modifiable aspects of obesity are also closely related to expression of this clinically important syndrome.
circulating heart-reactive antibodies in patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy [corrected and republished with original paging, article originally printed in j am coll cardiol 1990 oct;16(4):839-46] heart-reactive antibodies are commonly observed in patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy. such antibodies may be important in the pathogenesis of these disorders, yet the specific antigens recognized have not been studied systematically. this report characterizes circulating heart autoantibodies from patients with myocarditis (n = 17) or idiopathic cardiomyopathy (n = 71) and from healthy volunteers (n = 15). indirect immunofluorescence demonstrated that high titer (greater than or equal to 1:20) immunoglobulin g (igg) antibody activity occurred in 59% of the myocarditis samples, 20% of the cardiomyopathy samples and none of the normal samples. all samples were tested by western immunoblotting for igg activity against a normal human heart extract. the number of antigens recognized by each sample was enumerated and the molecular weight of each antigen estimated; the prevalence of reactivity against antigens in selected molecular weight classes was determined. there was no difference in the mean number of heart antigens recognized by serum from each group. for most weight classes, prevalence either did not differ significantly among the various groups or subgroups or was greatest among samples from healthy volunteers. prevalence of reactivity with 190 to 199 kilodalton (kd) antigens was greatest (p less than 0.05) among low titer serum samples from patients with myocarditis. high titer cardiomyopathy serum differed from normal serum by an increased (p less than 0.05) prevalence of antibodies to 40 to 49 and 100 to 109 kd antigens. these results suggest that western immunostaining may ultimately contribute substantively to identifying patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy.
pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease: an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic study. this study was carried out to assess pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatograms of 50 patients with gall stone disease were analysed and the results compared with those obtained in 33 patients investigated for cholestatic jaundice who were found to have a normal biliary tree (control group). abnormal pancreatograms were obtained in 24 (48%) patients with gall stone disease and in only two (6%) in the control group; the differences were statistically significant (chi 2 = 14.3; p less than 0.001). the patients in the control group showed mild abnormalities as did those in the gall stone group. the frequency of various abnormalities were: mild 16 (32%), moderate five (10%), and severe three (6%). pancreatic duct abnormalities were more severe and occurred more frequently in patients with gall stones who had stones in the biliary tree than in patients with a normal biliary tree (postcholecystectomy patients, 55% v 25%) but the difference between the two groups just failed to be significant (chi 2 = 3.34). in conclusion, nearly half of all patients with gall stone disease have pancreatic duct abnormalities and in 16% these were severe enough to be labelled as chronic pancreatitis.
lactation following conservation surgery and radiotherapy for breast cancer. a 38-year-old woman with early stage invasive breast cancer was treated with wide excision of the tumor, axillary lymph node dissection, and breast irradiation. three years later, she gave birth to a normal baby. she attempted breast feeding and had full lactation from the untreated breast. the irradiated breast underwent only minor changes during pregnancy and postpartum but produced small amounts of colostrum and milk for 2 weeks postpartum. there are only a few reports of lactation after breast irradiation. these cases are reviewed, and possible factors affecting breast function after radiotherapy are discussed. because of scant information available regarding its safety for the infant, nursing from the irradiated breast is not recommended.
molecular biology of circulatory shock. part iii. human hepatoblastoma (hepg2) cells demonstrate two patterns of shock-induced gene expression that are independent, exclusive, and prioritized. during shock and resuscitation, parenchymal cells of solid organs are exposed to a rapidly changing microenvironment, which may include a reduced oxygen tension and an increased concentration of certain cytokines including tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-1. in vivo experiments that testedl iver biopsied from pigs undergoing cardiogenic shock and resuscitation demonstrated several patterns of gene expression. to study the independent and additive influences of hypoxia and of cytokines in vitro, human hepatoblastoma (hepg2) cells were perturbed by hypoxia/reoxygenation (h/r), by heat shock, and by the cytokines interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor alpha alone and in combination. h/r induces new patterns of protein synthesis and secretion that are indistinguishable from those induced by heat shock and independent of the acute-phase response mediated by the cytokines. the h/r (heat-shock) response has priority over and will extinguish gene expression supported by the cytokines. this previously unrecognized hierarchy of stress gene expression could well form the molecular basis of shock-related cell and organ failure.
antropyloric muscle thickness at us in infants: what is normal? the authors reviewed the ultrasonographic (us) images and medical records of 145 consecutive infants who were seen for evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract because of chronic vomiting and/or regurgitation. at us, the antropyloric muscle of each patient was measured in the midlongitudinal plane. on the basis of this measurement, the patients were divided into the following categories: group 1 (1-2 mm; 99 patients), group 2 (greater than or equal to 3 mm; 40 patients), and group 3 (2- less than 3 mm; six patients). patients in group 1 were considered to have normal antropyloric muscle thickness, those in group 2 had abnormal thickness, and those in group 3 had muscle thickness that was not definitely normal or abnormal. the final clinical diagnoses for all of the infants in the three groups confirmed the authors' initial impressions that antropyloric muscle thickness of less than 2 mm was anatomically normal, muscle measuring 3 mm or greater was abnormal and diagnostic for pyloric stenosis, and muscle from 2 to less than 3 mm was abnormal but not specifically diagnostic for pyloric stenosis. two of the six patients in group 3 eventually were diagnosed as having pyloric stenosis; thus, the authors believe that only those patients with antropyloric muscle less than 2 mm thick should be considered unequivocably normal.
central nervous system involvement in patients with facial palsy due to borrelial infection. patients with a peripheral facial palsy due to an underlying ixodes-borne borreliosis often have cerebrospinal fluid findings indicating meningeal involvement. the aim of the present study was to identify signs of cns involvement by means of brain-stem evoked response audiometry (bser) in patients with a facial palsy due to borreliosis, as well as in patients with a facial palsy of unknown aetiology. bell's palsy. abnormalities in bser were found to be significantly more common along the borrelial patients. furthermore, a reversal of these abnormalities following treatment with benzyl-penicillin was found in the majority of patients with borreliosis. the results of the present study emphasize the importance of diagnosing and treating an underlying borreliosis in patients with a peripheral facial palsy.
push-enteroscopy for diagnosis of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. push-enteroscopy using a disinfected colonoscope was performed on 39 patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. our results show that: (1) a high percentage of patients (38%) have pathological lesions responsible for bleeding located in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum, which are readily detected by push-enteroscopy. (2) duodeno-jejunal arteriovenous malformations (avms) are the most common cause for bleeding, and these lesions can be conveniently cauterized through the endoscope. (3) an efficient sequence of steps for diagnosis of patients with this problem includes push-enteroscopy when the initial egd and colonoscopy are normal followed by small bowel radiography. mesenteric angiography and intraoperative enteroscopy can be reserved for patients with severe bleeding when push-enteroscopy and small bowel radiography are negative. we conclude that push-enteroscopy has an important role to play in the early assessment of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin.
effects of exercise on myocardial catecholamine content and ischemic injury in dogs with gradual coronary occlusion. the effects of exercise on catecholamine content and the extent of myocardial damage in dogs with ameroid constrictor occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery were determined. tissue samples from both the anterior and posterior walls of the left ventricle were obtained for determination of catecholamine content, and the rest of the ventricles were processed for histologic examination. when subjected to treadmill exercise for 40 days after surgery, obstructed animals performed significantly less exercise than sham-operated animals and showed significantly higher percentages of ischemia and necrosis in the left ventricle than sedentary, obstructed, sham-operated, or control dogs. levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine in the posterior wall of the left ventricle were significantly lower than in the other groups. our data show that exercise in this well-known model of chronic coronary artery stenosis produced deleterious effects on the myocardium and suggest a marked heterogeneity of catecholamine stores in the myocardium that may have important functional and electrophysiologic consequences.
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger. the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing. a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients (mean age 14 years) with the following clinical presentations: sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt) (n = 17); ventricular fibrillation (vf) (n = 7); syncope with heart disease (n = 10); nonsustained vt (n = 6); and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart (n = 15). the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm, followed by 1 to 4 (s2, s3, s4, s5) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites. of the 17 patients with sustained vt, 12 had induction of the arrhythmia (sensitivity = 71%). overall, 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt, with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols (p = 0.02). although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt, 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation. the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ. the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus, data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients, nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance, and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf.
differential effect of oncotic pressure on cerebral and extracerebral water content during cardiopulmonary bypass in rabbits. to study the effect of oncotic pressure on brain water content during cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb), 14 anesthetized new zealand white rabbits underwent 60 min of nonpulsatile cpb at normothermia. animals were grouped according to the composition of the circuit priming fluid. group 1 animals (n = 7) received a priming fluid (6.5% hydroxyethyl starch in 0.72 n nacl; 323 +/- 13 mosm/kg [mean +/- sd]) that maintained normal colloid oncotic pressure (cop) during cpb (19.0 +/- 1.5 mmhg). group 2 animals (n = 7) received a priming fluid (0.9 n nacl; 324 +/- 23 mosm/kg) that led to a hypooncotic state (cop = 6.2 +/- 1.2 mmhg). blood chemistries and hemodynamics were recorded every 15 min during cpb. animals were given additional priming fluid and sodium bicarbonate during cpb to maintain a circuit flow of 85 ml.kg-1.min-1 and arterial ph greater than 7.35. there were no significant differences between groups 1 and 2 with respect to temperature, central venous pressure, mean arterial pressure, pao2, paco2, plasma sodium concentration, or osmolality at any time during cpb, although osmolality increased in both groups. after 60 min of bypass, animals were killed and organ water contents were determined by wet/dry weight ratios. a separate group of nine similarly prepared and anesthetized animals that did not undergo cannulation or cpb also underwent measurement of plasma chemistries and tissue water contents and served as nonbypass controls (group 3). brain and kidney water contents were unaffected by oncotic pressure, whereas duodenum and skeletal muscle had significantly greater water content (p = 0.003 and p = 0.008, respectively) after hypooncotic cpb.
spectrum of hemodynamic changes in cardiac tamponade. to investigate the pathophysiology of cardiac tamponade, the hemodynamics of 77 consecutive patients with greater than 150 ml of pericardial effusion were studied. patients were classified into 3 groups based on the equilibration of intrapericardial with right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures (mm hg): group i (n = 16), intrapericardial pressure was less than right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures; group ii (n = 13), intrapericardial pressure was equilibrated with right atrial but not pulmonary arterial wedge pressures; group iii (n = 48), intrapericardial pressure was equilibrated with right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures. pericardiocentesis produced the following changes: group i--significant (p less than 0.03) decreases in intrapericardial pressure (7 +/- 2 mm hg), right atrial pressure (3 +/- 2 mm hg), pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (2 +/- 2 mm hg), and the inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure (3 +/- 4 mm hg) but no significant change in cardiac output; group ii--significant (p less than 0.02) decreases in intrapericardial pressure (11 +/- 5 mm hg), right atrial pressure (6 +/- 4 mm hg), pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (4 +/- 5 mm hg), and inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure (8 +/- 7 mm hg), and increase in cardiac output (1.1 +/- 1.2 liters/min); group iii--significant (p less than 0.001) decreases in intrapericardial pressure (16 +/- 7 mm hg), right atrial pressure (9 +/- 4 mm hg), pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (8 +/- 5 mm hg), inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure (17 +/- 11 mm hg), and increase in cardiac output (2.8 +/- 1.5 liters/min). the changes after pericardiocentesis in all parameters were significantly (p less than 0.05) greater in group iii than in groups i or ii except for the change in right atrial pressure, which was not significantly different in groups ii versus iii. the changes after pericardiocentesis indicate pericardial effusion caused the greatest abnormalities in group iii but also caused significant abnormalities of pressure and flow in group ii and of pressure alone in group i.
middle cerebral artery flow velocity waveforms in fetal hypoxaemia. in 81 small-for-gestational age fetuses (sga) colour flow imaging was used to identify the fetal middle cerebral artery for subsequent pulsed doppler studies. impedence to flow (pulsatility index; pi) was significantly lower, and mean blood velocity was significantly higher, than the respective reference ranges with gestation. fetal blood sampling by cordocentesis was performed in all sga fetuses and a significant quadratic relation was found between fetal hypoxaemia and the degree of reduction in the pi of fvws from the fetal middle cerebral artery. thus, maximum reduction in pi is reached when the fetal po2 is 2-4 sd below the normal mean for gestation. when the oxygen deficit is greater there is a tendency for the pi to rise, and this presumably reflects the development of brain oedema.
venomous snakebite in eastern ecuador. treatment outcome of 294 hospitalized victims of snakebite injuries in eastern ecuador are reported, documenting high rates of morbidity and mortality. one or more major complications occurred in 25% of patients. complications included blood loss severe enough to require transfusion (29 patients), abscess (26 patients), intracranial hemorrhage (15 patients) and major tissue loss (10 patients). sixteen patients died, yielding a mortality rate of 5.4%. death resulted from intracranial hemorrhage in 12 patients and from sequelae of hypovolemic shock in 4 patients.
pressure measurements from biliary and pancreatic segments of sphincter of oddi. comparison between patients with functional abdominal pain, biliary, or pancreatic disease. using a minimally compliant infusion system and a triple-lumen pressure recording catheter, we obtained endoscopic manometric measurements from both the common bile duct and pancreatic duct segments of the sphincter of oddi (so) in 58 patients. fifteen patients (ages 27-69) had the diagnosis of functional abdominal pain, 19 patients (ages 30-76) had partial biliary obstruction, and 24 patients (ages 15-80) had idiopathic acute recurrent pancreatitis. resting ductal pressure was similar in the common bile duct and pancreatic duct in all patient groups. in the group with functional pain, basal so pressure was similar, whether obtained from the common bile duct or pancreatic duct sphincteric segment. eight of 19 patients with partial biliary obstruction had elevated basal so pressure. five of these eight patients had elevated basal so pressure confined exclusively to the common bile duct segment of the sphincter, while three patients had elevated basal so in both segments. conversely seven of 24 patients with acute recurrent pancreatitis had an elevated basal so pressure, with five patients having pressure elevation only in the pancreatic duct segment while two patients had abnormal basal so pressure in both segments. we conclude that selective cannulation of the common bile duct and/or the pancreatic duct during manometric study of the so is necessary in order to diagnose segmental so dysfunction responsible for partial biliary obstruction or episodes of acute recurrent pancreatitis.
stomal adenocarcinoma in crohn's disease. malignant change occurring at the site of a stoma in two patients with proved crohn's disease is described. patients with ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of colonic malignancy and crohn's disease is also associated with both small and large bowel carcinoma. most previous reports of stomal carcinoma have been associated with ulcerative colitis although crohn's disease seems to carry a greater risk of associated small bowel carcinomas. this is the first report of stomal carcinoma complicating crohn's disease. epithelial dysplasia is associated with gastrointestinal carcinomas in both ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease and a dysplasia-carcinoma sequence has been suggested as the origin of these tumours. in both our patients with stomal adenocarcinoma, dysplasia was identified in adjacent tissues, which suggests a similar mechanism. malignant change should be suspected if epithelial dysplasia is discovered in a biopsy specimen from the mucosa of an ileostomy in crohn's disease, and this risk is increased if the dysplasia is of a high grade.
endosonography of peri-anal and peri-colorectal fistula and/or abscess in crohn's disease. transcolorectal endosonography (es) was performed in 36 patients with crohn's disease suspected clinically to have a fistula or abscess. a hypoechoic or anechoic duct-like lesion immediately adjacent to the anorectal lumen compatible with a fistula was found in 32 patients. a communication between the fistulous tract and adjacent structures such as the skin, anal canal, or vagina was detected in all 32 patients. an anechoic cavity adjacent to or communicating with the fistula was visualized in 29 of the 36 patients. a fistula was visualized in the remaining seven patients with no evidence of an abscess. this anechoic cavity compatible with an abscess was surgically confirmed in 14 of 17 patients. we judged the extent and configuration of the abnormalities to be more clearly visualized by es when results were compared with fistulography in five patients. there were no es complications, and we conclude that es is the preferred diagnostic procedure in patients with peri-rectal pathology because of the low risk of bacterial dissemination and low incidence of patient discomfort. utilizing es after non-surgical treatment was successful in 19 patients for documentation of the response to therapy.
botulinum treatment of childhood strabismus. four hundred thirteen children ranging in age from 2 months to 12 years were treated for strabismus by botulinum injection of extraocular muscles. an average of 1.7 injections per patient was given. follow-up at an average of 26 months after the last injection (minimum, 6 months) was available on 362 children (88%). the frequency of correction of 10 prism diopters (pd) or less in various groups of strabismus cases was: all 362 cases, 61%; all esotropia, 66%; infantile esotropia, 65%; and exotropia, 45%. smaller deviations (10-20 pd) were more frequently corrected (73%) than were larger deviations (20-110 pd, 54%). the frequency of correction to 10 pd or less of previously operated cases was not different from that of unoperated cases. there was no globe perforation, amblyopia, or visual loss produced by the injection treatment in this series.
association of escherichia coli hep-2 adherence patterns with type and duration of diarrhoea. 373 (59%) out of 636 faecal specimens obtained during the first 2 years of life of 72 mexican children yielded adherent escherichia coli (hep-2 cells). strains with localised adherence were significantly associated with acute non-bloody diarrhoea, whereas strains with aggregative adherence were significantly associated with persistent diarrhoea. half the strains with localised adherence were not enteropathogenic e coli serotypes nor did they hybridise with an enteropathogenic e coli adherence factor dna probe. all strains with localised adherence gave a positive fluorescent actin staining (fas) assay, irrespective of serotype. one-third of children colonised by aggregative strains had bloody diarrhoea. isolation of strains with diffuse adherence was not related to type or duration of diarrhoea but was generally associated with isolation of another pathogenic organism.
atonic pupil: an unusual complication of cataract surgery. eight cases of atonic pupil, an unusual complication following cataract surgery, are presented. six of the eyes involved had intracapsular cataract extraction and anterior chamber intraocular lens implantation; one case underwent extracapsular cataract extraction with a posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation; the other had an extracapsular procedure with no implant. the etiology is unknown, but we believe the most likely one is that the sodium hyaluronate used in all these patients caused a temporary reduction of the iris blood supply by mechanical factors or by a vasoconstriction induced by some toxicity of the material that produced a lesion on the iris sphincter.
enantiomers of oxybutynin: in vitro pharmacological characterization at m1, m2 and m3 muscarinic receptors and in vivo effects on urinary bladder contraction, mydriasis and salivary secretion in guinea pigs. the major side effects of racemic oxybutynin (oxy), which is used in the treatment of urinary incontinence are dry mouth (xerostomia) and blurred vision (mydriasis). highly purified enantiomers of oxy [(r)oxy, (s)oxy] were compared with the racemate both in vitro in functional studies and in vivo in guinea pigs to evaluate their pharmacological action relative to their adverse effects. the affinity of (r)oxy and (s)oxy for different muscarinic receptor subtypes was determined using field stimulated rabbit vas deferens (m1) and guinea pig atria (m2) or bladder (m3) strips. stereoselective antimuscarinic effects [(r)oxy greater than or equal to (r/s) oxy much greater than (s)oxy] were evident at all three receptor subtypes; the isomeric ratio [(s)oxy/(r)oxy] ranged from 12 to 88. both (r)oxy and (r/s)oxy were slightly more selective (2-4-fold, p less than .01) for m1 and m3 relative to m2 muscarinic receptors. stereoselectivity was also evident in vivo for volume-induced urinary bladder contractions as measured by cystometrogram parameters [(s)oxy/(r)oxy approximately 21], mydriasis [(s)oxy/(r)oxy approximately 136] and salivary gland secretory responses [(s)oxy/(r)oxy approximately 30]. the absolute potencies of (r)oxy or (r/s)oxy for mydriasis and salivation were similar to those for inhibition of intravesical bladder pressure. also, (r)oxy and (r/s)oxy equipotently antagonized cholinergic-mediated cns effects in mice. collectively, the data suggest that the activity of (r/s)oxy resides predominantly in the (r)-enantiomer. however, it appears that (r)oxy may offer no significant pharmacological advantage over (r/s)oxy in terms of its principal therapeutic and side effect profile.
spinal epidural abscess: an unusual complication of a duodenal ulcer. a 50-year-old man had several months of progressively worse low-back pain associated with constitutional symptoms and a history of retroperitoneal tumor and bleeding duodenal ulcer. initial evaluation suggested a lumbar spine tumor, but myelography confirmed the presence of an epidural abscess. further evaluation revealed a duodeno-spinal fistula at the site of the previous duodenal ulcer, which proved to be the cause of the abscess.
cytomegalovirus colitis in aids: presentation in 44 patients and a review of the literature. as part of a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of ganciclovir in cytomegalovirus (cmv) colitis, the clinical characteristics of 44 patients enrolled at one center were analyzed in detail. all were homosexual men who had cmv on colonic biopsy. cmv colitis was the index diagnosis for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) in 11 (25%) of the 44 patients. all had diarrhea, but it was intermittent in 13 patients (30%). bleeding was uncommon, but 35 patients (80%) were febrile (median temperature of 38.9 degrees c). weight loss was reported by 39 patients (89%), among whom the median loss was 6.8 kg. endoscopy revealed normal colonic mucosa but cmv on biopsy in 11 patients (25%). colonoscopic biopsies positive for cmv were found only in the cecum in 7 (39%) of 18 patients. most patients (54%) had received zidovudine before the diagnosis of cmv colitis. the median time to the development of cmv colitis after the diagnosis of aids was 16 months in those patients who had received zidovudine and 3 months in those who had not (p less than 0.02). we conclude that cmv colitis can present early in aids and often with such nonspecific signs as fever, intermittent diarrhea, weight loss, and hematochezia. importantly, it can appear normal on colonoscopy and occurs frequently only in the right colon, necessitating full colonoscopy and multiple biopsies for accurate diagnosis.
metastatic tumors of the umbilicus: a review 1830-1989. umbilical metastases from known and unknown primary cancers are rare. the eponym "sister mary joseph's nodule" has been used by generations of physicians. the first reports of this clinical sign were from walshe in 1846. a review of the literature revealed 265 cases from then until 1989. only 85 cases of umbilical metastasis from unknown primary tumors were found. this review should help us to focus on the common and uncommon primary sites in the diagnosis of patients with this finding. a single case report and the work-up for the hidden primary tumor are described.
effects of indomethacin on hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia. a patient had liver cirrhosis associated with marked hypoxemia. with administration of indomethacin (75 mg/day for six days), pao2 was elevated up to 50 mm hg from 44 mm hg. at that time, dynamic pulmonary perfusion imaging revealed a plateau time course curve of maa uptake in the lungs, as compared with findings obtained during the state of severe hypoxemia without indomethacin. these observations suggest that part of hepatogenic pulmonary angiodysplasia is a functional vasodilatation that is presumably modulated by vasoactive substances, such as prostaglandins and/or other eicosanoids.
ring neutrophils in plasma cell dyscrasia. sporadic reports in the medical literature concern the significant incidence of neutrophils with ring-shaped nuclei in myeloproliferative disorders. we report our first encounter with ring neutrophils in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. a significant incidence of ring neutrophils was observed in all of 20 patients with multiple myeloma and in nine of 10 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. the mean percent of ring neutrophils was 9.5% (range, 1.0% to 28.0%) in patients with multiple myeloma, which was significantly greater than in those with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or in healthy controls. in multiple myeloma, the incidence of ring neutrophils in the pretreatment phase was greater than that in the remission phase. a great deal of overlap was noted between multiple myeloma in the remission phase and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. the incidence of ring neutrophils seemed to vary according to disease stage. ring neutrophils may reflect abnormal granulopoiesis in plasma cell dyscrasias.
comparative studies of du-pan-2, carcinoembryonic antigen, and ca19-9 in the serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases: evaluation of the influence of obstructive jaundice. the levels of du-pan-2 antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, and ca19-9 in serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases were measured. the sensitivities (true positive) of du-pan-2 in serum to pancreatic carcinoma (64%) and to biliary tract carcinoma (62%) were similar to those of ca19-9 in serum (69% and 72%, respectively). nine of 18 (50%) patients with ca19-9-negative pancreatic carcinoma tested positive for du-pan-2. the sensitivities of cea to pancreatic carcinoma (56%) and to biliary tract carcinoma (52%) were lowest. the measurement of these antigens in bile seemed to be of little diagnostic value in differentiating between malignant and benign diseases. false positives of these three assays occurred frequently in patients with benign pancreatic or biliary tract disease coupled with obstructive jaundice. after percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage, serum du-pan-2 and ca19-9 levels returned to normal ranges in patients with benign diseases, but not in patients with carcinoma of the pancreas or of the biliary tract. serum ca19-9 and du-pan-2 antigens are useful tumor markers for pancreatic and biliary tract carcinomas. longitudinal assays of these antigens may be useful for the differential diagnosis of patients with obstructive jaundice.
ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia: molecular analysis of abl insertion into m-bcr on chromosome 22. leukemic cells from a patient with ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) had a normal karyotype. m-bcr was rearranged and chromosome in situ hybridization showed an abl insertion between 5' and 3' m-bcr on an apparently normal chromosome 22. the association of 5' bcr and 3' abl at the 5' junction of the chromosome 9 insert was typical of that found for the bcr-abl fusion gene in other patients with the standard t(9;22) and cml. with an m-bcr-3' probe, we cloned and characterized a 3' junction fragment. field inversion gel electrophoresis and chromosome in situ hybridization studies using a probe isolated from genomic dna 5' of the junction showed that 3' m-bcr was joined to a region of chromosome 9q34 rich in repetitive sequences and lying some distance 3' of abl. the chromosome 9 insert was at least 329 kilobases long and included 3' abl and a larger portion of chromosome 9q34. our results allowed us to exclude transposon- or retroviral-mediated insertion of abl into chromosome 22. instead, we favored a two-translocation model in which a second translocation reconstituted a standard t(9;22)(q34;q11) but left the chromosome 9 insert, including 3' abl, in chromosome 22.
immunoreactivity and receptor expression of insulinlike growth factor i and insulin in human adrenal tumors. an immunohistochemical study of 94 cases. using immunoperoxidase methods, 94 human adrenal tumors were examined for evidence of immunoreactivity and receptor expression of insulinlike growth factor i (igf-i) and insulin. the frequency of igf-i in adrenocortical carcinomas was significantly higher than that in adenomas of the adrenal glands. the adrenocortical carcinomas showed strong intensity of staining for igf-i, igf-i receptors, and insulin receptors. a significant correlation between immunoreactivity and receptor expression of both igf-i and insulin was found only in the adrenocortical carcinomas. the adrenocortical adenomas with cushing's syndrome and pheochromocytomas, more than adrenocortical adenomas with conn's syndrome, also stained strongly for insulin receptors. thus the igf-i and insulin probably play a role in the growth of adrenocortical carcinoma tissues, possibly through autocrine mechanisms. the expression of insulin receptors in adrenocortical adenomas in the presence of cushing's syndrome and pheochromocytomas may be associated with functions.
the erythrocyte sedimentation rate in congestive heart failure. background and methods. physicians have long believed that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is low in patients with congestive heart failure, but this concept is based on a misinterpretation of the results in a single report published in 1936. to reevaluate this concept in the modern era, we measured the sedimentation rate in 242 patients who were referred for treatment of chronic heart failure. results. the sedimentation rate was low (less than 5 mm per hour) in only 24 patients (10 percent) but was increased (above 25 mm per hour) in 50 percent. patients with low or normal sedimentation rates (less than or equal to 25 mm per hour) had more severe hemodynamic abnormalities than patients with elevated rates: lower cardiac index (mean +/- sem, 1.7 +/- 0.1 vs. 2.0 +/- 0.1 liters per minute per square meter of body-surface area) and higher mean right atrial pressure (mean +/- sem, 12 +/- 1 vs. 9 +/- 1 mm hg) (both p less than 0.0001). new york heart association functional class iv symptoms were present in 66 percent of the patients with a low or normal sedimentation rate, as compared with 42 percent of those with elevated rates (p less than 0.0001). after one to three months of therapy, patients whose sedimentation rates decreased showed little hemodynamic or clinical response to treatment, whereas both cardiac performance and functional status improved in patients whose rates increased (p less than 0.02 for the comparison between groups). the sedimentation rate was correlated with the plasma fibrinogen level (r = 0.64, p = 0.0025), and changes in the sedimentation rate during treatment were correlated inversely with changes in mean right atrial pressure (r = -0.57, p = 0.0002). during long-term follow-up, patients with low or normal sedimentation rates had a worse one-year survival than patients with elevated rates (41 vs. 66 percent, p = 0.01). conclusions. these data indicate that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is correlated with the severity of illness in patients with chronic heart failure. because of its lack of discriminatory power, however, the test is of limited value in the clinical management of this disorder.
effect of dipyridamole (persantin) on blood flow and patency of aortocoronary vein bypass grafts. the effect of dipyridamole was investigated in 360 patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery. they were randomly allocated to receive dipyridamole (100 mg orally q.i.d. for 2 days preoperatively, 5 mg/kg body weight/24 h i.v. peroperatively and 100 mg orally q.i.d. for 1 year postoperatively) or placebo. withdrawn from the study were 48 patients on dipyridamole and 57 on placebo. cardiovascular and/or cerebrovascular events or need for anticoagulant treatment were the reasons for withdrawal in 22 (13%) of the dipyridamole, and 34 (18%) of the placebo group. logistic regression analysis of risk factors influencing graft patency showed significant relation to peroperatively measured coronary blood flow. a positive trend of treatment was observed (p = 0.08). vein graft blood flow measured during bypass surgery (245 patients) was significantly greater in the dipyridamole group (p less than 0.01). the occlusion rate was lower in vessels with peroperative blood flow greater than 30 ml/min (vein-marginal p less than 0.01, vein-dexter p less than 0.05, vein-diagonal 0.05 less than p less than 0.1). dipyridamole increases coronary blood flow and graft patency following coronary bypass surgery.
jejunal immunoglobulin and antigliadin antibody secretion in adult coeliac disease. we compared the local intestinal immunoglobulin (ig) secretion in six adult patients with coeliac disease and nine control subjects by perfusion of a small bowel segment under an occluding balloon and analysis of the perfusion fluid for the content of ig and secretory component. the results were compared to the number of ig-containing plasma cells in the test segment. there was, respectively, a two-fold and a fivefold increase in jejunal secretion rates of iga (both monomeric and polymeric) and igm in patients with coeliac disease compared with control subjects. the high iga and igm secretion rates parallel the increase of ig-containing plasma cells in the lamina propria. in contrast, the igg plasma cell density increase was barely significant in patients with coeliac disease and did not result in a high igg secretion rate. the jejunal secretion rate of secretory component was significantly increased in patients with coeliac disease and no free dimeric iga was present in the jejunal fluid. antigliadin-iga was detected in the serum and jejunal fluid of the six patients with coeliac disease. antigliadin-iga, however, was almost entirely polymeric iga linked to secretory component in jejunal fluid, whereas 61% was dimeric iga not linked to secretory component in serum. this result, combined with a raised secretory component secretion rate with no evidence of secretory component saturation, suggests that serum and intestinal antigliadin iga might be of different origins in coeliac disease.
total knee arthroplasty in patients after patellectomy. twenty-six total knee arthroplasties (tkas) were evaluated in 22 patients who had had a patellectomy. fourteen knees (12 patients) had a primary tka, and 12 patients had a revision tka. two patients in the revision group, whose prostheses failed, were from the primary tka group. the mean follow-up time was 8.5 years in the primary tka group and 7.6 years in the revision tka group. a group of 14 control knees with patellae was randomly generated but matched for prosthesis, diagnosis, surgeon, age, and time of surgery. this group was similarly evaluated with an average follow-up time of 6.9 years. the primary tka group had seven knees that were rated as good or excellent, two as fair, and three as poor. the control group had a significantly higher average rating than the primary tka group. in this group, there were 12 good or excellent knees, three fair, and none poor. postoperative pain, flexion contracture, extension lag, and range of motion all contributed significant information to the final score, whereas other variables (walking, function, strength, and instability) did not contribute any additional information. although higher overall scores may have been expected if the patients had patellae, the results during the follow-up examination were satisfactory and justified tka in these patients. in general, however, patients without patellae may be at a higher risk for failure of the prosthesis, as seen in five patients having primary tka and another ten patients with failed tka requiring revision.
non-aids-associated kaposi's sarcoma (classical and endemic african types): treatment with low doses of recombinant interferon-alpha. in the treatment of the classical and endemic african forms of kaposi's sarcoma (ks), radiation therapy and chemotherapy have been widely used with varying degrees of success and morbidity. we here report our preliminary experiences with low doses of recombinant interferon alfa-2b (rifn alpha-2b) in the treatment of these types of ks, non-linked to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). ten consecutive patients (eight patients with classical and two with endemic ks) with a median age of 62 years were treated long-term with 5 x 10(6) units of rifn alpha-2b (introna) given subcutaneously three times weekly for at least 6 months. of the 10 patients, six presented with cutaneous disease only, and four had additional visceral involvement. after 6 months of treatment, seven of the 10 patients had a major response of the cutaneous lesions, and three patients showed stable skin diseases. of the four patients with additional visceral disease, one patient showed a complete regression of an intramyocardial tumor involving the right atrium and ventricle, whereas in the three other patients stabilization of the visceral lesions with marked symptomatic improvement occurred. on the whole, the long-term results over a median duration of 12 months (range, 7 to 30) are also satisfactory: ifn-alpha continued to control ks in all patients. the treatment was generally well tolerated; no serious side effects were observed. our preliminary data suggest that low-dose rifn alpha-2b regimens are effective in classical and endemic african ks. however, further studies are needed to establish the exact role for ifn-alpha as alternative to radiation and chemotherapy.
zinc and copper in breast cancer. a joint study in northern italy and southern france. the relationship between breast cancer and two trace elements, zinc (zn) and copper (cu), was investigated by means of an hospital based case-control study at milan (italy) and montpellier (france). variables concerning dietary intake of zn and cu (in milan) and their blood levels (both in milan and montpellier) were measured. dietary intake, evaluated through a questionnaire of the dietary history type, and blood levels of zn and cu were measured in 261 cases and 261 controls. cu blood level showed a contradictory tendency in the two samples (higher in controls in milan, higher in cases in montpellier), which tended to lessen after adjustment for related variables. no odds ratios (or) in the different quantiles, nor x2 for trend reached statistical significance. a sharp difference was evidenced on the opposite with regard to zn blood values in cases and controls. in both samples zn mean values are significantly higher in cases than in controls, and the difference remains significant in the two samples even after adjustment for related variables. the pooled or computed from the two samples, after adjustment for known risk factors and related variables, reaches in the fourth quartile a value of 9.5 (ci: 4.9-18.2). dietary intake of the two minerals (measured only in milan sample) showed no difference between cases and controls, but a stronger relationship between dietary and blood zn was evidenced in cases with respect to controls. the authors suggest that the higher zn level in cases might be related with an higher incorporation of zn in cancer cases and that the same mineral might play a possible role in tumor growth promotion.
visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception. we reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period. of these patients, 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye. eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better. of these, five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better, one had visual acuity of 20/25, one had visual acuity of 20/30, and one had visual acuity of 20/40. four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400. dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients.
single photon emission computed tomography with thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia: correlation with coronary arteriography, exercise thallium imaging and two-dimensional echocardiography the feasibility, safety and diagnostic accuracy of single photon emission computed tomography (spect) with thallium-201 imaging during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia were evaluated in 53 patients with and 7 without coronary artery disease proved by coronary angiography. adenosine was infused intravenously at a dose of 0.14 mg/kg body weight per min for 6 min and thallium was injected at 3 min. adenosine caused an increase in heart rate (68 +/- 12 at baseline versus 87 +/- 18 beats/min at peak effect, p less than 0.0001) but no change in blood pressure. the sensitivity and specificity were 92% (95% confidence intervals 81% to 98%) and 100% (95% confidence intervals 59% to 100%), respectively; 20 (61%) of 33 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease were also correctly identified. in 30 patients, the predictive accuracy of adenosine thallium imaging was slightly higher than that of exercise spect thallium imaging (90% versus 80%, p = ns) (95% confidence intervals 72% to 97% and 61% to 92%, respectively). in 25 patients, two-dimensional echocardiography during adenosine infusion disclosed a new wall motion abnormality in 2 (10%) of 20 patients with coronary artery disease; 80% of these patients had reversible thallium defects (p less than 0.001). side effects were mild and transient; aminophylline was used in only three patients. thus, adenosine spect thallium imaging provides a high degree of accuracy in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. the results are comparable with those of exercise spect thallium imaging. most reversible defects in the adenosine study are not associated with any transient wall motion abnormality.
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger. the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing. a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients (mean age 14 years) with the following clinical presentations: sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt) (n = 17); ventricular fibrillation (vf) (n = 7); syncope with heart disease (n = 10); nonsustained vt (n = 6); and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart (n = 15). the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm, followed by 1 to 4 (s2, s3, s4, s5) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites. of the 17 patients with sustained vt, 12 had induction of the arrhythmia (sensitivity = 71%). overall, 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt, with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols (p = 0.02). although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt, 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation. the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ. the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus, data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients, nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance, and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf.
nonsurgical treatment of histoplasma endocarditis involving a bioprosthetic valve. endocardial involvement associated with disseminated histoplasmosis has been infrequently documented, especially among patients with prosthetic valves. the therapeutic approach to these patients is also not yet clearly defined. a 54-year-old man with prosthetic valve endocarditis due to histoplasmosis was successfully treated with amphotericin b. a review of the literature suggests that the optimal form of therapy is likely a combination of surgical replacement of the involved valve and high dose amphotericin b. successful therapy with amphotericin b alone may, however, be achieved if surgery is not a viable option.
effects of common illnesses on infants' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in huascar (lima), peru. to assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake, 131 peruvian infants were observed longitudinally. home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly, and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations. mean (+/- sd) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 +/- 128 kcal/d (92.4 +/- 26.5 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 +/- 193 kcal/d (77.7 +/- 25.7 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged greater than 180 d. statistical models controlling for infant age, season of the year, and individual showed significant 5-6% decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever. there were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding, total suckling time, or amount of breast-milk energy consumed. by contrast, energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30% during diarrhea and fever, and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods.
complications of general anesthesia for nd:yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors. we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd:yag laser endobronchial tumor resection. the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed. preoperative status, anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome. twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction. longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal. cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention. variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age. perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd: yag laser resection. short-acting neuromuscular relaxants, careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation, limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd: yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors.
no confirmation of visual evoked potential diagnostic test for migraine. we have attempted to replicate the results of studies on a diagnostic test reported to have 90% sensitivity and 89-96% specificity for migraine. the technique is based on peak-to-peak measurements of fast background electroencephalographic activity during a visual evoked potential (vep) study. vep latencies and amplitudes did not differ significantly, and showed substantial overlap, between a group of eight migraine patients and ten age-matched healthy controls. we could not recognise previously described fast activity or measure it objectively by peak-to-peak measurements. we cannot confirm that measurement of fast wave activity in the vep background is useful in diagnosis of migraine.
hypothermia. safe and efficient methods of rewarming the patient. hypothermia, a relatively common problem in the winter months, can cause significant morbidity. it presents in a variety of situations and affects a wide age range. diagnosis requires a high index of suspicion, because the symptoms, which are primarily related to the central nervous system, are not distinctive. appropriate management requires accurate measurement of core body temperature. treatment is centered on rewarming the patient safely and efficiently while providing other supportive measures. care should be taken to avoid arrhythmias. simple precautions greatly reduce the risk of hypothermia.
gonadoblastoma in an anatomically normal man: a case report and literature review. gonadoblastoma, a rare gonadal neoplasm, presents most frequently in phenotypic female or phenotypically male patients with dysgenetic gonads or undescended testes. to date, only 2 cases of gonadoblastoma have been reported in anatomically normal male patients with scrotal testes. both of these patients presented with testicular masses and germ cell tumors. we report a case of a genotypically and phenotypically normal, fertile man with descended testes who on evaluation for chronic orchialgia had a gonadoblastoma unaccompanied by a germ cell neoplasm. the tumor was nonpalpable and was initially discovered on scrotal ultrasound.
hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade. a spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin. the associated persistent hyponatraemia, which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone, rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis.
lower extremity arterial disease in systemic lupus erythematosus. lupus vasculitis primarily affects microvascular circulation, and large-vessel thrombosis is a rare complication of this disease. large-vessel occlusive disease in systemic lupus erythematosus is most likely related to hypercoagulability in addition to immune complex-mediated endothelial damage. we describe the 11th and 12th patients reported to have systemic lupus erythematosus and macrovascular occlusive disease of the lower extremities. our experience and a review of the literature suggest that, while aortoiliac disease is amenable to bypass or endarterectomy, infrainguinal disease is rarely correctable surgically, and amputation becomes necessary in most of these patients.
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy. two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare, transient visual symptoms, and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered. both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision, ring scotomas, and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber. electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses. antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum. their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents. the triad of photosensitivity, ring scotomatous visual field loss, and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina.
spontaneous myocardial ischemia and the signal-averaged electrocardiogram. the effects of transient myocardial ischemia on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram were investigated in 13 patients with coronary artery disease and spontaneous angina undergoing 3-channel ambulatory electrocardiography. ischemia was seen as st elevation in 2 patients or st depression in 11; it was anterior in 5 patients, inferior in 4 and undefined in 4. signal-averaged electrocardiograms with noise levels less than or equal to 1 microv were obtained from holter tapes during 54 of 61 ischemic attacks recorded in the study group (88%), and compared with 54 tracings recorded within 60 minutes of the index attacks. baseline tracings were normal in 8 patients (62%), showed a long qrs duration in 2 (15%), and both a long qrs duration and a late potential in the remaining 3 (23%). comparison of recordings at baseline and during ischemic attacks revealed no significant changes in signal-averaged electrocardiographic parameters. absence of significant differences was also noted when analysis was performed according to the type of ischemic attacks (associated with st elevation [n = 14] or st depression [n = 40]), their location (anterior [n = 21] or inferior [n = 23]), their duration (greater than 10 minutes [n = 29] or less than or equal to 10 minutes [n = 25]), and their magnitude (greater than 2 mm [n = 18] or less than or equal to 2 mm [n = 36]). it is concluded that spontaneous transient myocardial ischemia, independent of its type, location, duration and magnitude, does not generate a substrate for late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram.
coronary vascular remodeling and myocardial fibrosis in the rat with renovascular hypertension. response to captopril. progressive myocardial fibrosis, including the accumulation of collagen within the adventitia of intramyocardial coronary arteries, is seen in the hypertrophied rat myocardium secondary to renovascular hypertension (rht) and has been held responsible for alterations in myocardial diastolic stiffness. this study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that this presumptive angiotensin-aldosterone mediated fibrosis and its functional consequences could be favorably altered by an antihypertensive oral dose (50 mg/kg/day) of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor captopril. three groups were studied: control; untreated rht for 8 weeks; treated rht, with captopril started 48 h before banding and continued for 8 weeks. interstitial collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area (morphometry), the fibrillar nature of collagen (picrosirius polarization), and the end diastolic stress-strain relation of the intact left ventricle were examined in each group. in comparison to untreated animals with rht, we found that captopril, begun prior to banding, attenuated interstitial and perivascular fibrosis and prevented hypertrophy and the rise in diastolic stiffness 8 weeks later. thus, an adverse accumulation of collagen in the interstitium and around intramyocardial coronary arteries, and its functional consequences in the rat with rht, can be prevented by captopril. other ace inhibitors may have similar salutary effects, but remain to be evaluated. the pathogenetic origin of myocardial fibrosis in rht requires further investigation, but appears to be related to the angiotensin-aldosterone system.
lymphoedema/hypercalcaemia syndrome mediated by parathyroid-hormone-related protein. a 24-year-old woman presented with a cryptogenic, hypercalcaemic syndrome with metastatic pulmonary calcification and leg and massive breast enlargement and bilateral chylous pleural effusions compatible with a generalised lymphatic abnormality. the patient's serum parathyroid hormone-related protein concentration was very high at a time when she was significantly hypercalcaemic, implying that the hypercalcaemia was mediated by this protein.
elevation of the petrous bone caused by hyperplasia of the occipital bone presenting as hemifacial spasm: diagnostic values of magnetic resonance imaging and three-dimensional computed tomographic images in a bone anomaly. a case of elevation of the petrous bone due to hyperplasia of the occipital bone presenting as hemifacial spasm is reported. a 44-year-old man sought treatment for twitching of the buccal muscles on the right side that progressed rapidly in severity within 2 weeks of the onset. the anatomical details of the petrous and occipital bones were delineated clearly by computed tomographic scans of a bone window level. details of the brain stem were shown by magnetic resonance images. the bone anomaly was displayed more realistically by three-dimensional computed tomographic reconstructions. the faithful representation of structures with these radiological studies should be mandatory, to prepare the surgical planning of such a complicated bone anomaly.
dysphagia following fundoplication: "slipped" fundoplication versus achalasia complicated by fundoplication. failure to obtain preoperative esophageal manometry in patients being considered for antireflux surgery can result in immediate persistent postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia. we describe the clinical assessment and management of a case of delayed postoperative dysphagia due to a "slipped" fundoplication, which is contrasted with three patients with immediate postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia. surgical revision was required to correct the "slipped" fundoplication, and pneumatic dilatation was successfully used in two of three cases of achalasia complicated by fundoplication. careful preoperative esophageal evaluation with manometry is essential to rule out the presence of a primary esophageal motor disorder.
was cepod right? this retrospective study found that the long-term (greater than 6 months) postoperative survival in asa 4e and 5e patients was 41% and 21% respectively, in 1986. this supports the confidential enquiry into peri-operative deaths' recommendation that life-saving surgery should not be withheld from patients who present in so serious a condition that they are unlikely to survive surgery.
cognitive deficits in children: adaptive behavior and treatment techniques. impaired cognitive functioning impedes the development of age-appropriate adaptive behavior, thus adding to the burdens of many children with epilepsy. detailed neuropsychological assessment can identify the underlying ability-related impairments that contribute to the adaptive behavior deficiencies evidenced, particularly in the home and school settings. this information can serve as the basis for a multidisciplinary treatment plan tailored to individual needs. ideally, the need for such a treatment plan should be perceived early in childhood, so that it can be developed and applied preventively. the same remedial principles also apply in older children and are here set out in detail.
symptomatic pericardial effusion in lung cancer patients: the role of fluid cytology. during the years 1975-1988, twenty lung cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion were treated conservatively at our center. echocardiography demonstrated small pericardial effusion in 2 patients, medium size effusion in 3 patients and large amount of fluid in 15 patients. fifteen patients developed cardiac tamponade; in three of these patients, this was the presenting manifestation of lung cancer. pericardiocentesis resulted in prompt, though temporary, symptomatic relief in all patients. fluid cytology demonstrated suspected malignant cells in 2 patients and malignant cells in 13 patients. based on cytology, the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma was established in six patients, small cell carcinoma in three patients, and epidermoid carcinoma in one patient. all patients were dead within 9 months from the time of diagnosis of pericardial effusion; 17 died within less than 3 months. it is concluded that pericardial effusion in lung cancer is indicative of rapid tumor progression and short survival. fluid cytology provides an immediate and accurate means of diagnosis.
occlusion of the brachial artery by thrombus dislodged from a traumatic aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery. the successful treatment of a brachial artery occlusion caused by a chronic embolizing aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery is described. in the case of embolizing axillary artery aneurysms, the best therapy is resection of the aneurysm followed by distal thromboembolectomy and vascular reconstruction by a saphenous vein segment. prosthetic material should be reserved as a second choice. in this particular case successful therapy consisted of ligation of the anterior humeral circumflex artery proximal and distal to the aneurysm, resection of the aneurysm, and transcubital thromboembolectomy.
reinforcement of incontinent stools in the treatment of encopresis. in this paper, fecal incontinence and constipation were treated in two mentally retarded individuals using a novel intervention wherein incontinent stools were first rewarded in order to increase the frequency of bowel movements. this intervention was implemented only after more traditional pediatric and behavioral treatments were unsuccessful. the reinforcement of incontinent stools procedure resulted in an increase in both the frequency and the number of continent stools for both individuals. hypotheses regarding the failure of previous treatments and the success of the current treatment are discussed as well as directions for future research.
repeat hepatic resection for primary and metastatic carcinoma of the liver. during the last 15 years, 19 patients underwent repeated hepatic resections for malignant lesions of the liver. the first hepatic resection had been performed four to 40 months earlier for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (nine patients) or hepatic metastases (ten patients), eight of which were of colorectal origin. repeat resection was an extensive hepatectomy in six, a segmentectomy in six and a local excision in seven. in one patient, three wedge resections and, finally, hepatic transplantation were subsequently performed after an initial extended right lobectomy. the operative mortality rate was 5.2 per cent. the three year actuarial survival rate was 64 per cent after the second resection.
magnetic resonance imaging of facial nerve neuromas. facial nerve neuromas are uncommon tumors often confused with other tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle. radiologically, it may be impossible to differentiate an intracanalicular facial nerve neuroma from an acoustic neuroma. we present three case reports of facial nerve neuromas arising within the internal auditory canal to show the important magnetic resonance imaging features of these tumors. one tumor extended into the cerebellopontine angle, middle cranial fossa, and middle ear. another filled the internal auditory canal and extended through the cerebellopontine angle to the brain stem. the third occurred in a patient who had neurofibromatosis as well as numerous other intracranial tumors. we feel that gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging provides the most useful information in the preoperative assessment of this disorder.
work and power in gait of stroke patients. biomechanical analysis of the work and power patterns involved in gait provides insight into the nature of gait deficits and suggests methods for improvement. the purpose of this study was to describe the work and power characteristics during gait for both limbs of hemiplegic patients, and to determine the work and power variables related to self-selected speeds of walking. the gait of 30 ambulatory adults between the ages of 47 and 79 years was studied using two-dimensional cinematography and force-plate data in a link-segment model. about 40% of the positive work required for walking was performed by the muscles of the affected side. major contributors were the ankle plantar flexors, hip flexors, and hip extensors. the results suggest interdependence between the limbs and between muscle groups of the same limb; a need for further research is indicated.
chromosome 15 uniparental disomy is not frequent in angelman syndrome. genetic imprinting has been implicated in the etiology of two clinically distinct but cytogenetically indistinguishable disorders--angelman syndrome (as) and prader-willi syndrome (pws). this hypothesis is derived from two lines of evidence. first, while the molecular extents of de novo cytogenetic deletions of chromosome 15q11q13 in as and pws patients are the same, the deletions originate from different parental chromosomes. in as, the deletion occurs in the maternally inherited chromosome 15, while in pws the deletion is found in the paternally inherited chromosome 15. the second line of evidence comes from the deletion of an abnormal parental contribution of 15q11q13 in pws patients without a cytogenetic and molecular deletion. these patients have two maternal copies and no paternal copy of 15q11q13 (maternal uniparental disomy) instead of one copy from each parent. by qualitative hybridization with chromosome 15q11q13 specific dna markers, we have now examined dna samples from 10 as patients (at least seven of which are familial cases) with no cytogenetic or molecular deletion of chromosome 15q11q13. inheritance of one maternal copy and one paternal copy of 15q11q13 was observed in each family, suggesting that paternal uniparental disomy of 15q11q13 is not responsible for expression of the as phenotype in these patients.
spindle cell carcinoma of the lung. a clinicopathologic study of three cases. two cases of monophasic spindle cell carcinomas and one case of adenosquamous carcinoma with the spindle cell component located in the lower respiratory tract are presented. in the biphasic tumor, areas of transition from carcinoma to sarcomatous spindle cells were clearly found. the two monophasic tumors and the spindle cell component of the biphasic tumor were histologically characterized by sheets of spindle cells. however, by electron microscopic and immunohistochemical study, several features of squamous epithelial differentiation were found in the spindle cell areas of all cases. keratin and vimentin were, in various degrees, coexpressed in all the cases. therefore, it is supposed that the spindle cell component displays a spectrum of phenotypes originating from squamous cell carcinoma, and monophasic spindle cell carcinoma is considered as a kind of the extreme phenotype of squamous cell carcinoma pretending mesenchymal differentiation.
il-2-pe40 prevents the development of tumors in mice injected with il-2 receptor expressing el4 transfectant tumor cells. a number of different immunotherapeutic reagents are currently being developed to target il-2r for the treatment of leukemia, graft rejection, and certain autoimmune diseases. previously, we have shown that il-2-pe40, a chimeric protein composed of human il-2 linked to the n-terminus of a truncated form of pseudomonas exotoxin (pe), could effectively kill a variety of cell lines in vitro expressing either low, intermediate, or high affinity il-2r. here, we demonstrate that il-2-pe40 can successfully retard or prevent the growth of a lethal ascites tumor or a solid tumor composed of el4j murine thymoma cells transfected with the p55 murine il-2r. the transfected line, el4j-3.4, expresses 1,000 to 3,000 high affinity il-2r. survival extension in the ascites model was achieved by initiating treatment either after 4 to 6 h or within 5 days post-tumor injection in both athymic nude and c57bl/6 mice. similarly, the growth of an aggressive s.c. solid tumor could also be inhibited. extension of survival was not achieved either by using the truncated toxin alone not attached to il-2 or by using an il-2-pe40asp553 mutant lacking a functional toxin. survival extension was not caused by il-2 activated nk or other host effector mechanisms as il-2-pe40 was unable to prevent the receptor-negative el4j parental line from forming a lethal ascites or a solid tumor. thus, il-2-pe40 is a potent, specific cytolytic reagent that may prove useful in the arsenal of anti-il-2r immunotherapeutics.
small bowel enteroscopy and intraoperative enteroscopy for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. intraoperative endoscopy (ioe) is accepted as the ultimate diagnostic procedure for completely evaluating the small bowel in patients with obscure gastrointestinal (gi) bleeding. small bowel enteroscopy (sbe) has been reported useful in the nonsurgical evaluation of the small intestine in these patients, but findings may be limited because of incomplete small bowel intubation and a lack of tip deflection. twenty-three patients underwent 25 sbe exams and subsequently had 25 ioe exams during surgical exploration for continued bleeding. patients' bleeding histories averaged 2 yr, with an average transfusion requirement of 27 units. findings on ioe were the same as with sbe in 17/22 (77%) of examinations. we conclude that sbe and ioe are comparable in depth of insertion and ability to detect small vascular ectasias. both procedures missed pathology due to limited visibility and the evanescent nature of ectasias. long-term success in abolishing bleeding with these combined techniques can be expected in 55% of these patients. sbe should precede surgery, since the finding of diffuse ectasias precludes any benefit from operative intervention.
peripheral opioid receptors mediating antinociception in inflammation. evidence for activation by enkephalin-like opioid peptides after cold water swim stress. this study utilized inhibitors of the enzymatic degradation of enkephalins to investigate the possibility that this class of opioid peptides contributes to the stress-induced antinociception seen in inflamed peripheral tissues of rats with freund's complete adjuvant-initiated unilateral hind paw inflammation. following a 1-min cold water swim stress, rats previously injected in both hind paws with vehicle showed a transient elevation of paw pressure threshold, which was much greater in inflamed than in noninflamed paws and returned to control levels within 15 min. this preferential antinociception was significantly pronounced and prolonged in rats previously injected bilaterally with a cocktail of the enkephalinase inhibitors thiorphan (0.2 mg intraplantar) and bestatin (0.2 mg intraplantar). the enhancement of stress-induced antinociception by thiorphan/bestatin was dose-dependently antagonized by tertiary naloxone (0.125-2 mg kg-1 s.c.). evidence for a peripheral site of action of enkephalin-like peptides in this model was provided by the antagonism of the actions of thiorphan/bestatin by quaternary naltrexone (10-20 mg kg-1 s.c.). systemic administration of the orally active enkephalinase inhibitor sch 34826 (5-40 mg kg-1 i.p.) was also able to dose-dependently potentiate the preferential stress-induced antinociception in a naloxone (1 mg kg-1 s.c.) reversible manner.
volvulus of the colon. the charts of all patients with colonic volvulus at the university of louisville hospitals between 1983 and 1988 were reviewed. a total of 45 patients were identified, and there were 17 with cecal volvulus and 29 with sigmoid volvulus (1 had both). two-thirds of the patients were either demented, bedridden, or used constipating drugs. initial nonoperative decompression was achieved in 26 of 29 patients with sigmoid volvulus but in only three of nine patients in which it was attempted with cecal volvulus. two of these recurred, and 16 of the 17 cecal volvulus patients underwent operation. one-third of the sigmoid volvulus patients had at least one recurrent episode on the index admission. fourteen of the 29 had an operation, and half of these patients died following surgery. fifteen sigmoid volvulus patients chosen to be treated with successive nonoperative treatment had no mortality. mortality was higher following emergent (4 of 5) than elective (2 of 9) operation for sigmoid volvulus, and one of three died after operation for a successfully decompressed first episode. mortality for nonoperative reduction of an early recurrence was zero of four patients, while operative mortality for recurrence was two of seven (all had successful preoperative deflation). there was no mortality or recurrence in four patients with cecal volvulus treated by cecopexy alone, but all three patients died in whom tube cecostomy was performed. two of nine patients died following right hemicolectomy. these data suggest that if an elective operation is to be performed for sigmoid volvulus, it should be done following one or more recurrences and that nonoperative decompression can be safely performed on successive occasions.
use of auscultation to follow patients with mitral systolic clicks and murmurs. mitral systolic clicks and murmurs together with associated symptoms constitute a major reason for cardiologic referral. although echocardiography with doppler study enables characterization of the mitral valve apparatus and quantification of regurgitation, its use has resulted in an overemphasis of the technical diagnosis of mitral valve prolapse and an undervaluation of diagnosis based on physical examination. to determine the clinical significance of an auscultatory classification of mitral systolic clicks with or without precordial systolic murmurs, 1 consultant's medical records of 291 patients with these signs were reviewed. based on initial auscultatory findings, patients were divided into: (1) single or multiple apical systolic clicks with no murmur (n = 99); (2) single or multiple apical systolic clicks and a late systolic murmur (n = 129); and (3) single or multiple apical clicks and an apical pansystolic murmur or murmur beginning in the first half of systole (n = 63). the average duration of patient follow-up was 8 years (range 1 to 30). the prognosis was excellent for patients from all 3 classes. two cardiac-related deaths occurred: 1 each from classes 1 and 2. mitral valve surgery was performed in 3 class 2 patients (2%) and in 2 class 3 patients (3%). no patients developed endocarditis during follow-up. palpitations, with varying anxiety overlay, constituted a major indication for cardiologic referral in all 3 classes. auscultatory findings were valuable to the physician for explanation and relief of patient anxiety. for patient management, use of an auscultatory classification may be preferable to the technically generated term "mitral valve prolapse.".
hemodynamic effects of diltiazem during vasoconstrictor pulmonary hypertension in sheep. calcium channel blockers have been effective as pulmonary vasodilators in patients with pulmonary hypertension. the current study therefore compared the effects of prostaglandin e1, an effective pulmonary vasodilator, with the effects of the water-soluble calcium channel blocker diltiazem during pulmonary hypertension in sheep. pulmonary hypertension was produced by continuous intravenous administration of u46619 to halothane-anesthetized sheep. prostaglandin e1 decreased pulmonary artery pressure 29%, decreased pulmonary vascular resistance (rp) 57%, and did not affect the ratio of pulmonary to systemic vascular resistance (rp/rs). diltiazem decreased pulmonary artery pressure 15%, decreased rp 50%, and did not affect rp/rs. when 0.33 ml/kg polyethylene glycol-ethanol vehicle (the vehicle used for nifedipine administration in a prior study) was administered during diltiazem infusion, pulmonary artery pressure increased 19%, rp increased 72%, and rp/rs increased 29%. these results indicate that diltiazem is an effective pulmonary vasodilator and suggest that the previously reported unfavorable results of nifedipine may have been due to the vehicle used for nifedipine administration.
menstrual function and eating behavior in female recreational weight lifters and competitive body builders. a group of 103 female weight lifters (wl) and 92 control (c) women answered a survey concerning eating behavior and attitudes (including the eating disorder inventory) and menstrual function. the incidence of menstrual dysfunction, defined as oligomenorrhea plus amenorrhea, was significantly higher for the wl (30%) than for the c (13%) not on contraceptive pills. only 2% of the women had amenorrhea. the incidence of dysfunction was highest for the subset of 12 wl who had competed in at least one body building competition (comp); 86% of the comp not on birth control pills had menstrual dysfunction (p less than 0.05). more wl than c reported missing at least one menstrual period during the last year (p = 0.06). wl scored significantly higher than c on the drive for thinness subscale of the eating disorder inventory (edi). fifteen percent of the wl and 9% of the c achieved the criteria on this subscale for being weight preoccupied (p greater than 0.05). significantly more wl than c responded that they were terrified of becoming fat (wl 56%, c 38%), were obsessed with food (wl 47%, c 30%), used laxatives for weight control (wl 14%, c 1%), and claimed that they had been anorexic in the past (wl 17%, c 5%). examination of the answers of comp revealed several items that were significantly different from the remainder of the wl. for example, 42% used to be anorexic, 67% were terrified of becoming fat, and 50% experienced uncontrollable urges to eat.
atopy and primary lung cancer. histology and sex distribution. atopy, defined as the ability to develop ige antibodies to commonly encountered allergens under conditions of normal exposure, has an inherited component with pleiotropic effects. an inverse relationship between the occurrence of atopy, allergy-related diseases, and cancers at specific sites has been reported. the familial association of primary lung cancer is most evident among women, nonsmokers, and those with adenocarcinomas. in order to determine whether the relationship between a lower prevalence of atopy among patients with lung cancer compared to control subjects was consistent between histologic cell types, we used seven common allergens to allergy prick skin test 209 community control subjects (46 women), 109 cases with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the lung (25 women), and 67 patients with primary adenocarcinomas of the lung (23 women). we have confirmed earlier reports of an inverse relationship between atopy and lung cancer risk. in analyses focusing on sex and histologic cell type, we found that women with adenocarcinomas were an exception and were as likely to be atopic as control subjects. the evidence does not support a protective role for atopy among these women.
high- versus standard-dose megestrol acetate in women with advanced breast cancer: a phase iii trial of the piedmont oncology association. one hundred seventy-two patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive oral standard-dose megestrol acetate (ma), 160 mg/d or high-dose ma, 800 mg/d. all but two patients had one prior trial of tamoxifen therapy for either metastatic disease (74%) or as adjuvant treatment (26%). pretreatment characteristics were similar for both arms. high-dose ma resulted in a superior complete plus partial response rate (27% v 10%, p = .005), time to treatment failure (median, 8.0 v 3.2 months, p = .019), and survival (median, 22.4 v 16.5 months, p = .04) when compared with standard-dose therapy. these differences remained significant after adjustment for other covariates. thirty-four patients were given high-dose ma after failure of standard-dose ma treatment, and none responded. weight gain was the most distressing side effect, with 13% of standard-dose and 43% of high-dose patients gaining more than 20 lbs. four major cardiovascular events occurred in patients receiving high-dose treatment and one in patients given standard doses. other toxicity was modest. high-dose ma may represent a significant improvement in secondary endocrine therapy for advanced breast cancer patients refractory to initial endocrine treatment, but its use on a regular basis should be reserved until these results are confirmed by other clinical trials.
axillosubclavian vein thrombosis produced by retrosternal thyroid. several causes of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis have been described. trauma to the subclavian vein by pacemaker wires or central venous lines as well as the so-called effort thrombosis have been recognized as frequently diagnosed precipitating factors. a patient is herein presented with thrombosis of the subclavian vein caused by a giant substernal thyroid compressing the innominate vein.
endoscopic sclerotherapy for control of bleeding varices in children. thirty-three children with esophageal varices due to portal hypertension underwent injection sclerotherapy over a period of 6 yr. thirty-one completed the sclerotherapy course, and the varices were eradicated in all. in nine, the procedure was performed as an emergency because of continued bleeding and, in each case, a gastric fundal varix was the source of the blood loss. sclerotherapy successfully controlled the bleeding in four of these, whereas five required surgical underrunning of the fundal varix. after surgery, these five continued sclerotherapy until the esophageal varices were eradicated. complications included transient pyrexia (39%), retrosternal discomfort (30%), esophageal ulceration (18%), and esophageal stricture (12%). rebleeding before initial eradication of the varices occurred in 12 patients but, thereafter, was very uncommon and always small in amount. esophageal varices recurred after initial eradication in 33% of cases but were easily sclerosed with further injections. this study demonstrates that sclerotherapy is effective in reducing bleeding frequency in children with portal hypertension, but emphasizes the need for regular follow-up endoscopy after initial eradication of esophageal varices.
urogenital dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum. the long-term urogenital dysfunctions in 46 of 104 surviving patients submitted to abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma between 1972 and 1986 were collected and assessed. urinary retention was present in 41 percent of the men and 35 percent of women, while incontinence was present in 10 percent of men and 29 percent of women. impotence was reported by 59 percent of the males, all sexually active before surgery. dyspareunia was present in 50 percent of the women in the study. the possibility of treating prostatic hypertrophy concurrently with abdominoperineal resection in selected cases to avoid urinary retention is discussed. the limited number of responders to the survey may interfere with the global statistical significance.
pelvic pain: lessons from anatomy and physiology. pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department. for physiologic reasons, pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ, and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize. on the other hand, differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis. the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain, and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation, ischemia, or colic. a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain.
retained bile duct stones in a patient with billroth ii gastrectomy: extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and papillary dilatation via t tube. a postoperative t tube cholangiogram after cholecystectomy in a 62 year old patient showed two retained calculi of 14 mm diameter each. endoscopic sphincterotomy was not possible because of previous billroth ii gastrectomy. the stones were disintegrated by electromagnetically generated extracorporeal shock waves. the t tube was replaced by a balloon catheter and the papilla of vater was dilatated allowing passage of stone fragments. we conclude that retained bile duct stones can be removed without sphincterotomy or percutaneous extraction by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and papillary dilatation. this method should be considered especially in patients with billroth ii gastrectomy.
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis: clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection. pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for hiv infection. patients with hiv infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent p. carinii pneumonia. signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved. extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques. therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat p. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients. an association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of p. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed. other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis. further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis.
opiates suppress carrageenan-induced edema and hyperthermia at doses that inhibit hyperalgesia. this study determined whether opiates alter vascular components of inflammation (hyperthermia, edema and plasma extravasation) in addition to the suppression of hyperalgesia. rats were administered carrageenan into one hind paw and saline into the other hind paw, followed by i.p. injection of morphine (0.2-5.0 mg/kg) or saline at 60 min, and testing at 90 min after hind paw injections. morphine produced a dose-dependent reduction in carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia (17-53%), hyperthermia (39-53%) and edema (24-36%). morphine treatment did not alter the temperatures of the contralateral saline-injected paws, indicating that opiate suppression of hyperthermia was not confounded by alterations in systemic body temperature or blood flow. the opiate effects on inflammation were stereospecific since levorphanol (1 mg/kg), but not dextrorphan (1 mg/kg), suppressed carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia, hyperthermia and edema. pre-treatment with naltrexone (1.5 mg/kg) blocked the effects of a 5 mg/kg dose of morphine sulfate on hyperalgesia, hyperthermia and edema. in a separate study, i.v. injection of morphine sulfate (2 mg/kg) reduced plasma extravasation by 41% (p less than 0.01). morphine administration resulted in significantly greater increases in paw withdrawal latencies in the inflamed (38-139%) than the contralateral, saline-treated paws (4-19%). the results indicate that opiates exert a moderate, though significant, reduction in the vascular signs of inflammation in addition to their reduction of hyperalgesia. the mechanisms for this vascular effect involve inhibition of both vasodilation (as indicated by a decrease in hyperthermia) and inhibition of vascular permeability. in addition, opiates exhibit enhanced antinociceptive effects in inflamed paws, even when compared to uninjured paws in the same animal.
hepatitis b virus integration in hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma in childhood. in taiwan, hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the major malignancies in children between 5 and 14 yr of age. we studied the status of hepatitis b virus dna in the hepatocellular carcinoma and nontumorous liver tissues of eight children with positive serum hbsag and maternal hbsag. the hepatocellular carcinoma tissues from five of the eight children showed integration of hepatitis b virus dna into host cellular dna sequences. a pattern of single-site integration in four children and a multiple-site integration pattern in one child were demonstrated. in the remaining three children, hepatitis b virus dna could not be demonstrated in the tumor tissues. using subgenomic fragments of the hepatitis b virus genome as probes, we found that the x gene fragment and the surface antigen gene fragment were the most conserved sequences. the single-site integration of hepatitis b virus dna in childhood hepatocellular carcinoma may have hit the critical region, resulting in insertional mutagenesis and early development of hepatocellular carcinoma. with a short incubation period and less exposure to environmental carcinogens during early life, childhood hepatocellular carcinoma may provide a good model to study the carcinogenic potential of hepatitis b virus.
a patient-oriented approach to perilymph fistula. the subject of perilymph fistula is controversial in part because the preoperative diagnosis of perilymph fistula is difficult. patients suffering auditory and vestibular symptoms secondary to perilymph fistula, therefore, present a dilemma to the practicing physician. in some instances, patients with auditory and vestibular symptoms in the absence of perilymph fistula will be subjected to middle ear exploration without benefit, while in other instances patients with auditory and vestibular symptoms secondary to perilymph fistula will be denied surgical treatment. auditory and vestibular symptoms are a quality of life issue. therefore, in an effort to provide care of the highest quality the patient must be actively involved in the decision process. such involvement can be meaningful only after the patient is carefully counseled as to the pros and cons of surgery, as well as the alternatives. a prognostic paradigm based on the personal experience of one of us (w.l.m.) with perilymph fistula patients is described and is used in patient consultation in an effort to facilitate decision making.
prospective study of early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis. we prospectively monitored 140 cirrhotic patients for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma for 6 yr, using periodical screening by high-resolution convex-array ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein. twenty-eight patients were positive for hbs antigen, 26 patients had received blood transfusions and were negative for hbs antigen and 26 patients had a history of heavy drinking. we detected hepatocellular carcinoma in 40 patients during this period. the overall cumulative incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the 6 yr was 39%; the cumulative incidence was 59% in patients with hbsag, 53% in patients who had had blood transfusions and were negative for hbsag and 22% in patients who had a history of heavy drinking and who were without hbsag. detection of the carcinoma in 85% of these 40 patients was based on results of ultrasonography. twenty-six of the patients (65%) had a small hepatocellular carcinoma of 2 cm or less. alpha-fetoprotein levels were lower than 100 ng/ml in 56% of these 40 patients. patients with cirrhosis are at high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma, especially patients with hbsag or with a history of blood transfusion who are negative for hbsag. periodic monitoring by use of ultrasonography in particular is recommended for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma.
transformation-associated alterations in interactions between pre-b cells and fibronectin. marrow stromal elements produce as yet uncharacterized soluble growth factors that can stimulate the proliferation of murine pre-b cells, although close contact between these two cell types appears to ensure a better pre-b cell response. we have now shown that freshly isolated normal pre-b cells (ie, the b220+, surface mu- fraction of adult mouse bone marrow) adhere to fibronectin (fn) via an rgd cell-attachment site, as shown in a serum-free adherence assay, and they lose this functional ability on differentiation in vivo into b cells (ie, the b220+, surface mu+ fraction). similarly, cells from an immortalized but stromal cell-dependent and nontumorigenic murine pre-b cell line originally derived from a whitlock-witte culture were also found to adhere to fibronectin (fn) via an rgd cell-attachment site. moreover, in the presence of anti-fn receptor antibodies, the ability of this immortalized pre-b cell line to proliferate when co-cultured with a supportive stromal cell line (m2-10b4 cells) was markedly reduced (down to 30% of control). this suggests that pre-b cell attachment to fn on stromal cells may be an important component of the mechanism by which stromal cells stimulate normal pre-b cell proliferation and one that is no longer operative to control their more differentiated progeny. two differently transformed pre-b cell lines, both of which are autocrine, stromal-independent, tumorigenic in vivo, and partially or completely differentiation-arrested at a very early stage of pre-b cell development, did not bind to fn. in addition, anti-fn receptor antibodies were much less effective in diminishing the ability of these tumorigenic pre-b cells to respond to m2-10b4 cell stimulation, which could still be demonstrated when the tumorigenic pre-b cells were co-cultured with m2-10b4 cells at a sufficiently low cell density. analysis of cell surface molecules immunoprecipitated from both the nontumorigenic and tumorigenic pre-b cell lines by an anti-fn receptor antibody showed an increase in very late antigen (vla) alpha chain(s) in both tumorigenic pre-b cell lines and a decrease in the beta 1 chain in one. interestingly, all of the pre-b cell lines expressed similar amounts of messenger rna for the beta 1 chain of the fn receptor. these results suggest that alteration of fn receptor expression on pre-b cells may represent a mechanism contributing to the outgrowth of leukemic pre-b cells with an autocrine phenotype and capable of stromal cell-independent, autonomous growth.
uses and limitations of transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of atrial septal defect in the adult. two-dimensional and color doppler echocardiography accurately detected the presence of an atrial septal defect (asd) in 47 of 50 adults (mean age 40 years) confirmed by surgery or cardiac catheterization, or both. it correctly categorized all patients with ostium secundum and ostium primum asd but misdiagnosed 3 of 5 patients with surgically proven sinus venosus asd. the shunt flow volume across the asd was calculated with the standard doppler equation, and assuming the asd to be circular correlated with shunt flow volume obtained by cardiac catheterization (r = 0.74). the maximum width of the color flow signals moving across the asd was taken as its diameter. mean flow velocity was determined either by placing a pulsed doppler sample volume parallel to the flow across the asd as visualized by color doppler or by color m-mode examination, which allowed determination of flow velocities using a previously validated method that incorporates a computer analysis of pixel color intensity. the pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio obtained by color-guided conventional doppler interrogation of the left and right ventricular outflow tracts correlated poorly with cardiac catheterization results (r = 0.38). in patients with associated tricuspid regurgitation, the peak systolic pulmonary artery pressure obtained by color doppler-guided continuous-wave doppler correlated well with that obtained at cardiac catheterization (r = 0.89). the maximum color doppler jet width of the flow across the asd poorly correlated with asd size estimated at surgery (r = 0.50).
interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of recombinant alpha-interferon treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. in a randomized controlled trial of recombinant alpha-2a interferon for chronic hepatitis b, interferon antibodies developed in 21 (39%) of 54 chinese adults who received ifn. no correlation was observed between sex, age, pretreatment serum alt level or liver histological findings and the development of interferon antibodies. antibodies were significantly more likely to develop in patients who received lower doses (2.5 or 5 mu/m2) of alpha-2a interferon than in those who received a higher dose (10 mu/m2): 53% vs. 11% (p = 0.006). the development of interferon antibodies appeared to reverse the initial antiviral response to treatment, with reappearance of hepatitis b virus dna in serum in 12 patients and hbeag in three patients. sustained clearance of hbeag was achieved in only one (5%) patient but was achieved in seven (21%) patients without interferon antibodies. the mere presence of interferon antibodies did not preclude an antiviral response to interferon therapy, but patients with high titer neutralizing antibodies were less likely to respond. these findings suggest that interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of alpha-2a interferon. a higher incidence of interferon antibodies in chinese vs. white patients with chronic hepatitis b may contribute to the poorer antiviral response in chinese patients.
relationship of ischemic heart disease to sudden death. a clinicopathological synthesis is presented of the relationship of ischemic heart disease to sudden cardiac death. the immediate pathophysiological process responsible for sudden cardiac death is a lethal arrhythmia, usually ventricular fibrillation. although significant coronary atherosclerosis is present in most cases of naturally occurring sudden death, available evidence indicates that several mechanisms can be operative in the pathogenesis of the fatal event. these are (1) acute myocardial infarction in a minority of cases; (2) myocardial ischemia, without infarction, which is initiated either by (a) an exertion-induced increase in myocardial oxygen demand or (b) an acute coronary event often involving plaque degeneration and platelet aggregation; and (3) a primary arrhythmia, usually resulting from altered electrical conduction in the setting of a previous myocardial infarction.
prolonged administration of oral etoposide in patients with relapsed or refractory small-cell lung cancer: a phase ii trial. twenty-two patients with recurrent small-cell lung cancer (sclc) were treated with single-agent etoposide 50 mg/m2/d by mouth for 21 consecutive days. eleven patients had received previous chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine (cav) or etoposide (cae) or both (cave). four of the latter patients also received salvage treatment with cisplatin and etoposide (ep). nine patients had been treated with ep as induction therapy, while two patients had received high-dose cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin (hdcep). altogether, 18 patients had received previous intravenous etoposide. the median time off chemotherapy was 4.5 months (range, 1 to 28.9 months). ten patients (45.5%; 95% confidence interval [ci], 27% to 65%) achieved a complete or partial response. responses were most common in patients who had responded to previous chemotherapy and who had not received any treatment in the 90 days before initiation of oral etoposide. median response duration was 4 months (range, 1.5 to 9.5 months) and median survival was 3.5+ months (range, 1.0 to 15+ months). leukocyte and platelet nadirs were 1,800/microl and 160,000/microl, respectively, during cycle 1 of treatment and occurred between days 21 and 28. overall, total leukocyte count decreased to less than 1,000/microl during 10 of 56 cycles (18%). five patients required six hospitalizations for neutropenia and fever. there were two toxic deaths due to sepsis. platelet counts less than 50,000/microl occurred in 14 cycles (25%). alopecia developed in all patients; gastrointestinal toxicity was uncommon. this schedule of etoposide administration warrants further study in combination with other active agents in previously untreated patients with sclc.
low diacylglycerol values in colonic adenomas and colorectal cancer. the biochemical events that make colonic epithelial cells proceed along the adenoma-carcinoma sequence are not well understood. the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway is involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. to determine its role in colonic neoplasias we performed mass measurements of its second messenger sn-1,2-diacylglycerol in biopsy specimens from normal mucosa and neoplasias of the colon. normal colonic mucosa was also investigated in patients without colonic abnormalities (n = 10). compared with pooled diacylglycerol values from five colonic sites (100%), values in patients with a normal colon were highest in the ascending colon (120 (5)%, p less than 0.05) and lowest in the rectum (81 (5)%, p less than 0.01). absolute diacylglycerol values in patients with normal colons (2.62 (0.16) nmol/mg protein) were not significantly different from those found in the normal mucosa of patients with colorectal neoplasias (2.45 (0.17) nmol/mg protein). both colonic adenomas (n = 15) and colorectal carcinomas (n = 14) showed significantly decreased diacylglycerol values compared with the adjacent normal mucosa of each patient (72 (4)%, p less than 0.001, and 71 (4)%, p less than 0.001 respectively). the appreciable decrease in mass diacylglycerol values clearly distinguishes adenomas and carcinomas of the colon from the surrounding normal mucosa. this finding suggests that profound metabolic changes of the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway occur early in the adenoma-carcinoma sequence and may be important in colonic carcinogenesis.
reversible hearing loss from cerebellopontine angle tumors. we report two patients who presented with a dramatic recovery from severe sensorineural hearing loss after total surgical removal of cerebellopontine angle tumors (meningioma and jugular foramen neurinoma). the factors that differentiate these "non-acoustic tumors" in relation to the prognosis for hearing are discussed. a surgical approach that maintains the labyrinthine structure and preserves the arachnoid membrane of the superior cerebellopontine angle cistern during tumor removal is stressed.
lateral medullary infarction: prognosis in an unselected series. we describe the acute and long-term prognosis in 43 patients with lateral medullary infarction (lmi) collected from a population-based stroke registry from 1982 to july 1988. mean age was 63.9 years and median time of follow-up was 33 months. in the acute phase, 5 patients (11.6%) died from respiratory and cardiovascular complications and 2 new strokes occurred, both in the posterior circulation. during follow-up, recurrent vertebrobasilar territory strokes occurred in only 2 patients (a rate of 1.9% per year). the mechanisms of stroke were vertebral artery (va) branch occlusion, causing a medial medullary syndrome, and basilar artery thrombosis propagating from a contralateral, distal va stenosis. in the acute phase of lmi, respiratory and cardiovascular events, presumably caused by autonomic dysfunction related to the lateral medullary lesion, are the major hazards. recurrent posterior circulation strokes were uncommon during follow-up.
nephron-sparing surgery for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement. a nephron-sparing operation recently has been shown to provide extended survival free of disease in selected patients with localized renal cell carcinoma, particularly for tumors of lower stage. to define better the role of conservative surgical treatment in more locally advanced renal cell carcinoma we reviewed 9 patients with venous tumor involvement in solitary functioning kidneys who underwent a nephron-sparing operation. complete tumor resection with adequate preservation of renal function was accomplished in all cases. of the 9 patients 5 had no evidence of disease 7 to 93 months (mean 33.2 months) postoperatively. the remaining 4 patients died of metastatic renal cell carcinoma 17 to 47 months (mean 35.5 months) postoperatively, 2 of whom had concomitant local recurrences in the renal remnant. based on previously reported results of total nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement and the morbidity associated with renal replacement therapy, we believe that a nephron-sparing operation is a viable option in the management of these patients.
hepatocellular carcinoma within siderotic regenerative nodules: appearance as a nodule within a nodule on mr images. large regenerative nodules in cirrhotic livers may accumulate iron and develop internal iron-poor foci of hyperplasia or malignancy. magnetic resonance examinations were performed on 23 patients with biopsy-proved cirrhosis. a "nodule-within-nodule" appearance was noted in two patients. this appearance consisted of markedly low intensity of a large nodule on gradient-echo images, with one or two internal foci that were isointense to the liver. each of the large nodules was 2 cm in diameter, and each of the internal foci was less than 1 cm. serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were normal in both patients. aspiration biopsy performed in one patient failed to show malignancy, but histologic confirmation of hepatocellular carcinoma was obtained eventually in both cases. the nodule-within-nodule sign, which reflects the unique histopathology of hepatocellular carcinoma in large siderotic regenerative nodules, is strongly suggestive of early hepatocellular carcinoma, even if serologic markers and biopsy results do not support this diagnosis.
phase i study of repeated cycles of high-dose cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin administered without bone marrow transplantation forty-two patients with advanced malignancy judged unlikely to respond to standard treatment received high-dose combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin in a phase i trial. twenty-two of these patients who had at least a partial response (pr) to the first cycle of therapy received a second cycle, and eight patients received three or more cycles of therapy. bone marrow replacement was not used. the maximum-tolerated doses (mtds) were cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 on days 1 and 2; etoposide 500 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3; and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3. hematologic toxicity was not dose-limiting by study design. recovery to an absolute granulocyte count above 100/microl occurred at a median of 9 days from onset (range, 3 to 23 days) at the mtd. recovery was delayed after the third cycle. only one patient on his third cycle failed to recover peripheral blood counts and died of sepsis an day 43. hematologic toxicity was not dose-dependent. nonhematologic toxicities included emesis, fatigue, alopecia, diarrhea, and anorexia and were generally well tolerated. the dose-limiting toxicities were fatal pulmonary or cardiac toxicities in five of nine patients treated at the highest dose level. patients likely to do well can be selected by tumor type, response to prior therapy, and performance status. nine of 36 assessable patients had a complete response (cr) and 13 a pr for a response rate of 61%. five patients (12%) remain alive and free of disease at 15 to 32 months. repeated cycles of dose-intensive combination therapy can produce long-term disease-free remissions in patients with refractory tumor types. the toxicity of the regimen is acceptable if patients are carefully selected.
pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy, with review of the literature. we report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies. he developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations, nutrition being maintained intravenously. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst. he thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst, but repeat ercp shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains. pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed. a third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life. a search for the underlying cause should include an ercp to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts.
partial reversibility of cisplatin nephrotoxicity in children. to evaluate the long-term renal toxicity of cisplatin, 40 children who had been without treatment at least 18 months (range 18 months to 7 years) were observed. in all the children, glomerular filtration rate (gfr) was estimated from the plasma clearance of chromium 51-labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, both at the end of treatment and at a median follow-up of 2 years 6 months after treatment was stopped (range 18 months to 7 years). in 21 children, serum magnesium level was also measured at follow-up. median age at diagnosis was 15 months (range 13 days to 13 years 8 months), and median cumulative doses of cisplatin was 500 mg/m2 (range 120 to 1860 mg/m2). in 22 of 24 children with an end-of-treatment gfr of less than 80 ml/min per 1.73 m2, the median improvement in gfr at follow-up was 22 ml/min per 1.73 m2 (range 2 to 56 ml/min per 1.73 m2). hypomagnesemia was found in 6 of 21 children and was independent of gfr. no significant correlation was found between improvement in renal function and total cisplatin dose, age, gender, tumor type, or associated nephrotoxic medication. we conclude that most children have some recovery from cisplatin glomerular toxicity, especially if damage is not severe, but that hypomagnesemia may persist.
epidemiology of acute respiratory infections in young children from thailand. a prospective evaluation of the epidemiology and presentations of acute respiratory infections in children younger than 5 years of age admitted to children's hospital bangkok (1988 to 1989) was supported by the world health organization. there were 226 patients with the inclusion criteria: 1 to 5 years of age; duration of illness less than 2 weeks; no prior antibiotic therapy; and low socioeconomic status. the disease categories included: croup, 19 cases; bronchiolitis, 60 cases; and pneumonia, 147 cases. pathogens isolated were: respiratory syncytial virus (40); parainfluenza iii (1); influenza b (1); and adenovirus (1); bacterial infections were proved in 23 cases. no significant differences in clinical features between bacterial and viral pneumonia were found. interstitial radiographic patterns were more common in viral pneumonia whereas alveolar patterns were more common in bacterial pneumonia. however, 91% of mixed radiographic patterns (interstitial and alveolar) in chest films were from viral pneumonia.
serum aldolase isozyme levels in patients with cerebrovascular diseases. a subunit specific radioimmunoassay was developed for the quantification of human aldolase a, b, and c. the method used was a double antibody radioimmunoassay using radioiodinated purified aldolase a, b, or c subunits as the ligand, specific chicken antibodies to aldolase isozymes and rabbit antibodies to chicken igg. the iodogen method was used for iodination of the purified isozyme subunits in this study. human brain tissue contained similar concentrations of aldolase a and aldolase c, and a smaller amount of aldolase b, which was the main isozyme of liver tissue. levels of serum aldolase a were greater than 203 ng/ml, the upper limit of normal, in six of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and in 11 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage. nine of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and 16 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage had serum aldolase c levels greater than 4.1 ng/ml, the upper limit in normal sera. these data suggest that serum aldolase c may be a more specific and sensitive marker of cerebrovascular diseases than aldolase a. we also demonstrated that serial measurement of serum aldolase c in patients with cerebrovascular diseases might be useful in estimating prognosis, since serially increasing serum aldolase c levels during the course of these diseases were correlated with a high mortality rate.
diagnostic value of maximal exercise tidal volume. though breathing pattern is frequently analyzed during clinical exercise testing, there is little information regarding its usefulness in the differential diagnosis of impaired exercise tolerance. this study tested the hypothesis that differences in peak tidal volume during exercise between patients with different cardiorespiratory diseases are related largely to differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment (vital capacity), not to differences in disease state. patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, restrictive lung disease, bronchial asthma, and heart disease (mitral valve disease or left ventricular dysfunction) were studied. subjects selected had one and only one of the above diagnoses. all subjects performed maximal (symptom-limited) incremental exercise on a cycle ergometer. multiple linear regression of all subjects (n = 30) in all four groups showed a significant correlation between vtmax and vc: vtmax = 0.55, vc -0.09 l (r = 0.827, p less than 0.0001). the vtmax/vc (x 100) was (mean +/- sd) 44 +/- 15, 54 +/- 11, 56 +/- 11, and 54 +/- 12 for the copd, rld, ba and hd patients respectively. there was no significant difference between any of the groups. we concluded that differences in vtmax between different patients are related largely to differences in vc (ie, differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment), not to differences in disease state. measurement of vtmax or the vtmax/vc ratio has little value in the differential diagnosis of exertional dyspnea.
hodgkin's disease in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection. pathologic and immunologic features. six patients with hodgkin's disease (hd) and demonstrable serum antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) and two additional patients with hd belonging to hiv-associated high-risk groups but with negative hiv serology were studied. all patients were men and ranged in age from 21 to 45 years. the hiv risk factors included homosexuality (6), intravenous drug abuse (2), and hemophilia a (1). all patients had high pathologically determined stage (one stage iii and seven stage iv), and bone marrow involvement was observed in five patients with the initial diagnosis of hd based on marrow biopsy in two cases. four cases were histologically subclassified as mixed cellularity (mc) and three as nodular sclerosis (ns); one patient underwent only bone marrow biopsy and was not subclassified. histologically all cases were characterized by numerous reed-sternberg cells and variants, and with the exception of one case, all had a distinctive decrease in the proportion of reactive background lymphocytes compared with what is usually expected in mc or ns hodgkin's disease (relative lymphocyte depletion). flow-cytometric immunophenotypic studies done on cell suspensions from diagnostic lymph node biopsies in four cases showed decreased cd4:cd8 ratios (mean = 1.4) compared with expected values of 4 to 6. the relative lymphocyte depletion observed histologically is probably a reflection of the decreased tissue cd4:cd8 ratios, and this impairment of host immune response may be related to the observed high stage in all eight cases. patients with high stage hd and the described histologic and immunologic features should be evaluated for the presence of hiv infection.
treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma with a combination of low-dose interferon alfa-2b and retinoids. in a pilot study the therapeutic effect and side effect profile of low-dose interferon alfa-2b in combination with a retinoid for the treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma were evaluated. seven patients (four women, three men) with histologically confirmed cutaneous t cell lymphoma were included. four patients had received therapy previously. the treatment schedule consisted of 2 million u of interferon alfa-2b administered subcutaneously three times per week and oral 13-cis-retinoic acid, 1 mg/kg/day, with subsequent dose reduction in case of response. the combination therapy produced two complete and two partial remissions. responses were maintained by continuous therapy for up to 15 months even after dose reduction of both agents by 50%. side effects were negligible and did not result in discontinuation of treatment in any patient.
accumulation and pepsin solubility of collagens in the bowel of patients with crohn's disease. the collagen content of resected strictured intestine, with and without fistulas, from patients with crohn's disease has been compared with that in macroscopically normal intestine removed from the same patients and from others without inflammatory bowel disease. collagen content per unit wet or dry weight of tissue was significantly increased in all grossly diseased tissue whether fistulated or not. although there was a significant increase in collagen types i, iii, and v in diseased tissue, the relative proportions of major collagen types extracted by limited pepsin digestion were similar for both crohn's and non-crohn's intestine (type i, 65 to 70 percent; type iii, 25 to 30 percent; type iv, 2 to 3 percent; and type v, 2.5 to 3 percent). cnbr digestion of pepsin insoluble material showed a similar relative abundance of types i and iii, indicating no major change in collagen type distribution between older (insoluble) and more newly synthesized collagen. there was no evidence of the presence of type i trimer collagen. type vi collagen, although not quantitated, was observed in 70 percent of intestinal specimens. the proportion of total collagen solubilized by pepsin treatment was significantly greater in both grossly diseased and macroscopically normal crohn's bowel compared with non-inflammatory bowel disease bowel. these findings suggest that there are disturbances of collagen metabolism in crohn's intestine, which account for the stricturing process and which may predate gross pathologic changes.
an objective comparison of intrathecal lidocaine versus fentanyl for the treatment of lower extremity spasticity. the reduction of spasticity after administration of intrathecal fentanyl, 35 micrograms, and intrathecal lidocaine, 50 mg, was compared with preinjection spasticity levels in ten subjects with central nervous system disease or injury. spasticity was objectively assessed by an electronic instrument that simultaneously measures degrees of extension and force during passive knee extension. duration of spasticity relief and adverse effects were recorded. both drugs equally reduced spasticity and increased the range of motion. there were no supraspinal side effects from the fentanyl, whereas three subjects became hypotensive after receiving lidocaine. the reduction of spasticity with intrathecal fentanyl lasted at least 3 h. the authors postulate that fentanyl reduced spasticity by an effect on spinal pathways. intrathecal fentanyl should be considered as an alternative to lidocaine for diagnostic blocks in patients with spasticity.
parkinsonian tremor loses its alternating aspect during non-rem sleep and is inhibited by rem sleep. non-rem sleep transforms the waking alternating parkinsonian tremor into subclinical repetitive muscle contractions whose amplitude and duration decrease as non-rem sleep progresses from stages i to iv. during rem sleep parkinsonian tremor disappears while the isolated muscle events increase significantly.
evidence of serum-protein leakage across the blood-brain barrier in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. lesions of the central nervous system (cns) in 23 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) were compared with control cases for the presence of serum protein by immunoperoxidase staining. a sensitive immunostaining kit in conjunction with rabbit antisera to human serum, albumin, immunoglobulins and complement component 3c was used to demonstrate specific immunoreactivity in paraffin-embedded sections. most aids patients with cns lesions had serum protein immunoreactivity in some neurons, glial cells (including astrocytes), gliomesenchymal cell nodules, vascular endothelial cells, inflammatory cells or microvascular walls. cases with the most necrosis tended to have the least immunostaining. immunoreactivity for igg and fixed complement in anatomically intact or morphologically altered neural cells may indicate cellular lesions and potential cellular necrosis beyond the damage indicated by routine studies alone. part of this immunoreactivity might represent a humoral autoimmune response.
surfactant replacement therapy with a single postventilatory dose of a reconstituted bovine surfactant in preterm neonates with respiratory distress syndrome: final analysis of a multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial and comparison with similar trials. the surfactant-ta study group. the effects of a single dose of surfactant ta were assessed in premature neonates (birth weight 750 to 1749 g) with respiratory distress syndrome (rds) in a multicenter, double-blind, randomized clinical trial. only neonates with surfactant deficiency and without ultrasonographic evidence of intracranial hemorrhage greater than or equal to grade ii were enrolled. fifty-four patients received surfactant (100 mg of phospholipid per kilogram of body weight) and 46 patients received an air placebo within 8 hours of life. treatment with this surfactant resulted in a significant reduction in the severity of rds with a concomitant increase in the proportion of neonates with mild disease. the frequency of pulmonary interstitial emphysema and of pneumothorax was significantly lower in treated neonates compared with control neonates (2% vs 26%, p = .0008, and 7% vs 39%, p = .0004, respectively). the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage was significantly lower in the surfactant group compared with the control group (20% vs 54%, p = .0008) and was also reduced for the smallest neonates in the surfactant group (13% vs 73%, p = .00008). when categorized according to severity of intracranial hemorrhage and severity of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, the surfactant group was at a significant advantage (adjusted cochran-mantel-haenszel x2 = 10.72, p less than .001 and x2 = 4.43, p = .036, respectively). the proportion of neonates surviving without intracranial hemorrhage and/or bronchopulmonary dysplasia was 63% in the surfactant group vs 26% in the control group (p = .0004); as for the smallest neonates, it was 58% in the surfactant group vs 4% in the control group (p = .0002). there were no differences between the groups with respect to the frequency of patent ductus arteriosus (46% vs 37%), pulmonary hemorrhage (6% vs 7%), necrotizing enterocolitis (0% vs 2%), sepsis (4% vs 2%), retinopathy of prematurity (13% vs 22%), or death (15% vs 22%). it is concluded that treatment with the single-dose surfactant regimen used in this study reduces the severity of respiratory distress during the 48 hours after treatment and decreases the major pulmonary morbidity and intracranial hemorrhage in premature neonates with rds. further studies are needed to determine whether (1) treatment at birth or as soon as after rds is diagnosed and (2) the use of multiple dose of this surfactant would result in any additional benefits.
spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis. we report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester. spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred, associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome.
the prevalence of gallstone disease in very old institutionalized persons. we present the results of a study that was undertaken at a large geriatric nursing home to assess the prevalence of gallstone disease in very old institutionalized persons. one hundred seventeen residents underwent ultrasound examination of the gallbladder. two thirds of 82 women and half of 35 men had gallstone disease. when stratified for age, 80% of women and men over the age of 90 years were positive for the disease. in summary, the prevalence of gallstone disease in our very old nursing home population was found to be unexpectedly high.
antimigraine treatment for slit ventricle syndrome. slit ventricle syndrome is characterized by chronic or recurring headaches associated with subnormal ventricular volume in patients who have undergone shunt treatment for hydrocephalus. there appear to be at least three pathophysiological mechanisms that cause this syndrome: 1) intermittent shunt malfunction; 2) intracranial hypotension; and 3) paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure in the presence of normal shunt function. to treat seven patients with slit ventricle syndrome caused by paroxysms of elevated intracranial pressure, we successfully used antimigraine therapy rather than standard calvarial expansion procedures. none of these patients has required shunt revision or calvarial expansion during a mean follow-up period of 2 years. the symptoms of slit ventricle syndrome may be a form of "acquired" migraine in shunt patients. we suggest that, in clinically stable patients with normal shunt function, treatment against migraine may stabilize symptoms resulting from paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure. such treatment may prevent unnecessary shunt revisions and/or calvarial expansion procedures.
increased serotoninergic and noradrenergic activity in hepatic encephalopathy in rats with thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure. functional changes of various neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. in this study the role of brain monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems in hepatic encephalopathy was investigated in rats with thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure. concentrations of serotonin, dopamine, noradrenaline and of their metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, dihydroxyphenylalanine (following inhibition of dihydroxyphenylalanine-decarboxylase), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl-glycol, were measured in the cerebral cortex, striatum and hippocampus by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. in hepatic encephalopathy concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were increased in all three brain areas (196%, 204% and 264% of saline-treated controls, p less than 0.01), and concentrations of serotonin were increased in the frontal cortex (121%, p less than 0.01). in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of encephalopathic rats dopamine levels were increased (157% and 289%, p less than 0.05), and levels of noradrenaline (53% and 46%, p less than 0.05) were decreased associated with increased 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol levels (173% and 206%, p less than 0.05). the extent of these changes correlated with the stage of hepatic encephalopathy. in hepatic encephalopathy dihydroxyphenylalanine accumulation was increased in the hippocampus and unchanged in the cerebral cortex. dopamine, noradrenaline, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid concentrations were unchanged in the striatum. the results of this study indicate that hepatic encephalopathy in thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure in rats is associated with neurochemical changes, suggesting an increased activity of the noradrenergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems.
in vivo technetium-99m s12 antibody imaging of platelet alpha-granules in rabbit endothelial neointimal proliferation after angioplasty. to examine the specificity of technetium-99m monoclonal antibody (s12) imaging for identifying activated platelets at interventional injury sites in atherosclerotic rabbit arteries, subgroups of unheparinized rabbits (n = 39) underwent serial percutaneous transluminal aortic angioplasty (pta) procedures (with or without intravascular stent placement) followed by in vivo and then ex vivo gamma camera imaging, scanning, and immunoelectron microscopy to determine the intravascular loci of s12 fab' antibody binding. despite angiographic vessel patency, image-derived ratios of in vivo s12 binding in injured versus uninjured vascular segments were significantly increased (p less than 0.05) after one pta (1.3 +/- 0.17, n = 7), pta twice at 6-week intervals (1.4 +/- 0.22, n = 7), and pta plus stent placement (1.6 +/- 0.28, n = 7) compared with control experiments (1.1 +/- 0.13, n = 7). ex vivo imaging of blood-free excised aortas confirmed s12 localization at pta (2 +/- 0.4, n = 3) and pta plus stent placement (5 +/- 3.8, n = 7) sites (both p less than 0.05 versus controls). s12 antibody uptake decreased significantly (p less than 0.05) at 1 week after pta plus stent placement in vivo (1.1 +/- 0.10, n = 4) and ex vivo (1.6 +/- 0.7, n = 3). electron microscopic studies confirmed dense platelet, fibrin, and red blood cell deposition in regions of acute injury, with endothelial neointimal proliferation at 1 week after pta. immunoelectron microscopic studies confirmed specific in vivo s12 binding (22:1 versus nonrelevant igg) at sites of alpha-granule gmp-140 expression in activated platelets. therefore, s12 studies may be useful to localize sites of platelet-derived mitogen release at arterial pta injury sites.
cerulein-induced pancreatitis in the ex vivo isolated perfused canine pancreas. infusion of supramaximal doses of the cholecystokinin analog cerulein is well established as an in vivo technique for inducing experimental pancreatitis in small animals. an attempt was made to simulate this model and initiate pancreatitis in the ex vivo isolated perfused canine pancreas. control preparations gained minimal weight (mean 8.3 +/- 5.1 gm), demonstrated no edema accumulation, and did not develop hyperamylasemia (mean 1342 +/- 790 units) after 4 hours of perfusion. electron microscopy after 4 hours of perfusion remained normal. intraarterial cerulein infusion produced significant weight gain (mean 27.6 +/- 12.3 gm; p less than 0.001), edema formation, and marked hyperamylasemia (mean 26,838 +/- 21,341 units; p less than 0.001) after 4 hours of perfusion. during the 4-hour perfusion, electron microscopy of cerulein preparations demonstrated depletion of zymogen granules, condensing vacuole formation, and basolateral exocytosis. pretreatment of cerulein preparations with the free radical scavengers superoxide dismutase and catalase and the iron chelator deferoxamine did not modify the pancreatitis. continuous infusion of the nonpeptide cholecystokinin antagonist l364,718 reduced cerulein-induced weight gain (4.3 +/- 3.4 gm; p less than 0.001) and hyperamylasemia (9392 +/- 6718 units; p less than 0.05). we conclude that cerulein pancreatitis in the ex vivo isolated perfused canine pancreatic preparation is identical physiologically, biochemically, and morphologically with that seen in intact animals.
pseudo pre-excitation with concertina effect in idioventricular tachycardia. the concertina effect is a phenomenon where the qrs complexes reflect alternating phases of gradual widening and narrowing. this is most commonly due to ventricular pre-excitation, and the changes in qrs morphology are due to variability of the ventricular zone that undergoes pre-excitation. this presentation reflects a case where the concertina effect is due to an idioventricular tachycardia at a rate nearly identical to the sinus rate. variable degrees of ventricular fusion therefore occur, and the concertina effect ensues, in relation to slight variations of the sinus cycle.
acute and chronic stress in duodenal ulcer disease. acute and chronic life event stressors were objectively assessed in a sample of duodenal ulcer patients and community controls. stress was assessed on two dimensions, "personal threat" and "goal frustration." chronic stressors (those of 6 months' duration or more) involving high goal frustration were significantly and independently associated with the onset and relapse of duodenal ulcers, as were acute events of high immediate but transient personal threat.
alterations in opioid parameters in the hypothalamus of rats with estradiol-induced polycystic ovarian disease. the distribution and density of selectively labeled mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid binding sites were examined by in vitro radioautography in the hypothalamus of normal, estradiol valerate (ev)-injected, and estradiol (e2)-implanted female rats. hypothalamic beta-endorphin concentration was also examined by ria in these three groups of animals. quantitative analysis of film radioautographs demonstrated a selective increase in mu-opioid binding in the medial preoptic area of ev-treated, but not of e2-implanted rats. however, both these estrogenized groups exhibited a reduction in the density of delta-opioid binding in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. statistically significant changes between either estrogenized groups were not observed for kappa-opioid binding. results on the hypothalamic concentration of beta-endorphin indicated a marked reduction in ev-injected animals with respect to controls. in contrast, the e2-implanted animals exhibited beta-endorphin concentrations similar to controls. the present results confirm the increase in opioid receptor binding previously reported in the hypothalamus of ev-treated rats and further demonstrate that this increase is confined to the medial preoptic area and exclusively concerns mu-opioid receptors. the concomitant reduction in beta-endorphin levels observed in the same group of animals suggests that the observed increase in mu-opioid binding could reflect a chronic up-regulation of the receptor in response to compromised beta-endorphin input. given the restriction of this effect to the site of origin of lhrh neurons and the demonstrated inhibitory role of opioids on lhrh release, it is tempting to postulate that such up-regulation could lead to the suppression of the plasma lh pattern that characterizes polycystic ovarian disease in the ev-treated rat.
intravenous immunoglobulin treatment in patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. clinical and laboratory characteristics associated with improvement. of 52 patients fulfilling the criteria of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 20 (38%) did not improve after intravenous immunoglobulin treatment, two (4%) had a short-lasting improvement and subsequent infusions had no effect, nine (17%) reached a spontaneously or therapeutically induced complete remission, and 21 patients (40%) needed intermittent infusions to maintain improvement. all patients who improved initially had symptoms that significantly interfered with life-style. after treatment, 90% of these patients were independent in their daily activities. significantly associated with improvement were disease duration of less than 1 year, progression of weakness until treatment, absence of discrepancy in weakness between arms and legs, areflexia of the arms, and slowed nerve conduction velocity of the motor median nerve. the probability of improvement if all these features are present in 93%.
myocardial temperature during cardiac operations: influence on right ventricular function. maintenance of right heart integrity is frequently neglected during coronary operations. right ventricular dysfunction sometimes limits the success of the surgical procedure, however. in addition to the use of cardioplegic solutions, myocardial hypothermia during ischemic cardiac arrest seems to be an important factor for guaranteeing right ventricular performance thereafter. this study was designed to measure myocardial temperature in patients with coronary artery disease who have significant stenosis of the right coronary artery in comparison with those who do not have stenosis of the right coronary artery and to evaluate the influence of myocardial temperature on right ventricular hemodynamics after cardiopulmonary bypass. right ventricular function was assessed by thermodilution technique, which allows measurement of right ventricular ejection fraction, right ventricular end-diastolic volume, and right ventricular end-systolic volume. right ventricular temperature differed significantly between the two groups, with the lowest value of 15.1 degrees +/- 1.8 degrees c in the group without stenosis of the right coronary artery and a value of 22.2 degrees +/- 2.1 degrees c in the group with stenosis of the right coronary artery. left ventricular and septal temperatures were without group differences within the investigation period. right ventricular hemodynamics were impaired only in the group with stenosis of the right coronary artery with a decrease in right ventricular ejection fraction from 44.2% to 34.1% immediately after termination of bypass and an increase in right ventricular end-diastolic volume index (+38%) and right ventricular end-systolic volume index (+70%). cardiac index decreased only in this group, too (-22.5%). analysis of covariance revealed a significant correlation only between changes in right ventricular ejection fraction, right ventricular end-diastolic volume, and right ventricular end-systolic volume and the course of right myocardial temperature. it is concluded that right ventricular hypothermia is more difficult to achieve in patients with a diseased right coronary artery. constant myocardial hypothermia, however, seems to be important in guaranteeing right ventricular function, which easily can be evaluated by the thermodilution technique.
cytomegalovirus infections in bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy. cytomegalovirus (cmv) infections were studied in 785 bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy. cmv excretion occurred in 24%, viremia in 9%, seroconversion in 40%, and overall active infection in 47%. cmv disease was much less common. retinitis, enteritis, and pneumonitis occurred in only one, five (less than 1%), and 55 (7%) of the patients, respectively. allograft recipients were more likely to develop cmv disease than were autograft patients (p = .0001) despite comparable rates of active cmv infection. cmv disease was rare after primary infection in both autograft and allograft recipients (0 and 1%, respectively). in contrast, cmv disease occurred in 16% of seropositive allograft recipients. among allograft recipients, risk factors for cmv pneumonitis were seropositivity, age greater than 10 years, and acute graft-vs.-host disease, while the use of cyclosporine as prophylaxis against graft-vs.-host disease was protective. although active infection rates did not decrease, the rates of cmv pneumonitis in allograft recipients during successive years declined significantly (p less than .001).
effect of epinephrine and lidocaine therapy on outcome after cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation. one hundred ninety-nine patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest persisted in ventricular fibrillation after the first defibrillation attempt and were then randomly assigned to receive either epinephrine or lidocaine before the next two shocks. the resulting electrocardiographic rhythms and outcomes for each group of patients were compared for each group and also compared with results during the prior 2 years, a period when similar patients primarily received sodium bicarbonate as initial adjunctive therapy. asystole occurred after defibrillation with threefold frequency after repeated injection of lidocaine (15 of 59, 25%) compared with patients treated with epinephrine (four of 55, 7%) (p less than 0.02). there was no difference in the proportion of patients resuscitated after treatment with either lidocaine or epinephrine (51 of 106, 48% vs. 50 of 93, 54%) and in the proportion surviving (18, 19% vs. 21, 20%), respectively. resuscitation (64% vs. 50%, p less than 0.005) but not survival rates (24% vs. 20%) were higher during the prior 2-year period in which initial adjunctive drug treatment for persistent ventricular fibrillation primarily consisted of a continuous infusion of sodium bicarbonate. the negative effect of lidocaine or epinephrine treatment was explained in part by their influence on delaying subsequent defibrillation attempts. survival rates were highest (30%) in a subset of patients who received no drug therapy between shocks. we conclude that currently recommended doses of epinephrine and lidocaine are not useful for improving outcome in patients who persist in ventricular fibrillation.
management of penile gunshot wounds. the management of 10 cases of penile gunshot wounds treated at henry ford hospital from 1982 to 1986 is reviewed. all patients were assaulted by low velocity weapons (handguns). eight patients had associated injuries, predominantly to the genital region (thigh, pubis, and scrotum). there were 5 urethral injuries; 4 were treated with primary repair, the remaining patient underwent delayed repair, complicated by severe urethral strictures requiring reoperation. blood at the urethral meatus was suggestive of urethral injury but microscopic hematuria was not. five penile injuries did not involve the urethra and were treated by debridement and primary wound closure with no immediate or delayed complications. in dealing with these injuries we recommend a high index of suspicion for urethral and regional organ injury and primary urethral closure if at all possible.
induction of arthritis in rats by aqueous suspensions of mycobacteria without the use of oil. we report for the first time the induction of arthritis by an aqueous, rather than an oil, suspension of killed tubercle bacilli. this was accomplished in the highly susceptible dark agouti strain of rats, by intraperitoneal injection during the healing phase of chemically induced peritonitis. the same procedure (injection after the induction of peritonitis) augmented the incidence of arthritis produced by bovine type ii collagen and freund's complete adjuvant. enhanced delivery of antigen from the peritoneal cavity to regional lymph nodes in the postinflammatory state was responsible for this increase in the induction of arthritis.
cardiac pathology in 470 consecutive forensic autopsies. cardiovascular disease continues to be the single most common generic cause of sudden and unexpected deaths. atherosclerotic coronary heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most prevalent forms of fatal cardiac disease observed at autopsy. other cardiac lesions are frequently listed as causes of death, but the prevalence of such lesions as incidental findings in the general population is unknown. in this study, 470 consecutive forensic autopsies were evaluated for minor and major anomalies. the most frequently observed major congenital finding was floppy mitral valve (5%). tunneled coronary arteries, considered minor congenital findings, were seen in 29%. atherosclerotic coronary heart disease was the most common major acquired finding, observed in 16% of cases. of the 470 hearts, only 8% were considered normal.
common skin lesions of the elderly. the elderly patient can present with a variety of skin lesions of the head and neck. this article is designed to acquaint the otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon with normal skin morphology and with the changes that occur with aging and sun exposure. common benign and malignant skin lesions of the aging patient are discussed.
effects of nitroprusside on transmitral flow velocity patterns in extreme heart failure: a combined hemodynamic and doppler echocardiographic study of varying loading conditions. to explore the mechanisms of change of left ventricular diastolic filling associated with preload and afterload reduction, the influence of nitroprusside on the transmitral flow velocity pattern, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and left ventricular pressure interaction was studied in 11 patients with end-stage heart failure. pulsed doppler echocardiographic recordings of mitral inflow were obtained with simultaneous high fidelity left ventricular and phase-corrected pulmonary capillary wedge pressure recordings before and during levels of nitroprusside infusion. with nitroprusside, left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressures decreased by 14% and 41% (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.05), respectively, and cardiac output increased by 67% (p less than 0.05). the pulmonary capillary wedge-left ventricular crossover pressure decreased by 41% (p less than 0.05), but the time constant of isovolumetric left ventricular pressure decrease t was insignificantly changed. isovolumetric relaxation time and acceleration and deceleration times of the early diastolic filling wave were significantly prolonged with nitroprusside infusion (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.05, respectively). peak early diastolic filling velocity was maintained (65 +/- 11 to 62 +/- 13 cm/s, p = ns) in spite of the decreased absolute crossover pressure. changes in peak early diastolic filling velocity correlated weakly with changes in the crossover pressure (r = 0.48, p less than 0.05) and correlated better with the crossover to left ventricular minimal pressure difference (r = 0.78, p less than 0.05). peak early diastolic filling velocity appears to be most affected by the early diastolic pulmonary capillary wedge to left ventricular pressure difference rather than the absolute pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. the lack of peak flow velocity change during nitroprusside infusion could be explained by either the associated decrease in left ventricular minimal pressure or downward shift of left ventricular diastolic pressure by the same amount as the decrease in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. this may reflect a reduction of external constraint to ventricular distensibility produced by a reduction in filling volume in patients with a markedly dilated ventricle. thus, a prolonged early diastolic filling period and preserved peak early diastolic filling velocity in spite of decreased left ventricular filling pressure and constant relaxation rate are associated with the beneficial effects of nitroprusside on left ventricular function in patients with severe congestive heart failure.
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas. part 1: female sex steroid receptors and their significance as specific markers for adjuvant medical therapy. female sex steroid receptors were examined in 50 human cerebral meningiomas. for estrogen receptors, high-affinity binding sites (dissociation constant (kd): 0.05 to 0.2 nm) were found in the cytosolic fraction with a capacity of less than 4 fmol/mg protein in 10 meningiomas using a dextran-coated charcoal (dcc) assay. in the same cytosolic fraction, the solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed only one cytosol with a positive colorimetric reaction equal to 5 fmol/mg protein. however, in the nuclear compartment, none of the tumors stained positively for estrogen receptors with immunohistochemical techniques. in addition, the most convincing evidence for the absence of estrogen receptors was obtained by in situ hybridization using an oligonucleotide probe complementary to a fraction of the human receptor messenger ribonucleic acid (mrna). in none of the 50 meningiomas was the expression of estrogen mrna coding for the estrogen receptor detected. for progesterone receptors, high-affinity binding sites (kd: 0.3 to 2.6 nm) were found in 49 of the 50 tumors using a dcc assay. in the same cytosols, solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed that each tumor was positive for progesterone receptors. however, in the nuclear compartment, only five tumors had partially positive staining for progesterone receptors with immunohistochemical techniques. within the confines of this study, it is concluded that: 1) the estrogen receptor is generally absent in meningioma tissue, and 2) the progesterone receptor is mainly absent in the nuclear compartment, leading to the conclusion that the cytosolic progesterone receptor may be an inactive form. this study suggests that female sex steroid receptors are not primarily involved in the proliferative rate of cerebral meningiomas and that they are of no current significance as markers for adjuvant medical therapy of most meningiomas.
pseudopsammomatous meningioma with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen: a true secretory meningioma. case report. a sphenoid-wing meningioma in a 60-year-old woman was accompanied by elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) levels, which returned to normal after removal of the tumor. light microscopic examination revealed a secretory meningioma containing numerous pseudopsammoma bodies and a prominent vascular pattern. immunohistochemical analysis showed the tumor cells and pseudopsammoma bodies to be cea-positive. this case illustrates the possibility that secretory meningioma may be associated with clinically detectable secretion of cea. the report also documents the rare occurrence of elevated serum cea in a primary benign intracranial tumor.
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy. we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls (group c, n = 11), diabetic patients (group d, n = 8), and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy (group dn, n = 6) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states. by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner, peak systolic velocity, peak diastolic forward velocity, end-diastolic forward velocity, and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal. the vessels' diameters in centimeters were also measured. after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients. the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery (0.7 cm) and celiac artery (0.8 cm) did not change. flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal. in the control group, peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38%, peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66%, and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70%. in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15%, 98%, and 100%, respectively. these changes were statistically significant (p less than 0.01). on the other hand, the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities. moreover, this alteration in blood flow velocity, although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina, did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning.
spongiform encephalopathy transmitted experimentally from creutzfeldt-jakob and familial gerstmann-straussler-scheinker diseases. a comparison was made of the effects of experimental intracerebral inoculation into marmosets of brain homogenates from a case of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) and from a member of the wo. family with cerebral amyloid and spongiform encephalopathy--the gerstmann-straussler-scheinker (gss) syndrome. all the inoculated marmosets developed spongiform encephalopathy (se) after incubation times of 20-23 months in the cjd group and 25-32 months in the gss group. subsequent passage from 1 affected animal in each group resulted in se developing after 17 months incubation. in every animal inoculated with cjd or gss material and in the 2 passage experiments the most severely affected region of the brain was the thalamus which in all cases was almost totally occupied by vacuoles. other grey matter masses were less severely and less consistently affected. vacuolation was observed in the cerebellar granule cell layer as well as in the molecular layer and the brain stem was finely vacuolated in all cases. there were only minor and inconsistent differences between the disease transmitted from cjd compared with gss and some differences between the original transmissions and the se caused by passaged inocula. severe astrocytic gliosis accompanied the spongiform changes but no amyloid was identified in any of the marmosets with experimentally transmitted disease. the pathogenesis of the spongiform change in the thalamus was studied in a series of marmosets by light and electron microscopy 3-22 months after the intracerebral inoculation of cjd or gss homogenates and was compared with controls. dilated irregularly-shaped cisternae and the large complex vacuoles typical of se, present in abundance after 18 and 22 months incubation, were considered most probably to be derived from cisternae of neuronal smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
six years' audit of laboratory workload and rates of referral for colposcopy in a cervical screening programme in three districts objective--to determine laboratory workload and rates of referral for colposcopy in a three district cervical screening programme during 1983-9 to assess the feasibility of accommodating call up of all women at risk, recall at three year intervals (now five year intervals), and investigation of women with all degrees of abnormality. design--analysis of computerised screening histories dating back to 1977 of women screened in the avon cervical screening programme. setting--three district health authorities covering the population of bristol and weston-super-mare, comprising 800,000 people, of whom 250,000 were female residents aged 20 to 64. subjects--196,977 women aged 20 to 64 screened in cervical screening programme since 1983. results--laboratory workload devoted to follow up of women with abnormalities increased sharply between 1987-8 and 1988-9, with increases of 54% (from 2075 to 3196) in the number of smears for follow up of severe dyskaryosis and invasive cancer, 40% (from 1925 to 2695) for mild and moderate dyskaryosis, and 49% (from 1793 to 2677) for borderline change. the increases were partly explained by the introduction in april 1988 of protocols for follow up and investigation based on guidance in an intercollegiate working party report. the proportion of women with mild and moderate dyskaryosis who were recommended for referral for colposcopy increased steadily from 9.9% in 1983-4 to 79.9% in 1988-9, and for borderline change the proportions were 3.5% and 13.6% respectively. of all women tested in 1988-9, referral for colposcopy was recommended in 3%. conclusions--the increase in laboratory follow up work identified, if it continued, could result in half of existing laboratory capacity in avon being devoted to follow up work by 1993, with little prospect of maintaining call, recall, and quality control. investigation of all women with minor cytological abnormalities is neither justifiable nor sustainable and will undermine the benefits of screening by increasing the rate of false positive results and the financial costs.
the relationship between bone morphogenetic protein and neoplastic bone diseases. the monoclonal antibody against bovine bone morphogenetic protein was used for demonstration of bone morphogenetic protein (bmp) in neoplastic bone diseases. the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method demonstrated that bmp mainly exists in the cytoplasm of tumor cells of osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma. immunostaining showed that a majority of osteosarcomas and all of the chondrosarcoma cells contained a large quantity of bmp. conversely, none of the fibrosarcomas showed positive staining. thus, it was possible to differentiate osteosarcomas from fibrosarcomas by immunostaining. in fibrous dysplasia of bone, bmp was abundant in the fibrocellular tissue that had osteogenic activity. in contrast, fibrous tissue of ossifying fibroma showed weak positive staining; only the osteoblasts rimming the bone showed a positive reaction. immunostaining showed that bmp was also detected in other neoplastic bone diseases such as osteoma, chondroma, and other tumors.
effect of nicardipine on somatosensory evoked potentials in patients with acute cerebral infarction. we evaluated the effect of nicardipine, a calcium channel blocker, on somatosensory evoked potentials (sep) in 26 patients with acute cerebral infarction. post treatment, 58% (15/26) of the n20 and p25 latencies were prolonged in the affected hemispheres; 8% (2/26) were shortened; and 35% (9/26) did not change. the mean n20 and p25 latencies were significantly prolonged two hours post treatment in the affected hemisphere (n20, p less than 0.01, p25 p less than 0.01). nicardipine (ni) had no effect on sep components in the intact hemispheres. seventy five per cent of the 12 patients with hypertension had a decrease in blood pressure (bp) after taking nicardipine, but there were no undesirable side effects or worsening of neurological signs. our study demonstrates that nicardipine prolongs the latencies of short-latency components of sep in the affected hemisphere after acute ischaemic stroke and also decreases bp. these observations suggest that nicardipine therapy might impair neuronal function in the ischaemic zone.
retinal sensitivity in acute hypoglycemia. we measured retinal threshold sensitivity via automated computerized static perimetry in predetermined meridians in euglycemic diabetic subjects and in the same subjects during insulin-induced hypoglycemia. during periods of reduced blood glucose levels, decreased retinal sensitivity, most marked in temporal meridians, was observed.
indomethacin responsive hypercalcaemia associated with a renal sarcoma. an infant presented with a non-metastatic renal spindle cell sarcoma and hypercalcaemia, which resolved after treatment with indomethacin. there was in vivo and in vitro evidence that hypercalcaemia was mediated by circulatory prostaglandins.
techniques of adjustable suture strabismus surgery. adjustable sutures allow eye muscle positions to be changed following strabismus surgery, when the patient is awake and able to cooperate in muscle balance testing. bow-tie-knot and sliding-handle sutures can be adjusted within 24 hours after surgery. scleral traction sutures, which can be used to fix the globe to periorbital tissues during postoperative healing, can be adjusted for up to 14 days after surgery. we describe these techniques as well as an adjustable loop suture for conjunctival closure.
management of hypertension and cardiovascular risk. blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients is a surrogate for the real therapeutic goal of reducing the risks consequent to hypertension. this surrogate is convenient but its use may have important therapeutic implications. results of treatment with new antihypertensive agents, data from clinical trials, and insights into underlying mechanisms are reviewed. the overall success of antihypertensive therapy has been undeniable, but has reduced minimally the frequency of atherosclerosis and coronary events; metabolic disarray resulting from the agents used, especially thiazides and beta blockers, may have contributed to this. electrolyte abnormalities predispose to malignant arrhythmias and sudden death during myocardial infarction. left ventricular hypertrophy, a chief risk factor for coronary events, arrhythmias, and heart failure, responds selectively to antihypertensive agents. similarly, progression of renal injury may be sensitive to the agents used. obesity and hypertension frequently coexist. evidence is growing that atherogenic abnormalities common in obese patients, such as insulin resistance, also occur in the nonobese patient and are sensitive to the antihypertensive agent selected.
diphenylhydantoin-induced hypogammaglobulinemia in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus. a case is reported of reversible panhypogammaglobulinemia in a human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patient. onset and resolution were temporally correlated with initiation and termination, respectively, of diphenylhydantoin therapy for a possible seizure. a rapid alteration in peripheral t-cell subpopulations was also noted in association with diphenylhydantoin administration. this case is compared with previous reports of diphenylhydantoin-associated hypogammaglobulinemia in non-hiv-infected patients. in addition, the case is discussed with regard to possible deleterious effects associated with the use of diphenylhydantoin as therapy for hiv-associated seizures or as an antiretroviral agent in hiv disease.
platysma myocutaneous flap for repair of hypopharyngeal strictures. hypopharyngeal strictures, either isolated or in conjunction with laryngeal and esophageal strictures, can occur following lye ingestion. extensive stricture formation requires reconstruction to create a functional funnel system that empties below the cricoid. esophageal replacement is not a substitute for adequate hypopharyngeal reconstruction. the pectoralis major muscle is often inadequate, because it yields too much bulk and often leads to continued aspiration. the platysma myocutaneous flap for hypopharyngeal reconstruction has not been previously reported. the inferiorly based platysma myocutaneous flap was used in two of our patients with lye burns, and bilateral superiorly based flaps were used in one. all are able to eat normally and have no significant stenosis. the platysma myocutaneous flap is a relatively simple and reliable alternative that is within the capability of every head and neck surgeon.
hydromyelic hydrocephalus. correlation of hydromyelia with various stages of hydrocephalus in postshunt isolated compartments. the clinical features and pathophysiology of specific forms of hydromyelia are analyzed in this report together with the chronological changes of associated hydrocephalus. nine patients were studied; all had hydromyelia with varying degrees of associated hydrocephalus. clinically applicable classification systems were used to evaluate the progression of hydrocephalus (stages i to iv) and to define the compartment isolated after shunting in the previously communicating cerebral ventricles (types i to iv). four patients had stage iv disease (holoneural canal dilatation); one had stage ii and four had stage i disease (both stages i and ii with supratentorial hydrocephalus). all patients were initially treated by ventriculoperitoneal shunting at an average age of 9.9 years. five patients had progressive spinal symptoms before or after treatment of their hydrocephalus. two patients had type iii isolation (an isolated rhombencephalic ventricle) with a functioning ventricular shunt; ventriculography confirmed a communication between the fourth ventricle and the hydromyelia, and both patients improved after placement of a shunt in the fourth ventricle. the remaining patients had type iv isolation (isolated central canal dilatation) with a functioning ventricular shunt. this study indicates that in some cases the pathophysiology of hydromyelia is closely related to associated hydrocephalus. a new concept of the development of an isolated compartment after shunting is proposed to explain the progression of hydromyelia in these cases.
orchiectomy versus oestrogen in the treatment of advanced prostatic cancer. the primary clinical efficacy of orchiectomy and the combination therapy of intramuscular polyoestradiol phosphate 80 mg monthly and oral ethinyl oestradiol 0.15 mg daily was evaluated by progression and cancer mortality rates in a series of 277 prostatic cancer patients representing part of the finnprostate study. after a follow-up of 5 years there was a significant difference between the groups in terms of progression rate and prostatic cancer deaths. the oestrogen combination was more effective in delaying progression of the disease. the overall mortality rate was similar in both groups. about one-third of the patients were alive after 5 years.
mitral valve prolapse. when is it serious? mitral valve prolapse can best be diagnosed with careful clinical evaluation, including dynamic auscultation. treatment consists of reassurance, pharmacotherapy for troublesome symptoms, and careful monitoring for signs of complications. most complications can be either prevented or treated.
afibrinogenemia and hypobetalipoproteinemia in a kindred. a 3-year-old boy with minor bleeding problems had no plasma fibrinogen measured by both clottable assay and immuno-precipitation. low normal fibrinogen levels were present in the mother and father. markedly decreased plasma cholesterol and apolipoprotein b levels were found in the father, proband's brother, and the paternal side of the kindred. the proband and his mother had normal plasma total cholesterol and apolipoprotein b levels. these findings are compatible with autosomal dominant transmission of hypobetalipoproteinemia and autosomal recessive transmission of afibrinogenemia. two members of the father's family had plasma cholesterol levels below the fifth percentile but elevated levels of fibrinogen (6.0 and 4.4 g/l). both have symptomatic coronary heart disease. finding coronary heart disease with very low cholesterol but elevated fibrinogen levels is consistent with fibrinogen levels being an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease.
chylothorax as presenting manifestation of adenocarcinoma with probable gastric primary. chylothorax is an unusual complication of various malignant neoplasms, generally lymphomas. the few reported cases of chylothorax with gastric and other abdominal malignancies have involved large abdominal masses with prominent adenopathy and chylous ascites. we describe a patient in whom chylothorax was the presenting manifestation of an adenocarcinoma with probable gastric primary, developing prior to any clinical or radiologic evidence of tumor.
biliary and gut function following shock. the aim of this study was to characterize the alterations in gallbladder and intestinal function after hemorrhagic shock and blood reperfusion in opossums. animals were subjected to a shock of 30 mm hg of arterial blood pressure for 60 minutes and resuscitated with blood reinfusion. gallbladder epithelial ion transport, gallbladder motility in vitro and in vivo, gastrointestinal motility, and flora of the stomach and small bowel were studied 2 and 24 hours after shock. changes at 2 hours included decreased gallbladder contractility in vitro and decreased emptying in vivo, loss of coordination with intestinal motor activity, decrease in frequency of intestinal electrical slow waves, and reduced duration of the intestinal migrating motor complex cycle. by 24 hours, gallbladder epithelial permeability was increased and in vitro contractility remained reduced but the in vivo functions showed partial recovery. gastrointestinal flora was not affected by these changes. these data demonstrate that hemorrhagic shock and reperfusion affect digestive motility. the early timing of the alterations observed and the partial recovery 24 hours post shock suggest an ischemia-hypoxia mechanism of injury.
giant hemangioma of the liver with pain, fever, and abnormal liver tests. report of two cases. in conclusion, we report the cases of two patients with large hemangiomas of the liver, abdominal pain, increased esr and fibrinogen, increased serum alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase activity, and normal white blood cell counts. clinical and biochemical abnormalities disappeared after surgical resection. increased esr and fibrinogen are probably related to thrombosis within the tumor. this mode of presentation may suggest a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.
nausea, vomiting, and retching. although nausea, vomiting, and retching have plagued mankind since antiquity, limited attention has been given to the three symptoms as separate entities. although knowledge of symptom occurrence is essential to practice, nurses must focus on patients' response or distress to the occurrence of symptoms. the differentiation of symptom occurrence and symptom distress of nausea, vomiting, and retching is critical to the management and self-care demands of patients and the enhancement of their quality of life. basic research on patterns of these individual symptoms and their components promises to provide a more progressive and fruitful approach to the patient response to these symptoms.
fungal meningitis. fungal meningitis tends to be a subacute or chronic process; however, it may be just as lethal as bacterial meningitis if untreated. there are many similarities between the pathogenic fungi. most of the fungi are aerosolized and inhaled, and initiate a primary pulmonary infection which is usually self-limited. hematogenous dissemination may follow the initial infection, with subsequent involvement of the cns. rarely, trauma or local extension provides the route to cns infection. the host is frequently, although not always, immunosuppressed. the hyphae of molds generally cause focal disease with hemorrhagic necrosis secondary to vascular thrombosis. the yeasts tend to cause a more diffuse process with the base of the brain being primarily affected, such that hydrocephalus is seen as a frequent complication of chronic disease. diagnosis may be difficult, as the csf may be normal, with negative smears and sterile cultures, although more often there is at least one abnormality indicating disease. serologies (if available, depending on the fungus) may point towards the proper diagnosis, as may a careful travel history. currently, amphotericin b is still the drug of choice in most situations; however, the newer azole antifungal agents offer great promise, especially in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis. the precise role of such agents will remain unclear until appropriate large-scale studies of their effectiveness have been completed. the treatment of the unusual cns mycoses will continue to be based on clinical experience, and reports of the use of new azoles in these diseases need to be critically evaluated.
malignant melanoma and pigmented lesions: a diagnostic and management dilemma. we document two cases of malignancy occurring at the site of partially removed benign nevi. because of the difficulty in clinical diagnosis and the uncertainty in its behavior, we propose that any recurring melanocytic nevus expanding beyond the original surgical scar be re-excised and the specimen carefully analyzed to ensure complete removal.
safe performance of difficult laparoscopic cholecystectomies. laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been advocated for the treatment of uncomplicated symptomatic gallstone disease, but has not been widely advocated for the management of more complicated gallbladder disease such as acute cholecystitis, previous surgery, or common duct stones. during the last 9 months, 360 patients underwent laparoscopic removal of their gallbladder. a total of 138 had a complicated presentation, making surgery more difficult. this article discusses the management of these patients with acute cholecystitis, previous surgery, or common duct disease. using the described techniques, there were no complications or mortality. laparoscopic management of difficult gallbladder problems is safe and effective.
prognostic importance of the serum magnesium concentration in patients with congestive heart failure. magnesium abnormalities are common in patients with congestive heart failure but the clinical and prognostic significance of an abnormal serum magnesium concentration in this disorder has not been investigated. therefore, the relation between serum magnesium concentration and the clinical characteristics and long-term outcome of 199 patients with chronic heart failure was evaluated. the serum magnesium concentration was less than 1.6 meq/liter in 38 patients (19%), within the normal range in 134 patients (67%) and greater than 2.1 meq/liter in 27 patients (14%). patients with hypomagnesemia had more frequent ventricular premature complexes and episodes of ventricular tachycardia than did patients with a normal serum magnesium concentration (p less than 0.05). even though the two groups were similar with respect to severity of heart failure and neurohormonal variables, patients with a low serum magnesium concentration had a significantly worse prognosis during long-term follow-up (45% versus 71% 1 year survival, p less than 0.05). patients with hypermagnesemia had more severe symptoms, greater neurohormonal activation and worse renal function than did patients with a normal serum magnesium concentration but tended to have fewer ventricular arrhythmias. hypermagnesemic patients had a worse prognosis than did those with a normal magnesium concentration (37% versus 71% 1 year survival, p less than 0.05). in conclusion, the measurement of serum magnesium concentration provides important clinical and prognostic information in patients with chronic heart failure.
cardiovascular and hormonal effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide in congestive heart failure. the effects of infusing human alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide were studied in eight patients with congestive heart failure, five normal rabbits and five rabbits with adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy. in patients with heart failure, calcitonin gene-related peptide caused a dose-dependent increase in cardiac output and decrease in pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary artery pressure. the systemic blood pressure and right atrial and pulmonary wedge pressures decreased only at the highest infusion rate (16 ng/kg per min). heart rate remained unchanged. plasma epinephrine increased (p less than 0.05), whereas aldosterone, atrial natriuretic peptide and prolactin concentrations decreased (p less than 0.05). plasma norepinephrine, renin activity, cortisol and growth hormone concentrations remained unchanged. in both groups of rabbits, the drug decreased blood pressure and increased cardiac output and heart rate. there was a significant increase in renal blood flow (p less than 0.05). the peptide did not affect the contraction amplitude of human and rabbit ventricular myocytes. these findings suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide is a vasodilator in the rabbit and humans with little direct effect on ventricular myocardium. this peptide may be useful in some forms of heart failure.
white matter hyperintensities in dementia of alzheimer's type and in healthy subjects without cerebrovascular risk factors. a magnetic resonance imaging study. t2-weighted (0.5 t) magnetic resonance images were used to study the prevalence of subcortical white matter hyperintensities (wmhis) in 22 patients with dementia of alzheimer's type (dat), 20 age-matched older healthy control subjects, and 10 younger healthy control subjects. exclusionary criteria for all groups included cerebrovascular risk factors. all subjects had hachinski ischemic index scores of less than 2 and computed tomographic scans showing no infarct. the wmhis were classified as periventricular wmhis or deep wmhis and graded 0 through 3 (0 indicated absent, and 3, severe). for the group with dat and older control subjects, periventricular wmhis and deep wmhis were graded 2 or 3 in fewer than 17% and 27% of subjects, respectively, whereas in the younger control subjects, all ratings were grade 1 or less. serum cholesterol and systolic blood pressure values, although within the normal range, were elevated significantly in older control subjects when compared with those in younger control subjects. no significant differences in wmhi ratings, blood pressure, cholesterol, or triglyceride levels were found between patients with dat and age-matched control subjects. systolic blood pressure levels correlated with the severity of periventricular wmhis only in older control subjects. age correlated with periventricular wmhis and deep wmhis within both the older control subjects and the patients with dat. there was no significant correlation between wmhis and the severity of dementia in the group with dat. these results suggest that, in subjects screened for cerebrovascular risk factors, wmhis are rare and occur with identical frequency in patients with dat as in age-matched healthy control subjects.
unusual presentation of recurrent wegener's granulomatosis. a 65-year-old woman presented with recurrent wegener's granulomatosis following two years of immunosuppressive therapy and three years of complete remission. at her initial presentation, she had a characteristic x-ray picture showing multiple nodules with total resolution of these findings at three months. five years later, at the time of clinical relapse, her chest x-ray film showed bilateral diffuse infiltrative disease. this change in radiologic presentation upon relapse of wegener's has not previously been reported. other unusual features include diffuse infiltrates as the pulmonary presentation and the long interval between cessation of therapy and relapse. we review the radiologic manifestations of wegener's granulomatosis.
whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis? short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease. we present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years. short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and, in some cases, with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits. we think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate.
ventricular ectopy: significance and management. ventricular ectopy is a normal variant of cardiac rhythm, and its significance in an individual is related to cardiac risk factors and the presence or absence of heart disease. although there is good evidence in many forms of heart disease that complex vebs indicate a high risk of death, treatment of asymptomatic vebs with antiarrhythmic drugs has not been shown to improve survival and may be hazardous. treatment should be directed at the underlying heart disease. those with heart disease and severe symptoms resulting from vebs will often require electrophysiological assessment as to specific antiarrhythmic therapy. those without heart disease can usually be managed by reassurance and do not require antiarrhythmic drugs.
turner's syndrome, fibromuscular dysplasia, and stroke. we report a 43-year-old woman who presented with a right frontoparietotemporal ischemic stroke. she had been diagnosed with turner's syndrome during childhood and had a history of chronic estrogen therapy. cerebral angiography showed lesions characteristics of fibromuscular dysplasia involving the right internal carotid and right vertebral arteries. we are not aware of any previous reports describing an association between fibromuscular dysplasia and turner's syndrome. although chronic estrogen therapy cannot be ruled out as a cause of this patient's stroke, we suggest a possible etiologic relation between these two entities.
evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma aggressiveness by a panel of extracellular matrix antigens. invasion and metastasis requires a series of interactions between malignant cells and the extracellular matrix (ecm). antigen markers that relate to these interactions were evaluated for prognostic correlation in human hepatocellular carcinoma. basement membrane type iv collagen (civ), type iv collagenase (civase), laminin, and laminin receptors (lrs)--all ecm antigens previously proposed to be modulated in association with tumor aggressiveness--were immunohistochemically investigated in 30 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs). the pattern of antigen expression was correlated with 1) 36 months' clinical follow-up and 2) the pathologic grade. as a means of estimating the proliferation fraction, an additional antigen, ki67, was also studied in this series. there were major differences in the distribution of civ and laminin, and in the quantity of civase-, lr-, and ki67-positive cells associated with grade and prognosis. a smaller quantity of civ and laminin and a higher number of civase-, lr-, and ki67-positive cells were detected in the poorly differentiated compared with the well-differentiated hccs. the tumors with lower immunoreactivity for civ and laminin components accompanied by a higher number of civase-, lr-, and ki67-positive cells fall into a group with the poorest overall survival (p less than 0.006). the panel of antigens is proposed as a useful prognostic tool for evaluating hcc tumor aggressiveness.
double-blind comparison of topical lignocaine-prilocaine cream (emla) and lignocaine infiltration for arterial cannulation in adults. in a double-blind, double-dummy study, the efficacy of topical 5% emla cream was compared with that of lignocaine infiltration in alleviating the pain of arterial cannulation. forty unpremedicated adults were allocated randomly to four groups to receive emla cream alone, emla and 0.9% saline infiltration, emla and 1% lignocaine infiltration or placebo cream and 1% lignocaine infiltration. following arterial cannulation, pain was assessed by the patient using a visual analogue score and by an independent observer using a four-category verbal rating score. significantly lower pain scores were observed in all patients receiving emla compared with those receiving placebo cream and lignocaine infiltration by both patient (p less than 0.01) and observer (p less than 0.001) assessments. there were no significant differences between the three emla groups.
effects of brief coronary occlusion and reperfusion on porcine coronary artery reactivity. the loss of coronary vasodilator reserve after ischemia-reperfusion may be due to endothelial injury, and this vascular dysfunction may contribute to functional alterations observed after ischemia. to determine whether endothelial dysfunction occurs after relatively brief periods of moderate low-flow ischemia in vivo, open-chest swine were subjected to 15 minutes of critical, subtotal left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion (80%) followed by 60 minutes of reperfusion. serial measurements of regional coronary flow were made with the radiolabeled microsphere technique. after 60 minutes of reperfusion, the left anterior descending coronary artery was excised together with a section of the normally perfused left circumflex coronary artery to examine in vitro the relaxations to the endothelium-dependent dilators adp and bradykinin and to the endothelial-independent dilators sodium nitroprusside and adenosine. contractions to serotonin in quiescent rings were also examined. endocardial and transmural blood flows recovered to preocclusion levels within 60 minutes of reperfusion, as did the epicardial-to-endocardial ratio. vascular responses in isolated, reperfused left anterior descending coronary artery rings were significantly different from responses in control left circumflex coronary artery rings. endothelium-dependent relaxations to adenosine diphosphate and bradykinin were significantly depressed in the left anterior descending coronary artery rings compared with left circumflex coronary artery rings (p less than 0.05). serotonin-induced contractions were significantly greater in occluded-reperfused left anterior descending than in left circumflex coronary arteries (p less than 0.05). relaxations to adenosine and sodium nitroprusside were not significantly different between the two groups.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xxiii. deleterious effects of simulated thrombolysis preceding simulated coronary artery bypass grafting with controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion. this study tests whether simulated thrombolysis before controlled reperfusion (i.e., simulated coronary artery bypass) causes reperfusion injury that obviates the benefits of subsequent controlled reperfusion and results in unnecessary ventricular arrhythmias. fifteen dogs underwent acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. in 10 dogs we simulated thrombolysis after 1 hour of ischemia (delivering 10% to 15% of control flow at 5 ml/min), followed 1 hour later by either normal blood reperfusion at systemic pressure (to simulate percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) in five dogs or regionally controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass in five others to simulate coronary bypass. in five dogs ischemia was prolonged to 2 hours, and the initial reperfusate was blood cardioplegic solution on total vented bypass (to simulate primary coronary bypass). all hearts receiving simulated thrombolysis (100%) after 1 hour of ischemia had reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation. all hearts treated by simulated angioplasty recovered regional contractility (56% of control systolic shortening), whereas there was no (0%) recovery of spontaneous contractility after subsequent blood cardioplegic reperfusion, and only two (40%) dogs had contractile reserve capacity (6% +/- 49%). conversely, surgically controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion without preceding low-flow normal blood reperfusion after 2 hours of ischemia resulted in no ventricular arrhythmias (0%; p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis), 72% +/- 7% (p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis) recovery of regional contractility (ultrasonic crystals), and 114% +/- 11% (p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis) recovery of contractile reserve with calcium chloride stimulation. we conclude that controlled reperfusion (simulating coronary artery bypass) with blood cardioplegic solution produces immediate functional recovery and avoids the ventricular fibrillation that follows simulated thrombolysis despite the need for prolonged ischemic time. preceding controlled reperfusion by normal blood reperfusion (simulated thrombolysis) shortens the ischemic time but nullifies immediate functional recovery possible by simulated coronary bypass and produces unnecessary arrhythmias.
complete jejunoileal necrosis due to torsion of the superior mesenteric artery. we have reported a case of small-bowel volvulus in which complete jejunoileal necrosis resulted from torsion of the superior mesenteric artery. this case was unusual not only because of the extent of necrosis but also because primary small-bowel volvulus is rare in adults. despite nearly total small-bowel resection, the patient continues to do well 6 months postoperatively.
cardiac arrest due to spontaneous coronary artery dissection in a patient with coronary ectasia--a case report. spontaneous coronary artery dissection is a rare event and only in a few patients has the diagnosis been angiographically confirmed during life. a spontaneous dissection of the right coronary artery was detected as a cause of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in a patient with coronary artery ectasia.
reproduction of transfusion-related acute lung injury in an ex vivo lung model leukoagglutinins are implicated in transfusion-related acute lung injury (trali). in the present study, severe lung vascular leakage was reproduced by application of a leukoagglutinating antibody of anti-5b specificity in an ex vivo lung model. the antibody originated from a multiparous donor-plasma, observed to cause noncardiogenic edema during transfusion therapy. heated full plasma (anti-5b-titer 1/128) or purified immunoglobulin g fraction was used for the studies. ex vivo isolated rabbit lungs were perfused with albumin buffer, and human granulocytes (pmn) were admixed to the recirculating perfusate. in presence of anti-5b antibody plus 5b-positive pmn plus rabbit plasma as complement-source, severe lung edema occurred after a latent period of 3 to 6 hours. pulmonary artery pressure was only transiently and moderately increased, and the leakage reaction could be traced back to a several-fold increase in lung vascular permeability. in contrast, no vascular leakage was noted in lungs perfused in the absence of anti-5b antibody, pmn, or rabbit plasma. moreover, no permeability increase occurred on use of 5b-negative pmn. this reproduction of trali in an ex vivo lung model corroborates the role of leukoagglutinating antibodies in initiating pmn-dependent respiratory distress and suggests a contribution of concomitant complement activation.
failure of hepatitis b immunization in liver transplant recipients: results of a prospective trial. twenty patients with advanced liver disease, in need of transplantation, were given three injections of 20 micrograms and three injections of 40 micrograms hepatitis b vaccine to see if an antibody response could be obtained. only 20% of patients developed measurable anti-hbs. one who failed to develop anti-hbs developed chronic hepatitis b after exposure to her infected sexual partner. type of liver disease in the native liver, age, sex, sexual preference, timing of immunization (before or after transplantation), and dosage of hepatitis b vaccine did not seem to explain the lack of immunologic response to hepatitis b vaccine. it is presumed that immunosuppression, both from the underlying disease and from immunosuppressive medications, best explains our findings. liver transplantation patients infrequently benefit from hepatitis b vaccine. it is possible that other vaccines given to prevent viral and bacterial illness may also fail to elicit immunologic response in such patients.
pathological observations of intrahepatic peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers. iii. survey of necroinflammation and cystic dilatation. pathological changes and significance of intrahepatic peribiliary glands, hitherto poorly recognized intrahepatic elements, have been evaluated in our laboratory. in this report, we surveyed necroinflammatory and cystic changes of the peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers because these two changes coexisted frequently in the same liver. the necroinflammatory change was found in 228 livers (22.8%) and the cystic change in 202 livers (20.2%), and 103 cases showed both changes in the same liver. the necroinflammatory change was frequently found in intrahepatic cholangitis and extrahepatic biliary obstruction with bacterial infection, suggesting that biliary bacterial inflammation extends into these peribilary glands. this change was also frequent in systemic infection or septicemia without biliary bacterial infection, implying that the peribiliary glands were also damaged in such conditions without direct infection. the cystic change was frequent in livers with portal hypertension or obstruction, adult polycystic disease and necroinflammation of the glands, suggesting that the cystic change of the glands could occur as the result of the disturbance of intrahepatic circulation or as the result of inflammatory destruction of the glandular conduits. some of peribiliary cysts may be of congenital origin. dysfunction related to these pathological changes in the glands may diminish seromucous secretion and cause alterations in hepatic bile composition. the cystic change of the glands may retard bile flow by compressing bile duct lumina.
hyperresponsiveness of the extrathoracic airway in patients with captopril-induced cough it has been suggested that cough from captopril may originate from an increased sensitivity of receptors in the extrathoracic airway (ea). to explore this hypothesis, we assessed the responsiveness of ea and bronchi and the cough sensitivity to inhaled histamine in nine hypertensive patients with captopril-induced cough (group 1) during treatment and one month after withdrawal of the drug treatment. nine patients who were asymptomatic while receiving captopril (group 2) and nine patients receiving no current treatment (group 3) served as controls. the ea responsiveness was assessed by using the maximal midinspiratory flow (mif50) as an arbitrary index of ea constriction and was expressed as the histamine concentration causing a 25 percent decrease in mif50 (pc25mif50). pc15fev1 was the index of bronchial responsiveness and pccough (dose causing five or more coughs) was that of cough sensitivity. airway hyperresponsiveness (ea-hr or bhr) was diagnosed when pc25mif50 or pc15fev1 were 8 mg/ml or lower. patients with captopril-cough, as compared with controls, had significantly lower values of pc25mif50, pc15fev1, and pccough; ea-hr and bhr were found, respectively, in seven and three of these patients and in none of the control subjects. in all the patients of group 1, cough and ea-hr resolved after withdrawal of captopril treatment, while bhr persisted in one. pc25mif50, pc15fev1, and pccough were all significantly improved. our findings suggest that cough during captopril therapy may originate from receptors in the ea.
brain protection: physiological and pharmacological considerations. part i: the physiology of brain injury. ischaemia, whether focal or global in nature, produces a sequence of intracellular events leading to increased cell permeability to water and ions including ca++. there is a loss of cellular integrity and function, with increased production of prostaglandins, free radicals, and acidosis with lactate accumulation. these events may be exacerbated by glucose administration. pharmacological agents aimed at alleviating ischaemic injury could be directed at decreasing cerebral metabolic requirements for oxygen, improving flow to ischaemic areas, preventing ca+(+)-induced injury, inhibition of free radical formation, lactate removal, inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, and prevention of complement-mediated leukocyte aggregation. part i of this paper describes some of the pathophysiological events leading to ischaemic brain injury. part 2 of this paper will consider the current agents available for brain protection.
nerve-muscle involvement in a large family with mitochondrial cytopathy: electrophysiological studies. thirteen patients with mitochondrial cytopathy were investigated. they represent different generations, ages, stages, and severities of the disease. all were assumed to have the same metabolic defect. the disease is a multisystem disorder with a metabolic defect located at complex 1 in the respiratory chain. clinically, the disorder gives symptoms such as hearing loss, retinal pigmental degeneration, ataxia, cardiomyopathy, muscular fatiguability and neuropathy. the patients were investigated with nerve conduction studies, concentric needle emg, sfemg, and macro emg examinations. neurophysiologic studies revealed signs of myopathy in both the younger members and in those with slight muscular symptoms. in the more advanced stages, neuropathic changes of the axonal type were seen as well. macro emg was interpreted as indicating muscle fiber membrane abnormalities in the early stages. single fiber emg studies indicate that this metabolic defect does not disturb neuromuscular transmission.
intraocular pressure increases with fenoldopam, but not nitroprusside, in hypertensive humans. fenoldopam mesylate stimulates adenyl cyclase in porcine ocular trabecular meshwork and raises intraocular pressure in humans. to clarify whether this results from direct activation of the dopamine-1 receptor or indirectly from baroreflex sympathetic stimulation after blood pressure reduction, intraocular pressure was measured in 14 patients with accelerated/malignant hypertension, randomized between intravenous fenoldopam or sodium nitroprusside. intraocular pressure was measured with a perkins tonometer, before and at the twentieth minute of each dose increment. in seven patients with a mean blood pressure of 232/131 mm hg treated with fenoldopam, intraocular pressure increased in a dose-dependent fashion, from 16 +/- 1 to 20 +/- 2 mm hg (p less than 0.005). in contrast, seven patients with a mean blood pressure of 225/134 mm hg treated with sodium nitroprusside exhibited no change in intraocular pressure (15 +/- 1 versus 14 +/- 1 mm hg) despite similar blood pressure reduction. increases in heart rate were not significantly different. rates of urinary excretion of norepinephrine plus epinephrine increased significantly relative to baseline (p less than 0.05) but were not different between groups. these data suggest that the increase in intraocular pressure with fenoldopam results from specific activation of the dopamine-1 receptor and is not caused by baroreflex sympathetic stimulation. because dopamine-1 receptors may modulate intraocular pressure, dopamine-1 receptor blockers might be useful therapy for glaucoma.
the prevalence of retinal vascular abnormalities in children and adolescents with essential hypertension. we studied 97 children and adolescents with essential hypertension by evaluating photographs of the optic fundus and fluorescein angiography. photographs were examined for the presence of arteriolar narrowing, tortuosity, and arteriovenous nicking. intraobserver and interobserver variability in determination of abnormalities was low with agreement of 75% for narrowing, 90% for tortuosity, and 100% for arteriovenous nicking. the prevalence of abnormalities was 41% (95% confidence interval, 31% to 50%) for arteriolar narrowing, 14% (95% confidence interval, 19% to 21%) for tortuosity, and 8% (95% confidence interval, 5% to 11%) for arteriovenous nicking. of 97 patients, 50 (51%) had one or more abnormality. retinal abnormalities are relatively common in young patients with essential hypertension.
importance of sampling method in dna analysis of lung cancer. lung carcinomas are characterised by considerable histological variation within the tumour. the possible effects of this morphological heterogeneity on the estimation of tumour ploidy were investigated. multiple tissue blocks were systematically taken from 20 lung tumours and analysed by flow cytometry. the routine, archival paraffin wax embedded diagnostic blocks from these cases were also analysed. nineteen (95%) of the tumours were shown to contain aneuploid stemlines by systematic sampling, but if only one of these systematic tissue blocks had been taken from each case the incidence of dna aneuploidy could have been as low as 45%. only 15 (75%) tumours were aneuploid when all the routine archival blocks were analysed, but by specifically selecting tumour areas from the archival material the accuracy of this method was increased to 90%. it is concluded that tumour sampling methods are of primary importance in assessing the dna content of lung tumours. routine paraffin wax embedded archival tissue provides a suitable source of material for this purpose, provided that "turnover" selection is carried out.
ondansetron: a new entity in emesis control. nausea and vomiting are serious problems for patients receiving cancer chemotherapy. dopamine receptor and cholinergic receptor antagonism have been the target mechanism for agents used to combat drug-induced nausea and vomiting; more recently, blockade of serotonin receptors has been used for this indication. current therapies are limited by extrapyramidal adverse effects, as well as drowsiness, sedation, respiratory depression, and cardiac effects. ondansetron is an investigational serotonin antagonist that has documented effectiveness for cancer chemotherapy-induced emesis. ondansetron appears to be well tolerated, with the possible exception of headaches and transient increases in liver enzymes. no extrapyramidal toxicities have been reported with this agent. while ondansetron looks promising, further studies are needed to fully define its role as an antiemetic.
visceral perception in health and functional dyspepsia. crossover study of gastric distension with placebo and domperidone. the symptoms of functional dyspepsia are still unexplained. to evaluate the possible role of abnormal visceral perception, we studied the symptomatic responses and the pressure variations during progressive gastric distension in 10 female healthy control subjects (mean age 33.6 years) and in 10 female patients with functional dyspepsia (mean age 35.2 years). a rubber balloon was positioned 4 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter (les) and inflated with progressively larger volumes of air by steps of 50 ml; pressures at the gastric fundus and at the les were continuously recorded by perfused manometric catheters. each subject was studied on two separate occasions after randomized double-blind administration of either placebo or 20 mg of domperidone. symptomatic responses and the manometric data were analyzed at the time of the initial recognition of distension (bloating step) and at the time of reporting pain or up to a maximum of 700 ml of balloon inflation (pain or 700-ml step). on placebo, the volumes of gastric distension were more than two times lower in patients than in control subjects at the bloating step (185 +/- 32 ml vs 470 +/- 40 ml, p = 0.001) and at the pain or 700-ml step (265 +/- 54 ml vs 600 +/- 34 ml, p less than 0.005), while the pressure gradients (pressure at inflation steps minus baseline pressure before beginning inflation) were not statistically different between the two groups.
histopathologic correlation of magnetic resonance imaging signal patterns in a spinal cord injury model. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) provides a noninvasive method of monitoring the pathologic response to spinal cord injury. specific mr signal intensity patterns appear to correlate with degrees of improvement in the neurologic status in spinal cord injury patients. histologic correlation of two types of mr signal intensity patterns are confirmed in the current study using a rat animal model. adult male sprague-dawley rats underwent spinal cord trauma at the midthoracic level using a weight-dropping technique. after laminectomy, 5- and 10-gm brass weights were dropped from designated heights onto a 0.1-gm impounder placed on the exposed dura. animals allowed to regain consciousness demonstrated variable recovery of hind limb paraplegia. magnetic resonance images were obtained from 2 hours to 1 week after injury using a 2-tesla mri/spectrometer. sacrifice under anesthesia was performed by perfusive fixation; spinal columns were excised en bloc, embedded, sectioned, and observed with the compound light microscope. magnetic resonance axial images obtained during the time sequence after injury demonstrate a distinct correlation between mr signal intensity patterns and the histologic appearance of the spinal cord. magnetic resonance imaging delineates the pathologic processes resulting from acute spinal cord injury and can be used to differentiate the type of injury and prognosis.
effective endothelialization of polyurethane surfaces. response to shear stress and platelet adhesion. biomer and mitrathane are thromboresistant polyurethane ureas that are suitable for coating artificial valves. degeneration of the surface coatings, however, does occur over time, and in experimental animal studies adherent thrombi have been observed as a complication. in this study, morphometric techniques applied to scanning electron microscopy were used to assess whether vascular endothelial cells harvested from jugular veins of fetal lambs could be grown to confluence on these polyurethane surfaces, whether the monolayer would remain intact under conditions of shear stress (104 dynes/cm2), and whether this would result in decreased platelet adherence of sheep platelets relative to nonendothelialized surfaces. the results have shown that both biomer and mitrathane could be endothelialized: 88.8 +/- 5.1% of the biomer surface consisted of intact confluent endothelial cells, as did 95.45 +/- 1.7% of the mitrathane surface. after 6 hr of shear stress, a significant reduction in this feature was observed (p = 0.02), but both materials still maintained a high percentage of confluent endothelial cells (78.65% for biomer and 85.58% for mitrathane). after 48 hr of shear stress, however, the percent confluence was similar to control values, which suggested new cell growth. endothelialized biomer compared with mitrathane had fewer adherent single platelets, or small or large aggregates (p = 0.001, p = 0.01, and p = 0.05, respectively); this feature was not affected by shear stress. whereas endothelialization of the surface clearly decreased platelet adherence on mitrathane (p = 0.01), only a trend was seen with biomer. these studies therefore show that endothelialization of these polyurethane surfaces is feasible.
"frontal lobe" utilization behavior associated with paramedian thalamic infarction. disinhibited, exaggerated responses to objects and environmental cues (utilization behavior) occur predominantly with frontal lobe damage. we report a striking example associated with paramedian thalamic infarction suggesting a thalamofrontal component to environmental interactions that require inhibition, self-monitoring, and cognitive flexibility.
ondansetron compared with high-dose metoclopramide in prophylaxis of acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, crossover study. objective: to compare the efficacy and side effects of ondansetron with those of high-dose metoclopramide in treating acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. design: randomized, double-blind, crossover trial. setting: conducted at two university hospitals, a cancer institute, and six community hospitals. patients: of 125 patients, 95 were evaluable for the acute phase and 79 for the delayed phase. major reasons for not being evaluable were no second course (14 patients), protocol violation (5 patients), and change in cisplatin dose (3 patients) for the acute phase, and rescue medication on day 1 (7 patients), protocol violation (3 patients), and inadequate data (4 patients) for the delayed phase. interventions: all patients received cisplatin, 50 to 100 mg/m2 body surface area (median, 75 mg/m2); none had previously received chemotherapy. thirty minutes before the cisplatin administration, ondansetron was given intravenously over 15 minutes, at a loading dose of 8 mg followed by a continuous infusion of 1 mg/h for 24 hours. metoclopramide was given at a loading dose of 3 mg/kg body weight, followed by a continuous infusion for 8 hours (4 mg/kg). for the delayed phase (days 2 through 6), the first oral dose was given as soon as the infusion was completed; the oral dose consisted of either metoclopramide, 20 mg three times daily, or ondansetron, 8 mg three times daily for another 5 days. measurements and main results: in the acute phase, a major or complete response was seen in 72% of the ondansetron-treated and 41% of the metoclopramide-treated patients (p less than 0.001). nausea was significantly better controlled among the ondansetron-treated patients (p = 0.04). in the delayed phase, no statistically significant difference was seen between ondansetron- and metoclopramide-treated patients. nausea was significantly better controlled with metoclopramide (p = 0.016). conclusions: ondansetron is significantly more effective than metoclopramide in preventing acute nausea and vomiting. in the delayed phase, the results of both drugs were disappointing, although metoclopramide's effect on delayed nausea was superior. patients preferred ondansetron.
follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in men older than 50 years of age. a dna flow cytometric study the clinical behavior of follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in elderly men can be difficult to predict on histologic grounds alone. to assess the usefulness of dna flow cytometry in predicting the metastatic potential of these tumors, the authors studied 44 primary and metastatic follicular neoplasms of the thyroid by dna flow cytometry of paraffin-embedded tissue. the neoplasms were obtained from 44 men ranging in age from 50 to 79 years (mean, 60). there were 29 follicular adenomas, 11 primary follicular carcinomas (neoplasms with capsular and/or vascular invasion), and 4 metastatic follicular carcinomas. follow-up information was available on 40 of the 44 patients. the mean follow-up was 114 months. twenty-five of the 29 follicular adenomas had a diploid dna content, 2 (7%) were tetraploid, and the dna histograms on 2 were not interpretable. all patients with follicular adenomas had no evidence of disease (ned) at last follow-up. eight of the 11 primary follicular carcinomas were diploid. six of these patients had ned, one died with carcinoma at 82 months, and no follow-up was available on one. three (27%) of the primary follicular carcinomas were aneuploid or tetraploid. two of these patients had ned, and the third died with carcinoma 84 months after diagnosis. two of the four metastatic follicular carcinomas were diploid and two (50%) were aneuploid or tetraploid. one of the two patients with diploid metastatic follicular carcinomas died with carcinoma, as did one of the two patients with aneuploid metastatic follicular carcinomas. these results suggest the following: (1) follicular carcinomas are more likely to be aneuploid or tetraploid than are follicular adenomas; (2) follicular neoplasms without capsular or vascular invasion may include a small number of aneuploid or tetraploid tumors; and (3) dna ploidy does not add to the prognostic value of histologic studies alone.
changes in surgical treatments: the example of hysterectomy versus conization for cervical carcinoma in situ. from 1969 through 1985, 4584 women in the state of new mexico were diagnosed with carcinoma in situ of the cervix. of these women, 65.5% underwent hysterectomy while 31.1% had a conservative therapy (primarily conization). over the 17-year period, there was a steady increase in the percentage of women receiving conservative therapies, from 11.8% in 1969 to 50.3% in 1985. younger women, unmarried women and american indian women were more likely to receive conservative therapy. this marked shift in therapeutic approach occurred during a time of apparent controversy as to the optimal treatment for cervical carcinoma in situ, and illustrates a rapid change in surgical practice in the absence of any controlled trials comparing the two major treatment modalities.
prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine added to a metoclopramide antiemetic regimen. a controlled comparison. cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting occurs both acutely and over a prolonged period of time. these symptoms may be incapacitating and are frequently given as a reason to discontinue therapy. we compared prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine when added to a standardized metoclopramide antiemetic regimen. twenty-seven patients receiving cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment arms. patients were observed during chemotherapy and answered a standard questionnaire 24-26 hours later. among similar treatment groups no differences were seen regarding the number of emetic events, level of nausea, degree of sedation or overall acceptability of one treatment arm or another. while not superior to prochlorperazine, transdermal scopolamine is a useful antiemetic agent and can be combined with metoclopramide in an attempt to reduce cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. further evaluation of this approach is needed.
myocardial protein turnover in patients with coronary artery disease. effect of branched chain amino acid infusion. the regulation of protein metabolism in the human heart has not previously been studied. in 10 postabsorptive patients with coronary artery disease, heart protein synthesis and degradation were estimated simultaneously from the extraction of intravenously infused l-[ring-2,6-3h]phenylalanine (phe) and the dilution of its specific activity across the heart at isotopic steady state. we subsequently examined the effect of branched chain amino acid (bcaa) infusion on heart protein turnover and on the myocardial balance of amino acids and branched chain ketoacids (bcka) in these patients. in the postabsorptive state, there was a net release of phenylalanine (arterial-cardiac venous [phe] = -1.71 +/- 0.32 nmol/ml, p less than 0.001; balance = -116 +/- 21 nmol phe/min, p less than 0.001), reflecting protein degradation (142 +/- 40 nmol phe/min) in excess of synthesis (24 +/- 42 nmol phe/min) and net myocardial protein catabolism. during bcaa infusion, protein synthesis increased to equal the degradation rate (106 +/- 24 and 106 +/- 28 nmol phe/min, respectively) and the phenylalanine balance shifted (p = 0.01) from negative to neutral (arterial-cardiac venous [phe] = 0.07 +/- 0.36 nmol/ml; balance = 2 +/- 25 nmol phe/min). bcaa infusion stimulated the myocardial uptake of both bcaa (p less than 0.005) and their ketoacid conjugates (p less than 0.001) in proportion to their circulating concentrations. net uptake of the bcaa greatly exceeded that of other essential amino acids suggesting a role for bcaa and bcka as metabolic fuels. plasma insulin levels, cardiac double product, coronary blood flow, and myocardial oxygen consumption were unchanged. these results demonstrate that the myocardium of postabsorptive humans is in negative protein balance and indicate a primary anabolic effect of bcaa on the human heart.
the role of peripheral capacitance and resistance vessels in hypotension following hemodialysis. the arterial pressure (ap) response to hemodialysis was studied with echocardiography and strain gauge plethysmography in 17 patients with end-stage renal disease; mean ap was unchanged in seven (group a) and was reduced by more than 10 mm hg in 10 patients (group b). following dialysis, body weight decreased and heart rate increased equally in both groups. ejection fraction did not change in the two groups. left ventricular end-diastolic volume fell by 13 +/- 10% in group a and by 24 +/- 16% in group b. cardiac index (ci) fell in group b, but remained unchanged in group a. systemic vascular resistance (svr) did not change in both groups. the change in mean ap before and after dialysis was significantly correlated with that in cl (r = 0.49, p less than 0.05), but not with that in svr. calf venous pressure-volume curves were not different between the two groups before dialysis. hemodialysis shifted the curve toward the volume axis for group b but not for group a. these results suggest that hypotension following dialysis is mainly due to the fall in cardiac output, in which increases in venous distensibility play an important role.
echocardiographic evaluation of cardiac structure and function in elderly subjects with isolated systolic hypertension one hundred four participants in the systolic hypertension in the elderly program (shep) trial (mean age 71 +/- 6 years) were examined by doppler echocardiography to gain information on the cardiac structural and functional alterations in isolated systolic hypertension. participants had a systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm hg with diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg and were compared with 55 age-matched normotensive control subjects. left ventricular mass index was significantly higher in the participants than in the normotensive subjects (103 +/- 28 versus 87 +/- 23 g/m2, p = 0.0014) and 26% of the participants met echocardiographic criteria for left ventricular hypertrophy compared with 10% of normotensive subjects. left atrial index was also greater in participants than in normotensive subjects (2.26 +/- 0.32 versus 2.11 +/- 0.24 cm/m2, p = 0.005) and 51% of participants had left atrial enlargement. doppler measures of diastolic filling were significantly different between the two groups, with peak atrial velocity higher (76 +/- 17 versus 69 +/- 17 cm/s, p = 0.02) and ratio of peak early to atrial velocity lower (0.76 +/- 0.23 versus 0.86 +/- 0.22, p = 0.0124) in participants. there was no correlation between left ventricular mass index and doppler measures of diastolic function, but relative wall thickness correlated significantly with peak atrial velocity (r = 0.22, p = 0.016) and peak early to peak atrial velocity ratio (r = 0.24, p = 0.007). there was no difference in m-mode ejection phase indexes of systolic performance (shortening fraction and peak velocity of circumferential fiber shortening) between the two groups.
femur fracture with limb shortening causing occlusion of a polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal graft. traumatic occlusion of lower extremity polytetrafluoroethylene arterial grafts is exceedingly rare. we report a patient who suffered a supracondylar femur fracture resulting in shortening of her right lower extremity with kinking and thrombosis of her above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene arterial graft. this is the first report in the english language of prosthetic graft occlusion as a result of traumatic limb shortening. the graft thrombus was successfully lysed by use of intraarterial urokinase, and the kink was repaired by graft resection and reanastomosis. the mechanism of injury and treatment are discussed.
migration stimulating activity in serum of breast cancer patients. an assay to measure the ability to stimulate migration of fibroblasts into collagen gel was carried out on serum from treated and untreated breast cancer patients and from healthy controls. migration stimulating activity was found in the serum of 10 (83%) of 12 untreated breast cancer patients immediately before surgical resection of the primary tumour and in 9 (75%) of them 4 days after resection; in 13 (93%) of 14 patients 1-13 years after tumour resection who had received adjuvant treatment; and in 2 (10%) of 20 healthy women matched for age. the migration stimulating activity in cancer patients' serum was indistinguishable from the migration stimulating factor produced in vitro by fetal and cancer patient skin fibroblasts in its behaviour in various biochemical fractionation procedures. the presence of this activity in the serum of treated breast cancer patients clearly distinguishes it from other oncofetal proteins, which all seem to be produced by tumours.
treatment of condyloma acuminatum with three different interferon-alpha preparations administered parenterally: a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. one hundred seventy-eight patients were enrolled in a placebo-controlled trial to evaluate three interferon-alpha preparations administered parenterally for the treatment of condyloma acuminatum. when all interferon groups were combined and compared with placebo, interferon recipients had greater rates of complete, 75%, 50%, and 25% lesion resolution than did placebo recipients (p = .21, p = .14, p = .02, and p = .02, respectively). rates of lesion resolution were higher among women than among men, and women were more likely than men to respond to interferon. virologic measurements in paired lesion biopsies did not correlate with interferon treatment or disease outcome. although interferon toxicity was observed frequently, no participant withdrew from the study because of side effects, and dosage alterations were not required. parenterally administered interferon-alpha is more effective than placebo in treating condyloma acuminatum, although rates of complete response are low. different regimens, including combination therapy, should be evaluated for treatment of this common sexually transmitted disease.
diurnal fluctuations of arterial ketone body ratio in normal subjects and patients with liver dysfunction. to explore the metabolic aspects of chronic liver disease, diurnal changes of arterial ketone body ratio (acetoacetate/3-hydroxybutyrate), reflecting hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were investigated in normal subjects, patients with chronic liver disease (child's class a or b), and patients with hepatic failure (child's class c). ketone body ratio in normal subjects increased after breakfast from 0.96 to 2.00, after lunch from 2.17 to 2.38, and after dinner from 1.23 to 2.55 with blood glucose level ranging from 103 to 141 mg/dl (5.7 to 7.8 mmol/l). by contrast, the ketone body ratio in the child a or b group changed little and remained within a range of 0.70-1.35 despite a large change in blood glucose level from 102 to 176 mg/dl (5.7 to 9.8 mmol/l). ketone body ratio in child's class c remained near or below 0.4 with no response to glucose administration, despite a marked elevation in blood glucose level. these results indicate that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential undergoes diurnal changes in sharp response to meals in normal liver function but that these fluctuations are absent in patients with liver damage (child's class a, b, and c). furthermore, it remains at low levels in severe liver failure (child's class c). it is also suggested that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential plays an important role in the regulation of blood glucose levels.
late postoperative episodic and constant hypoxaemia and associated ecg abnormalities. twenty-two patients without cardiopulmonary disease and undergoing elective major abdominal surgery were monitored continuously with a holter tape recorder and a pulse oximeter on one night before operation and the first two nights after operation (23:00 to 07:00), without oxygen therapy. mean heart rate increased 16 beat min-1 (p less than 0.001) and mean oxygen saturation (sao2) decreased 2.6% (p less than 0.001) after operation. episodic oxygen desaturation to less than 80% occurred in four patients before operation, but in 13 patients after operation (p less than 0.05). ecg abnormalities were observed in 10 patients before operation and in 16 patients after operation (ns). individual maximum st depression was more pronounced after than before operation (p less than 0.05). episodic desaturation was related closely to tachycardia in six patients before operation and one patient after operation; before operation to atrioventricular block in one patient, and after operation to st depression in two patients. mean sao2 on the second night after operation correlated with total dose of opioid for pain relief (rs = -0.48; p less than 0.05), and postoperative decrease in sao2 correlated with postoperative increase in heart rate (rs = -0.43; p less than 0.05). no patient had postoperative cardiac complications indicating treatment.
late potentials and inducible ventricular tachycardia in surgically repaired congenital heart disease. we compared signal-averaged electrocardiography with invasive electrophysiological study in patients after surgical repair of congenital heart disease to determine if potentially useful correlations exist between the two methods for assessment of risk for ventricular tachycardia. thirty-one patients (age, 1-49 years; mean, 10.6 years) with congenital heart disease repaired with right ventriculotomy or postrepair right bundle branch block (77% postoperative tetralogy of fallot) who had electrophysiological study were studied with signal-averaged electrocardiography. patients were classified by electrophysiological study results as having no inducible ventricular tachycardia, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, or sustained ventricular tachycardia. signal-averaged electrocardiograms were examined for the duration of low-amplitude (less than or equal to 40 microv) qrs signal, duration of total qrs, and root-mean-square voltage of the terminal 40 msec of the qrs. low-amplitude terminal root-mean-square voltage of 100 microv or less had 91% sensitivity and 70% specificity for ventricular tachycardia inducible by electrophysiological study. similar sensitivity but less specificity were seen using the criterion of 20 msec or more total low-amplitude qrs signal (initial plus terminal) or using total qrs duration of 128 msec or more. there was a weaker association between terminal low-amplitude qrs signal of 15 msec or more and inducible ventricular tachycardia.
experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy: new insights from the study of kindling and synaptic reorganization. temporal lobe epilepsy is a common localization-related epileptic syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures, ictal and interictal epileptic discharges arising from limbic structures of the temporal lobe, and association with hippocampal sclerosis. temporal lobe epilepsy may follow perinatal injury and febrile convulsions, may be progressive, and frequently becomes refractory to standard antiepileptic therapy. the neurobiology that underlies these features of temporal lobe epilepsy is not known. recent studies in experimental models have provided new insights that may help clarify the relationship of seizures, hippocampal sclerosis, and temporal lobe epilepsy. observations from the study of the hippocampus with kainic acid-induced lesions, the kindling model, and other experimental models of epilepsy have demonstrated that seizures induce structural and electrophysiologic alterations in hippocampal pathways that may lead to increased excitability and could play a role in the development and progression of temporal lobe epilepsy. these alterations include mossy fiber synaptic reorganization, induction of nmda-mediated synaptic transmission, and progressive hippocampal neuronal loss induced by brief kindled seizures. some of the structural alterations induced by kindling have also been observed in the human epileptic temporal lobe, raising the possibility that mechanisms operative in kindling may play a role in the pathogenesis of hippocampal sclerosis and in the syndrome of human temporal lobe epilepsy.
analysis of alterations in the retinoblastoma gene and tumor grade in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas. we examined 43 sporadic bone and soft-tissue sarcomas for molecular genetic alterations affecting the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene rb-1 (also known as rb1). the gene was altered in 6 of 14 sporadic osteosarcomas and in 5 of 29 other bone and soft-tissue sarcomas. rb-1 messenger rna (mrna) transcripts were detected in normal tissues and benign lipomas, but they were absent or altered in each of the 19 sarcomas we examined. to examine the association of deletions in the rb-1 gene with tumor grade, we correlated the dna alterations in the rb-1 gene with clinical data for 36 patients. the rb-1 gene was altered in 40% of high-grade bone and soft-tissue tumors, but not in low-grade bone tumors and in only one low-grade, soft-tissue sarcoma. overall, 10 of 25 high-grade sarcomas had detectable alterations of the rb-1 gene compared with only 1 of 11 low-grade tumors.
recurrent childhood myoglobinuria. recurrent heritable childhood myoglobinuria is a potentially fatal entity (mortality up to 35%) in which prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical. sixty childhood cases have been reported between 1910 to 1988, most with undiagnosed etiologies. we have studied an additional 40 cases referred to cpmc (1980-1988), suggesting that this condition is largely underdiagnosed or unreported. we have found important differences between the childhood and adult-onset cases. of 77 cases of adult-onset recurrent myoglobinuria, 45% have been diagnosed biochemically. in contrast, only 30% of the 60 childhood cases from the literature have been diagnosed; 11 with cpt deficiency and 7 with various glycolytic defects, and only 5 of our 40 childhood cases have been diagnosed, all with cpt deficiency. the 100 combined childhood cases can be divided into an exertional group (type i) with exertion as the leading precipitating factor (46 literature and 10 cpmc cases), a toxic group (type ii) with infection and/or fever as the primary precipitant (14 literature and 23 cpmc cases), and 7 undefined cases. the type i group resembles the adult-onset group in which exercise is also the leading precipitating factor. there is a slight female predominance (male/female = 1:1.3) in the toxic group vs. a marked male predominance in the exertional and adult groups (4:1). only 4 of 37 cases (11%) of the toxic group are diagnosed (all with cpt deficiency) vs. 19 of 56 cases (34%) of the exertional group (12 cpt, 7 glycolytic) and 45% of the adult group. the toxic group is also differentiated by a higher mortality rate and by the presence of additional clinical features, including ictal bulbar signs (8 of 18), encephalopathy (4 of 19), and seizures (2 of 7), as well as persistent cardiac abnormalities, developmental delay (4 of 17), and dysmorphic features (2 of 9). these clinical characteristics clearly differentiate the childhood from the adult cases and suggest the presence of more generalized disease processes and different biochemical etiologies. a study of the heritable causes of myoglobinuria is important because identification of the biochemical defect may elucidate the pathogenetic mechanism of the myoglobinuria and facilitate the development of rational treatment strategies aimed at circumventing or correcting the metabolic block.
kawasaki disease: echocardiographic features in 91 cases presenting in the united kingdom. ninety-one patients with kawasaki disease were examined by cross sectional echocardiography between 1980 and 1988. in the 75 patients evaluated during the acute phase of the illness (the first month), the first echocardiographic examination was carried out at a mean time of 16 days (range 5-30) and coronary arterial lesions were seen in 21 (28%). two patients with medium sized aneurysms had myocardial infarctions, and one died. coronary arterial lesions persisted in 17 (23%) patients, most often in younger children. the remaining 16 patients were examined from one month to four years after their acute illnesses, and this group did not have coronary arterial abnormalities. seven patients with coronary artery lesions have reached school age and require regular echocardiographic examination and exercise electrocardiography. selective coronary arteriography may be indicated in some patients to identify coronary artery stenosis, which the japanese experience has shown may progress for several years after the acute illness.
hemodynamic benefit of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during cardiac pacing in critically ill patients. objective: to determine the hemodynamic effects of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during emergency cardiac pacing in critically ill patients. design: prospective, within patient double-blind study. setting: icu or coronary care unit patients in a university hospital. patients: forty (23 cardiac surgery, ten acute myocardial infarction, and seven general intensive care) seriously ill patients with severe symptomatic bradycardia. intervention: initial randomization of patients to receive either a pacing mode where atrioventricular synchronization was maintained (atrioventricular pacing: atrial demand, atrioventricular sequential, atrioventricular universal) or a mode of pacing where atrioventricular synchrony was not preserved (ventricular demand pacing). measurements and main results: the cardiac output increased from a mean of 4.5 +/- 1.7 l/min (95% confidence intervals: 4.0 to 5.0 l/min) during ventricular demand pacing to 5.3 +/- 1.7 l/min (95% confidence intervals: 4.9 to 5.9 l/min) during atrioventricular pacing (p less than .0001) despite trivial decreases in cvp from 14 +/- 4 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 13 to 15 mm hg) to 13 +/- 5 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 12 to 15 mm hg) and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure from 18 +/- 5 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 16 to 20 mm hg) to 17 +/- 5 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 15 to 18 mm hg). at the same time, mean arterial pressure (map) increased from 74 +/- 15 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 64 to 79 mm hg) to 83 +/- 15 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 80 to 88 mm hg) and left ventricular stroke work index from 22 +/- 10 g.m/m2 (95% confidence intervals: 19 to 25 g.m/m2) to 30 +/- 11 g.m/m2 (95% confidence intervals: 26 to 33 g.m/m2). there was no significant change in mean pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance index, or systemic vascular resistance index. conclusion: when cardiac pacing is required in critically ill patients, maintaining atrioventricular synchrony increases stroke volume, cardiac output, and map apparently with minimal effects on preload and afterload.
hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma. foramen magnum tumours are rare. they may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions. we report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness, never previously described in the literature. voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma.
the natural history of non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy. seventy one patients with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy were studied retrospectively. sixty three (89%) were followed to the end of the study or death, mean follow up time was 5.3 years. whilst twenty (28%) had diabetes or hypertension, in thirty nine (55%) no predisposing condition was identified. in those who had monocular disease at presentation (68), subsequent involvement of the second eye occurred in seventeen (25%), seven within the first year. nineteen patients died within the study period. of these, nine died from myocardial infarction and four from cerebrovascular disease. this is a significant increase above figures calculated from the office of population census and surveys (p less than 0.001 for all causes, p less than 0.002 for myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular disease). such an increase in mortality has not been previously reported, and implies that this condition carries a more sinister systemic prognosis than is frequently supposed.
death and functional outcome after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. a prospective study of 166 cases using multivariate analysis using death and functional status as end points, we prospectively analyzed the outcome 6 months after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage in 166 patients admitted to an acute-care stroke unit on the first day of their stroke. seventy-one patients (43%) died, 69 (42%) had a satisfactory outcome, and 26 (16%) had a poor functional outcome. early (30-day) survival was correlated with morphologic parameters on the initial computed tomogram (hemorrhage size, midline shift, and intraventricular spread of the hemorrhage), while later (6-month) survival was correlated with age. using logistic regression, we found five independent predictors of satisfactory outcome at 6 months: age, hemorrhage size, intraventricular spread of the hemorrhage, limb paresis, and communication disorders. of these, age was the most important predictor by far.
glucose and fat metabolism during short-term starvation in cirrhosis. to evaluate the metabolic consequences of short-term (i.e., less than 24 hours) starvation, glucose and fat metabolism were studied in eight healthy subjects and in eight patients with stable cirrhosis after 16-hour and again after 22-hour starvation by 3-[3h]glucose and [14c]palmitate turnover and by indirect calorimetry. although patients and controls showed significant increases in free fatty acid concentration (respectively, 48% +/- 12% and 53% +/- 17%) and turnover (55% +/- 14% and 71% +/- 21%) during short-term starvation, the values after 16- and after 22-hour starvation were higher in cirrhosis. fat oxidation was enhanced in the patients, but did not increase during fasting in contrast to controls (increase 19% +/- 17%, p less than 0.05). net glucose oxidation was decreased in postabsorptive cirrhotics (p less than 0.05). although postabsorptive glucose turnover was not different from controls, starvation induced a greater decrease in glucose turnover in the patients (25% +/- 3% vs. 10% +/- 3%, p less than 0.05). this was not reflected in plasma glucose concentrations. in conclusion, the effects of starvation on glucose and fat metabolism are enhanced in cirrhosis; fasting hypoglycemia is prevented by decreased use of glucose. it remains to be established whether these changes are merely explained by defective liver function, per se.
hyperkalaemia during rapid blood transfusion and hypovolaemic cardiac arrest in children. a morbidity and mortality review documented a high occurrence of hyperkalaemia in cardiac arrests associated with rapid blood transfusion, which resulted in further study. in order to stimulate events during rapid blood transfusion and cardiac arrest, the central circulation was modeled as a linear one compartment, and used to stimulate a child who suffered a hypovolaemic cardiac arrest and was resuscitated with rapid blood transfusion (rbt). the simulation suggested that the combination of rbt and a low cardiac output state could be associated with hyperkalaemia, if the potassium concentration in the plasma fraction of the transfused blood was greater than or equal to 10 mmol.l-1. in an associated clinical study the plasma potassium concentration during cardiac arrest was documented from a retrospective review of 138 cardiac arrests in a paediatric population. patients were divided into two groups. the rbt-group received a rapid blood transfusion during resuscitation. the non-rbt group did not receive blood during resuscitation. during cardiac arrest the plasma [k] in the non-rbt group was 5.63 +/- 2.39 mmol.l-1 compared with 8.23 +/- 1.99 mmol.l-1 in the rbt-group (p less than 0.05). the hyperkalaemia during cardiac arrest in the rbt-group could be explained as a consequence of rbt to a hypovolaemic child with a low cardiac output.
vertical partial laryngectomy: a critical analysis of local recurrence. the purpose of this study was to evaluate local recurrence following vertical partial laryngectomies in 416 patients with either t1n0m0 or t2n0m0 glottic carcinoma. local failure was reported according to the t stage, the precise tumor location within each stage, the true vocal cord mobility, and the surgical procedure performed. no local recurrences were observed among 42 patients who underwent thyrotomy and cordectomy when the tumor was confined to the middle third of the mobile true vocal cord. local failure occurred in 8 of 111 (7.2%) patients in whom hemilaryngectomy was performed for tumors confined to one mobile true vocal cord. there was a diverse group of lesions within each t stage that responded differently to the surgical approaches. the differences in the initial recurrence rates are discussed in terms of careful preoperative assessment and choice of surgical technique for early glottic carcinoma.
squamous cell carcinomas often produce more than a single bone resorption-stimulating factor: role of interleukin-1 alpha*. several cultured human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines (scc-4, scc-12b2, scc-12f2, ec-gi-10, and ben) and one normal keratinocyte line (epy-1) were investigated for the production of bone resorption-stimulating activity (brsa). conditioned medium (cm) from each of the six cell lines stimulated bone resorption in neonatal mouse calvariae in culture. the brsa of scc-12f2 and ec-gi-10 was inhibited completely by antibody to interleukin-1 alpha (il-1 alpha), whereas the brsa in cm from the ben, scc-4, scc-12b2, and epy-1 cell lines was only partially inhibited by anti-il-1 alpha. addition of indomethacin to the calvarial cultures also partially inhibited the brsa from ec-gi-10, scc-4, scc-12b2, and epy-1 cells; the brsa from ben and scc-12f2 cells was inhibited completely by indomethacin. camp production by calvariae was determined after a 60-min incubation with cm. cm from ec-gi-10, ben, scc-4, and epy-1 stimulated camp production by bone. preincubation of cm from ben, ec-gi-10, scc-4, and epy-1 cells with two antisera against pth-related protein [pthrp; one specific for two pthrp-(1-141), the other recognizing both pthrp-(1-40) and pthrp-(1-141)] completely inhibited the camp-stimulating activity. using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for il-1 alpha and il-1 beta, il-1 alpha was measured in cm of the scc-4, scc-12b2, scc-12f2, and epy-1 cell lines. il-1 beta was undetectable (less than 0.1 ng/ml) in cm from all cell lines. our findings indicate that the brsa secreted by scc-12f2 cells can be accounted for largely or entirely by il-1 alpha, while the activity produced by scc-12b2 includes il-1 alpha and another unknown factor(s). the brsa produced by ec-gi-10, ben, scc-4, and epy-1 cells includes both il-1 alpha and pthrp. we conclude that il-1 alpha may be a more prevalent and biologically significant component of the brsa produced by sccs than previously recognized.
a prospective, randomized, double-blind, crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of chronic nifedipine therapy with that of isosorbide dinitrate and their combination in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure we performed a prospective, randomized, double-blind, crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of vasodilation with the calcium entry blocker nifedipine with that of isosorbide dinitrate (isdn) and their combination as treatment for heart failure. twenty-eight patients with new york heart association functional class ii or iii chronic heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction were studied. all patients were maintained on a constant dose of digitalis and diuretics throughout the study. eight weeks of therapy with nifedipine alone or in combination with isdn resulted in a significantly higher incidence of heart failure deterioration necessitating hospitalizations and/or additional diuretics. twenty-four percent of patients required hospitalization during nifedipine therapy and 26% required hospitalization during nifedipine-isdn combination therapy in comparison to 0% requiring hospitalization during isdn therapy alone. the total number of heart failure-worsening episodes was nine among patients on nifedipine, three among patients on isdn (p less than 0.09 versus nifedipine), and 21 among patients on nifedipine-isdn combination (p less than 0.001 versus nifedipine, p less than 0.0001 versus isdn). premature discontinuation of drug administration due to clinical deterioration or other side effects occurred in 29% of patients during nifedipine therapy, 5% of patients during isdn therapy (p = 0.05 versus nifedipine), and 19% of patients during the combination therapy. a comparison of eight patients who demonstrated clinical deterioration on nifedipine with the remainder of the patients demonstrated no significant difference in left ventricular ejection fraction (0.24 +/- 0.06 versus 0.23 +/- 0.07) or maximal oxygen uptake during exercise (13 +/- 3 versus 14 +/- 2 ml/kg/min).
heterogeneity in the inheritance of alcoholism. a study of male and female twins. genetic influence on risk for alcoholism was examined in a us treatment sample of 50 monozygotic (mz) and 64 dizygotic (dz) male and 31 mz and 24 dz female same-sex twin pairs. for the dsm-iii composite diagnosis of alcohol abuse and/or dependence, statistically significant mz/dz differences in concordance were found with male, but not female, twins. for specific diagnoses, mz/dz differences were found in male subjects for both alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence, while mz/dz differences in female subjects were found only for alcohol dependence. the male mz/dz concordance difference for composite diagnosis but not for alcohol dependence could be accounted for statistically by differences in age of onset between mz and dz probands. as with alcohol, differences in mz/dz concordance were found for dsm-iii composite diagnoses of other substance abuse and/or dependence with male, but not female, twins. using epidemiological catchment area data to estimate the population base rates of both alcohol and other substance use disorders allowed for heritability analyses that showed genetic factors to have only a modest influence on overall risk in both sexes (heritability estimates of approximately 0.35 for male subjects and 0.24 for female subjects). however, evidence for heterogeneity in the pattern of inheritance was also found, suggesting forms of alcoholism that may be moderately to highly heritable.
prostatic-type epithelium in urinary bladder. clinical, histologic, and immunohistochemical study. six cases of urinary bladder mucosa with prostate-type epithelium were studied clinically, morphologically, and immunohistochemically. all patients were male with an average age of fifty-three years; most presented with painless hematuria. histologically, two types of lesions were observed, the polypoid located in various sites of the bladder wall and the flat lesion found in the bladder neck. both lesions shared in common a prostatic-type and transitional surface epithelium while prostatic-type glands were prominent in the polypoid lesion. the prostatic-type epithelium was confirmed immunohistochemically by detection of prostatic specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase. based on specific findings we considered the metaplasia as the most reliable histogenetic aspect.
infiltration of dendritic cells in relation to tumor invasion and lymph node metastasis in human gastric cancer. the infiltration of dendritic cells determined in 210 patients with gastric carcinoma was investigated from the standpoint of tumor invasion, lymph node metastasis, and prognosis. dendritic cell infiltration was graded as "slight" and "marked." the 39% frequency in the marked infiltration group at the mucosal stage did not change in proportion to invasion into the deeper layers. the 5-year survival rate was 60.4% in patients with marked infiltration and 38.8% in those with slight infiltration, which was statistically different (p less than 0.01). the difference in survival rates was only statistically significant in those with cancer emerging from the serosa (p less than 0.001). there was a similar incidence of lymph node metastasis between the marked and slight infiltration groups in each grade of tumor invasion. however, marked infiltration of dendritic cells prevented widespread nodal involvement beyond the primary node in cases of advanced carcinoma (p less than 0.05). these findings indicate that infiltrating dendritic cells do not prevent the spread of tumor invasion but do prevent nodal involvement; therefore, for patients with a gastric cancer emerging from the serosa, the prognosis will be good.
anti-idiotype monoclonal antibody carrying the internal image of ganglioside gm3. murine anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies were generated against a human igm monoclonal antibody (l612) that recognizes ganglioside gm3 on human melanoma. hybridomas secreting antibodies that bound specifically to l612 were selected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using l612 and three negative control human igms, including monoclonal anti-gm2 and anti-gd2 antibodies, as well as purified serum igm, as antigen sources. gm3-binding inhibition and cell-binding inhibition assays were used to identify seven anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies that recognized determinants located within the antigen-combining sites of l612. to determine whether these anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies possessed the internal image of the original antigen, we immunized syngeneic balb/c mice with one of the anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies, 4c10, coupled with keyhole limpet hemocyanin. sera from the immunized mice reacted strongly with an antigen-positive m12 melanoma cell line and with purified gm3. because l612 detects and kills melanoma tumor cells in vitro and in vivo in the presence of complement without affecting normal tissues, anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies carrying the internal image of gm3 may be an effective tool for active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma.
orthostatic hypotension after spinal cord injury: treatment with fludrocortisone and ergotamine. we report a case of a 28-year-old woman with c5 quadriplegia, unresponsive to conservative treatment for orthostatic hypotension. ergotamine, daily combined with fludrocortisone, successfully prevented symptomatic hypotension. in this report, neural, renal, and hormonal blood pressure regulatory mechanisms are described. experiences obtained from this case and the existing literature suggest that (1) in persons with quadriplegia, plasma catecholamine levels show little increase with sitting, indicating an inability to activate baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes, (2) elevated plasma aldosterone and renin levels indicate a renal compensatory response to decreased renal perfusion secondary to low plasma volume and/or chronic hypotension, and (3) the net effect of ergotamine and fludrocortisone is probably a combination of plasma volume expansion and direct peripheral vasoconstriction.
incidence of cutaneous t cell lymphoma and other rare skin cancers in a defined population. between 1970 and 1984 in rochester, minnesota, rare skin cancers developed in 15 local residents: cutaneous t cell lymphoma (six subjects), dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (four), adenocarcinoma of sweat glands (two), merkel cell carcinoma (one), liposarcoma (one), and extramammary paget's disease (one). these cases were identified through a unique computerized retrieval system that is maintained at the mayo clinic for the population of rochester, minnesota. the annual incidences of these cancers in the rochester population were 0.9, 0.5, 0.3, 0.2, 0.2, and 0.2 per 100,000 residents, respectively (standardized to 1980 u.s. population). to our knowledge, this is the first report of the incidences of these rare skin cancers in a well-defined population.
measuring the quality of care for the cancer patient. in recent years, the efforts to better define quality of patient care have focused on attempts to improve on the measurement of quality. these efforts raise three questions: (1) why attempt to measure quality? (2) what is the best way to measure quality of care of the cancer patient? and (3) what must be done to achieve this? three main reasons for measuring quality of patient care are to describe the current state, plan strategies for improvement, and implement and monitor improvements. to measure quality, both the definition of quality and the tools available for measurement must be addressed. the difficulty in developing a measurable definition of quality is achieving agreement on the measurable components of quality. the tools to measure quality have evolved to focus on monitoring of key indicators for comparative use. the utility of indicators lies in demonstrating that they have the capacity to identify opportunities for improving care. the joint commission is improving measurement tools through the development and testing of oncology indicators for reliability and the capacity to identify opportunities for improving care. the development and teaching of new quality improvement methods to health care professionals also is necessary.
posterior mediastinal teratoma with abdominal extension. posterior mediastinal benign teratomas are uncommon neoplasms in infancy; nine cases have been reported so far. a one month old baby was found to have a benign posterior mediastinal teratoma infiltrating the lower oesophagus from the level of the carina through the oesophageal hiatus into the upper abdomen. partial oesophagectomy provided a successful outcome.
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention. retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant. we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability. at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated. the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed. the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized.
gallbladder mucin as a pronucleating agent for cholesterol monohydrate crystals in bile. mucin is a densely glycosylated macromolecule secreted by the gallbladder epithelium as the principal constituent of gallbladder mucus. hypersecretion of gallbladder mucus occurs in response to a lithogenic diet in experimental animals, and mucus accumulates as a viscous gel within the gallbladder lumen before gallstone formation. in both animals and man, the initial stage of cholesterol gallstone formation, the nucleation of cholesterol monohydrate crystals, occurs within the mucus gel. inhibition of mucus secretion with aspirin prevents gallstone formation in the cholesterol-fed prairie dog, indicating the importance of mucus in gallstone formation. mucin contains domains that bind cholesterol and lecithin transported as vesicles in supersaturated bile. furthermore, mucin accelerates the nucleation of cholesterol crystals in both supersaturated model and native biles. binding of cholesterol-enriched vesicles to hydrophobic domains on the mucin protein core appears to be critical for the acceleration of cholesterol crystal nucleation by mucin. further study of the structure and function of gallbladder mucin should help to elucidate the pathogenesis of cholesterol cholelithiasis.
fractured and retained guide-wire fragment during coronary angioplasty--unforeseen late sequelae. during a difficult coronary angioplasty, the tip of the guide wire became inadvertently wedged in a distal vessel, fractured, and retained in situ. because of the otherwise successful nature of the angioplasty and the patient's great risk for cardiac surgery, it was elected to leave the wire fragment in place. recurrence of symptoms led to recatheterization, which in addition to restenosis of the original angioplasty site showed diffuse narrowing of the arterial segment that contained the retained wire fragment. this occurred despite systemic anticoagulation with coumadin in the interval between procedures. thus retained guide wire fragments in patent coronary arteries may cause arterial narrowing despite systemic anticoagulation.
prostate specific antigen in patients with clinical stage c prostate cancer: relation to lymph node status and grade. the preoperatively drawn sera from 84 previously untreated patients who had clinical stage c prostate cancer and underwent staging pelvic lymph node dissections were sent for monoclonal hybritech analysis to assess the usefulness of prostate specific antigen (psa) in predicting lymph node status. of the 84 patients 47 (56%) had positive lymph nodes at surgery. the median psa value for all patients with nodal metastases was 11.4 ng/.ml., and for those without it was 11.2 ng./ml. relative to gleason score, median psa values were 11.35 for 2-4, 12.2 for 5-7 and 10.9 ng./ml. for 8-10. within each m.d. anderson grade median psa values were 10.15 for grade i, 13.2 for grade ii, 12.7 for grade iii and 10.5 ng./ml. for grade iv. simultaneously drawn preoperative frozen serum samples for 28 of these patients were independently analyzed by the yang radioimmunoassay. comparing hybritech and yang methods revealed strong statistical co-association (correlation coefficient r2 = 97.36, p less than 0.00001) but neither assay was statistically associated with nodal metastasis. although no psa level excluded the presence of nodal disease, we suggest that a hybritech psa of greater than 30 ng./ml. and a yang psa of greater than 50 ng./ml. may serve as a weak adjunctive marker predicting nodal metastasis.
early detection of gastric cancer objective--to see whether investigation of dyspeptic patients aged over 40 after their first consultation with the general practitioner would increase the proportions with early and operable gastric cancers. design--prospective study of gastric cancer in dyspeptic patients aged over 40 from a defined population. setting--10 general practices (six in central birmingham, four in sandwell); the queen elizabeth hospital, birmingham; and sandwell district general hospital. patients--2659 patients aged 40 or over referred with dyspepsia. main outcome measure--increase in early and operable gastric cancers detected in middle aged patients with dyspepsia. results--disease was identified in 1992 patients (75%). fifty seven were found to have gastric cancer, 36 being treated by potentially curative resection, including 15 with early cancer. conclusions--the investigation of dyspeptic patients over 40 at first attendance can increase the proportion of early gastric cancers detected to 26% and the proportion of operable cases to 63%. such a policy has the potential to reduce mortality from gastric cancer in the population.
somatostatin-receptor imaging in the localization of endocrine tumors background and methods. a number of different tumors have receptors for somatostatin. we evaluated the efficacy of scanning with 123i-labeled tyr3-octreotide, a somatostatin analogue, for tumor localization in 42 patients with carcinoid tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or paragangliomas. we then evaluated the response to octreotide therapy in some of these patients. results. primary tumors or metastases, often previously unrecognized, were visualized in 12 of 13 patients with carcinoid tumors and in 7 of 9 patients with pancreatic endocrine tumors. the endocrine symptoms of these patients responded well to therapy with octreotide. among 20 patients with paragangliomas, 8 of whom had more than one tumor, 10 temporal (tympanic or jugular), 9 carotid, and 10 vagal tumors could be visualized. one small tympanic tumor and one small carotid tumor were not seen on the scan. conclusions. the 123i-labeled tyr3-octreotide scanning technique is a rapid and safe procedure for the visualization of some tumors with somatostatin receptors. a positive scan may predict the ability of octreotide therapy to control symptoms of hormonal hypersecretion.
immunohistologic properties of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland. we studied the immunohistopathologic features of normal lacrimal gland, benign mixed tumor, and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland. primary antisera were to keratin, muscle-specific actin, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acid protein. keratin stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland, ductal epithelium in normal gland and the tumors, and occasional stromal epithelioid cells in the tumors. muscle-specific actin stained in myoepithelium and vascular smooth muscle in normal gland and the tumors, and occasional spindle-shaped and clusters of stromal cells in the tumors. vimentin staining was nonspecific. glial fibrillary acid protein stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland and polyhedral stromal cells in benign mixed tumor. our findings indicate that ductal epithelium develops into the epithelial component, and some cells in the stroma and myoepithelium develop into some cells in the stroma of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland.
perforin-mediated myocardial damage in acute myocarditis. endomyocardial specimens were obtained from 7 patients with acute myocarditis. immunohistochemical examination of the mononuclear infiltrate showed mainly cytotoxic t lymphocytes and natural killer cells. perforin (a pore-forming protein found in cytotoxic lymphocytes) was identified in this myocardial lymphocytic infiltrate and electron microscopy showed myocardial cell damage that may have been associated with these perforin containing lymphocytes. the results indicate that in acute idiopathic and viral myocarditis, myocardial damage may be due to the action of perforin-secreting lymphocytes.
cardiac pathology in 470 consecutive forensic autopsies. cardiovascular disease continues to be the single most common generic cause of sudden and unexpected deaths. atherosclerotic coronary heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most prevalent forms of fatal cardiac disease observed at autopsy. other cardiac lesions are frequently listed as causes of death, but the prevalence of such lesions as incidental findings in the general population is unknown. in this study, 470 consecutive forensic autopsies were evaluated for minor and major anomalies. the most frequently observed major congenital finding was floppy mitral valve (5%). tunneled coronary arteries, considered minor congenital findings, were seen in 29%. atherosclerotic coronary heart disease was the most common major acquired finding, observed in 16% of cases. of the 470 hearts, only 8% were considered normal.
effect of mitral regurgitation and volume loading on pressure half-time before and after balloon valvotomy in mitral stenosis. doppler pressure half-time (pht) is frequently used to assess mitral valve area (mva), but the reliability of pht has recently been challenged, specifically in the setting of balloon mitral valvotomy when hemodynamics have been abruptly altered. the effect of volume loading both before and after balloon mitral valvotomy on computation of mva by gorlin and by pht in 18 patients with high-fidelity micromanometer measurements of left atrial and left ventricular pressure was therefore examined. echocardiographic mva increased from 0.91 +/- 0.15 to 1.97 +/- 0.42 cm2 after valvotomy. volume loading produced significant increases in left atrial pressure (16 to 23 before and 12 to 20 mm hg after valvotomy), in cardiac output (3.7 to 4.1 before and 3.9 to 4.6 liters/min after valvotomy), and in mitral valve gradient (11 to 14 before and 5 to 7 mm hg after valvotomy). these hemodynamic changes were associated with modest but significant decreases in pht and increases in mva estimated by 220/pht (0.66 to 0.81 before and 1.64 to 1.96 cm2 after valvotomy), whereas the mva by gorlin was not affected in a consistent fashion by volume loading (0.85 to 0.89 before and 1.66 to 1.69 cm2 after valvotomy). the correlation between gorlin mva and 220/pht was only fair (r = 0.73, p less than 0.001) and was significantly poorer among patients with greater than 1+ mitral regurgitation (r = 0.72) than among those with less or no regurgitation (r = 0.79) (p = 0.001 by analysis of covariance for mitral regurgitation effect).
congenital tracheoesophageal fistula associated with carcinoma of the lung in an adult. a rare case of adult congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed. subsequently, at operation, large cell, undifferentiated carcinoma of the right middle lobe with extension to the right lobe and adherence to the diaphragm was documented. the diagnosis, surgical intervention, and 4-year follow-up are presented.
pulmonary disease following intravesical bcg treatment. bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg) is an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976. major complications of this treatment are infrequent. we report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical bcg.
ileal duplication cyst causing massive bleeding in a child. intestinal duplication is a rare congenital anomaly; nonetheless, it comprises more than half of all alimentary duplication disorders. our case report describes the hemorrhagic sequelae of this entity with surgical and pathologic findings. a review of anatomical classification, embryology, and natural history of duplication cyst follows; differentiating characteristics of duplication cyst versus meckel's diverticulum are outlined. intestinal duplication cyst should be considered in the differential diagnosis of gi bleeding, especially in children.
antifungal therapy and its use in surgical treatment. modern surgery continues to make significant therapeutic advances, and a major component in the adjunctive care allowing these improved procedures is the successful use of broad-spectrum antibacterials. however, the widespread administration of potent antibacterials and the frequent use of a variety of catheters, along with an increase in the number of immune compromised patients requiring invasive procedures, have allowed deep-seated mycoses to become more common. nosocomial fungal infections are frequent, particularly in the urinary tract and in the blood. this rise in identified fungal infections, along with frequent empiric treatment of suspected infection, has significantly increased amphotericin b therapy in surgical services in the last five years. while amphotericin b remains the standard for treatment of nosocomial mycoses, other antifungal agents are available (flucytosine, miconazole, ketoconazole and fluconazole). despite experience with the older agents and the development of new agents, many questions remain concerning the use of currently available antifungal treatments in postsurgical patients. the following discussion attempts to summarize the magnitude of the problem, the difficulties with diagnosis and laboratory evaluations, the characteristics of the antifungal agents and particular problems with antifungal treatment in surgery.
revision total knee arthroplasty for failed unicompartmental replacement. the results in nineteen patients (twenty-one knees) who had a failed unicompartmental knee replacement followed by a revision total knee arthroplasty were evaluated. there were twelve excellent, four good, one fair, and two poor results. the interval between the unicompartmental replacement and the revision total knee arthroplasty ranged from eight months to eight years. at the time of the revision, a major osseous defect was found in sixteen knees (76 per cent). the duration of follow-up after the revision ranged from two to ten years. at the most recent follow-up examination, radiographs revealed at least one radiolucent line in thirteen knees (62 per cent). the technical difficulties associated with the revision operation are evidence that unicondylar arthroplasty is not a conservative procedure that allows a total knee arthroplasty to be done easily later. the results also do not support the argument that a revision performed after failure of a unicondylar arthroplasty is less technically demanding than one performed after a failed primary total knee arthroplasty.
osteosarcoma. clinical features and evolving surgical and chemotherapeutic strategies. osteosarcoma is the most common neoplasm of bone in children and adolescents. the first effective therapy became available in the early 1970s, and although controversy existed for several years regarding the relative value of aggressive multiagent chemotherapy, presently about 60% of patients with resectable primary tumors and no metastases at diagnosis will be cured. new imaging methods, including computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and radionuclide techniques, that are sensitive to changes in local tumor perfusion have improved the ability to define the extent of tumor and the response to chemotherapy, and to plan surgery. although amputation historically has been the primary method for local tumor control, newer surgical techniques and endoprosthetic devices, coupled with effective preoperative chemotherapy, have offered less radical surgery for 50% to 80% of patients with osteosarcoma. new therapeutic agents, including ifosfamide and the immunosuppressive drug, muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine, hold promise for improvement in the cure rate of osteosarcoma.
reversibility of hepatic fibrosis in experimentally induced cholestasis in rat. the reversibility of hepatic fibrosis was investigated in an experimental model of extrahepatic cholestasis in the rat after common bile duct ligation for 2 weeks, followed by bilioduodenal anastomosis for 3 weeks. bile duct ligation resulted in a transitory marked elevation in the serum concentration of 5'-nucleotidase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin during the first 3 days. then these levels decreased to threefold, twofold, and 100-fold the normal values, respectively, during the following 4 weeks. histologic examination of the liver disclosed extensive bile duct proliferation and the formation of periportal fibrosis, with only slight inflammation and necrosis. the distribution of the major components of the hepatic extracellular matrix was analyzed 2 weeks after bile duct ligation, using the indirect immunoperoxidase method. fibrous septa were found to be strongly stained for collagens i, pro-iii, iii and iv, fibronectin, and laminin. the most intense staining was found in enlarged periportal areas, collagen iv and laminin being particularly abundant around newly formed bile ducts. these changes paralleled high steady-state levels of alpha 1(i) and alpha 1(iv) collagen and b2 chain laminin mrnas. relief of the obstruction for 2 weeks resulted in a shift in the serum concentration of 5'-nucleotidase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin toward normal values. a dramatic resorption of bile duct proliferations and periportal fibrosis were observed. three weeks after bile duct repermeabilization, immunohistochemical study showed that the pattern of distribution of extracellular matrix components was almost normal, except for collagen iv, which remained abundant in the sinusoids when compared with the normal liver. in parallel, the steady-state b2-chain laminin mrna level became lower than in cholestatic livers, whereas alpha 1(i) and alpha 1(iv) mrnas were almost undetectable. these results show that hepatic fibrosis induced by experimental extrahepatic cholestasis in rat disappears in less than 3 weeks after relief of bile duct obstruction, suggesting that an active degradation of matrix protein occurs, except for collagen iv in the sinusoid.
urinary retention due to sacral myeloradiculitis: a clinical and neurophysiological study. we report 5 cases of sacral myeloradiculitis presenting with transient urinary retention. neurophysiological testing, including bulbocavernosus reflex, pudendal evoked response and external anal sphincter electromyography, was performed. parasympathetic pelvic nerves, pudendal nerves as well as the spinal cord seem to be involved to various degrees in this infrequent disorder.
detection of active intraabdominal arterial hemorrhage: value of dynamic contrast-enhanced ct. contrast-enhanced dynamic ct was used prospectively to diagnose and locate the site of active arterial intraabdominal hemorrhage in 18 patients. active arterial extravasation was confirmed by angiography in five patients and by immediate surgery in nine. two patients not undergoing surgery or angiography required multiple blood transfusions to correct rapidly falling hematocrit due to a coagulopathy. one patient died of hypovolemic shock, and autopsy confirmed a large acute retroperitoneal hematoma. another patient with a splenic laceration and massive hemoperitoneum on ct had no active bleeding at the time of surgery, which was delayed 1 hr from the time of the ct. all patients were clinically thought to be hemodynamically stable and had systolic blood pressures greater than 110 mm hg at the time of ct. in seven patients, hypotension developed either during (two patients) or immediately after (five patients) ct scanning, necessitating either immediate surgery or angiographic embolization. contrast-enhanced dynamic ct is valuable in the diagnosis and localization of active arterial intraabdominal hemorrhage. identification of the anatomic site of this potentially life-threatening hemorrhage is critical in determining whether immediate laparotomy or angiographic embolization is the preferred method of treatment.
sensory ataxic hemiparesis in thalamic hemorrhage. ataxic hemiparesis with cerebellar-like features has been reported following infarction or hemorrhage of the thalamus. we describe five patients with incoordination and corticospinal tract signs in the limbs opposite a dorsolateral thalamic hemorrhage. in four patients the hemorrhage extended superiorly into the lateral ventricle, the adjacent paraventricular region, and the upper and medial parts of the posterior limb of the internal capsule. instead of cerebellar dysfunction, these patients exhibited directional errors of movement that improved distinctly when performed under visual guidance. we explain the incoordination on the basis of conscious deep sensory loss in the involved limbs. perception of light touch, painful pinprick, and temperature were preserved in all patients. we use the term "sensory ataxic hemiparesis" to distinguish these patients from those with "classic" ataxic hemiparesis and cerebellar-like features, a distinction that may be important when planning functional rehabilitation.
triiodothyronine and brain excitability. we investigated mechanisms involved in thyroid hormone action on brain excitability. the effect of acute exposure of triiodothyronine (t3) to rat hippocampal slices in vitro was studied. no significant changes could be detected in prevolley, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fepsp) and population spike amplitude, while there was a minor, nonsignificant trend toward shortening of the population spike latency time. t3 had no effect on penicillin-induced epileptiform activity. there was, however, an active accumulation of radioactively labeled t3 in the slices. a rat cervaux-isole preparation was used to determine focal seizure thresholds in the visual cortex, and no acute (2-4 h) effects were demonstrated. no significant acute effects of t3 on brain excitability in the hippocampus and visual cortex was observed, despite an active accumulation of t3. thus, the effect of t3 on brain excitability most likely is due to delayed effects.
death by smothering and its investigation. this case report provides details from an extensive death investigation, the results of which led to the certification of suicidal manner of death by means of smothering in a pillow, without additional assistance from other persons or mechanical devices. this was the death of a chronically mentally ill person who was under currently approved professional treatment. major investigative aspects of this case were the death-scene observations of the body, elimination of the possibility of homicide, and the study and analysis of the subject's psychiatric illness. reasons for the uncommonness of reported deaths in this category are discussed.
is baldness a risk factor for coronary artery disease? a review of the literature. a literature search identified eight articles containing data on both baldness and coronary artery disease (cad). three of these articles described case-control studies that showed a positive relationship between baldness and cad when controlling for cad risk factors. three other case-control studies showed no such relationship, but these did not control for cad risk factors. the results of two cohort studies were inconclusive. insufficient data were available from these studies to analyze possible relationships between baldness and cad risk factors themselves. overall, the data reviewed suggest that a small risk of cad due to baldness may exist, but this risk is smaller than that of well-known cad risk factors such as smoking and hypertension. future research should emphasize proper control for age and cad risk factors.
photochemotherapy improves chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease. we have used oral psoralen photochemotherapy (puva) to treat four patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease of the skin, oral mucosa, and liver, who had responded only partially to long-term immunosuppressive therapy (prednisolone, cyclosporine, azathioprine). puva therapy was delivered to the entire skin but not to the oral mucosa, and immunosuppressive therapy was continued in all patients. two patients' skin lesions improved considerably; the oral lesions healed and did not recur in one. immunosuppressive therapy could be reduced in these two patients. one patient with sicca signs did not improve. one patient had to interrupt puva therapy because of side effects attributed to 8-methoxypsoralen (nausea and vomiting). no flare of acute cutaneous graft-versus-host disease was noted during puva therapy. chronic graft-versus-host disease of the liver did not improve in any patient.
hematoma of the optic nerve sheath after penetrating trauma. we have presented a case involving the diagnosis and management of optic nerve sheath hematoma. our patient's positive outcome demonstrates the usefulness of megadose steroid therapy for acute optic nerve injury.
epidural hematoma: an unusual presentation. the authors present a patient with a traumatic epidural hematoma who complained only of headache and presented to the emergency department 48 hours after a fall. mental status and neurological examination were normal. this delayed presentation is more commonly seen when a subdural hematoma is present but may result from epidural bleeding. delayed formation of a traumatic epidural hematoma may occur when the following are present: elevated intracranial pressure, hypovolemic shock, a concomitant mass lesion, coagulopathy, bleeding from dural or diploic veins, a dural sinus laceration, a traumatic pseudoaneurysm, or an arteriovenous fistula. although criteria for computed tomography of patients with head injuries remain variable in the literature, delayed presentation of epidural bleeding must be considered in the differential diagnosis of posttraumatic headache irregardless of the time interval or neurological presentation.
acquired lutembacher syndrome or mitral stenosis and acquired atrial septal defect after transseptal mitral valvuloplasty. critical mitral stenosis in selected patients may be treated successfully with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty. complications of this procedure, particularly an atrial septal defect following transseptal approach, are generally of minor clinical significance. we describe a woman who initially underwent a successful percutaneous double-balloon mitral valvuloplasty via the transseptal approach. three months later she presented with right-sided heart failure. color doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization demonstrated an atrial septal defect (asd) as well as restenosis of the mitral valve. we conclude that significant asds may occur following transseptal mitral valvuloplasty with appearance of right ventricular failure and that color doppler imaging aids in the diagnosis of this new variant of the classical lutembacher syndrome.
detection of residual leukemia after bone marrow transplant for chronic myeloid leukemia: role of polymerase chain reaction in predicting relapse. we used the polymerase chain reaction (pcr) to detect residual leukemia-specific mrna in blood and marrow from 37 patients in complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission after allogeneic bone marrow transplant (bmt) for chronic myeloid leukemia (cml). our two-step pcr method involved the use of "nested primers" in the second step and could detect one k562 cell diluted into 10(5) normal cells. elaborate measures were taken to exclude false-positive and false-negative results. in nine patients whose blood and marrow were studied simultaneously the results were concordant (two positive and seven negative). twenty-three patients transplanted in chronic phase (cp) with unmanipulated donor marrow were studied. blood cells from nine of these patients were studied 3 to 6 months post-bmt and six were pcr positive; three were negative on subsequent studies. blood cells from 18 patients studied between 8 months and 8 years post-bmt were all pcr negative. nine patients transplanted in cp with t-cell-depleted marrow cells were studied. blood from five was positive 3 to 24 months post-bmt; blood from five was negative 3 to 6 years post-bmt. four patients no longer in first cp were studied after bmt with unmanipulated donor marrow. blood from all four was positive 5 to 19 months post-bmt. based on the known clinical results of transplant in these three cohorts we conclude that pcr may be positive within 6 months of bmt in patients who can expect long-lasting remission, whereas pcr positivity later after bmt may indicate that the probability of cure is reduced. thus, the technique may prove useful for early assessment of new transplant protocols that might inadvertently increase the risk of relapse.
human immunodeficiency virus infection of megakaryocytic cells. the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) is capable of infecting certain cells of hematopoietic lineage, particularly monocyte-macrophages and t lymphocytes. recently, the possibility that cells of megakaryocytic lineage are susceptible to hiv infection has been raised. we have characterized infection of the permanent megakaryocytic cell line cmk by hiv in vitro. cmk cells were easily infected by hiv type 2 (hiv-2), producing significant amounts of virus in culture. infection appeared to be mediated by the cd4 surface antigen on cmk cells. three different strains of hiv-1 were able to minimally infect cmk cells, suggesting there may be isolates of hiv tropic for megakaryocytes. infection of cmk cells led to downregulation of the cd4 surface antigen but no discernable change in expression of megakaryocyte-associated proteins glycoprotein ib and glycoprotein iib/iiia. these observations support the likelihood that megakaryocytes are susceptible to hiv infection, and cell lines of megakaryocytic origin may provide a useful model to study effects of the retrovirus on megakaryocyte function.
the effect of surgical stress on the in vitro metabolism of thyroxine by rat liver, kidney, and brain. in man, acute stress, like extensive surgery, leads to a rapid and prolonged decrease in serum t3 concentrations. the present study was carried out to investigate the mechanisms that underly the abrupt decrease in t3-neogenesis that occurs in response to acute surgical stress. male sprague-dawley rats, surgically thyroidectomized, and treated with 1.2 micrograms t4/100 g bw/day, underwent wide vertical and horizontal incisions extending into the abdominal cavity while receiving light ether anesthesia. different dietary manipulations were performed to investigate the superimposed influence of reduced carbohydrate and caloric intake on t3-neogenesis. the metabolism of 125i t4 labeled in its outer (phenolic) ring was investigated in liver, kidney, and brain homogenates of animals killed 48 h after surgery. in liver, values for the proportion of t4 degraded and the percent generation of t3 and iodide were unaffected by laparotomy. the percent t3 generation in experiments with 25 nm t4 concentration was 3.7 +/- 1.24% (mean +/- sd) in fed control animals given free access to 5% glucose, 3.4 +/- 0.67% in unoperated controls given a restricted amount of chow and 5% glucose, and 3.8 +/- 0.67% in operated animals given free access to chow and 5% glucose. as expected, t3 neogenesis in livers from unoperated animals was significantly reduced in rats fasted for 48 h and this reduction was similar in laparotomized rats fasted for 48 h after surgery. as in the liver, no effect of laparotomy on t4 metabolism in kidney and brain homogenates was observed. finally, serum total t4 and t3 concentrations were not affected by surgery. it is concluded that acute surgical stress in thyroidectomized t4 replaced rats does not influence t4 metabolism in liver, kidney, and brain homogenates or affect the serum t4 and t3 concentrations. since thyroid secretion of t4 (and t3) was eliminated and careful attention was paid to caloric intake in this rat model, previously reported abnormalities in serum thyroid hormone concentrations and t3-neogenesis in various states of nonthyroidal illness in man and rat, including surgery, are probably contributed to by thyroid secretion of t4 (and t3) and caloric deprivation, especially carbohydrate.
performing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy using colonoscopes: experience in 500 subjects. there is still controversy regarding the optimal length of flexible sigmoidoscopes. we performed screening distal colon examinations using 168-cm colonoscopes in 500 asymptomatic subjects who were unsedated and had sigmoidoscopy cleansing preparation. the mean depth of penetration was 66 cm and was similar in persons in whom the examination was discontinued because of poor preparation versus those with discomfort. polyps were detected in 87 patients, but only 5 subjects had polyps detected above 60 cm. we conclude that in a group of unsedated subjects scheduled for flexible sigmoidoscopy after a sigmoidoscopy prep, the use of instruments longer than 60 cm gives very little additional yield.
tumor cell lines established in vitro: an independent prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer. objective: to determine the relation between in-vitro establishment of tumor cell lines and survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. design: cohort study. setting: single-institution tertiary care center. patients: one hundred twenty-three consecutive patients with non-small-cell lung cancer from whom a viable tumor specimen could be obtained. intervention: tumor tissue was removed at the time of entry into a therapeutic protocol. the tumor tissue was processed in the laboratory for attempted cell-line establishment. patients classified as potentially curable (stages i, ii, and iiia) were treated with surgical resection, radiation therapy, or a combination. patients suitable for palliative therapy only (stages iiib and iv) were treated with radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy. chemotherapy was based on in-vitro drug sensitivity when available. cell-line establishment was correlated to clinical outcome. measurements and main results: univariate analysis of survival was done using the log-rank test; multivariate analysis was done by cox modeling step-up and step-down techniques. cell lines were established from the tumor specimens of 25 patients (20%). those patients experienced a median survival of 7 months compared with 18 months in patients from whom cell lines could not be established (p less than 0.001). in the 61 patients with potentially curable disease, 8 patients (13%) with cell lines established had a median survival of 8 months compared with 32 months for those without cell lines established (p = 0.001). in the 62 palliative group patients, the median survival of the 17 patients (27%) from whom tumor cell lines were established was 5 months compared with 7 months for those without cell lines (p = 0.15). multivariate analysis in both groups showed cell-line establishment to be a significant indicator of prognosis (p less than 0.0001 for curable group; p less than 0.01 for palliative group). conclusion: in-vitro tumor growth is related to decreased patient survival, which in turn reflects the biologic aggressiveness of cancers giving rise to these tumor cell lines.
hemiplegia in posterior cerebral artery occlusion. we report 4 patients with hemiplegia due to a posterior cerebral artery occlusion. associated clinical signs were aphasia, alexia or a neglect syndrome, hemianopia, and hemisensory loss. hemiplegia was due to infarction in the lateral midbrain. the level of the occlusion in the posterior cerebral artery may be located distal to the junction with the posterior communicating artery.
evaluating and influencing periodontal diagnostic and treatment behaviors in general practice. providers' periodontal diagnostic and treatment behaviors were assessed in 34 practices in two north carolina counties. regularly attending patients had a low prevalence of gingival pocketing on index teeth, moderate attachment loss, and fairly prevalent bleeding and calculus. treatment frequency and patient knowledge were generally adequate, but the notation of periodontal status in the patient record was insufficient. a continuing education intervention resulted in substantial and significant improvement in notation rates. changes in rates with which services were provided, and changes in patient periodontal status were smaller and mixed. the study shows that continuing education can be effective in helping some but not all providers adopt needed, appropriate behaviors.
the use of fibrin sealant to reduce blood loss during cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis. the increased complexity of cotrel-dubousset instrumentation has, as an unexpected side effect, a potential increase in blood loss. a prospective randomized study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that application of a fibrin sealant to exposed cancellous bone can significantly reduce blood loss during cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis. a significant difference was demonstrated in total body loss, loss per level fused, and loss per kilogram of body weight when comparing the sealant group with random controls. a significant difference was demonstrated in loss per level fused when comparing the sealant control with a historical control group. thirty-three patients were randomly assigned to the fibrin sealant or nonsealant groups; another 10 patients operated on before planning the study were included as historical controls. the sealant was used to control bleeding at the bone graft donor site and in the spine after decortication. all patients underwent cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis. there were no significant differences between groups with respect to degree of curvature, number of levels fused, age or weight of patient, or operating time. total blood loss in the sealant group averaged 672 ml compared with 894 ml in the sealant control group. no patient in the sealant group required homologous blood. given the increasing awareness of the complications of blood transfusion, the authors conclude that fibrin sealant is a useful adjunct to spinal surgical technique.
cause of thrombosis in human atherosclerotic arteries. although it has been known for a long time that thrombosis nearly always develops in atherosclerotic arteries--and almost never in normal vessels--the mechanism through which atherosclerosis promotes thrombosis was unknown until this problem was explored through histologic examination of complete serial section sets of thrombosed atherosclerotic arteries. these studies, repeatedly confirmed, revealed that the thrombi are triggered by microscopic cracks in the collagen cap of advanced plaques. blood most often seeps from the arterial lumen through the cracks into the underlying lipid gruel before the breaks or cracks are plugged by the thrombi (which function as hemostatic seals of the breaks). these results are parallel to results of experimental studies in which the synergism of endotheliotoxic and pressor agents produced thrombi over cap breaks and sub-break hemorrhages only in arteries with advanced collagen-rich plaques, not in arteries with early atherosclerosis or in normal vessels. this finding indicates that advanced atherosclerosis makes the arterial wall much more fragile and that, once broken, this wall exposes the blood to powerful thrombogenic materials that do not exist in normal arterial tissue. at present, human and experimental evidence suggest that the thrombogenic fissures of advanced plaque caps can be promoted by several factors, such as a surge in intraarterial pressure or insults that damage the caps structurally and increase their vulnerability to any type of stress such as certain metabolic, exogenous chemical and immune insults, spontaneous molecular changes of collagen with time and hemorrhages of capillaries that invade advanced plaques from the adventitia or the arterial lumen.
effectiveness of growth-promoting therapies. comparison among growth hormone, clonidine, and levodopa. the ability of growth hormone, clonidine, and levodopa to stimulate growth was compared in short and slowly growing children randomly assigned to different treatment regimens for 6 months. there were 10 children in each group, and 10 additional subjects served as controls. growth hormone improved mean height velocity, height velocity sd score, and height sd score. the mean height velocity and height velocity sd score were significantly increased by clonidine, while levodopa only enhanced the mean height velocity sd score of the treated children. moreover, in nine patients (90%) receiving growth hormone, two (20%) receiving clonidine, and one (10%) receiving levodopa, the height velocity was raised by more than 2 cm/y. the increments in height velocity and height sd score were greatest in the growth hormone group. clonidine induced an increase in height velocity significantly different from that in control children only. in the control group, there was a significant reduction of height sd score with time.
comparison of lymphangiography and computed tomography scanning in evaluating abdominal disease in stages iii and iv hodgkin's disease. a southwest oncology group study. the authors reviewed the records of 139 patients who had laparotomy plus computed tomography (ct) and/or lymphangiograms (lag) as part of a their staging workup for hodgkin's disease, in accordance with southwest oncology group (swog) protocol 7808. they evaluated the relative ability of ct and lag to detect disease in the abdomen. two regions of the abdomen were designated, the upper and the lower, to further examine the capabilities of ct and lag in the lower abdomen and ct in the upper abdomen. a lag was more sensitive (p less than 0.05) than ct in detecting positive lower abdominal nodes. in the upper abdomen, ct scan had low sensitivity for detecting positive nodes, liver, or spleen. this study suggests that lag of the lower abdomen provided more information than ct, and therefore should not be abandoned as a valid method for detecting nodal disease.
hormones regulating cardiovascular function in patients with severe congestive heart failure and their relation to mortality. consensus trial study group. there is a varying hormonal activation in heart failure. to be able to evaluate this activation and relate it to prognosis, we took blood samples at baseline and after 6 weeks from 239 patients with severe heart failure (all in new york heart association class iv) randomized to additional treatment with enalapril or placebo. in this study (consensus), which has previously been reported, there was a significant reduction in mortality among patients treated with enalapril. the present data show in the placebo group a significant positive relation between mortality and levels of angiotensin ii (p less than 0.05), aldosterone (p = 0.003), noradrenaline (p less than 0.001), adrenaline (p = 0.001), and atrial natriuretic factor (p = 0.003). a similar relation was not observed among the patients treated with enalapril. significant reductions in mortality in the groups of patients treated with enalapril were consistently found among patients with baseline hormone levels above median values. there were significant reductions in hormone levels from baseline to 6 weeks in the group of patients treated with enalapril for all hormones except adrenaline. there were no correlations between these changes in hormone levels. summarily, there is a pronounced but variable neurohormonal activation in heart failure even in patients with similar clinical findings. this activation is reduced by enalapril therapy. the results suggest that the effect of enalapril on mortality is related to hormonal activation in general and the renin-angiotensin system in particular.
pediatric behavioral neurology: an update on the neurologic aspects of depression, hyperactivity, and learning disabilities [published erratum appears in neurol clin 1991 feb;9(1):viii] the high incidence of poor social adjustment in long-term follow-up studies of depressed children seems to relate to the inadequacy of the pharmacotherapy necessary to sustain long-lasting remission or possibly to repetitive inappropriate stresses. insufficient antidepressant therapy with resultant intermittent depression-induced dysfunction of the socialization functions performed by the right cerebral hemisphere would not permit the child to develop appropriate interpersonal skills (causing failure in most social situations), and associated cognitive difficulties would complicate academic performance. repeated school failure and chronic social ineptitude preclude development of the skills necessary for successful independent living in society. thus, if symptoms of depression are found, it is imperative that the learning-disabled or behaviorally disturbed child or adolescent receive adequate antidepressant therapy to ensure complete long-term remission of the depression. in addition, learning-disabled individuals, even without apparent diagnosable depressive illness, must be offered appropriate methods for learning and communication which reduce stress. when such appropriate educational strategies are offered and poor performance still ensues (or continues), a trial of antidepressant therapy should be considered. recognition of the depressive nature of symptoms may not be possible until treatment-induced improvement has occurred and depression-associated learning disability has resolved. improvement in academic performance associated with improved cognitive function after treatment-induced remission of a depressive episode can be dramatic, with resolution of apparent learning disability. poor educational achievement associated with chronic learning difficulties ultimately affects adult social functioning, and untreated or improperly treated chronic depression may result in the development of later personality disturbances. therefore, before attributing school problems in children to untreatable conditions, depressive disorder must be excluded, and appropriate antidepressant therapy (along with removal of all apparent inappropriate stress, including inappropriate demands on brain function) should be provided to children and adolescents with evidence of depression.
development and reversibility of t lymphocyte dysfunction in experimental obstructive jaundice this study evaluates the effect of experimental biliary obstruction by bile duct ligation (bdl) and biliary drainage on cell-mediated immunity in wistar rats. immune status has been assessed by a mitogen stimulation test of t lymphocytes with phytohaemagglutinin. animals were followed for up to 35 days after bdl. regression analysis showed a significant negative correlation between lymphocyte function and the period of jaundice (correlation coefficient -0.57, p less than 0.001). following bdl for 21 days, groups of animals had internal biliary drainage for 7, 14 and 28 days, and external drainage for 14 days. compared with obstructed animals, 14 days internal drainage was required to improve lymphocyte function (p less than 0.05). animals which had 14 days of external drainage had significantly lower lymphocyte stimulation than internal drainage animals (p less than 0.05). the results demonstrate that obstructive jaundice produces a progressive reduction of t lymphocyte function. this can be reversed by biliary drainage, internal drainage being more effective than external drainage.
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis. a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry (fcm). overall, there was an 84% correlation between cytologic and fcm results. of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination, fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 (56%). image analysis (ia) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks. in addition, fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign (false negative). aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64% of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia. twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy (predictive value = 96%). the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst. fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present, whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed. when an aneuploid peak is present, a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected, and, if the initial cytologic screen is negative, a critical review of the cytology slides is justified. in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram, additional investigation is warranted. in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid (in this study 36%) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection, leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique.
crohn's disease and adenocarcinoma of the intestinal tract. report of four cases. four patients with intestinal adenocarcinoma complicating crohn's disease are reported. the youngest of the four patients was a 21-year-old female with a 9-year history of crohn's disease of the terminal ileum as well as of the entire colon. she developed mucus-producing moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the cecum. of the remaining three patients with crohn's disease, one presented an adenocarcinoma in the ascending colon, one in the rectum and the remaining one in the duodenum. all three colorectal adenocarcinomas originated in areas of high-grade dysplasia and all four in areas with chronic transmural inflammation. the review of the literature indicates that a total of 174 small and large bowel cancers occurring in crohn's disease have been recorded (including the four reported herein). the vast majority of the reported cases have been found in the north american subcontinent. only in a few instances were bowel adenocarcinoma and crohn's disease observed in the european continent. it is therefore remarkable that three of our four cases were seen within a period of 12 months. interestingly, six patients having colorectal adenocarcinoma in association with crohn's disease were recently reported from a single hospital in england. the question therefore arises whether our cases and those reported recently from england are unrelated and merely coincidental or whether carcinomas are now also affecting european cd patients. if the latter is the case, the surveillance policy for patients with cd should be reconsidered at this hospital.
inheritance of proliferative breast disease in breast cancer kindreds. previous studies have emphasized that genetic susceptibility to breast cancer is rare and is expressed primarily as premenopausal breast cancer, bilateral breast cancer, or both. proliferative breast disease (pbd) is a significant risk factor for the development of breast cancer and appears to be a precursor lesion. pbd and breast cancer were studied in 103 women from 20 kindreds that were selected for the presence of two first degree relatives with breast cancer and in 31 control women. physical examination, screening mammography, and four-quadrant fine-needle breast aspirates were performed. cytologic analysis of breast aspirates revealed pbd in 35% of clinically normal female first degree relatives of breast cancer cases and in 13% of controls. genetic analysis suggests that genetic susceptibility causes both pbd and breast cancer in these kindreds. this study supports the hypothesis that this susceptibility is responsible for a considerable portion of breast cancer, including unilateral and postmenopausal breast cancer.
hypointense renal cell carcinoma: mr imaging with pathologic correlation. in two pathologically documented cases of renal cell carcinoma, the appearance of the tumors at magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was markedly hypointense relative to normal renal parenchyma on both t1- and t2-weighted spin-echo images. pathologic examination of both tumors revealed diffuse iron scattered throughout the tumors. the paramagnetic effect of the iron may account for this unusual hypointense appearance at spin-echo imaging, independent of pulse sequence.
assessment of dilation methods in achalasia: large diameter mercury bougienage followed by pneumatic dilation as needed. in a retrospective study, 33 achalasia patients were treated with dilation therapy using large diameter mercury bougienage (mean, 56 french) and/or pneumatic balloon dilation. mean follow-up time was 35 months. mercury bougienage, performed in 20 patients, was successful in 10 (50%) with no complications. pneumatic dilation was performed as initial therapy or in those having failed previous pharmacologic therapy and/or bougienage. a successful response was achieved in 19 of 23 patients (83%), with a 3.2% complication rate. in addition, in four patients with eventual recurrence of symptoms after initial pneumatic dilation, bougienage was used as a successful alternative to repeat pneumatic treatment. the combined efficacy of both forms of dilation was 88% with a complication rate of 1.4%. these data indicate that mercury bougienage should be considered initial therapy for achalasia in view of its simplicity, safety, and acceptable efficacy, followed by pneumatic dilation if bougienage is unsuccessful. bougienage also may be considered if eventual recurrent symptoms develop after initially successful pneumatic dilation. surgery should be utilized only if dilation therapy fails to achieve a satisfactory response.
antigen ca 19-9: presence in mucosa of nondiseased mullerian duct derivatives and marker for differentiation in their carcinomas. ca 19-9, a side branch of the lewis blood group system, is a sialylated lewis a antigen that is highly expressed by many adenocarcinomas of the digestive tract. the mullerian duct-derived mucosa of the uterus and fallopian tubes also synthesizes lewis blood group antigens. to test whether the expression of ca 19-9 is enhanced in carcinomas of mullerian duct origin, we performed immunohistochemical staining for ca 19-9 in normal tissues from 33 women and in adenocarcinomas from 88 patients. in the normal uterine cervix, ca 19-9 was expressed in the cytoplasm of scattered glandular cells in 26 of 29 specimens. it was observed in the apical regions of mucosal cells in six of 26 normal endometrial samples and two of 13 normal fallopian tube specimens. these results are consistent with the presence of antigen ca 19-9 on a secretory product of the nondiseased mucosa of the mullerian duct. in adenocarcinomas of the endocervix, endometrium, and fallopian tubes, ca 19-9 was found in seven of 11, 57 of 71, and five of six samples, respectively. progressive loss of differentiation was accompanied by disruption of subcellular localization of ca 19-9 and its secretion toward the glandular lumina. in well-differentiated regions of tumors, the antigen was detected mainly at the luminal surface of cancerous glands, whereas the staining was mostly cytoplasmic or vacuolar in less differentiated areas. the degree of ca 19-9 expression was inversely related to tumor differentiation (p less than .001).
young's syndrome (obstructive azoospermia and chronic sinobronchial infection): a quantitative study of axonemal ultrastructure and function. the ultrastructure and function of nasal cilia and sperm tails were examined in 23 men with young's syndrome and compared with data previously collected from 10 normal subjects. quantitative electron microscopic assessment showed that sperm tails from patients with young's syndrome contained significantly fewer central pair microtubules, radial spokes, and inner dynein arms, and their cilia contained less inner dynein arms than normal subjects. the young's syndrome patients had normal in vitro ciliary beat frequency (11.4 +/- 0.9 hz), and 12 of the 23 had normal nasal mucociliary clearance (15.0 +/- 5.0 minutes). however, the remaining 11 had markedly abnormal nasal mucociliary clearance in vivo. in these patients, the deficiency of ciliary inner dynein arms did not appear to affect ciliary function in vitro but may under mucus loading lead to abnormal in vivo ciliary function. the consistent abnormalities shown in cilia and sperm tails, though apparently minor, constitute a common factor in both the reproductive and respiratory tracts which may, in combination with abnormalities in the in vivo environment, lead to the features of young's syndrome.
effect of hemodilution on capillary and arteriolovenous shunt flow in organs after cardiac arrest in dogs. the purpose of this study was to observe the changes in capillary and arteriolovenous shunting blood flow after cardiac arrest and subsequent resuscitation by venous return occlusion produced by inflation of an intra-atrial balloon and cross-clamping of the ascending aorta, and to determine how hemodilution might modify such changes. organ capillary blood flow and the fractional distribution of cardiac output were measured by the microsphere (9-microns diameter) trapping method in dogs. simultaneously, the arteriolovenous shunt rate was measured by continuous collection of venous blood drained at 4.8 ml.min-1 for 2 min from the brain, kidney, liver, splanchnic organs, skeletal muscle of the pelvic limb, and all of the systemic circulatory organs. the capillary blood flow of the brain, thyroid gland, pancreas, and stomach decreased after circulatory arrest in five nonhemodiluted dogs (group c); arteriolovenous shunt rate was unchanged after circulatory arrest in this group. however, with hemodilution, which was induced either before (pre group, n = 5) or after (post group, n = 5) circulatory arrest, no change occurred in the shunt rate in any of the organs, with the exception of an increase in the systemic arteriolovenous shunt rate in the pre group. capillary blood flow was maintained at almost the same level as before circulatory arrest in the pre group, but increased significantly in several organs of the post group. the data indicated that hemodilution might be effective for prevention of organ ischemia after cardiac arrest.
diltiazem therapy for symptoms associated with nutcracker esophagus. a randomized double-blind, cross-over prospective trial in 22 patients was designed to evaluate possible effect of an oral calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, on symptoms of chest pain and/or dysphagia in patients with nutcracker esophagus. we studied 22 consecutive patients referred to an esophageal diagnostic center for evaluation of noncardiac chest pain or dysphagia having high amplitude esophageal contractions, 14 of whom completed the study. diltiazem (60-90 mg qid) was compared with placebo, each being administered for 8 wk. patients were evaluated with esophageal motility pre- and posttreatment periods and with regular symptom assessment throughout each 8-wk treatment. active diltiazem therapy resulted in significantly lower (p less than 0.05) mean distal esophageal peristaltic pressure (128 +/- 20 mm hg; +/- se) than placebo (158 +/- 16 mm hg). mean chest pains scores were significantly (p less than 0.05) lower with diltiazem therapy than with placebo. only nine of the 14 patients fulfilled presently acceptable criteria for diagnosing nutcracker esophagus, and the diltiazem effect was similar, although not significant, because of the smaller sample. conclusions: in this preliminary study involving 14 patients, the oral calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, appeared to improve noncardiac chest pain associated with strong esophageal contraction, the nutcracker esophagus. these improved symptoms were associated with significant decreases in contraction pressure.
haemorheological changes in patients with retinal vein occlusion after isovolaemic haemodilution. in 83 patients with central retinal vein occlusion and branch vein occlusion we measured the haematocrit (hct), plasma viscosity (pv), red cell aggregation (rca), red cell filterability (rcf) and apparent whole blood viscosity (wbv). a control group (n = 41) was matched for sex, age, and cardiovascular risk factors. measurements were performed before and after treatment with isovolaemic haemodilution (ihd). we found no significant differences between patients with retinal vein occlusion (rvo) and control subjects in haematocrit, plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, and red cell filterability and no increased whole blood viscosity in the patient group. patients with ischaemic retinal vein occlusion and non-ischaemic retinal vein occlusion did not show different haemorheological parameters either. after treatment with haemodilution, only the haematocrit and whole blood viscosity were significantly decreased, and there were no changes in plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation or red cell filterability.
arterial oxygen saturation during induction of anaesthesia three groups of 10 asa 1 patients were studied to determine the incidence of hypoxaemia (oxygen saturation less than or equal to 90%) using pulse oximetry during induction of 'mask' anaesthesia, and whether simple oxygenation techniques could prevent its occurrence. we also surveyed all anaesthetists in three major hospitals to ascertain their techniques for this method of anaesthesia. anaesthesia was induced in all patients with thiopentone and maintained with nitrous oxide and isoflurane. the first group received 33% oxygen in nitrous oxide as carrier gases, a second group a few normal breaths of 100% oxygen during thiopentone administration followed by 33% oxygen in nitrous oxide, while a third group received 100% oxygen after loss of eyelash reflex until spontaneous breathing was established. no patient received positive pressure ventilation before spontaneous breathing was established. six of the 10 patients in the first group became hypoxaemic compared to none in the second group, and three patients became hypoxaemic in the third group. thirty-seven percent of anaesthetists who responded to the survey either did not apply positive pressure ventilation before establishment of spontaneous breathing, or only did so if apnoea was prolonged. only one anaesthetist fully pre-oxygenated patients lungs. we conclude that to avoid the likely occurrence of hypoxaemia during induction of mask anaesthesia, a minimum of a few breaths pre-oxygenation is necessary.
extracolonic malignancies in inflammatory bowel disease. a population-based cohort with inflammatory bowel disease consisting of 4776 patients (3121 with ulcerative colitis and 1655 with crohn's disease) was followed for 1 to 50 years for the occurrence of malignant neoplasms. two hundred eighty-three cancers were observed versus 189.1 expected (standardized incidence ratio [sir] = 1.5, 95% confidence limits [cl] 1.3 to 1.7). one hundred seventy-eight extracolonic cancers were observed versus 168.8 expected (sir = 1.1, 95% cl 0.9 to 1.2). in crohn's disease and extensive ulcerative colitis, observed cases were close to those expected but in ulcerative proctitis, the relative risk of extracolonic cancers was close to significantly increased (sir = 1.3, 95% cl 1.0 to 1.7). squamous skin cancers after crohn's disease (sir = 5.5, 95% cl 2.0 to 11.9) and connective tissue cancers after ulcerative colitis (sir = 4.0, 95% cl 1.0 to 10.2) were significantly increased. those having extensive ulcerative colitis at diagnosis had an increased risk of brain cancers (sir = 2.4, 95% cl 1.0 to 4.6). patients with extensive ulcerative colitis had lower than expected risk of breast cancer (sir = 0.4, 95% cl 0.1 to 1.0).
lower leg subcutaneous blood flow during walking and passive dependency in chronic venous insufficiency. the blood flow in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of the lower leg of eight normal subjects and 19 patients with chronic venous insufficiency was measured. the 133xe-washout technique was used with portable cdt1(c1) detectors and a data storage unit. only those patients with ulcers and a systolic blood pressure at the toe of greater than or equal to 60 mm were investigated. in the controls the relative blood flow during sitting was 0.61 (range 0.35-0.80). in the patients it was 0.46 (range 0.22-0.87). this difference was not significant. during walking the blood flow increased in controls as well as in the patients compared to the value determined in the sitting position (p = 0.0078 and p = 0.0028, respectively, wilcoxon matched-pairs test). the relative blood-flow rate during walking was 0.96 (range 0.60-1.58) in the controls, and 1.04 (range 0.49-1.46) in the patients. the difference between the normal subjects and the patients was not significant (p = 0.79). we conclude from our studies that patients with venous insufficiency are able to increase their blood flow during walking to the same extent as normal controls.
hemodynamic events in a prospective randomized trial of propranolol versus placebo in the prevention of a first variceal hemorrhage. in a double-blind randomized trial, the hemodynamic events following the administration of propranolol (n = 51) or a placebo (n = 51) were prospectively studied in cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices. the hepatic venous pressure gradient, heart rate, and variceal size were determined at the baseline and 3, 12, and 24 months after the beginning of therapy. baseline values were similar in both groups. at 3 months, the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly in propranolol-treated patients (from 18.1 +/- 4.2 to 15.7 +/- 3.4 mm hg; p less than 0.05) but not in patients receiving the placebo (19.6 +/- 6.8 to 17.5 +/- 5.3 mm hg; ns). at subsequent time intervals this gradient decreased significantly from the baseline value in both groups. heart rate decreased significantly in the propranolol-treated group at all times (p less than 0.001). variceal hemorrhage occurred in 13 patients (11 placebo-, 2 propranolol-treated; p less than 0.01), all of whom had a hepatic venous pressure gradient greater than 12 mm hg. in 21 patients (14 propranolol-, 7 placebo-treated) the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased to less than or equal to 12 mm hg; none of them bled from esophageal varices, and their mortality rate also decreased. because most of the bleeding events occurred during the first year (10 placebo-, 1 propranolol-treated; p less than 0.01), propranolol seems to have its protective effect during the period associated with the largest reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient. because a reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm hg protects from variceal bleeding and increases the rate of survival, this should be the aim of the pharmacological therapy of portal hypertension.
combined hemorrhagic shock and head injury: effects of hypertonic saline (7.5%) resuscitation. hypertonic saline resuscitation was compared to isotonic fluid resuscitation in a large animal model combining hemorrhagic shock with head injury. sheep were subjected to a freeze injury of one cerebral hemisphere as well as 2 hours of hypotension at a mean arterial pressure (map) of 40 mm hg. resuscitation was then carried out (map = 80 mm hg) for 1 hour with either lactated ringer's (lr, n = 6) or 7.5% hypertonic saline (hs, n = 6). hemodynamic parameters and intracranial pressure (icp) were followed. at the end of resuscitation brain water content was determined in injured and uninjured hemispheres. no differences were detected in cardiovascular parameters; however, icps were lower in animals resuscitated with hs (4.2 +/- 1.5 mm hg) compared to lr (15.2 +/- 2.2 mm hg, p less than 0.05). additionally, brain water content (ml h2o/gm dry weight) in uninjured brain hemispheres was lower after hs resuscitation (hs = 3.3 +/- 0.1; lr = 4.0 +/- 0.1; p less than 0.05). no differences were detected in the injured hemispheres. we conclude that hypertonic saline abolishes increases in icp seen during resuscitation in a model combining hemorrhagic shock with brain injury by dehydrating areas where the blood-brain barrier is still intact. hypertonic saline may prove useful in the early management of multiple trauma patients.
emphysematous gastritis: case report and review. emphysematous gastritis is a condition involving gastric wall inflammation, radiologic or intraoperative evidence of intramural gas, and systemic toxicity. a recent case of emphysematous gastritis in a 57-year-old diabetic man is reported, and 27 cases published since 1889 are reviewed. predisposing factors include ingestion of corrosive substances (37%) and alcohol abuse (22%). diagnosis of emphysematous gastritis is based on the clinical presentation of an acute abdomen with systemic toxicity and on radiographs demonstrating gas bubbles within the stomach wall. for the case reported herein, computed tomography was useful both in establishing the diagnosis and in following the resolution of emphysematous gastritis. organisms most commonly involved were escherichia coli (six cases), streptococcus species (six cases), enterobacter species (five cases), and pseudomonas aeruginosa (three cases). the mortality was 61% (17 of 28 patients), and morbidity with gastric contractures occurred in 21% of cases (6 of 28). optimal therapy has not been defined; however, antimicrobial chemotherapy and surgery, when appropriate, may improve survival rates.
adrenal carcinosarcoma. the clinical and pathologic features of a case of adrenal carcinosarcoma are reported. although synchronous malignancy of the adrenal gland has been described, no case of an adrenal tumor combining both carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements has been previously documented. this neoplasm is extremely aggressive with distant metastasis arising from the sarcomatous component, and rapid progression despite multimodal therapy.
relationship of ischemic heart disease to sudden death. a clinicopathological synthesis is presented of the relationship of ischemic heart disease to sudden cardiac death. the immediate pathophysiological process responsible for sudden cardiac death is a lethal arrhythmia, usually ventricular fibrillation. although significant coronary atherosclerosis is present in most cases of naturally occurring sudden death, available evidence indicates that several mechanisms can be operative in the pathogenesis of the fatal event. these are (1) acute myocardial infarction in a minority of cases; (2) myocardial ischemia, without infarction, which is initiated either by (a) an exertion-induced increase in myocardial oxygen demand or (b) an acute coronary event often involving plaque degeneration and platelet aggregation; and (3) a primary arrhythmia, usually resulting from altered electrical conduction in the setting of a previous myocardial infarction.
xanthine oxidase inhibition does not limit canine infarct size. background. evidence supporting the role of xanthine oxidase in myocardial reperfusion injury is based on studies with pharmacological interventions used to inhibit enzyme function. controversy exists, however, regarding the true role of xanthine oxidase in reperfusion injury. this study was performed to determine whether xanthine oxidase inhibition limits myocardial injury due to coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion. methods and results. anesthetized dogs underwent coronary artery occlusion (90 minutes) and reperfusion (6 hours). oxypurinol (28 mg/kg) or amflutizole (30 mg/kg), chemically unrelated inhibitors of xanthine oxidase, or vehicle was infused intravenously 15 minutes before and 3 hours after reperfusion. regional myocardial blood flow was determined with radiolabeled microspheres. infarct size was determined with the tetrazolium method. myocardial infarct size (percent of risk region) was less in oxypurinol-treated dogs, 32 +/- 16%, compared with that of the control group, 46 +/- 15%. infarct size for the amflutizole-treated dogs, 40 +/- 21%, was not significantly different from that of the control group. there were no differences in rate-pressure product or collateral blood flow to account for differences in infarct size. uric acid concentration in the coronary venous plasma increased after reperfusion in the dogs treated with vehicle but not in the drug-treated dogs. xanthine oxidase inhibition was demonstrated in each of the drug treatment groups, but only oxypurinol limited the extent of myocardial injury. conclusions. previously reported cardioprotective effects of allopurinol, noted to occur only when the drug was administered chronically, may be related to a property of oxypurinol, a major metabolite of allopurinol. the beneficial effect of oxypurinol is unrelated to inhibition of superoxide formation during xanthine oxidase-catalyzed oxidation of xanthine and hypoxanthine.
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy. relation to gynecologic features and outcome. we identified irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) in 47.7% of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain, 39.5% of 172 women having elective hysterectomy, and 32.0% of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group (p = ns). constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls (p less than 0.05). in laparoscopy patients, dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it (p less than 0.05). in the hysterectomy group, more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain (p less than 0.005), and abnormal menses (p less than 0.01). chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients (p less than 0.05), and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy (p less than 0.01). one year after laparoscopy, ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings (p less than 0.01) and lower pain improvement ratings (p less than 0.05) than non-ibs patients. in women who had a hysterectomy for pain, there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients (p less than 0.05). ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy.
effects of preoperative radiotherapy on rectal cancer. preliminary report on combining radiation with intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine. between 1976 and 1983, 61 patients with advanced rectal cancer underwent miles' operation at the authors' institution. all lesions were located 10 cm or less from the anal verge. of these patients, 25 were treated by surgery alone and 36 were given preoperative radiotherapy. the total dose was 42.6 gy, (30.6 gy [1.8 gy/fr x 5/week]) delivered to the entire pelvis plus an additional 12 gy (3.0 gy/fr x 4/week) delivered to the primary tumor. of 36 patients, 21 were administered intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine at the time of boost radiation and 15 were treated without intratumor injections. during the follow-up period (3 to 9 years), in the groups of patients who underwent radiation, there was only one local failure (2.8 percent). in contrast, in the group of patients treated by surgery alone, eight local failures occurred (32 percent). the intratumor injection significantly enhanced the effect of radiation on tumor regression. the incidence of positive lymph nodes was higher in patients in the surgery alone group than it was in the groups treated with radiation. there was no difference in the rate of distant metastasis among the three treatment groups. the five-year survival rate for the radiation with intratumor injection group, radiation alone group, and surgery alone group, was 77.8, 69.2, and 56.0 percent, respectively. no severe complication was experienced.
early postoperative balloon coronary angioplasty for failed coronary artery bypass grafting. in a small number of patients, coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) fails to relieve anginal symptoms. the usefulness of coronary angioplasty for the treatment of early (less than or equal to 90 days) recurrent ischemia after cabg was examined. forty-five patients were treated from 2 to 90 days after cabg, including 8 patients studied emergently for prolonged ischemic symptoms. one-, 2- and 3-vessel native disease was found in 4, 10 and 31 patients, respectively. at the time of postoperative angiography, the major anatomic mechanism of recurrent ischemia was complete vein graft occlusion in 12 patients (27%), internal mammary artery occlusion in 3 (7%), vein graft stenoses in 13 (29%), internal mammary artery stenoses in 10 (22%), unbypassed disease in 4 (8%) and disease distal to the graft insertion site in 3 (7%). angioplasty was successful at 91 of 98 sites (93%), including 95% of 41 lesions in native arteries, 89% of 46 lesions in vein grafts and 100% of 11 internal mammary artery lesions attempted. complete revascularization was achieved in 84% of patients. there were 2 in-hospital deaths and 2 myocardial infarctions. two additional patients underwent repeat cabg before discharge after uncomplicated but unsuccessful angioplasty. at late follow-up of the 43 survivors (mean 44 months), there were 4 deaths, 2 of which were noncardiac. repeat cabg was required in only 3 patients and repeat angioplasty was performed in 10. angina was absent or minimal in 35 patients; 17 patients were employed full time. thus, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty can relieve myocardial ischemia after unsuccessful cabg in the majority of patients.
hla class ii (dr and dq) antigen associations in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. validation study and meta-analysis of published hla association studies we previously reported antigen frequency differences for hla-dr4 and hla-drw6 between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (idc) patients and healthy controls in a pilot study. to confirm these findings, we undertook an independent study with a prospective hypothesis regarding the frequencies of dr4 and drw6; typing for a second family of class ii antigens (hla-dq) was included because of the proximity of the dq loci to the dr loci and the strong linkage disequilibrium between some of the dr and dq alleles. comparing a new consecutive series of idc patients (n = 41) and healthy blood bank controls (n = 53), we confirmed an increase of dr4 antigen frequency in patients (49% versus 21%, p less than 0.005). a trend toward decreased expression of drw6 among patients was also noted (10% of patients versus 23% of controls). hla-dqw4 was significantly elevated in patients compared with controls (27% versus 6%, p less than 0.005; relative risk, 6.1; etiologic fraction, 0.22). we identified the combined dr4-dqw4 haplotype in five of 41 caucasian idc patients (12%) and none of 53 controls (p less than 0.007). a comparison of specific antigen frequencies between the preliminary and validation studies did not reveal significant differences; therefore, the data from the two studies were examined in combination. for the combined studies, dr4 was elevated (51% versus 27% in controls, p less than 0.001), and drw6 was decreased (9% versus 24% in controls, p less than 0.01). the relative risk for dr4 was 2.8, and the etiologic fraction was 0.33.
the role of conditioning and verbal expectancy in the placebo response. both conditioning and expectancy models have been offered in recent years as explanations for the placebo response. following our earlier work on conditioning placebo responses in human subjects the current study examined the relative contribution made by conditioning and verbal expectancy. group 1 received a combined expectancy and conditioning manipulation; group 2 received expectancy alone; group 3, conditioning alone; and group 4 was the control group. subjects' responses were compared with and without a placebo cream, using iontophoretic pain stimulation. the results suggest that conditioning was more powerful than verbal expectancy in creating a placebo response.
effects of lactulose and lactitol on protein digestion and metabolism in conventional and germ free animal models: relevance of the results to their use in the treatment of portosystemic encephalopathy. protein digestion and metabolism have been studied in laboratory rats and miniature pigs to investigate the mechanisms of action of lactulose and lactitol when used in the treatment of patients with portosystemic encephalopathy. lactulose (beta-d-galactopyranosyl-(1----4)-beta-d-fructofuranose) and lactitol (beta-d-galactopyranosyl-(1----4)-d-glucitol) increased the excretion of nitrogenous material in the faeces and decreased nitrogen excretion in the urine in a similar degree to that reported for human patients. in studies with germ free rats given lactulose no such effect was observed, suggesting that, for lactulose at least, these effects are mediated by the gut flora. measurement of the alpha-, epsilon-diaminopimelic acid content of the faeces confirmed that the enhancement of faecal nitrogen was due to an increased contribution from bacteria. the similarity in the results for lactulose and lactitol suggests that, from the perspective of protein metabolism, lactitol acts in a similar way to lactulose in the treatment of portosystemic encephalopathy.
cells secreting anti-mag antibody occur in cerebrospinal fluid and bone marrow in patients with polyneuropathy associated with m component. occurrence and distribution of cells secreting antibodies against myelin associated glycoprotein (mag) were studied in 9 patients with polyneuropathy associated with the monoclonal (m) component in serum. utilizing an immunospot assay, we found that 4 of 7 patients with polyneuropathy associated with an igm m component had cells secreting anti-mag igm antibody in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) numbering between 1 per 212 and 1 per 3333 mononuclear cells. all 7 patients had cells secreting anti-mag igm antibody in bone marrow (median value 1 per 2000 cells). in contrast, peripheral blood from only 2 of these patients contained low numbers of such cells. one patient with polyneuropathy associated with an iga m component had cells secreting anti-mag iga antibody in csf, and 1 with an igg m component had cells secreting anti-mag igg antibody in csf; both patients also had anti-mag igm antibodies detectable in csf only by elisa. these 2 patients may thus have concurrent intrathecal production of antibodies of 2 different isotypes which are directed against the same or different epitopes of mag. the production of antibodies directed against a component of myelin occurring in the immediate vicinity of the peripheral nervous system might be involved in the pathogenesis of the polyneuropathy.
effects of treadmill exercise to exhaustion on the insulin response to hyperglycemia in untrained men. the effects of a single bout of exercise to exhaustion on pancreatic insulin secretion were determined in seven untrained men by use of a 3-h hyperglycemic clamp with plasma glucose maintained at 180 mg/100 ml. clamps were performed either 12 h after an intermittent treadmill run at approximately 77% maximum o2 consumption or without prior exercise. arterialized blood samples for glucose, insulin, and c-peptide determination were obtained from a heated hand vein. the peak insulin response during the early phase (0-10 min) of the postexercise clamp was higher (81 +/- 8 vs. 59 +/- 9 microu/ml; p less than 0.05) than in the nonexercise clamp. incremental areas under the insulin (376 +/- 33 vs. 245 +/- 51 microu.ml-1.min) and c-peptide (17 +/- 2 vs. 12 +/- 1 ng.ml-1.min) curves were also greater (p less than 0.05) during the early phase of the postexercise clamp. no differences were observed in either insulin concentrations or whole body glucose disposal during the late phase (15-180 min). area under the c-peptide curve was greater during the late phase of the postexercise clamp (650 +/- 53 vs. 536 +/- 76 ng.ml-1.min, p less than 0.05). the exercise bout induced muscle soreness and caused an elevation in plasma creatine kinase activity (142 +/- 32 vs. 305 +/- 31 iu/l; p less than 0.05) before the postexercise clamp. we conclude that in untrained men a bout of running to exhaustion increased pancreatic beta-cell insulin secretion during the early phase of the hyperglycemic clamp. increased insulin secretion during the late phase of the clamp appeared to be compensated by increased insulin clearance.
endoscopic treatment of biliary tract strictures in sclerosing cholangitis: a larger series and recommendations for treatment. we report a group of 35 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis who had long-term follow-up after endoscopic treatment of major ductal strictures in the primary or secondary biliary ducts. our patients were all symptomatic with ascending cholangitis or jaundice. there was significant improvement as measured by clinical parameters of hospitalization rates and laboratory data and comparable radiography. long-term follow-up averaged 24 (+/- 2.8 months). we believe endoscopic treatment of sclerosing cholangitis should be attempted in selected symptomatic cases with major ductal strictures before liver transplantation.
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease. objective: the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease. design: prospective study with partially matched historical controls. setting: tertiary care community medical center. patients and methods: seven patients with advanced parkinson's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus. these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery. results: in the study group, six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions, lobar atelectasis, pneumonia, upper airway obstruction, and cardiac arrest. three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions, subsegmental atelectasis, purulent bronchitis, mild congestive heart failure, and atrial flutter/fibrillation. one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course. the first control group, whose only surgery was a craniotomy, had only one major complication. the second control group, the abdominal surgery control group, had one major and five minor complications. conclusion: the particular neurologic disease, its severity, and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group.
gadolinium-mri in acute transverse myelopathy. a patient with acute transverse myelopathy (atm) had serial magnetic resonance imaging (mri) studies before and after administration of gadolinium (gd-dtpa). gd-dtpa-mri was useful in estimating the pathologic extent and residual deficit expected in atm.
aplasia cutis congenita and arteriovenous fistula. case report and review. we describe a child with congenital aplasia cutis congenita of the scalp and an occult giant posterior fossa arteriovenous fistula. previous case reports of central nervous system malformations associated with aplasia cutis congenita are reviewed. the exact incidence of such malformations is unknown. all patients with aplasia cutis congenita should undergo a neurologic evaluation, and their families should be examined for similar lesions. early central nervous system imaging and other workup may be required, especially if plastic surgery in the head region is being planned.
ultrasonography in the differentiation of complicated and uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis. differentiation of uncomplicated pyelonephritis versus complicated pyelonephritis has always been problematic. no clear physical signs or symptoms are diagnostic. to study differences between the two, we retrospectively reviewed charts of patients admitted to charity hospital, new orleans, with febrile urinary tract infections. criteria for inclusion were pyuria, positive urinary culture, and signs or symptoms of pyelonephritis. all patients underwent renal ultrasonography (us) before other diagnostic tests. us identified a potential emergency (hydronephrosis or abscess) in 11 of 98 patients (11.2%). the only significant contributing factor was the presence of diabetes mellitus, which was present in five of 11 emergent conditions and eight of 73 of the remainder (p = 0.003). us is inexpensive, easily obtainable in the emergency room, and sensitive enough to screen patients with pyelonephritis for complications. however, we believe it is mandatory in diabetics, because of the high incidence of abnormalities in this population.
safety of the transbronchial biopsy in outpatients. the objective of our study was to determine the safety of transbronchial biopsy (tbb) in nonhospitalized patients. the design was a prospective study of the consecutive cases from july 1987 until september 1988 in the setting of a university hospital of the third level with 1,800 beds. the patients were a consecutive sample of 169 patients who had 184 procedures of fiberoptic bronchoscopy (fob) with tbb performed. they suffered from different diseases: lung nodules or masses, diffuse interstitial disease, alveolar condensation, etc. an fob with tbb was performed in immunocompetent outpatients, who were kept under observation for four hours and then had a chest roentgenogram taken afterwards. we contacted them again after 72 hours to rule out delayed complications. in three cases, more than 100 ml of blood were obtained during the fob, without significant hemoptysis being recorded in those patients during the observation period; chest pain occurred in 15 patients during the tbb; pneumothorax occurred in two patients (1 percent), one of whom required admission to the hospital, without requiring chest tube drainage. other complications are reported (bronchospasm, parenchymal hemorrhage, and pneumonia). in conclusion, we consider the tbb to be a technique with a low incidence of complications for outpatients, so therefore we do not believe that admission to the hospital is mandatory for this type of patient, although we do recommend a longer observation period.
the prognostic significance of ca 125 half-life in patients with ovarian cancer who have received primary chemotherapy after surgical cytoreduction. fifty-four patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer were monitored with serial serum ca 125 levels after surgical cytoreduction and during multi-agent chemotherapy with cisplatin-containing regimens. ca 125 half-life of less than 20 days was associated with prolonged overall survival (p less than 0.015). in those patients who eventually were found to be disease-free at surgical surveillance procedures, normalization of serum ca 125 levels to less than 35 u/ml within 65 days of primary operation also suggested an improved survival (p less than 0.059).
a cellist with arm pain: thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome. we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity. abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery, and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry. temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference (delta-t) from one hand to the other. in 57 controls, mean delta-t at rest was .309 +/- .254c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t. in our patient, delta-t was ten times control (3.6c). angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain. our patient's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity. intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome.
the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer. the aim of this retrospective study was to determine the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer in relation to the site of the index ulcer. one hundred and thirty-five patients who had recurrent duodenal ulcer after documented healing of an index ulcer were studied. the recurrent ulcer was more likely to occur in the anterior bulb if the index ulcer was anterior (35 of 58 = 60%) than if the index ulcer was not anterior (29 of 77 = 38%, p less than 0.01). however, the likelihood of a recurrent ulcer on the posterior wall of the bulb was not significantly different whether the index ulcer was posterior (11 of 36 = 31%) or not (22 of 99 = 22%, p less than 0.24). three of 20 patients (15%) who initially presented with bleeding bled again with their recurrent ulcers, compared with eight of 115 patients (7%) who first presented with dyspepsia only (p = 0.39). thirteen patients were assessed independently by two endoscopists to determine ulcer site. their assessments concurred for 12 (92%).
a phase ii study of piritrexim in combination with methotrexate in recurrent and metastatic head and neck cancer. thirty patients with recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck cancer were treated with sequentially administered methotrexate (mtx) and piritrexim (ptx). the treatment schedule consisted of intravenous (iv) mtx (50 mg/m2) administered on day 1 and oral ptx (75 mg/m2) administered twice daily on days 8 to 12. courses were repeated every 21 days with dose escalation in subsequent courses aimed at achieving grade 1 toxicity. two patients were not evaluable for response, 5 (17%; 95% confidence interval, 4% to 30%) had a partial response (pr), 10 had stable disease, and 13 had progressive disease. all five responses were seen in patients with regional lymph nodes as measurable disease. the median time to progression for all patients was 1.4 months, and the median survival was 6.7 months. generally, this regimen was well tolerated with only mild toxicity seen during cycle 1 in the majority of patients. dose escalation in subsequent cycles was possible in a high percentage of patients. although the overall response rate and survival figures in this phase ii trial were disappointing, the doses and schedule used in this trial may have been suboptimal as reflected by the low incidence of moderate to severe toxicity. additional evaluation of this combination of drugs in a more aggressive schedule may be warranted.
the role of intracaval filters in patients with copd and dvt. a retrospective study of the coney island hospital experience with greenfield filters over a five-year period was undertaken. during this period, a total of 78 intracaval filters were placed in 76 patients. the patients' charts were reviewed for (1) indication for greenfield filter placement, (2) complications of the procedure, (3) associated medical problems, and (4) follow-up information. the data revealed one statistically significant subpopulation within the group that had particularly poor survival statistics after intracaval filter insertion. these were patients who had a pulmonary embolism and also had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). considering the low morbidity associated with this procedure, it is the author's feeling that prophylactic intracaval filters in patients with deep vein thrombosis and copd may be warranted.
maintenance of circulation during ventricular fibrillation with the simultaneous use of two "counterpulsation" devices. two valveless, single orifice counterpulsation devices, with pumping stroke volumes of 65 ml each, were implanted on the ascending aorta and pulmonary artery of seven open chest anesthetized dogs. after completion of the preparation, ventricular fibrillation was induced. the devices were synchronized to pump simultaneously at a rate of 85-100 bpm. the combined use of the counterpulsation devices provided maximal aortic pressure of 111.4 +/- 25.1 mmhg during ventricular fibrillation for a period of 15-60 min. the mean left ventricular pressure was 17.7 +/- 4.4 mmhg, and the cardiac index 64.5 +/- 23.6 ml/kg/min. cardioversion of ventricular fibrillation to sinus rhythm restored normal hemodynamics. the counterpulsation device implanted on the ascending aorta was not able to maintain circulation for more than 5 min after the induction of ventricular fibrillation, if used alone. in conclusion, the use of two counterpulsation devices implanted on the ascending aorta and pulmonary artery was able to maintain circulation in experimental animals during ventricular fibrillation.
obesity-related hypertension: evaluation of the separate effects of energy restriction and weight reduction on hemodynamic and neuroendocrine status. purpose: although weight reduction generally lowers blood pressure, it is unclear whether the response is due to concurrent dietary changes or to reduced body mass itself. in this study, the independent effects of energy restriction and weight reduction were examined prospectively in 24 obese, hypertensive, normoglycemic women whose dietary intake was tightly controlled. subjects and methods: sodium, potassium, and calcium intake, the polyunsaturated/saturated fat ratio, and the proportional composition of carbohydrate, fat, and protein were constant throughout the 5-month protocol. hemodynamic and neuroendocrine status was evaluated in four 10-day hospital phases: two prior to weight loss (energy balance and then 800-kcal intake), and two after an average loss of 13 kg to normal body weight (800 kcal and then return to energy balance). results: fasting serum insulin, triiodothyronine:reverse triiodothyronine ratio, resting metabolic rate, and heart rate declined, and sodium and potassium balances were negative during energy restriction. catecholamines, renin, aldosterone, plasma volume, cardiac output, and blood pressure showed no consistent response to changes in energy intake. by contrast, weight reduction independently lowered blood pressure, plasma volume, cardiac output, and plasma renin activity. body fat pattern remained unchanged. conclusion: these results demonstrate that weight loss has a blood pressure-lowering effect that is distinct from energy restriction and that is related to changes in blood volume and cardiac output.
a multifaced dna ploidy analysis to determine ovarian carcinoma aggressiveness. a microfluorometric dna study was conducted on isolated cells from 64 fragments of ovarian epithelial tumors. data analysis considered the dna content of the main stemline and the prevalence of cells in the different compartments of the dna ploidy histogram in relation to the mitotic activity index and the histologic architecture. main stemlines were found remarkably stable in different parts of the same tumor. peridiploid (1.8c to 2.2c) stemlines were found both in well-differentiated and in poorly differentiated tumors. however, low aneuploid (2.2c to 3.0c) stemlines were mostly found in nonsolid tumors and high ploidy (3.2 to 5.04 c) stemlines were prevalent in solid tumors. a comparative analysis between dna ploidy parameters and mitotic activity was useful to evaluate the expanding modalities of neoplastic cell populations. this analysis revealed that several tumors accumulate an excessive amount of heteroploid cells and others an excessive amount of g2 cells. yet, most neoplastic cell populations vary from slow to rapidly growing patterns without relevant abnormalities in their ploidy graphic profiles. no relationship was found between stemline ploidy and histologic architecture compared with expanding modalities. these findings indicate that multifaced criteria combining features such as main ploidy, graphic profile, mitotic rate, and histologic architecture measured on one or more microsamples of the same tumor may help to objectively estimate the aggressiveness reached by the neoplastic cells at the time of clinical presentation.
photodynamic therapy to treat tumors of the extrahepatic biliary ducts. a case report. the poor survival rate of patients with extrahepatic bile duct tumors is well documented. over the course of 4 years, we treated a white woman with diabetes diagnosed with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the common bile duct with six injections of dihematoporphyrin ether followed by seven photodynamic therapy treatments to the biliary duct. as of july 1989, the patient was still alive, was not jaundiced, and had a karnofsky performance status of 70. no changes occurred in any blood chemistry value from the time of injection to the time of photodynamic therapy. of the transient elevations of some blood chemistry values and the white blood cell count, which occurred within 24 to 48 hours after photodynamic therapy, only those of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and amylase were significant.
99tcm-hmpao spect studies in traumatic intracerebral haematoma. traumatic intracerebral haematomas are a common neurosurgical emergency. their management, particularly the role of surgical removal, is controversial. deterioration often occurs late, and is unpredictable. eight patients with traumatic intracerebral haematomas were admitted to the neurosurgical unit to monitor their clinical state. all were studied within 48 hours of admission with single photon emission computerised tomography (spect), using the recently introduced radionuclide 99technetiumm-hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (99tcm-hmpao). at the time of the spect study, all the patients had been clinically stable. three patients remained so; in the other five, the conscious level deteriorated, necessitating craniotomy and evacuation of the haematoma. in all the patients, the spect studies demonstrated perfusion defects that corresponded to the location of the haematoma, as demonstrated by computerised tomography (ct). however, in the five patients who subsequently deteriorated, the perfusion defects seen on the spect scan appeared larger than the haematoma, as seen on the ct scan. in addition, there was widespread poor retention of 99tcm-hmpao in the ipsilateral hemisphere. these differences were quantifiable. interestingly, these differences were present at a time when the patients were clinically stable, before their deterioration. it is concluded that spect studies with 99tcm-hmpao are of possible use as predictors of late deterioration in the management of traumatic intracerebral haematomas.
analysis of alterations in the retinoblastoma gene and tumor grade in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas. we examined 43 sporadic bone and soft-tissue sarcomas for molecular genetic alterations affecting the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene rb-1 (also known as rb1). the gene was altered in 6 of 14 sporadic osteosarcomas and in 5 of 29 other bone and soft-tissue sarcomas. rb-1 messenger rna (mrna) transcripts were detected in normal tissues and benign lipomas, but they were absent or altered in each of the 19 sarcomas we examined. to examine the association of deletions in the rb-1 gene with tumor grade, we correlated the dna alterations in the rb-1 gene with clinical data for 36 patients. the rb-1 gene was altered in 40% of high-grade bone and soft-tissue tumors, but not in low-grade bone tumors and in only one low-grade, soft-tissue sarcoma. overall, 10 of 25 high-grade sarcomas had detectable alterations of the rb-1 gene compared with only 1 of 11 low-grade tumors.
successful cpr in a severely hypothermic patient using continuous thoracostomy lavage. severe hypothermia with cardiopulmonary arrest often requires prolonged resuscitation while rewarming procedures are implemented. a 63-year-old male in cardiopulmonary arrest with a core body temperature of 23.7 c was resuscitated successfully after core rewarming by means of a two-chest-tube continuous thoracostomy lavage procedure. this lavage procedure resulted in effective and rapid rewarming after other conventional rewarming methods had failed.
intrathoracic fibrin glue for postoperative pleuropulmonary fistula. twenty cases of persistent pleuropulmonary fistula after a thoracic surgical procedure were successfully treated with fibrin glue injection into the thoracic cavity through a drainage tube. a new technique, the overlying method, which is a modification of the conventional technique of fibrin glue injection, was devised. each patient received one to four injections (mean number, 1.6). this method resulted in closure of the pleuropulmonary fistula in all but 1 patient. minor complications included pain in 1 patient and fever in 3 patients. a control study involving 24 patients with pleuropulmonary fistula was performed. autoblood, ok-432, and tetracycline were used instead of fibrin glue. the fistula resolved in 12 patients. complications after injection included pain in 15 patients, fever in 10, and occlusion of the chest tube in 4. with our new method, patients rarely exhibited pain and fever, and occlusion of the chest tube did not occur.
prognosis of node-positive colon cancer. the most recent american joint committee on cancer/international union against cancer (ajcc/uicc) staging system subgroups patients into one to three and four or more positive nodes. however, the gastrointestinal study group and the national surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project divides node-positive patients into one to four and five or greater. a cox multi-variate retrospective analysis was done of the overall survival of node-positive colon cancer patients with the specific objective of determining the most appropriate subcategorization. data on 306 patients with node-positive colon cancer who underwent potentially curative surgery from 1970 to 1984 were analyzed retrospectively. no patient received adjuvant chemotherapy. also excluded were patients with synchronous resected metastatic disease or those with rectal primaries. the median follow-up was 6 years, and the median survival for the entire group was 8.6 years. by univariate analysis, the following were significant prognostic features: number of positive nodes (p less than 0.0001), degree of differentiation (p less than 0.0001), colon primary site (p = 0.009), tumor stage (p = 0.001), and tumor size (p less than 0.0001). lymphatic/blood vessel invasion and a mucinous histology were not significant. by cox multivariate analysis the number of positive lymph nodes remained the best discriminant of survival (p = 0.0001). the number of positive nodes was related inversely to prognosis with the optimal dichotomization between one to three (66% 5-year survival) and four or greater nodes (37% 5-year survival).
doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in general medical practice in latin america. this latin american study assessed in the general practice setting the efficacy and tolerance of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure, 95 to 115 mm hg). patients (n = 220) were treated with doxazosin for 12 weeks as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. at the final visit, doxazosin produced a mean change in sitting systolic/diastolic blood pressure of -18.4/-14.4 mm hg, at a mean daily dose of 4.3 mg. one hundred sixty-three (77.6%) of the 210 evaluable patients were considered a therapeutic success. lipid analyses identified a statistically significant (p = 0.02) reduction in total serum cholesterol (4.85%) and an overall decrease in triglyceride levels (5.12%). according to the framingham heart study equation, doxazosin produced a highly significant (p less than 0.001) 20% reduction in the calculated probability of developing coronary heart disease in 10 years. of the 220 patients evaluated, 54 (24.5%) reported side effects that were considered related to treatment. ten (4.5%) patients reported side effects unrelated to treatment and 37 (16.8%) reported events of unknown relationship. most side effects were mild or moderate and were tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment. nine patients (4.1%) were discontinued from therapy and in 13 (5.9%) the dose was reduced. the most prevalent side effects were headache and dizziness. the investigator's overall assessment of antihypertensive efficacy was excellent or good for 176 patients (80.4%); tolerance was considered excellent or good in 193 patients (88.5%).
immunohistologic evaluation of parathyroid hormone-related protein in human lung cancer and normal tissue with newly developed monoclonal antibody. with a newly developed monoclonal anti-pthrp antibody, 4b3, the immunohistochemical localization of the parathyroid hormone-related protein (pthrp) was studied on the formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded sections of normal human tissues and various subtypes of lung cancer. among normal epithelial tissues, keratinocytes in squamous epithelia, transitional and bronchial epithelia with squamous metaplasia, meningoepithelial cells, and mammary ductal cells with lactating changes showed positive immunoreactivity. also, among endocrine tissues, cells in the parathyroid gland, pancreatic islets, adrenal cortex, pituitary gland, and testis were sporadically positive for pthrp. these distribution patterns suggested that in a physiologic condition, pthrp was closely related to keratinization and local secretion and/or the metabolism of calcium in specifically differentiated tissues. in lung cancer, however, pthrp was detected in all cases of well-differentiated and moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in most cases of small cell carcinoma, irrespective of the patients' serum calcium level. however, pthrp was not detected in two of five cases of poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in all cases of adenocarcinoma. consequently, it was found that pthrp was commonly produced by squamous cell carcinomas of the differentiated type, and that humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy could be induced when the pthrp transgressed the homeostatic mechanisms.
selective peripheral denervation for torticollis: preliminary results herein we report the preliminary results in nine patients who have undergone selective peripheral denervation for spasmodic torticollis and have been followed up for at least 13 months. all patients had improvement immediately after surgical intervention, and the results have been maintained in five patients. in one patient who had recurrent torticollis, a second procedure in conjunction with injection of botulinum toxin has produced substantial improvement; however, follow-up was brief (6 months). no surgical complications occurred. we believe that selective peripheral denervation is safe and that it can benefit patients with torticollis who have not responded to other types of therapy. these favorable results confirm other published reports on the efficacy of selective peripheral denervation. long-term follow-up, however, is necessary for determining the role of this procedure in the management of torticollis.
ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications. four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications. there was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index. however, lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. of these patients, forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex, age, concomitant illness and operation performed. the cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls (11.98 versus 12.43). the increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36, and less than 13 was 3.44. surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients.
spinal hemangioblastoma, syrinx, and hydrocephalus in a two-year-old child. a two-year-old child presented with an acute inability to bear weight. radiological investigation revealed a large cervicothoracolumbar syrinx of no known cause. during investigation, acute communicating hydrocephalus developed, which required a shunt. at surgery, a small thoracic spinal cord hemangioblastoma was discovered and excised. complete recovery with collapse of the syrinx followed. the clinical features of this rare childhood tumor and its associated effects are discussed.
infections in hiv-infected travelers: risks and prevention. objective: to review risks for infection and to outline strategies to protect the health of travelers infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). data sources: original reports and summaries of the geographic distribution and frequency of infections as well as of special risks these infections impose on hiv-infected persons. the recommendations incorporate guidelines published by the centers for disease control (cdc) and the world health organization. study selection: sources containing the most recent, pertinent information. data synthesis: infections of the gastrointestinal tract are common in all travelers to developing countries and are likely to be more frequent, severe, and difficult to treat in hiv-infected persons. prominent among the respiratory tract infections that pose special risks to hiv-infected travelers are influenza, measles, and fungal infections with geographically focal distributions. the most common vector-borne infection, malaria, appears to present relatively little, if any, incremental risk to the hiv-infected traveler. persons with hiv infection respond less vigorously to vaccines and have a higher frequency of adverse reactions to antimicrobial agents. nevertheless, immunizations and chemoprophylaxis can reduce the risk for many travel-related infections. additionally, there are protective measures that travelers can take to minimize exposure to pathogens. conclusions: by understanding the risks for disease in different destinations, assessing patients' hiv status, counseling patients about travel plans and personal protective measures, appropriately using vaccines and chemoprophylaxis, as well as instituting early treatment of infection, physicians can help hiv-infected patients to preserve their health during travel.
v-ha-ras transgene abrogates the initiation step in mouse skin tumorigenesis: effects of phorbol esters and retinoic acid. experimental carcinogenesis has led to a concept that defines two discrete stages in the development of skin tumors: (i) initiation, which is accomplished by using a mutagen that presumably activates a protooncogene, and (ii) promotion, which is a reversible process brought about most commonly by repeated application of phorbol esters. we have created a transgenic mouse strain that carries the activated v-ha-ras oncogene fused to the promoter of the mouse embryonic alpha-like, zeta-globin gene. unexpectedly, these animals developed papillomas at areas of epidermal abrasion and, because abrasion can also serve as a tumor-promoting event in mutagen-treated mouse skin, we tested these mice for their ability to respond to phorbol ester application. within 6 weeks virtually all treated carrier mice had developed multiple papillomas, some of which went on to develop squamous cell carcinomas and, more frequently, underlying sarcomas. we conclude that the oncogene "preinitiates" carrier mice, replacing the initiation/mutagenesis step and immediately sensitizing them to the action of tumor promoters. in addition, treatment of the mice with retinoic acid dramatically delays, reduces, and often completely inhibits the appearance of promoter-induced papillomas. this strain has use in screening tumor promoters and for assessing antitumor and antiproliferative agents.
factors affecting survival in total artificial heart recipients before transplantation. to identify factors affecting the successful bridge to transplantation, experience with 32 recipients of the jarvik-7 artificial heart was reviewed. between patients with and without a successful bridge, there were no significant differences in preoperative hepatorenal function or postoperative hemodynamics, but there were significant differences in body size. when recipients were divided according to body surface areas of less than or greater than 1.8 m2, the smaller patients more frequently developed respirator dependence (73% vs. 18%, p less than 0.01), renal failure (53% vs. 18%, p less than 0.05), and hepatic failure and sepsis, resulting in less frequent qualification for transplantation (20% vs. 65%, p less than 0.05). there were no successful bridge operations in seven patients with body surface areas of less than 1.7 m2, and only one success in nine patients who were less than 170 cm in height, despite use of a smaller stroke volume model. the smaller patients had poorer ventricular filling, which was largely compensated for by the drive controls set for significantly longer diastole and higher vacuum, resulting in similar hemodynamics between the groups. the results suggest that device fitting as manifested by body size is an important factor affecting major organ recovery and subsequent transplantation in recipients of the jarvik-7 artificial heart. a paracorporeal device may be advisable for patients with body surface areas of less than 1.8 m2 or who were less than 175 cm in height until an even smaller model with a better fit in the thorax becomes available.
gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance, with recovery after treatment. a 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10(9) l-1, consisting of 10% segmented neutrophils, 50% monocytes and 40% lymphocytes. a bone marrow aspirate showed 20% promyelocytes and 10% blasts with monoblastic features, and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis. in cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears. the test for heparin-precipitable protein ('cryofibrinogen') was strongly positive. during the following year, these signs and symptoms persisted, and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region. gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach, which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-hodgkin's lymphoma. after successful removal of the tumour, and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations, the patient recovered completely, and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared.
fusiform dilatations of the carotid artery following radical surgery of childhood craniopharyngiomas. between 1982 and 1990, a series of 31 children with craniopharyngiomas underwent initial surgery at the children's hospital of philadelphia with an attempt at total tumor removal. nine (29%) of them were found to have fusiform dilatation of the supraclinoid carotid artery either at the time of surgery for recurrence (one patient) or on routine surveillance with enhanced computerized tomography 6 to 18 months postoperatively (eight patients). the finding of carotid enlargement was confirmed in seven cases with magnetic resonance angiography and in one case with a formal arteriogram. eight of the nine patients remain alive at a mean of 3.7 years after diagnosis. none have experienced hemorrhage or other symptoms referrable to fusiform dilatation of the carotid artery, which is believed to result from surgical manipulation of the carotid artery.
the consortium to establish a registry for alzheimer's disease (cerad). part ii. standardization of the neuropathologic assessment of alzheimer's disease. the neuropathology task force of the consortium to establish a registry for alzheimer's disease (cerad) has developed a practical and standardized neuropathology protocol for the postmortem assessment of dementia and control subjects. the protocol provides neuropathologic definitions of such terms as "definite alzheimer's disease" (ad), "probable ad," "possible ad," and "normal brain" to indicate levels of diagnostic certainty, reduce subjective interpretation, and assure common language. to pretest the protocol, neuropathologists from 15 participating centers entered information on autopsy brains from 142 demented patients clinically diagnosed as probable ad and on eight nondemented patients. eighty-four percent of the dementia cases fulfilled cerad neuropathologic criteria for definite ad. as increasingly large numbers of prospectively studied dementia and control subjects are autopsied, the cerad neuropathology protocol will help to refine diagnostic criteria, assess overlapping pathology, and lead to a better understanding of early subclinical changes of ad and normal aging.
osler-weber-rendu disease and pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas. deterioration and embolotherapy during pregnancy. several reports have implicated pregnancy as a cause of deterioration in patients with pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas. we report a 27-year-old woman with multiple pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas who required coil spring embolotherapy in her 24th week of pregnancy due to a spontaneous hemothorax and hypoxemia.
epidemiologic studies demonstrating increased morning incidence of sudden cardiac death. to determine if sudden cardiac death shows a circadian variation, the mortality records of the massachusetts population and the framingham heart study were analyzed. the massachusetts mortality data analysis revealed an increased morning incidence for out-of-hospital cardiac deaths similar to that previously described for nonfatal myocardial infarction. the records of the framingham heart study allowed more comprehensive analysis of the time of sudden cardiac death. in this study, a prominent circadian variation was also identified in which frequency of sudden cardiac death increased sharply between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.; distribution was fairly even throughout the rest of the day. this circadian pattern may be explained in part by physiologic changes that increase the likelihood of ventricular fibrillation or increase the risk of thrombosis in the morning hours. the possible role of the morning increase in physical and mental activity as a trigger of sudden cardiac death requires further investigation.
comparative efficacy of short-term versus long-term cefoxitin prophylaxis against postoperative infection after radical hysterectomy: a prospective study. we report the results of a randomized, double-blind comparison of short-term versus long-term cefoxitin prophylaxis against infections after radical abdominal hysterectomy with pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy. of 113 evaluable patients, 54 (47.8%) received short-term (three doses) and 59 (52.2%) long-term (12 doses) prophylaxis with intravenous cefoxitin (2 g per dose). no significant differences in demographics, preoperative risk factors, or clinical course were detected between the two groups; nor did we detect significant differences in the incidence of surgical-site-related infections (7.4 versus 5.1%, respectively, p = .61), postoperative urinary tract infection, or other febrile morbidity. we conclude that short-term and long-term cefoxitin prophylaxis are equally effective for the prevention of post-operative surgical-site-related infections after radical hysterectomy.
scleral buckle revision to treat recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment. recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment sometimes occurs following scleral buckling surgery in the absence of advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy (grade c-2 or greater). such detachments can occur because: 1) the scleral buckle is not properly positioned beneath the original break; 2) the buckle is not high enough; 3) the break is elevated off the buckle due to progressive vitreous traction; 4) there are new breaks; and 5) chorioretinal adhesion is insufficient. techniques that may be useful for reattaching the retina in these cases include: 1) adding scleral buckling material to augment the original buckle; 2) modifying the existing buckle without adding new material; 3) replacing the original buckle with other material; 4) re-treating inadequately closed breaks; and 5) combinations of these four techniques. vitrectomy may be avoided in many cases.
chest infection following head and neck surgery: a pilot study. this paper reports the results of a pilot study which examined factors associated with chest infection following head and neck surgery. the overall rate of chest infection was 11%, but was 20% in those patients having a tracheotomy. no infection developed in patients with an intact airway. other factors which emerged as possibly important were the duration of surgery and heavy regular alcohol intake. we recommend that prophylactic antibiotics be continued for at least 48 h in patients requiring a tracheotomy as part of their head and neck surgery. this is against the trend of shorter antibiotic regimens recommended for prevention of wound infections.
resections and reconstructions for tumors of the distal radius. the primary objective in surgical management of the patient with a distal radius tumor is control of the disease. accurate staging and diagnostic methods applied preoperatively will predict not only the amount of resection necessary to obtain adequate tumor margins, but also the amount of remaining bone and soft tissues to assist reconstruction. with this information, a method of reconstruction can be chosen that provides the patient optimal long-term function and stability with predictable results and the fewest potential complications.
in-hospital symptoms of psychological stress as predictors of long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction in men. the impact of high levels of psychological stress symptoms in the hospital after an acute myocardial infarction (ami) was examined over 5 years among 461 men who took part in a trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention. psychological stress was assessed using the 20-item general health questionnaire (ghq) 1 to 2 days before hospital discharge. once discharged, patients in the treatment group responded to the ghq by telephone on a monthly basis and, when they reported high levels of stress symptoms (ghq greater than or equal to 5), received visits from nurses to help them deal with their life problems. control patients received routine medical care after discharge. post-hoc subgroup analyses based on life-table methods showed that, for patients receiving routine care after discharge, high stress (ghq greater than or equal to 5) was associated with a close to threefold increase in risk of cardiac mortality over 5 years (p = 0.0003) and an approximately 1.5-fold increase in risk of reinfarction over the same period (p = 0.09). in contrast, highly stressed patients who took part in the 1-year program of stress monitoring and intervention did not experience any significant long-term increase in risk. although program impact was significant in terms of reduction of both cardiac mortality (p = 0.006) and ami recurrences (p = 0.004) among highly stressed patients, there was little evidence of impact among patients with low levels of stress in the hospital.
inadvertent clavicular fractures caused by "chiropractic" manipulations in an infant: an unusual form of pseudoabuse. a nine-month-old child was found unresponsive in his crib, five hours after his last feeding. at autopsy, there were no external or internal signs of abuse or neglect, and a few visceral pleural and epicardial petechiae were consistent with the sudden infant death syndrome (sids). however, postmortem total body radiographs revealed healing, symmetrical clavicular fractures and a healing left medial humeral epicondyle fracture. the parents had no explanation for these injuries and denied causing any harm to the child. the location and nature of the fractures strongly suggested abusive origin, and the case was reported to the police and the district attorney's office as child abuse. during the investigation, information from the parents indicated that the child had undergone "chiropractic" manipulations by an unlicensed therapist, between three and four weeks prior to death, to correct supposed "shoulder dislocations." this time interval correlated with the histologic age of the injuries, and the history explained their unusual bilateral location and appearance. the parents were exonerated of abuse charges, and the death was ascribed to sids.
twelve-year comparison of a bjork-shiley mechanical heart valve with porcine bioprostheses background. patients undergoing heart-valve replacement may receive a mechanical prosthesis, necessitating lifelong anticoagulant treatment, or a porcine bioprosthesis, which involves no absolute need for anticoagulants. methods. we carried out a randomized, prospective trial to compare the durability of the bjork-shiley mechanical prosthesis (spherical tilting-disk model) and the incidence of valve-related complications with those variables in the hancock and the carpentier-edwards porcine prostheses. the mitral valve was replaced in 261 patients, the aortic valve in 211, and both in 61; the survivors have been followed up for a mean of 12 years. results. we found a trend toward improved actuarial survival after 12 years with the bjork-shiley prosthesis, but this trend was not statistically significant (group with bjork-shiley valve vs. group with porcine valve [mean +/- se], 51.5 +/- 3.2 vs. 44.4 +/- 3.2 percent; p = 0.08). there was no significant difference in the actuarial incidence of reoperation after 5 years, but after 12 years significantly more patients with a porcine prosthesis had undergone reoperation (8.5 +/- 2.0 vs. 37.1 +/- 4.1 percent, p less than 0.001). an analysis combining death and reoperation as end points for an actuarial assessment of survival with the original prosthesis intact confirmed that the patients with bjork-shiley shiley prostheses had improved survival (48.6 +/- 3.2 vs. 30.0 +/- 3.0 percent after 12 years, p less than 0.001). bleeding requiring hospitalization or blood transfusion was significantly more frequent in the patients with bjork-shiley prostheses (18.6 +/- 3.2 vs. 7.1 +/- 2.3 percent after 12 years, p less than 0.01). there was no significant difference after 12 years in the actuarial occurrence of embolism (bjork-shiley vs. porcine, 21.1 +/- 3.1 vs. 26.4 +/- 3.5 percent) or endocarditis (3.7 +/- 1.4 vs 4.6 +/- 1.6 percent). conclusions. survival with an intact valve is better among patients with the bjork-shiley spherical tilting-disk prosthesis than among patients with porcine bioprostheses, but use of the bjork-shiley valve carries an attendant increased risk of bleeding associated with the need for anticoagulant treatment.
x-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia: linkage to phosphoglycerate kinase at xq13. molecular linkage analysis was performed on a kindred with x-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia. two-point analysis with a dna probe for phosphoglycerate kinase (pgk1), which maps to xq13, suggested linkage to the disorder by a lod score of at least 2.60 at a recombination fraction of zero. the disease in this kindred appears to be clinically and genetically distinct from that in previously reported families with x-linked hereditary ataxia or spastic paraparesis. no mapping data are available for inherited x-linked sideroblastic anemia without neurologic abnormalities. however, structural alterations of band xq13 may be involved in the development of idiopathic acquired sideroblastic anemia. no alterations in the restriction patterns of two x-linked genes involved in erythrocyte formation-i.e., a dna-binding protein (gf-1) and 5-aminolevulinate synthase (alas)-were detected in dna from affected males, arguing against a large deletion in either of these candidate genes.
flow cytometric dna content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland. correlation of histologic features and prognosis. flow cytometric analysis of nuclear dna content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived, paraffin-embedded tissues. the dna content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course. ten carcinomas (38%) were aneuploid and 16 (62%) diploid. aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture, lymph node metastases, and advanced clinical stage, as compared with diploid carcinomas. other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal dna content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension. our data suggest that dna content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma.
imaging of pharyngeal and laryngeal carcinomas with indium-111-labeled monoclonal anti-cea antibodies. localization of primary tumors, metastases, or recurrences in 13 consecutive patients with histological verification of squamous cell or adenocarcinoma was made with radioimmunodetection using monoclonal radiolabeled anti-cea antibody. all surgical specimens stained immunohistochemically, except one, were positive for cea. of the known 19 tumor sites 17 were visualized in antibody scans. there were two positive findings that did not prove to be positive during 12 month follow-up. the scintigram findings did not correlate with cea serum concentrations that, with one exception, were normal in all patients.
simian virus 40 small tumor antigen and an amino-terminal domain of large tumor antigen share a common transforming function. the 82-residue amino-terminal sequences of simian virus 40 large tumor antigen (tag) and small tumor antigen (tag) are identical. genetic analysis of tag lacking amino acids 1-82 revealed that it was transformation-defective, as revealed by the agar growth assay, except when introduced in the presence of tag. since the latter, alone, lacks overt transforming activity, it would appear that the function of the sequence common to tag and tag is necessary, but not sufficient, for tag transforming activity and that tag can provide that function or its equivalent in trans. thus, tag may, in part, be viewed as a "portable" copy of a tag functional domain.
age-related spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in a german community. we investigated incidence, age distribution in relation to etiology, and localization of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in 100 consecutive cases. incidence in the total population of the giessen area was estimated to be greater than 11/100,000 inhabitants/yr and increased with age. there was a trend toward higher incidence in males. overall mortality was 27%, 22% of 58 patients aged less than 70 years and 33% of 42 patients aged greater than or equal to 70 years. hypertensive putaminal hematoma showed the highest mortality rate (42%, 10 of 24 cases). chronic alcoholism and anticoagulant medication influenced the mortality rate unfavourably. we found the following localizations and etiologies to have a specific relation with age: 1) lobar hematomas from vascular malformations, group aged less than 40 years; 2) hypertensive putaminal hematomas and hypertensive thalamic hematomas, group aged 40-69 years; and 3) lobar hematomas, group aged greater than or equal to 70 years. alcoholism was an additional factor in 38% of the 13 middle-aged men with hypertensive putaminal hematomas. fourteen cases of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma were possibly due to cerebral amyloid angiopathy. six of these 14 patients had recurrent lobar hematomas, but only three of the six could be histologically investigated. in these three cases, cerebral amyloid angiopathy was proven.
one hundred percent incidence of hemidiaphragmatic paresis associated with interscalene brachial plexus anesthesia as diagnosed by ultrasonography. interscalene brachial plexus anesthesia for shoulder surgery routinely includes sensory anesthesia of the fourth and fifth cervical nerves. the authors reasoned that some degree of diaphragm paralysis should result from interscalene blocks that produce surgical c3-c5 sensory anesthesia. in this investigation, ultrasonography was used to study the incidence of ipsilateral hemidiaphragmatic paresis during routine interscalene block, as it is a practical, sensitive, and low-risk method for diagnosing hemidiaphragmatic function without radiation exposure. thirteen healthy patients received interscalene blocks using a paresthesia technique with 34-52 ml 1.5% mepivacaine with added epinephrine and bicarbonate. all developed cervical sensory anesthesia. data were collected before and 2, 5, and 10 min after injection, and, when possible (11 of 13 patients), at hourly intervals after surgery. changes from normal to paradoxical motion of the ipsilateral hemidiaphragm were seen in all 13 patients during sniff and mueller maneuvers within 5 min (in 11 of 13 patients at 2 min). diaphragmatic motion returned to normal in 10 of 11 patients between 3 and 4 h after injection and in the remaining patient by the fifth hour after injection. diaphragmatic paresis appears to be an inevitable consequence of interscalene brachial plexus block when providing anesthesia sufficient for shoulder surgery.
direct co2 laser "revascularization" of the myocardium. evidence of regional myocardial perfusion and contractile function after direct co2 laser myocardial revascularization (dlr) is lacking. we examined myocardial segment shortening, adenine nucleotide concentrations, and regional blood flow after dlr of the left anterior descending coronary artery (lad) distribution before and after its proximal ligation in seven anesthetized conditioned dogs. sonomicrometry assessed myocardial fiber shortening and radioactive microspheres were used to estimate baseline regional blood flows. cardiopulmonary bypass was followed by cardioplegia arrest. laser channels (1 mm diameter) were made every 3 to 5 mm in the lad region with an 80 watt laser-sonics co2 unit. bypass was terminated, the lad occluded, and parameters reassessed. core samples of myocardium from the lased lad and control circumflex area were taken to assess adenine nucleotides. after occlusion, lad distribution blood flow and myocardial shortening were reduced to pre-lasting ischemic controls. adenine nucleotides were reduced in the lad region relative to the control cmx area. dlr cannot be relied upon to acutely revascularize the ischemic myocardium.
pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive patient with prior granulomatous aortitis. a 59-year-old man showed asynchronous development of noninfectious granulomatous aortitis with aneurysm, followed 9 months later by pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in association with elevated serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody levels. to our knowledge, the combination of large artery vasculitis and small vessel systemic vasculitis (capillaritis) has not been previously reported. this case may represent a hybrid type of systemic vasculitis combining features of giant cell arteritis and wegener's granulomatosis.
long-term effect of mexiletine on left ventricular function and relation to suppression of ventricular arrhythmia. the effects of oral mexiletine on left ventricular (lv) ejection fraction (ef) and ventricular arrhythmias--and a possible relation between these effects--were evaluated during 3 months of therapy in 29 patients with chronic ventricular premature complexes (vpcs) and a moderately reduced to normal lvef by 24-hour holter monitoring and by radionuclide ventriculography at rest and during maximum tolerable exercise testing. after an average titration period of 13 days, a mean daily mexiletine dose of 739 mg was maintained throughout the treatment. at the end of titration and after 3 months of treatment, patients with a baseline lvef less than or equal to 40% (group 2) responded with a median reduction of the hourly vpc rate by 90 and 81%, respectively, compared with 79 and 72% in those with a baseline lvef greater than 40% (group 1). couplets and runs of ventricular tachycardia were almost completely suppressed in nearly all patients. a single patient had a proarrhythmic increase in vpcs during treatment. compared with baseline, there were no significant changes in resting or exercise lvef after 1 or 3 months of treatment in either of the 2 groups of patients. no correlation was found between treatment-induced changes in arrhythmia frequency and in resting ef. no symptoms of congestive heart failure developed. the study confirms that long-term use of mexiletine is efficacious and relatively free of cardiac depressant effects even in patients with diminished lv function.
liver and pancreas: improved spin-echo t1 contrast by shorter echo time and fat suppression at 1.5 t. t1-weighted spin-echo magnetic resonance (mr) images have had limited soft-tissue contrast at 1.5 t. the authors investigated the effects of echo-time (te) minimization and fat suppression on mr images of the liver and pancreas. two sets of mr images were obtained with identical repetition times and other parameters. in 10 subjects with seven liver lesions, images with tes of 20 and 12 msec were compared. in 18 additional subjects with seven liver lesions and five pancreatic carcinomas, images with identical tes but with and without fat suppression were compared. contrast-to-noise ratios (cnrs) were greater with a te of 12 msec than with a te of 20 msec for liver versus spleen (7.6 vs 4.9, p = .014) and liver versus lesion (6.9 vs 3.9, p = .031). in patients without fatty liver, cnr for six lesions versus liver was greater (9.5 vs 6.0, p = .014) with fat suppression. cnr between glandular pancreas and cancer was most conspicuous with fat suppression, but fat planes were less distinct. minimization of te improves t1-weighted images significantly. fat suppression also improves cnr, but the disadvantages of fat suppression do not allow elimination of conventional t1-weighted images.
intraoperative ultrasonography: an important surgical adjunct for intramedullary tumors. the echographic characteristics of 186 suspected intramedullary spinal cord tumors were reviewed. ultrasonography was found to be specific in distinguishing the tumor type, the extent of the lesion, and the presence and type of associated cysts. ultrasonography greatly facilitates the selection of respective sites for the placement of a myelotomy, and for initiation of the resection. additionally, this indispensable adjunct provides ongoing images that allow the preoperative plan to be precisely followed in a surgical field where anatomical landmarks are limited and the margin for error is minimal.
clinical differentiation of fulminant wilsonian hepatitis from other causes of hepatic failure. establishing a diagnosis of fulminant wilson's disease can be difficult because kayser-fleischer rings may not be present and parameters of copper metabolism, including serum and urinary copper, and serum ceruloplasmin levels are neither specific nor diagnostic. in this study, ratios of both the serum alkaline phosphatase to total bilirubin and aspartate transaminase to alanine transaminase were constructed to evaluate their usefulness in differentiating fulminant hepatic failure caused by wilson's disease (n = 6) from other etiologies (n = 43). an analysis of the data showed that cutoff values of less than 2.0 for the alkaline phosphatase-total bilirubin ratio and greater than 4.0 for the aspartate transaminase ratio were associated with a diagnosis of fulminant hepatic failure caused by wilson's disease only (p less than 0.001). the alkaline phosphatase-total bilirubin ratio of less than 2.0 provided 100% sensitivity and specificity in identifying fulminant hepatic failure caused by wilson's disease from other types of fulminant hepatic failure.
hormonal receptors in locally advanced breast cancer: change with response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? twenty-one cancers in 20 patients with locally advanced breast cancer were studied. incisional biopsy was performed without using electrocautery. tissue was obtained for histology and estrogen (er) and progesterone (pr) receptors. patients received chemotherapy after biopsy. all responded and had radical mastectomy performed. tissue was removed from the mastectomy specimen to confirm residual tumor and for repeat receptor measurements. initial receptor levels were negative in 13 cancers. following chemotherapy, both er and pr levels were unchanged in 11 cancers. levels in one cancer changed from er-pr- to er+pr- and one changed from er-pr- to er+pr+. six cancers were er+pr+ at initial examination. repeat receptor levels after chemotherapy were er+pr+ in three. one er+pr+ tumor became er-pr+, one changed to er+pr-, and one to er-pr-. one er+pr- cancer remained er+pr- after treatment and an er-pr+ cancer became er-pr- after treatment. chemotherapy dose not significantly alter hormonal levels in breast cancer tissue.
corpus callosotomy for intractable seizures in the pediatric age group. the results of corpus callosotomy in 18 patients 16 years old and younger are presented. eighty-three percent of our patients have had a significant improvement from the surgery (a decrease in seizure frequency of greater than 80% or no longer having generalized atonic, tonic, or tonic-clonic seizures). the procedure seems to be well tolerated in young patients, and we have not noted a postoperative deterioration in behavior, memory, or language function in our patients. one of our patients died in status epilepticus 3 months after surgery. nevertheless, we have not encountered any serious morbidity in our other patients. corpus callosotomy can be considered for children with intractable seizures, especially when generalized atonic, tonic, or tonic-clonic (whether primary or secondary) seizures are the major seizure type.
systemic and renal production of thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin in decompensated liver disease and hepatorenal syndrome. to assess the role of altered renal and systemic production of thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin in the hepatorenal syndrome, urinary excretion of their major renal and extrarenal metabolites was measured in patients with compensated and decompensated liver disease, chronic renal failure, and hepatorenal syndrome. urinary excretion rates of all prostanoids (renal and extrarenal) were increased in subjects with liver disease compared with normal controls. moreover, they were considerably higher in subjects with severe hepatic decompensation but good renal function compared with those with hepatorenal syndrome. in contrast, the excretion rate of all metabolites was reduced in patients with chronic renal failure. the excretion rate of all metabolites was markedly elevated during the early stages of hepatorenal syndrome and decreased in parallel with creatinine clearance. when corrected for creatinine clearance, there was a strong correlation between prostanoid excretion and serum bilirubin in subjects with liver disease; there was no difference, however, in the excretion of renal and extrarenal prostanoids between hepatorenal syndrome and severe hepatic decompensation. it is concluded that hepatic decompensation is associated with a progressive increase in prostanoid excretion but that changes in production of prostacyclin or thromboxane a2 are unlikely to be major factors in the pathogenesis of the hepatorenal syndrome.
spinal catheter anaesthesia for caesarean section in a patient with spina bifida. a patient with grossly deformed vertebral anatomy, scheduled for elective caesarean section, expressed her wish to stay fully awake during the procedure. epidural anaesthesia was considered to be impracticable, while dural puncture appeared possible only at thoracic level. spinal anaesthesia using a subarachnoid catheter placed at t7-8 was employed successfully.
prognostic factors in primary retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas. we analyzed independent treatment variables (age, sex, signs and symptoms, site, size, histopathologic findings, grade, and clinical presentation) and treatment-dependent variables (resectability, type of operation, surgical margins, surgical boundaries, microscopic margins, adjuvant radiotherapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy) in 80 patients with primary retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas admitted from 1982 through 1988. both univariate and multivariate analysis of survival and disease-free survival were performed. the major factor in survival outcome was the ability to completely resect the lesion. when the 62 patients who underwent complete resection were examined, the only independent prognostic factor for both survival and disease-free survival was grade. we conclude that completeness of resection and grade of the lesion are primary determinants of survival. once all tumor is macroscopically removed, no advantage could be demonstrated by more extensive surgical resection or current adjuvant therapy.
rectal examination in patients with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen objective--to determine whether rectal examination provides any diagnostic information in patients admitted to hospital with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. design--casualty officer or surgical registrar recorded symptoms and signs on admission on detailed forms. final diagnosis was noted on discharge from hospital. setting--district general hospital. patients--1204 consecutive patients admitted to hospital with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen as their major complaint; 1028 had a rectal examination on admission. main outcome measures--odds ratio for each symptom and sign related to final diagnosis. results of multiple logistic regression analysis for acute appendicitis. results--right sided rectal tenderness, present in 309 of those examined, was more common in patients with acute appendicitis (odds ratio 1.34, p less than 0.05). this odds ratio was considerably less than that for other clinical signs--namely, tenderness in the right lower quadrant (odds ratio 5.09), rebound tenderness (3.34), guarding (3.07), and muscular rigidity in the abdomen (5.03). in the logistic regression analysis of patients with acute appendicitis, when allowance was made for the presence or absence of rebound tenderness, rectal tenderness on the right lost its significance. six patients had masses palpable rectally, of which three were palpable on abdominal examination; the other three patients had acute appendicitis. no other unexpected diagnoses were established, and no useful additional diagnostic information was obtained by routine rectal examination. conclusion--if patients presenting with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen are tested for rebound tenderness then rectal examination does not give any further diagnostic information.
fluorescein angiography in ciliary body melanomas. we retrospectively studied the value of iris fluorescein angiography in predicitng benignity or malignancy in 10 cases of ciliary body melanoma with iris extension. no correlation between fluorescein-angiographic appearance and histopathologic features was observed. fluorescein angiography adds little to the management of ciliary body melanomas with iris extension.
very low birth weight children: behavior problems and school difficulty in a national sample we addressed three questions concerning the behavioral and academic status of low and very low birth weight infants through a secondary analysis of the 1981 national health interview survey--child health supplement: (1) in children born with very low birth weight, what is the risk of behavior problems and school difficulty compared with that in heavier low birth weight and normal birth weight children? (2) what are the correlates of school difficulty? (3) are behavior problems associated with school difficulty when variables are controlled for these correlates? the analysis revealed that 34% of very low birth weight children could be characterized as having school difficulty, compared with 20% and 14% of the other groups, respectively, and that they were more likely to have higher scores on the hyperactive subscale of the behavior problems index. although a broad array of sociodemographic factors correlated with school difficulty, very low birth weight and hyperactivity scores contributed independently to the risk of academic problems. we conclude that very low birth weight infants are at risk of having school problems that are in part associated with hyperactive behavior.
anterior granulomatous uveitis in patients with multiple sclerosis. granulomatous uveitis has infrequently been described as a manifestation of the autoimmune phenomena of multiple sclerosis (ms). the authors describe six cases of anterior granulomatous uveitis in patients with ms. all six patients had features of iridocyclitis and three patients had features of periphlebitis, which were suggestive of granulomatous disease. however, each patient had neurologic symptoms and signs consistent with ms and a negative laboratory workup for sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, and syphilis. testing for ms in a subgroup of patients with granulomatous uveitis of unknown etiology and neurologic symptoms may result in a diagnosis.
predicting the severity of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis. study objectives: the syndrome of rhabdomyolysis associated with cocaine use has been recently described, but the incidence, severity, risk factors, and complications are unknown. this study sought to describe the spectrum of the syndrome and identify clinical features of patients at risk. design: retrospective case series with analysis of common clinical features. setting: medical emergency department of an urban teaching hospital serving an indigent population. types of participants: ed patients with acute cocaine intoxication and a serum creatine kinase (all mm) of more than 500 u/l (8.3 ukat/l) who were admitted for in-hospital management. measurements and main results: twenty-nine patients, representing 5% of cocaine-related patient visits, were identified over 20 months. patients were divided into three groups: mild, characterized by anxiety, tachycardia, diaphoresis, dyspnea, or chest pain; moderate, characterized by delirium, agitation, fever, leukocytosis, or an elevated serum creatinine; and severe, characterized by seizure, coma, hypotension, arrhythmia, or cardiac arrest. there was a significant association between the rating system for level of intoxication and the severity of rhabdomyolysis and its complications (p less than .01). patients at highest risk for complications of rhabdomyolysis were those in the moderate or severe groups. conclusion: this classification system may be useful for the management of patients with acute cocaine intoxication, predicting those patients in whom aggressive therapy should be initiated in the ed to minimize the complications of rhabdomyolysis.
bacteremia in an ambulatory setting. improved outcome in children treated with antibiotics. we undertook a study of 414 bacteremic patients (167 with haemophilus influenzae and 247 with streptococcus pneumoniae bacteremia) to evaluate their clinical presentation, laboratory and clinical results, and subsequent outcomes. patients with h influenzae bacteremia were more likely to have soft-tissue foci, poorer clinical appearance at presentation, and be at higher risk for subsequent serious focal infections, persistent bacteremia, and subsequent hospital admissions than patients with s pneumoniae. patients with h influenzae bacteremia had a 21.1-fold increase in risk of meningitis (95% confidence interval [ci] of 3.8 to 78.0) compared with those with s pneumoniae. the odds ratio for initial lumbar puncture was 5.25 (95% ci [1.1-23.6]). ambulatory patients treated with antibiotics at presentation were less likely to develop new serious soft-tissue infections, persistent bacteremia, or to require subsequent hospital admissions than untreated patients. the effect of treatment was greater for patients with s pneumoniae than those with h influenzae. careful follow-up and reevaluation of patients with presumptive bacteremia is essential because treated and untreated patients can still develop serious soft-tissue infections.
reversible brain death. a manifestation of amitriptyline overdose. tricyclic antidepressants are known to cause central nervous system depression. however, a generalized depression of brainstem functions is rarely reported. we report a patient in deep coma with complete absence of brain-stem reflexes after she had taken a large quantity of amitriptyline. with continuous supportive treatment, she eventually regained all neurologic function and made a full recovery.
use of omeprazole in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome. omeprazole, a substituted benzimidazole, has been shown to be a potent inhibitor of gastric acid secretion in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes). we review our experience, as well as the published data on 210 patients with zes who have required omeprazole for control of gastric acid hypersecretion over the past seven years. the dose of omeprazole required in individual patients ranged from 10 to 180 mg/24 hr with 20-60% requiring a split dosage regimen. omeprazole was effective in approximately 99% of the patients over a period ranging from 0.5 to 54 months. twenty-four percent of patients required an increase in omeprazole dose, while 26% required a decrease in dose. adverse effects attributable to omeprazole were reported in 2% of patients, and in all cases, they were mild (ie, rash, constipation, headache). there was no effect of omeprazole on serum gastrin concentration or on gastric endocrine cells in three studies. although one patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type-i syndrome (men-i) in this series developed a gastric carcinoid while taking omeprazole, evidence is presented that suggests the presence of men-i per se may be important in determining the development of gastric carcinoid in patients with zes. it is concluded that omeprazole is safe and effective in patients with zes, and in these patients, it is the drug of choice for the management of gastric acid hypersecretion. however, yearly assessment is indicated to clearly evaluate the long-term risk of gastric carcinoid as well as therapy directed at the gastrinoma itself.
giant breast hematoma requiring blood transfusion: an unusual complication after an echocardiographic study during thrombolytic therapy. we report on a patient in whom significant bleeding occurred during thrombolytic therapy. the bleeding occurred after an echocardiographic study, and it resulted in blood transfusion.
postural studies in pulsatile ocular blood flow: ii. chronic open angle glaucoma. the pulsatile ocular blood flow (pobf) has been recorded in 15 patients with chronic open angle glaucoma. measurements were performed during regular treatment with timolol 0.25% eyedrops, two weeks after withdrawal of this treatment, and then a further two weeks after its reinstitution. readings were taken with subjects in both the erect and supine positions by means of a pneumotonometric probe to measure intraocular pressure (iop), linked to a langham ocular blood flow system. assumption of the supine posture was associated with a significant increase in iop in all phases of the study. treatment with timolol lowered the mean iop in comparison with the untreated phase (-4.4 (sem 0.6) mmhg, p less than 0.001) but had no effect on the postural change. a significant reduction in pobf was recorded on assumption of the supine posture (-66 (sem 18) microliters/min, p less than 0.001), representing a mean decrement of 19%. however, there were no significant differences in pobf between treated and untreated phases of the study. comparison of the values obtained in patients with glaucoma (coag) after withdrawal of treatment with those in subjects with ocular hypertension revealed that there was no significant difference in intraocular pressure between the two groups. however, both pobf (-68 (sem 29) microliters/min) and the pulse amplitude of the intraocular pressure (ocular pulse: -0.45 (sem) 0.14 mmhg) were significantly lower in the coag patients. pulsatile ocular blood flow is significantly lower in patients with chronic open angle glaucoma. furthermore, the pobf and the postural response of these patients is not improved by the use of topical timolol therapy.
anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer. in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial, anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy (ampt, n = 77) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty (tvp, n = 69) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years. the mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years. one elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the tvp group. acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups, indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation. recurrent ulcers were more common after ampt (five) than tvp (two) (p = 0.29, n.s.). dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner (p less than 0.001) after tvp, with 31 instances as opposed to eight with ampt. the mean operating time was increased by 6 min when ampt was performed rather than tvp. the results of this study have shown that ampt is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall visick grading. however, continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure.
thyroid disease in the elderly. as people in our society live longer, it is important for clinicians to know more about problems commonly seen in the elderly. thyroid problems are especially important to understand because they do occur with rather high frequency, and their mode of presentation is frequently different from those seen in younger patients. the thyroid gland does undergo certain age-related changes in anatomy and physiology, but overall the thyroid is able to produce a normal amount of thyroid hormone throughout the years. hypothyroidism is frequently difficult to diagnose in the elderly, because many of the symptoms of hypothyroidism can easily be confused with symptoms of aging. when hypothyroidism is looked for in large population studies of elderly patients, the incidence varies from 1% to as high as 17%, with women being more commonly affected than men, and subclinical hypothyroidism being more common than overt hypothyroidism. virtually all cases of hypothyroidism are due to autoimmune thyroid disease, with most patients having measurable titers of thyroid autoantibodies. the therapy of hypothyroidism is done with extreme caution, as older patients are frequently very sensitive to the effects of excess thyroid hormone. in addition, the metabolism of thyroid hormone slows down with age, making the full replacement dose much less in an older patient than in a younger one. hyperthyroidism is also quite common, occurring in from 0.5% to 3% of all elderly patients. the presentation is frequently atypical, as patients often lack the hyperdynamic symptomatology and instead have a more sedated, apathetic presentation. weight loss and cardiac symptoms frequently predominate, and the presence of a goiter is frequently absent, making the diagnosis less obvious than in a younger patient. therapy is usually radioactive iodine, after an adequate course of antithyroid drugs, to render the patient euthyroid. thyroid nodules do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly, but most of them are not malignant. fine-needle aspiration for cytology is very helpful in determining which patients should be referred for surgery. well-differentiated cancers do predominate, but their course is frequently less predictable than in younger patients. lymphoma of the thyroid and undifferentiated cancers do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly. multinodular goiter, usually of longstanding, is frequently seen in elderly patients, and thyroid hormone suppressive therapy not only is not indicated but may contribute to exogenous hyperthyroidism.
gene amplification in human lung cancer. the myc family genes and other proto-oncogenes and growth factor genes. the development of human lung cancer may require multiple genetic deletions affecting a number of chromosomes, e.g., 1, 3, 11, 13, and 17. these genetic aberrations may induce the activation of proto-oncogenes (c-jun, ras, c-raf1) and the loss of tumor suppressor genes (p53). some of the activated proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are more selectively expressed or absent in small-cell lung cancer (l-myc, c-myb, c-scr, rb gene) or non-small-cell lung cancer (c-erbb-2, c-sis, c-fes). these genes may thus be of importance for selection of differentiation pathway. the c-myc oncogene is frequently amplified in small-cell lung cancer cell lines in a much higher frequency than in vivo. this indicates that c-myc seems to be related to tumor progression and a relatively late event in the lung cancer development. the uncontrolled production of multiple growth factors has been identified in human lung cancer cell lines. these factors can promote and inhibit the proliferation via paracrine and autocrine loops via specific receptors. the products from some of the activated proto-oncogenes (c-sis, c-erbb-2) are sequences homologous to a certain growth factor (pdgf) and a receptor (egf) identified in lung cancer. the production and action of these growth factors may be of major importance for further activation of proto-oncogenes via intracellular signal transduction and specific oncogenic activation leading to further tumor progression.
work and power in gait of stroke patients. biomechanical analysis of the work and power patterns involved in gait provides insight into the nature of gait deficits and suggests methods for improvement. the purpose of this study was to describe the work and power characteristics during gait for both limbs of hemiplegic patients, and to determine the work and power variables related to self-selected speeds of walking. the gait of 30 ambulatory adults between the ages of 47 and 79 years was studied using two-dimensional cinematography and force-plate data in a link-segment model. about 40% of the positive work required for walking was performed by the muscles of the affected side. major contributors were the ankle plantar flexors, hip flexors, and hip extensors. the results suggest interdependence between the limbs and between muscle groups of the same limb; a need for further research is indicated.
the pituitary-adrenocortical system of neonatal rats is responsive to stress throughout development in a time-dependent and stressor-specific fashion. the responsiveness of the neonatal hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (hpa) axis to stress has been thought to be impaired or diminished during the first 2 weeks of life. although we previously found full responsiveness of the hypothalamus-pituitary unit to adrenalectomy in young rats [days (d) 5-10], we failed to measure a significant increase in acth 10 min after ether administration until d14 of age. these studies were, therefore, designed to test the functional activation of the hpa axis after a single or repeated exposures to stress. both qualitative (time-course, stressor-specific, circadian) and quantitative changes in the acth and corticosterone (b) responses to various stressors were tested during the first 10 days of life. exposure to 3 min of ether vapor increased acth and b secretion (p less than 0.05-0.01) in 1-, 5-, and 10-d-old rats, with an increasing amplitude of both acth and b responses as a function of age. peak secretion of acth occurred 5 min after the onset of stress (122 +/- 3.8 to 359 +/- 54 pg/ml on d1-10), while the time of maximal b increased as a function of age. other stressors, such as maternal separation (12 h), cold (4 c; 60 min), or histamine injection (4 mg/kg bw, ip), provoked significant and stressor-specific acth and b responses in 10-d old rats. histamine administration increased acth secretion above that of vehicle-injected rats, with a peak of secretion 15 min after drug injection (272 +/- 29 vs. 127 +/- 8 pg/ml; p less than 0.01). histamine-induced b secretion peaked at 60 min (3.7 +/- 0.5 micrograms/dl). in contrast to early responses observed after ether, separation, or histamine stress, cold stress in 10-d-old pups caused a large acth and b release 4 h after the onset of cold compared to that in maternally deprived pups [acth: cold, 457 +/- 61 pg/ml; separated, 150 +/- 14 (p less than 0.01); b: cold, 3.3 +/- 0.4 micrograms/dl; separated, 1.8 +/- 0.2 (p less than 0.05)]. we did not detect morning-evening (am-pm) differences in either the pattern or the magnitude of the acth or b response to maternal separation or cold stress. suppression of cold-induced acth release by b injection (1 mg/kg bw) 2 h before stress was observed until 4 h after stress in the am and pm, whereas when given after cold, b was less effective in the pm than in the am at preventing the rise in acth levels observed at 4 h.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
gastrointestinal disease and oral contraception. oral contraceptive steroids play a major role in modern family planning. with the present tendency to decrease the doses of both estrogens and progestogens, any factor that reduces the bioavailability of the lower-dose preparations may have an impact on contraceptive protection. although ethinyl estradiol, the most commonly used oral estrogen, is liable to an enterohepatic circulation as unchanged drug, the commonly used progestogens are not. at present, no convincing evidence exists in the human subject that disruption of the enterohepatic circulation by antibiotics or antacids does reduce contraceptive efficacy of the pill. oral contraceptive steroids are mainly absorbed from the small bowel, and contraceptive efficacy depends on its absorptive capacity. enhanced passage of gastrointestinal contents or impaired absorption may thus contribute to contraceptive failures in patients who have chronic inflammatory disease, diarrhea, ileostomy, or jejunoileal bypass.
acetazolamide in the treatment of abnormal oculovestibular response. we treated seven patients with incapacitating vertigo elicited by walking down a grocery store aisle or driving a car. results of neurologic, neuro-ophthalmic, and neuroradiologic examinations were normal. episodic vertigo secondary to an abnormal oculovestibular response was diagnosed. each patient was given a trial of 250 to 500 mg of acetazolamide daily. symptoms resolved completely in four patients, two patients had near resolution of symptoms, and one patient had no relief. carbonic anhydrase activity has been demonstrated in the inner ear, and acetazolamide has been shown to affect the ion balance of the inner ear fluids.
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement. first case of c9 deficiency in europe. we describe the first cases, to our knowledge, of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family, of which two members--one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels--experienced bacterial meningitis. the index patient, a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years, presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis. no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found. complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component, while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity (measured using the ch50 assay) was only slightly reduced. a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patient's healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister, his son (who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis), and his niece, consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency. this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial, especially neisserial, infections.
pathological changes in levator palpebrae superioris muscle treated with botulinum toxin in a case of carotico-cavernous fistula. we describe the case of a patient with carotico-cavernous fistula who had botulinum toxin a to induce a protective ptosis 4.5 days before death. the levator palpebrae superioris muscle from both sides and the superior rectus muscle from the injected side were obtained for examination. the preserved samples were stained with haematoxylin and eosin, martius scarlet blue, glees, s100, dehydrogenase, atpase, and toluidine blue as well as being examined by electron microscopy. inflammation and oedema were found that were probably due to the carotico-cavernous fistula. axonal and some myelin sheath damage were also seen.
the management of primary fallopian tube carcinoma. the outcome of 30 patients with primary fallopian tube carcinoma is described. treatment varied over the 22 year period of accrual and included combinations of surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. there was an apparent increase in stage at treatment with time which was probably related to more precise staging at laparotomy and the greater use of computerized tomography. the median survival for all patients was 28 months and the 5-year survival was 18%. ten patients received postoperative chemotherapy for residual disease with an overall response rate of 80% and median progression-free and overall survival times of 14 and 21 months respectively. the pattern of relapse was similar to that seen in ovarian carcinoma, with all but one patient having the pelvis or abdomen as the main site of recurrence. primary fallopian tube carcinoma has a response to treatment and a tumour biology similar to that of ovarian carcinoma. it is recommended that the management of this uncommon malignancy should continue to be along the lines of ovarian carcinoma, with initial treatment by cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy for residual disease.
surgery or radiation for early cervical cancer. in summary, neither radiation nor surgery is clearly superior. the benefits of surgery include: 1) emotional satisfaction that the tumor has been removed, 2) accuracy of surgical staging, 3) preservation of the ovaries, 4) no secondary uterine cancer (a very uncommon problem), and 5) complications that are more readily correctable. radiation offers the major advantages of being useful in most patients regardless of age or medical condition and is the choice for large cancers. because stage ib cervical cancer is a very diverse pathological entity with a number of potential prognostic factors (including cell type, depth of invasion, tumor volume, lymphatic space involvement, and occult lymph node metastases), and because patients present with a number of other conditions (including excess weight, advanced age, prior pelvic surgery or infection, and severe medical illness), we are fortunate to have two good methods for treating cervical cancer. prospective randomized studies will be necessary in the future to better define specific advantages in the various clinical settings. but, in general, the following have proven most expedient: 1) class i hysterectomy, for microinvasive cancer of 3 mm invasion or less without lymphatic space involvement, 2) modified, extended hysterectomy (class ii) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for lesions of 3 mm and lymph vascular space involvement or when the lesion seems to just exceed 3 mm and for very early adenocarcinoma, 3) an extended hysterectomy (class iii) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for larger ia2, ib, and iia lesions that are less than 4 cm, particularly for the pregnant or younger patient, and when ovarian conservation is desired, 4) radiation therapy is used for lesions over 4 cm and for women with severe medical illness making extended hysterectomy too hazardous, 5) combination therapy and chemotherapy are now reserved for study in poor prognosis patients with very large lesions (greater than 6 cm), occult metastases, and unfavorable histologic criteria (table 2).
cerebrospinal fluid eicosanoid levels: endogenous pgd2 and ltc4 synthesis by antigen-presenting cells that migrate to the central nervous system. we analyzed csf from patients with multiple sclerosis, patients with other neurologic diseases, and healthy controls for the presence of prostaglandin (pg) e2, f2 alpha, d2, i, a, and leukotriene (lt) c4. control csf had little measurable pgs or lts. csf eicosanoids from patients with progressive ms were increased. we found pgd2 only in ms csf. csf monocytes from patients in active disease produced significantly increased pgd, pge, and ltc4 than paired peripheral blood monocytes and monocytes from healthy controls. we saw no significant difference in ltc4 production between ms and control peripheral blood monocytes.
durability of vein graft revision: the outcome of secondary procedures. occlusive lesions that reduced graft blood flow and ankle systolic pressure were identified in 83 femorodistal saphenous vein bypasses by use of duplex scanning or arteriography. sites of stenosis included vein conduit (n = 41), anastomoses (n = 20), outflow arteries (n = 15), or inflow (n = 9) arteries. one hundred three secondary procedures consisting of vein-patch angioplasty (n = 31), sequential (n = 21) or interposition (n = 17) graft placement, percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty (n = 17), or excision of the lesion and primary anastomosis (n = 16) were performed to correct primary (n = 85) or recurrent (n = 18) graft stenoses. cumulative graft patency after reintervention was 96% at 1 year, and 85% at 5 years. stenosis or occlusion of revision sites was less after excision (0 of 16) or replacement (1 of 17) of abnormal segments compared to vein-patch angioplasty (8 of 31) or balloon angioplasty (9 of 18). sequential or jump grafts constructed to improve graft outflow impaired by either myointimal or atherosclerotic occlusive lesions were the least durable secondary procedures. five of eight graft failures in this series resulted from sequential/jump graft occlusion. all categories of secondary procedures normalized graft and limb hemodynamics, although only one third of patients reported symptoms of limb ischemia before revision. surveillance of infrainguinal vein bypasses for occlusive lesions is a valid concept to salvage patent but hemodynamically-failing grafts. secondary procedures that excised the lesion, used autologous tissue reconstruction, and normalized hemodynamics at the revision site and in the vein bypass were associated with a low incidence of restenosis and prolonged graft patency.
a prospective comparison of rubidium-82 pet and thallium-201 spect myocardial perfusion imaging utilizing a single dipyridamole stress in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease the purpose of the present study is to prospectively compare myocardial perfusion imaging with rubidium-82 (82rb) by positron emission tomography (pet) with thallium-201 (201tl) imaging by single-photon emission tomography (spect) by recording both studies with a single dipyridamole handgrip stress, and reading both sets of images with the same display technique. in a series of 202 patients with previous coronary arteriography, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 82rb pet were 93%, 78%, and 90% and for 201tl spect 76%, 80%, and 77%, respectively. when 70 patients with previous therapeutic interventions were excluded, the remaining 132 patients showed a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 95%, 82% and 92% for 82rb pet and 79%, 76%, and 78% for 201tl spect. the improved contrast resolution of pet resulted in markedly superior images and a more confident identification of defects.
macroscopic and microscopic gut lesions in seronegative spondyloarthropathies. a retrospective study by ileocolonoscopy and multiple biopsies was performed on 96 patients with seronegative spondylarthropathy, 17 patients with osteoarthritis (oa) and 19 patients with chronic abdominal discomfort. under these conditions, inflammatory gut lesions were detected in 66.7% of the patients with spondyloarthropathy, 12.5% with oa and 15.8% with chronic abdominal discomfort. in 10 patients treated by sulfasalazine (salazopyrine), pathologic lesions disappeared simultaneously with an improvement of the rheumatic conditions. comparison between patients treated and untreated with nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs (nsaid) demonstrated that nsaid did not enter into the etiopathology of the intestinal lesions. our study therefore confirms the high incidence of inflammatory gut lesions among patients with spondylarthropathy which seems not to be related to nsaid therapy.
intraluminal fibrosis induced unilaterally by lobar instillation of cdcl2 into the rat lung. lung injury induced by intratracheal instillation of cadmium chloride (cdcl2) into the rat lung may serve as a model of human interstitial lung disease. in this study, cdcl2 solutions were instilled through a lobar bronchus into the left lung of the rat. two doses (400 micrograms or 50 micrograms of cdcl2, each in 400 microliters of neutral saline) were used and the morphologic changes occurring during the first 7 days after a single exposure were documented by light and electron microscopy. with the higher dose, inflammatory cells appeared in the alveolar interstitium 1 day after cdcl2 administration. edema and thickening of the alveolar walls were evident, as were damaged type i epithelial cells and denuded basement membranes. fibrin was found in the air spaces. within 2 days, inflammatory cells were seen in large numbers and fibroblasts were observed passing through gaps in the alveolar basement membranes into the air spaces. by 4 and 7 days after cdcl2, various forms of intraluminal fibrosis, including intrabronchiolar budding, mural incorporation, and obliterative changes, were observed. the contralateral lungs had normal-appearing architecture for all the time points investigated. in the lower dose exposure, gradients of alveolar damage were observed in which normal lung, interstitial fibrosis, and/or intraluminal fibrosis were seen within treated lungs. in the mildly damaged regions, interstitial fibrosis predominated, while in the more severely damaged regions, mural incorporation of the convoluted basement membranes was observed. the pulmonary fibrosis that developed appeared to be similar to some human interstitial lung diseases and may offer a system in which to study the regulation of collagen deposition and fibrosis development in these pathologic conditions.
the response of retroperitoneal fibrosis to tamoxifen. although retroperitoneal fibrosis is uncommon and histologically benign, it is a progressive and potentially fatal tumor. as the fibroblasts proliferate, they encase and may obstruct important retroperitoneal structures. medical therapy in the past has been ineffectual, and since the tumor usually cannot be resected, surgery consists of lysis or bypass of the involved structures. tamoxifen is effective in the treatment of desmoid tumors, and we report its use in two patients with retroperitoneal fibrosis with excellent results. the simplicity and safety of this treatment make tamoxifen an attractive choice of therapy.
the management of primary pulmonary hypertension. primary pulmonary hypertension is a clinical syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypertension in the absence of sufficient underlying cardiac, parenchymal pulmonary, or systemic disease to account for it. the population of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension is a heterogeneous one, both clinically and histologically. as the etiologic mechanisms are unknown, therapy is directed toward the consequences of the pulmonary vascular process. oxygen supplementation, the use of digoxin and diuretics for symptomatic heart failure, and anticoagulation all may have a role in treating primary pulmonary hypertension, although vasodilator therapy has been the main area of investigation. screening for vasodilator responsiveness, defining a favorable vasodilator effect, predicting long-term effectiveness, and deciding who to treat have all been controversial. new approaches, such as use of high-dose calcium channel-blocking agents and continuous intravenous infusion of prostacyclin (an investigational agent), have recently been proposed. when medical therapies are exhausted, heart-lung or lung transplantation has increasingly become an option for selected patients.
bone lesions secondary to benign phaeochromocytoma. four cases in childhood. metaphyseal sclerotic bone changes associated with benign phaeochromocytoma are very rare in childhood. we report four cases, in each of which the radiographic changes returned to normal after removal of the tumour.
vascular lesions of the intestines. this article reviews the pathology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding. in addition, a modified system for classifying such lesions, based on the author's personal experience with such lesions, is presented.
effects of screws and a sleeve on initial fixation in uncemented total knee tibial components. aseptic loosening of tibial components remains a serious problem in uncemented total knee arthroplasties. achieving rigid initial fixation of porous-coated components is one of the most important factors in promoting bone ingrowth. the results of a biomechanical study for micromovement of the tibial component under posteroanterior shear and axial compressive loading are presented. forty anatomic specimen tibiae were stress tested on a servohydraulic mechanical test machine to evaluate the effects of screws and a sleeve on initial fixation of the uncemented total knee tibial component. twenty specimens were used for posteroanterior shear loading and 20 for anterolateral axial compressive loading. four cancellous screws were inserted through holes of the tibial tray to pierce the cortex of the proximal tibia. the methylmethacrylate sleeve was applied to the central stem. rigidity of fixation was significantly improved by the combination of screws and a sleeve. bone strength was also an important factor affecting the quality of fixation.
report of the canadian cardiovascular society's consensus conference on the management of the postmyocardial infarction patient. in october 1989, the canadian cardiovascular society announced a program to achieve consensus on important issues in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease. this report on the management of the postmyocardial infarction patient represents the first in a series of these consensus conferences. the process for establishing consensus recommendations involved several steps. a primary panel of 11 experts from various fields was selected to review the available clinical evidence and to make a list of recommendations about management decisions in the postmyocardial infarction period. the initial report was distributed to a secondary panel of 16 reviewers* representing allied health care constituencies from across canada. on the basis of the critical reviews and feedback from these reviewers, a revised report was distributed to all members (over 800) of the canadian cardiovascular society for further review and feedback. this iterative approach resulted in a penultimate report that was presented at a plenary session of the annual scientific meeting of the canadian cardiovascular society on oct. 18, 1990, in halifax, ns. on the basis of discussion and feedback from this symposium, the consensus review was completed.
tongue ischemia from a soft-drink can: report of case. a young girl was brought to the emergency department because her tongue became entrapped while she was drinking from an aluminum soft-drink can. a dental drill was used to remove the can. the tongue was observed for 48 hours, during which an ischemic area recovered spontaneously.
entrapment of a folded-over introducer sheath in the iliofemoral artery: an unusual complication of ptca guiding catheter exchange an arterial introducer sheath became folded over in the iliac artery during ptca. this probably resulted from withdrawal of a doubled over judkins left coronary guiding catheter through the introducer sheath. nonsurgical, atraumatic removal was accomplished after the acute bend of the introducer sheath had been withdrawn to the site of arterial entrance.
acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children. study objective: to test the hypothesis that quantitation of either c-reactive protein (crp) or the total peripheral wbc count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children. design: cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection, signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure, levels of crp in serum, and total peripheral wbc counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses. setting: emergency department and acute care "walk-in" clinic of an urban, university-affiliated general hospital. participants: 160 previously well, acutely febrile infants and children (median age, 6 months). results: the prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6%. sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17. sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81. of the acute phase reactants, sensitivity of a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl was 0.80, while that of a total peripheral wbc count of more than 15,000/mm3 was 0.40. the presence of signs and/or a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). the absence of signs and a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.47). of 125 children without meningeal signs, the combination of symptoms and a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). the absence of these symptoms and/or a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.66). conclusion: quantitation of crp but not the total peripheral wbc count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis. measurement of crp in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child.
adaptation to ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. clinical, hemodynamic, and metabolic features the clinical, electrocardiographic, and coronary hemodynamic responses to sequential 90-second occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in 12 patients undergoing elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were examined. transmyocardial lactate metabolism was examined in an additional group of seven patients with clinical and hemodynamic features similar to the first group. we noted that in comparison with the initial balloon occlusion the second occlusion was characterized by less subjective anginal discomfort, less st segment shift (0.44 +/- 0.13 versus 0.21 +/- 0.07 mv, p = 0.01), and lower mean pulmonary artery pressure (25 +/- 1.0 versus 20 +/- 1.7 mm hg, p = 0.005). in addition, for the same heart rate-blood pressure product, cardiac vein flow during the second inflation was significantly lower than that recorded during the first inflation (96 +/- 1.4 versus 83 +/- 2.4 ml/min, p = 0.005). finally, there was significantly less myocardial lactate production during the second inflation (lactate extraction ratio: first inflation, -0.11 +/- 0.03; second inflation, -0.03 +/- 0.02; p = 0.04). we conclude that the lessened clinical, electrocardiographic, hemodynamic, and metabolic evidence of myocardial ischemia during the second of two periods of coronary artery occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty supports the concept of adaptation to myocardial ischemia (ischemic preconditioning).
long-term follow-up of patients after transcatheter direct current ablation of the atrioventricular junction. the long-term follow-up study (41 +/- 23 months) of 47 patients undergoing direct current ablation because of drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias is reported. significant early complications occurred in four patients and included hypotension, pericarditis, nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and one sudden death. in 42 patients (86%), complete atrioventricular (av) block was initially achieved. during the follow-up period, av conduction resumed in 2 of these 42 patients. of the seven patients in whom ablation was unsuccessful, two developed late complete av block and three had symptomatic improvement. an improved activity level was reported among 83% of the patients with successful ablation. health care utilization manifest as the number of hospital admissions per year before and after ablation decreased significantly after ablation (2.4 +/- 2.0 versus 0.3 +/- 0.5, p less than 0.001). echocardiographic evaluation in five patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (27 +/- 7%) before ablation showed a significant increase (45 +/- 14%, p less than 0.05) after an average follow-up period of 31 months. new onset of congestive heart failure occurred after ablation in four patients, of whom two had no structural heart disease. the total mortality rate, including the one patient with sudden death, was 17% and was significantly higher among patients with underlying structural heart disease. transcatheter direct current ablation is an effective treatment in patients with drug-resistant supraventricular tachycardia, providing a beneficial long-term outcome including an improved quality of life and a decrease in health care utilization.
effects of thoracic epidural anesthesia on coronary arteries and arterioles in patients with coronary artery disease. the effect of cardiac sympathetic blockade by high thoracic epidural anesthesia (tea) (t1-t6, bupivacaine) on the luminal diameter of normal and diseased portions of epicardial coronary arteries was determined by quantitative coronary angiography in patients (n = 27) with severe coronary artery disease (cad). in a separate group of patients (n = 9) with severe cad, the effects of tea on coronary arterioles (resistance vessels) were studied, by measuring total and regional myocardial blood flow and metabolism with the retrograde coronary sinus thermodilution technique. at the stenotic segments, tea induced an increase in luminal diameter from 1.34 +/- 0.11 to 1.56 +/- 0.13 mm (p less than 0.002), but did not change the diameter of the nonstenotic segments (3.07 +/- 0.13 to 2.99 +/- 0.13 mm). in the second group of patients, tea induced no changes in coronary perfusion pressure, total or regional myocardial blood flow, coronary venous oxygen content, coronary blood flow distribution, regional myocardial oxygen consumption, or lactate extraction or uptake. two patients had chest pain in the control situation and had regional myocardial lactate production that was attenuated by tea. we conclude that tea may increase the diameter of stenotic epicardial coronary artery segments in patients with cad without causing a dilation of coronary arterioles. these effects may be beneficial when high tea is used to treat severe ischemic chest pain in patients at rest.
tumor lysis syndrome in a patient with metastatic merkel cell carcinoma. a first course of combination chemotherapy for large volume metastatic disease in a patient with merkel cell carcinoma resulted in a tumor lysis syndrome. after this course a nearly complete response was documented. this case report extends further the chemosensitivity of merkel cell carcinoma and demonstrates the need for tumor lysis syndrome prophylaxis in patients with bulky disease or fast-growing tumors.
early tracheostomy for primary airway management in the surgical critical care setting. during a 12-month period, 264 patients with multiple injuries who required mechanical ventilation were admitted to the surgical intensive care unit. one hundred twenty patients (46%) were disengaged from the ventilator, and 38 patients (14%) died. of the remaining 106 patients (40%) 51 patients (group i) were to receive tracheostomy within 1 to 7 days, and 55 patients (group ii) underwent late (8 or more days after admission) tracheostomy. multiple variables in four categories (admission, operative, ventilatory, and outcome) were analyzed prospectively to define the impact that early tracheostomy had on duration of mechanical ventilation, intensive care stay, and hospital stay. morbidity and mortality rates of the procedures were assessed. early tracheostomy, in a homogeneous group of critically ill patients, is associated with a significant decrease in duration of mechanical ventilation, as well as shorter intensive care unit and hospital stays, compared with translaryngeal endotracheal intubation. there were no deaths attributable to tracheostomy, and overall morbidity of the procedures was 4%. we conclude that early tracheostomy has an overall risk equivalent to that of endotracheal intubation. furthermore, early tracheostomy shortens days on the ventilator and intensive care unit and hospital days and should be considered for patients in the intensive care unit at risk for more than 7 days of intubation.
myotonic heart disease: a clinical follow-up. we followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years. two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation, 6 developed a new bundle branch block, 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker, and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening qrs interval had a sudden death. most patients had predictable, gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system. we recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening qrs interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ecgs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker.
diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis: long-term observations in patients treated with ancrod. twenty-two patients with histologically demonstrated diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis (dpln) and glomerular thrombosis received a 14-day course of ancrod, followed in most by nitrogen mustard (mechlorethamine hydrochloride) 0.4 mg/kg. many were referred when renal function was deteriorating despite large doses of prednisone. the patients had severe disease; there was a high degree of glomerular sclerosis; the median serum creatinine was 137 mumol/l, the diastolic blood pressure 101 mm hg. reported previously was a short-term improvement in renal function, blood pressure, and renal histology. reported here is the long-term follow-up on all 22 patients for an average of 58 months. three died of causes other than renal failure. eleven developed end-stage renal disease an average of 27 months after ancrod treatment. the other 8 are alive with no deterioration of renal function after an average of 70 months. this outcome seems satisfactory when disease severity is taken into consideration. factors present at treatment start that might be associated with subsequent renal function deterioration were: prior prolonged prednisone treatment, extensive glomerular sclerosis, high plasma alpha 2-antiplasmin and possibly triglycerides. during the follow-up period after completion of treatment, later relapses of sle and dpln appeared to be an important predictor of deterioration of renal function.
expandable biliary metal stents for malignancies: endoscopic insertion and diathermic cleaning for tumor ingrowth. seventeen patients with malignant biliary strictures have been treated by endoscopic insertion of self-expandable metallic prostheses. two patients received two prostheses inserted simultaneously in both the left and right hepatic ducts for klatskin tumor type iii. immediate results were satisfactory despite an operative mortality of 18%, and neither early nor late clogging was observed even in patients who presented previously with sludge above plastic stents that were removed. however, among five patients followed for more than 4 months, two presented with obstruction due to tumor ingrowth into the stent through the metallic mesh. accordingly, initial enthusiasm concerning long-term patency of these stents has decreased. however, we describe a technique of "diathermic cleaning" of tumor ingrowth which can easily restore the stent patency. the advantages of these wire mesh 30 f stents are their easier insertion, better immediate drainage, and absence of dislocation or perforation.
inhibition of neutrophil migration by tumor necrosis factor. ex vivo and in vivo studies in comparison with in vitro effect. coincubation of neutrophils with tnf inhibited the chemoattractant-directed migration of neutrophils under agarose and enhanced their migration in the multiwell chemotaxis chamber. to assess the physiological significance of these differing in vitro tnf effects, ex vivo and in vivo investigations were performed using animal models. neutrophils from the peripheral blood of rabbits preadministered systemic tnf showed impaired ability to migrate toward chemoattractants in vitro. in addition, systemic tnf administration suppressed zymosan-activated plasma-induced local accumulation of leukocytes in mouse skin. the results indicate that circulating tnf may act as a suppressor for local inflammatory reaction.
magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of spinal tumors. magnetic resonance imaging (mri), which has recently begun to replace myelography, postmyelography computed tomography (ct), and to some extent, bone scans, has become the procedure of choice in the evaluation of spinal tumors; the applications of mri in this role are reviewed. in the extradural space, mri is the most sensitive technique for the detection of tumors in the vertebral bodies. at the same time, it provides superb delineation of suspected thecal sac impingement. in the intradural extramedullary space, mri is generally as accurate as myelography and postmyelography ct while being noninvasive. finally, in the intramedullary space, mri is unquestionably the procedure of choice in the evaluation of suspected cord tumors. in general, mri has become the best initial procedure in the evaluation of suspected tumors of the spine, regardless of the space in which they may lie; frequently, it is the only required examination.
ischemic colitis in a crack abuser. we report a case of acute colitis temporally associated with smoking crack. colonoscopy revealed a patchy left-sided hemorrhagic inflammation from the rectosigmoid colon to the splenic flexure. biopsy specimens were consistent with resolving ischemic colitis. this entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute bloody diarrhea in recreational drug users.
core temperature measurement in hypovolemic resuscitation. study objectives: accurate core temperature measurement in severely hypovolemic patients can be difficult to achieve. we used a dog model to determine both a convenient method of measuring core temperature and the relative accuracy of the multiple sites. design: prospective laboratory (animal model) study. setting: operating suites in the animal care department. participants: eight adult, anesthetized greyhound dogs. interventions: continuous temperature monitoring by thermistors placed in the brain, central vein, tympanic membrane, bladder, rectum, esophagus, and subcutaneous tissue. hemorrhage to 65% initial intravascular volume and autologous transfusion of cooled blood, during which serial temperature measurements were recorded. measurements and main results: the readings were analyzed with pearson's correlation coefficient. brain temperature correlated very well with tympanic membrane temperature throughout the course (r = .869, p less than .0005). rectum, bladder, and esophagus also correlated well with brain. central venous temperature, however, correlated poorly with temperatures at all other sites, reflecting the marked swings in intravascular temperature caused by cold transfusion. these wide variations were damped at the other sites. the best correlation of central venous temperature was with brain and bladder, although tympanic membrane correlation was fair. conclusions: because intravascular hypothermia appears to be the source of the arrhythmias and hemostatic abnormalities often seen during the early resuscitation of hypovolemic patients, our results suggest bladder or tympanic membrane as the initial temperature site. after the initial resuscitation, end organ (eg, brain) temperature is the most important and is most accurately reflected by tympanic membrane temperature.
polyamine levels in healthy and tumor tissues of patients with colon adenocarcinoma. tissue polyamine levels were determined in patients with colon adenocarcinoma to try to identify biochemical indicators able to characterize the growth and the metabolism of human solid tumors. polyamine content was determined in the tumor and in the "healthy" mucosa sampled at different distances within the resection edges. for each patient the polyamine content in the tumor was compared with that in the mucosa. the results demonstrated that the spermidine concentration was higher in the tumor than in the healthy mucosa; the differences were statistically significant. however, spermine in the tumor increased to a lesser degree. no statistically significant differences were observed among these mucosae at different localizations, but the spermine concentration in the mucosa after the tumor showed values very close to those of the neoplasia.
spinal cord compression with paraplegia in xanthomatosis due to normocholesterolemic sitosterolemia. a 48-year-old woman with a 30-year history of tendinous xanthomatosis developed paraplegia. the magnetic resonance image revealed extramedullary tumors. the analysis of her sera and tumors revealed increased amount of plant sterols, especially sitosterol, and the diagnosis of sitosterolemia was made. this is the first reported case of a patient with sitosterolemia who had the neurological complication of spinal cord compression due to extramedullary sitosterolemic xanthomas.
systemic hypertension in sleep apnea syndrome. relationship with sleep architecture and breathing abnormalities. to examine the possible relationship between systemic ht and sas we compared 21 hypertensive (ht+) and 29 normotensive (ht-) patients for morphologic characteristics, sleep disturbances and respiratory events monitored during a full night polysomnography. there was no significant difference between ht+ and ht- patients with respect to age, weight, bmi, sleep stage distribution and disorganization, apnea-hypopnea index (number of episodes per hour of sleep) and duration (minutes per hour of sleep) nor o2 saturation indices: mean nocturnal and minimum o2 saturation. we conclude therefore that ht in sas patients is not directly related to morphologic characteristics, sleep disturbances and breathing abnormalities.
cutaneous surgery and the pregnant patient. cutaneous surgery in 34 pregnant women is described. the main indication for surgery was the diagnosis and/or treatment of malignancy. surgery during the period of organogenesis (15 to 56 days) should be avoided when possible. patients should be positioned on the left side during the procedure to avoid the supine hypotensive syndrome. monitoring of the fetal heartbeat is desirable. local anesthetics, penicillin, and erythromycin are safe if used carefully. acetaminophen is the analgesic of choice. exposure to the sun should be avoided during the perioperative period.
hepatocellular carcinoma: comparison of clinical features among ethnic groups in an area of low prevalence. we retrospectively surveyed the clinical features of 73 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma at two hospitals over a 12-yr period. the population was heterogeneous, with 39% representing immigrants from regions of high hepatitis b and hepatocellular carcinoma prevalence. the yearly incidence of cases was constant over the 12 yr. patient data were analyzed by grouping into three broad categories based on origin from known high, medium, or low prevalence hepatocellular carcinoma zones. in this fashion, differences in clinical presentation were observed. asians (n = 12) were younger, invariably presented with pain; 82% had markers of hepatitis b and did not have features of chronic liver disease. in contrast, westerners (n = 45) were older by more than a decade. one-quarter were hbv positive and almost two-thirds were alcoholic. the clinical presentation of this group was more varied, over one-third presenting with features of decompensated liver disease or variceal bleeds. mediterranean patients (n = 16) had features intermediary between the two other groups. a logistic regression model clinically separated patients with hepatitis b-related hepatocellular carcinoma from those with alcohol-related hepatocellular carcinoma, suggesting different ongoing pathogenetic influences.
catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation. incidence and clinical significance. the incidence and severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation has not been studied extensively. given the frequency with which right heart catheters are employed to measure cardiac output, it is important to know whether the severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation is sufficient to invalidate the measurement of thermodilution cardiac output. accordingly, the purpose of the present prospective study was to determine the incidence and severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation in 25 men (mean age, 58.1 +/- 1.4 years) using doppler ultrasound. the tricuspid valve was interrogated from two orthogonal views using pulsed-wave and color flow doppler, either in the presence or absence of a 7-french catheter across the tricuspid valve. the severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was graded semiquantitatively using a validated scoring system. pulsed-wave doppler studies showed that the incidence of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was 48 percent, and that the average tricuspid regurgitation score increased from 0.41 +/- 0.16 to 0.61 +/- 0.17 (p less than 0.01). color flow doppler studies showed similar findings. further, the incidence of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was not related to the patient's underlying hemodynamic status or right ventricular geometry. in conclusion, this study shows for the first time that the quantitative extent of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation is small, and is therefore unlikely to be important clinically, particularly with regard to the assessment of thermodilution cardiac output.
effect of chronic respiratory acidosis on urinary calcium excretion in the dog. it is currently believed that the two chronic acidemic disorders exert disparate effects on urinary calcium excretion: chronic metabolic acidosis induces consistent hypercalciuria, but no appreciable change or even a decrease in calcium excretion is reported to attend chronic respiratory acidosis. whereas the effect of metabolic acidosis is well documented, little work has been carried out in chronic hypercapnia. in fact, most of the studies on chronic respiratory acidosis were short in duration, had employed only mild hypercapnia, or had failed to control carefully the prevailing metabolic conditions. we have carried out balance observations in nine dogs exposed to a 10% co2 atmosphere in an environmental chamber for a period of two weeks. chronic respiratory acidosis led to a significant increase in urinary calcium excretion from a mean control value of 0.4 +/- 0.1 mmol/day to 0.6 +/- 0.1 mmol/day during both week 1 and 2 of hypercapnia (p less than 0.05). hypercalciuria occurred even though filtered load of calcium fell. mean fractional excretion of calcium increased significantly during each week of hypercapnia averaging 0.60 +/- 0.12% during control, 1.05 +/- 0.13% during week 1, and 1.26 +/- 0.17% during week 2 of hypercapnic exposure (p less than 0.05). there were no changes in plasma levels of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3. these findings suggest that chronic respiratory acidosis, just like chronic metabolic acidosis, augments urinary calcium excretion by a direct depressive effect on the tubular reabsorption of calcium.
modification of pain on injection of propofol--a comparison between lignocaine and procaine. pain on injection of propofol was assessed in a controlled, randomised study of 273 patients. they received either lignocaine 10 mg, procaine 10 mg or isotonic saline 0.5 ml, 15 seconds before the injection of propofol into a vein on the back of the hand. the incidence of pain on injection in the control group (51%) was comparable with other studies. lignocaine and procaine both significantly reduced the pain (35% and 34% respectively, p less than 0.05) but there was no statistical difference between these two groups.
cerebral effects of sevoflurane in the dog: comparison with isoflurane and enflurane. the cerebral effects of sevoflurane were compared in dogs with those of enflurane and isoflurane. initially, the minimum alveolar concentrations (mac) of sevoflurane and enflurane were determined and the electroencephalographic (eeg) responses to increasing doses of sevoflurane (1.5, 2.0 and 2.5 mac) or enflurane (1.5 and 2.0 mac) in unparalysed animals were examined. administration of sevoflurane was not associated with seizure activity at any concentration either during normocapnia (paco2 5.3 kpa) or hypocapnia (paco2 2.7 kpa), even in the presence of intense auditory stimuli. all dogs anaesthetized with enflurane demonstrated sustained eeg and motor evidence of seizure activity induced by auditory stimuli at concentrations of enflurane greater than 1 mac, particularly during hypocapnia. in a separate group of dogs, the effects of increasing concentrations of sevoflurane and isoflurane (0.5, 1.5 and 2.15 mac) were compared directly on arterial pressure, cardiac output and heart rate, cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (cmro2) using the venous outflow technique. sevoflurane, in common with isoflurane, had minimal effects on cerebral blood flow at the concentrations studied, but significantly reduced the cmro2 at end-tidal concentrations sufficient to produce a burst suppression pattern on the eeg (approximately 2.15 mac). both sevoflurane and isoflurane significantly decreased arterial pressure in a dose-dependent manner, but neither drug significantly altered cardiac output.
central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox--cause or coincidence? a 7.5 year old boy, known to have a seizure disorder, presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory, 10 weeks after severe chickenpox. immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32. cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis. he presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures. magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct, but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process. cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32. although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence, a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis, similar to that reported with herpes zoster, and with potentially significant clinical implications, should be considered. as a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy, however, which is generally not indicated in such cases, only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity.
prospective study of a prosthetic h-graft portacaval shunt. this study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm gore-tex interposition h-graft portacaval shunt. thirty-six high-risk patients at the university of south florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period. portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting. these pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites; in addition, the incidence of encephalopathy was low. the 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67% of the patients, but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion. graft thrombosis occurred in four (11%) patients. all grafts were successfully revised, three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist. operative mortality was low (11%), and morbidity was unusual. the small-diameter h-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices.
initial airway function is a risk factor for recurrent wheezing respiratory illnesses during the first three years of life. group health medical associates. we recently reported a significant relationship between lung function measured prior to any lower respiratory tract illness and subsequent wheezing illnesses during the first year of life (n engl j med 1988; 319:1112-7). follow-up has continued for this group of infants during the second and third years of life. when compared with never wheezers, infants who wheezed during the first year of life and had at least one additional lower respiratory illness had 22% lower initial levels of an indirect index of airway conductance derived from the shape of tidal breathing curves (p less than or equal to 0.01), 22% lower respiratory conductance (p less than or equal to 0.05), 25% lower maximal flows at the end-expiratory point (p less than or equal to 0.01), and 10% lower functional residual capacity (p less than or equal to 0.05). infants who wheezed only once during the first 3 yr of life or who started wheezing during the second year of life had normal tidal breathing curves but significantly lower maximal expiratory flows (p less than or equal to 0.05). their functional residual capacity was also lower than that of never wheezers (p less than or equal to 0.05). we conclude that diminished initial airway function may be a predisposing factor for recurrent wheezing respiratory illnesses starting in the first year of life. infants who will have only one wheezing respiratory illness or who will start wheezing after the first year of life seem to have lower levels for some but not for all lung function tests performed in this study.
comparison of coffee intake and coffee-induced symptoms in patients with duodenal ulcer, nonulcer dyspepsia, and normal controls. coffee and decaffeinated coffee stimulate acid secretion. in addition, many patients experience dyspepsia after coffee ingestion. therefore, coffee is often prohibited by physicians in patients with peptic diseases. however, the association between peptic disease and symptoms remains unclear. this study compares coffee intake and the induction of symptoms by coffee in patients with duodenal ulcer disease, nonulcer dyspepsia, and normal controls. we have studied the coffee drinking habits of 58 duodenal ulcer patients, 55 nonulcer dyspepsia patients, and 55 normal controls. the use of coffee on a daily basis was not significantly different between duodenal ulcer patients (64%) and controls (56%), or between nonulcer dyspepsia patients (55%) and controls. there was also no difference between the three groups in the use of decaffeinated coffee, the number of cups per day, the method of preparation, the length of time of coffee use, or any change in coffee intake in the previous year. the intake of tea, caffeinated carbonated beverages, and aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was also similar in the three groups. the duodenal ulcer patients were more likely to be cigarette smokers (45%) than either the controls (16%) or the nonulcer dyspepsia patients (24%). daily alcohol intake was not significantly different in the three groups. the prevalence of coffee induction of dyspeptic symptoms was similar in duodenal ulcer patients (29%) and controls (22%), but was much more common in nonulcer dyspepsia patients (53%) than in controls (22%), p = 0.0036. in conclusion, there was no difference in coffee intake between patients with duodenal ulcer, nonulcer dyspepsia, or normal controls. however, patients with nonulcer dyspepsia, but not duodenal ulcer, were more likely to experience dyspeptic symptoms after coffee ingestion.
chronic hyperglycemia increases the density of glucose transporters in human erythrocyte membranes. we investigated the effect of chronic hyperglycemia on glucose transporters in erythrocytes of subjects with and without diabetes mellitus. we found a 22% increase in d-glucose-displaceable cytochalasin-b binding in erythrocyte membranes of diabetic subjects over those of controls (311 +/- 13 vs. 254 +/- 8 pmol/mg protein; p less than 0.001). this increased binding was due to a higher density of binding sites without a significant change in binding affinity. cytochalasin-b binding to erythrocyte membrane correlated positively with both erythrocyte glycohemoglobin and serum glucose levels, but not with plasma c-peptide levels. the data are compatible with up-regulation of glucose transporters in the erythrocytes of subjects with chronic hyperglycemia. we suspect that this is brought about by increased synthesis and membrane incorporation of the glucose transporter during erythropoiesis.
relative risks of left ventricular aneurysmectomy in patients with akinetic scars versus true dyskinetic aneurysms. from 1971 to 1988, 303 patients underwent left ventricular aneurysm resection. we analyzed preoperative and procedure-related variables to ascertain risk factors for surgery. a distinction was made between akinetic and dyskinetic aneurysms to assess potential relation with postoperative outcome. indications for surgery were arrhythmia in 20 patients, congestive heart failure in 81, angina in 133, congestive heart failure and angina in 42, and other combinations in the remaining 27 patients. the left ventricular aneurysm was dyskinetic in 180 patients and akinetic in 121. risk factors and surgical procedures were similar in both groups. left ventricular ejection fraction was less than or equal to 30% in 98 patients. coronary bypass grafting was performed in 269 patients, with an average of 2.3 grafts per patient. mitral valve replacement, the most common concomitant procedure, was performed in 16 patients. intra-aortic balloon assist was required postoperatively in 47 patients. overall operative mortality was 13% (38 patients) and was due to low cardiac output in 23 patients and arrhythmia in 12 patients. univariate and multivariate analyses related early mortality to new york heart association functional classification of heart failure, the predominant indications of arrhythmia or congestive heart failure, left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 30%, the need for intra-aortic balloon support, and the excision of an akinetic (18%) rather than dyskinetic (8%) left ventricular aneurysm. over a follow-up period averaging nearly 5 years, the actuarial survival at 5 years was 63% in the dyskinetic group and 51% in the akinetic group.
prospective comparison of a conventional and an accelerated protocol for programmed ventricular stimulation in patients with coronary artery disease. background. this study compared the sensitivity, specificity, and efficiency of a "conventional" and "accelerated" programmed stimulation protocol in 293 patients with coronary artery disease who had a history of sustained or nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (vt). methods and results. in the conventional protocol, one and two extrastimuli were introduced during sinus rhythm and during basic drive trains at cycle lengths of 600 and 400 msec at the right ventricular apex and then at the outflow tract or septum. in the accelerated protocol, one, two, and then three extrastimuli were introduced at each of three basic drive train cycle lengths (350, 400, and 600 msec) at the right ventricular apex; the procedure was repeated at a second right ventricular site. six hundred thirty-four electrophysiological tests were performed using one of these two protocols either in the baseline state (293 tests) or during drug testing (341 tests). the yield of sustained, monomorphic vt was 89% with the conventional protocol and 92% with the accelerated protocol during baseline tests in patients who had a history of sustained vt (p = 0.05); 20% and 34%, respectively, during baseline tests in patients with a history of nonsustained vt (p = 0.06); and 70% and 77%, respectively, during drug testing (p = 0.2). to induce sustained, monomorphic vt, 10.1 +/- 5.0 (mean +/- sd) protocol steps and 14.4 +/- 8.7 minutes were required with the conventional protocol, compared with 4.0 +/- 3.7 steps and 5.6 +/- 6.1 minutes with the accelerated protocol (p less than 0.001 for each comparison). among the tests in which sustained, monomorphic vt was induced, sustained polymorphic vt or ventricular fibrillation was induced more often with the conventional protocol (3.6%) than with the accelerated protocol (0.9%, p = 0.05). conclusions. the efficiency of programmed stimulation can be improved by the early use of a basic drive train cycle length of 350 msec and three extrastimuli. compared with a conventional stimulation protocol, the accelerated protocol used in this study reduces the number of protocol steps and duration of time required to induce monomorphic vt by an average of more than 50% and improves the specificity of programmed stimulation without impairing the yield of monomorphic vt.
stroke and its modification in parkinson's disease. previous studies have not agreed on the incidence of ischemic stroke in persons with parkinson's disease. there are epidemiologic and neurochemical facets of parkinson's disease that might confer some benefit or protection against ischemic stroke. we used a case-control method to determine the lifetime history of ischemic stroke in 200 patients with parkinson's disease and 200 controls of a similar age range. analysis was also carried out for myocardial infarction as a marker of generalized atherosclerotic disease and for stroke risk factors. the cumulative incidence of ischemic stroke was significantly less in the patients with parkinson's disease than in the controls, as was the cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction. among risk factors, significantly fewer patients with parkinson's disease used tobacco than controls. the decreased incidence of ischemic stroke in the patients with parkinson's disease appears to be related to their less severe generalized atherosclerosis, possibly due to their lower incidence of tobacco use. in view of the known potential for dopamine to exacerbate experimental ischemic tissue damage, the possibility that the dopamine deficiency in the central nervous system of persons with parkinson's disease confers an additional specific protective benefit against ischemic stroke cannot be excluded and requires further study.
baroreflex sensitivity and electrophysiological correlates in patients after acute myocardial infarction. background. several studies have identified transient disturbances of autonomic function during the acute and recovery phases of myocardial infarction, and it has recently been suggested that survivors of acute myocardial infarction with depressed vagal tone may be at increased risk of sudden or arrhythmic death. methods and results. to investigate this hypothesis, parasympathetic function was assessed by arterial baroreflex sensitivity (brs) testing (using the phenylephrine method) and by heart rate variability (hrv) analysis from 24-hour holter recording in 68 patients at day 7-10 after infarction. the relation between autonomic tone and markers of arrhythmic propensity, including programmed ventricular stimulation (pvs) and late potentials in addition to other clinical variables, was examined. brs for the whole group was 7.0 +/- 4.7 msec/mm hg and was inversely correlated with age (r = 0.53, p less than 0.001) but not with left ventricular ejection fraction (r = 0.035, p = ns). in those patients in whom sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (smvt) was induced, brs was significantly reduced (p = 0.001) as was hrv (p = 0.007) and left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.022). the strongest association between any variable (including hrv, brs, late potentials, left ventricular ejection fraction, exercise testing, q waves, and infarct site) and the induction of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was depressed brs with a relative risk of 36.28 (95% confidence interval, 5-266). conclusions. this study confirms that depressed brs identifies a subgroup at high risk for arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction and that programmed ventricular stimulation may be safely limited to this group without any loss of predictive accuracy.
comparison of blood flow assessment between laser doppler velocimetry and the hydrogen gas clearance method in ischemic intestine in dogs. blood flow of the colon and the ileum was measured before and after intestinal devascularization by laser doppler velocimetry and the hydrogen gas clearance technique in 10 dogs in order to evaluate the clinical usefulness of laser doppler velocimetry. the submucosal blood flow of the colon and the ileum measured by the hydrogen gas clearance method was significantly decreased, as was the subserosal blood flow of both sites measured by laser doppler velocimetry. there was a linear relationship between the flow values using the two methods both in the colon (r = 0.7192, p less than 0.001) and in the ileum (r = 0.7646, p less than 0.001). these data suggested laser doppler velocimetry may be a useful method to assess the degree of intestinal ischemia because of its noninvasiveness and good correlation with submucosal blood flow by the hydrogen gas clearance technique.
small bowel morphology in british indian and afro-caribbean subjects: evidence of tropical enteropathy. distal duodenal biopsy specimens taken from 30 white, 35 indian, and 20 afro-caribbean residents of west birmingham during routine endoscopy for dyspepsia, were assessed by dissecting microscopy and morphometry. finger-shaped villi were significantly less frequent in the indian and afro-caribbean subjects than in the white subjects when assessed by dissecting microscopy (p less than 0.005), and both immigrant groups had decreased mucosal thickness (p less than 0.01), villous height (p less than 0.001), villous:crypt ratios (p less than 0.01) and enterocyte height (p less than 0.05) compared with the white group. in the indian subjects, villous height and villous:crypt ratios correlated significantly with the time since the last visit to the indian subcontinent (p less than 0.005). serum alkaline phosphatase values were significantly higher in the indian subjects compared with the whites (p less than 0.02), and serum globulins were increased in both the afro-caribbean and indian subjects (p less than 0.01). there were no correlations between morphometric indices and body habitus or biochemical or haematological indices and the long term effect of the morphological changes is not clear.
doppler assessment of left ventricular filling pattern in silent ischemia in patients with prinzmetal's angina. spontaneous angina is an ideal condition in which to study left ventricular (lv) dysfunction induced by acute myocardial ischemia. in 6 patients with prinzmetal's angina, lv diastolic function during 16 episodes of spontaneous angina was studied by simultaneous recordings of electrocardiographic (ecg), echocardiographic and hemodynamic parameters. in particular, pulsed doppler echocardiography measured peak velocity of early (e) and late (a) transmitral flow and e/a ratio, as indexes of relative early versus late lv filling. during the ischemic attacks, the time sequence of pulsed doppler echocardiographic and ecg changes showed 3 distinct phases: (1) "waxing phase: transmitral flow changes with minimal ecg modifications (e/a = 0.85 +/- 0.1); (2) "steady" phase: maximal ecg changes (e/a = 0.9 +/- 0.1); and (3) "waning" phase: regression of the ecg changes (e/a = 1.26 +/- 0.15). in each phase, e/a ratio showed a significant difference from the baseline value (e/a = 1.17 +/- 0.2) as a result of changes in e, suggesting that myocardial ischemia affects mainly the early phase of diastole. in the waxing phase, lv diastolic dysfunction preceded systolic abnormalities, as documented by a significant reduction of e/a ratio in the absence of alterations in lv ejection fraction, as well as in systemic arterial and pulmonary wedge pressures. finally, all the recorded parameters were consistent with lv "contractile rebound" occurring in the waning phase and affecting both diastole and systole.
skin and epidural recording of spinal somatosensory evoked potentials following median nerve stimulation: correlation between the absence of spinal n13 and impaired pain sense. a clinical lesion study and intraoperative epidural recordings were made to test the origin and clinical significance of the spinal n13 and p13 of somatosensory evoked potentials (sep) that follow median nerve stimulation. intraoperatively, the respective peak latencies of spinal p13 and n13 coincided with those of the n1 component of the dorsal cord potential and its phase reversed positivity. on both the ventral and dorsal sides of the cervical epidural space, maximal amplitude was at the c5 vertebral level to which nerve input from the c6 dermatome is the main contributor. the modality of sensory impairment in the hand dermatome was examined in selected patients with cervical lesions, who showed such normal conventional sep components as erb n9, far-field p9, p11, p14, n18 and cortical n20, with or without loss of spinal n13. statistically, the loss of spinal n13 was associated with decrease of pain sensation in the c6 dermatome. this was interpreted as being due to damage to the central grey matter of the cord, including the dorsal horn. our results suggest the spinal n13 and p13 originate from the same source in the c6 spinal cord segment and that they are good indicators for the detection of centromedullary cervical cord damage.
immune competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients: i. flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subpopulation. lymphocyte subpopulations of the regional lymph nodes in 20 colorectal cancer patients were measured by flow cytometry to analyze nodal lymphocytes phenotypically. eleven patients with cholelithiasis were used as controls. comparison of lymphocyte subpopulations between colorectal cancer and control groups revealed a significantly increased rate of leu-12+ cells in the cancer patients. furthermore, a significant increase of leu-3a+ leu-8- cells and a significant decrease of leu-3a+ leu-8+ cells were also found in the paracolic nodes of the cancer patients. however, leu-2a+ leu-15- cells were not different between the both groups. meanwhile, in the cancer patients, the rates of leu-4+, leu-3a+, and leu-3a+ leu-8- cells were higher in the paracolic nodes compared with the intermediate nodes. additional investigation of the correlation between clinicopathological features of the tumors and lymphocyte subpopulations, showed that leu-12+ cells were related to the tumor size and leu-2a+ 15- cells related to the histopathological type. the foregoing results indicate that the rates of both b and helper t cells, which may specifically participate in the antibody production, increase in the regional lymph nodes of colorectal cancer patients.
expression of blood group antigens h-2, le(y), and sialylated-le(a) in human colorectal carcinoma. an immunohistochemical study using double-labeling techniques. in this study, double-labeling immunohistochemistry was used to gain insight into the coexpression or interrelationship between blood group antigens (bga) that are differentiation antigens in the normal colon, and bga that are sequential moieties in the same synthetic pathway. paired-wise sialylated-le(a)/le(y) and h-2/le(y) was studied. the sialylated-le(a) and le(y) are synthesized from type 1 and type 2 backbones, respectively. in the normal colon, the le(y) and sialylated-le(a) are expressed by cells at the base and surface of the crypt, respectively, representing undifferentiated and differentiated enterocytes. the h-2 is considered oncofetal in nature, and is considered to be the immediate precursor in the synthesis of le(y). in individual cancers. sialylated-lea and le(y) were detected in different cancer cells within the same malignant glands, separately in different glands, and in different subcellular compartments of the same cell. both h-2 and le(y) were coexpressed in the same individual cells in 92% of cancers expressing both these bga. in 50% of the cancers, the h-2 and le(y) also were expressed separately in different malignant glands within individual tumors. these findings indicate that, in colorectal cancers, differentiation antigens (sialylated le(a) and le(y)) are expressed by different individual cells within the same malignant gland somewhat, recapitulating the normal colon crypt. antigens of different backbones occasionally may be expressed in the same cells but within different subcellular compartments. precursor accumulation is common in cancers, and antigens in the same synthetic pathway are coexpressed in the same cell. the expression of h-2 and le(y) in different glands (lack of coexpression) may be explained possibly by aberrant synthesis of le(y) by an alternate pathway.
syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of the resection of a chordoma of the clivus: case report. syringomyelia has been described frequently in association with various abnormalities of the skull base but rarely with tumors of the skull base. syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of surgery of the skull base has not been reported. the authors describe a case of cervical syringomyelia developing after the partial resection of a chordoma and combined conventional and proton beam irradiation. the possible mechanisms causing this abnormality are discussed.
cervical screening with cervicography and the papanicolaou smear in women with genital condylomata. cervicography has been shown to be a very sensitive screening tool in the general population. its value in screening a high-risk population was explored. one hundred five women seen with vulvar condylomata or a history thereof were offered a cervigram and papanicolaou smear. twelve patients had abnormal smears, whereas 53 had abnormal cervigrams. colposcopically directed biopsies in the abnormal papanicolaou group revealed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) i in six patients and iii in two. cervicography-positive patients exhibited cin i in 9 cases, ii in 1 and iii in 2. there was some overlap. twelve patients had cervical condylomata without dysplasia. cervicography, in addition to cervical cytology, should be considered for all women with vulvar condylomata.
risk factors for white matter changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly. we found increased age (p = 0.001) and history or evidence of stroke (p = 0.016) to be significant independent multivariate predictors of the presence and severity of leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging brain scans in a mixed population of 35 elderly psychiatric patients and 25 neurologically healthy elderly volunteers. these results suggest that subcortical ischemia, as well as age-related changes that may not be vascular in origin, contribute to the emergence of periventricular and other deep white matter hyperintensities that are commonly seen on the magnetic resonance imaging brain scans of older adults.
serum and aqueous humor sialic acid levels in behcet's disease. serum and aqueous humor sialic acid (sa) levels were determined in 27 patients with behcet's disease (bd). serum sa levels were elevated significantly during the active episode (mean, 113.4 +/- 4.12 mg/dl) and in the remission stages (mean, 85.4 +/- 4.79 mg/dl; p less than 0.001). a significant increase was also detected in active episodes when compared to chronic stages (p less than 0.02). aqueous humor levels were also evaluated but could only be determined in the six eyes at the end-stage of the disease (mean, 2.65 +/- 0.60 mg/dl; p less than 0.05).
fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcer. in order to characterize the fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcers, we examined tissue specimens of patients with active duodenal ulcer disease (n = 30) before and after treatment with either antacids (n = 16) or h2-receptor antagonists (n = 14), by light microscopy and various electron microscopic techniques, e.g., scanning and transmission electron microscopy. the characteristic histological feature of both the active and healed duodenal ulcer was the appearance of periodic acid-schiff (pas)-positive epithelial cells at the edge of the ulcers. electron microscopy revealed that these cells were similar to a special type of mucus-secreting cell in the antrum (surface mucous cell). their mucus granules contained mainly neutral glycoproteins. helicobacter pylori were found attached to these cells in tissue specimens from 12 of 30 patients (40%). the mucous structure destroyed during the ulcerative phase regained its normal net-like structure after treatment. the ultrastructural healing process of duodenal ulcer was characterized by the presence of gastric metaplasia, by stunted microvilli of the duodenal epithelium (p less than 0.001 vs. control group), and an increased number of lysosome-like bodies (p less than 0.001 vs. control group) of the epithelial cells. these results were independent of the type of treatment, and showed that the repair mechanisms were incomplete after a 4-wk period of treatment.
influence of postmortem time and temperature on osteoinductive activity of demineralized microperforated ethylene oxide-sterilized syngeneic bone implant in the rat. bone morphogenetic protein is labile and easily inactivated by many extracorporeal factors. it is crucial to establish whether delay in retrieval of donor bone and ambient holding temperature of the donor body influence osteoinductivity of bone left in situ. of ten adult rats that were killed, five were kept at 4 degrees and five at room temperature. femurs were harvested at 24, 36, 48, 72, and 168 hours. after processing, segments were implanted in 20 four-week-old syngeneic rats for 14 days. the level of osteoinduction was evaluated histologically. it was excellent in the 4 degrees group in the 24-, 36-, and 48-hour specimens but less advanced at 72 hours. bone taken from the room temperature group showed findings identical to those kept at 4 degrees through 36 hours, but osteoinduction was less advanced at 48 hours and absent at 72 hours. no bone formed at 168 hours in either temperature group. the following observations were made. (1) osteoinductivity of demineralized bone left in situ after death was unexpectedly stable. (2) retrieval time was extended by donor cooling. (3) microperforated demineralized bone actively induced new bone formation. (4) ethylene oxide does not inhibit osteoinduction when correctly applied for sterilization. if confirmed in humans, retrieval of bone to be used for osteoinduction could be delayed for some hours, particularly if the donor was immediately refrigerated. this would increase the effective number of bone tissue donors and utilize an undeveloped resource.
chondrosarcoma of the head and neck. chondrosarcoma is a malignancy rarely encountered in the head and neck. in an attempt to define this tumor's characteristics and response to therapy, all cases of chondrosarcoma treated at the university of michigan over the past 25 years were retrospectively studied. fourteen cases originating in the nose and paranasal sinuses, mandible, temporal bone, and larynx were reviewed. aggressive surgical resection was the mainstay of treatment, and resulted in an overall survival of 70%, with an average follow-up of 3.5 years. survival was highest in primary temporal bone lesions, and lowest in paranasal sinus lesions. unresectable lesions were not cured by other modalities. this study, therefore, continued to support the crucial role of wide surgical resection in the treatment of head and neck chondrosarcoma, but conservative resection, when needed to preserve important structures, has resulted in long-term survival.
hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis--dutch type. magnetic resonance imaging findings in 7 cases. the clinical history and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) findings are presented of 7 patients with hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis--dutch type (hchwa-d). the diagnosis was based on clinical and genealogical data, was confirmed in 3 patients at autopsy and in 2 others by biopsy. focal neurological signs, and at least some degree of global cognitive deterioration, were observed in all patients, with unequivocal dementia in 4. mri showed haemorrhages and areas of gliosis and, to a variable extent, hyperintensity of the white matter in t2-weighted images. neuropathological examination revealed a large recent haemorrhage together with residual lesions from previous haemorrhages or infarcts in all patients examined. the white matter lesions, present on mri, turned out to be areas of 'incomplete infarction' with demyelination. it is concluded that (hereditary) amyloid angiopathy can lead to strokes, but also to subcortical ischaemic encephalopathy. amyloid angiopathy should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis of white matter lesions, found on ct or mri, especially when patients present with a cerebral haemorrhage. the relationship between hchwa-d and alzheimer's disease, another disease with cerebral amyloid deposition and diffuse white matter involvement, is discussed.
analysis of dna polymorphisms suggests that most de novo dup(21q) chromosomes in patients with down syndrome are isochromosomes and not translocations. down syndrome is rarely due to a de novo duplication of chromosome 21 [dup(21q)]. to investigate the origin of the dup(21q) and the nature of this chromosome, we used dna polymorphisms in 10 families with down syndrome due to de novo dup(21q). the origin of the extra chromosome 21q was maternal in six cases and paternal in four cases. furthermore, the majority (eight of 10) of dup(21q) chromosomes were isochromosomes i(21q) (four were paternal in origin, and four were maternal in origin); however, in two of 10 families the dup(21q) chromosome appeared to be the result of a robertsonian translocation t(21q;21q) (maternal in origin in both cases).
doppler echocardiographic evaluation of streptokinase lysis of thrombosed right-sided st. jude medical valves in patients with congenital heart defects. four episodes of st. jude medical prosthesis leaflet thrombosis were serially evaluated by two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography during treatment with streptokinase. three patients aged 4, 11, and 24 years with congenital heart disease had st. jude medical valves in pulmonary positions (two cases) for tetralogy of fallot and in the tricuspid position (one case). the duration of thrombosis was not known in any patient. leaflet immobility and its resolution were demonstrated by echocardiography and were confirmed fluoroscopically. continuous wave doppler echocardiography showed abnormal stenotic gradients in thrombosed valves that were reduced after thrombolysis. these studies demonstrate the utility of two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography in serial evaluation of prosthetic pulmonary and tricuspid valve thrombosis during thrombolysis.
effectiveness of the once-daily calcium antagonist, lacidipine, in controlling 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure. the efficacy of the new once-daily dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, lacidipine, in reducing ambulatory intraarterial blood pressure (bp) was examined in 12 untreated hypertensive patients. the intraarterial recording was commenced 24 hours before the first 4-mg dose and was continued for a further 24 hours thereafter. after dose titration and chronic therapy, a second 24-hour ambulatory bp recording was made. there was a steady onset of drug action, maximal at 2 hours, but with reflex tachycardia after the first dose. chronic administration reduced bp throughout the 24-hour period, without tachycardia. mean daytime reduction in bp was 20 mm hg systolic (p less than 0.005) and 12 mm hg diastolic (p less than 0.02). mean nighttime reduction was 8-mm hg systolic (p less than 0.05) and 6-mm hg diastolic (difference not significant). there was no postural decrease in bp on 60 degrees head-up tilting and hypotensive action was maintained during isometric exercise (reduction at peak of 32/18 mm hg, p less than 0.05) and throughout dynamic exercise (reduction at peak of 23/14 mm hg, p less than 0.05). lacidipine is an effective once-daily antihypertensive agent, with good control of stress response.
soluble histocompatibility antigen class i in breast cancer patients in relation to tumor burden. serum beta-2 microglobulin (b-2m) levels were studied in 365 breast cancer patients and 210 age-matched controls. the patients were divided into three groups: group a, new patients at diagnosis; group b, patients at follow-up; and group c, metastatic patients. the mean b-2m of all breast cancer patients plus or minus one standard deviation (3.5 +/- 1.2; range, 1.1 to 5.9) was significantly higher than normal controls (1.29 +/- 0.49; range, 0.3 to 2.3; p less than 0.005). when the three patient groups were compared with each other, the mean b-2m level of group a (3.0 +/- 1.5; range, 0.9 to 6.9) was similar to that of group c (4.22 +/- 1.1; range, 2.0 to 6.4). the mean b-2m of both groups a and c was significantly higher than that of group b (2.38 +/- 1.02, range, 0.4 to 5.4; p less than 0.001). in group a the mean b-2m decreased significantly after a 12-month period and reached the mean level of group b but not that of normal controls. when patients in group b were analyzed by their stage of disease at diagnosis, there was no significant difference between stages i and ii. there was a significant difference in the mean b-2m levels between stages i and iii. in relapsing patients, mean b-2m levels increased. these findings suggest that serum b-2m levels may reflect tumor burden, and even in patients at follow-up, occult tumor cells may activate the immune system.
bleeding from duodenal lymphangiectasia. an 8 year old girl with recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding was found to have localised duodenal lymphangiectasia by fibreoptic endoscopy. she did not show physical signs or laboratory evidence of significant enteric protein loss. a low fat diet seemed to prevent further bleeding. duodenal lymphangiectasia may be associated with gastrointestinal bleeding in children.
long-term remission of chronic hepatitis b after alpha-interferon therapy. objective: to evaluate whether remissions of chronic hepatitis b induced by alpha-interferon therapy are of long duration. design: cohort study. setting: clinical center of the national institutes of health, a tertiary referral center. patients: sixty-four patients with chronic hepatitis b were treated with alpha-interferon between 1984 and 1986. main outcome measures: patients were followed with frequent examinations and determinations of serum liver biochemical tests and hepatitis b virus (hbv) markers including hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag), hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag), and hbv dna using blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. results: among 64 patients with chronic hepatitis b who were treated with alpha-interferon, 23 (36%) responded to treatment with loss of hbeag and improvement in serum aminotransferases. all 23 have been followed for 3 to 7 years (mean, 4.3 years). during follow-up, 3 of 23 patients relapsed, with reappearance of hbeag and abnormal serum aminotransferases, all within 1 year of therapy. the remaining 20 patients continued to have no detectable hbeag or hbv dna (using blot hybridization) in serum and to be asymptomatic for liver disease, although 3 had minimal elevations in serum aminotransferases. thirteen patients (65%) became negative for hbsag between 0.2 and 6 years (mean, 3 years) after loss of hbeag. although no patient had hbv dna that was detectable by blot hybridization, the 7 patients who remained hbsag positive all had hbv dna in serum detected by polymerase chain reaction, but only 2 of 13 hbsag-negative patients had viral genome using this method. testing sequential samples indicated that hbv dna detected by polymerase chain reaction usually disappeared at or around the time that test results for hbsag became negative. conclusions: remissions in chronic hepatitis b induced by alpha-interferon are of long duration and are followed, in most patients, by the loss of hbsag and all evidence of residual virus replication.
activation of epstein-barr virus latent genes protects human b cells from death by apoptosis. epstein-barr virus (ebv), a human herpesvirus, establishes a persistent asymptomatic infection of the circulating b-lymphocyte pool. the mechanism of virus persistence is not understood but, given the limited lifespan of most b cells in vivo, it seems most likely that ebv-infected cells must gain access to the long-lived memory b-cell pool. here we show in an in vitro system that ebv, through expression of the full set of eight virus-coded 'latent' proteins, can protect human b cells from programmed cell death (apoptosis), the deletion mechanism which normally restricts entry into memory. we have found that ebv-positive burkitt's lymphoma (bl) cell clones retaining the original tumour cell phenotype and expressing only one of the virus latent proteins, the nuclear antigen ebna 1, are extremely sensitive to apoptosis; in this respect they resemble the tumour's normal cell of origin found in the germinal centres of lymphoid tissue. by contrast, isogenic bl cell clones which have activated expression of all eight ebv latent proteins are resistant to the induction of apoptosis. the ebv latent proteins should therefore be seen not just as activators of b-cell proliferation but, perhaps more importantly, as mediators of enhanced b-cell survival.
the role of pain in the last year of life of older persons. a random sample of 200 decreased older community residents was studied with a focus on the role of pain in the last year of life. interviews with a surviving close person elicited retrospective reports. pain increased over the final year; one month before death 66% felt pain frequently or all of the time, substantially higher than a matched comparison group of living persons (24%). for both groups across the year, pain was associated with most measures of behavioral competence, perceived quality of life, and psychological well-being. hierarchical multiple regressions indicated that background and health variables explained 28% to 32% of the variance of pain over the year. controlling for background variables and health, pain contributed significantly to lowered happiness and to depression, but had no independent impact on hope and interest in the world. after controlling for physical health, the older old were judged to have less pain than the younger old.
characterization of periventricular edema in normal-pressure hydrocephalus by measurement of water proton relaxation times. the magnetic resonance longitudinal relaxation time (t1) and transverse relaxation time (t2) of the water proton of the periventricular white and cortical gray matter were measured for 17 control patients and 21 patients with suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus (nph). of the latter group, 14 showed good response to shunting (true-nph group) and seven showed no response (false-nph group). in the true-nph group, both the t1 and the t2 of the periventricular white matter were significantly prolonged compared to the control values, and slowly shortened after cerebrospinal fluid (csf) shunting. the true-nph group showed significantly longer t1 and t2 of the white matter than did the false-nph group. the t1 and t2 of the white matter were longer than those of the gray matter in this group, which was the reverse of the relationship observed in the control patients. in the white matter of the false-nph group, there was a significant prolongation of t1 only; no difference was seen in the t2 compared to control values. there was no change in either t1 or t2 of this region after csf shunting. the false-nph group showed no significant difference in either t1 or t2 between the white and the gray matter. there was no difference in either t1 or t2 of the gray matter between the false-nph and control groups or between preshunt and postshunt measurements in each patient group. it is suggested that a distinction between true- and false-nph, which cannot be made from the radiographic appearance alone, may be possible from measurement of relaxation times. the mechanism of varied relaxation behavior between two entities may be explained by a difference in properties of the biological water and its environment.
gallbladder varices: imaging findings in patients with portal hypertension. a retrospective review of the medical and imaging records of 50 patients with portal hypertension examined in the authors' department during a 2-year period identified six patients with gallbladder wall varices. imaging studies performed in these patients included computed tomography (ct) (four patients), duplex and color doppler flow (five patients), and magnetic resonance (mr) (four patients). five of six patients with gallbladder varices had portal vein thrombosis. anechoic areas within the gallbladder wall detected with ultrasonography could be distinguished from intramural edema by using duplex or color doppler flow imaging in all five patients in whom it was used. contrast material enhancement of these varices was detected with ct in three patients, two of whom also had adjacent mesenteric collaterals. gradient-echo mr imaging (fast imaging in steady precession/fast low-angle shot) showed flow-related enhancement within the gallbladder wall in two patients. the presence of gallbladder wall varices may imply the presence of portal vein thrombosis. since these varices can be a source of major blood loss, surgeons must be made aware of them when operating on patients with portal hypertension.
tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin. case report. the authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction. two similar cases were found upon review of the literature. the embryology of this lesion is discussed.
the effect of ursodiol on the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy of gallstones. the dornier national biliary lithotripsy study background. in the treatment of gallstones with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, the bile acid ursodiol is administered to dissolve the gallstone fragments. we designed our study to determine the value of administering this agent. methods. at 10 centers, 600 symptomatic patients with three or fewer radiolucent gallstones 5 to 30 mm in diameter, as visualized by oral cholecystography, were randomly assigned to receive ursodiol or placebo for six months, starting one week before lithotripsy. results. the stones were fragmented in 97 percent of all patients, and the fragments were less than or equal to 5 mm in diameter in 46.8 percent. on the basis of an intention-to-treat analysis of all 600 patients, 21 percent receiving ursodiol and 9 percent receiving placebo (p less than 0.0001) had gallbladders that were free of stones after six months. among those with completely radiolucent solitary stones less than 20 mm in diameter, 35 percent of the patients receiving ursodiol and 18 percent of those receiving placebo (p less than 0.001) were free of stones after six months. biliary pain, usually mild, occurred in 73 percent of all patients but in only 13 percent of those who were free of stones after three and six months (p less than 0.01). there were few adverse events. only diarrhea occurred with a significantly different frequency in the two groups: 32.6 percent were affected in the ursodiol group, as compared with 24.7 percent in the placebo group (p less than 0.04). severe biliary pain occurred in 1.5 percent of all patients, acute cholecystitis in 1.0 percent, and acute pancreatitis in 1.5 percent; endoscopic sphincterotomy was performed in 0.5 percent, and cholecystectomy in 2.5 percent. conclusions. extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy with ursodiol was more effective than lithotripsy alone for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones, and equally safe. treatment was more effective for solitary than multiple stones, radiolucent than slightly calcified stones, and smaller than larger stones.
chronic blood hyperviscosity in subjects with acute stroke, transient ischemic attack, and risk factors for stroke. the origin and significance of blood hyperviscosity in subjects with acute stroke has been controversial. it has been argued that viscous abnormalities simply reflect either elevated hematocrit or an acute-phase response to the stroke itself. to address these issues, we measured the factors that determine blood viscosity in a cross-sectional study of 430 subjects, including 135 with acute stroke, 89 with acute transient ischemic attacks of the brain, 115 with recognized risk factors for stroke, and 91 healthy controls. the at-risk group was balanced with the acute stroke group for types of risk factors and medication usage, and all four groups were balanced for age. the viscosity of whole blood at low rates of shear and the plasma viscosity were significantly elevated in both groups with cerebrovascular symptoms and in the at-risk group compared with the healthy controls. the severity of hyperviscosity was stroke group greater than transient ischemic attack group greater than at-risk group greater than healthy controls. increased viscosity of whole blood was associated with an elevated plasma fibrinogen concentration and with a decreased albumin/globulin ratio. this study provides evidence that blood hyperviscosity is present not only in subjects with acute brain infarction, but also in those with risk factors for stroke, and that these abnormalities are, to a considerable degree, chronic.
angiographic follow-up after placement of a self-expanding coronary-artery stent background. the placement of stents in coronary arteries after coronary angioplasty has been investigated as a way of treating abrupt coronary-artery occlusion related to the angioplasty and of reducing the late intimal hyperplasia responsible for gradual restenosis of the dilated lesion. methods. from march 1986 to january 1988, we implanted 117 self-expanding, stainless-steel endovascular stents (wallstent) in the native coronary arteries (94 stents) or saphenous-vein bypass grafts (23 stents) of 105 patients. angiograms were obtained immediately before and after placement of the stent and at follow-up at least one month later (unless symptoms required angiography sooner). the mortality after one year was 7.6 percent (8 patients). follow-up angiograms (after a mean [+/- sd] of 5.7 +/- 4.4 months) were obtained in 95 patients with 105 stents and were analyzed quantitatively by a computer-assisted system of cardiovascular angiographic analysis. the 10 patients without follow-up angiograms included 4 who died. results. complete occlusion occurred in 27 stents in 25 patients (24 percent); 21 occlusions were documented within the first 14 days after implantation. overall, immediately after placement of the stent there was a significant increase in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant decrease in the percentage of the diameter with stenosis (changing from a mean [+/- sd] of 1.88 +/- 0.43 to 2.48 +/- 0.51 mm and from 37 +/- 12 to 21 +/- 10 percent, respectively; p less than 0.0001). later, however, there was a significant decrease in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant increase in the stenosis of the segment with the stent (1.68 +/- 1.78 mm and 48 +/- 34 percent at follow-up). significant restenosis, as indicated by a reduction of 0.72 mm in the minimal luminal diameter or by an increase in the percentage of stenosis to greater than or equal to 50 percent, occurred in 32 percent and 14 percent of patent stents, respectively. conclusions. early occlusion remains an important limitation of this coronary-artery stent. even when the early effects are beneficial, there are frequently late occlusions or restenosis. the place of this form of treatment for coronary artery disease remains to be determined.
stroke rehabilitation: a geropsychological perspective. rehabilitation medicine and geriatric medicine are similar in their concern for functional improvement in the face of chronic medical conditions. although many patients served by rehabilitation medicine fall within the geriatric age range, a knowledge of normal aging does not necessarily inform clinical decision making or research practices in rehabilitation. using stroke as an example of a disorder affecting primarily geriatric patients and requiring the technology of rehabilitation, ways in which age might affect assessment of outcome are examined. three areas dealing with conceptual and methodologic issues--depression, neurochemical interventions, and family--are highlighted. the final section outlines recommendations for research on rehabilitation outcome of geriatric stroke patients.
combined myocardial revascularization and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. myocardial infarction remains the leading cause of early and late deaths after abdominal aortic reconstruction in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm. our approach for the past 4 years has been combined myocardial revascularization with abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients with good left ventricle performance. from july 1984 through june 1989, 128 patients underwent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. seventeen patients underwent combined abdominal aortic reconstruction with coronary artery bypass grafting. one patient died (5.9%). the remaining patients are all well at current follow-up. our experience shows that patients with coronary artery disease and abdominal aortic aneurysm may have both lesions safely repaired as a single operative procedure.
colonic volvulus as a complication of celiac sprue. colonic volvulus has been a rarely reported complication of celiac sprue. we describe two patients with long-standing celiac sprue, one in whom a recurrent sigmoid volvulus developed, and in the other, a cecal volvulus. following surgery, both are now asymptomatic on a gluten-free diet. the association between celiac sprue and colonic volvulus was first reported in 1953. there have been only a few isolated cases documented, surprisingly so because the two major predisposing conditions for colonic volvulus are often seen in patients with celiac sprue. colonic bacterial fermentation of malabsorbed carbohydrate (in celiac sprue) leads to excess gas production. flaccid bowel loops with sigmoid redundancy, a long mesentery, or cecal hypermobility are not uncommon. a motility disorder in celiac sprue has also been proposed. thus these factors together would suggest that the likelihood of development of colonic volvulus in celiac sprue would be relatively great. the possibility of underlying celiac sprue should be considered in patients with colonic volvulus who have a background history of recurrent abdominal distention or malabsorptive symptoms.
chinese-white differences in the distribution of occlusive cerebrovascular disease. the distribution of cerebrovascular lesions is affected by race. blacks and japanese have more intracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease, while whites have more extracranial disease. despite a high incidence of stroke in china, there are few formal studies of the distribution of vascular occlusive disease in chinese populations. we compared clinical and angiographic features of 24 white and 24 chinese patients with symptomatic occlusive cerebrovascular disease. in symptomatic vascular territories, whites had more severe (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) extracranial lesions, while chinese had more severe intracranial lesions. when we counted mild and severe lesions in a symptomatic territory, whites had more extracranial lesions while chinese had more intracranial lesions. when we combined symptomatic and asymptomatic territories, whites had more extracranial lesions, while chinese had more intracranial lesions. white patients reported more transient ischemic attacks. the distribution of lesions, however, was not explained by differences in incidence of transient ischemia, hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, or ischemic heart disease between the groups. the preponderance of intracranial vascular lesions in chinese patients is similar to that seen in blacks and japanese. racial differences in the occurrence of extracranial and intracranial lesions raise the possibility of a different underlying pathophysiology for the 2 locations.
maximum blood flow rates for arterial cannulae used in neonatal ecmo. the arterial cannulae used in neonatal ecmo cause hemolysis and red blood cell damage at elevated blood flows. hemolysis in extracorporeal circuits has been found to occur with shear stress greater than 132 dynes/cm2, turbulence as measured by reynold's number greater than 1,000, and velocity greater than 120 to 200 cm/sec. these parameters need to be considered when sizing the proper arterial cannula for a required flow rate. in-vitro measurements of the pressure drop across six arterial cannulae at varying flow rates were performed using human blood with a hematocrit of 43%. shear stress, reynold's number, velocity, and pressure drop were calculated for each catheter at flow rates from 50 to 1,000 cc/min. the maximum mean flow rate to maintain the shear stress, reynold's number, velocity, and pressure drop within the accepted range, was determined for each cannula. recommended maximum blood flow rates for each of the six cannulae are given. internal diameter, length, and cannula geometry appear to be the factors most affecting the flow achievable without causing red blood cell damage and hemolysis. ten french biomedicus, 10 french cook, and 10 french elecath arterial cannulae appear best suited to deliver the range of blood flow rates used in neonatal ecmo.
b-mode imaging and histomorphometric evaluation of carotid atherosclerosis. the quantitative and qualitative evaluation of atherosclerotic lesions by the ultrasonography has presented several problems, above all, the determination of accuracy and reproducibility of this methodology in humans. the present study aims to evaluated the results of b-mode imaging of extracranial carotid arteries in patients selected for surgery as compared with histologic results of the observations of the samples obtained by endarterectomy. shrinkage effects of the histologic samples were taken into consideration. several bidimensional images of atherosclerotic lesions, as obtained by ultrasound at different incident angles, were used to establish their maximum thickness. the maximum degree of the vessel stenosis calculated by ultrasound showed a high correlation (y = 0.47x + 42.4, se = 0.11, r = 0.5, p less than 0.001) compared with the one obtained by histology. the imaging methodology provided however, a mean overestimation of the stenosis of about 7%. relationships among the amount of calcium (p less than 0.03); necrotic core p less than 0.056); and echogenic types, ie, soft, mixed, and hard; have been suggested by a statistical trend. the results suggested that of the vascular lumen due to advanced atherosclerotic lesions. qualitative interpretation of atherosclerosis by b-mode imaging, ie, morphologic characteristics, seem, at present, to be of value, but more investigations in depth are needed.
18f-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-d-glucose uptake into human tumor xenografts. feasibility studies for cancer imaging with positron-emission tomography. the positron-emitting glucose analogue 18f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (fdg) was evaluated for its accretion into the following subcutaneous human tumor xenografts in nude mice: b-cell lymphoma (namalwa or raji), ovarian carcinoma (htb77), colon cancer (sw948), choriocarcinoma (bewo), bladder cancer (um-uc-2), renal cell carcinoma (um-rc-3), neuroblastoma (mey), melanoma (htb63), and small cell lung carcinoma (nci69). two hours postinjection, tumor uptakes ranged from 0.027 (colon cancer) to 0.125% kg injected dose/g (melanoma); and was greater than 0.085 in the namalwa lymphomas and the renal cell carcinomas. tumor-blood ratios of up to 23:1 were seen 2 hours postinjection (melanoma) with a mean tumor-blood ratio for all tumors of 12.3 +/- 1.8. uptake in the other tumors was intermediate. when evaluated, tumor uptake was slightly greater at 1 than at 2 hours postinjection, although target-background ratios were generally higher at 2 hours postinjection. this compound, fdg, may have broad applicability as a tracer for positron-emission tomographic imaging of many human malignancies.
reproducibility of 24 hour oesophageal ph studies in infants. thirteen infants who had undergone 24 hour oesophageal ph monitoring to diagnose gastro-oesophageal reflux had a second study carried out to see if the results were reproducible. the studies were done without restricting the babies' activities. appreciable differences were found, the percentage of the total time during which the ph was less than 4 varying by up to 3.7-fold between the two tests. the differences were largely the result of biological rather than technical variability. from these results estimates were made of the reliability of a single diagnostic study and the size of changes that would be necessary to show the effect of treatment. these findings have a considerable impact on the diagnosis of abnormal gastro-oesophageal reflux and its response to treatment whether using 24 hour ph monitoring or any other method of measurement.
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain. endosalpingosis, a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium, is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location. endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms. our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain. various aspects of this disease will also be discussed.
correlation between bromodeoxyuridine-labeling indices and patient prognosis in cerebral astrocytic tumors of adults. bromodeoxyuridine (budr), a nonradioactive thymidine analogue, is taken up by cells in s-phase, and the ratio of budr-positive nuclei to the total number of cells counted is defined as the labeling index (li). in this study, budr li and the clinical course of 50 cerebral astrocytic tumors in adults were analyzed. the obtained li distributed continuously in a broad range from 0% to 19%. the mean li of 28 glioblastomas, 12 anaplastic astrocytomas, and ten astrocytomas were 8.5%, 4.2%, and 1.2%, respectively, and these differences were statistically significant (p = 0.05). in the analysis of li and the recurrence-free period (rfp), regardless of the histologic findings, 23 patients with li more than 5% had a median rfp of 9.0 months; the median rfp of nine patients with li of 3% to 5% was 14.7 months. nine of 13 patients with li less than 3% have not yet recurred after a median follow-up of 36 months. these differences were also statistically significant by the generalized wilcoxon test (p = 0.05). the proliferative potential reflected by the budr li is a good clinical indicator for predicting the rate of tumor growth in cerebral astrocytic tumors. in combination with histologic diagnosis, budr li could help in determining a patient's prognosis more precisely.
immunophenotypes in "classical" b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. correlation with normal cellular counterpart and clinical findings. this study evaluates the expression of a series of membrane antigens, normally expressed by b-lymphocytes of the lymphocytic mantle and marginal zone, in 90 selected cases of "classical" (mouse red blood cell-receptor+, cd20+, cd5+, surface immunoglobulin +/-) b-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (b-cll) with the aim of contributing toward identifying the normal counterpart of b-cll and any correlations between surface antigen pattern and certain clinical characteristics. clustered (cd23, 25, 39, 40, 27, 1c, w75) and unclustered (nub1, 7f7, kib3) monoclonal antibodies (moab) were tested. almost all cases showed high reactivity to cd23, 27, w75, 39, 40, and nub1: expression of cd1c was very low and that of 7f7, kib3, and cd25 was variable. the reactivity of 7f7 and kib3 was strictly correlated, and they correlated individually with cd25. results show that the most frequent b-cll phenotype (cd19+, 5+, 23+, 27+, 39+, nub1+, kib3 +/-, 7f7 +/-, and cd25 +/-) corresponds to one or more cellular subsets in the mantle zone. no correlation was found between moab expression, surface immunoglobulin (sig) class or type, clinical stage, disease activity, or age at diagnosis. the only difference (statistically borderline) was the expression of 7f7 and kib3 (in young versus old patients). this suggests that modulations in the expression of surface antigens do not affect the clinical behavior of the disease.
clinical experience with the palmaz-schatz coronary stent. initial results of a multicenter study. stenting of native coronary arteries with a balloon-expandable stent was attempted in 226 patients after elective angioplasty. delivery of the device was successful in 213 (94%) of the patients. of these, 39 received aspirin and dipyridamole only (group 1) and 174 received aspirin, dipyridamole, and warfarin for 1-3 months (group 2). there was no abrupt closure (less than or equal to 1 day) or perioperative death in either group. in-hospital or perioperative complications in group 1 compared with group 2 were as follows: subacute closure (1-14 days), seven (18%) patients versus one (0.6%) patient, respectively, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction, five (13%) patients versus one (0.6%) patient, respectively; condition requiring urgent bypass surgery, one (2.5%) patient versus no patients, respectively. thus, the incidence of major complications such as death, myocardial infarction, or a condition requiring urgent bypass surgery was 15% in group 1 and 0.6% in group 2. clinical follow-up revealed that 92% of the patients were asymptomatic at 3 months after stenting compared with 6% before stenting (p less than 0.0001). of the 13 patients who were symptomatic, nine underwent cardiac catheterization and, ultimately, successful elective coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery. we conclude that a high delivery success rate can be expected with this device and that clinical thrombosis is less frequent in anticoagulated patients than in nonanticoagulated patients. furthermore, in this selected patient population, coronary stenting results in a low incidence of in-hospital and perioperative complications. clinical success, defined by absence of symptoms, appears to be sustained at 3 months.
transmission of rift valley fever virus by adult mosquitoes after ingestion of virus as larvae [published erratum appears in am j trop med hyg 1991 jun;44(6):580] we studied the ability of culex pipiens, aedes circumluteolus, and ae. mcintoshi, exposed as larvae to liver tissue from a rift valley fever (rvf) virus-infected hamster, to become infected and transstadially transmit virus to the adult and for the adults to transmit virus by bite to hamsters. after exposure as larvae, 9% (5/54) of adult cx. pipiens and 8% (38/505) of the adult ae. (neomelaniconion) species were infected. all of the infected cx. pipiens and about half of the infected ae. circumluteolus and ae. mcintoshi tested transmitted rvf virus by bite to hamsters. transmission rates for mosquitoes orally infected as larvae were higher than those for mosquitoes orally infected as adults. animals infected with rvf virus may abort or die in the vicinity of mosquito larvae breeding habitats and infected tissue from these animals may contaminate the water.
aids enteropathy: occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea objective: to investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause. design: case-control study. setting: referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center. patients: twenty-two patients with advanced hiv infection (19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [aids], 3 with aids-related complex) with chronic diarrhea, selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens, were compared with 13 patients with advanced hiv infection (9 with aids, 4 with aids-related complex) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy, viral culture, and morphometric studies. both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up. measurements and main results: eleven of twenty-two patients with hiv infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens (that is, undetected by routine studies) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies. mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea (5 each). patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss (mean, 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg; p less than 0.05) and shorter survival (1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive; p less than 0.004) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens (defined as "aids enteropathy"). duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in hiv-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls (p less than 0.001 for each). all three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses. conclusions: further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with aids who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases. however, altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced hiv infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with aids enteropathy. subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor, but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure. we suggest that t-cell dysfunction may play a role.
lyme disease: recommendations for diagnosis and treatment the incidence and the endemic range of lyme disease in the united states have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in lyme, connecticut, in 1975. because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods, diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate. the antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly. they show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results. the clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of lyme disease are reviewed. the reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness.
a case of amnesia after excision of the septum pellucidum. tumours of the septum pellucidum (sp) are rare and seldom associated with memory impairment either before or after operation. a patient is described who developed amnesia after transcallosal excision of a tumour of the sp. radiology did not show any major lesion of the brain areas traditionally associated with amnesia. because septal nuclei could have been damaged during surgery their possible role in memory functions is discussed.
hemolytic transfusion reaction following transfusion of frozen and washed autologous red cells a case of hemolytic transfusion reaction, accompanied by hypotension and followed by transient renal failure, occurred after the transfusion of 1 unit of previously frozen autologous red cells. subsequent investigation revealed the probable cause of the hemolysis to be inadequate deglycerolization of the unit. the cause of the associated symptoms is unknown. possibilities include nephrotoxic effects of hemoglobin or stroma, toxic effects of glycerol, or release of vasoactive or thrombogenic substances from lysed red cells. this case of a hemolytic reaction adds to the known risks of autologous transfusion.
sudden death behind the wheel from natural disease in drivers of four-wheeled motorized vehicles. the heart was studied in 30 persons who died suddenly from natural causes in the driver's seat of an automobile, truck or bus. twenty had cardiac arrest while driving and the other 10 while sitting in the driver's seat of a parked vehicle. of the 20 drivers, 16 died from atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (cad): 12 (75%) had minor collisions and 4 did not. of the 16 with fatal cad, an average of 2.3 +/- 0.8 of the 4 major coronary arteries were narrowed greater than 75% in cross-sectional area (csa) by plaque; of 668 five-mm segments of the 4 major (right, left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex) coronary arteries in 13 of these 16 cases, 27 (4%) were narrowed 96 to 100% and 127 (19%) were narrowed 76 to 95% in csa by plaque. the remaining 4 drivers died from noncoronary conditions: aortic rupture associated with the marfan syndrome in 1; cardiac sarcoidosis in 1; thoracic aortic dissection in 1; and severe mitral regurgitation from infective endocarditis, which had healed in 1. the other 10 persons were found dead in the driver's seat of a parked vehicle and 8 of them had fatal cad. of the 8 cad victims, an average of 2.5 +/- 1.2 of the 4 major coronary arteries was narrowed greater than 75% by plaque; of the 283 five-mm segments of coronary arteries in 7 of the 8 cases, 44 (16%) were narrowed 96 to 100% and 69 (24%) were narrowed 76 to 95% in csa by plaque.
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms. in a series of 517 operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm from 1971 to 1988 there were 45 cases (8.7%) with an inflammatory aneurysm with a typical thick glistening whitish fibrous layer. almost two-third of the patients had rather severe chronic or acute progressive pain in the abdomen, the back or the flank. unilateral (7) or bilateral (2) hydronephrosis due to ureteral compression occurred in 9 patients (20%). a diagnosis of inflammatory aneurysm was made preoperatively only in 10 patients. in 8 of the 9 patients with hydronephrosis ureterolysis was done, unilaterally (6) or bilaterally (2). after ureterolysis all had complete resolution of the hydronephrosis. preoperative diagnostic methods are excretory urography, showing medial deviation, ultrasonography and ct-scanning of the abdominal aorta. all patients with an inflammatory aneurysm should undergo aortic replacement to prevent rupture and achieve pain relief. ureterolysis in cases of hydronephrosis is strongly recommended and may be performed safely and with excellent results.
management and outcomes of pregnancies complicated by human b19 parvovirus infection: a prospective study during a large statewide outbreak of fifth disease in connecticut in 1988, 39 pregnant women were identified who had serologic evidence of recent human b19 parvovirus infection. the patients were followed up prospectively with targeted fetal ultrasonographic examinations to detect signs of fetal hydrops. of these 39 pregnant women, 37 had healthy infants and two patients had miscarriages. none of the fetuses developed hydrops. we propose that pregnant women exposed to b19 parvovirus be tested for evidence of igg and igm b19-specific antibodies and that targeted fetal ultrasonography be considered when igm antibodies are found. percutaneous umbilical blood sampling and intrauterine transfusion can be considered in cases of b19 parvovirus-associated hydrops and anemia. the overall fetal loss rate in this prospective follow-up group was 5%.
diffuse esophageal leiomyomatosis in a patient with alport syndrome: ct demonstration. in a patient with progressive dysphagia, postprandial vomiting, and a history of alport syndrome, barium and manometric studies had been interpreted as consistent with achalasia, but a subsequent computed tomographic (ct) scan of the thorax was suggestive of a lower esophageal intramural mass. multiple leiomyomas of the esophagus were later proved at thoracotomy. differences between adult and pediatric leiomyomas and the association of leiomyomas with alport syndrome are discussed.
diagnosis of tracheal injury in mechanically ventilated premature infants by flexible bronchoscopy. a pilot study. flexible bronchoscopy (fb) is uniquely suited for the study of large airway lesions in the ventilated premature infant. however, no standardized clinical scoring system of distal tracheal injury exists and the adverse consequences of fb in ventilated premature infants are not well described. using a prototype olympus fiberoptic ultrathin bronchoscope with a directable tip and an outer diameter of 2.2 mm, we serially scored distal tracheal injury in conventionally ventilated premature infants on the basis of mucosal and obstructive changes observed at bronchoscopy. in addition, we prospectively evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiovascular and pulmonary effects during, immediately after, and within 1 h of fb. we performed 21 fbs in eight conventionally ventilated premature infants with birth weight of 1,239 +/- 438 g and gestational age of 30 +/- 3 weeks. the carina and mainstem bronchi were easily visualized in all infants using the prototype bronchoscope. during the first several days of life, moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury occurred frequently, while moderate-to-severe obstructive injury occurred infrequently. distal mucosal injury appeared to improve during the fourth week of life. mild distal obstructive injury began to appear during the second week of life. adverse consequences of fb observed in our patient population included transient hypoxemia and bradycardia during fb, changes in systolic blood pressure immediately and within 1 h after fb, and emesis immediately after fb. serious adverse cardiovascular or pulmonary effects were not observed. we conclude that fb can be performed safely with appropriate monitoring and is a useful tool in the clinical assessment and serial evaluation of distal tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants. we speculate that moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury may be associated with the development of later obstructive injury. on the basis of this preliminary study, further prospective investigations of tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants appear to be warranted.
antiarrhythmic efficacy of a new class iii agent, uk-68,798, during chronic myocardial infarction: evaluation using three-dimensional mapping. uk-68,798 is a potent class iii antiarrhythmic agent that selectively lengthens the effective refractory period (erp) in isolated tissue without affecting conduction velocity. the present study was performed to evaluate the antiarrhythmic efficacy of uk-68,798 (30 micrograms/kg i.v.) in dogs with a previous myocardial infarction. uk-68,798 did not alter the pq interval or qrs duration of the surface electrocardiogram but did increase the q-tc interval significantly. the ventricular erp was increased significantly (p less than .01) at a basic cycle length of stimulation of either 300 ms (erp increased 24 +/- 10 ms) or 250 ms (erp increased 20 +/- 12 msec), indicating that the response was preserved at more rapid rates. uk-68,798 prevented the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in six of seven animals (86%, p = .03). however, uk-68,798 failed to prevent the induction of ventricular fibrillation (vf) in dogs where vf was the only arrhythmia induced. to evaluate the mechanisms responsible for the prevention of ventricular tachycardia and lack of efficacy against inducible vf, detailed three-dimensional activation mapping of the heart in vivo was used. induction of ventricular tachycardia was prevented by uk-68,798 due to a lengthening of the erp in the epicardial region surrounding the infarct with no effect on conduction velocity even in periinfarct regions bordering the infarct. in contrast, the induction of vf was dependent on a rapid nonreentrant or focal mechanism that was not altered by the lengthening of erp with uk-68,798. thus, uk-68,798 is a selective class iii antiarrhythmic agent that is likely to be efficacious in preventing arrhythmias due to a reentrant mechanism in patients with a previous myocardial infarction.
role of hypoxic drive in regulation of postapneic ventilation during sleep in patients with obstructive sleep apnea. to elucidate the role of chemoresponsiveness in determining postapneic ventilation in sleep-disordered periodic breathing, we measured ventilatory response associated with apnea-induced arterial oxygen desaturation during sleep and compared it with the awake hypoxic ventilatory response (hvr) in 12 male patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa). awake hvr was measured at a slight hypocapnic level (end-tidal pco2 = 37 +/- 1 mm hg, mean +/- sem), and separately at a pco2 of 45 mm hg. during non-rem sleep both the ventilatory rate (ve) and the average respiratory frequency (f) in the ventilatory phase between apneic episodes were inversely correlated with the nadir of arterial oxygen saturation (nsao2) produced by the preceding apneic phase in all patients (ve versus nsao2; r = -0.74 +/- 0.03, mean +/- sem; f versus nsao2, r = -0.56 +/- 0.04). the average tidal volume (vt) also was correlated with nsao2 in 10 of the patients (r = -0.56 +/- 0.05). during rem sleep ve was correlated with nsao2 in 11 patients (r = -0.75 +/- 0.03, p less than 0.02). the response of ve to nsao2 (delta ve/delta nsao2) varied widely among the patients (non-rem, 0.52 to 2.16; rem, 0.29 to 1.44 l/min/%) and was significantly lower during rem than non-rem sleep (p less than 0.01). the value of delta ve/delta nsao2 during both non-rem and rem sleep was correlated with awake hvr at an end-tidal pco2 of 45 mm hg (non-rem, r = 0.83, p less than 0.02; rem, r = 0.76, p less than 0.05) but not with that at the hypocapnic level.
pelvic pain: lessons from anatomy and physiology. pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department. for physiologic reasons, pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ, and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize. on the other hand, differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis. the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain, and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation, ischemia, or colic. a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain.
limitation of myocardial infarct size by a right ventricular assist device. to evaluate the effects of an rvad on myocardial ischemic injury during right coronary artery (rca) ligation, a pneumatically driven pusher plate pump was inserted between the right atrium and pulmonary artery, and the rca was ligated at its origin for two hr. there were 18 sheep, of which nine each served as the control and rvad groups. hemodynamic parameters and blood samples were collected from the coronary sinus. area at risk and area of infarct were detected by gentian violet injection and triphenyltetrazolium (ttc) staining. hemodynamic parameters (left ventricular systolic pressure (lvsp), cardiac output (co], and creatine kinase levels in coronary sinus blood tended to be beneficial, to some degree, in the rvad group. electron microscopic examination revealed chromatin clumping and mitochondrial destruction, however this ultrastructural damage was more severe in the control group. the ratio of area of infarct to area at risk in the rvad group was significantly less than that in the control group, being 20.25 +/- 6.93% vs. 47.24 +/- 10.53% (p less than 0.05). the infarct size induced by rca occlusion was significantly reduced by the rvad, due to the right ventricular unloading via reduced myocardial oxygen demand.
mapping genes in diabetes. genetic epidemiological perspective. research on mapping diabetes-susceptibility genes is dependent on several factors, including the existence of a single major gene for susceptibility, genetic homogeneity, and the existence of appropriate clinical material. the power to detect susceptibility genes is dependent on the risks in relatives and the distance of genetic markers from the susceptibility genes. for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm), the best-fitting risk models are those with a single major locus with residual polygenic factors. the major locus effect is likely represented by genes in the hla complex, because specific genotypes have been found to affect iddm risk significantly. thus, mapping the remaining polygenic iddm susceptibility factors--each of small effect--is a difficult and long task. for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm), the likely risk models result in few genes with moderate effect. models of niddm have significant residual polygenic variation remaining, reflecting the importance of multiple loci with small effect, environmental effects, or genetic heterogeneity; however, the prospects for mapping genes that provide at least moderate susceptibility for niddm now appear promising.
endometrioma. an intra-abdominal troublemaker. a ten-year review of intestinal and abdominal wall endometriomas is reported. seven cases of intestinal and two cases of abdominal wall endometriomas are presented. symptoms were varied but a majority had some gynecologic complaint. in this select group of patients, preoperative investigations did not assist in establishing the diagnosis. all patients underwent surgery and coexisting inflammatory bowel disease was present in two patients. this review suggests that endometrioma of the intestine requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis and that danazol does not appear to be effective treatment for these patients.
comparison of ulcer surgery at a veterans administration and university hospital. we compared the patient populations and outcome of surgery for peptic ulcer disease in 81 patients at a veterans administration hospital (ovah) and 97 patients at an affiliated university hospital (unh). the surgeons and choice of operation were comparable at both facilities. patients were similar with respect to severity of ulcer disease, percentage of elderly patients and distribution of comorbid conditions. there were significantly more female patients (45% vs 2%, p less than 0.05), patients less than 40 years old (22% vs 6%, p less than 0.05), and patients with gastric ulcers (27% vs 12%, p less than 0.05) at unh. alcoholism was more prevalent at ovah (57% vs 22%, p less than 0.05). postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were 27 per cent and 14 per cent at ovah and 25 per cent and 16 per cent at unh. these data suggest that quality of care for surgical therapy of ulcer disease at a va hospital is comparable to its tertiary care affiliate with a similar patient population.
traction injury in the internal mammary artery. report of a case and review of the literature. the internal mammary artery (ima) is now used routinely along with saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization procedures. we have documented a particular form of non-perforating injury which may reduce blood flow during operation or may lead to early closure of the ima bypass graft. traction injury to the intima is well documented in other vessles but has not been previously reported in the ima. we present a potentially disastrous example of traction injury to the ima.
histochemical demonstration of 5'-nucleotidase activity in inflammatory muscle disease. using a histochemical method, 5'-nucleotidase activity was investigated in 80 muscle biopsy specimens, including specimens from eight patients with muscular dystrophy, 18 with nonspecific type ii fiber atrophy, 15 with polymyositis, and 29 histologically normal controls. an interstitial reaction for 5'-nucleotidase was associated with an inflammatory infiltrate in 19 of 21 positive cases. of the 15 cases of polymyositis, 14 showed an extensive interstitial reaction surrounding most of the myofibers and extending well away from the areas infiltrated by inflammatory cells. the extensive nature of this reaction makes 5'-nucleotidase activity a useful adjuvant in the diagnosis of inflammatory muscle disease.
long-term experience with a totally implanted catheter system in cancer patients. long-term experience with totally implanted catheter systems (tics) is limited. we retrospectively evaluated the performance and long-term complications of tics for intravenous infusion in cancer patients; 134 systems were implanted in 128 patients. the median duration of implantation was 144 weeks with 49 systems implanted for more than one year. complications related to surgical factors included malposition of reservoir (2%), skin perforation or wound dehiscence (1.5%) and pneumothorax (less than 1%). complications not related to surgical factors included: drug extravasation (1.5%), mechanical malfunction (1.5%), vein thrombosis (less than 1%), clotting of the reservoir or catheter (2%), skin infection (1.5%), and sepsis (less than 1%). the total complication rate was 13%. most complications resolved spontaneously or with medical treatment and only 6 patients (4.6%) required re-implantation of a second system. we conclude that with long-term usage of tics, the complication rate remains low, making it a safe and viable alternative for patients requiring long-term intravenous therapy.
the iris in williams syndrome. forty three children with williams syndrome and 124 control subjects had their eyes photographed. the photographs were examined by three ophthalmologists and four geneticists of varying experience. a stellate pattern was noted more often in the irides of patients with williams syndrome (51%) than in those of the control subjects (12%), and was more difficult to detect, or was absent, in heavily pigmented irides. we conclude that the stellate pattern is of diagnostic importance, particularly if the pattern is carefully defined and the clinician is experienced.
systems analysis of cerebrovascular pressure transmission: an observational study in head-injured patients. in an observational study in head-injured patients, cerebrovascular pressure transmission was investigated using a systems analysis approach whereby the blood pressure (bp) waveform was used as a measure of an input stimulus to the cerebrovascular bed (cvb) and the intracranial pressure (icp) waveform as the response to that stimulus. the transfer function is a measure of how much pressure is transmitted through the cvb at a given frequency and is calculated using fourier analysis of the pressure waveforms. the transfer function allows quantification of the pressure transmission performance of the cvb, thus providing a basis for comparison between normal and abnormal function. fifteen hundred samples of icp and bp waveforms were collected from 30 head-injured patients via microcomputer. off-line spectral analysis of the waveform database revealed four main classes of transfer function: those with an overall flat transfer function (curve type 1); those with an elevated low-frequency response (curve type 2); those with an elevated high-frequency response (curve type 3); and those exhibiting both an elevated low- and high-frequency response (curve type 4). curve types 2 and 4 were most often associated with raised icp (greater than 20 mm hg), whereas curve types 1 and 3 were most often affiliated with icp less than 15 mm hg. studies of this type may provide insight into the pathophysiology of the cvb and ultimately aid in the prediction and treatment of raised icp.
diabetes insipidus associated with craniopharyngioma in pregnancy. a case is presented of a pregnancy complicated by a suprasellar mass diagnosed at 27 weeks' gestation. this patient developed diabetes insipidus, which was successfully treated with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin. thyrotropin-releasing hormone and acth stimulation tests were also abnormal, requiring the institution of thyroid and cortisol replacement therapy. the patient was delivered at 34 weeks' gestation secondary to worsening visual field testing. a craniotomy was performed in the postpartum period with removal of a craniopharyngioma. with successful medical treatment and careful observation, surgical intervention may be postponed until postpartum or until a gestational age with lower neonatal morbidity and mortality is reached.
emergency tracheal intubation in the postanesthesia care unit: physician error or patient disease? inadequate airway maintenance has been a major factor in perioperative morbidity. to determine the incidence and etiology of emergency tracheal intubations in the postanesthesia care unit (pacu), we retrospectively reviewed 13,593 consecutive admissions to our pacu from october 1986 through october 1988. twenty-six patients (26/13,593 = 0.19%) required the insertion of an endotracheal tube while in the pacu. seventy-seven percent (20/26) of the intubations occurred within 1 h of extubation and/or admission to the pacu. intubation was more common at the extremes of age; 54% of those intubated were more than 60 yr old (p = 0.003); 19% were less than 3 yr old (p less than 0.05). twenty-three percent of the intubated patients had undergone otolaryngologic procedures (p = 0.008). interestingly, 73% of the intubations occurred during the months of january through june (p = 0.016). median pacu admission scores were lower for the intubated group (p less than 0.001). there was no association between intubation and gender (p = 0.74), anesthetic technique (p = 0.41), or anesthetic agent (p = 0.49). of the 26 intubations, 18 (69%) were considered to be directly related to anesthetic management. despite the extremely low incidence of emergency tracheal intubation in a heterogeneous group of patients admitted to our pacu, preventable anesthesia-related etiologic factors including excessive sedative or anesthetic effect, inappropriate fluid management, persistent muscle relaxant effect, and upper airway obstruction contributed to the majority of these intubations.
gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of lymphoma/leukemia. guidelines for use based on a multiinstitutional study. the demonstration of immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in human lymphoproliferative processes with the use of dna hybridization has gained great popularity as a sensitive laboratory adjunct to diagnostic hematopathology. the fact that nearly all b- or t-cell malignant lymphomas and leukemias have one or more rearranged antigen receptor genes provides a biologic basis for a diagnostic test. to formally analyze the sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility of gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of human lymphoproliferative disease, the authors conducted a large, multiinstitutional study. through a blinded, controlled approach, gene rearrangement analysis of 275 cases was shown to carry a high correlation with conventional phenotyping and histologic diagnosis, with only minor false-positive and false-negative rates. significantly, no rearrangements were detected in normal lymphoid tissues or carcinomas, sarcomas, or melanomas. in a randomized study of 50 cases, laboratory results showed a high rate of interlaboratory agreement, regardless of the level of previous experience. furthermore, the reproducibility of interpretation of data (southern blot autoradiograms) of 192 cases showed high concordance among 11 observers from multiple laboratories. based on these findings, the authors propose a set of guidelines for interpretation of gene rearrangement analysis that, if carefully followed, renders this a highly reproducible, safe, and accurate addition to the diagnostic regimen for human lymphoproliferative processes.
ligation of the superficial femoral vein in prevention of pulmonary embolism: an old fashion procedure? from 1974 to 1988, interruption of the superficial femoral vein (sfv) was performed to prevent pulmonary embolism (pe) in 73 patients. the mean age of the patients was 62 years. phlebography showed thrombi in the following localizations: calf veins (67.3%), superficial femoral or popliteal veins (56.6%), common femoral veins (19.5%) and iliac veins (2.7%). a floating thrombus in the popliteal or femoral vein was the main indication for surgery in 97.3% of patients. pulmonary embolism had occurred in 76.7% and was associated with neoplasm in 13.7%. ligation of the sfv was performed in 93 limbs and completed iliac or femoral thrombectomy in 32.3%. the procedure was performed under locoregional anesthesia in 82.9% of the cases. hospital mortality was 1.4% and 3 year survival, considering only pe related deaths was 95.3 +/- 2.7%. follow-up was complete for all patients and averaged 3.0 years, for a 3 years pe-free rate of 90.8 +/- 3.6%. persistent symptoms included increased limb tenseness in 12.5% and mild ankle edema in 25%. bilateral strain-gauge plethysmography (sgp) was obtained in 65 limbs. the time necessary to obtain a 50, 75 and 100% decrease in calf volume (respectively t1/2, t3/4 and tt) was calculated for the operated limb and compared with the untreated limbs used as controls. a prolongation of t1/2 from 2.5 +/- 0.3 sec in controls to 4.3 +/- 0.4 sec in the operated limb (p less than 0.01) was found. thus, our experience with ligation of the superficial femoral vein is favourable since long-term ill effects have been minimal and strain gauge plethysmography (sgp) showed only mildly altered venous drainage.
tissue changes around loose prostheses. a canine model to investigate the effects of an antiinflammatory agent. the aseptically loosened prosthesis provided a means for investigating the in vivo and in vitro activity of the cells associated with the loosening process in seven dogs. the cells were isolated and maintained in culture for sufficient periods of time so that their biologic activity could be studied as well as the effect of different agents added to the cells in vivo or in vitro. the biologic response as determined by interleukin-1 and prostaglandin e2 activity paralleled the roentgenographic appearance of loosening and the technetium images and observations made at the time of revision surgery. the correlation between clinical, roentgenographic, histologic, and biochemical loosening indicates that the canine model is suitable for investigating the mechanisms of prosthetic failure. a canine model permits the study of possible nonsurgical therapeutic interventions with the ultimate hope of stopping or slowing the loosening process.
miller-fisher syndrome and pontine abnormalities on mri: a case report. the authors report a patient with miller-fisher syndrome in whom mri of the brain stem showed increased signal density on t2 sequence anterior to the fourth ventricle, on the right and the left. the authors discuss the relation between these mri abnormalities and some clinical features of the syndrome. the authors believe that the cardinal features of miller-fisher syndrome are due to peripheral nervous system dysfunction, but that this does not preclude a possible central nervous system involvement.
electrotonic influences on action potentials from isolated ventricular cells. this work combines a theoretical study of electrical interactions between two excitable heart cells, using a variable coupling resistance, with experimental studies on isolated rabbit ventricular cells coupled with a variable coupling resistance to a passive resistance and capacitance circuit. the theoretical results show that the response of an isolated cell to an increased frequency of stimulation is strongly altered by the presence of a coupling resistance to another cell. as the coupling resistance gradually is decreased, the stimulated cell becomes able to respond successfully to more rapid stimulation, and then, at levels of coupling resistance that allow conduction between the two cells, the coupled pair of cells exhibits arrhythmic interactions not predicted by the intrinsic properties of either cell. the experimental results show that the isolated rabbit ventricular cell is extremely sensitive to even a very small electrical load, with shortening of the action potential by 50% with electrical coupling to a model cell (of similar input resistance and capacitance to the ventricular cell) as high as 1,000 m omega, even though the action potential amplitude and current threshold are very insensitive to the electrical load.
partial gastric corpectomy results in hypergastrinemia and development of gastric enterochromaffinlike-cell carcinoids in the rat. studies in the rat have shown that partial gastric corpectomy, in which about 75% of the acid-producing oxyntic mucosa was removed, leads to markedly reduced acid secretion and a feedback increase in the plasma gastrin levels. ten weeks after operation, the gastric enterochromaffin (ecl)-like cell density in the remaining part of the oxyntic mucosa had increased significantly. in the present study, the effects on the gastric ecl cells of lifelong persistent hypergastrinemia induced by partial (75%) corpectomy have been investigated. seventy-five partially corpectomized rats and 40 control rats were investigated for plasma gastrin and oxyntic mucosal changes in a 124-week study. the partially corpectomized rats showed increased plasma gastrin levels after the operation; the mean increase compared with the controls was almost 10-fold during the entire study. the remaining oxyntic mucosa of the partially corpectomized rats differed from that of control rats in two respects, showing first general hypertrophy and second a marked hyperplasia of argyrophil ecl cells. the degree and incidence of these changes increased towards the end of the study, i.e., in the aging rats. an age-related increase in ecl-cell density occurred spontaneously also in the control rats but to a lesser extent than in the partially corpectomized group. ecl-cell carcinoids were found in the oxyntic mucosa of 26 of the 75 partially corpectomized rats. the first carcinoid was found 78 weeks after the beginning of the study. six rats with carcinoids (23%) were found before week 104 (2 years) and the remainder, 20 (77%), were discovered later. no carcinoid tumor was found in the control rats. it is concluded that lifelong hypergastrinemia induced by partial corpectomy leads to the development of ecl-cell carcinoids in the oxyntic mucosa of some rats towards the end of their life span. this observation strongly supports the hypothesis that the gastric ecl-cell carcinoids found in rats treated with antisecretory drugs are caused by long-standing hypergastrinemia developing secondary to inhibition of gastric acid secretion.
peptic ulcer disease. how to treat it now. options for treatment of peptic ulcer disease are becoming more diverse. most new agents are effective yet offer no real advantage over more traditional therapy. however, omeprazole (prilosec) may be of benefit owing to its potent inhibition of acid secretion, but it is not yet approved for this purpose. whether treatment of helicobacter pylori infection will prove beneficial is not yet known, but the answer should be forthcoming. finally, as with any disease process, alleviation of risk factors is always important. appropriate counseling regarding use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cigarette smoking is a necessity.
evaluation of preoperative computed tomography in gastric malignancy. ninety patients with gastric malignancy underwent computed tomography (ct) before surgery. the ct findings regarding neoplastic invasion of adjacent organs and metastasis or enlarged lymph nodes were compared with the findings at laparotomy (85 cases) or autopsy (5 cases), thus permitting evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of ct and its usefulness for predicting resectability. when present, neoplastic invasion of adjacent organs was overestimated or underestimated by ct in 21 cases. invasion of adjacent organs according to ct was false positive in 17 cases and false negative in 11 cases. when liver metastasis or enlarged regional or distant lymph nodes were present, ct overestimated or underestimated their extent in 17 cases, and the diagnosis was false positive in one case and false negative in 33 cases. the positive and negative predictive values of ct concerning resectability of the tumor were 81% and 64%, respectively. routine preoperative ct in gastric malignancy is concluded to be of limited value and surgical exploration, when feasible, remains the method of choice.
changes in thermal and mechanical pain thresholds in hand amputees. a clinical and physiological long-term follow-up. in a previous study, allodynia to cold and vibratory stimuli was found in the finger stumps of 24 patients with amputations, control values being obtained from fingers of the intact contralateral hand. when treated with regional intravenous guanethidine block (rgb), some of the patients only had short-lasting relief of symptoms, whereas others experienced a more long-lasting beneficial effect. in the present long-term follow-up study the patients were re-examined 6 years after the rgb treatment. the aim was to investigate whether the earlier symptoms and signs persisted, and whether there were any differences in these respects, between patients with long-lasting (group 1) and short-lasting relief of symptoms after rgb (group 2). all 24 patients were asked to answer a questionnaire concerning their clinical symptoms. in addition, 14 of them visited the laboratory for determination of thermal and vibration-induced pain thresholds. comparisons were made with values obtained at the first examination before rgb treatment and with values from 14 healthy subjects tested in a similar way on 2 occasions with an interval of 8 years. twenty of 23 patients reported that cold exposure still evoked stump pain. however, the threshold measurements showed that with time the patients had become more tolerant to thermal stimuli not only in the injured but also in the uninjured hand. a rise in pain threshold was also observed when vibration-induced pain was tested in the injured hand. there was no significant difference between groups 1 and 2. similar changes in pain thresholds with time were not observed in the group of healthy control subjects.
time course of improvement in ventricular function after ablation of incessant automatic atrial tachycardia. a patient with dilated cardiomyopathy and supraventricular tachycardia presumed to be of sinus origin was referred for cardiac transplantation. the extreme rate of the tachycardia during exercise, profound fluctuations in heart rate, and the presence of an abnormal p wave axis suggested the diagnosis of incessant ectopic atrial tachycardia rather than compensatory sinus tachycardia. electrophysiologic study with endocardial activation sequence mapping confirmed the diagnosis of an ectopic left atrial automatic tachycardia, after which surgical cryoablation of the left atrial focus was carried out successfully and sinus rhythm was restored. serial radionuclide angiocardiograms obtained before and after surgery demonstrated a very rapid recovery of left ventricular function to nearly normal within the first month after surgery, followed by further improvement to normal over the next several months. the diagnosis of tachycardia-related cardiomyopathy should be seriously considered in any patient with apparently end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy and persistent resting tachycardia.
effect of indomethacin on pain relief after thoracotomy. the effect of indomethacin on postoperative pain was studied in 60 adult patients undergoing thoracotomy in a prospective, randomized, double-blind manner. patients receiving indomethacin required significantly less opioid after operation and had significantly lower pain scores compared with the control group. pain on movement and on coughing were reduced also. no major adverse effects were encountered.
intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in newborn lambs infected with group b streptococcus. to determine the efficacy of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation (iabc) in neonatal group b streptococcal (gbs) infection, we studied five lambs, 10-14 days old, weighing from 4.7 to 6.7 kg. the lambs were instrumented with arterial and venous catheters, and a 5 french intra-aortic balloon catheter with balloon volumes of 3-5 ml was inserted into the femoral artery. a continuous infusion of heat-killed gbs organisms was infused at a rate of 1.7 to 6.2 x 10(8) org/kg/min, until a 30-50% decrease in cardiac output was attained. iabc was then instituted for 30 minutes, hemodynamic measurements repeated, and iabc was stopped. gbs infusion caused significant decreases in cardiac output (282 +/- 62 vs. 165 +/- 38 ml/min/kg) and ph (7.39 +/- 0.02 vs. 7.33 +/- 0.06), and significant increases in mean pulmonary artery pressure (14.4 +/- 2.1 vs. 36.2 +/- 12.1 mm hg) and pulmonary vascular resistance (1.20 +/- 0.38 vs. 5.08 +/- 1.49 mm hg/l/min/kg). institution of iabc during continuous gbs infusion significantly increased cardiac output (225 +/- 1.27 ml/min/kg). the institution of the iabc also resulted in a significant decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance (2.6 +/- 1.3 mm hg/l/min/kg). the authors conclude that iabc improves cardiac output and decreases pulmonary vascular resistance in newborn lambs with gbs infection.
liver abscess complicating intratumoral ethanol injection therapy for hcc. we report a patient who developed multiple liver abscesses and sepsis caused by lactobacilli after the percutaneous intratumoral injection of ethanol for hepatocellular carcinoma. we diagnosed the liver abscess at an early stage because of a the finding of gas on ultrasound and computed tomography. blood cultures grew gram-positive rods, which were of the lactobacillus species. the patient responded to the administration of antibiotics, and his hepatic tumors have not recurred in the 7 months since treatment. this is the first report of liver abscess following percutaneous ethanol injection therapy.
stimulation of active renin release in normal and hypertensive pregnancy. 1. active plasma renin concentration but not total renin concentration is reduced in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension compared with normotensive pregnant women. this study was conducted to determine whether women with pregnancy-induced hypertension are able to stimulate release of active renin. 2. active plasma renin concentration was measured as the generation of angiotensin i at physiological ph in the presence of excess renin substrate, and total renin concentration was determined in the same way after trypsin activation. inactive plasma renin concentration was calculated as the difference between total renin and active plasma renin concentrations. 3. resting active plasma renin concentration was significantly greater in third-trimester primigravidae compared with normotensive non-pregnant women and active plasma renin and total renin concentrations rose significantly without a fall in inactive plasma renin concentration in both groups after 2 h ambulation, suggesting increased release of active plasma renin and not conversion of circulating inactive to active renin. these responses were blunted in women taking oral contraceptives. 4. although the active plasma renin concentration was significantly reduced in third-trimester primigravidae with pregnancy-induced hypertension, total renin concentration was not significantly different compared with normotensive women of similar gestation and in both groups 30 min 60 degrees head-up tilt increased active but not inactive plasma renin concentration. 5. these studies show that in normal pregnancy active plasma renin concentration can be stimulated to a similar extent as in non-pregnant women, despite a higher resting level. this appears to be due to increased secretion of active plasma renin rather than conversion of circulating inactive to active renin.
arteriovenous fistula as a complication of temporary pacemaker insertion: treatment with percutaneous embolization. arteriovenous fistula is a rare complication of central venous catheterization. we present a case of right internal mammary artery-to-right innominate vein fistula resulting from emergent insertion of a temporary pacemaker. percutaneous management is discussed and the literature is reviewed.
autoimmunity and malignancy. in patients with autoimmune diseases malignancy is observed more frequently than in an age-matched control group. in strains of mice susceptible to autoimmune diseases, the incidence of lymphoreticular malignancies is increased. although viruses have not been directly implicated in their pathogenesis or etiology, there are suggestions that slow viruses may be involved. viruses have been found to be important in the development of lymphomas. hence in genetically susceptible animals, viruses can initiate the autoimmune process. prolonged stimulation of the autoimmune process or a prolonged state of immunodeficiency could trigger or activate genes or their products, which could result in the development of malignancy.
a new bioprosthetic cardiac valve with reduced calcification. a bioprosthetic cardiac valve cross-linked with a glycerol polyglycidyl ether polyepoxy compound (pc) was developed in order to reduce calcification and degeneration, which often occurs in bioprosthetic cardiac valves. aortic valves harvested from dogs were treated with pc (pc valve). right ventricle (rv)-pulmonary artery (pa) bypasses were placed in 12 dogs with pc-valved conduits, and the main pa was ligated. x-ray right ventriculography at 36 days (1 dog) and 37 days (1 dog) revealed an excellent open/close performance of the pc valve, and there was no visible thrombus in the valve. in our basic study, pc treated collagen gel disks implanted in the subcutaneous layer of growing rats showed remarkably less calcium deposition than did those treated with glutaraldehyde (ga). biologic materials cross-linked with pc maintain their pliability, and become more hydrophilic and more hydrated than those cross-linked with ga. the hydrophilicity and hydration provide sufficient antithrombogenicity and a suitable environment for metabolism in the tissue fluid which contains oxygen, nutritive substances, and electrolytes, leading to inhibition of material degeneration. therefore, pc valves are expected to show good valve function, sufficient antithrombogenicity, and excellent durability with less calcification, when compared to ga treated valves.
adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder. a premalignant lesion? gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract, but its early diagnosis is uncommon. the use of ultrasonography has increased the detection of benign gallbladder tumors, and the premalignant potential of gallbladder adenomas is now undisputed. adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder has recently been suggested to have malignant potential, and we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder occurring in localized adenomyomatosis that was successfully treated by radical curative surgery. the more rigorous use of ultrasonography and a more aggressive approach to "benign" polypoid lesions of the gallbladder may represent the best way of achieving early diagnosis and cure in gallbladder cancer.
the relation of serum cholesterol to risk of coronary heart disease: implications for the elderly. elevated cholesterol is a known risk factor for coronary heart disease (chd) in young and middle-aged persons. because of the high prevalence of chd in a growing elderly population, physicians must decide whether to devote clinical attention to this condition in older patients. longitudinal cohort studies show that while the association between serum cholesterol and chd decreases after age 55 years, it still persists. primary prevention trials performed mostly on middle-aged men have reduced the incidence rate of chd through cholesterol lowering but they have yet to show a reduction in overall mortality. secondary prevention studies of lipid alteration have reported decreased mortality and slowed progression of coronary stenoses, again in predominantly male subjects aged less than 60 years. implications of these findings for care of older patients are discussed along with recommendations for clinical management and future research.
multivariate data reduction by principal components, with application to neurological scoring instruments. principal components analysis is widely used as a practical tool for the analysis of multivariate data. the aim of this analysis is to reduce the dimensionality of a multivariate data set to the smallest number of meaningful and independent dimensions. the analysis can also provide interpretable linear functions of the original measured variables that may serve as valuable indices of variation. a brief introduction to principal components analysis is given herein, followed by an examination of a particular set of multivariate data accruing from a study of acute brain injuries in a pediatric population, in which severity of brain injury had been assessed with the glasgow coma scale (cgs). principal components analysis reveals that the gcs sum score is a particularly inefficient summarizer of information in this cohort. the determination of an objective weighting of measured variables, as provided through principal components analysis, is essential in the construction of meaningful neurological scoring instruments.
mammographic screening of women with increased risk of breast cancer. five hundred one women from dallas county, texas who participated in the american cancer society 1987 texas breast screening project were selected because of a self-reported family history of breast cancer (cases). they were matched with 501 randomly selected women from the same county with no family history (controls). although there was a statistically significant trend with age for an increasing proportion of women to report having undergone mammography, there was no significant difference when comparing mammographic histories of cases with controls after controlling for age (31.5% versus 35.1%, p = 0.33). significantly more cases (79%) perceived their risk for breast cancer to be moderate or greater compared with controls (54%, p less than 0.0001), but mammographic histories were not different when controlling for perceived risk. both cases and controls cited lack of physician referral and cost as their reasons for not having undergone mammography. women at increased risk for breast cancer (because of their family history) are not undergoing regular mammographic screening despite their self-awareness of the increase in their risk.
angiographic localization of spinal cord blood supply and its relationship to postoperative paraplegia. forty-seven patients underwent selective catheterization of middle and lower thoracic intercostal and upper lumbar arteries to define the origin of the artery of adamkiewicz. one patient had significant atheroembolism, and a second had transient lower extremity paresthesias. no other complications occurred. the origin was found in 26 (55%), and 21 patients underwent thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with this knowledge. when the critical lumbar or intercostal artery could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis, all 12 patients could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis, all 12 patients survived, and one was paralyzed. however, if the aneurysm repair mandated a midgraft anastomosis to intercostal arteries critical to spinal cord perfusion, seven of nine patients either died or were paralyzed (p less than 0.05). in the group of 19 patients operated on in whom spinal cord blood supply was not identified three patients had a technically unsuccessful operation; two died, and one was paralyzed. twelve of 16 patients who had an adequate, but unsuccessful attempt at localization were treated by intercostal "neglect" and survived. late paresis developed in two patients, but they are walking now. one of the patients who died had multiple systems failure and awakened paraplegic. she had a patent, enlarged, thoracic radicular artery at t-5 which probably supplied to spinal cord and which was missed angiographically. paralysis was associated with aneurysm extent (group 2 and iii b, dissections vs group 1 & 3, p less than 0.05). selective intercostal angiography requires further refinement, but it is safe and offers the promise of understanding the mechanisms and risks of spinal cord complications after repair of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms.
inotropic effects of angiotensin ii on human cardiac muscle in vitro. the direct effects of angiotensin ii (ang ii) on human cardiac muscle were investigated using isolated trabecular muscles from failing and functionally normal hearts. atrial and ventricular trabeculae were studied. results demonstrated a positive inotropic effect of ang ii on human cardiac muscle. comparison of the effects of ang ii among groups indicated that the responsiveness tended to be greater in atrial and normal muscle compared with failing muscle. results of this study also demonstrated heterogeneity in the responsiveness to ang ii among human muscles, which was not correlated with patient age, sex, diagnosis, prior treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, or heart function. a significant correlation between response to ang ii and response to isoproterenol was demonstrated in failing ventricular trabeculae, which may suggest that defects in beta-adrenergic responsiveness in the failing human ventricle are accompanied by a loss of responsiveness to ang ii. studies were extended to the syrian cardiomyopathic hamster and its control. a dose-dependent inotropic response occurred in normal hamster ventricular muscle but was significantly diminished in cardiomyopathic muscle. ang ii did not shorten the timing of contraction, and pretreatment with adrenergic-blocking agents did not shift the dose-response curve, indicating that the response was not cyclic amp mediated. this study demonstrates for the first time that ang ii can exert an inotropic effect directly on human cardiac muscle and confirms that there is a direct effect of ang ii on hamster cardiac muscle. the study further suggests, however, that the inotropic response to ang ii in cardiac muscle is heterogeneous and may be diminished by heart failure.
risk for postoperative congestive heart failure. to identify predictors of postoperative congestive heart failure (chf), a high-risk population, mainly hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective general operations, was studied. of the 254 patients, 6 per cent had postoperative chf. among patients with preoperative cardiac disease (that is, previous myocardial infarction, valvular disease or chf), 17 per cent had postoperative chf; in contrast with less than 1 per cent of those without cardiac disease (p less than 0.001). patients with diabetes were also at high risk (12 versus 2 per cent, p less than 0.005), particularly those with cardiac disease. patients who had equal to or greater than 40 millimeters of mercury increases or decreases intraoperatively in mean arterial pressure in relation to preoperative baseline had increased postoperative failure rates (p less than 0.02). of note, postoperative failure rates were highest among patients with less than 500 milliliters per hour of net intake (input and output) (p less than 0.03). risk for postoperative chf was restricted to patients with preoperative symptomatic cardiac disease and was especially high if patients also had diabetes. intraoperative fluctuations in mean arterial pressure increased the probability of postoperative failure, while the intraoperative administration of higher net volumes of fluid was associated with decreased risk.
intraoperative massive suprachoroidal hemorrhage during pars plana vitrectomy. seven eyes (7 patients) developed massive suprachoroidal hemorrhage (msch) during pars plana vitrectomy (ppv) for complicated retinal detachments. the msch developed late in the procedure following ppv, air fluid exchange, endolaser, cryopexy, and scleral buckling in five of seven eyes. in two eyes, mild hemorrhagic choroidal detachments noted intraoperatively progressed to msch within 72 hours postoperatively. diagnosis of msch was confirmed by echography and ct scan. multiple scleral buckling surgeries, high myopia, aphakia, and intraocular inflammation were the main risk factors. placement of a broad posterior scleral buckle with intraoperative hypotony and cryopexy were important precipitating factors. visual results were poor, with six of seven eyes showing no light perception. the mean follow-up time was 12.8 months. once acute msch is recognized intraoperatively, surgical decompression at that time should be avoided as msch itself may tamponade the choroidal bleed. details of prevention and management are discussed.
treatment of human melanoma hepatic metastases in nude mice with human cytotoxic t lymphocytes. we investigated the effects of human melanoma-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes in treating experimental human melanoma hepatic metastases in a nude mouse model of adoptive immunotherapy. hepatic metastases were generated by intrasplenic injection of 1.5 x 10(6) human melanoma cells. three days after injection, animals received salt solution and interleukin 2 or interleukin 2 and cytotoxic t lymphocytes. twenty-four of 25 control animals had developed multiple tumor nodules in the liver; 11 of 13 animals receiving only interleukin 2 also had significant tumor burdens. in striking contrast, 17 of 18 animals receiving cytotoxic t lymphocytes and interleukin 2 had no gross or histologic evidence of tumors. the remaining animal had a 2-mm nodule. human tumor-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes are effective in vivo in a model of adoptive immunotherapy and may prove useful in adoptive immunotherapy of humans with metastatic melanoma.
spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer. fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to hope hospital, none being judged to be in a terminal condition. one patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief. there were three failures. twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation. of these, 20 had major recovery of neurological function. patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had 'prophylactic' decompression at the time of stabilisation; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression. the results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation. postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible, and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy, as indicated.
herpes simplex virus type 2 meningitis without genital lesions: an immunoblot study. two sexually active female patients presented with acute meningitis. the csf abnormalities were severe and persistent. in spite of the absence of genital lesions, serological studies revealed a primary infection by herpes simplex virus type 2. an immunoblot study revealed intrathecal synthesis of anti-herpes antibodies early in the course of the disease.
effects of inflammation and fibrosis on pulmonary function in diffuse lung fibrosis. to investigate the relation between lung function and inflammation and fibrosis in patients with diffuse lung fibrosis, a study was made of untreated patients without appreciable airway obstruction (14 patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis and seven with pneumoconiosis). quantitative assessment of inflammatory infiltration and fibrosis was carried out on open lung biopsy specimens and compared with lung volumes, carbon monoxide transfer factor (tlco), tlco corrected for alveolar volume (tlco/va), and arterial blood gases at rest and during exercise. the degree of fibrosis and the degree of cellular infiltration were positively correlated. lung volumes and tlco were correlated with the grades of fibrosis and cellular infiltration of alveoli; arterial blood gases during exercise tended to correlate with both fibrosis and infiltration (p less than 0.06). in contrast, morphological data were not correlated with gas exchange at rest or with tlco/va. it is concluded that, in untreated patients with diffuse lung fibrosis, lung volumes, tlco, and arterial blood gases during exercise reflect the lung lesions, and that the pulmonary function tests used cannot discriminate between fibrosis and infiltration of the lung by inflammatory cells.
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in nonulcer dyspepsia. importance of stratification according to age helicobacter pylori (formerly campylobacter pylori) is causally related to active antral gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal and gastric ulcers. however, the relationship of h pylori to nonulcer dyspepsia is less clear. we determined the presence of h pylori in unselected patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy, and we found a prevalence of 37% in 110 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia that was similar to previous data. patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who had h pylori were found to be significantly older than patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who did not have h pylori. in addition, when stratified according to age, we detected an increased prevalence of h pylori in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia with increasing age, similar to that reported for asymptomatic control populations. this finding casts doubt as to the causal role of h pylori for most patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and stresses the importance of considering epidemiologic factors, such as age, when evaluating the role of h pylori in specific disease states.
the use of cognitive behavior therapy with a normalizing rationale in schizophrenia. preliminary report. sixty-four consecutively referred patients with schizophrenia were treated with cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy as an adjunct to standard treatment. a destigmatizing rationale to explain symptom emergence was devised and supplemented these techniques. they proved safe to use and appeared acceptable to patients and their relatives. members of the group are being maintained on low levels of or no medication and have required minimal hospitalization. the techniques used are described in detail.
susceptibility to effects of uvb radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity as a risk factor for skin cancer in humans. normal, healthy human volunteers and patients with proved history of non-melanoma skin cancer have been tested for their capacity to develop contact hypersensitivity to dinitrochlorobenzene (dncb) following exposure of buttock skin to acute, low-dose ultraviolet b (uvb) radiation. using a radiation protocol that achieves virtually complete depletion of normal-appearing langerhans cells from irradiated skin, it was learned that approximately 60% of healthy volunteers developed vigorous contact hypersensitivity (ch) when 2000 micrograms dncb was painted on the irradiated site. these individuals were designated uvb-resistant, and were distinguished from other individuals, designated uvb-susceptible, who failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following an identical treatment protocol. it was then discovered that virtually all (92%) skin cancer patients exposed to uvb and dncb failed to develop ch, i.e., were uvb-susceptible. in subsequent experiments, epicutaneous application of 2000 micrograms dncb to unirradiated skin of uvb-susceptible individuals revealed a further distinction between normal persons and skin cancer patients. approximately 45% of the latter (and none of the former) remained unresponsive (failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following this second attempt at sensitization), implying that they had been rendered immunologically tolerant. these tolerant individuals responded normally to the unrelated hapten, diphencyprone. we conclude that human beings resemble inbred strains of laboratory mice in that some individuals are uvb-susceptible, whereas others are uvb-resistant. because the incidence of uvb-susceptibility was significantly higher in skin cancer patients, and as specific unresponsiveness could be demonstrated only in these patients, we propose that uvb-susceptibility, as we define it in this hapten system, may be a risk factor for the development of skin cancer.
mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst from a patient with muir-torre syndrome. mucous cell proliferation in a periapical radicular cyst from a patient with a family history of colonic malignancies and multiple sebaceous neoplasms of the skin, so-called muir-torre syndrome, is reported. such goblet cell hyperplasia has not been previously reported to be associated with any known syndrome. we believe the finding of mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst may not simply be coincidental, but should raise suspicion of paraneoplastic potential and warrant further evaluation for possible occult neoplastic disease.
comparative roles of intraoperative epicardial and early postoperative transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of surgical repair of congenital heart defects in 94 consecutive patients undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects the results of intraoperative (after cardiopulmonary bypass) epicardial two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging were compared with those of sequential transthoracic echocardiography performed within 24 h of surgery and again before hospital discharge to define the precise role of intraoperative imaging. in 6 of 7 patients with a residual defect requiring immediate surgical revision, intraoperative imaging correctly identified the defect; spectral doppler imaging underestimated or did not identify a residual outflow tract gradient in 17 patients. left atrioventricular (av) valve regurgitation after repair of complete av septal defect was underestimated in three patients. although intraoperative documentation of good ventricular function was usually associated with a good outcome, in three patients poor systemic ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass was not associated with early mortality. a minor degree of shunting around the patch was a common finding on epicardial and early postoperative imaging and persisted at the time of hospital discharge in 17 of 46 patients who had undergone patch closure of a ventricular septal defect as part of the surgical procedure. additional trabecular septal defects were missed on color flow imaging after cardiopulmonary bypass in three patients, one of whom required subsequent reoperation. although intraoperative two-dimensional and color flow imaging permitted the recognition of the majority of residual defects requiring immediate revision, residual outflow obstruction or av valve regurgitation was usually underestimated.
etoposide in leukemia. etoposide (vp16-213, nsc 141540) induces a complete response (cr) in 15% to 25% of previously treated patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) when used as a single agent. etoposide has been used successfully in combination with cytarabine, daunorubicin, and amsacrine for salvage and consolidation therapies. previously untreated anll patients 15 to 70 years of age were randomly assigned to cytarabine (100 mg/m2) on days 1 to 7 plus daunorubicin (50 mg/m2) on days 1 to 3 (7-3) or to the same drugs plus etoposide (75 mg/m2) on days 1 to 7 (7-3-7). patients achieving a cr received two consolidation courses (5-2, attenuated 7-3 or 5-2-5). among 264 eligible patients, there was a 56% cr rate with 7-3 therapy and a 59% cr rate with 7-3-7 therapy. remission duration was significantly improved with 7-3-7 (median, 12 months with 7-3 and 18 months with 7-3-7; p = 0.01), but survival was not. subset analysis in patients younger than 55 years of age revealed prolonged remission (median, 12 months with 7-3 and 27 months with 7-3-7; p = 0.01) and survival (median, 9 months with 7-3 and 17 months with 7-3-7; p = 0.04) with the 7-3-7 regimen. hematologic toxicity was similar for both regimens during induction, but significantly more severe for 7-3-7 during consolidation therapy. etoposide is active in anll and prolongs remission when used in induction therapy.
recovery from vegetative state of six months' duration associated with sinemet (levodopa/carbidopa). certain pharmacologic interventions may improve outcome for brain injury in animals and humans. medications affecting the dopaminergic pathway appear to be important. we present the case of a 24-year-old man with traumatic brain injury who remained unresponsive to commands and unchanged for six months despite periodic aggressive therapy. within days of beginning sinemet (levodopa/carbidopa), the patient became conversant and responsive. the reported low likelihood of spontaneous recovery of cognition in patients who are vegetative for six months suggests that sinemet was responsible for this patient's recovery. in this case, the relatively small risk of side effects from sinemet was greatly outweighed by the change in functional outcome.
treatment of moderate-to-severe hypothermia in an urban setting. study objectives: to study the treatment of moderate-to-severe hypothermia using a combination of core rewarming techniques. design: a prospective study. setting: the emergency department of an urban, community hospital. type of patients: sixteen patients who presented with accidental hypothermia with a core temperature of less than 32 c. interventions: all patients were treated with warmed iv fluids either through central or peripheral iv lines and heated aerosol masks. measurements and main results: the patients had a mean rewarming rate of 1.16 c/hr; all survived. the majority were chronic alcoholic patients who presented with multiple medical conditions that required hospitalization. conclusion: all patients recovered with this method of core rewarming.
comprehensive management of acute necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess. achieving reduced mortality rates in patients with necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess is possible by employing a comprehensive management plan. components of the plan include (1) rapid evaluation and assessment of the degree of physiologic and anatomic derangement, the latter by the prompt use of vascular enhanced computed tomographic scan; (2) adequate fluid resuscitation determined by early institution of advanced hemodynamic monitoring; (3) attempts to identify and document septic foci via computed tomography-guided percutaneous aspiration; and (4) aggressive surgical debridement. close adherence to these policies allowed us to keep mortality in this seriously ill group of patients to 14%. most deaths occurred in patients who were referred to this service late in the course of their disease. the acute physiology and chronic health enquiry (apache) ii severity of illness index applied at the time of admission proved an accurate predictor of mortality. a score of 25 or greater was highly predictive of death, and a lesser score, of survival.
the role of endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (erp) in blunt abdominal trauma. the diagnosis of pancreatic injury is often difficult because it lies retroperitoneally in a protected area. delayed diagnosis and treatment of blunt pancreatic trauma can result in significant morbidity and mortality. endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (erp) is infrequently used in the diagnosis of pancreatic injury. we reviewed our experience with the use of erp in patients with blunt pancreatic injury. two stable patients with traumatic pancreatitis underwent erp shortly after injury. ct scans revealed a transverse fracture of the distal pancrease in one and fluid accumulation in the other around the pancreas extending to the right kidney and left hepatic lobe. the absence of ductal disruption on erp allowed nonoperative management of the pancreatitis. resolution was documented by the absence of symptoms on regular oral intake, normal serum amylase levels, and normal follow-up ct scans. a third patient with persistent fistulae three months postinjury underwent preoperative erp revealing ductal obstruction. this facilitated the planning of a distal pancreatectomy and subsequently the fistulae healed. a fourth patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy on the basis of clinical and ct scan findings that could have been circumvented with preoperative erp. erp in selected patients allows nonoperative treatment in the absence of ductal injury or earlier operative treatment of ductal injury. it also aids the treatment of late complications by delineating ductal anatomy.
prolonged intermittent clamping of the portal triad during hepatectomy. from 112 consecutive hepatectomies for malignant tumours performed with intermittent portal triad clamping, we have retrospectively selected the 20 cases in which clamping exceeded 90 min. intermittent portal clamping of prolonged duration was used because of abnormal liver texture in 13 cases (mainly patients who had received intra-arterial chemotherapy) and/or because of technically difficult hepatectomy. the mean(s.d.) duration of intermittent portal clamping was 109(18) min and in two cases it exceeded 140 min (148 and 150 min). there was no postoperative mortality and the rate of postoperative morbidity was 35 per cent. postoperative changes in biochemical liver tests were not major and transient hepatic failure occurred in only one patient following subtotal resection of the liver. we conclude that intermittent portal clamping is a useful manoeuvre in partial hepatectomy when resection is difficult or prolonged, or when the liver parenchyma is abnormal. such clamping may be used for longer than 120 min without major complications.
effect of somatostatin analogue (octreotide) on blood flow to endocrine tumors metastatic to the liver: angiographic evaluation. the effect of an octapeptide analogue of somatostatin, octreotide, on tumor blood flow was evaluated with angiography in eight patients with hepatic endocrine tumors; one patient had primary intrahepatic gastrinoma, two patients had hepatic metastases from gastrinomas, two patients had vipomas (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-secreting tumor), and three patients had carcinoid tumors. octreotide caused a marked decrease in tumor blood flow in two patients with gastrinomas and two with vipomas. one patient could not be evaluated due to the lack of a tumor blush on a control angiogram. in patients with carcinoid tumors, octreotide caused a slight reduction in blood flow through the tumors in two patients, while there was no change in one patient. octreotide markedly decreased gastrin and gastric acid secretion in two of three patients with gastrinomas, lowered vip and stopped the diarrhea in patients with vipomas, and controlled symptoms in two of three patients with carcinoid tumors. the vasoactive effect of octreotide on hepatic endocrine tumors may be a direct action on tumor blood supply or secondary to inhibition of the endocrine tumor cell secretion and consequent decreased blood flow.
follow-up recatheterization after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry investigators. the results of recatheterization were assessed in a select group of 95 patients enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry to determine whether any procedural or patient-related variables at baseline predicted either initial immediate or follow-up (6.2 +/- 3.3 months) results. at the follow-up catheterization, 39 (41%) of the patients were in improved condition and 56 patients (59%) had recurrence of symptoms, allowing for analysis of the effect of the procedure in two symptomatic patient subsets. in the total group the aortic valve area increased initially from 0.56 +/- 0.16 to 0.87 +/- 0.27 cm2 but partial return to the baseline valve area was evident at follow-up (0.63 +/- 0.25 cm2). similarly, the mean aortic gradient initially decreased from 72 +/- 30 to 35 +/- 16 mm hg but then increased to 55 +/- 25 mm hg at follow-up. neither the initial nor the late hemodynamic results appeared affected by any definable procedural variable at the time of valvuloplasty, including the maximal diameter of balloons, number of balloons simultaneously used, mean inflation time or total number of inflations. such technical concerns also did not seem to affect short- or long-term outcome. similarly, no baseline hemodynamic variable clearly separated those who became increasingly symptomatic from those whose condition was improved at the 6 month interval. at recatheterization, a reduction in the aortic valve area toward baseline was observed in 24 (62%) of the 39 improved patients and in 45 (80%) of the 56 who were symptomatic.
preoperative measurement of pulmonary vascular resistance in complete transposition of the great arteries. transposition of the great arteries is frequently complicated by the early onset of pulmonary vascular disease. it is difficult to measure pulmonary blood flow by the fick principle because the pulmonary arteriovenous oxygen content difference is small and bronchial blood flow is increased in this condition. in eight patients (mean age 7.7 years, range 3 months to 29 years) with transposition of the great arteries mass spectrometry was used to measure oxygen uptake and predict pulmonary end capillary blood oxygen content. the effects of the bronchial circulation were studied by computer modelling. there was close agreement between pulmonary end capillary and pulmonary vein blood oxygen contents but the resultant percentage difference in arteriovenous content difference was significant (mean (se of difference)) (14.5(3.8)%). the effect of the bronchial circulation was to give spuriously high estimates of pulmonary blood flow. the error was greatest when oxygen consumption was low and aortic blood was very desaturated.
photochemotherapy improves chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease. we have used oral psoralen photochemotherapy (puva) to treat four patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease of the skin, oral mucosa, and liver, who had responded only partially to long-term immunosuppressive therapy (prednisolone, cyclosporine, azathioprine). puva therapy was delivered to the entire skin but not to the oral mucosa, and immunosuppressive therapy was continued in all patients. two patients' skin lesions improved considerably; the oral lesions healed and did not recur in one. immunosuppressive therapy could be reduced in these two patients. one patient with sicca signs did not improve. one patient had to interrupt puva therapy because of side effects attributed to 8-methoxypsoralen (nausea and vomiting). no flare of acute cutaneous graft-versus-host disease was noted during puva therapy. chronic graft-versus-host disease of the liver did not improve in any patient.
the influence of dialysate sodium and variable ultrafiltration on fluid balance during hemodialysis. an important factor in the development of hypotension during hemodialysis (hd) is a decrease in blood volume, due to ultrafiltration (uf) and an insufficient refill of the intravascular compartment. this insufficient refill might be caused by a transcellular fluid shift from the extracellular to the intracellular compartment. we studied the influence of dialysate sodium concentration and uf rate on the refill rate, blood volume, intracellular (icv) and extracellular fluid volume (ecv). three different hd strategies were studied in 15 patients: (a) conventional hd (dialysate sodium 140 mmol/l); (b) hd with a sodium profile (140-148 mmol/l); and (c) hd with a sodium profile and a variable uf rate (high-low uf rate). icv and ecv were measured by non-invasive conductivity measurements, blood volume was calculated from erythrocyte counts before and after treatment. blood volume decrease was most pronounced during conventional hd, due to insufficient refilling without a detectable transcellular fluid shift. the sum of the decrease in icv and evc was less than during (b) and (c). the insufficient refill led to a higher prevalence of hypotension and cramps. the strategies (b) and (c) led to an significant and comparable transcellular fluid shift to the extracellular compartment. thus, the use of a sodium profile led to a better intravascular refill and clinical tolerance of hd. addition of a uf profile did not improve this any further.
recurrent tension headache in adolescents treated with self-help relaxation training and a muscle relaxant drug. forty-eight adolescents suffering from recurrent tension headache participated in a controlled trial conducted in a high school setting. during the first treatment phase self-help relaxation training was compared with a waiting-list group. following this phase a pharmacological regimen consisting of a muscle relaxant (chlormezanone) and placebo was superimposed on relaxation therapy in a double-blind crossover design. each treatment phase encompassed a 5-week period. in addition to the evaluation of headache complaints, psychological distress among students was measured with respect to their experience of somatic complaints, depressive, anxiety and stress symptoms. although self-help relaxation training significantly decreased the severity and annoyance of adolescents' headache besides their somatic complaints, the clinical improvement of headache was modest. the addition of chlormezanone did not help those who were nonresponders to self-help relaxation training. finally, a set of pretreatment variables consisting of baseline headache severity and annoyance, experience of anxiety and daily life stress among adolescents could predict outcome of self-help relaxation therapy.
isoenzymes of aldehyde dehydrogenase in human lymphocytes. the types of isozymes of aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldh) present in human lymphocytes has been investigated using isoelectric focusing of polyacrylamide gels followed by substrate-specific staining. lymphocytes obtained from most individuals were found to contain both types i and ii aldh. this group of 'typical' individuals reported that they did not develop marked facial flushing or rapid heart rate after drinking alcohol nor did they develop an erythema to cutaneously applied ethanol. lymphocytes obtained from 'atypical' individuals who do suffer from alcohol-induced flushing and rapid heart rate and who developed erythema to cutaneous ethanol displayed type ii, but not type i, aldh. lymphocytes thus appear to be an easily accessible and suitable tissue for determining type i aldh phenotype.
gastric antral vascular ectasia ("watermelon stomach"): radiologic findings. radiologic findings in a patient with gastric antral vascular ectasia are described on computed tomographic scans, upper gastrointestinal series, and specimen radiographs. findings include prominent, scalloped antral folds radiating to the pylorus and thickening of the gastric antrum. pathognomonic red vascular folds, likened to stripes on a watermelon, can be seen endoscopically.
the role of prostanoids in the production of acute acalculous cholecystitis by platelet-activating factor. gallbladder tissue from patients with acute acalculous cholecystitis contains increased amounts of prostanoids when compared to normal gallbladder tissue. platelet-activating factor (paf) is a potent stimulus of eicosanoid formation. it has been implicated as a mediator of acute inflammatory processes and systemic responses to shock. in this study the role of paf in acute acalculous cholecystitis was evaluated. anesthetized cats underwent gallbladder perfusion with a physiologic buffer solution containing [14c]polyethylene glycol as a nonabsorbable tracer to quantitate mucosal water absorption. platelet-activating factor was infused into the hepatic artery for 2 hours. control experiments were performed when vehicle alone was infused. experiments also were performed when indomethacin was administered intravenously and when indomethacin and paf were administered. gallbladder mucosal absorption/secretion and perfusate and tissue prostaglandin e (pge) and 6 keto prostaglandin f1 alpha (6-keto pgf1 alpha) levels were evaluated. gallbladder inflammation was evaluated by beta-glucuronidase and myeloperoxidase tissue concentrations and by a histologic scoring system. platelet-activating factor eliminated gallbladder absorption and produced net fluid secretion associated with dose-related increases in perfusate pge concentrations and gallbladder tissue pge and 6 keto pgf1 alpha levels when compared to control values. platelet-activating factor produced significant inflammation in the gallbladder with increases in the histologic score of inflammation and tissue lysosomal enzyme activities. indomethacin significantly decreased the fluid secretion, prostanoid levels, and inflammation produced by paf. the results suggest that paf may induce acute gallbladder inflammation associated with systemic stress through a prostanoid-mediated mechanism.
laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts. one hundred two women with ovarian cysts were managed laparoscopically over a 13-year period. thirteen were treated with laparoscopic inspection followed by laparotomy, 6 with laparoscopic fine needle aspiration followed by laparotomy and 83 with laparoscopic fenestration and biopsy, with or without coagulation or removal of the cyst lining. satisfactory results were noted in patients treated completely with laparoscopy. only 1 of 56 functional, simple or paraovarian cysts recurred during the study period. two of the 18 ovarian endometriomas treated with fenestration and coagulation or removal of the lining recurred, whereas 8 of 9 such lesions recurred when treated with fenestration alone. there were no surgical complications.
acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis in childhood (sweet's syndrome). we report a case of sweet's syndrome in childhood. our patients suffered from repeated fevers, chest infections and had characteristic erythematous plaques. the severity of his illness increased with age and warranted oral steroid treatment. we review 16 cases reported to date in the literature and comment on the management and prognosis of the disease in childhood.
spinal cord compression from a thoracic paraganglioma: case report. a 34-year-old man with a 4-month history of midthoracic back pain sought treatment for a recent onset of lower extremity paresthesia and stiffness. a myelogram and computed tomographic myelogram disclosed an extradural block at the level of the 8th thoracic vertebral body with involvement of the pedicles, lamina, and spinous process. a posterior decompression of the spinal cord with subtotal resection of a highly vascular tumor was performed. the tumor was identified as a paraganglioma. in a second stage, the remainder of the tumor was embolized preoperatively, and gross total excision and sequential stabilization of the spine with a luque rectangle and sublaminar wires were performed. the patient has been symptom free and without signs of a recurrence in the spine for over 13 months. a large abdominal paraganglioma was recently resected from its probable origin from the adventitia of the abdominal aorta.
perioperative monitoring of blood flow in femoroinfragenicular vein grafts with doppler ultrasonography: a preliminary report. a system for monitoring blood flow in femorodistal vein grafts with doppler ultrasonography in the immediate postoperative period has been developed. twenty-three grafts have been monitored for periods of up to 72 hours. seventeen grafts have remained patent at minimum follow-up of 6 months, and six grafts occluded in the immediate postoperative period. successful doppler recordings were obtained in 16 successful and all failed grafts. fast fourier transform analysis of the doppler signals was performed, and pulsatility index and time-averaged mean velocity were derived from the spectral information. successful grafts displayed hyperemic flow with pulsatility index less than 2 and time-averaged mean velocity greater than 10 cm/sec. failed grafts could be classified in two groups: those that occluded less than 24 hours after operation and those that occluded after 24 hours after operation. short-term failure was categorized by highly pulsatile flow, with pulsatility index rising rapidly and time-averaged mean velocity falling correspondingly before actual cessation of flow. delayed failure was less well defined but was suggested by failure to develop, or early deviation from, the hyperemic flow seen in successful grafts. occlusion was heralded by development of the pulsatile pattern seen in the short-term failure group.
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections: mechanisms of death. clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined. the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial. severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths (15.5%). pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children (59.2%). heart failure (8.5%), hypovolemia (4.2%), and nosocomial infection (12.6%) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection. extensive consolidation, squamous metaplasia, and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children. patients with severe disease must receive, in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes, individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care. since these types of care are not available in poor communities, vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease.
orbital rim and malar advancement for unilateral coronal synostosis in the older pediatric age group. the authors describe a technique for lateral orbital rim and malar advancement in patients in the older pediatric age group. the technique makes use of a strip craniotomy containing the supraorbital margin, greater sphenoid wing, and temporal bone, with en bloc inclusion of the lateral orbital rim, zygoma, and malar prominence. the method allows a contoured yet stable construction secured in a tongue-in-groove fashion with plate-and-screw fixation. it creates a symmetrical reconstruction of both frontal and lateral orbital aspects in the untreated or inadequately treated older plagiocephalic child with orbital dystopia. the accompanying malar recession is likewise corrected.
the pathology of heart allograft rejection. the pathologist plays an important role in the care of cardiac transplant recipients. day-to-day management of immunosuppression is largely dependent on the diagnosis and grading of acute rejection. while noninvasive methods have been tried experimentally, the endomyocardial biopsy remains the gold standard in monitoring the rejection status of the heart allograft. the diagnosis of rejection, however, is complicated by a variety of other histologic findings, which may be procedural or processing related, due to sampling, or specifically related to transplantation. failed allografts, whether from autopsy or explantation, provide the opportunity to study short- and long-term changes in the transplanted heart. allograft arteriopathy, or graft atherosclerosis, is the major limiting factor in long-term recipient survival. while the morphological features of graft arteriopathy have been well described, the mechanism and factors contributing to its development remain unclear.
subcutaneous lisuride infusion in parkinson's disease. response to chronic administration in 34 patients. thirty-eight parkinsonian patients with motor fluctuations and dyskinesias on chronic levodopa therapy were treated with subcutaneous lisuride infusion (sli). thirty-six were discharged from hospital on combined treatment with 24 h lisuride infusion (111.3 +/- 29.5 micrograms/h) and oral levodopa plus a decarboxylase inhibitor (729.6 +/- 452 mg/day); all obtained a marked initial improvement in mobility (mean reduction 'off' hours 87.5%); 34 were followed for a mean of 20.85 (range 6-45) months. most patients continued to show improvement with respect to baseline assessment during chronic treatment but 23 developed dyskinesias, 'off' periods or both, which were difficult to control by changing the levodopa schedule, lisuride dose or both. in only 5 patients was lisuride treatment stopped because of inefficacy. the high incidence of psychiatric side-effects (18/38) was the major limiting factor for continuing lisuride infusion in this population of severe parkinsonian patients. many complained about the inconvenience of the pump's technical requirements for long-term utilization, but only 4 patients abandoned sli for this reason. these results indicate that motor function may be substantially improved in severe parkinsonian patients treated with sli but increased dyskinesia or psychiatric adverse effects limited the long-term usefulness of this approach. it is suggested that continuous dopaminergic stimulation may be a particularly useful therapeutic strategy when applied in earlier stages of the disease.
new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. their role in the management of hypertension. the introduction of orally active angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors has revolutionized the treatment of hypertensive disorders and provided an effective alternative for the management of congestive heart failure (chf). by interfering with the formation of angiotensin ii, the active agent of the renin system, ace inhibitors block the system's vasoconstrictive and sodium-retaining effects, with a consequent reduction in systemic blood pressure. the net effect is improved blood flow and reduced cardiac work. thus, ace inhibitors are likely to improve cardiac work capacity and quality of life. their mechanism of action differs markedly from that of traditional antihypertensive agents which lower blood pressure while reducing cardiac output and blood flow. since the primary action of ace inhibitors is to block the renin system, a dramatic response to monotherapy suggests a large renin factor while the lack of a response suggests a low-renin state more amenable to treatment with a diuretic or calcium antagonist. because of their many attributes, ace inhibitors are increasingly used as first-line therapy for the treatment of hypertension or chf. the prototype orally active ace inhibitor, captopril, is a sulfhydryl compound with a good safety profile at the recommended dosages but reported toxicity at higher dosages. second-generation ace inhibitors (eg, enalapril and quinapril) are more potent sulfhydryl-free esters with a greater affinity for the converting enzyme. these newer agents are pro-drugs requiring ester hydrolysis to form the active free acid compound.
in vitro characterization of a biologically active molecular clone of hiv-2nih-z containing a nef deletion and expressing a full-length transmembrane protein. we have previously described the cloning and sequencing of a novel stain of human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (hiv-2) called hiv-2nih-z. a plasmid clone, phiv2z, containing the full-length provirus has now been constructed, and virus particles have been obtained upon transfection into cos-1 and h-9 cells. these particles can infect a number of t-cell lines and exert a cytopathic effect on fresh human and macaque peripheral blood lymphocytes. the cloned virus is biologically and morphologically indistinguishable from its parental uncloned strain as shown by restriction enzyme analysis, electron microscopy, and kinetics of infection. however, as shown by radioimmunoprecipitation assays, the cloned virus-infected cells express a full-length gp41 protein as predicted by the nucleotide sequence, whereas the wild-type parental strain expresses a truncated gp33 protein. both the parental strain and the cloned virus possess a deletion encompassing the end of the nef gene within the u3 region which apparently does not affect their in vitro cytopathic and replicative capacities.
barotrauma associated with high-frequency jet ventilation for hypoxic salvage. most reports describe reduction in proximal airway pressures with high-frequency jet ventilation. this led us to speculate that high-frequency jet ventilation might reduce barotrauma by providing alveolar ventilation at lower airway pressures. we describe a group of patients in whom a high incidence of barotrauma was observed after institution of high-frequency jet ventilation despite reduction in measured airway pressures. fifteen hypoxic patients who could not be treated with conventional ventilation and who had no roentgenographic evidence of barotrauma were entered into the study. airway pressures were measured during conventional ventilation and at 2 and 24 hours after high-frequency jet ventilation. despite significant reduction in peak inspiratory and mean airway pressures, pneumothorax developed in seven of the 15 patients, an average of 21 hours after initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation. five patients had bilateral pneumothorax and three developed tension pneumothorax. despite reductions in proximal airway pressures, barotrauma is a significant potential complication of high-frequency jet ventilation in patients with noncompliant lungs. we currently place bilateral prophylactic thoracostomy tubes in patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome prior to initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation.
evidence for motor neuropathy and reduced filling of the rectum in chronic intractable constipation. subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis is now frequently offered to patients with slow transit constipation who have severe symptoms and no response to more conventional medical treatment. if this operation is to be successful, the underlying problem should be delay in the progress of contents through the colon but no mechanical or functional obstruction in the small bowel or rectum. we have used a recently described technique of prolonged ambulant manometry and electromyography to investigate anorectal function in these patients. pressure data were collected using a 2 mm diameter intrarectal probe carrying microtransducers, and external anal sphincter activity was assessed by a pair of silver-silver chloride surface electrodes. fourteen control subjects and eight patients with colonic inertia were studied. sampling reflexes, indicative of rectal filling, occurred at mean (sem) rates of 7.4 (2.0)/hour in controls but were significantly reduced in patients (2.4 (0.3)/hour (p less than 0.01]. recurrent rectal motor complexes were seen to occur in both groups at intervals of 76 (1.8) minutes in controls and 64.9 (7.2) minutes in patients (p less than 0.1), and with amplitudes of 42.4 (2.1) mmhg and 9.2 (0.7) mmhg (p less than 0.001), respectively. external sphincter electromyographic spike activity did not differ between groups. our results support the concept of reduced transit of faeces to the rectum from the colon over a 24 hour period in slow transit constipation and suggest that a motor neuropathy may also be present in the rectum.
autonomic dysfunction and guillain-barre syndrome. the use of esmolol in its management. a 17-year-old girl with guillain-barre syndrome and autonomic dysfunction was treated successfully with esmolol. esmolol may be an appropriate drug for the rapid assessment and control of tachyarrhythmias in critically ill patients.
anal submucosal injection: a new route for drug administration. vi. chronic prostatitis: a new modality of treatment with report of eleven cases. the anal submucosal route was used for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis in 11 patients. prior to presentation, the patients had received different antimicrobial agents; the symptoms disappeared only to recur whenever the drug was discontinued. after repeated failure, the patients were treated with gentamicin to which the organisms were sensitive, via the anal submucosal route. a daily injection was given for ten days on an outpatient basis. the technique of injection is described. the patients were followed up clinically and by segmented cultures for three years. no anorectal complications were encountered as had been demonstrated experimentally. the symptoms of chronic prostatitis disappeared, and culture was negative by the end of treatment and for two to three years thereafter in all patients. it appears that the antimicrobial agent, via anal route, reaches the prostatic tissues at a higher concentration than that of the serum. the route adopted by the drug to reach the prostate from the anal submucosa is presented.
changes in left ventricular volume, mass, and function during the development and regression of supraventricular tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy. disparity between recovery of systolic versus diastolic function. chronic supraventricular tachycardia causes a dilated cardiomyopathy in man. terminating this tachycardia appears to result in symptomatic improvement; however, its effects on left ventricular (lv) volume, mass, and function have not been fully examined. accordingly, hemodynamic studies using simultaneous echocardiography and catheterization were performed in three groups of pigs: 1) those subjected to rapid left atrial pacing (240 beats/min) for 3 weeks (svt, n = 8), 2) those subjected to supraventricular tachycardia for 3 weeks followed by termination of pacing and a 4-week recovery period (psvt, n = 9), and 3) sham-operated controls (ctr, n = 10). systolic pump function was assessed using fractional shortening (fs), peak ejection rate [peak (-)dd/dt], and maximum rate of pressure development [peak (+)dp/dt]. diastolic function was assessed using the time constant of isovolumic pressure decline (tau), peak early diastolic filling rate [peak (+)dd/dt], the chamber stiffness constant (kc), and the myocardial stiffness constant (km). supraventricular tachycardia caused lv dilation (end-diastolic dimension [edd] increased from 3.5 +/- 0.4 cm in ctr to 4.9 +/- 0.5 cm in svt, p less than 0.05) but no change in lv mass (lv weight-to-body weight ratio [lv/bw]) was 2.58 +/- 0.3 g/kg in ctr and 2.66 +/- 0.4 g/kg in svt), all indexes of systolic function became abnormal (fs fell from 30 +/- 4% in ctr to 13 +/- 5% in svt, p less than 0.05), and the indexes of relaxation and filling were slowed (tau increased from 36 +/- 3 msec in ctr to 51 +/- 13 msec in svt, p less than 0.05). there were no significant changes in kc or km. after terminating the supraventricular tachycardia, lv volume fell but remained greater than that in ctr (edd was 4.2 +/- 0.4 cm in psvt, p less than 0.05 versus ctr) and substantial lv hypertrophy developed (lv/bw was 3.48 +/- 0.5 g/kg in psvt, p less than 0.05 versus ctr). systolic function returned to normal (fs was 31 +/- 5% in psvt) but diastolic function remained abnormal. in psvt, tau remained prolonged (49 +/- 12 msec, p less than 0.05 versus ctr), kc increased from 3.7 +/- 1.0 in ctr to 7.4 +/- 1.2 (p less than 0.05), and km increased from 4.4 +/- 1.5 in ctr to 13.9 +/- 9.7 (p less than 0.05). thus, the improvement in systolic function that occurs after the termination of supraventricular tachycardia is associated with the development of lv hypertrophy and persistent diastolic dysfunction.
coronary artery disease in the octogenarian: angiographic spectrum and suitability for revascularization. the angiographic findings of 84 consecutive octogenarians presenting with symptoms of coronary artery disease (cad) were examined to determine the extent of cad as well as suitability for both coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). the frequency of 0-, 1-, 2-, and 3-vessel and left main cad was 7, 14, 21, 57 and 13%, respectively. based on angiographic criteria, 69 of 78 patients (88%) with significant cad had suitable coronary anatomy for cabg. only 24 patients (31%) had coronary anatomy amenable to ptca. cabg was performed in 19 patients with an operative mortality of 16% and major complication rate of 37%. ptca was performed in 12 patients with a clinical success rate of 83%, mortality of 8% and major complication rate of 8%. it is concluded that in octogenarians with cad, cardiac catheterization will often reveal coronary anatomy that is suitable for cabg but less suitable for ptca. the morbidity and mortality associated with these interventions are high.
myocardial uptake of indium-111-labeled antimyosin in acute subendocardial infarction: clinical, histochemical, and autoradiographic correlation of myocardial necrosis. indium-111-labeled antimyosin has been utilized in the diagnosis and localization of acute transmural myocardial infarction. the present report describes a patient who presented with a massive subendocardial infarction. two days after the injection of antimyosin, the patient's clinical status markedly deteriorated and he expired. postmortem examination demonstrated severe three-vessel coronary artery disease with extensive myocyte death in the endocardium. autoradiography and histochemical staining of the prosected heart demonstrated high correlation for myocardial necrosis and corresponded to clinical evidence for diffuse subendocardial infarction.
use of the variable-length intraluminal sutureless graft. from august 1987 to may 1988 we treated 4 patients with acute ascending aortic dissections with a variable-length intraluminal aortic prosthesis. this operation uses profound hypothermic circulatory arrest and represents a refinement of existing techniques. there was no mortality, and morbidity was minimal. modifications of this technique can be used in performing proximal aortic root reconstruction with a composite valved conduit. the use of a variable-length intraluminal prosthesis and hypothermic circulatory arrest is illustrated. this is a safe and useful technique in select cases of acute ascending aortic dissection.
treatment of malignant pleural effusions with doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing poly(l-lactic acid) microspheres. for the treatment of malignant pleural effusions, we prepared doxorubicin hydrochloride (adriamycin)-containing poly(l-lactic acid) microspheres (adr-ms). in vitro, 50 percent and 100 percent release times of adr from adr-ms were 6.3 and 20 days, respectively. after intrapleural administration of adr-ms for seven patients at an adr dose of 40 mg, adr was detected in the effusions for more than two weeks; however, adr concentrations in serum were very small, consistent with minimal transpleural absorption of adr. these results indicated the slow release of adr into the pleural cavity. furthermore, the amount of drained adr was less than a few percent of the administered dose. in some cases, malignant cells in the effusion disappeared after the treatment. no complications related to the procedure occurred, and the patients developed no systemic symptoms. one patient died after four months, and the other six patients are alive after 21 to 31 months without reaccumulation of the effusion. the local administration of adr-ms produces a localized high and systemic low concentration of adr, which could potentially improve the patient's quality of life.
effects of tamoxifen and somatostatin analogue on growth of human medullary, follicular, and papillary thyroid carcinoma cell lines: tissue culture and nude mouse xenograft studies. the knowledge that (1) the normal thyroid contains somatostatin, (2) polypeptide growth factors influence thyroid cell function, and (3) thyroid cells contain steroid hormone receptors prompted us to add somatostatin analogue no. 201-995 (sms) (5 ng/ml) and/or tamoxifen citrate (tam) (5 mumol/l) to 7-day monolayer cultures (50,000 cells/well) of three separate human thyroid carcinoma cell lines: dr081 (medullary), wr082 (follicular), and npa'87 (papillary). results, tabulated as cell numbers/well (x10(5) on day 7, revealed that tam inhibited growth of medullary and follicular cells and that tam plus sms inhibited growth of papillary cells. in vivo studies of subcutaneous tumor cell xenografts in nude mice have documented that tam (5 mg subcutaneous pellet) significantly inhibits the growth of medullary implants. flow cytometric dna studies of medullary cell cultures demonstrated a reduced g2 + m phase with tam treatment. for papillary cell implants, tam plus sms (5 micrograms subcutaneously, twice daily) did not suppress tumor growth. all three cell lines were negative for estrogen receptor; addition of estradiol (5 ng/ml) to medullary cell cultures neither stimulated replication nor reversed the inhibitory effects of tam in vitro. we conclude that (1) tam slowed the growth of a cell line of human medullary carcinoma, both in vitro and in vivo; (2) this effect was not reversed by estradiol; (3) tam plus sms inhibited replication of a papillary carcinoma cell line in vitro, but not in vivo; and (4) tam alone and tam plus sms inhibited replication of cultures of a human follicular thyroid carcinoma cell line. tam and sms may be useful in treatment of some human thyroid carcinomas.
insulin resistance and blood pressure in young black men. insulin resistance, independent of obesity or non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, has been demonstrated to be associated with high blood pressure. to determine if insulin resistance could be an antecedent to hypertension in a high-risk population, we studied normotensive (112 +/- 12/70 +/- 10 mm hg) and borderline hypertensive (135 +/- 8/85 +/- 5 mm hg) lean young black men (22-26 years old) with the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique. all subjects had clinically normal oral glucose tolerance. body mass index and percent adipose mass were the same in both groups. fasting plasma insulin concentration was significantly higher in the borderline hypertensive group (p less than 0.01). insulin-directed exogenous glucose metabolism at the same degree of steady-state hyperinsulinemia was significantly lower in the borderline hypertensive group (5.98 +/- 2.22 versus 8.22 +/- 1.96 mg/kg/min; p less than 0.01). for the total population, a significant inverse correlation existed between the glucose infusion rate and systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.01). these data indicate that there is a relation between insulin-mediated glucose uptake and blood pressure. furthermore, in this high-risk population insulin resistance may precede the onset of established essential hypertension.
immunosuppressive acidic protein in malignant diseases. clinical relevance? the immunosuppressive acidic protein (iap) has been described as a tumor associated marker in some solid tumors and hematologic diseases. to define the clinical relevance the authors determined the serum iap levels in 194 patients with malignancies before initiation of therapy, 14 patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (itp), 28 patients with bacterial pneumonia, and 23 healthy volunteers. immunosuppressive acidic protein was measured by radial immunodiffusion. the mean value of our controls was 405 +/- 48 micrograms/ml. this is consistent with published data. the mean values for patients with malignancies varied from 554 micrograms/ml to 698 micrograms/ml. these are only marginally higher than those observed for the controls. in contrast patients with bacterial pneumonia demonstrated significantly elevated values (1038 +/- 261 micrograms/ml). the authors conclude that iap cannot be used as a diagnostic marker for the malignant diseases examined in this study.
artificial urinary sphincters around intestinal segments--are they safe? artificial urinary sphincters (aus) were implanted around intestinal segments to achieve urinary continence in 8 patients and faecal continence in 1. in 6 patients the cuff was placed around the lower end of the cystoplasty following bladder neck (5) or urethral (1) erosion. four are completely dry, 1 on self-intermittent catheterisation (sic). one has mild stress incontinence. in 1 patient the cuff eroded at 8 months. two patients had cuffs implanted parastomally to create continent diversion. one is satisfactory on sic and the other had her aus explanted because of life-threatening metabolic acidosis. the rectal cuff was explanted because of faecal impaction above the cuff. as an absolute last resort, placing an aus round a cystoplasty appears little more hazardous than round bladder neck. the use of the aus for continent diversion has not been pursued because of reliable techniques of non-prosthetic continent diversion. the current model of the aus is unsuitable for the treatment of faecal incontinence.
femorofemoral bypass: a profile of graft failure. we have reviewed our experience with 71 patients who had a femorofemoral bypass for unilateral iliac artery occlusion or stenosis. we analyzed morbidity, mortality, initial relief of symptoms, early patency, and long-term primary and secondary patency; and we attempted to identify the cause of graft failure. the overall hospital mortality after operative repair was 4%. one-year survival was 84% and 2-year survival was 81%. early patency was 98.5% at 1 month, late patency was 91% at 1 year and 82% at 5 years. the major cause of graft failure was inadequate run-off and outflow disease progression.
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma. the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient, and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum. the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues, the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238, and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99. this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously, and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank, embl, or nbrf databases, including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein (cdr34) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody. unexpectedly, the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue, the intestine.
determination of ventricular fluid outflow resistance in patients with ventriculomegaly. resorption of the ventricular fluid was studied by measuring ventricular fluid outflow resistance during steady state 1.5 and 5.0 ml/min infusions in 26 patients with substantial enlargement of the supratentorial ventricular system. this test may avoid unnecessary use of shunts, but a shunt could be introduced during the same procedure.
the management of primary fallopian tube carcinoma. the outcome of 30 patients with primary fallopian tube carcinoma is described. treatment varied over the 22 year period of accrual and included combinations of surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. there was an apparent increase in stage at treatment with time which was probably related to more precise staging at laparotomy and the greater use of computerized tomography. the median survival for all patients was 28 months and the 5-year survival was 18%. ten patients received postoperative chemotherapy for residual disease with an overall response rate of 80% and median progression-free and overall survival times of 14 and 21 months respectively. the pattern of relapse was similar to that seen in ovarian carcinoma, with all but one patient having the pelvis or abdomen as the main site of recurrence. primary fallopian tube carcinoma has a response to treatment and a tumour biology similar to that of ovarian carcinoma. it is recommended that the management of this uncommon malignancy should continue to be along the lines of ovarian carcinoma, with initial treatment by cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy for residual disease.
hemopump support for the failing heart. under fluoroscopy, the hemopump is passed through the aortic valve into the left ventricle through a gortex (wf gore, denver, co) chimney sewn to a surgically exposed femoral artery. the system aspirates the left ventricular blood and actively pumps it into the aorta. five patients (four men, one woman), aged 47-71 years (mean, 62 years), were candidates for hemopump support because of refractory cardiogenic shock. three were recovering from repeated coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery, and two required postoperative emergency cabg for failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). one patient died during insertion, and four had the hemo-pump successfully placed. all patients had low cardiac out-put and had intraaortic balloons in place. average insertion time took 20 min, with maintenance on the hemopump for an average of 13 hr. one patient was maintained on the hemopump for 12 hr, but because of continued deterioration, was placed on a total artificial heart (harvik 7-70). patients 3 (hemopump inserted transthoracically) and 4 had the hemopump discontinued because of brain death, and the fifth survived. this patient is alive and working 1 yr later. the hemopump is an effective left ventricular support system that is less invasive than conventional transthoracic systems.
transesophageal echocardiography in evaluation and management after a fontan procedure. transesophageal echocardiography was used in 18 patients (aged 1.6 to 34 years, mean age 12.6) to assess the immediate (5 patients) or intermediate (13 patients) results after a fontan-type procedure. the findings were correlated with precordial echocardiographic (all patients) and cardiac catheterization (11 patients) data. atrial shunting was documented by transesophageal studies in three patients (precordial in one patient). in two patients it was confirmed by cardiac catheterization; the third underwent reoperation based on the transesophageal study alone. pulmonary artery obstruction was documented in three patients (precordial in one patient) and was confirmed by subsequent cardiac catheterization in all. evaluation of anterior fontan connections was successful in 5 of 8 patients (precordial in 6 of 8), and posterior connections in 10 of 10 patients (precordial in 5 of 10). a glenn shunt could be evaluated in eight of nine patients (precordial in three of nine). thrombus formation was detected by transesophageal studies in three patients (precordial in one patient); repeat studies were used to evaluate thrombolytic therapy in two. atrioventricular valvular regurgitation (11 of 18 patients) was better defined by transesophageal than by precordial studies (5 of 18). a coronary artery fistula was identified in two cases (precordial in none). transesophageal pulsed doppler interrogation of pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein flow patterns consistently allowed a detailed evaluation of the fontan circulation. transesophageal echocardiography is an important diagnostic and monitoring technique after the fontan procedure. in this series, it was far superior to precordial ultrasound evaluation and of substantial additional value to cardiac catheterization.
antinuclear antibodies in sera of patients with recurrent pregnancy wastage. four groups of women were studied to determine whether low-level antinuclear antibody titers are associated with a higher risk for pregnancy loss. group a consisted of 30 patients with a history of unexplained fetal losses. group b consisted of 30 women with "explained" fetal losses (e.g., uterine septum or luteal phase defect). ages and number of losses were comparable between the women in groups a and b. group c consisted of 61 healthy pregnant women. group d involved 61 healthy nonpregnant women of reproductive age. in groups a and b, 40% and 53.3% of the respective patients had antinuclear antibody titers greater than or equal to 1:40. in groups c and d the frequencies of positive antinuclear antibody titers were 8.2% and 5.6%, respectively. this study demonstrates a high prevalence of low-titer antinuclear antibody-positive serum in patients with explained and unexplained pregnancy losses.
treatment of hepatolithiasis: improvement of result by a systematic approach. in previous decades the result of treatment of hepatolithiasis has been unsatisfactory. the incidence of residual stones after surgery might reach 77%. in the past 6 years we adopted a systematic approach comprised of accurate delineation of disease in the liver and biliary tract by direct cholangiography, ultrasonography, and computed tomography; tailored surgical treatment according to the extent of involvement of the liver and biliary tract; access to the intrahepatic ducts through the left duct or round ligament approach when there was difficulty with common bile duct exposure; routine use of flexible choledochoscopy; and application of electrohydraulic lithotripsy for large and impacted stones. complete stone clearance was achieved in 114 of 127 patients (89.8%). of those patients who had incomplete stone clearance, only six cases (4.7%) were related to technical failure of postoperative choledochoscopy. the incidence of stone recurrence was 15.8%, the lowest rate so far reported. it was the same regardless of whether a biliary drainage procedure had been performed, but the treatment for recurrent stones was facilitated by previous hepaticocutaneous jejunostomy. overall the surgical treatment required for stone recurrence was of a lesser magnitude than that in the past.
discordant bone marrow involvement in diffuse large-cell lymphoma: a distinct clinical-pathologic entity associated with a continuous risk of relapse. from 1975 to 1988, 50 patients with lymph node biopsy-documented diffuse large-cell lymphoma (dlcl) presented with bone marrow involvement. twenty-four patients (48%) had large-cell lymphoma (lcl) in the bone marrow and were compared with 19 (38%) patients who had small cleaved-cell lymphoma (sccl) in the marrow. additionally, seven patients (14%) had mixed small- and large-cell lymphoma (ml) in the marrow. patients who had lcl marrow involvement were younger (p less than .02) and more frequently had elevated lactic dehydrogenase (ldh) levels (p less than .001), high tumor burden (p less than .01), and more sites of extranodal disease (p less than .05) than those with sccl in the marrow. the complete response (cr) rate to multiagent chemotherapy was 16.7% in the lcl group and 89.4% in the sccl group (p less than .001). one third of the patients with lcl in the marrow developed cns involvement, compared with only one patient in the sccl group (p = .06). overall 5-year survival was 79% in patients with sccl marrow involvement, compared with only 12% in patients with lcl in the marrow (p = .002). despite a high cr rate, patients with marrow involved by sccl were at a high continuous risk of relapse with only a 30% failure-free survival at 5 years. we conclude that bone marrow involvement with lcl predicts for extremely poor prognosis with low response rate and short survival. patients with sccl in the bone marrow have a high rate of cr and a high rate of 5-year survival; however, there is a high risk of late relapse, and only 15% are in a continuous remission at 8 years.
bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass. bleeding after cpb has been difficult to characterize and its treatment equally difficult to standardize. the complexity of this problem is related to the hemostatic process, the technical variations in the operative procedures, and the many uncontrolled variables associated with cpb, including the effects of anesthetic or pharmacologic agents, the nature of the priming solution, hemodilution, hypothermia, the type of oxygenator, and the use of transfused blood products. although there are multiple and generally predictable complex changes in the hemostatic mechanism during cpb, the temporary loss of platelet function is the most common and clinically relevant. this transient platelet dysfunction occurs in all patients undergoing cpb; however, it only causes excessive bleeding in a small percentage of patients. unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to predict which patients will develop hemorrhagic complications, although prolonged pump times are a contributing risk factor. over the past decade there has been extensive investigation into the management of bleeding associated with cpb, provoked primarily by the increased awareness of transfusion-transmitted viral diseases and the inappropriately excessive use of homologous blood products. several approaches to autotransfusion of shed blood and autologus blood donation have been developed to minimize perioperative homologous blood transfusion. pharmacologic agents such as desmopressin, aprotinin, and topical fibrin glues have also been introduced to improve hemostasis during cpb. the protease inhibitor aprotinin is particularly promising in the reduction of bleeding associated with cpb when given prophylactically. aprotinin may provide new insights into the mechanism of cpb-induced platelet dysfunction. desmopressin is indicated only for the treatment of bleeding after cpb. the management of bleeding associated with cpb will undoubtedly.
detection of anti-epstein-barr virus trans-activator (zebra) antibodies in sera from patients with human immunodeficiency virus. patients with aids and aids-related complex often show symptoms of epstein-barr virus (ebv) reactivation. several ebv-encoded trans-acting factors activate the ebv lytic cycle, and one, zebra (bamhi z ebv replication activator; also called eb1), switches ebv from its latent to productive cycle. indirect immunofluorescence studies were done using human cells transfected with a recombinant dna-harboring cdna sequence spanning bzlf1 (bamhi z left frame 1) that was inserted downstream of the adenovirus major late promoter. igg anti-zebra antibodies were detected in a high proportion of asymptomatic hiv carriers and in aids patients but were absent in healthy control individuals. the presence of anti-zebra antibodies in the sera of hiv-positive patients favors the hypothesis that ebv reactivates in such subjects. this finding may be of practical importance in the prognostication of aids development.
electrophysiology of motor pathways for sphincter control in multiple sclerosis. the central and peripheral motor pathways serving striated sphincter muscle function were studied using cortical and lumbar transcutaneous electrical stimulation, pudendal nerve stimulation and sphincter electromyography in 23 patients with multiple sclerosis (ms), and sphincter disturbance, including incontinence of urine or faeces, urinary voiding dysfunction, or constipation. the central motor conduction time was significantly increased in the ms group compared to controls (p less than 0.05). damage to both the upper and lower motor neuron pathways can contribute to sphincter disturbance in ms. the latter may be due to coexisting pathology or to involvement of the conus medullaris by ms.
chronic headache associated with a functioning shunt: usefulness of pressure monitoring. chronic headaches in a shunt-dependent patient with small ventricles has long been treated with little or no regard to intracranial pressure. in this study, pressure monitoring on 12 such patients demonstrated that they fell into three distinct categories: 3 had headaches caused by intracranial hypertension, 2 had headaches from hypotension, and 7 showed no relation of symptoms to pressure. as therapeutic procedures for treating these three categories are entirely different and sometimes opposing, it is clear that intracranial pressure monitoring is essential to successful management of this complaint.
activated protooncogenes in human lung tumors from smokers. fourteen primary human lung tumor dnas from smokers were analyzed for transforming activity by two dna transfection assays. activated protooncogenes were detected in 3 of 11 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 focus assay, whereas activated protooncogenes were detected in 11 of 13 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 cotransfection-nude mouse tumorigenicity assay. k- or nras genes activated by point mutation at codons 12 or 61 were detected in a large cell carcinoma, a squamous cell carcinoma, and 5 adenocarcinomas. an hras oncogene activated by a different mechanism was detected in an epidermoid carcinoma. one adenocarcinoma was found to contain an activated raf gene. two unidentified transforming genes were detected in a squamous cell carcinoma dna and two adenocarcinoma dnas. eight of 10 lung adenocarcinomas that had formed metastases at the time of surgery were found to contain ras oncogenes. no significant increase in metastasis was observed in the lung adenocarcinomas that contained one or more 6-kilobase ecori alleles of the lmyc gene. overall, 12 of 14 (86%) of the lung tumor dnas from smokers were found to contain activated protooncogenes. ras oncogenes appear to play a role in the development of metastases in lung adenocarcinomas.
high incidence of viral hepatitis among american missionaries in africa. protestant missionaries (n = 360) serving in sub-saharan africa between 1967-1984 were studied to determine the risk of hepatitis a virus (hav) and hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection. personnel were serologically screened for antibody to both the hepatitis a virus (anti-hav) and the surface antigen to the hepatitis b virus (anti-hbs) prior to departure, periodically during service abroad, and upon completion of their african tour. rates of seroconversion were used as measures of the incidence of infection. prior to service, 16% of the staff had anti-hav and 3% had anti-hbs; post-service rates were 42% and 26%, respectively. over 90% of the staff with greater than 20 years of service were seropositive for anti-hav. for both viruses, the infection rate was highest during the first 1-2 years of service, when 28% of those susceptible to hav and 11% of those susceptible to hbv became infected. over the next decade, the median annual attack rate was 5.4% for hav and 4.2% for hbv. differences in the missionary hbv infection rate among the various african nations served tended to reflect differences in the magnitude of chronic hbv carriage among indigenous population groups. we conclude that missionaries to sub-saharan africa are at enhanced risk of both hav and hbv infection, and that all should receive passive immunization with immune globulin and active immunization with hepatitis b vaccine.
glutathione disulfide formation and oxidant stress during acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in mice in vivo: the protective effect of allopurinol. acetaminophen (500 mg/kg i.p.) induced hepatotoxicity in fasted icr mice in vivo. acetaminophen also caused a long-lasting 50% reduction of the hepatic atp content, an irreversible loss of hepatic xanthine dehydrogenase activity and a transient increase of the xanthine oxidase activity. all effects occurred before parenchymal cell damage, i.e., the release of cellular enzymes. the hepatic content of gsh and gssg was initially depleted by acetaminophen without affecting the gssg:gsh ratio (1:200), however, during the recovery phase of the hepatic gsh levels the gssg content increased faster than gsh, resulting in a gssg:gsh ratio of 1:18 24 h after acetaminophen administration. the mitochondrial gssg content increased from 2% in controls to greater than 20% in acetaminophen-treated mice. the extremely elevated tissue gssg levels were accompanied by a 4-fold increase of the plasma gssg concentrations but not by an enhanced biliary efflux, although hepatic gssg formation and biliary excretion were not affected by acetaminophen. allopurinol protected dose-dependently against acetaminophen-induced cell injury, the loss of atp and the increase of the gssg content in the total liver and in the mitochondrial compartment without inhibiting reactive metabolite formation. high, protective as well as low, nonprotective doses of allopurinol almost completely inhibited hepatic xanthine oxidase and dehydrogenase activity, but only high doses prevented the increase of the mitochondrial gssg content. the data indicate a long-lasting, primarily intracellular oxidant stress during the progression phase of acetaminophen-induced cell necrosis. the protective effect of allopurinol is unlikely to involve the inhibition of reactive oxygen formation by xanthine oxidase but could be the result of its antioxidant property.
spindle and epithelioid cell nevus (spitz nevus). natural history following biopsy. a clinical follow-up study of 49 cases of spindle and epithelioid cell nevus is presented to address the question about the potential for local recurrence. only 19 (39%) of the 49 lesions were initially excised en toto, and the remainder (30 cases) had positive margins; six of the latter spindle and epithelioid cell nevi were reexcised, and no evidence of a residual nevus was found in five of the six cases. there were no recurrences in the 49 patients during an average follow-up period of 5.0 years (range, 1 to 10 years). the rarity of recurrent spindle and epithelioid cell nevus would justify a conservative approach to management, with clinical follow-up alone recommended after a subtotal excision, when the pathologic diagnosis is unequivocal.
language function following anterior temporal lobectomy. the authors report the results of a prospective investigation that evaluated postoperative changes in language function after dominant (29 cases) or nondominant (35 cases) anterior temporal lobectomy for treatment of complex partial seizures. these patients received conservative resection of lateral temporal cortex but aggressive resection of medial temporal cortex. none of the patients underwent functional mapping of cortical language ability. all patients were assessed with a standardized aphasia battery (multilingual aphasia examination) before and 6 months after surgery. postoperatively, the dominant anterior temporal lobectomy group did not show any significant losses in language function compared to patients who underwent nondominant anterior temporal lobectomy. in addition, the dominant temporal lobectomy group showed significant postoperative improvement in complex receptive language comprehension compared to the nondominant group. these results suggest that patients with complex partial seizures of medial temporal lobe onset can undergo a conservative resection of lateral temporal cortex without language mapping. such surgery carries little risk to language function and provides an excellent postoperative surgical outcome.
left ventricular fibroma: echocardiographic diagnosis and successful surgical excision in three cases. the management of three patients with left ventricular fibromas is outlined. all were asymptomatic children. routine chest radiography suggested cardiac masses. m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography were valuable adjuncts to conventional angiography in assessing these children. electrocardiographic changes, present in all cases, were shown to regress postoperatively. we stress the importance of these noninvasive aids in the initial investigation and outline our operative methods of reconstruction.
reoperations on heart valve prostheses: an analysis of operative risks and late results. to evaluate risks and complications of reoperations on heart valve prostheses, we reviewed data on 183 patients who underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve malfunction. the incremental effect of the redo procedure on hospital mortality and morbidity was studied by comparing primary and reoperative procedures and analyzing a series of possible predisposing factors. late survival after first and second reoperations was computed, and possible determinants of late mortality were examined. overall operative mortality was 8.7%; emergency operation (p = 0.0001), previous thromboembolism (p = 0.05), and advanced new york heart association functional class (p = 0.031) were the independent determinants. in a series of 1,355 patients having primary or secondary isolated valve replacement, the redo procedure was a significant risk factor in the univariate analysis (p = 0.025) but not in the multivariate analysis except for the subset of patients having mitral valve replacement (p = 0.052). the postoperative course was quite complicated, as evidenced by the long mean stay in the intensive care unit (mean stay, 3.8 days; longer than 2 days for 26% of the survivors). nevertheless, postoperative complications were not significantly greater after a redo procedure than after a primary operation. actuarial survival at 7 years was 57.3% +/- 8%. a comparison with a nonhomogeneous series from our institution did not demonstrate significant differences. in the subset of 16 patients having a second reoperation, late survival was 37.8% +/- 16% at 2 years. advanced new york heart association class (p = 0.0001), double prosthetic valve dysfunction (p = 0.003), and any indication other than primary tissue failure (p = 0.06) were determinants of late mortality.
crohn's disease and retinal vascular disease. patients with crohn's disease may manifest extraintestinal findings including ocular involvement. we treated two patients with crohn's disease who manifested retinal vascular disease that may have been related to the immune nature of the underlying disease or possibly to changes in the vasculature or coagulation system. one patient had a central retinal vein occlusion and the other had retinal vasculitis involving retinal arteries and veins with an apparent branch retinal artery occlusion. both patients were in excellent health except for crohn's disease, which was confirmed by a biopsy specimen. in one patient, the diagnosis of retinal vasculitis preceded the clinical diagnosis of crohn's disease, whereas for the second patient the symptomatology of the intestinal disease preceded the ocular manifestations. we suggest that inflammatory bowel disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of retinal vascular occlusive disease, especially in a young patient.
hypercalcemia with excess serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma. hypercalcemia has been described in a variety of granulomatous and lymphoproliferative disorders in association with elevated serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. in such cases, hypercalcemia appears to be the consequence of excessive production of 1,25(oh)2d by the lymphocyte/macrophage line. the authors report a patient with lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma who developed hypercalcemia with extreme elevation in serum 1,25(oh)2d. therapy with steroids reduced the serum calcium and 1,25(oh)2d levels to normal. hypercalcemia has not previously been reported in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma. the distinctive features of this malignancy, and the derangement in the metabolism of 1,25(oh)2d in lymphoproliferative disorders in general, are discussed.
leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score in patients with cerebrovascular disease and in patients with primary and metastatic brain tumors. leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (lap) activity in peripheral blood was determined in 54 patients with cerebrovascular disease (cvd), 11 patients with primary brain tumor, and 23 patients with metastatic brain tumor. the lap score of the primary brain tumor patients (155 +/- 40) was significantly higher (p less than 0.03) than the lap score for cerebrovascular disease patients (96 +/- 87). the lap score levels of the metastatic brain tumor patients (251 +/- 55) was significantly higher as compared with both the cerebrovascular disease (p less than 0.001) and primary brain tumor groups (p less than 0.001). the lap score could serve as an additional, although non-specific, marker to assist in the differentiation between cerebrovascular disease and brain tumors.
effect of interleukin-1-beta on metastasis formation in different tumor systems. experiments were done to determine the effect of interleukin-1-beta (il-1 beta) on metastasis formation in different tumor systems. intravenous administration of 1 microgram of human recombinant il-1 beta given 1 hour before tumor cell injection augmented lung colony formation (experimental metastases) by the human a375 melanoma variants, the human ht-29m colon carcinoma, the sn12-k1 renal carcinoma in nude mice, the murine b16 melanoma variants, and the murine uv-2237m fibrosarcoma in syngeneic recipients. the same treatment did not induce lung colony formation by a human rectal carcinoma (hcc-p2988) or by a murine reticulum cell sarcoma (m5076), both of which are not metastatic to the lung. spontaneous metastases were studied in c57bl/6 mice bearing the b16-bl6 melanoma (metastatic to the lung) in their footpad and the m5076 reticulum cell sarcoma (metastatic to the liver) subcutaneously. daily intraperitoneal treatment with 1 microgram of il-1 beta increased lung and liver metastases. these findings indicate that treatment of mice with il-1 beta can increase the number of artificial or spontaneous metastases and that this effect is not limited to a single tumor type or to a specific organ.
indications for thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. fifty-six board-certified neurologists with interest and expertise in myasthenia completed a survey of indications for thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. thymectomy was advocated for virtually all patients with thymoma, for a variable subset of patients with generalized myasthenia without thymoma, and occasionally for selected patients with disabling ocular myasthenia.
head and neck paragangliomas: a clinicopathologic study with dna flow cytometric analysis. a total of 11 head and neck paragangliomas were the subject of pathologic study, including histologic, immunohistochemical, and dna flow cytometric analyses. we cannot absolutely predict aggressive clinical behavior using histologic parameters alone, but we can use such parameters to segregate patients into low-risk and high-risk groups. several trends were observed in the current study. tumors with higher s-phase fractions, g2/m fractions, or aneuploid cell populations tended to behave "aggressively." the presence of sustentacular cells in the primary tumors cannot be used as an absolute indicator of tumor metastatic potential, as two metastatic paragangliomas in this study contained sustentacular cells in both the primary and metastatic lesions. dna ploidy status cannot be used as an absolute prognostic parameter as the two metastatic tumors were composed of diploid primary and metastatic lesions. the three tumors with aneuploid cell populations showed "aggressive" histologic and clinical features, but the length of the follow-up period for these cases is too limited to draw any conclusions. although no absolute criteria can be used at present to gauge aggressiveness, close follow-up of these patients is essential, especially if pathologic findings suggest an "aggressive" course (ie, "malignant" histology, higher s-phase fractions, g2/m fractions, aneuploid cell populations, or decreased sustentacular cell density).
referral of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis for liver transplantation. all patients with primary biliary cirrhosis referred to this unit for consideration for transplantation between april 1981 and january 1989 were analysed retrospectively to assess whether disease stage at referral affects the outcome after grafting and whether greater awareness of the benefits of the procedure means that patients are now being referred at an earlier stage. seventy of the 107 patients have been grafted, with an overall one year actuarial survival of 62%. a better prognosis at the time of referral, as assessed by both serum bilirubin concentration and a mathematically derived prognostic index, was associated with a greater probability of survival after grafting. patients in the tertile with the best prognosis (median serum bilirubin concentration at referral 84 mumol/l and estimated survival in the absence of transplantation of more than nine months) had a 78% one year actuarial survival after transplantation, whereas those in the tertile with the worst prognosis (median serum bilirubin concentration 467 mumol/l and estimated survival of less than four months) had a one year actuarial survival of only 50%. no trend towards earlier referral of patients, however, was shown using either of these two markers. this retrospective analysis suggests that many patients are being referred too late for an optimal outcome. we recommend that patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who are potential candidates for liver grafting should be referred to a transplant centre before the serum bilirubin concentration approaches 150 mumol/l.
evaluation and therapy of breakthrough bleeding in women using a triphasic oral contraceptive. this study was designed to investigate the incidence and pattern of breakthrough bleeding (btb) in 1,259 women who were prescribed for the first time a triphasic oral contraceptive (oc, 7-7-7) and to evaluate a hypothesis of management for btb persisting after three cycles. the new users were compared with a control group of 696 women who had used various ocs for at least 6 months. the incidence of btb in the control group was 16.8% and in the new users was 24.9%, 17.5%, and 15.3% in the first 3 months, respectively. breakthrough bleeding occurred late in the 7-7-7 package in 58% and early or midway through the package in 17% and 25%, respectively. we hypothesized that late-package btb would improve if the patient was switched to a monophasic pill similar to the relatively estrogenic formulation of the beginning of the package and vice versa for early or midpackage btb. seventy women with btb at 3 months were randomly given 0.5/35 or 1/35 for a further 3 months. breakthrough bleeding was more likely (p less than 0.05) to improve in women switched to 1/35 compared with 0.5/35 regardless of where in the package btb occurred.
a risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy: effect of changes in compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome. a bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed to prevent ovarian cancer. the assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine oophorectomy. published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate that compliance is less than perfect. this fact could affect the overall outcome. decision analysis techniques with markov cohort modeling were used to evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy. results from studies judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease, breast cancer, and osteoporotic fracture. the decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance. when compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect, oophorectomy yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries. when actual drug-taking behavior is considered, retaining the ovaries results in longer survival. this analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed.
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy. we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression. six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly (group 1), and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia (group 2). eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months. in group 1, 1 patient died and 3 patients (50%) experienced recurrent respiratory distress. five infants sustained a major postoperative complication, and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days. in group 2, however, aortopexy was uniformly successful. there were no deaths, no postoperative complications, and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress, and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days. for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia, aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality. great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes.
transcatheter oily chemoembolization in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis: results of a western comparative study in 60 patients. transcatheter oily chemoembolization is widely used as palliative therapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma in high-incidence asiatic areas. to assess its usefulness in the western form of this cancer, 30 french patients were treated between 1987 and 1990 by intraarterial hepatic injection of a lipiodol-doxorubicin emulsion followed by embolization with 0.5 to 1 mm gelatin sponge particles. the number of procedures ranged from one to five. all patients had advanced, symptomatic and inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma (okuda's staging: i, n = 8; ii, n = 14; iii, n = 8); none was found under systematic screening. all had underlying cirrhosis (child-pugh's class: a, n = 15; b, n = 12; c, n = 3) that was alcoholic in origin in 27 cases and posthepatitic b in origin in 3 cases. the results of the treatment were assessed by comparison with a group of 30 untreated patients admitted to the same unit between 1984 and 1987. patients of both groups were closely matched for clinical presentation, global disease staging and precise anatomical extension. the overall 1- and 2-yr survival rate was 59% and 30%, respectively, for the treated patients vs. 0% at 1 yr for the untreated patients. the latter all died from local disease with end-stage liver failure and/or uncontrollable variceal bleeding. in the former, the three patients with child's class c cirrhosis died after the first procedure. during the follow-up (range = 3 to 26 mo), 11 additional patients died, 8 from metastatic generalization.
effects of aerobic exercise training on symptomatic women with mitral valve prolapse. the effects of a 12-week aerobic exercise training protocol on 32 symptomatic women with mitral valve prolapse were studied. subjects were randomly assigned to control or exercise groups. exercise subjects completed a 12-week (3 times per week) exercise training program based on guidelines established by the american heart association for phase ii cardiac rehabilitation programs; control group subjects maintained normal activities. before and after training, subjects underwent maximal multistage treadmill testing, and measurements were obtained for plasma catecholamine levels at rest and during peak exercise; they completed the state trait anxiety inventory and general well-being schedule. weekly symptom frequency of chest pain, arm pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, fatigue, headache, mood swings, dizziness and syncope were monitored for the 12-week period. data were analyzed using multivariate analysis of variance, multivariate analysis of covariance, and analysis of covariance with repeated measures. compared with control subjects, the exercise group showed a significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in state trait anxiety inventory scores, an increase in general well-being scores, an increase in functional capacity and a decline in the frequency of chest pain, fatigue, dizziness and mood swings. no statistically significant differences were noted in catecholamine levels at rest or during peak exercise. these findings support the use of aerobic exercise in the management of symptomatic women with mitral valve prolapse.
a multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease. perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality, and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse. we reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates, or both. multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions, a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death, while age, use of a bronchodilator, a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications. a duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications. the type of operation performed either simple closure, vagotomy and drainage or resection, did not influence morbidity or mortality. the most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term. long term results were improved with definitive operation, as measured by the visick classification and the need for reoperations. definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer.
ovarian neoplasms and the risk of adnexal torsion. previous reports examining adnexal torsion suggested that benign ovarian neoplasms are more likely to undergo torsion than malignant ovarian neoplasms. to our knowledge, this clinical observation has not been quantified. to examine this hypothesis, we reviewed our experience with ovarian neoplasms found at the time of surgery over a 10-year period. benign ovarian neoplasms had a 12.9-fold increased risk of undergoing adnexal torsion when compared with malignant ovarian neoplasms (95% confidence interval, 10.2 to 15.9). the histologic type of ovarian neoplasm does not appear to affect the rate of adnexal torsion. adnexal torsion rarely involves cancer.
aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. a 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss, pain, and redness in her right eye. results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative. neurologic problems, bronchopulmonary pneumonia, recurrent skin lesions, and a low-grade fever developed. progressive respiratory distress ensued, and the patient died 1 month after presentation. cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for aspergillus terreus. postmortem histologic results showed extensive a terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous, retina, choroid, and anterior optic nerve. this organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland, left kidney, thyroid, urinary bladder, right lung, skin, esophagus, sputum, vessels of the myocardium, and brain. to our knowledge, a terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously.
general assay for phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid: a candidate marker for paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. the components of protein phosphorylation systems (protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and their phosphoprotein substrates) are highly enriched in neuronal cells compared with other cell types. we exploited this relative neuronal enrichment of protein phosphorylation system components to develop a general assay technique for putative protein kinase substrates (phosphoproteins) in human cerebrospinal fluid. using this cerebrospinal fluid phosphoprotein assay, we have detected a putative protein kinase c substrate protein of apparent mr 60 kd in 6 of 14 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration but not in any of 55 patients with a variety of other neurological diseases. phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid may provide novel and unique markers for the diagnosis or staging of neuronal diseases as well as offer potential insights into the biochemical characterization of affected neuronal populations.
a comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia. pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting prl-lowering activity, allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug. the results of two open-label, randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported. pergolide (taken once a day), was compared with bromocriptine (taken two to four times daily) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of prl levels, the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea, the improvement in sexual function, and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without (trial i; 61 patients) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors (trial ii; 96 patients). both drugs were equally effective in lowering prl levels in both trials. a median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed prl levels in the 61 patients of trial i by more than 80%. during the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96% and 87% of patients, whereas menstruation returned in 90% and 96% of patients, respectively. an equally high efficacy (optimal median dose: 75-100 micrograms pergolide, 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily) was observed in trial ii, although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial i (50% and 58% of patients, respectively). sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients. in addition, tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs. a high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds: nausea, dizziness, vomiting, asthenia, headache, and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine. patients in trial i treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever, vasodilatation, and flu syndrome. conclusions: in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients, a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine. longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily, are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen. this might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia.
outbreak of spontaneous staphylococcal arthritis and osteitis in mice. staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial species found in association with nongonococcal bacterial arthritis in humans. we present here the first description of spontaneous bacterial arthritis and osteitis in mice. clinically, the most obvious findings were swelling and/or ankylosis of hindpaws and nodose changes of the tail. the prevalence of arthritis and osteitis ranged from 0% to greater than 50% of the mice studied, depending on the mouse strain. the most prominent histopathologic feature of the arthritis was hypertrophy of the synovial tissue and destruction of cartilage and underlying bone. most of the s aureus-infected mice displayed an identical phage type, which was also the only s aureus phage type found in skin isolates from clinically healthy mice. however, a few s aureus isolates were not typeable, indicating that an additional strain(s) might cause bacterial arthritis in mice.
paralytic shellfish poisoning--massachusetts and alaska, 1990 [published erratum appears in mmwr morb mortal wkly rep 1991 apr 12;40(14):242] paralytic shellfish poisoning (psp) is a foodborne illness caused by consumption of shellfish or broth from cooked shellfish that contain either concentrated saxitoxin, an alkaloid neurotoxin, or related compounds. this report summarizes outbreaks of psp that occurred in massachusetts and alaska in june 1990.
cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem component. a report of seven cases. seven patients had a cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem femoral component. four patients died in the operating room, and three patients were successfully resuscitated. when the three survivors were eventually discharged from the hospital, they had no known permanent cardiac, pulmonary, or neurological sequelae. factors that were common to all of the patients were advanced age, osteoporotic bone, a previously undisturbed intramedullary canal, and use of a long-stem femoral component and several batches of methylmethacrylate. hip arthroplasty with a long-stem femoral component is associated with substantial risk in these patients. excessive pressurization of cement should be avoided, and invasive hemodynamic monitoring should be used when the described conditions are present.
endothelium-dependent responses in long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts. in the present study, responses of long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts (cabgs) to known endothelium-dependent vasodilators, acetylcholine, calcium ionophore a23187, thrombin, and histamine, as well as authentic nitric oxide, the putative endothelium-derived relaxing factor, were studied. sixteen cagbs were isolated within 1-2 hours from hearts of 14 patients receiving a cardiac transplant. a total of 109 ring segments were prepared from these cabgs and studied in vitro. the duration of the cabgs ranged from 7 months to 12 years. addition of acetylcholine (0.01-10 microm), calcium ionophore a23187 (0.01-1.0 microm), thrombin (0.01-1.0 unit/ml), and histamine (0.01-1.0 microm) consistently produced a dose- and endothelium-dependent relaxation, reaching a maximum of -35.3 +/- 3.3%, -45.3 +/- 5.5%, -26.9 +/- 4.8%, and -17.8 +/- 2.5% (mean +/- sem), respectively. no significant difference was observed among the cabgs with different duration of transplantation, whereas the relaxant responses of different segments along the entire length of a cabg were markedly different. these latter differences in the endothelium-dependent responses appear to correlate inversely with the development of intimal proliferative lesions in these cabgs. addition of nitric oxide (0.01-10 microm) produced a potent dose- and endothelium-independent relaxation, which was also slightly depressed in cabgs with severe intimal proliferation. these results demonstrate that long-term transplanted human saphenous vein grafts retain their endothelium-dependent responses and that development of severe intimal proliferative lesions, rather than the duration of the grafts, result in marked alterations in the reactivity of these transplanted cabgs.
symptomatic pineal cyst: case report. pineal cysts are being described with increasing frequency since the advent of magnetic resonance imaging. although pineal cysts are incidental findings in as many as 4% of magnetic resonance imaging studies, symptomatic pineal cysts are quite rare. we present a case of pineal cyst causing aqueductal obstruction with symptomatic hydrocephalus and resultant headache and syncope, which was treated by surgical resection. a review of the relevant literature and discussion follow.
starch peritonitis. a case report and clinicopathologic review. a case of starch peritonitis is presented with a review of the history of this continuing problem. the syndrome's presentation, diagnosis, histopathology and treatment are discussed. the rarity of starch peritonitis today may be due to more attention to glove washing by surgeons, fewer impurities in the glove powder or lack of recognition of the syndrome. in order to prevent a resurgence of the starch peritonitis syndrome we must continue to emphasize the importance of washing gloves, maintain the quality control and purity of the powder used, and be cognizant of the signs and symptoms so that such cases may be managed nonoperatively.
effect of maintenance digoxin therapy on aerobic performance and exercise left ventricular function in mild to moderate heart failure due to coronary artery disease: a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. despite 200 years of use, the ability of digitalis glycosides to improve exercise capacity in patients with congestive heart failure remains controversial, partly because of imprecise end points and suboptimal study design. therefore, this question was examined in 10 ambulatory patients (8 men and 2 women) aged 46 to 70 years (mean 57.8) in sinus rhythm with mild to moderate chronic stable congestive heart failure due to coronary artery disease and systolic left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 32 +/- 12). all underwent maximal treadmill exercise with respiratory gas analysis and upright cycle ergometry with gated radionuclide angiography after 4 weeks of digoxin or placebo therapy, administered in a randomized double-blind crossover protocol. neither treadmill exercise duration (7.7 +/- 2.3 versus 7.3 +/- 2.7 min) nor peak oxygen consumption (18.7 +/- 3.7 versus 18.4 +/- 5.4 ml/kg per min) differed between digoxin and placebo regimens. however, the change in peak oxygen consumption induced by digoxin was inversely related to the peak oxygen consumption during placebo therapy (r = -0.64, p less than 0.05). at maximal treadmill effort, heart rate (138 +/- 16 versus 141 +/- 21 beats/min), oxygen pulse (10.3 +/- 2.1 versus 9.9 +/- 2.2 ml/beat), ventilation (40.3 +/- 10.6 versus 42.0 +/- 10.8 liters/min) and ventilatory equivalent (29.4 +/- 4.8 versus 31.5 +/- 6.8) did not differ between digoxin and placebo treatment, although systolic blood pressure was higher during digoxin therapy (163.0 +/- 23.1 versus 153.2 +/- 25.3 mm hg, p less than 0.05).
the physical state of human papillomavirus 16 dna in cervical carcinoma and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. cervical carcinomas and cervical intraepithelial neoplasias (cin) were analyzed for the presence of human papillomavirus (hpv) dna using southern blot hybridization. of the five hpv types examined (hpv types 6, 11, 16, 18, and 33), hpv 16 dna was detected most frequently. in most hpv 16-positive carcinomas examined, hpv 16 dna was present in an integrated state in cellular dna with or without the coexistence of episomal species. in one case, however, only episomal species were detected. among seven cases of hpv 16-positive cin, four contained hpv 16 dna only in the episomal state and the rest contained hpv 16 dna only in the integrated state, but the coexistence of both states was not found. these results suggest that the integration of hpv 16 dna is not necessary for cells to become malignant, although it is frequently associated with malignant cells.
severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption. a severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption is described. data are presented to show a significant absorption of lidocaine through diseased skin when lidocaine cream is used as a local anesthetic. awareness of this route of intoxication might be important in patients in whom neurologic or psychiatric symptoms develop while large amounts of lidocaine cream are being used.
effects of short spaceflights on mechanical characteristics of rat muscles. the aim of this study was to investigate the contractile protein characteristics after 5-day (cosmos 1514) and 7-day (cosmos 1667) spaceflights. the experiments were performed on skinned fibers from the soleus, gastrocnemius lateralis, and plantaris muscles isolated from wistar rats. a reduction in fiber diameter might explain the decrease in the maximal tension in the soleus, whereas this tension was unaltered in the gastrocnemius and the plantaris. moreover the calcium sensitivity of the myofilament appeared modified in the soleus and in the gastrocnemius: the tension/pca relationships were shifted toward higher calcium concentrations, indicating a decrease in the apparent calcium binding constant of the troponin c. the tension/pca relationship appeared unaltered in the plantaris after spaceflight. finally, the studies of the time to reach a steady tension indicated an increase in the rate of force development in the soleus and, on the contrary, a slowing down in the plantaris. no change in the gastrocnemius was found. the results were analyzed with references to the different muscle functions in disuse atrophy.
dyspareunia. tracing the cause. difficult or painful sexual intercourse is a sensitive topic for most women. the causes range from inflammation of the vulva and interstitial cystitis to marital discord. to exclude an organic disorder, a detailed pelvic examination with good lighting and magnification is in order. dr dewitt describes the technique for meticulous examination and discusses the diagnoses that need to be considered.
atrial fibrillation with cardiac tamponade as the initial manifestation of malignant pericarditis this article describes the case of a 72-year-old woman with cardiac tamponade and atrial fibrillation as the initial manifestation of a lymphoid malignancy. the pathogenesis of cardiac tamponade, various diagnostic modalities, and therapy of this condition are reviewed.
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis. we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms, hyperplastic gastric polyps, and active chronic gastritis. biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori (hp) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr. after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate, both became asymptomatic, one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp. these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis.
antihypertensive effect and pharmacokinetics of nitrendipine in children. nitrendipine, a new calcium-channel antagonist, was used to treat 25 children (aged 6 months to 17 years) with severe hypertension. systolic and diastolic blood pressures (mean +/- sem) fell from 148 +/- 2/99 +/- 2 mm hg to 128 +/- 4/77 +/- 3 mm hg after 24 hours and to 121 +/- 2/75 +/- 2 mm hg after 2 weeks. no further reductions in systolic or diastolic blood pressure were observed after continued therapy. transient reflex tachycardia occurred during the first week of therapy. other adverse effects were uncommon and included headaches, flushing, palpitations, and edema. pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated at steady state after an oral dose of 0.56 +/- 0.04 mg/kg in 13 children. although absolute oral bioavailability could not be determined, estimates of the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve, the apparent peak serum concentration, and the apparent time at which the peak serum concentration occurred indicated that both the rate of absorption and oral bioavailability are variable. coadministration of nitrendipine with food decreased the rate of absorption and may have reduced oral bioavailability. a relationship between age and the apparent plasma elimination half-life of nitrendipine was not observed. nitrendipine, 0.25 to 0.5 mg/kg per dose administered orally every 6 to 12 hours, appeared to be an effective and safe treatment for resistant hypertension in infants and children.
ascites not due to congestive heart failure in a fetus with lupus-induced heart block. hydrops developing in fetuses with lupus-associated heart block has usually been assumed to result from congestive heart failure. we present a case in which fetal ascites associated with complete heart block resolved promptly after administration of betamethasone and prednisone to the mother, who had anti-ssa and who developed clinical lupus erythematosus. this resolution occurred with no demonstrable change in fetal cardiac function. we conclude that an immune mechanism, rather than congestive heart failure, was responsible for the fetal ascites.
the natural history of colorectal cancer. opportunities for intervention. there is now a better understanding of the natural history of colorectal cancer, which has provided a basis for intervention to influence outcome. the possible interventions include earlier detection of colorectal cancer, removal of premalignant adenomas, demonstration of the mucosal field defect that precedes neoplasia to evaluate baseline risk and its change with dietary modification, and identification of inherited and dietary risk factors. five controlled trials evaluating early detection of colorectal cancer with fecal occult blood testing have enrolled more than 309,000 patients. early stage cancers with improved survival has been observed, but data on mortality reduction have not as yet been reported. studies of patients with adenomas have demonstrated high synchronous and metachronous rates as a basis for complete colon evaluation initially and a surveillance follow-up program. hyperproliferation and lack of normal differentiation have been observed as a field defect in the colon preceding neoplasia. inherited factors have recently been shown to be important in a larger proportion of individuals destined to develop colorectal adenomas and cancer. these observations of the natural history of colorectal cancer have provided new opportunities for the application of radiologic and endoscopic techniques in diagnosis and surveillance; each examination has its merit. further research is needed to answer many critical questions that have been raised regarding the impact of these interventions.
anal sphincter function after intersphincteric resection and stapled ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. this study was done to determine the effect of the direct ileal pouch-anal anastomosis upon pressure and sensory components of the anal canal and ileal pouch. these findings were related to postoperative continence. thirty-three patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (25 continent, eight with episodic minor incontinence) were studied 3 +/- 0.3 and 25 +/- 5 months after ileostomy takedown. the maximum resting pressure in the anal canal was significantly lower in patients with an imperfect result (35 +/- 5 mm hg) than in continent patients (44 +/- 5 mm hg) (p less than 0.05). postoperatively the maximum squeeze anal pressure was slightly greater in continent than in incontinent patients (99 +/- 8 mm hg vs. 87 +/- 7 mm hg) (p greater than 0.05). the postoperative recto-(ileo-)anal inhibitory reflex was present in 27 percent. the linear correlation between strength of rectal (ileal) distension and depth resp. duration of internal sphincter relaxation as preoperatively observed disappeared postoperatively in every group of patients. simultaneous measurements of pouch and anal pressure in patients with imperfect results revealed a reduced positive pouch anal pressure gradient compared to the continent group. this low pouch-anal pressure gradient is thought to be responsible for the increased incidence of soiling in some of our patients.
platelet activation by emotional stress in patients with coronary artery disease. we studied the effects of experimentally induced emotional stress (mental arithmetic) on different hemodynamic parameters, catecholamine levels, and serum and platelet function tests in 25 postinfarction patients and in 10 apparently healthy, age-matched control subjects. mental stress (10 minutes) induced significant increments in heart rate, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, double product, and cardiac output, indicating a sympatho-adrenal stimulation that was confirmed by a significant increase in serum epinephrine and norepinephrine levels. all of the effects disappeared at minute 10 of recovery. concomitantly, the test produced a significant increase in platelet aggregation (induced by 3 microm adp or 1 microgram/ml collagen), the formation of circulating platelet aggregates, and an increase in thromboxane b2 levels in plasma and serum. these effects were also rapidly reversible. similar activation of hemodynamic parameters and a similar but less evident increase in platelet function by emotional stress were observed in control subjects. a possible artifact due to factitious platelet activation by catheter sampling was excluded with experiments in which a 40-minute rest was introduced after the baseline period and before mental stress; platelet activation did not occur during baseline or rest periods, only after emotional stress. furthermore, the antiplatelet drug dipyridamole reduced the stress-induced formation of platelet aggregates in postinfarction patients. these results demonstrate the existence of a direct link between emotional stress and platelet function and offer an explanation of one of the mechanisms through which mental stress may be involved in the development of coronary artery disease.
sucralfate used as adjunctive therapy in patients with severe erosive peptic esophagitis resulting from gastroesophageal reflux. a total of 36 patients with grade 2 or greater erosive esophagitis and an abnormal 24-h ph monitor study, were treated in a randomized, double-blind fashion to assess the efficacy of sucralfate suspension as adjunctive therapy to cimetidine for severe esophagitis secondary to gastroesophageal reflux. treatment consisted of cimetidine, 300 mg qid and either sucralfate suspension (1 g/10 ml) or an identical placebo suspension, 10 ml after meals and 20 ml hs. patients were treated for 12 wk unless endoscopic healing occurred earlier. initial evaluation and monthly follow-up consisted of symptom monitoring, endoscopic evaluation and pre- and post-therapy esophageal manometry, bernstein test, and 24-h ph monitoring. the combination of cimetidine and sucralfate suspension was superior to cimetidine alone in improving daytime heartburn symptoms (p less than 0.05) but not nighttime heartburn, dysphagia, or regurgitation. sucralfate plus cimetidine improved the overall endoscopic outcome of esophagitis more than cimetidine alone (p less than 0.05). more patients exhibited endoscopic healing in the adjunctive sucralfate group than in the cimetidine-only group. endoscopic healing, however, was not statistically different between groups. we conclude that sucralfate used as adjunctive therapy to cimetidine resulted in improvement of some of the symptoms of reflux, and probably increases the likelihood of complete healing of esophagitis, compared with cimetidine alone.
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty. an experimental study in piglets. paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta. the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty. the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min. twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact, whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic. the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings.
salpingoscopy in patients with contralateral ectopic pregnancy. patients who experience a tubal pregnancy have a poor prognosis in terms of reproductive potential and are at increased risk of a repeat ep. salpingoscopy is a new endoscopic technique that allows the detection of abnormalities of the tubal mucosa. in seven patients with a follow-up longer than 6 months, an iup occurred only in patients with a normal ampullary mucosa, whereas a recurrent tubal pregnancy occurred in the patient that conceived with an abnormal tubal mucosa. these preliminary results suggest that salpingoscopy may constitute an important prognostic factor in these patients.
primary malignant peritoneal mesothelioma. a report of seven cases and a review of the literature. mesothelioma of the peritoneum is a rare malignant neoplasm easily mistaken by both surgeon and pathologist for one of the more common neoplasms of the abdomen. review of our records from metropolitan-area hospitals for the past 15 years identified seven patients with primary peritoneal mesotheliomas. their diagnosis, management, and survival is analyzed. we report a case of an extended survivor (7 years) and one of a long-term survivor (15 years), as well as what we believe to be the only case in the literature presenting with a coexistent malignant neoplasm. prevention of this commonly fatal neoplasm is linked to avoiding occupational exposure to asbestos; long-term survival for a few patients may be achieved with correct identification of the neoplasm and aggressive management. this report includes a review of the literature.
drug-induced supraventricular tachycardia: a case report of fluoxetine. we report the occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension in a 54-year-old woman after maintenance therapy with fluoxetine. although cases of tachycardia and palpitations have been reported, supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension have not been directly attributed to fluoxetine.
acute tolerance in morphine analgesia: continuous infusion and single injection in rats. this study aimed to determine whether the decline of the analgesic effect of morphine with a continuous infusion or that after a single injection correlates with the changes in brain concentration of morphine. the analgesic effect of morphine and its brain and serum concentrations were determined with a continuous 8-h infusion at a constant rate and after a single subcutaneous injection of the agent. the analgesic effect was determined by measuring the threshold of motor response to noxious stimulation. brain and serum concentrations of morphine were detected by radioimmunoassay with the use of 125i-labeled morphine. with the constant-rate (4 mg.kg-1.h-1, intravenous) morphine infusion, the peak of analgesia could not be maintained: the increase in the pain threshold at 2 h was 1,003 g and at 8h was 286 g (a decrease in analgesia by 72%, p less than 0.0002). at the same time, the brain morphine concentration tended to increase, to 278 ng/g at 2 h and 329 ng/g at 8 h. after the single morphine injection (6 mg/kg, subcutaneous), recovery from analgesia occurred at a much faster rate than did the decrease in morphine brain concentration; the decrease in pain threshold was 79% at 90 vs. 30 min after the injection (p less than 0.0001), and the corresponding decrease in brain concentration was 28% (ns). the absence of correlation between analgesia and morphine brain concentration both with the constant-rate morphine infusion and after the single injection suggests the development of acute tolerance, which is pharmacodynamic in nature.
kindling susceptibility and genetic seizure predisposition in inbred mice. olfactory bulb kindling rates were studied in two inbred strains of genetically seizure-prone mice (dba/2 and el) and in three non-epileptic inbred strains [c57bl/6 (b6), ddy, and c3h/he (c3h)]. none of the dba/2 mice had been stimulated to seizure before or during the kindling and all mice were studied at 4-6 weeks of age, before development of spontaneous or movement-induced seizure activity in the el strain. the audiogenically seizure-susceptible dba/2 mice required the fewest number of stimulations to reach stage 5 seizure (mean +/- se = 4.0 +/- 0.6). the nonepileptic c3h mice required the most stimulations to reach stage 5 seizures (22.6 +/- 1.4). kindling rates for b6 (9.6 +/- 0.6), el (14.8 +/- 1.1), and ddy (18.5 +/- 1.0) strains were intermediate, and the kindling rate for each strain was significantly different from that of the other strains. these findings show that the seizure-susceptible el mouse kindles more rapidly than the genetically similar but nonepileptic ddy control and suggest that an inherited seizure susceptibility accelerates the kindling rate. nonepileptic b6 mice kindled more rapidly than el mice, however, suggesting that genetic factors other than those that influence seizure susceptibility are of primary importance in the determination of the kindling rate.
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. i. summary of the current concepts of the mechanisms of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia that is frequently resistant to medical therapy and has no satisfactory surgical therapy. the development of an effective surgical procedure to treat atrial fibrillation has been hampered by the paucity of clinically relevant information on the basic mechanisms responsible for the arrhythmia. this paper summarizes the current concepts of the electrophysiologic abnormalities in atrial flutter and fibrillation.
do life events or depression exacerbate inflammatory bowel disease? a prospective study. objective: to determine whether depressed mood or life events are associated with an exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease. design: a prospective study of a consecutive sample of patients with relapsing inflammatory bowel disease, followed by monthly questionnaires and periodic office visits. setting: a referral-based gastroenterology clinic at a medical school. patients: a consecutive sample of 32 patients with inflammatory bowel disease who had had at least one relapse in a 2-year period after entry into the study. measurements and main results: the social readjustment rating scale (measuring life events), the beck depression inventory (a visual analog scale for depressed mood) and an inventory of intestinal symptoms were completed monthly by each subject with a 78% rate of compliance. a mean of 2.2 exacerbations was seen per subject during the study period. life events were not temporally associated with changes in intestinal symptoms. significant associations were found between intestinal symptoms and the two mood scales (p less than 0.05 for each), but no directionality in symptom occurrence could be detected in a time-lagged analysis. the results were similar when the months preceding exacerbations of inflammatory bowel disease were analyzed separately. conclusions: although these findings suggest that mood changed concurrently with exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease, no evidence indicated that stressful life events or depressed mood precipitated exacerbations in this study group.
esophageal candidiasis in aids. successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth. in this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with aids, of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms. therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets, 100 mg, taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms, oral candidiasis, and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men. clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in aids patients.
delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression. we report two unusual cases of delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression of structures within the cerebellopontine angle. in the first case, the patient noted a unilateral hearing loss 3 weeks after undergoing vascular decompression of the trigeminal nerve for tic douloureux. this gradually improved over an 18-month period. in the second case, the patient awoke on the 4th day after vascular decompression of the facial nerve for hemifacial spasm with a bilateral hearing loss that has remained unchanged after the onset. these are examples of delayed acoustic dysfunction occurring with a shift in surgically freed vessels and may have been induced by newly directed neurovascular compression or distortion.
the "stuck twin" phenomenon: ultrasonographic findings, pregnancy outcome, and management with serial amniocenteses. thirteen consecutive twin pregnancies affected by the "stuck twin" phenomenon were reviewed to determine the potential benefit of serial amniocenteses. the fetal survival rate for the eight pregnancies that underwent serial amniocenteses was 69% (11 of 16 fetuses). this is significantly improved compared with a fetal survival rate of 20% among the five preceding pregnancies managed without serial amniocenteses at the same institution (p = 0.01). it is also markedly improved compared with a combined fetal survival rate of 16% among 48 previously reported pregnancies with the stuck twin phenomenon managed without serial amniocenteses (p less than 0.0001). survival correlated with the absence of concomitant pregnancy complications (i.e., maternal hypertension or intractable labor) and with the absence of severe fetal structural abnormalities. procedural complications occurred in three of eight pregnancies (37.5%) managed with serial amniocenteses and was attributed as a cause of fetal death in one case. two of 11 survivors (18%) had complications after serial amniocenteses including brain infarction and renal tubular necrosis. serial amniocenteses may significantly improve the survival rate of twin gestations affected by the stuck twin phenomenon but may be associated with complications among survivors.
surgical staging of cervical cancer. noninvasive radiologic methods to detect paraaortic lymph node metastases are reliable when combined with fna of enlarged lymph nodes. however, the sensitivity is low, and undetected microscopic metastases leads to treatment failure. these patients with paraaortic lymph node metastasis are not treated with extended-field radiation, and they all die within 3 years. the ct scanning is probably the best diagnostic method to evaluate cervical cancer, because it can assess the primary tumor, the urinary tract, gastrointestinal tract, liver parenchyma, and retroperitoneum. it also permits the guidance of fna and the arrangement of radiation ports. surgical staging provides the direct assessment of the peritoneal cavity and the retroperitoneal spaces. metastatic tumor, including enlarged lymph nodes, can be resected, but this is of dubious benefit. the operative morbidity is acceptable, with fewer intestinal complications when the extraperitoneal approach is used, and long-term morbidity is minimal when appropriate paraaortic radiation doses are employed (less than 5,000 cgy). surgical staging has provided data on the frequency of paraaortic lymph node metastasis by stage of cervical cancer, and thus, treatment strategies can be better developed. extended-field radiation results in 5-year survival rates of 20-25% in patients with microscopic paraaortic lymph node metastasis, patients who would not survive without the treatment. however, surgical staging has produced only a modest boost in survival rates, because of the high rate of pelvic and systemic failure. when extended-field radiation is used prophylactically or in patients with probable lymph node metastasis seen on radiographic studies, survival rates are similar to patients irradiated after surgical staging finds paraaortic lymph node disease. as our ability to predict, and detect nonsurgically, positive paraaortic node disease improves, extended radiation (or other adjuvant therapy) could be used more frequently without operation in patients who are at high risk for metastatic disease. in a study by haie et al, prophylactic paraaortic radiation was given to patients at high risk for paraaortic metastasis. in patients with a high probability of local disease control, paraaortic radiation significantly reduced the incidence of paraaortic and distant metastases. patients with known paraaortic lymph node metastases frequently have occult systemic metastases. in these same patients, pelvic failure is also common. thus, until effective systemic therapies emerge, a marked improvement in survival is unlikely in patients who have paraaortic lymph node metastasis.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
inner ear cholesteatoma and the preservation of cochlear function. labyrinthine destruction by direct cholesteatoma invasion has always been considered a serious threat to the inner ear function. a number of reports in the literature have cited both patients who had preservation of hearing despite widespread erosion of the labyrinth by cholesteatoma and patients who had retained auditory function despite surgical removal of the matrix from the labyrinth. in most cases the vestibular portion of the inner ear was invaded but cases of cochlear involvement have been described as well. twelve cases with pre-operative auditory function preservation despite extensive labyrinthine destruction treated at our institution are reported. seven cases retained cochlear function post-operatively. possible explanations of this occurrence and implications of related with hearing preservation in the presence of widespread inner ear destruction by chronic inflammatory disease are discussed.
the progression of mild idiopathic dementia in a community population. thirty-one subjects aged 75 years and over who were identified as suffering from mild, idiopathic dementia in a large community survey were reviewed at annual intervals for 2 years. diagnoses and severity ratings were based on defined criteria following a mental state examination, a medical and psychiatric history, detailed cognitive testing, and an interview with relatives or other key informants. fourteen subjects became more severely demented within 2 years. the initial cognitive test battery failed to reveal any differences between respondents whose dementia advanced and those whose condition remained unchanged, but, in the former group, subjects' symptoms had been present for longer, and a greater proportion had been recognised as demented, or possibly demented, by their general practitioners. we suggest that subjects whose dementia progressed had actually been more severely disabled at the time of identification.
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. i. enhanced tolerance of immature versus adult myocardium to global ischemia with reference to metabolic differences. this study compares the metabolism and functional responses of adult and immature hearts to a standard ischemic insult. ten adult dogs (25 to 27 kg) and 10 puppies (6 to 10 weeks old) underwent 45 minutes of aortic clamping on bypass. preoperative and postoperative ventricular performance (starling curves), biochemical factors, and water content were measured. global ischemia in adults produced a 30% mortality rate (3/10) and low output syndrome in survivors (33% recovery of stroke work index). conversely, all puppies survived and stroke work index returned to 85% of control, with less edema developing (0.4% versus 2% water gain, p less than 0.05). puppies expended comparable glycogen stores but used more glutamate (15.4 versus 8.6 mumol/gm dry weight), produced more alanine (18.9 versus 6.4 mumol, p less than 0.05), succinate (19 versus 8.2 mumol, p less than 0.05), and malate (2.6 versus 0.15 mumol, p less than 0.05) during ischemia, and recovered better postischemic aerobic metabolism (410 versus 255 nmol tissue pyruvate, p less than 0.05). we conclude that tolerance of immature hearts to ischemia is related to amino acid utilization by transamination and increased substrate level phosphorylation, as occurring in diving mammals, suggesting retention of intrautero adaptive mechanisms.
carotid endarterectomy for chronic retinal ischemia. carotid arterial disease may result in a variety of ischemic ocular problems that can eventually lead to permanent blindness. from 1984 to 1988, 18 patients underwent reconstruction of the carotid artery in an attempt to restore normal retinal arterial flow and, thereby, reverse or prevent progression of ischemic oculopathy. during a mean period of 21 months after carotid arterial reconstruction, subjective improvement in vision as well as a resolution in eye and periorbital pain was reported in 87.5 per cent of the patients. measured visual acuity improved or stabilized in 94.4 per cent; macular photostress recovery times improved in 87.5 per cent, funduscopic examinations noted improvement or resolution in ischemic signs in 93.3 per cent and intraocular pressures improved in two of three patients. one patient experienced recurrent episodes of amaurosis fugax, which resolved after two weeks and did not recur. a second patient experienced an increase in intraocular pressures with visual deterioration, required laser photocoagulation after which the condition of the patient stabilized but only after significant visual impairment. carotid arterial reconstruction is effective for the treatment of ischemic oculopathy and is most beneficial if performed early, before the onset of irreversible neovascular glaucoma.
aetiology of pancreatic cancer curative surgery is possible in only a small minority of patients with pancreatic cancer and, to date, responses to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been disappointing. to make any impact on the incidence of the disease a clearer understanding of its aetiology is required. this review explores present knowledge of the aetiology and epidemiology of pancreatic cancer.
ascites revealing peritoneal and hepatic extramedullary hematopoiesis with peliosis in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia: case report and review of the literature. a 61-year-old man presented with ascites in the course of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (amm). ascitic fluid was exudative and contained mature and immature leukocytes, erythroid cells, and megakaryocytes as observed on a bone marrow smear. peritoneal biopsy showed myeloid metaplasia, and liver biopsy revealed intrasinusoidal myeloid metaplasia and peliosis. ascites cleared after abdominal radiotherapy but treatment resulted in transient aplasia. subsequently, portal hypertension was demonstrated by hepatic transjugular catheterization. complications of splenomegaly led to splenectomy and splenorenal shunt followed by fatal acute hepatitis and septic shock. a review of the literature and an analysis of mechanisms of ascites occurring in amm, especially peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue and occurrence of peliosis in myeloproliferative disorders, are presented.
the dynamics of platelet thrombus formation rate, thrombus retention time, and rate of embolization on a control and heparin bonded polyurethane angio-catheter. the dynamics of platelet deposition and embolization from control and heparin bonded polyurethane catheters (cpc and hbpc) was evaluated with in-111 labeled autologous platelets (in-plt) and a computerized gamma camera (cgc). ten non-heparinized dogs (18-25 kg) were catheterized in both femoral arteries with 10 cm of cpc and hbpc (5 fr., cordis) 24 hr after injection of 300-420 microci of in-plt, and imaged for 3 hr with the computerized gamma camera. the regional platelet deposition curves (rpdc) indicated multiple peaks and valleys; the curves were analyzed for early rate of thrombus formation (upswing), thrombus retention time (full width at half maxima of the rpdc-peak), and rate of embolization (downswing) on both catheters. the four parameters (mean +/- sd) of thrombosis on catheters and integral of the radioactivity time curve for the 3 hr duration of imaging were calculated from normalized counts/sec. the rate of thrombus formation and rate of embolization are higher for the control than hbpc, suggesting that heparin-bonding decreases the early rate of thrombosis and embolization. the thrombus adhesivity and retention time appear shorter for the control catheter, indicating that the control thrombogenic catheter forms multiple thrombi and emboli than hbpc. the integral appears larger for the control catheter than hbpc. in vivo (dynamic) studies, in vitro studies, and critical analyses of the radioactivity time curve were essential for complete evaluation of thrombogenicity of catheters and other cardiovascular prostheses.
jejunal-rectal fistula as a complication of postoperative radiotherapy. we present the case of a patient with an unusual, complex enteric fistula with multiple tracts and associated abscesses. the fistula was a late complication of radiotherapy, administered three years earlier, after resection for carcinoma of the sigmoid colon. most of the small bowel was involved in the radiation-induced disease. a wide resection was performed successfully. this report reviews current literature on intra-abdominal postradiotherapy injuries, particularly intestinal fistulae.
coronary bypass surgery: is the operation different today? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years. to document this change, we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 (n = 1586) and 1987 (n = 1513) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass. between 1981 and 1987, patients were found to be older (greater than or equal to 70 years, 8.7% versus 21.8%, p less than 0.0001), more often diabetic (15% versus 24%, p less than 0.0001), have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease (14.5% versus 46.1%, p less than 0.0001), and have more left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 0.60 +/- 14 versus 0.54 +/- 13, p less than 0.0001). to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups, we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987: subgroup i, no prior procedure (n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987); subgroup ii, optimal group (n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987, and defined as no prior procedure, ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years); subgroup iii, patients having reoperations (n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987). internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1% in 1987. major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly: need for intraaortic balloon pumping, 1.4% versus 4.7%, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction 3.5% versus 5.5%, p less than 0.008; stroke, 1.4% versus 2.8%, p less than 0.008; and wound infection, 1.0% versus 3.0%, p less than 0.001. wound infection (all types) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction (0.7% versus 5%, p less than 0.0001). for young patients with good left ventricular function (subgroup ii), there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987. hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2% to 3.1% (p less than 0.0002), respectively. it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition (subgroup ii) in both years, 0.8% versus 1.1%, and highest for reoperative patients, 5.3% versus 4.3%. in 1981, 58% of patients (503/870) were in the optimal group compared with 35% (292/828) in 1987 (p less than 0.0001). the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older, sicker patients who have more complex disease, with a significant reduction in the best candidate group.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
job dimensions associated with severe disability due to cardiovascular disease. this study explored associations among job activities and disability due to cardiovascular disease by merging national disability data with independently-obtained job activity data. disability data were taken from a 1978 u.s. health interview survey (n = 9855). expert ratings of job activities (dimensions) were obtained from a job analysis database (n = 2485 occupations). the two databases were merged such that job dimension data were imputed to each occupation in the disability database. odds ratios for cardiovascular disability were calculated for scores in the second, third, and fourth quartiles for each of the 32 job dimensions, using scores in the first quartile as the standard. job dimensions associated with cardiovascular disability were (a) hazardous situations; (b) vigilant work and responsibility for others; (c) exchanging job-related information; and (d) attention to devices. occupations identified with high scores on these job dimensions included transportation jobs (air traffic controllers, airline pilots and attendants, bus drivers, locomotive engineers, truck drivers), teachers (preschool, adult education), and craftsmen/foremen (machinists, carpenters, and foremen).
pancreatic ascites: treatment by continuous somatostatin infusion. two male patients with recurrent acute pancreatitis due to alcohol abuse were admitted with pancreatic ascites (high concentration of amylase, raised protein concentration, no specific cytologic features). ultrasound (us) and computed tomography (ct) confirmed gross ascites and inflammation of the pancreas in both patients, and a pseudocyst in the head of the pancreas in one of them. treatment with total parenteral nutrition (tpn) and a h2-blocking agent was instituted and continued for 4 and 2 wk, respectively. due to lack of improvement, somatostatin infusion (250 micrograms/h) was started. during the next few days, there was a rapid improvement of the clinical status, and the production of ascites ceased. we conclude that somatostatin infusion should be tried before any invasive diagnostic or therapeutic intervention in patients with pancreatic ascites.
recurrence of acoustic neurilemoma as a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm. case report. a 75-year-old man presented with a right cerebellopontine angle tumor 11 months after complete macroscopic resection of a right acoustic neurilemoma. histological examination of the recurrent tumor showed a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm with positive staining for s-100 protein. the patient had no stigmata of von recklinghausen's disease. it is proposed that this recurrence represents progression from a benign to a malignant acoustic nerve-sheath tumor, an event that is extremely rare outside the clinicopathological context of neurofibromatosis.
increased expression of the multidrug-resistance gene in undifferentiated sarcoma. we analyzed multidrug-resistance gene (mdr1 gene) expression in a patient with undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver using the cloned cdna for the mdr1 gene. tissue samples were available at the time of initial diagnosis and of two intracranial relapses after chemotherapy with a regimen including doxorubicin and teniposide. the level of mdr1 gene expression was increased sevenfold in the intracranial tumor at the time of first relapse and 11-fold at the second relapse. this case may be an example of acquired multidrug resistance associated with overexpression of the mdr1 gene.
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis. six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large, placoid, yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas. all eyes had vitreitis. all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining. five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis. all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions. the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis. modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus (hiv) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture. three of the four patients tested positive for hiv.
inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver. inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver is an extremely rare entity. because of its unusual clinical presentation and confusing histologic picture, a diagnosis of malignancy is frequently made. thus the surgeon is closely involved with the case and extensive procedures are not uncommon. however, this lesion is benign and will even regress spontaneously, making radical surgical procedures contraindicated. the difficulty lies in establishing an accurate diagnosis and the histologic pitfalls of this particular process. conservative therapy can then be applied, avoiding surgical morbidity.
dna flow cytometry of colorectal carcinoma: correlation of dna stemlines with other prognostic indices. dna flow cytometry (fcm) was performed on paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of 38 surgically resected colorectal carcinomas (crc). forty-seven percent of tumors exhibited aneuploidy and 53% were diploid. seventy-two percent of patients in the aneuploid but only 35% in the diploid group were alive after a mean follow-up of 30.7 and 28.8 months (p = 0.01), and 5-yr survival of 56.7% and 11.7%, respectively (p less than 0.05). the site of tumor location, dukes' stage, and serum cea level did not predict a certain dna stemline. however, irrespective of the ploidy pattern, a serum cea level greater than 5.0 was associated with a higher mortality and poor 5-yr survival (p less than 0.005). similarly, advanced dukes' stage was associated with higher mortality (p less than 0.05). forty-six percent of the patients with lesions that were dukes' b2 or advanced stage received adjuvant therapy. eighty-five percent of this subgroup of patients died; 18% of these patients had aneuploid tumors. the role of fcm in the assessment of prognosis of crc deserves further clinical evaluation in a randomized control trial.
misperceptions of comprehension difficulties of stroke patients by doctors, nurses and relatives. doctors, nurses and relatives involved with 30 recently aphasic stroke patients were asked to predict how the patient would perform on a comprehension test. results show that not only do doctors, nurses and relatives underestimate the receptive disability of these patients, but they also illustrate a lack of agreement between health professionals. implications for management are considered.
elective resection of 332 abdominal aortic aneurysms in a southern west virginia community during a recent five-year period. this study analyzed 33 variables that might potentially affect outcome in a series of 332 consecutive elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repairs in a southern west virginia community. one of the interesting features of this series was that the repairs were done by 22 surgeons with varying degrees of experience. the mortality and complication rates were compared for various potential risk factors by both univariant methods (chi 2, fisher's exact, and student t tests) and multivariant methods of analysis. our early mortality (2.1%) and postoperative complication rates were consistent with those of other series. with multiple linear regression models, five factors were selected as significant independent risk factors associated with an increasing number of postoperative complications: the number of blood transfusions (p less than 0.0001), left renal vein ligation (p less than 0.0001), the presence of greater than 50% renal artery stenosis (p = 0.0012), the lesser experience of the surgeon (p = 0.0203), and the history of prior cardiac catheterization (p = 0.0245). the only factor statistically correlated with mortality rate was an increased number of postoperative complications (p less than 0.0001). neither postoperative complications nor mortality rate was found to be significant and independently influenced by other demographic, clinical, or operative factors. it is tempting to speculate that surgeons with less experience might be well served to refer patients with significant renal artery stenosis and coronary artery disease. our mortality and complication rates were not increased by performing preoperative angiography and therefore prudent surgeons may find this helpful in selecting patients for safer repair.
fibronectin-related substance located in the chief cells of human and rat gastric mucosa. a novel substance located in the chief cells of human and rat gastric mucosa, which was detected immunologically by either polyclonal or monoclonal antihuman fibronectin (fn) antibodies, is reported. all three polyclonal antihuman fn antibodies used in this study reacted immunohistologically exclusively with the chief cells. monoclonal antibody against c-terminal peptide or cell binding peptide reacted clearly with the human chief cells, but monoclonal antibodies against fn n-terminal and midmolecule failed to react with the cells. western blot analysis of the rat gastric mucosal extract with polyclonal antihuman fn antibody showed that this substance has a molecular weight of about 70,000 da. therefore, this substance appears to be a fragment containing the c-terminal peptide of whole molecule fn and thus in the present study is named fn-related substance (fnrs). in a further study with ethanol-induced ulcer model of the rat, the physiological significance of fnrs was examined. the fnrs decreased remarkably, in a dose-dependent manner, in the fundic mucosa of the rats that ingested ethanol. the fnrs appeared to be associated with development of mucosal damage and repair, subsequently playing, in part, an important role in the gastric mucosal protection mechanism.
magnetic resonance imaging in neurological disorders. to investigate the role of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in neurological disorders, 115 children were studied in two groups. group a (78 patients) was studied by paired computed tomography and mri cranial scans. group b (37 patients) was studied by paired computed tomography assisted myelography (ctm) and mri spinal scans. in group a, the scans were generally equivalent for supratentorial tumours and for investigating fits, hydrocephalus, benign intracranial hypertension, and cerebral atrophies, but mri scanning was superior for posterior fossa tumours and cysts. in group b, mri scans were superior for intramedullary spinal tumours, spinal dysraphic problems with tethering or syrinx, and were complementary to ctm in diastematomyelia.
inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth in the brain. suppression of endothelial cell turnover by penicillamine and the depletion of copper, an angiogenic cofactor. microvascular proliferation, a hallmark of malignant brain tumors, represents an attractive target of anticancer research, especially because of the quiescent nonproliferative endothelium of the normal brain. cerebral neoplasms sequester copper, a trace metal that modulates angiogenesis. using a rabbit brain tumor model, normocupremic animals developed large vascularized vx2 carcinomas. by contrast, small, circumscribed, relatively avascular tumors were found in the brains of rabbits copper-depleted by diet and penicillamine treatment (cdpt). the cdpt rabbits showed a significant decrease in serum copper, copper staining of tumor cell nuclei, microvascular density, the tumor volume, endothelial cell turnover, and an increase in the vascular permeability (breakdown of the blood-brain barrier), as well as peritumoral brain edema. in non-tumor-bearing animals, cdpt did not alter the vascular permeability or the brain water content. cdpt also inhibited the intracerebral growth of the 9l gliosarcoma in f-344 rats, with a similar increase of the peritumoral vascular permeability and the brain water content. cdpt failed to inhibit tumor growth and the vascularization of the vx2 carcinoma in the thigh muscle or the metastases to the lung, findings that may reflect regional differences in the responsiveness of the endothelium, the distribution of copper, or the activity of cuproenzymes. metabolic and pharmacologic withdrawal of copper suppresses intracerebral tumor angiogenesis; angiosuppression is a novel biologic response modifier for the in situ control of tumor growth in the brain.
problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine. fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine. eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5% (two patients) had severe sensory impairments. all patients had this complication in the early phases of the study. of 297 screws, 17 broke, ie, 5.7%. these breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients (21%). in patients with spondylolisthesis, the degree of slip correction averaged 53% postoperatively, which decreased to 35% at the 1-year follow-up. slip angle was maintained after correction. pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis. the surgeon must be fully trained in methodology. it is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage.
relationship of 4f2 antigen with local growth and metastatic potential of squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. the 4f2 antigen is a cell-membrane glycoprotein which arises early in the g0-g1 phases of the cell cycle. this molecule is present in all established human cell lines and most malignant human cells. the authors used an indirect immunophosphatase method to study 50 squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx and ten lymph-node metastases, corresponding to six primary tumors, for 4f2 expression. the tumors showed several patterns of 4f2 staining which were correlated with different behaviors and prognoses of the neoplasms. three different patterns (no staining, peripheral staining, and diffuse 4f2 expression) are described as are their relationships with metastatic behavior of the carcinomas. tumors with metastases were found only in the third group (p = 0.0001). these results led to the following conclusions: (1) the 4f2 antigen is present in squamous cell carcinomas; (2) its distribution reflects the tumor-spreading pattern; and (3) it correlates with differentiation and metastatic behavior.
pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies in patients with chronic cardiovascular and obstructive lung disease in the netherlands. differences in pneumococcal anticapsular antibody concentrations were assessed among patients with various chronic disorders and among young (25-35 years of age) and older adults (55-65 years). antibody concentrations were determined by elisa, using the whole 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine as antigen. no differences in mean or distribution of serum antibody concentrations were found among young adults (either healthy or asthmatic) or among older adults (healthy or with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease). each group included individuals with low antibody levels. therefore, the enhanced susceptibility to pneumococcal infections reported for some groups at risk, that is, elderly individuals and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease, cannot be attributed solely to low anticapsular antibody concentrations.
injection or heat probe for bleeding ulcer. a prospective randomized trial was performed to compare the efficacy of endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment in actively bleeding peptic ulcers. emergency endoscopy in 1758 patients over an 18-month period identified 132 patients with active ulcer bleeding. they were randomized to receive either endoscopic epinephrine injection or heat probe treatment. after endoscopy, the patients were transferred to the surgical gastroenterology ward and were managed by surgeons unaware of the treatment option. bleeding was initially controlled in 96% by epinephrine injection and in 83% by heat probe (p less than 0.05). there was no significant difference in outcome as measured by transfusion requirement (4.5 units vs. 3.8 units), emergency surgery (20% vs. 22%), hospital stay (8 days vs. 7 days), and mortality (2 vs. 4) between the injection group and the heat probe group. two patients in the heat probe group experienced perforation. we conclude that both endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment are effective in stopping bleeding from actively bleeding ulcers. epinephrine injection is technically easier to perform and has a higher initial success rate.
severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption. a severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption is described. data are presented to show a significant absorption of lidocaine through diseased skin when lidocaine cream is used as a local anesthetic. awareness of this route of intoxication might be important in patients in whom neurologic or psychiatric symptoms develop while large amounts of lidocaine cream are being used.
pleomorphic adenoma in the periphery of the lung. report of a case and review of the literature. a pleomorphic adenoma of the lung recurred after 9 years. the primary tumor consisted mainly of cartilaginous and fibrous elements with a small area of epithelial cell nests, whereas the second one possessed epithelial cell nests with cartilaginous stroma. immunohistochemical studies showed that both tumors had neoplastic cells with immunoreactive s100, keratin, actin, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acid protein-positive cytoplasm. the primary tumor, which was resected from the periphery of the lung, was not connected with the trachea or the bronchus macroscopically. to our knowledge, the literature contains only six reports of pleomorphic adenoma in the lung.
achalasia in the elderly. effects of aging on clinical presentation and outcome. clinical and manometric data from 13 elderly subjects with idiopathic achalasia (mean age 79 +/- 2 years) were compared with findings from younger subjects with the same disease (n = 79) to see if aging altered the presentation and outcome of this motor disorder. fewer elderly subjects complained of chest pain (27% vs 53%), and the pain was significantly less severe (p less than 0.01). other presenting features (including sex, duration of symptoms, and presence and severity of dysphagia) did not differ between the groups. across all patients, age weakly and inversely correlated with residual postdeglutitive lower esophageal sphincter; (les) pressure (r = -0.34), and residual pressure was significantly lower in the older subjects (8.0 +/- 1.3 mm hg vs. 11.9 +/- 0.8 mm hg; p = 0.02). no differences in basal les pressure or esophageal-body contraction amplitudes were present between the groups. initial success with pneumatic dilation was similar in the two subject groups, but the number of older subjects available for analysis was too small to draw strong conclusions. these results indicate that aging decreases the elevation of les residual pressure that occurs with achalasia. as elderly achalasia patients also present with less chest pain, the findings may be interrelated.
the effect of flunarizine on essential tremor. we investigated the effect of flunarizine treatment (10 mg/d) in 17 subjects with essential tremor in a double-blind placebo-controlled design. tremor was assessed by clinical scoring, tremographic recordings, and subjective rating by subjects. of the 15 subjects who completed the study, 13 showed improvement. we conclude that flunarizine is effective treatment for essential tremor.
short-term effect of hepatic arterial versus portal venous reperfusion on energy levels of liver tissue. the hepatic artery and the portal vein blood vary in flow, oxygenation, and hormonal content. it was uncertain which blood supply has a greater effect on the recuperative process of the hepatocytes in the ischemic liver during the initial reperfusion. the ability of the liver cells to restore its energy phosphates is related to the viability of the liver. this study was designed to determine the differences of the high energy phosphate in the liver predicated upon whether reflow was first provided by either the hepatic artery or the portal vein followed by subsequent reperfusion from both vessels. the recovery of atp upon 10 min of only hepatic arterial reperfusion after 15 min of total ischemia was much slower compared to the portal venous reperfusion only. it may be undesirable, therefore, to reperfuse the liver with hepatic arterial blood first immediately after warm liver ischemia.
elective resection for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon. from 1966 to 1987, 177 consecutive patients were operated on electively for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon. the indications for surgery were: colovesical fistula (n = 12), suspicion of residual abscess (n = 39), two or more previous attacks of acute inflammation (n = 52), chronic symptoms (n = 72) and suspicion of carcinoma (n = 2). an abscess was found at operation in 76 patients (43 per cent) and this was extracolic with local peritonitis in 52 patients (29 per cent). an unsuspected abscess was found in 25 of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms. colonic resection with primary anastomosis was performed in 95 per cent of the 177 patients and in 94 per cent of those 52 patients with an extracolic abscess. there were no postoperative deaths and no clinical anastomotic leakages. long-term results were very good in 85 per cent of the 177 patients and in 82 per cent of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms. the results of this series suggest that a one-stage procedure can be safely performed with some technical precautions in most patients operated on electively for diverticular disease, even if an extracolic abscess is found. the good long-term results in patients operated on for chronic symptoms suggest that such symptoms should be taken into account with respect to surgical indications.
penetrating craniocerebral trauma. the authors review the pathophysiology of penetrating and perforating cranial wounds. radiologic evaluation includes computed tomography and angiography. operative technique and perioperative critical care are discussed, with special emphasis on the control of the intracranial pressure. other problems such as fluid and electrolyte disorders and nutrition are discussed in relation to neurosurgery.
results of transsphenoidal extirpation of craniopharyngiomas and rathke's cysts. fourteen patients undergoing transsphenoidal extirpation of craniopharyngiomas or rathke's cysts underwent endocrinological evaluation before and after surgery. one patient died during the procedure because of uncontrollable arterial bleeding. the other patients were followed for up to 16 years (average, 8.5 years). one patient had recurrence of tumor 12 years after surgery. another patient, the only one operated on because of a recurrent craniopharyngioma after previous radiation therapy, died 2 years after the transsphenoidal operation. no patient recovered pituitary functions that had been lost before surgery. one patient, who had an isolated growth hormone deficiency, and another, who had panhypopituitarism with sustained antidiuretic hormone secretion, had no change postoperatively from their preoperative endocrine status. the other 11 patients lost pituitary function and required pharmacological replacement of one to four pituitary hormones.
duodenogastric reflux and gastric histology after cholecystectomy with or without sphincteroplasty. sixteen patients who had undergone cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty, 14 cholecystectomized patients and ten control patients were studied to evaluate whether differences existed in duodenogastric reflux and whether these were related to morphological damage of the gastric mucosa. duodenogastric bile reflux during fasting was evaluated by measuring the concentration of total bile acids (by an enzymatic method) and single bile acids in the gastric juice by high performance liquid chromatography. the damage was evaluated histologically by systematic endoscopic biopsy of the antrum and body of the stomach. there was a statistically significant difference in fasting bile reflux between the three groups (kruskal-wallis test, p less than 0.001), and the group that underwent cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty had a significantly higher median value than the cholecystectomized group (p less than 0.05) and the control group (p less than 0.01). the distribution of chronic antral atrophic and superficial gastritis was different in the three groups (chi 2 test, p less than 0.005). chronic atrophic gastritis was associated with cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty (p less than 0.01), while chronic superficial gastritis was more frequent in cholecystectomized patients. these results suggest that there may be more duodenogastric reflux after cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty than after cholecystectomy alone, and that there may be a correlation between the amount of duodenogastric reflux and the severity of mucosal damage.
effects of hydralazine and prostaglandin e1 on regional myocardial function in the ischemic canine heart. the effects of hydralazine and prostaglandin e1 on regional myocardial function were studied in dogs. sixteen dogs were randomly assigned to one of two drug treatment groups of eight dogs each. the first group (g1) was treated with 0.4 mg/kg hydralazine administered as a bolus. the second group (g2) received prostaglandin e1 given as an infusion for a total dose of 0.8 micrograms/kg. regional myocardial function was assessed through the measurement of myocardial segment shortening during systole. we call this index percent systolic shortening (%ss). an ischemic heart preparation was created by partial occlusion of coronary blood flow. the degree of induced ischemia was determined by following the reduction in %ss. hydralazine reduced %ss of the ischemic myocardium while increasing the cardiac index, stroke volume index, and coronary blood flow. prostaglandin e1 increased %ss, cardiac index, and stroke volume index in the ischemic heart preparation. hydralazine, therefore, induced dissociation between global ventricular function and regional myocardial function whereas prostaglandin e1 did not. the present findings emphasize that evaluation of vasoactive drugs should consider their effects on regional myocardial function as well as on global hemodynamics.
medical management of congestive heart failure. the syndrome of congestive heart failure can result from a variety of cardiac disorders of which left ventricular dysfunction is the most common. the clinical presentation is determined by the interaction between cardiac dysfunction and a series of compensatory mechanisms that are activated throughout the body. therapy for this disorder is best approached through an understanding of this complex relationship and an appreciation for the influence of preload, afterload, and contractility on cardiac performance. recent important advances in therapy include the use of combined diuretic therapy, a better understanding of the value of the digitalis glycosides, and evidence that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors can relieve symptoms and prolong life. more intensive therapy earlier in the course of congestive heart failure appears to have some clinical benefit. the use of ace inhibitors during this phase may delay progression of the underlying left ventricular dysfunction. future therapy will be influenced by the results of ongoing trials that are testing both new agents and expanded indications for drugs that are currently available.
kidney transplantation in patients aged sixty years and older. outcomes of renal transplantation were reviewed for 26 transplants performed in 25 patients 60 years of age or older between 1985 and 1989. three grafts were from family donors and 23 were from cadaver donors. twenty-one were first transplants and five were retransplants. cyclosporine was used as primary immunosuppression and azathioprine and prednisone were administered to most patients. overall patient and graft actuarial survival rates were 79% and 71%, respectively, at both 1 and 3 years. patients (n = 14) free of both diabetes and cardiac disease (low risk) had 1- and 3-year patient and graft survival rates of 91% and 84%, respectively. conversely, high-risk patients (n = 12) had patient and graft survival rates at 1 and 3 years of 67% and 58%, respectively. early deaths (less than or equal to 6 months) were caused by sepsis (two patients) or cardiac events (three patients), and four of the five were in high-risk patients. irreversible rejections and serious infectious complications were not as common as steroid-induced diabetes, which occurred in five patients. this experience suggests that kidney transplantation can be done safely and successfully in patients older than 60 years of age and should be the treatment of choice for low-risk patients in this category.
clinical problems in follow-up of patients after conservative surgery and radiotherapy. patients treated with conservative surgery and radiotherapy for early-stage breast carcinoma are at risk of developing an ipsilateral breast recurrence for a long period. fortunately, few such patients present with an inoperable recurrence or simultaneous distant metastases. salvage rates are high and may be improved by early detection. although usually unambiguous, physical examination of the treated breast may reveal changes attributable to surgery and radiotherapy that can mimic a recurrent cancer. there also is substantial overlap in radiologic appearance between benign and malignant lesions. it may be necessary to perform a biopsy when there is a question of recurrence. careful life-long follow-up of patients thus is a critical part of their care.
a prospective study of aspirin's effect on red blood cell loss in cardiac surgery. the effect of aspirin on red blood cell (rbc) loss and blood transfusions was evaluated prospectively in 100 consecutive patients, with normal bleeding times, undergoing elective coronary artery bypass (cabg) surgery. patients taking 85-325 mgm of aspirin daily up to or within 48 hours of surgery (the "aspirin" group) were compared to patients not taking aspirin or those who had discontinued aspirin at least 4 days before surgery (the "no-aspirin" group). rbc loss was determined by measuring preoperative and postoperative rbc volume using risa and 51cr techniques. there were no significant differences, respectively, between the aspirin and no-aspirin groups for: rbc loss (1158 +/- 67 ml vs 1129 +/- 47 ml, p = 0.737), chest tube drainage (925 +/- 31 ml vs 844 +/- 70 ml, p = 0.553), and gm% discharge hemoglobin (hgb) (9.94 +/- 0.32 vs 9.49 +/- 1.4, p = 0.0148). strict criteria for blood transfusions were employed: (1) intraoperative hematocrit of less than 21%, (2) postoperative hgb of less than 7 gm% for patients less than 70 years old and (3) postoperative hgb of less than 8 gm% for patients greater than 70 years old. there were no significant differences, respectively, between the aspirin and no-aspirin groups for units of blood transfused (1.32 +/- vs 1.21 +/- 0.20, p = 0.843) and patients not receiving transfusions during the entire hospitalization (44% vs 50%). patients taking 85-325 mgm of aspirin with a normal bleeding time undergoing elective cabg did not have increased rbc loss or increased transfusion requirements. these results indicate it is not necessary to delay elective cabg surgery for the purpose of discontinuing aspirin.
ocular pathologic features of arteriohepatic dysplasia (alagille's syndrome). arteriohepatic dysplasia (alagille's syndrome), an autosomal dominant condition involving jaundice caused by a developmental scarcity of intrahepatic bile ducts, has characteristic cardiovascular, skeletal, facial, and ocular features that distinguish it from extrahepatic biliary atresia and an array of other neonatal intrahepatic cholestatic disorders. two children who died of this syndrome had prominent schwalbe's rings with attached iris strands characteristic of axenfeld's syndrome. additional histologic findings of iris atrophy and stromal nodules, however, made the designation axenfeld-reiger's syndrome more appropriate. pigmentary retinopathy, degeneration of bruch's membrane, and prominent lipofuscin deposition in the ciliary muscle noted in one of the patients were not regarded as primary changes of alagille's syndrome, but were believed to be secondary to acquired deficiency of the fat-soluble vitamins a and e. early recognition of the ocular changes in arteriohepatic dysplasia is helpful in establishing the proper diagnosis to avoid unnecessary abdominal surgery and institute vitamin therapy.
clue cells in predicting infections after abdominal hysterectomy. seventy women scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy were examined for the presence of clue cells in the vaginal discharge in an attempt to identify a possible risk group for development of postoperative infection. seven of 20 women (35%) with clue cells developed vaginal cuff infections or wound infections, compared with four of 50 women (8%) without clue cells (p less than .01). women with bacterial vaginosis, diagnosed by air-dried vaginal smears, are therefore at risk for postoperative infection.
the recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation. applications of muscle flap closure. perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment. thirteen consecutive patients (aged 27 to 74 years; mean, 48 years) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage. three risk factors were identified: preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy, resection for recurrent carcinoma, and inflammatory bowel disease. a total of 19 muscle flaps (11 gracilis, five gluteal thigh, two gluteus maximus, and one rectus abdominis) were used to close these wounds. during an average 3.5-year follow-up, four (31%) minor complications and one (8%) recurrence were noted to occur. muscle flaps provide safe, effective, single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds.
preliminary report: the antegrade continence enema. the principles of antegrade colonic washout and the mitrofanoff non-refluxing catheterisable channel were combined to produce a continent catheterisable colonic stoma. the intention was that antegrade washouts delivered by this route would produce complete colonic emptying and thereby prevent soiling. the procedure has been successfully carried out in five patients with intractable faecal incontinence.
relative accuracy of three scintigraphic methods for determination of right ventricular ejection fraction: a correlative study with ultrafast computed tomography. the accuracy of three scintigraphic methods for determination of right ventricular ejection fraction (rvef) was tested in 29 patients using ultrafast computed tomography (ufct) as the gold standard. rvef measurements by the ecg-gated first-pass approach showed excellent correlation with the ufct results (r = 0.96, y = 0.06 + 0.91x), while both the standard gated acquisition blood-pool imaging (r = 0.71, y = 0.14 + 0.59x) and the nongated first-pass curve approach (r = 0.63, y = 0.18 + 0.37x) significantly underestimated rvef. the error can be ascribed to partial inclusion of the atrial activity in the region assigned to the right ventricle. the tricuspid valve plane was found to move by a distance equal to 9%-33% (mean = 20%) of the right ventricular long-axis between systole and diastole. this translational motion was more pronounced with higher efs.
estrogen replacement and coronary artery disease. effect on survival in postmenopausal women. the relationship among postmenopausal estrogen use, coronary stenosis, and survival was examined retrospectively in 2268 women undergoing coronary angiography. the patients were selected for study if their age was 55 years or older at the time of angiography or if they had previously undergone bilateral oophorectomy. postmenopausal estrogen use in 1178 patients with coronary artery disease (greater than 70% stenosis) and 644 patients with mild to moderate coronary artery disease (5% to 69% stenosis) was compared with 446 control subjects (0% stenosis) using life-table analysis. over 10 years of follow-up, there was no significant difference in survival among patients initially free of coronary lesions on arteriography who had either never used (377) or ever used (69) estrogens. among patients with mild to moderate coronary stenosis, 10-year survival of those who had never used estrogens was 85.0% and it was 95.6% among 99 "ever users." survival was 60.0% among those with more than 70% coronary stenosis who had never used estrogen and it was 97.0% among 70 ever users. the "never users" group were older (65 vs 59 years), had a lower proportion of cigarette smokers (40% vs 57.1%), a higher proportion of subjects with diabetes (21.7% vs 12.9%) and hyperlipidemia (58% vs 44%), and approximately equal numbers of hypertensives (56.0% vs 54.3%). cox's proportional hazards model was used to estimate survival as a function of multiple covariables. estrogen use was found to have a significant, independent effect on survival in women. we conclude that estrogen replacement after menopause prolongs survival when coronary artery disease is present, but it has less effect in the absence of coronary artery disease.
patient-controlled analgesia in children. we report our experience in introducing patient-controlled analgesia at the royal hospital for sick children, glasgow. twenty-five children used the technique after orthopaedic or general surgery using the graseby system. the pump was loaded with 1 mg/kg morphine sulphate in 50 ml. a bolus dose of 0.02 mg/kg (1 ml) and a lockout interval of 10 minutes were the initial settings. the dose used, pain and sedation scores, respiratory rate and arterial oxygen saturation were recorded. ages ranged from 5-15 years (mean 9.6) and the method was used for a mean of 48 hours after operation. morphine requirements averaged 26 (micrograms/kg)/hour (sd 10.6). pain control was good and sedation minimal. adverse effects were few and minor. education of patients, parents and nurses is essential for its success and safety. the technique is an effective and safe means of providing good quality analgesia in school age children.
intermittent claudication, heart disease risk factors, and mortality. the whitehall study in the whitehall study, 18,388 subjects aged 40-64 years completed a questionnaire on intermittent claudication. of these subjects, 0.8% (147) and 1% (175) were deemed to have probable intermittent claudication and possible intermittent claudication, respectively. within the 17-year follow-up period, 38% and 40% of the probable and possible cases, respectively, died. compared with subjects without claudication, the probable cases suffered increased mortality rates due to coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease, but the mortality rate due to noncardiovascular causes was not increased. possible cases demonstrated increased mortality rates due to cardiovascular and noncardiovascular causes. this difference in mortality pattern may be due to chance. possible and probable cases still showed increased cardiovascular and all-cause mortality rates after adjusting for coronary risk factors (cardiac ischemia at baseline, systolic blood pressure, plasma cholesterol concentration, smoking behavior, employment grade, and degree of glucose intolerance). intermittent claudication is independently related to increased mortality rates. it is not a rare condition, and simple questionnaires exist for its detection. the latter can be usefully incorporated in cardiovascular risk assessment and screening programs.
predictors of long-term cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease (cad) undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) were analyzed in a series of 637 consecutive patients. the average age was 59 +/- 11 years in 472 men and 165 women. diabetes mellitus, previous myocardial infarction and unstable angina were present in 119 (19%), 261 (41%) and 305 (47%) patients, respectively. angiographically, 460 patients had 2-vessel and 177 patients had 3-vessel cad. the left ventricular contraction score was greater than or equal to 12 in 55 patients. angiographic success (less than 50% residual stenosis) was achieved in 85% of the 1,343 narrowings and clinical success was obtained in 526 (83%) of the 637 patients. complete revascularization was obtained in 177 (34%) of 526 successful patients. procedure-related complications resulted in death in 9 patients (1.4%), in q-wave myocardial infarction only in 6 patients (0.9%) and in emergency bypass surgery in 44 patients (6.9%) (of whom 10 had q-wave myocardial infarction). follow-up for greater than or equal to 1 year and up to 6 years after ptca was obtained in 608 (95%) of the 637 patients. to determine the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival, 28 clinical, angiographic and procedural variables were analyzed by cox proportional-hazards regression. the estimated 5-year survival after ptca was 88 +/- 2% in successful patients and 77 +/- 5% in patients in whom ptca was unsuccessful (p less than 0.001). when clinical success was forced into the cox regression, the left ventricular contraction score of greater than or equal to 12, diabetes mellitus and age greater than or equal to 65 years showed additional adverse effects on survival.
cardiorespiratory effects of antagonism of diazepam sedation with flumazenil in patients with cardiac disease. the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil is currently under intense study. despite much clinical experience, no detailed invasive hemodynamic studies of its use in cardiac patients have been published. in the present study, hemodynamic and respiratory variables were measured in 10 cardiac patients undergoing catheterization of the right and left sides of the heart, before and after sedation with intravenous diazepam, and after reversal of sedation with flumazenil. a sleep dose of diazepam (12.2 +/- 5.1 mg, mean +/- sd) caused only slight decreases in mean arterial pressure (103 +/- 12 to 98 +/- 14 mm hg; p less than 0.05), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (13.2 +/- 6.3 to 11.7 +/- 6.6 mm hg; p less than 0.05), and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (20.8 +/- 7.5 to 17.3 +/- 10.0 mm hg; p less than 0.05), with no significant changes in respiratory gas homeostasis. intravenous flumazenil (0.22 +/- 0.07 mg) resulted in spontaneous awakening and return to full orientation, yet caused no significant alteration in either hemodynamic or respiratory variables measured. reversal of diazepam-induced sedation by flumazenil in cardiac patients appears safe and effective.
pivoting larynx--an unusual clinical observation at laryngoscopy. rigid oesophagoscopy was planned in the investigation of a young patient with dysphagia. during laryngoscopy for tracheal intubation an unusual pivoting manoeuvre was required to see the vocal cords. although the initial diagnostic investigations were unhelpful, follow up directed at explaining the clinical observations led to an eventual diagnosis of anterior tubercles of c6, which explained the observation and accounted for the dysphagia.
effect of sleep and sleep deprivation on ventilatory response to bronchoconstriction. to characterize ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction during sleep and to assess the effect of prior sleep deprivation on ventilatory and arousal responses to bronchoconstriction, bronchoconstriction was induced in eight asthmatic subjects while they were awake, during normal sleep, and during sleep after a 36-h period of sleep deprivation. each subject was bronchoconstricted with increasing concentrations of aerosolized methacholine while ventilatory patterns and lower airway resistance (rla) were continually monitored. the asthmatic patients maintained their minute ventilation as rla increased under all conditions, demonstrating a stable tidal volume with a mild increase in respiratory frequency. inspiratory drive, as measured by occlusion pressure (p0.1), increased progressively and significantly as rla increased under all conditions (slopes of p0.1 vs. rla = 0.249, 0.112, and 0.154 for awake, normal sleep, and sleep after sleep deprivation, respectively, p less than 0.0006). chemostimuli did not appear to contribute significantly to the observed increases in p0.1. prior sleep deprivation had no effect on ventilatory and p0.1 responses to bronchoconstriction but did significantly raise the arousal threshold to induced bronchoconstriction. we conclude that ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction, unlike extrinsic loading, are not imparied by the presence of sleep, nor are they chemically mediated. however, prior sleep deprivation does increase the subsequent arousal threshold.
angiotropic intravascular large-cell lymphoma (malignant angioendotheliomatosis): report of a case and review of the literature. we present a case of angiotropic large-cell lymphoma and review the literature in order to define the neurologic features of this rare disorder. this is the first report of gadolinium-dtpa imaging in angiotropic large-cell lymphoma that demonstrates infarcts of multiple ages, as well as striking meningeal enhancement. angiotropic large-cell lymphoma should be suspected in patients with clinical evidence of small and large cerebral vessel disease and diagnosis requires skin, liver, renal, meningeal, or brain biopsy. single modality treatment, using either radiation therapy or steroids, has been ineffective, and new findings of a lymphomatous origin of this neoplasm suggest that combination chemotherapy may be indicated.
fracture-dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with an ulnar motor nerve lesion: case report. we report a case of delayed diagnosis of a fracture dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with a resultant ulnar motor nerve lesion. the patient achieved marked improvement after fracture reduction and ulnar neurolysis.
relationship of clinical features with psychological status in primary fibromyalgia. clinical features and psychological status determined by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory (mmpi) in 103 patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome (pfs) were analyzed by univariate and multivariate techniques to determine if clinical features were related to psychological status or were intrinsic to pfs per se. the central features of pfs, e.g., number of pain sites, number of tender points, fatigue, and poor sleep, were independent of psychological status. however, discriminant analysis identified 4 variables--patient-reported depression, anxiety, stress, and pain severity--which together predicted 3 mmpi subgroups with an accuracy of 55% (p less than 0.001); the only musculoskeletal feature--pain severity--alone provided an accuracy of only 34% (p greater than 0.05). these data suggest a new concept, that the central features of fibromyalgia are independent of the psychological status and are more likely related to the pfs itself. however, pain severity may be influenced by psychological factors.
disappearance of renin-induced proteinuria by an ace-inhibitor: a case report. a 55-year-old man developed renovascular hypertension that was characterized by high plasma renin activity. this was accompanied by nephrotic range proteinuria. treatment with nifedipine and furosemide lowered the blood pressure to normal values, but proteinuria persisted. however, treatment with an ace-inhibitor brought resolution of the proteinuria, suggesting a role for angiotensin ii in urinary protein loss.
management of an extensive tracheoesophageal fistula by cervical esophageal exclusion. giant tracheoesophageal fistulae occurring in ventilator-dependent patients usually result in significant ventilatory embarrassment. cervical exclusion of the fistula can safely control the fistula and quickly restore adequate ventilation to these critically ill patients.
genetic mapping of "lubag" (x-linked dystonia-parkinsonism) in a filipino kindred to the pericentromeric region of the x chromosome. "lubag" is an x-linked disorder causing dystonia and parkinsonism that has only been described in families from the philippines, principally from the island of panay. we have established linkage between the disease phenotype "lubag" and dna markers which span the xp11.22-xq21.3 region by using a large filipino family with 8 affected men in three generations. these dna markers define an interval of about 20 centimorgans in the pericentromeric region of the x chromosome as the most likely site of the disease locus xdpd (x-linked dystonia-parkinsonism). xdpd has a maximum multipoint log likelihood ratio score (zmax) of about 4.6 over the interval from xq12 to xq21.31 (dxs159-dxys1x). the co-occurrence of dystonia and parkinsonism in lubag and in other known disorders suggests there may be a common pathogenetic mechanism. identification of the genetic defect in this family may provide an important clue toward understanding the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of both dystonia and parkinsonism.
primary carcinoma of the gallbladder. seventy-four patients with primary carcinoma of the gallbladder, diagnosed over 18 years from 1969 to 1987, were studied retrospectively. the most common presenting complaint was abdominal pain, followed by jaundice and weight loss. surgery was performed in 61 patients and of these patients, only two had accurate preoperative diagnosis which was made by ultrasonography. twelve of the 13 patients who were treated medically had the disease diagnosed at autopsy. one of the 13 patients had the diagnosis of gallbladder cancer by the findings of ultrasonography and abdominal computed tomography (ct) scanning. the resectability of the surgically managed group was 36.1%, and the majority of patients with advanced tumors (82.2%) were deemed unresectable. the most common histologic type was adenocarcinoma. liver was the organ most commonly invaded (76.5%) by direct extension and/or metastases, followed by regional lymph nodes (52.9%). the overall 5-year survival rate was 5.4%. a high index of suspicion of the disease, intraoperative examination of gallbladder specimen, and earlier, more aggressive surgical treatment may improve patient survival.
postoperative ectopic craniopharyngioma. case report. the case of an ectopic craniopharyngioma arising from a seed of tissue deposited along the operative track is reported. the uniqueness of this lesion is addressed. ideal therapy and controversies regarding radiation therapy of craniopharyngiomas are discussed in light of this new variation in recurrence.
impaired sympathetic nerve function in the inflamed rat intestine. the effect of intestinal inflammation on norepinephrine release from the myenteric plexus in the trichinella spiralis-infected rat was assessed. longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations were preincubated with [3h]norepinephrine and release was evoked by electrical field stimulation and kcl administration. preincubation of preparations with desipramine or pretreatment of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine significantly suppressed the uptake and evoked release of [3h]norepinephrine; electrical field stimulation but not kcl-evoked release of [3h] norepinephrine was sensitive to tetrodotoxin. these results confirm the presence of functioning sympathetic nerves in the preparations. t. spiralis infection was associated with significant suppression of both electrical field stimulation and kcl-evoked release of [3h]norepinephrine on the sixth day postinfection, and the suppression persisted 100 days postinfection. no suppression of [3h]norepinephrine release was seen in the worm-free and noninflamed ileum of infected rats. suppression of [3h]norepinephrine release from the jejunum of infected rats was attenuated by treatment with betamethasone (3.0 mg/kg sc daily). these results are consistent with the hypothesis that intestinal inflammation suppresses the release of norepinephrine from the myenteric plexus in the trichinella-infected rat.
effect of electrocautery on wound healing in midline laparotomy incisions. the effect of electrocautery on midline fascial wound healing was studied in 108 sprague-dawley rats. midline wound tensile strength was significantly reduced in fascia incised with the coagulation current compared with the cutting current or scalpel. in addition, tissue necrosis and inflammation as well as adhesion formation between the incision and abdominal viscera were more extensive in animals with incisions made using coagulation current. the results of the study indicate that the use of electrocautery coagulation current is associated with increased tissue damage and a significant reduction in the tensile strength of healing wounds. the contribution of electrocautery to wound complications in patients needs further evaluation.
comparison of outcomes of double and single lung transplantation for obstructive lung disease. the toronto lung transplant group. single lung transplantation has recently been applied with success in patients with obstructive lung disease. such patients were previously managed by bilateral pulmonary transplantation. between november 1986 and january 1990, 18 patients underwent transplantation for obstructive lung disease in our center. eleven double lung transplants and seven single lung transplants were performed in patients having a mean age of 43.4 and 44.1 years, respectively. operative death occurred in two of 11 double lung transplantations and one of seven single lung transplantations. each patient underwent preoperative and 3-month postoperative pulmonary function tests, arterial blood gas analyses, nuclear lung scans, and 6-minute walk tests. there was no difference in the preoperative values for any of these parameters. double lung recipients had significantly higher forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced vital capacity than single lung recipients. however, the ratios of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to vital capacity were not different. arterial oxygen and carbon dioxide tension were not different between the two procedures. whereas double lung transplantations caused a slight preponderance of perfusion to the right lung, the transplanted lung in single lung recipients received a mean of 79.5% +/- 12.3% of predicted flow and only 61.6% +/- 5.0% of predicted ventilation. three-month 6-minute walk distances were markedly improved in both groups, with double lung recipients achieving 573.0 +/- 44.7 m in comparison with the 528.0 +/- 43.0 m achieved by the single lung recipients. single lung transplantation is a satisfactory option in patients with obstructive lung disease and might offer significant advantages to the older patient population, in which risk of double lung transplantation is high.
observations on the pathophysiology of nelson's syndrome: a report of three cases. nelson's syndrome is generally regarded as an unusual sequela of primary bilateral adrenalectomy when performed for cushing's disease. it is classically defined by cutaneous hyperpigmentation, considerably elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone (acth) levels, and an enlarged sella turcica. in this report, we present three cases initially treated by transsphenoidal sellar exploration for cushing's disease. in two of these cases, remission of hypercortisolism did not occur after the initial pituitary exploration. a microadenomectomy was performed in one case and, in the other, no microadenoma was found. in both, nelson's syndrome occurred after adrenalectomy. a second transsphenoidal operation and radiotherapy were required to control tumor growth. in another case, transsphenoidal adenomectomy of an acth-secreting tumor initially led to a remission of hypercortisolism for 4 years, but recurrent cushing's disease necessitated adrenalectomy, and again nelson's syndrome occurred. the documentation of a pre-existing acth-secreting basophilic pituitary microadenoma before adrenalectomy, as seen in two of our cases, has not been previously reported, and these observations of "non-classical" courses have major implications for the pathophysiology of nelson's syndrome.
predictors of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients. objective: to determine which factors are the best predictors of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients. design: prospective cohort study. setting: the burn and trauma icus at harborview medical center from march to september 1989. patients: children were eligible for the study if they were less than 15 yr old, were intubated for greater than 12 hr, and did not have underlying cardiopulmonary disease. the study included 25 patients with 30 extubations. risk factors assessed: age, type of injury (burn vs. trauma), location of intubation ("field" vs. hospital), endotracheal tube size, length of intubation, and presence of an airleak around the tube at the time of extubation at 30 cm h2o pressure. main outcome measure: moderate to severe postextubation stridor requiring treatment with racemic epinephrine, helium-oxygen, reintubation, or tracheostomy. results: treatment for postextubation stridor was required after 11 (37%) of 30 extubations, with five reintubations and one tracheostomy. the best predictor of postextubation stridor was absence of an airleak at the time of extubation (sensitivity 100%, positive predictive value 79%, p less than .001), followed by type of injury (facial burn vs. all others; sensitivity 64%, positive predictive value 88%, p less than .001). after controlling for these two factors, no other factor studied was a significant predictor of postextubation stridor. conclusion: in pediatric trauma patients, mechanism of injury (facial burn vs. other) and absence of an airleak at the time of extubation are the strongest factors predicting postextubation stridor. patients with one or both risk factors require special attention to airway management.
sinistral (left-sided) portal hypertension. between 1953 and 1988, 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis (svt), 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension (sph) were treated at our institution. svt was identified at autopsy in nine patients. twelve additional patients presented with sph: bleeding esophageal varices, svt and normal hepatic function. svt was caused by pancreatic neoplasm (5), chronic pancreatitis (5), and pancreatic pseudocyst (2). svt was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography, splenoportography, computerized tomography, and ultrasonography. gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy (10) and barium swallow (2). splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients. three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy. two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization, one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy. one splenectomized patient continued to bleed. no further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years. sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function. splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis. splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice.
ventricular arrhythmias in ischemic heart disease. ventricular arrhythmias remain the leading cause of death from coronary artery disease. this review summarizes current thinking in several areas relating to the pathophysiology, prognosis, and therapy of ventricular arrhythmias associated with acute and chronic coronary artery disease syndromes. the experimental basis of arrhythmias in the setting of acute myocardial ischemia and chronic myocardial infarction is described, stressing the important pathophysiologic differences between these two conditions. the effects of the autonomic nervous system as a key modulator of ischemic arrhythmogenesis are discussed. insights, derived from endocardial mapping studies, into the nature of ventricular tachycardia in humans with chronic myocardial infarction are described, including implications for risk stratification and therapy to prevent arrhythmia recurrence. current therapeutic principles are discussed in the management of ventricular arrhythmias associated with coronary artery disease, including pharmacologic approaches, surgical and catheter ablation, and automatic implantable cardioverting and defibrillating devices.
an intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis: case report. the authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors, who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater, spinal cord, retroperitoneum, pericardium, and mediastinum. systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic weber-christian disease, except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis. immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis x, because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not t-zone histiocyte markers. differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed.
primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands. sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare. this article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland (eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years; mean age, 42 years). the 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows: three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas, rhabdomyosarcomas, fibrosarcomas, and osteosarcomas. four patients experienced disease recurrences, and seven patients developed metastases. seven patients died of their sarcomas, with a mean survival time of 30 months. four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years (one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and neurosarcoma). prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm, type of sarcoma, and histologic grade. in this respect, salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts.
inverse correlation between plasma vitamin e and mortality from ischemic heart disease in cross-cultural epidemiology. essential antioxidants were determined in plasma of middle-aged men representing 16 european study populations, which differed sixfold in age-specific mortality from ischemic heart disease (ihd). in 12 populations with "common" plasma cholesterol (5.7-6.2 mmol/l) and blood pressure, both classical risk factors lacked significant correlations to ihd mortality, whereas absolute levels of vitamin e (alpha-tocopherol) showed a strong inverse correlation (r2 = 0.63, p = 0.002). evaluating all populations, cholesterol and diastolic blood pressure were moderately associated, but their correlation was inferior to that of vitamin e. in stepwise regression and multiple regression analysis, mortality was predictable to 62% by lipid-standardized vitamin e, to 79% by vitamin e and cholesterol, to 83% after inclusion of lipid-standardized vitamin a (retinol), and to 87% by all the above parameters plus blood pressure. thus, in the present study the cross-cultural differences of idh mortality are primarily attributable to plasma status of vitamin e, which might have protective functions.
myocardial metabolism of fluorodeoxyglucose compared to cell membrane integrity for the potassium analogue rubidium-82 for assessing infarct size in man by pet potassium loss from damaged myocardial cells is linearly related to cpk enzyme loss reflecting extent of necrosis. the potassium analog, rubidium-82 (82rb), is extracted after i.v. injection and retained in viable myocardium but is not trapped or washed out of necrotic regions. to compare myocardial cell metabolism with membrane dysfunction as indicators of necrosis/viability, 43 patients with evolving myocardial infarction and coronary arteriography had positron emission tomography using fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) and the potassium analog 82rb. percent of heart showing fdg defects and 82rb washout on sequential images indicating failure to retain the potassium analogue were visually assessed and quantified by automated software. infarct size based on rubidium kinetics correlated closely with size and location on fdg images (visual r = 0.93, automated r = 0.82), suggesting that loss of cell membrane integrity for trapping the potassium analog 82rb parallels loss of intracellular glucose metabolism, both comparable quantitative markers of myocardial necrosis/viability.
failure of nutritional recovery after total gastrectomy. malnutrition is reported to be an inevitable consequence of total gastrectomy, although there are few data to support this contention. six patients of median age 63 years underwent total gastrectomy for malignancy. at follow-up (median 45 months, range 25-60 months) each patient was clinically tumour-free and underwent dietary assessment, faecal fat and nitrogen measurement and routine haematological testing. protein and fat stores, measured by neutron activation analysis and the tritiated water dilution technique, were compared with the same measurements made before operation and with predicted values. mean (s.d.) dietary intake (2224(381) kcal day-1 and 81(15)g protein day-1) met the patients' estimated requirements. mean(s.d.) serum albumin and faecal nitrogen values were normal but there was notable steatorrhoea (21(17) g day-1). body composition measurements revealed profound deficiencies of body-weight (p less than 0.02), protein (p less than 0.01) and fat (p less than 0.02) before operation which were not corrected by an apparently curative total gastrectomy (p less than 0.05), although further deterioration was prevented.
abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 6 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. to determine the biologic significance of the structural rearrangements of the long arm of chromosome 6(6q) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) at diagnosis, we studied 412 consecutive children whose leukemic cell chromosomes had been completely banded and identified 45 (11%) children with this abnormality. the 45 cases were divided into del(6q) only (n = 11), del(6q) and numerical abnormalities (n = 4), del(6q) and structural abnormalities (n = 23), and 6q translocations (n = 7). the breakpoints of del(6q) were subgrouped: del(6)(q15q21) in 11 cases, del(6) (q13q21) in six, del(6)(q21q23) in four, del(6)(q15) in four, del(6)(q15q23) in three, and other deletions in 10 cases. notably, all these deletions encompassed the 6q21 band, suggesting that this might be the locus of a recessive tumor suppressor gene, the absence of which contributes to malignant transformation or proliferation. among the seven children with 6q translocations, a previously unidentified nonrandom translocation, t(6;12)(q21;p13) was noted in two cases with an early pre-b immunophenotype. clinical features and event-free survival were similar among children with or without 6q abnormalities. overall, children with 6q abnormalities were less likely than those without the abnormality to have a pre-b immunophenotype (p = .03). t-cell immunophenotypes were equally represented in cases with or without 6q abnormalities. however, all four children with del(6q) and a 12p abnormality had early pre-b all and all three children with del(6q) and a 9p abnormality had a t-cell immunophenotype. the lack of specificity for a particular immunophenotype may imply that the gene or genes affected by 6q abnormalities are broadly active in the multistep process of lymphoid leukemogenesis. the relatively high frequency of microscopically visible del(6q) indicates the need for molecular studies to identify cases with submicroscopic deletions.
large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery. the performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (eptfe) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated. eptfe grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair. sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively. one hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted. the transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach. there was a one-month mortality of 2.8% in elective and 20% in emergency cases. median follow-up was 26 months. specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula. no graft rupture, degeneration, dilatation, pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up. the aortic eptfe prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied.
cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor in 190 patients. over 10 years, 475 patients with isolated lateral neck masses were evaluated: 190 with lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor (lnup), 188 with neck lymphomas, 78 with benign tumors, 10 with sarcomas, and 9 with chemodectomas. this study focused on the patients with lnup. only 86 patients were treated with surgery (plus radiotherapy). other patients were treated with radiotherapy (84) or chemotherapy (13) or had no treatment (7). for the overall population, failures in the neck occurred in 51% of the patients and distant metastases in 27%, while primary tumors appeared in 16%. survival rates at 3, 5, and 10 years were 27%, 19%, and 7%, respectively, for the overall population and 45%, 35%, and 19%, respectively, for the surgical group. the diagnosis and therapeutic approach had a direct effect on neck control; failure in the neck occurred in 7 of 47 patients (15%) when fine needle aspiration and radical neck dissection with radiotherapy were performed, in 5 of 12 patients (42%) when fine needle aspiration and modified neck dissection with radiotherapy were used, in 5 of 12 patients (42%) when adenectomy diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment were performed, and in 6 of 11 patients (54%) when diagnosis by incisional biopsy was performed prior to admission, despite subsequent radical neck dissection and radiotherapy treatment. in our opinion, panendoscopy and fine needle aspiration should be the first-line diagnostic approach. when cytologic diagnosis proves impossible, the second-line approach must consist of cervical exploration with frozen section examination and excisional biopsy, followed by immediate appropriate treatment. in cases of lnup, radical neck dissection seems to be preferable.
expression of placental alkaline phosphatase in gastric and colorectal cancers. an immunohistochemical study using the prepared monoclonal antibody. the authors developed monoclonal antibodies (moab) against human placental alkaline phosphatase (plap). four specific moab reacting only with plap and two nonspecific moab reacting equally with isozymes of alkaline phosphatase (hepatic, intestinal, and placental) were obtained. immunohistochemical staining with the specific moab showed that the cell membrane and cytoplasm of cancer cells were stained in gastric and colorectal carcinoma. the incidence of plap positivity was 23% (25 of 107) of all gastric carcinomas. among gastric carcinomas, the 42% (13 of 31) positivity of highly differentiated carcinoma (papillary adenocarcinoma and well-differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma) was a significantly higher rate than that found in poorly differentiated carcinoma (poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma and signet-ring cell carcinoma, five of 41, 12%). the incidence of plap positivity was 11% (four of 35) in colorectal carcinoma. in contrast, gastric adenoma, intestinal metaplasia, and noncancerous tissue adjacent to cancer did not show staining. these results indicated that expression of plap was apt to occur in more highly differentiated gastric carcinoma and was highly specific for carcinoma in the gastrointestinal tract, although its incidence was not high.
anomalous macular vessels: case report and review of the recent japanese literature. we examined a 19-year-old woman with large macular vessels who had temporarily impaired visual acuity. the anomalous macular vessels had arteriovenous shunts and were associated with abnormal capillary networks. in a review of the recent japanese literature, we found another eight patients with anomalous macular vessels who had undergone fluorescein angiography. we prefer the term anomalous macular vessels to describe this condition.
protection of the small intestine against irradiation by means of a removable prosthesis. in radiation therapy of tumors, several techniques are used to prevent injury of the intestinal loops. their purpose is to drive the intestine out of the external beam. understanding the disadvantages they present, a temporary prosthesis which effectively protects the small bowel, and is easy to remove, has been developed. the device is a 600 to 1,000 ml, silicone rubber, expandable balloon. when implanted in the pelvis or retroperitoneal cavity, and filled, this balloon displaces the intestinal loops out of the pelvic irradiation field. it may remain either filled or empty between each irradiation session. due to its particular elliptical shape, once empty, the balloon can be removed through a 3 cm incision under local or peridural anesthesia at the completion of radiotherapy. eleven patients with recurrent (8) or primary (3) cancer have been implanted. the protective effect has been evaluated on successive biologic tests, performed during treatment. no problem related to the prosthesis, no alteration of the biologic tests, nor bowel injury have been observed after several months follow-up. this device is suitable for preventing intestinal complications during therapy, allowing a higher dose of radiations in some cases.
femoro-popliteal and femoro-distal bypass: a comparison between in situ and reversed technique. the present report compares the in situ technique with that using the reversed vein for femoropopliteal bypass. in 1986 the in situ technique was introduced at our clinic as the preferred method for femoropopliteal bypass with the lower anastomosis below the knee or femorodistal bypass. forty patients operated with the in situ technique were compared with an equal number of patients operated with the reversed technique 1983-1985. the two groups were comparable regarding concomitant cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, preoperative ankle-brachial index and level of distal anastomosis. patency after 6 months was significantly higher (84%) for the in situ grafts compared to reversed veins (49%). the difference was mainly caused by a significantly higher patency for in situ grafts anastomosed to infrapopliteal arteries. despite better patency rates in the in situ group limb salvage at 6 months was the same in both groups. operating time was also similar in both groups. it is concluded that the in situ technique is superior to the reversed technique, at least in infrapopliteal reconstructions. the superior patency rate and the technical advantages without apparent disadvantages are the basis for the recommendation to use the in situ technique for femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypass.
indications for the surgical treatment of osteomas of the frontal and ethmoid sinuses. sixty-one patients with an osteoma of the frontal or ethmoid sinuses have been studied. the following indications for surgical removal of these osteomas are suggested: osteomas extending beyond the boundaries of the frontal sinus, if enlarging, if localized in the region adjacent to the nasofrontal duct, if signs of chronic sinusitis are present, osteomas of the ethmoid sinuses, irrespective of their size and if patients with osteomas complain of headache and other causes of headache have been excluded. the operation of choice is the osteoplastic flap operation.
automatic rifle injuries: suicide by eight bullets. report of an unusual case and a literature review. a 25-year-old man committed suicide by shooting himself with eight bullets fired from a military rifle set on automatic. this rifle has two firing modes: an automatic mode and a self-loading, single-shot mode. using this case as an example, some important aspects of firearm injuries are discussed with special emphasis on those points that are relevant to automatic military rifles and most applicable to forensic pathology practice. some of the pathologic features of firearm wounds are reviewed and the role of the pathologist is discussed. lastly, the most important points that help the pathologist to determine the type or nature of a firearm death--that is, whether it is an accident, homicide, or a suicide--are discussed. classically, the number of the firearm wounds is used to differentiate suicide from homicide. as in the case reported here, however, when an automatic rifle or a military rifle set on automatic is used, the number of wounds is not a reliable indicator of the type of death.
localization of the human angiogenin gene to chromosome band 14q11, proximal to the t cell receptor alpha/delta locus. the gene encoding angiogenin, a potent inducer of blood vessel formation, has been localized within the human genome. it is present as a single copy per haploid genome and is located on chromosome 14, on the basis of discordancy analysis of human-rodent hybrid cell lines. this localization was refined to 14q11 by in situ hybridization of an angiogenin probe to metaphase chromosomes prepared from both normal human lymphocytes and rpmi 8402 cells. the results from the rpmi 8402 cells also establish that the angiogenin gene resides proximal to a translocation breakpoint within the t cell receptor alpha/delta locus and therefore upstream from that locus. an avaii rflp, present at a frequency of 29% in an unselected collection of human placental dnas, was identified in the coding region of the gene and results from a single silent transversion.
electrocardiographic and antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous amiodarone: results of a prospective, placebo-controlled study. the antiarrhythmic efficacy of intravenously administered amiodarone was examined in a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled study that involved 77 patients after coronary artery bypass surgery. amiodarone was given after surgery in a loading bolus of 300 mg for 2 hours followed by 1200 mg every 24 hours for 2 days and 900 mg every 24 hours for the next 2 days. amiodarone suppressed both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias within 12 hours after the start of therapy. particularly, the incidence of atrial fibrillation (5% vs 21% in the control group; p less than 0.05) and of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (3% vs 16%; p less than 0.05) was reduced by amiodarone. heart rate was slowed (p less than 0.001) and repolarization--as judged by jtc interval--was prolonged compared with the control group (p less than 0.01). in two patients, amiodarone infusion was stopped because of excessive qtc prolongation. no detrimental hemodynamic effects of the drug were observed. thus the intravenous administration of amiodarone appears to be suitable for patients in whom rapid suppression of symptomatic supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias is warranted in the presence of left ventricular dysfunction.
immunity to and frequency of reinfection with respiratory syncytial virus. to better understand the duration of immunity against respiratory syncytial virus (rsv) and the role of serum antibodies to the surface glycoproteins, f and g, in susceptibility to reinfection, 15 adults with previous natural rsv infection were challenged with rsv of the same strain group (a) at 2, 4, 8, 14, 20, and 26 months after natural infection. by 2 months about one-half and by 8 months two-thirds of the subjects became reinfected. each challenge resulted in infection in at least one-fourth of the subjects. within 26 months 73% had two or more and 47% had three or more infections. the duration of immunity tended to increase after two closely spaced infections. higher neutralizing, f and ga antibody levels before challenge correlated significantly with protection against infection. however, even in subjects with the highest antibody levels, the risk of reinfection was 25%. specific nasal iga antibody titers did not correlate significantly with protection. this suggests that humoral neutralizing, f, and g antibodies correlate with resistance to reinfection, but protection is far from complete and is of short duration.
squamous carcinoma metastatic to the sternum. a 63-year-old man had a 10 x 16-cm sternal mass 18 months after a second aortocoronary bypass operation. the resected lesion was a metastatic tumor of squamous histology. no primary tumor was found. the diagnostic work-up and treatment options are presented.
anisocoria in the pigmentary dispersion syndrome we studied four patients with anisocoria and the pigmentary dispersion syndrome. in all patients, the larger pupil was on the side of the greater iris transillumination. the amount of anisocoria was between 0.5 and 1.5 mm and was the same in both the light and dark. there was no blepharoptosis, and all pupils dilated normally with cocaine. all of the patients were young men with myopia, and one patient had increased intraocular pressure.
endometrial carcinoma: the relevance of cervical cytology. in patients with endometrial carcinoma, preoperative identification of poor prognostic factors is helpful in planning therapy. extended surgical staging, including pelvic and periaortic node dissection, is indicated in patients with deep myometrial invasion or high-grade tumor, or when other risk factors for extrauterine spread are present. in this study, cervical cytology was reviewed in 86 patients with endometrial carcinoma, all of whom underwent surgical staging, to correlate the cytologic results with surgical and pathologic findings. cervical cytology was normal in 20 patients (23%), whereas suspicious or malignant endometrial cells were present in 23 and 43 cases (27 and 50%), respectively. suspicious or malignant cervical cytology was associated with deeper myometrial invasion (p = .011), higher postoperative tumor grade (p = .006), positive peritoneal washings (p = .012), and more advanced stage by international federation of gynecology and obstetrics criteria (p = .024). when compared with patients with normal cervical cytology, those who had malignant endometrial cells had over twice the risk of deep myometrial invasion (67 versus 30%), twice the risk of grade 2 or 3 tumor (60 versus 30%), and three times the risk of positive peritoneal washings (33 versus 10%). seventy-four percent of patients with malignant cervical cytology were stage ic or more. in contrast, 70% of patients with normal cervical cytology were stage ia or ib. patients with endometrial carcinoma who have malignant endometrial cells detected by cervical cytology are at increased risk of having a deeply invasive, high-grade, advanced-stage tumor, and therefore are more likely to require extended surgical staging.
uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea. unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications. we report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year. snoring was abolished in 18 (36 per cent) and substantially reduced in the remainder. obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, identified in 11 patients pre-operatively, was reduced in severity in all but three. troublesome complications were seen in 18 (36 per cent) patients, namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five (10 per cent), pharyngeal dryness in 11 (22 per cent) and loss of taste in five (10 per cent). one patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction. a cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection. the importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated.
psychosomatic factors in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents. psychosomatic factors, sympathoneural and sympathoadrenal as well as cardiovascular mechanisms, were studied in 24 patients 18-24 years of age with borderline hypertension, 50 age-matched normotensive offspring of hypertensive parents, and 49 controls with no family history of hypertension. they were compared by projective and questionnaire-based psychological tests and their circulatory and neurohormonal reactivity to mental (stroop color-word conflict test and arithmetic test) and physical stressors (orthostasis and bicycle ergometry test) were measured. borderline hypertensive subjects externalized aggression less (p less than 0.05) but internalized it more (p less than 0.05) and were more submissive (p less than 0.05) when compared with controls. offspring of hypertensive parents showed a similar but weaker pattern. both risk groups reported more positive interactions with their parents (genetic risk subjects versus controls, p less than 0.05; borderline hypertensive patients versus controls, p = 0.08) and had higher state-anxiety levels (p less than 0.05). there were more subjective symptoms of beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated functions (e.g., tachycardia, tremor) in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents, elevated heart rates (analysis of repeated measures, p less than 0.001), and enhanced plasma norepinephrine concentrations (p less than 0.05) when compared with controls. these findings in subjects at risk for the development of hypertension suggest that psychosomatic factors and sympathetic overactivity are involved in the early phase of hypertension.
holter monitoring of ventricular arrhythmias in a randomised, controlled study of intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias attributed to streptokinase treatment in acute myocardial infarction is not well defined. holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours in 81 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction randomised in a ratio of 2:1 to intravenous streptokinase 1.5 x 10(6) iu (n = 55) or placebo infusion (n = 26) 6.7 hours (mean) after the onset of symptoms. no episodes of ventricular fibrillation were recorded. for the whole 24 hour period and during the first three hours after the start of treatment the incidence and frequency of ventricular arrhythmias were similar in the patients randomised to streptokinase and to placebo. but when the results in patients randomised "early" after the onset of symptoms of suspected acute myocardial infarction were analysed separately the frequency of abnormal complexes, pairs, runs, and repetitive arrhythmias seemed to be higher in patients allocated to streptokinase. this may reflect arrhythmias associated with reperfusion.
pulmonary resection combined with cardiac operations. surgical management of patients with concomitant critical cardiac disease and resectable lung lesions is controversial. during a 7-year period (1982 to 1988), 21 patients underwent combined cardiac and pulmonary operations. patients had cardiac symptoms only; the lung lesions were found on preoperative chest roentgenograms. the pathological diagnosis was established in only 2 of the patients before operation. all underwent concurrent pulmonary resection during cardiac operations requiring extracorporeal circulation. the pulmonary operations included 17 wedge resections and four lobectomies. the final diagnoses in 8 patients with stage i non-small cell lung cancer included epidermoid carcinoma (4), adenocarcinoma (3), and bronchoalveolar carcinoma (1). postoperatively, 1 patient required a permanent pacemaker and 1 patient died. the actuarial survival at 5 years for all patients who underwent combined procedures was 95%. the 5-year survival for the 8 patients with lung cancer was 88% compared with 100% for those with benign pulmonary pathology (p = 0.172). this experience suggests that combining pulmonary resection with cardiac operations is safe and offers a favorable prognosis to a select group of patients.
antivenom therapy in russell's viper bite. bleeding and renal failure are the two main manifestations responsible for the high morbidity and mortality in untreated russell's viper bite victims. this study was an effort to find prognostic factors and a practical therapeutic approach for the care of such patients. early detection of abnormalities in the clot quality test and/or evidence of systemic bleeding followed by immediate correction of the clotting defects using specific antivenom can reduce morbidity in russell's viper envenomation.
changes in the basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells from alcoholic patients--a quantitative golgi study. although a variety of pathological changes have been described in the brains of chronic alcoholic patients, there have been no studies which have addressed the question of alterations in cortical neuronal dendritic arborisation. loss of neurons from the superior frontal gyrus and shrinkage of neurons from both the superior frontal gyrus and motor cortex has been documented in chronic alcoholic patients; these areas were chosen for this study. using a modified rapid golgi technique the basal dendritic arborisation of layer iii pyramidal neurons was compared in 15 male alcoholic patients and 15 age-matched male controls. all parameters measuring basal dendritic arborisation were significantly less in the alcoholic cases for both the superior frontal and motor cortices. changes in the arbor are in the terminal branches, which is consistent with other models of dendritic plasticity. such changes may explain both permanent and reversible functional deficits in chronic alcoholic patients.
unexpected, spontaneous conversion of a family of rats, from low-leukemic to high-leukemic inbred line. from a nucleus of sprague-dawley rats received in 1960 from the national institutes of health, we have raised, by brother-to-sister mating, a colony of these animals. the incidence of leukemia in 313 females and 316 males was 1.6% and 1.2%, respectively. about 3 years ago, we observed a relatively high incidence of leukemia in offspring of a healthy female, no. 1. among the offspring of this female, observed through 12 successive generations, there were 17 leukemias among 44 females (38.6%) and 21 leukemias among 40 males (52.5%), developing at ages varying from 6 to 11.6 months. the most frequent form of leukemia observed was acute myeloid, with a high count of myeloblasts, promyelocytes, and myelocytes; lymphatic form was relatively rare but was observed occasionally; pronounced anemia was common. in most instances, on autopsy, the pathological picture was that of an enlarged spleen and liver, with the exception of those few animals that developed lymphatic leukemia, with thymic and mesenteric lymphoid tumors. we have no satisfactory explanation for this sudden, unexpected conversion of a part of our sprague-dawley rat colony from low-leukemic to high-leukemic inbred line. as a working hypothesis, the possibility of a spontaneous activation of a hypothetical oncogenic virus should be considered. the high leukemic c58 inbred line of mice originated in a similar, unexplained manner [macdowell, e.c. & richter, m.n. (1935) arch. pathol. 20, 709-724]. however, leukemia developing in mice was subsequently found to be caused by a transmissible virus, whereas, thus far at least, no evidence of a transmissible virus has been found in leukemia developing spontaneously in rats.
alcohol-dependent unilateral vestibular impairment persisting after a closed head injury. a 20-year-old man suffered a closed head injury followed by symptoms of right-sided labyrinthine concussion with complete clinical recovery within 3 weeks. episodic vertigo and ataxic gait occurred after the ingestion of small amounts of alcohol over the next 2 years. electro-oculography revealed a right-sided peripheral type vestibular lesion, only after taking alcohol. this was interpreted as an alcohol-induced impairment of central compensation following an incomplete recovery from right-sided labyrinthine trauma.
diagnosis of magnesium-induced diarrhea background. there is no specific method of diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea. therefore, the frequency and clinical importance of diarrhea caused by magnesium are unknown. the purposes of this study were to establish a method for diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea and to apply it to patients with chronic diarrhea. methods. we measured fecal output of soluble magnesium and fecal magnesium concentration in 19 normal subjects with formed stools (15 collection periods), with non-magnesium-induced diarrhea (36 collection periods), and with diarrhea induced by magnesium hydroxide alone (11 collection periods) or in combination with phenolphthalein (3 collection periods), and in 359 patients with chronic diarrhea. results. the upper limits of fecal output of soluble magnesium and fecal magnesium concentration in normal subjects were 14.6 mmol per day and 45.2 mmol per liter, respectively. when normal subjects had diarrhea due to the ingestion of magnesium hydroxide alone or in combination with phenolphthalein, fecal magnesium output was always abnormally high. for each millimole increase in fecal magnesium output, fecal weight increased by approximately 7.3 g. the fecal magnesium concentration was very high when magnesium was the only cause of diarrhea but only moderately elevated when diarrhea was induced by magnesium hydroxide plus phenolphthalein. biochemical and clinical evidence indicated that excessive ingestion of magnesium was an important cause of chronic diarrhea in 15 of the 359 patients with chronic diarrhea (4.2 percent), if not the only cause. conclusions. quantitative fecal analysis for soluble magnesium is an accurate method of diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea. some patients with chronic diarrhea ingest excessive amounts of magnesium (in antacids or food supplements), and physicians may fail to discover this before embarking on an expensive and invasive diagnostic evaluation.
cytologic patterns in juice from human pancreatic transplants: correlation with histologic findings in the graft. in 19 patients who had undergone pancreatic transplantation with temporary exteriorization of the pancreatic juice, graft tissue became available for histologic examination. in these patients the cytologic patterns in the pancreatic juice were compared with the histologic findings in the graft specimens. in five samples the diagnosis by cytologic studies was rejection. acute rejection was confirmed in all the histologic specimens. in eight cytologic samples, graft pancreatitis was suspected because of the increased amounts of neutrophils, degenerating cells, epithelial cells, monocytes, and some macrophages, with or without necrotic tissue fragments. all eight histologic specimens showed findings characteristic of pancreatitis. in three cytologic samples, bacteria or fungi were observed. histologic examination of these patients showed graft pancreatitis. in four patients the cytologic findings were normal. graft histologic factors were normal in two instances. in one of these grafts there was graft pancreatitis, and in one graft chronic vascular rejection was seen. our study shows that two different pathologic events occurring in the pancreatic graft (i.e., acute rejection and pancreatitis) are reflected by characteristic changes in pancreatic juice cytology.
ultra short-acting intravenous beta-adrenergic blockade as add-on therapy in acute unstable angina. to assess the efficacy and safety of the ultra short-acting beta-blocking agent, esmolol, in acute unstable angina, we administered esmolol to 21 patients who had persistent angina despite conventional medical therapy. following a baseline doppler echocardiographic examination, esmolol was titrated to reduce the rate-pressure product by at least 20%. once the patients had been receiving a maintenance dosage for 30 minutes, doppler echocardiographic studies were repeated. mean esmolol dose at target response was 17 +/- 16 mg/min, with the dosage range of 8 to 24 mg/min. esmolol was effective in alleviating anginal chest pain in 18 of the 21 patients. seven patients eventually underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) and eight had coronary bypass surgery. the remainder were discharged receiving medical therapy including oral beta-blockade. during esmolol therapy, heart rate and blood pressure decreased significantly (86 +/- 14 to 68 +/- 12 beats/min and 125 +/- 16 to 103 +/- 20 mm hg, both p less than 0.001). cardiac output decreased from 5.4 +/- 1.3 to 4.5 +/- 1.1 l/min (p less than 0.001) secondary to a decrease in heart rate as stroke volume remained unchanged. left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 47 +/- 12 to 49 +/- 13 with esmolol therapy, although this change was not statistically significant. both the one third filling fraction as well as e/a ratio (ratio of early-to-late diastolic filling velocities) increased with esmolol therapy (35 +/- 8% to 38 +/- 8% and 0.73 +/- 0.2 to 0.85 +/- 0.23, both p less than 0.005), indicating improvement in left ventricular diastolic function.
intravenous and oral corticosteroids for the prevention of relapse after treatment of decompensated copd. effect on patients with a history of multiple relapses to determine if a regimen of intravenous and oral corticosteroids reduces the relapse rate after treatment of decompensated copd in the ed, 30 patients were studied. forty-five visits in which intravenous and oral corticosteroids were given (t visits) were compared with an equal number of matched visits in which they were withheld (n visits). no differences were noted between t and n visits with respect to clinical findings, laboratory results and other forms of therapy. treatment with corticosteroids reduced the relapse rate within 24 h of discharge. at 48 h, the cumulative relapse rate for t visits (8.9 percent) was significantly lower than for n visits (33.3 percent; p = 0.005). for patients with a history of multiple relapses, a regimen consisting of intravenous and oral corticosteroids reduces the risk of relapse after ed treatment of decompensated copd.
physiology of aging related to outcome in the adult respiratory distress syndrome. thirty-nine patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome (ards) were enrolled in a study to identify potential age-related changes in organ system function that may help explain the apparent association between age and poor outcome in these patients. criteria for enrollment included an arterial po2-to-inspired o2 concentration ratio less than or equal to 200 in a clinical setting consistent with ards. patients were excluded if they were less than 18 yr old, had clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure, were seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus, or had stage ii metastatic lung cancer. patients were divided into two groups: those less than 60 yr old (mean 42 +/- 3 yr, n = 17) and those greater than or equal to 60 yr old (73 +/- 2 yr, n = 16). a group of six patients was analyzed as a separate subset based on a body temperature less than or equal to 97.5 degrees f at enrollment (hypothermic patients, 73 +/- 4 yr old). sepsis was present in 67% of the nonhypothermic patients and in all the hypothermic patients. mortality rates were 12% in the patients less than 60 yr and 69% in the nonhypothermic patients greater than or equal to 60 yr. all the hypothermic patients died. sequential data obtained over 6 days were compared within and between groups. the following results were obtained. 1) the ratio of arterial po2 to inspired o2 fraction was greater and the positive end-expiratory pressure used was significantly less in the patients greater than or equal to 60 yr old compared with the younger group.
benign parotid tumour enucleation--a reliable operation in selected cases. the method of surgical treatment for benign tumours of the parotid gland had not yet been rationalized, but many authors recommend parotidectomy as the most appropriate procedure. a series of 289 operations for parotid swelling is reported; the majority of mixed and warthin's tumours underwent enucleation without either complications or recurrence. the rationale of parotidectomy versus enucleation is discussed but in fast growing, deeply infiltrating and recurrent tumours, parotidectomy appears to be the best choice. in the other group of more commonly occurring tumours, enucleation represents a reliable time saving option.
effects of low perfusate ca2+ concentration on newborn myocardial function after ischemia. a greater dependence on transsarcolemmal ca2+ flux and immaturity of ca2+ sequestration capacity may potentiate ca2(+)-mediated reperfusion injury in the newborn myocardium. the effect of serum ionized ca2+ concentration on left ventricular systolic and diastolic function after ischemia was studied in 5-7-day-old piglets undergoing a 90-minute period of cold-blood cardioplegic arrest. in the control group, ca2+ was maintained at 1.2 mm (group a [n = 6]). the cardioplegic solution and bypass perfusate were modified to achieve a low ca2+ concentration, 0.25 mm, in group b (n = 6). left ventricular pressure-volume loops were acquired by using high-fidelity pressure-sensor-tipped and volume-conductance catheters. ventricular function was assessed from the slope of end-systolic (ees) and end-diastolic (k) pressure-volume relations during transient caval occlusion. both groups showed a significant reduction in ees after ischemia (p less than 0.05). intergroup comparison of ees after ischemia demonstrated a better recovery of the systolic function in the low ca2+ group, 64 +/- 7% versus 49 +/- 6% in the normal ca2+ group (p = 0.05). there was a significant increase in chamber stiffness index in group a (k, 0.48 +/- 0.06 to 0.65 +/- 0.05 ml-1, p less than 0.01) versus no significant change in group b. this study shows 1) the feasibility of acquiring continuous pressure-volume data in neonatal hearts by using a conductance catheter system, and 2) better preservation of systolic function and diastolic compliance in normal newborn myocardium by low ca2+ concentration in the peri-ischemic period.
fragmented atrial activity in patients with transient atrial fibrillation. prediction of atrial fibrillation (af) is very important in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome or in the selection of pacemaker therapeutic modality. in 25 patients with transient af, the response of the atrial activity width to extrastimuli was examined in comparison with 25 patients without af to see if the results could be used as an index of subsequent occurrence of af. programmed electrical stimulation using eight basic stimuli followed by single or double extrastimuli (p1p2 or p1p2p3) were delivered to the high right atrium, and the atrial activities were examined. the prolongation of the atrial activity caused by extrastimuli was termed fragmentation (frg), and it was defined as the prolongation of more than 150% of the basic stimuli. frg zone was defined as the zone of coupling intervals of the extrastimuli (p1p2 or p2p3) that caused frg, and delta max frg was defined as the difference between the widest frg and the atrial wave width during basic stimuli. fragmentation was reproducibly induced by extrastimuli, and there was an inverse relationship between frg duration and the coupling interval of the extrastimuli (p1p2 or p2p3). frg zone and delta max frg were wider and longer in patients with transient af in comparison with the control group for both single and double extrastimuli (p less than 0.001). af inducibility using double extrastimuli was significantly high in patients with af.
molecular biology of atherothrombotic brain infarction. because reduced high density lipoproteins may contribute to atherothrombotic brain infarction, we performed molecular biologic and metabolic studies to characterize high density lipoprotein metabolism with respect to its role in reverse cholesterol transport, to clone the high density lipoprotein receptor, and to determine gene polymorphism for apolipoprotein a-i, the major protein of high density lipoprotein, because altered structure may impair reverse cholesterol transport. for high density lipoprotein metabolism measurements, high density lipoprotein 3 was isolated, purified, and labeled with iodine-125. the radiolabeled high density lipoprotein 3 was reinjected, and daily blood samples were taken for 10 days. synthesis rates and fractional catabolic rates were determined from the specific activities and daily decrements. preliminary data indicate that stroke-prone individuals' fractional catabolic rates for high density lipoprotein 3 are twice those of normal individuals. also, the conversion of high density lipoprotein 3 to high density lipoprotein 2 is reduced in these individuals, suggesting that high density lipoprotein may be abnormally processed in individuals prone to atherothrombic brain infarctions. we surveyed more than 100 patients with carotid stenosis using a 2.2-kb probe for the apolipoprotein a-i gene. a subset of these patients displays polymorphism with restriction enzymes saci or psti. these preliminary findings suggest that gene polymorphism for apolipoprotein a-i may provide a molecular clue of atherothrombic brain infarction.
body surface mapping of high-frequency components in the terminal portion during qrs complex for the prediction of ventricular tachycardia in patients with previous myocardial infarction. to study the clinical significance of terminal qrs high-frequency components for the prediction of ventricular tachycardia, an 87-lead body surface signal-averaged mapping was performed in 21 healthy subjects (control) and in 41 patients with previous myocardial infarction (anterior, 20; inferior, 21). mapping data were analyzed and averaged (129.7 +/- 26.5 beats) for 160 seconds, and the signal-averaged beat was filtered with a bidirectional bandwidth (80-250 hz) digital filter. j-point was determined from the 87-lead rms voltage of nonfiltered qrs. for each lead, we calculated the sum of the absolute value of filtered qrs from 20 msec ahead of the j-point to the j-point (a-20). the body surface distribution of a-20 was expressed as a-20 map. the maxima in a-20 maps were mainly located on the upper sternal region in healthy subjects, on the left anterior chest in patients with previous anterior myocardial infarction, and on the central anterior chest in patients with previous inferior myocardial infarction. in the patients in both the group with anterior myocardial infarction and the group with inferior myocardial infarction, the value of maximum was significantly greater than in the subjects in the control group (0.181 +/- 0.086 and 0.138 +/- 0.048, respectively, vs. 0.075 +/- 0.031 mv.msec; p less than 0.01). in patients with myocardial infarction (n = 41), the value of maximum was significantly greater with ventricular tachycardia (n = 11) than without ventricular tachycardia (n = 30) (0.240 +/- 0.076 vs. 0.130 +/- 0.043 mv.msec; p less than 0.01).
occurrence of human papillomavirus type 16 dna in cutaneous squamous and basal cell neoplasms. sixty-eight cutaneous squamous cell neoplasms (in situ and invasive) and 26 basal cell carcinomas from 89 patients were analyzed for dna sequences homologous to the human papillomavirus (hpv) types found predominantly in the genital tract. thirty-six (53%) of the squamous cell neoplasms contained hpv dna as detected by filter or in situ hybridization analysis. the frequency of detection of hpv dna was dependent on the site of the lesion. of 40 genital squamous cell neoplasms (penile, vulvar, and perianal), 27 (68%) had detectable hpv dna. in 25 of these, the hpv type was 16 or hpv-16-related, which was similar to the results for the squamous cell neoplasms of the finger (hpv dna in 9 of 11 tumors with hpv-16 in seven). none of 16 squamous cell neoplasms from sites other than the genital tract or the finger had detectable hpv dna. hpv dna was detected in one of the 26 basal cell carcinomas (4%). we conclude that, for cutaneous epithelial malignancies, hpv-16 is restricted to squamous cell neoplasms of the genital tract and finger. these data are consistent with venereal transmission of hpv-16 to the periungual region and suggests a role for this virus in the evolution of squamous cell carcinoma at this site.
structural alterations of nerve during cuff compression. whether compression nerve injury is due to ischemia, direct mechanical injury, or both remains unsettled. to assess structural changes of nerve during compression, peroneal nerves of rats were compressed at various pressures for different times, and the structural alterations were stopped by simultaneous in situ and perfusion fixation. the structural changes observed during a few minutes of compression cannot be explained by ischemic injury because the pathologic alterations characteristic of ischemia take many hours to develop and in any case are different from the ones found here. the pressure- and time-related structural changes observed in the present study under the cuff were (i) decrease in fascicular area and increase in fiber density due to expression of endoneurial fluid; (ii) compression and expression of axoplasm, sometimes to the point of fiber transection; (iii) lengthening of internodes; and (iv) obscuration of nodes of ranvier due to cleavage and displacement of myelin and overlapping of nodes by displaced loops of myelin. at the edges of the cuff the changes were (i) increase of fascicular area probably from expressed endoneurial fluid; (ii) widening of nodal gaps, perhaps mainly from translocated axonal fluid; and (iii) disordered structure of axoplasm. we suggest that the process of paranodal demyelination and axonal transection are linked, occur during the act of compression, and are due to shear forces. the initial event is expression of endoneurial fluid, followed by compression and expression of axoplasm and cleavage and displacement of layers of myelin. conceivably, with prolonged cuff compression ischemic injury might be found to be superimposed on mechanical injury.
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett's esophagus after total gastrectomy a 64-yr-old japanese male who underwent a partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer at the age of 21, a total resection of the remnant stomach for a stomal ulcer at age 25, and in whom barrett's esophagus was diagnosed at age 47, was found to have a tumor at the distal esophagus and was operated on by thoracic esophagectomy. the tumor was a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading down to the muscularis propria. the entire esophageal mucosa in the resected specimen was lined by columnar epithelium. this tumor was thought to derive from the barrett's esophageal epithelium.
uneventful delivery following series of successive treatments for virilized cushing syndrome due to adrenocortical carcinoma. a twenty-one-year-old virilized woman with cushing syndrome due to a huge adrenocortical carcinoma was successively treated with trilostane (3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibitor), subsequent adrenalectomy, and postoperative cis-platinum. clinical or biochemical abnormalities peculiar to cushing syndrome gradually subsided, and three and one-half years after the adrenal surgery, the patient delivered a normal female infant. this study points out some of the clinical and biochemical responses of each treatment.
effects of nimodipine on cerebral blood flow and neuropsychological outcome after cardiac surgery. thirty-five patients undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) were allocated randomly in a prospective double-blind study to receive either nimodipine 0.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1 or placebo. cerebral blood flow (cbf) was measured during and immediately after cpb. neuropsychological tests were performed 6 months after surgery to determine any relationship between ischaemic damage and cbf and administration of nimodipine. there were no differences in cbf between the nimodipine (n = 18) and placebo groups (n = 17). significant changes in neuropsychological tests were found in six patients tested 6 months after surgery but there were no conclusive signs of ischaemic damage. the nimodipine-treated group performed better in tests of verbal fluency and visual retention, suggesting that some memory functions were preserved better in this group.
6-[18f]fluoro-l-fucose: a possible tracer for assessing glycoconjugate synthesis in tumors with positron emission tomography. the potential of 6-[18f]fluoro-l-fucose (6-[18f]ffuc) for assessing glycoconjugate synthesis in tumors with positron emission tomography (pet) was investigated. using the tissue sampling method with five tumor models, different time-radioactivity profiles were found: a nearly constant level in lewis lung carcinoma (3ll) and different clearance patterns in others. rapid clearance in normal tissues resulted in preferable uptake ratios for tumor imaging of brain and pancreas. metabolic studies and the l-fucose loading effects on the tissue uptake proved the tracer to be a biochemically active l-fucose analog. imaging of the intracranial rat glioma and 3ll in lungs or hepatomas in mice by autoradiography (arg) and intramuscular vx-2 carcinoma in rabbits by pet was demonstrated. using double-radionuclide arg, similar distribution images of 6-[18f]ffuc and 14c-l-fucose but different tumor-to-liver uptake ratios were found. a metastasis model seemed to show a higher uptake of both tracers as compared to a primary tumor model.
introducing the 'walk-up' flap. reconstructive oral and maxillofacial surgeons often find the need for additional soft tissue even when a myocutaneous flap has been previously placed. this article introduces the principles, technique, and results of 32 "walk-up" muscle flaps derived from existing myocutaneous flaps. the anastomotic vascular ingrowth at the original myocutaneous flap's distal end permits its proximal detachment and axial vessel ligation to rotate the proximal two thirds to a tissue-deficient site. in our experience at the university of miami, these flaps have been predictable (97% viable transfer rate), have provided vascular soft tissue in deficient areas, and have been skin grafted at their surface to increase oral lining or skin cover, among several other uses.
recurrent or metastatic disease in select patients with adrenocortical carcinoma. aggressive resection vs chemotherapy. in a retrospective, nonrandomized comparison of patients with first recurrence of adrenocortical cancer, 18 patients were treated with chemotherapy (primarily mitotane) and 15 patients were treated with surgical resection plus similar chemotherapy. surgical resection of recurrent adrenocortical cancer was often extensive, with morbidity in 20% of patients and no mortality. mitotane therapy was ineffective at controlling tumor growth. median survival from the time of diagnosis for all patients was only 23 months and no patient was cured. disease-free interval greater than 12 months was associated with prolonged survival, but it only occurred in six patients (18%), with a similar frequency in both treatment groups. surgical resection of recurrent disease was associated with prolonged survival from the time of first recurrence. the potential benefit of this resection was evident in the 5 patients (33%) who were able to live greater than 5 years from the time of first recurrence with improvement in symptoms and signs of hypercortisolism. although no patient with recurrent adrenal cancer could be cured, resection of recurrent disease was associated with a slight prolongation of survival and good palliation of cushing's syndrome.
a randomized, controlled trial of prophylactic ganciclovir for cytomegalovirus pulmonary infection in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplants; the city of hope-stanford-syntex cmv study group background. cytomegalovirus (cmv)-associated interstitial pneumonia is a major cause of death after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. we conducted a controlled trial of ganciclovir in recipients of bone marrow transplants who had asymptomatic pulmonary cmv infection. we also sought to identify risk factors for the development of cmv interstitial pneumonia. methods. after bone marrow transplantation, 104 patients who had no evidence of respiratory disease underwent routine bronchoalveolar lavage on day 35. the 40 patients who had positive cultures for cmv were randomly assigned to either prophylactic ganciclovir or observation alone. ganciclovir (5 mg per kilogram of body weight intravenously) was given twice daily for two weeks and then five times per week until day 120. results. of the 20 culture-positive patients who received prophylactic ganciclovir, 5 (25 percent) died or had cmv pneumonia before day 120, as compared with 14 of the 20 culture-positive control patients (70 percent) who were not treated prophylactically (relative risk, 0.36; p = 0.01). no patient who received the full course of ganciclovir prophylaxis went on to have cmv interstitial pneumonia. four patients treated with ganciclovir had maximal serum creatinine levels greater than or equal to 221 mumol per liter (2.5 mg per deciliter), as compared with none of the controls (p = 0.029). of the 55 cmv-negative patients who could be evaluated, 12 (22 percent) had cmv pneumonia--a significantly lower rate than in the untreated cmv-positive control patients (relative risk, 0.33; p = 0.003). the strongest predictors of cmv pneumonia were a lavage-fluid culture that was positive for cmv and a cmv-positive blood culture, both from specimens obtained on day 35. conclusion. in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow, asymptomatic cmv infection of the lung is a major risk factor for subsequent cmv interstitial pneumonia. prophylactic ganciclovir is effective in preventing the development of cmv interstitial pneumonia in patients with asymptomatic infection.
multiple myeloma: vmcp/vbap alternating combination chemotherapy is not superior to melphalan and prednisone even in high-risk patients. the efficacy of alternating vincristine, melphalan (m), cyclophosphamide, prednisone/vincristine, carmustine, doxorubicin, and prednisone (vmcp/vbap) polychemotherapy was compared with the m and prednisone (mp) regimen as induction treatment in multiple myeloma (mm). three hundred four mm patients entered this study between march 1983 and july 1986; the analysis was performed in december 1989. the treatment groups did not show significant differences with respect to major prognostic factors. median overall survival was 33.8 months. in the vmcp/vbap and mp arms, after 12 induction chemotherapy cycles, 59.0% and 47.3% (p less than .068) of the patients achieved an m component reduction greater than 50%. no significant difference was observed in the two treatment arms in terms of remission duration (21.3 v 19.6 months, p less than .66) and survival (31.6 v 37.0 months, p less than .28). patients younger than 65 years did not show any advantage from the alternating polychemotherapy. at diagnosis, the plasma cell labeling index (li) and serum beta-2 microglobulin (beta 2-m) were evaluated in 173 and 183 patients, respectively. a significantly reduced survival was observed for patients with li greater than or equal to 2% (16.4 months) or beta 2-m greater than or equal to 6 mg/l (20.4 months). even in these poor-risk subgroups, vmcp/vbap was not superior to mp.
subnormal parasympathetic activity after cardiac transplantation. heart period variability (standard deviation of 120 consecutive rr or pp intervals) was used to assess baseline parasympathetic activity in 18 patients with congestive heart failure before and after orthotopic cardiac transplantation, and was compared to that of 16 age-matched control subjects. mean heart period variability (+/- standard error of the mean) was significantly greater (p less than 0.05) in control subjects (58 +/- 5 ms) than in the patients at any time before or after transplantation. heart period variability of innervated recipient atria did not change significantly early (1 to 4 weeks) after transplantation (16 +/- 2 to 24 +/- 5 ms; p = 0.11), but increased significantly between weeks 15 and 37 after transplantation (30 +/- 5 ms, p less than 0.002 versus before transplantation). a stepwise regression model (r2 = 0.35; p = 0.01) showed that heart period variability was directly related to time after transplantation and inversely related to systolic arterial pressure after transplantation and degree of rejection. heart period variability of the denervated donor atria did not change from early to late periods after transplantation, suggesting that vagal reinnervation of the donor heart had not occurred. these data indicate that baseline parasympathetic activity does not increase significantly during the first month after transplantation but increases significantly between months 3 and 6.
why do lean hypertensives have higher mortality rates than other hypertensives? findings of the hypertension detection and follow-up program. specific causes of death were analyzed for 10,908 participants in the hypertension detection and follow-up program, to explore possible explanations for the observed excess 8.3-year mortality from all causes in hypertensives with low body mass. although the cardiovascular mortality rate among men in the lowest decile of body mass (body mass index 21.96 or less) was 50% higher than that of men in the median class (body mass index 26.4-28.8), death rate for noncardiovascular deaths was more than 2 1/2 times higher in men with lean versus median body mass. the pattern was similar among women. among noncardiovascular causes, striking differences in mortality rates between lean hypertensives and those of average body mass were observed for cirrhotic death (relative risk of 12+ in men and 11+ in women), for nonmalignant respiratory disease in men (relative risk of 7+), for violent death (both sexes), and for malignant neoplasms in men. prevalence of smoking was almost twice as high in the lowest compared with the median body mass group; among the lean, excess deaths, particularly noncardiovascular deaths, were concentrated among smokers. thus, male smokers in the lowest decile of body mass constituted only 3% of the study population, but contributed 8% of all deaths, 11% of all noncardiovascular deaths, and 22% of all cirrhotic deaths. a larger proportion of deaths occurred early in follow-up in the lean versus other hypertensives, suggesting occult disease among the lean at baseline. there was no evidence that more severe or treatment-resistant hypertension was present in or could explain excess mortality among the hypertensives with low body mass. the inference from the findings is not that overweight is protective for hypertensives nor that excess risk is due to leanness per se. rather, a reasonable hypothesis, particularly from findings on specific causes of death, is that excess mortality in lean hypertensives is due to deleterious lifestyles, particularly smoking and excess alcohol intake, contributing to both leanness and risk of death.
effect of long-term exercise on regional myocardial function and coronary collateral development after gradual coronary artery occlusion in pigs. the effect of myocardial ischemia, induced by long-term exercise, on regional myocardial function and coronary collateral development was examined in pigs after gradual occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery (lcx) with an ameroid occluder. thirty days after surgery, regional myocardial function and blood flow were assessed during exercise in 22 pigs separated into exercise (n = 12) and sedentary groups (n = 10). the exercise group trained on a treadmill for 25 +/- 1 days, 30-50 min/day, at heart rates of 210-220 beats/min. after 5 weeks, another exercise test was performed. in the exercise group, after training, we observed an improvement in systolic wall thickening, expressed as a percentage of rest, in the collateral-dependent lcx region from 64 +/- 8% to 87 +/- 6% (p less than 0.01) at moderate exercise levels (220 beats/min) and from 45 +/- 7% to 73 +/- 7% (p less than 0.01) at severe exercise levels (265 beats/min). transmural myocardial blood flow in the lcx region expressed as a ratio of flow in the nonoccluded region of the left ventricle also increased significantly (p less than 0.01) during severe exercise after 5 weeks. the sedentary group showed an improvement in systolic wall thickening in the lcx region during moderate exercise compared with the initial exercise test (p less than 0.05) but no significant change in systolic wall thickening or myocardial blood flow ratios during severe exercise after 5 weeks. we conclude that long-term exercise after gradual lcx coronary artery occlusion in pigs improves myocardial function and coronary collateral reserve in collateral-dependent myocardium during exercise.
quality of life research in oncology. past achievements and future priorities. the status of quality of life research in oncology is assessed, and priorities for future research with regard to conceptual and theoretical developments, focus and content of research, research designs and practical strategies for research implementation, and transferring information to clinical practice and medical policy decision-making are identified. there is general agreement that quality of life is a subjective and multidimensional construct, yet comprehensive theoretical models have not been developed and applied fully. we recommend that future research be based on conceptual models that explicate the interrelationships among quality of life domains throughout the stages of cancer care. these models, and the longitudinal research that follows from them, should attend specifically to cross-class and cross-cultural issues to avoid overgeneralization from theory and research that are based largely on the views of the majority culture. we encourage the inclusion of this theory-based quality of life assessment as a standard component of clinical trials. success in this endeavor will require additional standardization of quality of life measures for use across a range of cancer patient populations, including the development of age-specific norms and instruments designed to assess the entire family system.
kearns-sayre syndrome presenting as renal tubular acidosis. renal tubular acidosis and tetany were the 1st manifestations of kearns-sayre syndrome in a 5-year-old child. subsequently, he developed progressive external ophthalmoplegia, ptosis, retinopathy, heart block, and endocrinopathy. there was a 7.5-kb deletion of mitochondrial dna documented in muscle, kidney, skin fibroblasts, and leukocytes, providing evidence for a multisystem mitochondrial cytopathy.
prognosis of acute myocardial infarction complicated by primary ventricular fibrillation. principal investigators of the sprint study. in 5,839 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami), hospitalized between july 1981 and july 1983 in 14 coronary care units in israel, the incidence of primary ventricular fibrillation (vf) was 2.1%. patients with primary vf resembled counterparts without vf in terms of age, gender, frequency of previous ami and past cigarette smoking habits. the hospital course of patients with primary vf revealed increased incidence of primary atrial fibrillation and atrioventricular block. increased serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase were noted among the patients with primary vf. in-hospital mortality rate was 18.8% in 122 patients with primary vf compared with 8.5% in 3,707 patients forming the reference group (p less than 0.01). adjustment by age using logistic function yielded an estimate of 2.86 for relative mortality odds associated with primary vf, and further adjustment by gender, history of ami, systemic hypertension, and by enzymatically estimated infarct size slightly reduced the estimated odds, at 2.52 (95% confidence interval, 1.42 to 4.46). prognosis after discharge from the hospital was independent of primary vf. in conclusion, primary vf exerts an independent, significant effect on in-hospital mortality.
durability of vein graft revision: the outcome of secondary procedures. occlusive lesions that reduced graft blood flow and ankle systolic pressure were identified in 83 femorodistal saphenous vein bypasses by use of duplex scanning or arteriography. sites of stenosis included vein conduit (n = 41), anastomoses (n = 20), outflow arteries (n = 15), or inflow (n = 9) arteries. one hundred three secondary procedures consisting of vein-patch angioplasty (n = 31), sequential (n = 21) or interposition (n = 17) graft placement, percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty (n = 17), or excision of the lesion and primary anastomosis (n = 16) were performed to correct primary (n = 85) or recurrent (n = 18) graft stenoses. cumulative graft patency after reintervention was 96% at 1 year, and 85% at 5 years. stenosis or occlusion of revision sites was less after excision (0 of 16) or replacement (1 of 17) of abnormal segments compared to vein-patch angioplasty (8 of 31) or balloon angioplasty (9 of 18). sequential or jump grafts constructed to improve graft outflow impaired by either myointimal or atherosclerotic occlusive lesions were the least durable secondary procedures. five of eight graft failures in this series resulted from sequential/jump graft occlusion. all categories of secondary procedures normalized graft and limb hemodynamics, although only one third of patients reported symptoms of limb ischemia before revision. surveillance of infrainguinal vein bypasses for occlusive lesions is a valid concept to salvage patent but hemodynamically-failing grafts. secondary procedures that excised the lesion, used autologous tissue reconstruction, and normalized hemodynamics at the revision site and in the vein bypass were associated with a low incidence of restenosis and prolonged graft patency.
epilepsy. as surgical treatments for adult and pediatric forms of epilepsy have become more refined, methods for noninvasive localization of epileptogenic foci have become increasingly important. detection of focal brain metabolic or flow abnormalities is now well recognized as an essential step in the presurgical evaluation of many patients with epilepsy. positron emission tomography (pet) scanning is most beneficial when used in the context of the total clinical evaluation of patients, including scalp eeg, invasive eeg, neuropsychologic testing, etc. metabolic pet studies also give insight into pathophysiologic mechanisms of epilepsy. the dynamic nature of the interictal hypometabolism observed with 18[f]fdg in some patients suggests that excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmitters and their receptors may be involved. an exciting current application of pet scanning is the use of tracers for neurotransmitter receptors in the study of epilepsy patients. mu and non-mu opiate receptors have been extensively studied and are beginning to give new insights into this disorder. increased labeling of mu receptors in temporal neocortex using 11c-carfentanil has been demonstrated and, in some patients, supplements the clinical localization information from 18[f]fdg studies. increased mu opiate receptor number or affinity is thought to play a role in anticonvulsant mechanisms. specificity of increased mu receptors is supported by the absence of significant changes in non-mu opiate receptors. other brain receptors are also of interest for future studies, particularly those for excitatory neurotransmitters. combined studies of flow, metabolism, and neuroreceptors may elucidate the factors responsible for initiation and termination of seizures, thus improving patient treatment.
emergency center ultrasonography in the evaluation of hemoperitoneum: a prospective study. the reliability of ultrasonographic detection (us) of hemoperitoneum in blunt abdominal trauma was evaluated in a prospective study of 72 patients. independent of the examiner, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were, respectively, 86.7%, 100%, and 97.2%. laparotomy was indicated in 76.9% of us hemoperitoneum-positive cases. no negative laparotomies were performed in this study group. if hemoperitoneum is revealed in us and vital signs are unstable, we think laparotomy is indicated. we believe that us in an emergency center is a quick, safe screening method in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. us might take over a great part of the role of diagnostic peritoneal lavage.
prospective randomized study on the effect of ranitidine against injection ulcer after endoscopic injection sclerotherapy for esophageal varices. thirty-five consecutive patients undergoing endoscopic injection sclerotherapy for esophageal varices were randomly allocated to either ranitidine-administered group (18 patients) or ranitidine-nonadministered group (17 patients), in an attempt to evaluate the efficacy of ranitidine for prevention and healing of postinjection ulcer with a prospective randomized trial. two of seventeen patients in the nonadministered group dropped out of this trial because of development of gastric ulcer, so 18 patients in the first group were evaluated and compared with the 15 remaining patients in the second group. sclerotherapy was performed with 5% ethanolamine oleate and 0.6% polydocanol; the mean number of injection courses and the mean amount of sclerosant were the same in both groups. moreover, there was no significant difference between the two groups in either the occurrence rate or the size of injection ulcer 1 wk after the last session. however, the persistence rate of ulcer 1 month after last injection in the ranitidine-administered group was significantly lower than that in the ranitidine-nonadministered group (6.3% vs. 38.5%, p less than 0.05). our study demonstrated that ranitidine administration will help to hasten healing of postinjection ulcer, although it was not effective for prevention of injection ulcer.
early gastric cancer. twenty-eight-year experience. a retrospective study of early gastric cancer (60 patients) was performed to evaluate its diagnosis and treatment. ninety-five per cent of patients presented with nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms and 53.3% had been treated for presumed benign disease for up to 48 months before diagnosis. fiberoptic endoscopy detected these lesions more accurately than radiologic examination. the disease-free 5-year survival rate after resection was 76.4%. survival showed no significant correlation with sex, tumor site, macroscopic appearance, extent of gastric resection, or histopathologic type. tumors larger than 1.5 cm in diameter, invasion of submucosa, or lymph node metastasis resulted in significantly lower survival rates. three of eight patients with nodal metastasis survived 5 or more years, including one who had second-echelon deposits. a high index of suspicion may permit more frequent detection. extended lymphadenectomy (r2) is recommended to achieve the highest possible cure rate.
meningeal involvement in bence jones multiple myeloma. a case of bence jones kappa multiple myeloma with meningeal involvement in a 64-year-old woman is presented. three years after the diagnosis of multiple myeloma, gait disturbances developed followed by visual disorders and impaired consciousness. a lumbar puncture revealed numerous atypical plasma cells in the cerebrospinal fluid. craniospinal irradiation and intrathecal injections of methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisolone were effective for a short period. at autopsy, the leptomeninges were infiltrated diffusely with atypical plasma cells. a review of the literature showed that multiple myeloma with meningeal involvement is accompanied frequently by circulating atypical plasma cells or plasma cell leukemia. meningeal involvement is a rare complication and shows poor prognosis in cases of multiple myeloma.
platelet-activating factor. a putative mediator in central nervous system injury? platelet-activating factor (1-o-hexadecyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine) is a potent lipid autacoid produced by many cell types. platelet-activating factor is produced by cerebellar granule cells in culture and has been extracted from brain tissue. multiple platelet-activating factor receptors have been demonstrated in brain tissue. activation of platelet-activating factor receptors in transformed neuronal cell lines involved increases in intracellular calcium. platelet-activating factor has potent actions on cerebral vessels and cerebral metabolism when administered in vivo, but may not have direct effects on brain microvessels. excessive platelet-activating factor production in pathological states of the nervous system such as neurotrauma and stroke has been shown in only a few models (e.g., spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion or focal repercussion brain injury). in multiple studies using highly specific and potent platelet-activating factor antagonists, reversal or prevention of key consequences of brain injury such as hypoperfusion following ischemia, reperfusion and edema, inflammatory cell accumulation, neurologic/motor deficits, and neuronal salvage were demonstrated. this review provides and analyzes evidence in support of the role that platelet-activating factor might have in modulation of brain function and pathophysiological processes in brain ischemia and trauma.
beta-carotene's effects on serum lipoproteins and immunologic indices in humans. doses of beta-carotene for cancer-prevention trials have been chosen based on epidemiologic data. mechanisms of the putative antineoplastic effects by beta-carotene are unknown but may involve modulation of the immune system. we measured plasma carotenoid concentrations and selected immunologic indices at baseline and at 2 and 4 wk in 50 healthy humans (5 groups of 10 each) ingesting 0, 15, 45, 180, or 300 mg beta-carotene/d for 1 mo in this randomized placebo-controlled, open-label, parallel study. plasma beta-carotene concentrations were markedly increased by 2 wk and were correlated with dose. beta-carotene concentrations plateaued between 2 and 4 wk except for the 300-mg group. thus, we developed a dose-concentration curve to optimize beta-carotene-dose selection to achieve target plasma concentrations. we were unable to identify any effects of beta-carotene ingestion on the immunologic indices studied, but modest increases in high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol were observed in all beta-carotene-treated groups.
the alien hand sign. localization, lateralization and recovery. the alien hand sign was first described by brion and jedynak as a "feeling of estrangement between the patient and one of his hands." the affected hand frequently shows a grasp reflex and an instinctive grasp reaction as well as elements of what denny-brown referred to as a "magnetic apraxia" associated with frontal lobe damage. most notably, however, the affected hand is observed to perform apparently purposive behaviors that are perceived as being outside the volitional control of the patient. the patients interpret the behavior of their own affected limb as being controlled by an external agent. they do not feel that they are initiating or controlling the behavior of the hand and often express dismay at the hand's "extravolitional" activity. the patients attempt to control behavior of the alien hand with the unimpaired hand by forcibly restraining the affected limb, an act that may be termed "self-restriction." in this paper, we report an additional four cases of alien hand sign in right-handed subjects: two involving the right hand and two involving the left hand. in each case, the clinical findings were associated with extensive unilateral damage of the medial frontal cortex of the hemisphere contralateral to the affected hand. furthermore, the alien movement gradually disappears over the course of 6-12 months after the stroke. these clinical case studies are presented and discussed in the context of the "dual premotoer systems hypothesis," an anatomicophysiological model that proposes that action is organized by two separate but interactive premotor brain systems corresponding to evolutionarily defined medial and lateral cortical moieties. it is hypothesized that the alien mode behavior results from unconstrained activity of the lateral premotor system in the damaged hemisphere. the residual volitional control in the limb occurs through the activity of the intact medial premotor system of the ipsilateral hemisphere. recovery may occur through extension of these ipsilateral control mechanisms by compensatory changes in subcortical systems controlling hemispheric activation associated with adaptive behavior. this observation may be important in understanding mechanisms involved in motor recovery after stroke.
hepatic arterial embolization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis. transarterial hepatic embolization was attempted in 10 and succeeded in nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma accompanied by extensive celiac arterial stenosis. all catheterization was done through the femoral artery. in six cases, the tip of the catheter (2.5-f ball-tip microcatheter in three cases, 4-f ball-tip supple catheter in three cases) was placed in the proper hepatic artery through the pancreaticoduodenal collaterals. in three cases, a ball-tip microcatheter was injected from the guiding catheter, which was placed in a pinhole of the celiac trunk. these techniques involving flow-guided ball-tip catheters are of great value for hepatic arterial catheterization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis.
venous stasis and vein lumen changes during surgery the mechanisms underlying the development of postoperative deep vein thrombosis remain to be fully elucidated. previous studies have suggested that peroperative venous distension may be a factor associated with venous thromboembolism. in this study we have obtained high resolution ultrasound images of gastrocnemius and posterior tibial veins in 62 patients undergoing a range of general surgical procedures. from these we determined the changes in vein diameter occurring during the operative procedures, in response to induction of anaesthesia, and after completion of surgery. veins showed no evidence of dilatation in response to the induction of anaesthesia, but by the end of the operative procedure showed distension of 22-28 per cent. distension was most prominent in the gastrocnemius veins, and lesser distension was observed in the posterior tibial veins. in a series of patients who received an infusion of 1 litre of saline in addition to basal requirements, distension was 57 per cent compared with 22 per cent in the corresponding control group. intraoperative venous distension is associated with factors that lead to deep vein thrombosis and may be involved in the mechanisms which result in the commencement of deep vein thrombosis.
haemostatic changes in the loin pain and haematuria syndrome: secondary to renal vasospasm? twenty-five patients (seven male, 18 female) were diagnosed as having the loin pain and haematuria syndrome. presenting symptoms were either loin pain alone or pain associated with macroscopic or microscopic haematuria, and were longstanding, having been present for mean of 9.3 years in males, and 10 years in females. ten patients described symptoms of passing gravel or renal stones but these were only demonstrated radiologically in two patients. investigation of all patients showed anatomically normal renal tracts, normal renal function, and no significant proteinuria. phase-contrast microscopy during episodes of haematuria revealed dysmorphic red cells in all 10 patients studied. renal biopsies were performed in 20 patients and showed no glomerular pathology, but arteriolar and arterial hyalinosis was seen in 13 of 20 (65 per cent), fibro-elastosis in larger vessels in eight of 20 (40 per cent) and red blood cells in tubules in 13 of 20 (65 per cent) patients. the histological appearance in vessels was similar to that seen in cyclosporin a nephrotoxicity and would be consistent with the hypothesis that regional vasospasm occurs in the cortical circulation. haematological studies in 22 patients, when compared with age and sex matched controls, showed the presence of circulating platelet aggregates, elevation of plasma beta-thromboglobulin (p less than 0.001), and increased platelet aggregation in response to serotonin and adp (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.03, respectively). plasma concentrations of d dimer (p less than 0.02) and c-reactive protein (p less than 0.03) were also significantly elevated in the patient group. there was no deterioration of renal function during a mean observation period of 3.7 years and no patients developed proteinuria. treatment was largely supportive; seven patients with intractable loin pain underwent surgical denervation with the relief of pain in four.
outcome among surviving very low birthweight infants: a meta-analysis. because published outcome studies are the only available source of data about the morbidity among surviving very low birthweight infants (vlbw, less than 1500 g) a search was carried out of 1136 references in the english language. a total of 111 outcome studies were found that reported morbidity data in cohorts of vlbw infants born since 1960. the methods used and results obtained in these studies were systematically assessed. no agreement exists about the definition of study populations, descriptive statistics, or measurement of outcome. follow up ranged from six months to 14 years. in 85 cohorts the incidence of cerebral palsy was recorded, and in 106 that of disability. studies that followed up infants for longer time periods reported higher incidences of disability. studies from the united states reported higher incidences of disability than those from other countries. the median incidence of cerebral palsy among all the cohorts studied was 7.7%, and the median incidence of disability was 25.0%. despite substantial improvements in the mortality of vlbw infants, poor outcomes among survivors are common.
emergency aortocoronary bypass after failed angioplasty. one thousand two hundred fourteen percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties were performed over a 38-month period. sixty patients required immediate emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after angioplasty failure; 7 of these had evidence of acute myocardial infarction before angioplasty and were excluded from the study. of the 53 patients remaining, 27 (51%) had electrocardiographic and enzyme evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction. two patients died (4%), and 10 had postoperative complications (19%). no statistical significance was noted comparing age, sex, incidence of prior myocardial infarction or myocardial dysfunction, time for revascularization, or average number of grafts completed in those with single-vessel (n = 21) versus multiple-vessel (n = 32) coronary artery disease. postoperatively, those with multiple-vessel disease required intraaortic balloon pump support (p = 0.06) and antiarrhythmic medications more frequently than single-vessel patients (p less than 0.01) and had a higher complication rate (p less than 0.05). although not reaching statistical significance, the data also suggest a higher death and postoperative myocardial infarction rate in patients with multiple-vessel disease. emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty carries a higher morbidity and mortality than elective coronary artery bypass grafting, particularly for patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease.
acalculus lymphoeosinophilic cholecystitis associated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy. a case of unusual cholecystitis that developed on completion of interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy is described. a 62-year-old man was treated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells for disseminated renal cell carcinoma. during the course of the immunotherapy, his serum alkaline phosphatase level increased, as did the peripheral eosinophil count (0.31). subsequently, clinical and radiologic evidence of acute cholecystitis was noted. the removed gallbladder showed acalculus cholecystitis with extensive diffuse infiltrates of numerous eosinophils and t lymphocytes, but sparse polymorphonuclear leukocytes. the authors name this unusual cholecystitis acalculus lymphoeosinophilic cholecystitis and believe it to be associated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy. the pathogenic relationship is discussed.
eleven years' experience with retinopathy of prematurity: visual results and contribution of cryoablation. we report our 11 years' experience of cryotherapy for retinopathy of prematurity (rop). charts of 624 infants weighing under 1250 g who were admitted to our neonatal intensive care unit during 1977-87 were reviewed. three hundred and eighty nine babies survived, and the total rop prevalence was 57.5%. cryotherapy was applied to 35%. only one case (0.25%) of blindness was detected, and four babies (1%) had a final visual acuity of less than 20/200 in one eye. the complication rate following cryoablation was very low.
pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries. a prospective study of 12 cases. pulmonary tumor embolism leading to subacute cor pulmonale has been extensively studied. however, to our knowledge, the involvement of pulmonary alveolar capillaries has not previously been studied in detail. a prospective study was conducted on 112 autopsied patients with cancer to determine the presence of microembolism in the alveolar septal capillaries. fifteen sections of predetermined lung areas were obtained and examined. tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries was detected in 12 cases (10.7%), with simultaneous involvement of other vascular territories in 11. seven patients had dyspnea; four, right ventricular failure; four, hypertrophy of the right ventricle; and three, arterial vascular sclerosis. the present data have led us to conclude that pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries occurs in association with the involvement of arterial or lymphatic vessels and should be analyzed within the context of the study of subacute cor pulmonale.
comparison of motor response to apomorphine and levodopa in parkinson's disease. the magnitude and pattern of motor responses to single doses of subcutaneous apomorphine and oral levodopa were compared in 14 patients with parkinson's disease. although apomorphine produced much shorter motor responses than levodopa, the quality of response to the two drugs was virtually indistinguishable. these clinical observations support the notion that integrity of striatal post-synaptic dopamine receptors is a key determinant of responsiveness to dopaminergic treatment in parkinson's disease.
ultrasonic imaging of the abdomen. report of the ultrasonography task force. council on scientific affairs, american medical association. as new imaging modalities emerge and existing technologies improve, indications for a particular imaging method may change. this article examines current indications for abdominal and prostatic ultrasound examination and, where possible, compares ultrasound with other imaging techniques. this is not an attempt to list all possible ultrasound indications or examinations, but rather an attempt to serve as an aid to informed imaging selection based on current literature and equipment.
frequency of three hex a mutant alleles among jewish and non-jewish carriers identified in a tay-sachs screening program. mutations in the hex a gene, encoding the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase a (hex a), are the cause of tay-sachs disease as well as of juvenile, chronic, and adult gm2 gangliosidoses. we have examined the distribution of three mutations--a 4-nucleotide insertion in exon 11, a g----c transversion at a 5' splice site in intron 12, and a 269gly----ser amino acid substitution in exon 7--among individuals enzymatically diagnosed as carriers of hex a deficiency. mutation analysis included polymerase chain reaction (pcr) amplification of the relevant regions of genomic dna, followed by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization; another test for heterozygosity of the exon 11 insertion was based on the formation of heteroduplex pcr fragments of low electrophoretic mobility. the percentage distribution of the exon 11, intron 12, exon 7, and unidentified mutant alleles was 73:15:4:8 among 156 jewish carriers of hex a deficiency and 16:0:3:81 among 51 non-jewish carriers. regardless of the mutation, the ancestral origin of the jewish carriers was primarily eastern and (somewhat less often) central europe, whereas for the non-jewish carriers it was western europe. because a twelfth of the jewish carriers and four-fifths of the non-jewish carriers of hex a deficiency had mutant alleles other than the three common ones tested, enzyme-based tests cannot be replaced by dna-based tests at the present time. however, dna-based tests for two-carrier couples could identify those at risk for the chronic/adult gm2 gangliosidoses rather than for infantile tay-sachs disease.
ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle: case report. ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare. these tumors usually occur in the pineal, parasellar, or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis. we report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle. the tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach. ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor. the distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important, since ectopic retinoblastomas, unlike metastasis, can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision.
age, sex, and road-use patterns of motor vehicular trauma in rhode island: a population-based hospital emergency department study. population-based hospital emergency department data on motor vehicle traffic trauma in rhode island, 1984-85, are analyzed by age, sex, and road-use status. annualized rates of overall and severe trauma were 1,195 cases (95% confidence interval [ci] = 1,164, 1,225) and 102 cases (95% ci = 94, 111) per 100,000 population, respectively. overall and severe rates peaked at ages 15-24 years. male rate excesses were most pronounced for motor-cycle and pedal cycle trauma.
effects of theophylline, atenolol and their combination on myocardial ischemia in stable angina pectoris. the effects of theophylline (400 mg twice a day), atenolol (50 mg twice a day) and their combination on myocardial ischemia were studied in 9 patients with stable angina pectoris in a randomized, single-blind, triple crossover trial. placebo was administered to the patients during the run-in and the run-off periods. a treadmill exercise test and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained at the end of each treatment period. compared with placebo, theophylline significantly improved the time to onset of myocardial ischemia (1 mm of st-segment depression) from 7.8 +/- 3.7 to 9.5 +/- 3.7 minutes (p less than 0.03) and the exercise duration from 9 +/- 3.4 to 10.1 +/- 3.5 minutes (p less than 0.04). during atenolol and during combination treatment, the time to the onset of ischemia and the exercise duration were similar (10.8 +/- 4.2 and 11.2 +/- 3.2 minutes, 11.2 +/- 3.6 and 11.5 +/- 3.2 minutes, respectively) and longer than during theophylline administration (p less than 0.05). ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring showed that, during theophylline administration, the heart rate was higher than during placebo throughout the 24 hours (p less than 0.05). during atenolol and during combination treatment the heart rate was similar and in both cases lower than during placebo (p less than 0.05). compared with placebo, theophylline decreased the total ischemic time from 97 +/- 110 to 70 +/- 103 minutes (p less than 0.05).
renal artery stenosis in patients with aortic dissection: increased prevalence the authors retrospectively analyzed the prevalence of renal artery stenosis in 63 consecutive patients with aortic dissection who underwent thoracic and abdominal aortography. ten patients (16%) had renal artery stenosis, five with atherosclerosis and five with fibromuscular lesions. risk factors for aortic dissection were marfan disease in nine patients, bicuspid aortic valve in one, and hypertension in 54 (including seven patients with marfan syndrome). if the patients with marfan syndrome and the patient with the bicuspid aortic valve are excluded, renal artery stenosis was present in 10 of 53 patients (19%) when the cause of dissection was presumably hypertension. this finding suggests that renovascular hypertension is a greater risk factor for aortic dissection than is essential hypertension. the success of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (ptra) in controlling renovascular hypertension has been proved. in this series, emergent ptra successfully controlled the hypertension in one patient with a type b dissection, resulting in an excellent clinical outcome. angiography should be routinely performed on patients with aortic dissections to evaluate for renal artery stenosis.
endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension. to assess reliability of the endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa for diagnosing portal hypertension, 50 patients with portal hypertension and 1323 controls were studied. endoscopic evidence of mild gastritis was seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension than in the control group (42% vs. 13.1%, p less than 0.001). the mosaic sign was also seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension compared with controls (14% vs. 0.9%, p less than 0.001). however, the mosaic sign was found to be nonspecific, and the sensitivity for diagnosis of portal hypertension was only 14%. biopsy specimens from the stomach of all patients with portal hypertension and 100 controls with a normal endoscopic appearance revealed mucosal vascular congestion in 72% of patients with portal hypertension compared with 59% of controls (ns). there was no correlation between endoscopic and histologic evidence of congestive gastropathy. similarly, there was no correlation between the severity of mucosal vascular congestion and the degree of inflammatory changes observed in the biopsy specimens; both in the control (r = 0.1) and in patients with portal hypertension (r = 0.14). it is concluded that endoscopic and histologic features of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension are of low sensitivity and nonspecific and cannot be used to diagnose portal hypertension.
eight and 12 week courses of cyclophosphamide in nephrotic syndrome seventy-three children with steroid dependent minimal change nephrotic syndrome were randomly allocated to receive treatment with cyclophosphamide (2 mg/kg/day) for either eight or 12 weeks, in combination with prednisolone. all patients had previously relapsed while the dosage was being reduced or within 14 days of discontinuing prednisolone in the six months before receiving cyclophosphamide treatment (steroid dependent), and had severe steroid toxicity. thirty two patients were treated with cyclophosphamide for eight weeks, and 41 for 12 weeks. there were no differences between the two groups in age at onset of nephrosis or entry into the study, sex ratio, duration of nephrosis, number of relapses before entry, and follow up period after entry. the relapse free rate of patients treated for eight weeks (25%) was similar to that of those treated for 12 weeks (24%) five years after stopping the treatment, and the mean relapse free interval and the sparing effect of cyclophosphamide (if any) on subsequent treatment with steroids did not differ between the groups. we conclude that cyclophosphamide should be used for no longer than eight weeks at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in children with steroid dependent minimal change nephrotic syndrome.
usefulness of d, i sotalol for suppression of chronic ventricular arrhythmias. sotalol is a unique beta-blocking drug, possessing significant class iii antiarrhythmic activity. the efficacy and safety of 2 doses of sotalol (320 and 640 mg/day, divided in 2 doses) were compared to placebo in a 6-week randomized, double-blind, multicenter study of 114 patients with chronic ventricular premature complexes (vpcs) at frequencies of greater than or equal to 30/hour. sotalol significantly reduced vpcs in patients receiving both low (n = 38) and high (n = 39) doses, compared with patients (n = 37) receiving placebo (by 75 and 88%, respectively, vs 10%; p less than 0.001, sotalol vs placebo; p less than 0.05, high vs low dose). the individual efficacy criterion (greater than or equal to 75% vpc reduction) was achieved in 34% of low-dose and 71% of high-dose sotalol versus 6% of placebo-treated patients (p less than 0.003, sotalol vs placebo; p = 0.007, high vs low dose). repetitive beats were suppressed 25% by placebo (difference not significant), 80% by low-dose (p less than 0.003) and 78% by high-dose sotalol (p less than 0.005). sotalol decreased heart rate (by 24 to 25%, p less than 0.001) and increased pr (by 4 to 6%, p less than 0.001) and corrected jt intervals (by 12 to 13%, p less than 0.001), but did not change ejection fraction. proarrhythmia (nonfatal) occurred in 3 sotalol and in 2 placebo patients. nine discontinued therapy because of adverse effects (1 low dose and 8 high dose, p less than 0.02). in summary, sotalol is an efficacious antiarrhythmic drug for vpc suppression; in lower doses, it is somewhat less effective but better tolerated.
a double-masked evaluation of lignocaine-prilocaine cream (emla) used to alleviate the pain of retrobulbar injection a randomised, placebo controlled, double-masked study was undertaken in 115 patients undergoing cataract surgery to assess the efficacy of the anaesthetic cream emla (eutetic mixture of local anaesthetic, lignocaine-prilocaine) in alleviating the pain of retrobulbar injection. sixty three patients received the emla cream and 52 the placebo cream. the pain was assessed objectively by the anaesthetist, who observed the reaction of the patient on needle insertion, and subjectively by the patient. significantly lower pain scores were recorded in patients treated with emla cream (anaesthetist's observation: p less than 0.01, patient's assessment: p less than 0.006). no patients experienced serious side effects in either treatment group.
changes in physician practice for the prevention of cardiovascular disease. to determine recent changes in physicians' practices for cardiovascular disease risk reduction, a randomly selected sample of practicing primary care physicians in the upper midwest was interviewed by telephone in 1987 and again in 1989 (response rates, greater than 90%; n = 241). the reported mean cutoff levels for labeling a total serum cholesterol level as abnormal dropped from 5.84 to 5.43 mmol/l (226 to 210 mg/dl) and for initiating medication, from 7.34 to 6.54 mmol/l (284 to 253 mg/dl). the proportion of physicians using diuretics as preferred step 1 antihypertensive agents dropped from 60% to 32%. preferences became evenly divided among diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and beta-blockers. advice about physical exercise changed little, but consensus among practicing physicians was high. substantial improvements were found in smoking cessation activities. practicing physicians are proving to be responsive to new scientific evidence and education in the prevention of cardiovascular disease.
gallbladder motility in cholesterol gallstone disease. effect of ursodeoxycholic acid administration and gallstone dissolution gallbladder motility was evaluated by ultrasonography in 75 cholesterol gallstone patients and in 77 matched control subjects. all 75 gallstone patients were candidates for oral bile acid therapy (radiolucent gallstones, less than 2 cm in diameter, in well-opacified gallbladder), and 38 of them were also studied during ursodeoxycholic acid administration. an additional 20 gallstone patients were studied 1 year after confirmed gallstone dissolution with oral bile acids. gallstone patients showed significantly greater fasting and residual volumes, a decreased percent of gallbladder emptying, but a similar absolute emptying and emptying rate compared with the control subjects. greater fasting volumes and reduced percents of gallbladder emptying were also found in gallstone-free patients who achieved complete dissolution with oral bile acids. after ursodeoxycholic acid administration, fasting gallbladder volumes were greater, and percents of gallbladder emptying were further decreased than in untreated gallstone patients. in conclusion, greater fasting volumes, and not reduced gallbladder contractility, account for the defective gallbladder function in radiolucent (cholesterol-rich) gallstone patients. this condition is likely to precede, and possibly to promote, gallstone formation because it persists after gallstone dissolution. ursodeoxycholic acid administration worsens the defect observed in gallstone patients. this finding also suggests, although indirectly, that the expected normalization of cholesterol saturation during oral bile acid administration is not paralleled by an improvement in gallbladder function.
pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis. an independent risk factor for mortality. nosocomial pneumonia (np) is associated with a significant mortality, 66% in a previous retrospective study of np complicating intra-abdominal sepsis (ias). we prospectively compared the outcome of np complicating ias with that of recurrent ias (r-ias) in the absence of np. data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with ias; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis (44% mortality). one hundred seventy-one patients with no np and no r-ias (group 1) had a hospital mortality of 20% (34 patients); 36 without np in whom r-ias developed (group 2) had a 17% mortality (six patients); and 47 with np but no r-ias (group 3) had a 53% mortality (25 patients). finally, 12 patients who had both np and r-ias suffered a 75% mortality (nine patients). we examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality: apache (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) ii score (at initial presentation with ias), the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis, steroid requirement, generalized peritonitis vs abscess, and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment. using mortality as the dependent variable, group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable, and the risk factors as confounders, logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders. we conclude that np complicating ias is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with r-ias. these data challenge the notion that death in ias is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection.
effect of antiarrhythmic therapy on mortality in survivors of myocardial infarction with asymptomatic complex ventricular arrhythmias: basel antiarrhythmic study of infarct survival (basis) in view of the high risk of sudden cardiac death and the prognostic importance of complex ventricular ectopic activity, the effects of prophylactic antiarrhythmic treatment were investigated prospectively in patients with persisting asymptomatic complex arrhythmias after myocardial infarction. end points were total mortality and arrhythmic events (sudden death, sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation). of 1,220 consecutively screened survivors of myocardial infarction, 312 had lown class 3 or 4b arrhythmia on 24 h electrocardiographic recordings before hospital discharge and consented to the study. they were randomized to individualized antiarrhythmic treatment (group 1, n = 100), treatment with low dose amiodarone, 200 mg/day (group 2, n = 98) or no antiarrhythmic therapy (group 3 [control group], n = 114). during the 1 year follow-up period, 10 patients in group 1 died, as did 5 in group 2 and 15 in group 3. on the basis of an intention to treat analysis, the probability of survival of patients given amiodarone was significantly greater than that of control patients (p less than 0.05). in addition, arrhythmic events were significantly reduced by amiodarone (p less than 0.01). these effects were less marked and not significant for individually treated patients (group 1). these findings suggest that low dose amiodarone decreases mortality in the 1st year after myocardial infarction in patients at high risk of sudden death.
giant sclerosing leiomyoma of bladder presenting as chronic renal failure. the clinical and pathologic features of a case of giant sclerosing leiomyoma of the bladder in a male polynesian patient are reported. the presenting complication of chronic renal failure due to tumor envelopment of both ureters and consequent bilateral renal obstruction appears to be unique in the literature.
diagnosis of thymoma in myasthenics using anti-striated muscle antibodies: predictive value and gain in diagnostic certainty. assay of anti-striated muscle antibodies (strab) is used as a diagnostic test for thymoma in individuals with myasthenia gravis. unfortunately, false positive results are common, and their effect on test accuracy is magnified by the relatively low frequency of thymoma in myasthenics. we estimated the predictive values of positive and negative strab assays (pv+ and pv-) and gain in diagnostic certainty using values for sensitivity, specificity, and thymoma frequency previously reported in the literature. sensitivity for indirect immunofluorescence assays ranged from 0.83 to 0.84 (pooled estimate = 0.84; n = 68). specificity ranged from 0.73 to 0.88 (pooled estimate = 0.77; n = 898). frequency of thymoma ranged from 0.07 to 0.17 (pooled estimate = 0.12; n = 4,515). the expected gain in diagnostic certainty from strab was minimal in those aged 0 to 20 and those aged 60+. in those aged 20 to 60, a negative test helped to exclude thymoma, and a positive test raised diagnostic suspicion but was not sufficient to establish a diagnosis of thymoma (pv+ = 0.46).
tricuspid valve dysplasia or displacement in intrauterine life. in 450 cases of structural heart disease diagnosed prenatally, 38 fetuses (8.5%) had either a dysplastic or a displaced tricuspid valve. the tricuspid valve was dysplastic in 22 fetuses, all of which had evidence of tricuspid regurgitation resulting in right atrial dilation and increased cardiothoracic ratio. an associated abnormality of the pulmonary valve occurred in 16 fetuses. the remaining 16 fetuses had ebstein's malformation, 14 with evidence of tricuspid incompetence at presentation and 10 with an associated abnormality of the pulmonary valve. of the 38 cases, the pregnancy was interrupted in 17, spontaneous intrauterine fetal death occurred in 8, 11 infants died postnatally and 2 infants are still alive; additional abnormalities were found in 8 cases (chromosomal anomalies in 2, ventricular septal defects in 2, corrected transposition in 2, the chiari malformation in 2, supraventricular tachycardia in 1 case and coarctation of the aorta in 1). fetuses with severe abnormalities are selected for fetal echocardiography by the four chamber screening program and a high rate of natural loss both in intrauterine life and immediately after birth was observed in the 21 cases in which pregnancy was continued. this would explain the higher incidence of tricuspid valve disease in our prenatal compared with postnatal series. although increased cardiothoracic ratio and associated lesions of the right ventricular outflow tract contribute to the poor outcome in the cases detected prenatally, the absence of these features does not always indicate a good prognosis because progression of disease can occur with advancing gestational age. no absolute measurement or single echocardiographic feature emerged as a consistent predictive factor of prognosis.
premalignant lesions: role of antioxidant vitamins and beta-carotene in risk reduction and prevention of malignant transformation. epidemiological studies have shown that diets rich in one or more antioxidant nutrients may reduce the risk of cancers of the lung, uterine cervix, mouth, and gastrointestinal tract. study of premalignant lesions offers a comparatively expedient approach to identifying and evaluating the efficacy of the cancer chemopreventive components of foods. some recent findings suggest roles for beta-carotene and/or vitamin c in reversing or reducing the risk of cervical dysplasia and oral leukoplakia. there are some indications that vitamin c and beta-carotene may reduce the risk of atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer. additional epidemiological and molecular biology studies and clinical intervention trials using premalignant lesions as the marker of specific cancer risks should become an important component of future research in the area of cancer chemoprevention.
early assessment of coronary artery bypass graft patency by high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography. to assess the role of high-dose (up to 0.84 mg/kg during 10 minutes) dipyridamole echocardiographic testing in the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency early after surgery, 18 consecutive patients with angina underwent dipyridamole echocardiography and coronary angiography before and 7 to 10 days after bypass surgery. coronary angiography showed 2- or 3-vessel disease in 7 and 11 patients, respectively. a total of 53 bypass grafts were performed. before bypass surgery 14 patients had a positive and 4 a negative test result. no complication occurred during the test performed early after surgery. of the 14 patients with positive dipyridamole echocardiographic results before surgery, 10 had negative and 4 had positive results after surgery. all 4 patients had negative results before and after surgery. in the 4 patients with positive results after dipyridamole echocardiographic testing before and after bypass surgery, dipyridamole time increased from 5.8 +/- 5 to 9.3 +/- 0.9 minutes (p = 0.3) after the procedure and wall motion score index at peak dipyridamole changed from 1.55 +/- 0.2 to 1.28 +/- 0.3 (p = 0.05). forty-nine of 53 grafts were patent as seen on angiography. dipyridamole echocardiographic results were positive in 4 of 5 patients who had at least 1 obstructed graft or native vessel obstructed distal to bypass graft insertion. the remaining patient had diagnostic electrocardiographic changes during dipyridamole infusion without wall motion abnormalities. dipyridamole echocardiographic results were negative in all 13 patients who had complete revascularization. in the 4 patients with positive test results, the procedure correctly identified the localization of the diseased bypass graft.
maple syrup urine disease caused by a partial deletion in the inner e2 core domain of the branched chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex due to aberrant splicing. a single base deletion at a 5'-splice donor site of an intron of the e2 gene disrupts the consensus sequence in this region. we have studied the molecular bases of maple syrup urine disease by analyzing the activity, subunit structure, mrna sequence, and the genome of the affected enzyme. the branched chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (bckdh) activity in the patient was 4.2-4.5% of the control level. immunoblot analysis revealed that the e2 subunit of bckdh (mr 52,000) was absent and another protein band with an mr of 49,000 was present. we amplified the cdna of the e2 subunit obtained from the patient's cell using the polymerase chain reaction method, then sequenced the amplified cdna, in which a 78-bp deletion was identified. the consanguineous parents and a sister had two species of mrna; the one corresponding to the normal e2 subunit and the other with a 78-bp deletion, whereas findings in a brother were normal. the molecular size of the translation products as deduced from the abnormal mrna sequence was compatible with an abnormal protein band (mr 49,000) detected in the patient's cells by immunoblot analysis. analysis of genomic dna of bckdh-e2 subunit revealed that the 78-bp deletion in the mrna was caused by an exon skipping due to a single base deletion in the 5'-splice donor site. as a result of the mutation, part of the inner e2 core domain was omitted. the specified region of the inner e2 core domain was highly homologous to the region of the e2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. these observations imply the biological importance of the region in the inner e2 core domain of bckdh to maintain normal function of the activity.
facial pain. this article presents differential diagnosis and treatment of facial pain. facial pain is classified in accordance with the recent work of the headache classification committee of the international headache society. the two major divisions are facial pain associated with disorders of the head and neck, including their parts, and disorders of cranial nerves, including their central connections. special attention is paid to the controversial topics of temporomandibular joint dysfunction and atypical facial pain.
pseudopsammomatous meningioma with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen: a true secretory meningioma. case report. a sphenoid-wing meningioma in a 60-year-old woman was accompanied by elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) levels, which returned to normal after removal of the tumor. light microscopic examination revealed a secretory meningioma containing numerous pseudopsammoma bodies and a prominent vascular pattern. immunohistochemical analysis showed the tumor cells and pseudopsammoma bodies to be cea-positive. this case illustrates the possibility that secretory meningioma may be associated with clinically detectable secretion of cea. the report also documents the rare occurrence of elevated serum cea in a primary benign intracranial tumor.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy using intracorporeal lithotripsy. over a 13-month period (november 1988 to december 1989), we performed our first 104 laparoscopic cholecystectomies using an intracorporeal ultrasonic lithotripsy technique. the procedure in three of these patients was converted to an open operation because of hemorrhage with unexpected findings of cirrhosis in two patients and dense subhepatic adhesions in a third. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was successfully used in three other patients in whom common bile duct stones were identified. we encountered only three postoperative complications out of all the laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed. one complication was a biliary fistula that closed spontaneously 1 week after surgery. the remaining complications were attributable to abscesses, one subhepatic and one pelvic, which were aspirated and drained laparoscopically. there were no deaths. advantages of the laparoscopic approach included decreased perioperative pain, shortened hospitalization, absence of scar, and more rapid return to prehospitalization activities.
bcl-2 is an inner mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks programmed cell death. the t(14; 18) chromosomal translocation of human follicular b-cell lymphoma juxtaposes the bcl-2 gene with the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. the bcl-2 immunoglobulin fusion gene is markedly deregulated resulting in inappropriately elevated levels of bcl-2 rna and protein. transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2 immunoglobulin minigene demonstrate a polyclonal expansion of resting yet responsive igm-igd b cells which display prolonged cell survival but no increase in cell cycling. moreover, deregulated bcl-2 extends the survival of certain haematopoietic cell lines following growth-factor deprivation. by using immunolocalization studies we now demonstrate that bcl-2 is an integral inner mitochondrial membrane protein of relative molecular mass 25,000 (25k). overexpression of bcl-2 blocks the apoptotic death of a pro-b-lymphocyte cell line. thus, bcl-2 is unique among proto-oncogenes, being localized to mitochondria and interfering with programmed cell death independent of promoting cell division.
human tumor fluorouracil trapping: clinical correlations of in vivo 19f nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy pharmacokinetics. we previously reported that fluorouracil (5fu) accumulation and metabolism in human livers and tumors can be studied by in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (nmrs). we have extended these observations by evaluating the pharmacokinetics of 5fu in the tumors of 11 patients with carcinoma of the breast, colon, endometrium, cervix, and kidney, using 19f-nmrs in a 1.5 magnetom (siemens medical systems, cerrito, ca) magnetic resonance imaging unit (mri). these nmrs measurements detected a long-lived tumor pool of 5fu in six of 11 tumors in our patients including carcinomas in the pelvis, breast, lung, and liver. the half-life (t1/2) of this tumor pool of "trapped" 5fu was 0.33 to 1.3 hours (20 to 78 minutes), much longer than the t1/2 of 5fu in blood (5 to 15 minutes). neither the anabolites of 5fu (fluorinated nucleosides, nucleotides, 5fu-rna, or 5fu-thymidylate synthase) nor the catabolites (eg, fluorobetaalanine [fbal]) were detectable by 19f nmrs. patient response to chemotherapy appeared to correlate with the extent of trapping of free 5fu in the human tumors: in the seven patients receiving 5fu, or 5fu or fudr plus leucovorin, four of four patients whose tumors trapped 5fu responded to fluorinated pyrimidine chemotherapy, whereas three patients in whom there was a failure to detect tumor trapping were resistant to 5fu. we conclude that nmrs is clinically feasible, and enables investigators to study 5fu pharmacokinetics and metabolism in tumors in vivo. 19f-nmrs of 5fu allows for in vivo evaluation of 5fu metabolic modulation and might be able to guide therapeutic decisions.
pediatric osteosarcoma: therapeutic strategies, results, and prognostic factors derived from a 10-year experience. ninety-eight pediatric patients were treated with three separate protocols (treatment and investigation of osteosarcoma [tios] i, ii, and iii) and 47 developed recurrent disease (metastases and/or local recurrence). actuarial overall disease-free survival (hereafter designated survival) was 43%. over 90% of the patients were treated initially with preoperative intraarterial cisplatin (cdp). postoperative chemotherapeutic regimens comprised high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue (mtx-cf), adriamycin [( adr] doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh), and cyclophosphamide. primary definitive treatment comprised amputation or limb salvage (tios i and tios iii). patients treated with preoperative cdp and surgery (tios i and iii) had a 62% survival. patients in tios ii refused surgical extirpation; they were treated exclusively with chemotherapy and had a 23% survival. survival in patients treated with amputation was 55% and limb salvage 58%. prognostic factors considered significant in relation to development of pulmonary metastases comprised tumor burden (p = .04) and the percentage of tumor necrosis induced by preoperative chemotherapy (p = .01). histopathologic subtype was marginally significant: chondroblastic was more favorable as opposed to osteoblastic (p = .05). these findings are compared with results and prognostic factors published in the literature.
family psychoeducation, social skills training, and maintenance chemotherapy in the aftercare treatment of schizophrenia. ii. two-year effects of a controlled study on relapse and adjustment. environmental-personal indicators in the course of schizophrenia (epics) research group. we demonstrated earlier that a novel family psychoeducational approach and an individual social skills training approach designed for patients living in high-expressed emotion households each reduced schizophrenic relapse by one-half when compared with medication controls in the 1st year after hospital discharge. the combination of treatments resulted in no relapse. results have now been obtained after 2 years of continuous treatment. by 24 months, a persistent and significant effect of family intervention on forestalling relapse was observed, but the effect of social skills training was lost late in the 2nd year. there was no additive effect on relapse that accrued to the combination of treatments. beyond 2 years, however, the effect of family intervention was likely compromised as well. treatment effects on the adjustment of survivors were circumscribed, due, in part, to study design characteristics. effects generally favored the social skills-alone condition at 1 year and the family condition or combined family/social skills condition at 2 years.
increasing annual incidence of primary malignant brain tumors in the elderly between 1973 and 1985, total age-adjusted cancer incidence in the united states (all races, men and women) rose by 10.7%, with an average annual percentage change of +0.9%. analysis of reported age-specific incidence of primary malignant brain tumors over the same years demonstrates that incidence rates increased dramatically between 1973/1974 and 1985. in 1985, incidence rates for persons aged 75-79, 80-84, and 85 years of age and over were 187%, 394%, and 501%, respectively, of rates in 1973/1974. similar increases were found in both men and women, analyzed separately and combined. average annual percentage changes in primary brain tumor incidence were +7.0%, +20.4%, and +23.4% in these age ranges, respectively. reported incidence in younger persons varied little over the same period of time. the most common histologic type of primary brain tumor in the elderly was of glial origin, predominantly the glioblastoma multiforme and astrocytoma. these tumors are highly malignant and invariably fatal. two possible causes may explain the increased incidence in the elderly: the introduction and extensive use of x-ray computed tomography since 1973 and/or a true increase in incidence occurring independently of diagnostic advances.
comparison of algorithms of testing for use in automated evaluation of sensation. estimates of vibratory detection threshold may be used to detect, characterize, and follow the course of sensory abnormality in neurologic disease. the approach is especially useful in epidemiologic and controlled clinical trials. we studied which algorithm of testing and finding threshold should be used in automatic systems by comparing among algorithms and stimulus conditions for the index finger of healthy subjects and for the great toe of patients with mild neuropathy. appearance thresholds obtained by linear ramps increasing at a rate less than 4.15 microns/sec provided accurate and repeatable thresholds compared with thresholds obtained by forced-choice testing. these rates would be acceptable if only sensitive sites were studied, but they were too slow for use in automatic testing of insensitive parts. appearance thresholds obtained by fast linear rates (4.15 or 16.6 microns/sec) overestimated threshold, especially for sensitive parts. use of the mean of appearance and disappearance thresholds, with the stimulus increasing exponentially at rates of 0.5 or 1.0 just noticeable difference (jnd) units per second, and interspersion of null stimuli, bekesy with null stimuli, provided accurate, repeatable, and fast estimates of threshold for sensitive parts. despite the good performance of bekesy testing, we prefer forced choice for evaluation of the sensation of patients with neuropathy.
the exeter dysphagia assessment technique. the exeter dysphagia assessment technique (edat) uses noninvasive equipment to record, simultaneously, "feeding respiratory patterns," the time drink entered the mouth, and associated swallow sounds during feeding. the easily portable equipment enabled patients' swallowing ability to be tested, at the bedside if necessary, using a small amount of fruit-flavored drink. the results appear in chart form. edat findings from groups of normal subjects aged 2-90 years were compared with those from patients with dysphagia of neurologic origin and normal subjects under experimental feeding conditions. the results revealed maturation of the feeding respiratory pattern in the teenage years and remarkable consistency thereafter. differences in the recordings between the normal and abnormal subjects were sufficiently marked to allow the findings to be used in the diagnosis of other patients with dysphagia of doubtful neurologic cause. interpretation of the charts and recorded timings of the oral and pharyngeal stages of swallowing permitted a more accurate identification of sensory nerve, motor nerve, and functional involvement causing dysphagia of neurologic origin and may be used as a guide to the origin of the sensory deficit.
haemostatic changes during continuous oestradiol-progestogen treatment of postmenopausal women. to identify changes in haemostatic balance during continuous oestradiol-progestogen treatment, 60 postmenopausal women with climacteric complaints, mean age 55.4 years (range 44-68) were randomly allocated to receive one of four hormone replacement regimens for one year. all four formulations were administered daily and continuously, each contained 2 mg of 17 beta-oestradiol in combination with either norethisterone acetate, 1 mg (group a) or 0.5 mg (group b) or megestrol acetate, 5 mg (group c) or 2.5 mg (group d). no significant changes occurred during treatment within or between the groups in platelet count, fibrinogen and 2-antiplasmin. activated partial thromboplastin time was shortened (p less than 0.05) in group d and a decline in factor vii activity and antigen (p less than 0.001) and in atiii activity (p less than 0.05) was noted in group a. protein c tended to decline in all treatment groups but statistically significant changes were noted only in groups a and c. two women developed crural thrombosis during the observation period.
idiopathic gastroparesis is associated with a multiplicity of severe dietary deficiencies. idiopathic gastroparesis (ig), a disorder characterized by abnormally delayed emptying of food from the stomach, is associated with many symptoms that could have an impact on dietary intake. the intake of dietary protein, carbohydrate, fat, fiber, vitamins, and minerals was prospectively evaluated in patients with symptomatic ig and compared with asymptomatic controls. twenty-four patients and 24 age- and sex-matched controls completed a detailed 7-day diet record while consuming a self-selected diet. dietary information was entered into a computer and analyzed using the nutranal program. results were expressed as daily intake and percent recommended dietary allowance (%rda) when applicable. patients consumed a diet containing fewer calories than would have been predicted based on age, height, sex, frame, and weight (85% of calculated energy expenditure vs 100%) for controls. although patients with ig consumed significantly fewer calories than controls (1112 kcal vs 1431 kcal), the proportion of fat (32% vs 34%), carbohydrate (49% vs 48%), and protein (17% vs 16%) was similar in the two groups. intake of vitamins b6, vitamin c, folate, niacin, riboflavin, thiamine, calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, and zinc were below the %rda. intake of vitamin b12, vitamin c, folate, thiamine, niacin, magnesium, phosphorus, and zinc were significantly less than controls. vitamin a intake was above the rda and not different from that of controls. prolonged t1/2 of solids correlated with diminished intake of protein, iron, niacin, and potassium. they correlated inversely with serum albumin in patients with idiopathic gastroparesis. conclusion: although eating less, patients with ig do not consistently alter the proportion of fat, carbohydrate, and protein in their diets. because their diet is markedly deficient in a number of essential vitamins and minerals, dietary evaluation and counseling is suggested for all patients with idiopathic gastroparesis.
dwarf locus mutants lacking three pituitary cell types result from mutations in the pou-domain gene pit-1. mutations at the mouse dwarf locus (dw) interrupt the normal development of the anterior pituitary gland, resulting in the loss of expression of growth hormone, prolactin and thyroid-stimulating hormone, and hypoplasia of their respective cell types. disruptions in the gene encoding the pou-domain transcription factor, pit-1, occur in both characterized alleles of the dwarf locus. the data indicate that pit-1 is necessary for the specification of the phenotype of three cell types in the anterior pituitary, and directly link a transcription factor to commitment and progression events in mammalian organogenesis.
metastatic carcinoma of the gallbladder from renal cancer presenting as intraluminal polypoid mass. we report a rare case of secondary involvement of the gallbladder by metastatic renal cell carcinoma. a 71-year-old man was diagnosed as having a polypoid mass within the gallbladder when he underwent right nephrectomy for a renal cell carcinoma. a preoperative diagnosis of simultaneous carcinoma of the gallbladder was made, and extended cholecystectomy with regional lymphadenectomy was performed five months after the initial operation. postoperative histological examination of the polypoid mass within the gallbladder and a pancreatic mass excised during the second surgery revealed these resected tumors to be identical to the clear cell type of renal cell carcinoma. we feel that this case presents synchronous involvement of the gallbladder and pancreas by metastatic renal cell carcinoma of the right kidney.
postpneumonectomy syndrome after left lung resection. a female infant with a right-sided aortic arch and ligamentum arteriosum underwent a left pneumonectomy for perinatal interstitial emphysema. radiographic, bronchoscopic, and surgical evidence of compression of the right bronchial tree by the aorta, ligamentum arteriosum, right pulmonary artery, and thoracic spine subsequently developed. this report documents a rare example of postpneumonectomy syndrome following left lung resection.
treatment of severe intraventricular hemorrhage by intraventricular infusion of urokinase. six patients with severe intraventricular hemorrhage were treated with direct intraventricular infusion of urokinase. in each case, hemorrhage extended into all ventricular chambers, and a cast formation and expansion of the third and fourth ventricles were found. immediately after the therapy was started (within 7 days from onset of symptoms), reduction of intraventricular hematoma volume was observed on computerized tomography. on average, both the third and fourth ventricles became clear on the third day after hemorrhage; there was one exception, a case of ruptured aneurysm. five of the six patients showed excellent or good outcome, although two developed delayed hydrocephalus. no infection or rebleeding was observed. the outcome in a retrospectively studied group of five patients not treated with urokinase is also reported. the authors conclude that this relatively easy method of treatment will greatly improve the prognosis of severe intraventricular hemorrhage.
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion. a case report. adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus. such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts. since standard therapy, oophorectomy, was performed, the patient was surgically castrated. a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation, except when necrotic.
combination therapy for anaplastic giant cell thyroid carcinoma. since 1981, 20 patients with anaplastic giant cell carcinoma of the thyroid have been prospectively treated according to a combination regimen of chemotherapy and external beam radiation therapy. two types of chemotherapy were used every 4 weeks, depending on the patient's age. for those younger than 65 years, a combination of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and cisplatin (90 mg/m2) was given, and for older patients mitoxantrone (14 mg/m2) was used. radiotherapy was carried out between day 10 and day 20 of the first four cycles of chemotherapy. it delivered 17.5 gy in 7 fractions to the neck and the superior mediastinum. survival exceeding 20 months was observed in three patients. complete neck tumor response was observed in five patients, among whom four had undergone previous operations. no response was seen in distant metastases, which were the cause of death in 14 patients. these treatment modalities are effective in some patients, both in terms of survival and of local control, avoiding death from local invasion. gross tumor resection should be performed whenever possible but should not delay the commencement of this protocol. toxicity was high and remains the main limiting factor.
surgical therapy of the eyelids in patients with facial paralysis. patients with facial paralysis have a degree of lagophthalmos and paralytic ectropion. we present our experience in the surgical management of 25 consecutive patients treated for these problems. paralytic lagophthalmos was corrected using gold weights inserted into the upper eyelid. the advantages and disadvantages of this surgical technique are reviewed. medial canthoplasty and lateral canthoplasty were performed to rectify paralytic ectropion. ancillary procedures included browpexy, upper-lid blepharoplasty, and temporalis sling. the results were excellent in 23 of 25 patients and good in the remaining two. after a minimum of 6 months' follow-up, there were no complications. the authors believe that the above procedures will yield consistently excellent cosmetic and functional results in patients with paralysis of the eyelids.
drug response at electropharmacologic study in patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias: the importance of ventricular refractoriness. the clinical and electrophysiologic predictors of successful antiarrhythmic drug therapy for patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia were evaluated in 59 consecutive patients undergoing serial electropharmacologic trials. structural heart disease was less frequently present in patients for whom effective therapy was found (p less than 0.05). the presence of coronary artery disease and a history of prior myocardial infarction were significantly more frequently present in patients for whom antiarrhythmic drug therapy could not be found (p less than 0.05). the corrected qt interval and ventricular effective refractory period measured at a pacing cycle length of 400 ms were significantly shorter in responders compared with nonresponders (qt interval 428 +/- 52 versus 460 +/- 59 ms; ventricular effective refractory period 237 +/- 28 versus 254 +/- 24 ms; (p less than 0.05). in addition, the interelectrogram coupling interval of the ventricular extrastimulus initiating ventricular tachycardia was significantly shorter in responders compared with nonresponders (223 +/- 37 versus 251 +/- 33 ms; p = 0.003). logistic regression analysis identified a short ventricular interelectrogram coupling interval (p less than 0.01) and absence of prior myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05) as the only independent predictors of antiarrhythmic drug suppression of the induction of ventricular tachycardia. greater drug-induced increments in the ventricular effective and functional refractory periods were observed in responders than in nonresponders as was the shortest ventricular interelectrogram coupling interval. thus, baseline electrophysiologic measurements identify patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia who are likely to respond to antiarrhythmic drug therapy. furthermore, these patients demonstrate greater drug-induced electrophysiologic changes.
adoptive immunotherapy of human pancreatic cancer with lymphokine-activated killer cells and interleukin-2 in a nude mouse model. a pancreatic cancer cell line was grown in orthotopic and heterotopic positions in young swiss/nih nude mice, which were tested with adoptive immunotherapy. mice were injected with 1 x 10(7) human cancer cells in the subcutaneous tissue and duodenal lobe of the pancreas. the mice were randomly divided into four groups: group ia (lak + il-2) (n = 25) received 2 x 10(7) human lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells from normal donors by tail vein injection followed by 10,000 units of human recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) given intraperitoneally every 12 hours for 28 days; group ib (il-2) (n = 27) was given the same dose of il-2 alone; group ic (rpmi-1640) (n = 18) received a placebo consisting of 1 ml of rpmi-1640 intraperitoneally every 12 hours; and group id (lak) (n = 14) received 2 x 10(7) lak cells but no il-2. toxicity was significantly higher in group ib, with a mortality rate of 45.5% (10/22 animals) versus a 0% mortality (0/25) in group ia. none of the group ia or ib animals died of pancreatic cancer during the experiment. the animals that did not receive il-2 died before 28 days in 14.2% of group ic and in 16.7% of group id. the area under the growth curve of subcutaneous tumors during the course of treatment and the pancreatic tumor weight at the end of treatment were compared in each group. subcutaneous tumors had a reduced rate of growth in group ia animals compared to all the other treatments. pancreatic tumor growth was slowed in group ia. the animals treated with il-2 alone (group ib) showed some slowing of tumor growth that was intermediate between group ia, group ic, and group id. a similar experiment was done with irradiated (375 rad) mice. nine nude mice with tumors were treated with lak + il-2 (group iia), eight received il-2 alone (group iib), and seven received placebo (group iic). the antitumor effect of il-2 alone was not present in the irradiated mice. a highly significant difference persisted between group iia and all other groups. there was no difference in the histologic characteristics of tumors in control mice and in mice with inhibited tumor growth treated with il-2 or il-2 and human lak cells. these results show that adoptive immunotherapy with human lak cells and human recombinant il-2 is effective against human pancreatic cancer growing in nude mice. this effect is independent from antitumor activity from il-2 administrations alone.
long-term outcome of massive small bowel resection. the long-term outcome for seven patients 4-17 yr (mean 7.1 yr) after massive small bowel resection, leaving 5-160 cm (mean 86.4) of small bowel, was reviewed. their mean age at the final enterectomy was 40 yr. adaptation to foodstuffs and the effects of physiologic alterations and complicating diseases on their return to work were emphasized. more than 3.5 yr after surgery, the patients had adapted to many kinds of foodstuffs, but dietary fat could not be tolerated by three patients. six patients returned to work an average of 2.7 yr after surgery, but four were obliged to discontinue their work because of rehospitalization for long-term complications. in addition, their working hours were limited, and they could not engage in heavy physical work, owing to physiologic alterations, such as a reduced metabolic state, after massive enterectomy.
a study of cyproheptadine in the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor and the malignant carcinoid syndrome. sixteen patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and the malignant carcinoid syndrome were treated with cyproheptadine (periactin, merck, sharp & dohme, west point, pa) at maximum tolerable doses that ranged from 12 to 48 mg daily. usual side effects were mild sedation and dry mouth, but three patients found it impossible to sustain treatment due to nausea and vomiting. most patients had significant relief of diarrhea, frequently associated with weight gain. relief of flushing was uncommon. the therapeutic benefit produced by cyproheptadine would appear to be a peripheral effect because 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-hiaa) excretion in these patients was not reduced. although there have been case reports of objective tumor regression with cyproheptadine therapy, this was not observed in any of these 16 patients. cyproheptadine would appear to be a useful therapeutic tool for the management of diarrhea associated with the malignant carcinoid syndrome. an appropriate initial total daily dose is 0.4 mg/kg divided in three fractions with prompt modification to produce minimal and tolerable side effects.
immunocytochemical characterization of lung tumors in fine-needle aspiration. the use of cytokeratin monoclonal antibodies for the differential diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. in the current study, immunocytochemical typing of intermediate filaments was used for a differential diagnosis of human lung tumors from transthoracic fine-needle aspiration biopsies (tfnab). the authors have compared the cytologic diagnosis of 53 lung cancer cases with the immunofluorescence patterns obtained using a panel of monoclonal antibodies, five of which (kg 8.13, km 4.62, ks b.17, ks 8.12, kk 8.60) react with specific cytokeratin polypeptides and one with vimentin (vim 13.2). only in six of 23 samples cytologically diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma did the immunocytochemical typing of cytokeratins (ictc) confirm the cytologic diagnosis. in seven cases some of the tumor cells stained positively with antibody ks b.17 specific for simple epithelial keratin (no: 18), suggesting the presence of some cells of glandular origin. in ten additional cases the ictc was in conflict with the cytologic diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma (i.e., antibodies ks 8.12 and kk 8.60 were negative, and antibody ks b.17, positive) supporting a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma. in 14 of 18 cases cytologically diagnosed as adenocarcinoma, the ictc confirmed the diagnosis whereas in four cases additional presence of some squamous cells was noticed. the ictc labeling of cases cytologically diagnosed as undifferentiated and large cell carcinomas was similar to that of the group of adenocarcinomas. thus, the application of cytokeratin typing for tfnab samples seems to provide a vital complementation to routine cytologic study, especially for cases cytologically diagnosed as squamous carcinoma.
cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from nonneoplastic liver. the authors reviewed a series of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) specimens of the liver to identify useful cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) from nonneoplastic liver. ten cytologic features were examined in this study: high cellularity, acinar pattern, trabecular pattern, hyperchromasia, pleomorphism, irregularly granular chromatin, uniformly prominent nucleoli, multiple nucleoli, increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio, and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei. these features were examined in a series of 82 fnab specimens from 52 patients with hcc and 30 patients with nonneoplastic lesions. with the use of a step-wise logistic regression analysis, three features were identified as predictive of hcc: increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio (p = 0.001), trabecular pattern (p = 0.002), and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei (p = 0.03). when these three criteria were used, the sensitivity of diagnosing hcc by fnab was 100%, and the specificity was 87%.
preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality. intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient. transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common. the effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear. previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a t lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure b. fragilis abscess formation. in a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model, preexposure to live escherichia coli, b. fragilis, or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition. further, immunization with e. coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality. these data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live, transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction.
the development of infratentorial atrophy in patients with idiopathic cerebellar ataxia of late onset: a ct study. the development of infratentorial atrophy in six patients suffering from idiopathic cerebellar ataxia of late onset was studied by a retrospective evaluation of consecutive computed tomography (ct) scans. four patients had evidence of olivopontocerebellar atrophy (opca) both on clinical testing and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). in these four patients, atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem became visible at the same time and progressed in a roughly parallel manner, whereas in the remaining two the brain stem was left intact. in all patients with opca, definite brain-stem atrophy was visible earlier than the appearance of non-cerebellar clinical symptoms. the present data suggest that ct investigations at regular intervals may be of prognostic value in cerebellar ataxias.
hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury. hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury is an extremely rare entity, and evidence by only five cases that have been reported in the medical literature to date. we report five additional cases encountered in two medical centers. two of these were ruptured corpus luteum cysts, one was a laceration of the round ligament, another was a laceration of an ovary, and the fifth was rupture of a serous cystadenoma. this diagnosis should be considered in patients with hemoperitoneum after coitus.
snow skiing for the physically disabled. the sport of snow skiing by the physically disabled, which originated in europe in 1935 and first received attention in the united states in the 1940s, is reviewed in terms of opportunities available, instructions, adaptive equipment necessary, and benefits provided. persons with a wide variety of disabilities (such as cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, hemiplegia, amputation, blindness, spina bifida, and muscular dystrophy) can participate. accordingly, a wide range of adaptive equipment is available--including outrigger skis, flip-skis, canting wedges, ski bras, "toe spreaders," sit-skis, and mono-skis--to allow safe enjoyment of the sport. programs for instruction of the disabled skier are increasing in number and popularity, and numerous opportunities are available to enter competitive events sponsored by national handicapped sports. both the participants and the instructors relate the numerous physical and psychologic benefits that can be derived from skiing; the sport provides an almost universal enjoyment of the sense of freedom and independence. snow skiing is an enjoyable, beneficial, outdoor cold-weather activity that the disabled population can safely learn with proper instruction.
epidemiologic features of asymptomatic cerebral infarction in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. we performed unenhanced computed tomographic scans on 141 asymptomatic patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. thirty-six patients (26%) had hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction. the majority of these were small deep infarcts, seen in 29 patients (21%), but 13 patients (9%) had cortical or large deep infarctions. twelve patients had more than one infarct on computed tomographic scan. increasing age and increased left atrial diameter were the only clinical features associated with asymptomatic infarction. patients older than 65 years with a left atrial diameter greater than 5.0 cm (n = 23) had a 52% prevalence of asymptomatic infarction. patients younger than 65 years with a left atrial diameter less than 5.0 cm (n = 38) had an 11% prevalence of silent infarction. patients with only one of these risk factors (n = 72) had a 24% prevalence of silent infarction. infarction was more common in those with chronic (34%) as opposed to intermittent (22%) nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but this difference was not significant. hypertension, diabetes, duration of atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, history of myocardial infarction, and echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction were not associated with asymptomatic infarction. a history of hypertension was present in only 35% of our patients with small-deep asymptomatic infarction, similar to the percentage in patients without stroke. asymptomatic cerebral infarction is common in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. the association with enlarged left atria and the lack of correlation with major cerebrovascular risk factors suggests a cardioembolic mechanism. further study is needed to determine the functional and prognostic significance of these strokes.
acute epididymitis: why patient and consort must be investigated. in this prospective study of 49 patients under 35 years of age with clinically diagnosed epididymitis, detailed microbiological investigation identified an infective cause in 67%. chlamydia trachomatis was the commonest agent, present in 25 patients, but in 12 of these detection was based solely on raised antibody titres; 20 of the 28 female consorts screened were partners of men with chlamydial epididymitis and 80% of them were also positive for this infection. isolating the micro-organism from 14 of 16 consorts indicated active infection despite the negative swabs from the men. if this important infection is to be adequately treated we recommend that all patients in this age group with epididymitis and their partners should be referred to a specialist unit with access to full chlamydia laboratory facilities.
urovirulence determinants in escherichia coli isolates causing first-episode and recurrent cystitis in women. to assess the prevalence of urovirulence determinants among escherichia coli isolates from women with acute uncomplicated cystitis, 121 isolates from 87 women with first-episode or recurrent cystitis and 156 fecal isolates from 52 women without recent urinary tract infection were tested using dna probes for p fimbriae, hemolysin, aerobactin, and diffuse adhesin and for expression of hemolysin and p and f adhesins. p fimbrial genotype (p = .002), hemolysin phenotype (p = .007), and the diffuse adhesin determinant (p = .03), but not aerobactin, were found more frequently in e. coli from women with acute cystitis, and expression of the f adhesin (41%) was more common than the p adhesin (24%; p = .001). e. coli isolates that caused cystitis in women using diaphragms had fewer virulence determinants than those from nonusers (p = .04), suggesting that diaphragm use may allow infection with less virulent e. coli.
endosonography in the localization of parathyroid tumors: a preliminary study. a preoperative transesophageal exploration of the parathyroids by endosonography was performed on 23 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. the system used was a 7.5 mhz transducer mounted on the tip of an endoscope with an external diameter of 13 mm. the field of visualization was 360 degrees. a retrograde exploration was done moving up from the aortic arch to the upper esophageal sphincter. all patients underwent surgery afterward, and adenomas were found. in 12 cases the adenoma was visualized. all 12 adenomas were posteriorly located on the right side (four cases) and left side (eight cases) of the esophagus. nine of these 12 tumors were on the posterior face of the thyroid lobes, with six tumors in the middle one third of the thyroid lobe and three in the lower one third of the thyroid lobe. the other three tumors were located below the lower pole of the thyroid lobes in the upper posterior mediastinum. mean tumor weight was 1165 mg. of the 11 tumors that could not be visualized, eight tumors were anteriorly located; three of these tumors were on the anterior and lateral surface of the lower pole of the thyroid, and five were in the thyrothymic tracts. the remaining three tumors were located on the back of the thyroid lobes; two of these tumors were at the upper esophageal sphincter, and one was on the side of the pharynx. mean tumor size was 1334 mg. localization of parathyroid tumors by endosonography appears possible but only if lesions are located posteriorly, close to the esophagus. endosonography is not indicated before routine cervical exploration for primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism. as in other such studies, endosonography could be useful in cases of persistent or recurrent hyperparathyroidism.
reversible cardiogenic shock due to chest tube compression of the right ventricle. a 62-year-old woman developed shock immediately after the insertion of a right-sided chest tube. a chest roentgenogram showed the chest tube to be overlying the heart and possibly compressing the right ventricle. an animal model was developed to replicate this clinical situation. using a domestic goat model pulmonary artery, peripheral arterial catheters were inserted along with a right sided chest tube placed to suction. a second chest tube guided by a flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope placed within its lumen was positioned between the right ventricle and the sternum of the animals. thirteen paired measurements in three goats (average of 4.3 measurements per animal) of cardiac output, heart rate, and mean arterial blood pressure were made at baseline and after chest tube placement over the right ventricle. the data were analyzed using a paired t test statistic. compared with baseline measurements, there was a significant decrease in cardiac output (p less than 0.001) and mean arterial pressure (p less than 0.001) as well as an increase in heart rate (p = 0.0056) after placement of the chest tube across the right ventricle. we conclude that a misplaced chest tube compressing the right ventricle can impede cardiac output and lead to a low cardiac output state. physicians inserting chest tubes in patients should be aware of this potential complication as it is easily treated by withdrawal of the chest tube.
magnetic resonance in pediatric and adolescent neuroimaging. with improved availability and a practical understanding of the principles of utilization, mri will continue to replace ct and us in pediatric neuroimaging, just as it has impacted upon the more invasive modalities. in general, us remains the procedure of choice for screening of fetal and infant cns abnormalities, and ct continues as the principal screening modality beyond infancy and especially for acute, emergent presentations. mri has now emerged as a primary option for screening as well as for more definitive assessment of many intracranial and most intraspinal conditions.
evidence for intraluminal ca++ regulatory site defect in sarcoplasmic reticulum from malignant hyperthermia pig muscle. malignant hyperthermia (mh) is a pharmacogenetic disease of humans and various animal species that predisposes to a life-threatening, anesthetic agent-induced syndrome. mh is thought to be a consequence of abnormal, sustained increases in myoplasmic ca++ and sarcoplasmic reticulum (sr) membranes from mh muscle have been shown to have a ca++ release channel defect. in the present study we have tested a hypothesis that the abnormal ca++ release mechanism in mh can be expressed when ca++ is loaded in the presence of pyrophosphate. sr membrane vesicles isolated from normal and mh pig muscle were loaded with ca++ in the presence and absence of pyrophosphate until ca(++)-induced ca++ release occurred. under both circumstances the threshold amount of ca++ loaded until ca++ release occurred was lower in the sr from mh pig skeletal muscle. this difference in amount of ca++ preload is not explained by results obtained comparing rates of ca++ uptake, number of ryanodine binding sites or the amounts of calsequestrin among sr vesicles from mh and normal muscle. we conclude from this study that use of pyrophosphate for ca++ loading does not ablate the abnormal ca++ release in sr from mh muscle, suggesting the study can be done on small amounts of sr from biopsied human muscle. the data also suggest that abnormality in an intraluminal, low affinity ca++ binding site regulating ca++ release occurs in the sr membrane of mh pig muscle.
unknown primary squamous cell carcinoma metastatic to the neck. we analyzed retrospectively 157 cases of metastatic neck squamous cell carcinoma from unknown primary sites, treated with surgery, radiotherapy, excisional biopsy, and combined modalities. median follow-up was 74 months, and overall actuarial survival was 55% at 5 years. the surgery-treated group, despite a higher rate of manifesting primary tumors, had significantly better survival at 5 years compared with those receiving radiation therapy, of whom 23% had residual disease after treatment. primary tumors were discovered during follow-up in 16% overall. different treatments yielded comparable results in lower-staged neck disease (nx, n1, n2a), while surgery appeared more effective in controlling advanced disease (n2b, n3a). factors that affected survival include neck stage, connective tissue invasion, and presence of recurrent or residual disease after treatment.
safety of same-day sequential extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and dissolution of gallstones by methyl tert-butyl ether in dogs. passage of stone fragments after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) of gallstones has resulted in biliary colic, duct obstruction, and pancreatitis in some patients. rapid dissolution of these fragments with methyl tert-butyl ether (mtbe) may prevent such side effects and achieve complete clearance of gallstones within hours rather than several months to a year or longer. this study examines the safety of same-day eswl fragmentation and mtbe dissolution of surgically implanted human gallstones in 15 dogs. the animals were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups to assess mtbe absorption from the gallbladder and to observe hematology and chemistry profiles after 0, 400, and 1,200 shock waves from a lithotriptor followed by mtbe dissolution therapy. they were sacrificed either immediately after treatment (12 dogs) or 2 weeks later (3 dogs). the results demonstrated that although eswl causes moderate trauma to the gallbladder, this did not result in increased mtbe absorption or histologic evidence of mucosal disruption. blood profiles demonstrated an increase in only the level of aspartate aminotransferase. the three dogs that were sacrificed 2 weeks after the combined treatment had no residual evidence of gallbladder injury or remaining stone material. in all animals, severe injury occurred where shock waves passed through lung or air-filled colon. this study suggests that same-day sequential fragmentation of gallstones by eswl followed by dissolution of stone fragments with use of mtbe may be associated with only mild to moderate and reversible gallbladder trauma and can rapidly achieve clearance of gallstones.
prognostic factors in gestational trophoblastic tumors: a proposed new scoring system based on multivariate analysis. all 1391 patients treated for gestational trophoblastic tumors (invasive mole and choriocarcinoma) at the john i. brewer trophoblastic disease center of northwestern university between 1969 (when use of combination chemotherapy for initial treatment of high-risk disease came into general use) and 1988 were evaluated. univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine the relative importance of prognostic factors with respect to survival. the overall cure rate was 93% (363/391): 100% for 223 patients with nonmetastatic disease and 83% for 168 patients with metastatic disease. the only patients who died had a clinicopathologic diagnosis of metastatic choriocarcinoma. in addition to presence of metastasis (83% vs 100%, p less than 0.0001) and diagnosis of choriocarcinoma (67% vs 100%, p less than 0.0001), number of metastases (47% if greater than 8 vs 92% if less than or equal to 8, p less than 0.0001), metastases to sites other than the lung or vagina (52% vs 91%, p = 0.0002), and previous failed chemotherapy (46% vs 84%, p = 0.0014) demonstrated independent significant effects on survival in patients with metastatic disease. a brewer score, based on our multivariate analysis of survival in patients with metastatic disease, provided predictability of outcome (likelihood ratio chi 2 statistic, chi 2 = 49.8) comparable to that with the world health organization score (chi 2 = 45.3), both of which, in turn, were better predictors than either the traditional hammond clinical classification system (chi 2 = 34.4) or the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage (chi 2 = 22.9).
contamination of peripheral blood stem cell harvests by circulating neuroblastoma cells. peripheral blood stem cells (pbsc) are being used as one alternative to autologous marrow rescue for patients with neuroblastoma and other solid malignancies. some physicians prefer use of pbsc because less risk of tumor contamination is believed to exist. this hypothesis was evaluated by immunocytologic analysis of blood samples and concurrently drawn bone marrow (bm) samples and of pbsc harvests obtained from 31 patients with disseminated neuroblastoma. we found circulating neoplastic cells in 75% of specimens analyzed at diagnosis, in 36% during therapy, and in 14% of pbsc harvests. tumor cells in blood obtained during therapy did not appear until 3 months after the time of diagnosis. clearance of circulating neuroblastoma cells was documented after two courses of induction chemotherapy. six of 13 patients with minimal or no bm disease had positive blood specimens. we conclude that substantial risk of tumor contamination of pb harvests exists and recommend that induction chemotherapy be administered before hematopoietic progenitor cells are collected from blood.
complete spontaneous regression of multiple basal cell carcinomas in the basal cell nevus syndrome: the possible role of transepithelial elimination. a 36-year-old latin american man with the basal cell nevus syndrome had multiple, soft, hairless, depressed scars of the face, scalp, neck, and back, ranging in size from 0.3 x 0.5 cm to 3.5 x 3.9 cm. these areas had never been treated and previously were sites of basal cell carcinomas that underwent complete spontaneous regression 4-5 years from the date of onset. pathology of these spontaneously regressed sites was consistent with the criteria established by curson and weedon (1979). type iii transepithelial elimination was demonstrated for a basal cell carcinoma. type iii transepithelial elimination may play a role in the spontaneous regression of basal cell carcinomas.
effect of towne live virus vaccine on cytomegalovirus disease after renal transplant. a controlled trial objective: to test the efficacy of vaccination with the towne live attenuated cytomegalovirus vaccine. design: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial in candidates for renal transplantation. the cytomegalovirus serologic status of both recipients and donors were determined, and the recipients were followed for periods of 6 months to 7 years after transplant. setting: a university transplant center. patients: the analyses were made on 237 patients who were given either vaccine or placebo, received renal transplants, and were followed for at least 6 months. intervention: subcutaneous inoculation with towne live attenuated virus or with placebo. main outcome measures: the presence of cytomegalovirus infection was defined by virus isolation and antibody tests. if infection occurred, a prearranged scoring system for cytomegalovirus disease was used to objectify disease severity. results: the vaccine was well tolerated, and there were no discernible long-term adverse effects. recipients who were originally seropositive did not clearly benefit from vaccination. protective efficacy was analyzed in the group at highest risk for cytomegalovirus disease; recipients who were seronegative at the time of vaccination and who received a kidney from a seropositive donor. compared with placebo recipients, vaccinated patients in this group had significantly less severe cytomegalovirus disease, with a significant reduction in disease scores (p = 0.03) and 85% decrease in the most severe disease (95% ci, 35% to 96%), although infection rates were similar. graft survival at 36 months was improved in vaccinated recipients of cadaver kidneys (8 of 16) compared with unvaccinated recipients (4 of 16) (p = 0.04). conclusions: previous vaccination of seronegative renal transplant recipients with live cytomegalovirus results in reduction of disease severity mimicking the action of naturally derived immunity.
somatostatin prevents acute pancreatitis after pancreatic duct sphincter hydrostatic balloon dilation in patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. the purpose of this study was to determine whether prophylactic somatostatin infusion can prevent pancreatitis after hydrostatic balloon dilation of the pancreatic duct sphincter segment in 16 patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. this study demonstrated that prophylactic administration of somatostatin before, during, and after the procedure diminished the incidence and severity of acute pancreatitis. we recommend consideration of such prophylaxis in patients undergoing this procedure.
management of symptomatic lymphocele via percutaneous drainage and sclerotherapy with tetracycline. lymph collections following pelvic surgery are usually asymptomatic, but may occasionally produce symptoms requiring invasive therapy. we have successfully obliterated a large lymphocele by employing percutaneous drainage and instilling tetracycline.
nasopalatine duct cyst: an analysis of 334 cases. the nasopalatine duct cyst (npdc) is the most common cyst of nonodontogenic origin in the maxilla. however, the information reported about this lesion consists primarily of small surveys and isolated case reports. the purpose of this retrospective investigation was to gather demographic, clinical, and histologic data on a large series of npdcs, and to compare the findings with those of previous studies. in this study, the overall mean age at diagnosis was 42.5 years, and there was a slight male predilection. the mean radiographic diameter was 17.1 mm, but 75% of the lesions were 20 mm or less in diameter. symptoms were present in at least 70% of the cases. only 28% of the specimens contained respiratory epithelium. there was no correlation between radiographic size, patient's age, presenting symptoms, or type of epithelium. recurrence was noted in only 2% of the cases.
intramedullary spinal cord germinoma: case report. a case of intramedullary spinal cord germinoma within the conus medullaris, with lumbago and pain in the lower extremities, is presented. the intramedullary spinal cord germinoma was determined by a biopsy specimen. after local irradiation of 50 gy, the tumor markedly decreased in size and clinical symptoms disappeared.
prolonged anginal perceptual threshold in diabetes: effects on exercise capacity and myocardial ischemia. anginal perceptual threshold (the time from onset of 0.1 mv of st segment depression to onset of angina during treadmill exercise) is prolonged in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease. in the present study, the functional significance of this perceptual abnormality was evaluated by analysis of its effect on exercise capacity and the severity of myocardial ischemia. treadmill exercise in 32 diabetic patients and 36 nondiabetic control patients showed a close linear correlation between the time to onset of electrical ischemia (st segment depression) and exercise capacity in both groups (r = 0.8 and 0.9, respectively; p less than 0.001). however, the slope of the relation was flatter in the diabetic group because prolongation of the anginal perceptual threshold permitted continued exercise as ischemia intensified. the anginal perceptual threshold itself showed a close linear correlation with exercise capacity in the diabetic group (r = 0.8, p less than 0.001), although in the nondiabetic group these variables were unrelated. the permissive effect of a prolonged anginal perceptual threshold on exercise capacity is undesirable as reflected by its correlation with ischemia at peak exercise (r = 0.6, p less than 0.001): the longer the threshold, the greater the exercise capacity and the more severe the ischemia. indeed, the inverse relation between the severity of ischemia at peak exercise and exercise capacity in the nondiabetic group (r = 0.4, p less than 0.02) was completely lost in the diabetic group. thus, in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease, anginal perceptual threshold is a major determinant of exercise capacity.
feasibility of intraoperative cytodiagnosis of lung cancer. of 354 thoracotomies, 114 cases involved intraoperative cytopathologic evaluation. the study included 86 men and 28 women, and 184 specimens were examined. smears were taken from the lung lesion or lymph node and the chest wall or bronchial stump by imprint or needle aspiration. intraoperative evaluations were compared with histologic findings. in 85 cases not diagnosed as malignant preoperatively, malignancy was confirmed in 97.6 percent of cases and histologic type in 71.8 percent. in the 28 cases diagnosed as malignant preoperatively, there was only one false-negative. the most important finding during thoracotomy is whether a lesion is malignant or not. the time required to obtain a pathologic diagnosis also is important. we are able to obtain the results of a cytologic diagnosis within 10 min. cytologic diagnosis of malignancy during thoractomy may be a feasible and convenient method of diagnosis, especially where malignancy is suspected.
continuous extracorporeal fluid removal in children with low cardiac output after cardiac operations. eleven hypervolemic and oliguric children with low cardiac output after cardiac operations were treated by slow continuous ultrafiltration or continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration. a mean negative fluid balance of 1.63 +/- 0.37 ml/kg/hr (standard error of the mean [sem]) significantly improved the hemodynamic status within 59 +/- 6.1 hours (sem). although the central venous pressure decreased significantly from 15.2 +/- 0.84 to 8.8 +/- 0.92 mm hg (p less than 0.0001), the mean arterial pressure increased significantly from 41.5 +/- 2.54 to 53.5 +/- 2.21 mm hg (p less than 0.001). in addition, ph increased significantly from 7.31 +/- 0.01 (sem) to 7.43 +/- 0.001 (sem) (p less than 0.001) and oxygenation index (arterial oxygen tension/inspired oxygen fraction) from 119 +/- 15.2 (sem) to 214 +/- 27.0 (sem) (p less than 0.001). hemodynamic improvement during slow continuous extracorporeal fluid removal allowed a significant decrease of the catecholamine infusion rate. after normovolemia had been achieved, continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration had to be continued in four children because of persistent anuria. eight patients could be weaned from artificial ventilation and vasopressor support. two patients died without recovery of renal function and one with restored renal function. slow continuous ultrafiltration and continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration improve the cardiovascular function in children with low cardiac output by optimizing the preload conditions of the failing heart. in addition, they improve acid-base balance and pulmonary gas exchange.
blood flow direction in the lumbar nerve root. the effect of clipping on lumbar nerve root blood flow rates in the region of the nerve root canal was studied experimentally in the hog. blood flow rate was measured using the hydrogen washout technique. when the entrance zone was clipped with a microvascular clip, blood flow rate of the nerve root was decreased by 37% in comparison with the initial control rate; clipping at the exit zone reduced blood flow rate by 69%. blood flow direction in the lumbar nerve root within the nerve root canal was found to be predominantly proximal. the current data indicate that the more lateral the impingement of the nerve root occurs, the more ischemic changes are induced.
the tangled web of coronary risk factors. although epidemiologic, genetic, and pathophysiologic studies have shown that low-density lipoproteins (ldls) are involved in the development of coronary artery disease, the standard measurement of ldl cholesterol comprises a number of separate components that may contribute in different ways to the disease process. some of these components appear to be of particular pathologic importance. intermediate-density lipoproteins (idls) and lipoprotein (a) are highly atherogenic species that each normally account for up to 10% to 15% total ldl cholesterol but may be disproportionately elevated in pathologic states and may therefore contribute disproportionately to coronary disease risk in certain patients. recently, another subclass of ldl, characterized by relatively small particle size and increased density, also has been found to be associated with relatively increased risk of coronary disease. furthermore, levels of this subclass, designated ldl-iii, are linked to a number of interrelated hormonal and metabolic factors, each of which have also been associated with risk of coronary artery disease. these include male gender, postmenopause, abdominal adiposity, elevated triglyceride levels, increased levels of apolipoprotein b, and reductions in high-density lipoproteins (hdls), particularly in the hdl2 subclass. other studies have demonstrated that many of these factors are also commonly associated with relative insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. thus, a lipoprotein profile characterized by a relative increase in ldl-iii and a reduction in hdl2 is indicative of a constellation of metabolic features that defines a high-risk state and that makes it extremely difficult to single out one or more factors that are most directly involved in the disease process. combinations of genetic and environmental factors acting on this "tangled web" of risk factors may account for much of the variation in coronary disease susceptibility found in the general population.
identification of viruses in a study of acute respiratory tract infection in children from uruguay. for the purpose of identifying viral agents associated with acute respiratory tract infections (ari) in children less than 5 years old, a longitudinal community study was undertaken in montevideo, uruguay, from may 1985 to december 1987. this report includes results obtained by cell culture and immunofluorescence techniques for detection of respiratory syncytial virus (rsv), influenza a and b viruses, parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses, and adenovirus. two populations were studied: children visited at home by pediatricians (group 1) and children with an ari episode who attended an outpatient clinic (group 2). nasopharyngeal aspirates were obtained at the time of an ari episode: 858 from group 1 and 488 from group 2. viruses were identified in 15.3% of group 1 specimens and in 17.6% of group 2 specimens. rsv was the most frequently recovered agent, accounting for 67.9% and 58.1%, respectively, of all viruses detected. the sensitivity and specificity of rsv isolation by cell culture are compared with detection by indirect immunofluorescence.
correlation of ultrasound guided and digitally directed transrectal biopsies of palpable prostatic abnormalities. the authors evaluated 51 patients with palpable prostatic abnormalities detected during digital rectal examination. these findings consisted of a nodule or an area of induration. each palpable abnormality was confined to 1 prostatic lobe and there was no suggestion of extracapsular extension of neoplasm or systemic metastatic disease. all patients underwent 7.0 mhz. sagittal ultrasound guided transrectal biopsy followed by digitally directed transrectal biopsy. biopsies were obtained only from the area of interest. the procedure was performed in the outpatient clinic without use of sedation or anesthesia. digitally directed biopsies were positive for adenocarcinoma in 9 lesions. ultrasound guided biopsies detected adenocarcinoma in 23 lesions, including all those detected by the blind digitally directed technique. this study demonstrates greater diagnostic accuracy using 7.0 mhz. ultrasound guided techniques and its routine use is warranted in the evaluation of palpable prostatic abnormalities.
high cardiac output as a paraneoplastic syndrome. a high cardiac output (17 1 min-1) was recorded in a young man suffering from lymphoplasmatocytotic lymphoma. the evolution of the blood disease was characterized by two relapses, during which clinical signs of heart failure were prominent but resolved with efficient blood chemotherapy. the known aetiologies of high cardiac output were excluded. the complete normalization of the cardiac parameters with blood remission suggests that the high cardiac output represented an unusual paraneoplastic syndrome, the pathogenesis of which still remains unknown, although several hypotheses were tested.
fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on escherichia coli meningitis. pseudomeningitis is the demonstration of microorganisms from the cerebrospinal fluid by stain or culture in a patient with symptoms suggesting meningitis. this is a report of fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on a case of nosocomial escherichia coli meningitis resulting from a neurosurgical procedure. critical care personnel need to be aware of the possibility of pseudomeningitis with or without associated meningitis in the appropriate setting.
diffuse alveolar haemorrhage associated with progressive systemic sclerosis. a 41 year old man with an eight year history of progressive systemic sclerosis developed severe diffuse alveolar haemorrhage and died. the importance of diffuse alveolar haemorrhage as a rare but potentially serious complication of connective tissue disease should not be overlooked.
unnecessary deaths from valvular aortic stenosis. the annual mortality from aortic valvular stenosis was calculated among potential candidates for surgical replacement of the aortic valve. from the swedish central register of causes of death, 70 patients below the age of 80 years who had died from aortic stenosis during a 1-year period in the county of stockholm (population 1.5 million), were identified. a retrospective analysis of their medical records showed that 37 individuals were suitable candidates for surgery. the presence of aortic stenosis had been verified at autopsy in 31 (84%) patients. the remaining six patients (16%) had their aortic stenosis diagnosis established by a thorough non-invasive investigation performed before death. although typical signs and symptoms of aortic stenosis were recorded in all 37 patients, only six (16%) of them had been considered by their physicians to be suitable candidates for surgery prior to death. the deceased patients were compared with a group of 68 patients who had undergone aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis during the same period. there were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to symptoms and clinical findings, except for a higher incidence of syncope in the operated group. it is concluded that, of 105 (68 surgically treated and 37 deceased) eligible patients with aortic stenosis, 37 individuals did not receive surgical care in time. the reason for this was probably insufficient knowledge of the curability of the disease.
the management of postoperative chylous ascites. a case report and literature review. chylous ascites remains rare as a complication of surgical intervention. although therapeutic manoeuvres to control chylous ascites have been developed over the past 20 years, its pathophysiology is poorly understood. conservative approaches involving dietary restriction of long-chain triglycerides and salt, together with multiple paracenteses, are still the therapies of choice. persistent chylous ascites may be treated surgically by ligation of leaking lymphatics or implantation of a peritoneovenous shunt once the lymphatic anatomy has been defined by preoperative investigations. we report a case of chylous ascites developing after laparotomy and duodenotomy for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, which did not respond adequately to medical therapy and was successfully managed by the insertion of a peritoneovenous shunt.
recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in wilms' tumor. a 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a wilms' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. she was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence. the recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable wilms' tumor elements. the child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy. pathologic, immunoperoxidase, and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented.
stage a adenocarcinoma of the prostate: transrectal us and sonographic-pathologic correlation. results of transrectal ultrasound (trus) of the prostate and pathologic examination of specimens obtained at transurethral resection of the prostate (turp) were compared in 29 patients with clinical stage a adenocarcinoma. ten specimens contained no residual tumors larger than 5 mm in diameter; in the remaining 19 glands, 20 discrete cancers were found. at trus, 30 peripheral hypoechoic lesions were demonstrated, of which 11 corresponded to carcinoma at pathologic examination. other hypoechoic peripheral zone lesions included a focal area of dilated acinar glands in 10 cases, post-turp scarring with fingerlike projections of fibrosis in seven, dysplasia in one, and no correlation in one. of nine tumors that were not detected prospectively at trus, eight were predominantly in the anterior zone and one was in the posterior peripheral zone but was isoechoic. overall, the sensitivity of trus in the evaluation of clinical stage a lesions was 55% and the specificity was 37%. clinical stage a carcinomas may be difficult to detect at us, and findings are often nonspecific. any suspicious peripheral zone lesion should undergo biopsy with trus guidance before being diagnosed as malignant.
microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale: a difficult antemortem diagnosis [published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 apr;66(4):439] microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose. the most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea, and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram. another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities. in general, pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli, but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans. the diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology, a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography. herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death. these cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis.
urinary tract infection: economic considerations. urinary tract infection results in significant morbidity and mortality while consuming large amounts of national resources. the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of urinary tract infection produce both costs and benefits, and economic analysis provides a rational framework for looking at these effects. the goals and methods of economic analysis in medicine are summarized, and strategies to address uncomplicated cystitis, nosocomial urinary tract infection, and pyelonephritis are reviewed, with an emphasis on the economic trade-offs faced by decision makers.
effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats. the purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrsp). treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril (45 mg/kg/day), an angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor, or with hydralazine (18 mg/kg/day). cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure (from 195 +/- 8 to 125 +/- 5 and 148 +/- 3 mm hg, respectively [mean +/- sem]; p less than 0.05). to examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles, we measured pressure (servonull), external diameter, and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall (histologically) in pial arterioles of normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky) rats and shrsp that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine. arterioles were maximally dilated with edta. in wky rats, cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure, external diameter, or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall. in shrsp, both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from wky rats (from 1,911 +/- 155 to 1,244 +/- 101 and 1,388 +/- 59 microns 2, respectively, compared with 1,405 +/- 95 microns 2 for untreated wky rats). cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure (from 110 +/- 6 to 62 +/- 2 mm hg with cilazapril versus 79 +/- 5 mm hg for hydralazine compared with 60 +/- 4 mm hg for untreated wky rats). cilazapril, but not hydralazine, attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles (from 91 +/- 4 to 100 +/- 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 +/- 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 +/- 3 microns for untreated wky rats).
coronary bypass surgery: is the operation different today? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years. to document this change, we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 (n = 1586) and 1987 (n = 1513) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass. between 1981 and 1987, patients were found to be older (greater than or equal to 70 years, 8.7% versus 21.8%, p less than 0.0001), more often diabetic (15% versus 24%, p less than 0.0001), have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease (14.5% versus 46.1%, p less than 0.0001), and have more left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 0.60 +/- 14 versus 0.54 +/- 13, p less than 0.0001). to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups, we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987: subgroup i, no prior procedure (n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987); subgroup ii, optimal group (n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987, and defined as no prior procedure, ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years); subgroup iii, patients having reoperations (n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987). internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1% in 1987. major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly: need for intraaortic balloon pumping, 1.4% versus 4.7%, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction 3.5% versus 5.5%, p less than 0.008; stroke, 1.4% versus 2.8%, p less than 0.008; and wound infection, 1.0% versus 3.0%, p less than 0.001. wound infection (all types) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction (0.7% versus 5%, p less than 0.0001). for young patients with good left ventricular function (subgroup ii), there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987. hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2% to 3.1% (p less than 0.0002), respectively. it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition (subgroup ii) in both years, 0.8% versus 1.1%, and highest for reoperative patients, 5.3% versus 4.3%. in 1981, 58% of patients (503/870) were in the optimal group compared with 35% (292/828) in 1987 (p less than 0.0001). the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older, sicker patients who have more complex disease, with a significant reduction in the best candidate group.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
ct and mr imaging in staging non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma: report of the radiologic diagnostic oncology group. the accuracies of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging and computed tomography (ct) in determining tumor classification and assessing mediastinal node metastases were compared in a prospective cooperative study of 170 patients with non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma. the sensitivity of ct in distinguishing t3-t4 tumors from t0-t2 tumors was 63%; specificity was 84%. these values for mr imaging were not significantly different (56% and 80%). with receiver operating characteristic (roc) analysis, no difference existed between the accuracies of ct and mr imaging in diagnosis of bronchial involvement or chest wall invasion, but mr imaging was significantly more accurate than ct (p = .047) in diagnosis of mediastinal invasion. lymph node sampling was performed in 155 patients (642 node stations). cancerous nodes were found in 14% of stations in 21% of patients. there was no significant difference between the accuracies of ct and mr imaging in detecting mediastinal node metastases (n2 or n3); the sensitivities were 52% and 48%, respectively, and specificities were 69% and 64%. roc analysis also showed no difference between ct and mr imaging.
prospective randomized comparison of esophageal variceal sclerotherapy agents: sodium tetradecyl sulfate versus sodium morrhuate. we designed a prospective randomized study to evaluate differences in efficacy and complication rate between the two most commonly used sclerosing agents, sodium tetradecyl sulfate (std) and sodium morrhuate (mor). of 41 patients with acute index variceal bleeding initially evaluated, 21 were randomized to receive 0.75% std and 20 to receive 1.6% mor diluted with 50% dextrose. overall mortality for the std group was 38% and that for the mor group was 25% (ns). control of acute bleeding was achieved in 86% of the std patients and 90% of the mor patients (ns). overall, obliteration was achieved in only 33% of the std group and 25% of the mor group; but in those patients who remained in the study over 3 months, obliteration was achieved in 87 and 83%, respectively (ns). there was a trend toward higher rebleeding in the std group compared with the mor group (81% vs. 51%) (p = 0.078), but there was no significant difference between the std and mor patients with regard to transfusion requirements (8.4 units/patient vs. 8.7 units/patient), ulceration (53% vs. 40%), or stricture formation (9.5% vs. 0.0%). the results of this study suggest that std and mor are clinically equivalent sclerosing solutions, and that bias favoring use of one agent over the other may be unfounded.
life events and low birthweight--analysis by infants preterm and small for gestational age. social stress was assessed in 92 women with low-birthweight babies and 92 controls using the detailed leds measure of life events and severe chronic difficulties. the low-birthweight group was divided into preterm delivery (n = 40), small for gestational age (sga) (n = 40) and mixed groups. multivariate analysis was performed using a binomial-logit model to examine whether social factors were independently and significantly associated with low birthweight once the effect of demographic factors, obstetric factors and smoking/drinking were taken into account. comparison of preterm births with controls indicated that three factors were significantly associated: a previous low-birthweight baby, severe life event/difficulty and bleeding during pregnancy. for sga babies the factors were: previous low-birthweight baby, low social support and smoking. by using a reliable measure of life events and adequate numbers of low-birthweight babies, this study overcame the potential inaccuracies of previous studies and indicates a more specific relation between social stress and low birthweight.
the role of resection in the management of melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland. melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland diagnosed before death was exceedingly rare before the development of computed tomographic (ct) scanning. the records of 28 patients with melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland seen since 1975 were reviewed. eighteen patients were men and 10 were women. twenty-three patients had unilateral disease. four patients were diagnosed only at autopsy, leaving 24 for analysis of treatment and survival. twenty-one patients had received specific active immunotherapy, four had received chemotherapy (dacarbazine, lomustin, bleomycin, and vincristine), and three had received both before the diagnosis of their adrenal disease. adrenal metastases were diagnosed by ct scanning in 14 patients with symptoms, 10 (91%) of whom had pain. ten patients were diagnosed by ct before entry into a chemotherapy protocol. of eight patients who underwent resection of all known disease, five underwent unilateral adrenalectomy, two underwent unilateral adrenalectomy and bowel resection, and one underwent bilateral adrenalectomy. two patients underwent partial resection of large unilateral tumors. fourteen patients with adrenal metastases and disease elsewhere were initiated or continued with chemotherapy or were treated symptomatically. mean survival in the group that underwent resection for cure was 59 months (3 to 112 months), whereas survival in the group with unresectable tumors was 15 months (1.5 to 132 months). four of eight patients who underwent resection for cure lived more than 5 years after detection of adrenal metastasis, whereas in only one of 14 patients with unresectable tumors was the same true. patients with metastatic melanoma localized to one or both adrenal glands may benefit from early detection and surgical intervention.
large loop excision of the transformation zone (lletz) compared to carbon dioxide laser in the treatment of cin: a superior mode of treatment. a series of 199 patients with histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade ii or iii were allocated by hospital number to receive out-patient treatment by carbon dioxide laser vaporization or large loop excision of the transformation zone (lletz). all patients received local anaesthesia. the women in the lletz group experienced less post operative haemorrhage, less discomfort, operative time was greatly reduced, and histological material was available for confirmation of the diagnosis. there was no significant difference in recurrence of cin after treatment between the two groups. at 6 month follow-up, recurrence rates of 8.2% (cin ii) and 7.5% (cin iii) were observed in the laser-group and 5% (cin ii) and 5.3% (cin iii) in the lletz group. further advantages of lletz are reduced capital expenditure and no hazard to the eyesight of the surgeon, but laser treatment is preferable in patients with widespread vaginal involvement.
the changing clinical spectrum of thromboangiitis obliterans (buerger's disease). between 1970 and 1987, 112 patients were diagnosed as having thromboangiitis obliterans (tao). the age was 42 +/- 11 years (mean +/- sd; range, 20-75 years); 23% were women, and 7% were more than 60 years old when they were first diagnosed. ischemic ulcerations were present in 85 (76%) patients: 24 (28%) patients with upper-extremity, 39 (46%) patients with lower-extremity, and 22 (26%) patients with both upper- and lower-extremity lesions. ninety-one (81%) patients had rest pain, 49 (44%) patients had raynaud's phenomenon, and 43 (38%) patients had superficial thrombophlebitis. we were able to follow up 89 of the 112 (79%) patients for 1-460 months (mean follow-up time, 91.6 +/- 84 months). sixty-five (73%) patients had no amputations, while 24 (27%) had one or more of the following amputations: finger, six (15%) patients; toe, 13 (33%) patients; transmetatarsal, four (10%) patients; below knee, 14 (36%) patients; and above knee, two (5%) patients. forty-three (48%) patients stopped smoking for a mean of 80 +/- 105 months (median, 46.5 months; range, 1-420 months), and only two (5%) patients had amputations after they stopped smoking, while 22 (42%) patients had amputations while continuing to smoke (p less than 0.0001). the spectrum of patients with tao is changing in that the male-to-female ratio is decreasing (3:1), more older patients are being diagnosed, and upper-extremity involvement is commonly present. in the 48% of patients who stopped smoking, amputations and continued disease activity were uncommon.
carotid-esophageal fistula following a penetrating neck injury: case report. carotid arterial injuries frequently are associated with injuries to adjacent structure of the neck, particularly the esophagus and trachea. complications from these repairs are common and fistula formation is herein described between the carotid artery and esophageal repair.
intraoperative decision making during thyroid surgery based on the results of preoperative needle biopsy and frozen section. prognostic factors in well-differentiated thyroid cancer are age of the patient and grade, size, distant metastasis, and extracapsular spread of the disease. however, the surgeon is often not sure about the pathologic diagnosis of thyroid nodules. the accuracy of preoperative studies, such as ultrasonography and thyroid scanning, is limited. the most cost-effective test is fine-needle aspiration, the accuracy of which exceeds 80% in most series. however, a large group of nodules exist for which aspiration cytologic studies are considered to be either suspicious or indeterminate. the decision about the extent of thyroidectomy may be difficult in these patients. intraoperative frozen section may help the surgeon to distinguish benign from malignant lesions, but as in fine-needle aspiration, the major problem is the distinction between follicular adenoma and follicular carcinoma. the frozen section diagnosis of follicular adenoma was changed to follicular carcinoma in one third of the cases (13 of 38 cases). the decision about the extent of thyroidectomy in patients with follicular adenomas was based on other prognostic factors, such as age and sex of the patient and the size of the nodule. the accuracy of frozen section diagnosis was 95%. our experience suggests that decisions regarding the extent of thyroidectomy can best be made by preoperative fine-needle aspiration with confirmation by frozen section diagnosis in equivocal cases.
blood pressure reactivity predicts myocardial infarction among treated hypertensive patients. high blood pressure (bp) defines a prognostically heterogeneous group. because bp varies according to time, setting and means of observation, it has been postulated that bp reactivity might better predict cardiovascular disease (cvd) than does unidimensional measurements. to assess bp reactivity, the difference between pretreatment nurse (rn) and physician (md) diastolic bp (dbp)--systematically recorded in that order--or md-rn dbp, was obtained in 1737 previously untreated patients with sustained, rn bp greater than or equal to 160 and/or 95 mmhg. patients stratified by tertiles of md-rn dbp [(i) less than or equal to - 3, (ii) -2 to 3 and (iii) greater than or equal to 4 mmhg] were similar by sex, race, age, body mass index, cholesterol, electrocardiography, prior cvd, smoking and pretreatment or attained in-treatment bps. during 14 years of followup, myocardial infarction (mi) incidence per 1000/year were, tertile i (3.2), ii (3.7), iii (7.6) (relative risk = 2.4, iii vs i + ii, p less than 0.05), whereas stroke incidence and non-cvd mortality were evenly distributed. by cox survival analysis, controlling for other entry characteristics only age, sex and dbp reactivity remained predictive (p less than or equal to 0.03) of mi or total cvd. thus, bp reactivity, probably a centrally-mediated phenomenon, identifies a subgroup of hypertensives with an increased propensity for mi despite successful bp control.
high urinary camp in hypertensives despite careful drug treatment--an epidemiological study from the dalby population. the correlation between serum calcium (s-ca), plasma parathyroid hormone (p-pth) and hypertension was determined in a population-based, cross-sectional study of carefully treated hypertensives (n = 391; diastolic blood pressure 90.2 mmhg; 57 years) compared with normotensive controls (n = 328; diastolic blood pressure 82.1 mmhg; 57 years). levels of urinary cyclic-adenosinemonophosphate (u-camp), but not of plasma camp (p-camp), were higher (p less than 0.001) in hypertensives than in controls. this was the case regardless of the type of drug treatment and the blood pressure level that was reached. u-camp correlated with adrenaline in multivariate analyses. s-ca levels were higher (p less than 0.001) and s-mg levels were lower (p less than 0.001) in hypertensives than in controls. this was not explained by thiazide treatment. thus, despite 'adequate' blood pressure reduction, substantial differences in s-ca, s-mg and u-camp still exist between hypertensives and normotensive controls.
clinical and instrumental evaluation of sensory function before and after percutaneous anterolateral cordotomy at cervical level in man. sensory perception thresholds were assessed by clinical testing and by quantitative instrumental testing before and after operation in 16 subjects for whom unilateral percutaneous cervical cordotomy was performed for the relief of pain due to malignant disease, and compared with clinical assessments of sensory function. we were able to confirm the association between deficit in pin-prick sensation and pain relief in the majority of instances, though the completeness or otherwise of pain relief does not correspond to absence of pin-prick sensation. there is no objective interference with low threshold mechanical sensation as measured instrumentally, although cordotomised subjects do not experience startle, tickle, or cutaneous erotic sensation when subjected to appropriate low intensity tactile sensation. quantitative instrumental testing shows that the greatest deficits produced by cordotomy are in the sensations of skinfold pinch (? = tissue-damage pain) and skin cooling. the latter is transduced in the periphery by a delta fibres; sensations of warmth and hot pain, transduced by primary afferent c fibres, are much less significantly affected. our findings thus fail to resolve the question as to whether chronic clinical pain is mainly an a delta- or a c fibre-mediated phenomenon.
germ line p53 mutations in a familial syndrome of breast cancer, sarcomas, and other neoplasms familial cancer syndromes have helped to define the role of tumor suppressor genes in the development of cancer. the dominantly inherited li-fraumeni syndrome (lfs) is of particular interest because of the diversity of childhood and adult tumors that occur in affected individuals. the rarity and high mortality of lfs precluded formal linkage analysis. the alternative approach was to select the most plausible candidate gene. the tumor suppressor gene, p53, was studied because of previous indications that this gene is inactivated in the sporadic (nonfamilial) forms of most cancers that are associated with lfs. germ line p53 mutations have been detected in all five lfs families analyzed. these mutations do not produce amounts of mutant p53 protein expected to exert a trans-dominant loss of function effect on wild-type p53 protein. the frequency of germ line p53 mutations can now be examined in additional families with lfs, and in other cancer patients and families with clinical features that might be attributed to the mutation.
myocardial imaging with tc-99m teboroxime: technique and initial results. this study examined the results of tc-99m teboroxime imaging in 22 patients aged 59 +/- 9 years and compared the results with those of thallium-201. the exercise and rest teboroxime studies were obtained within 3 hours of each other using a dose of 15 mci/study. because of the very short wash-out half-life of teboroxime, imaging was begun within 1 to 2 minutes after injection. both spect and planar images were obtained; the spect protocol was modified by changing the number of frames, the time per frame, or the filters used for reconstruction of images. the planar images were obtained in the supine or upright position. shorter acquisition time for spect (10 sec/frame) and the use of a butterworth filter with a frequency cutoff of 0.3 cycle/cm and a power of 10 yielded best image quality. there was a close agreement with thallium results in identifying an abnormal or normal perfusion pattern in 89% of vascular territories. the scans were abnormal by both techniques in 12 patients, normal in nine patients, and discordant in only one patient. thus tc-99m teboroxime myocardial imaging is feasible at rest and during exercise using either spect or planar imaging. shorter acquisition time and appropriate filtering for spect imaging and the upright position in planar imaging improve image quality and are convenient for the patient.
immune responses to allogeneic and xenogeneic implants of collagen and collagen derivatives. whereas xenogeneic collagen has provided a safe and effective biomaterial for numerous medical applications, there are few instances in which data permit the correlation of the immunologic profile of well-defined devices with their clinical sequelae. a major exception is the use of injectable bovine dermal collagen for soft-tissue contour correction. the low incidence of hypersensitivity has been studied in the context of clinical efficacy and safety with several devices. the findings indicate that such immunity usually results in the manifestation of local symptoms of dermal inflammation at sites of treatment that resolve as the implant is resorbed by the host. in contrast, more immunogenic hemostatic agents may elicit a more frequent or vigorous immune response that is not clinically visible or relevant in that application. recent experiences with collagen-based devices for the repair and regeneration of bone have also demonstrated that the presence of immunity to their collagenous or non-collagenous components does not necessarily predict adverse clinical sequelae. indeed, numerous specific data indicate that this immunity can exist as an epiphenomenon with no effect on osteogenesis. to get a true composite picture of biocompatibility, significant steps must be taken to characterize biomaterials properly and to ensure that immunologic, clinical, histologic, and other pertinent laboratory data are viewed in relation to one another and not in isolation.
use of activated charcoal to reduce elevated serum phenobarbital concentration in a neonate. the course of a neonate administered activated charcoal orally for elevated phenobarbital concentration is described. the neonate required a serum concentration of phenobarbital eventually exceeding 80 micrograms/ml for seizure control. however, due to the severe cns injury as a result of the asphyxia at birth, a diagnosis of cerebral death by electroencephalogram and apnea test was pursued. this required the phenobarbital concentration to be less than 30 micrograms/ml. serial phenobarbital concentrations during this time indicated a 250 hour half-life, which would require two weeks for the phenobarbital to drop below 30 micrograms/ml. with the administration of six doses of activated charcoal at 0.7 g/kg/dose, the phenobarbital serum concentration decreased to 22 micrograms/ml, giving an estimated phenobarbital half-life of 22 hours. this, and two other subsequent cases, indicates repeated doses of activated charcoal are effective in augmenting the clearance of certain drugs in the neonatal age group.
reoperation for recurrent peptic ulcer disease. the patient with recurrent peptic ulcer evidences failure of an initial operation to control the ulcer diathesis. a trial of aggressive medical therapy is warranted in elective presentations and has a moderate chance of success. failing this, we believe that reoperation should be tailored to the patient's physiologic status and previous operation (table 5). nevertheless, in most cases, we believe that the second operation should be the final operation and should consist of the procedure with the lowest recurrence rates. therefore, we believe that the assurance of an adequate antrectomy and complete vagal section is the preferred procedure for most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer.
hyperglycemia presenting with occipital seizures. seizures are common in hyperglycemia and are often the first manifestation, particularly in nonketotic hyperglycemia (nkh). published reports emphasize partial motor seizures almost exclusively. in a 3-year period, we observed three patients in whom occipital seizures, documented by ictal eeg recording, were the initial symptom of hyperglycemia. one patient was mildly ketotic at first. seizures were visual in two patients and visual and adversive in the third. seizures regressed with correction of abnormal glucose levels and did not recur during follow-up of less than or equal to 1 year despite discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs (aeds) in two. computed tomography (ct) scans did not show correlative abnormalities. although published reports suggest that frontal lobe structures are particularly susceptible to the epileptogenic effects of nkh, our experience indicates that in nkh epileptic foci may originate in other cortical areas, such as occipital.
heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction in conscious dogs at high and low risk of sudden death. heart rate variability has been demonstrated both experimentally and clinically to be of prognostic importance in determining mortality after myocardial infarction. however, no paired studies have been reported to examine heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction. the hypothesis was tested that low values of heart rate variability provided risk assessment both before and after myocardial infarction with use of an established canine model of sudden cardiac death. risk for sudden death was assessed 1 month after myocardial infarction by a protocol in which exercise and myocardial ischemia were combined; dogs that developed ventricular fibrillation were classified at high risk for sudden death (susceptible) and the survivors were considered low risk (resistant). in resistant dogs, myocardial infarction did not affect any measure of heart rate variability: 1) mean rr interval, 2) standard deviation of the mean rr interval, and 3) the coefficient of variance (standard deviation/rr interval). by contrast, after myocardial infarction, susceptible dogs showed significant decrease in all measures of heart rate variability. before myocardial infarction, no differences were seen between susceptible and resistant dogs. however, 30 days after infarction, epidemiologic analysis of the coefficient of variance showed high sensitivity and specificity (88% and 80%, respectively), predicting susceptibility. therefore, results of analysis of 30 min of beat to beat heart period at rest 30 days after myocardial infarction are highly predictive for increased risk of sudden death.
ulcerative proctitis in central sweden 1965-1983. a population-based epidemiological study. ulcerative proctitis has by tradition been regarded as a subgroup of ulcerative colitis. population-based epidemiological studies of ulcerative proctitis are, however, virtually nonexistent. in an epidemiological study of inflammatory bowel disease in the uppsala health care region, 1065 cases of ulcerative proctitis were diagnosed from 1965 through 1983. males predominated, with the male to female ratio 1.4:1. annual incidence rates were higher in urban than in rural areas. the annual incidence rates increased threefold from 2.8 per 10(5) to 6.6 per 10(5) during the period, affecting all age groups over 14 years of age, in both urban and rural areas and in both sexes. differences in temporal trends and certain other epidemiological characteristics between ulcerative proctitis and extensive ulcerative colitis suggest that ulcerative proctitis is a specific disease whose etiology differs from that of extensive ulcerative colitis.
clinical and electrophysiological characteristics of ventricular tachycardia in children with normal hearts. characteristics of 18 patients with clinical ventricular tachycardia (vt) and normal hearts documented by physical examination, echocardiography, and angiocardiography were analyzed. there were 13 males and 5 females, aged 1 to 16 years (mean +/- sd, 9.7 +/- 4.8 years). six patients had hemodynamic instability during vt and the other 12 patients were hemodynamically stable. two patients (11%) presented with sustained vt and 16 (89%) with episodes of nonsustained vt at varying intervals (3 of 16 with repetitive monomorphic vt). among 14 patients on whom exercise tests were performed, seven had exercise-induced vt. during electrophysiologic studies, vt was induced in 16 of 18 (89%) (in 13 patients with morphology identical to clinical vt). vt was induced by programmed stimulation (single, double, and burst stimulation of the right atrium or right ventricular apex during sinus rhythm or during pacind for eight beats) in 5 of 18 (28%) patients; with isoproterenol, vt was aggravated spontaneously in 6 of 15 (40%) patients; and during stimulation vt was induced in 8 of 15 (53%) patients. among patients whose vt was not induced during programmed stimulation, vt was induced with the addition of isoproterenol in 11 of 12 (92%). all 14 patients in follow-up are in stable condition, seven patients with medication and seven without medication. pediatric patients with normal hearts and clinically detected vt usually have vt induced by programmed stimulation, either with or without isoproterenol stimulation.
anemia after traumatic spinal cord injury. the incidence and natural history of anemia in patients with spinal cord injuries (sci) were investigated in a prospective study of 68 patients consecutively admitted to a regional acute sci unit. fifty had sci and 18 had spine injuries (si) without neurologic deficit. thirty-six of 41 males (88%) and six of nine females (67%) with sci were anemic on at least one occasion. in the first two weeks after injury, in females and in males, there was no significant difference in mean hemoglobin level between si and sci patients. at six weeks, no male with si was anemic, and males with sci had significantly lower mean hemoglobin levels than those with si (121.6 g/l vs 145.4 g/l, p less than .001). identified early causes of anemia were blood loss due to bony soft tissue or visceral injury, gastrointestinal bleeding, and surgery. in the postacute phase (more than six weeks after injury), anemia occurred in 25 of 41 male and three of nine female sci patients, and its occurrence was associated with the presence of an identified chronic disease, especially urinary tract infection.
chronic neutropenia during childhood. a 13-year experience in a single institution. to evaluate the clinical course and characteristics of children with chronic neutropenia, we reviewed the charts of all such patients seen at our center during a 13-year period. a total of 50 patients with chronic neutropenia were identified. three patients had documented congenital neutropenia, and two siblings had cyclic neutropenia. the remaining 45 children had chronic neutropenia of unknown origin. all children except two had a remarkably benign course despite markedly reduced granulocyte counts. of six girls in this group who had abscess or cellulitis of the labia majora, it was a presenting manifestation in three. resolution of neutropenia was documented in 23 (62%) of 37 patients for whom follow-up information was available, with a median duration of neutropenia of 19 months. no differences were evident between patients with positive antineutrophil antibody test results and those in whom the test yielded negative results or was not performed. chronic neutropenia in childhood is a relatively uncommon entity, characterized by a benign course and eventual resolution in the majority of patients.
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia, fatigue, rash, fever, edema, alopecia, arthralgias, diminished joint motion, skin tightening, muscle cramping, and distal paresthesias. three had shortness of breath, and one had pulmonary hypertension. laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia, leukocytosis, thrombocytosis, raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and elevated serum levels of aldolase, lactate dehydrogenase, and liver enzymes. of 4 chest radiographs, 3 were abnormal. of 5 skin and muscle biopsies, 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis, subcutis, and fascia. eosinophils were often present, but vasculitis was absent. muscle inflammation was minimal. we conclude that the "eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome" is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis.
effects of site-specific mutations on biologic activities of recombinant human il-6. to examine structure-activity relationships of human il-6, we have determined the effects of specific mutations on the biologic activity of a human ril-6 expressed in bacteria. three types of mutants were examined: 1) a variant that contains serines in place of the four naturally occurring cysteines; 2) a series of cysteine-containing deletion mutants, each having a single internal 20 amino acid deletion; and 3) a cysteine-free variant containing a single 20 amino acid deletion. the mutants of the second type constitute a set of nonoverlapping, adjacent deletions spanning amino acids 4 through 183 of the 184 amino acids in natural human il-6. all of the mutants were expressed, along with the full length, cysteine-containing analogue, in escherichia coli as fusion proteins, joined to beta-galactosidase through a collagen linker. this system allows microgram quantities of the ril-6 variants to be partially purified from small bacterial cultures without chromatographic or refolding steps. each of the ril-6 variants was released from the beta-galactosidase fusion protein with collagenase, and the recovered ril-6 was quantitated by laser densitometry of coomassie-stained, sds polyacrylamide gels. the sp. ac. of each of the ril-6 variants was determined using four assays: induction of igm secretion from an ebv transformed human b cell line, induction of fibrinogen secretion from a human hepatoma cell line, induction of fibrinogen secretion from a rat hepatoma cell line, and induction of proliferation of a murine hybridoma cell line. replacement of cysteines with serines reduced activity relative to cysteine-containing ril-6 to about 20% in the rat hepatoma assay and about 3% in the mouse hybridoma assay, whereas activity in both of the human cell lines was reduced to less than 0.1%. these data suggest that the murine and rat cell lines are less selective than the human cell lines in their requirements for recognition of biologically active il-6. each of the deletions, except that of amino acids 4 through 23, resulted in loss of activity in all four assays. these results suggest that the information necessary for activity is not contained within any one portion of the il-6 molecule, but rather that multiple segments of the protein are required for each of the biologic activities that we tested.
an interdisciplinary nutrition assessment and intervention protocol for children with disabilities. because of the multifactorial nature of the nutrition problems associated with developmental disabilities, a well-organized, interdisciplinary effort is necessary to deal with such problems. a team composed of professional and support staff, the client, and the family needs to be involved in an integrated approach to service. the team members share their knowledge and expertise in developing an individual program plan to meet identified needs. this article describes the development and implementation of a prototype for interdisciplinary nutritional evaluation and intervention in an outpatient setting. in 1987, a regional nutrition and feeding diagnosis and evaluation clinic was established through a contractual agreement between the university of georgia university affiliated program and st. mary's hospital in athens, ga. the purposes of the clinic are twofold: to offer direct services to developmentally disabled infants and children who require outpatient services and to provide a unique community-based interdisciplinary training experience for graduate students in nutrition and other health disciplines. the interdisciplinary treatment protocol is based on current knowledge in the treatment of developmental disabilities.
granulomatous orchitis. review of 15 cases. granulomatous orchitis is a rare lesion of the testis which can clinically simulate malignancy. the clinical, radiological and pathological features of 15 patients are presented and discussed.
fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration for bladder cancer. intravesical administration of bacillus calmette-guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer. complications from bacillus calmette-guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur. five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus calmette-guerin sepsis. one man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 c. two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death. sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid, rifampin and streptomycin. two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment. triple antituberculous antibiotics, including cycloserine, may be lifesaving. sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium. bacillus calmette-guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization.
characterization of descending inhibition and facilitation from the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis and gigantocellularis pars alpha in the rat. descending influences on the spinal nociceptive tail-flick (tf) reflex produced by focal electrical stimulation and glutamate microinjection in the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis (ngc) and gigantocellularis pars alpha (ngc alpha) were examined and characterized in rats lightly anesthetized with pentobarbital. both inhibition and facilitation of the tf reflex were produced by electrical stimulation at identical sites in the ngc/ngc alpha; glutamate microinjection only inhibited the tf reflex. the chronaxie of stimulation for inhibition of the tf reflex was 169 +/- 28 microseconds. inhibition of the tf reflex by stimulation was produced throughout the ngc and ngc alpha; intensities of stimulation for inhibition were least in the ventral ngc and in the ngc alpha. at threshold intensities of stimulation, inhibition of the tf reflex did not outlast the period of stimulation. facilitation of the tf reflex was produced at many of the same sites at which stimulation inhibited the tf reflex, but always at lesser intensities of stimulation (mean, 10 microa vs. 43 microa for inhibition, n = 25). stimulation in the ngc/ngc alpha at threshold intensities for facilitation or inhibition of the tf reflex did not significantly affect blood pressure. strength-duration characterization of electrical stimulation and microinjection of glutamate into identical sites in the ngc and ngc alpha suggest that descending inhibition of the tf reflex results from activation of cell bodies in the ngc and ngc alpha.
homocystinuria presenting as central retinal artery occlusion and longstanding thromboembolic disease. a case of central retinal artery occlusion in a patient with a 10-year history of unexplained thromboembolic disease due to a secondary hypercoagulable state is presented. ophthalmological examination led to the final diagnosis.
beneficial effects of x-irradiation on recovery of lesioned mammalian central nervous tissue. we examined the potential of x-irradiation, at clinical dose levels, to manipulate the cellular constituents and thereby change the consequences of transection injury to adult mammalian central nervous tissue (rat olfactory bulb). irradiation resulted in reduction or elimination of reactive astrocytes at the site of incision provided that it was delivered within a defined time window postinjury. under conditions optimal for the elimination of gliosis (15-18 days postinjury), irradiation of severed olfactory bulbs averted some of the degenerative consequences of lesion. we observed that irradiation was accompanied by prevention of tissue degeneration around the site of lesion, structural healing with maintenance of the typical cell lamination, and rescue of some axotomized mitral cells (principal bulb neurons). thus radiation resulted in partial preservation of normal tissue morphology. it is postulated that intrusive cell populations are generated in response to injury and reactive astrocytes are one such group. our results suggest that selective elimination of these cells by irradiation enabled some of the regenerative processes that are necessary for full recovery to maintain their courses. the cellular targets of these cells, their modes of intervention in recovery, and the potential role of irradiation as a therapeutic modality for injured central nervous system are discussed.
embryonal carcinoma of the testis presenting as a left heart mass. a 31-year-old man with a history of intravenous drug abuse and tooth abscess was admitted for evaluation of possible infective endocarditis. echocardiography showed that he had a left atrial mass. the mass removed from the left atrium had the same histology as the primary embryonal carcinoma discovered in the right testicle during hospitalization. the patient made a smooth recovery after surgical intervention and chemotherapy. this is believed to be the first reported case of metastasis from embryonal carcinoma of the testis to the left side of the heart that was successfully removed at surgery.
understanding dizziness. how to decipher this nonspecific symptom. dizziness is a common but often nonspecific symptom. through careful history taking and physical examination, primary care physicians can usually determine the type of sensation (vertigo or light-headedness) and its source. although most causes of dizziness are benign, disorders of the central nervous system tend to be ominous and require immediate referral to a specialist.
treatment of craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia: how early and how extensive? twenty-eight craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia patients were treated as early as the symptoms occurred. the principles of surgical treatment were based on the zones of involvement: total excision of dysplastic bone of fronto-orbital, zygoma, and upper maxillary origin (zone 1) and bone reconstruction primarily; conservative excision on hair-bearing skull (zone 2), central cranial base (zone 3), and tooth-bearing bones (zone 4); and optic canal decompression on patients with orbital dysplasia and decreasing visual acuity. patients were followed for 1 to 11 years (average 5.3 years). no recurrence or invasion of the fibrous dysplasia into the grafted bone was seen. one patient had orthognathic maxillary osteotomy on the reconstructed maxilla 6 years after initial reconstruction. five of 19 patients with alveolar dysplasia had a recurrence and were reshaped. one patient had mandibular sagittal osteotomies to set back the prognathic, fibrous dysplasic mandible after three attempts at conservative shaving. another patient with mandibular fibrous dysplasia had recurrence with pain and a hemimandibulectomy with successful immediate free vascularized iliac bone graft reconstruction.
genetic determination of cytomegalovirus-induced and age-related cardiopathy in inbred mice. characterization of infiltrating cells. carditis developed 7 days after the administration of murine cytomegalovirus to neonatal, young adult or aged mice of varying sensitivity to lethal infection with this virus. the inflammation persisted for up to 80 days, but infected myocardial cells were rare and were not seen after day 10. the inflammatory cells comprised macrophages (up to 30%) and t cells (up to 80%), with a high ratio of lyt2+ to l3t4+ cells throughout. although the h-2 genotype affects murine cytomegalovirus replication at the level of individual cells, and hence resistance to lethal infection, it did not determine resistance to cardiopathy per se. however balb/c, balb.b, and balb.k mice developed persistent myocarditis regardless of age at infection, and age-related cardiopathy was frequent and severe in infected and uninfected mice. b10 and b10.br mice also developed myocarditis after neonatal infection, but inflammation resolved rapidly after adult infection and age-related cardiopathy was correspondingly mild. c3h mice exhibited minimal carditis after neonatal or adult infection. however neonatal infection appears to accelerate age-related cardiopathy, which is severe in retired breeders of this strain.
mtdna depletion with variable tissue expression: a novel genetic abnormality in mitochondrial diseases. we studied two related infants with a fatal mitochondrial disease, affecting muscle in one and liver in the other. quantitative analysis revealed a severe depletion of mtdna in affected tissues. this genetic abnormality was also observed in muscle of an unrelated infant with myopathy and in muscle and kidney of a fourth child with myopathy and nephropathy. biochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and in situ hybridization showed that the depletion of mtdna in muscle fibers was correlated with a respiratory chain defect and with lack of mitochondrially translated proteins. although the differential tissue involvement in these infants suggests mtdna heteroplasmy, sequence analysis of mtdna replication origins did not reveal any abnormality that could account for the low copy number.
genetic control of the immune response in mice to leishmania mexicana surface protease. congenic mouse strains were tested in the lymphocyte proliferation assay for their response to the purified surface protease of leishmania mexicana (gp63). the data obtained allow us to distinguish three different patterns of response, influenced both by h-2 (class ii) and non-h-2 genes. mice of the c57bl/10 (b10) background carrying h-2 haplotypes b,q, and r were found to be high responders; those carrying h-2 haplotypes d, j, v, and z were low responders; and those with h-2a, h-2f, h-2k, h-2p, and h-2u haplotypes were intermediate responders. studies with h-2 recombinant strains indicated that the high responsiveness on the b10 background was determined by the ab allele and the low responsiveness influenced by the ad allele. other genes besides h-2 appear to have a role in the immune response as shown by the fact that some strains with balb, dba, or c3h background differed in their pattern of responsiveness from b10 background strains carrying the corresponding h-2 haplotypes. by using recombinant protein, the influence of the leishmanial surface lipophosphoglycan that might co-purify with gp63, on the mhc restriction of the response to gp63 was excluded. the immune response to gp63 did not correlate with susceptibility of mouse strains to cutaneous infection with l. mexicana promastigotes.
giardia lamblia infestation reveals underlying whipple's disease in a patient with longstanding constipation. whipple's disease is an uncommon disorder, generally associated with gastrointestinal symptoms; of these, diarrhea is a common feature. we report a case of whipple's disease associated with chronic constipation which was not diagnosed until after giardia lamblia infestation had caused diarrhea. to the best of our knowledge this association has not previously been reported. the clinical, laboratory, endoscopic, and manometric aspects are described and discussed.
reoperation for failed gastric bypass procedures for obesity. reoperation is worthwhile when there is an obvious defect in the gastric reduction operation that has failed to control weight. reoperation occasionally is necessary to correct a complication of gastric bypass. vertical banded gastroplasty is the operation of choice for reoperations, as it provides weight control while eliminating the problems of bypass. conversion of a horizontal to a vertical pouch is safe but requires careful attention to the technique to avoid injury to the other organs in the area and preservation of blood supply to the stomach. the gastrogastrostomy across the old horizontal staple line in the vertical pouch can be constructed in a way that will minimize the risk of obstruction. vertical banded gastroplasty is now the only operation in use at uihc for the treatment of obesity and is used not only as the primary operation but in all reoperations. bypass of the stomach and duodenum is not necessary for weight control and adds some risk of malabsorption and duodenal and stomal ulcer plus a lifetime of inaccessibility of the excluded areas for diagnostic and therapeutic measures.
long-term evaluation of indobufen in peripheral vascular disease. indobufen--an inhibitor of platelets aggregation--has been used in 306 patients with intermittent claudication due to peripheral vascular disease. patients were treated and followed up for one year. one patient of every 3 treated with indobufen was treated with asa, and a control group of patients receiving no treatment was also followed up. the authors studied by means of a treadmill exercise test the pain-free walking distance (pfwd), the global walking distance (gwd), and the recovery time after exercise. the treatment period was completed by 290 patients: 204 claudicants, 51 claudicants with diabetes, and 35 with a short pfwd and gwd (greater than 150 m). indobufen was more effective than asa in improving the pfwd and gwd in all groups. there were also fewer side effects with indobufen, and cardiac morbidity and mortality was also reduced. in conclusion indobufen showed its activity and safety in chronic treatment of patients with peripheral disease, and we suggest that it may be used for long periods without side effects.
hbv-dna sequences in tumor and nontumor tissue in a patient with the fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma. one patient with the fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma was found to be seropositive for hbsag and anti-hbe. dna from tumor and nontumor areas of the liver was examined by molecular hybridization for hepatitis b virus dna sequences. undigested dna from the tumor gave a high-molecular-weight smear, and restriction-enzyme analysis indicated a single instance of integration. nontumor liver tissue was analyzed from three separate areas. hepatitis b virus dna was detected in two of these; restriction-enzyme digestion suggested they contained different sites of viral integration. as with the typical hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma, analysis of hepatitis b virus dna from nontumorous liver yielded a different pattern of high-molecular-weight bands, indicating that the virus genome had integrated at different chromosomal locations than that seen in the tumor. the finding of integrated hepatitis b virus dna, especially in tumorous but also in nontumorous liver, would be consistent with an oncogenic role for hepatitis b virus in certain instances of fibrolamellar tumors and in the more typical hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma.
the survivors of childhood solid tumors. with the improvement in cancer therapy in recent years, the number of cancer survivors is rapidly increasing. potential late medical and psychosocial sequelae of cancer therapy are reviewed. a practical guide for the primary health care giver is provided.
magnetic resonance imaging of congenital heart disease in the pediatric patient. current state-of-the-art mr imaging offers a high resolution evaluation of cardiac anatomy in the child with congenital heart disease. although echocardiography remains the standard initial evaluation modality, mr imaging plays a key role in supplementing this information in the pediatric thorax. although applications for this modality continue to be defined, some indications have become clear. the future of mr imaging promises better spatial resolution, faster image acquisition times, and in vivo spectroscopic capabilities.
cluster of fulminant hepatitis b in crack users. fulminant hepatitis occurs in only 1% of acute hepatitis b patients, requiring hospitalization, but coinfection with delta virus increases the incidence. hepatitis b and d infection are commonly associated with intravenous drug abuse, but there have been no previous reports of an association with nonparenteral cocaine. crack use, via sexual promiscuity, is associated with an increased risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection, but has never been associated with viral hepatitis. we report four fatal cases of fulminant hepatitis b including, one with delta virus coinfection and one with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, in young, sexually active, heterosexual crack users. these patients denied a history of intravenous drug abuse. our patients probably contracted hepatitis b infection via heterosexual contact. chronic cocaine exposure may or may not have contributed to the fulminant outcome. crack users may be at increased risk of developing hepatitis b and d infection. epidemiological studies are needed to evaluate their risk of viral hepatitis and the effect of cocaine on its outcome.
cranial base hemorrhage. a technique for controlling the uncontrollable. in the management of trauma, control of life-threatening hemorrhage must be accomplished expeditiously if morbidity is to be decreased and mortality prevented. hemorrhage from the inaccessible cranial base, especially when transected vessel stumps are not available for direct control, can be the most demanding, life-threatening, surgical emergency. we present our experience in utilizing an autologous bone grafting technique to successfully control severe hemorrhage from the base of the skull. in our review of the literature to date, we have been unable to ascertain whether this modality has been previously used.
critical analysis of neoadjuvant therapy for stage iiia non-small cell lung cancer [corrected] [published erratum appears in am rev respir dis 1991 jun;143(6):1473] lung cancer is the major cause of cancer mortality. locally advanced (stage iii) disease constitutes 30 to 40% of the entire group of non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). surgical resection offers the best opportunity for cure, but resection of disease is possible in only a minority of patients with stage iiia disease. even among patients who have "successful" surgery systemic relapse is common, and the 5-yr survival after complete resection is only 30%. preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy is under investigation in an attempt to improve the bleak outcome of patients with stage iiia nsclc. preliminary trials have shown that this approach is feasible: neoadjuvant treatment can be administered with moderate toxicity and in most cases without compromising the possibility for surgical resection. in some instances, neoadjuvant treatment has produced pathologic complete responses, and in others it has decreased tumor bulk so that inoperable patients became surgical candidates. whether this latter phenomenon has an impact on survival is unknown. therefore, the role of neoadjuvant treatment for locally advanced lung cancer will not be known until properly designed randomized trials are conducted.
results of coronary surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients with prior coronary surgery the results of coronary artery bypass surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients who have undergone prior coronary surgery are unknown. coronary angioplasty may be performed to relieve angina after surgery either to the native coronary vessels or to grafts. failure of attempted coronary angioplasty may mandate repeat coronary surgery, often in the setting of acute ischemia. from 1980 to 1989, 1,263 patients with prior coronary bypass surgery underwent angioplasty; of these patients, 46 (3.6%) underwent reoperation for failed angioplasty during the same hospital stay. of the 46 patients who underwent reoperation, 33 had and 13 did not have acute ischemia. in the group with ischemia, 3 patients (9.1%) died and 14 (42.4%) died or had a q wave myocardial infarction in the hospital compared with no deaths (p = ns) and no deaths or q wave myocardial infarction (p = 0.005) in the group without ischemia. at 3 years, the actuarial survival rate was 88 +/- 6% in the group with ischemia, whereas there were no deaths in the group without ischemia (p = ns), and freedom from death or myocardial infarction was 51 +/- 10% in the group with ischemia, versus no events in the group without ischemia (p = 0.006). in most patients with prior coronary bypass surgery, coronary angioplasty was performed without the need for repeat coronary bypass surgery. should coronary angioplasty fail, reoperation in patients without acute ischemia can be performed with overall patient survival comparable to that of elective reoperative coronary bypass without coronary angioplasty.
activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke. the hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood, and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism. we analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls. the levels of antithrombin iii, protein c, and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.001, 0.02, and 0.05, respectively). in contrast, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.01 and 0.001, respectively). at the time of admission, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization (one with prodromal embolism, three with intracardiac thrombi, and four with recurrent embolization) were 2.8 and 3.5 times, respectively, higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation. the lowest concentration of crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission. our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage.
cortical tremor: a variant of cortical reflex myoclonus. two patients with action tremor that was thought to originate in the cerebral cortex showed fine shivering-like finger twitching provoked mainly by action and posture. surface emg showed relatively rhythmic discharge at a rate of about 9 hz, which resembled essential tremor. however, electrophysiologic studies revealed giant somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) with enhanced long-loop reflex and premovement cortical spike by the jerk-locked averaging method. treatment with beta-blocker showed no effect, but anticonvulsants such as clonazepam, valproate, and primidone were effective to suppress the tremor and the amplitude of seps. we call this involuntary movement "cortical tremor," which is in fact a variant of cortical reflex myoclonus.
how stressful is retirement? findings from the normative aging study. the stressfulness of retirement both as a transitional event experienced during the past year and as a life stage was investigated. transitional stress was assessed using a life events approach, and stage stress using a "hassles" approach. respondents were 1,516 male participants in the normative aging study, 45% of whom were retired. among those retiring in the past year, respondents' own and spouse's retirement were rated the least stressful from a list of 31 possible events. only 30% found retirement stressful. retirement hassles were also less frequently reported and were rated less stressful than the work hassles of men still in the labor force. the only consistent predictors of both transitional and stage retirement stress were poor health and family finances; personality did not predict retirement stress.
the efficacy of palliative and definitive percutaneous versus surgical drainage of pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts: a prospective study of 85 patients. we compared the efficacy of percutaneous to surgical drainage in a prospective study in 85 patients with pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts. percutaneous drainage of pancreatic abscesses in 18 patients cured three and palliated 12 who were eventually cured by elective surgical ablation; three patients died. this compares well to our 15 surgical patients, of whom four were cured by surgery alone and six were palliated. all were subsequently cured by additional computerized tomography-guided or ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage and medical management or surgery. five of the 15 died. percutaneous drainage cured 11 of 14 infected pseudocysts and palliated two, which were subsequently cured by surgery; one was palliated but the patient was lost to follow-up. surgical drainage cured six of 12 infected pseudocysts and palliated the other six, of which four were cured by further surgery and the other two were cured by secondary percutaneous drainage. nine of 12 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by percutaneous aspiration, and two were palliated and later cured. in one patient, disease progressed, and he was ultimately lost to follow-up. thirteen of 14 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by surgical drainage. the other patient died of pulmonary embolus. in patients treated by percutaneous techniques, there were four major complications. our study established distinct advantages of percutaneous drainage under computerized tomographic and ultrasonic guidance: (1) the procedures can be carried out under ultrasonic guidance in an intensive care unit on critically ill patients, (2) the technique proved highly effective for initial palliation, with defervescence and stabilization occurring in most critically ill patients within 48 hours, (3) findings from fine needle aspiration provided valuable information as to microorganisms and antibiotic sensitivities and differed in 29 of 85 patients from those of concomitant blood cultures, and (4) definitive eradication of the process (surgical ablation of residual necrotic material) can be elected after the patient's clinical condition stabilizes.
ca72-4: a new tumour marker for gastric cancer. to date, tumour markers for gastric cancer have proved unreliable. in this study the value of a new serum marker, ca72-4, was compared with the serum activities of carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) and ca19-9 in a consecutive series of patients with gastric cancer. the results show that the ca72-4 assay is significantly better at separating stage i and ii disease from normal controls (p less than 0.01) than cea (n.s.) or ca19-9 (n.s.). ca72-4 also gave better differentiation between patients with positive and negative nodes (p less than 0.01) and between those who were serosa positive and negative (p less than 0.01). cea differentiated between patients with positive and negative nodes (p less than 0.05) but ca19-9 could not. ca19-9 and cea could not discriminate between patients who were serosa positive and negative. in this study, at a specificity of 95 per cent, the sensitivities of cea, ca19-9 and ca72-4 were 0.25, 0.41 and 0.94 respectively. these preliminary findings indicate that ca72-4 is a reliable tumour marker of disease stage and activity in gastric cancer. further longitudinal studies are required for full evaluation of its clinical utility.
relation of cardiac output at rest and during exercise to age in essential hypertension. it has been suggested that the decline of cardiac output with age is due to increased prevalence of disease, particularly occult coronary artery disease. therefore, the relation of cardiac output (direct oxygen fick method) to age was analyzed in 110 sixteen- to 64-year-old men with world health organization stage i or ii essential hypertension at the time of the hemodynamic study, who were alive and free of cardiovascular complications 7 years later. at supine and seated rest, during upright bicycle exercise at 50 w and and at peak work load, cardiac output was inversely (p less than 0.01) related to age. these relations were independent of weight and mean intraarterial pressure. stroke volume decreased with advancing age at supine rest, but not at rest and during exercise in the seated position. heart rate was not affected by age in the supine position, but was slower in older patients during upright rest and at peak exercise. in conclusion, in patients with essential hypertension who remained free of cardiovascular complications for 7 years, cardiac output was independently and inversely related to age at various levels of activity. these findings suggest that occult cardiovascular disease does not explain the decline in cardiac output with age in patients with essential hypertension.
effects of the differentiating agent hexamethylene bisacetamide on normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors. hexamethylene bisacetamide (hmba; nsc 95580) is a potent polar-planar differentiating agent of leukemia and solid tumor cell lines in vitro at clinically achievable concentrations. hmba is currently being studied in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. previous phase i trials have demonstrated that hmba produces hematologic toxicity in morphologically normal bone marrows of patients with solid tumors. because of concern that hmba may produce more severe myelotoxicity in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome since these patients have limited hematopoietic reserves, we studied the effects of hmba on myelodysplastic and normal hematopoietic progenitors in vitro. hmba concentrations that are optimal for differentiation in vitro (2 to 5 mmol/l) and hmba concentrations that are being achieved in clinical trials (1 to 2 mmol/l) inhibited the growth of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units and erythroid burst-forming units from all 15 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and all 4 normal subjects, hmba did not induce proliferation of myelodysplastic or normal progenitors at any concentration; rather, it produced nearly identical inhibition of normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors. hmba also produced quantitatively similar inhibition of clonogenic leukemic growth of two myeloid leukemia cell lines. for a differentiating agent to be effective, it will likely have to either produce both differentiation and proliferation of abnormal hematopoietic progenitors or show selective inhibitory effects on abnormal as compared with normal progenitors. although the mechanisms responsible for the antiproliferative effects of hmba cannot be determined from this study, similar inhibitory effects of hmba on normal and abnormal hematopoietic progenitors suggest that hmba may be of limited utility in producing and sustaining elevations of peripheral blood cell counts in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome.
therapy for acute infectious diarrhea in children. this article reviews current recommendations of therapy with antidiarrheal compounds and antimicrobial agents for acute infectious diarrhea in children. in most infants and children with acute infectious diarrhea, treatment with antidiarrheal compounds is not indicated. many of these compounds interfere with identification of enteropathogens in stool specimens, and the antimotility class has an overdose potential. antimicrobial therapy is given to reduce symptoms and to prevent the spread of infection by decreasing fecal shedding of organisms. although effective therapy is not available for patients with enteric viruses, cryptosporidium, and microsporidium, therapy is useful for children with amebiasis, antimicrobial-associated colitis, cholera, giardiasis, various forms of escherichia coli diarrhea and salmonella disease, isosporiasis, shigellosis, and strongyloidiasis. for several other conditions, antimicrobial therapy is of questionable benefit (infection with campylobacter jejuni or yersinia enterocolitica, intestinal salmonellosis and enterohemorrhagic e. coli infection). compounds such as the fluoroquinolones, which are effective in the treatment of acute infectious diarrhea in adults, are not approved for use in children because of potential side effects. many bacterial, viral, and parasitic organisms cause acute infectious diarrhea; appropriate antimicrobial therapy requires the accurate, rapid identification of the offending enteropathogen. in children with an underlying illness such as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, manifestations may be prolonged, severe, and recurrent despite appropriate therapy.
essential hypertension, metabolic disorders, and insulin resistance. essential hypertension is frequently associated with several metabolic abnormalities, of which obesity, glucose intolerance, and dyslipidemia are the most common. this report discusses the epidemiologic evidence for the coexistence of these risk factors and questions why hyperinsulinemia and essential hypertension cosegregate. the euglycemic insulin clamp and the insulin suppression test are documented with respect to the physiologic functions of insulin, and the mechanisms of insulin resistance in essential hypertension are discussed. evidence to suggest that insulin resistance is a marker for an "atherogenic syndrome" is reviewed. it is concluded that all the hemodynamic and metabolic disorders of essential hypertension and insulin resistance are closely related. the clinical approach to the patient with any of the abnormalities in question should take into consideration the whole cluster, with therapy aimed at ameliorating the entire hemodynamic-metabolic profile.
survival with regional and distant metastases from cutaneous malignant melanoma. the clinical course of 312 consecutive patients after initial presentation with metastatic melanoma, 165 of whom presented with regional metastases at cutaneous or subcutaneous, or both, nodal sites and 147 with metastases at distant sites, was reviewed. the five year survival rate for regional metastases was 43.4 per cent compared with a five year survival rate for distant metastases of 4.9 per cent (p less than 0.0001). favorable prognostic variables for survival from first regional metastases included primary melanoma sites on the extremities compared with the head, neck and trunk (p = 0.043) and a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to regional metastases (p = 0.0058). favorable prognostic variables for survival from the first distant metastasis included a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to distant metastases (p = 0.0092), the type of resection of metastatic disease (p = 0.00027) and the addition of systemic immunotherapy (p = 0.0011). forty-nine patients with totally resectable distant metastases had a five year survival rate from the treatment of the initial metastasis of 13.1 per cent, whereas 33 patients having palliative resections had a five year survival rate of 7.5 per cent. all 165 patients who did not have resection for distant metastases died within five years. the results of our experience support therapeutic efforts to ablate both regional and distant metastases of malignant melanoma when feasible.
atypical presentations of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients receiving inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis. inhaled pentamidine is used commonly to prevent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (pcp) in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection. case reports indicate that pcp can recur in patients who receive inhaled pentamidine and that clinical features may be atypical. to determine the magnitude of this problem, we reviewed retrospectively the medical records of patients with proven pcp during a 30-month period at two hospitals. four (31 percent) of 13 patients with previous pcp who received inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis had recurrent p carinii infection, including one patient with widely metastatic extrapulmonary disease. chest roentgenographic findings included cavities, pneumothoraces, bilateral and upper lobe interstitial infiltrates, and pleural effusion. false-negative bronchoalveolar lavage and induced sputum examinations were frequent. we conclude that recurrent pcp in patients maintained on a regimen of inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis occurs frequently, causes chest roentgenographic abnormalities other than interstitial infiltrates, and may be difficult to diagnose. clinicians who choose to use this effective and convenient mode of prophylaxis should be aware of the problems attendant to its use.
long-term follow-up in toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodules treated with radioactive iodine the long-term effects of radioiodine treatment on thyroid function in patients with a toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodule were evaluated. fifty-two patients received a therapeutic dose of 20 mci of iodine-131 (131i). duration of follow-up was 10 +/- 4 yr. follow-up data included a biochemical evaluation of thyroid function. the failure rate (recurrent hyperthyroidism) was 2%. the incidence of hypothyroidism was 6% and was not related to the dose per gram of nodular tissue. oral administration of 20 mci of radioiodine is a simple and highly effective method for the treatment of patients with a toxic autonomous thyroid nodule. the risk of development of hypothyroidism is low if extranodular uptake of 131i is prevented. this can be achieved by not treating euthyroid patients, by no longer using injections of exogenous thyroid stimulating hormone in the diagnostic work-up of the patients and by always performing radioiodine imaging shortly before treatment.
gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether in 120 patients--efficacy and safety. of 612 patients with cholesterol gallbladder stones, 120 were eligible for percutaneous transhepatic litholysis with methyl tert-butyl ether (mtbe). puncture of the gallbladder was successful in 117/120 (97.5%). in 113/117 (96.6%) the stones dissolved. with solitary stones, treatment lasted for an average of 4 hr, with multiple stones 10 hr. mean hospitalization was 3.6 days. in 3/117 (2.6%) patients a bile leakage developed; 33% reported mild complaints. after the end of treatment 34% had some residue in the gallbladder; two of these patients developed recurrent stones. mtbe is exhaled, is distributed in fatty tissue, and is excreted renally together with its metabolite tert-butanol. methanol was found only in traces. gallbladder histology of six patients showed chronic cholecystitis. since these findings were independent of treatment time and the interval between treatment end and operation, they are most consistent with stone-related changes rather than caused by mtbe.
amplification by the polymerase chain reaction of hypervariable regions of the human genome for evaluation of chimerism after bone marrow transplantation. we combined the polymerase chain reaction (pcr) with oligonucleotide hybridization as a novel and sensitive technique to evaluate posttransplant chimerism. specific oligonucleotides for hybridization were synthesized homologous to tandemly repetitive core sequences of regions with a variable number of tandem repeats (vntrs). polymorphisms at such loci result from allelic differences in the number of repeats. primers flanking the repeat region of each of the corresponding vntrs were used for amplification. recipient and donor pretransplant dna and recipient posttransplant dna were amplified. the resultant fragments were analyzed after gel electrophoresis either by hybridization in-gel or after southern transfer. to confirm our findings, we also performed standard assays of restriction fragment length polymorphisms (rflps). evaluation of 13 selected cases indicated mixed chimerism (4), complete chimerism (5), recurrence of leukemia (2), and endogenous repopulation of hematopoiesis (2) after marrow transplantation. sensitivity of the method was determined by mixing various proportions of recipient and donor dna; the limit of detection of the minor component in a mixture was 0.1%. pcr data correlated with rflp data in all cases except two in which pcr proved more sensitive than rflp. pcr amplification of vntrs combined with oligonucleotide hybridization is a novel technique for documenting posttransplant chimerism and has advantages over rflp analysis: high sensitivity, use of small amounts of dna (250 ng), ease of preparation of dna, elimination of need for restriction enzymes, and the ability to complete studies in 2 days.
combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for spinal canal surgery in children and adolescents. spinal deformities, especially kyphosis and instability, after laminectomy for tumors and other diseases, are major clinical problems. since 1981, combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for the prevention of postlaminectomy spinal deformities was performed on eight male and two female patients aged two to 26 years (average, 13.9 years). the follow-up period was from six months to seven years and three months (average, three years and five months). two patients died six and ten months postoperatively because of brain metastases (astrocytoma) and lung metastases (neuroblastoma), respectively. good alignment with no instability of the cervical or thoracic spine was obtained for all patients, including the two who died. laminoplasty combined with posterolateral fusion was found to be very effective in preventing the development of spinal deformities after spinal canal surgery for spinal cord tumors or other diseases in children and adolescents.
biliary sludge: a critical update. biliary sludge has been for many years a poorly defined entity, usually with low amplitude, nonshadowing echoes within the most dependent part of the gallbladder, which shift under the influence of postural changes. from a sonographic point of view, the detection of sludge implies the coexistence of small-sized, solid components and of a gel-like embedding material. the chemical nature of biliary sludge has recently been recognized to be predominantly composed of a coaggregate of cholesterol monohydrate crystals and liquid crystalline droplets, and in some cases, such as obstructive jaundice or symptomatic liver diseases, by bilirubin granules, all embedded in a gel matrix of mucous glycoproteins. from a pathogenic point of view, biliary sludge is often associated with biliary stasis, or with conditions characterized by impaired gallbladder contraction, such as prolonged total parenteral nutrition, fasting, and pregnancy. other causes include mucus hypersecretion, which may favor cholesterol nucleation and crystal growth, and bile infection. sludge may be an intermediate step in the formation of different types of stones. from an epidemiological point of view, sludge is quite rare in the asymptomatic, free-living population, but may be common in selected series of symptomatic patients. from a clinical point of view, sludge often has a fluctuating course, including frequent disappearances and reappearances, suggesting that the early stages of gallstone formation are reversible.
the management of chronic osteomyelitis. chronic osteomyelitis of childhood is heterogeneous but it can be broadly classified into nonspecific or specific groups. children with chronic osteomyelitis because of mycobacteria or mycoses are included within the specific group. the nonspecific group is the larger. it includes chronic osteomyelitis as a sequel to late acute osteomyelitis as well as chronic unifocal and chronic multifocal osteomyelitis. whereas staphylococcus aureus and other pyogenic organisms are commonly cultured from chronic lesions following late acute osteomyelitis, they are less frequently cultured from those with chronic unifocal osteomyelitis and rarely cultured from those with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis. the methods of treatment and the results also differ between these subgroups of nonspecific osteomyelitis. lesions following late acute osteomyelitis are usually cured following surgery and antibiotics. chronic unifocal osteomyelitis is usually cured with antibiotics only or with surgery and antibiotics. in contrast, surgery and antibiotics are largely ineffective in children with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis, but the disease appears to be self-limiting.
molecular genetic basis of maple syrup urine disease in a family with two defective alleles for branched chain acyltransferase and localization of the gene to human chromosome 1. maple syrup urine disease in humans results from inherited defects in branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase, a mitochondrial multienzyme complex. a variety of genetic changes may produce this phenotype by affecting the function of any of the three complex-specific subunits. the varied clinical expression observed in patients may be partially explained by the defects in the involved subunit. here we report localization of the gene for the branched chain acyltransferase component of the complex to human chromosome 1 and describe a proband who is a compound heterozygote at this locus. one allele, inherited from the father, produces transcripts with 124 nucleotides deleted from the coding region. the deletion is not found in the branched chain acyltransferase gene, implying that the deleted transcripts arise by an error in transcript processing. cells from the patient's mother contain 50% of the normal amount of mrna for the subunit, and the proband has inherited this nonexpressing allele from her. as a result, the proband produces no acyltransferase protein and therefore has greatly impaired complex activity. a phenotypically normal sibling is shown to be genetically similar to the mother having inherited the mother's nonexpressing allele and the father's normal allele.
sixty consecutive breast reconstructions with the inflatable expander: a critical appraisal. breast reconstruction using inflatable expanders has become an established and preferred technique. although our knowledge of the biomechanical changes occurring in expanded skin has increased greatly, little information is available regarding average aesthetic results achieved with this technique. in order to eliminate the bias of best case selection reports, this study of 60 consecutive patients undergoing skin-expansion breast reconstruction was undertaken. results of the study demonstrated a significant frequency and diversity of complications. in particular, immediate breast reconstruction with skin expanders was identified as a high-risk procedure because of its association with skin necrosis and delayed wound healing. although two procedures--insertion and replacement--had been anticipated, patients from both the boston and new york groups required approximately three operations to complete the expansion process. average aesthetic results, often characterized by problems of symmetry, ptosis, and contour, need to be recognized and improved.
a deletion in the gene for glycoprotein iib associated with glanzmann's thrombasthenia. the platelet fibrinogen receptor is composed of a complex of glycoproteins (gp) iib and iiia on the surface of platelets. deficient function of this receptor prevents normal platelet aggregation, resulting in glanzmann's thrombasthenia (gt). in this paper, we describe a black thrombasthenic patient who is either homozygous or hemizygous for a deletion within the gpiib gene. initial western blot analysis of platelet proteins from this patient did not detect any gpiib, but did detect small amounts of gpiiia of normal mobility. quantitation of vitronectin receptor (vnr) demonstrated that this thrombasthenic patient had approximately 1.5-2 times the number of these receptors per platelet compared with controls, a finding that has previously been noted in other thrombasthenic patients with defects in gpiib. genomic southern blot studies demonstrated a deletion in the gpiib gene of approximately 4.5 kilobasepairs (kb). analysis of the isolated gpiib gene demonstrated that the deletion begins between two alu repeats within intron 1 and ends in intron 9. polymerase chain reaction (pcr) studies using platelet rna and oligonucleotides directed to both the 5' and 3' ends of the gpiib cdna sequence easily detected gpiib transcript, suggesting that the genomic deletion of exons 2-9 does not significantly decrease the level of the gpiib mrna. sequence analysis of pcr-generated gpiib cdna showed that a cryptic ag splice acceptor sequence was being utilized, resulting in a transcript that contained a portion of introns 1 and 9, as well as having a deletion of exons 2-9. unlike the gpiib gene, the gpiiia gene appears to be intact by southern blot analysis. pcr studies using platelet rna and oligonucleotides directed to the gpiiia cdna sequence demonstrated the presence of gpiiia mrna. in summary, the thrombasthenic state in this patient appears to be due to a gpiib gene deletion resulting in an abnormal transcript and no detectable platelet gpiib. platelet gpiiia levels were secondarily low presumably due to the known instability of gpiiia in the absence of gpiib.
phenytoin toxicity due to interaction with clobazam. the benzodiazepine antiepileptic drug clobazam can be added to existing aed treatment, usually without clinical toxicity. we report 3 patients in whom the addition of clobazam led within several weeks to clinically obvious phenytoin (pht) intoxication in patients who had been taking maximum tolerable pht doses. symptoms and high pht levels resolved with lowering the pht dose. clobazam and norclobazam levels were not elevated. this interaction is probably related to interference with hepatic degradation of pht. clinicians should be aware of possible pht intoxication in patients starting clobazam.
the effect of ambulation on recovery from postoperative ileus. to determine whether ambulation hastens recovery from ileus following laparotomy, 34 patients were studied, 10 of whom followed an ambulatory regimen beginning on postoperative day 1 (group a). the other 24 patients (group c) did not become ambulatory until postoperative day 4. all patients underwent placement of seromuscular bipolar recording electrodes on the roux limb, if present, stomach, jejunum, and colon at laparotomy. group a was recorded before and after ambulation so comparisons could be made to determine if ambulation had an acute effect on myoelectric activity. group a preambulation and group c recordings were compared to judge whether there was an over-all effect of ambulation on myoelectric recovery. no effect on slow wave frequency or percentage of slow waves with associated spike potentials was noted acutely or overall in the stomach, colon, or jejunum in continuity with the duodenal pacemaker. transient increases in phase ii spike activity in patients having a roux limb and their jejunum distal to the enteroenterostomy were noted on postoperative days 1 to 2, but these differences resolved by postoperative days 3 or 4. the data suggest that ambulation as a means to help resolve postoperative ileus and its accompanying cramps and bloating may be more perceived than real.
chemotherapy of brain metastases from lung carcinoma: a controlled randomized study. a controlled randomized study was carried out to evaluate the effects of chemotherapy in patients with brain metastases from lung carcinoma. one hundred patients were randomly divided into three groups at the time of diagnosis or after surgery for metastases. group a received radiotherapy alone; group b received radiotherapy and chloroethylnitrosoureas (methyl-ccnu, 100-120 mg/m2, or acnu 80-100 mg/m2, every 6-8 weeks), and group c received radiotherapy and a combination of chloroethylnitrosoureas and tegafur (300 mg/m2, daily). of the 100 patients, 88 could be evaluated. the reduction rates of the tumors of the patients in whom tumor was not surgically removed or not totally removed were compared. complete resolution of the tumor was noted in 29, 69, and 63% of the patients in groups a, b, and c, respectively. tumor regression of greater than or equal to 50% was seen in 36, 69, and 74% of the patients in groups a, b, and c, respectively. the difference in the response rates of groups a and c was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). median survival after the start of treatment for brain metastasis was 27, 30.5, and 29 weeks in groups a, b and c, respectively. there was 1 long-term survivor (more than 5 years) in group a, 3 in group b, and 1 in group c. the main cause of death was deterioration attributable to the primary lesion or systemic metastasis, and no statistical difference was noted in survival time among the groups.
endoscopic transpapillary therapy for disrupted pancreatic duct and peripancreatic fluid collections. eighteen patients with active pancreatic ductal disruptions, including 14 with definable fluid collections, were treated with transpapillary pancreatic duct drains or stents. twelve of these patients had undergone a previous percutaneous or surgical pancreatic drainage procedure or both, and 8 had long-term drainage tubes in chronic fistulous tracts. transpapillary catheters could be placed across the ductal disruption or directly into the fluid collection in each case, and 16 of 18 patients had resolution of the disrupted pancreatic duct. twelve of 14 fluid collections resolved. complications were limited to mild exacerbation of pancreatitis symptoms in 2 patients and 2 patients who developed subsequent stent occlusion leading to recurrent pancreatitis (1 patient) or recurrent duct blowout with pseudocyst (1 patient). nine patients had variably significant ductal changes attributable to pancreatic duct stents. at a median follow-up of 16 months, 7 patients ultimately required surgery for ongoing pancreatic pain or residual/recurrent fluid collection. the transpapillary treatment of ongoing pancreatic ductal disruption with or without fluid collection has the potential to obviate surgery in some patients, change an urgent surgical procedure into an elective one, or even assist the surgeon in the performance of intraoperative pancreatography. further study of this technique appears warranted and must be placed into the perspective of current therapies.
use of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms to predict future vulnerability to side effects. objective: susceptibility to neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal syndromes varies widely, even within age and sex subgroups. individual vulnerability to extrapyramidal syndromes has been assumed to explain this, but the utility of past history for predicting future occurrence of extrapyramidal syndromes has not been studied extensively. this investigation was undertaken to determine whether patients' previous histories of extrapyramidal syndromes predict future episodes of extrapyramidal syndromes and to compare the importance of this predictive factor with patient age, sex, neuroleptic dose, and anticholinergic dose as predictors of extrapyramidal syndromes. methods: the charts of 62 schizophrenic patients with multiple neuroleptic treatment episodes were reviewed. extrapyramidal syndromes, neuroleptic drug doses, and anticholinergic drug doses during the first 21 days of each treatment episode were recorded. results: previous extrapyramidal syndromes correctly predicted extrapyramidal syndromes in subsequent treatments for 84% of the patients. variations in neuroleptic potency, neuroleptic dose, and anticholinergic dose partially explained incorrect predictions. conclusions: these results support the hypothesis that patients with a history of extrapyramidal syndromes are at greater risk for future extrapyramidal syndromes. if confirmed, these results strongly support individual susceptibility as a major predictor of extrapyramidal syndromes and indicate that prophylaxis of extrapyramidal syndromes should be considered for patients who have previously suffered extrapyramidal syndromes from similarly prescribed neuroleptic therapy.
arteriographically determined occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous bed in impotent patients following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma. to determine the presence, location and pattern of arterial occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed in impotent men following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma, we reviewed the selective internal pudendal arteriograms of 20 patients with a history of blunt perineal and 7 with blunt pelvic trauma who had immediate development of impotence. arteriographic studies of 104 other impotent patients also were reviewed and compared. patients with persistent impotence immediately after blunt pelvic and perineal trauma had significantly different patterns of arteriographically demonstrated occlusive disease within the distal hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed consistent with the site of the traumatic injury. those who sustained blunt pelvic trauma and complained of immediate impotence revealed arterial occlusive lesions mainly in the internal pudendal, common penile, cavernous and dorsal arteries. the incidence of arterial lesions in the distal internal pudendal or common penile artery was significantly higher (p less than 0.01) in patients with blunt pelvic trauma (92%) than in those with blunt perineal trauma (35%). patients who sustained blunt perineal trauma and complained of immediate impotence demonstrated a more focal pattern of pathological arterial occlusion primarily in the cavernous and dorsal arteries. the incidence of a solitary arterial lesion in the cavernous artery without proximal disease was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) in patients with blunt perineal trauma (48%) than in those with blunt pelvic trauma (8%). it is hypothesized that blunt trauma without immediate impotence may be a potential risk factor for later development of arterial vasculogenic impotence, and that unrecognized or seemingly innocuous trauma may be a factor in cases of idiopathic impotence. patients without trauma and with vascular risk factors have a more diffuse pattern of arteriographically demonstrated arterial lesions.
central nervous system magnesium deficiency. the central nervous system concentration of magnesium (mg++) appears to have a critical level below which neurologic dysfunction occurs. observations presented suggest that the interchange of the mg++ ion between the cerebrospinal fluid, extracellular fluid, and bone is more rapid and dynamic than is usually believed. this is especially so when the hypertrophied parathyroid gland is associated with significant skeletal depletion of mg++ as judged by history rather than serum level. magnesium, much like calcium, has a large presence in bone and has a negative feedback relationship with the parathyroid gland. a decline in central nervous system mg++ may occur when the skeletal buffer system orchestrated largely by the parathyroid glands is activated by an increase in serum calcium. observations in veterinary medicine and obstetrics suggest that the transfer of mg++ from the extracellular fluid into bone during mineralization processes may be extensive. if the inhibition of the hypertrophied parathyroid gland is prolonged and the skeletal depletion of mg++ extreme, serious neurologic symptoms, including seizures, coma, and death, may occur. noise, excitement, and bodily contact appear to precipitate neurologic symptoms in mg+(+)-deficient human subjects as it has been documented to occur in mg+(+)-deficient experimental animals. the similarity of the acute central nervous system demyelinating syndromes with reactive central nervous system mg++ deficiency is reviewed.
strategy for lymphadenectomy in lung cancer three centimeters or less in diameter we have surgically treated 221 patients with a primary lung cancer 3.0 cm or less in diameter. there were 8 patients with a tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter (group a), 84 with a tumor 1.1 to 2.0 cm in diameter (group b), and 129 with a tumor 2.1 to 3.0 cm in diameter (group c). the incidence of n0, n1, and n2 disease was 100%, 0%, and 0%, respectively, for patients in group a; 83%, 5%, and 12% in group b; and 62%, 12%, and 25% in group c (n0 versus n2, p less than 0.01). for the 63 patients with regional lymph node involvement, "skipping" metastasis was present in 28.6%. the 5-year survival rate was 80% for group a, 74% for group b, and 51% for group c (group b versus group c, p less than 0.01). of the 121 patients who underwent complete resection and were followed up for 5 years, 41% had recurrence, 8% with local recurrence and 33% with distant metastasis. therefore, it is important to do as complete a resection as possible together with mediastinal lymphadenectomy. efforts to detect systemic spread should be made at the time of preoperative evaluation, even when the lung tumor is small.
fulminant hepatitis b: induction by hepatitis b virus mutants defective in the precore region and incapable of encoding e antigen. clones of hepatitis b virus were propagated from 10 cases of fulminant hepatitis b after amplification by polymerase chain reaction and their nucleotide sequences of the precore region were determined. all 113 clones from 9 cases had a point mutation from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region, which converted codon 28 for tryptophan (tgg) to a stop codon (tag) and prohibited the synthesis and secretion of hepatitis b e antigen. precore-region defects were not detected in any of 23 clones from the remaining 1 case. by contrast, precore-region defects were not found in any of 180 clones from 8 cases of acute hepatitis b without hepatic failure serving as controls. the source of infection was traceable in 3 cases. the same precore-region defect, along with the sequence identity of 435 nucleotides, was observed in clones from the case of a baby and his grandmother, who carried the virus and was implicated in the transmission, and also in clones from two pediatricians and the carrier patients they attended. these findings support the hypothesis that precore-defective mutants have stronger activity to induce fulminant hepatitis than nondefective viruses.
upper-extremity deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. a prospective study. we prospectively evaluated the prevalence of pulmonary embolism (pe) in 30 consecutive patients with proved deep venous thrombosis (dvt) of the upper extremity. ten patients (seven male and three female; mean age, 43 years) had primary dvt, and 20 patients (14 male and six female; mean age, 52 years) had catheter-related dvt. ventilation-perfusion lung scans were routinely performed at the time of hospital admission to all but one patient (one patient was critically ill, and he died four days after dvt diagnosis because of massive pe). lung scan findings were normal in nine of ten patients with primary dvt, and they were indetermine in the remaining patient. by contrast, perfusion defects were considered highly suggestive of pe in four patients with catheter-related dvt; two patients had indeterminate lung scans, and 13 patients had normal scans. we conclude that pe is not a rare complication in upper extremity dvt, and that patients with catheter-related dvt seem to be at a higher risk.
spinal glioblastomas: report of seven cases and review of the literature. intramedullary glioblastomas are uncommon tumors. they occur chiefly in the cervicothoracic segments, have a slight tendency to occur in the early decades of life, and have a short clinical history before diagnosis. we report seven cases and discuss the salient features of these tumors, particularly the pathological features and treatment, in light of the relevant literature.
pregnancy associated with gorlin's syndrome. a pregnant woman with gorlin's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours. the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure. this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production.
keratin subsets in spindle cell sarcomas. keratins are widespread but synovial sarcoma contains a distinctive keratin polypeptide pattern and desmoplakins. the presence of individual keratin polypeptides and desmoplakins was immunohistochemically studied in 25 spindle cell sarcomas of different types using acetone-fixed frozen sections. results revealed that keratins 8 and 18 were present in a high number of tumors: 9 of 9 synovial sarcomas, 5 of 7 leiomyosarcomas, 5 of 5 malignant schwannomas, and 1 of 4 undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas. in addition to keratins 8 and 18, the glandular component of synovial sarcoma showed prominent reactivity with antibodies to keratins 7 and 19. also the glandular epithelial cells in synovial sarcoma showed desmoplakin immunoreactivity preferentially in a luminal distribution, but desmoplakin was absent in other spindle cell sarcomas. furthermore keratin 13 was seen focally in 4 of 9 synovial sarcomas. in contrast, keratins 7, 13, and 19 were practically absent in leiomyosarcomas, malignant schwannomas, and undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas. the widespread presence of keratins 8 and 18 in various spindle cell sarcomas may reflect aberrant keratin expression in mesenchymal cells, previously described in cultured transformed fibroblasts. the presence of keratins 7 and 19 and desmoplakin is highly associated with morphologically observable epithelial differentiation restricted to synovial sarcoma among spindle cell sarcomas.
poloxamer 407 as an intraperitoneal barrier material for the prevention of postsurgical adhesion formation and reformation in rodent models for reproductive surgery. comtemporary adhesion-prevention regimens for infertility surgery emphasize the use of barrier materials to effect physical separation of injured surfaces before reperitonealization. poloxamer 407 is a biocompatible polymer that displays reverse thermal gelation characteristics; that is, the material exists as a liquid at room temperature and as a solid at body temperature. these properties make it an ideal material for use in laparoscopic surgery. the antiadhesion properties of poloxamer 407 were evaluated in two models. in the first experiment, golden hamsters were subjected to a standardized adhesion-producing lesion in the left uterine horn. poloxamer solutions in concentrations ranging from 15-35% were applied to the injured horn. location, thickness, and extent of adhesion formation were assessed 14 days later. significant reduction in post-traumatic adhesion formation was observed following treatment with the 30-35% solutions. the second experiment was designed as a paradigm of the typical situation encountered in infertility surgery: prevention of adhesion reformation after lysis of established adhesions. new zealand white rabbits were subjected to three laparotomies at 14-day intervals for placement of the adhesion-producing lesion, evaluation (prescore) and surgical lysis of induced adhesions, and subsequent evaluation of adhesion reformation (post-score). the effect of applying poloxamer 407 after adhesiotomy was compared with controls (no treatment). adhesion reformation (post-score) was markedly reduced by poloxamer-407 treatment. further trials of this material in the clinical setting are indicated.
iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia: successful therapy with neuroma resection. we report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region. early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain, with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities. exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site, medial to the knee. resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition. it is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee. saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons. if the condition is intractable, it does respond to surgical therapy.
prostacyclin production in myocardial infarction in the acute phase and during follow-up. twenty-five patients with myocardial infarction were monitored in the acute phase and during follow-up with regard to the in vivo production of prostacyclin (pgi2) and thromboxane (txa2), by measurement of their major urinary metabolites, 2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-txb2, respectively. in 22 of these patients pgi2 and txa2 production were also assessed before, during and after an exercise test performed 6 weeks after discharge. in approximately 24% of patients the in vivo production of prostacyclin did not increase during the acute phase of the infarction process. this inability was usually associated with a decrease in the release of heart muscle enzymes, and was mostly frequently observed in women. during the exercise tolerance test, none of the patients showed any increase in prostacyclin production, in contrast to healthy volunteers, in whom a significant increase was seen. there were no differences between patients with and without an increase in prostacyclin production during the acute phase. at the follow-up 2 years after the myocardial infarction, eight cardiac events had occurred, all of which were noted among patients who exhibited an expected increase in prostacyclin production in association with the infarction. this would seem reasonable, since most of the patients in this group had larger primary infarctions.
success of a program of routine prenatal screening for hepatitis b surface antigen: the first 2 years. prenatal screening for hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) restricted to women with defined risk factors for chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection fails to identify many carriers. a centralized program of routine hbsag screening for all pregnant women in alberta was introduced in 1985. we collected and analysed data for the first 2 years of the program in edmonton to determine the frequency of risk factors for hbsag positivity, the proportion of multiparous hbsag-positive women not identified in previous pregnancies, the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of providing immunoprophylaxis to infants at risk of hbv infection and the degree of success in inducing adequate protection. a total of 149 women (158 pregnancies) were found to be hbsag positive. risk factors were readily ascertainable for 85% of the women; the remaining 15% would not have been identified through risk-selective screening. the most common risk factors were oriental ethnic origin, history of hepatitis, jaundice or multiple transfusions of blood or blood products, and occupational exposure to blood. although 86% of the multiparous hbsag-positive women had risk factors, only 7% had been identified in previous pregnancies. the alberta program appears to be cost-effective. we conclude that only routine prenatal screening will identify all infants at risk of perinatal hbv infection and that a comprehensive public health program involving central laboratories, private physicians and public health staff can be highly effective and efficient in protecting infants against hepatitis b.
minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in the wall of a congenital lung cyst. a case of minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in a congenital lung cyst is reported. two aspects of this case were notable. first, we were able to make the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma by bronchial lavage at an early stage. second, to our knowledge, this is the first case of probable de novo origin of squamous cell carcinoma in a congenital lung cyst.
embolization with particles in thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations: long-term angiographic and clinical results. to evaluate the long-term results of endovascular treatment with particles in the management of thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations (avms), the authors retrospectively reviewed the angiographic and clinical findings in 35 patients. follow-up was 1-15 years (mean, 6 years) in 28 patients and 6-10 months (mean, 7 months) in seven. a total of 158 embolization procedures were performed in 35 patients. revascularization occurred frequently, necessitating multiple endovascular sessions. long-term clinical evaluation showed clinical improvement, compared with the initial status before treatment, in 63% of the patients. clinical aggravation due to embolization was observed in seven patients (20%) after 12 of the 158 endovascular sessions (8%). these results are better than those reported after surgery and indicate that embolization with particles is an efficient and safe tool in the treatment of thoracic intramedullary avms.
beneficial effects of x-irradiation on recovery of lesioned mammalian central nervous tissue. we examined the potential of x-irradiation, at clinical dose levels, to manipulate the cellular constituents and thereby change the consequences of transection injury to adult mammalian central nervous tissue (rat olfactory bulb). irradiation resulted in reduction or elimination of reactive astrocytes at the site of incision provided that it was delivered within a defined time window postinjury. under conditions optimal for the elimination of gliosis (15-18 days postinjury), irradiation of severed olfactory bulbs averted some of the degenerative consequences of lesion. we observed that irradiation was accompanied by prevention of tissue degeneration around the site of lesion, structural healing with maintenance of the typical cell lamination, and rescue of some axotomized mitral cells (principal bulb neurons). thus radiation resulted in partial preservation of normal tissue morphology. it is postulated that intrusive cell populations are generated in response to injury and reactive astrocytes are one such group. our results suggest that selective elimination of these cells by irradiation enabled some of the regenerative processes that are necessary for full recovery to maintain their courses. the cellular targets of these cells, their modes of intervention in recovery, and the potential role of irradiation as a therapeutic modality for injured central nervous system are discussed.
thrombolytic therapy for noncoronary diseases. thrombolytic therapy has been used fairly extensively in the management of acute proximal deep-vein thrombophlebitis of the extremities, acute pulmonary embolism, and acute peripheral arterial thrombosis and embolism in addition to acute thrombotic coronary events. in the presence of acceptable indications and a favorable benefit to risk ratio, this form of therapy, when successful, has served as a useful adjunct in the management of these disorders. in deep-vein thrombophlebitis, lysis of the thrombus before permanent pathological changes (eg, organization, scarring) have occurred can prevent venous valvular dysfunction and postural venous hypertension and its complications, especially the postphlebitic syndrome. in the more severe forms of acute pulmonary embolism, thrombolytic therapy, when applied early after symptom onset, decreases morbidity and is likely to prevent a chronic increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and persistent pulmonary hypertension. in peripheral arterial thrombo-occlusive events, early restoration of flow through thrombolysis has been shown to limit ischemic damage and serve as a useful supplement to angioplasty or surgery. thrombolytic therapy has been used less extensively in acute strokes. here the danger of reperfusion causing bleeding into a softened area of brain undergoing infarction has slowed its evaluation for this disorder; its application to stroke remains experimental.
gastrointestinal side-effects of octreotide during long-term treatment of acromegaly. gastrointestinal side-effects of prolonged therapy (greater than 2 yr) with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide were studied in 10 acromegalic patients. after 2 yr of therapy, 6 of 10 patients had newly developed gallstones, complicated by cholangitis and jaundice in 1. serum vitamin b-12 concentrations declined in all 10 patients [from 380 +/- 32 to 172 +/- 21 pmol/l (mean +/- se); p = 0.023] and became abnormally low in 4. gastric biopsy specimens, obtained during gastroscopy (9 patients), showed moderate to severe active gastritis, with damage to the superficial and deeper layers of the mucosa in 9 of 9 and focal atrophy in 7 of 9 patients. campylobacter pylori was found in the antral mucosa in 8 of 9 patients. although information is lacking on similar studies in untreated acromegalic patients, we suggest that patients receiving chronic octreotide therapy be closely monitored for these and possible other side-effects related to gastrointestinal actions of octreotide.
leiomyosarcoma of the sinonasal tract. a clinicopathologic study of nine cases. the clinicopathologic features of nine cases of sinonasal tract leiomyosarcoma (sntl) referred to the armed forces institute of pathology, washington, dc, during the period from 1970 through 1988 are described. this report represents the largest study to date on sntl, and our results are compared with the 21 previously reported cases of sntl. of the nine cases described, patients ranged in age from 22 to 86 years (mean, 55 years). the most frequent clinical presentation was nasal obstruction unilaterally. the neoplasms were limited solely to the nasal cavity in four cases (44%) and involved both the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses in the remaining five cases. light microscopic, immunocytochemical, and ultrastructural features served to characterize these tumors as malignant neoplasms of smooth-muscle origin. in contrast with previous studies, immunocytochemistry was employed to differentiate sntl from other spindle cell malignancies of the region, using newly available monoclonal antibodies to smooth-muscle antigens. treatment was surgical. radiotherapy or chemotherapy did not appear to affect the progression of the disease. furthermore, no relationship was found between the aggressiveness of sntl and morphologic parameters (eg, mitotic count and tumor size). instead, prognosis was dependent on the distribution of disease at presentation. of all 30 patients with sntl described to date, 10 had the neoplasm confined solely to the nasal cavity. the 10 neoplasms did not recur. we conclude that sntl may best be regarded as a locally aggressive neoplasm with only limited metastatic potential and that it could be curable by complete surgical excision.
a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit for biliary atresia. forty-six consecutive patients with biliary atresia were operated on at our institution during the 11-year period between 1978 and 1989. their ages at operation ranged from 18 to 153 days (mean, 59 days). after dissecting the porta hepatis structures by kasai operation, a biliointestinal anastomosis was constructed with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit in all cases. the intestinal valve is an intussuscepted muscular valve. valvular function was examined radiologically. the upper gastrointestinal series demonstrated no reflux of contrast material into the conduit proximal to the valve and liver scintigraphy demonstrated that radioactive isotope drained readily into the duodenum through the valve. thirty-nine of the forty-six patients (85%) had bile drainage after initial operation. at present 30 patients (65%) are alive without jaundice, 6 (13%) are alive with jaundice, and 10 (22%) are dead. the 5-year jaundice-free survival rate was 64%. cholangitis occurred in 9 of 39 patients (23%) who had obtained apparent bile drainage: 5 had tractable cholangitis and 4 had refractory cholangitis. reoperation restored bile flow in 2 of 8 patients who abruptly ceased to have bile drainage without cholangitis. in conclusion, with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit, the incidence of cholangitis was decreased, its medical control became easier, and the survival rate was improved.
the effects of cyclosporin a on eicosanoid excretion in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. alterations in renal eicosanoid levels have been postulated as a factor in cyclosporin a (csa) nephrotoxicity. the effects of csa on renal eicosanoid excretion in rheumatoid arthritis were studied over a 24-week period, during which treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was discontinued. the initial dosage of csa was 4 mg/kg/day; at week 24, the mean dosage of csa was 3.9 mg/kg/day. at week 24, the mean (+/- sd) serum creatinine level (1.04 +/- 0.24 mg/dl) was 32% above the baseline value; renal blood flow had decreased by 21% (p less than 0.03) and the glomerular filtration rate had decreased by 16%. there was a significant increase (p less than 0.03) in the 2,3-dinor thromboxane b2 level at week 2, but there was no significant change in the levels of the other eicosanoids. this study demonstrates that after csa treatment, there is a selective increase in a thromboxane metabolite that parallels an increase in renal vascular resistance, even in the absence of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, and with unimpaired formation of other vasodilator eicosanoids.
steroid anabolic drugs and arterial complications in an athlete--a case history. serious side effects and complications have been attributed to anabolic and androgenic steroids when used for medical reasons or when taken in sports in hopes of increasing strength and, hence, performance. the author presents a case of an athlete who experienced two metachronous arterial complications after taking these drugs: a cerebrovascular accident caused by a carotid artery thrombus that partially embolized to the brain and, later, a severe ischemic episode in a lower limb caused by a diffused distal arterial thrombosis. this patient represents the first reported case of vascular events in an otherwise healthy athlete taking androgens to increase his skeletal muscle mass.
interferon-alpha receptor expression and regulation in chronic hepatitis b virus infection. interferon-alpha elicits antiviral and immunoregulatory activities by binding to specific receptors on the cell surface. in this study, binding characteristics of interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were studied using radioiodinated recombinant interferon-alpha 2b to determine interferon-alpha receptor numbers and dissociation constants. a single class of interferon-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets. peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection (n = 20) and controls (n = 16) expressed a similar number of interferon-alpha receptors (484 +/- 175 vs. 511 +/- 168 sites/cell respectively, p = ns) with a similar dissociation constant (dissociation constant approximately 0.2 to 0.7 nmol/l). expression of interferon-alpha receptors was similar in monocyte-enriched and lymphocyte-enriched fractions in both groups. similar changes were observed in patients receiving alpha-interferon therapy. there was no correlation between interferon-alpha receptors expression and serum transaminase, serum hbsag, serum hbv dna, liver histological findings or the response to interferon-alpha therapy. after incubation of lymphocytes in vitro with interferon-alpha 2b (10 to 1,000 u/ml), interferon-alpha receptors number dropped by 42% to 80%, but this was associated with an increase in binding affinity (dissociation constant approximately 0.05 to 0.15 nmol/l) in both patients and controls. there was significant delay in the initial phase of receptor recovery in the patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection compared with normal controls (days 1 and 2, p less than 0.05).
gynecologic cancer in patients with subacute cerebellar degeneration predicted by anti-purkinje cell antibodies and limited in metastatic volume. between 1982 and 1989, 19 patients with gynecologic carcinoma, paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, and seropositivity for anti-purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies were identified at our institution. seven of the patients had no clinical, computed tomographic, or magnetic resonance imaging evidence of cancer but had undergone laparotomy solely because anti-purkinje cell antibodies were found in their serum; all had high-grade adenocarcinoma. cerebellar symptoms preceded or coincided with the initial cancer diagnosis in 15 patients and preceded the diagnosis of recurrent cancer in 4 patients. the cancers were 14 ovarian, 2 fallopian tube, 2 surface papillary, and 1 poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in a periaortic lymph node. two remarkable surgical observations in patients with high-grade ovarian and tubal cancers were the conspicuous lack of peritoneal implants and the small metastatic volume. a comparison of the 8 patients who had primary stage iii cancer with 24 matched control patients without paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration revealed no difference in primary tumor volume but a significantly smaller volume of metastatic tumor in the seropositive group (p = 0.05). anti-purkinje cell antibodies were not detected in 111 neurologically normal patients with advanced ovarian cancer. the small metastatic volume in the face of high-grade and advanced stage malignancy in seropositive patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration suggests that an immune response to the tumor (presumably cross-reactive with cerebellar cells) may impair the metastatic process. earlier diagnosis and treatment of cancer, based on prompt serologic testing, may offer an improved neurologic and oncologic prognosis.
expression of the human papillomavirus e7 oncogene during cell transformation is sufficient to induce susceptibility to lysis by activated macrophages. human papillomaviruses (hpv), and in particular hpv type 16, are etiologic agents in the development of cervical cancer, which is the second most common form of cancer in women worldwide. mammalian cells are susceptible to transformation in vitro by the e6 and e7 oncogenes derived from the hpv-16 genome. nih-3t3 cells transfected with the hpv-16 e7 oncogene were found to exhibit cytolytic susceptibility to murine-activated macrophages. in comparison, e6 oncogene-expressing cells were not susceptible to lysis by activated macrophages. the e7 oncoprotein is multifunctional, being capable of complexing with the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene (anti-oncogene) product, stimulating dna synthesis, and causing cell transformation in vitro. macrophage killing assays performed on cell lines expressing e7 mutants revealed that the ability to complex the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene product and stimulate dna synthesis did not induce susceptibility to activated macrophages, whereas the ability of e7 to cause transformation was required to induce susceptibility to activated macrophages. these data suggest that cell transformation is a more important prerequisite for inducing susceptibility to activated macrophages than is the loss of tumor suppressor gene function. this study also provides an initial link between hpv-16 oncogene expression and the ability of activated macrophages to selectively recognize and destroy hpv-16-associated neoplastic cells.
research and policy directions. salt and blood pressure. the relation between dietary intake of sodium chloride and blood pressure levels remains controversial. the critical questions concern whether there is a susceptible subgroup at risk of elevated blood pressure because of sodium chloride consumption. if there is such a subgroup, what is its size and how can it be identified? further clinical trials are needed to determine the long-term effects of sodium chloride reduction on blood pressure. the risk of disease, including stroke and coronary heart disease, is linear with blood pressure levels. a small change in blood pressure can have a relatively large impact on disease, even within the normal range of blood pressure.
effect of halothane and isoflurane on postischemic "stunned" myocardium in the dog. short periods of coronary artery occlusion are known to produce prolonged periods of ventricular dysfunction. the effects of halothane or isoflurane on contractility and metabolism in postischemic "stunned" myocardium were studied in an open-chest canine model in which the left anterior descending artery (lad) was occluded for 15 min and then reperfused. regional function in the lad and circumflex artery (circ) areas were measured with sonomicrometry, and metabolic data were determined from simultaneous arterial and venous measurements of oxygen and lactate. halothane and isoflurane produced equivalent decreases in systolic shortening in both normal (circ) and stunned (lad) areas of the heart. furthermore, the amount of depression was similar with either halothane or isoflurane. halothane 0.75 mac significantly decreased systolic shortening in both the lad region (from 38.8 +/- 25.9% to 11.0 +/- 21.8%) and in the circ region (from 116.7 +/- 24.7% to 87.5 +/- 23.3%). at equivalent mac concentrations of isoflurane, the values were 42.5 +/- 45.7 to -7.0 +/- 49.9% in the lad region and 91.5 +/- 11.9% to 66.9 +/- 23.9% in the circ area. at 1.5-mac halothane, systolic shortening in the lad region decreased from 47.9 +/- 47.2% to -0.6 +/- 20.3% and in the circ area from 114.6 +/- 16.8% to 76.0 +/- 18.7%. isoflurane at 1.5 mac produced significant decreases, from 23.4 +/- 54.5% to -15.6 +/- 27.1% in the lad region and from 94.4 +/- 33.2% to 61.3 +/- 28.2 in the circ area.
a case of amnesia after excision of the septum pellucidum. tumours of the septum pellucidum (sp) are rare and seldom associated with memory impairment either before or after operation. a patient is described who developed amnesia after transcallosal excision of a tumour of the sp. radiology did not show any major lesion of the brain areas traditionally associated with amnesia. because septal nuclei could have been damaged during surgery their possible role in memory functions is discussed.
opiates suppress carrageenan-induced edema and hyperthermia at doses that inhibit hyperalgesia. this study determined whether opiates alter vascular components of inflammation (hyperthermia, edema and plasma extravasation) in addition to the suppression of hyperalgesia. rats were administered carrageenan into one hind paw and saline into the other hind paw, followed by i.p. injection of morphine (0.2-5.0 mg/kg) or saline at 60 min, and testing at 90 min after hind paw injections. morphine produced a dose-dependent reduction in carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia (17-53%), hyperthermia (39-53%) and edema (24-36%). morphine treatment did not alter the temperatures of the contralateral saline-injected paws, indicating that opiate suppression of hyperthermia was not confounded by alterations in systemic body temperature or blood flow. the opiate effects on inflammation were stereospecific since levorphanol (1 mg/kg), but not dextrorphan (1 mg/kg), suppressed carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia, hyperthermia and edema. pre-treatment with naltrexone (1.5 mg/kg) blocked the effects of a 5 mg/kg dose of morphine sulfate on hyperalgesia, hyperthermia and edema. in a separate study, i.v. injection of morphine sulfate (2 mg/kg) reduced plasma extravasation by 41% (p less than 0.01). morphine administration resulted in significantly greater increases in paw withdrawal latencies in the inflamed (38-139%) than the contralateral, saline-treated paws (4-19%). the results indicate that opiates exert a moderate, though significant, reduction in the vascular signs of inflammation in addition to their reduction of hyperalgesia. the mechanisms for this vascular effect involve inhibition of both vasodilation (as indicated by a decrease in hyperthermia) and inhibition of vascular permeability. in addition, opiates exhibit enhanced antinociceptive effects in inflamed paws, even when compared to uninjured paws in the same animal.
recurrent or metastatic disease in select patients with adrenocortical carcinoma. aggressive resection vs chemotherapy. in a retrospective, nonrandomized comparison of patients with first recurrence of adrenocortical cancer, 18 patients were treated with chemotherapy (primarily mitotane) and 15 patients were treated with surgical resection plus similar chemotherapy. surgical resection of recurrent adrenocortical cancer was often extensive, with morbidity in 20% of patients and no mortality. mitotane therapy was ineffective at controlling tumor growth. median survival from the time of diagnosis for all patients was only 23 months and no patient was cured. disease-free interval greater than 12 months was associated with prolonged survival, but it only occurred in six patients (18%), with a similar frequency in both treatment groups. surgical resection of recurrent disease was associated with prolonged survival from the time of first recurrence. the potential benefit of this resection was evident in the 5 patients (33%) who were able to live greater than 5 years from the time of first recurrence with improvement in symptoms and signs of hypercortisolism. although no patient with recurrent adrenal cancer could be cured, resection of recurrent disease was associated with a slight prolongation of survival and good palliation of cushing's syndrome.
hepatic metabolism of cholesterol in crohn's disease. effect of partial resection of ileum. to study cholesterol metabolism in crohn's disease and especially the effect of ileum resection, liver biopsy specimens were obtained from patients undergoing partial ileal resection because of crohn's disease (n = 17) and patients with crohn's colitis undergoing colectomy (n = 3). gallstone-free patients (n = 16) undergoing cholecystectomy because of adenomyomas or polyps of the gallbladder served as controls. the mean levels of cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase activity, rate-determining enzymes in bile acid, and cholesterol synthesis, respectively, were twofold to threefold higher in the ileum-resected patients than in the controls. significant positive correlations were obtained between length of resected ileum and cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity. provided patients who had received total parenteral nutrition preoperatively were excluded from analysis, a significant correlation was also observed between length of resected ileum and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase activity. significant positive correlations were also obtained between length of resected ileum and serum levels of 7 alpha-hydroxycholesterol (a marker for bile acid biosynthesis) and lathosterol (a marker for cholesterol synthesis). the plasma levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were negatively correlated to the length of resected ileum. the expression of hepatic low-density lipoprotein-receptor binding activity was determined in five of the patients and in three of the controls. a significant positive correlation was observed between 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase activity and low-density lipoprotein-receptor binding activity. the results show that malabsorption of bile acids leads to parallel stimulation of cholesterol synthesis, cholesterol degradation, and low-density lipoprotein-receptor expression in human liver. the resulting effect in the present patients was a significant reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.
acute respiratory tract infections among a birth cohort of children from cali, colombia, who were studied through 17 months of age. for this study, 340 children less than 18 months old from a low-income, urban neighborhood in cali, colombia, were observed from birth by means of weekly home visits to detect cases of acute respiratory tract infection. all suspected cases were confirmed by trained doctors in a special clinic. information on symptoms, signs, and potential risk factors was documented prospectively. etiologic agents were identified in cases of lower respiratory tract infection (lri). the overall incidence of acute respiratory tract infection was 6.6 cases per child-year at risk. the incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 4.9 cases per child-year at risk and that of lri was 1.7 cases per child-year at risk. crowding in the home was found to be significantly associated with an increased incidence of lri. respiratory syncytial virus was the viral agent most frequently isolated from cultures of nasopharyngeal aspirates of children with lri. staphylococcus aureus was the bacterial agent most frequently isolated from the blood of patients with lri.
increased fatigue of isovelocity vs. isometric contractions of canine diaphragm. a comparison of fatigue as a loss of force with repeated contractions over time was performed in canine respiratory muscle by isometric (nonshortening) and isovelocity (shortening) contractions. in situ diaphragm muscle strips were attached to a linear ergometer and electrically stimulated (30 or 40 hz) via the left phrenic nerve to produce either isometric (n = 12) or isovelocity (n = 12) contractions (1.5 s) from optimal muscle length (lo = 8.8 cm). similar velocities of shortening between isovelocity experiments [0.19 +/- 0.02 (sd) lo/s] were produced by maximizing the mean power output (wmax = 210 +/- 27 mw/cm2) that could be developed over 1.5 s when displacement was approximately 0.30 lo. initial peak isometric tension was 1.98 kg/cm2, whereas initial peak isovelocity tension was 1.84 kg/mc2 (p less than 0.01) or 93% of initial isometric tension. fatigue trials of 5 min were conducted on muscles contracting at a constant duty cycle (0.43). at the end of the trials, peak isovelocity tension had fallen to 50% of initial isometric tension (p less than 0.01), whereas peak isometric tension had only fallen by 27%. these results indicate that muscle shortening during force production has a significant influence on diaphragm muscle fatigue. we conclude that the effects of shortening on fatigue must be considered in models of respiratory muscle function, because these muscles typically shorten during breathing.
comparison of dna and karyotype aneuploidy in malignant lymphomas. tumors from 48 patients with non-hodgkin's lymphoma were examined for flow cytometric dna ploidy and chromosome constitution to determine the degree of concordance of these two methods. histologically, there were 24 low-grade, 19 intermediate, and 5 high-grade lymphomas. flow cytometry revealed an aneuploid cell population in 19% of the cases. the mean dna index of the aneuploid tumors was 1.58 +/- 0.71. the frequency of dna aneuploidy was only slightly higher (23%) in intermediate than in low-grade lymphomas (17%). none of the five high-grade lymphomas showed dna aneuploidy. the chromosome study was successful in 81% of cases (39 of 48), and clonal chromosome abnormalities were observed in 92% of these (36 of 39). in most of the chromosomally abnormal clones the chromosome number was in the diploid range. most tumors with pseudodiploid (46 chromosomes), hypodiploid (45-44 chromosomes), or hyperdiploid (47-49 chromosomes) clones were dna diploid by flow cytometry. on the other hand, all specimens with a chromosome number exceeding 50 were dna aneuploid by flow cytometry. therefore, flow cytometric dna analysis appears to be a rather coarse method that will detect aneuploidy only when there is a major increase in chromosome material.
dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy: the experience with its application in one hundred seventy patients with known or suspected unstable angina. we evaluated the safety, accuracy, and potential clinical utility of intravenous dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy with thallium-201 in 170 patients, 78 with suspected and 92 with known unstable angina. all had coronary angiography. noncardiac side effects (26%), induced chest discomfort (44%), and st segment changes (12%) were similar in the two groups. no significant arrhythmias occurred. two patients had prolonged chest pain, both with extensive reversible image abnormalities and associated creatinine kinase-mb release. both had elective bypass surgery. twenty-eight patients had normal coronary arteries, and 35 had single-vessel disease. scintigraphic per patient sensitivity and specificity were 91% and 79% with a per vessel sensitivity of 74% and a per vessel specificity of 78% without between-group differences. during a brief follow-up period, 62 patients with image abnormalities had coronary revascularization, and there were seven deaths without intergroup differences. in a similar patient group that did not have angiography, scintigraphic defects were less frequent and less extensive, revascularization was not performed, and subsequent deaths occurred less often. dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy is an accurate alternative to exercise testing in the evaluation of patients with unstable angina pectoris. although not without risk, the method appears relatively safe and should be considered as a guide to diagnosis, and probably to prognosis and management.
the gastrin hypothesis. implications for antisecretory drug selection. newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion, such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole, are becoming available for general use. these drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting h2-receptor antagonists. the safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question, however. lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like (ecl) cells in the gastric corpus. available evidence supports a role of gastrin, which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria. in humans, hypergastrinemic states such as zollinger-ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors. such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion. to date, however, no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans. if achlorhydric doses are not used, significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained. such measures should minimize any risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs.
intracranial pressure in african children with cerebral malaria opening lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (csf) pressure was measured with a paediatric spinal fluid manometer in 26 of 61 kenyan children (mean age 39 months) with cerebral malaria. in all cases pressure was above normal (mean [sd]22.6 [7.4] cm csf, range 10.5-36). clinical features of our patients suggest that intracranial hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria in children, especially as a cause of death. we suggest that raised intracranial pressure is secondary to increased cerebral blood volume. lowering intracranial pressure may significantly reduce the mortality and morbidity of cerebral malaria. the potential risks and benefits of lumbar puncture should be considered carefully in patients with suspected cerebral malaria.
laser therapy for vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia after hysterectomy. in recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of reported cases of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (vain) after hysterectomy. until about 10 years ago radiation or surgery had been the therapeutic modality mostly used for this disease. more recently, topical drugs, such as bleomycin and 5-fluorouracil cream, have been used, but they are often ineffective and poorly tolerated. for the last 14 years we have used the co2 laser for the treatment of vain and have treated a total of 143 patients. our use of a combination of wire sutures through the vaginal mucosa and the introduction of fluids into the underlying submucosal areas allows retraction and ballooning of the recesses and scars and permits us to place the vaginal mucosa at right angles to the laser beam to allow complete treatment.
suboptimal response to hepatitis b vaccine in drug users. fifty-five drug users institutionalized in a community for drug detoxification were vaccinated against hepatitis b virus (hbv) with a recombinant yeast-derived vaccine (engerix b, smith kline biologicals, belgium). at 0, 1, and 6 months, 20 micrograms of vaccine was given in the deltoid to these patients, of whom 17 had no serum hbv markers, 15 had only the antibody to core antigen (anti-hbc), and 23 had anti-hbc and antibody to the surface antigen (anti-hbs) values lower than the allegedly "protective" value of 10 miu/ml. forty-one healthy controls were vaccinated in parallel. at month 7 (ie, 1 month after the third dose of vaccine), in 76% (13/17) of drug users with no hbv markers, 6% (1/15) of those with isolated anti-hbc, and 69% (16/23) of those with anti-hbc and nonprotective anti-hbs, protective anti-hbs titers (greater than or equal to 10 miu/ml) developed, compared with 97% (40/41) of controls. at month 24, these rates fell to 43% for drug users with no hbv marker, 0% for those with anti-hbc, 31% for those with anti-hbc and anti-hbs, and 86% for controls. the drug users who did not respond to vaccination were more likely to be those with evidence of prior hbv infection and anergy to skin tests. this indicates that unresponsiveness to hepatitis b vaccine in drug users may be due to altered immunity.
differential histopathology of primary atherosclerotic and restenotic lesions in coronary arteries and saphenous vein bypass grafts: analysis of tissue obtained from 73 patients by directional atherectomy. vascular tissue obtained using a directional percutaneous atherectomy device was examined microscopically. tissue was obtained from coronary arteries without prior instrumentation (primary lesions, n = 31), aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass grafts with primary lesions (n = 8), coronary arteries with lesions developing after prior balloon angioplasty or mechanical atherectomy (restenotic lesions, n = 30) and vein bypass grafts with restenotic lesions (n = 4). primary lesions were characterized by dense intimal fibrosis with necrotic debris (83% of intimal tissue) and foam cells typical of atherosclerosis. these lesions frequently contained cholesterol crystals (45% of coronary arteries, 50% of vein grafts) and calcium deposits (65% of coronary arteries, 38% of vein grafts). restenotic lesions were characterized by an increased proportion of loose fibroproliferative tissue (45% of coronary artery intima, 35% of vein graft intima). immunohistochemical stains confirmed this proliferative tissue to be primarily smooth muscle cells. thrombus was rarely observed. comparison of resected tissues indicated that dense fibrosis and necrosis are significantly more common in primary than in restenotic lesions (83% versus 56% of intimal tissue, p = 0.0005), whereas smooth muscle cell hyperplasia is more common in restenotic than in primary lesions (44% versus 17% of intimal tissue, p less than 0.0005). partial-thickness resection of medial tissue or full-thickness resection of media with associated adventitial tissue occurred in 27 (56%) of 39 primary atheromatous lesions and 16 (47%) of 34 restenotic lesions; subintimal tissue obtained from primary lesions appeared identical to that obtained from restenotic lesions. these data indicate that the histopathologic characteristics of the neointimal layer of restenotic lesions differ from those of the intimal layer of primary atherosclerotic lesions.
accelerated fractionation for high-grade cerebral astrocytomas. preliminary treatment results. a phase i/ii accelerated fractionation study for high-grade cerebral astrocytomas began in october 1987. forty-two patients, 25 men and 17 women, were entered in the study. median age was 58.5 years of age (range, 32 to 78 years). performance status was 0, 1, 2, and 3 on eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog) scale for 13, 19, 9, and 1 patients, respectively. thirty-six patients had undergone partial resection, and six had stereotactic biopsy only. all patients had histologically proven astrocytomas (6 grade 3, and 36 grade 4). treatment consisted of radiation therapy doses of 4400 cgy in 22 daily fractions to the whole brain plus a boost of 1600 cgy in 8 fractions given concomitantly with the last 8 whole-brain treatments using a twice daily schedule with an interfraction interval of 8 hours. median survival time was 57 weeks from the date of starting irradiation. survival was 50% and 28% at 1 and 2 years, respectively. alopecia and scalp erythema were seen in all patients; nine patients had localized areas of moist desquamation in the retroauricular region. decreased hearing and serous otitis media were seen in five patients within 1 to 2 months from the end of treatment. increasing somnolence was marked in eight patients with progressive deterioration of performance status; computerized axial tomography (cat) scan studies in all eight patients showed evidence of disease recurrence with associated brain edema and mass effect. three patients had a second resection for a recurrent tumor with no evidence of brain necrosis at craniotomy. to date, the accelerated fractionation schedule appears to be well tolerated with valuable shortening of overall treatment time. the preliminary results are encouraging, and longer follow-up time is required to evaluate tumor control and toxicity.
improved survival after hemopump insertion in patients experiencing postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock during cardiopulmonary bypass. immediate placement of a hemopump (hp) ventricular assist device was undertaken in nine patients (seven men, two women) after other attempts at weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) after coronary bypass surgery had failed. all nine patients (100%) were successfully weaned from cpb, and six (63.3%) gradually improved enough to permit removal of hp support. five (83.3%) of the six who were weaned from cpb survived beyond hospital discharge. hp support was evaluated in terms of vital organ function, incidence of complications, and clinical outcome. in both survivors (s) and nonsurvivors (ns), serial hemodynamic measurements were taken. although there were few differences in hemodynamic parameters between groups at 4 hr, by 24 hr the s group had markedly improved cardiac index, glasgow coma scale, urinary output, and pulse pressure and required far less inotropic support than did the ns group. all four patients who required high dose inotropic agents to maintain acceptable end-organ perfusion on hp support died; three were unable to tolerate weaning from the hp, and all died within 72 hr of surgery because of ineffective myocardial recovery. none of the survivors required additional early inotropic augmentation. renal perfusion appeared to be well maintained, even with mean arterial pressures below 60 mmhg during hp support. there were no episodes of hemolysis, infection, or limb ischemia in either group. thus, the hemopump provided excellent circulatory support for those patients who could not be weaned from cpb by traditional methods.
prevention of hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for elective caesarean section by wrapping of the legs. twenty-four parturients undergoing elective caesarean section were allocated randomly to have the legs wrapped with elasticated esmarch bandages immediately following spinal anaesthesia or to serve as controls. significant hypotension (systolic arterial pressure less than 100 mm hg and less than 80% of baseline value) was treated with i.v. ephedrine in 5-mg boluses. leg wrapped patients had a significantly (p = 0.0033) lower incidence (16.7%) of hypotension than controls (83.3%). only two patients in the leg wrapped group required ephedrine compared with 10 in the control group. systolic arterial pressure was significantly (p less than 0.05) less in control subjects at 4, 5 and 6 min following spinal injection. no patient in the leg wrapped group became hypotensive following removal of the elasticated bandages.
prolonged indomethacin therapy for the prevention of recurrences of patent ductus arteriosus. we tested the hypothesis that prolonged maintenance indomethacin therapy would allow more effective closure of patent ductus arteriosus (pda) and thereby decrease the recurrence rate. thirty-nine low birthweight neonates (less than 1500 gm) with confirmed pda were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to receive standard indomethacin therapy (three doses), followed either by maintenance indomethacin therapy (0.2 mg/kg/day) for 5 days or by an equivalent volume of placebo for 5 days. of the 20 infants who received maintenance indomethacin therapy, two (10%) required additional therapy and one of these required surgical ligation. of the 19 infants who received only the first three indomethacin doses, nine (47%) required additional therapy for pda (p less than 0.05) and seven of these had a ligation (p less than 0.05). we conclude that maintenance indomethacin therapy, in comparison with short-term indomethacin therapy, decreases the incidence of surgical pda ligations, eliminates most pda recurrences, and does not increase toxic effects of indomethacin in the low birth weight infant with pda.
intrathecal anaesthesia for day-care surgery. a retrospective study of 160 cases using 25- and 26-gauge spinal needles. the records of 160 day-care surgical patients who received intrathecal anaesthesia were reviewed. no major complications were recorded. the incidence of postspinal headache after puncture with a 25-gauge spinal needle was nearly four times more frequent compared to a 26-gauge needle. the occurrence of postspinal headache in patients over the age of 45 years was significantly less frequent (p less than 0.05) than in younger patients. intrathecal anaesthesia was acceptable to 91% of outpatients in this group.
long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis b: a prospective, randomized treatment trial. we conducted a prospective, randomized trial to study the efficacy and tolerance of long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis b. ten patients were randomly assigned to a 6-month interferon regimen, and 10 patients were assigned to a 3-week interferon trial. eleven patients (five assigned to long-term treatment and six to short-term treatment) did not complete interferon therapy: eight had either severe thrombocytopenia or neutropenia; one had pronounced fatigue in relationship to administration of interferon; one had spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and sepsis and died; and one had a massive fatal variceal hemorrhage during interferon therapy. most of the serious hematologic complications occurred in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism. in one patient, seroconversion to hepatitis b virus dna negativity occurred before the onset of treatment. four of the five patients able to complete the 6-month interferon regimen and only one of four patients able to complete the 3-week trial had seroconversion to hepatitis b virus dna negativity. thus, we conclude that the therapeutic response was better among patients who were able to complete a 6-month interferon trial. in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism, development of either severe thrombocytopenia or leukopenia associated with interferon therapy precluded completion of treatment.
characterization of rat hyperplastic bile ductular epithelial cells in culture and in vivo. a novel intrahepatic biliary cell culture/in vivo transplantation system has been developed with an essentially pure population of bile ductular epithelial cells isolated from rat liver 6-12 weeks after bile duct ligation. in primary culture, these cells retain staining strongly for gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and glutathione s-transferase p. the cytoplasm of cultured bile ductular cells reacts with an anti-laminin antibody, but loses immunoreactivity with a monoclonal anti-cytokeratin 19 antibody. semiconservative dna synthesis in the cultured cells was dependent upon the continued presence of 10% fetal calf serum in the medium. replicating bile ductular cells could be subcultured for a finite number of passages. in addition, freshly isolated bile ductular epithelial cells gave rise to well differentiated bile ductular structures when transplanted into the interscapular fat pads of syngeneic recipient rats.
pathogenesis of antigen-induced arthritis in mice deficient in neutrophil elastase and cathepsin g. the contribution of neutrophil-derived elastase and cathepsin g to joint pathology has been examined in immune arthritis in the mouse. neutrophils from beige mice are genetically deficient in lysosomal elastase and cathepsin g, but have normal levels of the acid hydrolases, beta-glucuronidase, and n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase. the development of antigen-induced arthritis in normal mice has been compared with that in beige mice. the pattern of synovitis (both leukocyte accumulation and plasma leakage) were indistinguishable in normal and beige mice. cartilage proteoglycan depletion was quantified by measuring the decrease in safranin o staining intensity, and this, too, was unaltered in mice lacking elastase and cathepsin g. these results suggest that neutrophil elastase and cathepsin g do not contribute to these aspects of joint pathology in antigen-induced arthritis in the mouse.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan ingestion. analysis of four patients and implications for differential diagnosis and pathogenesis four patients fulfilling the case definition for eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome are described, including one whose disease began in 1986. each displayed a variety of symptoms: one suffered principally from myalgia and recovered spontaneously on discontinuation of l-tryptophan therapy; one exhibited progressive sclerodermiform skin changes, neuropathy, and myopathy; a third had prominent neuromuscular disease and sclerodermiform skin changes; and the fourth experienced profound weight loss, an axonal polyneuropathy, and perivascular lymphoid infiltrates simulating a lymphoma. evidence of t-cell activation was present in peripheral blood and affected tissues during the clinically active progressive phase of disease. among other manifestations pleural effusion, cutaneous vasculitis, joint contractures, and bloody diarrhea were observed. a history of l-tryptophan ingestion should be sought in patients with myalgia, fatigue, or the above outlined symptoms.
detection of human papillomavirus-genomic dna in oral epithelial dysplasias, oral smokeless tobacco-associated leukoplakias, and epithelial malignancies. human papillomavirus (hpv) is an infectious agent that is increasingly associated with mucosal cancers, in particular cancer of the cervix. the present investigation was undertaken in an attempt to determine whether hpv could be easily detected in biopsies of oral tissues, specifically oral squamous cell carcinomas, oral epithelial dysplasias, smokeless tobacco keratoses, verrucous hyperplasia, and verrucous carcinoma. in situ dna hybridization methods were used to isolate specific hpv genomes. among 100 instances of benign leukoplakia, only 4% of non-tobacco-related and 10% of smokeless tobacco-related lesions harbored viral sequences. we were able to detect viral sequences in dysplastic lesions 3% of the time. alternatively, 17% and 20% of the verrucous hyperplasias and verrucous carcinomas were positive for viral nucleic acids. six percent of the squamous cell carcinomas harbored hpv. on the basis of these findings, it is concluded that hpv of known genotype can be identified in oral premalignant and malignant neoplasms.
changes in circulating norepinephrine with hemofiltration in advanced congestive heart failure. in congestive heart failure (chf), hemofiltration is associated with an obvious decrease in circulating norepinephrine. this method was used for investigating the mechanisms whereby plasma norepinephrine is increased in chronic chf. in 23 cases of advanced chf, hemofiltration (2,983 +/- 1,228 ml) lowered plasma norepinephrine by 515 +/- 444 pg/ml. this effect was prompt, persisted or became greater in the next 24 hours. it was not associated with significant changes in cardiac output, aortic pressure or systemic vascular resistance. it did not appear to depend on variations in parameters related to the sympathetic activity, such as plasma renin, right atrial, wedge pulmonary artery and renal perfusion pressures, and was independent of duration and amount of hemofiltration. these observations did not support the concept that the norepinephrine decrease was the main consequence of a neural sympathetic inhibition. hemofiltration increased diuresis by 606 +/- 415 ml; changes were prompt and correlated inversely (r = -0.7; p less than 0.01) with those in plasma norepinephrine. the same unknown mechanism of the increased urinary output might potentiate the norepinephrine removal from the blood by the kidney, or hemofiltration and the augmented diuresis might result in a regression of congestion of lungs and kidneys, leading to an improved extraction of norepinephrine. in chf, a relation may exist between fluid retention and norepinephrine and in advanced stages, circulating norepinephrine, although strikingly increased, is devoid of important cardiovascular effects. at these stages, plasma norepinephrine is probably unreliable as an index of the sympathetic neural activity.
src expression in small-cell lung carcinoma and other neuroendocrine malignancies. the proto-oncogene c-src codes for two tyrosine kinases, pp60c-src and pp60c-srcn. the latter protein appears to be exclusively expressed in neurons and neuronally differentiated tumors. in cell lines derived from neuroblastoma and small-cell lung carcinoma, src expression correlates positively with neuroendocrine differentiation. however, pp60c-srcn is expressed only in highly differentiated neuroblastomas. although c-src expression in neuroendocrine tumors probably reflects and is the result of the differentiation stage at which the tumors have been arrested, high c-src expression and kinase activities in non-neuroectodermal tumors, e.g., colon carcinoma, breast carcinoma, might instead be a part of the malignant phenotype and contribute to the development of these tumors.
quantitation of g0 and g1 phase cells in primary carcinomas. antibody to m1 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase shows g1 phase restriction point block. human cancers have an apparent low growth fraction, the bulk of cells presumed to being out of cycle in a g0 quiescent state due to the inability in the past to distinguish g0 from g1 cells. the allosteric m1 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase (m1-rr) is constitutively expressed by cycling cells (i.e., g1, s, g2-m). it is acquired during transition from g0 to g1, lost during exit to g0 and thus distinguishes g0 from g1 cells. to estimate the proportion of g0 and g1 cells in primary human breast (n = 5) and colorectal (n = 12) adenocarcinomas, we used both analytical dna flow cytometry (adfc) and immunoperoxidase staining of sections with the monoclonal antibody to m1-rr (mab m1-rr). adfc of fresh tumors revealed a low percentage of cells in the s phase (4.0 +/- 3.4%) but immunoperoxidase staining for m1-rr revealed an unexpectedly high proportion of positive cells (52.4 +/- 12.7%) in the g1, s, g2-m phases indicating a high g1 content of primary human tumors. thus, human cancers are blocked in transition in g1 and are not predominantly in a g0 or quiescent differentiated state. this block was interpreted to mean that human cancers are responding to putative regulatory events at a restriction point in the g1 phase, such as relative growth factor deficiency, density inhibition, antiproliferative cytokines, or gene products. using flow cytometry for both dna and m1-rr content we found that human colon cancer cell lines arrest in the g1 but not g0 phase upon serum deprivation or density inhibition. similarly, human breast cancer cell lines are arrested in g1 but not g0 phase by medroxyprogesterone acetate (mpa) or tamoxifen exposure. these findings match our in situ observations, and support the concept of a restriction point block in primary human tumors.
myocardial perfusion-contraction matching. implications for coronary heart disease and hibernation. experimental studies demonstrate that short-term regional perfusion-contraction matching, in which the energy demands of regional myocardial contraction are reduced to match the diminished myocardial substrate supply, occurs during states of low coronary blood flow under resting conditions and during exercise-induced ischemia. this phenomenon is rapidly reversible and appears to occur in several clinical settings. sustained perfusion-contraction matching is observed in states of partial experimental ischemia of intermediate duration lasting several hours. this condition might be called short-term hibernation and resembles clinical conditions such as unstable angina pectoris or myocardial infarction with some residual perfusion in which the contractile defect can be improved by reperfusion provided the ischemia is not severe enough to cause transmural necrosis. such experimental and clinical observations may or may not relate to the setting of regional dysfunction at rest in patients with chronic coronary heart disease, in whom manifestations of acute ischemia may be absent but improvement of wall motion abnormalities occurs after cabg or balloon angioplasty. this condition may constitute the hypothetical state of chronic myocardial hibernation, for which tentative evidence exists from metabolic and perfusion studies using pet. whether such a condition of prolonged perfusion-contraction matching might be associated with adaptive processes that could allow its persistence for long periods without manifest ischemia remains to be investigated.
mechanical lithotripsy of common duct stones. over the past 8 years we have utilized various types of mechanical lithotriptors to crush common bile duct stones. the procedure was performed in 93 patients with an overall success rate of 94%. however, because many accessories were in a developmental stage, entrapment of stones was not always possible on the first attempt, and the procedure was repeated in some patients a second or third time. during the interim, while awaiting another attempt at lithotripsy, cholangitis was prevented by leaving a prosthesis in place. a variety of lithotriptor models from different manufacturers have proven effective. we recommend that endoscopists use these devices to rid the bile duct of retained stones.
accelerated non-muscle contraction after subarachnoid hemorrhage: cerebrospinal fluid testing in a culture model. the cause of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage has been studied intensively, but it is still controversial whether the observable luminal narrowing should be attributed to the contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells or whether it results from some organic change in the wall. a proliferation of myointimal cells, accompanied by increased deposition of collagen, as well as myonecrosis, have been frequently observed several days after aneurysm rupture. studies from our laboratory showed that these myointimal cells had characteristics identical to myofibroblasts. in this study, we quantitatively and morphologically examined the effect of cerebrospinal fluid on the ability of myofibroblasts to alter collagen matrices using an in vitro model. myofibroblasts contract the collagen matrix by rearranging or compacting the framework of collagen fibers. cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with recently ruptured aneurysms significantly accelerated lattice contraction, especially when the patient developed symptomatic vasospasm. this study suggests that myofibroblasts in the spastic artery can produce a contractile force that contributes to chronic vasospasm, tightening the proliferated collagen. some unknown agent present in bloody cerebrospinal fluid accelerates the rearrangement of the collagen lattice by myofibroblasts, both of which have, until now, been considered non-contractile components.
long-term survival after chest-wall reconstruction with musculocutaneous flaps. reconstruction of chest-wall defects with musculocutaneous flaps permits resection of advanced chest-wall tumors and of tissues severely damaged by radiotherapy in patients who in a previous era were not surgically treatable. to determine the long-term outcome from this surgery, the records of 96 patients who had undergone chest-wall resection with musculocutaneous flap reconstruction were reviewed. median survival for the entire group was 20.5 months, but a more accurate prediction of outcome could be obtained by dividing the patients into three groups. in group i, patients free of known malignancy and undergoing resection of radionecrotic tissues, median survival was 60.0 months. in group ii, patients with resectable disease and free of tumor following surgery, median survival was 31.1 months. in group iii, patients incompletely resected or known to have metastatic disease following surgery, median survival was only 12.5 months. even in group iii, however, some individuals achieved prolonged survival and lasting benefits from the surgery, so these data should not be used to exclude patients from undergoing necessary palliative procedures.
ablation of the atrioventricular junction with radiofrequency energy using a new electrode catheter. percutaneous catheter ablation using radiofrequency energy can be used to interrupt atrioventricular (av) conduction in patients with supraventricular tachycardia refractory to drugs. results of radiofrequency ablation of the av junction using a custom-designed catheter with a large, 3-mm-long distal electrode, 2-mm interelectrode spacing, and a shaft with increased torsional rigidity were compared with those using a standard quadripolar electrode catheter (bard ep). an electrocoagulator (microvasive bicap 4005) supplied unmodulated radiofrequency current at 550 khz, which was applied between the distal electrode of the ablation catheter and a large skin electrode. with use of the modified catheter, 12 of 13 patients (92%) had persistent complete av block induced with 7 +/- 5 applications of 18 +/- 6 w of radiofrequency power. in contrast, complete av block was produced in only 9 of 18 (50%) historical control patients treated with the standard catheter, despite a similar number of applications (7 +/- 5) and power output (16 +/- 4 w). a rise in impedance, due to desiccation of tissue and coagulum formation, occurred earlier (28 +/- 18 vs 52 +/- 24 seconds, p less than 0.001) and more frequently (54 vs 40% of applications, p = 0.047) in patients treated with the standard catheter than in patients treated with the modified catheter. the use of a catheter designed to increase the surface area of electrode-tissue contact allows more radiofrequency energy to be delivered before a rise in impedance occurs and appears to increase the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation of the av junction.
peritoneal blastomycosis. blastomycosis is a systemic fungal infection caused by blastomyces dermatitidis. involvement of the peritoneum is unusual, with only two previously reported cases that occurred in association with disseminated disease. a single case of histopathologically proven blastomycosis involving the peritoneum is presented, as well as a short overview of previously published cases on gastrointestinal and peritoneal blastomycosis. the case is unique in that chronic peritonitis was the only manifestation of disease. the diagnosis was made by laparoscopy.
experimental study of starch-induced intraperitoneal adhesions the effects of starch on the development of postoperative adhesions were examined in 144 sprague dawley rats. groups of rats were injected intraperitoneally with suspensions of washings from starched gloves, starch-free gloves and starch-poor washed gloves, and after operative manipulation of the bowel. the incidence of adhesions was greatest (78 per cent) after laparotomy and injections of starch-rich washings and least when starch-poor (33 per cent) or starch-free glove suspensions (37 per cent) were used, confirming an advantage for washing gloves or switching to starch-free products.
intrahepatic cholestasis due to hypersensitivity reaction to procainamide. hypersensitivity reactions to procainamide involving liver dysfunction are rare. we describe a patient who developed liver dysfunction after procainamide administration, manifested by fever, jaundice, elevated bilirubin concentration, and alkaline phosphatase concentration. hepatobiliary scintigraphy demonstrated good hepatic uptake of the radionuclide without movement from hepatic parenchyma. to our knowledge, this is the first reported case of procainamide-induced intrahepatic cholestasis as demonstrated by radionuclide hepatobiliary scintigraphy.
adult phosphorylase b kinase deficiency. phosphorylase b kinase deficiency affecting muscle has been observed infrequently in children with weakness and hepatomegaly, and in 2 adults with cramps on exertion. we observed 2 additional adults with phosphorylase b kinase deficiency: patient 1, aged 58, had progressive, predominantly distal weakness since age 46 but no cramps on exertion; patient 2, aged 26, had cramps on exertion since age 6 but no weakness. lactate production on ischemic exercise was impaired only in patient 1. the serum creatine kinase level was elevated in both. muscle specimens showed focal glycogen excess in both, and a necrotizing myopathy and mild denervation atrophy in patient 1. muscle phosphorylase b kinase activity was 0.5% and 8.9% of the lowest control value in patients 1 and 2, respectively; erythrocyte phosphorylase b kinase activity was normal in both; liver phosphorylase b kinase activity, measured in patient 1, was also normal. other glycolytic enzymes in muscle were preserved in both.
bilateral breast cancer. a second primary breast cancer in the opposite breast can be either synchronous or metachronous. the majority are metachronous. a woman who has had breast cancer has a fivefold increase in risk for a second breast cancer. additional risk factors include multifocal cancer, lobular carcinoma in situ, and an original cancer at an early age with long survival. lobular carcinoma in situ is predominantly a marker for the subsequent development of a second primary breast cancer. the incidence of synchronous bilateral cancer is approximately 1% to 2% and that of metachronous cancer 5% to 6%. the cancer can be invasive or noninvasive. mammography has increased the number of synchronous cancers found but not the overall incidence. the incidence of invasive cancer detected by random biopsy of the opposite breast is not high enough to justify routine adoption of this procedure. the remaining breast must be followed for the remainder of the patient's life by physical examination and annual mammography. the treatment of the secondary primary breast cancer should be that appropriate for the stage of the disease. the prognosis for the woman with a second primary breast cancer is quite favorable and is dependent on the stage of both the first and the second cancer.
morphological changes in unmyelinated nerve fibres in the sural nerve with age. quantitative changes in unmyelinated nerve fibres in sural nerves obtained at autopsy were evaluated in 28 normal adults. the following conclusions were reached. (1) the density of unmyelinated axons showed no significant correlation with age, but the densities of (2) schwann cell subunits with axons, (3) schwann cell subunits without axons, (4) single protrusions of schwann cells and (5) collagen pockets, and (6) the mean number of schwann cell profiles per axon, all showed positive correlations with age. additionally, (7) the percentage of subunits containing unmyelinated axons and (8) the mean number of axons in single axon-containing schwann cell subunits demonstrated negative correlations with age. the density of schwann cell nuclei related to unmyelinated fibres did not show a significant change with age. the age-dependent changes in unmyelinated nerve fibres thus mainly consist of an increased production of processes by schwann cells in the absence of cell multiplication. a decrease in unmyelinated nerve fibre density or a compensatory increase of small unmyelinated axons did not occur in these normal adults. in terms of relative sensitivity for the detection of the earliest changes in unmyelinated fibres, the indices (6) and (7) are considered to be useful and superior to the conventional assessment of unmyelinated axon density and diameter distribution. these two indices are not influenced by postmortem swelling of the axons and schwann cells. measurements of unmyelinated axon density and size distribution will continue to be useful in the assessment of more advanced pathological conditions.
tinnitus severity measured by a subjective scale, audiometry and clinical judgement. tinnitus is discussed, with particular reference to the problem of assessing severity. the authors argue that tinnitus severity can only usefully be determined by measuring the impact of tinnitus on an individual, and therefore propose a scale to estimate severity in these terms. data presented on 112 members of a tinnitus self-help group, demonstrated the reliability of a subjective tinnitus severity scale (s.t.s.s.), with a coefficient alpha of 0.84. this indicates a high degree of internal consistency, i.e.: statistically this scale is measuring aspects of a single dimension. the validity was established in a separate sample of 30 clinic attenders, where mean s.t.s.s. scores were found to correlate highly with two independent clinical ratings of severity (r2 = 0.76, p less than 0.001, and r2 = 0.73, p less than 0.001). additionally, in these patients s.t.s.s. scores were significantly associated with several audiometric variables, although the correlations were of low magnitude.
surgical complications of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. surgical experience with 260 consecutive patients with chronic renal failure receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) at one medical center from 1980 to 1989 is reviewed. patients received capd for a mean of 24.2 months (range: 3 days to 91 months). catheter longevity consistently improved in all but 1 year from 1984 to 1989, as did exit-site and tunnel infections. of 311 catheters inserted, 151 (49%) required removal, of which 111 (74%) were attributed to peritonitis. cumulative patient survival was 80%, 60%, and 53% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. diabetic patients had statistically significant lower survival rates. additional complications including catheter leakage, catheter malposition, catheter obstruction, and abdominal wall hernias were negligible. although capd is not free from serious complications, our data show remarkable improvement since 1980 in catheter longevity, hospital stay, and infection rates.
a double-blind study of deflazacort and prednisone in patients with chronic inflammatory disorders. deflazacort and prednisone were given to 26 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, or other chronic inflammatory diseases, in a double-blind study. deflazacort rapidly and effectively suppressed disease activity in a manner supporting its assumed therapeutic potency of 83% that of prednisone. prednisone induced a rapid increase in the level of daily calcium excretion that was not evident with deflazacort. cortisol secretion was acutely inhibited by prednisone, but not by deflazacort. neither corticosteroid had a significant effect on glucose metabolism, at the doses studied. treatment with deflazacort may be an effective alternative to prednisone treatment, with fewer adverse effects on levels of calcium and cortisol, in patients with severe inflammatory conditions warranting the use of glucocorticoids.
restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis. to analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) or temporal arteritis (ta) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed. the mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with pmr 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months. in patients with ta the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months, and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months. patients with coexisting ta and pmr demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either ta or pmr and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years. no visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated. our study indicates that most patients with pmr or ta can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily. with few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months.
the presence of human papillomavirus (hpv) in solitary adult laryngeal papillomas demonstrated by in-situ dna hybridization with sulphonated probes. human papilloma virus (hpv) types 6 and 11 have been repeatedly demonstrated in multiple laryngeal papillomas, and there is little doubt that these lesions are caused by hpv. it has been clearly demonstrated in recent reports that the clinical course of solitary adult onset laryngeal papillomas is entirely different from that of multiple papillomas of juvenile as well as of adult onset. we here report the presence of hpv types 6 and 11 in 19 out of 20 solitary papillomas from 16 patients, while hpv types 16 and 18 were totally absent. we conclude that the milder clinical course in such patients is most likely to be due to host factors, rather than to viral factors.
a clinical pilot study combining surgery with intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy to prevent the local recurrence of rectal cancer. intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy (iophc) with mitomycin c (mmc) was prescribed for 14 patients with resectable advanced rectal cancer in an attempt to prevent a postoperative local recurrence. immediately after rectal amputation and extended lymphadenectomy, iophc was performed using physiologic saline containing 40 micrograms/ml of mmc at 45.5 +/- 0.6 c for 90 minutes, with an apparatus devised for iophc. at the end of iophc, the esophageal temperature was 37.2 +/- 0.8 c and cooling was not required. antitumor efficacy and complications in the iophc group were compared with findings in 12 rectal cancer patients who underwent surgery only within the same period of time. operation time was not prolonged with iophc treatment. in cytologic examinations of the pelvic lavage just before iophc treatment, viable cancer cells were detected in 6 of the 14 patients but were never detected in the postoperative exudate drained from the pelvic cavity. of the 12 patients in the control group, 2 had a local recurrence, while in the iophc group there was no local recurrence for 16.9 +/- 9.7 months at this writing. postoperative complications did not differ between the groups. this iophc treatment is a favorable method in eradicating cancer cells for postoperative local recurrence of rectal cancer.
hyperthermia alone in the treatment of recurrences of malignant tumors. experience with 60 lesions. localized hyperthermia alone has been used for the treatment of cancer recurrences in which previous conventional therapies have failed. since 1983 and 1988, 57 patients with 60 lesions have been heated by means of a microwave and radiofrequency system. treatment protocol provided 45 minutes of heating at the intratumor temperature of at least 42 degrees c, twice a week, for a total number of six, eight, or ten heating sessions. invasive intratumor thermometry was performed for all lesions. complete response (cr) was obtained in ten cases (16.6%) and partial response (pr) in 14 (23.4%). higher rates of cr were observed in the chest wall (38.5%) compared with the head and neck area (11.4%), trunk (10%), and limbs (none). adenocarcinoma was the most responsive histologic type (40%). squamous cells carcinoma had 7.7% cr. the only case of undifferentiated carcinoma showed cr; there were none on five sarcomas. long-term local control (24 months) was approximately 7%. the multivariate analysis showed the statistical significance of the histologic variety (adenocarcinoma versus others, p less than 0.0001). side effects and complications of the treatment were minimal.
prognostic value of reduced heart rate variability after myocardial infarction: clinical evaluation of a new analysis method. the relation between heart rate variability, measured from standard 24 hour electrocardiogram recordings in patients convalescent after a myocardial infarction, and the occurrence of sudden death and spontaneous, symptomatic, sustained ventricular tachycardia were assessed in a consecutive series of 177 patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction and surviving to 7 days. in addition to the analysis of heart rate variability, the occurrence of non-sustained arrhythmias on 24 hour electrocardiographic monitoring, and the results of clinical assessment, signal averaged electrocardiography and ejection fraction were analysed and were related to outcome. during a median of 16 months of follow up (range 10-30 months) there were 17 end point events (11 (6.2%) sudden deaths) and six (3.4%) episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia. an index of the width of the frequency distribution curve for the duration of individual rr intervals was used to measure heart rate variability. this mean (sd) index was significantly smaller in those with end point events (16.8 (8.0)) than in those without events (29.0 (11.2)). the relative risk of the occurrence of an end point event in those with a heart rate variability index less than 25 was 7.0. multivariate analysis showed that of all the variables examined a reduced heart rate variability index was the single most powerful predictor of end point events. measurement of heart rate variability by this simple, automated, operator-independent method provided useful information on the arrhythmic propensity in patients convalescent after myocardial infarction.
radiosurgery of acoustic neurinomas. eighty-five patients with acoustic neurinomas underwent stereotactic radiosurgery with the gamma unit at the university of pittsburgh (pittsburgh, pa) during its first 30 months of operation. neuroimaging studies performed in 40 patients with more than 1 year follow-up showed that tumors were smaller in 22 (55%), unchanged in 17 (43%), and larger in one (2%). the 2-year actuarial rates for preservation of useful hearing and any hearing were 46% and 62%, respectively. previously undetected neuropathies of the trigeminal (n = 12) and facial nerves (n = 14) occurred 1 week to 1 year after radiosurgery (median, 7 and 6 months, respectively), and improved at median intervals of 13 and 8 months, respectively, after onset. hearing loss was significantly associated with increasing average tumor diameter (p = 0.04). no deterioration of any cranial nerve function has yet developed in seven patients with average tumor diameters less than 10 mm. radiosurgery is an important treatment alternative for selected acoustic neurinoma patients.
enteroliths causing intermittent obstruction in a patient with crohn's disease. calcified enteroliths as a cause of intermittent small bowel obstruction is an uncommon clinical entity. the pathophysiological mechanism involves stasis of intestinal contents and has been associated with meckel's diverticulum, tuberculosis, and regional enteritis. this case describes prophylactic operative intervention in a symptomatic patient with enteroliths as a result of crohn's disease.
emboli in infective endocarditis: the prognostic value of echocardiography. objective: to determine whether vegetations visualized on two-dimensional echocardiography are an independent risk factor for the development of subsequent emboli in patients with infective endocarditis and to assess the timing of emboli relative to the initiation of antimicrobial therapy. design: investigator-blinded, retrospective incidence cohort study. setting: tertiary referral center. patients: patients with left-sided native valve infective endocarditis who had two-dimensional echocardiography within 72 hours of beginning antimicrobial therapy. measurements and main results: the crude incidence rate of first embolic events in patients receiving antimicrobial therapy was 6.2 per 1000 patient-days (95% ci, 4.2 to 9.2). the rates in patients with and without vegetations were 7.1 and 4.9 per 1000 patient-days, respectively (incidence rate ratio, 1.4; 95% ci, 0.6 to 3.3). the relation between vegetations and risk for emboli was microorganism-dependent: stratified incidence rate ratios were 6.9 (95% ci, 1.1 to 42.5; p less than 0.05) and 1.0 (95% ci, 0.2 to 3.9) for viridans streptococcal and staphylococcus aureus endocarditis, respectively. the rate of first embolic events diminished over time (p less than 0.001), falling from 13 per 1000 patient-days during the first week of therapy to less than 1.2 per 1000 patient-days after completion of the second week of therapy. conclusions: overall, the presence of vegetations on echocardiography was not associated with a significantly higher risk for embolus in patients with left-sided native valve infective endocarditis. the relative risk for embolic events associated with echocardiographically visualized vegetations may be microorganism-dependent, with a significantly increased risk seen only in patients with viridans streptococcal infection. the rate of embolic events declines with time after initiation of antimicrobial treatment.
regurgitation of fat and marrow emboli into coronary veins during resuscitation. three groups of patients were examined at autopsy for the presence of fat and marrow emboli in the lungs, heart, and other organs. group 1 was composed of patients with massive pulmonary thromboembolism and attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation; group 2, patients with pulmonary thromboembolism and without attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation; and group 3, patients without pulmonary thromboembolism and with attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation. the results confirm that pulmonary fat and marrow emboli are frequent in those patients who are resuscitated. a novel observation is the finding of multiple coexistent cardiac venous emboli in those resuscitated patients who have pulmonary artery obstruction with pulmonary thromboemboli. these findings suggest that these emboli regurgitate from the right side of the heart to the coronary sinus and cardiac veins in cases of pulmonary artery hypertension.
late onset adrenal hyperplasia: mutation at codon 282 of the functional 21-hydroxylase gene is not ubiquitous. ten patients affected with 21-hydroxylase (21-oh) deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia were studied to determine the prevalence of a mutation at codon 281 of the functional 21-oh gene (cyp21b) that results in a valine to leucine amino acid shift. this mutation has been reported in eight unrelated late-onset adrenal hyperplasia patients of ashkenazi jewish descent possessing the human leukocyte antigen-b14,dr1 haplotype. normally, there are two 21-oh genes; a pseudogene (cyp21a) and a functional gene (cyp21b). the aberrant codon 281 sequence is normally present only in cyp21a. in all of our late-onset adrenal hyperplasia patients, hybridization of an oligonucleotide probe specific for this mutation was demonstrated to cyp21a but not to cyp21b. the mutation at codon 281 of cyp21b does not appear to be a ubiquitous genetic marker for 21-oh deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia, suggesting that this disorder may demonstrate the same molecular heterogeneity as congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
hemifacial spasm caused by a spontaneous dissecting aneurysm of the vertebral artery. case report. the authors describe the first reported case of dissecting aneurysm presenting with hemifacial spasm. the patient was a 58-year-old woman with left hemifacial spasm of 2 years' duration. cranial nerve examination was otherwise normal and no other clinical symptoms were observed. vertebral angiography revealed a fusiform enlargement of the left vertebral artery and contrast medium remaining in the intramural false lumen in the venous phase. microvascular decompression of the facial nerve with wrapping of the aneurysm resulted in complete relief of the hemifacial spasm.
incorporation of 12-methoxydodecanoate into the human immunodeficiency virus 1 gag polyprotein precursor inhibits its proteolytic processing and virus production in a chronically infected human lymphoid cell line. covalent linkage of myristate (tetradecanoate; 14:0) to the nh2-terminal glycine residue of the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (hiv-1) 55-kda gag polyprotein precursor (pr55gag) is necessary for its proteolytic processing and viral assembly. we have shown recently that several analogs of myristate in which a methylene group is replaced by a single oxygen or sulfur atom are substrates for saccharomyces cerevisiae and mammalian myristoyl-coa:protein n-myristoyltransferase (ec 2.3.1.97; nmt) despite their reduced hydrophobicity. some inhibit hiv-1 replication in acutely infected cd4+h9 cells without accompanying cellular toxicity. to examine the mechanism of their antiviral effects, we performed labeling studies with two analogs, 12-methoxydodecanoate (13-oxamyristate; 13-oxamyr) and 5-octyloxypentanoate (6-oxamyristate; 6-oxamyr), the former being much more effective than the latter in blocking virus production. [3h]myristate and [3h]13-oxamyr were incorporated into pr55gag with comparable efficiency when it was coexpressed with s. cerevisiae nmt in escherichia coli. [3h]6-oxamyr was not incorporated, even though its substrate properties in vitro were similar to those of 13-oxamyr and myristate. [3h]13-oxamyr, but not [3h]6-oxamyr, was also efficiently incorporated into hiv-1 pr55gag and nef (negative factor) in chronically infected h9 cells. analog incorporation produced a redistribution of pr55gag from membrane to cytosolic fractions and markedly decreased its proteolytic processing by viral protease. 13-oxamyr and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (azt) act synergistically to reduce virus production in acutely infected h9 cells. unlike azt, the analog is able to inhibit virus production (up to 70%) in chronically infected h9 cells. moreover, the inhibitory effect lasts 6-8 days. these results suggest that (i) its mechanism of action is distinct from that of azt and involves a late step in virus assembly; (ii) the analog may allow reduction in the dose of azt required to affect viral replication; and (iii) combinations of analog and hiv-1 protease inhibitors may have synergistic effects on the processing of pr55gag.
cells derived from omental fat tissue and used for seeding vascular prostheses are not endothelial in origin. a study on the origin of epitheloid cells derived from omentum. the use of microvascular endothelial cells derived from omental tissue has been advocated to seed vascular grafts with autologous endothelial cells in high density. the purpose of our study was to evaluate the precise origin of these cells. therefore we have compared cellular characteristics of these cells with those of endothelial cells isolated by collagenase treatment of human umbilical veins. the omental cells were isolated from from omental tissue from four different patients by incubation in a collagenase-dispase solution. part of the material was processed by percoll density gradient centrifugation in an attempt to purify the isolates. cellular characteristics of both types of cells were determined by studying the morphologic features of the cells and by determining the presence of von willebrand factor, antigens en-4 and pal-e specific for endothelial cells, cytokeratins 8 and 18, vimentin and desmin, and uptake of dii-acetylated low-density lipoprotein. epitheloid cells from omental tissue, isolated after collagenase treatment and either purified or nonpurified by percoll density gradient centrifugation, differed from human umbilical vein endothelial cells with respect to the presence of surface microvilli, the expression of von willebrand factor, en-4 and pal-e, and the presence of cytokeratins 8 and 18 and desmin. von willebrand factor (in a granular staining pattern) and the presence of en-4 and pal-e were only detected in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. vimentin was present in both cell types, whereas cytokeratins 8 and 18 and desmin were only present in cells derived from omentum. from these data we conclude that the so called microvascular endothelial cells from omentum are not endothelial but mesothelial in nature.
doppler ultrasonography of malignant melanomas of the uvea. doppler shifts were detected using duplex and color doppler scanning in 41 of 42 patients with malignant melanomas of the uvea. mean maximum tumor systolic velocity was 18.8 +/- 7.6 cm/s. time-averaged maximum velocity in the tumor vessels was 12.3 +/- 5.3 cm/s. maximum tumor velocity increased in four of eight tumors and was unchanged or had diminished in the other four 2 to 3 days after ruthenium plaque irradiation. doppler shifts were undetectable in three tumors, markedly reduced in three tumors, and unchanged in one tumor 1 to 4 months after treatment. we detected minimal non-pulse-synchronized doppler shifts in one of three tumors, and no shifts in the remaining two tumors 1 1/2 to 4 years after therapy. color duplex scanning allowed a rapid overview of tumor vasculature and facilitated study of individual vessels.
ultrastructural study of norrie's disease. we studied the clinicopathologic and ultrastructural features of a full-term infant with norrie's disease. the infant had bilateral retrolental fibrous vascular masses and retinal detachment with no other apparent physical abnormalities and no family history of ocular defects. a vitrectomy and a membrane peeling were attempted, and specimens of the retina, the retrolental membrane, and a vascularized epiretinal peripheral mass were examined by light and electron microscopy. the retrolental membrane was composed of layered collagenous tissue and contained structures resembling blood vessels. inner and outer neuroblastic layers were identified in the retinal tissue, but no vessels were present. in the epiretinal mass, portions of retina and cortical vitreous were seen along with primitive vascular structures. the histologic appearance of these specimens suggests that the major pathologic event of norrie's disease occurs in the retina in the third to fourth gestational month. we believe the subsequent ocular abnormalities found in this patient were secondary to this early retinal malformation and did not represent a progressive ocular disorder.
use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in africa, hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly (hms), which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome, can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (cll). the observation that some patients with hms become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder. to test this hypothesis, 22 ghanaian patients with hms and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria, and dna was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a dna probe. clonal rearrangements of the jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response, in none of 13 patients with sustained response, and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy. the detection of such rearrangements, and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between hms and cll, supports the hypothesis that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder.
sustained reduction in valvular regurgitation and atrial volumes with tailored vasodilator therapy in advanced congestive heart failure secondary to dilated (ischemic or idiopathic) cardiomyopathy. afterload reduction therapy can acutely improve hemodynamic function in patients with advanced heart failure; however, it is unknown if initial reductions in mitral and tricuspid regurgitation and atrial volumes can be sustained with oral therapy. atrial volumes and atrioventricular valve regurgitation were measured using 2-dimensional and doppler echocardiography with color-flow imaging in 14 patients with dilated heart failure (ejection fraction 17 +/- 4%) before and after 3 +/- 1 days of intensive vasodilator and diuretic therapy tailored to hemodynamic goals. echocardiography was repeated again after 6 +/- 2 months on oral vasodilators and a flexible diuretic regimen. acute therapy reduced systemic vascular resistance from 1,760 +/- 460 to 1,010 +/- 310 dynes.s.cm-5, pulmonary artery wedge pressure from 30 +/- 5 to 17 +/- 4 mm hg, and right atrial pressure from 13 +/- 5 to 7 +/- 3 mm hg, and led to a 61% increase in stroke volume (from 36 +/- 10 to 58 +/- 14 ml) (p less than 0.01). mitral and tricuspid regurgitation, determined by color-flow fraction, initially decreased from 0.34 +/- 0.17 to 0.20 +/- 0.20 and from 0.33 +/- 0.15 to 0.13 +/- 0.13, respectively (p less than 0.001). this reduction was sustained at 6 months. significant decreases occurred with acute therapy, with further reductions at 6 months in both mean left atrial volume (from 100 +/- 25 to 80 +/- 19 to 65 +/- 15 cm3) and right atrial volume (from 85 +/- 23 to 64 +/- 23 to 52 +/- 14 cm3) (p less than 0.001).
ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm: the harborview experience. during the last decade (1980 to 1989) 186 patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm were admitted to a single urban hospital. ninety-six percent of these patients had a prehospital systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg. management included paramedic field resuscitation and transport, an emergency department diagnostic protocol completed in an average of 12 minutes, rapid transport to a dedicated emergency operating room, aneurysmorrhaphy by general surgery chief residents under the supervision of specialist vascular surgeons, and skilled postoperative intensive care unit care. nevertheless, 130 (70%) patients died in the first 30 postoperative days--3% in the emergency department, 13% in the operating room, 51% in the intensive care unit, and 3% on the ward or at home. certain features--age greater than 80 years, female gender, persistent preoperative hypotension despite aggressive crystalloid and blood replacement, admission hematocrit less than 25, transfusion requirements exceeding 15 units--were associated with a greater than 90% likelihood of death. no patient with preoperative cardiac arrest survived more than 24 hours. from this experience we conclude that, although "optimal" prehospital, emergency department, operating room, and postoperative care can improve the outcome of patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms in shock, most such patients will die. certain clinical features predict such excessive mortality rates after ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms that withholding operation may be reasonable. screening of patients at high risk for abdominal aortic aneurysm, followed by elective aneurysmorrhaphy, is clearly indicated.
fetal choroid plexus cysts: a prospective study and review of the literature. to determine the incidence and significance of fetal choroid plexus cysts, a prospective study was carried out at queen's medical centre, nottingham. the incidence of cysts was found to be 0.42% and the size of cysts varied from 3 to 13 mm with a mean diameter of 6.2 mm. choroid plexus cysts were associated with other fetal abnormalities in three cases, two of which were subsequently found to have a chromosomal abnormality, one trisomy 18 and one trisomy 21. a review of the reported cases of choroid plexus cysts reveals an overall incidence of 5.8% for trisomy 18. we therefore recommend that in patients with choroid plexus cysts a detailed scan should be carried out to look for the ultrasound markers of trisomy 18. if there is an associated abnormality or cysts are large (13 mm or greater in diameter) and bilateral then a karyotyping should be carried out.
cerebrospinal fluid as a reflector of central cholinergic and amino acid neurotransmitter activity in cerebellar ataxia. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) amino acid neurotransmitters, related compounds, and their precursors, choline levels, and acetylcholinesterase activity were measured in the csf of patients with cerebellar ataxia during a randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled clinical trial of physostigmine salicylate. the csf gamma-aminobutyric acid, methionine, and choline levels, adjusted for age, were significantly lower in patients with cerebellar ataxia compared with controls. physostigmine selectively reduced the level of csf isoleucine and elevated the levels of phosphoethanolamine. no change occurred in csf acetylcholinesterase activity and in the levels of plasma amino compounds in patients with cerebellar ataxia when compared with controls. median ataxia scores did not statistically differ between placebo and physostigmine nor did functional improvement occur in any of the patients.
hexamethonium and midazolam terminate dysrhythmias and hypertension caused by intracerebroventricular bupivacaine in rabbits. previous studies have demonstrated that bupivacaine administered directly into the central nervous system (cns) is capable of producing signs of bupivacaine cardiovascular toxicity. to investigate the mechanisms by which bupivacaine may act within the cns to produce cardiovascular toxicity, we studied four groups of halothane-anesthetized rabbits in which infusion of intracerebroventricular (icv) bupivacaine or intravenous (iv) phenylephrine resulted in dysrhythmias and hypertension. in group 1 (n = 5), icv bupivacaine (500 +/- 79 micrograms [mean +/- sem]) produced dysrhythmias lasting 73 +/- 13 min, whereas icv saline caused no dysrhythmias or hypertension. in group 2 (n = 9), icv bupivacaine-induced hypertension and dysrhythmias were abolished by icv midazolam in 4.4 +/- 0.6 min, and when dysrhythmias and hypertension recurred (22 +/- 0.9 min), hexamethonium (10 mg/kg iv) promptly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension (14 +/- 1 s). in group 3 (n = 10), icv bupivacaine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by increasing the inspired halothane concentration from 0.8 to 1.6%. in group 4 (n = 6), iv phenylephrine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by icv midazolam. these results suggest that icv bupivacaine produces dysrhythmias and hypertension by increasing autonomic nervous system (ans) outflow from the brain stem. the finding that peripheral autonomic blockade by hexamethonium rapidly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension supports this mechanism. we speculate that icv bupivacaine produces an increase in autonomic outflow by blockade of the inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) neurons that are known to be the principal tonic inhibitors of the ans.
primary adrenal insufficiency: a new cause of reversible gastric stasis. primary adrenal insufficiency is known to cause a wide spectrum of sometimes severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms; however, it has not previously been shown to be the cause of reversible gastric stasis. we have documented such a case in which the symptoms and physiologic abnormalities associated with gastric stasis were reversed by steroid replacement. a follow-up radionuclide gastric-emptying study after physiologic steroid replacement showed complete normalization of gastric emptying. although gastric stasis has long been suspected of being present with primary adrenal insufficiency, this represents the first case in which it has been documented, and so should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with chronic nausea and vomiting.
follow-up recatheterization after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry investigators. the results of recatheterization were assessed in a select group of 95 patients enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry to determine whether any procedural or patient-related variables at baseline predicted either initial immediate or follow-up (6.2 +/- 3.3 months) results. at the follow-up catheterization, 39 (41%) of the patients were in improved condition and 56 patients (59%) had recurrence of symptoms, allowing for analysis of the effect of the procedure in two symptomatic patient subsets. in the total group the aortic valve area increased initially from 0.56 +/- 0.16 to 0.87 +/- 0.27 cm2 but partial return to the baseline valve area was evident at follow-up (0.63 +/- 0.25 cm2). similarly, the mean aortic gradient initially decreased from 72 +/- 30 to 35 +/- 16 mm hg but then increased to 55 +/- 25 mm hg at follow-up. neither the initial nor the late hemodynamic results appeared affected by any definable procedural variable at the time of valvuloplasty, including the maximal diameter of balloons, number of balloons simultaneously used, mean inflation time or total number of inflations. such technical concerns also did not seem to affect short- or long-term outcome. similarly, no baseline hemodynamic variable clearly separated those who became increasingly symptomatic from those whose condition was improved at the 6 month interval. at recatheterization, a reduction in the aortic valve area toward baseline was observed in 24 (62%) of the 39 improved patients and in 45 (80%) of the 56 who were symptomatic.
dilated and contracted forms of primary endocardial fibroelastosis: a single fetal disease with two stages of development. left ventricular endocardial fibroelastosis was diagnosed by echocardiographic scanning in a fetus at 20 weeks' gestation. repeated prenatal examination over the next 20 weeks' gestation showed the development of the left ventricle from a chamber with a dilated cavity to a small cavity with a very thick wall. these findings were confirmed at necropsy and by the absence of other morphological anomalies. the contracted form of primary fibroelastosis in the fetus must have followed an insult that prevented any further increase in the size of the left ventricular cavity.
the influence of autologous lymphokine-activated killer cell infusions on the toxicity and antitumor effect of repetitive cycles of interleukin-2. twenty patients with refractory malignancies were treated with a protocol evaluating the addition of ex vivo-activated autologous lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells to a clinically tolerable interleukin-2 (il-2) regimen (four weekly cycles of human recombinant il-2 at 3 x 10(6) u/m2/day by continuous infusion for 4 days/week). sixteen patients completed their induction month of therapy, two had a partial response, six had stable disease, and eight had progressive disease. four patients had clinical toxicity preventing completion of the induction month of therapy, and one of these patients died during therapy. significant clinical toxicities included decreased performance status, weight gain, catheter-related thromboses, infectious complications, fever, hypotension, and dyspnea or hypoxemia requiring oxygen. thus, the addition of lak cell infusions to this il-2 regimen did not cause a noticeable change in antitumor response rate but did not cause more severe toxicity.
angioscopic coronary macromorphology in patients with acute coronary disorders. to investigate the pathogenesis of acute coronary disorders and to clarify what type of plaque precedes these disorders, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioscopy, by means of a new angioscope, was carried out during catheterisation in 100 consecutive patients anatomically suitable for such investigations. the quality of the angioscopic image was good enough for analysis in 84 patients (14 with acute myocardial infarction [within 8 h of onset], 16 with recent myocardial infarction [3 days-2 months since onset], 24 with old myocardial infarctions, 10 with unstable angina, and 20 with stable angina). thrombi were observed in most patients with acute coronary disorders (all 14 with acute myocardial infarction, 9 of 10 with unstable angina). occlusive thrombi were more common in patients with acute myocardial infarction than in those with unstable angina (11 [79%] vs 1 [10%]; p less than 0.001), whereas mural (non-occlusive) thrombi were more common in the unstable angina than in the acute myocardial infarction group (8 [80%] vs 3 [21%]; p less than 0.001). xanthomatous ulcerated plaques or ragged irregular surfaces were seen in patients with acute coronary disorders and in those with recent myocardial infarction. xanthomatous plaques were more common in patients with acute coronary disorders (50%) than in those with stable angina (15%) or old myocardial infarction (8%). by contrast white and smooth plaques were seen in cases of stable angina and old myocardial infarction. angioscopy could display the intracoronary lumen more precisely than could coronary arteriography. this angioscopic study suggested that, although a thrombus overlying a rupture in the lining of the plaque was common in both unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction, the character of the thrombus may differ between these disorders, and lipid-rich xanthomatous plaque may precede rupture.
comparison of pre- and postoperative conduction patterns in patients surgically cured of atrioventricular node reentrant tachycardia. patients with atrioventricular (av) node reentrant tachycardia characteristically have short and constant retrograde his-atrium conduction times (h2a2 intervals) during the introduction of ventricular extrastimuli. it has therefore been suggested that the tachycardia circuit involves retrograde conduction up an accessory pathway located in perinodal tissue. if the mechanism of surgical cure of av node reentrant tachycardia is interruption of this accessory pathway, postoperative changes in retrograde conduction would be expected. thirteen patients with drug-refractory av node reentrant tachycardia underwent surgery. preoperatively, h2a2 intervals were short and constant. during av node reentrant tachycardia, earliest atrial activation was seen near the his bundle and was 0 to 25 ms before ventricular activation in all patients except one. surgery consisted of dissection of right atrial septal and anterior inputs to the av node and central fibrous body. postoperatively, the h2a2 interval remained short and constant compared with preoperative values although it was slightly prolonged (74 +/- 18 versus 61 +/- 21 ms, p less than 0.005). twelve of the 13 patients are free of tachycardia after 28 +/- 13 months and no patient has had evidence of av node block. thus, surgical cure of av node reentrant tachycardia is highly successful; however, there is no reason to postulate an accessory pathway or use of perinodal tissue as part of the tachycardia circuit and the mechanism of surgical success remains obscure.
defective jejunal brush border membrane sodium/proton exchange in association with lethal familial protracted diarrhoea. the spectrum of clinical disease associated with specific defects in jejunal brush border membrane sodium/proton exchange is poorly defined and only two patients have been described so far. jejunal brush border membrane transport studies were performed in a boy who presented with lethal familial protracted diarrhoea in the first few days of life. using jejunal brush border membrane vesicles prepared from conventional jejunal biopsy specimens, initial sodium uptake under h+ gradient conditions was found to be only 6% of the mean control value. in contrast, sodium stimulated glucose uptake was normal. our data confirm the importance of a congenital defect in this exchanger as a cause of severe sodium-losing diarrhoea and extend the spectrum of disorders characterised by a specific defect in brush border membrane na+/h+ exchange to include some forms of lethal familial protracted diarrhoea.
on the inheritance of abdominal aortic aneurysm. to determine the mode of inheritance of abdominal aortic aneurysm, data on first-degree relatives of 91 probands were collected. results of segregation analysis performed on these data are reported. many models, including nongenetic and genetic models, were compared using likelihood methods. the nongenetic model was rejected; statistically significant evidence in favor of a genetic model was found. among the many genetic models compared, the most parsimonious genetic model was that susceptibility to abdominal aortic aneurysm is determined by a recessive gene at an autosomal diallelic major locus. a multifactorial component in addition to the major locus does not increase the likelihood of the data significantly.
experimental isobaric subarachnoid hemorrhage: regional mitochondrial function during the acute and late phase. patients treated for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage show, in the long-term follow up, an elevated rate of cognitive disturbances that are mainly related to the impact of the initial bleeding: the neurotoxic effects of blood deposition in subarachnoidal spaces may result in a diffuse encephalopathy, but the intrinsic mechanism and the biochemical correlates are not known. in the present study we have evaluated mitochondrial function after experimental induction of subarachnoid hemorrhage. mitochondrial function was evaluated in four different rat brain areas (frontal cortex, occipital cortex, hippocampus, and brain stem) after experimental isobaric subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats. subarachnoid hemorrhage was induced by injecting 0.07 ml of arterial autologous blood into the cisterna magna. intracranial pressure did not significantly increase. the nonsynaptic mitochondrial fraction was isolated from different rat brain areas, and the maximal rate of enzymatic reactions of some key enzymatic activities related to the krebs cycle [nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (oxidized form) (nad+)-isocitrate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, and succinate dehydrogenase] and of the electron transfer chain (cytochrome oxidase) were evaluated. the nonsynaptic mitochondrial fraction was utilized also to check parameters related to the mitochondrial respiration: state 3, state 4, uncoupled state, respiratory control ratio, and adenosine 5'-diphosphate/oxygen ratio. the biochemical parameters were measured at 1 and 72 hours after the subarachnoidal injection of blood. subarachnoid hemorrhage did not affect the mitochondrial enzymatic activities both at 1 and 72 hours, while the mitochondrial enzymatic activities parameters were significantly affected: in particular, a significant decrease of respiratory control ratio in all tested brain areas was demonstrated. the increased mitochondrial vulnerability in the delayed phases could be one of the biochemical correlates of post-hemorrhagic encephalopathy.
cerebral venous thrombosis due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. a patient with polycythemia vera who was treated with heparin for superficial septic thrombophlebitis developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and cerebral venous thrombosis with superior sagittal sinus occlusion 11 days after the institution of heparin therapy. we suggest that the severe thrombotic response to the heparin-induced platelet disorder in this patient occurred because the polycythemia vera and the purulent infection enhanced the thrombophilia caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. this condition can be avoided in most instances if heparin is used for no longer than 5 days.
critical review of gangliosides and thyrotropin-releasing hormone in peripheral neuromuscular diseases. the lack of effective therapy for many of the chronic neuromuscular diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, hereditary motor sensory neuropathy (charcot-marie-tooth disease), spinocerebellar degenerations and idiopathic polyneuropathy has led to a search for substances that may stimulate peripheral nerve regeneration. two such agents that have been proposed are gangliosides (mixed purified bovine brain gangliosides, cronassial) and thyrotropin releasing factor (trh). studies on both of these agents were initially reported with enthusiasm to be successful, but later double-blind controlled studies have failed to confirm these findings. this review provides critical analysis of the designs of studies of potentially effective agents in chronic neuromuscular diseases, and emphasizes the power of the placebo response, and the importance of designing placebos which are indistinguishable from the trial medication other than in the active effect.
cellular and molecular basis of the asbestos-related diseases. asbestosis is an inflammatory and fibrotic process of the alveolar structures mediated, at least in part, by cytokines released by "activated" alveolar macrophages. the process of phagocytosis and "activation" of alveolar macrophages is poorly understood. are all macrophages activated or only subpopulations? which cytokines are up-regulated? how does the local milieu modulate profibrotic and antifibrotic mediators? is protein release accompanied by up-regulation of gene transcription? is there an ordered sequence of cytokine activity? what roles do neutrophils and lymphocytes play? how can disease progression best be quantified absent further exposure? answers to these questions are important to direct rational strategies at interdicting the fibrotic process. the question of cancer and asbestos is more vexing. the processes of inflammation, fibrosis, and carcinogenesis appear to be closely intertwined. for example, proto-oncogenes such as c-sis (pdgf b-chain) are up-regulated in activated alveolar macrophages from fibrotic lungs; these and possibly others may play an important role in asbestos carcinogenesis. second, asbestos can transfect dna into cells. furthermore, dna can adhere to asbestos fibers, and these fibers are capable of direct transmigration into cells. the questions of the mechanisms of cigarette smoke cocarcinogenicity and latency remain. lastly, if the bronchial epithelium is highly metaplastic throughout from cigarette smoking, what triggers a single (or several) nidus of cells to transform into carcinoma? malignant mesothelioma poses the most challenging questions because of association with brief asbestos exposure by history. mesothelial cells are susceptible to minute environmental manipulations, and changes occur after exposure to all fiber types. yet epidemiologic studies point toward long amphiboles as having greater mesothelioma risk. to test this hypothesis, experimental data must be generated differentiating tumorigenesis risk from short, chrysotile fibers that can migrate to the parietal pleura from the associations of long amphiboles persisting in lung tissue. despite the future decreasing numbers of clinical cases of asbestos-related disease, solving the important mechanistic questions remaining will contribute significantly to our understanding of fibrosis and cancer.
clinical, radiographic, and pathological features of symptomatic rathke's cleft cysts. the clinical, radiographic, and pathological findings in 155 patients with symptomatic rathke's cleft cysts are discussed. eight patients were treated by the authors and 147 were collected in a review of the literature. this lesion occurred more often in female than male patients by a 2:1 margin, and the mean age at presentation was 38 years. the average patient had been symptomatic for nearly 3 years at the time of treatment, with the most common symptoms and signs being pituitary dysfunction, visual disturbances, and headaches. affected children generally were pituitary dwarfs. the sella was enlarged in 80% of cases, and the cyst was situated in both an intrasellar and a suprasellar location in 71%. computerized tomography revealed a low-density cystic mass with capsular enhancement in one-half of the cases. a variable appearance was seen with magnetic resonance imaging. partial excision and drainage of the cyst by the transsphenoidal approach is the recommended treatment, as the recurrence rate is low. most symptoms and signs improved or resolved following surgery with the exception of hypopituitarism and diabetes insipidus. the cyst lining was usually composed of ciliated cuboidal or columnar epithelium. theories as to the origin of rathke's cleft cysts are also discussed.
papillary endothelial hyperplasia in the thyroid following fine-needle aspiration. a 74-year-old woman was found to have exuberant papillary endothelial hyperplasia within her thyroid gland subsequent to multiple fine-needle aspiration biopsies of a hurthle cell neoplasm. to our knowledge, this histologic alteration in the thyroid has not been previously reported. we describe this unusual complication following fine-needle aspiration, and we delineate the clinicopathologic and differential diagnostic features.
disseminated human malignant melanoma in congenitally immune-deficient (bg/nu/xid) mice. congenitally immune-deficient bg/nu/xid (bnx) mice are severely compromised in their ability to mount t-cell, b-cell, and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell responses. successful engraftment of bnx mice with human hematopoietic stem cells has been demonstrated recently. we have investigated the potential use of bnx mice for studies relating to the biology and immunotherapy of human malignant melanoma. the intravenous injection of fresh single-cell suspensions of human malignant melanomas into mice resulted in widely disseminated disease. metastatic spread of human melanoma in bnx mice mimicked that observed in patients: eg, there were numerous tumor nodules identified in the subcutaneous tissues as well as in a variety of visceral organs, including spleen, kidneys, thyroid, adrenals, lungs, heart, and brain. bnx mouse lymph nodes were replaced consistently by human malignant melanoma cells. the presence of human tumor cells in these mice was confirmed by histologic analysis and microcytofluorometry analyses using human melanoma-specific monoclonal antibodies (mabs). moreover, human melanoma cells passaged in bnx mice remained lysable in vitro by specifically cytolytic, autologous human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (tils). the capacity of fresh human malignant melanoma to disseminate widely in bnx mice may prove valuable not only for study of the biology of metastatic spread but also for studies of the immunotherapy of human melanoma using melanoma-specific mabs and chemotherapeutic agents, as well as human tils and lak cells with or without retrovirus-mediated gene transfer modification.
evidence of hibernating myocardium by a new transesophageal echocardiographic technique. reversal of resting wall motion abnormalities after successful coronary angioplasty were documented in a patient with the use of a novel approach to stress testing. transesophageal stress echocardiography utilizes transesophageal atrial pacing to provoke myocardial ischemia while the left ventricular contractility is being monitored by means of transesophageal echocardiography. the potential use of this technique is illustrated in this report.
bleeding ectatic vascular lesion involving the sigmoid colon, endoscopically indistinguishable from angiodysplasia, in an 8-yr-old boy. an 8-yr-old japanese boy was hospitalized, complaining of active hematochezia. he was shown to have a cherry-red, blood-oozing area of vascular dilation with mucosal prominence in the sigmoid colon by endoscopy, but had no other mucocutaneous vascular abnormalities. a family history was noncontributory. under the clinical diagnosis of angiodysplasia of the sigmoid colon, he underwent an elliptical resection of the part, based on the intraoperative endoscopic findings. however, histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed a totally different picture from that seen in angiodysplasia: the thin-walled, markedly ectatic, nontortuous veins with hemorrhage were seen only just below the muscularis mucosae, around which the normal ones were shown to coexist. he has had no rebleeding for the past 3 yr. this lesion is considered to be an isolated congenital visceral telangiectasia involving veins.
pre-trigeminal neuralgia. eighteen patients who subsequently developed typical trigeminal neuralgia experienced a prodromal pain termed "pre-trigeminal neuralgia." these patients described their prodromal pain as a toothache or sinusitis-like pain lasting up to several hours, sometimes triggered by jaw movements or by drinking hot or cold liquids. typical trigeminal neuralgia developed a few days to 12 years later, and in all cases affected the same division of the trigeminal nerve. six additional patients experiencing what appeared to be pre-trigeminal neuralgia became pain-free when taking carbamazepine or baclofen. recognition of pretrigeminal neuralgia makes it possible to relieve the pain with appropriate medications and avoid unnecessary irreversible dental procedures.
ten years' experience with an elemental diet in the management of crohn's disease. the immediate and longterm outcome of treating patients with acute crohn's disease with an elemental diet was studied retrospectively. successful diet induced remission was achieved in 96 of 113 patients (85%) regardless of age, sex, site or severity of disease, or associated complications of strictures, fistula, or perianal disease. treatment was unsuccessful in 17 patients (15%), but there were no features at the outset of treatment that distinguished these patients from those who had successful remission. the longterm outcome of treatment was assessed over a five year period by analysis of life tables and survival curves. twenty two per cent of the patients relapsed within six months of treatment and thereafter the annual relapse rate was 8-10%. patients with disease complicated by fistula or perianal involvement had early relapse, approaching 100% for the latter. a further retrospective comparison of longterm outcome of diet v steroid induced remissions showed no significant difference in the relapse rates between the two groups at one, three, and five years.
ocular melanoma in families with dysplastic nevus syndrome. five families with the dysplastic nevus syndrome, in each of which one member had ocular melanoma, are reported. these five families were examined within a 3-year period in one medical center. to date only five other families with such a combination have been reported. we suggest a causal relation between ocular melanoma and the familial dysplastic nevus syndrome.
chromogranin a storage and secretion: sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. chromogranin a, co-stored and co-released with catecholamines from adrenal medullary and sympathetic neuronal vesicles, is elevated in the plasma of patients with pheochromocytoma. the usefulness of the hormone in the differential diagnosis of hypertension is examined. an elevated level of chromogranin a had comparable diagnostic sensitivity (83%, 24/29) to, but greater diagnostic specificity (96%, 86/90) than the level of plasma catecholamines when subjects with pheochromocytoma (n = 29) were evaluated in comparison to several reference groups, including normotensive controls (n = 49), subjects with essential hypertension (n = 28), subjects with renovascular hypertension (n = 5), and subjects with primary aldosteronism (n = 3). subjects with signs or symptoms suggesting pheochromocytoma, but in whom the diagnosis was ultimately ruled out (n = 5) had normal plasma levels of chromogranin a. a modest rise in chromogranin a in those with essential hypertension, and correlation of chromogranin a with diastolic blood pressure in normotensive patients and patients with essential hypertension did not impair the diagnostic usefulness of chromogranin a for pheochromocytoma. renal failure was associated with an elevated plasma chromogranin a independently of blood pressure. plasma chromogranin a correlated with tumor mass, tumor chromogranin a content, tumor norepinephrine content, and urinary vanillylmandelic acid excretion; it did not correlate with plasma or urinary catecholamines, nor with blood pressure in patients with pheochromocytoma. plasma chromogranin a levels did not differ in subjects with pheochromocytoma when stratified by age, sex, tumor location, or tumor pathology. several drugs used in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma (clonidine, metoprolol, phentolamine, and tyramine) had little effect on plasma chromogranin a concentration. within the pheochromocytoma, chromogranin a was localized along with catecholamines to the soluble core of chromaffin granules, where it accounted for 18 +/- 5% of vesicle soluble protein. we conclude that 1) chromogranin a emerges along with catecholamines from pheochromocytoma chromaffin granules; 2) plasma chromogranin a is a sensitive and specific diagnostic tool in evaluation of actual or suspected pheochromocytoma; 3) plasma chromogranin a predicts pheochromocytoma tumor size and overall catecholamine production; and 4) drugs commonly employed in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma have little effect on plasma chromogranin a level, preserving the usefulness of chromogranin a in evaluating pheochromocytoma. thus, measurement of chromogranin a provides a useful adjunct to the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
antigen-induced cross-linking of the ige receptor leads to an association with the detergent-insoluble membrane skeleton of rat basophilic leukemia (rbl-2h3) cells. cross-linking of the ige receptor on the surface of rat basophilic leukemia cells by multivalent ag (dnp-bsa) causes a rapid conversion to a detergent-insoluble form. there is a concurrent increase in the amount of filamentous actin associated with the plasma membrane. both the degree of receptor detergent insolubility and the rise in f-actin content are rapid with a half-maximal response of less than 1 min and can be rapidly reversed by the addition of monovalent ag (dnp-lysine). these two early steps in the triggering of rat basophilic leukemia cells can be dissociated from each other by pretreatment of the cells with either cytochalasin or sodium azide. these reagents block the increase in f-actin but have no effect on receptor detergent insolubility. this indicates that microfilaments are not responsible for detergent insolubility of the receptor and that it may be the membrane skeleton that is interacting with the complex. this was further confirmed by the finding that cross-linking of the ige receptors on the surface of purified plasma membranes also leads to detergent insolubility of the receptor. therefore, all of the components necessary for detergent insolubility of the receptor are present in the plasma membrane, and cytoplasmic components are not needed. these results suggest that detergent insolubility and immobility of the cross-linked receptors are caused by multivalent interaction with the membrane skeleton. actin filaments may then interact with these receptor-membrane skeletal complexes in order to produce large scale clustering and capping. the membrane skeleton may therefore be acting as an intermediate structure between the cell-surface receptors and microfilaments.
dimerization of mammalian progesterone receptors occurs in the absence of dna and is related to the release of the 90-kda heat shock protein. in this study we have demonstrated that dimerization of mammalian progesterone receptors (pr) occurs in the absence of dna. a specific immune coisolation assay was performed on extracts of t-47d human breast cancer cells with a monoclonal antibody specific for the full-length b form of progesterone receptor (pr-b). this resulted in coisolation of significant amounts of truncated form-a receptors (pr-a), indicating the presence of stable pr-a.pr-b dimers in solution. a positive correlation was observed between the ability of different receptor forms to oligomerize in solution and their ability to bind to specific dna sequences. the ability to form stable pr-a.pr-b oligomers in the absence of dna was also found to correlate with release of 90-kda heat shock protein (hsp90) from the unactivated pr complex. these results support the hypothesis that dimerization in the absence of dna is an important mechanism controlling receptor dna-binding function and that hsp90 release may be a key step regulating dimerization. this suggests that hsp90 may function to repress dna-binding activity indirectly by blocking receptor dimerization.
functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma: analysis of 25 cases. the facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas, either intentionally to ensure complete removal, or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification. in such cases we have, if possible, sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically, either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft. we analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987. the first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months, and there was continued improvement for several years. recovery was graded from 1 to 6. the anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves, in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored (grade 5 or higher). in 11 of the 25 cases, facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good (grade 2 or 3). a grade 1 result, with no perceivable facial dysfunction, was never achieved. typically, oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least. facial appearance was better at rest than with movement, which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis. closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary. when the facial nerve is severed, intraoperative suture is recommended, because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance.
essential hypertension: a sign in search of a disease. the concept of disease is of cardinal importance in medical practice. the current definition has developed over more than 200 years. it includes a distinctive natural history and identifiable cellular changes. pickering proposed a fundamental alteration to the definition when he suggested that essential hypertension is a quantitative disease without causative cellular change distinguishing normal from abnormal. the nature of essential hypertension has been confused from the beginning because of a category error. injury is conceptually distinguished from disease. essential hypertension, defined as elevated blood pressure together with its cardiovascular consequences, is found to be neither an injury nor a disease according to current definitions. instead, essential hypertension refers to a treatment group just as "the fevers" did in an earlier century. one effect on patients of the failure to resolve this diagnostic paradox is the burden of suffering from the label of "disease" rather than from a state that may be substantially due to their own behavior. a theoretical consequence of importance for psychiatric theory is that the disease status of functional disorders can no longer be defended by an appeal to the existence of a quantitative disease of blood pressure.
acute silicosis due to inhalation of a domestic product. a 20-yr-old woman with no history of pulmonary disease presented with acute dyspnea and fever. after various investigations and treatments the symptoms persisted and a lung biopsy was performed. pathologic analysis disclosed the presence of silicotic crystals within lung tissue and mediastinal lymph nodes. the patient admitted having repeatedly inhaled a domestic scouring powder rich in silica during the preceding 6 months. this is the first report of acute pulmonary silicosis developing after exposure to a common household product.
transurethral-resection zone prostate cancer detected at cystoprostatectomy. a detailed histologic analysis and clinical implications. the authors identified incidental adenocarcinoma of the prostate in serial cross-sections of prostates from 61 of 100 patients having cystoprostatectomy for bladder cancer. in 20 patients, cancer foci were in the prostatic region accessible to transurethral resection (tur). eight of these 20 patients had stage a1 disease (less than or equal to 3 foci); in six of these patients all foci were located at or within the transition-zone boundary only. twelve patients had stage a2 disease (greater than 3 foci); in none were more than three foci at or within the transition-zone boundary. among the 20 patients, 84 tumor foci were distributed as follows: 62% in the peripheral zone, 10% in the transition zone, 3% in the central zone, and 25% in the transition zone boundary. the authors' data suggest that stage a prostate cancer, like larger clinically detectable cancers, is multifocal, multizonal, and similarly distributed with respect to the urethra. no case of stage a1 disease would have been reclassified as stage a2 by repeat tur of the entire transition zone and transition zone boundary. the authors' results confirm those of previous studies that report a high incidence of residual carcinoma in regions not accessible to tur in patients with presumptive stage a1 disease and suggest that ultrasonography and ultrasonographically guided biopsies, rather than repeat tur, may more accurately define the extent of stage a disease in some patients.
fasciculations due to verapamil in a patient with neuropathy. a patient with pre-existing peripheral neuropathy developed generalized fasciculations under verapamil which ceased after discontinuation of the drug. it is suggested that the increase in acetylcholine (ach) release at the neuromuscular junction by verapamil may trigger fasciculation in the state of regeneration at ach-sensitive sites of axon terminals and immature axon sprouts.
persistent neutrophilic meningitis. persistent neutrophilic meningitis is an unusual but distinct clinical variant of chronic meningitis characterized by csf neutrophilia with hypoglycorrhachia which persists for more than 1 week on serial csf studies. documented etiologies include selected bacteria and higher bacteria such as brucella, nocardia and actinomyces as well as "opportunistic" fungi such as candida, aspergillus, the zygomycetes, and pseudallescheria. recognition of the syndrome is important, as empiric therapy (e.g., cotrimoxazole and amphotericin b) may differ significantly from that used for classic chronic meningitis.
microsurgical epididymovasostomy by tubule intussusception: a new technique in rat model. this experimental study on 15 adult male rats with bilateral epididymovasostomies evaluates a new technique of tubule intussusception as an improved form of end-to-end anastomosis. this paper describes in detail the steps in this technique and offers physiological, anatomical, and histological follow-up after 3 months. with this technique there is a 97% patency rate and a 23.3% incidence of macroscopic spermatic granuloma. complications are discussed in detail.
long-term efficacy of al3+ for prevention of bioprosthetic heart valve calcification. ai3+ preincubation has been shown in 21 and 60 day implants to inhibit calcification of glutaraldehyde preserved bovine pericardium (gpbp) in the rat subdermal model. this study was designed to assess the long-term anticalcification efficacy of gpbp ai3+ preincubation. rat (50-60 gm, male, cd sprague-dawley) subdermal implants of gpbp, pretreated with 0.01 m or 0.1 m aici3, were carried out for 21, 60, 90, and 120 days. each explanted gpbp was analyzed for ca2+ by atomic absorption spectroscopy and for ai3+ by atomic absorption spectroscopy or neutron activation irradiation. results showed profound long-term (implant duration 120 days) inhibition of calcification after gpbp preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 (ca2+ = 21.8 +/- 12.6 micrograms/mg), compared to control (ca2+ = 329.0 +/- 20.3 micrograms/mg). after preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 and 21 day rat subdermal implantation, gpbp ai3+ levels declined from 9033 +/- 680 micrograms/g (control = 6.3 +/- 3.7 micrograms/g) to 2700 +/- 156 micrograms/g; however, there was no further significant decline in gpbp ai3+ levels after long-term implantation of 120 days (2618.4 +/- 349 micrograms/g). the authors conclude that gpbp preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 markedly inhibited pathologic calcification to 7% of control values in the rat model after long-term (120 day) subdermal implantation.
peripheral vascular disorders. assessment and intervention. peripheral vascular diseases are being seen with increased frequency in the health care setting today. it is imperative that nurses have a clear understanding of arterial, venous, and lymphatic circulatory mechanisms as well as the pathophysiologic changes that accompany common diseases of these systems. providing the ongoing assessment to obtain a diagnosis, establish the acute versus chronic nature of findings, monitor progression, plan care, and assess the response to treatment is an important role for the nurse in order to preserve function, life, and limb in these patients.
phase i clinical trial with floxuridine and high-dose continuous infusion of leucovorin calcium. sixty-two patients with metastatic disease were treated with continuous infusion folinic acid (leucovorin calcium; lv) and 2-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (floxuridine; fudr). lv was given by constant intravenous (iv) infusion at 500 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 6, while fudr was given by iv push, days 2 to 6, at 3:00 pm daily with doses ranging from 294 to 1,214 mg/m2/d. this program was well tolerated with dose-limiting toxicities of diarrhea and stomatitis, while hematologic toxicity was minimal. eighty-two percent of the assessable patients (46 of 56) had failed at least one chemotherapy regimen. one complete remission lasting 9 months and 10 partial remissions ranging from 5 to 10 months were observed in this heavily pretreated patient population for an overall response rate of 20%. these data suggest that the combination therapy with lv and fudr may have clinical use. because of differing patient sensitivity to this drug combination, the recommended dose of fudr for the initial therapy cycle is 500 mg/m2/d, days 2 to 6, with subsequent escalation to 900 mg/m2/d in those patients without extreme sensitivity. phase ii studies are now in progress with these doses.
osteoma of the middle ear. report of a case. osteomas of the middle ear are rare. we report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence, combined with congenital cholesteatoma. the osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy. the long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared. the body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella. histopathologically, the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma. the possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested.
prospective, randomized comparison of ringed and nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypass grafts: a preliminary report. kinking and compression with knee flexion are thought to be one cause of failure of below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypass. to prevent this problem polytetrafluoroethylene grafts externally supported with rigid rings have been developed. the present randomized, prospective study compared ringed and nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in 122 patients who underwent femoropopliteal bypass for severe limb ischemia. patients were well matched for surgical indications and risk factors. there was no significant difference in the 3-year graft patency rate of ringed versus nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses (74% vs 68%, p = 0.5). similarly, no significant differences were found in the 3-year graft patency rates of ringed versus non-ringed above-knee (82% vs 74%, p = 0.5) or below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses (68% vs 59%, p = 0.5). the 3-year graft patency rate of all above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses was slightly greater than that of below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses (76% vs 62%), but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.25). the 3-year limb salvage rate with ringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts was 92% compared with 79% for nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts, but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.25). data to date from this study fail to support the recommendation that ringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts be used preferentially over conventional polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in patients who require femoropopliteal bypass with a synthetic graft.
emergency aortocoronary bypass after failed angioplasty. one thousand two hundred fourteen percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties were performed over a 38-month period. sixty patients required immediate emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after angioplasty failure; 7 of these had evidence of acute myocardial infarction before angioplasty and were excluded from the study. of the 53 patients remaining, 27 (51%) had electrocardiographic and enzyme evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction. two patients died (4%), and 10 had postoperative complications (19%). no statistical significance was noted comparing age, sex, incidence of prior myocardial infarction or myocardial dysfunction, time for revascularization, or average number of grafts completed in those with single-vessel (n = 21) versus multiple-vessel (n = 32) coronary artery disease. postoperatively, those with multiple-vessel disease required intraaortic balloon pump support (p = 0.06) and antiarrhythmic medications more frequently than single-vessel patients (p less than 0.01) and had a higher complication rate (p less than 0.05). although not reaching statistical significance, the data also suggest a higher death and postoperative myocardial infarction rate in patients with multiple-vessel disease. emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty carries a higher morbidity and mortality than elective coronary artery bypass grafting, particularly for patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease.
a downstream initiation element required for efficient tata box binding and in vitro function of tfiid. the gfa gene encodes glial fibrillary acidic protein, an intermediate filament protein expressed in glial cells. in vitro transcription analysis has shown that the human gfa promoter contains two initiation elements that can independently specify the transcription startpoint. one of the elements is a tata box 25 base pairs (bp) upstream from the transcription startpoint; the other is located between 10 and 50 bp downstream from the transcription initiation site. we have now shown by transfection that both elements are required for efficient transcription in cultured cells. a partially purified natural human tata box-binding factor (tfiid) from hela cells gave footprints that extended from upstream of the tata box through the downstream initiator. deletion of the downstream initiator inhibited both tfiid binding to the tata box and transcription in vitro. in contrast to natural human tfiid, clone human and yeast tfiids expressed in bacteria gave footprints covering only the tata box region, although hypersensitive sites were observed in the downstream region. the cloned tfiids also showed less dependence than natural human tfiid on the downstream initiator for both tata box binding and in vitro transcription. these results suggest that natural human tfiid contains an additional component(s) that contribute(s) to stable tfiid binding and effective transcription by interacting with the downstream initiator.
a dose-intensive regimen of 5-fluorouracil for the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma. 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) was delivered in a dose-intensive schedule to 23 patients with metastatic or unresectable colorectal carcinoma. the schedule consisted of bolus single-dose 5-fu therapy 400 to 500 mg followed by 4-day infusion of 5-fu, 600 to 800 mg/m2/day, followed by a 17-day to 24-day infusion of 200 to 250 mg/m2/day. partial remissions were seen in 22% of all eligible patients. significant toxicity, including mucositis, diarrhea, and hand-foot syndrome, necessitated dose reductions in most patients. the authors conclude that 5-fu given in this moderately intensive schedule is associated with a moderate level of response, as easily achieved with more conventional schedules or with 5-fu-leucovorin combinations. tumor responsiveness to dose intensive 5-fu regimens may be limited.
fibrocellular tissue response after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. an immunocytochemical analysis of the cellular composition. background. restenosis after initial, successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) is due to fibrocellular proliferation. methods and results. the present study focused on the nature of fibrocellular tissue in humans by use of immunocytochemical techniques. four hearts (five coronary arteries) were investigated; time lapse between ptca and death varied between 20 days (two arteries) and 1 year 7 months. proliferating cells stained positive with smooth muscle cell-specific monoclonal antibodies. cells from early proliferative lesions (20 days) have a phenotypic expression different from cells in "old" lesions. proliferating cells stained positive with vimentin but were negative with desmin, irrespective of the lesion's age. conclusions. the findings indicate a change in actin isoform expression of smooth muscle cells while adapting to a pathological state.
tumor factors predicting for prognosis in metastatic breast cancer. the presence of p24 predicts for response to treatment and duration of survival. fifty-one patients with metastatic breast cancer were investigated to determine tumor parameters with prognostic significance. investigations included determinations of p24 content by immunocytochemical means using a monoclonal antibody to p24 protein; immunocytochemical analysis of estrogen and progesterone receptors; ploidy analysis by flow cytometry, and histologic grading. there were significant correlations between the presence of p24 and estrogen receptor, between histologic grade and p24 expression, and between estrogen and progesterone receptors. of the tumor factors investigated only p24 protein was, however, of prognostic significance. patients with p24-positive tumors had a significantly higher rate of response to treatment as well as more prolonged duration of response and duration of survival from diagnosis of metastatic disease. none of the other variables investigated were significantly predictive of outcome. p24 protein may be a useful predictor of prognosis in metastatic breast cancer.
pheochromocytoma and acute myocardial infarction. when a pheochromocytoma is manifested as an acute myocardial illness, diagnosis may be difficult to make. if the tumor is suspected early enough, a workup can be done while the complications of the myocardial illness are being controlled (as in our case). the tumor can then be expeditiously removed before any further problems develop. the case presented here underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a pheochromocytoma in any patient who has an unexpected myocardial event.
mechanism of nonresponsiveness to akr/gross leukemia virus in akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice. an analysis of precursor cytotoxic t lymphocyte frequencies in young versus moderately aged mice. as young adult akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice reach about 9 wk of age, they begin to develop a nonresponsiveness to akr/gross leukemia virus. unlike young mice that are responders, moderately aged akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice, after immunization and secondary in vitro restimulation in bulk culture with akr/gross virus induced tumors, can not generate anti-akr/gross virus-specific ctl. the mechanism of conversion to nonresponsiveness in moderately aged akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice is not understood, but it is correlated with increased expression of endogenous ecotropic viral antigens. our present investigation focuses on determining the frequency of anti-akr/gross virus precursor ctl in akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice as a function of age. this was achieved by performing limiting dilution cultures of immune spleen cells obtained from young and moderately aged akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice. although spleen cells obtained from immune moderately aged mice can not differentiate in bulk cultures into anti-akr/gross virus-specific ctl, there was no evidence of substantially decreased frequencies of virus-specific precursor ctl, relative to precursor ctl frequencies observed in young responder akr.h-2b:fv-1b mice.
regulation of collagen production in freshly isolated cell populations from normal and cirrhotic rat liver: effect of lactate. previous work has shown that lactic acid, and to a lesser extent pyruvic acid, is able to increase collagen synthesis significantly in liver slices of ccl4-treated rats but not normal rats. the purpose of this report is to document which cells in the cirrhotic liver are responsible for the lactate-stimulated increase in collagen synthesis. it was found that (a) incorporation of 3h-proline into protein-bound 3h-hydroxyproline is increased threefold to fourfold in hepatocytes from ccl4-treated rats as compared with normal rat hepatocytes; (b) neither the hepatocytes from normal nor those from ccl4-treated rats modify their collagen synthesizing capacity when 30 mmol/l lactic acid was added to the incubation medium; (c) nonparenchymal cells obtained from livers of ccl4-treated rats synthesize much less collagen than hepatocytes, but their synthesis is stimulated twofold by lactic acid; (d) from the different nonparenchymal cells, only fat-storing (ito) cells increase collagen synthesis when lactic acid is present in the incubation medium. these results suggest that the increased lactic acid levels observed in patients with alcoholic hepatic cirrhosis may play an important role in the development of fibrosis by stimulating collagen production by fat-storing (ito) cells.
wilson's disease: 35 years' experience. thirty-seven chinese patients fulfilling the criteria for wilson's disease seen during a 35-year period were reviewed. males and females were equally affected. twenty-two patients were symptomatic and 15 asymptomatic; most of them presented before the third decade. thirty-one per cent of the relatives screened showed evidence of disease, and parents were rarely affected (13 per cent). half of the adult symptomatic females presented with primary amenorrhoea. liver laboratory tests were abnormal in only 50 per cent of patients, with gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase being the most sensitive index. renal disease was infrequent. serum caeruloplasmin level was the single biochemical parameter of prognostic significance (p = 0.0001). seventy per cent of the symptomatic patients showed an improvement after treatment with penicillamine.
events associated with rupture of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation devices. nineteen intra-aortic balloon (iab) ruptures occurred in sixteen patients during a three-year period. perforation occurred secondary to abrasion with material failure or mishandling of the device during insertion. to avoid serious sequelae, it is important to be aware of the possibility of iab rupture and to remove any defective device immediately upon recognition of an event.
a randomized clinical trial of scatter photocoagulation of proliferative sickle cell retinopathy. a randomized prospective clinical trial of argon laser scatter photocoagulation therapy for proliferative sickle cell retinopathy was performed on 116 patients (174 eyes) in kingston, jamaica. ninety-nine eyes were treated with scatter photocoagulation and 75 eyes served as controls. the average length of follow-up was 42 months for the control eyes and 47 months for the treated eyes. prolonged loss of visual acuity was statistically significantly reduced in the treated eyes. the incidence of vitreous hemorrhage was also significantly reduced in the treated eyes after controlling for the previously defined risk factors of vitreous hemorrhage and extent of proliferative sickle cell retinopathy at entry into the study. there were no complications associated with argon laser scatter photocoagulation. scatter photocoagulation of proliferative sickle cell retinopathy is currently the most effective and safe way to treat patients with sea fan neovascularization.
direct monitoring of capillary perfusion following normovolemic hemodilution in an experimental skin-flap model. the effects of normovolemic hemodilution on skin flap survival are studied in a recently developed skin-flap model (homozygous hairless mouse ear) in which nutritional capillary flow is monitored directly by means of intravital microscopy from the time of flap creation throughout the establishment of necrosis. two diluting agents (dextran 60 and hydroxyethyl starch 200) are utilized. our quantitative findings demonstrate that the amount of nonperfused tissue following flap creation in both the dextran (n = 23) and starch (n = 13) groups was significantly decreased as compared with controls (n = 19). our qualitative observations suggest that improved hemorrheologic properties at the microcirculatory level are responsible for the observed decreased necrosis. various mechanisms by which hemodilution may act to prevent necrosis are discussed.
postoperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. s.p.i. research group. cardiac morbidity and mortality after coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery continue to be significant problems. to determine the prevalence, characteristics, and prognostic importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia after cabg surgery, the authors monitored 50 patients continuously for 10 perioperative days with the use of two-lead electrocardiography (ecg). ecg changes consistent with ischemia were defined as a reversible st depression of 1 mm or greater or an elevation of 2 mm or greater from baseline, lasting at least 1 min. baseline was adjusted for positional changes and temporal drift. all episodes were verified, with the use of the ecg monitor printout (ecg complexes), by two independent blinded investigators. clinical care was not controlled by study protocol, and clinicians were unaware of the research data collected. twenty-six of 50 patients (52%) had 207 episodes of perioperative ischemia (3,409 ischemic minutes). postoperatively, ischemia developed in 48% of patients, compared with 12% preoperatively and 10% intraoperatively before bypass. postoperative ischemia was most common in the early period (postoperative days [pods] 0-2; 38% of patients), peaking during the first 2 h after revascularization, and less common during the late postoperative period (pods 3-7; 24% of patients). almost all (120 of 122; 98%) postoperative episodes (after tracheal extubation) were asymptomatic: only 9 of 70 (13%) early episodes were detected by clinical ecg monitoring. postoperative ischemia did not appear to be related to acute changes in myocardial oxygen demand: only 39% of the postoperative episodes were preceded by a greater than 20% increase in heart rate. however, tachycardia persisted throughout the postoperative week (22-33% of all heart rates greater than 100 beats per min), and patients with postoperative ischemia (pod 0) more frequently had tachycardia (median 43% vs. 12% of the time; p less than 0.01). five adverse cardiac outcomes occurred on the day of surgery; all five were preceded by postoperative ischemia, three by intraoperative ischemia before bypass, and none by preoperative ischemia. patients with late postoperative ischemia did not have an adverse cardiac outcome. the authors conclude the following: 1) ischemia is more prevalent postoperatively than preoperatively or intraoperatively before bypass; 2) the incidence of postoperative ischemia peaks shortly after revascularization, during which time it is symptomatically silent, difficult to detect, and related to adverse cardiac outcome; 3) late postoperative ischemia also is silent, but it is less prevalent and not associated with in-hospital adverse cardiac outcome; and 4) a relationship between ischemia and persistently elevated postoperative heart rate may exist and warrants additional investigation.
variations in sensitivity after sectioning the intercostobrachial nerve. the authors present a prospective study of the variations in sensitivity that appear in the armpit and arm after the intercostobrachial nerve has been sectioned in a modified radical mastectomy. of a total of 208 patients studied between 1978 and 1987, the intercostobrachial nerve was sectioned in 139 patients, whereas in 30 it remained intact; in 39 patients only peripheral branches of the nerve were sectioned. the patients were examined at regular postoperative intervals in order to evaluate their sensitivity both to touch and to pain in the axilla and arm. four hundred thirty-three examinations were carried out and the 3 operative groups were assessed accordingly. after the nerve was sectioned, there was increasing anesthesia in the armpit and hypoesthesia on the posterointernal face of the arm, while for the patients in whom the intercostobrachial nerve remained intact, these alterations were less intense and long-lasting. significant statistical differences between the two groups also exist. in the absence of axillary lymphatic ganglia infiltrated by the tumor, the conservation of the intercostobrachial nerve is recommended.
late deaths after treatment for childhood cancer. an investigation of 749 deaths occurring among 4082 patients surviving at least five years after the diagnosis of childhood cancer in britain before 1971 has been undertaken. of the 738 with sufficient information the numbers of deaths attributable to the following causes were: recurrent tumour, 550 (74%), a second primary tumour, 61 (8%), a medical condition related to treatment of the tumour, 49 (7%), an traumatic death unrelated to the tumour or its treatment, 34 (5%), finally, any other cause unrelated to the tumour or its treatment, 44 (6%). less than 10% of five year survivors of non-hodgkin lymphomas, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, wilms' tumour, or a soft tissue sarcoma died of recurrent tumour during the next 15 years, while more than 25% of five year survivors of hodgkin's disease, ependymoma, medulloblastoma, and ewing's tumour died of recurrent tumour during the corresponding period. almost 50% of five year survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia died of recurrent disease during the corresponding 15 years, a large proportion of deaths being due to central nervous system relapse in an era before central nervous system prophylaxis was routinely given. comparison of the mortality observed with that expected from mortality rates in the general population indicated three times the expected number of deaths from non-neoplastic causes. five times the expected number of deaths from cardiovascular causes were observed, these were predominantly myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents. there was no evidence of an excess in the number of suicides observed, but there were three times the expected number of deaths from accidents observed after central nervous system tumours.
acute reduction of mitral valve area after percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty: assessment with doppler continuity equation method. mitral valve areas before and after balloon mitral valvuloplasty were serially determined by the doppler continuity equation method in 16 patients. ultrasound examinations were performed before and immediately after balloon inflation and 24 hours, 1 week, and 1 month after valvuloplasty. mitral valve area determined by the doppler continuity equation method correlated well with that determined at catheterization by the gorlin formula, not only before but also immediately after balloon inflation (y = 0.87 x + 0.05, standard error of estimate = 0.22 cm2, r = 0.90). serial calculation of mitral valve area by the doppler continuity equation method showed a slight but significant decrease in the valve area at 24 hours after balloon mitral valvuloplasty but no change after that. we conclude that the doppler continuity equation method provides an accurate estimation of mitral valve area before and even after balloon valvuloplasty. mitral valve area dilated by balloon inflation is decreased slightly within 24 hours after the procedure, which corroborates valve stretch as one mechanism for increasing mitral valve area with balloon valvuloplasty. estimation of mitral valve area immediately after balloon mitral valvuloplasty may overestimate the long-term efficacy of the procedure.
laser placement in noncontact nd:yag cyclophotocoagulation. we treated 40 eyes of 40 patients by using noncontact transscleral nd:yag cyclophotocoagulation to determine whether treatment 1.5 or 3.0 mm posterior to the corneoscleral lumbus was preferable. patients were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups, and all other variables, including power, number, and distribution of laser applications, were kept constant. six months postoperatively, those treated 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus had a lower intraocular pressure (p = .0047) than those treated 3.0 mm from the corneoscleral limbus. the 1.5-mm group also required fewer retreatment (p = .017) and had a slightly lower occurrence of visual acuity loss after this procedure. we believe it may be advantageous to locate the laser application approximately 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus, rather than further posteriorly, when performing noncontact transscleral nd:yag cyclophotocoagulation.
deletion of alu sequences in the fifth c-sis intron in individuals with meningiomas. an abnormality in the c-sis protooncogene was identified in leukocyte dna from members of a family predisposed to the development of meningioma, and was found to be associated with the development of the tumor in those individuals. molecular analysis of this abnormality demonstrated a deletion within the fifth intron of the c-sis gene. the normal c-sis gene has an alu sequence in this region which includes two perfect 130 nucleotide repeated sequences separated by 5 bp. the deleted c-sis allele is missing precisely one copy of the 130 bp repeat and the intervening 5 bp. an identical deletion was also found in dna from 1 of 13 sporadic meningiomas.
new technique for the arterial switch operation in difficult situations. the technique described here, a modification of the aubert operation, avoids coronary reimplantation and also eliminates the need to use artificial material to transfer coronary circulation.
exacerbation of acute platelet thrombus formation in stenosed dog coronary arteries with smoke from a non-tobacco-burning cigarette. the tobacco industry proposes to release a "new" cigarette with a burning charcoal tip, which heats the tobacco as air is drawn through it and into the lungs of the smoker. it is claimed to be safer because the tobacco does not burn. using our established canine model of coronary artery stenosis with moderate intimal damage, we compared this new cigarette (0.4 mg nicotine) with a regular cigarette by ventilating dogs (n = 10) with room air and then either new or regular smoke (two cigarettes over about 10 minutes). in our dog model, periodic acute platelet thrombus formation followed by embolization produced cyclical flow reductions in coronary blood flow where the rate of flow decline was proportional to the degree of in vivo platelet-vessel wall interaction. the rate of flow decline increased from -4.81 +/- 1.29 ml/min2 to -9.60 +/- 2.29 ml/min2 after ventilation with the new-type smoke (p less than 0.01). similarly, the rate of flow decline increased from -5.43 +/- 1.28 ml/min2 to -9.28 +/- 2.31 ml/min2 after ventilation with regular cigarette smoke (p less than 0.01). despite the lack of a clear causal link between cigarette smoking and the acute manifestations of cardiovascular disease, the data presented here indicate that the new cigarette is just as potent as regular cigarettes at increasing in vivo platelet activity and exacerbating acute platelet thrombus formation in the dog. we conclude that the new proposed non-tobacco-burning cigarette has deleterious effects similar to those of conventional cigarettes, and thus does not eliminate smoking as a risk factor in cardiovascular disease in human beings.
severity of single-vessel coronary arterial stenosis and duration of angina as determinants of recruitable collateral vessels during balloon angioplasty occlusion. to determine the factors that influence the presence of collateral vessels during coronary occlusion, we performed standardized contrast injection of the contralateral coronary artery in 58 consecutive patients, without previous myocardial infarction, undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for 1-vessel disease (left anterior descending artery in 45, right coronary artery: in 10 and left circumflex artery in 3). the presence of collateral vessels during coronary occlusion, defined as partial or complete epicardial opacification by collateral vessels of the vessel dilated, was related to clinical, angiographic and electrocardiographic parameters. the angiographic appearance of collateral vessels during balloon inflation showed a weak, although statistically significant, correlation to the percent diameter stenosis before angioplasty (r = 0.28; p = 0.03) and the duration of angina (r = 0.37; p = 0.004). by combining lesion severity with the duration of angina, collateral vessels during coronary occlusion were particularly related to a lesion severity greater than or equal to 70% and duration of angina greater than or equal to 3 months (p less than 0.001). furthermore, the presence of collateral vessels was associated with an absence of st-segment shift (greater than or equal to 1 mm) during 1 minute of coronary occlusion (p less than 0.001).
carcinoid tumors. the authors carried out a retrospective study of 32 patients (23 m, 9 f) with carcinoid tumors who were diagnosed and treated at harlem hospital center, new york, from 1967 to 1988. all the patients were black and the commonest sites were the ileum (28.1%), rectosigmoid and rectum (21.9%), and the appendix and lung (15.6% each). metastasis correlated with site, size, and depth of the primary tumor and occurred in 12 patients (38%), most frequently to the regional lymph nodes and liver. carcinoid syndrome developed in 12.5% (3 f, 1 m). surgical resection for cure or palliation was the mainstay of treatment. overall 5 year survival rate was 66%, and for those with metastases was 0%. the poorer survival rates are probably related to the socioeconomic status of our patient population. the only observed racial difference compared to other series is the preponderance of males, and the disproportionately higher ratio of females with the carcinoid syndrome.
an eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an l-tryptophan containing product. a syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of l-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the centers for disease control. we report a case of this new clinical entity, highlighted by severe myositis, and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes.
etoposide in the management of non-small cell lung cancer. etoposide is a phase-specific, schedule-dependent derivative of podophyllotoxin that appears to act by inhibiting dna-topoisomerase ii. early preclinical work demonstrated sharp activity in mouse leukemias and possible synergy with cisplatin. as a single agent (either orally or intravenously), it demonstrated limited benefit in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), with response rates around 10%. in combination with cisplatin, it has become a mainstay of chemotherapeutic efforts, either as primary therapy or in conjunction with radiation. response rates in advanced disease average around 30%, climbing to more than 50% in patients with stage iiia or iiib disease. more recent work suggests that the issue of the true synergy of etoposide with cisplatin in nsclc needs reassessment. the relative roles of etoposide and cisplatin in the combination are unclear, as several studies conflict. pharmacokinetic data suggest that multiple daily fractions of etoposide are superior to prolonged infusions, warranting several future trials. the current major role for etoposide plus cisplatin would appear to be in multimodality therapy where the combination can be readily combined with radiation and/or surgery. several other agents have been studied with etoposide or etoposide plus cisplatin (mitomycin, vindesine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, and carboplatin), but it is unclear whether the addition of any of them offers any response or survival advantage.
treatment of phenobarbital poisoning with multiple dose activated charcoal in an infant. a 28-day-old infant developed lethargy, hypotonia, and hypothermia following a phenobarbital overdose secondary to a pharmacist's error. he was treated with multiple dose activated charcoal (mdac) and alkalinization of the urine, which resulted in prompt recovery with rapid elimination of the drug (t1/2-11.2 hours, expected 45 to 118 hours). the use of mdac in this newborn was safe and effective. we suggest that age should not pose a barrier to the use of mdac, when indicated.
power of oesophageal peristalsis can be controlled voluntarily. the hypothesis that oesophageal peristalsis can be modified voluntarily was explored. six healthy male volunteers and eight female patients with angina like chest pain underwent oesophageal manometry. each was asked to take a series of swallows, and to vary their size, in random order, by taking either a big gulp or a little swallow. none of the subjects experienced difficulty in doing so. in both groups the amplitude of oesophageal contractions were significantly greater after big gulps than little swallows (p less than 0.01) and this was true for wet (82.0 v 68.9 mmhg) and dry swallows (52.3 v 43.3 mmhg). for the patients' wet swallows the mean values were 73.0 and 56.0 mmhg. thus, the amplitude of oesophageal peristalsis can be controlled voluntarily. this effect may account for some of the within subject variation in the amplitude of oesophageal contractions. during oesophageal manometry subjects should be encouraged to standardise the size of their swallows whenever possible. patients with symptoms related to abnormal oesophageal peristalsis such as dysphagia, heartburn, and chest pain may benefit from biofeedback training.
intractable complex partial seizures associated with occult temporal lobe encephalocele and meningoangiomatosis: a case report. occult congenital temporal lobe encephalocele has rarely been reported in association with medically intractable complex partial seizures. the four previously reported cases were unsuspected preoperatively. we present the case of an 18-year-old woman with intractable complex partial seizures since age 13. seizure onset was electrically localized to the right temporal lobe. preoperative neuroimaging studies revealed a middle fossa defect and inferior herniation of the right temporal lobe. pathologic examination of the resected encephalocele revealed prominent features of meningoangiomatosis. we believe this to be the first case of temporal lobe encephalocele and epilepsy to be diagnosed preoperatively, and the first case also to be associated with meningoangiomatosis. the relevant literature on meningoangiomatosis and on temporal lobe encephalocele as a cause of epilepsy is reviewed.
induction of rna-stabilized dna conformers by transcription of an immunoglobulin switch region a deletion dna rearrangement is associated with immunoglobulin class switching from igm to igg, iga or ige this recombination occurs in immunoglobulin switch regions, which are complex, highly repetitive regions of dna. as switch regions become transcriptionally active just before switch recombination, analysis of the behaviour of these sequences during transcription could elucidate the mechanism of switch recombination. here, we report that transcription of a supercoiled plasmid containing the murine iga switch region (s alpha) leads to a loss of superhelical turns. the resulting series of less supercoiled plasmids is stabilized by rna-dna hybrids formed by the nascent rna transcripts, which remain base-paired with their dna templates.
human papillomavirus type 1-associated squamous cell carcinoma in a heart transplant recipient. the occurrence of squamous cell carcinomas in organ transplant recipients with warts represents a good model to study viral carcinogenesis. most of the cases were reported in renal transplant recipients. we present the case of a heart transplant recipient in whom multiple common warts, preepitheliomatous keratoses, and squamous cell carcinomas developed. the warts began 4 years after the transplantation and the first carcinoma occurred 2 years after the warts, all the lesions being on sun-exposed areas. histologic signs of human papillomavirus infection were seen in all premalignant and malignant lesions. furthermore, human papillomavirus type 1 dna was detected by in situ molecular hybridization within one of the carcinomas. human papillomaviruses, along with other carcinogenic factors, play an important role in the development of carcinomas, and benign types could be implicated. further studies are required to evaluate the frequency of cutaneous malignant neoplasms in heart transplant recipients as compared with renal transplant recipients.
computed tomography of metastatic cervical lymph nodes. a clinical, computed tomographic, pathologic correlative study. a retrospective comparative study of 63 neck dissections was undertaken to evaluate further the accuracy of high-resolution computed tomography (ct) in the detection of nodal metastases, as previous studies have indicated a trend toward the superiority of ct scanning over palpation. the respective values of neck examination, ct scanning, and histopathologic examination were assessed in 51 patients with head and neck cancer who underwent a total of 63 neck dissections. the overall agreement between clinical examination findings and histopathologic findings was 92% vs 81% for ct scanning. a retrospective analysis of the ct findings failed to reveal greater accuracy. we found nodes measuring 10 mm or more with central low density always to be malignant. because ct scanning seems to offer little advantage over palpation in the nonirradiated neck, it should not be regarded as an essential tool in the staging of nodal disease. after radiation therapy, as neck dissection is only performed because of clinical or radiologic suspicion, ct scanning is of utmost importance.
the noncatalytic src homology region 2 segment of abl tyrosine kinase binds to tyrosine-phosphorylated cellular proteins with high affinity. several proteins implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation contain a common noncatalytic domain, src homology region 2 (sh2). we have used the bacterially expressed sh2 domain of abl protein-tyrosine kinase to evaluate the ability of this domain to bind to cellular proteins. ablsh2 specifically bound to a number of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins from cells transformed by tyrosine kinase oncogenes in a filter-binding assay and to a subset of those proteins in solution. the sh2 probe bound almost exclusively to tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins, and binding was eliminated by dephosphorylation of cell proteins. free phosphotyrosine could partially disrupt sh2 binding, suggesting that phosphotyrosine is directly involved in the binding interaction. these results demonstrate that an sh2 domain is sufficient to confer direct, high-affinity phosphotyrosine-dependent binding to proteins and suggest a general role for sh2 domains in cellular signaling pathways.
late recurrence of a hepatocellular carcinoma in a patient with incomplete alagille syndrome. in this study, the case of a patient presenting a second hepatocellular carcinoma 13 years after resection of a first tumor of the same type is reported. in this case, etiological investigations remained negative, but an incomplete form of syndromatic alagille syndrome with paucity of bile ducts in the nontumoral tissue was detected and associated with nodular regenerative hyperplasia and foci of dysplasia. malignant transformation in alagille syndrome seems to be extremely rare. the fact that such tumors evolve very slowly could be an argument for partial hepatectomy and, if necessary, liver transplantation.
cerebrospinal fluid neopterin in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. we evaluated cerebrospinal fluid (csf) concentrations of neopterin, a putative marker of activated macrophages, in 97 subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 who had a spectrum of neurological complications. the highest csf neopterin concentrations occurred in those with neurological opportunistic infections, primary central nervous systems lymphoma, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) dementia complex. in general, the csf concentration of neopterin was independent of csf cell count and blood-brain barrier disruption to albumin. in the patients with aids dementia complex, csf neopterin concentrations correlated with severity of disease and decreased in conjunction with clinical improvement following treatment with zidovudine. these results suggest that csf neopterin, although not disease-specific, may be useful as a surrogate marker for the presence of aids dementia complex and its response to antiviral therapy.
diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations. infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients. in particular, cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation. we are evaluating a new antiviral agent, ganciclovir 9-[1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl] guanine (dhpg), used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections. between march 1, 1987, and june 30, 1989, we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease. from this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with dhpg. tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract (11 patients) or colonoscopy (three patients). invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient, who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with dhpg and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis. while 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with dhpg, four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered. no dhpg toxicity was observed. we believe treatment with dhpg is indicated in this patient population, but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation.
weight reduction in obese hypertensive patients. this study tested the feasibility of a low-technology office-based approach to weight reduction in obese hypertensive patients. family practice residents were randomly assigned to either an experimental or a control group. physicians in the experimental group were instructed in methods of weight reduction, which they then passed on to their patients. patients of experimental physicians were seen monthly, their diets were discussed, and improvements were suggested. the control group patients received their usual care. after six months the experimental patients had lost significantly more weight than the controls and had significantly reduced the number of antihypertensive drugs while maintaining blood pressure control. after 12 months there was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to weight loss, blood pressure, or number of antihypertensive drugs. experimental and control patients who lost weight had visited their physicians more frequently than those who did not and had reduced the number of antihypertensive medications they were taking. this educationally oriented intervention trial is an example of the type of research that is practical to perform in a family practice center and is applicable in family physicians' offices.
comparison of medical and surgical therapy for uncomplicated descending aortic dissection. to guide the choice of medical versus surgical therapy for patients with descending (type b) aortic dissection (tear in the descending aorta without involvement of the ascending aorta), multivariate survival analysis was applied to 136 patients admitted to two medical centers between 1975 and 1988 with acute (n = 89) or chronic (n = 47) descending dissection: group 1, all 136 patients; group 2, 106 patients without rupture, pulse loss, or visceral organ compromise; and group 3, 56 patients from group 2 without major cardiac or renal disease (23 surgical and 33 medical). group 3 medical and surgical subgroups were well matched for baseline characteristics and were potential candidates for either mode of therapy. by cox model analysis, significant predictors of mortality were pleural rupture, other dissection complications, increasing age, and cardiac disease (all p less than 0.01). surgical versus medical therapy was not an independent determinant of survival in any of the three groups for acute or chronic dissection. survival probabilities for all group 3 patients at 1, 5, and 10 years were 0.94, 0.87, and 0.32 (medical) and 0.90, 0.80, and 0.50 (surgical). despite the limitations of this retrospective study (including the possibility of undefined treatment selection biases), these data suggest that medical or early surgical therapy is associated with equivalent outcome in selected patients with uncomplicated acute or chronic descending aortic dissection.
molecular methods to detect the philadelphia chromosome. the ph1 chromosome has two molecular subtypes: a bcr-positive seen in cml and some cases of all, and the bcr-negative subtype mainly seen in all. in cml, because of the restriction of chromosome 22 breakpoints to the bcr, southern analysis to detect bcr rearrangements also can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome. in contrast, the translocation breakpoints on the ph1 chromosome are scattered in all, so that other methods such as pfge and pcr are necessary to detect the ph1 chromosome. in both cml and all, use of these methods to detect molecular abnormalities may be superior to cytogenetics in detecting chromosomal abnormalities. southern analysis also can be used in cml to map breakpoint locations within the bcr. this may offer prognostic information as to the length of chronic phase, but there is conflicting information as to the validity of this approach. the modified pcr (using cdna from mrna) can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome and to define which of the molecular subtypes are present. the exquisite sensitivity of this method, which is capable of detecting as little as a single abnormal molecule of rna or dna, makes it suited for the detection of minimal residual disease in both cml and all. this is particularly useful after intensive therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation. whether these low levels of fusion gene expression are of prognostic significance is still unclear.
l-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid l-tryptophan. we describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental l-tryptophan. exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints, and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the l-tryptophan supplements. the mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed.
tricuspid valve disease with significant tricuspid insufficiency in the fetus: diagnosis and outcome. the echocardiographic studies and clinical course of 27 fetuses (mean gestational age 26.9 weeks) diagnosed in utero with tricuspid valve disease and significant tricuspid regurgitation were reviewed. the diagnosis of ebstein's anomaly was made in 17 of the fetuses, 7 had tricuspid valve dysplasia with poorly developed but normally attached leaflets and 2 had an unguarded tricuspid valve orifice with little or no identifiable tricuspid tissue. one fetus was excluded from data analysis because a more complex heart lesion was documented at autopsy. all fetuses had massive right atrial dilation and most who were serially studied had progressive right-sided cardiomegaly. hydrops fetalis was found in six cases and atrial flutter in five. associated cardiac lesions included pulmonary stenosis in five cases and pulmonary atresia in six. four fetuses with normal forward pulmonary artery flow at the initial examination were found at subsequent study to have retrograde pulmonary artery and ductal flow in association with the development of pulmonary stenosis (n = 1) and pulmonary atresia (n = 3). on review of the clinical course of the 23 fetuses (excluding 3 with elective abortion), 48% of the fetuses died in utero and 35% who were liveborn died despite vigorous medical and, when necessary, surgical management, many of whom had severe congestive heart failure. of the four infants who survived the neonatal period, three had a benign neonatal course, all of whom were diagnosed with mild to moderate ebstein's anomaly; only one had pulmonary outflow obstruction. an additional finding at autopsy was significant lung hypoplasia documented in 10 of 19 autopsy reports.
lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death. therefore, the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope. thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes (group 1) and 65 patients had no syncope (group 2). these two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age, gender, incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia, clinical history, frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease. there were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation. there were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium, atrioventricular node, accessory pathway and right ventricle. furthermore, no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia, mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation, and minimum rr interval during atrial fibrillation. in addition, the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2. the occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates. furthermore, the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence.
effects of inflammatory mediators on the responsiveness of isolated human airways to methacholine. several studies have suggested that in asthmatics the quantities of inflammatory mediators such as histamine, thromboxane a2 (txa2), prostaglandin d2 (pgd2), prostaglandin f2 alpha (pgf2 alpha), and leukotriene c4 (ltc4) that are present in the airway lumen are related to the degree of bronchial responsiveness to inhaled methacholine (mch). therefore, we studied the effect of these mediators on the cholinergic responsiveness of isolated human airway segments. lung tissue collected at thoracotomy from 30 patients was studied. dose-response curves to mch were obtained from bronchial segments before, during, and after incubation with either a subthreshold or a threshold concentration of histamine (10(-10) or 10(-8) m), the stable txa2 analogue u46619 (10(-11) or 10(-9) m), pgd2 (5 x 10(-9) or 5 x 10(-7) m), pgf2 alpha (10(-9) or 10(-7) m), or ltc4 (10(-11) or 10(-9) m). with the exception of ltc4, the presence of any of these mediators at either concentration increased the sensitivity to mch by a factor of 1.1 to 2 (p less than 0.05, anova). this increase did not depend on the dose of the mediator (p greater than 0.05, anova). these data indicate that mediator-induced muscle hypersensitivity can explain a small part of the leftward shift of the dose-response curve to inhaled mch as observed in asthma.
cervicogenic headache: diagnostic criteria. criteria for the diagnosis of cervicogenic headache are proposed, which include unilateral head pain, symptoms and signs of neck involvement, non-clustering episodic moderate pain originating in the neck then spreading to the head, and response to root or nerve blockade; plus rarer and non-obligatory features such as autonomic disturbances, dizziness, phonophotophobia, monocular visual blurring, and difficulty swallowing.
thyroarytenoid muscle activity during hypoxia in awake lambs. it is generally accepted that hypoxia in early life results in active laryngeal braking of expiratory airflow via the recruitment of glottic adductor muscles. we examined the electromyogram expiratory activity of the thyroarytenoid muscle in seven 11- to 18-day-old awake nonsedated lambs exposed to an inspired o2 fraction of 0.08 for 18 min. the lambs breathed through a face mask and a pneumotachograph. during baseline prehypoxic breathing, the thyroarytenoid muscle was largely inactive in each awake lamb. unexpectedly, no recruitment of the thyroarytenoid muscle was recorded during hypoxia in any of the seven lambs; simultaneous examination of the flow-volume curves revealed an absence of expiratory airflow braking. also unexpectedly, marked expiratory activity of the thyroarytenoid muscle was recorded, with each expiration occurring within less than 10 s after the return to room air. the resulting delay of expiration was apparent in the flow-volume loops. thus, in awake 11- to 18-day-old lambs, 1) active expiratory glottic adduction is absent during hypoxia and 2) a return from hypoxia to room air results in prolonged expiration as well as active glottic adduction that controls end-expiratory lung volume.
collis gastroplasty: origin and evolution. in 1957 j. leigh collis published his innovative operation for treating the difficult problem of the irreducible hiatal hernia, esophagitis, and stricture. the design of the operation was based on the relatively primitive understanding of hiatal hernia and the newly emerging concept of reflux esophagitis. a variety of antireflux operations by different surgeons emerged over the years to follow. the original collis gastroplasty has been subsequently modified with the addition of both partial and complete fundoplication procedures. the place of the modified collis gastroplasty-fundoplication operations in today's approach to the problems of hiatal hernia and gastroesophageal reflux disease remains unsettled.
liver transplantation with atrioatrial anastomosis for budd-chiari syndrome. we report the case of a young woman with budd-chiari syndrome in whom mesentericoval shunt was first performed, followed by transcaval liver resection and hepatoatrial anatomosis 3 years later. liver transplantation became necessary 5 years later because of deterioarating liver function with portal hypertension and bleeding. successful transplantation was performed with atrioatrial anastomosis with help of cardiopulmonary bypass, simplifying considerably the technical procedure and reducing dramatically blood loss.
the validity of health risk appraisals for coronary heart disease: results from a randomized field trial. background: while health risk appraisals (hras) are becoming increasingly popular as tools for health assessment and health education, comparatively little is known about the accuracy of these risk estimates. methods: a field trial among 732 randomly selected adults ages 25 to 65 years was conducted to assess the validity of the risk scores produced by four widely used hras. results: self-reported hra risk scores for cigarette smoking and relative weight were generally accurate, but correlations between physiological measurements and scores for blood pressure, cholesterol, and physical activity were always lower than .51. correlations between epidemiologic estimates of the probability of chd death and hra total risk scores ranged from .13 to .75; partial correlations adjusting for age, race, and gender ranged from .12 to .47. conclusions: the hras chosen for the field trial exhibited modest correlations with the chd mortality risk predicted by the epidemiologic model. mathematical errors made by respondents completing self-scored instruments and lack of knowledge regarding physiologic status decrease the accuracy of hra risk estimates.
thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax using carbon dioxide laser. in an effort to improve the success rate of the previously described thoracoscopic electrocautery ablation technique of spontaneous pneumothorax, the carbon dioxide laser was evaluated in 12 patients. the recurrent (5 patients) or persistent (7 patients) spontaneous pneumothoraces were caused by rupture of (1) blebs in 6 patients, (2) intrapulmonary apical type ii bullae in 3 patients, and (3) diffuse bullous emphysema, type iii, in 3. the air leaks were successfully sealed in all but 1 patient with ruptured type ii bulla. surgical specimen from this single failure suggested that the entire inner lining of the bullae must be thermocoagulated. this technical modification led to successful outcome in 2 subsequent cases. with the use of carbon dioxide laser, it was possible to treat not only small blebs but all types of bullae causing spontaneous pneumothorax. laser thoracoscopy is effective and safe in treating spontaneous pneumothorax.
plasma therapy for severe hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children in atlantic canada. clinical reports have suggested that therapy with fresh frozen plasma is a useful adjunct in the management of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (hus). we reviewed the charts of 36 children with severe hus who were treated at the izaac walton killam hospital for children, halifax, over 10 years to assess the effectiveness of plasma therapy. all children who required specific supportive therapy for renal dysfunction, hemolysis or serious extrarenal complications were included. we compared the outcome of 18 children who received plasma therapy from 1982 to 1987 with that of 18 children who did not. the two groups were similar with regard to the severity of hus, the length of hospital stay, the duration of renal dysfunction and the incidence of disease-related complications, such as seizures, enterocolitis and cardiomyopathy. at discharge the prevalence of hypertension was higher in the plasma therapy group than in the control group. plasma therapy did not demonstrate any benefit that would outweigh the risk of fluid overload, hyperproteinemia and transmission of viral infection.
salt blocks the renal benefits of ramipril in diabetic hypertensive rats. to establish if the benefit of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy in retarding progressive diabetic renal injury is due to a specific intrarenal effect of the systemic hypotensive effect, we studied the effect of long-term ramipril treatment on blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate, and urinary protein excretion in streptozotocin-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats. the hypotensive effect of ramipril was prevented by a high salt diet, which did not alter the degree of renal angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. three weeks after uninephrectomy and induction of diabetes, rats were allocated to three groups. groups 1 and 2 were given 1% nacl, whereas group 3 was given water as drinking solution. one week later, groups 2 and 3 received 0.4 mg/kg/day ramipril in their drinking solution, which was continued over a 2-month period. ramipril produced a blood pressure fall only in water-drinking rats (group 3) despite a similar reduction in plasma and renal angiotensin converting enzyme activity in groups 2 and 3. salt-loaded rats had a progressive increase in urinary protein excretion over the duration of study. ramipril treatment prevented an increase in protein excretion only in animals given water and with a reduced systolic blood pressure. glomerular filtration rate was similar in all three groups. ramipril treatment improved animal survival independently of a reduction in blood pressure or an effect on proteinuria. although it is possible that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors have specific intrarenal effects reducing progression of diabetic proteinuria, concomitant control of systemic blood pressure appears to be necessary to demonstrate a benefit.
giant cell arteritis. a case with unusual neurologic manifestations and a normal sedimentation rate. giant cell (temporal) arteritis is a serious inflammatory condition that can lead to blindness, stroke, or other adverse sequelae if not properly treated. an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate has traditionally been emphasized as a criterion for making this diagnosis. delays in diagnosis and unnecessary testing may occur when a patient presents with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a clinical history consistent with this condition. we describe a patient with giant cell arteritis who presented with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and who subsequently developed devastating central nervous system complications.
an analysis of abnormalities of the retinoblastoma gene in human ovarian and endometrial carcinoma. the altered expression of the human retinoblastoma (rb) gene has been demonstrated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of rb and other tumors. to determine whether the rb gene might be involved in the pathogenesis of human ovarian and endometrial cancer, dna from 24 human ovarian tumors, 3 normal ovaries, 3 endometrial carcinomas, and 1 endometrial hyperplasia was examined with an rb complementary dna probe. evidence for homozygous deletion of the rb gene was observed in only one specimen. interestingly, the specimen was an endometrioid tumor of the ovary of low malignant potential (lmp). this patient experienced rapid progression of the tumor and died 8 months after diagnosis. abnormalities of the rb gene may be involved in the aggressive biologic behavior of certain forms of ovarian carcinoma, particularly those of lmp.
magnetic resonance imaging in idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis: measurement of t1 relaxation time. magnetic resonance imaging at 0.08 tesla was performed in nine patients with proven idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis. a total of 11 scans was performed. three patients were scanned before diagnosis; one of these also had two follow-up scans. a further six patients were scanned a variable time after diagnosis and treatment. on each scan, a periaortic soft-tissue mass was readily identified, the distribution corresponding to that seen on computed tomography. there was no difference in the mean t1 relaxation time of the mass between patients scanned before diagnosis and those scanned after treatment. however, the patient followed with serial scans showed a progressive reduction in the t1 value of the mass with time. comparison with results obtained in patients with lymphoma suggests that the t1 values in retroperitoneal fibrosis are lower than in lymphoma, particularly non-hodgkin's lymphoma.
in vitro anticolon antibody production by mucosal or peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with ulcerative colitis [published erratum appears in gut 1991 apr;32(4):460] serum anticolon antibody and in vitro anti-colon antibody production by peripheral blood and mucosal lymphocytes was investigated in patients with ulcerative colitis. the frequency of serum anticolon antibody was 71% in 41 patients with ulcerative colitis, estimated by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) using isolated rat colon epithelial cells. this finding confirms our previous report on the frequency of serum anticolon antibody detected by flow cytometry analysis. the estimated frequencies of igg anticolon antibody secreting cells were 1.5-12.5/10(6) cells in the colonic mucosa and 0.1-0.5/10(6) cells in peripheral blood, from patients with ulcerative colitis when epstein-barr virus (ebv) was used as a b cell polyclonal activator. poisson analysis of limiting dilution culture showed that about one per 140 igg cells in the colonic mucosa synthesised anticolon antibody. two monoclonal igg antibodies were obtained from ebv transformed anticolon antibody secreting cells by limiting dilution method. one reacted with goblet cells in the intestine, and the other reacted mainly with colonic epithelial cells. these results suggest that heterogeneous anticolon antibodies are present in patients with ulcerative colitis and that colonic mucosa may be the main source of anticolon antibody. local autoimmune reaction might have an important role in causing the inflammation of colonic mucosa in this disease.
evaluation of portal-systemic shunting in rats from mesenteric and splenic beds. in rats with partial portal vein ligation, 95 +/- 0.9% of the splenic blood flow is shunted from the portal to the systemic circulation when an intrasplenic injection of microspheres is used to determine the degree of shunting. despite this magnitude of portal-systemic shunting, several biochemical and endocrine consequences of portal-systemic shunting occur at levels below what is expected for the degree of shunting found. in an effort to resolve these discordant findings, shunting from both the splenic and the mesenteric bed was studied in anesthetized portal hypertensive rats with various degrees and/or duration of portal vein stenosis. the shunting from the mesenteric bed averaged 66.7 +/- 29.9% (range 5.1-99.1%) and was influenced both by the degree and duration of portal vein stenosis. in contrast, shunting from the splenic bed averaged 97.3 +/- 4.0% (range 79-99.9%) and demonstrated no variation between groups determined by the degree of portal vein stenosis. the shunting from the splenic bed was consistently greater than that found from the mesenteric bed. mesenteric but not splenic shunting correlated with serum bile acid levels. mesenteric shunting was related inversely to the weight-adjusted liver mass and to serum testosterone levels. based upon these data obtained in portal hypertensive rats, it is concluded that splenic injections of microspheres overestimate portal-systemic shunting. in contrast, mesenteric injections of microspheres yield values for shunting that correlate well with independently determined biochemical and endocrine consequences of shunting. these observations support the validity of the mesenteric shunting measurements obtained.
adult peripheral neuroepithelioma in meckel's cave. a case of peripheral neuroepithelioma arising from the trigeminal nerve in meckel's cave is presented. the discussion emphasizes the pathological criteria for the diagnosis of a peripheral neuroepithelioma and the current controversy about the classification of this and related tumors.
brain ph in head injury: an image-guided 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy study. it has been suggested that brain acidosis may follow head trauma, and therapies aimed at correcting acidosis have been proposed. direct measurements of intracellular ph, however, have thus far not been possible in clinical situations. we have studied the intracellular brain ph in 22 patients after head injury (mean glasgow coma score 6.1). patients were investigated by a combined approach of phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging (overall examination time 50-75 min) at a mean time of 11 days after injury (36 hours to 24 days). 31p spectra were obtained in 11 patients on assisted ventilation and in 11 patients on spontaneous ventilation. these spectra were analyzed to yield the ph in the regions studied in all the patients. all ph values were in the normal or alkalotic range when compared with 6 age-matched normal controls. no differences were found between patients on assisted ventilation and patients on spontaneous ventilation. when analyzed as a group, the brain ph in the focal lesions appeared to increase in the first days, to reach a peak in the alkalotic range in the second week, and to return toward normal within 3 weeks from acute injury. our results suggest that there is no evidence of posttraumatic intracellular brain acidosis in recent human head injury, and therefore, therapies aimed at alkalinizing brain cells need to be reconsidered.
lower extremity venography with iohexol: results and complications. the frequency of side effects of a nonionic contrast agent (iohexol) was studied in 463 consecutive patients who underwent venography for clinically suspected deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) and compared with the frequency of adverse reactions of another series in which patients received either the same contrast material or a high-osmolar ionic compound. minor side effects, including local pain and discomfort, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, skin reactions, superficial phlebitis, and edema, occurred in 83 patients (17.9%; 95% confidence interval [ci], 15%-22%). the only serious adverse reaction (bronchospasm) was seen in two patients (0.4%; 95% ci, 0.1%-1.4%). postvenographic thrombosis confirmed by means of repeat venography occurred in one of 41 consecutive patients with a previous normal venogram (incidence, 2%; 95% ci, 0%-13%). the frequency of side effects appears to be significantly less than when conventional high-osmolar contrast agents are used. use of iohexol for venography is associated with minor side effects in approximately one-fifth of patients, and serious adverse reactions necessitating therapy are rare.
diagnostic value of brush cytology in the diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma: a study in 65 patients with bile duct strictures. malignant strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts are difficult to distinguish from benign strictures, particularly in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. because attempts at diagnosing small cancers with fine-needle aspiration biopsy are not possible in the absence of an associated mass lesion and because the sensitivity of exfoliative biliary cytology is controversial, brush cytology has been used as a potential means of establishing a specific diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma. herein we report our experience with this technique when performed on 65 patients over a 5-yr period. each had at least one brushing. thirty-seven were found to have bile duct carcinoma and 28 were found to have benign strictures. of these 37, the first brushing was positive for malignancy in 15 (40%), whereas four (11%) had cells suspected but not diagnostic of malignancy. thirteen patients with bile duct carcinoma whose initial brushings were negative for malignancy had second brushings. of these, five (38%) had malignant cells, whereas three (24%) yielded suspicious cells. three of the eight whose first two brushings were negative for malignancy were found to have malignant cells on the third brushing. in contrast, of the 28 patients with benign strictures, malignant cells were never found. however, in two patients, suspicious cells were reported with the first but not the second brushing. a single negative or suspicious cytological finding decreased the probability of bile duct carcinoma to 43%. two and three sequential negative tests reduced the probability to 32% and 0%, respectively.
aggressive granulomatous lesions in cementless total hip arthroplasty. we describe six patients with aggressive granulomatous lesions around cementless total hip prostheses. two patients previously had a cemented prosthesis in the same hip. the lord prosthesis was used in five patients, the pca in one. both prostheses were made of chrome-cobalt alloy. pain on weight-bearing occurred on average 3.2 years after the cementless arthroplasty, and at that time radiography revealed aggressive granulomatosis around the proximal femoral stem and the acetabular component in five of the patients; one had a large solitary granuloma in the proximal femur. revision was performed on average 4.8 years after the cementless arthroplasty. at that time all granulomas had grown large in size; while waiting for revision operation, two femoral stem components fractured. all the granulomas showed a uniform histopathology, which included histiocytosis; the cause for these lesions was thought to be plastic debris from the acetabular socket.
role of small calibre chest tube drainage for iatrogenic pneumothorax. a 2 mm teflon catheter was used as a chest tube in 28 patients with iatrogenic pneumothorax. frequent aspirations through the catheter were performed in 16 of the patients. in the remaining 12 patients the catheter was connected to a one way flutter valve. the treatment was successful in 27 of the 28 patients--one patient required a large calibre chest tube. the mean drainage time was 48 hours. the small catheter technique is superior to the use of a large intercostal drain as it is much less traumatic and troublesome. the small calibre chest tube with a one way valve is recommended as a safe and easy technique.
erythromycin failure with subsequent pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim. we report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin. review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures. we recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections. suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed.
bradyarrhythmia after heart transplantation. incidence, time course, and outcome. from june 1980 to april 1989, 72 of 401 (18%) adult recipients of orthotopic heart transplantation developed prolonged (greater than 24 hours) bradyarrhythmias (less than 60 beats/min) within 5 days after transplantation. junctional bradycardia occurred in 50 (69%) recipients, sinus bradycardia in 18 (25%), and slow ventricular response during atrial fibrillation in four (6%). fifty-five of 72 (76%) patients had bradyarrhythmias of less than 20 days' duration (less than 7 days, 50 patients; 7-20 days, five patients). fifty patients returned to sinus rhythm (greater than 60 beats/min) by the time of discharge. five patients expired within 20 days. seventeen of 72 (24%) patients had bradyarrhythmia for more than 20 days, which was symptomatic in 11. all 17 patients (junctional bradycardia, 13 patients; sinus bradycardia, four patients) received a permanent pacemaker within 40 days after transplantation. between 1 and 12 months (mean, 4 +/- 3 months) after pacemaker implantation, 12 patients recovered sinus rhythm (greater than 70 beats/min). the other five patients had intrinsic rates of 32-57 beats/min (mean, 48 +/- 10 beats/min) during 1-9 months (mean, 4 +/- 3 months) of follow-up. the donor ischemic time in bradyarrhythmia patients was 202 +/- 34 minutes, which was significantly longer (p less than 0.01) than the 173 +/- 43 minutes for those patients without bradyarrhythmia. conclusively, the incidence of posttransplantation bradyarrhythmia is relatively high. it is usually temporary, however, even in patients with a prolonged duration of bradyarrhythmia. a relation appears to exist between donor ischemic time and the incidence of bradyarrhythmia.
survey of histologic specimens of human cancer for human papillomavirus types 6/11/16/18 by filter in situ hybridization. histologic specimens (317) of genital and nongenital cancers and normal tissue were analyzed for the presence of the dna of human papillomavirus (hpv) 6, 11, 16, and 18 by filter in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded, formalin-fixed tissue (histofish). hpv dna was found in 73 of 172 (42%) anogenital lesions and 17 of 116 (15%) nonanogenital carcinomas. no hpv dna was found in normal mouse skin (five samples), human autopsy liver (two samples), or kidney (eight samples), or in carcinomas of the breast (three samples), bladder (five samples), or colon (nine samples). of the nongenital tumors, hpv dna was found in the carcinomas of the lung (2 of 5), anus (7 of 18), esophagus (9 of 39), buccal cavity (1 of 5), and larynx (5 of 50). hpv dna was also detected in 2 of 11 histologically normal specimens of the cervix and 1 of 3 human skin lesions. the detection of hpv dna in carcinomas of the lung, larynx, and esophagus as well as in the anogenital region confirms recent suggestions that hpv types 6, 11, 16, and 18 have a wider association with different types of cancer than previously believed. the study also shows that histofish is a useful method for detecting hpv-dna in histologic specimens.
interpleural analgesia [published erratum appears in heart lung 1991 jul;20(4):413] postoperative pain relief is necessary not only for patient comfort, but also to facilitate ventilation and ambulation. the use of opioid analgesia, either intravenously, intramuscularly, or intraspinally, may be ineffective and can cause respiratory depression. the administration of local anesthetics into the pleural space is a technique of providing analgesia of rapid onset and long duration. this analgesia is accomplished without causing the respiratory depression or sedation associated with the use of opioids. because innovative analgesic methods are often selected for critically ill patients presenting after surgery in the intensive care setting, critical care nurses may encounter patients receiving local anesthetics administered via interpleural catheter.
electrocardiographic markers of ischemia during mental stress testing in postinfarction patients. role of body surface mapping. in patients with coronary artery disease, radionuclide investigations have documented a high incidence of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia in the absence of significant electrocardiographic changes and/or angina. to investigate the causes of the low electrocardiographic sensitivity, we recorded body surface maps during mental arithmetic in 22 normal volunteers and 37 postinfarction patients with residual exercise ischemia. myocardial perfusion was studied with thallium-201 or technetium-99 (sestamibi) planar scans. in 14 patients, body surface maps were also recorded during atrial pacing at the heart rate values achieved during mental stress. while taking the body surface maps, the area from j point to 80 msec after this point (st-80) was analyzed by integral maps, difference maps, and departure maps (the difference between each patient's difference map and the mean difference map for normal subjects). the body surface mapping criteria for ischemia were a new negative area on the integral maps, a negative potential of more than 2 sd from mean normal values on the difference maps, and a negative departure index of more than 2. scintigraphy showed asymptomatic myocardial hypoperfusion in 33 patients. eight patients had significant st segment depression. the st-80 integral and difference maps identified 17 ischemic patients. twenty-four patients presented abnormal departure maps. one patient presented st depression and abnormal body surface maps without reversible tracer defect. in 14 of 14 patients, atrial pacing did not reproduce the body surface map abnormalities. the analyses of the other electrocardiographic variables showed that in patients with mental stress-induced perfusion defects, only changes of t apex-t offset (at-et) interval in frank leads and changes of maximum negative potential value of at-et integral maps significantly differed from those of normal subjects. our results confirm the low electrocardiographic sensitivity for detecting mental stress-induced myocardial hypoperfusion in postinfarction patients. st analysis in the body surface map increases the information content of the electrocardiographic signal. t wave analysis appears to offer fewer diagnostic advantages.
the metabolic consequences of a "washed" cardiopulmonary bypass pump-priming fluid in children undergoing cardiac operations. the substrate load of the pump-priming fluid, especially glucose and lactate, has a major influence on the metabolic response of children during cardiac operations and may be detrimental neurologically. it is possible to cleanse the priming fluid of these excess substrates by ultrafiltration followed by the addition of a balanced electrolyte solution. we have used this technique in the bypass management of nine children over 1 year of age and weighing less than 18 kg who were studied from induction of anesthesia to 6 hours postoperatively. frequent blood samples were taken for measurement of electrolytes, intermediary metabolites, and stress-related hormones. throughout the study period electrolyte concentrations were maintained within the physiologic range and changes in blood glucose and lactate were minimized compared with those of matched historical controls from previous studies. during the period of cardiopulmonary bypass mean serum glucose concentrations varied between 4.4 and 7.7 mmol/l and peaked at 10.7 mmol/l just before skin closure. the mean serum lactate concentration did not exceed 2.3 mmol/l during the period studied. thus ultrafiltration of the priming fluid and replacement with a balanced electrolyte solution results in the delivery to the patient of a reasonably physiologic substrate load, which is reflected in improved control of mean plasma intermediary metabolite concentrations. the method may form the basis of further clinical studies to determine specific aspects of the metabolic stress response in children.
effects of dietary calcium on nimodipine-sensitive calcium channel function in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. we studied the effects of dietary ca2+ on blood pressure, survival, and calcium channel function to investigate cardiovascular disease mechanisms in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. beginning at 3 weeks of age, rats were fed high sodium chloride diets (8.0%) in combination with either high (2.0%) or low (0.2%) ca2+ diets for 8 weeks. at 12 weeks of age, survival was 90% in the high ca2+ group and 30% in the low ca2+ group. the higher blood pressure and lower survival in the low ca2+ group suggest an intensification of altered vascular muscle cell mechanisms by a dietary ca2+ deficit. nimodipine (1-10 nm) effectively blocked l-type ca2+ currents in isolated vascular muscle cells from both groups. contraction of isolated cells that were not patch clamped to high potassium solutions were also blocked by 1 nm nimodipine. disappearance of the l-type ca2+ channel current was accelerated by holding at depolarizing potentials (positive to -50 mv) and by depolarizing steps to 0 mv. nimodipine block of the l-type ca2+ currents in vascular muscle is believed to contribute substantially to antihypertensive properties and stroke prevention, actions that may develop fully only in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats on a diet of at least normal ca2+.
second primary tumours of the larynx following bronchial carcinoma. the occurrence of multiple primary malignancies in patients with laryngeal cancer is well known. the possibility that lung cancer patients may be at risk of subsequent laryngeal cancer is less well recognized. the possibility of laryngeal cancer developing later has implications for the follow-up of lung cancer patients. three cases of subsequent laryngeal primary cancer occurring in survivors of bronchial cancer are presented and the implications are discussed.
in vitro colony culture and chromosomal studies in hepatic and portal vein thrombosis--possible evidence of an occult myeloproliferative state. we have studied the prevalence of an underlying myeloproliferative state in 20 patients with either hepatic or portal vein thrombosis. using conventional clinical and laboratory criteria, an underlying myeloproliferative state was identified as the cause of the thrombosis in five patients (25%). a further 10 of the remaining 15 cases were found to have characteristic in vitro bone marrow culture studies and cytogenetic abnormalities suggestive of an underlying myeloproliferative disorder. although none of these 10 cases have developed overt clinical and laboratory features of such a myeloproliferative disorder after a median observation period of two years, the presence of clonal karyotypic abnormalities in three cases, increased megakaryocyte colony growth in three cases and endogenous erythropoietin independent colony growth of the marrow erythroid progenitors in seven cases, argues strongly in favour of a primary haematological disorder. this has important therapeutic implications, particularly in cases being considered for orthotopic liver transplantation.
tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin. case report. the authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction. two similar cases were found upon review of the literature. the embryology of this lesion is discussed.
limitation of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using iodized oil for small hepatocellular carcinoma. a study in resected cases. the radiologic and histologic findings are presented of the resection of 14 small hepatocellular carcinomas (hcc), less than 2 cm in maximum diameter, after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (tce) using iodized oil. the effect of tce on small hcc depended on the morphologic type of the tumors. when no extracapsular invasion of tumor cells occurred, tce was extremely effective against encapsulated tumors. however, in nine of the 14 resected specimens, viable tumor cells remained in or around the tumor. the authors suggest that small hcc are not always curable with tce alone and that a multi-disciplinary approach is necessary for patients with small hcc.
general principles of therapy of pyogenic meningitis. in bacterial meningitis, several pharmacodynamic factors determine therapeutic success-when defined as sterilization of the csf: (1) local host defense deficits in the cns require the use of bactericidal antibiotics to sterilize the csf. (2) csf antibiotic concentrations that are at least 10-fold above the mbc are necessary for maximal bactericidal activity. protein binding, low ph, and slow bacterial growth rates are among the factors that may explain the high antibiotic concentrations necessary in vivo. (3) high csf peak concentrations that lead to rapid bacterial killing appear more important than prolonged suprainhibitory concentrations, probably because very low residual levels in the csf prevent bacterial regrowth, even during relatively long dosing intervals. (4) penetration of antibiotics into the csf is significantly impaired by the blood-brain barrier and thus, very high serum levels are necessary to achieve the csf concentrations required for optimal bactericidal activity. beyond these principles, recent data suggests that rapid lytic killing of bacteria in the csf may have harmful effects on the brain because of the release of biologically active products from the lysed bacteria. since rapid csf sterilization remains a key therapeutic goal, the harmful consequences of bacterial lysis present a major challenge in the therapy of bacterial meningitis. currently, dexamethasone represents that only clinically beneficial approach to reduce the harmful effects of bacterial lysis, and novel approaches are required to improve the outcome of this serious infection.
availability of transplantable organs from brain stem dead donors in intensive care units. objective--by audit from january to june 1989 to quantify, separately for hearts, kidneys, liver, lungs and corneas, the possible increases in transplantable organs from brain stem dead potential donors in intensive care units and to compare them with the increases achieved in october-november 1989, during intense, national publicity about transplantation. design--prospective audit of all deaths in intensive care units in england from 1 january to 30 june 1989 and subsequent case study of the impact of publicity on offers and donations during october-november 1989. setting--15 regional and special health authorities in england. patients--5803 patients dying in intensive care units, of whom 497 were confirmed as brain stem dead and had no general medical contraindication to organ donation. main outcome measures--organ specific suitability for transplantation (as reported by intensive care units); consent for donation of specific suitable organs; and procurement of specific organs reported as suitable for transplantation and offered. results--in the 497 (8.6%) brain stem dead potential donors were estimated the organ specific suitability for heart as 63%, kidneys 95%, liver 70%, lungs 29%, and corneas 91%. refusal of relatives (30%) accounted for major losses of suitable organs of all types. for kidneys the loss was equivalent to 44% of brain stem dead actual kidney donors. no discussion of organ donation was the second most important reason for missed kidney donors, the loss being equivalent to 10% of brain stem dead actual donors. non-procurement or difficulties with allocating organs was the second most notable cause of missed suitable liver and lung donors; 29% (55) of the offered total of 189 liver donors and 27% (21) of 78 offered suitable lung donors in six months. non-procurement of suitable, offered organs was rare for kidneys and modest, of the order of 13% and 10% respectively, for heart and corneas. corneal donation from brain stem dead potential donors might be improved nearly as much (that is, a 78% increase in brain stem dead actual corneal donors) by specific measures to promote corneal donation when other organs are offered as by reducing the overall refusal rate. restricted offers, non-procurement, and no discussion of donation accounted for nearly equal numbers of lost donations of hearts (each equivalent to 15% of donated hearts). during october-november 1989 when there was intense, positive publicity about transplantation the rates of refusal and non-discussion fell compared with during january-june (22%, 36/163 v 30%, 138/460; 7%, 33/497 v 2%, 4/167 respectively). offers of suitable donors increased significantly (p less than 0.02) compared with the first six months of 1989, most notably for heart donors (80 v 60.1 expected) and kidney donors (122 v 102.1 expected) but only for kidneys was there a noticeable 17% increase in actual donors (118 actual audited donors v 100.8 expected donors; p = 0.09). conclusions--four strategies to increase the supply of transplantable organs from brain stem dead potential donors in intensive care units were identified: (a) reducing refusal of relatives (b) avoiding non-procurement of actually suitable organs (by logistical initiatives) and deterioration of initially suitable organs (by donor care initiatives); (c) converting restricted offers to unrestricted offers; and (d) ensuring discussion with families. early referral to the transplant team or coordinator gives time for discussion about donor care and agreement on medical suitability for donation of specific organs. solving some of the logistical problems of non-procurement may be a prerequisite for increased offers to be translated into increased donations. the impact of publicity therefore needs to be measured on offers of suitable donors as well as by actual donations.
mechanism of fibrous capsule formation surrounding hepatocellular carcinoma. immunohistochemical study. in 14 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma with capsule, we studied the mechanism of capsule formation by the immunoperoxidase technique using antibodies to types i, iii, and iv collagen, antilaminin antibody, and anti-prolyl hydroxylase antibody. marked round cell infiltration was observed in the noncancerous side of the capsule and around compressed hepatocytes near the capsule. thin capsules were composed primarily of type iii collagen produced by an increased number of fibroblasts, transitional ito cells, and hepatocytes near the capsule. in thickened capsules, the noncancerous side consisted primarily of type iii collagen and the cancerous side of types i and iii collagen. type i as well as type iii collagen was produced by fibroblasts, transitional ito cells, and hepatocytes. the capsule thus formed is suggested to be part of the defense mechanisms against the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma.
rural obstetrics: a 5-year prospective study of the outcomes of all pregnancies in a remote northern community. objective: to determine whether a small, isolated hospital that has no facilities to perform cesarean section and handles fewer than 50 deliveries annually can provide acceptably safe obstetric and perinatal care. design: cohort study. setting: southern region of the queen charlotte islands, bc, served by a 21-bed hospital and medical clinic in queen charlotte city. the hospital and clinic are staffed by five family practitioners without local obstetric, pediatric, anesthetic or surgical support. patients: all women beyond 20 weeks' gestation who gave birth from jan. 1, 1984, to dec. 31, 1988; 33% were primiparous and 20% native. of the 286 women 192 (67%) delivered locally, 33 (12%) were transferred after admission because of antepartum or intrapartum complications, and 61 (21%) delivered elsewhere by choice or on their physician's recommendation. outcome measures: perinatal mortality rate and adverse perinatal outcome (death, birth weight of less than 2500 g, neonatal transfer or apgar score of less than 7 at 5 minutes). main results: there were six perinatal deaths, for a perinatal mortality rate of 20.8 (95% confidence interval [ci] 4.4 to 37.2). the hospital-based rate of adverse perinatal outcome was 6.2% (12 of 193 newborns) (95% ci 2.8% to 9.6%). conclusions: the perinatal mortality rate is not a meaningful way to assess small populations; about 85 years of data would be required to decrease the 95% cis from within 16 to within 4. the rate of adverse perinatal outcome in our study was consistent with the rate in other studies. collaboration of small, rural hospitals is required to increase cohort size so that the correlation between the currently accepted standard, the perinatal mortality rate, and other outcome measures can be determined.
serum trace elements and cu/zn ratio in breast cancer patients. serum copper, zinc, and the cu/zn ratio were measured in 55 patients with breast disease (20 with benign breast diseases and 35 patients with breast cancer) and 30 controls. the mean serum copper levels were higher in breast cancer than in benign breast diseases (167.3 micrograms/dl vs. 117.6 micrograms/dl) (p less than 0.001) and controls (167.3 micrograms/dl vs. 98.8 micrograms/dl) (p less than 0.001). patients with advanced breast cancer had higher serum copper levels than did patients with early breast cancer (177.9 micrograms/dl vs. 130.4 micrograms/dl) (p less than 0.001). the mean serum zinc levels were lowered only in patients with advanced breast cancer as compared with controls (88.6 micrograms/dl vs. 115.1 micrograms/dl) (p less than 0.001). serum zinc levels were not decreased in patients with early breast cancer and benign breast diseases. the cu/zn ratio was increased in breast cancer patients (1.91 vs. 0.86) (p less than 0.001) but not in patients with benign breast diseases. the precise mechanisms responsible for the alterations in trace element levels in breast cancer patients are still unclear and require further evaluation. however, the serum copper levels and the cu/zn ratio may be used as biochemical markers in these patients.
impact of field-transmitted electrocardiography on time to in-hospital thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. to assess the impact of a field-transmitted electrocardiogram (ecg) on patients with possible acute myocardial infarction, randomized and open trials were performed with a portable electrocardiographic system coupled with a cellular phone programmed to automatically transmit ecgs to the base hospital. consecutive patients served by the 6 units of the salt lake city emergency rescue system were studied; 71 patients were randomized to in-field ecg (n = 34) versus no ecg (n = 37). time on scene was 16.4 +/- 9.7 minutes for the ecg group versus 16.1 +/- 7.0 minutes for the non ecg group (difference not significant). time of transport averaged 18.2 +/- 9.9 and 17.6 +/- 13.1 minutes, respectively (difference not significant). six of 34 patients with in-field ecg showed acute myocardial infarction, qualified for and received thrombolytic therapy at 48 +/- 12 minutes after hospital arrival (range 30 to 60) compared with 103 +/- 44 minutes (p less than 0.01) for 51 historical control patients and 68 +/- 29 minutes for 6 concurrent control patients without in-field ecg. thus, in-field ecg causes negligible delays in paramedic time, leads to significant decreases in time to in-hospital thrombolysis and may make in-field therapy feasible. in-field ecg may be an important addition to reperfusion strategies.
simplified method for estimating true aortic valve mean gradient from simultaneous left ventricular and peripheral arterial pressure recordings. estimation of the aortic valve gradient by simultaneous recording of left ventricular and peripheral arterial pressures is subject to error due to delay and modulation of the arterial pressure contour as it propagates from the ascending aorta. this error can be corrected by averaging the mean gradients derived from unaltered and temporally aligned simultaneous left ventricular-peripheral arterial pressure tracings. in 26 patients with aortic stenosis and simultaneous recordings of ascending aortic and femoral arterial pressure we compared this method with a simplified approach in which the peripheral arterial pressure is partially aligned by advancing it against the left ventricular pressure by 50% of the time delay of the simultaneously recorded upstrokes. gradients measured this way predicted the true aortic valve gradients (left ventricular-ascending aortic) with a mean difference of +1.1 mm hg (range = +10 to -5 mm hg). we recommend use of this simplified method of correction because it predicts true aortic valve gradient equally well as the averaging technique (r = 0.977 vs. 0.979) and requires half the time and effort.
testicular relapse in children with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia. the clinical course and other distinctive features of five children who developed a testicular relapse 4 months to 25 months after the diagnosis of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (anll) are described. the chief presenting feature at relapse was painless testicular enlargement, as is also seen in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who relapse in the testes. by french-american-british convention, the malignant cells were classified as m4 (myelomonoblastic) in four cases and m2 (myeloblastic) in one. all children received a course of multiagent reinduction chemotherapy and all but one received local irradiation to the testes. only one of these children, whose relapse was a late event after elective cessation of therapy, is a long-term survivor. a comparison with six previously published cases shows similar clinical characteristics and outcome. given the poor responses of such patients to conventional treatment, it seems worthwhile to consider the use of intensive reinduction chemotherapy with concomitant bilateral testicular irradiation followed by remission intensification and an autologous or allogenic marrow transplant.
growth factor expression after stroke. fibroblast growth factors are polypeptides with potent trophic effects on central nervous system cells. both acidic and basic forms of fibroblast growth factor are found in the mammalian brain. we have examined the expression of these factors after focal brain injury or stroke. after infarction of the lateral cerebral cortex in the mature rat brain, we found a twofold to threefold increase during the first 3 weeks after stroke in levels of fibroblast growth factors in tissue surrounding infarcts. this increase persisted for at least 2 months and appeared mainly to be due to increased levels of basic, but not acidic, fibroblast growth factor. because of its gliotrophic, angiogenic, and neuronotrophic properties, basic fibroblast growth factor may play an important role in the cascade of cellular reactions that contributes to wound healing and functional recovery after stroke.
late rupture of a superior intercostal artery following repair of aortic coarctation. having had surgical repair of aortic coarctation at the age of 12 years, and re-operation at the age of 19 years for stenosis at the site of the previous repair, a 29 years old man presented as an emergency with a 24 hour history of interscapular pain, haemoptysis and collapse. at thoracotomy he was found to have a ruptured superior intercostal artery which was ligated. spontaneous rupture of an intercostal artery has not been previously recorded.
a clinicopathologic study of the eyes in familial adenomatous polyposis with extracolonic manifestations (gardner's syndrome). the eyes of a 51-year-old woman with familial adenomatous polyposis and extracolonic manifestations (gardner's syndrome) were obtained postmortem and studied by light microscopy and by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. we found a generalized abnormality in melanogenesis of the retinal pigment epithelium and at least three types of pigmented lesions. the histologic findings in one type of lesion were consistent with congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium or benign pigmented nevus of the retinal pigment epithelium. the other two types of lesion were most consistent with hamartomatous malformations of the retinal pigment epithelium featuring cellular hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and rarely retinal invasion and formation of a minute mushroom-shaped tumor. these histopathologic findings indicate a generalized effect of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene on the retinal pigment epithelium. this oncogene, which is responsible for tumor formation in the gastrointestinal tract, soft tissues, bone, and other locations in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, also leads to a generalized defect in melanogenesis and focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium.
intrapleural cisplatin and cytarabine in the management of malignant pleural effusions: a lung cancer study group trial. malignant pleural effusions are a common and significant problem in patients with advanced malignancies. pleurodesis with tetracycline or other sclerosing agents is the usual treatment for malignant pleural effusions. in contrast to this approach, intrapleural chemotherapy has the potential advantage of treating the underlying malignancy in addition to controlling the effusion. intracavitary cisplatin-based chemotherapy, which is cytotoxic rather than sclerosing, has proven safe and effective via the intraperitoneal route in ovarian cancer and malignant mesothelioma. there has been little previous experience, however, with intrapleural cisplatin-based chemotherapy. as part of a planned series of trials in malignant mesothelioma, the lung cancer study group first evaluated intrapleural cisplatin and cytarabine in patients with malignant pleural effusions from a variety of solid tumors. from april 1986 to november 1987, 46 patients with cytologically proven, symptomatic, and previously untreated malignant pleural effusions were entered on study. a single dose of cisplatin 100 mg/m2 plus cytarabine 1,200 mg was instilled into the pleural space via a chest tube, which was then immediately removed. patients were evaluated for toxicity and response at 24 hours; 1, 2, and 3 weeks; and then monthly. no recurrence of the effusion was considered a complete response (cr). partial response (pr) was defined as a 75% or greater decrease in the amount of the effusion on serial chest radiographs. one patient experienced reversible grade 4 renal toxicity, four patients had grade 3 hematologic toxicity, and five patients had grade 3 cardiopulmonary toxicity. the overall response rate (cr plus pr) at 3 weeks was 49% (18 of 37 patients). the median length of response was 9 months for a cr and 5.1 months for a pr. the outcome of this trial was sufficiently encouraging that this regimen has been incorporated into subsequent trials for malignant pleural mesothelioma.
patterns of epidermal growth factor receptors in basal and squamous cell carcinoma. the presence of immunoreactive epidermal growth factor receptors in human skin tumors was investigated using the indirect immunoperoxidase technique. sixteen basal cell carcinomas and 11 squamous cell carcinomas were evaluated. all of the specimens studied were receptor positive. in 70% of the specimens there was prominent staining of the cell membranes. in 54% of the nodular basal cell carcinoma specimens there was increased staining at the periphery of the tumor cell masses.
sedation for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy: results of a nationwide survey. a postal questionnaire inquiring about routine sedation and premedication practice for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was sent to 1048 doctors. of 665 appropriate returns, 81% were from consultant physicians and surgeons. most endoscopists (90%) reported using an intravenous benzodiazepine for at least three quarters of endoscopies and 54% of physicians and 69% of surgeons always did so. midazolam was the intravenous sedative used by a third of all respondents and 13% also used an additional intravenous agent, usually pethidine. over the previous two years a total of 119 respiratory arrests, 37 cardiac arrests, and 52 deaths were identified. adverse outcomes were reported more frequently by consultant physicians, by those who 'titrated' the intravenous sedative, and by those who used an additional intravenous agent, but were reported equally frequently by endoscopists using midazolam and endoscopists using diazepam. there is an urgent need for a prospective study to identify the circumstances and risk factors associated with adverse outcomes related to endoscopy.
prospective study of the frequency and size distribution of polyps missed by colonoscopy. an important determinant in interpreting the results of colorectal polyp chemoprevention trials is the rate of polyps missed during colonscopic examination. we prospectively examined 90 patients by tandem colonoscopy performed by two alternating examiners. in 69 (76.7%) patients, 221 neoplastic lesions were documented histologically. of a total of 58 lesions detected in 31 patients, no neoplastic lesion greater than or equal to 10 mm in size was missed; 16% of diminutive (less than or equal to 5 mm) neoplastic polyps and 12.3% of medium-sized (6-9 mm) neoplastic polyps were missed by the first examiner. we conclude that an experienced colonoscopist will miss about 15% of colorectal neoplastic polyps less than 10 mm in size in the setting of adequate bowel preparation. large (greater than or equal to 10 mm) polyps were rarely missed, however, with the "miss" rate in our study equal to 0, with a 95% confidence limit of 4.64%.
fasciculations due to verapamil in a patient with neuropathy. a patient with pre-existing peripheral neuropathy developed generalized fasciculations under verapamil which ceased after discontinuation of the drug. it is suggested that the increase in acetylcholine (ach) release at the neuromuscular junction by verapamil may trigger fasciculation in the state of regeneration at ach-sensitive sites of axon terminals and immature axon sprouts.
dynamic cardiomyoplasty in chronic chagas' heart disease: clinicopathological data. we report a 44-year-old man with chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy who underwent latissimus dorsi dynamic cardiomyoplasty and died 4 months later. the clinicopathological findings are discussed, and the literature is reviewed.
increased cholecystectomy rates in saudi arabia gallstones have become increasingly prevalent in saudi arabia, where cholecystectomy is now one of the commonest major abdominal operations. 2854 people underwent cholecystectomy in the 14 hospitals of the country's eastern province in the years 1977 to 1986. during this period the overall frequency of cholecystectomy increased by 978%, a finding not explained by the 67% increase in population or the 87% increase in other operations. simultaneously, the average daily individual consumption of total calories, fat, and sugar increased by 81%, 197%, and 164%, respectively, and consumption of high-fibre grain fell by 75%. this striking increase in the frequency of cholecystectomy, which presumably reflects the incidence of gallstones, cannot be explained by demographic changes and seems more closely linked to the concomitant changes in dietary habits.
perianal abscess and fistula-in-ano in children. the authors present a retrospective review of 40 pediatric patients with perianal abscess and/or fistula-in-ano. the total patient population could be divided clinically into 2 broad groups. the first group consisted of 22 infants younger than 2 years of age, all of whom were males, and 10 of whom presented with recurrences after previous incision and drainage. of the 14 infants presenting with an abscess, in 12 (85.7 percent), a fistula-in-ano was discovered at surgery. in contrast, in the group of 18 children older than 2 years of age, there were 7 females and 11 males, and fistulas were identified in only 7 of 13 patients (54.8 percent) who presented with abscesses. surgical treatment consisted of examination under anesthesia and a diligent search for a fistulous tract. abscesses were primarily saucerized and fistulotomy and cryptotomy of the confluent crypt was performed if a fistulous tract was identified. the only recurrences with this form of treatment occurred in the two immunocompromised patients.
incidence of polymyositis-dermatomyositis: a 20-year study of hospital diagnosed cases in allegheny county, pa 1963-1982. the incidence of hospital diagnosed polymyositis-dermatomyositis (pm-dm) among residents of pittsburgh and allegheny county, pa was determined from 1963 to 1982. medical records of all allegheny county hospitals were searched for patients diagnosed pm-dm, and each accepted case was reviewed and verified by a physician, according to specified criteria. direct age adjusted incidence rates were computed for race and sex, as new cases/million population/year, with the 1970 allegheny county population as the standard. one hundred seventy-seven cases were identified during this 20-year survey for a total annual incidence of 5.5/million population. incidence more than tripled during 1973-1982 compared to the first decade of study, with the greatest increase occurring in black women. overall, the female to male incidence ratio was 2.2:1, but during the childbearing years (ages 15-44) this ratio increased to greater than 5:1 in both races. detection of pm-dm is increasing, as shown by temporal trends. although our series has significantly more adult pm and less dm and overlap cases than other published studies, annual incidence is similar to that reported in other locales.
intraoperative coronary artery endarterectomy with excimer laser. compared with continuous-wave lasers, excimer lasers exhibit several in vitro advantages: nonthermal ablation process and linear relation between the number of pulses and the depth of the crater. a 308 nm, 20 nsec pulse duration, 1 to 5 repetition rate laser was specifically designed for clinical application. at the time of cardiopulmonary bypass in 10 symptomatic patients, before bypass grafting, a 1 mm diameter core specifically ultraviolet-tipped fiberoptic scope was introduced via the coronary arteriotomy and placed upstream (seven patients) and downstream (three patients) in contact with the stenosis. laser power was increasingly delivered up to the clearing of the stenosis or occlusion. quality of angioplasty was controlled by calibration of the neolumen, cardioplegic solution output through the laser-treated segment, and an eighth day or sixth month coronary arteriogram. in the first three patients studied on the eighth day, all laser-treated coronary artery segments showed an early parallel-linked patent neolumen despite competitive bypass graft flow. in the patients studied after 6 months, all recanalized segments were patent except one; in one patient the venous graft was occluded, but the upstream laser angioplasty was patent. the main limitation of the method lies in the fact that laser coronary recanalization is confined to the fiber core diameter. we conclude that (1) excimer laser angioplasty may be safe and efficient during surgical procedure and (2) as catheter flexibility remains the most critical problem, we are now assuming an appropriate tool with a multifiber system that is suitable for intraoperative as well as percutaneous routes.
calcium entry blockade and adrenergic vascular reactivity in hypertensives: differences between nicardipine and diltiazem. the interference of nicardipine and diltiazem infused into the brachial artery at systemically ineffective rates, with the forearm vascular response to graded exogenous norepinephrine, was evaluated in hypertensive patients. nicardipine (1 and 3 micrograms/dl forearm tissue/min in both absence and presence of propranolol) increased forearm blood flow (venous plethysmography) and antagonized dose dependently the vasoconstrictor effect of norepinephrine, suggesting that functional alpha-antagonism may participate in the vasodilating and possibly the antihypertensive effect of the drug. on the contrary, no antagonism but rather potentiation of the responses to norepinephrine occurred after diltiazem (0.5 and 1 microgram/dl forearm tissue/min). because intra-arterial propranolol abolished that potentiating action of the drug, whereas the local vasodilation to isoproterenol was clearly reduced, diltiazem probably interfered with beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated vasorelaxing mechanisms in human forearm arterioles. the data further stress the heterogeneity of calcium entry blockers in humans.
impact of active immunisation against enteritis necroticans in papua new guinea. enteritis necroticans, known locally as pigbel, has been a major cause of illness and death among children in the highlands of papua new guinea. after a successful trial of active immunisation against the beta toxin of the causative organism, clostridium perfringens type c, immunisation of children was begun in 1980. the effects of the immunisation programme on pigbel admissions in 3 of the 5 major highland hospitals were assessed. in each of the centres studied the proportion of admissions due to enteritis necroticans dropped significantly after immunisation was introduced (p less than 0.001) and hospital admissions for pigbel in 1984-86, when immunisation was well established, were less than one fifth of previous figures.
intrarectal ultrasonography in rectal cancer staging and in the evaluation of pelvic disease. clinical uses of intrarectal ultrasound. accurate preoperative staging of a rectal cancer patient may impact heavily on subsequent management. this study attempts to evaluate the accuracy of intrarectal ultrasonography (irus) in staging rectal cancers compared to clinical and pathologic examination. in addition the accuracy of irus was assessed in a group of patients with uncertain pelvic-perirectal disease after a negative physical examination. in a prospective manner, 52 cancer patients were staged with digital exam and irus. accuracy rates were 48% and 83%, respectively, compared to pathologic evaluation in assessing wall penetration, and irus identified positive lymph nodes in 12 of 17 cases. in patients with pelvic disease, irus corresponded with pathologic diagnosis in 15 of 17 cases and revealed new information in 6 patients. intrarectal ultrasonography appears to be the most accurate imaging technique for staging rectal cancers and demonstrates promise in the evaluation of perirectal-pelvic disease.
phenotypic variability in glutaric aciduria type i: report of fourteen cases in five canadian indian kindreds. we describe 14 patients with glutaric aciduria type 1 in five canadian indian kindreds living in manitoba and northwest ontario. the patients had marked clinical variability of the disease, even within families. eight followed the typical clinical course of normal early growth and development until the onset of neurologic abnormalities, often precipitated by infection, between 6 weeks and 7 1/2 months of age. five patients had early developmental delay; one was thought to be normal until 8 years of age. three patients died, seven are severely mentally and physically handicapped, and four have only mild mental retardation or incoordination. six patients had macrocephaly in the neonatal period. computed tomography was done for 12 patients, and findings were abnormal in 11. glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid were detected in increased amounts in the urine of all patients, but the concentrations were much lower than those in most other reported patients. glutaryl coenzyme a dehydrogenase activity in skin fibroblasts, interleukin-2-dependent lymphocytes, or both, ranged from 0% to 13% of control values. there was no correlation between clinical severity and urine glutaric acid concentration or level of residual enzyme activity. we recommend that organic acid analysis of the urine be done in patients with unexplained cerebral palsy-like disorders, especially if the computed tomographic scan is abnormal. if there is suspicion of glutaric aciduria, glutaryl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase should be measured in fibroblasts or lymphocytes even if glutaric acid is not increased in the urine.
acceleration of luteinizing hormone pulse frequency in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea by dopaminergic blockade. a constellation of neuroendocrine secretory aberrations, including reduced lh pulse frequency and prl concentrations, has been documented in women with functional hypothalamic amenorrhea (fha). as pituitary function was preserved, these aberrations were attributed to an alteration in hypothalamic neuromodulation. to investigate the participation of the dopaminergic system in the genesis of the reduced lh pulse frequency and suppressed prl levels in fha, we studied six women with fha and six cyclic women in the early follicular phase by obtaining blood samples at 15-min intervals for 48 h during sequential 24-h infusions of saline and a dopamine receptor blocker, metoclopramide (mcp). a hypothalamic vs. pituitary site of action was inferred from the pulsatility characteristics. mcp consistently elicited an increase in the lh pulse frequency in the women with fha [7.3 +/- 1.2 (+/- se) to 10.5 +/- 1.3 pulses/24 h; p less than 0.005]. in contrast, the eumenorrheic women did not show a significant change in lh pulse frequency in response to mcp (15.2 +/- 1.0 to 14.3 +/- 0.9 pulses/24 h). while the prl concentrations were significantly lower in the fha group during the infusion of saline (p less than 0.001) and mcp (p less than 0.005), the relative increases in prl during mcp were similar in both groups. the acceleration of lh pulse frequency by blockade of dopamine receptors implies that there is increased hypothalamic dopaminergic inhibition of gnrh pulse frequency in women with fha.
clustering of atherogenic behaviors in coffee drinkers. we studied the clustering of coffee consumption and selected atherogenic behaviors in older adults living in a southern california community. men were somewhat more likely to drink caffeinated coffee while women were more likely to drink decaffeinated coffee. in men, but not women, caffeinated coffee drinking decreased with age and decaffeinated coffee drinking increased. caffeinated coffee drinkers drank more alcohol, consumed more dietary saturated fats and cholesterol, were more likely to be current smokers and less likely to be current exercisers than were non-coffee drinkers. smoking and exercise also showed a dose-response relationship to the amount of caffeinated coffee consumed. risk factor levels among drinkers of decaffeinated coffee were more like those of caffeinated coffee than non-drinkers. these data illustrate the clustering of atherogenic behaviors with coffee drinking and highlight their potential importance in interpreting the growing body of literature about coffee and health.
congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system: a new clinical classification. the numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician's understanding of the condition. the clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment. future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities.
the neuroradiology of visual disturbances. the neuroradiology of visual deficits has advanced dramatically in recent years. plain film evaluation of the orbit and face remains useful in the emergency room for the evaluation of trauma. high-resolution coronal ct remains the method of choice in the assessment of serious injury to the orbit and in cases of penetrating metallic foreign body. the contrast-enhanced orbital ct provides useful information in cases of tumor and infection and when the bones of the face or skull are involved. mri has largely replaced ct in the search for brain infarct, brain tumor, and cerebral inflammatory and demyelinating processes. mri is the study of choice in all cases of sellar and parasellar disease. it offers high-resolution images in any plane. gtpa enhancement has provided additional information from mri without significant risk. the final selection of an imaging modality should be based upon the clinical presentation and any physical limitations of the patient.
alterations in brain phosphate metabolite concentrations in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected individuals often demonstrate neuropsychiatric impairment; however, it is unclear how brain metabolism may be altered in such patients. we used in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy to noninvasively assess brain energy and phospholipid metabolism by measuring brain concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (atp), phosphocreatine (pcr), and inorganic phosphate (pi), as well as phospholipid compounds and intracellular ph. in study 1, 17 hiv-seropositive men with varying degrees of neuropsychiatric impairment and six control subjects were studied. localized spectra were obtained from a heterogeneous 5 x 5 x 5-cm volume of interest (voi). patients with hiv infection had a significantly lower atp/pi ratio and a trend for a lower pcr/pi ratio than did the control group. in addition, the atp/pi and pcr/pi ratios were both significantly negatively correlated with overall severity of neuropsychiatric impairment. in study 2, three hiv-seropositive men with neuropsychiatric impairment were compared with 11 hiv-seronegative men. localized phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectra were obtained from two relatively homogeneous vois: (1) a predominantly white matter voi, and (2) a predominantly subcortical gray matter voi. the three hiv-infected patients demonstrated significantly decreased atp and pcr concentrations in the white matter voi. these results suggest that hiv infection of the brain may impair brain cellular oxidative metabolism and that the degree of metabolic compromise may be related to the severity of neuropsychiatric impairment.
management of aortic insufficiency in chronic aortic dissection. from january 1980 to december 1988, 44 patients with chronic aortic dissection and aortic insufficiency underwent operation. this group of patients was analyzed to evaluate the outcome of those in whom the aortic valve was preserved compared with those having valve replacement. the overall preoperative characteristics of the two groups were similar except for the incidence of marfan's syndrome. valve replacement was the elected procedure in patients with valve degeneration or annuloaortic ectasia. in patients with leaflet prolapse with or without an enlarged annulus, a plastic procedure was used. in 48% of the patients, it was possible to preserve the valve. there were five hospital deaths (11%): three were due to low-output syndrome, one was due to bleeding, and one was due to neurological complications. there were two late deaths (5%). follow-up of the 37 surviving patients ranged from 2 to 108 months (mean follow-up, 18 months). seventy-eight percent of the survivors were in functional class i and the others were in class ii. two patients in whom the aortic valve was preserved had mild aortic insufficiency. three patients with bioprostheses underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve dysfunction. one patient who had aortoplasty and an aortic valve plastic procedure was seen with redissection and aortic insufficiency after 60 months and was reoperated on using the bentall technique. the actuarial survival curves showed that patients who underwent valvoplasty had higher, but not significantly higher, survival rates than the valve replacement patients.
enhanced expression of c-myc and h-ras oncogenes in letterer-siwe disease. a sequential study using colorimetric in situ hybridization. tissues from two patients with disseminated histiocytosis x (letterer-siwe disease) in which histiocytosis x cells exhibited histologic and cytologic features of malignancy were evaluated by in situ hybridization with the use of biotinylated nucleic acid probes to c-myc and h-ras oncogenes. enhanced expression of these oncogenes was observed in mononucleated and multinucleated cells of histiocytosis x in the terminal proliferative phase but not in the early quiescent phase of letterer-siwe disease in both patients. our findings indicate that deregulation of c-myc and h-ras in histiocytosis x are late events that likely confer a selective growth advantage to histiocytosis x cells.
myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus. case report. the case of a myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus is presented. the clinical course is reported, and the frequency of the lesion, diagnostic workup, histopathology, and surgical therapy are discussed.
interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy. it has been estimated that 20 million people in the united states have gallstone disease. the choice of the optimal management strategy for a patient with symptomatic gallstones in the 1990s will take into account the clinical status of the patient, the characteristics of the gallstones, and the patient's preference. only patients whose doctors understand the advantages and disadvantages of the newer methods can make properly informed choices. when interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy are being contemplated, one approach is to first consider the patient's clinical presentation (acute or nonacute) and then their risk of death after cholecystectomy (low or high). figure 5 shows an algorithmic approach to the management of gallbladder stones based on this concept. this algorithm also can be used as a framework for discussion of treatment options with any individual patient.
vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension: a case report. a case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported. preoperatively, the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope. after total removal of the vagal tumor, her systemic blood pressure returned to normal.
effects of vasopressin on portal pressure during hemorrhage from esophageal varices. vasopressin is often used to treat variceal hemorrhage. however, its efficacy is uncertain, and its portal hemodynamic effects in this setting are unknown. eleven patients with alcoholic liver disease and bleeding varices were given vasopressin (0.2 u/min for the first hour, then 0.4 u/min for 24 hours). portal pressure was monitored using an indwelling hepatic vein balloon catheter. seventeen patients with variceal bleeding who remained stable over 26 hours of initial treatment with crystalloid and blood products served as a comparison group. vasopressin infusion (0.2 u/min) produced a significant decrease in wedged hepatic venous pressure, hepatic venous pressure gradient (wedged minus free hepatic venous pressure), and heart rate. increases in the rate of infusion did not produce further decreases in the parameters measured, but the changes were sustained over the course of the infusion. hemodynamics remained stable in the control group. portal pressure did not increase when vasopressin was abruptly discontinued in the 3 patients in whom postinfusion measurements were made. vasopressin retains its portal hypotensive effects in the setting of variceal hemorrhage. tachyphylaxis does not develop over 26 hours, and a "rebound" increase in portal pressure probably does not occur when the infusion is discontinued.
polyglucosan body disease. adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases. all had signs of peripheral neuropathy, upper motor neuron signs, and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems. dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases. we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features. electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy. somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal. sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies. although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific, the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis. branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal. hence, a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known.
surgical aspects of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis. sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis (sep) is associated with the administration of beta-blocking agents as well as continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. the predisposing factors in the latter group are recurrent peritonitis, presence of acetate in the dialysate, and antiseptics used during bag exchanges. we report a case of sep following chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and review the literature on this benign yet potentially lethal condition. sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis frequently leads to intestinal obstruction, small-bowel necrosis, enterocutaneous fistulas, and malnutrition. there is a high incidence of anastomotic failure when a resection and primary intestinal anastomosis is performed in patients with sep. although sep is not commonly reported in the surgical literature, its importance to surgeons is indicated by the fact that the overall mortality rate is close to 60% in patients with sep who develop surgical complications.
development of language in six hemispherectomized patients. the development of language skills in the isolated right hemisphere was investigated by comparing the performance of 3 left hemispherectomized with that of the 3 right hemispherectomized patients and three groups of control subjects on baseline clinical measures of language and on production and judgement of morphological markers. the initial brain insult in the hemispherectomy patients of each group had occurred either during early, middle or late childhood. the left hemispherectomy patients were severely impaired in language processing across all three stages of language development. the consequences of a right hemisphere insult on language development were more restricted, with deleterious effects being apparent only in the case in which the lesion was acquired during early childhood.
chondrosarcoma complicating total hip arthroplasty in maffucci's syndrome. a 70-year-old woman who was followed for 60 years for maffucci's syndrome required a total hip arthroplasty (tha) of the right hip for degenerative arthritis. this did not relieve pain. three years later, chondrosarcoma of the femur developed around the femoral component and was fatal. the roentgenographic changes after the tha were incorrectly interpreted as being caused by infection.
amenorrhea. amenorrhea, the lack of menstruation, is a gynecologic disorder that may arise from a variety of causes. if a logical and orderly schema is followed, the correct diagnosis and appropriate management plan can be formulated.
hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. a prospective, consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from grades 1 to v according to the classification of hunt and hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) and surgery. sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up. twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the sah and surgery. the mean time from the sah to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days (day of the sah) to 2 years (mean, 6.7 months). the seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients (31%) and as generalized in 20 patients (69%). all patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure. the risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were, in order of importance: a history of hypertension; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan; and the duration of coma after the ictus. of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension, 17 (20.0%) developed epilepsy. only 12 (5.4%) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures. the difference between the groups was significant (p = 0.0001). computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after the sah and surgery. postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan (p = 0.0005).
vascular renin and hypertension. uptake versus synthesis. conventional radioimmunoassay techniques demonstrated in the aortic wall a renin-like activity which is derived from plasma but has a longer half-life than plasma renin. blood pressure elevation after renin injection into nephrectomized rats correlates better with aortic renin than with plasma renin. vascular and other extrarenal tissue can also synthesize renin. using a ribonuclease protection technique for the detection of renin messenger rna we have been able to demonstrate that a wide variety of extrarenal tissues contain the renin message. in at least two of these, the brain and the liver, renin messenger rna levels are unaffected by changes in dietary salt or by changes in systemic blood pressure. functional studies using isolated human resistance vessels also demonstrate the presence of renin-like activity by a contractile response to added renin substrate. it is suggested that extrarenal tissues therefore contain renin-like activity derived both from uptake and from local synthesis. these systems may be regulated in different ways and may carry out different functions.
malignant rhabdoid tumor of the liver. a distinct clinicopathologic entity. a malignant rhabdoid tumor occurring as a primary hepatic neoplasm in a six-month-old white infant is reported. it was treated by an attempt at total resection involving right hepatic lobectomy and by chemotherapy with cis-platinum, vp-16, and adriamycin. despite this, recurrence of the tumor resulted in the girl's death within three months. the neoplasm showed typical light microscopic features of malignant rhabdoid tumor as well as filamentous cytoplasmic inclusions by electron microscopic examination and staining for both cytokeratin and vimentin by immunohistochemistry. the classic clinicopathologic features of this tumor support the concept that malignant rhabdoid tumors similar to those of the kidney may occur in extrarenal sites.
do we need another antihypertensive agent? the factors to be considered in selecting antihypertensive agents have traditionally centered around balancing efficacy against adverse side effects. the former can be achieved by a variety of agents alone or in combination. the latter not only involves safety but is also concerned with whether an otherwise safe agent is tolerated by the patient so compliance with the treatment regimen can be achieved. a relatively new consideration is how antihypertensive agents affect other disease states that may or may not be associated with hypertension. for example, how a drug may affect diabetes, gout, myocardial hypertrophy, atherosclerosis, and coronary events must be evaluated. these concerns taken together answer the question of why yet another antihypertensive agent may be needed in the pharmacologic armamentarium.
intraocular pressure and the rate of visual field loss in chronic open-angle glaucoma. we measured the rate of change of visual field threshold values over time (mean follow-up, 44.9 +/- 17.4 months) by trend analysis in 40 eyes of 40 patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma. twenty-eight eyes had stable visual fields, and two eyes had significant visual field improvement. ten eyes had significant visual field deterioration and showed a correlation between indices of intraocular pressure (standard error of the mean, p = .02; standard deviation, p = .04; and range, p = .05) and the rate of visual field loss in the superonasal region of the visual field, such that the greater the variation of intraocular pressure the greater the rate of loss. the group losing visual fields had a higher mean visual field threshold value and significantly less optic disk pallor and cupping at the start of the study than the stable visual field group. thus, a significant rate of visual field loss occurred at an earlier stage of the disease and showed a correlation with intraocular pressure in this stage.
surgical treatment of active native valve endocarditis. a report is presented of 24 patients (23 male), mean age 38 years, who underwent surgery for active native valve endocarditis of the left heart in 1975-1988. the aortic valve was affected in all patients, and also the mitral valve in five. pre-existing aortic valve disorder was present in 17 cases (13 congenitally bicuspid 4 rheumatic affection). there were five hospital deaths (20.8%). staphylococci as causal organism and extensive infection predicted the highest mortality and morbidity. the mean follow-up time was 39.7 (range 2-114) months. two reoperations because of prosthetic valve dehiscence revealed endocarditis of the implanted valve. strong correlation was found between favourable postoperative course and rapid normalization of c-reactive protein levels, which did not fall in patients with persistent infection. early surgery is recommended if the course of bacterial endocarditis is severely complicated.
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma. the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient, and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum. the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues, the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238, and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99. this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously, and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank, embl, or nbrf databases, including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein (cdr34) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody. unexpectedly, the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue, the intestine.
continuous infusion carboplatin on a 21-day schedule: a phase i and pharmacokinetic study. a phase i study with continuous infusion carboplatin for 21 days every 6 weeks using a venous access port and portable pump was performed over a dose range of 12 to 32 mg/m2/d, with increments of 2 mg/m2/d. forty-four patients received 107 courses (median, two; range, one to nine). world health organization (who) grade iii/iv leukopenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in one of seven patients at 30 mg/m2/d, and in two of six and four of six patients at 32 mg/m2/d. cumulative platelet depression was found at dose levels of 28 mg/m2/d or more. median glomerular filtration rate (gfr) and effective renal plasma flow, monitored by radioisotope clearances at doses greater than or equal to 20 mg/m2/d, decreased 8.2% (p less than .05) and 10.9% (p less than .01) after two courses. there was a relationship (r = .50, p less than .0002) between the percentage of platelet depression and gfr. no other toxicity was observed. of the 17 patients who were evaluable, one complete response and four partial responses were observed. in addition, six patients had stable disease. pharmacokinetic analysis of total and ultrafiltrable platinum (ufpt) was performed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. steady-state plasma levels for ufpt were reached after 8 hours. these levels could be detected from the 20 mg/m2/d dose. during steady state, carboplatin dose and ufpt plasma levels were not correlated, but steady-state ufpt and gfr (r = -.27, p less than .05) were. twenty-four percent of total platinum (pt) was present as ufpt during steady state (x = 160 +/- 10 micrograms/l). total body clearance of ufpt exceeded gfr 2.2 times. mean area under the curve (auc) for ufpt during continuous infusion was 4,921.8 +/- 301.72 mg.min/l. for total pt, steady-state plasma levels were not reached; total pt plasma levels increased between day 7 and day 21 (p less than .0001). there was a significant relation between total pt serum levels day 7, 14, and 21 and the drug dose administered. immunohistochemical analysis of dna-bound pt in leukocytes showed a linear increase from day 7 to day 14 to day 21 (r = .97) between dna-bound pt and duration of infusion in individual patients. the maximum-tolerable dose of carboplatin is 30 mg/m2/d for 21 days (total dose 630 mg/m2) and is recommended for phase ii studies.
vasopressin and oxytocin responses to illusory self-motion and nausea in man. vasopressin and oxytocin are nonapeptides secreted from the neurohypophysis; increases in vasopressin are associated with nausea and vomiting in some, but not all, species. our aim was to determine whether plasma vasopressin and oxytocin levels were altered in healthy volunteers who did or did not develop nausea during vection, an optokinetic stimulus which produces the illusion of self-motion. vection was produced by rotating a drum with an inner surface of black and white vertical stripes around the seated stationary subject. gastric myoelectrical activity was recorded continuously throughout the experiment with electrodes positioned on the abdominal surface. plasma samples were obtained before vection and after drum rotation stopped when nausea and tachygastria were present. vasopressin and oxytocin were extracted from plasma and quantified by ria. during vection six subjects reported nausea and developed gastric dysrhythmias; six other subjects had no nausea and remained in normal 3-cpm myoelectrical rhythms. vasopressin and oxytocin values before vection were similar in each group of subjects. one minute after vection stopped, plasma vasopressin levels were significantly greater (p less than 0.05) in subjects experiencing nausea and tachygastrias (35.4 +/- 26.7 pmol/l) than in those without symptoms (2.7 +/- 0.47 pmol/l). oxytocin levels were unchanged by either vection or nausea. it is concluded that 1) vasopressin, not oxytocin, neurons in the magnocellular-neurohypophyseal system are activated during vection-induced nausea and gastric dysrhythmias; and 2) illusory self-motion may be used safely to study the neuroendocrine responses to brain-gut interactions and nausea in man.
gallstone lithotripsy: relevant physical principles and technical issues. a basic understanding of shock wave generation is essential for the radiologist who performs gallstone lithotripsy. shock waves differ from ordinary acoustic waves in that they have a rapid rise time, a positive pressure component that gives rise to compressive forces approaching 1,000 atm, and a low-amplitude sustained negative pressure (rarefactive) component. shock waves are created by means of three different types of shock wave generators: spark-gap, electromagnetic, and piezoelectric. the authors describe and compare these three types of shock wave generators with regard to equipment selection. regardless of how shock waves are generated, they share common interactions with tissue. these interactions are reviewed along with the proposed mechanisms of stone fragmentation.
changes in left ventricular diastolic performance after aortic balloon valvuloplasty: acute and late effects to evaluate acute and follow-up changes in left ventricular diastolic performance, simultaneous digital left ventriculography and micromanometry were performed in 49 patients undergoing aortic balloon valvuloplasty. all patients improved symptomatically after valvuloplasty, and 26 returned 6.3 +/- 1.5 months later for follow-up catheterization. immediately after valvuloplasty, aortic valve area increased (before 0.5 +/- 0.2 versus after 0.8 +/- 0.2 cm2, p less than 0.01), cardiac output (before 4.3 +/- 1.2 versus after 4.4 +/- 1.3 liters/min) and ejection fraction (before 51 +/- 18% versus after 52 +/- 17%) did not change and diastolic indexes worsened, signified by a decrease in peak filling rate (before 247 +/- 80 versus after 226 +/- 78 ml/s, p less than 0.01) and increase in the time constant of isovolumetric relaxation (tau) (before 78 +/- 29 versus after 96 +/- 40 ms, p less than 0.01) and the modulus of chamber stiffness (before 0.107 +/- 0.071 versus after 0.141 +/- 0.083, p less than 0.01). at follow-up catheterization, 16 patients continued to have symptomatic improvement (group 1) and 10 had recurrence of symptoms (group 2). aortic valve area, cardiac output and ejection fraction at follow-up catheterization in both groups were similar and unchanged from values before valvuloplasty.
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman. the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed.
coronary lesion morphology in acute myocardial infarction: demonstration of early remodeling after streptokinase treatment coronary lesion morphology was analyzed in 72 patients 1 to 8 days after streptokinase treatment for acute myocardial infarction and compared with lesion morphology in a control group of 24 patients with stable angina. in the streptokinase group the infarct-related artery was patent in 55 patients (76%). compared with stenoses in the stable angina group, there were no differences in the stenosis length, severity, calcification or in the proportion located at an acute bend or at a branch point. however, lesions in the streptokinase group were more often irregular (p less than 0.005) and eccentric (p less than 0.01), had a shoulder (p less than 0.0001), globular filling defects (p less than 0.01), linear filling defects (p less than 0.00005) and contrast staining (p less than 0.05). plaque ulceration index was higher in the streptokinase than in the stable angina group (6.2 +/- 7.9 versus 3.5 +/- 3.4, p less than 0.001). of the 72 streptokinase-treated patients, 35 were maintained on heparin infusion until angioplasty 2 to 10 days later. at repeat angiography before angioplasty, globular lesion filling defects seen in eight patients had disappeared, whereas linear filling defects persisted in 7 of 14 cases. fewer lesions were irregular (p less than 0.0001) and the ulceration index decreased from 7.4 +/- 10.4 to 3.0 +/- 1.6 (p less than 0.001). these data show that the lesion in the infarct-related artery after streptokinase treatment is irregular and often associated with filling defects, perhaps corresponding to plaque fissuring and intraluminal thrombosis.
ultrastructural evidence of a merocrine secretion in the human endolymphatic sac. the results of a light and transmission electron microscopic analysis of an endolymphatic sac (es) from a patient suffering from episodic vertigo, tinnitus, and hearing loss are presented. a biopsy of the intraosseous portion of the es was obtained during a translabyrinthine approach to section the vestibular nerve in the internal acoustic meatus. the material consisted mainly of tubular epithelial structures filled with heavily stained material. pathologically dilated and degranulated rough endoplasmic reticuli and disaggregation of polyribosomes with accumulation of solitary ribosomes in the cytosol and endoplasmic reticulum suggested a disturbed epithelial cell protein synthesis. ultrastructural evidence of an increased merocrine secretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the es was noted. this made it possible to analyze the presumed intracellular secretory pathways. an increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes and monocytes was observed. since the inner ear had been subjected to surgical intervention before the vestibular nerve section, no conclusions can be drawn as to whether the patient's symptoms were related to the disturbed protein metabolism and hypersecretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the es. the findings support earlier experimental results that indicate that the es has not only a resorptive function but also a secretory one.
simultaneous measurement of myocardial perfusion and ventricular function during exercise from a single injection of technetium-99m sestamibi in coronary artery disease. new radiopharmaceuticals permit simultaneous assessment of myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function using a single tracer injection. the purpose of this study was to quantitate the relation between myocardial perfusion and function at rest and during exercise in patients with documented coronary artery disease (cad). a rest first-pass radionuclide angiocardiogram (rna) was recorded in 51 patients with cad during injection of 10 mci of technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi, and tomographic perfusion images were obtained 60 minutes later. a treadmill test was then performed, and on attainment of an exercise end point a second first-pass rna was recorded with 30 mci of tc-99m sestamibi. tomographic images reflecting myocardial perfusion during exercise were obtained 1 hour later. tomographic perfusion defect size, quantified using modifications of the cedars-sinai program, correlated directly with end-systolic volume and inversely with ejection fraction at rest and during exercise. however, perfusion defect size often varied widely in patients with similar left ventricular function. this independence between measurements of perfusion and function suggests that simultaneous assessment of the 2 physiologic variables could improve the diagnostic and prognostic information of radionuclide tests.
susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine tcr alpha and myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14. this study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3 (cvb3)-induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model. an autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease (amd) gene (possibly more than one gene), which determined susceptibility to cvb3-induced chronic myocarditis in the a/j and dba/2j inbred mouse strains, was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14. data from both the axb/bxa recombinant inbred (ri) strains and the b10.d2(57n) h-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship. analysis of the axb/bxa ri strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the np-2, tcr alpha, and myhc alpha loci.
soft tissue sarcoma with additional anaplastic components. a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 27 cases. this clinicopathologic study concerns 27 cases of "dedifferentiated" soft tissue sarcoma (dsts), including 14 liposarcomas, six leiomyosarcomas, five chondrosarcomas, and two rhabdomyosarcomas. in addition, the authors conducted an immunohistochemical survey of 23 cases and an electron microscopic examination of three. the findings were compared with observations of 32 cases of de novo malignant fibrous histiocytoma (mfh). all tumors contained additional distinct anaplastic portions indistinguishable from mfh under conventional light microscopy, ultrastructurally, and in cases of immunoreactivity for alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and alpha-1-antitrypsin and on lectin histochemical findings for ricinus communis agglutinin and concanavalin agglutinin. the desmin reactivity present in anaplastic portions of 14 dsts and in eight de novo mfh is taken to mean that myofibroblasts are present in these tumors. the anaplastic components of dsts are presumed to represent the proliferation of another clone of undifferentiated mesenchymal cells that fail to differentiate along any specific lineage other than fibroblast-like cells, histiocyte-like cells, and myofibroblasts. nineteen patients died of tumor and four are alive and well 1.6, 1.7, 2.1, and 5.2 years after the initial treatment, respectively.
recognition of hypertension and abnormal blood pressure burden with ambulatory blood pressure recordings in type i diabetes mellitus. ambulatory blood pressure (ambp) measurements were obtained at 20-min intervals for 24 h in 25 subjects with insulin-dependent (type i) diabetes mellitus and 21 control subjects. the diabetic patients had normal kidney function (glomerular filtration rate 112.1 +/- 7.2 ml.min-1.1.73 m-2, renal plasma flow 459.0 +/- 23.4 ml.min-1.1.73 m-2) and were normotensive according to standard sphygmomanometer examinations. mean +/- se ambp (systolic/diastolic in mmhg) measurements in diabetic patients (24 h, 131.7/77.2 +/- 2.9/1.8; 0600-2200, 132.3/78.4 +/- 2.9/3.4; 2200-0600, 125.1/75.7 +/- 3.9/3.4) significantly exceeded control values during all times (24 h, 121.8/70.3 +/- 2.9/1.9; 0600-2200, 120.7/71.8 +/- 2.6/2.0; 2200-0600, 108.2/61.5 +/- 6.6/2.7). mean 24-h ambp exceeded 135/85 mmhg in 49% of diabetic patients. the same threshold of 135/85 mmhg was used to determine the prevalence of abnormal measurements per time period (pressure burden). pressure burden was increased twofold in diabetic patients compared with control subjects. mean ambp was significantly reduced at night in control subjects but not in diabetic patients. changes in blood pressure were not related to kidney function in diabetic patients. ambp recordings uncovered an increased prevalence of abnormal mean blood pressure, increased pressure burden, and a lack of diurnal variation of blood pressure in subjects with type i diabetes mellitus. these findings have important implications for early intervention strategies in diabetes mellitus because ambp recordings correlate well with end-organ damage.
improved cannulation method for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. extracorporeal membrane oxygenation has been shown to be useful for patients in reversible cardiogenic shock. effective arterial cannulation techniques for infants have been developed that are simple to use and require minimal subsequent vascular repair or reconstruction after removal. groin cannulation in adults frequently requires bidirectional arterial cannulation to ensure adequate distal perfusion as well as frequent complex arterial repairs after discontinuation. we describe a simple arterial cannulation technique using a single right-angle, high-flow arterial cannula. with this technique adequate bidirectional arterial perfusion is maintained with a single arterial cannula while the need for vascular repairs or reconstruction is minimized.
nuclear sclerotic cataract after vitrectomy for idiopathic epiretinal membranes causing macular pucker. we evaluated the occurrence or progression of nuclear sclerosis of the crystalline lens in 100 eyes after vitrectomy for removal of idiopathic epiretinal membranes causing macular pucker. the follow-up period ranged from six to 99 months (average, 29 months). visually significant nuclear sclerosis was present preoperatively in three of the operated on eyes and four of the fellow eyes. the rate of occurrence or progression of visually significant nuclear sclerosis was far greater in the operated on eyes (p less than .0001). of 100 patients, 80 operated on eyes and 24 fellow eyes had visually significant nuclear sclerosis or had undergone previous cataract extraction at the conclusion of the study. different concentrations of glucose in the intraocular irrigating solution did not affect occurrence of later nuclear sclerosis. patients older than 50 years of age had a far greater incidence of later nuclear sclerosis than patients younger than 50 years of age (p = .0003). nuclear sclerosis may be caused by altered lens metabolism after removal of part of the vitreous gel, since nuclear sclerosis also occurs in other conditions associated with vitreous liquefaction.
electroencephalography should not be routine in the evaluation of syncope in adults we reviewed the reports of all electroencephalograms obtained at the nashville (tenn) veterans administration hospital from september 1987 to august 1989. seventy-three patients were referred for evaluation of syncope or near syncope. of these 73 patients, 10 (13.7%) had abnormal findings. twenty-six patients were referred for other complaints similar to syncope (ie, blackouts, loss of consciousness, falling out, passing out, and fainting). of these 26 patients, five (19.2%) had abnormal findings. we reviewed the medical records of the patients with abnormal findings and found that the final diagnosis or treatment of the syncope was affected by electroencephalogram in only one patient. these findings suggest that routine electroencephalography is not of significant value in the evaluation of syncope in adults.
recurrence of resected esophagogastric adenocarcinoma: results of re-resection. isolated local recurrence following potentially curative resection for carcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction does not necessarily imply pending systemic disease and early demise. while radiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy is standard treatment for such patients, resection is another available option. resection may also be a consideration should localized disease persist after non-operative therapy in the absence of metastases. a 5 year retrospective review was performed examining 204 resections performed prior to 1989. only 5 patients underwent resection of locally recurrent esophagogastric (eg) adenocarcinoma during this period. no squamous carcinoma recurrences were resected. one patient is well 15 months later while another died at 18 months of other causes without recurrence. recurrence after re-resection occurred at 8, 11, and 24 months in the 3 other patients. although there were no postoperative deaths, major complications occurred in 4 patients. all 5 patients swallowed normally after operation.
idiopathic intracranial hypertension. although the cause of iih remains obscure, loss of visual function is common, and patients may progress to blindness. diagnosis should adhere to the modified dandy criteria. recent case-control studies cast doubt on the validity of many frequently cited conditions associated with iih. valid associations include obesity, recent weight gain, female sex, vitamin a intoxication, and steroid withdrawal. management should include serial perimetry using a sensitive disease-specific strategy so the proper therapy can be selected and visual loss prevented or reversed.
interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress in young adults. the interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress-induced cardiovascular reactivity was studied in white and black young adults aged 18-23 years. the cardiovascular response to difficult mental arithmetic was measured before and after 14 days of oral sodium loading (10 g nacl/day added to the usual diet). a sodium-sensitive blood pressure response occurred in 18.4% of whites and 37.3% of blacks. a significant correlation between blood pressure change and sodium excretion occurred in the sodium-sensitive group (r = - 0.28, p less than 0.01). high sodium intake did not augment blood pressure or heart rate response to the beta-adrenergic-mediated stimulus of mental arithmetic in the population, which was grouped by blood pressure, race, or sodium sensitivity.
nuclear techniques for the analysis of urinary calculi. sections of urinary calculi were prepared and point-by-point analyses along a line-scan were carried out using the techniques of proton-induced x-ray emission (pixe) and nuclear reaction analysis (nra). correlations between several pairs of elements (including trace elements) were noted and it was also clear that the composition of a stone varied markedly at different stages of development.
angiographic morphology in unstable angina and its relation to transient myocardial ischemia and hospital outcome. complex stenosis morphology frequently occurs in patients with unstable angina pectoris. however, its relation to transient myocardial ischemia and hospital outcome has not been ascertained. to address this issue, 88 patients with significant (greater than or equal to 50%) coronary artery disease presenting with angina--new onset (n = 38), worsening (n = 20) or at rest (n = 30)-were studied. patients with left main artery disease, normal coronary arteries or occlusion of the ischemia-related arteries were not included in the study. continuous electrocardiographic recordings were obtained during the first 24 hours. angiography was performed within 1 week from admission. complex morphology was defined as any stenosis with irregular borders, overhanging edges or intracoronary thrombus. only data referring to the in-hospital outcome were considered in this study. adverse end points were sudden death, myocardial infarction and emergency revascularization. analysis of the angiograms revealed a complex morphology in 58 patients (group 1). the remaining 30 patients served as control subjects (group 2). thirty-two of the 58 group 1 patients had an unfavorable clinical outcome (positive predictive value, 55%). a similar outcome occurred in only 2 of the 30 group 2 patients (negative predictive value, 93%). of the 32 group 1 patients who had an unfavorable clinical outcome, 29 had a cumulative duration of transient myocardial ischemia of greater than or equal to 60 minutes per 24 hours. a similar duration of ischemia, however, was observed in another 6 group 1 and in 8 group 2 patients.
effects of doxazosin on blood pressure, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone and urinary kallikrein. doxazosin, a new quinazoline-derivative postsynaptic alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, was studied in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study. its effects on blood pressure (bp), heart rate, metabolic functions and renal hormones were analyzed after administration of a single oral morning dose in a 3-phase fashion when administered to 17 patients (11 women, 6 men, 21 to 59 years) with mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension. after titrating the antihypertensive effective dose biweekly from 1 to 8 mg/day and a mean end titration-point dose of 4.14 +/- 0.1 mg (mean +/- standard error of the mean) at week 8 of treatment, it was adjusted to maintain diastolic bp at levels less than or equal to 90 mm hg for up to 12 weeks of treatment when, at a final mean dose of 4.35 +/- 0.2 mg/day, bp decreased in all patients by a mean 31 +/- 3/17 +/- 2 (supine) and 39 +/- 3/15 +/- 3 (standing) mm hg (p less than 0.005) with no increase in heart rate and no "first-dose phenomenon." neither the renin-aldosterone system nor electrolyte excretion was significantly affected. renal function and metabolic parameters also remained unchanged. urinary kallikrein excretion was augmented 2.47-fold (p less than 0.002). there was good tolerance; 1 patient discontinued the study because of dry nose. these results suggest that long-term monotherapy with doxazosin is an effective and safe antihypertensive agent for mild to moderate essential hypertension that stimulates urinary kallikrein excretion.
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies affecting the airway. congenital anomalies of the airway are generally uncommon, but a vast array of possibilities exists. some present life-threatening emergencies at birth, and others go undiagnosed for years. clinical symptoms are often nonspecific, and radiographic evaluation is frequently requested to localize and characterize the lesion before endoscopy, surgery, or medical management. the most common intrinsic congenital anomalies causing airway compromise in infants include choanal atresia, mandibular hypoplasia, laryngomalacia, vocal cord paralysis, and congenital subglottic stenosis. the radiologist must be on the alert for unsuspected additional anomalies involving the airway, lungs, and esophagus, which occur with relative frequency. numerous extrinsic congenital masses of the head, neck, and mediastinum may compromise the airway. hemangiomas, lymphangiomas, and teratomas are more likely to be noted at birth, whereas branchial cleft cysts, thyroglossal duct anomalies, and dermoid cysts frequently present later. mass location and radiographic characteristics usually allow accurate preoperative diagnosis. intracranial involvement by nasal or nasopharyngeal masses, intrathoracic involvement by lower neck mass, and intraspinal involvement by posterior neck mass must always be sought for radiographically. persistence of respiratory symptoms after removal of such masses is not uncommon because tracheal deformity and laxity may take months or years to resolve. recent advances in cine ct and mr imaging promise to improve imaging of the airway in general and in the pediatric population in particular. significant limitations in imaging of the pediatric larynx remain. as a result, endoscopy continues to be the primary diagnostic tool for airway anomalies of this region.
electrocardiographic ambulatory monitoring with a real-time analysis system. the analysis of records collected during long-term ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring has traditionally involved the review of massive data, either manually or with the aid of interactive scanning computers. many factors complicate this analysis, including the use of analog tape for storage of electrocardiographic waveforms, the need to analyze 100,000 waveforms from an average 24-hour study, and the need to deal with an interface that compresses 24 hours of data into as little as 6 minutes on a screen. today, the computer incorporated in the monitor can scrutinize each cardiac cycle in real time. the system produces a statistical report based on every heart beat and also performs data reduction and storage of electrocardiograph samples. to assess real-time analysis we examined data collected from the circadian circamed ambulatory electrocardiography system. we found that it could detect and quantify simple or complex ventricular ectopic beats, brady- or tachyarrhythmic events, and st-segment deviation. one hundred fifty patients 21 to 85 years old with symptoms or clinical finding suggestive of ischemia, cardiac arrhythmia, or conductive defects were referred to our electrocardiography laboratory for ambulatory monitoring. the results demonstrate that this system can detect the full range of cardiac disease found with the traditional method. of the 150 patients, ambulatory electrocardiographic tests were positive in 93 (62%). in addition, we developed a methodology for lead placement when using two bipolar leads, as is typical for ambulatory electrocardiography. we present a procedure for determining the optimum lead placement that is based on the patient's history and a 12-lead electrocardiogram.
invasive squamous cell carcinoma in a patient with epidermodysplasia verruciformis. a patient with epidermodysplasia verruciformis died of intracranial invasion by squamous cell carcinoma (scc). a biopsy of clinically normal skin had revealed perineural invasion by malignant keratinocytes. because sccs arising in patients with epidermodysplasia verruciformis may be biologically aggressive, it is best to excise them with careful control of the surgical tissue margins.
retinal infarction during sleep and wakefulness. brain and retinal infarctions during sleep have been attributed to focal hypoperfusion caused by systemic hypotension combined with underlying arterial stenosis, rather than to embolism. because some retinal emboli may be visualized on ophthalmoscopy, we studied 24 consecutive patients (18 men and six women) aged 26-78 (mean 58) years with recent retinal infarction and determined whether the infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness. all patients underwent dilated ophthalmoscopy and a carotid artery study (arteriography in 20, duplex ultrasound in the remaining four), and 12 had echocardiography. retinal infarction occurred during sleep at an unexpectedly rate (14 of 24 observed compared with eight of 24 expected, p = 0.02). retinal cholesterol emboli were seen in one half of the patients regardless of whether the retinal infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness. carotid artery disease was found in seven of the 14 patients in whom infarction had occurred during sleep and in eight of the 10 patients in whom infarction had occurred during wakefulness (p = 0.21). cerebrovascular occlusive disease was not found in the five patients aged less than 50 years. our findings suggest that embolism is a common mechanism of retinal infarction during sleep or wakefulness, that in patients aged greater than 50 years extracranial carotid artery disease is a common source of retinal emboli, and that the retina may be especially susceptible to infarction during sleep.
the impact of physician compliance on screening mammography for older women. screening mammography is underutilized, even for women older than 50 years for whom there is a general consensus that regular annual screening is appropriate and necessary. to evaluate reasons for this underutilization, we studied a random sample of 517 women in los angeles, calif who were older than 50 years. all women were found to be underscreened, especially women older than 65 years. for example, approximately 35% of women 50 to 64 years old and 47% of women aged 65 years and older never had had even one mammogram. analyses revealed that the most important factor that predicted whether a women ever had had a mammogram was whether her physician had talked to her about mammography. women were between four and 12 times more likely, depending on their age group, to have had a mammogram at some time if their physicians discussed it with them. the discussions did not need to be lengthy or complex. these results indicate that physicians need to know that discussing screening mammography with their patients has a major impact on breast cancer screening behaviors.
gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy. possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying. transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (ppw). we placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing ppw. myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies. the patient developed early postoperative gastric atony, associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias. these dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess. the gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying. gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period.
myocardial sulfhydryl pool alterations occur during reperfusion after brief and prolonged myocardial ischemia in vivo. myocardial sulfhydryl (sh)-containing compounds, including reduced glutathione (gsh), are both defenses against and potential markers of reactive oxygen metabolite injury during ischemia and reperfusion. we examined the alterations in gsh and other myocardial sh pools during reperfusion in anesthetized dogs exposed to brief (15 minutes, n = 7) or prolonged (90 minutes, n = 6) regional ischemia caused by occlusion of the left anterior descending artery. ninety minutes of ischemia followed by 5 hours of reperfusion, which resulted in myocardial necrosis of 43.9 +/- 4.0% of the area at risk, caused a 22% reduction in total myocardial sh groups (p less than 0.01), a 57% decrease in nonprotein myocardial sh groups (p less than 0.01), a 56% decrease in gsh (p less than 0.01), and a 62% decrease in non-gsh, nonprotein sh groups (p less than 0.02). however, protein sh groups were not significantly reduced (12% decrease, p = ns). also, myocardial release of gsh and oxidized glutathione (gssg) into the coronary venous effluent occurred during early reperfusion. in contrast, 15 minutes of ischemia, followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion, did not alter myocardial total sh groups, protein sh groups, or gsh (9% decrease, p = ns); nor was there reperfusion release of gsh or gssg. however, even with brief ischemia, nonprotein sh groups decreased 23% (p less than 0.05), due mainly to a 59% decrease in the non-gsh, nonprotein sh pool (p less than 0.05). these changes after brief ischemia occurred without alterations in myocardial gssg or the gsh/gssg ratio.
risk of dementia in first-degree relatives of patients with alzheimer's disease and related disorders. first-degree relatives of patients with alzheimer's disease (ad) are at greater risk for dementia when compared with the relatives of their healthy peers, but not when compared with the relatives of patients with parkinson's disease. this may indicate that the risk of dementia in these relatives is not specific to ad or that these studies are biased. we obtained a family history and vital status information on each first-degree relative of patients attending a clinic and in a group of recruited healthy elderly subjects. patients formed two groups: probable ad and other forms of dementia or cognitive disorders without dementia. the odds of dementia in first-degree relatives did not differ between patient groups. the odds of dementia in relatives of patients with probable ad or other forms of dementia was six times that in the relatives of the healthy elderly subjects. the cumulative incidence of dementia increased with age in the first-degree relatives of all subjects. approximately 50% of the first-degree relatives of patients with ad were demented by age 91 years, but almost the same number of the other patient group's relatives were demented as well. that figure was never reached in the healthy elderly subject's relatives. because the risk of dementia in first-degree relatives of patients with ad was similar to that for patients with other disorders, we cannot exclude the possibility that this is the result of selection and information biases. our investigation implies that the increased risk of dementia may not be specific to relatives of patients with ad; the risk may also be increased in first-degree relatives of patients with other neurologic disorders.
persistence of chronic constipation in children after biofeedback treatment. we investigated the efficacy of biofeedback treatment and evaluated anorectal factors that might be responsible for persistence of chronic constipation with or without encopresis in a group of 38 children with abnormal contraction of the pelvic floor during straining and persistence of chronic constipation with encopresis after conventional treatment. nine children were unsuccessful in learning to relax the pelvic floor during straining with biofeedback treatment, and one patient had contraction of the pelvic floor on follow-up despite successful biofeedback treatment; none recovered. twenty-eight children were able to relax the pelvic floor on follow-up; 14 recovered and 14 did not recover from chronic constipation. nonrecovered patients who learned to relax the pelvic floor had significantly decreased rectal and anal responsiveness to rectal distension as compared to recovered patients during the initial and follow-up anorectal manometric study. psychological factors such as social competence and behavior problems did not appear to be responsible for recovery or nonrecovery from chronic constipation and encopresis.
cognitive strategies during coincident timing tasks. research findings suggest that experience and cognitive strategies contribute to successful performance during perceptual-motor tasks. this article critically reviews selected literature on the effects of information-processing skills, preferred movement time, experience, and task difficulty on performance during coincident timing tasks. theoretical information and research findings are discussed, and their applications to clinical practice are considered. clinical recommendations include assessment of coincident timing skills and use of functional activities that provide opportunities to explore and dynamically interact with the environment.
successful reinduction therapy with amsacrine and cyclocytidine in acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia in children. a report from the childrens cancer study group. amsacrine (amsa) and cyclocytidine were studied as retrieval therapy in 122 pediatric patients with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (anll). patients either failed to achieve sustained initial remissions or were in relapse. induction therapy consisted of intravenous (iv) amsa (75 mg/m2) from days 1 to 5 and subcutaneous cyclocytidine (600 mg/m2) from days 1 to 7. maintenance therapy consisted of iv etoposide (vp-16) (100 mg/m2) for 5 days and iv amsa (100 mg/m2) on day 1. of 122 patients, 109 were evaluable. there were 13 early deaths. ninety-six patients received adequate therapy defined as completion of two courses of therapy. of these 96 patients, 52 achieved complete remission. fifteen of 33 patients who failed initial induction achieved complete remission. eighteen of 39 patients who were resistant to anthracyclines had complete responses. there was no direct evidence of amsa-induced cardiotoxicity. remission duration was 28 days to 3 or more years (median, 98 days). amsa and cyclocytidine were effective retrieval therapy for patients who were in relapse or unresponsive to frontline therapy. duration of remission was short (median, 98 days).
lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells. v. 8-mercaptoguanosine as an il-2-sparing agent in lak generation. guanine ribonucleosides, substituted at the c8 position with either a bromine or a thiol group, have recently been shown to regulate several immunologic responses. we have previously shown that 8-mercaptoguanosine (8mg) can replace the requirement for cytokines in the generation of mhc-restricted ctl. in this paper, we examined the ability of 8mg to induce mhc-nonrestricted killer cells. we found that 8mg did not induce significant lytic activity from normal resting lymphocytes. however, 8mg was able to synergize with minimal amounts of il-2 in inducing lytic activity similar to lymphokine-activated killers (lak) in that both nk-sensitive and nk-resistant tumor cells were killed. both the precursors and effectors of 8mg-lak activity were similar to nk cells and were cd4- cd8- asialo-gm1+ nk1.1+. similar to il-2-induced lak, 8mg-lak were b220+. 8mg appeared to "stage" these precursor lymphocytes to become more responsive to il-2 because optimal induction of 8mg-lak required preincubation with 8mg before the addition of il-2. this "staging" appeared to be due to the release of a "second signal" since it was readily inhibited by cyclosporine a. anti-ifn-alpha beta was as efficient as cyclosporine a in inhibiting 8mg-lak generation, whereas anti-ifn-gamma and anti-il-1 did not exhibit significant inhibition. these findings suggest that 8mg can be of possible utility as an il-2-sparing agent in lak generation from nk cells.
effects of dietary calcium on nimodipine-sensitive calcium channel function in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. we studied the effects of dietary ca2+ on blood pressure, survival, and calcium channel function to investigate cardiovascular disease mechanisms in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. beginning at 3 weeks of age, rats were fed high sodium chloride diets (8.0%) in combination with either high (2.0%) or low (0.2%) ca2+ diets for 8 weeks. at 12 weeks of age, survival was 90% in the high ca2+ group and 30% in the low ca2+ group. the higher blood pressure and lower survival in the low ca2+ group suggest an intensification of altered vascular muscle cell mechanisms by a dietary ca2+ deficit. nimodipine (1-10 nm) effectively blocked l-type ca2+ currents in isolated vascular muscle cells from both groups. contraction of isolated cells that were not patch clamped to high potassium solutions were also blocked by 1 nm nimodipine. disappearance of the l-type ca2+ channel current was accelerated by holding at depolarizing potentials (positive to -50 mv) and by depolarizing steps to 0 mv. nimodipine block of the l-type ca2+ currents in vascular muscle is believed to contribute substantially to antihypertensive properties and stroke prevention, actions that may develop fully only in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats on a diet of at least normal ca2+.
respiratory distress in a child in the office. we have reviewed respiratory distress from a pathophysiologic approach. two specific disease entities, epiglottitis and asthma, which commonly present with respiratory distress, are reviewed. the office management of respiratory distress encompasses early recognition of disease to prevent symptoms from progressing. referral should be considered in any difficult cases.
effects of renin inhibition in systemic hypertension. the effect of the direct renin inhibitor enalkiren (abbott laboratories) was examined in 8 healthy patients with essential hypertension. with an unrestricted sodium diet, plasma renin concentration was inhibited within 10 minutes by intravenous enalkiren and remained essentially undetectable for greater than or equal to 6 hours (11.9 +/- 4 to 1.0 +/- 0.6 ng angiotensin i/ml/hour, p less than 0.05). mean arterial blood pressure declined gradually (108 +/- 5 to 84 +/- 4 mm hg, p = 0.02), as did plasma aldosterone concentration (14.4 +/- 3.8 to 4.4 +/- 0.8 ng/dl, p = 0.03), whereas plasma immunoreactive active renin concentration increased progressively (35 +/- 14 to 160 +/- 60 pg/ml, p greater than 0.05). urinary excretion of the stable metabolite of prostacyclin (6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha) decreased slightly, but not significantly (42 +/- 10 to 33 +/- 11 ng/g creatinine, p = 0.13). the addition of a diuretic decreased baseline blood pressure and increased baseline plasma renin and aldosterone values. blood pressure responses to enalkiren were slightly (though not significantly) greater than those observed before diuretic administration. we conclude that enalkiren is effective in decreasing blood pressure and in inhibiting the renin system, without significantly altering urinary prostacyclin excretion, in patients with essential hypertension. these results suggest that the renin system contributes to the maintenance of elevated blood pressure in some patients with essential hypertension.
new biological properties of pyrroloquinoline quinone and its related compounds: inhibition of chemiluminescence, lipid peroxidation and rat paw edema. pyrroloquinoline quinone (pqq) inhibited the chemiluminescence (cl) from mouse peritoneal cells initiated by zymosan, carrageenin and n-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine and cl generated by the xanthine-xanthine oxidase reaction and the lipid peroxidation in the rat brain homogenate. the inhibitory activity of pqq was more potent than that of idebenone, alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid in all the three assay systems. in the xanthine-xanthine oxidase reaction, pqq had no effect on the formation of uric acid at the concentration of cl inhibition. these results suggest that pqq might have a radical scavenger-like activity. structure-activity relationship of pqq and its six related compounds showed that the 7- and 9-carboxyl groups of pqq as well as the orthoquinone structure are responsible for the radical scavenger-like activity. in addition, the -nh group in the pyrrole ring of pqq seemed to be essential for the antilipid peroxidative activity in the rat brain homogenate. when administered i.p., pqq inhibited the development of 0.1% carrageenin-induced paw edema in rats. these results suggest that pqq might have therapeutic effects on various diseases, of which development or exacerbation has been known to be associated with radical oxygens.
pancreatic pseudocysts. when to drain, when to wait. acute pain in the upper abdomen in a patient recovering from pancreatitis or abdominal trauma may herald a pancreatic pseudocyst. although small cysts resolve spontaneously, those larger than 6 cm across usually require treatment to prevent such complications as rupture into adjacent structures and infection. the authors describe operative and nonoperative treatment methods and the success reported with each.
evaluation of the magnitude of gastro-oesophageal reflux in barrett's oesophagus. a manometric study to determine the role of gastro-oesophageal reflux in barrett's oesophagus was performed on 20 patients with barrett's oesophagus and 53 patients with reflux oesophagitis without barrett's oesophagus (25 with mild oesophagitis and 28 with severe oesophagitis). for the same reason, the 20 patients with barrett's oesophagus also underwent 24 hour continuous oesophageal ph monitoring, and the results obtained were compared with those of 20 oesophagitis patients without barrett's oesophagus (10 with mild oesophagitis and 10 with severe oesophagitis). the manometric results show that the motor changes found in the barrett's group are specific but similar to the motor dysfunction associated with reflux oesophagitis. motor anomalies are probably related more to the inflammatory process in the oesophageal wall than to the metaplastic changes themselves. the ph monitoring results show that while reflux in the barrett's oesophagus patients was greater overall than in the oesophagitis group without barrett's oesophagus, the changes are similar when the results are compared with the severe oesophagitis group. in conclusion there are other factors besides gastro-oesophageal reflux involved in the pathogenesis of barrett's oesophagus.
comparison of epicardial coronary artery tone and reactivity in prinzmetal's variant angina and chronic stable angina pectoris it has been suggested that a generalized coronary vasomotion disorder is present in variant angina and that evaluation of baseline coronary artery tone may be useful for predicting the occurrence of coronary artery spasm. the vasomotor response of angiographically normal proximal and distal coronary artery segments was studied in 9 patients with atypical chest pain and normal coronary arteriograms (control group), 13 patients with active variant angina and 41 patients with chronic stable angina. ergonovine (intravenous, 100 to 300 micrograms, or intracoronary, 8 to 20 micrograms, was administered to all 22 patients in the control and variant angina groups and to 11 of the 41 patients with chronic stable angina. all patients also received intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate (1 to 2 mg). computerized coronary artery diameter measurement of angiographically normal segments was carried out before and after ergonovine and nitrate administration. mean baseline intraluminal diameter of proximal and distal coronary segments was not significantly different in control patients and those with variant angina (nonspastic segments only) or coronary artery disease (proximal 2.89 +/- 0.15, 2.83 +/- 0.14 and 2.82 +/- 0.09 mm; distal 1.60 +/- 0.08, 1.63 +/- 0.07 and 1.62 +/- 0.06 mm, respectively). after ergonovine, proximal segments constricted by 10 +/- 2%, 15 +/- 3% and 11 +/- 4% and distal segments by 11 +/- 3%, 11 +/- 2% and 14 +/- 3% in control, variant angina and coronary artery disease groups, respectively (p = ns).
intraepithelial bodies in colorectal adenomas: leuchtenberger bodies revisited. the presence of intraepithelial inclusion bodies (leuchtenberger bodies) was recorded in rectal or colonic specimens from 130 patients. large to moderate number of intraepithelial bodies were recorded in 81.8 percent of 55 colorectal adenomas from patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (fap). conversely, none of the 55 non-fap adenomas or of the 20 specimens with ulcerative colitis (10 with dysplasia) had similar amounts of intraepithelial granules. feulgen studies demonstrated that the granules contain dna and are probably nuclear fragments of destroyed lymphocytes. although the pathogenesis of this phenomenon remains obscure, it appears that the presence of large to moderate number of intraepithelial bodies in colorectal adenomas should strongly raise the suspicion of fap.
propofol as an i.v. anaesthetic induction agent in variegate porphyria. the choice of an i.v. anaesthetic induction poses problems for the anaesthetist confronted with a patient with one of the acute porphyrias. we undertook a prospective clinical trial in 13 variegate porphyric subjects using propofol as an anaesthetic induction agent. urinary porphyrin precursors and porphyrins were measured before operation and 1-5 days after operation. stool and plasma porphyrin concentrations were measured over the same period. comparison of these data in the porphyric patients and in 21 control subjects over the trial period revealed no significant change in porphyrin or porphyrin precursor output after operation. urinary porphyrin precursor concentrations did not exceed the limits established for variegate porphyric patients in remission, and there were no changes in the stool and plasma porphyrin profiles or any symptoms of an acute porphyric attack. we conclude that propofol did not appear to be porphyrinogenic when used for the induction of anaesthesia in 13 patients with variegate porphyria.
long-term followup of asymptomatic microhematuria. we present a 10 to 20-year followup assessment of 191 patients with unexplained microhematuria (including persons with insignificant lesions). genitourinary malignancies did not develop in any of the patients (128 alive and 27 dead) evaluated after the first diagnostic investigation. patient and physician compliance with followup protocols was poor. we currently recommend renal ultrasound and cystoscopy for the first diagnostic survey, have abandoned routine periodic studies and advise diagnostic studies only for patients in whom symptoms develop.
primary undifferentiated small cell carcinoma of the esophagus: clinicopathological and flow cytometric evaluation of eight cases. we present a clinicopathological and flow cytometric evaluation of eight primary small cell carcinomas of the esophagus representing 1.5% of all esophageal malignancies diagnosed during a 22-year period (1965-1987) in the tampere university central hospital. the mean age of the patients (four male and four female) was 67 years (range 55-75 years). five cases had distant metastases at the time of diagnosis. three patients were treated by esophageal resection, one by laser vaporisation, and four by chemotherapy. the median survival time was 4 months (range 9 days to 8 months). a complete local response to chemotherapy in serial esophagogramms was detected in one patient. all four patients given chemotherapy survived longer than those treated with esophageal resection only. four (67%) of the six carcinomas analyzed by dna flow cytometry contained dna-aneuploid stemlines. the median s-phase fraction of these small cell carcinomas was high (16.3%), reflecting rapid cell proliferation rate, which may be related to their responsiveness to chemotherapy.
choice of drug treatment for elderly hypertensive patients. it is generally agreed that moderate and severe hypertension in the elderly should be treated, but it is not clear which drug or drugs are most appropriate. thiazide diuretics are inexpensive and effective, but they are associated with metabolic side effects that are becoming less acceptable as newer agents become available. beta blockers are effective, but can be associated with central nervous system side effects and are often contraindicated by coexisting disease. recently, attention has been focused on the newer agents, including calcium antagonists and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. the advantage of calcium antagonists is that they do not produce metabolic side effects. however, they are expensive and may cause vasodilatory side effects. the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are effective and relatively free of side effects and may be particularly useful for elderly hypertensive patients with congestive heart failure.
solitary, isolated metastasis from ewing's sarcoma to the brain: case report. we report a case of a 30-year-old woman who developed an intraparenchymal cerebral metastasis from a ewing's sarcoma of the chest wall diagnosed and treated 3 years earlier and in apparent remission at the time of the neurological presentation (seizures). the case was complicated by a spontaneous preoperative intratumoral hemorrhage that occurred the morning of the scheduled surgical resection and caused a left dense hemiparesis. the tumor and the hematoma were removed. the patient improved after surgical intervention and a postoperative course of cranial irradiation followed by systemic chemotherapy was given. nineteen months after treatment the patient remains disease-free from the clinical and radiological standpoint.
maternal predictors of fetal demise in trauma during pregnancy. trauma complicates 6 to 7 per cent of all pregnancies, but fetal demise secondary to maternal trauma occurs much less frequently. this study was done to analyze the incidence of fetal demise as a function of 21 maternal characteristics determined within the first 24 hours after trauma. nine instances of fetal demise were identified from 73 pregnant patients with trauma admitted to four level i trauma centers from a combined data base of 30,000 patients. maternal factors examined by logistic regression were injury severity score (iss), trauma score (ts), abbreviated injury scale (ais), fluid requirements in the initial 24 hours, systolic blood pressure (sbp), heart rate (hr), hemoglobin, hematocrit and arterial blood gas analysis. fetal demise was found to be associated with increasing iss, increasing face and abdominal ais, increasing fluid requirements, maternal acidosis and maternal hypoxia. standard maternal laboratory and physiologic parameters, such as hemoglobin and hematocrit, oxygen and hemoglobin saturation, partial pressure of carbon dioxide, sbp and hr were not predictive. the ts was also found to be nonpredictive.
total bladder replacement using detubularized sigmoid colon: technique and results. we performed total bladder replacement with a detubularized segment of sigmoid colon in patients after cystoprostatectomy. the surgical technique and long-term results in 27 patients are reported. this neobladder configuration compared favorably with other neobladder types regarding ease of construction. the surgical complications were acceptable. initial reservoir function was good but improved further with time. after 1 year the capacity averaged 600 cc, pressures during filling and at capacity were low (average 12 and 16 cm. water) and emptying was satisfactory (residual urine 4 to 80 cc). all patients were continent during the day and 67% were continent at night without excessive voiding habits. nighttime incontinence was further resolved in 2 patients by using the ams 800 artificial sphincter around the bulbous urethra. the detubularized sigmoid is an excellent neobladder configuration after cystoprostatectomy.
balloon rupture due to lesion morphology during coronary angioplasty. we report a case of coronary angioplasty of a left anterior descending artery lesion that was complicated by the rupture of three successive balloon catheters. each rupture occurred as a pinhole jet of contrast into a diagonal side branch, causing subintimal staining. this case demonstrates that balloon rupture may result from lesion morphology.
the efficacy of palliative and definitive percutaneous versus surgical drainage of pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts: a prospective study of 85 patients. we compared the efficacy of percutaneous to surgical drainage in a prospective study in 85 patients with pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts. percutaneous drainage of pancreatic abscesses in 18 patients cured three and palliated 12 who were eventually cured by elective surgical ablation; three patients died. this compares well to our 15 surgical patients, of whom four were cured by surgery alone and six were palliated. all were subsequently cured by additional computerized tomography-guided or ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage and medical management or surgery. five of the 15 died. percutaneous drainage cured 11 of 14 infected pseudocysts and palliated two, which were subsequently cured by surgery; one was palliated but the patient was lost to follow-up. surgical drainage cured six of 12 infected pseudocysts and palliated the other six, of which four were cured by further surgery and the other two were cured by secondary percutaneous drainage. nine of 12 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by percutaneous aspiration, and two were palliated and later cured. in one patient, disease progressed, and he was ultimately lost to follow-up. thirteen of 14 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by surgical drainage. the other patient died of pulmonary embolus. in patients treated by percutaneous techniques, there were four major complications. our study established distinct advantages of percutaneous drainage under computerized tomographic and ultrasonic guidance: (1) the procedures can be carried out under ultrasonic guidance in an intensive care unit on critically ill patients, (2) the technique proved highly effective for initial palliation, with defervescence and stabilization occurring in most critically ill patients within 48 hours, (3) findings from fine needle aspiration provided valuable information as to microorganisms and antibiotic sensitivities and differed in 29 of 85 patients from those of concomitant blood cultures, and (4) definitive eradication of the process (surgical ablation of residual necrotic material) can be elected after the patient's clinical condition stabilizes.
the neuroradiology of visual disturbances. the neuroradiology of visual deficits has advanced dramatically in recent years. plain film evaluation of the orbit and face remains useful in the emergency room for the evaluation of trauma. high-resolution coronal ct remains the method of choice in the assessment of serious injury to the orbit and in cases of penetrating metallic foreign body. the contrast-enhanced orbital ct provides useful information in cases of tumor and infection and when the bones of the face or skull are involved. mri has largely replaced ct in the search for brain infarct, brain tumor, and cerebral inflammatory and demyelinating processes. mri is the study of choice in all cases of sellar and parasellar disease. it offers high-resolution images in any plane. gtpa enhancement has provided additional information from mri without significant risk. the final selection of an imaging modality should be based upon the clinical presentation and any physical limitations of the patient.
maternal and fetal effects of labetalol in pregnant ewes. labetalol has been advocated to rapidly decrease blood pressure in preeclamptic women and to blunt the hemodynamic response to tracheal intubation. to assess labetalol's actions in a setting of uterine vasoconstriction, saline or labetalol (1 mg/kg) was infused into maternal venous catheters in 12 pregnant ewes receiving continuous maternal intravenous infusions of norepinephrine. norepinephrine increased maternal mean arterial pressure (map) to 120 +/- 4% of control and decreased uterine blood flow to 45 +/- 6% of control. labetalol, but not saline, altered these parameters: it decreased map to 101 +/- 3% and increased uterine blood flow to 70 +/- 7% of prenorepinephrine values. in the second protocol, to assess the degree of labetalol-induced fetal adrenergic blockade, 7 pregnant ewes received, on separate days, saline or labetalol (0.3, 1.0, 3.0 mg/kg) via a maternal venous catheter. maternally administered labetalol produced minor (less than 12%) decreases in maternal and fetal map, without significantly altering heart rate (hr). at each labetalol dose, the degree of alpha- and beta-adrenergic blockade, determined by phenylephrine and isoproterenol challenge, was greater in the ewe than in the fetus. in the near-term pregnant ewe, intravenous (iv) bolus administration of labetalol ameliorated the effects of increased circulating norepinephrine on maternal map, uterine blood flow, and fetal ph and arterial o2 tension (pao2), and produced less adrenergic blockade in the fetus than in the mother.
aminocaproic acid prophylaxis in traumatic hyphema. oral aminocaproic acid has been shown to be effective in clot stabilization and in the reduction of secondary bleeding rates in cases of traumatic hyphema. in a retrospective study of 105 patients treated during a 1-year period, we found the incidence of rebleeding in patients with traumatic hyphema who received aminocaproic acid prophylaxis was 2%; the incidence in those who did not was 25%.
chronic posterior subluxation and dislocation of the radial head. the clinical and radiographic features of chronic posterior subluxation or dislocation of the radial head were studied in thirty-four elbows of twenty-seven patients. three characteristic radiographic types were noted: type i, subluxation; type ii, posterior dislocation with minimum displacement; and type iii, posterior dislocation with substantial proximal migration of the radius. follow-up of eighteen patients (twenty-one elbows) revealed that posterior displacement did not usually cause serious functional impairment except for loss of rotation of the forearm. the least common presentation, type-i subluxation, caused pain and clicking and was associated with late degenerative arthritis. cosmetic deformity due to prominence of the radial head was also a cosmetic problem, particularly with type-iii dislocation.
surgical treatment of a rare congenital anomaly of the vertebral artery: case report and review of the literature. a case of an abnormal loop of the vertebral artery compressing both the cervicomedullary junction and the accessory nerve is reported. the embryological development of the vertebrobasilar system may explain this anatomical anomaly. the possibility of an abnormal location of the vertebral artery may complicate the lateral c1-c2 puncture for myelography. only five similar cases have been reported previously, but none of them presented any clinical symptomatology, and surgical treatment was never required. the present patient was cured by microvascular decompression. the pathogenetic and surgical implications are discussed in light of the literature.
concurrent cisplatin, infusional fluorouracil, and conventionally fractionated radiation therapy in head and neck cancer: dose-limiting mucosal toxicity. after a preliminary dose-finding study involving 12 patients with advanced or locally recurrent head and neck cancer, 27 patients were treated on a phase ii protocol, using fluorouracil 350 mg/m2/d by continuous intravenous (iv) infusion over 5 days, followed on the sixth day by a 2-hour iv infusion of cisplatin 50 mg/m2, administered during the first and fourth weeks of radiation therapy to total doses between 60 and 64 gy, using 2 gy daily fractions. eight of these 27 patients had american joint committee on cancer staging (ajcc) stage iii disease, and 12 had stage iv disease. four had recurrent disease after surgery. three-year follow-up is now available. twenty-one (77.8%) remitted completely following treatment, and 11 remain free of local and regional relapse at 3 years. four have developed systemic metastases. following successful salvage treatment in two cases, estimated determinate survival at 3 years is 64%. acute toxicity was manageable with this regime. eleven instances of grade 3 radiation therapy oncology group/european organization for research and treatment of cancer (rtog/eortc) mucositis were observed, which caused interruptions to radiotherapy in only four cases. no late sequelae have so far been recorded. it is concluded that the protocol described is tolerable but probably did not cause a greater number of locoregional "cures" than would have been expected following conventional radiotherapy alone in this group of patients. the use of infusional fluorouracil with concurrent conventionally fractionated radiation therapy and cisplatin infusion results in mucositis that limits the dose of fluorouracil to levels that are probably subtherapeutic.
characterization of liver-associated natural killer cells in patients with liver tumors. the existence of a marginal lymphocyte population in rat liver sinusoids has already been demonstrated using the sinusoidal lavage method. we used the same technique to study the lymphocyte population in human liver obtained ex vivo after partial hepatectomy for benign or malignant tumors and compared it with peripheral and portal blood lymphocyte populations. percentages of lymphocyte surface phenotypes were evaluated by flow cytometry. the lymphocyte population obtained from human liver is mainly made up of cd56+ (35%) cells. this percentage is three times greater than that found in peripheral and portal blood. two-color flow cytometry analysis showed that within the cd56+ liver cell population, at least three distinct subsets could be found: (a) cd3+/cd56+/cd16-; (b) cd3-/cd56+/cd16-; and (c) cd3-/cd56+/cd16+. although these subsets were also present in peripheral and portal blood, the percentage distribution was completely different because most cd56+ cells in peripheral and portal blood belonged to the cd3-/cd56+/cd16+ subset. these results show the existence of a heterogeneous natural killer cell population in human livers with tumors. the functional significance of this heterogeneity still needs to be explained.
local hypothermia to prolong safe tourniquet time. local hypothermia was studied as a method to safely prolong tourniquet time for reconstructive procedures of the upper extremity. an ice blanket constructed of flannel cloth and cold gel packs was applied to the limb for 45 minutes preoperatively. seventy-eight patients were evaluated for complications resulting from hypothermia and prolonged tourniquet application. the duration of continuous tourniquet ischemia averaged two hours and 25 minutes. intraoperative muscle temperature recordings indicated that the iced limbs were an average of 12.9 degrees cooler than noniced limbs before tourniquet inflation. electron microscopic studies of biopsied muscle showed no evidence of ischemic changes. there were no postoperative complications associated with prolonged tourniquet inflation or the hypothermia blanket technique. local hypothermia appears to be a safe and effective method of decreasing the adverse effects of tourniquet ischemia and allowing continuous tourniquet inflation time to extend safely beyond the customary two-hour limit.
central nervous system tuberculosis in children: a review of 30 cases. the medical records of 30 children with central nervous system tuberculosis (cns tuberculosis) who were treated between march, 1976, and february, 1989, were reviewed. all had cranial computerized tomography scans at presentation. the mean cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count was 200/mm3, protein 239 mg/dl, glucose 25 mg/dl and csf/serum glucose ratio 21%. mantoux skin tests with 5 tuberculin units were greater than or equal to 10 mm induration in 50%, and chest radiographs were positive in 40% of patients. hydrocephalus was demonstrated by cranial computerized tomography in all 30 patients (100%). cranial computerized tomography scan demonstrating hydrocephalus is a sensitive radiographic nervous system tuberculosis and should be part of the early evaluation of children with suspected central nervous system tuberculosis.
pseudocyst of the auricle. case report and world literature review we treated a patient with pseudocyst of the auricle and reviewed the 113 cases previously published in the world literature. pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic, noninflammatory cystic swelling that involves the anthelix of the ear, results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity, and occurs predominantly in men (93% of patients). characteristically, only one ear is involved (87% of patients), and the lesion is usually located within the scaphoid or triangular fossa of the anthelix. previous trauma to the involved ear is uncommon. the diagnosis may be suggested by the clinical features, and analysis of the aspirated cystic fluid and/or histologic examination of a lesional biopsy specimen will confirm the diagnosis. therapeutic intervention that maintains the architecture of the patient's external ear should be used in the treatment of this benign condition.
prognostic factors for survival of patients with advanced urothelial tumors treated with methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin chemotherapy. between february 1983 and february 1986, 132 patients with advanced urothelial tract tumors were treated with methotrexate, vinblastine, adriamycin (doxorubicin), and cisplatin (m-vac) chemotherapy. analysis of prognostic factors for survival of the first 92 patients was undertaken using the cox proportional hazards model. normal alkaline phosphatase and high karnofsky performance status (kps) were predominant for long survival. patients 60 years or older at initiation of therapy were likely to survive longer than younger patients, perhaps indicating physician selectivity of older patients for this therapy, and those with initial hemoglobin in the normal range were also likely to survive longer. the additional 40 patients' data were used to validate the model. clinical implications of the prognostic factors are discussed.
movement disorders--limb movement and the basal ganglia. the primary concern of this article is to review experimental methods that may lead to a better understanding of the functional role of the basal ganglia in the control of movement. two models of basal ganglia impairment are considered: parkinson's disease and huntington's disease. the review focuses primarily on akinesia and bradykinesia because they are key abnormalities of basal ganglia dysfunction. in general, through electromyography and kinematic analysis of movement, it may be possible to characterize specific movement disorders. specifically, if damage sustained by the central nervous system is traced to a certain structure, it may provide insight on the extent of involvement and functional role of that structure in the control of movement. much of the data reviewed suggests that the basal ganglia may play a specific role in the initiation and regulation of force control.
hyperammonemic encephalopathy in urinary diversion with urea-splitting urinary tract infection. we present two cases of hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to urea-splitting urinary tract infection with urinary diversion. one patient had a ureterosigmoidostomy, the other an ileal loop diversion. neither patient had significant underlying liver disease, but both had considerable muscle atrophy that may have predisposed them to develop hyperammonemia. medical therapy did not provide long-term control of symptoms. in both cases, hyperammonemic encephalopathy resolved after revision of their urinary diversions. the probable mechanism of the metabolic derangements produced by urea-splitting urinary tract infections is reviewed. we suggest that patients with urinary diversion who develop hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to a urea-splitting urinary tract infection be treated with surgical revision of the urinary system to improve drainage and decrease bowel contact time.
postischemic (s)-emopamil therapy ameliorates focal ischemic brain injury in rats. (s)-emopamil is a calcium channel blocker of the phenylalkylamine class, having potent serotonin s2 antagonistic properties and high blood-brain barrier penetrability. previous studies have documented cerebroprotective effect in animal models of both focal and global ischemia. the present study was undertaken to define the postischemic "window" of therapeutic efficacy for this agent. sprague-dawley rats were subjected to permanent proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion, combined with an initial 30-minute period of halothane-induced hypotension (50 mm hg). (s)-emopamil (20 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally either 20-30 minutes prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion or 1 hour, 2 hours, or 3 hours following occlusion. treated groups received a second similar dose 2.5 hours later and twice daily for 2 days thereafter. brains were perfusion-fixed on the third day. planimetric analysis of hemotoxylin and eosin-stained coronal brain sections documented a cortical infarct averaging 72.9 +/- 33.3 mm3 (mean +/- sd) in untreated rats. cortical infarct volume was reduced by 48% (to 37.6 +/- 27.6 mm3) when therapy was initiated 1 hour postischemia (p less than 0.05). when treatment was deferred to 2 hours postichemia, mean cortical infarct volume was reduced by 34%, but this difference did not attain statistical significance. infarct volume in rats with treatment initiated at 3 hours postischemia was indistinguishable from that in controls. striatal infarct volume was similar in all groups. these results document a postischemic therapeutic window of cerebroprotection for (s)-emopamil lying between 1 and 2 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion.
recurrent transient ischemic attacks and stroke in association with an internal carotid artery web fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic vascular disease that most commonly affects cervical carotid arteries at the c1-c2 level when cephalic arteries are involved. several histopathologic and angiographic subtypes of fibromuscular dysplasia exist; most have a benign natural history. we describe the third reported case of a pathologically proven, symptomatic proximal internal carotid artery web and suggest that patients with this lesion are at a higher risk for stroke.
occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection. angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare. before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively. we report mri scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome. mri was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics, especially chronic hemorrhage. one patient underwent biopsy of the lesion. the other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision. occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized. the mri scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions. in certain patients, these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function.
acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding in elderly persons [clinical conference] we have seen that ugi bleeding is a serious and apparently growing problem for seniors. of special concern in the older patient are the frequency with which serious peptic disease presents silently, the limitation frequently imposed on adequate pain relief from nsaids, and the higher complication rates from most of the causes of ugi bleeding. care of the elderly would be enhanced by research focused on defining those older patients most at risk of experiencing nsaid-induced peptic complications, improved methods for preventing or treating nsaid-induced ulceration that are well tolerated and cost-effective, and better regimens for preventing the recurrence of ulcers and ugi bleeding in these patients. in regard to the last, future investigation of the role of h. pylori, methods for successfully eliminating the organism, and the effect of eradication on patients' subsequent course may be particularly helpful.
cyclic-amp binding proteins in the head and neck. results are presented of a preliminary study in which camp binding activity was measured in 34 specimens from a variety of head and neck sites. a wide range of camp binding protein levels was detected in all tissues assessed. there appeared to be a subgroup of parotid adenomas with increased camp binding activity. the biological significance of these proteins remains to be determined and their relationship to tumour growth in the head and neck is likely to be complex.
metastatic small cell tumor of bone with 'true' rosettes and glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity. a 15-year-old black girl was admitted to st. jude children's research hospital with a lytic lesion involving the right fourth metacarpal bone with a solitary metastasis to the ipsilateral axillary lymph node. histologic examination of both the primary lesion and metastasis revealed a primitive small round cell lesion. abundant rosettes with central lumina were present in the metastasis. immunohistochemical stains performed on sections of the metastasis were strongly positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) and negative for neuron-specific enolase (nse), s-100 protein, and leu-7. electron microscopic examination of the metastasis revealed lumen formation with apical microvilli and juxtaluminal junctional complexes. this tumor exhibits features that are suggestive, but not definitive, of primitive ependymal differentiation and further expands the morphologic and immunophenotypic range of small round cell tumors of bone.
total knee arthroplasty in rheumatoid arthritis. a comparison of the polycentric and total condylar prostheses. from 1971 to 1985, 393 total knee arthroplasties (tkas) were performed in patients for rheumatoid arthritis. of these, 112 used polycentric prostheses and 131 used total condylar prostheses. one hundred seven of the patients with polycentric prostheses and 102 of the patients with total condylar prostheses were followed for a minimum of two years (average, 61 and 55 months, respectively). at the time of the latest examination, nine knees with polycentric prostheses required revision surgery: six for tibial component loosening and instability and three for patellofemoral pain. five knees with total condylar prostheses required revision: one for chronic instability, one for a late posttraumatic patellar fracture, and three for late hematogenous infections. the total condylar prostheses with patellar resurfacing had better scores for pain (8.5 points) than the polycentric prosthesis without patellofemoral resurfacing (7.0 points). the total condylar prosthesis appeared more durable in terms of fixation, with no evidence of aseptic loosening of femoral or tibial components noted in this series thus far.
effect of hyperthermia in vitro and in vivo on adenine and pyridine nucleotide pools in human peripheral lymphocytes. hyperthermia has been shown in vitro and in vivo to potentiate the effects of ionizing irradiation. previous studies found that hyperthermia alters the metabolism of adenosine diphosphate (adp)-ribose polymers required for recovery from dna damage and that poly(adp-ribose) polymerase activity is very sensitive to cellular nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide (nad) levels. thus, the effect of 41.8 degrees c hyperthermia in vitro and in vivo on nad and adenosine triphosphate (atp) levels was studied in human peripheral lymphocytes. in vitro studies showed significant decreases in oxidized nad (nad+) and atp levels after heating that simulated a clinical whole-body hyperthermia (wbh) treatment. this nucleotide depletion could not be attributed to nucleotide leakage or increased enzymatic nad+ consumption. as the reduction of nad observed was sufficient to decrease poly(adp-ribose)polymerase activity by 50%, the studies were extended to clinica cases. cellular nad+ and atp were measured in previously stored lymphocytes obtained from four patients before and after wbh; a statistically significant decrease in nad+ was observed after wbh which quantitatively agreed with the in vitro results. based on these results a prospective study was done in three patients; nad+ was extracted immediately on sample collection, and the kinetics of wbh-induced nad depletion were studied. these data, which agree quantitatively with the laboratory results, are presented.
national general practice study of epilepsy: recurrence after a first seizure in the national general practice study of epilepsy 564 patients classified as having definite seizures have been followed up for 2-4 years. 67% (95% confidence interval 63-71%) had a recurrence within 12 months of the first seizure, and 78% (74-81%) had a recurrence within 36 months. seizures associated with a neurological deficit presumed present at birth had a high rate of recurrence (100% by 12 months), whereas seizures that occurred within 3 months of an acute insult to the brain, such as head injury or stroke, or in the context of an acute precipitant such as alcohol, carried a much lower risk of recurrence (40% [29-51%] by 12 months). other factors affecting the risk of recurrence were age-the highest risk being for patients under the age of 16 (83% [77-89%] by 36 months) or over the age of 59 (83% [76-90%] by 36 months-and type of first seizure-the risk of recurrence being much higher for patients with simple partial or complex partial seizures (94% [90-99%] by 36 months) than for those with generalised tonic clonic seizures (72% [67-77%] by 36 months).
ventricular tachycardia and accelerated ventricular rhythm presenting in the first month of life. fourteen infants aged less than 1 month presented to our institution during the last 22 years with ventricular tachycardia (vt) or accelerated ventricular rhythm and a structurally normal heart. in 2, vt was associated with long qt syndrome. both are alive on beta-blocker therapy, 1 with an implanted pacemaker. twelve infants had accelerated ventricular rhythm, and 2 of these died in the first 2 months of life of unrelated conditions. the other 10 are alive at a median age of 4 years (range 2 months to 11 years), and none were lost to follow-up. hemodynamic compromise did not occur with accelerated ventricular rhythm. the ventricular rate was very close to the sinus rate in all 12, less than 12% above the sinus rate. the mean qrs duration during accelerated ventricular rhythm was 92.5 ms, and averaged twice the qrs duration during sinus rhythm. fusion beats were seen in all 12, and there was atrioventricular dissociation with capture beats in 10. in 2, ventriculoatrial conduction was present. treatment was attempted in 5 of the 10 survivors with accelerated ventricular rhythm, and was thought to be successful in 4. treatment was later successfully withdrawn in all 5, so that all 10 survivors were free of accelerated ventricular rhythm and were not receiving antiarrhythmic medications at last follow-up. because of the excellent long-term outcome and the lack of hemodynamic compromise during the rhythm, it seems reasonable to withhold antiarrhythmic therapy in infants with accelerated ventricular rhythm and await resolution of the rhythm.
enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improves cardiac function in hypoxic rabbit ventricle without increasing total glycolytic flux. the effects of elevated glucose on cardiac function during hypoxia were investigated in isolated arterially perfused rabbit interventricular septa. rest tension, developed tension, intracellular potential, 42k+ efflux, lactate production, exogenous glucose utilization, and tissue high-energy phosphate levels were measured during a 50-min period of hypoxia with 4, 5, or 50 mm glucose present (isosmotically balanced with sucrose) and during reoxygenation for 60 min with perfusate containing 5 mm glucose/45 mm sucrose. at physiologic (4 or 5 mm) and supraphysiologic glucose (50 mm), lactate production and high-energy phosphate levels during hypoxia were equally well maintained, yet cardiac dysfunction was markedly attenuated by 50 mm glucose. despite identical rates of total glycolytic flux, exogenous glucose utilization was enhanced by 50 mm glucose so that tissue glycogen levels remained normal during hypoxia, whereas glycogen became depleted with 4 or 5 mm glucose present during hypoxia. most of the beneficial effects of 50 mm glucose occurred during the first 25 min of hypoxia. prior glycogen depletion had no deleterious effects during hypoxia with 50 mm glucose present, but exacerbated cardiac dysfunction during hypoxia with 5 mm glucose present. these findings indicate that enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improved cardiac function during hypoxia without increasing total glycolytic flux or tissue high-energy phosphate levels, suggesting a novel cardioprotective mechanism.
successful liver transplantation in a patient with a thrombosed portomesenteric system after multiple failed shunts. combined portal and mesenteric vein thrombosis preventing restoration of adequate portal venous flow has been considered a contraindication to liver transplantation. we report a patient with failed splenorenal (sr), portocaval (pc), and mesocaval (mc) shunts, who despite the absence of any obvious means for supplying portal venous inflow to a hepatic graft, successfully underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. a method of reconstruction of the portal vein with the use of vein grafts anastomosed to a large splanchnic venous collateral is described. this technique can be used in selected patients in whom orthotopic liver transplantation might otherwise be considered technically impossible.
the importance of calcium regulation in toxic cell injury. studies utilizing the technology of digital imaging fluorescence microscopy. the regulation of ions within the cell is of critical importance in both acute and chronic toxicology. recently, new methods have been developed for measuring such changes in living cells and correlating them with studies of structure, function, and biochemistry. a major revolution has occurred from the linkage between the computer and the light microscope, which has resulted in the use of digital imaging fluorescence microscopy and video intensification microscopy coupled with image analysis. these methods have already yielded much additional information and it is anticipated that their further application by pathologists and toxicologists will continue to uncover the important role of ion deregulation and toxic cell injury.
mistaken diagnoses in continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin. the syndrome of continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin has manifestations that resemble those of many other more common neurologic disorders during childhood and infancy. this similarity often leads to misdiagnosis when an adequate index of suspicion is not entertained and a comprehensive electromyographic examination is not performed. two affected patients from 1 family are reported to illustrate the type of diagnostic errors that were made before the establishment of the correct diagnosis.
studies on autoimmunity for initiation of beta-cell destruction. vi. macrophages essential for development of beta-cell-specific cytotoxic effectors and insulitis in nod mice. nod mice were treated with silica (which is selectively toxic to macrophages) from 4 or 20.5 wk of age. syngeneic neonatal pancreases were transplanted into the renal subcapsular space of the nod mice at 21 wk of age. silica treatment was continued until 24 wk of age, and then the mice were killed for examination of islet morphology. neither the islets in transplanted pancreases nor the host pancreatic islets from the early long-term silica-treated animals revealed insulitis. in contrast, most of the islets in transplanted pancreases from the late short-term silica-treated animals showed severe insulitis and beta-cell necrosis, as did the host islets. a further experiment was performed to compare the effect of late short-term silica treatment with that of anti-l3t4-antibody treatment of the same time and duration. in contrast to the late short-term silica-treated animals, the transplanted pancreases in the anti-l3t4-antibody-treated animals revealed intact islets, although most of the host islets showed insulitis. the control group, which received no treatment but did receive neonatal pancreases, revealed severe insulitis and beta-cell necrosis of both transplanted and host islets. these results suggest that early macrophage depletion can abolish the development of beta-cell-specific immunologic effectors but that late macrophage depletion, after the development of insulitis, does not affect the destruction of beta-cells by preexisting effectors other than macrophages. we conclude that macrophages are essential for the development of beta-cell-specific cytotoxic effectors in the initial phase of insulitis in nod mice.
intravenous immunoglobulin treatment in patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. clinical and laboratory characteristics associated with improvement. of 52 patients fulfilling the criteria of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 20 (38%) did not improve after intravenous immunoglobulin treatment, two (4%) had a short-lasting improvement and subsequent infusions had no effect, nine (17%) reached a spontaneously or therapeutically induced complete remission, and 21 patients (40%) needed intermittent infusions to maintain improvement. all patients who improved initially had symptoms that significantly interfered with life-style. after treatment, 90% of these patients were independent in their daily activities. significantly associated with improvement were disease duration of less than 1 year, progression of weakness until treatment, absence of discrepancy in weakness between arms and legs, areflexia of the arms, and slowed nerve conduction velocity of the motor median nerve. the probability of improvement if all these features are present in 93%.
panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular problems: results from a community survey. follow-up studies of psychiatric patients with panic disorder have shown an abnormally high mortality rate in men due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. the authors report that in the new haven portion of the epidemiologic catchment area program the risk for stroke in persons with lifetime diagnoses of panic disorder was over twice that in persons with other psychiatric disorders or no psychiatric disorder. after adjustments for demographic differences between groups, the risk was even higher. while the results should be interpreted cautiously because of the small sample and absence of medical examinations, these findings are consistent with clinical studies showing an association between panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular events.
diagnosing pulmonary embolism: new facts and strategies purpose: to provide a clinical approach to the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. data identification: an english-language literature search using medline (1982 to 1990) and bibliographic reviews of textbooks and review articles. study selection: in addition to several reviews, studies that evaluated the diagnostic technology of pulmonary embolism were selected. preference was given to studies with a prospective design, particularly those done within the past decade. data extraction: studies were assessed independently by three unblinded observers. data were chosen to describe the efficacy of diagnostic technology on the basis of disease prevalence, sensitivity and specificity, and predictive value. results of data analysis: a normal lung scan or pulmonary angiogram rules out the diagnosis of clinically important pulmonary embolism with at least 95% certainty. lung scan interpretations indicating high or low probability have approximately a 15% error in diagnosing or ruling out pulmonary embolism. the accuracy of either scan result improves when the clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism matches the lung scan result. serial impedance plethysmography of the lower extremities may exclude thromboembolism with 95% certainty in patients without high-probability lung scan results or cardiopulmonary disease. conclusions: the combination of clinical suspicion and the results of the lung scan and impedance plethysmography appear to offer acceptable diagnostic accuracy in evaluating many patients suspected of having pulmonary embolism. the usefulness of this approach for patients with cardiopulmonary disease is still unknown.
oral contraceptives in women with diabetes. we evaluated the association of oral contraceptive use with the presence and severity of diabetic retinopathy, hypertension, and glycosylated hemoglobin in women of childbearing age who have diabetes. neither current or past use nor number of years of use of oral contraceptives was associated with severity of retinopathy, hypertension, or current glycosylated hemoglobin. in conclusion, further study of various birth control methods in young women of childbearing age should be considered.
is banding of the pulmonary trunk obsolete for infants with tricuspid atresia and double inlet ventricle with a discordant ventriculoarterial connection? role of aortic arch obstruction and subaortic stenosis banding the pulmonary trunk may exacerbate or promote the development of subaortic stenosis in patients with double inlet ventricle or tricuspid atresia with a dominant left ventricle and discordant ventriculoarterial connection and, therefore, may be an inappropriate palliative procedure for such patients. to examine this possibility, 102 consecutive infants were studied who presented with this anatomy between 1972 and 1987. obstruction of the aortic arch was present in 52 patients. in 28 patients (17 with aortic arch obstruction), subaortic stenosis was already apparent at presentation. of the remaining 74 patients, 19 received no palliative surgery and 55 underwent banding of the pulmonary trunk either with (n = 22) or without (n = 33) aortic arch repair. outcome was significantly worse in patients with associated aortic arch obstruction. all such patients either died or developed subaortic stenosis by 3 years of age (survival free of subaortic stenosis 0 of 22 versus 22 of 33 for patients with isolated banding of the pulmonary trunk, p less than 0.001). after isolated banding, there was a lower ratio of the ventricular septal defect to ascending aorta diameters at presentation in the patients who developed subaortic stenosis than in the patients who did not (0.60 +/- 0.08 versus 1.03 +/- 0.15, p less than 0.001). of the latter, 18 (95%) of 19 patients fulfilled criteria for a fontan procedure at recatheterization. thus, the presence of aortic arch obstruction is associated with rapid development of subaortic stenosis after banding of the pulmonary trunk. alternative initial surgery, even though high risk, may be indicated. in the absence of such obstruction, banding the pulmonary trunk can be performed at reasonable risk and, provided that the ventricular septal defect is of adequate size, satisfactorily prepares most patients for a later fontan procedure.
treatment of scaphoid nonunion by radical curettage, trapezoidal iliac crest bone graft, and internal fixation with a herbert screw. ten adult male patients with scaphoid nonunions were treated by radical curettage, trapezoidal iliac crest bone grafting, and internal fixation with a herbert screw. the mean patient age was 24.7 years, and the mean duration of the nonunion before surgery was 37.3 months. mean follow-up time was 30.4 months. nine of the ten nonunions healed, although one patient required a second bone-grafting procedure. the mean postoperative grip strength was 45.0 kg, and the mean postoperative pinch strength was 11.5 kg. the mean postoperative range of motion was volar flexion, 76.1 degrees; dorsiflexion, 74.2 degrees; radial deviation, 22.1 degrees; and ulnar deviation, 40.1 degrees. the scapholunate angle decreased from a mean of 72.8 degrees preoperatively to 60.6 degrees postoperatively (p less than 0.025). the mean carpal index was 0.57 postoperatively. mean scaphoid length increased postoperatively and was within 0.2 mm of the opposite (normal) scaphoid in every patient except the single patient with a persistent nonunion (p less than 0.025). all patients returned to work (eight as laborers), and nine of ten wrists were subjectively rated as good or excellent. the results of the series suggests that treatment of displaced scaphoid nonunion by radical curettage, trapezoidal iliac crest bone grafting, and internal fixation with a herbert screw is an effective method of treatment that reconstitutes scaphoid anatomy and promotes excellent wrist function.
proposal of a modified scintigraphic method to evaluate duodenogastroesophageal reflux. hepatobiliary scintigraphy with 99mtc-hida offers a noninvasive method to detect duodenogastric reflux. biliary reflux was graded using the persistence rather than the intensity of the radioactive refluxate: grade 0 was considered the absence of reflux, minimal reflux, or reflux in the first 10-15 min; grade 1 was repetitive reflux lasting less than 10 min; grade 2 was persistent reflux; and grade 3 was reflux up to the esophagus. twenty-five patients with foregut symptoms were studied and results were compared to 24-hr gastric ph monitoring. scintigraphy and ph monitoring agreed in 15 out of 25 patients (60%), but no correlation was found with the endoscopic findings. the rationale for this approach is based on pathophysiologic evidence that damage to gastric and/or esophageal mucosa is mainly related to the prolonged contact time with duodenal contents. this technique seems to allow a complete functional evaluation of the esophagogastroduodenal tract without causing adjunctive irradiation or discomfort to the patient.
plasma glucagon concentration in cirrhosis is related to liver function but not to portal-systemic shunting, systemic vascular resistance, or urinary sodium excretion. we tested the hypothesis that increased plasma glucagon concentration resulting from portal-systemic shunting or liver dysfunction causes arterial vasodilation and thereby stimulates sodium retention in cirrhosis. twenty-seven studies were performed in patients with alcoholic liver disease, 11 of whom had ascites. liver function was quantitated as the elimination rate of antipyrine, caffeine, and stable isotopes of cholic acid administered both orally (2,2,4,4-2h) and intravenously (24-13c). portal-systemic shunt fraction was calculated as the ratio of the intravenous and oral clearances of the isotopes of cholic acid. cardiac output was measured by using doppler echocardiography. plasma glucagon concentration was increased in patients with ascites when compared with that in patients without ascites (474 +/- 180 pg/ml vs 245 +/- 120 pg/ml, p = 0.0007) but was unrelated to urinary sodium excretion, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, cardiac output, and systemic vascular resistance (r = -0.48, 0.35, -0.13, 0.18, and 0.22, respectively). plasma glucagon concentration correlated with the half-lives of all model compounds (r = 0.58, p = 0.002; r = 0.62, p = 0.0008; r = 0.62, p = 0.001; and r = 0.64, p = 0.0005; for caffeine, antipyrine, oral and intravenous cholic acid, respectively) but not with shunt fraction (r = 0.14). increased plasma glucagon concentration in cirrhosis is probably a result of diminished hepatic clearance. however, increased plasma concentration of glucagon does not appear to cause a hyperdynamic circulatory state or sodium retention.
comparison of clinical and electrophysiologic features of preexcitation syndromes in patients presenting initially after age 50 years with those presenting at younger ages. although patients may develop arrhythmias due to preexcitation syndromes at any time from the prenatal period to late adulthood, presentation in late adulthood is considered uncommon and has not been well studied. from june 1981 to june 1989, 73 patients were documented to have preexcitation syndromes on the basis of electrophysiologic studies. those whose initial arrhythmias appeared at an age greater than 50 years (group 1, n = 13) were compared with the remaining 60 patients (group 2). all group 1 patients presented in the setting of acute medical or surgical diseases (n = 7), or chronic cardiac disease (n = 6) commonly associated with middle age and often with atrial arrhythmias; only 13 group 2 patients had underlying illnesses (p = 0.0001). almost two-thirds of group 2 patients were evaluated because of narrow complex orthodromic tachycardia or palpitations and electrocardiographic evidence of preexcitation. wide complex tachycardia was more often a reason for referral of older patients (7 of 13 vs 11 of 60, p less than 0.05), among whom atrial fibrillation/flutter also tended to be more frequent (4 of 13 vs 11 of 60, difference not significant). the pr and qrs intervals of group 1 patients were within the normal range and differed significantly from those of group 2 patients (pr, 0.15 +/- 0.04 vs 0.11 +/- 0.03 second, p less than 0.001; qrs, 0.09 +/- 0.01 vs 0.12 +/- 0.03 second, p less than 0.001), making electrocardiographic identification of preexcitation more difficult in group 1. several factors likely contributed.
uk-68,798: a novel, potent and highly selective class iii antiarrhythmic agent which blocks potassium channels in cardiac cells. uk-68,798 increased the duration and effective refractory period of cardiac action potentials recorded in vitro from canine ventricular muscle and purkinje fibers in a concentration dependent manner from 5 nm to 1 microm. the resting membrane potential, amplitude and maximum upstroke velocity of action potentials were unaffected by uk-68,798, indicating the selective class iii antiarrhythmic properties of this agent. uk-68,798 (5 nm-1 microm) increased the effective refractory period of isolated guinea pig papillary muscles at stimulation frequencies of 1 hz and 5 hz without influencing the conduction velocity, further confirming that uk-68,798 is devoid of class i antiarrhythmic activity including block of the sodium channel. studies using single voltage clamped guinea pig ventricular myocytes indicated that uk-68,798 at concentrations of 50 nm and 2 microm blocks a time-dependent k+ current, with no appreciable effects on the time-independent k+ current or the inward calcium current. uk-68,798 is therefore a highly selective k+ channel blocking agent with class iii antiarrhythmic properties, a profile that holds considerable promise for the therapy of life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias.
rectourethral fistula caused by kaposi's sarcoma. a 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge, pneumaturia and watery diarrhea. radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula. perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of kaposi's sarcoma. the differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of kaposi's sarcoma are discussed.
cloning of a gene that is rearranged in patients with choroideraemia choroideraemia (tapetochoroidal dystrophy, tcd), a common form of x-linked blindness, is characterized by progressive dystrophy of the choroid, retinal pigment epithelium and retina. previous studies have assigned the tcd gene to a small segment of the xq21 band. by making use of reverse genetics strategies we have isolated eight overlapping complementary dna clones from the same chromosomal region. the corresponding gene is expressed in retina, choroid and retinal pigment epithelium. the cdnas encompass an open reading frame of 948 base pairs that is structurally altered in eight tcd patients with deletions, and in a female patient with a balanced translocation involving xq21. these findings provide strong evidence that we have cloned the gene underlying choroideraemia. elucidation of its function should provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms responsible for this disorder and other hereditary retinopathies.
distribution of pulmonary capillary transit times in recruited networks. when pulmonary blood flow is elevated, hypoxemia can occur in the fastest-moving erythrocytes if their transit times through the capillaries fall below the minimum time for complete oxygenation. this desaturation is more likely to occur if the distribution of capillary transit times about the mean is large. increasing cardiac output is known to decrease mean pulmonary capillary transit time, but the effect on the distribution of transit times has not been reported. we measured the mean and variance of transit times in single pulmonary capillary networks in the dependent lung of anesthetized dogs by in vivo videofluorescence microscopy of a fluorescein dye bolus passing from an arteriole to a venule. when cardiac output increased from 2.9 to 9.9 l/min, mean capillary transit time decreased from 2.0 to 0.8 s. because transit time variance decreased proportionately (relative dispersion remained constant), increasing cardiac output did not alter the heterogeneity of local capillary transit times in the lower lung where the capillary bed was nearly fully recruited.
clinical characteristics and treatment of isolated inferior rectus paralysis. isolated inferior rectus paralysis without mechanical restriction of the globe has received only scant attention in the literature. the authors report on 21 patients treated during the past 16 years. the etiology was congenital, traumatic, myasthenic, and vascular. anomalous head posture, diplopia, or a disfiguring hypertropia were presenting symptoms. diagnosis was made on the basis of the prism and cover test in the diagnostic positions and on examination of ductions and versions. the direction of the head tilt, the bielschowsky head tilt test, and tests for cyclotropia are only of secondary diagnostic value since they may give paradoxical results. surgery consisted of resection of the paralyzed muscle, combined with or without recession of its antagonist and/or recession of the contralateral superior oblique. after a mean follow-up of 17 months, 14 patients were cured, 6 had improved, and 1 remained unchanged.
the natural history of lumbar intervertebral disc extrusions treated nonoperatively. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the natural history of morphologic changes within the lumbar spine in patients who sustained lumbar disc extrusions. all patients in this study were treated nonoperatively for radicular pain and neurologic loss. the following questions were addressed: 1) does perithecal or perineural fibrosis result when extrusions are not removed surgically, and 2) do disc extrusions spontaneously resolve, and, if so, how rapidly? the study population consisted of 11 patients with extrusions and radiculopathy. all patients were successfully treated nonoperatively. all had a primary complaint of leg pain and all had positive straight leg raising reproducing their leg pain at less than or equal to 60 degrees. additionally, 87% had muscle weakness on a neurologic basis in a root level distribution corresponding to the site of disc pathology. computed tomographic (ct) examinations were obtained on all patients at the inception of treatment. these studies were compared with follow-up mri studies. the initial ct scans were evaluated for the following criteria: disc size and position, thecal sac effacement, nerve root enlargement or displacement, and evidence of central or intervertebral canal stenosis. in addition to the pathomorphology evaluated on the ct scans, follow-up mri studies also evaluated disc hydration at the herniated and contiguous levels, and the presence of perithecal or perineural fibrosis. the following grading system was used to evaluate change in fragment size on the follow-up studies: grade 1-0 to 50% decrease in size; grade 2-50 to 75% decrease in size; grade 3-75 to 100% decrease in size.
relationships of somatic symptoms to behavioral and emotional risk in young adolescents. junior high students (n = 1508) from a midwestern community completed a health behavioral questionnaire that asked the frequency of headache and abdominal pain and of a number of behavioral and emotional risk indicators. headache (24%) and abdominal pain (13%) were frequently reported among these young adolescents, particularly among girls. those reporting frequent somatic complaints also reported significantly more behavioral and emotional symptoms indicative of risk (p less than 0.001). further, the interaction between somatic complaint and gender significantly affected risk status (p less than 0.01). this interaction was greater with behavioral risk: boys with both abdominal pain and headaches reported higher behavioral risk than all other groups (p less than 0.0001). somatic symptoms continued to account for a significant amount of variance in behavioral risk after the effects of emotional risk and age were removed. this suggests that behavioral risk and emotional risk are independently associated with somatic complaints. the evaluation of persistent somatic complaints in adolescents, particularly in boys with abdominal symptoms, should include careful examination of emotional risk factors and other health-endangering behaviors such as substance use, early sexual activity, and delinquency.
potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. minimizing the danger. patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias are at an increased risk of sudden death. antiarrhythmic drugs, with the exception of beta blockers and possibly amiodarone, have not been particularly effective in reducing mortality. beta blockers have been used successfully to treat survivors of myocardial infarction, including patients with significant impairment of ventricular function. evidence to date suggests that use of low-dose amiodarone may be appropriate for selected patients with chronic heart failure and potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias.
prehospital care: the future of emergency medical services. most prehospital interventions, both pharmacologic and procedural, have been accepted without clear demonstrations of their abilities to impact patient outcomes or without clear indications that withholding or delaying the intervention pending arrival at a definitive emergency department will adversely affect the patient. interventions that have the benefit of supportive research have been applied equally to urban and nonurban emergency medical services environments. in selecting interventions, inadequate consideration has been given to the differences in emergency medical services personnel training, frequencies of their exposure to patients, frequencies of skill use, and availabilities of effective continuing education programs in the urban and nonurban environments. these issues are discussed, and the necessary focus of the future of emergency medical services in urban, suburban, and rural environments is predicted.
endometrial cancer: biochemical and clinical correlates. some endometrial cancers and endometrial adenocarcinoma cell lines show amplified expression of proto-oncogenes (fos, fms, myc, myb, neu, and erb-b) and augmented production of growth factors (colony-stimulating factor 1, epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor-alpha, and transforming growth factor beta) and epidermal growth factor receptor. oncogene expression, the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptors, and the fraction of cells in s phase are useful biochemical prognostic indicators of clinical outcome, and markers recognized by monoclonal antibodies are available for use in following the clinical course of the disease and responses to treatment. in vivo and in vitro studies on normal and neoplastic tissues are providing evidence of paracrine influences on epithelial cell proliferation. long-term administration of tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer has recently been found to increase the risk for development of endometrial cancer.
prospective randomized comparison of esophageal variceal sclerotherapy agents: sodium tetradecyl sulfate versus sodium morrhuate. we designed a prospective randomized study to evaluate differences in efficacy and complication rate between the two most commonly used sclerosing agents, sodium tetradecyl sulfate (std) and sodium morrhuate (mor). of 41 patients with acute index variceal bleeding initially evaluated, 21 were randomized to receive 0.75% std and 20 to receive 1.6% mor diluted with 50% dextrose. overall mortality for the std group was 38% and that for the mor group was 25% (ns). control of acute bleeding was achieved in 86% of the std patients and 90% of the mor patients (ns). overall, obliteration was achieved in only 33% of the std group and 25% of the mor group; but in those patients who remained in the study over 3 months, obliteration was achieved in 87 and 83%, respectively (ns). there was a trend toward higher rebleeding in the std group compared with the mor group (81% vs. 51%) (p = 0.078), but there was no significant difference between the std and mor patients with regard to transfusion requirements (8.4 units/patient vs. 8.7 units/patient), ulceration (53% vs. 40%), or stricture formation (9.5% vs. 0.0%). the results of this study suggest that std and mor are clinically equivalent sclerosing solutions, and that bias favoring use of one agent over the other may be unfounded.
delayed facial nerve palsy after temporal lobectomy for epilepsy: report of four cases and discussion of possible mechanisms. four cases of idiopathic peripheral facial nerve palsy were documented after 110 consecutive resections of the temporal lobe for intractable epilepsy. in 3 of the 4 cases, the palsy was ipsilateral to the side of the temporal lobectomy. the onset of facial weakness was delayed 7 to 13 days after surgery (mean, 9.7 days). one patient underwent facial electroneurography, which documented 17% of normal facial motor function at the height of his weakness and the absence of the acoustic stapedius reflex. all patients were treated with prednisone (60-80 mg per day by mouth for 10-14 days, tapering off throughout the subsequent week). facial function recovered fully in all patients within 6 to 8 weeks. possible mechanisms are discussed, including heat and/or mechanical trauma to the facial nerve near the geniculate ganglion during resection of mesial temporal lobe structures.
reduced psychological morbidity after breast conservation. psychological morbidity was compared in 52 patients treated by mastectomy and 67 patients treated by lumpectomy for early breast cancer. an informal counselling service was provided for all patients. morbidity was measured at 6, 9 and 12 months after surgery with two self-rating scales: the general health questionnaire and the leeds depression and anxiety scales. there was a significant excess of severe depression in the mastectomy group. in contrast to the findings of previous research, this result suggests that breast conservation reduces psychological morbidity.
wives of coronary high-risk men--are they also at higher risk? the tromso heart study. blood lipids, blood pressure, body mass index (bmi), smoking, dietary and exercise habits were studied in 911 wives of men with high risk for coronary heart disease (chd). following the 1979/80 tromso survey, 1373 men, aged 30-54 years, were identified as having high risk for chd (hdl-cholesterol/total cholesterol less than or equal to 17.6% and/or total cholesterol greater than or equal to 7.86 mmol l-1). of the 1373 men, 911 individuals had wives who also attended the screening. these wives were compared to age-matched, married women in the general population. a significantly higher total cholesterol level (5.98 mmol l-1 vs. 5.78 mmol l-1), lower hdl-cholesterol/total cholesterol (30.01% vs. 31.58%), higher bmi and higher coronary risk score (4.55 vs. 3.82) was found among the wives of the high-risk men. furthermore, a higher proportion of these individuals were daily cigarette smokers (47.3% vs. 42.1%), and had received fewer years of education. they also had more dietary habits associated with increased risk of chd than other married women in the general population. our findings support the hypothesis that members of the same household as a person with increased risk for chd also have increased risk. this is most probably due to shared lifestyle.
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2. interleukin-2 (il-2) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours. this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane (tx) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event. recombinant human il-2, 10(5) u (n = 7), 10(6) u (n = 9), or vehicle (n = 8) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour. at 6 hours edema, as measured by increase in wet to dry weight (w/d) ratio, was present in the heart, liver, and kidney, with 10(5) u il-2 and in the lung, heart, liver and kidney, with 10(6) u il-2, relative to values with vehicle-infused controls (all p less than 0.05). with a 1-hour infusion of 10(6) u il-2, there was an increase in plasma thromboxane (tx)b2 level to 1290 +/- 245 pg/ml, higher than 481 +/- 93 pg/ml in control rats (p less than 0.05); lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte (pmn) sequestration of 53 +/- 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields (hpf) relative to 23 +/- 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls (p less than 0.05); and increased bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) fluid protein concentration of 1970 +/- 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls (p less than 0.05). when 10(6) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus (n = 9), edema was not demonstrated, plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls, there was no leukosequestration, and bal protein levels were normal. these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema, increased plasma txb2, sequestration of pmns, and microvascular permeability. these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment.
excess purine degradation caused by an imbalance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate in patients with congestive heart failure. to evaluate purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure concentrations of serum hypoxanthine, lactate, and noradrenaline were measured before and after submaximal treadmill exercise in 12 patients with chronic congestive heart failure and nine healthy volunteers. in four patients the concentration of hypoxanthine was significantly higher than in the controls or in the remaining eight patients with congestive heart failure. venous lactate and noradrenaline in the four patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine were also significantly higher than those in the eight patients with normal concentrations of hypoxanthine. patients who responded normally were also more likely to have been treated with vasodilators and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. exercise induced arrhythmias were more common in the patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine. these results suggest that the excess purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure might be the result of a "relative" disturbance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate caused by the shift of cellular metabolism from aerobic glycolysis to anaerobic glycolysis during submaximal exercise and that hypoxanthine (a substrate for xanthine oxidase and a source of free radicals) was increased after submaximal exercise in some patients with congestive heart failure.
delayed subcapsular hematoma after percutaneous liver biopsy as a manifestation of warfarin toxicity. guidelines for the management of patients receiving chronic anticoagulation therapy who require liver biopsy are not clearly defined. in patients with normal coagulation, liver biopsy is a relatively safe procedure with a morbidity of less than 0.1% and a mortality of less than 0.01%. we report a patient with a prosthetic aortic valve who developed a large subcapsular hematoma 12 days after a percutaneous liver biopsy as a consequence of warfarin toxicity. based on the experience with this patient, reinstitution of anticoagulant therapy should be avoided for at least 72 h after a percutaneous liver biopsy. intravenous heparin should be resumed first, and warfarin added if no bleeding has occurred after an additional 48-72 h. the prothrombin time should be maintained at 1.5 times the baseline.
long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis. we reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution. these 27 patients represent 4% of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry. reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 (65.5%) cases. comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did (84% at 5 years, 78.6% at 10 years) and did not (90.3% at 5 years, 83.6% at 10 years) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference (p = 0.48) when measured from the time of primary operation. the perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation (3.4% and 0%) were acceptable. we conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity (3.4%), surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy.
serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders. serum erythropoietin (s-epo) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders (acd), classified into three groups according to their aetiology: inflammatory (n = 20), infectious (n = 15) and neoplastic (n = 15). the inflammatory group showed a higher mean s-epo level (mean value +/- sem, 69 +/- 11 mu ml-1) than the neoplastic (43 +/- 5 mu ml-1; p less than 0.05) and infectious groups (27 +/- 4 mu ml-1; p less than 0.01). the s-epo level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls (36 +/- 3 mu ml-1; p less than 0.05). fourteen patients with added iron deficiency (12 subjects from the inflammatory group) showed the highest s-epo concentration (72 +/- 17 mu ml-1). conversely, s-epo levels were lower in febrile subjects (12 patients with infection and five with malignancy) than in non-febrile patients (28 +/- 4 mu ml-1 vs. 55 +/- 7 mu ml-1; p less than 0.01). in the infectious group, the logarithm of s-epo correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values. we conclude that differences in s-epo concentration in acd may be further related to the patient's iron stores and temperature. a decrease in epo production may contribute to the pathogenesis of acd secondary to infection.
percutaneous nucleotomy. an anatomic study of the risks of root injury. fifteen cadaveric dissections have been performed to determine the anatomic relationships of nucleotomy guide wires. all the 44 guide wires inserted were found to be in contact with at least one nerve root (eight transfixed a root). guide wires passing anterior to the nerve roots always passed anterior to the center of the disc. lateral displacement of the skin entry point made safe entry to the center of the disc impossible. nerve root transfixion is likely to be a significant complication in percutaneous nucleotomy. entry to the center of the disc avoiding the nerve roots is simplest if the skin entry is as near to the midline as possible.
blood contacts during surgical procedures operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact. to describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors, trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at grady memorial hospital, atlanta, ga, for 6 months. in 62 (30.1%) of 206 operations, at least one blood contact was observed. of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed, 96 (5.3%) had 147 blood contacts (133 skin contacts [90%], 10 percutaneous injuries [7%], and four eye splashes [3%]). the mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons (18.6). the frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff (mean, 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group). risk factors for surgeons' blood contacts were (1) performing a trauma, burn, or orthopedic emergency procedure (odds ratio [or], 4.1; 95% confidence interval [ci], 2.0 to 8.7); (2) patient blood loss exceeding 250ml (or, 2.1; 95% ci, 1.2 to 3.7); and (3) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour (or, 3.3; 95% ci, 1.6 to 7.1). of 110 blood contacts among surgeons, 81 (74%) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions, such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns. twenty-one (84%) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers. of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel, 20 (69%) would have been prevented by glove use. for surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact, reevaluation of surgical technique, use of appropriate barrier precautions, and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated.
prognostic significance of the white nipple sign in variceal bleeding. the prognostic significance of the white nipple sign in variceal bleeding was evaluated prospectively in 203 separate admissions for bleeding esophageal varices in 145 cirrhotic patients. during all admissions a standardized protocol of management defined the failure of transfusion and vasoactive drugs (conservative measures) to stop bleeding and the occurrence of early rebleeding, at which time either emergency sclerotherapy or a staple transection of the esophagus was used. the finding of a white nipple in 18 admissions (9%) did not have predictive value as regards the failure of conservative measures to stop bleeding within 24 hours or rebleeding within 5 days, and there was no association with increased mortality. in one case, a white nipple was seen to occur after spontaneous cessation of a variceal venous spurt, suggesting it is a platelet-fibrin plug. the white nipple sign is diagnostic of a varix that has bled but has no adverse prognostic significance.
optimizing heparin utilization in angiographic flush solutions. various concentrations of heparin in angiographic flush solutions are employed during angiography. in an effort to determine whether differences in outcome are seen when either high or low concentrations of heparin in angiographic flush solutions are utilized, two groups of patients were evaluated. there was no difference in outcome and a small systemic effect from heparin was seen in both groups. use of a low concentration of heparin is suggested for routine angiography.
hepatic portal venous gas identified by computed tomography in a patient with blunt abdominal trauma: a case report. an abdominal computed tomographic (ct) scan in a middle-aged man injured in a high-speed motor vehicle accident demonstrated the presence of portal venous gas. findings on initial peritoneal lavage were entirely negative. exploratory celiotomy performed because of increasing abdominal pain and leukocytosis revealed gangrene of the cecum. this report illustrates the importance of the finding of portal venous gas on ct scan in patients with blunt abdominal trauma.
transhepatic portal vein catheterization for localization of insulinomas: a ten-year experience. one of the most important factors in the management of insulinomas is the ability to localize the tumor accurately either before or during surgery. we prospectively carried out transhepatic portal venous sampling (thpvs) for tumor localization in 35 of 40 patients with organic hyperinsulinism during a 10-year period. in 32 patients who underwent thpvs and in whom a single tumor was subsequently identified surgically, the maximal insulin gradient was located in the vicinity of the tumor in 100% of cases. specific regionalization of the tumor on the basis of the site of the maximal insulin gradient to one of three regions (the tail, the body/neck region, and the head/uncinate region) gave a sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 91%. in contrast, the use of specific cutoff levels for the insulin gradient as a guide to the presence of a tumor in one of these three regions did not increase the accuracy, leading instead to a significant loss of sensitivity with no comparable increase in specificity. there were no major complications from the procedure in any patient. the initial use of computed tomographic/ultrasound scanning and selective angiography localized only 46% of tumors, whereas subsequent thpvs led to the accurate preoperative localization of 100% of all tumors submitted to surgery. although the surgeon would have identified 81% of the tumors correctly at operation, in 19% (n = 6) he would have failed. four tumors were in the uncinate and two were in the head. it seems that in patients with proved or established organic hyperinsulinism, thpvs may continue to be of value, if only to regionalize the tumor, especially those in the pancreatic head and uncinate process so as to preclude noncurative operations on the body and tail of the pancreas.
the clinical utility of carotid duplex scanning. we retrospectively compared the results of duplex scanning (ds) with contrast angiography (can) in the evaluation of 119 patients whose 238 carotid arteries were evaluated by both methods within a four-week period. the results of all patients were then categorized by two different definitions of severity of stenosis. category a classified 1-29% stenosis as mild, 30-69% stenosis as moderate, and 70-99% diameter reduction as severe stenosis. category b defined mild stenosis as 1-19% lumen diameter reduction, moderate as 20-49% stenosis, and severe as 50-99% stenosis. the findings by each classification were compared in 60 patients with hemispheric symptoms and in 59 patients with nonspecific symptoms. can was our "gold standard", and exhibited greater sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and predictive values than ds. carotid arteries with 70% stenosis were identified by ds with greater specificity, accuracy, and predictive values than were arteries with 50% stenoses. only the sensitivity was comparable in categorizations a and b (80% and 83%). all parameters of measurement were superior in patients with hemispheric symptoms. ds alone cannot substitute for can in selecting patients for carotid endarterectomy because its error rate exceeded acceptable rates of complications for carotid artery surgery. the false positive rate of ds was 4%. ds failed to diagnose 7 of 19 carotid artery occlusions, 9 of 11 ulcerated plaques, 7 of 119 instances of aortic arch disease, and 13 cases of severe intracranial artery stenosis.
the shoulder in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. one hundred shoulders were assessed in 50 patients with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, of which one-third were found to have bilateral symptoms. two distinct clinical and radiological groups emerged. those with minor epiphyseal abnormalities developed painful osteoarthritis in middle age, but retained shoulder movement until the secondary changes were advanced. those with 'hatchet head' shoulders likewise became painful in the fifth and sixth decades but had minimal glenohumeral movement from an early stage.
aortico-left ventricular tunnel: long-term outcome after surgical repair. over a 14 year period, four children (three male, one female) underwent surgical correction of an aortico-left ventricular tunnel. all presented in infancy (age range 5 days to 9 months). the presenting feature was a systolic and diastolic murmur in all, one of whom developed heart failure within 2 weeks of presentation. in the first two patients, the echocardiographic findings were inconclusive and the diagnosis was confirmed at cardiac catheterization (at 10 and 23 months of age, respectively); the other two were diagnosed echocardiographically by two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging. all four patients underwent surgery by patch closure of the aortic end of the tunnel (three patients) or direct suture closure (one patient) and there were no deaths. the mean age at operation was 11 months. during a mean follow-up period of 71 months (range 2 to 157), three patients have clinical and echocardiographic evidence of trivial aortic valve regurgitation, which was noted in the immediate postoperative period in one and at early (less than 6 months) follow-up study in the other two. all are symptom-free, are taking no medications and are growing and developing normally. aortico-left ventricular tunnel can be accurately diagnosed by echocardiography. in patients presenting in infancy, echocardiography also provides the necessary morphologic information to enable surgical correction without angiography. early operation is associated with an excellent outcome, whereas repair at a later age is associated with a high incidence of residual aortic regurgitation requiring further surgery.
abdominal sparganosis in ecuador: a case report. sparganosis, infection with plerocercoids of the pseudophyllidean tapeworm spirometra, rarely has been described in ecuador. we report the details of a human case of sparganosis identified serendipitously in the course of an abdominal hernia repair. the parasite was found moving freely upon the external oblique fascia adjacent to the site of a direct abdominal hernia. the organism was recovered intact, photographed while alive and preserved for subsequent detailed morphological studies. the presumed route of entry into this patient was percutaneous, after application of a poultice of snake flesh to the site of a painful abdominal hernia. the literature on sparganosis in south america is reviewed. this is the second case of human sparganosis reported from ecuador.
undifferentiated carcinoma of the ovary. thirty-five cases of ovarian carcinomas, which had as the predominant histologic component solid areas of epithelial cells without differentiation into mullerian carcinomas, were reviewed. the patients' ages ranged from 39 to 72 years (mean age, 54 years). two patients had clinical stage i disease, one had stage ii, 26 had stage iii, and six had stage iv. microscopically, the malignant cells formed large groups or sheets with desmoplastic stroma around them. foci of papillary serous carcinoma, unclassified adenocarcinoma, or transitional cell carcinoma were seen in 26 tumors, foci of necrosis were seen in 30 tumors, and vascular invasion was seen in seven tumors. six of 13 carcinomas tested expressed ca125 reactivity, and 12 of 13 carcinomas reacted to b72.3 monoclonal antibody. the primary tumors were treated by aggressive surgical reduction in 32 patients and by multiple biopsy procedures in three patients. after the first operation, 30 patients had residual disease, smaller than 2 cm in five patients and larger than 2 cm in 23 patients. after surgery, 33 patients received chemotherapy; three of these 33 also received radiotherapy. one patient was treated with postsurgical radiotherapy only, and one patient refused further treatment. thirty-four patients (97%) died of disease between 8 and 108 months (mean, 27 months) after initial surgery, 29 patients died in less than 32 months. four patients (11%) survived more than 5 years: two patients with stage i disease who died at 82 and 102 months, one patient with stage ii who died at 72 months, and one patient with stage iii who has no evidence of disease after 116 months. five-year survival of patients with undifferentiated ovarian carcinoma is worse than the reported survival of patients with serous carcinoma or ovarian carcinoma with a pattern resembling transitional cell carcinoma. the distinction between these three carcinomas that have solid areas carries prognostic significance.
dilatation in the duplex kidney: 3 unusual cases. dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele. by contrast, vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter. we report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated.
the electrocardiographic manifestations of cyclic antidepressant therapy and overdose: a review. cyclic antidepressants may cause changes in the electrocardiogram at therapeutic or toxic serum levels. the most serious complications of cyclic antidepressant toxicity are dysrhythmias, hypotension, and seizures. it is predominantly the cardiotoxic effects that cause mortality. once cardiotoxicity is evident, the treatment of choice is serum alkalinization, preferably by sodium bicarbonate therapy. in order to predict which overdose patients are at high risk for complications, electrocardiographic criteria have been identified as reliable screens. for "first generation" tricyclic antidepressants, qrs prolongation (particularly greater than 100 msec) and a terminal 40-ms frontal plane axis greater than 120 degrees are the most sensitive. this article reviews antidepressant pharmacology, electrocardiographic manifestations of antidepressant cardiotoxicity, and approaches to treatment of antidepressant-induced conduction disturbances and dysrhythmias.
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold. an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (aicd) was implanted in 40 patients with sudden cardiac arrest (n = 29), sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (n = 10) or recurrent syncope (n = 1) who were unsuitable for direct ablative surgery or had had unsuccessful medical therapy. the effect of patch electrode polarity on the defibrillation threshold was prospectively evaluated. two large epicardial patches were used. initial polarity was selected at random. ventricular fibrillation was induced by direct current and a preestablished defibrillation protocol employed to assess the minimal energy that would reproducibly defibrillate the heart. nineteen patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with the inferior left ventricular patch as an anode and nine patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with this patch as a cathode. in general, the defibrillation threshold was lower when this patch was used as an anode than when it was used as a cathode (18 +/- 10 versus 22.6 +/- 12.2 j; p less than 0.01). no preoperative variable predicted optimal polarity. therefore, the effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold should be assessed in each patient at the time of aicd implantation so that the safety margin for satisfactory device function can be maximized.
underdiagnosis and undertreatment of chronic sinusitis in children. a review of outpatients diagnosed with sinusitis during the previous year by the allergy services of childrens hospital of los angeles and kaiser permanente, orange county, revealed 34 patients who had protracted discomforting and debilitating symptoms. the mean duration of symptoms was approximately six months (range 1-14 months). none had been previously diagnosed as having sinusitis or received appropriate treatment. although all were referred for evaluation of allergic rhinitis and/or asthma, approximately 1/3 were found to have neither of these conditions. among patients who had asthma, their asthmatic symptoms were aggravated by the sinusitis. all patients eventually responded favorably to appropriate antibiotic therapy. earlier diagnosis and appropriate therapy would have foreshortened the course of this very discomforting condition. in recent years, we have observed a marked increase in the number of patients referred with the chief complaint of "worsening allergy" and who were subsequently found to have sinusitis. most of the patients experienced significant incapacitation for protracted periods before a correct diagnosis was made and treatment instituted. in all but a few cases, prompt and sustained improvement followed appropriate therapy. the purpose of this report is to present a retrospective review of 34 illustrative cases.
correlation between laboratory findings and clinical outcome after restorative proctocolectomy: serial studies in 20 patients with end-to-end pouch-anal anastomosis. clinical function and anorectal physiological function were assessed and correlated in 20 patients with ulcerative colitis before restorative proctocolectomy and 3, 7, and 12 months after operation. the entire anal sphincter was preserved by means of a stapled pouch-anal anastomosis. before operation, the median resting anal pressure was 79 cmh2o (interquartile range 70-89 cmh2o), the rectoanal inhibitory reflex was present in all patients and anorectal 'sampling' was noted in 16 of 20 patients. three months after operation, resting anal pressure was 68 cmh2o (range 50-87 cmh2o) (p less than 0.001), the reflex was present in only three patients (p less than 0.001) and sampling was observed in one patient. after 7 months, resting anal pressure was 76 cmh2o (range 64-89 cmh2o), the reflex was present in 11 patients and sampling was observed in nine patients. at 12 months, resting anal pressure was 84 cmh2o (range 66-94 cmh2o), the reflex was present in 19 patients and sampling was observed in 17 patients. the compliance and capacity of the reservoir increased significantly. ability to discriminate flatus from faeces was associated with return of the rectoanal reflex and sampling.
continuous arteriovenous rewarming: experimental results and thermodynamic model simulation of treatment for hypothermia. we evaluated a technique for treating hypothermia that uses extracorporeal circulation but does not require heparin or pump assistance. hypothermia to 29.5 degrees c was induced in eight anesthetized dogs, and thermistors placed in the pulmonary artery, liver, bladder, esophagus, rectum, muscle, and skin. four experimental animals were rewarmed by creating a fistula which connected arterial and venous femoral lines to an interposed counter-current heat exchanger. external rewarming was used in four controls. bleeding time (bt), coagulation profile (pt, ptt, tt), and cardiac output (co) were measured during rewarming. core temperature (t) rose significantly faster with cavr (0.00001). average time to rewarming was 45 min, vs. 4 hrs in controls. haptoglobin, platelet, fibrinogen, and fibrin split product levels were unaffected. continuous arteriovenous rewarming (cavr) improved t, co, bt, and coagulation profile faster than any method yet reported not requiring heparin or cardiac bypass. the application of cavr in post-traumatic hypothermia warrants further investigation.
preventive therapy of first gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis: results of a controlled trial comparing propranolol, endoscopic sclerotherapy and placebo. propranolol and endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices are the two approaches currently used in prophylaxis of the first gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the cirrhotic patient. one hundred twenty-six cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices and no histories of bleeding were included in the trial regardless of the gravity of the cirrhosis or the size of the esophageal varices. patients with hepatocarcinomas or other cancers, clearly impossible follow-up, previous treatment for portal hypertension or contraindication to beta-blockers were excluded. after randomization, 43 patients received propranolol twice daily at a dose reducing the heart rate by 25%; 42 patients were treated with intravariceal and extravariceal injections of polidocanol; 41 control patients received vitamin k orally as placebo. the patients were seen at 3-mo intervals for 2 yr. on entry to the trial the three groups were comparable in terms of clinical and biological parameters, including size of esophageal varices (grade i = 51, grade ii = 54, grade iii = 17), child-pugh classification (a = 29, b = 61, c = 32) and the origin of cirrhosis (alcoholic in 79% of cases). twenty-four patients bled (two bled in the propranolol group, nine bled in the endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices group and 13 bled in the placebo group). actuarial estimates (kaplan-meier) of the time of onset of first bleeding showed that the differences were significant between propranolol and placebo (p less than 0.004) and between propranolol and sclerotherapy (p less than 0.03) but not between sclerotherapy and placebo.
airflow obstruction after substance p aerosol: contribution of airway and pulmonary edema. we have studied the effects of aerosolized substance p (sp) in guinea pigs with reference to lung resistance and dynamic compliance changes and their recovery after hyperinflation. in addition, we have examined the concomitant formation of airway microvascular leakage and lung edema. increasing breaths of sp (1.5 mg/ml, 1.1 mm), methacholine (0.15 mg/ml, 0.76 mm), or 0.9% saline were administered to tracheostomized and mechanically ventilated guinea pigs. lung resistance (rl) increased dose dependently with a maximum effect of 963 +/- 85% of baseline values (mean +/- se) after sp (60 breaths) and 1,388 +/- 357% after methacholine (60 breaths). after repeated hyperinflations, methacholine-treated animals returned to baseline, but after sp, mean rl was still raised (292 +/- 37%; p less than 0.005). airway microvascular leakage, measured by extravasation of evans blue dye, occurred in the brain bronchi and intrapulmonary airways after sp but not after methacholine. there was a significant correlation between rl after hyperinflation and evans blue dye extravasation in intrapulmonary airways (distal: r = 0.89, p less than 0.005; proximal: r = 0.85, p less than 0.01). examination of frozen sections for peribronchial and perivascular cuffs of edema and for alveolar flooding showed significant degrees of pulmonary edema for animals treated with sp compared with those treated with methacholine or saline. we conclude that the inability of hyperinflation to fully reverse changes in rl after sp may be due to the formation of both airway and pulmonary edema, which may also contribute to the deterioration in rl.
the patterns of care outcome study for cancer of the uterine cervix. results of the second national practice survey. this report summarizes the outcome results of the patterns of care study (pcs) of cancer of the uterine cervix from 565 patients treated in 1978. the 5-year survival with no evidence of disease was: stage i, 74%; stage ii, 56%; and stage iii, 33%. the 5-year local in-field failure rate was: stage i, 12%, stage ii, 27%; and stage iii, 51%. extent of parametrial involvement, unilateral versus bilateral, may be important in determining survival and local failure. the four-year actuarial survival was 58% for unilateral involvement versus 47% for bilateral (p = 0.06), and the local failure rate was 32% for unilateral versus 45% for bilateral (p less than 0.05). when analyzed by stage, patients with stage iib disease with unilateral parametrial involvement showed a trend toward improved survival and decreased local failure compared with those with bilateral stage iib cancers (p = 0.1). the use of intracavitary irradiation significantly improved survival and reduced local failures. furthermore, the number of intracavitary applications was important. when two or more intracavitary applications were used compared with one application, local in-field failure was significantly reduced, 29% versus 17% at 4 years (p less than 0.001), and four-year survival was improved, 60% versus 73% (p = 0.01). the four-year actuarial rate of major complications depended on the stage: stage i, 8%; stage ii, 15%; and stage iii, 13%. there was a statistically significant increase in major complications in patients undergoing laparotomy for staging versus no laparotomy 23% versus 11% at 4 years (p less than or equal to 0.01) and a trend toward increased major complications in patients who were thin or had prior abdominal surgery. this study confirmed the stage-dependent outcome of treatment of cancer of the uterine cervix with radiation and indicated that further division of stage iib to indicate prognostic significance of unilateral or bilateral parametrial involvement may be warranted. this study also confirmed the importance of intracavitary radiation in optimizing control established by the 1973 pcs. it further suggests that where possible, two intracavitary insertions may yield better results than one insertion.
educational policies. it is vital that teachers, parents, and health professionals recognize the major educational problems that affect students with epilepsy. children with epilepsy should be placed in the least restrictive schooling environment so that social, emotional, and educational requirements can be met in a setting best suited to the individual's present needs and future development. personal assessment and monitoring of progress form an equally important part of a child's educational program in integrated schools, but there is a need to develop suitable instruments to assist teachers in their assessments and decision making. in australia, the national epilepsy association has developed an "alert kit" based on the epilepsy foundation of americas "school alert kit" to provide basic medical information on epilepsy to teachers and pupils.
rehabilitation in brain disorders. 4. specific disorders. this self-directed learning module highlights important aspects of medical rehabilitation of patients with brain disorders. the specific disorders reviewed in this module are traumatic brain injury, stroke, multiple sclerosis, parkinson's disease, and other degenerative disorders. this module is a section of the chapter on rehabilitation of brain disorders for the self-directed medical knowledge program study guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. the chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. emphasis is given in this section on key elements of current medical practice, including epidemiology, pathophysiology, prognosis, and outcome. neurologic assessment and management is highlighted for coma, amnesia, cranial nerve and late intracranial complications, postacute management, and postconcussive syndromes. the learner is directed to articles 1, 2, and 3 in this chapter for supporting information.
update on the epidemiology of anorexia nervosa in a defined region of switzerland. in this follow-up investigation, the authors studied all swiss women in the canton of zurich who developed anorexia nervosa between ages 12 and 25 years and who were hospitalized for the first time with this diagnosis between 1983 and 1985. data were compared with those from an earlier study, which focused on the periods 1956-1958, 1963-1965, and 1973-1975. the incidence of anorexia nervosa did not increase significantly during 1983-1985 compared to 1973-1975, in contrast to the constant increase found between 1956 and 1975. however, the more frequent use of vomiting and abuse of laxatives in 1983-1985 may indicate an increase in cases with mixed features of anorexia nervosa and bulimia.
spontaneous splenic rupture following infectious mononucleosis. four cases of spontaneous splenic rupture after infectious mononucleosis (im) have been treated at this institution since 1978. the condition is rare, occurring in 0.1-0.5 per cent of patients with proven infectious mononucleosis. splenectomy is considered the treatment of choice for these patients. however, because recent trends in the management of traumatic splenic rupture are moving towards nonoperative treatment with selected patients, a similar approach has been considered for the patient with spontaneous splenic rupture following im. the major reason for avoiding splenectomy is the increased incidence of sepsis in splenectomized patients. yet, splenic rupture is accompanied by hemorrhage and the risks associated with blood transfusion for ongoing hemorrhage are of similar magnitude as those of sepsis following splenectomy. in addition, the grossly abnormal spleens seen at operation tend to include large, contained hematomas that may also be prone to rupture. therefore, operative management still appears to be the preferred treatment for spontaneous splenic rupture following im. splenectomy is curative, safe, and obviates the need for transfusion, extended hospitalization, and activity restriction.
barium meals in the elderly--a quality reassurance. the consecutive double contrast barium meal examinations of 100 elderly patients (aged over 65 years) and a group of 33 younger adult patients were analysed by two observers for technical quality and pathological abnormalities. technical quality declined with patient age, especially in those over 75 years, but was sufficient to enable diagnosis of abnormalities in 60% of the elderly group. it is concluded that, in the majority of elderly patients, the technical quality of double contrast barium meal examinations is sufficiently high to offer considerable diagnostic utility.
gallstone disease in north india: clinical and ultrasound profile in a referral hospital. we studied the prevalence of gallstones in patients with upper abdominal pain, heaviness, or discomfort by ultrasound examination of the gallbladder. the actual ultrasound examination was performed by a clinical gastroenterologist blinded to the symptoms. of 1,680 consecutive dyspeptic patients, 500 (29.8%) had gallstones. the gallbladder was contracted in 450 (91.2%), normal-size in 36 (7.2%), and distended in 8 (1.6%). biliary colic was more frequently the presenting complaint in patients with a contracted gallbladder than in those with normal size gallbladder (p less than 0.001). dyspepsia was more frequent in the presence of a normal size gallbladder than a contracted one (p less than 0.001). we conclude that ultrasonography of the gallbladder by the clinician has a high diagnostic yield, and the symptom complex has an excellent correlation with the sonographic appearance.
increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers. there is controversy over the effect of hypertension in pregnancy on the incidence of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome. we investigated the association between maternal hypertension and the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in 268 very low birthweight babies of less than 34 weeks' gestation. a lower incidence of respiratory distress syndrome was associated with growth retardation and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours. maternal hypertension was associated with an increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome. we used the multiple logistic regression model to control for confounding variables, as the maternal and neonatal factors associated with respiratory distress syndrome were not evenly distributed between the two groups. after adjustment for birth weight, gestational age, growth retardation, and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours, the risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome was significantly greater in babies of hypertensive mothers. significance was lost when labour before delivery and mode of delivery were taken into account. the increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers may be due to the absence of labour before delivery because of the greater likelihood of caesarean section.
more than one mutant allele causes infantile tay-sachs disease in french-canadians. two tay-sachs disease (tsd) patients of french-canadian origin were shown by myerowitz and hogikyan to be homozygous for a 7.6-kb deletion mutation at the 5' end of the hexosaminidase a alpha-subunit gene. in order to determine whether all french-canadian tsd patients were homozygotes for the deletion allele and to assess the geographic origins of tsd in this population, we ascertained 12 tsd families of french-canadian origin and screened for occurrence of mutations associated with infantile tsd. dna samples were obtained from 12 french-canadian tsd families. samples were analyzed using polymerase-chain-reaction (pcr) amplification followed by hybridization to allele-specific oligonucleotides (aso) or by restriction analysis of pcr products. in some cases southern analysis of genomic dna was performed. eighteen of the 22 independently segregating mutant chromosomes in this sample carried the 7.6-kb deletion mutation at the 5' end of the gene. one chromosome carried the 4-nucleotide insertion in exon 11 (a "jewish" mutation). in this population no individuals were detected who had the substitution at the splice junction of exon 12 previously identified in ashkenazi jews. one chromosome carried an undescribed b1 mutation; this allele came from a parent of non-french-canadian origin. patients in three families carried tsd alleles different from any of the above mutations. the 5' deletion mutation clusters in persons originating in southeastern quebec (gaspe) and adjacent counties of northern new brunswick.
prolonged confusion following convulsions due to generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus. among patients with a prolonged confusional state after convulsive seizure, we diagnosed 8 cases as generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus. six had a history of seizures, and 2 had new onset. the convulsive seizures were generalized in 6 and focal in two. the postictal confusion lasted up to 36 hours in the most prolonged case, and a delayed response to anticonvulsant medications occurred in all cases. the clinical symptoms ranged from mild confusion to coma. psychiatric manifestations or automatisms were rare. the presumed etiology was due to diverse causes, but a withdrawal state was the most common. eeg demonstrated continuous or nearly continuous generalized ictal discharges of variable morphology. these cases call attention to the fact that some prolonged confusional states following convulsive seizures are in fact due to persistent seizure activity that can be diagnosed by eeg.
interleukin-2: prospects for lymphocyte-mediated destruction of pediatric malignancies. immunologic therapy of cancer was speculated on at the turn of the century. in animals, in vitro, and most recently in patients, irrefutable evidence has been obtained that lymphocyte responses can have a reproducible and beneficial antitumor effect. these results indicate that "biologic response modification" may truly become a fourth modality for cancer treatment, to be integrated into the standard approaches of radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery. to what extent these immune approaches may enable eradication of microscopic amounts of residual diseases in children who would otherwise have a recurrence of their malignancies remains the critical issue for testing over the next decade. enthusiasm regarding this approach is abundant, but critical evaluation of all clinical trials is essential to best focus these mechanisms into effective therapy.
neuropathy caused by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage: case report. a case of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow produced by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and thrombocytopenia is reported. intraneural hemorrhage in patients with bleeding disorders occurs infrequently. it consists of acute intrafascicular bleeding, presumably producing very high elevations of endoneurial fluid pressure. the clinical features and treatment of this condition are considered, the pertinent literature is reviewed, and the involved pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed.
association of bcl-1 rearrangements with lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation. previous studies using classical cytogenetics have demonstrated the presence of the t(11;14) (q13;q32) chromosomal translocation in some cases of lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation (idl), a distinct type of low grade b-cell lymphoma. this finding suggested that the bcl-1 region (located at band q13 of chromosome 11) might be involved in this neoplasm. using a genomic probe from the major breakpoint area of the bcl-1 locus, we identified rearrangements of the bcl-1 region in 10 of 19 cases, 2 of which comigrated with a rearranged allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene joining region. in contrast, bcl-1 rearrangements were not found in other types of low grade b-cell lymphoma, specifically in 36 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (cll/sll) and 27 cases of follicular lymphoma (fl). to further assess the molecular pathology of idl, we analyzed these cases for rearrangements of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene, which is associated primarily with follicular lymphomas. none of the 19 cases of idl had rearrangements. furthermore, none of the 36 cases of cll/sll showed bcl-2 rearrangements, whereas, as expected, 21 of 27 cases of fl had rearrangements of the bcl-2 locus. our findings demonstrate an association between a rearranged bcl-1 region with approximately 50% of idls and suggest that abnormalities of this locus may be important in the pathogenesis of idl.
congenital mirror movements. abnormal organization of motor pathways in two patients. we studied 2 patients with congenital mirror movements by means of various neurophysiological and metabolic techniques, including mapping of motor evoked potentials to transcranial electrical and magnetic stimulation, premovement and somatosensory evoked potentials, kinematics of voluntary movements, muscle reflexes, and positron emission tomography (pet). abnormalities in maps of motor and premovement potentials and in pet scans were consistent with a bilateral representation of hand muscles in the motor cortex, the existence of physiologically active connections capable of conducting fast efferent volleys from the motor cortex to ipsilateral muscles, the presence of mirror emg activity in either hand with intended voluntary movement of the other hand, the absence of mirrored emg responses from wrist flexors and extensors to mechanical perturbation of the contralateral wrist, and normal scalp distribution of somatosensory evoked potentials to right and left median nerve stimulation. our findings are consistent with aberrant organization of motor representation areas and corticospinal pathways with ipsilateral as well as contralateral control of voluntary movement.
photopheresis for the treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma. we investigated the use of extracorporeal chemotherapy (photopheresis) in eight patients with cutaneous t cell lymphoma. initially described by edelson et al. for the treatment of erythrodermic cutaneous t cell lymphoma, we have expanded the treatment to include patients with extensive patch/plaque disease as well as tumor-stage disease. four of five patients with erythrodermic stage disease had either a complete or a partial clinical remission with photopheresis alone. one patient with extensive patch/plaque disease continued to have a partial clinical remission of 7 months' duration with photopheresis alone. of the two patients with tumor-stage disease, one remained without evidence of clinical disease at 10 months with photopheresis alone, whereas the second patient had a partial clinical remission of 5 months with a combination of local radiation therapy followed by monthly photopheresis. the skin biopsy specimen obtained from the patient with tumor-stage disease in complete clinical remission did not show cutaneous t cell lymphoma. we conclude that photopheresis is an effective modality alone or in combination with adjunctive therapy for erythroderma, extensive patch/plaque disease, and some tumor-stage disease.
increased sensitivity to endotoxemia by tissue necrosis. in this study the interaction of endotoxemia and ischemic organ injury was investigated in a rat model. animals received lipopolysaccharide to induce endotoxemia and were simultaneously subjected to renal ischemia. if only renal ischemia was induced, moderate azotemia occurred and all animals survived. lipopolysaccharide treatment caused neither renal failure nor death. however, rats with both endotoxemia and renal ischemia showed severe azotemia, and 50% of the animals died within 48 hours. the observed mortality rate is unlikely related to renal failure since animals subjected to bilateral nephrectomy did not die within 48 hours after treatment with lipopolysaccharide. to further exclude the role of renal failure in the enhanced effect of endotoxemia, experiments were performed in which ischemic kidneys were excised from littermates and were placed in the abdomens of lipopolysaccharide-treated animals. a similar effect was observed: 50% of the animals died within 48 hours. azotemia did not occur. since tumor necrosis factor (tnf) is an important cytokine involved in endotoxemia-induced morbidity and death, we studied the role of tnf in our model. plasma levels of tnf were increased during endotoxemia. concomitant renal ischemic injury did not influence the concentration of tnf. when animals were treated with recombinant tnf and were subsequently subjected to renal ischemic injury, again a 50% mortality was observed, a rate similar to that in lipopolysaccharide-treated animals. we conclude that the sensitivity to endotoxemia is enhanced by tissue necrosis and may lead to death in the experimental model used in this study.
polyamines and ornithine decarboxylase during repair of duodenal mucosa after stress in rats. this investigation shows whether polyamines and ornithine decarboxylase have a role in duodenal mucosal repair following stress-induced microscopic damage. rats were fasted for 22 hours, placed in restraint cages, and immersed in water to the xiphoid process for 6 hours. animals were killed either immediately after the period of stress or at 2-hour intervals up to 24 hours thereafter. duodenal mucosa was examined histologically, and ornithine decarboxylase and polyamine levels were measured. ornithine decarboxylase activity was increased significantly up to 6 hours following stress, peaking at 4 hours at a level 10 times the prestress control. by 8 hours, enzyme activity had returned to near normal. increases in mucosal putrescine, spermidine, and spermine content paralleled the changes in ornithine decarboxylase activity and peaked 4 hours after stress. stress resulted in microscopic damage evidenced by a nearly complete absence of villi. significant macroscopic lesions were not present following stress. mucosal repair was evident 12 hours after stress and almost complete by 24 hours, although the restituted villi were short and blunted. the decreases in mucosal dna, rna, and protein content caused by stress were restored and reached near-normal levels 12 hours after the period of stress. in animals given the specific inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, alpha-difluoromethylornithine, increases in duodenal mucosal ornithine decarboxylase activity and polyamine levels were inhibited and mucosal repair was almost completely prevented following stress. alpha-difluoromethylornithine also prevented the recovery of dna, rna, and protein content of the duodenal mucosa. these results indicate that duodenal mucosal damage following stress is repaired rapidly; the repair process is accompanied by significant increases in ornithine decarboxylase activity and polyamine levels; and the increases in ornithine decarboxylase and polyamines are absolutely required for the normal repair of the mucosa.
the acute and insidious onset of pulmonary metastatic transitional cell carcinoma. transitional cell carcinoma is a common urologic neoplasm. although pulmonary metastases from this tumor are often not appreciated clinically, they are frequently documented in autopsy studies. therefore, the clinical recognition of this condition can be problematic. to illustrate this point, we present three patients with progressive unexplained dyspnea and histories of transitional cell carcinoma. since ineffective and possibly detrimental therapeutic approaches may be initiated, a high index of suspicion for pulmonary metastatic embolization must be maintained. early histologic identification of these metastatic emboli and initiation of effective chemotherapy may prove beneficial for improved quality of life.
suicide in twins. suicide appears to cluster in families, suggesting that genetic factors may play a role in this behavior. we studied 176 twin pairs in which one or both twins had committed suicide. seven of the 62 monozygotic twin pairs were concordant for suicide compared with two of the 114 dizygotic twin pairs (11.3% vs 1.8%). the presence of psychiatric disorder in the twins and their families was examined in a subsample of 11 twin pairs, two of whom were concordant for suicide. eleven of these 13 twin suicide victims had been treated for psychiatric disorder, as had eight of their nine surviving cotwins. in addition, twins in 10 pairs had other first- or second-degree relatives who had been treated for psychiatric disorder. thus, these twin data suggest that genetic factors related to suicide may largely represent a genetic predisposition for the psychiatric disorders associated with suicide. however, they leave open the question of whether there may be an independent genetic component for suicide.
mean arterial blood pressure changes in premature infants and those at risk for intraventricular hemorrhage. bedside microcomputer-derived, minute-to-minute mean arterial pressure (map) values during the first 48 hours of life were studied in 100 preterm babies with birth weight less than or equal to 1500 gm. in those babies (n = 72) with no periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage (pv-ivh) or with grade 1 pv-ivh, the map values increased during the study period, with minute-to-minute variation and interval undulation. the map values in those with birth weight greater than 1000 gm were higher than in those of lower birth weight. infants in whom grades 2 to 4 pv-ivh developed (n = 28) had consistently lower map values during the study period. minute-to-minute variability, expressed as the average of the coefficients of variation at 15-minute intervals, did not differ between birth weight groups, nor did they differ between the pv-ivh group and their matched control subjects. however, those with pv-ivh spent a greater percentage of time, with a coefficient of variation greater than or equal to 13% or less than 3%, than their matched control subjects spent (p less than 0.005). this study provides reference data for map changes in premature babies. the observed map changes in those with pv-ivh lend support to a significant role for map alterations in the pathogenesis of pv-ivh.
preperitoneal herniorrhaphy for the acutely incarcerated groin hernia. elective preperitoneal or posterior repair for recurrent groin hernias and primary femoral hernias has been shown to be a technically advantageous approach. in addition to the ease of inguinal floor and femoral canal assessment, scar tissue from prior anterior herniorrhaphy can be avoided. the emergency management of the acutely incarcerated or strangulated hernia of the groin using this approach has not been addressed. during a 30-month period, all patients with a diagnosis of acute incarceration of a groin hernia (n = 28) were surgically managed using either the anterior approach (aa) (n = 14) or the preperitoneal approach (pa) (n = 14). two patients with strangulated intestine in the aa group required an additional midline incision for bowel evaluation and resection. intestinal evaluation was easily accomplished through the same incision in four patients in the pa group. the preperitoneal approach also allowed proximal control of incarcerated or strangulated viscera, thus avoiding excessive manipulation of gangrenous or necrotic intestine, potential spillage of infected contents into the peritoneal cavity, and entry of bacteria, toxins, potassium, and the metabolic waste products of anaerobic metabolism into the systemic circulation during hernia reduction. there have been no recurrences in either group, and minor complications, such as wound infection and cellulitis, in the two groups are not statistically different.
the genetics of retinoblastoma. relevance to the patient. the understanding of the molecular biology of human cancer has advanced rapidly in the last decade, in part due to discoveries in the rare, pediatric ocular tumor, retinoblastoma. rb studies have led to recognition of a class of human genes, the tumor suppressor genes, that are critical in the initiation and progression of the malignant process. mutations in the rb1 gene initiate rb and other specific tumors. they may also contribute to progressive stages of many other malignancies. the protein product of rb1 (p110rb1) is a basic regulator of the cell cycle. in the absence of normal protein, the cell proceeds to the next cell division without the potential to become quiescent. understanding the genetics of rb has benefited the patients, as the precise identification of the rb1 mutations in families has led to accurate prediction of individuals at risk for rb tumors. it seems unlikely, in the foreseeable future, that direct genetic manipulation of mutant rb1 genes will play a role in therapy, but complete understanding of the function of p110rb1 may eventually allow exploitation of its powerful antiproliferative effect. other molecular genetic events in addition to rb1 mutations are documented in rb tumors, and may play a critical role in the full malignant phenotype. the oncogene, n-myc, is amplified in some rb tumors and is expressed in normal fetal retina. the cytogenetic abnormality, i(6p), is almost unique to rb tumors. the molecular and tissue-specific roles of these abnormalities are not yet known. many rb tumors also acquire excessive expression of the cell surface membrane glycoprotein, p170, linked to multidrug resistance, whether or not the rb tumor has been exposed to chemotherapy. we anticipate that ways to avoid or counteract the drug resistance of excessive p170 expression will be developed for other pediatric tumors and eventually will be applied to chemotherapy for rb patients.
electrocardiographic abnormalities in cerebrovascular accidents. the electrocardiographic abnormalities found in 100 patients with acute cerebrovascular disease and previously normal hearts are described. the abnormalities were more often seen in patients with intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhages. the most common changes were q-tc prolongation and st segment and t wave abnormalities. the mechanisms of these electrocardiographic abnormalities appear to be multiple.
who is being screened for melanoma/skin cancer? characteristics of persons screened in massachusetts. we conducted a survey of persons who voluntarily attended melanoma/skin cancer screenings in massachusetts in 1987. of 1219 persons asked to fill out a questionnaire, 1116 (92%) completed it. our study demonstrates that persons attending the melanoma/skin cancer screening program were, for the most part, at risk for the disease and appropriately selected themselves to be screened. most were women, well educated (with college or advanced degrees), and white. more than 86% had at least one risk factor for melanoma/skin cancer whereas 78% had at least two risk factors. future studies are necessary to determine whether our experience can be verified. additional efforts should try to attract those who are at risk but perhaps are less willing to attend screening programs--men and those of lower socioeconomic status. these efforts can help target screening to those at highest risk and maximize the yield of these public health efforts.
a prospective randomized study of cerebrospinal fluid drainage to prevent paraplegia after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta. this article is concerned with the study of the effect of several variables, principally that of cerebrospinal fluid drainage, on the incidence of neurologic deficit in a prospective randomized series of patients with extensive aneurysms of the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta (thoracoabdominal type i and ii). forty-six patients had cerebrospinal fluid drainage, and 52 were controls, with a total of 98 available for study. cerebrospinal fluid pressure was continuously monitored in the former group and pressure maintained less than or equal to 10 mm hg in 20, less than or equal to 15 mm hg in 20, and greater than 15 mm hg in 6 patients during period of aortic clamping. the method of treatment including reattachment of intercostal and lumbar arteries (p = 0.2), temporary atriofemoral bypass during aortic occlusion (p = 0.3), and spinal fluid drainage (p = 0.8) were not statistically significant in reducing the incidence of neurologic deficits. thus cerebrospinal fluid drainage as we used it, was not beneficial in preventing paraplegia. on appropriate statistical analysis we found that the only significant predictor of delayed deficits was postoperative hypotension (p = 0.006).
coronary bypass grafting with totally calcified or acutely dissected ascending aorta. from august 1984 through november 1988, 10 of 2,658 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting had ascending aortic disease that was not amenable to proximal anastomoses for coronary bypass grafting. this was due to a calcified aorta in 6 and acute aortic dissection in 4. there were 5 male and 5 female patients with a mean age of 71 years. cannulation site was the femoral artery in 5, ascending aorta in 3, and aortic arch in 2. profound hypothermia and ventricular fibrillation, with no cross-clamp or cardioplegia, was used in 9 patients, and circulatory arrest in 1. in 8 patients a single internal mammary artery was used as the total inflow with a saphenous vein graft brought off the internal mammary artery to one or more distal left-sided coronary vessels. bilateral internal mammary arteries were used in 2 other patients. operative mortality was zero. there was one perioperative myocardial infarction and one transient stroke without sequelae. all patients have done well from 1 to 6 years postoperatively. these data support the use of internal mammary arteries as single or bilateral proximal conduits for other venoarterial bypass grafts when the aorta is extensively diseased either by calcification or dissection.
cardiac rhabdomyoma. rare cause of fetal death. two cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and fetal death associated with cardiac rhabdomyoma are reported. case 1 presented with fetal supraventricular tachycardia, and cardiac rhabdomyoma was accurately diagnosed by fetal echocardiography. autopsy revealed multiple rhabdomyomata involving the right atrial free wall, the sinoatrial node, and the left ventricle. the left circumflex coronary artery was extrinsically compressed by adjacent tumor tissue, causing left ventricular myocardial infarction. case 2 had a unique, pedunculated, ball-like rhabdomyoma that almost totally occluded the mitral orifice. the causes of fetal death in patients with cardiac rhabdomyoma are analyzed and the possibility of fetal surgical management is proposed.
popliteal vascular trauma. a community experience. preventing amputation continues to be a significant challenge when popliteal vascular injuries occur. a retrospective review of cases from the san diego county (california) trauma system identified 108 patients with 76 blunt and 32 penetrating arterial injuries. the limb preservation rate was 88%; there were 13 amputations. the fracture-dislocated knee injury and close-range shotgun blasts were particularly limb threatening. in general, the trauma system achieved rapid evaluation of injuries and early operative intervention. all 13 patients who underwent amputations presented with signs of severe ischemia. concomitant injuries to the popliteal vein, tibial nerves, and soft tissue were significantly more frequent in patients who underwent amputations. the importance of complete fasciotomy for compartment hypertension, early reconstructive management of soft-tissue injuries, and expeditious arterial repair, frequently without preoperative roentgenographic suite arteriography, is emphasized. an aggressive, multidisciplinary approach is required to achieve a functional extremity when popliteal vascular trauma occurs.
reduced atrial contribution to left ventricular filling in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation after tricuspid valvulectomy: a doppler echocardiographic study. patients undergoing valvulectomy for isolated tricuspid valve endocarditis offer the unique opportunity to study the effects of acquired right ventricular volume overload on left ventricular filling in persons free of pulmonary hypertension and preexisting left heart disease. eleven patients who had undergone total or partial removal of the tricuspid valve were compared with 11 age-matched control subjects; doppler echocardiographic techniques were used to quantify changes in left ventricular filling and to relate them to changes in left ventricular and left atrial geometry caused by right ventricular and right atrial distension. the late diastolic fractional transmitral flow velocity integral, a measure of the left atrial contribution to left ventricular filling, was significantly decreased in patients undergoing tricuspid valvulectomy compared with control subjects (0.22 +/- 0.11 versus 0.32 +/- 0.09; p less than 0.04). severe tricuspid regurgitation in these patients resulted in marked right atrial distension, reversal of the normal interatrial septal curvature and compression of the left atrium such that left atrial area was significantly smaller than in control subjects (5.9 +/- 2.2 versus 8.6 +/- 1.2 cm2/m2; p less than 0.005). acting as a receiving chamber, the left ventricle was maximally compressed by the volume-overloaded right ventricle in late diastole, coincident with the timing of atrial systole, resulting in a significant increase in the left ventricular eccentricity index compared with that in control subjects (1.35 +/- 0.14 versus 1.03 +/- 0.1; p less than 0.001). thus, right ventricular volume overload due to severe tricuspid regurgitation results in left heart geometric alterations that decrease left atrial preload, impair left ventricular receiving chamber characteristics and reduce the atrial contribution to total left ventricular filling.
identification of transforming growth factor beta family members present in bone-inductive protein purified from bovine bone. characterization of the polypeptides present in bone-inductive protein extracts from bovine bone has led to the cloning of seven regulatory molecules, six of which are distantly related to transforming growth factor beta. the three human bone morphogenetic proteins (bmps) we describe herein, bmp-5, bmp-6, and bmp-7, show extensive sequence similarity to bmp-2, a molecule that by itself is sufficient to induce de novo bone formation in vivo. the additive or synergistic contribution of these bmp-2-related molecules to the osteogenic activity associated with demineralized bone is strongly implicated by the presence of these growth factors in the most active fractions of highly purified bone extract.
panic disorder in seizure patients: a diagnostic pitfall. panic disorder is a psychiatric diagnosis whose main feature is paroxysmal attacks of anxiety that strike suddenly without apparent provocation. physicians explain the attacks as an ictal phenomenon in patients with known seizures because of their similarities to complex partial seizures. we report eight patients with seizures and panic disorder. recognition of a second diagnostic entity resulted in a beneficial change in treatment in six of the eight. we did not find an increased incidence of panic disorder in our seizure clinic population as compared with the general population.
anterior perforations in lumbar discectomies. a report of four cases of vascular complications and a ct study of the prevertebral lumbar anatomy. four cases of vascular complications to anterior perforations during discectomy prompted a ct study to measure lumbar disc diameters and to evaluate the prevertebral anatomy. fifty young adults who had been referred for low-back pain and/or sciatica but had not undergone operation were included. in five additional patients, prone versus supine ct examinations were compared. six typical configurations of the vascular anatomy could be classified to explain the type of vascular complications occurring at the l3-4 and l4-l5 disc levels. the sagittal diameter of the three lowest lumbar discs varied from 33 to 56 mm, indicating the importance of this parameter as an intraoperative guideline for the spine surgeon. air-filled intestines were observed anterior to the l5-s1 disc predominantly in the prone position. the possible relationship between this finding and postoperative discitis is discussed.
a syndrome characterized by nodular eosinophilic infiltration of the skin and immunoglobulin isotype imbalance. a 9-year-old boy had recurrent acute, plaquelike, nodular infiltrations with overlying vesicles and bullae of the face and right hand. histologically, the lesions consisted of a perivascular and periadnexal lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with many eosinophils. the lesions responded to dapsone therapy. laboratory studies revealed blood eosinophilia, hyperimmunoglobulinemias e and g4, and hypoimmunoglobulinemias m and g1-3, which normalized after treatment. the patient's immune deviation is consistent with a transient imbalance of lymphokine production in helper t cells.
continuous removal of middle molecules by hemofiltration in patients with acute liver failure. in patients with acute liver failure and hepatic coma, an increase in the abnormal "middle molecules" seen on the chromatograms of the sera is suspected of playing an etiologic role in the coma. a pilot study of continuous hemofiltration using a high-performance membrane was conducted in 16 such patients in an attempt to decrease the serum levels of the middle molecules. the procedure was used alternately with plasma exchange. high-performance liquid chromatography showed a notable removal of the substances in the filtrates and a sequential removal from the serum by hemofiltration. eight (50%) of the 16 patients had amelioration in level of consciousness and were weaned successfully from hemofiltration. although only three of the 16 patients survived the acute illness, 13 others lived an average of 15 days and five patients survived greater than 3 wk. while the continuous removal of middle molecules from the serum may not reverse liver failure, this procedure used in conjunction with plasma exchange may provide a means of life support, e.g., for patients awaiting a liver transplant.
pleuroperitoneal shunting for intractable pleural effusions. pleuroperitoneal shunts were implanted in 17 patients with intractable pleural effusions, 15 of which were malignant and 2 benign. complicating factors included 13 instances of severe trapped lung and 3 cases of synchronous ascites. there was one hospital death. palliation of dyspnea at rest was achieved in all patients, although 3 required oxygen with exertion. four shunts became occluded between 1 and 10 months after placement. two of these were replaced. the remaining conduits continued to function to the present or until the patients' deaths between 1 and 28 months. shunting allowed hospital discharge and provided symptomatic relief in a group of patients in whom other approaches had failed or were not applicable.
study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques. the status of hepatitis b virus dna was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis. this liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. the results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis b core and surface antigens. there was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis b viral dna by in situ hybridization and absence of hbc and hbsag in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. these results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature.
the epidemiology of ophthalmic malignancies in new york state. the epidemiologic characteristics of more than 1400 primary eye cancers (icd-9, site 190) diagnosed among new york state (nys) residents between 1975 and 1986 are described. among nys male residents, the average annual age-adjusted incidence rate was 7.5 per 1,000,000, and among nys female residents, the rate was 5.4 per 1,000,000 (male:female rate ratio, 1.39). the majority of ophthalmic malignancies were included within three histologic groupings: melanomas (70.4%), retinoblastomas (9.8%), and squamous cell carcinomas (9.2%). the average annual incidence of retinoblastoma among persons in nys who were less than 5 years of age was 9.5 per 1,000,000 for boys and 8.7 per 1,000,000 for girls (male:female rate ratio, 1.09). the average annual incidence (age-adjusted) of ocular melanomas was 4.9 per 1,000,000 among men and 3.7 per 1,000,000 among women in nys (male:female rate ratio, 1.32). expanded knowledge of the epidemiology of ophthalmic cancers can help to develop a foundation on which to monitor disease patterns and can serve to stimulate further etiologic research involving these rare malignancies.
chronic pain in primary care. identification and management of psychosocial factors. chronic pain is a problem of great public health importance that is frequently seen in the primary care setting. pain chronicity shows a strong association with psychosocial factors. assessment of these factors should be composed of two parts: (1) psychological factors and (2) psychiatric illness. psychological factors include all those pain-associated alterations in the patient's environment that reinforce illness behavior. psychiatric illness includes those syndromes that retard recovery from illness or injury, such as depression, anxiety, substance abuse, and dementia. psychiatric and psychological interventions can be successfully introduced in the context of a comprehensive rehabilitation effort. usually these interventions can be accomplished by the family physician in concert with a consultant psychiatrist or psychologist. in severely disabled or resistant patients, referral to a multidisciplinary pain clinic will be necessary.
surgical resection of intrinsic brain stem lesions: an overview. a major limitation to the effective treatment of intrinsic mass lesions of the brain stem has been the inability to clearly define the pathological anatomy radiographically. the improved soft tissue resolution offered by magnetic resonance imaging, as compared with axial computed tomography, now makes it possible not only to accurately distinguish anatomical relationships, but also to predict the pathological nature of the lesion. accordingly, we have been encouraged to pursue a more aggressive approach to intrinsic lesions of the brain stem that appear well circumscribed on magnetic resonance imaging scan. the object of this paper is to report the successful treatment of four intrinsic lesions of the brain stem and to present an overview of the relevant published experience.
immunohistochemical studies on the main entrance-route of ca19-9 into the peripheral venous blood of gastric cancer patients. correlation with ca19-9 levels in peripheral and portal blood. the correlation between ca19-9 levels of portal and peripheral venous blood, and immunohistochemical variables of cancer lesions was examined in 53 gastric cancer patients and eight patients with benign diseases. immunohistochemically, ca19-9 was found in 33 (62.5%) of 53 primary lesions. the antigen was found in the cancer cells of invasive lymphatics and node metastases of every ca19-9 localized cancer, although the cancer cells in veins showed little or no ca19-9. there was little or no antigen in the cancer cells in veins, lymphatics, or metastases of 20 ca19-9 nonlocalized primary lesions. patients with ca19-9 nonlocalized cancer or with benign diseases showed no elevation of the antigen levels in peripheral or portal blood. ca19-9 levels of portal blood (mean, 76.4 u/ml; positive rate, 33.3%) were not different from those of peripheral blood (mean, 91.5 u/ml; positive rate, 33.3%). additionally, the antigen levels of the blood in patients with lymphatic invasion or node metastases were significantly higher than those in patients without the invasion or the metastases, and every patient without the invasion showed no elevation of the antigen. these results suggest that production of the antigen in cancer cells may be a premise of ca19-9 elevation in peripheral blood and that ca19-9 may be drained by the thoracic duct of the lymphatic system via node metastases or invasive lymphatics, but not by the hematogenous portal system.
the value of push-type jejunal endoscopy in familial adenomatosis coli/gardner's syndrome. push-type jejunal endoscopy using a long forward-viewing duodenofiberscope was performed in 10 patients with familial adenomatosis coli/gardner's syndrome. jejunal polypoid lesions were detected in nine of the 10 patients (90%). the lesions appeared sessile, whitish, and measured 3 mm or less in diameter. histologic findings of the biopsy specimens from these polypoid lesions revealed tubular adenoma in all nine patients. in addition, this method led to the detection of duodenal adenomas in one patient, in whom duodenofiberscopy with the side-viewing instrument revealed no polypoid lesions in the bulb and second portion of the duodenum. in view of these results, we recommend that push-type jejunal endoscopy, as well as side-viewing duodenofiberscopy, should be added to the usual preoperative examinations done in patients with this disease.
expression of x protein and hepatitis b virus replication in chronic hepatitis. the x protein can act on the enhancer of hepatitis b virus in an in vitro system and elevate the transcriptional level of hepatitis b virus. however, because no relationship had been reported between x protein expression and hepatitis b virus replication in patients with chronic hepatitis b, we focused on its expression in the liver in comparison with markers of hepatitis b virus replication. liver biopsy samples and sera from 59 carriers with hbsag were examined immunohistochemically for x protein using rabbit igg against recombinant x protein. there was a significant difference in the serum hepatitis b virus dna level between x protein-positive and -negative patients (p less than 0.001). serum pre-s1 and pre-s2 antigens were also measured quantitatively by enzyme immunoassay using monoclonal antibodies specific against each antigen. the titers of pre-s1 antigen in patients positive for x protein were significantly higher (p less than 0.001) than those of the x protein-negative patients (3.02 +/- 0.99 vs. 2.00 +/- 0.59, respectively). similarly, the titers of pre-s2 antigen were 2.98 +/- 0.91 vs. 1.94 +/- 0.54, respectively (p less than 0.001). the rate of positivity of the x protein was higher (38 of 49; 77.6%) in the replicative group (serum hbeag, serum hepatitis b virus dna or hbcag in liver positive) compared with that observed in the nonreplicative group (3 of 10; 30%--serum hbeag, serum hepatitis b virus dna and hbcag in liver negative) (p less than 0.01).
effect of ethanol on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure as a treatment for obstructive sleep apnea. the effect of ethanol ingestion on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nasal cpap) as a treatment for the obstructive sleep apnea (osa) syndrome was studied in ten obese male subjects undergoing this therapy. on the first night of polysomnography, the lowest level of cpap that maintained airway patency was determined (critical level). on the second (control) night (c), subjects slept the entire night on this level of cpap. on the third night (e), subjects ingested either 1.5 ml/kg (part a, n = 6) or 2.0 ml/kg (part b, n = 4) of 50 percent ethanol (100 proof vodka) over one half-hour starting 1 h before bedtime. a serum ethanol level was obtained at bedtime (part a: 63.7 +/- 17.3 mg/dl; part b: 108.6 +/- 20.6 mg/dl), and subjects were monitored on the critical level of cpap. comparison of nights c and e for parts a + b showed no difference in total sleep time (tst) or the amount of different sleep stages as an absolute time or a percentage of tst except that there was more stage 2 (as a percent of tst) on e nights. the apnea + hypopnea index and c and e nights did not differ and was quite low (3.6 +/- 3.7/h vs 1.9 +/- 2.7/h). similarly, ethanol ingestion did not increase the number of desaturations to at or below 90 and 85 percent, or lower the mean arterial oxygen saturation in nrem or rem sleep. analysis of parts a and b separately also showed no differences with respect to the apnea + hypopnea index or the number of desaturations on control and ethanol nights. we conclude that acute moderate ethanol ingestion does not decrease the efficacy of an optimum level of nasal cpap.
modified technique of pringle's maneuver in resection of the liver. crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes. pringle's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well. therefore, we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus. this vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver.
transcranial doppler ultrasonography: clinical applications in cerebrovascular disease. transcranial doppler ultrasonography was introduced in 1982 as a noninvasive procedure for assessment of the intracranial cerebral circulation. the lightweight and portable equipment used for transcranial doppler examination facilitates its use in the bedside assessment of critically ill hospitalized patients and outpatients. clinical applications include the diagnosis of vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, assessment of intracranial collateral flow in patients with extracranial arterial occlusive disease, detection of intracranial arterial stenosis, identification of the feeding arteries of arteriovenous malformations and monitoring the hemodynamic effects of their treatment, confirmation of the clinical diagnosis of brain death, intensive-care unit monitoring of brain-injured patients, and intraoperative and postoperative monitoring of neurosurgical patients. transcranial doppler technology is also providing new insights into the pathophysiologic mechanisms of a variety of cerebrovascular conditions. clinicians will find transcranial doppler technology most helpful if they have a specific question about the status of the intracranial circulation. further investigations may expand the clinical and research utility of this technology.
outpatient health care utilization of patients with inflammatory bowel disease. on the basis of the normal life expectancy of inflammatory bowel disease patients, the early onset of their disease, and the variety of symptoms, inflammatory bowel disease patients were anticipated to be frequent users of outpatients services. this study assesses (1) the characteristics, (2) outpatient health care utilization, and (3) the degree of satisfaction with health care of inflammatory bowel disease patients compared to patients with other gastrointestinal disease. the study method was a secondary analysis of data collected on 395 patients attending the university of calgary gastroenterology outpatient clinic in 1988. inflammatory bowel disease patients were significantly younger (p less than 0.001) and better educated (p less than 0.05) than other patients. during the past year inflammatory bowel disease patients consulted significantly more often with their gastroenterologist (p less than 0.001) and spent more time in hospital (p less than 0.05) than other patients. inflammatory bowel disease patients also consulted more frequently with herbalists and naturopaths. lastly, inflammatory bowel disease patients were as satisfied with the health care they received as other patients. these results provide information useful for health care planners as well as for those dealing directly with inflammatory bowel disease patients.
total bladder replacement using detubularized sigmoid colon: technique and results. we performed total bladder replacement with a detubularized segment of sigmoid colon in patients after cystoprostatectomy. the surgical technique and long-term results in 27 patients are reported. this neobladder configuration compared favorably with other neobladder types regarding ease of construction. the surgical complications were acceptable. initial reservoir function was good but improved further with time. after 1 year the capacity averaged 600 cc, pressures during filling and at capacity were low (average 12 and 16 cm. water) and emptying was satisfactory (residual urine 4 to 80 cc). all patients were continent during the day and 67% were continent at night without excessive voiding habits. nighttime incontinence was further resolved in 2 patients by using the ams 800 artificial sphincter around the bulbous urethra. the detubularized sigmoid is an excellent neobladder configuration after cystoprostatectomy.
relationship between histologic features, dna flow cytometry, and clinical behavior of squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx. flow cytometric analysis of dna content was done on 133 primary squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx. overall, 76 tumors (57.1%) were not diploid (aneuploid or tetraploid). the dna index (di) was calculated and grouped into three levels. fifty-seven cases had a di in a range of 1.85 to 2.15 (44 diploid and 13 tetraploid). the cases were grouped in relation to ploidy, proliferative index, and the tumor-node-metastasis (tnm) system. every group was analyzed with respect to survival rate. ploidy was related to histocytologic grade. in well-differentiated tumors (g1) survival rates at 48 months were 41.7% in diploid cases and 27.7% in nondiploid ones (relative risk [rr], 2.01; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.89, 4.52). in no cases that underwent surgery, survival rates at 48 months were, respectively, 81.8% and 49.2% (rr, 5.07; 95% ci, 0.76, 33.93). these results suggest that ploidy may be a new independent parameter of prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. this is useful in clinical practice because it allows the clinician to recognize those cases with poorer prognosis among the early tumors at a stage where other prognostic parameters are not yet available.
automated immunohistochemical estrogen receptor in fixed embedded breast carcinomas. the authors immunohistochemically assessed the presence of estrogen receptor (er) in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 68 breast carcinomas by an automated method using pronase (calbiochem, la jolla, ca) predigestion and alkaline phosphatase detection (method 1). these results were compared with those obtained by an automated peroxidase-antiperoxidase method with dnase pretreatment of fixed embedded sections (method 2), with er immunostain on frozen sections (method 3), and with biochemical results (dextran-coated charcoal cytosolic [dcc] assay). compared with the dcc assay, methods 1, 2, and 3 gave sensitivities of 54%, 25%, and 89%, respectively. the sensitivity for method 1 was increased to 74% in those cases with dcc results showing greater than 50 fmol/mg protein. these findings indicate that er immunohistochemical studies on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues (as assayed by method 1) provide useful clinical information when the results are positive. a negative result, especially if surrounding normal elements are not positive, may indicate no receptors, receptor levels less than 50 fmol/mg protein, or improper tissue preservation. in the absence of fresh tissue for er assay by dcc assay or of frozen sections for immunostaining, and with an understanding of its limitations, this method may be useful.
interventricular coronary steal induced by stenosis of left anterior descending coronary artery in exercising pigs. background. in pigs and humans, the left anterior descending coronary artery (lad) supplies the left ventricular anterior wall (lvaw), anterior septum, and paraseptal band of the right ventricular anterior wall (rvaw). the purposes of our study were 1) to study the lad flow distribution in these walls during preexercise, exercise, and exercise with lad stenosis and 2) to analyze regional wall motion under these conditions. methods and results. nine pigs were instrumented with sonomicrometers for measuring percent wall thickening (%wth) in lvaw, rvaw, and lateral (control) walls of both ventricles, a hydraulic occluder at the lad origin, an lv pressure transducer, and catheters for radioactive microsphere injection (left atrium) and blood withdrawal (aorta). one month later, regional %wth and flows were measured during preexercise, exercise, and continuing exercise with lad stenosis resulting in more than 50% reduction in systolic lvaw %wth with regard to exercise. lad stenosis caused a dramatic decrease in total mean +/- sd lvaw subendocardial flow with regard to exercise (28.7 +/- 8 to 9.1 +/- 3.2 ml.min-1, p less than 0.0001) but not significant changes in either lvaw subepicardial flow or rvaw flow. the transmural distribution of flows within the lad bed (as percentages of the total lad flow in each experimental condition) showed that lad stenosis redistributed flows with regard to exercise such that the lvaw subendocardial flow decreased from 26.4 +/- 4.2% of the total lad flow to 11.8 +/- 4.3% (p less than 0.0001), whereas lvaw subepicardial flow increased from 32.9 +/- 2.3% of the total lad flow to 45.5 +/- 7.9% (p less than 0.0001) and rvaw increased from 12 +/- 4.9% of the total lad flow to 18.7 +/- 7.2% (p less than 0.0005). with exercise plus lad stenosis, lvaw %wth decreased from 43.2 +/- 8.4% to 17.2 +/- 9.7% (p less than 0.0001), but rvaw %wth did not change. conclusions. in the lad bed of exercising pigs, lad stenosis induces, in addition to transmural steal, an interventricular steal favoring the rvaw at the expense of the lvaw subendocardium. this steal results in preserved rvaw thickening despite severe lvaw hypokinesia.
omeprazole 20 mg three days a week and 10 mg daily in prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse. double-blind comparative trial. in a double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial of 195 patients with duodenal ulcers who after a short-term study had relief of pain and healed ulcers proved endoscopically, 65 were randomized to receive 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week (once in the morning from friday to sunday), 64 to receive 10 mg omeprazole once daily in the morning, and 66 to receive placebo for up to 6 months. the patients underwent repeat endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric fundic mucosa (qualitative assessment of argyrophilic cell population), assessment of symptoms, and laboratory screening with measurement of basal serum gastrin concentrations at 3 and 6 months or more often if indicated by recurrence of symptoms. at 3 months, endoscopically proved ulcer relapse occurred in 16% receiving 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week; 21% receiving 10 mg omeprazole daily; and 50% receiving placebo. at 6 months, corresponding rates were 23%, 27%, and 67% with 95% confidence intervals of difference between the placebo group and omeprazole groups of 28%-60% and 24%-56% (p less than 0.00001), respectively, and between omeprazole groups of -19%-11% (ns). no major clinical or laboratory side effects were noted. thus both omeprazole regimens are effective and safe in preventing duodenal ulcer relapse.
neoadjuvant cis-ddp in esophageal cancers: an experience at a regional cancer centre, india. we are analysing the results of 80 patients who underwent surgery during 1983-84 for esophageal cancer. forty patients who received pre-operative single agent cis-ddp were grouped under "a" and 40 patients who went for surgery directly were grouped under "b". twenty-two patients (55%) of group a showed tumor necrosis. both groups underwent resection and hand-sewn anastamosis of the esophagus. there were 10 post-operative deaths among 80 resected cases, 9 of them being from anastomatic leak. cis-ddp has induced negligible side effects. a comparatively high survival rate during early years in patients who responded to cis-ddp suggests that neoadjuvant chemotherapy might be of value.
brush cytology in the diagnosis of colonic neoplasms. during a three-year period (1986-1988), 234 colonic brush specimens were received in the authors' laboratory. nine samples (4%) were deemed unsatisfactory for evaluation because of inadequate cellularity and/or poor fixation. in 11 cases concomitant or follow-up histologic specimens were not available. the remaining 214 specimens included 82 malignant neoplasms, 88 neoplastic polyps (adenomas), and 44 nonneoplastic lesions. sixty-seven (82%) of malignant neoplasms were correctly diagnosed by brush cytology. three cases of adenoma with severe dysplasia or in situ carcinoma were diagnosed as adenocarcinoma by cytology. no false-positive diagnoses were made of nonneoplastic lesions. brush cytology was found to be a more sensitive technique in the diagnosis of colon cancer than endoscopic biopsy (82% and 74% sensitivity, respectively). the combination of the two techniques increased the sensitivity to 90% and improved the overall accuracy of the test. seventy-one (82%) of the colonic adenomas were correctly diagnosed by cytology. brush cytology is a convenient, safe, and accurate technique which should be used concurrently with endoscopic biopsy or polypectomy.
freezing lesions of the developing rat brain: a model for cerebrocortical microgyria. cerebrocortical microgyri were induced by placing a freezing probe on the skull of p0 and p1 rat pups. freezing lesions resulted in laminar necrosis of the infragranular layers and the subsequent migration of supragranular neurons through the region of damage. the result was most often a region of four-layered microgyric cortex consisting of a molecular layer, a thickened layer ii, a lamina dissecans (corresponding to the necrotized layers iv, v, and via), and a neuronal layer iv which corresponded to layer vib of the intact cortex. immunocytochemical investigation of the microgyric cortex with antibodies to neurofilament, glial fibrillary acidic protein and glutamate showed more widespread disruption of neocortical architecture than could be seen from nissl preparations. in contrast, vasoactive intestinal peptide-containing neuronal bodies appeared to be distributed normally in the microgyric region although their processes were sometimes distorted. these results are considered in the light of previous research on induced microgyria, and possible implications for the behavioral consequences of focal, developmental neuropathologic lesions are discussed.
pharyngeal shape and dimensions in healthy subjects, snorers, and patients with obstructive sleep apnoea. to characterise the relation between pharyngeal anatomy and sleep related disordered breathing, 17 men with complaints of snoring were studied by all night polysomnography. ten of them had obstructive sleep apnoea (mean (sd) apnoea-hypopnoea index 56.3 (41.7), age 52 (10) years, body mass index 31.4 (5.3) kg/m2); whereas seven were simple snorers (apnoea-hypopnoea index 6.7 (4.6), age 40 (17) years, body mass index 25.9 (4.3) kg/m2). the pharynx was studied by magnetic resonance imaging in all patients and in a group of eight healthy subjects (age 27 (6) years, body mass index 21.8 (2.2) kg/m2, both significantly lower than in the patients; p less than 0.05). on the midsagittal section and six transverse sections equally spaced between the nasopharynx and the hypopharynx several anatomical measurements were performed. results showed that there was no difference between groups in most magnetic resonance imaging measurements, but that on transverse sections the pharyngeal cross section had an elliptic shape with the long axis oriented in the coronal plane in normal subjects, whereas in apnoeic and snoring patients the pharynx was circular or had an elliptic shape but with the long axis oriented in the sagittal plane. it is suggested that the change in pharyngeal cross sectional shape, secondary to a reduction in pharyngeal transverse diameter, may be related to the risk of developing sleep related disordered breathing.
typhlitis due to balantidium coli in captive lowland gorillas. typhlitis caused by balantidium coli and requiring surgical resection occurred in three captive lowland gorillas over a 30-month period. not one of the other gorillas in the colony or their keepers was ill. b. coli is distributed widely geographically and widely among mammals. asymptomatic commensalism predominates, but invasion of the colonic mucosa can produce diarrhea and dysentery and set the stage for local or systemic spread.
open reduction and fixation of proximal humeral fractures and fracture-dislocations. open reduction and internal fixation was employed in the treatment of 25 severely displaced fractures and fracture-dislocations of the proximal humerus. our aims were accurate reduction and stable fixation to allow early mobilisation and to achieve full functional recovery. in 15 fractures an ao t-plate was used and in 10 a bent semitubular plate was employed as a blade plate. excellent or satisfactory results were obtained in all six patients with two-part fractures involving the surgical neck; in four of the five patients with three-part fractures involving the surgical neck and tuberosities; in nine of the 11 patients with fracture-dislocation; and in two of the three patients with split fractures of the humeral head. overall results were good or satisfactory in 21 of the 25 cases. unsatisfactory results were associated with rotator cuff damage.
castor bean intoxication. we report the cases of a child who ingested two or more castor beans and two adults who each ingested four beans. all three patients developed severe gastroenteritis and recovered without sequelae after receiving iv fluids. the literature contains reports of 424 cases of castor bean intoxication. symptoms of intoxication include acute gastroenteritis, fluid and electrolyte depletion, gastrointestinal bleeding, hemolysis, and hypoglycemia. delayed cytotoxicity has not been reported. of the 424 patients, 14 died (mortality rates: 8.1% of untreated and 0.4% of treated). deaths were due to hypovolemic shock. recommended treatment for asymptomatic patients who have chewed one or more raw beans is emergency department evaluation, gastric decontamination, administration of activated charcoal, observation until four to six hours after ingestion, and discharge instructions to return if symptoms develop. after decontamination and activated charcoal, symptomatic patients require hospitalization for treatment with iv fluids, supportive care, and monitoring for hypoglycemia, hemolysis, and complications of hypovolemia. monitoring for delayed cytotoxicity is unnecessary. castor beans and their dust are highly allergenic and may cause anaphylaxis.
repetitive intraoperative mapping and cryotherapy improve the results of endocardial resection for ventricular tachycardia. patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or a history of a sudden cardiac death episode and ventricular tachycardia inducible in the electrophysiology laboratory have a high incidence of recurrence and a high mortality despite medical therapy. map-guided endocardial resection has improved treatment results, but is associated with a 10-30% failure rate. in our initial experience with endocardial resection (group i) we incurred a 30% treatment failure rate. in the present study we have found the addition of sequential intraoperative mapping and routine use of cryotherapy (group ii) improved our results of ventricular tachycardia control without significant additional morbidity or mortality.
increasing prevalence of gallstones in male veterans with alcoholic cirrhosis. cases of alcoholic cirrhosis identified at necropsy were studied for the prevalence and type of gallstones, compared with age- and race-matched autopsy controls. data were examined from 1970-1977 and 1980-1987. in the early sample of 460 cirrhotic patients, 33% had gallstone disease, contrasted with 12% in the controls. in the 1980s, among 299 patients, 46% had gallstone disease, whereas it was present in 13% of the controls. the prevalence of stones was significantly greater in the patients than in the controls for both time periods and, among the patients, was significantly greater in the 1980s than in the 1970s (p less than 0.05). a comparison of cirrhotic patients with and without gallstones indicated a significantly higher incidence of ascites in the patients with gallstones. the gallstones in cirrhotics were more frequently pigmented than in the controls in both time periods. in 100 living patients with advanced cirrhosis studied by sonography during 1987 and 1989, the prevalence of gallstones was 43%, almost the same as the autopsy sample from 1980-1987. in these cirrhotics, ascites, encephalopathy, and varices were more prevalent in the patients with stones than those without. we conclude that pigmented gallstones are increasing in cirrhosis of the liver related to the severity of the liver disease.
congenital dilatation of the bile duct in 100 instances and its relationship with anomalous junction [published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 mar;172(3):246] congenital dilatation of the bile duct (cdbd) or choledochal cyst has been demonstrated to be associated with an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system. multifarious clinical signs and symptoms of cdbd have been shown to be closely related with the presence of this anomalous junction. in the present study, 100 instances of cdbd treated surgically at our institutions during a 30 year period were classified into two types according to the morphologic features of dilatation of the bile duct; there were 77 instances of the cystic type and 23 of the cylindric type. morphologic features of the lesion, clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory findings in these 100 instances were clinically analyzed. in almost all of the patients who were less than one year of age, the disease was of the cystic type and patients presented with either a palpable mass or jaundice as the main symptom. in patients more than one year of age, the disease was of either the cystic or cylindric type. a history of episodes of characteristic abdominal pain accompanied by elevated levels of serum amylase was present in 70 of the patients with the cystic type of disease and in all of the patients with the cylindric type. histologic sections from the patients showed glandular formation with chronic inflammation, possibly a result of refluxed activated pancreatic juice; in contrast, histologic sections from the remaining patients of all ages showed only thickening of the fibrous layer. thus, such variable morphologic features and clinical signs and symptoms in cdbd are highly dependent on two factors--the age at onset and the reflux of pancreatic juice into the bile duct through the common channel.
striatonigral degeneration. a clinicopathological study. the clinical and pathological features of 10 cases of striatonigral degeneration are described: 5 were misdiagnosed in life as parkinson's disease. retrospectively, helpful early pointers to the diagnosis in these cases included unexplained falls, autonomic dysfunction, absence of rest tremor and failure to respond to l-dopa, but these were not always present. the pathological diagnosis could not be excluded on macroscopic examination of the striatum. relative preservation of the putamen occurred in the 4 patients who benefited from l-dopa. the caudate nucleus was involved in all cases and there was no sparing of the large striatal neurons. in mild cases, involvement of the putamen was confined to its posterior two-thirds, dorsolaterally. with increasing severity this extended in a dorsal to ventral and posterior to anterior direction. seven of the cases had evidence of olivopontocerebellar damage, but only 2 of these had clinical evidence of cerebellar disease. correlation was found between the neuronal counts in caudate:putamen, striatum:nigra compacta, globus pallidus:nigra compacta, nigra compacta:locus coeruleus. the most severely involved part of the substantia nigra pars compacta was the ventrolateral zone, which projects to the dorsal putamen, the earliest site of striatal disease.
gastric emptying in infants and children: limited utility of 1-hour measurement. gastric emptying measurements were performed in infants and children at 1 and 2 hours after a liquid feeding. the 1-hour measurements were predictive of only 58% of the variability in the 2-hour measurements, indicating that the 1-hour measurement was not a good predictor of the 2-hour measurement. gastric emptying measurements in children should be continued until 2 hours after feeding unless rapid emptying is observed during the 1st hour of the study.
anxiety and depression in patients with chronic urticaria and generalized pruritus. thirty-four dermatology out-patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and 34 with idiopathic generalized pruritus were investigated using standardized self-assessment psychological questionnaires to determine the incidence of significant symptoms of depression and anxiety. these patients were compared with age- and sex-matched but otherwise unselected general dermatology out-patients. using the beck depression inventory, significantly more patients with generalized pruritus (32.4%) had depressive symptomatology (score greater than 14) than controls (13.2%, p less than 0.05). although more patients with chronic urticaria had depressive symptomatology (14.7%) than controls (4.4%), the difference was not statistically significant. using the speilberger state-trait anxiety inventory there were no significant differences between the patients with pruritus or urticaria and their controls with respect to state or trait anxiety scores above the upper 90% probability limit for the general population. thus, significant depression may be expected in a substantial proportion of patients with idiopathic generalized pruritus but in a relatively small proportion of those with chronic urticaria.
fungal brain abscesses (aspergillosis/mucormycosis) in two immunosuppressed patients. although the mortality rate for fungal brain abscesses in immunosuppressed patients remains unacceptably high, this figure may be reduced if computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging scans are performed more promptly in susceptible individuals with seemingly mild intracranial complaints. earlier presumptive amphotericin b treatment and more timely surgical debridement may minimize neurological injury and enhance survival. these assumptions were only tentatively supported by the clinical courses of two patients, one an alert patient with promyelocytic leukemia and an aspergillosis brain abscess who survived, and the other, a comatose intravenous drug abuser with mucormycosis who died.
the ver as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine. abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent, for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined. as in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence. by recording the fast wave activity (beta rhythmn) in the visual evoked response (ver) to red and white flash, the pattern stimulation, 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls, outside the attack phase. comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed, from the ver findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity, that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine. we found that both clinically and electrophysiologically, abdominal migraine changes with age; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks, and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the ver.
the use of molecular probes to distinguish new primary tumors from recurrent tumors in gynecologic malignancies. this is the first report using dna molecular probe technology to distinguish between recurrent tumor and a second primary malignancy in a patient. tumor dna was extracted from squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix at the time of radical hysterectomy. eighteen months later a squamous cell cancer was found in a vaginal apex biopsy from which dna was extracted. tumor dna from both lesions was subjected to restriction enzyme digestion and dna molecular hybridization with human papillomavirus (hpv) probes. although both lesions were positive for hpv 16, their respective restriction enzyme patterns had different hpv genetic arrangements, thereby demonstrating their distinctness.
preoperative superselective arteriolar embolization: a new approach to enhance resectability of spinal tumors. the extent of surgical resection of spinal tumors is frequently limited by blood loss and technical difficulty associated with the vascularity of the tumors. we report here the use of superselective percutaneous arterial embolization to reduce the rate of blood loss at the time of surgical resection and enhance resectability. the types of tumors treated were metastatic renal carcinoma, metastatic thyroid carcinoma, metastatic melanoma, and giant cell tumor of the sacrum. two of the patients required repeated embolization and surgery for recurrent symptoms. the estimated blood loss in seven of nine procedures performed on the six patients ranged from 300 to 800 ml, after which no transfusion was required. in two procedures, extensive resection of very large tumors resulted in larger losses of blood, and postoperative transfusion was necessary. no significant complications of embolization or surgery occurred. a key factor in our embolization technique is the use of microfibrillar collagen, which allows occlusion of tumor vessels as small as 20 microns and may prevent reconstitution of the embolized vessels by collateral flow. we conclude that preoperative arterial embolization enhances the resectability of a variety of spinal tumors by reducing intraoperative blood loss. this may provide an additional benefit by reducing the risk related to postoperative transfusion. by permitting a more aggressive surgical approach, the use of preoperative embolization also has the potential to improve outcome in patients with spinal tumors.
surgical approach to the retrocrural lymph nodes. removal of retrocrural lymph nodes requires an approach other than the infradiaphragmatic retroperitoneal access generally used in the surgical management of testicular tumours. the transperitoneal route given access, at best, to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, but advanced testicular tumours occasionally require retrocrural node dissection. we describe a useful surgical approach to these nodes and the underlying anatomy.
fulminant hepatitis b: induction by hepatitis b virus mutants defective in the precore region and incapable of encoding e antigen. clones of hepatitis b virus were propagated from 10 cases of fulminant hepatitis b after amplification by polymerase chain reaction and their nucleotide sequences of the precore region were determined. all 113 clones from 9 cases had a point mutation from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region, which converted codon 28 for tryptophan (tgg) to a stop codon (tag) and prohibited the synthesis and secretion of hepatitis b e antigen. precore-region defects were not detected in any of 23 clones from the remaining 1 case. by contrast, precore-region defects were not found in any of 180 clones from 8 cases of acute hepatitis b without hepatic failure serving as controls. the source of infection was traceable in 3 cases. the same precore-region defect, along with the sequence identity of 435 nucleotides, was observed in clones from the case of a baby and his grandmother, who carried the virus and was implicated in the transmission, and also in clones from two pediatricians and the carrier patients they attended. these findings support the hypothesis that precore-defective mutants have stronger activity to induce fulminant hepatitis than nondefective viruses.
abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries. the causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial. cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation, pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization. right heart (especially right ventricular) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 (81%) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 (46%) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. in contrast, only 2 (6%) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests (p less than 0.001). none of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests. cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. no relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing. thus, patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli. this increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain. the same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown.
follow-up status of patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries and panic disorder. cardiology patients with normal coronary angiography demonstrate continuing and substantial social, health, and work disability. we hypothesized that the diagnosis of panic disorder would mark those for whom continuing disability is most likely. we interviewed 72 such patients at the time of their normal angiogram, and then again an average of 38 months later. those with panic disorder (n = 36) demonstrated significantly more disability at follow-up than did the other study patients. we conclude that those patients with normal angiograms who have panic disorder are more disabled than those who do not have panic disorder. panic disorder in psychiatric samples has been shown to be highly treatable. therefore, early identification and treatment of panic disorder in this group is likely to minimize the suffering associated with this condition.
cofactors in male-female sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1. in a study of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1)-uninfected african prostitutes, 83 (67%) of 124 seroconverted to hiv-1. oral contraceptive use (odds ratio [or], 3.1; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.1-8.6; p less than .03), genital ulcers (mean annual episodes, 1.32 +/- 0.55 in seroconverting women vs. 0.48 +/- 0.21 in seronegative women; p less than .02) and chlamydia trachomatis infections (or, 3.6; ci, 1.3-11.0; p less than .02) were associated with increased risk of hiv-1 infection. condom use reduced the risk of hiv-1 infection (or, 0.11; ci, 0.05-0.27; p less than .0001). stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed independent associations between hiv-1 infection and oral contraceptive use, condom use, genital ulcers, and c. trachomatis. the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases may in part explain the heterosexual hiv-1 epidemic in africa and may represent important targets for intervention to control hiv-1 infection.
effective ultraviolet irradiation of platelet concentrates in teflon bags. several plastic materials used in blood storage were evaluated for their ability to transmit ultraviolet b (uvb) light. a plastic bag manufactured from sheets of transparent teflon efficiently (78-86%) transmitted uvb light and was employed in subsequent functional studies of lymphocytes and platelets exposed to uvb light while contained in these bags. in vitro experiments showed a uvb dose-dependent abrogation of lymphocyte responder and stimulator functions, with concurrent preservation of platelet aggregation responses. in a phase i pilot study, uvb-treated platelet concentrates were administered to four bone marrow transplant recipients. adverse effects attributable to the transfusions were not observed, and patients showed clinically effective transfusion responses. no patient developed lymphocytotoxic hla or platelet antibodies. these studies suggest that platelets can be effectively irradiated with uvb light in a closed system. however, numerous variables, including container material, volume and composition of contents, steady exposure versus agitation, and exact uv wavelength, must be considered.
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas. a case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported. attention is directed to this syndrome because, although rare, it is usually associated with oral lesions. the blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules.
esophageal motility in children with hirschsprung's disease. esophageal motility was studied in 12 children with hirschsprung's disease to see if extracolonic motor dysfunction was present in this disorder. manometric tracings were compared with those from eight children with idiopathic megacolon and from 10 children without esophageal disease or constipation. amplitude of esophageal contraction waves was significantly higher in children with hirschsprung's disease than in the other two groups. swallows that were followed by simultaneous contractions or double-peaked waves were also more common in the group with hirschsprung's disease (subjects with hirschsprung's disease, subjects with megacolon, and controls; 57%, 10%, and 8%, respectively). lower esophageal sphincter characteristics did not differ among the three groups. the increase in simultaneous contractions and double-peaked waves persisted in those children who were reexamined following surgery for hirschsprung's disease, whereas wave amplitudes fell to a level similar to that observed in the other groups. these data suggest that gastrointestinal motor dysfunction in persons with hirschsprung's disease is not restricted to the colon, and that some of the observed abnormalities in esophageal motility do not reflect nonspecific responses to megacolon or colonic obstruction.
late results of 200 repeat coronary artery bypass operations. to determine the clinical outcome and the long-term results of a second coronary artery bypass operation, we studied preoperative clinical status and catheterization data in 200 consecutive patients over a 9-year period (1979 to 1987) (mean follow up time 34 months, maximum 120). the study group included 169 men and 31 women (mean age 58.4 years [7% greater than 70 years]). sixty-four percent of patients had severe angina (new york heart association class iv), 70% had 3-vessel coronary artery disease and 21% had poor left ventricular function. reoperation was performed after a mean interval of 58 months after the first procedure. a mean of 3.3 distal anastomoses was placed. the operative mortality rate (30 days) was 7.5%, with additional cardiac morbidity (myocardial infarction, heart failure) in 11.5% of patients. multivariate analysis showed an increased risk in women (risk ratio 3.6) and in patients with poor left ventricular function (risk ratio 3.1). the cumulative 5-year survival rate was estimated at 84%, with a rate of 77% for patients with poor left ventricular function (difference not significant). the probability of remaining free of a cardiac-related event (myocardial infarction, angioplasty, third operation, cardiac death) was 64% for 5 years. at the end of follow-up, 79% of the surviving patients were in new york heart association class i or ii and nearly 50% of patients in the fifth year after the reoperation had good functional status. it is concluded that a reoperation is effective but carries an increased, immediate, operative risk.
crohn's disease of the lung two years after developing colonic crohn's disease, a 17 year old boy presented with focal pulmonary consolidation. a lung biopsy specimen showed areas of non-caseating epithelioid granuloma. although some respiratory abnormalities appear to be associated with inflammatory bowel disease, granulomatous disease affecting the lung has not previously been reported in a child.
ki-67 immunostaining in human breast tumors and its relationship to prognosis. ki-67 labeling was quantified in 37 nonmalignant breast tissues and in 63 breast carcinomas by counting ten random high-power fields each in three section planes (rc) or by evaluation of the area with the highest labeling density (hdc). both procedures proved to be highly correlated (rs = 0.94). ki-67-positive fractions of the nonmalignant tissues (mean, 2.1% for rc and 4.1% for hdc) were significantly lower as compared with the carcinomas (mean, 14.5% for rc and 17.5% for hdc). in carcinomas the ki-67 labeling was significantly associated with pt stage, axillary lymph node status, and tumor grading and inversely related to progesterone receptor status. using the medians of both counting methods (12% for rc and 17% for hdc) as cutoff points, significantly different curves for overall and disease-free survival (median follow-up, 37 months) were obtained. however, cox multivariate analysis failed to demonstrate an independent effect of ki-67 labeling. in contrast, ki-67 reactivity seems to be of independent prognostic value if a higher cutoff level was selected.
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2. interleukin-2 (il-2) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours. this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane (tx) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event. recombinant human il-2, 10(5) u (n = 7), 10(6) u (n = 9), or vehicle (n = 8) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour. at 6 hours edema, as measured by increase in wet to dry weight (w/d) ratio, was present in the heart, liver, and kidney, with 10(5) u il-2 and in the lung, heart, liver and kidney, with 10(6) u il-2, relative to values with vehicle-infused controls (all p less than 0.05). with a 1-hour infusion of 10(6) u il-2, there was an increase in plasma thromboxane (tx)b2 level to 1290 +/- 245 pg/ml, higher than 481 +/- 93 pg/ml in control rats (p less than 0.05); lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte (pmn) sequestration of 53 +/- 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields (hpf) relative to 23 +/- 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls (p less than 0.05); and increased bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) fluid protein concentration of 1970 +/- 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls (p less than 0.05). when 10(6) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus (n = 9), edema was not demonstrated, plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls, there was no leukosequestration, and bal protein levels were normal. these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema, increased plasma txb2, sequestration of pmns, and microvascular permeability. these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment.
diagnosis and management of familial dyslipoproteinemia in children and adolescents. cad results from atherosclerosis, a chronic disease process that has its origin in childhood. children and adolescents can be at higher risk for cad by virtue of being from families with premature cad or familial dyslipoproteinemias. the plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels result from a number of complex metabolic processes that are under the control of genetic and environmental (e.g., diet) influences. the normal ranges of plasma lipids and lipoproteins in children are known, and children and adolescents with dyslipoproteinemia are ordinarily defined as those having levels of plasma total, ldl, or triglyceride above the 95th percentile or with a low hdl cholesterol below the 5th percentile. children of a parent with documented dyslipoproteinemia or with family history of premature cad may be screened in the fasting state any time after 2 years of age. following the exclusion of secondary causes of dyslipoproteinemia, the diagnosis of primary dyslipoproteinemia can be made. lipoprotein patterns are not diagnostic for a given genotype. efforts to determine further the biochemical defects responsible for a given phenotype have led to the investigation of gene coding for the apolipoproteins, the key enzymes in the lipoproteins pathways (lpl, hdl, and lcat) and the receptors that process lipoproteins, such as the ldl receptor and the chylomicron remnant receptor. from a practical standpoint, the diagnosis of the kind of dyslipoproteinemia in a child will depend upon the nature and severity of the dyslipoproteinemia, both in the child (or adolescent) and in parents and siblings. marked increases in plasma total and ldl cholesterol in the child and in at least one of the parents often reflect the presence of familial hypercholesterolemia, an inherited dominant condition due to a defect in the ldl receptor gene. the triglyceride levels are often normal. if the child has a different dyslipoproteinemia pattern from siblings and parents, then the diagnosis of familial combined hyperlipidemia or hyperapobetalipoproteinemia should be considered. most children with mild or borderline elevations in total and ldl cholesterol will have polygenic hypercholesterolemia. triglyceride problems in children and adolescents are relatively uncommon, particularly the more severe hypertriglyceridemia such as that found in lipoprotein lipase and apoc-ii deficiency, dysbetalipoproteinemia, and type v hyperlipoproteinemia. high levels of lp(a) lipoprotein, in isolation or in combination with other dyslipoproteinemia, accelerate risk for cad. low levels of hdl cholesterol in the absence of other abnormalities suggest the diagnosis of hypoalphalipoproteinemia.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
igm deposits at nodes of ranvier in a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, anti-gm1 antibodies, and multifocal motor conduction block. we studied a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multifocal motor conduction block, and igm anti-gm1 antibodies. a sural nerve biopsy demonstrated deposits of igm at nodes of ranvier by direct immunofluorescence. the deposits were granular and located in the nodal gap between adjacent myelin internodes, and in some instances, they extended along the surface of the paranodal myelin sheath. when injected into rat sciatic nerve, the serum igm bound to the nodes of ranvier, and the binding activity was removed by preincubation with gm1. these observations suggest that anti-gm1 antibodies may have caused motor dysfunction by binding to the nodal and paranodal regions of peripheral nerve.
patterns of growth and metastases of induced pancreatic cancer in relation to the prognosis and its clinical implications. to understand high malignancy of pancreatic cancer, the growth and metastatic patterns of pancreatic cancer induced in syrian hamsters were examined. in this model, induced tumors resemble the human disease morphologically, clinically, biologically, and immunologically. in the current study, primary-induced cancer and transplants of pancreatic cancer cell line (pc-1) into the sc tissue or pancreas of homologous hosts were used. in the primary-induced pancreatic cancer, perineural invasion was the most common path (88%), followed by lymphogenic (31%) or vascular (2%) metastases. inoculation of pc-1 cells into the pancreas resulted in 100% tumor take within 3 weeks. of 19 intrapancreatic allografts, all showed peritoneal invasion, 5 (26%) liver metastases, 3 (16%) lymph node metastases, 17 (89%) perineural invasion, and none vascular invasion. even microscopic tumors were found to metastasize primarily via perineural spaces. it was also demonstrated, for the first time, that cancer cells take this route to reach distant tissues, including the lymph nodes. intraductal spreading occurred in both primary cancers and intrapancreatic allografts either continuously or discontinuously. the patterns of discontinuous intraductal tumor expansion imitated tumor multicentricity. although perineural invasion was the most common feature of primary cancer and intrapancreatic allografts, lymphatic, hepatic, and vascular invasion and metastases usually occurred in advanced cases. environmental factors seem to influence expansion and metastases, as evidenced by differences in growth and in metastatic patterns between sc and intrapancreatic allografts.
unusual aspects of aortovenous fistulas associated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. three unusual cases of an abdominal aortic aneurysm spontaneously rupturing into the retroperitoneum and an adherent posterior vein are reported. no patient demonstrated signs or symptoms of an aortovenous fistula before surgery. emergent surgery prevented extensive preoperative diagnostic testing. the three abdominal aortic aneurysms were very large and averaged 13 cm in diameter. one fistula involved an inflammatory aneurysm, which is the fifth such case reported. the aortic fistulas were to the inferior vena cava (158 other cases reported in the english-language literature), a left renal vein (16 other cases reported), and an iliac vein (7 other cases reported). routine use of the cell-saver, oversewing of the fistula from within the aneurysm, and a heightened awareness that this unusual complication is more common in the presence of a very large, ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm should improve survival.
persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with aids: successful treatment with isotretinoin. rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men, particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. we report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with aids who developed a persistent rectal ulcer. a biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia, and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ dna hybridization. this genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men, including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. the rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin, a retinoid.
paraesthesiae and tetany induced by voluntary hyperventilation. increased excitability of human cutaneous and motor axons. anxiety can induce hyperventilation, and the resultant hypocapnia and hypocalcaemia can lead to paraesthesiae and tetany. to define the nature of the disturbance created in peripheral nerve, the excitability of cutaneous and motor axons was monitored in 6 normal subjects requested to hyperventilate until paraesthesiae developed in the hands, face and trunk. this occurred when alveolar pco2 (paco2) had declined on average by 20 mmhg. spontaneous emg activity developed when paco2 had declined by a further 4 mmhg. changes in the excitability of cutaneous and motor axons were measured from changes in the compound action potentials evoked by stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist and recorded over the digital nerves of the index finger and over the thenar muscles, respectively. as paco2 declined, the size of the compound sensory and muscle potentials evoked by a constant stimulus progressively increased, indicating an increase in axonal excitability. these changes occurred before paraesthesiae or tetany developed. in each subject there was a statistically significant inverse correlation between paco2 and axonal excitability. independent of this increase in axonal excitability, there was no significant change in the supernormal phase of the recovery cycle of cutaneous axons. microneurographic recordings from the median nerve in 2 subjects revealed spontaneous bursting activity of cutaneous axons, perceived as paraesthesiae. it is concluded that the paraesthesiae and tetany induced by hyperventilation result solely from changes in the excitability of cutaneous and motor axons in the peripheral nerve, presumably due to an alteration in the electrical properties of the axonal membrane resulting from a reduced plasma [ca2+]. the supernormal phase may entrain the ectopic discharge and thereby determine the maximal discharge frequency of impulses in ectopically generated trains, but does not otherwise contribute to the physiological disturbance.
gastric injury and invasion of parietal cells by spiral bacteria in rhesus monkeys. are gastritis and hyperchlorhydria infectious diseases? the possibility of using the rhesus monkey as a model for studying gastric function in the presence of infection with spiral bacteria was studied. endoscopic evaluation of the gastric mucosa was performed under general anesthesia in 29 colony-bred rhesus monkeys, and gastric pinch biopsy specimens were obtained from each animal. on a separate day, gastric emptying and acid output were determined using a 99mtc dilution technique. biopsy samples were fixed for light microscopy (h&e, gram, and warthin-starry stains) and for transmission electron microscopy. the presence of spiral bacteria and gastritis was assessed and rated on coded slides. in 8 of 29 monkeys, helicobacter pylori-like organisms were observed in close proximity to the mucosal epithelial cells or in the lumen of the gastric pits. in 14 other monkeys, "gastrospirillum hominis"-like organisms were observed in the mucus covering the surface of epithelial cells, in the lumina of the gastric glands, and overlying parietal cells. gastritis was present in 8 of 8 animals positive for h. pylori-like organisms, in 2 of 14 animals positive for "g. hominis"-like organisms, and in none of the uninfected monkeys, and the mean gastritis index was significantly greater in animals positive for h. pylori-like organisms. moreover, acid output was significantly higher in monkeys positive for "g. hominis"-like organisms than in controls or animals positive for h. pylori-like organisms. gastric emptying was not significantly different in the three groups. in conclusion, (a) h. pylori-like, but not "g. hominis"-like, organisms cause gastritis while not modifying acid output; (b) "g. hominis"-like, but not h. pylori-like organisms, invade and on occasion damage parietal cells while apparently causing hyperchlorhydria; and (c) the rhesus monkey appears to be a good model for the study of gastric infection with spiral bacteria.
clinical efficacy of ptca and identification of restenosis: evaluation by serial body surface potential mapping. we used serial body surface potential mapping (bspm) with the departure map technique to evaluate the clinical efficacy of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) in various pathophysiologic stages of coronary artery disease, and to detect restenosis. the bspm was performed prior to, 1 week after, and 1 month after ptca. a follow-up coronary angiography was performed 3 to 6 months after ptca, and bspm was also performed at the same time. the results of bspm were compared with those of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (tl-201 spect) and radionuclide ventriculography. after ptca, bspm showed a significant reduction in the departure area, the tl-201 spect also showed a significant reduction in the extent and severity scores, and the left ventricular ejection fraction improved significantly. in the cases with restenosis, the departure area, which had decreased in size after ptca, showed an increase in size. after successful re-ptca, the size of the departure area again became smaller. we concluded that bspm, which is a simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive method, is useful in the evaluation of the clinical efficacy of ptca and in the detection of restenosis after successful ptca.
isolated pulmonary valvular regurgitation: current perspectives. ipvr is a rare clinical entity that was first diagnosed during life in 1955. in the past 35 years, only 69 patients have been reported. with increasing clinical awareness, as well as use of pde, the confirmation of its clinical diagnosis has become easier and more accurate without having to take recourse to invasive cardiac studies as in the past. for this reason, it is becoming increasingly apparent that ipvr is not so rare as has been suggested in the past. ipvr is more common in men than in women, in whites than blacks, and in the young than the elderly. the mean age of ipvr patients is 27 years (range, 4 to 85). the majority of the patients are asymptomatic and the diagnosis is usually suspected upon the discovery of a crescendo-decrescendo, low-pitched, early to mid diastolic murmur in the second and third left intercostal space, which increases during inspiration, particularly in the presence of a hyperdynamic right ventricle and in the absence of peripheral circulatory phenomenon of aortic regurgitation. the ecg often shows right axis deviation, incomplete right bundle branch block, and rarely, right ventricular hypertrophy and strain. however, a normal ecg does not preclude its diagnosis. approximately 30% of the ipvr patients have normal 12-lead ecgs. the diagnosis may be further suggested by the posteroanterior chest roentgenogram when dilated and large central pulmonary arteries are noted to pulsate vigorously (hilar dance) on chest fluoroscopy.
tumor of the atrioventricular nodal region. a clinical and immunohistochemical study. autopsy specimens of 17 tumors of the atrioventricular nodal region were studied. sudden death occurred in 14 children and adults; seven of these patients had a history of atrioventricular block or syncope. three tumors were incidental findings in infants with other congenital anomalies; diaphragmatic agenesis, pulmonary hypoplasia, and meckel's diverticulum in one patient; mitral atresia in one; and congenital hydrocephalus, ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, coarctation of the aorta, and patent omphalovitelline duct in the third. immunohistochemical stains demonstrated strong positivity for carcinoembryonic antigen in 13 of 13 cases, b72.3 antigen in 5 of 7 cases, and cytokeratin in 11 of 11 cases. twenty control cases of mesothelioma and mesothelial hyperplasia were all negative for b72.3; one showed focal carcinoembryonic antigen staining. ultrastructural analysis of one case demonstrated short rudimentary microvilli not characteristic of mesothelial cells. we conclude that so-called mesotheliomas of the atrioventricular nodal region are not of mesothelial origin, because of strong carcinoembryonic antigen positivity and occasional positivity with b72.3, as these antibodies react with glycoproteins found in endodermally derived tissue and generally not with mesothelial tissue. conduction system tumors are most likely congenital rests of endodermal origin, can be associated with other congenital anomalies, and often cause symptoms of heart block and sudden death.
imaging the fetal brain in the second and third trimesters using transvaginal sonography. high-frequency transvaginal probes were used at 20-40 weeks' gestation to develop a systematic examination of the fetal brain. modeling the procedure after the standard neonatal neurosonographic examination, we attempted to obtain three coronal sections (anterior, midline, posterior) and two sagittal sections (midsagittal, right or left parasagittal). in 70 normal patients, all planes were imaged with a similar frequency (74-76%) except for the posterior coronal plane, which was imaged 59% of the time. among the first 35 cases, 17% had a complete study, compared with 71% of the second 35 cases. transvaginal sonography established or changed the diagnosis in five of the 13 cases with central nervous system or other abnormalities. we recommend that a complete fetal neurosonographic examination include transvaginal sonography to complement and enhance the transabdominal examination, especially for cases in which a fetal abnormality is suspected.
efficacy and complications of radiotherapy of anterior visual pathway tumors. a progressive disturbance in visual acuity or visual field, along with an unexplained optic nerve atrophy, suggests the possibility of a tumor. tumors that frequently affect the anterior visual pathway include primary optic nerve sheath meningiomas, intracranial meningiomas, optic gliomas, pituitary tumors, and craniopharyngiomas. the location of these tumors sometimes prohibits a complete surgical excision that might jeopardize the visual system. radiation therapy, however, can be beneficial in these cases. this article reviews the indications for radiotherapy of tumors that involve the anterior visual pathway, along with the possible complications. cases that present the effect of radiation therapy and radiation damage are presented.
features distinguishing secondary achalasia from primary achalasia. eighteen patients with cancer-induced or secondary achalasia (sa) were compared to 421 patients with idiopathic or primary achalasia (pa). the aim of the study was to detect any differences in clinical presentation between the two groups. mean age of patients with sa was 57.1 (range 15-78) and 47.1 (range 1-90) in patients with pa (p = 0.02). three patients with sa were 15, 24, and 36 yr old, respectively. symptom frequency was comparable in sa versus pa. mean duration of symptoms in sa was 4.5 months, with 15 of the 18 patients experiencing symptoms for six months or less. weight loss occurred in 88.2% of patients with sa and 57.3% of patients with pa (p less than 0.05). cancer was at the gastroesophageal junction in 16 patients, duodenum in one, and breast in one. endoscopy showed tumor in 12 (67%). the esophagram was suspicious for tumor in only 25%. we conclude that patients with sa are older, more likely to lose weight, and have a short duration of symptoms. however, sa may occur in younger patients, and endoscopy with biopsy is necessary in any newly diagnosed case of achalasia.
effects of mental exercise in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. an echocardiographic doppler study. to assess the effects of mental stress on left ventricular diastolic function in patients with congestive heart failure, nine patients aged 57 +/- 12 years with dilated cardiomyopathy (end-diastolic volume, more than 110 ml/m2; ejection fraction, less than 40%; mean, 28 +/- 8%) and congestive heart failure in new york heart association functional class ii or iii and 14 normal volunteers (mean age, 49 +/- 8 years) were studied during mental arithmetic lasting 10 minutes with echocardiographic doppler monitoring of transmitral flow velocity. during mental arithmetic, the ratio of peak flow velocity in early versus late diastole (e/a) and deceleration time of early diastole did not change in normal controls. however, e/a increased significantly (from 1.6 +/- 1.5 to 1.9 +/- 1.7; p less than 0.01) and deceleration time markedly decreased (from 156 +/- 49 to 108 +/- 31 msec; p less than 0.001) in patients with congestive heart failure. in 16 postinfarct patients with ejection fraction of less than 40% studied during mental arithmetic with simultaneous hemodynamics and doppler recordings, good correlations were found between pulmonary wedge pressure and doppler parameters (wedge pressure versus e/a, r = 0.89; wedge pressure versus deceleration time, r = -0.87). during mental arithmetic, the pulmonary wedge pressure-e/a correlation was weaker (r = 0.67), whereas the correlation between pulmonary wedge pressure and deceleration time was stronger (r = 0.91). the value of 153 msec in deceleration time was the best cutoff point in predicting 12 mm hg pulmonary wedge pressure, both at rest and during mental arithmetic: the higher the deceleration time, the lower the pulmonary wedge pressure, and vice versa. among patients with congestive heart failure, five showed normal baseline deceleration time (195 +/- 21 msec; pattern 1), and the remaining four showed a short (less than 153 msec) deceleration time (108 +/- 13 msec; pattern 2). during mental arithmetic, deceleration time markedly decreased to as short as 119 +/- 20 msec in all patients except one with baseline pattern 1. deceleration time further decreased to 75 +/- 6 msec in all patients with baseline pattern 2. mental arithmetic induces changes in left ventricular diastolic function in patients with congestive heart failure. transmitral echocardiographic doppler provides a simple noninvasive method of estimating and monitoring pulmonary wedge pressure in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction.
parotid gland and facial nerve trauma: a retrospective review. included in this study are all patients with trauma to the parotid region seen at our center from 1979 to 1989. there was a total of five patients with injury to the parotid area: two patients with isolated facial nerve injury; one with isolated parotid duct injury; two with combined duct and nerve injury. there were four males and one female, with a mean age of 34 years (range, 16 to 62 years). the three patients with parotid duct injury required other procedures for associated trauma. a total of eight nerve branches were severed in four patients. seven of the eight nerve branches (82.5%) were primarily repaired, with excellent functional results. two of the three ductal injuries were repaired primarily over a stent, and one was ligated. no complications resulted from either treatment. based on our clinical experience and review of the literature, we suggest that the treatment of parotid region injuries should include: 1) a complete initial assessment; 2) primary repair of parotid duct transection within 24 hours when possible; 3) primary repair of all facial nerve injuries, although delayed nerve repair remains a viable alternative; and 4) nonsurgical treatment of sialoceles and fistulae.
a comparative study of terbinafine versus griseofulvin in 'dry-type' dermatophyte infections. we conducted a double-blind comparative study of terbinafine, 250 mg twice daily, versus griseofulvin, 500 mg twice daily, for 6 weeks in chronic dermatophyte infections of the feet or hands. all but three patients (total 31) had trichophyton rubrum infection. at 12-week follow-up, 100% of the terbinafine-treated group were free from infection compared with 45% of those treated with griseofulvin. therapy in 75% of the terbinafine-treated group and in 35% of those given griseofulvin was rated as effective overall at long-term follow-up, although these differences were not statistically significant. six months after treatment all nine patients whose skin had cleared with terbinafine therapy remained in remission versus only one of seven patients treated with griseofulvin. none of the patients in either group experienced serious adverse effects.
serum cholesterol levels and survival in elderly hypertensive patients: analysis of data from the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly. the relation between serum cholesterol and mortality was investigated in 822 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to treatment with diuretics, with or without methyldopa, or placebo. cox's proportional hazards model showed that pretreatment serum total cholesterol levels were independently and inversely correlated with total mortality (p = 0.03), noncardiovascular mortality (p = 0.02), and cancer mortality (p = 0.04) during treatment. total and noncardiovascular mortality were also negatively correlated with pretreatment hemoglobin levels and body weight. all factors being equal, an increase in total serum cholesterol of 2.3 mmol/l was associated with a one-year prolongation of survival. after adjustment for gender, age, pretreatment cardiovascular complications, and systolic pressure, the correlations between serum cholesterol and cardiovascular and cardiac mortality were not significant.
liver disease in alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency: prognostic indicators. we reviewed the clinical presentation, subsequent course, and outcome of 98 patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency seen at our institution during the past 20 years to obtain answers to the following questions: (1) what prognostic factors aid in determining the course of liver disease in affected patients? (2) when is the appropriate time for referral to a liver transplant center? (3) does breast-feeding prevent chronic liver disease? (4) what is the incidence of severe liver disease in family members? our analysis revealed that the initial values of alanine aminotransferase, prothrombin time, and trypsin inhibitory capacity may have prognostic value. during clinical follow-up the recurrence or persistence of hyperbilirubinemia along with deteriorating results of coagulation studies indicated the need for liver transplantation because of imminent poor outcome. girls had a worse prognosis than boys. initial breast-feeding versus feeding of commercial formulas did not influence overall overcome. the incidence of significant liver disease among "at risk" siblings was 21% (3/14); if one assumes mendelian inheritance from heterozygous parents, the overall risk for siblings in our families was 5%.
telephone use to elicit voice or speech in brain injured subjects. the initiation of speech is often delayed in the early stages of recovery from a serious brain injury. we have found a high percentage of patients with both speech and swallowing problems. this makes bedside assessment of swallowing safety difficult because one cannot listen for the sound of aspirated material on the vocal cords when a patient is at high risk for silent aspiration and is often unable to cooperate with a videofluoroscopic study. the use of the telephone has been described several times for aphasia treatment, but not to elicit speech or assess swallowing safety early after brain injury. this study, therefore, recruited subjects who had brain injuries and (1) were referred early for swallowing and other evaluations, (2) were out of coma and able to follow some commands, and (3) did not initiate voice or speak when asked to. subjects were asked three questions under two different conditions: face to face and after ringing the telephone from another room. the results were recorded on videotape and analyzed by another investigator for quantifiable differences. six of the seven subjects responded better with the telephone stimulus than without. this technique may elicit voice or speech early after brain injury in some patients and may be useful in bedside assessment of swallowing safety. it may also serve as an example of appropriate stimulation of brain injured subjects coming out of coma.
traumatic intracranial aneurysms caused by missiles: their presentation and management. only 30 cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysm (tica) secondary to missile injury have been reported to date. to these we add 15 more cases. missile ticas are often seen on a secondary branch of the middle cerebral artery and are usually accompanied by a intracerebral hematoma (80%) or by an acute subdural hematoma (26%). fourteen of our cases were secondary to shrapnel injuries and only one was secondary to a bullet. none of the injuries was through-and-through. ticas may enlarge in time and, seemingly inoffensive, may rupture and lead to death. all seven ticas studied histologically proved to be false aneurysms. ticas are best treated through trapping and excision. the outcome depends on the patient's status and level of consciousness before surgery. indications for angiography are discussed.
enlarged cisterna magna and the dandy-walker malformation: factors associated with chromosome abnormalities. thirty-three fetuses with an enlarged cisterna magna (10 mm or more) were evaluated to determine factors that might be associated with an underlying chromosome abnormality. eighteen fetuses (55%) proved to have a chromosome abnormality, including trisomy 18 or trisomy 18 variant (12), trisomy 13 (three), turner syndrome (one), or other rearrangements (two). among various risk factors analyzed, the absence of ventricular dilatation correlated most strongly with a chromosome abnormality. chromosome abnormalities were found in 17 of 22 fetuses (77%) lacking ventricular dilatation, compared with only one of 11 fetuses (9%) with ventricular dilatation (p less than .001). other factors statistically associated (p less than .01) with an underlying chromosome abnormality included mild enlargement of the cisterna magna (10-14 mm), concurrent anomalies detected sonographically, and fetal growth retardation. however, stepwise logistic regression showed that only the absence of ventricular dilatation and the presence of concurrent anomalies were significant when multiple factors were evaluated. these observations support the utility of evaluating the cisterna magna as part of a routine anatomical survey.
endometrial ablation for the treatment of menorrhagia: a comparison of patients with normal, enlarged, and fibroid uteri. one hundred sixty-one patients underwent endometrial ablation with the nd:yag laser for the treatment of refractory menorrhagia. patients were divided into one of three groups: those with a normal-sized uterus; those with an enlarged uterus (greater than 10 cm); and those with uterine fibroids, which had been documented clinically, ultrasonographically, or by a combination of hysteroscopy and laparoscopy or by one or the other. all patients were considered candidates for hysterectomy. both preoperatively and postoperatively, patients monitored their menstrual cycles and evaluated their flow according to predetermined categories of amenorrhea, light flow, normal flow, heavy flow, and severe flow. after treatment, 68% of patients with normal-sized uterus and 91% of patients with an enlarged uterus (greater than 10 cm) and 88% of patients with uterine fibroids became amenorrheic or had light flow. none of the patients in this last group have had to undergo hysterectomy. this study indicates that the patient with an enlarged or fibroid uterus may not have contraindications for endometrial ablation. endometrial ablation may be effective in at least temporarily controlling bleeding in those patients with enlarged or myomatous uterus.
effects of diltiazem on complications and restenosis after coronary angioplasty. a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial was performed to evaluate the usefulness of empiric therapy with a calcium antagonist in patients who undergo coronary angioplasty. a total of 201 patients were randomized to placebo or to high-dose diltiazem (mean dose, 329 mg/day). treatment began 24 hours before angioplasty. restenosis was assessed by percent area stenosis as determined by quantitative angiographic techniques before, immediately and 1 year after angioplasty. all patients also received aspirin and dipyridamole before angioplasty. heparin and verapamil were administered intravenously during the procedure. the 2 groups were similar with respect to age, extent of coronary artery disease, smoking history, and baseline lipid levels. procedural complications, including death (1 vs 1), q-wave infarction (0 vs 3), acute occlusion (5 vs 5) and focal spasm (0 vs 0), were not significantly different in the diltiazem and placebo patients, respectively. freedom from all acute complications was noted in 85% of patients in both groups. one-year angiographic follow-up was obtained in 60% of patients. restenosis rates were similar: 36% in the diltiazem group and 32% in the placebo group (p = 0.30). the incidence of late cardiac events (death, q-wave myocardial infarction, recurrent angina or coronary bypass graft surgery) was similar in the 2 groups. thus, diltiazem did not influence the overall restenosis rate or prevent late events after coronary angioplasty.
use of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-huepo) in a jehovah's witness refusing transfusion of blood products: case report. recombinant human erythropoietin (r-huepo) administration to a jehovah's witness refusing blood transfusions increased her nadir packed cell volume from 13% to 37% and reticulocyte count from 2% to 17.7%. r-huepo may provide an alternative safe and effective therapy in life-threatening anemia when blood transfusions are unacceptable to the patient.
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people. we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake, hypertension, and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. we recorded ethanol consumption, history of hypertension, liver disease, cigarette smoking, and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age. in univariate matched analyses, the frequencies of high ethanol intake (p = 0.009), hypertension (p = 0.05), and coagulation disorder (p = 0.05) were higher in the cases than in the controls. after controlling for possible confounding factors, we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage (p = 0.02 and p = 0.05, respectively). the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes (p = 0.01), contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas (p = 0.009). we conclude that chronic, high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people.
parental history is an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease: the framingham study. family history of cad, defined as parental death by cad, was found to be a significant independent predictor of cad in a logistic regression model controlling for standard risk factors and length of follow-up among the 5209 participants in the framingham study. persons with a positive parental history have a 29% increased risk of cad, and the strength of the association between parental history and cad is similar to that found for other standard risk factors such as systolic blood pressure, cholesterol level, and cigarette smoking. no evidence was found that persons with a family history of cad have a decreased capacity to cope with the deleterious effects of known risk factors; that is, no significant interaction was found between any of the risk factors and parental history of cad. among men with low risk for cad by risk-factor profile (i.e., nonsmoking, thin, nonhypertensive persons), more than two thirds of those who experience cad have a positive parental history. this study suggests that cad among persons who are predicted to be at low risk by standard risk factors may have a substantial genetic component and that the risk associated with parental history may not be reduced by modification of these factors. nevertheless, among persons with a positive family history, those with a favorable risk profile are at substantially less risk for cad than those with an unfavorable risk profile.
use of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms to predict future vulnerability to side effects. objective: susceptibility to neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal syndromes varies widely, even within age and sex subgroups. individual vulnerability to extrapyramidal syndromes has been assumed to explain this, but the utility of past history for predicting future occurrence of extrapyramidal syndromes has not been studied extensively. this investigation was undertaken to determine whether patients' previous histories of extrapyramidal syndromes predict future episodes of extrapyramidal syndromes and to compare the importance of this predictive factor with patient age, sex, neuroleptic dose, and anticholinergic dose as predictors of extrapyramidal syndromes. methods: the charts of 62 schizophrenic patients with multiple neuroleptic treatment episodes were reviewed. extrapyramidal syndromes, neuroleptic drug doses, and anticholinergic drug doses during the first 21 days of each treatment episode were recorded. results: previous extrapyramidal syndromes correctly predicted extrapyramidal syndromes in subsequent treatments for 84% of the patients. variations in neuroleptic potency, neuroleptic dose, and anticholinergic dose partially explained incorrect predictions. conclusions: these results support the hypothesis that patients with a history of extrapyramidal syndromes are at greater risk for future extrapyramidal syndromes. if confirmed, these results strongly support individual susceptibility as a major predictor of extrapyramidal syndromes and indicate that prophylaxis of extrapyramidal syndromes should be considered for patients who have previously suffered extrapyramidal syndromes from similarly prescribed neuroleptic therapy.
a phase ii study of combined methotrexate and teniposide infusions prior to reinduction therapy in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a pediatric oncology group study. teniposide (vm-26) can increase intracellular methotrexate (mtx) and its polyglutamate derivatives in vitro and thus has the potential to improve the therapeutic index of regimens containing mtx. in this phase ii study, children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) in first or second marrow relapse were randomly assigned to receive either simultaneous (n = 11) or sequential (n = 12) continuous infusions of mtx and vm-26 prior to reinduction. infusions of vm-26 were begun 12 hours after completion of mtx infusion in the sequential group. dosages were individually adjusted to maintain plasma concentration levels of 10 microns for mtx and 15 microns for vm-26; total infusion times were 24 and 72 hours, respectively. significant toxicity in the first six patients who received the scheduled 72-hour vm-26 infusion (including one drug-related death) prompted a 50% reduction in infusion duration. the reduced dose was associated with similar but more manageable toxicity. examination of bone marrow aspirates 10 days after therapy was begun showed one complete and two partial marrow remissions; a fourth patient who had an aplastic marrow on day 10 received no further chemotherapy and had a complete remission (cr) documented on day 31. there was no obvious clinical advantage associated with either infusion schedule, although small sample sizes preclude definitive conclusions. the 17% response rate to the mtx/vm-26 therapeutic window in patients with refractory disease suggests the need for further investigation to evaluate alternative schedules and concomitant therapy for this drug combination.
abdominal aortic aneurysm: results of a family study. data pertaining to abdominal aortic aneurysm among first-degree relatives of 91 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm are presented. the percentage of families with at least one affected first-degree relative of the proband (multiplex families) was 15.4%. in 21.4% of multiplex families parent-offspring transmission of abdominal aortic aneurysm was noted; in the remaining families only siblings were affected. the mean age at onset among probands was 67.3 years; that among all affected was 67.4 years. no statistically significant difference in the mean ages at onset between genders was noted. among affected siblings of probands, the sex ratio, male:female, was 1.33:1, which is not significantly different from 1:1. the relative risk of developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm was 3.97 for fathers, 4.03 for mothers, 9.92 for brothers, and 22.93 for sisters.
bilateral homonymous visual field defects as initial manifestation of multiple sclerosis. symptomatic suprageniculate lesions in multiple sclerosis expressed as a visual field defect are infrequent. the present case developed a bilateral homonymous defect as the initial and unique symptom of the disease. it was confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, which disclosed extensive demyelinating areas in both optic nerve radiations. the mode of onset, perimetric findings, and unusual presentation of this condition are briefly discussed.
a pilot study of suramin in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. suramin sodium is an aromatic polysulfonated compound that was originally introduced as an antiparasitic agent in the 1920s. recently, in view of its ability to bind and disrupt the function of multiple growth factors and cellular enzyme systems, the authors have been evaluating the role of suramin as an antitumor agent. in this study, 12 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received parenteral suramin by continuous infusion to a peak plasma suramin level greater than 200 micrograms/ml. no objective radiographic responses were observed, although greater than 90% necrosis of multiple tumor sites was documented at autopsy in one patient and normalization of tumor-related hypercalcemia occurred in another patient. two patients had stable disease of 10 and 28 weeks' duration, respectively. significant toxicities included hypotension related to sepsis and resulting in renal insufficiency (one patient), development of liver function abnormalities (one patient) marked thrombocytopenia (one patient), prothrombin time prolongation (all patients), vortex keratopathy (two patients), and grade 1 sensory neuropathy (two patients). on the basis of the current results, suramin does not appear to be an active single agent against metastatic renal cell carcinoma when administered by this dosing schedule.
the frequency, causes and timing of death within 30 days of a first stroke: the oxfordshire community stroke project. in a prospective, community-based study of 675 consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke, of whom over 90% had computed tomography (ct) and/or necropsy examinations, 129 deaths occurred within 30 days of the onset of symptoms, a case fatality rate (cfr) of 19%. the 30 day cfr for patients with cerebral infarction was 10% (57 of 545, for primary intracerebral haemorrhage 52% (34 of 66), for subarachnoid haemorrhage 45% (15 of 33) and for those of uncertain pathological type 74% (23 of 31). the cfr for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 33% compared with 17% for those who had been independent pre-stroke. the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was not significantly greater (1.8, 95% confidence interval 0 to 4.3). there was a significant trend for cfr to increase with age (chi square for trend = 4.0, p less than 0.05). this relationship was found in those patients who had been functionally independent prestroke (chi square for trend = 7.9, p less than 0.005) but not in those who had been dependent pre-stroke (chi square for trend = 0.5, ns). the pattern of increasing cfr with increasing age amongst those who had been independent prestroke was seen particularly in patients with cerebral infarction (chi square for trend = 8.6, p less than 0.005). the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients with cerebral infarction who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 2.2 (95% confidence interval 1.2 to 4.1). fifty three percent of all deaths within 30 days of stroke were due to the direct neurological sequelae of the stroke.
bacteriologic quality of intraoperative autotransfusion. controversies remain about the bacteriologic aspects of intraoperative blood salvage despite the widespread use of this technique. in this prospective study, intraoperative salvaged blood was cultured in 401 patients, according to a direct plating technique. bacterial growth was detected in 12.7% of cases. these results were compared with those obtained in control studies with sterile water and blood bank units under the same culture conditions. most microorganisms were coagulase-negative staphylococci, followed by other skin and environmental contaminants. quantitative estimates of contaminations showed low counts of colony-forming units (cfu/ml): 82% of positive cultures yielded 1 or 2 cfu/ml and 6% had 5 to 20 cfu/ml. patients were followed up for a minimum of 3 months to detect septic complications. no statistically significant correlation could be found between bacteriologic results of autotransfused blood and infectious complications. this study suggests that bacteriologic monitoring of patients who have undergone autotransfusion may help in detecting surgical field contamination. it also confirms that intraoperative autotransfusion adds little septic risk to cardiac surgery.
genital herpes simplex virus infections. there has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections. this has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections, particularly severe, first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior hsv-1 infection. virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis, and use of viral cultures is encouraged. type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of hsv in transmission of genital infections, the role of genital hsv in transmission of hiv, the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with hsv-2, and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 in 25% of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes. unfortunately, commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to hsv-1 and hsv-2. recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10% in heterosexual couples. currently, promotion of "safe sex" is the only available approach for prevention of transmission. however, ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine. acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes, but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated. acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of hsv infections in persons with aids. additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of acv-resistant hsv infections in the immunocompromised host.
premature alveolar bone loss in erdheim-chester disease. erdheim-chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis. oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge. this case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of erdheim-chester disease. a patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the national institutes of health had premature alveolar bone resorption. he underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis. histopathologic evidence of erdheim-chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues. in the ensuring years, accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures. we recommend early preventive dental management for patients with erdheim-chester disease.
five-year results of coronary bypass grafting for patients older than 70 years: role of internal mammary artery. despite numerous references to the superiority of the internal mammary artery (ima) over the saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization, its role in the elderly is still in question. from january 1984 through december 1988, 1,081 patients older than 70 years (mean age, 74.9 years) underwent bypass grafting, 354 (33%) receiving left ima grafts based on the surgeon's preference and 727 (67%) receiving vein grafts only. selection bias resulted in a higher incidence of known risk factors (such as cardiomegaly, arrhythmias, left ventricular failure, wall motion abnormalities, and preoperative combined new york heart association/canadian cardiovascular association functional class iv) in patients in whom the ima was not used. however, unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction, left ventricular dysfunction, and left main disease were not contraindications for using ima grafts. the operative mortality rate was significantly lower in ima patients (2.8% versus 7.6%). the actuarial 5-year survival rate (standard error) was higher in patients with ima grafts, 89% (3%) versus 78% (2%), and postoperative functional class improved to a greater extent in ima patients (87% of patients were in classes i and ii). arrhythmias and myocardial infarction were significant causes of late death only in patients with vein grafts. when patients are older than 70 years, patient selection factors clearly play an important role in the differential results between patients in whom the ima is used and patients in whom vein grafts are used. as in younger patients, excellent results can be achieved in the elderly.
antibodies in anti-hbe-positive patient sera bind to an hbe protein expressed on the cell surface of human hepatoma cells: implications for virus clearance. the relevance of the recently described membrane-bound form of the hbe protein for the antiviral immune response was examined. the data show that antibodies in anti-hbe, but not in anti-hbc-positive human sera efficiently bind to the membrane expressed hbe. no evidence was obtained that the hbc can reach the cell surface in a form that can be detected with human antibodies. the findings suggest that the decline of virus titer that is usually observed after seroconversion from hbe to anti-hbe might be the result of an antibody-mediated elimination of infected cells.
nonhomologous chromatid exchange in hereditary and sporadic renal cell carcinomas. for the development of renal cell carcinomas, it has been suggested that a germ-line or somatic mutation occurs on one of the homologous chromosomes 3p, and subsequently the other 3p segment is lost. we have examined the karyotype and/or the allelic combination on chromosomes 3 and 5 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis in normal kidney and tumor samples from 28 renal cell carcinomas that developed in two patients with von hippel-lindau disease; we then compared the results to those of sporadic tumors. an unbalanced translocation between chromosome 3p and 5q or other chromosomes was found to be the most common aberration. we developed a model of nonhomologous chromatid exchange involving breakpoint clusters at chromosomes 3p13, 3p11.2, 5q22, and 8q11.2. subsequent chromatid segregation may result in net loss of the 3p segment either (i) in one step or (ii) after a nondisjunctional loss of the derivative chromosome carrying the 3p segment. this general mechanism could also be implicated to explain genetic changes occurring in other types of solid tumors.
auto-peep during cpr. an "occult" cause of electromechanical dissociation? a 64-year-old man with severe copd developed refractory nonperfusing sinus rhythm after intubation and positive-pressure ventilation. fifteen minutes after resuscitative efforts were halted, the patient was noted to have spontaneous respirations and blood pressure, suggesting that dynamic hyperinflation was responsible for the observed electromechanical dissociation (emd). we recommend a brief trial of apnea for patients with copd and emd when conventional measures are unsuccessful.
scoring system for the preoperative evaluation of metastatic spine tumor prognosis. an assessment system for the prognosis of metastatic spine tumors was evaluated for 64 cases who had undergone surgery. six parameters were employed in the assessment system: 1) the general condition, 2) the number of extraspinal bone metastases, 3) the number of metastases in the vertebral body, 4) metastases to the major internal organs (lungs, liver, kidneys, and brain), 5) the primary site of the cancer, and 6) the severity of spinal cord palsy. each parameter ranged from 0 to 2 points. the total score obtained for each patient can be correlated with the prognosis, while being valuable in predicting it. however, the prognosis could not be predicted from a single parameter. in conclusion, an excisional operation should be performed on those cases who scored above 9 points, while a palliative operation is indicated for those who scored under 5 points.
unusual cause of 'piriformis muscle syndrome'. the piriformis muscle syndrome is a controversial "clinical" syndrome primarily characterized by signs and symptoms of sciatic nerve compression at the region of the piriformis muscle as it passes through the greater sciatic notch. the syndrome is often referred to; however, cases are rarely reported, and it is generally an uncommon diagnosis. of those cases reported, the incidence is six times more frequent in females than in males, and is typically temporally related to minor pelvic or buttock trauma. we describe a case of a 40-year-old woman presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of piriformis muscle syndrome following a gynecologic procedure performed in the dorsal lithotomy position. electromyographic findings were consistent with this clinical entity. operative exploration, however, revealed the source of neural compression to be a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior gluteal artery adjacent to the piriformis muscle. the diagnostic features of this clinical syndrome are discussed.
the role of carotid screening before coronary artery bypass. five hundred thirty-nine patients with no symptoms of cerebral ischemia undergoing coronary artery bypass were preoperatively evaluated for presence of carotid stenosis by noninvasive methods (duplex scanning and ocular pneumoplethysmography-gee). overall prevalence of carotid stenosis greater than 75% was higher (8.7%) than that generally reported. age greater than 60 years was significantly related to presence of carotid stenosis greater than 75% (11.3% vs 3.8%, p = 0.003). risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking were not predictive for carotid stenosis, postoperative stroke, or death. carotid stenosis greater than 75% (odds ratio 9.87, p less than 0.005) and coronary artery bypass redo (odds ratio 5.26, p less than 0.05) were both independent predictors of stroke risk. patients were divided into four groups: group 1, minimal or mild degree of carotid stenosis (less than 50%), not submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (432 patients, 80.1%); group 2, moderate degree of stenosis (50% to 75%), no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (60 patients, 11.2%); group 3, severe carotid stenosis; (greater than 75%), submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (19 patients, 3.5%), group 4, severe carotid stenosis (greater than 75%) no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (28 patients, 5.2%). patients in group 4 had significantly higher stroke rate (14.3%) compared to the other three groups (1.1%) (p = 0.0019). the finding of carotid stenosis greater than 75% in patients over 60 years of age was associated with occurrence of stroke in 15% of cases. carotid screening is helpful to determine patients at increased risk of stroke and should be performed in patients greater than 60 years.
cardiac arrest after hypertonic citrate anticoagulation for chronic hemodialysis. the use of regional citrate anticoagulation as an alternative to standard therapy in hemodialysis patients at risk for bleeding complications has been well described. recently, a method using hypertonic citrate has been reported as being safe and efficacious, and having several advantages over the usual techniques. two patients who suffered cardiac arrests after dialysis using hypertonic citrate are discussed. both received anticoagulation as described in the literature, although the citrate infusion rate was lower than recommended. electrocardiograms obtained during the first such session showed no change in the q-tc interval with initiation of the infusion in either patient. both were noted to have cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of discontinuation of dialysis, without warning symptoms, following the second and fifteenth treatments, respectively. the initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation did not respond to standard advanced cardiac life support therapy, and the patients were not successfully resuscitated until they received intravenous calcium. the authors postulate that the loss of positive calcium flux from the dialysate, in conjunction with circulating unmetabolized citrate, caused an electrolyte imbalance leading to the potentially fatal arrhythmia. caution is recommended in using this method of regional anticoagulation.
the surprising kidney-fluid mechanism for pressure control--its infinite gain! in this short paper, i have tried to explain the elation that we felt when we first realized that the kidney-fluid mechanism for controlling the arterial pressure has an infinite feedback gain property. because of this, all the other pressure control mechanisms, none of which has ever been shown to have a similar infinite gain property, must themselves alter the kidney-fluid mechanism if they are to succeed in causing long-term changes in the arterial pressure. we have not been able to refute this principle despite many experiments over the last 2 decades. for this reason, our first understanding of the infinite gain property of the kidney-fluid mechanism was like a light at the end of the tunnel. i hope that i can explain to the reader the excitement of those few seconds when we first recognized the principle in 1966.
the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome. the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome is an entity that presents a diagnostic challenge to the clinician. although many infectious and noninfectious etiologies exist for this syndrome, viruses, especially nonpolio enteroviruses, are the classic and most important agents encountered. the incidence of polio and mumps meningitis has declined dramatically in the vaccine era, but recently described pathogens, such as human immunodeficiency virus and borrelia burgdorferi (lyme disease agent) are now important considerations in the differential diagnosis. specifically treatable entities (eg, mycobacterial or fungal meningitis, herpes simplex encephalitis, parameningeal infection) that may mimic aseptic meningitis in their initial presentations must not be overlooked. a careful approach to the patient and a rational use of laboratory studies are the basis for establishing a specific diagnosis and assuring a favorable outcome.
human central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor expressing nerve growth factor receptors: chp707m. a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pnet) presented as a cerebral hemispheric mass in a 33-year-old man. bone marrow metastases were discovered 11 months later. a cell line (chp707m) was derived from these metastases. in culture, the cells showed features of neuronal differentiation, forming short neurites and synthesizing low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein. northern blotting showed the tumor cells express nerve growth factor (ngf) receptor messenger rna, and fluorescence-activated cell-sorting demonstrated ngf receptors on the cell surface. western blotting showed chp707m ngf receptors are truncated. the receptors are functional; they bind iodine 125-labeled mouse ngf with an affinity of 1.6 x 10(-9) m, and short-term treatment with ngf induces expression by the tumor cells of the proto-oncogene, c-fos. although chp707m is the first central nervous system pnet cell line proven to express ngf receptors, immunohistological survey of tissue sections prepared from human central nervous system pnets showed that 13 of 35 contained ngf receptor-positive tumor cells. thus, more than one-third of such tumors might be responsive to the effects of ngf.
cytoreductive hepatic surgery for neuroendocrine tumors. we retrospectively reviewed 37 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 1970 and 1989 to evaluate the role of cytoreductive hepatic surgery in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors (carcinoid, 24; islet cell, 13). seventeen resections were curative (no gross residual tumor); nine patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and seven patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor. eight of nine patients with symptomatic endorcrinopathies obtained complete relief of symptoms; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 2 to 82 months (mean, 26 months). six of seven patients with symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 5 to 28 months (mean, 14 months). one symptom-free patient underwent curative hepatic resection 5 years after abdominoperineal resection for a rectal carcinoid. twenty resections were palliative (gross residual tumor); 16 patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and 4 patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor. eight of 16 patients with symptomatic endocrinopathies obtained complete relief; five are alive at 2 to 30 months (mean, 11 months), with a mean duration of complete relief of 6 months (3 to 12 months). all four patients who underwent resection for symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief; two are alive and symptom free at 10 and 101 months. our experience suggests that curative surgery should be considered in all patients with completely resectable metastatic disease and that palliative surgery, despite the short duration of complete relief, should be considered in selected patients because it delays and may reduce the subsequent need for medical therapy.
phase ii study of fluorouracil and recombinant interferon alfa-2a in previously untreated advanced colorectal carcinoma. we conducted a phase ii clinical trial of fluorouracil (5fu) and recombinant interferon alfa-2a (rifn alpha-2a) in 52 previously untreated patients with bidimensionally measurable metastatic colorectal cancer. during week 1, 5fu was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion, 750 mg/m2/d for 5 consecutive days. intravenous bolus administration of 5fu 750 mg/m2 was given weekly for 7 weeks starting on day 12. rifn alpha-2a (roferon; hoffman-laroche, nutley, nj), 9 x 10(6) u, was administered subcutaneously three times weekly during weeks 1 to 8. patients were evaluated for response on week 9. of 52 patients enrolled in the study, 51 were assessable for toxicity, and 45 were assessable for response. fifteen patients experienced partial response, and one patient achieved a clinical complete response for an overall response rate of 35% (95% confidence interval [ci], 22%, 50%). median duration of response is 7.5 months (range, 4 to 11 months). seventy percent of patients entered on the study are alive with a median follow-up duration of 7 months. twenty-five percent of patients developed grade 4 toxicity, and 82% developed grade 3 toxicity. one drug-related death in the presence of sepsis was reported, and two treatment-related seizures occurred. our experience with this schedule produced a lower response rate with greater toxicity than previously reported. current randomized trials comparing this schedule of 5fu with rifn alpha-2a to 5fu plus folinic acid (leucovorin) or single-agent 5fu may determine its role in the treatment of advanced colorectal carcinomas.
early detection of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with chest pain and nondiagnostic ecgs: serial ck-mb sampling in the emergency department [published erratum appears in ann emerg med 1991 apr;20(4):420] study objectives: patients presenting to the emergency department with chest discomfort are a difficult problem for emergency physicians. nearly 50% of patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami) will initially have nondiagnostic ecgs on ed presentation. the purpose of this study was to determine if patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs could be identified using new immunochemical assays for serial ck-mb sampling in the ed. design: chest pain patients, more than 30 years old, with pain not caused by trauma or explained by radiographic findings, were eligible for the study. serial serum samples were drawn on ed presentation (zero hours) and three hours after presentation, then analyzed for ck-mb using four immunochemical methods and electrophoresis. standard world health organization criteria were used to establish the diagnosis of ami, including new q-wave formation or elevation of standard in-hospital serum cardiac enzyme markers. setting: a tertiary cardiac care community hospital. measurements and main results: the serum from 183 patients hospitalized for possible ischemic chest pain was collected and analyzed. thirty-one of 183 patients (17%) were found to have ami by standard in-hospital criteria. sixteen of the 31 patients (52%) with ami had nondiagnostic ecgs on presentation. immunochemical determination of serial ck-mb levels provided a sensitive and specific method for detecting ami in patients within three hours after ed presentation compared with standard electrophoresis. the four immunochemical methods demonstrated a range in sensitivity from 50% to 62.1% on ed presentation versus 92% to 96.7% three hours later. the immunochemical tests demonstrated specificities ranging from 83.0% to 96.4% at three hours, with three of the four tests having specificities of 92% or greater. electrophoresis had a sensitivity of 34.5% on ed presentation, increasing to 76.9% at three hours, with a specificity of 98.6%. conclusions: immunochemical ck-mb methods allowed rapid, sensitive detection of ami in the ed. early detection of ami offers many potential advantages to the emergency physician. early detection of ami, while the patient is in the ed, could direct disposition of this potentially unstable patient to an intensive care setting. such information may prevent the ed discharge of patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs. the diagnosis of ami within a six-hour period after symptom onset may allow thrombolytic therapy to be given to patients with ami not having diagnostic ecgs. this study served as a pilot trial for a multicenter study of the emergency medicine cardiac research group, which is currently ongoing.
controlled trial of antimycobacterial therapy in crohn's disease. clofazimine versus placebo. in order to study the effect of clofazimine, a powerful antimycobacterial and antiinflammatory agent, 49 patients with active crohn's disease were randomized to either corticosteroids plus clofazimine 100 mg daily (n = 25) or to steroids and matching placebo (n = 24). a total of 28 patients (58%) went into disease remission (clofazimine 16, placebo 12; p = ns) with a fall in disease activity score from 10.5 +/- 4.4 to 3.3 +/- 3.5. patients were treated for a further eight months with clofazimine or placebo and 18 of 28 maintained their remission and completed the study (clofazimine 12, placebo 6; p = ns). side effects were minor and consisted of skin rash and increased pigmentation. clofazimine as a solitary antimycobacterial agent appears ineffective in inducing remission in crohn's disease but may have a role in either disease maintenance or combination chemotherapy.
low diacylglycerol values in colonic adenomas and colorectal cancer. the biochemical events that make colonic epithelial cells proceed along the adenoma-carcinoma sequence are not well understood. the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway is involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. to determine its role in colonic neoplasias we performed mass measurements of its second messenger sn-1,2-diacylglycerol in biopsy specimens from normal mucosa and neoplasias of the colon. normal colonic mucosa was also investigated in patients without colonic abnormalities (n = 10). compared with pooled diacylglycerol values from five colonic sites (100%), values in patients with a normal colon were highest in the ascending colon (120 (5)%, p less than 0.05) and lowest in the rectum (81 (5)%, p less than 0.01). absolute diacylglycerol values in patients with normal colons (2.62 (0.16) nmol/mg protein) were not significantly different from those found in the normal mucosa of patients with colorectal neoplasias (2.45 (0.17) nmol/mg protein). both colonic adenomas (n = 15) and colorectal carcinomas (n = 14) showed significantly decreased diacylglycerol values compared with the adjacent normal mucosa of each patient (72 (4)%, p less than 0.001, and 71 (4)%, p less than 0.001 respectively). the appreciable decrease in mass diacylglycerol values clearly distinguishes adenomas and carcinomas of the colon from the surrounding normal mucosa. this finding suggests that profound metabolic changes of the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway occur early in the adenoma-carcinoma sequence and may be important in colonic carcinogenesis.
scaphoid malunion. we reviewed 10 patients with symptomatic malunion of a carpal scaphoid fracture. all had displacement with dorsiflexed intercalated segment instability, and suffered from pain, restricted range of movement at the wrist and decreased grip strength. the restriction of flexion-extension and the decreased grip strength correlated with the severity of the disi deformity. seven patients had a corrective osteotomy, using an anterior wedge-shape bone graft with internal fixation by herbert screw, and all had satisfactory results. we believe that symptoms associated with scaphoid malunion are related to consequent carpal deformity.
prevention of pancreatic fistula by modified pancreaticojejunal anastomosis. a major cause of morbidity after pancreatoduodenectomy is leakage from the pancreaticojejunal anastomosis. to prevent this complication, we have employed mucosal stripping from the proximal jejunum prior to end-to-end anastomosis in 19 patients with good results.
infant survival following delayed postmortem cesarean delivery. a 19-year-old multipara was delivered of a living infant by postmortem cesarean 22 minutes after documented maternal cardiac arrest and 47 minutes from the fatal injury. neonatal follow-up at 18 months of age demonstrated no evidence of neurologic damage.
problem solving in implant dentistry. dental implants have become an accepted form of dental care, with reported functional 5-year success rates of 90% and higher. these impressive statistics include, but do not identify, the problems that may have been created by clinical ineptitude. diagnostic acumen and preventive measures at each stage of the implant treatment can avoid many problems. also, appropriate measures of timely recognition, rescue, and repair can often restore ailing implants and their prosthetic appliances to full function.
mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst from a patient with muir-torre syndrome. mucous cell proliferation in a periapical radicular cyst from a patient with a family history of colonic malignancies and multiple sebaceous neoplasms of the skin, so-called muir-torre syndrome, is reported. such goblet cell hyperplasia has not been previously reported to be associated with any known syndrome. we believe the finding of mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst may not simply be coincidental, but should raise suspicion of paraneoplastic potential and warrant further evaluation for possible occult neoplastic disease.
endoscopic retrograde brush cytology. a new technique. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography has been shown to be a very valuable adjunct in the diagnosis of malignancy involving the biliary and/or pancreatic ductal system. however, characteristic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography radiographic findings associated with malignant strictures are frequently not specific and cytological confirmation becomes essential for the diagnosis. unfortunately, the current overall diagnostic yield of positive cytology in such circumstances ranges from 18%-56% depending on the technique. a new brush device has been designed which is uniquely adapted to pancreaticobiliary strictures of varying anatomical configurations. this study shows results using this new cytology brush in a series of 53 patients with pancreaticobiliary malignancy. a significant improvement in the cytological yield of tumor confirmation was obtained with a diagnostic sensitivity of 70% and specificity of 100% using the new brush technique.
essential tremor: clinical correlates in 350 patients. to study the demographic and clinical correlates of essential tremor (et), we analyzed a comprehensive database of 350 patients evaluated at the movement disorders clinic at baylor college of medicine from 1982 to 1989. the age at onset of tremor showed bimodal distribution for both male and female patients, with peaks in 2nd and 6th decades. et appeared most frequently in hands, followed by head, voice, tongue, leg, and trunk. half of the patients (47%) had associated dystonia, including cervical dystonia, writer's cramp, spasmodic dysphonia, and cranial dystonia, and 20% of the patients had associated parkinsonism. at least one 1st-degree relative of 62.5% of et patients reported tremor. alcohol relieved tremor in 2/3 of et patients. sixty-eight percent of patients who had adequate follow-up improved with propranolol, and 72% with primidone. there was no significant difference in various clinical variables between the 219 patients with familial et and 131 with sporadic et. patients with early-onset et were more likely to have hand involvement and associated dystonia than patients with late-onset et. dystonia was more frequently associated with mild et than with severe et. patients with low-frequency tremor were older and had more head but less hand involvement than patients with high-frequency tremor. the lack of relevant differences between et subgroups suggests that, despite variable expression, et represents a single disease entity.
monitoring of spinal cord stimulation evoked potentials during thoracoabdominal aneurysm surgery. repair of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm involves a significant risk of ischemic injury to the spinal cord. standard monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials, which relies upon peripheral nerve stimulation, becomes nonspecific and insensitive during this surgery when aortic cross-clamping produces lower extremity ischemia causing a peripheral conduction block. techniques for the insertion of percutaneous epidural electrodes, developed originally for pain management, have been adapted to this setting to permit direct stimulation of the spinal cord for intraoperative monitoring of evoked potentials. the clinical outcome in patients monitored by this technique has been consistent with evoked potential findings.
increasing incidence of cecal and sigmoid carcinoma. data from the connecticut tumor registry. we have studied both the distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer using the connecticut tumor registry, the oldest tumor registry in the united states. during the time period 1973 to 1985, left-sided colon cancers accounted for 63% of the cancers, right-sided cancers 33%, and cancers with unspecified sites 4%. indeed, this pattern of distribution has remained constant for 25 years. for the period 1935 to 1985, we calculated the sex-specific, age-adjusted (normalized to the 1970 u.s. census) incidence. age-adjusted incidence of rectal cancer has remained stable for 50 years: for men, 22.8 cases/100,000/year, and for women, 13.9 cases/100,000/year. during these 50 years, the age-adjusted incidence of cecal carcinoma for men has increased from 3.6 to 16.7 cases/100,000/year, while for women, it has increased from 4.9 to 14.2 cases/100,000/year. sigmoid carcinoma for men has increased from 8.8 to 18.7 cases/100,000/year, and for women, it has increased from 7.7 to 12.8 cases/100,000/year. the incidence of colon cancer at each site has been and continues to be increasing at a constant rate. age-adjusted incidence for all colorectal cancers has increased from 35.2 to 70.2 cases/100,000/year for men and from 32.1 to 49.2 cases/100,000/year for women. thus, distribution of colorectal cancers by site in connecticut has remained stable for 25 years. more importantly, however, the age-adjusted incidence of colon cancer has continued to increase for 50 years, whereas that of rectal cancer has remained relatively stable.
efficacy of acebutolol after acute myocardial infarction (the apsi trial). the apsi investigators. a randomized, placebo-controlled trial was carried out to determine the effectiveness of acebutolol in preventing late death in high-risk patients surviving an acute myocardial infarction (mi). the average 1-year mortality rate in placebo groups of 9 trials of beta blockers in post-mi patients was 7.2% compared with 17% in a nonselected cohort of patients who had survived at least 7 days after an mi. the mandate for this trial was based on the fact that high-risk patients whose mortality rate exceeds 20% have not been enrolled in significant numbers in previous trials. it remains to be proved whether beta-blocking therapy in this patient population is beneficial. selection of high-risk patients for inclusion in the trial was based on an algorithm set up from the essai de prevention secondaire de l'infarctus du myocarde registry. at the time of the second interim analysis, the mortality rate in the placebo group was 12%, lower than expected (greater than or equal to 20%). the trial was stopped; at that time, 309 patients had been allocated to placebo and 298 patients to acebutolol therapy. after 318 days, there were 17 deaths in the acebutolol-treated group and 34 in the placebo group, a reduction in total mortality of 48% (p = 0.019). there were 30 vascular deaths in the placebo group and 12 in the acebutolol group. thus, cardiovascular mortality with acebutolol was reduced by 58% (p = 0.006). the incidence of all cardiovascular-related deaths was lower in the acebutolol-treated group. the total reduction in mortality did not appear to be correlated with secondary risk factors.
touch preparation cytology of breast lumpectomy margins with histologic correlation. residual microscopic disease after lumpectomy for breast cancer may cause significant local recurrence. we evaluated one hundred fourteen consecutive breast lumpectomy margins in this study by touch preparation cytology. cytologic preparations were intraoperatively correlated with gross and frozen section results and subsequently with permanent histologic sections of representative margins. three specimens were cytologically unsatisfactory and 86 yielded benign findings, while material suggestive or diagnostic of malignancy was obtained from 25 specimens. gross, frozen section, and permanent histologic margins were positive in 10, 17, and 22 cases, respectively. there were three false-positive touch preparation cytologic results, while frozen section specimens were false-negative in five cases. sensitivity and specificity of touch preparation cytology were 100% and 96.6%, respectively, with a diagnostic accuracy of 97.3%. touch preparation cytologic examination rapidly and reliably evaluates lumpectomy margins and overcomes sampling errors and artifacts related to frozen section evaluation. this technique currently complements frozen section evaluation of lumpectomy margins as part of a protocol aimed at reducing local recurrence of breast cancer.
effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine on cognition, function and behaviour in alzheimer's disease. objective: to determine the efficacy of tetrahydroaminoacridine (tha) in alzheimer's disease. design: randomized, double-blind, multiple crossover trial with three treatment periods, each consisting of 3 weeks of active drug therapy and 3 weeks of placebo administration. setting: referral-based geriatric practice in a community hospital. patients: thirty-four patients with moderate to severe alzheimer's disease. subjects were included if they had stage 3 to 6 disease (as determined by the reisberg scale) and had not been taking psychotropic drugs for at least 1 month and if informed consent had been obtained from the patients and their next of kin. interventions: fifty to 100 mg of tha daily and matched placebo. results: of the initial 34 patients 14 experienced liver toxicity and 3 gastrointestinal side effects during the study; however, all 22 who completed the study were able to tolerate at least the minimum dose. for the 22 patients there was no clinically or statistically significant effect of tha on cognition, functional status or behaviour. the results for individual patients showed no subgroup of tha-responsive patients. conclusion: tha has no clinically important benefits in alzheimer's disease and is associated with appreciable toxic effects.
cauda equina syndrome after continuous spinal anesthesia. four cases of cauda equina syndrome occurring after continuous spinal anesthesia are reported. in all four cases, there was evidence of a focal sensory block and, to achieve adequate analgesia, a dose of local anesthetic was given that was greater than that usually administered with a single-injection technique. we postulate that the combination of maldistribution and a relatively high dose of local anesthetic resulted in neurotoxic injury. suggestions that may reduce the potential for neurotoxicity are discussed. use of a lower concentration and a "ceiling" or maximum dose of local anesthetic to establish the block should be considered. if maldistribution of local anesthetic is suspected (as indicated by a focal sensory block), the use of maneuvers to increase the spread of local anesthetic is recommended. if such maneuvers prove unsuccessful, the technique should be abandoned.
atlanto-occipital disarticulation. accident characteristics. a retrospective study of cases of atlanto-occipital disarticulation was conducted to describe incident characteristics: 24 cases were identified, including nine motor vehicle drivers, two passengers, seven pedestrians, and five motorcyclists; one other person had fallen four stories. the highest rates were found among motorcyclists and pedestrians. atlanto-occipital disarticulations occur in high-energy impacts and collisions and are associated with aortic laceration in 25% and basilar skull fracture in 21% of such cases. current restraint systems and motorcycle helmets do not appear to prevent this generally rapidly fatal injury.
factors influencing the results of open reduction and internal fixation of tibial plateau fractures. forty-three displaced tibial plateau fractures were treated with open reduction and internal fixation. the fractures were classified into four groups, and the clinical results were evaluated using a standard 100-point knee rating system. the average follow-up period after surgery was 2.7 years. overall there were 35 excellent, five good, three fair, and no poor results. in five of eight knees with a less than excellent score, the results were due to the technique of fracture fixation or the absence of a bone graft. there were ten postoperative complications, but only one ultimately affected the clinical result. fourteen patients required removal of implants. roentgenographic analysis showed that six knees had mild degenerative changes, two had moderate, and two had severe degenerative changes. there was no statistically significant association between the fracture type and a less than excellent result. the absence of bone grafting, however, was associated with a less than excellent result. bicondylar fractures had a mean range of motion of 110 degrees, 18 degrees less than that of all other types of fracture combined.
hemodynamic and neurohormonal effects of quinidine in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction secondary to coronary artery disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. quinidine causes vasodilation directly and by inhibition of adrenergic vasoconstriction, but it also exerts negative inotropic activity. although this drug is often administered to patients with severe congestive heart failure, the net consequences of these opposing actions have not been evaluated in such patients. the hemodynamic and neurohormonal response to oral quinidine (600 mg) in 19 patients with severe chronic heart failure was therefore determined. vasodilation was the predominant effect of quinidine, with reductions in mean arterial, left ventricular filling and right atrial pressures of -9% (confidence interval [ci] -5 to -13), -8% (ci -19 to 3), -15% (ci -26 to -4), respectively. the quinidine-induced vasodilation increased plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations by 44% (ci +17 to +72) and 47% (ci +2 to +91), respectively. no change in cardiac performance was noted, with the cardiac index slightly increased (+10%, ci +2 to +17) and stroke work index unchanged (0%, ci -11 to +11) after quinidine. although the mean serum quinidine concentration was within the therapeutic range or lower in all patients, the serum quinidine concentration and the change in mean arterial pressure did correlate (r2 = 0.64). in conclusion, vasodilation is the predominant hemodynamic effect of oral quinidine in patients with congestive heart failure. however, potential adverse effects may be caused by consequent neurohormonal activation.
late complications in pediatric cardiac transplant recipients. late complications occurring more than 3 months after cardiac transplantation were analyzed in 29 pediatric patients in whom 31 cardiac transplantations were performed. age at transplantation ranged from 3 months to 18 years (mean, 11.3 years) with follow-up ranging from 3.5 to 54 months (mean, 21.6 months). there were seven late deaths and two patients with retransplantations. of nine grafts lost, eight were due to acute rejection, and one was due to coronary disease. four of the grafts lost were secondary to patient noncompliance with prescribed immunosuppression. the mean rejection frequency more than 1 year after cardiac transplantation was significantly higher in those patients who eventually lost their grafts; however, these patients could not be distinguished by their rejection frequency in the first year. eight patients had coronary disease, with five diagnosed at autopsy, two at cardiac retransplantation, and one by angiography. all eight patients were on double immunosuppression; none of the 19 patients on triple therapy had coronary disease with similar follow-up. there were 12 serious infections in eight patients (four associated with okt3) with no deaths. five patients had arrhythmias requiring treatment including two pacemakers; four of the five were associated with rejection episodes. twelve of 29 patients developed early hypertension, and five developed late hypertension (greater than 1 year). there were two malignancies; one patient with hodgkin's lymphoma was cured with chemotherapy, and one patient with histiocytic lymphoma was discovered at autopsy. two patients had cholecystectomies, and five patients required laser gingivectomies.
the relationship of intraluminal shunting to technical results after carotid endarterectomy. this study evaluates the incidence of defects on the intraoperative angiograms of 160 carotid endarterectomies performed in 146 patients, 81 of 160 (50.6%) with a shunt and 79 of 160 operations (49.4%) performed without a shunt. angiographic defects were identified in 34 of 160 carotid endarterectomies (21%), of which 21 of 34 (65%) resulted in a greater than 20% stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ica). there were defects in 6 of 81 (7.4%) shunted vessels compared to 16 of 79 (20%) of those not shunted (p less than 0.05). thirty-one vessels were reexplored 11 of 81 (13.5%) of those shunted and 20 of 79 (20%) of those not shunted (p less than 0.05). there were four strokes (2.5%) (2 in each group) and one death due to myocardial infarction (0.6%) in the postoperative period. duplex follow-up from 1-60 months (median 22 months) was available in 114 of 160 (71%) endarterectomies. a stenosis of greater than 50% was detected in 7 of 114 (6%) carotid arteries; 5 of the 7 (71%) were shunted and 2 (29%) were nonshunted. unrepaired defects were present in 3 of 7 (43%) and no defects in the remaining 4 of 7 (57%) arteries. we conclude that the use of a shunt significantly decreases the number of ica defects detected angiographically and that immediate revision of demonstrable defects can be undertaken with low morbidity and does not predispose the patient to recurrent stenosis.
multiagent chemotherapy in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children. twenty-seven evaluable children with early first bone marrow relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia were treated with an intensive induction/consolidation and ongoing maintenance therapy. induction therapy consisted of a 35-day course of daunomycin, vincristine, and prednisone, immediately followed by teniposide, cytosine arabinoside (ara-c), and l-asparaginase. intrathecal methotrexate, hydrocortisone, and ara-c were given through the induction/consolidation phase. twenty-three of 27 patients achieved remission by the end of induction/consolidation. maintenance with the same drugs in a modified dosage schedule continued for approximately 2 years. a small subgroup of patients who were m3 at day 35 but m1 at day 56 (end of induction/consolidation) and had a cumulative event-free survival (efs) of only 0.40 at 6 months, all had relapsed by 15 months. however, the efs for m1 patients by day 35 and maintained on chemotherapy was 0.64 at 12 months and 0.32 at 30, 36, and 48 months, respectively. although good reinduction and remission duration rates at 12 to 24 months were achieved and an apparent plateau in survival occurs at 30 months, fall-off in survival would not be unexpected with probably less than 20% alive after 5 years.
quantitative angiographic comparison of the immediate success of coronary angioplasty, coronary atherectomy and endoluminal stenting. coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting effectively reduce the severity of coronary artery stenoses, but direct comparisons of these interventions with conventional balloon angioplasty have not been performed. to compare the immediate efficacy of these 3 interventions, the angiographic morphology and the severity of the residual coronary stenosis were quantitatively evaluated in 18 patients undergoing coronary atherectomy and in 21 patients treated by endoluminal coronary stenting. each of these groups of patients was compared with a matched group of coronary angioplasty patients selected from a large, computerized data-base. the variables matched included patient age and sex, lesions site and severity, and lesion complexity. both coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting more effectively reduced the severity of the coronary stenosis when compared with balloon angioplasty. the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 69 +/- 10 to 22 +/- 20% in the atherectomy group compared with a reduction from 74 +/- 11 to 44 +/- 14% in the matched coronary angioplasty population (p = 0.008). similarly, the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 77 +/- 11 to 26 +/- 12% in the stented group compared with a reduction from 81 +/- 10 to 42 +/- 14% in the matched coronary angioplasty group (p = 0.014). in addition, moderate or severe coronary dissections were noted more frequently in the coronary angioplasty groups than in their respective atherectomy and stent groups (0 vs 33%, p = 0.008, and 5 vs 19%, p = 0.15, respectively).
immunodominant regions for t helper-cell sensitization on the human nicotinic receptor alpha subunit in myasthenia gravis. in myasthenia gravis an autoimmune response against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (achr) occurs. the alpha subunit of the achr contains both the epitope(s) that dominates the antibody response (main immunogenic region) and epitopes involved in t helper cell sensitization. in this study, overlapping synthetic peptides corresponding to the complete achr alpha-subunit sequence were used to propagate polyclonal achr-specific t helper cell lines from four myasthenic patients of different hla types. response of the t helper lines to the individual peptides was studied. four immunodominant sequence segments were identified--i.e., residues 48-67, 101-120, 304-322, and 419-437. these regions did not include residues known to form the main immunogenic region or the cholinergic binding site, and they frequently contained sequence motifs that have been proposed to be related to t-epitope formation.
managing the whole patient with hypertension: practical applications in a clinical setting. physicians are aware of the value of treating hypertension. complications such as stroke and congestive heart failure are less likely to occur in the well-controlled patient. in our quest to add coronary heart disease to this list, we must go beyond simple reduction of blood pressure. we must consider other risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, cigarette smoking, diabetes mellitus, and family history. the presence of one or more of these may indicate a more aggressive treatment approach. similarly the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy, coronary disease, or renal disease may indicate specific pharmacotherapy. on the other hand, the low-risk patient with no other problems or conditions may be treated with only nonpharmacologic therapy such as weight loss, dietary sodium reduction, and/or alcohol restriction. every patient has a different constellation of findings. every patient should be treated individually. it is no longer sufficient just to lower blood pressure; we need to manage the whole patient with hypertension; keeping in mind that most antihypertensive agents are equally effective, the side effect profile is often the decisive factor in choosing an antihypertensive agent.
characterization of "peak e," a novel amino acid associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. epidemiologic studies strongly associate eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) with ingestion of tryptophan containing a contaminant ("peak e"). prior reports have suggested that peak e is the di-tryptophan n alpha-animal of acetaldehyde. spectral and chemical studies now demonstrate that peak e is 1,1'-ethylidenebis[tryptophan]. this novel amino acid may be the etiological agent responsible for ems, or it may be a marker of a still unidentified causal agent.
fourth branchial pouch anomaly. we present an extremely rare case of fourth branchial fistula in a 23-year-old male. the characteristic clinical feature was a recurrent left lower neck abscess which did not respond to appropriate medical and surgical therapy. radiography and a computed tomographic scan with contrast material revealed a fistula running from the apex of the left pyriform sinus (internal opening) to the left lower neck abscess. the fistula tract was excised surgically. histological examination of the excised fistula revealed a squamous epithelial lining and subepithelial lymphoid tissue. this pyriform sinus fistula is thought to be of fourth pharyngeal pouch origin, because of its surgical aspects and the histological findings of the excised fistula.
malignancy associated with chronic empyema: radiologic assessment. radiologic findings of six cases of malignancy associated with chronic empyema 5-39 years in duration were reviewed. pathologic examination confirmed three b-cell non-hodgkin lymphomas, one round-cell sarcoma, one mesothelioma, and one adenocarcinoma. retrospective findings on plain chest radiographs suggested the occurrence of malignancy: increased radiopacity in the thoracic cavity, soft-tissue bulgings and/or unsharpness of fat planes in the chest walls, destruction of bone near the empyema, and extensive medial deviation of the calcified pleurae. computed tomography delineated masses with soft-tissue attenuation more clearly than radiography in all cases. magnetic resonance images of three cases were informative because empyema cavities were surrounded by low-intensity rims, and two of them showed a signal intensity different from that of necrotic tumors. scintigraphy revealed increased uptake of gallium in all cases. ultrasonography was useful for biopsy guidance. every radiologist should know this entity in observation of chest radiographs obtained in patients with chronic empyema, and further radiologic assessment and aggressive biopsy are recommended if malignancy is suspected.
three mixed venous saturation catheters in patients with circulatory shock and respiratory failure thirty-one critically ill patients with acute respiratory failure and circulatory shock were divided into three groups. group 1 included 11 patients with an inserted mixed venous saturation (svo2) catheter using three-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and one detecting fiberoptic filament (oximetrix opticath catheter); group 2 included eight patients with an inserted svo2 catheter using two-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and one detecting fiberoptic filament; (edwards sat-one catheter); group 3 included 12 patients with an inserted svo2 catheter using two-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and two detecting fiberoptic filaments. once calibration procedures were performed, svo2 measured by the catheter and by an hemoximeter osm 3 (reference value) were compared following each therapeutic intervention. over a period of 1.5 to 6 hours during which the hematocrit value remained unchanged, 119 measurements were obtained in group 1, 91 in group 2 and 181 in group 3. the dispersion of svo2 values was much more pronounced with the two-reference wavelength systems using either one or two detecting fiber optic filaments, and the correlation coefficient was significantly higher with the three-reference wavelength system (r = 0.970 for the oximetrix catheter vs r = 0.855 for the edwards catheter and r = 0.826 for the spectramed catheter, p less than 0.001). after 24 hours, the spontaneous drifts in the two-reference wavelength systems, using either one or two detecting fiber optic filaments (expressed as the svo2 value measured by the catheter minus the reference svo2 value) were significantly higher than the spontaneous drift in the three-reference wavelength system (9.3 +/- 7 percent for the edwards catheter and +/- 6 +/- 4.1 percent for the spectramed catheter vs 3.3 +/- 3.1 percent for the oximetrix catheter, p less than 0.05). this study shows that a three-wavelength system is more accurate than a two-wavelength system for measuring acute changes in svo2. the addition of a second detecting fiber optic filament does not seem to improve the accuracy of the system when svo2 changes occur in conditions of stable hematocrit.
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis. six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large, placoid, yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas. all eyes had vitreitis. all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining. five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis. all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions. the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis. modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus (hiv) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture. three of the four patients tested positive for hiv.
effect of the somatostatin analogue octreotide acetate on hemostasis in humans. octreotide acetate is a somatostatin analogue that has been shown to ameliorate the side effects of excessive secretion of hormone from benign and malignant tumors. the ability of this drug to inhibit the growth of malignant cells and to control gastrointestinal hemorrhage will prompt additional clinical trials. because some of these patients may have thrombocytopenia, platelet dysfunction, or a coagulopathy, we studied tests of platelet function and blood coagulation in 15 patients before and after 14 days of therapy with octreotide acetate at a dosage of 500 micrograms three times daily. we found no substantial change in the results of these tests, and no patient experienced bleeding or thrombosis. these results suggest that octreotide acetate does not adversely affect platelet function or the coagulation system in humans.
long-term medical consequences of incest, rape, and molestation. one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group. the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression, morbid obesity, marital instability, high utilization of medical care, and certain psychosomatic symptoms, particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches. it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems. questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner's review of systems in these difficult cases, if not routinely.
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett's esophagus. a review of nine adenocarcinomas of the esophagus arising in barrett's epithelium was undertaken. we found the disease among white males disproportionately. risk factors and incidence rate remain to be clarified. only one patient was in a surveillance program and only he had carcinoma discovered "early." he still survives while only one of the eight whose diagnosis followed investigation of symptoms remains alive.
otitis media in day-care children. a report from the international primary care network. the relationship between day care and acute otitis media and its adverse consequences was analyzed as part of a collaborative multinational study. data from primary care research networks in eight countries were collected on 1335 children, aged 0 to 60 months, at the time of initial visits to their primary care physicians for acute otitis media. a history of recurrent acute otitis media, poor hearing, and tonsillectomy or adenoidectomy were all more frequent in day-care children aged 25 to 60 months, compared with those cared for at home. day-care children were brought to their physicians more promptly after the onset of symptoms and received more referrals to otolaryngologists at the time of the index visit for acute otitis media. day care may pose a significant risk for otitis media and its adverse consequences.
primary orchiectomy versus estrogen therapy in advanced prostatic cancer--a randomized study: results after 7 to 10 years of followup. of 163 new consecutively diagnosed cases of advanced (t3-4 m0 or t04m1) prostatic cancer 13 had contraindications for estrogen treatment, and the remainder were randomized to orchiectomy (76) or to estrogen treatment (74), consisting of 150 micrograms ethinyl estradiol daily and 80 mg. polyestradiol monthly. during the followup period of 7 to 10 years disease progression was noted in 27 patients (36%) treated with estrogen and 39 (51%) orchiectomized patients. the free of progression survival rate was significantly better (less than 0.05) among the estrogen treated patients but the over-all survival rates after orchiectomy and estrogen treatment were almost identical. a significantly higher frequency of cardiovascular side effects was noted in the estrogen group (23 cases) compared to the orchiectomy group (4 cases). therefore, estrogen treatment in this form cannot be recommended for the palliative treatment of prostate cancer.
gastric infarction. we have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries. we believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental. the outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal.
serial neurobehavioral assessments in preterm infants. the purpose of this study was to compare serial neurobehavioral assessments in a sample of preterm infants with intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) to those of a group of unaffected preterm infants. of the 30 infants included in the study, 5 infants had a grade iii or iv/vi intraventricular hemorrhage. infants with ivh demonstrated more abnormalities in mental status and a cluster of abnormal neurologic findings (persistent ankle clonus, tremulousness, and brisk deep tendon reflexes). of the 30 infants, 20 infants were included in a brain metabolism study. infants who had experienced an ivh had significantly different brain metabolism findings, as measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (nmr). there was a significant correlation between one measure of brain metabolism (pcr/pi) and the neurobehavioral assessment rating for infants with ivh.
expression of transcobalamin ii receptors by human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells. plasma membrane receptors for the serum cobalamin-binding protein transcobalamin ii (tcii) were identified on human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells using immunoaffinity-purified human tcii labeled with [57co]cyanocobalamin. the bmax values for tcii receptors on proliferating k562 and hl-60 cells were 4,500 and 2,700 per cell, respectively. corresponding dissociation constants (kd) were 8.0 x 10(-11) mol/l and 9.0 x 10(-11) mol/l. rabbit tcii also bound to k562 and hl-60 cells but with slightly reduced affinities. calcium was required for the binding of transcobalamin ii to k562 cells. brief treatment of these cells with trypsin resulted in almost total loss of surface binding activity. after removal of trypsin, surface receptors for tcii slowly reappeared, reaching pretrypsin treatment densities only after 24 hours. reappearance of receptors was blocked by cycloheximide. tcii receptor densities on k562 and hl-60 cells correlated inversely with the concentration of cobalamin in the culture medium. this suggests that intracellular stores of cobalamin may affect the expression of transcobalamin receptors. nonproliferating stationary-phase k562 cells had low tcii receptor densities (less than 1,200 receptors/cell). however, the density of tcii receptors increased substantially when cells were subcultured in fresh medium. up-regulation of receptor expression coincided with increased 3h-thymidine incorporation, which preceded the resumption of cellular proliferation as measured by cell density. in the presence of cytosine arabinoside, which induces erythroid differentiation, k562 cells down-regulated expression of tcii receptors. when hl-60 cells were subcultured in fresh medium containing dimethysulfoxide to induce granulocytic differentiation, the up-regulation of tcii receptors was suppressed. this event occurred well before a diminution of 3h-thymidine incorporation and cessation of proliferation. thus, changes in the regulation of expression of tcii receptors correlate with both the proliferative and differentiation status of cells.
retrograde continuous warm blood cardioplegia: a new concept in myocardial protection this report presents the results in our first clinical series of patients receiving continuous warm blood cardioplegia through the coronary sinus. warm oxygenated blood cardioplegia has certain theoretical advantages, such as continuously supplying oxygen and substrates to the arrested heart while avoiding the side effects of hypothermia. retrograde infusion of cardioplegia also offers certain advantages (eg, in valve operations and in patients with severe coronary artery disease) that are complementary to warm blood cardioplegia. retrograde warm blood cardioplegia was used in 113 consecutive patients (85 men and 28 women with a mean age of 61 years) undergoing various procedures. three percent of the patients died, 7% needed transient intraaortic balloon pump support, 6% had evidence of perioperative myocardial infarction, and 96% had spontaneous return of rhythm. there were no coronary sinus injuries. this new technique of retrograde continuous warm blood cardioplegia is a simple, safe, and reliable method of myocardial protection that may change the way we currently protect the heart intraoperatively.
glomus tumor of the coccyx. a curable cause of coccygodynia. a 30-year-old woman presented with recurrent severe coccygodynia. she underwent exploration for a possible pilonidal sinus and was found to have a precoccygeal glomus tumor that also involved bony trabeculae of the coccyx. to our knowledge, a glomus tumor involving the coccygeal bone has not been previously documented. in view of the relief of this patient's pain following the surgical excision of coccyx and tumor, a causal role is suggested.
overexpression of normal and mutated forms of hras induces orthotopic bladder invasion in a human transitional cell carcinoma. recent studies have shown that orthotopic (transurethral) transplantation of human bladder cancer cell lines into nude mice permits tumor growth that accurately reflects their clinical malignant status in the original host. thus, such a system allows a unique opportunity to analyze the genetic events involved in the conversion of low-grade bladder cancer, the vast majority of which are curable, to the high-grade life-threatening form of the disease. since 5-10% of transitional cell carcinomas (tccs) have been shown to contain a mutated hras gene, and protein expression levels of all forms of hras have been correlated with tcc progression, we chose to study the contribution of the hras oncogene in bladder tumor progression. we evaluated the effects of transfection of normal or mutated hras genes into a human tcc, called rt-4, that behaves as a superficial noninvasive papillary tumor after transurethral orthotopic inoculation into athymic nude mice. we found that overexpression of either transfected normal or mutated hras genes converted rt-4 cells to express an invasive phenotype remarkably similar in nature to the clinical behavior of high-grade bladder carcinomas. these results suggest a role for overexpressed normal or mutated ras genes in human bladder carcinoma progression, and highlight the importance of using orthotopic inoculation systems for evaluation of the contribution of oncogenes to malignant tumor progression.
retrobulbar alcohol injection in blind painful eyes. we studied 39 blind painful eyes in 39 patients who were treated with retrobulbar injection of absolute (96%) alcohol for their severe ocular pain at the king khaled eye specialist hospital from january 1984 to january 1987. there were 21 (54%) male and 18 (46%) female patients; all were followed for at least three months. the protracted ocular pain was mainly due to: end-stage (absolute) glaucoma in 31 (80%) eyes, uveitis or endophthalmitis in four (10%) eyes, or corneal ulcer in two (5%) eyes. one eye had painful phthisis bulbi, and one eye had infraorbital neuralgia. the complications encountered were transient and included blepharoptosis in eight (21%) eyes, external ophthalmoplegia, and corneal epithelial defect. the effective time of the injection to relieve pain ranged from two weeks to two years (mean, 29 weeks). the authors believe that there is still a place for retrobulbar alcohol injection for blind painful eyes when enucleation or evisceration is not possible.
crohn disease in the pediatric patient: ct evaluation. computed tomographic (ct) scans and medical records of 25 children (age range, 10-18 years) with pathologically proved crohn disease were reviewed to better define the role of ct in the management of pediatric patients with crohn disease. ct findings included small bowel thickening (range, 5-10 mm) (n = 20), colonic wall thickening (range, 6-15 mm) (n = 15), and small bowel dilation (n = 5). mesenteric abnormalities such as adenopathy and focal fatty proliferation were seen in 11 to 18 patients, respectively. extraluminal complications were easily identified with ct. abscesses were noted in seven patients, inflammatory masses in four, and perirectal or perineal inflammation in 10. fistulas were detected in four patients. the authors conclude that ct should be the initial imaging study performed in children with known crohn disease and a changing pattern of clinical symptoms.
clinical significance of intratesticular arterial anatomy. testicular atrophy has been reported in 2 to 18% of the patients following orchiopexy for cryptorchidism. a possible cause of this atrophy is interference with the testicular blood supply by placement of a testicular traction suture through the tunica albuginea. arterial casts of 32 adult human testes were created following placement of a 3-zero silk traction suture through the lower pole of the testis to determine the effects of this suture upon intragonadal arterial circulation. significant arterial blockage, manifested as failure of the parenchymal branches to fill, was observed in 14% of the casts produced via injection through the internal spermatic artery and in 100% of the casts produced via injection through the deferential artery. the results of this study support discontinuing the routine use of parenchymal testicular traction sutures during orchiopexy.
hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing fasciitis reduces mortality and the need for debridements. twenty-nine patients with necrotizing fasciitis were treated from 1980 to 1988. this study evaluates how the addition of hyperbaric oxygen (hbo) therapy to surgical treatment has affected mortality and the number of debridements required to achieve wound control in these patients. two groups of patients were viewed: group 1 (n = 12) received surgical debridement and antibiotics only; group 2 (n = 17) received hbo (90 minutes at 2.5 atm, average 7.4 treatments) in addition to surgery and antibiotics. both groups were similar in age, race, sex, wound bacteriology, and antimicrobial therapy. body surface area affected was similar, however, perineal involvement was more common in group 2 (53%) than in group 1 (12%). the admitting conditions of patients in group 1 (non-hbo) were diabetic, 33%; white blood cell count more than 12,000, 50%; and shock, 8%. the admitting conditions of patients in group 2 (hbo) were diabetic, 47%; white blood cell count more than 12,000, 59%; and shock, 29%. although group 2 patients receiving hbo were more seriously ill on admission, mortality was significantly lower (23%) compared to group 1 (66%) (p less than 0.02). in addition, only 1.2 debridements per group 2 patient were required to achieve wound control versus 3.3 debridements per group 1 patient (p less than 0.03). the addition of hbo therapy to the surgical and antimicrobial treatment of necrotizing fasciitis significantly reduced mortality and wound morbidity (number of debridements) in this study, especially among nonclostridial infections. we conclude that hbo should be used routinely in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis.
a pilot study of suramin in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. suramin sodium is an aromatic polysulfonated compound that was originally introduced as an antiparasitic agent in the 1920s. recently, in view of its ability to bind and disrupt the function of multiple growth factors and cellular enzyme systems, the authors have been evaluating the role of suramin as an antitumor agent. in this study, 12 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received parenteral suramin by continuous infusion to a peak plasma suramin level greater than 200 micrograms/ml. no objective radiographic responses were observed, although greater than 90% necrosis of multiple tumor sites was documented at autopsy in one patient and normalization of tumor-related hypercalcemia occurred in another patient. two patients had stable disease of 10 and 28 weeks' duration, respectively. significant toxicities included hypotension related to sepsis and resulting in renal insufficiency (one patient), development of liver function abnormalities (one patient) marked thrombocytopenia (one patient), prothrombin time prolongation (all patients), vortex keratopathy (two patients), and grade 1 sensory neuropathy (two patients). on the basis of the current results, suramin does not appear to be an active single agent against metastatic renal cell carcinoma when administered by this dosing schedule.
deceptive bizarre stromal cells in polyps and ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract. the clinical and pathologic features of 33 pseudomalignant lesions of the gastrointestinal tract with bizarre stromal cells are reported. deceptive histologic changes were identified in ulcers of seven patients and in inflammatory polyps of 26. a misdiagnosis of malignant neoplasm was made in six of the 33 patients (three polyps and three ulcers). a history of gastrointestinal bleeding and/or inflammatory bowel disease was common. the bizarre stromal cells were usually distributed beneath the ulcerated mucosa or within granulation tissue. they stained strongly for vimentin in 20 of 23 cases. some of the bizarre cells also stained for muscle specific actin (seven of 23 cases). the cells appear to be reactive fibroblasts or myofibroblasts. follow-up information obtained on 24 of the 33 patients (including four of the six cases initially diagnosed as malignant) revealed 22 patients to be alive without evidence of a malignant neoplasm (average follow-up, 13 months). two patients died of other causes. correct recognition of these bizarre stromal cells in gastrointestinal ulcers and inflammatory polyps will prevent a potentially serious diagnostic pitfall.
patients' observations of bioprosthetic valve failure: "my heart is honking, doctor". audible cardiac murmurs are uncommon and may indicate severe native valve dysfunction. in six patients with bioprosthetic mitral valves audible honking systolic murmurs suddenly developed. doppler echocardiography showed characteristic striated regurgitant signals. at operation each prosthesis had torn cusps. new audible murmurs and striated doppler signals originating from mitral bioprosthetic valves are indicators of cusp tears. recognition of this is important because early detection of prosthetic valve dysfunction may improve subsequent surgical outcome.
smooth muscle cell proliferation and restenosis after stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty it has been shown that coronary excimer laser angioplasty can remove atherosclerotic intracoronary tissue. stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty was successfully performed in a 53 year old white man with 90% stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery and exertional angina (canadian cardiovascular society class iii). the lesion was reduced to a 30% residual stenosis with use of a 1.2 mm and subsequently a 1.8 mm diameter laser catheter. early follow-up angiography 24 h later revealed persistent patency and unchanged lesion diameter of the target vessel. the patient was free of symptoms during the 2 month follow-up period, but died suddenly while playing in a tennis tournament 63 days after the procedure. postmortem histologic examination revealed 80% restenosis at the lesion site without plaque disruption or thrombosis. specific staining of the histologic specimen for smooth muscle cells using alpha-actin revealed significant smooth muscle cell proliferation at the site of coronary excimer laser angioplasty. however, most of the vessel narrowing appeared to be due to underlying fibrotic plaque as a result of insufficient tissue ablation. this was probably related to the size of the currently available catheters, which are too small to create a large channel.
infiltration of epinephrine in tonsillectomy: a randomized, prospective, double-blind study. a variety of hemostatic agents and techniques have been used in an attempt to reduce intraoperative blood loss and postoperative bleeding in tonsillectomy. the efficacy of most of these substances and techniques has been judged primarily on clinical impressions. because of the paucity of prospective studies, a randomized, prospective, double-blind study, using the patients as their own controls, was conducted. ninety-two patients were injected before tonsillectomy in a random, double-blind fashion with normal saline solution in one tonsil and 1:100,000 epinephrine in the other. the blood loss, time of dissection, and postoperative bleeding were recorded separately for each tonsil. cardiac manifestations were also monitored. the tonsils injected with epinephrine had a statistically significant reduction in blood loss and dissection time when compared with those injected with normal saline. subjectively, dissection was easier on the epinephrine-injected side. there was no difference in the incidence of postoperative hemorrhage. cardiac manifestations of epinephrine were minimal and transient. this study demonstrates that epinephrine is useful in reducing hemorrhage during tonsillectomy and can be used safely with the appropriate inhalation anesthetics.
leukaemia complicating treatment for hodgkin's disease: the experience of the british national lymphoma investigation. objective--to determine the incidence of and risk factors for the development of secondary acute leukaemia and myelodysplasia in patients treated in british national lymphoma investigation's studies of hodgkin's disease since 1970. patients--2676 patients entered into hodgkin's disease studies between february 1970 and november 1986. data accrued up to november 1988 were analysed, ensuring a minimum follow up period of two years. design--retrospective analysis of multicentre trial data by case-control and life table methods. results--17 cases of secondary leukaemia were recorded in this group of 2676 patients, giving an overall risk at 15 years of 1.7%. the risks of leukaemia after chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy with radiotherapy were not significantly different. the risk of leukaemia increased sharply with the amount of treatment given as measured by the number of attempts at treatment. the 15 year risks of leukaemia were 0.2%, 2.3%, and 8.1% for patients receiving one, two, or three or more attempts at treatment. the highest risk, 22.8% at 15 years, was observed in patients treated with lomustine (ccnu), and a case-control study suggested that this was an independent risk factor. the risk of secondary leukaemia was largely related to the overall quantity of treatment, although exposure to lomustine seemed to be an important risk factor. treatment with both drugs and radiation was not more leukaemogenic than treatment with drugs alone. the greatest risk of secondary leukaemia was seen in multiply treated patients who were unlikely to be cured of hodgkin's disease. conclusions--avoidance of secondary leukaemia should be a minor factor in the choice of treatment for hodgkin's disease.
further notes on munchausen's syndrome: a case report of a change from acute abdominal to neurological type. a rare case of munchausen's syndrome beginning in early childhood is described. the diagnosis of munchausen's syndrome was made at the age of 29 years, after the symptoms had changed from acute abdominal to neurological complaints, with feigned loss of consciousness, first ascribed to an encephalitis. insight into the psychopathology of this patient is given by his biography, by assessment of a psychotherapist, who had treated him some years before, and by his observed profile in some psychological tests.
the use of flow cytometry for the prognosis of stage ii adjuvant treated breast cancer patients. characterization of breast cancer cells by histology, flow cytometry, and steroid receptors was performed on 197 stage ii breast node positive cancer patients given adjuvant chemotherapy, plus tamoxifen for patients with positive hormone receptors. histologic and steroid receptor assays were performed using standard techniques; flow cytometric analysis was performed from paraffin-embedded blocks obtained from the primary tumor. quality control studies on reproducibility, tissue heterogeneity, and analysis procedures have been included. of the 197 patients studied, aneuploidy was found in 102 (52%); the median %s value was 8% with a range of 0.4% to 38%. our results demonstrated that number of positive nodes, receptor status, and grade were of prognostic value. cell cycle kinetic data were not of independent prognostic value in this series. however, ploidy could differentiate in prognosis in the receptor-negative subgroup. patients with receptor-negative tumors had a significantly better overall survival if the tumor was diploid in nature. cell kinetics was not significantly prognostic for either receptor subgroup, although patients with higher %s tended to have better relapse-free and overall survival. this is in disagreement with other studies and may demonstrate that treatment has confounded our results and diminished the ability of flow cytometry data to help predict outcome.
low-dose aspirin versus anticoagulants for prevention of coronary graft occlusion. the prevention of graft occlusion by aspirin (100 mg/day) or heparin followed by phenprocoumon was investigated in a randomized trial in 235 patients after aortocoronary bypass operation. aspirin treatment started 24 hours before, and heparin 6 hours and phenprocoumon 2 days after surgery. the results of the vein graft angiography and the clinical outcome 3 months postoperatively did not differ: 22% of 218 vein graft distal anastomoses in the aspirin group and 20% of 272 in the anticoagulant group were occluded. at least 1 occluded distal anastomosis was present in 38% of 74 patients in the aspirin-treated group and in 39% of 86 in the anticoagulant group. worst-case analysis of all randomized patients showed graft occlusions, cardiovascular complications or lost to follow-up in 42% of 122 aspirin-treated patients compared with 41% of 113 patients treated with anticoagulants. for grafts with endarterectomy the occlusion rate was lower in the aspirin (12% of 49) than in the anticoagulant (22% of 41) group (p less than or equal to 0.05). increased perioperative blood loss in the aspirin group (1,211 +/- 814 ml in the first 48 hours vs 874 +/- 818 ml in the anticoagulant group [p less than or equal to 0.001]) without a higher reoperation rate indicates effective platelet inhibition with low-dose aspirin. because occlusion rates were equal but high in these patients with advanced stage of coronary artery disease, a combination of low-dose aspirin and anticoagulation should be investigated to reduce graft occlusion rates further.
selective prolongation of qrs late potentials by sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs: relation to slowing of ventricular tachycardia. electrophysiologic study versus electrocardiographic monitoring trial (esvem) investigators. sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs have preferential effects on diseased, slowly conducting myocardium, and slowing of tachycardia caused by these drugs may result primarily from further prolongation of conduction time in slowly conducting tissue. in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia, late potentials detected by signal-averaged electrocardiography (ecg) are thought to arise from slowly conducting ventricular myocardium. this study tested the hypothesis that sodium channel blocking drugs selectively prolong the late potential, or terminal low amplitude signal, portion of the signal-averaged qrs complex and that prolongation of the late potential would correlate with slowing of ventricular tachycardia. fifty-six drug trials in 32 patients with spontaneous and inducible ventricular arrhythmias were studied. prolongation of the late potential (11 +/- 15 ms) was significantly greater than prolongation of the initial portion of the qrs complex (4 +/- 9 ms) (p = 0.01). selective prolongation of the late potential by drugs resulted in significantly greater qrs prolongation detectable by signal-averaged ecg than by standard ecg (p less than 0.0001). in 40 trials in which ventricular tachycardia remained inducible during drug therapy, the increase in induced tachycardia cycle length correlated strongly with the increase in late potential duration (p = 0.005) but not with change in the initial portion of the qrs complex. these data suggest that in patients with ventricular tachycardia, sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs have preferential effects on slowly conducting tissue and that drug effect on slowly conducting tissue contributes to prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length.
effect of captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in patients with angina pectoris and heart failure the effects of captopril and placebo were compared in 18 patients with chronic heart failure and angina pectoris with use of a double-blind crossover trial design. symptoms were assessed by patient treatment preference, visual analogue scores and nitroglycerin consumption. exercise performance was assessed using two different treadmill protocols of different work intensity with simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption and by supine bicycle exercise and simultaneous radionuclide ventriculography. arrhythmias were assessed by 48 h ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. patients generally preferred placebo to captopril, and this appeared to be due to an increase in symptoms of angina with captopril. treadmill exercise time on a high intensity protocol was shorter with captopril than with placebo; on a low intensity protocol, angina became a more frequent limiting symptom even though overall exercise performance was not changed. the heart rate-blood pressure product was reduced, but largely because of a reduction in blood pressure rather than in heart rate. during supine bicycle exercise, no differences in symptoms, exercise performance, ejection fraction or changes in blood pressure were noted and ventricular arrhythmias were reduced. captopril does not appear to be clinically useful in alleviating angina pectoris in patients with heart failure, and this effect may be related to a decrease in coronary perfusion pressure. nonetheless, desirable metabolic effects, a reduction in arrhythmias and potential effects on survival require further study of captopril in patients with both angina and heart failure.
subcutaneous emphysema producing airway compromise after anesthesia for reduction of a mandibular fracture. a case report and review of the literature. subcutaneous emphysema can occur as the result of trauma, surgery, and anesthesia. a case is presented of extensive subcutaneous emphysema after anesthesia for oral surgical reduction of a mandibular fracture. a discussion of the diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment of subcutaneous emphysema follows.
pathogenesis of ischemic necrosis in random-pattern skin flaps induced by long-term low-dose nicotine treatment in the rat. the objectives of the present experiments were to study the effects of long-term low-dose nicotine treatment on skin hemodynamics, viability, and microvascular morphology in 4 x 10 cm dorsally based acute random-pattern skin flaps in the rat. in addition, the reversibility of the nicotine-induced detrimental effects on skin-flap viability following cessation of nicotine treatment also was investigated. low-dose nicotine (0.6 mg/kg) administered twice daily and subcutaneously for 24 weeks significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased skin-flap capillary blood flow, distal perfusion, and length and area of skin viability compared with the saline-treated control (n = 15). however, these same parameters in rats (n = 15) whose nicotine treatment had been withheld for 2 weeks prior to skin-flap surgery were not significantly different from the control, thus indicating that the detrimental effects of this long-term, low-dose nicotine treatment were reversible. the mean plasma level of nicotine in the nicotine-treated rats was 8.1 +/- 0.4 micrograms/dl and was within the range of plasma nicotine levels reported for human heavy cigarette smokers. light and electron microscopic studies did not show evidence of histologic damage to the cutaneous microvasculature in acute random-pattern skin flaps and samples of normal (nonoperated) skin in nicotine-treated rats. it is concluded that long-term plasma levels of nicotine similar to those of heavy cigarette smokers are detrimental to the capillary blood flow and viability of random-pattern skin flaps in the rat. these deleterious effects can be avoided if skin flaps are raised 2 weeks after cessation of nicotine treatment. this low-dose nicotine treatment does not cause histologic damage to the microvasculature. other pathogenic mechanisms of nicotine-induced skin flap ischemia are discussed.
a coproporphyria-like syndrome induced by glipizide. a 49-year-old man with a 1-month history of episodic, severe abdominal pain sought medical attention. the patient's history was remarkable for type ii diabetes, for which glipizide therapy had been initiated 2 months earlier. no other medications were being taken at the time the paroxysms of pain began. during the episodes of pain, both examination of the abdomen and abdominal roentgenograms revealed normal findings. initial assessment, including ultrasonography and computed tomographic scanning of the abdomen, upper gastrointestinal and colon roentgenograms, and esophagogastroduodenoscopy, revealed no cause of the pain. empiric trials of famotidine, sucralfate, and antacids failed to relieve the pain. both urine and fecal specimens collected after an attack demonstrated substantially increased coproporphyrins. the glipizide regimen was discontinued; 2 months later, the stool coproporphyrins had decreased to normal levels. at follow-up more than 1 year later, the patient had had no recurrence of abdominal pain. although other orally administered hypoglycemic agents and other sulfa compounds have been reported to precipitate acute attacks of porphyria, to our knowledge this is the first such case associated with glipizide. we suggest that glipizide be added to the list of medications to be avoided in patients with porphyria.
delayed central nervous system myelination in the sudden infant death syndrome. this study was designed to assess whether development of the central nervous system (cns) is delayed in victims of the sudden infant death syndrome (sids). we selected the parameter of myelination because it is a continuously changing and readily accessible marker of cns development in the sids age-range. we assessed myelination blindly in 61 sids and 89 autopsy controls. in 62 sites the degree of myelination was visually graded in myelin-stained histological sections on an ordinal scale of 0-4 using the inferior cerebellar peduncle as an internal standard of degree 3. cases were stratified by postconceptional age at death and sids and controls were compared with respect to myelin degree at each site. significantly delayed myelination (p less than 0.05) occurred in the sids group in 25 of the 62 sites examined. hypomyelination affected fiber systems in which myelination is initiated before or after birth and which myelinate with different tempos and preferentially affect pyramidal and cerebellar (somatomotor) and prefrontal-temporal-limbic (visceromotor) systems. hypomyelination was not associated with individual clinicopathologic variables in the sids group. somatic growth and brain weight were significantly greater in sids than controls. therefore, we suggest that sids is associated with a developmental cns disorder. although delayed cns myelination most likely shares a common antecedent with sudden death and is not its cause, the role of somato- and viscero-motor systems in central cardiorespiratory control and arousal warrants further analysis in sids.
breast cancer and dietary and plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin a. a case-control study of breast cancer was conducted in buffalo. participants completed a food frequency questionnaire and donated a fasting blood sample before definitive workup for breast masses. dietary and plasma concentrations of carotenoids and retinol for 83 women found to have breast cancer were compared with those of 113 women found to be free of breast cancer (control subjects). there were no case-control differences in dietary estimates of vitamin a intake or in plasma alpha-carotene and lycopene. however, subjects with breast cancer had lower concentrations of plasma beta-carotene than did control subjects (p = 0.02). there was no overall association between plasma retinol and breast cancer but a positive relationship was observed between retinol and breast cancer in the subgroup with low beta-carotene values. these results suggest that low plasma beta-carotene is associated with increased risk of breast cancer. other studies will need to determine whether low carotene concentrations are a subtle effect of the disease or might be causally related to breast cancer.
sudden death caused by coronary artery aneurysms: a late complication of kawasaki disease. the authors describe three cases (two blacks and one latin american) of sudden death caused by late complications of kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome). at autopsy each heart contained multiple coronary artery aneurysms with luminal stenosis caused by intimal hyperplasia and thrombi. although virtually all fatal cases of kawasaki disease occur within six months of the onset of symptoms, there have been other reported deaths up to 14 years after the acute illness. the coronary artery aneurysms of kawasaki disease may persist and cause death years after the acute illness.
mutations in src homology regions 2 and 3 of activated chicken c-src that result in preferential transformation of mouse or chicken cells. src homology regions 2 and 3 (sh2 and sh3) of proteins encoded by src and closely related genes are conserved domains believed to modulate the protein-tyrosine kinase activity of this class of proteins, perhaps through interactions with other proteins. to explore the possibility of using src mutants as probes for such interactions, we have compared mouse nih 3t3 cells with chicken embryo fibroblasts as host cells for 24 previously described substitution and deletion mutants with lesions in the sh2- and sh3-encoding regions of a transformation-competent allele of chicken c-src. although several of these mutants are equally competent or equally defective for transformation of the two cell types, four mutants (three of which map within sh3) preferentially transform nih 3t3 cells, and seven mutants (all of which map within sh2) preferentially transform chicken cells. some of the sh2 mutants least able to transform mouse cells exhibit augmented transforming activity in chicken cells. in general, the in vitro protein-tyrosine kinase activities of the mutants correlated with transforming activities. thus, in many cases, the catalytic activity of a mutant protein depended upon the host cell in which the protein was made. such host-dependent mutants may be especially useful reagents for biochemical and genetic studies of the src gene family.
adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum in patients less than 40 years of age. from 1962 to 1988, 50 of 801 patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum treated at the national naval medical center were less than 40 years old. symptoms were present in 47 of the younger patients at presentation. the mean duration of time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis in this group was 4.9 months. risk factors for carcinoma of the colon and rectum were identified in 14 of 50 patients less than 40 years old. a significantly greater proportion of patients less than 40 years old had stage c disease compared with the older group of patients (42 versus 22 per cent, p = 0.014). stage b disease was more common in patients more than 40 years of age (44.8 versus 26.0 per cent, p = 0.014). the proportion of patients with stages a and d disease was similar in both age groups. the cumulative survival rate in this group at five and ten years was 43 and 34 per cent, respectively. the five year survival rate in patients less than 40 years old with stage b disease was 76 per cent and with stage c disease, 37 per cent. all young patients with stage d disease were dead at 28 months. synchronous and metachronous carcinomas of the colon and rectum were uncommon in patients less than 40 years old. patients less than 40 years of age with carcinoma of the colon and rectum are usually symptomatic and have advanced disease at the time of presentation. survival time for these patients for each stage of disease is similar to the over-all population of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum.
pancreatitis. pancreatitis is a common but rather poorly understood entity most often associated with alcohol abuse or biliary tract disease. despite the availability of a variety of diagnostic tests and imaging techniques, the diagnosis of pancreatitis continues to be primarily a clinical one. of major concern to the emergency physician is distinguishing pancreatitis from other, potentially lethal, causes of abdominal pain, and identifying those patients with severe pancreatitis who are at risk for a complicated course secondary to the remote systemic effects of the disease.
survival of premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. long-term follow-up of eastern cooperative group and cancer and leukemia group b studies. in premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer, differences in survival curves early during follow-up can be misleading. the authors therefore analyzed long-term survival in 378 patients, entered in three randomized trials, started between 1973 and 1978. combined data from the three trials were used to increase the power for identifying prognostic variables. cancer and leukemia group b (calgb) trial 7382 randomized patients to oophorectomy plus either cyclophosphamide or combination chemotherapy or observation. eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog) 2174 randomized patients who had not progressed 3 months after oophorectomy to combination chemotherapy or combination chemotherapy or observation. trial ecog 2177 randomized estrogen receptor (er) positive or er-unknown patients to oophorectomy plus combination chemotherapy or immediate combination chemotherapy, and er-negative patients were directly assigned to combination chemotherapy. hence er-negative patients need not have been healthy enough to be randomized to oophorectomy. with only 14% of the patients still alive, median survival on the three studies was 30, 24, and 28 months. the median survival of individual treatments changed noticeably in ecog 2174 and ecog 2177 with long-term follow-up. at this time there are no differences in survival between randomized regimens in any of the three trials. in a multivariate model, factors associated with significantly poorer survival were visceral-dominant disease, nodal metastases, breast metastases, age younger than 45 years, er negativity, and not receiving chemotherapy immediately after oophorectomy. this treatment difference was thus not due to imbalances in the prognostic variables used in the model, but it may be due to imbalances of unknown prognostic factors or differences in patient selection.
persistent mullerian duct syndrome. persistent mullerian syndrome is rare. a case of phenotypically normal male with persistent mullerian structures that consisted of a bicornuate uterus, fallopian tubes, and upper third of the vagina is reported. these unusual structures were found in association with bilateral cryptorchidism and a right inguinal hernia, and were diagnosed while repairing the hernia in the neonatal period. the uterus and fallopian tubes were removed via laparotomy when the child was eighteen months old; at the same time a bilateral orchiopexy was performed. to avoid damage to the vas deferens, which lay in closely to the mullerian structures and could not be separated from the vaginal wall, a small segment of the upper third of the vagina was retained. the testicles, although normal on pathologic examination, have shown poor response to hormonal stimulation with human chorionic gonadotropin. long-term follow-up for these patients is necessary because they have an increased risk of testicular tumors developing.
a new method of haemodynamic assessment of mitral stenosis in atrial fibrillation: construction of a nomogram. accurate haemodynamic assessment of mitral stenosis by hydraulic formulas requires measurement of the mean valve gradient and the cardiac output. the calculation is laborious, particularly in the presence of atrial fibrillation when averaged values obtained from multiple beat-to-beat determinations must be used. the relations between valve area, end diastolic gradient, and heart rate in 20 patients with mitral stenosis and atrial fibrillation were examined. in each patient the end diastolic pressure gradient for each cardiac cycle was related linearly to the rr interval of that cycle, and this relation was unchanged on exercise. the slope (s) and intercept (i) of this relation correlated with the degree of mitral stenosis as measured by the gorlin valve area. the regression equations describing these relations were then used to construct a nomogram relating end diastolic pressure gradient to mitral valve area at different heart rates. when the nomogram was applied to catheterisation data from a further 30 patients the results correlated well with direct calculation of valve area by the gorlin formula. the nomogram is simple to use, does not require measurement of cardiac output, and is independent of heart rate so that it is unnecessary for the patient to exercise during catheterisation.
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection in children from alabang, metro manila. the etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) was identified in 235 (43.8%) of 537 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age. clinical evidence of measles was found in 258 (48.0%) patients, of whom 59 had a second viral infection. a viral agent was identified in an additional 121 patients, so that a total of 379 (70.6%) had viral infections. after measles, respiratory syncytial virus was the most common respiratory virus. bacteremia was noted in 72 children (13.4%), occurring as frequently in children with measles (14.8%) as in those without (12.1%); haemophilus influenzae and salmonella typhi were predominant in the former, and h. influenzae, staphylococcus aureus, and streptococcus pneumoniae were prominent in the latter. the presence of bacterial antigen in urine was not helpful in identifying bacterial infection. extrapulmonary and intrapleural complications, concomitant measles, complicated alri, female gender, and malnutrition were associated with increased mortality among children with alri. the importance of measles immunization, vitamin a supplementation for alleviation of defects associated with malnutrition, and timely antimicrobial therapy is emphasized.
postoperative analgesic requirements in patients exposed to positive intraoperative suggestions. objective--to establish whether positive suggestions given to a patient under general anaesthesia reduce postoperative pain and analgesic requirements. design--prospective double blind randomised study. setting--operating theatre and gynaecology ward of a teaching hospital. patients--63 woman undergoing elective abdominal hysterectomy were randomised to be played either a tape of positive suggestions or a blank tape during the operation through a personal stereo system. interventions--three women were withdrawn from the study. anaesthesia was standardised for all of the women. postoperative analgesia was provided through a patient controlled analgesia system for the first 24 hours. pain scores were recorded every six hours. main outcome measures--morphine consumption over the first 24 hours after the operation; pain scores. results--mean morphine requirements were 51.0 mg (95% confidence interval 42.1 to 60.0 mg in the women played positive suggestions; and 65.7 mg (55.6 to 75.7 mg) in those played a blank tape. the point estimate (95% confidence interval) for the difference of means was 14.6 mg (22.4%) (1.9 (2.9%) to 27.3 mg (41.6%] (p = 0.028). pain scores were similar in the two groups. conclusion--positive intraoperative suggestions seem to have a significant effect in reducing patients' morphine requirements in the early postoperative period.
transgenic mice susceptible to poliovirus. poliovirus-sensitive transgenic mice were produced by introducing the human gene encoding cellular receptors for poliovirus into the mouse genome. expression of the receptor mrnas in tissues of the transgenic mice was analyzed by using rna blot hybridization and the polymerase chain reaction. the human gene is expressed in many tissues of the transgenic mice just as in tissues of humans. the transgenic mice are susceptible to all three poliovirus serotypes, and the mice inoculated with poliovirus show clinical symptoms similar to those observed in humans and monkeys. rabbit antipoliovirus serum detects the antigens mainly in motor neurons in the anterior horn of the spinal cord and in nerve cells in the medulla oblongata and pons of the paralyzed transgenic mice. therefore, cell types sensitive to poliovirus in the central nervous system of the transgenic mice appear to be identical to those of humans and monkeys. furthermore, many more doses of oral poliovirus vaccine strains than of the virulent strains are required to cause paralysis in the transgenic mice. this may reflect the observation that the virulent strain multiplies more efficiently in the central nervous system than the attenuated strain. thus, the transgenic mice may become an excellent new animal model to study molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis of poliovirus and to assess oral poliovirus vaccines.
prognostic significance of exercise versus resting blood pressure in hypertensive men. the outcome of 143 male hypertensive patients, investigated in the period 1972-1982, was ascertained in 1989 to determine if brachial artery pressure measured during a progressive graded exercise test on the bicycle ergometer is a better predictor of mortality and cardiovascular events than pressure at rest. during the total follow-up time of 1,573 patient years, 27 patients suffered at least one fatal or nonfatal cardiovascular event and 13 patients died. using the cox regression model, the age-adjusted relative hazard rates of systolic pressure at supine rest, at 50 w, at peak work load, and at 50% of peak exercise capacity were significant for total mortality (p less than or equal to 0.01) and for cardiovascular events (p less than or equal to 0.03). pressure during exercise, however, did not significantly (p = 0.11-0.97) predict the outcome of the patients when age and pressure at rest were taken into account. the results were similar for diastolic pressure. in conclusion, intra-arterial pressures at rest and during submaximal and peak exercise significantly predict mortality and the incidence of cardiovascular events in hypertensive men, independent of age. however, there is no additional prognostic precision of the exercise pressures when age and the rest pressure are taken into account.
intraoperative fine needle aspiration cytology of pancreatic lesions. the aim of the present study was to demonstrate the practicality of intraoperative fine needle aspiration (fna) cytology of pancreatic lesions in 43 patients. the indication for performing this procedure was to determine the nature of pancreatic masses. conclusive cytologic diagnoses were reached in 41 patients who represent the present study. on the basis of histologic findings in 30 cases (73.2%) and on clinical findings in 11 cases (26.8%), a final diagnosis of malignant pancreatic disease (mpd) was established in 31 and of benign pancreatic disease (bpd) in 10 patients. among the 31 cases with mpd, the cytologic diagnosis was correct in 30 patients and falsely negative in one patient. among 10 patients with bpd, all the cytologic finding were reported as benign. the sensitivity and specificity and positive and negative predictive values for cytologic findings were 96.8%, 100%, 100%, and 90.9%, respectively. the diagnostic accuracy of fna cytology was 97.6%. no complications followed the procedure. we conclude that intraoperative fna cytology of pancreatic lesions is a simple, safe, highly sensitive, and specific tool in differentiating benign from malignant pancreatic lesions. this procedure should be carried out in any patient with pancreatic mass incidentally found at laparotomy or in a patient undergoing surgery because of suspected nonmetastasizing mpd in whom repeated imaging guided fna failed to demonstrate malignancy.
mechanisms of gas-exchange impairment in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. to investigate the mechanisms of pulmonary gas-exchange impairment in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) and to evaluate their potential relationship to the co diffusing capacity (dlco), we studied 15 patients with ipf (mean dlco, 52% of predicted) at rest (breathing room air and pure o2) and during exercise. we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and respiratory gas-exchange variables, and we separated the ventilation-perfusion (vaq) mismatching and o2 diffusion limitation components of arterial hypoxemia using the multiple inert gas elimination technique. at rest va/q mismatching was moderate (2 to 4% of cardiac output perfusing poorly or unventilated lung units), and 19% of aapo2 was due to o2 diffusion limitation. during exercise va/q mismatch did not worsen but the diffusion component of arterial hypoxemia increased markedly (40% aapo2, p less than 0.005). we observed that those patients with higher pulmonary vascular tone (more release of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction) showed less pulmonary hypertension during exercise (p less than 0.05), less va/q mismatching [at rest (p less than 0.005) and during exercise (p less than 0.0025)], and higher arterial po2 during exercise (p = 0.01). we also found that dlco corrected for alveolar volume (kco) correlated with the mechanisms of hypoxemia during exercise [va/q mismatching (p less than 0.025) and o2 diffusion limitation (p less than 0.05)] and with the increase in pulmonary vascular resistance elicited by exercise (p less than 0.005). in conclusion, we showed that the abnormalities of the pulmonary vasculature are key to modulate gas exchange in ipf, especially during exercise.
volumetric atrophy of the amygdala in alzheimer's disease: quantitative serial reconstruction. the present study quantitatively assessed volumes of the amygdala and its subnuclei in autopsied cases of advanced alzheimer's disease (ad) for comparison with age-matched controls. amygdalar nuclei showed significant atrophy in ad with the exception of the paralaminar portion of the basal nucleus. the magnocellular regions of the amygdala showed proportionately greater size reductions as a fraction of total amygdala volume than did other areas. computerized reconstruction of the amygdala provided three-dimensional views of a variety of structural alterations accompanying the volumetric declines with ad. the apparent selective vulnerability of the magnocellular amygdalar areas coincides with the loss of large nerve cells in ad.
a unified hypothesis for the complex genetics of hla associations with iddm. our understanding of the role of hla genes associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) is in disarray, despite recent improvements in the definition of specific alleles and haplotypes. some genes are highly associated with iddm, other genes are associated with resistance to iddm, and some highly associated susceptibility genes are markedly influenced by trans-associated synergistic effects (dr3/4 heterozygotes) or protective effects (dr2/4 heterozygotes). this plethora of genetic associations has spawned the notion that there are many contributing susceptibility genes, which, in turn, has led to the search for shared structural features among different genes on iddm-associated haplotypes. from a more mechanistic point of view, however, the wide range of variable iddm associations, with both cis- and trans-encoded protective and/or synergistic effects, suggests a different approach. this article proposes a hypothesis in which the different hla associations with iddm can be simply explained by a single unifying concept: a hierarchy of affinities determines the interaction between a diabetogenic peptide and different class ii molecules, and an individual is susceptible to iddm if the class ii molecule in that individual with the highest affinity for such a peptide is a dq beta susceptibility gene. the explicit formulation of this proposal and its genetic implications provide an explanation for hla-encoded dominant "protection" and for some of the more subtle genetic observations related to cis and trans influences in iddm susceptibility.
invasive papillary carcinoma of the breast: mammographic appearance. the mammographic findings in 18 patients with invasive papillary carcinoma were studied retrospectively. the mammograms of 10 patients showed a multinodular pattern, and seven patients had solitary nodules. one patient had an irregular, ill-defined mass in the retroareolar region. two patients were found to have carcinoma in the contralateral breast, and two patients had intraductal carcinoma adjacent to the invasive papillary carcinoma. the varied mammographic features that may occur with this rare breast malignancy are discussed.
second cancers following non-hodgkin's lymphoma. the risk of second malignancies following non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) was estimated in 29,153 patients diagnosed with nhl between 1973 and 1987 in one of nine areas participating in the national cancer institute's surveillance, epidemiology, and end results program. compared with the general population, nhl patients were at a significantly increased risk of developing second cancers (observed/expected [o/e] = 1.18; o = 1231). the o/e ratio increased significantly with time to reach 1.77 in 10-year survivors. significant excesses were noted for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (o/e = 2.88), cancers of the bladder (o/e = 1.30), kidney (o/e = 1.47), and lung (o/e = 1.57), malignant melanoma (o/e = 2.44), and hodgkin's disease (o/e = 4.16). chemotherapy appeared related to subsequent acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) and bladder cancer. radiation therapy was associated with anll and possibly cancers of the lung, bladder, and bone. malignant melanoma was not clearly related to initial nhl treatment.
quantification of midline shift as a predictor of poor outcome following head injury. a retrospective study of patient outcome, based on admission computed tomography, was carried out in 75 consecutive patients with head injury. computed tomography data collected included the type and extent of intracranial hemorrhage, the extent of midline shift, and the ratio of midline shift compared with the extent of intracranial hemorrhage. midline shift was considered to be out of proportion to intracranial hemorrhage when the midline shift of the septum pellucidum exceeded the extent of the hemorrhage as measured radially from the inner table of the skull. when computed tomography data were analyzed by logistic regression, significant predictive factors for poor outcome were intracranial hemorrhage (34%), intracranial hemorrhage with midline shift (61%), and midline shift out of proportion to the extent of intracranial hemorrhage (88%). when patient outcome and mortality rates are considered, our study indicates that midline shift out of proportion to the extent of intracranial hemorrhage is a highly useful predictor of poor patient outcome following head injury.
topographic mapping of electrophysiologic measures in patients with homonymous hemianopia we analyzed electroencephalographic (eeg) activity and spatial distribution of the pattern-reversal visual evoked potential (pvep) in 20 patients with unilateral lesions in the retrochiasmal visual pathways. focal abnormalities that were consistent with lesion location were present in the topographically analyzed eeg or vep of 85% of the patients, compared with a 70% detection rate for conventional analysis techniques. quantitative analysis of spectrally analyzed eeg revealed focal abnormality in 7 patients whose conventional eeg was interpreted as either normal or diffusely slow. however, focal paroxysmal spikes present in the eeg of 1 patient were missed by eeg mapping, and a false localization of quantitative eeg abnormality contralateral to the lesion occurred in 1 patient. topographic analysis of the pvep was no more sensitive to retrochiasmatic lesions than conventional analysis of 2 lateral occipital electrodes. we conclude that topographic mapping is a valid technique in the detection of localized cerebral lesions.
abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries. the causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial. cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation, pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization. right heart (especially right ventricular) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 (81%) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 (46%) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. in contrast, only 2 (6%) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests (p less than 0.001). none of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests. cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. no relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing. thus, patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli. this increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain. the same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown.
risk factors for metastases in patients with retinoblastoma. the study is based upon a review of data from 583 consecutive patients with retinoblastoma over the years 1956 to 1986. mean follow-up was 8 years, and median was 5.5 years. in 41 patients, metastases developed within 5 years. the influence of clinical and histopathologic risk factors on the occurrence of metastases was first analyzed by univariate tests. significant variables were then reevaluated using the cox proportional hazards method. four factors were found to be independently associated with the development of metastases: optic nerve invasion with and without involvement of the resection line, choroidal invasion and enucleation of an affected eye more than 120 days after initial diagnosis. the 5-year metastatic risks associated with these factors were 67%, 13%, 8%, and 4%, respectively. the relative risk estimate, calculated from the cox model, was used for a score classification with groups of low, medium, and high metastatic risk. the 5-year incidence of metastases was 4%, 43%, and 68%, respectively.
sinus arrest induced by trivial nasal stimulation during alfentanil-nitrous oxide anaesthesia. a case is reported of bradycardia and sinus arrest induced by insertion of a nasal temperature probe. other possible causes of bradycardia and sinus arrest under anaesthesia are reviewed briefly. evidence for the neurological basis of a nasocardiac reflex, similar to the oculocardiac reflex, is presented. a minor, trivial stimulus may elicit this reflex.
dispatcher-assisted telephone cpr: common delays and time standards for delivery. study objectives: to determine the rate of bystander cpr before and after implementation of a telephone cpr program in king county; to determine the reasons for dispatcher delays in identifying patients in cardiac arrest in delivering cpr instructions over the telephone; and to suggest time standards for delivery of the telephone cpr message. design: an ongoing cardiac arrest surveillance system to calculate the annual bystander cpr rates from 1976 through 1988. two hundred sixty-seven taped recordings of calls reporting cardiac arrests to nine emergency dispatch centers during 1988 were reviewed and timed. setting: king county, washington, excluding the city of seattle. participants: two hundred sixty-seven persons with out-of-hospital cardiac arrests receiving emergency medical services. arrests in doctors' offices, clinics, or nursing homes were excluded. interventions: dispatcher-assisted telephone cpr. measurements and main results: the rate of bystander cpr increased from 32% (1976 through 1981) to 54% (1982 through 1988) after implementation of the dispatcher-assisted telephone cpr program, although an increase in survival could not be demonstrated. the median time for dispatchers to identify the problem was 75 seconds; to deliver the early protocols, 19 seconds; to deliver the ventilation instructions, 25 seconds; and to deliver compression instructions, 30 seconds. the total time to deliver the entire cpr message was 2.3 minutes. the most frequent cause for delay was unnecessary questions (57%) with questions about patient age asked most frequently (32%). other causes included the caller not being near the patient (29%) and deviations from protocol (22%). conclusion: in a metropolitan emergency medical services system, a dispatcher-assisted telephone cpr program was associated with an increase in bystander cpr. delays in proper delivery of telephone cpr can be minimized through training.
autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease caused by deletion at a dinucleotide repeat. chronic granulomatous disease (cgd) is a rare inherited condition rendering neutrophils incapable of killing invading pathogens. this condition is due to the failure of a multicomponent microbicidal oxidase that normally yields a low-midpoint-potential b cytochrome (cytochrome b245). although defects in the x chromosome-linked cytochrome account for the majority of cgd patients, as many as 30% of cgd cases are due to an autosomal recessive disease. of these, greater than 90% have been shown to be defective in the synthesis of a 47-kda cytosolic component of the oxidase. we demonstrate here in three unrelated cases of autosomal recessive cgd that the identical underlying molecular lesion is a dinucleotide deletion at a gtgt tandem repeat, corresponding to the acceptor site of the first intron-exon junction. slippage of the dna duplex at this site may contribute to the high frequency of defects in this gene.
heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes. an unrecognized problem. heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes is both unknown to clinicians and a potential source of confusion with metastatic disease. we reviewed the english literature and found 289 cases of heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes. the majority (84%) of these patients were operated on for malignant neoplasms. the most frequent sites of occurrence was the pelvis (67%), followed by the axilla (14%), neck (14%), groin (3%), abdomen (2%), and mediastinum (less than 1%). the tissue seen is site-specific and frequently resembles a neighboring organ. three cases have been reported in which heterotopic tissue was mistaken for metastatic disease. these cases illustrate the importance of being familiar with heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes and identifying it when it does occur, to avoid inappropriate therapy.
interval gangrene of the lower extremity: a complication of vascular surgery. interval gangrene, segmental ischemic necrosis proximal to a functioning distal anastomosis, is a rare complication after successful peripheral vascular reconstruction. previous reports have demonstrated the gravity of this event in that major limb amputation was required in all cases. two cases are presented to emphasize the need for maintaining segmental collateral circulation after successful distal extremity bypass. despite a satisfactory result after distal (inframalleolar) bypass of a popliteal aneurysm, one patient had progressive ischemic gangrene of the upper leg and eventually required amputation. the contralateral limb was successfully managed by distal ligation of the superficial femoral artery, which maintained collateral flow from the proximal superficial femoral artery to the knee and leg. the second patient required a microvascular free flap to replace tissue loss and provide vascular graft coverage after initial multiple bypass failures and a final successful remote reconstruction to the dorsal artery of the foot that excluded the popliteal-crural collateral network. patients with inadequate collateral circulation or disruption of the profundus or geniculate collateral pathways may require revascularization of sequential vascular beds. recognition of the potential for interval gangrene is essential since the likelihood of its occurrence will increase in proportion to the number of distal bypasses being performed for limb salvage. although adjunctive procedures will not completely eliminate the possibility of interval gangrene, awareness of this phenomenon with attention to the segmental collateral circulation can decrease the incidence of its occurrence.
the prolonged burner syndrome. over the course of a single football season, six players evaluated by the medical staff had burners that displayed a prolonged neurologic recovery. these players were examined and subsequently evaluated with isokinetic testing and electrodiagnostic studies to elucidate better the short-term natural history of the prolonged burner syndrome. evidence of muscular weakness at 72 hours postinjury best correlated with positive electrodiagnostic findings. no correlation was found between the initial physical examination findings and the results of electrodiagnostic testing. isokinetic strength evaluation demonstrated many relative strength differences that were difficult to discern with manual muscle testing. the return of a player to athletic competition following this injury should largely be based on the clinical examination.
medicinal leeches: once again at the forefront of medicine. medical grade leeches have recently been used in the management of acute problems relative to venous congestion in patients with traumatic injuries and surgical problems. specific cases, especially in the realm of reconstructive microsurgery, have demonstrated the effectiveness and application of leech therapy. specific contraindications include arterial insufficiency from either anatomic or mechanical obstruction. we present five illustrative cases of successful therapeutic intervention.
on the metallothionein, glutathione and cysteine relationship in rat liver. stress and starvation increased liver metallothionein (mt) and decreased liver glutathione (gsh) levels. serum cysteine plus cystine levels were increased by stress. the exogenous administration of gsh, while not modifying hepatic gsh content, increased liver mt levels in basal and starved rats but not in stressed rats. liver and serum cysteine levels were increased by gsh administration, a process partially reverted by the irreversible inhibitor of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, alpha-amino-3-chloro-4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid. mouse and rat liver mt levels were also increased by buthionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of gsh synthesis, indicating that gsh is not a necessary precursor of mt. in addition, the hepatic mt content was increased by the administration of cysteine in a dose-response manner. these results suggest that hepatic mt synthesis is elevated by increased cysteine pools, and that mt, gsh and cysteine levels are somehow inter-related. mt, besides gsh, may be contemplated as a putative intracellular reservoir of cysteine in the liver of adult rats.
prospective study of early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis. we prospectively monitored 140 cirrhotic patients for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma for 6 yr, using periodical screening by high-resolution convex-array ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein. twenty-eight patients were positive for hbs antigen, 26 patients had received blood transfusions and were negative for hbs antigen and 26 patients had a history of heavy drinking. we detected hepatocellular carcinoma in 40 patients during this period. the overall cumulative incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the 6 yr was 39%; the cumulative incidence was 59% in patients with hbsag, 53% in patients who had had blood transfusions and were negative for hbsag and 22% in patients who had a history of heavy drinking and who were without hbsag. detection of the carcinoma in 85% of these 40 patients was based on results of ultrasonography. twenty-six of the patients (65%) had a small hepatocellular carcinoma of 2 cm or less. alpha-fetoprotein levels were lower than 100 ng/ml in 56% of these 40 patients. patients with cirrhosis are at high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma, especially patients with hbsag or with a history of blood transfusion who are negative for hbsag. periodic monitoring by use of ultrasonography in particular is recommended for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma.
global and molecular hemostatic markers in acute myeloid leukemia. patients with acute myeloid leukemia have multiple hemostatic and thrombotic complications, which may or may not result from disseminated intravascular coagulation. previous studies incorporating routine coagulation analyses failed to detect any clinically useful information in most of these patients. in this study, the first comprehensive evaluation of the various aspects of the hemostatic system in a population of patients with acute myeloid leukemia was performed. eighteen patients (23-71 years of age) were studied at either diagnosis or relapse. hemostatic studies were performed at onset and on days 3, 7, and 30 after initiation of therapy. the bone marrow blast counts ranged from 8% to 98%; prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time showed only minor prolongations in a few of these patients. however, in all patients measurement of platelet-associated markers revealed elevated platelet factor 4 and thromboxane b2 and normal 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha levels. fibrinolytic markers showed an increase in d-dimer and tissue plasminogen activator and a decrease in alpha 2-antiplasmin levels. plasminogen, plasminogen activator inhibitor, and fibrinogen levels were normal. coagulation markers demonstrated a decrease in protein c and antithrombin iii levels and an elevation of the thrombin-antithrombin complex. the pretreatment values for all hemostatic markers studied were similar to the values obtained on days 3, 7, and 30 during treatment. this investigation demonstrated a subclinical activation of the components of the hemostatic system possibly leading to a hypercoagulable state. although only six patients (33%) experienced hemorrhagic complications, the risk of bleeding and/or thrombosis was strongly evident in all patients. the significance of finding abnormal levels of specific molecular markers of hemostasis will be established in the future application of such markers in clinical evaluations of leukemic patients known to be at risk for coagulation disorders.
regional variation in brain lactate in leigh syndrome by localized 1h magnetic resonance spectroscopy. localized water-suppressed 1h magnetic resonance spectroscopy was performed in an 11-month-old infant with leigh syndrome. spectra obtained from the basal ganglia, occipital cortex, and brainstem showed elevations in lactate, which were most pronounced in regions where abnormalities were seen with routine t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. this approach has allowed us to examine metabolism in brain tissue directly and noninvasively, and may provide a sensitive means for evaluating metabolic disease and the response to therapy in the brain.
oncologic imaging. staging and follow-up of renal and adrenal carcinoma. computed tomography (ct) has emerged from the 1980s to play a dominant role in the pretreatment staging of renal and adrenal carcinomas. for detection, definition (staging), and determination of resectability or recurrence, ct with intravenous contrast enhancement, and more recently, magnetic resonance imaging (mri) with gadolinium-dtpa, may be the only cross-sectional imaging studies required before institution of appropriate therapy. carcinoma of the kidney is frequently diagnosed by serendipity or detected on incidental ultrasound or ct examinations. real-time ultrasound and color flow doppler offer unique information on tumor vascularity and major venous vascular involvement. positive predictive values of 96% can be achieved for the diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma using contrast-enhanced ct scanning. for follow-up ct and mri are the best imaging techniques for evaluation of the retroperitoneum. mri may distinguish tumor recurrence from fibrosis in selected cases. because primary neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare and often exceed 10 cm at the time of initial diagnosis, the functional nature (endocrine) of adrenal carcinoma may be part of the clinical presentation. because initial stage is critical to survival and extent of surgical therapy, a knowledge of tumor classification is essential to the optimal diagnostic evaluation. newer imaging tests, ct and mri, have superseded conventional urography, ultrasound, and radionuclide studies for the diagnosis and staging of adrenal cancer. early diagnosis and low stage at presentation are critical to survival in patients with adrenal carcinoma. the current concepts for pretreatment imaging evaluation and the role of ct, mri, and ultrasound are outlined. an oncologic imaging approach based on tumor staging and classification for patients with real or suspected renal cell carcinoma and adrenal carcinoma is essential to optimal patient care.
bilateral infrapatellar tendon rupture in a patient with jumper's knee. this is the fourth case report of bilateral infrapatellar tendon rupture as a result of indirect trauma in a patient without systemic disease. this is the only report we have found of jumper's knee leading to simultaneous infrapatellar tendon ruptures.
granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient. granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells. they are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis. rarely, patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia. the authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma. only five such cases have been reported previously. immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells.
a multicentre follow-up study of 1152 patients with myasthenia gravis in italy. a multicentre retrospective study was carried out on the characteristics and course of myasthenia gravis (mg) in italy. data from 1152 patients, fairly representative of the myasthenic population seeking medical advice, were analysed for diagnostic criteria, clinical aspects and therapeutic approaches. mean follow-up was 4.9 years. the disease was correctly diagnosed within 2 years of the onset in 80% of cases. onset of symptoms peaked in the second and third decade in females and fell between 20 and 59 years in males. at first observation 87% of the patients had generalized mg. maximal worsening was observed within 3 years in 77% of patients. at the last follow-up, 35% of cases were symptom-free (pharmacological remission 24%, remission without treatment 11%). the more severe the disease at the first observation and at the maximal worsening of symptoms, the lower was the proportion of remissions. steroids were given in 54% and immunosuppressants in 18%. thymectomy was performed in 72%, mostly in women, younger than age 40, and with generalized mg. thymectomy seemed to improve the course of the disease, mostly in patients operated on shortly after diagnosis and those with generalized mild-to-moderate disease and with a normally involuted thymus. mg was lethal in 4% of patients, principally men, older than 40, in grade 3 or worse at first observation, with a short history of disease, and with thymona.
development and validation of an index for scoring baseline respiratory disease in the very low birth weight neonate. severity index development and validation panels and newborn lung project. an accurate description of the population at risk for neonatal chronic lung disease is clearly of prime importance for comparative studies and the planning of interventions. attempts to explain variations in chronic lung disease rates in such studies have been compromised by lack of a way of estimating the severity of the initial pulmonary disease as a risk factor. therefore, a severity index was developed for use in very low birth weight (less than 1501 g) neonates. special emphasis was placed on applicability of the index in the multicenter observational setting. development followed a clinician panel approach, with the resulting index designed to capture clinical judgment of severity. the index was validated prospectively on neonates in a neonatal intensive care unit, and retrospectively using charts from nine hospitals nationwide. correlations of the index with clinical judgment in the two samples were .95 and .93, respectively. in an additional validation the index combined with birth weight correctly predicted oxygen dependence status at 30 days in 36 of 42 neonates consecutively admitted to five neonatal intensive care units (p = .002). birth weight and the severity index contributed about equally to the prediction, and therefore they seem to represent partly independent components of baseline propensity for prolonged oxygen dependence.
assessment of experimental pericardial effusion using nuclear magnetic resonance imaging techniques. an experimental canine model of pericardial effusion was designed to validate previous clinical nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (nmr) studies. saline (n = 7), serum (n = 4), blood (10% hematocrit [n = 5]; 20% hematocrit [n = 5]), and lipid (n = 4) effusions were chosen to resemble: (1) transudative/exudative, (2) nonhemorrhagic/hemorrhagic, and (3) chylous effusions, respectively. there was a linear correlation between the infused volume and the pericardial/epicardial distance measurements on the nuclear magnetic resonance images. hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic exudative effusions were distinguished from transudative effusions by the low signal intensity of transudative effusions images obtained at a tr (repetition time) of 400 and 800 msec. nonhemorrhagic effusions had significantly lower effusion-to-myocardial signal intensity ratio at tr of 400 msec than did hemorrhagic effusions. differences in hematocrit were not appreciated qualitatively or quantitatively. compared with other effusion types, only chylous effusions were hyperintense to myocardium at a tr of 400 msec. chylous effusions were further uniquely characterized by a decreasing effusion-to-myocardial signal intensity ratio with increasing tr. these experimental findings corroborate the findings of earlier clinical reports and suggest that nmr can provide important assistance in the evaluation of pericardial effusions.
reconstruction after mastectomy. advances in materials and techniques, especially those involving transposition of muscle and skin flaps, have made breast reconstruction possible for most women who undergo mastectomy for breast cancer. the availability of this option can alleviate the breast and chest wall deformity that results from virtually all local treatment of breast cancer. it is essential that the reconstruction surgeon be part of the breast cancer management team from the beginning of treatment planning and that this surgeon work closely with the general surgeon, medical oncologist, and radiation therapist as well as the adjunctive treatment team members. the patient's clinical status and the type of local treatment will be significant determinants of the reconstructive options. for women with stage i breast cancer, these decisions may be based largely on the oncologist's local and adjunctive therapy procedures and the woman's desire to proceed or delay. for women with systemic disease, all members of the breast management team may need to agree on the advisability and timing of reconstruction. central to all of the numerous decisions described in this paper regarding the timing, type, and extent of breast reconstruction is the primary goal of the entire team: the best possible management of the breast cancer itself. the promise of attractive, symmetric, and natural appearing breasts, complete with a symmetric nipple-areolar complex, has eased somewhat the diminishment of self-esteem and the threat to femininity that can accompany the loss of a breast. by lowering fear, the widely recognized availability of breast reconstruction may encourage more women to monitor their breasts and seek diagnosis of changes and may influence selection of the type of local treatment if cancer is detected. because of the psychological and cultural significance of the breast, the reconstructive surgeon must be particularly sensitive to the psychological and aesthetic expectations of the patient. even in those patients with metastases and limited life expectancy, breast reconstruction can enhance the quality of life.
hepatocyte transplantation into the lung for treatment of acute hepatic failure in the rat. the lung was investigated as a matrix for transplanted hepatocytes in the rat model. surgically induced fulminant hepatic failure was successfully treated by injection of 5 to 7 x 10(7) isolated hepatocytes into the pulmonary parenchyma in 86% of the animals. no animal, however, survived injection of hepatocytes into the jugular vein. it was found that liver failure is a prerequisite for the intrapulmonary survival of hepatocytes. after regeneration of the native liver, the majority of hepatocytes are cleared away within 6 months.
recent changes in the treatment of aortoiliac occlusive disease by the oxford regional vascular service. over the four years from 1 january 1985 to 31 december 1988, 192 patients were treated for aortoiliac occlusive disease by the oxford regional vascular service. the number of patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty increased from two in the first year of the study to 34 in the third year of the study. this increase was accompanied by a decrease in the proportion of patients treated by aortobifemoral bypass but the proportion of patients treated by extra-anatomic bypass remained constant at around 30 per cent. twice as many patients were treated in the fourth year as in the first year of the study so that the number of surgical operations increased despite many patients being treated exclusively by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. the number of patients requiring mandatory treatment for limb salvage increased by 109 per cent and optional treatment for intermittent claudication by 85 per cent. the introduction of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in oxford has coincided with an increase in the number of patients presenting with symptomatic aortoiliac occlusive disease and has allowed twice as many people to be treated while the number of aortobifemoral bypass operations has remained unchanged. it is concluded that the introduction of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has not only generated its own workload but has also led to an increased demand for surgical reconstruction for aortoiliac occlusive disease.
rising incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastric cardia analyses of cancer incidence data from nine areas of the united states revealed steadily rising rates from 1976 to 1987 of adenocarcinomas of the esophagus and gastric cardia. the increases among men in this period ranged from 4% to 10% per year, and thus exceeded those of any other type of cancer. in contrast, there were relatively stable trends for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and slight declines for adenocarcinoma of more distal portions of the stomach. adenocarcinomas of the esophagus and gastric cardia disproportionately affected white men and rarely occurred among women. by the mid-1980s, among white men, adenocarcinomas accounted for about one third of all esophageal cancers, while cardia cancers accounted for about one half of all stomach cancers with specified subsites. the rising incidence rates and similar demographic patterns point to the need for investigation into the causes of these poorly understood cancers.
response of plasma endorphins, corticotropin, cortisol, and luteinizing hormone in the corticotropin-releasing hormone stimulation test in eumenorrheic and amenorrheic athletes. we compared pituitary response in the corticotropin-releasing hormone (crh) test between 9 eumenorrheic and 10 amenorrheic endurance athletes. the maximal oxygen capacity (vo2max), determined using an exercise test on a bicycle ergometer, was larger in amenorrheic (62.7 +/- 1.0 se ml/min per kg) than in eumenorrheic (54.7 +/- 2.3 ml/min per kg) athletes. a 100 micrograms bolus of human crh was administered intravenously, and blood samples were collected at -15, 0, 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes. the mean basal concentrations of endorphins, adrenocorticotropic hormone (acth), and cortisol did not show significant differences between the groups. the cumulative response of acth in the crh test was larger in eumenorrheic (7.7 +/- 1.3 pmol/l) than in amenorrheic (3.6 +/- 0.6 pmol/l) athletes, but the response of endorphins and cortisol did not differ between the groups. a negative correlation was found between the vo2max and the acth response during the crh test in the total group of athletes. these findings indicated changes in the function of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in amenorrheic athletes that can be attributed to intensive training.
is there a place for conservative surgery in the treatment of renal carcinoma? since 1981, 31 patients have undergone conservative surgery for malignant renal tumours and have been followed up for at least 2 years. the techniques included enucleation or resection (wedge resection or partial nephrectomy). in 10 patients the indications for kidney-sparing surgery were absolute, while in the remainder the conservative surgical approach was a deliberate choice. the tumours varied in diameter from 1.3 to 12 cm and no metastases were detected on pre-operative screening. one patient died post-operatively from myocardial infarction. in the remaining 30 there were no local recurrences. two patients died from skeletal metastases (1 with bilateral malignancy) and 2 underwent surgery in the post-operative period for haemorrhagic complications. the efficacy of conservative surgery in the local control of renal cancer is an argument in favour of its wider use.
obstructive sleep apnea presenting with nocturnal angina, heart failure, and near-miss sudden death. an obese woman with a one-year history of episodic nocturnal chest pain was admitted because of shock and pulmonary edema. a clinical diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock was made. she was ventilated and successfully resuscitated. subsequent investigations showed no evidence of cardiac dysfunction or coronary disease, but sleep study confirmed the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas). we suggest that the nocturnal angina and heart failure in this patient might have resulted from extreme hypoxemia produced by osas. this case raised the possibility that the high cardiovascular mortality rate reported in osas might not necessarily relate to underlying coronary artery disease. further investigations are required to delineate the true incidence of coronary disease in patients with osas.
omeprazole enhances the efficacy of pancreatin (pancrease) in cystic fibrosis. we studied the effect of the addition of omeprazole (20 mg once a day) to treatment with pancreatin (pancrease, cilag, herentals, belgium), two or four capsules three times a day, on fecal fat excretion in a double-blind, crossover fashion in nine patients with cystic fibrosis having persistent steatorrhea while taking pancrease, two capsules three times a day (mean fecal fat excretion, 22.3%; range, 12% to 44%). neither doubling of the dose of pancrease nor addition of omeprazole to the lower dose of pancrease significantly reduced fecal fat excretion (mean, 19.6% [range, 10% to 34%]; mean, 16.4% [range, 6% to 32%], respectively). however, addition of omeprazole to the higher dose of pancrease (four capsules three times a day) significantly reduced fecal fat excretion when compared with the two doses of pancrease alone (mean, 10.7%; range, 4% to 25%; p less than 0.01). we conclude that adjunct therapy with omeprazole reduces fecal fat excretion in cystic fibrosis provided that a high dose of pancrease is supplied.
spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult. we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult. immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention, epigastric tenderness, shock, and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture. the treatment is simple, but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid.
management of hemorrhagic complications from preoperative embolization of arteriovenous malformations. endovascular embolization procedures have undergone dramatic evolution and improvement in recent years. despite these advances, controversy remains regarding the optimal role of these procedures in treating cerebral arteriovenous malformations (avm's) and whether their purpose should be as a presurgical adjunct or as primary therapy. this controversy risks fragmentation between disciplines in the broader efforts to improve management of cerebrovascular disorders. the authors report seven cases of life-threatening hemorrhages that occurred during staged invasive therapy for avm's which illustrate the value of a unified team approach to optimize patient care. each patient underwent at least one embolization procedure using polyvinyl alcohol particles, followed in two cases by the occlusion of proximal feeding vessels by platinum microcoils and in one case by the attempted detachment of an endovascular balloon. in three patients, catheter penetration into the subarachnoid space resulted in subarachnoid hemorrhage. one patient suffered rupture of a large feeding vessel during balloon inflation. the final three patients sustained intracranial hemorrhage 2 hours, 8 hours, and 5 days, respectively, following embolization. all but two patients underwent emergency craniotomy at the time of the complication. these cases underscore the advantages of interdisciplinary management optimizing decision-making and providing expeditious care when life-threatening complications develop.
congenital myasthenia associated with facial malformations in iraqi and iranian jews. a new genetic syndrome. fourteen jewish patients from 10 families of either iraqi or iranian origin with congenital myasthenia had associated facial malformations which included an elongated face, mandibular prognathism with class iii malocclusion and a high-arched palate. other common features were muscle weakness restricted predominantly to ptosis, weakness of facial and masticatory muscles, and fatigable speech; mild and nonprogressive course; response to cholinesterase inhibitors; absence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor; decremental response on repetitive stimulation at 3 hz but no repetitive compound muscle action potential in response to a single nerve stimulus. this newly recognized form of congenital myasthenia with distinctive ethnic clustering and associated facial malformations is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder. the facial abnormalities may be secondary to the neuromuscular defect or may be primary and unrelated. further studies are needed to elucidate the defect in neuromuscular transmission responsible for the pathogenesis of this syndrome.
drug therapy for ventricular tachyarrhythmias: how many electropharmacologic trials are appropriate? to determine how many electropharmacologic drug trials should be performed to select therapy for patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias, the outcome of 150 consecutive patients with inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmias undergoing serial electropharmacologic testing was examined. the probability of identifying predicted effective therapy (inductive of fewer than five ventricular responses with three ventricular extrastimuli at three pacing cycle lengths) and the probability of that therapy preventing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia recurrences were determined as a function of the number of preceding trials. the probability ( +/- se) of identifying predicted effective therapy by the first trial (0.23 +/- 0.03) was significantly higher than that of the second (0.09 +/- 0.04), third (0.08 +/- 0.04) and fourth (0.05 +/- 0.04) trials (p = 0.001). no patient had predicted effective therapy identified by subsequent trials. the 2 year actuarial probability of freedom from sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias on predicted effective therapy was higher for the first (0.79 +/- 0.08), second (0.73 +/- 0.13) and third (0.86 +/- 0.13) trials than for the fourth (0.33 +/- 0.27) trial (p = 0.02). thus, the probability of selecting therapy with long-term efficacy was highest for the first trial (0.18), intermediate for the second (0.07) and third (0.07) trials and lowest for the fourth (0.02) and subsequent (0.00) trials. accordingly, the electropharmacologic approach to therapy selection should be abandoned after three unsuccessful trials.
the influence of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus on immediate and 3-month morbidity and mortality after acute stroke. fasting serum glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fructosamine concentrations were determined in 304 consecutive subjects admitted with acute stroke, within 48 hours of ictus. based on the medical history and these results, subjects were divided into known diabetics, newly diagnosed diabetics, subjects with stress hyperglycemia, and nondiabetics. the type of stroke was classified as lacunar infarct, cerebral infarct, or intracerebral hemorrhage, based on clinical examination by a neurologist and computed tomographic brain scan and/or autopsy. immediate and 3-month outcomes were examined in relation to (1) fasting glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fructosamine levels by stroke subtypes, and (2) glucose tolerance categories by stroke subtypes. a high fasting glucose level was associated with an increased mortality, but this was observed only among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. patients with stress hyperglycemia, but not diabetics, had increased mortality. in spite of having similar glucose concentrations to those patients with stress hyperglycemia, diabetics did not have a worse outcome compared with nondiabetics. it is concluded that the association between glucose concentration and outcome is a reflection of stress relating to stroke severity, rather than a direct harmful effect of glucose on damaged neurons.
transcatheter treatment of splenic artery aneurysms (saa). report of two cases. splenic artery embolization with steel coils was performed in two patients who both had large splenic artery aneurysms and hepatic cirrhosis complicated by hypersplenism. a good clinical effect was noticed after the procedure. it was concluded that this treatment is safe and effective and decreases the risk of splenic artery rupture. it also corrects hypersplenism. transcatheter embolization appears to be a preferable alternative to surgery in such cases.
the abdominal trauma index--a critical reassessment and validation. the abdominal trauma index (ati) was devised to quantify the risk of complications following abdominal trauma. with scores greater than 25, the risk of postoperative complications became exponential. the purpose of the present study was to determine if: 1) the organ risk factors previously assigned were more statistically valid; and 2) the addition of physiologic variables would enhance the prediction of postinjury intra-abdominal sepsis. fifteen abdominal organ systems and 17 physiologic variables in 300 consecutive patients were analyzed to determine ability to predict intraabdominal sepsis. there were no significant differences in predictive ability between the old and new organ risk factors. the addition of physiologic factors did not enhance the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis. this clinical study demonstrates that: 1) the risk of intra-abdominal sepsis increases with increasing ati score; 2) the previous (1979-initial) organ risk grading concept is statistically valid; 3) six of the 15 organ systems warrant a change in their relative rank order (1989-revision); 4) the addition of demographic, physiologic, and immunologic variables did not significantly improve the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis.
infarction in the territory of the medial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. we report 10 cases of cerebellar infarction in the territory of the medial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (mpica). axial sections on mri through the middle of the medulla and the cerebellum showed the infarction as a triangular area with a dorsal base and a ventral apex directed towards the fourth ventricle. the infarct also involved the lateral and dorsal medulla when the mpica supplied all or part of these regions. three clinical patterns were observed: 1) pseudolabyrinthine signs with or without dysmetria and ataxia when the medulla was spared; marked axial lateropulsion was present in most cases; 2) complete or incomplete wallenberg's syndrome, when the medulla was involved; 3) silent infarction. these syndromes are precisely those previously attributed to pica occlusion without distinction of the branch involved. no alteration of consciousness was recorded and spontaneous recovery was the rule. cerebellar infarction in the distribution of the mpica can be regarded as a benign condition with a good prognosis.
late deaths after treatment for childhood cancer. an investigation of 749 deaths occurring among 4082 patients surviving at least five years after the diagnosis of childhood cancer in britain before 1971 has been undertaken. of the 738 with sufficient information the numbers of deaths attributable to the following causes were: recurrent tumour, 550 (74%), a second primary tumour, 61 (8%), a medical condition related to treatment of the tumour, 49 (7%), an traumatic death unrelated to the tumour or its treatment, 34 (5%), finally, any other cause unrelated to the tumour or its treatment, 44 (6%). less than 10% of five year survivors of non-hodgkin lymphomas, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, wilms' tumour, or a soft tissue sarcoma died of recurrent tumour during the next 15 years, while more than 25% of five year survivors of hodgkin's disease, ependymoma, medulloblastoma, and ewing's tumour died of recurrent tumour during the corresponding period. almost 50% of five year survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia died of recurrent disease during the corresponding 15 years, a large proportion of deaths being due to central nervous system relapse in an era before central nervous system prophylaxis was routinely given. comparison of the mortality observed with that expected from mortality rates in the general population indicated three times the expected number of deaths from non-neoplastic causes. five times the expected number of deaths from cardiovascular causes were observed, these were predominantly myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents. there was no evidence of an excess in the number of suicides observed, but there were three times the expected number of deaths from accidents observed after central nervous system tumours.
protective effect of increased glycolytic substrate against systolic and diastolic dysfunction and increased coronary resistance from prolonged global underperfusion and reperfusion in isolated rabbit hearts perfused with erythrocyte suspensions. current therapy of myocardial infarction may include early reperfusion. we simulated myocardial perfusion conditions during evolving myocardial infarction in isolated, normothermic, isovolumic rabbit hearts perfused with buffer containing bovine red blood cells (hematocrit of 40%), and we assessed the effects of high levels of glucose and insulin as "therapy" during prolonged (150-minute) severe underperfusion and reperfusion. protocol 1 consisted of underperfusion at a constant coronary perfusion pressure of 8 mm hg. the control group (n = 8) received 5.5 mmol/l glucose and 15 microunits/ml insulin; the group treated with high levels of glucose and insulin (g + i) (n = 8) received 19.5 mmol/l glucose and 250 microunits/ml insulin during both underperfusion and reperfusion. relative to the control group, the g + i group experienced 1) greater developed pressure during underperfusion and increased recovery during reperfusion, 2) preserved diastolic function during underperfusion and reperfusion, 3) lower coronary resistance and greater coronary flow during the underperfusion period, 4) increased glycolytic flux and preserved glycogen stores and high energy phosphate levels, and 5) less loss of myocyte enzymes (creatine kinase and alanine aminotransferase). in protocol 2, coronary flow was kept identical in control (n = 8) and g + i hearts (n = 8) during the underperfusion period, and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was kept below 10 mm hg in both groups to minimize subendocardial damage and vascular compression. in this protocol, the effect of the g + i intervention in the prevention of an increase in coronary resistance during the underperfusion period was distinguished from its myocellular metabolic effects; the high g + i substrate had protective effects on mechanical and metabolic function that were less marked than, but similar to, those in protocol 1, indicating that its mechanisms of protection during underperfusion affected both cardiac function and coronary resistance. we conclude that the g + i intervention, in clinically relevant concentrations, markedly protected severely underperfused myocardium for 150 minutes and may be a beneficial intervention in combination with reperfusion therapy in acute myocardial infarction.
studies on autoimmunity for initiation of beta-cell destruction. vii. evidence for antigenic changes on beta-cells leading to autoimmune destruction of beta-cells in bb rats. the diabetic syndrome in biobreeding (bb) rats is believed to result from the destruction of beta-cells by autoimmune responses. however, the initial events that cause the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells remain largely unknown. this investigation was initiated to see whether there are any antigenic changes on the beta-cells from neonatal to adult bb rats that may lead to the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells. pancreatic grafts from neonatal bb rats remained largely intact without insulitis when transplanted into the renal subcapsular space of acutely diabetic bb rats. similarly transplanted islet grafts from neonatal bb rats were also not subject to autoimmune destruction. in contrast, islet grafts obtained from adult bb rats, which had been treated with silica to prevent insulitis, were rapidly destroyed in diabetic recipients. these results indicate that beta-cells from neonatal bb rats are different from beta-cells from adult bb rats, at least regarding their recognition by immunologic effectors. considering our observations and previous information on the initial role of macrophages/dendritic cells in the development of insulitis in bb rats, we suggest that beta-cell-specific antigenic changes that precede insulitis may result in the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells in bb rats.
pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis. presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. a 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever, hyponatremia, and mononeuritis multiplex. inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established. the absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy. autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature. an early diagnosis of mae in the setting of fever and siadh may be possible via transbronchial biopsy.
optimal interpretation of the supine exercise electrocardiogram in patients with right bundle branch block. a detailed analysis of the exercise ecg was performed in 82 patients with right bundle branch block who underwent supine exercise equilibrium radionuclide angiography. the sensitivity and specificity of each individual electrocardiographic lead for the detection of a positive radionuclide angiogram was determined. leads v5 and v6 had a sensitivity of 58 percent and a specificity of 89 percent. the limb leads and lead v4 had a lower sensitivity, but an equivalent specificity. leads v1 and v3 each had a clearly lower specificity that ranged from 56 to 67 percent. receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that the optimal interpretation of the exercise ecg included the limb leads and v4 to v6, but not v1 to v3. the results of coronary angiography in the subset of 16 patients who underwent this procedure confirmed these findings.
endocapsular hematoma. description and treatment of a unique form of postoperative hemorrhage. endocapsular hematoma, to our knowledge, is a previously unreported type of postoperative hemorrhage. in this condition, blood collects in the narrow space between the anterior surface of the posterior capsule and the posterior optic surface of a posterior chamber intraocular lens. endocapsular hematoma differs from anterior chamber hyphema in several ways: the location of the blood is in the endocapsular space, a small amount of endocapsular blood can cause visually disabling symptoms, the blood in the endocapsular space often fails to reabsorb, and neodymium-yag laser capsulotomy can be used to drain the endocapsular blood into the vitreous cavity. we present six cases of endocapsular hematoma. neodymium-yag laser capsulotomy was successfully used to drain the endocapsular hematoma in three of these cases.
treatment of renal colic by prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors and avafortan (analgesic antispasmodic). in a study of the pain-relieving effect of 3 drugs commonly used to treat acute renal colic in this hospital, intravenous indomethacin and intramuscular diclofenac (prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors) were compared with intravenous avafortan (analgesic antispasmodic). as first-line analgesics, prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors, if given intravenously, offer an effective alternative to avafortan. of 145 patients studied, 32 required a second injection for complete relief of pain. administering a second dose of prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors resulted in equally significant pain relief rate even though the route was intramuscular.
soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck in adults. we reviewed the clinical records and pathologic material of 176 adults with primary soft tissue sarcomas treated at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center between 1950 and 1985. seventy-two patients (41%) had low-grade sarcomas and 104 (59%) had high-grade sarcomas. all but 18 patients underwent some form of excision as initial therapy. adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy combined with surgical excision showed no significant effect. a significantly increased risk of treatment failure was associated with large tumor size, positive surgical margins, bone involvement, local recurrence, metastatic spread, and high histologic grade. except for recurrence, the p value by univariate analysis in the log-rank test for comparison of survival according to these clinical and pathologic characteristics was p less than 0.0001. although the overall survival was 75% at 2 years, 55% at 5 years, and 46% at 10 years, only 20% of the patients with high-grade sarcomas were alive 10 years after treatment. most patients with rhabdomyosarcoma, high-grade peripheral nerve tumor, and high-grade fibrous histiocytoma and all patients with high-grade angiosarcoma died of disease less than 5 years after diagnosis. new therapeutic strategies are needed to improve the survival of adult patients with high-grade soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck.
the relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia. a statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus. a review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies. a significant predominance of men, with mean age at onset of 50 years, was observed. pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms, whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms. lymphoreticular malignancies, especially kaposi's sarcoma, are most frequently observed. the majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection. the majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus. in some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated. overall, 37 of the 60 patients, or 61%, had a neoplasm of the immune system.
colonic stenoses: use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies. forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations, without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction, were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session. all patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination. the authors describe the technique, as well as the clinical and radiologic findings, that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon. in all patients, oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes, with no complications. in seven patients, there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel, and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients. if a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon, additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium. this practice is safe if precise criteria are applied.
education and epilepsy: assessment and remediation. learning difficulties in children with epilepsy may be caused by brain damage and should be investigated. in many cases, however, seizures and/or electroencephalographic (eeg) findings are the only signs of pathology. frequency and type of seizures may be determining factors that should, if necessary, be evaluated by long-term eeg monitoring, preferably during school performance or in conjunction with neuropsychological assessment. this may prove that subclinical epileptiform discharges in the eeg can adversely affect the child's performance. secondary psychological problems in epilepsy patients, combined with side effects of antiepileptic drugs, may cause or heighten learning problems. prophylactic control of seizures with one appropriate drug may alleviate learning problems. computerized neuropsychological testing with simultaneous eeg recording may reveal the influence of epileptiform discharges on cognitive function and also help to evaluate the effects of antiepileptic drugs. objective assessment of subclinical epileptiform activity makes it easier to treat the pathology identified by the eeg with optimal dosage of the most appropriate drug. a balance is required because epileptiform discharges and even occasional seizures may be less disabling than side effects from large doses of several drugs. information to the school and the parents concerning the patient's abilities and limitations may be as important as seizure control. specialized teaching should be started early, when necessary, with the patient integrated into a normal school if possible. however, good functioning in a special school is preferable to marginal functioning in a normal school.
effect of cyclosporin on generalized shwartzman reaction in diabetic rats. the effect of cyclosporin (csa) on the endotoxin-induced generalized shwartzman reaction (gsr) was studied in diabetic and nondiabetic rats. after 4.5 wk of diabetes, csa (20 mg/kg) or intralipid as a control substance was given intraperitoneally daily for 10 days. next, diabetic rats were given either high-dose (2 mg/kg or low-dose (0.1 mg/kg) endotoxin (escherichia coli 026:b6 lipopolysaccharide b) as a single injection. the rats were killed at intervals of 1, 4, 8, and 24 h. no significant glomerular thrombi were seen in the nondiabetic control animals, whereas the severity of glomerular thrombi in the diabetic animals was dependent on the presence or absence of csa, endotoxin dose, and degree of glycemic control. in the diabetic rats, glomerular thrombi occurred maximally at 4 h but were no longer present at 24 h. the csa/high-dose-endotoxin rats had fewer glomerular thrombi than rats receiving the intralipid/high-dose endotoxin, but this difference was not statistically significant. the csa/low-dose-endotoxin rats had increased glomerular thrombi compared with the intralipid/low-dose-endotoxin rats (p less than 0.01). insulin treatment reduced the glomerular capillary thrombi in the csa/low-dose-endotoxin diabetic animals. thus, csa aggravates the gsr with low-dose endotoxin but has no significant effect when high-dose endotoxin is given. improved glycemic control reduces the gsr in csa-treated rats. thus, the interrelationships of diabetes, endotoxin, and csa on the gsr are complex, and the pathogenesis of these events is unclear.
the robustness of an empirically derived taxonomy of chronic pain patients. there is currently no classification system for chronic pain patients that has achieved consensus. the lack of a classification that is used consistently across settings has impaired advance of knowledge and treatment of chronic pain patients. recently, an empirically derived multivariate classification system, the multiaxial assessment of pain (map) patients, has been developed. in this paper, the generalizability of the map system was evaluated by contrasting the map classification of 3 common but diverse chronic pain syndromes, namely, low back pain, headache, and temporomandibular disorders. the results indicate that although the proportion of patients classified into the 3 subgroups of the map taxonomy differ, the profiles based on the pattern of interrelationship among the assessment scales were remarkably similar. these data suggest that the psychosocial and behavioral responses associated with chronic pain are common to diverse samples of pain patients despite differences in demographic characteristics and medical diagnosis. the implications of these results for research and clinical practice are discussed. the potential utility of a polydiagnostic approach using more traditional medically based classifications such as proposed by the iasp (merskey, h., pain, suppl. 3 (1986) s1-s225) complemented by classification based on the map psychosocial-behaviorally based taxonomy are examined.
how bad are the symptoms and bowel dysfunction of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome? a prospective, controlled study with emphasis on stool form. since it is not known whether the symptoms and bowel function of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome are truly abnormal we used diaries and frequent telephone interviews over a 31 day period to assess symptoms, defecation, and stool types in 26 unselected female hospital patients with the irritable bowel syndrome, 27 women who admitted to recurrent colonic pain but had not consulted a doctor (non-complainers), and 27 healthy control subjects. unexpectedly, abdominal pain and bloating occurred in most of the control subjects. pain, however, was six times more frequent in the patients and was more often considered severe. bloating occurred three times more often. defecation was more frequent, more erratic in timing and stool form, and more likely to produce stools of extreme forms, indicating rapid fluctuations in intestinal transit time. urgency was four times more prevalent in patients than control subjects. straining to finish defecating was nine times more prevalent and was often accompanied by feelings of incomplete evacuation--a combination which could lead to the misdiagnosis of constipation. the normal relation between stool form and the above symptoms was distorted, possibly due to rectal irritability. non-complainers were intermediate between patients and control subjects in almost every parameter but were closer to control subjects than to patients. patients with the irritable bowel syndrome have real cause for complaint and their bowel function is truly abnormal.
delayed chest wall pain due to sternal wire sutures. this report describes 18 patients with disabling chest wall pain due to one or more sternal wire sutures. the pain occurred from 2 to 84 months after a median sternotomy. the pain was described either as sharp and stabbing or as a deep-seated ache. the involved wires had an exaggerated fibrous tissue reaction surrounding the twisted portion. the adjacent noninvolved wires had minimal reaction. in the last 7 patients, serial sections of the fibrous tissue revealed entrapment of one or more sensory nerve fibers. in 6 of the 7 electrical potentials were measured and found to be elevated, indicating wire damage during twisting. ferroxyl tests confirmed the collection of iron ions at this anodic point as a result of corrosion. removal of the involved wires and the fibrous tissue surrounding this anodic point relieved the symptoms of pain and tenderness resulting from entrapped sensory nerves.
symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients: the role of fluid cytology. clinical and cytologic findings in 21 breast cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion are presented. the etiology of the pericardial effusion was definitely malignant, by cytology/histology in 13 patients (62%), and suspected malignant by cytology in 2 patients (9%). one patient (5%) with definitely nonmalignant pericardial effusion by cytology was found to be histologically positive at autopsy. in 5 patients (24%) there was no histological/cytological evidence of malignancy; radiation pericarditis could be the etiology in 4 of these 5 patients. the median time from the diagnosis of breast cancer to the development of symptomatic pericardial effusion was 60 months (range: 1-219 months). ten patients developed cardiac tamponade; they were treated by either pericardiocentesis or pericardiectomy. the mean survival of patients with negative cytology/histology was 12 months; patients with suspicious cytology had a mean survival of 9 months; patients with malignant effusion, treated by pericardiectomy, had a mean survival of 22.3 months, while patients with malignant pericardial effusion, who were not subjected to surgery, had a mean survival of 4.7 months, only. it is concluded that the etiology of symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients is not always malignant, which emphasizes the role of fluid cytology in establishing definite diagnosis. the survival probability is a function of the extent of extracardiac disease; among patients with malignant pericardial effusion those selected for pericardiectomy have a longer than average survival.
developmental regulation of granulocytic cell binding to hemonectin. hemonectin (hn), a component of the bone marrow (bm) extracellular matrix which promotes adhesion of cells in the granulocytic lineage, was purified to near homogeneity and tested for its ability to mediate attachment of normal and leukemic cells of granulocytic lineage. purified hn immobilized on plastic substrates promoted serum-free attachment of normal granulocyte/macrophage progenitor cells (cfc-gm), using an in situ attachment assay in which cell attachment is inhibited by specific polyclonal antisera. when unfractionated bm cells were allowed to attach to purified hn and stained in situ, hn preferentially bound cells at earlier stages of granulocytic differentiation. these observations were confirmed using cells of the hl-60 progranulocytic cell line which mirrored this differentiation-stage specific binding to hn. hn promoted attachment of 60% of uninduced hl-60 cells which were arrested at the progranulocyte stage, whereas only 15% of uninduced hl-60 cells attached to uncoated plastic and 4% to attached plastic coated with equal microgram quantities of bovine serum albumin (bsa). when hl-60 cells were induced to differentiate along the granulocytic pathway by incubation with dimethylsulfoxide (dmso), attachment to hemonectin was reduced. thus, both primary bm granulocytic cells and a granulocytic cell line show preferential attachment of those cells at earlier stages of differentiation. this developmentally regulated binding suggests a mechanism for release of maturing bm into the peripheral circulation.
an operative complication in a patient with a true posterior communicating artery aneurysm: case report and review of the literature. intraoperative oculomotor nerve injury in a patient with a true posterior communicating artery aneurysm is reported in detail. a comparison of internal carotid artery aneurysms at the posterior communicating artery junction with true posterior communicating artery aneurysms deserves special attention, because the vascular relationships of the aneurysm are more complex. a clip along the internal carotid artery does not occlude blood flow to the aneurysm, and the aneurysmal neck and the distal posterior communicating artery are closer to the oculomotor nerve. this is the 27th reported case of a true posterior communicating artery aneurysm. the incidence of true posterior communicating artery aneurysms ranges from 0.1 to 2.8% of all aneurysm patients. such aneurysms constitute 4.6 and 11% of so-called posterior communicating aneurysms in two series. difficulty associated with a preoperative diagnosis has been documented in at least 4 cases. an awareness of this rare aneurysm is stressed in order to avoid operative complications.
parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation for peptic duodenal stricture. gastric outlet obstruction due to peptic duodenal stricture (pyloric stenosis) was treated with parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation of the stricture in 32 patients. follow-up is in the range of 5 years in 37.4% of the patients, while 6 to 10 years follow-up is available in 62.4% of the patients. at their last follow-up, 74.9% of the patients were in either visick 1 or 2 clinical status. recurrence rates have been 3.1% at 1 year, 9.3% at 5 years, and 21.8% after 6 to 10 years follow-up. there has been only one instance (3.1%) of restenosis. two patients required reoperation because of recurrence and one of them died.
pregnancy outcome after inadvertent ivermectin treatment during community-based distribution. ivermectin is the drug of choice for community-based treatment of onchocerciasis. since pregnancy testing during mass distribution campaigns is not feasible, the safety of ivermectin in pregnancy must be established. during a 3-year study, ivermectin was distributed to the population of a rubber plantation (14,000 people) in liberia. only 31% of women were aware of their pregnancy status during the first month; it was calculated that about half of women in the first trimester of pregnancy are likely to be treated inadvertently. 203 children born to women inadvertently treated during pregnancy were identified. in this limited sample, there was no significant difference in birth defects between treated and untreated mothers in the same population or compared with a reference population. children of treated and untreated mothers showed no difference in developmental status or disease patterns. further surveillance is necessary; however, since no major effects of ivermectin on pregnancy outcome were detected, there seems no need to change existing strategies of ivermectin distribution.
ultrastructural changes in impotent penile tissue: a comparison of 65 patients. to determine whether impotence is caused by specific and consistent changes in erectile tissue, we compared the ultrastructure of the corpora cavernosa in 6 controls with that in 59 patients undergoing implantation of a penile prosthesis. the impotent patients were divided into groups based on a medical history of hypertension (10), pelvic surgery (9), alcoholic smokers (8), hypertensive alcoholics (3), hypertensive alcoholic smokers (3), smokers (3), diabetics (8), diabetic smokers (3), peyronie's disease (3), spinal cord injury (3) and isolated causes (6). our data demonstrate that different behavioral and/or medical conditions produce similar degenerative tissue responses. there is no single or specific cause of impotence that is manifest by consistent changes in erectile tissue.
the cholecystokinin receptor antagonist devazepide enhances morphine-induced analgesia but not morphine-induced respiratory depression in the squirrel monkey. the effects of the cholecystokinin antagonist devazepide on analgesia and respiratory depression induced by morphine in squirrel monkeys were examined. pain thresholds were determined using the tail withdrawal procedure, in which monkeys restrained in chairs kept their tails in cool (35 degrees c) water for at least 20 sec, but withdrew them from warm (55 degrees c) water in less than 4 sec. morphine produced a dose-related increase in tail withdrawal latencies from warm water. devazepide (injected i.p. or p.o.) had no effect on tail withdrawal latencies when given alone but enhanced the analgesic effects of morphine. the devazepide dose-response curve for morphine enhancement was bell-shaped with doses of 3, 10, 30 and 100 micrograms/kg injected i.p. increasing morphine analgesia whereas higher and lower dose did not. in a separate group of monkeys, morphine produced dose-dependent decreases in respiratory rate and oxygen tension and increases in carbon dioxide tension. in contrast to its effects on morphine analgesia, devazepide had no effect on the various indices of morphine-induced respiratory depression. these data suggest that devazepide may have therapeutic utility as an adjuvant to morphine analgesia allowing lower dose of the opiate to be used to relieve pain and reducing the risk of opiate-induced respiratory depression.
comprehensive management of acute necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess. achieving reduced mortality rates in patients with necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess is possible by employing a comprehensive management plan. components of the plan include (1) rapid evaluation and assessment of the degree of physiologic and anatomic derangement, the latter by the prompt use of vascular enhanced computed tomographic scan; (2) adequate fluid resuscitation determined by early institution of advanced hemodynamic monitoring; (3) attempts to identify and document septic foci via computed tomography-guided percutaneous aspiration; and (4) aggressive surgical debridement. close adherence to these policies allowed us to keep mortality in this seriously ill group of patients to 14%. most deaths occurred in patients who were referred to this service late in the course of their disease. the acute physiology and chronic health enquiry (apache) ii severity of illness index applied at the time of admission proved an accurate predictor of mortality. a score of 25 or greater was highly predictive of death, and a lesser score, of survival.
thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax using carbon dioxide laser. in an effort to improve the success rate of the previously described thoracoscopic electrocautery ablation technique of spontaneous pneumothorax, the carbon dioxide laser was evaluated in 12 patients. the recurrent (5 patients) or persistent (7 patients) spontaneous pneumothoraces were caused by rupture of (1) blebs in 6 patients, (2) intrapulmonary apical type ii bullae in 3 patients, and (3) diffuse bullous emphysema, type iii, in 3. the air leaks were successfully sealed in all but 1 patient with ruptured type ii bulla. surgical specimen from this single failure suggested that the entire inner lining of the bullae must be thermocoagulated. this technical modification led to successful outcome in 2 subsequent cases. with the use of carbon dioxide laser, it was possible to treat not only small blebs but all types of bullae causing spontaneous pneumothorax. laser thoracoscopy is effective and safe in treating spontaneous pneumothorax.
early solid feeding and recurrent childhood eczema: a 10-year longitudinal study. the relationship between early solid feeding practices and risks of recurrent or chronic eczema in childhood was examined in a birth cohort of new zealand children studied to the age of 10. by the age of 10 years, 7.5% of children had chronic or recurrent eczema. there were clear and consistent associations between the diversity of the child's diet during the first 4 months and risks of eczema. even when due allowance was made for a range of confounding factors--including parental atopic illness, atopic illness in siblings, the child's early milk diet, and family social background--children exposed to four or more different types of solid food before 4 months had risks of recurrent or chronic eczema that were 2.9 times those of children who were not exposed to early solid feeding. it is concluded that early exposure to a diet diverse in potential food antigens may act to predispose susceptible children to recurrent or chronic childhood eczema.
dental extraction for patients on oral anticoagulant therapy. dental extraction in patients receiving long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is a controversial issue. continuation of anticoagulation exposes the patient to serious hemorrhage, whereas cessation of therapy increases the risk of thromboembolism. forty patients treated by coumarin underwent 63 tooth extractions, without a change in the therapeutic protocol of anticoagulation. the biologic adhesive beriplast was used successfully to achieve local hemostasis at the site of the surgical wound. apart from one patient who had mild oozing, there were no incidences of postsurgical hemorrhage.
failure of surgery to improve outcome in hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage. a prospective randomized trial. hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage remains a major cause of hemorrhagic stroke carrying extremely high morbidity. considerable controversy remains regarding the optimal form of therapy. between 1983 and 1989 we conducted a prospective randomized trial with three treatment strategies: best medical management, best medical management plus intracranial pressure monitoring, and surgical evacuation. only patients with significant deficit harboring a putaminal hematoma at least 3.0 cm in diameter were entered. the study was interrupted after 21 patients had been studied (9, best medical management; 4, intracranial pressure monitoring; and 8, surgical evacuation). no differences were found among groups for age, admission blood pressure, and time interval between onset of symptoms and arrival at hospital. none of the subjects were capable of returning to prestroke activity. fifteen (71%) died or remained vegetative at 6 months, and only 4 (19%) were capable of independent life at home. of the 9 patients in the best medical management arm, 7 were dead or vegetative. in the surgical group, 4 patients died and only 2 were capable of independent life. these results suggest that current medical and neurosurgical therapies remain ineffective in preventing the devastating neurologic consequences of hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage.
pelvic pain and infections. infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems. in the evaluation of the acute pain, it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly. in recent years, laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections, as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers. the evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved. laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain. all therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain. such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient.
is gastric acid responsible for the pain in patients with essential dyspepsia? the pathogenesis of symptoms in patients with essential dyspepsia is not known. since treatment with h2-receptor antagonists has provided symptomatic relief in some reports, we carried out the present study to investigate whether gastric acid is responsible for symptoms in these patients. fifty patients with essential dyspepsia and 25 healthy control subjects were studied. after an overnight fast, a nasogastric tube was passed and its tip positioned in the antrum under fluoroscopic control. normal saline or 0.1 m hydrochloric acid was infused in a randomized, double-blind fashion. eleven (22%) patients developed pain with acid infusion, but none with normal saline (p less than 0.005). in 10 of these 11 patients, pain recurred on rechallenge with acid infusion but was promptly relieved with infusion of 1 m sodium bicarbonate. none of the healthy controls developed pain on infusion of acid or saline. these observations suggest that acid has a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptoms in some patients with essential dyspepsia, although other factors may also be important.
yersinia enterocolitica o:3: an emerging cause of pediatric gastroenteritis in the united states. the yersinia enterocolitica collaborative study group. after an outbreak of yersinia enterocolitica infections among black children in atlanta, a seven-hospital study was conducted to determine the importance of this pathogen in other communities with large black populations. of 4841 stool specimens from patients with gastroenteritis examined between november 1989 and january 1990, y. enterocolitica, shigella, campylobacter, and salmonella were identified in 38, 49, 60, and 98 specimens, respectively; 34 (92%) of 37 y. enterocolitica isolates were serotype o:3. of the 38 patients with yersiniosis, 37 (97%) were children. illnesses were clustered around the holidays, and 20 (62%) of 32 patients had been exposed to raw pork intestines in the 2 weeks before onset. exposure was significantly associated with illness in a case-control study of eight patients identified at one hospital (p = .004). infants less than or equal to 6 months old with yersiniosis were more likely to have immature-to-total neutrophil ratios greater than 0.50 than were infants of comparable age with salmonellosis (p = .02). infrequently isolated in the past, y. enterocolitica o:3 is emerging as an important enteric pathogen in this country, particularly among black children.
a prospective study of the incidence and natural history of femoral vascular complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. over a 14-month period patients undergoing 144 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures were evaluated for the presence of complications at the femoral puncture site. after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty each patient was examined by a surgeon, and then a color-flow duplex scan of the groin was obtained. on the initial scan eight pseudoaneurysms, three arteriovenous fistulas, one combined arteriovenous fistula-pseudoaneurysm, and one thrombosed superficial femoral artery were detected for a major vascular complication rate of 9%. pseudoaneurysm formation was associated with the use of heparin after removal of the arterial sheath. seven pseudoaneurysms (initial extravascular cavity size range 1.3 to 3.5 cm) were followed with weekly duplex scans, and all thrombosed spontaneously within 4 weeks of detection. the three patients with isolated arteriovenous fistulas were each followed for at least 8 weeks, and the arteriovenous fistulas persisted. early surgical intervention for postcatheterization femoral pseudoaneurysms is usually unnecessary as thrombosis often occurs spontaneously. we would advocate an operative approach for pseudoaneurysms that are symptomatic, expanding, or associated with large hematomas. iatrogenic femoral arteriovenous fistulas should be considered for elective repair, but this may be delayed for several weeks without adverse sequelae.
effect of hyperkalemia on experimental myocardial depression by verapamil. three patients with systemic hypotension and sinus bradycardia that were initially refractory to conventional therapy responded well to intravenous calcium administration. two-dimensional echocardiography revealed immediate reversal of severe left ventricular dysfunction after intravenous administration of calcium in two instances. common factors were hyperkalemia and verapamil therapy. this interaction was examined further by evaluation of contractility, heart rate, and arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs. controls (n = 9) received saline infusion, and a second group (n = 10) received saturated potassium chloride (approximately 0.2 ml/min intravenously). in control dogs, administration of verapamil (1195 +/- 181 micrograms/kg intravenously) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 113 +/- 7 mm hg to 74 +/- 5 mm hg, and heart rate from 147 +/- 9 beats/min to 86 +/- 11 beats/min. potassium chloride infusion alone increased blood [k+] from 3.4 +/- 0.1 to 6.2 +/- 0.2 meq/l, but was without hemodynamic effects. in hyperkalemic dogs, a significantly lower dose of verapamil (428 +/- 42 micrograms/kg intravenously) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 102 +/- 8 mm hg to 36 +/- 4 mm hg, and heart rate from 150 +/- 5 beats/min to 104 +/- 15 beats/min. myocardial contractile function was examined with right ventricular isometric contractile force and left ventricular segment length changes. in normokalemic and hyperkalemic groups, contractility was decreased by verapamil. effects of verapamil on arterial pressure and contractility could be reversed significantly by administration of calcium, 0.4 meq/kg intravenously. the present results support the theory that the negative hemodynamic effects of verapamil may be exaggerated to a harmful degree by concomitant hyperkalemia. these adverse events may be reversed by calcium administration.
infantile systemic hyalinosis: newly recognized disorder of collagen? four infants with stiff skin and painful joint contractures in the first few months of life are described. other features included small papules, particularly on the face and trunk, perianal nodules, hyperpigmentation over the metacarpophalangeal joints and over the malleoli, gingival hyperplasia, persistent diarrhea, and failure to thrive. two of these infants died before the age of 18 months. in each case hyaline material was found in the papillary dermis. ultrastructurally, there was a distinctive fibrillogranular appearance in which a banding pattern could be observed. this material was also found within membrane-bound vacuoles in macrophages and fibroblasts. it had an appearance and localization identical with that of collagen type vi. these features are similar to those reported in juvenile hyaline fibromatosis. it is believed that these infants have a closely related, but nonetheless distinctive, inherited disorder of collagen.
morphological changes and smooth muscle cell proliferation after experimental excimer laser treatment. background. little is known about the mechanism(s) in the development of restenosis after excimer laser angioplasty. thus, the rationale of this study was to determine the time course of intimal and medial smooth muscle cell (smc) proliferation and histomorphological changes after experimental excimer laser treatment. methods and results. laser ablation was performed in the right carotid artery of 34 new zealand white rabbits after development of a fibromuscular plaque by repeated weak electrical stimulations. the vessels were excised 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 42 days after excimer laser treatment. staining of alpha-actin was used to identify smcs. in five rabbits (15%), a stenosis of more than 50% of luminal area was due to intimal proliferation of smcs, and in four other rabbits, a total occlusion was due to organized thrombi. after the initial ablation of the performed plaque (13 +/- 6 intimal smc layers) a continuous increase of intimal wall thickness was found from 7 +/- 6 smc layers at 7 days to 28 +/- 5 intimal smc layers at 28 days after excimer laser ablation (p less than 0.01). after 42 days, no additional increase of intimal thickening occurred. after bromodeoxyuridine labeling, the extent of cell proliferation (percent of cells undergoing dna synthesis) in the intima and media was determined using a monoclonal antibody against bromodeoxyuridine. immunohistological quantification of smc proliferation in the intima revealed a significant increase of cells undergoing dna synthesis at 3 (p less than 0.05) and 14 (p less than 0.01) days after laser treatment. medial proliferation of smcs was delayed and had a significant increase 7 days (p less than 0.05) after intervention. twenty-one days after laser treatment, smc proliferation in the intima as well as in the media was normalized. conclusions. the proliferative response of smcs after experimental excimer laser treatment will occur as a dynamic process with a maximum of smcs undergoing dna synthesis during 14 days after laser ablation, resulting in an increase of intimal thickening within 4 weeks after laser treatment. the extent of intimal hyperplasia due to smc proliferation after excimer laser treatment is comparable with the effect of transluminal balloon angioplasty in this experimental model.
dietary predictors of symptom-associated gallstones in middle-aged women. in 1980, 88,837 women aged 34-59 y completed a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire and were followed for 4 y. four hundred thirty-three women reported a cholecystectomy for recent cholecystitis, and 179 reported unremoved, newly symptomatic gallstones diagnosed by ultrasound or x ray. among the 59,306 women with quetelet's index of relative weight less than 25 kg/m2, inverse associations were observed between intakes of vegetable fat and vegetable protein and the risk of reportedly symptomatic gallastones, after adjusting for age, quetelet's index in 1980, weight change between 1976 and 1980, energy intake, and alcohol intake. the relative risk in the highest quintile of vegetable fat intake, as compared with the lowest quintile, was 0.6 [95% confidence interval (ci), 0.4-0.9], and the corresponding relative risk for vegetable protein intake was 0.7 (95% ci, 0.6-0.9). no significant associations were found with energy-adjusted intakes of cholesterol, animal fat, animal protein, carbohydrate, or sucrose.
advances in data assessment. application to the etiology of nausea reported during chemotherapy, concerns about significance testing, and opportunities in clinical trials. typical inferential statistical procedures, such as the t-test and analysis of variance, compare differences in mean values of variables. this approach can sometimes obscure rather than illuminate research data. here we present and discuss alternative data analytic techniques. potential advantages of box plots over conventional t-tests for understanding data are shown by comparing the area under high and low frequencies from spectral curves of autonomic changes following chemotherapy treatment. typical t-tests provide information regarding statistical significance in terms of the differences in group means; box plots and related exploratory techniques provide information regarding the characteristics of the distributions within the groups as well as examination of potential outliers. multivariate analysis of variance (manova) and other multivariate techniques are commonly used to deal with potentially complex data sets with multiple outcome measures. the potential advantages of visual clustering techniques such as star plots, chernoff faces, and andrew's function plots are demonstrated by examining changes in facial pallor caused by chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. typical manova approaches can identify potential differences in mean values between groups; visual clustering approaches do this by graphically presenting complex interrelationships for individual cases. this approach enhances the visual interpretation of potential interactions that would be obscured by simply focusing on overall mean values. preliminary data from a meta-analysis on the effect of metoclopramide on chemotherapy-induced vomiting demonstrates the potential uses and advantages of this summary technique over simple tabular summaries. we found significant relationships between the effect size of the drug and variables such as the year of study publication and whether the publication was an article or an abstract. while none of these techniques are meant to replace traditional inferential statistics, they offer advantages in terms of data exploration and understanding relationships within data sets that are not clearly addressed by other methods. they are potentially valuable alternatives worthy of exploration. finally, we discuss issues of interim analyses and multiple endpoint assessment for clinical trials.
adverse haemodynamic effects of high-dose aprotinin in a paediatric cardiac surgical patient. high-dose aprotinin for reduction of intra- and postoperative blood loss was associated with profound hypotension and flushing in a 3.5-year-old child who underwent cardiac surgery. treatment with noradrenaline and intravenous fluid was required. cardiovascular stability was restored after 10 minutes.
induction of in vitro graft-versus-leukemia activity following bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia. we studied the in vitro effects of lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells from the peripheral blood of chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) patients after allogeneic and syngeneic bone marrow transplantation (bmt). lak cells were generated by incubating peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients post-bmt with recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) (500 u/ml) in 10% ab serum for 7 days. they were phenotyped and tested for activity in a standard 4-hour 51cr release assay (n = 37) and in a cfu-gm assay (n = 24). we found that the lak cells were mainly activated natural killer cells, but some were cd3+ t cells. in the 51cr release assay lak cells from 20 of 33 (61%) allogeneic and 2 of 4 syngeneic recipients killed recipient cml cells and in 22 of 37 (60%) cases also killed the hla disparate cml cells. in the cfu-gm assay the lak cells incubated together with the cml cells in liquid culture before plating inhibited (p less than .05) colony growth in 16 of 22 allogeneic and 2 of 2 syngeneic recipients. cell-cell contact was necessary for optimal effect. there was little or no inhibition of proliferation of donor marrow cfu-gm. this in vitro graft-versus-leukemia (gvl) effect could also be demonstrated after lak effectors were depleted of cd3+ t cells. it was inducible in recipients of both t cell-depleted and t cell-replete donor marrow and in recipients with or without graft-versus-host disease. these results suggest that a major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted gvl effect is inducible following allogeneic and syngeneic bmt. the use of il-2/lak cells after bmt could reduce the risk of relapse.
the effect of the gastrin receptor antagonist proglumide on survival in gastric carcinoma. gastric cancer remains a disease with a very poor prognosis, and there is no safe and effective form of therapy for advanced disease. evidence is now abundant to show that gastrin stimulates the growth of both gastric and colorectal cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and that blockade of gastrin receptors can prolong survival in xenografted nude mice. we have thus performed a randomized, controlled study of the gastrin/cholecystokinin receptor antagonist proglumide as therapy in 110 patients with gastric carcinoma. proglumide had no overall effect on survival (mantel-cox statistic = 0.5, p = 0.48). the 95% confidence interval for the proglumide treated group was 260 to 474 days compared to 230 to 372 days for the control group. no significant difference was seen with proglumide, which has a relatively low affinity with the gastrin receptor and also has partial agonist activity. drugs that are far more specific and potent gastrin receptor antagonists are becoming available, which may have a greater effect on survival, and further clinical trials of such compounds are clearly indicated to determine the efficacy of hormonal control of gastrointestinal malignancy.
primary intramedullary nailing of open femoral shaft fractures. the cases of 60 patients with 63 open femoral fractures treated by primary reamed intramedullary nailing were retrospectively reviewed. twenty-two were classified as type i open fractures, 26 as type ii and 15 as type iii open fractures by gustilo's classification. all fractures were treated by wound debridement followed by immediate reamed intramedullary nailing. there were five early soft-tissue infections and three late deep infections. of the late infections, only one was osteomyelitis (1.6%). there were three nonunions and seven malunions. all of the complications were dealt with effectively by standard methods. we concluded that primary reamed intramedullary nailing is an effective alternative for the treatment of type i and ii open femur fractures and for type iii open femur fractures associated with multiple trauma.
perioperative monitoring of blood flow in femoroinfragenicular vein grafts with doppler ultrasonography: a preliminary report. a system for monitoring blood flow in femorodistal vein grafts with doppler ultrasonography in the immediate postoperative period has been developed. twenty-three grafts have been monitored for periods of up to 72 hours. seventeen grafts have remained patent at minimum follow-up of 6 months, and six grafts occluded in the immediate postoperative period. successful doppler recordings were obtained in 16 successful and all failed grafts. fast fourier transform analysis of the doppler signals was performed, and pulsatility index and time-averaged mean velocity were derived from the spectral information. successful grafts displayed hyperemic flow with pulsatility index less than 2 and time-averaged mean velocity greater than 10 cm/sec. failed grafts could be classified in two groups: those that occluded less than 24 hours after operation and those that occluded after 24 hours after operation. short-term failure was categorized by highly pulsatile flow, with pulsatility index rising rapidly and time-averaged mean velocity falling correspondingly before actual cessation of flow. delayed failure was less well defined but was suggested by failure to develop, or early deviation from, the hyperemic flow seen in successful grafts. occlusion was heralded by development of the pulsatile pattern seen in the short-term failure group.
acute leukemia and related entities. impact of new technology. twenty-seven cases of acute leukemia and related entities were evaluated by morphologic examination, cytochemical study, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase study, immunophenotyping, cytogenetic analysis, ultrastructural cytochemical study, and gene rearrangement analysis to determine the impact on the determination of the french-american-british (fab) classification and the definitive diagnosis. the definitive diagnosis contained prognostic, diagnostic, and treatment information beyond the fab classification that affected the disease course and patient management. all diagnostic variables were evaluated in each case and were labeled essential, ambivalent, supportive, or noncontributory. except for gene rearrangement analysis, all variables we studied contributed essential data to establish the definitive diagnosis. ambivalent findings were rare but could be explained with the knowledge of the total data. all variables, except cytochemical study, whose results were almost always essential, contributed supportive data. noncontributory data only occurred with cytogenetic analysis in cases that demonstrated normal karyotypes. the fab classification was established in 20 (74%) of the cases by use of morphologic examination, cytochemical study, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase study. with use of the same variables, however, the definitive diagnosis, whose determination required all data, was established in only 15 (55.5%) of the cases. the addition of immunophenotyping increased the definitive diagnosis to 25 (92.5%) of the cases. the use of ultrastructural myeloperoxidase and platelet peroxidase analysis enabled us to definitively diagnose the remaining two cases (27 cases [100%]). cytogenetic analysis revealed four cases in which essential information was added to the diagnosis. however, because the cytogenetic information usually was not immediately available, the result did not affect the immediate diagnosis or treatment. surprisingly, the gene rearrangement studies did not yield essential data in any case and in a few cases contributed ambivalent data. this finding should not exclude gene rearrangement analysis in selected cases; however, the data should always be interpreted in light of all clinical and laboratory findings. this study clearly demonstrates the importance of a multifaceted approach to the understanding of the acute leukemias and related entities and shows the impact of newer technologies on reaching a definitive diagnosis.
sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled probes for detection of human papillomavirus by in situ hybridisation. the sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled dna probes for the detection of human papillomavirus (hpv) by dot blotting and in situ hybridisation was compared in tissues from cervical, laryngeal, and anogenital neoplasia. probes were either labelled with digoxigenin by the random primer technique and detected with anti-digoxigenin antibody, or labelled with biotin by nick translation and detected with streptavidin, both methods having a common final visualisation procedure using alkaline phosphatase. digoxigenin labelled probes proved two to 10-fold more sensitive by quantitative dot blotting and four-fold more sensitive in detecting hpv 16 dna in a series of 31 anal carcinomas, compared with biotinylated probes. the digoxigenin method also produced less non-specific background staining of tissue sections than biotin labelled probes. it is concluded that digoxigenin dna labelling and detection provides a simple, reliable, and efficient alternative to the use of biotin or radioactive isotopes for the detection of hpv dna by in situ hybridisation. digoxigenin labelled probes also offer the possibility of double labelling in situ hybridisation procedures when used with biotin labelled probes to provide simultaneous identification of different dna sequences.
micromotion of cemented and uncemented femoral components. we evaluated the initial stability of cemented and uncemented femoral components within the femoral canals of cadaver femurs during simulated single limb stance and stair climbing. both types were very stable in simulated single limb stance (maximum micromotion of 42 microns for cemented and 30 microns for uncemented components). however, in simulated stair climbing, the cemented components were much more stable than the uncemented components (76 microns as against 280 microns). there was also greater variation in the stability of uncemented components in simulated stair climbing, with two of the seven components moving 200 microns or more. future implant designs should aim to improve the initial stability of cementless femoral components under torsional loads; this should improve the chances of bony ingrowth.
squamous carcinoma in the liver. squamous carcinoma of the liver has only rarely been reported. we present a case which highlights not only the difficulties in diagnosis but also how it can closely mimic sclerosing cholangitis.
gallbladder dynamics in patients with irritable bowel syndrome and essential dyspepsia. to assess whether gallbladder motility is altered in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) or essential dyspepsia (ed), we studied gallbladder function in 25 healthy volunteers, 20 patients with ibs, and 22 with ed. by real time ultrasonography, we studied the following parameters: (a) fasting gallbladder volume, (b) maximum percent of gallbladder emptied, (c) time required for maximal contraction, (d) residual volume after maximal contraction, and (e) percent fasting volume at 2 h. all parameters, except fasting gallbladder volume, were measured after a high-fat meal. the fasting gallbladder volume, maximum percent of gallbladder emptied, time required for maximal contraction, residual volume after maximal contraction, and percent fasting volume at 2 h in controls and patients with ibs was 19.3 +/- 8.8 ml and 24.4 +/- 9.7 ml, 67.1 +/- 10.7% and 67.6 +/- 13.5%, 41 +/- 20.6 min and 49.7 +/- 25.3 min, 6.2 +/- 3.3 ml and 7.6 +/- 5.3 ml, and 38.1 +/- 12.2% and 40.7 +/- 14.5%, respectively. the differences between the two groups were statistically not significant. the corresponding values in patients with ed were 15.5 +/- 6.3 ml, 57.6 +/- 16.5%, 51.8 +/- 29.3 min, 6.1 +/- 3.2 ml, 44.1 +/- 17%, respectively. compared with controls there was no statistically significant difference in these parameters, except the maximum percent of gallbladder emptied, which was significantly less than that in controls (57.6 +/- 16.5% vs. 67.1 +/- 10.7%; p less than 0.05). therefore, we could not find that patients with ibs have any abnormality of gallbladder function; postprandially, patients with ed have submaximal contraction of the gallbladder.
thoracoscopy for the diagnosis of pleural disease. objective: to assess the accuracy and safety of thoracoscopy for the evaluation of pleural disease. design: prospective evaluation of patients referred for thoracoscopy. setting: university hospital specializing in chest diseases. patients: we studied 102 patients with pleural disease, the cause of which had not been determined after initial investigation, including thoracentesis and needle biopsy. eighty-six patients had pleural effusion, 11 had pleural mass, and 5 had pleural effusion in association with a known primary lung carcinoma. intervention: all patients had thoracoscopy under local anesthesia with mild sedation. visually directed biopsies were done of parietal pleura. measurements: we recorded clinical characteristics, laboratory data, findings and duration of thoracoscopy, and any complications associated with the procedure. hospital and clinic follow-up records were reviewed, and patients were contacted by telephone 12 and 24 months after thoracoscopy to assess their health status. main results: one hundred and four thoracoscopies were done in 102 patients. a definitive diagnosis was established in 95 patients: 42 had malignant pleural disease and 53 had benign pleural disease. a diagnosis of benign pleural disease using thoracoscopy could not be confirmed in the remaining 7 patients because of insufficient follow-up information. overall, thoracoscopy was 96% accurate with a sensitivity of 91%, a specificity of 100% and a negative predictive value of 93% for the diagnosis of pleural malignancy. thoracoscopy was well tolerated under local anesthesia and entailed hospitalization for less than 24 hours in most cases. no deaths occurred, although 1.9% of patients had major complications, and 5.5% had minor complications. conclusions: among patients with pleural disease remaining undiagnosed after usual initial investigation, thoracoscopy done under local anesthesia is a rapid, safe, and well-tolerated procedure with an excellent diagnostic yield that is equivalent to that of thoracotomy.
soleus-specific myopathy induced by passive stretching under local tetanus. twenty-four adult albino rats were injected with tetanus toxin into the right gastrocnemius muscle and then subjected to sustained dorsiflexion of the right ankle joint for 2 to 14 days. histologic examinations of the soleus after this procedure showed myopathic changes, characterized by variations in fiber diameters, myonecrosis with opaque fibers, interstitial fibrosis, and small groups of regenerated fibers. electron microscopy revealed derangement of t-tubules immediately adjacent to the sarcolemma in the early degenerative stage. the size and wet weight of soleus increased compared to that of the control side between 2 and 5 days post-tetanus. serum got, ldh, and creatine kinase (ck) levels were elevated especially in the early degenerative stages. peri- and endomysial fibrosis developed gradually from about 3 days post-tetanus. pathomechanisms inducing these changes were discussed.
role of new antiplatelet agents as adjunctive therapies in thrombolysis. coronary thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for patients with acute q-wave myocardial infarcts who have no contraindications to such therapy. however, the time required for thrombolysis and the possibility of reocclusion of the infarct-related artery remain problematic. herein are described experimental animal studies and clinical evaluations in which attempts have been made to develop adjunctive therapies that, when coupled with available thrombolytic interventions, might shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent reocclusion. from the studies conducted to date, it is clear that a combined thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist and heparin shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models with copper coil-induced coronary artery thrombi. a monoclonal antibody to the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia receptor coupled with tissue plasminogen activator (t-pa) and heparin also shortens the time to thrombolysis and delays or prevents reocclusion in experimental canine models. thrombin inhibitors, including heparin and synthetic inhibitors, given with t-pa and aspirin, appear to shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models. aspirin coupled with intravenous streptokinase reduces mortality in patients with presumed acute myocardial infarction, and a combination of heparin and t-pa results in infarct-artery patency more frequently than t-pa without heparin. data from these studies are encouraging with regard to the possibility of developing effective and relatively safe thrombolytic regimens that shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion.
hypertension, endothelium, and cardiovascular risk factors. the functions of the endothelium and the effects of hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes on the endothelium are reviewed. the endothelium affects vascular tone by releasing vasodilators and modulating the effects of vasoactive substances such as catecholamines, bradykinin, serotonin, and angiotensin ii. relaxation of vascular smooth muscle depends upon a functionally intact endothelium and the release of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor nitric oxide. endothelial cells also appear to release a hyperpolarizing factor that relaxes smooth muscle through activation of the sodium-potassium pump, and of the endothelium-dependent contracting factors. similarities are found in the vascular injury resulting from hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes. when these risk factors coexist, they can act synergistically and magnify the vascular injury. the endothelium appears to be one of the major targets for these forms of injury. future therapeutic strategies will focus on ways to prevent, arrest, or reverse endothelial injury.
expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor and its receptor in gynecologic malignancies. recently, hematopoietic growth factors have been implicated in protean nonhematopoietic processes. in the current study, expression of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf) and its receptor (the c-fms proto-oncogene) was investigated in 42 samples of gynecologic tissues. there were 15 samples of normal ovarian and uterine tissue or benign conditions of these organs; 11 samples of primary ovarian cancer tissue; seven samples of metastatic ovarian cancer tissue; and nine samples of primary endometrial cancer tissue. steady state transcript levels were assessed by northern blot analysis. macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf) expression was not observed in any of the specimens of benign abnormalities or of normal organs; c-fms expression was detected in two of 15 (13%) of these specimens, albeit at very low levels. in contrast, 14 (78%) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens, and five (55%) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed m-csf. similarly, 16 (89%) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens and six (67%) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed c-fms. most positive malignant tissues (19 [86%] of 22) showed coexpression of m-csf and c-fms. of interest, m-csf and c-fms mrna were detected in tumor, but not in adjacent normal tissue. furthermore, m-csf and c-fms transcripts were produced by all metastatic tumors, including two cases in which the corresponding primary tumor from the same patient was negative. because m-csf mediates its effects by binding to its receptor, the increased levels of both these gene products in gynecologic malignancies suggest that an interaction between m-csf and c-fms may participate in the development of ovarian and endometrial carcinomas and especially in progression to the metastatic state.
colon cancer in pregnancy with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level at presentation. a case of colon cancer in pregnancy is presented in which the maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level was elevated. failure to evaluate colon cancer as a cause of the elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein may have accounted for the poor outcome.
linking in accessory pathways. functional loss of antegrade preexcitation. background. concealed retrograde activation has been proposed as a mechanism for antegrade conduction block in the bundle branches and atrioventricular accessory pathways. we studied this hypothesis (linking) in 10 patients with the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in whom antegrade preexcitation could be persistently blocked by overdrive atrial pacing. methods and results. an atrial pacing protocol, with a decremental ramp followed by an incremental ramp, defined a range of atrial paced cycle lengths (linking window) associated with both persistent conduction and block in the accessory pathway. within the limits of the linking window, the ability of an atrial impulse to conduct over the accessory pathway was dependent on the preceding state (i.e., conduction or block). the observed linking window ranged from 70 to 290 msec (mean, 185 +/- 68 msec) and closely approximated the measured delay in retrograde activation of the accessory pathway during persistent antegrade block. the mean antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathways was long (486 +/- 156 msec), and in each case, it exceeded the antegrade refractory period of the normal atrioventricular pathway. critically timed premature ventricular extrastimuli, delivered while linking was maintained in the accessory pathway, were able to interrupt the linking and restore antegrade accessory pathway conduction. conclusions. these observations suggest that accessory pathway linking is associated with bidirectional block in the accessory pathway. the ability to initiate linking (and the stability of the phenomenon) depends on a critical relation between antegrade accessory pathway refractoriness and the magnitude of retrograde accessory pathway activation delay.
sudden death due to delayed rupture of hepatic subcapsular hematoma following blunt abdominal trauma. blunt abdominal trauma can cause sudden, unexpected death due to injuries to internal organs. rupture of a hepatic subcapsular hematoma is a relatively rare cause of sudden death following minor blunt abdominal trauma. death may be delayed several days to weeks. the autopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool that can be utilized to uncover sudden deaths due to abdominal trauma. the case of an alcoholic who died of a ruptured hepatic subcapsular hematoma is presented. the death investigation revealed that the victim had sustained blunt abdominal trauma during a fall a few days prior to death.
role of visceral afferent mechanisms in functional bowel disorders. this report analyzes the clinical and physiological evidence supporting a role for altered visceral afferent mechanisms in the pathogenesis of two functional bowel syndromes: noncardiac chest pain and the irritable bowel syndrome. considerable recent evidence indicates that increased contractility is present only in a minority of patients and that hypercontractile episodes are not temporally related to abdominal pain. in contrast, altered sensation and motor reflexes in response to physiological stimuli, such as mechanical distention or acid, is common when appropriately investigated. the vagal and spinal afferent innervation mediates visceral sensation and is involved in multiple reflex loops regulating gastrointestinal effector function, such as motility and secretion. sensory input can be modulated peripherally at the afferent nerve terminal, at the level of prevertebral ganglia, the spinal cord, and the brainstem. an up-regulation of afferent mechanisms would result both in altered conscious perception of physiological stimuli and in altered motor reflexes. current evidence is consistent with an alteration in the peripheral functioning of visceral afferents and/or in the central processing of afferent information in the etiology of altered somatovisceral sensation and motor function observed in patients with functional bowel disease.
small non-cleaved-cell lymphoma (undifferentiated lymphoma, burkitt's type) in american adults: results with treatment designed for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. purpose: small non-cleaved-cell lymphoma (sncl) "burkitt's type," a rapidly growing lymphoma, has been rare among adults in the united states, but has greatly increased in incidence with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome epidemic. this report details the results of treatment of adult sncl with a series of protocols originally designed for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). patients and methods: between july 1973 and may 1987, 29 adults with newly diagnosed sncl were treated at memorial hospital with intensive chemotherapy originally designed for all: the cyclophosphamide l-2, l-10, l-17, and l-20 protocols. nine patients had positive serologies for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. one patient with all measurable disease resected was not evaluable for response. results: sixteen of 28 evaluable patients (57%) achieved a complete remission with treatment. with follow-up as long as 153 months (median, 47 months), 50% of all patients and 59% of patients with negative or unknown hiv serologies have survived and are probably cured. patients with an initial serum lactic acid dehydrogenase (ldh) level of greater than 500 u/l had a significantly shortened survival as compared with those with a lower serum ldh. other pretreatment patient characteristics associated with a shortened survival of borderline statistical significance were high national cancer institute stage (c, d) and bone marrow involvement. these results are similar to those for all and lymphoblastic lymphoma and are comparable to those for american sncl in the literature. conclusions: approximately one half of adults with sncl are curable with intensive chemotherapy. more intensive chemotherapy with hematopoietic growth factor and/or autologous bone marrow or peripheral stem cell support may increase curability.
a useful technique for measurement of back strength in osteoporotic and elderly patients. improvement of back extensor strength (bes) can be used as a therapeutic method for patients with chronic back pain and osteoporosis. the method of evaluation must be reliable and accurate without compromising the condition of the patient. we report the development of a back isometric dynamometer (bid-2000) designed specifically by two of us to address these concerns in elderly patients with osteopenia or osteoporosis. as the demographics of the general population change, increasing numbers of patients will need the type of monitoring that the bid-2000 provides. aging has been shown to cause a reduction in the number of functional muscle motor units. to examine this effect on bes, we tested 50 normal, healthy women who were 30 to 79 years old. proper testing of bes in patients with fragile vertebrae should include isometric measurement in the prone position, maneuverability of the device to allow comfortable positioning of the patient, and simplicity of technique to minimize repetitious performance of maximal contraction. the bid-2000 incorporates each of these features and also provides meaningful results inexpensively. the device offers a safe, reliable (coefficient of variation = 2.33%), and valid (p = 0.001) method of evaluation. the results of our study demonstrated moderate, steady reduction of bes with increasing age and with each successive decade.
systemic atropine administration during cardiac arrest does not cause fixed and dilated pupils. objectives: systemic administration of atropine during cpr may postpone brain death determination because of its reputed ability to produce fixed and dilated pupils. we studied the effect of atropine administered in the usual doses as an adjunct to endotracheal intubation and for cardiac arrest to determine if it would interfere with neurological assessment. design: two groups of children were studied. group 1 consisted of 28 patients who received atropine (0.03 +/- 0.003 mg/kg) prior to endotracheal intubation. group 2 consisted of 21 patients previously without evidence of brainstem disease who suffered a witnessed arrest and had prompt return of spontaneous circulation and received an atropine dose of 0.03 +/- 0.01 mg/kg. results: in group 1, pupillary size averaged 4.02 +/- 0.78 mm before and 4.75 mm +/- .84 mm after atropine (p less than .001). in group 2, the pupillary examination was conducted 30 minutes after return of spontaneous circulation. the pupillary diameter was 4.80 +/- 0.91 mm. all pupils were reactive to light in both groups. conclusion: atropine administration in conventional dose causes slight pupillary dilation but does not abolish pupillary light reactivity.
surgical treatment of double major scoliosis. improvement of the lumbar curve after fusion of the thoracic curve. we have evaluated two methods of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic double major scoliosis in 59 patients. in group 1, 31 patients were treated by fusion of the upper curve only. in group 2, 28 patients had lumbar fusions also including most of the lower curve. the magnitude of the lower curve and the correction obtained in traction were good indicators of the correction achieved postoperatively. forty-four patients were reviewed at a minimum of 10 years after operation. those in group 1 showed sustained improvement of the lower curve with minimal stiffness and pain. group 2 patients had lumbar curves of similar severity at review, but had significantly more low back pain and stiffness. the number of lumbar segments which remained mobile appeared to be a critical factor in determining the outcome. selective fusion of the upper curve in double major scoliosis produces satisfactory results if the lumbar curve is less than 50 degrees. it may also be appropriate for flexible lumbar curves of larger angle.
gastric contents retained in rat stomach following mild irritant exposure contribute to adaptive cytoprotection. fluid retained in the gastric lumen immediately preceding the administration of a damaging product will dilute that product and decrease its injurious capacity. in an attempt to explain the phenomenon of adaptive cytoprotection, we studied the effect of mild irritant exposure on the volume of fluid retained in the gastric lumen. rats treated with 0.2 n-0.4 n hcl had a larger volume of gastric fluid retained as compared to animals treated with 0.4 n nacl. additionally, a mixture of gastric juice derived from rats exposed to 0.4 n hcl with 2 ml ethanol was significantly less damaging to the gastric mucosa than a similar mixture containing an equal volume of gastric juice derived from 0.4 n nacl-exposed rats. we conclude from our observations that in mild irritant-exposed stomachs, the gastric juice is a main contributor to the protection against ethanol injury.
adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder. a premalignant lesion? gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract, but its early diagnosis is uncommon. the use of ultrasonography has increased the detection of benign gallbladder tumors, and the premalignant potential of gallbladder adenomas is now undisputed. adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder has recently been suggested to have malignant potential, and we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder occurring in localized adenomyomatosis that was successfully treated by radical curative surgery. the more rigorous use of ultrasonography and a more aggressive approach to "benign" polypoid lesions of the gallbladder may represent the best way of achieving early diagnosis and cure in gallbladder cancer.
quantification of biomedical findings of chronic pain patients: development of an index of pathology. difficulties in assessing and quantifying the biomedical signs and symptoms that may be related to patients' reports of pain are well recognized. although there appears to be some consensus among physicians as to the potential utility of examination and diagnostic tests frequently used to evaluate chronic pain patients, little attention has been paid to the reliability of interpreting the results of these procedures. moreover, the integration of biomedical findings to form a general index of pathology associated with chronic pain has been a difficult problem to solve because not all biomedical procedures used to evaluate pain patients are necessarily relevant or indicated for a specific patient. two studies are presented that were designed to evaluate the reliability of 23 biomedical procedures commonly used to evaluate chronic pain patients and to determine if findings on these procedures can effectively be combined to form a reliable index of physical pathology. the results of study 1 suggest that 17 of the 23 procedures can be applied in clinical setting with acceptable levels of reliability. study 2 provides evidence that an innovative weighted scoring approach, based on current medical consensus, can be used to produce a reliable, general index of pathology that is independent of the number of procedures used to evaluate patients. the utility of this quantification approach to biomedical findings for clinical and research purposes is discussed.
cumulative aids incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections. to determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) experienced increased deaths from sepsis, central nervous system abscess, or endocarditis, new jersey aids patients were grouped according to their age, sex, race, and residence-specific cumulative incidence of aids since the onset of the aids epidemic. between 1980 and 1986, among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for aids, sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 11.9 deaths/100,000/year (95% confidence interval (6.9, 17.0) deaths/100,000/year); mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 (0.1, 3.2) deaths/100,000/year; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100,000/year to 2.4 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 1.6 (-0.5, 3.7) deaths/100,000/year. age-matched new jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of aids did not sustain a similar increase. the hiv disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in u.s. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades, but was previously limited to older populations.
effects of tracheal irritation and hypercapnia on tracheal smooth muscle in humans. both hypercapnia and tracheal irritation are known to constrict the airways in animals. to see whether similar responses occur in humans, we investigated tracheal smooth muscle (tsm) responses to hypercapnia and tracheal irritation with water in 14 paralyzed and anesthetized humans. tsm tone was monitored by measuring the pressure in the saline-filled cuff of the endotracheal tube. although, tracheal irritation caused tsm constriction in 10 of 14 patients, 4 patients showed no tsm response. administration of intravenous atropine attenuated the tsm constriction response. hypercapnia did not cause any change in tsm tone in any of the 14 patients. these results indicate that in paralyzed and anesthetized humans, there exist interindividual differences in the tsm responses to tracheal irritation and that hypercapnia cannot be an effective stimulus for the tsm constriction.
stimulatory effects of maitotoxin on insulin release in insulinoma hit cells: role of calcium uptake and phosphoinositide breakdown. in hamster insulinoma (hit) cells, maitotoxin (mtx) induces a time-dependent and concentration-dependent release of insulin that requires the presence of extracellular calcium. the response is nearly completely blocked by cinnarizine and cadmium, but is not inhibited by the l-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine or by manganese. mtx induces 45ca+ uptake in these cells in a dose-dependent mode, and the uptake is blocked with cinnarizine, nifedipine and cadmium, and is partially inhibited by manganese. mtx induces phosphoinositide breakdown in hit cells, and the response is partially blocked by cadmium, but is not affected by nifedipine, cinnarizine or manganese. high concentrations of potassium ions also induce insulin release and calcium uptake in hit cells. both effects of potassium are blocked partially by nifedipine, cadmium and cinnarizine. high concentrations of potassium do not induce phosphoinositide breakdown in hit cells. the results suggest that mtx-elicited release of insulin is attained by two mechanisms: 1) a nifedipine-sensitive action, which results from mtx-induced activation of l-type calcium channels, which can be mimicked with high potassium concentrations; and 2) a nifedipine-insensitive action, which may be initiated by the activation of phosphoinositide breakdown by mtx. such an activation of phospholipase c would result in the formation of 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate, a release of intracellular calcium and then release of insulin to the extracellular space. cinnarizine is proposed to block both mtx-elicited mechanisms, the first by blockade of calcium channels and the second by blocking 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate-induced release of internal calcium. either mechanism alone appears capable of eliciting release of insulin.
current status of duplex doppler ultrasound in the examination of the abdominal vasculature. duplex doppler ultrasound has come to play a central role in the diagnosis of a broad spectrum of vascular diseases such as carotid artery occlusive disease and deep vein thrombosis. the role of duplex doppler in the evaluation of intra-abdominal vascular disease remains unclear. this article summarizes the current status of duplex scanning in the investigation of the mesenteric arteries, the renal arteries, and the portal venous system. the examination is technically demanding, operator-dependent, time-consuming, and frequently unsatisfactory due to bowel gas, obesity, complex anatomy, or postoperative alterations in the normal anatomic patterns. its advantages reside primarily in the absence of toxicity and in the generation of physiologic as well as anatomic information. in centers with the proper instrumentation and a skilled technician, duplex examination can be useful in the diagnosis and management of abdominal vascular disease and avoids the inherent dangers of contrast angiography.
optimal wound closure after tethered cord correction. technical note. a technique of wound closure following tethered cord correction is presented that significantly reduces the incidence of cerebrospinal fluid collections in the subcutaneous space. in over 60 cases, the described method of fascia and skin closure has lessened wound problems to a minimal level. patient hospitalization time has also been greatly diminished.
cardiac fluoroscopy for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease: a meta analytic review. to evaluate variability in the reported accuracy of fluoroscopically detected coronary calcific deposits for predicting angiographic coronary disease, we applied meta analysis to 13 consecutively published reports comparing the results of cardiac fluoroscopy with coronary angiography. population characteristics and technical and methodologic factors were analyzed. sensitivity and specificity for predicting serious coronary disease compare quite well with those from the literature on the exercise ecg and the exercise thallium scintigram. sensitivity increases and specificity decreases more significantly with patient age, and sensitivity is paradoxically lower in laboratories testing patients with more severe disease, as well as when 70% rather than 50% diameter narrowing is used to define angiographic disease. work-up and test review bias were also significantly related to reported accuracy.
detection and evaluation of intrapulmonary vascular shunt with "contrast doppler" transesophageal echocardiography. contrast echocardiography is useful for detecting intrapulmonary right-to-left shunt lesions. in a patient with suspected pulmonary arteriovenous fistula, contrast transesophageal echocardiography was used to demonstrate the presence of a right-to-left shunt. by use of a combination of two-dimensional echocardiography, contrast injection, and pulsed doppler echocardiography, each pulmonary vein was successfully interrogated for evidence of contrast shunting. this case demonstrates that contrast transesophageal echocardiography is useful for the detection of intrapulmonary fistulas and that it has the potential for localization of the shunt lesion.
laser recanalization versus endoscopic intubation in the palliation of malignant dysphagia. forty patients with widely disseminated or locally advanced malignant obstruction of the middle or lower third of the oesophagus underwent endoscopic treatment by either ndyag laser recanalization or intubation. groups were matched on the basis of tumour location and swallowing was graded clinically before and after treatment. technical success was achieved in 17 of 20 laser treated and 18 of 20 intubated patients. pretreatment swallowing ability, histology, tumour location and overall length were unrelated to functional outcome in both groups. however, circumferential tumour length identified endoscopically strongly influenced the quality of swallowing after laser recanalization. patients with excellent swallowing quality (n = 7) had significantly shorter circumferential tumour lengths, 3.1(1.0) cm, than those with poorer quality swallowing (n = 10), 6.3(1.6)cm, (p less than 0.001). both methods of treatment had low complication rates and there was one death in the series in the laser-treated group. laser recanalization provides a better functional result than intubation for short (less than 4 cm) circumferential tumour. intubation at a single session seems more appropriate than repeated laser therapy when tumour length exceeds 4 cm.
diagnosis of campylobacter pylori gastritis. campylobacter pylori is a bacterium that inhabits gastric mucosa. it causes chronic active gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal ulcer. campylobacter pylori has a urease enzyme (not present in man), which allows diagnosis by a [14c]urea breath test. we compared two noninvasive tests, the breath test and serum elisa, to biopsy and histologic diagnosis. twenty-two patients who underwent gastroduodenoscopy for evaluation of possible peptic ulcer disease entered the study. the breath test detected the organism in eight of eight patients biopsy-positive for the organism (sensitivity 100%). the breath test was negative in 12 of the 14 patients who were biopsy-negative (specificity 86%). the elisa was performed in 14 patients. it was positive in 5 of 5 patients biopsy-positive for the organism (sensitivity 100%) and negative in 7 of 9 patients who were biopsy-negative (specificity 78%). we conclude that both the elisa and the [14c]urea breath test are excellent noninvasive methods to detect campylobacter pylori. however, only the breath test is suitable for following the response to treatment, as it detects the presence of the organism rather than an immune response to it.
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease (the framingham study). the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta, as detected on chest x-rays, and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort (n = 5,209). the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age, with only a trivial male predominance. its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65, even after other risk factors were taken into account. similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease, stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women. in middle-aged men these risks were less marked. the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age. risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years. these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process. the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac, cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation.
methodologic issues in assessing the quality of life of cancer patients. although quality of life assessments have been employed successfully in descriptive and evaluative studies in oncology, their use in cancer clinical trials has, to date, been limited. a range of issues have impeded the conduct of clinical trial-based quality of life investigations. these include: the absence of theoretical models to guide the development of quality of life measures; over-reliance on ad hoc approaches to quality of life assessment; and insufficient attention to the practical constraints operating in clinical research settings. of primary importance is the need to develop multidimensional quality of life instruments that are brief and psychometrically robust. it is suggested that future work on instrument development focus on refining currently available generic or cancer-specific measures, and on developing new diagnostic-specific questionnaire modules. this psychometric work should be guided by appropriate theoretical models of the relationship among health-related quality of life domains. although it is widely accepted that the patient represents the most appropriate source of quality of life data, it is suggested that efforts also be directed toward improving the validity and reliability of physician-generated assessments of patients' performance status and of treatment toxicities, and toward determining the feasibility of employing family members as proxy raters of the psychologic and social health status of patients who are unwilling or unable to provide such information. additional attention should be paid to the many logistical problems that arise in clinical trial-based quality of life investigations. in particular, research designs and data collection procedures should be selected that minimize patient, medical staff, and institutional burden.
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. i. summary of the current concepts of the mechanisms of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia that is frequently resistant to medical therapy and has no satisfactory surgical therapy. the development of an effective surgical procedure to treat atrial fibrillation has been hampered by the paucity of clinically relevant information on the basic mechanisms responsible for the arrhythmia. this paper summarizes the current concepts of the electrophysiologic abnormalities in atrial flutter and fibrillation.
disordered colorectal motility in intractable constipation following hysterectomy. colorectal and anal sphincter motility and electrophysiology were investigated in 14 women with profound constipation following hysterectomy and compared with an asymptomatic group of control subjects. twelve patients complained of significant urinary symptoms. no differences in the motor function of the anal sphincters were detectable. the latency of the pudendoanal reflex was unchanged after hysterectomy. proctometrograms demonstrated significantly increased rectal volumes and compliance in the hysterectomy group together with deficits of rectal sensory function. in the basal state a significant proximal-to-distal sigmoid colon motility gradient existed only in the control group. following stimulation with prostigmin, this gradient was enhanced in the control group but paradoxically reversed in the hysterectomized patients, thus constituting a functional obstruction. denervation supersensitivity was demonstrable in two patients tested with carbachol provocation but not in control subjects. these findings suggest dysfunction in the autonomic innervation of the hindgut in some patients who had undergone hysterectomy, resulting in severe constipation.
epithelial tumors of the ovary: ct findings and correlation with us. one hundred thirty patients with 170 epithelial ovarian tumors were prospectively studied with computed tomography (ct) before surgery. ultrasound (us) was performed in 108 patients with 138 tumors. at pathologic examination, 78 tumors (46%) were benign, 14 (8%) borderline, and 78 (46%) malignant. ct results were compared with surgical and pathologic findings in all patients. ct enabled detection of 148 of 170 tumors (87%), and us enabled detection of 118 of 138 tumors (86%). benign serous cystadenomas (n = 42) were correctly characterized with a sensitivity of 69% at ct and 70% at us. benign mucinous cystadenomas (n = 21) were correctly characterized with a sensitivity of 62% at ct and 50% at us. malignancy was suggested in nine of 14 patients (64%) with borderline tumors at ct and in five of 14 (36%) at us. the overall accuracy of characterization of benign versus malignant tumors (including borderline tumors) was 94% with ct and 80% with us. in the 108 patients studied with both ct and us, the sensitivity of ct was significantly superior to that of us (p less than .03), whereas there was no significant difference in specificity (p = .125).
idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis in a man. idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis is a rare disease described in young adolescent women, characterized by fibrosis and adhesions of the peritoneum to loops of the small bowel. here we describe a 35-year-old man who underwent exploratory laparotomy for repeated small bowel obstruction. only partial resection of the terminal ileum was possible because of adhesions; recurrent abdominal infections and leakage from anastomosis required further resection, which ultimately resulted in short bowel syndrome and malabsorption. the clinical and pathological findings were characteristic for idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis. we review the relevant literature, to confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that this is the first report of a male patient who has developed this rare disease.
torsades de pointes therapy with phenytoin. we present the case of a woman with myocardial infarction complicated by malignant ventricular arrhythmia and torsades de pointes. the torsades de pointes was refractory to conventional therapy but responsive to phenytoin. this case suggests the clinical usefulness of phenytoin for adjunct therapy of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias when standard treatment modalities fail.
when is polypectomy sufficient treatment for colorectal cancer in a polyp? eighty-seven patients with a carcinoma in a polyp were reviewed over a 12-year period. ten histologic criteria were analyzed for an association with the presence of residual carcinoma. four factors were identified as having prognostic value: size greater than 1.5 cm, sessility, cancer of at least 50% of the adenoma volume, and invasive carcinoma. polypectomy alone is adequate treatment unless the carcinoma invades deeper to the muscularis mucosa and is associated with one or more of these characteristics.
extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation after scleral buckling surgery. we reviewed the records of 28 patients who had undergone successful scleral buckling surgery followed by extracapsular cataract extraction with implantation of an intraocular lens. posterior chamber intraocular lenses were inserted in 27 eyes, and anterior chamber intraocular lenses were inserted in two eyes with posterior capsule rupture at the time of surgery. the mean follow-up period was 44 months. final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 15 of 29 eyes (52%). one eye (3.4%) developed a recurrent retinal detachment 15 months after cataract surgery. two eyes (6.9%) developed angiographically proven cystoid macular edema. the outcome for extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation in eyes that had previously undergone successful scleral buckling for retinal detachment is favorable.
p53 mutations in colorectal cancer. immunohistological staining of primary colorectal carcinomas with antibodies specific to p53 demonstrated gross overexpression of the protein in approximately 50% of the malignant tumors examined. benign adenomas were all negative for p53 overexpression. to determine the molecular basis for this overexpression we examined p53 protein expression in 10 colorectal cancer cell lines. six of the cell lines expressed high levels of p53 in elisa, cell-staining, and immunoprecipitation studies. direct sequencing and chemical-mismatch-cleavage analysis of p53 cdna by using the polymerase chain reaction in these cell lines showed that all cell lines that expressed high levels of p53 were synthesizing mrnas that encoded mutant p53 proteins. in two of those four cell lines where p53 expression was lower, point mutations were still detected. thus, we conclude that overexpression of p53 is synonymous with mutation, but some mutations would not be detected by a simple immunohistochemical analysis. mutation of the p53 gene is one of the commonest genetic changes in the development of human colorectal cancer.
the current spectrum of peptic ulcer disease in the older age groups. not only has there been a relative increase in the prevalence of peptic ulcer disease (pud) among america's older age groups, but the characteristics of pud in these patients differ significantly from those of the general population. seventy-two consecutive patients 60 years of age or older who underwent operation for pud between 1984 and 1989 were studied. the unusual features in these patients were 1) 92 per cent required emergency operation, 2) 57 per cent with perforated pud were female, 3) 85 per cent had duodenal pathology, 4) 28 per cent were currently taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, and 5) over one half of all patients had serious postoperative complications. the increasing incidence and associated serious complications of pud in the elderly population present new challenges to physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.
overt hepatic encephalopathy precipitated by zinc deficiency. encephalopathy in liver disease may be unresponsive to protein restriction, lactulose, and neomycin. zinc supplements have been reported to improve psychometric performance in liver cirrhosis, but the importance of zinc deficiency in overt hepatic encephalopathy has not yet been clearly established. a patient with severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy was studied to determine the relation between her signs of encephalopathy and zinc deficiency. the study included a period in which zinc deficiency was artificially induced by oral histidine. an episode of overt encephalopathy occurred that was identical to earlier episodes and responded to oral zinc. the study showed an association between encephalopathy and zinc deficiency by successive zinc depletion and supplementation regimens. long-term zinc supplementation improved severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy and therefore the quality of life.
diaphragmatic fatigue produced by constant or modulated electric currents. in anesthetized rabbits the efficiency of phrenic nerve stimulation with trains of electric current was studied either when ventilation was effected entirely by bilateral nerve stimulation (electrophrenic ventilation) or during unilateral nerve stimulation when animals were ventilated with a pump and open chest. trains of rectangular electric pulses (rpt) with constant amplitude and frequency or sine waves, both the amplitude and frequency of which were modulated and controlled by a computer (mswt), were used with each animal. mswt closely reproduced the physiological shape of transdiaphragmatic pressure waves. diaphragm fatigue, as determined from the decrease in the maximal relaxation rate of twitches, occurred after 20 minutes of bilateral or unilateral nerve stimulation with rpt, but only after 60 min (unilateral stimulation) or 98 min (bilateral stimulation) with mswt. these data show the importance of the motor signal pattern in long-lasting nerve stimulation.
diagnostic quality and complications of hysterosalpingography: oil- versus water-soluble contrast media--a randomized prospective study. in a prospective randomized study of 417 patients, side effects and complications of contrast media and the diagnostic quality of images obtained after hysterosalpingography (hsg) were evaluated after use of diatrizoate meglumine (104 patients), ioxaglate (105 patients), iohexol (105 patients), or ethiodized poppy-seed oil (103 patients). the authors detected no differences among these groups in the prevalence of pain during hsg. the prevalence of lower abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding after hsg was significantly lower in the group that received ethiodized poppy-seed oil than in the three other groups. the prevalence of pelvic infection or inflammation was significantly lower with ethiodized poppy-seed oil than with water-soluble media. all contrast media provided acceptable diagnostic image quality with regard to fallopian tubes, peritoneal spill, and intraperitoneal distribution. visualization of the uterine cavity and ampullary rugae was significantly better with water-soluble media than with ethiodized poppy-seed oil, which was associated with a high conception rate and which the authors consider preferable for hsg.
magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates that electric stimulation of cerebellar fastigial nucleus reduces cerebral infarction in rats. we sought to determine whether high spatial resolution magnetic resonance imaging is useful for noninvasive quantitation of the ischemic infarct produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery and for detection of reduced infarct volume elicited by electric stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus. male rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain were anesthetized, the middle cerebral artery was occluded, and the fastigial nucleus was stimulated for 1 hour. twenty-four hours later, rats were reanesthetized and t1- and t2-weighted images were obtained. rats were killed and the volume and distribution of the lesion was established by histopathology. magnetic resonance imaging estimates of the lesion volume were 271 +/- 41.0 mm3 (middle cerebral artery, n = 5) and 148 +/- 8.4 mm3 (middle cerebral artery + fastigial nucleus stimulation, n = 6; 45% reduction, p less than 0.05). histopathological analysis revealed a lesion of 229.8 +/- 15.4 mm3 involving somatosensory cortex, lateral caudate putamen, and lateral hippocampus. fastigial nucleus stimulation resulted in a 36% reduction in infarct volume to 146.0 +/- 10.3 mm3. the retrieved zone was largely in the cortex dorsal and ventral to the lesion and mostly posterior to the lesion. the estimates of lesion volume by magnetic resonance imaging and histopathology did not differ and were highly correlated (r = 0.90; p less than 0.001). this study confirms our previous finding that fastigial nucleus stimulation reduces the volume of a focal ischemic infarct and demonstrates that magnetic resonance imaging not only accurately estimates the volume of the lesion but also can detect changes as small as 50-100 mm3.
internists' practices in health promotion and disease prevention. a survey. objective: to estimate internists' use of disease prevention and health promotion activities, and to explore demographic, professional, behavioral, psychological, cognitive, and organizational factors associated with the use of such practices. design: mail survey. setting and subjects: a sample of 2610 members and fellows of the american college of physicians (acp) participated in the study. they engaged in patient care activities more than 20 hours per week and were stratified by gender and region. they lived in four geographic areas of the united states (northeast, southeast, central, and west), comprising 21 acp regions. measurements: a questionnaire requesting background information as well as information about personal health; record keeping; use of immunizations (pneumococcal, influenza, tetanus, hepatitis b); use of screening tests and procedures for detecting cancer (breast examination, papanicolaou smear, stool occult blood test) and other diseases (electrocardiograms, cholesterol level tests, chest radiographs); and behavioral counseling to promote health (in the areas of smoking, exercise, and alcohol and seat belt use). main results: internists used effective preventive interventions less frequently and ineffective practices more frequently than experts recommend. internists' use of health promotion and disease prevention activities is associated with habit, attitude, and a lack of adequate knowledge. younger physician age, general internal medicine practice, and personal health promotion and disease prevention practices were strongly associated with more appropriate use of recommended practices (p less than 0.01). conclusions: internists' use of disease prevention and health promotion activities falls short of expert recommendations. programs to improve the delivery of preventive services might be aimed at improving physicians' personal health practices, might be directed toward patients, and might include the development of effective systems to remind physicians.
refractory parastomal ulcers: a multidisciplinary approach. chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual. previous reports have implicated infections, fistulas, recurrent inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), pyoderma gangrenosum, and trauma. over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery. eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer. five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations. they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing. the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses (contact dermatitis, eczema, or bullous pemphigoid) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis. these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks. we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy.
in vivo selection and characterization of a murine mammary tumor subline with high potential for spontaneous lymph node metastasis. a transplantable mammary adenocarcinoma, grown in balb/c mice, with a marked enhancement in its draining lymph node metastatic ability (mm3ln), was obtained through an in vivo procedure from a variant tumor moderately metastatic to lymph nodes (mm3). both mm3 and mm3ln presented a similar latency and tumor growth rate and reached the same tumor mean diameter at death. mm3ln tumor-bearing mice exhibited a larger mean survival time. the new variant showed a 2.5-fold higher incidence of tumor-draining lymph node metastases than mm3 line, with no differences in the incidence of lung metastases. morphology as well as cytogenetic and in vitro adhesion properties were studied in order to characterize the new subline. this murine tumor model has potential application in the study of the metastatic process in lymphoid tissue.
correlation between amino acid release and neuropathologic outcome in rat brain following middle cerebral artery occlusion. using in vivo brain microdialysis, we studied amino acid release in the striatum and cortex of eight rats following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. we then processed all brains for histopathologic assessment of the volume of ischemic damage 4 hours after occlusion. ischemic damage was varied by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery at a point either proximal (n = 4) or distal (n = 4) to the lenticulostriate vessels. proximal occlusion elevated the dialysate contents of all amino acids. the largest increases occurred for the potentially neurotoxic amino acids aspartate and glutamate and for taurine (800-2,800% of basal efflux). we observed smaller increases for the "metabolic" amino acids (280-580% of basal efflux). distal occlusion did not affect amino acid efflux in the striatum, and release in the cortex was significantly lower than that following proximal occlusion. we compared release data with acute histopathologic outcome. proximal occlusion resulted in a large volume of ischemic damage in the cortex and striatum (25-48% of hemispheric volume). a smaller volume of ischemic damage was noted following distal occlusion (0-21% of hemispheric volume). the volume of ischemic damage and the amount of amino acid release were significantly correlated (p less than 0.05).
colonoscopic screening of asymptomatic patients with a family history of colon cancer. the records of 201 asymptomatic patients who underwent colonoscopy based solely on a family history of colon cancer were reviewed. eighty-five patients (42 percent) had a total of 166 lesions. fifty-four (27 percent) patients of the screened population had neoplastic lesions, while 31 (15 percent) patients had nonneoplastic polyps. four carcinomas were found. twenty-five of the patients with polyps (29 percent) had no polyps distal to the splenic flexure; these proximal polyps (and two carcinomas) would have been missed on screening with fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy. nineteen of these 25 patients had polyps smaller than 0.5 cm, which likely would have been missed with contrast enemas. almost one half (47 percent) of all polyps discovered at screening colonoscopy were proximal to the descending colon. only one patient younger than 40 years old had adenomas. the yield of polyps and cancer in patients with familial risk indicates screening colonoscopy should be considered after age 40.
intralesional interferon therapy for basal cell carcinoma. in a clinical trial of 172 patients at four medical centers, interferon alfa-2b (1.5 x 10(6) iu) or a placebo was injected directly into biopsy-proved noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas three times weekly for 3 weeks, for a cumulative dose of 13.5 million iu. efficacy of treatment was determined at 16 to 20 weeks by examination of biopsy specimens that demonstrated cure of lesions in 86% of interferon-treated patients and in only 29% of placebo-treated patients. during the treatment course and follow-up, an initial inflammatory response was observed at the treatment sites, followed by diminished erythema, improvement in overall appearance, and a decrease in size of lesions. side effects of treatment, mainly flu-like symptoms, were usually mild and transient and occurred more commonly in the interferon-treated group. only three patients, all in the interferon-treated group, discontinued therapy because of side effects. one year after initiation of therapy, 81% of interferon recipients and 20% of those given the placebo remained tumor free. noduloulcerative and superficial lesions were equally responsive to treatment with interferon. for some patients with noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas, intralesional interferon alfa-2b may be an alternative, effective treatment.
sexual behavior before aids: the hepatitis b studies of homosexual and bisexual men. data on sexual practices, collected during studies of hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection in 1978 and 1979, were analyzed for 4910 homosexual and bisexual men from chicago, denver, los angeles, san francisco, and st louis. data on sexual practices in 1978 showed that white participants had larger numbers of non-steady male sexual partners and engaged in oral-genital activities more frequently but were equally likely to engage in anal intercourse as black and hispanic participants. san francisco participants had more non-steady sex partners and were more likely to engage in receptive anal intercourse with non-steady partners than participants from all other sites. analysis of data on 606 hbv-antibody-negative men interviewed on three occasions in 1978 and 1979 showed no changes in risk indices for insertive and receptive anal intercourse between these years, except in san francisco where significant declines occurred in insertive anal intercourse and receptive anal intercourse without ejacultion in a small, highly select group of participants.
oral cholecystography in contemporary gallstone imaging: a review. the introduction of nonoperative alternatives to elective cholecystectomy in the management of gallstones has resurrected use of oral cholecystography (ocg). this article reviews basic principles involved in the proper performance of ocg and interpretation of the resulting images. the role of ocg in the current management of gallstones is discussed.
cerebrovascular and metabolic effects on the rat brain of focal nd:yag laser irradiation. to investigate the effects of focal neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (nd:yag) laser irradiation (lambda = 1060 nm) on regional cerebral blood flow, cerebral protein synthesis, and blood-brain barrier permeability, the parietal brain surface of 44 rats was irradiated with a focused laser beam at a constant output energy of 30 j. survival times ranged from 5 minutes to 48 hours. laser irradiation immediately caused well-defined cortical coagulation necrosis. within 5 minutes after unilateral irradiation, 14c-iodoantipyrine autoradiographs demonstrated severely reduced blood flow to the irradiation site and perilesional neocortex, but a distinct reactive hyperemia in all other areas of the forebrain. apart from a persistent ischemic focus in the vicinity of the cortical coagulation necrosis, blood flow alterations in remote areas of the brain subsided within 3 hours after irradiation. autoradiographic assessment of 3h-tyrosine incorporation into brain proteins revealed rapid onset and prolonged duration of protein synthesis inhibition in perifocal morphologically intact cortical and subcortical structures. impairment of amino acid incorporation proved to be completely reversible within 48 hours. immunoautoradiographic visualization of extravasated plasma proteins using 3h-labeled rabbit anti-rat immunoglobulins-showed that, up to 1 hour after irradiation, immunoreactive proteins were confined to the neocortex at the irradiation site. at 4 hours, vasogenic edema was present in the vicinity of the irradiation site and the subcortical white matter, and, at later stages (16 to 36 hours), also extended into the contralateral hemisphere. although this was followed by a gradual decrease in labeling intensity, resolution of edema was still not complete after 48 hours. analysis of sequential functional changes in conjunction with morphological alterations indicates that the evolution of morphological damage after laser irradiation does not correlate with the time course and spatial distribution of protein synthesis inhibition or vasogenic edema. although the central coagulation necrosis represents a direct effect of radiation, the final size of the laser-induced lesion is determined by a delayed colliquation necrosis due to persistent perifocal ischemia. extent and severity of ischemia in a zone with initial preservation of neuroglial cells can be explained by the optical properties of the nd:yag laser; extensive scattering of light within brain parenchyma associated with a high blood-to-brain absorption ratio selectively affects blood vessels outside the irradiation focus.
allelic loss of chromosomes 16q and 10q in human prostate cancer. recent advances in understanding the molecular genetics of common adult tumors have indicated that multiple genetic alterations including the activation of oncogenes and the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes are important in the pathogenesis of these tumors. loss of heterozygosity is a hallmark of tumor suppressor gene inactivation and has been used to identify chromosomal regions that contain these genes. we have examined allelic loss in the most common tumor in men, prostate cancer. twenty-eight prostate cancer specimens have been examined for loss of heterozygosity at 11 different chromosomal arms including 3p, 7q, 9q, 10p, 10q, 11p, 13q, 16p, 16q, 17p, and 18q. fifty-four percent (13/24) of clinically localized tumors and 4 of 4 metastatic tumors showed loss of heterozygosity on at least one chromosome. chromosomes 16q and 10q exhibited the highest frequency of loss of heterozygosity with 30% of tumors showing loss at these chromosomes. these data demonstrate that allelic loss is a common event in prostate cancer and suggest that chromosomes 16q and 10q may contain the sites of tumor suppressor genes important in the pathogenesis of human prostate cancer.
in vivo evaluation of monopolar versus bipolar electrosurgical polypectomy snares. the energy required and tissue damage in bipolar and monopolar polypectomy snares were compared in a canine model. the bipolar snare required an average of 34 joules of energy, whereas the monopolar snare required 228 joules to cut the same diameter of gastric mucosa tended into a polypoid structure (p = 0.0005). the reduced energy delivered to the tissue from the bipolar procedure resulted in only 32% average depth of damage to the underlying gastric wall, whereas the monopolar procedure caused an average 69% (p = 0.001). surgically created polyps required 247 joules and 69 joules for corresponding monopolar and bipolar polypectomy (p = 0.001). the decreased energy required and the correspondingly reduced damage caused to the underlying bowel wall by the bipolar snare should reduce the incidence of perforation and post-polypectomy syndrome. the bipolar snare completes a local circuit about the snare, eliminating the return electrode and, consequently, the possibility of any return electrode burns. the bipolar snare thus provides an added safety margin during polypectomy.
1990 ogura memorial lecture: moral dilemmas in head and neck cancer. neither morality nor dilemma can be defined meaningfully in the concept of the practical management of head and neck cancer. although both have important implications, particularly with regard to ethnic and social factors, they play a relatively minor role in determining management policy. with little knowledge of the intrinsic causes of cancer and with a treatment strategy limited to radiotherapy and surgery, our desire for cure must be tempered by concern to avoid any increase in patient privations. my philosophy, based upon the care of more than 3500 patients over almost 30 years, reflects some of the difficulties of applying the concept "do nothing that may cause harm," while offering each patient the opportunity for long-term cure.
left ventricular filling impairment in asymptomatic chronic alcoholics. systolic left ventricular dysfunction is relatively common in even asymptomatic alcoholics, but whether diastolic function is also altered is much less well-studied. we used m-mode and doppler echocardiography to study left ventricular size, mass, systolic function and diastolic filling in 32 alcoholics free of clinically detectable heart disease and in 15 healthy control subjects. left ventricular mass index and posterior wall thickness were higher in alcoholics than in controls, but there was no statistically significant difference either in end-diastolic size or in systolic ventricular function. more abnormalities were found in the doppler indexes of diastolic function, however. the alcoholics had a prolonged relaxation time (200 +/- 6 vs 184 +/- 5 ms [mean +/- standard error], p less than 0.05), a decreased peak early diastolic velocity (52 +/- 2 vs 60 +/- 3 cm/s, p less than 0.05), a slower acceleration of the early flow (410 +/- 18 vs 552 +/- 43 cm/s2, p less than 0.01), and a higher atrial-to-early peak velocity ratio (0.74 +/- 0.04 vs 0.60 +/- 0.05, p less than 0.05). this pattern of changes suggests a primary abnormality in the relaxation of the left ventricle. in multivariate analyses, the abnormalities in the doppler indexes were independent of the duration of alcoholism, the quantity of the most recent ethanol exposure and the increased mass of the left ventricle. impaired early filling of the left ventricle due to delayed relaxation is common in asymptomatic alcoholics and may in fact be the earliest functional sign of preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy.
effect of verapamil on mortality and major events after acute myocardial infarction (the danish verapamil infarction trial ii--davit ii) the effect of verapamil on death and major events (i.e., death or reinfarction) after an acute myocardial infarction was studied in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multicenter trial. eight hundred seventy-eight patients started treatment with verapamil, 360 mg/day, and 897 patients with placebo. treatment started in the second week after admission and continued for up to 18 months (mean 16 months). ninety-five deaths and 146 major events occurred in the verapamil group and 119 deaths and 180 major events in the placebo group. the 18-month mortality rates were 11.1 and 13.8% (p = 0.11, hazard ratio, 0.80; 95% confidence limits, 0.61 to 1.05), and major event rates 18.0 and 21.6% (p = 0.03, hazard ratio, 0.80; 95% confidence limits, 0.64 to 0.99) in the verapamil and placebo groups, respectively. in patients without heart failure in the coronary care unit the mortality rates were 7.7% in the verapamil group and 11.8% in the placebo group (p = 0.02, hazard ratio, 0.64; 95% confidence limits, 0.44 to 0.94), and major event rates 14.6 and 19.7% (p = 0.01, hazard ratio 0.70; 95% confidence limits (0.52 to 0.93). in patients with heart failure the mortality rates were 17.9 and 17.5% (p = 0.79, hazard ratio, 1.05; 95% confidence limits, 0.72 to 1.54), and major event rates 24.9 and 24.9% (p = 1.0, hazard ratio 0.98; 95% confidence limits 0.72 to 1.39). long-term treatment with verapamil after an acute myocardial infarction caused a significant reduction in major events, and the positive effect was found in patients without heart failure.
human breast milk contains bovine igg. relationship to infant colic? previous studies have suggested that an unidentified cow's milk protein, other than beta-lactoglobulin and casein, might play a pathogenetic role in infant colic. therefore, a radioimmunoassay was used to analyze human breast milk and infant formula samples for the presence of bovine igg. milk samples from 88 of the 97 mothers tested contained greater than 0.1 micrograms/ml of bovine igg. in a study group of 59 mothers with infants in the colic-prone 2- to 17-week age group, the 29 mothers of colicky infants had higher levels of bovine igg in their breast milk (median 0.42 micrograms/ml) than the 30 mothers of noncolicky infants (median 0.32 micrograms/ml) (p less than .02). the highest concentrations of bovine igg observed in human milk were 8.5 and 8.2 micrograms/ml. most cow's milk-based infant formulas contained 0.6 to 6.4 micrograms/ml of bovine igg, a concentration comparable with levels found in many human milk samples. the results suggest that appreciable quantities of bovine igg are commonly present in human milk, that significantly higher levels are present in milk from mothers of colicky infants, and that bovine igg may possibly be involved in the pathogenesis of infant colic.
hemangiopericytoma of the sciatic nerve. case report. the authors report the case of a hemangiopericytoma arising in a sciatic nerve. it was found to be invasive within the epineurium but sparing surrounding tissues. adequate resection required sacrifice of the nerve. hemangiopericytomas can be added to the short list of mesodermal peripheral-nerve tumors.
monocytoid b-cell lymphoma arising in extranodal organs. six cases of monocytoid b-cell lymphoma (mbcl) developing in extranodal sites (thyroid, three; stomach, two; rectum, one) are described. patients were all women aged 46 to 65 years (median, 53 years). three patients with thyroid lymphoma presented with an increasing goiter, two with positive serum antithyroid antibodies, and one patient had chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (clth). the histologic type of surgically resected specimens was a diffuse proliferation of atypical lymphoid cells with monocytoid appearance, i.e., abundant pale cytoplasm with distinct cell border and small reniform nucleus. these cells were cd20+, 22+, 24-, 9- showing their b-cell origin. the monoclonal nature of the proliferating cells was confirmed by restricted expression of immunoglobulin (ig) light chain and/or gene rearrangement study in three cases. two cases of thyroid lymphoma in which the monoclonality could not be confirmed had histologic appearances characteristic of malignant lymphoma. all three patients with gastric or rectal lymphoma had reactive lymphoid hyperplasia (rlh) near the tumors. these findings showed presence of mbcl in the extranodal sites with invariable coexistence with lymphoid follicles formed by clth in thyroid or rlh in stomach and rectum.
gastroduodenal mucosa in uraemia: endoscopic and histological correlation and prevalence of helicobacter-like organisms. this study aimed to determine the prevalence of endoscopic and histological gastroduodenitis as well as helicobacter-like organisms in patients with end stage renal failure undergoing maintenance dialysis treatment. a total of 322 out of 422 patients in our dialysis programme underwent endoscopy and gastroduodenal biopsy specimens were taken from 260. endoscopic gastroduodenitis occurred in 158 (49%). histological gastritis occurred in the gastric body or antrum in 134 patients (52%) and duodenitis in 52 (21%). there was no correlation between endoscopic and histological gastritis in contrast to a significant correlation for duodenitis. helicobacter-like organisms occurred in the body or antrum in 81 (31%). their presence was associated with gastritis--in particular acute and acute on chronic gastritis rather than chronic gastritis. patients with gastritis were significantly older than those without (p less than 0.001) and had lower basal and peak acid outputs.
management of spinal cord compression secondary to metastatic prostatic carcinoma. spinal cord or cauda equina compression from prostatic cancer is an oncologic emergency necessitating prompt evaluation and treatment. the strong correlation between pretreatment motor status and treatment outcome underscores the importance of immediate treatment before further neurologic deterioration and before the damage to the spinal cord becomes permanent. patients with known osseous metastases should be alerted by their clinicians to seek medical help within hours should they develop weakness in an extremity. prompt mri of the entire spine should be done prior to treatment. myelography should be reserved for those patients who cannot undergo a technically adequate or expeditious mri study. the convenience of mri relative to myelography allows clinicians to diagnose actual or impending spinal cord compression earlier. high-dose steroids (dexamethasone) should be instituted immediately, and endocrine therapy should be started if not already in use. ambulatory and moderately paraparetic patients seem best treated initially with radiation alone. immediate surgical decompression should be used in patients with an expected lifespan of at least 6 months who deteriorate during radiation, who have had previous radiation to the involved site, or who have a potentially correctable unstable spine. in addition, paraplegic patients or severely paraparetic patients with recent neurologic deterioration should be treated with immediate surgical decompression if they are judged reasonably able to tolerate the surgery. these patients should then receive postoperative radiation treatment.
mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases: 11 years of experience. mechanical ventilation (mv) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure (arf). the aim of this work was to review all episodes of mv in a medical intensive care unit (micu) during the 11-year period 1976-1986. four per cent (n = 1008) of 24,899 admissions to the micu were treated with mv. the mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 +/- 18 years, and obviously it increased during the period of study. the average duration of mv was 4.7 d. micu mortality, hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to mv were 33%, 38% and 46%, respectively. the mortality rate did not change during the study period. cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates, 75 and 79%, respectively, whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose (n = 313) was only 2%. the results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of mv, and we conclude that the effects of mv remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients. improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring, as well as continued research directed at the causes of arf, are equally important in reducing the mortality in arf.
postencephalitic acquired tourette-like syndrome in a child. we report a 6-year-old girl who developed a tourette-like syndrome following presumed herpes encephalitis. this case suggests that tics can be acquired in childhood and may be associated with lesions involving basal ganglia or limbic circuitry.
end stage renal disease serum contains a specific renal cell growth factor. end stage renal disease (esrd) kidneys display abnormal growth characterized by a continuum of cystic disease, adenoma and carcinoma. this study evaluates the hypothesis that serum of patients with esrd contains increased amounts of a growth factor which specifically induces proliferation of renal cells. esrd sera compared to sera from normal controls induced a two to three-fold increase in the proliferative rate of renal cell carcinoma cell lines and normal kidney explants compared to cell lines from other sites. the increased proliferative activity of esrd sera on renal cells was paralleled by an increase in cytosolic free calcium. the growth factor activity was encoded by a polypeptide of between 15 and 30 kd. the activity of esrd sera on renal cells was not mimicked or inhibited by epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and platelet derived growth factor indicating that the renal cell specific growth factor activity in esrd is different from these factors.
lung beta-adrenoceptors in pulmonary hypertension. a study of biopsy specimens in children with congenital heart disease. characteristics of beta-adrenoceptors were analyzed using radioligand-binding techniques with 3h-dihydroalprenolol in lung specimens from 11 children with pulmonary hypertension (median age, three years) undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects and four pediatric control subjects (median age, five years) undergoing thoracotomy for removal of neoplasms or cysts. scatchard analysis of 3h-dha binding to lung membranes showed similar values of the dissociation constant in both groups (kd = 0.72 +/- 0.22 nm in patients vs 1.22 +/- 0.22 nm in controls; p = ns). the receptor density was significantly increased in patients in comparison with controls, with respective values of 164 +/- 19 and 95 +/- 13 fmol/mg of protein (p less than 0.025), and correlated directly with mean pulmonary arterial pressure (r = 0.82; p less than 0.0005). no significant relationship was observed between receptor number and pulmonary arterial medial thickness. thus, the increase in receptor density in these patients may be related to adaptative changes in cells other than vascular smooth muscle.
calcium ionophore, a23187, induces commitment to differentiation but inhibits the subsequent expression of erythroid genes in murine erythroleukemia cells. murine erythroleukemia (mel) cells are a useful model for studying the processes that regulate erythroid differentiation because exposure of these cells to a variety of chemical inducing agents results in expression of erythroid-specific genes and the resultant loss of cellular immortality. previously it has been suggested that the calcium ionophore, a23187, has effects on the early cellular events that lead to the commitment of these cells to differentiation, but was not in itself sufficient to induce differentiation. we demonstrate here that a23187, as well as another calcium ionophore, ionomycin, are capable of inducing commitment to differentiation. unlike other inducing agents, continual exposure to a23187 inhibits transcription of the erythroid-specific genes, beta-globin and band 3. this effect is not attributable to an increase in cytosolic calcium concentration, because cells induced by ionomycin produce normal amounts of hemoglobin. these effects of a23187 on mel cells confirm that commitment to differentiation is a distinct event from the subsequent transcriptional activation of erythroid genes. the ability of both ionophores to induce commitment to differentiation suggests that an increase in cytosolic calcium can trigger commitment to differentiation. these agents should prove useful in investigating the cellular processes that are responsible for commitment to differentiation.
cutaneous t-cell lymphoma (parapsoriasis en plaque). an association with pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta in young children. pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (pleva) and pityriasis lichenoides chronica (plc) are related benign disorders without recognized association with cutaneous t-cell lymphoma (ctcl). we report the cases of two children with documented pleva evolving into ctcl over several years. one child had the clinical lesions of plc but the dermatopathologic findings of pleva at age 2 years. at age 12 years, he had skin changes of poikiloderma atrophicans vasculare and dermatopathologic findings consistent with parapsoriasis en plaque. the second child presented at age 7 years with scaling dermatitis and dermatopathologic findings of pleva. at age 12 years, the histologic diagnosis was parapsoriasis. monoclonal antibody studies performed on biopsy specimens from both patients revealed 70% to 100% cells staining with cd5, 80% to 90% staining with cd4, 30% to 50% staining with cd8, and an increase in cd1-staining cells in the papillary dermis, indicating a predominantly helper t-cell infiltrate. we believe that plc and pleva may be part of the spectrum of ctcl. furthermore, ctcl may be more common in young children than once thought.
vasodilatory beta-blockers: systemic and regional hemodynamic effects. the systemic and regional hemodynamic alterations in hypertension and of the beta-adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents are reviewed. hemodynamically, hypertension may be regarded as persistent elevation of arterial pressure associated with increased total peripheral resistance. in early or mild essential hypertension, however, increased total peripheral resistance may not readily be recognized because of the overriding effect of increased cardiac output. clearly, the hemodynamics of blood pressure control are complex, and the mechanisms of antihypertensive agents must be used appropriately. the early beta-blockers reduced heart rate and cardiac output immediately after intravenous administration without immediately reducing arterial pressure, and calculated total peripheral resistance was increased. with prolonged oral treatment, arterial pressure decreased while maintaining a reduced heart rate and cardiac output. total peripheral resistance, however, remained elevated. recent beta-blockers, such as celiprolol, provide an improved physiologic response by instantly reducing arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance without reducing heart rate or cardiac output or expanding intravascular volume.
serial ca 125 levels during chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of serial ca 125 in monitoring disease status during chemotherapy in women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer. ca 125 was measured in 21 women receiving cisplatin, etoposide, and adriamycin for a total of 275 courses of chemotherapy (median eight). eight of ten patients had elevated pre-therapy ca 125 levels (median 233 u/ml). ca 125 became and/or remained negative in all 20 women with responding or stable disease and was elevated in all nine patients who relapsed. the median level at the time of relapse was 56 u/ml. levels were elevated before clinical relapse in five of nine patients (56%). serial ca 125 may aid in the management of women receiving chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer.
rapid expression of heat shock protein in the rabbit after brief cardiac ischemia. the effect of brief myocardial ischemia on the expression of heat shock protein (hsp 70) was examined in an in vivo rabbit model of myocardial ischemia using northern blotting. functional studies were carried out in the open-chested anesthetized rabbit. the large marginal branch of the left circumflex was occluded four times for 5 min. using piezoelectric crystals implanted midwall in the ischemic zone, end-diastolic length, end-systolic length, and percent segmental shortening were assessed. expression of hsp 70 was measured by northern blotting. a single 5-min coronary occlusion doubled the expression of hsp 70 whereas four cycles of 5 min of ischemia/5 min of reperfusion resulted in a threefold increase in hsp 70 mrna (p less than 0.001). measurements with the piezoelectric crystals showed mild myocardial dysfunction concomitant with the increase in hsp 70. this increase in hsp 70 mrna after repetitive brief ischemia was transient, occurring as early as 1 h and returning to baseline by 24 h after ischemia. western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody to hsp 70 was used to compare sham and postischemic myocardial hsp 70 levels. changes in the amount of hsp 70 were evident as early as 2 h and were even more striking at 24 h.
prevalence of aortic regurgitation by color flow doppler in relation to aortic root size. to determine whether there is a correlation between aortic root size and the prevalence of aortic regurgitation, we performed color flow doppler echocardiographic studies on 1015 consecutive patients during a 3-month period. patients were grouped according to their m-mode aortic root diameter as measured in the left parasternal position. the measured groups ranged from 2.0 to 4.5 cm, grouped at 0.1 cm intervals. as the aortic root size enlarged, the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increased linearly (p less than 0.001; correlation coefficient, r = 0.75). at an aortic root size in the "small normal" range of 2.0 to 2.4 cm, the prevalence of aortic regurgitation was 0% to 15%. in the "intermediate" and "top normal" ranges of 2.9 to 3.7 cm, the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increased linearly from 15% to 47%. with aortic root dilation, the prevalence of aortic root regurgitation was generally more than 50%. the severity of aortic regurgitation was semiquantified. aortic root size was not a good indicator for the severity of aortic regurgitation. patients with moderate and severe aortic regurgitation had variable aortic root sizes. throughout the range of aortic root sizes, mild aortic regurgitation predominated. we conclude that aortic regurgitation is a common finding in patients with aortic roots that are dilated or are in the "top normal" size range, that the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increases linearly with aortic root size, and that aortic root size does not correlate with the severity of aortic regurgitation.
a prospective comparison of laser therapy and intubation in endoscopic palliation for malignant dysphagia. there is little objective long-term follow-up comparing laser therapy with intubation for palliation of malignant dysphagia. in a prospective, nonrandomized two-center trial 43 patients treated with the neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser were compared with 30 patients treated by endoscopic intubation; the two groups were comparable for mean age and tumor position, length, and histology. dysphagia was graded from 0 to 4 (0, normal swallowing; 4, dysphagia for liquids). pretreatment mean dysphagia grades were similar: laser-treated group, 2.9 (sd, 0.6); intubated group, 3.2 (sd, 0.55). for thoracic esophageal tumors, the percentage of patients achieving an improvement in dysphagia grade by greater than or equal to 1 grade initially and over the long term was similar (laser, 95% and 77%; intubation, 100% and 86%). for tumors crossing the cardia, intubation was significantly better (laser, 59% and 50%; intubation, 100% and 92%, respectively; p less than 0.001). in patients palliated over a long period, however, the mean dysphagia grade over the remainder of their mean dysphagia grade over the remainder of their lives (mean survival: laser, 6.1 months; intubation, 5.1 months) was better in the laser group (1.6 vs. 2.0; p less than 0.01); 33% of laser-treated and 11% of intubated patients could eat most or all solids (p less than 0.05). for long-term palliation, laser-treated patients required on average more procedures (4.6 vs. 1.4; p less than 0.05) and days in the hospital (14 vs. 9; p less than 0.05). the perforation rate was lower in the laser-treated group (2% vs. 13%; p less than 0.02); no treatment-related deaths occurred in either group. for individual patients, the best results are likely to be achieved when the two techniques are used in a complementary fashion in specialist centers.
brain microemboli during cardiac surgery or aortography we have observed many focal dilatations or very small aneurysms in terminal arterioles and capillaries of 4 of 5 patients and 6 dogs who had recently undergone cardiopulmonary bypass. a smaller number of sausagelike dilatations distended medium-sized arterioles. two other patients had a small number of the same microvascular changes following proximal aortography. thirty-four patients and 6 dogs not undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass had none. (a 35th patient who had not undergone cardiopulmonary bypass or aortography showed a small number of dilatations; mediastinal air was a suggested source.) some of the dilatations exhibited various forms of birefringence. because most of the dilatations appear empty, we speculate that they are the sites of gas bubbles or fat emboli that have been removed by the solvents used in processing. these microvascular events, occurring only in conjunction with major arterial interventions, may be the anatomical correlate of the neurological deficits or moderate to severe intellectual dysfunction seen in at least 24% of patients after cardiac surgical procedures assisted by cardiopulmonary bypass.
the effects of rate, sequencing, and memory on auditory processing in the elderly. auditory sequencing, rate, and memory were evaluated in three age groups with a series of subtests that require the identification of tones (repetition test; tallal & piercy, 1973). the older elderly group (m age = 80), but not the younger elderly group (m age = 70), performed significantly (p less than .05) poorer than the young adult group (m age = 25) when auditory memory of 4 and 5 tones was required and when the interstimulus interval was decreased. performance was not related to hearing sensitivity, thus suggesting that changes in the auditory mechanism that occur with age may encompass more than a loss of hearing sensitivity. moreover, performance on the repetition test did correlate with memory for digits, which indicates a relationship between auditory processing and higher cortical functions.
creutzfeldt-jakob disease from allogeneic dura: a review of risks and safety. surgeons and the lay public have recently expressed concern over the safety of allogeneic dura as it relates to the transmission of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. indeed, two cases have resulted from use of tissue procured from a commercial agency that did not adhere to criteria accepted by the american association of tissue banks or the southeast organ procurement foundation. this review discusses the risks and safety of allogeneic dura. the findings should reassure the surgeon of the safety of allogeneic dura when it is properly processed and catalogued by a bona fide, reputable tissue bank. to date, there have been no documented cases reported to the center for disease control in which creutzfeldt-jakob disease was transmitted from allogeneic dura obtained from a registered tissue bank.
delayed positive gastrointestinal bleeding studies with technetium-99m-red blood cells: utility of a second injection. two patients studied with technetium-99m-labeled red blood cells (rbcs) for gastrointestinal bleeding had positive findings only on 24-hr delayed images, at which time the site of bleeding could not be ascertained. in each instance, when additional delayed images suggested that active bleeding was occurring, a second aliquot of rbcs was labeled and injected. sites of active hemorrhage were identified following further imaging in both patients. when delayed gi bleeding images are positive, further views should be obtained to ascertain if the pattern of intraluminal activity changes. if renewed active hemorrhage is suspected, reinjection with a second dose of labeled rbcs may identify the bleeding site.
effect of direct intracoronary administration of methylergonovine in patients with and without variant angina. the effects of intracoronary administration of methylergonovine were studied in 21 patients with variant angina and 22 patients with atypical chest pain and in others without angina pectoris (control group). methylergonovine was administered continuously at a rate of 10 micrograms/min up to 50 micrograms. in all patients with variant angina, coronary spasm was provoked at a mean dose of 28 +/- 13 micrograms (mean +/- sd). in the control group neither ischemic st change nor localized spasm occurred. the basal tone of the right coronary artery was significantly lower than that of the left coronary artery. the percentage of vasoconstriction of the right coronary artery was significantly higher than that of the left coronary artery. these results suggest that spasm provocation tests, which use an intracoronary injection of a relatively low dose of methylergonovine, have a high sensitivity in variant angina and the vasoreactivity of the right coronary artery may be greater than that of the other coronary arteries.
enhanced reactive oxygen species metabolism of airspace cells and airway inflammation follow antigen challenge in human asthma. airflow limitation and airway inflammation follow antigen bronchoprovocation in sensitized individuals. inflammation likely results from the interplay of several previously demonstrated factors, but the participation and persistence of enhanced reactive oxygen species (ros) metabolism of airspace cells after antigen challenge have received more limited attention. we studied nine subjects with mild asthma by bronchoalveolar lavage before and 48 (one subject) to 72 (eight subjects) hours after antigen bronchoprovocation and compared airspace cell numbers and types, cell function, and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid protein, albumin, and immunoglobulins. mild, but significant, airflow limitation persisted at the time of the second lavage. eosinophil influx was a notable component of the increased airspace cells in postchallenge lavages. airspace cells demonstrated significantly enhanced ros metabolism, and total protein, albumin, and igm levels were higher in postchallenge lavage specimens. antigen bronchial challenge produces airspace inflammation, which may develop, in part, as a consequence of enhanced ros metabolism of airspace cells.
familial creutzfeldt-jakob disease without periodic eeg activity. four members of a kindred with creutzfeldt-jakob disease are reported, in whom myoclonus did not develop and in whom serial electroencephalograms performed late in their illness failed to show periodic sharp wave complexes. otherwise, the patients' disease duration, clinical features, and neuropathological findings were similar to those described in sporadic cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. our findings and those reported by others suggest that periodic electroencephalographic activity may be rare in familial forms of creutzfeldt-jakob disease, as it is in other slow transmissible encephalopathies.
rapid histological changes in endomyocardial biopsy specimens after myocarditis. the course and response to treatment in acute lymphocytic myocarditis are conventionally monitored by endomyocardial biopsy performed every 3-12 weeks. a patient with a short history (five days) of acute myopericarditis of unknown aetiology presented in cardiogenic shock with evidence of severe systolic dysfunction on the echocardiogram. the initial biopsy specimen showed histologically unequivocal myocarditis. repeat endomyocardial biopsy after four days of treatment with steroids and azathioprine showed substantial histological improvement, a reduction in cellular infiltrate and myocardial necrosis, and interstitial fibrosis. serial biopsies at 2 weeks and then 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, and 14 months after the initial biopsy showed progressive clearing of cellular infiltrate, increasing interstitial fibrosis, and compensatory myocyte hypertrophy by 4 months. at 14 months scattered lymphocytes persisted but myocyte abnormalities had resolved completely. the patient remained symptom free and systolic function was normal during this recovery period. early endomyocardial biopsy (within one week of diagnosis) may yield useful histological information on the response to treatment in patients with myocarditis. it may not be necessary to wait the customary 3-4 weeks to repeat the biopsy. this case shows the chronology of histological changes and emphasises that a return to normal myocardial function may precede resolution of the histological abnormalities, which may persist in part or may resolve totally after the acute episode.
audiological findings following head trauma. traumatic head injury is the principal cause of death and serious physical disability in adolescents and young adult. hearing loss is a common sequela of head trauma. the results of pure tone and auditory brain-stem response (abr) assessment of minor head injury revealed that 20 per cent of these cases showed impairment of hearing including both conductive and sensorineural hearing loss mostly in the high frequencies loss. abr findings showed a significant difference of absolute wave v latency and interwave (iii-v) latencies at repetition rate 11.1 click/sec., and a highly significant difference at a repetition rate of 51.1 click/sec., compared with the control group. in severe head injury, conductive hearing loss was found in only one case, in which a longitudinal fracture of the temporal bone was identified radiologically. no abr could be recorded at a repetition rate of 11.1 click/sec. in either ear of this case; this patient died a few days later. three cases were found with a mixed sensorineural hearing loss; one of them showed a longitudinal fracture radiologically. abr findings in two cases showed prolongation of wave v and i-v interwave latencies, and the third case showed absence of abr recording. in comatose patients, an abr grading system is a more sensitive index of brainstem dysfunction than the simple division of normal versus abnormal abr waves and interwave latencies. presence or prolongation of wave v and interwave latency i-v even in one ear is of good prognostic value in the comatosed patient.
cobb's collar--a forgotten entity. cobb's collar or moormann's ring is a stricture of the bulbar urethra which is largely unrecognised but has considerable relevance urologically as the site of congenital or post-instrumental strictures. the history, anatomy, embryology and surgical importance are reported.
the lewis x antigen. a new paraffin section marker for reed-sternberg cells. using a monoclonal antibody specific to the lewis x antigen (anti-lex), the authors studied 103 cases of hodgkin's disease (hd) in comparison with 57 cases of non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl); three cases of granulocytic sarcoma (gs); two cases of malignant histiocytosis (mh); one case of monoblastic leukemia (ml); one case of interdigitating reticulum cell sarcoma (ircs); six cases of histiocytosis x (hx); one case of reticulohistiocytoma (rh); 44 various reactive conditions of the lymph node (ln). reed-sternberg and related (r-s) cells stained selectively in 80 of 92 cases of hd (87.0%), excluding 11 cases of lymphocyte predominance type. the stain was better in b-5-fixed specimens than in formalin-fixed specimens, showing a dense deposit of reaction products at a paranuclear site and on the cell surface. the staining results were compared with those of leu-m1 and found to be superior both qualitatively and quantitatively (detection rate of r-s cells: 87.0% versus 68.5% of leu-m1). granulocytes, rare epithelioid histiocytes, and some endothelial and/or erythrocytes also stained with anti-lex. the stain had positive results in three cases of gs showing a diffuse cytoplasmic staining pattern. of nhl, two of 29 peripheral t-cell lymphomas stained to show rare paranuclear deposits without cell surface staining. the stain had negative results in mh, ml, ircs, hx, and rh. of 45 reactive ln, minute subcapsular collections of lewis x+, altered-appearing langerhans'-like cells, were observed in all ten ln from human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-associated persistent generalized lymphadenopathy (pgl). the stain had negative results in all other various reactive conditions of ln. in conclusion, lewis x staining is useful as a marker for r-s cells in paraffin sections with staining results superior to those of leu-m1. lewis x staining also detects subcapsular clustering of altered-appearing langerhans'-like cells in pgl, which has not been described previously and warrants additional study.
sudden unexpected nocturnal death syndrome in the mariana islands. sudden unexpected nocturnal death syndrome (sunds) is a distinct clinical entity in previously healthy, young, southeast asian males. it is well known in the philippines and more recently recognized in the u.s. by nonspecific autopsy findings, with no evidence of underlying disease and absence of toxic drug or alcohol levels. in 1973-89, 14 cases of apparent sunds came to coroner's autopsy in the commonwealth of the northern marianas (cnmi) and guam. all 14 cases, with the exception of one yapese, were previously healthy, male filipinos, aged 23 to 55, who were either found dead in bed, or described by their colleagues as having nocturnal seizure activity consisting of gurgling, frothing, and tongue biting immediately prior to death. autopsy findings showed no anatomic findings to account for death. comprehensive serum and urine drug analyses were negative. all decedents showed absence of significant atherosclerosis or grossly detectable structural cardiac anomaly, while four showed cardiomegaly. migrants from southeast asia carry with them a pre-disposition to this syndrome, which appears to decline with longer residence in the new country. the mechanism of death in sunds is believed to be ventricular fibrillation, possibly precipitated by sudden sympathetic discharge. studies suggest at least some deaths may be associated with an abnormal cardiac conduction system. acute pancreatitis has been a finding in some series, but not our cases. why the condition is virtually limited to males and seemingly sleep-triggered, has not been adequately explained. stress and depression are believed to be predisposing factors.
physical fitness and cardiovascular regulation: mechanisms of orthostatic intolerance. we studied three groups of eight men each--high, mid, and low fit (peak o2 consumption 60.0 +/- 0.8, 48.9 +/- 1.0, and 35.7 +/- 0.9 ml.min-1.kg-1)--to determine the mechanism of orthostatic intolerance in endurance athletes. tolerance was defined by progressive lower body negative pressure (lbnp) to presyncope. maximal calf vascular conductance (gmax) was measured. the carotid baroreflex was characterized using both stepwise r-wave-triggered and sustained (2 min) changes in neck chamber pressure. high-fit subjects tended to have lower lbnp tolerance than mid- and low-fit subjects but similar baroreflex responses. subjects with poor lbnp tolerance had larger stroke volumes (sv) (120 +/- 6 vs. 103 +/- 3 ml) and greater decline in sv with lbnp to -40 mmhg (40 +/- 2 vs. 26 +/- 4%). stepwise multiple linear regression analysis revealed that gmax and steady-state gain of the carotid baroreflex contributed significantly toward explaining interindividual variations in lbnp tolerance. thus endurance athletes may have decreased lbnp tolerance, but apparently not as a simple linear function of aerobic fitness. orthostatic tolerance depends on complex interactions among functional characteristics that appear both related (gmax and sv) and unrelated (baroreflex function) to fitness or exercise training.
continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for amputation surgery--a pilot study. a pilot study of continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for lower limb amputation is presented. at the time of exposure of sciatic or posterior tibial nerve trunks during above- or below-knee amputations in 11 patients with asa physical status iii or iv, a catheter was introduced directly into the transected nerve sheath for continuous infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine at a rate of 10 ml/h for 72 h. effective amputation stump analgesia was obtained, significantly reducing the need for on-demand narcotic analgesics during this time to a mean dose equivalent of 1.4 mg of morphine compared with a retrospective control group who received the equivalent of a mean dose of 18.4 mg of morphine (p less than 0.0001). no complications related to the technique were observed. a follow-up of the group receiving continuous postoperative regional analgesia for up to 12 mo showed a total absence of phantom pain despite the presence of preoperative limb pain.
adult hepatic fibropolycystic disease presenting as obstructive jaundice. obstructive jaundice caused by compression of the common hepatic duct by a simple hepatic cyst in a 31 year old europid man is reported. the jaundice and duct compression resolved after percutaneous aspiration of the cyst under ultrasound direction and the patient has been well for 12 months.
mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands: a reappraisal of the influence of tumor differentiation on prognosis. thirty-nine cases of mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands were reviewed for a reappraisal of the influence of the grade of differentiation on the outcome of the disease. the age of the patients ranged between 7 and 84 years. fifteen patients were females and 24 males. the tumors were located at the parotid gland (n = 30), the submaxillary gland (n = 1), the soft palate (n = 5) and the oral mucosa nos (n = 3). at presentation 4 tumors were intraglandular and 35 extraglandular; three patients had lymph node metastases and one patient lung metastases. the grade of differentiation was assessed using the criteria of healey et al. twelve tumors were classified as grade i, 17 as grade ii, and 10 as grade iii. follow-up information was obtained with a duration of 5-144 months (mean 44.7 months). six cases recurred locally and 5 developed metastases. five years cumulative survival was 100% for grade i, 70.1% for grade ii, and 47.2% for grade iii. the results point to the usefulness of the assessment of the grade of differentiation as a guide to anticipate the outcome of the disease.
use of the calcium agonist bay k 8644 for in vitro diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. we have studied the effects of the calcium agonist bay k 8644 on the in vitro halothane test in 10 malignant hyperthermia-susceptible (mhs), 12 mh "equivocal" to halothane (mheh), 30 mh non-susceptible (mhn) and 10 control patients. bay k 8644 potentiated the halothane-induced contracture in muscle strips from both mhs and mheh patients. the drug produced a more obvious difference in contracture responses between the mheh group compared with the mhn and control groups.
effect of oxygen-free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis. sepsis remains a leading cause of death in the surgical intensive care unit (sicu) patient following major surgery or trauma. recent work has demonstrated that oxygen-free radicals (ofr) generated during sepsis contribute to the pathogenesis of this syndrome. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various new free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis. a total of 85 male sprague-dawley rats were placed into one of the following treatment groups. control: cecal ligation and puncture (clp); pre-at: pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol (at) 10 mg/100 gm sc x 3 days, and 5 mg/100 gm iv prior to clp; at: 20 mg/100 gm at time of clp and 4 hours following clp; u74006f: (21-aminosteroid which inhibits lipid peroxidation) 3 mg/kg iv at the time of and 4 hours following clp; u78517f: (alpha-tocopherol analogue) 3 mg/kg at the time of and 4 hours following clp. survival was determined at various time points up to 72 hours. pretreatment with at resulted in improved survival, whereas the novel ofr scavengers u78517f and u74006f significantly improved survival and were efficacious without pretreatment. it was concluded that ofr scavengers can improve survival in sepsis.
dystonia in parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and progressive supranuclear palsy. adult-onset dystonia-parkinsonism is a syndrome in search of a pathology. we therefore reviewed the literature on dystonic manifestations in autopsy-proven cases of multiple system atrophy (msa), progressive supranuclear palsy (psp), and idiopathic parkinson's disease (pd). only 6 of 140 autopsy reports of msa remarked on the presence of dystonia in life, but personal observations suggest prominent antecollis may develop at some stage in up to 1/2 of sufferers. similarly, very few (15/118) clinicopathologic observations on psp included convincing dystonic manifestations, in contrast to some clinical reports where blepharospasm and early limb dystonia were prominent. virtually any form of focal and segmental dystonia may sometimes occur with clinically diagnosed pd, with occasional descriptions of hemidystonia-hemiparkinsonism. however, there is pathologic confirmation of this diagnosis in only 1 case. with many patients thought clinically to have pd proving pathologically to have another cause for their parkinsonism, the true frequency and the range of dystonic manifestations acceptable in pd remain unknown.
extended hepatectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma. the results of extended hepatectomy in 25 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma performed over a 16 year period have been reviewed, analysed and compared with those of 144 patients who underwent lesser liver resection. five left and 20 right extended hepatectomies were performed for tumours ranging from 3 to 20 cm in diameter. seventeen (68 per cent) of the patients had non-cirrhotic livers. the major postoperative complications were: haemorrhage in five cases, major bile duct injury in three, subphrenic abscess in two, liver failure in one and wound dehiscence in one. the 30-day (operative) mortality rate was 12 per cent and the median survival duration, including operative mortality, was 9.7 (range 0.2-32.1) months. the survival rate was 46 per cent at 1 year, 33 per cent at 2 years and 22 per cent at 3 years. the morbidity, mortality and survival data of extended hepatectomy were comparable with the results of lesser hepatic resections for hepatocellular carcinoma. we conclude that extended hepatectomy is a worthwhile operation for large hepatocellular carcinomas and a viable alternative to liver transplantation.
superficial bladder cancer in patients under 40 years of age. efficacy of topical prophylaxis. in patients under the age of 40 years with primary superficial bladder cancer the efficacy of adjuvant topical treatment was the same as in elderly patients (recurrences 23%, progression rate 8%). patients should therefore be treated on the basis of stage and grade of the tumour regardless of their age.
manual stretch: effect on finger movement control and force control in stroke subjects with spastic extrinsic finger flexor muscles. this study evaluated the effects of manual stretch of extrinsic finger flexor muscles on finger extension movement control and force control in 16 spastic hemiparetic subjects. these subjects were randomly divided into a control group and an experimental group. a group of able-bodied subjects also participated. a joint-movement tracking test (jmtt) quantified control of active finger extension movement at the metacarpophalangeal joint of the index finger within the available range of active movement, and a force tracking test (ftt) quantified control of isometric finger extension force at the same joint within the subject's available force range. electromyographic activity was monitored in the extensor digitorum and flexor digitorum superficialis muscles during both tracking tests. manual stretch was applied to the extrinsic finger flexor muscles of the experimental group between the pretest and posttest tracking tests. the jmtt performances of both control (p less than .025) and experimental (p less than .05) groups were significantly subnormal on the pretest as were ftt performances of controls (p less than .01) and study subjects (p less than .03). the jmtt improvement on posttest was significantly greater (p less than .05) in subjects than in controls. however, the change in ftt performance was not significantly different between the two groups. manual stretch treatment, properly applied to extrinsic finger flexor muscles, is an effective method of temporarily improving the control of finger extension movement in spastic hemiparetic subjects.
cerebral metastases from ovarian carcinoma. apart from choriocarcinoma, involvement of the central nervous system (cns) by gynecologic malignancy is rare. a 10-year retrospective review at the university of washington medical center (seattle, wa) and swedish hospital and medical center tumor registry (seattle, wa) identified 14 patients with cerebral metastases from ovarian carcinoma. median age at diagnosis of cerebral metastases was 52.5 years. median interval from the diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma to the diagnosis of cns metastases was 14.5 months. seven patients had received cisplatin therapy before cns relapse. seven patients underwent second-look procedures before developing cns metastases; in three, results were negative. eight patients had evidence of extraperitoneal spread to other sites at the time of cns relapse. clinical manifestations included motor weakness, seizures, headache, confusion, and speech disturbance. all lesions were contrast enhancing on computed tomography (ct) scans and were located in the cerebral hemispheres. nine patients had single lesions, five of whom underwent surgical resection of the lesion with histologic confirmation of metastases from the primary site. median survival was 2 months in patients receiving radiation therapy alone and 17 months in patients who received surgery and radiation. median survival of the entire series was 3 months. the presence of multiple cerebral metastases or evidence of extraperitoneal spread elsewhere in the body was adversely associated with survival. the prognosis of patients with cerebral metastases from ovarian carcinoma appears poor. however, early diagnosis by routine ct scanning followed by surgical resection and radiation may improve overall survival in a select group of patients.
pheochromocytoma presenting as rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure. we report the case of a previously healthy young woman who presented with the sudden onset of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure, requiring hemodialysis for 3 weeks. common causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out; as renal function returned, severe hypertension was noted and a pheochromocytoma was diagnosed. we suggest that pheochromocytoma causes rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria via catecholamine-mediated vasoconstriction and skeletal muscle ischemia.
treatment of acute hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage with serial lumbar puncture. computed tomography demonstrated acute hydrocephalus less than or equal to 72 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage in 24 (23%) of 104 patients. of these 24 patients, six (25%) had no impairment of consciousness. in nine (11%) of the remaining 80 patients, acute hydrocephalus developed within 1 week after subarachnoid hemorrhage. with the exception of three patients, all 104 patients received antifibrinolytic treatment. delayed clinical deterioration from acute hydrocephalus occurred in seven (29%) of the 24 patients with acute hydrocephalus on admission and in six (8%) of the remaining 80 patients. serial lumbar puncture was performed in 17 patients. twelve (71%) of the 17 patients treated with serial lumbar puncture, including 10 (77%) of the 13 patients with delayed deterioration from acute hydrocephalus after admission, achieved improvement in the level of consciousness. four of these 17 patients (4% of all 104 patients) required an internal shunt. no patient deteriorated from coning following serial lumbar puncture. the rebleeding rate within 12 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage in hydrocephalic patients with serial lumbar puncture was not higher than the rate in those without hydrocephalus (two [12%] of 17 versus nine [13%] of 71). neither meningitis nor ventriculitis was observed. we conclude that if neither a hematoma with a mass effect nor an obstructive element exists, cerebrospinal fluid drainage with serial lumbar puncture is a good alternative to ventricular drainage in patients with acute hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage.
genotypic characterization of centrocytic lymphoma: frequent rearrangement of the chromosome 11 bcl-1 locus. centrocytic lymphomas are defined in the kiel classification as b-cell lymphomas composed exclusively of cells resembling cleaved follicular center cells (fcc). these lymphomas have been shown to be histologically, immunophenotypically, and clinically distinct from other cleaved fcc lymphomas. dna from 18 centrocytic lymphomas (14 patients) was analyzed using southern blotting and probes for immunoglobulin heavy (jh) and kappa light chain (jk) joining gene, t-cell receptor beta chain constant gene (cb), bcl-1, bcl-2, and c-myc gene rearrangements. all of the lymphomas had jh and jk rearrangements, confirming their b-cell origin. none of the specimens had detectable cb, bcl-2, or c-myc rearrangements. however, 4 of 14 patients (28.6%) had rearrangement of the chromosome 11 bcl-1 locus. therefore, centrocytic lymphomas are genotypically distinguishable from the majority of other small cleaved fcc lymphomas by their lack of demonstrable bcl-2 rearrangements. this supports the distinct nature of centrocytic lymphomas and suggests the lack of importance for the putative oncogene bcl-2 in these cases. furthermore, the frequent rearrangement of bcl-1 suggests a possible role for this locus in the pathogenesis of at least some centrocytic lymphomas.
syncope of unknown origin: clinical, noninvasive, and electrophysiologic determinants of arrhythmia induction and symptom recurrence during long-term follow-up. ninety-one consecutive patients with syncope of unknown origin underwent electrophysiologic studies (eps). univariate analysis identified the following variables: age, + signal-averaged ecg (saecg), left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef), history of myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, left ventricular aneurysm, and history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (smvt) on holter; multivariate analysis identified +saecg, lvef, and history of smvt as risk factors for induction of smvt at eps. all patients were followed up for 19.0 +/- 8.3 months and 17 had recurrence of syncope. patients were divided into empiric, ep-guided, and no therapy groups. the ep-guided therapy group included all patients with smvt at eps. recurrence rates among all three groups were similar. we conclude that: (1) patients who have inducible smvt at eps can be identified using certain clinical and noninvasive variables. when these patients undergo ep-guided therapy, their rate of recurrence of syncope becomes compatible with that of patients who had no arrhythmia induced at eps. (2) empiric therapy does not offer any benefit over no therapy in reducing the rate of recurrent of scope.
preventing colorectal cancer. knowledgeable patients should not die of colorectal cancer. increasing the intake of dietary fiber, decreasing fat consumption, and increasing the use of modern technology to detect adenomatous polyps and early cancer can greatly decrease the mortality associated with colorectal cancer.
endothelial cell biology. the endothelium is not a passive blood-compatible lining for the containment of blood cells and plasma, but rather it is a metabolically active tissue that subserves a wide range of functions relating to vascular homeostasis. this article reviews the current understanding of endothelial cell biology in terms of the molecules and biochemical pathways involved. these regulate coagulant and thrombotic properties of the vessel wall, vascular tone, and hence blood flow and pressure; changes in solute permeability and leukocyte traffic during the generation of inflammatory and immune responses; and finally the processes of vessel growth and angiogenesis. the review concludes with a consideration of how these functional properties can be disturbed, and their possible consequences, in response to irradiation, intravascular contrast media, or angioplasty.
anchorage-independent growth and the expression of cellular proto-oncogenes in normal human epidermal keratinocytes and in human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines. the expression of multiple cellular proto-oncogenes and the in vitro anchorage-independent growth of normal human epidermal keratinocytes and several human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines were studied and correlated. squamous cell carcinoma cell lines kb, si ha, hep-2, and fa du showed high anchorage independency, and ms 751 and a-253 cell lines had minimum independency. however, the normal keratinocytes and the a-431 cell line did not show anchorage-independent growth. both the normal human epidermal keratinocytes and cancer cell lines expressed multiple proto-oncogenes such as src, erb b-1, abl, fos, raf, h-ras, and myc, and the amount of expression of these oncogenes was notably higher in the cancer cell lines than in the normal keratinocytes. the expression of proto-oncogenes from the monolayer cultures of the cancer cell lines is poorly correlated with the anchorage independency of the cells. these data indicate that the anchorage independency is not directly linked to the expression of specific cellular proto-oncogene(s) of the monolayer cancer cell cultures.
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns. extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ecmo) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure, but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique. one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight, gestational age, age at initiation of ecmo, best blood gases before ecmo, number of hours on ecmo, renal failure, intracerebral hemorrhage, and long-distance air transport had on survival. infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo, with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values. intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs, with few survivors in either group. these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo, giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values, is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo, whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo. each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications.
what is the best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and sudden death after myocardial infarction? background. death during the first year after myocardial infarction is most commonly due to spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (vt) or fibrillation (vf). the purpose of this study was to compare, in a single cohort of patients, the values of inducible vt, delayed ventricular activation, low left ventricular ejection fraction, high-grade ventricular ectopy, and st segment displacement on exercise in predicting electrical events (witnessed instantaneous death and spontaneous vt or vf) during the first year after myocardial infarction. methods and results. three hundred sixty one patients aged less than 71 years underwent electrophysiological study, signal-averaged electrocardiogram, gated blood-pool scan, 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, and exercise testing 1-2 weeks after myocardial infarction and were then followed up for at least 1 year. there were 34 deaths (eight witnessed instantaneous, 26 other), and nine patients survived one or more episodes of spontaneous vf or vt. patients with inducible vt were 15.2 times more likely to suffer electrical events than patients without inducible vt. no proportional-hazards model excluding inducible vt was as good a predictor of electrical events as was inducible vt alone. conclusions. inducible vt at electrophysiological study was the single best predictor of spontaneous vt and sudden death after myocardial infarction.
effects of retrovenous myocardial drug delivery after coronary artery occlusion in sheep. retrovenous (rv) myocardial delivery of blood and drugs into the coronary sinus (cs) through a 3 lumen balloon catheter was evaluated in sheep (no coronary collaterals) for protection from ventricular fibrillation (vf) during coronary artery occlusion. the balloon was asynchronously inflated (cs occlusion) for 5 sec and then deflated for 5 sec with 1 cc/sec of flow. the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded with inflation of a percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography balloon and therapy started immediately. in a control group (no therapy, n = 4) all developed vf by 30 min after coronary artery occlusion. the drugs lidocaine (l), esmolol (e), adenosine (a), and deferoxamine (d) were evaluated for effects on eliminating developing vf with intravenous (i.v.) administration compared with rv administration with venous blood (vb) or arterial blood (ab). the percent survival after ca occlusion (no vf) was: l i.v., 0%; l rv with vb, 43%; l rv with ab, 17%; e i.v., 50%; e rv with vb, 70%; a. i.v., 29%; a rv with vb, 88%; d i.v., 17%; and d rv with ab, 80%. there was a trend toward lower myocardial necrosis (seen by tetrazolium stain and/or light microscopy) in the rv survivors (especially with vb) compared with the group i.v. survivors. these data suggest that rv antiarrhythmic drug delivery is a feasible alternative to i.v. administration during ca occlusion.
rice-based oral electrolyte solutions for the management of infantile diarrhea background. in infants the treatment of acute diarrhea with glucose-based solutions results in rehydration but does not reduce the severity of diarrhea. oral rehydration with solutions based on rice powder may reduce stool output as well as restore fluid volume. methods. we designed a prospective, randomized, double-blind study to evaluate the efficacy of two rice-based rehydration solutions and a conventional glucose-based solution. solution a contained only rice-syrup solids, solution b contained rice-syrup solids and casein hydrolysate, and solution c, the glucose-based solution, served as control. the study subjects were 86 mildly to moderately dehydrated infant boys, 3 to 18 months old, who were admitted to a children's hospital with acute diarrhea. we measured fluid intake, fecal and urine output, and absorption and retention of fluid, sodium, and potassium at intervals for 48 hours in all 86 infants. results. the mean (+/- se) fecal output was significantly lower in the infants given solution a (group a infants) than in the infants given solution c (group c) (29 +/- 4 vs. 46 +/- 7 ml per kilogram of body weight, p less than 0.05) during the first six hours of therapy. the infants in group a also had greater fluid absorption (221 +/- 16 vs. 167 +/- 9 ml per kilogram, p less than 0.05) over the entire 48 hours of therapy and greater potassium absorption (1.6 +/- 0.2 vs. 0.6 +/- 0.1 mmol per kilogram, p less than 0.05) during the first six hours than the infants in group c. solution b offered no advantages over solution a. conclusions. solutions containing rice-syrup solids were effective in the rehydration of infants with acute diarrhea. they decreased stool output and promoted greater absorption and retention of fluid and electrolytes than did a glucose-based solution.
brain imaging abnormalities in mental disorders of late life. psychiatric inpatients with dementia (n = 61) or depression (n = 67) in late life were 2.6 times more likely to manifest magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities of the brain than were elderly controls (n = 44). controlling for the effects of age and gender, demented patients were distinguishable from controls by an increased prevalence of cortical atrophy and infarction, while depressed patients exhibited an increased prevalence of cortical infarctions and leukoencephalopathy. patients with dementia were distinguishable from those with major depression by an increased prevalence of cortical atrophy. these results indicate that major depression in late life, like dementia, is associated with a remarkable increase in overt pathologic changes in the brain.
lung cancer risk associated with cancer in relatives. family history data from an incident case-control study of lung cancer conducted in the texas gulf coast region between 1976 and 1980 were analyzed to evaluate the contribution of cancer in first-degree relatives to lung cancer risk. odds ratios (or) increased slightly as the number of relatives with any cancer increased (reaching 1.5 with 4 or more relatives with cancer). risks were higher for tobacco-related cancers (or = 1.5 for 2 or more relatives with these tumors) and greatest for first-degree relatives with lung cancer (or = 2.8 for lung cancer in 2 or more relatives). for cases of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of the lung, risks with 3 or more relatives with any cancer were increased 2-fold (or = 1.8 and 1.9 respectively), and a significantly elevated risk was found for having a first-degree relative with lung cancer for each histologic type (ors from 1.7-2.1). having a spouse with lung cancer increased lung cancer risk (or = 2.5), and cases with lung cancer reported in a first-degree relative were diagnosed at an earlier age, as were case siblings with lung cancer.
functional comparison between double and triple ileal loop pouches. ileal pouch function in 35 patients operated upon by the same surgeon were compared. seventeen of the patients had a double loop (j) ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (ipaa) and 18 a triple loop (s) pouch. the patients were examined a mean of 27.9 months and 5.1 months, respectively, after ileostomy closure. ten of the s-pouch patients were evaluated more than 6 months (s greater than 6 months), mean 9.1 after ileostomy closure. there were no differences in the mean maximum resting pressures or maximum squeeze pressures between the groups. the incidence of daytime and nocturnal leakage was lower in the s-pouch group, 22 and 29 percent, than in the j group 29, and 53 percent. though the mean maximum tolerated volume (mtv) of the s-pouch group was greater than the j group, the difference was not statistically significant. the difference in the mean compliance between the j- and s-pouch groups and the j and s greater than 6 months group was statistically significant (p less than 0.01) and (p less than 0.008). all the patients could evacuate spontaneously. the difference in the 24-hour frequency of defecation between the s greater than 6 months and j group was significant (p less than 0.05), but not between the s and j groups. the median frequency of nocturnal defecation between the s greater than 6 months and j pouch groups was significant (p less than 0.005), but not between the s and j groups. the triple loop s-pouches were more compliant than the j-pouches and had a better functional result as shown by a lower incidence of nocturnal leakage, and a lower frequency of defecation during the day and night.
the role of bacteria in pigment gallstone disease. one hundred ten of nine hundred sixty consecutive patients who underwent surgery for gallstones (gs) had pigment stones (ps) (11.45%). fifty brown pss contained calcium bilirubinate, small amounts of cholesterol, and always calcium palmitate, were usually found in the common duct (96%), and were almost always associated with bile infection (98%) and diffuse erosion of the biliary mucosa. fifty-one black pss contained bilirubin polymers, calcium carbonate, and/or phosphate, seldom cholesterol, and never evident amounts of calcium palmitate, were mostly found in the gallbladder, and were associated with hemolysis or liver damage and with hyperplastic cholecystosis. bile infection was found in 19.6% of cases, but bacteria were never found in the center of black pss by scanning electron microscopy. nine additional patients (8.2% of pss, 0.9% of gss) had concomitant black and brown pss that were mostly found in the common duct and were always associated with bile infection. it is suggested that, even if pss with concomitant black and brown material can be found, black and brown pss greatly differ not only in pathogenesis but also in clinical behavior and treatment. in particular bacterial infection is important only in the pathogenesis of brown pss while it plays no role in the initial formation of cholesterol, mixed or black gss.
pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis. presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. a 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever, hyponatremia, and mononeuritis multiplex. inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established. the absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy. autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature. an early diagnosis of mae in the setting of fever and siadh may be possible via transbronchial biopsy.
penetration of the pericardium by a gastric ulcer--survival after pericardiocentesis. elderly patients often have unusual manifestations of common illnesses. we describe a geriatric patient having a pneumopericardium from pericardial penetration by a gastric ulcer. benign gastric ulceration causing perforation of the pericardium or other cardiac structures was recognized as early as 1854; however, until 1964, the condition was invariably fatal. our patient survived the episode after early pericardiocentesis and medical treatment. aspects of this uncommon clinical entity and a brief review of the literature are described.
an overview of randomized trials of sodium reduction and blood pressure to test for effects on systolic and diastolic blood pressure and to provide precise estimates of their magnitude, we conducted an overview of randomized clinical trials that aimed to reduce the intake of sodium in human subjects. we excluded from pooled analyses trials with confounded designs, those that compared intake levels beyond the usual range in the population, and those without published reports. two reviewers abstracted information in duplicate and differences were reconciled. twenty-three trials with outcome data from an aggregate of 1,536 subjects were included. data were pooled both separately for hypertensive and normotensive subjects and for all trials combined. with the use of sample size weighting, blood pressure reductions (net of controls) were 4.9 +/- 1.3/2.6 +/- 0.8 mm hg (systolic and diastolic, respectively, with 95% confidence limits) in hypertensive subjects and 1.7 +/- 1.0/1.0 +/- 0.7 mm hg in normotensive subjects. the combined blood pressure reductions were 2.9 +/- 0.8/1.6 +/- 0.5 mm hg. these changes were associated with mean reduction of urinary sodium excretion ranging from 16 to 171 mmol/24 hr for individual trials. a dose-response relation across trials was found, both in normotensive and in hypertensive subjects. these results indicate that sodium reduction lowers mean blood pressure in both hypertensive and normotensive individuals for periods of at least several months. the findings are highly consistent with results of observational epidemiological studies and have implications for preventive strategies of blood pressure control.
the effect of cesarean delivery on birth outcome in very low birth weight infants. national institute of child health and human development neonatal research network. to determine whether cesarean delivery is associated with a better outcome than vaginal delivery for infants weighing less than 1500 g (very low birth weight), we examined neonatal mortality and the incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) in 1765 very low birth weight inborn infants admitted to seven neonatal intensive care centers. the cesarean rate was 32.5% for infants weighing 501-750 g and 52.4% for infants weighing 751-1000 g. the neonatal death rate was 53.1% for infants weighing 501-750 g delivered by cesarean, compared with 64.3% for vaginally born infants (p = .046). however, for infants weighing 1001-1250 g, the neonatal death rate for infants delivered by cesarean was 14.4%, compared with 7.8% for infants born vaginally (p = .02). the incidence of ivh was significantly lower in infants born by cesarean than in those born vaginally only in the 1251-1500-g birth weight interval (11.8 versus 18.9%; p = .03). compared with women delivering vaginally, those delivered by cesarean were more likely to attain a higher mean gestation, to have preeclampsia, and to have a breech presentation, and less likely to be in labor. after adjusting by logistic regression for gestational age, preeclampsia, breech presentation, presence or absence of labor, and for center effects, the odds ratio for neonatal death was 1.00 (95% confidence interval 0.71-1.41); for ivh, the odds ratio was 0.85 (95% confidence interval 0.61-1.19). these data suggest that after accounting for certain maternal and fetal factors, cesarean delivery is not associated with a lower risk of either mortality or ivh.
factors associated with soft- and hard-tissue compromise of endosseous implants. this prospective analysis identifies factors associated with endosseous implant removal as well as factors associated with implant morbidity resulting in nonscheduled patient visits. treatment of the latter conditions is discussed. the most important factors identified for implant success were surgery without compromise in technique, placing implants into sound bone, avoiding thin bone or implant dehiscence at the time of implant placement, avoiding premature implant exposure during the healing period, establishing a balanced restoration, and insuring appropriate follow-up hygiene care. in the posterior mandible, the presence of keratinized gingiva was strongly correlated with optimal soft- and hard-tissue health.
high cholestanol and low campesterol-to-sitosterol ratio in serum of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis before liver transplantation. serum levels of cholesterol precursors (squalene, delta 8-cholestanol, desmosterol and lathosterol), plant sterols (campesterol and sitosterol), cholestanol and cholestanol/noncholesterol sterol ratios were related to liver damage and liver transplantation indications in healthy controls (n = 26) and in 31 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis divided into group i (s-bilirubin less than 21 mumol/l; n = 14), group ii (s-bilirubin 21 to 108 mumol/l; n = 7) and group iii (elected for liver transplantation; s-bilirubin 109 to 520 mumol/l; n = 10). the mean serum respective lathosterol levels in controls and in group i were three and two times higher than those in groups ii and iii, respectively. the plant sterol contents were higher in group ii than in groups i and iii and the campesterol/sitosterol ratios were lowest in group iii. the serum cholestanol levels were high even in group i (i.e., in patients without icterus) and increased progressively to group iii, up to 6 and 13 times those in group i and the control group, respectively. the cholestanol/noncholesterol sterol ratios increased progressively from the controls to groups i, ii and iii. the serum cholestanol levels were positively related to serum bilirubin levels in all primary biliary cirrhosis patients (n = 31, r = 0.906) and to the plant sterol levels in the control group and group i, but significantly negatively in group iii. the cholestanol vs. precursor sterol correlations were negative in most cases.
retinopathy of prematurity in infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease. we undertook a study of premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease to determine whether these infants develop retinopathy of prematurity despite a persistent hypoxemic state. using the computerized registry of the neonatal intensive care unit of vanderbilt university medical center, nashville, tenn, we identified six premature infants (less than 37 weeks' gestational age, with birth weights of 1100 to 2050 g) with cyanotic congenital heart disease who survived the neonatal period and underwent ophthalmologic evaluation. review of their charts revealed that three of six infants developed retinopathy of prematurity (two had grade 1 and one had grade 3 disease), but none required treatment. our data support the findings of other investigators that elevated arterial oxygen tension is not the sole factor leading to the development of retinopathy of prematurity. premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease can develop retinopathy of prematurity despite persistent hypoxemia. cyanotic premature infants should be screened for retinopathy of prematurity with the same thoroughness as other premature infants.
pancreatic ischaemia in experimental acute pancreatitis: mechanism, significance and therapy. much clinical and experimental evidence suggests that pancreatic ischaemia in the early phase of acute pancreatitis is important in the development of pancreatic necrosis. while depletion of intravascular volume has often been assumed to be the main circulatory defect, an additional disturbance of pancreatic microcirculation has been demonstrated experimentally. possible contributory mechanisms include chemical-induced vasoconstriction, direct injury of vessel wall, intravascular coagulation and increased endothelial permeability resulting in pancreatic oedema, haemoconcentration and impaired venous drainage. pancreatic ischaemia as a consequence of these local effects seems to be responsible for the transition of mild pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis. in experimental models the beneficial effect of various drugs and of sympathetic blockade has been ascribed to an improvement in pancreatic perfusion. although effective volume therapy is generally accepted as the mainstay of conservative treatment in acute pancreatitis, the efficacy of different fluid preparations is still controversial, and simple fluid resuscitation has not been shown to prevent the development of parenchymal necrosis. the specific impairment of pancreatic microcirculation cannot be prevented merely by replenishment of intravascular volume with crystalloids, albumin or plasma despite normalization of macrohaemodynamics. in contrast, partial replacement of blood by dextran preparations has been shown to increase pancreatic perfusion by improving blood fluidity. isovolaemic haemodilution in conjunction with conventional fluid therapy may provide a new and effective means of protecting the pancreas from secondary injury due to the early ischaemic phase of acute pancreatitis.
imidazole salicylate versus piroxicam in the treatment of arthrosis in elderly patients. a double-blind clinical and endoscopic trial. the clinical efficacy and gastroduodenal tolerability of imidazole salicylate (imidazole 2-hydroxybenzoate, itf 182), a new synthetic drug with an anti-inflammatory action, was evaluated endoscopically in comparison with those of piroxicam in elderly patients suffering from osteoarthrosis. of the 41 patients entering the trial, only 38 completed the protocol (6 men and 32 women; mean age, 71; range, 65-80 years). after upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for the purpose of excluding gastric and duodenal mucosal lesions, the patients were allocated at random, according to a double-blind, double-dummy protocol, to treatment either with imidazole salicylate 750 mg three times daily or with piroxicam 20 mg once daily for a period of 4 weeks. imidazole salicylate proved active in controlling a number of the pain symptoms caused by arthrosis, although its efficacy was inferior to that of piroxicam. grade 2 gastric mucosal lesions were detected in 1 of 20 patients (5%) treated with imidazole salicylate; lesions corresponding to grades 2, 3, and 4 were found in 6 of 18 (33%) of those treated with piroxicam (p = .034). painful dyspepsia was reported by 15% of the patients in the imidazole salicylate group and by 28% of those in the piroxicam group. on the basis of these results and under the experimental conditions adopted in this trial, the authors concluded that imidazole salicylate is characterized by good gastric tolerability and can thus be used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases in the elderly.
right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding. serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding. three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow. it is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding.
successful hyperlipemic pregnancy. women with hypertriglyceridemia are prone to gestational pancreatitis, a condition carrying substantial maternal and fetal risk. we describe a 33-year-old woman with familial hypertriglyceridemia who had recurrent hyperlipidemic abdominal crises during previous pregnancies despite dietary fat restrictions. a fifth pregnancy was carried to term without complications after aggressive dietary therapy and intermittent intravenous feeding, administered whenever her triglyceride levels exceeded an arbitrarily selected threshold concentration of 28 mmol/l. the efficacy of this approach may be explained by the published observation that low-fat (high-carbohydrate) isocaloric diets elevate serum triglyceride levels by the oral, but not the intravenous, route in normal individuals. reduction of this patient's serum triglyceride concentrations by interrupting oral intake and administering intravenous glucose appeared to prevent late-pregnancy pancreatitis and culminated in uncomplicated full-term delivery.
elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels in patients with active multiple sclerosis. the level of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sil-2r) was quantitated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum and cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 24 patients with multiple sclerosis and 10 patients with other neurological disorders in whom immunological mechanisms are unlikely to participate. the sil-2r level in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with multiple sclerosis in relapse was significantly higher compared with patients with multiple sclerosis in remission and with controls. the sil-2r level, especially in the cerebrospinal fluid, showed higher sensitivity and specificity than other clinical parameters including the cerebrospinal fluid igg ratio, peripheral lymphocyte cd4/cd8 ratio, cerebrospinal fluid myelin basic protein and oligoclonal bands. our data suggest that measurement of the sil-2r level may be useful in evaluating disease activity in patients with multiple sclerosis.
gastrointestinal pathology in adult iron overdose. the gastrointestinal effects of iron overdose have been described in children. they may occur acutely, ranging in severity from mucosal injury to complete infarction, or several weeks later, as obstruction due to stricture formation. they typically occur in the stomach or proximal small bowel. we describe an adult example of both, each occurring in the distal portion of the small intestine. both patients had ingested enteric-coated iron preparations and both experienced significant, protracted abdominal pain. thus adults as well as children are at risk for severe gastrointestinal complications after iron overdose. significant protracted abdominal pain should alert the clinician of its possibility. damage to distal areas of the bowel can occur with complete sparing of proximal portions particularly if the iron is an enteric-coated preparation.
ten years of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: neurodevelopmental outcome. cf the 87 survivors of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation over a 10-year period, 67 participated in a follow-up study which included neurologic examination (n = 67), cognitive testing (n = 67), and audiologic assessment (n = 33). matched control subjects for those older than 5 years were also evaluated. outcome was defined as normal for cognitive scores greater than or equal to 85 and normal neurologic examination results, suspect for cognitive scores 70 through 84 or nonfocal neurologic findings such as hypertonia/hypotonia, and abnormal for cognitive scores less than 70 or abnormal neurologic examination results. of the 10 school-aged children studied, 9 were normal and there were no differences in mean cognitive scores between subjects and controls (iq subjects = 109 +/- 12 [sd], iq controls = 107 +/- 13). for preschoolers aged 2.7 through 4.11 years, the mean cognitive score was 91 +/- 11 and 7 (70%) were normal. for infants 6 through 30 months, the mean cognitive score was 101 +/- 22 and 27 (57%) were normal. a total of 7 children (21% of those studied) had abnormal audiologic assessments. three children demonstrated mild high-frequency and 4 moderately severe high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss which was bilateral in 3 and of undetermined laterality in 1. abnormal neurodevelopmental outcome was significantly associated with cerebral infarction and chronic lung disease. outcome was not related to demographic or perinatal variables, illness severity prior to extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, or underlying diagnosis. neurodevelopmental outcome among survivors of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in this series is consistent with previous reports of morbidity among neonates with severe respiratory failure treated conventionally.
hematoporphyrin photodynamic therapy: is there truly a future in head and neck oncology? reflections on a 5-year experience. photodynamic therapy, which consists of the selective destruction of tumors using a combination of a photosensitizer administered systemically (dihematoporphyrin ether) and an argon dye-pumped laser, has provoked profound interest amongst oncologists and has particularly titillated head and neck oncologists with its potential. unfortunately, no multi-institutional trials for head and neck tumors have been introduced, and the literature is replete with anecdotal reports from individual researchers on the management of advanced cancers for palliation, superficial early cancers, and field cancerization of the mucosa ("condemned mucosa"). a personal 5-year experience with 41 head and neck cancers was reviewed, as was the current literature. an attempt was made to place in perspective the true role and future direction of this technology.
caesarean section in a patient with haemoglobin sc disease and a phaeochromocytoma. the anaesthetic management of a patient with haemoglobin sc disease for lower segment caesarean section and excision of a phaeochromocytoma is described. the patient was given a general anaesthetic for the surgical procedure after exchange transfusion had achieved an haemoglobin a concentration of greater than 50%. a live infant was delivered and a suprarenal phaeochromocytoma was excised during a 6.5 hour procedure. the patient's postoperative recovery was uneventful.
preoperative radiotherapy in operable rectal cancer. the effect of preoperative radiotherapy (31.5 gy in 3.5 weeks) in operable rectal cancer was examined with respect to resectability and prognosis after two surgical procedures, abdominoperineal resection, or low anterior resection. preoperative radiation did not influence the surgeon's selection of low anterior resection, which was similar (40 percent) in each group. radiation improved five-year survival probability and decreased the incidence of local recurrence significantly after low anterior resection. in contrast, no improvement of treatment results was found in patients treated by abdominoperineal resection after radiotherapy.
unfavorable outcome following early surgical repair of ruptured cerebral aneurysms--a critical review of 238 patients. among 238 consecutive patients admitted early with ruptured cerebral aneurysms, surgical repair within 48-72 hours was feasible in 200 cases. unfavorable outcomes among the latter 200 patients are analyzed and discussed in this paper. preoperatively, 148 patients were in hunt and hess grades i-iii, 33 were in grade iv, and 19 in grade v. after clipping of the aneurysm, all patients received a regimen of topical intracisternal and intravenous/peroral medication with the calcium antagonist nimodipine. the overall rate of unfavorable outcomes was 25%, ie, outcome with moderate or severe deficit or lethal outcome. the reasons for unfavorable outcomes among these 49 patients were the devastating effect of the bleed (severe subarachnoid hemorrhage or additional intracerebral hemorrhage) in 31 patients (15% of the 200 patients), a surgical complication in 11 (5.5%), preoperative rebleeding in three (1.5%), delayed ischemia from vasospasm in one (0.5%), and various others in three further patients (1.5%). unfavorable outcome occurred in 11% of patients with preoperative grades i-iii, in 52% of patients with grade iv, and in 16 of 19 patients with grade v. among the 141 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage but not intracerebral or intraventricular hematoma, 16 made an unfavorable outcome, ie, 11% versus 56% among patients with intracerebral hematoma/intraventricular hematoma on preoperative computed tomography scan. the present data seem to speak in favor of early surgery. since half of the patients with intracerebral hematoma and poor outcome had suffered previous warning leaks, it appears to be a continuing challenge to diagnose warning leaks before a massive hemorrhage occurs.
a controlled clinical trial to assess the effect of a calcium channel blocker on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis to determine whether calcium channel blockers influence the progression of coronary atherosclerosis, 383 patients age 65 years or less with 5-75% stenoses in at least four coronary artery segments were selected at random within 1 month of coronary arteriography to participate in double-blind therapy with a placebo or nicardipine 30 mg three times daily. coronary events (5 deaths, 22 myocardial infarctions, and 28 unstable anginas) occurred in 28 of 192 nicardipine patients and 23 of 191 placebo patients (p = ns). at 24 months coronary arteriography was repeated in 335 patients. progression, defined as a 10% or more worsening in diameter stenosis, measured quantitatively, was found in 147 of 1,153 lesions (12.7%) in 168 nicardipine patients and in 170 of 1,170 lesions (14.5%) in 167 placebo patients (p = ns). ninety-two nicardipine patients (55%) and 95 placebo patients (57%) had progression at one or more sites (p = ns). regression, that is, an improvement by 10% or more in diameter stenosis, was seen in 140 of 2,323 lesions (6.0%) overall, with no significant intergroup difference. among the 217 patients with 411 stenoses of 20% or less in the first study, such minimal lesions progressed in only 15 of 99 nicardipine patients compared with 32 of 118 placebo patients (15% versus 27%, p = 0.046). in this subgroup, 16 of 178 minimal lesions in nicardipine patients and 38 of 233 minimal lesions in placebo patients progressed (p = 0.038). by stepwise logistic-regression analysis, baseline systolic blood pressure (p = 0.04) and the change in systolic blood pressure between baseline and 6 months (p = 0.002) correlated with progression of minimal lesions. this suggested blood pressure reduction may account for the beneficial action of nicardipine. these results suggested nicardipine has no effect on advanced coronary atherosclerosis but may retard the progression of minimal lesions.
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia, fatigue, rash, fever, edema, alopecia, arthralgias, diminished joint motion, skin tightening, muscle cramping, and distal paresthesias. three had shortness of breath, and one had pulmonary hypertension. laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia, leukocytosis, thrombocytosis, raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and elevated serum levels of aldolase, lactate dehydrogenase, and liver enzymes. of 4 chest radiographs, 3 were abnormal. of 5 skin and muscle biopsies, 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis, subcutis, and fascia. eosinophils were often present, but vasculitis was absent. muscle inflammation was minimal. we conclude that the "eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome" is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis.
cold-knife and laser conization for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. in a 5-year study, 425 women had conization performed for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) i, ii or iii. conization was performed only in cases of positive endocervical curettage or when colposcopy was inconclusive. in all other cases, local destruction was the operation of choice. in the early years of the study, conization was done by the cold-knife method (n = 201), whereas co2 laser was used in the latter part of the study (n = 224). success and complication rates were the same for the two methods. abnormal cytology after conization was found in a total of 53 cases (12.5%), but a histologic confirmation of residual or recurrent cin was made in only 27 women (6.4%). this corresponds to a success rate of 92% after cold-knife and 95% after laser conization. the cin grading of the residual or recurrent cin was similar to or less than the cin diagnosis of the cone. because our success rate was comparable to that of other series with much less strict referral criteria, our policy seems adequate.
a case of severe pancytopenia caused by ibuprofen. we here present the case of a patient with severe neutropenia, haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopenia associated with long-term use of ibuprofen. the blood parameters rapidly normalized when the drug was discontinued, and no further treatment, except for a short course of antibiotics, was required.
risk for colon adenomas in patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps objective: to determine whether hyperplastic polyps found in the rectosigmoid area of the colon are associated with proximal adenomas, and to judge whether patients with distal hyperplastic polyps found during sigmoidoscopy might benefit from full colonoscopy. design: data on patients having colonoscopy collected prospectively according to a set protocol. the size and location of all polyps were noted, and all polyps were biopsied. setting: two university hospitals. patients: one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy between 31 december 1987 and 31 august 1989. results: of the 970 patients who met eligibility requirements, 274 (28.3%) had adenomas and 108 (11.1%) had hyperplastic polyps. the proportion of patients with distal hyperplastic polyps and proximal adenomas (31.9%) was similar to the proportion of those without distal hyperplastic polyps (23.0%) (crude odds ratio, 1.57; 95% ci, 0.77 to 3.06). after adjusting for age and sex, the results were unchanged (adjusted odds ratio, 1.53; ci, 0.82 to 2.88). patients with distal adenomas, on the other hand, were three times more likely to have proximal adenomas than those without distal adenomas (adjusted odds ratio, 3.42; ci, 1.99 to 5.88). conclusions: distal hyperplastic polyps are not strong predictors of risk for proximal adenomas. based on the magnitude of the risk difference, we do not believe that finding a hyperplastic polyp during sigmoidoscopy justifies doing a full colonoscopy to search for proximal adenomas. because rectosigmoid adenomas are associated with proximal adenomas, however, small polyps seen during sigmoidoscopy should be biopsied to determine their type. colonoscopy should be reserved for patients who are proved to have adenomas.
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia. not just a disease of children. rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community. we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever (arf) in west virginia. this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years. in contrast to the other reports, nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults, more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf. in these adults with recurrences, none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation. carditis was present in seven adults, two without a history of carditis. arthritis was present in all adult patients. these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood. furthermore, our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf, especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection.
urothelial grafts in mice. mouse bladder epithelium has been successfully transplanted to the bladders of syngeneic mice and has survived for at least twenty weeks. the fate of the transplanted tissue was followed using a fluorescein label. the recipient bladders were prepared by stripping the urothelium either by a surgical or a chemical method. the possibility of adopting a comparable technique for the treatment of early bladder cancer in man is discussed.
hemoglobin montreal: a new variant with an extended beta chain due to a deletion of asp, gly, leu at positions 73, 74, and 75, and an insertion of ala, arg, cys, gln at the same location. the unstable hemoglobin montreal with a deletion of three amino acid residues (asp, gly, leu) at positions 73, 74, and 75 of the beta chain and an insertion of four residues (ala, arg, cys, gln) at the same location was observed in a 7-year-old canadian boy suffering from a moderate hemolytic anemia. the introduction of an extra amino acid residue and of other changes in the crevice where the heme group is located is the likely cause of the instability of this hemoglobin variant. the above listed changes were detected through analyses of tryptic peptides of the beta-montreal chain, sequencing of amplified dna, and hybridization of amplified dna with appropriate, 32p-labeled, oligonucleotide probes. it is suggested that a mispairing involving the agtg sequences at codons 66 and 67 and at codons 72 and 73 of the normal beta gene caused a repetition of a 16-bp segment, while a deletion of 10 nucleotides due to recombination or slippage followed by a second short deletion during dna repair resulted in the modified sequence of the beta-montreal gene.
the children's orientation and amnesia test: relationship to severity of acute head injury and to recovery of memory. the children's orientation and amnesia test (coat) was developed to assess cognition serially during the early stage of recovery from traumatic brain injury in children and adolescents. the norms for the coat, which is composed of 16 items evaluating general orientation, temporal orientation, and memory, were defined from data obtained from 146 children aged 3 to 15 years. in 37 patients with head injuries, the duration of posttraumatic amnesia, as indicated by the number of days coat scores were in the impaired range, was significantly related to both verbal and nonverbal memory at the baseline and 6 and 12 months after injury. coat scores were a better predictor of verbal and nonverbal memory performance than the glasgow coma scale score at 6 and 12 months after the injury. this study shows that the coat has adequate reliability and validity as a measure of the duration of posttraumatic amnesia in children and adolescents.
proton magnetic resonance of exercise-induced water changes in gastrocnemius muscle. exercise-induced water concentration changes have been determined in the medial gastrocnemius muscle noninvasively with image-guided in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (mrs). these measurements were performed on seven normal male volunteers during and after isometric and ischemic-isometric exercise at 5, 10, and 20% maximum voluntary contraction (mvc). the observed water flux changes during different phases of exercise have been interpreted in terms of fluid transfer between the vasculature and exercising muscle. good correlation between individual mvc and changes in water fluxes and the decay of water content was observed after 20% mvc exercise level. mrs results have been found to be consistent with those reported in the literature based on invasive biopsy techniques.
biologically inert synthetic dural substitutes. appraisal of a medical-grade aliphatic polyurethane and a polysiloxane-carbonate block copolymer. two types of artificial membranes, a medical-grade aliphatic polyurethane and a polysiloxane-carbonate block copolymer, were tested as substitutes for dura in 24 and 12 rabbits, respectively. the films were placed either epidurally, subdurally, or as dural grafts in equal subgroups of animals. the postoperative course was uneventful with no manifestations of convulsive disorder or cerebrospinal fluid leak. the animals were sacrificed 3, 6, or 9 months after implantation of the artificial membranes. both types of artificial membranes were easily removed from the underlying nervous and the other surrounding tissues. the histological examination failed to reveal adhesions, neomembrane formations, or any type of foreign body reactions to the polyurethane film. the implantation of the polysiloxane-carbonate film caused no reaction when it was applied epidurally. as a dural graft, the polysiloxane-carbonate copolymer induced the formation of a thin neomembrane of one to two layers of fibroblasts which formed a watertight seal of the dural defect. a similar thin neomembrane was found to encase this artificial membrane in the group of animals in which it was implanted subdurally. there was no foreign body reaction to the polysiloxane-carbonate film. the authors conclude that these materials hold promise as dural substitutes or in the prevention of spinal dural scarring, and should be evaluated clinically.
traffic of peripheral b and t lymphocytes to hyperplastic, preneoplastic thymuses of akr mice. akr mice develop hyperplasia of the thymus before the development of retrovirus-associated lymphoma at that site. this hyperplasia, first detectable in akr/j mice by 4 weeks of age and in akr/c mice by 4 to 5 months of age, is characterized by an enlarged thymic medulla that contains t and b lymphocytes. in contrast to the general population of thymocytes, most of these t and b lymphocytes have a mature immunophenotype that includes expression of high levels of the mel-14-defined (gp90) 'homing receptor' for peripheral lymph node high endothelial venules. in vivo homing studies reveal a marked increase in traffic of peripheral lymphocytes (t more than b) to the hyperplastic thymuses of old akr mice as compared to histologically normal thymuses of age-matched balb/c and c57bl/ka mice or young akr mice. these changes correlate chronologically with changes in retrovirus antigen expression in akr thymuses and suggest a role for the traffic of lymphocytes from the periphery to the thymus in response to local antigenic stimulation in the pathogenesis of thymic hyperplasia in akr mice.
effects of prostaglandin e1 in postoperative surgical patients with circulatory deficiency. hemodynamic and oxygen transport effects of pge1 were observed in the early postoperative period before development of ards in two series of general surgical patients with circulatory deficiencies. the first was a series of 19 studies in 18 patients, the second was a placebo-controlled series of 20 patients (ten received pge1 and ten received a placebo). in the first series, pge1 was given as a trial of therapy after fluid therapy to pulmonary wedge pressures greater than 15 mm hg failed to correct satisfactorily circulatory and metabolic functions. there were two deaths in the placebo group and none in the pge1 group. previous studies indicated that pge1 disaggregates platelets and reduces local vasoconstriction in pulmonary circulation; this study suggests that pge1 improves tissue perfusion of systemic circulation. after fluid therapy to paop greater than 15 mm hg fails to restore circulatory function to optimal values. pge1 should be considered as ancillary therapy in critically ill postoperative patients.
malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy. of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon, 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy (31 patients, group i) or by radical segmental resection (18 patients, group ii) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure. the operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group i and 11 per cent in group ii (not a statistically significant difference). however, substantial differences were found for major morbidity (6 versus 44 per cent in groups i and ii respectively; p less than 0.01) and mean length of hospital stay (17 days in group i versus 35 days in group ii; p less than 0.05). all three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma. six patients (19 per cent) in group i required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period. however, subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients. it is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results.
decline in the prevalence of childhood deafness in the jewish population of jerusalem: ethnic and genetic aspects. a longitudinal study was performed on 147 jewish children with bilaterally sensorineural hearing loss of moderately severe to profound degree, born in jerusalem during the eighteen years 1968-85. the prevalence rate of these children declined during the years 1977-85, and at the same time the rate of consanguinity of their parents decreased; this decline was more evident in the genetic group among children with non-ashkenazi ethnic origin. no such decline was found among the ashkenazi children and no consanguinity among parents of these children was recorded. our study supports the assumption that restriction of consanguineous matings may affect the prevalence of genetic deafness in children in a well-defined population. we have tried to remain unbiased and concede certain shortcomings in our present study.
deleterious effects of criminal victimization on women's health and medical utilization. the long-term consequences of criminal victimization on physical health were examined among 390 adult women (74 nonvictims and 316 victims of crime). data included health status self-ratings and objective service utilization. findings indicated that severely victimized women, compared with nonvictims, reported more distress and less well-being, made physician visits twice as frequently in the index year, and had outpatient costs that were 2.5 times greater. criminal victimization severity was the most powerful predictor of physician visits and outpatient costs. utilization data across 5 years preceding and following crime were obtained from 15 rape victims, 26 physical assault victims, and 27 noncontact crime victims and were compared with five continuous years of utilization among 26 nonvictims. victims' physician visits increased 15% to 24% during the year of the crime compared with less than 2% change among nonvictims. we conclude that these long-term deleterious effects suggest that criminally victimized women's needs for medical treatment transcend the traditional focus on emergency care and forensic evaluation.
acetylsalicylic acid vs. metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis--a double-blind cross-over study. in a double blind cross-over study, 28 patients, 5 male and 23 female, aged 31 +/- 14 years, after a run-in period of 8 weeks, were treated for 3 months with acetylsalicylic acid and for another 3 months with metoprolol, both in a prophylactic mode. attack frequency was reduced significantly with both therapeutic regimens (asa p less than 0.001, metoprolol p less than 0.00005). reduction of attacks below 50% was seen with metoprolol in 14 cases, and with asa in three cases. even though asa was of statistically significant efficacy in migraine prophylaxis, it clearly is not the drug of first choice in migraine prophylaxis.
familial predisposition for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old. the parents of sixty-three patients who were less than twenty-one years old and who had operatively confirmed herniation of a lumbar disc were interviewed regarding a history of sever back pain, sciatica, and herniated disc, to determine whether aggregation of herniation of a lumbar disc occurs in families of patients in this young age-group. the parents of sixty-three additional patients who had a non-spinal orthopaedic diagnosis (control group) were matched for age and sex with the study group and were given the same interview. of the patients who had herniation of a lumbar disc and were less than twenty-one years old, 32 per cent had a positive family history for that lesion compared with 7 per cent of the control group. the relative risk of development of herniation of a lumbar disc before the age of twenty-one years is estimated to be approximately five times greater in patients who have a positive family history. the results indicate a familial basis for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old.
magnetic resonance imaging of experimental rat brain tumors: histopathological evaluation. using rg-c6 glioma-transplanted rats, we studied precontrast and postcontrast magnetic resonance imaging, extravasation of evans blue, and histology. in all rats, tumor was enhanced with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (gd-dtpa). the necrotic portion in the tumor, however, was not enhanced. hemorrhage and hydrocephalus were clearly visualized on both the precontrast and postcontrast images. blood-brain barrier-disrupted areas stained with evans blue and areas enhanced with gd-dtpa on magnetic resonance imaging were nearly consistent. it is suggested that the mechanism of brain tumor enhancement with gd-dtpa on magnetic resonance imaging is simply related to the degree of alteration of the blood-brain barrier. the gd-dtpa-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, even with low magnetic field, is useful for the evaluation of size, shape, and location of experimental rat brain tumors.
cardiac rhabdomyoma. rare cause of fetal death. two cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and fetal death associated with cardiac rhabdomyoma are reported. case 1 presented with fetal supraventricular tachycardia, and cardiac rhabdomyoma was accurately diagnosed by fetal echocardiography. autopsy revealed multiple rhabdomyomata involving the right atrial free wall, the sinoatrial node, and the left ventricle. the left circumflex coronary artery was extrinsically compressed by adjacent tumor tissue, causing left ventricular myocardial infarction. case 2 had a unique, pedunculated, ball-like rhabdomyoma that almost totally occluded the mitral orifice. the causes of fetal death in patients with cardiac rhabdomyoma are analyzed and the possibility of fetal surgical management is proposed.
a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy following intravenous antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis. one hundred thirty-six patients were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy (amoxicillin) versus placebo following successful intravenous (iv) antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis. no subjects were readmitted to the hospital for recurrent endometritis and there were no wound infections or recurrent fevers. minor side effects were seen in 10% of those taking amoxicillin and 14% of those taking placebo. compliance was fair; only 52% of those taking amoxicillin and 65% of those taking placebo completed therapy. the lack of infectious complications in this high-risk population suggests that oral antibiotic therapy is unnecessary after successful iv antibiotic therapy for endometritis.
ovarian neoplasms and the risk of adnexal torsion. previous reports examining adnexal torsion suggested that benign ovarian neoplasms are more likely to undergo torsion than malignant ovarian neoplasms. to our knowledge, this clinical observation has not been quantified. to examine this hypothesis, we reviewed our experience with ovarian neoplasms found at the time of surgery over a 10-year period. benign ovarian neoplasms had a 12.9-fold increased risk of undergoing adnexal torsion when compared with malignant ovarian neoplasms (95% confidence interval, 10.2 to 15.9). the histologic type of ovarian neoplasm does not appear to affect the rate of adnexal torsion. adnexal torsion rarely involves cancer.
effects of intravenous immunoglobulin on hemorrhage-induced alterations in plasma cell repertoires. hemorrhage produces decreases in serum immunoglobulin (ig) levels and alterations in the number and frequency of b cells producing antibodies against bacterial antigens. these abnormalities in immune response may contribute to the increased susceptibility to infection after injury and hemorrhage. to examine the relationship between serum ig levels and bacterial antigen-specific plasma cell numbers and frequencies after blood loss, we treated hemorrhaged mice with intravenous ig (ivig). hemorrhaged mice given ivig had increased total numbers of splenic plasma cells compared with normal or hemorrhaged, untreated mice. immunization with the bacterial polysaccharide antigen levan immediately after hemorrhage resulted in approximately 60% fewer levan-specific splenic plasma cells than those seen in normal unhemorrhaged mice. treatment of hemorrhaged mice with ivig did not correct the decrease in levan-specific plasma cells. these results demonstrate that hemorrhage-induced alterations in the numbers and frequencies of bacterial antigen-specific b cells are not related to changes in serum ig levels and cannot be corrected through administration of ivig.
morphological findings contributing to a failed fontan procedure. twelve-year experience. a group of 37 patients (age range, 3 months to 29 years) who died after the modified fontan procedure (within 2 months), representing 15% of the 245 patients undergoing this procedure from 1976 through 1988, was reviewed to determine the causes of death. the three morphological groups were 1) univentricular atrioventricular connection (n = 19), 2) tricuspid atresia (n = 9), and 3) other complex malformations (n = 9). subaortic stenosis was present in 15 patients (40%) in this group compared with 31 of 208 early survivors (15%) (p = 0.008). pulmonary artery banding, identified as a risk factor in our previous experience, was performed in 14 patients, nine of whom had subaortic stenosis. nine palliative procedures for subaortic stenosis were performed in eight patients--before the fontan procedure in three patients and concurrently with the fontan procedure in five patients. myocardial hypertrophy and signs of acute ischemic injury were common findings at autopsy (n = 25) and were particularly prominent in all patients with univentricular heart of left ventricular morphology associated with subaortic stenosis and previous pulmonary artery banding (n = 7). we conclude that the present majority of deaths occurring after the modified fontan procedure are myocardial in nature and attributable to advanced myocardial hypertrophy that is potentiated by previous pulmonary artery banding and subaortic stenosis.
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without hypertrophy: two families with myocardial disarray in the absence of increased myocardial mass two families are described in which individuals showed widespread myocardial disarray at histological examination, in the absence of macroscopic cardiac hypertrophy. in one family the clinical presentation was that of sudden unexpected cardiac death in four family members; members of the other family presented with electrocardiographic repolarisation changes and abnormalities of left ventricular diastolic function. the finding of myocardial disarray, the characteristic histological abnormality of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, in the absence of increased cardiac mass suggests a wider range of abnormality in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy than is currently recognised.
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis. in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis, we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin (piperacillin) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination. whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections, such as acute cholangitis, however, is still unclear. we, therefore, conducted a three center, prospective, randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis. during a 36 month period, 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin (n = 49) or ampicillin plus tobramycin (n = 47). the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters. the incidence of blood cultures with positive results (20 versus 21 per cent) and underlying malignant lesions (51 versus 62 per cent) was also similar between the two groups. the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups (69 versus 70 per cent). however, there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions (83 versus 59 per cent, p less than 0.01). no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity, but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities (2 versus 19 per cent, p less than 0.05). these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction.
evaluation of antral mast cells in nonulcer dyspepsia. two hundred twenty-five patients with the symptoms of nonulcer dyspepsia underwent clinical and endoscopic evaluation including histologic assessment of endoscopic biopsies. mast cells were counted after special staining with low ph alcian blue. of 225 patients, 31 (13%) were found to have 11 or greater mast cells per high-power field. endoscopic and routine histologic findings were similar between the subset of 31 patients with 11 or more mast cells and the entire group of 225. the 31 patients with increased antral mast cells had failed treatment with standard drug used for peptic ulcer disease. h1-antagonists improved symptoms in the majority of patients (79%) in whom we had adequate follow-up. patients with increased mast cells on antral biopsy appear to be subset of patients with nonulcer dyspepsia amenable specific treatment with h1-antagonists.
blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia associated with a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma. blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia is characterized by the presence of spasms of the orbicularis oculi (blepharospasm) and of the lower facial or oromandibular muscles. a patient with this syndrome is presented in which a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma appeared to act as a triggering mechanism for the development of this disorder. on the basis of this report, we recommend that physicians search for this tumor in patients with this disorder.
management of asymptomatic chronic aortic regurgitation with left ventricular dysfunction: a decision analysis study objective: to determine the optimal strategy for the timing of aortic valve replacement in patients with chronic, severe aortic regurgitation with left ventricular dysfunction. design: decision analysis comparing early surgery (timed at the onset of left ventricular dysfunction) with delayed surgery (timed at the onset of symptoms) using data from the literature and expert opinion for variables in a representative case scenario (40-year-old man with bicuspid aortic valve disease). setting: tertiary care center doing valve replacement surgery. measurements and main results: the early-surgery approach was preferred based on quality-adjusted life years. sensitivity analysis showed that the result was not affected by the following variables within their derived ranges: rate of symptom development after onset of left ventricular dysfunction for the delayed-surgery approach, perioperative mortality for both approaches, and occurrence of major nonfatal stroke or congestive heart failure for both approaches. although the decision was sensitive to the yearly postoperative mortality rates, the delayed-surgery operative mortality rate had to be almost as low as the early-surgery rate to change the preference to the delayed-surgery approach. the preference could also change if survival were much more important to the patient in the first five years than after five years or if the patient disliked living on anticoagulants enough to value a year on anticoagulants as worth only 80% of a year not on anticoagulants. conclusion: this decision analysis provides quantitative support for the impression that patients similar to the case scenario do better with surgery timed at the onset of ventricular dysfunction than with surgery delayed until symptoms develop. it thus supports the practice of following these patients noninvasively in order to time surgery.
angiographic localization of spinal cord blood supply and its relationship to postoperative paraplegia. forty-seven patients underwent selective catheterization of middle and lower thoracic intercostal and upper lumbar arteries to define the origin of the artery of adamkiewicz. one patient had significant atheroembolism, and a second had transient lower extremity paresthesias. no other complications occurred. the origin was found in 26 (55%), and 21 patients underwent thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with this knowledge. when the critical lumbar or intercostal artery could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis, all 12 patients could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis, all 12 patients survived, and one was paralyzed. however, if the aneurysm repair mandated a midgraft anastomosis to intercostal arteries critical to spinal cord perfusion, seven of nine patients either died or were paralyzed (p less than 0.05). in the group of 19 patients operated on in whom spinal cord blood supply was not identified three patients had a technically unsuccessful operation; two died, and one was paralyzed. twelve of 16 patients who had an adequate, but unsuccessful attempt at localization were treated by intercostal "neglect" and survived. late paresis developed in two patients, but they are walking now. one of the patients who died had multiple systems failure and awakened paraplegic. she had a patent, enlarged, thoracic radicular artery at t-5 which probably supplied to spinal cord and which was missed angiographically. paralysis was associated with aneurysm extent (group 2 and iii b, dissections vs group 1 & 3, p less than 0.05). selective intercostal angiography requires further refinement, but it is safe and offers the promise of understanding the mechanisms and risks of spinal cord complications after repair of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms.
cerebral infarction and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage. platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate and the release of thromboxane b2 were studied in 68 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage during the second week after the hemorrhage, when delayed ischemic deterioration most often occurs. follow-up computed tomographic scans were performed later than 1 month after subarachnoid hemorrhage to reveal permanent hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction. occurrence of hypodense lesions on the follow-up computed tomographic scan was significantly associated with the presence of delayed ischemic deterioration (did) (p less than 0.01). patients with subcortical or cortical cerebral infarctions due to did released more platelet thromboxane b2 than those with no evidence of a hypodense lesion on the computed tomographic scan (p less than 0.05). hypodense areas caused by an intracerebral hematoma or small, deep-seated infarcts due to did were not associated with significantly elevated release of thromboxane b2, but the lacunar type infarcts were associated with increased aggregation of platelets. the results suggest that augmented platelet function may be involved in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction due to did.
complications of percutaneous abdominal fine-needle biopsy. review. to determine whether the increasing use of percutaneous fine-needle biopsy of abdominal lesions is associated with an increase in serious complications, the author updated a literature search and evaluated a questionnaire (distributed among selected hospitals in the united states in 1986 and 1987) that followed up a questionnaire distributed in 1983. the updated literature review revealed a total of 24 deaths and 20 needle tract seedings. the updated questionnaire revealed five deaths after 16,381 biopsies (0.031%), whereas the previous questionnaire had shown four deaths after 63,108 biopsies (0.006%). two similar european questionnaires revealed mortality rates of 0.008% and 0.018%, respectively. of the total of 33 deaths, 21 involved biopsies of liver lesions; six involved pancreatic biopsies. seventeen of the 21 deaths after liver biopsies were secondary to hemorrhage; five of the six deaths after pancreatic biopsies were due to pancreatitis. of the 23 instances of needle tract seeding, 10 occurred after biopsies of pancreatic malignancies. the frequencies of needle tract seeding in the four questionnaires were 0.005%, 0.006%, 0.003%, and 0.009%, respectively. although infrequent, serious complications may be associated with this procedure. the author makes suggestions that may help minimize them.
melanoma in pregnancy. the clinical course of malignant melanoma in pregnancy has been a subject of controversy, but current evidence indicates that it is similar to the clinical course in non-pregnant patients. early detection and biopsy of localized disease is crucial because early treatment provides an excellent prognosis. surgical excision is the primary therapy for this disease. as the primary care provider for many women in the reproductive age group, obstetrician-gynecologists have an opportunity to detect these lesions at their earliest stages when they are amenable to cure. overall, maternal metastases to the fetus and placenta are very rare events and do not warrant elective termination based on the maternal diagnosis. however, a thorough examination of the infant and placenta should be done in all cases of melanoma complicating pregnancy. after treatment, long-term follow-up is recommended. since most recurrences develop within 3 years after the diagnosis, it remains prudent to recommend that these patients avoid a subsequent pregnancy during this interval.
psychophysiological stress testing in postinfarction patients. psychological correlates of cardiovascular arousal and abnormal cardiac responses. the psychophysiological responses to two mental stress tests (mental arithmetic and an interactive concentration task) were assessed in 168 unmedicated, male, postinfarction patients 36-69 years old. patients also completed a standard battery of psychological tests. psychophysiological responses were generally unrelated to age and education. comparison of patients scoring high (more than 75%) and low (less than 25%) relative to the normal population on psychological measures indicated that heart rate and blood pressure responses to mental stress tests were significantly greater in those reporting low than in those reporting high neuroticism. the study population was subsequently divided into high, medium, and low cardiovascular responders on the basis of rate-pressure product reactions to the two stress tests. the three cardiovascular response groups did not differ in age, interval between myocardial infarction and stress testing, ejection fraction, incidence of exercise-induced ischemia, or ischemic signs during holter monitoring. however, the high cardiovascular responders were more likely to manifest possible or definite electrocardiographic signs of ischemia or significant arrhythmia during mental stress testing than were the medium or low cardiovascular responders (50% versus 19.6% and 7%, respectively). high cardiovascular responders also reported lower levels of trait anxiety, neuroticism, psychophysiological symptoms, and depression.
the chest radiograph appearances seen following high dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation for resistant malignant lymphoma. the objective of this study was to review and analyse the chest radiograph (cxr) appearances seen following high dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation (abmt), and to identify any characteristic patterns. thirty-one patients underwent abmt between 1984 and 1989 for high grade lymphoma resistant to conventional chemotherapy. their case notes and cxrs were reviewed in conjunction with the clinicians. in this small sample of patients, an acute interstitial pattern was seen with pulmonary oedema following bone marrow reinfusion in two cases of the 13 patients showing cxr changes (15%). otherwise, the cxr changes following abmt were not specific, although they did alert the clinician to the possibilities of recurrent lymphoma or opportunistic infection, enabling appropriate investigations and treatment to be instituted at an early stage. the complications and cxr changes did not differ greatly from those seen following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
the 1989 presidential address. international society for the study of vulvar disease. major changes in the terminology for vulvar disease have taken place in the past 20 years under the influence of the members of the international society for the study of vulvar disease. major terminology changes have been made for vulvar nonneoplastic disorders, vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia and superficially invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy prevention by exercise in fast-twitch fibers. exercise has been shown to be effective in preventing glucocorticoid-induced atrophy in muscles containing high proportions of type ii or fast-twitch fibers. this investigation was undertaken to further evaluate this response in type iia and iib fibers, determined by histochemical staining for myofibrillar adenosinetriphosphatase with alkaline and acid preincubation. steroid [cortisol acetate (ca), 100 mg/kg body wt] and exercise (running 90 min/day, 29 m/min) treatments were initiated simultaneously for 11 consecutive days in female rats. fiber distribution and area measurements were performed in a deep and superficial region of plantaris muscle. the exercise regimen spared approximately 40% of the ca-induced plantaris muscle atrophy. in the deep region, the fiber population, which contained approximately 13% type i (slow-twitch), 24% type iia, and 63% iib fibers, was not affected by either treatment. in the superficial section, which consisted solely of type ii fibers, the proportion of type iia fibers was higher (27 vs. 9%, p less than 0.01) in the steroid- than in the vehicle-treated groups. within each region, type iia fibers were less susceptible to atrophy than type iib fibers, and within each fiber type, the deep region had less atrophy than the superficial region. type i fibers were unchanged by steroid treatment. for type iia fibers, exercise prevented 100% of the atrophy in the deep region and 50% in the superficial region. for type iib fibers, the activity spared 67 and 40% of the atrophy in these same regions, respectively. these results show that glucocorticoids are capable of changing the myosin phenotype.
combined internal mammary artery graft for coronary artery revascularization. five patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease underwent isolated coronary artery bypass grafting with a technique involving both internal mammary arteries and a small piece of interposed saphenous vein. the combined internal mammary artery grafts were used for sequential grafting. a total of 20 anastomoses were performed (average number, 4 anastomoses per patient). there were no operative deaths. postoperative complications included reoperation for bleeding in 1 patient and diaphragmatic dysfunction in another. postoperative coronary angiography 2 days before discharge (mean time, 10 days postoperatively) revealed that all the sequential anastomoses with the combined ima graft were patent. exercise tolerance tests performed 3 and 11 months postoperatively indicated excellent results and no ischemia. based on this experience, we conclude that this method appears promising for multivessel coronary artery bypass grafting.
vector short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation. a new method has been developed for recording short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation. negative electrical forces recorded with three orthodiagonal bipolar electrodes in the neck had a direction opposite to that of impulse conduction in the proximal peripheral and cervical somatosensory pathway. sequential tracings of vectors opposite the electrical forces were made in three-dimensional display, thus reproducing the actual time sequence of electrical events in those structures. fixed generators such as the subcortical nuclei were also analyzed with this technique, and multiple generators of n13 potential (n13a and n13b) were visualized. this technique may be useful in the functional evaluation of the somatosensory pathway in the cervical cord.
closure of a bronchopleural fistula with bronchoscopic instillation of tetracycline. persistent bronchopleural fistulas (bpf) due to infection, trauma, or thoracic surgical procedures are often difficult to manage. we report a patient with fulminant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia complicated by chronic bpf formation which prevented weaning from mechanical ventilation due to severe air leak. fistula closure was obtained by instillation of tetracycline into the fistula via a fiberoptic bronchoscope using a balloon catheter and blood clot occlusion technique. this closed the bpf and allowed successful weaning from mechanical ventilation.
relationship of laparoscopic findings to self-report of pelvic pain. an assessment battery including standardized measures of behavioral and psychosocial factors associated with other chronic pain conditions was administered to 102 women scheduled for laparoscopic surgery. surgeons who were blinded to the patient's self-reported pain data completed the american fertility society classification for endometriosis and adhesions on the basis of observed physical disease. although american fertility society classification scores were significantly related to self-assignment into pain or no-pain groups, the extent of physical disease evaluated by this procedure was not significantly correlated with ratings of pain levels or a number of indexes of impairment. the group of patients with laparoscopically diagnosed pathologic conditions reported higher pain levels and greater interference than the group who reported pain and had negative laparoscopic results; however, some women with observable pathologic conditions reported no pain symptoms.
skin manifestations in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins (cdlg). in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins (cdlg) there is an immunodeficiency with impaired leucocyte function and cutaneous and extracutaneous infections occur. in more than 30% of cases the condition has a fatal course. we report the skin manifestations of three siblings with cdlg in which areas of skin necrosis occurred that resembled pyoderma gangrenosum.
detection of ki-67 proliferation rate in breast cancer. correlation with clinical and pathologic features. in situ determination of proliferative activity was performed on 203 breast cancers by use of ki-67 monoclonal antibody and immunohistochemical methods. tumor proliferation rate was analyzed and correlated to tumor size and nodal status. the relationship between ki-67 proliferative activity and nuclear estrogen receptor content was also investigated on adjacent tissue sections. ki-67 values ranged from 1 to 75%, with a median value of 10%. premenopausal patients had greater ki-67 values (median value, 14.1%) than postmenopausal ones (median value, 9.8%). the authors observed no correlation with lymph nodal involvement, whereas a statistically significant relationship with tumor size was found (p less than 0.01). an inverse correlation (spearman's coefficient = -0.56; p less than 0.001) was seen between ki-67 values and nuclear estrogen receptor content. these results, similar to those reported for other kinetic measurements, suggest that in situ detection of ki-67 proliferation rate is a useful method for obtaining cell cycle information. follow-up studies will be needed to assess an eventual prognostic relevance.
anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease. anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined, incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects. six patients had a high spinal lesion, 11 had a low spinal lesion, and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions. patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation. unlike normal subjects, there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes. the external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced, and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon. patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, blunted rectal sensation, and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures. most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers. sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions. patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, impaired rectal sensation, and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure. leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions.
active drainage of cardiac lymph in relation to reduction in size of myocardial infarction: an experimental study. active drainage of cardiac lymph using hyaluronidase was attempted in dogs. the results were satisfactory and the ischemic myocardium was salvaged. the infarct risk area (i/r) ratio decreased after drainage. regional myocardial ischemia and infarction were provided by means of ligature of the left coronary artery for 120 and 240 minutes respectively. cardiac lymph was collected by conventional procedures. enzymes released from the myocardium increased significantly in the cardiac lymph. the volume of cardiac lymph gradually increased after ligature of the coronary artery. administration of hyaluronidase further increased the cardiac lymph flow and significantly decreased the i/r ratio as determined by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (ttc) and methylene blue staining. drainage of the cardiac lymph salvaged the ischemic myocardium. reduction of interstitial edema and augmentation of cardiac lymph flow with the hyaluronidase prevented the development of the infarction. this is the first documentation of the effect of active drainage of cardiac lymph on the development of infarction through observation of the i/r ratio.
hepatic cyst associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome. a solitary hepatic cyst, associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome, is described. to our knowledge, this association has not been previously reported. a developmental anomaly or hamartomatous nature of this lesion is suggested. knowledge of this association may be helpful in the clinical diagnosis of this benign entity.
molecular localization of the t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation of ewing sarcoma by chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization. chromosome translocations are associated with a variety of human leukemias, lymphomas, and solid tumors. to localize molecular markers flanking the t(11;22) (q24;q12) breakpoint that occurs in virtually all cases of ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma, high-resolution chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization was carried out using a panel of cosmid clones localized and ordered on chromosome 11q. the location of the ewing sarcoma translocation breakpoint was determined relative to the nearest two cosmid markers on 11q, clones 23.2 and 5.8, through the analysis of metaphase chromosome hybridization. by in situ hybridization to interphase nuclei, the approximate physical separation of these two markers was determined. in both ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma, cosmid clone 5.8 is translocated from chromosome 11q24 to the derivative chromosome 22 and a portion of chromosome 22q12 carrying the leukemia inhibitory factor gene is translocated to the derivative chromosome 11. the physical distance between the flanking cosmid markers on chromosome 11 was determined to be in the range of 1000 kilobases, and genomic analysis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed no abnormalities over a region of 650 kilobases in the vicinity of the leukemia inhibitory factor gene on chromosome 22. this approach localizes the ewing sarcoma breakpoint to a small region on chromosome 11q24 and provides a rapid and precise technique for the molecular characterization of chromosomal aberrations.
limitation of myocardial infarct size by a right ventricular assist device. to evaluate the effects of an rvad on myocardial ischemic injury during right coronary artery (rca) ligation, a pneumatically driven pusher plate pump was inserted between the right atrium and pulmonary artery, and the rca was ligated at its origin for two hr. there were 18 sheep, of which nine each served as the control and rvad groups. hemodynamic parameters and blood samples were collected from the coronary sinus. area at risk and area of infarct were detected by gentian violet injection and triphenyltetrazolium (ttc) staining. hemodynamic parameters (left ventricular systolic pressure (lvsp), cardiac output (co], and creatine kinase levels in coronary sinus blood tended to be beneficial, to some degree, in the rvad group. electron microscopic examination revealed chromatin clumping and mitochondrial destruction, however this ultrastructural damage was more severe in the control group. the ratio of area of infarct to area at risk in the rvad group was significantly less than that in the control group, being 20.25 +/- 6.93% vs. 47.24 +/- 10.53% (p less than 0.05). the infarct size induced by rca occlusion was significantly reduced by the rvad, due to the right ventricular unloading via reduced myocardial oxygen demand.
preliminary experience with 5 and 6 french diagnostic catheters as guiding catheters for coronary angioplasty. with the reduction in profile of balloon dilation catheters, until recently, it has been the internal dimensions and performance of the guiding catheter that has mandated the use of 7, 8 or 9 french (f) systems for the performance of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca). a new 5f catheter design (sherwood medical co., st. louis, mo) provided a large inner lumen (0.4") permitting use of 0.20-0.22" fixed-wire ptca balloon catheters with good coronary visualization. potential advantages include reduced coronary artery ostial trauma and catheter induced damping and enhanced patient comfort. we report our initial experience in 14 patients undergoing ptca with a 5 and 6f guide/fixed-wire system. mean age was 63 +/- 10 (43-78 years). ptca indications: cardiogenic shock (1), post-myocardial infarction angina pectoris (2), grade iii angina (5) and unstable angina pectoris (6). vessel attempted: left anterior descending (3), circumflex (4), obtuse marginal (2), diagonal (1), right coronary artery (3), and internal thoracic artery (1). twelve patients had femoral approach; two brachial approach. the usci probe (usci division, billerica, ma) was used in 8 lesions and scimed ace (scimed life systems, maplegrove, mn) catheter in 7 lesions. successful 5 or 6f guide/fixed-wire dilations reduced the stenosis (77 +/- 14 to 37 +/- 30%) and were successfully performed in 79% (11/14). one 5f patient required 8f guiding catheter and was dilated with 2.0 fixed-wire balloon. a second failed 5f ptca could not be dilated with any larger conventional system. a third total occlusion could not be crossed with a guidewire or fixed wire balloon. no patient had a complication.
role of enhanced glomerular synthesis of thromboxane a2 in progressive kidney disease. normotensive rats of the milan strain (mns) spontaneously develop focal glomerulosclerosis. in order to explore the contribution of glomerular thromboxane (tx) a2 synthesis to the development of the disease, we have characterized the time course of renal functional and biochemical changes, and their modification by long-term treatment with a tx-synthase inhibitor. oral administration (150 mg.kg-1 from 1 to 14 months of age) of fce 22178 suppressed enhanced glomerular txb2 production at all experimental times (mean inhibition 80%) and proteinuria (varying between 27.1 and 73.0%) while preserving renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate. these effects of tx-synthase inhibition were seen in the absence of any statistically significant changes in systemic blood pressure. moreover, fce 22178 had no antihypertensive effects in hypertensive rats of the milan strain (mhs) nor in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). treatment also prevented the age-related hypoalbuminemia and hyperlipidemia observed in control mns and significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced glomerular histologic damage, as demonstrated by light microscopy studies and measurement of sclerotic area. we conclude that: 1) mns rats provide an animal model of long-lasting proteinuria characterized by an age-related increase in glomerular txb2 production paralleled by progressive loss of renal structural integrity and function and by a secondary dyslipidemia; 2) pharmacological inhibition of glomerular tx-synthase attenuates the structural as well as the functional expression of kidney disease, without a primary effect on systemic blood pressure. these data are suggestive of an important modulating role of txa2 in the progression of mns renal disease.
clinical evaluation of an algorithm for the interpretation of hyperamylasemia. total amylase concentration in serum continues to be widely determined in the diagnosis of acute pancreatic disease. accumulated experience has made clear, however, that this determination has distinct limitations. consequently, the knowledge of the origin of hyperamylasemia may have an important influence on treatment, hospitalization, and extent of clinical investigations. we undertook a logical and systematic approach to the interpretation of hyperamylasemia through the use of an algorithm that can be applied in clinical situations without the need for the integration of radiologic procedures or clinical data. the proposed algorithm was tested for effectiveness in 97 consecutive hospitalized patients with hyperamylasemia (amylase level greater than twice the upper reference limit) for a 2-year period. the majority (52.5%) of these patients had acute pancreatitis. the algorithm assigned the correct diagnostic categories in 95.8% of cases, with a disagreement between patient diagnosis and algorithm-generated diagnosis in only four cases. these four patients (two with acute biliary disease, one with bacterial peritonitis, and one with chronic renal failure) had pancreatic lipase values greater than five times the upper reference limit, so that the algorithm classified their condition as acute pancreatitis. the clinical trial indicated that the proposed decision tree, which requires only knowledge of biochemical data that are readily available, is useful in the evaluation of elevated amylase activity and facilitates arrival at a definitive diagnosis.
effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma. in 19 months, a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases (179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage, younger than 70 years; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis, aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women). of the 660 cases, 22 hcc cases (3.3%) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination. four of those cases (18%) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter, and 11 cases (50%) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm. surgical resection was performed on 12 cases (55%). in comparison with the control group (83 hcc cases not receiving any periodic checkup), the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher. this examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma.
effective doses of epidural morphine for relief of postcholecystectomy pain. having previously established the effective dose of intrathecal morphine for relief of postcholecystectomy pain, we determined in this study the effective dose of epidural morphine for relief of postcholecystectomy pain in 154 patients given epidural injections of a placebo (group 1, n = 49), 2 mg morphine (group 2, n = 54), or 4 mg morphine (group 3, n = 51) intraoperatively mixed in 1.5% lidocaine. the percentage of patients who did not request an analgesic, 30 mg im pentazocine, for relief of pain during the first 24 postoperative hours was significantly greater in groups 2 and 3 than in group 1. in patients who did need 30 mg im pentazocine postoperatively, the number of times pentazocine was administered was also significantly greater in group 1 than in groups 2 and 3. the percentage of patients developing respiratory depression or vomiting in the first 48 postoperative hours was similar in the three groups. based on the present data and those we previously reported for intrathecal morphine, we conclude that an epidural morphine dose of 2-4 mg and an intrathecal morphine dose of 0.06-0.12 mg are equipotent for relief of postcholecystectomy pain.
mechanism of surgical stress impairment of human perioperative natural killer cell cytotoxicity. natural killer (nk) cells are an important defense against intravascular tumor dissemination. tumor embolization can occur at surgery, so we tested whether surgical stress decreased perioperative nk cell cytotoxicity, and examined the underlying mechanism of suppression. patients with solid tumors underwent nk cell cytotoxicity assay just before and 24 hours after surgery in a 3-hour chromium 51 release assay. the nk cell cytotoxicity was significantly decreased postoperatively. we considered that surgical nk cell impairment might be due to (1) nk cell redistribution, (2) presence of suppressor cells, or (3) direct "toxic" effects on nk cells. impaired nk cell cytotoxicity was not due to nk cell redistribution, because differential counts showed no significant changes in the percentage of large granular lymphocyte nk morphology. to isolate possible suppressor cells, postoperative cells from patients were selectively depleted of nk cells using anti-leu-11b monoclonal antibody plus complement; these cells were then mixed with autologous preoperative cells. postoperative nk cell cytotoxicity was markedly impaired, but the postoperative nk depleted cells did not suppress preoperative nk cells. we conclude that nk cell functional impairment from surgical stress is due to direct "toxic" effects on nk cells rather than either nk cell redistribution or the generation of nk-directed suppressor cells.
quantifying language development from birth to 3 years using the early language milestone scale. a point-scoring technique for the early language milestone scale is described. normative data based on the original 1982 cross-sectional sample and validation data based on a separate longitudinal sample are presented. mean early language milestone scale point scores, standard deviations, and percentile equivalents for raw point scores are presented for all ages from birth to 36 months. correlations between point scores on the early language milestone scale and scores on other standardized developmental tests such as the stanford-binet intelligence scale, the peabody picture vocabulary test, and the illinois test of psycholinguistic abilities are presented. the clinical and research advantages of this point-scoring technique are presented and compared with the original pass/fail scoring method.
improved access to lesions of the central skull base by mobilization of the zygoma: experience with 54 cases. improved access to lesions at the medial end of the sphenoid wing or in the interpeduncular cistern after mobilization of the zygoma has been a subject of growing interest in recent years. this study describes the operative technique we have adopted and records our experience with 55 operations in 54 patients who underwent the procedure in the past 3 years. seven patients had vascular lesions, 44 had tumors, and 3 had miscellaneous lesions. the majority of the tumors were medial meningiomas, and particular note is made of those arising from the cavernous sinus with respect to their resectability. sixteen of these tumors were encountered, and total excision was possible in 11 cases. access to the infratemporal fossa is facilitated, and in 2 cases we were able to excise completely trigeminal neuromas that had extended there. the extra maneuver adds little to the overall operating time, and complications relating to it are uncommon, mild in degree, and usually self-limiting. we conclude that the operation is extremely valuable in appropriate circumstances.
short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis a prospective study, with an attempted 24-month-post-treatment follow-up, of children with tuberculosis (tb) treated with short course chemotherapy (scc) for 6 months was carried out because published experience of scc in childhood tb was limited. all children in port moresby diagnosed as having tb between november, 1984, and november, 1986, entered the trial. of the 639 children 165 (26%) were younger than 2 years old. of these, 227 (35%) had extrapulmonary tb (peripheral lymph node, 110; central nervous system, 43; abdominal, 27; miliary, 16; bone and joint, 11; pleural, 11; polyserositis, 9). clinical response to scc was rapid. adverse drug reactions occurred in 15 (2%), mainly to streptomycin. twelve (2%) died, 38 (6%) transferred out and 145 (28% of the 518 who did not die, transfer or live too far from a treatment centre) defaulted. three hundred seventy-three (58%) completed a 2-month course of daily rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and streptomycin followed by a 4-month course of twice weekly rifampin and isoniazid. a further 71 (11%) had their treatment modified because of their distance from a treatment center. only 70 (19%) of the 373 children available for post-treatment follow-up attended the every-3-month follow-up visits for 24 months, although 223 (60%) attended one or more of the follow-up visits. seven of the 373 children relapsed, mostly within 3 months. five of these children had been irregular with their treatment. scc for childhood tb is safe and effective for pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease.
overview: renal physiology and pathophysiology of aging. cross-sectional studies in humans have suggested that there is a progressive decline of renal function with age after 40 years. the decline in various functions (eg, tubular maximums, concentrating and diluting abilities, and acidification) tend to parallel the decreases in glomerular filtration rate (gfr) and renal blood (plasma) flow (rpf). recent observations from the baltimore longitudinal study of aging suggest that not all individuals follow this pattern, and that, indeed, many show no decline and some even an increase in their renal function over time. whether the observed decreases in renal function with aging are the results of intervening pathologic processes, eg, immunologic, infectious, and toxic injury and ischemia, or can be related to hyperperfusion and hyperfiltration with resultant glomerulosclerosis, or to some other relentless involutional process, remains unclear. the purpose of this report is to review the descriptive studies documenting the changes in renal morphology and physiology with age and to discuss what is known about mechanisms involved in these losses of renal substance and function.
efficacy and safety of vagus nerve stimulation in patients with complex partial seizures. a clinical trial of chronic intermittent vagal stimulation in five patients suggests that the procedure may be safe and effective as adjunctive treatment of medically intractable seizures of partial onset. patients tolerated well the implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis and the vagal stimulation without serious physiological or lifestyle changes. stimulation of the vagus nerve either reduced the seizure frequency or decreased the duration or intensity of seizures. adverse side effects were limited to a tingling sensation in the throat and hoarseness during stimulation. a major complication was mechanical interruption of the wire-electrode circuitry, with consequent cessation of stimulation. the small number of patients and the relatively short follow-up period make this a pilot study, but the results are promising.
hemodynamic benefit of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during cardiac pacing in critically ill patients. objective: to determine the hemodynamic effects of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during emergency cardiac pacing in critically ill patients. design: prospective, within patient double-blind study. setting: icu or coronary care unit patients in a university hospital. patients: forty (23 cardiac surgery, ten acute myocardial infarction, and seven general intensive care) seriously ill patients with severe symptomatic bradycardia. intervention: initial randomization of patients to receive either a pacing mode where atrioventricular synchronization was maintained (atrioventricular pacing: atrial demand, atrioventricular sequential, atrioventricular universal) or a mode of pacing where atrioventricular synchrony was not preserved (ventricular demand pacing). measurements and main results: the cardiac output increased from a mean of 4.5 +/- 1.7 l/min (95% confidence intervals: 4.0 to 5.0 l/min) during ventricular demand pacing to 5.3 +/- 1.7 l/min (95% confidence intervals: 4.9 to 5.9 l/min) during atrioventricular pacing (p less than .0001) despite trivial decreases in cvp from 14 +/- 4 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 13 to 15 mm hg) to 13 +/- 5 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 12 to 15 mm hg) and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure from 18 +/- 5 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 16 to 20 mm hg) to 17 +/- 5 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 15 to 18 mm hg). at the same time, mean arterial pressure (map) increased from 74 +/- 15 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 64 to 79 mm hg) to 83 +/- 15 mm hg (95% confidence intervals: 80 to 88 mm hg) and left ventricular stroke work index from 22 +/- 10 g.m/m2 (95% confidence intervals: 19 to 25 g.m/m2) to 30 +/- 11 g.m/m2 (95% confidence intervals: 26 to 33 g.m/m2). there was no significant change in mean pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance index, or systemic vascular resistance index. conclusion: when cardiac pacing is required in critically ill patients, maintaining atrioventricular synchrony increases stroke volume, cardiac output, and map apparently with minimal effects on preload and afterload.
transcranial electrical stimulation with high frequency intermittent current (limoge's) potentiates opiate-induced analgesia: blind studies. transcutaneous cranial electrical stimulation (tces) with high frequency (166 khz) intermittent current (100 hz: limoge current) has been used for several years in cardiac, thoracic, abdominal, urological and micro-surgery. the main benefits are a reduced requirement for analgesic drugs, especially opiates, and a long-lasting postoperative analgesia. we have confirmed these clinical observations in rats using the tail-flick latency (tfl) test to measure pain threshold. tces was not found to modify the pain threshold in drug-free rats, but it potentiated morphine-induced analgesia (systemic injection). to obtain a maximal effect, the stimulation must be initiated 3 h before the drug injection and be maintained throughout the duration of its pharmacological action. tces potentitation was found to depend on the dose of the drug, the intensity of the current and the polarity of electrodes. these findings were confirmed by blind tests of the efficiency of tces on several opiate analgesic drugs currently used in human surgery (morphine, fentanyl, alfentanil and dextromoramide). the analgesic effect of these 4 opiates (tfl as % of baseline without or with tces) were respectively: 174%, 306%; 176%, 336%; 160%, 215%; and 267%, 392%. the results were obtained not only after systemic opiate treatment, but also after intracerebroventricular injection of morphine (10 micrograms; analgesic effect 152%, 207% with tces) suggesting that tces potentiation of opiate-induced analgesia is centrally mediated.
valve and great vessel stenosis: assessment with mr jet velocity mapping. for measurement of poststenotic jet velocities with magnetic resonance (mr) imaging, the authors reduced the echo time (te) of the field even-echo rephasing (feer) velocity mapping sequence from 14.0 to 3.6 msec, so minimizing the problem of mr signal loss from turbulent fluid. in vitro use of rotating disk and stenotic flow phantoms confirmed that the 3.6-msec te sequence enables accurate measurement of jet velocities of up to 6.0 m/sec (r = .996). peak jet velocity measurements were made with mr imaging in 36 patients with stenosis of native heart valves (n = 9), conduits (n = 19), or fontan connections (n = 2) or with aortic coarctation (n = 6). peak velocity measurements made with mr imaging agreed well with measurements made with doppler ultrasound (us), which were available in 18 cases (standard deviation = 0.2 m/sec). velocity mapping with fast-echo mr imaging is likely to have considerable importance as a noninvasive means of locating and evaluating stenoses, particularly at sites inaccessible to us, but care must be taken to prevent errors caused by malalignment, signal loss, phase wrap, or partial-volume effects.
variceal sclerosis in schistosomotic patients: a 5-year follow-up study. to assess the therapeutic possibilities of injection sclerosis in schistosomotic portal hypertension, a 5-year prospective study was conducted in northeast brazil, where this parasitosis is endemic. fifty patients undergoing endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from rupture of esophageal varices from july through december 1981 were chosen for the study. the 32 consenting patients were submitted to injection sclerotherapy paravariceally, using ethanolamine oleate; the 18 refusing to participate were assigned to the control group. the incidence of rebleeding was 28.1% in the former and 44.5% in the latter, a difference which was not statistically significant (fisher's test, p = 0.375). mortality from rupture of esophageal varices was 3.1% in the sclerotherapy group and 27.7% in the control group, a statistically significant difference (fischer's test, p = 0.017). since sclerotherapy markedly improved the long-term survival rate of the patients, this procedure is advocated for the treatment of esophageal varices in cases of portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis.
changes in the basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells from alcoholic patients--a quantitative golgi study. although a variety of pathological changes have been described in the brains of chronic alcoholic patients, there have been no studies which have addressed the question of alterations in cortical neuronal dendritic arborisation. loss of neurons from the superior frontal gyrus and shrinkage of neurons from both the superior frontal gyrus and motor cortex has been documented in chronic alcoholic patients; these areas were chosen for this study. using a modified rapid golgi technique the basal dendritic arborisation of layer iii pyramidal neurons was compared in 15 male alcoholic patients and 15 age-matched male controls. all parameters measuring basal dendritic arborisation were significantly less in the alcoholic cases for both the superior frontal and motor cortices. changes in the arbor are in the terminal branches, which is consistent with other models of dendritic plasticity. such changes may explain both permanent and reversible functional deficits in chronic alcoholic patients.
contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome. the salient contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome have made it unique. no pancreatic endocrine tumor described before (insulinoma) or subsequently (glucagonoma, somatostatinoma, vipoma, pancreatic-polypeptidoma) has been the topic of such a variety of studies, or has been such an inspiration and rich source of new ideas for investigation and ultimate improvement in patient care.
neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients. in a consecutive entry trial, the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (bmt). the aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections. chemotaxis, superoxide production, and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2, 6, 9, and 12 months after bmt. skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after bmt. infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year. six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before bmt. two months after bmt all 10 patients with greater than stage ii graft-versus-host disease (gvhd), and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage ii gvhd had at least one decreased function. at this time, patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis (p less than .05), phagocytic-bactericidal activity (p less than .005), and superoxide production (p less than .025) than those without. defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections. at 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without gvhd. in contrast, at 9 months three of three patients, and at 1 year two of three with chronic gvhd had still decreased neutrophil function. in conclusion, neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after bmt. combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk.
ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer. a population-based study. background. the risk of colorectal cancer is increased among patients with ulcerative colitis. the magnitude of this increase in risk and the effects of the length of follow-up, the extent of disease at diagnosis, and age at diagnosis vary substantially in different studies. methods. to provide accurate estimates of the risk of colorectal cancer among patients with ulcerative colitis, we studied a population-based cohort of 3117 patients given a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis from 1922 through 1983 who were followed up through 1984. results. ninety-two cases of colorectal cancer occurred in 91 patients. as compared with the expected incidence, the incidence of colorectal cancer in the cohort was increased (standardized incidence ratio [ratio of observed to expected cases] = 5.7; 95 percent confidence interval, 4.6 to 7.0). less extensive disease at diagnosis was associated with a lower risk; for patients with ulcerative proctitis, the standardized incidence ratio was 1.7 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.8 to 3.2); for those with left-sided colitis, 2.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 4.4); and for those with pancolitis (extensive colitis, or inflammation of the entire colon), 14.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 11.4 to 18.9). age at diagnosis and the extent of disease at diagnosis were strong and independent risk factors for colorectal cancer. for each increase in age group at diagnosis (less than 15 years, 15 to 29 years, 30 to 39 years, 40 to 49 years, 50 to 59 years, and greater than or equal to 60 years), the relative risk of colorectal cancer, adjusted for the extent of disease at diagnosis, decreased by about half (adjusted standardized incidence ratio = 0.51; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.46 to 0.56). the absolute risk of colorectal cancer 35 years after diagnosis was 30 percent for patients with pancolitis at diagnosis and 40 percent for those given this diagnosis at less than 15 years of age. conclusions. close surveillance and perhaps even prophylactic proctocolectomy should be recommended for patients given a diagnosis of pancolitis, especially those who are less than 15 years of age at diagnosis.
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989. we describe our pathologic study of skin, fascial, and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy, histochemistry, and electron microscopy. a perivascular, lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis, fascia, and skeletal muscle. lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen. ultrastructurally, capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present. this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome.
solitary, isolated metastasis from ewing's sarcoma to the brain: case report. we report a case of a 30-year-old woman who developed an intraparenchymal cerebral metastasis from a ewing's sarcoma of the chest wall diagnosed and treated 3 years earlier and in apparent remission at the time of the neurological presentation (seizures). the case was complicated by a spontaneous preoperative intratumoral hemorrhage that occurred the morning of the scheduled surgical resection and caused a left dense hemiparesis. the tumor and the hematoma were removed. the patient improved after surgical intervention and a postoperative course of cranial irradiation followed by systemic chemotherapy was given. nineteen months after treatment the patient remains disease-free from the clinical and radiological standpoint.
electrophysiologic findings after fontan repair of functional single ventricle. cardiac arrhythmias are well recognized sequelae of the fontan operation for complex congenital anomalies. in this study the electrophysiologic effects of the fontan procedure were evaluated in 30 patients who underwent cardiac catheterization with electrophysiologic study 1.9 +/- 1.3 years (mean +/- sd) after modified fontan repair for functional single ventricle. abnormalities of sinus node or ectopic pacemaker automaticity were detected in 50% (15 patients) by determination of a prolonged corrected sinus node or pacemaker recovery time. total sinoatrial conduction time was prolonged in 50% of the patients with normal sinus rhythm. sinus node or ectopic atrial pacemaker function was entirely normal in only 43% of patients. the predominant atrial rhythm was normal sinus in 70% and ectopic atrial or junctional in 30%. abnormalities of atrial effective and functional refractory periods were noted in 43% of patients and were most pronounced at faster paced cycle lengths. atrial endocardial catheter mapping revealed intraatrial conduction delays between adjacent sites in 76% of the patients tested and in eight of nine patients with inducible intraatrial reentry. programmed atrial stimulation induced nonsustained supraventricular arrhythmias in 10% of the 30 patients and sustained arrhythmias in 27%. intraatrial reentry was the most common inducible arrhythmia and was present in seven of the eight patients with sustained and two of the three patients with nonsustained atrial arrhythmias. atrioventricular conduction abnormalities were noted in 10% (three patients). no patient had inducible ventricular arrhythmias with programmed ventricular stimulation. the electrophysiologic findings after fontan repair include abnormal sinus node function, prolonged atrial refractoriness, delayed intraatrial conduction and inducible atrial arrhythmias.
multipolar electrocoagulation versus injection therapy in the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers. a prospective, randomized trial. this study prospectively compares multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy in high-risk patients with bleeding ulcers. patients were considered for entry if they had a bloody nasogastric aspirate, melena, or hematochezia and unstable vital signs, transfusion of greater than or equal to 2 u of blood in 12 hours, or a decrease in hematocrit of greater than or equal to 6% in 12 hours. sixty patients with endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding (n = 26) or a nonbleeding visible vessel (n = 34) were randomly assigned to receive multipolar electrocoagulation or injection with absolute ethanol. hemostasis was achieved in 14 of 14 actively bleeding patients with multipolar electrocoagulation vs. 10 of 12 (83%) treated with injection. no significant differences were observed between electrocoagulation and injection therapy in any parameter assessed during the hospitalization: incidence of further bleeding (6% vs. 10%), units of blood transfused after treatment (1.8 +/- 0.6 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.4), incidence of surgery for bleeding (6% vs. 7%), length of hospital stay in days (5.8 +/- 0.9 vs. 7.2 +/- 2.5), cost of hospitalization (+7160 +/- +1630 vs. +8520 +/- +2960), or mortality rate (3% vs. 3%). treatment induced bleeding in nonbleeding visible vessels in 35% of subjects in each group, but this was controlled with continued treatment in all patients. one delayed perforation occurred 9 days after multipolar electrocoagulation. multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy are of comparable efficacy in the treatment of patients with clinical evidence of a major upper gastrointestinal bleed and endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding or a nonbleeding visible vessel.
cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in normal and neurosurgical patients: a clinical study and literature review. endothelins are a family of structurally related, potent, long-lasting vasoconstrictor peptides. there are no established normal human levels of endothelin-1 or endothelin-3 in the cerebrospinal fluid. we measured cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in five groups of patients: normal controls, patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral vasospasm, patients with severe head injuries, patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy, and a patient with a gunshot injury to the thoracic spine. endothelin-3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and may participate in cerebral vasospasm and subsequent neurologic deterioration.
occult cancer in patients with deep venous thrombosis. a systematic approach. the authors prospectively studied 113 consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities to determine the most appropriate workup study for searching for a hidden cancer. after a careful physical examination, the following routine tests were performed: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr), whole blood counts, biochemistry, carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) levels, chest radiograph, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography (ct) scan. if a malignant lesion was suspected, further appropriate studies were performed. after discharge, periodic follow-up was performed on all patients in the outpatient clinic. a malignant neoplasm was detected in 12 patients. of these 12 patients, six were asymptomatic with the exception of experiencing thrombophlebitis. cancer was found more commonly in patients with idiopathic deep vein thrombosis (dvt) (7 of 31 versus 5 of 82 patients with secondary dvt; p = 0.012), and in those patients with abnormal lactic dehydrogenase (ldh) levels (6 of 23 versus 6 of 90; p = 0.007). abnormal cea levels allowed diagnosis of two cases of colonic cancer (on colonoscopy). both ultrasound and ct scan of the abdomen showed two cases of urinary bladder carcinoma at a very early stage. furthermore, two cases of adenomatous polyps in colon were found, a condition considered by most authors to be a colorectal cancer precursor. in addition, there were five patients with large benign pelvic tumors, and two patients with absent inferior vena cava. the most striking finding was that some cases of cancer were at a very early stage. it was concluded that blood cell counts, ldh, cea, chest radiograph, and abdominal ultrasonography (or ct scan) should be routinely performed on all patients with deep venous thrombosis (particularly those with idiopathic dvt). malignancy would not have been recognized in some patients if these tests had not been performed.
factors predictive of results of direct ablative operations for drug-refractory ventricular tachycardia. analysis of 80 patients. during a 9-year period 80 patients with drug-resistant sustained ventricular tachycardia underwent direct surgical ablation of arrhythmogenic myocardium. sixty-nine were male (86%) and 11 female (14%), with 1.9 +/- 1.1 (standard deviation) ventricular tachycardia morphologies per patient. the mean number of drugs failed was 3.7 +/- 1.6 per patient. the preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction was 36.4% +/- 14.4%. complete preoperative endocardial mapping data (greater than 4 endocardial sites in each ventricular tachycardia) were available for 60 of the 80 patients (75%) and intraoperative endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia was obtained in 37 (46.3%) of the patients. in 17 patients mapped intraoperatively by computer-assisted techniques, complete epicardial and endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia were obtained in 14 patients (82.4%). overall, 73 of 80 (91.3%) had some mapping data available. hospital mortality occurred in 10 patients (12.5%) at a mean interval of 13.5 days, range 0 to 62 days. postoperatively the clinical ventricular tachycardia has not recurred in 65 of 70 surviving patients (92.9%). nonclinical ventricular tachycardia occurred in another four patients. all nine patients with postoperative ventricular tachycardia responded to drugs. the major factors predictive of hospital mortality were prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass (greater than 150 minutes), preoperative ejection fraction less than 31%, and incomplete preoperative mapping. hospital mortality in patients with an ejection fraction below 31% was significantly associated with a history of amiodarone usage. at 3 years of follow-up, freedom from sudden cardiac death was 95.7%, and 86.7% of patients were free of ventricular tachycardia on no antiarrhythmic drugs. these results suggest that direct ventricular tachycardia operations are an effective form of therapy for patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia.
natural killer cell activity in patients with liver cirrhosis relative to severity of liver damage. to evaluate the role of severe liver damage on natural killer cell activity, 29 patients with liver cirrhosis were examined. the natural killer cell activity was measured with a 4-hr chromium release assay, and the k562 cell line was employed as target cells. the natural killer cell activity was significantly decreased in cirrhotic patients compared with normal controls and patients with chronic active hepatitis. cirrhotic patients with pugh's c grade of severity of liver disease had lower natural killer cell activity. the depression of natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients was inversely correlated with prothrombin time ratios, and the natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy was lower than in patients without hepatic encephalopathy. thus, the diminished natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients might be related to the severity of liver damage.
computed tomography and bronchoscopy in chest radiographically occult main-stem neoplasm diagnosis and nd-yag laser treatment in 8 patients. we studied 8 adult patients with variable symptoms of cough, dyspnea, stridor, wheezing, or hemoptysis. fiberoptic bronchoscopy in all showed complete or nearly complete endobronchial obstruction of a main-stem bronchus by neoplasm with a mean bronchial diameter of 1.9 mm +/- 1.6 mm (mean +/- standard deviation). in 4 patients, a lobar bronchus was also completely obstructed. no mass was visible on chest radiographs of any patient; however, computed tomography in each showed main-stem endobronchial obstruction, lobar obstruction (4 instances in 3 patients), and in 6 patients hypoperfusion of the involved lung. computed tomographic scan showed additional abnormalities that were unsuspected on viewing chest radiographs or at bronchoscopy, including mediastinal adenopathy in 3 patients and an extraluminal tumor component in 4. after therapy with nd-yag laser, main-stem airway diameter increased to a mean of 9.6 mm +/- 1.0 mm (p less than .05) and pulmonary functions improved. results suggest the complementary role of computed tomography and fiberoptic bronchoscopy in the detection and laser-treatment planning of chest radiographically occult severe neoplastic obstruction of the main-stem bronchus.
endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma. endoscopic ultrasonography (eus) was performed preoperatively in 39 patients with gallbladder carcinoma. diagnosis of the anatomical extent of gallbladder carcinoma was compared with histologic analysis, and staging accuracy was evaluated according to the tnm classification. carcinoma considered to be at an early stage with no lymph node metastasis was correctly diagnosed in 87.5%. differential diagnosis between early and advanced staged tumors was possible in 79.5%. overall accuracy for depth of tumor invasion (t) was 76.9%. limitations were due to many stones in the gallbladder and microinfiltration of carcinoma. assessment of regional lymph node metastasis (n) was at a sensitivity of 81.8% and specificity of 92.9%, for an overall accuracy of 89.7%. we believe endoscopic ultrasonography is useful in the clinical staging of gallbladder carcinoma.
value of peak exercise oxygen consumption for optimal timing of cardiac transplantation in ambulatory patients with heart failure. background. optimal timing of cardiac transplantation in ambulatory patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction is often difficult. to determine whether measurement of peak oxygen consumption (vo2) during maximal exercise testing can be used to identify patients in whom transplantation can be safely deferred, we prospectively performed exercise testing on all ambulatory patients referred for transplant between october 1986 and december 1989. methods and results. patients were assigned into one of three groups on the basis of exercise data: group 1 (n = 35) comprised patients accepted for transplant (vo2 less than or equal to 14 ml/kg/min); group 2 (n = 52) comprised patients considered too well for transplant (vo2 greater than 14 ml/kg/min); and group 3 (n = 27) comprised patients with low vo2 rejected for transplant due to noncardiac problems. all three groups were comparable in new york heart association functional class, ejection fraction, and cardiac index (p = ns). pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was significantly lower in group 2 than in either group 1 or 3 (p less than 0.05), although there was wide overlap. patients with preserved exercise capacity (group 2) had cumulative 1- and 2-year survival rates of 94% and 84%, which are equal to survival levels after transplantation. in contrast, patients rejected for transplant (group 3) had survival rates of only 47% at 1 year and 32% at 2 years, whereas patients awaiting transplantation (group 1) had a survival rate of 70% at 1 year (both p less than 0.005 versus patients with vo2 greater than 14 ml/kg/min). all deaths in group 2 were sudden. by univariate and multivariate analyses, peak vo2 was the best predictor of survival, with only pulmonary capillary wedge pressure providing additional prognostic information. conclusions. these data suggest that cardiac transplantation can be safely deferred in ambulatory patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction and peak exercise vo2 of more than 14 ml/min/kg.
comparison of a hybrid with an uncemented total hip replacement. a retrospective matched-pair study. the efficacy of a type of uncemented total hip replacement was compared with that of a hybrid total hip replacement in which an uncemented acetabular and a cemented femoral component were used. twenty-five patients who had had a hybrid total hip replacement were matched, by age, weight, sex, and diagnosis, with twenty-five patients who had had an uncemented total hip replacement. all of the operations were done by one surgeon, who used the same operative approach and the same regimen of postoperative rehabilitation. all of the patients were followed for at least two years. the mean postoperative hip score was 96 points for the hybrid group and 84 points for the cementless group (p less than 0.02). twenty-four (96 per cent) of the patients who had a hybrid prosthesis reported no or only slight pain postoperatively. in the uncemented group, of the six patients (24 per cent) who reported mild to severe pain, five had pain in the thigh, a limp occurred more frequently, five femoral components had migrated, and four hips needed reoperation. the results with the hybrid replacement that had a cemented femoral component were superior to those with the uncemented femoral component over the relatively brief period for which these patients were followed.
synergistic effects of psyllium in the dietary treatment of hypercholesterolemia. we investigated psyllium fiber supplementation as a means of enhancing the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase i american heart association diet. fifty-nine subjects with total serum cholesterol (tc) levels ranging from 5.56 to 10.24 mmol/l (215 to 396 mg/dl) were given a 2-month dietary lead-in followed by 3 months of diet only (29 subjects) or diet supplemented with 20.4 g of psyllium daily (30 subjects). unlike women, men had a significant decrease in levels of both tc (-8.0%) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) (-10.1%) during the dietary lead-in. psyllium supplementation resulted in an additional 5.5% reduction in the tc levels as compared to diet alone. psyllium supplementation combined with dietary lead-in resulted in an overall 17.3% decrease in the tc and a 20.0% decrease in ldl-c for men, with decreases of 7.7% and 11.6%, respectively, for women. psyllium effectively enhances the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase i diet.
erythrocyte sedimentation rate predicts early relapse and survival in early-stage hodgkin disease. the eortc lymphoma cooperative group. objective: to assess the value of an elevated (greater than 30 mm/h) westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr) for predicting early relapse and survival after therapy in patients with clinical stage i or ii hodgkin disease. interventions: we studied 772 patients with early-stage hodgkin disease who had participated in two separate multicenter clinical trials. both trials used modern field radiotherapy and, in some patients, multi-agent chemotherapy. main results: the esr patterns were based on pretherapy and post-therapy assessments: pattern 1, always normal (n = 261); pattern 2, elevated before therapy but normal immediately after therapy (n = 121); pattern 3, elevated before therapy but normal within 3 months after therapy (n = 89); pattern 4, always elevated (n = 48); pattern 5, normal before therapy but oscillating between normal and elevated after therapy (n = 150); pattern 6, elevated before therapy but oscillating between normal and elevated after therapy (n = 130). by multivariate analysis, independent of whether or not patients received chemotherapy in the initial therapy protocol, esr patterns 4, 5, and 6 were shown to be the best predictors for early relapse and survival when patients were stratified according to the type of chemotherapy received and the number of involved nodal areas. patients with esr pattern 4 had a relative risk for death seven times that of patients with patterns 1, 2, or 3. early relapse was the second most important factor predicting death, irrespective of esr; patients with early relapse and esr patterns 1, 2, or 3 had a relative risk for death of 4.5, and those with early relapse and esr patterns 4, 5, or 6 had a relative risk for death of 15. whether or not chemotherapy was given initially did not change the relative risk, which shows that esr, not initial therapy, was the predictor for early relapse and death due to hodgkin disease. conclusion: an unexplained elevated esr after therapy, especially after modern radiotherapy, independent of other factors, strongly suggest the presence of aggressive and resistant hodgkin disease. an elevated esr is predictive of early relapse and poor prognosis; its presence justifies early aggressive therapy.
effects of specific mu and kappa opiate tolerance and abstinence on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis secretion in the rat. chronic administration of opiates to rats results in hpa axis tolerance and abstinence-induced hypersecretion. the effects of specific mu and kappa tolerance and withdrawal on the functional secretion of the hpa axis were evaluated in this study. adult male rats were injected s.c. twice daily with saline, morphine or u50,488 for 5 days. serum adrenocorticotrophic hormone (acth) or corticosterone (cs) were determined by radioimmunoassay as measures of hpa axis function. tolerance to morphine (10 mg/kg) and u50,488 (1 mg/kg), but no cross-tolerance, was observed suggesting the development of mu- or kappa-specific tolerance, respectively. tolerance does not occur at the pituitary or adrenal levels after these paradigms because acth and cs responses to exogenous corticotropin-releasing factor and acth, respectively, were not attenuated. cs secretion in response to novelty stress was not affected by either chronic opiate treatment, but the circadian variation of cs levels was slightly blunted after chronic morphine. in contrast, the elevation of cs secretion by quipazine (0.5 mg/kg) and physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg) was attenuated after chronic u50,488, but not morphine administration. both spontaneous and antagonist-precipitated withdrawal from morphine, but not u50,488, resulted in elevation of cs levels. low doses of morphine suppressed morphine abstinence-induced cs hypersecretion, whereas, u50,488 and clonidine had no effect. in conclusion, alterations of hpa axis function occur during chronic mu or kappa opiate administration that are receptor-specific and involve multiple neural controls of the hpa axis.
does percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty accelerate atherosclerotic lesions? recent reports have suggested that angioplasty may cause or accelerate coronary arterial stenoses secondary to traumatic injury. ninety-four coronary angiograms performed in a 1 yr period were reviewed in patients who had successful coronary angioplasty 6 to 30 mo (mean 10.7) prior to restudy. restenosis was found in 43 of 140 dilated lesions (31%) and in 41 of 94 patients (44%). thirty-three (35%) patients had new or progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site. new or progressive lesions occurred with similar frequency in the arteries that did not have angioplasty (23/155 = 15%) as in the arteries that did (13/127 = 10%; chi-square n.s.). in the arteries which underwent angioplasty, new or progressive lesions occurred as commonly proximal to the ptca site (7/14, 50%) as distal (6/13, 46%). new or progressive lesions occurred in 29% of patients with concomitant restenosis, and 40% of those without restenosis (chi-square n.s.). no clinical, angiographic, or procedural factors distinguished patients with new and progressive lesions in target vessels from those without these lesions in target vessels. patients with progressive lesions anywhere in the coronary tree were more likely to have had a shorter duration of anginal symptoms before angioplasty and a family history of coronary disease when compared with patients without progressive atherosclerosis. in conclusion, new and progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site occur after the procedure but appear unrelated to the restenosis process or traumatic injury by angioplasty instrumentation.
procarbazine chemotherapy in the treatment of recurrent malignant astrocytomas after radiation and nitrosourea failure. the brain tumor study group has shown procarbazine (pcb) to be as effective an adjuvant treatment as 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (bcnu). we treated 35 patients with recurrent malignant astrocytomas after radiation and nitrosourea failure with successive courses of pcb 150 mg/m2/d for 28 days every 8 weeks. after 2 courses, 2 patients had complete responses, 7 had partial responses, 11 had stable disease, and 15 had progression. significantly more patients receiving pcb had complete or partial responses or stable disease than a similar group of patients in a previous trial who received intra-arterial (ia) cisplatin (ddp). there is a significant advantage in time to disease progression for those receiving pcb compared with those receiving ia diaziquone (azq). our results suggest that pcb is a more effective 2nd agent than ia ddp or azq following radiation and nitrosourea failure.
cytogenetic analysis of 750 spontaneous abortions with the direct-preparation method of chorionic villi and its implications for studying genetic causes of pregnancy wastage. altogether, 750 cases of spontaneous abortion between the fifth and 25th week of gestation were analyzed cytogenetically by the direct-preparation method using chorionic villi. the majority of cases (68%) were derived from early abortions before the 12th week of gestation. the frequency of abnormal karyotypes was 50.1%; trisomy was predominant (62.1%), followed by triploidy (12.4%), monosomy x (10.5%), tetraploidy (9.2%), and structural chromosome anomalies (4.7%). among trisomies, chromosomes 16 (21.8%), 22 (17.9%), and 21 (10.0%) were prevalent. the frequency of chromosomally abnormal abortions increased with maternal age but only because of an increase of trisomy. polyploidy and monosomy x, however, decreased. mean maternal age was significantly increased for trisomies 16, 21, and 22 and was highest for trisomies 18 and 20. the results obtained are within the range of variability reported earlier from tissue culture-type studies. a consistent feature during our study is the excess of females in chromosomally normal abortions (male:female sex ratio 0.71). according to the methodology applied, maternal cell contamination and undetected 46,xx molar samples cannot have influenced the sex ratio. however, a bias introduced by social status or maternal age cannot be excluded. with the more rapid and convenient direct preparation of chorionic villi, reliable cytogenetic data on causes of spontaneous abortions can be obtained.
abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 6 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. to determine the biologic significance of the structural rearrangements of the long arm of chromosome 6(6q) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) at diagnosis, we studied 412 consecutive children whose leukemic cell chromosomes had been completely banded and identified 45 (11%) children with this abnormality. the 45 cases were divided into del(6q) only (n = 11), del(6q) and numerical abnormalities (n = 4), del(6q) and structural abnormalities (n = 23), and 6q translocations (n = 7). the breakpoints of del(6q) were subgrouped: del(6)(q15q21) in 11 cases, del(6) (q13q21) in six, del(6)(q21q23) in four, del(6)(q15) in four, del(6)(q15q23) in three, and other deletions in 10 cases. notably, all these deletions encompassed the 6q21 band, suggesting that this might be the locus of a recessive tumor suppressor gene, the absence of which contributes to malignant transformation or proliferation. among the seven children with 6q translocations, a previously unidentified nonrandom translocation, t(6;12)(q21;p13) was noted in two cases with an early pre-b immunophenotype. clinical features and event-free survival were similar among children with or without 6q abnormalities. overall, children with 6q abnormalities were less likely than those without the abnormality to have a pre-b immunophenotype (p = .03). t-cell immunophenotypes were equally represented in cases with or without 6q abnormalities. however, all four children with del(6q) and a 12p abnormality had early pre-b all and all three children with del(6q) and a 9p abnormality had a t-cell immunophenotype. the lack of specificity for a particular immunophenotype may imply that the gene or genes affected by 6q abnormalities are broadly active in the multistep process of lymphoid leukemogenesis. the relatively high frequency of microscopically visible del(6q) indicates the need for molecular studies to identify cases with submicroscopic deletions.
anoxic injury of mammalian central white matter: decreased susceptibility in myelin-deficient optic nerve. the rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white matter tract, rapidly loses excitability when it is exposed to anoxia and is irreversibly damaged by prolonged anoxia. neonatal optic nerve is extremely resistant to anoxia-induced dysfunction and injury; the adult pattern of response to anoxia appears between 10 and 20 days postnatal, that is, during the period of oligodendroglial proliferation and myelination. to test the hypothesis that myelination, or associated events, confer anoxic susceptibility on developing white matter, we analyzed the effects of anoxia on the myelin-deficient (md) strain of rat. acutely isolated optic nerves from 19- to 21-day-old md rats and control optic nerves from unaffected male littermates were maintained in vitro at 37 degrees c, and exposed to a standard 60-minute period of anoxia. the supramaximal compound action potential was recorded and amplitude of the compound action potential, expressed as % of amplitude before anoxic exposure, was determined. the compound action potential was nearly abolished within 3 to 6 minutes after onset of anoxia in control optic nerves, while optic nerves from md rats displayed a slower decrease in compound action potential amplitude during anoxia, with a distinct action potential present even after 60 minutes of anoxia. optic nerves from md rats showed significantly greater recovery of compound action potential (71 +/- 25%) than did control optic nerves (33 +/- 21%; p less than 0.02) after 60 minutes of anoxia. these findings support the hypothesis that myelination, or changes associated with it, may be important in the development of anoxic susceptibility in central white matter.
a mouse model of the aniridia-wilms tumor deletion syndrome. deletion of chromosome 11p13 in humans produces the wagr syndrome, consisting of aniridia (an absence or malformation of the iris), wilms tumor (nephroblastoma), genitourinary malformations, and mental retardation. an interspecies backcross between mus musculus/domesticus and mus spretus was made in order to map the homologous chromosomal region in the mouse genome and to define an animal model of this syndrome. nine evolutionarily conserved dna clones from proximal human 11p were localized on mouse chromosome 2 near small-eyes (sey), a semidominant mutation that is phenotypically similar to aniridia. analysis of dickie's small-eye (seydey), a poorly viable allele that has pleiotropic effects, revealed the deletion of three clones, f3, f8, and k13, which encompass the aniridia (an2) and wilms tumor susceptibility genes in man. unlike their human counterparts, seydey/+ mice do not develop nephroblastomas. these findings suggest that the small-eye defect is genetically equivalent to human aniridia, but that loss of the murine homolog of the wilms tumor gene is not sufficient for tumor initiation. a comparison among sey alleles suggests that the an2 gene product is required for induction of the lens and nasal placodes.
hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma: impact of surgical resection on the natural history. from 1960 to 1987, 1209 patients with colorectal liver metastases were recorded, and followed until 1 january 1990. in 242 cases the diagnosis was based on external imaging, whereas 967 patients had operative confirmation and staging of their liver disease. three groups of patients were analysed: group 1 involved 921 cases, of whom 902 were deemed non-resectable whereas 19 could not be unequivocally classified. only 21 patients lived for longer than 3 years, seven survived for 4 years, but there were no 5-year survivors. group 2 comprised 62 highly selected patients who at laparotomy demonstrated resectable metastatic spread confined to the liver, but this was not treated mainly because of a formerly different therapeutic approach. these patients had a significantly longer median survival time (14.2 versus 6.9 months), but also failed to achieve 5-year survival. the 226 patients forming group 3 underwent hepatic resection with intent to cure. nine of them had minimal macroscopic disease left, and 34 with all gross tumour removed had positive margins. survival of patients with these 43 eventually non-radical resections followed an identical course as in group 2 (median survival 13.3 months, maximum 42 months). of the 183 patients with potentially curative resection ten died after surgery (5.5 per cent). actuarial 5 and 10-year survival rates in the remaining 173 patients were 40 and 27 per cent with 25 and seven patients alive at respective periods of time. until 1 january 1990, 64 patients remained free from recurrent disease for up to 24 years. in three patients the tumour status at death was unclear. the other 106 patients developed definite cancer relapse. nevertheless they demonstrated a prolongation of survival time by a median of 1 year when compared with the 43 non-radically resected patients or the 62 untreated patients with resectable liver-only metastases, and accomplished a maximum survival time of 8 years. radical excision of colorectal secondaries to the liver therefore offers effective palliation, and in a small number the chance of a cure.
surgical treatment of thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas. thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas have been diagnosed more frequently as radiographic techniques and biochemical assays have improved; however, they remain uncommon and are unfamiliar to most neurosurgeons. this report concerns eight patients with hyperthyroidism, inappropriately elevated levels of serum thyrotropin and alpha-subunit, and radiographic evidence of pituitary tumor. all underwent surgery and had pathological confirmation of a thyrotropin-secreting adenoma, and most had been subjected to prior ablation of the thyroid gland. only one tumor was a microadenoma; the others ranged in size from 1.4 to 12 cm, and invasion of parasellar structures was common. thyrotropin, triiodothyronine, thyroxine, and alpha-subunit were measured preoperatively and at intervals postoperatively. coexistent hormonal abnormalities (which occurred in all patients) included acromegaly and hyperprolactinemia and were also monitored. all four patients who had tumors less than 2 cm in diameter remain alive. complete extirpation of tumor in these patients produced rapid correction of all hormonal abnormalities and resolution of clinical hyperthyroidism. the other four patients had larger invasive tumors: two died soon after surgery, one died of disseminated tumor 8 years after presentation, and one remains alive with residual tumor. tumors secreting thyroid-stimulating hormone are less easily cured by surgery than are other types of pituitary adenoma because of the large size and invasive features that many attain during the delay to diagnosis; medical therapy can subdue the tumor but not cure it. the experience with these patients establishes the importance of early diagnosis and surgical excision for successful treatment, and demonstrates the utility of modern diagnostic techniques for finding these lesions. as occurs in nelson's syndrome after adrenalectomy for cushing's disease, ablation of the target organ may allow the tumor to convert to a more clinically malignant form which is resistant to cure.
the potential and limitations of laser photoablation of colorectal adenomas. ablation of colorectal adenomas by nd:yag laser energy was investigated in 271 patients. two hundred and forty-one patients, selected because of poor surgical and medical condition or refusal of surgery, presented with incompletely removed polyps or with lesions unsuitable for endoscopic polypectomy. thirty patients with polyposis coli were treated for rectal stump polyps after subtotal colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis. because of insufficient follow-up (28) or malignant degeneration (23), full evaluation was possible in 196 colon adenoma and 24 polyposis patients. complete ablation with histologic confirmation for at least 12 weeks was achieved in 150 (82%) of the 183 colon adenomas. this declined to 141 (77%) because of later recurrences in prolonged follow-up. treatment of large adenomas was less successful than that of intermediate and small lesions: ultimate ablation in 56, 85, and 93%, respectively. impressive was the immediate relief in 100 symptomatic elderly patients, who were bothered by frequent diarrhea, excessive mucous discharge, and incontinence. all patients survived despite major complications (7%) that mainly consisted of stenosis and hemorrhage. rectal stump polyps were eliminated in 20 patients with polyposis coli. the remaining four had an uneventful ileoanal anastomosis for ultimately uncontrollable growth of polyps. malignancy was discovered in 22 adenoma patients and in 1 polyposis patient. we recommend laser ablation of colorectal adenomas for small and medium-sized polyps, that cannot be removed by endoscopic polypectomy in inoperable patients or in patients refusing operation. laser treatment for extensive adenomas seems only appropriate for symptomatic relief.
clinical spectrum of leber's congenital amaurosis in the second to fourth decades of life. leber's congenital amaurosis is a type of congenital retinitis pigmentosa in which the fundus abnormalities are extremely variable and to some extent age dependent. most cases are seen in infancy. the retinal, electroretinogram, and fluorescein angiographic findings are described in ten patients with leber's congenital amaurosis who ranged in age from 13 to 36 years when first seen. all of the patients were from honduras and were unrelated except for one pair (a brother and sister). the polymorphic appearance of the fundus is emphasized and is particularly striking in the siblings. a macular lesion (a bull's-eye maculopathy) not previously associated with leber's congenital amaurosis is reported as a variant fundus appearance in this entity.
analysis of 24-hour esophageal pressure and ph data in unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain. fourty-four unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain were studied using conventional manometry with additional edrophonium provocation and 24-hour ambulatory esophageal ph and pressure recording with a system developed by our group. new, fully automated techniques of statistical analysis of the complete set of esophageal pressure and ph signals were used to examine the temporal relation between pain, esophageal motility disturbances, and gastroesophageal reflux. the analysis used the 97.5th percentile of amplitude and duration of all esophageal contractions in each patient as well as a chi 2 test of the distribution of contraction types to determine whether a pain episode was related to abnormal motility or not. the edrophonium test results were positive in 2 patients. only 25 patients (56.8%) had at least one pain episode (total, 111 episodes) during 24-hour recording. thirty-three percent of the pain episodes were related to reflux and 23.4% to abnormal motility, and 43.2% were not related to an esophageal function disturbance. in the patient-oriented analysis in this study, it was required for a positive correlation that the symptom index (percentage of related pain episodes) was higher than 75%. it was found that the pain was related to reflux in 2 patients (4.6%), to reflux and motor abnormalities in 4 (9.2%), and to motor abnormalities in 2 patients (4.6%). in 36 patients (81.8%), no relation with an esophageal abnormality could be established, either because the patients had no pain during the 24-hour study, or because the pain seemed unrelated to reflux or abnormal motility.
optimal wound closure after tethered cord correction. technical note. a technique of wound closure following tethered cord correction is presented that significantly reduces the incidence of cerebrospinal fluid collections in the subcutaneous space. in over 60 cases, the described method of fascia and skin closure has lessened wound problems to a minimal level. patient hospitalization time has also been greatly diminished.
lipids, vascular disease, and dementia with advancing age. epidemiologic considerations. elevated plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men and women. it is still not clear, however, whether lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities continue to be risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly population. it is not even clear what normal lipid values are in the elderly, and whether diet or drug therapy should be advised on the basis of lipid values established in middle-aged populations. ischemic heart disease does remain the leading cause of death in the elderly, and there is now preliminary evidence from epidemiologic studies that relative elevations of levels of lipid and lipoprotein fractions in an elderly population might be associated with an independent and increased risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, and possibly dementia. intervention studies are about to begin that will assess various lipid-and lipoprotein-modifying therapies and their ability to reduce vascular disease risk in the elderly.
prediction of cognitive change as a function of preoperative ability status among temporal lobectomy patients seen at 6-month follow-up. the relationship between preoperative ability levels and postoperative changes in cognitive function was examined among 23 left (ltl) and 19 right (rtl) temporal lobectomy patients using a battery of memory, language, and visuospatial tasks administered approximately 3 months before surgery and at 6 months follow-up. higher preoperative performances on the memory and language measures were associated with larger decrements in postsurgical scores among the ltl patients. the rtl group showed no consistent relationship between preoperative ability levels and subsequent postsurgical cognitive changes. based on the present data, we constructed base-rate tables for the wechsler memory scale-revised indicating the likelihood of measurable gains or losses in memory as a function of presurgical ability level for patients undergoing ltl. while tentative, these data provide a useful and practical guide for counseling prospective epilepsy patients of the attendant cognitive risks of ltl.
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin. erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis. we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin. we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction.
mechanical measures in the prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolism in total knee arthroplasty. total knee arthroplasty patients are at high risk for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in these patients seems mandatory. pharmacologic agents such as dextran 40, aspirin, and warfarin are effective but may be associated with significant complications such as drug reaction, bleeding, hematoma, and hemarthrosis. heparin was not effective and was associated with significant bleeding complications. mechanical methods such as continuous passive motion and sequential pneumatic compression stockings were without complications and seemed equal to or more effective than pharmacologic agents. adding warfarin to mechanical methods did not seem to augment the antithromboembolic effect of the mechanical methods.
baffle fenestration with subsequent transcatheter closure. modification of the fontan operation for patients at increased risk ventricular dysfunction, elevated pulmonary vascular resistance, and residual distal pulmonary artery distortion contribute to early mortality after a fontan operation; they may be transient or reversible. a baffle fenestration, allowing right-to-left shunting, maintains cardiac output and limits right atrial pressure. a baffle fenestration was surgically created at the time of a modified fontan repair in 20 consecutive patients. risk factors included pulmonary artery pressure of 18 mm hg or more, end-diastolic pressure of 12 mm hg or more, valvar regurgitation, pulmonary artery distortion, pulmonary vascular resistance of 2 woods' units or more, ventricular outflow obstruction, and complex anatomy. nineteen of 20 patients survived. after the operation, mean arterial oxygen saturation was 86%, mean right atrial pressure was 15 mm hg, and mean duration of pleural effusions was 6 days. twelve of 19 survivors tolerated early test occlusion and had permanent transcatheter umbrella closure. four patients failed early test occlusion, with a significant decrease in venous o2 saturation and a rise in central venous pressure, due to ventricular dysfunction, pulmonary artery distortion, or aortopulmonary collaterals. three of four had successful late closure of the fenestration after correction of these abnormalities.
aids enteropathy: occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea objective: to investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause. design: case-control study. setting: referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center. patients: twenty-two patients with advanced hiv infection (19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [aids], 3 with aids-related complex) with chronic diarrhea, selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens, were compared with 13 patients with advanced hiv infection (9 with aids, 4 with aids-related complex) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy, viral culture, and morphometric studies. both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up. measurements and main results: eleven of twenty-two patients with hiv infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens (that is, undetected by routine studies) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies. mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea (5 each). patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss (mean, 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg; p less than 0.05) and shorter survival (1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive; p less than 0.004) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens (defined as "aids enteropathy"). duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in hiv-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls (p less than 0.001 for each). all three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses. conclusions: further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with aids who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases. however, altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced hiv infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with aids enteropathy. subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor, but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure. we suggest that t-cell dysfunction may play a role.
subarachnoid hemorrhage from a dissecting aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery. case report. a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) from a dissecting aneurysm of the inferior limb of the middle cerebral artery is reported. the patient's clinical status and the initial and follow-up angiographic appearance of the aneurysm are presented. diagnosis and treatment are briefly discussed. it is suggested that, if angiography demonstrates luminal narrowing or vascular occlusion in a patient with unexplained sah, a dissecting aneurysm of the carotid system should be considered as a cause of the hemorrhage.
the validity and reliability of the navicular fat stripe as a screening test for detection of navicular fractures. study objective: the purpose of this study was to determine if the navicular fat stripe (nfs) is a valid and reliable screening tool in assessing potential navicular fractures. design: retrospective analysis. setting: minor trauma section of the los angeles county-university of southern california medical center emergency department. type of participants: study population included patients seen for wrist injury between january 1987 and december 1988. the individuals who interpreted the radiographs included eight observers with varying degrees of radiographic experience. interventions: none measurements and main results: the positive predictive value averaged 12% or 15% depending on how we counted a straight nfs, and the negative predictive value averaged 93% or 95%, again depending on how we counted a straight nfs. a straight nfs was ten times as likely to occur among normal wrists than among those with navicular fractures. interobserver reliability was found to be high with a hoyt reliability coefficient of .79. conclusions: an abnormal nfs is a poor predictor of a navicular fracture while both a straight and a normal nfs are good predictors of no navicular fracture. a normal nfs may allow less stringent treatment by the emergency physician. extremes of radiographic experience were found to have no significant effect on nfs interpretation.
lack of correlation of clinical breast examination with high-risk histopathology. purpose: routine breast examination frequently finds differences in palpable density and palpable nodularity, but it is not known if these differences correlate with the presence of high-risk histopathology. patients and methods: to test for a relationship between clinical breast examination and histopathology, we devised separate, 4-point scales of clinical density and nodularity and validated these scales by repeat examinations 4 or more months apart in 199 separate breasts (the scale was the same or within 1 point on repeat examination 87% of the time for density and 90% for nodularity). we then used these two clinical scales to compare density and nodularity to histopathology of breast tissue at the margins of segmental resections in 60 women undergoing breast-conserving treatment of primary breast cancer. in cases such as these, a large sample of "normal" tissue is intentionally removed when the wide excision is done to obtain negative margins. histopathology at the margins was graded according to the consensus panel of the american college of pathology; as might be expected in women with previous cancer, some higher-risk histopathology was found in 37% of cases. a relationship was sought using spearman's rank correlation coefficient. results: neither clinical breast density (rho = 0.16) nor clinical breast nodularity (rho = 0.01) related to the presence of high-risk histopathology in the underlying tissue. interestingly, breast nodularity increased with age (rho = 0.28), and clinical density and nodularity were inversely related (rho = -0.28). conclusion: we conclude that neither clinical breast density nor nodularity correlates with histopathology and that it is unlikely that a larger study would find a clinically useful correlation. therefore, a clinical examination should not be used to decide that high-risk histopathology is likely to be present in an individual woman's breast.
surgical decompression without transposition for ulnar neuropathy: factors determining outcome. fifty-one surgical decompressions without nerve transposition for ulnar neuropathy were performed in 46 patients. all of the patients were men with an average age of 59 years at the time of surgery. the follow-up range was between 5 and 32 months (average, 17.8 months). the disease involved the nondominant arm in 24 patients (52%) and was bilateral in 5 (11%). in 23 cases (50%), no predisposing condition could be identified, whereas 15 patients (33%) abused alcohol and 8 patients (17%) had diabetes mellitus. fifty-seven percent of the patients helped by surgery had symptoms for less than 1 year, whereas only 30% of patients with symptoms for more than 1 year had symptomatic improvement. the relative magnitude of the slowing of ulnar nerve conduction velocity across the elbow was not significantly correlated with the success of decompression in relieving symptoms. ulnar nerve conduction velocities across the elbow were 36.13 +/- 11.76 m/s in those responding to surgery and 38.97 +/- 13.91 m/s in those not responding (c = 0.06, df = 50, p less than 0.3). a total of 37 patients showed symptomatic improvement after decompression. simple decompression of the ulnar nerve was performed under local anesthesia without transposition of the nerve. in all of these cases, compression of the nerve occurred predominantly in the epicondylar groove. narrowing of the nerve in the groove was present in 28 cases (55%); scar tissue was found adhering to the nerve in 21 cases (41%); and two pseudoneuromas were found (4%). forty-one operations (80%) resulted in symptomatic improvement, typically noted by the patient within the first month postoperatively.
ph-adjustment and discomfort caused by the intradermal injection of lignocaine [published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar;46(3):242] one hundred adult day-case patients who required intravenous access had cannulae inserted using local anaesthesia with 1% lignocaine, 1% lignocaine with adrenaline or the corresponding ph-adjusted solutions. the local anaesthetic solutions were modified by the addition of 1 ml 8.4% sodium bicarbonate to 10 ml lignocaine. pain scores at different stages of cannulation were noted and showed a significant reduction after use of ph-adjusted solutions (p less than 0.02 for the plain lignocaine, and less than 0.001 for the lignocaine with adrenaline). modification of the ph of lignocaine solutions by the addition of sodium bicarbonate is a simple method significantly to reduce the discomfort caused by the infiltration of the local anaesthetic.
gallstones, cholecystitis and diabetes [published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 jul;173(1):72] findings from studies showing an increased incidence of gallstones in diabetic patients do not control for other variables, such as obesity. there is no proof that diabetic patients have more gallstones. gallstones do not cause diabetes mellitus. the principal gallbladder pathologic feature in diabetic patients is a functional deficit of uncertain etiologic factors, creating a large, flaccid, poorly emptying organ. bile acid and lipid composition are usually increased in diabetic patients. cholecystitis seems to be a more serious disease in diabetic patients, with worse infectious sequelae and more rapid disease progression. this conclusion has not been examined statistically. even with modern care, the complication rate for operations upon the biliary tract in patients with diabetes is increased. those with diabetes are generally older than other patients requiring cholecystectomy. systemic changes of aging partly explain increased morbidity and mortality. diabetic patients with symptomatic gallbladder disease usually require operation. risk of cholecystectomy in diabetic patients is similar to that in nondiabetics. prophylactic cholecystectomy for diabetic patients with "silent" gallstones was formerly recommended because of an apparent high risk of cholecystitis. until the natural history of gallstones in those with diabetes has been defined, such patients should be considered in danger of serious illness. the risk of acute cholecystitis in diabetic patients with stones is probably significant enough to warrant the performance of early cholecystectomy.
measurement of resistance versus flow in assessing efficiency of aortocoronary bypass grafts. measurement of flow in saphenous bypass grafts with an electromagnetic flowmeter is complicated and poorly reproducible. since coronary flow is largely dependent on variable factors the stable value of resistance seems more appropriate for comparison. a simple method has been developed for intraoperative measurement of resistance in the respective coronary bed. pressure is recorded in the saphenous graft by an electromanometer during continuous flushing with known amounts of blood, and resistance is calculated instantaneously. the procedure is very simple and takes less than one minute. the quality of the saphenous vein itself can be assessed simultaneously by the same method. resistances were measured during coronary surgery in over 500 saphenous grafts. the results were highly reproducible and comparable. excellent flows can be expected if resistance is below 200 peripheral resistance units (pru); if this is over 800 pru flow is very poor.
apocrine mammary carcinoma. a clinicopathologic study of 72 cases. apocrine carcinoma (ac) is an uncommon, poorly characterized type of breast tumor. in this review, 55 patients with intraductal (id) ac and 17 patients with infiltrating (if) ac were analyzed retrospectively to define the histologic features and clinical course of this neoplasm. recurrences in the breast occurred in 3 of 20 id-ac patients treated by biopsy alone, but not in the 2 patients who received local radiation therapy after biopsy. one patient with id-ac had axillary metastases at the time of treatment by mastectomy and died of disease five years later. the remaining patients with id-ac treated by mastectomy have remained disease free. one of the three patients with if-ac treated by biopsy alone died of disease, and one of two patients with if-ac treated by biopsy and radiotherapy was alive with carcinoma. twelve patients with if-ac were treated by mastectomy. ten of them were recurrence free at the time of last observation. more than one-third of the cases of id-ac and if-ac were detected by mammography alone. survival analysis of if-ac cases compared with nonapocrine duct carcinoma cases matched for stage revealed no statistical difference in estimated recurrence-free survival or estimated survival probability. ac is a distinct morphologic entity with a natural history similar to that of nonapocrine ductal carcinoma.
electroencephalographic changes during brief cardiac arrest in humans. slowing and attenuation of the dominant frequency of the electroencephalogram (eeg) are changes commonly used to detect cerebral ischemia. to assess the validity of this method, the eegs recorded during 93 episodes of circulatory arrest in ten normothermic, lightly anesthetized patients undergoing implantation of automatic internal cardioverting defibrillators (aicds) were visually inspected for change. the number of events recorded for each patient varied from 5 to 18 and was a function of the duration and success of aicd testing in each patient. in 82 of 93 (88%) episodes, eeg changes were identified, and occurred an average of 10.2 s after the last normal heart beat. of these 82, 67 (82%) illustrated slowing and attenuation. however, 15 (18%) of the hemodynamic events showed changes not previously described as indicative of cerebral ischemia: 6 (7%) showed a loss of delta-wave activity and 9 (11%) showed an increase in the amplitude of theta activity. time to onset of these unusual changes (10.6 and 9.2 s, respectively) was not significantly different from that for eeg slowing and attenuation (10.2 s). five of the ten subjects showed more than one pattern of eeg change. there was no significant difference in the time to onset of eeg change among individual patients, and neither were there differences in patterns of change associated with particular anesthetic agents. these results indicate that in normothermic, lightly anesthetized individuals, cerebral ischemia may cause changes in eeg pattern other than slowing and attenuation of dominant frequencies. these alternative patterns should be recognized as indicative of cerebral ischemia when intraoperative eeg monitoring is performed.
immediate reproducibility of electrically induced sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia before and during antiarrhythmic therapy the immediate reproducibility of sustained ventricular tachycardia induction was evaluated prospectively during 106 studies performed in 53 patients with clinical sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia. programmed electrical stimulation was performed twice, using the same protocol during 53 drug-free studies and 53 subsequent studies on antiarrhythmic therapy. sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was reproduced in 104 (98%) of the 106 studies. there was no significant difference in the incidence of reproducible tachycardia in the drug-free state compared with that observed during treatment with different classes of antiarrhythmic drugs. an increase in the number of extrastimuli was required to reinitiate the tachycardia in 9 (11%) of 83 studies in which single or double extrastimuli were initially required to induce the tachycardia. in 39 (37%) of 104 studies with reproducible tachycardia induction, the two tachycardias significantly differed in electrocardiographic (ecg) configuration and cycle length. these observations suggest that the overall reproducibility of ventricular tachycardia induction is sufficiently high to provide a reliable marker for evaluating the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. however, specific tachycardia characteristics such as cycle length and ecg configuration are more variable even within the same study and may be less useful in assessing the effects of subsequent interventions.
the frequency, causes and timing of death within 30 days of a first stroke: the oxfordshire community stroke project. in a prospective, community-based study of 675 consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke, of whom over 90% had computed tomography (ct) and/or necropsy examinations, 129 deaths occurred within 30 days of the onset of symptoms, a case fatality rate (cfr) of 19%. the 30 day cfr for patients with cerebral infarction was 10% (57 of 545, for primary intracerebral haemorrhage 52% (34 of 66), for subarachnoid haemorrhage 45% (15 of 33) and for those of uncertain pathological type 74% (23 of 31). the cfr for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 33% compared with 17% for those who had been independent pre-stroke. the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was not significantly greater (1.8, 95% confidence interval 0 to 4.3). there was a significant trend for cfr to increase with age (chi square for trend = 4.0, p less than 0.05). this relationship was found in those patients who had been functionally independent prestroke (chi square for trend = 7.9, p less than 0.005) but not in those who had been dependent pre-stroke (chi square for trend = 0.5, ns). the pattern of increasing cfr with increasing age amongst those who had been independent prestroke was seen particularly in patients with cerebral infarction (chi square for trend = 8.6, p less than 0.005). the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients with cerebral infarction who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 2.2 (95% confidence interval 1.2 to 4.1). fifty three percent of all deaths within 30 days of stroke were due to the direct neurological sequelae of the stroke.
clinical significance of the "palpable mass" in patients with muscle-infiltrating bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy. between 1976 and 1985, 132 patients with t2/t3/t4a bladder cancer underwent cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy (46 gy: 67 patients; 20 gy: 65 patients). after a median time of 41 months, 62 patients were alive; 51 had died from recurrent bladder cancer and 19 from intercurrent disease without recurrence of their malignancy. distant metastases developed in 40 patients, accompanied in 5 cases by local recurrence. local recurrence was the first sign of relapse in 11 patients. in 3 patients the localisation of the relapse remained unknown. the corrected 5-year survival rate was 60%. t category and a palpable bladder tumour were independent pre-treatment prognostic factors in a cox regression analysis, together with the interval between initial diagnosis and cystectomy. the presence of a palpable tumour before the start of treatment was associated with a particularly poor prognosis in t3/t4a tumours, whereas the survival of patients with non-palpable t3/t4a tumours was similar to that of patients with t2 bladder cancer. another important prognostic factor was post-irradiation stage reduction (no residual muscle infiltration in the cystectomy specimen). significantly more patients with non-palpable bladder tumours experienced post-radiation stage reduction than did those with a palpable tumour. however, the prognostic value of stage reduction was statistically significant only in patients with palpable bladder tumours.
cytostatic and cytotoxic effects of recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha on sensitive human melanoma cells in vitro may result in selection of cells with enhanced markers of malignancy. monolayer cultures of the human melanoma cell lines stml-12, stml-11, stml-14 (third, respectively, twenty-fifth subculture), and skmel-28 derived from specimens representing different stages of tumor progression were treated with 10-10,000 u/ml rtnf-alpha applied for 72 h. the effects of rtnf-alpha on cell proliferation, dna synthesis, cell viability, cloning efficiency, cell division, cell morphology, and the immunophenotype were studied in triplicate experiments. the cell line stml-14(3) revealed a significantly dose-dependent reduction of growth due to both cytostatic and cytotoxic activities of rtnf-alpha as well as a decrease of ce. increased numbers of cells in prophase were observed 24 h after addition of r-tnf-alpha. in addition, dislocation of chromosomes in the metaphase, formation of micronuclei, and dose-dependent increases of cells exhibiting micronuclei and the dna amount per cell were detected at the end of treatment. on the other hand, only a slight sensitivity to the anti-proliferative effect of rtnf-alpha was observed with stml-14(25) and skmel-28, whereas stml-12 and stml-11 were significantly resistant. the last four cell lines were serially subcultivated and presented common phenotypic patterns with more malignant characteristics than the cell line stml-14(3) before treatment. overall, rtnf-alpha enhanced the malignant immunophenotype of the cell lines tested. it increased the expression of the "late" melanoma progression markers a.10.33 and a.1.43, and ki67, and it decreased the expression of the "early" progression marker k.1.2. the expression of hla-i, hla-dr, and icam-1 was also enhanced after rtnf-alpha treatment, whereas in contrast to other cytokines, rtnf-alpha did not induce the de novo expression of hla-dr in hla-dr-negative melanoma cell lines. these findings indicate that rtnf-alpha induces cytostasis and decreases cell viability of certain rtnf-alpha-sensitive melanoma cells. these effects may result in selection of rtnf-alpha-non-sensitive human melanoma cell populations with higher proliferation rates and a more aggressive immunophenotype in vitro.
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and sudden deaths among young adults in wayne county. based on postmortem records at the wayne county medical examiners' office from 1982 to 1986, autopsy results indicated that the deaths of 129 persons aged 20-34 resulted from heart disease: 51 of these deaths were attributed to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd), 29 to hypertensive cardiovascular disease, 28 to cardiomyopathy, and 21 to other cardiac causes. the majority of the deaths due to ascvd occurred among men, both black and white, followed by black women, and the incidence increased with age. all of these deaths due to ascvd were sudden and accounted for all deaths due to ischemic heart disease in this age group among wayne county residents. diabetes mellitus, left ventricular hypertrophy, a history of seizures, and the recent ingestion of alcohol were all found to be associated with sudden death from ascvd in this group. obesity did not seem to be a significant factor. these data suggest that ascvd is not rare as a cause of death in young adults and some of the risk factors identified in older subjects also operate in this age group.
urgent care center pediatric telephone advice. pediatric telephone advice is sought frequently by members of the community. this study was undertaken to evaluate the quality and accuracy of pediatric telephone advice given by free-standing urgent care centers. one hundred such facilities were telephoned and advice was requested by a research assistant. a case was presented that could have represented a pediatric medical emergency. overall only 17 centers gave adequate advice. the data suggest that under some circumstances free-standing urgent care center pediatric telephone advice may be inaccurate and inappropriate. workable policies and protocols for pediatric telephone advice should be instituted by these facilities.
results and complications of angioplasty in fibromuscular disease. percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta) was used to treat 66 patients with 85 renal artery stenoses due to fibromuscular dysplasia. the hypertension was refractory to medical management in 46 patients, and the initial success rate was 100%. clinical follow-up has been obtained in all patients, who were followed for as long as 121 months. the recurrence rates were 8% of lesions and 10% of patients. cumulative patency rate predicted for 10 years was 87.07%. the mean systolic pressure decreased by 52 mm hg and the mean diastolic pressure decreased by 35 mm hg in response to treatment. twenty-six patients (39%) were cured, 39 (59%) were classified as improved, and one (2%) did not respond to pta. fourteen of the patients also had elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels. renal function was improved in 86% of the patients and stabilized in 14% of the patients. analysis of the long-term results suggests that pta should be the initial treatment for choice of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia in the renal arteries.
use of the fistula assessment monitor to detect stenoses in access fistulae. twenty-three unselected hemodialysis patients with functioning access arteriovenous fistulae were studied prospectively to determine the best technique for detecting stenoses within the fistulae. combined clinical assessment and fistula assessment monitoring were compared with transbrachial angiography. fistula assessment monitoring was more accurate (96%) than combined clinical assessment (accuracy, 52%) in stenosis detection. complications of angiography occurred in 17% of patients; there were no complications of fistula assessment monitoring. fistula assessment monitoring was better than combined clinical assessment in predicting clinical outcome for arteriovenous fistulae over 6 months and was as good as angiography. routine fistula assessment monitoring could reduce inappropriate angiography and detect clinically significant silent stenoses. it is an ideal method for monitoring arteriovenous access fistulae.
sudden cervical pain: spontaneous cervical epidural hematoma. three cases of cervical epidural hematoma are reported. acute neck pain usually associated with a mild effort, closely followed by radicular pain and a neurologic deficit below the lesion is the typical presentation of this extremely rare and difficult diagnosis. as prognosis depends on preoperative neurologic state, the authors emphasize the importance of prompt identification of this lesion. the diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography, and emergency neurosurgical laminectomy is mandatory.
when epilepsy masquerades as heart disease. awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis. autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations, including cardiac arrhythmias, sudden death, anginal chest pain, neurogenic pulmonary edema, and symptoms of pheochromocytoma. either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms. a better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis, because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing.
tumoral thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses: preoperative diagnosis using magnetic resonance phase imaging. intracranial, dural-based neoplasms will not infrequently invade adjacent venous sinuses. therefore, the preoperative diagnosis of venous invasion is important, as it will alter the surgical approach to the lesion. magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive means of visualizing the cerebral venous sinuses. the preoperative diagnosis of venous thrombosis can, however, be difficult and confusing with conventional spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging because of variable appearances produced by blood clot degradation products as well as flowing blood. phase magnetic resonance imaging is a simple method that can be acquired simultaneously with conventional spin-echo sequences, and is based primarily on whether protons are stationary or moving. in the context of venous sinus occlusion, phase imaging can demonstrate the presence or absence of blood flow more easily than spin-echo imaging. three cases of dural-based neoplasms are presented that demonstrate the utility of phase imaging in diagnosing tumoral occlusion of the venous sinuses.
pressor systems in hypertension and congestive heart failure. role of vasopressin [clinical conference] elevated peripheral vascular resistance, which characterizes hypertension and congestive heart failure (the latter regardless of absolute blood pressure level) is maintained to a large extent by the combined effects of three major neurohormonal pressor mechanisms: the renin-angiotensin system, the sympathoadrenal system, and arginine vasopressin. blockade of one of these mechanisms may lead to compensatory stimulation of the others, thus offsetting in part the hemodynamic benefits of a specific intervention. combination therapy, designed to attack all three systems (with use of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, a sympathetic blocker such as clonidine, and an antagonist of the vasopressor action of vasopressin), may help in the treatment of such cases. to illustrate this strategy, two experimental studies, one case of malignant hypertension, and one case of congestive heart failure are presented.
influence of catheter technology and adjuvant medication on acute complications in percutaneous coronary angioplasty. we report on the complication rates in 660 consecutive coronary angioplasties (725 lesions) performed using four procedures that differed with respect to catheter technology and adjuvant medication. after the ptca regimen in our laboratory had been changed from conventional steerable systems to the monorail technique, we observed a significant increase in the incidence of transient vessel occlusions from 2.6% to 7.7%, of permanent occlusions from 3.6% to 8.8%, and of intracoronary thrombus-formation from 2.6% to 5.5%. this was associated with the frequent observation of thrombotic material on the partially teflon-coated guidewires. coronary perfusion with urokinase (1,670-6,670 u/min) lead to a further increase in the complication rates (10.4%/10.3%/6.5%). our present percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca)-regimen (monorail technique with p.e.t. balloons, fully silicon-coated guidewires, no urokinase) shows an incidence of 3.8% for intermittent and recurrent coronary occlusions and 1.9% for permanent occlusions. urokinase did not prevent intracoronary thrombus formation with the monorail technique. furthermore, we suspect that in the case of ptca-induced regional intimal dissection, fibrinolysis can prevent reestablishment of intima adherence to the vessel wall. because five procedural deaths were observed in the 212 patients treated with i.c. urokinase as opposed to three deaths in the 448 procedures without urokinase, we feel that i.c. urokinase in ptca is a potentially harmful regimen. we suggest that the monorail technique should be performed with fully silicon-coated guidewires and without urokinase.
plasma epinephrine levels in resuscitation with cardiopulmonary bypass. since the highest plasma epinephrine levels have been recorded during resuscitation, we evaluated the isolated effect of cardiac arrest upon adrenomedullary secretion. we determined plasma epinephrine in dogs resuscitated with cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) after cardiac arrest periods of 12 (cpb-12; n = 4) or 16 min (cpb-16; n = 5). through 2 h of cpb and the following 6 h of critical care, there was no difference between cpb-12 and cpb-16 regarding most cardiopulmonary functional variables. plasma epinephrine was markedly elevated immediately after initiation of cpb (p less than .01 at 1 min cpb vs. basal) and returned rapidly to basal concentrations. comparison of plasma epinephrine levels between cpb and standard cpr groups showed that responses to cardiac arrest were similar (p greater than .05 at 1 min cpb vs. 11.5 min cpr). we conclude that cardiac arrest is the main or sole determinant of the plasma epinephrine elevation of resuscitation.
weight gain with breast cancer adjuvant treatment. available information suggests that individuals with breast cancer gain weight during adjuvant treatment and that this weight gain may be associated with poor prognosis. exploration of the factors which affect weight gain may aid in developing weight control interventions for these patients. to determine the factors which are associated with weight gain, 32 women undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy were followed over 2 years from the beginning of adjuvant treatment. measures of psychologic functioning and self-reports of exercise levels and eating were assessed every 2 months during the course of treatment. sixty-nine percent of the women gained weight over treatment, resulting in a significant weight gain for the group as a whole. weight gain was correlated positively with several psychologic measures but not with assessed biologic measures. a multiple-regression equation using psychologic/behavioural measures of emotional discharge, logical analysis, affective regulation, interpersonal sensitivity, average number of symptoms, and obsessive compulsiveness accounted for 58% of the variance in overall weight gain. at 2 years of follow-up, 27 women had gained weight for an average of 6.03 kg. the coping style of logical analysis emerged as a significant predictor of disease recurrence, accounting for 28% of the variance in weight gain at 2 years. the results are discussed in terms of identification of women likely to gain weight during adjuvant treatment, directions for future research, and development of interventions to control weight gain.
in vitro and in vivo testing of a new valved intravascular catheter design. long-term intravascular catheterization carries a finite risk of catheter occlusion. a catheter tip valve design is presented (buchwald-wigness, strato medical corporation, beverly, ma) which incorporates features designed to decrease the risk of thromboembolism and reduce the need for maintenance procedures. aspiration and infusion are controlled by separate valves, making it possible to engineer optimized inlet and outlet parameters. the outlet valve is an elastic sleeve expanded around the sidewall outlet ports which opens under injection pressure. the inlet valve is a tubular elastic element compressed against the inlet port from within the lumen, opening under aspiration pressure. a series of valves were prototyped with outlet pressures ranging from 2 to 100" h2o, and inlet pressures ranging from -40-70" h2o, and flowrates at 36" h2o of greater than 1,400 ml/hr. dog implants of two prototypes with outlet valve pressures of 10" h2o, and inlet pressures of -40" h2o, demonstrated that dormant periods of up to 7.5 weeks could be achieved without detectable blood cell entry into the lumen. no significant hemolysis was observed in blood samples aspirated with a 6 cc syringe (8% scored "slightly hemolyzed" vs. 44% with the nonvalved controls) indicating that a hemodialysis application is likely.
survivorship analysis of total knee arthroplasty. cumulative rates of survival of 9200 total knee arthroplasties. from 1971 through 1987, 9200 total knee arthroplasties were performed at the mayo clinic. actuarial analysis was used to estimate cumulative rates of survival. use of a proportional-hazard, general linear model led to the identification of four independent variables that were associated with a significantly lower risk of failure: primary total knee arthroplasty, a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis, an age of sixty years or more, and use of a condylar prosthesis with a metal-backed tibial component. when all four of these favorable variables were present (without regard for radiographic changes and non-disabling symptoms), the probability of an implant being in situ was 97 per cent at both five and ten years.
the cutaneous manifestations in children with familial mediterranean fever (recurrent hereditary polyserositis). a six-year study. in a six-year study of 46 children with familial mediterranean fever (recurrent hereditary polyserositis), 20 children (43 per cent) developed cutaneous manifestations. ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease. twelve children (26 per cent) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children (13 per cent) had nine episodes of henoch-schonlein purpura. other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face, and/or trunk, angioneurotic oedema, diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin, raynaud's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule. the mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6/patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4/patient/year after colchicine therapy (p = 0.0005). the high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial mediterranean fever.
liver cirrhosis: changes of doppler waveform of hepatic veins [published erratum appears in radiology 1991 aug;100(2):586] the authors compared the doppler ultrasonographic pattern of hepatic veins (hvs) in a group of 60 patients affected by liver cirrhosis and in 65 healthy subjects comparable for sex and age to (a) detect possible differences in hv waveform in the two groups and (b) investigate the relationship of these differences with the severity of the disease (according to child-pugh classification) and the modifications of systemic hemodynamics. the waveform of hvs was arbitrarily classified into three patterns: hv0, a normal waveform; hv1, lower oscillations without the reversed phase; and hv2, completely flat waveform. the resistivity index of the superior mesenteric artery, reflecting the peripheral splanchnic impedance and the hyperdynamic circulation, was also measured in a subgroup of 45 cirrhotic patients. the waveform of hvs in all healthy subjects corresponded to the hv0 pattern. among cirrhotic patients, hv0 was found in 30 (50%), hv1 in 19 (31.7%), and hv2 in 11 (81.3%). the severity of functional impairment was greatest in the hv2 group and least in the hv0 group. this was significantly correlated with the decrease of the resistivity index in the superior mesenteric artery in the subgroup of 45 patients. changes in the normal hv waveform could be considered a useful adjunctive tool for the noninvasive evaluation of liver disease. the pathophysiology of these changes in hv blood flow is still unclear. the significant correlation with the severity of the disease and with the decrease of splanchnic resistances indicates that these changes in the hv waveform occur in the presence of marked rearrangements of liver tissue and of hyperdynamic systemic circulation.
cefotaxime and aminoglycoside treatment of meningitis caused by gram-negative enteric organisms. we reviewed cases of gram-negative enteric bacillary meningitis in infants and children treated with cefotaxime at texas children's hospital from january, 1984, through june, 1989. seventeen of 20 children had an underlying condition predisposing to the development of meningitis. the etiologic organisms in these 20 children (2 days to 12 years old; median, 12 days old) were klebsiella sp, 9; escherichia coli, 4; enterobacter cloacae, 3; citrobacter diversus, 2; other, 2. with the exception of one isolate of acinetobacter, all isolates were susceptible to cefotaxime. in addition to cefotaxime 17 children received an aminoglycoside intravenously. children with meningitis caused by klebsiella sp. or non-klebsiella organisms received cefotaxime for 31 +/- 14 and 37 +/- 17 days, respectively. aminoglycosides were administered for 16 +/- 10 days in both groups. five children in each group also received intraventricular doses (1 to 25) of an aminoglycoside (9) or colistimethate (1). the mean durations of positive lumbar, ventricular cerebrospinal fluid or brain abscess cultures were 5.8 +/- 4.7 and 7.2 +/- 5.0 days after start of therapy in the klebsiella and non-klebsiella meningitis patients, respectively. only three children were normal at the time of discharge or follow-up. gram-negative enteric meningitis remains difficult to treat despite the excellent in vitro activity of cefotaxime against gram-negative enterics, in part as a result of the predisposing conditions resulting in the development of this infection.
genital and anal conditions confused with child sexual abuse trauma. examination of a child with genital or anal disease may give rise to suspicion of sexual abuse. dermatologic, traumatic, infectious, and congenital disorders may be confused with sexual abuse. seven children referred to us are representative of such confusion.
lipoprotein-related coronary risk factors in patients with angiographically defined coronary artery disease: relation to number of stenosed arteries. to determine whether an index estimating antagonism between low density lipoprotein (ldl) and high density lipoprotein (hdl) would improve separation between groups with and without coronary artherosclerosis, patients undergoing coronary catheterization (35 women and 99 men) were analysed for total cholesterol (tc), hdl cholesterol (hdlc), apolipoprotein a (apo a) and apolipoprotein b (apo b). the subjects were categorized as groups 0, 1, 2 or 3 according to the number of stenosed arteries (greater than 75% areal stenosis). thirty of the patients showed no significant coronary atherosclerosis (group 0). serum apo b and tc concentrations were directly related to the number of stenosed vessels, whereas the concentrations of apo a and hdlc were negatively correlated with the number of stenosed arteries. an 'atherogenic index' (ath index) calculated as the product of serum concentrations of apo b, and tc minus hdlc divided by the product of apo a and hdlc, proved more satisfactory than individual lipoprotein components for discrimination between subjects with and without stenosis. accordingly, identification of coronary groups may be improved by using the ath index.
coronary ostial reconstruction: technical issues. coronary ostial reconstruction may be the preferred alternative to reestablish antegrade myocardial revascularization in patients with isolated ostial stenosis. the technical steps of reconstruction are described. the ultrasonic aspirator is a helpful implement in the dissection of the left main and the proximal right coronary arteries. satisfactory results of coronary ostial reconstruction in the current era seem to fulfill its promise.
caliber-persistent artery of the stomach (dieulafoy's vascular malformation). caliber-persistent artery of the stomach (also known as cirsoid aneurysm, dieulafoy's lesion, and submucosal arterial malformation) is clinically manifested as recurrent, massive, often fatal hematemesis. the lesion often is not seen endoscopically. left gastric angiography in one patient with hematemesis showed a convoluted and ectatic artery in the gastric fundus, which proved to be caliber-persistent artery of the stomach on pathological examination. the tortuosity of the abnormal vessel in this condition has been attributed to artefactual contraction of the stomach following excision and formalin fixation. this is the first reported case in which a pathologically proven lesion has been clearly visualized by angiography. this demonstrates that the submucosal vessel is truly and not artifactually sinuous. it is proposed that angiographic demonstration of a nontapering, convoluted artery in the territory of the left gastric artery is highly suggestive of caliber-persistent artery of the stomach.
preventing postoperative acute bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract. two hundred and ninety-eight critically ill patients at risk for the development of postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding were randomized into three groups. the first group comprised 85 patients who received meciadanol, a new bioflavonoid, 500 milligrams every six hours through a nasograstric tube; the second group comprised 100 patients who received sucralfate (crushed tablets), 1,000 milligrams every six hours through a nasogastric tube, and the third group comprised 113 patients who received an antacid (maalox [magnesium aluminum hydroxide gel]) through a nasogastric tube at an initial dose of 15 milliliters every hour. the gastric ph was measured hourly and titrated to a ph greater than or equal to 4.0 in patients in the group receiving the antacid. the gastric ph was measured every two hours in the other two groups. bleeding in the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract was determined visually (frank blood in gastric contents) or by guaiac testing. bleeding occurred in seven patients receiving meciadanol, nine receiving sucralfate and six receiving the antacid. the difference in rates of bleeding was not statistically significant. correlation between the severity of illness index and the development of bleeding was poor, at least in the low and intermediate index range. in contrast, there was a strong correlation between the age of the patient and the development of bleeding. only one patient younger than 50 years had bleeding develop. apparently, meciadanol exerts its action by a mechanism other than ph control. it may, therefore, fill an important gap in the ability to prevent postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding.
botulinum vs adjustable suture surgery in the treatment of horizontal misalignment in adult patients lacking fusion. thirty patients were treated with either botulinum toxin or adjustable suture surgery in a prospective, randomized clinical trial. all patients had horizontal deviations greater than 10 prism diopters and absent fusion. seventeen patients were assigned to toxin treatment, and 13 were assigned to surgical treatment. follow-up at 6 months after either procedure indicated that surgery was superior, with patient alignment showing a 92.7% average net change, compared with a 50.50% net change in the botulinum-treated group. there was no difference in response between those patients with a starting deviation of 20 pd or less and greater than 20 pd in the surgery group. however, in the botulinum-treated group, those patients with a starting deviation of 20 pd or less seemed to show better responses than those patients with greater than 20 pd. patients with esotropia showed an 88.89% change with surgery and a 51.55% change with toxin treatment. patients with exotropia had a 95.83% change with surgery but a 50.3% change with toxin treatment. since we had 20 patients with exotropia and 10 patients with esotropia, a more formal comparison would require larger numbers.
association of disease-free survival and percent of ideal dose in adjuvant breast chemotherapy. the relationship between percent of ideal dose and disease-free survival was examined in 256 stage ii and iii patients who participated in a 2-year breast adjuvant chemotherapy trial consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (cmf) given postoperatively. when analyzed analogously to previous work, the results confirmed a dose-response relationship: that is, there appeared to be an improved disease-free survival for patients receiving higher doses of adjuvant chemotherapy. the major criticism of such an analysis is its bias. this bias was addressed by considering only patients who were still receiving therapy at 6, 12, and 24 months; then, the dose-response relationship was no longer seen. although causality cannot be inferred, the apparent differences in disease-free survival among the dose groups can be attributed to recurrences in the first 2 years among patients receiving lower doses of chemotherapy.
can histological assessment predict the outcome in interstitial cystitis? in a retrospective study we compared the outcome of 39 patients with interstitial cystitis to the histological findings at initial diagnostic bladder biopsy. the degree of inflammation and fibrosis and the mast cell counts were assessed on each biopsy. the prognostic relevance of the clinical features of age, duration of symptoms, frequency, nocturia, pain and bladder capacity was assessed. the study showed no statistical correlation between the severity of histological findings at diagnosis and the eventual outcome of the disease. over 50% of patients with severe histological abnormalities responded to conservative treatment. although the majority of patients with mild pathological changes responded to conservative treatment, some did require surgical intervention. the clinical features of pain, nocturia and bladder capacity showed significant differences between the 2 patient groups. however, the former 2 features are subject to many variables and the latter probably has too wide a range to be useful as a prognostic indicator. only the response of patients to conservative treatment will indicate those who are not being helped and who may eventually require surgical treatment.
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology. a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy. these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms, fever, and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis. at the time of operation, a normal appendix was removed, and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted. the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient, and the patient remained asymptomatic. we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents. the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed.
human leukoagglutinating antibody evokes cooperative leukotriene synthesis in pulmonary microvasculature. model of transfusion-related acute lung injury. leukoagglutinating antibodies have been implicated in the development of transfusion-related acute lung injury. in the present study, human neutrophil leukotriene generation was provoked by an anti-5b immunoglobulin g, isolated from a multiparous donor plasma that caused noncardiogenic lung edema during transfusion therapy. in 5b-positive polymorphonuclear neutrophils (pmns), the antibody stimulated marked arachidonic acid metabolism, dependent on the presence of plasma as the complement source. quantity and profile of lipid mediators (leukotriene b4 and its omega-oxidation products, 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid, and nonenzymatic hydrolysis products of leukotriene a4) corresponded to those repeatedly described after pmn in vitro stimulation with the artificial calcium ionophore a23187. anti-5b challenge of pmns sequestered in the microvasculature of perfused rabbit lungs did, however, induce a markedly modified metabolite profile. nonenzymatic hydrolysis products of leukotriene a4 were not detected, and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid was markedly reduced. in contrast, cysteinyl leukotrienes were measured as predominant compounds, with rapid appearance of leukotriene c4 and more protracted generation of leukotriene e4. leukotriene b4 and its omega-oxidation products were released with similar kinetics, but in lower amounts, as compared with the isolated pmn stimulation. anti-5b challenge of pmns coincubated with pulmonary artery endothelial cells in vitro, but not stimulation of either cell type alone, provoked marked generation of cysteinyl leukotrienes. these findings suggest modulation of pmn 5-lipoxygenase metabolism in favor of leukotriene a4 transfer to adjacent acceptor cells with subsequent enzymatic conversion to cysteinyl leukotrienes under conditions of lung vascular sequestration. endothelial cells appear to serve as predominant cooperative cells under circumstances of blood-free lung perfusion. pmn-related transcellular eicosanoid synthesis may be involved in the pathogenesis of transfusion-evoked acute lung injury.
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation. a newly identified condition. a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described. in the affected family, at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life. three members of the family have been studied in detail. each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night. constipation was an associated symptom, in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation. clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance. the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity. anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter. two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain. the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes, consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis. in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline, isoprenaline, carbachol, dimethylpiperazinium, and electrical-field stimulation. immunohistochemical studies for substance p, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neuropeptide y, and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue. a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized.
coronary artery bypass operation in dialysis patients. to analyze the short- and long-term morbidity and mortality among maintenance dialysis patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass operations, we identified 25 such patients at the mayo clinic and three recently published large single-center studies that provided sufficient detail for meaningful comparison. two independent observers reviewed the new information with regard to pertinent historical, clinical, and laboratory data. the perioperative mortality was 20%. among the perioperative survivors, 1- and 2-year survival rates were 95% and 77%, respectively. the 3-year actuarial survival was 70%. uniformly, the symptoms diminished, and the need for antianginal medication was decreased. in the three other large published series, the perioperative mortality ranged from 3 to 20%, and coronary artery bypass performed earlier after the onset of the symptoms seemed to result in a lower perioperative mortality. we conclude that elective coronary artery bypass in dialysis patients is associated with acceptable short-term morbidity and mortality and effective relief of symptoms. surgically treated patients may have a survival advantage. thus, we advocate aggressive early investigation and surgical treatment of these patients.
electromagnetic treatment of shoulder periarthritis: a randomized controlled trial of the efficiency and tolerance of magnetotherapy. the potential benefit of magnetotherapy was investigated in 47 consecutive outpatients with periarthritis of the shoulder. using a controlled triple-blind study design, one group of patients received hot pack applications and passive manual stretching and pulley exercises; the other group received the same therapy plus magnetotherapy. treatment was administered three times a week. for a maximum of three months, a standardized treatment protocol was used. there was no significant improvement in pain reduction or in range of motion with electromagnetic field therapy. after 12 weeks of therapy, the patients who received magnetotherapy showed mean pain scores of 1.5 (+/- .61 sd) at rest, 2.2 (+/- .76 sd) on movement, and 1.9 (+/- .94 sd), on lying, compared to scores for the control group of 1.4 (+/- .65 sd), 2.2 (+/- .7 sd), and 1.9 (+/- .95 sd), respectively. linear pain scale scores improved from 71 to 21 for both groups. at 12 weeks the gain in range of motion was mean 109 degrees +/- 46.8 in patients receiving electromagnetic field therapy, compared to 122 degrees +/- 33.4 for the controls (not significant). at entry, the functional handicap score was 53.5 for both groups. at 12 weeks, it was 24 for the magnetotherapy group and 17 for the control group (difference not significant). in conclusion, this study showed no benefit from magnetotherapy in the pain score, range of motion, or improvement of functional status in patients with periarthritis of the shoulder.
five-year postoperative results of cemented femoral arthroplasty in patients with systemic bone disease. to determine whether bone cellular abnormality affects the results of cemented femoral arthroplasty, 21 patients had biopsies of the iliac crest and femoral cortex at the time of surgery. roentgenographic and histomorphometric studies were used to characterize fibrous membrane formation, cancellous bone, calcar resorption, and bone turnover. patients with high bone turnover and decreased femoral thickness and density before surgery were at risk of developing calcar resorption and cancellous diaphyses, conditions that weaken proximal stem support and lead to early failure. these findings suggest that noncemented stems may be indicated in this group. another group, osteoporotic patients, suffered from osteoblastic insufficiency, which may be the indication for the use of cemented stems rather than noncemented stems, which require bony ingrowth.
the cellular biology of bone tumors. new knowledge in cell and molecular biology has begun to expand the understanding of the biology of osteosarcoma and ewing's sarcoma. studies on osteosarcomas have revealed abnormalities in the growth-inhibiting retinoblastoma gene, which may release cells from normal growth control. abnormalities in growth factor production or response tend to inappropriately activate cell growth. tumor cell dna content and cytogenetics may affect the diagnosis and prognostic grouping of osteosarcomas. in ewing's sarcomas, a characteristic translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 has been identified; this translocation is also found in malignant neuroepitheliomas. a variety of studies point to both neuroectodermal and mesenchymal origins for ewing's sarcomas. applications of new biologic knowledge and technology to clinical problems will lead to significant changes in the diagnosis, and perhaps in the treatment, of these tumors in the coming years. collaborations between community and referral center physicians and scientists are critical for continued progress.
coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma. thymic carcinoid tumors are unusual neoplasms that are different from thymomas. we report a case of coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis. the clinicopathological findings are discussed with a review of the literature.
role of visceral afferent mechanisms in functional bowel disorders. this report analyzes the clinical and physiological evidence supporting a role for altered visceral afferent mechanisms in the pathogenesis of two functional bowel syndromes: noncardiac chest pain and the irritable bowel syndrome. considerable recent evidence indicates that increased contractility is present only in a minority of patients and that hypercontractile episodes are not temporally related to abdominal pain. in contrast, altered sensation and motor reflexes in response to physiological stimuli, such as mechanical distention or acid, is common when appropriately investigated. the vagal and spinal afferent innervation mediates visceral sensation and is involved in multiple reflex loops regulating gastrointestinal effector function, such as motility and secretion. sensory input can be modulated peripherally at the afferent nerve terminal, at the level of prevertebral ganglia, the spinal cord, and the brainstem. an up-regulation of afferent mechanisms would result both in altered conscious perception of physiological stimuli and in altered motor reflexes. current evidence is consistent with an alteration in the peripheral functioning of visceral afferents and/or in the central processing of afferent information in the etiology of altered somatovisceral sensation and motor function observed in patients with functional bowel disease.
carbon dioxide laser vaporization of diaphragmatic metastases for cytoreduction of ovarian epithelial cancer. three patients with international federation of gynecology and obstetrics state iiic ovarian adenocarcinoma underwent co2 laser vaporization of large-volume (5-6 cm) and miliary right hemidiaphragmatic metastases at the conclusion of standard debulking surgery to effect optimal cytoreduction. destruction of diaphragmatic metastases was accomplished rapidly with no added morbidity or blood loss. the hand-held co2 laser is a useful modality for removal of isolated large- and small-volume diaphragmatic disease, particularly if only the peritoneum is involved, and avoids the morbidity that may accompany entry into the pleural space.
alterations of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals. cholinergic nasal hyperresponsiveness in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in muscarinic cholinergic receptors. radioligand receptor binding and in vitro autoradiographic studies of nasal mucosa in nonallergic (na) and allergic patients were performed to investigate this hypothesis. the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis. the 3h-(-)-quinuclidinylbenzilate binding to muscarinic receptors in human nasal mucosa membranes was saturable and of high affinity in all groups. no significant differences could be demonstrated between the subgroups of the na patients. in allergic patients the dissociation constants and receptor densities were significantly decreased in comparison with those of na and with those of control individuals. no differences in agonist binding or coupling of the muscarinic receptor to the effector system via the g protein could be observed in allergic patients. in vitro autoradiographic experiments demonstrated specific 3h-(-)-quinuclidinylbenzilate labeling of the glandular acini in na and allergic patients. no specific labeling could be observed in the epithelium, blood vessels, or connective tissue. in conclusion, the increased sensitivity and decreased muscarinic receptor number may reflect the cholinergic-induced hypersecretion in nasal allergy but are probably too small to explain the complex allergic reaction.
the butterfly rash and the malar flush. what diseases do these signs reflect? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders. systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs. in pellagra, symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body. erysipelas produces brawny, fiery red facial lesions, and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption. lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern, and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face. carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration, and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction. deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation.
middle cerebral artery strokes causing homonymous hemianopia: positron emission tomography. eight patients were evaluated with 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography between 3 and 30 days after isolated stroke involving the middle cerebral artery territory that caused homonymous hemianopia. diffuse hypometabolism was present throughout the damaged cerebral hemisphere, even in cortical areas not obviously ischemic by clinical examination or neuro-imaging. glucose metabolism in primary and association visual cortex of the damaged hemisphere was decreased by more than 47% (p less than 0.01). metabolism in the undamaged hemisphere was less profoundly affected, but significant decrements were found in calcarine (40%; p less than 0.01) and lateral occipital cortex (35%; p less than 0.05).
supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children: early disappearance and late recurrence the clinical course of 140 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome who had their initial episode of supraventricular tachycardia before 18 years of age was reviewed. among those whose tachycardia began at age 0 to 2 months, it disappeared in 93% and persisted in 7%. in 31%, it disappeared and reappeared at an average age of 8 years. among patients whose tachycardia was present after age 5 years, it was persistent in 78% at a mean follow-up period of 7 years. accessory connection location was mapped by electrophysiologic study in 87 patients and estimated by electrocardiography in 53 patients. there were no differences in tachycardia onset or recurrence based on accessory connection location. congenital heart defects were present in 37% of all patients, 23% of whom had ebstein's anomaly. among all patients who underwent cardiac catheterization, 63% of those with a congenital heart defect had a rightsided accessory connection, whereas 61% of patients with a normal heart had a left-sided connection (p less than 0.01). multiple accessory connections were found in 12% of patients with a congenital heart defect compared with 6% of those without such a defect. in conclusion: 1) supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome that begins in infancy may disappear, but it frequently recurs in later childhood; 2) if tachycardia is present after age 5 years, it persists in greater than 75% of patients; and 3) the location of the accessory connection does not affect the clinical course of tachycardia in children with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome.
evaluation of the pharmacokinetics and electrocardiographic effects of intravenous verapamil with intravenous calcium chloride pretreatment in normal subjects. to evaluate the effects of calcium pretreatment on the disposition and electrocardiographic effects of verapamil, 8 healthy male volunteers received treatment in each of 3 phases in a randomized, double-blind, crossover manner. phase i denoted 10 ml of 0.9% intravenous sodium chloride followed by 10 mg of intravenous verapamil; phase ii denoted 10 ml of 10% intravenous calcium chloride followed by 4 ml of 0.9% intravenous sodium chloride; and phase iii denoted 10 ml of 10% intravenous calcium chloride followed by 10 mg of intravenous verapamil. blood samples for the determination of verapamil concentrations were drawn at 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60 and 90 minutes, and at 2, 4, 6, 10 and 24 hours. blood pressure, heart rate and pr intervals were also measured at these times. pretreatment of verapamil with intravenous calcium did not alter the disposition of intravenous verapamil. blood pressure was not significantly altered in any treatment phase, although calcium tended to increase mean arterial pressure and verapamil abolished this effect. calcium had no significant affect on verapamil-induced pr prolongation (maximum percent change in pr interval: phase i = 19 +/- 11%, phase iii = 18 +/- 7%; time to maximal prolongation: phase i = 0.38 +/- 0.21 hours, phase iii = 0.37 +/- 0.26 hours; and area under the percent change in pr vs time curve: phase i = 15.5 +/- 10, phase iii = 21 +/- 9). verapamil caused a reflex increase in heart rate of similar magnitude in both phases i and iii (24 +/- 10% and 21 +/- 7%, respectively).
early-onset dementia and extrapyramidal disease: clinicopathological variant of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker or alzheimer's disease? a case of progressive dementia and extrapyramidal signs beginning at age 29, with a ten year course until death, is presented. necropsy examination showed an assortment of plaque types (including striatal plaques), neurofibrillary tangles, granulovacuolar degeneration, and depigmentation of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus. this case had pathological features found in both gerstmann-straussler-scheinker disease and in alzheimer's disease. while somewhat similar to several other cases with features of both diseases, it differs in the presence of dystonia and striatal plaques. although such cases may be difficult to categorize at present, they must be considered in the differential diagnosis of early onset dementia.
intra-abdominal abscesses in crohn's disease. we reviewed 22 patients who had intra-abdominal abscesses secondary to crohn's disease. a total of 29 abscesses were discovered. these included superficial and deep intraperitoneal as well as pelvic and retroperitoneal abscesses. diagnosis was aided by ultrasound and computer tomographic scanning. barium studies continue to play an important role in delineating the extent of bowel involvement and fistulization. treatment varied depending on the location and size of the abscess. the need for ultimate bowel resection was determined in the majority of cases by the presence of fistulization between the abscess cavity and the bowel. the terminal ileum or neoterminal ileum were almost always involved.
hepatic resection for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with removal of portal vein tumor thrombi. in 13 of 398 patients who underwent hepatectomy, tumor thrombi of the remnant portal vein was concomitantly removed by the balloon catheter method in 8, an open method under hepatic vascular exclusion in 1, and resection of the occlusive portal segment followed by portal reconstruction in 4. in 8 of these patients the liver was cirrhotic. the mode of hepatectomy consisted of bisegmetectomy or trisegmentectomy in 11, segmentectomy in one, and partial resection in one patient. two patients died of portal thrombosis or hepatic failure in the hospital. the mean survival in four patients was 12 months. seven are still alive (mean, 16 months). in the corresponding period, nine patients with occlusive tumor thrombi of the portal confluence were hospitalized without operation and survived up to 4 months (mean, 64 days) after detection of the tumoral occlusion. the causes of death of the nine patients were bleeding esophageal varices, rupture of the tumor, or hepatic failure. it was revealed that removal of tumor thrombi in the remnant portal vein contributes to (1) portal decompression, (2) feasibility of arterial embolization, and (3) increase in resectability of the main tumor. at present, this procedure might be regarded as an emergency procedure for the avoidance of the above lethal impendence, but it may open the door to an adjuvant therapy.
rapid analysis of carcinoembryonic antigen levels in gallbladder bile. identification of patients at high risk of colorectal liver metastasis recently it was found that immunoanalysis of carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) levels in gallbladder bile may be a sensitive method to detect colorectal liver metastases in humans. methods used in the past for the detection of cea in various body fluids were cumbersome and time consuming, requiring acid extraction, extensive dialysis, and column purification. single-step, solid-phase radioimmunoassays, designed specifically for serum cea analysis, were developed commercially to replace these methods. parameters and methodology necessary to adapt these kits for parameters and methodology necessary to adapt these kits for use with gallbladder bile are presented here. a combination of pretreatment procedures for bile, before radioimmunoassay, permit rapid, reproducible, and accurate measurement of cea levels in gallbladder bile.
a long terminal repeat-containing retrotransposon is mobilized during hybrid dysgenesis in drosophila virilis. a hybrid dysgenesis syndrome similar to those described in drosophila melanogaster occurs in drosophila virilis when a laboratory stock is crossed to a wild strain collected in the batumi region of georgia (u.s.s.r). mutations in various loci obtained during these crosses are presumably induced by the insertion of dna sequences. we have cloned an induced white mutation and characterized the insertion sequence responsible for the mutant phenotype. this sequence is a 10.6-kilobase (kb) transposable element we have named ulysses. this element is flanked by unusually large 2.1-kb long terminal repeats. ulysses also contains other landmarks characteristic of the retrotransposon family, such as a trna-binding site adjacent to the 5' long terminal repeat and open reading frames encoding putative products with homology to the reverse transcriptase, protease, and integrase domains typical of proteins encoded by vertebrate retroviruses. some of the mutations obtained do not contain a copy of the ulysses element at the mutant locus, suggesting that a different transposable element may be responsible for the mutation. therefore, ulysses may not be the primary cause of the entire dysgenic syndrome, and its mobilization may be the result of activation by an independent mobile element.
clinical diagnostic considerations on cocaine abuse. following a review of the research literature on the psychophysiological effects of cocaine, a study is described of a group of 120 cocaine addicts. of the 120 patients, 10 (8.33%) exhibited fleeting, unformed, organic delusions and hallucinations. case reports of the 10 cases are presented. the quality of the adverse subjective effects of cocaine is emphasized, and the differential diagnosis between cocaine delusional disorder and paranoid schizophrenia is discussed. guidelines for a more accurate differential diagnosis are provided.
community hospital carotid endarterectomy in patients over age 75. we compared the prevalence of stroke and death in 133 patients aged 75 and older in whom 170 carotid endarterectomies were performed with that in 501 patients less than age 75 in whom 640 carotid endarterectomies were performed. there were three strokes (2%) in patients aged 75 and older and nine strokes (1%) in younger patients (p = 0.7). there were 8 deaths (5%) in patients aged 75 and older and 14 deaths (2%) in younger patients (p = 0.1). after controlling for the possible confounding effects of diabetes, prior stroke, history of angina, prior carotid artery disease, previous vascular surgery, history of myocardial infarction, preoperative hypertension requiring medication, and female gender, a logistic regression model showed that patients aged 75 and older were no more likely to have a stroke or death than patients under age 75. we conclude that age alone is not a contraindication to the safe performance of carotid endarterectomy in the community hospital.
localization of stereotactic targets by microrecordings of thalamic somatosensory evoked potentials. to improve the localization of stereotactic targets, somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) were recorded from the thalamus and subthalamic area using a specially designed semimicroelectrode in 61 patients and a conventional "macroelectrode" in 17 patients. by means of the semimicroelectrode, median nerve stimulation evoked two distinct seps, consisting of a diphasic wave with a huge positivity restricted to the nucleus ventrocaudalis (vc) and a triphasic wave of lower amplitude with a major negativity in the ventral part of the nucleus ventrointermedius (vim) and nucleus ventrooralis posterior (vop) as well as the subthalamic lemniscal pathway. the vim-vc junction could thus be clearly delineated by an abrupt transition of seps from one type to the other with a precision of 1 mm. the parvicellular part of the vc (vcpc), situated in its basal region, was distinguishable from the vc proper by a significant reduction of the positivity elicited by stimulation of the median nerve and by a rapid growth of a diphasic seps to stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve. in the other thalamic nuclei, stimulation of the median nerve elicited triphasic seps of a very small amplitude, suggesting a volume conduction current from the lemniscal pathway. with the macroelectrode, the positivity in the vc was sensitive to electrode manipulation and the thalamic nuclei could not be distinctly outlined. sep monitoring using the semimicroelectrode significantly improved the precision of target localization, which allowed minimizing of the volume of the therapeutic lesion without losing surgical effectiveness, while avoiding complications associated with increased penetration of the coagulating electrode. it is suggested that recording serial thalamic seps with the semimicroelectrode is a practical method to refine stereotactic targets in the thalamus.
acetazolamide-responsive vestibulocerebellar syndrome: clinical and oculographic features. five patients who presented with long-standing episodic vertigo had ocular motor signs localizing to the vestibulocerebellum. in each patient, the episodic vertigo was either abolished or markedly decreased in frequency and severity with acetazolamide therapy. in 4, other family members had identical symptoms and signs. this syndrome is 1 of the few treatable causes of chronic episodic vertigo.
regulation of insulin, epidermal growth factor, and transforming growth factor-alpha levels by growth factor-degrading enzymes. the mechanisms by which growth factors are degraded and the role this process plays in the regulation of cell growth are not well understood. insulin degradation is believed to be mediated by a specific metalloprotease, insulin-degrading enzyme (ide). we have previously shown that ide can also degrade transforming growth factor-alpha (tgf alpha), but not epidermal growth factor (egf), in vitro. this selectivity was surprising, since tgf alpha and egf are structurally similar and bind to the same receptor with comparable affinities. using a spectrum of protease inhibitors, we have now analyzed the degradation of tgf alpha, egf, and insulin by human hepatoma hepg2 cells. the results suggest that bacitracin-sensitive metalloproteases are involved in the degradation of tgf alpha and egf as well as insulin, and that the degradation of tgf alpha, but not egf, is mediated in part by ide. inhibiting the activity of these metalloproteases decreased growth factor depletion, suggesting that these enzymes play an important role in the control of extracellular growth factor levels. the existence of separate degradative pathways for egf and tgf alpha may explain how the two factors exert differential effects in some systems, and degradation of tgf alpha by ide would provide a possible mechanism for interaction between the insulin and tgf alpha/egf signalling systems.
in vitro anticolon antibody production by mucosal or peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with ulcerative colitis [published erratum appears in gut 1991 apr;32(4):460] serum anticolon antibody and in vitro anti-colon antibody production by peripheral blood and mucosal lymphocytes was investigated in patients with ulcerative colitis. the frequency of serum anticolon antibody was 71% in 41 patients with ulcerative colitis, estimated by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) using isolated rat colon epithelial cells. this finding confirms our previous report on the frequency of serum anticolon antibody detected by flow cytometry analysis. the estimated frequencies of igg anticolon antibody secreting cells were 1.5-12.5/10(6) cells in the colonic mucosa and 0.1-0.5/10(6) cells in peripheral blood, from patients with ulcerative colitis when epstein-barr virus (ebv) was used as a b cell polyclonal activator. poisson analysis of limiting dilution culture showed that about one per 140 igg cells in the colonic mucosa synthesised anticolon antibody. two monoclonal igg antibodies were obtained from ebv transformed anticolon antibody secreting cells by limiting dilution method. one reacted with goblet cells in the intestine, and the other reacted mainly with colonic epithelial cells. these results suggest that heterogeneous anticolon antibodies are present in patients with ulcerative colitis and that colonic mucosa may be the main source of anticolon antibody. local autoimmune reaction might have an important role in causing the inflammation of colonic mucosa in this disease.
intra-abdominal abscess in regional enteritis. intra-abdominal abscess (iaa) developed in 129 of 610 patients (21.2%) with crohn's disease confined to the small bowel. the location of the abscess was intraperitoneal (ipa) in 109 (17.9%) and retroperitoneal (rpa) in 20 (3.3%). there was a marked preponderance of male patients in the retroperitoneal group (ratio, 18:2) (p less than 0.0001). all 129 patients were operated on. thirteen of one hundred nine patients (12%) with ipa were reoperated on for recurrent abscess, and nine (8.2%) for other reasons. external fistula developed in 24 patients (22%) after simple incision and drainage. four (3.7%) died; one from hepatitis, and three from sepsis 5, 14, and 90 days after surgery. of the 20 patients with rpa, two (10%) were reoperated on for recurrent abscess and four (20%) for other reasons. external fistula developed in two patients (10%). there were no deaths in this group. a small number of patients with iaa complicating regional enteritis had persistent sepsis causing postoperative death, which is, however, six times lower than in our comparable series of crohn's (ileo)colitis.
hepatocyte expression of hbcag and serum hbeag in hepatitis b: comparison of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies during a trial of interferon. the distribution and quantitative expression of hbcag in relation to serum hbeag and liver histology before and after a trial of interferon in 50 patients with chronic type b hepatitis were evaluated using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. in general, both antisera showed a similar pattern in terms of the distribution of hbcag, with predominant localisation of hbcag in the cytoplasm in hbeag positive patients with chronic active hepatitis. semiquantitative analysis showed, however, that there was a higher degree of cytoplasmic expression of hbcag with polyclonal than with monoclonal anti-hbc. some of the hbeag positive patients with only a focal expression of hbcag in the cytoplasm by polyclonal anti-hbc showed no expression of hbcag with monoclonal anti-hbc. the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the histological features of chronic active hepatitis or the persistence of serum hbeag on follow up, suggesting that it did not result from non-specific or false positive staining. all of the hbeag negative patients with minimal histological changes or inactive cirrhosis were hbcag negative with both antisera. in conclusion, though both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies produced a quite similar distribution of hbcag in patients with chronic type b hepatitis, polyclonal antibody seemed to be more sensitive in detecting hbcag in the cytoplasm than did monoclonal anti-hbc, and the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the clinical and histological outcome.
surrogate receptor-mediated cellular cytotoxicity against malignant human glioma cells. a method for incorporating palmitate-derivatized antibody molecules into effector cells and the influence of these incorporated antibodies (surrogate receptors) on the lytic potential of peripheral blood lymphocytes is described. this surrogate receptor-mediated cellular cytotoxicity provides a means by which killer cells are directed specifically to the desired target glioma cells. the cytotoxic activity does not require the fc region of the incorporated antibody molecules and shows more lytic potential than ordinary antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. by complement-mediated cell depletion and percoll gradient separation, the effector cell populations for surrogate receptor-mediated cellular cytotoxicity are found to be natural killer cells, as in the murine system. this strategy of surrogate receptor incorporation into effector cells may provide not only valuable insights into the mechanism of cell-mediated cytotoxicity, but also a means of generating target-specific effector cells for clinical applications in neurosurgery.
transforming growth factor-beta activity in sheep lung lymph during the development of pulmonary hypertension. chronic pulmonary hypertension is associated with extensive structural remodeling of the pulmonary arterial bed. the structural changes in the arterial walls include increased production of extracellular matrix components and smooth muscle cell hypertrophy, changes that have been similarly induced by transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta) in culture. in the present study, experiments were performed to determine whether tgf-beta is present in sheep lung lymph, and whether tgf-beta levels were altered in an animal model of chronic pulmonary hypertension induced by continuous air embolization. several standard biological assays for tgf-beta activity were used for these determinations including soft agar assays, inhibition of epithelial cell proliferation, and a tgf-beta-specific radioreceptor assay. in each case, control lung lymph contained high concentrations of tgf-beta (100 ng/ml) which required transient acidification for detection. samples of lung lymph from hypertensive sheep showed a transient and early two- to threefold increase in concentrations of latent tgf-beta. this activity could be partially blocked by tgf-beta antibodies. these studies indicate that sheep lung lymph contains tgf-beta and that the level of tgf-beta increases early during the development of pulmonary hypertension. thus, tgf-beta may contribute to the development of the structural changes in the pulmonary arteries that occur during the onset of chronic pulmonary hypertension.
effects of carotid denervation and decerebration on ventilatory response to co. to clarify the mechanisms involved in the ventilatory response to the inhalation of low concentrations of co (0.18-0.22% in air), the roles of the arterial chemoreceptors and the forebrain structures have been investigated in unanesthetized adult cats. the ventilatory response was observed in conscious animals intact, after carotid denervation (cd), and after midcollicular decerebration. the results show that the initial small ventilatory depression was unaffected by cd but that the subsequent characteristic tachypnea was blunted after cd even after more prolonged exposure to co. the co tachypnea was not observed after decerebration, but a residual hyperventilation was noted with the higher concentration used. it may be concluded that carotid chemoreceptors do not mediate the co tachypnea, which may then originate in suprapontine structures as shown by comparison of intact and decerebrate animals. the blunting of the tachypnea after cd may be caused by the relative hypercapnia observed in cd animals. the residual hyperventilation observed in decerebrate animals may be caused by central acidosis and/or some peripheral potentiation of chemoreceptor activity resulting from the decrease in arterial blood pressure that accompanied co inhalation in decerebrate animals.
immunohistochemical alterations in basement membrane components of squamous cell carcinoma. to investigate alterations in the basement membrane (bm) in squamous cell carcinoma (scc), we investigated 20 tumors. four had the cytologic characteristics of bowen's disease (scc-bd) and 16 did not have them (scc-nb). tumors were studied immunohistochemically by double immunofluorescent staining by using mouse monoclonal antibodies to the core protein of heparan sulfate proteoglycan (hspg) and chondroitin 6-sulfate glycosaminoglycan (ch6s) as well as rabbit antiserum to laminin (ln) and type iv collagen (c-4). in well-differentiated and highly keratinized scc-nb, ln, c-4, and hspg could be detected in the tumor nest bm and showed no loss of continuity, but they were largely lost in poorly differentiated and poorly keratinized scc-nb. this suggests that poorly differentiated scc-nb cause greater enzymatic degradation of bm components than well-differentiated scc-nb. ch6s was detected in parts of the bm of scc-bd, but it was absent in all scc-nb examined. it appears that scc-nb have lost the ability to synthesize ch6s, and that scc-bd degrade ch6s although they continue to produce it. thus, it appears that in scc the bm is qualitatively different from that of normal epidermis, and that scc-bd can be distinguished from scc-nb by the ch6s content of the bm.
hyaluronan in pleural effusions and in serum. it has been suggested that a high level of hyaluronan (hyaluronic acid, hya) in pleural fluid is an indicator of malignant mesothelioma. in 78 consecutive patients with pleural effusion of various causes the hya concentration was measured in pleural fluid samples and in serum. nine patients had malignant pleural mesothelioma, and in three of them the hya level in pleural fluid was 100 mg/l or more. in 42 patients with effusions due to metastatic malignancy, the mean hya in the pleural fluid was 75 mg/l, and in five the hya level was above 100 mg/l. cardiac insufficiency caused the effusion in 11 patients, of whom two had a level above 100 mg/l in pleural fluid. four patients had a serologically confirmed viral infection and had hya levels in pleural fluid of 8, 157, 335, and 554 mg/l, respectively. one patient had postinfectious effusion with an hya level in pleural exudate of 748 mg/l, the highest in this investigation. two patients had benign asbestos pleural effusions, and both had high pleural hya levels (256 and 490 mg/l, respectively). the serum hya values were much lower than in the pleural fluid, namely from 15 to 480 micrograms/l; the levels were independent of the levels in the pleural fluid. thus, a high level of hya in pleural fluid is not specific for mesothelioma but can occur in other malignant or benign diseases, and a low level does not exclude mesothelioma.
detrusor hyper-reflexia as a factor in spontaneous perforation of augmentation cystoplasty for neuropathic bladder. in a series of 30 children undergoing cystoplasty for neuropathic bladder, 14 had a combination of a competent sphincteric mechanism and detrusor hyper-reflexia. all 3 cases of spontaneous perforation of the augmentation occurred within this latter group and it is postulated that excessive intravesical pressure due to high pressure hyper-reflexia was the causal factor. strategies to reduce the risk of perforation are discussed.
the effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma. the effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial, with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients. the purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury. from 1980 through 1989, 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the trauma service. there were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years (range, 15 to 61). motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 (94%) of the injuries. group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl (range, 15 to 380). in group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol. there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age, abbreviated injury severity score, initial hematocrit, and grade of splenic injury. hypotension was present in 13 patients (55%) in group 1 versus six patients (26%) in group 2 (p less than 0.05). significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients (25%) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group (p less than 0.05). blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in group 1 (mean, 3.9 units) versus group 2 (mean, 0.5 units) (p less than 0.001). if alcohol was present, there was much less chance for splenic conservation, as 18 patients (75%) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients (30%) in the nonalcohol group (p less than 0.05). there was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct.
approaches to the patient with aspiration and swallowing disabilities. aspiration, or soiling of the tracheobronchial tree, can produce life-threatening pulmonary disease. intermittent or persistent aspiration may cause symptoms including cough, intermittent fever, recurrent tracheobronchitis, atelectasis, pneumonia, and/or empyema. the pulmonary disease may be associated with weight loss, cachexia, and dehydration. in many cases the aspiration is caused by laryngeal dysfunction, allowing pulmonary contamination by swallowed material. in other cases the aspiration is caused by a dysfunction of the oral, pharyngeal, or esophageal phases of swallowing. in some cases the aspiration is caused by a combination of laryngeal and swallowing dysfunction. geriatric patients are more likely to experience aspiration, since muscle weakness causing mechanical disability and neurologic impairment are more common in this age group. therefore, with the ever-increasing aging of our population, these disabilities will be on the rise, with an associated increase in pulmonary disease and death. the approach to evaluation and management of these disorders must be based on an understanding of the underlying functional impairment.
exacerbation of chronic active hepatitis type b after short-term corticosteroid therapy resulting in fatal liver failure. the case of a 36-yr-old male with chronic active type b hepatitis in whom 4-wk prednisone therapy resulted in prolonged and fatal exacerbation of liver disease is described. thus, short-term corticosteroid therapy may in some patients have disastrous effects on the course of chronic active hepatitis b.
serum sialic acid concentration and cardiovascular mortality objective--to determine whether serum sialic acid concentration may be used to predict short and long term cardiovascular mortality. design--prospective study on all men and women who had their serum sialic acid concentration measured as part of a general health survey in 1964 or in 1965. all were followed up for an average of 20.5 years. setting--geographical part of the county of varmland, sweden. subjects--residents in the area participating in a health check up in 1964-5 (27,065 men and 28,037 women), of whom 372 men (169 with incomplete data and 203 lost to follow up) and 345 women (143 and 202 respectively) were excluded; thus 26,693 men and 27,692 women entered the study. the study sample was restricted to subjects aged 40-74 during any of the 20 years' follow up. main outcome measures--serum sialic acid concentration, serum cholesterol concentration, diastolic blood pressure, body mass index at the general health survey visit; cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular deaths during three periods of follow up (0-6 years, 7-13 years, and 14-20 years), according to the swedish mortality register, in subjects aged 45-74. results--mean serum sialic acid concentration (mg/100 ml) was 68.8 (sd 8.0) for men and 69.2 (8.0) for women; the average concentration increasing with age in both sexes. a total of 5639 (21%) men and 3307 (12%) women died during the follow up period, in whom death in 3052 (54%) men and 1368 (41%) women was from cardiovascular causes. during short (0-6 years), medium (7-13 years), and long (14-20 years) term follow up the relative risk of death from cardiovascular disease increased with increasing serum sialic acid concentration. the relative risk (95% confidence interval) associated with the highest quartile of sialic acid concentration compared with the lowest quartile was 2.38 (2.01 to 2.83) in men and 2.62 (1.93 to 3.57) in women. similar results were found for deaths from non-cardiovascular disease with relative risks of 1.50 (1.34 to 2.68) in men and 1.89 (1.57 to 2.28) in women, but these relative risks were significantly lower than those for deaths from cardiovascular disease (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.005 respectively). in multivariate analysis of total mortality and of cardiovascular mortality with sialic acid concentration, serum cholesterol concentration, diastolic blood pressure, and body mass index as independent variables the impact of sialic acid concentration was virtually the same as in univariate analysis. conclusion--serum sialic acid concentration is a strong predictor of cardiovascular mortality. a possible explanation of these findings is that the serum sialic acid concentration may reflect the existence or the activity of an atherosclerotic process, and this may warrant further investigation.
frequency and significance of occult late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram in sustained ventricular tachycardia after healing of acute myocardial infarction. the quantitative and morphologic characteristics and significance of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiographic qrs complex remain unknown. to assess this, the signal-averaged electrocardiogram of 48 patients (mean age +/- standard deviation 62 +/- 9 years) with sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt) after healing of acute myocardial infarction and late potentials were analyzed. late potentials could be classified into 3 morphologic subtypes: type i late potentials (19 patients, 40%) occurred in the terminal 40 ms of the qrs complex; type ii late potentials (16 patients, 33%) started before the end of the qrs complex and extended 30 +/- 17 ms into the st segment; type iii late potentials (13 patients, 27%) started after the end of the qrs complex in the st segment and ended 67 +/- 27 ms after the end of the qrs complex. the amplitude of the late potentials in type iii, when compared with types i and ii, was significantly lower, whereas the qrs duration on the electrocardiogram in type i, when compared with types ii and iii, was significantly longer. computer algorithm based on noise failed to identify most type iii late potentials. no difference was noted in age, sex, site of the myocardial infarction, and rate of induced vt among the 3 types.
the nature of adverse events in hospitalized patients. results of the harvard medical practice study ii. background. in a sample of 30,195 randomly selected hospital records, we identified 1133 patients (3.7 percent) with disabling injuries caused by medical treatment. we report here an analysis of these adverse events and their relation to error, negligence, and disability. methods. two physician-reviewers independently identified the adverse events and evaluated them with respect to negligence, errors in management, and extent of disability. one of the authors classified each event according to type of injury. we tested the significance of differences in rates of negligence and disability among categories with at least 30 adverse events. results. drug complications were the most common type of adverse event (19 percent), followed by wound infections (14 percent) and technical complications (13 percent). nearly half the adverse events (48 percent) were associated with an operation. adverse events during surgery were less likely to be caused by negligence (17 percent) than nonsurgical ones (37 percent). the proportion of adverse events due to negligence was highest for diagnostic mishaps (75 percent), noninvasive therapeutic mishaps ("errors of omission") (77 percent), and events occurring in the emergency room (70 percent). errors in management were identified for 58 percent of the adverse events, among which nearly half were attributed to negligence. conclusions. although the prevention of many adverse events must await improvements in medical knowledge, the high proportion that are due to management errors suggests that many others are potentially preventable now. reducing the incidence of these events will require identifying their causes and developing methods to prevent error or reduce its effects.
excision repair of pyrimidine dimers induced by simulated solar radiation in the skin of patients with basal cell carcinoma. one prominent lesion induced in dna by ultraviolet (uv) radiation is the cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimer formed between adjacent pyrimidines on the same dna strand. we investigated whether people who have developed basal cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin have an altered ability to repair uv-induced pyrimidine dimers in dna. twenty-two patients with at least one basal cell carcinoma, aged 31-84 years, and 19 healthy volunteers, aged 25-61 years, took part in the study. both groups were given one minimal erythema dose (med) of simulated solar radiation on the lower back. dna was extracted from the irradiated skin 0 to 6 h later, and the number of uv-induced pyrimidine dimers was determined using a dimer-specific endonuclease. at time 0, the average number of dimers per unit of dna was similar in the two groups. after 6 h, an average of 22 +/- 4% of the dimers were removed in the group with basal cell carcinoma compared to 33 +/- 4% in the cancer-free group. in the basal cell carcinoma group, only 23% of the patients repaired more than 30% of the dimers after 6 h, compared with 53% of the cancer-free subjects (p less than 0.05). we conclude that patients who develop basal cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin may have a decreased ability to repair pyrimidine dimers induced in skin exposed to simulated solar radiation.
reoperation for small intestinal obstruction. today, intestinal adhesions represent the most frequent etiology for complete or partial intestinal obstruction. although partial obstruction can be treated nonoperatively with a considerable likelihood of success, intestinal strangulation cannot uniformly be predicted or prevented. complete intestinal obstruction is associated with a significant incidence of strangulation if not treated by a vigorous surgical approach. consequently, complete intestinal obstruction secondary to adhesions is still a surgical disease. attempts at control of the adhesion process include mechanical methods to prevent subsequent obstruction and chemical methods to prevent the adhesion process itself. the invasive mechanical methods appear dated. a variety of agents have been used either systemically or in the peritoneal cavity to prevent the establishment of intra-abdominal adhesions. agents that do not contribute to subsequent morbidity or impede the native host defense mechanisms should be utilized. high-molecular-weight dextran and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents show some promise of being both safe and effective. as is frequently the case, the bottom line in preventing and treating intra-abdominal adhesions is appropriate surgical technique. intestinal adhesions can be related clearly to leaving damaged, devitalized, or ischemic tissue in the peritoneal cavity or to excessive roughness in handling of tissues. steps such as avoidance of excessive suture material and unnecessary handling of the bowel will do much to prevent subsequent adhesion generation. likewise, the surgical lysis of intraperitoneal adhesions is frequently fraught with complications such as intra-abdominal abscess or postoperative incisional failure. this is again related to surgical technique and most directly to the use of blunt dissection to divide adhesions. knife dissection in the lysis of adhesions is recommended. this technique, combined with excellent intraoperative hemostasis, can be associated with a marked diminution in the incidence of postoperative fistulas and abscesses.
postinfarction ventricular septal defect repair: retrospective thoughts and historical perspectives. evolution of surgical techniques for repair of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture initially involved differentiation of these lesions from prior experience with surgical approaches to congenital ventricular septal defects, which were in the main not applicable. second, understanding of the differing anatomical locations of postinfarction ventricular septal defects required innovation in terms of the location of the cardiotomy and type of repair necessary to achieve a successful result in any given patient. the gradual appreciation of different clinical courses pursued by patients after postinfarction ventricular septal rupture both in terms of location of the defect and the degree of right ventricular functional impairment has led to increased urgency relative to the timing of surgical repair. the incorporation of specific anatomical concepts of surgical repair and better understanding of the time course of physiological deterioration of patients can ultimately lead to an integrated approach aimed toward improved salvage of patients suffering this catastrophic complication of acute myocardial infarction.
neuroacanthocytosis. a clinical, haematological and pathological study of 19 cases. nineteen cases are described, including 12 cases from three different families and 7 nonfamilial cases, in which multisystem neurological disease was associated with acanthocytosis in peripheral blood and normal plasma lipoproteins. mild acanthocytosis can easily be overlooked, and scanning electron microscopy may be helpful. some neurologically asymptomatic relatives with significant acanthocytosis were identified during family screening, including some who were clinically affected. the mean age of onset was 32 (range 8-62) yrs and the clinical course was usually progressive but there was marked phenotypic variation. cognitive impairment, psychiatric features and organic personality change occurred in over half the cases, and more than one-third had seizures. orofaciolingual involuntary movements and pseudobulbar disturbance commonly caused dysphagia and dysarthria that was sometimes severe, but biting of the lips or tongue was rarely seen. chorea was seen in almost all symptomatic cases but dystonia, tics, involuntary vocalizations and akinetic-rigid features also occurred. two cases had no movement disorder at all. computerized tomography often demonstrated cerebral atrophy. caudate atrophy was seen less commonly, and nonspecific focal and symmetric signal abnormalities from the caudate or lentiform nuclei were seen by magnetic resonance imaging in 3 out of 4 cases. depression or absence of tendon reflexes was noted in 13 cases and neurophysiological abnormalities often indicated an axonal neuropathy. sural nerve biopsies from 3 cases showed evidence of a chronic axonal neuropathy with prominent regenerative activity, predominantly affecting the large diameter myelinated fibres. serum creatine kinase activity was increased in 11 cases but without clinical evidence of a myopathy. postmortem neuropathological examination in 1 case revealed extensive neuronal loss and gliosis affecting the corpus striatum, pallidum, and the substantia nigra, especially the pars reticulata. the cerebral cortex appeared spared and the spinal cord showed no evidence of anterior horn cell loss. two examples of the mcleod phenotype, an x-linked abnormality of expression of kell blood group antigens, were identified in a single family and included 1 female. the genetics of neuroacanthocytosis are unclear and probably heterogeneous, but the available pedigree data and the association with the mcleod phenotype suggest that there may be a locus for this disorder on the short arm of the x chromosome.
periprosthetic chronic inflammation characterized through the measurement of superoxide anion production by synovial-derived macrophages. periprosthetic macrophages were isolated from the synovium of primary and revision arthroplasty patients. inflammatory activity was determined by the level of superoxide (o2-) production de novo and in response to phorbol myristate acetate (pma) stimulation. nonstimulated primary arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 2.54 +/- 2.04 pmoles of o2-/minute/10(5) cells. when identical reaction tubes were stimulated with pma, o2- levels increased to 5.76 +/- 3.77 pmol of o2-/minute/10(5) cells. nonstimulated revision arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 3.26 +/- 2.02 pmol of o2-/minute/10(5) cells during this ten-minute time period. when identical reaction tubes were stimulated with pma, o2- levels increased to 3.98 +/- 2.52 pmol of o2-/minute/10(5) cells. the difference in the ratio of o2- production in response to stimulation between primary and revision groups was statistically significant. the observation of a chronic moderate level of activation and the lack of responsiveness to a potent stimulator suggests that macrophage inflammatory activity is down-regulated in periprosthetic synovium.
have changing treatment patterns affected outcome for operable breast cancer? ten-year follow-up in 1288 patients, 1965 to 1978. from 1965 to 1978, 1288 patients with primary operable breast cancer were treated by the senior author, using extended radical (erm), radical (rm), and modified radical (mrm) mastectomy operations exclusively. results were analyzed for trends in overall and disease-free survival, and patterns of local and distant relapse, the years 1965 to 1970 versus 1971 to 1974 versus 1975 to 1978. significant changes (p less than 0.00001) from 1965 to 1978 included progressively earlier stage of disease, less frequent use of rm and erm, a decline in the use of postoperative radiotherapy, and the introduction in 1975 of multidrug adjuvant chemotherapy. ten-year disease-free survival rates improved significantly for all patients (by 11%, p = 0.00004) and for node-negative (by 12%, p = 0.0024), node-positive (by 8%, p = 0.012), clinical stage ii (by 15%, p = 0.0022), and pathologic stage ii (by 12%, p = 0.016) disease. ten-year local recurrence for all patients was 3% (local only) and 2% (local with distant metastasis), and survival from date of recurrence for all patients failing treatment increased two times (p less than 0.0001) for patients treated most recently. as the primary surgical treatment of breast cancer continues to become more moderate, the promise of systemic adjuvant therapies can be realized only with continued emphasis on earlier diagnosis and maximal local control of disease.
use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in africa, hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly (hms), which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome, can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (cll). the observation that some patients with hms become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder. to test this hypothesis, 22 ghanaian patients with hms and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria, and dna was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a dna probe. clonal rearrangements of the jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response, in none of 13 patients with sustained response, and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy. the detection of such rearrangements, and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between hms and cll, supports the hypothesis that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder.
results of vein graft reconstruction of the lower extremity in diabetic and nondiabetic patients. the results of 171 vein grafts of the lower extremity were evaluated. these were placed between january 1981 and december 1987 in 150 patients, 75 diabetic and 75 nondiabetic, to determine the influence of diabetes on the outcome of the procedure. one and four year patency rates were determined by a life table analysis. no statistical differences in primary patency were found between the patients with diabetes and those without diabetes for all indications of operations (one year, diabetic patients 95 +/- 3 per cent, nondiabetic patients 85 +/- 3 per cent; four years, diabetic patients 89 +/- 11 per cent and nondiabetic patients 80 +/- 12 per cent; p = n.s.). for those operated upon for salvage of the limb because of rest pain, ulceration or gangrene, patency in diabetic patients at one year approached a statistically significant advantage (diabetic patients 94 +/- 4 per cent versus nondiabetic patients 79 +/- 8 per cent; p = 0.056). we believe that arterial reconstruction of the lower extremity can be performed upon patients with diabetes with the same high degree of success for revascularization and salvage of the limb as can be accomplished in nondiabetic patients. this is true even though those with diabetes present with necrosis of the tissue and more often require bypass to distal tibial arteries.
evolution of fundic argyrophil cell hyperplasia in nonantral atrophic gastritis. fundic argyrophil cells were studied for a mean period of 68.7 months (range, 11-170) in 18 patients with fundic atrophic gastritis and achlorhydria. initially, 12 patients had hyperplasia of the argyrophil cells, the severity of which was assessed using a semiquantitative classification based on the number of argyrophil clusters per square millimeter. at the end of the study, the degree of hyperplasia was unchanged in 9 patients, had decreased in 2, and had increased in 1; no significant increase in the number of argyrophil clusters, precarcinoid changes, or carcinoid tumors were observed and the high level of gastrinemia [mean, 4.8 (range, 1.9-8.1) times the upper limit for normal) did not change significantly. of the 6 patients with no hyperplasia at the outset of the study, 4 continued without hyperplasia and 2 presented a low-grade hyperplasia at the 20th and 130th month. gastrinemia increased significantly in the last patient and stayed normal in the other 5. this study argues in favor of the stable appearance of fundic argyrophil cells in patients with atrophic gastritis and stable gastrinemia.
probability of stroke: a risk profile from the framingham study. a health risk appraisal function has been developed for the prediction of stroke using the framingham study cohort. the stroke risk factors included in the profile are age, systolic blood pressure, the use of antihypertensive therapy, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, prior cardiovascular disease (coronary heart disease, cardiac failure, or intermittent claudication), atrial fibrillation, and left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiogram. based on 472 stroke events occurring during 10 years' follow-up from biennial examinations 9 and 14, stroke probabilities were computed using the cox proportional hazards model for each sex based on a point system. on the basis of the risk factors in the profile, which can be readily determined on routine physical examination in a physician's office, stroke risk can be estimated. an individual's risk can be related to the average risk of stroke for persons of the same age and sex. the information that one's risk of stroke is several times higher than average may provide the impetus for risk factor modification. it may also help to identify persons at substantially increased stroke risk resulting from borderline levels of multiple risk factors such as those with mild or borderline hypertension and facilitate multifactorial risk factor modification.
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer. the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma. the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively. thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer. clinically, 33 patients had a polymyopathy, of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy (two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome, one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production). cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer. ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology; 74 had type ii atrophy, 12 had type i and ii atrophy, one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis. the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications. atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms, ageing, clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour, and was statistically different from that seen in controls. qualitatively, the presence of weight loss, muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy. similarly, necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour, the presence of metastases, ageing, weight loss, muscle wasting, duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy. this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit, including atrophy, a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome. clinical assessment does not accurately assess the 'remote' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit.
midterm surgical results of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries with intact septum. between april 4, 1984, and december 31, 1987, 156 consecutive neonates with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent an arterial switch operation (aso) at our institution. surgery was performed before the age of 15 days in 96%, and patient weight was less than 3 kg in 28%. seventeen patients (10.9%) died after surgery. one patient was lost to follow-up. of the 138 survivors, two died of myocardial infarction 35 and 40 days, respectively, after surgery. they were the only late deaths, and actuarial survival rates were 87% (70% confidence level [cl], 83-89%) at 45 days and 87% (70% cl, 68-95%) at 52 months. another patient had a myocardial infarction 50 days after surgery and is well 50 months later. pulmonary stenosis was observed in 14 patients (10.3%) during the first year after surgery; two patients were reoperated on 10 and 12 months, respectively, after aso. aortic regurgitation was observed in 17 patients: two had grades ii and iii, respectively, aortic regurgitation on aortography; in 15 patients, it was detected only by doppler examination. at the last follow-up (2-52 months after aso; mean, 27.3 +/- 11.3 months), all patients were asymptomatic and taking no medication. on bidimensional echocardiography, left ventricular fractional shortening was normal at rest in all survivors but one. one patient had junctional rhythm, and one had wenckebach periods; the remainder were in sinus rhythm. for as long as 5 years after aso, late death and reintervention were rare; 99% of the survivors were asymptomatic and had sinus rhythm and good systemic ventricular function.
social support and the cancer patient. implications for future research and clinical care. this review assesses past progress, current practices, and future needs in research and clinical practice involving the social support needs of cancer patients. a review is given of the various conceptualizations of the social support/stress paradigm and of the state of the art of measuring social support. then the current work in the field of social support and cancer is considered and an argument is made for the use of social support measures, which are relevant to the experiences of the cancer patient. potential adaptations of an existing instrument (the duke-unc functional social support scale) are demonstrated, and a taxonomy of stages of cancer that would require additional types of social support measures and interventions is outlined. interventions are discussed in terms of the traditional support groups as well as interventions by the oncologist and primary care physician. an argument is made for the inclusion of quality of life or functional measures as outcomes in clinical trials and the care of the cancer patient. finally, the need to address the existential, philosophic, or religious issues surrounding cancer and its treatment is discussed.
granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient. granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells. they are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis. rarely, patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia. the authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma. only five such cases have been reported previously. immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells.
serial ultrasonographic evaluation of neonatal vein of galen malformations to assess the efficacy of interventional neuroradiological procedures. two-dimensional echocardiography complemented with color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasound was used to evaluate one fetus and five neonates with a vein of galen malformation who had severe high-output congestive heart failure and cranial bruits at birth. intracranial blood flow through the vein of galen malformations, cardiac status, and direction of aortic blood flow were assessed before and after staged interventional neuroradiological treatment with transarterial and transvenous embolization procedures. color-flow imaging in each infant displayed the major vascular anatomy including feeding vessels and the patterns of filling of the vein of galen malformations. pulsed doppler ultrasound performed on the descending aorta above the diaphragm showed the degree of diastolic flow reversal indicative of runoff into the vein of galen malformations. a reduction in blood flow through the vein of galen malformation was seen on color-flow imaging in four patients treated successfully by embolic procedures. the ratio of diastolic retrograde flow velocity in the descending aorta to systolic antegrade velocity decreased from 0.51 +/- 0.15 (mean +/- standard deviation) to 0.15 +/- 0.20 (p less than 0.05). color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasonography provided anatomical and pathophysiological information regarding cardiac hemodynamics and intracranial blood flow; with the patient's clinical status, these methods provided a reliable, noninvasive means to evaluate the effectiveness of therapy and the need for further treatment in neonates with vein of galen malformations.
association of perioperative myocardial ischemia with cardiac morbidity and mortality in men undergoing noncardiac surgery. the study of perioperative ischemia research group background. adverse cardiac events are a major cause of morbidity and mortality after noncardiac surgery. it is necessary to determine the predictors of these outcomes in order to focus efforts on prevention and treatment. patients undergoing noncardiac surgery sometimes have postoperative cardiac events. it would be helpful to know which patients are at highest risk. methods. we prospectively studied 474 men with coronary artery disease (243) or at high risk for it (231) who were undergoing elective noncardiac surgery. we gathered historical, clinical, laboratory, and physiologic data during hospitalization and for 6 to 24 months after surgery. myocardial ischemia was assessed by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, beginning two days before surgery and continuing for two days after. results. eighty-three patients (18 percent) had postoperative cardiac events in the hospital that were classified as ischemic events (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or unstable angina) (15 patients), congestive heart failure (30), or ventricular tachycardia (38). postoperative myocardial ischemia occurred in 41 percent of the monitored patients and was associated with a 2.8-fold increase in the odds of all adverse cardiac outcomes (95 percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 4.9; p less than 0.0002) and a 9.2-fold increase in the odds of an ischemic event (95 percent confidence interval, 2.0 to 42.0; p less than 0.004). multivariate analysis showed no other clinical, historical, or perioperative variable to be independently associated with ischemic events, including cardiac-risk index, a history of previous myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure, or the occurrence of ischemia before or during surgery. conclusions. in high-risk patients undergoing noncardiac surgery, early postoperative myocardial ischemia is an important correlate of adverse cardiac outcomes.
proximal gastric vagotomy in the emergency treatment of bleeding duodenal ulcer. proximal gastric vagotomy for bleeding duodenal ulcer was performed in 52 low-risk patients between 1973 and 1986. duodenotomy without violation of the pylorus was done in all patients to allow inspection and control of the bleeding site. the median duration of operation was 3 hours and 20 minutes, although 25% of the procedures required 4 or more hours. there was no postoperative mortality and no early reoperations. among the six patients with postoperative complications, one rebled from the ulcer and two developed prolonged gastric atony. at the time of follow-up (median, 2.9 years), 48 of the patients were alive and 4 had died of non-ulcer causes. no patient had significant postvagotomy sequelae. ulcer recurrence was documented in six patients, and three required reoperation. proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe, effective therapy for bleeding duodenal ulcer. because of the length of the operation, it should be restricted to low-risk patients who are hemodynamically stable at the time of operation.
esophageal motility, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux: variations in clinical presentation of esophageal dysphagia. dysphagia is a potentially important symptom, often leading to the finding of an anatomical or motility disorder of the esophagus. dysphagia and heartburn represent two of the most common symptoms associated with esophageal motility disorders. to explore the relationship of symptomatic esophageal dysphagia and heartburn and their association with primary esophageal motor disorders, we have performed a retrospective assessment of 1035 patient evaluations performed at our gastrointestinal laboratory. a clear statistical association of symptomatic dysphagia and heartburn was established; however, no pattern diagnostic of a specific motility disorder was discernible. a sizable fraction of our patient population with dysphagia demonstrated normal esophageal motility. a significant portion of dyspeptic patients exhibited both normal motility and acid exposure. the differences observed between the incidence of subjective symptoms and objective dysfunction may be explained in part by an altered or increased esophageal sensitivity of these patients.
growth disturbance in legg-calve-perthes disease and the consequences of surgical treatment. seventy-two patients with legg-calve-perthes disease were studied to assess the interference with proximal femoral growth as a result of the disease itself and of surgical treatment. twenty-five patients were treated nonoperatively, 20 were treated by femoral varus derotation osteotomy, and 27 by innominate osteotomy. all patients were studied clinically for evidence of abductor weakness and leg-length discrepancy. they were also studied roentgenographically for evidence of femoral head deformity and trochanteric overgrowth. the overall results showed a 6% incidence of leg-length discrepancy greater than 2 cm after both operative and nonoperative treatment. the articulo-trochanteric distance (atd) was less than +5 mm in 23% of patients, of which 43% had a positive trendelenburg sign. a significantly lower mean atd was found in patients treated by femoral varus osteotomy, which should be avoided in patients over eight years of age. the study also demonstrated a strong association between coxa magna and growth disturbance of the proximal femoral physis manifesting itself as either a leg-length discrepancy or as a low atd. the significant effects of growth disturbance after treatment must be considered, as well as the sphericity of the healed femoral head, in the final assessment in legg-calve-perthes disease.
delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression. we report two unusual cases of delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression of structures within the cerebellopontine angle. in the first case, the patient noted a unilateral hearing loss 3 weeks after undergoing vascular decompression of the trigeminal nerve for tic douloureux. this gradually improved over an 18-month period. in the second case, the patient awoke on the 4th day after vascular decompression of the facial nerve for hemifacial spasm with a bilateral hearing loss that has remained unchanged after the onset. these are examples of delayed acoustic dysfunction occurring with a shift in surgically freed vessels and may have been induced by newly directed neurovascular compression or distortion.
complications of flaps. flaps are susceptible to the same complications as side-to-side closures. however, as the blood supply to a flap is more precarious, the complication may have a more dire effect. this article catalogues the various acute complications with an emphasis on early recognition and management.
pathological observations of intrahepatic peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers. iii. survey of necroinflammation and cystic dilatation. pathological changes and significance of intrahepatic peribiliary glands, hitherto poorly recognized intrahepatic elements, have been evaluated in our laboratory. in this report, we surveyed necroinflammatory and cystic changes of the peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers because these two changes coexisted frequently in the same liver. the necroinflammatory change was found in 228 livers (22.8%) and the cystic change in 202 livers (20.2%), and 103 cases showed both changes in the same liver. the necroinflammatory change was frequently found in intrahepatic cholangitis and extrahepatic biliary obstruction with bacterial infection, suggesting that biliary bacterial inflammation extends into these peribilary glands. this change was also frequent in systemic infection or septicemia without biliary bacterial infection, implying that the peribiliary glands were also damaged in such conditions without direct infection. the cystic change was frequent in livers with portal hypertension or obstruction, adult polycystic disease and necroinflammation of the glands, suggesting that the cystic change of the glands could occur as the result of the disturbance of intrahepatic circulation or as the result of inflammatory destruction of the glandular conduits. some of peribiliary cysts may be of congenital origin. dysfunction related to these pathological changes in the glands may diminish seromucous secretion and cause alterations in hepatic bile composition. the cystic change of the glands may retard bile flow by compressing bile duct lumina.
a new monoclonal antibody (ch-f42) recognizes a cd7- subset of normal t lymphocytes and circulating malignant cells in adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia and sezary syndrome. we describe a new rat immunoglobulin m monoclonal antibody (ch-f42) that recognizes a subset (1.5% to 8%) of normal peripheral blood t lymphocytes. the phenotype of these cells was determined, using dual-color immunofluorescence, to be cd2+, cd3+, cd4+, cd5+, cd7-, cd8-. they do not express t-cell activation markers, and are positive for uchl1 (cd45ro), but negative for 2h4 (cd45ra). the antigen was expressed on circulating malignant cells in sezary syndrome (four of four cases) and adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia (atll) (four of six cases) and negative in a variety of other hematologic malignancies tested. these included chronic and acute lymphoid leukemias of b and t lineage, together with chronic and acute myeloid leukemias. however, normal ch-f42+ cells do not display any of the ultrastructural features associated with sezary or atll cells. the marked similarities between these conditions together with the shared expression of an otherwise very restricted surface antigen (ch-f42) provide strong evidence for the existence of a common normal counterpart. preliminary characterization studies of the antigen, which is also expressed by k562 and jurkat cells, suggest the ch-f42 antigen is an o-linked, sialated glycan on a glycoprotein.
prolonged response to carboplatin in an infant with brain stem glioma. adults and children with brain stem gliomas have a mean survival time of 15 months after radiation therapy (xrt). infants with this tumor present additional complexities for treatment because of possible neurotoxicity of the radiation to the developing brain. we report a 15-month-old child with biopsy-proven brain stem glioma with clinical and radiographic evidence of disease progression. she was treated with 24 monthly courses of carboplatin without radiation therapy and has had a 39+ month response. the clinical response started after 3 months and the radiographic evidence was documented at 10 months by magnetic resonance imaging. the toxicity was minimal. longitudinal neuropsychological assessment demonstrated continued improvement at 36 months post diagnosis but with some motor functioning below expected age levels. cervico-medullary astrocytoma in a young patient may be the appropriate clinical setting for future trials of chemotherapy without xrt.
value of monoclonal anti-myeloperoxidase (mpo7) for diagnosing acute leukaemia. the expression of myeloperoxidase (mpo) was studied in 100 cases of acute leukaemia (83 with acute myeloid leukaemia (aml) and 17 acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (all) by both a conventional cytochemical method and the immunocytochemical antiperoxidase (apaap) technique using the monoclonal antibody mpo7. in each case the staining was evaluated by light microscopical examination (percentage of positive cells). of the 83 cases of aml, 78 (93.9%) were positive for mpo7 compared with 70 (84.3%) by cytochemistry. antibodies against the myeloid markers cd13 and cd33 were positive in 71 (85.5%) and 70 (84.3%) cases, respectively. importantly, all cases of all were negative for both mpo7 and cytochemical mpo staining even when they were positive for cd13 and cd33. these results indicate that the anti-myeloperoxidase antibody mpo7 is the most sensitive and specific reagent for the diagnosis of aml and should therefore be included in routine immunophenotyping panels.
persistence of arrhythmia exercise response in healthy young men. this study assesses the persistence of arrhythmia at rest or during exercise tests, or both, after a mean follow-up period of 6.7 years in 76 young men (mean age 21.5 years) without evidence of organic heart disease. the exercise test was performed using a near-maximal protocol based on progressively increasing intermittent work loads, each of 5 minutes' duration. the initial work load was 50 w. the electrocardiogram was continuously registered throughout all stages of the examination. arrhythmia was defined as the occurrence of greater than or equal to 1 supraventricular or 1 ventricular premature beat at any stage of the examination. at the follow-up examination, the rate of persistence of arrhythmia did not differ significantly among the subgroups, irrespective of follow-up interval, type of arrhythmia, or arrhythmia patterns of response to exercise. two-dimensional echocardiography did not show any structural abnormalities and doppler examination did not demonstrate significant abnormal flow patterns. our data show that almost all patients continued to present arrhythmia after the follow-up period, without any evidence of development of organic heart disease. moreover, the arrhythmia pattern of response to exercise remained constant throughout the years. at this time, arrhythmia without underlying heart disease seems to be of a benign natural course in these young men.
a plasma protease which is expressed during supramaximal stimulation causes in vitro subcellular redistribution of lysosomal enzymes in rat exocrine pancreas. the complex events by which digestive enzyme zymogens and lysosomal hydrolases are segregated from each other and differentially transported to their respective membrane-bound intracellular organelles in the pancreas have been noted to be disturbed during the early stages of several models of experimental pancreatitis. as a result, lysosomal hydrolases such as cathepsin b are redistributed to the subcellular zymogen granule-rich fraction and lysosomal hydrolases as well as digestive enzyme zymogens are colocalized within large cytoplasmic vacuoles. the current study was designed to create an in vitro system that would reproduce this redistribution phenomenon. our results indicate that cathepsin b redistribution occurs when rat pancreatic fragments are incubated with a supramaximally stimulating concentration of the cholecystokinin analogue caerulein along with plasma from an animal subjected to in vivo supramaximal caerulein stimulation. neither the plasma nor a supramaximally stimulating concentration of caerulein, alone, is sufficient to induce in vitro cathepsin b redistribution. the ability of the plasma to induce in vitro cathepsin redistribution is dependent upon its content of a 10,000-30,000-d protein and is lost by exposure to protease inhibitors. in vitro cathepsin b redistribution also occurs when rat pancreatic fragments are incubated with plasma obtained from opossums with hemorrhagic necrotizing pancreatitis caused by bile/pancreatic duct ligation.
direct extension of laryngeal carcinoma to the skin of the neck. invasion of the skin of the neck by laryngeal carcinoma is relatively uncommon. twelve cases of cancer of the larynx fungating through the cervical skin are presented. they mostly followed initial treatment by deep x-ray therapy or partial laryngectomy. a high tracheostomy was also considered to be a contributing cause for the occurrence of such a mishap. the management and follow-up of these patients is described.
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of anomalous right coronary artery. coronary angioplasty of tortuous anomalous coronary arteries can be technically challenging. we describe a successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) of an anomalous right coronary artery after a failed previous attempt. the anatomic limitations of anomalous right coronary arteries and technical considerations for ptca are discussed.
dysplasia and dna aneuploidy in a pelvic pouch. report of a case. a patient with an 18-year history of ulcerative colitis was operated on with colectomy, mucosal proctectomy, ileoanal anastomosis, and an s-type pelvic pouch due to intractable chronic continuous disease. the patient was followed by endoscopic controls and biopsy sampling from the pouch at regular intervals. a gradual development of severe atrophy in the ileal mucosa was followed by the development of low grade dysplasia. at the most recent endoscopic control, 4 years after the construction of the pouch, biopsies were sampled also for flow cytometric dna analyses. dna aneuploidy was detected in a biopsy from the center of the pouch, and a biopsy taken immediately adjacent showed low grade dysplasia. these findings underline the importance of endoscopic follow-up after construction of a pelvic pouch and focus attention to the potential of malignant transformation of the mucosa.
spinal coning after lumbar puncture in prostate cancer with asymptomatic vertebral metastasis: a case report. a 60-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for complete urinary retention. prostate cancer was diagnosed and anti-cancer chemotherapy was administered. regression of prostatic enlargement was appreciated and difficult urination improved. at 6 months after the initial treatment vertebral metastasis of t10-11 was noted on a bone scintigram but there were no symptoms induced by bone metastasis. orchiectomy was performed with the patient under lumbar anesthesia. complete paralysis of both lower extremities occurred postoperatively. computerized tomography and myelographic findings demonstrated complete subarachnoid block with an extramedullary spinal cord tumor. it was concluded that traction on the spinal cord producing neurological deterioration (spinal coning) occurred after removal of the cerebrospinal fluid by lumbar puncture.
clinical analyses and short-term prognoses of neonates with subependymal cysts. twenty-one neonates with subependymal cysts detected by neurosonography soon after birth were prospectively examined. the clinical and cranial sonographic findings were evaluated with respect to short-term prognosis. the prognosis was poor in 6 patients with congenital viral infection (4 with cytomegalovirus infection and 2 with rubella infection). five patients also had neurodevelopmental abnormalities (2 with neonatal epileptic seizures, 2 with chromosomal abnormalities, and 1 with lissencephaly). the remaining 10 patients had normal psychomotor development. the incidence of congenital viral infection was statistically correlated with a poor neurodevelopmental outcome. a correlation did not exist between the short-term prognosis and each of the other clinical factors or cranial sonographic findings. our evidence suggests that further investigation of possible subependymal cyst etiologies is required during a careful, long-term follow-up period.
multilevel occlusive vascular disease presenting with gangrene. the medical records of all patients subjected to lower extremity amputations during a 3-year period were reviewed. it was shown that advanced age and the presence of multiple medical problems do not predispose to higher levels of limb loss. although diabetic patients more frequently undergo amputation because of sepsis than their nondiabetic counterparts, the diabetic state was not found to be associated with a greater likelihood of above knee (ak) procedures. prior arterial surgery was not shown to make ak amputation more likely, but it was disconcerting to note that limb salvage was not achieved in many individuals despite patent proximal inflow revascularization procedures. this initial study showed that several presumed risk factors were not predictors of amputation level. those patients requiring ak amputations had a greater frequency of combined segment (aortoiliac and femoropopliteal) occlusive disease than those who had successful amputations at more distal levels. a follow-up study of 41 consecutive patients presenting with tissue loss due to combined segment occlusive disease was performed. eighteen (group i) underwent inflow procedures only, while 23 (group ii) also underwent distal revascularization. the groups were similar with respect to age, risk factors, extent of tissue loss and sepsis. at 1 year 10 (56%) group i and only 3 (13%) group ii patients required major amputation (p = 0.01). distal bypass, in addition to an inflow procedure, is recommended for those who present with tissue loss due to multilevel arterial occlusion.
immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders. a fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/ml. when concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis (n = 31) [including the calcifying forms (n = 10)], pancreatic cancer (n = 22), or nonpancreatic diseases (n = 17), no significant differences were found. in contrast, increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic (39/66) and acute pancreatitis (16/20) compared with control patients. the differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant (p less than 0.0001) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity. immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point (ph 9) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein. with respect to recent communications, these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators.
thrombin stimulates tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro and metastasis in vivo. recent studies have revealed a role for platelets and the platelet-adhesive proteins, fibronectin and von willebrand factor (vwf) in platelet-tumor cell interaction in vitro and metastasis in vivo. the present report documents the effect of thrombin treatment of platelets on this interaction in vitro and in vivo. in vitro, thrombin at 100-1,000 mu/ml maximally stimulated the adhesion of six different tumor cell lines from three different species two- to fivefold. as little as 1-10 mu/ml was effective. the effect of thrombin was specific (inhibitable by hirudin, dansyl-arginine n-(3-ethyl-1,5 pentanediyl) amide and unreactive with the inactive thrombin analogue n-p-tosyl-l-phenylchloromethylketone-thrombin and d-phenylalanyl-l-propyl-l-arginine chloromethylketone-thrombin (ppack-thrombin), and required high-affinity thrombin receptors (competition with ppack-thrombin but not with n-p-tosyl-l-lysine-chloromethyl-ketone-thrombin). functionally active thrombin was required on the platelet surface. binding of tumor cells to thrombin-activated platelets was inhibitable by agents known to interfere with the platelet gpiib-gpiiia integrin: monoclonal antibody 10e5, tetrapeptide rgds and gamma chain fibrinogen decapeptide lggakqagdv, as well as polyclonal antibodies against the platelet adhesive ligands, fibronectin and vwf. in vivo, thrombin at 250-500 mu per animal increased murine pulmonary metastases fourfold with ct26 colon carcinoma cells and 68-413-fold with b16 amelanotic melanoma cells. thus, thrombin amplifies tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro two- to fivefold via occupancy of high-affinity platelet thrombin receptors, and modulation of gpiib-gpiiia adhesion via an rgd-dependent mechanism. in vivo, thrombin enhances tumor metastases 4-413-fold with two different tumor cell lines.
brain retractor edema during induced hypotension: the effect of the rate of return of blood pressure. this study evaluated the hypothesis that the postoperative formation of cerebral edema may be influenced by the rate of blood pressure return after induced hypotension in a graded brain retractor injury. nineteen cats underwent unilateral craniotomy, isoflurane-induced hypotension to a mean of 50 mm hg, and application of a brain retractor at 20 mm hg of pressure for 1 hour. blood pressure was returned to normal either within 3 minutes or over 20 minutes. the degree of cerebral edema formation was determined by evans blue dye and coronal magnetic resonance imaging. all animals showed extravasation of evans blue dye in the retracted hemisphere that was most marked at the periphery of the retractor. t1 relaxation times were significantly prolonged in the retracted hemispheres of both the fast return and slow return groups (18.8% and 17.8%, respectively) and more so at the evans blue sites (42.8% and 40.8%), although not so strikingly beneath the retractor itself (6.3% and 7.8%). t2 relaxation times were similarly prolonged but to approximately half the degree of the t1 times. in the nonretracted hemisphere, drug-induced hypotension alone did not result in significant acute cerebral edema or blood-brain barrier alteration. there was no significant difference between the fast and slow groups in evans blue extravasation or magnetic resonance changes. thus, in a retractor-induced brain injury, restoration of arterial pressure to normal either gradually or rapidly did not influence the degree or extent of edema formation.
differential diagnosis of sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the common hepatic duct (klatskin tumors). although it is recognized that some other lesion may be the cause, a presumptive diagnosis of klatskin tumor is usually made when a focal stenotic lesion of the common hepatic duct is seen on a cholangiogram of a jaundiced patient. biopsy is so often nondiagnostic that decisions about therapy are usually made on the basis of the imaging tests and lack of evidence for some other disease. because the accuracy and consequences of this strategy have never been tested, we contrasted the preoperative diagnosis of klatskin tumor with the final diagnosis in 98 consecutive patients treated from 1985 to 1990. preoperative investigations included ultrasound and computed tomographic scans, percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and angiography. sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the bile duct were correctly diagnosed in 68 cases. the final diagnosis was other than a sclerosing adenocarcinoma in 30 (31%) cases. there were 5 papillary bile duct carcinomas, 12 gallbladder carcinomas invading the bile duct, 5 metastatic tumors to the bile duct, 2 cases of mirizzi syndrome, 3 granulomas, and 3 cases of idiopathic benign focal stenosis. patients with papillary adenocarcinomas had an extensive filling defect of the duct, which was often thought to be unresectable. however, four of these five lesions could be completely excised, and the tumor was confined to the duct wall in all four. the outcome of surgical treatment of the other eight patients with benign lesions was good in most cases. these findings demonstrate the pitfalls of assuming that a focal stenosis of the hepatic duct represents a sclerosing adenocarcinoma. the diagnosis is much less specific than is generally thought, so there is considerable opportunity for mismanaging such patients.
malignant fibrous histiocytoma developing in bone 44 years after shrapnel trauma. tumors induced by foreign bodies are uncommon in humans, but they are a relatively common occurrence in some experimental animals. the development of sarcoma in association with metallic foreign bodies has rarely been reported. the development of a malignant fibrous histiocytoma in a 65-year-old man 44 years after shrapnel fragments lodged in his left arm is described. the literature regarding metallic foreign body-induced cancer in humans is reviewed.
the effect of thromboxane synthetase inhibition on cardiopulmonary function during endotoxemia in sheep. the early pulmonary hypertension seen with endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide) has been reported as resulting from the release of thromboxane a2. we studied the cardiopulmonary response to endotoxin in sheep with and without treatment with a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor, oky-046. the animals were implanted with instruments for crystallographic dimension analysis of the left ventricle and measurement of left ventricular, aortic, left atrial, and pulmonary arterial pressures and cardiac index. thirteen sheep received 1.0 micrograms/kg of escherichia coli endotoxin with (n = 6) and without (n = 7) oky-046 (10 mg/kg bolus, then 10 micrograms/kg/min). oky-046 prevented the increase in pulmonary arterial pressure and decrease in cardiac index usually seen during the early phase of endotoxemia. between 8 and 12 hours after the administration of endotoxin, cardiac index increased from 6.4 +/- 0.8 to 8.4 +/- 0.8 l/min/m2. concomitantly, the end-systolic pressure/diameter relationship (a sensitive myocardial contractility index) significantly decreased from 14.7 +/- 0.6 to 7.7 +/- 0.7 mm hg/mm. another index of the left ventricular contractility, the maximum rate of pressure rise was also reduced. oky-046 prevented decreases in end-systolic pressure/diameter relationship and maximum rate of pressure rise.
continuous muscle fiber activity, peripheral neuropathy, and thymoma. two patients, one of them with myasthenia gravis, presented symptoms of continuous muscle fiber activity syndrome before discovery of a thymoma. peripheral neuropathy was present in both patients, with axonal and demyelinating lesions in sural nerve biopsy. the syndrome remained unchanged or worse after thymectomy. both patients died of associated complications.
collagen phenotypes during development and regression of myocardial hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats. the myocardium contains collagen matrix that is a major determinant of its architecture, structural integrity, and mechanical properties. this fibrillar matrix consists primarily of type i and type iii collagens having epimysial, perimysial, and endomysial components. the present study shows the alteration of collagen phenotypes during the evolution of hypertensive hypertrophy. therapy with captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor that regresses cardiac hypertrophy, not only reduces the total amount of collagen but reverses the altered distribution of type i and type iii collagen. in normotensive rats, captopril did not significantly reduce collagen content or alter the ratio of type i to type iii collagen.
ultrasound demonstration of a superior mesenteric artery aneurysm in a patient with ehlers-danlos syndrome. a large aneurysm of the superior mesenteric artery was the presumed cause of abdominal pain in an 11-year-old girl with ehlers-danlos syndrome. this aneurysm was readily identified by ultrasonography, suggesting that this method could be the diagnostic technique of choice in this disorder.
primary treatment of large and massive adult sarcomas with iododeoxyuridine and aggressive hyperfractionated irradiation. for a decade, the authors have experimented with treatment for unresectable adult soft tissue and bony sarcomas. over the last 6 years, they have combined hyperfractionated radiation therapy and intravenous iododeoxyuridine as a radiosensitizer, in regimens designed to minimize toxicity and permit delivery of aggressive radiation therapy. patients with solitary lesions and those with metastasis (38%) were treated in the hope of both potential cure in some and durable palliation in others. the most formidable of these cancers have been those that are large or massive, often requiring five or more fields and extensive treatment planning. the authors report results from 36 patients with large unresectable sarcomas (tumors ranging from 5 to 35 cm; average 14 cm) treated with hyperfractionated radiation therapy, with a minimum follow-up of 1 year, follow-up of 4 or more years (in 50%), or follow-up until death. overall local control has been 60%, with control of 66% of lesions from 5 to 9 cm, 63% of those from 10 to 14 cm, 63% of those from 15 to 19 cm, and 57% of those greater than 20 to 40 cm. morbidity has been modest. this experience compares favorably with the authors' earlier trials with misonidazole, and toxicity has been reduced considerably.
the effect of race on the relationship between fetal death and altered fetal growth. this population study examines racial differences in the relationship between birth weight and fetal death. an earlier report showed that a birth weight that results in a fourfold increased risk of stillbirth is not a constant birth weight percentile (2nd percentile at 25 weeks, 17th percentile at 42 weeks). this analysis was applied to 782,430 white and black births in illinois from 1980 to 1984. mean and 10th percentile growth for white and black infants is identical before 34 weeks' gestation and growth diverges by 250 gm at term, with white infants being larger. race-specific birth weights resulting in quadrupling of the stillbirth rate were determined with an exponential regression analysis of the relationship between birth weight and fetal death rate for each gestational age. the data indicate (1) that the birth weights resulting in quadrupling the stillbirth rate are substantially above the denver 10th percentile and the previously unpublished race-specific illinois 10th percentiles and (2) that at term white infants demonstrate this constant risk at the 12th percentile, whereas black infants exhibit the risk at the 18th percentile. from these data we conclude that black fetuses are more sensitive than white fetuses to factors that adversely affect growth and that continued use of "race-neutral" data for clinical management in racially heterogenous populations will not accurately predict the risk of stillbirth.
reversed helper/suppressor t-lymphocyte ratio in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with breast cancer and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. pneumocystis pneumonia (pcp) usually occurs in patients with hematologic malignancies and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). patients with solid tumors represent a very small fraction of the reported cases of pcp. over an 18-month period, pcp was diagnosed in three patients who had received radiation and chemotherapy for breast cancer. in all three patients, there was no serologic or clinical evidence of aids. direct staining of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (bal) revealed pneumocystis carinii, and cellular analysis of bal revealed an increased percentage of lymphocytes with reversed helper/inducer:suppressor/cytotoxic t-cell (cd4:cd8) ratio. because decreased cd4:cd8 ratio in bal is commonly accepted as findings consistent with hypersensitivity pneumonitis and aids, we conclude that similar findings in patients without aids are not specific for hypersensitivity pneumonitis, and p. carinii should be ruled out in the appropriate clinical setting.
hospital admissions from the surgical day care centre of vancouver general hospital 1977-1987. the admissions to vancouver general hospital from its surgical day care centre were reviewed for the period 1977 to 1987. the overall mean rate of admission for the period was 0.28 per cent, for surgically-related admissions 0.22 per cent and for anaesthesia-related admissions 0.07 per cent. the principal reasons for surgery-related admissions were postoperative bleeding, complications, the need for further surgery, the requirement for prolonged postoperative care, and pain. urology had a particularly high percentage of admissions compared with its workload, because of the diagnostic nature of much of the work. anaesthesia-related admissions included "syncope," lack of an accompanying adult, aspiration pneumonitis and coincident acute disease. twelve of the 14 patients admitted with syncope had surgery in the afternoon and had received less than ideal amounts of intravenous fluid. seven of the 12 asa physical status ii patients admitted had an admission diagnosis related to the coincident disease.
eustachian valve endocarditis. m mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed a highly mobile globular pedunculated mass(3.0 cm long with a maximum diameter of i.5 cm) attached to the eustachian valve in a heroin addict with staphylococcal endocarditis.
richner-hanhart's syndrome. electron microscopic study of the skin lesion. the plantar hyperkeratotic skin lesion in a case of richner-hanhart's syndrome was investigated using ultrastructural examination. light microscopic examination showed remarkable hyperkeratosis and some aberrant keratinocytes with multiple nuclei. on ultrastructural examination, some abnormal structures were seen in the affected keratinocytes: aggregations of tonofilaments and intracytoplasmic inclusions. the inclusions were needle shaped and were considered to be "crystal ghosts," presumably of tyrosine. the formation of tyrosine crystalline inclusions seems to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of the cutaneous lesions in richner-hanhart's syndrome.
maternal outcome after open fetal surgery. a review of the first 17 human cases. a few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth, but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother. to assess maternal risk of mortality, morbidity, and reproductive potential after fetal surgery, we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery. fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies: severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia. there were no deaths or serious maternal injuries. in the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy, uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications, requiring early confinement in most cases. there has been no detectable effect on future fertility, as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies. we conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother's life or her future reproductive potential. however, morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem, and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery.
hemodynamic effects of nasal cpap examined by doppler echocardiography. the effects of incremental application of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (0 to 15 cm h2o) on heart rate, pulmonary artery pressure, and cardiac index were studied noninvasively by doppler echocardiography. by two-way analysis of variance within two groups (19 normal volunteers and six sleep apnea patients), no significant effects on heart rate, pulmonary artery pressure, ventricular size, or cardiac index could be found with increasing positive intrathoracic pressures and consequent lung hyperinflation. in subjects with normal cardiac function, nasal cpap is safe from a hemodynamic viewpoint. this simple, repeatable and noninvasive technique may be used to assess the clinical safety and efficacy of prescribed nasal cpap on cardiac hemodynamics in individual patients.
identification of patients at greatest risk for developing major complications at cardiac surgery [published erratum appears in circulation 1991 jul;84(1):446] as part of a prospective program to use risk-adjusted outcome (operative mortality and morbidity) as a measure of quality of care, we have analyzed perioperative complication data in 10,634 patients representing 73% of all patients undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass at veterans administration medical centers between april 1, 1987, and march 31, 1989. one or more complications occurred in 15% of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, and in 24% of patients undergoing valve and other cardiac surgery. patients experiencing one or more complications had an eightfold to 10-fold increase in operative mortality compared with patients with no perioperative complications. the most frequent complication was requirement for mechanical ventilation for at least 48 hours occurring in 8% of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass and in 15% of patients undergoing valve and other cardiac surgery; 24-25% of these patients died within 30 days of surgery or as a direct result of a surgical complication. previous heart surgery was a strong predictor of development of one or more complications in both groups of patients, being associated with an adjusted relative risk of 1.6-2.0. other important predictors in both surgical groups were surgical priority, older age, peripheral vascular disease, and higher serum creatinine. although a number of preoperative risk factors could be identified for the development of renal failure, low cardiac output, and requirement for prolonged mechanical support, few risk factors could be identified for the development of mediastinitis and reoperation for bleeding. this observation suggests that mediastinitis and reoperation for bleeding are more likely the result of technical factors rather than patient-related risk factors.
ultrasound-guided aspiration for transient synovitis of the hip. we reviewed 15 children with transient synovitis of the hip who had aspiration of an effusion under local anaesthesia with ultrasound guidance. there were no significant complications; aspiration was useful for diagnosis and gave considerable symptomatic relief. we discuss the role of ultrasound in diagnosis and treatment.
variceal sclerosis in schistosomotic patients: a 5-year follow-up study. to assess the therapeutic possibilities of injection sclerosis in schistosomotic portal hypertension, a 5-year prospective study was conducted in northeast brazil, where this parasitosis is endemic. fifty patients undergoing endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from rupture of esophageal varices from july through december 1981 were chosen for the study. the 32 consenting patients were submitted to injection sclerotherapy paravariceally, using ethanolamine oleate; the 18 refusing to participate were assigned to the control group. the incidence of rebleeding was 28.1% in the former and 44.5% in the latter, a difference which was not statistically significant (fisher's test, p = 0.375). mortality from rupture of esophageal varices was 3.1% in the sclerotherapy group and 27.7% in the control group, a statistically significant difference (fischer's test, p = 0.017). since sclerotherapy markedly improved the long-term survival rate of the patients, this procedure is advocated for the treatment of esophageal varices in cases of portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis.
mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. the mitochondrial diseases present with great heterogeneity. they are often multisystemic and vary considerably in age at onset, distribution of weakness, severity, and course. only nonthyroidal hypermetabolism has a distinctive clinical presentation. therefore, attempts at classification have generated some controversy. this article discusses the general classification that takes into account genetic and biochemical features, which has resulted from the fast pace of biochemical and molecular genetic investigations.
suppressive effects of visceral tumor on the generation of antitumor t cells for adoptive immunotherapy. antitumor reactive cells can be generated from lymphoid organs of mice bearing subcutaneous (sc), but not liver or lung, tumors by in vitro sensitization with irradiated tumor and interleukin 2. to examine whether visceral tumors mediated tumor-induced suppression, in vitro sensitization cells were generated from mice bearing sc tumors with and without concomitant liver or lung tumors. antitumor efficacy of these cells was assessed in adoptive immunotherapy experiments. the presence of visceral tumors suppressed the ability to generate therapeutic in vitro sensitization cells from mice with sc tumors. by establishing visceral tumors at different intervals in relationship to sc tumor inoculation, we found that visceral tumor appeared to suppress directly the development of a host immune response to sc tumor, rather than inhibit function of established immune cells. our model affords a means to study mechanisms of tumor-induced immunosuppression.
molteno implants and operating microscope-induced retinal phototoxicity. a clinicopathologic report. the right eye of a 75-year-old man with a history of cataract extraction, three penetrating keratoplasties, laser trabeculoplasty, two molteno implants, and an operating microscope-induced retinal phototoxic lesion was studied post mortem. histopathologic examination of the anterior segment showed evidence of penetrating keratoplasty, cataract surgery, and two molteno implants with minimal associated tissue response. ultrastructural examination showed a loose collagenous matrix surrounding the molteno reservoirs, suggesting aqueous percolation from the reservoirs into the conjunctiva. posteriorly, in the area of the phototoxic operating microscope-induced lesion, a nodule of retinal pigment epithelial hyperplasia with overlying atrophy of the photoreceptor cell layer of the neurosensory retina was noted. the retina also contained cystoid macular edema and an extensive preretinal membrane that was clinically unexpected.
myocardial preservation using lidocaine blood cardioplegia. prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization. patients were similar with respect to age, ventricular function, severity of coronary artery disease, cross-clamp time, completeness of revascularization, frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting, systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal, and mean infusate volume and temperature. patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia (group 1, 23 patients) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (22% versus 74%; p less than 0.0005) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart (0.5 +/- 1.3 versus 1.9 +/- 0.97; p less than 0.0005) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls (group 2, 23 patients). there were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release, hemodynamic measurements, or clinical outcome. patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation (9% versus 26%). ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups. we conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping.
educational policies. it is vital that teachers, parents, and health professionals recognize the major educational problems that affect students with epilepsy. children with epilepsy should be placed in the least restrictive schooling environment so that social, emotional, and educational requirements can be met in a setting best suited to the individual's present needs and future development. personal assessment and monitoring of progress form an equally important part of a child's educational program in integrated schools, but there is a need to develop suitable instruments to assist teachers in their assessments and decision making. in australia, the national epilepsy association has developed an "alert kit" based on the epilepsy foundation of americas "school alert kit" to provide basic medical information on epilepsy to teachers and pupils.
t-cell subsets with a naive phenotype are selectively decreased in the peripheral blood of patients with mycosis fungoides. peripheral blood lymphocytes of 33 patients with histopathologic confirmation of mycosis fungoides and 27 healthy controls matched for age and sex were analyzed with a panel of monoclonal antibodies using both single and dual color immunofluorescence. patients with mycosis fungoides had a significant reduction in the percentage of circulating t cells with a naive phenotype (i.e., cd4+2h4+ and cd4+leu8+), as well as a significant reduction in the absolute numbers of circulating lymphocytes with the phenotype cd8+leu8+ compared to the control cohort. the reduction in circulating naive t cells was found to occur irrespective of stage of disease, duration of disease, or mode of treatment. the depletion of circulating naive t cells may reflect increased conversion to memory t cells in the peripheral blood or skin.
high resolution real-time ultrasound for the diagnosis of venous thrombosis in the rehabilitation setting. accurate, noninvasive testing for deep venous thrombosis (dvt) by conventional methods is often not possible in the rehabilitation patient. lower extremity amputation, a cast or bandage, or skin problems present obstacles to standard diagnostic methods. this report describes the use of duplex ultrasound (us) scanning for noninvasive diagnosis of dvt in a seventy-year-old man with a below-knee amputation, on whom doppler and plethysmography examinations could not be performed. as experience is gained with this technique, the use of venography for diagnosis of dvt becomes more difficult to rationalize.
gastroesophageal reflux and respiratory symptoms: is there an association? proposed mechanisms and treatment. gastroesophageal reflux (ger) is a dysfunction of the distal esophagus causing movement of stomach contents into the esophagus. patients may develop heartburn, regurgitation, dysphagia, odynophagia, and hemorrhage. respiratory symptoms occur in 10-60 percent of patients with ger or hiatal hernia. although there is evidence associating pulmonary symptoms and ger, causality has not been proven. the appropriate use of antireflux therapy or surgery to treat ger may consequently alleviate respiratory symptoms.
diffuse-adhering escherichia coli (daec) as a putative cause of diarrhea in mayan children in mexico. diarrhea is a major cause of infantile morbidity and mortality in developing countries. a community-based, case control study was conducted in a southern mexican mayan village for 3 weeks during the peak diarrhea period to prospectively identify the infectious agents associated with childhood diarrheal disease. several enteropathogens were isolated from stools of 34 of 58 cases, although none was significantly associated with diarrhea. for the 24 cases from which no enteropathogens were isolated, diffuse-adhering escherichia coli (daec) strains were significantly associated with diarrheal disease (p less than .02; odds ratio = 6; 95% confidence limit, 1.08-99.0). daec were highly heterogeneous with respect to plasmid content and serotype. three dna probes designed to differentiate e. coli exhibiting localized, diffuse, or aggregative adherence were compared with results from a standard hela cell binding assay to assess the utility of these probes in the field. this study provides evidence for the potential pathogenic capacity of daec and underscores the variety of diarrheal agents operating within a community.
premalignant lesions: role of antioxidant vitamins and beta-carotene in risk reduction and prevention of malignant transformation. epidemiological studies have shown that diets rich in one or more antioxidant nutrients may reduce the risk of cancers of the lung, uterine cervix, mouth, and gastrointestinal tract. study of premalignant lesions offers a comparatively expedient approach to identifying and evaluating the efficacy of the cancer chemopreventive components of foods. some recent findings suggest roles for beta-carotene and/or vitamin c in reversing or reducing the risk of cervical dysplasia and oral leukoplakia. there are some indications that vitamin c and beta-carotene may reduce the risk of atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer. additional epidemiological and molecular biology studies and clinical intervention trials using premalignant lesions as the marker of specific cancer risks should become an important component of future research in the area of cancer chemoprevention.
epidermal growth factor receptor expression in colorectal cancer. epidermal growth factor (egf) receptor expression was estimated in 50 invasive human colorectal cancers using immunohistochemistry and the degree of expression was quantified from integrated optical density measurements on the stained sections. all tumours stained positively, but dukes' c tumours exhibited significantly higher levels of receptor than either dukes' a or b tumours. in addition, histologically high grade cancers expressed receptors more strongly than those of low grade. it is concluded that a high egf receptor concentration is associated with poor prognostic factors in colorectal malignancy.
liver transplantation in children. although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease, relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children, and good results have been elusive. technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success. at the university of california at los angeles, 39% of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years. we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure. one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children (mean age, 5.2 years; 48% younger than 3 years). no reduced-size grafts were used. scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction, including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques, ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation. preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds, resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes. cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks, and anti-t-cell antibody (okt3) was used for rejection (38%). amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations. eighty-two of one hundred three patients (80%) are alive. there were no intraoperative deaths. actuarial survival rates at 6 months, 1 year, and 5 years are 80%, 79%, and 77%, respectively. survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65% versus 85% at age more than 1 year (p = 0.08). retransplantation was performed in 19 patients (18%), with a survival rate of 58%. hepatic artery thrombosis, the most frequent technical complication, occurred in only 16 patients (13%). survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96% and 60%, respectively (p = 0.02). graft survival was only 47% if more than one steroid cycle was needed, compared to 75% survival with okt3 treatment. despite impairment of renal function (glomerular filtration rate [gfr] less than 80 cc/kg/min) in 54% of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27%, 90% of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth, development, and functional status. the following conclusions were made. (1) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early. (2) factors that enhance survival include technical precision, aggressive retransplantation, antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy, and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
laboratory parameters to monitor safety and efficacy during thrombolytic therapy. thrombolytic therapy is being used with increasing frequency in myocardial infarction (mi), pulmonary embolism, deep venous thrombosis (dvt), and peripheral arterial occlusion. use of these agents, however, is hampered by concerns regarding safety and efficacy. numerous laboratory parameters have been evaluated for monitoring the risk of bleeding complications, with levels of fibrinogen (and percentage of decrease) and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products (fdps) correlating to a variable extent with clinical bleeding. the bleeding time (bt) test has also been proposed as a potential predictor of bleeding during thrombolytic therapy. with respect to efficacy, the d-dimer fragment of fdps, when corrected for soluble fibrin polymers, has been shown to correlate with clot lysis in venous thromboembolism but not mi. the bt also is being considered as a marker of lysis in patients with dvt. given the increasing concomitant use of antiplatelet agents during thrombolytic therapy, the bt, as an in vivo test of hemostasis and platelet function, has potential utility as a noninvasive, adjunctive marker of thrombolytic efficacy.
localization of malignant melanoma using monoclonal antibodies. finding a screening test to evaluate patients with cancer for occult metastatic disease, as well as imaging all known disease, is a goal of research efforts. twenty-nine evaluable patients with deeply invasive (stage i), regional nodal (stage ii), or systemic (stage iii) melanoma underwent imaging by administration of a preparation of the antimelanoma antibody labeled with technetium 99m. scan results indicated that 28 of 32 confirmed metastatic sites were imaged with this technique (88% sensitivity). analysis of the individual positive sites revealed that nodal basins and visceral metastases accounted for the highest percentage of metastatic sites imaged, with 14 (88%) of 16 nodal basin metastases and all four visceral metastases being detected through imaging. occult nodal disease was detected in the iliac nodal chain in two of the 29 patients. the imaging of benign tumors and nodal basins not containing disease accounted for a confirmed false-positive rate of 21%. three (10%) of the 29 scan results were confirmed to be false-negative. in vivo tumor localization with monoclonal antibodies showed a sensitivity similar to that of other roentgenographic procedures for identifying metastatic disease and was useful in two of three patients in identifying occult iliac nodal disease, a region that is difficult to evaluate with physical examination and other imaging modalities.
coronary angioplasty of anomalous coronary arteries: notes on technical aspects. five patients with significant atherosclerotic lesions of anomalous coronary arteries underwent coronary angioplasty of the anomalous vessel. four patients had anomalous circumflex artery and 1 had an anomalous right coronary artery. angiographic and clinical success was achieved in all 5 patients. to ensure adequate equipment selection special consideration should be given to angiographic characteristics of these vessels, such as the orifice configuration, exit angulation, the route the artery traverses and the location of the stenotic lesions. major determinants for successful angioplasty in these patients are guiding catheter selection and advancement of the balloon catheter to the very proximal portion of the anomalous vessel to subsequently facilitate guide wire advancement. this data indicates that balloon angioplasty can be successfully utilized in patients with significant atherosclerotic disease of anomalous coronary arteries.
exposing patients with chronic, stable, exertional angina to placebo periods in drug trials. because the safety of withholding standard therapy and enrolling patients with stable angina in placebo-controlled trials is not known, we identified all events leading to dropout from trials of 12 antianginal drugs submitted in support of new drug applications to the us food and drug administration. persons who dropped out of the trials were classified as cause due to adverse cardiovascular events or other causes without knowledge of drug assignment. there were 3161 subjects who entered any randomized, double-blind phase of placebo-controlled protocols; 197 (6.2%) withdrew because of cardiovascular events. there was no difference in risk of adverse events between drug and placebo groups. a prospectively defined subgroup analysis showed that groups who received calcium antagonists were at an increased risk of dropout compared with placebo groups (p = .04), primarily because of a disproportionate number of adverse events in studies of one drug. in conclusion, there were few adverse experiences associated with short-term placebo use. withholding active treatment does not increase the risk of serious cardiac events.
loss of endothelium-dependent relaxant activity in the pulmonary circulation of rats exposed to chronic hypoxia. to determine whether exposure to chronic hypoxia and subsequent development of pulmonary hypertension induces alterations of endothelium-dependent relaxation in rat pulmonary vascular bed, we studied isolated lung preparations from rats exposed to either room air (controls) or hypoxia (h) during 1 wk (1w-h), 3 wk (3w-h), or 3w-h followed by 48 h recovery to room air (3wh + r). in lungs pretreated with meclofenamate (3 microm), the endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (10(-9)-10(-6) m) and ionophore a23187 (10(-9)-10(-7) m) were examined during conditions of increased tone by u46619 (50 pmol/min). acetylcholine or a23187 produced dose-dependent vasodilation in control lungs, this response was reduced in group 1w-h (p less than 0.02), abolished in group 3w-h (p less than 0.001), and restored in group 3wh + r. in contrast, the endothelium-independent vasodilator agent sodium nitroprusside remained fully active in group 3w-h. the pressor response to 300 pm endothelin was greater in group 3w-h than in controls (6.8 +/- 0.5 mmhg vs. 1.6 +/- 0.2 mmhg, p less than 0.001) but was not potentiated by the endothelium-dependent relaxing factor (edrf) antagonists: hydroquinone (10(-4) m); methylene blue (10(-4) m); and pyrogallol (3 x 10(-5) m) as it was in controls. it was similar to controls in group 3w-h + r. our results demonstrate that hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension is associated with a loss of edrf activity in pulmonary vessels, with a rapid recovery on return to a normoxic environment.
basal cell carcinoma recurring after radiotherapy: a unique, difficult treatment subclass of recurrent basal cell carcinoma. twenty-seven basal cell carcinomas (bccs) recurring following radiation therapy alone or in addition to other treatment modalities were treated with mohs micrographic surgery (mms) from 1983 to 1989. mean tumor size was 2.1 cm. of the tumors, 70.4% arose in the mid-face region, 55.6% had undergone multiple previous treatment modalities. the present recurrence rate is 7.4% (mean follow-up: 25 months). basal cell carcinoma recurring following radiotherapy deserves special subclassification among recurrent bcc. it is very difficult to eradicate, with high recurrence rates following standard surgical excision or further radiotherapy. tumors are usually large, aggressive, and invasive. most arise in the cosmetically crucial mid-face region, where extension into subcutaneous tissue planes is common. mohs surgery, with its inherent abilities to examine all margins, map tumor extension, and conserve tissue, is uniquely suited to treatment of these difficult tumors.
bell's palsy. ensuring the best possible outcome. bell's palsy is thought to be an idiopathic polyneuritis and must be distinguished from other disorders that cause facial weakness. in most cases, differentiation can be accomplished on the basis of the history, physical examination, and clinical course. routine follow-up care ensures that recovery is occurring. electrodiagnostic testing often helps to assess prognosis. eye care and corticosteroid therapy are recommended.
depressed adenoma of the stomach, revisited. histologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical profiles. for 52 patients with depressed adenomas of the stomach, histopathologic studies were done on 56 tumors and for 43 of them, histochemical and immunohistochemical features were examined. in addition, nondepressed adenomas (n = 57) and the depressed type of early gastric adenocarcinomas of the well-differentiated variety (n = 44) were studied as the controls. depressed adenomas in the majority (73%) involved the entire thickness of the mucous membrane of the stomach with tubules of atypical epithelium, presenting a severe grade in many of the cases (41%). paneth's cells were found in cases of a depressed adenoma, in significantly higher percentages (61%) than in those with a nondepressed adenoma (p less than 0.01). the frequency of cases with argyrophil cells was also higher in depressed adenoma (63%) than in nondepressed adenoma (36%) or in cases of early gastric carcinoma (32%). carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) and carbohydrate antigen (ca) 19-9 were noticed in tumor cells, immunohistochemically in 28% of the cases with depressed adenoma, the frequency being intermediate between cases of a benign nondepressed adenoma (6% for both cea and ca 19-9) and cases of early gastric carcinoma (71% for cea and 66% for ca 19-9). no difference was noticed in lectin reactivity and mucin content between depressed and nondepressed adenomas, whereas tumor cells in the early depressed carcinoma had a higher lectin reactivity and less mucin content than those seen in the adenomas. it would thus appear that depressed adenoma is a benign neoplastic lesion; however, the malignant potential of this lesion is somewhat higher than the nondepressed counterpart, as indicated by the immunoreactivity to tumor markers and follow-up results reported by colleagues previously.
neuroendocrine features of reactive bile ductules in cholestatic liver disease. various cholestatic liver diseases are accompanied by a striking increase in the number of bile ductules. this so-called ductular reaction is thought to arise both from ductular metaplasia of hepatocytes and from proliferation of pre-existing bile ductules. previous studies have shown that these reactive bile ductules differ from their normal counterpart in enzyme and immunohistochemical make-up. using monoclonal antibodies directed to neuroendocrine markers and immunohistochemistry, we found that reactive bile ductules in cholestatic liver disease display neuroendocrine features. in all cases of primary biliary cirrhosis (pbc), primary sclerosing cholangitis (psc), extrahepatic obstruction, and acute hepatitis a, reactive bile ductules expressed the neural cell adhesion molecule (n-cam) and reacted with monoclonal antibody a2b5. both n-cam and the ganglioside, recognized by a2b5, are restricted to neuroendocrine cells and tissues. in all but four of these cases, the same bile ductules expressed chromogranin-a, present in the matrix of neuroendocrine granules. furthermore, in three cases of longstanding cholestasis, scattered periportal hepatocytes expressed chromogranin-a but not n-cam. other neuroendocrine markers such as neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, or myelin-associated glycoprotein were lacking from both bile ductules and hepatocytes. the neuroendocrine phenotype of bile ductules and hepatocytes was confirmed on electronmicroscopy, demonstrating various numbers of dense-cored, neuroendocrine granules near the peripheral cell membrane in bile ductules as well as in cells intermediate between hepatocytes and bile ductular cells. in 10 cases of normal liver tissue without ductular reaction, bile ductules lacked neuroendocrine markers except in two cases in which very weak reactivity for chromogranin-a was observed. these findings illustrate the presence of a new, neuroendocrine cell type that emerges in the liver during cholestasis. elucidation of the significance of the neuroendocrine substance(s) produced in the dense cored granules of reactive bile ductules awaits their isolation and characterization. we can speculate that this molecule plays an autocrine or paracrine regulatory role in the process of ductular metaplasia of hepatocytes or growth of bile ductules.
cruciate paralysis: a clinical and radiographic analysis of injuries to the cervicomedullary junction. fourteen patients with superior cervical spinal cord injuries and the clinical signs and symptoms of cruciate paralysis are presented. this rare injury pattern is characterized by weakness of the upper extremities with little or no compromise of lower-extremity function following trauma to the superior spinal cord. anatomically, cruciate paralysis is thought to represent selective injury to descending corticospinal tracts as they decussate at the cervicomedullary junction. the clinical and radiographic findings of each patient are outlined and the incidence and natural history of the injury syndrome, including a review of the literature, are presented.
impact of the availability of a prior electrocardiogram on the triage of the patient with acute chest pain study objective: to determine whether information from a prior electrocardiogram (ecg) improves diagnostic accuracy in the emergency department (ed) evaluation of patients with acute chest pain. design: analysis of prospectively collected data from a cohort study. setting: emergency departments of four community and three university hospitals. patients: 5,673 patients aged greater than or equal to 30 years who presented to the eds of participating hospitals for evaluation of acute chest pain, including 772 (14%) with acute myocardial infarction (ami). measurements and main results: after adjusting for clinical characteristics, no significant difference was found in the sensitivities of admission to the hospital or to the coronary care unit (ccu) between ami patients with and without prior ecgs available for review. however, non-ami patients with prior ecgs available for review were more likely to avoid ccu admission than were non-ami patients without prior ecgs. this improvement in specificity was most marked in the 2,024 patients whose current ed ecgs had changes consistent with ischemia or infarction: when a prior ecg was available, non-ami patients were more than twice as likely to be discharged (26% vs. 12%) and about 1.5 times as likely to avoid ccu admission (39% vs. 27%) (both p less than 0.0001). admission rates of ami patients with and without prior ecgs were similar. conclusion: when the current ecg is consistent with ischemia or infarction, the availability of a prior ecg for comparison to determine whether the ecg changes are old or new improves diagnostic accuracy and triage decisions by reducing the admission of patients without ami or acute ischemic heart disease (increased specificity) without reducing the admission of patients with these diagnoses (unchanged sensitivity).
bile duct emptying in response to fat: a validation study. fatty meal sonography has been suggested to assess patients with biliary pain after cholecystectomy, but the effects of gallbladder removal on biliary dynamics has not been studied prospectively. before elective cholecystectomy, 25 patients had their common hepatic ducts' diameter measured by ultrasonography before and after a fat stimulus. in 23, tests were repeated 1 month, 1 year, and 5 years after surgery. in preoperative studies, 5 patients showed dilatation after fat and 2 of these had stones in the common bile duct. however, another 4 patients with stones or sludge in the duct did not show dilatation, so that the response to fat was a poor indicator of patients requiring common bile duct exploration. no patient had major symptoms after surgery. at 1 month and 12 months, the response to fat was variable with more than half of those tested showing no decrease in duct size. a more consistent pattern emerged at 5 years, when 14 of 18 patients tested showed a decrease in common hepatic duct after fat; 3 were unchanged and 1 increased by 1 mm. the response to fat was less consistent and more difficult to measure in the common bile duct, even 5 years after operation. it was concluded that not all patients with indications for exploration of the common bile duct on operative cholangiography show a dilatation response to fat on preoperative testing. also, fatty meal sonography should be used with caution because the response to fat in asymptomatic patients soon after operation is unpredictable, with occasional patients showing dilation without apparent obstruction. measurement of common hepatic duct is preferred to common bile duct and increases in diameter of 1 mm are probably not significant.
patterns of acute respiratory tract infection in children: a longitudinal study in a depressed community in metro manila. the incidences of acute respiratory tract infection (ari) and acute lower respiratory infection (alri) were 6.1 and 0.5 per child-year, respectively, in children less than 5 years old in a depressed urban community in manila. the peak age-specific incidence occurred in those children 6-23 months old for ari and 6-11 months old for alri. age less than 2 years, malnutrition, household crowding, and parental smoking were associated with a statistically significant, though modest, increase in ari morbidity. the crude mortality rate was 14.3 per 1,000 children 0-4 years old, with a corresponding ari-specific mortality rate of 8.9 per 1,000. the prevalence of viral infection was 32.8 and that of bacteremic alri was 6.7 per 1,000 children with moderate alri. respiratory syncytial virus was the predominant viral pathogen, while streptococcus pneumoniae, haemophilus influenzae, and staphylococcus aureus were the most frequently isolated bacterial pathogens. transmission of respiratory pathogens in depressed communities, facilitated by inadequate housing, inaccessible health services, and prevalent malnutrition, will continue unless meaningful socioeconomic improvement is realized.
osteoid osteoma of the scapula. a case report and review of the literature. the scapula is a rare location for osteoid osteoma, which in most cases does not involve the flat bones. the en bloc excision in this uncommon location can be problematic since the surgical exposure is difficult, and shoulder joint function can be affected if the lesion is subchondral. in an 18-year-old man, an osteoid osteoma was located in the subchondral area of the glenoid. a guided needle biopsy of the nidus resulted in complete healing. this mode of treatment, with proper follow-up examination, is acceptable for a benign lesion situated in a problematic location.
inhaled albuterol and oral prednisone therapy in hospitalized adult asthmatics. does aminophylline add any benefit? study objective: to determine the efficacy of intravenous aminophylline in the treatment of adult patients hospitalized for exacerbation of asthma. design: randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial throughout the study. setting: university hospital clinical research center. patients: forty-four patients admitted from the emergency room with a primary diagnosis asthma; 39 patients completed the study. interventions: patients received either intravenous aminophylline or placebo in addition to frequent nebulized albuterol; prednisone 0.5 mg/kg body weight every 6 h orally; and supplemental oxygen. aminophylline infusion rates were adjusted to achieve serum theophylline concentrations of 10 to 20 micrograms/ml. changes were made in placebo infusion rates to maintain the double blind design. measurements and results: forced expiratory volume in 1 s (fev1) and other spirometric measurements every 8 h by a blinded investigator or trained respiratory therapist. subjective patient response and duration of hospitalization were compared. no difference in spirometric measurements was observed between the two groups at any time point. on admission to the study, fev1 in the placebo group was 41.5 (+/- 2.9) percent predicted and in the aminophylline group 34.7 (+/- 2.3) percent predicted (p = 0.08). at discharge, fev1 was 70.4 (+/- 2.9) percent predicted in the placebo group and 63.7 (+/- 2.8) percent predicted in the theophylline group (p = 0.10). there was no difference in subjective patient rating or duration of hospitalization between the two groups (placebo 1.95 days and aminophylline 1.78 days, p = 0.51). conclusions: our results suggest that aminophylline therapy does not add significant benefit to other standard therapies in hospitalized adult asthmatic patients. because of the risks and cost of aminophylline treatment in the hospital setting, further research is needed to determine if there are subgroups of adult asthmatics who may benefit from the addition of aminophylline to other standard optimal therapies.
anterior decompression and stabilization of thoracolumbar burst fractures by the use of the slot-zielke device. between july 1983 and november 1986, 29 patients with thoracolumbar burst fractures underwent a one-stage operation consisting of anterior decompression by subtotal vertebrectomy, reduction, and stabilization with the slot-zielke device. the mean follow-up was 3.1 years. most patients with incomplete neurologic lesions showed postoperative improvement and were upgraded one or two steps in the frankel scale. no patient showed neurologic deterioration after surgery. in all patients, bony union occurred. loss of reduction of more than 5 degrees occurred in 41% of the patients. because of this high rate of loss of reduction in patients and the low degree of flexion-bending loading and torsional stability in biomechanical evaluation in vitro of the slot-zielke device on human cadaveric spines, an additional posterior stabilization of the spine after an anterior approach for anterior- and middle-column fractures should be considered.
vascular entrapment of intra-aortic balloon after short-term balloon counterpulsation. prolonged, continuous intra-aortic balloon (iab) counterpulsation for several weeks can result in balloon entrapment secondary to thrombus formation in the balloon lumen. in this report, we describe a patient who developed iab entrapment, early (1 wk) after initiation of counterpulsation. a trace amount of blood was noted in the tubing connecting the balloon catheter to the console for 3 days prior to iab malfunction and vascular entrapment. we suggest that the balloon catheter be removed immediately when blood is detected in the external connecting tubing even if the iab is functioning satisfactorily.
compressive neuropathy of spinal nerve roots. a mechanical or biological problem? pathophysiologically, nerve root pain production is a complex issue. for many years, mechanical compression has been regarded as the sole cause for such pain. there are indications, however, that other factors, such as intraneural inflammation, may be of importance in this context. in this article, four cases are presented in which nerve root related pain gradually resolved without any proven change in the mechanical deformation of the involved nerve root. the data presented here suggest that mechanical compression, per se, may not always be the sole cause of radicular pain and dysfunction. these findings suggest that improvement is needed in our understanding of the pathophysiology of nerve root compression and inflammation.
effect of intraarterial versus intravenous cisplatin in addition to systemic doxorubicin, high-dose methotrexate, and ifosfamide on histologic tumor response in osteosarcoma (study coss-86). in osteosarcoma, intraarterial (ia) administration of systemic treatment has been advocated to improve local tumor response preparing for, or even obviating, definitive surgery. because data from the literature did not unequivocally support the local superiority of ia infusion, a comparative study was started in 1986. preoperative chemotherapy consisted of 45 mg/m2 of doxorubicin on days 1 and 2; 12 g/m2 of high-dose methotrexate on days 15 and 22; and 3 g/m2 of ifosfamide on days 29, 30, 50, and 51 followed on days 31 and 52 by intravenous (iv) versus ia tourniquet infusion of cisplatin (ddp). a strict randomization of patients was not feasible. a balanced distribution of risk factors was strived for by stratifying and allocating the appropriate patients centrally. the infusion time was prolonged from 1 to 5 hours in the iv group, and the ddp dose was reduced from 150 to 120 mg/m2 in both arms when intolerable ototoxicity became apparent. a multivariate analysis was performed to exclude a bias on the response rates from risk factor distribution and from modifications of ddp infusion time and dosage. the overall fraction of histologic good responders (greater than 90% necrosis) was not found to be different after ia versus iv treatment (34/50 [68%] vs. 41/59 [69%]). intraarterial instead of iv use of ddp within an aggressive systemic treatment does not seem to improve the local tumor response.
phenobarbital and cerebral blood flow during hypertension in the newborn beagle. phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations (15 to 40 micrograms/ml serum) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages. although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial, phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles. in this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles. at anticonvulsant dosage, phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure. this phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis, and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis. phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow, with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure.
ten-year follow-up of survival and myocardial infarction in the randomized coronary artery surgery study the coronary artery surgery study (cass) randomized 780 patients to an initial strategy of coronary surgery or medical therapy. of medically randomized patients, 6% had surgery within 6 months and a total of 40% had surgery by 10 years. at 10 years, there was no difference in cumulative survival (medical, 79% vs. surgical, 82%; ns) and no difference in percentage free of death and nonfatal myocardial infarction (medical, 69% vs. surgical, 66%; ns). patients with an ejection fraction of less than 0.50 exhibited a better survival with initial surgery treatment (medical, 61% vs. surgical, 79%; p = 0.01). conversely, patients with an ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 exhibited a higher proportion free of death and myocardial infarction with initial medical therapy (medical, 75% vs. surgical, 68%; p = 0.04) although long-term survival remained unaffected (medical, 84% vs. surgical, 83%; p = 0.75). there were no significant differences either in survival and freedom from nonfatal myocardial infarction, whether stratified on presence of heart failure, age, hypertension, or number of vessels diseased. thus, 10-year follow-up results confirm earlier reports from cass that patients with left ventricular dysfunction exhibit long-term benefit from an initial strategy of surgical treatment. patients with mild stable angina and normal left ventricular function randomized to initial medical treatment (with an option for later surgery if symptoms progress) have survival equivalent to those patients randomized to initial surgery.
anaesthetic management of the brain dead for organ donation. an increasing number of anaesthetists is being called upon to manage organ donors during organ retrieval procedures. we briefly describe the technical aspects of the surgical procedure together with a guide to the anaesthetic management. the aims of the latter may be summarized as the "rule of 100": systolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmhg, urine output greater than 100 ml.hr-1, pao2 greater than 100 mmhg, haemoglobin concentration greater than 100 g.l-1. common management problems (hypotension, arrhythmias, diabetes insipidus, oliguria, and coagulopathy) are discussed in detail. the intraoperative management of the brain-dead organ donor provides the anaesthetist with the challenge of a major surgical procedure in a subject with important physiological derangements.
postanginal sepsis with dysphagia. we have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis. streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy, and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis. the patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics.
benign parotid tumors: a 24-year experience. the medical records of 125 patients benign parotid neoplasms surgically treated over a 24-year period were retrospectively reviewed; 128 tumors were excised. these included 90 pleomorphic adenomas, 33 warthin's tumors, 3 benign lymphoepitheliomas, and 2 oncocytomas. the surgical procedures consisted of 2 local excisions, 6 enucleations, 88 superficial parotidectomies, 13 subtotal parotidectomies, and 3 radical parotidectomies. the morbidity rate was 49%. there was one total permanent facial nerve paralysis (0.7%), four (3%) partial permanent facial nerve paralysis, five (5%) transient total facial nerve paralysis, and 32 (25%) partial transient facial nerve paralysis. after a median follow-up of 84 months, there was one recurrence (0.7%). a superficial parotidectomy is the minimum procedure that should be performed for the treatment of a benign parotid neoplasm.
magnetic resonance imaging white matter lesions and cognitive impairment in hypertensive individuals. to search for a morphologic basis of cognitive impairment possibly associated with essential hypertension, we studied 35 otherwise asymptomatic hypertensive individuals (mean age, 38.7 years; range, 22 to 49 years) and 20 normotensive control subjects (mean age, 37.9 years; range, 26 to 49 years) using neuropsychologic tests and magnetic resonance imaging. irrespective of drug treatment, hypertensive individuals performed significantly worse than did control subjects when assessed for verbal memory and total learning and memory capacity, while there were no differences in test results of visual memory, attention, vigilance, and reaction time. the hypertensive individuals also described themselves as less active but ranked similar on five other mood subscales. punctate high-signal intensities of the white matter were found almost twice as often in the hypertensive group (38%) as in the control group (20%). there was no difference in test performance between hypertensive individuals with and those without white matter lesions, however. our results confirm the presence of subtle neuropsychologic deficits and indicate a higher frequency of white matter signal abnormalities in essential hypertension, as shown on magnetic resonance imaging, but do not indicate a correlation of these findings with each other.
retroviral recombination and reverse transcription. recombination occurs at a high rate in retroviral replication, and its observation requires a virion containing two different rna molecules (heterodimeric particles). analysis of retroviral recombinants formed after a single round of replication revealed that (i) the nonselected markers changed more frequently than expected from the rate of recombination of selected markers; (ii) the transfer of the initially synthesized minus strand strong stop dna was either intramolecular or intermolecular; (iii) the transfer of the first synthesized plus strand strong stop dna was always intramolecular; and (iv) there was a strong correlation between the type of transfer of the minus strand strong stop dna and the number of template switches observed. these data suggest that retroviral recombination is ordered and occurs during the synthesis of both minus and plus strand dna.
hemibody irradiation in advanced prostatic carcinoma. in summary, hemibody irradiation has developed as a safe, efficient technique for palliating multiple sites of symptomatic osseous metastases, which occur so often in advanced prostatic carcinoma. the rapidity, frequency, and duration of pain relief, as well as the convenience to the patient of a solitary treatment to multiple symptomatic areas simultaneously, make this type of treatment especially appealing. by following premedication and radiation dose guidelines, both acute and delayed side effects can be kept tolerable or at a minimal incidence. although sequential hemibody radiation has also been explored as "systemic" therapy, the results in prostatic carcinoma have not proved dramatic, and complications have been considerable. hormonal therapy would certainly seem to be less life-threatening and equally beneficial according to present data. as a palliative treatment, however, hemibody irradiation is a pragmatic option for relieving prostatic cancer pain.
cervicography for evaluating the "atypical" papanicolaou smear. a study was designed to compare various case-finding procedures in the evaluation of patients with an "atypical" papanicolaou smear. six hundred eighty-one consecutive patients were referred to the denver general hospital colposcopy clinic for smears showing evidence of atypical nuclear and/or cytoplasmic changes insufficient to justify a cytologic diagnosis of dysplasia. a full colposcopic evaluation with appropriate directed biopsies was carried out on all the patients. fourteen percent of the patients demonstrated cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin), and 29% had condyloma without cin. both cervicography and the colposcopist's impression, though not ideal, were superior to a repeat smear, human papillomavirus typing or both. cost effectiveness criteria and ease of training appear to justify the use of cervicography in the evaluation and triage of patients with atypical papanicolaou smears.
human coronary transplantation-associated arteriosclerosis. evidence for a chronic immune reaction to activated graft endothelial cells. occlusive disease of coronary arteries of engrafted hearts is the major obstacle to long-term survival of human cardiac allografts. the pathogenesis of this process remains uncertain. the identity and localization of cells found in transplantation-associated arteriosclerosis lesions from human cardiac allografts were evaluated, and their expression of class ii major histocompatibility complex (human leukocyte antigen-dr [hla-dr]), surface molecules required for recognition of foreign cells by cd4+ t lymphocytes, was noted. expanded intimas of transplanted coronary arteries contain t lymphocytes (both cd4+ and cd8+ in approximately equal number) and hla-dr+ macrophages, both localized primarily in a ring immediately below the luminal endothelium, a distribution strikingly different from that in typical atherosclerosis. coronary arterial endothelium from six of six transplanted hearts studied bore high levels of hla-dr. normal human arteries or usual atherosclerotic lesions have few if any hla-dr+ endothelial cells. the significance of these findings was tested by evaluating the ability of hla-dr+ arterial cells to interact with allogeneic t cells in vitro. endothelial cells (but not smooth muscle cells) cultured from human arteries stimulated foreign cd4+ t cells to proliferate and augmented their secretion of interleukin-2. these findings suggest that ongoing stimulation of recipient t lymphocytes by hla-dr+ endothelium of donor coronary arteries contributes to a sustained regional immune response. consequent local release of cytokines may regulate smooth muscle cell proliferation and matrix accumulation within the coronary arteries of allografted hearts.
preoperative cell-mediated immune function and the prognosis of patients with gastric carcinoma. the cell-mediated immune function of 83 patients with gastric carcinoma was assessed preoperatively and the results were compared to that of 52 patients with benign lesions. the data were subjected to an analysis in order to evaluate their prognostic significance. the abilities to induce allogeneic cytotoxicity and to produce interleukin 2 (il2) in patients with stage iv carcinoma were significantly depressed, as compared to those in patients with benign lesions, whereas natural killer (nk) cell activity was not significantly impaired. there was no significant correlation among these immune functions. when the patients were stratified into two groups, those who had high (greater than the mean value in patients with benign lesions) and low (less than the same value) values of these immune reactivities, the survival of patients with high nk activity (greater than or equal to 43%) was significantly better, as compared to that of patients with low cytotoxicity (less than 43%). however, there was no correlation between the survival and allogeneic cytotoxicity in these patients. the high ability to produce il2 (greater than or equal to 1.3 u/ml) correlated with the better survival in the patients, but not in the group of patients who underwent curative resection.
ability of the c-mos product to associate with and phosphorylate tubulin. the mos proto-oncogene product, pp39mos, is a protein kinase and has been equated with cytostatic factor (csf), an activity in unfertilized eggs that is thought to be responsible for the arrest of meiosis at metaphase ii. the biochemical properties and potential substrates of pp39mos were examined in unfertilized eggs and in transformed cells in order to study how the protein functions both as csf and in transformation. the pp39mos protein associated with polymers under conditions that favor tubulin oligomerization and was present in an approximately 500-kilodalton "core" complex under conditions that favor depolymerization. beta-tubulin was preferentially coprecipitated in pp39mos immunoprecipitates and was the major phosphorylated product in a pp39mos-dependent immune complex kinase assay. immunofluorescence analysis of nih 3t3 cells transformed with xenopus c-mos showed that pp39mos colocalizes with tubulin in the spindle during metaphase and in the midbody and asters during telophase. disruption of microtubules with nocodazole affected tubulin and pp39mos organization in the same way. it therefore appears that pp39mos is a tubulin-associated protein kinase and may thus participate in the modification of microtubules and contribute to the formation of the spindle. this activity expressed during interphase in somatic cells may be responsible for the transforming activity of pp39mos.
carnitine palmitoyltransferase in cardiac ischemia. a potential site for altered fatty acid metabolism. the sensitivity of carnitine palmitoyl coenzyme a (coa) transferase i to inhibition of its activity by malonyl-coa is progressively reduced in mitochondria isolated from ischemic cardiac cells as blood flow decreases to 30% or less of the preocclusion flow. the activity of carnitine palmitoyl-coa transferase i in mitochondria isolated from nonischemic cardiac cells demonstrates incomplete inhibition, even at high concentrations of malonyl-coa. kinetic analyses of these data gave results most consistent with the expression of two overt enzyme activities: one activity that is sensitive to inhibition by malonyl-coa and one activity that demonstrates little or no sensitivity to such inhibition. the decrease in malonyl-coa-sensitive activity associated with ischemia results from a 13% decrease in the activity of the sensitive component and a corresponding 13% increase in the activity of the insensitive component. decreased sensitivity of ischemic carnitine palmitoyl-coa transferase i to inhibition by malonyl-coa, together with potential fluctuations in the content of malonyl-coa in tissue, would increase the synthesis of palmitoylcarnitine during ischemia and facilitate return to the use of fatty acid as a preferred metabolic fuel on reperfusion. this apparent conversion occurs concomitantly with a decrease in the free protein thiol content of the mitochondrial membranes isolated from ischemic cardiac cells. treatment of the mitochondria from ischemic cardiac cells with dithiothreitol in vitro partially reverses the loss in sensitivity to malonyl-coa, suggesting the possible role of thiol oxidation in the altered metabolism of ischemic mitochondria. western blot analysis of these mitochondria using an antibody against carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii purified from beef heart demonstrates a 68-kda protein, which under ischemic conditions apparently is decreased by 2 kda. these results are more indicative of a modification in protein folding of carnitine palmitoyltransferase than proteolytic changes during ischemia.
predisposing factors in bladder calculi. review of 100 cases. one hundred patients, aged twenty to ninety-two years, underwent 111 procedures for removal of bladder calculi. most patients (88) had some type of bladder outlet obstruction. two types of stones were identified: those that had apparently formed in the upper tract and been trapped in the bladder (17 cases) and those that appeared to have formed in the bladder in the presence of various types of outlet obstruction. stone analysis revealed uric acid stones in 50 percent, calcium oxalate stones in 19 percent, and stones of mixed composition in 31 percent. five patients had metabolic abnormalities predisposing to stone formation; in 2 cases, these abnormalities were discovered during the evaluation for stone disease. treatment depended on stone characteristics, associated pathology, and the general health of the patient. a review of the literature with regard to the morbidity and mortality of combining treatment of vesical calculi and bladder outlet obstruction secondary to prostatic obstruction is included.
coccydynia. aetiology and treatment. a five-year prospective trial involving 120 patients was undertaken to investigate the aetiology and treatment of coccydynia. the cause lies in some localised musculoskeletal abnormality in the coccygeal region. lumbosacral disc prolapse is not a significant factor. the condition is genuine and distressing and we found no evidence of neurosis in our patients. physiotherapy was of little help in treatment but 60% of patients responded to local injections of corticosteroid and local anaesthesia. manipulation and injection was even more successful and cured about 85%. coccygectomy was required in almost 20% and had a success rate of over 90%.
germ cell tumor of testis in a patient with von hippel-lindau disease. germ cell testicular tumor is a previously undescribed entity in association with von hippel-lindau disease. this case exemplifies the variety of pathologic entities encountered in von hippel-lindau disease and stresses the importance of thorough evaluation of the patient, as well as careful follow-up, to ensure early detection of potentially malignant lesions.
natural history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the elderly. the prognosis of patients diagnosed as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at advanced age has not been well defined. this study details follow-up information obtained for 95 patients initially diagnosed as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at age greater than or equal to 65 years. seventy-five percent of patients were symptomatic, as defined by the presence of chest pain, dyspnea or syncope, and the mean ventricular septal thickness was 20 mm. the median duration of follow-up study was 4.2 years. the survival rate at 1 and 5 years was 95% and 76%, respectively, which was not significantly different from that an age- and gender-matched control group. of patients presenting with new york heart association functional class i or ii dyspnea, only 18% progressed to class iii or iv during the follow-up period. however, patients presenting with class iii dyspnea had a 1 year mortality rate of 36%, significantly higher than that of control subjects (p less than 0.003). of the echocardiographic variables, indexed left atrial size was most strongly associated with reduced survival (p less than 0.008). these results suggest that the prognosis of elderly patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is generally favorable. certain clinical and echocardiographic variables appear to be of use in identifying patients with a less favorable prognosis.
immunophenotypic analysis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia using routinely processed bone marrow specimens. monoclonal antibodies have been recently developed that react with antigens expressed on t and b lymphocytes in routinely processed, paraffin-embedded lymphoid tissues. in this study, we assessed bone marrow clot and/or core biopsy sections of 19 cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) using routinely decalcified, b5- or formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections and a panel of monoclonal antibodies, including ln1, ln2, l26, leu-22, uchl-1, and lca. each case had been previously phenotyped using freshly obtained aspirate material and a standard immunophenotypic protocol. our results demonstrate the utility of the ln2 antibody in differentiating between precursor b-cell (pre-b) and precursor t-cell all. the ln2 antibody stained 11 of 12 cases of pre-b all and did not react with any of the seven t-cell alls. the other antibodies tested were less helpful. the leu-22 antibody stained both pre-b and t-cell alls, while the results with uchl-1 revealed peculiar nuclear staining of pre-b and t-cell alls; this we attributed to processing artifact. the l26 antibody reacted with only one case of pre-b all (also cd20 antigen positive), while the ln1 antibody did not react with any pre-b alls. neither l26 nor ln1 stained any cases of t-cell all. the lca antibody stained in only four (21%) of 19 cases, two pre-b and two t-cell alls. the results also suggest that this panel of antibodies may be useful in differentiating all from mature b-cell and t-cell lymphomas involving the bone marrow.
immunohistochemical demonstration of acetaldehyde-modified epitopes in human liver after alcohol consumption. acetaldehyde, the toxic product of ethanol metabolism in the liver, covalently binds to a variety of proteins. recent studies indicate that such binding can stimulate the production of antibodies against the acetaldehyde adducts. we raised rabbit antibodies which recognized various protein-acetaldehyde conjugates but not the corresponding control proteins. such antibodies were used in immunohistochemical studies to find out whether acetaldehyde-generated epitopes can be detected from liver specimens of 13 human subjects with different degrees of alcohol consumption. while the specimens obtained from alcohol abusers (n = 4) and alcoholics (n = 3) exhibited marked positive staining for acetaldehyde adducts inside the hepatocytes in a granular uneven pattern, the control samples (n = 6) were almost devoid of immunoreactivity. in the alcohol abusers with an early stage of alcohol-induced liver damage, staining was detected exclusively around the central veins. the data indicate that intracellular acetaldehyde adducts occur in the centrilobular region of the liver of individuals consuming excessive amounts of alcohol. immunohistochemical detection of such adducts may prove to be of value in the early identification of alcohol abuse and in elucidating the mechanisms of alcohol-induced organ damage.
cholesterol screening in 5,719 self-referred elderly subjects. to assess the frequency of hypercholesterolemia as a potential major public health problem in the elderly, we studied 5,719 self-referred subjects greater than age 60 and 11,890 less than or equal to 60 years, whose nonfasting capillary blood cholesterol levels were measured during an 18-month screening in cincinnati area grocery stores. we followed national cholesterol education program guidelines for serum cholesterol (less than 200 mg/dl "desirable," 200-239 "borderline-high," and greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl "high"). of 4,011 61-70 year-olds, only 19% had capillary blood total cholesterol less than 200, 38% were 200-239, and 43% greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl. of 1,493 aged 71-80 years, only 20% had total cholesterol less than 200, 36% had levels 200-239, and 44% were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl. in 215 subjects, 81 and over, 29% had total cholesterol less than 200, 36% were 200-239, and 35% were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl. application of the non-age, non-race, non-sex specific national cholesterol education program guidelines to the elderly may necessitate followup and perhaps therapy in 71-81% of subjects, suggesting that the appropriate intervention approach be general population-oriented, rather than the individual detection, diagnosis, and treatment approach which presents a huge, expensive load for a relatively unprepared health care community.
cytokine regulation of il-1 beta gene expression in the human polymorphonuclear leukocyte. although recently polymorphonuclear leukocytes (pmn) have been identified as producers of il-1 beta in response to lps and granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor, little is known regarding the ability of other cytokines to induce the production of il-1 beta in the pmn. inasmuch as il-1 and tnf have been shown to be important priming agents, as well as agents that induce migration of pmn, we investigated their effect on il-1 beta gene expression in human peripheral blood pmn. in the present study, we demonstrate that human peripheral blood pmn produce il-1 beta in response to il-1 alpha, il-1 beta, and tnf-alpha. control (unstimulated) human pmn had virtually undetectable levels of il-1 beta mrna. either il-1 beta or tnf, induced pmn to transiently express il-1 beta mrna with peak expression at 1 h, returning to untreated levels by 2 h. a dose response indicated that as little as 0.05 ng/ml of il-1 beta or tnf resulted in il-1 beta induction, with maximal effects at 1 ng/ml of il-1 beta and 5 ng/ml of tnf. il-1 alpha or il-1 beta exhibited similar dose responses in il-1 beta mrna induction. inasmuch as cytokines have been shown to have synergistic effects in cell function studies, we induced pmn with a combination of maximally effective doses of tnf plus il-1 beta. they demonstrated a cooperative effect on il-1 beta gene expression, in that mrna levels were sustained for three hours. il-1 beta ag expression, as measured by elisa, paralleled il-1 beta mrna expression with cell associated peak levels at 2 to 4 h. il-1 beta ag levels in pmn lysates and supernatants correlated with il-1 beta mrna levels, i.e., tnf + il-1 greater than tnf greater than il-1. thus, these studies represent the first demonstration of il-1 and tnf induction of il-1 beta gene expression in the pmn. furthermore, the time course of induction is unique to the pmn, with peak induction of mrna at 1 h, which is consistent with the short lived nature of these cells in inflammatory lesions.
lipolytic factors associated with murine and human cancer cachexia. we have identified a lipolytic factor in extracts of a cachexia-inducing murine carcinoma (mac16) that shows characteristics of an acidic peptide and appears to be composed of three fractions of apparent molecular weights corresponding to 3 kd, 1.5 kd, and 0.7 kd, as determined by exclusion chromatography. material with identical chromatographic and molecular weight characteristics was also present in the serum of patients with clinical cancer cachexia but absent from normal serum, even under conditions of starvation. the mac16 lipid factor, when injected into animals bearing the non-cachexia-inducing tumor mac13, was capable of inducing weight loss without a significant reduction in food intake. similar lipolytic material, although in lower concentration, was also found in the mac13 tumor extracts. these findings suggest that cachexia may arise from the enhanced expression of a lipolytic factor associated with tumor cells.
symptoms of achalasia in young women mistaken as indicating primary anorexia nervosa. the case of a young women with dysphagia, regurgitation, and weight loss, who was diagnosed as having anorexia nervosa but in whom reevaluation showed that achalasia was causing the symptoms, is presented together with related observations. misinterpretation of esophageal symptoms may occur not only as a consequence of inadequate history taking and of being biased by a patient's emaciation, age, and gender, which leads to view certain aspects of the patient's history and behavior as suggesting a pathologic attitude towards eating and body weight, but also as a consequence of a misinterpretation of the symptoms as indicative of an eating disorder by the patients themselves. in some cases a disordered attitude toward eating and body weight may develop together or coexist with achalasia. the clinical evaluation of patients with symptoms suggestive of anorexia nervosa but also of bulimia nervosa should include the taking of a thorough history regarding swallowing and vomiting in order to recognize a possible esophageal motor disorder.
synergistic inhibition by verapamil and quinine of p-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance in a human myeloma cell line model. in an effort to develop a clinically useful approach to overcoming p-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance (mdr1), we evaluated combined chemosensitization with verapamil and quinine in a multidrug-resistant (mdr) human myeloma cell line model. in clonogenic assay, verapamil was used at concentrations from 0.1 to 1.0 micrograms/ml, bracketing the plasma levels achieved by oral administration and high-dose intravenous (iv) infusion, respectively. the dose of quinine was held constant at 1.0 micrograms/ml, a plasma concentration readily achieved by oral administration. at each dose level of verapamil tested, the combination with quinine proved more effective than either drug individually in reversing resistance to doxorubicin and vinblastine and synergistic chemosensitizing interaction was observed. verapamil at 0.1 microgram/ml combined with quinine was capable of restoring sensitivity to doxorubicin fully and reduced resistance to vinblastine as effectively as verapamil alone at 1.0 micrograms/ml. furthermore, the combination of 1.0 mumol verapamil with 10 mumols quinine increased accumulation and retention of anthracycline in the resistant cells to a greater extent than did either drug individually (p less than .001) and inhibited drug efflux as effectively as verapamil alone at 10 mumols. our findings suggest that combined chemosensitization with verapamil and quinine may prove useful for overcoming mdr1 in patients with drug-refractory b-cell neoplasms such as multiple myeloma or non-hodgkin's lymphomas.
mechanism of stroke in patients taking aspirin. during a 1-year period, we prospectively studied the mechanism and severity of stroke in 47 patients sustaining a cerebral infarction while taking aspirin. the mechanism of stroke was undetermined in 12 patients (26%). in the remaining 35 patients, we identified 39 potential mechanisms: large-artery atherosclerosis (19 patients, 40%), cardioembolism (15 patients, 32%), and small-vessel occlusive disease (5 patients, 11%). of 11 patients with carotid atherosclerosis and stroke, 9 (82%) had greater than 90% carotid stenosis or occlusion; of 12 patients with stroke of undetermined mechanism, 10 (83%) had previous stroke, of which 8 were also of undetermined mechanisms. disability after stroke was moderate or severe in 27 patients (57%). these data suggest that (1) stroke in patients taking aspirin has a variety of etiologies and frequently causes moderate or severe disability; (2) patients with carotid disease failing aspirin often have high-grade carotid stenosis or occlusion; (3) stroke of undetermined mechanism may recur more frequently than other stroke subtypes in patients taking aspirin.
partial and total penectomy for cancer. squamous carcinoma of the penis remains an uncommon tumor in the united states. in the properly selected patient, partial or total penectomy performed with an understanding of the salient surgical anatomy results in adequate local control of these cancers with excellent functional and cosmetic results.
circumflex artery ventricular fistula and pseudoaneurysm after mitral reoperation. prosthetic mitral valve reoperation complicated by atrioventricular groove pseudoaneurysm and circumflex ventricular fistula is presented. ligation of the circumflex artery during mitral valve replacement is implicated after review of a previous cardiac angiogram.
the transoral approach for the management of intradural lesions at the craniovertebral junction: review of 7 cases. the main difficulty in dealing with intradural lesions located ventrally in the region of the craniovertebral junction (cvj) is related to their relative inaccessibility. posterolateral approaches involve some manipulation of the brain stem and provide limited access because of the necessity of working between the cranial nerves. even then, the view of the ventral midline and across is limited. the transoral approach, which has been widely used for the management of extradural lesions in this area, is also useful for the treatment of intradural lesions. it provides an unimpeded although somewhat restricted, view of the ventral aspect of the cvj without the need for brain retraction. the cranial nerves and vertebral arteries are not interposed between the surgeon and the lesion. the risks of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and infection are greatly diminished by the use of fibrin adhesive and prolonged diversion of the cerebrospinal fluid. the use of this approach, together with its technical difficulties and results, in the management of seven purely intradural lesions located ventrally at the cvj, is discussed.
crohn's disease and pregnancy. seventy-eight pregnancies in 50 patients were reviewed to evaluate the effects of crohn's disease on the outcome of pregnancy and the influence of the pregnancy on the course of crohn's disease. overall, 21 pregnancies (27 percent) had abnormal outcomes including spontaneous abortions (9), infants small for gestational age (6), premature infants (5), and infants who developed respiratory distress (1). eight (50 percent) patients with active disease compared with 13 (21 percent) patients with inactive disease at conception had abnormal outcomes (p less than 0.05). during pregnancy 15 (55 percent) with active disease and 6 (12 percent) with inactive disease had an abnormal outcome (p less than 0.001). neither medical nor surgical treatment, independent of disease activity, appeared to affect the outcome adversely. eighteen of 73 (25 percent) patients with quiescent or mild disease relapsed, and seven of 16 patients with some disease activity improved (44 percent). of 34 patients on medication, nine relapsed (27 percent), and of 39 patients not on medication, nine relapsed (24 percent) (p = n.s.). these results suggest that the outcome of pregnancy is not adversely affected by crohn's disease. however, patients with active disease at conception and/or during the pregnancy have poorer outcomes independent of the use of medication or requirement of surgery. neither pregnancy nor medications taken affect the course of the disease.
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine: the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patients, including 35 patients with aids, who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine. lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients (74 per cent). oral candidiasis (50 per cent), hairy leukoplakia (14 per cent), periodontal disease (13 per cent), and oral kaposi's sarcoma (4 per cent) were the most common lesions. oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected. close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease.
multiple intracranial tumors of different cell types. multiple intracranial tumors of different cell types are rare. we report nine patients with multiple intracranial tumors, who did not have a history of trauma, irradiation, or phacomatosis. the clinical, radiological, and histopathological findings as well as indications for operations in patients with asymptomatic second tumors are discussed.
cytologic diagnosis of aspergillosis in cardiac transplantation. fine-needle aspiration of the lung is now widely utilized to diagnose pulmonary neoplasms, but often serologic techniques or open-lung biopsy is relied on for the diagnosis of infectious pulmonary processes. we report a series of four patients in whom the fine-needle aspiration technique was used to make the rapid cytologic diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis. culture confirmation was also obtained on the aspirated material. a discussion of the available techniques for the laboratory diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis is presented and the advantages of fine-needle aspiration cytology are stressed. our favorable results support expanded use of fine-needle aspiration cytology in the evaluation of lung nodules appearing in immunosuppressed populations.
immunohistochemical evaluation of seven monoclonal antibodies for differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma. a panel of seven monoclonal antibodies including anti-vimentin, anti-keratin markers ae1/ae3 and eab902, human milk fat globule (hmfg-2), b72.3, anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (cea), and anti-leu-m1 were used for an immunoperoxidase staining assay to determine their value in the differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma. anti-vimentin positively identified 86% of the mesotheliomas and none of the adenocarcinomas. ae1/ae3, eab902, and b72.3 reacted with a high percentage of both mesothelioma and adenocarcinoma specimens. with hmfg-2, both membrane and cytoplasmic staining was observed in 92% of the adenocarcinomas and in 14% of the mesotheliomas, whereas 26% of the mesotheliomas only exhibited membrane staining. eighty percent of the adenocarcinomas and 8% of the mesothelioma tissues stained with anti-leu-m1. anti-cea did not react with any of the 50 mesotheliomas tested but did react with 95% of the lung adenocarcinomas tested. from this study, it was concluded that anti-cea and anti-leu-m1 were the most effective of the seven tumor markers evaluated; and that 100% of the pleural mesothelioma tissues could be correctly differentiated from lung adenocarcinomas using a panel consisting of anti-vimentin, hmfg-2, anti-cea and anti-leu-m1 monoclonal antibodies.
the efficacy of azathioprine in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. we randomized 59 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis to receive azathioprine (aza) 3.0 mg/kg daily or placebo in a double-masked therapeutic trial. analysis of data for predetermined primary outcome measures demonstrated a significant difference favoring aza for observed mean exacerbation rate after 2 years of therapy and time to deterioration in both ambulation index and kurtzke expanded disability status scale score. this study confirms a modest therapeutic benefit for azathioprine previously reported by other investigators.
vigabatrin: rational treatment for chronic epilepsy. vigabatrin is a selective, irreversible suicide inhibitor of gaba transaminase and thus increases brain and csf gaba. in 33 adult patients with long standing refractory epilepsy on treatment with one or two standard anti-convulsant drugs, the addition of vigabatrin up to 3g daily for eight weeks was associated with a 48.2% reduction in seizure frequency. twenty patients who had exhibited a 50% or more reduction in frequency of one or more seizure types entered an eight week double-blind placebo controlled phase. patients on vigabatrin maintained a 54.7% reduction of seizure frequency, whereas those on placebo showed an 18.6% increase in seizure frequency, a highly significant difference between the two groups. in the open phase, seven patients were withdrawn due to unacceptable and reversible adverse events. the commonest side effects were drowsiness, depression and mood instability, and headaches. vigabatrin is a potentially valuable new treatment for chronic epilepsy, especially partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation.
use of auscultation to follow patients with mitral systolic clicks and murmurs. mitral systolic clicks and murmurs together with associated symptoms constitute a major reason for cardiologic referral. although echocardiography with doppler study enables characterization of the mitral valve apparatus and quantification of regurgitation, its use has resulted in an overemphasis of the technical diagnosis of mitral valve prolapse and an undervaluation of diagnosis based on physical examination. to determine the clinical significance of an auscultatory classification of mitral systolic clicks with or without precordial systolic murmurs, 1 consultant's medical records of 291 patients with these signs were reviewed. based on initial auscultatory findings, patients were divided into: (1) single or multiple apical systolic clicks with no murmur (n = 99); (2) single or multiple apical systolic clicks and a late systolic murmur (n = 129); and (3) single or multiple apical clicks and an apical pansystolic murmur or murmur beginning in the first half of systole (n = 63). the average duration of patient follow-up was 8 years (range 1 to 30). the prognosis was excellent for patients from all 3 classes. two cardiac-related deaths occurred: 1 each from classes 1 and 2. mitral valve surgery was performed in 3 class 2 patients (2%) and in 2 class 3 patients (3%). no patients developed endocarditis during follow-up. palpitations, with varying anxiety overlay, constituted a major indication for cardiologic referral in all 3 classes. auscultatory findings were valuable to the physician for explanation and relief of patient anxiety. for patient management, use of an auscultatory classification may be preferable to the technically generated term "mitral valve prolapse.".
soft tissue sarcoma with additional anaplastic components. a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 27 cases. this clinicopathologic study concerns 27 cases of "dedifferentiated" soft tissue sarcoma (dsts), including 14 liposarcomas, six leiomyosarcomas, five chondrosarcomas, and two rhabdomyosarcomas. in addition, the authors conducted an immunohistochemical survey of 23 cases and an electron microscopic examination of three. the findings were compared with observations of 32 cases of de novo malignant fibrous histiocytoma (mfh). all tumors contained additional distinct anaplastic portions indistinguishable from mfh under conventional light microscopy, ultrastructurally, and in cases of immunoreactivity for alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and alpha-1-antitrypsin and on lectin histochemical findings for ricinus communis agglutinin and concanavalin agglutinin. the desmin reactivity present in anaplastic portions of 14 dsts and in eight de novo mfh is taken to mean that myofibroblasts are present in these tumors. the anaplastic components of dsts are presumed to represent the proliferation of another clone of undifferentiated mesenchymal cells that fail to differentiate along any specific lineage other than fibroblast-like cells, histiocyte-like cells, and myofibroblasts. nineteen patients died of tumor and four are alive and well 1.6, 1.7, 2.1, and 5.2 years after the initial treatment, respectively.
primary ewing sarcoma: follow-up with ga-67 scintigraphy. while avid accumulation of gallium-67 citrate and technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate (mdp) occurs initially in most cases of primary ewing sarcoma, uptake after therapy is less well defined. thirty patients with ewing sarcoma who underwent ga-67 and bone scintigraphy at diagnosis, at completion of therapy, and at relapse from 1978 to 1988 were evaluated. all 30 patients showed less primary site ga-67 activity following therapy. twenty-three of 28 patients who underwent corresponding bone scintigraphy showed less uptake, but residual activity was usually more intense than with ga-67. avid reaccumulation of ga-67 occurred in four of five patients with primary site relapse, while patients who underwent bone scintigraphy showed less change. it was concluded that a greater decrease in ga-67 than in tc-99m mdp uptake often occurs in patients successfully treated for primary ewing sarcoma. information obtained at ga-67 scintigraphy is most likely to be helpful if results of bone scintigraphy remain abnormal or if occult relapse is suspected.
endemic cryptosporidium and giardia lamblia infections in a thai orphanage. we conducted a point prevalence survey for enteric protozoa in 205 institutionalized orphans 1-61 months of age in bangkok, thailand. cryptosporidium was identified in 17 children (8%), giardia lamblia in 42 (20%), and 3 children (1%) had both parasites. at the time of diagnosis, diarrheal symptoms were present in a minority of subjects: 36% of children with cryptosporidium alone, 10% with g. lamblia alone, and in 20% of those with neither parasite. although chronic nutritional status (height/age) was similar in all groups, acute nutritional status (weight/height) was lower only in children with cryptosporidium (z score = -1.39 +/- 0.13) compared with children with g. lamblia (mean z score +/- sem = -0.56 +/- 0.26) or neither parasite (z score = -0.78 +/- 0.13; p = 0.05). detectable levels of cryptosporidium-specific igg antibodies by elisa were identified in 15 of 16 thai children with cryptosporidium and in 17 of 19 thai children without cryptosporidium (mean od +/- sem = 1.27 +/- 0.18 vs. 1.06 +/- 0.13, respectively), but in only 1 of 18 sera from toddlers in day-care centers in denver, co (od = 0.128 +/- 0.03). although neither infection with cryptosporidium nor g. lamblia was consistently associated with acute diarrheal symptoms, cryptosporidium was more often associated with depressed acute nutritional status than g. lamblia. the high prevalence of specific antibodies to cryptosporidium in thai orphans suggests an association between high rates of exposure with asymptomatic excretion of the parasites.
multimodality cisplatin treatment in nonresectable alpha-fetoprotein-positive hepatoma. twenty-eight patients with alpha-fetoprotein-positive (afp+) nonresectable hepatoma have been enrolled in a new multimodality phase i, ii program. induction therapy consisted of 50 mg/m2 intravenous cisplatin followed by 2100 cgy irradiation to the tumor volume in seven fractions over 10 days. hepatic arterial infusion of 50 mg/m2 cisplatin (ia-cddp) was then administered at monthly intervals. twenty-one patients have completed induction and at least two cycles of ia-cddp. twelve-month cumulative survival was 52% for all 28 patients and 69% for the 21 patients completing induction and ia-cddp. median survival has not yet been reached. response rate (complete and partial) was 36% overall and 48% among the 21 patients who completed treatment. the improved survival of the present series of patients as well as the minimal hematologic toxicity suggests possible further integration of new modalities for therapy.
coronary artery bypass grafting in elderly patients. comparative results in a consecutive series of 469 patients older than 75 years. a consecutive series of 7104 patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting during an 18-year period (1971 to 1988) included 469 patients older than 75 years. results were analyzed to determine comparative risk factors for morbidity, early and late survival, and functional outcome. patients younger than 75 years (group i) and patients older than 75 years (group ii) were identical for ejection fraction and standard hemodynamic indices. mean number of grafts and crossclamp time were greater for group ii patients (p less than 0.01). mean age of group i was 58.6 years and group ii, 77.6 years (p less than 0.01). women composed 19.7% (1308/6635) of group i and 36.2% (170/469) of group ii patients (p less than 0.05). mammary grafts were placed in 57.7% (3830/6635) of group i and 41.6% (195/469) of group ii patients (p less than 0.05). overall perioperative mortality rate was 2.1% for group i and 6.8% for group ii (p less than 0.05). perioperative myocardial infarction rate was similar for the two groups. ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias, renal insufficiency, neurologic complications, prolonged ventilatory support, increased hospital cost, and prolonged hospitalization were significantly more prevalent (all p less than 0.05) in patients older than 75 years. five and 10 years postoperatively, there were no significant differences between groups i and ii with regard to event-free status including angina, myocardial infarction, and reoperation. the 5-year survival rate was 92% for group i and 80% for group ii (p less than 0.05), similar to that of age-matched control subjects. the significantly increased potential for complications and expense of coronary bypass in patients over 75 years of age mandates judicious patient selection and preoperative counseling. despite a significantly increased early mortality and an anticipated decreased long-term survival paralleling normal life table survival curves, good intermediate functional improvement can be realized in patients older than 75 years, comparable with that expected in a much younger age group.
ventricular arrhythmias after correction of ventricular septal defects: importance of surgical approach. to compare the prevalence of conduction disturbances and ventricular arrhythmias in cases of postoperative ventricular septal defect, 100 patients (50 with repair by right atriotomy, group 1; and 50 with repair by right ventriculotomy, group 2) underwent complete evaluation including an electrocardiogram (ecg) and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring. the two groups were comparable except for a shorter follow-up duration (7 +/- 3 versus 12.4 +/- 7 years) and a younger age at evaluation (12.4 +/- 5 versus 16.9 +/- 7 years) in group 1. complete right bundle branch block was less frequent in group 1 than in group 2 (20% versus 50%, p less than 0.05) but three of the four patients with complete atrioventricular (av) block detected on ambulatory monitoring were in group 1. six patients had significant supraventricular arrhythmias, all well tolerated. ambulatory monitoring revealed significant ventricular arrhythmias (modified lown grade 2 or higher) in 39 patients, with a lower prevalence in group 1 (30% versus 48%, p = 0.05). no correlation was found between prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias and right ventricular systolic pressure, cardiopulmonary bypass duration, presence of a synthetic patch, previous pulmonary artery banding, presence of complete right bundle branch block and cardiomegaly on chest x-ray film. prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias increased with follow-up duration, age at evaluation and age at surgery. these were always well tolerated and did not warrant treatment. thus, right atriotomy reduces the prevalence of right bundle branch block but does not prevent late av block. ventricular arrhythmias are frequent after surgical closure of ventricular septal defect whatever the surgical approach and their prevalence is not statistically different from that in postoperative tetralogy of fallot.
gallbladder dynamics in patients with irritable bowel syndrome and essential dyspepsia. to assess whether gallbladder motility is altered in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) or essential dyspepsia (ed), we studied gallbladder function in 25 healthy volunteers, 20 patients with ibs, and 22 with ed. by real time ultrasonography, we studied the following parameters: (a) fasting gallbladder volume, (b) maximum percent of gallbladder emptied, (c) time required for maximal contraction, (d) residual volume after maximal contraction, and (e) percent fasting volume at 2 h. all parameters, except fasting gallbladder volume, were measured after a high-fat meal. the fasting gallbladder volume, maximum percent of gallbladder emptied, time required for maximal contraction, residual volume after maximal contraction, and percent fasting volume at 2 h in controls and patients with ibs was 19.3 +/- 8.8 ml and 24.4 +/- 9.7 ml, 67.1 +/- 10.7% and 67.6 +/- 13.5%, 41 +/- 20.6 min and 49.7 +/- 25.3 min, 6.2 +/- 3.3 ml and 7.6 +/- 5.3 ml, and 38.1 +/- 12.2% and 40.7 +/- 14.5%, respectively. the differences between the two groups were statistically not significant. the corresponding values in patients with ed were 15.5 +/- 6.3 ml, 57.6 +/- 16.5%, 51.8 +/- 29.3 min, 6.1 +/- 3.2 ml, 44.1 +/- 17%, respectively. compared with controls there was no statistically significant difference in these parameters, except the maximum percent of gallbladder emptied, which was significantly less than that in controls (57.6 +/- 16.5% vs. 67.1 +/- 10.7%; p less than 0.05). therefore, we could not find that patients with ibs have any abnormality of gallbladder function; postprandially, patients with ed have submaximal contraction of the gallbladder.
heterogeneity in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy. a clinical and pet study. six patients with a slowly progressive aphasic disorder due to degenerative cortical disease are reported. the length of history varied from 18 months to 6 years. in 5 patients, there was a naming deficit, associated in 4 of these with some abnormalities in comprehension. one patient had a progressive history of reduced speech output, which was associated with an orofacial dyspraxia. all patients were studied neuropsychologically, and in addition regional cerebral metabolism was measured using position emission tomography. a localized left hemisphere deficit was found in all patients except 1, who had the longest history and the most profound clinical deficit, and who also had right hemisphere hypometabolism. the major brunt of the deficit was in the anterior portion of the left temporal lobe in all but 1 case, the patient with poor speech output who had a more severe left posterior frontal deficit. these findings suggest that in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy there is heterogeneity in the clinical presentation and anatomical site of the deficit, with possible implications for the underlying aetiology.
efficacy of thrombolysis in infrainguinal bypass grafts. the initial outcome of a consecutive series of 43 intra-arterial urokinase infusions for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts in 37 patients was analyzed. there was an 88% (38/43) technical success rate (complete clot lysis) and a 74% (32/43) clinical success rate. complications occurred in 10 patients (23%) and were related to bleeding in four patients (9%). patient age, graft age, location, material, and the duration of occlusion did not significantly influence the initial outcome, although there was a trend toward a higher bleeding complication rate among grafts less than or equal to 1 month of age at the time of thrombolysis. a second group of 43 infrainguinal grafts successfully recanalized using regional infusions of thrombolytic agents were followed for long-term patency. this group included 32 grafts successfully treated with urokinase and 11 grafts recanalized with streptokinase. by life-table analysis there was a 55.6% 1-year patency, which fell to 42.4% at 4 years. vein grafts had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than prosthetic grafts (69.3% versus 28.6% at 30 months). grafts with flow-limiting lesions identified and corrected by angioplasty or surgery also had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than those without such lesions (79.0% versus 9.8% at 2 years). based on the results of our study compared with a survey of long-term results following secondary surgical procedures for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts, thrombolysis can be recommended in several circumstances. thrombolysis is indicated for thrombosed vein grafts or when thrombus is present in distal runoff vessels. thrombosed prosthetic grafts should be replaced by autogenous vein grafts whenever possible.
assessing the severity of dementia. patient and caregiver. in dementia there is cognitive impairment, disability in daily life, and sometimes behavioral disturbance. these changes are a burden for the caregivers of patients with dementia. few studies are available that examine all these aspects and their interrelationships in a single patient group. in our study we selected detailed methods for assessment of all these aspects. interrelationships were studied in 30 mild to moderately impaired patients with dementia and their caregivers. although the relations of cognitive deterioration to disability in daily life and of burden experienced by the caregiver to patient's condition were stronger than often reported, it was impossible to deduce the overall severity of dementia from one single aspect. thus, for effective management of patients and caregivers, for evaluation of individual treatment or of clinical trials, attention should be paid to all the different aspects of patients' condition and caregivers' burden. outcome measurements will then be more valid.
symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients: the role of fluid cytology. clinical and cytologic findings in 21 breast cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion are presented. the etiology of the pericardial effusion was definitely malignant, by cytology/histology in 13 patients (62%), and suspected malignant by cytology in 2 patients (9%). one patient (5%) with definitely nonmalignant pericardial effusion by cytology was found to be histologically positive at autopsy. in 5 patients (24%) there was no histological/cytological evidence of malignancy; radiation pericarditis could be the etiology in 4 of these 5 patients. the median time from the diagnosis of breast cancer to the development of symptomatic pericardial effusion was 60 months (range: 1-219 months). ten patients developed cardiac tamponade; they were treated by either pericardiocentesis or pericardiectomy. the mean survival of patients with negative cytology/histology was 12 months; patients with suspicious cytology had a mean survival of 9 months; patients with malignant effusion, treated by pericardiectomy, had a mean survival of 22.3 months, while patients with malignant pericardial effusion, who were not subjected to surgery, had a mean survival of 4.7 months, only. it is concluded that the etiology of symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients is not always malignant, which emphasizes the role of fluid cytology in establishing definite diagnosis. the survival probability is a function of the extent of extracardiac disease; among patients with malignant pericardial effusion those selected for pericardiectomy have a longer than average survival.
ataxia-telangiectasia: an interdisciplinary approach to pathogenesis. ataxia-telangiectasia is a syndrome with many facets, involving a progressive cerebellar ataxia, immunodeficiency, cancer susceptibility, radiosensitivity, defects in dna repair/processing, chromosomal breakage and rearrangements, elevated serum alphafetoprotein, and premature aging. ataxia-telangiectasia is an autosomal recessive disorder, rare in outbred populations; carriers of the ataxia-telangiectasia gene may be as common as 1 in 60 and have subclinical radiosensitivity and cancer susceptibility. one estimate suggests that 8.8% of patients with breast cancer could be carriers of ataxia-telangiectasia. these carriers may be responsible for underestimating normal tolerance doses for radiation therapy by 15% to 20%; thus by preselecting and excluding carriers of ataxia-telangiectasia from cohorts of patients with cancer, conventional radiation doses might be increased so as to improve greatly the efficacy of radiotherapy. the genes for the 3 most common ataxia-telangiectasia complementation groups, which include 97% of tested families, have recently been localized to the long arm of chromosome 11.
anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. a retrospective review of 94 patients who had undergone anterior cervical discectomy and fusion was performed to analyze the result in patients who had a diagnosis of posterolateral spondylosis, disc herniation, or both. although in 23 of 94 patients additional adjacent asymptomatic levels of spondylosis were noted, only the symptomatic levels were addressed in the 94 cases. postoperatively two cases of dysphagia were noted, as well as a 4% pseudarthrosis rate. there was an 88% good or excellent result when no additional spondylosis was present, but only a 60% good or excellent result when just the symptomatic levels were addressed, leaving unoperated adjacent levels of spondylosis.
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo open heart surgery. to determine whether heparin-dependent antiplatelet antibodies (haab) have an effect on morbidity and/or mortality rates, we reviewed the cases of 3438 patients who underwent open heart surgery from 1981 to 1989. forty-six patients (1.3%) had haab. the patients were divided into two groups: those patients who were known to have haab before surgery (group i) and those patients who were diagnosed with haab after surgery (group ii). group i patients (n = 5) were pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before reexposure to heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass and were maintained with strict abstinence from heparin afterward. their lowest observed platelet counts ranged from 42,000/mm3 to 89,000/mm3 (median, 63,00/mm3). thromboembolic complications did not occur, and all patients survived. group ii patients (n = 41) who were diagnosed to have haab after surgery had not been pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before surgery. lowest platelet counts ranged from 11,000/mm3 to 128,000/mm3 (median, 42,000/mm3). bleeding complications occurred in 21 patients (51%), and thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients (32%). hospital mortality in group ii patients was 37%. late recognition of haab was associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality rates. thromboembolic complications of haab, which had been diagnosed before surgery, were eliminated, and bleeding was reduced by pretreatment with platelet-inhibiting drugs and strict abstinence from heparin after surgery.
strain differences in baroreflex inhibition by centrally infused enalapril in old rats. to determine whether inhibition of the brain renin-angiotensin system would affect baroreflexes similarly in old rats of different strains, we compared 24-month-old male fischer 344 and sprague-dawley rats. baroreflex sensitivity was tested while the rats were awake by recording reflex heart rate responses elicited as blood pressure was elevated with phenylephrine or lowered with sodium nitroprusside. sprague-dawley rats had higher blood pressures and lower heart rates initially. chronic infusion of enalapril, a converting enzyme inhibitor, into a lateral cerebral ventricle (icv) for two weeks lowered blood pressure in sprague-dawley but not in fischer 344 rats. furthermore, reflex bradycardia was unaffected in either rat strain, but reflex tachycardia was selectively suppressed in fischer 344 rats. thus, although time controls were not done to rule out spontaneous changes during the 14-day infusion period, these results suggest that central cardiovascular regulation does not change similarly with age in these two rat strains. as removal of the brain renin-angiotensin system lowered blood pressure in one strain and inhibited reflex tachycardia in the other, the divergence could mean that the brain renin-angiotensin system acts differently to keep blood pressure elevated in sprague-dawley rats and modulate reflex tachycardia in fischer 344 rats.
primary malignant melanoma of the lower respiratory tract. report of a case and literature review. the authors report a case of primary bronchial malignant melanoma, occurring in a 34-year-old woman presenting with persistent cough. at bronchoscopic examination, a polypoid mass was found to occlude the left mainstem bronchus. biopsies showed a malignant epithelioid tumor resembling an atypical carcinoid. histochemistry, electron microscopic study, and immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis of melanoma. physical examination and additional clinical history to exclude other possible primary sites were negative. the patient underwent thoracotomy with left pneumonectomy. nineteen months after resection she was found to have a histologically similar tumor involving her left adrenal gland. review of the literature shows that melanoma of the lower respiratory tract has been reported only in adults and has a tendency to present as a central polypoid growth that may be responsive to surgical resection.
multiple myeloma and acute megakaryoblast leukemia in spent phase polycythemia vera. the spontaneous and simultaneous occurrence of multiple myeloma and megakaryoblast leukemia with myelodysplastic features in a case of spent phase polycythemia vera is well documented. in support of the morphologic characteristics of the bone marrow, immunocytologic studies show proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells and megakaryoblasts. the cytogenetic findings of 20q- and unbalanced t(1;7) are consistent with myelodysplastic and leukemic transformation of the bone marrow. these transformations expand observations on variable and spontaneous lineage commitments as the consequence of alterations of the hematopoietic stem cell clone. these data are in support of the changing insights in hematopoiesis as a process of ordered commitment of the stem cell with sequential lineage potentials.
evaluation of serum ca 125 as a tumor marker in non-small cell lung cancer. serum ca 125 levels were evaluated in 130 healthy subjects and 133 patients with untreated pulmonary lesions. these were 33 patients with benign pulmonary conditions and 100 with lung cancer. the mean concentration of ca 125 was higher in patients with lung cancer (37 +/- 81 u/ml) than in those with nonmalignant disease (4.2 +/- 5.7 u/ml) (p less than 0.01). in the healthy control group ca 125 concentrations were significantly lower (0.63 +/- 1.5 u/ml) (p less than 0.001). in patients with lung cancer the concentration of this tumor marker was related to the tumor-node-metastasis (tnm) stage. at a cut-off value of 15 u/ml, ca 125 had a sensitivity of 44%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100%, and negative predictive value of 65% with respect to healthy subjects; in patients with benign pulmonary conditions, these values were 44%, 94%, 94%, and 31%, respectively. at this cut-off value, a correlation between the respectability prognosis and the likelihood of survival 24 months posttreatment was observed. these findings suggest that ca 125 can be used as an adjunctive test in the management of patients with lung cancer patients.
normal and leukemic hematopoietic cells manifest differential sensitivity to inhibitory effects of c-myb antisense oligodeoxynucleotides: an in vitro study relevant to bone marrow purging. the c-myb protooncogene is preferentially expressed in hematopoietic cells, and its encoded protein, myb, is required for hematopoietic cell proliferation. to analyze the relative myb dependence of normal and leukemic human hematopoietic progenitor cells, normal bone marrow cells, several types of leukemic blast cells, and 1:1 mixtures of normal and leukemic cells were cultured in the presence of c-myb sense or antisense oligodeoxynucleotides; cell viability and cloning efficiency were then assessed. c-myb sense oligomers had negligible effects on normal and leukemic cells. in contrast, c-myb antisense oligomers strongly inhibited or completely abolished clonogenic growth of a t-cell leukemia line, 78% (18 of 23) of primary acute myelogenous leukemia cases examined, and 4 of 5 primary chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) cases in blast crisis. in three of the latter patients, polymerase chain reaction analysis of a 1:1 mixture of c-myb antisense-treated normal and cml cells revealed a complete absence of bcr-abl expression, suggesting that the cml clonogenic units had been completely eliminated from the cultures. at antisense doses that inhibited leukemic cell growth, normal hematopoietic progenitor cells survived. thus, normal and leukemic hematopoietic cells show differential sensitivity to the toxic effects of c-myb antisense dna. perturbation of c-myb function with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides might eventually form the basis for a molecular approach to leukemia therapy, perhaps most immediately as ex vivo bone marrow purging agents.
acute and chronic stress in duodenal ulcer disease. acute and chronic life event stressors were objectively assessed in a sample of duodenal ulcer patients and community controls. stress was assessed on two dimensions, "personal threat" and "goal frustration." chronic stressors (those of 6 months' duration or more) involving high goal frustration were significantly and independently associated with the onset and relapse of duodenal ulcers, as were acute events of high immediate but transient personal threat.
fingernail deformities secondary to ganglions of the distal interphalangeal joint (mucous cysts). twenty-six nail deformities secondary to ganglions of the distal interphalangeal joint were retrospectively reviewed to assess the important aspects of their management. the patients' ages ranged from 41 to 79 years. the long and index fingers were most commonly involved. a depression or groove was present in 23 of 26 digits reviewed. two had gross disruption of the nail. fifty-eight percent of the cysts had spontaneously drained or had been drained by the patient or a physician preoperatively. degenerative arthritic changes were seen in 87 percent of those with x-rays or a radiology report available. most underwent surgical removal of the cyst and debridement of associated osteophytes of the distal interphalangeal joint. the cyst was located above the germinal matrix in all but two digits. osteophytes were found in all 20 digits in which the joint was explored. no recurrences were seen in those available for postoperative follow-up (22 of 25). normal nail growth was found in 14 of 22, although follow-up was short in one. all eight postoperative nail deformities were quite mild and of little concern to the patient. there was no correlation between preoperative cyst drainage and aesthetic postoperative nail growth. nail removal at the time of surgery appeared to be unnecessary unless the nail was grossly disrupted.
can the status of tubal pregnancy be predicted with transvaginal sonography? a prospective comparison of sonographic, surgical, and serum hcg findings results of transvaginal sonography were compared prospectively with surgical findings and levels of serum human chorionic gonadotropin in 120 women with a proved tubal pregnancy. the most common sonographic finding was a saclike adnexal ring, which was seen in 74 of the women (61.7%). this finding was strongly associated with functioning trophoblasts and with an intact fallopian tube. in 39 of the women (32.5%) an adnexal mass with a complex texture was found. of these 39 women, 20 had a tubal hematoma and six had a ruptured fallopian tube. the size of the tubal mass created by ectopic pregnancy was predicted precisely (r = .91, p less than .001), and transvaginal sonography enabled detection of hemoperitoneum with a sensitivity of 91% (68 of 75 women). this study suggests that the status of a tubal pregnancy can be predicted reliably on the basis of transvaginal sonographic findings.
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease (the framingham study). the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta, as detected on chest x-rays, and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort (n = 5,209). the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age, with only a trivial male predominance. its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65, even after other risk factors were taken into account. similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease, stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women. in middle-aged men these risks were less marked. the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age. risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years. these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process. the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac, cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation.
vertical partial laryngectomy on demand. the author proposes the term 'vertical partial laryngectomy on demand' for all modifications of vertical laryngectomies (frontal, frontolateral, vertical and hemilaryngectomy). this term includes two conditions: the first is complete oncological removal of the tumour (proven by histological examination and with the use of magnification or the operating microscope during the operation); secondly, reconstruction of the laryngeal defect by various procedures. the author uses the sternohyoid fascia in vertical and frontolateral partial laryngectomies. from 120 operated cases, a five-year survival rate of 81 per cent was achieved. the fascia showed resistance to post-operative complications and irradiation.
stools containing altered blood-plasma urea: creatinine ratio as a simple test for the source of bleeding. the plasma urea:creatinine ratio (u:c ratio) is known to be elevated in cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. almost all patients with haematemesis have upper gastrointestinal (or generalized) bleeding so that in this study we characterized the diagnostic power of the u:c ratio in patients with stools containing altered blood without haematemesis in the hope that this simple laboratory test (used in conjunction, perhaps, with clinical data) might reduce the number of patients subjected to an unrewarding gastroscopy or colonoscopy. of 76 cases seen in a provincial and a metropolitan hospital, 42 and 34 patients had upper and lower gastrointestinal bleeding, respectively. fifty-four per cent of those with upper gastrointestinal bleeding and none of those with lower gastrointestinal bleeding had u:c ratios above 110 on admission. however, a discriminating level of 90 is considered to be more suitable, judged by the quadratic uncertainty score. at this level the odds for upper gastrointestinal bleeding were 15:1.
clinical and angiographic determinants of primary coronary angioplasty success. m-heart investigators. clinical and anatomic determinants of the initial success of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were prospectively evaluated in 826 patients enrolled in the multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial (m-heart). the 639 men and 187 women ranged in age from 31 to 85 years. successful angioplasty (residual stenosis less than 50% and no major complications) was achieved in 886 (88.6%) of 1,000 lesions. success rates were uniform among the eight individual centers. outcome was not influenced by gender, age or other clinical features, including severity and duration of angina, prior myocardial infarction, rest pain, transient st segment elevation, history of smoking or diabetes. in contrast, procedural outcome was significantly associated with lesion-specific angiographic factors. stenoses 60% to 74%, 75% to 89%, 90% to 99% and 100% were associated with success rates of 96%, 90%, 84% and 69%, respectively (p less than 0.001). angioplasty was less successful in calcified than in noncalcified lesions (82% versus 90%, p less than 0.01), in thrombotic than in nonthrombotic lesions (82% versus 90%, p less than 0.05) and in lesions in the right coronary artery than in other vessels (84% versus 90%, p less than 0.01). outcome was not related to other anatomic variables, including lesion location (proximal versus distal), vessel size, eccentricity, stenosis length or translesional gradient. by multivariate logistic regression, preangioplasty percent stenosis, right coronary artery location and lesion calcification were demonstrated to be significant independent predictors of angioplasty success. alternative clinical and angiographic variables did not contribute to this regression model.
ewing's sarcoma. prognostic factors, disease control, and the reemerging role of surgical treatment. advances in the treatment of ewing's sarcoma have been dramatic. present treatment protocols control local disease by radiotherapy, surgery, or both; systemic spread is limited by aggressive multiagent chemotherapy. in patients with localized osseous ewing's sarcoma, five-year survival rates now range from 54% to an estimated 74%. with late relapse not uncommon, control of the primary lesion is critical to long-term survival. several studies now show improved local control and possibly improved survival of patients with surgical treatment of primary osseous ewing's sarcoma.
emergency laparoscopy. unnecessary abdominal explorations in severely injured patients can be reduced by employing emergent or urgent laparoscopy in blunt abdominal trauma and the obscured, acute abdominal cases. in 150 blunt abdominal trauma cases, a mini-laparoscopy was used in the emergency room or the intensive care unit without major complications. in 56%, the findings were negative. in 19%, the laparoscopic findings were corroborated by surgery. in 25%, a minimal to moderate hemoperitoneum was found and the laparoscopic impression dictated close observation. unnecessary exploration was avoided except in one case. in the elderly high-risk patient with a poor history, abdominal examination can be noninformative. laparoscopy can detect acute appendicitis or organ perforation. in the young female, appendicitis can be differentiated from pelvic inflammatory disease. laparoscopy is more accurate and gives a larger latitude for decision-making than lavage. it can also be useful in the obscured problematic abdominal case.
phenytoin administration by constant intravenous infusion: selective rates of administration. study objectives: to determine the adequacy of seizure control and the adverse effects of administering an iv loading dose of phenytoin by constant infusion pump. design: a prospective study of patients presenting with acute onset of seizures. patients were divided into two groups. group 1 comprised all patients 50 years of age or younger without a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd). group 2 comprised all patients older than 50 years or with a history of ascvd. setting: a rural community hospital emergency department. type of participants: forty-two adult patients. interventions: both groups received an iv loading dose of phenytoin at 15 mg/kg. infusion rates were 50 mg/min and 25 mg/min for groups 1 and 2, respectively. cardiac rhythm and vital signs were monitored throughout and after infusion. measures and main results: group 2 demonstrated significantly more cardiovascular side effects (hypotension and bradycardia) than did group 1 (fisher's exact test, p less than .05). conclusion: phenytoin provided adequate seizure control in both groups. for individuals with ascvd, iv phenytoin administration rates should not exceed 25 mg/min. for individuals without ascvd, phenytoin administration at 50 mg/min appears safe and without significant cardiovascular side effects.
pharyngoesophageal perforation after blunt neck trauma. pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma is an uncommon injury that can cause serious morbidity and mortality if not recognized and treated. pharyngeal perforation secondary to blunt trauma sustained while boxing is reported. review of the world literature found 10 cases of pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma. analysis of these cases indicates that perforations less than 2 cm and limited to the pharynx may be treated medically with close observation. large perforations and those perforations that extend to the esophageal inlet or involve the esophagus exclusively are best treated surgically.
deletion of alu sequences in the fifth c-sis intron in individuals with meningiomas. an abnormality in the c-sis protooncogene was identified in leukocyte dna from members of a family predisposed to the development of meningioma, and was found to be associated with the development of the tumor in those individuals. molecular analysis of this abnormality demonstrated a deletion within the fifth intron of the c-sis gene. the normal c-sis gene has an alu sequence in this region which includes two perfect 130 nucleotide repeated sequences separated by 5 bp. the deleted c-sis allele is missing precisely one copy of the 130 bp repeat and the intervening 5 bp. an identical deletion was also found in dna from 1 of 13 sporadic meningiomas.
fulminant hepatitis after lisinopril administration. a case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported. jaundice, fever, myalgia, and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment. continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade iii encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels. this case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure.
prognostic implications of tumor diameter in carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. two hundred twenty patients with a carcinoma in the head of the pancreas were divided into three tumor diameter groups: group 1, 0.5 to 4.4 cm (n = 72); group 2, 4.5 to 6.0 cm (n = 77); and group 3, 6.1 to 15.0 cm (n = 71). for these tumor diameter groups a six-fold eliminatory curability analysis was performed. of the patients with liver metastases in group 1 the last patient had died at 10 months and in groups 2 and 3 no patients were alive at 18 months after the start of complaints. patients with extrahepatic metastases did not survive 12 months in group 1, 16 months in group 2, and 25 months in group 3. the 6% actuarial survival rate for inoperable patients was reached in group 1 after 17 months, in group 2 after 36 months, and in group 3 after 27 months after the start of complaints. for groups 1 through 3 in curable, but not curatively operated patients, the respective 0% actuarial survival rate was reached at 24 months, 23 months, and 14 months. the 0% actuarial survival rate in patients with irresectable vessel invasion was reached in group 1 at 33 months, in group 2 at 23 months, and in group 3 at 25 months. the 0% actuarial survival rate in patients with an irresectable tumor was reached at 33 months, 31 months, and 27 months after the start of complaints in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. the 0% actuarial survival rate in curatively operated patients was reached in group 3 after 26 months and in group 2 after 29 months. in group 1 25% of the patients were alive at 36 months after the start of complaints. small tumors were associated with the greatest chance of curative operation and on average had the longest survival. however, small tumors with liver or other metastases carried a worse prognosis than large tumors with liver or other metastases. if tumors were found not to be resectable at the time of operation, the size of the tumor did not appear to affect survival.
carpal tunnel syndrome: correlations between pressure measurement and intraoperative electrophysiological nerve study. in 19 carpal tunnel syndrome (cts) patients and 4 control subjects a catheter was introduced into the carpal tunnel and slowly retracted in 5 mm steps. pressure was measured with the continuous infusion technique. in the same group of patients and controls, median nerve antidromic sensory action potential (asap) was detected intraoperatively stimulating proximally (s1), in the center (s2), and distally (s3) to the carpal tunnel and recording from the third finger (r). sensory conduction velocity (scv) and asap amplitude were considered in s1-s2, s2-s3 and s3-r segments. the intracarpal tunnel pressure was significantly higher in cts patients than in controls, with the highest values located between 25 and 35 mm distal to the proximal border of the flexor retinaculum. scv and asap amplitude were also decreased most often in the distal part (s2-s3) of the carpal tunnel.
cerebrospinal fluid flow dynamics in children with external ventricular drains. fifty-five children had 64 external ventricular drains (evds) placed predominantly (95%) for cerebrospinal fluid (csf) shunt infections. in 9 children, a computer monitoring system measured the csf output each second continuously for up to 24 hours. the monitoring was repeated daily for up to 9 days. the state of arousal of the patients was recorded simultaneously. in all children, daily evd outputs were related to age, sex, weight, method of establishing the evd, height of the drip chamber, time since insertion, and type of infecting organism. computer monitoring revealed wide fluctuations in flow rate, with peak rates frequently greater than 20 ml/h and periods of flow arrest. these changes were usually associated with increased arousal, but also occurred with sleep. the mean evd flow rate for all children was 6.3 ml/h. evd output increased with age and weight. evd output decreased with gram-negative or multiple-organism infections and with elevation of the drip chamber. resolution of the infection, sex of the patient, and method of establishing the evd had no effect on output. these results predict that csf production increases with brain growth in humans: that csf production is depressed by gram-negative and multiple-organism infections: that implanted csf shunts with standard valves flow at equivalent rates to an evd in the supine position; and that the csf drainage requirements in this group are approximately equal to their evd outputs.
synergism of herpes simplex virus and tobacco-specific n'-nitrosamines in cell transformation. previous studies indicate that herpes simplex virus (hsv) enhances the carcinogenic activity of smokeless tobacco and tobacco-related chemical carcinogens in animals. since tobacco-specific n'-nitrosamines (tsnas) such as n'-nitrosonornicotine (nnn) and 4-(n-methyl-n'-nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (nnk) are major chemical carcinogens of smokeless tobacco and are known to be responsible for the development of oral cancers in smokeless tobacco users, the combined effects of tsnas and hsv in cell transformation were investigated. exposure of cells to nnn or nnk followed by virus infection resulted in a significant enhancement of transformation frequency when compared with that observed with chemical carcinogens or virus alone. this study suggests that tsnas and hsv can interact together and show synergism in cell transformation.
olfactory neuroblastoma: clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical characterization of four representative cases. olfactory neuroblastomas are rare tumors whose clinical prognosis is not predictable by assessment of initial stage or grade. the pathologic diagnosis is often difficult because of the wide range of the patient's age and histologies. in this report, we document that the diagnosis of olfactory neuroblastoma can be clarified by immunohistochemical demonstration of a unique antigenic profile that can be obtained in routinely processed biopsies. we describe four cases of olfactory neuroblastoma diagnosed and treated from 1979 to 1989, each confirmed by immunohistology. one of our patients was misdiagnosed twice at an outside institution, first as having nasopharyngeal carcinoma and then as having small-cell, undifferentiated "oat cell" carcinoma. despite accurate tumor diagnosis and appropriate therapy, we found that there was no apparent correlation of clinical outcome with kadish clinical stage or histologic grade of tumor.
cemented total knee arthroplasty for gonarthrosis in patients 55 years old or younger. the results of 68 cemented total knee arthroplasties (tkas) in 50 patients with gonarthrosis who were 55 years old or younger at the time of surgery were reviewed. these patients were operated on between 1979 and 1987 and were followed for an average of 6.2 years. the average age of the patients was 50 years. patients were evaluated by the hospital for special surgery knee score. the average preoperative score was 53, and the average follow-up score was 90. overall, 55 tkas were rated as excellent and 13 as good. using the knee rating score advocated by the knee society, the average postoperative score was 92 for pain and 84 for function. there were four successful reoperations for patellar component loosening, all in metal-backed patellae. the femoral and tibial components in these patients were intact, and at the follow-up period, two knees were rated as excellent and two as good. detailed roentgenographic evaluation demonstrated that 20% of tibial components had radiolucencies in at least one zone on the anteroposterior roentgenogram and in 11% on the lateral roentgenogram. femoral radiolucencies occurred in only 2% of knees. patellar radiolucencies in one or more zones occurred in 20% of knees that had not had patellar revision. no complete or progressive radiolucencies at the bone-cement interface were noted for any component, and no components were considered to be roentgenographically loose. cemented tkas can achieve excellent long-term results in patients younger than 55 years old with gonarthrosis of the knee. these results compare with those obtained in published reports on older age groups.
triiodothyronine in the recovery of stunned myocardium in dogs two groups of dogs were subjected to a 15-minute period of regional myocardial ischemia by snaring the left anterior descending coronary artery proximal to its first diagonal branch. after release of the snare, the dogs were given either placebo (group 1: n = 7) or triiodothyronine (t3) therapy (group 2: n = 6). the dose of t3 given was 0.2 microgram/kg at 30-minute intervals to a total of six doses. plasma free t3 level fell significantly during the ischemic period in both groups and continued to fall after reperfusion in group 1. in both groups, cardiac function deteriorated significantly during the period of ischemia and rapidly returned to control level after reperfusion. after 90 minutes of reperfusion, however, deterioration of left ventricular function was observed in group 1 and was significantly worse than in group 2, in which hemodynamic function was maintained and, in fact, improved to levels superior to control. it is suggested that t3 therapy may be worthy of trial in patients in whom reperfusion of the myocardium takes place after a relatively short ischemic period (the "stunned myocardium").
emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding. thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment, or both, failed to arrest variceal bleeding, or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts (epss) were studied. epss permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient. in this patient, the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography. esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14. three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed. the causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient. one patient was classified in child's category b and two in child's category c. thirty-two patients submitted to epss and were discharged alive. twelve of these patients subsequently died, at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure. four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure; two patients died of hepatomas; two, other neoplasia; three, hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers, and one patient, renal failure. analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent. the long term survival rates were fewer for patients with child's category c than for those with combined child's categories a and b (five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent; p less than 0.05). during the follow-up period, none of the patients had variceal bleeding. chronic encephalopathy developed in six, which was mild in three, moderate in one instance and severe in two. it developed soon after epss, with onset in the first month after discharge in three. thus, when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding, epss should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period.
ileocolic neobladder post-cystectomy: continence and potency. incontinence and impotence are 2 of the primary complications associated with total bladder reconstruction after cystectomy for carcinoma. these and other features are addressed in 25 patients who underwent total neobladder reconstruction following cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma. of these patients 20 had a urethral anastomosis. no patient had to wear a pad or device. enuresis was rare. when the radical cystoprostatectomy population was contrasted with a radical prostatectomy patient population, continence was achieved more rapidly in the neobladder group. potency was maintained in 15 of 21 (71%) evaluable patients. this ileocolic neobladder produces a large volume and low pressure, and provides excellent day and night continence. with preservation of the neurovascular bundle potency can be maintained in the majority of patients.
blood pressure lowering in elderly subjects: a double-blind crossover study of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. in 46 elderly (aged greater than or equal to 60 y) hypertensive subjects with entry systolic blood pressure (sbp) greater than or equal to 160 or diastolic blood pressure (dbp) greater than or equal to 90 mm hg, our specific aim in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study (two 8-wk treatment periods separated by a 3-wk washout) was to compare blood pressure-lowering effects of 9 g fish oil/d [omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid] vs 9 g corn oil/d [omega-6 (n-6) fatty acid]. after a 4-wk baseline period, 22 subjects were randomly assigned to receive fish oil and 24 to receive corn oil. for both 8-wk treatments there were no between-group differences in the change in blood pressure. there was a treatment difference for standing dbp when baseline values were compared with those after treatment 2; dbp decreased by 5.1 mm hg in the fish-oil group vs 0.72 mm hg in the corn-oil group (p = 0.024). within groups during the first treatment, both fish oil and corn oil lowered all four blood pressure measures (p less than 0.05); blood pressures were not further lowered during the second treatment compared with the washout period. there were no significant between-group differences in laboratory safety tests or categorical side effects. fish oil lowered triglycerides by 0.47 mmol/l (p less than 0.001). in elderly subjects, diet plus both omega-3 and omega-6 supplements (9 g/d) safely and effectively lower sbp and dbp.
living arrangements and sources of caregiving. this study examined both the prevalence of different types of caregivers (in terms of the relation to the individual), and whether living with someone is more important for caregiving than the relation of an elder to an individual. caregiving is examined in terms of iadl and emotional support. analyses are conducted using three separate random samples of those who are married and living with a spouse, those who live alone, and those who live with nonspousal others in winnipeg, manitoba, canada. the results confirm previous research pointing out that married people tend to receive assistance from their spouse. among nonmarrieds, children are named most frequently as the primary caregiver. after children, however, those who live alone tend to receive assistance from friends, and those who live with nonspousal others receive assistance from siblings. the data further document the importance of the structural characteristic of living with someone, rather than marital status, for assistance with iadl.
laser angioplasty: results of a prospective, multicenter study at 3-year follow-up. a prospective multicenter trial was initiated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of laser angioplasty. laser recanalization was performed in 338 patients with arteriosclerotic femoropopliteal artery occlusions (average length, 8.5 cm). neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet lasers were used in combination with sapphire probe catheters. the initial recanalization rate was 85%. complications were observed in 14% of the patients. emergency surgery was required in 1.5%. the cumulative long-term patency rate of the successfully recanalized arteries was 80%, 70%, 62%, and 57% at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 and 3 years, respectively. the patency rates were not affected by the length of the occlusion and the long-term medication (platelet inhibition vs anticoagulation), but patients with a normal runoff had significantly better patency rates than those with reduced runoff (63% vs 52%, p less than .01). the study has shown that laser-assisted angioplasty is safe and at least as effective as conventional angioplasty.
meiotic recombination between yeast artificial chromosomes yields a single clone containing the entire bcl2 protooncogene. the common translocation found in human follicular lymphoma, t(14;18)(q32;q21), results in deregulation of the bcl2 protoonocogene. the isolation of the intact gene would provide an essential substrate to analyze the molecular basis of this malignancy. pulsed-field gel electrophoresis suggested that this three-exon gene was several hundred kilobases (kb) long. therefore, a library of yeast artificial chromosome (yac) clones was screened to isolate the intact bcl2 gene. two clones, ya85b6 (200 kb) and yb206a6 (700 kb), were isolated by using polymerase chain reaction (pcr) assays specific for exon i/ii and exon iii, respectively. however, neither yac contained the entire bcl2 locus. since the two yacs were found to overlap by 60 kb, we sought to take advantage of the high recombination frequency in yeast and induce physical recombination between the two clones. cells containing each yac were mated and induced to undergo meiotic division and sporulation. analysis of the resulting tetrads revealed a spore containing a single recombinant yac of 800 kb. pcr assays and southern blotting demonstrated that this recombined yac contained the entire approximately 230-kb bcl2 gene. furthermore, probe order was conserved and there was no evidence of overt rearrangements or deletions. these results indicate the feasibility of reconstructing large genomic segments with overlapping yac clones to study genes spanning hundreds of kilobases.
a histologic evaluation of the accuracy of tmj diagnostic arthroscopy. sixty-seven temporomandibular joints with internal derangement were examined with arthroscopy, and synovial biopsies were taken for histologic evaluation. histologically, in 10 cases, the synovium appeared to be normal in appearance, 24 cases had moderate to severe synovitis, 11 cases showed hyperplastic synovitis, 13 cases showed synovial fibrosis, and foreign body granuloma was found in 9 cases. correlation between arthroscopic observation and histologic findings disclosed an 89.1% specificity and 100% sensitivity.
effective intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy for taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats in canine pancreatitis, irreversible hypotension and death follow saturation of the antiprotease molecules in peritoneal exudate by activated proteolytic enzymes which are released from the pancreas. this study has examined, in rats with taurocholate-induced pancreatitis, the efficacy of removal of the peritoneal exudate by aspiration and a single lavage, followed by instillation of an exogenous antiprotease solution. instillation of human fresh frozen plasma, containing alpha 2-macroglobulin and alpha 1-antiprotease, was associated with the longest median survival. aprotinin, although possessing a much greater trypsin inhibitory capacity, just failed to significantly improve the median survival time compared with the control group. intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy is simple to perform, has a beneficial effect on survival time in this model and merits investigation in man.
in vivo biological effects of stereotactic radiosurgery: a primate model. single-fraction, closed skull, small-volume irradiation (radiosurgery) of intact intracranial structures requires accurate knowledge of radiation tolerance. we have developed a baboon model to assess the in vivo destructive radiobiological effects of stereotactic radiosurgery. three baboons received a single-fraction, 150-gy lesion of the caudate nucleus, the thalamus, or the pons using the 8-mm diameter collimator of the gamma unit. serial standard neurodiagnostic tests (neurological examination, computed tomographic scan, magnetic resonance imaging, stable xenon-enhanced computed tomographic scan of cerebral blood flow, somatosensory and brain stem evoked potentials, and myelin basic protein levels of cerebrospinal fluid) were compared with preoperative studies. magnetic resonance imaging revealed the development of a lesion at the target site between 45 and 60 days after irradiation. deterioration of the brain stem evoked potentials preceded imaging changes when the lesion encroached on auditory pathways. myelin basic protein levels increased subsequent to imaging changes. postmortem neuropathological examination confirmed a well-demarcated radionecrosis of the target volume. the baboon model appears to be an excellent method to study the in vivo biological effects of radiosurgery.
mechanisms in heart failure and the role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition. the four major diagnostic criteria for the syndrome of congestive heart failure are left ventricular dysfunction, exercise intolerance, pulmonary congestion or edema and ventricular arrhythmias. activation of norepinephrine, angiotensin ii, vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide may be a key factor in the vasoconstriction and increased impedance to left ventricular ejection in heart failure. interventions that interfere with these vasoconstrictor mechanisms should have a salutary effect on left ventricular performance. treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors, alpha-adrenoceptor blockers and vasopressin antagonists has resulted in hemodynamic benefits, but it has been more difficult to demonstrate long-term clinical effectiveness. reductions in mortality have been demonstrated in patients with heart failure treated with vasodilators and ace inhibitors. improvement in the quality of life and prolongation of life are the only two appropriate goals in the management of heart failure. further understanding of the role of angiotensin ii and its interference by ace inhibition in the tissue processes of heart failure is needed.
intraatrial extension of thyroid cancer: technique and results of a radical surgical approach. an occlusion of the superior vena cava by a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium was diagnosed in three patients with a follicular thyroid cancer. all patients showed the typical clinical picture of the superior vena cava syndrome. a right parasternal thoracotomy was performed for preparation of the major vessels. the superior vena cava was opened and the entire intravascular tumor thrombus was removed. the cavotomy was closed directly in two patients. in the third patient the left brachiocephalic trunk was resected and reconstructed with a vascular (polytetrafluoroethylene) graft. this patient had bone and brain metastases and an occlusion of the graft 3 months after surgery after anticoagulation was stopped. the other two patients were clinically symptom free without local recurrence 13 and 50 months after surgery. an aggressive surgical approach is justified in grossly invasive thyroid cancer to decrease local recurrence and death rates, to correct the disturbing clinical symptoms of superior vena caval occlusion, and to prevent tumor embolism and the development of distant metastases. by reducing tumor mass, an even better basis for radioiodine treatment can be prepared.
overdose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution. a preventable cause of postischemic myocardial depression. reperfusion of warm blood cardioplegic solution is useful in minimizing reperfusion damage after ischemia. this study tests the hypothesis that overzealous administration of blood cardioplegic solution at reperfusion counteracts these benefits and can lead to a prevalence of depressed ventricular performance and mortality similar to that seen after normal blood reperfusion. thirty-one dogs underwent 45 minutes of 37 degrees c global ischemia on vented bypass. six received normal blood reperfusion and 25 were reperfused with a warm aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution; of these, eight received high-dose (3600 +/- 600 ml) and 17 received limited-dose (1180 +/- 120 ml) blood cardioplegic reperfusion over 10 to 20 minutes. high-dose blood cardioplegic perfusion (5100 +/- 200 ml) without prior ischemia was tested in an additional five dogs. high-dose blood cardioplegia without preceding ischemia did not alter ventricular function (peak stroke work index 96% of control). after ischemia, normal blood reperfusion (no cardioplegia) resulted in marked left ventricular dysfunction (peak stroke work index 36% of control, p less than 0.05 versus control) and a 33% mortality rate (2/6 died). high-dose cardioplegic reperfusion yielded marginal recovery of stroke work index (40% of control, p less than 0.05 versus control) and a 25% mortality rate (2/8 died). in contrast, limited-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution allowed 100% survival (17/17) and restored stroke work index to 90% of control (1.3 versus 1.45 gm.m/kg). we conclude that reperfusion damage can be avoided by initial reoxygenation with limited doses of substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution. conversely, high-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution offsets this benefit, reduces recovery substantially, and may be lethal.
emergency cardiopulmonary bypass support in patients with cardiac arrest. emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was instituted in 11 patients in cardiac arrest refractory to conventional resuscitation measures. emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was used in five patients in whom cardiac arrest occurred as a result of a complication in the cardiac catheterization laboratory (group 1) and in six other patients in cardiac arrest (group ii). a 21f cannula and a 17f cannula were percutaneously inserted into the femoral vein and artery. flow rates of 3 to 5 l/min were achieved with restoration of mean arterial pressure to 70 mm hg (range 50 to 75). the status of all 11 patients was improved initially both clinically and hemodynamically with percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass. of the group ii patients, three had anatomy unsuitable for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass grafting, could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary support, and died; three of these patients had coronary artery bypass grafting and two survived. all five group i patients underwent successful coronary bypass grafting and survived. of the seven patients with anatomically correctable disease, all seven were discharged from the hospital. with conventional management nearly all seven of these patients would have died. nine of 11 patients underwent a cardiac operation and seven of the nine survived. the operative mortality rate was 22% and the overall survival rate was 64%. at follow-up (mean 7 months), all seven patients are alive and six have resumed a normal and active life-style. in conclusion, emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support is a powerful resuscitative tool that may stabilize the condition of patients in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest to allow for definitive intervention.
ultrasonography compared with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria objective--to compare ultrasonography with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria. design--prospective study entailing the examination of all patients with both investigations concurrently. the investigations were performed independently on routine lists by different duty radiologists. each was aware of the details of the request form but not of the findings of the other investigation. setting--radiology department of a teaching hospital. patients--155 consecutive adult patients (aged 18-93) referred from general practitioners and hospital outpatient clinics with a history of haematuria. follow up--when results of both examinations proved normal no clinical or radiological follow up was sought. all abnormal findings of either investigation were correlated with results of subsequent imaging studies or operative findings. results--81 patients (52%) had normal findings on urography and ultrasonography. overall, the findings of ultrasonography concurred with those of urography in 144 cases (93%). among the discrepant findings of the two investigations ultrasonography missed two ureteric calculi; one was in a non-dilated ureter, and in the other case ultrasonography detected the secondary ureteric dilatation. ultrasound examination alone detected four bladder tumours not visible on urography with sizes ranging from 5 to 21 mm, representing one fifth of the 20 cystoscopically proved bladder tumours detected in the series. ultrasonography detected all the 22 neoplastic lesions discovered in the study (20 bladder, two renal). ultrasonography clarified the nature of renal masses evident in three urograms (simple cysts). conclusions--ultrasonography is a safe and accurate method of investigating the urinary tract in adults with haematuria. when combined with a single plain abdominal radiograph it proved to be superior to urography as the primary imaging study in this series. ultrasonography should certainly be preferred to urography if cystoscopy is not planned. no urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract were found in the series, reflecting their rarity. for those patients in whom ultrasonography and plain radiography have shown no abnormality and in whom cystoscopic appearances are normal urography would be advisable to exclude urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract.
role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy. the purpose of this study was to determine the role of laparoscopy in patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and a normal computerized tomograph (ct). twenty-five consecutive patients with a normal liver and no peritoneal lesions on ct were evaluated. patients with a documented primary neoplasm or a positive ascitic fluid cytology were excluded. at laparoscopy, malignancy was documented by biopsy in 12 patients for an incidence of 48%. of the patients with exudative ascites, 75% had peritoneal metastases. in addition seven patients had benign liver disease documented by laparoscopic biopsy. liver enzymes were not helpful in distinguishing benign and malignant disease in this group of patients. this study indicates that a negative ct does not exclude liver or peritoneal malignancy. laparoscopy has a significant yield in patients with a negative ct suspected of having hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and is the procedure of choice in evaluating these patients.
modeling human performance in running. this paper focuses on the characteristics of a model interpreting the effect of training on athletic performance. the model theory is presented both mathematically and graphically. in the model, a systematically quantified impulse of training produces dual responses: fitness and fatigue. in the absence of training, both decay exponentially with time. with repetitive training, these responses satisfy individual recurrence equations. fitness and fatigue are combined in a simple linear difference equation to predict performance levels appropriate to the intensity of training being undertaken. significant observed correlation of model-predicted performance with a measure of actual performance during both training and tapering provides validation of the model for athletes and nonathletes alike. this enables specific model parameters to be estimated and can be used to optimize future training regimens for any individual.
neisseria mucosa endocarditis. a case of neisseria mucosa tricuspid valve endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser is described. the patient was treated initially with intravenous penicillin g followed by oral penicillin vk but relapsed. he was cured after 4 weeks of combined therapy with penicillin g and gentamicin. in vitro synergy studies performed on the patient's and two other isolates revealed synergy in all three. thus, combination therapy is recommended for treatment of recalcitrant cases of bacterial endocarditis caused by n. mucosa.
late effects of paralytic poliomyelitis in olmsted county, minnesota. we identified a cohort of 300 individuals who had paralytic polio between 1935 and 1955. all lived in olmsted county, minnesota. from the 247 survivors, we selected 50 subjects for detailed historical, functional, psychological, clinical, and electrophysiologic evaluation. sixty-four percent of these 50 survivors complained of new symptoms of muscle pain, fatigue, and weakness after a period of prolonged stability. this led to changes in lifestyle or activity in only 18%. the likelihood of expressing new complaints was not related to present age or interval since polio, and electrophysiologic testing did not distinguish between those with or without new problems. the development of new difficulties in a limb was most strongly predicted by significant paralysis of that limb at the time of the acute illness. patients with leg weakness were twice as likely to complain of new problems compared to those with arm weakness. elevated creatine kinase levels were present only in those with new complaints.
treatment of decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the emergency department--correlation between clinical features and prognosis. study objective: patients with decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) are at high risk of relapse after treatment in an emergency department. the purpose of this study was to determine if the risk of relapse correlates with the clinical features of the disease. patients: three hundred fifty-two patients with documented copd who were treated for dyspnea in the ed of the albuquerque veterans administration medical center over a three-year period. methods: we reviewed the clinical features and pulmonary function tests of the patients, who were considered to have copd if the baseline prebronchodilator one-second forced expiratory volume (fev1) was less than 80% predicted, and less than 80% of the forced vital capacity and inhaled bronchodilators failed to increase the fev1 to levels of more than 80% predicted. visits for pneumonia, pneumothorax, pleural effusion, or pulmonary emboli were excluded. a relapse was defined as an unscheduled revisit to the ed within 14 days of initial treatment. data were entered into a microcomputer data base and analyzed by a commercial statistical package. results: of 877 visits in which the patient was treated and released from the ed, 281 (32.0%) resulted in relapse and were considered unsuccessful compared with successful visits, unsuccessful visits were characterized by a shorter duration of dyspnea (p = .002), a lower entry fev1 (p = .027), a lower discharge fev1 (p = .040), a greater number of treatments with nebulized bronchodilators (p = .009), more frequent use of parenteral adrenergic drugs (p = .006), and less frequent use of oral prednisone on discharge (p = .016). patients with one or more relapse visits during the study period (relapsers) differed from nonrelapsers in several respects. relapsers had a greater bronchodilator response on baseline fev1 than nonrelapsers (p = .047). nevertheless, relapsers required more bronchodilator treatments in the ed (p less than .001); were treated more frequently with parenteral adrenergic drugs (p less than .001), iv glucocorticoids (p less than .001), and oral prednisone (p less than .001); and recovered less of their baseline fev1 (p less than .014). conclusion: bronchodilator response on baseline pulmonary function testing appears to identify patients with copd who have a poor prognosis after emergency treatment. their poor response to intensive bronchodilator treatment suggests that loss of bronchodilator response may be involved in the pathogenesis of respiratory decompensation.
time course and prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms after a first acute myocardial infarction. the prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms recorded during the first 3 days (period 1), in the second week (period 2) after a first acute myocardial infarction (ami) and 6 months later (period 3) was prospectively assessed in 190 patients. no patients were treated with thrombolytic therapy. patients with conduction disturbances were excluded. mean age of the 190 patients was 57 years (range 34 to 74) and mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 40 + 6% (range 12 to 70). eighty-four patients had an anterior wall ami and the remaining 106 patients an inferior wall ami. after a mean follow-up of 24 months, 16 patients developed sustained symptomatic monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, 7 patients were resuscitated from an episode of ventricular fibrillation, and 10 patients died suddenly. multivariate regression analysis using continuous variables showed that the strongest predictor of sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was the left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.0001) followed by the duration of qrs complex on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram recorded during the first 3 days of ami (p less than 0.0005). sudden death was only predicted by left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.02).
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age. argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains; however, its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial. this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains, spider angiomas, epidermal nevi, and lentigines. the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed. good to excellent results (moderate to complete clearing) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure. hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children, all of whom had undressed wounds; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively.
plasma concentrations of methadone during postoperative patient-controlled extradural analgesia. plasma concentrations of methadone were measured by gas chromatography in 16 patients receiving extradural methadone by continuous infusion for relief of postoperative pain. venous blood samples were taken after a loading dose of extradural methadone 2 mg and during infusion of 0.46 mg h-1 plus patient-controlled increments of 0.2-1 mg. mean (sd) plasma concentration of methadone was 9.8 (2.1) ng ml-1 at 15 min; this did not change significantly during the first 2 h, after which it increased gradually to 32.2 (4.6) ng ml-1 (p less than 0.001) at the end of 24 h. the mean quantity of extradural methadone required to produce effective analgesia was 10.3 (1.8) mg during the first 12 h after operation and 6 (1.0) mg for the subsequent 12 h. the mean amount of methadone for effective analgesia on the second day was 7.6 (1.1) mg. no adverse effects were detected during the 2-3 days of methadone therapy. plasma concentration of methadone increased significantly during patient-controlled infusion of extradural methadone in the first 24 h after operation, suggesting rapid vascular uptake. systemic activity of the drug contributes to the analgesic effect of extradural methadone.
hyperfunctioning metastatic follicular thyroid carcinoma in pendred's syndrome. a 66-year-old woman with pendred's syndrome underwent a partial thyroidectomy when she was 17 years old. at the age of 52 years, she had a second thyroid operation because of hyperthyroidism due to a toxic multinodular goiter with a mediastinal extension consisting of several separate nodules. five years later a hyperfunctioning metastatic follicular carcinoma was diagnosed histologically. after treatment with radioactive iodine, the patient was well. to the authors' knowledge, this is the first description of a metastatic follicular thyroid carcinoma in pendred's syndrome and the first report of hyperthyroidism occurring after malignant degeneration of a dyshormonogenetic goiter.
percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty following treated endocarditis in a patient with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis. a 36-year-old woman with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis developed the rare complication of endocarditis of the valve. after successful sterilization of the valve, the patient underwent percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty at a later date. the procedure successfully reduced the peak pulmonary valve gradient from 94 to 45 mm hg. percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is the procedure of choice for treatment of congenital pulmonary valvular stenosis, even in the unusual patient who has healed endocarditis of the pulmonary valve.
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker. phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals. its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer, safer drugs. we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache. he developed grand mal seizures, coma, hypotension, respiratory and renal failure, and hepatic injury. serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml. the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis.
relation between transcardiac and transthoracic current during defibrillation in humans. conceptually, transthoracic defibrillation threshold current can be considered a function of at least two quantities. it is directly proportional to the transcardiac threshold current and inversely proportional to the transcardiac current fraction (fc) or the ratio of transcardiac and transthoracic current. although experimental and theoretical estimates of fc have been as high as 45%, previous measurements in humans have not been made. this study was designed to quantify fc in humans. during intraoperative testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator, transthoracic rescue shocks of 200-400 j were delivered when the device failed to defibrillate. simultaneous transthoracic voltage (vt) and transcardiac voltage (vc) between two implanted epicardial patch electrodes were measured. the ratio, vc/vt, was 0.04 +/- 0.03 (mean +/- sd) in 10 patients. in 16 dogs, a comparison was made between direct measurement of fc and vc/vt. fc was determined with a specially designed electrode system, which was calibrated to account for field distortion introduced by the electrodes. there was no significant difference between fc and vc/vt, which were both approximately 0.05, suggesting that vc/vt was statistically equivalent to fc. the results of this study, therefore, indicate that during transthoracic defibrillation in humans, approximately 4% of transthoracic current traverses the heart. this relatively small percentage of current results from the existence of parallel pathways, such as the thoracic cage and lungs, which shunt current around the heart.
malignant cyst of the lateral aspect of the neck: branchial cleft carcinoma or metastasis? a 58-year-old man had a left jugulodigastric mass, which was found to be cystic by computed tomography, and no evidence of other lesions. grossly and histologically, the surgical specimen consisted of a thin-walled, fluid-filled cyst lined by squamous epithelium that varied in appearance from benign to invasive squamous cell carcinoma. the findings supported a differential diagnosis of branchial cleft carcinoma (bcca) versus cystic growth of a lymph node metastasis from an occult malignancy. on this basis, guided biopsies of the upper aerodigestive tract were performed, with strong suspicion of a tonsillar bed lesion. microscopic examination revealed the primary tumor within tissue excised from the left tonsillar fossa. comparison of the current case with cases of bcca and cystic tonsillar metastases from the literature illustrated the potential pitfalls in rendering a diagnosis of bcca. recognition of this lesion as a distinctive clinical variant of oropharyngeal carcinoma is warranted.
clinical safety and efficacy of celiprolol. the management of essential hypertension requires therapeutic selections that are not only effective in reducing diastolic blood pressure but are also tailored to the individual patient, with minimal effect on patient demographics, concurrent illnesses, and cardiovascular risk factors. celiprolol hydrochloride is a new highly cardioselective vasodilating beta-adrenoceptor antagonist that has been proven effective and safe for the treatment of essential hypertension. it is comparable to other therapies in blood pressure control while demonstrating an excellent safety profile, favorable hemodynamic activity, and minimal effects on other cardiovascular risk factors. celiprolol may offer the physician a unique therapeutic alternative.
angiodysplasia: characterization, diagnosis, and advances in treatment. gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2% of all adult hospital admissions each year. angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding. in 80% of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia, the bleeding will stop spontaneously, but will often recur. although angiography may detect bleeding in 86% of actively bleeding patients, the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 ml/min. the treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel, but this procedure is associated with a 10% rebleeding rate and 7% to 8% mortality. superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding, but effects are short-lived. superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel, but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction. laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84% of patients, with a 6% complication rate. this method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages, especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient. except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated, nd:yag laser photocoagulation is the safest, least invasive, and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia.
the estimation of post-test probability of coronary disease following exercise testing using the sequential application of two bayesian methods. recent studies have revealed that bayesian methods to estimate post-test probability following exercise testing differ in their sensitivity and specificity across the range of post-test probability. to take advantage of the relative strengths of each method, we combined two of these methods into a single method (dual bayes) and compared it with the two original methods in 436 patients who underwent stress testing followed within 2 months by coronary arteriography. all patients had post-test probabilities determined using cadenza (better sensitivity). those cadenza-derived probabilities greater than or equal to 50% were substituted with post-test probabilities determined by diamond and forrester's original tabular method (better specificity). mean post-test probabilities were as follows: tabular 34, cadenza 48, dual bayes 37 (actual incidence 38%). comparison of sensitivity and specificity at every fifth percentile of post-test probability revealed that the sensitivity of dual bayes was better than that of tabular and equal to that of cadenza at thresholds less than or equal to 10 and that the specificity was better than that of cadenza and equal to that of tabular at thresholds greater than or equal to 60. therefore using both methods as indicated above was better than using either method alone.
early 24-hour blood pressure elevation in normotensive subjects with parental hypertension subjects with a family history of parental hypertension are reported to have a slightly higher office blood pressure in the prehypertensive stage. whether this reflects a hyperreactivity to blood pressure measurement or a more permanent blood pressure elevation, however, is not known. in the present study, blood pressure was measured in 15 normotensive subjects whose parents are both hypertensive (fh++), 15 normotensive subjects with one hypertensive parent (fh(+)-), and 15 normotensive subjects whose parents are not hypertensive (fh--); among the three groups, subjects were matched for age, sex, and body mass index. the measurements were made in the office during a variety of laboratory stressors and during a prolonged resting period, and for a 24-hour period (ambulatory blood pressure monitoring). office blood pressure was higher in the fh++ group than in the fh-- group (p less than 0.05). the pressor responses to laboratory stressors were similar in the two groups, but the fh++ group had higher prolonged resting and 24-hour blood pressure than the fh-- group; the difference was always significant (p less than 0.05) for systolic blood pressure. the fh++ group also had a greater left ventricular mass index (on echocardiographic examination) than the fh-- group (p less than 0.01). the blood pressure values and echocardiographic values of the fh(+)- group tended to be between those of the other two groups. thus, the higher blood pressure shown by individuals in the prehypertensive stage with a family history of parental hypertension does not reflect a hyperreactivity to stress but an early permanent blood pressure elevation.
noninvasive discrimination of right atrial ectopic tachycardia from sinus tachycardia in "dilated cardiomyopathy". right atrial ectopic tachycardia (raet) with secondary cardiac dysfunction can be difficult to differentiate from primary dilated cardiomyopathy (cmp) with sinus tachycardia. in an attempt to separate raet from cmp by noninvasive testing, routine surface electrocardiograms (eggs), 24-hour ambulatory ecgs (holter monitors), and echocardiograms of patients with raet (n = 34) and cmp (n = 33) were reviewed. raet atrial rates were significantly faster than cmp rates on the resting ecg and on holter monitoring; 12 of 33 patients with raet had resting ecg rates greater than 150% of predicted normal values for age but none of 32 patients with cmps had resting ecg rates in this range. mean p wave axis in the horizontal plane was more posterior in patients with raet and was less than 0 degrees (negative in lead v2) in 8 of 29 patients with raet but in 1 of 33 patients with cmp. second-degree atrioventricular (av) block was observed in 12 of 33 patients with raet but in none of 33 with cmp. shortening fraction less than 10% was found in 13 of 33 individuals with cmp but in only 1 of 27 with raet. we conclude that noninvasive studies can help identify raet among patients with poor functioning hearts and right atrial tachycardia.
tardive dyskinesia. tardive dyskinesia is a potentially irreversible syndrome of involuntary hyperkinetic movements that occur in predisposed persons receiving extended neuroleptic (antipsychotic) drug therapy. it is usually characterized by choreoathetoid dyskinesias in the orofacial, limb, and truncal regions, but subtypes of this syndrome may include tardive dystonia and tardive akathisia. although the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of this disorder are unproven, altered dopaminergic functions will likely play a role in any explanation of it. tardive dyskinesia develops in 20% of neuroleptic-treated patients, but high-risk groups such as the elderly have substantially higher rates. risk factors include age, female sex, affective disorders, and probably those without psychotic diagnoses, including patients receiving drugs with antidopaminergic activity for nausea or gastrointestinal dysfunction for extended periods. total drug exposure is positively correlated with tardive dyskinesia risk. management strategies include a careful evaluation of both the psychiatric and neurologic states, a broad differential diagnosis, and adjustment of neuroleptic agents to the lowest effective dose that controls psychosis and minimizes motor side effects. no drug therapy is uniformly safe and effective for treating this disorder. a favorable long-term outcome of improvement or resolution correlates with younger age, early detection, lower drug exposure, and duration of follow-up.
contrast venography in patients with very edematous feet: use of transdermal illumination to aid in vein puncture. contrast venography can be technically difficult or impossible in patients with very edematous feet. the authors report a simple technique that uses transdermal illumination of the edematous subcutaneous tissue to enable visualization of a vein and also guide the needle into the vein. this technique has been used successfully in eight patients in whom conventional attempts at vein puncture had failed.
the clinical course of residual carotid arterial disease. over a 5-year period 642 patients underwent 686 carotid endarterectomies with patch closure and intraoperative surveillance with continuous-wave doppler. the perioperative stroke rate was 1.5%. patients were screened with duplex scans immediately after operation for the presence of residual carotid lesions, and followed every 3 to 6 months for either the development of a true recurrent lesion or a change in a residual one. five hundred thirty-nine arteries (84%) had no postoperative abnormalities. the incidence of recurrent carotid lesions in this groups was 1.5%, 3.4%, and 5.2% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. the incidence of symptoms in this group was 0.2%, 0.7%, and 1.4% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. the earliest recurrence or symptom occurred 8 months from operation. one hundred forty-seven arteries had residual lesions that were more common when either a temporary shunt was used or the operation was carried out above the hypoglossal nerve or below the omohyoid muscle. sixty-one patients who had plaque proximal to the arteriotomy without a significant stenosis were followed an average of 21 months. there were no changes in plaque morphology and no proven symptoms related to the residual lesion. fifty-six patients with both plaque and significant hemodynamic abnormalities in the carotid bulb were followed an average of 18 months. seven of these patients (12.5%) had either a significant deterioration of the lesion or a symptom from it. each event occurred within 6 months of operation. thirty patients had significant flow abnormalities but no visible plaque. none of these lesions deteriorated. although common, residual carotid lesions are benign unless the lesion is characterized by both plaque within the artery and a hemodynamically significant stenosis. these lesions should be further investigated and treated when discovered.
experimental retinal branch vein occlusion in miniature pigs induces local tissue hypoxia and vasoproliferative microangiopathy. in miniature pigs, retinal veins were experimentally occluded using argon laser coagulation. microvascular modifications leading to retinal hemorrhages and retinal edema were observed some hours after the occlusion. these lesions resolved progressively within 3 weeks after the occlusion, but in most cases ischemic retinal territories persisted. preretinal partial pressure of oxygen (po2) measurements, using double barrelled o2-sensitive microelectrodes, showed that all the ischemic areas were indeed hypoxic. in half of the experiments, preretinal and intravitreal new vessels grew on the ischemic territories. tissue hypoxia appears to be a key step in triggering neovascularization. however, the critical level of hypoxia was not determined.
the relationship of prostate specific antigen levels and residual tumor volume in stage a prostate cancer. preoperative serum prostate specific antigen correlates well with morphometrically determined prostate tumor volume in prostatectomy specimens. however, since prostate specific antigen is produced by hyperplastic as well as malignant prostatic epithelium, the contribution of hyperplastic epithelium (benign prostatic hyperplasia) to serum prostate specific antigen interferes with the ability of serum prostate specific antigen to predict tumor volume in individual patients. we wondered if the removal of benign prostatic hyperplasia tissue would increase the correlation between prostate specific antigen and tumor volume, and, thus, make prostate specific antigen a more accurate predictor of residual cancer volume after transurethral resection of the prostate. a total of 67 patients with clinical stage a cancer underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy (22, or 33%, with stage a1 and 45, or 67%, with stage a2 disease), and had pre-radical prostatectomy measurement of serum prostate specific antigen and morphometric determination of residual cancer volume in the radical prostatectomy specimen. the correlation between serum prostate specific antigen and residual cancer volume for all 67 patients was 0.66, and for stages a1 and a2 disease it was 0.64 and 0.70, respectively. all stage a1 cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of 1 ng./ml. or less had residual tumor volumes of less than 0.5 cc and all stage a cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of more than 10 ng./ml. had residual tumor volumes of greater than 0.5 cc. of the patients 51% had levels of 1 to 10 ng./ml. and serum prostate specific antigen was not useful to predict residual tumor volume in this group. serum prostate specific antigen measurements may be helpful in stage a1 cancer patients with levels of 1 ng./ml. or less, or greater than 10 ng./ml. in choosing the most appropriate therapy.
choice of emergency operative procedure for bleeding duodenal ulcer in a consecutive series of 201 emergency operations in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer the size of the ulcer was the only factor that showed a significant correlation with the procedure chosen. vagotomy, pyloroplasty and underrunning of the bleeding point was performed in 101 cases with ten deaths (10 per cent), partial (billroth ii) gastrectomy in 81 cases with ten deaths (12 per cent), and vagotomy and antrectomy in 16 cases with one death (6 per cent). a patient was more likely to be treated by partial gastrectomy if a giant ulcer with an internal diameter of greater than or equal to 2 cm was found. the results suggest that while vagotomy and pyloroplasty, combined with a direct attack on the bleeding point or excision of an anterior ulcer is an acceptable standard emergency operation for bleeding duodenal ulcer, gastric resection proved to be a satisfactory alternative procedure and should be considered in the technically difficult case with a very large ulcer. a giant ulcer was present in 37 per cent of cases coming to surgery.
percutaneous balloon versus surgical closed commissurotomy for mitral stenosis. a prospective, randomized trial background. we performed a prospective, randomized trial comparing percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with surgical closed commissurotomy in 40 patients with severe rheumatic mitral stenosis. methods and results. data were analyzed by investigators who were masked to treatment assignment or phase of study. patients randomized to balloon (n = 20) or surgical (n = 20) commissurotomy had severe mitral stenosis without significant baseline differences (left atrial pressure, 26.1 +/- 4.2 versus 27.6 +/- 6.2 mm hg; mitral valve gradient, 18.0 +/- 4.2 versus 19.7 +/- 6.3 mm hg; mitral valve area, 1.0 +/- 0.2 versus 1.0 +/- 0.4 cm2, respectively). at 1-week follow-up after balloon commissurotomy, pulmonary wedge pressure was 14.3 +/- 7.2 mm hg; mitral valve gradient was 9.6 +/- 5.1 mm hg; and mitral valve area was 1.6 +/- 0.6 cm2 (all p less than 0.0001). at 1-week follow-up after surgical closed commissurotomy, wedge pressure was 13.7 +/- 5.4 mm hg; mitral valve gradient was 9.4 +/- 4.2 mm hg (both p less than 0.0001); and mitral valve area was 1.6 +/- 0.7 cm2 (p less than 0.003). at 8-month follow-up, improvement occurred in both groups: mitral valve area was 1.6 +/- 0.6 cm2 in the balloon commissurotomy group (p less than 0.002) and was 1.8 +/- 0.6 cm2 in the surgical closed commissurotomy group (p less than 0.0001). there was no difference between the groups at 1-week or 8-month follow-up (all p greater than 0.4). one case of severe mitral regurgitation occurred in each group; complications were otherwise related to transseptal catheterization. there was no death, stroke, or myocardial infarction. cost analysis revealed that balloon commissurotomy may substantially exceed the cost of surgical commissurotomy in developing countries, whereas it may represent a significant savings in industrialized nations. conclusions. we conclude that percutaneous balloon commissurotomy and surgical closed commissurotomy result in comparable hemodynamic improvement that is sustained through 8 months of follow-up.
x-linked spinal muscular atrophy (kennedy's syndrome). a kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia. kennedy's syndrome, x-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy, has been described in over 30 families. the characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome, augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia. type iv or type ii hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families. we have studied another family with kennedy's syndrome, this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia. the diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy. however, gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for kennedy's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor, which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities.
ten-year incidence of myocardial infarction and prognosis after infarction. department of veterans affairs cooperative study of coronary artery bypass surgery background. the 10-year incidence of myocardial infarction (fatal and nonfatal) and the prognosis after infarction were evaluated in 686 patients with stable angina who were randomly assigned to medical or surgical treatment in the veterans administration cooperative study of coronary artery bypass surgery. methods and results. myocardial infarction was defined by either new q wave findings or clinical symptoms compatible with myocardial infarction accompanied by serum enzyme elevations with or without electrocardiographic findings. treatment comparisons were made according to original treatment assignment; 35% of the medical cohort had bypass surgery during the 10-year follow-up period. the overall cumulative infarction rate was somewhat higher in patients assigned to surgery (36%) than in medical patients (31%) (p = 0.13) due to perioperative infarctions (13%) and an accelerated infarction rate after the fifth year of follow-up (average, 2.4%/yr in the surgical group versus 1.4%/yr in the medical group). the 10-year cumulative incidence of death or myocardial infarction was also higher in surgical (54%) than in medical (49%) patients (p = 0.20). according to the cox model, the estimated risk of death after infarction was 59% lower in surgical than in medical patients (p less than 0.0001). the reduction in postinfarction mortality with surgery was most striking in the first month after the event: 99% in the first month (p less than 0.0001) and 49% subsequently (p less than 0.0001). the estimated risk of death in the absence of infarction was nearly identical regardless of treatment (p = 0.75). exclusion of perioperative infarctions did not alter the findings. conclusions. although surgery does not reduce the incidence of myocardial infarction overall, it does reduce the risk of mortality after infarction, particularly in the first 30 days after the event (fatal infarctions).
effect of thiazide on rates of bone mineral loss: a longitudinal study [published erratum appears in bmj 1991 jan 26;302(6770):18] objective--to determine the effect of thiazide diuretic drugs on rates of bone mineral loss. design--longitudinal, observational study with a mean follow up of five years. setting--hawaii osteoporosis center, honolulu. subjects--1017 japanese-american men born between 1900 and 1920, of whom 378 were treated for hypertension (study group) and 639 did not have hypertension (control group). intervention--thiazide diuretics were taken by 325 men for a mean of 11.9 years; 53 men took antihypertensive drugs other than thiazides. main outcome measure--rate of bone loss estimated from serial photon absorptiometric scanning at three skeletal sites (calcaneus, distal radius, and proximal radius). results--rates of bone loss at all three sites were significantly reduced among thiazide users when compared with controls. the reductions in loss rate ranged from 28.8% (p = 0.02) (distal radius) to 49.2% (p = 0.0005) (calcaneus) relative to the controls. at all three sites the men taking other antihypertensive drugs had faster loss rates (22.6-43.1%) than those of the controls but the difference was significant only for the distal radius. conclusion--thiazide diuretics slow the rate of bone loss in elderly men.
polytetrafluoroethylene graft for spontaneous coronary dissection: 7-year follow-up. spontaneous coronary artery dissection remains an exceedingly rare cause of myocardial ischemia. the patients are usually young and female, and the dissection is frequently fatal. the use of polytetrafluoroethylene as an aortocoronary conduit is generally followed by early occlusion. we report a case of spontaneous right coronary dissection in which a polytetrafluoroethylene graft was placed that was observed to remain patent by angiography at least 72 months after operation.
cystic mesothelioma of peritoneum: occurrence in a man. we report a case of cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum in a 54-year-old man in whom cystic masses were removed twice by surgery at an interval of 2 years. the patient died of cardiac arrest shortly after the second operation for a concurrent unresectable colonic cancer. the pathogenesis of the disease is uncertain, but we consider it neoplastic of low grade malignancy.
cancer in relatives of survivors of childhood sarcoma. relatives of 88 long-term survivors of childhood sarcoma were examined for the familial cancer syndrome of sarcoma, breast cancer, and other neoplasms (li-fraumeni syndrome). twenty-six of 402 close relatives developed cancer (expected, 23.8), including breast cancer in four mothers (expected, 3.1). two sarcoma probands who developed second malignant tumors have multiple relatives with cancer and might have an inherited predisposition. an increased cancer risk and exceptional requirement for disease screening appear to be confined to first-degree relatives of a small fraction of children with sarcoma, notably probands with second cancers.
development of the hip in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. natural history and susceptibility to premature osteoarthritis. we have determined the natural history of hip development in 42 patients with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (med). premature osteoarthritis was a frequent outcome and was almost inevitable before the age of 30 years in those with incongruent hips. there were two types of immature hips: type i, the more severe form, had a fragmented and flattened ossific nucleus and acetabular dysplasia, was misshapen at skeletal maturity and osteoarthritic by 30 years of age; the milder type ii hip had a small, rounded, uniformly ossified nucleus and a more normal acetabulum. type ii hips were well formed at maturity and were less prone to premature osteoarthritis. considerable variations were noted in the manifestations of med between families but not within families. the prognosis of a child's hip could be predicted; in sporadic cases from the type of immature hip, and in familial cases by also taking into account the outcome of affected relatives.
an assessment and care planning strategy for nursing home residents with dementia. dementia is extremely common among nursing home patients, and it takes many forms. accurate assessment by staff is crucial in providing appropriate care to these patients. equally important is the ability to establish care priorities. current staging models are so general, however, that their usefulness is limited. thus, this paper proposes a strategy that, using basic assessment data, categorizes dementia residents according to four key determinants of care needs: activities of daily living status, behavioral problems, communication abilities, and physical transition.
clinical experience with the palmaz-schatz coronary stent. initial results of a multicenter study. stenting of native coronary arteries with a balloon-expandable stent was attempted in 226 patients after elective angioplasty. delivery of the device was successful in 213 (94%) of the patients. of these, 39 received aspirin and dipyridamole only (group 1) and 174 received aspirin, dipyridamole, and warfarin for 1-3 months (group 2). there was no abrupt closure (less than or equal to 1 day) or perioperative death in either group. in-hospital or perioperative complications in group 1 compared with group 2 were as follows: subacute closure (1-14 days), seven (18%) patients versus one (0.6%) patient, respectively, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction, five (13%) patients versus one (0.6%) patient, respectively; condition requiring urgent bypass surgery, one (2.5%) patient versus no patients, respectively. thus, the incidence of major complications such as death, myocardial infarction, or a condition requiring urgent bypass surgery was 15% in group 1 and 0.6% in group 2. clinical follow-up revealed that 92% of the patients were asymptomatic at 3 months after stenting compared with 6% before stenting (p less than 0.0001). of the 13 patients who were symptomatic, nine underwent cardiac catheterization and, ultimately, successful elective coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery. we conclude that a high delivery success rate can be expected with this device and that clinical thrombosis is less frequent in anticoagulated patients than in nonanticoagulated patients. furthermore, in this selected patient population, coronary stenting results in a low incidence of in-hospital and perioperative complications. clinical success, defined by absence of symptoms, appears to be sustained at 3 months.
giant lymph node hyperplasia of the lung (castleman's disease) associated with recurrent pleural effusion. a case of giant lymph node hyperplasia (castleman's disease) of the lung presented with pleural effusion (which was recurrent), an unusual complication. the patient was treated with pneumonectomy and has survived for three years without relapse. this is the first report of the disease from black africa.
randomized comparison of routine vs highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring to investigate high risk pregnancies objective--to compare routine versus highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring in higher risk pregnancy. design--a pragmatic randomized trial. setting--st james's university hospital, leeds. subjects--500 pregnant women at high risk of intrauterine growth retardation or still birth. interventions--regular monitoring with biophysical profile assessment and doppler velocity waveform recording in umbilical and uteroplacental arteries. results immediately available to clinicians. main outcome measures--gestational age at delivery, obstetric intervention rates and short-term neonatal morbidity. results--risk factors were distributed very evenly between the 250 patients in the study and control groups respectively. a total of 902 biophysical profile and doppler assessments were done in the 250 study group patients and only in 12 patients in the control group. in the study group, absent end-diastolic flow was found in only 2.7% of all 902 measurements. a persistently abnormal biophysical score was always associated with absence of end-diastolic flow. the mean gestational age at induction of labour was statistically and clinically similar in the two groups and there was no overall statistically significant difference in intervention rates between the two groups. there was a statistically significant lower frequency of depressed 5-min apgar scores in the study group. serious neonatal morbidity was also statistically significantly more common in the control group than in the study group. conclusions--the use of doppler ultrasound in higher risk pregnancies does not lead to an increase in iatrogenic preterm delivery. the total rate of positive tests on doppler ultrasound is very low and persistently abnormal biophysical scores are unlikely to be found in patients where umbilical end-diastolic blood flow is present. surrogate measures for fetal damage seem to be improved when clinicians have access to doppler ultrasound assessments.
quantification of rate of coronary artery disease progression by a new method of angiographic analysis. to assess the rate and variability of atherostenosis progression in patients with coronary artery disease at baseline angiography, we used a simplified quantitative method of analysis to study single angiograms in 54 patients and paired angiograms in 29 patients. all discrete lesions were identified, then traced and digitized to determine lumen diameter (ld), and summed to give the total ld; the differences in ld for paired angiograms were summed to give total stenosis change (tsc). the following results were obtained: correlation between ld measured by our method and ld determined by the brown/dodge method was excellent (r = 0.99, n = 54). there also was a high correlation between interobserver (r = 0.98, n = 54) and intraobserver (r = 0.99, n = 54) findings. short-term tsc (n = 9, angiograms paired at less than 1 week) was negligible (0.03 +/- 0.38 mm). long-term (n = 20, angiograms paired at 0.6 to 4.3 years) total ld differed significantly from baseline total ld (4.1 +/- 2.5 mm vs 6.0 +/- 3 mm; p less than 0.001), and tsc (2.0 +/- 1.3 mm) in long-term patients differed significantly from tsc in short-term patients (p less than 0.001). these results show that true coronary disease progression occurring over 1 to 4 years can be distinguished from intraobserver, interobserver, and interstudy variability by means of a simplified method and provide approximate rates and variability of progression. these results will be useful for power calculations in therapeutic trials aimed at slowing progression. further prospective studies with the use of this method appear indicated.
development and prospective application of quantitative 2-day stress-rest tc-99m methoxy isobutyl isonitrile spect for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. the clinical diagnostic accuracy of 2-day stress/rest quantitative technetium-99m (tc-99m) methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile (tc-sestamibi) single photon emission computerized tomography (spect) was assessed in a validation population of 61 patients from two different sites using two different camera/computer systems. the study population was made up of 53 catheterized patients, 29 from cedars-sinai medical center (csmc) and 24 from the university of texas southwestern medical center (utsmc), and eight utsmc patients with a less than 5% pre-test likelihood of coronary artery disease. interpretation employed gender-specific normal limits developed in an additional 15 men and 8 women at csmc with less than a 5% likelihood of significant coronary artery disease. the results from csmc compared with those from utsmc were not different from each other. the overall sensitivity for detection of patients with coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) was 94% (csmc: 92%, utsmc: 95%). overall specificity in the five patients with normal coronary arteriograms was 80% (csmc: 67%, utsmc: 100%). the normalcy rate in patients with a low likelihood of coronary artery disease was 88%. vessel sensitivity was 85% (csmc: 84%, utsmc: 85%), while vessel specificity was 71% (csmc: 72%, utsmc: 69%). there was also no significant difference in the sensitivities and specificities between male and female populations. in addition, the agreement with coronary angiography for assessment of disease extent (normal coronary arteriogram, single or multivessel disease) was 75% (kappa = 0.6 +/- 0.1). this study demonstrated that tc-sestamibi spect by quantitative analysis is accurate for the detection and localization of coronary artery disease. furthermore, the csmc quantitative method was shown to provide similar diagnostic accuracy when applied to data acquired at a different site using a different camera/computer system.
assessment of stable ischemic heart disease. which tests are best for which patients? an understanding of the importance of various risk factors, the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia, and the appropriate use of various noninvasive and invasive tests is essential for management of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (cad). although coronary angiography remains the "gold standard" for diagnosis of cad, much of the data obtained from risk factor assessment, medical history, and various noninvasive tests provides information that may be even more important than cardiac catheterization data alone for defining prognosis and directing management.
hypertension in hispanics, asians and pacific-islanders, and native americans. there is a paucity of information about hypertension and its risk factors, prevalence, morbidity, and mortality in many racial minorities in the united states. most of the population groups discussed in this section are composed of several subgroups that differ culturally, socioeconomically, educationally, and ethnically. this fact, however, does not lessen the need for more information about the extent of hypertension and risk factors in these groups. moreover, a bonus from expanded research in these areas will be new information useful to the general population.
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities. current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist. placental vascular lesions, placental tumors, and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management. an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location, size, echogenicity, and number is proposed. repeated ultrasonographic examination, together with biologic investigations, is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance.
multiple orbital tumors were cavernous hemangiomas. two distinct masses in the left orbit were incidentally found in a 48-year-old woman during a computed tomographic scan done to evaluate neurologic complaints. initial diagnostic considerations focused on a lymphoproliferative disorder or other systemic disease. orbitotomy revealed two discrete tumors, both cavernous hemangiomas. although uncommon, cavernous hemangioma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the patient with multiple orbital lesions.
long-term follow-up comparing subclavian flap angioplasty to resection with modified oblique end-to-end anastomosis the definitive surgical procedure for correction of aortic coarctation remains controversial. therefore, we retrospectively reviewed a total of 56 children under 4 years of age with coarctation repair between 1977 and 1986. thirty-four had the subclavian flap angioplasty technique and 22 had resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis. the group was further subdivided to include only the 23 infants less than 3 months of age--eight infants with resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis (less than or equal to 3ete) and 15 infants with subclavian flap angioplasty (greater than or equal to 3sfa). the remaining 33 patients older than 3 months of age were divided into 14 patients with resection and oblique end-to-end anastomosis (greater than 3ete) and 19 patients with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique (greater than 3sfa). the overall mortality was not significantly different between techniques. postoperative hypertension was significantly more prevalent with end-to-end anastomosis than with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique (p less than 0.01). seven patients had recurrent coarctation. the 6-year actuarial freedom from recoarctation was 93% +/- 6% in the less than or equal to 3sfa group compared with 53% +/- 20% in the less than or equal to 3ete group (p less than 0.02), but there was no significant difference in those children operated on at a later age regarding the type of coarctation repair. therefore, we recommend subclavian flap angioplasty in patients less than 3 months of age. in those older than 3 months either procedure is safe and the risk of recoarctation is similar.
magnetic resonance imaging in the preoperative evaluation of cervical radiculopathy. forty patients with cervical radiculopathy were examined preoperatively with magnetic resonance imaging (mri). mri was used alone in 27 (68%) of the 40 patients; the remainder also had computed tomography in conjunction with myelography. the primary criterion on mri for a clinically significant lesion was asymmetrical narrowing of the subarachnoid space in the region of the nerve root. surgical confirmation of the abnormality was obtained in all 40 cases. the operative findings were a herniated nucleus pulposus (32 of 40 patients), spondylosis (2 of 40 patients), or a combination of the two (6 of 40 patients). mri identified a surgical lesion (herniated nucleus pulposus, spondylosis, or both) in 37 of the 40 (92%) patients. we think mri is the only preoperative imaging examination necessary in most cases of cervical radiculopathy.
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas. benign pituitary adenomas are among the most common neurosurgical tumors and account for a diversity of clinical syndromes due to their hormone content and release. to determine whether these tumors arise from a single cell or multiple cells, the authors studied x chromosome inactivation in deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) isolated from pituitary adenomas in women. tumors of three different hormonal subtypes were examined. one tumor contained cells immunoreactive for prolactin and human growth hormone; one tumor contained foci immunoreactive for the beta-subunits of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone; and the third tumor had no immunoreactive prolactin, human growth hormone, beta-subunits of thyroid-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, or follicle-stimulating hormone, or the alpha-subunit. analysis of the dna revealed that, in each of the three pituitary tumors, one x chromosome was active in all cells and one x chromosome was inactive, indicating that each of these tumors was monoclonal in origin. it is concluded that clinically evident pituitary tumors arise from a genetic mutation in a single cell.
total hip arthroplasty in ankylosing spondylitis. total hip arthroplasty was performed on 29 hips in 19 patients diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis over a 13-year period. the results were analyzed retrospectively with an average follow-up period of more than four years. complete pain relief was achieved in 97%, and significant gains were made in ambulatory capacity. the limited gains in total range of motion (average improvement 75 degrees) were felt to be primarily due to the high incidence of brooker class iii and iv myositis ossificans (23%) and long-standing soft tissue contractures.
toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and hepatic granulomas. a 71-yr-old male presented with a 2-month history of fever, malaise, and weight loss. physical exam revealed chorioretinitis. laboratory studies were notable for elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, aspartate transaminase, and alanine transaminase. immunoglobulin g antibody to toxoplasma gondii was positive to a dilution of 1:4096, whereas serologic studies for hepatitis a virus, hepatitis b virus, cytomegalovirus, epstein-barr virus, human immunodeficiency virus, brucella, and tularemia were negative. a percutaneous biopsy of the liver revealed hepatic granulomas. culture of the biopsy specimen was negative for growth of mycobacteria or fungi. spontaneous improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters occurred over a 4-month period.
electrocardiographic body surface potential mapping in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. noninvasive determination of the ventricular insertion sites of accessory atrioventricular connections. background. a reliable, noninvasive procedure to determine the location of accessory atrioventricular connections in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome would add an important diagnostic tool to the clinical armamentarium. methods and results. body surface potential mapping (bspm) using 180 electrodes in various-sized vests and displayed as a calibrated color map was used to determine the ventricular insertion site of the accessory atrioventricular (av) connections in 34 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. attempts were made to determine the 17 ventricular insertion sites described by guiraudon et al. all 34 patients had an electrophysiologic study (eps) at cardiac catheterization, and 18 had surgery so the ventricular insertion sites could be accurately located using eps at surgery. a number of physiologic observations were also made with bspm. conclusions. the following conclusions were drawn: 1) bspm using qrs analysis accurately predicts the ventricular insertion site of accessory av connections in the presence of a delta wave in the electrocardiogram; 2) the ventricular insertion sites of accessory av connections determined by bspm and by eps at surgery were identical or within one mapping site (1.5 cm or less) in all but four of 18 cases; three of the four exceptions had more than one accessory av connection, and the other had a very broad ventricular insertion; 3) bspm and eps locations of the accessory av connections correlated very well in the 34 cases despite the fact that bspm determines the ventricular insertion site and eps determines the atrial insertion site of the accessory av connection; 4) as suggested by the three cases of multiple accessory av connections, eps and bspm may be complementary since bspm identified one pathway and eps identified the other (in the case with a broad ventricular insertion, bspm and eps demonstrated different proportions of that insertion); 5) bspm using st-t analysis is very much less accurate in predicting the ventricular insertion site of accessory av connections unless there is marked preexcitation; 6) standard electrocardiography using the gallagher grid methodology (but with no attempt at stimulating maximal preexcitation) was not as accurate as qrs analysis of bspm in predicting the ventricular insertion site of the accessory av connection; however, exact comparison is hampered by the different number and size of the gallagher and guiraudon insertion sites; 7) bspm using qrs analysis appears to be very accurate in predicting right ventricular versus left ventricular posteroseptal accessory av connections; 8) typical epicardial right ventricular breakthrough, indicative of conduction via the specialized av conduction system, occurs in all patients with left ventricular free wall accessory av connections; 9) epicardial right ventricular breakthrough was not observed in cases with right ventricular free wall or anteroseptal accessory av connections; 10) epicardial right ventricular breakthrough can occur in the presence of posteroseptal accessory av connections, whether right or left ventricular; and 11) the delay in epicardial right ventricular breakthrough in cases with left ventricular insertion may provide a marker to estimate the degree of ventricular preexcitation.
the beta-type transforming growth factor. mediators of cell regulation in the lung. an increased interest in the role of growth factors in the regulation of processes concerning normal and pathologic lung physiology has spurred a flurry of research in this area. peptide growth factors are known to control not only cell proliferation but other events such as differentiation, chemotaxis, and matrix deposition as well. the transforming growth factor beta (tgf beta) family of regulatory peptides serves as a prime example to illustrate the multiplicity of effects elicited by peptide growth factors in various lung-derived cell types. at present, the tgf beta family consists of at least 17 proteins and, based on sequence analysis, they can be divided into two groups: a cluster that shows very high sequence similarity to tgf beta 1, the closely related group, and a cluster that shows weaker sequence similarity to tgf beta 1, the distantly related group. the purpose of this brief review is to summarize the salient features of tgf beta structure and regulatory abilities of the closely related group. in addition, we will outline the evidence suggesting a role for tgf beta in normal lung development and physiology. emphasis will be placed on studies with the closely related members tgf beta 1 and tgf beta 2 because, until recently, purified protein was available only for these two proteins.
airway inflammation during late asthmatic reactions induced by toluene diisocyanate. to determine the importance of airway inflammation for the development of late asthmatic reactions, we examined sensitized subjects during late asthmatic reactions induced by exposure to toluene diisocyanate (tdi) in the laboratory. late asthmatic reactions are associated with a transient increase of bronchial responsiveness and, at the same time, with an increase of neutrophils followed by eosinophils, and of ltb4 and albumin in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. late asthmatic reactions, increased bronchial responsiveness, and increase of neutrophils, eosinophils, ltb4, and albumin concentration in bronchoalveolar lavage induced by exposure to tdi are all prevented by pretreatment with prednisone but not with the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent indomethacin. aerosolized steroids (beclomethasone and dexamethasone isonicotinate) completely inhibit late asthmatic reactions induced by tdi, whereas theophylline has a partial, and verapamil, ketotifen, and cromolyn have no protective effect. these results suggest that late asthmatic reactions induced by tdi may be caused by airway inflammation, and that anti-inflammatory steroids should be recommended in the prophylaxis of tdi asthma.
the effect of nightly nasal cpap treatment on underlying obstructive sleep apnea and pharyngeal size. nasal continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is an effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (osa). it is usually prescribed for nightly use; however, recent studies show that patients often do not wear the appliance consistently. previous studies have also suggested that nasal cpap may improve a patient's underlying osa even when the mask is not in place. we investigated 12 men with osa to see if nasal cpap used nightly for six weeks would improve their underlying sleep-disordered breathing. we also studied pharyngeal volumes measured using magnetic resonance imaging and a computer-controlled digitizing pad. patients with more severe osa had improvement after six weeks; however, they still demonstrated significant osa. patients with less severe osa did not have significant change. we were unable to show a significant difference in any patient's awake pharyngeal volumes. we conclude that patients with osa should be encouraged to wear their nasal cpap machines regularly.
postural hypotension: pressor effect of octreotide not mediated by norepinephrine. orthostatic hypotension of the shy-drager syndrome is a chronic incapacitating condition characterized by lack of an appropriate increase in the plasma norepinephrine level in response to standing. recently, the somatostatin analogue octreotide has been reported to induce a pressor response in patients having this syndrome. we have reported a case of shy-drager syndrome in which octreotide was effective, but the rise in blood pressure was not accompanied by an increase in the plasma norepinephrine level. hence, the pressor effect of octreotide is not mediated by stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system, but probably through splanchnic vasoconstriction.
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma. severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma. thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma, of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms, were studied serologically. four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay. antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility, nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction (n = 8), ovarian cancer (n = 20), or epilepsy (n = 4) or in normal subjects (n = 9). in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction, antibodies in highly diluted serum (1:4000-1:8000) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut. this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis. from a clinical standpoint, serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma, thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor.
prostacyclin and acetylcholine as screening agents for acute pulmonary vasodilator responsiveness in primary pulmonary hypertension. epoprostenol sodium (prostacyclin) administered intravenously is considered the standard for assessing the ability of the pulmonary circulation to vasodilate. at present, epoprostenol sodium is an investigational drug that has limited availability. in contrast, acetylcholine, also a pulmonary vasodilator, is readily available. therefore, we assessed the feasibility of using acetylcholine as an alternative to prostacyclin in testing for the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature to vasodilate. twenty-three patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary arterial pressure, 58.5 +/- 13.4 mm hg) received incremental infusions of prostacyclin and acetylcholine to predetermined maximal infusion rates as part of a battery of vasodilator agents administered according to standard protocols (mean, 5.4 +/- 1.2 agents/patient; range, 3-8 agents/patient); the administration of the different agents was timed to avoid synergistic effects. of all the agents tested, prostacyclin and acetylcholine were most consistently effective in evoking acute pulmonary vasodilation, and both seemed to distinguish patients capable of manifesting acute pulmonary vasodilation from those who were not. however, at maximal doses set by protocol, prostacyclin generally elicited a greater vasodilator response than acetylcholine. the difference in magnitude of response may have been due to use of prescribed dosages of acetylcholine that were submaximal. in other respects, the two agents were similar; both were equally well-tolerated, and side effects were mild and resolved rapidly when the vasodilator infusions were stopped. we conclude that in the majority of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, acetylcholine appears to be an effective and available substitute for prostacyclin in screening for pulmonary vasodilator responsiveness.
long-term results of surgical resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. this study was undertaken to review the long-term results of multivisceral resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. between 1964 and 1980, 1042 patients underwent exploratory surgery for colorectal cancer. of these, 58 patients (5.5%) underwent curative multivisceral resection for suspected contiguous invasion by the primary tumor. follow-up was complete for all patients. the primary tumors were located in the rectum (38 patients), sigmoid (9 patients), left colon (6 patients), and right colon (5 patients). en bloc resection of other viscera included uterus, adnexa, bladder, vagina, small intestine, abdominal wall, liver, stomach, kidney, and ureter. the operative morbidity and mortality rates were 31% and 1.7%, respectively. resection margins were free of tumor in 54 patients. in the four patients with tumor-positive resection margins, recurrence of disease was evident between 8 and 22 weeks after surgery (mean survival time, 8.2 months). carcinomatous invasion of the resected contiguous organ was confirmed in 49 patients (84%). the mean survival time for patients without lymph node metastases was 100.7 months, but it was only 16.2 months (p less than 0.01) for patients with lymph node metastases. actuarial 5-year disease-free survival rate for patients without lymph node metastases was 76% (36 of 47 patients). none of the patients (0 of 11) with lymph node metastases survived for 5 years. three of 36 of the 5-year survivors experienced recurrence of disease before the seventh postoperative year; no cancer-related deaths occurred between 7 and 25 years. these data suggest that survival in locally advanced colorectal carcinoma is more dependent on lymph node status than on the extent of local invasion. effective disease control associated with survival in the long term can be achieved by multivisceral resection.
congenital demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy with focally folded myelin sheaths. six patients (5 index cases and 1 sib) with a congenital motor and sensory neuropathy are described. the clinical, genetic and electrophysiological features resembled dejerine-sottas disease or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (hmsn) type iii. sural nerve biopsy of 5 patients revealed segmental demyelination and remyelination with hypertrophic changes, although onion bulbs were not as ubiquitous as in classical hmsn type iii. a striking discriminating feature from hmsn type iii was an abundance of focal myelin thickenings (tomacula) present in nearly all teased fibres. possible pathogenic implications are discussed. these cases corroborate the heterogeneity of congenital motor and sensory neuropathies.
substance abuse-related spontaneous bladder rupture: report of 2 cases and review of the literature. spontaneous rupture of the normal bladder associated with alcohol abuse is rare, with only 20 cases reported in the english literature to which we add 2 cases. heavy alcohol ingestion predisposes the bladder to rupture by the large volume of fluid intake, its diuretic effect and the mental obtusion it produces, clouding sensory cues to void. alpha-sympathomimetic drugs, such as cocaine and methamphetamine, increase the resistance at the urethral sphincter and exacerbate the effects of alcohol. cystography will be diagnostic, and prompt operative repair of intraperitoneal rupture is mandatory. complete evaluation of the bladder, including urodynamic study, is important to eliminate underlying bladder pathological conditions. substance abuse-related rupture demonstrates a typical constellation of clinical features that necessitate considering it a syndrome separate from other causes of spontaneous bladder rupture.
recurrent peripheral facial nerve palsy after dental procedures. peripheral facial palsy is an uncommon complication of dental procedures. most cases begin immediately after dental anesthesia and resolve within 12 hours. no report of recurrent facial palsy with dental manipulations has previously been described. we report a patient with two episodes of peripheral facial palsy, 2 years apart, developing within 24 hours of dental procedures. a third episode of contralateral facial weakness developed 3 years after the second event. this event was not related to dental manipulations. although the exact mechanism is not known, dental manipulations may rarely result in precipitation of recurrent bell's palsy.
influence of mental stress on ventricular pump function in postinfarction patients. an invasive hemodynamic investigation. to assess the influence of mental stress on ventricular pump function in coronary patients, 88 postinfarction patients (mean age, 53 +/- 10 years) performed mental arithmetic during swan-ganz catheterization monitoring a mean of 44 +/- 16 days after myocardial infarction. the test lasted 3 minutes in 66 patients and 10 minutes in 22 patients. two patients suffered acute pulmonary edema a few minutes after mental arithmetic, but no others complained of symptoms. mean heart rate increased from 76 +/- 14 to 92 +/- 17 beats/min, mean systolic blood pressure increased from 138 +/- 22 to 160 +/- 27 mm hg, mean diastolic blood pressure increased from 89 +/- 10 to 101 +/- 15 mm hg, mean pulmonary wedge pressure increased from 13 +/- 6 to 19 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than 0.001), and mean stroke volume decreased from 72 +/- 18 to 65 +/- 18 ml (p less than 0.001) during mental arithmetic. the changes in central hemodynamics during mental arithmetic were not predictable from noninvasive parameters. in the 22 patients who performed 10-minute mental arithmetic, the changes persisted throughout mental exercise. eighty-one patients underwent supine bicycle ergometry after mental arithmetic: absolute mental arithmetic-pulmonary wedge pressure values correlated with those during exercise at the first stage (25 w) (r = 0.63, p less than 0.001) and at maximal load (77 +/- 29 w) (r = 0.49, p less than 0.001), and pulmonary wedge pressure change between stress values and baseline during mental arithmetic did not correlate with those during the first stage of exercise (r = 0.09, p = ns) or during maximal load (r = 0.11, p = ns). twenty-nine patients repeated the study 1 year after myocardial infarction, and the same hemodynamic changes were observed during mental arithmetic. in conclusion, it appears that mental stress can cause deteriorations of central hemodynamics that can be independent of changes in heart rate and blood pressure and are not predictable from exercise-induced changes; stress-induced cardiovascular activation can last for at least 10 minutes and is stable over long time periods.
the accuracy of predictions about progress of patients on a stroke unit. the aim of the study was to check the accuracy of predictions about the factors which affect the progress, in physical abilities and activities of daily living, of patients admitted to a stroke unit. a series of 60 patients admitted consecutively to a stroke unit were assessed on tests of motor, functional and cognitive abilities at admission. on the basis of these assessments predictions were made about the abilities of the patients at discharge. patients were assessed for level of motor abilities and activities of daily living at discharge and the accuracy of the predictions checked. predictions were found to be significantly correlated with outcome but the relationships were not so close as to be useful for the clinical management of individual patients.
an empirical study of diagnostic criteria for delirium. objective: the objective of this study was to determine empirically how many patients are identified as delirious or nondelirious according to dms-iii, dms-iii-r, and icd-10 criteria. method: daily, a trained research assistant using a structured instrument to detect the presence of symptoms of delirium evaluated 325 elderly patients who were admitted to a general hospital for acute medical problems. each patient's symptoms were then compared with these diagnostic criteria sets to determine if the patient met criteria for delirium. results: dsm-iii criteria were the most inclusive: they identified 125 patients as delirious. dsm-iii-r identified a somewhat different group of 106 patients as delirious. icd-10 criteria identified only 30 patients as delirious. conclusions: the development of new criteria for delirium (e.g., dsm-iv) will have to balance the need to define a pure group of patients for research purposes with the need to include cases of clinical interest. changes in criteria should be based on data such as those presented in this paper.
relation of central obesity and insulin resistance with high diabetes prevalence and cardiovascular risk in south asians. the hypothesis that the high mortality from coronary heart disease (chd) in south asians settled overseas compared with other populations is due to metabolic disturbances related to insulin resistance was tested in a population survey of 3193 men and 561 women aged 40-69 years in london, uk. the sample was assembled from industrial workforces and general practitioners' lists. in comparison with the european group, the south asian group had a higher prevalence of diabetes (19% vs 4%), higher blood pressures, higher fasting and post-glucose serum insulin concentrations, higher plasma triglyceride, and lower hdl cholesterol concentrations. mean waist-hip girth ratios and trunk skinfolds were higher in the south asian than in the european group. within each ethnic group waist-hip ratio was correlated with glucose intolerance, insulin, blood pressure, and triglyceride. these results confirm the existence of an insulin resistance syndrome, prevalent in south asian populations and associated with a pronounced tendency to central obesity in this group. control of obesity and greater physical activity offer the best chances for prevention of diabetes and chd in south asian people.
cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy. cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented. the authors measured cerebral blood flow (cbf) and metabolic rate for oxygen (cmro2) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure (three to five organs). they found that cbf and cmro2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 +/- 2 to 28 +/- 3 ml/100g/min (mean +/- sem) and 3.1 +/- 0.2 to 1.2 +/- 0.2 ml/100g/min, respectively. cerebral vascular resistance (cvr) and cerebral circulatory index (cci:cbf/cmro2) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 +/- 0.1 to 3.0 +/- 0.4 mm hg/ml/100g/min and 15.1 +/- 0.8 to 24.2 +/- 3.3, respectively. at the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements, their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the glasgow coma scale. the electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients. computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy. it is concluded that cbf and cmro2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the cns and decreased electrical activity.
multicenter trial of l-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients. ii. clinical and biochemical effects. since carnitine deficiency has been reported in some patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis, we studied the effects of intravenous infusion of l-carnitine or placebo at the end of each dialysis treatment. the trial, which lasted seven months (one month baseline, 6 months treatment) was multicenter, double blind, placebo controlled, and randomized. eighty-two long-term hemodialysis patients, who were given either carnitine (n = 38) or placebo (n = 44), completed this study. in each group, clinical and biochemical parameters during treatment were compared with baseline values. intra-dialytic hypotension and muscle cramps were reduced only in the carnitine treated group, while improvement in post-dialysis asthenia was noticed in both carnitine and placebo groups. maximal oxygen consumption, measured during a progressive work exercise test, improved significantly in the carnitine group (111 +/- 50 ml/min. p less than 0.03) and was unchanged in the placebo group. l-carnitine treatment was associated with a significant drop in pre-dialysis concentrations of serum urea nitrogen, creatinine and phosphorus (means +/- sem, 101 +/- 4.5 to 84 +/- 3.9, 16.7 +/- 0.67 to 14.7 +/- 0.64, and 6.4 +/- 0.3 to 5.5 +/- 0.4 mg/dl, respectively, p less than 0.004). no significant changes in any of these variables were noticed in the placebo group. mid-arm circumference and triceps skinfold thickness were measured in 11 carnitine and 13 placebo treated patients. calculated mid-arm muscle area increased in the carnitine patients (41.37 +/- 2.68 to 45.6 +/- 2.82 cm2, p = 0.05) and remained unchanged in the placebo patients.
cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy resulting in renal allograft loss and its successful reuse: a report of two cases. cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy is a rare complication of renal transplantation. it commonly leads to graft loss. the mechanism of this entity is unknown. factors intrinsic to the donor kidney appear to play an important role. we describe two cases of renal transplant patients who lost their first grafts secondary to cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy. these patients were successfully retransplanted with an immunosuppressive protocol that included long-term cyclosporine. we conclude that graft loss from this entity is not a contraindication to subsequent successful transplantation with cyclosporine.
do you have patients with anorexia or bulimia? understanding is the first step in helping. anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa have, in recent years, become disorders of major concern. young women are particularly prone to such eating disorders, and substantial numbers have involved themselves in the practices that identify these problems. understanding the thinking behind these disorders is helpful in recognizing them and developing a treatment approach. the most effective medication for bulimia reported to date is fluoxetine hydrochloride (prozac). the concurrent participation of a physician, nutritionist, and family therapist in the care of these patients is ideal.
treatment of alopecia areata with diphenylcyclopropenone. one hundred thirty-nine patients with severe alopecia areata (the majority with the subtotal, total, or universalis type) were treated with topical immunotherapy (diphenylcyclopropenone). patients were initially treated unilaterally; the other side of the scalp served as a control. in 50.4% of the patients the response was either excellent (total regrowth) or satisfactory (subtotal regrowth with only a few remaining bald patches). the most frequent side effects were eczematous reactions with blistering, spreading of the induced contact eczema, and sleep disturbances.
prevalence of unsuspected mitral regurgitation and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema associated with normal or depressed left ventricular systolic function. to define the prevalence and role of left ventricular (lv) systolic dysfunction, lv diastolic dysfunction and mitral regurgitation (mr) in patients with acute pulmonary edema, 40 patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema were prospectively evaluated within 36 hours of presentation. lv ejection fraction and 3 parameters of lv diastolic function were measured with radionuclide ventriculography, whereas mr was assessed with doppler echocardiography. lv ejection fraction was normal in 11 (27%) and depressed in 29 (73%) patients. moderate or severe mr without lv diastolic dysfunction was common and equally prevalent in patients with and without lv systolic dysfunction (33 vs 38%; difference not significant). diastolic dysfunction without mr was less frequent but equally prevalent in patients with and without systolic dysfunction (17 vs 27%; difference not significant). two (18%) of 11 patients without and 12 (33%) of 36 patients with lv systolic dysfunction had both mr and lv diastolic dysfunction. furthermore, mr was clinically silent and unsuspected in two-thirds of all patients with mr, regardless of a normal or depressed systolic function. these data show that there is a high prevalence of unrecognized moderate to severe mr in patients with acute pulmonary edema, regardless of the presence or absence of lv systolic dysfunction. furthermore, the prevalence of lv diastolic dysfunction without mr is relatively low even in patients with normal lv systolic function and pulmonary edema. thus, unrecognized mr may be an important contributor to the syndrome of acute pulmonary edema in patients with normal or depressed lv systolic function.
contribution of the band 3-ankyrin interaction to erythrocyte membrane mechanical stability. in an effort to evaluate the role of the band 3-ankyrin linkage in maintenance of red blood cell membrane integrity, solution conditions were sought that would selectively dissociate the band 3-ankyrin linkage, leaving other membrane skeletal interactions intact. for this purpose erythrocytes were equilibrated overnight in nutrient-containing buffers at a range of elevated phs and then examined for changes in mechanical stability and membrane skeletal composition. band 3 was found to be released from interaction with the membrane skeleton over a ph range (8.4 to 9.5) that was observed to dissociate the band 3-ankyrin interaction in vitro. in contrast, all other membrane skeletal associations appeared to remain intact up to ph 9.3, after which they were also seen to dissociate. whereas hemolysis of mechanically unstressed cells did not begin until approximately ph 9.3, where the membrane skeletons began to disintegrate, enhanced fragmentation of shear stressed membranes was seen to begin near ph 8, where band 3 dissociation was first observed. furthermore, the shear-induced fragmentation rate was found to reach a maximum at ph 9.4, ie, where band 3 dissociation was essentially complete. based on these correlations, we hypothesize that the band 3-ankyrin linkage of the membrane skeleton to the lipid bilayer is essential for red blood cell stability in the face of mechanical distortion but not for cellular integrity in the absence of mechanical stress.
results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy. the results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical, radiographic, and isokinetic strength-testing criteria. forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied. in the extremity that had been operated on, the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent, the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent, and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity. the over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients, good in eleven, fair in six, and poor in three. there was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome. the results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures.
effacement of glomerular foot processes in kwashiorkor. in a study of the pathogenesis of the oedema of kwashiorkor the ultrastructure of the kidneys from 6 children was examined shortly after they died from oedematous malnutrition. there was a generalised effacement of the glomerular epithelial cells onto the basement membrane. the filtration slits that remained were narrowed. the picture was similar to that seen in minimal-change nephrotic syndrome--but none of the children had albuminuria. the degree of effacement was statistically related to treatment with gentamicin. the findings suggest that there is a defect in the anionic charge of the glomerular basement membrane in oedematous malnutrition, that the membrane charge is more easily neutralised by cations such as gentamicin, and that, because proteinuria is not a feature of oedematous malnutrition, the proteinuria in other conditions associated with glomerular epithelial cell effacement (eg, minimal-change nephrotic syndrome) is due to something more complex than simple loss of charge.
lateralized effects of subclinical epileptiform eeg discharges on scholastic performance in children. the interaction between lateralization of subclinical epileptiform discharges and cognitive tasks was investigated in 21 children (12 girls and 9 boys, mean age 10.6 years). seventeen had a diagnosis of epilepsy (partial or secondarily generalized). testing was by reading, arithmetic, and intelligence subtests during continuous telemetric eeg and video monitoring. children with left-sided discharges had significantly lower reading performance than children with right-sided discharges. during reading, epileptiform discharges occurred relatively less frequently and with a shorter total duration over the left hemisphere than the right. this supports the view that cognitive tasks suppress epileptiform discharges when they activate a region of the brain within the epileptogenic zone. discharges from other epileptogenic zones not directly activated by the tasks are increased, however.
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and anaphylactoid reactions to high-flux membrane dialysis in a retrospective study, 9 of 236 haemodialysis patients treated with high-flux polyacrylonitrile 'an 69' membranes were found to have had anaphylactoid reactions. treatment with angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ace) inhibitors had been recently started in all 9 affected patients; only 5 of 227 unaffected patients had been treated with ace inhibitors, and anaphylactoid reactions disappeared after discontinuation of ace inhibitors.
the influence of extracorporeal circulation on erythrocytes and flow properties of blood. the influence of extracorporeal circulation on red blood cells and flow properties of blood was studied in 10 patients undergoing aorta-coronary bypass grafting. blood samples were drawn on admission, under general anesthesia before the operation, during extracorporeal circulation, immediately after extracorporeal circulation, and 24 hours after extracorporeal circulation. echinocytes were found during and shortly after extracorporeal circulation, but disappeared within 24 hours. washing the cells in buffer restored the normal discocytic shape, which indicated that a plasma factor was responsible. red cell membrane lipids were not affected. analysis of the membrane proteins revealed a decrease of ankyrin after extracorporeal circulation, which was prevented by protease inhibitors during preparation. this suggests an increased proteolytic activity of the plasma after extracorporeal circulation. red cell deformability was not altered. plasma viscosity and hematocrit were markedly reduced by hemodilution with the priming solution. their low levels resulted in a low blood viscosity during extracorporeal circulation, which was even lower at 26 degrees c than before or after the operation at 37 degrees c. we conclude that the red cell is affected by extracorporeal circulation. the flow properties of blood, however, are not impaired, but are improved by hemodilution.
elevation of plasma neuropeptide y-like immunoreactivity and noradrenaline during myocardial ischaemia in man. plasma levels of neuropeptide y-like immunoreactivity (npy-li) and noradrenaline were studied for 25 h in 22 patients with acute ischaemic heart disease. on admission, npy-li levels were above normal in 16 patients, and 20 patients had increased noradrenaline levels. the initial plasma npy-li did not differ between patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami) and angina pectoris. initial plasma noradrenaline levels were higher in patients with ami than in those with angina pectoris. plasma levels of noradrenaline remained elevated in ami patients, but decreased towards normal values in patients with angina pectoris. levels of npy-li returned to normal within 25 h in all patients. tachycardia and left ventricular failure were related to high npy-li and noradrenaline levels. a positive correlation was found between noradrenaline and npy-li in plasma. it is suggested that neuropeptide y (npy), an endogenous vasoconstrictor peptide, should be considered as one of the mediators involved in the cardiovascular response to sympathetic activation induced by myocardial ischaemia.
vancomycin pharmacokinetics in hydrocephalic shunt prophylaxis and relationship to ventricular volume. vancomycin pharmacokinetics were determined in 25 patients receiving ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus. computed tomography scan-derived ventricular-brain ratio as an expression of hydrocephalus varied between 9.3% and 15.4% (12.9% +/- 1.7%). one hour prior to surgery each patient received 1 g of vancomycin infused intravenously over 60 minutes. samples of cerebrospinal fluid and venous blood were obtained 1 hour later and vancomycin levels assayed by fluorescence polarization immunoassay. there were 11 females and 14 males, with a mean age of 44.5 +/- 10.3 years and a mean weight of 72.0 +/- 11.4 kg. all had normal renal function. levels of vancomycin in the cerebrospinal fluid at 1 hour ranged from 0.1 to 1.5 micrograms/ml (0.9 +/- 0.3). weight did not affect these values (p greater than 0.1). simultaneous blood vancomycin levels varied between 9.1 and 38.7 micrograms/ml (22.3 +/- 8.3). ventricular volume, expressed as the ventricular-brain ratio, did not correlate with cerebrospinal fluid vancomycin levels (p greater than 0.5). there was no significant increase in concentrations of vancomycin in csf as cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration increased, nor when blood vancomycin concentration was greater than 20 mg/dl (therapeutic range) (p greater than 0.1). no patient had evidence of infection at 6 months follow up. these results indicate minimal cerebrospinal fluid penetrance of vancomycin when administered systemically 1 hour prior to shunt surgery. in addition concentrations of vancomycin in cerebrospinal fluid bear no relationship to weight, ventricular volume, meningeal inflammation, or blood levels in the therapeutic range. the minimum inhibitory concentration of vancomycin for staphylococci is 1.5 to 3.1, and as bactericidal levels of 5 to 8 minimum inhibitory concentration are needed to kill organisms, a combination of both systemic and intraventricular vancomycin may be needed to ensure adequate cerebrospinal fluid and tissue concentration of antibiotic during shunt prophylaxis.
the risk for systemic vascular diseases and mortality in patients with central retinal vein occlusion. in this cross-sectional study, the authors evaluated 197 patients diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion (crvo) at the wilmer ophthalmological institute between 1980 and 1985 to determine the risk of systemic disease and mortality. complete follow-up information for mortality was obtained in 191 (97%). national health interview survey (nhis) patients and wilmer cataract patients formed two comparison groups. the prevalence of hypertension was significantly elevated in the crvo cases when compared with both comparison groups (p less than 0.03, 0.005). the prevalence of diabetes mellitus was increased in crvo cases in comparison with the nhis group (p less than 0.005). the prevalence of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease was the same for all three groups, as was overall mortality. mortality was not increased in crvo cases as compared with united states mortality rates.
oral indomethacin for acute renal colic. a number of studies have suggested that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can relieve renal colic by a mechanism of action different from that of narcotics, offering the potential advantage of avoiding narcotic side-effects such as alteration of mental status. the authors prospectively administered oral indomethacin, 50 mg, to 25 nonvomiting patients with acute renal colic due to a documented stone. eleven patients group (i) received the drug in an unblinded, nonrandomized fashion after failure of oral or parenteral narcotics to provide satisfactory pain relief, either at home or in the emergency department. in 14 additional patients group (ii) indomethacin was given as the only initial treatment. pain intensity before and after treatment was reported using a 1-to-10 scale. in group i, pain decreased from 5.8 +/- 2.7 to 3.6 +/- 3.8 (p less than .02). six of the 11 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50% or more, which occurred within 25 +/- 11 minutes, and in 5 of these 6, pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level. in group ii, pain decreased from 7.6 +/- 1.5 to 4.6 +/- 4.0 (p less than .008). eight of the 14 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50% or more, which occurred within 40 +/- 14 minutes, and in 5 of these 8 pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level. among all 25 patients who received indomethacin, pain relief was not significantly associated with the duration of pain before treatment or with patient age or sex. there was a trend for pretreatment pain intensity to be higher among nonresponders (p = .07).
erythrocyte sedimentation as a measure of crohn's disease activity: opposite trends in ileitis versus colitis. to test our hypothesis that the erythrocytic sedimentation rate (esr) correlates well with clinical activity in inflammatory disease of the colon, but not of the small bowel, we stratified 49 crohn's disease patients according to their anatomic involvement and then measured the correlations between esr and clinical activity within each of these anatomical subgroups. for 18 patients with crohn's disease involving primarily the colon, there was a trend toward a direct correlation between clinical score and esr (p = 0.15). in the 14 patients with crohn's disease limited to the colon, this direct correlation was even more pronounced and statistically significant (p less than 0.02). by contrast, an opposite trend was observed for patients with small bowel disease. for the 26 patients with disease involving predominantly the small bowel, as well as for the 22 with disease limited to small bowel, there were statistically significant inverse correlations between clinical score and esr (p less than 0.04). this difference between the directions of the correlations for crohn's colitis versus ileitis was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). this study provides further evidence for the importance of analyzing putative indications of disease activity separately for each of the protean forms in which crohn's disease occurs.
familial hemifacial spasm associated with arterial compression of the facial nerve. case report. this report of an 88-year-old woman with familial hemifacial spasm includes the first published postmortem description of hemifacial spasm with cross-compression of the seventh cranial nerve root exit zone by a redundant loop of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery and associated vascular plexus. histological examination of the seventh and eighth cranial nerve complex suggested nerve degeneration because increased numbers of corpora amylacea were present just distal to the compression concavity. there was no evidence of demyelination or gliosis of the nerve. this case suggests that vascular compression of the nerve root exit zone is an important condition in the etiology of most of these cases. this is the third reported case of familial hemifacial spasm; to date, all such patients have had left facial involvement. the family pedigree in this case suggests a pattern of autosomal-dominant inheritance with partial penetrance. the genetic basis for familial hemifacial spasm may involve anatomical variants or anomalies of the posterior circulation, since both posterior inferior cerebellar arteries were congenitally absent in this case.
myeloma of the head of the pancreas. a case report. a 45-year-old man was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, iga-kappa, in 1975. thirteen years later he presented with obstructive jaundice. computed tomography (ct) showed a 6-cm mass in the head of the pancreas. needle aspiration showed myeloma. the jaundice resolved after treatment with radiotherapy. extraosseous involvement by myeloma is frequently found at autopsy but obstructive jaundice from myeloma of the head of the pancreas is quite rare. this atypical complication of myeloma may be related to the patient's long survival.
cytogenetic studies in untreated hodgkin's disease. very little data have been published on cytogenetic abnormalities in hodgkin's disease (hd) and their correlation with clinicopathologic features are scanty. we have performed chromosomal analysis of lymph nodes from 60 previously untreated hd patients and obtained analyzable metaphases in 49 patients (82%). chromosomal abnormalities were found in 33 patients (55%) but only 31 karyotypes could be, at least partially, described. twenty-nine cases showed numerical abnormalities that involved all chromosomes with the exception of chromosomes 13 and y, which were gained less frequently and lost more frequently than other chromosomes. structural abnormalities were found in 30 cases, involving all chromosomes except y. chromosomal regions 12p11-13, 13p11-13, 3q26-28, 6q15-16, and 7q31-35 were rearranged in more than 20% of the analyzable cases. no correlation was found between cytogenetic findings and initial characteristics. when compared with diffuse b-cell lymphomas, defects in regions 2p25 (p less than .01), 12p11-13 (p less than .01), 13p11-13 (p less than .01), 14p11 (p less than .01), 15p11-13 (p less than .02), and 20q12-13 (p less than .05) were more frequent in hd. when compared with t-cell lymphomas, only defects in regions 12p12-13 (p less than .01) and 13p11-13 (p less than .01) were more frequent in hd. failure to obtain analyzable metaphases was correlated with stage iv of the disease (p less than .05) and with a poor survival (p less than .01), but cytogenetic results showed no other correlation with clinical outcome. we conclude that molecular studies in hd should be focused on the short arms of chromosomes 12 and 13. determination of the clinical significance of cytogenetic findings will require a larger number of patients and a longer follow-up period.
late streptokinase infusion and antithrombotic treatment in myocardial infarction reduce subsequent myocardial ischemia. of 255 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction, 111 were eligible for attempted late thrombolysis. they were randomly assigned to either thrombolytic and antithrombotic treatment (treatment group) or routine treatment (control group). patients in the treatment group received streptokinase initiated late (mean 32 hours; range 12 to 49) after the onset of symptoms, followed by heparin infusion for at least 5 days and warfarin and dipyridamole for at least 3 months. patients were examined clinically and by bicycle ergometry on discharge from the hospital and after 3 and 12 months. the two groups did not differ with respect to deaths or reinfarctions. there was a trend toward a lower incidence of angina pectoris in the treatment group. exercise tolerance in this group was significantly higher than in the control group (at 3 months 124 +/- 39 w vs 107 +/- 41 w; p less than 0.05). the difference was entirely accounted for by patients with no previous history of infarction or angina pectoris (at 3 months 142 +/- 37 w vs 112 +/- 45 w; p = 0.01). ecg signs of myocardial ischemia, silent or symptomatic, occurred at significantly lower levels of exercise among patients in the control group compared with patients in the treatment group. the results support the notion that thrombolytic therapy given as late as 12 to 49 hours after the onset of symptoms may reduce the incidence of residual ischemia during the postinfarction period.
the auditory p300 event-related potential: an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease. recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy. this study assesses the value of the auditory p300 event-related potential--a slow component of the auditory evoked response--as a tool in this field. twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic (grade 1/2) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically. electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted. an auditory p300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm. the latency and amplitude of this wave were measured. the latency of the p300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups (p less than 0.05). amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients, but this was not statistically significant. this study suggests that the latency of the p300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy. the delays in the p300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities.
neuromesenchymal hamartoma of the small bowel. we present the case of a long small bowel stricture with pathological features similar to those described as "neuromuscular and vascular hamartoma," showing in addition extensive fatty submucosal infiltration and fibrous intramural nodules. in the controversy about the nature of this disorder, we consider it a separate entity. taking into account that other mesenchymal tissues than the originally described can participate, we propose the alternative term of "neuromesenchymal hamartoma" of the small bowel.
photoelectric quantitative evaluation of argon laser treatment of port wine stains. sixty patients with port wine stains were treated with the argon laser and graded visually into four subjective categories for changes in skin colour. for objective quantitative evaluation a photoelectric colorimeter was used. reproducible definition of the lightness of the lesions into numbers was obtained. differentials in lightness between normal contralateral skin and the port wine stain before and after treatment were quantified for each individual. the objective evaluation revealed a statistically significant difference between the four categories (p less than 0.05). the best clinical therapeutic effect was found to correlate with only 80-90% blanching. the average lightening obtained was 46.5%. local heating of port wine stains in 12 patients showed no measurable darkening in the colour of the lesions, whereas the normal contralateral skin reacted with marked reddening. determination of changes in lightness by photoelectric colorimetry provides an objective, quantitative means to evaluate the effects of laser treatment of port wine stains.
a new technique of surgical treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer without laparotomy by videocoelioscopy. we performed truncal posterior right vagotomy with lesser curve anterior gastric myotomy by videocoelioscopy on 10 patients (5 men and 5 women, ranging in age from 19 and 54 years, with a mean age of 32 years). all had a long history of chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 3.8 years. the mean length of the operation was 60 minutes (range: 55 to 110 minutes). there was no morbidity, and all patients were discharged after 5 days. the acid secretion tests under basal conditions and under insulin stimulation preoperatively and 1 month postoperatively showed a mean decrease in the basal output of 79.3% and a mean decrease of 83.04% in the maximal output. the fibroscopic control at the second postoperative month showed a complete healing of the ulcer in nine patients and a residual ulcer scar in one. no patients had any abdominal complaints. right truncal vagotomy and anterior lesser curve seromyotomy by videocoelioscopy is an efficient and elegant method of treating chronic duodenal ulcer, but it needs thorough experimental practice.
primary care patients who refuse specialized mental health services. the charts of 65 patients who completed mental health care referrals were compared with those of 65 patients who failed to complete such referrals. in the year before referral, the noncompliant patients made 37% more medical visits than the compliant patients. as compared with the compliant patients, a significantly greater proportion of the noncompliant patients' medical visits were for difficult-to-explain somatic symptoms. mental health referrals from some physicians were much more successful than referrals from other physicians. by attending to their patients' pattern of health care utilization, primary care physicians may be able to identify patients at high risk for noncompliance with mental health referrals.
a small animal model of human helicobacter pylori active chronic gastritis. isolation of a spiral-shaped bacterium closely related to helicobacter pylori from the cat stomach made it possible to investigate new small animal models of gastric infection. pure cultures of this bacterium, provisionally named "helicobacter felis," were fed to germ-free mice. the organism colonized the stomach in large numbers in mucus and deep in the gastric pits and showed the same gastric trophism found with h. pylori. significant histopathology was seen in all h. felis-infected mice. at 2 weeks postinfection, an acute inflammatory response was seen composed primarily of eosinophils and neutrophils. at 3 weeks, the polymorphonuclear response was more pronounced with large numbers of neutrophils in some areas forming small microabscesses. lymphocytes also increased in number. by 8 weeks, several relatively large lymphoid nodules were present in the submucosa. multiple small microabscesses were still present in the pyloric mucosa. this is the first animal model of bacterial gastritis to be described that shows progression from acute inflammation to persistent acute on chronic inflammation (active chronic) as is seen in human infection with h. pylori.
immunoprofile of mucoepidermoid carcinomas of minor salivary glands. because the data on the antigenic phenotype of mucoepidermoid carcinoma (mec) are incomplete and somewhat disparate, 45 mecs were evaluated immunohistochemically for low- and high-molecular-weight keratins, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, smooth muscle actin, and s-100 protein. tumors stained uniformly for keratins and, on occasion, focally for vimentin. tumors were nonreactive with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein and, with few exceptions, to muscle-specific actins and s-100 protein. clear cell and papillary histologic variants were seen as potential diagnostic pitfalls. if used with hematoxylin-and-eosin-stained sections, limited potential is seen for this antibody panel in surgical pathology. myoepithelial cell-associated antigens are expressed to a very limited extent in mecs.
an evaluation of cocaine-induced chest pain study objective: to determine if enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury is present in patients complaining of chest pain after cocaine use when the ecg is normal or nondiagnostic. design: serial ecg and creatinine kinase (ck) and ck isoenzymes (ck-iso) determinations were performed at time of emergency department presentation and every six hours over 12 hours on individuals complaining of chest pain within six hours of last cocaine use. setting: ed of an urban tertiary care center. type of participants: forty-two individuals with a mean age of 28.5 years. interventions: patients with positive ck-isos were admitted immediately to formally rule out myocardial infarction. patients developing ecg changes during observation period also were admitted even if ck-isos were normal. patients with unchanged ecgs and normal ck-isos were discharged after 12 hours of observation. results: eight patients (19%) had elevated ck and ck-iso values at presentation. two of these patients had elevated values on three sequential determinations and were believed to have sustained acute myocardial infarction. six patients had elevated ck and ck-isos at presentation only. ecgs remained normal or nondiagnostic in all patients. conclusions: enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury may occur in patients who develop chest pain after cocaine use and have normal or nondiagnostic ecgs. this injury may reflect acute infarction or transient ischemia. single or serial normal or nondiagnostic ecgs do not rule out ischemia or injury in this group of patients.
whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis? short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease. we present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years. short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and, in some cases, with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits. we think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate.
thymoma: results of 241 operated cases clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed. one hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases; 55% of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45% invasive. operation was radical resection in 87.5% of the patients, subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7%, and simple biopsy in 3.7%. a tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients (10%): 2 (1.5%) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 (20.4%) of 108 with invasive thymomas; among these patients, a relapse was found in 20.6% of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6% who did not. adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage iva (multiple pleural nodes), not feasible resection (for technical reasons), inoperable tumor relapse, and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases: pure red cell aplasia, hypogammaglobulinemia, and lupus erythematosus. conversely, myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma, thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis (p less than 0.05). postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas, but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas, regardless of the extent of the resection.
use of single internal mammary artery grafts in older patients. the indications for use of the internal mammary artery as a coronary bypass conduit in older patients are not clearly established. between january 1985 and december 1988, 786 patients received single internal mammary artery grafts alone (717) or in conjunction with other procedures (69). of these patients, 341 were 65 years of age or older (mean, 69.3 years). this group was compared with those patients less than 65 years of age (mean, 56.2 years). there were no significant differences between the two groups in the incidence of diabetes mellitus; the number of distal coronary anastomoses; left ventricular wall motion score; the frequency of isolated bypass procedures, reoperations, or emergent operations; or the durations of aortic clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass. the older group contained more women (34.9% versus 20.7%) and more patients with left main coronary artery disease (15.5% versus 9.4%) (p less than 0.01). no significant differences in the frequency of reoperation for hemorrhage, perioperative infarction, neurological deficits, requirements for intra-aortic balloon pumping, sternal wound infections, necessity for prolonged ventilatory support, or 30-day mortality (2.7% versus 3.2%) were observed. the length of postoperative hospitalization was greater in the older group (11.8 versus 10.2 days) (p = 0.02). blinded histological examination of biopsies from 61 internal mammary artery grafts (34 patients less than 65 years, 27 patients greater than or equal to 65 years) showed no significant differences in luminal area or wall thickness. no significant degenerative changes were observed in either group. we conclude that the use of the internal mammary artery for bypass grafting in older patients is safe and may provide long-term benefit.
the clinical significance of fluid collections in acute pancreatitis. computed tomography (ct) displays fluid collections in patients with acute pancreatitis as well defined intra- or extrapancreatic homogeneous areas with low attenuation numbers. we followed, prospectively, the clinical courses of 128 patients who had ct during an episode of acute pancreatitis, to determine the natural history and clinical significance of any fluid collections that developed. fluid collections were found in 48 (37%) of the 128 patients with pancreatitis. thirty-eight developed in the 86 (44%) patients with alcoholic pancreatitis, five in the 33 (15%) with biliary pancreatitis and five in the nine (55%) with other causes of pancreatitis (excluding chronic pancreatitis, trauma, or malignancy). on clinical follow-up of the 48 patients with fluid collections, 21 patients required operation; two died before an operation was done and 25 did not require operation. operations were done to treat pseudocysts (14), abscess (5), and necrosis (3). one patient had an operation for a pseudocyst and an abscess. all 14 patients requiring operation for pseudocyst had collections greater than 7 cm and 13 of these patients had alcoholic pancreatitis. of the 25 patients not requiring operation, five were lost to follow-up, and 19 of the 20 who had spontaneous resolution of their fluid collection(s) had collections less than 6 cm in diameter. the eight patients who required operative pancreatic debridement for abscess or necrosis had multiple small fluid collections. in summary, fluid collections were found in one-third of patients with acute pancreatitis and were often associated with the development of local complications.
dna ploidy pattern in rectal carcinoid tumors. the nuclear dna pattern of 22 rectal carcinoids was determined by cytophotometry of paraffin embedded tissues. the results were compared with clinical as well as histopathologic features of the tumor. three of the carcinoids with synchronous or metachronous metastasis had aneuploid dna pattern, whereas 19 tumors with no metastasis showed diploid dna pattern. no other single clinical or pathologic feature of the tumor could predict more accurately the malignant potential and the subsequent course of the rectal carcinoid. it is concluded that dna aneuploidy in rectal carcinoid tumors is not so rare as indicated by earlier studies and that it is a factor of significant prognostic value.
lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. a new association. we describe cases of severe odynophagia, extensive oral ulcerations, and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis. such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis. in addition, deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis. we review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine, interferon alfa, and h2 blockers in our patients. based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era, we postulated an association between these two entities.
hemodynamic events in a prospective randomized trial of propranolol versus placebo in the prevention of a first variceal hemorrhage. in a double-blind randomized trial, the hemodynamic events following the administration of propranolol (n = 51) or a placebo (n = 51) were prospectively studied in cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices. the hepatic venous pressure gradient, heart rate, and variceal size were determined at the baseline and 3, 12, and 24 months after the beginning of therapy. baseline values were similar in both groups. at 3 months, the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly in propranolol-treated patients (from 18.1 +/- 4.2 to 15.7 +/- 3.4 mm hg; p less than 0.05) but not in patients receiving the placebo (19.6 +/- 6.8 to 17.5 +/- 5.3 mm hg; ns). at subsequent time intervals this gradient decreased significantly from the baseline value in both groups. heart rate decreased significantly in the propranolol-treated group at all times (p less than 0.001). variceal hemorrhage occurred in 13 patients (11 placebo-, 2 propranolol-treated; p less than 0.01), all of whom had a hepatic venous pressure gradient greater than 12 mm hg. in 21 patients (14 propranolol-, 7 placebo-treated) the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased to less than or equal to 12 mm hg; none of them bled from esophageal varices, and their mortality rate also decreased. because most of the bleeding events occurred during the first year (10 placebo-, 1 propranolol-treated; p less than 0.01), propranolol seems to have its protective effect during the period associated with the largest reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient. because a reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm hg protects from variceal bleeding and increases the rate of survival, this should be the aim of the pharmacological therapy of portal hypertension.
increased glucose metabolism in the medulla of patients with palatal myoclonus. hypertrophic degeneration of the inferior olivary nuclei is the pathologic substrate for palatal myoclonus, but the physiologic correlate of this finding is uncertain. using the 2-[18f]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and pet method, we determined the local cerebral metabolic rate of glucose utilization in seven patients with palatal myoclonus (following stroke or infection, or idiopathic), one patient with oculopalatal myoclonus (following a stroke affecting the brainstem), and nine normal subjects. the metabolism of glucose in the medulla of the patients with palatal myoclonus was significantly greater than that of the normal subjects. this may well have been due to increased metabolism of the inferior olivary nuclei. glucose metabolism in the medulla of the patient with oculopalatal myoclonus was normal. these findings suggest that the inferior olivary nuclei, or a region of the brainstem encompassing the inferior olivary nuclei, are hypermetabolic in palatal myoclonus and may be the generators of the involuntary movements in palatal myoclonus.
management of children with myelodysplasia: urological alternatives. recent reports have suggested that the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization in selected infants with myelodysplasia and with normal upper tracts may prevent their deterioration. the selection of these patients at risk depends on urodynamic criteria. we reviewed our experience with clean intermittent catheterization instituted when upper tract deterioration was found. of 130 patients with myelodysplasia followed at our clinic 25 (19%) had or presented with radiological upper urinary tract deterioration. a total of 21 patients had vesicoureteral reflux and 4 had hydronephrosis without reflux. treatment consisted of clean intermittent catheterization alone in 5 patients and combined with anticholinergic medication in 16. four patients with no post-void residual urine were carefully observed without intervention. urodynamic evaluation was performed selectively in 11 of these 25 patients for persistence of upper urinary tract deterioration or urinary incontinence after institution of treatment. of the 21 children with reflux 19 (90%) had resolution or improvement for an average followup of 47 months. hydronephrosis completely resolved in the 4 patients without reflux. thus, the over-all resolution or improvement rate was 92% for an average of 41 months. although these excellent results may not be superior to the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization, they validate the assumption that upper tract deterioration can be reversed. the application of current urodynamic selection criteria may result in overtreating a significant number of infants who otherwise may not have upper tract deterioration. further refinements in these criteria may be necessary to select better not only patients at risk but also to determine the frequency of imaging necessary in this urologically heterogeneous population. in addition, careful consideration should be given to urethral dilation as a third and equally viable alternative to prevent upper tract deterioration.
rupture of thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma. a fifteen-year experience. during the 15 years from 1971 through 1985, 114 patients with rupture of the thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma were admitted to the shock trauma center of the maryland institute for emergency medical services systems. mean age was 31.3 years (range, 15 to 80). ninety were male and 24 were female, a 3.75:1 ratio. of the 114, 89 (78.1%) survived initial resuscitation in the admitting area. twenty five of the 89 initial survivors (28.1%) died during or after surgical repair. paraplegia occurred in 11 of the 78 operating room survivors (14.1%). further analysis was done of the 83 patients admitted in the 10-year period from 1976 through 1985. mean injury severity score, excluding aortic injury, was 18.2. twenty-five of the 83 (30.1%) died during resuscitation in the admitting area or operating room. seven others died during surgical repair and 12 died postoperatively, leaving 39 survivors (39/83 [47%] of total admissions and 39/58 [67.2%] of survivors of resuscitation). paraplegia/paresis developed postoperatively in six of 34 (17.6%) cases involving shunt and four of 17 (23.5%) without shunt. other major complications occurred in 21 of the operating room survivors. statistically significant risk of death or major complication was associated with female sex, higher injury severity score, lower admission blood pressure, larger hemothorax on admission, less qualified surgeon, major operation before aortic repair, use of shunt, and transfer directly from scene of injury. there was no advantage in this series to using or not using a shunt in preventing paraplegia. mortality rates are realistic for a highly developed trauma system. better techniques are needed to manage exsanguination and prevent paraplegia.
percutaneous balloon valvotomy for patients with mitral stenosis: initial and follow-up results. percutaneous double balloon mitral valvotomy (pmv) was performed in 25 patients with severe mitral stenosis who were followed for at least 6 months after the procedure. there were 22 women and 3 men, with a mean age of 51 +/- 14 years (range, 27 to 74). hemodynamic and angiographic findings were evaluated before and after pmv and clinical status was assessed at follow-up. there was a significant decrease in mitral gradient following pmv, from 15.4 +/- 5.1 to 5.0 +/- 2.6 mm hg (p less than .0001); an increase in cardiac output, from 4.6 +/- 1.1 to 5.2 +/- 1.1 l/min (p less than .01); and an increase in calculated mitral valve area, from 0.9 +/- 0.2 to 2.2 +/- 0.6 cm2 (p less than 0.0001). mitral regurgitation developed or increased in severity in six patients (24%). at the time of follow-up (mean, 12 +/- 5 months), three patients required elective mitral valve replacement for symptomatic mitral regurgitation and 91% (20 of 22) of the remaining patients had continued improvement in functional class. pmv can safely be performed in properly selected patients with symptomatic mitral stenosis with good immediate and follow-up results.
etiologic, clinical, and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age. during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires, 31 fatal cases were recorded--a fatality rate of 3.8%. of the 31 children who died, 77% were less than 1 year of age, 48% were boys, 58% were malnourished, 29% had previous respiratory disease, and 22% had previous congenital disease. all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia (71%) or bronchiolitis (29%). autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases. viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence (iif) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates (npa) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood, lung tissue, and/or pleural fluid. npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif. pathogens were identified in 65% of fatal cases. seven cases were bacterial; seven cases were viral; and six cases resulted from mixed infections. lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases. histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions (n = 5) and multifocal pneumonia (n = 9).
a prospective study of patients with sciatica. a comparison between conservatively treated patients and patients who have undergone operation, part i: patient characteristics and differences between groups. based on a prospective study on 342 sciatica patients examined with rhizography, the aim was to determine which factors others than the rhizography finding and the grade and duration of symptoms were related to the selection of patients to undergo operation. compared with surgically treated patients, conservatively treated patients who did not undergo operation and who had pathologic rhizography findings had pessimistic attitudes to possible surgery, often expressed a desire to retire, and considered their work as physically stressful. the women in this group were older and had lower pain indices than women who underwent operation. conservatively treated patients with negative rhizography had more severe occupational handicaps, minor expectations of possible surgery, physically more strenuous jobs requiring difficult physical positions, and lower indices for pain and adl than did the operated patients. the social and ergonomic background problems are emphasized in sciatica patients conservatively treated after rhizography.
the stroke syndrome of striatocapsular infarction. striatocapsular infarction has recently been described as a distinct stroke entity and forms an important subgroup of subcortical infarctions. in a prospective study of 50 consecutive patients over a 10 yr period with this syndrome, clinical and neuropsychological features, pathogenesis and outcome were studied to provide information concerning management and prognosis. the most common clinical presentation was that of a stroke affecting mainly the upper limb with cortical signs such as dysphasia, neglect or dyspraxia. evidence from eeg, angiographic and neuropsychological data supported a vascular/haemodynamic basis for the presence of the acute neuropsychological changes, while the chronic changes were more likely to be due to diaschisis. a study of risk factors and cerebral angiography enabled 4 pathophysiological subgroups to be identified: (1) cardiac emboli to the origin of the middle cerebral artery; (2) severe extra-cranial cranial carotid artery occlusive disease with presumed embolism to the same site and/or involvement of haemodynamic factors; (3) proximal middle cerebral artery abnormalities causing occlusion of multiple lateral striate arteries at their origins; (4) normal angiography where pathogenesis was uncertain. the risk factors of cardiac disease and smoking were significantly increased as compared with age and sex-matched controls with other forms of ischaemic stroke. stroke or vascular death rate was 2.7% per yr during a mean follow-up period of 2.25 yrs. predictors of an excellent recovery with return to normal lifestyle were younger age, only brachial or brachiofacial weakness with absence of cortical signs at presentation and minimal change on angiography. this stroke entity deserves particular recognition in the spectrum of subcortical infarctions because of its specific pathogenesis, distinct neuropsychological features and reasonable prognosis.
relation of meat, fat, and fiber intake to the risk of colon cancer in a prospective study among women. background. the rates of colon cancer in various countries are strongly correlated with the per capita consumption of red meat and animal fat and, to a lesser degree, inversely associated with the consumption of fiber. methods. we conducted a prospective study among 88,751 women 34 to 59 years old and without a history of cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, or familial polyposis who completed a dietary questionnaire in 1980. by 1986, during 512,488 person-years of follow-up, 150 incident cases of colon cancer had been documented. results. after adjustment for total energy intake, animal fat was positively associated with the risk of colon cancer (p for trend = 0.01); the relative risk for the highest as compared with the lowest quintile was 1.89 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.13 to 3.15). no association was found for vegetable fat. the relative risk of colon cancer in women who ate beef, pork, or lamb as a main dish every day was 2.49 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.24 to 5.03), as compared with those reporting consumption less than once a month. processed meats and liver were also significantly associated with increased risk, whereas fish and chicken without skin were related to decreased risk. the ratio of the intake of red meat to the intake of chicken and fish was particularly strongly associated with an increased incidence of colon cancer (p for trend = 0.0005); the relative risk for women in the highest quintile of this ratio as compared with those in the lowest quintile was 2.49 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.50 to 4.13). a low intake of fiber from fruits appeared to contribute to the risk of colon cancer, but this relation was not statistically independent of meat intake. conclusions. these prospective data provide evidence for the hypothesis that a high intake of animal fat increases the risk of colon cancer, and they support existing recommendations to substitute fish and chicken for meats high in fat.
pulmonary complications of combination therapy with cyclophosphamide and prednisone. oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone are standard treatment for some neoplasms and necrotizing systemic vasculitis and are advocated with increasing frequency for idiopathic interstitial lung disease. during a 15-month period, we observed four cases of acute respiratory failure from pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (pcp) in patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone. one patient each had polyarteritis nodosa, wegener's granulomatosis, bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia with red blood cell aplasia. hypoalbuminemia (serum albumin level less than 3.0 g/dl) and daily therapy were associated with increased risk for development of pcp (p less than 0.05). none of the patients had leukopenia (less than 3,500/cu mm) or neutropenia (less than 1,000/cumm) at diagnosis. all were negative for the human immunodeficiency virus. patients receiving oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone may be at higher or increasing risk for pcp. a high index of suspicion and aggressive evaluation for opportunistic infection are needed in these patients; consideration for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis and development of more quantitative measures of immunosuppression are needed.
debulking of pelvic and para-aortic lymph node metastases in ovarian cancer with the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator. six patients with metastatic ovarian cancer with extensive involvement of the pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph nodes underwent surgical debulking with the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator. intraoperative and postoperative morbidity was minimal. it is suggested that this technique may be used for cytoreductive surgery in combination with standard surgical techniques.
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy: current therapy. spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality. numerous types of surgical management have been described, but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted. the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976, as well as the 11-year experience at our institution. twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution. the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births. among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage, an 82% overall survival was achieved, whereas only 25% of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived (p = .006). hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma, packing the damaged liver, and draining the operative site. more aggressive surgical techniques, such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy, should be reserved for refractory cases.
diurnal cardiovascular patterns in spontaneously hypertensive and wistar-kyoto rats. this study was designed to determine whether diurnal patterns of blood pressure, heart rate, or locomotor activity differed among two substrains of wistar-kyoto rats, derived originally from charles river or taconic farms stock, or the spontaneously hypertensive rat. cardiovascular parameters were continuously monitored over 24 hours. resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure values were statistically different among the three groups both during the lights-on (rest) and lights-off (active) phases of the cycle with blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats greater than that of wistar-kyoto rats from taconic farms, which was greater than that of wistar-kyoto rats from charles river. the largest difference in arterial pressure between wistar-kyoto/taconic farms and wistar-kyoto/charles river was during the lights-on period. heart rates of all rats decreased during the lights-on period; wistar-kyoto/charles river had the largest decrease (-70 +/- 5 beats/min), wistar-kyoto/taconic farms had the least (-17 +/- 2 beats/min), and in spontaneously hypertensive rats the decrease was intermediate (-29 +/- 3 beats/min). the pronounced diurnal variation in pressure and heart rate exhibited by wistar-kyoto/charles river was not present in either wistar-kyoto/taconic farms or spontaneously hypertensive rats. blood pressure magnitude correlated with locomotor activity during both periods, although all groups showed minimal activity during the rest period. observed differences between wistar-kyoto/charles river and wistar-kyoto/taconic farms were not due to a lack of or an abnormality in baroreceptor reflex function.
antigen specific serum antibody response to chlamydia trachomatis in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease. sera from 35 patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease (pid) with and without chlamydia trachomatis confirmed by culture and sera from 19 control patients with neither evidence of pelvic infection nor c trachomatis infection were studied for the presence of serum igg, iga, and igm antibodies to c trachomatis using enzyme immunoassay (eia) and immunoblotting techniques. there was no correlation between the antibody concentrations in the eia and the spread of chlamydial infection, as determined by cervical, endometrial, and laparoscopic sampling for chlamydia. the immunoblot analysis showed antibodies to the major outer membrane protein (momp) of c trachomatis elementary bodies in all patients who had had c trachomatis isolated. reactivity was also frequently observed against the 68, 62, 60, 45, and 31 kilodalton antigens. about 20 antigenic polypeptides were identified. differences in antibody prevalence to specific chlamydial antigens, however, were not related to the site of chlamydial isolation or serum antibody concentrations observed with the eia. the results indicate that patients with pid with and without upper genital tract infection with c trachomatis cannot be differentiated by reactivity of sera to specific chlamydial polypeptide antigens. the determination of a specific serum iga antibody response by eia was the most effective single test to discriminate between patients with and without acute chlamydial infection.
elevated prostaglandin e2 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma. understanding local pulmonary immunoregulatory mechanism(s) in patients with carcinoma of the lung is an important step towards the development of innovative methods of treatment. prostaglandin e2 plays an integral role in immunoregulation. therefore, we evaluated pge2 concentrations in balf from 18 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma, compared to that from six patients with pulmonary diseases other than carcinoma and ten normal smokers of similar age. the level of pge2 in patients with lung carcinoma (158.1 +/- 88.7 pg/ml) was significantly (p less than 0.001) higher than the other two groups (16.2 +/- 6.9 and 4.4 +/- 3.4 pg/ml). levels of pge2 also varied among patients with carcinoma of different cell types. patients with sqca had significantly (p less than 0.001) higher levels of pge2 (242.7 +/- 29.4 pg/ml) than patients with adca or scca (82.3 +/- 27.9 and 66.3 +/- 15.2 pg/ml, respectively). furthermore, there was a marked difference in pge2 concentration between carcinomatous lung and clinically noninvolved lung in patients with sqca and adca. further study is warranted to determine the interactions between pge2 and other cytokines (interleukin-1, il-2, and tumor necrosis factor), as well as the activity of cytolytic lymphocytes (lak cells) in the lungs of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma.
psychological and behavioral implications of abnormal mammograms. objective: to evaluate women's psychological responses to abnormal mammograms and the effect on mammography adherence. to identify psychological responses and other factors that predict mammography adherence in women with normal or abnormal mammograms. design: survey study with prospective analysis of factors associated with mammography adherence. setting: health maintenance organization of pennsylvania and new jersey (hmo pa/nj). patients: study patients, members of hmo pa/nj who were 50 years of age or older, and who had had mammography done 3 months earlier, included women with normal mammograms (n = 121), women with low-suspicion mammograms (n = 119), and women with high-suspicion mammograms (n = 68), but not women with breast cancer. measurements: psychological responses 3 months after mammography and adherence to subsequent annual mammography were assessed. main results: women with high-suspicion mammograms had substantial mammography-related anxiety (47%) and worries about breast cancer (41%). such worries affected the moods (26%) and daily functioning (17%) of these women, despite diagnostic evaluation excluding malignancy. for each variable, a consistent trend (p greater than 0.05) was seen with degree of mammogram abnormality. sixty-eight percent of women with normal results, 78% of women with low-suspicion results, and 74% of women with high-suspicion results obtained their subsequent annual mammograms (p greater than 0.05). the number of previous mammograms (odds ratio, 3.2; 95% ci, 1.6 to 6.2) and the effect of the previous results on concerns about breast cancer (odds ratio, 0.5; ci, 0.2 to 1.0) were independent predictors of adherence in logistic regression analyses (p less than 0.05). conclusions: a substantial proportion of women with suspicious mammograms have psychological difficulties, even after learning that they do not have cancer. such sequelae do not appear to interfere with subsequent adherence.
traumatic hyphaema: a retrospective study of 314 cases. a retrospective study was made of 314 consecutive cases of traumatic hyphaema in a mixed urban and rural scottish population. secondary haemorrhage occurred in 4.1% of cases and was not associated with a worsening of final visual acuity. there were no identifiable risk factors for secondary haemorrhage. poor visual outcome was in most cases attributable to retinal pathology. the use of antifibrinolytic agents does not appear to be necessary in such a population, and the importance of detecting associated retinal detachment is emphasised.
diagnosis of budd-chiari syndrome by pulsed doppler ultrasound. computed tomography and real-time ultrasonography may not be conclusive for the diagnosis of the budd-chiari syndrome; in many cases more information may be needed, especially on vascular alterations. doppler ultrasonography provides qualitative data on flow direction and pattern, thereby contributing significantly to diagnosis. eight cases in which hepatic vein patency was unclear and presence of intrahepatic vessels resembling hepatic veins raised problems of interpretation in real-time ultrasonography are described. in some cases, patency or occlusion of the upper portion of the inferior vena cava were difficult to identify with real-time ultrasonography. doppler ultrasonographic investigation showed flow in the hepatic veins to be completely absent in two cases and reversed in another two. in the remaining four cases, a flat waveform was evident. flow in the inferior vena cava was reversed in four cases and showed a flat waveform in three other cases. portal vein thrombosis was detected in only one case, whereas the remaining seven patients showed slow hepatopetal flow. these findings demonstrate that absent or reversed flow in the hepatic veins and/or flat flow in the hepatic veins associated with reversed flow in the inferior vena cava may be considered diagnostic for the budd-chiari syndrome. for this series the sensitivity of doppler ultrasonography was 87.5%.
infrainguinal bypass surgery: factors determining late graft patency. the results of 373 infrainguinal bypass grafts, in a single centre, between 1980 and 1988 are reviewed. one hundred and thirty in situ vein (isv), 47 reversed saphenous vein (rsv), 118 polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe) and 78 human umbilical vein (huv) grafts were used. the indications for surgery were disabling claudication in 25 per cent of patients and limb salvage in 75 per cent. in 36 per cent of operations the distal anastomosis was above the knee and in 64 per cent it was below the knee. overall 5-year patency rates and limb salvage rates respectively were, for isv (41 and 69 per cent), rsv (62 and 90 per cent), ptfe (31 and 67 per cent) and huv (29 and 59 per cent). there was no significant difference in patency among these grafts at the above-knee level, but significant differences between vein and prosthetic grafts were evident below the knee (p less than 0.001). using a proportional hazards model the three factors that consistently correlated with late graft patency were graft type (p less than 0.001), site of distal anastomosis (p less than 0.001) and distal run-off (p less than 0.001). overall, the results suggest that prosthetic grafts are a suitable alternative to autogenous vein when the distal anastomosis is above the knee, but vein should always be used, if available, below the knee joint.
effect of obesity on safe duration of apnea in anesthetized humans. obese patients have a decreased functional residual capacity and, hence, a reduced oxygen supply during periods of apnea. to determine whether obese patients are at greater risk of developing hypoxemia during induction of anesthesia than patients of normal weight, 24 patients undergoing elective surgical procedures were studied. group 1 (normal) were within 20% of their ideal body weight. group 2 (obese) were more than 20% but less than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight. group 3 (morbidly obese) were more than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight. patients were preoxygenated for 5 min or until expired nitrogen was less than 5%. after induction of anesthesia and muscle relaxation the patients were allowed to remain apneic until arterial saturation as measured by pulse oximetry reached 90%. the time taken for oxygen saturation to decrease to 90% was 364 +/- 24 s in group 1, 247 +/- 21 s in group 2, and 163 +/- 15 s in group 3; these times are significantly different at p less than 0.05 between groups. regression analysis of the data demonstrated a significant negative linear correlation (r = -0.83) between time to desaturation and increasing obesity. these results show that obese patients are at an increased risk of developing hypoxemia when apneic.
ischaemic heart disease among men in norway during the period 1966-1985: two counties with different mortality time trends. we have examined regional differences in mortality from ischaemic heart disease, including sudden, unexpected death (ihd/sud), among norwegian men aged 30-69 years, during the period 1966-1985. mortality time trends were considered. the two counties with the most widely differing ihd/sud mortality time trends were rogaland and oppland. rogaland, located in south-western norway, experienced a 24.1% ihd/sud mortality rate decrease between 1966-1970 and 1981-1985, while oppland, in central south-eastern norway, experienced a mortality rate increase of 12.4%. marked regional differences within these counties were found. the highest ihd/sud mortality rate increase occurred in rural areas of oppland. urban areas of rogaland had sharply decreasing rates. knowledge of such regional mortality differences could provide useful information regarding aetiological factors and serve as a basis for preventive measures and health-care planning.
fetal imaging in the skeletal dysplasias. second-trimester diagnosis of fetal skeletal dysplasia is becoming increasingly common. by careful examination of the fetus for skeletal mineralization, shape and size of long bones and cranium, and abnormalities of other organ systems, a definitive diagnosis can often be achieved by ultrasound. fetal radiography is very helpful in giving more information about bone shape and mineralization as well as in confirming the diagnosis. subsequent obstetric management should be dictated by the natural history of the disease, the parents' wishes, and the gestational age at diagnosis. because many of these disorders have a high recurrence risk, genetic counseling and follow-up are an important part of the management of these patients.
magnetic resonance imaging of cardiac rhabdomyosarcoma. quantifying the response to chemotherapy. this report illustrates the use of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (mri) to quantify the initial extent of a cardiac rhabdomyosarcoma and, more importantly, its response to chemotherapy. image slices spanning the heart and adjacent structures were analyzed using simpson's rule applied to the image slices to estimate the tumor volume initially, then after 5 weeks, and again after 4 months of chemotherapy. a substantial, progressive reduction in tumor volume during chemotherapy was shown. after chemotherapy was discontinued, an increase in tumor volume was shown. it is suggested that, in addition to being useful in patient care, the technique may be useful in clinical investigations by providing an objective, quantitative measure of tumor response to therapy.
rosenthal fibers share epitopes with alpha b-crystallin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and ubiquitin, but not with vimentin. immunoelectron microscopy with colloidal gold. ultrastructural immunoreactivities of alpha b-crystallin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap), ubiquitin, and vimentin in rosenthal fibers (rfs) isolated from an alexander's disease brain were investigated using nonosmium and low-temperature embedding technique. the morphology of rfs embedded in lowicryl k4m resin was well preserved after treatment with 0.5% triton x-100. alpha b-crystallin immunoreactivity was present in rfs of various sizes and was the strongest in loosely scattered deposits, which were considered to be the initial stage of rfs. glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in rfs was heavy, homogeneous throughout rfs, and equivalent to that in networks of glial filaments. immunoreactivities of both alpha b-crystallin and gfap were mainly restricted to the high electron-dense areas within rfs and were proved to exist close to each other by double immunolabeling. rosenthal fibers were negative for vimentin. ubiquitin immunoreactivity was relatively homogeneous in rfs with small diameters, but in rfs with large diameters, the immunoreactivity diminished in the center. based on these observations, combined with the tendency of self-aggregation of alpha b-crystallin, it is conceivable that rfs are huge aggregation products of alpha b-crystallin involving gfap, and that ubiquitination may be a consequent phenomenon, as it may be in other intracytoplasmic inclusions, such as neurofibrillary tangles and lewy bodies.
adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, vincristine and ccnu for patients with dukes' c colorectal cancer. the swedish gastrointestinal tumour adjuvant therapy group. a prospective controlled randomized trial testing adjuvant postoperative combination chemotherapy (5-fluorouracil, lomustine (ccnu) and vincristine) versus no adjuvant therapy in patients operated on for dukes' c colorectal cancer is reported. in total 334 patients aged less than 70 years were recruited: 205 patients with colonic and 99 with rectal cancer, but there were three protocol violations and these cases are excluded from further consideration. twenty-seven patients had a limited resection of their cancer. after 5 years' follow-up there was no significant difference in the tumour-free survival rate or in the survival rate between the treated and control groups. twenty-nine of the 147 patients who started chemotherapy discontinued this treatment because of side-effects, mainly from the gastrointestinal tract. in 30 patients treatment was discontinued because of recurrent disease. the conclusion is that systemic administration of combination chemotherapy for colorectal cancer after operation is not worthwhile in routine clinical practice.
complement activation and use of a cell saver in cardiopulmonary bypass. complement activation was evaluated in ten patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) and intraoperative blood salvage with a cell saver (cs) to assess the inflammatory response related to the cs. the washed red blood cell concentrate was reinfused after protamine injection. plasma c3a was measured by radioimmunoassay preoperatively, 5 min before cpb, at 5, 60, and 90 min during cpb, 5 min after protamine infusion, at the end of surgery, and after 24 hr. in addition, a clinical score based on renal, pulmonary, neurologic, and myocardial postoperative evolution was given (0-8) to every patient. results were compared with the c3a changes and clinical scores obtained from 26 routine (no cs) cardiac surgical patients. results showed maximal c3a generation after protamine and no further activation in cases of cs concentrate reinfusion, which ranged from 400 ml to 2,000 ml. no difference in clinical score was observed between the cs (1 +/- 1) and control (0.85 +/- 0.6) groups. the authors conclude that the cs does not enhance complement activation resulting from extracorporeal circulation and can be safely used as a blood saving strategy in cardiac surgery.
clues to the electrocardiographic diagnosis of subtle wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children. the electrocardiographic diagnosis of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome (wpw) may be missed because delta waves can be subtle in children, so we examined 66 electrocardiograms from patients with proven wpw, 24 from those with questionable wpw ("subtle wpw"), and 369 consecutive electrocardiograms from control patients to identify additional clues that wpw might be present. three features were notable in wpw: no q wave in left chest leads (88%), pr interval less than 100 milliseconds (80%), and left axis deviation (33%). in subtle wpw these findings were similar: 79%, 67%, and 46%, respectively. by comparison, 5% of control subjects had no q wave, 16% had a pr interval of less than 100 milliseconds, and 4% had left axis deviation (all p less than 0.001). the coexistence of two of these features was common (74%) in wpw and subtle wpw (63%) but rare (2%) in control subjects (p less than 0.001). a pr interval of less than 100 milliseconds was less specific before 1 year of age, but 89% of patients with wpw had a qrs duration of greater than 80 milliseconds versus 2% of control subjects (p less than 0.001). obvious wpw disappeared later in 11 patients; however, left axis deviation or lack of a q wave persisted in eight (p less than 0.01). we conclude that the diagnosis of wpw in children, even when subtle, is suggested by the presence of these four changes. preexcitation may persist in some patients in whom overt delta waves are no longer present.
new approaches to research on the long-term consequences of prenatal exposure to alcohol. as the summary presentation of a symposium on prenatal alcohol-induced brain damage and long-term postnatal consequences, this paper proposes the establishment of two main research priorities--to begin to correlate long-term behavioral effects with alterations in underlying neural substrates, and to explore the mechanisms of neuroteratogenicity. to reach these goals, three objectives are described. first, animal and human research must become more interrelated. second, experimental observations should be integrated into formal models that incorporate both neural structure and function. third, researchers should choose well-defined dependent measures that are derived from models of brain function based on modern concepts of cognitive neuroscience. examples of neuropsychological tests that may serve as the bases for structure/function relationships are presented. incorporating these objectives into future research will facilitate understanding of the fundamental issues concerning prenatal alcohol exposure and will begin to provide the bases for rational intervention or treatment.
laryngeal metastasis from colonic adenocarcinoma. metastases to the larynx from distant primaries are very rare. usually the secondary lesion comes from an hypernephroma or malignant melanoma. a case of metastatic laryngeal tumour from a colonic adenocarcinoma, occurring in a 59-year-old woman, is presented and the routes for laryngeal spread are discussed. the poor survival-rate of these patients justified only conservative surgery.
the ileosigmoid knot. the ileosigmoid knot (isk) is a rare cause of intestinal obstruction. unfamiliarity with the condition could have disastrous consequence at surgery. over the past 20 years, we have encountered seven cases. analyzing the data gathered from these, and on reviewing the literature, we found it possible to arrive at a preoperative diagnosis in two patients. four patients were women, two of whom developed the obstruction in the postpartum period. one of the males was found to have an inflamed meckel's diverticulum included in the knotting. the symptoms and the clinical findings were nonspecific. the characteristic x-ray findings of a double closed loop obstruction, was seen in only three patients. resection of gangrenous bowel with anastomoses was feasible in four. unlike in other series, primary anastomosis of the large gut was undertaken. there were two deaths early in the series. guidelines to the management have been suggested.
whither electronic fetal monitoring? largely based on promising animal studies, continuous electronic fetal monitoring (efm) was introduced into clinical practice in the early 1970s. after almost 20 years of experience, it is now apparent that the anticipated benefits of this technology have not materialized. undesirable side effects of efm include inappropriate operative intervention for some patients and increased liability for physicians and hospitals, resulting in an increase in the costs of obstetric services. after reviewing several research studies, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists concluded that efm and intermittent auscultation are equivalent methods for intrapartum assessment. we have developed a protocol for the performance of intermittent auscultation, including indicated responses to different levels of bradycardia. this protocol has allowed us to substitute auscultation for efm in a high percentage of patients using existing nursing personnel. laboring patients should, at a minimum, receive information on both intermittent auscultation and efm to enable them to make an informed choice of method for intrapartum fetal assessment.
methodology of head-up tilt testing in patients with unexplained syncope prolonged 60 degree head-up tilt has been shown to be valuable in the investigation of unexplained syncope, diagnosing neurally mediated bradycardia/hypotension or malignant vasovagal syndrome. to evaluate the methodology of tilt testing, the following were examined: reproducibility of results, tilt duration, angle of tilt, method of tilt support and effect of age in patients and control subjects. seventy-one patients with recurrent unexplained syncope underwent 60 min of 60 degree tilt; 53 (75%) had an abnormal test with vasovagal syncope at 24 +/- 10 min (mean +/- sd). tilting to 60 degrees resulted in an abnormal test in only 2 (7%) of 27 control subjects without cardiovascular symptoms (p less than 0.001); and 5 (15%) of 34 patients with syncope and documented conduction tissue disease (p less than 0.001). of 15 youthful fainters, 3 (20%) had vasovagal reactions as did 1 (8%) of 12 asymptomatic youthful control subjects. these 12 control subjects also underwent tilting with a saddle support and 7 (67%) had vasovagal reactions. it is concluded that the duration of tilting at 60 degrees should be 45 min (mean time to syncope +2 x sd in the 53 patients with abnormal results). twenty percent of patients with an abnormal tilt test may not demonstrate syncope with repeat tilting. saddle tilt testing in unexplained syncope may result in a loss of specificity. tilting at less than 60 degrees results in a loss of sensitivity. head-up tilt may be less useful in youthful subjects with vasovagal syncope than in other subjects.
retinal infarction during sleep and wakefulness. brain and retinal infarctions during sleep have been attributed to focal hypoperfusion caused by systemic hypotension combined with underlying arterial stenosis, rather than to embolism. because some retinal emboli may be visualized on ophthalmoscopy, we studied 24 consecutive patients (18 men and six women) aged 26-78 (mean 58) years with recent retinal infarction and determined whether the infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness. all patients underwent dilated ophthalmoscopy and a carotid artery study (arteriography in 20, duplex ultrasound in the remaining four), and 12 had echocardiography. retinal infarction occurred during sleep at an unexpectedly rate (14 of 24 observed compared with eight of 24 expected, p = 0.02). retinal cholesterol emboli were seen in one half of the patients regardless of whether the retinal infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness. carotid artery disease was found in seven of the 14 patients in whom infarction had occurred during sleep and in eight of the 10 patients in whom infarction had occurred during wakefulness (p = 0.21). cerebrovascular occlusive disease was not found in the five patients aged less than 50 years. our findings suggest that embolism is a common mechanism of retinal infarction during sleep or wakefulness, that in patients aged greater than 50 years extracranial carotid artery disease is a common source of retinal emboli, and that the retina may be especially susceptible to infarction during sleep.
primary osteosarcoma of the lung. report of two cases and review of the literature. two cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung are presented. in one case, the radiologic, clinical, and cytologic findings led to a preoperative diagnosis of undifferentiated carcinoma of the lung. in the second case, a lung nodule was discovered during postchemotherapy follow-up in a patient with lymphoma. fine needle aspiration in the second case showed lymphoma, and further chemotherapy was instituted; however, persistent growth of the nodule prompted a resection. microscopic examination of the resected tumors in both cases revealed histologic features of high-grade osteosarcoma. flow cytometric analyses of the primary tumors showed abnormal hyperdiploid deoxyribonucleic acid populations in accordance with those seen in high-grade malignant neoplasms. immunohistochemical studies supported a mesenchymal origin for these tumors. these tumors shared clinical features with other reported cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung such as large size at diagnosis, occurrence in older individuals, and aggressive behavior.
adverse effects of aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen on immune function, viral shedding, and clinical status in rhinovirus-infected volunteers. a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted to study the effects of over-the-counter analgesic/antipyretic medications on virus shedding, immune response, and clinical status in the common cold. sixty healthy volunteers were challenged intranasally with rhinovirus type 2 and randomized to one of four treatment arms: aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or placebo. fifty-six volunteers were successfully infected and shed virus on at least 4 days after challenge. virus shedding, antibody levels, clinical symptoms and signs, and blood leukocyte levels were carefully monitored. use of aspirin and acetaminophen was associated with suppression of serum neutralizing antibody response (p less than .05 vs. placebo) and increased nasal symptoms and signs (p less than .05 vs. placebo). a concomitant rise in circulating monocytes suggested that the suppression of antibody response may be mediated through drug effects on monocytes and/or mononuclear phagocytes. there were no significant differences in viral shedding among the four groups, but a trend toward longer duration of virus shedding was observed in the aspirin and acetaminophen groups.
the hands in alcoholic liver disease. chronic liver disease is frequently associated with a hyperdynamic circulation, with warm hands and capillary pulsations. in our experience, however, a significant number of patients with alcoholic liver disease complain of cold hands. in this study, we have investigated the presence of the subjective feeling of hand temperature in 114 patients with alcoholic liver disease compared with 96 healthy controls, and studied possible correlations of this subjective feeling with the severity of liver disease. significantly more patients with alcoholic liver disease complained of cold hands than did normals, and these differences were more prominent in the male group. the awareness of cold hands appears to be commoner in an intermediate group of patients, between those with noncirrhotic liver disease without varices and those with cirrhosis with varices. a similar pattern of awareness of hand temperature was found when patients were staged according to the severity of their liver disease. we conclude that a staging can be made; at an early stage of liver disease, patients tend to have warm hands, subsequently develop cold hands, and at a later stage, their hands become warm again.
sports-related and non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in young adults. sports-related sudden cardiac deaths were compared with non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in individuals (14 to 40 years old) who were autopsied from 1981 to 1988 at the maryland medical examiner's office. thirty-four of 690 total cases of sudden cardiac death were sports-related, which represents 5% of sudden cardiac death in this age group. causes of death were severe atherosclerosis (nine), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry (eight), coronary artery anomalies (four), idiopathic concentric left ventricular hypertrophy (three), myocarditis (two), arrhythmogenic right ventricle (one), kawasaki disease (one), and unknown (six); two of the cases with unknown causes had tunnel arteries. exercise-related deaths were more likely due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0007) compared with 102 age-, sex-, and race-matched controls in the non-exercise group; there was no difference in the incidence of severe atherosclerosis (p = 0.4). the mean age of individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry was less than that of those with severe atherosclerosis (24 vs 32 years, p = 0.03). thus exercise precipitates sudden cardiac death in younger individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
nontraumatic coma. glasgow coma score and coma etiology as predictors of 2-week outcome. in 1987 and 1988, we carried out a prospective study of patients older than 10 years with nontraumatic coma in the intensive care units of columbia-presbyterian medical center, new york, ny. of 188 patients with glasgow coma scale (gcs) determinations within 72 hours, 61% were dead or in persistent coma by 2 weeks from onset. age, sex, and ethnicity did not influence outcome. the 2-week outcome for patients with initial gcs of 3 to 5 was 14.8% awake; 85.2% were dead or in persistent coma. for the gcs 6 to 8 group, 53.1% were awake and 46.9% were dead or in persistent coma. hypoxic or ischemic coma had the worst 2-week outcome (79% dead or comatose); coma caused by metabolic disease or sepsis (68%), focal cerebral lesions (66%), and general cerebral diseases (55%) were intermediate, while drug-induced coma had a favorable outcome (27% dead or comatose). the independent predictors of 2-week outcome were the first gcs and drug-induced coma. the predicted probability of waking at 2 weeks was eight times better for drug-induced coma than other causes when gcs was held constant. patients with an initial gcs score of 6 to 8 were seven times more likely to waken than those with a score of 3 to 5. the motor subscore alone was a significant independent predictor of 2-week outcome. modification of coma score to include etiology may give more accurate predictions of 2-week outcome after nontraumatic coma.
evidence for abnormal na+/h+ antiport activity detected by phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in exercising skeletal muscle of patients with essential hypertension. 1. exercise-induced ph changes in skeletal muscle were studied in a group of eight subjects with essential hypertension by using 31p n.m.r. spectroscopy. 2. leucocyte na+/h+ antiport activity was measured in vitro in the same subjects using a ph-sensitive fluorescent dye. 3. resting skeletal muscle ph and unstimulated leucocyte ph values were similar to those in control subjects, but increased na+/h+ antiport activity was demonstrated in the leucocytes from hypertensive subjects by acid loading in vitro. decreased skeletal muscle acidification and an increased rate of ph recovery was also demonstrated in vivo in these same patients during an acid load induced by isotonic exercise. 4. these findings suggest that the increased cellular na+/h+ antiport activity, which has been demonstrated in vitro in essential hypertension, also affects the biochemical response of skeletal muscle to physiological levels of exercise. this strengthens the argument that increased na+/h+ antiport activity in hypertension is a generalized and physiologically relevant cellular abnormality.
digoxin for atrial fibrillation: a drug whose time has gone? for over 200 years digitalis compounds have been used to treat atrial fibrillation. the rapid ventricular response to atrial fibrillation is frequently treated with digoxin to produce a controlled heart rate. digoxin has also been proposed as a treatment for terminating recent-onset atrial fibrillation, for maintaining sinus rhythm after an episode of atrial fibrillation, and as prophylactic therapy in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to prevent excessive tachycardia during a paroxysm. perhaps because it has been used for so long, few of these indications have been studied scientifically until recently. studies now suggest that in patients with atrial fibrillation, digoxin is a poor drug for controlling heart rate during exertion, has little or no effect in terminating the arrhythmia, and may occasionally aggravate paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. despite adequate digitalization, the heart rate at the onset of a paroxysm of fibrillation in patients receiving the drug does not differ from the heart rate in patients not receiving it. this article discusses the current role of digoxin in the management of patients with chronic, recent-onset, or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
outpatient microsurgical reversal of tubal sterilization by a combined approach of laparoscopy and minilaparotomy. a prospective study of 17 cases of microsurgical reversal of tubal sterilization by a combined approach of laparoscopy and minilaparotomy was performed. inclusion criteria included age less than 43; weight less than ideal body weight plus 20%; documentation of ovulation; 2 cm of proximal oviduct on hysterosalpingography; and a normal semen analysis or postcoital test. a comparison group of the 5 cases of sterilization reversal performed by a standard inpatient technique during the same period was analyzed. the study technique was performed on an outpatient basis in 15 of the 17 cases, 12 patients (71%) conceived 13 intrauterine pregnancies, one ectopic pregnancy occurred, and total patient costs and time until return to work were significantly less with the study versus standard technique.
standards for analysis of ventricular late potentials using high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography. a statement by a task force committee of the european society of cardiology, the american heart association, and the american college of cardiology. sufficient data are available to recommend the use of the high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiogram in patients recovering from myocardial infarction without bundle branch block to help determine their risk for developing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. however, no data are available about the extent to which pharmacological or nonpharmacological interventions in patients with late potentials have an impact on the incidence of sudden cardiac death. therefore, controlled, prospective studies are required before this issue can be resolved. as refinements in techniques evolve, it is anticipated that the clinical value of high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography will continue to increase.
achalasia in the elderly. effects of aging on clinical presentation and outcome. clinical and manometric data from 13 elderly subjects with idiopathic achalasia (mean age 79 +/- 2 years) were compared with findings from younger subjects with the same disease (n = 79) to see if aging altered the presentation and outcome of this motor disorder. fewer elderly subjects complained of chest pain (27% vs 53%), and the pain was significantly less severe (p less than 0.01). other presenting features (including sex, duration of symptoms, and presence and severity of dysphagia) did not differ between the groups. across all patients, age weakly and inversely correlated with residual postdeglutitive lower esophageal sphincter; (les) pressure (r = -0.34), and residual pressure was significantly lower in the older subjects (8.0 +/- 1.3 mm hg vs. 11.9 +/- 0.8 mm hg; p = 0.02). no differences in basal les pressure or esophageal-body contraction amplitudes were present between the groups. initial success with pneumatic dilation was similar in the two subject groups, but the number of older subjects available for analysis was too small to draw strong conclusions. these results indicate that aging decreases the elevation of les residual pressure that occurs with achalasia. as elderly achalasia patients also present with less chest pain, the findings may be interrelated.
renal hemodynamics in normal and hypertensive pregnancy: lessons from micropuncture. rats are an excellent animal model in which to study the changes in renal hemodynamics associated with normal pregnancy. midterm pregnant rats exhibit a maximal renal vasodilation leading to increases in glomerular filtration rate (gfr) and renal plasma flow (rpf). micropuncture studies in midterm pregnant munich-wistar rats have shown that single-nephron gfr (sngfr) increases, due entirely to increases in plasma flow and, importantly, glomerular capillary blood pressure (pgc) remains unchanged in normotensive pregnancy, due to parallel and proportionally similar reductions in preglomerular (ra) and efferent (re) arteriolar resistance. despite the chronic gestational renal vasodilation, pregnancy in normotensive rats with either normal kidneys or a variety of underlying diseases, causes no adverse changes in renal function, perhaps because the glomeruli are protected from damaging high pgc. in the presence of systemic hypertension, the renal vasodilation of pregnancy could put the maternal kidney at risk of injury due to increases in pgc. there are few renal functional studies in preexisting, essential hypertension, but micropuncture studies in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrs) have shown that repetitive pregnancies in shrs cause no functional impairment. surprisingly, shrs demonstrated no gestational renal vasodilation, although gestational decreases in peripheral resistance certainly occur in the shr. this absence of gestational renal vasodilation may be a protective mechanism; it remains to be determined whether hypertensive states in which renal vasodilation does occur are associated with increased risk to the maternal kidney.
new concepts in the treatment of stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate. stage d1 disease will be encountered in 20 per cent of patients by those who treat prostate cancer. there is marked heterogeneity among cancers discovered at this stage, with 5-year disease-free survival rates ranging from 0 to 95 per cent. generally, when prostate cancer has escaped the confines of the gland, metastasis occurs, and widespread systemic disease prevails. any significant chance for long-term cure will then depend on systemic therapy. from maturing data in retrospective reviews, preliminary data from prospective trials, and recent well-conducted animal studies, chemotherapy and hormonal deprivation appear most effective when tumor volumes are the smallest. this evidence supports the removal of all cancer possible and the early institution of systemic treatment. caution must be exercised in extrapolating the aforementioned evidence to include cases of more extensive prostate cancer (i.e., patients with bulky pelvic or retroperitoneal disease, distant metastasis, or significant elevation of serum markers). it is doubtful that "debulking" with removal of the prostate and lymph nodes will provide any justifiable advantages in these patients. whether removal of the prostate affords any local palliative benefit is an issue for debate. certainly, the primary tumor, if left untreated, will progress locally and cause symptoms necessitating further procedures in more than half these patients, whereas the incidence of local recurrence and the adverse effects of these recurrences in patients with d1 disease after radical prostatectomy and adjuvant therapy is less than 10 per cent. surgical refinements coupled with acceptably low morbidity now associated with radical prostatectomy have led some authors to endorse the palliative benefits of removing the primary tumor in selected patients. the purpose of this article is not to endorse or disparage the aggressive treatment of patients with stage d1 prostate cancer. the evidence suggests that if long-term survival is the endpoint used to compare treatment groups, then to date no treatment option offers significant advantages. on the contrary, if progression rates or disease-free survival are compared, then cytoreductive surgery and early systemic adjuvant treatment (testosterone deprivation or chemotherapy) provides significant advantages for selected patients with stage d1 disease. although ploidy analysis, receptor mapping, and oncogene assays are promising, today, there is no practical way to identify patients who will benefit most from multimodality treatment approaches.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
the flail mitral valve: echocardiographic findings by precordial and transesophageal imaging and doppler color flow mapping. to determine the echocardiographic and doppler characteristics of mitral regurgitation associated with a flail mitral valve, precordial and transesophageal echocardiography with pulsed wave and doppler color flow mapping was performed in 17 patients with a flail mitral valve leaflet due to ruptured chordae tendineae (group i) and 22 patients with moderate or severe mitral regurgitation due to other causes (group ii). echocardiograms were performed before or during cardiac surgery; cardiac catheterization was also performed in 28 patients (72%). mitral valve disease was confirmed at cardiac surgery in all patients. by echocardiography, the presence of a flail mitral valve leaflet was defined by the presence of abnormal mitral leaflet coaptation or ruptured chordae. using these criteria, transesophageal imaging showed a trend toward greater sensitivity and specificity than precordial imaging in the diagnosis of flail mitral valve leaflet. by doppler color flow mapping, a flail mitral valve leaflet was also characterized by an eccentric, peripheral, circular mitral regurgitant jet that closely adhered to the walls of the left atrium. the direction of flow of the eccentric jet in the left atrium distinguished a flail anterior from a flail posterior leaflet. by transesophageal echocardiography with doppler color flow mapping, the ratio of mitral regurgitant jet arc length to radius of curvature was significantly higher in group i than group ii patients (5.0 +/- 2.3 versus 0.7 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.001); all of the group i patients and none of the group ii patients had a ratio greater than 2.5.
induction of protein kinase c mrna in cultured lymphoblastoid t cells by iron-transferrin but not by soluble iron. iron-transferrin (fetf) is an essential growth factor required for proliferation of lymphoid cells. fetf activates protein kinase c (pkc) in the lymphoblastoid t-cell line, ccrf-cem. we have treated cem cells with human fetf, then examined levels of pkc mrna by hybridization analysis using cdna probes specific for alpha-, beta-, and gamma-pkc subspecies. cem cell mrna hybridized with the beta-subspecies probe but not with probes for alpha- or gamma-subspecies. after exposure to fetf an increase in pkc-beta mrna was detectable at 10 minutes, peaked at 12 hours, and was sustained for 72 hours. nuclear transcription assays demonstrated that rates of pkc-beta mrna transcription were increased in fetf-treated cells. by contrast, steady state levels of pkc-beta mrna did not increase after treatment of cells with apotransferrin or gallium tf. similarly, treatment with soluble iron as ferric ammonium citrate did not increase steady state levels of pkc-beta mrna, despite producing a marked increase in cellular ferritin content. ferritin increased from a baseline value of 63 ng/10(6) cells to 98 and 100 ng/10(6) cells in cem cells treated for 1 hour with ferric ammonium citrate or fetf, respectively. fetf did not increase cytoplasmic-free calcium in cem cells loaded with fura-2, indicating that binding of fetf to transferrin receptors did not open membrane ca2+ channels or release intracellular ca2+. in addition, pretreatment of cells with desferrioxamine, but not ferrioxamine, blocked the fetf-induced increase in pkc-beta transcripts. therefore, iron as fetf (not soluble iron or nonferric tf) stimulates transcription of the cem cell pkc-beta gene. transcriptional rate of the pkc-beta gene does not correlate with cellular iron content as judged by ferritin measurements. furthermore, the requirement for fetf does not appear to reflect activation of a classic agonist pathway as judged by stable cellular ca2+. these data suggest that delivery of iron by fetf to one or more specific cellular compartments may stimulate pkc-beta gene transcription in cem cells.
assessment of brain death in children by means of p-31 mr spectroscopy: preliminary note. work in progress. the authors examined the possibility of assessing cerebral damage with phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance (mr) spectroscopy in 24 patients (three infants, four children older than age 5 years, and 17 adults) who met the adult criteria for brain death. in all patients except patient 3 (an infant 8 months old), inorganic phosphate with phosphodiester was observed, and adenosine triphosphate (atp) and phosphocreatine (pcr), which are detectable in healthy brains, were not detected. in 22 of these 23 patients, cardiac death occurred within 7 days after clinical brain death, and in one infant 14 months old, cardiac death occurred 38 days after clinical brain death. in patient 3, atp and pcr were detected with p-31 mr spectroscopy, and now, more than 20 months after brain death, cardiac death has not yet occurred. in children younger than age 5 years, p-31 mr spectroscopic findings were predictive of the patient's clinical outcome. these findings may help establish criteria for the diagnosis of brain death in children younger than age 5 years.
spinal cord stimulation: a contemporary series forty-three patients with chronic pain disorders of different causes were selected for spinal cord stimulation. all underwent implantation of a ribbon electrode through a small laminotomy, under general anesthesia. thirteen patients (30%) failed to obtain significant pain relief during a period of trial stimulation, and their electrodes were removed. the remainder underwent a definitive implant and were followed for a mean of 13 months (range, 3-33 months). nineteen of them (63%) continued to experience pain relief. a detailed analysis of this series, as well as a literature review, is presented.
adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma in brazil and its relation to htlv-i in a series of fourteen patients with adult t-cell lymphoma-leukaemia (atll) in brazil the main features were lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, hypercalcaemia, and high leucocyte counts, with abnormal lymphoid cells which had irregular nuclei. the series included the youngest patient with atll so far (18 months). analysis with monoclonal antibodies showed a mature t-cell phenotype (cd4+, cd8-). antibodies to htlv-i and/or integration of htlv-i proviral dna were found in eleven patients. in the other three htlv-i dna could not be demonstrated even by means of the polymerase chain reaction; they therefore had htlv-i-negative atll. this report of atll in brazil corroborates serological reports that htlv-i may be endemic in some parts of that country. follow-up studies are required to identify precisely the main route of transmission of htlv-i in south america and the risk factors for the development of atll in carriers.
effect of captopril on renal function in hypertensive dogs with unilateral renal artery stenosis, studied with radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy. the kidneys of five hypertensive dogs with experimental unilateral renal artery stenosis were examined by 99mtc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (dtpa) and 131i-hippuran radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy at 10 and 40 min (respectively) following the administration of intravenous bolus injections of captopril. doses of 0.2, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg captopril reduced mean arterial pressure by 33 +/- 4, 31 +/- 7, and 51 +/- 4 mm hg and increased plasma renin activity by 40.1 +/- 9.8, 57.6 +/- 3.2, and 34.4 +/- 15.2 ng a1/ml/h, respectively. the time-activity curves of both 99mtc-dtpa and 131i-hippuran indicated that renal excretory function in the stenotic kidney was compromised with all three doses of captopril. however, if nitroprusside was used to reduce the mean arterial pressure to a level comparable to that with captopril, there was no appreciable increase in plasma renin activity and renal excretory function was only partially affected in the stenotic kidney. one hour after the administration of 0.5 mg/kg captopril, the function of the stenotic kidneys was partially restored and, by two hours, the time-activity curves were comparable to control scans. these data demonstrate a reversible, time-limited suppression of stenotic kidney function by captopril in renovascular hypertension and provide support for the use of captopril in the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension by radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy.
the j-curve phenomenon and the treatment of hypertension. is there a point beyond which pressure reduction is dangerous? we critically appraised the medical literature to evaluate whether there is a point beyond which blood pressure reduction in hypertensive subjects is no longer beneficial and possibly even deleterious. thirteen studies that stratified cardiovascular outcomes by level of achieved blood pressure in treated hypertensive subjects who had been followed up for at least 1 year were critiqued by four independent reviewers. data addressing population, protocol, and methodological characteristics were evaluated. studies did not show a consistent j-shaped relationship between treated blood pressure and stroke, but they did demonstrate a consistent j-shaped relationship for cardiac events and diastolic blood pressure. the beneficial therapeutic threshold point was 85 mm hg. we conclude that low treated diastolic blood pressure levels, ie, below 85 mm hg, are associated with increased risk of cardiac events.
vertigo after epidural morphine. severe complications from the use of epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section are rare. a case is reported of extreme prostrating vertigo several hours after epidural morphine injection, where the time of onset of the symptom coincided with the expected time of arrival of the morphine within intra-cerebral cerebro-spinal fluid.
myocardial perfusion imaging with technetium-99m sestamibi spect in the evaluation of coronary artery disease. technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi is a new myocardial perfusion imaging agent that offers significant advantages over thallium-201 (tl-201) for myocardial perfusion imaging. the results of the current clinical trials using acquisition and processing parameters similar to those for tl-201 and a separate (2-day) injection protocol suggest that tc-99m sestamibi and tl-201 single photon emission computed tomography (spect) provide similar information with respect to detection of myocardial perfusion defects, assessment of the pattern of defect reversibility, overall detection of coronary artery disease (cad) and detection of disease in individual coronary arteries. tc-99m sestamibi spect appears to be superior to tc-99m sestamibi planar imaging because the former provides a higher defect contrast and is more accurate for detection of disease in individual coronary arteries. research is currently under way addressing optimization of acquisition and processing of tc-99m sestamibi studies and development of quantitative algorithms for detection and localization of cad and sizing of transmural and nontransmural myocardial perfusion defects. it is expected that with the implementation of the final results of these new developments, further significant improvement in image quality will be attained, which in turn will further increase the confidence in image interpretation. development of algorithms for analysis of end-diastolic myocardial images may allow better evaluation of small and nontransmural myocardial defects. furthermore, gated studies may provide valuable information with respect to regional myocardial wall motion and wall thickening. with the implementation of algorithms for attenuation and scatter correction, the overall specificity of tc-99m sestamibi spect should improve significantly because of a substantial decrease in the occurrence of attenuation-related image artifacts.
comparison between perindopril and nifedipine in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. melbourne diabetic nephropathy study group objective--to compare the efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with calcium antagonism in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. design--randomised study of diabetic patients with microalbuminuria treated with perindopril or nifedipine for 12 months and monitored for one or three months after stopping treatment depending on whether they were hypertensive or normotensive. patients were randomised separately according to whether they were hypertensive or normotensive. setting--diabetic clinics in three university teaching hospitals. patients--50 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria. in all, 43 completed the study: 30 were normotensive and 13 hypertensive; 19 had type i diabetes and 24 had type ii diabetes. interventions--for 12 months 20 patients were given perindopril 2-8 mg daily and 23 were given nifedipine 20-80 mg daily. main outcome measures--albumin excretion rate, blood pressure, and glomerular filtration rate. results--both perindopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure. during treatment there was no significant difference between those treated with perindopril and those treated with nifedipine with respect to albuminuria or mean blood pressure. stopping treatment with both drugs was associated with a sustained increase in albuminuria and mean blood pressure. there was a significant correlation between mean blood pressure and albuminuria and also between the reduction in mean blood pressure and the decrease in albuminuria during treatment with both drugs. in hypertensive patients both drugs caused significant decreases in mean blood pressure and albuminuria. in normotensive patients there was no significant reduction in albuminuria with either regimen. conclusions--in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria blood pressure seems to be an important determinant of urinary albumin excretion. perindopril and nifedipine have similar effects on urinary albumin excretion, both preventing increases in albuminuria in normotensive patients and decreasing albuminuria in hypertensive patients.
endoscopic repair of supraglottic laryngeal clefts. we describe the technique of endoscopic diagnosis and endoscopic surgical repair used in the management of supraglottic interarytenoid laryngeal clefts in 11 children seen between 1981 and 1988 at the hospital for sick children, london, england. six of the children had primary type i clefts that required endoscopic repair. the symptoms included inspiratory stridor, choking during eating, and aspiration. five of the children had previous transcervical repair of type ii clefts that had partial breakdown in the interarytenoid area causing symptoms of aspiration, which required secondary repair endoscopically. all the patients had successful microlaryngoscopic closure; in two children, however, the breakdown of the repair necessitated repeated endoscopic correction. the only complication occurred in a case of postoperative supraglottitis, which was successfully managed with intubation and antibiotics. we conclude that endoscopic repair is a useful and reliable technique and an elegant alternative to the open transcervical approach for the closure of supraglottic laryngeal clefts.
medical management of chronic heart failure: inotropic, vasodilator, or inodilator drugs? on the basis of pathophysiologic mechanisms, the medical therapy of today for chronic heart failure is reviewed. the advantages and disadvantages of the vasodilator drugs and the inotropic drugs are presented. finally, the therapeutic value of the inodilator drugs, which combine the central myocardial effects of positive inotropic agents with those of peripheral vasodilators, is discussed. in particular, the orally available dopaminergic agents, such as ibopamine, which interact with beta-receptors in the heart (mediating a positive inotropic effect) as well as with dopaminergic receptors in the peripheral vessels (mediating a systemic vasodilator effect) and in the kidneys (potentiating the natriuretic effect of diuresis), seem to be an advancement in the modern medical therapy of chronic heart failure. data are shown during long-term treatment with ibopamine, in which the sustained clinical benefit in heart failure was not diminished, despite a decrease of the adrenergic receptors in blood cells. dopamine plasma concentration was permanently normalized during long-term treatment. the discrepancy between clinical improvement and the measured adrenergic downregulation may be due to the interference of the inodilator with neurohormonal systems at multiple sites and is probably independent of receptor activation. it is suggested that the biosynthesis of noradrenaline is improved by increasing intracellular dopamine transport.
liver tumor imaging. liver tumor imaging is the paradigm of the dilemma of diagnostic decision-making in the current era of abundant high technology. in part, this is a reflection of the multiplicity of imaging techniques now in wide use worldwide. these include ultrasound (us), radionuclide scintigraphy (rns), computed tomography (ct), magnetic resonance imaging (mri), and techniques especially designed for staging the extent of known liver cancer, such as computed tomography during arterial portography (ctap) and intraoperative ultrasound (ious). most authorities concede that ct scanning is the single test most closely fitting the designation "gold standard" for liver tumor imaging, although mri, a less mature technique, is already preferred by some. local factors profoundly influence the selection and sequence of imaging studies, including available equipment, radiologic skills, institutional interests, and especially the specific clinical circumstances of the patient. thus, diagnostic algorithms or decision trees for sequential imaging workup of liver tumor suspects tend to be somewhat institution specific.
prognosis of acute myocardial infarction complicated by primary ventricular fibrillation. principal investigators of the sprint study. in 5,839 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami), hospitalized between july 1981 and july 1983 in 14 coronary care units in israel, the incidence of primary ventricular fibrillation (vf) was 2.1%. patients with primary vf resembled counterparts without vf in terms of age, gender, frequency of previous ami and past cigarette smoking habits. the hospital course of patients with primary vf revealed increased incidence of primary atrial fibrillation and atrioventricular block. increased serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase were noted among the patients with primary vf. in-hospital mortality rate was 18.8% in 122 patients with primary vf compared with 8.5% in 3,707 patients forming the reference group (p less than 0.01). adjustment by age using logistic function yielded an estimate of 2.86 for relative mortality odds associated with primary vf, and further adjustment by gender, history of ami, systemic hypertension, and by enzymatically estimated infarct size slightly reduced the estimated odds, at 2.52 (95% confidence interval, 1.42 to 4.46). prognosis after discharge from the hospital was independent of primary vf. in conclusion, primary vf exerts an independent, significant effect on in-hospital mortality.
diagnostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in the differential diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma. the histologic and cytologic distinction of malignant mesothelioma from carcinomas metastatic to the pleura or peritoneum is often problematic. for this reason immunologic methods are being increasingly used as diagnostic adjuncts. this review summarizes 40 studies on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen in mesotheliomas and in lung and other carcinomas involving the pleura or peritoneum. carcinoembryonic antigen was identified immunohistochemically in 11% of mesotheliomas and in 84% of carcinomas examined and immunocytochemically (in serous effusions) in 4% and 58%, respectively. in serum and in pleural or ascitic fluid, significantly elevated levels of carcinoembryonic antigen are commonly associated with (lung) carcinomas but rarely with mesotheliomas. thus, together with identification of the antigen in serum, pleural fluid, or ascitic fluid, immunohistochemical and immunocytochemical techniques for detecting carcinoembryonic antigen provide a valuable aid for distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from metastatic carcinomas.
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups. in practice, some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes. therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems. in this article, doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension, namely, left ventricular hypertrophy, hyperlipidemia, noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, renal insufficiency, pheochromocytoma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, peripheral vascular disease, and smoking. doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension, and the results of relevant studies are discussed.
homocystinuria presenting as central retinal artery occlusion and longstanding thromboembolic disease. a case of central retinal artery occlusion in a patient with a 10-year history of unexplained thromboembolic disease due to a secondary hypercoagulable state is presented. ophthalmological examination led to the final diagnosis.
surgical treatment of the retethered spinal cord after repair of lipomyelomeningocele. in a series of 75 patients with surgically treated lipomyelomeningoceles, the neurological condition of six patients deteriorated 6 months to 14 years after the operation due to repeat tethering of the spinal cord. the tethering resulted from postoperative dense adhesion between the cord and the overlying dura mater. two of the six patients underwent conventional repeat untethering procedures, and the remaining four were successfully treated with a new surgical technique developed by the authors to prevent such dural adhesion. for this procedure, after complete untethering of the spinal cord, the lumbosacral cord is retained in the center of the dural sac by fine stay sutures between the pia mater of the conus medullaris and the ventral dura mater. in addition, the dura mater is tacked to the posterior arch which is reconstructed with bone grafts at one or two bifid vertebral levels. during a postoperative follow-up period of 1 to 3 years, no further deterioration has been observed and magnetic resonance studies have demonstrated a space filled with cerebrospinal fluid (csf) around the lumbosacral cord. the authors conclude that long-term observation, both neurological and radiological, is essential even after successful repair of a lipomyelomeningocele. this new surgical procedure can maintain a csf bath around the lumbosacral cord, thus preventing dural adhesion. application of this technique will hopefully be beneficial in lipomyelomeningocele patients with a high risk of cord retethering after initial repair.
leiomyosarcoma of bone. a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of five cases. the authors identified five leiomyosarcomas (lms) in a review of 13 nonmatrix-producing spindle cell sarcomas of bone. only two were initially recognized as lms; the others had been diagnosed as malignant fibrous histiocytoma (two) and fibrosarcoma (one). the patients, four of whom were women, ranged in age from 32 to 70 years. sites included proximal humerus (two), distal femur (two), and rib (one). all tumors presented with clinical and radiographic features consistent with a diagnosis of primary bone neoplasms, although one probably represented a solitary metastasis from a primary uterine lms. radiographs showed lytic bone destruction with a moth-eaten appearance, and three cases had soft tissue extension. histologically, all tumors showed broad, interlacing fascicles of spindle cells with pleomorphic nuclei, frequent mitoses, and necrosis. two cases had a focal storiform pattern and bizarre multinucleated cells, and two other cases had focally prominent osteoclast-like giant cells. extensive immunoreactivity for muscle actin was seen in all cases and for desmin in three. in each case, electron microscopy showed definite smooth muscle differentiation including cytoplasmic filaments with densities. at this writing, two patients are free of disease (including the patient with a presumed metastasis), one is alive with locally recurrent disease, and two are dead of disease. experience suggests that lms of bone is a distinct clinicopathologic entity that may be more common than previously recognized. application of immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to nonmatrix-producing bone sarcomas should facilitate diagnosis of additional cases.
verapamil increases serum alkaline phosphatase in hypertensive patients. in rats, verapamil decreases intestinal absorption of calcium, increases serum parathyroid hormone (pth), and induces osteopenia. in this prospective study, verapamil 80-120 mg three times daily was given for 2 months to 20 patients with hypertension, and the effects on calcium homeostasis were recorded. this dose of verapamil significantly reduced supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure (+/- sd) from 158/100 +/- 9/8 mmhg to 146/89 +/- 14/8 mmhg (p = 0.001). serum alkaline phosphatase (alp) increased significantly from 2.77 +/- 1.06 mu kat l-1 to 3.19 +/- 1.22 mu kat l-1 (p = 0.004), and isoenzymes of alp of skeletal origin appeared after verapamil treatment. the excretion of sodium in the urine increased (na/creatinine ratio 8.95 +/- 6.01 before and 13.16 +/- 8.26 after verapamil; p = 0.04), while the excretion of calcium, phosphate and potassium was not changed. pth was slightly increased at the end of verapamil treatment (1.09 +/- 0.54 vs. 0.98 +/- 0.74 microgram l-1; p = 0.07), and s-1,25(oh)2d3 was also somewhat increased (22.3 +/- 14.4 vs. 17.6 +/- 4.9 ng l-1; p = 0.26). serum ca was not affected by verapamil (before verapamil 2.43 +/- 0.11 mmol l-1, after verapamil 2.40 +/- 0.12 mmol l-1; p = 0.28). the increase in serum alp demonstrates that verapamil affects bone cell metabolism in man. this effect could be secondary to the enhancement of pth secretion.
dosage of haloperidol for schizophrenia. eighty-seven newly admitted inpatients with schizophrenia were randomized to receive 10, 30, or 80 mg/d of oral haloperidol. they were treated under double-blind conditions for 6 weeks, less if their acute symptoms remitted sooner. survival analysis showed no differences among the three treatments. side effects were minimal in all three treatment groups, and there were no differences in side effects among the groups. these results suggest that dosages higher than 10 mg/d of haloperidol for most patients have no additional beneficial effect in the treatment of acute or exacerbated schizophrenia.
crohn's disease: what about the pancreas? [editorial] crohn's disease (cd) is now accepted as a systemic illness. the importance of extraintestinal manifestations is underlined by the fact that such "complications" can be more prominent and even more difficult to control than the intestinal disease itself. lately, evidence for a more than accidental association of pancreatitis and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency with cd is growing. this might have a significant impact on the treatment of abdominal pain and diarrhea in cd, symptoms which have so far been attributed exclusively to the intestinal rather than the extraintestinal manifestations of the disease.
bowenoid papulosis. bowenoid papulosis is an uncommon genital dysplasia induced by human papillomavirus infection. clinically, it usually resembles persistent warts, but histologically it may be suggestive of squamous cell carcinoma in situ. this unusual disorder and recent advances in our understanding of it are reviewed.
late outcome of survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest with left ventricular ejection fractions greater than or equal to 50% and without significant coronary arterial narrowing. in a retrospective survey of 1,195 survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation, 43 patients were identified in whom left ventricular ejection fraction was greater than or equal to 0.50 and in whom no coronary artery stenosis of greater than or equal to 50% luminal diameter were present. thirteen (30%) of these patients had hypokinesia on left ventriculography, and 20 patients (47%) had a persistently abnormal electrocardiogram. seven patients (16%) had recurrent out-of-hospital cardiac arrest during an average follow-up of 86 +/- 54 months. the presence of either wall motion or electrocardiographic abnormalities defined patients with a several-fold higher risk of recurrent cardiac arrest than those without such abnormalities. the risk for recurrent cardiac arrest within 5 years was 30% in those with abnormal electrocardiograms versus 5% in the others (p less than 0.03). age was an independent predictor of recurrent cardiac arrest in this group (p less than 0.01); surprisingly, recurrent cardiac arrest was occurring more often among younger patients. although cardiac arrest is unusual in patients without major structural heart disease, its recurrence in such survivors is common. patients at relatively high risk for recurrent ventricular fibrillation can be identified by their youth and by abnormalities detected on the surface 12-lead electrocardiogram or by contrast left ventriculography.
mechanical restraint use among residents of skilled nursing facilities. prevalence, patterns, and predictors the patterns of and risk factors for mechanical restraint use were determined in 12 skilled nursing facilities. restraints were being used for 59% of residents at the beginning of the study; 31% of remaining residents were restrained during the follow-up year. no facility characteristic was associated with restraint use. the resident characteristics independently associated with initiation of restraints were older age, disorientation, dependence in dressing, greater participation in social activities, and nonuse of antidepressants. unsteadiness (72%), disruptive behavior such as agitation (41%), and wandering (20%) were the most frequently cited reasons for initiation of restraints.
concomitant cisplatin chemotherapy and radiotherapy in advanced mucosal squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. long-term results of the radiation therapy oncology group study 81-17. one hundred twenty-four eligible patients with advanced mucosal squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were entered into a pilot study of concomitant cisplatin (100 mg/m2 given every 3 weeks for three doses) and standard irradiation. the initial complete response (cr) was 71% with an additional two cases salvaged by surgery for an overall 73% cr. when no keratin was identified in the histologic specimen (41 patients) the cr was 90%. the nasopharynx showed the best cr (89%) among the sites. at 4 years after treatment, the estimated locoregional tumor control rate was 43% and the survival, 34%. when no keratin was present in the specimen, the estimated locoregional control of tumor was superior (56% versus 38% with keratin identified, p = 0.02) and the estimated survival was also superior (48% versus 26%, p = 0.008). acute treatment-related toxicities included one death due to renal damage and two patients with life-threatening renal damage. the delivery of radiotherapy was not altered. late toxicity included necrosis -3%, fibrosis -4%, and one fistula. the results of this study justify a randomized trial for the comparison of this combination of cisplatin and radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone in advanced mucosal carcinomas of the head and neck.
colonic glycoproteins in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease. colonic glycoprotein composition was evaluated in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease using ion-exchange chromatography. fifty-three individuals, 12 pairs and 1 single twin with ulcerative colitis and 14 pairs with crohn's disease, were evaluated. seven twin pairs were concordant for the presence of ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease, whereas twin siblings of 10 ulcerative colitis probands and 9 crohn's disease probands were not known to have inflammatory bowel disease. content of one chromatographically defined component of colonic mucin, designated hcm species iv, was reduced in both patients with ulcerative colitis (1040 +/- 300 cpm/10,000 cpm total hcm) and their apparently healthy twins (1340 +/- 540 cpm/10,000 cpm total hcm) compared with control subjects (4030 +/- 1,000 cpm/10,000 cpm total hcm). composition of mucin in crohn's disease patients and their nonaffected twins was not significantly different than in controls. these observations suggest that altered profiles of mucin glycoprotein may be present before the onset of ulcerative colitis and may be genetically defined. conversely, it appears that alterations in glycoproteins only are not sufficient to initiate mucosal inflammation.
incidence of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis: application to prophylaxis of first bleeding. because several studies have suggested that beta blockers are effective in the prophylaxis of first variceal bleeding in cirrhosis, screening for oesophageal varices might be appropriate. we prospectively studied 84 cirrhotic patients without obvious evidence of large oesophageal varices and previous bleeding during a mean follow up of 16 months. at entry to the study 41 patients had no oesophageal varices and in 43 these were grade 1. the subsequent percentages of patients without large oesophageal varices were 74% at one year and 52% at two years. univariate analysis showed that a longer duration of cirrhosis (p less than 0.05) and grade 1 oesophageal varices at entry (p less than 0.001) were predictive factors for the occurrence of large oesophageal varices, whereas, multivariate analysis showed that the initial size of the oesophageal varices (p less than 0.001), a high initial child-pugh score, and a smaller improvement in child-pugh score during the study were independent risk factors. among patients with grades 0 and 1 oesophageal varices at the start of the study the proportions with large oesophageal varices at two years were 31% and 70% respectively. we have calculated that, accepting a maximum risk of first bleeding of 10% without prophylactic treatment, a patient without oesophageal varices should be screened endoscopically every other year, while a patient with grade 1 disease should benefit from one annual upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
an improved technique for development of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap. the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is the most commonly employed muscle skin transfer used in soft-tissue reconstruction of defects of the upper neck and jaw region. this article presents conceptual and technical changes in the development of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap that preserve a greater vascular pedicle and enhance the flap's arc of rotation. data from 54 consecutive cases using this modified approach show a reduction in complications, a greater range of use, and consistent healing in radiated and nonradiated tissues without requiring sectioning or removing the clavicle or causing significant chest deformities. these modifications have produced a more predictable transfer compared with other reported techniques.
antiplatelet drugs in femoropopliteal vein bypasses: a multicenter trial. to evaluate the influence of antiplatelet drugs on patency in femoropopliteal vein bypasses, 48 vascular surgeons recruited 549 patients to a randomized double-blind trial of aspirin (300 mg) + dipyridamole (150 mg) or placebo twice daily starting 2 days before surgery and continuing indefinitely. graft occlusion measured objectively by independent coordinators and cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction or stroke) were studied, expressed by life table, and analyzed statistically by log rank and confidence intervals (95% ci). randomization achieved comparable groups with 60% of grafts inserted for rest pain or gangrene. operative complications on aspirin plus dipyridamole included 18 reoperations for bleeding and 12 hematomas compared with 9 and 14, respectively, on placebo (ns). most of the 172 graft failures occurred early with failure rates of 43/1000 patient-months in the first 3 months, reducing to 17/1000 at 6 to 12 months, and under 10/1000 in subsequent years. cumulative graft patency on placebo was 72%, 62%, and 60% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively, compared with 78%, 70%, and 61% on aspirin plus dipyridamole. the difference in patency of 6.1% (95% ci, -3% to 15.5%) at 1 year and 8.0% (95% ci, -5% to 21%) at 2 years failed to achieve significance (p = 0.43). on mean follow-up of 34 months, 53 (132/1000 patient-years) cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident) occurred in patients on placebo compared with only 35 (73/1000) on aspirin plus dipyridamole, a significant difference of 59/1000 (p = 0.004). antiplatelet therapy had little influence on femoropopliteal vein patency, but subsequent myocardial infarction and stroke was reduced in these patients with peripheral vascular disease.
trends in systolic blood pressure, 24-hour sodium excretion, and stroke mortality in the elderly in belgium. data from six surveys of systolic blood pressure conducted in belgium between 1967 and 1986 were analyzed. the mean ages of the six groups of 3,328 subjects ranged from 70 to 81 years. the prevalence of systolic blood pressure levels above 159 mm hg decreased between 1967 and 1986 from 51% to 21% in men and 66% to 22% in women; severe hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 220 mm hg) nearly disappeared. during the same period, body mass index increased 1.1 kg/m2 in men and was unchanged in women; mean systolic blood pressure decreased from 159 to 142 mm hg in men and from 171 to 147 mm hg in women; the proportion of subjects receiving treatment for hypertension increased from 10% to 36% in men and from 18% to 41% in women; and the mean standardized 24-hour sodium excretion decreased from 265 to 188 mmol in men and from 208 to 160 mmol in women. systolic blood pressure levels were significantly and independently related to sodium excretion in the 1967 and 1972 studies. the decrease in systolic blood pressure in belgium was influenced by the combined effects of more and better treatment for hypertension and a decrease in sodium intake.
squamous cell carcinoma antigen (ta-4) in penile carcinoma. ta-4 antigen, originally isolated from women with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, is elevated in the sera of patients with squamous cell carcinomas of several sites, including esophagus, lungs, and head and neck. in this study, we compared the serum levels of ta-4 in normal volunteers, patients with resected penile squamous cell carcinoma, and patients with metastatic penile squamous cell carcinoma. ta-4 values were elevated in 5 of 11 patients (45%) who had metastatic disease. in 2, ta-4 was normal the first time metastasis was clinically detected but rose as the disease progressed. moreover, in 3 patients in whom serial determinations were made, serum ta-4 values correlated well with disease progression and response to treatment. we conclude that ta-4 values are elevated in some patients with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the penis and may become a useful marker for monitoring response to therapy.
daytime reduction of gastro-oesophageal reflux after healing of oesophagitis and its value as an indicator of favourable response to maintenance treatment. in order to investigate the response of gastro-oesophageal reflux after medically induced healing of oesophagitis and its relation to the occurrence of relapse during prophylactic treatment, 20 patients with erosive/ulcerative oesophagitis underwent 24 hour oesophageal ph monitoring before and after healing achieved with 12 to 24 week treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg twice daily. compared with pretreatment values, after macroscopic healing, a significant reduction in daytime median percentage of reflux time (10.0 v 6.5; p less than 0.05) and median number of reflux episodes lasting more than 5 minutes (5-5 v 1.0; p less than 0.05) were observed, whereas during night time reflux frequency and severity did not change. during maintenance treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg nocte, five of the six patients, who had shown no improvement in gastro-oesophageal reflux after acute healing, relapsed. these results suggest that, in contrast with previous work, a decrease in gastro-oesophageal reflux in patients with reflux oesophagitis can be achieved after macroscopic healing, and that the occurrence of such a reduction after acute healing is predictive of a good response to longterm treatment.
angioplasty of renal arteries: a report of ten year's experience. report of pta of renal arteries in 288 patients. primary results show good to optimal dilatation of the arteries (60.6% to 78.6%). one third of all cases achieved optimal blood pressures. in about 40% antihypertensive drugs had to be administered, in about 30% blood pressure remained unchanged although pta was effective. pta of renal arteries is the best method of treating renal hypertension, also because of the low rate of complications.
peroneal nerve palsy after total knee arthroplasty. the prognosis for peroneal palsy after total knee arthroplasty (tka) is poorly defined. twenty-six postoperative peroneal palsies occurred after 8998 tkas performed between 1972 and 1985. eighteen patients had complete and eight had incomplete peroneal palsies. twenty-three had both motor and sensory deficits, and three had only motor deficits. at an average of 5.1 years (range, one to 11 years) after arthroplasty, recovery was complete for 13 palsies and partial for 12. complete recovery was more likely in those palsies that were incomplete initially. patients with palsies that were initially partial had significantly higher knee scores than those with complete palsies, and patients whose eventual recovery was complete had significantly higher knee scores than those with incomplete recovery. this new prognostic information should be useful for surgeons who encounter this unfortunate yet persistent complication of tka.
human immunodeficiency virus-associated eosinophilic folliculitis. a unique dermatosis associated with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection. we studied 13 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and a chronic pruritic folliculitis that was unresponsive to systemic treatment with bactericidal anti-staphylococcal antibiotics. the skin eruption was characterized by multiple urticarial follicular papules scattered on the trunk (100%), the head and neck (85%), and the proximal aspect of the extremities (62%). absolute peripheral eosinophil counts were increased in six of 13 patients; a relative peripheral eosinophilia was present in 10 of 13 patients. serum ige levels were elevated in all seven patients tested (range, 88 to 9050 iu). histopathologic features included a folliculitis with eosinophils. pathogenic bacteria were not consistently found by routine bacterial skin cultures, cultures of skin biopsy specimens, or histopathologic evaluation. cd4 counts were decreased in all of the 12 patients tested (less than 300 cells per cubic millimeter) and were below 250 cells per cubic millimeter in 10 patients. a clinical response was noted to astemizole, to ultraviolet light in the b range, and to topical clobetasol propionate. these observations demonstrate that hiv-associated eosinophilic folliculitis is a unique hiv-related cutaneous disorder that is characterized by a culture-negative, chronic, pruritic folliculitis and a characteristic histopathologic picture. of special importance, because it is associated with cd4 counts of less than 250 to 300 cells per cubic millimeter, eosinophilic folliculitis appears to be an important clinical marker of hiv infection and, particularly, of patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections. we suggest that the term eosinophilic pustular folliculitis (ofuji's disease), previously used to describe this dermatosis in hiv-infected patients, should be discarded.
paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy: a treatable neuropathy. paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy has been recently described. we report the first case of this disorder which responded both clinically and electrophysiologically to cyclophosphamide treatment. a 54-year-old woman with a history of metastatic endometrial carcinoma in remission had asymmetrical polyneuropathy, electrophysiological findings consistent with a diffuse axonal neuropathy, high sedimentation rate and spinal fluid protein, and microvasculitis with axonal degeneration on nerve biopsy. the patient was treated with 150 mg of cyclophosphamide daily with gradual clinical and electrophysiological improvement.
psychologic and behavioral aspects of chronic headache. it is important for physicians to be aware of the expectations and psychologic needs patients have, to understand how psychologic and personality variables can impact care, to realize the importance of patient education, and to be cognizant of how environmental factors can influence headache pain behaviors. empirical data indicate that the nonpharmacologic treatments of biofeedback, relaxation, and stress coping training can serve as useful adjunctive or alternative procedures, and that the combined use of medication and nonpharmacologic treatments yields the greatest clinical outcome. certain headache types show minimal response to nondrug therapies alone (cluster, menstrual, and post-traumatic headache). age and personality variables have a bearing on nondrug treatment outcome as well.
diabetes mellitus and hypertension. hypertension and diabetes mellitus are chronic medical conditions that frequently coexist. in the united states, it is estimated that 10 million persons suffer from diabetes mellitus, 60 million from hypertension, and 3 million from the combination of the two. there may be a causal relationship between hypertension and diabetes. obesity may be a precipitating factor for both hypertension and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. those with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus generally become hypertensive only with the onset of nephropathy. glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and hyperinsulinemia frequently occur with essential hypertension and may be aggravated by hypertension therapy, especially with diuretics and beta-blockers. hyperinsulinemia may be an important common factor promoting sodium retention, sympathetic nervous system stimulation, and inhibition of the sodium pump. the working group on hypertension in diabetes has outlined a flexible modified version of the stepped-care approach to the treatment of hypertension in diabetes. management is complex because diabetes is associated with autonomic neuropathy, sexual dysfunction, hyperlipidemia, and fluid and electrolyte disorders. all these problems can be exacerbated by antihypertensive treatment. nonpharmacologic measures, which address weight reduction and sodium restriction, are logical, but aggressive antihypertensive medication is invariably necessary. diuretics and/or beta-blockers were the mainstay of treatment until the introduction of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers. these newer agents have no deleterious effects on carbohydrate metabolism and are generally better tolerated. antihypertensive therapy may slow the rate of deterioration in diabetic nephropathy. this was first shown with diuretics, beta-blockers, and hydralazine and more recently with ace inhibitors, which provide effective blood pressure control and a significant drop in albuminuria without affecting the glomerular filtration rate adversely. ace inhibition may also lead to increased insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal rate. long-term trials are needed to assess the effects of these new agents on the treatment of hypertension in the diabetic population.
hypomutability in fanconi anemia cells is associated with increased deletion frequency at the hprt locus. fanconi anemia (fa) is an inherited human disorder associated with a predisposition to cancer and characterized by anomalies in the processing of dna cross-links and certain monoadducts. we reported previously that the frequency of psoralen-photoinduced mutations at the hprt locus is lower in fa cells than in normal cells. this hypomutability is shown here to be associated with an increased frequency of deletions in the hprt gene when either a mixture of cross-links and monoadducts or monoadducts alone are induced. molecular analysis of mutants in the hprt gene was carried out. in normal cells the majority of spontaneous and induced mutants are point mutations whereas in fa deletion mutations predominate. in that case a majority of mutants were found to lack individual exons or small clusters of exons whereas in normal cells large (complete or major gene loss) and small deletions are almost equally represented. thus we propose that the fa defect lies in a mutagenic pathway that, in normal cells, involves bypassing lesions and subsequent gap filling by a recombinational process during replication.
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers. the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital. there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse, and in 41% of these, chronic alcoholism was implicated. deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11% of all cases. the mean age at death was 39 years. there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1. half of all patients died from infection--72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) alone. these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems. emphasis should be placed upon detecting "hidden" intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information.
high-protein ascites in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. diseases of the liver or peritoneum resulting in ascites have been infrequently reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. since 1985, eight noncirrhotic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presenting with new onset high-protein ascites have been evaluated. all but one patient had nondiagnostic paracentesis studies. laparoscopy with biopsy of identified abnormalities or percutaneous omental biopsy were diagnostic in four patients. non-hodgkin's lymphoma was the cause in three patients, and disseminated cryptococcosis occurred in one patient. in the four other patients, chronic nonspecific peritonitis was found at laparoscopy; follow-up of these latter patients, including exploratory laparotomy in one patient and autopsy in two patients, disclosed no specific cause. patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and high-protein ascites of uncertain etiology should undergo directed peritoneal evaluation as a potentially treatable disorder may be found. however, despite extensive evaluation, a subset of patients in whom no specific cause can be identified still remains.
a histological and flow cytometric study of dog brain endothelial cell injuries in delayed radiation necrosis. the pathogenesis of delayed cerebral radiation necrosis was studied histologically and biochemically in 25 dogs with special attention to vascular endothelial cell injuries. the dogs were sacrificed 3 to 30 months after irradiation with a single dose of 15 gy to the head. brain specimens were appropriately fixed for light and electron microscopic studies, and capillary endothelial cells were isolated for flow cytometric study. the endothelial cells were stained with acridine orange, then the cell ratios in the reproductive phase (s + g2 + m) were investigated with flow cytometry. thereafter, feulgen hydrolysis and computer analysis of the hydrolysis curves were performed to examine the qualitative changes in deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) of endothelial cells after irradiation. under light microscopy, spongy degeneration with small cell infiltration was observed, especially in the frontal white matter, at 6 months after irradiation. at 9 months, necrotic foci appeared and developed until 15 months after irradiation. blood vessels around the necrotic area showed luminal narrowing with endothelial hyperplasia and proliferation. at 30 months, no fresh necrotic lesions were observed. under electron microscopy, endothelial cells of capillaries and small vessels around the necrotic area showed an increase of pinocytosis, and in the nuclei there was an increase of infoldings and euchromatin. the cell ratios in the reproductive phase were 14.5% to 23.3% (maximum at 9 months) in the irradiated group compared to 6.4% in the control group. the rate constant of apurinic acid production, a parameter correlating with dna transcriptional activity, was minimum at 3 months and maximum at 9 months after irradiation. the data suggest that impairment of the microcirculation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of delayed radiation necrosis, and that the time of necrosis occurrence closely correlates with the cell cycle of vascular endothelial cells.
renal function in the elderly: results from the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly trial. effects of antihypertensive treatment on renal function were analyzed in data from a prospective, double-blind investigation of 840 patients randomly assigned to placebo or to active treatment with a combination of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. baseline serum creatinine levels were significantly and positively correlated to age, gender (higher in men), systolic blood pressure, and history of cardiovascular complications. during a five-year follow-up period, serum creatinine levels increased significantly in treated patients but not in placebo patients. five patients died of renal causes (one in the placebo group, four in the treated group), and five patients dropped out of the study because of an increase in serum creatinine of more than 100% (four received active treatment). the incidence of renal complications in the hypertensive elderly is small. the current data do not support the hypothesis that renal deterioration can be prevented by antihypertensive treatment.
lung sound nomenclature survey. we report the terms used by 223 pulmonary physicians and 54 physicians in other specialties to describe eight recorded examples of lung sounds. the participants listened to the lung sounds at the 1988 american college of chest physicians annual convention and wrote "free form" answers. pulmonary physicians used the terms "crackles" and "rales" with equal frequency to describe discontinuous adventitious lung sounds (als) and not at all to describe continuous als. other physicians preferred the term "rales" in describing discontinuous als. the terms "wheeze" and "stridor" were used only in describing continuous als; however, the term "rhonchi" was frequently used to describe continuous and discontinuous als. the majority of participants recognized the normal breath sounds but not the pleural friction rub. most did not use a qualifying adjective to describe als, and there was little agreement among those who did. the lung sound terminology used by physicians is not well standardized and the recommendations of the ats/accp nomenclature subcommittee are not widely accepted.
spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula: the "abdominal pain, hematuria, silent left kidney" syndrome. spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula (alrvf) is a rare occurrence; with this case, only 16 have been reported to date. common features in patients with alrvf include abdominal pain (81%), hematuria (100%), impaired renal function (85%), and nonvisualization of the left kidney (100%). less common but also present in the majority of cases are a left sided bruit (73%), pulsatile abdominal mass (63%), and proteinuria (50%). also important, 94% have a retroaortic left renal vein, unlike the six cases of traumatic alrvf that have been reported. this magnifies the diagnostic value of contrast abdominal computed tomographic scanning, which demonstrates not only the anomalous location of the left renal vein but also the abdominal aortic aneurysm and poor enhancement of the left kidney. these findings rule out the possibility of the "nutcracker syndrome" (left renal vein compression between aorta and superior mesenteric artery). although confirming the presence of a fistula by early caval opacification, aortography does not always distinguish alrvf from the more common aortocaval fistula. this can be accomplished by duplex scanning with deep probes and even preferably color coding of velocity signals. with such precise preoperative localization, surgical repair is relatively easy and safe.
prospective evaluation of a protocol for induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in patients referred to a tertiary centre. all eight stages of a stimulation protocol that used one then two extrastimuli from the right ventricular apex in sinus rhythm and three ventricular drive rates (100, 120, and 140 beats/min) were performed in 24 patients with recurrent spontaneous sustained ventricular tachycardia despite drug treatment. twenty two of the patients had sustained a previous myocardial infarct and 18 were on long term treatment with amiodarone. sustained (greater than 30 s) ventricular tachycardia was induced in all patients. two extrastimuli were significantly more likely to induce sustained ventricular tachycardia than one extrastimulus, both overall and individually for the three ventricular drive rates. a ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min was significantly more likely to induce ventricular tachycardia than ventricular drive rates of 100 and 120 beats/min which were significantly more effective than sinus rhythm. a ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min with one or two extrastimuli induced ventricular tachycardia in 23/24 (95%) of the patients in this study. the full eight stage protocol was progressive separately for both extrastimuli and ventricular drive rate but the last two stages (ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min with one or two extrastimuli) were as effective as the entire protocol in inducing ventricular tachycardia.
an immunofluorescence study of cerebral malaria. a correlation with histopathology. histopathologic and immunopathologic features of cerebral malaria have been defined in a study of six autopsy cases with severe plasmodium falciparum infection. in five cases, immunofluorescent studies demonstrated intense deposition of p falciparum antigen, igg, and fibrin in cerebral vessels associated with the histopathologic finding of hemorrhage in the white matter of cerebrum and cerebellum regardless of the presence of parasitized erythrocytes in the cerebral vessels. immunofluorescent study also demonstrated the extravascular deposits of p falciparum granular antigen associated with acute inflammatory lesion in cerebral tissue in one case. these findings suggested that the immunopathogenic mechanism may in some way play a role in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria.
antiepileptic drug monitoring at the epilepsy clinic: a prospective evaluation. to assess the value of on site therapeutic drug monitoring at the epilepsy clinic, management decisions were recorded before and immediately after antiepileptic drug (aed) concentrations became available. in the first year of this prospective study, 632 [277 carbamazepine (cbz), 170 phenytoin (pht), 113 valproate (vpa), and 72 phenobarbital (pb)] assays were performed during 488 clinic attendances in 182 actively managed epileptic patients. the results of drug analysis led to alterations in management at 114 patients visits, i.e., 23% of those monitored. dosage was increased in response to the circulating aed concentration in 12% of consultations and decreased in another 7.5%. unsuspected poor compliance was uncovered in eight patients, and in three others an aed was added or discontinued on the basis of the assay result. the time of the next appointment was rearranged in 58 attendances. only 50% of results were in the "therapeutic" ranges for the four major aeds. dosage was adjusted (50 up, 16 down) after 54% of low results. "therapeutic" levels were followed by a change in aed dose (52 up, 31 down) in 26%. only 29% of concentrations above the "therapeutic" range persuaded the doctor to alter the dosage regimen, and in 20% of these an increase in dose was recommended. on-site aed monitoring had an immediate impact on clinical decision-making in greater than 23% of consultations but in a form more subtle than the simple quest for a therapeutic result.
left ventricular hypertrophy in elderly hypertensive patients: a report from the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly trial. in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 840 elderly hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to treatment with a combination of hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene or placebo; methyldopa or matching placebo was added to the treatment regimen if blood pressures remained high. after adjustment for age, gender, and body mass index, initial electrocardiographic (ecg) voltage measures of ravl and sv1 + rv5 were significantly related to systolic blood pressure; ravl was also related to diastolic blood pressure. after one year of treatment, the decrease in ravl and sv1 + rv5 in the treated patients, adjusted for age and body mass index, were not correlated with the changes in systolic blood pressure, but the decreases in sv1 + rv5 were positively related to the decrease in diastolic blood pressure. after four years of treatment, the decreases in ravl and sv1 + rv5 were significantly and positively related to the decrease in systolic blood pressure after adjustment for age and changes in body mass index. in a four-year cohort of 222 patients, most of the decreases in ecg voltages in the treated patients and the increases in the placebo patients were found to have occurred during the first year of treatment. the type of treatment (diuretics alone or diuretics plus methyldopa) did not affect ecg voltages during the first year of follow-up. total and cardiovascular mortality were related to initial amplitude of ravl, but the significant correlation disappeared after adjustment for age.
residual atrial septal perforation after percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy with inoue balloon catheter. to estimate the incidence of residual atrial septal perforation (asp) following percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (ptmc) with the inoue balloon catheter and to examine the factors contributing to asp, we studied 46 patients with mitral stenosis undergoing ptmc. residual asp was evaluated by doppler color flow imaging 1 day after ptmc, and was detected in 7 out of 46 patients (15.2%). we examined the relationship between the development of asp (asp+) and the age of the patient, the left atrial dimension before ptmc, the mean pressure difference between left and right atrium after ptmc, and the duration of the procedure from atrial septal puncture by the brockenbrough method to balloon inflation. there was a good correlation between the development of residual asp and the duration of the procedure (asp+, 51.0 +/- 34.0 minutes; without asp, 24.6 +/- 16.2 minutes; p less than 0.01). however, there was no significant correlation between the development of asp and other factors. in the follow-up study, asp disappeared in four patients within 3 months. asp persisted in two patients for 1 year after ptmc. however, the shunt in these two patients was clinically insignificant. these data suggest that residual asp may depend on the duration of the procedure, and that most cases of asp disappear within 1 year after ptmc.
neurophysiological observations on corticospinal projections to the upper limb in subjects with rett syndrome. the aim of the present study was to investigate the excitability of corticospinal neurons and the integrity of their projections to the alpha motor neurons through the corticospinal tract in subjects of different ages with rett syndrome. electromagnetic stimulation of the motor cortex and cervical motor roots was used to evoke motor action potentials in the biceps brachii and hypothenar muscles. the phasic stretch reflex in the biceps brachii was also recorded to study the excitability of spinal alpha motor neurons. motor cortex stimulation evoked motor action potentials at low threshold and with abnormally short latencies and prolonged durations. in contrast cervical motor root stimulation resulted in responses of normal latency and duration. the phasic stretch reflex had a low threshold, short latency and prolonged duration. it is concluded that in rett syndrome the corticospinal pathway is intact. the results suggest disordered synaptic control of the betz cell of the motor cortex and/or the spinal alpha motor neuron, although the involvement of the latter might be a consequence of dysfunction in supraspinal descending motor pathways.
the predictive value of intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis and magnetic resonance imaging in acute isolated syndromes for subsequent development of multiple sclerosis. the intrathecal synthesis of igm in patients presenting with acute monosymptomatic syndromes may be relevant in predicting eventual progression to multiple sclerosis but has not been previously evaluated. we undertook a prospective 18-month combined clinical, cerebrospinal fluid, and magnetic resonance imaging study of 45 patients who had presented with acute isolated lesions of brainstem and spinal cord to evaluate the predictive value of intrathecal synthesis of igm and igg (through the detection of cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands) and magnetic resonance imaging brain lesions at presentation, for the subsequent progression to multiple sclerosis. results indicate that the highest risk of developing multiple sclerosis is seen in patients who are positive for oligoclonal igm and igg bands and who have disseminated cerebral white matter magnetic resonance imaging lesions at the initial presentation. oligoclonal igm bands predict progression to multiple sclerosis more frequently than oligoclonal igg or magnetic resonance imaging alone. our results confirm and further extend previous reports, and indicate that detection of cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal igm bands at presentation is a valuable prognostic indicator in patients presenting with acute isolated brainstem or spinal cord syndromes.
pulmonary blastoma with malignant melanoma component. pulmonary blastomas are rare primary tumors that consist of tubular or glandular structures embedded in an undifferentiated mesenchymal stroma. focal cartilage, bone, and skeletal muscle as well as squamous differentiation have been described in these tumors. we report a unique case of a pulmonary blastoma showing a malignant melanoma component. immunohistochemical stains for s100 protein and hmb-45 were positive in the areas of melanocytic differentiation.
misplaced caval filter and subsequent pericardial tamponade. use of the greenfield filter for partial caval interruption is generally accepted as the most reliable mechanical method of pulmonary embolus prophylaxis. however, there have been reports of a variety of (usually nonfatal) complications. we report here the near-fatal complication of acute pericardial tamponade after misplacement of a greenfield filter. because of the filter's unusual location, retrieval required cardiopulmonary bypass, profound hyperthermia, and circulatory arrest.
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure: a retrospective study. we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications, laboratory data and therapeutic interventions. the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness (40.7%) and convulsions (35.1%). when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1.73 m2, alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1.73 m2, abnormal convulsives appeared. changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension. all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months, and six of them had hemodialysis. fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome. these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child.
national general practice study of epilepsy: newly diagnosed epileptic seizures in a general population. the national general practice study of epilepsy is a prospective population-based cohort study of 1195 patients with newly diagnosed or suspected epileptic seizures. at the time of initial classification (6 months after notification), 104 patients were excluded. of the remaining 1091 patients, 220 (20% [95% confidence interval 18-23%]) had febrile seizures, 564 (52% [49-55%]) definite epileptic seizures, and 228 (21% [19-23%]) possible epilepsy. in the definite epilepsy group the proportions of males and females were similar, 25% (21-28%) were younger than 15 years and 24% (21-28%) were 60 years or older. the definite seizures were classified as cryptogenic in 62% (58-66%), remote symptomatic in 21% (18-25%), and acute symptomatic in 15% (12-18%). the aetiology of epilepsy was vascular disease in 15% (12-18%) and tumour in 6% (4-8%). among older subjects the proportion with an identifiable cause was much higher: 49% (41-58%) were due to vascular disease and 11% (6-16%) to tumour. only 252 (45% [41-49%]) of the 564 patients with definite epileptic seizures were registered at the time of their first seizure. 52% (48-56%) of the patients had partial or secondarily generalised seizures, and only 39% (35-43%) seizures generalised from the outset.
when do optic disc edema and peripheral neuropathy constitute poetry? [clinical conference] a patient with chronic, bilateral optic disc edema developed multiple systemic manifestations of poems syndrome (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, m-protein, skin changes). a serum immunoelectrophoresis showed an abnormal serum igg lambda protein, and urine immunoelectrophoresis revealed a monoclonal lambda protein plus an igg lambda fragment. bone survey and mri scan revealed a sclerotic lesion of the first lumbar vertebra, and lymph node biopsy showed changes consistent with castleman's disease. thus, his optic disc edema was the presenting feature of the poems syndrome and osteosclerotic myeloma.
body water measurement in growth disorders: a comparison of bioelectrical impedance and skinfold thickness techniques with isotope dilution. total body water was estimated as part of the assessment of body composition in children with growth disorders, using the newly commercially available method of bioelectrical impedance. this was undertaken to compare the precision and accuracy of the results with those derived from skinfold thickness against measurement of stable isotopically labelled water (h2(18)o) dilution as a standard. the comparisons were carried out to see to what extent the impedance method could be applied with confidence to assessment of children with growth disorders. total body water was derived from impedance (i) using an association with height (ht2/i). impedance and skinfold thickness estimates of total body water were equally precise when compared with values obtained from h2(18)o dilution (limits of agreement -1.9 to +1.3 and -1.7 to +2.0 kg respectively). the mean intraobserver coefficient of variation for repeat measurements of impedance was 0.9% compared with 4.6% for skinfold thickness with an interobserver coefficient of variation for impedance of 2.8%. bioelectrical impedance estimation of body composition is likely to be of value in the growth clinic when expertise in measurement of skinfold thickness is limited or repeated measurements are to be undertaken by different observers.
outcome of cataract surgery in central india: a longitudinal follow-up study. an epidemiological follow-up study of patients who had intracapsular cataract extraction in a voluntary hospital and its associated eye camps in central india has for the first time evaluated the outcome one year after surgery in terms of visual acuity, use of spectacles, and improvement in income and mobility. the findings indicate that under these fairly typical conditions, 92% of the cases have adequate vision of 6/18 or better one year after surgery. information on high usage of spectacles and on considerable improvements in income and mobility after cataract surgery is also reported. the outcome for patients operated upon in eye camps was almost as favourable as for those operated upon in hospital. although the small differences are not statistically significant, the comparative findings require cautious interpretation and give rise to the epidemiological issues which are briefly discussed in this paper.
decrease in cerebral metabolic rate of glucose after high-dose methotrexate in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia. we measured changes in the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rcmrglu) using 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography for the assessment of neurotoxicity in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia treated with high-dose methotrexate (hd-mtx) therapy. we studied 8 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (mean age: 9.6 years) treated with hd-mtx (200 mg/kg or 2,000 mg/m2) therapy. cmrglu after hd-mtx therapy was most reduced (40%) in the patient who had central nervous system leukemia and was treated with the largest total doses of both intrathecal mtx (it-mtx) and hd-mtx. cmrglu in the whole brain after hd-mtx therapy was reduced by an average of 21% (p less than 0.05). the reductions of cmrglu in 8 patients were correlated with total doses of both it-mtx (r = 0.717; p less than 0.05) and systemic hd-mtx (r = 0.784; p less than 0.05). cmrglu of the cerebral cortex, especially the frontal and occipital cortex, was reduced more noticeably than that of the basal ganglia and white matter. we suggest that the measurement of changes in rcmrglu after hd-mtx therapy is useful for detecting accumulated mtx neurotoxicity.
pain experiences of intensive care unit patients. the purpose of this study was to describe various dimensions of the pain experiences of intensive care unit (icu) patients. a purposive, primarily surgical sample of 24 icu patients from two hospitals was interviewed after transfer from icu. all but one patient remembered their icu stay. although this and six other patients had no recall of pain, 63% of the sample rated their pain as being moderate to severe in intensity. in a subgroup of nine patients having cardiac surgery, mean morphine sulfate administration during the first three postoperative days was 14 mg/day. this group of patients reported a lack of total pain relief from analgesics. patients also described various sources of their pain, difficulties they had in communicating their pain, and nonpharmacologic methods that helped relieve their pain. results of this study clearly indicate that not only pain but its communication and treatment were significant problems for a substantial portion of this icu sample. further descriptive and experimental research of pain characteristics and treatment practices for icu patients is urgently needed. improvements in nursing practice that result from such research may make a substantial difference in the comfort and well-being of critically ill patients.
analysis of interleukin 2 and various effector cell populations in adoptive immunotherapy of 9l rat gliosarcoma: allogeneic cytotoxic t lymphocytes prevent tumor take. recombinant interleukin 2 (ril-2) and various effector cell populations were used for adoptive immunotherapy in the fischer strain 9l rat gliosarcoma model. the in vivo cytotoxicities of nonspecifically activated lymphocytes and specifically activated cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) were assessed in a modified in vivo neutralization (winn) assay. effector cells (10(6)) and 9l tumor cells (10(5] were combined with 10(4) units of ril-2 and stereotactically implanted into the right frontal centrum semiovale of the fischer (f344) rat. at 7 and 14 days, additional effector cells (10(6] and ril-2 (10(4) units) were administered through the same burr hole. nonspecifically activated splenocytes were lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells, both plastic-adherent and nonadherent, whereas specifically activated ctls were either syngeneic (genetically identical) or allogeneic (genetically dissimilar). syngeneic ctls were t lymphocytes from fischer rats primed in vivo with 9l cells and restimulated in vitro. allogeneic ctls were generated by exposing da rat lymphocytes either to irradiated fischer lymph node cells or to 9l fisher tumor cells in vitro. control groups included rats bearing 9l tumor who were untreated, those who received peripheral (i.p. or s.c.) administration of ril-2, or those who received syngeneic unstimulated t lymphocytes and ril-2. for a set of animals given the same inoculum of 9l tumor, significantly improved survival was shown for groups treated with nonadherent or adherent lak cells (p less than or equal to 0.0003), syngeneic ctls (p = 0.0327), or allogeneic ctls (p = 0.0025) over untreated control animals by using mantel-haenzel nonparametric logrank equations. only treatment with allogeneic ctls prevented tumor take.
calcium absorption in bone disease associated with chronic cholestasis during childhood. fractional absorption of calcium was determined in 9 children aged 4.9 to 16.9 yr with chronic cholestatic liver disease to determine the role of calcium malabsorption in the development of metabolic bone disease. radiological evidence of rickets was absent in all patients, but bone density, measured by single beam photon absorptiometry of the distal radius, was reduced in eight of nine subjects. serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations were normal in all except one subject. serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration was decreased compared with controls in only one of nine patients, but serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentrations were diminished in seven of nine subjects. in all subjects, dietary calcium and phosphorus intakes were greater than 80% of the rda. fractional absorption of calcium, determined by oral and intravenous administration of stable calcium isotopes, was similar in cholestatic compared with control subjects (37.1% +/- 12.5% vs. 34.0% +/- 16.4%). in the cholestatic subjects, calcium absorption correlated with serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d (r = 0.871, p less than 0.002) but not 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentrations. calcium balance, assessed by the duplicate diet method, was positive in four of five subjects. anthropometric measurements were performed to examine the relationship between nutritional status and bone mineral content. heights of all subjects were less than or equal to the 10th percentile and fat stores and somatic protein stores were less than the 25th percentile in six of nine subjects. we conclude that factors other than calcium malabsorption and decreased serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration contribute to diminished bone mass in children with cholestatic liver disease.
pharmacological versus non-pharmacological prophylaxis of recurrent migraine headache: a meta-analytic review of clinical trials. in order to generate information about the relative effectiveness of the most widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions for the prophylaxis of recurrent migraine (i.e., propranolol hcl and combined relaxation/thermal biofeedback training), meta-analysis was used to integrate results from 25 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of propranolol and 35 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of relaxation/biofeedback training (2445 patients, collectively). meta-analysis revealed substantial, but very similar improvements have been obtained with propranolol and with relaxation/biofeedback training. when daily recordings have been used to assess treatment outcome, both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have yielded a 43% reduction in migraine headache activity in the average patient. when improvements have been assessed using other outcome measures (e.g., physician/therapist ratings), improvements observed with each treatment have been about 20% greater. in both cases, improvements observed with propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have been significantly larger than improvement observed with placebo medication (14% reduction) or in untreated patients (no reduction). meta-analysis thus revealed substantial empirical support for the effectiveness of both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback training, but revealed no support for the contention that the two treatments differ in effectiveness. these results suggest that greater attention should be paid to determining the relative costs and benefits of widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments.
pulmonary embolism presenting as exercise-induced hypotension. a 68-year-old man with remote history of previous myocardial infarction presented with a four-week history of intermittent dyspnea. after developing hypotension during an exercise tolerance test, he underwent cardiac catheterization, revealing significant pulmonary hypertension and two-vessel coronary artery disease. pulmonary angiography confirmed the presence of pulmonary emboli which partially resolved after thrombolytic therapy. subsequent treadmill testing confirmed the absence of exercise-induced hypotension two months following treatment. this case underscores the importance of considering pulmonary embolism as a potential cause of exercise-induced hypotension, since it can be successfully treated with thrombolytic agents weeks after the initial onset of symptoms.
capillary prolactin measurement for diagnosis of seizures. measurement of serum prolactin levels can be useful in the diagnosis of epilepsy, since prolactin levels often rise after seizures, but not after most imitators of epilepsy. utility of the test is limited by the need to obtain blood 10 to 20 minutes after the episode. the present study documents the validity of prolactin measurements using capillary blood, which was obtained by the finger-stick method after a possible seizure and then applied to filter paper. venous and capillary prolactin levels were determined 10 to 20 minutes after seizure-like episodes in 20 patients who were studied in an epilepsy monitoring unit. venous and capillary prolactin values correlated, with a pearson coefficient of 0.90. using a criteria of any elevation above the laboratory upper limit of normal, capillary prolactin values correctly identified seizure versus pseudoseizure in 9 (100%) of 9 patients with generalized tonic-clonic seizures, in 5 (71%) of 7 patients with complex partial seizures, and 4 (100%) of 4 patients with pseudoseizures. prolactin values were unaffected by leaving filter paper samples at room temperature for up to 1 week. this study suggests the utility of diagnostic capillary blood collection kits to assist in the diagnosis of epilepsy in outpatients.
impaired exercise capacity in adults with moderate scoliosis. we measured lung function and exercise tolerance in 15 adults with moderate kyphoscoliosis (thoracic curvatures between 25 degrees and 70 degrees, mean +/- sd = 46.93 degrees +/- 14.02 degrees). forced vital capacity showed a slight reduction from values predicted from age and sex matched control subjects (3.39 +/- 1.06 vs 4.06 +/- 0.82 l, p less than 0.05). however, exercise tolerance was significantly lower than previously reported in healthy adults (vo2max = 31.60 +/- 9.12 vs 37.07 +/- 4.91 ml/kg/min, p less than 0.05). despite the reduced exercise tolerance, the ratio of maximum tidal volume to vital capacity (vtmax/vc) was similar to that observed in healthy adults. the mean dyspnea index (vemax/mvv) was also normal at 69.4 +/- 19.0. hypoxic and hypercapnic ventilatory responses were within predicted normal limits at 0.67 +/- 0.37 l/min-1 fall in sao2-1 and 1.67 +/- 0.92 l/min-1 mm hg pco2(-1). we conclude that the impairment of exercise performance found in adults with moderate scoliosis cannot be attributed to any important ventilatory limitation, abnormality in lung volume, or impaired chemoreceptor sensitivity. we suggest that the reduced vo2max likely arises from deconditioning and lack of regular aerobic exercise.
mammography and early breast cancer detection. screening mammography has been shown to reduce breast cancer mortality. both film-screen mammography and xeromammography are highly sensitive and specific. mammography accreditation programs assure physicians and patients that a facility provides mammography of the highest quality, using the lowest possible radiation dose. mammographic signs of early cancer include a small mass, calcifications, architectural distortion and a neodensity. dense tissue may result in a false-negative examination even when a cancer is palpable, with adverse effects if biopsy is delayed.
febrile infants less than eight weeks old. predictors of infection. febrile infants less than eight weeks old frequently are admitted and receive parenteral antibiotics for treatment of possible sepsis. the authors assess 52 infants less than eight weeks old with a rectal temperature of 38.1 degrees c or higher as having either a readily identifiable focus of infection by physical examination, appearing "toxic" without a focus, or appearing well. the authors screened patients by using white blood cell (wbc) counts, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr), c-reactive protein (crp), and chest radiographs in addition to blood, cerebrospinal fluid and urine cultures. the authors found a 9.6% incidence of bacteria in the 52 infants evaluated, with a 4.3% incidence in those febrile infants who appeared well. five patients had positive blood cultures with group b b hemolytic streptococcus (four patients), and viridans streptococcus (one patient). a clinical assessment of toxicity and a total band count greater than or equal to 0.5 x 10(3) cells/ul together were sensitive indicators of bacteremia, as were toxicity and a positive crp. a "toxic" appearance, a wbc count greater than or equal to 15 x 10(3) cells/ul and an esr greater than 30 were specific indicators of bacteria. based on these data, identification of bacteremia in febrile infants may be possible with clinical assessment and screening laboratory tests. because of the relatively small sampling size of this study, the authors feel that evaluation of a larger number of patients is warranted to evaluate these sensitivities in a more diffuse patient population.
differential reading recovery in patients with severe to moderate closed head injury. a differential recovery was seen when alternate forms of a nationally standardized test of reading vocabulary, literal reading comprehension and inferential reading comprehension was administered serially to 10 consecutive closed head injury admissions to a university rehabilitation hospital. inferential reading comprehension was the most impaired and had the fastest recovery rate. subtle cognitive deficits in inferential reading comprehension were detected when reading vocabulary was at or better than a twelfth grade level. maximal recovery of all three reading functions occurred within 4 months after trauma, with most occurring in the first 3 months. the reading recovery pattern parallels the recovery of intelligence scores in the literature.
selective evaluation and management of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. a 16-year experience. reduction of cardiac mortality associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair remains an important goal. five hundred consecutive urgent or elective operations for infrarenal nonruptured aaa were reviewed. patients were divided into three groups based on preoperative cardiac status: group i (n = 260, 52%), no clinical or electrocardiographic (ecg) evidence of coronary artery disease (cad); group ii (n = 212, 42.2%), clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered stable after further evaluation with studies such as dipyridamole-thallium scanning, echocardiography, or coronary arteriography; group iii (n = 28, 5.6%), clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered unstable after further evaluation. group i had no further cardiac evaluation and groups i and ii underwent aaa repair without invasive treatment of cad. group iii underwent repair of cardiac disease before (n = 21) or coincident with (n = 7) aaa repair. in all instances, perioperative fluid volume management was based on left ventricular performance curves constructed before operation. the 30-day operative mortality rate for aaa repair in all 500 patients was 1.6% (n = 8). there was one (0.4%) cardiac-related operative death in group i, which was significantly less than the five (2.4%) in group ii (p less than 0.02). total mortality for the two groups were also significantly different, with one group i death (0.4%) and seven group ii deaths (3.3%), (p less than 0.02). these data support the conclusions that (1) the leading cause of perioperative mortality in aaa repair is myocardial infarction, (2) correction of severe or unstable cad before or coincident with aaa repair is effective in preventing operative mortality, (3) patients with known cad should be investigated more thoroughly to identify those likely to develop perioperative myocardial ischemia so that their cad can be corrected before aaa repair, and (4) patients with no clinical or ecg evidence of cad rarely die of perioperative myocardial infarction, and thus selective evaluation of cad based on clinical grounds in aaa patients is justified.
a clarification on endodontic flare-ups [comment] in an article on endodontic flare-ups by robert j. matusow, our research and publications are discussed. since we found what we consider to be distortions and misinterpretations of our work, it was decided to clarify the apparent discrepancies found in matusow's article.
gastrointestinal disease and oral contraception. oral contraceptive steroids play a major role in modern family planning. with the present tendency to decrease the doses of both estrogens and progestogens, any factor that reduces the bioavailability of the lower-dose preparations may have an impact on contraceptive protection. although ethinyl estradiol, the most commonly used oral estrogen, is liable to an enterohepatic circulation as unchanged drug, the commonly used progestogens are not. at present, no convincing evidence exists in the human subject that disruption of the enterohepatic circulation by antibiotics or antacids does reduce contraceptive efficacy of the pill. oral contraceptive steroids are mainly absorbed from the small bowel, and contraceptive efficacy depends on its absorptive capacity. enhanced passage of gastrointestinal contents or impaired absorption may thus contribute to contraceptive failures in patients who have chronic inflammatory disease, diarrhea, ileostomy, or jejunoileal bypass.
pregnancy associated with gorlin's syndrome. a pregnant woman with gorlin's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours. the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure. this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production.
resistance to d-tubocurarine in lower motor neuron injury is related to increased acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction the hypothesis that lower motor neuron injury, with its associated proliferation of acetylcholine receptors (achr), induces resistance to the neuromuscular effects of d-tubocurarine (dtc) was tested in the rat. the left gastrocnemius was denervated by a 75-80% lesion of the sciatic nerve. the effective dose for 95% twitch depression (ed95) was studied in the denervated gastrocnemius and compared to the contralateral undenervated and sham-injured (control) gastrocnemius muscles approximately 2 weeks after injury. the achr number was quantitated by the specific ligand 125i-alpha-bungarotoxin (125i-alpha-bt). plasma dtc concentrations, measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc), were correlated to twitch tension during spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular blockade in the denervated animal. the ed95 (mean +/- se) of dtc for the denervated leg was significantly (p less than 0.05) higher (0.26 +/- 0.06 mg.kg-1) than contralateral (0.16 +/- 0.03) and sham-operated left (0.13 +/- 0.03) legs. the twitch tension recovered to 50% of control twitch height at significantly (p less than 0.05) higher plasma dtc concentrations in the denervated (0.78 micrograms.ml-1) compared to contralateral (0.24 micrograms.ml-1) limb. the achr number was significantly increased in the denervated limb (1041 +/- 96 fmol.mg protein-1) compared to contralateral right (109 +/- 4) and control left limb (113 +/- 11). there was a significant (p less than 0.05) positive correlation (r2 = 0.73) between ed95 and achr number; that is, 73% of the variability in ed95 could be explained by changes in achr. this study, therefore, confirms the hypothesis that proliferation of achr after nerve denervation results in resistance to the neuromuscular effects of dtc.
coronary angioplasty of diffuse coronary artery disease. from january 1983 through december 1987, 98 patients underwent angioplasty of at least one diffusely diseased coronary artery. diffuse coronary disease was described as: group i, narrowing greater than or equal to 50% that involved the entire vessel (40 patients), group ii, long lesions greater than or equal to 2 cm in length (39 patients), group iii, three or more lesions in the same vessel (19 patients). there were 65 men and 33 women, with a mean age of 60 years; 64 patients (65%) had unstable angina, 23 patients (23%) were diabetic, 31 (32%) had prior myocardial infarctions, and 12 had prior bypass surgery. multivessel disease was present in 89% of patients. angioplasty of only the diffusely diseased vessel was performed in 41 patients, and additional vessels were dilated in 57 patients. overall, of 396 lesions (four per patient) and 197 vessels (two per patient) attempted, success was achieved in 382 lesions (96%) and 187 vessels (95%); angiographic success was achieved in 112 of 120 diffusely diseased vessels (93%). clinical success was achieved in 91 patients (93%). the overall complication rate (death, myocardial infarction, urgent bypass surgery) was 8% (8 of 98): six patients (6%) had myocardial infarction (one q wave, five non-q wave), one patient (1%) had urgent bypass surgery, and two patients (2%) died (one during bypass surgery). the majority of complications (7 of 8 or 87%), including the two deaths, occurred in group i patients, with a 17.5% rate, versus 2.5% in group ii and 0% in group iii, p less than 0.002.
detection of hepatitis b virus dna by polymerase chain reaction in plasma of volunteer blood donors negative for hepatitis b surface antigen. plasma samples from 206 volunteer blood donors were tested for hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna by dot blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction (pcr). all donors were negative for hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) and had normal serum alanine aminotransferase levels. none of the 206 plasma samples was positive for hbv dna by dot blot hybridization assay. however, nine samples were positive for hbv dna by pcr using two primer pairs specific for surface and core regions. nine persons received the hbv-dna-positive plasma, and one developed posttransfusion non-a, non-b hepatitis; the others remained well 6 months later. therefore, approximately 4% of blood donors in taiwan have low titers of hbv dna, and a more sensitive method to screen donors may be needed in the future, although the current serologic test remains the most practical at present.
lower extremity weakness as the initial manifestation of lung cancer [published erratum appears in arch phys med rehabil 1991 jan;72(1):61] a 55-year-old woman had progressive lower extremity weakness. she had an 80-pack-per-year history of cigarette smoking. electromyographic findings were consistent with the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome. despite a normal chest x-ray, normal laboratory studies, and negative bronchoscopy, investigation for lung cancer was pursued. the final thoracotomy and pathology reports indicated a diagnosis of oat cell carcinoma. after treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, clinical and electrophysiologic findings have resolved. two years after diagnosis, the patient remains in good health without evidence of recurrence.
a standard heparin nomogram for the management of heparin therapy. a nomogram for the adjustment of heparin dosage was developed to standardize heparin therapy and to reduce delays in achieving and maintaining a therapeutic activated partial thromboplastin time (aptt) result. fifty consecutive patients with acute venous thromboembolism had their continuous intravenous heparin therapy adjusted according to this heparin nomogram. the effect of the nomogram on heparin therapy in these patients was compared with data from 53 historical control patients. the proportion of patients in the nomogram group who reached a therapeutic aptt at 24 hours after the start of heparin therapy was 66%, which increased to 81% at 48 hours. in contrast, 37% and 58% of the control patients reached a therapeutic aptt at 24 and 48 hours, respectively. the percentage of therapeutic aptt results of the total number of aptt determinations was greater in the nomogram patients than controls. the use of this heparin nomogram resulted in (1) achieving a therapeutic aptt at 24 and 48 hours in a large proportion of patients and (2) reduced periods of inadequate anticoagulation and overanticoagulation during heparin therapy.
two discharge patterns of carotid body chemoreceptors in the goat. twenty-nine single carotid body chemoreceptor units recorded during normocapnic normoxia from 20 anesthetized goats were classified into two groups by discharge pattern. thirteen fibers, which had interspike interval distributions with a prominent peak [24.0 +/- 9.8% (sd)] at 0- to 20-ms bin, were termed bursting fibers (bf). the 16 remaining fibers were termed nonbursting fibers (nbf); these had no notable peak in the interval distributions. during hypoxia and hypercapnia, the chemoreceptor fibers continued to discharge in their established patterns. the interval distribution of most nbf spike trains could be described with the poisson process, but none of the bf could be. however, except for the intervals in the range of 0-20 ms, the interval distribution of the bf could be described as exponential. this study suggests that 1) there are two distinct populations of the goat chemoreceptor fiber, each with an inherent discharge pattern; 2) the chemoreceptor did not code information about arterial po2 and pco2 in different patterns; and 3) the basic chemotransduction mechanism is likely the same in bf and nbf, and the difference in discharge pattern is more likely to reflect processes downstream from the transducer.
the encased ureter: bullet and bodkin pattern, a reliable radiographic sign. among the causes of constricted ureter is benign or malignant encasement. the diagnosis of ureteric encasement is frequently overlooked, even by well informed clinicians and radiologists. the most common benign cause is retroperitoneal fibrosis and the most frequent malignant causes are extension from an adjacent primary tumour, true metastases to the ureter and lymphoma. lack of recognition of the process may lead to mistaken diagnosis of an inflammatory stricture or infiltrating transitional cell tumour, with resultant inappropriate management. a sign which appears to be almost specific for encasement, the bullet and bodkin configuration, is described here. newer imaging modalities such as computed tomography and ultrasound, while helpful, are probably less sensitive and less specific than the retrograde ureterogram because a detectable mass is not always present.
cerebral infarction: early detection by means of contrast-enhanced cerebral arteries at mr imaging. the authors describe a new magnetic resonance (mr) imaging sign of acute cerebral ischemia/infarction. abnormally contrast material-enhanced curvilinear structures were demonstrated in eight patients in the evolving area of cerebral ischemia/infarction within 26 hours after the ictus on contrast-enhanced, high-field-strength (1.5-t), t1-weighted spin-echo images. the abnormal enhancement is considered to represent cortical arterial vessels of markedly slowed circulation in areas of underlying brain injury, which will eventually progress to frank brain infarction. this was demonstrated at computed tomographic (ct) and follow-up mr examinations. characteristically, the degree of the contrast enhancement of vessels appeared most intense in the proximal portions, and the intensity of enhancement gradually diminished in the more distal portions of these vessels as they pass over the convexities and finally disappear.
intraspinal transplants. transplants of embryonic central nervous system tissue have long been used to study axon growth during development and regeneration, and more recently to promote recovery in models of human diseases. transplants of embryonic substantia nigra correct some of the deficits found in experimental parkinson's disease, for example, by mechanisms that are thought to include release of neurotransmitter and reinnervation of host targets, as well as by stimulating growth of host axons. similar mechanisms appear to allow intraspinal transplants of embryonic brainstem to reverse locomotor and autonomic deficits due to experimental spinal cord injuries. embryonic spinal cord transplants offer an additional strategy for correcting the deficits of spinal cord injury because, by replacing damaged populations of neurons, they may mediate the restoration of connections between host neurons. we have found that spinal cord transplants permit regrowth of adult host axons resulting in reconstitution of synaptic complexes within the transplant that in many respects resemble normal synapses. transplants of fetal spinal cord may also contribute to behavioral recovery by rescuing axotomized host neurons that otherwise would have died. electrophysiological and behavioral investigations of functional recovery after intraspinal transplantation are preliminary, and the role of transplants in the treatment of human spinal cord injury is uncertain. transplants are contributing to our understanding of the mechanisms of recovery, however, and are likely to play a role in the development of rational treatments.
fludarabine phosphate: a synthetic purine antimetabolite with significant activity against lymphoid malignancies. fludarabine phosphate is the 2-fluoro, 5'-monophosphate derivative of vidarabine (ara-a) with the advantages of resistance to deamination by adenosine deaminase (ada) and improved solubility. the mechanism of cytotoxic action of the compound appears to involve metabolic conversion to the active triphosphate. fludarabine phosphate has substantial activity against lymphoid malignancies, particularly chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) and low-grade non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl). its single-agent activity in cll appears at least comparable to those of other conventional combination regimens. its activity in hodgkin's disease, mycosis fungoides, and macroglobulinemia, although suggestive, needs to be further defined and clinical trials are warranted in hairy cell leukemia, prolymphocytic leukemia, and previously untreated myeloma. the compound does not appear active against most common solid tumors. early clinical trials indicated significant myelosuppression and the potential for severe neurotoxicity. toxicity on the currently used low-dose schedules includes transient and reversible myelosuppression, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, somnolence/fatigue, and elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum creatinine. possible pulmonary toxicity has been suggested in several patients. the currently used low-doses of fludarabine phosphate, even with repeated administration, are well tolerated and appear safe with a negligible risk for severe neurotoxicity. based on its single-agent activity and tolerability, the food and drug administration recently granted group c designation of the drug for the treatment of patients with refractory cll outside the clinical trials setting. the use of fludarabine phosphate in combination regimens and its impact on the natural history of the lymphoid malignancies is yet to be determined. fludarabine phosphate may well occupy a pivotal role in the management of cll and low-grade nhl.
iatrogenic illness in pediatric critical care. iatrogenic illness may be an important determinant of the need for pediatric intensive care. we prospectively evaluated consecutive admissions to a pediatric icu (picu) over two time periods totaling 6 months. twenty-five (4.6%) admissions were necessitated by iatrogenic illnesses. drug-induced conditions accounted for eight (32%) of the iatrogenic patients, and complications of medical-surgical acts accounted for 17 (68%). diagnoses included six respiratory failures due to seizure medications, six chronic upper airway complications of neonatal intensive care, four posttonsillectomy and postadenoidectomy complications, two chronic postcardiac surgery complications, two cardiac catheterization complications, and five miscellaneous conditions. one (3.7%) patient with iatrogenic illness died. as a group, patients with iatrogenic illness were at a risk of dying similar to other patients. we conclude that iatrogenic illness is a significant cause of picu admission.
alternative technique for repair of sinus venosus atrial septal defect. a technique is described for closure of a sinus venosus atrial septal defect using a single patch held in place by sutures placed from outside the right atrium and underneath the superior vena cava. the superior vena cava does not require enlargement and potential damage to the artery to the sinoatrial node is avoided.
effects of calcium channel blockers on coronary vasoconstriction induced by endothelin-1 in closed chest pigs. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of endothelin-1 on the coronary vascular bed of closed chest pigs. endothelin-1 (3 to 30 pmol/kg body weight) was selectively administered into the left anterior descending coronary artery. coronary blood flow and epicardial vessel diameter were measured by quantitative arteriography. arterial pressure increased after a 30 pmol/kg dose and heart rate was not changed. coronary blood flow and vessel diameter of the left anterior descending artery significantly decreased by 74% and 32%, respectively (p less than 0.01 versus control) after the 30 pmol/kg dose, whereas these variables modestly decreased in the left circumflex artery. endothelin-1 in doses of 10 to 30 pmol/kg produced electrocardiographic st segment elevation associated with decreased oxygen saturation of coronary sinus venous blood. endothelin-induced coronary vasoconstriction was significantly inhibited after treatment with intravenous diltiazem (0.2 mg/kg, n = 6) or nifedipine (0.1 mg/kg, n = 5), but not after vehicle administration (n = 4). this study demonstrates that intracoronary administration of endothelin-1 causes significant myocardial ischemia through coronary vasoconstriction, which is inhibited by a calcium channel blocker. the data suggest that calcium influx into the smooth muscle cells appears to be involved at least in part in the mechanism of endothelin-induced coronary vasoconstriction in vivo.
selective myectomy for postparetic facial synkinesis. synkinetic movements are secondary to facial palsy because they appear like a late sequela to spontaneously healing facial nerve injury. they are produced by an involuntary contraction of a muscle group simultaneous with contraction of other homologous muscle groups. the disorderly regeneration of severed axons is responsible for these movements. according to the lippschitz theory, the regenerating nerve fibers sprout into the wrong peripheral branches. between 1975 and 1986, 71 patients with facial paralysis were evaluated. spontaneous recovery from the facial paralysis occurred in 28 of these patients; 14 (50 percent) developed synkinetic movements, and surgical treatment was sought by only 6 patients. in all patients, the lesion of the facial nerve was in the trunk, proximal to the principal ramification. the most frequent clinical finding was simultaneous activation between the orbicularis oculi and the elevators of the corner of the mouth (12 patients) or the elevators of the upper lip (2 patients). in 8 patients, in whom the slight synkinesis was not noticed by the patients, surgical correction was not necessary, but in the other 6 patients with severe aesthetic disturbances, surgical treatment for "disconnection" of the wrong impulses was realized. i obtained this "disconnection" through resection of the involved perioral muscle groups instead of paralysis of the orbicularis oculi. follow-up of the 6 patients operated with the surgical treatment proposed herein for between 4 and 8 years has shown good aesthetic results without functional or aesthetic sequelae.
effects of nisoldipine on myocardial ischemia during exercise and during daily activity. the antiischemic properties of nisoldipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, were assessed in a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial by repeated exercise testing and 72-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in 82 patients with coronary artery disease. patients with positive treadmill stress test results and greater than or equal to 2 ischemic episodes per 24 hours were included in this study. administration of all chronic antiischemic medications except beta blockers were discontinued. during the first week all patients received placebo twice daily. during the second and third weeks, 41 patients received nisoldipine 10 mg and 41 patients received placebo twice daily. in the placebo group there were no changes in exercise parameters or in ambulatory electrocardiographic parameters. in the nisoldipine group, exercise duration increased from 403 to 448 seconds (p = 0.0035), time to 1 mm of st depression increased from 224 to 298 seconds (p = 0.002), time to pain increased from 241 to 321 seconds (p = 0.01), and maximal st depression was reduced from 2.6 to 2.3 mm (p = 0.002). among the ambulatory electrocardiographic parameters in the nisoldipine group, only the number of episodes was reduced, from 14.4 to 11.6 (p = 0.0013) per patient. there was no significant reduction in total ischemic time (132 vs 120 minutes per patient). no significant side effects were observed. this is the largest clinical trial to date on the effects of nisoldipine on myocardial ischemia. the results indicate that nisoldipine was effective in improving all exercise parameters and only partially effective in suppressing ischemia during daily activity.
preclinical pharmacology of celiprolol: a cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist and mild vasodilator. celiprolol is a new antihypertensive agent that represents a new generation of beta-blockers. it combines cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonism (beta 1) with a mild vasodilation via vasoselective beta-adrenergic agonism (beta 2). results of animal studies show that celiprolol has beta 1-antagonist potency similar to that of propranolol and atenolol, and cardioselectivity slightly greater than that of atenolol. celiprolol does not produce bronchoconstriction but has mild propranolol-resistant bronchodilatory properties in cats. the compound also relaxes vascular smooth muscle in a propranolol-sensitive fashion, suggesting a mechanism of beta 2-agonism. the beta 2-agonism results in a selective downregulation in beta 2-receptor number and response in tissue culture, as well as in peripheral tissue from celiprolol-treated volunteers. the decreases in beta 2-receptors are blocked by concomitant treatment with propranolol. celiprolol is devoid of cardiac depressant activity and in fact has mild cardiostimulatory actions. the cardiostimulation is not via beta 1-stimulation, since it is not abolished by beta-blocking doses of propranolol. in a model of severe myocardial ischemia, celiprolol attenuates the ischemia-induced myocardial acidosis and improves the regional segment function. these results are suggestive of myocardial protection. in summary, celiprolol distinguishes itself from other beta-blockers by virtue of its cardioselectivity, vasorelaxation via beta 2-agonism, and the lack of bronchoconstriction and cardiodepression. these properties observed in animal studies have also been documented in clinical trials.
clinicopathologic features of hepatocellular carcinoma in young patients. to investigate clinicopathologic characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) in young adults, excised tumors from 21 patients younger than 45 years (young group) were compared with findings in tumors from 204 patients older than 45 (old group). in the young group hcc showed (1) a high incidence of positive hepatitis b virus surface antigen (hbsag) (young 71.4% versus old 20.1%); (2) relatively well-preserved hepatocellular function (indocyanine green test; young 10.7 +/- 8.8% versus old 20.6 +/- 10.8%); (3) low incidence of histologically verified concomitant cirrhosis (young 52.4% versus old 78.4%); and (4) a more advanced stage of the disease in tnm classification (stage iii; young 52.4% versus old 18.1%). with respect to survival rates achieved by surgery, there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups. thus, hepatitis b virus may relate to the occurrence of hcc in the young patients. despite the advanced stage in the young group, survival rate after surgery was comparable with that achieved in the old group. these observations mean that a close periodic surveillance of young adults with a positive hbsag is required to detect hcc at an early stage. treatment of patients with hbsag using interferon or vidarabine and hepatitis b vaccine should be made to convert hbsag to negative in these individuals.
the relation of pain to depression among institutionalized aged. nursing home and congregate apartment residents (n = 598) were classified on the basis of a dsm-iiir symptom checklist as suffering possible major, minor, or no depression; they also completed the geriatric depression scale (gds) and the profile of mood states (poms). possible major depressives reported more intense pain and a greater number of localized pain complaints than did minor depressives; nondepressed individuals reported the least intense pain and fewest localized complaints. the effect remained strong even when functional disability and health status were controlled statistically. both pain intensity and number of localized complaints were correlated with gds and poms factor scores, but strength and direction of associations varied with level of depression. item-by-item examination of localized complaints again indicated that more depressed individuals were more likely to report pain, particularly where physicians had identified a physical problem that might account for the pain. results are compared with previous research on pain among younger individuals. implications for treatment of depressed elderly are discussed.
antibodies to epstein-barr virus in iridocorneal endothelial syndrome. antibody titers to epstein-barr virus were determined in 13 patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and in 13 healthy race-, age-, and sex-matched controls. both the geometric mean titer of igg antibodies to the epstein-barr virus capsid antigen and the proportion with high titers of igg antibodies to the epstein-barr virus capsid antigen (greater than or equal to 1:640) were significantly higher in 12 seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome than in 12 seropositive controls (1/761:1/202, p = .001; 83.3%:8.3%, p less than .001). ten of 12 seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and five of 12 seropositive controls had antibodies to epstein-barr virus-induced early antigens (greater than or equal to 1:10) (fisher's exact test, p less than .05), while four seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and one seropositive control had low to undetectable levels of antibodies to epstein-barr virus-associated nuclear antigen (less than or equal to 1:5) (p greater than .1). antibody levels to cytomegalovirus or measles virus were not different between patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and controls. additional studies showed no evidence of humoral immune disorder or collagen vascular disease in the patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome. the serologic profiles suggest that the patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome examined had a cellular immune abnormality sufficient to permit reactivation of latent epstein-barr virus infection and imply, but do not establish, a role for epstein-barr virus infection in the pathogenesis of some cases of the iridocorneal endothelial syndrome.
evaluation of endosonography in tn staging of oesophageal cancer. strategies for the treatment of cancer of the oesophagus depend on the tumour stage at the time of diagnosis. resection, the only curative treatment, is confined to early tumour stages. tumours with local infiltration are usually unresectable and require palliative treatment. computed tomography has been widely used for preoperative staging but often fails to define this correctly. endoscopic ultrasound allows direct visualisation of the parietal wall and may be useful in staging gastrointestinal tumours. in a comparative prospective study, 52 patients with tumours of the oesophagus were investigated preoperatively both by endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography to determine the stage of tumour infiltration and local lymph node involvement. thirty seven of these patients underwent operation, resection, or dissection and entered the study. the intraoperative findings or the histopathological assessment, or both, were taken as a reference. for all tn stages of oesophageal tumours, correct preoperative staging was accomplished by endoscopic ultrasound in 89% for t stage and 69% for n stage compared with 51% and 51% respectively by computed tomography (highly significant using fisher's exact test). this study shows that endoscopic ultrasound is useful in preoperative tn staging of tumours of the oesophagus.
thromboxane receptor blockade prevents pulmonary hypertension induced by heparin-protamine reactions in awake sheep we used competitive thromboxane a2-prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor blockade (sq 30,741) as a probe to evaluate the role of thromboxane in ovine pulmonary vasoconstriction associated with protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation. control heparin-protamine reactions induced rapid release of thromboxane into arterial plasma (more than 1 ng/ml plasma), a 2.5-fold increase of pulmonary artery pressure, a 20% decrease of pao2, and a 30% reduction in arterial white blood cell concentration. after giving sq 30,741 despite similar thromboxane release into arterial plasma after heparin-protamine challenge, acute pulmonary hypertension was significantly reduced when 94% of pulmonary vascular smooth muscle thromboxane receptors were occupied with sq 30,741 (p less than 0.01 at 1 minute after protamine versus control heparin-protamine reaction) and was completely abolished by a 10 mg/kg i.v. bolus (p less than 0.0001 at 1 minute after protamine versus control). peripheral leukopenia was not affected by sq 30,741 prophylaxis, but hypoxemia was prevented. we conclude that thromboxane causes pulmonary vasoconstriction in ovine heparin-protamine-induced pulmonary hypertension. pulmonary vasoconstriction and hypoxemia can be completely prevented by thromboxane receptor blockade.
acute and long-term changes in serum lipids after acute stroke. we studied serum lipid profiles in 171 patients less than or equal to 48 hours after the onset of acute stroke and 3 months later. the 83 patients suffering cerebral infarction had significantly higher serum concentrations of total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and apolipoprotein b and significantly lower serum concentrations of triglycerides and lipoprotein (a) less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus than 3 months later. the lipid profiles of the 53 patients suffering lacunar infarction were similar on both occasions, the only significant differences being higher total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus. no significant changes were observed among the 35 patients suffering cerebral hemorrhage apart from a significantly higher concentration of high density lipoprotein3-cholesterol less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus. our study, with many patients classified according to stroke subtype, gives results different from those of previous studies with much fewer patients. we conclude that in studies of serum lipid and lipoprotein concentrations as risk factors for cerebral infarction, comparing values obtained less than or equal to 48 hours after admission with control values may incorrectly identify certain lipid fractions as risk factors.
synovial membrane histology and immunopathology in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. in vivo effects of antirheumatic drugs. we examined the histologic and immunopathologic features of the synovial membrane of 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and 12 patients with osteoarthritis (oa) who had undergone total knee arthroplasty. patients were classified into 5 groups according to therapeutic regimen and disease: ra treated with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (nsaids), ra treated with nsaids and prednisone, ra treated with nsaids and methotrexate (mtx), oa treated with analgesics, and oa treated with nsaids. there were no significant between-group differences in the percentages or the distribution pattern of the infiltrating t cell subsets (cd4, cd8), hla-dr, or interleukin-2 receptor-bearing cells. however, inflammatory indices, which included the thickness of the lining cell layer and the density of the mononuclear cell infiltrate, were significantly higher in the ra patients treated with prednisone and those treated with mtx (p less than 0.05). similarly, fibrosis was markedly reduced in these 2 groups. the ra patients treated with nsaids alone and the 2 groups of patients with oa demonstrated similar profiles. these data suggest that prednisone and mtx may inhibit the development of fibrosis without altering the subsets of the inflammatory cell population. this observation raises the possibility that the action of these 2 drugs may be partly mediated by the suppression of inflammatory mediators that are responsible for fibroblast activation.
clinical analyses and short-term prognoses of neonates with subependymal cysts. twenty-one neonates with subependymal cysts detected by neurosonography soon after birth were prospectively examined. the clinical and cranial sonographic findings were evaluated with respect to short-term prognosis. the prognosis was poor in 6 patients with congenital viral infection (4 with cytomegalovirus infection and 2 with rubella infection). five patients also had neurodevelopmental abnormalities (2 with neonatal epileptic seizures, 2 with chromosomal abnormalities, and 1 with lissencephaly). the remaining 10 patients had normal psychomotor development. the incidence of congenital viral infection was statistically correlated with a poor neurodevelopmental outcome. a correlation did not exist between the short-term prognosis and each of the other clinical factors or cranial sonographic findings. our evidence suggests that further investigation of possible subependymal cyst etiologies is required during a careful, long-term follow-up period.
effects of prostaglandin i2, superoxide dismutase, and catalase on ischemia-reperfusion injury in liver transplantation. this study evaluated the effects of a prostaglandin i2 analogue (apgi2), superoxide dismutase (sod), and catalase (cat) on hepatic injury after warm ischemia and reperfusion in terms of survival, mitochondrial function, serum enzymes, and histology. hepatic ischemia was created in rats by clamping the hepatoduodenal ligament for 90 min with splenofemoral bypass. reperfusion was induced by unclamping the vessels and disconnecting the splenofemoral bypass. then apgi2 (350 ng/kg/min) was infused for 60 min just before hepatic ischemia, and sod and cat (5,000 units/kg each) were administered immediately before the start of reperfusion. serum enzyme and mitochondrial function assessments of livers were made just after ischemia, and after 2 hr of reperfusion. survival rate was also assessed in a separate group of rats. liver enzymes such as sgot, sgpt, and ldh showed no correlation to liver viability. the administration of apgi2 alone showed no effect on ischemically injured mitochondria; however, the free radical scavengers (sod, cat), in combination with apgi2, showed significant improvement of mitochondrial function together with extension of survival. the ultrastructure of hepatocytes was better preserved in the treated groups. these agents improved the viability of ischemic-reperfused injured livers.
the frequency of uterine leiomyomas. as a leading cause of hysterectomy in premenopausal women. uterine leiomyomas are a major public health problem. however, very little work has been done on their epidemiology. indeed, their true frequency has never been established using systematic and meticulous methods. in this study, gross serial sectioning at 2-mm intervals was applied as an adjunct to routine pathology processing in 100 consecutive total hysterectomy specimens. this tripled the number of leiomyomas noted in routine pathology reports. there were 649 leiomyomas in 77 of 100 uteri, with multiplicity of leiomyomas in 84%. although leiomyomas were more numerous and larger in women with a clinical diagnosis of myomatous uterus, the incidence was no higher than in uteri removed for other reasons. the postmenopausal incidence of leiomyomas was no lower than the premenopausal incidence, although postmenopausal leiomyomas were smaller and fewer. these findings suggest that epidemiologic studies of leiomyomas may not be valid if they are based only on clinical diagnoses or routine pathology reports.
endovascular management of arterial intimal defects: an experimental comparison by arteriography, angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasonography. to determine the feasibility of the endovascular management of intimal defects while comparing the accuracy of arteriography with angioscopy and intravascular ultrasonography, we developed an in vivo model of arterial intimal flaps. in 10 superficial femoral arteries of five anesthetized mongrel dogs, intimal flaps were constructed and then imaged by arteriography, angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasound. a flexible microbiopsy forceps was used to remove each intimal flap under angioscopic guidance. arteriographic lumen diameters were measured and cross-sectional areas calculated. corresponding measurements by angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound with reduction in luminal area at the flap were obtained by use of computerized planimetry. uniplanar arteriography identified 60% (6/10) of the intimal flaps, whereas angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound demonstrated 100%. lumen diameter (in millimeters) measured by arteriography (3.4 +/- 0.6) correlated significantly with measurements by angioscopy (3.5 +/- 0.5, r = 0.77) and intravascular ultrasound (3.5 +/- 0.6, r = 0.96). similarly, lumen area (square millimeters) by arteriography (9.2 +/- 2.9) correlated with measurements by angioscopy (8.9 +/- 2.2, r = 0.82) and intravascular ultrasound (8.6 +/- 2.7, r = 0.91). reduction in lumen area by the flap by angioscopy (37 +/- 7%) and intravascular ultrasound (33 +/- 8%) also correlated significantly (r = 0.72). the intimal flaps were removed successfully in all 10 arteries as confirmed by arteriography, angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasound. we conclude that the endovascular management of intimal defects is possible. additionally, angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound accurately evaluate lumen diameter and area while providing direct assessment of intimal defects.
how ancient is temporal arteritis? realism is one of the characteristics of amarnian art; some details of the harpist represented in the tomb of pa-aton-em-heb (1350 bc, 18th dynasty) might gives clues to a diagnosis: the eyes are closed with swollen lids, and the harpist appears to stare into space; he is round shouldered with a very wasted face, his temporal ara is heightened and hollowed by a broken line joining the extremity of the eyebrow with the corner of the eye. these details are not found elsewhere. did the harpist's blindness result from temporal arteritis associated to polymyalgia rheumatica?.
genotypic analyses of richter's syndrome. the authors report the immunogenotype of two cases of richter's syndrome. the immunoglobulin gene rearrangement pattern obtained on southern blot analysis was found in both cases to be the same in leukemic blood cells and in the tissue involved by the lymphoma. the beta chain and gamma chain t-cell receptor gene rearrangement pattern exhibited a germ-line configuration in the peripheral blood cells and in the lymph node in case 2, whereas in case 1 the lymph node had a gene rearrangement in the beta chain, as well as in the gamma chain t-cell receptor, and the leukemic cells from bone marrow were found to be in a germ-line configuration for t-cell receptors (beta and gamma chains).
anesthesia for craniotomy: a double-blind comparison of alfentanil, fentanyl, and sufentanil. using a prospective, randomized, and double-blind study design, alfentanil (n = 15), fentanyl (n = 14), or sufentanil (n = 16), in combination with n2o, were administered to patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial tumor resection. physicians were given two syringes, one of which was labeled as "load" for the initial loading dose and the other as "maintenance" for continuous infusion. the concentration of drug in each syringe was adjusted to permit administration on a milliliter per kilogram basis. the target loading doses for alfentanil, fentanyl, and sufentanil were 75, 10, and 1 microgram/kg, respectively, and initial infusion rates were 33.5, 2.0, and 0.3 microgram.kg-1.h-1, respectively. additional supplementary boluses and changes in maintenance infusion rate were made according to predetermined guidelines. isoflurane, in increasing 0.2% inspired increments, was used only when the maximum allowed opioid dose had been given (i.e., supplementary bolus doses equal to 75% of the calculated loading dose or supplementary bolus doses equal to 50% of the calculated loading dose combined with a 50% increase in the maintenance infusion rate). opioid infusions were stopped at the time of bone flap replacement. antihypertensive medications and naloxone were subsequently given at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. group demographics were not different. total volumes of drug were similar among groups indicating equipotent preparations. administration of isoflurane, antihypertensive medications, and naloxone were not different among groups. although decreases in blood pressure seen with induction were similar among groups, alfentanil-treated patients received ephedrine more frequently before intubation. thirty minutes after entry into the postanesthesia recovery area, respiratory rate and ph were lowest in sufentanil-treated patients.
influence of organ environment on extracellular matrix degradative activity and metastasis of human colon carcinoma cells orthotopic implantation of human colon carcinoma cells is useful for studying the behavior of metastatic subpopulations. we observed that the parental line and variants of human colon carcinoma km12 cells were all tumorigenic following implantation into the subcutis or cecal wall of balb/c nude mice. their ability to metastasize to distant organ sites varied, however, with the site of growth. subcutaneous (sc) tumors did not produce visceral metastases, whereas cecal tumors metastasized to the regional mesenteric lymph nodes and to the liver. to examine the influence of organ environment on the extracellular matrix-degrading activity of the tumors, we inoculated human colon carcinoma cells into the subcutis or cecal wall and after 7 weeks isolated and cultured the tumors in serum-free medium. the conditioned media of sc tumors contained very low levels of type iv collagenase (gelatinase) and heparanase (heparan sulfate-specific endo-beta-d-glucuronidase), whereas the media of the cecal wall tumors contained high levels of both. zymograms of the media revealed that the intracecal human colon carcinomas secreted more than three times the amount of latent and active forms of 92-kd type iv collagenase than did the sc tumors. moreover, only the conditioned media of intracecal tumors contained latent and active forms of 64-kd type iv collagenase. histochemical analysis using rabbit antiserum raised against the synthetic peptides of 72-kd procollagenase type iv showed type iv collagenase in the intracecal tumors; human colon carcinoma growing sc, however, were not stained significantly. these results suggest that factors in the organ environment may affect production and secretion of tumor extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes, and these factors may modify the metastatic behavior of human colon carcinoma cells in nude mice.
the role of adrenalectomy in cushing's syndrome. forty-four patients with cushing's syndrome were treated by adrenalectomy between 1975 and 1989. twenty patients had adrenal adenomas: 13 with obvious cushing's syndrome and 7 whose disease was subclinical, detected after evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass (es). twelve patients underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for cushing's disease after failed transsphenoidal explorations and pituitary irradiation. six patients had primary adrenal hyperplasia, five as manifestations of carney's complex. two others underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone from carcinoid tumors. four patients had adrenocortical carcinoma treated with transabdominal adrenalectomy. three are alive from 8 years to 5 months. there was one postoperative death (2.3%) caused by coagulopathy and multiple organ failure and three (7%) minor postoperative complications. follow-up showed good to excellent results in 95% of patients. it is concluded that adrenalectomy provides prompt relief from the severe morbidity of cushing's syndrome regardless of the cause. it is the treatment of choice for adrenal adenomas, carcinomas, primary hyperplasia, and selected patients with cushing's disease.
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute: case report. a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute. in 1983, the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura. five years later, he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule, which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically.
severe thrombocytopenia after paracetamol overdose. two patients with severe thrombocytopenia after paracetamol overdose are described. the platelet count was lowest two days after the overdose. neither leucopenia nor anaemia occurred.
single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor. a case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented. the rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed, as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion.
single versus double indicator dilution measurements of extravascular lung water. objective: to compare a simplified method of measuring extravascular lung water (evlw) using only a single indicator (evlw-si) with the standard double indicator dilution technique (evlw-di). design: direct comparison of evlw-si with evlw-di in 18 critically ill patients. setting: a general medical icu in a university-affiliated hospital. patients: nine men and nine women, ages 19 to 80 yr. six patients were in shock (four from septic shock), and 11 were in respiratory failure. interventions: evlw-di and cardiac output were measured in triplicate during injection of cold indocyanine green dye. cardiac output was calculated both from pulmonary artery (copa) and femoral artery (cofem-di) thermal dilution signals. evlw-si and cofem-si were also measured during three additional injections of cold saline using only thermal signals from the pulmonary and femoral arteries. order of measurements was random. evlw-si was measured in ten patients while blood was withdrawn through the femoral catheter and in ten patients without blood drawn through the femoral catheter. measurements and main results: a total of 84 comparisons were made. although the overall correlations were good (r2 = .86), evlw-si systematically overestimated evlw-di (p less than .05). this difference was greater when evlw-si was measured without blood withdrawal through the femoral catheter. in this subgroup, mean values for evlw by the two methods were within 20% of one another in only two of ten patients, in contrast to the results in six of eight patients in which blood was withdrawn through the catheter. cofem-si and cofem-di also overestimated copa. conclusions: theoretically, neither injection of green dye nor blood withdrawal should be necessary during measurements of evlw-si, making it a simpler technique for bedside use than evlw-di. however, significant discrepancies exist between the two techniques. some of this difference is apparently due to technical factors related to catheter design. in any case, we cannot recommend use of the single indicator dilution technique at present to estimate evlw.
delayed, exsanguinating pelvic hemorrhage after blunt trauma without bony fracture: case report. we present a case of a young man who developed a delayed, life-threatening hemorrhage after blunt pelvic trauma. he did not have a bony fracture. successful management of the hemorrhage with angiographic embolization and the complex subsequent course are discussed.
neuromuscular function in polio survivors at one-year follow-up [published erratum appears in arch phys med rehabil 1991 mar;72(3):213] many polio survivors complain of progressive loss of strength, work capacity, endurance, and ability to recover from fatiguing activity. these variables were measured initially and one year later in the quadriceps muscles of 28 symptomatic and 16 asymptomatic persons who had polio and 38 control individuals. peak knee extension torque was measured isokinetically and isometrically. endurance, or the amount of time the subject could maintain isometric torque at 40% of maximal torque, was measured. work capacity was determined as the product of isometric torque and endurance time. recovery of strength was measured at regular intervals for ten minutes after the endurance test. statistical analysis was done by repeated measures anova. although the initial measures showed significant deficits in mean peak torque, work capacity, and recovery of strength in symptomatic postpolio subjects, no significant changes were found one year later in any of the variables. we conclude that symptomatic postpolio subjects do not lose significant neuromuscular function in one year.
physical activity, opportunity for reinfection, and sibling history of heart disease as risk factors for chagas' cardiopathy. a case-control study was conducted to examine whether physical activity, sibling history of heart disease (hhd), and length of residence in an area endemic for chagas' disease were associated with the risk of developing chagas' cardiopathy. two hundred forty-seven cases of chagas' heart disease and 345 seropositive subjects with normal ecg (controls) were selected in a population survey in goiania, brazil. prevalence ratios for exposure variables were estimated for cases in relation to controls and for subgroups of seropositives with selected ecg abnormalities in relation to controls. increasing age and male sex were consistently and significantly related to an increased risk of ecg abnormalities. hhd was significantly associated with ecg alterations in 3 of the 5 comparison subgroups (any ecg alteration, right bundle branch block, and left anterior hemiblock). no association was found between length of residence in an area endemic, physical activity, and ecg abnormalities. a sample of 529 seronegative subjects were also examined and the interaction between exposure variables and seropositivity was tested to assess whether the associations found were specific for seropositives. males were at greater risk of any ecg alteration and left anterior hemiblock in relation to females if they were seropositive. an increasing risk of ventricular premature beats with age was clearer for seropositive than for seronegative subjects. subjects with hhd were at an increased risk of ecg abnormalities and this was greater in those with a positive serological test (p less than 0.05). the findings suggest a possible geographical clustering or a familial aggregation of cases of chagas' heart disease.
constipation: pathophysiology and treatment. although many physicians consider constipation a trivial problem, it is one of the most frequent and chronic digestive disorders in the united states, affecting 4.53 million people and causing considerable morbidity. more than $200 million are spent for over-the-counter laxatives and untold millions of dollars are spent for prescription drugs and other medical services to manage this disorder. successful management requires an appreciation of the magnitude of the problem, an understanding of colorectal function and a clear assessment of the causes. careful examination of the patient's anorectal anatomy and improvement in the patient's dietary habits are the first steps in management. therapeutic options include behavioral modification strategies, diet and lifestyle changes, pharmacologic therapy and, rarely, surgical intervention.
do life events or depression exacerbate inflammatory bowel disease? a prospective study. objective: to determine whether depressed mood or life events are associated with an exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease. design: a prospective study of a consecutive sample of patients with relapsing inflammatory bowel disease, followed by monthly questionnaires and periodic office visits. setting: a referral-based gastroenterology clinic at a medical school. patients: a consecutive sample of 32 patients with inflammatory bowel disease who had had at least one relapse in a 2-year period after entry into the study. measurements and main results: the social readjustment rating scale (measuring life events), the beck depression inventory (a visual analog scale for depressed mood) and an inventory of intestinal symptoms were completed monthly by each subject with a 78% rate of compliance. a mean of 2.2 exacerbations was seen per subject during the study period. life events were not temporally associated with changes in intestinal symptoms. significant associations were found between intestinal symptoms and the two mood scales (p less than 0.05 for each), but no directionality in symptom occurrence could be detected in a time-lagged analysis. the results were similar when the months preceding exacerbations of inflammatory bowel disease were analyzed separately. conclusions: although these findings suggest that mood changed concurrently with exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease, no evidence indicated that stressful life events or depressed mood precipitated exacerbations in this study group.
does increased detection account for the rising incidence of breast cancer? background: the incidence of breast cancer has been increasing over time in the united states. methods: to determine the role of screening in this increase, trends in the incidence of in situ and invasive carcinoma of the breast were evaluated using records of the metropolitan atlanta seer program between 1979 and 1986. from a sample of records, evidence of symptoms and mammographic screening prior to diagnosis was recorded. results: the average annual age-adjusted incidence of invasive disease rose 29 percent among whites and 41 percent among blacks. incidence increased in all age groups. a trend towards earlier detection of invasive disease was found. asymptomatic tumors accounted for only 40 percent of the increased incidence among whites and 25 percent of the increased incidence among blacks, with mammography as the principal contributing procedure. conclusions: these data suggest that increased detection accounts for some but not all of the rising incidence of breast cancer in the united states.
bone mineral loss in young women with amenorrhoea. objective--to examine the impact of amenorrhoea on bone mineral density in women of reproductive age. design--cross sectional study of 200 amenorrhoeic women compared with normally menstruating controls. setting--teaching hospital outpatient clinic specialising in reproductive medicine. subjects--200 women aged 16-40 with a past or current history of amenorrhoea from various causes and of a median duration of three years, and a control group of 57 age matched normal volunteers with no history of menstrual disorder. main outcome measure--bone mineral density in the lumbar spine (l1-l4) as measured by dual energy x ray absorptiometry. results--the amenorrhoeic group showed a mean reduction in bone mineral density of 15% (95% confidence interval 12% to 18%) as compared with controls (mean bone mineral density 0.89 (sd 0.12) g/cm2 v 1.05 (0.09) g/cm2 in controls). bone loss was related to the duration of amenorrhoea and the severity of oestrogen deficiency rather than to the underlying diagnosis. patients with a history of fracture had significantly lower bone density than those without a history of fracture. ten patients had suffered an apparently atraumatic fracture. conclusions--amenorrhoea in young women should be investigated and treated to prevent bone mineral loss. menopausal women with a past history of amenorrhoea should be considered to be at high risk of osteoporosis.
regulation of fibrillar collagen types i and iii and basement membrane type iv collagen gene expression in pressure overloaded rat myocardium. left ventricular hypertrophy is based on cardiac myocyte growth. the hypertrophic process can be considered heterogeneous based on whether it also includes a remodeling and accumulation of fibrillar types i and iii collagens that are responsible for impaired myocardial stiffness. in the heart, the messenger rna (mrna) for fibrillar collagen types i and iii has been detected only in cardiac fibroblasts, whereas mrna for basement membrane collagen type iv is present in both fibroblasts and myocytes. we studied the early and long-term expression of these collagenous proteins in rat myocardium after abdominal aortic banding with renal ischemia. complementary dna probes for rat pro-alpha 2 (i), mouse type iii and mouse type iv collagens, and chicken beta-actin were used. northern and dot blot analysis on total rna extracted from left ventricular tissue indicated a sixfold increase in steady-state levels of mrna for collagen type i on day 3 of abdominal aortic banding, which had declined to control levels by day 7 where it remained rather constant at 4 and 8 weeks. type iii collagen showed a similar pattern of gene expression after banding. mrna levels for type iv collagen, on the other hand, were elevated on day 1 after banding, returning to control at day 7 and remaining constant. actin mrna levels also increased on day 1 of banding, followed by a rapid return to control levels. monospecific antibody to types i and iii collagens and immunofluorescent light microscopy on frozen sections of the myocardium revealed that at 1 week after banding, the distribution and density of these collagens were similar to those of control animals.
threat of unemployment and cardiovascular risk factors: longitudinal study of quality of sleep and serum cholesterol concentrations in men threatened with redundancy. objective--to assess whether the threat of unemployment affects risk factors for cardiovascular disease. design--longitudinal study of a cohort of middle aged shipyard workers followed up for a mean of 6.2 (sd 1.9) years and a group of controls observed for the same period. the first investigation took place during a period of relative economic stability for the shipyard and the second during the phase of its closure. setting--an age cohort health screening programme in malmo, sweden. participants--715 male shipyard workers and 261 age matched male controls. main outcome measures--changes in 19 variables related to the risk of cardiovascular disease, and psychological variables, alcohol consumption, smoking, and dietary habits as assessed by questionnaire. results--serum cholesterol concentrations increased more (mean 0.25 (sd 0.68) mmol/l v 0.08 (0.66) mmol/l) and serum calcium concentrations decreased less (-0.06 (0.10) mmol/l v -0.08 (0.09) mmol/l) in the shipyard workers than in the controls. a correlation was found between scores for sleep disturbance and changes in serum cholesterol concentration. in the whole series there was a greater increase in serum cholesterol concentrations among men threatened with unemployment (437/976; 44.8%) than among those who were not. in stepwise regression analysis the change in serum cholesterol concentration was correlated with changes in haemoglobin concentration, body weight, and serum triglyceride and calcium concentrations. a positive correlation was found between change in cholesterol concentration and change in blood pressure, indicating that the overall risk profile had worsened among men with increased serum cholesterol concentrations. conclusions--risk of unemployment increases the serum cholesterol concentration in middle aged men, the increase being more pronounced in those with sleep disturbance. the increase in serum cholesterol is related to changes in other established risk factors for cardiovascular disease. these findings might partly explain the excessive mortality due to cardiovascular disease recorded among the unemployed and people with sleep disturbance.
morphological and biochemical changes in gastric mucosa of aging rats. although previous data from this laboratory have indicated that aging is associated with increased gastric mucosal proliferative activity, no direct assessment of proliferative potential of the tissue has been made during aging. in order to assess this, and to determine whether changes in mucosal proliferative potential would be reflected in growth of the tissue, we have examined the labeling index (li), height and morphology of the gastric mucosa in young (4-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) fischer-344 rats. in addition, tyrosine kinase (tyr-k) activity and the levels of phosphotyrosine proteins were determined to evaluate their relationship to mucosal proliferative activity. histologic evaluation revealed a marked atrophy of the mucosal glandular component with 32% reduction in height in aged rats when compared with young animals. in aged rats, there was also a decrease in gland density, resulting in a reduction in the number of epithelial cells of all types with evidence of decreased secretory activity. despite the occurrence of mucosal atrophy in aged rats, li in these animals was significantly increased by 28%. this was associated with a parallel rise in mucosal tyr-k activity, and a two- to threefold increase in the relative concentrations of seven phosphotyrosine membrane proteins with mr of 120, 105, 90, 60, 55, 48 and 32 kda. we conclude that (1) although aging is associated with increased gastric mucosal proliferative activity, this does not result in mucosal growth and that (2) tyr-k and tyrosine phosphorylation of certain proteins play a role in the regulation of gastric mucosal cell proliferation during aging.
blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer: the role of platelet derived growth factors. efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion. however, the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive. we have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon. using a human fibroblast: [125i]deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay, the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured. there was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 (n = 6) to day 28 (n = 6; p less than 0.001, mann-whitney u test). the effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in hooded lister rats. following an intraportal injection of 10(5) mc28 tumour cells, the experimental group (n = 25) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days. likewise, colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10(3) cells. the experimental groups (n = 20) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally (n = 19). there was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group (p less than 0.01). growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer.
enhanced modulation of antibodies coating guinea pig leukemic cells in vitro and in vivo. the role of fc gamma r expressing cells. we have investigated the antigenic modulation induced by a number of antibody fragments and derivatives directed against the idiotype of the surface ig of the l2c guinea pig b lymphoblastic leukemia, and studied the effects upon such modulation of the simultaneous presence of cells expressing fc gamma receptors (fcr). in vitro studies confirmed previous work showing that antibody bivalency is required to induce modulation in vitro in simple systems. however, in the presence of isolated kupffer cells, fc-containing univalent antibodies were found to induce significant antigenic modulation, and the modulation induced by intact igg was also found to be more rapid and extensive. fragments that did not contain fc regions behaved similarly in the presence or absence of kupffer cells. further investigations demonstrated that all three classes of human fcr can mediate modulation enhancement, and suggest that the mechanism involves indirect cross-linking of cell surface ag via the antibody and effector cell fcr. in vivo studies showed that univalent antibody derivatives containing fc regions did induce antigenic modulation, but that this was significantly reduced in comparison with bivalent antibodies, confirming their potential advantage for immunotherapy.
basement membrane of cervical adenocarcinoma: an immunoperoxidase study of laminin and type iv collagen. the basement membrane components type iv collagen and laminin were examined immunohistochemically in 14 cases of adenocarcinoma of the cervix. the patterns of staining in adenocarcinoma in situ, invasive adenocarcinoma, and early invasive adenocarcinoma were compared to see whether characteristic patterns could be delineated. adenocarcinoma in situ had a uniform intact basement membrane, whereas the basement membrane of invasive adenocarcinoma was fragmented and irregular. cases of early stromal invasion showed early gland buds and outpouchings with defective basement membrane staining. the degree of histologic differentiation of the tumor was not clearly related to the amount of basement membrane component staining. the concept of early stromal invasion in cervical adenocarcinoma, as supported by our immunohistochemical studies, is discussed as it relates to a possible pathogenic mechanism in early invasion and infiltration of adenocarcinoma of the cervix.
decreased expression of integrin adhesive protein receptors in adenocarcinoma of the breast. the integrin superfamily represents a major class of receptors mediating cell-substrate adhesion. our recent study of the tissue distribution of the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin, a cell-surface collagen receptor, revealed that high levels of receptor expression were associated with orderly, regulated epithelial cell proliferation. those observations prompted the present investigation of alpha 2 beta 1 and other integrins in adenocarcinoma of the breast. the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin was highly expressed on the epithelium of the ducts and ductules of normal breast tissue. normal or nearly normal levels of the receptor were expressed in fibroadenomas. in contrast, markedly decreased or undetectable alpha 2 beta 1 expression was typical of poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas. well-differentiated lesions exhibited intermediate levels of expression. similar, but less extensive, decreases in expression were observed for the alpha 5 beta 1 (fibronectin receptor) and alpha v beta 3 (vitronectin receptor). significant expression of the beta 1 subunit on even poorly differentiated tumors suggests that the expression of other undefined members of the beta 1 family is not reduced to the same low level as alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 5 beta 1. expression of the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin was highly correlated with estrogen-receptor expression. decreased expression of alpha 2 beta 1 and other integrin adhesive protein receptors probably contributes to the altered adhesive properties of tumor cells characteristic of the malignant phenotype.
normal and leukemic hematopoietic cells manifest differential sensitivity to inhibitory effects of c-myb antisense oligodeoxynucleotides: an in vitro study relevant to bone marrow purging. the c-myb protooncogene is preferentially expressed in hematopoietic cells, and its encoded protein, myb, is required for hematopoietic cell proliferation. to analyze the relative myb dependence of normal and leukemic human hematopoietic progenitor cells, normal bone marrow cells, several types of leukemic blast cells, and 1:1 mixtures of normal and leukemic cells were cultured in the presence of c-myb sense or antisense oligodeoxynucleotides; cell viability and cloning efficiency were then assessed. c-myb sense oligomers had negligible effects on normal and leukemic cells. in contrast, c-myb antisense oligomers strongly inhibited or completely abolished clonogenic growth of a t-cell leukemia line, 78% (18 of 23) of primary acute myelogenous leukemia cases examined, and 4 of 5 primary chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) cases in blast crisis. in three of the latter patients, polymerase chain reaction analysis of a 1:1 mixture of c-myb antisense-treated normal and cml cells revealed a complete absence of bcr-abl expression, suggesting that the cml clonogenic units had been completely eliminated from the cultures. at antisense doses that inhibited leukemic cell growth, normal hematopoietic progenitor cells survived. thus, normal and leukemic hematopoietic cells show differential sensitivity to the toxic effects of c-myb antisense dna. perturbation of c-myb function with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides might eventually form the basis for a molecular approach to leukemia therapy, perhaps most immediately as ex vivo bone marrow purging agents.
drug fever. remember to consider it in diagnosis. drug fever should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any patient with unexplained fever. clues in the history, physical examination, and laboratory assessment can point to the diagnosis before extensive, costly, and potentially harmful investigations and therapies are begun.
cutaneous vasculitis associated with pheochromocytoma. we describe a patient who presented with constitutional symptoms, severe hypertension, and purpuric lesions over the knees, thighs, and penis. the patient was eventually diagnosed as having multiple endocrine neoplasia type ii, with cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis. the cutaneous vasculitis persisted despite treatment with high-dose systemic corticosteroids, but rapidly resolved after the removal of bilateral pheochromocytomas. this case demonstrates cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis in association with pheochromocytoma.
the neural substrate of memory impairment demonstrated by the intracarotid amobarbital procedure. the intracarotid amobarbital sodium (amytal) procedure (iap) was performed for 46 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (21 with left seizure foci; 25 with right seizure foci). after anteromedial temporal lobectomy, neuronal densities were established for hippocampal subfields ca1, ca2, and ca3; the hilum; and the dentate granule cell layer. intracarotid amobarbital procedure memory results were related to ca3 neuronal loss only. patients who did not demonstrate memory after injection contralateral to the seizure focus had significantly fewer cells in ca3 than patients who did. additionally, a significant correlation was observed between the intracarotid amobarbital procedure memory examination raw score after injection contralateral to the seizure focus and ca3 cell density. using chi 2 analysis, significant differences were documented in the frequency with which memory was demonstrated after injection contralateral to the seizure focus for groups of patients classified by degree of ca3 neuronal loss. this finding supports prior research showing subfield specificity in some memory processes.
misdiagnosis of the zollinger-ellison syndrome due to hyperlipidemia. most authorities feel that diagnosis of the zollinger-ellison syndrome is established when the serum gastrin level is greater than 1000 pg/ml (1000 ng/l) in a patient with gastric acid hypersecretion and clinical manifestations consistent with the diagnosis. a patient with recurrent peptic ulcer disease is reported who was thought to have had the zollinger-ellison syndrome based on two serum gastrin level measurements greater than 1000 pg/ml (1000 ng/l). subsequent evaluation revealed the gastrin elevation to be spurious because the sample was hyperlipidemic. lipemic serum samples may yield falsely elevated serum gastrin determinations as determined by radioimmunoassay.
abnormal pattern detected in fragile-x patients by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. the fragile-x syndrome is the most frequent inherited form of mental retardation, with an incidence of 1 in 1,500 males. it is characterized by the presence of a fragile site at xq27.3 induced in vitro by folate deprivation or by inhibitors of deoxynucleotide synthesis. its mode of inheritance is unusual for an x-linked trait, with incomplete penetrance in both males and females. some phenotypically normal males transmit the mutation to all their daughters who rarely express any symptoms, but penetrance is high in sons and daughters of these carrier women. genetic and physical mapping of the xq27-q28 region has confirmed that the disease locus is located at or very near the fragile site. hypotheses proposed to account for the abnormalities in the inheritance of the disease include sequence rearrangements by meiotic recombination or a mutation that affects reactivation of an inactive x chromosome during differentiation of female germ cells. to detect such rearrangements, or methylation changes that may reflect a locally inactive x chromosome, we used pulsed-field gel analysis of dna from fragile-x patients with probes close to the fragile-x locus. the probe do33 (dxs465) detected abnormal patterns in fragile-x patients, but not in normal controls or in non-expressing male transmitters.
a simple stress test for the evaluation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis during the first 6 months of life. in 33 normal infants, divided into 3 age groups (less than 1 month, 1-3 months, and 3-6 months) plasma cortisol was measured at 2230, 2300, and 2330 h. baseline plasma cortisol at 2230 h. was, as expected, low in all infants, with mean +/- sem values of 41 +/- 5, 72 +/- 14, and 97 +/- 17 nmol/l in each group, respectively. thirty and 60 min after the painful stimulus of the venipuncture, plasma cortisol increased significantly (p less than 0.0005), reaching a maximum increase up to 458 +/- 50, 392 +/- 66, and 455 +/- 97 nmol/l in each age group, respectively. we conclude that in these infants the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis was functionally intact and responded to the painful stimulus of the venipuncture by a significant increase in plasma cortisol. this test may be used as a simple procedure for the evaluation of the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis without the administration of pharmacological agents. its usefulness, however, should be validated with patients having a disorder of the system.
injection or heat probe for bleeding ulcer. a prospective randomized trial was performed to compare the efficacy of endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment in actively bleeding peptic ulcers. emergency endoscopy in 1758 patients over an 18-month period identified 132 patients with active ulcer bleeding. they were randomized to receive either endoscopic epinephrine injection or heat probe treatment. after endoscopy, the patients were transferred to the surgical gastroenterology ward and were managed by surgeons unaware of the treatment option. bleeding was initially controlled in 96% by epinephrine injection and in 83% by heat probe (p less than 0.05). there was no significant difference in outcome as measured by transfusion requirement (4.5 units vs. 3.8 units), emergency surgery (20% vs. 22%), hospital stay (8 days vs. 7 days), and mortality (2 vs. 4) between the injection group and the heat probe group. two patients in the heat probe group experienced perforation. we conclude that both endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment are effective in stopping bleeding from actively bleeding ulcers. epinephrine injection is technically easier to perform and has a higher initial success rate.
a bradykinin antagonist modifies allergen-induced mediator release and late bronchial responses in sheep. we assessed the role of bradykinin (bk) in allergen-induced early and late bronchial responses, airway inflammation, mediator release, and antigen-induced airway hyperresponsiveness in allergic sheep by studying the effects of the bk b2 receptor antagonist, npc-567 (d-arg-[hyp3, d-phe7]-bk), on these parameters. antigen challenge was performed on two occasions greater than 3 wk apart, once with placebo (control) and once after high-dose (10 mg/ml) and low-dose (5 mg/ml) treatments with aerosol npc-567. in the control trials (n = 14) antigen challenge resulted in an early and late increase in specific lung resistance (srl). the early response was associated with increases (p less than 0.05) in prostaglandin (pg) d2, immunoreactive kinin, tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester (tame)-esterase, and pge2 in bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) fluid. the late response was associated with increases (p less than 0.05) in leukotrienes (lt) b4 and c4, thromboxane (tx) b2, 6-keto-pgf10, and pge2. there was a significant influx of neutrophils in the bal fluid during the late response, and airway hyperresponsiveness to carbachol aerosol was apparent 4 h after challenge. in six sheep the high-dose npc-567 treatment (given before, during, and 4 h after antigen challenge) did not attenuate the early bronchoconstrictor response or the early release of mediators but caused a significant reduction in the late response (p less than 0.05). this protective effect was accompanied by reductions (p less than 0.05) in both the concentrations of all the mediators associated with the late response and the severity of the bal neutrophilia. high-dose npc-567 did not attenuate the airway hyperresponsiveness or the cellular inflammatory response seen 24 h after challenge. in eight sheep treated with the low dose of npc-567 (given before, during, and 4, 8, and 24 h after challenge) the early response was not blocked but the late response was again inhibited, as were the mediators associated with the late response. at the low dose the drug did not prevent the airway inflammation at 8 or 24 h. the additional treatments did, however, prevent the 24 h hyperresponsiveness. these data suggest that kinin generation during antigen-induced airway anaphylaxis may be important for controlling the release of arachidonic acid metabolites from airway inflammatory cells that contribute to the development of the late response in the allergic sheep model.
pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsy due to midbrain infarction. vasculopathic oculomotor nerve palsies with pupillary sparing are thought to be due to ischemic damage to the nerve in the subarachnoid space or the cavernous sinus. we present two cases of patients with isolated pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsies due to midbrain infarcts. focal ischemic midbrain lesions should be considered in cases of pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsies.
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids. a patient with pernicious anemia, atrophic non-antral gastritis, hypergastrinemia, and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months, including 15 months after gastric resection. in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa, suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis.
microdochectomy for discharge from a single lactiferous duct. microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct was performed in 162 women. invasive or in situ ductal carcinoma was diagnosed in 16 patients (10 per cent), none of whom had a palpable lump. the discharge was blood-stained in 14 of these women and in two it was clear. mammography was performed in 15 of these 16 patients and was abnormal in only five. three patients had atypical ductal hyperplasia, one of whom subsequently developed an invasive ductal carcinoma. microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct is curative and gives a diagnosis of the cause. it remains the treatment of choice whether the discharge is blood-stained or clear.
subrenal capsule assay as a chemosensitivity test for primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the efficiency of the subrenal capsule assay (srca) was studied with fresh tissue of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the day-to-day changes in 10 carcinoma cases were evaluated for 9 days. the cancer cells continued to proliferate from the 3rd to the 7th day after the implantation and then decreased. the host reaction was recognized histologically from the 3rd or 4th day to the 9th day. however, the immune reaction did not significantly influence the evaluation of srca until the 7th day. the immunohistochemical staining with anti-bromodeoxyuridine monoclonal antibody revealed the existence of cancer cells at the dna synthesizing stage (s stage) in the graft until the 7th day. in chemosensitivity test by srca, 21 patients were studied, and all were evaluable. 5-fu administration produced a response in 8/21 cases (38.1%), vds in 8/21 (38.1%), and cddp in 3/21 (14.3%). used in combination, cddp + vds was effective in 7/18 cases (38.9%) and cddp + blm in 6/18 cases (33.3%).
influence of low osmolality contrast media on electrophysiology and hemodynamics in coronary angiography: differences between an ionic (ioxaglate) and a nonionic (iohexol) agent. it has recently been suggested that the addition of sodium to low osmolality contrast media may reduce the incidence of ventricular fibrillation and conduction disturbances during coronary angiography. in a randomized, double blind study of 30 patients undergoing coronary angiography we therefore examined the electrophysiological and hemodynamic effects of the two low osmolality contrast media-ioxaglate (with sodium) and iohexol (without sodium). standard ecg, aortic blood pressure, and his bundle electrocardiogram were recorded. the contrast media were well tolerated and no serious arrhythmias were observed. both induced a transient decrement in systolic blood pressure and reduction in heart rate 10 s following contrast injection (all p less than 0.01). ioxaglate prolonged the qt interval at 10 s (p less than 0.01) and also when analysed for the whole observation period (120 s) (p less than 0.05), whereas iohexol did not cause any significant changes in the qt-interval. the ah-interval was prolonged by ioxaglate at 10 s (p less than 0.01), but not altered by iohexol. thus, other factors than osmolality and sodium content might contribute to qt prolongation, since only the contrast agents with sodium (ioxaglate) induced qt prolongation in this study.
a prospective, double-blind study of metoclopramide hydrochloride for the control of migraine in the emergency department study objective: to determine the effectiveness of iv metoclopramide as sole therapy for relieving the pain of acute migraine in the emergency department. design: prospective study. fifty patients were divided randomly into subjects and placebo controls with blinding of the treating physician and the patient. participants: patients presenting to the ed with migraine requiring parenteral treatment. interventions: subjects received 10 mg iv metoclopramide and controls received iv normal saline; patient assessment of relief was followed by means of a numerical scale. measurements and main results: sixty-seven percent of subjects compared with 19% of controls had effective pain relief within one hour (p less than .001). subjects achieved mean relief scores of 2.46 compared with 1.69 for controls (p less than .02). no significant side effects were observed. conclusion: iv metoclopramide as a single agent is effective and safe therapy for migraine in the ed.
comparative investigation of c-erbb2/neu expression in head and neck tumors and mammary cancer. normal tissues, primary tumors, and metastases of mammary and salivary glands and oral/laryngeal mucosa have been analyzed with northern-blots employing 32p-labeled rna probes for the expression of the neu oncogene. neu oncogene expression of a mrna species of 4.6 kilobases was found in all normal salivary (five) and mammary glands (four) as well as in two normal or inflamed samples of tongue mucosa. this expression was regarded as baseline activity of the neu gene for the respective tissues and was used as standard for the evaluation of benign and malignant tumors. none of 14 squamous cell carcinomas of the oral and laryngeal mucosa showed enhanced neu transcription level. five fibroadenomas, one benign variant of phylloid tumor, one carcinosarcoma, and one of two proliferative fibrocystic diseases of the breast showed lacking or normal baseline expression of the neu oncogene, as did one monomorphous cystadenolymphoma of the parotid gland. in contrast, four parotid pleomorphic adenomas and one salivary gland adenocarcinoma showed enhanced neu expression. for mammary adenocarcinomas, increased neu oncogene expression concerned ten of 34 cases--all being variants of ductal carcinomas--and all metastases analyzed (six) deriving from three primaries. one adenoid cystic carcinoma also showed enhanced neu expression. neu overexpression may reflect accidents of genomic reconstitutional events occurring regularly within the differentiation pathway of epithelial/myoepithelial cells. this assumption was supported by further immunohistochemical analysis which showed stainings of myoepithelial and myoepithelia-like cell populations in tumors, especially pleomorphic adenomas and adjacent normal-looking tissues.
protein turnover in uraemia in the rat. 1. the effect of uraemia on the rates of protein synthesis and protein degradation in liver, heart and vastus lateralis muscle were examined in the rat. uraemia was induced by a five-sixths nephrectomy and the rates of protein turnover were compared with pair-fed sham-operated littermate controls. 2. the procedure produced plasma concentrations (means +/- sem) of urea of 7.3 +/- 0.4 mmol/l in control and 39 +/- 2 mmol/l in uraemic rats, and of creatinine of 41 +/- 1 mumol/l in control and 133 +/- 7 mumol/l in uraemic rats. 3. uraemia reduced the rates of protein synthesis in liver, heart and muscle by 35 +/- 5, 4.0 +/- 1.2 and 4.0 +/- 0.6%/day, respectively, compared with control rats (p less than 0.01). since the reductions in tissue growth rate were too small to be accounted for by the reduction seen in protein synthesis alone, this implied that protein degradation was also reduced. uraemia also caused an 18% reduction in the rate of growth as measured by the increase in tail length (p less than 0.01). 4. uraemia reduced both protein synthesis and protein degradation. protein synthesis exceeded protein degradation in all tissues. this would cause a reduced rate of protein accumulation in the uraemic compared with the control rats, and hence a reduced rate of growth.
relationship between body and brain temperature in traumatically brain-injured rodents. recent work has shown that mild to moderate levels of hypothermia may profoundly reduce the histological and biochemical sequelae of cerebral ischemic injury. in the present study, the authors examined the effect of fluid-percussion injury on brain temperature in anesthetized rats and the effect of anesthesia on brain temperature in uninjured rats. the relationship between the brain, rectal, and temporalis muscle temperatures during normothermia, hypothermia, and hyperthermia was studied following a moderate magnitude of fluid-percussion brain injury (2.10 to 2.25 atmospheres) in rats. the results showed that mean brain temperature in 10 anesthetized injured rats, in 21 anesthetized uninjured rats, and in 10 unanesthetized uninjured rats was a mean (+/- standard error of the mean) of 36.04 degrees +/- 0.20 degrees c, 36.30 degrees +/- 0.08 degrees c, and 37.95 degrees +/- 0.09 degrees c, respectively. there was no significant difference in temperature under general anesthesia between injured and uninjured rats (p greater than 0.05). in the absence of brain injury, mean brain temperature was significantly lower in anesthetized rats than in unanesthetized rats (p less than 0.001). in anesthetized brain-injured rats, temporalis muscle temperature correlated well with brain temperature over a 30 degrees to 40 degrees c range, even when brain temperature was rapidly changed during induction of hypothermia or hyperthermia (r = 0.9986, p less than 0.0001). in contrast, rectal temperature varied inconsistently from brain temperature. these observations indicated that: 1) brain injury itself does not influence brain temperature in this model; 2) anesthesia alone decreases brain temperature to levels producing cerebral protection in this model; and 3) external monitoring of temporalis muscle temperature can provide a reliable indirect measure of brain temperature in the course of experimental brain injury. the authors believe that it is essential to monitor or control brain temperature in studies of experimental brain injury.
peroxisomal disorders. although peroxisomes were once considered a vestige, their importance in cellular metabolism is clearly established by the many inherited diseases that have been described in the past two decades. unfortunately there is no definitive treatment for the various disorders, but based on the recognition of the biochemical abnormalities, prenatal testing and appropriate genetic counseling can be provided. it is essential for clinicians to be aware of this group of diseases, as diagnosis and further study of these patients are essential in understanding the basic etiologic mechanisms underlying these complex groups of disorders. clearly, there is much to be learned about the relationship between biochemical abnormalities and the phenotypic variability of the peroxisomal disorders.
characterization of "peak e," a novel amino acid associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. epidemiologic studies strongly associate eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) with ingestion of tryptophan containing a contaminant ("peak e"). prior reports have suggested that peak e is the di-tryptophan n alpha-animal of acetaldehyde. spectral and chemical studies now demonstrate that peak e is 1,1'-ethylidenebis[tryptophan]. this novel amino acid may be the etiological agent responsible for ems, or it may be a marker of a still unidentified causal agent.
analgesic use: a study of treatments used by patients for migraine prior to attending the city of london migraine clinic. eighty-three unselected patients attending the city of london migraine clinic for the first time were asked about their drug intake and use of alternative treatment. thirty-one of those questioned took regular daily doses of medication. fifteen were taking a combination of drugs bought 'over the counter' (otc) and drugs prescribed by their gp; eleven took otc drugs only; and 5 took prescription drugs only. it was noticeable that those taking drugs prescribed both by the gp and obtainable over the counter were more likely than the other groups to be taking several drugs rather than a single type. thirty five of the 83 (42.2%) had tried alternative treatments for their attacks.
testicular calcifications and neoplasia in patient treated for subfertility. a subfertile male with a history of left cryptorchism underwent scrotal ultrasound that revealed stippled calcifications, without associated mass, in the right testicle. six months later, while on a regimen of clomiphene citrate, a testicular tumor became palpable. this was sonographically confirmed to be surrounding the calcifications. testicular calcifications are most commonly associated with benign conditions. we review the literature regarding their relationship to neoplasms and the significance of the ultrasonic findings. furthermore, this is the sixth reported case of testicular tumor developing during hormonal treatment for oligospermia. although these cases may be circumstantial, closer surveillance and screening ultrasound may be indicated for subfertile males taking clomiphene citrate.
role of histamine in natural killer cell-mediated resistance against tumor cells. the formation of lung metastases by i.v.-injected b16 melanoma (f1 and f10 strain) cells in swiss albino, c57bl/6, and balb/c mice was reduced by a single dose of histamine given 24 h before tumor cell inoculation. the antimetastatic effect of histamine was specifically mediated by histamine h2-receptors (h2r): it was blocked by the h2r antagonist ranitidine and mimicked by dimaprit, a specific h2r agonist but not by an h2r-inactive structural analog of this compound, nor-dimaprit, or the h1r agonist 2-thiazolyl-ethylamide. a single dose of any of the h2r antagonists ranitidine, tiotidine, famotidine, or cimetidine drastically augmented metastasis. effects of h2r-interactive compounds on b16 metastasis required intact nk cells, as judged by the inability of histamine or ranitidine to affect b16 metastasis after nk cell depletion in vivo using antibodies to asialo-gm1. nk-cell-mediated lysis of yac-1 lymphoma cells in vivo was enhanced by histamine and reduced by ranitidine within 4 h after inoculation of tumor cells. the antimetastatic effect of il-2 was potentiated by histamine; in some experiments, combined treatment with a low dose of il-2 (6000 u/kg) and histamine completely eliminated metastasis, whereas concomitant treatment with ranitidine abrogated antimetastatic effects of il-2; animals treated with ranitidine and il-2 displayed the same level of enhanced metastasis as those treated with ranitidine alone. the presented data are suggestive of an earlier unrecognized role for histamine in nk cell-mediated resistance against metastatic tumor cells.
learning disabilities in epilepsy: neurophysiological aspects. subclinical generalized spike-wave discharges are often accompanied by transitory cognitive impairment, demonstrable by psychological testing during eeg recording. transitory cognitive impairment is demonstrated most readily by difficult tasks and during generalized regular spike-wave bursts lasting for more than 3 s, but can also be found during briefer and even focal discharges. that this is not simply a consequence of global inattention is shown by the fact that focal discharges exhibit some specificity: left-sided focal spiking is more likely to produce errors on verbal tasks, for instance, whereas right-sided discharges are more often accompanied by impairment in handling nonverbal material. both learning difficulties in general and specific abnormal patterns of cognitive functioning are well documented in children with epilepsy and are most pronounced in those with frequent interictal discharges. however, there is now evidence that intermittent cognitive impairment due to the discharges themselves contributes significantly to such neurophysiological abnormalities. the significance of transitory cognitive impairment accompanying subclinical eeg discharges for everyday functioning is uncertain, but there is experimental evidence that subclinical discharges may be accompanied by disruption of educational skills in children or by impairment of driving performance in motorists. in some individuals, suppression of discharges by antiepileptic drugs has demonstrably improved psychological function, but further work is required to determine the indications for such treatment.
reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament. the results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free, autogenous, non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution. eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years. in forty-eight (60 per cent) of the knees, the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band. the patients were evaluated with a physical examination, a kt-1000 arthrometer, radiographs, a subjective questionnaire, and a revision of the scale of the hospital for special surgery for rating ligaments. postoperatively, seventy-six (95 per cent) of the eighty knees no longer gave way, and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven (84 per cent) of the knees. the average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points. all of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction. arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty (76 per cent) of the treated knees. in the patient who had bilateral reconstruction, the laxity was the same in both knees. seventeen patients, who had more than three millimeters of translation, also had additional related ligamentous instability, most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament. we think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction.
99mtc-anti-cea radioimmunoscintigraphy of lung adenocarcinoma. anti-carcinoembryonic antigen radioimmunoscintigraphy (anti-cea ris) in colorectal adenocarcinoma has been reported to allow a better estimation of the local tumor extension than other radiologic methods. this study evaluated the clinical feasibility of a 99mtc-labeled anti-cea monoclonal antibody (bw 431/26, behring institute, frg) in 11 patients for staging of primary adenocarcinoma of the lung. the primary tumor size ranged from 3 to 8 cm with a mean of 4 cm. mediastinal and hilar nodes were present in four patients, intrapulmonary metastases were present in two patients, and pleural and liver metastases were present in one patient each. the cea levels were in the range of 2 to 265 ng/ml and elevated (greater than 5 ng/ml) in six patients. planar scintigraphy was performed at 6 h and 24 h post injection (pi). analog and digitized images were interpreted by two observers. one patient was imaged twice and experienced serum sickness due to human anti-mouse antibodies (hama) after the second study, which showed marked unspecific tracer uptake in liver, spleen, and bone marrow, but no specific uptake by the tumor and was excluded from further analysis. visual interpretation identified the primary tumor clearly in seven patients. no tumor imaging was observed in two patients. two patients were classified as having questionable imaging due to a poor separation of tumor uptake from mediastinal blood pool. the primary tumor could be clearly delineated in both patients after comparison with the chest radiograph. thus, the overall sensitivity for imaging of the primary tumor was 82 percent. the average target/background ratio was 1.31 +/- 0.17:1 at 6 h pi, and 1.30 +/- 0.16:1 at 24 h pi. hilar and mediastinal nodes were correctly suspected in three patients, but the cardiac blood pool hampered a clear interpretation. intrapulmonary and pleural metastases were diagnosed in all cases. the single liver metastasis was missed because of the high unspecific tracer uptake. planar anti-cea ris with 99mtc bw 431/26 was superior to computed tomography (ct) in one case with subtotal tumor resection. we summarize that at present, planar anti-cea ris with 99mtc bw 431/26 cannot be advised as a routine staging procedure in adenocarcinoma of the lung, but it may be helpful in the detection of residual or recurrent tumor tissue.
peritoneal blastomycosis. blastomycosis is a systemic fungal infection caused by blastomyces dermatitidis. involvement of the peritoneum is unusual, with only two previously reported cases that occurred in association with disseminated disease. a single case of histopathologically proven blastomycosis involving the peritoneum is presented, as well as a short overview of previously published cases on gastrointestinal and peritoneal blastomycosis. the case is unique in that chronic peritonitis was the only manifestation of disease. the diagnosis was made by laparoscopy.
changes in plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol and phospholipid in acute viral hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice. forty-four male and female subjects aged 22-57 years were studied. thirteen patients had acute viral hepatitis, and eleven patients had cholestatic jaundice due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. twenty healthy volunteers who served as controls were also included. in hepatitis patients, the mean plasma levels of total cholesterol (tc) and the high density lipoprotein (hdl)-phospholipid/phospholipid (hdlpl/pl) ratio were reduced, and hdl-cholesterol (hdlc), hdl-phospholipid (hdlpl) and the phospholipid/total cholesterol (pl/tc) ratio were normal, while total phospholipid (pl) levels and the hdlc/tc ratio were significantly increased compared to the control values. in patients with cholestatic jaundice the mean plasma total cholesterol, phospholipid and hdlc levels were elevated, and hdlpl/pl, hdlpl, hdlc/tc and pl/tc remained normal compared to the control values. a comparison within the patient groups showed that plasma tc, pl and hdlc levels were significantly increased in cholestatic jaundice when compared with the corresponding levels in hepatitis patients. the mean plasma levels of hdlpl, hdlc/tc and pl/tc did not show any significant variation within the patient groups. alkaline phosphatase (alp) correlated positively with tc, and total protein correlated negatively with tc and hdlpl, while albumin correlated negatively with tc, hdlc and hdlpl in cholestatic jaundice. alanine amino-transferase (alat) also correlated positively with pl in cholestatic jaundice, while albumin correlated positively with tc in hepatitis. the results suggest that lipoproteins might be metabolized differently in these two forms of cholestasis.
temporal arteritis with normal erythrocyte sedimentation rates presenting as occipital neuralgia. a retrospective review of 46 patients with biopsy-proven giant cell (temporal) arteritis revealed 8 (17%) whose initial presentation was occipital pain. the most likely etiology of occipital pain in these patients was occipital artery inflammation. a westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate less than 40 mm/hour was noted at presentation in 6 of these 8 patients. giant cell arteritis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly patients who present with occipital pain and demonstrate a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
life events and difficulties preceding stroke. life events and difficulties were recorded for the year before stroke, using a standardised semi-structured interview, in 113 surviving patients seen after their first ever in a lifetime stroke. an age and sex-matched control group (n = 109) was also interviewed about the preceding year. the stroke patients reported fewer non-threatening events and events with only a short-term threat, while difficulties were reported with equal frequency by the two groups. however, events which were severely threatening in the long-term were significantly more common in the stroke patients (in the 52 weeks before stroke 26% versus 13%, odds ratio 2.3, 95% confidence interval 1.1-4.9). the increased rate was apparent throughout the year and not just in the weeks immediately before stroke onset. the number of stroke patients experiencing severe events in the follow up year fell to the level found in the control group. recognised risk factors for stroke were found equally in those patients with and without severe events before onset, except that hypertension was rather less common in the patients who had experienced a severe event. it therefore appears that severe life events may be one of the determinants of stroke onset.
morphine-induced transactivation of hiv-1 ltr in human neuroblastoma cells. infection by human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) is followed in many cases by a clinically quiescent or latent phase that appears to continue as long as host antiviral defense is intact. this has raised the possibility that certain host susceptibility factors (i.e., environmental cofactors) might influence the progression of the disease. in this study we demonstrate that morphine can function to activate hiv/ltr-cat fusion gene (hiv-long terminal repeat-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase) when transfected into undifferentiated human sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells. the stimulatory effect of morphine is amplified in sh-sy5y cells that have been induced to differentiate first with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (pma) and is much less in cells differentiated with retinoic acid (ra). morphine does not appreciably activate hiv/ltr-cat expression in human molt-3 and other t cells. morphine activation of hiv/ltr-cat in the sh-sy5y cells is not reversible by naltrexone and appears to involve a fos/jun signaling system. our results suggest that narcotics such as morphine may lead to activation of latent hiv infection. this may be particularly important in tissues, such as brain, which can host latent hiv infection and which is uniquely damaged in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) as evidenced by neuronal degeneration and dementia. we also predict that these findings may have important implications for the pathogenesis of aids, particularly in opiate drug abusers.
intraputaminal infusion of nerve growth factor to support adrenal medullary autografts in parkinson's disease. one-year follow-up of first clinical trial. experimental studies in rodents show that beta-nerve growth factor can increase the survival, neurite outgrowth, and functional effect of grafts of adrenal chromaffin cells to the basal ganglia. we, therefore, have begun to investigate whether treatment with nerve growth factor might also increase the functional effect of autografts of adrenal medullary tissue in patients with parkinson's disease. previous studies have shown that stereotactic implantation of adrenal tissue pieces produces a transient functional improvement that lasts for a few months. this report describes a trial of grafting of adrenal chromaffin tissue into the putamen, supported by infusion of nerve growth factor. the patient is a 63-year-old woman with a 19-year history of parkinson's disease, now complicated by on-off phenomena and drug-induced hyperkinesia, despite optimized medical management. the left adrenal gland was removed, and the medulla was dissected into 1- to 2-mm3 pieces in a solution containing nerve growth factor purified from mouse submandibular gland. pieces were implanted in six tracts 3 to 4 mm from a previously placed cannula in the left putamen. through the cannula, nerve growth factor was infused for 23 days for a total dose of 3.3 mg. clinical assessment consisted of global ratings for rigidity and/or hypokinesia and for drug-induced hyperkinesia. measures of gait and fine-motor control were also made. the motor readiness potential and auditory evoked potentials were recorded.
flexion osteotomy of the femur for genu recurvatum after poliomyelitis. we report the results of 21 femoral osteotomies performed in 18 patients for genu recurvatum and flattening of the femoral condyles after poliomyelitis. before operation the average angle of recurvatum was 31 degrees and all the limbs required bracing. after a mean follow-up of four years there has been partial recurrence in only one case. nine patients (10 limbs) needed no orthosis and the others had less discomfort and an improved gait. complete remodelling of the femoral and tibial epiphyses was noted in two of the younger patients.
adult immunization in a network of family practice residency programs. a substantial proportion of morbidity and mortality associated with vaccine-preventable diseases occurs among adults. teaching residents about disease prevention is mandated in the curriculum guidelines for family practice programs. a cooperative study among the kansas city family practice residency programs was begun to look at immunization behaviors in these teaching programs. a retrospective audit of medical records and a prospective survey of residents and faculty were performed. from the medical records of 400 patients seen for health maintenance examinations, the frequency of tetanus-diphtheria immunizations recorded was 4.75%. the pooled immunization rate recorded for pneumococcal vaccine was 25%, and for influenza vaccine, 24%. although 93% of respondents knew patients need tetanus-diphtheria immunization every 10 years, on a written questionnaire giving clinical examples, they were less likely to elect to immunize older patients eligible for tetanus-diphtheria vaccine. the following immunization criteria were listed by respondents: for pneumococcal vaccine, age over 65 years (86%); for influenza vaccine, age over 65 years (85%), chronic diseases (69%), residence in a chronic care facility (7%), and being a health care worker (28%). educational interventions stressing the appropriate criteria and involvement of the patient are planned at the separate programs.
management of aortic insufficiency in chronic aortic dissection. from january 1980 to december 1988, 44 patients with chronic aortic dissection and aortic insufficiency underwent operation. this group of patients was analyzed to evaluate the outcome of those in whom the aortic valve was preserved compared with those having valve replacement. the overall preoperative characteristics of the two groups were similar except for the incidence of marfan's syndrome. valve replacement was the elected procedure in patients with valve degeneration or annuloaortic ectasia. in patients with leaflet prolapse with or without an enlarged annulus, a plastic procedure was used. in 48% of the patients, it was possible to preserve the valve. there were five hospital deaths (11%): three were due to low-output syndrome, one was due to bleeding, and one was due to neurological complications. there were two late deaths (5%). follow-up of the 37 surviving patients ranged from 2 to 108 months (mean follow-up, 18 months). seventy-eight percent of the survivors were in functional class i and the others were in class ii. two patients in whom the aortic valve was preserved had mild aortic insufficiency. three patients with bioprostheses underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve dysfunction. one patient who had aortoplasty and an aortic valve plastic procedure was seen with redissection and aortic insufficiency after 60 months and was reoperated on using the bentall technique. the actuarial survival curves showed that patients who underwent valvoplasty had higher, but not significantly higher, survival rates than the valve replacement patients.
a perspective on reducing salt intake. epidemiological, clinical, and experimental evidence links excessive salt consumption to hypertension; there appears to be no evidence that it is beneficial. i conclude that it should be public policy to advise and help americans to reduce their salt intake. because even mild hypertension increases risk, the overall problem does not appear to be amenable to treatment, although treatment for those with clinical hypertension will always be needed. there appears to be little likelihood that identification of those "at risk" will be successful, nor does it appear that we have the capacity at this time to conduct successful preventive field trials. it is difficult for the individual to modify his diet alone. the successful strategy is to modify the food supply by changing public demand. the public responds to dietary advice if acceptable and identifiable products are available. because most of the salt is in commercially prepared foods and because their consumption will increase in the future, the major responsibility for lowering salt consumption will fall on the food manufacturers. they are beginning to respond, and there appears to be ample opportunity for them to reduce the salt content of foods markedly. our temporary objectives, however, should be modest, because unrealistic objectives only discourage those who attempt to follow them.
immediate preoperative phlebotomy with autologous blood donation for aortic replacement. the preferential use of autologous blood provided by phlebotomy can reduce the need for homologous blood transfusion in patients undergoing extensive elective operations. this blood is usually provided either by intraoperative isovolemic hemodilution or phlebotomy one to two weeks preoperatively. to minimize the intraoperative time delay or preoperative period between phlebotomy and operation required in these patients, we performed preoperative isovolemic hemodilution in 69 patients one to two days prior to elective aortic replacement for infrarenal aneurysmal disease. patients underwent phlebotomy a mean of 0.57 +/- 0.01 liter of whole blood; volume was replaced with lactated ringer's solution. hematocrit levels decreased from a mean value of 42.9 +/- 0.4 per cent to 33.7 +/- 0.3 per cent. mean intraoperative blood loss was 1.2 +/- 0.05 liters. hemodynamic parameters (blood pressure, cardiac output, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, central venous pressure, oxygen delivery and systemic vascular resistance) remained stable throughout the perioperative and intraoperative time periods. in addition, we evaluated the technical modification of exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy (n = 50) versus open aneurysmorraphy (n = 19) on reduction of intraoperative homologous blood transfusion in these patients. seventy-two per cent (36 of 50) of patients whose aneurysms were excluded received no homologous blood intraoperatively. blood loss was decreased in the excluded versus open aneurysmorraphy group, 920 +/- 90 milliliters versus 2,030 +/- 250 milliliters, as were homologous blood transfusion requirements, 175 +/- 35 milliliters versus 570 +/- 119 milliliters. two patients died (2.9 per cent mortality rate), and there was no increase in morbidity. surgical treatment of large aortic aneurysms is frequently performed on an urgent basis; thus, provision of autologous blood for this operation in a short period of time may be beneficial. isovolemic hemodilution performed during the immediate preoperative period can reduce homologous blood requirements and be safely performed without adverse effects on mortality, morbidity and myocardial performance. exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy may further reduce dependence on homologous blood.
direct measurement of skeletal muscle fatigue in patients with chronic heart failure. skeletal muscle function was measured as force production and fatigue in both the quadriceps (a large locomotive muscle) and adductor pollicis (a small intrinsic hand muscle) in five healthy volunteers, five patients with mild chronic heart failure, and five patients with severe chronic heart failure. the quadriceps of patients with chronic heart failure had a reduced muscle cross sectional area, a reduced maximum isometric force production, and an increased tendency to fatigue. isometric force production and fatigue of the adductor pollicis, however, were not significantly different between the three groups under control conditions. but during circulatory occlusion fatigue in the adductor pollicis increased more in the patients with severe chronic heart failure. these differing findings in quadriceps and adductor pollicis suggest that skeletal muscle atrophy and reduced isometric force production are not a necessary consequence of chronic heart failure per se, because they were only present in the large locomotive muscle. the normal values for muscle fatigue observed in adductor pollicis in patients with chronic heart failure imply that skeletal muscle blood flow must increase normally during muscle activation when only a small muscle mass is used. these results are not compatible with the concept of a generalised impairment of normal vasodilatation within active skeletal muscle. in contrast, activation of a large muscle, such as quadriceps, results in the rapid onset of fatigue in patients with severe chronic heart failure. this fatigue may be related to the inability of the cardiovascular system to provide the required blood flow for the activation of a large muscle mass.
hiv-associated myocarditis. pathology and immunopathology. autopsy studies of aids (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) patients showed a high incidence of myocarditis. to attain a better understanding of the pathogenesis, the pathology and immunopathology of nine endomyocardial biopsies with active myocarditis from 18 human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-positive patients were systematically characterized. these were compared with 17 biopsies with active myocarditis from patients without aids risk factors. in both groups, the myocarditis consisted of either multifocal or interstitial infiltrates of small lymphocytes and isolated myocyte necrosis. the lymphocytes consisted of t cells (cd2+, cd3+) and cells not identified by the usual markers. b cells, monocytes, cd4+ cells, and natural killer (nk) cells were only rarely observed. all of the hiv-positive patients but only 7 of 17 non-hiv patients had cd8+ lymphocytes in the infiltrates (p less than 0.01). the arteriolar endothelium demonstrated induced class i (hla-a, b, c) and ii (hla-dr) antigens in both groups. in situ hybridization for hiv-1 failed to identify the virus in the specimens. the immunopathology is consistent with a cell-mediated injury to the myocytes in hiv-positive patients and is similar to a subgroup of myocarditis in the non-hiv group.
late relapse with nodular lymphoma after treatment for diffuse non-hodgkin's lymphoma. histologic conversion from a low-grade non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) into a more aggressive histologic pattern is a common, well-documented event in nhl. the converse phenomenon, appearance of a low-grade, follicular nhl after treatment for diffuse, intermediate, or high-grade nhl, has only recently been recognized. the clinical, morphologic, and immunologic features of a patient in whom relapse with an indolent nodular lymphoma was noticed after combination chemotherapy for diffuse lymphoma are presented. immunologic markers at presentation and relapse were similar. other previously reported cases are reviewed. implications for diagnosis and therapy as well as the pathogenesis of this unique form of conversion are discussed.
sudden infant death syndrome in infants of substance-abusing mothers. a population-based study was performed to determine whether substance abuse during the perinatal period may be a risk factor for sudden infant death syndrome (sids). the incidence of sids was studied in 2143 infants of substance-abusing mothers (isam) born in los angeles county during 1986 and 1987 who were reported to the los angeles county department of health services because of a history of drug exposure or positive urine test results in the mother, infant, or both. by comparing the isam birth reports with records of autopsy-proven sids in los angeles county, we found 19 sids cases in the population of 2143 isam, a sids rate of 8.87 cases per 1000 isam (95% confidence interval 5.3 to 13.8). this was significantly higher than the sids rate for the non-isam general population: 396 sids deaths among 325,372 live births, an incidence rate of 1.22 cases per 1000 births, p less than 0.00001. the age of isam at death was 99 +/- 63 (mean +/- sd) days compared with 91 +/- 52 days for the non-isam population (not significant). the incidence of sids was significantly greater in male infants, during the winter months, in black infants, and in non-hispanic white infants in the non-isam population. such differences were not observed in the isam group. a greater incidence of symptomatic apnea was reported before sids for the isam than for the non-isam population (22% vs 5.4%, p = 0.022). we conclude that isam have a higher incidence of sids than the non-isam general population. however, it was not possible to separate maternal substance abuse from other confounding variables that may also have had an impact on sids risk in the isam group.
risk of gastric cancer after gastric surgery for benign disorders. the objective of this review was to evaluate published evidence for the association between gastric resection for benign disorders and subsequent cancer of the gastric remnant. we searched the literature through medline (1970 to 1988) and through the references of relevant articles. fifty-eight studies consisting of case series, uncontrolled surveys, and case control or cohort analyses were identified and critically assessed using defined methodological criteria. there were no consistent differences between the expected and observed number of cancers occurring within 15 years after gastric resection. however, all case control studies and seven of the eight cohort analyses, in which the prevalence of cancer was stratified by time since gastric resection, indicated a twofold to fourfold increase in the risk of gastric cancer in patients who survived 15 or more years after gastric surgery. we conclude that most studies of the association of gastric surgery with subsequent gastric cancer have relatively weak designs. still, the repetitive demonstration of this association by different investigators using different research designs supports the hypothesis that gastric resection increases the risk of cancer in the gastric remnant.
aspirin reduces the growth of medial and neointimal thickenings in balloon-injured rat carotid arteries. we analyzed the effect of aspirin on the growth of experimentally induced vascular thickenings in rat carotid arteries. vascular thickenings were induced by denudation of the endothelium in the left carotid artery with a balloon catheter. administration of aspirin-rich food (17.4 g/kg body wt/day) was started 1 week before and continued 2 weeks after injury. nine rats were used. a control group of equal size received normal food. sizes of the tunica media, the neointima, and the open vessel lumen were measured on cross sections of carotid segments with the aid of a videomorphometry system. the results show that in the aspirin group, neointimal lesions are significantly smaller than in the control group (0.14 mm2 versus 0.23 mm2; p less than 0.5). thickenings of the tunica media are also reduced (0.11 mm2 versus 0.12 mm2; p less than 0.5). it is suggested that aspirin reduces both medial hypertrophy and neointimal outgrowth in injury-induced atherosclerosis.
buerger's colour. cyanosis of the hands and feet in buerger's disease is known as 'buerger's colour'. this characteristic skin colour is produced by the subpapillary venous plexus. the reactions of the subpapillary venous plexus in patients with buerger's disease were observed by analysing the fractional blood volume of tissue using a visible light reflective spectrophotometer. capillary morphology was investigated using an intravital video-microscopic system. twenty-seven subjects, comprising 13 normals and 14 patients with buerger's disease, were studied. in the nailbeds of patients with buerger's disease, an increase in the number of loops, cyanotic colour change and dilatation were observed. in this condition there was incompetence of venular tonus and regurgitation at venular valves. buerger's colour is probably due to excessive congestion of venous blood in the subpapillary venous plexus which is produced by these mechanisms.
hypercapnic respiratory failure due to l-tryptophan-induced eosinophilic polymyositis. a 24-year-old man presenting with fever, rash, and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness. muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis, due to the ingestion of large quantities of l-tryptophan as a dietary supplement. complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration. significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity.
vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for reconstruction of defects around the groin and pelvis. we present our experience using the vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for the repair of defects around the groin and pelvis. it is a relatively new technique, with many advantages over other flaps used in this area, though it has limitations. the history, anatomy and surgical technique of raising the flap are described and clinical cases are discussed. the importance of patient selection is highlighted.
clostridium difficile--a common and costly colitis. clostridium difficile infection manifests as a self-limiting diarrhea, protracted colitis, or toxic pseudomembranous colitis. the incidence of c. difficile in a 514-bed community hospital was studied retrospectively; 155 patients of a total 18,262 admitted during 1988 were identified with c. difficile as an admitting or subsequent diagnosis. the method of diagnosis, mode of therapy, and related costs were analyzed. we have determined that education, with an emphasis on pathogenesis and prevention, is necessary to reduce the incidence in the hospital and the cost to the patient.
infective dermatitis of jamaican children: a marker for htlv-i infection in jamaican children infective dermatitis is a chronic eczema associated with refractory nonvirulent staphylococcus aureus or beta-haemolytic streptococcus infection of the skin and nasal vestibule. 14 children between the ages of 2 and 17 years with typical infective dermatitis, attending the dermatology clinic at the university hospital of the west indies in jamaica, were tested for antibody to human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1). all were seropositive, whereas 11 children of similar age with atopic eczema were all negative. in 2 of 2 cases of infective dermatitis, the biological mother was htlv-1 seropositive. none of the 14 patients showed signs of adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma, though experience with previous cases of infective dermatitis indicates the possibility of such progression.
thromboxane a2 and development of genetic hypertension in the lyon rat strain. to determine whether the increased renal biosynthesis of thromboxane a2 observed in young genetically hypertensive rats of the lyon strain could be involved in the development of their hypertension, lyon hypertensive female rats received either thromboxane synthetase inhibitors (dazmegrel or oky 046) or a thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist (ah 23848) during their prehypertensive stage. treatment from 5 to 9 weeks of age with dazmegrel failed to reduce systolic blood pressure. when given from 3 to 9 weeks of age, dazmegrel and oky 046 induced a similar progressive and specific reduction (60%) in the urinary excretion of thromboxane b2 that was associated with a transient decrease in blood pressure level with dazmegrel and a longer lasting blood pressure-lowering effect with oky 046. ah 23848, given according to the same schedule, normalized the blood pressure level. this effect persisted 1 week after the cessation of the treatment. interestingly, active doses of thromboxane synthetase inhibitors or of thromboxane a2 receptor blocker required a 3-week delay to exhibit their antihypertensive properties. it is concluded that 1) the elevated production of thromboxane a2 observed in young lyon hypertensive rats is likely to participate actively in their blood pressure regulation and 2) this effect may be independent of its direct vasoconstrictor properties.
serum and tissue magnesium concentrations in patients with heart failure and serious ventricular arrhythmias. objective: to compare magnesium concentrations in serum and tissue from patients with heart failure. two groups of patients were compared, those with or without serious ventricular arrhythmias. design: consecutive enrollment. blinded laboratory analyses. setting: referral inpatient service of the cardiology division of a university hospital. patients: twenty-three patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and mild to moderately severe congestive heart failure (new york heart association functional class ii to iv) were divided into two groups: 9 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardias and 14 patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias (control). interventions: medications for heart failure were withdrawn 12 hours or more before study. antiarrhythmic therapy was continued throughout the study. measurements and main results: the patients had skeletal muscle biopsies, myocardial biopsies, and blood sampling for the analysis of magnesium concentrations. no statistically significant differences in the mean magnesium concentrations in serum, circulating mononuclear cells, skeletal muscle, and myocardium were found when the 9 patients with ventricular arrhythmias were compared with the 14 control patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias. conclusions: in a general, ambulatory sample of patients with heart failure, magnesium depletion in serum and tissue does not appear to occur more commonly in patients with serious ventricular arrhythmias than in patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias.
changes in anal canal sensation after childbirth. obstetic trauma predisposes to faecal incontinence. anal canal sensation is impaired in incontinent patients. to assess the effect of childbirth on anal canal sensation anal mucosal electrosensitivity was measured in 122 primiparous patients in the immediate postnatal period and in 74 at 6 months postpartum. there were 35 normal vaginal deliveries, 36 forceps deliveries, 20 ventouse extractions, ten vaginal breech deliveries and 21 caesarean sections. sensation was impaired in the lower, mid and upper anal canal immediately after delivery in those patients who had a normal vaginal delivery or a forceps delivery when compared with controls or with those delivered by caesarean section. women who had ventouse deliveries had impaired sensation immediately after delivery in the mid anal canal compared with controls and those undergoing caesarean section. by 6 months there were no differences between any group. patients who sustained a division of the external anal sphincter at delivery had impaired sensation which persisted in the upper anal canal at 6 months.
long-term postthoracotomy pain. we used a pain questionnaire to evaluate the prevalence and functional significance of long-term postthoracotomy pain. data on 56 patients who were at least 2 months postsurgery were analyzed. thirty patients (54 percent) with a median follow-up of 19.5 months had persistent pain; 26 others were pain free at a median of 30.5 months postthoracotomy. pain was reported in 24 of 44 patients (55 percent) who were more than one year after surgery, 13 of 29 patients (45 percent) more than two years, six of 16 (38 percent) more than three years, and three of ten patients (30 percent) greater than four years postthoracotomy. pain intensity was low, but 13 patients stated that pain "slightly" or "moderately" interfered with their lives. five of 56 patients had sufficiently severe chronic pain to require either daily analgesic use, nerve blocks, relaxation therapy, acupuncture, or referral to a pain clinic. we conclude that long-term chest wall pain is common postthoracotomy. it is generally not severe, but a small proportion of patients may experience persistent, moderately disabling pain.
ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis for preventing recurrence of surgically treated crohn's disease. long-term follow-up of six patients. to prevent coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection, an ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis was constructed in six patients with crohn's disease. the patients were observed for more than 7 years and were compared with 21 crohn patients in whom conventional end-to-end ileocolic anastomosis was performed during the same period. the outcome was more favorable in the group with nipple valve anastomosis, i.e., longer interval between surgery and symptomatic relapse, and tendency to less frequent recurrence and re-resection. an association was found between radiologically preserved nipple valve and remission, and two patients with intact valve at long-term follow-up remained symptom-free. the observations implied that protection of the terminal ileum from coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection for crohn's disease may favorably influence the prognosis.
diagnoses of acute lower respiratory tract infections in children in rawalpindi and islamabad, pakistan. a hospital-based inpatient and outpatient study of 1,492 cases of acute lower respiratory tract infection (alri) was conducted from november 1986 to march 1988 in two hospitals in rawalpindi and islamabad, pakistan. specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate were processed for viral studies in all cases; blood cultures were performed in 1,331 cases; and urine was obtained for detection of bacterial antigen in 378 cases, but 227 of these samples had bacterial contamination and were discarded. respiratory syncytial virus was identified in 33% of cases, and haemophilus influenzae and streptococcus pneumoniae were identified in 9.6% and 9.9% of cases, respectively. nonencapsulated h. influenzae accounted for 32% of the haemophilus isolates, and type b was the only encapsulated h. influenzae strain identified. of the s. pneumoniae serotypes isolated, 31% are not included in the currently available polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine. no clinical characteristic was demonstrated to be a reliable indicator for bacterial alri.
acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula: report of 16 consecutive cases. sixteen cases of acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula were treated in a 20-year period. a delay in diagnosis was usual, and most patients were first seen with a pulmonary infection already developed. contrast esophageal x-ray studies established the diagnosis in all patients. there were seven esophagotracheal and nine esophagobronchial fistulas. a fistula between the esophageal diverticulum and a bronchus considered to be of inflammatory origin developed in 7 patients. a fistula as the consequence of trauma developed in 9 patients, and these fistulas were situated at a higher level of the respiratory tree. all patients underwent surgical treatment; in 12 it was definitive, and in 4 temporary gastrostomy was performed to improve nutrition before definite repair. the definitive repair consisted of eventual diverticulectomy, division of the fistula, and suture of both esophageal and respiratory defects. two patients required esophageal resection and later reconstruction with colon interposition. one patient died, creating an operative mortality of 8.3% in the definitive-repair group. the remaining 11 patients had a gratifying long-term result. there were two deaths in the gastrostomy group due to an extremely poor condition of patients and debilitating pulmonary infection. early diagnosis of this rare condition is necessary if severe pulmonary complications are to be avoided. early direct repair gives excellent results.
cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor. seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found. in two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed. in five patients, in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum, conservative operations (three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections) were performed, thus avoiding needless, more extensive surgery.
digoxin for atrial fibrillation: a drug whose time has gone? for over 200 years digitalis compounds have been used to treat atrial fibrillation. the rapid ventricular response to atrial fibrillation is frequently treated with digoxin to produce a controlled heart rate. digoxin has also been proposed as a treatment for terminating recent-onset atrial fibrillation, for maintaining sinus rhythm after an episode of atrial fibrillation, and as prophylactic therapy in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to prevent excessive tachycardia during a paroxysm. perhaps because it has been used for so long, few of these indications have been studied scientifically until recently. studies now suggest that in patients with atrial fibrillation, digoxin is a poor drug for controlling heart rate during exertion, has little or no effect in terminating the arrhythmia, and may occasionally aggravate paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. despite adequate digitalization, the heart rate at the onset of a paroxysm of fibrillation in patients receiving the drug does not differ from the heart rate in patients not receiving it. this article discusses the current role of digoxin in the management of patients with chronic, recent-onset, or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
treatment of status migrainosus: the american experience. dependence upon a variety of drugs--ergotamine, analgesics, benzodiazepines, corticosteroids--is a major reason for patients to enter an intractable phase of their migrainous disorders. repeated dosing of dihydroergotamine has proven to be remarkably effective in stabilizing the mechanism of migraine, allowing these patients to make the transition to a more reasonable as well as more specific form of therapy.
comparison of vastus medialis obliquus: vastus lateralis muscle integrated electromyographic ratios between healthy subjects and patients with patellofemoral pain. the purpose of this study was to compare vastus medialis obliquus:vastus lateralis muscle (vmo:vl) integrated electromyographic (iemg) ratios of healthy subjects and patients with unilateral patellofemoral pain (pfp) under isotonic and isometric quadriceps femoris muscle contraction conditions. subjects ranging in age from 18 to 35 years (mean = 28.06, sd = 5.97) were assigned to one of three groups on the basis of type of knee condition. in group 1, which consisted of seven healthy control subjects with no history of knee pathology, both knees were tested. in group 2, which consisted of nine patients with unilateral pfp, only the painful knee was tested. in group 3, which consisted of the same nine patients who comprised group 2, only the nonpainful knee was tested. nonnormalized and normalized vmo:vl iemg ratios were computed for ascending stairs, descending stairs, submaximal isometric contraction, and maximal isometric contraction (nonnormalized only). a two-way analysis of variance for repeated measures indicated vmo:vl ratios for isotonic stair-climbing activities were significantly greater than vmo:vl ratios for isometric contractions. nonnormalized vmo:vl ratios in group 1 were significantly greater than nonnormalized vmo:vl ratios in the other two groups. patients with pfp may have abnormal vmo:vl activation patterns, and isotonic quadriceps femoris muscle exercise may elicit more favorable muscle activation patterns than isometric exercise for patients with pfp.
postinduction repression of the beta-interferon gene is mediated through two positive regulatory domains. virus induction of the human beta-interferon (beta-ifn) gene results in an increase in the rate of beta-ifn mrna synthesis, followed by a rapid postinduction decrease. in this paper, we show that two beta-ifn promoter elements, positive regulatory domains i and ii (prdi and prdii), which are required for virus induction of the beta-ifn gene are also required for the postinduction turnoff. although protein synthesis is not necessary for activation, it is necessary for repression of these promoter elements. examination of nuclear extracts from cells infected with virus reveals the presence of virus-inducible, cycloheximide-sensitive, dna-binding activities that interact specifically with prdi or prdii. we propose that the postinduction repression of beta-ifn gene transcription involves virus-inducible repressors that either bind directly to the positive regulatory elements of the beta-ifn promoter or inactivate the positive regulatory factors bound to prdi and prdii.
a retrospective outcome study and review of hypnosis as treatment of adults with sleepwalking and sleep terror. hypnosis has been described anecdotally to be effective in the treatment of sleepwalking and sleep terror, potentially dangerous parasomnias. the authors report the use of hypnosis in the treatment of 27 adult patients with these disorders. a total of 74% of these individuals reported much or very much improvement when followed over substantial periods after instruction in self-hypnotic exercises that were practiced in the home. hypnosis, often preferred over pharmacotherapy by patients, required one to six office visits (mean = 1.6). this represents a very cost-effective and noninvasive means of treatment, especially when constrasted with lengthy psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy.
menopausal estrogen replacement therapy and breast cancer we conducted a meta-analysis of the literature concerning breast cancer and estrogen replacement therapy. the overall relative risk of breast cancer associated with this therapy was 1.07. however, the variation of the estimated risks among the studies was far greater than could plausibly be explained by chance alone. to explain this variation, we looked at the effects of type, duration, and dosage of treatment. overall, women who took 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens had a risk of breast cancer that was 1.08 times that of women who did not receive this therapy (95% confidence interval [ci], 0.96 to 1.2). the relative risks from these individual studies of low-dosage therapy did not differ significantly from each other. women who took 1.25 mg/d or more of conjugated estrogens had a breast cancer relative risk of 2.0 or less in all studies. however, the variation in observed risks at this higher dosage was significant. this implies that other risk factors varied among these studies, making it difficult to estimate the overall risk associated with this dosage. the relative risk of breast cancer associated with estrogen replacement therapy among women with a history of benign breast disease was 1.16 (95% ci, 0.89 to 1.5). the combined results from multiple studies provide strong evidence that menopausal therapy consisting of 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens does not increase breast cancer risk.
xeroderma pigmentosum lesions related to ultraviolet transmittance by clothes. xeroderma pigmentosum is associated with severe actinic degeneration of the skin. our patient with xeroderma pigmentosum showed increasing actinic damage in some areas covered by clothes. we therefore performed a complete evaluation of the patient's exposure to ultraviolet radiation. this included transmission measurements of the patient's clothes, glasses, and car windows. the transmission of uvb (280 to 320 nm) by the clothes varied from none to 17.8%. the transmitted uvb radiation was proportional to the clinical manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum. the patient's wardrobe was changed, and uva-blocking film was applied to the windows of the car and house. a decline in manifestations was seen after 18 months of improved ultraviolet protection.
hepatocellular carcinoma presenting with pyrexia and leukocytosis: report of five cases. in the past 26 years we have encountered five patients with primary liver malignancy clinically characterized by high remittent fever and leukocytosis mimicking liver abscess. two patients underwent exploratory laparotomy, and drainage was carried out in another. the clinical courses went rapidly downhill. the liver was cirrhotic in two patients. the interior of the main mass was almost totally necrotic in four cases. histologically, the malignant cells in the main portion resembled sarcoma, but in some areas cells appeared epithelial with eosinophilic cytoplasm and were in a trabecular arrangement, except for one case not subjected to autopsy in which histological study was inadequate because of extensive necrosis. it seems that these neoplasms were very poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas rather than combinations of sarcoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. these patients, therefore, may represent a distinct clinicopathological type of hepatocellular carcinoma that is very rare in japan but perhaps more common in south africa, where similar cases have been clinically described in larger numbers.
logistic discriminant analysis improves diagnostic accuracy of exercise testing for coronary artery disease in women. background. diagnostic accuracy of the exercise electrocardiogram in women has been shown to be limited for the detection of coronary artery disease. new diagnostic methods based on computer analysis of the exercise electrocardiogram and multivariate analysis have improved the diagnostic value of exercise testing in male subjects. the aim of the present study was to assess whether the diagnostic value of exercise testing can be enhanced in women by using multivariate analysis of exercise data. methods and results. between 1978 and 1984, 135 infarct-free women underwent exercise testing and coronary angiography. significant coronary artery disease was present in 41% of the patients. in this first group, maximal exercise variables were submitted to a stepwise logistic analysis. work load, heart rate, and st60x were selected to build a diagnostic model. the model was tested in a second group of 115 catheterized women (significant coronary artery disease in 47%) and of 76 volunteers. we compared the present model with conventional analysis of the exercise electrocardiogram, with st changes adjusted for heart rate, and with a previously described analysis. in both groups, sensitivity was better with the present model (66% and 70%) than by conventional (68% and 59%) and by the previously described analysis (57% and 44%) without a loss of specificity (85% and 93%). receiver-operator characteristic curves showed also a better diagnostic accuracy with the present model. conclusions. in women, logistic analysis of exercise variables improves the diagnostic value of exercise testing. it yields a significantly better sensitivity without a loss of specificity.
the dynamic flexometer: an instrument for the objective evaluation of spasticity. anesthesiologists may care for patients who have spasticity in the operating room or pain clinic. a number of therapeutic modalities for treatment of spasticity exist, but there are few simple objective methods for evaluating their effect. we describe one instrument, the dynamic flexometer, that measures the force required to move the limb passively through its maximum range of motion. the data presented validate the instrument's reliability. two clinical cases presented here demonstrate the instrument's utility. this device may be of value to anesthesiologists involved in the care of patients with spasticity.
prospective observations of 100 high-risk neonates by high-field (1.5 tesla) magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system. ii. lesions associated with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. one hundred neonates determined prospectively to be at risk for neurologic handicap underwent magnetic resonance imaging with a high-field (1.5 t) imager. thirty-three demonstrated a total of 37 lesions consistent with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, including periventricular leukomalacia (n = 12), basal ganglia hemorrhage (n = 5), multicystic encephalomalacia (n = 5), and focal parenchymal hemorrhage (n = 15). diagnoses by ultrasonography and computed tomography were compared with those by magnetic resonance imaging in 29 and 17 infants, respectively. ultrasonography agreed more frequently with magnetic resonance imaging than did computed tomography. ultrasonography detected 79% of lesions demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging whereas computed tomography detected only 41%. periventricular leukomalacia was seen most often in preterm infants, basal ganglia hemorrhage and multicystic encephalomalacia primarily occurred in term infants, and focal parenchymal hemorrhage occurred at all gestational ages. basal ganglia hemorrhage and multicystic encephalomalacia were strongly associated with histories of perinatal asphyxia, seizures, and early abnormal neurological status. all infants with basal ganglia hemorrhage (5/5) and multicystic encephalomalacia (5/5) and the majority with periventricular leukomalacia (9/12) and focal parenchymal hemorrhages (9/15) had developmental abnormalities at discharge.
pelvic lipomatosis associated with cystitis glandularis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder. pelvic lipomatosis is a rare condition characterized by an overgrowth of normal fat in the perivesical and perirectal spaces. cystitis glandularis, cystica or follicularis has been observed in 75% of the patients with pelvic lipomatosis. although cystitis glandularis is widely regarded as premalignant few reports have documented its transition to adenocarcinoma. we describe a 41-year-old man with pelvic lipomatosis in whom primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder developed 6 years after a histological diagnosis of cystitis cystica and glandularis was established. to our knowledge this is the second case reported of pelvic lipomatosis associated with proliferative cystitis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder, indicating that intestinal metaplasia of the urothelium may be a precursor of malignancy in these patients.
referral of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis for liver transplantation. all patients with primary biliary cirrhosis referred to this unit for consideration for transplantation between april 1981 and january 1989 were analysed retrospectively to assess whether disease stage at referral affects the outcome after grafting and whether greater awareness of the benefits of the procedure means that patients are now being referred at an earlier stage. seventy of the 107 patients have been grafted, with an overall one year actuarial survival of 62%. a better prognosis at the time of referral, as assessed by both serum bilirubin concentration and a mathematically derived prognostic index, was associated with a greater probability of survival after grafting. patients in the tertile with the best prognosis (median serum bilirubin concentration at referral 84 mumol/l and estimated survival in the absence of transplantation of more than nine months) had a 78% one year actuarial survival after transplantation, whereas those in the tertile with the worst prognosis (median serum bilirubin concentration 467 mumol/l and estimated survival of less than four months) had a one year actuarial survival of only 50%. no trend towards earlier referral of patients, however, was shown using either of these two markers. this retrospective analysis suggests that many patients are being referred too late for an optimal outcome. we recommend that patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who are potential candidates for liver grafting should be referred to a transplant centre before the serum bilirubin concentration approaches 150 mumol/l.
surgical options in postgastrectomy syndromes. the various operations performed for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease can lead to a variety of iatrogenic disorders collectively referred to as the "postgastrectomy syndromes." although the etiology of most of these disorders remains unclear, loss of vagal innervation and bypass, ablation, or destruction of the pylorus clearly are involved in the pathogenesis of most, if not all, of these disorders. unfortunately, there often is also a poorly understood psychological element involved in the pathogenesis. of all ulcer operations, proximal gastric vagotomy results in the fewest physiologic abnormalities and the mildest postoperative symptoms. the continued popularity of this operation should effect a marked reduction in the incidence of disabling postgastrectomy syndromes. fortunately, symptoms severe enough to necessitate remedial operation are uncommon, and conservative medical management is always indicated and usually suffices. when disabling symptoms are refractory, a thorough evaluation of the patient and an accurate classification of the syndrome are essential to guarantee a satisfactory result from surgical intervention. although numerous surgical procedures have been developed to deal with the different syndromes, with varied results, the roux-en-y procedure has emerged as the operation of choice for most, if not all, postgastrectomy syndromes. however, the roux-en-y procedure has not been universally successful, and this operation can itself lead to the recently recognized postgastrectomy state of roux-en-y stasis syndrome. prevention therefore remains the best form of therapy, and remedial operation should not be undertaken until adequate time has elapsed since the original operation and all forms of conservative treatment have failed.
femoral arteriovenous fistula as a complication of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. a report of five cases. arteriovenous fistula (avf) associated with invasive and diagnostic angiographic procedures is rare. the incidence is increased with procedures such as percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) but is still quite low. we report five cases of avf within a 17-month period, representing 0.15 per cent of all cardiac catheterizations and 0.87 per cent of ptcas. all five patients presented with groin bruits. there were two associated pseudoaneurysms and one patient with deep vein thrombosis. all patients underwent uneventful division of the fistula. a thorough understanding of the anatomy of the femoral triangle is necessary in order to avoid this complication. that all fistulas were in the superficial or profunda femoris arteries emphasizes the importance of avoiding a low groin puncture. early angiography and surgical intervention are recommended for optimal results.
the glucose transporter and blood-brain barrier of human brain tumors. the glucose transporter of the human brain has been localized to endothelial cells expressing the blood-brain barrier, but little is known regarding its mechanism of induction or whether its expression is exclusively linked with restricted vascular permeability. we investigated glucose transporter expression by vessels in human astrocytic tumors and pulmonary metastases to the brain using immunohistochemical techniques. vessels in 9 of 10 low-grade astrocytomas and 8 of 10 anaplastic astrocytomas were positive for glucose transporter. glioblastoma vessels were transporter-positive in only 2 of 10 specimens. vessels in all three metastatic tumors were negative for the glucose transporter. the decrease in transporter expression observed in higher-grade tumors occurred independently of increases in vascular permeability. in low-grade astrocytomas and glioblastomas transporter expression and contrast enhancement were inversely related, but vessels in 6 of 9 anaplastic astrocytomas were transporter-positive despite contrast enhancement. these findings suggest that separate mechanisms induce the glucose transporter and the permeability restrictions of the human blood-brain barrier. they also have potential implications for the therapy and prognosis of astroglial neoplasms.
transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials as a prognostic indicator for motor recovery in stroke patients. transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials (mep) were examined in 33 patients within three days after stroke. normal values for mep and motor central conduction time (cct) were obtained in 46 healthy controls whose meps were evaluated during slight voluntary muscle contraction and at rest. two months later 23 patients were re-examined clinically and electrophysiologically. motor function change was correlated with mep results. two months after stroke the patients with normal or prolonged cct had an improved motor function compared with those with absent cct. mep may be a valuable prognostic indicator in the acute stage of paralytic stroke for recovery of motor function.
pulmonary blastomas. pulmonary blastoma is a rare lung tumor composed of immature mesenchyme and/or epithelium that morphologically mimics embryonal pulmonary structure. the prognosis of these tumors is poor, and the clinical course is not readily predicted from histologic appearance. in this report, the clinical, gross, microscopic, and immunopathologic features of 52 cases are described, and prognostically important correlates are determined. twenty-eight patients were women, and 24 were men. there was a unimodal age peak in the fourth decade; only two patients were younger than 10 years old, and both had biphasic blastomas. forty-one percent of patients were asymptomatic. chest radiography typically showed a peripheral or midlung mass without predilection for any lobe. microscopically, tumors could be divided into two classes: those composed solely of malignant glands of embryonal appearance (well-differentiated fetal adenocarcinomas [wdfa], 28 cases) and those with a biphasic appearance (24 cases). the malignant epithelium contained cytokeratin, carcinoembryonic antigen, milk fat globulin, and often chromogranin; vimentin, actin, and less frequently desmin and myoglobin were present in malignant stromal cells. more often wdfa was a smaller tumor (less than 5 cm) than biphasic tumors (p less than or equal to 0.001). it was more likely to be asymptomatic (p less than or equal to 0.001), and it was less likely to show pleural effusion by chest radiography (p less than or equal to 0.01) or giant or bizarre tumor cells (p less than or equal to 0.001) or frequent (greater than or equal to 30 mitoses/10 high-power fields) mitoses in the microscopic sections (p less than or equal to 0.01). only 14% of patients with wdfa died of their tumor; 52% of patients with biphasic tumors died (mean follow-up, 97 months and 49 months, respectively). for patients with wdfa, the presence of thoracic adenopathy by chest radiography (p less than or equal to 0.001) and metastasis at initial presentation (p less than or equal to 0.001), followed by tumor recurrence (p less than or equal to 0.01), were the factors most highly correlated with poor prognosis. for patients with biphasic tumors, tumor recurrence (p less than or equal to 0.001) was the most significant indicator of poor prognosis, followed by metastasis at initial presentation (p less than or equal to 0.05) and gross size of the tumor (greater than or equal to 5 cm) (p less than or equal to 0.05). these findings support the idea that histologic class and gross and clinical findings can be of prognostic value in pulmonary blastoma.
obstructive sleep apnea presenting with nocturnal angina, heart failure, and near-miss sudden death. an obese woman with a one-year history of episodic nocturnal chest pain was admitted because of shock and pulmonary edema. a clinical diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock was made. she was ventilated and successfully resuscitated. subsequent investigations showed no evidence of cardiac dysfunction or coronary disease, but sleep study confirmed the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas). we suggest that the nocturnal angina and heart failure in this patient might have resulted from extreme hypoxemia produced by osas. this case raised the possibility that the high cardiovascular mortality rate reported in osas might not necessarily relate to underlying coronary artery disease. further investigations are required to delineate the true incidence of coronary disease in patients with osas.
central adenoid cystic carcinoma of the mandible. a patient with adenoid cystic carcinoma arising centrally within the mandible, a rare location for this malignant salivary gland tumor, is described. current concepts regarding the etiology, diagnosis, histology, and treatment of central intramandibular salivary gland tumors are discussed and the literature is reviewed.
expression of hla-dr and secretory component antigens and lymphocyte infiltration in human gastric nonmalignant and malignant tissues: an immunohistochemical study. the relation between hla-dr and secretory component (sc) expression and the degree of lymphocyte infiltration was immunohistochemically examined in human gastric mucosa with or without intestinal metaplasia and gastric carcinoma tissues. gastric mucosa without obvious inflammation showed neither expression of hla-dr or sc nor remarkable lymphoid infiltration. in contrast, gastric mucosa with chronic inflammation, tissues with incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia, and carcinoma demonstrated both hla-dr and sc in almost the same area and also prominent lymphoid infiltration in the surrounding stroma. this simultaneous expression of hla-dr and sc was not observed in complete type of intestinal metaplasia. the results indicate a close relationship between expression of hla-dr and sc and the presence of lymphocyte infiltration in gastric mucosa, areas of incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia and in gastric carcinomas.
elevated expression of the c-fes proto-oncogene in adult human myeloid leukemia cells in the absence of gene amplification. expression of the 93-kd tyrosine kinase encoded by the human c-fes proto-oncogene (also known as fes) is restricted to mature hematopoietic cells of the granulocytic and monocytic lineages, suggestive of a function essential to normal myeloid differentiation. however, recent studies have shown that c-fes can transform fibroblasts if sufficient levels of gene expression are achieved. these findings indicate that strict regulation of the c-fes gene is critical to normal myeloid development, whereas elevated c-fes expression may contribute to malignant transformation. in the present study, we compared the c-fes messenger rna (mrna) levels in leukemia blasts from patients with myeloid or lymphoid leukemia with those of peripheral monocytes from a normal donor with the use of a quantitative ribonuclease protection assay. the presence of c-fes mrna was readily detected in both acute myeloid leukemia (aml) and chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) cells, but c-fes mrna was present in low levels or was absent in lymphoid leukemia cells. the leukemia cells of two of five aml patients and four of four cml patients expressed more c-fes mrna than monocytes from a normal donor, with more than a threefold elevation in the cells of one cml patient. no evidence of amplification or rearrangement of the c-fes gene was detectable by southern blot analysis of myeloid leukemia dna, suggesting that the variation in c-fes mrna levels are related to differences in transcriptional activity and/or message stability. these results indicate that elevated c-fes expression is a common feature of myeloid leukemia cells that could potentially contribute to the leukemia phenotype.
continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in hypertensive crises in pregnancy. twenty-four patients first seen with hypertensive crises during pregnancy were studied by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring for a period of 24 hours to detect the presence of serious ventricular arrhythmias. three patients were excluded from analysis because of low serum potassium levels. thirteen of the remaining 21 patients had ventricular tachycardia on subsequent analysis of the electrocardiogram. these arrhythmias subsided after induction of anesthesia when blood pressure control was optimal. this finding may be implicated in the pathogenesis of pulmonary edema and sudden death in these patients.
lateral temporal bone resections. eighteen consecutive patients underwent a lateral temporal bone resection for the treatment of tumors originating in the auricle, the external auditory canal, the periauricular skin, or the parotid and were retrospectively analyzed. the different lateral temporal bone resections performed have been categorized into four types. the type i resection consists of the removal of the tympanic bone and the external auditory canal lateral to the tympanic membrane. the type ii resection consists of the removal of the entire tympanic bone, the tympanic membrane, the incus, and the malleus, preserving the facial nerve and the inner ear. type iii resections remove, in addition to the those structures removed in type ii resections, the distal facial nerve and fallopian canal, the mastoid tip, the styloid process, and the stylomastoid foramen. the type iv resection consists of the removal of only the mastoid tip and the inferior portion of the tympanic bone. when the techniques of lateral temporal bone resection are used appropriately, adequate surgical treatment of patients with selected advanced and recurrent malignant tumors of the external ear, the periauricular skin, and the parotid is possible with low morbidity and a high probability of local regional control.
the oxford knee replacement. a review from an independent centre. we present a study of 67 oxford bicompartmental total knee replacements performed at a district general hospital. in this general orthopaedic unit, 57 of the knees (85%) had significant relief of pain with a mean flexion range of 95 degrees and a mean flexion deformity of only 9 degrees. there was a noticeable difference between osteoarthritic and rheumatoid knees. poor results could be directly related to an avoidable postoperative complication. the results of this independent assessment may be compared favourably with the previously published series from the specialist centre at which the prosthesis was designed.
enhanced hepatic drug clearance in patients with cystic fibrosis. to examine whether hepatic drug metabolism is altered in patients with cystic fibrosis (cf), we evaluated the pharmacokinetics of three model pharmacologic substrates (antipyrine, a marker of hepatic oxidative metabolism; lorazepam, a marker of hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity; and indocyanine green (icg), a marker of hepatic blood flow and biliary secretion) in 14 patients with cf (14.6 to 29.2 years of age) and in 12 children and adolescents with cancer (7.2 to 19.4 years of age), which was treated with only surgery and radiation. each study subject received a single intravenous dose of the combined model substrates (0.03 mg/kg lorazepam, 10 mg/kg antipyrine, and 0.5 mg/kg icg) for 5 minutes, followed by repeated blood sampling (n = 10) during a 24-hour postinfusion period. patients with cf had a significantly greater plasma clearance of lorazepam (56.5 +/- 5.2 vs 25.9 +/- 1.9 ml/min/m2) and icg (892.5 +/- 176.4 vs 256.5 +/- 41.7 ml/min/m2) but not of antipyrine (27.2 +/- 3.8 vs 20.7 +/- 2.0 ml/min/m2) in comparison with control subjects. the apparent steady-state volume of distribution for lorazepam, icg, and antipyrine was significantly higher in the patients with cf (2.0-, 3.1-, and 1.4-fold, respectively) than in control subjects. clearance of the model substrates did not correlate with standard biochemical markers of hepatic function. similarly, no significant relationships were observed between the clearance or steady-state volume of distribution of the compounds and the national institutes of health prognostic scores for the patients with cf. these data demonstrate that the plasma clearance of lorazepam and icg is increased in patients with cf and suggest that hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity and biliary secretory capacity are enhanced in this disease.
genetics of cerebrovascular disease. stroke is a complex disease, with both genetic and environmental factors having a role in its pathogenesis. a review of past studies shows some evidence of genetic influences in the development of stroke. this is supported by studies of cardiovascular disease, which indicate major genetic influences at several levels including the development of risk factors. new approaches to phenotypic classifications, patient ascertainment, and genetic analysis will stimulate research into the role of genetics in cerebrovascular disease.
temporary cardiac pacing using a new, steerable, balloon-tipped pacing catheter. a new balloon-tipped, flow-directed, steerable pacing catheter for unipolar temporary ventricular pacing is presented. it was successfully and uneventfully tested in 25 patients with acute myocardial infarction in the coronary care unit. the main advantage of the new catheter is the ease with which a stable contact may be achieved between the pacing electrode and the endocardium.
clinical-physiologic correlations in acute asthma of childhood. seventy-one patients who presented to the emergency room with acute asthma were evaluated to determine the relationship between common clinical signs and spirometric and transcutaneous arterial oxygen saturation (sao2) measurements. prior to treatment, a physical examination was performed, a clinical score assigned, and pulmonary function and sao2 were measured. although forced expiratory volume in 1 second (fev1) and sao2 had strong correlation with the overall clinical score (r2 = .47, .49 respectively), many patients with low clinical scores and apparent mild clinical disease had low fev1 values (as low as 20% predicted). of the individual components of the clinical score (ie, heart rate, respiratory rate, pulsus paradoxus, accessory muscle use, dyspnea, and wheezing), the degree of accessory muscle use correlated most closely with lung function followed by the degree of dyspnea and wheezing. similarly, the degree of accessory muscle use correlated most closely with sao2 followed by dyspnea and respiratory rate. significant correlation (r2 = .59) was found between sao2 and fev1, although the range of sao2 value for a given fev1 was wide and some patients with low fev1 values had normal sao2 values. these results show that although clinically apparent severe disease and hypoxemia were always associated with low fev1, their absence does not exclude the presence of airflow obstruction. it is concluded that for the optimal evaluation of acute asthma in children in the emergency room, clinical evaluation should be used in conjunction with objective laboratory measurements.
myocardial amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentrations in patients undergoing cardiac transplantation. myocardial amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentrations were measured at multiple sites in the explanted heart in four patients who underwent cardiac transplantation. patients were taking amiodarone, 200 to 400 mg/day (mean 300 +/- 115), for 88 to 428 days (mean 229 +/- 148). the mean cumulative dose was 58 +/- 21.3 g. plasma amiodarone concentration in three subjects was 204, 312 and 419 ng/ml and desethylamiodarone concentration was 268, 513 and 880 ng/ml, respectively. significant interindividual variability in myocardial concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone was observed (p less than 0.05). mean myocardial amiodarone concentration ranged from 4 +/- 1.0 to 29 +/- 17.2 micrograms/g (p less than 0.05); mean desethylamiodarone concentration ranged from 22 +/- 8.8 to 141 +/- 102.5 micrograms/g (p less than 0.05). at each site, save for fat, myocardial desethylamiodarone concentration was higher than amiodarone concentration. greater intraindividual variability was observed in myocardial desethylamiodarone compared with amiodarone concentration particularly in septal and scar tissue (p = ns). no significant relation was found between myocardial concentration and duration of treatment. in patients with significant ventricular disease, usefulness of plasma amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentration to estimate myocardial concentration is limited by intra- and interindividual variability.
a comparison of surfactant as immediate prophylaxis and as rescue therapy in newborns of less than 30 weeks' gestation background. exogenous pulmonary surfactants are administered into the trachea either to prevent respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants or to treat it. in a randomized, multicenter trial, we compared the results of surfactant therapy initiated as prophylaxis with the results of rescue therapy with surfactant. methods. before birth, 479 infants with an estimated gestational age of less than 30 weeks were randomly assigned to receive surfactant as prophylaxis (n = 235) or rescue therapy (n = 244). the infants in the prophylaxis group received a 90-mg intratracheal dose of an exogenous calf-lung surfactant extract at the time of delivery, whereas the infants in the rescue-therapy group received 90 mg of the surfactant several hours after delivery if the fractional inspiratory oxygen concentration was at least 0.40 or if the mean airway pressure was at least 0.686 kpa (7 cm of water), or both. infants in both groups received additional doses of surfactant at intervals of 12 to 24 hours if these criteria were met. results. the proportion of infants surviving until discharge to their homes was significantly higher in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group (88 vs. 80 percent, p = 0.028). this difference was due primarily to the longer survival of very premature infants (less than or equal to 26 weeks' gestation) in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group (75 vs. 54 percent, p = 0.006). according to proportional-hazards regression analysis, the distribution of survival times was better for all infants in the prophylaxis group (p = 0.007) and for the subgroup of infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks' gestation or earlier (p = 0.0048). infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks' gestation or earlier had a lower incidence of pneumothorax than similar infants in the rescue-therapy group (7 vs. 18 percent, p = 0.03). conclusions. we found a significant advantage to the administration of the initial dose of surfactant as prophylaxis rather than as rescue therapy in very premature infants.
leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma and residential proximity to industrial plants. the risks of developing leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma from living near industrial facilities were evaluated among men from iowa and minnesota in a population-based, case-control study. we found a statistically significant increase in the risk of developing non-hodgkin's lymphoma (rr = 1.4) and a slight, nonsignificant excess for leukemia (rr = 1.2) among individuals who lived .8-3.2 km (1/2-2 miles) from a factory. risks were greater for certain histologic types: follicular lymphoma (rr = 1.5), acute lymphocytic leukemia (rr = 5.4), and acute myelocytic leukemia (rr = 2.2). for non-hodgkin's lymphoma (but not for leukemia), the relative risks for those living within .8 km (1/2 mile) of a factory were similar or slightly larger than for those living .8-3.2 km (1/2-2 miles) from a factory. risks did not increase with duration of residence near a factory. the elevated risks of non-hodgkin's lymphoma were particularly associated with residing near stone, clay, or glass industry facilities. the risk of developing leukemia was greater among persons who resided near chemical and petroleum plants. these preliminary findings raise the possibility that general environmental exposure associated with certain industrial activities may elevate the risk of developing leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma. evaluation of data on proximity to industrial plants from studies in other geographic locations is needed to determine whether our results represent a meaningful association.
hepatic histological findings after transplantation for chronic hepatitis b virus infection, including a unique pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. long-term follow-up of 27 patients with hepatitis b virus-related chronic liver disease treated by transplantation showed that 23 had hepatitis b virus recurrence. in 13 patients late changes in the grafts were similar to those described in other series: minor abnormalities in five cases, chronic active hepatitis in five cases and non-hepatitis b virus-related graft dysfunction in three cases. three patients had incomplete histological follow-up. analysis of the histological changes and viral antigen expression in six cases revealed a distinct and novel pattern termed fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. development of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis was associated with rapidly progressive graft dysfunction. it is postulated that this pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis develops because of a high cytoplasmic expression of viral antigens, including hbsag. the remaining case had some features of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. the main histological features of this unique syndrome include thin, perisinusoidal bands of fibrosis extending from portal tracts to surround plates of ductular-type epithelium; prominent cholestasis; ground-glass transformation; and ballooning of hepatocytes with cell loss and mild mixed inflammatory reaction.
laparoscopic cholecystectomy: an initial report. sixty consecutive patients underwent an elective attempt at laparoscopic cholecystectomy between march 15 and july 31, 1990 at the mount sinai hospital in new york. fifty-two patients had successful completion of the laparoscopic cholecystectomy (87%). the reasons for conversion to open cholecystectomy were acute cholecystitis (four patients), inability to define the cystic duct-common duct junction (three patients), and one patient with an unexpected choledochal cyst variant. forty patients (77%) were discharged on the first post-operative day, and the remaining 12 patients on the second post-operative day. thirty-three patients (63%) required only oral pain medication, and 11 patients (21%) needed no pain medication post-operatively. fifty-one patients (98%) had resumed normal activities by the seventh post-operative day. cholecystectomy remains the treatment of choice for biliary colic. laparoscopic cholecystectomy minimizes length of stay in the hospital, lessens post-operative pain, allows quicker return to normal activities, and has a superior cosmetic result.
a prognostic system for transient ischemia or minor stroke. objective: to build a prognostic system for patients with carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke. design: inception cohort study with 2-year follow-up. setting: urban community teaching hospital. patients: eligible patients (n = 142), identified on a carotid ultrasound roster, had been hospitalized between 1984 and 1987 within 30 days of a first carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke. measurements: stroke or death within 2 years. main results: three factors were associated with stroke or death: age of more than 65 years, diabetes, and hypertension. based on regression coefficients, age of more than 65 years was assigned 3 points; diabetes, 3 points; and hypertension, 2 points. an initial prognostic system comprised risk groups 1 (0 points), 2 (1 to 5 points), and 3 (6 to 8 points). outcome rates in the three groups were 2%, 31%, and 54% (p less than 0.0001), respectively. in an independent test sample, the corresponding outcome rates for the initial system were 12%, 21%, and 31% (p = 0.04). a final prognostic system, including two additional predictors (coronary heart disease [1 point] and the distinction between stroke and transient ischemic attack for the baseline event [2 points]), comprised risk groups 1 (0 to 2 points), 2 (3 to 6 points), and 3 (7 to 11 points). corresponding outcome rates were 3%, 27%, and 48% (p less than 0.001) in the original cohort and 10%, 21%, and 59% (p less than 0.001) in the test cohort. conclusion: for selected patients with carotid transient ischemia or minor stroke, five clinical features can be combined to stratify effectively the risk for a subsequent stroke or death.
multimodal therapy for the management of primary, nonmetastatic ewing's sarcoma of bone: a long-term follow-up of the first intergroup study. a total of 342 previously untreated eligible children were entered into the first intergroup ewing's sarcoma study (iess) between may 1973 and november 1978. in group i institutions, patients were randomized between treatment 1 (radiotherapy to primary lesion plus cyclophosphamide, vincristine, dactinomycin, and adriamycin [doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh] [vac plus adr]) or treatment 2 (same as treatment 1 without adr), and group ii institutions randomized patients between treatment 2 or treatment 3 (same as treatment 2 plus bilateral pulmonary radiotherapy [vac plus bpr]). the percentages of patients relapse-free and surviving (rfs) at 5 years for treatments 1, 2, and 3 were 60%, 24%, and 44%, respectively. there was strong statistical evidence of a significant advantage in rfs for treatment 1 (vac plus adr) versus 2 (vac alone) (p less than .001) and 3 (p less than .05) and also of treatment 3 versus 2 (p less than .001). similar significant results were observed with respect to overall survival. patients with disease at pelvic sites have significantly poorer survival at 5 years than those with disease at nonpelvic sites (34% v 57%; p less than .001). among pelvic cases, there was no evidence of differing survival by treatment (p = .81), but among nonpelvic cases, there was strong evidence of differing survival by treatment (p less than .001). the overall percentage of patients developing metastatic disease was 44%; the percentages by treatments 1, 2, and 3 were 30%, 72%, and 42%, respectively. the overall incidence of local recurrence was 15%, and there was no evidence that local recurrence rate differed by treatment. patient characteristics related to prognosis, both with respect to rfs and overall survival experience, were primary site (nonpelvic patients were most favorable) and patient age (younger patients were more favorable).
single cell levels of hypothalamic messenger ribonucleic acid encoding luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in intact, castrated, and hyperprolactinemic male rats. we have examined the changes that occur in neuronal expression of lhrh mrna in response to castration and hyperprolactinemia in male rats. single cell levels of lhrh mrna were determined by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry using an 35s-labeled synthetic 48-base oligodeoxynucleotide probe and quantitative autoradiography. nine days postcastration, a 10.4-fold increase in mean plasma lh titers was observed which was associated with significantly increased lhrh mrna in rostral hypothalamic neuronal cell bodies. both increases were blocked in rats rendered hyperprolactinemic by the presence of the 7315a prl-secreting pituitary tumor. the location and number of neurons expressing lhrh mrna were unchanged, indicating that these differences were attributable to amounts of mrna expressed per neuron. experimental differences occurred in lhrh perikarya situated throughout the rostral hypothalamus from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the caudal extent of the medial preoptic nucleus. these results suggest that gonadal steroids and prl are involved, either directly or indirectly, in regulating the biosynthesis of lhrh in the rostral hypothalamus.
pivotal role of early and sustained infarct vessel patency in patients with acute myocardial infarction. thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction unequivocally has improved short- and long-term mortality. the fundamental goal of therapy for evolving myocardial infarction is early and sustained infarct vessel recanalization. the mechanisms linking an open artery with improved long-term survival and other clinical outcomes are presented with use of data from extensive clinical trials.
rapid diagnosis of lung cancer from palpable metastases by needle thrust. this study encourages the use of percutaneous fnb to diagnose and stage advanced lung cancer in patients with palpable metastases in supraclavicular lymph nodes or soft tissues. percutaneous fnb of metastases is much easier to learn than transthoracic needle aspiration: the superficial target is anchored and sampled with multiple passes using a short needle grasped directly in the fingers. it is fast, accurate, economical and nearly free of risk and pain. the technique saves time and money because it is the only procedure needed by many patients with palpable disease in stage iiib and iv. bronchoscopy, transthoracic needle aspiration and open surgical biopsy thus can be avoided in most patients with palpable metastases. prompt diagnosis by fnb of metastases speeds palliation for patients with urgent need. tumor cell type from fnb correlated with cytologic findings from sputum samples, bronchoscopy specimens and autopsy results.
an extracorporeal perfusion system to bridge pediatric liver transplant candidates. an extracorporeal liver perfusion system was designed to maintain cadaver livers in an oxygenated, normothermic state for bridging procedures for hepatic transplantation. nonpulsatile high flow and pulsatile low flow blood are supplied to the portal venous (pv) and hepatic arterial (ha) circulations. controlled low blood flow (5-10 cc/kg [patient]/min) is exchanged between the high flow extracorporeal perfusion circuit (1 cc/g [liver]/min) and the patient. the system was evaluated in perfusions of fresh, excised pig livers (n = 5). the average oxygen consumption was 9 +/- 3 microliters/g/min, and bile production averaged 4.7 microliters/g/hr. perfusion pressures and flows were normal in both the ha and pv circulations for about 4 hr. pressures then gradually rose, especially in the ha circulation, causing flow to decrease, with subsequent mottling and discoloration of the liver. red blood cell, platelet, and white blood cell counts fell continuously. maintenance of liver function was assessed by clearance of an 80 mg taurocholic acid challenge. an average of 56% of injected acid was cleared from the perfused livers (n = 5) in the first half hour, compared with 90% and 25% for the in situ (n = 3) and unperfused (n = 3) control livers, respectively. the system consistently maintained livers in a moderately well functioning state through the first 4 hr of perfusion. adequate support of animals with induced hepatic failure must now be demonstrated.
immune-competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients: ii. immunohistochemical analysis of leu-7+ cells. distribution of leu-7+ cells in cancer tissues and regional lymph nodes was immunohistochemically examined to estimate the role of nk cells in colorectal cancer patients. leu-7+ cells were rarely observed both in the primary and distant metastatic lesions, but the number of these cells was large in the germinal center of the lymph nodes. studies of leu-7+ cell population in the lymph node indicated that intermediate nodes in n0 and n1 groups showed significantly higher values than those in the control group. comparative study of the population in identical patients revealed a significantly higher rate in the intermediate nodes than in the paracolic nodes both in n0 and n1 groups. these data suggest that leu-7+ cells might be related to the defense mechanism of regional lymph nodes against tumor.
from the parallel group design to the crossover design, and from the group approach to the individual approach. the consequences of heterogeneity in response to antihypertensive drugs for the clinical development programs of new antihypertensive drugs and for the care of the individual hypertensive patient have not previously been sufficiently recognized. they play a role in the inappropriate choice of too-high daily doses of some antihypertensive drugs at the end of extensive international development programs. they are also implicated in the insufficient control of blood pressure observed in the long-term multicenter trials in hypertension, where some patients have been treated for several years with drugs that were not the most appropriate for their disease and which did not adequately control their blood pressure. in addition to the parallel group studies, the use of double-blind two-period or multiple period crossover designs can provide valid data for the dose-finding of new antihypertensive drugs and their comparative evaluation. at the end of the trial, these designs also offer each patient the opportunity to be treated with the right dose of the drug most appropriate for his or her disease.
relation between sodium intake, renal function, and the regulation of arterial pressure. the long-term regulation of arterial pressure requires the maintenance of a balance between sodium and water intake and sodium and water excretion. normal salt and water balance leads to stable body fluid volumes and the maintenance of normal renal function is critical to establishing extracellular fluid volume homeostasis. this review focuses on the role of the kidney in the long-term control of salt and water balance with particular emphasis on the relations between sodium intake, the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, renal sympathetic nerve activity, and the regulation of arterial pressure via renal sodium and water excretion. the accumulation of evidence in recent years demonstrates that low level elevation of renin release, circulating angiotensin ii or aldosterone, or activation of renal sympathetic outflow may alter renal function such that normal natriuretic and diuretic responses to arterial pressure are significantly impeded. under these circumstances, the maintenance of normal sodium and water excretion requires a significant elevation of arterial pressure. thus, compromised renal function leads to elevation of arterial pressure to maintain adequate sodium and water balance during periods of increased sodium intake. the resultant chronic elevation of arterial pressure then becomes a compromise that is used by the kidneys to maintain normal extracellular body fluid volumes.
orbital intramuscular schwannoma. in an 8-year-old girl with asymptomatic proptosis, computed tomographic scans showed a large medial orbital mass that contoured the globe anteriorly, bowed the optic nerve laterally, and extended posteriorly to the orbital apex. t1-weighted coronal magnetic resonance images showed the mass to be a diffusely enlarged medial rectus muscle. histopathologic examination of a medial rectus muscle biopsy specimen disclosed a multinodular, intramuscular schwannoma, separating and infiltrating normal skeletal muscle fibers. the intramuscular location and multinodular configuration of this tumor, together with its occurrence in a child, distinguish it from previous orbital schwannomas.
progression of human papillomavirus type 18-immortalized human keratinocytes to a malignant phenotype. we have developed a model system for progression of human epithelial cells to malignancy, using a human papillomavirus type 18 (hpv-18)-immortalized human keratinocyte cell line. cells of cell line fep-1811 were nontumorigenic in athymic mice through at least 12 passages in culture, but after 32 passages were weakly tumorigenic, producing tumors that regressed. after 62 passages they produced invasive squamous cell carcinomas that grew progressively. the progression to malignancy was associated with an increase in the efficiency of forming colonies in soft agar and with altered differentiation properties. in an organotypic culture system, fep-1811 cells at passages 12 and 32 exhibited features typical of premalignant intraepithelial neoplasia in vivo, and cells at passage 68 exhibited features consistent with squamous cell carcinomas. no change in copy number of the transfected hpv-18 genome or in the level of expression of the viral transforming gene products e6 and e7 was detected between tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells. cytogenetic analysis of cells at early, middle, and late passage levels and cells cultured from tumors revealed that several chromosomal abnormalities segregated with the tumorigenic cell populations.
results of treatment of persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous. the records of 48 patients with persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous (phpv) were reviewed. approximately 17% had vision of 20/100 or better after surgery, contact lens fitting, and amblyopia therapy. only eyes with a purely anterior presentation had successful visual outcomes. lensectomy alone prevented glaucoma, but a membranectomy as well was required to ensure a successful visual result. eyes with a posterior phpv had poor visual results because of posterior pole abnormalities. i recommend that an attempt be made to visually salvage eyes with an anterior presentation. eyes with a posterior or a combination anterior-posterior phpv can be successfully treated for glaucoma, but the visual results will be poor.
tumor necrosis factor and severe malaria. to investigate the relation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf alpha) to plasmodium falciparum infection, plasma tnf alpha concentrations were measured in zairian children with severe malaria, mild malaria, or other illnesses. the initial geometric mean plasma concentration of tnf alpha among 61 children with p. falciparum infection, (71 pg/ml) was higher than the level in 26 severely ill, aparasitemic children (10 pg/ml; p less than .001). among 29 parasitemic children, initial geometric mean tnf alpha levels decreased from 77 to 5 pg/ml (p less than .001) at day 7. tnf alpha levels increased with parasite density and were associated with hyperparasitemia, severe anemia, hypoglycemia, and young age but not with cerebral malaria or fatal outcome. however, tnf alpha levels were elevated equally in children with cerebral malaria and with other signs of severe malaria. with multiple linear regression, tnf alpha levels were elevated independently in children with hyperparasitemia (p = .001) and severe anemia (p = .04). in this study, high tnf alpha levels were associated with several manifestations of severe malaria and were not specific to cerebral malaria.
relation of central obesity and insulin resistance with high diabetes prevalence and cardiovascular risk in south asians. the hypothesis that the high mortality from coronary heart disease (chd) in south asians settled overseas compared with other populations is due to metabolic disturbances related to insulin resistance was tested in a population survey of 3193 men and 561 women aged 40-69 years in london, uk. the sample was assembled from industrial workforces and general practitioners' lists. in comparison with the european group, the south asian group had a higher prevalence of diabetes (19% vs 4%), higher blood pressures, higher fasting and post-glucose serum insulin concentrations, higher plasma triglyceride, and lower hdl cholesterol concentrations. mean waist-hip girth ratios and trunk skinfolds were higher in the south asian than in the european group. within each ethnic group waist-hip ratio was correlated with glucose intolerance, insulin, blood pressure, and triglyceride. these results confirm the existence of an insulin resistance syndrome, prevalent in south asian populations and associated with a pronounced tendency to central obesity in this group. control of obesity and greater physical activity offer the best chances for prevention of diabetes and chd in south asian people.
arterial abnormalities of the hand in athletes. vascular lesions of the hand may be seen in athletes exposed to repetitive blunt trauma. thirteen athletes seen from 1983 to 1988 experienced symptoms related to hand ischemia. nine were professional baseball catchers. the majority of patients complained of chronic symptoms, including cold hypersensitivity (four patients), finger numbness (one), finger coolness (three), and finger blanching (three). two patients had acute symptoms with sudden posttraumatic hand ischemia with finger and palmar pain. diagnosis was established by history and physical examination and confirmed by noninvasive testing. testing included use of doppler examination and cold tolerance examination with thermistors. two athletes required angiographic evaluation because of severe ischemia and continuous pain. all patients in this group were managed nonoperatively. those with chronic complaints were counseled regarding cold avoidance and instructed to increase their glove padding. the two patients with acute symptoms required vasodilator (papaverine chloride) infusion, followed by intravenous heparin and dextran. all baseball catchers returned to their sport with dissipation of symptoms.
comparison of epidurally administered sufentanil, morphine, and sufentanil-morphine combination for postoperative analgesia. postoperative analgesia provided by epidurally administered sufentanil and/or morphine was evaluated in 45 patients recovering from major gynecologic surgery. at the first complaint of pain in the postanesthesia care unit, patients received a single epidural bolus of 30 micrograms sufentanil (group a), 5 mg morphine (group b), or 30 micrograms sufentanil plus 3 mg morphine (group c) in a randomized blinded fashion. analgesic efficacy was assessed throughout the 24-h study period with 10-cm visual analog scales. the need for additional postoperative analgesia (patient-controlled analgesia, 1 mg of morphine every 6 min as necessary) and the incidence of adverse effects were also assessed. patients receiving sufentanil (groups a and c) had significantly faster onset of analgesia than did patients given morphine alone (group b, p less than 0.05). group b subjects experienced the longest duration of analgesia (b vs a and c, p less than 0.05) and required significantly less patient-controlled analgesia (morphine) than patients in group a (p less than 0.05). no patient developed clinically significant respiratory depression or excessive sedation, and there were no intergroup differences in incidence of pruritus or nausea (p value not significant). the data indicate that a mixture of sufentanil and morphine provides either a more rapid onset of epidural analgesia or reduced patient-controlled analgesia narcotic requirement than respective doses of each agent administered alone.
isolated ventral pancreatitis in a patient with pancreas divisum. a previously healthy 22-yr-old woman was found to have chronic pancreatitis restricted to the ventral pancreas in association with pancreas divisum. when conservative treatment failed, sphincteroplasty of both papillae was performed with good results. this well-documented case represents a clear exception to the commonly held concept that obstruction of the dorsal duct is the essential pathogenic factor in the development of pancreatitis associated with pancreas divisum. the importance of visualizing both the dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts to direct therapy for patients with idiopathic pancreatitis is discussed. theories of the pathogenesis of concomitant pancreatitis and pancreas divisum are reviewed.
surgical strategy in thyroid disease. over the past 8 years, 311 patients have undergone surgical treatment by the senior authors for thyroid disease. over 80% of the cases were performed by the head and neck surgical service at olive view county hospital, sylmar, calif, with the remainder performed at ucla-affiliated institutions. this service is an important source of thyroid surgical training for ucla head and neck residents who rotate through this major affiliate. the purpose of this communication is to review our experience with these cases; to describe our overall surgical strategy; and to detail the specifics of our surgical procedure, which we have developed to safely train residents in the treatment of these challenging cases. this article deals with the specific problems of preservation of the recurrent nerve, the parathyroid glands, and the techniques for reimplantation of injured parathyroid glands; the management of larger, substernal thyroid glands; and our techniques for partial thyroid surgery. in addition, the difficult decisions in the management of thyroid cancer, such as completion thyroidectomy; the management of lymph node mestastases; and how tracheal, esophageal, or laryngeal invasion should be managed are discussed. an initial section describing the general preoperative examination of these patients is also included, so that the proper surgical strategy can be developed prior to entering the operating room.
bronchial hyperreactivity in patients with mitral valve disease. to elicit the mechanism of bronchial hyperreactivity (bhr) in chronic heart failure (chf), a methacholine inhalation test, pulmonary function test, and cardiac catheterization were performed in 19 patients with mitral valve disease (mvd), and the change of severity of bhr before and after mitral valve replacement (mvr) was also examined in seven of 19 patients with mvd. sixteen of 19 patients with mvd showed significant increase in respiratory resistance in methacholine inhalation test, while all normal subjects did not. the maximal expiratory flow at 25 percent of vital capacity (vmax25), a parameter of small airway disease, correlated significantly with log cumulative dose producing a 35 percent decrease in respiratory conductance (pd35grs) (r = 0.536) and the duration of symptoms (r = -0.682). there was a significant correlation between log pd35grs and mean pulmonary artery wedge pressure (r = -0.466). after mvr, log pd35grs was significantly improved in all seven operated-on patients, although six patients retained bhr. we conclude that patients with long-term mvd have marked bhr and that bhr in long-term mvd is related to peripheral airway narrowing with organic remodeling, which was not ameliorated with mvr procedure, in addition to pulmonary congestion.
cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with vascular dementia of the binswanger type. we performed clinical and neuroradiologic studies, including positron emission tomography, in five patients with vascular dementia of the binswanger type. the clinical features of these cases consisted of slowly progressive dementia, together with vascular risk factors such as hypertension and often a history of minor stroke, and characteristic white matter lesions on brain computed tomograms or magnetic resonance images. digital subtraction angiography of the cervical and intracranial arteries demonstrated no occlusive lesion in any patient. both cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen were markedly reduced in the white matter (54-77% of control values), and both were decreased in the parietal (73% of control), frontal (74-80%), and temporal (74-83%) cortices, where no abnormalities were detected by brain computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. we conclude that vascular dementia of the binswanger type may be caused by disconnection between the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures due to ischemic damage in the white matter.
trends in primary breast cancer management. where are we going? the treatment of cancer during any period has been based not on the whim of a clinician but on the therapeutic consequences of the dominant biologic model of the disease. until the 1960s, the dominant model of breast cancer was of a disease that spread centrifugally along anatomic pathways, with time being the only determinant of prognosis. an alternative model, that of biologic determinism, posits that the outcomes of treatment are determined by the extent of microscopic dissemination that occurred before the tumor became detectable. this model, too, has flaws, and the author suggests that it is time for a kuhnian paradigm shift. breast cancer exhibits a heterogeneity of phenotypes resulting from one or perhaps two mutations. the multiple prognostic variables may be epiphenomena, expressing different degrees of amplification of a limited domain of the genome.
precipitated abstinence in orally dosed benzodiazepine-dependent dogs. the ability of graded doses of flumazenil (2, 6, 18, 36 and 72 mg/kg) and a lactose placebo to precipitate abstinence was studied in dogs treated chronically with diazepam, nordiazepam, flunitrazepam, alprazolam, oxazepam, halazepam and lorazepam by oral dosing. a scale comprised of 10 precipitated abstinence signs, the benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale, was developed, which yielded linear flumazenil log-dose response lines with significant slopes in dogs dependent on diazepam, nordiazepam and flunitrazepam. the effects of 18, 36 and 72 mg/kg of flumazenil in otherwise drug naive dogs were studied. in naive dogs, the most prominent effect of flumazenil was to reduce activity. all benzodiazepines studied produced dependence that was characterized by signs of precipitated abstinence; however, the intensity and quality of abstinence varied from one benzodiazepine to another. precipitated abstinence in dogs treated chronically with diazepam and flunitrazepam was characterized by a dose-related increase in clonic convulsions and benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale scores. this pattern differed from that seen in nordiazepam- and alprazolam-dependent dogs, which showed a comparable flumazenil dose-related increase in clonic convulsion but only a modest increase in benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale scores. oxazepam and lorazepam produced dependence that was less intense than that seen with the other benzodiazepines. plasma levels of the benzodiazepines and their metabolites were repeatedly determined after single doses and during addiction cycles. nordiazepam accumulated in diazepam- and nordiazepam-dependent dogs and alpha-oh alprazolam accumulated in alprazolam-dependent dogs. other drugs and metabolites did not. these observations suggest that: 1) different benzodiazepines or their metabolites produce different types of physical dependence, suggesting that they or their metabolites have different mechanisms and sites of action; 2) plasma cumulation of the benzodiazepines or their active metabolites is an important factor in the genesis of physical dependence; and 3) metabolism of benzodiazepines plays an important role in their dependence-producing capacity, and because of differences in the way species metabolize benzodiazepines, the type of dependence produced in different species may differ.
"spontaneous sump syndrome": successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy. "sump syndrome" is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal, nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile, gastrointestinal contents, and debris accumulate. we report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula, and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses. the patient's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics. this case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously, that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation, and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy.
gastric lesions secondary to long-distance running. gastrointestinal disorders have been reported during long-distance running. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prolonged exercise on the upper digestive tract. seven subjects were submitted to a standard endoscopic examination of the upper digestive tract before and after long-distance running (range 18-50 km). mucosal biopsy specimens were taken during all endoscopies. after running, all runners had histologically pathological features in the stomach. vascular lesions were present in the chorion in six subjects after running, with the intensity of the lesions ranging from congestion to hemorrhage. postexercise histological examination also showed a decrease in mucosal secretion. these lesions secondary to prolonged exercise indicate the presence of hemodynamic perturbations in the upper digestive tract.
misdiagnosis in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. to confirm our impression that a high percentage of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are initially misdiagnosed, we reviewed records of 33 patients with a definitive diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis seen over 10 years. fourteen patients (43%) were initially misdiagnosed. mean time to correct diagnosis was significantly greater for the misdiagnosed group (16.0 +/- 9.3 months) than for the rest of the patients (7.6 +/- 4.1 months). two of three patients with an initial symptom of dyspnea were misdiagnosed. three patients underwent laminectomies because of misdiagnosis. age, stage of disease, and unusual presenting symptoms were not identified as causes of misdiagnosis. most likely causes were physicians' failure to consider the diagnosis and lack of familiarity with the common clinical presentations of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. earlier diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis may help prevent medical mismanagement and may benefit patients both medically and psychologically.
reversed lateralization of cognitive functions in right handers. exceptions to classical aphasiology. most current and past research on the cerebral organization of cognitive functions has presupposed certain specialized hemisphere operations. at least for right handers, language and praxis are to be organized in the left hemisphere, while affective prosody, configurational spatial capacity, and global attention are lateralized in the right hemisphere. deviations from these presuppositions, as in crossed aphasics and perhaps left handers, are generally considered to be 'exceptions' and either to disprove the rules or to be irrelevant to the rule. we report 4 very 'exceptional' cases, right handers with almost entirely reversed lateralization of functions. analysis of the intrahemispheric relationships between functions suggests that there may be a specific neurobiology to the interrelationships between and among cognitive functions, handedness, and the intrahemisphere localization of the function.
management of recurrent malignant pleural effusion in the united kingdom: survey of clinical practice. malignant pleural effusions are often symptomatic and tend to recur after simple aspiration. pleurodesis may prevent recurrence of the effusion; many agents and techniques have been described. a questionnaire was sent to 448 clinicians in the united kingdom to determine how pleurodesis is performed in practice. there was a 56% overall response, with replies from 101 respiratory physicians, 88 general physicians, 29 thoracic surgeons, and 35 general surgeons. general surgeons saw few cases of malignant pleural effusion and rarely performed pleurodesis. a patient with recurrent malignant pleural effusion would usually be managed with pleurodesis by 76 (76%) respiratory physicians, 26 (30%) general physicians, and 23 (81%) thoracic surgeons; a further 29 (33%) general physicians would refer such patients to another specialist. most medical pleurodesis were performed by junior staff, whereas consultant thoracic surgeons were more likely to be concerned with the procedure. all the thoracic surgeons used an intercostal tube drain, usually with suction. an intercostal tube drain was used routinely by only 54 (54%) of the respiratory physicians and 28 (32%) general physicians. thoracic surgeons preferred talc for pleurodesis whereas physicians most commonly used tetracycline. the variety of methods in use supports the need for randomised, controlled studies to determine the most effective technique of pleurodesis.
influence of prosthetic design on durability of the liotta porcine valve in the mitral position. from march 1979 to december 1984, the liotta low-profile porcine bioprosthesis was employed for mitral valve replacement in 71 patients to avoid potential left ventricle-prosthesis mismatch occasionally observed with the standard, high-profile, hancock porcine xenograft. follow-up of 61 operative survivors showed at 10 years an actuarial survival of 67% +/- 7%, freedom from thromboemboli of 96% +/- 2%, freedom from structural deterioration of 63% +/- 11% and freedom from all liotta bioprosthesis-related complications of 53% +/- 10%. complications related to excessive protrusion of the stent into the left ventricular cavity were eliminated with the liotta bioprosthesis; the peculiar stent configuration, however, was responsible for an increased rate of structural deterioration requiring reoperation in 10 patients (2.8% +/- 0.9%/patient-year) at a mean interval of 76 +/- 18 months after mitral valve replacement (range, 45 to 106 months). common findings in all explants were cusp prolapse, cusp tears, and commissural rupture related to various degrees of tissue calcification, constantly leading to severe prosthetic incompetence. as also shown experimentally, such structural changes have been attributed to increased systolic stresses on the closed cusps, favored by excessive reduction of the stent height. our experience shows that the liotta bioprosthesis used for mitral valve replacement does not provide any clear-cut advantage over standard porcine bioprostheses and that its long-term durability appears affected by the unique prosthetic design.
fetal death due to nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide poisoning. fetal death due to acute carbon monoxide poisoning is rarely reported in the medical literature. of the eight cases found in literature review, only one documented the fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentration. this paper reports a fetal death due to accidental nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide intoxication in which both maternal and fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentrations were obtained. the corrected carboxyhemoglobin concentration was 61% at the time of death in utero, while the maternal carboxyhemoglobin was measured at 7% after one hour of supplemental oxygen. the authors review the mechanisms of fetal death and emphasize the different carbon monoxide kinetics in the fetal circulation.
renal angioplasty for renovascular disease: a reappraisal. the exact role of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta) for the treatment of renal artery stenoses (ras) remains unclear. therefore we analysed the outcome of unselected renal artery pta in 30 subjects with angiographically proven unilateral ras (group i) compared with that of 19 who had ras but were treated medically (group ii) and 21 who had essential hypertension but who underwent angiography (group iii). good blood pressure control was achieved in all three groups but those who underwent pta had a small but significant fall in their requirement for antihypertensive medications (p less than 0.05). however, no patient was "cured" of hypertension and blood pressure was able to be controlled in both group ii and group iii subjects without an increase in their number of antihypertensives. serum creatinine did not improve significantly during follow-up in those who underwent pta and was not different from that of group ii subjects at follow-up. although unselected renal artery pta for ras may make blood pressure control easier it does not delay or prevent further deterioration in renal function and should not be used for this purpose.
management of aortobronchial fistula with graft replacement and omentopexy. massive hemoptysis due to a recurrent aortobronchial fistula after repair of a thoracic aortic aneurysm developed in a 64-year-old woman. the infected aortic tissue was resected and replaced with an in situ dacron graft covered by omentum. the patient is alive and well 15 months later.
multiple granular cell tumors associated with giant speckled lentiginous nevus and nevus flammeus in a child. we describe an 11-year-old girl in whom multiple cutaneous granular cell tumors were associated with a giant speckled lentiginous nevus and an extensive nevus flammeus. an association between granular cell tumors and pigmented skin lesions has been reported twice previously and supports a neural origin for these tumors. an abnormality of neural crest development is proposed to explain the coexistence of three uncommon and unusually extensive cutaneous disorders in this patient. this case may represent a further variant of phakomatosis pigmentovascularis.
platelet-activating factor: evidence against a role in hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction. the mechanism of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (hpv) remains unknown. the platelet-activating factor (paf) antagonist web 2086 attenuated hpv in the isolated lung model of the rat. we evaluated the effect of web 2086 on hpv in an intact animal. pigs were anesthetized, mechanically ventilated, and had their hemodynamic variables monitored with a pulmonary artery catheter and arterial line. cardiac output was measured by thermodilution. initial studies determined that paf (0.03 to 1.0 micrograms) injected iv dose-dependently increased pulmonary vascular resistance (pvr) with a 262 +/- 58% increase in pvr 5 min after a dose of 1.0 microgram. web 2086 (25 mg/kg iv) completely blocked the increase in pvr caused by iv paf. additionally, indomethacin (2 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg.h iv) treatment of the animals attenuated the paf-induced increase in pvr. to evaluate the effect of web 2086 on hpv, animals were alternately ventilated with 21% oxygen and 10-min periods of 10% oxygen to induce hpv. after three initial control episodes of hypoxic ventilation, web 2086 (25 mg/kg) was injected iv and two more episodes of ventilation with 10% oxygen were given. during the three control hpv episodes the increases in pvr were 80 +/- 10%, 108 +/- 10%, and 107 +/- 22% (n = 5). after web 2086, the increase in pvr during two episodes of hypoxia were 96 +/- 28% and 99 +/- 19%, respectively, which was not significantly different from the control response to hypoxia. we conclude that iv paf dose dependently increases pvr in pigs, and can be blocked by web 2086, that its effect is partially mediated through cyclooxygenase products, and that paf does not appear to mediate hpv in this species.
lovastatin decreases coenzyme q levels in humans. lovastatin is clinically used to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia and successfully lowers cholesterol levels. the mechanism of action of lovastatin is inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol from acetyl-coa. inhibition of this enzyme could also inhibit the intrinsic biosynthesis of coenzyme q10 (coq10), but there have not been definitive data on whether lovastatin reduces levels of coq10 as it does cholesterol. the clinical use of lovastatin is to reduce a risk of cardiac disease, and if lovastatin were to reduce levels of coq10, this reduction would constitute a new risk of cardiac disease, since it is established that coq10 is indispensable for cardiac function. we have conducted three related protocols to determine whether lovastatin does indeed inhibit the biosynthesis of coq10. one protocol was done on rats, and is reported in the preceding paper [willis, r. a., folkers, k., tucker, j. l., ye, c.-q., xia, l.-j. & tamagawa, h. (1990) proc. natl. acad. sci. usa 87, 8928-8930]. the other two protocols are reported here. one involved patients in a hospital, and the other involved a volunteer who permitted extraordinary monitoring of coq10 and cholesterol levels and cardiac function. all data from the three protocols revealed that lovastatin does indeed lower levels of coq10. the five hospitalized patients, 43-72 years old, revealed increased cardiac disease from lovastatin, which was life-threatening for patients having class iv cardiomyopathy before lovastatin or after taking lovastatin. oral administration of coq10 increased blood levels of coq10 and was generally accompanied by an improvement in cardiac function. although a successful drug, lovastatin does have side effects, particularly including liver dysfunction, which presumably can be caused by the lovastatin-induced deficiency of coq10.
a randomized controlled trial of allopurinol in coronary bypass surgery. a plethora of experimental evidence indicates that allopurinol reduces the formation of cytotoxic free radicals during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of allopurinol on cardiac performance and early mortality after coronary bypass surgery. allopurinol (n = 89) or placebo (n = 80) was administered to 169 patients before surgery. randomization produced groups evenly matched for surgical risk factors. hospital mortality rate in the placebo group was 14 of 80 (18%) in the allopurinol group 4 of 89 (4%), p = 0.014. cardiac performance, scored by cardiac index and the need for ionotropic or mechanical support, was significantly better in the allopurinol group. more nonfatal complications occurred in the allopurinol group. when either a complication or death is termed an event, the proportion of events was equal in the two groups. no side effects were identified. we now administer allopurinol to all patients who are undergoing bypass surgery unless specifically contraindicated.
left ventricular diastolic function in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction due to coronary artery disease and effect of nicardipine. to assess the effect of nicardipine on left ventricular (lv) diastolic function independent of concurrent effects on loading conditions in patients with lv systolic dysfunction due to coronary artery disease, equihypotensive doses of intravenous nitroprusside and nicardipine were administered to 12 patients with congestive heart failure due to previous myocardial infarction (lv ejection fraction less than 0.40). lv micromanometer pressure and simultaneous radionuclide volume were obtained during a baseline period, during nitroprusside infusion, during a second baseline period and during nicardipine infusion. mean systemic arterial pressure decreased an average of 21 mm hg with nitroprusside and 19 mm hg with nicardipine. a greater decrease in lv end-diastolic pressure was observed with nitroprusside (29 +/- 2 to 15 +/- 2 mm hg, p less than 0.01) than with nicardipine (29 +/- 2 to 25 +/- 3 mm hg, p less than 0.05). there was a decrease in the time constant of relaxation during nitroprusside but not during nicardipine infusion. there was enough overlap in lv volumes in the baseline and nitroprusside periods to compare diastolic pressure-volume relations over a common range of volumes in 4 patients, and enough overlap in the baseline and nicardipine periods in 11 patients. the relation was shifted downward in 3 of 4 patients taking nitroprusside and in 6 of 11 patients taking nicardipine. the relation between end-diastolic pressure and volume was not shifted with nicardipine.
progress of patients with pulmonary atresia after systemic to pulmonary arterial shunts. between february 1980 and june 1987, 42 shunts were placed in 39 infants with pulmonary atresia: 33 were modified blalock-taussig shunts with polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe) and 9 were classic blalock-taussig shunts. there were four hospital deaths not related to the shunts. the remaining 35 patients were followed up for 1.6 months to 6.3 years (mean, 24.7 +/- 18 months). repeat cineangiocardiographic studies revealed stenosis or distortion of the pulmonary arteries related to the site of the shunt in 11/22 patients (50%) with ptfe shunts and in 1/6 (17%) with classic blalock-taussig shunts; the stenosis was severe in only 1 patient. mean increase in the pulmonary arterial index in the group with classic blalock-taussig shunts was 117 +/- 52 mm2/m2 (not significant) and in the group with ptfe shunts, 158 +/- 21 mm2/m2 (p less than 0.001). late shunt occlusion occurred in 1 patient 23 months postoperatively. thereafter, shunt patency rate remained at 94% +/- 6%. at the end of 1 year 81% +/- 7% of patients were judged to have adequate palliation, but between 2 and 3 years, only 60% +/- 10%. univariate analysis showed that after 2 years the ranking order for successful palliation was classic blalock-taussig, 5-mm ptfe, and 4-mm ptfe shunts, but differences did not achieve statistical significance.
prognosticating study for cervical myelopathy using evoked spinal cord potentials. one hundred twenty-three cases of cervical spondylotic and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) myelopathy cases with long tract signs subjected to surgical treatment were studied to identify the most important factors having an influence on postoperative outcome using evoked spinal cord potentials (escp). disappearance and positive wave changes of these potentials at the level of responsible lesions and slow conduction velocity under 40 m indicated an unsatisfactory outcome. localized-lesion cases diagnosed by escps had excellent results, significantly more so than extensive-lesion cases, regardless of operative methods. in 123 cases, 76% were found to have localized lesions, while the other 24% showed extensive lesions. concerning the difference between csm and opll, 54% of opll and only 14% of csm demonstrated extensive lesions.
biohistory of slavery and blood pressure differences in blacks today. a hypothesis. genetic factors are known to play an important role in the variations in blood pressure levels. however, genetic factors that explain the higher average blood pressure levels of western hemisphere blacks when compared with african blacks have not been seriously considered. because the genetic makeup of a population is largely determined by biological and ecological forces in the past, an examination of the biohistory of blacks, specifically the slavery era, was conducted. an overview of the salient findings of that investigation is included in this article. the published historical evidence on the transatlantic slave trade and new world slavery (from the 16th century to the 19th century) reveals that conditions existed for "natural selection," and therefore, genetic changes were virtually inevitable in the slave populations. during this period of history, mortality was extremely high, and fertility (or reproductive success) was so low among the survivors that most plantation societies in the western hemisphere depended on a constant importation of captives (over 12 million) from africa for the viability of the plantation communities. because the major causes of death were salt-depletive diseases such as diarrhea, fevers, and vomiting, it is argued that individuals with an enhanced genetic-based ability to conserve salt had a distinct survival advantage over others and were, therefore, more likely to bequeath their genotype to subsequent generations of western hemisphere blacks. thus, it is predicted that blacks in the americas have a greater frequency of individuals with an enhanced genetic-based ability to conserve salt than african blacks.
arterial oxygen desaturation during gastrointestinal endoscopy this prospective study evaluated the incidence and severity of arterial oxygen desaturation during gastrointestinal endoscopy. following pulmonary function testing, 115 male patients underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy (egd), colonoscopy, or colonoscopy followed by egd, with continuous recording of arterial oxygen saturation (sao2). most patients (80/115, 70%) showed arterial oxygen desaturation (greater than 4% decrease from baseline sao2); severe arterial oxygen desaturation (sao2 less than or equal to 85%) reflecting hypoxemia (pao2 less than or equal to 50 mm hg) was noted in one-third of patients overall (37/115, 32%). severe arterial oxygen desaturation occurred in 9/62 egd patients (15%), 23/46 colonoscopy patients (50%), and 4/7 patients having colonoscopy followed by egd (57%). arterial oxygen desaturation occurs frequently during gastrointestinal endoscopy and is often severe. these data support the concept that continuous monitoring of sao2 should be standard procedure during all gastrointestinal endoscopic procedures.
epirubicin cardiotoxicity: a study of 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. the cardiotoxicity of epirubicin (epi) was evaluated clinically, radiologically, with ecg, and with multiple ecg-gated radionuclide determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) during rest in 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. the epi doses were 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks or 45 mg/m2 plus vindesine 3 mg/m2 on the same schedule. the median cumulative dose of epi was 500 mg/m2 (range, 47 to 1,563). eight of the 135 patients developed congestive heart failure (chf). of 67 patients treated with epi less than 500 mg/m2, none developed chf. among 48 patients treated with doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2, one had chf (2%; 95% confidence limits, 0.1 to 11.1). among 20 patients who received epi from 1,000 to 1,563 mg/m2, seven developed chf (35%; 95% confidence limits, 15.4 to 59.2). four patients died due to cardiotoxicity. the risk of epi cardiotoxicity at the present schedule is considerable at doses above 1,000 mg/m2. at doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 the risk of chf decreases, and at doses below 500 mg/m2, it is negligible. for all patients, the prevalence of chf was 6% and the sensitivity of lvef high (95%), mainly due to the low incidence of chf. among the 20 patients who received epi at more than 1,000 mg/m2, the prevalence of chf was 35% and the sensitivity only 64%. the specificity was maximally 62%. our results suggest that lvef is of no value as a predictor for chf.
post-traumatic bile fistulae. bile leakage after liver injury has been reported to be a complication associated with significant mortality. in a prospective study of 306 patients with liver injuries 13 (4%) developed a bile leak. there appear to be two groups of patients, those with a major bile duct injury (three patients) and those with a more peripheral injury (ten patients). bile leaks may present either as bile peritonitis (six patients) or as a bile leak through a drain site (seven patients). all but one bile leak closed spontaneously at a median of 33 days (range, 3-110 days). there was no mortality but patients incurred a median of four complications each (range, 1-5). this may reflect the severity of the initial injury rather than the bile leak. respiratory failure and/or infection and sepsis were the most common complications whilst abnormalities of liver function, although common, were seldom of clinical significance.
surgeons, surgery, and immunomodulation. with the definition over the past 15 years of the altered immune state of surgical patients as a result of disease itself and surgical therapy, there have been multiple approaches to the modulation of immune status in experimental or clinical situations, but with conflicting or unhelpful results. the variable that has never been assessed is the significance of the surgeon as an immunomodulator. the expediency and the quality of the surgical act in a variety of surgical diseases have a positive effect on the immune system. indeed, the data indicate that correction of shock, drainage of infection, excision or drainage of necrotic material, restoration of body composition, and solid basic care all have a positive influence on patients' immune responses. an immunomodulator might get credit if the role of surgical care is not properly assessed. a framework for the study of immunomodulators with the integration of clinical behavior is outlined.
indirect revascularization of the lower extremity by means of microvascular free-muscle flap--a preliminary report. we describe the treatment of a patient with end-stage peripheral vascular disease and ischemic ulceration of the lower extremity in whom an obliteration of the distal arterial bed precluded conventional arterial reconstruction. a nonhealing dorsal foot ulcer was debrided, and soft tissue reconstruction was accomplished by the free microsurgical transfer of a muscle flap to the distal lower extremity. arterial inflow to this free flap was provided by a contralateral reversed saphenous vein graft from the proximal arterial tree of the leg. this procedure resulted in a healed wound, stable coverage, and limb salvage. the patient also noted complete relief of rest pain and improvement in his claudication symptoms. a follow-up arteriogram was done 2 months after surgery. contrast injection directly into the artery of this flap showed new blood vessel growth from the muscle flap into the foot with anastomoses of these "new vessels" to the patient's native circulation. this experience suggests that limb salvage may be possible by the free microvascular transplantation of a muscle flap onto the limb in selected patients whose limbs are deemed "nonreconstructible.".
deletion of chromosome 4: 46,xy, del(4) (q31.3) after gamete intrafallopian transfer and in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. it seems that assisted reproduction technology does not increase the rate of chromosome abnormalities, and up to now, a few cases have been reported. the case we describe here is the first one of monosomy 4q31 in a full-term liveborn after a combined gift-ivf procedure. once more, this case raises the question of whether pregnancies resulting from ivf should be monitored for chromosome abnormalities or not.
5-aminosalicylic acid is a potent inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta production in organ culture of colonic biopsy specimens from patients with inflammatory bowel disease. interleukin 1 beta in biopsy specimens from inflamed colonic mucosa of patients with active inflammatory bowel disease was studied. compared with normal colonic mucosal biopsy specimens, a significantly greater amount of interleukin 1 beta was present in rectal mucosa before (median (range) 4.3 (2.0-11.8) v 119.2 (30.1-286.8) pg/mg; p less than 0.01) and produced during organ culture (39.1 (9.4-106.8) v 97.6 (28.2-991.6) pg/mg; p less than 0.01). values of interleukin 1 beta after culture correlated with concentrations of thromboxane b2. organ culture of inflamed biopsy specimens in the presence of 5 aminosalicylic acid and dexamethasone reduced the amount of interleukin 1 beta detected. at the doses studied, 5 aminosalicylic acid also reduced the amount of leukotriene b4 detected after culture.
current management of varicoceles. in spite of all that has been written about the varicocele, it is still not clear who will benefit from occlusion of the spermatic vein or why improvement in semen takes place in some patients but not in others. because fertility is usually assessed in the framework of a couple who are trying to establish a pregnancy, it is important to evaluate both partners before making any recommendations regarding therapy. if the man is found to have a varicocele and semen analyses that indicate deficits in either the quantity or quality of the sperm, surgical ligation or transvenous occlusion should be considered as one appropriate form of therapy. varicocele ligation and embolotherapy both can be performed as an outpatient procedure with minimal morbidity and equal effectiveness regarding pregnancy outcome. the cost, if the procedures are done in an outpatient facility, should be approximately equal. the obvious benefits of the percutaneous technique are a slightly lower recurrence rate and a more rapid return to full physical activity. the surgical procedure described by marmar and associates appears to have a similar rate of recurrence and short postoperative period of recovery. greater experience by more urologists using this technique needs to be gained to compare it adequately with the other methods described. varicocele ligation by the inguinal or retroperitoneal routes is familiar to most urologists and does not require the operating microscope or other special instruments. with greater understanding of the venous anatomy and with careful dissection, the persistence and recurrence rate can be acceptably low and the postoperative recovery relatively rapid and smooth.
evaluation of 13c-urea breath test in the detection of helicobacter pylori and in monitoring the effect of tripotassium dicitratobismuthate in non-ulcer dyspepsia sixty nine patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia have been studied with endoscopy, biopsy, quick urease (clo) test, helicobacter pylori culture, and the 13c-urea breath test before and after treatment with tripotassium dicitratobismuthane (denol) two tablets twice daily for four weeks. symptoms of non-ulcer dyspepsia were recorded using a standard questionnaire. using h pylori culture as the gold standard, the sensitivity of the 13c-urea breath test was 90%, the specificity 98.6%, and the accuracy 94.8% with a positive predictive value of 98.2% and a negative predictive value of 92.5%. conversion rate from h pylori positive to negative status after treatment with tripotassium dicitratobismuthate was 17.9%. symptoms of non-ulcer dyspepsia improved appreciably after treatment irrespective of h pylori status. the 13c-urea breath test is an accurate research tool suitable for serial testing and population surveys.
pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. we describe the cases of three women with pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the illness was characterized by elevated peripheral blood eosinophil counts, myalgias, fatigue, and dyspnea. two of three patients had bilateral infiltrates on chest roentgenograms. all three had markedly decreased carbon monoxide diffusing capacities and pulmonary hypertension. high-dose prednisone therapy provided only partial resolution of the pulmonary symptoms. open lung biopsy specimens showed chronic interstitial and perivascular infiltrates in two of the patients and moderate fibrointimal hyperplasia of pulmonary vasculature in the third. high-dose prednisone therapy prior to the biopsies may have modified the original histologic features.
nevus flammeus. discordance in monozygotic twins. nevus flammeus has been described as an inherited vascular anomaly. we report two cases of nevus flammeus, each appearing in one of two monozygotic twins. this finding supports the idea that nevus flammeus results from embryologic mishap rather than genetic transmission.
late results of the left subcostal approach for automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation. a left subcostal surgical approach was used to implant an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (aicd) in 48 patients with a history of nonfatal cardiac arrest or documented ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation. electrophysiologic studies before surgery yielded induction of monomorphic or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in 40 patients, whereas 8 were noninducible. mean (+/- standard deviation) age was 58 +/- 12 years. mean ejection fraction was 33 +/- 16%. thirty patients (63%) had documented coronary artery disease; 14 patients (29%) had previous coronary bypass surgery. the mean intraoperative defibrillation threshold was 13.8 +/- 6.6 j. in 6 patients, an adjunctive right minithoracotomy was used to position 1 patch over the right atrium and thus optimize the defibrillation threshold. patients with prior exposure to amiodarone and previous coronary bypass surgery had higher defibrillation thresholds at implantation. two perioperative deaths occurred. there were no infections. long-term follow-up yielded a 1- and 5-year survival of 0.88 and 0.58, respectively, and a freedom from sudden cardiac death of 1.0 and 0.97, respectively. the nonthoracotomy, left subcostal surgical approach is safe and effective, provides adequate defibrillation thresholds in most patients, and yields long-term survival comparable to other implantation techniques.
cytotoxic effects of high energy shock waves in different in vitro models: influence of the experimental set-up. high energy shock waves (electromagnetically generated, siemens lithostar) were studied for their effects in vitro on different (tumor) cell types. cells were exposed to the shock waves as a single cell suspension or as a cell pellet on the bottom of a test tube. in both cases, a dose dependent direct cytotoxicity, established by trypan blue dye exclusion, was observed after treatment with 1000 or 2000 shock waves. also, the antiproliferative capacity as determined by clonogenic potential (double layer soft agar) and growth rate (plastic) were affected in this way. however, comparing the results after treatment in suspension or pellet, a discrepancy was evident. the cell lines showed a different susceptibility in pellet vs. suspension. also the differential sensitivity of the cell types varied in these two treatment models. furthermore the outcome depended on the cell concentration; direct cytotoxicity in a cell suspension was more pronounced at higher cell concentrations, while in a pellet this was increased by decreasing the number of cells. finally, no shock wave induced cytotoxicity could be seen after fixation of cells in gelatine or by placing the pellet on a bottom layer of gelatine. pressure measurements revealed no adequate explanation for this phenomenon. these results indicate that in vitro effects depend on the way cells are exposed to the shock waves and can be greatly influenced by changing the conditions of the microenvironment. therefore, precise descriptions of the experimental set-up and careful interpretations of their outcome are obligatory.
initial failure of surgical exploration in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. to determine the causes of failures of cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism, we reviewed 892 patients operated on by one surgeon from 1953 to 1990. twenty-seven patients (3%) remained hypercalcemic or developed hypercalcemia within 6 months of surgery. of these, five patients had one adenoma removed initially; at reoperation, three patients had a second adenoma that was successfully removed, whereas the other two patients had hyperplasia and required subtotal parathyroidectomies. no enlarged parathyroid glands were identified in 22 patients. eventually, six patients became normocalcemic spontaneously, seven patients underwent re-exploration with a successful outcome in all but one case, two patients had ectopic hyperparathyroidism associated with carcinoma elsewhere, and seven patients refused reoperation and remain hypercalcemic. the failure rate of surgical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism can be reduced by systematically exploring all four parathyroid glands. all abnormal parathyroids should be removed with histologic verification. when no abnormal glands are found, localization studies should be performed before re-exploration.
triggers of transient myocardial ischemia: circadian variation and relation to plaque rupture and coronary thrombosis in stable coronary artery disease. the phenomenon of transient myocardial ischemia is common in patients with stable coronary disease and appears to be due both to increases in myocardial demand and to episodic coronary vasoconstriction. the circadian variation of transient ischemic episodes closely parallels the circadian variation of acute coronary syndromes associated with plaque rupture, such as myocardial infarction and sudden death. these concordant temporal patterns of transient ischemia, myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death probably represent independent manifestations stemming from the consequences of increased sympathetic activity.
identification of lymphotoxin and tumor necrosis factor in multiple sclerosis lesions. multiple sclerosis (ms) brain tissue, spleen, and pbmc were studied using immunocytochemistry and facs for immunoreactivity for lymphotoxin (lt) and tnf. both cytokines were identified in acute and chronic active ms lesions but were absent from chronic silent lesions. lt was associated with cd3+ lymphocytes and leu-m5+ microglia cells at the lesion edge and to a lesser extent, in adjacent white matter. tnf was associated with astrocytes in all areas of the lesion, and with foamy macrophages in the center of the active lesion. in acute lesions, immunoreactivity for tnf in endothelial cells was noted at the lesion edge. no lt or tnf reactivity was detected in alzheimer's or parkinson's disease brain tissues but was present at lower levels in central nervous system (cns) tissue from other inflammatory conditions, except for adrenoleucodystrophy which displayed high levels of lt in microglia. no increase in lt and tnf reactivity was detected in spleen and pbmc of ms patients suggesting specific reactivity within the cns. these results indicate that lt and tnf may be involved in the immunopathogenesis of ms, and can be detected in both inflammatory cells and cells endogenous to the cns.
percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients. we report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis, complicated by empyema formation. most of these patients has severe underlying disease, rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention. in all patients, the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities. six were considered inoperable. three of these remain free of biliary symptoms, respectively 22, 10, and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy. three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy. three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy. in one patient, cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops, 1 wk after catheter removal. in our opinion, percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis. it can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates, or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients.
activated protooncogenes in human lung tumors from smokers. fourteen primary human lung tumor dnas from smokers were analyzed for transforming activity by two dna transfection assays. activated protooncogenes were detected in 3 of 11 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 focus assay, whereas activated protooncogenes were detected in 11 of 13 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 cotransfection-nude mouse tumorigenicity assay. k- or nras genes activated by point mutation at codons 12 or 61 were detected in a large cell carcinoma, a squamous cell carcinoma, and 5 adenocarcinomas. an hras oncogene activated by a different mechanism was detected in an epidermoid carcinoma. one adenocarcinoma was found to contain an activated raf gene. two unidentified transforming genes were detected in a squamous cell carcinoma dna and two adenocarcinoma dnas. eight of 10 lung adenocarcinomas that had formed metastases at the time of surgery were found to contain ras oncogenes. no significant increase in metastasis was observed in the lung adenocarcinomas that contained one or more 6-kilobase ecori alleles of the lmyc gene. overall, 12 of 14 (86%) of the lung tumor dnas from smokers were found to contain activated protooncogenes. ras oncogenes appear to play a role in the development of metastases in lung adenocarcinomas.
early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in rabbit cardiac purkinje fibers recovering from ischemic-like conditions. role of acidosis. background. the mechanisms underlying repetitive activity during reperfusion of ischemic myocardium are thought to include triggered responses elicited at short pacing cycle lengths. the potential to generate repetitive responses at longer pacing cycle lengths under similar conditions, however, has not been explored. thus, the present study examined the role of cycle length on the cellular electrical changes produced during recovery from ischemic-like conditions and identified the major component precipitating nondriven, repetitive activity. methods and results. transmembrane potentials were recorded in vitro from isolated rabbit purkinje fibers exposed to hypoxia (defined as po2 less than 30 mm hg, high [k+]o, and zero glucose) plus lactic acidosis (ph 6.7) for 45 minutes and during recovery in normal tyrode's solution (ph 7.4). compared with control, action potential duration (90% repolarization) during recovery increased transiently by 40.9 +/- 11.8 and 241.0 +/- 51.1 msec at respective basic cycle lengths of 1,000 and 3,000 msec (both p less than 0.005). in 81% of preparations, action potential prolongation was accompanied by early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity generated from low (positive to -40 mv) or high (negative to -40 mv) membrane potentials. in 62% of experiments, brief periods of abnormal automaticity also occurred. triggered responses were 1) unaffected by 1 microm ryanodine, 2) abolished by pacing at short basic cycle lengths or by exposing tissues to 2.5 micrograms/ml lidocaine, and 3) more easily induced at long basic cycle lengths or by superfusing 2.5 micrograms/ml quinidine. when tissues were conditioned with hypoxia alone (ph 7.4), action potential prolongation on recovery was comparatively small, and nondriven responses did not develop. conversely, addition of 10-20 microm amiloride to the hypoxic, acidic test solution augmented recovery-induced action potential prolongation. conclusions. we conclude that acidosis, as a component of ischemia, plus slow pacing frequencies may mediate the genesis of early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in purkinje fibers on recovery, long after extracellular ph has been restored to normal. these data may have clinical relevance to the mechanisms of reperfusion arrhythmias in the intact human heart.
thiazide diuretics and the risk of hip fracture. results from the framingham study. thiazide diuretics may preserve bone mass and prevent elderly women's osteopenic fractures, but studies have not distinguished between thiazide preparations or examined former users. we performed a case-control study looking at thiazide use and subsequent hip fracture in postmenopausal female members of the framingham study cohort. cases who had experienced a first hip fracture (n = 176) were compared with age-matched controls (n = 672). results showed a modest protective effect of any recent thiazide use (not significant). however, recent pure thiazide users experienced significant protection against fracture (adjusted odds ratio, 0.31; 95% confidence interval, 0.11 to 0.88), whereas recent users of combination drugs containing thiazides experienced no protection (adjusted odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 0.44 to 3.05). combination drugs generally contained only 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide, suggesting that the small amount of thiazide was insufficient to preserve bone mass. former thiazide users were not protected against fracture. in sum, recent pure thiazide use in women protects against hip fracture.
the flail mitral valve: echocardiographic findings by precordial and transesophageal imaging and doppler color flow mapping. to determine the echocardiographic and doppler characteristics of mitral regurgitation associated with a flail mitral valve, precordial and transesophageal echocardiography with pulsed wave and doppler color flow mapping was performed in 17 patients with a flail mitral valve leaflet due to ruptured chordae tendineae (group i) and 22 patients with moderate or severe mitral regurgitation due to other causes (group ii). echocardiograms were performed before or during cardiac surgery; cardiac catheterization was also performed in 28 patients (72%). mitral valve disease was confirmed at cardiac surgery in all patients. by echocardiography, the presence of a flail mitral valve leaflet was defined by the presence of abnormal mitral leaflet coaptation or ruptured chordae. using these criteria, transesophageal imaging showed a trend toward greater sensitivity and specificity than precordial imaging in the diagnosis of flail mitral valve leaflet. by doppler color flow mapping, a flail mitral valve leaflet was also characterized by an eccentric, peripheral, circular mitral regurgitant jet that closely adhered to the walls of the left atrium. the direction of flow of the eccentric jet in the left atrium distinguished a flail anterior from a flail posterior leaflet. by transesophageal echocardiography with doppler color flow mapping, the ratio of mitral regurgitant jet arc length to radius of curvature was significantly higher in group i than group ii patients (5.0 +/- 2.3 versus 0.7 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.001); all of the group i patients and none of the group ii patients had a ratio greater than 2.5.
advanced assessment of the abdomen and gastrointestinal problems. there are many unique physical assessment findings that are associated with specific gastrointestinal disorders. the detection of these findings enables the nurse to manage gastrointestinal emergencies on the patient unit in a timely fashion, preventing deterioration and maintaining the safety of the patient. these skills build well on the traditional, detailed, and comprehensive assessments the nurse makes when using the nursing process. specific abdominal assessments include detection of signs associated with appendicitis such as rebound tenderness and mcburney's, rosvig's, and aaron's signs. the nurse must always be alert to the possibility of peritonitis and the urgency of early detection and treatment. the patient with cirrhosis of the liver presents a distinct clinical picture. there is a need for subtle evaluation of mental status to detect early signs of hepatic coma. another extra-abdominal assessment of this complication is asterixis. finally, the assessment of the patient is enhanced when the nurse is able to help identify the location of bleeding. improving abdominal and gastrointestinal system assessment leads to early detection of nursing problems and appropriate interventions.
interstitial irradiation and hyperthermia for the treatment of recurrent malignant brain tumors. between june 1987 and june 1989, 29 recurrent malignant gliomas or recurrent solitary brain metastases in 28 patients were treated in a phase i study of interstitial irradiation and hyperthermia. patient age ranged from 18 to 65 years, and the karnofsky performance status scores ranged from 40 to 90%. there were 13 glioblastomas, 10 anaplastic astrocytomas, 3 melanomas, and 3 adenocarcinomas. catheters were implanted stereotactically after computed tomography-based preplanning. hyperthermia was administered before and after brachytherapy, using one to six 2450- or 915-mhz helical coil microwave antennas and one to three multisensor fiberoptic thermometry probes. the goal was to heat as much of the tumor as possible to 42.5 degrees c for 30 minutes. within 30 minutes after the first hyperthermia treatment, implant catheters were afterloaded with high-activity iodine-125 seeds delivering tumor doses of 32.6 to 61.0 gy. most patients had no sensation of heating. complications included seizures in 5 patients, reversible neurological changes in 9 patients, a scalp burn in 1, and infections in 3. of 28 evaluable 2-month follow-up scans, 11 showed definite improvement in the radiological appearance of the tumor, 4 were slightly improved, 7 were stable, and 6 showed tumor progression. ten patients underwent reoperation for persistent tumor and/or necrosis. eleven of 28 patients are alive 40 to 97 weeks after treatment. thirteen patients died of a brain tumor, 2 died of extracranial melanoma metastases, 1 died of new brain melanoma metastases, and 1 died of a pulmonary embolus. the median survival was 55 weeks overall. median survival has not yet been reached for the anaplastic astrocytoma subgroup. we conclude that interstitial brain hyperthermia using helical coil microwave antennas is technically feasible. the level of toxicity is acceptable, and the computed tomographic response rate is encouraging.
the dichotomous distribution of gastrinomas. our experience with 47 sporadic gastrinomas suggests that no less than 85% of these tumors are located to the right of the superior mesenteric artery. this finding is unexpected because approximately 75% of insulinomas and glucagonomas are located to the left of the superior mesenteric artery. all of our extrapancreatic gastrinomas have been located to the right. these observations prompted us to determine if other extrapancreatic gastrinomas were also predominantly located to the right side. we searched the world's literature and found 10 cases of ovarian gastrinomas and one case of a renal gastrinoma. nine of these remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas were located on the right side. this distribution of remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas is similar to our experience with peripancreatic gastrinomas. this unexpected right-sided preponderance of both remote and peripancreatic gastrinomas suggests a common origin for both.
myocardial revascularization for the third time. clinical characteristics and follow-up. twenty-five patients presenting for a third revascularization procedure were retrospectively reviewed at loyola university medical center, maywood, il. this represents 0.5 percent of the total revascularization cases over a five-year period extending from 1985 through 1989. perioperative mortality was none, and seven complications occurred in six patients. internal mammary arteries were used for revascularization in 60 percent of this group. follow-up reveals that only one patient has died secondary to an arrhythmia. all patients except one are symptomatically improved, and 18 patients remain angina free at a mean follow-up of 22.3 months. it is therefore concluded that patients are clinically improved with a third revascularization, and this procedure should be offered as an effective means of treatment.
menstrual state and exercise as determinants of spinal trabecular bone density in female athletes. objective--to study the effects of amenorrhoea and intensive back exercise on the bone mineral density of the lumbar spine in female athletes. design--cross sectional study comparing amenorrhoeic with eumenorrhoeic athletes and rowers with non-rowers. setting--the british olympic medical centre, northwick park hospital. patients--46 elite female athletes comprising 19 rowers, 18 runners, and nine dancers, of whom 25 were amenorrhoeic and 21 eumenorrhoeic. main outcome measure--trabecular bone mineral density of the lumbar spine measured by computed tomography. results--mean trabecular bone mineral density was 42 mg/cm3 (95% confidence interval 22 to 62 mg/cm3) lower in the amenorrhoeic than the eumenorrhoeic athletes; this difference was highly significant (p = 0.0002). mean trabecular bone mineral density was 21 mg/cm3 (1 to 41 mg/cm3) lower in the non-rowers than the rowers; this was also significant (p = 0.05). there was no interaction between these two effects (p = 0.28). conclusion--the effect of intensive exercise on the lumbar spine partially compensates for the adverse effect of amenorrhoea on spinal trabecular bone density.
nd:yag laser with sapphire tip combined with balloon angioplasty in peripheral arterial occlusions. long-term results in 167 patients with complete occlusion (greater than 3 cm) of the femoropopliteal artery, percutaneous transluminal laser angioplasty (ptla) was performed after an unsuccessful attempt at crossing with a guide wire and was immediately followed by balloon dilatation. an nd-yag laser and an optical fiber delivery system with a sapphire tip serving as a contact probe were used for ptla. in 132 of 167 (79%) patients, the occluded segment was successfully reopened. clinical symptoms improved in 126 of 167 (75%) patients. ptla was unsuccessful in 35 patients, and in 15 of these, injury of the vessel wall occurred. in one patient, surgical drainage of a large hematoma became necessary. all patients in whom recanalization had been achieved were randomized to receive long-term treatment with either phenprocumarol or acetylsalicylic acid (asa) plus dipyridamole to prevent rethrombosis. at 36 months of follow-up, the cumulative patency rate (cpr) was 63%. a complete reobstruction in 32 patients (24%) and a partial reobstruction in 15 patients (11%) were found angiographically. the cpr after 36 months was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients younger than 60 years of age (54%) than in patients older than 60 (68%); it was also significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients with reduced peripheral runoff (55%) due to obstructed arteries of the lower leg than in patients with unaffected runoff (73%). the cpr was 65% in recanalized segments shorter than 7 cm and was 62% in recanalized segments longer than 7 cm.
pinch-off syndrome: a complication of implantable subclavian venous access devices. implantable central venous access devices placed via the subclavian vein may become obstructed by thrombosis, impingement against a vein wall, or compression between the clavicle and first rib. the latter has been termed pinch-off syndrome (pos). eleven patients with pos were studied, including one whose catheter had fractured and one whose catheter had fragmented. they were compared with 22 matched control patients and 100 consecutive routine clinic patients. each catheter was graded: 0 = normal, 1 = abrupt change in course with no luminal narrowing, 2 = luminal narrowing, and 3 = complete catheter fracture. pos was present in most (eight of 11) cases within 3 weeks after placement. a grade 1 catheter was common (33%) among control subjects, but grades 2 and 3 were uncommon (1%). catheter fracture or fragmentation was seen in two of five cases with long-term (greater than 3 weeks) pinching (grade 2 catheter). the following conclusions were reached: grade 2 represents significant catheter compression and the potential for serious complications. grade 1 is of uncertain clinical significance, due to its high prevalence in control subjects.
lack of prognostic value of nucleolar organizer region enumeration in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. enumeration of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions is of limited use in grading transitional cell tumors of the bladder. we attempted in this article to establish whether or not such a technique would be helpful in predicting the prognosis of such tumors within rather than between grades. in the study population of 11 high-grade transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder, no correlation was found between clinical outcome and mean nucleolar organizer region count.
predictive value of lipoprotein (a) and other serum lipoproteins in the angiographic diagnosis of coronary artery disease. to determine the relation among lipids in predicting coronary artery disease (cad), 213 patients undergoing diagnostic angiography for suspected cad were prospectively studied. twenty-one patients had normal coronary arteries and 192 had cad in 1 to 3 arteries at arteriography with measurements obtained with digital calipers. lipoproteins were measured and lipoprotein (a) [lp(a)] was also assayed in a subset of 98 patients with cad. statistical analysis was performed using uni- and multivariate techniques to test the association among age, gender, systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, family history, total cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoproteins (apo) a-i and apo b, ratio of apo a-i to apo b, and ratio of hdl cholesterol to total cholesterol, to lp(a) and to cad. all factors except gender, systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus and cigarette smoking were univariate predictors of cad. multivariate predictors were, in decreasing order of significance, family history, age, hdl/total cholesterol ratio and apo b. when lp(a) was included, multivariate predictors were age, family history, apo b and lp(a), in that order. lipid parameters alone showed that the hdl/total cholesterol ratio and that lp(a) provide the best predictive tests for the detection of cad in this referral population and may ultimately become important screening tests for cad.
hageman factor-dependent kinin activation in burns and its theoretical relationship to postburn immunosuppression syndrome and infection. burn injury and intradermal injection of bradykinin or histamine cause permeability changes visualized as dye-release lesions in the skin of guinea pigs injected intravenously with evans blue dye. antihistamine pretreatment ablates the histamine but not the effect of thermal injury or bradykinin. bradykinin is generated via activation of hageman factor in a two-step reaction. steps 1 and 2 can be inhibited by corn trypsin inhibitor and soy bean trypsin inhibitors, respectively. dye-release lesions were reduced from thermal injury and bradykinin injections when these substances were injected into the skin first. angiotensin-converting enzyme deactivates bradykinin by degrading it. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor neutralizes angiotensin-converting enzyme. dye-release lesions from both thermal injury and bradykinin injection were enhanced because of continued bradykinin build-up when these treatments were preceded by subcutaneous injections of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. thus bradykinin is generated in thermal injury via the hageman factor-dependent pathway. hageman factor sits at the apex of a series of interrelated cascade systems, all of which impinge on the animal's immune status. uncontrolled hagemen factor activation in thermal injury may be the link among all the events collectively known as the "post thermal injury immunosuppression syndrome.".
excipients in valproic acid syrup may cause diarrhea: a case report. a 5-year-old child receiving valproic acid syrup for seizure control developed diarrhea probably from the excipient ingredients. each 5 ml of valproic acid syrup contains sucrose 3 g, glycerin 0.75 g, and sorbitol 0.75 g, providing daily amounts of 36, 9, and 9 g of sucrose, glycerin, and sorbitol, respectively. the diarrhea resolved when the child was switched to another valproic acid product. clinicians should be aware of potential problems that may occur from excipient ingredients in pharmaceutical products when evaluating adverse effects of medications.
alternative therapies, 1990. an overview. the availability of alternative therapies for many health problems is a well-documented historical fact. alternative therapies are generally understood to be those therapies outside of the usually accepted medical therapies for disease processes, such as cancer, arthritis, diabetes, psoriasis, lupus, and aids. some other descriptive terms utilized include questionable, unproven, dubious, unorthodox, and unconventional. these alternative therapies vary from active involvement in promotion of one's own health (exercise, diet) to quackery. in today's society, with emphasis on self-involvement with individual health, metabolic therapies have become the most widely practiced alternative therapy. in an antiestablishment, anti-intellectual climate, with an increasingly mobile, rootless population, alternative therapies are in somewhat of a renaissance. some confusion exists regarding clinical trials and alternative therapies in the general population and in the noninvolved health profession. various studies indicate that from 10% to 50% of cancer patients use some alternative therapy, with national expenditures ranging as high as $10 billion annually. better-educated patients with higher-than-average income are more likely to choose alternative therapies and are frequently supported by a physician in this choice. most cancer patients continue under a physician's care and continue usual therapy while pursuing alternative methods. approximately 5% of cancer patients abandon appropriate therapy and pursue potentially harmful alternative methods. a variety of sociomedical questions are brought forth by studies of the use of alternative therapies. a great need for public and professional education regarding this subject is evident.
pedunculated giant lipoma of the esophagus. a patient with a giant lipoma of the esophagus presented with progressive dysphagia and odynophagia, fever, and recurrent melena. two years previously, when the symptoms were less pronounced, it had been misdiagnosed as achalasia. after surgical removal of the lipoma, the patient became symptom free.
dilatation in the duplex kidney: 3 unusual cases. dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele. by contrast, vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter. we report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated.
cytogenetic evidence of clonality in a case of pigmented villonodular synovitis. pigmented villonodular synovitis is an uncommon benign lesion that is characterized by diffuse synovial proliferation. based on animal models, this lesion has been conjectured previously to be reactive in nature. in this report, the authors present the histologic and cytogenetic findings for a pigmented villonodular synovitis that was excised from the right knee of a 47-year-old man. trisomy 7 was observed in 24 of 75 (35%) metaphases obtained from short-term culture of cells from this tumor. these findings suggest that some cases of pigmented villonodular synovitis represent clonal, neoplastic proliferations.
focal myositis. a new cause for the pediatric neck mass. focal myositis is an inflammatory pseudotumor of skeletal muscle that may involve the head and neck. it can closely mimic either a neoplastic or infectious process. we present the case of a 7-year-old boy with a 2-week history of a painful, unilateral neck swelling, fever, and torticollis. he failed to respond to antibiotic therapy and required an open neck exploration. an incisional biopsy of the indurated, inflammatory tissue adherent to his sternocleidomastoid muscle showed focal myositis. focal myositis is an unusual, but important possibility in the differential diagnosis of any neck mass and especially one in a child. although its cause is unknown, it is a self-limited disease and neither excisional biopsy nor radical resection is justified.
adenotin and adenotin-like proteins coexist with adenosine receptors in mammalian tissues. the relationship of adenotin, a low-affinity adenosine-binding protein, to adenosine receptors was examined in two human tissues and two mammalian cultured cell lines. an adenosine a2 receptor exists in the membranes from platelets, pc-12 cells, and jar cells as shown by a stimulation of adenylate cyclase related to 5'-n-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (neca) or a neca-related increase in intracellular camp levels. in contrast, binding studies with tritiated neca revealed typical adenotin-like low-affinity binding sites on the membranes from the sources studied with agonist potencies as follows: neca greater than 2-chloroadenosine greater than r-pia. no evidence was found of coupling to a guanine nucleotide regulatory protein. solubilization of platelet and placental membranes and precipitation with polyethylene glycol separated adenotin or the adenotin-like protein from a second adenosine binding site in each tissue. the pharmacologic properties of the precipitated binding sites were compatible with an adenosine a2 receptor in platelets and an adenosine a1 receptor in placenta. our observations indicate that adenotin-like proteins exist outside the placenta. in addition, adenotin and adenotin-like proteins coexist with the adenosine a1 or a2 receptor in a number of cells and tissues and do not couple to a guanine nucleotide regulatory protein and stimulate adenylate cyclase. therefore, adenotin is pharmacologically distinct from adenosine receptors, and its function remains to be discovered.
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection. a review of 77 patients. through a retrospective review, we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection. patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation: 20 had focal pulmonary disease (group 1), 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease (group 2), 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis (group 3), 9 had meningitis (group 4), 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement (group 5), and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection (group 6). coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83% of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed. sera from 39% of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74% had cf antibodies. eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease (group 1 or 2). serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar, with 26% positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79% positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies. for the 77 patients in this study, the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10(9) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed, and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality (p less than 0.01). at the time of follow-up, 32 of the 77 patients (42%) had died. there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease (group 2) than in other groups (p less than 0.001). amphotericin b, ketoconazole, fluconazole, and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies. outcome could not be related to the therapy used. of note, 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions.
induction of transforming growth factor beta 1 resistance by the e1a oncogene requires binding to a specific set of cellular proteins. transforming growth factors beta (tgf-beta s) are potent inhibitors of epithelial cell growth in culture and might play a similar role in vivo. several studies have suggested that acquisition of tgf-beta resistance is an important step in epithelial tumor development. here, we show that resistance to tgf-beta 1 growth inhibition can be induced by transformation of keratinocytes with the e1a, but not the ras, oncogene. mutational analysis revealed that these effects closely correlate with the ability of e1a proteins to bind to the retinoblastoma gene product (p105) as well as to three other cellular proteins (p60, p107, and p300). only partial resistance to tgf-beta 1 growth inhibition was elicited by e1a mutants that bind to a subset of proteins, whereas complete resistance was induced by e1a mutants that bind to all four proteins together. total protection against tgf-beta growth inhibition was also induced by concomitant introduction into cells of an e1a mutant binding to the p60/p105/p107 proteins and one binding to p300. in parallel with these effects, epidermal transglutaminase, a marker of keratinocyte differentiation, was induced by tgf-beta in control but not in e1a-transformed cells. tgf-beta 1 receptor levels were only partially down-modulated by an intact e1a gene and not significantly affected by the various truncated mutants. thus, the ability of e1a to induce tgf-beta resistance depends on its ability to bind, and presumably inactivate, several cellular proteins that may be involved in transmission of the tgf-beta signal and seem to act downstream from its receptor(s).
induction chemotherapy with a new regimen alternating cisplatin, fluorouracil with mitomycin, hydroxyurea and bleomycin in carcinomas of nasopharynx or other sites of the head and neck region. sixty-six patients with locally advanced (stages iii and iv) carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with three cycles of induction chemotherapy, consisting of cisplatin, fluorouracil (fu) infusion, bleomycin, mitomycin, and hydroxyurea, followed by radiotherapy and/or surgery. there were 48 men and 18 women with a median age of 55 years (range, 18 to 75 years) and karnofsky performance status of 80 (range, 40 to 90). primary site was nasopharynx (28 patients), followed by larynx (12) and others (26). forty-one (62%) patients were presented with stage iv disease. the response rate to induction chemotherapy was 27% complete response, 50% partial response, 20% stable disease, and 3% progressive disease. there was no significant difference in response rate between patients with cancer of nasopharynx or other sites (p greater than 0.1). survival was 61% at 24 months. patients with cancer of nasopharynx had a better survival than those with other primaries (p = 0.033). toxicities from chemotherapy included alopecia (73%), nausea/vomiting (66%), leukopenia (54%), stomatitis (36%), anemia (32%), thrombocytopenia (16%), and diarrhea (9%). grade iv toxicity was not observed. induction chemotherapy with this new regimen resulted in a high response rate but may not be superior to cisplatin and fu alone. it can be safely combined with radiotherapy as a potentially curative therapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy may yield survival similar to radical surgery in laryngeal and other head and neck cancers.
in situ hybridization of prostate-specific antigen mrna in human prostate. prostate-specific antigen (psa) mrna was detected by in situ hybridization utilizing a 428 base pair [35s]-labelled cdna probe from the 3' noncoding region of the psa gene. thirty six fresh surgical specimens were collected from patients undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy for carcinoma of the prostate. quantitative analysis of the levels of psa mrna in both the benign and malignant tissues was performed using an ibas 2000 image analysis system. the results of this study demonstrated that there is a significant decrease in the expression of psa mrna in the carcinoma tissue when compared to the benign epithelium. the average binding (number of silver grains/1 x 10(4) microns. 2) for 20 specimens of malignant epithelium was 475 +/- 161 and 586 +/- 140 for 16 specimens of benign epithelium (p less than 0.05). eleven patients had both benign and malignant tissue from the same surgical specimen available for study. from these paired specimens, the psa mrna expression was also significantly reduced in the malignant epithelium when compared to the benign epithelium, 445 +/- 162 and 588 +/- 135 respectively (p less than 0.005). the psa protein was detected using a monoclonal antibody to psa with an immunohistochemical staining technique. the psa protein expression paralleled the expression of the psa mrna in the majority of the tissue sections. many of the tumor specimens showed a heterogeneous expression of psa, whereas all of the benign epithelium had a uniform high level of psa expression. in conclusion, psa mrna and protein are located only within the glandular epithelial tissue, the expression of psa protein parallels that of the psa mrna, and both the psa protein and psa mrna are significantly decreased in the malignant epithelium when compared to benign prostatic epithelium.
improved results with combined donor-specific transfusion (dst) and sequential therapy protocol. a combined dst-sequential cya therapy protocol has been described that results in optimum graft survival for 1- and 2-haplotype mismatched living related donor-recipient combinations. in addition to the excellent graft survival obtained through 4 years, lower prednisone and cya dosage levels are achieved with significantly decreased infection rates during the posttransplant period.
chronic alcoholic gastritis. roles of alcohol and helicobacter pylori. we assessed the relative roles of alcohol and infection with helicobacter pylori in the pathogenesis of chronic gastritis in alcoholic patients. helicobacter pylori was found in 14 of 18 alcoholics with dyspepsia and was associated with chronic antral gastritis. gastric biopsy specimens were normal in four h pylori-negative alcoholics. studies were repeated 3 to 4 weeks after controlled abstinence. there was no change in histologic findings during this period, indicating that alcohol itself was not the major causative agent. we then eliminated h pylori in 10 subjects by giving triple therapy (bismuth subsalicylate, amoxicillin, and metronidazole). treatment for h pylori was associated with almost complete normalization of histologic findings. four control subjects who received antacids alone showed no improvement. dyspeptic symptoms in h pylori-positive patients significantly improved after elimination of this organism, whereas there was no change with antacid treatment.
baroreflex sensitivity and electrophysiological correlates in patients after acute myocardial infarction. background. several studies have identified transient disturbances of autonomic function during the acute and recovery phases of myocardial infarction, and it has recently been suggested that survivors of acute myocardial infarction with depressed vagal tone may be at increased risk of sudden or arrhythmic death. methods and results. to investigate this hypothesis, parasympathetic function was assessed by arterial baroreflex sensitivity (brs) testing (using the phenylephrine method) and by heart rate variability (hrv) analysis from 24-hour holter recording in 68 patients at day 7-10 after infarction. the relation between autonomic tone and markers of arrhythmic propensity, including programmed ventricular stimulation (pvs) and late potentials in addition to other clinical variables, was examined. brs for the whole group was 7.0 +/- 4.7 msec/mm hg and was inversely correlated with age (r = 0.53, p less than 0.001) but not with left ventricular ejection fraction (r = 0.035, p = ns). in those patients in whom sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (smvt) was induced, brs was significantly reduced (p = 0.001) as was hrv (p = 0.007) and left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.022). the strongest association between any variable (including hrv, brs, late potentials, left ventricular ejection fraction, exercise testing, q waves, and infarct site) and the induction of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was depressed brs with a relative risk of 36.28 (95% confidence interval, 5-266). conclusions. this study confirms that depressed brs identifies a subgroup at high risk for arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction and that programmed ventricular stimulation may be safely limited to this group without any loss of predictive accuracy.
clinical evaluation of plasma abnormal prothrombin (des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin) in hepatobiliary malignancies and other diseases. des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (dcp), a protein induced by vitamin k absence or antagonist-ii (pivka-ii) was measured in the plasma of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and those with various other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases. dcp levels were determined by enzyme immunoassay (e-1023), using an anti-dcp monoclonal antibody. forty-two of the 91 patients (46.2%) with hepatocellular carcinoma had abnormally elevated levels of dcp, whereas only one of the 24 patients with hepatic cirrhosis showed a slight increase. an increase was also observed in some patients with obstructive jaundice. there was no correlation between plasma levels of dcp and those of serum alpha-fetoprotein (afp). in most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, plasma dcp levels normalized after curative surgical resection. plasma dcp levels were not related to the plasma concentration of vitamin k in the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. plasma dcp determination may be useful in the diagnosis and postoperative monitoring of the response of hepatocellular carcinoma.
renal dysfunction after angiography; a risk factor analysis in patients with peripheral vascular disease. angiography is required for a detailed anatomical investigation before reconstructive surgery or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty can be performed. although angiography is a safe procedure, it is associated with renal dysfunction, usually transient, in about 10% of the cases. this study concentrates on the evaluation of renal dysfunction induced by "conventional" (i.e. film-screen) seldinger angiography and a consecutive series of 396 angiographic procedures have been evaluated. induced renal dysfunction was defined as an increase of more than 10% in the serum creatinine after angiography. to identify "risk factors" for induced renal dysfunction we have studied whether clinical and angiographical variables were associated with the occurrence of induced renal dysfunction. these variables included: age, hypertension, the use of antihypertensive drugs, diabetes mellitus, technique of angiography, site of contrast injection and type and quantity of contrast medium. induced renal dysfunction was found in 21 cases (5.7%) and appeared to be associated with age above 70, hypertension, administration of more than 150 ml contrast medium and the presence of renal disease prior to angiography. more than 95% of the 21 patients with dysfunction had two or more of these "risk factors". the presence of diabetes was not clearly associated with induced renal dysfunction and haemodialyses was not required in any of the patients. the incidence of induced renal dysfunction after angiography was 5.7% which is low but not negligible. however, renal dysfunction was always transient and never severe. furthermore, the identification of "risk factors" allows the prompt identification of patients at risk before angiography, which may help to reduce the incidence of induced renal dysfunction.
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the patient with cancer. the records of 114 cancer patients suffering cardiopulmonary arrests (cpa) during a 3-year period at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center (mskcc) were retrospectively reviewed to identify variables predicting final outcome in these patients. although 65.7% of the patients were successfully resuscitated, only 12 (10.5%) were discharged alive from the hospital. median survival after discharge was 150 days. by univariate and multivariate analysis, the only variable predicting the likelihood of a patient's being discharged alive after a cpa was the performance status of the patient at the time of admission to the hospital. thus, a patient spending more than 50% of the time in bed at the time of admission had only a 2.3% chance of being discharged alive after cpa. a thorough discussion of these findings between physicians and patients and their families is strongly recommended at the time of admission to spare cancer patients unnecessary invasive resuscitative procedures.
the comportmental learning disabilities of early frontal lobe damage. two adult patients are described who suffered bilateral prefrontal damage early in life and who subsequently came to psychiatric attention because of severely aberrant behaviour. a battery of developmental psychology paradigms (not previously used to assess neurologically impaired individuals) showed that social and moral development of these 2 patients was arrested at an immature stage. in comparison with other types of brain damage which disrupt cognitive development, frontal damage acquired early in life appears to provide the neurological substrate for a special type of learning disability in the realms of insight, foresight, social judgement, empathy, and complex reasoning.
polyneuropathy syndromes associated with serum antibodies to sulfatide and myelin-associated glycoprotein. we studied a series of 64 patients with sensory +/- motor peripheral neuropathies by comparing clinical and physiologic features to serum antibody reactivity against compounds containing sulfated carbohydrate moieties. we determined antibody reactivity by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) using purified glycolipids and glycoproteins as antigens, and we used high-performance thin-layer chromatography and western blotting to test the specificity of results. twelve patients with high titers of igm antibodies directed against the myelin-associated glycoprotein (mag) had sensory-motor polyneuropathies with physiologic evidence of demyelination. igm antibody reactivity to mag was associated with an igm serum m protein in five patients. eight other patients, most with sensory greater than motor polyneuropathies, had high titers of antibody reactivity to sulfatide but not of igm to mag. two had an associated igm paraprotein. none of the patients with selective serum antisulfatide activity had predominantly demyelinating features on physiologic testing. we conclude that (1) high elisa titers of antibodies to mag may be more common than previously suspected in patients with chronic demyelinating sensory-motor neuropathies, and (2) the presence of high titers of antisulfatide antibodies in serum may provide clues to the pathogenesis of otherwise idiopathic, axonal, predominantly sensory neuropathies.
survey of alabama physicians' use of mammography, 1989. in early 1989 we surveyed by questionnaire alabama primary care physicians (n = 1800) concerning their attitudes toward and use of mammography. there were 681 respondents (37.8%). the majority (83%) recommend mammograms for their patients according to the american cancer society guidelines and obtain baseline studies in asymptomatic women between the ages of 35 and 40 years. it appears that the cost of mammograms is decreasing in alabama; a screening study was available for $50 or less to 34% of responding physicians. almost one half (48%) of the physician respondents believe that more than 50% of their patients have had at least one mammogram.
microsaccadic flutter. microsaccadic flutter is a rare symptomatic saccadic oscillation that has been reported only twice previously. here we describe 5 patients with this disorder. the oscillation is horizontal, has a frequency of 15-30 hz, an amplitude of 0.1-0.5 degrees, and cannot be seen with the unaided eye. it is usually not associated with any underlying neurological disorder. we hypothesize that microsaccadic flutter is due to malfunction of the brainstem omnipause neurons.
the effects of epidural anesthesia on the doppler velocimetry of umbilical and uterine arteries in normal and hypertensive patients during active term labor. to study the effects of epidural anesthesia on uterine and umbilical artery blood flow in preeclampsia, we observed 25 patients in active labor at 36 or more weeks' gestation. seven had preeclampsia, eight had chronic hypertension, and ten had no complications. doppler velocimetry of the uterine and umbilical arteries was performed before and after intravenous fluid loading and at 30 and 60 minutes after epidural blockade. maternal vital signs and fetal heart rate were monitored continuously. after epidural block, mean maternal blood pressure fell significantly in all groups, but no maternal hypotension was observed. mean maternal and fetal heart rates were unchanged. after epidural block, mean uterine artery systolic-diastolic (s-d) ratios did not change in the chronic-hypertension and normal groups, but fell significantly in the preeclamptic group to values similar to those of the normal group. umbilical artery s-d ratios did not change in any group. in preeclamptic pregnancy, epidural anesthesia may help to reduce uterine artery vasospasm and may benefit intrapartum fetal well-being.
edge detection versus densitometry for assessing coronary stenting quantitatively. the optimal method used to analyze quantitatively the immediate angiographic results of coronary stenting in the coronary arteries has not been studied. accordingly, minimal luminal cross-sectional area was determined by 2 methods, edge detection and densitometry, in 19 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) and then coronary stent implantation for symptomatic coronary stenoses. the correlation coefficient, 0.73 before angioplasty, decreased to 0.59 after coronary angioplasty and then increased to 0.83 after stent implantation. the mean differences between edge detection and densitometric determinations of minimal luminal cross-sectional area were 0.31 +/- 0.51 mm2 before ptca, -0.38 +/- 1.22 mm2 after angioplasty and 0.35 +/- 0.79 mm2 after coronary stenting. it is concluded that, although the correlation and variability in the measurement of minimal luminal cross-sectional area between edge detection and densitometry deteriorate after ptca, they are improved after stenting, probably because of smoothing of the vessel contours by the stent and remodeling of the stented segment into a more circular configuration. therefore, in the stented coronary artery, edge detection and densitometry are equally acceptable methods of analysis.
enterogenous cyst of the cerebellopontine angle cistern: case report. a case of an enterogenous cyst located in the cerebellopontine angle cistern is presented. these cysts have usually been found in the spinal canal, and their intracranial occurrence is exceptional. in the present case, the cyst was lined histologically by a single epithelial layer of cuboidal cells with some glandular structures resembling the fundic glands of the stomach. the unusual location of the cyst and its histological features are discussed.
deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass after failed femoropopliteal reconstructions. deep femoral to anterior tibial artery bypass is a reconstructive technique occasionally applicable when more conventional attempts at revascularization of the distal portion of the leg have failed. three such patients, in whom the anterior tibial was the only distal patent branch of the popliteal artery, had severe symptoms of arterial insufficiency. deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass was done using autogenous the distal portion of the deep femoral artery was exposed through an anteromedial distal thigh approach. the three patients have been followed up for a mean of 20.3 months, and each maintains graft patency and marked symptomatic improvement.
dynamic cardiomyoplasty in chronic chagas' heart disease: clinicopathological data. we report a 44-year-old man with chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy who underwent latissimus dorsi dynamic cardiomyoplasty and died 4 months later. the clinicopathological findings are discussed, and the literature is reviewed.
prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass for intermittent claudication. there is no consensus about the most appropriate management of the patient with intermittent claudication due to a superficial femoral artery occlusion. to evaluate the natural history of prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal (akfp) bypass, 200 operations for intermittent claudication were reviewed. one hundred akfp bypasses were done with ptfe and 100 with dacron. in the 30 day postoperative period, four ptfe and three dacron grafts occluded without consequence and only one patient died. analysis of results by the life-table method demonstrated statistically similar primary graft patency rates at five years (ptfe 65% se +/- 6.5, dacron 57% +/- 6.2) and ten years (ptfe 31% +/- 18/9, dacron 32% +/- 13.2) (p greater than 0.10). redo procedures (e.g., thrombectomy, angioplasty) were necessary on 21 grafts (12 ptfe, 9 dacron) and "secondary" patency rates at five years were 76% ptfe and 62% dacron; no grafts which required a redo procedure were patent at ten year follow-up. major amputations during ten year follow-up were necessary in 16 (8%) patients; all amputations were in diabetic patients. survival rates were 79% at five and 42% at ten years. an anticipated, the leading cause of death was cardiac related (25 patients); 28 (14%) patients underwent aortocoronary bypass during follow-up. a prosthetic akfp bypass graft is a safe and durable operation which provides relief from the symptoms of intermittent claudication while allowing for the preservation of the saphenous vein for use later in the coronary or infrapopliteal circulations, should the need arise. these results indicate that the risk of amputation after akfp is no greater than the natural history of untreated claudication; however, akfp offers a significant improvement in life-style.
a controlled trial of psychological treatment for the irritable bowel syndrome. one hundred two patients with irritable bowel syndrome were studied in a controlled trial of psychological treatment involving psychotherapy, relaxation, and standard medical treatment compared with standard medical treatment alone. patients were only selected if their symptoms had not improved with standard medical treatment over the previous 6 months. at 3 months, the treatment group showed significantly greater improvement than the controls on both gastroenterologists' and patients' ratings of diarrhea and abdominal pain, but constipation changed little. good prognostic factors included overt psychiatric symptoms and intermittent pain exacerbated by stress, whereas those with constant abdominal pain were helped little by this treatment. this study has demonstrated that psychological treatment is feasible and effective in two thirds of those patients with irritable bowel syndrome who do not respond to standard medical treatment.
successful surgical treatment of subaortic stenosis caused by an accessory mitral valve. a 22-month-old boy with subaortic stenosis was found to have relatively mature mitral valve tissue beneath the aortic valve, associated with a hypertrophic and prominent interventricular septum. this tissue caused obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract and resulted in a pressure gradient of 70 mmhg between the aorta and the left ventricle. surgical treatment was successfully performed to excise the tissue and part of the hypertrophic ventricular septum. results of microscopic examination of the resected specimen are shown and discussed.
social environment and social support. research on the relevance of social support to cancer has been plentiful since the first american cancer society workshop on methodological issues in behavioral and psychosocial science. nonetheless, critical shortcomings continue to characterize the attempt empirically to establish such things as the extent to which social support predicts adjustment to cancer diagnosis and treatment. prominent among these is the failure to adequately address large elements of the social structure, such as social class and urbanization, and to investigate how they shape the well being of persons with or at risk for cancer and their caregivers. we recommend that more psychosocial research on the link between social support and cancer be conducted within populations beset by poverty and without adequate access to health care. funding is needed for the training and maintenance of multidisciplinary and multicultural teams of researchers working within community-based organizations and hospitals serving the underserved.
the long-term prognosis of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest but no inducible ventricular tachycardia. the long-term prognosis of patients successfully resuscitated from cardiac arrest who do not have acute precipitating factors and in whom ventricular arrhythmias cannot be induced during baseline electrophysiologic testing is controversial. the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the long-term risk of recurrent sudden death and determine the clinical, angiographic, hemodynamic, and electrophysiologic predictors of recurrent cardiac arrest in such patients. twenty-six (37%) of 71 consecutive patients with a single episode of aborted sudden death did not have inducible ventricular arrhythmias (less than 7 intraventricular responses) during baseline drug-free electrophysiologic study and they form the basis of this report. their mean age was 54 +/- 13 (mean +/- sd) years and the left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) was 0.47 +/- 0.17. after a mean follow-up period of 16 months, 11 patients (42%) had a recurrent cardiac arrest (fatal in 10 patients). the actuarial incidence of recurrent cardiac arrest was 30 +/- 10% at 1 year and 55 +/- 13% at 3 years. patients with lvef less than or equal to 0.40 had a significantly higher occurrence of recurrent cardiac arrest than those with lvef greater than 0.40 (p = 0.02; 1-year actuarial incidence of 57 +/- 17% versus 13 +/- 19%). patients with recurrent sudden death had a significantly greater incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy (55% versus 7%; p = 0.02) and baseline frequent premature ventricular contractions (pvcs greater than 10/hr; 64% versus 17%, p = 0.036) or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (36% versus 0%; p = 0.37) than patients without these characteristics.
the presence of human papillomavirus type 16 in squamous cell carcinoma of the proximal finger and reconstruction with a bilobed transposition flap. in a 71 year old white female a clinically diagnosed keratoacanthoma on the dorsum of the right third finger was removed using mohs micrographic surgery and histologically diagnosed as a squamous cell carcinoma. it was shown by dot blot hybridization to have hpv type 16 dna in the tumor. the wound was reconstructed with a bilobed transposition flap.
a tongue force measurement system for the assessment of oral-phase swallowing disorders. a computer-aided measuring system using a highly sensitive beam transducer has been developed to provide a quantitative, reliable measure of tongue strength. this tool has application in both the diagnosis and treatment of dysphagic patients with oral-stage dysfunction. the device is customized to comfortably adapt to each individual. audiovisual feedback is used to enhance subject interest and motivation. the device has proven reliable in measurements of upward and side tongue thrust in six able-bodied subjects measured during five separate sessions. it has also been used with two dysphagic patients.
comparison of symptom characteristics of indwelling ureteral catheters. the signs and symptoms produced by 4 different types of 7f double pigtail catheters, including cook polyurethane pigtail stent, surgitek silitek uropass, cook c-flex and van-tec soft stent, were analyzed prospectively. the stents were placed in 45 men and 28 women ranging in age from 23 to 72 years old. a total of 44 catheters had a suture attached to the bladder end of the catheter, which exited from the urethral meatus to facilitate removal. the remaining 29 catheters had no suture attached. symptoms were evaluated at 2 and 6 days after insertion and 1 week following removal of the catheter, and included urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, flank pain, suprapubic pain, dysuria and pain on removal of the catheter. frequency and nocturia were evaluated in minutes, pain was graded on a subjective scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (severe pain), and dysuria and hematuria were assessed qualitatively. there were no significant differences among the 4 types of catheters in terms of frequency, nocturia, hematuria, flank pain, suprapubic pain and dysuria. in addition, there was no significant difference in urinary symptoms between catheters with and without a suture at either 2 or 6 days after insertion nor was there any difference in pain on removal of catheters with (mean 3.9) and without (mean 5.0) suture. we found that catheter composition and use of suture to facilitate removal did not significantly affect patient morbidity.
premalignant lesions and cancers of the skin in the general population: evaluation of the role of human papillomaviruses. to evaluate the role of human papillomaviruses (hpv) in the development of premalignant lesions and cancers of the skin in the general population, 314 biopsies obtained from 227 patients with benign neoplasms, premalignant lesions, and cancers of the skin and from 25 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lip were analyzed by southern blot hybridization. dna probes specific for various cutaneous and genital hpv types were used in hybridizations conducted under nonstringent or stringent conditions. hpv dna sequences were only detected in eight specimens obtained from six patients: hpv 34 in one case of periungual bowen's disease, hpv 36 and an as yet uncharacterized hpv in two cases of actinic keratosis, hpv 20 in one case of basal cell carcinoma, an as yet unrecognized hpv in one case of squamous cell carcinoma, and hpv 16 in one case of squamous cell carcinoma of the lip. none of the specimens of cutaneous horn and keratoacanthoma contained detectable hpv dna. in contrast, hpv dna sequences, mostly hpv 16, were detected in 13 of 23 cases of anogenital bowen's disease and invasive bowen's carcinoma. hpv dna sequences were not detected in 90 cutaneous samples further analyzed by the polymerase chain-reaction technique, using amplification primers that contain conserved sequences among the genomes of hpv. these results strongly suggest that the known hpv types play only a minor role, if any, in skin carcinogenesis in the general population.
corticosteroid-responsive dominantly inherited neuropathy in childhood. we describe three children with corticosteroid-responsive inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy from families with dominantly inherited neuropathy. there were atypical clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic characteristics that suggested a coexistent inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy and that should alert the clinician to the possibility of an associated acquired, potentially treatable disorder.
axial rotation of the lumbar spine and the effect of flexion. an in vitro and in vivo biomechanical study. a series of experiments were performed on eight whole, cadaveric lumbar spines and on eight male volunteers to determine whether axial rotation changed with subjects bending forward compared with being in a neutral posture and whether rotation was affected by articular tropism. kirschner wires were inserted into the spinous processes of the eight cadaveric lumbar spines, and the axial rotation of the wires was measured while the spine was rotated in a torsion apparatus. similarly, steinmann pins were inserted into the spinous processes of l3, l4, and l5 of the eight volunteers, and the axial rotation of the pins was measured while the subjects rotated in a torsion apparatus. axial rotation was found to be less when combined with forward flexion, and articular tropism did not influence the amplitude of rotation.
studies evaluating antioxidants and beta-carotene as chemopreventives. cancer chemoprevention research takes leads from epidemiologic and laboratory research and develops them through in vitro and in vivo preclinical research and initial human studies into randomized controlled clinical trials. at present, the chemoprevention program is sponsoring 21 human efficacy studies. these trials are testing the potential of agents (beta-carotene, folic acid, 13-cis retinoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenyl retinamide, vitamins c and e, and minerals) as inhibitors of a variety of cancers in humans (colon, lung, esophagus, cervix, bladder, and skin). endpoints in these studies include overall incidence of cancer, incidence of specific cancers, rate of regression or progression of preneoplastic changes, and changes in cellular or biochemical parameters. study participants include volunteers from the general population; populations at high risk for cancer because of occupation, lifestyle, or place of residence; persons with previously treated cancers; and persons with preneoplastic lesions. study designs include single agent randomization, combination of agents and complete factorial designs.
catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy in multiple endocrine neoplasia. a histologic, ultrastructural, and biochemical study. a catecholamine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy is reported in a patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 3. a histologic and ultrastructural study has been undertaken in cardiac biopsy samples, together with determination of myocardial ca++ and cellular membrane fatty acids. contraction band necrosis of cardiocytes with supercontraction of sarcomeres progressing to myofibrolysis and increased levels of myocardial ca++ have been found as morphologic and biochemical abnormalities, respectively. no lipoperoxidation of cellular membranes or an alpha-adrenergic mediated reduction of coronary supply could be recognized in the study. we indicate a receptor-mediated intracellular ca++ overload as the main abnormality responsible for myocardial impairment.
pharynx: value of oblique projections for radiographic examination. the utility of oblique views for augmenting standard posteroanterior and lateral double-contrast radiography of the pharynx was examined. over an 8-month period, two oblique views were added to the standard posteroanterior and lateral views of the pharynx during routine upper gastrointestinal studies in 102 patients divided into two groups. group 1 consisted of 81 patients without suspected pharyngeal or esophageal disease who demonstrated what was considered to be normal anatomy on all radiographic views. group 2 consisted of 21 patients who were known or suspected to have pathologic abnormality of the pharynx. the members of this latter group each demonstrated various abnormal pharyngeal anatomy on the standard views. in just over half of these cases the oblique projection contributed significant information not obtained with conventional views. therefore, the authors conclude that oblique images are a beneficial addition to the diagnostic evaluation of patients highly suspected of having pharyngeal disease.
the pathology of nonpalpable breast cancer. a principal goal of mammographic screening is the early detection of breast cancer. we reviewed records of 125 women who were referred because of nonpalpable, suspicious abnormalities on mammogram, which subsequently proved to be cancer, requiring mammographic localization biopsy and subsequent surgery for therapy. we found that 72 (57.6%) had invasive tumors, 15 (12%) showed evidence of microinvasion and 38 (30.4%) were noninvasive. a total of 115 patients had lymphadenectomy as part of their definitive surgery. nine (12.7%) of the patients with infiltrating tumors had between one and 10 malignant nodes on histologic section. none of the patients with noninvasive or microinvasive tumors were found to have involved nodes. the mammographic abnormalities which led to biopsy in our series were: calcifications in 74 (59.2%) patients, mass lesions in 39 (31.2%), mass lesions with calcifications in 11 (8.8%), and asymmetry in one (0.8%). of the nine patients with nodal metastases, seven (77.8%) had a mass with or without calcifications as the indication for biopsy. increasing tumor size was found to correlate with invasive tumors on histopathologic examination and the incidence of lymph node metastases. thirty-seven (54.4%) of the patients with infiltrating tumors had a tumor size greater than 1 cm. further, seven (77.8%) of the nine lymph node positive patients had tumors between 1 and 3 cm in size. of note, however, is that two (22.2%) patients with microscopic tumors had involved nodes. the 4-year actuarial survival in patients with infiltrating tumors was 85.2 per cent, while that for patients with noninvasive or microinvasive tumors was 100 per cent (median follow-up of 20 months).
surgery or radiation for early cervical cancer. in summary, neither radiation nor surgery is clearly superior. the benefits of surgery include: 1) emotional satisfaction that the tumor has been removed, 2) accuracy of surgical staging, 3) preservation of the ovaries, 4) no secondary uterine cancer (a very uncommon problem), and 5) complications that are more readily correctable. radiation offers the major advantages of being useful in most patients regardless of age or medical condition and is the choice for large cancers. because stage ib cervical cancer is a very diverse pathological entity with a number of potential prognostic factors (including cell type, depth of invasion, tumor volume, lymphatic space involvement, and occult lymph node metastases), and because patients present with a number of other conditions (including excess weight, advanced age, prior pelvic surgery or infection, and severe medical illness), we are fortunate to have two good methods for treating cervical cancer. prospective randomized studies will be necessary in the future to better define specific advantages in the various clinical settings. but, in general, the following have proven most expedient: 1) class i hysterectomy, for microinvasive cancer of 3 mm invasion or less without lymphatic space involvement, 2) modified, extended hysterectomy (class ii) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for lesions of 3 mm and lymph vascular space involvement or when the lesion seems to just exceed 3 mm and for very early adenocarcinoma, 3) an extended hysterectomy (class iii) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for larger ia2, ib, and iia lesions that are less than 4 cm, particularly for the pregnant or younger patient, and when ovarian conservation is desired, 4) radiation therapy is used for lesions over 4 cm and for women with severe medical illness making extended hysterectomy too hazardous, 5) combination therapy and chemotherapy are now reserved for study in poor prognosis patients with very large lesions (greater than 6 cm), occult metastases, and unfavorable histologic criteria (table 2).
misinterpretation of the upper parathyroid adenoma on thallium-201/technetium-99m subtraction scintigraphy. pre-operative thallium-technetium subtraction scintigraphy of 50 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, which was subsequently proven on histology to be due to an adenoma, was compared with operative findings. six scans were negative and seven uninterpretable. of the remaining 37 patients, 34 had correct scan prediction of the anatomical locations of the adenomas. on examination of the origins of the adenomas, all six scintigraphic predictions of upper adenomas corresponded to tumours arising from the upper gland found at operation. of the 25 lower predictions, there was one false positive and 16 were correct, i.e. of lower gland origin, but eight were found to originate from the upper gland. this misinterpretation is though to be due to the prolapse of an adenoma arising from the upper gland towards the lower pole of the thyroid, thereby mimicking a lower lesion on the scan.
role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy. the purpose of this study was to determine the role of laparoscopy in patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and a normal computerized tomograph (ct). twenty-five consecutive patients with a normal liver and no peritoneal lesions on ct were evaluated. patients with a documented primary neoplasm or a positive ascitic fluid cytology were excluded. at laparoscopy, malignancy was documented by biopsy in 12 patients for an incidence of 48%. of the patients with exudative ascites, 75% had peritoneal metastases. in addition seven patients had benign liver disease documented by laparoscopic biopsy. liver enzymes were not helpful in distinguishing benign and malignant disease in this group of patients. this study indicates that a negative ct does not exclude liver or peritoneal malignancy. laparoscopy has a significant yield in patients with a negative ct suspected of having hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and is the procedure of choice in evaluating these patients.
posthypoxic glucose supplement reduces hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in the neonatal rat. we evaluated the effect of posthypoxic glucose supplement in a neonatal hypoxic-ischemic animal model. seven-day-old rats underwent bilateral ligation of the carotid arteries, followed by exposure to an 8% oxygen atmosphere for 1 hour. the extent of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage was assessed histologically 72 hours later. glucose load immediately after the end of the hypoxic exposure reduced the volume of neocortical infarction to 37% of the unsupplemented value, and attenuated ischemic damage in the striatum and the dentate gyrus. at the end of the hypoxic exposure, the brain level of glucose was 0.3 mmol/kg and the level of lactate 9 mmol/kg. glucose supplement produced a rapid rise in brain glucose level to 3 to 5 mmol/kg over the next 2 hours. lactate in both brain and plasma gradually fell toward the baseline level during the first hour of recovery. posthypoxic glucose supplement slightly retarded lactate restitution. at any period of this neonatal model, brain lactate levels did not exceed the toxic level, which is postulated to be responsible for cerebral infarction in adult ischemic models. these results illustrate the important role of glucose in the development of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and the fact that full cortical infarction can develop even if brain lactate levels are low.
modification of atrioventricular node transmission properties by intraoperative neodymium-yag laser photocoagulation in dogs. the purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet (nd-yag) laser photocoagulation of the atrioventricular (av) node to control the ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms without creating av block. in 12 dogs on normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass, short laser pulses were delivered to an area between the coronary sinus orifice and the site of the most proximally recorded his deflection until second degree av block occurred at a paced atrial rate of 200 beats/min. long-term effects on av node function were followed up for 3 months. three animals developed chronic high grade av block. in nine animals with preserved 1:1 conduction, the mean (+/- sem) critical atrial cycle length resulting in av node wenckebach periodicity increased from 183 +/- 6 to 261 +/- 24 ms (+43%), the mean rr interval during induced atrial fibrillation increased from 248 +/- 14 to 330 +/- 27 ms (+32%) and the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation increased from 215 +/- 11 to 275 +/- 20 ms (+28%). laser effects were not reversed by isoproterenol infusion. histologic examination of the irradiated area showed fibrotic changes in the av node and fatty metamorphosis. this study suggests that 1) graded nd-yag laser photocoagulation of the av node region in dogs results in long-term modification of anterograde av node transmission properties; 2) 1:1 conduction during sinus rhythm usually remains preserved, but ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms is chronically reduced; and 3) progression to high grade av block occurs in a minority of animals.
new approaches in the rehabilitation of the traumatic high level quadriplegic. the use of noninvasive alternatives to tracheostomy for ventilatory support have been described in the patient management of various neuromuscular disorders. the use of these techniques for patients with traumatic high level quadriplegia, however, is hampered by the resort to tracheostomy in the acute hospital setting. twenty traumatic high level quadriplegic patients on intermittent positive pressure ventilation (ippv) via tracheostomy with little or no ability for unassisted breathing were converted to noninvasive ventilatory support methods and had their tracheostomy sites closed. four additional patients were ventilated by noninvasive methods without tracheostomy. these methods included the use of body ventilators and the noninvasive intermittent positive airway pressure alternatives of ippv via the mouth, nose, or custom acrylic strapless oral-nasal interface (soni). overnight end-tidal pco2 studies and monitoring of oxyhemoglobin saturation (sao2) were used to adjust ventilator volumes and to document effective ventilation during sleep. no significant complications have resulted from the use of these methods over a period of 45 patient-years. elimination of the tracheostomy permitted significant free time by glossopharyngeal breathing for four patients, two of whom had no measurable vital capacity. we conclude that noninvasive ventilatory support alternatives can be effective and deserve further study in this patient population.
resistance to atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade in patients with intractable seizure disorders treated with anticonvulsants. previous studies have demonstrated that, with the exception of atracurium, resistance to the neuromuscular blocking effects of various muscle relaxants develops in patients receiving anticonvulsant therapy. we studied the effects of 0.5 mg/kg iv atracurium in 53 neurosurgical patients: 21 nonepileptic patients receiving no anticonvulsant therapy (med = 0); 14 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine for years (med = 1); and 18 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine plus either phenytoin or valproic acid for years (med = 2). the evoked compound electromyogram of the adductor pollicis brevis was recorded, and results were analyzed using analysis of covariance, with weight and age as covariables. the onset time was not significantly different among the three groups. times for recovery of baseline and train-of-four responses to stimuli were significantly shorter in the med = 1 and med = 2 groups than in control patients (med = 0). the recovery index (time between 25% and 75% recovery of baseline electromyogram values) was progressively shorter in the three groups (med = 0: 8.02 min; med = 1: 5.93 min; med = 2: 1.96 min; p less than 0.001). this study demonstrates that atracurium, when used on epileptic patients requiring long-term (that is, years of) anticonvulsant therapy, has a shorter duration of action than when used in nonepileptic patients.
is local recurrence of minor importance for metastases in soft tissue sarcoma? the authors analyzed the relationship between treatment, local recurrence, and metastases in a population-based series of 375 patients with soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities and the trunk wall. treatment was inadequate (marginal excision alone) in 107 patients, local recurrence occurred in 112, and 128 patients developed metastases. local recurrence was 3.5 times more common after inadequate treatment than after adequate and 2.5 times more common in patients with metastases than in those without. however, metastases were only 1.2 times more common after inadequate treatment than after adequate. of the 128 patients who developed metastases, 63 had local recurrence and 65 had not. in these two subgroups the timing of metastases and the distribution of clinicopathologic factors--age, sex, tumor size, localization, depth, histotype, and malignancy grade--were similar. these findings indicate that local recurrence is of minor importance for development of metastases in soft tissue sarcoma. the increased local recurrence rate in metastatic tumors may be an expression of the aggressiveness of the primary tumor; highly malignant tumors combine a potential both for local and distant spread.
macrophage colony-stimulating factor activity in malignant pleural effusions. its augmentation by intrapleural interleukin-2 infusions. the activity of endogenous colony-stimulating factor (csf) in malignant pleural effusions of lung cancer patients before and during daily intrapleural infusions of recombinant interleukin-2 (il-2) was measured quantitatively by colony-forming bioassay and radioimmunoassay (ria). before therapy, malignant pleural effusions had various levels of csf activities, and this csf activity was neutralized almost completely by anti-m-csf antibody. ria also showed that the effusions contained various amounts of m-csf. daily intrapleural infusion of recombinant il-2 caused significant increase in the csf activities and m-csf levels in pleural effusions. these results indicate that in vivo treatment with il-2 induces production of endogenous m-csf.
ki-b5: a monoclonal antibody unrelated to cd45 recognizes normal and neoplastic human b cells in routine paraffin sections. in the search for immunoreagents appropriate for the histopathologic diagnosis of malignant b-cell lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections, a new monoclonal antibody, ki-b5, was generated using a high-grade b-cell lymphoma as the immunogene. ki-b5 is a mouse igg1/kappa that recognizes five protein fractions of about 84, 82, 55, 48, and 27 kd after biosynthetic radiolabeling and immunoprecipitation. protein fractions with the molecular weights of approximately 84 and 82 kd were expressed on the cell surface and show that ki-b5 is probably unrelated to cd45. it was possible through electron microscopy to visualize the membrane-bound portion of ki-b5. extensive immunohistologic studies on normal human tissue and various neoplasias demonstrated the high specificity of ki-b5 to normal human b cells and a minor subgroup of plasma cells. except for ml-2, which is a myelomonocytic human cell line, ki-b5 exclusively recognized the b-cell lineage, including eb-3, ball-1, and nalm-1. all carcinomas, sarcomas, and malignant melanomas tested with ki-b5 were negative. although normal granulocytes and monocytes were constantly negative, three of eight myelomonocytic leukemias coreacted with this antibody. eight of the 57 t-cell lymphomas studied were positive to ki-b5. five were classified as lymphoblastic, two represented t8-cll, and one was classified as immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma. only 3 of 126 cases of b-cell lymphoma, including rare types not considered in the current classifications, were negative to ki-b5. plasmacytomas were also negative, except for one case. irrespective of the cases of lymphoblastic lymphoma and plasmacytoma, ki-b5 represents a new monoclonal antibody appropriate for the diagnosis and immunophenotyping of malignant lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections.
headache. public health problem. headache is, and apparently always has been, a frequent pain syndrome. it is reported in american and western european societies in very high percentages of the population. headache, and specifically severe headache, have also been reported as prevalent from a variety of societies worldwide, although prevalence rates have varied (they are very low, for example, in the people's republic of china). whether prevalence varies with different socioeconomic groups remains uncertain. severe headache and specifically migraine is, for reasons still unknown, much more common in women, and, in most studies, is reported to decrease in prevalence in older age groups. positive family histories are common, but the precise role of genetics is unknown. a major problem in the epidemiologic studies remains the difficulty of uniform definition of headache syndromes.
ventricular load optimization by unloading therapy in patients with heart failure. the effects of unloading a depressed heart were assessed in terms of optimal coupling between the ventricle and arterial system. to assess the effects of preload on ventricular load coupling, preload was reduced with a lower body negative pressure of -20 mm hg. nitroprusside was used to evaluate the effects of afterload on the coupling under the condition that preload reduction was comparable to that with lower body negative pressure. in 13 patients with heart failure (ejection fraction 32 +/- 3%, mean +/- se), direct arterial pressure was simultaneously recorded with the left ventricular echocardiogram as the pressure was elevated by phenylephrine. left ventricular contractile properties were defined by the slope (ees) of the end-systolic pressure-volume relation. the effective arterial elastance (ea) was expressed by the slope of the end-systolic pressure-stroke volume relation. left ventricular external work, end-systolic potential energy and work efficiency, defined as external work per pressure volume area (external work + potential energy), were determined. baseline ventricular load coupling in these patients was characterized by an increase in the ratio of arterial elastance to ventricular elastance (ea/ees) (1.96 +/- 0.31). this ratio decreased significantly, to 1.45 +/- 0.22, with nitroprusside, and increased to 2.37 +/- 0.34 with lower body negative pressure. therefore, end-systolic potential energy was decreased by nitroprusside but was unaltered by lower body negative pressure while external work was comparably decreased by both manipulations, indicating that work efficiency was significantly augmented with nitroprusside but declined with lower body negative pressure.
serial prothrombin time as prognostic indicator in paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure. objective--to find out whether changes in the daily prothrombin time are of prognostic importance in patients with paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure. design--retrospective study. setting--the liver unit, king's college hospital, london. patients--150 consecutive patients with paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure admitted between october 1986 and february 1989. main outcome measure--death. results--of the 150 patients, 72 (48%) died. in all, 34 of the 37 (92%) patients with a peak prothrombin time of greater than or equal to 180 seconds died as did 20 of the 41 (49%) with a time of 130-179 seconds, nine of the 25 (36%) with a time of 90-129 seconds, and nine of the 47 (19%) with a time of less than 90 seconds. of the 42 patients with a continuing rise in prothrombin time between days 3 and 4 after overdose, 39 died (93%) compared with 21 of the 96 (22%) in whom the prothrombin time fell. conclusions--these data indicate that a continued increase in prothrombin time on day 4 after overdose and a peak prothrombin time of greater than or equal to 180 seconds identify at an early stage those patients with a less than 8% chance of survival. liver transplantation should be considered in patients meeting either of these criteria.
enteroaggregative escherichia coli elaborate a heat-stable enterotoxin demonstrable in an in vitro rabbit intestinal model. enteroaggregative escherichia coli (eaggec) have been associated with persistent diarrhea in young children, but little is known about its pathogenesis. we assayed for enterotoxic activity in culture filtrates (cf) of eaggec strains in ussing chambers mounted with rabbit ileal mucosa. cf from strain 17-2, a prototype chilean eaggec strain, caused a greater rise in potential difference and short circuit current (scc) than that seen in hb101 control, and this effect was abolished by protease pretreatment and partially stable after heat treatment. ultrafiltration of 17-2 cf preparations localized the active moiety to the 2-5 kd mr size range. cf from hb101 transformed with the 17-2 plasmid showed ussing chamber activity. less than 10-kd cf fractions from five of six other eaggec strains screened in ussing chambers gave scc responses of similar magnitude to 17-2. the 17-2 cf activity was not neutralized after pretreatment with polyclonal anti-sta antibody. additionally, all of the seven eaggec strains studied were nonreactive by heat-stable enterotoxin variant sta elisa, were negative in the suckling mouse assay, and failed to hybridize with heat-stable enterotoxin variant sth and stp dna probes. in summary, our data indicate that 17-2 produces a low molecular weight, partially heat-stable, protease-sensitive enterotoxin which appears to be plasmid associated, and genetically and immunologically distinct from e. coli sta. preliminary screening suggests that this tox+ phenotype may be common among eaggec.
carcinoma of female urethra. manitoba experience: 1958-1987. fourteen female patients with primary urethral carcinoma were treated at the manitoba cancer foundation in the last twenty-nine years. the relationship of natural history to the stage, location, and therapeutic modality has been reviewed. a higher stage and length of urethral involvement affected prognosis negatively, whereas lower stage had a positive prognostic effect and location of tumor had no prognostic influence. two patients with stage c, who failed to received inguinal node radiotherapy, died of disease recurring in the inguinal area. patients who received inguinal radiation (3 patients stages b, c, and d1) had no regional recurrence. it is suggested that, for all female urethral carcinoma, bilateral ilioinguinal nodes be included in the radiation field. for radical treatment, iridium 192 insertion in combination with external beam treatment is recommended.
bile acids in human plasma interfere with cholecystokinin bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini. a bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini was used to measure fasting plasma cholecystokinin (cck) concentrations in 105 patients with various kinds of gastrointestinal diseases, 17 patients with diabetes mellitus, and 6 healthy volunteers. high plasma cck bioactivities were observed in patients with obstructive jaundice, choledocolithiasis, and primary biliary cirrhosis. twenty-three samples with high cck bioactivities were assayed by the same bioassay after the addition of a specific cck antagonist and by a cck radioimmunoassay in order to determine whether the high cck-like bioactivity was due to circulating cck or other factors. high cck bioactivities were partially inhibited by the specific cck antagonist, cr-1409, but the activities were not totally abolished. the residual bioactivities (not inhibited by cr-1409) correlated with plasma bile acid concentrations. the inhibitable cck bioactivities correlated with plasma cck levels obtained by radioimmunoassay. although the bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini has several advantages for measuring plasma cck, this method overestimates cck bioactivities in patients with high plasma bile acid concentrations.
arterial vasodilator effects of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist amlodipine alone and in combination with verapamil in systemic hypertension. the arterial vasodilator properties of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist amlodipine were compared with the effects of vascular muscle cyclic guanosine monophosphate production by sodium nitroprusside and with the effects of a combined infusion of amlodipine and the nondihydropyridine calcium antagonist verapamil in 8 untreated patients with primary hypertension. arterial vasodilation was assessed by measurement of changes of forearm blood flow by mercury in silastic strain-gauge plethysmography during brachial artery drug infusions. forearm blood flow increased during amlodipine infusions (0.4 to 45 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue) from 2.9 +/- 1.7 to a maximum of 23.6 +/- 7.6 ml/min/100 ml (687%), while sodium nitroprusside caused an increase from 3.0 +/- 1.8 to 16.2 +/- 5.4 ml/min/100 ml (449%), attesting to the importance of transmembrane calcium influx for the maintenance of vascular tone. the addition of verapamil 40 micrograms/min/100 ml to an infusion of amlodipine 44.5 micrograms/min/100 ml resulted in a further increase of forearm blood flow, from 23.6 +/- 7.6 to 34.4 +/- 9.8 ml/min/100 ml (p less than 0.05). the precise mechanisms of this finding have yet to be elucidated but may be due to interactions of the effects of the binding of these 2 chemically and pharmacologically different calcium antagonists to distinct binding sites at calcium channels. the clinical relevance of this observation for the treatment of coronary artery disease and systemic hypertension needs further study.
teflon versus thyroplasty versus nerve transfer: a comparison. surgical rehabilitation of the paralyzed larynx is currently performed by teflon injection, thyroplasty, and reinnervation techniques. proponents of the two newer techniques maintain that they are preferred to teflon injection because superior phonatory quality is achievable. this paper was written in an attempt to dissect the issues regarding this question. teflon remains the quickest and least expensive procedure, but further experience with stroboscopic and other voice analyses reveals that the other procedures demonstrate some superiority in phonatory quality over teflon. in this author's hands, the nerve transfer offers the best opportunity to achieve a normal phonatory voice. in addition, it is the only one of the three procedures that leaves the vocal cord entirely undisturbed--important in the event one of the other two procedures becomes necessary.
mapping of the locus for x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria (barth syndrome) to xq28. x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria is clinically characterized by congenital dilated cardiomyopathy, skeletal myopathy, recurrent bacterial infections, and growth retardation. we analyzed linkage between the disease locus and x-chromosomal markers in a family with seven carriers, four patients, and eight unaffected sons of carriers. highest lod scores obtained by two-point linkage analysis were 2.70 for st14.1 (dxs52, taqi) at a recombination fraction of zero and 2.53 for cpx67 (dxs134) at a recombination fraction of zero. multipoint linkage analysis resulted in a maximum lod score of 5.24 at the position of st35.691 (dxs305). the most distal recombination detected in this family was located between the markers ii-10 (dxs466) and dx13 (dxs15). these data indicate the location of the mutated gene at xq28.
focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. twenty-four patients underwent biopsy or resection of the liver for focal nodular hyperplasia (fnh) at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center from 1978 to 1988. twenty-two of the patients were women. the mean age was 35 years. a history of antecedent oral contraceptive or conjugated estrogen (premarin) use was obtained in 18 of 21 women. there were two men, aged 26 and 37 years; neither gave a history of hormone use. most of the tumors were solitary (22 of 24) and located in the left lobe of the liver (17 of 22). fifteen of the patients had a prior or simultaneous malignant lesion and six had other benign tumors. most of the tumors were resected with a wedge or subsegment of liver (13 of 24). four patients underwent segmentectomy and five required lobectomy for removal of the tumors. two patients had an intraoperative biopsy only. the patients in whom the tumor was diagnosed preoperatively underwent computed tomography and arteriography routinely. scintigraphy of the liver with sulfur colloid was obtained in only three patients, despite its distinct potential for nonoperative diagnosis of fnh.
inactivation of human alpha-globin gene expression by a de novo deletion located upstream of the alpha-globin gene cluster. synthesis of normal human hemoglobin a, alpha 2 beta 2, is based upon balanced expression of genes in the alpha-globin gene cluster on chromosome 16 and the beta-globin gene cluster on chromosome 11. full levels of erythroid-specific activation of the beta-globin cluster depend on sequences located at a considerable distance 5' to the beta-globin gene, referred to as the locus-activating or dominant control region. the existence of an analogous element(s) upstream of the alpha-globin cluster has been suggested from observations on naturally occurring deletions and experimental studies. we have identified an individual with alpha-thalassemia in whom structurally normal alpha-globin genes have been inactivated in cis by a discrete de novo 35-kilobase deletion located approximately 30 kilobases 5' from the alpha-globin gene cluster. we conclude that this deletion inactivates expression of the alpha-globin genes by removing one or more of the previously identified upstream regulatory sequences that are critical to expression of the alpha-globin genes.
maternal and uteroplacental hemodynamic effects of chronic captopril in the hypertensive, term-pregnant rat. the chronic effects of captopril on maternal hemodynamics and organ perfusion were investigated in 10 untreated and 10 captopril-treated pregnant spontaneously hypertensive rats by means of the radioactive-labeled microsphere technique. the normal decrease in blood pressure during gestation was prevented by reduction of litter size to two conceptuses on day 7 of gestation. captopril (approximately 10 mg/kg/day) or drug vehicle (50% ethyl alcohol) was administered intraperitoneally by an osmotic pump from day 7 to 21. at term mean arterial pressure was 23% lower in the captopril-treated group as the result of a 29% decrease in total peripheral resistance without a significant change in cardiac output. the decrease in total peripheral resistance was primarily caused by a decline in splanchnic and skin resistances. maternal organ and uteroplacental perfusion were not significantly altered. we conclude that administration of captopril during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy in the hypertensive rat effectively lowers maternal blood pressure without adverse effects on organ and uteroplacental perfusion.
critical care transportation medicine: new concepts in pretransport stabilization of the critically ill patient. regionalization of health care for trauma has become commonplace, and the same concept for critically ill medical/surgical patients is developing. recent evidence suggests that current stabilization measures used by transport teams can be inadequate for this critically ill patient population. in trauma, speed has been considered a necessity to get the patient to a facility which cannot be carried out to the field, eg, an operating room. for acute medical illnesses, critical care transport teams can bring intensive care technology to the patient. accumulating evidence supports the premise that speed of transport is not as important as stabilization before transport, knowledge of hemodynamics during transport, and early use of critical care monitoring systems. other reports identify the need for initial evaluation and stabilization of critically ill patients by physicians at the critical care level of expertise. accordingly, critical care transportation teams have evolved, creating new notions of pretransport stabilization not applicable to previous transport systems.
coronary artery pattern and outcome of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries. a successful outcome of an arterial switch operation (aso) for dextro-transposition of the great arteries (d-tga) depends in large part on the transfer of the coronary arteries to the neoaorta without distortion or narrowing. however, the origins and distribution of the coronary arteries are quite variable in d-tga; therefore, the entire experience with aso at the children's hospital in boston was reviewed. from 1983 through november 1989, 314 patients underwent surgery for d-tga with the intent to perform an aso. an aso was actually performed in 290 patients, and 20 patients died, with 12 deaths (4.2%) clearly related to problems with the coronary arteries (ca deaths). the aso was aborted to a senning operation in 24 patients (7.6%), primarily due to coronary anatomy. eight coronary patterns were identified and related to the outcome of the aso. in 182 patients with the "usual" coronary pattern for d-tga (i.e., anterior descending and circumflex arteries from the left sinus and right coronary artery from the right sinus), five ca deaths occurred, and two patients had senning operations. sixty-seven patients had right coronary and circumflex arteries from the right sinus and anterior descending arteries from the left sinus. three ca deaths occurred, and one patient had a senning operation. single right coronary artery was found in 14; 12 had asos with three ca deaths (25%); and two had senning operations. one late death was due to diffuse narrowing of the single right coronary artery. single left coronary artery occurred in 11 patients, and seven had aso with no early but one late "sudden" death, whereas four had senning operations.
recurrent subacute torsion: prospective study of effects on testicular morphology and function. a prospective study was done on 43 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of recurrent subacute testicular torsion. all patients underwent full examination, hormonal assays and seminal fluid analysis before scrotal exploration, bilateral testicular biopsy and fixation. seminal fluid analysis and hormonal assays were repeated 3 months postoperatively. of the patients 36 were cured of recurrent pain, 35 of whom had a horizontally lying testis. no hormonal abnormalities were found preoperatively or postoperatively. three patients had abnormal seminal fluid analysis. testicular biopsies, including johnsen scores, were abnormal in these 3 patients and normal in the other 33. it is concluded that patients with recurrent subacute torsion can be identified accurately and treated satisfactorily. there is little evidence that these patients suffer testicular damage as a result of this subacute torsion or that any pre-existing cellular abnormality exists to explain the oligospermia that frequently is seen in patients who have acute testicular torsion.
ichthyosis, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, impaired neutrophil chemotaxis, growth retardation, and metaphyseal dysplasia (shwachman syndrome). report of a case with extensive skin lesions (clinical, histological, and ultrastructural findings). the shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, growth retardation, and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia. clinical, morphological, and ultrastructural studies, as well as hair analysis, were performed in a patient with shwachman's syndrome and severe ichthyosis. clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities. the hair was scanty and short on the scalp, in the eyelashes, and in the eyebrows. the nails were hyperkeratotic. morphologic findings were slight, regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis. the granular layer was thickened. the papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration. the most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes. hair analysis revealed no abnormalities; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal.
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the incidence, clinical characteristics, and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide (vm-26), etoposide (vp-16), or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy. fifty (46%) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions. the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52% (95% confidence limits, 41% and 63%) for vm-26, compared with 34% (95% confidence limits, 24% and 44%) for vp-16. the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose. this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16. all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification, characterized by urticaria, angioedema, flushing, rashes, or hypotension, and 86% of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria. there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication, and no deaths occurred. the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported, but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity.
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities. current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist. placental vascular lesions, placental tumors, and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management. an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location, size, echogenicity, and number is proposed. repeated ultrasonographic examination, together with biologic investigations, is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance.
morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation. repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation. these aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations. specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection. histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients (93%), foreign body reaction in 11 patients (78%), and intimal thickening in 3 patients (21%). the three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms. on the basis of these results, we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms.
the effect of long-acting somatostatin analogue on enzyme changes after endoscopic pancreatography. the effect of the long-acting somatostatin analogue, octreotide acetate (sandostatin) on enzyme elevation after endoscopic pancreatography was studied in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial. sixty-three consecutive patients undergoing ercp were randomly allocated to two group. in the control group, 34 patients received isotonic sodium-chloride, and in the treated group 29 patients received 0.1 mg of octreotide acetate subcutaneously before the pancreatography. after the endoscopy, amylase levels increased to pathological range in 15 of the controls and in 3 of the treated patients, whereas lipase levels showed a pathological rise in 17 of the controls and in 5 of the treated patients. a significant difference (p less than 0.01) was observed in the amylase and lipase changes between the two groups at 90 and 180 min after pancreatography. the enzyme levels showed at 90 min, mean +/- sd amylase: controls 540 +/- 185 units/liter, treated patients 261 +/- 108 units/liter; lipase: controls 304 +/- 98 units/liter, treated patients 198 +/- 88 units/liter. these findings suggest that the use of long-acting somatostatin analogue ameliorates the enzyme increases in the serum after endoscopic pancreatography.
dual task performance and processing resources in normal subjects and patients with parkinson's disease. in recent years, there has been a growing consensus among investigators that the presence or absence of external cues guiding behaviour and attention is an important factor in determining whether or not deficits are found in patients with parkinson's disease (pd). in an earlier study, the authors suggested that the pattern of impaired and intact performance could be explained in terms of differential resource demands of the tasks, combined with depleted levels of central processing resources in pd patients. two experiments are reported, both employing dual-task paradigms. the first assessed, in normal subjects, the relative processing demands of a cued and an uncued version of the stroop task. the results supported the proposal that the noncued task made greater demands on the subject's limited processing resources. further, performing a resource demanding secondary task concurrently with the stroop test produced, in normal subjects, the same pattern of impaired performance as that reported previously in pd patients. in the second experiment the same dual-task paradigm was employed with a group of pd patients and normal aged-matched controls. only the patients showed an increase in reaction time on the stroop task when performing a resource demanding secondary task. the patients also showed an interfering effect with concurrent foot tapping but not with an articulatory suppression task. the results were taken to support the hypothesis that pd patients have depleted central processing resources. in considering the present data, alternative explanations for the results are considered, in particular the possibility that they represent a deficit in switching processing resources between two tasks as the combined demands outweigh available resources.
treatment of fulminant hepatic failure with insulin and glucagon. a randomized, controlled trial. insulin and glucagon are among the therapeutic modalities that have been investigated in the treatment of fulminant hepatic failure (fhf). we have completed a randomized, controlled trial of insulin and glucagon in 38 patients with fhf from either viral or toxin exposure. the control and treatment groups consisted of 21 and 17 patients, respectively, and did not differ significantly in etiology or admission laboratory values. mortality was not significantly different between control and treatment groups and was 67% and 82%, respectively. time from randomization to death or discharge was not significantly different between the two groups. peak levels of alpha-fetoprotein were statistically higher in survivors than in nonsurvivors (p less than 0.01). we conclude that even though a type-2 error may exist, the combination of insulin and glucagon is not useful in the treatment of fhf.
manual stretch: effect on finger movement control and force control in stroke subjects with spastic extrinsic finger flexor muscles. this study evaluated the effects of manual stretch of extrinsic finger flexor muscles on finger extension movement control and force control in 16 spastic hemiparetic subjects. these subjects were randomly divided into a control group and an experimental group. a group of able-bodied subjects also participated. a joint-movement tracking test (jmtt) quantified control of active finger extension movement at the metacarpophalangeal joint of the index finger within the available range of active movement, and a force tracking test (ftt) quantified control of isometric finger extension force at the same joint within the subject's available force range. electromyographic activity was monitored in the extensor digitorum and flexor digitorum superficialis muscles during both tracking tests. manual stretch was applied to the extrinsic finger flexor muscles of the experimental group between the pretest and posttest tracking tests. the jmtt performances of both control (p less than .025) and experimental (p less than .05) groups were significantly subnormal on the pretest as were ftt performances of controls (p less than .01) and study subjects (p less than .03). the jmtt improvement on posttest was significantly greater (p less than .05) in subjects than in controls. however, the change in ftt performance was not significantly different between the two groups. manual stretch treatment, properly applied to extrinsic finger flexor muscles, is an effective method of temporarily improving the control of finger extension movement in spastic hemiparetic subjects.
epidermoid tumors of the 4th ventricle: report of seven cases. epidermoid tumors occur very rarely in the 4th ventricle. we discuss the history, clinical course, and the surgical results for seven patients. one patient had a remittal of symptoms, probably due to the emergence of the tumor from the 4th ventricle into the cisterna magna. total removal of the capsule was possible only in the youngest patient. at present, four patients (mean follow-up, 6 years) enjoy good general and neurological health.
artificial urinary sphincter insertion in congenital neuropathic bladder. a series of 44 patients with neuropathic bladder dysfunction due to congenital myelodysplasia underwent implantation of an artificial urinary sphincter (aus); in 26 patients a reconstructive procedure was performed at the same time. five patients who initially had aus implantation alone developed detrusor hyper-reflexia and required a clam cystoplasty. forty patients (90%) are continent, 2 are occasionally damp and 2 are wet and awaiting further surgery; 66% of patients who underwent aus insertion and reconstruction were found to have significant residual urine and they perform intermittent self-catheterisation (isc). in patients with a good bladder capacity and normal compliance and detrusor hyper-reflexia controlled by anticholinergic drugs, cystoplasty is not necessary at the time of aus insertion.
compressive neuropathy of spinal nerve roots. a mechanical or biological problem? pathophysiologically, nerve root pain production is a complex issue. for many years, mechanical compression has been regarded as the sole cause for such pain. there are indications, however, that other factors, such as intraneural inflammation, may be of importance in this context. in this article, four cases are presented in which nerve root related pain gradually resolved without any proven change in the mechanical deformation of the involved nerve root. the data presented here suggest that mechanical compression, per se, may not always be the sole cause of radicular pain and dysfunction. these findings suggest that improvement is needed in our understanding of the pathophysiology of nerve root compression and inflammation.
effects of common illnesses on infants' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in huascar (lima), peru. to assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake, 131 peruvian infants were observed longitudinally. home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly, and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations. mean (+/- sd) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 +/- 128 kcal/d (92.4 +/- 26.5 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 +/- 193 kcal/d (77.7 +/- 25.7 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged greater than 180 d. statistical models controlling for infant age, season of the year, and individual showed significant 5-6% decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever. there were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding, total suckling time, or amount of breast-milk energy consumed. by contrast, energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30% during diarrhea and fever, and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods.
a giant renal artery aneurysm diagnosed post partum. we report a case of a 5.8 cm. right renal artery aneurysm diagnosed intact 8 weeks post partum. rupture of a renal arterial aneurysm during pregnancy is a rare but well described catastrophic event. there are no previous reports of an intact renal artery aneurysm diagnosed either ante partum or post partum. to our knowledge, this also represents the largest reported renal artery aneurysm. the aneurysm was repaired successfully with kidney salvage and closure of the fistulous connection to the renal vein.
respiratory input impedance in anesthetized paralyzed patients. respiratory impedance (zrs) was measured between 0.25 and 32 hz in seven anesthetized and paralyzed patients by applying forced oscillation of low amplitude at the inlet of the endotracheal tube. effective respiratory resistance (rrs; in cmh2o.l-1.s) fell sharply from 6.2 +/- 2.1 (sd) at 0.25 hz to 2.3 +/- 0.6 at 2 hz. from then on, rrs decreased slightly with frequency down to 1.5 +/- 0.5 at 32 hz. respiratory reactance (xrs; in cmh2o.l-1.s) was -22.2 +/- 5.9 at 0.25 hz and reached zero at approximately 14 hz and 2.3 +/- 0.8 at 32 hz. effective respiratory elastance (ers = -2pi x frequency x xrs; in cmh2o/1) was 34.8 +/- 9.2 at 0.25 hz and increased markedly with frequency up to 44.2 +/- 8.6 at 2 hz. we interpreted zrs data in terms of a t network mechanical model. we represented the proximal branch by central airway resistance and inertance. the shunt pathway accounted for bronchial distensibility and alveolar gas compressibility. the distal branch included a newtonian resistance component for tissues and peripheral airways and a viscoelastic component for tissues. when the viscoelastic component was represented by a kelvin body as in the model of bates et al. (j. appl. physiol. 61: 873-880, 1986), a good fit was obtained over the entire frequency range, and reasonable values of parameters were estimated. the strong frequency dependence of rrs and ers observed below 2 hz in our anesthetized paralyzed patients could be mainly interpreted in terms of tissue viscoelasticity. nevertheless, the high ers we found with low volume excursions suggests that tissues also exhibit plasticlike properties.
west syndrome associated with hyperlexia. two patients are reported with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia. they had peculiar linguistic and psychosocial development and autistic behavior, yet began to read japanese and chinese characters, numbers, roman alphabet letters, and trademark letters at 3 years of age. neuropsychologic, electroencephalographic, and radiologic studies were performed at 11 years of age in patient 1 and at 10 years of age in patient 2. although they were able to read fluently with correct intonation, their comprehension was significantly impaired. the neuropsychologic evaluation of both patients demonstrated selective, excellent ability in auditory memory in contrast to impairment of associational abilities, visual retention, and visual constructional abilities. these findings suggest that the functions in the nondominant hemisphere were also impaired. although children with west syndrome frequently have associated mental retardation, patients with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia have never been reported. a neuropsychologic investigation of epileptic children with mental retardation is necessary for the detection of hyperlexia.
igd immune complex vasculitis in a patient with hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever. we describe a 27-year-old dutch woman with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever syndrome. during febrile attacks she occasionally presented with skin lesions on the distal parts of her upper and lower extremities, with the histologic picture of a leukocytoclastic vasculitis. clear perivascular deposits of igd and c3 were presented in early lesional skin on immunofluorescence investigation. circulating igd immune complexes were demonstrated on several occasions, both during and in between clinical attacks. these findings are consistent with an igd immune complex-mediated pathogenesis for the skin lesions. in 10 patients with other forms of immune complex vasculitis of the skin, minimal perivascular deposits of igd were found in four cases. in these cases, however, igd was never found as the solitary immunoglobulin class.
course of diabetic retinopathy following cataract surgery five patients with mild to moderate retinopathy to both eyes underwent complication-free cataract surgery in one eye. within three months of surgery deterioration of the retinopathy was observed in the operated eye only. in four patients there was an increase of intraretinal haemorrhages and hard exudates, accompanied by clinically significant macular oedema manifested as retinal thickening and extensive fluorescein leakage from both the macular and the peripapillary capillary networks. of these four patients one also developed retinal ischaemia, evident ophthalmoscopically by flame-shaped haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots and angiographically by areas of capillary non-perfusion. the fifth patient showed proliferation of new blood vessels and vitreous haemorrhage. diabetic patients scheduled for cataract surgery should undergo a thorough preoperative evaluation of any existing retinopathy. postoperatively they should be followed up at close intervals so that any progression of retinopathy can be promptly detected and considered for laser treatment.
dexamethasone increases plasma levels of albendazole. therapy of neurocysticercosis with cysticidal drugs is frequently complicated by the exacerbation of symptoms that follows the inflammation triggered by the acute destruction of cysticerci. treatment of such adverse reactions with dexamethasone is highly effective. however, it has been shown that dexamethasone lowers the plasma levels of praziquantel, thus reducing its cysticidal efficacy. we measured plasma levels of albendazole, another strong cysticidal drug, when dexamethasone was given simultaneously. we found that dexamethasone increased the plasma levels of albendazole by about 50% (p less than 0.002); hence, it seems that cysticercosis and the ensuing inflammation can be treated simultaneously with albendazole and dexamethasone without diminishing the efficacy of the cysticidal drug.
sensitivity of urinary quantitative immunocytology with monoclonal antibody 486 p3/12 in 241 unselected patients with bladder carcinoma. we investigated the sensitivity of quantitative immunocytology with our monoclonal antibody 486 p3/12 in 241 unselected patients with transitional cell carcinoma. immunocytology yielded a sensitivity of 91.8%, 89.4% and 92.9% for grade 1, 2 and 3 tumors, respectively. standard cytology was positive in 59.2%, 63.8% and 84.7%, respectively. deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry, used in the first 69 patients, was positive in only 27.7%, 48.6% and 57.1%, respectively.
cutaneous malignant melanoma in rochester, minnesota: trends in incidence and survivorship, 1950 through 1985 in rochester, minnesota, 107 incidence cases of cutaneous malignant melanoma (in 46 male and 61 female patients) were diagnosed during the years 1950 through 1985. overall crude incidence rates were 6.0 and 6.6 per 100,000 males and females, respectively. evaluation of trends in 9-year periods showed that the rates increased from 3.2 to 8.9 for males (p = 0.015) and from 4.4 to 11.7 for females (p less than 0.001). age-specific rates suggested that the highest incidence occurs in the age-groups 50 to 59 years and 70 years or older for males and 40 to 49 years and 70 years or older for females. lesions were most common in the head and neck area among males (p = 0.044) and on the lower extremities among females (p = 0.018). the most frequent histologic type was superficial spreading melanoma (61%). five-year survival was diminished overall for patients with cutaneous malignant melanoma--0.72 in comparison with 0.88 expected for the general population. statistically significant risk factors for survival were depth of invasion of the lesion (clark level), thickness of the lesion, histologic type, and age of the patient.
a clinicopathologic study of the eyes in familial adenomatous polyposis with extracolonic manifestations (gardner's syndrome). the eyes of a 51-year-old woman with familial adenomatous polyposis and extracolonic manifestations (gardner's syndrome) were obtained postmortem and studied by light microscopy and by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. we found a generalized abnormality in melanogenesis of the retinal pigment epithelium and at least three types of pigmented lesions. the histologic findings in one type of lesion were consistent with congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium or benign pigmented nevus of the retinal pigment epithelium. the other two types of lesion were most consistent with hamartomatous malformations of the retinal pigment epithelium featuring cellular hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and rarely retinal invasion and formation of a minute mushroom-shaped tumor. these histopathologic findings indicate a generalized effect of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene on the retinal pigment epithelium. this oncogene, which is responsible for tumor formation in the gastrointestinal tract, soft tissues, bone, and other locations in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, also leads to a generalized defect in melanogenesis and focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium.
leukocyte counts and activation in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats the etiology for the progressive organ injury in hypertension is largely speculative. recent studies have shown that leukocytes play a key role in several cardiovascular diseases. as an initial step toward investigating the role of leukocytes in hypertension, we measured leukocyte counts and spontaneous activation of granulocytes of freshly drawn unseparated blood samples in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in their normotensive counterpart, wistar-kyoto rats. the animals were derived from one breeder in the united states and from two breeders in europe. total leukocyte counts in young, mature, and old hypertensive rats were 50-100% above the controls. the number of granulocytes in mature and old spontaneously hypertensive rats in more than 100% elevated compared with control rats. in young hypertensive rats the mean granulocyte count was only slightly elevated. the number of spontaneously activated granulocytes, as detected by the nitroblue tetrazolium reduction, increases with age in both species; in mature spontaneously hypertensive rats, it is more than 300% above the values in the controls. furthermore, in mature hypertensive rats the number of monocytes, activated monocytes, and the lymphocyte count are also significantly elevated over the values in the normotensive controls. it is proposed that these elevated leukocyte counts may constitute an enhanced risk for organ injury in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in lactation and in umbilical cord blood. parathyroid hormone-related peptide (pthrp) is expressed in lactating rat mammary glands after suckling, as a result of increases in prolactin rather than suckling per se. in addition, pthrp produced in the fetal parathyroid glands and placenta may be responsible for stimulation of placental calcium transport. in the current study, we used a radioimmunoassay for human pthrp to measure levels of the peptide in (1) human breast milk, cow's milk, and two infant formulas; (2) sequential plasma samples in prepartum and postpartum lactating women; (3) women with pathologic hyperprolactinemia; and (4) human umbilical cord blood. in normal subjects, plasma pthrp levels ranged from less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter. in contrast, human breast milk contained substantially increased levels of immunoreactive pthrp. similar elevations were found in cow's milk and in one infant formula. column chromatography of breast milk demonstrated that pthrp immunoreactivity included a region of adenylate cyclase stimulating activity, consistent with the presence of biologically active pthrp. plasma prepartum pthrp values did not differ from corresponding postpartum values in lactating women. women with hyperprolactinemia had a mean plasma pthrp value in the high-normal range. umbilical cord blood had considerably suppressed parathyroid hormone values but pthrp levels that were indistinguishable from those in normal human plasma. thus, pthrp is present in high concentrations in breast milk but apparently does not gain access to the maternal circulation in significant amounts. in addition, women with pathologic hyperprolactinemia seem not to have increased levels of circulating pthrp.
continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs for filling and lining the post-exenteration pelvis. pelvic exenteration has a high complication rate due, in large part, to the extensive raw surfaces and dead space it creates. numerous techniques have been used to control this space and line these surfaces, but none, to date, has proven to be a reliable solution. we investigated the use of continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs as a new "flap" to fill and line the pelvis in 17 patients, and found that our historical complication rate of 44% for pelvic exenteration was reduced to 18%. these reservoirs appear to be an improved method of managing the post-exenteration pelvis.
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil. an unusual complication of a hickman catheter. venous access devices (vad) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer. multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad. the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium, resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-fu). pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed, but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade. she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction.
long-term cardiopulmonary bypass by peripheral cannulation in a model of total heart failure. the decompression of the left heart through a percutaneous helical spring positioned within the lumen of the tricuspid and pulmonary artery valves. we performed long-term closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass in an animal model of total heart failure (induced ventricular fibrillation). the extracorporeal system included a venous reservoir, a roller pump, a membrane lung, and a blood pulsator system. we cannulated the right external jugular vein for venous drainage and the right subclavian artery for arterial return. to decompress the left heart we passed by percutaneous cannulation a special helical spring mounted on a swan-ganz catheter (baxter edwards divisions, irvine, calif.) and positioned it to rest within the pulmonary artery and tricuspid valves, which rendered them partly incompetent. after induced ventricular fibrillation, blood flow was raised to keep the central venous pressure at baseline values. the lungs were ventilated with 5% carbon dioxide in room air. during bypass, mean pulmonary artery pressure was 10.0 +/- 1.7 mm hg, mean wedge pressure 11.9 +/- 1.8 mm hg, and mean blood pressure 95.2 +/- 5.6 mm hg. after 2 days (four animals) and 3 days (two animals) the hearts were defibrillated. there was immediate ejection from both sides of the heart. all sheep were weaned from bypass within 29 +/- 11 minutes and their lungs were ventilated with room air within 42 +/- 34 minutes. at autopsy hearts and lungs grossly appeared normal. we conclude that the percutaneous helical spring resting within right heart valves provided excellent decompression throughout the study, with full recovery of heart and lung function on defibrillation.
improved water and sodium absorption from oral rehydration solutions based on rice syrup in a rat model of osmotic diarrhea. rice syrup solids, rice protein, and casein hydrolysate were added to experimental oral rehydration solutions in various combinations and tested in a rat intestinal perfusion system. chronic osmotic diarrhea was induced in juvenile rats by supplying the cathartic agents, magnesium citrate and phenolphthalein, in their drinking water for 1 week. the experimental oral rehydration solutions were compared with standard oral rehydration solutions containing 20 gm/l or 30 gm/l of glucose and with each other to determine if there were significant differences in net water, sodium, or potassium absorption. an oral rehydration solution containing 30 gm/l of rice syrup solids had a net water absorption rate significantly higher than that of the standard 20 gm/l glucose-based oral rehydration solution (2.1 +/- 0.62 versus 1.5 +/- 0.48 microliters/[min x cm], p less than 0.05). casein hydrolysate did not significantly affect net water absorption. however, combinations of 30 gm/l rice syrup solids and 5 gm/l casein hydrolysate significantly increased (p less than 0.05) net sodium and potassium absorption compared with the 20 gm/l glucose-based oral rehydration solution but not versus rice syrup solids alone. oral rehydration solutions containing 30 gm/l rice syrup solids plus 5 gm/l rice protein, and 30 gm/l rice syrup solids plus 5 gm/l casein hydrolysate, had net water absorption rates significantly higher than the rate of a 30 gm/l glucose-based oral rehydration solution (2.5 +/- 0.36 and 2.4 +/- 0.38, respectively, versus 0.87 +/- 0.40 microliters/[min x cm], p less than 0.05). rice protein and casein hydrolysate, however, did not significantly affect net water, sodium, or potassium absorption when added to rice protein glucose-based oral rehydration solutions. an inverse correlation between osmolality and net water absorption was observed (r = -0.653, p less than 0.02). the data suggest that substitution of rice syrup solids for glucose in oral rehydration solutions will improve water absorption and that rice syrup solids in combination with protein hydrolysates may, in addition, promote better sodium and potassium uptake.
adjunctive surgery after chemotherapy for nonseminomatous germ cell tumors: recommendations for patient selection. one hundred eighty-five patients who underwent surgery within 6 months of completing chemotherapy were identified from 360 patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (nsgct) treated with memorial hospital front-line cisplatin- or carboplatin-based combination chemotherapy protocols between 1979 and 1988. clinical, pathologic, and radiologic features were correlated with the pathologic findings at surgery. the size of a residual retroperitoneal mass, the degree of shrinkage that occurred with chemotherapy, and the presence of teratomatous elements in pretreatment pathology specimens were each correlated with the pathologic findings of retroperitoneal resections after chemotherapy. multivariable logistic regression analysis of those undergoing retroperitoneal resections identified the size and shrinkage of the residual mass and the prechemotherapy lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) and alphafetoprotein (afp) levels as the best predictors of finding only necrotic debris. no factors could be found, however, that could selectively exclude patients who had residual viable malignancy or teratoma in the retroperitoneum. of 39 patients with residual retroperitoneal masses measuring less than or equal to 1.5 cm in maximal diameter, three had residual malignancy and five had teratoma resected. no factors were identified for residual lung or mediastinal masses that could be used to select a group of patients who could safely avoid surgery. if serum markers have normalized after chemotherapy for nsgct, resection of all residual abnormalities on imaging studies of the retroperitoneum, lungs, and mediastinum is recommended. in addition, retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (rplnd) is recommended for all patients with initial bulky metastases (greater than or equal to 3 cm in diameter) in the retroperitoneum, irrespective of the findings of postchemotherapy computed tomography (ct).
remission induction and continuation therapy in children with their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia. a pediatric oncology group study. between january 1979 and april 1983, 113 children undergoing their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia (all) at any site were registered in pediatric oncology group study 7834; 98 were eligible and evaluable. in addition to radiotherapy administered to sites of local relapse, induction consisted of vincristine, doxorubicin, and prednisone (vap) chemotherapy. continuation therapy consisted of triple-drug intrathecal therapy and regimens of 6-thioguanine and cytarabine alternating with vincristine, prednisone, cyclophosphamide, and cytarabine. randomization in continuation was between vap pulses or no pulse, regardless of the site of relapse. this report provides long-term follow-up of these patients. thirty-two of 39 children with bone marrow involvement achieved a complete response (cr). only one of these is alive in an unmaintained remission, a child who did not have an initial cr. thirty-four of 36 evaluable children with central nervous system involvement as the site of relapse achieved cr. of these ten are alive; eight are in continuing cr. nineteen of 20 boys with testicular relapse achieved cr. of these, 14 are still alive and not receiving therapy, although only one half received treatment in compliance with the protocol described. these results illustrate the possibility of cure of patients who have relapsed with all when it is (1) confined to a meningeal or gonadal site and (2) treated vigorously with radiotherapy and a new regimen of systemic chemotherapy. the results reconfirm the need to prevent an initial relapse at any site.
l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. we describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias, arthralgias and paresthesias. the physical findings consist of muscle tenderness, neuropathies, rash, peripheral and periorbital edema. electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3. skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema, inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin, whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle. seven patients were treated with prednisone; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted.
unruptured intracranial aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations: frequency of intracranial hemorrhage and relationship of lesions. among 91 patients with unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations (avm's), 16 patients had 26 unruptured intracranial saccular aneurysms. an actuarial analysis showed the risk of intracranial hemorrhage among patients with coexisting aneurysm and avm to be 7% per year at 5 years following diagnosis compared to 1.7% for patients with avm alone. the difference in length of survival free of hemorrhage was significant (log-rank, p less than 0.0007). several angiographic and clinical parameters were investigated to better understand the relationship of these lesions. the aneurysms occurred in similar percentages in patients with small, medium, and large avm's. twenty-five aneurysms were on arteries feeding the malformation system, almost equally distributed proximally and distally. eleven aneurysms were atypical in location, and all arose from primary or secondary branch feeders to the malformation; 24 were on enlarged feeding arteries. eleven (16%) of the 67 patients with high-flow avm's had associated aneurysms, compared with five (21%) of the 24 patients with low-flow avm's. four (16%) of 25 low-shunt malformations and 12 (18%) of 65 high-shunt malformations had associated aneurysms. all five aneurysms associated with low-shunt malformations were on a direct arterial feeder of the malformation. these data suggest that the intracranial avm's predispose to aneurysm formation within avm feeding systems and that the mechanism is not simply based upon the high blood flow or high arteriovenous shunt in these systems.
peripheral arterial occlusive disease: prospective comparison of mr angiography and color duplex us with conventional angiography. conventional angiography, two-dimensional inflow magnetic resonance (mr) angiography, and color duplex ultrasound (us) were performed on 12 patients in a blinded, prospective study. the ability to grade arterial lesions and plan revascularization interventions were compared. arterial lesions were categorized as nonsignificant (0%-49% diameter reduction) or significant (50%-100% diameter reduction). determination of nonsignificant and significant lesions with mr angiography was in agreement with that at conventional angiography in 100 of 140 lesions (71%). agreement between results of conventional angiography and color duplex us occurred with 114 of 123 infrainguinal lesions (93%). twenty-one vascular interventions were planned by using conventional angiography; there was agreement with color duplex us in 11 cases and mr angiography in five. color duplex us performed well in the assessment of infrainguinal disease but was limited in the evaluation of iliac segments because of nonvisualization. the iliac region was visualized in more patients with mr angiography than with color duplex us, but image quality with mr angiography was inconsistent. strategies to improve mr angiography of the peripheral vasculature merit further study.
identification and characterization of a regulated promoter element in the epidermal growth factor receptor gene. we have identified a 36-base-pair proximal element (-112 to -77 relative to the aug translation initiation codon) in the epidermal growth factor receptor 5' region that functions as a promoter; mediates inductive responses to epidermal growth factor, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, and cyclic amp; and acts in an orientation-independent manner. this region functions as an enhancer when transferred to a heterologous promoter containing a tata box. mutations within the 36-base-pair region alter function as assayed by reporter gene expression in recipient cells. a protein has been identified that demonstrates appropriate binding specificity to mutant dna sequences that correlates with promoter activity observed in vivo. on the basis of dna binding characteristics and size, the identified protein appears distinct from several previously identified transcription factors known to bind to g+c-rich regions.
bacterial meningitis in the united states, 1986: report of a multistate surveillance study. the bacterial meningitis study group. a prospective, laboratory-based surveillance project obtained accurate data on meningitis in a population of 34 million people during 1986. haemophilus influenzae was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis (45%), followed by streptococcus pneumoniae (18%), and neisseria meningitidis (14%). rates of h. influenzae meningitis varied significantly by region, from 1.9/100,000 in new jersey to 4.0/100,000 in washington state. the overall case fatality rates for meningitis were lower than those reported in several studies from the early 1970s, suggesting that improvements in early detection and antibiotic treatment may have occurred since that time. concurrent surveillance was also performed for all invasive disease due to the five most common causes of bacterial meningitis. serotypes of group b streptococcus other than type iii caused more than half of neonatal group b streptococcal disease and mortality, suggesting that an optimal vaccine preparation must be multivalent. of the organisms evaluated, group b streptococcus was the second most common cause of invasive disease in persons greater than 5 years old.
adrenergic control of the internal anal sphincter is abnormal in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence. there is histological and functional evidence that the internal anal sphincter is abnormal in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence. the in vitro responsiveness of the internal anal sphincter to noradrenaline (an important sympathetic neurotransmitter) and electrical field stimulation (known to stimulate the intrinsic innervation) has been studied. muscle strips from eight patients with incontinence undergoing postanal repair and five controls undergoing resection for low rectal carcinoma were studied. the contraction-response curves for noradrenaline were significantly different, and the ec50, the concentration required to produce 50 per cent of maximum contraction, was higher in incontinent patients (p less than 0.001). electrical field stimulation produced initial contractions in four of the control group which were blocked by phentolamine. this contraction was not present in the incontinent patients (p less than 0.01). these results indicate an abnormality in the adrenergic innervation of the internal anal sphincter in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence.
effect of omeprazole and high doses of ranitidine on gastric acidity and gastroesophageal reflux in patients with moderate-severe esophagitis thirty to fifty percent of patients with reflux esophagitis fail to heal after treatment with conventional doses of h2-receptor antagonists, whereas omeprazole administration induces more than 90% healing. to investigate the effect of omeprazole and higher-than-presently-recommended doses of h2-blockers, we evaluated gastric acidity and gastroesophageal reflux in 17 patients with severe-moderate esophagitis before and after treatment with 300 mg ranitidine twice daily or 20 mg omeprazole once daily. three ph-metric studies were performed, in a cross-over design, before and after 8 days of treatment with omeprazole or ranitidine. both drugs significantly reduced intragastric acidity (p less than 0.001) during both night and day hours. median hourly 24-h intragastric ph was 1.8 in the basal study, 2.9 after ranitidine, and 3.4 after omeprazole. intragastric acidity fell from 84.0 mmol/l in the basal study to 14.2 mmol/l (79% inhibition) with ranitidine and 9.3 mmol/l (84% inhibition) with omeprazole. patients with esophagitis were significantly more exposed to acid than healthy subjects, in both the supine and upright position (p less than 0.01). the time with esophageal ph less than 4 dropped from 23.9% in the basal study to 8.5% with ranitidine and to 7.2% with omeprazole (p less than 0.001). both drugs significantly reduced esophageal exposure to acid in both the supine and upright positions (p less than 0.001), whereas neither had any effect on esophageal acid clearance.
provision of gastrointestinal endoscopy and related services for a district general hospital. working party of the clinical services committee of the british society of gastroenterology. (1) the number of endoscopic examinations performed is rising. epidemiological data and the workload of well developed units show that annual requirements per head of population are approaching: upper gastrointestinal 1 in 100 flexible sigmoidoscopy 1 in 500 colonoscopy 1 in 500 ercp 1 in 2000 (2) open access endoscopy to general practitioners is desirable and increasingly sought. for a district general hospital serving a population of 250,000, this workload entails about 3500 procedures annually, performed during 10 half day routine sessions plus emergency work. (3) high standards of training and experience are needed by all staff, who must work in purpose built accommodation designed to promote efficient and safe practice. (4) the endoscopy unit should be adjacent to day care facilities and near the x ray department. there should be easy access to wards. (5) an endoscopy unit needs at least two endoscopy rooms; a fully ventilated cleaning/disinfection area; rooms for patient reception, preparation, and recovery; and accommodation for administration, storage, and staff amenities. (6) the service should be consultant based. at least 10 clinical sessions are required, made up of six or more consultant sessions and two to four clinical assistant, hospital practitioner, or staff specialist sessions. each consultant should be expected to commit at least two sessions weekly to endoscopy. extra consultant sessions may be needed to provide an efficient service. (7) a specially trained nursing sister (grade g or h) and five other endoscopy nurses are needed to care for the patients; their work may be supplemented by care assistants. (8) a new post of endoscopy department assistant (analogous to an operating department assistant) is proposed to maintain and prepare instruments, and to give technical assistance during procedures. (9) a full time secretary should be employed. records, appointments, and audit should be computer based. (10) ercp needs the collaboration of an interventional radiologist working with high quality x ray equipment in a specially prepared radiology screening room. this facility may need to serve more than one hospital. (11) a gastrointestinal measurement laboratory can conveniently be combined with the endoscopy unit. in some hospitals one or more gastrointestinal measurement technicians may staff this laboratory. (12) an endoscopy unit is a service department analogous to a radiology department. it needs an annual budget.
human central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor expressing nerve growth factor receptors: chp707m. a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pnet) presented as a cerebral hemispheric mass in a 33-year-old man. bone marrow metastases were discovered 11 months later. a cell line (chp707m) was derived from these metastases. in culture, the cells showed features of neuronal differentiation, forming short neurites and synthesizing low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein. northern blotting showed the tumor cells express nerve growth factor (ngf) receptor messenger rna, and fluorescence-activated cell-sorting demonstrated ngf receptors on the cell surface. western blotting showed chp707m ngf receptors are truncated. the receptors are functional; they bind iodine 125-labeled mouse ngf with an affinity of 1.6 x 10(-9) m, and short-term treatment with ngf induces expression by the tumor cells of the proto-oncogene, c-fos. although chp707m is the first central nervous system pnet cell line proven to express ngf receptors, immunohistological survey of tissue sections prepared from human central nervous system pnets showed that 13 of 35 contained ngf receptor-positive tumor cells. thus, more than one-third of such tumors might be responsive to the effects of ngf.
coronary morphology after percutaneous directional coronary atherectomy in humans: autopsy analysis of three patients. the morphologic basis of angiographically successful percutaneous directional atherectomy and subsequent restenosis in human coronary arteries is unknown. the clinical and pathologic features of three patients who died after coronary atherectomy are described. tissue fragments obtained with atherectomy demonstrated atheromatous and fibroproliferative intima, media and adventitia. at autopsy, treated vascular segments (from the left anterior descending artery in two patients and a vein graft in one patient) demonstrated discrete defects in the vascular wall. defects extending into atheroma, media or adventitia corresponded with the presence of these tissues in the atherectomy specimens. tissues were otherwise not disrupted in the manner associated with balloon angioplasty. acute mural thrombus deposition was evident in the resection zone in one patient. late findings included fibroproliferative intimal tissue extending from the resected areas into the vascular lumen. in one patient intimal hyperplasia was sufficient to narrow the vascular lumen by 82% and was implicated in subsequent myocardial ischemia and infarction. the study indicates that 1) the vascular injury associated with atherectomy is distinct from that associated with balloon angioplasty, 2) acute mural thrombus deposition may occur even with resection limited to the intima, and 3) intimal hyperplasia may develop in regions treated with atherectomy and may be associated with late myocardial ischemia and infarction.
analysis of side-effects of medium- and low-dose cyclosporin maintenance therapy in psoriasis. the side-effects of long-term cyclosporin a (cya) treatment in 26 patients with severe psoriasis were evaluated. these patients had a mean pasi score of 30.2 and were treated with cya for between 7 and 37 months (mean 19.5 months). there were three groups according to the dose of cya, less than 2 mg/kg per day, 2-3 mg/kg per day and greater than 3 mg/kg per day. in all three groups, cya was found to be equally effective. treatment with cya was discontinued in 12 of the 26 patients because of nephrotoxicity and/or development of hypertension. one was in the less than 2 mg/kg per day group, three were in the 2-3 mg/kg per day group and eight in the greater than 3 mg/kg per day group. there was no hepatotoxicity with cya treatment. one patient developed two squamous cell carcinomas of the skin.
intrapericardial pheochromocytoma. in a 34-year-old man with hypertension and increased urinary catecholamine excretion for 12 years, an m-[131i]iodobenzylguanidine scan and chest computed tomography located an intrapericardial pheochromocytoma in the left atrium. the tumor was excised through a left thoracotomy with cardiopulmonary bypass and circulatory arrest. at 34-month follow-up, blood pressure and urine catecholamine levels were normal. in the 15 cases of intrapericardial pheochromocytoma treated by resection reported in the literature, all 11 survivors were symptom-free except 1 who had residual left atrial tumor and multiple skeletal metastatic lesions. computed tomography directed by the m-[131i]iodobenzylguanidine scan can be used for detailed location of the tumor. appropriate surgical approach and use of cardiopulmonary bypass are critical in the resection of these highly vascular tumors.
improved survival and reduced myocardial necrosis with cardiopulmonary bypass reperfusion in a canine model of coronary occlusion and cardiac arrest. study question: does cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) improve resuscitation rates and limit infarct size after cardiac arrest and acute myocardial infarction? design: controlled randomized trial with all animals undergoing left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and subsequent ventricular fibrillation and resuscitation. all animals were supported for four hours after resuscitation in an intensive care setting. intervention: group 1 (eight) was resuscitated with standard external cpr and advanced life support. group 2 (eight) was resuscitated with cpb. measurements and main results: group hemodynamic, resuscitation variables, number resuscitated, and number of four-hour survivors were compared. ischemic and necrotic myocardial weights were determined with histochemical staining techniques in four-hour survivors. infarct size was measured as the ratio of necrotic weight to ischemic weight. significantly fewer dogs were resuscitated in group 1 (four of eight) than in group 2 (eight of eight) (p less than .05). group 2 survivors required significantly less epinephrine and lidocaine than group 1 survivors (p less than .05) and higher aortic diastolic and coronary perfusion pressures after cpb (p less than .001). the ratio of myocardial necrotic weight to ischemic weight at four hours was 0.82 +/- 0.25 in group 1 and 0.22 +/- 0.25 in group 2 (p less than .05). however, collateral blood flow was not measured in this study. conclusion: this pilot study further substantiates the improvement in resuscitation rates obtainable with cpb. cpb may also limit infarct size during the postresuscitation period and requires further study.
the diagnosis and management of aortic dissection. aortic dissection is a severe disease. most untreated patients with types i and ii (proximal) dissection and over half of those with type iii (distal) dissection die within 1 year. most of the deaths occur within 2 weeks and are caused by rupture, aortic insufficiency, and branch vessel obstruction. aortic dissection is suspected in patients with anterior chest and back pain that progresses downward. diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography, aortography, or echocardiography. appropriate medical treatment and corrective surgery, including total aortic replacement, performed in the acute and chronic stages, are now successful in over 90% of the cases; long-term results of treatment are steadily improving and are expected to exceed 50% at 10 years. the keys to a successful outcome are being aware of the symptoms of dissection, early diagnosis, and prompt application of appropriate treatment; diligent follow-up includes controlling blood pressure, decreasing the velocity of left ventricular contraction, monitoring the size of the residual aorta, and taking appropriate action if redissection, aneurysmal formation, or rupture occurs.
neurofibromatosis type 2: report of a family and review of current evaluation and treatment. significant advances during the past decade have greatly improved our understanding of neurofibromatosis type 2, a genetic disease which results in bilateral acoustic neuromas. the emergence of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging has allowed early detection of minute intracanalicular eighth-nerve tumors, less than 1 cm in diameter. recombinant dna studies have clarified the genetics that underlie neurofibromatosis type 2 and separate it from a variety of related conditions, such as von recklinghausen's neurofibromatosis. early diagnosis and surgical removal of these tumors may offer the only hope of preserving hearing and facial nerve function. a report of the evaluation and treatment of a family with multiple affected individuals will exemplify these conclusions.
effect of epinephrine and lidocaine therapy on outcome after cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation. one hundred ninety-nine patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest persisted in ventricular fibrillation after the first defibrillation attempt and were then randomly assigned to receive either epinephrine or lidocaine before the next two shocks. the resulting electrocardiographic rhythms and outcomes for each group of patients were compared for each group and also compared with results during the prior 2 years, a period when similar patients primarily received sodium bicarbonate as initial adjunctive therapy. asystole occurred after defibrillation with threefold frequency after repeated injection of lidocaine (15 of 59, 25%) compared with patients treated with epinephrine (four of 55, 7%) (p less than 0.02). there was no difference in the proportion of patients resuscitated after treatment with either lidocaine or epinephrine (51 of 106, 48% vs. 50 of 93, 54%) and in the proportion surviving (18, 19% vs. 21, 20%), respectively. resuscitation (64% vs. 50%, p less than 0.005) but not survival rates (24% vs. 20%) were higher during the prior 2-year period in which initial adjunctive drug treatment for persistent ventricular fibrillation primarily consisted of a continuous infusion of sodium bicarbonate. the negative effect of lidocaine or epinephrine treatment was explained in part by their influence on delaying subsequent defibrillation attempts. survival rates were highest (30%) in a subset of patients who received no drug therapy between shocks. we conclude that currently recommended doses of epinephrine and lidocaine are not useful for improving outcome in patients who persist in ventricular fibrillation.
interferon system and natural killer cell activity in myasthenia gravis. the autoimmune response in myasthenia gravis is well characterized, but little is known about the mechanisms initiating it. we have studied the interferon system and natural killer cell activity in 25 patients with myasthenia gravis and compared them to 68 healthy subjects and 96 patients with acute viral infections. forty-four per cent of patients had circulating interferon (greater than 16 mu/ml), and in a similar proportion their peripheral blood mononuclear cells were in an antiviral state, i.e., showed low levels of viral replication when infected by vesicular stomatitis virus. spontaneous in vitro interferon production by patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells was also common (greater than 10 mu/ml, 32 per cent), while the response to the alpha-interferon inducer poly i:c was lower than expected, possibly reflecting the already high state of activation of the interferon system. these results were essentially similar to those obtained in patients with viral illnesses and differed significantly from healthy controls. in many myasthenia gravis patients (16 of 22, 73 per cent), a markedly deficient natural killer cell activity was found, with a median cytotoxicity of 6.5 per cent compared to 29 per cent in healthy subjects (p less than 0.005). thus, many patients with myasthenia gravis have evidence of an activated interferon system and defective natural killer cell activity, suggesting an occult viral infection or reflecting nonspecific stimulation which may nevertheless contribute to the pathogenesis of the autoimmune response.
monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites: a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when (a) the ascitic fluid culture is positive, (b) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and (c) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection. few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria (pure growth of a single type of organism), but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3. in this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients, 44 (31.9%) were episodes of "monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites" compared with 94 (68.1%) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. seventeen patients had both types of infection. the infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups. patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease. in 62% of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis. thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites (who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis--sometimes within a few hours. the concentration of the chemoattractant c5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients; this excludes ascitic fluid c5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis. monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
spinal nerve stimulation in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy. direct spinal nerve stimulation was compared with needle electromyography (emg) in 40 patients who were suspected of having an l5 or s1 radiculopathy. for spinal nerve stimulation, we adapted a monopolar needle electrode inserted deep into the paraspinal muscle. the minimal latency, amplitude, and negative phase area of compound muscle action potential from myotomal muscles were recorded with computer assistance. abnormality was considered to be significant when the value fell outside of 2 sd of control mean values. among 17 patients with clinical evidence of radiculopathy, needle emg was abnormal in 10 patients (58.8%), whereas in the nerve stimulation test the abnormalities were shown in 16 patients (94.1%); in amplitude difference and the abnormal area, differences were shown in 12 patients (70.6%). among 23 patients with only subjective symptoms of radiculopathy, needle emg was abnormal in nine patients (39.1%), whereas the abnormal amplitude differences were shown in 18 patients (78.3%) and 15 patients (65.2%) with abnormal area difference by spinal nerve stimulation, respectively. direct spinal nerve stimulation is recognized as an objective and sensitive test in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy.
salicylate poisoning from enteric-coated aspirin. delayed absorption may complicate management. acute salicylate poisoning with enteric-coated aspirin may result from accidental ingestion, a suicide attempt, or a complication of long-term therapy. because absorption of enteric-coated aspirin is delayed, use of the done nomogram to determine toxicity may lead to underestimating the severity of the poisoning. treatment options include induction of emesis or diuresis, gastric lavage, administration of activated charcoal, and surgery.
flow cytometric analysis of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt) is a useful marker for lymphoid precursor cells. in this study, the authors used flow cytometry (fcm) to analyze tdt expression in human hematopoietic malignancies. cells were fixed in 0.5% formaldehyde, briefly exposed to nonionic detergent, and subsequently labeled with mouse monoclonal anti-tdt antibodies followed by fluorescein-conjugated antimouse igg and propidium iodide (pi), which was used for the simultaneous analysis of dna content. cells from 20 of 22 acute lymphoblastic leukemias (all), 4 of 7 mixed lineage leukemias, 2 of 21 acute myeloid and myelomonocytic leukemias, 1 of 2 chronic myeloid leukemias in blast crisis, 1 lymphoblastic lymphoma, and 1 thymoma were tdt positive. cells from 13 nonlymphoblastic lymphomas, 3 myelodysplastic bone marrows, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 29 normal individuals were negative. an excellent correlation was seen between this assay, the conventional slide immunofluorescence technique, and an enzyme immunoassay method. the fcm assay detected as few as 2% blasts in mixing experiments of tdt-containing leukemic cells with normal peripheral lymphocytes. furthermore, the combined analysis of tdt and dna allowed the recognition of aneuploid tdt positive cells in four cases of all. the high sensitivity, the quantitative information obtained, and the capability of simultaneously analyzing dna content make this method of tdt analysis more valuable than conventional techniques.
surgical management of bile duct stones. the biliary surgeon in the 1990s must be familiar with all of the available techniques for the treatment of bile duct stones. experience and judgment are important in the successful management of the individual patient with intrahepatic or extrahepatic stones. knowledge of the nonsurgical methods of stone removal is important in the decision-making process. however, the biliary surgeon must resist the temptation to do less than a thorough removal of all stones at the operation lest the patient be subjected to additional procedures, which carry their own risks of morbidity and death. the goal should be to clear the stones from the biliary system with the fewest procedures offering the lowest morbidity and mortality risks to the patient.
role of leukotriene b4 in granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic feline intestine. several studies have demonstrated that granulocytes accumulate in the intestinal mucosa following ischemia/reperfusion. it has been suggested that leukotriene b4 may be released during ischemia/reperfusion and consequently may promote granulocyte infiltration into the mucosa. the objectives of this study were to determine whether (a) leukotriene b4 is produced in the gut mucosa during ischemia and reperfusion, and (b) inhibition of leukotriene b4 attenuates granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic intestinal mucosa. isolated segments of cat intestine were subjected to 3 hours of ischemia and 1 hour of reperfusion. mucosal samples were obtained during baseline, ischemia at 3 hours and reperfusion at 1 hour. leukotriene b4 production was determined by radioimmunoassay. tissue-associated myeloperoxidase activity was used to quantitate granulocyte accumulation in the mucosal samples. in untreated animals, mucosal leukotriene b4 concentration was higher at reperfusion compared with baseline levels. the reperfusion-induced increase in mucosal leukotriene b4 was entirely prevented by pretreatment with either nordihydroguaiaretic acid (sigma chemical co., st. louis, mo) or l663,536 (merck-frosst, montreal, quebec, canada), two potent lipoxygenase inhibitors. both lipoxygenase inhibitors, as well as leukotriene b4 antagonist (sc-41930) significantly attenuated the reperfusion-induced infiltration of granulocytes. these results indicate that leukotriene b4 plays an important role in mediating the granulocyte accumulation elicited by reperfusion of the ischemic bowel.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. a clinical case series of 21 patients. new mexico eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome study group. we reviewed 21 cases of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome to describe the range of clinical findings in these patients. most patients were women (20 [95%]) and middle-aged (mean, 46 years) and had taken the food supplement l-tryptophan (95%). all cases involved eosinophilia (eosinophil count, greater than or equal to 2.0 x 10(9)/l) and incapacitating myalgias. fourteen (88%) of the 16 patients tested had mild liver function abnormalities. aldolase levels were abnormal in all patients tested. muscle biopsies were done in five patients; four showed eosinophilic perimyositis, and one had interstitial inflammation. no physical finding was pathognomonic or universal, but muscle tenderness, tachycardia, and rash were the most common signs found during physical examinations. seven patients were treated with prednisone, and six showed improvement in muscle pain and a decrease in eosinophilia. the cause of this disorder is still unknown.
radioimmunology. imaging and therapy. targeting of radioactivity to tumors using antitumor antibodies is evolving from a laboratory curiosity toward a practical diagnostic and therapeutic technique that promises widespread benefits for many common human cancers. the development of the hybridoma technique by kohler and milstein for producing monoclonal antibodies is probably the single most important contribution to the development of this field. a large array of monoclonal antibodies against many human tumors have been created and labeled with a variety of radioisotopes; 110 clinical trials have been identified from the literature between the interval of 1978 to the present. these studies are beginning to form the basis for certain conclusions regarding likely benefits for certain combinations of antitumor antibodies and isotopes in specific instances of clinical management in patients with malignant neoplasms. for example, in melanoma, lymphoma, neuroblastoma, and colorectal malignancies, radiolabeled antibodies have demonstrated occult tumors, which could not be disclosed with conventional methodologies. radioimmunotherapy of malignant lymphoma is achieving durable remissions in patients who have failed conventional forms of therapy. for the most part, these advances have been achieved through intelligent application of known principles of immunochemistry, imaging physics, and tumor immunology. progress has been slow but steady. in a few instances, the term "magic bullet" is warranted in describing the targeting of a particular radiolabeled antibody to a human tumor. i-131, 3-f8, an igg3 against the gd2 antigen of neuroblastoma, which was introduced by cheung, and in-111 t-101, against the cd5 antigen of t-cells, which was developed by royston, stand out because of the consistency and high concentration of radioactive targeting to human tumors in clinical trials. if certain technical innovations fulfill their initial promise, the future will be bright for radioimmunologic methods of diagnosis and therapy. genetic engineering will permit the development of "humanized" antibodies with biologic properties that favor tumor localization. new chemical approaches will broaden the range of isotopes available as diagnostic and therapeutic radiolabels. application of modern imaging methodologies, such as positron emission tomography (pet), will detect more lesions of smaller size and permit quantitative imaging for dosimetry considerations. greater speed and ease of use of computerized work stations will lead to the broader application of fusion imaging in which radioantibody images will be viewed simultaneously with tct or mri for better anatomic correlation of abnormal sites of antigen-reactive tumor deposits.
recanalization of chronic total coronary arterial occlusions by percutaneous excimer-laser and laser-assisted angioplasty. a low primary success and high restenosis rate after recanalization of chronic total occlusions by conventional coronary angioplasty have encouraged the application of new interventional techniques like excimer-laser angioplasty. in 39 patients with a coronary occlusion for 1 to 12 months, recanalization was attempted by laser angioplasty through a multifiber-catheter coupled to a pulsed xecl excimer laser. after successful passage of the occlusion by a standard guidewire in 27 patients (69%), the laser catheter was advanced over the central guidewire and crossed the occlusion in 25 patients (64%). in 2 patients with unsuccessful passage of the laser catheter, the subsequent attempt with a low profile balloon catheter also failed. in 19 of the 25 patients with successful laser recanalization, the residual stenosis exceeded 50% and was therefore followed by additional balloon angioplasty. the average residual stenosis after laser was 61 +/- 17% of the vessel diameter, and after balloon angioplasty 28 +/- 9% (n = 19), whereas after laser angioplasty alone it was 38 +/- 5% (n = 6). no complications associated with the laser application were observed. angiographic control after 24 hours showed a reocclusion of 2 (8%) recanalized vessels. in this pilot study, laser angioplasty proved to be a safe and feasible method for the treatment of chronic total coronary occlusions. because it was necessary to guide the catheter by a central wire, the primary success was limited by a successful passage of the wire of the occlusion. the rate of stand-alone laser angioplasty has to be increased by future improvements of the technique to enable a comparative evaluation of this method with conventional angioplasty.
magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography in pediatric head and neck masses. fifty-three magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and 25 computed tomography (ct) studies of 53 head and neck masses in pediatric patients were reviewed retrospectively. all lesions had pathologic proof except for 2 metastatic and 2 recurrent lesions, which only had prior pathologic confirmation at their primary sites. these included 12 malignant tumors, 23 benign tumors, 6 inflammatory masses, and 12 congenital lesions. the mri performance ranged predominantly from good to excellent in detection of the lesion and the extent of involvement and in contrast to the surrounding tissue; when ct comparison was available, mri proved to be equal to or better than it in detection of these factors and in preoperative diagnosis. our results suggest that mri should be the method of choice for the initial evaluation of the pediatric head and neck region, especially in those patients requiring multiple examinations. however, ct and mri should be used conjunctively in complicated cases, especially those possibly involving lesions with calcifications or bony involvement.
efficacy of potassium and magnesium in essential hypertension: a double-blind, placebo controlled, crossover study objective--to evaluate the antihypertensive activity of potassium given alone or in combination with magnesium in patients with mild hypertension. design--a double blind, randomised, placebo controlled, crossover trial of 32 weeks' duration. settings--cardiology outpatient department, sassoon general hospitals, pune, india. patients--37 adults with mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure less than 110 mm hg). intervention--patients received either placebo or potassium 60 mmol/day alone or in combination with magnesium 20 mmol/day in a crossover design. no other drug treatment was allowed. measurements--blood pressure and heart rate assessed at weekly intervals and biochemical parameters at monthly intervals. results--potassium alone or in combination with magnesium produced a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressures (p less than 0.001) and a significant reduction in serum cholesterol concentration (p less than 0.05); other biochemical variables did not change. magnesium did not have an additional effect. urinary potassium excretion increased significantly in the groups who received potassium alone or in combination with magnesium. the drug was well tolerated and compliance was satisfactory. conclusion--potassium 60 mmol/day lowers arterial blood pressure in patients with mild hypertension. giving magnesium as well has no added advantage.
reproducibility of image interpretation in immunoscintigraphy performed with indium-111- and iodine-131-labeled oc125 f(ab')2 antibody injected into the same patients. an important criterion for the clinical use of a new imaging technique is the correct reproducibility of interpretation. forty-six paired immunoscintigraphic examinations were performed on 43 patients with suspected ovarian carcinoma recurrence using f(ab')2 fragments of oc125 antibody labeled first with indium-111 and then with iodine-131. planar scintigraphy (ps) and emission computed tomography (ect) images were interpreted blindly and separately by three observers, and reproducibility was evaluated by a kappa concordance index. intra- and interobserver reproducibility were generally satisfactory (kappa values of 0.6 and 0.7, respectively). binomial analysis of kappa values for ect showed the superiority of indium-111 for intraobserver (p = 0.035) and interobserver (p = 0.0039) study. however, for ps there was no significant difference in reproducibility with the two radionuclides.
interferon-alpha receptor expression and regulation in chronic hepatitis b virus infection. interferon-alpha elicits antiviral and immunoregulatory activities by binding to specific receptors on the cell surface. in this study, binding characteristics of interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were studied using radioiodinated recombinant interferon-alpha 2b to determine interferon-alpha receptor numbers and dissociation constants. a single class of interferon-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets. peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection (n = 20) and controls (n = 16) expressed a similar number of interferon-alpha receptors (484 +/- 175 vs. 511 +/- 168 sites/cell respectively, p = ns) with a similar dissociation constant (dissociation constant approximately 0.2 to 0.7 nmol/l). expression of interferon-alpha receptors was similar in monocyte-enriched and lymphocyte-enriched fractions in both groups. similar changes were observed in patients receiving alpha-interferon therapy. there was no correlation between interferon-alpha receptors expression and serum transaminase, serum hbsag, serum hbv dna, liver histological findings or the response to interferon-alpha therapy. after incubation of lymphocytes in vitro with interferon-alpha 2b (10 to 1,000 u/ml), interferon-alpha receptors number dropped by 42% to 80%, but this was associated with an increase in binding affinity (dissociation constant approximately 0.05 to 0.15 nmol/l) in both patients and controls. there was significant delay in the initial phase of receptor recovery in the patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection compared with normal controls (days 1 and 2, p less than 0.05).
the surgical anatomy of the scalp. cadaveric dissections and surgical observations have led to the description and clarification of the boundaries. blood supply, and nomenclature of the layers of the scalp. special attention was directed to the layer of "loose connective tissue" that lies beneath the entire galea and above the cranial periosteum centrally, and the temporalis fascia laterally. it has been named the subgaleal fascia (sgf). the subgaleal fascia is a trilaminar structure with unusual potential in reconstructive surgery. histologic study reveals the subgaleal fascia to be composed of a central dense collagenous layer surrounded by vascularized areolar tissue. it is readily dissected from surrounding galeal and periosteal layers. the subgaleal fascia was probably included in previously described "pericranial flaps," which were often based beyond the periosteum. the blood supply of the subgaleal fascia originates from the proximal portion of the peripheral vessels of the scalp and continues within the areolar lamina. the subgaleal fascia is an exceptionally thin, malleable, and well-vascularized flap useful for facial reconstruction.
left retroperitoneal exposure for distal mesenteric artery repair. distal disease in the mesenteric arteries has usually been repaired transabdominally since it is believed that only the proximal centimeter of each vessel is accessible through the retroperitoneum. we treated five patients with chronic visceral ischemia and lesions extending beyond the orifice using a retroperitoneal approach. exposure was obtained with a left flank incision through the tenth interspace. the left crus of the diaphragm was divided in order to control the supraceliac aorta. the mesenteric vessels were identified and dissected until their entrance into the peritoneum. there were no difficulties in exposing the superior mesenteric artery (sma) as it coursed under the pancreas and over the duodenum for an approximate length of 5 to 10 cm. the uncinate process of the pancreas was not a limiting factor for exposure of the sma in this region and further distal exposure could be obtained by incising the peritoneum. the trifurcation of the celiac artery and the splenic artery were accessible through this exposure; however, only the first centimeter of the hepatic and gastric branches could be reached. revascularization was performed with endarterectomy (2 patients) and bypass (3 patients). bowel viability was assessed at the conclusion of the procedure by incising the peritoneum. there were no complications from this exposure and no patient required reoperation for ischemic bowel. we conclude that the left retroperitoneal approach is not only acceptable for orifice lesions but is also applicable for distal disease.
pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension: prevalence and relation to splanchnic hemodynamics. the prevalence of pulmonary hypertension in 507 patients hospitalized with portal hypertension but without known pulmonary hypertension who underwent cardiac catheterization was prospectively studied. ten (2%) of these patients, 6 of whom were clinically asymptomatic, had primary pulmonary hypertension. second, 26 patients with symptomatic pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension were reviewed. pulmonary hypertension occurred later after diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with a surgical shunt (10 patients) than in those without a shunt (147 +/- 49 vs. 44 +/- 27 months; p less than 0.0001). cardiac index correlated inversely with pulmonary arterial pressure (r = -0.45; p less than 0.01) and was lower in the 5 patients who died of pulmonary hypertension than in the 5 who died of liver failure (1.52 +/- 0.14 vs. 3.69 +/- 1.88 l/min.m2; p less than 0.05). third, systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics were compared in 285 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and 29 controls. no significant relation was found between elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and increased portal pressure, zzygos blood flow, or cardiac index. pulmonary hypertension is considerably more frequent than was previously estimated in patients with portal hypertension. the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension could increase with the duration of portal hypertension without any clear relation to the degree of portal hypertension, hepatic failure, or amount of blood shunted.
caesarean section in a patient with haemoglobin sc disease and a phaeochromocytoma. the anaesthetic management of a patient with haemoglobin sc disease for lower segment caesarean section and excision of a phaeochromocytoma is described. the patient was given a general anaesthetic for the surgical procedure after exchange transfusion had achieved an haemoglobin a concentration of greater than 50%. a live infant was delivered and a suprarenal phaeochromocytoma was excised during a 6.5 hour procedure. the patient's postoperative recovery was uneventful.
long-term follow-up in toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodules treated with radioactive iodine the long-term effects of radioiodine treatment on thyroid function in patients with a toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodule were evaluated. fifty-two patients received a therapeutic dose of 20 mci of iodine-131 (131i). duration of follow-up was 10 +/- 4 yr. follow-up data included a biochemical evaluation of thyroid function. the failure rate (recurrent hyperthyroidism) was 2%. the incidence of hypothyroidism was 6% and was not related to the dose per gram of nodular tissue. oral administration of 20 mci of radioiodine is a simple and highly effective method for the treatment of patients with a toxic autonomous thyroid nodule. the risk of development of hypothyroidism is low if extranodular uptake of 131i is prevented. this can be achieved by not treating euthyroid patients, by no longer using injections of exogenous thyroid stimulating hormone in the diagnostic work-up of the patients and by always performing radioiodine imaging shortly before treatment.
ganglioneuroma of the spinal cord. this report describes a 2-year-old boy who harbored an intramedullary ganglioneuroma involving almost the entire length of the spinal cord. the terminology, pathology, and neurobiological behavior of this tumor is discussed.
red cell antibodies arising from solid organ transplants. rbc antibodies arising from transplanted organs and directed against recipient rbcs represent a well-established immunohematologic complication of solid organ transplantation. in abo-unmatched organs, the frequency and severity of graft antibodies and hemolysis generally increase with the size (lymphoid content) of the organ, from kidney to liver to heart-lung transplants. in the cases reviewed here, the frequency of hemolysis increased in cyclosporine-treated kidney transplant recipients and o-to-a liver transplant recipients and decreased in group ab liver transplant recipients and kidney transplant recipients receiving azathioprine or low-dose postoperative graft irradiation. available data cannot otherwise distinguish which cyclosporine-treated recipients of abo-unmatched kidneys and livers (30-40% of total) will develop graft antibody. there has been no conclusive effect to date of the age, race, or gender of the donor or the recipient, of cadaver versus living kidney donors, or of patients' a2 or secretor status. in a few cases of living-donor kidney grafts, the donor was the patient's mother or wife who had been exposed to the recipient's rbc antigens via pregnancy. the abo antibodies are typically igg, appear 7 to 10 days after transplantation, and last for about a month. if immediate-spin crossmatching is done routinely, dats are recommended in compatibility testing after abo-unmatched transplants. changes in the immunosuppressive regimen, such as a change from cyclosporine therapy, have not affected the duration of these antibodies. most patients require only transfusions for this self-limited process, but six cases of hemolysis-induced acute renal failure have been reported, and one death was attributed to complications of hemolysis. rbc or plasma exchange has been performed in a few fulminant cases. rbcs of the donor's blood type are given when antibody appears. some workers recommend such transfusion as prophylaxis at the time of surgery, although in liver transplants, the plasma accompanying a large amount of group o rbcs given perioperatively might be problematic. in several other centers, abo-unmatched liver transplants have equivalent overall graft survivals, but the pittsburgh adult patients with hemolysis have had reduced early graft survival. in the cases reviewed here, nine igg rh antibodies from kidney grafts directed against recipient rbcs have been observed, usually beginning 2 to 3 weeks after a cyclosporine-treated transplant, lasting for 2 to 6 months after operation, and causing mild hemolysis. one case represented a primary immune response from a previously unsensitized donor.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
pancreatic transplantation: radiologic evaluation of vascular complications. transplantation of the pancreas is an increasingly common therapeutic option for preventing or delaying complications of type i diabetes mellitus. the authors studied the relative roles of various radiologic examinations in diagnosing vascular complications in these grafts including arterial and venous thrombosis, stenosis, and anastomotic leak (the most common vascular factors that necessitate pancreatectomy of the transplant), as defined with pathologic or arteriographic data. the results of 78 scintigraphic flow studies, 40 abdominal and pelvic computed tomographic (ct) scans, 27 sonograms, and eight color doppler studies were evaluated in 52 patients who received a total of 27 cadaveric and 26 living-donor grafts over a 12-year period. these results were correlated with the data from 45 gross and microscopic pathologic studies and 37 arteriograms to determine their relative value in enabling detection of graft thrombosis and other vascular complications. scintigraphy, ct, sonography, and color doppler were all sensitive in detection of generalized graft abnormalities but lacked specificity in defining the underlying etiologic factors.
vascular lesions of the intestines. this article reviews the pathology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding. in addition, a modified system for classifying such lesions, based on the author's personal experience with such lesions, is presented.
effect of 21-aminosteroid u-74006f on lipid peroxidation in subarachnoid clot. the present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of u-74006f on malondialdehyde (a by-product of lipid peroxidation) in subarachnoid clot. eighteen cynomolgus monkeys were divided into three groups of six each. there were two u-74006f-treated groups, receiving doses of 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg, and a placebo-treated group. each monkey underwent baseline cerebral angiography followed by right-sided craniectomy and placement of subarachnoid clot around the middle cerebral artery (mca). treatment was administered intravenously every 8 hours for 6 days. seven days after the experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah), angiography was repeated and the animals were killed. in the placebo-treated group, significant vasospasm occurred in the mca on the side of the clot (p less than 0.01). after u-74006f treatment at both dosages, significantly less vasospasm developed in the clot-side mca (p less than 0.01). the content of malondialdehyde was measured by both the thiobarbituric acid test and high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc). comparing the two methods, hplc proved to be more accurate than the thiobarbituric acid test, especially for measurement of low concentrations of malondialdehyde. in the placebo-treated group, the malondialdehyde content was significantly increased in the day 7 clot (p less than 0.05). in contrast, malondialdehyde content in freshly prepared clot was very low. in the 0.3-mg/kg u-74006f group, the malondialdehyde content of clot was significantly less at day 7 compared to clot from the placebo-treated group (p less than 0.05). although the malondialdehyde content of clot from the 1.0 mg/kg u-74006f-treated group was less than that of placebo, it was not significantly so. malondialdehyde was not detected in the actual vessel wall of the mca of any group. these results suggest that lipid peroxidation in subarachnoid clot may play a role in the pathogenesis of vasospasm and that the salutary effects of u-74006f in vasospasm may be mediated by a reduction of lipid peroxidation in sah.
clinical and angiographic determinants of primary coronary angioplasty success. m-heart investigators. clinical and anatomic determinants of the initial success of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were prospectively evaluated in 826 patients enrolled in the multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial (m-heart). the 639 men and 187 women ranged in age from 31 to 85 years. successful angioplasty (residual stenosis less than 50% and no major complications) was achieved in 886 (88.6%) of 1,000 lesions. success rates were uniform among the eight individual centers. outcome was not influenced by gender, age or other clinical features, including severity and duration of angina, prior myocardial infarction, rest pain, transient st segment elevation, history of smoking or diabetes. in contrast, procedural outcome was significantly associated with lesion-specific angiographic factors. stenoses 60% to 74%, 75% to 89%, 90% to 99% and 100% were associated with success rates of 96%, 90%, 84% and 69%, respectively (p less than 0.001). angioplasty was less successful in calcified than in noncalcified lesions (82% versus 90%, p less than 0.01), in thrombotic than in nonthrombotic lesions (82% versus 90%, p less than 0.05) and in lesions in the right coronary artery than in other vessels (84% versus 90%, p less than 0.01). outcome was not related to other anatomic variables, including lesion location (proximal versus distal), vessel size, eccentricity, stenosis length or translesional gradient. by multivariate logistic regression, preangioplasty percent stenosis, right coronary artery location and lesion calcification were demonstrated to be significant independent predictors of angioplasty success. alternative clinical and angiographic variables did not contribute to this regression model.
prognostic value of predischarge low-level exercise thallium testing after thrombolytic treatment of acute myocardial infarction. low-level exercise thallium testing is useful in identifying the high-risk patient after acute myocardial infarction (ami). to determine whether this use also applies to patients after thrombolytic treatment of ami, 64 patients who underwent early thrombolytic therapy for ami and 107 patients without acute intervention were evaluated. the ability of both the electrocardiogram and thallium tests to predict future events was compared in both groups. after a mean follow-up of 374 days, there were 25 and 32% of cardiac events in the 2 groups, respectively, with versus without acute intervention. these included death, another ami, coronary artery bypass grafting or angioplasty with 75% of the events occurring in the 3 months after the first infarction. the only significant predictors of outcome were left ventricular cavity dilatation in the intervention group and st-segment depression and increased lung uptake in the nonintervention group. the sensitivity of exercise thallium was 55% in the intervention group and 81% in the nonintervention group (p less than 0.05). therefore, in patients having thrombolytic therapy for ami, nearly half the events after discharge are not predicted by predischarge low-level exercise thallium testing. the relatively weak correlation of outcome with unmasking ischemia in the laboratory before discharge may be due to an unstable coronary lesion or rapid progression of disease after the test. tests considered useful for prognostication after ami may not necessarily have a similar value if there has been an acute intervention, such as thrombolytic therapy.
modified van nes rotationplasty for osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia in children above-knee amputation has been the traditional treatment for osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia. recent advances in chemotherapy have encouraged the development of limb-salvage techniques. van nes rotationplasty for malignant lesions of the distal femur has increased in popularity as a reconstructive technique, but no similar procedure has been described for lesions of the proximal tibia. we have developed a modified rotationplasty for this lesion and have performed it in four children. the surgical technique, postoperative management and results of the procedure are described. two patients had delayed wound healing. no other complications have developed and our patients were disease-free at follow-up, while the appearance of the leg was well accepted by the patients and their parents. this procedure is a useful addition to the armamentarium of the tumour surgeon for the treatment of malignant lesions of the proximal tibia.
the child with recurrent syncope: autonomic function testing and beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity. recurrent syncope in the child with a normal heart poses both diagnostic and therapeutic problems. to assess autonomic contributions to syncope, formal autonomic function testing was performed in 22 children (aged 7 to 18 years) with recurrent syncope and a normal heart. autonomic testing consisted of eight to nine separate tests; 14 of the 22 patients had reproduction of syncope or symptoms during testing. patients with a positive test had a lower norepinephrine level while supine (334 +/- 86 versus 547 +/- 169 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and lower norepinephrine level in the upright position (628 +/- 219 versus 891 +/- 270 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) than did patients with a negative test. the slope of heart rate response versus log isoproterenol dose was greater in patients with a positive test than in those with a negative test (1.70 +/- 0.70 versus 0.89 +/- 0.19, p less than 0.01). all five patients with a positive test who were given intravenous propranolol had elimination of syncope with repeat testing. eight of 10 patients with a positive test were successfully treated with atenolol, including 2 patients without prior resolution of symptoms after pacemaker implantation for symptoms attributed to bradycardia. beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity may cause recurrent syncope in young patients. inappropriate heart rate response to standing may elicit the bezold-jarisch reflex, resulting in bradycardia or hypotension, or both, in some patients. beta-adrenergic blockade is of benefit in many of these patients.
immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma presenting as an eyelid tumor. a 59-year-old white man presented with an ulcerating mass of the left upper eyelid of 6 months' duration. a biopsy specimen of the tumor was diagnosed as an immunoblastic t-cell malignant lymphoma. the lesion completely regressed after 4000 cgy of cobalt-60 radiation therapy. in the ensuing 33 months, multiple, widespread skin nodules of the same neoplasm developed including a right upper eyelid tumor. to the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of an immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma initially manifesting as an eyelid neoplasm.
infertility and eating disorders. sixty-six consecutive infertility clinic patients were prospectively screened with the 26-item eating attitudes test and a study questionnaire. women identified as being at high risk for an eating disorder were then interviewed to confirm or refute the diagnosis. a total of 7.6% of infertility clinic women were found to suffer from anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. if eating disorders not otherwise specified were included, a total of 16.7% of infertility patients were found to suffer from an eating disorder. among infertile women with amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea 58% had eating disorders. because women often fail to disclose eating disorders to their gynecologists and may appear to be of normal weight, it is recommended that a nutritional and eating disorder history be taken in infertility patients, particularly those with menstrual abnormalities. it has previously been shown that disorder eating and nutrition can affect menstruation, fertility, maternal weight gain, and fetal well-being.
emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy. emery-dreifuss syndrome is a rare form of muscular dystrophy associated with cardiac complications that lead to sudden death. the disorder and its potential anaesthetic implications in the management of a patient who presented for orthopaedic surgery is described.
pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures. a pulse oximeter was used to monitor arterial oxygen saturations in 11 patients during apparent tonic-clonic seizures. 8 had a clinical diagnosis of genuine fits, 6 of whom showed striking falls in oxygen saturation during the seizures. 3 had a clinical diagnosis of pseudoseizures, none of whom had hypoxia during these episodes. pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures may help to identify patients with low arterial oxygen tension who need immediate intervention.
use of m-[131i]iodobenzylguanidine in the treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma. the efficacy and safety of m-[131i]iodobenzylguanidine ([131i]mibg) were assessed in 15 patients with malignant pheochromocytomas in a nonrandomized, single arm trial, in which patients were treated with [131i]mibg (sa, 740 megabequerel/mg) every 3 months. seven of these patients had bone and soft tissue metastases, 4 had only soft metastases, and 4 had only bone metastases. the follow-up period ranged from 6-54 months; the number of doses ranged from 2-11, with 2.9 (78.4 mci) to 9.25 gigabequerel (gbq) (250 mci)/administration and a cumulative activity from 11.1-85.90 gbq (300-2322 mci). the absorbed cumulative dose in tumors ranged from 12-155 gy. a beneficial effect of the treatment was observed in 9 patients (60%). no complete remission of the disease was observed. seven patients died during the study, among whom 4 never responded to the treatment. seven had hormonal responses (4 complete and 3 partial), with a duration ranging from 5-48 months. among these patients, 4 relapsed, and 3 died within 3 months. five patients had partial tumoral responses mainly located in soft tissues and for a duration ranging from 29-54 months. all patients with a hormonal response had objective improvement in clinical status and blood pressure. there was no clear-cut relationship between the cumulative dose and the responses. the main side-effect observed in 1 patient with widespread bone metastases after three doses (12.9 gbq) was a pancytopenia, which resolved after treatment was discontinued. this study suggests that repeated [131i]mibg treatment could be effective in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytoma.
contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome. the salient contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome have made it unique. no pancreatic endocrine tumor described before (insulinoma) or subsequently (glucagonoma, somatostatinoma, vipoma, pancreatic-polypeptidoma) has been the topic of such a variety of studies, or has been such an inspiration and rich source of new ideas for investigation and ultimate improvement in patient care.
presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose. a one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine (200-300 mg/kg). the patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion. the child developed ventricular arrhythmias, seizures, metabolic disturbances, and severe pulmonary edema. she survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor.
responses of intercostal muscle biopsies from normal subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis. in order to evaluate the mechanisms of weakness in muscles of patients with myasthenia gravis (mg), intercostal muscle biopsies were obtained from 9 normal subjects and 6 mg patients, and the compound muscle action potential (ap) and tension responses to nerve and muscle stimulation, and contracture responses on exposure to caffeine, were monitored in vitro. in normal muscle, on stimulation of the nerve or muscle at 30 to 100 hz, the ap responses showed decrement in amplitude, one-third of which was attributable to failure of neuromuscular transmission and two-thirds to failure of muscle membrane excitation. on stimulation at 1 to 5 hz, the ap responses showed very little decrement, while the contractile responses showed significant fade in tension, due to failure of e-c coupling or contractility. in muscle from patients with generalized mg, stimulation of the nerve at all frequencies (1 to 100 hz) caused much greater decrement in aps and fade in tension responses than in normal muscle, due mainly to failure of neuromuscular transmission. however, at 100 hz, 40% of the decrement in aps was due to failure of muscle membrane excitation, and at 1 to 5 hz, 40% of the fade in tension was due to failure of e-c coupling or contractility, as in normal muscle. on direct stimulation the contraction and half-relaxation times were slower and the tetanic tension was smaller than in normal muscle, especially in the mg patient with thymoma. caffeine-induced contractures were smaller in mg muscle than in normal muscle. these results indicate that while the weakness of mg muscle is due mainly to failure of neuromuscular transmission, it is also partly due to reduced e-c coupling or contractility.
individual differences in children's response to pain: role of temperament and parental characteristics. sixty-five families were enlisted in a study exploring factors associated with distress behavior in 5-year-old children receiving diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis immunizations. at a home visit 1 month before the immunization, the following measures were obtained: (1) the behavioral style questionnaire, a measure of temperament: (2) parental self-reports of medically related attributes (eg. "good patient"); (3) parental attitudes toward pain in children and responsiveness to their child's pain; and (4) parental prediction of distress at upcoming immunization. the child's distress behavior during the immunization was evaluated using a modification of the procedure rating scale-revised and, after the procedure, the child's assessment of his or her pain was elicited using the oucher. children's mean procedure rating scale-revised score was 2.57 of a possible 11. thirty-one (48%) had low (less than or equal to 1) and 7 (11%) had high distress scores (greater than or equal to 2 sd above the mean). factors positively correlated with distressed behavior included more "difficult child" cluster characteristics, the individual temperamental dimension of adaptability, but few parental attitudes and attributes. parent's predictions of distress were the strongest correlates. these findings document the variation that children demonstrate in response to pain and offer some insight into associated innate and environmental factors. these results imply that treatment strategies derived from parental knowledge and tailored to individual characteristics of the child may be most effective in alleviating pain-related distress in medical settings.
age-related spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in a german community. we investigated incidence, age distribution in relation to etiology, and localization of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in 100 consecutive cases. incidence in the total population of the giessen area was estimated to be greater than 11/100,000 inhabitants/yr and increased with age. there was a trend toward higher incidence in males. overall mortality was 27%, 22% of 58 patients aged less than 70 years and 33% of 42 patients aged greater than or equal to 70 years. hypertensive putaminal hematoma showed the highest mortality rate (42%, 10 of 24 cases). chronic alcoholism and anticoagulant medication influenced the mortality rate unfavourably. we found the following localizations and etiologies to have a specific relation with age: 1) lobar hematomas from vascular malformations, group aged less than 40 years; 2) hypertensive putaminal hematomas and hypertensive thalamic hematomas, group aged 40-69 years; and 3) lobar hematomas, group aged greater than or equal to 70 years. alcoholism was an additional factor in 38% of the 13 middle-aged men with hypertensive putaminal hematomas. fourteen cases of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma were possibly due to cerebral amyloid angiopathy. six of these 14 patients had recurrent lobar hematomas, but only three of the six could be histologically investigated. in these three cases, cerebral amyloid angiopathy was proven.
proximal gastric vagotomy in the emergency treatment of bleeding duodenal ulcer. proximal gastric vagotomy for bleeding duodenal ulcer was performed in 52 low-risk patients between 1973 and 1986. duodenotomy without violation of the pylorus was done in all patients to allow inspection and control of the bleeding site. the median duration of operation was 3 hours and 20 minutes, although 25% of the procedures required 4 or more hours. there was no postoperative mortality and no early reoperations. among the six patients with postoperative complications, one rebled from the ulcer and two developed prolonged gastric atony. at the time of follow-up (median, 2.9 years), 48 of the patients were alive and 4 had died of non-ulcer causes. no patient had significant postvagotomy sequelae. ulcer recurrence was documented in six patients, and three required reoperation. proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe, effective therapy for bleeding duodenal ulcer. because of the length of the operation, it should be restricted to low-risk patients who are hemodynamically stable at the time of operation.
starch peritonitis. a case report and clinicopathologic review. a case of starch peritonitis is presented with a review of the history of this continuing problem. the syndrome's presentation, diagnosis, histopathology and treatment are discussed. the rarity of starch peritonitis today may be due to more attention to glove washing by surgeons, fewer impurities in the glove powder or lack of recognition of the syndrome. in order to prevent a resurgence of the starch peritonitis syndrome we must continue to emphasize the importance of washing gloves, maintain the quality control and purity of the powder used, and be cognizant of the signs and symptoms so that such cases may be managed nonoperatively.
chronic otitis media: the significance of nasal obstruction. the nasal airway resistance of 15 patients with unilateral chronic otitis media and 15 controls was measured by anterior active rhinomanometry. airway resistance was measured on each side before and after decongestion to differentiate resistance due to structural abnormality from that due to mucosal swelling. the nasal resistance was significantly greater (p less than 0.01) on the side of the affected ear in patients with unilateral chronic otitis media before decongestion, but following decongestion the difference was not significant. nasal obstruction is a significant determinant in unilateral chronic otitis media and although septal displacement may be the underlying cause, the major component of the obstruction appears to be due to an associated mucosal oedema.
efficacy and safety of intravenous nicardipine in the control of postoperative hypertension. iv nicardipine study group. in a double-blind, randomized, multicenter study, the efficacy and safety of intravenous (iv) nicardipine was compared with placebo in the control of postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients. one hundred twenty-two patients (17 cardiac and 105 noncardiac surgery) met the entry criteria (systolic bp greater than or equal to 140 mm hg or diastolic bp greater than or equal to 95 mm hg) and were randomized (3:2) to receive iv nicardipine (n = 71) or placebo (n = 51). therapeutic response (greater than or equal to 15 percent reduction in bp from baseline) was achieved in 94 percent of patients treated with iv nicardipine vs 12 percent with placebo (p less than 0.001). the mean response time and infusion rate for iv nicardipine were 11.5 (+/- 0.8) minutes and 12.8 (+/- 0.3) mg/h, respectively. the magnitude of bp reduction was similar in both cardiac and noncardiac postsurgical patients. blood pressure control was sustained with minimal dose adjustments of iv nicardipine (3.0 +/- 0.2 mg/h) during a prolonged maintenance infusion period of 6.8 +/- 0.5 h. a reflex mean increase in heart rate of 5 bpm was seen in patients treated with iv nicardipine. sixteen patients (15 noncardiac and one cardiac surgery) had a sustained heart rate of greater than 100 bpm, with a mean increase of 24 bpm from the baseline. in all these patients except three, tachycardia was resolved while receiving nicardipine. none of these patients who had development of tachycardia during nicardipine therapy had exhibited st segment changes indicative of ischemia. one patient with tachycardia at baseline had exhibited st segment depression (3 to 4 mm) during nicardipine treatment, which was resolved following discontinuation of nicardipine therapy and application of nitroglycerin (nitropaste). hemodynamic evaluation revealed that iv nicardipine significantly decreased mean arterial pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and significantly increased cardiac index with no change in heart rate. these hemodynamic changes were similar in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients. adverse experiences reported with iv nicardipine included hypotension (4.5 percent), tachycardia (2.7 percent), and nausea/vomiting (4.5 percent). in the placebo group, the incidence of adverse experience was 6 percent, with an equal distribution of hypotension (2 percent), nausea/vomiting (2 percent), and headache (2 percent). no clinically important changes in laboratory variables related to iv nicardipine were reported. in conclusion, these findings indicate that nicardipine, a titratable intravenous calcium channel blocker, can rapidly and effectively control postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients.
the effect of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a retrospective analysis of 108 patients. the effects of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) on vasospasm and hydrocephalus were analyzed retrospectively in 108 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) who were operated on for ruptured aneurysms within 48 hours of their onset. ninety-two of these patients underwent a procedure for csf drainage (cisternal drainage, ventricular drainage, lumbar drainage, or a combination of these). the duration, the total volume, and the average daily volume of csf drainage were 10.4 +/- 7.0 days (mean +/- sd). 2034 +/- 1566 ml, and 190 +/- 65.3 ml, respectively. patients with a greater drainage volume at a lower height of drainage in the early period after sah developed more cerebral infarctions later (p less than 0.025). the relationship between the total volume of csf removed and shunt-dependent hydrocephalus was determined to be statistically significant (p less than 0.005). cerebral infarction and hydrocephalus after sah were also found to be statistically associated (p less than 0.001). thus, continuous cerebrospinal fluid drainage should not be performed too readily in patients with sah, because the removal of a large amount of csf can induce cerebral vasospasm as well as hydrocephalus.
quantitative angiographic comparison of the immediate success of coronary angioplasty, coronary atherectomy and endoluminal stenting. coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting effectively reduce the severity of coronary artery stenoses, but direct comparisons of these interventions with conventional balloon angioplasty have not been performed. to compare the immediate efficacy of these 3 interventions, the angiographic morphology and the severity of the residual coronary stenosis were quantitatively evaluated in 18 patients undergoing coronary atherectomy and in 21 patients treated by endoluminal coronary stenting. each of these groups of patients was compared with a matched group of coronary angioplasty patients selected from a large, computerized data-base. the variables matched included patient age and sex, lesions site and severity, and lesion complexity. both coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting more effectively reduced the severity of the coronary stenosis when compared with balloon angioplasty. the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 69 +/- 10 to 22 +/- 20% in the atherectomy group compared with a reduction from 74 +/- 11 to 44 +/- 14% in the matched coronary angioplasty population (p = 0.008). similarly, the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 77 +/- 11 to 26 +/- 12% in the stented group compared with a reduction from 81 +/- 10 to 42 +/- 14% in the matched coronary angioplasty group (p = 0.014). in addition, moderate or severe coronary dissections were noted more frequently in the coronary angioplasty groups than in their respective atherectomy and stent groups (0 vs 33%, p = 0.008, and 5 vs 19%, p = 0.15, respectively).
dietary management of acute childhood diarrhea: optimal timing of feeding and appropriate use of milks and mixed diets. several recent clinical trials have examined the optimal timing of feeding and the appropriate foods for use in the dietary management of acute childhood diarrhea. important methodologic issues relevant to these trials, such as the composition and masking of study diets, measurement of outcome variables, and assessment of nutritional status, are discussed. available data suggest that feeding should be continued during diarrhea, although a small subgroup of patients receiving nonhuman milk exclusively may have an excess rate of complications. these children should be closely supervised or provided with alternative diets. by contrast, children receiving human milk, nonmilk formulas, and mixed diets are generally able to tolerate these foods and to benefit nutritionally from continued feeding.
onset of induced atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model to test the hypothesis that induced atrial flutter evolves from a transitional rhythm, the onset of 99 episodes of induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 135 +/- 18 ms) lasting greater than 5 min in 40 dogs with sterile pericarditis was first characterized. in 85 (86%) of the 99 episodes, atrial flutter was preceded by a brief period (mean 1.4 +/- 0.9 s, range 0.4 to 42) of atrial fibrillation. then, in 11 open chest studies, atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the onset of 18 episodes of induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 136 +/- 16 ms). atrial flutter was induced by a train of eight paced atrial beats, followed by one or two premature atrial beats (7 episodes) or rapid atrial pacing (11 episodes). a short period of atrial fibrillation (mean cycle length 110 +/- 7 ms) induced by atrial pacing activated the right atrium through wave fronts, which produced a localized area of slow conduction. then unidirectional conduction block of the wave front occurred for one beat in all or a portion of the area of slow conduction. this permitted the unblocked wave front to turn around an area of functional block and return through the area of slow conduction that had developed the unidirectional conduction block, thereby initiating the reentrant circuit. the location of the unidirectional block relative to the direction of the circulating wave fronts determined whether the circus movement was clockwise or counterclockwise. the area of slow conduction and unidirectional conduction block occurred where the wave front crossed perpendicular to the orientation of the atrial muscle fibers, suggesting a role for anisotropic conduction. these areas included the high right atrial portion of the sulcus terminalis (10 episodes), the low right atrial portion of the sulcus terminalis (4 episodes) and the pectinate muscle region (4 episodes). it is concluded that the development of a localized area of slow conduction in the right atrium followed by unidirectional conduction block in this area produced during a short period of atrial fibrillation or rapid atrial pacing is necessary for atrial flutter to occur in this model.
hemodynamic profiles of prostaglandin e1, isoproterenol, prostacyclin, and nifedipine in experimental porcine pulmonary hypertension. background and methods: we compared the hemodynamic effects of four vasodilators in experimental embolic pulmonary hypertension in a randomized controlled trial, using nine pigs weighing 16 to 23 kg. after anesthesia induction and cannulation with arterial, central venous, and thermodilution output pulmonary artery catheters, animals were repetitively embolized with glass beads (60 to 160 mu) in order to establish pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery pressure [pap] doubled from baseline). prostaglandin e1 (pge1), isoproterenol, prostacyclin (pgi2), and nifedipine were compared at doses producing equivalent reduction in systemic bp. results: only pge1 and pgi2 decreased both pap and pulmonary vascular resistance (pvr). pge1 decreased pap from 39 +/- 1 to 33 +/- 1 mm hg; prostacyclin decreased pap from 38 +/- 1 to 31 +/- 1 mm hg and produced the largest increase in cardiac output (qt). isoproterenol did not change pap, markedly increased heart rate (162 +/- 8 to 216 +/- 11 beats/min), and resulted in significant arrhythmias. nifedipine increased pvr from 1044 +/- 113 to 1125 +/- 100 dyne.sec.cm-5 and decreased qt. conclusions: vasodilators demonstrate unique hemodynamic drug profiles. isoproterenol infusion is characterized by tachycardia and arrhythmias. both pge1 and pgi2 effectively decrease pap and pvr. nifedipine depressed qt significantly in this glass-bead embolization model of acute pulmonary hypertension.
genetics of niddm. this brief review discusses the current level of understanding of the role of genetic defects in the etiology of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) and the use of molecular-genetic methods for this study. evidence for genetic susceptibility is strong, and defects in both insulin production and action are suspect. with restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms and genomic sequencing, various candidate loci are being evaluated. evidence that multiple genes are involved is only circumstantial. if niddm is genetically heterogeneous and also influenced by environmental components, population associations and linkage analyses in families may not be as easily interpreted as for diseases involving single major gene defects.
how and why aztreonam works. aztreonam is the first monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic (monobactam) to be tested clinically. its synthetic structure determines specific areas of activity, including enhanced activity against pseudomonas species, exceptional activity against gram-negative bacteria, stability to beta-lactamases and lack of activity against gram-positive bacteria--all of which can be directly related to its chemical composition. aztreonam has a high affinity for the protein-binding protein 3 (pbp-3) of aerobic gram-negative bacteria. most of these organisms are inhibited and killed at low concentrations of the drug. aztreonam binds poorly to pbp sites of the aerobic gram-positive and anaerobic bacteria and consequently has relatively poor inhibitory effects against these bacteria. in vitro, minimum inhibition concentration (mic) values against almost all of the enterobacteriaceae and against neisseria and haemophilus strains are typically below 1 microgram per milliliter. mic values against pseudomonas aeruginosa of 8 micrograms per milliliter are comparable with those of other antipseudomonal beta-lactams and the acylureidopenicillins. as combination therapy with amino-glycosides, aztreonam acts in synergy against p. aeruginosa, acinetobacter and gentamicin-resistant gram-negative rods. aztreonam is widely distributed in the body tissues and fluids, and the average elimination half-life is 1.7 hours. intramuscular dosing results in peak serum levels in approximately one hour, while intravenous dosing results in peak levels within five minutes. after a 2 gram dose given intravenously, mic90 values for most of the enterobacteriaceae are exceeded for eight hours, and those for p. aeruginosa, for almost six hours. the steady-state volume of distribution is approximately 0.18 liter per kilogram. concentrations above the mic90 for most gram-negative bacteria are also present within bone, prostate and cerebrospinal fluid. between 60 and 70 per cent of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine, resulting in concentrations approximating 3,000 micrograms per milliliter two hours after a 1 gram dose given intravenously. serum clearance of aztreonam is directly proportional to creatinine clearance. dosage adjustment must, therefore, be made in the presence of reduced clearance. dosing varies between 0.5 and 2.0 grams every six to 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection. the characteristics of aztreonam suggest that it is a useful nonnephrotoxic drug for treatment of aerobic gram-negative infection.
tilt test for diagnosis of unexplained syncope in pediatric patients. thirty-five teenage patients with a history of presyncope or syncope underwent a passive head-up tilting to reproduce symptoms of syncope. if tilting alone did not induce syncope, isoproterenol infusion was given to increase heart rate to 150 to 160 beats per minute. in 80% of patients with a history of syncope, identical symptoms could be reproduced during tilting: an abrupt fall in blood pressure combined with profound nodal bradycardia, ranging from 32 to 86 beats per minute. these symptoms were quickly reversed by returning the patient to the supine position. for patients with frequent occurrences of syncope, especially when there was a history of trauma sustained during these episodes, a therapeutic regimen of either beta blockers or 9 alpha-fluorocortisol was begun. the mechanisms of this common cause of syncope in childhood is neurocardiogenic in response to venous pooling and catecholamine-induced tachycardia. the tilt test is an excellent and cost-effective test for the workup of unexplained syncope in childhood.
visual loss with dancing extremities and mental disturbances. a case is reported of a teenage girl, who presented with a profound loss of vision in the right eye, secondary to retinal vasculitis. during the preceding year, a gradual change in her personality had been noted, associated with a deterioration in her intellect. she developed an area of pigment epithelial disturbance in the macular region of the right eye, and subsequently, optic atrophy. one year after this, she had a similar, but more localized episode in the left eye. she later developed involuntary movements, and two years after initial presentation, a diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis was made. subsequently her clinical condition deteriorated rapidly and she died. post-mortem examination confirmed the diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. this case demonstrates the insidious nature of the disease and suggests that the diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis should be considered in any child or young adult who presents with unexplained retinal vasculitis, maculopathy or chorioretinitis.
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy: current therapy. spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality. numerous types of surgical management have been described, but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted. the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976, as well as the 11-year experience at our institution. twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution. the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births. among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage, an 82% overall survival was achieved, whereas only 25% of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived (p = .006). hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma, packing the damaged liver, and draining the operative site. more aggressive surgical techniques, such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy, should be reserved for refractory cases.
selective dopamine da1 stimulation with fenoldopam in cirrhotic patients with ascites: a systemic, splanchnic and renal hemodynamic study. we studied the effects of fenoldopam, a selective dopamine da1 agonist on systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics, renal blood flow and sodium excretion in 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and ascites. hepatic, azygos and renal veins were catheterized before and after intravenous administration of fenoldopam, 0.05 micrograms/kg/min for 1 hr and increased to 0.1 micrograms/kg/min for another hour. mean arterial pressure progressively decreased (from 83 +/- 7 to a minimum of 77 +/- 8 mm hg 100 min after starting the infusion) but returned to baseline level at 120 min. plasma norepinephrine and renin activity increased (respectively from 567 +/- 297 to 919 +/- 375 pg/ml, p less than 0.05, and from 17 +/- 14 to 23 +/- 15 ng/ml/hr, p less than 0.05). renal blood flow, urine output or sodium excretion did not change. sodium output decreased at 1 hr from 6.9 mumol/min to 4.0 mumol/min, p less than 0.05. both hepatic venous pressure gradient and azygos blood flow significantly increased by 21%. we conclude that the acute administration of fenoldopam did not improve renal hemodynamics or function in patients with cirrhosis and ascites. in addition, dopamine da1 agonism caused further increases in norepinephrine concentration and plasma renin activity. portal pressure also increased, probably because of an increase in mesenteric blood flow. these results question the renal benefit and raise concern about the use of dopamine agonists in patients with cirrhosis and ascites.
predicting the appropriate use of carotid endarterectomy, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, and coronary angiography background and methods. in a nationally representative population 65 years of age or older, we have demonstrated that about one quarter of coronary angiographies and upper gastrointestinal endoscopies and two thirds of carotid endarterectomies were performed for reasons that were less than medically appropriate. in this paper we examine whether specific characteristics of patients (age, sex, and race), physicians (age, board-certification status, and experience with the procedure), or hospitals (teaching status, profit-making status, and size) predict whether a procedure will be performed appropriately. results. in general, we found that little of the variability in the appropriateness of care (4 percent or less) could be explained on the basis of standard, easily obtainable data about the patient, the physician, or the hospital. for all three procedures, however, performance in a teaching hospital increased the likelihood that the reasons would be medically appropriate (p = 0.09 for angiography, p = 0.30 for endoscopy, and p less than 0.01 for endarterectomy). in addition, angiographies were more often performed for appropriate reasons in older or more affluent patients (p less than 0.01 for both). being treated by a surgeon who performed a high rather than a low number of procedures decreased the likelihood of an appropriate endarterectomy by one third, from 40 to 28 percent (p less than 0.01). conclusions. appropriateness of care cannot be closely predicted from many easily determined characteristics of patients, physicians, or hospitals. thus, for the present, if appropriateness is to be improved it will have to be assessed directly at the level of each patient, hospital, and physician.
ten cases of transitional cell carcinoma of bladder causing ureteric obstruction. a review was carried out on 10 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (ta lesions) that were causing ureteric obstruction. evidence of upper tract obstruction did not necessarily indicate deep invasion.
neuro-imaging and positron emission tomography of congenital homonymous hemianopsia. congenital homonymous hemianopsia is an uncommon asymptomatic visual field defect discovered typically in young adult life that is caused by a diverse group of insults to the retrochiasmal afferent visual system occurring prenatally, at birth, or during early childhood. we treated eight patients with congenital homonymous hemianopsia; seven with damage involving the optic radiations and one with an abnormality of the optic tract. we performed positron emission tomography using 18f-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose on two patients with dense homonymous hemianopsias, lesions of the contralateral optic radiations, and largely intact occipital cortex. these studies showed minimal abnormalities in resting visual cortex glucose metabolism of the affected visual cortex.
impaired pressor reactivity in cirrhosis: evidence for a peripheral vascular defect. the blood pressure responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine and angiotensin ii, sympathetic and nonsympathetic vasoconstricting agents, respectively, were measured in 20 patients with cirrhosis (10 child-pugh grade a and 10 child-pugh grades b or c) and in 20 healthy subjects. the log pd20 (dose of agonist required to raise blood pressure by 20 mm hg) for norepinephrine was 4.78 +/- 0.36 (mean +/- s.d.) in patients with severe cirrhosis and 4.36 +/- 0.37 in controls, p less than 0.01. log pd20 for angiotensin ii was 3.16 +/- 1.06 in patients with severe cirrhosis and 1.97 +/- 0.74 in controls, p less than 0.01. cardiovascular responses to selective sympathetic agonists were measured in 10 other cirrhotic patients (all child-pugh grades b or c) and in 10 healthy controls. log pd20s for phenylephrine, an alpha-1 adrenoceptor agonist, and for alphamethylnorepinephrine; an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, were increased in cirrhosis (phenylephrine = 5.35 +/- 0.49 vs. 4.95 +/- 0.35, p less than 0.05; alphamethylnorepinephrine = 4.05 +/- 0.26 vs. 3.44 +/- 0.55, p less than 0.001). in contrast, log cd20 (dose of agonist required to raise the heart rate by 20 beats/min) for isoproterenol, a beta-adrenoceptor agonist, was similar in cirrhotic patients and controls (2.81 +/- 0.38 vs. 2.94 +/- 0.45, p = 0.49). these studies demonstrate that pressor reactivity to both sympathetic and nonsympathetic agonists is impaired in severe cirrhosis, that the impaired sympathetic responses are not caused by generalized sympathetic desensitization and that the site common to the four agonists with impaired responses is the peripheral vascular smooth muscle.
free and peptide-bound amino acids as indicators of ischemic damage of the rabbit spinal cord. the concentrations of free and peptide-bound amino acids aspartate (asp), glutamate (glu), glycine (gly) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) were studied following ischemia and recirculation in the ventral and dorsal gray matter of the rabbit spinal cord. no changes in the concentration of amino acids following ten minutes (min) of ischemia and four days of recovery were found. the most significant change after 20 min, and especially 40 min, of ischemia was a decrease in free asp and gaba levels in both parts of the gray matter. the relatively greater decrease in the concentration of free amino acids in the ventral horns corresponds with the greater morphological damage to this part of spinal cord following ischemia. following 40 min of ischemia and recirculation decrease in peptide-bound glu in the ventral horns and asp and glu in the dorsal horns was found.
surgical management of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancies. comparison of subxiphoid window versus pericardiectomy. there is a lack of consensus regarding optimal surgical management of symptomatic pericardial effusions in patients with malignancies. subxiphoid pericardial window formation (subxiphoid pericardial drainage) has been considered a safe and effective method for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. to ensure adequate drainage, many surgeons prefer the formation of a larger pericardial window by performing either an anterior thoracotomy or a partial/total pericardiectomy. to evaluate the efficacy of these methods for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy, 28 consecutive pericardial surgery cases involving patients with malignancy were retrospectively analyzed. ten patients (group 1) had subxiphoid window formation, whereas 18 patients (group 2) had partial or total pericardiectomy or pericardial window formation by anterior thoracotomy. there was no statistically significant difference (p = 0.22) in the survival rates between these two groups. a median survival time of 2.67 months (range, 0.43 to 26.6 months) was observed in group 1 versus 1.23 months (range, 0.03 to 10.83 months) in group 2. however, a statistically significant difference (p less than or equal to 0.02) in postoperative morbidity was observed between the two groups: 67% in group 2 versus 10% in group 1. because of lower morbidity, subxiphoid pericardial window formation is recommended by this study as the preferred surgical method for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy.
pharmacology of recovery after stroke. laboratory research during the past decade has begun to provide insights into the neurobiologic basis of functional recovery after brain injury. it is clear that drugs influencing specific neurotransmitters also can influence the recovery process. some of these drugs may be beneficial, but others may be detrimental. some of the difficulties in interpreting the results of these behavioral studies are reviewed, and potential mechanisms of drug effects are discussed. these types of studies are leading to an increased awareness of the potentially harmful effects of some drugs often given to stroke patients. pharmacotherapy designed to enhance functional recovery after stroke may be possible in the future.
significance of anti-hbx antibodies in hepatitis b virus infection. serological responses to hepatitis b virus-x determinants have been noted in human sera, but conflicting findings concerning the correlation of anti-hbx antibodies with different stages of hepatitis b virus infection or pathological sequelae have been reported. using an adenovirus-based eukaryotic vector, the 17 kd x protein was efficiently expressed in 293 cells. cellular extracts containing the eukaryotic x protein have been used to screen for anti-hbx antibodies by immunoblot analysis in a large panel of sera from patients affected by hepatitis b virus chronic hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute viral hepatitis. sera from 32 of 171 (19%) chronic hepatitis b virus patients were positive for anti-hbx antibodies. only one of thirty-two (3%) hbsag-negative, anti-hbs/anti-hbc-positive chronic hepatitis serum was anti-hbx positive. very few sera from primary hepatocellular carcinoma patients showed positivity for anti-hbx (8 of 149 or 5%). anti-hbx were also detected in 8 of 48 (17%) acute viral hepatitis patients. in the four cases that were followed up weekly, anti-hbx antibodies appeared 3 to 4 wk after the onset of the clinical signs. to compare the x protein expressed in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells as a substrate for anti-hbx antibody detection, 171 sera were screened with hbx fusion proteins expressed in escherichia coli. the prokaryotic cell extract test seems to be more sensitive. during the chronic phase of hepatitis b virus infection, the presence of anti-hbx antibodies detected with the eukaryotic cell extract correlates with the presence of well-established markers of ongoing viral replication: serum hepatitis b virus-dna (p less than 0.001) and intrahepatic hbcag expression (p less than 0.001).
follicular cell predominance in the cytologic examination of dominant thyroid nodules indicates a sixty percent incidence of neoplasia. the interpretation of aspiration cytologic smears that contain a predominance of follicular components often presents a dilemma to the clinician who is treating a patient who has a dominant thyroid nodule, especially when thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression does not produce any significant involution of the dominant nodule. we reviewed a consecutive series of 555 fine-needle aspiration cytologic examinations of dominant thyroid nodules. all specimens that contained colloid or follicular cells mixed with lymphocytes or hurthle cells were excluded from this review. additionally, nine aspirates contained degenerated follicular cells with insufficient material for cytologic diagnosis. the remaining 76 specimens contained a predominance of follicular cells: 27 specimens were interpreted as containing "normal" follicular cells, and the remaining 49 specimens were read as "atypical" follicular cells. histopathologic examination of the resected specimens indicated a 60% incidence of neoplasia (30% carcinoma, 30% adenoma) in which the aspiration cytologic study was interpreted as "normal" follicular cells. on the other hand, a 63% incidence of neoplasia (27% carcinoma, 36% adenoma) occurred in which the cytologic study was read as "atypical." in conclusion, aspirates showing a predominance of follicular cells, whether "normal" or "atypical" indicate a 60% incidence of neoplasia in dominant thyroid nodules that do not decrease significantly in size with thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression.
unfavorable outcome following early surgical repair of ruptured cerebral aneurysms--a critical review of 238 patients. among 238 consecutive patients admitted early with ruptured cerebral aneurysms, surgical repair within 48-72 hours was feasible in 200 cases. unfavorable outcomes among the latter 200 patients are analyzed and discussed in this paper. preoperatively, 148 patients were in hunt and hess grades i-iii, 33 were in grade iv, and 19 in grade v. after clipping of the aneurysm, all patients received a regimen of topical intracisternal and intravenous/peroral medication with the calcium antagonist nimodipine. the overall rate of unfavorable outcomes was 25%, ie, outcome with moderate or severe deficit or lethal outcome. the reasons for unfavorable outcomes among these 49 patients were the devastating effect of the bleed (severe subarachnoid hemorrhage or additional intracerebral hemorrhage) in 31 patients (15% of the 200 patients), a surgical complication in 11 (5.5%), preoperative rebleeding in three (1.5%), delayed ischemia from vasospasm in one (0.5%), and various others in three further patients (1.5%). unfavorable outcome occurred in 11% of patients with preoperative grades i-iii, in 52% of patients with grade iv, and in 16 of 19 patients with grade v. among the 141 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage but not intracerebral or intraventricular hematoma, 16 made an unfavorable outcome, ie, 11% versus 56% among patients with intracerebral hematoma/intraventricular hematoma on preoperative computed tomography scan. the present data seem to speak in favor of early surgery. since half of the patients with intracerebral hematoma and poor outcome had suffered previous warning leaks, it appears to be a continuing challenge to diagnose warning leaks before a massive hemorrhage occurs.
heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant wilson's disease. wilson's disease may present with severe acute hepatocellular failure. the only effective treatment for fulminant wilson's disease is liver transplantation, which may lead to reversal of the underlying disease. some patients with cirrhosis who are too ill to undergo orthotopic liver transplantation have been treated with heterotopic liver transplantation. however, use of heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant hepatocellular failure has not been successful. this case study involves a patient in whom a heterotopic liver transplant was successfully used for treatment of wilson's disease presenting with fulminant hepatocellular failure.
comparison of right ventricular and biventricular circulatory support in a porcine model of right heart failure. the effects of right ventricular (rvad) and biventricular assist devices (bvad) in an acute porcine model of right heart ischemic failure produced by occluding the right coronary artery for 2 min (rcao) were compared. right and left ventricular pressures were measured with millar transducers and respective septal-to-free wall dimensions (rvsfwd, lvsfwd) with ultrasonic crystals. rcao alone resulted in significant right heart failure, marked by a 36 +/- 5% reduction in cardiac output (pulmonary artery flow) and a 54 +/- 16% reduction in rv stroke work. isolated rvad significantly improved the hemodynamic conditions by restoring pulmonary blood flow and left heart filling to control levels. rvad also resulted in reduced rvsfwd to control levels and increased lvsfwd via a rightward septal shift due to right heart unloading. biventricular support resulted in the same hemodynamic improvement, but estimated lv peak systolic wall stress was reduced by 65 +/- 15% compared with control, due to concomitant lv unloading and reductions in lvsfwd. therefore, either right or biventricular devices are effective in treating rv failure. the advantage of biventricular support is that the left ventricle is also unloaded, thus allowing improved circulatory support with minimal lv wall stress.
dietary intake in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids), patients with aids-related complex, and serologically positive human immunodeficiency virus patients: correlations with nutritional status. one of the major clinical manifestations of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) and aids-related complex (arc) is the development of cachexia. this most likely results from a multifactorial interplay of poor diet, malabsorption, and altered metabolism. to assess the potential role of nutrient intake in the development or persistence of malnutrition, a detailed analysis was performed of a 72-hr diet record in clinically stable patients with aids (n = 18), arc (n = 12) and in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) seropositive controls without significant manifestations of disease (n = 13). total calorie intake was 39.1 +/- 13.2 kcal/kg/day in aids patients vs 34.6 +/- 7.8 kcal/kg/day in arc patients or 31.9 +/- 17.7 kcal/kg/day in hiv seropositive cases (all p = ns). likewise, mean protein intakes were similar among the groups and exceeded recommended daily dietary allowance (rda) guidelines. the mean body weight changes from the inception of illness were -11 +/- 1% in aids, -6 +/- 7% in arc, vs +3 +/- 2% in hiv-seropositive-only cases (p less than 0.05 vs aids and arc). dietary vitamin and mineral analysis revealed that 88% of aids, 88% of hiv seropositive, and 89% of arc patients were ingesting less than 50% rda for at least one nutrient. the mean number of deficiencies per patient was 1.8 +/- 1.3 in aids, 3.8 +/- 3.5 in arc, and 2.9 +/- 2.5 in hiv-seropositive-only cases (p less than 0.05 aids vs arc). there were no significant correlations between specific anthropometric measurements and dietary intakes of protein or fat.
intermittent obstruction of an incarcerated hiatal hernia with a total thoracic stomach. a case of intermittent obstruction of a sliding hiatal hernia is presented. the obstruction occurred when the patient's stomach was totally above the diaphragm. the anatomy of sliding hiatal hernias is discussed, as well as the presenting signs and symptoms of obstruction in sliding hiatal hernias.
trochanteric fractures. influence of reduction and implant position on impaction and complications. a review of roentgenograms and charts was made of 532 trochanteric fractures treated by the sliding-screw technique. according to evans' modified classification, 65% of the fractures were unstable. there was no breakage or bending of implants. twenty (3.8%) reoperations were performed because of technical complications or nonunion. the singh index revealed more unstable fractures and technical complications in hips with grades 1-3 than in hips with grades 4-6. reoperation was more frequent if the screw tip was within 8 mm from the subchondral line in the superolateral quadrant or in the anteroproximal quadrant than if the screw ended farther from the subchondral line. fifty-five (10.8%) of the lag screws migrated 2 mm or more. postoperatively, the neck-shaft angle decreased more in unstable fractures than in stable fractures. the decrease in neck-shaft angle was less when the proximal fragment impinged medially on the shaft fragment. unstable fractures with this type of reduction also impacted less than hips with anatomic reduction or medial reduction of the shaft fragment. weight bearing did not significantly influence the degree of impaction.
the use of monoclonal antibody 44-3a6 in cell blocks in the diagnosis of lung carcinoma, carcinomas metastatic to lung and pleura, and pleural malignant mesothelioma. monoclonal antibody (moab) 44-3a6 recognizes a glandular differentiation-associated antigen and has been used to identify exocrine differentiation in pulmonary carcinomas. the authors assessed its value in the diagnosis of lung carcinomas metastatic to lung/pleura and pleural malignant mesothelioma (mm), using cell blocks derived from cytologic specimens. sixty-three primary lung carcinomas, 31 metastatic adenocarcinomas (acs) (from breast, gastrointestinal tract, or genitourinary tract), and 36 mms were immunostained with 44-3a6, leu-m1, and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (cea). the results confirm the value of 44-3a6 in identifying acs but do not allow distinction between those of pulmonary, breast, git, or ovarian mucinous derivation. endometrial, ovarian serous, and renal acs are essentially nonreactive, as are almost all mms. the occurrence of one positive mm predicates caution in interpreting 44-3a6 positivity in isolation, but, judiciously used with other discriminating antibodies such as leu-m1 and anti-cea, 44-3a6 is of value in the differential diagnosis of acs and mms. further, its applicability to cytologic specimens may obviate the need for more invasive diagnostic procedures and lead to rapid, accurate diagnosis.
physiologic and psychobehavioral research in oncology. a major thrust in research in psychosocial oncology is the study of the interaction of psychologic and physiologic variables. this discussion reviews the current status and future directions of such research. areas addressed include pain, nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy, sexuality, effects of cancer on psychologic and neuropsychologic function, impact of psychologic factors on cancer and its treatment, and psychoneuroimmunology. in addition, specific recommendations for strategies to facilitate research in these areas of psychosocial oncology are proposed.
mastectomy following preoperative chemotherapy. strict operative criteria control operative morbidity. the surgical morbidity associated with aggressive preoperative chemotherapy in 106 patients with advanced primary breast cancer who had chemotherapy followed by mastectomy was examined. these patients were compared with a group of 91 consecutive patients who had mastectomy without preoperative chemotherapy. strict operative criteria were used to determine the timing of mastectomy following chemotherapy. wound infection rates were no different in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone groups (7% versus 4%; p = 0.62). the incidence of wound necrosis was similar (11% versus 6%; p = 0.29). seroma formation was decreased significantly in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone group (15% versus 28%; p = 0.04). intensive preoperative chemotherapy did not delay the reinstitution of postoperative treatment (30% versus 20%; p = 0.27). however, when delay in instituting postoperative chemotherapy was more than 30 days, there was a significant decrease in overall survival rate (p = 0.04). this study provides evidence that intensive preoperative chemotherapy and mastectomy can be performed without increased morbidity. furthermore it is important to institute systemic chemotherapy within 30 days of mastectomy to achieve maximum survival.
effects of long-term coenzyme q10 and captopril treatment on survival and functional capacity in rats with experimentally induced heart infarction. the effects of coenzyme q10 (coq) and captopril on functional capacity, hemodynamics and survival were studied in 154 rats that recovered after experimental myocardial infarction. rats were randomized into four groups receiving either coq, captopril, a combination of the two drugs or 1 ml of tap water once daily for 12 weeks from the day of coronary artery ligation. coq as well as captopril and the combined treatment significantly improved exercise capacity as evaluated by lactate production during a standardized treadmill exercise test. no significant changes in heart rate or mean blood pressure were observed during the study in the captopril-treated group. coq treatment increased the maximum heart rate significantly, whereas no effect on mean blood pressure was observed. both captopril and coq decreased pulmonary congestion. furthermore, the data may suggest that captopril prevents right ventricular hypertrophy seen in placebo-treated rats with large infarcts. this was not observed after coq treatment. captopril treatment improved 3-month probability of survival (93%) as compared with placebo (74%) (p less than .05). coq and the combined treatment tended to improve survival, but this was, however, not statistically significant.
the anatomy and physiology of nerve injury. nerves have a structure of considerable complexity with features of special relevance to nerve injury and nerve regeneration. these include variations in the cross-sectional areas devoted to fascicular and epineurial tissue, the fascicular redistribution and mixing of different branch fibers brought about by fascicular plexuses, and the numbers of nerve fibers representing individual branches. the elasticity and tensile strength of nerve trunks and their capacity to resist traction deformation reside in the fascicular tissue, while the epineurium provides a protective cushion against compression. the microstructure of nerve trunks provides the basis for a classification of nerve injuries into five degrees of severity with partial and mixed types--each with a clearly defined pathology and distinguishing clinical features. following a transection injury, changes occur in the severed axons, endoneurial tubes, fasciculi, and nerve trunk. the type of injury and the nature of these changes determine the outcome of axon regeneration.
insulin-like growth factor i expression by tumors of neuroectodermal origin with the t(11;22) chromosomal translocation. a potential autocrine growth factor. expression of insulin-like growth factor i (igf-i) mrna by some tumor cell lines of neuroectodermal origin has been described. to further explore the significance of igf-i mrna expression in these tumors, a more extensive analysis was performed. most (9 of 10) neuroectodermal tumor cell lines with a t(11;22) translocation (primitive neuroectodermal tumor [pnet], ewing's sarcoma, esthesioneuroblastoma) expressed igf-i mrna, whereas 0 of 15 cell lines without the translocation (pnet, neuroblastoma) expressed igf-i. furthermore, inasmuch as all neuroblastoma (12 of 12) cell lines examined expressed igf-ii rna, the pattern of igf expression could distinguish between these closely related tumors. chp-100, a pnet cell line with the t(11;22) translocation, was shown to secrete both igf-i protein and an igf binding protein, igfbp-2. this cell line also expressed the type i igf receptor mrna, and blockade of this receptor by a monoclonal antibody (alpha ir3) inhibited serum-free growth. these data demonstrate that igf-i expression is a property of neuroectodermal tumors with a t(11;22) translocation and that interruption of an igf-i autocrine loop inhibits the growth of these tumor cells.
postoperative lumbar spinal instability occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy. the manifestations and pathomechanism of postoperative lumbar spinal instability, occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy, was clarified by means of functional radiographic analysis in a series of 46 patients over 40 years of age. the relation between instability and the clinical symptoms also is discussed. in patients under 60 years of age, instability at the operated level tended to appear in cases of wide laminectomy more often than in cases of partial laminectomy. occurrence or progress of instability seems to be promoted by resection of the posterior spinal elements rather than the disc. it is further considered that the postoperative aggravation of clinical symptoms may be influenced not only by instability, but also by the other factors.
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker. phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals. its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer, safer drugs. we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache. he developed grand mal seizures, coma, hypotension, respiratory and renal failure, and hepatic injury. serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml. the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis.
botulinum a toxin for the treatment of adult-onset spasmodic torticollis. thirty-five patients with adult-onset idiopathic torticollis were treated by local injections of botulinum a toxin into dystonic cervical muscles. substantial improvement with respect to reduction and elimination of pain was found in 81 percent, improvement in posture deformity and involuntary spasms in 70 percent, increased range of motion of the neck in 78 percent, reduction in visible sternocleidomastoid hypertrophy in 86 percent, and improvement in tremor in 65 percent. the syndrome was divided into four subtypes based on pattern of dystonic muscle groups involved in the dystonia, head and shoulder posture, and sternocleidomastoid muscle hypertrophy. injection strategy based on this subdivision is described.
involvement of sodium in the protective effect of 5-(n,n-dimethyl)-amiloride on ischemia-reperfusion injury in isolated rat ventricular wall. during reperfusion in the isolated right ventricular wall of the rat after 60 min of ischemia, developed tension and resting tension were 35 +/- 4 and 221 +/- 12%, respectively, of preischemic values. including 35 microm ouabain in the perfusate before and after ischemia resulted in more severe cardiac dysfunction during reperfusion than in drug-untreated hearts. introduction of the na(+)-h+ exchange inhibitor, 5-(n,n-dimethyl)-amiloride (dma), could effectively protect the right ventricular wall against ischemia-reperfusion dysfunction in the presence or absence of ouabain. the ion content in the right ventricular wall was measured with atomic absorbance spectrophotometry. before ischemia, na+,ca++ and k+ content were 53.4 +/- 6.4, 2.70 +/- 0.22 and 262 +/- 7.7 mumol/g of dry weight tissue, respectively. after 60 min of ischemia and 6 min of reperfusion, na+,ca++ and k+ content were 73.4 +/- 7.2, 3.79 +/- 0.31 and 180 +/- 15 mumol/g of dry weight tissue, respectively (p less than .05). introduction of 20 microm dma normalized ion content in the muscles which was consistent with the contractile function recovery during reperfusion. the data suggest that a rise in intracellular na+ in the early stage of reperfusion represents a crucial or primary step for the development of cardiac contractile dysfunction. dma, which protects against severe reperfusion-induced cardiac contractile dysfunction, appears to act via a normalization of tissue sodium levels. this action is consistent with its proposed role as a blocker of transsarcolemmal na(+)-h+ exchange.
assessment of major venous anomalies by computerized tomography. congenital anomalies of major venous structures are not common but their identification and relative position, particularly in relation to an abdominal aortic aneurysm, are of significant value in planning and conducting aortic operations. computed tomography (ct) has become a common method of preoperative evaluation of aortic disease. its reliability in providing accurate information regarding aneurysmal size, configuration, and extension, as well as the presence of intraluminal thrombus and involvement of the renal and iliac arteries, has been demonstrated. simultaneous visualization of the major adjacent venous structures with the use of contrast enhancement is obtained, but anatomic variants can be overlooked because they are commonly subtle and considered incidental. the preoperative diagnosis of these venous abnormalities is significant to the vascular surgeon. such information can be accurately and reliably acquired with the present ct techniques without the need for further diagnostic studies.
the cellular composition of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland: an immunohistochemical analysis. four cases of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland were examined immunohistochemically to characterize their cellular composition. in all cases epithelial membrane antigen and keratin were detected in the inner luminal cells; some cells also showed positive staining for secretory functional markers, indicating their differentiation toward secretory epithelium. in tubular and trabecular types the outer cells consistently displayed an intense staining for vimentin and some were also positive for actin, indicating their myoepithelial nature. in the solid type, most tumor cells resembled the ductal cells or basal cells of larger ducts in normal gland with regard to their immunoreactivity. our results may suggest that the proportion and arrangement of heterogeneous tumor cells are responsible for different histologic patterns of the salivary basal cell adenoma.
immunophenotypic aberrancy in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia. some recent reports indicate a high frequency of immunophenotypic aberrancy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). to investigate this issue with regard to adult all, the authors reviewed the immunophenotyping data from 39 cases analyzed in their clinical laboratory. flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood and/or bone marrow was performed with the use of a panel of 21 b-cell, t-cell, and myeloid monoclonal antibodies (moabs). the surface antigen profiles of the leukemic cells were compared with those of normal bone marrow and thymic counterparts, as defined by current models. twenty-six cases were b-precursor all, 8 were t-all, and 3 were b-all (burkitt's leukemia). only two cases coexpressed lymphoid and myeloid antigens. in contrast, intralineage aberrancy was quite common. immunophenotypes from 13 of 26 b-precursor all cases deviated from normal b-lineage marrow cells as defined by a recent classification. the t-all cases were also immunophenotypically heterogeneous. this high incidence of aberrant antigen expression in adult all suggests that leukemogenesis also involves aberrant differentiation rather than purely a process of maturational arrest.
effects of the novel thromboxane antagonist bay u 3405 on experimental coronary artery disease. bay u 3405 is a novel thromboxane receptor blocker. the present investigations describe its effects on experimental canine and porcine cardiac damage. in anesthetized dogs, a coronary artery was occluded for 6 hours and reperfused for 30 minutes. bay u 3405 was administered intravenously 15 minutes after occlusion (1 mg/kg) followed by infusion of 10 mg/kg/hr from 30 minutes after ligature. in a second study, the effects of bay u 3405 on endoperoxide analogue u-46619-induced coronary constriction were studied in anesthetized, open-chest pigs. bay u 3405 reduced myocardial infarct expansion by 65% (p less than 0.01) assessed with biochemical staining. hemodynamics and collateral blood flow were unaffected. however, reperfusion arrhythmias were suppressed. in porcine experiments, 1 mg/kg bay u 3405, given intravenously or intraduodenally, antagonized u-46619-induced coronary vasoconstriction over 5 hours. the studies demonstrate anti-ischemic and antivasoconstrictor properties of bay u 3405 probably due to binding to platelet and smooth muscle thromboxane receptors. this may have clinical relevance in angina pectoris and myocardial infarction.
association of treacher collins syndrome and translocation 6p21.31/16p13.11: exclusion of the locus from these candidate regions. treacher collins syndrome (tcs) is an autosomal dominant defect of craniofacial development which has not been chromosomally localized. we have identified a mother and two children who have tcs and also a balanced translocation t(6;16)(p21.31;p13.11), which suggested the possibility that the tcs locus might be located at one of the translocation breakpoints. these were defined by in-situ hybridization as 6p21.31 (by using loci in the hla complex defined by the probes p45.1dp beta 003/hla-dpb2 and prs5.10/hla class i chain) and 16p13.11 (by using probes pachf1.3.2/d16s8 and vk45/d16s131). pairwise and multipoint linkage analysis using localized chromosome 6 probes and chromosome 16 probes in 12 unrelated tcs families with multiple affected siblings excluded the tcs locus from proximity to both translocation breakpoints. these data were confirmed when a third affected child, who did not exhibit the translocation, was born to the mother.
diagnostic value of a new myocardial perfusion agent, teboroxime (so 30,217), utilizing a rapid planar imaging protocol: preliminary results [corrected and republished with original paging, article originally printed in j am coll cardiol 1990 oct;16(4):855-61] technetium-99m-labeled agents have advantages over thallium-201 in terms of photon statistics, cost and clinical availability. they have been suggested as an alternative to thallium for myocardial perfusion imaging. teboroxime is a new boronic acid adduct of technetium dioxime (bato) compound that demonstrates favorable characteristics in preliminary studies. with use of a novel (seated) patient positioning technique and a rapid dynamic acquisition protocol, 30 patients underwent planar imaging with teboroxoime while at rest and after maximal treadmill exercise. postexercise scans were completed in an average time (mean +/- sd) of 4.4 +/- 1.6 min, with 4.8 +/- 1.5 min for the views at rest. these results were compared with coronary arteriography or thallium scintigraphy after treadmill exercise, or both. diagnostic agreement (abnormal versus normal) was present in 28 of the 30 patients (p less than 0.001). regarding physiologic assessment as compared with thallium scintigraphy, the finding of infarction and ischemia was concordant in 89% and 86% of patients, respectively. this report describes the initial use of teboroxime with a rapid dynamic planar imaging technique, resulting in a high correlation with exercise thallium scintigraphy. delayed postexercise images obtained 5 to 10 min after exercise demonstrated rapid disappearance of exercise-induced defects noted on the initial (0 to 5 min) postexercise views. the rapid differential washout with teboroxime has not been previously described and the possible clinical significance is discussed.
'locked-in syndrome' for 27 years following a viral illness: clinical and pathologic findings. we describe a man who, after a presumed encephalitic illness, was "locked-in" for 27 years. his ct and autopsy findings showed atrophy of the brainstem and a cystic lesion at the base of the pons. he survived longer than most other patients in a similar state.
treatment of idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis by immunosuppression. idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis is exceedingly uncommon in childhood and its etiology is uncertain. support for an immunological basis for the disease is given by a report of a 14-year-old girl with severe retroperitoneal fibrosis causing progressive azotemia in whom azathioprine and prednisolone were used successfully. this case supports the efficacy of immunotherapy in the treatment of idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis.
progression through the cell cycle: an overview. tissues in adults can be maintained at constant mass or they can increase or decrease in size because of imbalances of synthetic and degradative processes acting at the cellular and molecular levels. some size changes are caused by physiologic conditions to which the tissue must adjust. alternatively, the balance may be distorted in favor of net tissue increase in pathologic situations such as cancer. strict regulatory mechanisms are required to keep proliferation responsive to the organism's needs; these mechanisms may be defective in disease. net tissue proliferation requires repeated rounds of cell duplication in excess of that necessary to counterbalance cell death. duplication of a cell requires a net doubling of its every molecule and structure. the myriad of molecular events required for cell proliferation such as dna duplication and its partitioning at mitosis are tightly regulated in normal cells. one may conceive of two classes of molecules: those required for "housekeeping," which constitute the cell's structural and functional machinery, and those such as growth factors, their receptors, and second messengers involved in signal transduction responsible for regulating the activities of the housekeeping molecules. these molecular events and the cascade of processes that control them can be organized within the sequence of the cell cycle. in this brief overview, we illustrate these issues with a few examples taken from very recent discoveries of novel proteins that appear to have major regulatory roles. most of these results have been obtained with mammalian fibroblasts, but some have originated with discoveries made using two very different yeasts.
effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma. in 19 months, a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases (179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage, younger than 70 years; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis, aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women). of the 660 cases, 22 hcc cases (3.3%) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination. four of those cases (18%) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter, and 11 cases (50%) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm. surgical resection was performed on 12 cases (55%). in comparison with the control group (83 hcc cases not receiving any periodic checkup), the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher. this examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma.
a distinctive triad of malformations of the central nervous system in the meckel-gruber syndrome. a distinct triad of central nervous system (cns) malformations (prosencephalic dysgenesis, occipital exencephalocele and rhombic roof dysgenesis) was present in seven cases of the meckel-gruber syndrome examined at autopsy. we compared our findings with those previously described. microcephaly, sloping forehead, posterior occipital exencephalocele, cerebellar hypoplasia, chiari malformation, hydrocephalus, polymicrogyria, arhinencephaly, holoprosencephaly and anencephaly constituted a broad spectrum of the reported cns anomalies. few reports contained a comprehensive description of the observed cns malformations. in those reports, and in our cases, features of prosencephalic dysgenesis included agenesis of olfactory bulbs and tracts (arhinencephaly), hypoplasia of optic nerves and chiasm, agenesis of corpus callosum, fused thalami or complete holoprosencephaly. the occipital encephalocele has consisted of a displacement of rhombic roof elements, including caudal third ventricle, cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle, extruded through an enlarged posterior fontanelle rather than through an occipital cranium bifidum and is thus more precisely labeled an exencephalocele. different degrees of dysgenesis of posterior fossa structures, described by some as a variant of dandy-walker cyst with features of a chiari malformation, were often associated with this occipital exencephalocele. this pattern of cns anomalies represents a triad of malformations probably associated with defective ventral induction of the developing cns by the prechordal mesoderm.
sequential esophageal motility studies after endoscopic injection sclerotherapy: a prospective investigation. to assess prospectively the effects of endoscopic intravariceal sclerosis (eis) on esophageal function, we performed esophageal manometry on 13 cirrhotic patients before eis, 24 h after the second session and 4 wk after the fourth session. eis had no impact on lower esophageal sphincter pressure. however, a significant decrease in the amplitude of peristaltic waves was observed immediately post-eis in the lower two-thirds of the esophagus. there was no modification of duration or velocity of progression of peristaltic waves. a four-fold increase in simultaneous contractions was observed early after eis. these changes were reversible, as assessed by late esophageal testing after eis. no correlations were demonstrated between esophageal motor parameters and doses of sclerosant. we conclude that sclerosant injection into the esophageal wall acutely impairs esophageal motility, but motor function is partially restored 4 wk after completion of eis, suggesting that dysmotility is reversible.
itraconazole therapy in aspergillosis: study in 49 patients. itraconazole, 200 to 400 mg once daily, was administered to 49 patients with different types of aspergillosis: pulmonary aspergilloma (14 patients), chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis (14), and invasive aspergillosis (21). itraconazole was prescribed alone or in combination or after treatment with amphotericin b and flucytosine. of 14 aspergilloma patients, 2 were cured and 8 had symptomatic improvement. in chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis, 7 of 14 patients were cured and 6 improved significantly. in invasive aspergillosis treatment failed in 6 patients and 15 were cured. itraconazole can be an alternative to amphotericin b in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis. in aspergilloma itraconazole may be useful in inoperable cases.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xxii. reperfusate composition: effects of leukocyte depletion of blood and blood cardioplegic reperfusates after acute coronary occlusion. objectives: this study evaluates the role of leukocyte depletion during initial reoxygenation with normal blood and blood cardioplegic reperfusates in limiting reperfusion damage. methods: twenty-eight dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. the initial reperfusate (37 degrees c) was delivered on total vented bypass to the left anterior descending artery by a calibrated pump via an internal mammary artery graft at 50 mm hg for 20 minutes. eight dogs received normal (normokalemic, nonenriched) blood reperfusion (leukocyte count 8000/mm3) and six were reperfused with leukocyte-depleted normal blood (leukocyte count less than 100/mm3). of 14 dogs reperfused with substrate-enriched (hyperkalemic) blood cardioplegic solution, six received a cardioplegic solution with a leukocyte count less than 100/mm3. results: leukocyte depletion of normal blood reduced reperfusion-induced arrhythmias from 63% to 17% (p less than 0.05). coronary vascular resistance at initial reperfusion was low and remained low during substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic reperfusion with both normal and reduced leukocyte counts. in contrast, coronary vascular resistance rose 63% with normal blood reperfusion, and this increase was avoided by leukocyte depletion (2.6 versus 4.0 mm hg x ml/min, p less than 0.05). coronary vascular resistance after 20 minutes was, however, higher than that with blood cardioplegia with normal or decreased leukocyte counts. negligible functional recovery followed reperfusion with normal blood and leukocyte-depleted blood (12% and 6% of control systolic shortening). in contrast, substantial segmental recovery followed blood cardioplegic reperfusion (73% systolic shortening, p less than 0.05) but was not improved by leukopheresis (81% systolic shortening). leukocyte depletion of normal blood reperfusate reduced histochemical damage from 53% to 38% (p less than 0.05), but the least histochemical damage followed blood cardioplegic reperfusion with a normal or reduced leukocyte count (8% or 11%, p less than 0.05). conclusions: these findings suggest an important role for leukocytes in reperfusion damage, but reperfusate leukocyte filtration alone is inferior to blood cardioplegic reperfusion. leukocyte depletion of blood cardioplegic solutions seems unnecessary after only 2 hours of ischemia.
is routine preoperative hemodynamic evaluation of nonagenarians necessary? an incidence of co-morbid cardiac disease in the elderly surgical patient as high as 66% has been previously reported. even in the absence of clinically significant cardiac disease, advanced age alone is often considered sufficient indication for swan-ganz placement, hemodynamic evaluation, adjustment of fluid states, and inotropic support. yet data clearly documenting the need for this evaluation and therapy are difficult to obtain. all major general surgical and orthopedic operations in non-agenarians were reviewed in our institution from july 1, 1987 through december 31, 1988. fifty-one procedures were performed on 46 patients. none of these patients had preoperative swan-ganz catheterization or hemodynamic evaluation. eighteen general surgical, 30 orthopedic, 2 neurosurgical, and 1 gynecological procedures were performed. forty-three were performed under general anesthesia, 7 under spinal anesthesia, and 1 with local anesthesia. seven out of 51 patients (14%) experienced major complications, and 16 out of 51 (31%) experienced minor complications. thirty-day mortality was 0%, and 6-month survival was 92%. only one complication occurred within 48 hours of surgery that might possibly have been prevented with hemodynamic evaluation, adjustment of fluid status, inotropic support, and intensive care unit monitoring.
multiple parathyroid adenomas: report of thirty-three cases. an increasing number of patients with primary hyperparathyroidism are found to have two or three enlarged parathyroid glands. of 865 patients successfully operated on by one surgeon (j.n.a.), multiple enlarged parathyroid glands (adenomas) were found and resected in 33 cases (3.8%), with resulting normocalcemia lasting from 1 to 22 years (mean 5.8). twenty-nine patients had two adenomas and four had three adenomas. in 28 patients the multiple adenomas were synchronous. twenty-five patients underwent removal of all of the enlarged parathyroid glands in one operation; in three patients one adenoma was removed, reoperation for persistent hypercalcemia was performed, and a second adenoma was resected with cure. in five patients one adenoma was removed, normocalcemia ensued for 3 to 18 years, and a second (metachronous) adenoma occurred and was resected successfully. although 10 of 70 enlarged parathyroid glands removed were labeled hyperplasia, cure in all but one of our patients by selective resection of only enlarged parathyroid glands emphasizes the unreliability of histologic criteria in differentiating between parathyroid adenoma and hyperplasia. based on this study, we support the existence of multiple adenomas and advocate removal of only macroscopically enlarged parathyroid glands in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.
developmental changes in vascular responses to histamine in normoxic and hypoxic lamb lungs. this study of newborn (3-10 day old) and juvenile (6-8 mo old) in situ isolated lamb lungs was undertaken to determine whether 1) histamine receptor blockade accentuates hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction more in newborns than in juveniles, 2) histamine infusion causes a decrease in both normoxic pulmonary vascular resistance and hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in newborns, and 3) the h1-mediated dilator response to infused histamine in newborns is due to enhanced dilator prostaglandin release. pulmonary arterial pressure (ppa) was determined at baseline and in response to histamine (infusion rates of 0.1-10.0 micrograms.kg-1 min-1) in control, h1-blocked, h2-blocked, combined h1- and h2-blocked, and cyclooxygenase-inhibited h2-blocked lungs under "normoxic" (inspired o2 fraction 0.28) and hypoxic (inspired o2 fraction 0.04) conditions. in newborns, h1-receptor blockade markedly accentuated baseline hypoxic ppa, and h2-receptor blockade caused an increase in baseline normoxic ppa. in juveniles, neither h1 nor h2 blockade altered baseline normoxic or hypoxic ppa. histamine infusion caused both h1- and h2-mediated decreases in ppa in normoxic and hypoxic newborn lungs. in juvenile lungs, histamine infusion also caused h2-mediated decreases in ppa during both normoxia and hypoxia. during normoxia, histamine infusion caused an h1-mediated increase in normoxic ppa in juveniles as previously seen in mature animals; however, during hypoxia there was an h1-mediated decrease in ppa at low doses of histamine followed by an increase in ppa. combined histamine-receptor blockade markedly reduced both dilator and pressor responses to histamine infusion. indomethacin failed to alter the h1-mediated dilator response to histamine in newborns.
cerebral cysticercosis. we studied 143 cases of cerebral cysticercosis over a 30-year period. in 46 there was hydrocephalus due to cysts obstructing the cerebrospinal fluid pathways, with signs of hydrocephalus and cerebellar dysfunction. in 97 there were cysts in the cerebral parenchyma, causing symptoms of intracranial hypertension alone in 22 cases, with additional neurological deficits in the remainder. before 1980 diagnosis was made by pneumoencephalography and ventriculography, but since then it has mostly been done by computed tomography. in 28 cases scanned, typical abnormalities were present in 25. complement fixation tests were positive in serum in 74% of cases and in cerebrospinal fluid in 73%, and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test was positive in serum in 90% and in cerebrospinal fluid in 92%. treatment of cases with hydrocephalus was by removal of the cysts at craniotomy, with placement of a shunt where necessary. intracranial hypertension caused by parenchymal cysts was treated with steroids and osmotic agents, if possible. in resistant cases subtemporal decompression was needed, unilateral in 55 cases and bilateral in eight. mortality in the acute stage was 11%, with a further 20% at follow up.
the in vivo biologic effect of interleukin 2 and interferon alfa on natural immunity in patients with head and neck cancer. given the association of deficient natural immunity with the risk of metastatic disease, the ability to activate natural killer cell function may have a therapeutic significance. the effect of continuous infusion of interleukin 2 plus intramuscular interferon alfa on natural immune status was, therefore, analyzed in eight patients with head and neck cancer. also evaluated was the effect of interleukin 2-interferon alfa therapy on lymphokine-activated killer cell activity as well as total lymphocyte count, percent of lymphocyte subsets, and levels of both circulating immune complexes and antibody classes. both the percent and absolute number of natural killer cells (ie, cd56+ cd3- lymphocytes) within peripheral blood as well as natural killer cell activity against k562 targets increased significantly with treatment. the remaining immune parameters were not significantly altered. the demonstrated capacity to modulate natural immune function supports the potential use of interleukin 2-containing regimens as a preventive measure against metastatic disease in patients with head and neck cancer.
infiltration of epinephrine in tonsillectomy: a randomized, prospective, double-blind study. a variety of hemostatic agents and techniques have been used in an attempt to reduce intraoperative blood loss and postoperative bleeding in tonsillectomy. the efficacy of most of these substances and techniques has been judged primarily on clinical impressions. because of the paucity of prospective studies, a randomized, prospective, double-blind study, using the patients as their own controls, was conducted. ninety-two patients were injected before tonsillectomy in a random, double-blind fashion with normal saline solution in one tonsil and 1:100,000 epinephrine in the other. the blood loss, time of dissection, and postoperative bleeding were recorded separately for each tonsil. cardiac manifestations were also monitored. the tonsils injected with epinephrine had a statistically significant reduction in blood loss and dissection time when compared with those injected with normal saline. subjectively, dissection was easier on the epinephrine-injected side. there was no difference in the incidence of postoperative hemorrhage. cardiac manifestations of epinephrine were minimal and transient. this study demonstrates that epinephrine is useful in reducing hemorrhage during tonsillectomy and can be used safely with the appropriate inhalation anesthetics.
interferon alpha-2a and 5-fluorouracil for advanced colorectal carcinoma. assessment of activity and toxicity. preclinical data showed that the cytotoxic effects of 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) are augmented by interferon (ifn). in a small study, 13 of 17 patients with advanced colorectal cancer responded to a regimen of 5-fu with ifn. using the same dose and schedule as in this pilot study, 38 previously untreated patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma were treated with continuous intravenous (iv) infusion of 5-fu 750 mg/m2 daily for 5 days, followed by weekly bolus 5-fu at 750 mg/m2 and subcutaneous ifn at 9 million units three times per week. of 35 evaluable patients, nine (26%) had a partial response (95% confidence limit, 11% to 41%), with a median response duration of 7.5 months (range, 4.4 to greater than 11.7 months). seven patients (20%) had a minor response, and ten (28%) had stable disease. the most common toxicities observed were stomatitis (52%) and diarrhea (43%). neurotoxicity was seen in 34% of patients and consisted of gait disturbance, dizziness, confusion, memory loss, and dementia. because of toxicity, 84% of patients required a reduction of the ifn dose by at least 50%, and 63% required reduction of the 5-fu dose by at least 25%. although the combination of 5-fu and ifn in patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma has some activity, the regimen was toxic, and the observed response rate (26%) was not substantially superior to alternative 5-fu programs.
stress fractures of the femoral neck in athletes. the consequence of a delay in diagnosis. twenty-three patients with stress fractures of the femoral neck were followed up at an average of 6.5 years after the injury. there were 16 recreational athletes and seven elite athletes. most injuries (n = 15) occurred during running. the diagnosis was confirmed within 3 to 104 weeks (mean, 14 weeks) after the initial onset of symptoms. sixteen of the patients were treated with internal fixation, the remaining seven were treated conservatively. seven patients (30%) developed complications requiring major surgery. five of these patients had type 3 fractures (displaced) and four had been treated with internal fixation initially. the remaining two patients had type 1 fractures (endosteal or periosteal callus without an overt fracture line); one was treated operatively and the other conservatively. three patients developed avascular necrosis and two were treated by hip replacement. the third patient was treated with arthrodesis. three refractures and one pseudarthrosis were treated by osteotomy. at followup, all elite athletes stated that they had to end their career as a result of the injury. results were rated by the ability of the athlete to return to sports. there were 9 bad or fair results, 13 good, and 1 excellent result. no difference in activity level or subjective rating was observed between the surgically and conservatively treated group either preinjury or postinjury. the most important factor influencing the complication rate seems to be the type of fracture. the high incidence of displaced fractures (type 3) could speculatively be caused by undiagnosed tension side stress fractures. if so, the delay in correct diagnosis may be disastrous. however, we could only objectively observe this in one of our cases.
results of treating ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast with conservative surgery and radiation therapy. to determine the frequency, pattern, and time course of tumor recurrence in the breast, the outcome of 38 women with ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) treated with conservative surgery and radiation therapy between 1976 and 1985 was studied. surgery typically consisted of local excision without evaluation of the microscopic margins of resection. the median radiation dose to the tumor site was 6400 cgy. with a median follow-up time of 81 months, eight patients (21%) have experienced a recurrence in the breast. the time course to recurrence was protracted in some cases, with failures occurring at 17, 27, 43, 63, 71, 83, 92, and 104 months. the 5-year and 8-year actuarial rates of tumor recurrence in the breast were 8% and 27%, respectively. seven patients had a recurrence at or near the primary tumor site, four with invasive carcinoma, and one had an invasive recurrence at a site elsewhere in the breast. no clinical or pathologic factor was significantly associated with an increased risk of recurrence, but the number of patients in the study population was small. the authors reached the following conclusions for patients with dcis treated with conservative surgery and radiation therapy without careful mammographic and pathologic evaluation: (1) recurrence in the breast may be seen in at least one fifth of the patients; (2) recurrence typically occurs at or near the primary site; and (3) recurrence can occur long after treatment. careful mammographic and pathologic assessment may be useful in reducing the local recurrence rate and should be considered essential if patients are considered for conservative surgery and radiation therapy.
hic-com: a 2-month intensive chemotherapy regimen for children with stage iii and iv burkitt's lymphoma and b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. we designed a protocol that included 2 months of intensive cytoxan (cyclophosphamide; bristol-myers co, evansville, in), high-dose methotrexate (mtx), high-dose cytarabine (ara-c), and vincristine (hic-com) to improve event-free survival (efs) for patients with advanced-stage burkitt's lymphoma and b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). we also wished to test the feasibility of rapidly cycling cytoxan and high-dose ara-c based on signs of early marrow recovery. twenty patients including 12 with stage iii burkitt's lymphoma and eight with stage iv burkitt's lymphoma or b-cell all were entered onto this pilot study. the rate of complete remission was 95%. four patients have relapsed. the 2-year actuarial efs was 75% (median follow-up, 37 months). two of the initial five patients developed transverse myelitis, which we believe may have been secondary to the concomitant administration of intrathecal (it) and high-dose systemic ara-c. we conclude that this short but intensive regimen is highly effective for patients with advanced burkitt's lymphoma and b-cell all. efs has improved over previous less intensive regimens, and is comparable to regimens of longer duration.
rapid control of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias with high-dose oral amiodarone. to shorten the delay in the onset of antiarrhythmic effect when using amiodarone for the conversion of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm, 19 patients were given oral amiodarone according to a high-dose loading protocol. in 18 of 19 patients (95%), sinus rhythm was restored 36 hours (range, 0 to 96 hours) after starting amiodarone. the conversion occurred as a result of amiodarone therapy alone within 48 hours in 12 patients (63%), and by amiodarone therapy plus electrical cardioversion at 48 to 96 hours in six patients (32%). minor side effects were noted in eight patients (42%). no major side effects were encountered. the length of hospital stay after initiating amiodarone therapy was 3.6 days (range, 2 to 5 days). high-dose oral amiodarone loading is a safe and effective method for the rapid conversion of atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm.
great vein and right atrial thrombosis in critically ill infants and children with central venous lines. we performed a retrospective review of echocardiographic data files of infants and children hospitalized in the newborn and pediatric intensive care units. echocardiograms were examined to detect the presence and evolution of great vein and right atrial thrombosis in patients with central venous lines. thirty-seven patients were identified over a five-year period. echocardiograms were performed, not routinely, but in response to specific indications including catheter malfunction, thrombocytopenia, persistent chylothorax, bacterial or fungal sepsis, and superior vena cava syndrome. fifteen of 37 patients died, 13 of them during the hospitalization in which the thrombus was discovered. thrombolytic agents and surgery were used to treat selected patients, with mixed results. two of the 22 survivors have significant disability related to the thrombus or complications arising from it. we conclude that great vein and/or right atrial thrombosis is a common complication of central venous catheterization in small infants and children; moreover, the morbidity and mortality relating to this complication is substantial.
interaction of citrus juices with felodipine and nifedipine six men with borderline hypertension took felodipine 5 mg with water, grapefruit juice, or orange juice. the mean felodipine bioavailability with grapefruit juice was 284 (range 164-469)% of that with water. the dehydrofelodipine/felodipine auc ratio was lower, diastolic blood pressure lower, and heart rate higher with grapefruit juice than with water. vasodilatation-related side-effects were more frequent. orange juice had no such effects. six healthy men took nifedipine 10 mg with water or grapefruit juice; the bioavailability with grapefruit juice was 134 (108-169)% of that with water.
deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass after failed femoropopliteal reconstructions. deep femoral to anterior tibial artery bypass is a reconstructive technique occasionally applicable when more conventional attempts at revascularization of the distal portion of the leg have failed. three such patients, in whom the anterior tibial was the only distal patent branch of the popliteal artery, had severe symptoms of arterial insufficiency. deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass was done using autogenous the distal portion of the deep femoral artery was exposed through an anteromedial distal thigh approach. the three patients have been followed up for a mean of 20.3 months, and each maintains graft patency and marked symptomatic improvement.
endophthalmitis after placement of a molteno implant. i report a case of early postoperative endophthalmitis following placement of a molteno implant. excellent results were obtained by immediate removal of the implant and surgical management of the infection, followed by replacement of the implant.
safety and efficacy of urokinase during elective coronary angioplasty. eighty-nine of 462 patients were treated with adjunctive urokinase during elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), 26% for unstable angina, 34% for intracoronary thrombus, 27% for intimal dissection, 10% for abrupt closure, and 3% for saphenous vein graft embolism. the 80 patients treated before abrupt closure (group a) were compared with 167 patients with similar profiles who did not receive urokinase (group b). procedural success rates were similar. adverse cardiac events (abrupt closure, myocardial infarction, emergency coronary artery bypass, or death) in group a versus group b occurred in: 1 of 30 (3%) versus 5 of 27 (18.5%) (p = 0.07) with intracoronary thrombus, 5 of 45 (9%) versus 18 of 110 (16.3%) with unstable angina, 1 of 12 (8%) versus 4 of 13 (31%) with unstable angina with intracoronary thrombus, 4 of 33 (12%) versus 14 of 97 (14.4%) with unstable angina without intracoronary thrombus, and 5 of 24 (20.8%) versus 6 of 66 (9%) with intimal dissection. hemorrhagic complications occurred in 11% of patients who were treated with urokinase versus 9% of patients who were not (p = ns). no difference in blood transfusions existed. thus urokinase was found to be safe during elective ptca. in patients with intracoronary thrombus, urokinase appears to decrease the incidence of new adverse cardiac events, whereas in patients with intimal dissection it might have an adverse effect.
segmental wall motion abnormalities in the absence of clinically documented myocardial infarction: clinical significance and evidence of hibernating myocardium. to determine the frequency and significance of left ventricular wall motion abnormalities in patients without clinical evidence of myocardial infarction, we reviewed the two-dimensional echocardiograms of 252 patients who had no history or electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial infarction and who subsequently underwent coronary angiography. seventy-seven patients (31%) had one or more segmental wall motion abnormalities. sixty-six of the 77 patients (86%) had significant coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% luminal diameter stenosis). seventy-four percent of the patients with coronary artery disease had multivessel disease. the left ventricle was divided into anterior and posterior regions. in the 66 patients, there were 77 separate regions with wall motion abnormalities (49 hypokinesis, 22 akinesis, 6 dyskinesis), including 60 regions (78%) supplied by coronary vessels with greater than or equal to 70% stenosis. thirty-two patients underwent coronary artery bypass surgery or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. follow-up echocardiograms were obtained in 19 patients who had wall motion abnormalities involving 22 regions. twenty of the 22 regions were revascularized. wall motion improved in 17 of 20 regions (85%) and returned to normal in 15 regions (75%). we conclude that segmental wall motion abnormalities may be detected by echocardiography in up to one third of patients evaluated for suspected coronary artery disease without documented myocardial infarction. these abnormalities are associated with a high likelihood of multivessel disease as well as with significant narrowing of the artery supplying the region demonstrating abnormal wall motion. improvement in segmental wall motion abnormalities after revascularization suggests that these areas represent regions of hibernating myocardium.
trends in thirty years of vaginal hysterectomy. vaginal hysterectomy, as currently performed at the university of vienna, was first described by halban in 1932. from 1955 to 1985, a total of 9,967 hysterectomies were performed. the vaginal route was used for 6,078 (60.9 per cent) of these procedures. sixty-four per cent of the women operated upon were multiparous, 27 per cent were uniparous and 8 per cent were nulliparous. a comparison of the periods 1955 to 1975 and 1976 to 1985 revealed the following trends: the incidence of uterine myomas (30.6 to 27.1 per cent), in situ carcinoma of the cervix (6.5 to 7.9 per cent) and endometrial carcinoma (1.4 to 0.6 per cent) remained largely constant. in the past decade, indications for positional abnormalities (uterine descent and prolapse) were encountered more often (27.6 to 41.6 per cent) than in the first observation period, while the incidence of recurrent metrorrhagia was found to decline (33.9 to 22.8 per cent). the most common complications included hemorrhage during the operation, lesions of the bladder, hemorrhage until 48 hours after surgical treatment and hemorrhage from days 2 to 14 postoperatively (around 0.5 per cent, respectively). during the second observation period, no postoperative fistulas developed. two instances of tubal prolapse were seen. laparotomy was done in four of 6,078 instances. two patients died of septic complications. whenever possible, we prefer vaginal hysterectomy because of its low complication rate, low mortality rate and low postoperative morbidity.
hypercalcemia in infants presenting with apnea. to our knowledge apnea in infants has not been associated with hypercalcemia. we describe seven hypercalcemic infants aged 2 days to 3 months who had presented with apnea; six of the seven were otherwise healthy. the apneic attacks were brief, and normal breathing was restored spontaneously or after tactile stimulation. the attacks stopped and the apnea monitoring was discontinued when the children were 1 month to 2 years of age. the only abnormal finding common to all of the patients was hypercalcemia. idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia was diagnosed in six of the patients and familial benign hypercalcemia in one. our findings suggest that determination of the plasma calcium level be included in the investigation of apnea in infancy.
transthyretin receptors on human astrocytoma cells. transthyretin (ttr), a transport protein for t4 and retinol-binding protein, is the principal t4-binding protein of cerebrospinal fluid. its function in regard to the delivery of its ligands and in other respects is unclear. the binding of [125i] ttr to cultured human astrocytoma cells was studied to determine whether these cells carry receptors for ttr. scatchard analysis was consistent with a single class of binding sites with a kd of 3 nm. no significant cross-reactivity with transferrin or serum albumin was observed. internalization of ttr was temperature dependent and proportional to receptor occupancy. dilutions of cerebrospinal fluid displaced [125i]ttr in proportion to their content of radioimmunoassayable ttr and in parallel with purified ttr. the uptake and internalization of ttr increased in the presence of high t4 or t3 concentrations. these results demonstrate that ttr binds to specific high affinity receptors on human astrocytoma cells. receptor binding of ttr provides a potential mechanism for the delivery of its ligands within the central nervous system.
eosinophil infiltration and degranulation in helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis. eosinophil granules contain cationic proteins, including the major basic protein, which are toxic to mammalian tissue. while eosinophils have been observed to comprise part of the inflammatory reaction in acute helicobacter pylori gastritis, the role of the eosinophil in the pathogenesis of chronic gastritis is unknown. we evaluated whether eosinophil infiltration and degranulation are associated with chronic gastritis and h. pylori infection. we studied eight patients with chronic h. pylori antral gastritis, three with chronic antral gastritis in the absence of h. pylori, 11 healthy age-matched volunteers without antral gastritis, and eight patients with h. pylori-negative chronic specific gastritis (three crohn's antral gastritis and five menetrier's disease). serial sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, with giemsa, and by a specific indirect immunofluorescence technique for eosinophil granule major basic protein. specimens were graded independently by three observers and scores of 0-3 were given for eosinophil infiltration and degranulation (0 = none to 3 = confluent infiltration and/or degranulation). in h. pylori antral gastritis, significantly greater eosinophil infiltration and degranulation were found compared to the normal group, menetrier's disease, and chronic h. pylori-negative gastritis. there was no significant difference between gastric crohn's disease and h. pylori gastritis. the severity of chronic gastritis was significantly correlated with the eosinophil score. eosinophil degranulation did not appear to be greater at or near sites of bacterial colonization in the h. pylori gastritis specimens. the results suggest that eosinophil infiltration and degranulation may be associated with h. pylori gastritis. we postulate that the release of toxic cationic proteins from eosinophils contributes to the inflammatory changes present in h. pylori gastritis.
ankylosing spondylitis with exuberant sclerosis in the sacroiliac joints, symphysis pubis and spine. we report the case of a man with ankylosing spondylitis involving the symphysis pubis and some intervertebral discs in addition to the sacroiliac joints. the bone adjacent to each inflammatory area showed an unusually exuberant sclerosis. in the early phases of evolution the appearance of sacroilitis was indistinguishable from that of osteitis condensans ilii.
progressive functional deterioration of bioprostheses assessed by doppler ultrasonography. doppler echocardiography was used to study the function of bioprosthetic heart valves by noninvasive means in 32 patients aged 29 to 72 years at various postoperative intervals. there were 24 ionescu-shiley, four hancock, and four carpentier-edwards prostheses, 19 in the aortic and 13 in the mitral position. initial studies were performed at a mean of 2.3 years after implantation and were repeated one, two, and three years thereafter. flow velocities in the mitral orifice, left ventricular outflow tract, and ascending aorta, as well as mitral pressure half-time, were measured from pulsed-wave or continuous-wave doppler recordings. mitral and aortic valve areas and aortic pressure gradients were calculated. in aortic prostheses the valve area decreased and pressure gradient increased progressively in relation to the time from implantation. the mean value (+/- sd) of the aortic valve area was 67 +/- 17 percent of the manufacturer's nominal value at the first examination and 57 +/- 20 percent one year later, 51 +/- 14 percent two years later, and 46 +/- 11 percent three years later (overall differences, p less than 0.01). in mitral prostheses, reduction of the valve area was not related to the time from implantation. the mean mitral valve area was 45 +/- 12 percent of the nominal value at rest and increased to 68 +/- 18 percent during exercise at a mean of 45 months after implantation. there was no change in these values at the one-year repeat study. it is concluded that in a population with predominantly pericardial bioprostheses, (1) aortic tissue prostheses showed a progressive functional deterioration demonstrable by doppler echocardiography, most probably due to degenerative changes; and (2) in mitral tissue prostheses, there was no significant reduction of orifice area in relation to time from implantation. reduction of mitral valve areas may, to some extent, reflect a less than full opening at rest.
peritoneal macrophage beta-2 microglobulin production and bacterial peritonitis in capd patients. to evaluate the role of bacterial peritonitis in peritoneal macrophage (pm) beta-2 microglobulin (b2m) production, and its relationship with pm interleukin-1 (il-1) and leukotriene b4 (ltb4) release, the authors studied 20 capd patients (10 with peritonitis): 1. in vivo plasma and peritoneal dialysis effluent (pde) b2m, il-1, and ltb4 levels; 2. in vitro b2m, il-1, and ltb4 release by pm. values were compared with those seen in the plasma or with peripheral blood monocytes of 30 hemodialysis (hd) patients (10 treated with cuprophan [cu]; 10 with polyacrylonitrile [pan]; and 10 with cellulose acetate [ca]). results showed that in capd patients with bacterial peritonitis b2m, il-1 and ltb4 concentrations in the pde were significantly higher than those seen in capd patients without peritonitis, or in the plasma of hd patients treated with pan or ca, but were similar to those seen in hd patients treated with cu. at the same time, in vitro pm from capd patients with bacterial peritonitis produced more b2m, il-1, and ltb4, than did pm from capd patients without peritonitis, or peripheral blood monocytes from hd patients treated with pan or ca. the authors conclude that in capd patients, bacterial peritonitis is able to induce pm b2m production, probably via a cytokine mediated process, which may be analogous to what occurs with peripheral blood monocytes of hd patients treated with cu.
self-injurious behavior: a review of the behavior and biology of self-mutilation. objective: the authors describe the clinical characteristics of self-injurious behavior, giving special emphasis to self-injurious behavior occurring among individuals with character disorders. data collection: they review data suggesting the involvement of serotonergic, dopaminergic, and opiate neurotransmitter systems in the expression of self-injurious behavior. findings: self-injurious behavior occurs among mentally retarded individuals, psychotic patients, prison populations, and individuals with severe character disorders. although theoretical psychological models of self-injurious behavior are helpful in understanding the patient's experience of self-injury, no generally useful therapeutic approach has yet evolved from these models. data derived from animal models and treatment studies suggest the involvement of opiatergic and dopaminergic mechanisms in self-injury among the mentally retarded. serotonergic influences on self-injurious behavior may be present in varying forms of this behavior. the scientific literature on the benefits of pharmacological agents for mentally retarded individuals is beset with a number of problems. support is emerging, however, for the use of lithium and carbamazepine with self-injuring mentally retarded patients, and some behavioral interventions appear to be successful for mentally retarded individuals. self-injuring patients with borderline personality disorder may benefit from milieu treatment. conclusions: although no form of treatment has yet been demonstrated to be of general benefit, the literature suggests that therapeutic trials with dopamine antagonists, serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and opiate antagonists may be of value.
immunogenetic heterogeneity in rheumatoid disease as illustrated by different mhc associations (dq, dw and c4) in articular and extra-articular subsets. genetic variants at drb1 (dw subtypes), dqb, and c4 loci were compared in rheumatoid disease subjects with or without the extra-articular feature of felty's syndrome or major vasculitis. dr4 positive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis alone showed no preferential associations with dqb or dw variants or with c4 null alleles. felty's subjects showed associations with the dqb encoded dqw7 allele and with the c4b null allele but no preferential associations with any dw subtype of dr4. by contrast dr4 +ve rheumatoid-vasculitic subjects showed associations with the dw14 as well as with dqw7 and the c4a null allele. these different mhc associations in different clinical disease subsets show that rheumatoid disease is immunogenetically heterogeneous and suggest that mhc genes outside the drb1 locus may also influence susceptibility or modify expression of the rheumatoid disease process.
hypereosinophilic syndrome with unusual cutaneous manifestations in two men with hiv infection. we report two men with human immunodeficiency virus infection who had unusual cutaneous manifestations of hypereosinophilic syndrome, exfoliative erythroderma, and linear flagellate plaques. in the first patient the cutaneous disease was the initial manifestation, and in the second the skin was the only organ affected. we also describe a favorable response to systemic corticosteroids and to psoralen with uva phototherapy in one patient.
immunopathology and viral reactivation. a general theory of schizophrenia. a theory is proposed that explains a broad range of clinical manifestations in schizophrenia. it is a heuristic device for organizing research in the neuroimmunology and virology of schizophrenia. this approach is different from other immune and viral theories of schizophrenia and defines testable hypotheses for further theory refinement or rejection. defective alpha-interferon (aifn) regulation resulting in excessive effect is postulated to cause schizophrenia. the role of aifn in the regulation of development and its induction within the brain by the reactivation of viruses that are commonly present in the normal central nervous system (cns) are the primary pathophysiological mechanisms. biological properties of aifn include neural excitation, opiate and adrenocorticotropic hormone activity, and inhibition of cellular proliferation and differentiation. psychosis results from in situ viral stimulation of aifn production in the cns of a vulnerable host having defective regulation of either sensitivity or production. negative symptoms result from aifn effects on cns development and the behavioral toxicity of aifn. biological developmental abnormalities, gender differences in severity, and decline in psychotic symptoms with age are discussed in the context of the theory. research strategies and specific testable hypotheses are presented.
aaem minimonograph #35: clinical experience with transcranial magnetic stimulation. we elicited motor evoked potentials (meps) using transcortical magnetic stimulation in 150 control subjects aged 14 to 85 years and 275 patients with a variety of diseases. there were no significant side effects. cortex-to-target muscle latencies measured 20.2 +/- 1.6 ms (thenar), 14.2 +/- 1.7 ms (extensor digitorum communis), 9.4 +/- 1.7 ms (biceps), and 27.2 +/- 2.9 ms (tibialis anterior). central motor delay between the cortex and the c-7 and l-5 measured 6.7 +/- 1.2 ms and 13.1 +/- 3.8 ms, respectively. mean spinal cord motor conduction velocity measured 65.4 m/s. mep amplitude expressed as a percentage of the maximum m wave was never less than 20% of the m wave. a value of less than 10% is considered abnormal. mep latency increases linearly with age and central motor delay is longer in older subjects. compound muscle action potentials and absolute mep amplitudes decreased linearly with age. in multiple sclerosis (ms), mep latency and central delay were often very prolonged. the mep was more sensitive than the sep in ms. in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, mep latencies were only modestly prolonged; the characteristic abnormality was reduced amplitude. when pseudobulbar features predominated meps were often absent. the mep was of normal latency in parkinson's disease, but age-related amplitude was often increased. mep latency and amplitude were normal in huntington's disease. abnormal meps persisted several months after stroke despite good functional recovery. the mep could be used to advantage to demonstrate proximal conduction slowing and block in demyelinating neuropathies. in plexopathy, ability to elicit an mep several days after onset of paresis was good evidence of neuronal continuity in motor fibers.
estimating the benefits of cholesterol lowering: are risk factors for coronary heart disease multiplicative? it is often stated that the major risk factors for coronary heart disease (chd)--smoking, high blood pressure and high serum cholesterol--are not merely additive but act together such that each multiplies the effects of the others. economic analyses in which the benefits of risk factor modification are estimated often reflect this. this paper explains how predictive models based on the simplest form of the multiple logistic function inevitably predict greater benefit from cholesterol lowering in those in whom other risk factors are adverse; this results from the model itself, rather than the data. chd death rates from the screenee population of the multiple risk factor intervention trial are examined: these suggest that the relationship between cholesterol and both other major risk factors is closer to additive than to multiplicative. when the benefits of cholesterol lowering are estimated, a model based on additive risk, specifying product ("interaction") terms, is to be preferred.
fatty infiltration: another restrictive cardiomyopathic pattern. restrictive cardiomyopathies have been shown to occur as result of infiltrative processes from a variety of sources. the current report describes an obese male, who was found to have hemodynamic evidence of a restrictive cardiac process. his pericardium was proven to be normal and an incisional biopsy obtained of the myocardium during coronary artery bypass surgery demonstrated histologic evidence of fatty infiltration of myocardium. review of the restrictive and pathology literature is discussed and indicates that this is the first report to demonstrate the association between fatty infiltration and hemodynamic findings consistent with a restrictive cardiomyopathy.
introduction to limb-salvage surgery for sarcomas. this article provides a history of limb-salvage surgery and definitions of terms used to describe aspects of the procedure. staging is also discussed.
t cell subsets (tc, th, ts, tsi) and il2 receptor-bearing cells in peripheral blood of patients in the acute phase of alcoholic hepatitis. the present study was designed to evaluate the proportion of t cell subsets and il2 receptor positive cells in the peripheral blood of patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis (aah) using monoclonal antibodies to t cell antigens and tac in a double immunofluorescent technique. the results indicate that the percentage of the total t cells and the intensity of all the t cell antigens are significantly reduced and the percentage of t helper cells and the ratio between th/ts cells are significantly increased in aah when compared to healthy controls. but, significant differences in values observed in this study were not found for the absolute number of these cells. these altered values returned to normal levels during convalescence.
alpha 1-antichymotrypsin as a possible biochemical marker for alzheimer-type dementia. we measured serum alpha 1-antichymotrypsin levels in 38 patients with alzheimer-type dementia, 89 control subjects, 2 subjects with down's syndrome, 20 with vascular dementia, 18 with parkinson's disease, 14 with spinocerebellar degeneration, 15 with cerebrovascular disease without dementia, and 14 with duchenne muscular dystrophy. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were also measured in 15 patients with alzheimer-type dementia, 26 control subjects, 6 with vascular dementia, 7 with cerebrovascular disorder, and 11 with degenerative disorders. in control subjects, there were no age-related changes or sex differences. serum and csf levels were significantly and specifically higher in patients with alzheimer-type dementia than in other subjects (serum, p less than 0.001; csf, p less than 0.05). serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were significantly elevated in the early stage of alzheimer-type dementia, whereas there was no definite correlation between serum levels and the degree of dementia. csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin tended to parallel the severity of dementia. serum levels were not correlated with csf levels. these data indicate that serum and csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin might be independently upregulated in alzheimer-type dementia. we concluded that the measurement of serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin could be useful as a screening marker for alzheimer-type dementia. in addition, csf levels also could be a useful marker for alzheimer-type dementia, because they might reflect the state of dementia.
l-methionine uptake by human cerebral cortex: maturation from infancy to old age age-associated changes in amino acid transport from blood to normal frontal cortex were studied using positron emission tomography (pet). seventeen patients, 1.8-71 yr, were injected intravenously with tracer doses of [11c] l-methionine and a baseline pet scan was obtained. to assess competitive inhibition of [11c]l-methionine uptake, patients received either oral l-phenylalanine or an i.v. infusion of amino acids 1 hr before a second pet study. uptake of [11c]l-methionine by frontal cortex decreased seven-fold between 1.8 and 71 yr (r = -0.71; p less than 0.05). blood-to-brain transfer of [11c]l-methionine, at 4.5 yr, exceeded mean adult values by more than five-fold. competitive inhibition reduced l-methionine uptake in all patients older than 4.6 yr. these developmental changes parallel findings in animals. the neutral amino acid transport system may modulate human brain amino acid levels to meet changing developmental metabolic needs.
the effect of lateral tilt on maternal and fetal hemodynamic variables. we measured maternal blood pressure and heart rate, fetal heart rate, and umbilical artery velocity waveforms in 25 healthy women placed in the supine and in both right and left 5 degrees and 10 degrees lateral tilt positions. although we found no significant difference among these variables in the various maternal positions, two of 25 women became hypotensive and symptomatic in the supine and 5 degrees tilt positions. because we could not predict which women would become symptomatic, we recommend lateral tilt of all pregnant women during operative procedures beyond 20 weeks' gestation, including those in the lithotomy position for vaginal delivery.
the long-term course of treated alcoholism: i. mortality, relapse and remission rates and comparisons with community controls. this study examines the course of alcoholism for a sample of patients who were followed 2 years and 10 years later after an index residential treatment episode. the alcoholic patients were 9.5 times as likely to die as matched community controls over the 8-year interval between the two follow-ups, a ratio considerably higher than that found in previous studies. of the 83 surviving and successfully followed patients, 57% were classified as remitted at the 10-year follow-up. of the patients classified as remitted at the 2-year follow-up and recontacted 8 years later, 77% had the same outcome status at the long-term follow-up, 67% of the initially relapsed patients retained that status at the 10-year follow-up. the 10-year remitted patients generally were functioning as well as matched, nonproblem-drinking community controls, whereas the relapsed patients exhibited dysfunction in a number of areas. retrospective data on drinking patterns during each of the 6 years prior to the 10-year follow-up indicated a slight increase over time in the proportion of patients reporting abstinence or nonproblem drinking, with a concomitant decrease in the proportion indicating heavy or binge drinking. overall, our data show a substantially elevated mortality risk among these alcoholic patients. for those patients who survive, however, the average course is one of modest improvement.
on-table pancreatography: importance in planning operative strategy. we describe our experience with 124 on-table pancreatograms performed during 117 operative procedures on 112 patients in a wide variety of clinical settings. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) was performed on 84 occasions with a 73 per cent success rate for visualization of the main pancreatic duct. on-table pancreatography (otp) was performed by one of five different techniques: retrograde, prograde or ambigrade ductography, cystography and ascending loopography after pancreaticojejunostomy. otp provided important information about the main pancreatic duct when endoscopic visualization was unsuccessful (n = 23), incomplete (n = 17) or not performed (n = 33); there was a failure rate of 4 per cent. in 35 patients either the additional information or discrepancies between ercp and otp findings resulted in a change of operative plan (19 extra procedures, 16 altered procedures). complete ductography was especially helpful in the 63 patients with chronic pancreatitis. otp is technically simple, free from complications and invaluable for planning operative strategy.
myeloma manifesting as a large jugular tumor: case report. the authors report a case of cranial plasmacytoma with multiple myelomas and palsy of the lower cranial nerves. the osteolytic lesion adjacent to the jugular foramen was demonstrated by an angiogram to be exceedingly hypervascular, with arteriovenous shunting resembling that seen in paragangliomas. forty-five cases of cranial and intracranial plasmacytoma from the literature were reviewed. the findings indicate that a cranial plasmacytoma commonly appears to be a hypervascular tumor, whereas most dural tumors or intraparenchymal tumors have poor vascularity.
an extracorporeal perfusion system to bridge pediatric liver transplant candidates. an extracorporeal liver perfusion system was designed to maintain cadaver livers in an oxygenated, normothermic state for bridging procedures for hepatic transplantation. nonpulsatile high flow and pulsatile low flow blood are supplied to the portal venous (pv) and hepatic arterial (ha) circulations. controlled low blood flow (5-10 cc/kg [patient]/min) is exchanged between the high flow extracorporeal perfusion circuit (1 cc/g [liver]/min) and the patient. the system was evaluated in perfusions of fresh, excised pig livers (n = 5). the average oxygen consumption was 9 +/- 3 microliters/g/min, and bile production averaged 4.7 microliters/g/hr. perfusion pressures and flows were normal in both the ha and pv circulations for about 4 hr. pressures then gradually rose, especially in the ha circulation, causing flow to decrease, with subsequent mottling and discoloration of the liver. red blood cell, platelet, and white blood cell counts fell continuously. maintenance of liver function was assessed by clearance of an 80 mg taurocholic acid challenge. an average of 56% of injected acid was cleared from the perfused livers (n = 5) in the first half hour, compared with 90% and 25% for the in situ (n = 3) and unperfused (n = 3) control livers, respectively. the system consistently maintained livers in a moderately well functioning state through the first 4 hr of perfusion. adequate support of animals with induced hepatic failure must now be demonstrated.
systemic hypertension in sleep apnea syndrome. relationship with sleep architecture and breathing abnormalities. to examine the possible relationship between systemic ht and sas we compared 21 hypertensive (ht+) and 29 normotensive (ht-) patients for morphologic characteristics, sleep disturbances and respiratory events monitored during a full night polysomnography. there was no significant difference between ht+ and ht- patients with respect to age, weight, bmi, sleep stage distribution and disorganization, apnea-hypopnea index (number of episodes per hour of sleep) and duration (minutes per hour of sleep) nor o2 saturation indices: mean nocturnal and minimum o2 saturation. we conclude therefore that ht in sas patients is not directly related to morphologic characteristics, sleep disturbances and breathing abnormalities.
rapid sequence treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract: a pilot study. a review of the literature suggested that prolonged treatment time may lessen the probability of cure for patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract. to shorten treatment time, rapid sequence treatment (rst) was devised in which chemotherapy, surgery, and irradation were administered in a total treatment time of 8 weeks. twelve patients were treated and followed 3 years or longer. medical complications were minor. osteonecrosis occurred in each of the first five patients and was the only major complication of the protocol. surgical techniques were modified, and no additional patient developed osteonecrosis. no patient developed local or regional recurrence. two patients developed distant metastases and three other patients developed second primaries. absolute survival was 50%. rapid sequence treatment is an aggressive and potentially hazardous protocol that yielded encouraging results in this pilot study.
role of serum prolactin determination in evaluation of impotent patient. hyperprolactinemia is a recognized cause of impotence. the discovery of elevated prolactin levels in impotent men is very important since pharmacotherapy in this instance is highly successful. we review our experience with prolactin determinations in impotent men, and a population is defined that may benefit from routine prolactin determination. in our experience, the predominant symptom associated with hyperprolactinemia in men is loss of libido.
application of a modified bioassay for monitoring serum teicoplanin and vancomycin in febrile neutropenic patients. teicoplanin is a glycopeptide antibiotic with a mode of action and spectrum of activity similar to those of vancomycin. its efficacy and tolerability as empiric therapy and its pharmacokinetic properties in neutropenic patients are being studied in a double-blinded, randomized trial in comparison with those of vancomycin. we report here a modified agar diffusion bioassay which is suitable for monitoring levels of either teicoplanin or vancomycin in serum during combination therapy with beta-lactams, aminoglycosides, and amphotericin b. serum samples spiked with either teicoplanin or vancomycin gave reproducible results (mean coefficient of variation, 8.8%) regardless of the presence of tobramycin, amikacin, piperacillin, ceftazidime, amphotericin b, or their combinations. among 25 patients who received teicoplanin at a dosing schedule of 6 mg/kg every 24 h intravenously, steady state was reached after 14.2 +/- 4.0 days, and 1-h peak and trough concentrations of teicoplanin in serum at steady state were 40.8 +/- 15.0 and 12.5 +/- 3.2 mg/liter, respectively. in contrast, among 25 patients who received vancomycin at a dosing schedule of 15 mg/kg every 12 h intravenously, steady state was reached by 24 h, and the 1-h peak and trough concentrations in serum were 37.5 +/- 15.6 and 8.3 +/- 3.8 mg/liter, respectively. the elimination half-lives for teicoplanin estimated by two separate approaches agreed closely with each other: 80.5 +/- 21.5 h by an accumulation model (m. gilbaldi and d. perrier, pharmacokinetics, 2nd ed., p. 121, 1982) and 87.3 +/- 19.3 h as predicted from the degree of renal function (m. rowland, clin. pharmacokinetic 18:184-209, 1990). these values were 14- to 15-fold higher than that for vancomycin (5.6 +/- 1.8 h).
disturbance in daily sleep/wake patterns in patients with cognitive impairment and decreased daily activity. the sleep/wake patterns of 121 chronically ill, mentally and physically handicapped patients were visually monitored hourly for 14 consecutive days. four types of sleep/wake patterns were found. in order to investigate how cognitive and physical functions correlated with sleep disorders, patients were classified based on a scale of mental function and the grading of daily activity. the percent of total sleep hours and the sleep rating, showing disturbances in sleep/wake pattern, were evaluated. we found a high degree of individuality in sleep/wake patterns. sleep disturbance was associated with daily activity as well as with cognitive impairment. this monitoring system provides medical personnel with valuable information for clinical management.
peptic ulcer disease: ct evaluation. the authors retrospectively describe the computed tomographic (ct) findings in 35 patients with peptic ulcer disease. three of eight patients with gastritis or duodenitis had bowel-wall thickening. ten of the remaining 27 patients had ct evidence of ulcer perforation (n = 2) or penetration (n = 8), four cases of which were unsuspected clinically. both patients with acute free perforation had pneumoperitoneum, and one showed free extravasation of orally administered contrast material. the precise site of perforation could not be established in either case with ct. the eight patients with ulcer penetration had ct evidence of bowel-wall thickening (n = 3) and inflammatory changes in adjacent soft tissues and organs (n = 8), including the pancreas (n = 4), liver (n = 1), and lesser omentum (n = 1). ulcer craters were seen in only two. the ct findings of penetration can mimic other disease processes. ct was not useful in detecting uncomplicated peptic ulcer disease.
impact of echocardiography on the management of patients with mitral valve prolapse objective: to determine whether echocardiography affects the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients suspected of having mitral valve prolapse (mvp). design: retrospective review of echocardiograms and clinical records. setting: military tertiary care hospital. patients: 127 patients with clinically suspected mvp (105) or incidentally discovered mvp (22). main results: beta blockers were used more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms (45%) than in patients with normal echocardiograms (13%, p less than 0.001). bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis was recommended more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms (65%) than in patients with normal echocardiograms (11%, p less than 0.001). presence or absence of a murmur did not influence the decision to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis. patients in whom mvp was incidentally discovered were unlikely to receive either beta blockers or the recommendation for bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis. conclusions: the results of echocardiography affect the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients with suspected mvp.
antemortem diagnosis of diffuse lewy body disease. using the presence of widespread cortical lewy bodies (lb) as the pathologic criteria of diffuse lewy body disease (dlbd), we describe serial neurologic and mental status examinations in 6 patients with dlbd, 3 patients with alzheimer's disease (ad), and 1 patient with parkinson's disease (pd). the 6 patients with dlbd included 3 with neocortical neurofibrillary tangles (nft) consistent with coincident ad. most patients with dlbd had gait impairment concurrent with mild to moderate dementia. abnormalities of tone or resting tremor were also prominent early symptoms in the subjects with dlbd, but not ad. patients with dlbd frequently had abnormal eegs with background posterior slowing and a frontally dominant burst pattern at the time of mild to moderate dementia. agitation, hallucinations, and delusions were frequent early symptoms in dlbd patients. patients with dlbd without concomitant ad had numerous alz-50 negative cortical plaques. patients with dlbd have a distinct clinical syndrome that can be differentiated from ad. pathologic features, including the absence of alz-50 immunoreactivity, also differentiate dlbd from ad.
role of histamine in natural killer cell-mediated resistance against tumor cells. the formation of lung metastases by i.v.-injected b16 melanoma (f1 and f10 strain) cells in swiss albino, c57bl/6, and balb/c mice was reduced by a single dose of histamine given 24 h before tumor cell inoculation. the antimetastatic effect of histamine was specifically mediated by histamine h2-receptors (h2r): it was blocked by the h2r antagonist ranitidine and mimicked by dimaprit, a specific h2r agonist but not by an h2r-inactive structural analog of this compound, nor-dimaprit, or the h1r agonist 2-thiazolyl-ethylamide. a single dose of any of the h2r antagonists ranitidine, tiotidine, famotidine, or cimetidine drastically augmented metastasis. effects of h2r-interactive compounds on b16 metastasis required intact nk cells, as judged by the inability of histamine or ranitidine to affect b16 metastasis after nk cell depletion in vivo using antibodies to asialo-gm1. nk-cell-mediated lysis of yac-1 lymphoma cells in vivo was enhanced by histamine and reduced by ranitidine within 4 h after inoculation of tumor cells. the antimetastatic effect of il-2 was potentiated by histamine; in some experiments, combined treatment with a low dose of il-2 (6000 u/kg) and histamine completely eliminated metastasis, whereas concomitant treatment with ranitidine abrogated antimetastatic effects of il-2; animals treated with ranitidine and il-2 displayed the same level of enhanced metastasis as those treated with ranitidine alone. the presented data are suggestive of an earlier unrecognized role for histamine in nk cell-mediated resistance against metastatic tumor cells.
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute: case report. a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute. in 1983, the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura. five years later, he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule, which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically.
effects of bucindolol on neurohormonal activation in congestive heart failure. to examine the effects of beta-adrenergic blockade on neurohormonal activation in patients with congestive heart failure, 15 men had assessments of hemodynamics and supine peripheral renin and norepinephrine levels before and after 3 months of oral therapy with bucindolol, a nonselective beta antagonist. at baseline, plasma renin activity did not correlate with any hemodynamic parameter. however, norepinephrine levels had a weak correlation with left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01), stroke volume index (r = 0.61, p less than 0.02) and pulmonary vascular resistance (r = 0.54, p less than 0.05). plasma renin decreased with bucindolol therapy, from 11.6 +/- 13.4 to 4.3 +/- 4.1 ng/ml/hour (mean +/- standard deviation; p less than 0.05), whereas plasma norepinephrine was unchanged, from 403 +/- 231 to 408 +/- 217 pg/ml. a wide diversity of the norepinephrine response to bucindolol was observed with reduction of levels in some patients and elevation in others. although plasma norepinephrine did not decrease, heart rate tended to decrease (from 82 +/- 20 vs 73 +/- 11 min-1, p = 0.059) with beta-adrenergic blockade, suggesting neurohormonal antagonism at the receptor level. no changes in i-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake occurred after bucindolol therapy, suggesting unchanged adrenergic uptake of norepinephrine with beta-blocker therapy. despite reductions in plasma renin activity and the presence of beta blockade, the response of renin or norepinephrine levels to long-term bucindolol therapy did not predict which patients had improved in hemodynamic status (chi-square = 0.37 for renin, 0.82 for norepinephrine).
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin. erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis. we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin. we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction.
beta-adrenergic receptors in lymphocyte subsets after exercise. alterations in normal individuals and patients with congestive heart failure. dynamic exercise increases the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in mixed lymphocytes by a mechanism that is incompletely understood. in a set of in vivo studies, we have investigated the effects of dynamic exercise on the subset distribution of circulating lymphocytes and on the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in each of these subsets in two groups of patients. in healthy subjects, exercise increased plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine and caused lymphocytosis. whereas the number of thelper cells increased only modestly, the number of tsuppressor/cytotoxic and natural killer cells more than tripled. the number of beta-adrenergic receptors varied among subsets but was not significantly altered by dynamic exercise in any subset except natural killer cells (35% increase, p = 0.0302). in a group of patients with congestive heart failure, dynamic exercise increased plasma norepinephrine but did not alter plasma epinephrine and did not cause significant lymphocytosis. we did not detect any significant alterations of circulating leukocyte subsets or beta-adrenergic receptors in any of these subsets after exercise. a combined analysis of healthy patients and heart failure patients revealed a significant correlation between increases in plasma epinephrine and increases in circulating lymphocytes. we conclude that the exercise-induced increase in beta-adrenergic receptors of mixed lymphocytes is predominantly caused by a redistribution of circulating cell subsets that differ in their beta-adrenergic receptor number. this appears to be mediated by epinephrine rather than norepinephrine.
heparin as an adjunctive treatment after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. the rationale for considering heparin therapy as an adjunct to thrombolytic treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction is to prevent rethrombosis after successful thrombolysis. the risk of reocclusion is high immediately after thrombolysis because blood flowing through the newly opened coronary artery is exposed to thrombin bound to fibrin in the residual thrombus. clinical studies of patients with venous thrombosis and acute myocardial infarction indicate that there is a relation between the anticoagulant response to heparin and clinical efficacy and that the concept of a therapeutic heparin level is valid. subcutaneous doses of approximately 15,000 u twice a day fail to provide an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in the majority of patients, whereas intravenous administration of a bolus of 5,000 u followed by continuous infusion of 30,000 u per 24 hours produces an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in approximately 80% of patients. studies of patients with myocardial infarction who received streptokinase showed a significant beneficial effect on mortality when 12,500 u of heparin was administered subcutaneously 2 times per day. in contrast, the single largest study evaluating heparin 12,500 u administered subcutaneously 2 times per day as an adjunct to recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-pa) treatment did not show a beneficial effect on mortality. however, studies using full-dose intravenous heparin therapy demonstrated that heparin improves patency after coronary thrombolysis with rt-pa.
autoradiographic evaluation of monoclonal antibodies' access to melanoma-associated antigens in melanoma xenografts. autoradiography of nude mice bearing human malignant melanoma xenografts was performed to characterize the distribution pattern of radioiodinated anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies (moab) and fragments in macroscopic tumor nodules. non-uniformity of radioactivity distribution was seen in all moab-xenograft combinations. the predominant patterns were marked deposition of radioactivity either in the periphery of nodules or in sharply delimited intra-tumoral foci. these patterns were generated by limitations in the accessibility of melanoma tissue rather than gross necrosis or heterogeneity of antigen expression. computer-aided densitometry of autoradiograms was used to elaborate the difference of accumulation in intra-tumoral hot spots versus cold areas. it was found that increasing uniformity was achieved by increasing the dose of moab (i.e., intact igg) injected, whereas a reduction in the size of moab (igg greater than f(ab')2 greater than fab) showed no such effect.
traumatic popliteal artery pseudoaneurysms: case report and review of the literature. traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the popliteal artery are an uncommon late complication of arterial injury. although reviewed extensively in wartime, they occur less frequently in civilian trauma and have accordingly been less frequently studied. a case report of a traumatic popliteal artery pseudoaneurysm and review of the literature are presented.
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion. a case report. adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus. such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts. since standard therapy, oophorectomy, was performed, the patient was surgically castrated. a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation, except when necrotic.
scatter photocoagulation restores tissue hypoxia in experimental vasoproliferative microangiopathy in miniature pigs. experimental retinal branch vein occlusion using argon laser photocoagulation in miniature pigs induced the development of ischemic retinal territories associated with preretinal neovascularization. preretinal partial pressure of oxygen (po2) measurements on the ischemic territories, using o2-sensitive microelectrodes, established that the ischemic retinal areas were hypoxic. scatter photocoagulation of these ischemic hypoxic territories restores the local po2 to the normal values within 2 weeks. hence, the reported inhibitory effect of photocoagulation on the development of retinal neovascularization could be due to a reversal effect on tissue hypoxia.
clinical differentiation of fulminant wilsonian hepatitis from other causes of hepatic failure. establishing a diagnosis of fulminant wilson's disease can be difficult because kayser-fleischer rings may not be present and parameters of copper metabolism, including serum and urinary copper, and serum ceruloplasmin levels are neither specific nor diagnostic. in this study, ratios of both the serum alkaline phosphatase to total bilirubin and aspartate transaminase to alanine transaminase were constructed to evaluate their usefulness in differentiating fulminant hepatic failure caused by wilson's disease (n = 6) from other etiologies (n = 43). an analysis of the data showed that cutoff values of less than 2.0 for the alkaline phosphatase-total bilirubin ratio and greater than 4.0 for the aspartate transaminase ratio were associated with a diagnosis of fulminant hepatic failure caused by wilson's disease only (p less than 0.001). the alkaline phosphatase-total bilirubin ratio of less than 2.0 provided 100% sensitivity and specificity in identifying fulminant hepatic failure caused by wilson's disease from other types of fulminant hepatic failure.
reconstructive surgery in chronic venous obstruction of the lower limbs. forty-one patients with chronic venous insufficiency due to venous trunk obstruction of the lower limbs underwent 43 flow reconstruction procedures consisting of either free veno-venous bypass or venous transposition. the indicating symptoms for these procedures were (1) progressive chronic edema, (2) claudication while walking, or (3) trophic lesions. doppler ultrasound and plethysmographic techniques were employed in the diagnosis while phlebography was considered the most useful and most essential technique. iliac vein obstruction was the most common venous obstruction, followed by superficial femoral vein obstruction. two patients were operated on for combined obstruction at both levels. free veno-venous bypass was the most frequently used procedure. in two cases of cavo-iliac obstruction, an original technique of femoro-axillary veno-venous bypass yielded good results. temporary arteriovenous fistulas to improve patency at sites distal to venous bypass were used in the most complex cases. good results were obtained in 80% of the operated cases. postoperative follow-up phlebograms were obtained in 30 of 43 operations.
age-related changes in membrane fluidity of erythrocytes in essential hypertension. in the present study, age- and calcium-related changes in the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes were examined in patients with essential hypertension by use of electron spin resonance method (esr). the erythrocytes were obtained from patients with essential hypertension. we examined the esr spectra for a fatty acid spin label agent (5-nitroxy stearate) incorporated into the erythrocyte membranes. the values of outer hyperfine splitting and order parameter (s) were significantly higher in subjects with essential hypertension than in the normotensive subjects. this finding indicates that the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes was lower in essential hypertension. calcium-loading of erythrocytes with the ca-ionophore a23187 decreased the membrane fluidity (s value was increased) more strongly in essential hypertension than in the normotensive subjects. furthermore, this ca-induced change in membrane fluidity was significantly correlated with age in essential hypertension. these results demonstrate that the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes is markedly decreased by calcium, especially in essential hypertension in older patients. this suggests an increased calcium-sensitivity of cell membranes in the aged hypertensive patient.
enhanced in vitro uptake and retention of 3h-tetraphenylphosphonium by nervous system tumor cells. photodynamic therapy is a promising treatment for human brain tumors because of the selective retention of certain compounds by tumor cells. certain lipophilic cationic compounds, such as tetraphenylphosphonium (tpp), are selectively taken up by a variety of carcinomas. although preferential retention of tpp has been demonstrated for the breast carcinoma cell line mcf-7, this compound had not been tested previously on cells derived from nervous system tumors. in the present study, tritiated-tpp (3h-tpp) uptake and retention for eight different cell cultures of three histologically different types of nervous system tumors was measured and the data were compared to a positive control (mcf-7) and negative controls (normal african green monkey kidney epithelium (cv-1) and the normal human fibroblast (wi-38) cell lines). uptake and retention characteristics could be grouped by specific pathological tumor types, but individual tumor variability was notable. malignant astrocytoma (grade iii/iii glioblastoma) and malignant neurofibrosarcoma cells showed preferential uptake and retention of 3h-tpp relative to meningioma cells and normal controls. a clonogenic assay utilizing the cytotoxic lipophilic cationic compound dequalinium showed strong retainers of 3h-tpp to be more susceptible to the effects of dequalinium than weak retainers. these data demonstrate that certain human and experimental animal nervous system tumor cell lines retain lipophilic compounds possessing a delocalized positive charge. lipophilic cationic compounds may be useful in the intraoperative delineation of tumor margins and in the photodynamic therapy of certain nervous system tumors.
disseminated human malignant melanoma in congenitally immune-deficient (bg/nu/xid) mice. congenitally immune-deficient bg/nu/xid (bnx) mice are severely compromised in their ability to mount t-cell, b-cell, and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cell responses. successful engraftment of bnx mice with human hematopoietic stem cells has been demonstrated recently. we have investigated the potential use of bnx mice for studies relating to the biology and immunotherapy of human malignant melanoma. the intravenous injection of fresh single-cell suspensions of human malignant melanomas into mice resulted in widely disseminated disease. metastatic spread of human melanoma in bnx mice mimicked that observed in patients: eg, there were numerous tumor nodules identified in the subcutaneous tissues as well as in a variety of visceral organs, including spleen, kidneys, thyroid, adrenals, lungs, heart, and brain. bnx mouse lymph nodes were replaced consistently by human malignant melanoma cells. the presence of human tumor cells in these mice was confirmed by histologic analysis and microcytofluorometry analyses using human melanoma-specific monoclonal antibodies (mabs). moreover, human melanoma cells passaged in bnx mice remained lysable in vitro by specifically cytolytic, autologous human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (tils). the capacity of fresh human malignant melanoma to disseminate widely in bnx mice may prove valuable not only for study of the biology of metastatic spread but also for studies of the immunotherapy of human melanoma using melanoma-specific mabs and chemotherapeutic agents, as well as human tils and lak cells with or without retrovirus-mediated gene transfer modification.
evaluation of wc3 rotavirus vaccine and correlates of protection in healthy infants. the safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of wc3 rotavirus vaccine was evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of healthy infants 2-12 months of age; 103 received one dose of vaccine and 103 received placebo. vaccination appeared to be safe and induced an antibody response (wc3 neutralizing antibody) in 97% of vaccinees. only 9 (9%) of these, however, produced antibody to human rotavirus serotypes; at least 7 of the 9 were naturally infected before vaccination. neither the number of symptomatic episodes of rotavirus diarrhea (21 vs 25) nor the number of moderate to severe rotavirus illnesses (9 vs. 15) was significantly different in vaccine or placebo recipients, respectively, during a predominantly serotype 1 rotavirus season. a slight but significant decrease in mean symptom score was detected in vaccine recipients. despite an overall lack of efficacy, protection could be correlated to previous rotavirus infection, high levels of wc3 neutralizing antibody, and preexisting (maternal) serotype 1 neutralizing antibody with a titer greater than or equal to 30.
serial left ventricular performance evaluated by cardiac catheterization before, immediately after and at 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. although impaired ventricular function has been shown to improve after aortic valve replacement, there are few data on hemodynamic changes after balloon aortic valvuloplasty based on follow-up catheterization. of 71 patients surviving 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty, 41 agreed to late recatheterization. all patients had pre- and postvalvuloplasty and 6 month catheterization data measured with high fidelity micromanometer pressure recordings and simultaneous digital subtraction left ventriculography. the hemodynamic result immediately after valvuloplasty included a reduction in the aortic valve gradient and a moderate increase in aortic valve area (0.51 +/- 0.14 to 0.81 +/- 0.19 cm2, p less than 0.0001). ejection fraction increased slightly (52 +/- 18 to 55 +/- 17%, p less than 0.0001) despite a decrease in peak positive rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (dp/dt 1,650 +/- 460 to 1,500 +/- 490 mm hg/s, p less than 0.05). there was also a decrease in left ventricular afterload and a small decrease in preload. at 6 month recatheterization, the mean aortic valve gradient and area were similar to baseline values, with 31 (76%) of 41 patients demonstrating valvular restenosis. at 6 months many left ventricular hemodynamic variables, including peak positive dp/dt and stroke work, also resembled prevalvuloplasty values. however, left ventricular end-diastolic volume was reduced (111 +/- 40 ml at 6 months versus 136 +/- 52 ml before valvuloplasty, p less than 0.01). the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was unchanged from prevalvuloplasty values in the study group of 41 patients, but was significantly improved in 9 of 15 patients with a baseline ejection fraction less than 50%.
chondrosarcoma of the jaws: clinical findings, histopathology, and treatment. three cases of chondrosarcoma involving the jaws are presented, one in the maxilla and two in the mandible. the salient points of clinical presentation elucidated by this series of cases are that a widened periodontal ligament space is present in chondrosarcomas as well as in osteosarcomas, and that a slowly increasing diastema may be the earliest clinical sign. the most important lesson to be learned from the histopathology is that one should not accept a diagnosis of a benign cartilaginous tumor of the jaws. treatment of these lesions should consist of wide surgical excision and consideration of adjunctive or palliative radiotherapy, especially in the maxilla. it should also be noted that recurrences may develop 10 to 20 years later, and follow-up should be lifelong.
peptic ulcer surgery during the h2-receptor antagonist era: a population-based epidemiological study of ulcer surgery in helsinki from 1972 to 1987. to evaluate the effects of improvements in medical therapy on the incidence of, indications for and operative methods used in peptic ulcer surgery, all cases of primary peptic ulcer surgery among adults in the city of helsinki in the years 1972, 1977, 1982 and 1987 were analysed. there was a total of 565 such cases in a population which consisted of 5.2 x 10(5) individuals in 1972 and 4.8 x 10(5) individuals in 1987. the introduction of h2-receptor antagonists in 1979 was associated with a fall in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer operations, from 15.5 to 6.7 per 10(5) individuals, and a fall in the annual incidence of elective gastric ulcer operations, from 9.4 to 3.1 per 10(5) individuals (p less than 0.05). the decrease was greatest among males with duodenal ulcer. in contrast, the annual incidence of emergency surgery for ulcer haemorrhage and perforation (all types of ulcers) remained relatively stable, varying from 7.2 to 10.2 per 10(5) inhabitants over the observation period (n.s.). the mean age of patients undergoing elective surgery remained essentially unchanged. the mean age of patients undergoing emergency surgery increased. the decrease in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer surgery occurred mainly in relation to proximal gastric vagotomy. there was a concomitant relative increase in the incidence of gastric resection. the types of operative procedures used in cases of pyloric, prepyloric and gastric ulcer remained unchanged over the years 1972 to 1987.
primary intracerebral sarcoma in childhood: case report with electron-microscope study. a case of a primary intracerebral sarcoma is described in a 5-year-old girl. histology and immunohistochemistry excluded the diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma, a malignant haemangiopericytoma or a fibrosarcoma; electron-microscopical findings indicated that the origin of the sarcoma was in the pia mater.
metastatic carcinoma to the retina. clinicopathologic findings in two cases. two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported. one patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina; this was confirmed postmortem. the other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism. the diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen.
technetium-99m-hmpao brain spect in medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy: a postoperative evaluation. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the predictive value of interictal single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) using technetium-99m-labeled hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (hmpao) for the outcome after temporal lobectomy in patients with complex partial seizures. out of 40 patients, 21 underwent right-sided and 19 left-sided temporal lobectomy. eeg and ct/mri were primarily used to select the side of surgery. spect results correlated with temporal lobectomy in 68% of the patients. after surgical intervention, memory function was tested for both sides. following left-sided temporal lobectomy, verbal memory was impaired in 8% of the patients, if spect agreed with the side selected for surgery, but in 83%, if it diverged from it. in the present study, there was no relationship between spect concordance with the side of temporal lobectomy and outcome as to seizure frequency and non-verbal memory. we conclude that preoperative interictal hmpao/spect can contribute to the prediction of postoperative verbal memory function and that this method should be considered for use prior to temporal lobectomy.
pharmacokinetics of acyclovir in the term human pregnancy and neonate. concern about neonatal herpes often leads to cesarean delivery of infants in women with a history of genital herpes. the antiviral drug acyclovir has been used effectively to suppress genital herpes simplex virus recurrences in nonpregnant adults. its administration to pregnant women with recurrent genital herpes may reduce herpes simplex virus recurrences and thus may decrease the cesarean section rate among this population. to study the pharmacokinetics, safety, and patient tolerance of suppressive oral acyclovir, either 200 mg (n = 7) or 400 mg (n = 8) was administered orally every 8 hours to pregnant women with a history of recurrent herpes simplex virus, from 38 weeks' gestation until delivery. the mean +/- sd plasma levels for the 200 and 400 mg groups, respectively, were: first dose peak, 1.7 +/- 0.6 and 2.3 +/- 1.0 mumol/l; steady-state trough, 0.7 +/- 0.3 and 0.8 +/- 0.6 mumol/l; steady-state peak, 1.9 +/- 1.0 and 3.3 +/- 1.0 mumol/l. in late gestation maternal acyclovir pharmacokinetics were similar to those of nonpregnant adults from other studies. acyclovir was concentrated in the amniotic fluid; however, there was no accumulation in the fetus (mean maternal/infant plasma ratio at delivery was 1.3). acyclovir was well tolerated, and no toxicity was seen in the mothers or infants. the administration of acyclovir, 400 mg every 8 hours, appears appropriate for use in an efficacy and safety study regarding suppression of herpes simplex virus recurrences during the last weeks of pregnancy.
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases. sixty cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (vin) were analyzed clinicopathologically (24 vin i, 9 vin ii, 27 vin iii). the ages of the patients ranged from 21 to 83 years (mean, 53.7). colposcopic examinations showed the presence of white areas in 29 cases, red areas in 9, acetowhite areas in 6 and other alterations in 13. one-third of the lesions were multifocal. pruritus and burning were present in 65% of the cases. fifty-one percent of the cases showed histologic changes suggestive of human papillomavirus (hpv) infection; the mean age of those patients was significantly lower than that of patients without hpv infection. in 15 cases of vin, hpv dna testing was performed with southern blot hybridization; in three (20%) of those specimens hpv 16 episomal dna was identified. epithelial alterations surrounding the areas of vin were found in 24 cases (40%)-23 squamous cellular hyperplasias and 1 lichen sclerosus. different types of treatment were performed according to the different grades of vin: medical therapy, diathermocoagulation, local excision, hemivulvectomy and total vulvectomy. follow-up was possible in 52 cases, with a mean of 33 months (range, 3-98). two cases of vin i showed progression of disease over 12-24 months.
insulin resistance in noncirrhotic idiopathic portal hypertension. to explore further the pathogenesis of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance observed in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension, we studied a 35-year-old woman with presinusoidal portal hypertension without cirrhosis due to nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver. after oral glucose ingestion, glucose tolerance remained normal; however, this occurred at the expense of a markedly hyperinsulinemic plasma response, suggesting the presence of insulin resistance. to examine this question more directly, we performed a stepwise euglycemic insulin clamp study in combination with an infusion of [6-3h]glucose and [1-14c]palmitate and indirect calorimetry. the ability of insulin to promote total body (primarily muscle) glucose uptake was markedly impaired, whereas its effect to suppress hepatic glucose production was normal compared with results obtained in nine healthy subjects. moreover, insulin failed to normally suppress plasma free fatty acid turnover and oxidation in this patient. this informative case demonstrates that portal hypertension alone, without hepatic dysfunction from cirrhosis, is associated with impaired insulin-mediated glucose and plasma free fatty acid metabolism and may also play a predominant role in the development of insulin resistance in many cirrhotic patients.
neglected factors in chronic pain treatment outcome studies--referral patterns, failure to enter treatment, and attrition. an increasing number of chronic pain treatment outcome studies have appeared in the literature. in general, these studies support the efficacy of multidisciplinary pain programs, as well as specific treatment modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation. reviews of this literature have tended to be cautiously optimistic. some concerns, however, have been raised about the methodological adequacy of these studies, particularly in terms of the lack of control groups, the brief duration of follow-up periods, and the vague criteria used for establishing the success of the therapeutic interventions. other factors that mitigate conclusions regarding the generalizability of the favorable results reported need to be considered. in this paper 3 rarely discussed topics that are implicit within most treatment outcome studies and that need to be given greater attention are examined. these topics include: (1) referral patterns to pain clinics (who are referred to pain clinics, when, and how representative is the referred sample?); (2) failure to enter treatment (e.g., exclusion criteria, lack of available financial support to cover the cost of treatment, patient's refusal to accept recommendations), and consequently, the representativeness of the treated sample; and (3) patient's attrition. in this paper we discuss each of these factors as they underscore important qualifications that have to be made in evaluating treatment outcome studies.
regional obesity and risk of cardiovascular disease; the framingham study. risk of cardiovascular events was determined over 24 years of surveillance in relation to general adiposity reflected by relative weight and by regional obesity estimated by skinfolds and waist girth per inch of height. upper quintile values of relative weight, subscapular skinfolds and waist girth were each associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease in both sexes. risk of total cardiovascular events increased with the degree of regional, central or abdominal obesity. mortality from cardiovascular disease was also increased. increased relative weight and central obesity were both associated with increased risk factors including cholesterol, blood pressure, glucose and uric acid. changes in weight were mirrored by changes in risk factors with linear trends over a 15 lb range of weight fluctuations. subscapular skinfold and the ratio of subscapular-to-triceps skinfold, measures of central obesity, were in either sex also associated with an increased probability of coronary attacks in particular. the subscapular skinfold contributed to chd risk independent of body mass index (bmi). multivariate analyses taking all the risk factors into account indicate an independent effect of abdominal obesity on stroke, cardiac failure and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in men. in women, only the subscapular-to-triceps skinfold ratio independently contributes to chd, cardiovascular and all cause mortality. regional obesity appears to be an independent contributor to cardiovascular disease at a given level of general adiposity, its effect only partially mediated through promotion of other known risk factors. these data suggest that cardiovascular disease is as closely linked to abdominal as to general adiposity.
controversies in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis an increasing number of cases of sore throat caused by group a beta-hemolytic streptococci occur with concomitant colonization by organisms that may "protect" the streptococci through beta-lactamase inactivation of penicillin at the site of infection. the failure of penicillin to eradicate many of these bacteria, which include staphylococcus aureus, haemophilus influenzae, moraxella (branhamella) catarrhalis and a multitude of pharyngeal anaerobes, may help to explain why penicillin is sometimes ineffective for acute and recurrent group a streptococcal infections. therapeutic alternatives currently include cephalosporins, erythromycin, rifampin combined with penicillin, amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and others.
carcinoma of the external auditory canal: an update. this review is a continuation of the series of 35 cases of carcinoma of the external auditory canal originally reported by the senior author and colleagues. eighteen additional cases have been evaluated and treated since 1976. preoperative high-resolution computed tomographic scanning has replaced polytomography, and improved surgical skull base approaches have allowed for extended resections of advanced lesions. a revised classification for local and extensive lesions is presented. the prognosis for localized tumors treated by en bloc resection remains excellent, whereas prognosis for extensive lesions might be more dependent on histologic type and grade of tumor.
development and characterization of a new, highly specific antibody to the human chorionic gonadotropin-beta fragment. in addition to high concentrations of hcg, pregnancy urine contains even higher concentrations of a fragment of the hcg beta-subunit. this biologically inactive material complicates immunological measurement of hcg, since it cross-reacts with many polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to the hcg beta-subunit that are employed for assays of hcg in urine. although we and others have developed antibodies to this fragment, specific measurement of the fragment in the presence of free hcg beta has remained difficult due to intrinsic cross-reactivity of these antibodies with the intact hcg beta. rather than attempt to increase specificity by assay optimization, we developed a new, highly specific monoclonal antibody, designated b210, which cross-reacts less than 0.1% with the free hcg beta-subunit in both liquid and solid phase immunoassay formats. we have used this new monoclonal antibody in immunoradiometric assays to measure specifically the hcg beta fragment in urine throughout pregnancy as well as in the sera of two individuals with cancers producing the hcg beta-subunit. we discovered that the hcg beta fragment can bind three monoclonal antibodies simultaneously, indicating that although the epitope for antibody b210 is a new determinant exposed on the hcg beta fragment and not on intact hcg or on free hcg beta-subunit, the hcg beta fragment retains at least two other hcg beta-related epitopes intact, i.e. those that bind monoclonal antibodies b108 and b201.
transvaginal approach for repair of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn's disease. the management of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn's disease is difficult and often unsatisfactory. between december 1983 and november 1988, 13 patients with crohn's disease underwent repair of rectovaginal fistulae via a transvaginal approach. all patients had a diverting intestinal stoma either as part of the initial step in the staged management of intractable perianal disease or concurrent with the repair of the rectovaginal fistula. each of the patients had low or mid septal fistulae; high fistulae generally are treated transabdominally and are not the focus of this discussion. fistulae were eradicated in 12 of the 13 women and did not recur during the follow-up period, which averaged 50 months (range, 9 to 68 months). the only treatment failure was a patient who had a markedly diseased colon from the cecum to the rectum and a very low-lying fistula. it is concluded that a modified transvaginal approach is an effective method for repair of rectovaginal fistulae secondary to crohn's disease.
inhibition by dexamethasone of histamine production in allergic inflammation in rats. in an allergic inflammation model of air pouch type in rats, histamine level in the pouch fluid and histidine decarboxylase activity of pouch wall tissues in the postanaphylaxis phase were increased. although treatment with dexamethasone failed to inhibit histamine release from mast cells in the anaphylaxis phase, histamine production in the postanaphylaxis phase was inhibited dose dependently. histamine production-increasing activity in the pouch fluid collected 8 h after the ag challenge, which was estimated by an activity to stimulate histamine production by bone marrow cells, was decreased by the administration of dexamethasone at the time of the ag challenge. the addition of steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, dexamethasone, prednisolone, or hydrocortisone, into the incubation medium inhibited the pouch fluid-induced histamine production by bone marrow cells. hydrocortisone mesylate antagonized the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on histamine production by bone marrow cells. however, hydrocortisone mesylate failed to recover the decrease in histamine production-increasing activity of the pouch fluid collected from dexamethasone-treated rats. in addition, the dialyzed sample of pouch fluid obtained from dexamethasone-treated nonsensitized rats did not reduce the stimulated histamine production by the pouch fluid sample obtained from the sensitized rats. however, increase in histamine production of bone marrow cells stimulated by the pouch fluid was not inhibited by cyclosporin a that inhibited histamine production induced by con a. this observation indicates that the pouch fluid has no effect to induce production of the histamine production-increasing factor by bone marrow cells. consequently, it is suggested that dexamethasone inhibits not only the production of histamine production-increasing factor but also the response of histamine-producing cells to this factor.
risk factors for white matter changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly. we found increased age (p = 0.001) and history or evidence of stroke (p = 0.016) to be significant independent multivariate predictors of the presence and severity of leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging brain scans in a mixed population of 35 elderly psychiatric patients and 25 neurologically healthy elderly volunteers. these results suggest that subcortical ischemia, as well as age-related changes that may not be vascular in origin, contribute to the emergence of periventricular and other deep white matter hyperintensities that are commonly seen on the magnetic resonance imaging brain scans of older adults.
combined gadolinium-enhanced and fat-saturation mr imaging of renal masses. combined gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement and fat-saturation (fs) spin-echo (se) magnetic resonance (mr) imaging for the detection and characterization of renal masses was evaluated in 43 patients with a total of 71 lesions (28 solid masses and 43 cysts). se mr sequences compared were the following: short repetition time (tr)/echo time (te), conventional se, short tr/te fs se, long tr/te conventional se, gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te conventional se, and gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te fs se techniques. mr findings were compared with findings of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (ct) and with pathologic findings in all patients. the sensitivities for detection of renal masses with gadolinium-enhanced fs (71 of 71 lesions) and with gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te conventional (65 of 71 lesions) se sequences were significantly (p less than .01) greater than with any unenhanced (short tr/te conventional [40 of 71 lesions], or long tr/te [39 of 71 lesions]) se sequence. lesion characterization was also best with the gadolinium-enhanced fs se sequence (65 of 71 lesions correctly classified). when combined pre- and postcontrast short tr/te fs se images were analyzed with both qualitative (visual) and quantitative (region-of-interest measurements) assessment, lesion characterization improved even further (70 of 71 lesions were correctly characterized). all lesions detected with ct were visualized with the gadolinium-enhanced fs se mr sequence, which in addition depicted seven cysts and two small renal cell carcinomas. in summary, the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine, especially when combined with the fs technique, was superior to unenhanced mr imaging for detection and characterization of renal lesions.
ultrasound-doppler diagnosis of budd-chiari syndrome. we report a case of apparently idiopathic budd-chiari syndrome, diagnosed by ultrasound and doppler sonography, in a patient with latent myeloproliferative disease. this case proves that doppler sonography shows in the hepatic veins a flow pattern suggestive of partial thrombotic obstruction. moreover, we suggest that the search for a latent myeloproliferative disorder, by means of the spontaneous erythroid colonies formation in culture of bone marrow or blood mononuclear cells, should be routinely included in the diagnostic evaluation of each case of hepatic vein thrombosis without other recognizable causes.
results and follow-up after percutaneous pulsed laser-assisted balloon angioplasty guided by spectroscopy background. few data are available on the long-term outcome of patients who undergo laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for recanalization of occluded peripheral arteries. because the cost of laser angioplasty is high, the value of the method should be carefully analyzed before it can be considered a routine method for recanalization. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late results of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in patients who could not be recanalized by conventional techniques. methods and results. laser angioplasty was performed in 66 patients with total occlusion of the iliofemoral artery in whom mechanical techniques failed to recanalize the obstructed vessel. the system consisted of a pulsed dye laser operated at 480 nm, 2 microseconds/pulse, 5 hz, 50 mj/pulse coupled into a 0.021-in. laser catheter. the treatment laser was connected with a diagnostic laser to induce tissue fluorescence for spectroscopic analysis via the same fiber. the treatment laser was emitted only when atheromatous tissue was recognized. after a pilot hole was created by laser emission, dilatation was performed to enlarge the channel. the mean length of occlusion was 8.8 +/- 6.1 cm. the primary success rate was 82%. it did not depend on the length of occlusion but was greater in non-calcified than in calcified lesions (88% versus 71%, p less than 0.03). complications included seven early reocclusions that could be recanalized and eight perforations without clinical sequelae. at a mean 18-month follow-up, 64% of the laser-treated arteries remained patent. the rate of patency was related neither to the length of the occlusion nor to calcifications but was lower in patients who had early reocclusion (p less than 0.02). conclusions. pulsed dye laser-assisted balloon angioplasty is effective for recanalization of totally occluded arteries that cannot be treated by conventional means. the efficacy is limited by calcifications. the long-term patency rate is acceptable given the severity of the lesions.
acquired childhood aphasia. outcome 1 year after onset. the effects of the variables age at onset, cause, severity and bilaterality of lesion, and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children. analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia. the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans. most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset. recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories. complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases.
the management of postoperative chylous ascites. a case report and literature review. chylous ascites remains rare as a complication of surgical intervention. although therapeutic manoeuvres to control chylous ascites have been developed over the past 20 years, its pathophysiology is poorly understood. conservative approaches involving dietary restriction of long-chain triglycerides and salt, together with multiple paracenteses, are still the therapies of choice. persistent chylous ascites may be treated surgically by ligation of leaking lymphatics or implantation of a peritoneovenous shunt once the lymphatic anatomy has been defined by preoperative investigations. we report a case of chylous ascites developing after laparotomy and duodenotomy for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, which did not respond adequately to medical therapy and was successfully managed by the insertion of a peritoneovenous shunt.
detection and location of myocardial infarction using technetium-99m sestamibi imaging at rest. technetium-99m (tc-99m) sestamibi imaging at rest has been used to detect and localize myocardial infarction. the largest study to date is a cooperative study of 146 patients in 17 institutions. there were 24 normal subjects and 122 patients with documented myocardial infarction based on clinical, enzymatic or electrocardiographic criteria. the presence of segmental myocardial perfusion defects was compared to the presence of a q wave on the electrocardiogram or wall motion abnormality on gated blood pool scans, performed within 48 hours of the tc-99m sestamibi study. of the 122 infarct patients, 118 (97%) showed perfusion abnormalities by tc-99m sestamibi imaging. a perfusion defect was found in 110 (99%) of 111 patients with a q wave and a wall motion abnormality, 113 (99%) of 114 patients with a wall motion abnormality and 113 (98%) of 115 patients with a q wave. of the 24 normal subjects, 22 (92%) had normal tc-99m sestamibi images. in 75% of 1,986 segments, both a tc-99m sestamibi defect and a regional wall motion abnormality on gated blood scans were present. in 11% of segments, wall motion was normal but tc-99m sestamibi imaging was abnormal; in 14% of segments, wall motion was abnormal and tc-99m sestamibi images were normal. in the 24 control subjects, 99% of the segments were normal. thirty-eight patients had coronary angiography. a close relation existed between the coronary anatomy and myocardial tc-99m sestamibi uptake. all 9 territories supplied by an occluded vessel and poor collaterals had grade 0 uptake (scale 0 to 2: 0 = markedly reduced; 2 = normal).
nonendoscopic percutaneous gastrostomy. tight peritoneal adherence of the stomach to the abdominal wall as a prerequisite of percutaneous gastrostomy can be achieved by a newly developed cannula. it serves for puncture and fixation of the gastric wall. thus, percutaneous gastrostomy can be established safely even in instances of an endoscopically nonaccessible stomach. further applications of the device for the purpose of intestinopexy and facilitation of endoscopic procedures are being evaluated.
tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma: echocardiographic characterization. we report a tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma initially detected by transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography and subsequently characterized by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. the mass was excised during open heart operation, and the diagnosis was verified grossly and histopathologically. transesophageal echocardiography usually provides images far superior to those from transthoracic echocardiography and may be a useful adjunct for intraoperative localization of intracardiac tumors for excision.
nevus flammeus. discordance in monozygotic twins. nevus flammeus has been described as an inherited vascular anomaly. we report two cases of nevus flammeus, each appearing in one of two monozygotic twins. this finding supports the idea that nevus flammeus results from embryologic mishap rather than genetic transmission.
sensitivity and specificity of various morphological features of cervical condylomas. an in situ hybridization study. fifty-seven cervical biopsy specimens or endocervical curettings showing condyloma, changes suggestive of condyloma, or no changes of condyloma were analyzed for presence of nuclear atypia (nuclear enlargement and irregularity in superficial epithelium), presence of multinucleated cells, and presence of perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing in superficial squamous epithelium. the findings were correlated with results of in situ hybridization with biotin-labeled human papillomavirus dna probes. moderate nuclear atypia was significantly more specific than perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing and 100% sensitive for predicting cases positive for human papillomavirus. of the various morphological features analyzed, perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing had the lowest specificity for predicting positive results on in situ hybridization.
prognostic significance of the white nipple sign in variceal bleeding. the prognostic significance of the white nipple sign in variceal bleeding was evaluated prospectively in 203 separate admissions for bleeding esophageal varices in 145 cirrhotic patients. during all admissions a standardized protocol of management defined the failure of transfusion and vasoactive drugs (conservative measures) to stop bleeding and the occurrence of early rebleeding, at which time either emergency sclerotherapy or a staple transection of the esophagus was used. the finding of a white nipple in 18 admissions (9%) did not have predictive value as regards the failure of conservative measures to stop bleeding within 24 hours or rebleeding within 5 days, and there was no association with increased mortality. in one case, a white nipple was seen to occur after spontaneous cessation of a variceal venous spurt, suggesting it is a platelet-fibrin plug. the white nipple sign is diagnostic of a varix that has bled but has no adverse prognostic significance.
the role of antihistamines in the treatment of chronic urticaria. for many years, h1 antihistamines have been the primary management option for urticaria. however, undesirable side effects, particularly daytime sedation, have limited the usefulness of these classic antihistamines. a new class of peripherally acting, nonsedating antihistamines (e.g., terfenadine, astemizole, loratadine, and cetirizine) has proved to have clinical efficacy comparable with the classic antihistamines. in comparative trials between the various nonsedating agents, no significant difference in efficacy has been noted. all these agents have good safety profiles, although astemizole use has been correlated with increased appetite and weight gain in some patients, and cetirizine has caused slightly increased sedative effects compared with placebo. although h1/h2 antihistamine combinations have been proposed as possible treatments for urticaria, studies have produced mixed results.
coagulation studies in the syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets. the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic) in the syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets (hellp) is debated. we assessed the occurrence of decompensated and compensated dic (using predefined criteria) in 15 consecutive nulliparous pregnant patients with gestational hypertension combined with the hellp syndrome and in 12 consecutive nulliparous controls with pregnancy induced hypertension (pih) but without the hellp syndrome. a combination of routine coagulation assays revealed the absence of decompensated dic in all studied patients. however, using more specific and sensitive coagulation assays, compensated dic was observed in all hellp patients and in three patients in the control group. the mean values of antithrombin iii, thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes and protein c in the hellp and the control group were 66 vs 87% (p = 0.0004), 21 vs 8 ng/ml (p = 0.0008) and 57 vs 90% (p = 0.0018) respectively. we conclude that hellp patients show evidence of compensated dic which may have pathophysiological significance for the observed organ damage.
unusual skin tumors in langerhans' cell histiocytosis. a case of langerhans' cell histiocytosis with unusual skin manifestations in the form of multiple large skin tumors is described. the skin lesions responded partially to chemotherapy with etoposide and prednisone, and residual lesions were excised surgically. the patient developed central diabetes insipidus during treatment.
tuberculosis of the esophagus. tuberculosis of the esophagus is rare. more cases of secondary tuberculosis of the esophagus have been reported compared to primary esophageal tuberculosis. an illustrative case of primary tuberculosis of the esophagus is presented and 54 published cases of esophageal involvement in tuberculosis are reviewed. there were eight primary and 46 secondary cases of esophageal tuberculosis. there were more male than female patients (m/f = 2.6:1) with an average age of 39.2 years (range 6 months to 75 years). diagnosis can be difficult, being based on clinical, radiological, endoscopic, and histological features and on the response to chemotherapy. most cases can be successfully treated with antituberculous chemotherapy even in the presence of fistulous tracts. patients with esophageal tuberculosis in the presence of aids do not respond as well to antituberculous chemotherapy.
rectal irrigation with short-chain fatty acids for distal ulcerative colitis. preliminary report. colon cells from patients with ulcerative colitis utilize short-chain fatty acids inefficiently and may be exposed to decreased concentrations of these compounds. to test whether irrigation of the inflamed mucosa with short-chain fatty acids is useful, we conducted a six-week preliminary trial in 12 patients with distal colitis. each patient used twice daily rectal irrigations with 100 ml of a solution containing acetate (80 mm), propionate (30 mm), and butyrate (40 mm). two patients stopped at three weeks, one because of no improvement and the other because of complete resolution of symptoms. of the 10 who completed the trial, nine were judged to be at least much improved and showed a change in a mean disease activity index score from 7.9 +/- 0.3 (se) to 1.8 +/- 0.6 (se) (p less than or equal to 0.002) and in a mucosal histology score from 7.7 +/- 0.7 (se) to 2.6 +/- 0.7 (se) (p less than or equal to 0.002). thus, ulcerative colitis patients appear to benefit from increased contact with or higher than usual levels of these critical energy substrates.
rar-alpha gene rearrangements as a genetic marker for diagnosis and monitoring in acute promyelocytic leukemia. acute promyelocytic leukemias (apls) are characterized by a translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17. the translocation breakpoints have recently been identified and shown to involve the rar-alpha gene on 17 and myl on 15. here we report southern blotting analysis of 26 apls, including cases with normal karyotypes and atypical morphology, which showed rar-alpha rearrangements in 92% cases, myl rearrangements in 73%, and either rar-alpha or myl rearrangements in 100%. despite a negative clinical and morphologic picture, dna rearrangement analysis showed that neoplastic promyelocytes persisted in the bone marrow of two patients sampled after induction chemotherapy. therefore, the rar-alpha and myl rearrangements provide molecular markers for accurately diagnosing apls and monitoring the course of the disease during and after chemotherapy.
immunohistochemical detection of abnormal cell proliferation in colonic mucosa of subjects with polyps. previous studies have shown the presence of increased proliferation in the large bowel epithelium of those at high risk of developing colon cancer. an in vitro technique for labelling large bowel mucosa with the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine (brdu) was therefore developed and its ability to distinguish differences in mucosal proliferation between subjects with colorectal adenomas and normal controls was assessed. sigmoid biopsy specimens from 15 subjects with polyps and 15 age and sex matched controls were labelled and the incorporated brdu visualised with an immunohistochemical technique. mean labelling index (li) was significantly higher in those with polyps than in controls. differences in the pattern of labelling in colonic crypts were compared by the generation of cumulative labelling distributions. analysis showed a significant expansion of the proliferative compartment in the colon crypts of those with polyps. it is concluded that in vitro labelling with brdu provides a useful method for the assessment of mucosal proliferation in subjects at high risk of developing colon cancer.
eosinophil infiltration and degranulation in helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis. eosinophil granules contain cationic proteins, including the major basic protein, which are toxic to mammalian tissue. while eosinophils have been observed to comprise part of the inflammatory reaction in acute helicobacter pylori gastritis, the role of the eosinophil in the pathogenesis of chronic gastritis is unknown. we evaluated whether eosinophil infiltration and degranulation are associated with chronic gastritis and h. pylori infection. we studied eight patients with chronic h. pylori antral gastritis, three with chronic antral gastritis in the absence of h. pylori, 11 healthy age-matched volunteers without antral gastritis, and eight patients with h. pylori-negative chronic specific gastritis (three crohn's antral gastritis and five menetrier's disease). serial sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, with giemsa, and by a specific indirect immunofluorescence technique for eosinophil granule major basic protein. specimens were graded independently by three observers and scores of 0-3 were given for eosinophil infiltration and degranulation (0 = none to 3 = confluent infiltration and/or degranulation). in h. pylori antral gastritis, significantly greater eosinophil infiltration and degranulation were found compared to the normal group, menetrier's disease, and chronic h. pylori-negative gastritis. there was no significant difference between gastric crohn's disease and h. pylori gastritis. the severity of chronic gastritis was significantly correlated with the eosinophil score. eosinophil degranulation did not appear to be greater at or near sites of bacterial colonization in the h. pylori gastritis specimens. the results suggest that eosinophil infiltration and degranulation may be associated with h. pylori gastritis. we postulate that the release of toxic cationic proteins from eosinophils contributes to the inflammatory changes present in h. pylori gastritis.
variables influencing tumor uptake of anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies radioiodinated using para-iodobenzoyl (pib) conjugate tumor uptake was examined with respect to antigen expression, time-dependent biodistribution, dose of mab injected, tumor size, and tumor site (i.e., subcutaneous versus lung or liver metastases). nr-ml-05, 96.5, and p94 showed significantly greater uptake in subcutaneous tumors than cl207 and 5.1 (p less than 0.05). nr-ml-05 had a significantly higher tumor uptake at 24 hr (11.9 +/- 0.51) than at 72 hr (4.0 +/- 0.37) or 144 hr (2.7 +/- 0.84) after injection (p less than 0.001). the other four mabs had similar tumor distribution at all three time points. the tumor uptake of four mabs (96.5, p94, cl207. 5.1) differed with respect to in vitro versus in vivo binding to tumor, tumor type, dose of mab, and tumor site (subcutaneous versus metastases). in contrast, nr-ml-05 demonstrated consistent uptake in tumors independent of the above parameters. these data suggest that certain host parameters can influence in vivo tumor targeting depending on characteristics of each mab studied.
mapping chromosome band 11q23 in human acute leukemia with biotinylated probes: identification of 11q23 translocation breakpoints with a yeast artificial chromosome. translocations involving chromosome 11, band q23, are frequent recurring abnormalities in human acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia. we used 19 biotin-labeled probes derived from genes and anonymous cosmids for hybridization to metaphase chromosomes from leukemia cells that contained four translocations involving band 11q23: t(4;11)(q21;q23), t(6;11)(q27;q23), t(9;11)(p22;q23), and t(11;19)(q23;p13). the location of the cosmid probes relative to the breakpoint in 11q23 was the same in all translocations. of the cosmid clones containing known genes, cd3d was proximal and pbgd, thy1, srpr, and ets1 were distal to the breakpoint on 11q23. hybridization of genomic dna from a yeast clone containing yeast artificial chromosomes (yacs), that carry 320 kilobases (kb) of human dna including cd3d and cd3g genes, showed that the yacs were split in all four translocations. these results indicate that the breakpoint at 11q23 in each of these translocations occurs within the 320 kb encompassed by these yacs; whether the breakpoint within the yacs is precisely the same in the different translocations is presently unknown.
submandibular cystic hygroma resembling a plunging ranula in a neonate. review and report of a case. cystic hygromas are large lymphangiomas that are most often found in the posterior triangle of the neck and the axilla in children. they are most frequently found before age 2 and may be massive. after upper respiratory infection, they may become infected and enlarged, causing dysphagia and toxemia. the diagnosis can usually be made by history and physical examination and confirmed by biopsy. treatment is by surgical excision of small lesions and staged debulking excisions in more severe cases. a patient with a cystic hygroma having many clinical characteristics of a plunging ranula is presented. the cyst fluid was aspirated and analyzed for its amylase, sodium, potassium, chloride, urea nitrogen, glucose, and total protein content. the characteristics of the fluid were also compared with those of lymph and saliva. this report demonstrates the difficulty in determining the diagnosis of a tumor that has the clinical features of a cystic hygroma, as well as a plunging ranula. the necessity of a proper presurgical diagnosis is essential since the form of therapy for each is different and conflicting. a method that distinguishes between the cervical cystic hygroma and a plunging ranula by means of aspirated fluid is discussed.
chronic diarrhea in essential mixed cryoglobulinemia: a manifestation of visceral vasculitis? gastrointestinal involvement occurs frequently in essential mixed cryoglobulinemia, and most often involves the liver and spleen. intestinal involvement is much less common and is generally felt to be a late and often catastrophic manifestation of the disease due to severe vasculitis. occasionally, the disorder mimics inflammatory bowel disease, both clinically and radiographically. we recently cared for a patient with essential mixed cryoglobulinemia who developed persistent diarrhea. endoscopic evaluation revealed scattered petechial lesions in the duodenum and colon as well as prominent lymphoid hyperplasia in the terminal ileum. mucosal biopsies disclosed the presence of diffuse inflammation. we suggest that this patient's diarrhea was due to intestinal vasculitis and that prominent ileal lymphoid hyperplasia may be a manifestation of essential mixed cryoglobulinemia.
lymph node metastasis from papillary-follicular thyroid carcinoma in young patients. a total of 117 patients under 20 years of age with papillary and/or follicular thyroid cancer presented to the m. d. anderson cancer center between 1949 and 1987. the most common presenting symptom was a cervical mass. twenty percent of the patients had a history of prior irradiation. sixty percent initially had palpable lymph nodes, while 26% who had clinically negative examinations had pathologically positive lymph nodes. recurrence was highest in regional lymph nodes at 24%, with only a 4% recurrence rate at the primary site and a 3% recurrence rate at distant sites. there were no deaths due to the thyroid cancer. to maintain a low rate of recurrence, near-total thyroidectomy with neck dissection followed by iodine 131 treatment should be considered in these young patients.
effects of acute alcohol intake on tolerance to hypotension. the specific aim of this research was to test the hypothesis that intoxication with alcohol results in poor tolerance to hemorrhage. this was evaluated on the basis of blood pressure, cardiac output respiratory rate, blood flow to organs, and survival for 4 hr after hemorrhage. four groups of six swine per group were used (control, intoxicated, hemorrhage, and intoxicated-hemorrhage). the results revealed that blood alcohol concentrations near 0.1% greatly reduced tolerance to hemorrhage. intoxicated animals subjected to hemorrhage were unable to maintain an adequate cardiac output, blood pressure, or respiratory rate to sustain life. pigs tolerated higher blood alcohol concentrations, up to 0.35%, when not exposed to hemorrhage. also, unintoxicated pigs were able to compensate for severe hemorrhage. only one of the six pigs in the intoxicated-hemorrhage group survived for 4 hr after hemorrhage. in conclusion the body's ability to compensate and recover from hemorrhage was greatly reduced during intoxication. it is logical to assume that the ability to overcome numerous other stressors may also be reduced during intoxication.
risk ratios and risk differences in estimating the effect of risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly. this article reviews the nature of the effects of hypertension, smoking and cholesterol on the incidence of cardiovascular disease and emphasizes how these effects vary by age. in the methods section, we discuss briefly the concepts of additive and multiplicative statistical models as tools for summarizing data. in the results section, we summarize available data on the association between incident stroke and coronary heart disease in the elderly and each of these major risk factors. the traditional multiplicative model parsimoniously characterizes the individual and joint effects of age and high blood pressure in terms of risk ratios; but, for smoking and cholesterol, an additive model appears to be the most parsimonious. we discuss the consequences of these observations for the study and prevention of cardiovascular disease in the elderly.
surgical treatment of endomyocardial fibrosis: a new approach. endomyocardial fibrosis has been treated surgically for many years. for complete removal of fibrosis from both ventricles by the classic technique, each atrioventricular (av) valve was removed and replaced with a prosthesis. relapse of endomyocardial fibrosis has not been observed after surgical correction. reoperations have been carried out because of complications of valve prostheses. a new surgical technique for removal of ventricular fibrous tissue with preservation of the mitral and tricuspid valves was used in nine consecutive patients with endomyocardial fibrosis. initial results show a reduction of pulmonary hypertension, mean right and left atrial pressures and end-diastolic pressures in both ventricles. tricuspid annuloplasty was performed in seven patients and mitral annuloplasty in five. no valve prosthesis was used. there was no death and new york heart association functional class improved from class iii or iv in the preoperative period to class i or ii in the postoperative period. these data suggest that resection of endocardial fibrous tissue can be indicated early in the clinical course and performed with preservation of the av valves.
granular cell neoplasm of the extrahepatic biliary tree: morphological, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical study and review of the literature. a recent case of a biliary granular cell tumor of the cystic duct prompted a literature review and an extensive pathological examination of the tumor in question. a total of 44 cases have been described mostly in black females. most cases present with biliary symptoms, and simple surgical resection allows complete control of this benign condition. granular cell tumors are most likely derived from neural crest cells.
partial gastric corpectomy results in hypergastrinemia and development of gastric enterochromaffinlike-cell carcinoids in the rat. studies in the rat have shown that partial gastric corpectomy, in which about 75% of the acid-producing oxyntic mucosa was removed, leads to markedly reduced acid secretion and a feedback increase in the plasma gastrin levels. ten weeks after operation, the gastric enterochromaffin (ecl)-like cell density in the remaining part of the oxyntic mucosa had increased significantly. in the present study, the effects on the gastric ecl cells of lifelong persistent hypergastrinemia induced by partial (75%) corpectomy have been investigated. seventy-five partially corpectomized rats and 40 control rats were investigated for plasma gastrin and oxyntic mucosal changes in a 124-week study. the partially corpectomized rats showed increased plasma gastrin levels after the operation; the mean increase compared with the controls was almost 10-fold during the entire study. the remaining oxyntic mucosa of the partially corpectomized rats differed from that of control rats in two respects, showing first general hypertrophy and second a marked hyperplasia of argyrophil ecl cells. the degree and incidence of these changes increased towards the end of the study, i.e., in the aging rats. an age-related increase in ecl-cell density occurred spontaneously also in the control rats but to a lesser extent than in the partially corpectomized group. ecl-cell carcinoids were found in the oxyntic mucosa of 26 of the 75 partially corpectomized rats. the first carcinoid was found 78 weeks after the beginning of the study. six rats with carcinoids (23%) were found before week 104 (2 years) and the remainder, 20 (77%), were discovered later. no carcinoid tumor was found in the control rats. it is concluded that lifelong hypergastrinemia induced by partial corpectomy leads to the development of ecl-cell carcinoids in the oxyntic mucosa of some rats towards the end of their life span. this observation strongly supports the hypothesis that the gastric ecl-cell carcinoids found in rats treated with antisecretory drugs are caused by long-standing hypergastrinemia developing secondary to inhibition of gastric acid secretion.
alternative splicing of endothelial cell fibronectin mrna in the iiics region. functional significance. transforming growth factor-beta 1 (tgf-beta 1) is thought to play a role in modulating vascular cell function in vivo. in vitro, it decreases endothelial cell proliferation and migration. we postulated that these biologic activities could be mediated through tgf-beta 1 modulation of specific gene expression. therefore we differentially screened a human umbilical vein endothelial cell cdna library with cdnas prepared from both untreated and tgf-beta 1-treated bovine aortic endothelial cells. using this technique, we isolated many tgf-beta 1-induced cdna clones. sequence analysis of these cdnas showed that many of them corresponded to alternatively spliced fibronectin mrnas. these fibronectin clones all contained the extradomain i (ed i) but three different forms of the type iii connecting segment (iiics). these different fibronectin cdnas were expressed in bacteria and the recombinant proteins used to study the effects of iiics alternative splicing on cell attachment, spreading, and migration in bovine aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells and b16f10 melanoma cells. the results of these experiments show that attachment and spreading of bovine aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells depend primarily on the presence of the arg-gly-asp-ser (rgds) sequence in the recombinant fibronectin proteins. however attachment and spreading of bovine aortic endothelial cells are modulated by alternative splicing in the iiics region. specifically splicing of the iiics region decreases spreading and increases migration rates of the endothelial cells. on the contrary, using a cell line (b16f10 melanoma cells) that is known not to require the rgds sequence for adhesion confirmed previous findings that b16f10 melanoma cells do not require the presence of the rgds sequence for attachment and spreading. indeed b16f10 cells were able to attach and spread on two recombinant proteins that did not contain the rgds sequence. however attachment and spreading of b16f10 were dramatically inhibited when a 75-base pair dna fragment was removed from the 5' end of the iiics region. these results suggest that various regions of the fibronectin molecule may be able to interact with different cell populations to promote cell attachment and spreading, and that alternative splicing may modulate this process.
comparative study of the effects of three angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors on the cough reflex. to compare the effects of three different angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors on the cough reflex, capsaicin and citric acid challenge tests were done in normal subjects and hypertensive patients before and after administration of delapril, captopril, or enalapril. two groups of 7 normal subjects (single dose study: 15 mg delapril v 18.75 mg captopril or 2.5 mg enalapril) and a group of 6 mildly hypertensive patients (1 week study: cross-over administration of 30 mg/day delapril, 37.5 mg/day captopril, or 5 mg/day enalapril) were studied. another group of 6 patients with essential hypertension was treated with three ace inhibitors for 4 weeks in a randomized order, with a 2 week washout period between active therapies. aerosols of 1 mumol/l and 3 mumol/l capsaicin and 0.68% citric acid in 0.9% nacl were generated by an ultrasonic nebulizer, and the frequency of cough was counted during inhalation. delapril treatment resulted in substantially fewer patients with a significant increase (greater than or equal to 4 coughs during treatment than during the control period) in the frequency of cough than did captopril treatment. in the 1 and 4 week studies, enalapril and captopril had substantially more occurrences of significantly increased capsaicin-induced cough than did delapril. these results indicate that delapril has the least cough stimulatory effect among these ace inhibitors, which may be clinically beneficial.
surgical indication for aortic arch hypoplasia in infants. to determine the surgical indications for aortic arch hypoplasia, the distal arch outer diameter, distal arch index (ratio of the distal arch diameter to the normal aortic ring diameter), and postoperative pressure gradient across the aortic arch were studied in 23 patients under 6 months of age who underwent surgery for coarctation and/or aortic arch hypoplasia. the ratio of the pressure gradient across the arch to the right radial artery was used to evaluate the postoperative level of stenosis. the maximum ratio of the pressure gradient that could be tolerated after surgery was considered to be 0.15 from the operative results. negative correlations were found between the distal arch outer diameter and postoperative pressure gradient ratio (r = 0.80), and the distal arch index and postoperative pressure gradient ratio (r = 0.80). these correlations proved that in order to obtain a postoperative pressure gradient ratio of 0.15 or less, a distal arch outer diameter of 3.9 mm or more and a distal arch index of 0.63 or more were necessary. consequently, a distal arch outer diameter of 3.9 mm or a distal arch index of 0.63 is considered to indicate that aortic arch hypoplasia is in need of repair.
microspectrophotometric dna analysis in ulcerative colitis with special reference to its application in diagnosis of carcinoma and dysplasia. the deoxyribonucleic (dna) content was measured by microspectrophotometry in 100 specimens from 60 patients with ulcerative colitis, including six patients in whom the colitis was associated with carcinoma. some 23 of 30 (77%) specimens of dysplastic tissue showed aneuploidy or polyploidy, whereas 50 of 53 (94%) specimens of non-dysplastic tissue showed diploidy. the difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). polyploidy was often observed in non-dysplastic mucosa from patients who had carcinoma or dysplasia. in the non-dysplastic patients all samples of inflamed tissue showed diploidy. some 10% of samples without inflammation, however, also showed polyploidy. a good correlation was found between the frequency of polyploid cells and the grade of dysplasia. microspectrophotometric measurement of dna content proved useful in the assessment and diagnosis of dysplasia in ulcerative colitis and could be considered for screening high risk patients.
obesity, body fat distribution, and sex hormones in breast cancer patients. this study addresses the relationship between female sex hormones, obesity, body fat distribution, and breast cancer. increasing obesity correlated with a progressive fall in sex hormone-binding globulin (shbg) level and an increase in testosterone level. premenopausal breast cancer patients were found to have significantly lower levels of shbg compared with age-matched and weight-matched controls. this difference in shbg level was not noted in postmenopausal breast cancer patients. the shbg level decreased with increasing upper body fat localization in breast cancer patients and controls. this effect was more marked in breast cancer patients which may explain our earlier finding that women with upper body fat localization are at increased risk for developing breast cancer.
phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate: treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion. a 68-yr-old male with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia was given phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate intrapericardially for the treatment of malignant pericardial effusion. technetium-99m-sulfur colloid was used to verify catheter placement and to visualize distribution within the pericardium. estimated dosimetry for this mode of therapy is presented, and it is suggested that pericardial administration of phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate is the treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion.
diagnosis of magnesium-induced diarrhea background. there is no specific method of diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea. therefore, the frequency and clinical importance of diarrhea caused by magnesium are unknown. the purposes of this study were to establish a method for diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea and to apply it to patients with chronic diarrhea. methods. we measured fecal output of soluble magnesium and fecal magnesium concentration in 19 normal subjects with formed stools (15 collection periods), with non-magnesium-induced diarrhea (36 collection periods), and with diarrhea induced by magnesium hydroxide alone (11 collection periods) or in combination with phenolphthalein (3 collection periods), and in 359 patients with chronic diarrhea. results. the upper limits of fecal output of soluble magnesium and fecal magnesium concentration in normal subjects were 14.6 mmol per day and 45.2 mmol per liter, respectively. when normal subjects had diarrhea due to the ingestion of magnesium hydroxide alone or in combination with phenolphthalein, fecal magnesium output was always abnormally high. for each millimole increase in fecal magnesium output, fecal weight increased by approximately 7.3 g. the fecal magnesium concentration was very high when magnesium was the only cause of diarrhea but only moderately elevated when diarrhea was induced by magnesium hydroxide plus phenolphthalein. biochemical and clinical evidence indicated that excessive ingestion of magnesium was an important cause of chronic diarrhea in 15 of the 359 patients with chronic diarrhea (4.2 percent), if not the only cause. conclusions. quantitative fecal analysis for soluble magnesium is an accurate method of diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea. some patients with chronic diarrhea ingest excessive amounts of magnesium (in antacids or food supplements), and physicians may fail to discover this before embarking on an expensive and invasive diagnostic evaluation.
epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma. three cases of epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma are summarized and compared with reported cases. all patients had a long-standing tumor on a lower extremity that rapidly metastasized to the skin and proximal lymph nodes. the histologic picture was consistent with an intraepidermal eccrine sweat gland carcinoma.
placement of esophageal stethoscope by acoustic criteria does not consistently yield an optimal location for the monitoring of core temperature. the esophageal stethoscope has evolved into a device for both acoustic and core temperature monitoring. to test whether routine placement according to acoustic criteria results in placement of the core temperature sensor in the region of contiguity between the esophagus and the heart, we determined the depth of placement electrocardiographically. all patients were undergoing nonthoracic elective operations requiring general anesthesia and tracheal intubation. first, we established that different observers selected the same esophageal depth within +/- 1 cm electrocardiographically, using the criterion of a symmetric biphasic p wave of maximal amplitude (7 patients). then, in 30 more patients, we compared routine acoustic placements with the depths of the maximal-amplitude biphasic p wave. stethoscopes placed according to acoustic criteria were within +/- 3 cm of p-wave depths in 15 of 30 patients. in the remaining patients, measured discrepancies ranged up to 13.5 cm. we conclude that the prevailing stethoscope design, with a thermistor at the tip, below the acoustic window, does not ensure placement of the thermistor within the optimal region for monitoring of core temperature. a modification in design that would take advantage of the reliability of electrocardiographic positioning is suggested.
closure of leaking filtering blebs with cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive. five leaking filtering blebs, occurring between 10 months and 21 years after trabeculectomy, were closed with cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive. filtering bleb integrity was preserved in four cases, so that additional microsurgery was avoided. the only problem associated with use of tissue adhesive was the development of corneal abrasions in three cases. although it is an accepted treatment for these conjunctival fistulas, only nine previous cases have been reported to our knowledge. we strongly recommend the use of tissue adhesive as a presurgical treatment in the management of leaking filtering blebs which present as a late postoperative complication of glaucoma surgery.
diabetes mellitus and hypertension: a physiologic basis for a rational therapeutic approach. the basic mechanisms that initiate and sustain hypertension in the diabetic population are poorly understood. obesity, insulin, genetic factors, and abnormalities in calcium homeostasis may contribute, and could be related to an elevated na+/h+ antiport activity. in the first study described in this investigation, hypertensive subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) who had an elevated na+/li+ countertransport activity were found to have a lower whole body glucose utilization, a lower insulin-stimulated forearm carbohydrate oxidation, larger ultrasound kidney volume, and increased left ventricular mass index when compared with hypertensive iddm subjects with a normal na+/li+ countertransport activity or normotensive iddm subjects. thus an elevated na+/li+ countertransport activity appears to identify a subset of iddm patients who are more susceptible to the development of the renal and cardiac complications associated with hypertension. this underlines the importance of choosing an appropriate antihypertensive therapy that will not produce a deterioration in glucose and lipid metabolism. in the second part of the report, results are presented for the treatment of hypertensive patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with doxazosin. the selective alpha 1-inhibitor produced a significant reduction in blood pressure, together with favorable changes in the serum lipid profile. as a result, the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease was significantly reduced. throughout the study no patients required a dose reduction or discontinuation of doxazosin because of side effects, and no clinically significant changes in laboratory tests were apparent. thus doxazosin could be considered a useful antihypertensive agent in hypertensive patients with iddm who are insulin-resistant and who have renal and cardiac abnormalities.
massive hepatic infarction in systemic lupus erythematosus. liver disease in systemic lupus erythematosus, as demonstrated by abnormal histopathology, is rare and usually mild; typically, this hepatic disease is of chronic nature and not related to a hypercoagulable state. a patient is described in whom life-threatening hypercoagulability in association with systemic lupus erythematosus resulted in extensive liver infarction. follow-up radionuclide liver scintigraphy suggested that regenerative recovery in the infarcted areas of the liver may be delayed or absent, but there was no evident functional hepatic impairment.
rosacea and ulcerative colitis: a possible association. although rosacea was formerly believed to be associated with gastrointestinal upsets, no one any longer finds a significant association between rosacea and the intestinal tract. we describe four patients with a combination of ulcerative colitis and rosacea. in all four, ulcerative colitis preceded the onset of severe papulopustular rosacea, and we therefore feel that the severity of rosacea could have been due to the associated bowel disorder. in one, the severity and poor initial response of rosacea to treatment was clearly related to the activity of the ulcerative colitis, and the rosacea improved only after proctocolectomy. while it is possible that this purported association is fortuitous, we report these cases in the hope that others may have seen this combination of diseases, to our knowledge previously unreported.
orbital complications secondary to endoscopic sinus surgery. eight cases of significant orbital complications associated with endoscopic sinus surgery are described. the anatomic problems generally fall into four categories: nasolacrimal sac or duct injury, extraocular muscle injury, intraorbital hemorrhage/emphysema, or optic nerve injury. the successful management of each complication depends on a thorough knowledge of the anatomy and pathophysiology of the orbital injury. return to normal function of the traumatized orbital structures after medical and/or surgical intervention is anticipated. however, direct optic nerve injury with immediate visual field and/or acuity deficit is usually irreversible.
htlv-i-associated leukemia/lymphoma in south florida. we report here 10 cases of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma (atl) seen in south florida between february 1988 and july 1989. all were seropositive for human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) and seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1). dna extracted from tumor biopsies/peripheral blood lymphocytes of nine patients was shown by the polymerase chain reaction (pcr) to contain htlv-i proviral dna. blot hybridization of dna extracted from seven patients with an htlv-i cdna probe revealed a monoclonal pattern of proviral integration consistent with a diagnosis of atl. eight of the 10 patients were women. six patients were from haiti, three from jamaica, and one from the bahamas. all patients had very aggressive non-hodgkin's lymphoma. two patients presented with sinus and retro-orbital involvement; another had gastric lymphoma that perforated. nine patients developed hypercalcemia. eight patients died within 1 year of diagnosis. two were lost to follow-up. during the course of this study, 66 new cases of non-hodgkin's lymphoma were diagnosed at this hospital. ten of these cases were atl. the prevalence of htlv-i-related lymphoma in this sample was 15%. since tissue from all patients was not available for htlv-i screening, however, it is possible that other cases of atl went undetected. we conclude from this initial survey that a retroviral etiology should be considered in patients from populations known to be at risk for htlv-i infection who present with non-hodgkin's lymphoma.
coronary arteries in truncus arteriosus. the origin and distribution of the coronary arteries was described in 39 autopsy specimens of truncus arteriosus (ta). the specimens were classified according to the number and the patterns of the truncal cusps. the position of the truncal cusps was defined in relation to intracardiac structures, namely, the atrioventricular orifices. bicuspid truncal valves were observed in 8 cases (21%), tricuspid in 22 cases (56%) and quadricuspid in 9 cases (23%). all tricuspid valves had 2 anterior and 1 posterior cusp. great variability in the origin of the coronary arteries was observed, with a tendency for the right coronary artery to arise from the anterior right quadrant and for the left coronary artery to arise from the anterior and left quadrant. such a tendency was observed in 50% of the bicuspid, in 59% of the tricuspid and in 66% of the quadricuspid valves. the anatomic right ventricle was always observed to be vascularized by a right coronary artery, and the anatomic left ventricle by a left coronary artery, even in cases in which there was a single coronary trunk. the anterior surface of the right ventricle was crossed by a right coronary artery in 5 cases. a single coronary artery was observed in 7 cases (18%). embryologic considerations are offered, especially regarding the relation between the observed variability in coronary artery patterns in ta and the absence of the truncal septation.
transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis after m-vac (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) chemotherapy. the m-vac (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. we report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with m-vac. review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique, and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with m-vac may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases. carcinomatous meningitis, although rare, is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated. however, prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status. we review the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis.
low-molecular-weight heparinoid compared with warfarin for prophylaxis of deep-vein thrombosis in patients who are operated on for fracture of the hip. a prospective, randomized trial. in a randomized, prospective trial, a low-molecular-weight heparinoid (org 10172 [lomoparan]) was compared with warfarin for efficacy and safety in preventing deep-vein thrombosis in 263 patients who had an operatively treated fracture of the hip. one group of patients received org 10172 in a dose of 750 units subcutaneously every twelve hours until the ninth postoperative day; on the seventh postoperative day, warfarin was added to the regimen. the other group received only warfarin. both drugs were begun preoperatively, immediately after the admission evaluation. in the patients who received warfarin, the desired prothrombin time was one and one-half times the control level. deep-vein thrombosis was detected by 125i-fibrinogen scanning and impedance plethysmography and was confirmed by phlebography and compression ultrasonography. deep-vein thrombosis was found in nine (7 per cent) of the 132 patients who received org 10172 and in twenty-eight (21 per cent) of the 131 patients who received warfarin (p less than 0.001). adverse reactions were not significantly different in the two groups. major bleeding complications occurred in eight patients in the org-10172 group, only four of whom were receiving the drug at the time of bleeding, and in five patients who were receiving warfarin (not significant). there was no difference in intraoperative loss of blood or in requirements for transfusion. we concluded that the low-molecular-weight heparinoid org 10172 is a safe, convenient, effective antithrombotic agent for the prevention of venous thrombosis after an operation for fracture of the hip.
the nursing role in limb salvage surgery. limb salvage surgery has proven itself as a valuable option for sarcoma patients. the reconstruction options are vast and include metallic implants, allografts, and a combination of both. the nursing implications for these patients are unlimited. the patient needs to be educated and assessed closely for complications such as infections, nonunion of the allograft, and limited mobility. although the nursing care is more complicated, the rewards with working with these patients are great.
long term effects of gastrocystoplasty in rats. twenty prepubescent rats underwent microsurgical gastrocystoplasty by a technique which is described. an equal number of control rats had their bladders opened and closed. rats were sacrificed at 16 to 18 months postoperatively. there were no differences in final weight, serum electrolytes, or renal function between the two groups. prominent histopathologic changes of the bladder occurred in the gastrocystoplasty group. these changes included papillomas present in five of the 15 rats surviving long term. no significant changes occurred in the bladders of the control group of rats. possible etiologies and the significance of the rats. possible etiologies and the significance of the gastrocystoplasty related lesions are discussed.
photodynamic therapy of spontaneous cancers in felines, canines, and snakes with chloro-aluminum sulfonated phthalocyanine. this is the first report on the photodynamic treatment with a second-generation sensitizer, chloro-aluminum sulfonated phthalocyanine (caspc) of spontaneously arising tumors and on the photodynamic therapy (pdt) of snake neoplasms. each of 10 cats, 2 dogs, and 3 snakes presenting with a variety of tumor types (squamous cell carcinoma, mast cell malignant tumor, and mixed carcinoma/sarcoma) was given an intravenous injection of 1 mg of caspc per kilogram body weight 48 hours prior to irradiation with 675-nm light. some larger tumors (greater than 1.5 cm deep) were surgically debulked prior to pdt. no significant systemic toxicity or skin photosensitization was observed in any animal. the tumor responses were comparable to those seen with conventional cryotherapy, hyperthermia, or surgery. pdt with caspc of these cases led to 67% (12 of 18) complete response, 22% (4 of 18) partial response, and 11% (2 of 18) no response (less than 50% reduction in tumor size). four cases could not be evaluated. since the overall tumor response to caspc is very good, and the problem of skin photosensitivity is nonexistent, it is expected that using caspc-pdt to eradicate human tumors would also yield comparable results. further studies with long-term follow-up are necessary to optimize the use of caspc-pdt in veterinary and human medicine.
colobronchial fistula: a rare complication of crohn's colitis. a 29-yr-old white woman presented with chronic pneumonia in the left lower lobe and with left pleural effusion. she was known to have inflammatory bowel disease, but she was asymptomatic under maintenance treatment with 5-asa. she received numerous antibiotic regimens according to susceptibility testing of microorganisms cultured from sputum and bronchial lavage and on an empiric basis was also given antituberculosis treatment, but there was no clinical improvement or change in the chest radiographic findings. sputum was repeatedly examined and yielded, among other organisms, clostridium inocuum, enterobacter, klebsiella pneumoniae, proteus mirabilis, and staphylococcus aureus. on one microscopic examination of sputum, the presence of feculent material was suspected. a subsequent gastrografin enema revealed a cologastric and colobronchial fistula between the splenic flexture of the colon and the greater curve of the stomach and the bronchial system. segmental resection of the colon and resection of the lower lobe of the left lung were performed. histologic findings of the resected colon were consistent with crohn's disease. after a long period of postoperative recovery, the patient returned to good general health and well-being. to our knowledge, a colobronchial fistula caused by crohn's colitis has not been previously reported.
magnetic resonance imaging in mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome. six girls with suspected rokitansky syndrome underwent magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and then sonography and laparoscopy to confirm the clinical diagnosis and define the precise characteristics of the malformation. the uterus was missing in all; four had mullerian rudiments in place of the uterus, which were cavitary in two as shown by sonography and in one by mri. both ovaries were present in all cases, normally located in four and extrapelvic in two; they were correctly identified by mri in all cases and by sonography in four. partially canalized vaginal rudiments were recognized by mri in two girls and by sonography in one. one patient had unilateral renal agenesis, demonstrated by both mri and sonography. magnetic resonance imaging was more precise than laparoscopy and sonography in defining the anatomical characteristics of rokitansky syndrome, and is less invasive and expensive than laparoscopy.
bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis as interim palliation for high-risk fontan candidates. early results. thirty-eight patients considered to be at increased risk for a fontan repair underwent bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis. twenty-one of the 38 had concurrent pulmonary artery reconstruction. fontan risk factors included pulmonary artery distortion, elevated pulmonary artery resistance (greater than 2 woods units) and/or pulmonary artery pressure (mean, greater than 18 mm hg), atrioventricular valve regurgitation, systemic ventricular dysfunction, complex venous anatomy, and subaortic obstruction. there were no deaths, either early or late. median arterial oxygen saturation increased from 79% to 84% (p less than 0.01). median hospital stay was 8 days. no patient had pleural effusions after 7 days. three patients had significant surgical complications. five patients had inadequate relief of cyanosis; three of these had venous collaterals and two had severe ventricular dysfunction; the latter two patients subsequently had strokes. one of the patients with persistent cyanosis required a systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt. we conclude that a bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt, with pulmonary artery reconstruction when indicated, provides adequate relief of cyanosis in most patients with single-ventricle lesions who are considered to be at increased risk for a fontan repair. relief of ventricular volume overload and pulmonary artery distortion may improve fontan candidacy. also, patients with persistent cyanosis after bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis should be catheterized for location and occlusion of venous collaterals. further follow-up is necessary to determine the place of bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis in the management of patients at increased risk for a fontan repair.
hyperdynamic circulation in cirrhosis: a role for nitric oxide? hypotension, low systemic vascular resistance, and a reduced sensitivity to vasoconstrictors are features of cirrhosis. these cardiovascular changes might be the result of increased synthesis of a vasodilator. nitric oxide (no), a potent vasodilator, is synthesised in and released from peripheral blood-vessels in man. studies in animals indicate that bacterial endotoxin and cytokines induce no synthase expression in vessel walls, with sustained no release and consequent hypotension. endotoxaemia is a common feature of cirrhosis; persistent induction of no synthase may account for the associated haemodynamic changes.
inhibition of growth of experimental prostate cancer with sustained delivery systems (microcapsules and microgranules) of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone antagonist sb-75. inhibitory effects of the sustained delivery systems (microcapsules and microgranules) of a potent antagonist of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone n-ac-[3-(2-naphthyl)-d-alanine1, 4-chloro-d-phenylalanine2, 3-(3-pyridyl)-d-alanine3, d-citrulline6, d-alanine10]lh-rh (sb-75) on the growth of experimental prostate cancers were investigated. in the first experiment, three doses of a microcapsule preparation releasing 23.8, 47.6, and 71.4 micrograms of antagonist sb-75 per day were compared with microcapsules of agonist [d-trp6]lh-rh liberating 25 micrograms/day in rats bearing dunning r3327h transplantable prostate carcinoma. during 8 weeks of treatment, tumor growth was decreased by [d-trp6]lh-rh and all three doses of sb-75 as compared to untreated controls. the highest dose of sb-75 (71.4 micrograms/day) caused a greater inhibition of prostate cancer growth than [d-trp6]lh-rh as based on measurement of tumor volume and percentage change in tumor volume. doses of 23.8 and 47.6 micrograms of sb-75 per day induced a partial and submaximal decrease, respectively, in tumor weight and volume. tumor doubling time was the longest (50 days) with the high dose of sb-75 vs. 15 days for controls. the body weights were unchanged. the weights of testes, seminal vesicles, and ventral prostate were greatly reduced in all three groups that received sb-75, and testosterone levels were decreased to nondetectable values in the case of the two higher doses of sb-75. lh levels were also diminished. similar results were obtained in the second experiment, in which the animals were treated for a period of 8 weeks with microgranules of sb-75. therapy with microgranules of sb-75 significantly decreased tumor growth as measured by the final tumor volume, the percentage change from the initial tumor volume, and the reduction in tumor weight. the results indicate that antagonist sb-75, released from sustained delivery systems, can produce a state of chemical castration and effectively inhibit the growth of experimental prostate cancers. the efficacy of the antagonist sb-75 in inhibiting androgen-dependent dunning prostatic carcinoma and the absence of side effects suggest its possible usefulness for the treatment of hormone-sensitive tumors.
health effects of radon exposure. report of the council on scientific affairs, american medical association. the consensus of scientists is that exposure to radon is hazardous, but disagreement exists about the effects of lower radon concentrations. studies of underground miners have indicated that the risk of lung cancer increases in proportion to the intensity and duration of exposure to radon, and a recent authoritative report (beir iv) has concluded that estimates based on those studies are appropriate for estimating risks for occupants of homes. the beir iv report concluded that smoking cigarettes increases the risk of lung cancer associated with radon. average radon levels in us homes range from 0.055 to 0.148 bq/l (1.5 to 4 pci/l), depending on the circumstances of measurement. few studies have investigated health outcomes in occupants of homes with high radon levels. in advising patients about reducing the risks associated with radon, physicians should consider the costs, as well as the benefits, of remedial actions, and they should emphasize that, by far, the best way to avoid lung cancer is to stop smoking.
cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia. in a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia, related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 (22%). in 27 cases (10%) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. hematomas, ecchymoses, petechiae, or purpura occurred in 24 (41%) of the 58 patients. fifteen patients (26%) had erythromelalgia, in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint. livedo reticularis, recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis, ischemic complications with gangrene, leg ulcers, or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations. urticaria occurred in two patients, and raynaud's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient. platelet function may be abnormal, and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied, 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation. knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection. prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events.
pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults. twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis. thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment. all patients underwent spinal decompression; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts. all patients have recovered and are ambulatory, and no patient's disorder was made worse by surgery. twenty-three separate organisms were cultured, only five of which were staphylococcus. the antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion. all anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly, and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts, regardless of organisms or level. the rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination. pain relief, stabilization, and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion. autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis.
effect of emitted power on waveform intensity in transcranial doppler this study assesses the problem of transcranial doppler recording failure and seeks to determine the extent to which this can be ameliorated by increased emitted power. we hypothesized that waveform intensity is directly related to the rate and quality of successful recording and may be compared quantitatively among groups of patients. among a large group of patients recorded at 800 mw/cm2 emitted power, intensity was strongest in white men, weakest in black women, and intermediate in black men and white women. it declined with age in women of either race, but not in men of either race. analysis of the effect of emitted power on intensity predicted that significant numbers of waveforms recorded at 800 mw/cm2 could not be recorded at the current clinical standards of 100 mw/cm2, the difference being most pronounced in elderly black women. temporal bone window thickness measured in a series of adult cadaver skulls was least in white men, greatest in black women, and intermediate in black men and white women. the findings of this study support the hypothesis that temporal bone window thickness is an important determinant of recording difficulty and suggest that increased emitted power can significantly increase successful recording, particularly in black and elderly patients. increased power alone, however, cannot completely solve the recording problem within safe limits.
daptomycin compared with teicoplanin and vancomycin for therapy of experimental staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. the efficacies of daptomycin, teicoplanin, and vancomycin were compared in the therapy of experimental staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. rabbits infected with either of two methicillin-susceptible strains (sa-12871 or its moderately teicoplanin-resistant derivative sa-12873) or a methicillin-resistant s. aureus strain (mrsa-494) were treated with daptomycin, 8 mg/kg of body weight, every 8 h; teicoplanin, 12.5 mg/kg (low-dose teicoplanin [teicoplanin-ld], excluding mrsa-494) or 40 mg/kg (high-dose teicoplanin [teicoplanin-hd]) every 12 h; or vancomycin, 17.5 mg/kg every 6 h, for 4 days. compared with no treatment daptomycin, teicoplamin-hd, and vancomycin significantly reduced bacterial counts of all test strains in vegetations and renal and splenic tissues (p less than 0.001). teicoplanin-ld was equally effective against sa-12871 but failed against sa-12873, with three of six animals still being bacteremic at the end of therapy. for sa-12871, daptomycin was as effective as teicoplanin-hd and was superior to teicoplanin-ld and vancomycin (p = 0.02) in lowering vegetation bacterial counts. there were no differences between daptomycin, teicoplanin-hd, or vancomycin in the reduction of bacterial counts in tissues for any of the test strains. in rabbits infected with sa-12871, vegetations from 33% of teicoplanin-ld-treated, 6% of teicoplanin-hd-treated, and 13% of daptomycin-treated animals yielded organisms for which there were up to eightfold increases in the mics. resistance may have contributed to early death in one daptomycin-treated animal. no increases in the mics for the test strain were detected in animals infected with sa-12873 or mrsa-494.
meningiomas involving the clivus: a six-year experience with 41 patients. a series of 41 meningiomas involving the clivus operated on from july 1983 to january 1990 is reported. the presenting symptoms and signs of these patients were similar to those reported previously. all the patients were evaluated by pre- and postoperative thin-section, high-resolution computed tomography using soft tissue and bone algorithms. most of the patients also underwent magnetic resonance imaging. the regions of the clivus involved by tumor were divided into upper, middle, or lower regions on the basis of anatomical landmarks. the diameter of the tumor was measured in three axes, and a tumor volume and a tumor equivalent diameter were computed to categorize tumors as small, medium, large, or giant types. there were 9 medium, 27 large, and 5 giant tumors in this series. some simple and some complex operative approaches were employed to effect tumor removal. large and giant tumors often required more than one operative approach to remove the tumor. intraoperative technical difficulties included tumor consistency, vascularity, dissection from the brain stem, and vascular and cranial nerve encasement. postoperative computed tomographic scans documented total excision in 32 patients (78%). residual tumor remained in the clival or cavernous sinus areas. these patients were either being observed, or were treated with gamma knife radiosurgery. there was one operative death due to pneumonia (2%), and three patients (7%) suffered permanent major neurological changes, presumably due to vascular occlusions in the posterior circulation. in the follow-up period, which ranged from 3 to 76 months, 2 patients (6%) with tumors that had appeared to be totally excised experienced recurrence. these patients were treated by a second operation, alone or in combination with radiation therapy. two patients who had subtotal excisions (25%) had evidence of regrowth. in 2 patients, tumor growth continued despite gamma knife radiosurgery or external beam radiotherapy.
high-dose cisplatin plus dacarbazine in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. the combination of cisplatin plus dacarbazine (dtic) is active in metastatic melanoma with response rates reported between 10% and 55%. to optimize this regimen, a phase ii study was conducted employing a dose intensity of cisplatin higher than previously reported. twenty-two patients were treated. eight patients received cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 combined with dtic 300 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, 8 and 9 (regimen a). because of excessive toxicity, the protocol was modified so that cisplatin was given at 50 mg/m2 per day and dtic 350 mg/m2 per day on days 1 through 3 (regimen b). the overall response rate was 32% and consisted of four partial and three complete responses (cr). the median duration of response was 6 months. two of the cr remain in sustained, unmaintained remission in excess of 1.5 years. all seven patients that responded were treated on regimen b. high-dose cisplatin plus dtic on a 3-day schedule represents an effective, well-tolerated therapy for metastatic melanoma.
multipiece tire rim injuries. multipiece tire rims can explode during tire change, causing severe injury. although more than 450 such accidents, with at least 80 deaths, have been recorded by the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa), we found no reports in the surgical literature on such injuries in the united states. this report describes experience with seven patients who sustained injuries in explosions of multipiece tire rims. all victims suffered massive maxillofacial trauma with associated ocular, cranial, intracranial, and extremity injuries. two patients died, both because of intracerebral hemorrhage. one patient suffered serious long-term disability. all survivors required extensive reconstructive surgery. the design of the multipiece tire rim is inherently hazardous. since many accidents of this type are not reported to the nhtsa, the incidence of such injuries may be significantly higher. an alternative, nonhazardous tire rim is available. design modifications or a law restricting use of multipiece tire rims would prevent many accidents.
a dentist's dilemma: nonsurgical endodontic therapy or periapical surgery for teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion. first presented is a brief review of nonsurgical versus surgical treatment of radicular cysts. this is followed by a consideration of the use of radiographs for differential diagnosis of periapical radiolucent lesions. some of the nonendodontic local and systemic lesions that can occur periapically are then presented. next examined are the fallibilities of pulp vitality testing methods. the need for histopathologic examination of periapical lesions is the subject of the next discussion. the dentist's dilemma is then examined: should teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion have routine surgical treatment including biopsy or should they be treated nonsurgically and have periodic follow-ups? a possible resolution of this dilemma is the final consideration.
a 27-year experience with splenectomy for gaucher's disease. gaucher's disease is an inherited metabolic disorder caused by the defective activity of acid beta-glucosidase and the resultant accumulation of glucosyl ceramide-laden macrophages in the liver, bone, and spleen. splenectomy is the preferred treatment for patients with gaucher's disease who develop massive splenomegaly with accompanying hypersplenism and/or mechanical pressure symptoms. the charts of 48 patients with gaucher's disease undergoing splenectomy at our institution between january 1963 and december 1989 were analyzed to determine the short- and long-term results of this procedure. thirty-five (73%) patients had total splenectomy, whereas 13 (27%) patients had partial splenectomy. there was one postoperative death (after total splenectomy), and 13 patients (27%) had postoperative complications. eleven patients (23%) presented with accelerated bone disease after total splenectomy (mean follow-up: 96 months). no patients having partial splenectomy (mean follow-up: 25 months) developed progressive bone disease. eight patients have died since surgery. all four deaths due to malignant disease occurred in patients after total splenectomy. the results of this largest-ever reported series of splenectomy for gaucher's disease confirm that while either total or partial splenectomy can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality, total splenectomy is accompanied by more aggressive bone disease and a predisposition to malignancy. prospective, randomized trials are needed to substantiate whether partial splenectomy is indeed the treatment of choice for splenomegaly associated with gaucher's disease.
late cardiac effects of doxorubicin therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood background. cardiotoxicity is a recognized complication of doxorubicin therapy, but the long-term effects of doxorubicin are not well documented. we therefore assessed the cardiac status of 115 children who had been treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia with doxorubicin 1 to 15 years earlier in whom the disease was in continuous remission. methods. eighteen patients received one dose of doxorubicin (45 mg per square meter of body-surface area), and 97 received multiple doses totaling 228 to 550 mg per square meter (median, 360). the median interval between the end of treatment and the cardiac evaluation was 6.4 years. our evaluation consisted of a history, 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recording, exercise testing, and echocardiography. results. fifty-seven percent of the patients had abnormalities of left ventricular afterload (measured as end-systolic wall stress) or contractility (measured as the stress-velocity index). the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was the most significant predictor of abnormal cardiac function (p less than 0.002). seventeen percent of patients who received one dose of doxorubicin had slightly elevated age-adjusted afterload, and none had decreased contractility. in contrast, 65 percent of patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter had increased afterload (59 percent of patients), decreased contractility (23 percent), or both. increased afterload was due to reduced ventricular wall thickness, not to hypertension or ventricular dilatation. in multivariate analyses restricted to patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter, the only significant predictive factors were a higher cumulative dose (p = 0.01), which predicted decreased contractility, and an age of less than four years at treatment (p = 0.003), which predicted increased afterload. afterload increased progressively in 24 of 34 patients evaluated serially (71 percent). reported symptoms correlated poorly with indexes of exercise tolerance or ventricular function. eleven patients had congestive heart failure within one year of treatment with doxorubicin; five of them had recurrent heart failure 3.7 to 10.3 years after completing doxorubicin treatment, and two required heart transplantation. no patient had late heart failure as a new event. conclusions. doxorubicin therapy in childhood impairs myocardial growth in a dose-related fashion and results in a progressive increase in left ventricular afterload sometimes accompanied by reduced contractility. we hypothesize that the loss of myocytes during doxorubicin therapy in childhood might result in inadequate left ventricular mass and clinically important heart disease in later years.
intraoperative pleural lavage cytology in lung cancer patients. cytology of intraoperative pleural lavage was examined in 164 lung cancer patients who underwent pulmonary resections. none of the patients had any pleural effusion or dissemination. cytology was performed three times: (1) at thoracotomy, (2) immediately after resection, and (3) after washing the pleural cavity with 5,000 ml of physiological saline solution just before closure of the chest wall. twenty-three patients (14%) had more than one positive cytological finding. the frequency of positive cytological findings was significantly correlated with pathological t classification, pleural status, and pathological stage. the positive lavage group had a significantly higher recurrence rate than the negative lavage group in patients with stage i or stage ii cancer. four patients in the positive lavage group (17.4%) had recurrence in pleura or pericardium whereas only 1 patient in the negative lavage group (0.7%) had a recurrence in pericardium. the positive cytological finding of pleural lavage has more important meaning as a prognostic factor in stage i and stage ii and indicates a greater possibility of recurrence in pleura or pericardium, but further examinations to evaluate the viability of detected malignant cells are required so that the positive cytological findings of pleural lavage can be regarded as subclinical pleural dissemination.
specific supersensitivity of the mesenteric vascular bed of dahl salt-sensitive rats. dahl salt-sensitive (ds) and salt-resistant (dr) rats were maintained on a diet containing normal (0.45%) or high (7%) salt for 5 days. the ds rats had slightly higher systolic blood pressures than dr rats, although a high salt diet failed to significantly elevate pressure in either group when compared with their appropriate (low salt diet) controls. the sensitivity of the isolated, perfused mesenteric vasculature from ds rats fed a high salt diet to nerve stimulation was greater when compared with all other groups in the presence or absence of cocaine (1 microm). a similar difference in sensitivity between high salt ds rats and high salt dr rats to bolus injections of norepinephrine was observed only in the presence of cocaine. the change in sensitivity was characterized by a leftward shift of the dose-response curve without a change in maximum response. no difference in sensitivity between the high salt ds group and any other treatment group was observed in response to the pressor agents kcl, angiotensin ii, 5-hydroxytryptamine or the depressor agent acetylcholine. these data indicate that ds rats on a short-term, high salt diet possess a significant and specific elevation in sensitivity to nerve stimulation and norepinephrine in the absence of an increase in blood pressure. differences in the effectiveness of cocaine among the groups suggest that differences may exist in neuronal uptake (uptake 1).
congenital biliary tract disease. jaundice in the pediatric patient requires prompt and directed evaluation. this dictum is highlighted in infants with biliary atresia, in whom the progressive sclerosing process results in complete obliteration of patent but microscopic hilar biliary structures by 4 months of age. kasai's operation, if done before that time, will re-establish bile drainage in 90% of infants. one fourth to one third of patients achieve long-term jaundice-free survival. complications of cholangitis, portal hypertension, and fat malabsorption are experienced by many patients. in children with early or late operative failure, liver replacement now offers legitimate hope for extended survival. choledochal cyst is a conglomerate of pancreaticobiliary anomalies consisting of a choledochal cyst, a common-channel-type pancreaticobiliary junction, intrahepatic cystic disease, and partial obstruction of the distal common bile duct. many patients have one or more of these malformations. it is now widely accepted that the preferred treatment of choledochal cyst is total excision of the diseased biliary duct with reconstruction by roux-en-y choledochojejunostomy. "internal" excision avoids injury to other structures in the hepatoduodenal ligament, particularly if pericystic inflammation is present. congenital perforation of the common bile duct responds in most cases to simple peritoneal drainage of the perforation. retention of the tube cholecystostomy is useful for subsequent cholangiographic follow-up. tube cholecystostomy may also be useful for irrigation of the biliary tract in infants with inspissated bile syndrome.
the prognostic value of residual spikes in the postexcision electrocorticogram after temporal lobectomy. we correlated the postresection electrocorticograms (ecogs) of 80 patients who underwent temporal lobectomy under general anesthesia for treatment of intractable complex partial seizures with surgical results in three groups: seizure/aura free (32 patients), auras only (16 patients), and one or more postoperative seizures (32 patients) at mean follow-up times of 34, 31, and 38 months, respectively. spontaneous "residual spikes," ie, present after all resections, were present in 47% of patients who had no postoperative seizures or auras. however, they occurred in 72% of patients with any postoperative seizures (p less than 0.05). the location (convexity, mesial, or edge of resections) or the distribution (unifocal versus multifocal) of the residual spikes was not of prognostic value. quantitative studies in 5-minute epochs of the postexcision ecogs did not reveal a significant difference in the morphology of the residual spikes, ie, the amplitude or firing pattern (single versus polyspike), in the three groups. the group with postoperative seizures showed a higher number of spikes per epoch (greater than or equal to 50), but it was not significant. although the study shows that patients with residual spikes may have good prognosis, they are at significantly higher risk for postoperative seizures as compared with those without residual spikes. the possibility that intensity of firing of residual spikes may be an additional predictor of outcome warrants further study.
positron emission tomography and interventional cardiology. current noninvasive diagnostic techniques have limited accuracy for detection of coronary artery disease (cad) in symptomatic and (particularly) asymptomatic patients with silent disease. furthermore, no standard noninvasive method provides reliable diagnostic information on the location of the coronary arteries involved, the severity of stenosis, the presence of collaterals and myocardial viability. based on greater than 1,000 cardiac studies at the university of texas, cardiac positron emission tomography (pet) with either generator-produced rubidium-82, cyclotron-produced n-13 ammonia, or f-18 deoxyglucose is suitable for 4 routine diagnostic purposes: (1) noninvasive diagnosis of cad in either symptomatic or asymptomatic subjects with a sensitivity of 95 to 98% and specificity of 95 to 100%. this accuracy is now sufficient to schedule diagnostic catheterization and multivessel angioplasty with surgical backup on the basis of the pet scan. at the university of texas we carry out pet in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients to direct those with mild disease to cholesterol-lowering reversal therapy and those with severe disease to percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca); (2) assessment of physiologic severity of coronary artery stenosis as compared to automated quantitative coronary arteriographic analysis. changes in stenosis severity are followed before and after interventions including ptca, bypass surgery, vasodilator drugs and cholesterol control regimens for reversal of coronary atherosclerosis; (3) imaging myocardial infarction, ischemia, viability, zone at risk and sizing of these pathophysiologic processes.
reciprocal inhibition between forearm muscles in spastic hemiplegia. we studied reciprocal inhibition of h-reflexes in the forearm flexor and extensor muscles in 14 patients with spastic hemiplegia secondary to a focal cerebral lesion and 14 normal volunteers. in the spastic limb, the hmax/mmax ratio was increased in both flexor and particularly extensor wrist muscles. the 3 normal inhibitory phases of reciprocal inhibition between extensor and flexor forearm muscles were markedly reduced on the spastic side of patients. the early disynaptic phase showed the greatest alteration. reduced or absent inhibition between forearm muscles associated with increased spinal motoneuron excitability may be typical to spastic hemiplegia.
the effect of glucose administration on carbohydrate metabolism after head injury. the role of intravenous infusion of glucose in limiting ketogenesis and the effect of glucose on cerebral metabolism following severe head injury were studied in 21 comatose patients. the patients were randomly assigned to alimentation with or without glucose. systemic protein wasting, arterial concentrations of energy substrates, and cerebral metabolism of these energy substrates were monitored for 5 days postinjury. both groups were in negative nitrogen balance, and had wasting of systemic proteins despite substantial protein intake. blood and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) glucose concentrations were highest on day 1, but remained higher than normal fasting levels on all days of study, even in the patients who received no exogenous glucose. although there were no differences in blood or csf glucose concentrations in the two groups of patients, the glucose group had higher plasma insulin levels, with a mean +/- standard deviation of 14.8 +/- 7.3 microu/ml compared to 10.3 +/- 4.2 microu/ml in the saline group. the blood concentrations of beta-hydroxybutyrate, acetoacetate, pyruvate, glycerol, and the free fatty acids were higher in the saline group than in the glucose group. cerebral oxygen consumption was similar in the two groups, while the cerebral metabolism of glucose and of the ketone bodies was dependent on whether glucose was administered. in the glucose group, glucose was the only energy substrate utilized by the brain. in the saline group, the ketone bodies beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate replaced glucose to the extent of 16% of the brain's total energy production. cerebral lactate production and csf lactate concentration were lower in the saline group. these studies suggest that administration of glucose during the early recovery period of severe head injury is a major cause of suppressed ketogenesis, and may increase production of lactic acid by the traumatized brain by limiting the availability of nonglycolytic energy substrates.
vaginal epithelial abnormalities in patients with cin: clinical and pathological features and management. of 4147 women who had cin treated by laser at the regional gynaecological oncology centre, queen elizabeth hospital, gateshead, 103 (2.5%) had co-existing vaginal epithelial abnormalities. cin 3 was the histological diagnosis most often associated with vaginal lesions. the upper vagina was almost always involved. in 67% the lesion in the cervix appeared to be confluent with that in the vagina. even when the lesions were confluent, biopsies form the cervical and vaginal components did not always show the same grade of intraepithelial neoplasia and in some biopsies they showed different lesions. laser treatment appears to be effective for the vaginal lesions and is therefore recommended although, in selected patients, careful follow up alone may suffice.
autologous bone marrow transplantation in multiple myeloma: identification of prognostic factors. multiple myeloma remains a universally fatal malignancy with a median survival time not exceeding 3 years. a clinical trial was undertaken to determine feasibility and efficacy of marrow-ablative chemoradiotherapy supported by unpurged autologous bone marrow (abmt) and to define prognostic variables. total body irradiation and either melphalan or thiotepa were administered to 55 patients (median age 53 years; range 20 to 66 years). the group of 21 patients with resistance to standard melphalan-prednisone and to continuous infusions of vincristine and adriamycin with high dose dexamethasone (vad) included 7 with primary unresponsive disease and 14 with resistant relapse; among the 34 patients achieving remission with the vad regimen, 14 were in first and 20 in a subsequent remission. marked cytoreduction by greater than or equal to 75% was observed among all 21 patients with refractory myeloma, whereas further cytoreduction of this magnitude was noted in only 56% of the 34 patients already in remission after vad. five of the 6 early deaths among all 55 patients occurred in the 14 patients with resistant relapse, none of whom achieved complete remission and who, as a group, had median durations of relapse-free and overall survival of only 8 and 7 months, respectively. among the 41 remaining patients, there was only one early death, and 27% achieved complete remission including a 36% incidence among the 14 patients treated in first remission; their projected 4-year survival rate was 82% regardless of their disease status (first or later remission or primary resistance). when information about sensitivity to prior therapy is unavailable, the presence before abmt of both high beta-2-microglobulin levels (greater than 3 mg/l) and non-igg isotype helped identify 9 among the 55 patients with a very poor prognosis: all 8 responders relapsed within 9 months, and 8 patients died within 15 months. by contrast, a 4-year projected survival rate of over 70% for the other patients (about 80% of this series) justifies further investigation of this novel treatment approach in comparison with standard dose regimens. our results indicate that marrow-ablative therapy cannot be recommended for myeloma patients with resistant relapse or those with a combination of risk factors (advanced tumor burden, absence of igg isotype). the apparent lack of an adverse effect of even marked plasmacytosis in autografts (up to 30%) emphasizes the need for better cytoreduction rather than bone marrow purging.
therapeutic outcome of patients suffering from malignant melanomas of the conjunctiva. eighty-one cases of conjunctival melanoma treated between 1960 and 1988 were studied to determine factors that might affect outcome in patients with such lesions. the therapeutic procedures performed were local excision (16), local excision followed by brachytherapy with sr-90/y-90 (32), local excision followed by cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen (16), brachytherapy with sr-90/y-90 (12), local excision followed by external beam irradiation (3), and local excision followed by brachytherapy and cryotherapy (2). the median follow-up period was 5.5 years (longest 26, shortest 1 year). sixty two patients (76.5%) showed a complete regression of the melanoma, 19 (23.5%) developed recurrences, and 15 (18.5%) died from metastases. the melanomas had developed with almost equal frequency from a pre-existing naevus (25.9%), from primary acquired melanosis (25.9%), and 'de novo' (30.9%). small tumours had a higher chance of regressing (80.6%) than larger ones (68.6%). the cumulative survival rate was 76% after five years and 60% after 10 years from any causes of death and 87.6% after five years and 76.3% after 10 years from deaths caused by metastases. most deaths from metastases occurred within 5 years. at 88.5%, the cumulative survival rate of patients with small tumours (less than one quadrant of the bulbar conjunctiva and less than 2 mm thickness) was significantly higher than that of patients with larger tumours (more than one quadrant of the bulbar conjunctiva and/or more than 2 mm thickness) with 65% after eight years. local excision followed by beta ray irradiation (sr-90/y-90) or cryotherapy can be recommended as the treatment of choice. nevertheless the behaviour of conjunctival melanomas remains unpredictable in individual cases.
expression of class i and ii human leukocyte antigens by thyrocytes and lymphocytic infiltration on human thyroid tumors. an immunofluorescence study. surgical thyroid sections from 30 papillary carcinomas (pc), six medullary carcinomas (mc), three anaplastic carcinomas (ac), two follicular carcinomas (fc), and 16 adenomas (ad) were examined with an indirect immunofluorescence technique employing different monoclonal antibodies to evaluate the expression of human leukocyte antigen (hla)-a, b, c (class i) and dr, dp, dq (class ii) by thyrocytes, together with the phenotype and distribution of inflammatory cells. ten pc and four fc were also investigated for the presence of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1). in situ deposits of immunocomplexes and circulating thyroid autoantibodies were also evaluated. an increased expression of class i antigens was found in all pc and fc, in 33% of mc and ac, and in 31% of ad. an anomalous expression of class ii antigens was observed in 70% of pc, in 50% of fc, in 33% of ac, in 19% of ad, and in none of the mc. expression of dp or dq was revealed only in a portion of the dr-positive glands. a reduction of microsomal autoantigen expression was found. no icam-1-positive thyrocytes were detected. a moderate t-lymphocytic infiltrate was noticed only in pc, where it was correlated with dr and dp and/or dq coexpression. b-cells and natural killer cells were virtually absent. the authors speculate that the weak class ii antigens expression, together with the partial or complete loss in microsomal autoantigen and the absence of icam-1 by thyrocytes, may account for the limited engagement of immunocompetent cells observed in thyroid tumors.
continuous extracorporeal fluid removal in children with low cardiac output after cardiac operations. eleven hypervolemic and oliguric children with low cardiac output after cardiac operations were treated by slow continuous ultrafiltration or continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration. a mean negative fluid balance of 1.63 +/- 0.37 ml/kg/hr (standard error of the mean [sem]) significantly improved the hemodynamic status within 59 +/- 6.1 hours (sem). although the central venous pressure decreased significantly from 15.2 +/- 0.84 to 8.8 +/- 0.92 mm hg (p less than 0.0001), the mean arterial pressure increased significantly from 41.5 +/- 2.54 to 53.5 +/- 2.21 mm hg (p less than 0.001). in addition, ph increased significantly from 7.31 +/- 0.01 (sem) to 7.43 +/- 0.001 (sem) (p less than 0.001) and oxygenation index (arterial oxygen tension/inspired oxygen fraction) from 119 +/- 15.2 (sem) to 214 +/- 27.0 (sem) (p less than 0.001). hemodynamic improvement during slow continuous extracorporeal fluid removal allowed a significant decrease of the catecholamine infusion rate. after normovolemia had been achieved, continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration had to be continued in four children because of persistent anuria. eight patients could be weaned from artificial ventilation and vasopressor support. two patients died without recovery of renal function and one with restored renal function. slow continuous ultrafiltration and continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration improve the cardiovascular function in children with low cardiac output by optimizing the preload conditions of the failing heart. in addition, they improve acid-base balance and pulmonary gas exchange.
stress and hypertension in susceptible persons emotional stress results in immediate sympathetic stimulation, with a vasomotor response that results in a high-output state and elevated blood pressure; the vasopressor response seems to be transient. there seems to be no longitudinal epidemiologic validation of the attractive hypothesis that transiently elevated blood pressures are the prelude to fixed hypertension, however. the acquisition of hypertension by populations abandoning their traditional mode of living has been attributed to the sociocultural stress inherent in westernization, but these studies usually have not taken into account concomitants of this type of acculturation, such as dietary changes and increased body weight. the inverse relationship of blood pressure levels to education could explain the development of hypertension when aspiration to upward mobility is thwarted. the severity of perceived occupational stress relates inversely to blood pressure, suggesting that familiarity with a job renders the demands made by the work environment more predictable and less threatening in terms of vasopressor response.
corpus callosotomy for intractable seizures in the pediatric age group. the results of corpus callosotomy in 18 patients 16 years old and younger are presented. eighty-three percent of our patients have had a significant improvement from the surgery (a decrease in seizure frequency of greater than 80% or no longer having generalized atonic, tonic, or tonic-clonic seizures). the procedure seems to be well tolerated in young patients, and we have not noted a postoperative deterioration in behavior, memory, or language function in our patients. one of our patients died in status epilepticus 3 months after surgery. nevertheless, we have not encountered any serious morbidity in our other patients. corpus callosotomy can be considered for children with intractable seizures, especially when generalized atonic, tonic, or tonic-clonic (whether primary or secondary) seizures are the major seizure type.
use of a computerized closed-loop sodium nitroprusside titration system for antihypertensive treatment after open heart surgery. this study evaluates the clinical applicability of administering sodium nitroprusside by a closed-loop titration system compared with a manually adjusted system. the mean arterial pressure (map) was registered every 10 and 30 sec during the first 150 min after open heart surgery in 20 patients (group 1: computer regulation) and in ten patients (group 2: manual regulation). the results (16,343 and 2,912 data points in groups 1 and 2, respectively), were then analyzed in four time frames and five pressure ranges to indicate clinical efficacy. sixty percent of the measured map in both groups was within the desired +/- 10% during the first 10 min. thereafter until the end of observation, the map was maintained within +/- 10% of the desired set-point 90% of the time in group 1 vs. 60% of the time in group 2. one percent and 11% of data points were +/- 20% from the set-point in groups 1 and 2, respectively (p less than .05, chi-square test). the computer-assisted therapy provided better control of map, was safe to use, and helped to reduce nursing demands.
in vivo evaluation of monopolar versus bipolar electrosurgical polypectomy snares. the energy required and tissue damage in bipolar and monopolar polypectomy snares were compared in a canine model. the bipolar snare required an average of 34 joules of energy, whereas the monopolar snare required 228 joules to cut the same diameter of gastric mucosa tended into a polypoid structure (p = 0.0005). the reduced energy delivered to the tissue from the bipolar procedure resulted in only 32% average depth of damage to the underlying gastric wall, whereas the monopolar procedure caused an average 69% (p = 0.001). surgically created polyps required 247 joules and 69 joules for corresponding monopolar and bipolar polypectomy (p = 0.001). the decreased energy required and the correspondingly reduced damage caused to the underlying bowel wall by the bipolar snare should reduce the incidence of perforation and post-polypectomy syndrome. the bipolar snare completes a local circuit about the snare, eliminating the return electrode and, consequently, the possibility of any return electrode burns. the bipolar snare thus provides an added safety margin during polypectomy.
the use of a tourniquet when plating tibial fractures. sixty closed fractures of the tibia were treated by open reduction and internal fixation with plates and screws. half the operations were performed with a thigh tourniquet and half without. in the tourniquet group, there were six cases with erythema and induration of the wound; in the other group there were no such complications. despite negative bacterial cultures, superficial infection of the inflamed wounds was suspected. it is suggested that a tourniquet may predispose tissues to infection, and its use is not recommended during operations for internal fixation of the tibia.
atrial activation sequence during atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model and its effects on the polarity of the flutter wave in the electrocardiogram. stable atrial flutter induced in both conscious and open chest states was studied in 30 mongrel dogs after production of sterile pericarditis. during the conscious state studies, induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 128 +/- 15 ms) was always sustained greater than 15 min and was stable. three types of flutter wave polarity were noted in electrocardiogram (ecg) lead ii: positive in 16 dogs, negative in 3 and flat or slightly positive in 11. sequential site atrial mapping during atrial flutter (mean cycle length 133 +/- 18 ms) in the open chest state showed either clockwise (18 dogs) or counterclockwise (12 dogs) circus movement in the right atrium. in 19 of 30 dogs, the circus movement clearly did not require any naturally existing anatomic obstacle; in 11, the orifice of the superior vena cava probably was also involved. double potentials were recorded from the center of the reentrant circuit during atrial flutter, and fractionated electrograms were recorded from a pivot point of the reentrant wave front. a positive flutter wave in ecg lead ii (12 dogs with counterclockwise circus movement) was associated with early activation of the bachmann's bundle region compared with the posteroinferior left atrium and activation of the left atrium mainly in a superoinferior direction. a negative flutter was associated with the early activation of the posteroinferior left atrium compared with bachmann's bundle and activation of a considerable portion of the left atrium in an inferosuperior direction. a flat or slightly positive flutter wave (14 of 18 with clockwise circus movement) was associated with activation of the left atrium almost simultaneously by two wave fronts coming from both these sites. in conclusion, atrial flutter in this dog model is due to circus movement in the right atrium, the center of which does not necessarily require an anatomic obstacle. although atrial flutter is generated by circus movement in the right atrium, the flutter wave polarity in the ecg is determined primarily by the activation sequence of the left atrium.
medulloblastoma: a population-based study of 532 cases. five hundred thirty-two cases of medulloblastoma (males n = 327 and females n = 205), aged 0 to 86 years diagnosed between 1973 and 1986 were studied to determine the incidence in different geographic regions of the united states and to evaluate the effect of various factors on survival. the median age was 9 years and average follow-up time was 45 months. the overall incidence rate was 1.8 per one million person-years. variables that were statistically significant (p less than 0.05) in a multivariate model determining survival in rank order were treatment group, sex, geographic region, year group and age. this observational study found that 1) age and sex were statistically significant factors in describing the incidence rates, whereas year group and geographic region were not; 2) no incidence peak in the third decade of life was observed; 3) a significant improvement in survival was observed in the combined 1978 to 1986 year groups relative to the 1973 to 1977 year group; 4) the overall 5-year survival probability was 45%; and 5) there has been an increase over time in the use of more than two modalities of treatment.
is emotional disturbance a precipitator or a consequence of chronic pain? the present study examined the relationship between psychological factors and pain in order to assess the contribution of emotional disturbance to the perpetuation of pain. a group of 163 chronic pain suffers in multiple settings was compared with 81 control subjects on measures of personal history antecedent to pain onset, as well as on measures of current emotional disturbance. in addition, these psychological variables were examined for their associations with subjectively rated pain intensity. overall, pain was found to be related to more current depression and less current life satisfaction, but was not associated with most of the personal history variables examined. these results suggests that emotional disturbance in pain patients is more likely to be a consequence than a cause of chronic pain. the dangers of routinely ascribing intractable pain to psychological causation are discussed in the light of these findings.
different effect of benzylacyclouridine on the toxic and therapeutic effects of azidothymidine in mice. it has been reported that in vitro uridine (urd) can reverse azidothymidine (azt) cytotoxicity without decreasing anti-human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) activity. our studies in mice have shown that daily oral doses of benzylacyclouridine (bau), an inhibitor of urd breakdown, also reduces azt hematologic toxicity, presumably by elevating the plasma concentration of urd. we now extend these murine studies and report the effect of various doses of exogenous urd, various doses of bau, or the combination of bau and urd, administered daily, on azt-induced toxicity. in mice receiving concomitant azt, daily doses of urd of 1,000 to 2,000 mg/kg increase peripheral reticulocytes and slightly reduce azt-induced hematologic toxicity. however, the range of effective doses is narrow, and higher doses of urd (greater than 3,000 mg/kg/d) significantly enhance hematologic toxicity. at its most effective dose, (2,000 mg/kg/d), urd produces 28% mortality. in contrast, bau doses up to 300 mg/kg/d reduced azt-related hematologic toxicity in a dose-dependent manner without mortality. higher daily doses of bau and the combination of bau with low doses of urd were not more effective. studies conducted in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus (rlv) indicate that bau does not impair the antiretroviral effect of azt when administered at doses that reduce azt-induced anemia and leukopenia. these findings may be significant for the treatment of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) and aids-related complex.
outcome probabilities and life history after surgical mitral commissurotomy: implications for balloon commissurotomy. from 1967 to 1988, 339 patients with mitral stenosis underwent surgical commissurotomy, 103 with a closed and 236 with an open technique. the 1 month and 1, 5, 10 and 20 year overall survival rate was 99.7%, 99%, 95%, 87% and 59%, respectively, and the technique (open versus closed) was not a risk factor. technique was also not a risk factor for a second mitral commissurotomy, subsequent mitral valve replacement, thromboembolism or poor functional status. risk factors were older age at commissurotomy, black race, higher pulmonary vascular resistance, mitral leaflet calcification, left ventricular enlargement and postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence. the closed technique was a risk factor for mitral incompetence immediately after commissurotomy, but important incompetence developed in only 2 of the 103 patients undergoing closed commissurotomy. mitral valve replacement was not required within 10 years in 78% of patients and within 20 years in 47%. despite some increased prevalence of postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence and particularly in view of the considerable long-term likelihood of mitral valve replacement, initial therapy for most patients with mitral stenosis should probably be surgical closed (or percutaneous balloon) mitral commissurotomy. the equations developed in the present study can be used to predict and compare outcome probability after percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with that after surgical commissurotomy and to compare these with outcome probability after mitral valve replacement.
management of gastroenteritis. childhood gastroenteritis remains a common reason for admission to british paediatric units, although the severity of the disease appears to be diminishing in recent years. we studied 215 infants and children with gastroenteritis admitted consecutively to four paediatric units in south wales in order to determine the severity of the disease, the organisms isolated, the frequency of complications, and the adequacy of management before admission. stool pathogens were isolated in 125 (58%) patients (viruses in 65, bacteria in 30, and protozoa in 19, with multiple infection found in 11). there was a low incidence of morbidity and complications, but prolonged diarrhoea (postenteritis syndrome) was present in 24 (11%) cases and 77 (36%) had received inappropriate treatment before admission. contemporary gastroenteritis is thus a relatively mild disease in the acute phase, but management before admission to hospital is often inadequate, and prolonged diarrhoea may be a feature in a considerable number of cases.
cauda equina syndrome after continuous spinal anesthesia. four cases of cauda equina syndrome occurring after continuous spinal anesthesia are reported. in all four cases, there was evidence of a focal sensory block and, to achieve adequate analgesia, a dose of local anesthetic was given that was greater than that usually administered with a single-injection technique. we postulate that the combination of maldistribution and a relatively high dose of local anesthetic resulted in neurotoxic injury. suggestions that may reduce the potential for neurotoxicity are discussed. use of a lower concentration and a "ceiling" or maximum dose of local anesthetic to establish the block should be considered. if maldistribution of local anesthetic is suspected (as indicated by a focal sensory block), the use of maneuvers to increase the spread of local anesthetic is recommended. if such maneuvers prove unsuccessful, the technique should be abandoned.
impaired insulin action on skeletal muscle metabolism in essential hypertension. previous studies have shown that essential hypertension is frequently associated with insulin resistance. the tissues responsible for this metabolic alteration have not been defined. we tested the hypothesis that skeletal muscle is the site of insulin resistance of essential hypertension with the use of the perfused forearm technique. eight hypertensive (age 42 +/- 3 years, body mass index 27 +/- 1 kg/m2, intra-arterial mean blood pressure 126 +/- 4 mm hg) and seven normotensive (age 48 +/- 3 years, body mass index 26 +/- 1 kg/m2, mean blood pressure 95 +/- 4 mm hg) male volunteers were studied. after glucose ingestion (40 g/m2), normal glucose tolerance in the patients was maintained at the expense of a heightened plasma insulin response, suggesting the presence of insulin resistance. during graded, local (intra-arterial) hyperinsulinemia encompassing the physiological range (12-120 milliunits/l), glucose uptake by forearm tissues was significantly (p less than 0.03) reduced in the hypertensive subjects as compared with the controls at each of five insulin steps, by 43% on the average. in addition, forearm lactate and pyruvate release were significantly less stimulated in the hypertensive than in the normotensive group (p less than 0.01 for both), presumably as a consequence of the decreased glucose influx. forearm exchange of oxygen, carbon dioxide, lipid substrates (free fatty acids, glycerol, and beta-hydroxybutyrate), and potassium were similar in the hypertensive and normotensive groups in the basal state. insulin had no effect on oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, and respiratory quotient in either study group, whereas it stimulated free fatty acids, glycerol, and potassium uptake to the same extent in the hypertensive and normotensive groups.
effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter, regional cerebral blood flow, and brain structure in cats. temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations; however, repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery. the present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings. initially, a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats. pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging, regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography, and cerebral edema and infarction were observed. in the 20-minute occlusion group, no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation. in the 1-hour occlusion group, pial arteries were dilated by 45%, and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values. the extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 +/- 7.5% (se) and infarction was 34.5 +/- 9.5% (se) of the hemisphere. in the second experiment, three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats. in 10 of them, thiopental (40 mg/kg) was used to protect the brain. in the group without barbiturate treatment, pial arteries were dilated by 40% at the end of experiment, regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70% compared with single 20-minute occlusion, cerebral edema was 19.5 +/- 8.1% (se), and infarction was 8.1 +/- 3.7% (se) of the hemisphere. in the treated group, these were only trivial changes. the effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage, and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary.
dacron-woven pacemaker pouch. influence on long-term pacemaker mobility. pacemaker migration can interfere with correct pacing system function and patient comfort. a dacron pouch has been developed which may prevent these problems. to assess the efficacy of the pouch, we measured various factors of pacemaker mobility in 100 patients after long-term follow-up. the patients were divided into three groups on the basis of their dictated operative reports: group 1, no pouch or anchoring stitch; group 2, pouch only; group 3, anchoring stitch to pacemaker header or pouch. the average age of the study population was 74.3 +/- 11 years. total follow-up time was 42 +/- 28 months (group i, 53 +/- 32 months; group 2, 36 +/- 23 months; group 3, 34 +/- 25 months). there were no significant differences when pacemakers were measured for movement in the inferosuperior and lateromedial directions, nor was there any difference in the distance between the incision scar and the pacemaker header in any group. there was a significant difference between group 1 and groups 2 and 3 when the degree of tilt of the pacemaker off the chest wall was compared. this was 46 degrees +/- 34 degrees for group 1 and 27 degrees +/- 26 degrees and 26 degrees +/- 27 degrees for groups 2 and 3, respectively (p less than 0.02 for both). these data suggest that the dacron pouch does not restrict pacemaker mobility parallel to the chest wall during long-term follow-up but does reduce the angle to which the pacemaker can be tilted relative to the chest wall.
a protocol for the investigation of pregnancy loss. a protocol for the evaluation of pregnancy loss should include a maternal history, dysmorphic examination of the fetus or abortus, photographs, autopsy, chromosome studies (in most cases), and radiographic or xeroradiographic studies. selected cases with suspected ascending or transplacental infection may require microbiologic investigation. increasing specialized laboratory techniques may help in the diagnosis of inborn errors of metabolism or storage disorders. coordination of studies requires the interaction of ob/gyn, pathology, genetics, cytogenetics, and nursing in order to assure delivery of this clinical service. knowledge of the causes of pregnancy loss and their typical time and mode of presentation can facilitate a focused evaluation, with a high chance of achieving an accurate diagnosis. the goal of all investigations is to provide families with recurrence risk data on which to base future childbearing decisions, as well as information on potential prenatal monitoring.
infiltration of the lower respiratory tract by helper/inducer t lymphocytes in htlv-1-associated adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma. the human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) is the causative agent of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma (atll), a disorder in which peripheral blood and multiple organs are infiltrated by malignantly transformed t lymphocytes. we investigated the nature of pulmonary disease in a patient with serologic evidence of htlv-1 infection. in this case, endobronchial biopsy specimens showed infiltration of the bronchial mucosa by pleomorphic cells exhibiting a high degree of nuclear irregularity. these cells were morphologically identical in appearance to malignant cells found in peripheral blood and infiltrating the dermis, expressed the okt4/leu3 phenotype and the receptor for interleukin 2, and, by analogy to gene rearrangement studies on leukemic blood cells, were monoclonal in origin. however, in situ hybridization of endobronchial biopsy specimens with full-length htlv-1 probes failed to detect retroviral rna or proviral dna. these studies indicate that t lymphocytic involvement of the lower respiratory tract in htlv-1-associated atll is characterized by expression of a malignant phenotype despite the inability to document actual cellular infection with this retrovirus by a molecular hybridization technique.
lack of cutaneous hyperemia in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in iddm. cutaneous blood flow was measured with the laser doppler technique and by recording cutaneous o2 tension on the forearm and forehead in nine young adult patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) and nine sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects after induction of hypoglycemia. in the healthy subjects, cutaneous blood flow measured with the laser doppler technique was increased by 120 +/- 26% in the forehead (p less than 0.01) and 196 +/- 50% in the forearm (p less than 0.01) at the glucose nadir (blood glucose 1.8 +/- 0.2 mm) compared with basal blood flow. in contrast, in diabetic patients, cutaneous blood flow was unchanged. the corresponding changes, at the glucose nadir, with cutaneous o2 tension recordings were 286 +/- 131% (p less than 0.05) in control subjects and -22 +/- 15% (ns) in diabetic patients. an impairment of sympathetic nervous function, not detectable by simple cardiovascular tests, could be responsible for the lack of cutaneous hyperemia and sweating and could contribute to unawareness of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients.
results of contemporary radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer: a clinicopathological study with an emphasis on the inadequacy of the tumor, nodes and metastases classification. we reviewed 261 patients who underwent a radical operation at a single institution as definitive treatment of invasive bladder cancer to evaluate the survival and accuracy of the tumor, nodes and metastasis system in characterizing the prognosis. between january 1979 and june 1987 the 261 evaluable patients underwent 1-stage radical cystectomy with pelvic node dissection and urinary diversion. no chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy was given before or after the operation. the postoperative mortality rate was 1.8%. the over-all staging error between clinical and pathological stages was as high as 44%. the over-all actuarial 5-year survival rate was 54.5%. the 5-year survival rates were 75% for stage pt1, 63% for stage pt2, 31% for stage pt3 and 21% for stage pt4 disease. a significant difference in the survival (p less than 0.002) was observed in stage pt3 by dividing tumors confined within the bladder wall (pt3a, 50%) from those extending throughout the bladder wall (pt3b, 15%). a careful evaluation of transitional cell involvement of the prostate in stage pt4a cancer led to the identification of 2 different patterns: 1) contiguous when a bladder tumor extended directly into the prostate through the bladder wall and 2) noncontiguous when a bladder tumor and a transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate were found simultaneously. these patterns had completely different (p less than 0.05) survival rates (6 versus 37%). the patients with high grade tumors had a worse prognosis in comparison with those with grades 1 and 2 tumors (41 versus 56%, p less than 0.005). the over-all 5-year survival of patients with positive nodes was 4% in comparison with 60% of those without nodal involvement (p less than 0.001). despite current optimal surgical treatment, nearly 50% of all patients with invasive bladder cancer continue to die. the need for a modification of the current tumor, nodes and metastasis tumor classification to provide the clinician a more reliable staging system for planning treatment modalities is indeed mandatory.
sustained increased cerebral blood flow with prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ("triple-h" therapy) after subarachnoid hemorrhage. delayed cerebral ischemia is the major cause of death and disability in patients who initially survive an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). in the present study, a protocol for prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ("triple-h" therapy) was utilized in the treatment of sah, and the response of cerebral blood flow (cbf) was evaluated. serial cbf measurements, f1 and cbf15, were performed using the xenon-133 inhalation technique to maximize therapy. surgery within 24 hours of subarachnoid hemorrhage was preferred. in 43 patients with sah, mean hemoglobin and hematocrit were lowered 3.0 +/- 0.3 g/dl and 8.9 +/- 0.5%, respectively, over the first 24 hours. mean f1 and mean cbf15 over the same period increased 34.2 +/- 5.8% and 21.2 +/- 3.6%, respectively. the maximum mean increase in cbf was 47.2 +/- 4.7% for f1 and 30.1 +/- 3.2% for cbf15. cerebral blood flow remained elevated during the 21 days after sah, irrespective of neurological grade on admission, age, sex, or angiographic arterial narrowing. this is the first report of a consistent method for establishing sustained improvement in cbf after sah. all patients managed in total compliance with the protocol remained neurologically stable or improved. two patients developed delayed ischemia and infarction because of the inability to sustain protocol requirements. thirty-six of the 43 patients (84%) were discharged capable of an independent lifestyle. triple-h therapy is a safe and effective modality for elevating and sustaining cbf after sah. in combination with early aneurysm surgery, it can minimize delayed cerebral ischemia and lead to an improved overall outcome.
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of high-risk angulated stenoses. percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) of angulated stenoses has been found in studies using older ptca equipment to be associated with a heightened risk of procedure-related major ischemic events. to better understand the factors associated with procedural risk and to identify means of lessening that risk, 100 patients, treated sequentially from 1986 to 1989, who underwent ptca of stenoses located at greater than or equal to 45 degrees bends, were characterized for 27 clinical, anatomic and procedural variables. clinical outcome of angioplasty was related to these variables. in addition, results from 344 consecutive contemporary patients undergoing ptca of nonangulated lesions were compared to those of the study group. procedural success was achieved in only 70% of patients with angulated stenoses, compared with 306 of 344 (89%) nonangulated stenoses, and major ischemic complications (death, bypass surgery or myocardial infarction) occurred in 13% of patients with angulated stenoses compared with 12 of 344 (3.5%) with nonangulated stenoses (both p less than 0.001). the presence of associated thrombus, stenosis length greater than 10 mm or age greater than or equal to 65 years led to an even higher risk of major complications (9 of 44 = 20.5%), whereas highly experienced angioplasty operators and the use of polyethylene terephthalate balloons appeared to decrease risk and increase the likelihood of success. ptca of such stenoses should be undertaken only cautiously and in carefully selected patients.
supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children: early disappearance and late recurrence the clinical course of 140 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome who had their initial episode of supraventricular tachycardia before 18 years of age was reviewed. among those whose tachycardia began at age 0 to 2 months, it disappeared in 93% and persisted in 7%. in 31%, it disappeared and reappeared at an average age of 8 years. among patients whose tachycardia was present after age 5 years, it was persistent in 78% at a mean follow-up period of 7 years. accessory connection location was mapped by electrophysiologic study in 87 patients and estimated by electrocardiography in 53 patients. there were no differences in tachycardia onset or recurrence based on accessory connection location. congenital heart defects were present in 37% of all patients, 23% of whom had ebstein's anomaly. among all patients who underwent cardiac catheterization, 63% of those with a congenital heart defect had a rightsided accessory connection, whereas 61% of patients with a normal heart had a left-sided connection (p less than 0.01). multiple accessory connections were found in 12% of patients with a congenital heart defect compared with 6% of those without such a defect. in conclusion: 1) supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome that begins in infancy may disappear, but it frequently recurs in later childhood; 2) if tachycardia is present after age 5 years, it persists in greater than 75% of patients; and 3) the location of the accessory connection does not affect the clinical course of tachycardia in children with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome.
effect of acute hypercapnia on limb muscle contractility in humans. the effect of acute hypercapnia on skeletal muscle contractility and relaxation rate was investigated. the contractile force of fresh and fatigued quadriceps femoris (qf) and adductor pollicis (ap) was studied in normal humans by use of electrical stimulation. maximum relaxation rate from stimulated contractions was measured for both muscles. acute hypercapnia led to a rapid substantial reduction of contraction force. the respiratory acidosis after 9% co2 was breathed for 20 min [mean venous blood ph 7.26 and end-tidal pco2 (petco2) 65.1 torr] reduced 20- and 100-hz stimulated contractions of qf to 72.8 +/- 4.4 and 80.0 +/- 5.1% of control values, respectively. after 8 and 9% co2 were breathed for 12 min, ap forces at 20- and 50-hz stimulation were also reduced. twitch tension of ap was reduced by a mean of 25.5% when subjects breathed 9% co2 for 12 min [mean arterialized venous blood ph (phav) 7.25 and petco2 66 torr]. over the range of 5% (phav 7.38 and petco2 47 torr) to 9% co2, there was a linear relationship between twitch tension loss and phav, arterialized venous blood pco2, and petco2. acute respiratory acidosis (mean petco2 61 torr) increased the severity of low-frequency fatigue after intermittent voluntary contractions of ap. at 20 min of recovery, twitch tension was 63.2 +/- 13.4 and 46.8 +/- 16.4% of control value after exercise breathing air and 8% co2, respectively. acute hypercapnia (mean petco2 65.1 and 60.5 torr) did not alter the maximum relaxation rate from tetanic contractions of fresh qf and from twitch tensions of ap.
multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection. iii. neurologic and neuropsychological findings. we explored the possibility that neurologic and neuropsychological changes constitute the earliest detectable manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. without knowledge of hiv status, we assessed neurologic signs and symptoms and administered a battery of neuropsychological tests to 208 homosexual men, of whom 84 were hiv negative, 49 were hiv positive and asymptomatic, 29 were mildly symptomatic, and 46 had significant medical symptoms but not the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. there was no difference between the hiv-negative and hiv-positive men in the frequency of neurologic signs or of defective or borderline performance on any neuropsychological test. however, hiv-positive men performed slightly but significantly worse than hiv-negative men on tests of verbal memory, executive function, and language. similar results were obtained when comparisons were limited to hiv-positive medically asymptomatic and hiv-negative men. there was no degradation of neurologic status or neuropsychological performance across stages of hiv severity, but neurologic and neuropsychological summary scores correlated with cd4/cd8 ratios in the hiv-positive group. ratings of neurologic signs and symptoms correlated with neuropsychological summary scores in the hiv-positive group only. cognitive complaints were more frequent in the hiv-positive men; they correlated with actual test performance in the hiv-positive but not hiv-negative men. the constellation of subjective and objective neuropsychological and neurologic findings suggests the possibility of a definable syndrome associated with hiv infection in asymptomatic individuals.
proliferation markers ki-67 and p105 in soft-tissue lesions. correlation with dna flow cytometric characteristics. frozen tissue immunoreactivity with ki-67, a monoclonal antibody that recognizes a nuclear antigen in nonresting or proliferating cells, was compared to dna flow cytometry results (from fresh tissue) in a diverse group of 60 soft-tissue lesions. both dna index and ki-67 score were independently reported to be associated with grade and prognosis in sarcomas, but no direct comparison of these two variables was made. it was attempted to measure proliferative activity in fixed paraffin-embedded tissues immunohistochemically in a subset of lesions using an antibody to another nuclear proliferation antigen, p105. lesions were given a grade according to lesion category (reactive, 1; benign, 2; low-grade malignant, 3; and high-grade malignant, 4). ki-67 reactivity correlated relatively well with this grading system (r = 0.59); benign lesions usually exhibited a low ki-67 score and malignant lesions usually but not always exhibited a high score. for example, some malignant fibrous histiocytomas contained only rare positive cells. some disparity between ki-67 score and grade and within histologic types indicates some independence from these features, a fact that may be important when correlation with prognosis is performed. however ki-67 did not correlate well with flow data such as percentage s phase (r = 0.30), percentage s + g2m phases (r = 0.37), or dna index (r = 0.39). this probably is due to the fact that ki-67 also marks cells in the g1 phase, whereas these are excluded in flow data analyses. anti-p105 highlighted almost all nuclei in all cases tested, including fibromatosis, and did not correlate with ki-67 score, histologic grade or dna flow cytometric data. results with p105 could not be favorably affected by titration experiments. it is reasonable to conclude that the ki-67 score is a variable related to but independent of histologic grade, histologic type, and dna flow values. whether it is prognostically important in human sarcomas, as has been suggested, awaits further clinicopathologic study.
cereal-based oral rehydration therapy. i. clinical studies. studies of "improved" oral rehydration solutions, in which glucose polymers (starch) derived from rice or other cereals were added to improve cotransport of sodium and to promote sodium and water absorption, have been reported. these solutions were administered to decrease diarrhea volume and duration, reduce vomiting, and replace volume loss in stools. in clinical trials of children and adults with high-output diarrhea, such as in cases of cholera, the use of cereal-based oral rehydration solutions (ors) compared with glucose-based ors produced significant (20% to 53%) reductions in stool volumes. in one study the duration of diarrhea was shortened by 30%. in noncholera diarrhea in children, cereal-based ors was as effective as glucose-based ors. although the amino acid transport systems were intact in patients with cholera, the addition of glycine to glucose-based or rice-based ors did not reduce stool volume or duration of diarrhea. the exception was alanine, which reduced stool output and ors requirements. more research is needed to determine the optimal mix of starch, amino acids, oligopeptides, and proteins that would utilize the absorptive active transport systems maximally to reduce fluid losses and duration of diarrhea.
effect of a tricyclic antidepressant and opiate antagonist on binge-eating behavior in normoweight bulimic and obese, binge-eating subjects. a subset of the obese population (25-30%) has been reported to engage in binge eating at least twice weekly (bingers) and to exhibit personality traits and food attitudes similar to those of normoweight bulimic women (bulimics). tricyclic antidepressants and opiate antagonists effectively suppress binge eating in normoweight bulimics. this 8-wk placebo-controlled, double-blind trial investigated the effect of naltrexone and imipramine on 33 obese bingers and 22 bulimics. naltrexone (100-150 mg/d) produced a significant reduction in binge duration in bulimics (36 +/- 16%, median +/- siqr; p = 0.02) whereas imipramine significantly reduced binge duration in obese bingers (88 +/- 31%; p = 0.02). a strong placebo effect was observed in obese bingers and, although a reduction in binge frequency occurred with both naltrexone and imipramine, it was not significantly different from the effect in placebo control subjects. we conclude that naltrexone and imipramine may be useful agents in the treatment of binge eating.
reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament. the results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free, autogenous, non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution. eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years. in forty-eight (60 per cent) of the knees, the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band. the patients were evaluated with a physical examination, a kt-1000 arthrometer, radiographs, a subjective questionnaire, and a revision of the scale of the hospital for special surgery for rating ligaments. postoperatively, seventy-six (95 per cent) of the eighty knees no longer gave way, and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven (84 per cent) of the knees. the average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points. all of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction. arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty (76 per cent) of the treated knees. in the patient who had bilateral reconstruction, the laxity was the same in both knees. seventeen patients, who had more than three millimeters of translation, also had additional related ligamentous instability, most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament. we think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction.
repeat operation for failure of antireflux procedures. the majority of patients who receive modern antireflux operations obtain substantial long-term relief of their symptoms. about 10% to 15% will have persistent or recurrent problems, some severe enough to warrant reoperation for correction. with careful symptom review, barium study, endoscopy, and manometry, the mechanism of failure becomes evident, and remedial surgical treatment may proceed. the results at reoperation are not as good as those of the primary procedure, which emphasizes the need for proper diagnosis and choice of procedure and for reliable execution of technique at the initial treatment.
physiological induction and reversal of focus formation and tumorigenicity in nih 3t3 cells [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 apr 15;88(8):3510] nih 3t3 cells undergo morphological transformation in response to conditions of constrained growth, such as occur in low serum concentrations or at confluence. transformation is expressed in a small fraction of the cells by the appearance of discrete foci of multiplying cells on a confluent monolayer of quiescent cells. we isolated and expanded cell populations from three dense and three light foci. cells from each of these populations efficiently reproduced foci of the same morphotype when grown on a background of nontransformed nih 3t3 cells. using cultures derived from one of the dense foci (subline d/2), we found that the number of focus-forming units was stable and the cells remained tumorigenic when they were subjected to repeated thrice-weekly passage in 2% calf serum. however, equivalent passage in 10% calf serum eventually rendered the cells incapable of both focus production and tumor formation. the results show that the capacity to produce tumors as well as morphological transformation are produced as a response to physiological constraints of growth and/or metabolism in the absence of carcinogens and that both properties can be reversed by lifting the constraints. this behavior is typical of an adaptational response and, taken together with other supporting evidence, shows that tumorigenesis does not require conventional genetic alteration.
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery. a study was made with intra-operative flash--visual evoked potentials (vep) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve. the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings. transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery, but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision. the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve.
cyclosporine in the treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma. we present our observations on the use of cyclosporine in the treatment of three patients with mycosis fungoides and two patients with sezary syndrome. the patients with mycosis fungoides showed mild improvement of short duration. one patient with sezary syndrome had significant improvement during 2 years of treatment. it is unlikely that cyclosporine alone will be sufficient therapy for cutaneous t cell lymphoma. however, lower doses in conjunction with other immunomodulators may minimize potential side effects and lead to longer lasting clinical improvement.
delayed subcapsular hematoma after percutaneous liver biopsy as a manifestation of warfarin toxicity. guidelines for the management of patients receiving chronic anticoagulation therapy who require liver biopsy are not clearly defined. in patients with normal coagulation, liver biopsy is a relatively safe procedure with a morbidity of less than 0.1% and a mortality of less than 0.01%. we report a patient with a prosthetic aortic valve who developed a large subcapsular hematoma 12 days after a percutaneous liver biopsy as a consequence of warfarin toxicity. based on the experience with this patient, reinstitution of anticoagulant therapy should be avoided for at least 72 h after a percutaneous liver biopsy. intravenous heparin should be resumed first, and warfarin added if no bleeding has occurred after an additional 48-72 h. the prothrombin time should be maintained at 1.5 times the baseline.
evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring: a case study approach. three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation (svo2) monitoring in critical care nursing practice. examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how svo2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization. in the first case, the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery. continuous svo2 data aided nurses in guiding, adjusting, and assessing therapy. the second case demonstrates how svo2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication. the final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization. in all the cases, continuous svo2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization.
uptake of 2-deoxy, 2-(18f) fluoro-d-glucose in bladder cancer: animal localization and initial patient positron emission tomography. an orthotopically transplanted, locally metastasizing rat bladder tumor model was developed to evaluate the extent of uptake of fluoro-deoxy-glucose (fdg) in bladder cancer. significant uptake of fdg in localized bladder tumors in rats was shown, with an average tumor-to-blood ratio of 39 at 2 hours after intravenous fdg administration. metastases (3 nodal and 1 peritoneal) also showed significant uptake of fdg, with an average metastasis-to-blood ratio of 21.7, and tumor involved-to-normal lymph node ratio of 5.3. because fdg is excreted in the urine, urinary fdg potentially could prevent the use of fdg/positron emission tomography (fdg/pet) scanning for localized bladder cancer. bladder lavage successfully reduced the retention of fdg in the normal rat bladder, with an estimated uptake ratio of tumor-to-normal bladder of 13.1 after 5 ml. saline irrigation. based on these data, we performed an fdg/pet scan of a patient with biopsy proved recurrent intravesical bladder cancer after radiation therapy. computerized tomography (ct) of the pelvis showed abnormalities consistent with radiation scarring and extravesical tumor. due to the scarring, the extent of tumor growth could not be determined. the patient also had pulmonary opacities seen on chest radiography. the fdg/pet scan of this patient showed significant extravesical uptake in the pelvis, confirming the abnormality noted on ct. good images of the clinically apparent metastases in the chest also were obtained. these preliminary data indicate that fdg/pet imaging of bladder cancer is feasible and it may provide new information for the diagnosis and staging of patients with bladder cancer.
left ventricular passive diastolic properties in chronic mitral regurgitation. background. in chronic mitral regurgitation, the myocardium responds to the increased filling volume by geometric alteration and eccentric hypertrophy. this study was designed to evaluate the effects of a pure volume overload on left ventricular diastolic chamber and myocardial properties and to assess the relation of passive diastolic function to systolic ejection performance. methods and results. by use of simultaneous cineangiography and left ventricular micromanometry, left ventricular passive diastolic stiffness was evaluated in nine normal controls (group 1), 14 patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and a normal ejection fraction (greater than or equal to 57%, group 2), and 13 patients with mitral regurgitation and a reduced ejection fraction (less than 57%, group 3). passive diastolic function was evaluated by using a three-constant elastic model. left ventricular chamber properties were represented by the relation of pressure to volume; myocardial properties were evaluated by relating myocardial midwall stress to midwall strain. the constant of left ventricular chamber stiffness was decreased in group 2 compared with controls (p less than 0.05) but it was normal in group 3. the constant of myocardial stiffness was increased in group 3 compared with groups 1 and 2 (p less than 0.01). among patients with mitral regurgitation, there was a significant inverse relation between ejection fraction and the constant of myocardial stiffness (r = -0.83). conclusions. the chronic adaptation to volume overload in chronic mitral regurgitation tends to decrease left ventricular chamber stiffness. patients with mitral regurgitation and a depressed ejection fraction demonstrated diastolic myocardial dysfunction. compromised diastolic function in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and reduced systolic performance may contribute to the clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure.
malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli. report of a case and review of the literature. juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change. the authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis. juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years. he underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years. at age 12, he underwent a proctectomy and a swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump. at age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp.
urticaria: current therapy. although the ideal treatment for urticaria is identification and removal of its cause, no underlying cause can be discerned in the majority of instances. the chief clinical problem is the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria. h1-receptor antagonists are the major class of therapeutic agents used in the management of chronic idiopathic urticaria. the h1 antagonists have been divided into subgroups based on their chemical structure. the second-generation h1 antagonists now available are particularly advantageous for individuals who must remain alert while working. terbutaline, a beta-adrenergic agonist, is of occasional benefit as an adjunct therapy in combination with an h1 antagonist. the oral administration of disodium cromoglycate is ineffective in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria, although a few individuals with urticaria caused by food allergy may respond to this drug. it is best to avoid repeated injections of epinephrine and the systemic administration of corticosteroids. urticaria has a capricious course: it may respond to the administration of placebos or it may resolve spontaneously. about 50% of the patients with urticaria are free of lesions within 1 year, but 20% continue to have episodes for more than 20 years.
locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasms as a cause for recurrent and persistent primary hyperparathyroidism. between 1982 and 1989, 145 patients underwent operations for persistent or recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism (hpt). at re-exploration, 15 patients (10.3%) were found to have locally recurrent parathyroid tumors (11 patients with adenoma and 4 with carcinoma). these 15 patients had 28 previous operations at outside institutions for hpt. patients with locally recurrent hpt secondary to adenoma had a longer disease-free interval than patients with locally recurrent carcinoma. at the time of evaluation at the national institutes of health (nih) for recurrent or persistent hpt, each patient was symptomatic and patients with carcinoma had significantly more symptoms and higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone than patients with adenoma. locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm was correctly localized by preoperative testing in 14 of 15 patients. these 15 patients underwent 18 reoperations at nih for excision of locally recurrent parathyroid tumors. following the final reoperation (two patients had more than one procedure), each patient had normal serum levels of calcium. in addition each patient remains biochemically cured (based on normal serum calcium level), with a median follow-up interval of 21 months. local recurrence of parathyroid adenoma comprises a small but significant proportion of cases of recurrent or persistent hpt and can be indistinguishable from parathyroid carcinoma. findings suggestive of carcinoma include shorter disease-free interval, higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone, and histologic appearance. whether the locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm is benign or malignant, aggressive surgery can control serum levels of calcium in these patients with acceptable rates of morbidity.
sensitivity of effect variables in rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis of 130 placebo controlled nsaid trials [published erratum appears in j clin epidemiol 1991;44(6):613] in a meta-analysis of placebo controlled nsaid trials, the sensitivity of the effect variables was calculated as the correlation coefficient and as the difference between drug and placebo, divided by the placebo group standard deviation. the patient's global evaluation was the most sensitive variable overall. pain was more sensitive than ritchie's index. several variables may be omitted from clinical trials, especially if two active drugs are being compared. for example, the best maximum estimate for the difference in esr between nsaids and placebo was 1.0 mm/hr (95% confidence interval -1.5 to 3.4 mm/hr), and for joint size 0.44% (-1.0 to 1.9%), corresponding to a quarter of a millimeter for each of the 10 joints usually measured. it is suggested to record only the patient's global evaluation, pain, and morning stiffness.
a prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis. pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis. however, it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis, how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected, and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means. in 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 (20%), as documented by dynamic pancreatography, and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28. all patients were prospectively treated by medical means. patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture. infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients (71%) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage, yielding a mortality rate of 15%. all 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis, including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency, were successfully treated without surgery. pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20% of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection. however, pancreatic necrosis by itself, even when accompanied by organ failure, is not an absolute indication for surgery. a trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order.
the role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices. peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension, and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding. treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices, stoma revision with devascularization, injection sclerotherapy, portacaval shunt, or liver transplantation. we reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices, who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis. fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients. surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients, although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients. injection sclerotherapy, used in three patients, effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery. definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding (portacaval shunt or liver transplantation) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery.
second primary cancer following hodgkin's disease: updated results of an italian multicentric study. the risk of second primary cancer (spc) was evaluated in 947 patients treated for hodgkin's disease (hd) during the period january 1969 to december 1979. the median follow-up of this series was 10.5 years (range, 9 to 19). treatment categories included radiotherapy (rt) alone (115 patients, 12%), chemotherapy (cht) alone (161 patients, 17%), combined rt plus cht (381 patients, 40%), and salvage treatment for resistant or relapsing hd (290 patients, 30.6%). fifty-six spcs were observed, occurring between 1 and 17 years from initial treatment. among these, secondary acute nonlymphoid leukemia (s-anll) was the most frequent spc (23 cases). secondary non-hodgkin's lymphoma (s-nhl) occurred in 5 patients, whereas a secondary solid tumor (s-st) was observed in 28 patients. the calculated actuarial risk (+/- se) of developing spc was 5.0% (+/- 0.9%) and 23.1% (+/- 5.8%) at 10 and 19 years, respectively. concerning treatment modalities and s-anll risk, no cases were observed in the radiotherapy group, whereas cht plus rt and salvage groups showed the highest actuarial risk. this was, in fact, at 10 and 19 years, 3.1% (+/- 0.9%) and 8.1% (+/- 4.0%) in the former group, and 1.8% (+/- 1.0%) and 16% (+/- 9.0%) in the latter. a statistically significant difference was observed when the cht plus rt group was compared with cht and rt groups (p = .04). concerning the relationships with chemotherapeutic regimens, 12 s-anll cases occurred in the mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (mopp) plus rt group, and only one case in the group receiving doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (abvd) plus rt. a statistically significant difference of s-anll actuarial risk was found comparing patients receiving mopp plus rt to all other treatment groups (p = .04). with respect to s-st, the actuarial risk at 10 and 19 years was 2.0% (+/- 0.6%) and 13.0% (+/- 3.8%), respectively. no significant differences were found among groups treated with different modalities. these data were confirmed by a multivariate analysis, which indicated treatment modality and age as independent variables for s-anll and s-st development, respectively. based on the prolonged follow-up analysis, the actuarial spc risk at 10 years hereby reported should reflect the real spc incidence in our series.
the classification of childhood seizures and epilepsy syndromes. the classification of seizures and the epileptic syndromes is particularly relevant to those who treat children, as most syndromes are age related, with onset between the neonatal and adolescent periods. whereas seizures are characterized by ictal behavior and eeg findings, epilepsy syndromes are defined by seizure type, etiology, age of onset, natural history, possible genetic factors, and prognosis. limitations exist, but attempts to use these classifications typically lead to a better understanding of the patient and allow for more precise evaluation and treatment.
ethical principles in geriatric nephrology. seven principles are suggested to resolve ethical issues raised by medical developments affecting an aging society. first, there must be clear identification of the goals of medical treatment. second, treatments must consider the whole person. third, physiological concerns are more important than chronological age. fourth, a patient's choice must be respected when choice is the result of an informed decision-making process. fifth, access has to be equitable while respecting the sixth principle which requires allocation of resources. finally, society must more clearly identify the appropriate principles to guide the care of the dying person.
the origin and fate of complex coronary lesions. complex irregular coronary artery stenoses, representing plaque rupture/thrombosis, are associated with the acute coronary syndromes. however, the natural history (origin and fate) of these lesions is not known. to examine this issue we studied 255 patients who had had two to four arteriograms within a mean interval of 2.6 +/- 1.7 years. of 53 irregular lesions that had progressed on a later arteriogram, 35 (66%) originated from areas that were smooth and less than 50% in stenosis diameter. of 44 irregular lesions on an earlier study, 10 (23%) became totally occluded, five (11%) progressed in severity (all remained irregular), 25 (57%) showed no change in severity (all remained irregular), and four (9%) regressed (two became smooth). nine of the 10 lesions progressing to occlusion were greater than or equal to 95% stenosed on the earlier study. only 2 of 44 lesions (5%) showed smoothing. these findings are in agreement with the concept that irregular lesions represent ruptured atherosclerotic plaques and demonstrate that they usually originate from mildly occlusive smooth plaques. markedly narrowed irregular lesions (greater than or equal to 95% stenosis) frequently progress to occlusion. irregular lesions less than 90% narrowed commonly remain angiographically stable, and irregular over several years. they were found rarely to evolve into smooth-walled plaques.
two siblings with phenotypes mimicking peroxisomal disorders but with discordant biochemical findings. the authors present a report on two sibling with a nearly identical phenotype mimicking peroxisomal disorder but with totally discordant biochemical findings. in an attempt to confirm the diagnosis of a peroxisomal disorder, plasma levels of very long chain fatty acids (vlcfa) and phytanic acid were determined. in addition, fibroblasts profile of vlcfa and plasmalogen levels were evaluated for case 2. pathomorphological examinations represented by lymph node and kidney biopsies as well as postmortem examinations of liver, adrenals and brain were performed in case 1. the phenotypes of both siblings showed marked resemblance to those observed in children with zellweger syndrome. the results of biochemical tests performed in case 1, together with abundant peroxisomes in the liver and the wide spectrum of clinical abnormalities suggest pseudo-zellweger or zellweger-like syndromes, but no conclusive data have been found. the plasmalogen level in fibroblasts as well as the fibroblasts profile of vlcfa noted in case 2 were within the normal range, thus excluding the possibility of a peroxisomal disorder. the striking phenotype resemblance of the siblings mimicking zellweger, together with discordant biochemical findings, are difficult to explain on the basis of currently available tests.
timing of operation for aortic regurgitation: relation to postoperative contractile state. with angiography and pressure measurement, we determined left ventricular volume, wall stress, and systolic performance in 30 patients with aortic regurgitation before and after successful aortic valve replacement. end-systolic wall stress was greatly elevated preoperatively and decreased to normal postoperatively. systolic pump performance assessed as ejection phase indexes was severely depressed preoperatively and improved to normal or near-normal postoperatively in most patients. the ratio of end-systolic wall stress to end-systolic volume index (ess/esvi), an index of myocardial contractility, was greatly decreased before operation. postoperatively, the ratio increased in all patients, becoming normal in 12 of the 13 patients who had a preoperative ess/esvi of 2.9 or greater. however, 15 of 17 patients in whom the ess/esvi ratio was less than 2.9 still had subnormal ratios, which indicates the presence of irreversible contractile dysfunction. stepwise multivariate analysis showed that preoperative ess/esvi was the only independent discriminator of postoperative normalization of the contractile function as assessed by ess/esvi. after aortic valve replacement, myocardial contractile state does not return to normal in a considerable number of patients. it is important to offer aortic valve replacement for aortic regurgitation before the chance for a good functional result is lost. the ess/esvi ratio may be a useful index in determining the timing of operation in patients with aortic regurgitation.
elevated intracranial pressure and computed tomography of the brain in fulminant hepatocellular failure. cerebral herniation is a leading cause of death in patients with fulminant hepatocellular failure. classical signs of elevated intracranial pressure are often absent in these patients. a reliable noninvasive method by which the presence of cerebral edema could be determined is much needed. to assess the efficacy of computed tomography of the brain in this setting, we compared the radiographic findings to the intracranial pressure measured by an epidural monitor in patients with fulminant hepatic failure. unfortunately, a considerable difference existed between the presence of cerebral edema diagnosed by computed tomography of the brain and elevation of the intracranial pressure. our observations suggest that in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and advanced hepatic encephalopathy, computed tomography of the brain is of little value in detecting cerebral edema. pressure monitoring is most important to establish the presence and guide the therapy of intracranial hypertension.
generation of ammonia and mucosal lesion formation following hydrolysis of urea by urease in the rat stomach. we examined the morphological changes in gastric mucosa and the generation of ammonia after exposure of the rat stomach to urea in the presence of urease, in attempts to investigate a pathophysiological role of urea, urease, and ammonia system in gastric ulcer diseases. exposure of the stomach for 20 min to 2 ml urea (0.025-0.2%) together with urease (100 iu) induced histological damages in a concentration-related manner. either urea or urease alone did not induce any histological change in the mucosa. instillation of urea into the stomach generated ammonia in the presence of urease; the amount of ammonia was increased depending on the concentration of urea, and was closely associated with the severity of histological damage. the exposure of the stomach to ammonia (nh4oh: 0.01-0.1%) also produced histological damages in the gastric mucosa in a concentration-related manner. the characteristics of injury induced by 0.5-1.0% ammonia were stasis of microcirculation, disruption of the surface epithelial cells, and necrosis of the mucosa. these results demonstrated that ammonia generated from the hydrolysis of urea by urease in the stomach causes damages in the gastric mucosa.
ischemic optic neuropathy. ion typically affects the older population with a sudden decrease in vision, altitudinal visual field loss, and a swollen optic nervehead. systemic hypertension and diabetes mellitus are the most commonly associated medical problems. occlusion of the posterior ciliary arterial blood supply to the retrolaminar optic nerve leads to axoplasmic stasis and further compromise of vessels in the nerve substance, which causes the typical funduscopic appearance. although there is no recognized medical treatment that can reverse the visual loss, a recent report suggests optic nerve sheath decompression for a select group of patients with a gradual decline in vision due to ion may be beneficial. when ion occurs in persons less than 50 years of age, such etiologies as juvenile diabetes mellitus, antiphospholipid antibody-associated clotting disorders, collagen-vascular disease, and migraines should be considered. rarely, complications of intraocular surgery or acute blood loss may cause an ischemic event in the optic nerve.
use of autologous blood in total hip replacement. a comprehensive program. we evaluated the effectiveness of a comprehensive program for the use of autologous blood in reduction of the need for transfusion of homologous blood in total hip replacement in a prospective study of a consecutive series of patients. transfusion of homologous blood was minimized through transfusion of preoperatively deposited autologous blood, intraoperative and postoperative salvage of washed red blood cells, and use of the clinical condition of the patient as the sole criterion for transfusion of non-autologous blood, regardless of the hematocrit. the cases of 143 patients who had had 154 primary total hip replacements were studied. one hundred and forty-three procedures were done on patients who had not been prevented from donating blood for medical reasons, and 93 per cent of these 143 procedures were performed with the availability of one to five units of preoperatively deposited autologous blood. the patients predeposited an average of 2.6 units of blood for each procedure. ninety-two per cent of the procedures for which autologous blood had been predeposited were performed without transfusion of homologous blood. in the entire group of patients, almost 90 per cent of the transfused blood was autologous blood. intraoperative salvage of red blood cells was successful in 148 procedures, and salvage was continued in the recovery room for all of these patients. an average of 408 milliliters of red blood cells was saved and reinfused, and this was 28 per cent of the average total loss of blood (1435 milliliters) for this series of procedures.
case finding, data quality aspects and comparability of myocardial infarction registers: results of a south german register study. the population-based augsburg coronary event register (330,000 residents, age 25-74 years) has registered a total of 1012 cases of acute myocardial infarction (ami) in 1985 and 1021 ami in 1986 and categorized them on the basis of the current who diagnostic algorithm for ami. the register is designed for longitudinal comparisons of annual ami risk (incidence, attack rate, death rate), and the risk to the ami patients themselves (28-day case fatality). the methodology and specific issues encountered during registration and data evaluation are described. with an estimated 95% completeness of case finding, the quality control data review which the register conducts annually shows a consistency of specific data structures which indicate stable case finding and validation procedures. however, local conditions which affect case finding and data completeness per case are responsible for the creation of subsets of ami which are in turn distinguished by differences in diagnostic category structures. with regard to the study objectives, the differences among subsets appear to have the least effect on rate calculations if definite and possible ami are combined. the implications of methodological variations and subset differences within and across registers on annual rate calculations and result comparisons are discussed.
therapeutic options in acute diverticulitis. diverticulitis is a serious intra-abdominal infection that ultimately afflicts about one in four patients having colonic diverticulosis. the illness may be indolent or fulminant, depending on the degree of colonic spillage and its containment. most patients require hospitalization, and medical therapy suffices in about three fourths. those who fail aggressive medical management and those with recurrent acute attacks, diffuse peritonitis, abscess, persistent obstruction, or fistulization require surgical intervention. abdominal ct scanning has supplanted the contrast enema as the acute diagnostic procedure of choice and allows guided percutaneous drainage of large abscesses in selected cases. this approach helps realize the surgical ideal of a single elective operation without a temporary colostomy. for those patients still requiring emergency surgery, the two-stage approach employing resection of the diseased colon at the initial operation is far superior to the older three-stage approach.
vaginal mullerian cyst presenting as an anterior enterocele: a case report. a case is discussed of an extremely large vaginal mullerian cyst that presented as an anterior enterocele. sonographic and radiologic studies are described. the patient underwent operative excision of the cyst with reconstructive vaginoplasty.
extensive vulvar and vaginal varicella necessitating abdominal delivery. maternal varicella occurs in fewer than five per 10,000 pregnancies in the united states. a case is reported in which markedly painful, extensive vulvar and vaginal ulcers prevented cervical examination, and cesarean section was performed with the patient under general anesthesia.
otogenic fusobacterium necrophorum meningitis. a case of meningitis secondary to acute suppurative otitis media in a previously healthy child is reported. the only organism isolated from blood after aerobic and prolonged anaerobic culture was identified as fusobacterium necrophorum. complete recovery followed treatment with surgery and prolonged antibiotic therapy. the role of anaerobes in the development of meningitis, the isolation and identification of fusobacterium necrophorum, the clinical presentations of f. necrophorum infection and the choice of antibiotics in the treatment of these infections are discussed.
leiomyoma of a digital artery. benign, soft-tissue masses of the hand are common. a vascular leiomyoma is an unusual tumor of smooth-muscle origin. in a 62-year-old man, the tumor arose from within a digital artery. persistent symptoms prompted an excisional biopsy, requiring resection of a portion of the artery. adequate collateral circulation preempted the need for a vascular graft. vascular repair or grafting may be necessary if collateral circulation is not adequate.
catheterization of coronary artery bypass graft from the descending aorta. the increasing frequency of reoperation for coronary artery disease has led to the use of a variety of grafts. this report describes the catheter technique for selective opacification of a saphenous vein graft from the descending thoracic aorta to the posterior coronary circulation.
translocation breakpoint of acute promyelocytic leukemia lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. acute promyelocytic leukemias (apls) are characterized by a reciprocal balanced translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17 [t(15;17)]. we report the isolation and characterization of one of the two reciprocal break sites and demonstrate that the chromosome 17 breakpoint lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. nucleotide sequencing of the 15;17 cross-over junction on 15q+ showed that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene is truncated within its first intron, 370 base pairs upstream from the splicing donor site of exon ii. such a recombination would be expected to generate abnormal rar alpha mrna and protein. southern blot analysis of a number of apls with chromosome 15- and 17-derived dna probes revealed similar 15;17 recombinations in the majority of other apls. our data are strong evidence that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene plays a crucial role in the leukemogenesis of apl.
myotonic heart disease: a clinical follow-up. we followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years. two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation, 6 developed a new bundle branch block, 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker, and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening qrs interval had a sudden death. most patients had predictable, gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system. we recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening qrs interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ecgs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker.
evaluation of methods for detecting venous reflux. perspectives in venous insufficiency. using 793 limbs with nonobstructive venous reflux, we evaluated a number of techniques used for the assessment of venous reflux. the venous doppler examination was found to be a reliable screening tool with excellent sensitivity and good specificity. photoplethysmography was 97% sensitive in patients with ambulatory venous hypertension; however, in milder forms of reflux, it was less sensitive. the major drawback of photoplethysmography was the large number of false-positive results obtained. ambulatory venous pressure measurement and another pressure-based technique, valsalva-induced foot venous pressure measurement, defined overlapping but different normal and abnormal limbs. descending venography, when performed as described by kistner et al, was found to be a reliable tool to assess reflux with more than a 90% sensitivity. the horizontal technique of performing descending venography and nucleotide descending venographies had unacceptably low sensitivity and were abandoned. features of venous reflux as outlined by these modern technical tools are described.
the reliability of palpation in the assessment of tumours. there is now a joint uicc-ajc classification for cervical lymph nodes based mainly on the size of the nodes. there is a recognized error in palpation, not only for detecting the presence of tumour but also its size. this study used an animal tumour model system to compare the ability of 6 independent observers of varying experience to detect and stage superficially transplanted growths. a preclinical medical student was as good as a consultant ent surgeon in predicting the presence of tumour but the ability to stage tumours accurately was related to experience. whilst the most experienced observers accurately estimated the size of tumours less than 2 cm, they were less accurate for larger (greater than 2 cm) tumours which were constantly understaged. this phenomenon may have important clinical implications particularly related to current nodal staging criteria.
pulmonary acinar development in diaphragmatic hernia. pulmonary acinar development was assessed in 17 autopsy cases of pulmonary hypoplasia associated with diaphragmatic hernia. morphologic examination was conducted by light and electron microscopy, and morphometric study was achieved by radial alveolar count and biochemical quantitation of surfactant phospholipid. in most cases of unilateral diaphragmatic hernia, the ipsilateral lung was underdeveloped morphologically and biochemically compared with the contralateral lung. however, both ipsilateral and contralateral lungs were well developed in some cases of unilateral diaphragmatic hernia. thus, acinar development of hypoplastic lung in diaphragmatic hernia is varied. the influence of other conditions, such as oligohydramnios, polyhydramnios, and other anomalies that may influence retention of lung fluid or fetal respiratory movement, should be considered to assess the acinar development of hypoplastic lung in diaphragmatic hernia.
characteristics of oculomotor disorders of a family with joseph's disease. the oculomotor abnormalities of 12 patients of a large japanese family with joseph's disease were investigated and compared with those of 27 patients with olivopontocerebellar atrophy (opca). all 12 patients had limitation of upward gaze, impairment of convergence and horizontal gaze nystagmus. however, none had abnormalities of pupillary shape or light reflexes. impairments of saccadic and pursuit eye movements were frequently present. further, difficulty of eyelid opening, bulging eyes, impairment of optokinetic and caloric responses and square wave jerks were seen in some of the patients. the autopsy examination of 1 patient revealed marked neuronal loss in the oculomotor nucleus with preservation of the edinger-westphal nucleus and neuronal decrease, myelin loss and gliosis of the dorsal midbrain including superior colliculus, pretectum and posterior commissures. disturbance of upward gaze, sparing of pupillary light reflexes and horizontal gaze nystagmus were frequent and early symptoms. the pattern of oculomotor disturbances is different from that of opca and evaluation of the oculomotor system is useful for clinical diagnosis of the disease.
abnormal pulsatile secretion of luteinizing hormone in men with epilepsy: relationship to laterality and nature of paroxysmal discharges. we compared the pulsatile secretion of luteinizing hormone (lh) between 13 men with clinically and electrographically documented temporal lobe seizures and 8 age-matched controls. serum for lh measurement was drawn every 15 minutes during 8 hours of eeg telemetry in both groups. the 2 groups did not differ significantly in average mean baseline lh secretion, total lh secretion, or average pulse amplitude. the group with seizures, however, showed a significantly greater (p less than 0.05) variability of baseline lh secretion and pulse frequency. among the men with unilateral paroxysmal eeg findings, pulse frequency was significantly greater (p = 0.05) with right epileptiform discharges or left slowing (6.4 +/- 0.4) than with left epileptiform discharges or right slowing (3.0 +/- 1.3). the relationship of pulse frequency to the nature and laterality of paroxysmal discharges makes it unlikely that endocrine abnormalities can be attributed to medication alone and strengthens the notion that temporal lobe epileptiform discharges may disrupt hypothalamic regulation of pituitary secretion.
effects of stress on gastric mucosal prostaglandin generation in intact, adrenalectomized, and sham-operated rats. to study the effects of (a) cold restraint stress and (b) adrenalectomy in association with cold restraint stress on gastric mucosal ulceration and prostaglandin generation, we performed two experiments. in the first, 40 rats were divided into four groups of 10 rats each: (a) unstressed and (b) stressed for 0.5 h, (c) stressed for 2 h, and (d) stressed for 4 h. in the second experiment, another 80 rats were divided into four groups of 20 rats each: (a) adrenalectomy plus cold restraint stress for 2 h, (b) adrenalectomy plus no stress, (c) sham operated plus 2 h of stress, and (d) sham operated plus no stress. in both experiments we recorded an ulcer index and measured mucosal generation of prostaglandin e2 (pge2) and prostaglandin i2 (6-keto-pgf1a). in conclusion: (a) cold restraint stress is associated with a time-dependent decrease in gastric mucosal pge2 generation, but no change in 6-keto-pgf1a generation, and an increase in mucosal injury that is maximal by 2 h. (b) adrenalectomy augments the effects of stress on mucosal injury but has no effect on prostaglandin generation; thus, the ulcerogenic effect of adrenalectomy appears to be independent of an effect on prostaglandin generation.
cemented and ingrowth fixation of the miller-galante prosthesis. clinical and roentgenographic comparison after three- to six-year follow-up studies. one hundred thirty-nine cemented and 132 cementless miller-galante total knee prostheses were followed between three and six years (average, 43-44 months). the fixation technique was based on patient age, bone quality, and ability to delay full-weight bearing. clinical follow-up studies were possible on 116 cemented knees. fifteen knees were lost because of death before the three-year follow-up study, and eight knees required component removal. one hundred twenty-three cementless knees were available for clinical follow-up studies; there were three deaths, and six failures required component removal. no cemented failure was due to fixation, and three cementless failures were due to lack of tibial ingrowth in two and pain of undetermined etiology in one. preoperative knee scores were slightly significant with cemented knees averaging 48 points and cementless knees averaging 52 points. a similar significant difference was maintained at the final follow-up study. no significant differences were noted for pain, limp, or support scores. average range of motion was similar in the two groups. radiolucent lines about the femoral component were rare. cementless tibial radiolucencies were partial in up to 20% of examined zones, and complete tibial tray radiolucency was seen in only three patients. no correlation between radiolucency and knee scores was seen.
interphase cytogenetic analysis detects minimal residual disease in a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and resolves the question of origin of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. we used in situ hybridization with a probe for the x chromosome to study interphase cells of bone marrow and peripheral blood specimens from a male patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by hyperdiploidy, including trisomy x. in a posttreatment bone marrow specimen, which was interpreted as a regenerating bone marrow morphologically and which demonstrated a normal karyotype cytogenetically, trisomy x was found in 16 of 1,000 interphase cells. this finding indicated the presence of leukemic cells that were undetected by conventional morphologic and cytogenetic techniques (ie, minimal residual disease). cytogenetic studies of a relapse specimen obtained after a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant showed only a normal female karyotype in each of 40 metaphase cells, suggesting that the relapse occurred in donor cells. however, interphase analysis demonstrated trisomy x in more than 80% of interphase cells and indicated that the relapse was of the original clone and was not a transformation of donor cells. this case illustrates that interphase analysis can be useful as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis in the detection of minimal residual disease and in the analysis of interphase cells that are not accessible to routine cytogenetic methods. it also illustrates that previously reported instances of relapse of leukemia in donor cells could have been incorrect if supported by cytogenetic data alone.
patient-controlled analgesia in children and adolescents: a randomized, prospective comparison with intramuscular administration of morphine for postoperative analgesia. a randomized, prospective trial of patient-controlled analgesia (pca), that is, a method of analgesia administration involving a computer-driven pump activated by patients to receive small doses within defined limits was performed in 82 children and adolescents after major orthopedic surgery to compare (1) intramuscularly administered morphine, (2) pca morphine and (3) pca morphine with a low-dose continuous morphine infusion (pca-plus). patients receiving pca and pca-plus had lower pain scores and greater satisfaction than patients receiving intramuscularly administered morphine. the three groups used equal amounts of morphine and most measures of recovery were identical in the groups. in particular, pca and pca-plus did not increase the incidence of opioid-related complications, and patients receiving pca-plus were less sedated than patients receiving intramuscular therapy. we conclude that pca and pca-plus are safe and effective methods of pain relief in children and adolescents after orthopedic surgery, are better accepted than intramuscular injections, and do not increase perioperative morbidity.
marked elevations of serum alkaline phosphatase in patients with aids. we have observed many patients with aids who have unexplained marked elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase. to determine the frequency of alkaline phosphatase elevations in patients with aids, and to identify diagnoses, medications, and demographic factors associated with such elevations, we conducted a retrospective study of the first 90 consecutive aids cases in hospitals affiliated with the university of colorado health sciences center in denver, colorado. we found elevations of alkaline phosphatase in excess of 1,000 iu/l in 17% of consecutive patients with aids. this level of elevation was less frequent in patients with kaposi's sarcoma but there was otherwise no significant association with diagnoses or medications, or transmission categories for aids. the majority of the patients with elevations to this level did not have documented opportunistic infections or biliary tract dilatation previously described in the "cholangitis" syndrome in aids patients. other explanations for these elevations for this common laboratory finding may exist.
ace inhibition improves vagal reactivity in patients with heart failure. the deranged autonomic control of heart rate was studied in 34 patients with heart failure (new york heart association [nyha] functional class ii to iii) by examining the carotid sinus baroreflex. the carotid sinus baroreceptors were stimulated by graded suction. the slope of the regression line between increases in cycle length and the degree of neck suction was taken as an index of baroreflex sensitivity. the reflex response is mediated by a selective increase of vagal efferent activity. baroreflex sensitivity therefore represents a measure of vagal reactivity. using multiple regression analysis, baroreflex sensitivity (bs) correlated positively to stroke volume index (svi) and inversely to plasma renin activity (pra) and to age: bs = 0.47 svi - 0.38 pra - 0.23 age + constant (r = 0.74; p less than 0.0005). in addition to digitalis and diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors (captopril or enalapril) were given to 16 patients for a mean of 17 +/- 3 days. the patients with hemodynamic improvement (group a) exhibited improved baroreflex sensitivity (1.4 +/- 0.4 to 3.6 +/- 1.2 msec/mm hg; p less than 0.01). baroreflex sensitivity remained unchanged (3.1 +/- 0.8 to 2.4 +/- 1.0 msec/mm hg; n.s.) in the patients without hemodynamic improvement (group b). the increase in reflex sensitivity did not correlate with hemodynamic alterations. baroreflex sensitivity during ace inhibition (bsd) was only related to the baseline baroreflex sensitivity (bsb): bsd = 2.8 bsb - 0.46 (r = 0.84; p less than 0.005). in patients with heart failure, reflex bradycardia decreases with age and with pra and increases with stroke volume. chronic therapy with ace inhibitors enhances vagal reactivity in patients with hemodynamic improvement.
comparison of 1073 mbq and 3700 mbq iodine-131 in postoperative ablation of residual thyroid tissue in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer. in a randomized prospective study, we compared the efficacy of low dose (1073 mbq) and high dose (3700 mbq) iodine-131 administration in postoperative ablation of residual functioning thyroid tissue in 63 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer. we were unable to demonstrate any difference between the low- and the high-dose of radioactive iodine in scintigraphic ablation of remnant tissue. in 81% (21/26) of the patients, 1073 mbq ablated after the first dose, 77% (21/26 + 3/5 = 24/31) after the first plus second dose, and 69% (24/31 + 0/4 = 24/35) after the first, second, and third dose. radioiodine (3700 mbq) ablated in 84%, 73%, and 69% of the patients after respectively 1., 1. plus 2., and 1. plus 2. plus 3. dose. forty percent of the patients ablated with the low dose and 44% ablated with the high dose had elevated thyroglobulin levels at the time of complete scintigraphic ablation. in conclusion, we did not find any difference between 3700 mbq and 1073 mbq iodine-131 as regard to number of doses needed for complete scintigraphic ablation of residual functioning thyroid tissue.
prostate-specific antigen and external beam radiation therapy in prostate cancer. this study of 133 patients with localized prostate cancer (stages a2 to c), treated by external beam radiation therapy (xrt), was undertaken for two reasons: (1) to investigate the usefulness of pretreatment serum prostate-specific antigen (psa) levels in evaluating patients before xrt; and (2) to investigate post-xrt changes in psa values and their likely clinical significance. it was found that pretreatment psa values in patients with localized disease exhibit wide patient to patient variability with a greater than 100-fold difference between the lowest and highest values. although mean psa values were significantly higher in stage c disease (51 patients; mean psa, 17.3 ng/ml) than in stage a2 disease (31 patients; mean psa, 9.0 ng/ml), stage b1 disease (23 patients; mean psa, 9.1 ng/ml), or stage b2 disease (28 patients; mean psa, 10.6 ng/ml), individual values were of virtually no help in assigning individual patients to a clinical stage. psa levels did not correlate with grade. after xrt, psa values fell significantly and dramatically in virtually all patients (98%) by 3 months follow-up. mean psa fell from 12.5 to 2.6 ng/ml, and median psa fell from 6.6 to 1.9 ng/ml. in most patients, psa continued to fall up to 12 months after xrt and then stabilized at 21 months. although psa values fell dramatically after xrt, psa was detectable in the serum of all patients. psa values tended to transiently and mildly elevate during xrt. in a small proportion of patients, rising psa values were observed after 6 months. the full significance of this requires further follow-up, of four such patients, one has relapsed. psa is a more sensitive marker of prostatic radiation than prostatic acid phosphatase.
the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease background. a high incidence of hypertension (50 to 75 percent) occurs early in the course of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. cyst enlargement, causing bilateral renal ischemia and subsequent release of renin, is proposed as the cause of this form of hypertension. methods. to investigate this hypothesis, we measured plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations during short-term and long-term converting-enzyme inhibition in 14 patients with hypertension due to polycystic kidney disease, 9 patients with essential hypertension, 11 normotensive patients with polycystic kidney disease, and 13 normal subjects. the groups were comparable with respect to age, sex, body-surface area, degree of hypertension, sodium excretion, and renal function. results. during the short-term study, the mean (+/- se) plasma renin activity was significantly higher in the hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in the patients with essential hypertension, in the supine (0.36 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.22 +/- 0.06 ng per liter.second, p = 0.05) and upright positions (1.03 +/- 0.14 vs. 0.61 +/- 0.08 ng per liter.second, p less than 0.03) and after converting-enzyme inhibition (1.97 +/- 0.28 vs. 0.67 +/- 0.17 ng per liter.second, p less than 0.0006). the mean arterial pressures measured in the supine and upright positions and the plasma aldosterone concentrations measured in the upright position were significantly higher in the normotensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in the normal subjects. after six weeks of converting-enzyme inhibition, renal plasma flow increased (p less than 0.005), and both renal vascular resistance (p less than 0.007) and the filtration fraction (p less than 0.02) decreased significantly in the hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease but not in the patients with essential hypertension. conclusions. the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is stimulated significantly more in hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in comparable patients with essential hypertension. the increased renin release, perhaps due to renal ischemia caused by cyst expansion, probably contributes to the early development of hypertension in polycystic kidney disease.
manifestations of migraine. migraine is a disorder with multiple manifestations affecting the circulation, gastrointestinal tract, and the central nervous system. involvement of the autonomic nervous system is responsible for many of the clinical features. an attack of migraine can vary from a fragment of the clinical spectrum to one with several phases and potentially permanent sequelae.
cystic hygroma: massive recurrence in adult life. cystic hygroma is considered a disease of childhood. it may appear for the first time in adult life but recurrence by that stage is rare and may present difficulties in diagnosis due to previous treatment. the authors present a case where early pharmacological intervention may have prevented a potentially life threatening situation. the world literature is also reviewed.
visual losses after myopic epikeratoplasty. the vision of seven patients who had undergone epikeratoplasty for myopia was evaluated by measuring their contrast sensitivity functions without and with the presence of a glare source. compared with findings for a normal control population, these epikeratoplasty patients were found to have statistically significant contrast sensitivity losses. to evaluate the clinical relevance of these losses, the results were also compared with those for two other patient groups with abnormal corneal optics, seven radial keratotomy patients and seven keratoconus patients wearing rigid contact lenses. contrast thresholds for the epikeratoplasty and keratoconus patients were similar and usually statistically indistinguishable, and their losses were far more profound than those of the radial keratotomy patients. the addition of glare did not alter this pattern of losses. the results document the extent of vision losses in these patients and suggest that increased intraocular light scattering is not a major contributor to the observed contrast sensitivity decrements.
basic mechanisms in vascular headache. to better understand and treat painful conditions, one needs to identify the cause, discover the source, and develop knowledge of peripheral and central pain transmission; headaches are no exception. the development of appropriate animal models is important. accordingly, we have reviewed the anatomy, neurochemistry, electrophysiology, and pharmacology of the trigeminovascular system in experimental animals and emphasized whenever possible the relevance of this final common pathway to migraine, cluster, and other headache syndromes in humans. for example, based on recent anatomic dissections, the pericarotid cavernous sinus plexus was suggested as an important focus to investigate cluster headache pathophysiology. this plexus is an anatomic point of convergence for the nerves giving rise to the signs of sympathetic and parasympathetic activity and sensory symptoms that develop in cluster patients. as in other nociceptive systems, trigeminovascular axons assume at least two important roles. one concerns the transmission of nociceptive information. electrophysiologic evidence supports the trigeminal nucleus caudalis as an important site for the convergence of visceral (vessel) and somatic (forehead) inputs to mediate the referral of vascular pain to superficial tissues. a second important role concerns the initiation of local increases in blood flow and enhanced protein permeability (sterile inflammation) via the axonal release of vasoactive neuropeptides. plasma extravasation develops within the dura mater following trigeminal stimulation. extravasation can be blocked by the administration of ergot alkaloids or sumatriptan, a new serotonin-like agonist, and a prejunctional (neuronal) mechanism of action for these drugs (such as blockade of release) was suggested based on experimental evidence. whether vasoconstriction also relates to the therapeutic efficacy remains to be determined. as in other organ systems, real or threatened tissue injury provides an important stimulus for depolarizing sensory fibers. the stimulus may come from external conditions such as reduced blood flow or hypoglycemia. the brain may also possess intrinsic neuronal mechanisms by which nociceptors may be synthesized (e.g., glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, seizures). molecules of relevance include bradykinin, prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and potassium. experimental evidence was presented demonstrating that the trigeminal nerve mediates hyperemia within cortical gray matter by axon-reflex like mechanisms. an important role for this nerve was established during the hyperemic period of recirculation after ischemia or during severe hypertension above the limits of autoregulation.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
chronic musculoskeletal pain and depressive symptoms in the general population. an analysis of the 1st national health and nutrition examination survey data. chronic pain and depression frequently occur together. a selection bias afflicts all hospital clinic and family practice populations in which this relationship has been examined. we report here some of the results from civilian populations outside institutions, examined in the united states in national surveys. the findings are based upon the recollection of individuals with respect to the period of 12 months prior to interview and upon the occurrence of depression in the previous week as indicated by the answers to the depression scale of the centre for epidemiologic studies (ces-d). they indicate that 14.4% of the united states population between the ages of 25-74 suffer from definite chronic pain related to the joints and musculoskeletal system. another 7.4% have some pain of uncertain duration. eighty-three percent of the definite pain group received treatment. chronic pain subjects scored significantly higher than normals on the ces-d (10.68 +/- s.e.m. 0.76 vs. 8.05 +/- 0.23, p less than 0.01) with subjects with pain of uncertain duration scoring similar to the definite chronic pain population (11.13 +/- 0.76). using a high cut-off score for depression. 18% of the population with chronic pain were found to have depression. this is in contrast to 8% of the population who did not have chronic pain.
a computerized laboratory alerting system. a computerized laboratory alerting system (clas) has been developed as part of an ongoing effort to improve the quality of care at lds hospital. the system identifies potentially life-threatening conditions on the basis of laboratory findings and then generates appropriate warnings and transmits them to clinicians. use of the system has led to a significant increase in the proportion of patients in life-threatening situations who have received appropriate care (50.8% before implementation vs. 62.5% afterward, p less than 0.05). among patients with hypokalemia, falling potassium levels, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia during treatment with digoxin, hyponatremia, falling sodium levels, hypernatremia, hypoglycemia, or hyperglycemia, the average length of time spent in the life-threatening situation has decreased from 30.4 to 15.7 hours (p less than 0.05) and the average length of stay has decreased from 14.6 to 8.8 days (p less than 0.05). there has been little change in the proportion of patients with findings indicating metabolic acidosis who have received appropriate care (32.3 vs. 34.6%). we conclude that clas has an important role in patient care at our hospital.
the fetus as a patient. surgical considerations. the diagnosis and treatment of human fetal defects has evolved rapidly over the past decade due to improved fetal imaging techniques and better understanding of fetal pathophysiology derived from animal models. the detection of a fetal anomaly may now lead to a change in the timing of delivery, a change in the mode of delivery, or prenatal treatment. because most therapeutic maneuvers involve some risk to the fetus and mother, there must be a reasonable expectation that the procedure is feasible, safe, and effective before it can be attempted in humans. this requires reliable information about the pathophysiology and natural history of the disease process, the efficacy of fetal surgical intervention in ameliorating the disease, and the feasibility and safety of the proposed intervention. this paper focuses on the rationale and initial clinical experience with fetal surgery for a variety of life-threatening fetal anatomic defects.
perioperative methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin (m-vac) for poor risk transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder: an eastern cooperative oncology group pilot study. a total of 18 patients with locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent 2 preoperative cycles of chemotherapy with methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy and 2 postoperative cycles of chemotherapy. radical cystectomy was performed in 17 of 18 patients (94%) with a pathological partial response in 3 (17%) and a pathological complete response in 2 (11%), for an over-all response rate of 28% (95% confidence limits 10 to 53%). at 23-month median followup 9 patients (50%) remained without evidence of recurrent disease, while 9 (50%) died of metastatic bladder cancer. average relative dose intensity of all therapy given was 78%. hematological toxicity was moderate, with no septic deaths or bleeding complications. however, 4 thromboembolic events occurred. while downstaging of the primary bladder tumor can occur with this perioperative schedule our results were not as impressive as some previously reported findings. the incidence of thromboembolic events is worrisome.
cytomegalovirus colitis and wasting. disseminated cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection is associated with significant and progressive depletion of body cell mass and body fat in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids). in a study examining the effect of ganciclovir on wasting in aids patients with disseminated cmv infection, it was found that patients receiving ganciclovir had significant improvement in such variables as body cell mass, body fat, body weight, and total body energy content when compared with those not receiving ganciclovir. the repletion of body cell mass observed in aids patients with disseminated cmv infection who are successfully treated with ganciclovir appears to be associated with improved quality of life and prolongation of survival.
corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy. leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity. in this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined, and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected. twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls. various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2% of leprosy patients. lagophthalmos, chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis, iris atrophy, and social blindness were found 4.5-16.6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity.
histologic pattern analysis of basal cell carcinoma. study of a series of 1039 consecutive neoplasms. this study attempts to define histologic patterns in 1039 consecutive cases of basal cell carcinoma and to correlate these patterns with adequacy of margins of surgical excision. five major histologic patterns were identified: nodular, 218 cases (21%); superficial, 181 cases (17%); micronodular, 151 cases (15%); infiltrative, 77 cases (7%); and morpheic, 11 cases (1%). a mixed pattern (two or more major histologic patterns) was present in 401 cases (38.5%). our study indicates that nodular and superficial basal cell carcinomas can be completely removed by simple surgical excision in a high percentage of cases (93.6% and 96.4%, respectively) whereas the micronodular, infiltrative, and morpheic basal cell carcinomas have a higher incidence of positive tumor margins (18.6%, 26.5%, and 33.3%, respectively) after excision. mixed patterns that consisted of combinations of the nodular, micronodular, or infiltrative types exhibited a behavior similar to the pattern that resulted in a greater chance of incomplete surgical removal.
syncope of unknown origin: clinical, noninvasive, and electrophysiologic determinants of arrhythmia induction and symptom recurrence during long-term follow-up. ninety-one consecutive patients with syncope of unknown origin underwent electrophysiologic studies (eps). univariate analysis identified the following variables: age, + signal-averaged ecg (saecg), left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef), history of myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, left ventricular aneurysm, and history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (smvt) on holter; multivariate analysis identified +saecg, lvef, and history of smvt as risk factors for induction of smvt at eps. all patients were followed up for 19.0 +/- 8.3 months and 17 had recurrence of syncope. patients were divided into empiric, ep-guided, and no therapy groups. the ep-guided therapy group included all patients with smvt at eps. recurrence rates among all three groups were similar. we conclude that: (1) patients who have inducible smvt at eps can be identified using certain clinical and noninvasive variables. when these patients undergo ep-guided therapy, their rate of recurrence of syncope becomes compatible with that of patients who had no arrhythmia induced at eps. (2) empiric therapy does not offer any benefit over no therapy in reducing the rate of recurrent of scope.
mistaken diagnoses in continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin. the syndrome of continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin has manifestations that resemble those of many other more common neurologic disorders during childhood and infancy. this similarity often leads to misdiagnosis when an adequate index of suspicion is not entertained and a comprehensive electromyographic examination is not performed. two affected patients from 1 family are reported to illustrate the type of diagnostic errors that were made before the establishment of the correct diagnosis.
regional blood flow supply and demand in heart failure. heart failure results not only in a fall in cardiac output but also in a redistribution of blood flow favoring some regional beds (the brain and the heart) at the expense of others (the kidney and working skeletal muscle). the chronic resting hypoperfusion of striated muscle is further compromised with exercise. maladaptive vasoconstrictor control mechanisms prevent the redirection of blood flow from nonworking muscle and liver to working muscle. this inappropriate preservation of nonworking organ perfusion further compromises the functional capacity of working muscle and is associated with evidence for metabolic deconditioning with reduced oxygen extraction and impaired oxidative phosphorylation. it is becoming increasingly clear that the clinical response to the inotropic and vasodilator therapy used in heart failure is in part dependent on the differing regional blood flow profiles of the various agents studied. the ability of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors to redirect blood flow away from nonworking regional beds to exercising muscle, and thereby to reestablish an appropriate physiologic response to changing metabolic needs, may be the overriding reason for their long-term efficacy. certainly in the future the comprehensive therapy of heart failure will have to take into consideration not only central hemodynamic but also regional blood flow/supply and demand issues.
expression of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor gene in human colorectal tumor. expression of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (psti) gene was examined by northern blotting analyses in 31 human colorectal tumors that included two benign adenomas and 26 adenocarcinomas. among the total of 28 cases which proved to be adequate for mrna analyses, all but one showed the expression of psti at various levels. in contrast, psti expression was not detected in two malignant lymphomas of the rectum. the level of psti expression was not correlated with the patient's age, sex, tumor location or size, stage of differentiation, lymph node metastasis, or progression stage. some colorectal adenocarcinomas were also shown to express genes that can hybridize with human trypsinogen cdna probe. it looks as though in these tumors, a protease(s) and its inhibitor are produced simultaneously as part of a cellular self-defense mechanism.
bone weakness after the removal of plates and screws. cortical atrophy or screw holes? bone weakness leading to refracture is a recognised complication of the removal of rigid fixation plates. we have used partially demineralised rabbit tibiae to simulate atrophic changes and to determine whether weakness is due to atrophy or to residual screw holes. partial demineralisation and a screw hole each reduced maximum bending moment. however, energy absorbing capacity was little affected by demineralisation, but was reduced to 50% by a single drill hole. residual screw holes are a considerably more important cause of bone weakness after plate removal than is cortical atrophy.
topical fibronectin and aprotinin for keratectomy wound healing in rabbits. we evaluated the effect of fibronectin (an adhesive protein) and aprotinin (a protease inhibitor) as single or combined topical therapies for primary healing and prevention of recurrent corneal epithelial defects in the rabbit keratectomy wound model. the biological activity of the prepared solutions of rabbit plasma fibronectin (0.6 g/l) was suggested by in vitro assays of rabbit corneal epithelial cell adhesion and gelatin-binding affinity. in the first experiment, we compared fibronectin, albumin (a control nonadhesive protein), and saline. in the second and third experiments, fibronectin supplemented with aprotinin, aprotinin alone, and saline were compared; aprotinin was used at concentrations of 40 and 1000 kallikrein inactivating units (kiu) per mililiter. our results suggest that topical fibronectin, 0.6 g/l, as well as aprotinin at 40- and 1000-kiu/ml concentrations, given alone or in combination, neither promote corneal epithelial wound healing nor prevent recurrent corneal epithelial defects in rabbit keratectomy wounds.
red cell autoantibodies, multiple immunoglobulin classes, and autoimmune hemolysis. the effects and interrelationships of multiple immunoglobulin coating (i.e., increased red cell [rbc]-bound igm and/or iga in addition to igg) were investigated in 404 patients with warm-reactive rbc autoantibodies on 590 occasions. multiple immunoglobulins were detected by enzyme-linked direct antiglobulin tests in 218 samples (37%), but in only 87 (15%) by agglutination methods. differences in populations were examined by chi-square, with p less than 0.005 being required for significance because of the multiple tests. compared with igg coating alone, multiple immunoglobulins were significantly associated with larger quantities (greater than 800 molecules/rbc) of igg, multiple igg subclasses, igg3 and c3d bound to the cells, and with serum haptoglobin levels of less than 0.1 g per l. the latter association was still significant when higher levels of rbc-bound igg and subclass pattern were taken into account. in samples with multiple immunoglobulin coating, there was no significant relationship (p greater than 0.05) between haptoglobins of less than 0.1 g per l and either c3d or multiple igg subclasses. it was concluded that multiple immunoglobulin coating, even when undetected by agglutination methods, is a major cause of hemolysis: it is part of a more generalized autoimmune response and acts with other factors such as the quantity of bound igg, the igg subclass pattern, and complement; it also has an important hemolytic effect in its own right.
a vascular malformation mimicking an intracanalicular acoustic neurilemoma. case report. a patient with an enhancing, completely intracanalicular mass on magnetic resonance imaging was operated on for a presumed acoustic neurilemoma, but was found at surgery to have an intracanalicular vascular malformation. this rare lesion should be distinguished from angiomatous change within an acoustic neurilemoma and in the past has been termed "vascular tumor," "hemangioma," or "fibro-angioma." the clinical distinctions between intracanalicular acoustic neurilemomas and intracanalicular vascular malformations and the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between the two are discussed.
determination of tissue viability in experimental electrical injuries. electrical burns or ischemia (induced by vascular ligation) were produced in the legs of 15 anesthetized dogs to study evolution of tissue changes compared with impedance alterations. after the application of 1-ampere currents at 60 hz, animals were monitored from 1 to 4 days. muscle impendance was measured with frequency sweeping to determine tissue destruction. nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (phosphorus 31) was used to assess metabolic activity, and results were compared to impedance measurements. in burned limbs, 70% reduction in muscle impedance was seen, which corresponds to decreased metabolic activity (absent organic phosphates) and suggests necrosis. visually viable tissue had impedance decreases of 25% and levels of organic phosphates slightly lower than normal. relaxation frequencies in dogs with severe burns exceeded 80 khz; in viable tissue, 30 to 40 khz (normal: 30 khz). in ischemic muscle, organic phosphates decreased rapidly (1 to 2 hours); impedance changes evolved more slowly (1 day), but they ultimately reached the same degree of severity. measurement of impedance may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of electrical burns, since significant changes strongly suggest nonviability.
imaging bone tumors in the 1990s. progress in bone tumor management has occurred as a result of cooperation among surgeons, oncologists, pathologists, and radiologists. during the 1990s radiologists will contribute to care of patients with bone tumors in major ways. tumor detection and preliminary diagnosis will be accomplished by radiography. tumor local extent will be assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and to a lesser degree by computed tomography (ct). distant spread of malignancy will be documented by radionuclide scintigraphy (skeleton) and by ct (lungs). the combined estimate of local extent and distant spread will assure adequate staging before definitive management decisions. preoperative closed percutaneous biopsy for histologic diagnosis will be accomplished on an outpatient basis under fluoroscopic or ct guidance. arteriography will be employed for delivery of local chemotherapy. some combination of arteriography, mri, and mr spectroscopy will be used to evaluate tumor response. after limb-salvage surgery, mri will sequentially assess the tumor bed; bone scintigraphy and ct will detect skeletal and pulmonary metastases. the radiologist's role will undergo continuous redefinition.
leukaemia complicating treatment for hodgkin's disease: the experience of the british national lymphoma investigation. objective--to determine the incidence of and risk factors for the development of secondary acute leukaemia and myelodysplasia in patients treated in british national lymphoma investigation's studies of hodgkin's disease since 1970. patients--2676 patients entered into hodgkin's disease studies between february 1970 and november 1986. data accrued up to november 1988 were analysed, ensuring a minimum follow up period of two years. design--retrospective analysis of multicentre trial data by case-control and life table methods. results--17 cases of secondary leukaemia were recorded in this group of 2676 patients, giving an overall risk at 15 years of 1.7%. the risks of leukaemia after chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy with radiotherapy were not significantly different. the risk of leukaemia increased sharply with the amount of treatment given as measured by the number of attempts at treatment. the 15 year risks of leukaemia were 0.2%, 2.3%, and 8.1% for patients receiving one, two, or three or more attempts at treatment. the highest risk, 22.8% at 15 years, was observed in patients treated with lomustine (ccnu), and a case-control study suggested that this was an independent risk factor. the risk of secondary leukaemia was largely related to the overall quantity of treatment, although exposure to lomustine seemed to be an important risk factor. treatment with both drugs and radiation was not more leukaemogenic than treatment with drugs alone. the greatest risk of secondary leukaemia was seen in multiply treated patients who were unlikely to be cured of hodgkin's disease. conclusions--avoidance of secondary leukaemia should be a minor factor in the choice of treatment for hodgkin's disease.
bronchopulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis. we report two cases of pulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis. the first patient, a 37-year-old woman, had bilateral basal bronchiectasis full of mucopurulent secretion, with a marked improvement of pulmonary function and roentgenographic appearance after a conservative approach. the second patient had severe pulmonary fibrosis of autoimmune nature and died owing to a pulmonary infection. in the second patient, a sulfasalazine reaction as an etiologic factor was excluded, while in the first this possibility seemed unlikely. therefore, we take these two cases as examples of the extraintestinal manifestations of ulcerative colitis.
eosinophilic inflammation in asthma background and methods. the importance of eosinophils in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma is not established. in an attempt to evaluate the role of eosinophilic inflammation in asthma, we compared 10 normal subjects with 43 patients with chronic asthma, 19 of whom had severe disease as assessed by a clinical scoring method described by aas and by pulmonary-function tests. eosinophils were counted in peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid, and in biopsy specimens obtained from the patients and post mortem from 8 subjects without asthma, but not from the 10 normal controls. eosinophil cationic protein was titrated by radioimmunoassay in the bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid from all subjects and studied by immunohistochemistry in the biopsy specimens. results. there was a significant increase in the number of peripheral-blood eosinophils in the patients that was correlated with the clinical severity of asthma (p less than 0.001) and pulmonary function (p less than 0.03). levels of eosinophils and eosinophil cationic protein were increased in the bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid from the patients and were also correlated with the severity of asthma (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.002, respectively). hematoxylin-eosin staining of bronchial-biopsy specimens showed that intraepithelial eosinophils were present only in patients with asthma. immunohistochemical analysis of eosinophil cationic protein revealed that normal subjects had only a few nondegranulated eosinophils deep in the submucosa, whereas all the patients had degranulated eosinophils beneath the basement membrane and among epithelial cells. in some patients there was a relation between the presence of degranulated eosinophils and epithelial damage. conclusions. eosinophilic inflammation of the airways is correlated with the severity of asthma. these cells are likely to play a part in the epithelial damage seen in this disease.
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma. severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma. thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma, of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms, were studied serologically. four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay. antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility, nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction (n = 8), ovarian cancer (n = 20), or epilepsy (n = 4) or in normal subjects (n = 9). in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction, antibodies in highly diluted serum (1:4000-1:8000) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut. this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis. from a clinical standpoint, serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma, thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor.
prospective analysis of sperm-oocyte fusion and reactive oxygen species generation as criteria for the diagnosis of infertility. we have undertaken a prospective analysis of the diagnostic significance of three different criteria of human sperm function including the conventional semen profile, measurements of hamster-oocyte fusion, and determinations of reactive oxygen species generation in 139 couples. the latter, who were characterized by a lack of detectable abnormalities in the female partner, were followed up for a maximum of 4 years to determine the incidence of spontaneous pregnancy in the absence of therapeutic intervention. assessments of monthly fecundity with life table analysis techniques revealed a highly significant, positive relationship between fertility and hamster-oocyte fusion rates that were measured in the presence of the ionophore, a23187. conversely, reactive oxygen species generation was shown to be negatively associated with both the outcome of the sperm-oocyte fusion assay and fertility in vivo. the clinical significance of these diagnostic techniques was emphasized by the fact that within the same data set, the conventional semen profile was of no significant diagnostic value.
spinal narcotics for postoperative analgesia in total joint arthroplasty. a prospective study. sixty patients who were scheduled to have an elective total hip or knee arthroplasty were randomly assigned to one of three groups of twenty patients each before operation with spinal anesthesia. a double-blind technique was used throughout the study. the patients in group i (control group) received hyperbaric 1 per cent tetracaine with epinephrine as the subarachnoid spinal anesthetic; the patients in group ii (morphine group), hyperbaric 1 per cent tetracaine with epinephrine and a single subarachnoid dose of duramorph (morphine sulphate), 0.5 milligram; and those in group iii (dilaudid group), hyperbaric 1 per cent tetracaine with epinephrine and a single subarachnoid dose of dilaudid (hydromorphone hydrochloride), 0.002 milligram per kilogram of body weight. during the first twenty-four hours after the operation, the patients in group ii and group iii had significantly less pain compared with those in group i. this was shown by the use of a visual linear-analog pain scale (p less than 0.05), the patients' ratings of the quality of relief of pain (p less than 0.02), and comparative measurements of the pain-altering medications that were used (p less than 0.05). the patients in group ii and group iii did not have any more complications or side effects than those in group i. there was no significant difference in the quality and duration of analgesia between group ii and group iii.
paratesticular myxoma: an unusual benign intrascrotal neoplasm. we have presented a case of paratesticular myxoma and have described the clinical history, findings on light microscopy and immunohistochemistry, and possible pathogenesis. although primary paratesticular myxoma is a rare lesion, it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intrascrotal mesenchymal tumors.
sexual changes in hemiparetic patients. eighty-six patients, each with hemiparesis caused by a single stroke, were studied to assess the changes in sexual life experienced after the onset of the illness. clinical data were collected, and a questionnaire concerning both sexual behavior and feelings about sexuality was administered to the patients and their spouses. twenty-four couples were eliminated from further analysis because of a discrepancy between husband and wife in the answers concerning sexual behavior after stroke. a marked decline in sexual activity after stroke was found in both genders; other aspects of sexual behavior underwent fewer changes. the feeling of an overall change in sexual life was reported more frequently by male patients. most patients' spouses reported the feeling of an overall psychological change in their partners and the feeling of an overall change in sexual life after the onset of the illness. no significant associations were found between clinical features and changes in sexual life. this study confirms that cerebrovascular accidents are generally followed by some important alterations in sexual life. clinical factors do not seem to play a crucial role in determining these changes, which may be better explained in terms of maladjustment attributable to psychologic and interpersonal factors.
effect of inflammatory mediators on airway nerves and muscle. the neuromuscular mechanisms underlying airway hyperresponsiveness have been reviewed on the basis of studies of the changes induced by ozone inhalation in dogs. in vivo, there is increased, nonspecific airway hyperresponsiveness based on studies of the response to inhaled acetylcholine or histamine. the underlying inflammatory mechanism involves release of ltb4 and/or other chemotactic agents from epithelial or lumenal cells, ingress of macrophages, neutrophils, and platelets from the blood vessels between the muscle and epithelium, and migration of mast cells into the epithelium. the hyperresponsiveness seems to depend upon the influx of neutrophils and actions of thromboxane a2 released from the neutrophils. in vitro, there is increased responsiveness to field stimulation of cholinergic nerves and to acetylcholine (not to kci) in tracheal strips. these effects can be mimicked by a thromboxane a2 analog (u44619). in the sucrose gap, the txa2 analog does not affect the excitatory junction potential, but in low concentration it increases and prolongs a series of fading membrane oscillations closely related to the contractions. we consider these oscillations to reflect ongoing release and/or action of acetylcholine. in high concentrations the analog causes a small depolarization and a tonic contraction, but it does not enhance the sensitivity to acetylcholine. txa2 may be acting either presynaptically or postsynaptically or both to produce these effects; however, changes in release of an epithelial-derived relaxing factor do not seem to be involved. we conclude that txa2 actions probably underlie hyperresponsiveness developed in vivo and in vitro after ozone inhalation.
the effect of continuous epidural analgesia on postoperative pain, rehabilitation, and duration of hospitalization in total knee arthroplasty. efficacies of three alternate methods of postoperative analgesia were studied in 156 patients who had total knee arthroplasty (tka). forty-two of these patients received parenteral meperidine hydrochloride or morphine (group 1), 58 patients received periodic epidural injections of morphine (group 2), and 56 patients received continuous epidural infusions of bupivacaine hydrochloride and duramorph (group 3). the postoperative course of all patients was documented in terms of the incidence and severity of pain, range of joint motion, duration of hospitalization, and occurrence of complications. although epidural analgesia increased the cost and duration of the operation, good-to-excellent pain relief was attained in 86% (group 2) and 88% (group 3) of cases with epidural analgesia compared with 61% of patients (group 1) receiving conventional analgesia. moreover, 67% of patients in group 1 experienced frequent episodes of moderate-to-severe postoperative pain in contrast to 40% of patients in group 2 and only 10% of patients in group 3. as a result of diminished pain, greater joint motion was obtained within the first 72 hours in groups 2 and 3. they also had shorter hospitalization (9.6 days versus 11.2 days for group 1 and 10.8 days for group 2). however, the use of epidural analgesia did not reduce the incidence of complications, including nausea. continuous infusion of epidural bupivacaine and duramorph provided good-to-excellent control of postoperative pain after tka. however, better analgesics are needed to reduce the high incidence of side effects associated with various treatment methods.
lymphoma presenting as a popliteal mass in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. a patient with hla-b27 and rheumatoid factor positive rheumatoid arthritis presented with a painless swelling in his popliteal fossa. clinical features were atypical for a baker's cyst, and subsequent investigation showed this lesion to be a primary malignant lymphoma.
watch and wait after careful surgical treatment and staging in well-differentiated early ovarian cancer. patients with well-differentiated epithelial ovarian cancer stages ia, ib, ic, and iia (figo 1976) were observed after surgical treatment without adjuvant therapy. careful surgical staging was required, and the extent of the staging procedure was assessed in each individual patient. there were 107 patients entered in the study by nine dutch oncology centers. of these 107, 21 did not fulfill all of the inlet criteria of the study and were excluded. central pathologic review was performed in the remaining 86 cases, revealing that there was borderline tumor in seven patients, moderately or poorly differentiated tumor in nine patients, and tumor of nonepithelial histologic cell type in one patient. in two cases, no material for histologic review was available. after exclusion of these 19 cases, 67 patients were further analyzed. none of these 67 patients was lost during the follow-up period that ranged from 19 to 99 months (mean, 50 months). tumor recurrence was found in four patients after 11, 25, 34, and 34 months of follow-up, all of whom died shortly after diagnosis of the recurrence without satisfactory response to secondary treatment. for the patients who underwent the most extensive staging procedure, disease-free 5-year survival was 100%. for the patients who were inaccurately staged, disease-free 5-year survival was 88%. it was concluded that well-differentiated early stage (ia-iia) ovarian cancer carries an excellent prognosis after surgical treatment and complete surgical staging, with the possible exception of patients with stage ic disease with malignant peritoneal washings. furthermore, it was considered that the application of more objective and consistent ways of assessing tumor grade should be encouraged. surgical staging should be regarded as the golden standard in defining subsets of low-risk patients and should be included and clearly defined in future trials on early ovarian cancer.
closed heart cryoablation of the his bundle using an anterior septal approach. his bundle cryosurgical ablation using a closed heart anterior septal approach was used in 6 patients. there were 3 men and 3 women, aged 24 to 73 years. three patients had atrial fibrillation and 2 patients had atrial flutter (2 with combined episodes of atrial tachycardia). one patient had atrial tachycardia. five patients had no structural heart disease and 1 patient had left ventricular dilatation (ejection fraction, 0.35). all patients undergoing his bundle cryosurgical ablation had permanent heart block without intraoperative complications (mean follow-up, 25 months). closed heart anteroseptal cryoablation of the his bundle is effective and is an alternative to attempted catheter ablation.
insensitivity of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy after heart transplant. obstructive coronary artery vasculopathy can be a major problem after cardiac transplant. the use of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy was studied in 73 consecutive patients after heart transplant. angiographically or autopsy-proved coronary artery disease was noted in 19 consecutive patients (26%) followed prospectively for 2.5 +/- 1.3 years (mean +/- standard deviation). patients underwent yearly surveillance echocardiographic, rest/exercise-gated wall motion, oral dipyridamole thallium, ambulatory electrocardiographic monitor and angiographic studies. positive test results were defined by decrease in ejection fraction, wall motion abnormality, failure to increase ejection fraction, lack of systolic blood pressure increase, and ischemic st changes at maximal exercise (or on ambulatory monitor). wall motion abnormalities and depressed ejection fraction on echocardiography were also abnormal studies as were fixed or reversible perfusion defects on thallium scan. angiograms were considered positive when 50% luminal narrowing was observed and autopsy coronary artery vasculopathy was defined as cross-sectional coronary obstruction greater than or equal to 70%. no procedure that was examined proved to be a sensitive noninvasive detector of heart transplant coronary artery vasculopathy. all except ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring had positive predictive values less than 50%. interestingly, of the techniques evaluated, echocardiography was most sensitive (53%). the poor predictive ability of noninvasive testing in this population may be due to the fact that these tests are designed to detect effects of ischemia rather than coronary obstruction alone. use of these particular noninvasive modalities routinely after heart transplant to detect coronary artery vasculopathy should be reconsidered because of their low sensitivity and predictive value when used as a surveillance screen.
massive metastasis from squamous carcinoma of the tonsil. squamous carcinomas of the oro-pharynx are associated with a high incidence of distant metastases at post-mortem. a case of a massive distant metastasis from a squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil is presented. this occurred despite excellent local control. the pathology and the possible management implications are discussed.
complications after cardiac operations in patients with severe pulmonary impairment. the postoperative courses of 39 patients with severe lung disease (31 with obstructive disease and 8 restrictive) who underwent a cardiac operation were retrospectively reviewed. the stay in the intensive care unit of the study group was 7.9 +/- 10.3 days (mean +/- standard deviation) compared with 2.4 +/- 3.9 days for the control group (100 patients with less impaired pulmonary function) (p less than 0.001). the study group also had a greater number of valve replacements than did the control group (p less than 0.01). patients with obstructive disease had more respiratory complications than did patients with restrictive disease (p less than 0.05). there were 21 cases of atelectasis. effusions were noted in 11 patients. ten patients had bronchospasm. bronchial secretions were a major problem in 6 patients. pneumonia developed in 4 patients, and pneumothorax occurred in 3 others. the two in-hospital deaths were not directly related to pulmonary complications. our findings indicate that (1) patients with severe lung impairment generally do well after a cardiac operation but have more postoperative pulmonary complications than patients with less impairment; (2) patients with restrictive pulmonary disease appear to fare better than those with obstructive disease; (3) pulmonary function tests can alert the clinician to the possible risk of postoperative complications, but they cannot, by themselves, be used to exclude patients from operation; and (4) patients with severe pulmonary impairment facing valve replacement are at greater risk of pulmonary complications than patients having other types of cardiac surgical intervention.
total pelvic exenteration with simultaneous bowel and urinary reconstruction. the technique of total pelvic exenteration with simultaneous bowel and urinary reconstruction is described as a surgical option for the management of pelvic sarcoma in adults and for highly selected patients with other types of advanced pelvic malignancy. the surgical technique is presented in detail as performed in a 43-year-old man who presented with extensive primitive pelvic sarcoma. we believe that this approach may provide the benefits of an exenterative operation without the undesirable psychosocial sequelae of a permanent colostomy and external urinary diversion.
the hands in alcoholic liver disease. chronic liver disease is frequently associated with a hyperdynamic circulation, with warm hands and capillary pulsations. in our experience, however, a significant number of patients with alcoholic liver disease complain of cold hands. in this study, we have investigated the presence of the subjective feeling of hand temperature in 114 patients with alcoholic liver disease compared with 96 healthy controls, and studied possible correlations of this subjective feeling with the severity of liver disease. significantly more patients with alcoholic liver disease complained of cold hands than did normals, and these differences were more prominent in the male group. the awareness of cold hands appears to be commoner in an intermediate group of patients, between those with noncirrhotic liver disease without varices and those with cirrhosis with varices. a similar pattern of awareness of hand temperature was found when patients were staged according to the severity of their liver disease. we conclude that a staging can be made; at an early stage of liver disease, patients tend to have warm hands, subsequently develop cold hands, and at a later stage, their hands become warm again.
a prospective study of patients with sciatica. a comparison between conservatively treated patients and patients who have undergone operation, part ii: results after one year follow-up. the prospective study included 122 sciatica patients who had not undergone operation (nops) and 220 sciatica patients who had undergone operation (ops); all had been examined by rhizography. the follow-up study was done on 110 (90%) of the nops and 212 (96%) of the ops. the nops were divided into two groups: 30 patients with pathologic rhizography (pr) and 80 patients with negative rhizography (nr). pain-, adl-, and occupation-handicap indices showed that after the 1 year follow-up the op group had the best result and the nr group the lowest result. the pr group had nearly as good a result as the op group. thus, sciatica patients are candidates for conservative therapy, even though they have pathologic findings in rhizography, if the symptoms are mild. to improve therapeutic outcome, more accurate diagnostic tools are needed to develop specific therapy especially for those sciatica patients with negative rhizography.
long-term follow-up of the first 56 patients treated with intracoronary self-expanding stents (the lausanne experience). fifty-six patients treated with the self-expanding intracoronary stent for acute occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) or restenosis were followed for 24 to 43 months (mean 34). successful deployment and positioning were achieved in 55 of 56 patients. occlusion of the stent was documented in 8 patients, the earliest occurring 30 minutes and the latest 8 months after implantation. three of the occluded stents were recanalized by ptca. coronary artery bypass grafts (cabg) were required in 4 patients: 1 for symptomatic restenosis, 1 for left main stenosis adjacent to the stent and 2 for acute ischemia during the in-hospital stay (less than 7 days). myocardial infarction occurred in the territory of the stented vessel in 8 patients. seven patients died between 1 day and 19 months after implantation. local bleeding complications occurred in 10 patients, with 5 requiring blood transfusion. restenosis within the stent was angiographically documented in 5 patients (9%). a new lesion in the treated vessel was found in 10 patients, followed by implantation of a second stent in 5 and a third stent in 1 patient. medical treatment was instituted in the remaining 4 patients. forty-nine patients (88%) are alive. twenty-nine patients (51%) remained asymptomatic, and 44 (78%) are in a better functional class than before the implantation. eleven of 15 (79%) major complications (acute occlusions or deaths) occurred in patients who received a stent in the left anterior descending coronary artery. in conclusion, implantation of the self-expanding intracoronary stent appears to be a new therapeutic option for treating acute occlusion or restenosis after ptca.
autopsy-documented cure of multiple myeloma 14 years after m2 chemotherapy. multiple myeloma was diagnosed in a 65-year-old woman in 1974 who thereafter received five-drug m2 chemotherapy. all protein abnormalities subsequently returned to normal and serial bone marrow studies documented complete bone marrow remission. destructive bone lesions persisted radiographically, but did not progress. in 1987, a localized sigmoid adenocarcinoma was resected. in 1988, the patient presented with multiple brain metastases associated with a primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma that proved rapidly fatal. at autopsy, no evidence of multiple myeloma was found. this report describes the first tissue-documented cure of multiple myeloma 14 years after diagnosis and initiation of m2 chemotherapy. the possible association of multiple myeloma with other malignancies is also discussed.
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age (from the 1985 to 1986 national heart, lung, and blood institute's coronary angioplasty registry). the 1985 to 1986 national heart, lung, and blood institute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) registry series of 1,801 initial procedures included 486 patients age greater than or equal to 65 years (elderly). in comparison to younger patients, a greater proportion of elderly patients were women and had unstable angina. elderly patients had more history of hypertension and more history of congestive heart failure. although the elderly had more extensive vessel disease, the numbers of lesions and vessels attempted with ptca were similar in the older and younger cohorts. angiographic success rates were similar for all age groups. although complication rates in the catheterization laboratory did not differ, patients greater than or equal to 65 years were much more likely to require emergency coronary artery bypass graft surgery (cabg) (5.4 vs 2.8%, p less than 0.05) or elective cabg (3.9 vs 1.6%, p less than 0.01). the in-hospital death rate was considerably higher among the elderly (3.1 vs 0.2%, p less than 0.01). at 2-year follow-up, symptomatic status and cumulative rates of myocardial infarction, cabg and repeat ptca were similar for elderly and younger patients. the death rate after 2 years was higher among elderly patients (8.8% of patients greater than or equal to 65 years vs 2.9% of patients less than 65 years, p less than 0.01). when the relative risk of death for the elderly was adjusted for factors more prevalent among those greater than or equal to 65 years (history of congestive heart failure, multivessel disease, unstable angina, history of hypertension and female gender), the relative risk remained significant but was substantially reduced (from 3.3 to 2.4).
bilateral papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum of the parotid gland without accumulation of technetium 99m pertechnetate: report of a case and review of the literature. an unusual case of bilateral papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum of the parotid with multiple lesions showing no active uptake of 99mtc pertechnetate is presented. similar cases showing no accumulation of radionuclide are reviewed.
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. the emory university experience. the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis has become a practical alternative to proctocolectomy for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and polyposis coli. to evaluate its success, the emory university affiliated hospital experience from february 1984 to march 1989 was retrospectively reviewed. there were a total of 50 patients identified; 84 per cent had ulcerative colitis, and 16 per cent had polyposis coli (familial polyposis and gardner's syndrome). the majority of these patients underwent a two-stage operation, but one-third required a three-stage procedure due to difficulty in mucosal proctectomy or toxic megacolon. j-pouch construction was performed in 72 per cent of patients, s-pouch construction in 14 per cent, straight ileo-anal anastomosis in 8 per cent, and lateral isoperistaltic ileo-anal anastomosis in 6 per cent. of the 50 patients, 36 (72%) have had closure of the temporary ileostomy. fourteen patients have not had ileostomy closure due to change in diagnosis to crohn's disease, operative complications, or ileostomy closure pending. the combined operative morbidity per patient for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and the closure of the ileostomy was 32 per cent. this included bowel obstruction, 16 per cent; pelvic abscess, 6 per cent; and ileo-anal separation, 4 per cent. follow-up on patients with ileostomy closure ranged from 6 months to 4 years (mean, 1.3 years). stool frequency was 5.9 stools per 24 hours at 6 months and improved with time. during the follow-up period, all patients were eventually completely continent of stool during the day, and most became completely continent of stool at night.
leukemia initiated by hemopoietic stem cells expressing the v-abl oncogene. we report a mouse model with which to study leukemogenesis initiated by a specific genetic change introduced into a primary lymphoid-myeloid pluripotent stem cell. fetal liver hemopoietic cells were infected with a high titer of helper-free abelson murine leukemia virus (a-mulv) and were used to reconstitute lethally irradiated mice. two weeks later, progenies of a single primitive hemopoietic stem cell carrying a specifically integrated a-mulv proviral dna could be detected in both colony-forming units in spleen and myeloid colony-forming cells in the bone marrow. beginning at 3 weeks after transplantation, the recipients developed elevated leukocyte counts, splenomegaly, and increase of blast cells in the peripheral blood. multiple clones of a-mulv-infected cells were infused into each recipient. however, in the same animal, dna extracted from various affected organs and from factor-independent lymphoid and myeloid immortalized cells all contained an identical, specifically integrated proviral genome. the a-mulv-infected stem cells differentiated into various lineages of hemopoietic cells. our data show that the expression of the v-abl oncogene in a primary lymphoid-myeloid hemopoietic stem cell directly initiates leukemogenesis by stimulating factor-independent growth. the monoclonal-type disease development seen in these animals may require the occurrence of an additional genetic event.
hashimoto's encephalopathy: a steroid-responsive disorder associated with high anti-thyroid antibody titers--report of 5 cases. we describe 5 patients with a relapsing encephalopathy in association with hashimoto's disease and high titers of anti-thyroid antibodies. the presentation is usually with a subacute onset of confusion, alteration in conscious level, and focal or generalized seizures. the relapsing course, association with myoclonus or tremulousness, and episodes of stroke-like deterioration are characteristic features. the long-term prognosis is favorable with steroid therapy, though additional immunosuppressive therapy may be required. neurologic investigation typically shows a diffusely abnormal eeg, high csf protein level without pleocytosis, and normal brain ct and cerebral angiogram. isotope brain scan may show patchy abnormal uptake. hashimoto's encephalopathy should be recognized as a definite neurologic entity and added to the list of cns complications of thyroid disease.
late relapse with nodular lymphoma after treatment for diffuse non-hodgkin's lymphoma. histologic conversion from a low-grade non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl) into a more aggressive histologic pattern is a common, well-documented event in nhl. the converse phenomenon, appearance of a low-grade, follicular nhl after treatment for diffuse, intermediate, or high-grade nhl, has only recently been recognized. the clinical, morphologic, and immunologic features of a patient in whom relapse with an indolent nodular lymphoma was noticed after combination chemotherapy for diffuse lymphoma are presented. immunologic markers at presentation and relapse were similar. other previously reported cases are reviewed. implications for diagnosis and therapy as well as the pathogenesis of this unique form of conversion are discussed.
lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death. therefore, the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope. thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes (group 1) and 65 patients had no syncope (group 2). these two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age, gender, incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia, clinical history, frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease. there were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation. there were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium, atrioventricular node, accessory pathway and right ventricle. furthermore, no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia, mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation, and minimum rr interval during atrial fibrillation. in addition, the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2. the occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates. furthermore, the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence.
effect of vaginal delivery on the pelvic floor: a 5-year follow-up. we have studied the pelvic floor musculature and its innervation in 14 of 24 (58 per cent) multiparous women who had been recruited into a study of the effect of childbirth on the pelvic floor as part of a prospective investigation that began in 1983. these 24 women had all delivered by the vaginal route without forceps assistance. five of the 14 had developed clinical symptoms of stress incontinence 5 years later; two of them had had a further uncomplicated vaginal delivery during this time. there was manometric and neurophysiological evidence of weakness because of partial denervation of the pelvic floor striated sphincter musculature, with pudendal neuropathy, which was more marked in those women with incontinence. these findings provide direct evidence for the hypothesis that pudendal neuropathy due to vaginal delivery persists and may worsen with time.
overdose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution. a preventable cause of postischemic myocardial depression. reperfusion of warm blood cardioplegic solution is useful in minimizing reperfusion damage after ischemia. this study tests the hypothesis that overzealous administration of blood cardioplegic solution at reperfusion counteracts these benefits and can lead to a prevalence of depressed ventricular performance and mortality similar to that seen after normal blood reperfusion. thirty-one dogs underwent 45 minutes of 37 degrees c global ischemia on vented bypass. six received normal blood reperfusion and 25 were reperfused with a warm aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution; of these, eight received high-dose (3600 +/- 600 ml) and 17 received limited-dose (1180 +/- 120 ml) blood cardioplegic reperfusion over 10 to 20 minutes. high-dose blood cardioplegic perfusion (5100 +/- 200 ml) without prior ischemia was tested in an additional five dogs. high-dose blood cardioplegia without preceding ischemia did not alter ventricular function (peak stroke work index 96% of control). after ischemia, normal blood reperfusion (no cardioplegia) resulted in marked left ventricular dysfunction (peak stroke work index 36% of control, p less than 0.05 versus control) and a 33% mortality rate (2/6 died). high-dose cardioplegic reperfusion yielded marginal recovery of stroke work index (40% of control, p less than 0.05 versus control) and a 25% mortality rate (2/8 died). in contrast, limited-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution allowed 100% survival (17/17) and restored stroke work index to 90% of control (1.3 versus 1.45 gm.m/kg). we conclude that reperfusion damage can be avoided by initial reoxygenation with limited doses of substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution. conversely, high-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution offsets this benefit, reduces recovery substantially, and may be lethal.
degenerative lesions in the articular cartilage after meniscectomy: preliminary experimental study in dogs. articular cartilage degeneration was studied in an experimental model including 68 knees of adult dogs on which five different types of medial meniscectomy had been performed with a followup period of 10 to 450 days. the results were assessed by macroscopic, radiologic, and histologic methods. the degenerative lesions increased proportionally to the amount of meniscal tissue resected and the duration of observation. these lesions proved to be more intense at the tibial plateau compared to the femoral condyle. for both joint surfaces the predominant location was the central zone. considering the degenerative process by the articular cartilage after total meniscectomy, maximum preservation of meniscal tissue is recommended.
induction of ps2 and hsp genes as markers of mucosal ulceration of the digestive tract. the recently discovered ps2 protein is expressed under estrogen control in a subset of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancers and in an estrogen-independent manner in normal stomach mucosa. the ps2 gene belongs to a family of genes encoding peptides that contain a conserved 5-cysteine domain, the p domains. although the function of the ps2 protein is unknown, it has been suggested that it may have cell growth stimulatory activity. we report here that expression of the ps2 gene in the digestive tract, which is normally restricted to the stomach, is strongly induced by mucosal ulcerations elsewhere in the tract, most notably in crohn's disease. ps2 gene expression is restricted to the mucosal layers adjacent to the ulcerations, in a region where a novel epidermal growth factor-secreting cell lineage was shown to be induced by mucosal ulceration. the human hsp gene, which contains a tandem duplication of the ps2 gene p domain and is coexpressed with the ps2 gene in normal stomach mucosa but not in breast cancers, is also expressed in crohn's disease. we suggest that ps2 gene expression may provide a useful marker for mucosal ulcerations of the digestive tract.
compound blue nevus: a variant of blue nevus with an additional junctional dendritic component. a clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical study of six cases. we studied six cases of heavily pigmented melanocytic lesions with features of blue nevi within the dermis, but with an additional junctional dendritic component. this compound variant of blue nevus is an uncommon lesion that has not been previously identified as a distinct histologic entity. immunoperoxidase staining for s100 protein and counterstaining with azure b distinguished the presence of melanocytes among numerous melanophages within the dermis. the compound variant of blue nevus can be distinguished histologically from combined blue nevus, pigmented spindle cell nevus, malignant melanoma, and melanosis due to a regressed malignant melanoma. the six lesions were from three men and three women whose ages ranged from 11 to 51 years (mean, 31 years). three lesions were located on the trunk, two on the extremities, and one on the head. after a mean follow-up period of 47 months (range, 38 to 58 months), there was no evidence of recurrence.
age-related hypotensive effect of placebo and active treatment in patients older than 60 years. european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly. elderly hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to active treatment (n = 365) or placebo (n = 377). the effects of treatment on blood pressure were calculated by subtracting pretreatment blood pressure from the blood pressure at 3 months. in the two treatment groups, the decrease in systolic and diastolic pressures was more pronounced in older patients. however, the slopes of blood pressure change with age were not significantly different in the two treatment groups: systolic, -0.47 and -0.37 mm hg/year in the active-treated and placebo patients, respectively; diastolic, -0.26 and -0.15 mm hg/year, respectively. thus, proving that an observed age-related hypotensive effect is caused by a particular drug requires comparison with a control group on placebo.
percutaneous cholangioscopic or transpapillary insertion of self-expanding biliary metal stents. fifty-two self-expanding metal stents were implanted in 39 patients with malignant (35 patients) or benign (4 patients) biliary stenoses. the stents were inserted and properly released by means of a 7 or 9 french gauge delivery catheter via the percutaneous (20 patients) or transpapillary (19 patients) route. in all cases the endoprostheses expanded to a diameter of 7 to 10 mm and achieved complete biliary tract drainage. jaundice disappeared in 36 of the 39 patients. no early complication was observed. after a median follow-up of 121 days (range, 30 to 422 days), 19 of 36 patients are still alive and 17 died of non-procedure-related causes. biliary re-obstruction occurred in five patients due to tumor overgrowth above or below the prosthesis (four patients) or bile encrustation (one patient). in patients with malignant stenoses, the probability of stent patency is 78% after 200 days. we conclude that large-bore metal stents are safe, effective, and provide better long-term patency than conventional endoprostheses.
role of leukotriene c4 in mucosal damage caused by necrotizing agents and indomethacin in the rat stomach. intragastric ethanol stimulates mucosal formation of leukotriene c4 in the rat stomach. the present study demonstrates that the increase in leukotriene c4 formation begins within 30 seconds and is maximal within 5 minutes, closely paralleled by the appearance of hemorrhagic lesions. leukotriene c4 formation returns to prechallenge levels within 3 hours, although erosions still persist. intragastric 0.2n naoh, acidified 100 mmol/l taurocholate, 25% nacl, or 0.6n hcl did not consistently increase leukotriene c4 formation despite severe mucosal injury. a number of sulfhydryl-containing or sulfhydryl-blocking agents as well as metals protected against mucosal damage and simultaneously prevented the stimulation of leukotriene c4 formation induced by ethanol. none of the agents increased and some virtually abolished mucosal formation of prostaglandin e2, indicating that gastroprotection can occur completely independently of the endogenous prostaglandin system. the leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitor mk-886 markedly suppressed gastric leukotriene c4 formation but did not protect against damage caused by ethanol, naoh, nacl, or acidified taurocholate. oral indomethacin reduced the ex vivo formation of both prostaglandin e2 and, to a lesser extent, leukotriene c4 in the gastric mucosa, inducing a shift in the balance from protective prostaglandins to proulcerogenic leukotriene c4. pretreatment with mk-886, however, did not significantly diminish indomethacin-induced lesions. these data suggest that leukotriene c4 is not the exclusive mediator of gastric injury caused by necrotizing agents or indomethacin. on the other hand, certain protective compounds exhibit a striking parallelism between protection and inhibition of ethanol-induced leukotriene c4 formation, suggesting that they may affect a target crucial for both mucosal injury and stimulation of 5-lipoxygenase.
expression of insulin-like growth factor ii, alpha-fetoprotein and hepatitis b virus transcripts in human primary liver cancer. insulin-like growth factor ii is a fetal growth factor structurally and functionally related to insulin and insulin-like growth factor i. its mrna expression is developmentally regulated in human liver, the reexpression of insulin-like growth factor ii fetal transcripts being often observed in primary liver cancer. insulin-like growth factor ii and alpha-fetoprotein mrnas were studied in 16 human primary liver cancers, most of which were highly differentiated. hepatitis b virus transcripts were also analyzed in the tumors from hepatitis b virus chronic carriers. alpha-fetoprotein mrna was detected in only four tumors and in one nontumorous cirrhotic tissue; all these samples also displayed insulin-like growth factor ii fetal transcripts. furthermore, fetal insulin-like growth factor ii mrnas were observed in five tumors and six nontumorous cirrhotic areas not expressing alpha-fetoprotein mrna. the presence of hepatitis b virus rna was only observed in tissues not expressing alpha-fetoprotein or fetal insulin-like growth factor ii mrna. in conclusion, fetal insulin-like growth factor ii transcripts are more frequently observed than alpha-fetoprotein mrna in highly differentiated liver cancers and in surrounding cirrhotic areas. the reexpression of fetal insulin-like growth factor ii transcripts might then be a marker of early steps of liver cell transformation.
amiodarone versus bretylium for suppression of reperfusion arrhythmias in dogs. reperfusion arrhythmias are an important complication of interventions to limit infarct size. recently, amiodarone has been shown to be rapidly effective in suppressing sustained, incessant ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this setting. this study evaluated the time course of arrhythmia suppression and comparative efficacy of amiodarone versus bretylium in a canine model of reperfusion arrhythmias. of 23 dogs subjected to a harris two-stage coronary artery ligation followed by release, 18 demonstrated clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias and received either intravenous amiodarone, 5 mg/kg (9 dogs), or intravenous bretylium, 5 mg/kg (9 dogs). direct-current shocks for sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were administered as necessary. amiodarone rapidly suppressed sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this model with no dog in the amiodarone-treated group requiring cardioversion after completion of the 15-minute infusion versus 4 of 9 dogs in the bretylium-treated group (p less than 0.05). amiodarone was more effective than bretylium in suppressing episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation, episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and premature ventricular complexes. the blood pressure and heart rate decreased more after amiodarone administration than after bretylium administration. we conclude that, in the canine reperfusion arrhythmia model, amiodarone is rapidly effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and is more effective than bretylium.
liposarcoma arising in the cheek: report of a case and review of the literature. the following points can be made about liposarcoma of the oral cavity: 1) it is rare and slow growing; 2) it is often mistaken for a benign lesion; 3) there is a direct correlation of microscopic appearance with biological behavior and prognosis; 4) treatment is primarily surgical, with radiation used for selected cases; and 5) the better-differentiated tumors seem to respond more favorably to radiation.
hepatic infarction in preeclampsia. two cases of hepatic infarction in toxemia of pregnancy are described. both patients had associated laboratory findings of the hellp syndrome (hemolytic anemia, elevated liver enzyme levels, and low platelet levels). computed tomography (ct) showed nonenhancing low-attenuation areas varying in configuration from peripheral, well-defined, wedge-shaped lesions to larger abnormalities. magnetic resonance imaging showed a corresponding area of low signal intensity on t1-weighted images with high signal intensity on t2-weighted images. ultrasound showed several well-defined peripheral hypoechoic areas. the low attenuation and lack of enhancement on ct scans and the absence of mass effect are the key distinguishing features.
pyoderma gangrenosum followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis in a patient with iga paraproteinemia. six months after the occurrence of pyoderma gangrenosum, subcorneal pustular dermatosis developed in a 60-year-old woman. the patient's serum was found to contain an iga-lambda paraprotein. although similar cases have been reported, this case is unique in that a distinct episode of pyoderma gangrenosum was followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis.
the t(15;17) translocation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia fuses the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene to a novel transcribed locus. retinoic acid is a vitamin a derivative with striking effects on development and cell differentiation. several nuclear retinoic acid receptors (rars), acting as ligand-inducible transcription factors, have been characterized and indirect evidence suggests that they have distinct roles. one of the most intriguing properties of retinoic acid is its ability to induce in vivo differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (apl) cells into mature granulocytes, leading to morphological complete remissions. because the rar alpha gene maps to chromosome 17q21 (ref. 14), close to the t(15;17) (q21-q11-22) translocation specifically associated with apl, we analysed rar alpha gene structure and expression in apl cells. we report here that, in one apl-derived cell line, the rar alpha gene has been translocated to a locus, myl, on chromosome 15, resulting in the synthesis of a myl/rar alpha fusion messenger rna. using two probes located on either side of the cloned breakpoint, we have found genomic rearrangements of one or other locus in six patients out of eight, demonstrating that the rar alpha and/or myl genes are frequently rearranged in apl and the breakpoints are clustered. these findings strongly implicate retinoic acid receptor alpha in leukaemogenesis.
the nuclear pacemaker: is renewed interest warranted? from 1973 through 1987, 155 radioisotope-powered "nuclear" pacemakers were implanted in 132 patients at the newark beth israel medical center. the longevity of the first 15 devices, all of which were fixed-rate (voo) pacemakers, was significantly better than that of 15 lithium-chemistry demand (vvi) pacemakers used as control devices (p = 0.0002). of the entire cohort of 155 nuclear pacemakers, 136 were vvi devices and 19 were voo units. the patients with voo pacemakers needed reoperations more often than did those with vvi pacemakers, chiefly for mode change (p less than 0.001). power-source failure was observed in only 1 case, but 47 nuclear pacemakers were removed for other reasons, including component malfunction (15 units), mode change (12 units), high pacing thresholds (8 units) and lead or connector problems (5 units). the actuarial survival at 15 years was 99% for power sources and 82% for the entire pacing systems (pulse generators plus leads). the frequency of malignancy was similar to that of the population at large and primary tumor sites were randomly distributed. deaths most commonly were due to cardiac causes (68%). thus, nuclear pacemakers are safe and reliable and their greater initial cost appears to be offset by their longevity and the resulting decrease in the frequency of reoperations. it is reasonable to suggest that further use be made of long-lasting nuclear power sources for modern pacemakers and other implantable rhythm-management devices.
reversible brain death. a manifestation of amitriptyline overdose. tricyclic antidepressants are known to cause central nervous system depression. however, a generalized depression of brainstem functions is rarely reported. we report a patient in deep coma with complete absence of brain-stem reflexes after she had taken a large quantity of amitriptyline. with continuous supportive treatment, she eventually regained all neurologic function and made a full recovery.
metastatic melanoma to the facial nerve. isolated metastatic malignant melanoma to the facial nerve has never been reported. this presentation illustrates a primary melanoma of the helix of the ear that was treated by excisional biopsy and then wedge resection in 1983. the primary melanoma was clark's level iv and 1.3 mm in thickness. in 1985, a facial paresis slowly developed. there was no gross evidence of recurrent melanoma in the ear or neck, but ct scan showed a mass in the region of the stylo mastoid foramen. a reoperation of the primary site revealed metastatic melanoma in the facial nerve, expanding it to approximately 10 times its normal size. a composite resection was done for the melanoma, and the paralyzed face was immediately rehabilitated by a masseter muscle transfer. the patient received 6000 rads to this area postoperatively and has remained free of disease to date, having returned to his profession as a dentist. a detailed study of all the specimens indicated that this represented a primary metastasis to the facial nerve.
propranolol and the morning increase in sudden cardiac death: (the beta-blocker heart attack trial experience). to provide insight into the protective effect of propranolol on mortality after myocardial infarction observed in the beta-blocker heart attack trial, the time of occurrence of sudden cardiac death was examined in this population. between 5 a.m. and 11 a.m., 25 of the 56 total deaths (38%) occurred in the placebo patients compared with 11 of 45 (24%) in the propranolol patients. excluding this period, there were nearly equal numbers of sudden cardiac deaths in the propranolol and placebo groups. this retrospective analysis suggests that beta blockade is protective during the morning hours when a surge of sympathetic activity may increase the risk of sudden cardiac death.
multiple sclerosis and narcolepsy: possible similar genetic susceptibility. we have studied 2 patients with multiple sclerosis and narcolepsy. in both patients, the dr 2 histocompatibility antigen was positive. in each of the patients, the diagnosis of narcolepsy was confirmed by polygraphic testing.
when is pulmonary artery catheterization worth the risks? bedside pulmonary artery catheterization has proven to be an important addition to the clinical assessment of critically ill patients. properly used, the procedure may provide hemodynamic information that is not apparent from physical examination or radiography. it may be safely accomplished through various venous routes, but care must be taken to avoid potential complications.
skeletal muscle depressed calcium and phosphofructokinase in chronic heart failure are upregulated by captopril--a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril, after treatment for 5-6 weeks with 25 mg t.i.d., were studied in 12 patients with stable moderate heart failure. five patients received placebo treatment, and the two groups were comparable at baseline. angiotensin ii levels decreased in response to captopril therapy. skeletal muscle potassium, magnesium and chloride levels did not differ from reference values. calcium was subnormal (p less than 0.0001), but increased to the reference range during captopril treatment. phosphofructokinase, a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme, was in the lower reference range and increased (p less than 0.04) in response to captopril therapy. in conclusion, stable moderate heart failure is associated with low levels of skeletal muscle calcium and phosphofructokinase activity, these metabolic changes tending to return to normal levels with captopril treatment.
colonic histoplasmosis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. report of two cases. colonic histoplasmosis is a rare entity. there have been four previous reported cases within the population of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. because of the increasing incidence of hiv infection within regions where histoplasmosis is endemic, this condition may become more common. gastrointestinal histoplasmosis has protean clinical manifestations, and symptoms are often nonspecific. any patient with hiv infection who has unexplained gi symptoms should undergo evaluation for possible histoplasmosis. aggressive long-term amphotericin b therapy has been effective in hiv patients with histoplasmosis. resection or diversion of symptomatic colonic strictures caused by histoplasmosis may be necessary in addition to medical therapy.
evaluation of ketotifen in corticosteroid-dependent idiopathic anaphylaxis. to study the possible efficacy of ketotifen (k) in the treatment of idiopathic anaphylaxis (ia), k was administered in an open-label trial to six patients with ia who required corticosteroids at doses below which their disease could not be controlled. during the study, patients continued to receive noncorticosteroid medications (eg, antihistamines, oral adrenergic agents) that had been used on a regular basis for treatment of ia before study, but periodic attempts to reduce corticosteroid doses were made. a reduction of prednisone dose with continued control of disease was judged to be evidence for a beneficial effect of k. after 7 to 16 months of k administration, three patients were judged to have had probable benefits from k (reductions in alternate day prednisone dose requirement from 40 mg to none, 35 mg to 15 mg, and 30 mg to none), and one patient had a possible benefit from k (dose reduction from 100 to 120 mg to 77 mg). two other patients were unable to tolerate major decreases in prednisone without developing symptoms or signs of ia. within the limitations of this study design, we conclude that k may be efficacious in the treatment of some patients with ia, and that further trials of k in the treatment of ia are indicated.
long-term follow-up of cemented total hip arthroplasty in rheumatoid arthritis. seventy-five primary cemented total hip arthroplasties (thas) were performed in 53 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. all patients were followed for an average of 7.4 years, unless their prosthetic hips failed before that time. clinical evaluation was based on a 10-point maximum rating scale, and ratings for pain, walking, function, and activity improved from preoperative values to the most recent follow-up examination. revision tha was performed for aseptic acetabular loosening in four hips, and femoral loosening in one hip. sepsis occurred in another four hips. complications of wound healing occurred in 14 hips. roentgenographic evidence of loosening was seen in six acetabular components, in three femoral components, and in the femoral and acetabular component of one hip; none of these hips have as yet required revision tha. the kaplan-meier survivorship analysis revealed a 93% survival probability at seven years, which fell to 77% at 12 years in these patients. a trend was that younger, larger patients had increased failure and component loosening rates. cemented primary tha has been a satisfactory operation in the rheumatoid patient. the relatively high rate of wound healing problems and sepsis may be due to the systemic immune nature of rheumatoid arthritis; however, 25% of these prosthetic hips either failed or are at risk for future failure. thus, improved techniques are still necessary to increase the long-term success of tha in the rheumatoid patient.
psychological characteristics of children with shwachman syndrome. twelve children and young adults with shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability, motor skills, and behaviour. there were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with shwachman syndrome and the other two groups. four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range. the differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant, though those with shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores. there was no evidence that those with shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects. we suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth.
genetic differences in susceptibility to glomerular sclerosis: a role for lipids? to better understand the pathogenesis of focal and segmental glomerular hyalinosis and sclerosis (fsghs), a variety of animal models have been developed--mainly in rats--that allow a comprehensive study of all variables involved, such as hemodynamic, genetic, and metabolic factors. in this article, we briefly review the role of lipids in the pathogenesis of fsghs and provide evidence that "atherosclerosis of the glomerular mesangium" contributes to the ultimate histopathologic lesion of fsghs in susceptible rat strains. observations in a fsghs-resistant strain revealed several characteristic features that may protect these rats against chronic renal disease such as high nephron numbers, glomerular visceral epithelial cells with a remarkable resistance to toxic injury, minimal sequestration of serum proteins and cholesterol from the circulation into the mesangium, and a remarkable lipoprotein profile in normal as well as nephrotic states with a very low cholesterol content of the very-low-density and low-density lipoprotein fractions. recent clinicopathologic studies also indicate a correlation between hyperlipidemia and the progression of renal disease. the concept of lipid-mediated glomerular injury warrants further study.
noninvasive trigeminal evoked potentials: normative data and application to neuralgia patients. a mild electric shock applied to the lower lip was used to elicit reliable evoked potentials from the trigeminal nerve in 20 normal young adults. the wave forms were morphologically similar to those observed with invasive procedures. no substantial differences for either the right or left side of stimulation, recording electrode, or subject sex were obtained for any of the individual potential amplitudes or latencies. the same procedures were applied to 10 patients who had been treated with retrogasserian glycerol injections for trigeminal neuralgia. trigeminal evoked potentials were elicited in all patients, although the quality of the individual wave forms was more variable than that observed for the normal subjects. comparison of the treated with the unaffected face side in the patients demonstrated significantly smaller n2-p2 amplitudes and longer n2 latencies for the affected face side. the results suggest that these procedures produce reliable evoked potential measures of trigeminal nerve function noninvasively which can provide an objective index of treatment efficacy.
biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. virtually all cases of childhood all have chromosomal abnormalities and half contain translocations, which are nearly equally divided between random and nonrandom rearrangements. nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities have been correlated with leukemic cell lineage, the degree of cell differentiation, and the specific gene involved at the molecular level. many cytogenetic findings have prognostic significance; however, the adverse influence of certain changes, including most chromosomal translocations, may in fact be offset by the greater cytoreductive effects of intensified therapy. table 4 summarizes the relation of selected karyotypic findings to treatment outcome in patients treated on contemporary protocols. among all of the chromosomal abnormalities identified in childhood all, hyperdiploidy greater than 50 has been associated with the most favorable prognosis. at the opposite end of the spectrum, the treatment outcome for patients with classical ph+ or hypodiploid all is very poor even in programs of intensive chemotherapy; alternative treatment such as bone marrow transplantation should be considered for such patients. cases with the t(4;11)(q21;q23) also have a very poor clinical outcome, but the adverse prognosis may be limited to the infant or adolescent age groups. the prognostic significance of other nonrandom translocations, such as t(1;19)(q23;p13) and several other abnormalities, needs to be further assessed in larger numbers of patients. finally, as more is learned about the molecular pathology underlying these rearrangements, it may be possible to develop new therapeutic agents that are specifically targeted to interfere with the aberrant gene products expressed by human leukemic cells.
myocarditis simulating acute transmural myocardial infarction. a patient with cardiogenic shock had typical electrocardiographic findings of acute anterior transmural myocardial infarction. cardiac catheterization revealed normal coronary arteries and severe biventricular failure. postmortem examination confirmed normal coronary arteries; acute myocarditis, but no evidence for infarction, was found. electrocardiographic changes of myocarditis may be indistinguishable from acute transmural infarction. in suspected cases, cardiac catheterization should be considered prior to thrombolytic therapy.
epidemiologic features of asymptomatic cerebral infarction in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. we performed unenhanced computed tomographic scans on 141 asymptomatic patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. thirty-six patients (26%) had hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction. the majority of these were small deep infarcts, seen in 29 patients (21%), but 13 patients (9%) had cortical or large deep infarctions. twelve patients had more than one infarct on computed tomographic scan. increasing age and increased left atrial diameter were the only clinical features associated with asymptomatic infarction. patients older than 65 years with a left atrial diameter greater than 5.0 cm (n = 23) had a 52% prevalence of asymptomatic infarction. patients younger than 65 years with a left atrial diameter less than 5.0 cm (n = 38) had an 11% prevalence of silent infarction. patients with only one of these risk factors (n = 72) had a 24% prevalence of silent infarction. infarction was more common in those with chronic (34%) as opposed to intermittent (22%) nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but this difference was not significant. hypertension, diabetes, duration of atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, history of myocardial infarction, and echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction were not associated with asymptomatic infarction. a history of hypertension was present in only 35% of our patients with small-deep asymptomatic infarction, similar to the percentage in patients without stroke. asymptomatic cerebral infarction is common in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. the association with enlarged left atria and the lack of correlation with major cerebrovascular risk factors suggests a cardioembolic mechanism. further study is needed to determine the functional and prognostic significance of these strokes.
the j-curve phenomenon and the treatment of hypertension. is there a point beyond which pressure reduction is dangerous? we critically appraised the medical literature to evaluate whether there is a point beyond which blood pressure reduction in hypertensive subjects is no longer beneficial and possibly even deleterious. thirteen studies that stratified cardiovascular outcomes by level of achieved blood pressure in treated hypertensive subjects who had been followed up for at least 1 year were critiqued by four independent reviewers. data addressing population, protocol, and methodological characteristics were evaluated. studies did not show a consistent j-shaped relationship between treated blood pressure and stroke, but they did demonstrate a consistent j-shaped relationship for cardiac events and diastolic blood pressure. the beneficial therapeutic threshold point was 85 mm hg. we conclude that low treated diastolic blood pressure levels, ie, below 85 mm hg, are associated with increased risk of cardiac events.
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators. a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described, and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported. nine patients use their implants for micturition, and seven are fully continent. the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed.
screening 1140 fifth graders for hypercholesterolemia: family history inadequate to predict results cholesterol screening was performed on 1140 fifth-grade students in scottsdale, az, as part of a school-affiliated, health-education program. the goals were to determine whether family history of heart disease or high cholesterol can predict which children have high cholesterol levels and to examine the feasibility of screening large numbers of elementary school students. among the children studied, the mean cholesterol level was 168.3 mg/dl (4.35 mmol/l), and 13 percent had cholesterol levels above 200 mg/dl (5.20 mmol/l). fifty-four percent had a family member with high cholesterol or a heart attack before age 60 years, but 36 percent of the students with cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dl (5.20 mmol/l) had a negative family history. family history was neither sensitive nor specific as a predictor of elevated cholesterol levels (sensitivity 0.64, specificity 0.47, and positive predictive value 0.16 for predicting cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dl [5.20 mmol/l]). large numbers of children were screened safely and efficiently with good student and parental cooperation. results of this study do not support the current recommendations to screen children for hypercholesterolemia based upon their family histories.
body mass index and prognosis in elderly hypertensive patients: a report from the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly. obesity and hypertension are often found in the same patients, particularly in elderly women. however, few data on the joint impact of these two conditions in women and the elderly are available. in the current study of 800 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to active treatment or placebo, the initial mean body mass index (bmi) was 26.7 kg/m2 in 560 women and 25.7 kg/m2 in 240 men. during the trial, total mortality and cardiovascular and noncardiovascular terminating events were highest in the patients at the leanest bmi quintile. the association between bmi and cardiovascular end points was u-shaped, whereas noncardiovascular mortality decreased with increasing bmi. the results in the women were similar to those in the total group. the u-shaped relation was confirmed with cox's proportional hazards model, controlling for age, gender, systolic blood pressure, hemoglobin, serum cholesterol, blood glucose, and cardiovascular complications at entry. the bmi level with the lowest risk was 28 to 29 kg/m2 for total mortality and cardiovascular terminating events, 26 to 27 kg/m2 for cardiovascular mortality, and 31 to 32 kg/m2 for noncardiovascular mortality. bmi did not modify the favorable effects of drug treatment. there was no evidence that obesity would protect elderly hypertensive men or women from cardiovascular complications.
initial management of trauma. the first 5 minutes. trauma is the leading cause of death in young americans and is responsible for the loss of more productive years of life than heart disease and cancer combined. initial management of trauma consists of the establishment or maintenance of a patent airway, ensurance of adequate breathing, and resuscitation of the circulation. all of these are accomplished simultaneously with a cursory survey to identify immediately life-threatening injuries and to prevent permanent disability.
using a state cancer registry to increase screening behaviors of sisters and daughters of breast cancer patients. the pennsylvania cancer registry was used to contact breast cancer patients and, through them, their adult sisters and daughters. the sisters and daughters were counseled concerning their higher than average risks for breast cancer and their need for mammography and breast self-examination. results showed a 9 percent increase in mammography and a 10 percent increase in breast self-examination rates for the counseled over control group. costs were $49 per counseled sister or daughter indicating a need to increase cost effectiveness before implementation is practical.
the endophthalmitis vitrectomy study [editorial] endophthalmitis after cataract surgery can be a disastrous complication that may result in functional loss of an eye. all patients with this problem should receive direct injection of intravitreal antibiotics. the roles of initial vitrectomy and of intravenous antibiotics in treating this condition are controversial. through a prospective, randomized, clinical trial, these issues can be assessed. we encourage ophthalmologists close to each clinical center to refer patients with postoperative endophthalmitis to these clinics. questions concerning the endophthalmitis vitrectomy study can be addressed to the principal investigator at the nearest clinical trial center.
gallstone pancreatitis. gallstone pancreatitis is caused by transient obstruction of the ampulla of vater by a migrating gallstone. intraglandular activation of pancreatic enzymes occurs (by an unclear mechanism), and their entry into the circulation causes most of the local and systemic events of pancreatitis. the diagnosis is based on history and physical examination, an elevation of serum amylase above 1000 iu/l, and ultrasound and ct scans. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be used in less certain cases to confirm the presence of common bile duct stones. because of the absence of an agent that can abort progression of the disease, therapy should consist of adequate resuscitation, nutritional support, and careful monitoring to detect early complications. in patients with mild pancreatitis, surgery usually can be performed within 48 or 72 hours of admission or as soon as symptoms and amylase levels return to normal. for patients with severe disease, endoscopic sphincterotomy is emerging as the therapeutic modality of choice. elective treatment of the associated biliary disease should be performed during the same hospitalization after the acute phase of the disease has subsided.
assessment of functional gastrointestinal disease: the bowel disease questionnaire. a need exists for a self-report questionnaire that reliably and accurately measures symptoms and that distinguishes patients with functional gastrointestinal disease from those with other conditions. we have developed such an instrument, the bowel disease questionnaire, and herein describe details of its discriminatory validity. data from 399 subjects were analyzed. patients with gastrointestinal symptoms were ultimately diagnosed as having functional gastrointestinal disease (82 with the irritable bowel syndrome and 33 with functional dyspepsia) or organic gastrointestinal disease (n = 101). there were 145 healthy control subjects and 38 patients with a psychiatric disease, somatoform disorder (which includes those with a diagnosis of hypochrondriasis, psychogenic pain, and somatization or conversion disorder). all subjects completed the questionnaire before undergoing an independent diagnostic assessment by experienced physicians. functional gastrointestinal disease could be distinguished from organic disease, somatoform disorder, and health by using models derived from logistic discriminant analysis. with use of these models, the estimated probability of functional gastrointestinal disease was then calculated. descriptive symptom scores were of less value than the scores derived from the data sets by logistic discriminant analysis. age did not significantly affect the responses to the questionnaire items. we conclude that, in the population studied, the bowel disease questionnaire is a valid measure of symptoms of functional gastrointestinal disease, and this instrument may have clinical and research applications.
complications associated with needle localization biopsy of the breast. a review of 144 consecutive needle localization biopsies of the breast (nlbb) was performed to assess complications associated with this procedure. thirty-four complications occurred in 27 patients. there were 11 wound infections associated with nlbb. during this time period, there were 1,583 clean general surgical operations performed, other than biopsy of the breast, yielding an over-all wound infection rate of 1.2 per cent (p less than 0.001). a trend was noted, suggesting that use of drains may have contributed to wound infection versus no drainage (25 versus 5 per cent, respectively). electrocautery burns requiring local wound care occurred during seven biopsies and four of these patients subsequently had a wound infection develop. four lesions required more than one excision to remove the abnormal mammary tissue, and in four, there was a failure to remove the lesion at the first operation. fifty-three localization procedures were performed using methylene blue. in this group, only one patient required more than one biopsy to remove the abnormal mammary tissue, and there were no failures with this technique. also, a smaller mean volume of tissue was removed in this group versus the standard nlbb (30.2 +/- 3.0 versus 53.3 +/- 4.6 cubic millimeters, respectively) (p less than 0.01). four cardiovascular complications occurred, requiring overnight admission. all of these patients were more than 65 years old and had the procedure performed while under general anesthesia. patient age, type of anesthesia, resident versus attending surgeon and length of procedure had no independent effect on local complication rate.
cardiac risk in vascular surgery. the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test. the value of the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test in identifying patients at high risk of myocardial infarction after vascular procedures has not been documented. we studied prospectively 46 patients who underwent an oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test before undergoing vascular operations. twenty patients (43%) had a positive test result, defined by a thallium defect with reperfusion, while 26 patients had a negative test result. myocardial infarctions were documented postoperatively in 5 (25%) of 20 of the group with positive results and 1 (4%) of 26 of the group with negative results. three of the six myocardial infarctions were clinical; all three were in the group with positive results. no correlation was identified between dipyridamole-thallium stress test results and clinical cardiac history. a positive dipyridamole-thallium stress test result is a more sensitive predictor of postoperative myocardial infarction than ejection fraction or history of coronary artery disease. the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test is as useful as the intravenous test in this setting.
the transcriptional transactivator of human foamy virus maps to the bel 1 genomic region. the human foamy virus (hfv) genome possesses three open reading frames (bel 1, 2, and 3) located between env and the 3' long terminal repeat. by analogy to other human retroviruses this region was selected as the most likely candidate to encode the viral transactivator. results presented here confirmed this and showed further that a deletion introduced only into the bel 1 open reading frame of a plasmid derived from an infectious molecular clone of hfv abolished transactivation. in contrast, deletions in bel 2 and bel 3 had only minor effects on the ability to transactivate. the role of the bel 1 genomic region as a transactivator was further investigated by eukaryotic expression of a genome fragment of hfv spanning the bel 1 open reading frame. a construct expressing bel 1 under control of a heterologous promoter was found to transactivate the hfv long terminal repeat in a dose-dependent fashion. furthermore, it is shown that the u3 region of the hfv long terminal repeat is sufficient to respond to the hfv transactivator.
intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin for patients with high-risk superficial bladder cancer. intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg) was employed in the treatment of 55 patients with aggressive superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (cta, ct1, ctis). all of the patients had a previous history of recurrent superficial disease, and 41 (75%) were treatment failures following other intravesical therapy. thirty-six (66%) patients responded to treatment, and 19 (34%) were treatment failures. twenty-seven (66%) of 41 patients with cta-ct1 tumors and 9 (64%) of 14 patients with ctis responded, with a mean follow-up period of 30.5 months. disease progression was noted in 8 (15%) of the patients and muscle invasive disease in 6. patients with a history of three or more previous events of tumor recurrence, positive urinary cytology, and multicentric disease, all fared worse than patients without these characteristics (p less than 0.05). bcg is an effective agent in controlling superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, even in a high-risk group of patients who failed previous intravesical therapy. bcg should be employed in this group of patients prior to radical surgery.
demonstration of the genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome of testicular germ cell tumors and identification of further chromosome 12 aberrations by competitive in situ hybridization. the recently developed competitive in situ hybridization (cish) strategy was applied to the analysis of chromosome 12 aberrations in testicular germ cell tumors (tgcts). dnas from two rodent-human somatic cell hybrids, containing either a normal chromosome 12 or the p arm of chromosome 12 as their unique human material, were used as probes. our results demonstrate a genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome in tgcts. moreover, variant markers were identified representing translocation products that also involve chromosome 12.
esophageal verrucous carcinoma: histologically a low-grade malignancy but clinically a fatal disease. a 76-year-old woman had a verrucous carcinoma of the esophagus with a fistula of the left main bronchus. we discuss this case together with those of eleven other patients with verrucous carcinoma of the esophagus reported previously. differentiation between this tumor and squamous cell papilloma is often difficult. the central cores of fibrous tissue in verrucous carcinoma are heavily infiltrated with inflammatory cells, which accounts for the stenosis often found. the mortality in verrucous carcinoma of the esophagus is 67% even though histologically it is a low-grade malignancy.
surgery for sinusitis and aspirin triad. an 11-year retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the surgical treatment of sinusitis in aspirin-triad patients. twenty-five patients were selected for surgery when their sinus disease and asthma progressed despite intense medical treatment. sixteen patients had radiographic evidence of severe ethmoid disease, and their initial surgical procedures were limited (i.e., bilateral intranasal ethmoidectomies). of these 16 patients, 6 required subsequent surgery for recurrent sinusitis. nine of the 25 patients had radiographic evidence of severe antral, as well as ethmoid, disease. their initial surgical procedures were radical, i.e., bilateral caldwell-luc operations with intranasal and transantral sphenoethmoidectomies. none of these 9 patients required further surgical treatment for control. this review indicates that if antral and sphenoid disease are detected in association with ethmoid involvement, a radical surgical approach is the operation of choice.
hypergastrinemia, gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia, and intractable diarrhea. a patient with pernicious anemia developed severe intractable diarrhea night and day. investigation revealed chronic atrophic gastritis and a markedly elevated level of serum gastrin. no obvious explantation for the diarrhea was found, but after antrectomy, the gastrin level returned to normal and the diarrhea subsided. possible mechanisms for an association between diarrhea and hypergastrinemia include colonic hypermotility secondary to release of acetylcholine and inhibition of fluid and electrolyte reabsorption within the small bowel.
aggressive surgical intervention in n2 non-small cell cancer of the lung. an aggressive attitude toward surgical treatment was taken in patients with n2 non-small cell lung cancer in the past 10 years. computed tomographic scanning was employed in the diagnosis of n2 disease, and had a true-positive rate of 57%. among patients with n2 disease detected by computed tomographic scanning, surgical intervention was attempted except for those with unresectable disease. of 190 patients with clinical n2 disease, 115 underwent surgical exploration: 9 patients had only an exploratory thoracotomy, 53 patients underwent a curative operation, and 53 had a noncurative operation. the overall 5-year survival rate of these patients was 16% and that of curatively resected patients was 20%. there were 47 patients whose n2 disease was not recognized before operation. the 5-year survival rate of this group was 20% overall and 33% in curatively resected cases. the overall 5-year survival rate of patients with n2 disease who underwent resection (106 with clinical n2 disease and 47 with clinically unrecognized n2 disease) was 17%, and that of the 84 patients undergoing curative operations was 24%. an aggressive attitude toward surgical intervention can be advocated for patients with n2 disease on the basis of our present results.
sternocleidomastoid muscle transfer and superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication in the prevention of frey's syndrome parotidectomy may be associated with a significant depression in the retromandibular region and a significant incidence of gustatory sweating (frey's syndrome). superiorly and inferiorly based sternocleidomastoid flaps and posterior plication of the superficial musculoaponeurotic system were evaluated for their ability to ameliorate both consequences. sixteen patients with sternocleidomastoid flaps and 16 patients with superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication were compared to a control group of 104 patients. the incidence of frey's syndrome was 47.1% in the control group, 12.5% (p = 0.025) in the sternocleidomastoid flap group, and 0% (p = 0.005) in the superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication group. the surgical techniques are described. the prevalence of frey's syndrome is discussed with respect to age, sex, radiation therapy, and the type of parotidectomy performed. the indications and contraindications of the three surgical techniques are described.
local recurrence following abdominoperineal excision and anterior resection for rectal carcinoma. the aim of this retrospective study is to compare the outcome of abdominoperineal excision (ape) and anterior resection (ar) for rectal cancer in terms of local tumor recurrence. a further comparison has been carried out between hand-sewn and stapled anastomosis; 147 patients have been followed for at least 2 years: 69 after ape and 78 after ar, 40 being stapled. the following variables potentially related to the risk of recurrence were evaluated: age, grading, staging, and site of the tumor. an overall 2-year local recurrence rate of 11 percent after ape and 12 percent after ar was observed, whereas it was 13 and 11 percent following stapled and hand-sewn sutures, respectively. both differences were not statistically significant. a similar local recurrence rate was noted after ape and ar when the patients were matched for dukes' stage and grading of the lesion. a trend toward an increased risk of recurrence following ar (p = 0.07) was shown when comparing the two procedures if mid and upper rectal cancers were grouped together. in the patients with anastomotic leaks after ar, no increase of local recurrence was observed. in conclusion, ar is unlikely to be followed by an increased risk of local recurrence and, therefore, when oncologically indicated, may be considered the operation of choice in the treatment of rectal cancer, although the possible risk of its overuse should be taken into account.
pathologic involvement of the left ventricle in chronic cor pulmonale. to determine whether or not the left ventricle is pathologically involved in patients with chronic cor pulmonale, right and left ventricular weights, wall thickness, myocyte diameters, and percentage of fibrosis in 18 autopsied hearts were examined in patients with chronic pulmonary disease (cpd); ten had right ventricular hypertrophy on their electrocardiograms, and eight were without right ventricular hypertrophy. five with extracardiopulmonary disease were used as controls. the weight of the right ventricle was significantly increased in cpd when compared to control subjects. walls of both ventricles were significantly thicker in cpd. myocyte diameters of both ventricles were significantly greater in cpd. the percentage of fibrosis in the right ventricle was significantly greater in cpd. the percentage of fibrosis in the left ventricle was significantly greater only in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy. we concluded that the left ventricle was also involved pathologically in patients with chronic cor pulmonale in the end stage of the disease.
prostaglandin f1 alpha levels during and after neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. infants receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy undergo long-term cardiopulmonary bypass, are systemically heparinized, and frequently receive platelet transfusions. prostacyclin is a powerful inhibitor of platelet aggregation as well as a potent vasodilator. the levels of its stable metabolite prostaglandin f1 alpha increase significantly in children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass during heart operations but decrease to preoperative levels after bypass. to determine the effect of long-term bypass on prostacyclin levels, multiple plasma samples were analyzed in 10 human neonates both during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy and within 24 hours after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. prostaglandin f1 alpha, the stable metabolite of prostacyclin, was quantitated by radioimmunoassay in picograms per milliliter. prostaglandin f1 alpha levels were elevated while the patients received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy but decreased with duration of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. in most infants, prostaglandin f1 alpha levels rose again during weaning from extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and remained elevated for 24 hours after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. extracorporeal membrane oxygenation course influenced circulating prostaglandin f1 alpha levels. fluctuating prostaglandin f1 alpha levels are of clinical significance in the management of vasomotor tone and platelet function, common problems in the care and the prevention of hemorrhage in these critically ill infants.
a rodent model of cirrhosis, ascites, and bacterial peritonitis. we sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop. of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity, 38 (92.7%) developed cirrhosis with ascites. of these 38, 21 (55.3%) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization. no surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat; therefore, the infections were presumed to be "spontaneous." eight (50%) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism. escherichia coli and proteus sp. were the organisms most commonly isolated. this rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans. this model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis.
acute eosinophilic pulmonary disease associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products. a series of four patients with pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusions, hypoxemia, peripheral eosinophilia, and symptoms of dyspnea, fatigue, and weakness is reported. lung tissue obtained in three patients revealed interstitial pneumonitis, small-to-medium-vessel mixed-cell vasculitis, and alveolar exudate of histiocytes and eosinophils. all patients reported ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products at a time when an association between l-tryptophan and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome was established. this clinical pattern of pulmonary involvement may be part of the continuum of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. the pathophysiology of this syndrome and the relationship with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products have not yet been identified.
prevalence and correlates of increased lung/heart ratio of thallium-201 during dipyridamole stress imaging for suspected coronary artery disease. there is little information concerning the prevalence and clinical correlates of increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake during dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging. accordingly, the clinical characteristics and quantitative thallium-201 findings were correlated with quantitative lung/heart thallium-201 ratio in 87 patients undergoing dipyridamole thallium-201 stress testing. nineteen patients (22%) had an elevated ratio (greater than 0.51). these patients were more likely to have had an infarction, to be taking beta blockers, and have a lower rate-pressure product after dipyridamole administration than those with a normal ratio (p less than 0.03). an elevated ratio was associated with a greater likelihood of initial, redistribution and persistent defects, as well as left ventricular cavity dilatation on thallium-201 imaging (p less than 0.05). in addition, the number of myocardial segments demonstrating initial, redistribution and persistent defects was also greater in patients with increased ratios (p less than 0.03). multivariate analysis demonstrated that the presence of redistribution and left ventricular cavity dilatation were the most significant correlates of lung/heart thallium-201 ratio. it is concluded that the prevalence of increased lung/heart thallium-201 ratio with dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging is similar to that seen with exercise stress imaging. as with exercise thallium-201 imaging, increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake may be a marker of functionally more significant coronary artery disease.
propagation of deep venous thrombosis identified by duplex ultrasonography. to investigate the efficacy of anticoagulation in preventing continuing thrombosis, we prospectively evaluated 24 patients with acute deep venous thrombosis using duplex ultrasonography. all patients were hospitalized with conclusive ultrasonic evidence of deep venous thrombosis identified in one of four levels: i, calf only; ii, calf-popliteal; iii, calf-popliteal-femoral; or iv, calf-popliteal-femoral-iliac. duplex scans were obtained on admission and on three subsequent occasions during therapy. progression of thrombosis was defined as advancement of thrombus to the more proximal venous level. demographic data, symptoms, risk factors for deep venous thrombosis, physical findings, anticoagulation regimens, and hematologic variables were ascertained. adequacy of anticoagulation was defined as elevation of baseline activated partial thromboplastin time by 150%. nine patients (38%) had progression of thrombosis, and 15 (62%) had stable or improving duplex scans. progression occurred as follows: i----ii (2), i----iii (2), ii----iii (1), and iii----iv (4). of the demographic and clinical variables examined, only smoking correlated with progression of thrombus (p = 0.04). average heparin dose in the stable group was 1214 +/- 294 units/hr and 1122 +/- 248 units/hr in the group that progressed (p = 0.8): activated partial thromboplastin time was 45.6 +/- 7 seconds in the stable group and 49.8 +/- 9 seconds in the progression group (p = 0.7). nine patients in the stable group had consistently adequate anticoagulation, whereas six did not; six in the progression group were consistently anticoagulated, and three were not. two patients (one with stable thrombus and one with progressive thrombus) suffered nonfatal pulmonary emboli. clot progression as determined by duplex scanning did not predict acute complications of deep venous thrombosis.
split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele defect: a subset at risk for late ulceration. the appropriate method and timing of the management of the myelomeningocele defect have prompted considerable discussion. use of split-thickness skin grafts acutely has accomplished wound closure with low morbidity and mortality. this study was designed to address the question of long-term suitability of the technique of split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele patient. the incidence of late and/or severe skin ulceration and the presence of gibbus deformity were correlated with the method of skin closure. long-term follow-up revealed a higher incidence of chronic skin ulceration in the split-thickness skin graft group as compared with the primary closure group. all skin breakdowns appeared in the presence of a gibbus deformity, and gibbus deformity was more prevalent in the split-thickness skin graft group. the incidence of skin ulceration and gibbus deformity was site-dependent. a thoracic or thoracolumbar myelomeningocele repair with split-thickness skin graft was significantly more likely to be complicated by skin problems than the defect in the lumbar, lumbosacral, or sacral region. this relationship was secondary to the frequency of gibbus deformity in the more cephalad defects than defects caudad. a treatment plan is outlined that is based on the primary variable of the location of the myelomeningocele and secondarily by defect size.
high signal intensity in mr images of calcified brain tissue. calcified lesions of the brain occasionally appear bright on t1-weighted mr images. this report shows that particulate calcium can reduce t1 relaxation times by a surface relaxation mechanism. calcium particles with greater surface area show greater t1 relaxivity. reduced proton density and reduced t2 tend to diminish signal intensity, but reduced t1 increases signal intensity. thus, for concentrations of calcium particulate of up to 30% by weight, the signal intensity on standard t1-weighted images increases but subsequently decreases.
foreign bodies in the throat: a prospective study of 388 cases. we present the results of a prospective study of 388 patients presenting with a history of swallowing a foreign body. we indicate whether the patients' symptoms and signs were associated with a retained foreign body. while tenderness on palpation was an unreliable sign, pooling at indirect laryngoscopy invariably predicted a retained object. in many patients, initial careful examination of the oropharynx by casualty officers would have shown a retained fishbone in the tonsil or tongue and would have resulted in 16 per cent fewer radiographs and 17 per cent fewer referrals to the ent department. radiography only improved management in a small minority and 35 per cent of films were interpreted incorrectly by casualty officers. a follow-up barium swallow disclosed a pathological lesion in a significant proportion of patients with bolus obstruction, whether or not this was passed spontaneously.
comparison of cefuroxime axetil, cefaclor, and amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium suspensions in acute otitis media in infants and children. in this randomized, blinded, multicenter comparison study, 377 infants and children with acute otitis media (aom) received a 10-day course of an oral suspension of one of the following: cefuroxime axetil (cae), 30 mg/kg/day; cefaclor (cec), 40 mg/kg/day; or amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium (amx-cl), 40 mg/kg/day. clinical efficacy was determined by pneumatic otoscopy and tympanometric testing 3 to 5, 11 to 14, and 22 to 26 days after the initiation of therapy. there was a statistically significant difference among the three treatment groups with respect to clinical outcome; more patients in the cae group (62%) than in the cec group (46%) or the amx-cl group (52%) had complete resolution of signs and symptoms of aom (including effusion). paired comparisons revealed a significant difference in efficacy between cae and cec and a nearly significant difference between amx-cl and cec. taste acceptability was highest for cec and lowest for this formulation of cae. significantly more patients in the amx-cl group than in the cae or cec group had a side effect, primarily diarrhea, vomiting, or diaper rash. we conclude that cae suspension has greater clinical efficacy than cec and fewer side effects than amx-cl.
granulomatous vasculitis in crohn's disease [published erratum appears in gastroenterology 1991 aug;101(2):595] this study investigated a possible vascular origin for granulomas in crohn's disease. twenty-four consecutive resected specimens of small and large intestinal crohn's disease were preserved by arterial perfusion-fixation with 10% formol saline, at mean arterial pressure (100 mm hg). fifteen specimens contained granulomas on routine examination of h&e-stained sections. these 15 specimens were examined in detail using a range of immunohistochemical staining techniques to identify vascular structures and granulomas. a total of 485 granulomas were found, 85% of which were identified as being directly involved in vascular injury. the majority (77%) of granulomas were deep to the mucosa; they were found most frequently in the submucosa (42%). the techniques used in this study enhanced the recognition of granulomatous vasculitis. the results suggest that the majority of granulomas in crohn's disease form within walls of blood vessels. vascular localization of granulomatous inflammation suggests that the intestinal microvasculature contains an early element in the pathogenesis of crohn's disease.
usefulness of combined propranolol and verapamil for evaluation of surgical ablation of accessory atrioventricular connections in patients without structural heart disease. successful surgical ablation of atrioventricular (av) accessory connections may be confirmed during postoperative electrophysiologic testing by the absence of accessory connection conduction in both the anterograde and retrograde directions. whereas the former may be readily apparent by examination of the surface electrocardiogram during sinus rhythm or atrial pacing, assessment of the latter may be complicated by the frequent presence of enhanced retrograde av nodal conduction in the postoperative period. consequently, availability of interventions that selectively affect av nodal conduction and refractoriness without concomitant effects on accessory connections may be helpful for assessing the success of the surgical procedure. in this study the effects of combined propranolol and verapamil administration on electrophysiologic properties of the av node and the accessory av connection were assessed both pre- and postoperatively in 17 patients (12 men and 5 women, mean age 33 years) undergoing surgical ablation of accessory connections. preoperatively, electrophysiologic characteristics of all but 1 of the accessory av connections were unaffected by propranolol and verapamil administration. postoperatively, on the other hand, propranolol and verapamil significantly prolonged both the retrograde av node effective refractory period (baseline: 272 +/- 34 ms vs after drugs: 384 +/- 70 ms [p less than 0.0001]) and the shortest cycle length maintaining 1:1 ventriculoatrial conduction (baseline: 357 +/- 99 ms vs after drugs: 485 +/- 64 ms [p less than 0.0001]). late postoperative electrophysiologic evaluation (7 +/- 3 weeks) revealed no evidence of residual accessory av connection conduction, and all patients remain asymptomatic at 21 +/- 10 months follow-up.
local recurrence after curative resection of colorectal adenocarcinoma. a total of 853 patients with 861 colorectal adenocarcinomas were operated on at our institution between 1965 and 1981. complete follow-up information was obtained in all but six patients (99.4%), and all available histologic slides were reviewed to determine pathologic stage and characteristics. six hundred fifty-one patients (76.3%) underwent a potentially curative procedure, and their operative mortality rate was 2.8%. of the 627 patients available for analysis, 50 (8%) had a local recurrence. the median time to local recurrence was 18 months, and only 16% of local recurrences were diagnosed 5 years after the original resection. median survival of patients with a local recurrence was 3 1/2 years from the original resection, and 16 patients (32%) survived 5 years or longer. a multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted to examine the influence of several clinical and pathologic characteristics on local recurrence among dukes' stages b and c adenocarcinomas (n = 539) after exclusion of patients with synchronous tumors (n = 8), postoperative deaths (n = 18), loss to follow-up (n = 6), or incomplete data (n = 11). this analysis revealed that the local recurrence rate was significantly related to depth of invasion (b1 + c1 = 0%; b2 + c1 = 10%; p less than 0.01), site of origin (right plus transverse colon = 6%; left plus rectosigmoid colon = 10%; rectum = 12%; p less than 0.05), and lymphatic or capillary microinvasion (absent, 6%; present, 14%; p less than 0.05). this analysis attempts to identify patients at high risk for development of local recurrent disease to select candidates for postoperative adjuvant therapy.
cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia. in a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia, related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 (22%). in 27 cases (10%) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. hematomas, ecchymoses, petechiae, or purpura occurred in 24 (41%) of the 58 patients. fifteen patients (26%) had erythromelalgia, in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint. livedo reticularis, recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis, ischemic complications with gangrene, leg ulcers, or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations. urticaria occurred in two patients, and raynaud's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient. platelet function may be abnormal, and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied, 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation. knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection. prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events.
cardiac myosin-induced myocarditis. heart autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of the disease. we recently demonstrated that cardiac myosin is capable of inducing autoimmune myocarditis in genetically predisposed mice. this disease parallels coxsackievirus b3-induced autoimmune myocarditis in many respects and is associated with high-titer autoantibodies specific for cardiac myosin. the following lines of evidence suggest that these autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of autoimmune myocarditis: 1) immunoperoxidase staining of heart sections from cardiac myosin-immunized a/j and a.sw mice revealed igg depositions only along damaged muscle fibres in infiltrated areas, but not in intact tissue; 2) myosin autoantibodies did not bind to the surface of viable cardiac myocytes isolated from mice, but only reacted with myocytes permeabilized with detergent; 3) mice treated with a single high dose of cyclophosphamide, which reduces the humoral immune response, still developed severe myocarditis, despite the fact that their autoantibody titers were reduced to the level of adjuvant-injected controls; and 4) passive transfer of high-titer myosin autoantibodies failed to induce myocarditis, although the titers in the recipients were comparable to those found in mice with cardiac myosin-induced disease. together, the results suggest that high-titer myosin autoantibodies are secondary rather than primary to the disease.
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease. we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen. in addition to aseptic meningitis, both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs, ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other. the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed.
dilated cardiomyopathy associated with chlamydia trachomatis infection. a 26-year-old man was admitted to hospital with acute myocarditis complicated by congestive heart failure, and atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. detailed investigations to determine the aetiological factors involved yielded negative results, except for serological evidence of infection with chlamydia trachomatis. during the follow-up period, dilated cardiomyopathy developed. to the best of our knowledge a similar case has not been reported previously.
lobulated intradermal nevus. report of three cases. we report the cases of three patients with lobulated intradermal nevi. biopsy specimens showed similar findings, that is, fatty infiltration within nests of nevus cells, neuroid differentiation of nevus cells, and dermal fibrosis. our cases probably represent an unusual form of regressing melanocytic nevus.
colonic glycoproteins in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease. colonic glycoprotein composition was evaluated in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease using ion-exchange chromatography. fifty-three individuals, 12 pairs and 1 single twin with ulcerative colitis and 14 pairs with crohn's disease, were evaluated. seven twin pairs were concordant for the presence of ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease, whereas twin siblings of 10 ulcerative colitis probands and 9 crohn's disease probands were not known to have inflammatory bowel disease. content of one chromatographically defined component of colonic mucin, designated hcm species iv, was reduced in both patients with ulcerative colitis (1040 +/- 300 cpm/10,000 cpm total hcm) and their apparently healthy twins (1340 +/- 540 cpm/10,000 cpm total hcm) compared with control subjects (4030 +/- 1,000 cpm/10,000 cpm total hcm). composition of mucin in crohn's disease patients and their nonaffected twins was not significantly different than in controls. these observations suggest that altered profiles of mucin glycoprotein may be present before the onset of ulcerative colitis and may be genetically defined. conversely, it appears that alterations in glycoproteins only are not sufficient to initiate mucosal inflammation.
thermolabile methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase: an inherited risk factor for coronary artery disease. severe methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) deficiency with less than 2% of normal enzyme activity is characterized by neurological abnormalities, atherosclerotic changes, and thromboembolism. we have discovered a "new" variant of mthfr deficiency which is characterized by the absence of neurological abnormalities, an enzyme activity of about 50% of the normal value, and distinctive thermolability under specific conditions of heat inactivation. in this study, lymphocyte mthfr specific activities in the thermolabile variant and control groups were 5.58 +/- 0.91 and 10.33 +/- 2.89 nmol formaldehyde formed/mg protein/h, respectively. the difference was significant (p less than .01). however, there was overlap among the individual values from the two groups. on the other hand, residual mthfr activity after heat inactivation was 11.2 +/- 1.43% in the thermolabile variant and 36.3 +/- 5.18% in the controls. there was no overlap. enzyme studies in 10 subjects with thermolabile mthfr and their family members support the hypothesis that thermolabile mthfr is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. to elucidate the association of thermolabile mthfr with the development of coronary artery disease, we determined the thermostability of lymphocyte mthfr in 212 patients with proven coronary artery disease and in 202 controls without clinical evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease. thermolabile mthfr was found in 36 (17.0%) cardiac patients and 10 (5.0%) controls. the difference in incidence between the two groups was statistically significant (p less than .01). the average age at onset of clinical coronary artery disease in 36 patients with thermolabile mthfr was 57.3 +/- 7.6 years (35-72 years). the mean total plasma homocysteine concentration in patients with thermolabile mthfr was 13.19 +/- 5.32 nmol/ml and was significantly different from the normal mean of 8.50 +/- 2.80 nmol/ml (p less than .05). there was no association between thermolabile mthfr and other major risk factors. we conclude that thermolabile mthfr is a variant(s) of mthfr deficiency which is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. in addition, it is positively associated with the development of coronary artery disease. determination of in vitro thermostability of lymphocyte mthfr is a reliable method for identifying subjects with this abnormality.
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people. we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake, hypertension, and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage. we recorded ethanol consumption, history of hypertension, liver disease, cigarette smoking, and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age. in univariate matched analyses, the frequencies of high ethanol intake (p = 0.009), hypertension (p = 0.05), and coagulation disorder (p = 0.05) were higher in the cases than in the controls. after controlling for possible confounding factors, we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage (p = 0.02 and p = 0.05, respectively). the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes (p = 0.01), contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas (p = 0.009). we conclude that chronic, high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people.
proximal aortic dissection with cardiac tamponade. long-term survival without surgery. proximal aortic dissection in a 79-year-old woman was complicated by cardiac tamponade, aortic regurgitation, and pleural leak. following pericardiocentesis and control of her hypertension, she survived without an operation for more than four years.
tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitic disorders: a quantitative study of 18 biopsy cases. tubulointerstitial alterations were studied in 18 biopsy cases of systemic vasculitis. to evaluate the changes more objectively, two indexes, the number of interstitial inflammatory cells and tubulitis percentage, were used. the group means of both of these indexes were statistically higher than those of the autopsy control group, while 14 of the cases (77.8%) showed a significant difference (p less than 0.01) between individual means and the control group means. on the other hand, tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitis seemed to be less prominent than drug-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis (tin) according to these indexes. however, comparing these indexes with those of drug-induced tin, six cases (33.3%) of systemic angiitis could be regarded as having developed pathologic changes similar to tin. statistical difference was not shown in the indexes between those patients with histologic evidence of necrotizing angiitis and those without it. clinically, urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (nag) was abnormally high in all three examined cases, reflecting the damage of renal tubular epithelial cells. not only the vascular and glomerular lesions, but also tubulointerstitial changes, should be evaluated in the renal biopsy specimen of systemic vasculitis.
ventricular arrhythmias in hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy. relationship to coronary artery disease, left ventricular dysfunction, and myocardial fibrosis. ventricular arrhythmias occur with increased frequency in hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh). the relationships, however, between ventricular arrhythmias and coexistent coronary artery disease, left ventricular dysfunction and left ventricular fibrosis have not been examined in hypertensive lvh. we carried out coronary arteriography on fifteen hypertensive patients with lvh and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (greater than or equal to 3 consecutive ventricular complexes) of whom nine (60%) were free of significant (greater than 50% stenosis) coronary disease. to identify other possible correlates of left ventricular arrhythmias, 28 patients with lvh, comprising 17 with ventricular tachycardia and 11 without ventricular arrhythmias, underwent quantitative assessment of left ventricular function (angiographic ejection fraction), left ventricular mass (echocardiography), and left ventricular fibrosis (endomyocardial biopsy). ejection fraction was not significantly different between the two groups (53 +/- 8% v 62 +/- 2%, p = ns). however, left ventricular mass was significantly greater (442 +/- 28 g v 339 +/- 34 g, p less than .05) and percentage fibrosis significantly higher (19 +/- 4% v 3 +/- 1%, p less than .001) in those patients with ventricular tachycardia. thus ventricular arrhythmias in hypertensive patients with lvh cannot be entirely attributed to coexistent coronary disease, nor to left ventricular dysfunction, but are related to the degree of cardiac hypertrophy and subendocardial fibrosis.
effect of splenectomy on morbidity and survival following curative gastrectomy for carcinoma. we performed a retrospective analysis of 392 patients who underwent curative resection of gastric adenocarcinoma to evaluate the impact of splenectomy on survival from gastric cancer and postoperative morbidity. twelve factors, including splenectomy, were associated with a poor prognosis by univariate analysis. multivariate analysis identified six of these factors, but not splenectomy, as independently predictive of death due to gastric cancer. the apparent adverse effect of splenectomy was due to its association with other significant risk factors. postoperative complications occurred more commonly in patients who underwent splenectomy than in those who did not (45% vs 21%); patients in the splenectomy group also had a higher percentage of infectious complications than those in the nonsplenectomy group (75% vs 47%). we conclude that splenectomy has no direct influence on survival, but that it increases the morbidity of curative gastrectomy and should be avoided unless the spleen is close to or invaded by the tumor.
sickle cell trait revisited. variability in the clinical severity of sickle cell diseases is often genetically determined. coexistent alpha-thalassemia decreases some, but not all, associated morbid complications. polymorphisms within the beta-globin-like gene cluster influence disease severity by varying gamma-gene expression and the amount of hb f within the cells. few persons with the sickle cell trait experience adverse consequences attributable to the beta s gene. is this also due to genetic factors? a literature search failed to answer this question. it is intriguing, however, that reported associations of sickle cell trait and splenic infarction have occurred exclusively in males and mostly in whites. plausible but scanty data suggest that splenic infarction, hematuria, and reduced renal concentrating ability may be associated with higher amounts of hb s. therefore, alpha-thalassemia may be protective. no evidence was found that the amount of hb s influenced the incidence of sudden death after exertion or that increased amounts of hb f accounted for protection against any complications. more detailed reporting of biochemical and genetic evaluations of persons with sickle cell trait who experience related clinical events may lead to a better understanding of risks in subpopulations of persons carrying a single beta s gene.
pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis: diagnosis with ca 19-9 assessment, us, ct, and ct-guided fine-needle biopsy. the authors prospectively performed serum ca 19-9 assessment, ultrasound (us), computed tomography (ct), and ct-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm. the final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients. ca 19-9 assessment, us, ct, and fnab were considered nondiagnostic, respectively, in 0%, 25%, 19%, and 6% of cases. when a definite diagnosis was rendered, the positive predictive value was 90% for ca 19-9 assessment, 95% for us, 98% for ct, and 100% for fnab; the negative predictive value was, respectively, 69%, 95%, 86%, and 100%. the accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81% for ca 19-9 assessment, 72% for us, 77% for ct, and 94% for fnab. it is concluded that ct-guided pancreatic fnab is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis. when the pancreas is well visualized at us, the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of ca 19-9 assessment and ct.
bacterial phagocytosis in obstructive jaundice. a microbiologic and electron microscopic analysis. reticuloendothelial system dysfunction has been suggested as an explanation for the increased susceptibility to infection in patients with obstructive jaundice. in the present study, the response of cholestatic rats to a bacterial challenge was investigated and the uptake of bacteria by their kupffer cells was examined with the electron microscope. rats underwent bile duct ligation (bdl, n = 8) of sham celiotomy (sc, n = 8) and were allowed to recover for 10 days. they were then injected with 10(9) staphylococcus aureus iv and killed at intervals of 15, 30, 60, and 180 minutes after injection. two from each group were killed at each interval. quantitative blood cultures were performed, and specimens of liver and lung were obtained for quantitative bacterial culture and processed for electron microscopy. bacteria were rapidly cleared from the bloodstream of sc animals but persisted in bdl rats. electron microscopy consistently demonstrated bacteria within kupffer cell phagocytic vesicles of both sc and bdl animals at each interval selected. there was no morphologic difference in these vesicles between the two groups. bacteremia persists in bdl rats subjected to a bacterial challenge despite rapid uptake of bacteria in apparently normal phagocytic vesicles. this study suggests a defect in intracellular killing of bacteria, an impairment of delivery of bacteria to re cells, or a combination of these factors.
parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis. the combination of a parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis in an adult, due to a spastic contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is an extremely rare condition. we have recently been exposed to such case, in which it was very difficult to make the diagnosis and where ct of the neck gave us the answers without any difficulty. the indication for ct at an early stage in unexplained neck infections is stressed.
extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas: technique and results in 37 patients. although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) fistulas, this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy, anosmia, and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas. extracranial repair, on the other hand, produces no central nervous system morbidity, preserves olfaction, and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence. although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of csf fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists, this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature. we report here our experience with 37 patients with csf rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair. the etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22, traumatic in 6, and spontaneous in 9. the fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques: external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients, transmastoid in 9, transseptosphenoid in 7, and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3. in 32 of the 37 patients (86%) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure. of the 5 patients requiring a second operation, the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97%. complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis. the authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas, extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of csf rhinorrhea and otorrhea.
early facial reanimation following radical parotid and temporal bone tumor resections. a retrospective study of 35 patients who underwent early facial reanimation following extirpative parotid and temporal bone surgery requiring facial nerve sacrifice was performed. regional facial reanimation performed immediately or within several days included 16 patients who underwent temporalis muscle transposition and 27 who underwent gold weight or eyespring lid reanimation with lower lid tightening. simultaneous nerve grafts or nerve crossover procedures were performed in 22 patients. the authors' favored approaches to facial reanimation are discussed, with an emphasis on the value of early reanimation using properly selected techniques.
rheumatoid arthritis and comorbidity. data collected from 288 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) indicated that 54% of respondents also reported other chronic conditions, and that 20% rated at least one of these other conditions as severe. both the frequency and severity of these comorbidities affected scores on measures of depressive symptoms, social connectedness and on the arthritis impact measurement scales. these findings suggest that the absence of controls for comorbidity may bias measures of functional status among patients with ra.
high cardiac output as a paraneoplastic syndrome. a high cardiac output (17 1 min-1) was recorded in a young man suffering from lymphoplasmatocytotic lymphoma. the evolution of the blood disease was characterized by two relapses, during which clinical signs of heart failure were prominent but resolved with efficient blood chemotherapy. the known aetiologies of high cardiac output were excluded. the complete normalization of the cardiac parameters with blood remission suggests that the high cardiac output represented an unusual paraneoplastic syndrome, the pathogenesis of which still remains unknown, although several hypotheses were tested.
progressive coronary luminal narrowing after cardiac transplantation. accelerated coronary disease is a major factor limiting long-term survival in cardiac transplant recipients. coronary angiography was obtained a mean of 5.1 weeks posttransplantation and annually thereafter. replicate projections recorded after nitroglycerine administration were quantitated using computer-assisted edge detection. five hundred and fifteen coronary segments in 25 patients having 1-year follow-up and 353 segments in 18 patients reaching 2-year follow-up were compared with baseline angiograms. significant change was defined as +/- 0.10 mm, equal to 3.8% change in diameter based on three standard deviations obtained from estimation of measurement error. mean coronary diameter fell from 2.44 +/- 0.26 mm at baseline to 2.21 +/- 0.34 mm (p less than 0.001) at 1-year follow-up. this rate of diameter decline was 20-fold more rapid during the initial posttransplantation year than the rate of change of visually normal segments in nontransplant patients with coronary atherosclerosis elsewhere. there was no significant drop in mean diameter between the first and second year in those patients who had second-year studies. decrease in absolute diameter for vessels greater than 2.9 mm significantly exceeded diameter reduction for smaller vessels but did not differ when considered as a ratio of vessel diameter. in 21 of 25 patients, mean coronary diameter reduction exceeded the three-standard deviation threshold at their last angiogram, but only two of these patients had visually detectable transplant coronary disease.
persistent trophoblast after conservative treatment of tubal pregnancy: prediction and detection. the incidence of persistent trophoblast and risk of second surgical intervention after conservative treatment of tubal pregnancy are substantial. the preoperative and postoperative hcg patterns in patients with tubal pregnancy were studied to see whether this information could predict and detect persistent trophoblast at an early stage. ninety-eight women with tubal pregnancy underwent conservative surgical treatment by laparoscopy or laparotomy. eight developed postoperative complications necessitating a second operation, and seven of them had both biochemical and histologic evidence of persistent trophoblastic activity. in seven of 31 patients with preoperative hcg above 3000 iu/l, a second operation was necessary, whereas in 67 with preoperative hcg levels below 3000 iu/l, only one such intervention was necessary. eight of the 22 patients with hcg above 1000 iu/l on the second day after surgery and seven of 11 patients with hcg above 1000 iu/l on the seventh day after surgery later needed a second surgical procedure. in contrast, 86 of 87 women with hcg below 1000 iu/l on the seventh day after surgery had an uneventful convalescence. we conclude that pre- and postoperative hcg measurements can identify patients at risk of developing persistent trophoblast. further, in patients with preoperative hcg titers below 3000 iu/l, we recommend conservative surgery followed by measurement of hcg 1 week postoperatively.
fish oil supplementation in patients with stable claudication. increased blood viscosity occurs in patients with claudication. this increase in viscosity, which is mainly due to elevated fibrinogen levels and a decreased red cell deformability, adversely influences blood flow. in addition to a positive effect on blood pressure, blood lipids, and platelet responsiveness, fish oil may improve blood flow due to a favorable influence on hemorrheology. in a prospective, randomized, double-blind study, we evaluated the effect of six capsules of fish oil (1.8 g eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.2 g docosahexaenoic acid) versus six capsules of corn oil (3 g linoleic acid), administered for 4 months, on walking distances, pressure indices during rest and after exercise, blood pressure, red cell deformability, fibrinogen, and lipid levels in 32 patients with stable claudication. no significant changes in walking distances and pressure indices during rest and after exercise occurred, despite a significant increase in red cell deformability in the fish oil group. fibrinogen levels did not change in either group. in the fish oil group, a favorable change in blood lipids was noted; high-density cholesterol increased and triglycerides decreased. mean arterial blood pressure declined to a similar extent in both groups. thus, short-term supplementation with fish oil does not lead to clinically significant improvement of symptoms in patients with stable claudication. this suggests that red cell deformability is of minor importance in the arterial blood flow in the legs of these patients.
highly sensitized patients with delayed graft function: a management protocol. the postoperative management of the highly sensitized renal transplant recipient with delayed graft function on cyclosporine is complicated. allografts with delayed graft function are reported to have a 20 to 30% poorer 1-year survival than allografts without delayed graft function. several factors may be implicated in this poorer 1-year survival. a decrease in or cessation of cyclosporine dosage frequently is used in an attempt to minimize nephrotoxicity. such under-immunosuppression can result in irreversible rejection. occasionally, a pessimistic view of the prognosis for the transplant may result in early abandonment of the allograft with discontinuation of immunosuppression and allograft nephrectomy. we report on 3 highly sensitized patients whose kidneys had delayed graft function and were deliberately maintained on high doses of cyclosporine throughout the period of delayed graft function. each graft achieved function (2, 4 and 5 months) after transplantation. the serum creatinine levels 20, 28 and 38 months after transplantation were 2.7, 2.0 and 1.0 mg./dl., respectively. we suggest that the maintenance of high cyclosporine levels throughout the delayed graft function period is useful in highly sensitized recipients and was an important factor in their successful outcome. a management protocol for such patients is proposed.
drug therapy for ventricular tachyarrhythmias: how many electropharmacologic trials are appropriate? to determine how many electropharmacologic drug trials should be performed to select therapy for patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias, the outcome of 150 consecutive patients with inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmias undergoing serial electropharmacologic testing was examined. the probability of identifying predicted effective therapy (inductive of fewer than five ventricular responses with three ventricular extrastimuli at three pacing cycle lengths) and the probability of that therapy preventing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia recurrences were determined as a function of the number of preceding trials. the probability ( +/- se) of identifying predicted effective therapy by the first trial (0.23 +/- 0.03) was significantly higher than that of the second (0.09 +/- 0.04), third (0.08 +/- 0.04) and fourth (0.05 +/- 0.04) trials (p = 0.001). no patient had predicted effective therapy identified by subsequent trials. the 2 year actuarial probability of freedom from sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias on predicted effective therapy was higher for the first (0.79 +/- 0.08), second (0.73 +/- 0.13) and third (0.86 +/- 0.13) trials than for the fourth (0.33 +/- 0.27) trial (p = 0.02). thus, the probability of selecting therapy with long-term efficacy was highest for the first trial (0.18), intermediate for the second (0.07) and third (0.07) trials and lowest for the fourth (0.02) and subsequent (0.00) trials. accordingly, the electropharmacologic approach to therapy selection should be abandoned after three unsuccessful trials.
infrainguinal bypass surgery: factors determining late graft patency. the results of 373 infrainguinal bypass grafts, in a single centre, between 1980 and 1988 are reviewed. one hundred and thirty in situ vein (isv), 47 reversed saphenous vein (rsv), 118 polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe) and 78 human umbilical vein (huv) grafts were used. the indications for surgery were disabling claudication in 25 per cent of patients and limb salvage in 75 per cent. in 36 per cent of operations the distal anastomosis was above the knee and in 64 per cent it was below the knee. overall 5-year patency rates and limb salvage rates respectively were, for isv (41 and 69 per cent), rsv (62 and 90 per cent), ptfe (31 and 67 per cent) and huv (29 and 59 per cent). there was no significant difference in patency among these grafts at the above-knee level, but significant differences between vein and prosthetic grafts were evident below the knee (p less than 0.001). using a proportional hazards model the three factors that consistently correlated with late graft patency were graft type (p less than 0.001), site of distal anastomosis (p less than 0.001) and distal run-off (p less than 0.001). overall, the results suggest that prosthetic grafts are a suitable alternative to autogenous vein when the distal anastomosis is above the knee, but vein should always be used, if available, below the knee joint.
the role of the clinical microbiology laboratory in transplantation. the clinical microbiology laboratory plays a central role in any transplantation program. pretransplantation microbiologic testing often determines prophylactic treatment, donor selection, and blood product use. with suspected infection, rapid microbiologic tests permit prompt therapy but are challenged by an ever-changing diversity of potential pathogens and limited specimen size. antigen detection and the polymerase chain reaction with nucleic acid hybridization are newer methods that promise earlier detection of such serious infections as disseminated aspergillosis and primary cytomegalovirus and may reveal new microbial causes of various posttransplantation syndromes.
gunshot wounds to the cervical spine. a retrospective review was performed on 28 patients with low-velocity gunshot wounds to the cervical spine. these composed 31% of all spinal gunshot wounds seen during the study period between 1979 and 1988. surgical decompression did not seem to improve neurologic recovery in either the incomplete or complete patients. neurologic recovery also appeared to be unaffected by the presence of retained intracanal bullet fragments. the authors found no advantage to routine neck exploration of this penetrating injury. complications were seen in 93% of the patients. most complications were thromboembolic, pulmonary, and urinary tract infections. no cases of instability occurred as a direct result of the gunshot wound. no deaths occurred in this series. two cases of posttraumatic syrinxes were diagnosed. the authors' current treatment recommendations for these patients include selective wound management and observation of retained intracanal bullet fragments in patients with complete lesions. surgical decompression after this injury is not recommended.
anti-inflammatory effects of pentoxifylline in claudication. we measured neutrophil elastase/alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor complex (e/alpha) levels by elisa in plasma samples drawn from 19 patients with claudication, before and at 1 and 2 months after initiation of pentoxifylline (ptf), 400 mg. p.o. tid. plasma e/alpha levels declined in all eight patients whose initial values were more than 300 ng elastase per ml. whole blood viscosity (wbv) was reduced by two months' treatment in 12 of 14 patients tested. the relative change in wbv was significantly related to the relative change in e/alpha (r2 = 0.8), for patients with elevated initial e/alpha levels, suggesting a common or related mechanism for the two effects. plasma crosslinked fibrin d-dimer fragments (xdp) measured by elisa as indicators of coagulation activity were lower compared to pretreatment levels in 9 of 10 samples drawn when symptoms were improved on ptf, whereas they were increased in 6 of 9 samples drawn when symptoms were worse or unchanged. plasma viscosity, c-reactive protein and alpha 1-acid-glycoprotein did not change significantly with ptf treatment. together these findings are consistent with the possibility that reduced microvascular neutrophil activation and coagulation play a role in the clinical efficacy of ptf in intermittent claudication.
hot-tip laser. results and complications. the hot tip laser system for atheroablation has been used since mid-1984 as a device for broadening the indications for and extending the applicability of angioplasty in the management of lower-extremity atherosclerosis. it has been a controversial device. although the system demonstrates that it can occasionally be useful for the management of occlusive as opposed to stenotic disease of the infrainguinal arteries, a close examination of the published data fails to demonstrate a consistent improvement in either the primary success or long-term patency rates for thermal energy applied to atheroma for recanalization of the lower extremity arteries.
induction of different morphologic features of malignant melanoma and pigmented lesions after transformation of murine melanocytes with bfgf-cdna and h-ras, myc, neu, and e1a oncogenes. malignant melanomas show a remarkable degree of heterogeneity because of different morphologic features, biologic behavior, and prognosis. in this communication, the authors attempted to correlate morphologic heterogeneity of melanomas with transformation by different activated oncogenes; they studied the histologic features of melanocytic lesions induced by murine melanocytes transformed by basic fibroblast growth factor (b-fgf-cdna) or h-ras, neu, myc, and e1a oncogenes, and the lesions were compared with those observed in human pathology. tumors formed after grafting onto syngenic mice or subcutaneous injections in nude mice were studied. in syngenic mice, benign melanocytic lesions reminiscent of intradermal nevus were observed with melanocytes transformed with b-fgf-cdna, and myc and e1a oncogenes. benign lesions were also formed by neu-transformed melanocytes when they were grafted concomitantly with keratinocytes, whereas malignant tumors were formed by the same cells when grafted alone or together with fibroblasts. in contrast, h-ras melanocytes always formed malignant tumors. in nude mice, b-fgf-transformed melanocytes induced benign lesions, whereas transformed melanocytes by the other oncogenes formed malignant tumors with distinctive and homogeneous morphologic features that depended on the transforming oncogene. melanomas with either epithelioid cell, spindle cell, small round cell, and anaplastic cell growth patterns could be distinguished after transformation with h-ras, neu, e1a, and myc oncogenes, respectively. these various histologic types are analogous to those that may be observed in human melanomas, even within the same tumor. these studies suggest a possible molecular mechanism for tumor heterogeneity in which distinct oncogenes or oncogenelike activities can be activated in different tumors or discrete parts of the same tumor.
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis. we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis. the mean age of the patients was 31.1 +/- 4.3 years. at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women, stage iii in 25, and stage i in three. after reoperation, the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 +/- 30.3 months. pain symptoms returned in eight women, dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight, and pelvic pain in seven. eight of the 28 women (28.6%) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies. the corrected pregnancy rate was 35%, and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7%. a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months. conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis.
abnormal blood pressure response during exercise in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. to investigate the incidence of abnormal exercise blood pressure responses in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm) and the potential role of hemodynamic instability as a mechanism of sudden death, 129 consecutive patients with hcm underwent maximal symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with blood pressure recording. four patterns of blood pressure response were observed. forty-three patients had significant exercise hypotension, with either a continuous fall in systolic blood pressure (n = 5) from the start of exercise or a sudden fall in systolic blood pressure (20-100 mm hg; mean, 40 mm hg) from the peak value (n = 38), 23 patients had a normal response during exercise but an abnormal blood pressure response in the recovery period, and the remaining 62 patients demonstrated a normal blood pressure response. patients with exercise hypotension were younger (33 +/- 14 versus 46 +/- 14 years) and more of them had a family history of hcm and sudden death compared with those with a normal blood pressure response (15 of 43 versus 6 of 62 patients). similarly, the 23 patients with abnormal recovery blood pressure responses were younger (43 +/- 16 versus 46 +/- 14 years) and had a higher incidence of a family history of sudden death (10 of 24 versus 6 of 62 patients). left ventricular cavity dimensions were smaller in those with exercise hypotension, but 11 other clinical, echocardiographic, and arrhythmic variables were similar. to assess the mechanism of exercise hypotension, 14 patients who demonstrated exercise hypotension and 14 symptomatic patients with a normal exercise blood pressure response underwent invasive hemodynamic exercise testing.
cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis: treatments with simvastatin, lovastatin, and chenodeoxycholic acid in 3 siblings. we report 3 sisters treated for cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. we treated one, with a severe neurologic form of the illness, with chenodeoxycholic acid, then lovastatin and simvastatin. these drugs had different efficacy and tolerance, but induced no clinical improvement. her sisters, without neurologic symptoms, received chenodeoxycholic acid, which normalized the cholestanol level. optimal treatment of this illness must begin before there is significant clinical symptomatology.
cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas. the rarity of cholangiocarcinoma occurring in von meyenburg complexes is well appreciated. we describe the case of a 35-year-old man found to have cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas of the liver. areas of ductal proliferation and atypia within the bile duct hamartomas suggest malignant transformation to cholangiocarcinoma.
glucose tolerance and blood pressure: long term follow up in middle aged men [published erratum appears in bmj 1991 apr 20;302(6782):939] objective--to investigate the role of glucose tolerance in the development of hypertension. design--retrospective analysis of the results of a health check up in a group of clinically healthy middle aged men in the late 1960s (median year 1968). the subjects were invited to enter into a primary prevention trial for cardiovascular disease in 1974, when they underwent clinical examination for risk factors. the trial was completed in 1979, when the men were re-examined. follow up was in 1986. setting--institute of occupational health, helsinki, finland and second department of medicine, university of helsinki. subjects--in all, 3490 men born during 1919-34 participated in a health check up in the late 1960s. in 1974, 1815 of these men who were clinically healthy were entered into a primary prevention trial for cardiovascular disease. on clinical examination 1222 of the men were considered at high risk of cardiovascular disease. of these, 612 received an intervention and were excluded from the study. a total of 593 men were without risk factors. the study comprised all of the men who did not have an intervention (n = 1203). in 1979, 1120 men were re-examined, and in 1986 945 men attended follow up. there were two groups for analysis: one comprising all subjects and the other comprising only men who were normotensive in 1968 and for whom complete information was available. interventions--by 1979, 103 men were taking antihypertensive drugs, and by 1986, 131 were taking antihypertensive drugs and 12 were taking drugs for hyperglycaemia. main outcome measures--blood glucose concentration one hour after a glucose load, blood pressure, and body weight were measured in 1968, 1974, and 1979. in 1986 blood pressure and body weight were recorded. results--men who were hypertensive in 1986 had significantly higher blood pressures (p less than 0.0001) and (after adjustment for body mass index and alcohol intake) significantly higher blood glucose concentrations one hour after a glucose load at all examinations than those who were normotensive in 1986. regression analysis showed that the higher the blood glucose concentration after a glucose load in 1968 the higher the blood pressure during the following years. those men between the second and third tertiles of blood glucose concentration in 1968 had a significantly higher risk of developing hypertension (odds ratio 1.71, 95% confidence interval 1.05 to 2.77) compared with those below the first tertile. conclusion--in this study men who developed hypertension tended to have shown an increased intolerance to glucose up to 18 years before the clinical manifestation of their disorder. blood glucose concentration one hour after a glucose load was an independent predictor of future hypertension.
symptoms of raynaud's syndrome in patients with fibromyalgia. a study utilizing the nielsen test, digital photoplethysmography, and measurements of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. twenty-nine female patients with fibromyalgia were questioned about symptoms of cold intolerance and raynaud's syndrome; objective documentation of cold-induced vasospasm was obtained by a nielsen test. twelve patients (41%) had abnormal nielsen test results, and 11 patients (38%) had elevated levels of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. there was a positive correlation between the percentage of change in finger systolic pressure on cooling (nielsen test) and the number of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. there was poor correlation between raynaud's syndrome symptoms and an abnormal nielsen test result. digital photoplethysmography showed a normal waveform in 2 of 3 patients. we hypothesize that a subgroup of patients with fibromyalgia syndrome have an up-regulation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors as a cause of their exaggerated reaction to cold.
the effects of dopamine on myocardial functional recovery after reversible ischemic injury. dopamine frequently is used to improve cardiac performance after acute myocardial ischemia. inotropic agents, however, increase myocardial oxygen demand and could potentially delay recovery from ischemic injury. to evaluate this problem, we studied eight chronically instrumented dogs in the conscious state and performed two 15-minute coronary occlusions 48 hours apart. after one of the occlusions, either dopamine (15 micrograms/kg/min) or saline placebo was administered intravenously from 1.0 to 1.5 hours of reperfusion. the alternative infusion was given during the second study. preload recruitable work area, the area beneath the stroke work versus end-diastolic length relationship, was used to assess intrinsic myocardial performance. ischemia decreased preload recruitable work area to 13% of control after both occlusions. after reperfusion, a 30-minute dopamine infusion acutely increased myocardial function nearly threefold as compared with placebo. myocardial performance after dopamine administration, however, was significantly depressed compared with placebo throughout the remaining 24 hours of reperfusion (p less than 0.01). these data indicate that dopamine may impair functional recovery after ischemic myocardial injury and suggest that inotropic interventions should be used in this setting only when absolutely indicated.
anaesthetic hazards of aortocaval fistula. a 66-yr-old man was anaesthetized for repair of a suspected ruptured aortic aneurysm. he became deeply cyanosed and suffered two episodes of asystole as the surgeons entered the abdomen. after the aorta was cross-clamped his condition improved markedly and no further problems ensued. surgical exploration demonstrated intact aneurysms of the aorta and left iliac artery, the former containing a 3-4 cm long aortocaval fistula. the aneurysms and fistula were repaired and his further course was uncomplicated. potential causes for the cyanosis and cardiac arrest in this patient are discussed.
sotalol versus quinidine for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of atrial fibrillation this open, parallel-group study compares quinidine and sotalol treatment for maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. the patients from 15 centers in sweden were randomized to sotalol (98 patients) or quinidine (85 patients) after 2 hours of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion. according to primary efficacy assessment, 52% of the patients in the sotalol group and 48% of the patients in the quinidine group remained in sinus rhythm during the following 6-month treatment period (ns). furthermore, 34% of the patients treated with sotalol and 22% of the patients treated with quinidine relapsed into atrial fibrillation (ns). heart rate after relapsing into atrial fibrillation was higher in the patients treated with quinidine (109 beats/min) than in the patients treated with sotalol (78 beats/min, p less than 0.001). patients treated with sotalol were found to be less symptomatic at the time of relapse compared with relapsing patients in the quinidine group. in terms of safety, more patients were withdrawn from quinidine than from sotalol treatment (26% vs. 11%, p less than 0.05), and sotalol was generally better tolerated than quinidine. twenty-eight percent of the patients treated with sotalol and 50% of the patients treated with quinidine reported side effects (p less than 0.01). the difference was primarily a result of early (within the first month of treatment) gastrointestinal and skin side effects in the group of patients treated with quinidine.
gingival and cutaneous xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis. report of a case. the first comprehensive case report of intraoral xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis is detailed. the lesions were present along the free gingival margin and labial vestibule. crevicular fluid was noted to be tinged yellow. generalized cutaneous eruptions were also seen. the xanthomas were attributed to the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia. advanced progression of the hepatic disease necessitated a liver transplant. disappearance of both oral and skin lesions were subsequently observed.
an adult with common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (c-all) presenting with skin infiltration. a 22-year-old man presented with multiple raised erythematous skin lesions, pyrexia and epistaxis. a diagnosis of common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (c-all) was made by morphological, cytochemical, immunological and cytogenetic examination of peripheral blood and bone marrow. biopsy of the skin revealed leukaemic infiltration by similar cells.
aortic dissection with a fistulous communication into the right atrium: a case report. a case of aortic dissection (type 1, de bakey) with a rent into the right atrium (ra), diagnosed by echocardiography (echo) and confirmed by aortography, is reported. the patient presented with cardiac failure and a continuous murmur in the right second and third intercostal spaces. the patient has survived for two years with medial treatment.
high-resolution ultrafast chest ct in the clinical management of febrile bone marrow transplant patients with normal or nonspecific chest roentgenograms plain chest roentgenograms may be normal or show nonspecific abnormalities during the frequent febrile episodes that occur in patients after bone marrow transplantation. in this group, ultrafast 10-mm and 3-mm high-resolution ct scans were prospectively performed in 33 patients to determine if useful information was provided that either changed the patient's clinical management or added confidence to the clinical diagnosis. the 36 symptomatic episodes that occurred in 33 patients included fever in 20 episodes and fever combined with cough, dyspnea, chest pain, or rales in 16. fourteen chest roentgenograms were interpreted as normal, and 22 were interpreted as demonstrating nonspecific changes; however, none of the roentgenograms was considered helpful in that they did not provide sufficient information for further management. in 2 of 14 episodes in patients with normal chest roentgenograms and in 9 of 22 episodes in patients with nonspecific chest roentgenograms, ct scanning resulted in a change in clinical management that included performing bronchoscopy, increasing or changing antibiotic coverage, starting white blood cell transfusions, requesting surgical biopsy, or a combination of these. in 1 of 14 episodes in patients with normal chest roentgenograms and in 8 of 22 episodes in patients with nonspecific roentgenograms, ct added confidence to the diagnosis. in the remaining 16 episodes, ct scans provided no additional information. we conclude that in many instances, noncontrast ultrafast chest ct scans can provide information that may either change a patient's clinical management or more clearly establish the extent of pulmonary disease.
long-term outcome after surgery for biliary atresia. study of 40 patients surviving for more than 10 years. to define long-term prognosis of children who underwent surgery for biliary atresia, a retrospective study was undertaken in 122 children who underwent one of the kasai procedures between 1968 and 1977. forty of the 122 children (32.7%) were alive after 10 years. firm hepatomegaly was present in 31 and splenomegaly in 29 children. serum bilirubin or all liver function tests were normal in 21 and 11 children, respectively; survival rate decreased with the age at operation, but no significant difference was observed in the rate of children surviving with normal serum bilirubin whether they underwent surgery before age 2 months or between 2 and 3 months. twenty-four had esophageal varices and 15 experienced gastrointestinal bleeding. normal liver-function tests and absence of portal hypertension were observed in 11 of 122 children. these results indicate that kasai's procedures were helpful in a significant proportion of children with biliary atresia who underwent surgery during this period. however, 80% of children who initially underwent surgery with kasai's procedures should eventually undergo liver transplantation.
repair of o6-ethylguanine in dna protects rat 208f cells from tumorigenic conversion by n-ethyl-n-nitrosourea. o6-ethylguanine (o6-etgua) is one of about a dozen different alkylation products formed in the dna of cells exposed to the alkylating n-nitroso carcinogen n-ethyl-n-nitrosourea (etnu). we have evaluated selectively the relative capacity of cells for the specific enzymatic repair of o6-etgua as a determinant for the probability of malignant conversion. eleven o6-etgua-repair-proficient (r+) variant subclones were isolated from the o6-etgua-repair-deficient (r-) clonal rat fibroblast line 208f by selection for resistance to 1,3-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (frequency, approximately equal to 10(-5). contrary to the 208f wild-type cells, all variants expressed o6-methylguanine-dna methyltransferase activity, while both kinds of cells were deficient for repair of the dna ethylation products o2- and o4-ethylthymine. after exposure to etnu (less than or equal to 500 micrograms/ml; 20 min), cells were analyzed for the formation of piled-up foci in monolayer culture and of anchorage-independent colonies in semisolid agar medium. depending on the etnu concentration, the frequencies of piled-up foci and agar colonies, respectively, in the r+ variants were as low as 1/28th and 1/56th of those in the r- wild type. contrasting with the cells from r+ variant-derived agar colonies, cells from 208f (r-) agar colonies gave rise to highly malignant tumors when implanted subcutaneously into syngeneic rats. no significant differences in the frequencies of piled-up foci were found between wild-type and variant cells after exposure to the major reactive metabolite of benzo[a]pyrene, (+)-7 beta, 8 alpha-dihydroxy-9,10 alpha-epoxy-7,8,9,10 alpha-tetrahydrobenzo[a] pyrene, for which stable binding to guanine o6 in cellular dna has not been observed. the relative capacity of cells for repair of o6-alkylguanine is, therefore, a critical determinant for their risk of malignant conversion by n-nitroso carcinogens.
intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis. negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30% of patients. a previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group. the etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations; however, investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes. this report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography, in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma. for this reason, cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography.
oxygen desaturation during fiberoptic bronchoscopy in pediatric patients. study objective: pulse oximetry was used to measure arterial oxygen saturation and the extent of hypoxemia in pediatric patients undergoing fb. design: arterial oxygen saturation was measured (1) prior to the procedure to provide a baseline value, (2) when the bronchoscope was positioned in the nasopharynx, and (3) when the bronchoscope was positioned in the mid-trachea. setting: fiberoptic bronchoscopy was performed in the pediatric special care unit or in the pediatric pulmonary laboratory using an olympus bf3c4 fiberoptic bronchoscope with a 3.5-mm outer diameter. patients or participants: thirty-six children who underwent diagnostic or therapeutic bronchoscopy for a variety of reasons were evaluated. they ranged in age from 6 to 142 months; 20 were male and 16 were female. interventions: there were no interventions. measurements and results: of the 36 patients, 29 experienced a fall in sao2 levels exceeding 5 percent of baseline values. the youngest age group, 6 to 12 months, showed the greatest drop in saturation as compared with the other groups. desaturation was significantly increased by midtracheal fb. conclusions: a decline in arterial oxygen saturation that may be substantial in infants and children undergoing fb examination was frequently noted, especially in smaller infants and when the bronchoscope was positioned in the mid-trachea. supplemental oxygen and a brisk procedure time will minimize the risk of dangerous hypoxia.
pain 'memories' in phantom limbs: review and clinical observations. this paper reviews reports of phantom limb sensations which resemble somatosensory events experienced in the limb before amputation. it also presents descriptions of this phenomenon in 68 amputees who took part in a series of clinical studies. these somatosensory memories are predominantly replicas of distressing pre-amputation lesions and pains which were experienced at or near the time of amputation, and are described as having the same qualities of sensation as the pre-amputation pain. the patients who experience these pains emphasize that they are suffering real pain which they can describe in vivid detail, and insist that the experience is not merely a cognitive recollection of an earlier pain. reports of somatosensory memories are less common when there has been a discontinuity, or a pain-free interval, between the experience of pain and amputation. among the somatosensory memories reported are cutaneous lesions, deep tissue injuries, bone and joint pain and painful pre-amputation postures. the experience of somatosensory memories does not appear to be related to the duration of pre-amputation pain, time since amputation, age, gender, prosthetic use, level of amputation, number of limbs amputated, or whether the amputation followed an accident or illness. the results suggest that somatosensory inputs of sufficient intensity and duration can produce lasting changes in central neural structures which combine with cognitive-evaluative memories of the pre-amputation pain to give rise to the unified experience of a past pain referred to the phantom limb. implications for pre- and post-operative pain control are discussed.
distribution of deletions and seven point mutations on cyp21b genes in three clinical forms of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency. to characterize mutations in the cyp21b gene that are responsible for congenital adrenal hyperplasia (cah), dna samples from 91 french patients have been studied by allelic-specific oligonucleotide hybridization and southern blot analysis. seven sites mostly found in the cyp21a pseudogene and deletions of the functional cyp21b gene have been screened. gene conversions involving small dna segments accounted for 57% of the tested mutations and probably cause 74% of the mutations responsible for the disease. complete deletion of the cyp21b gene accounted for 18% of the cah mutations in the whole sample and for 21% in the classical form of the disease. three mutations were found associated with specific clinical forms of the disease: a g-c substitution in the seventh exon was associated with the late-onset form of the disease, and both an 8-bp depletion in the third exon and complete deletion of cyp21b were associated with the salt-wasting form.
failure of transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery: case report. recurrent stenosis of the carotid arteries after a carotid endarterectomy for atherosclerosis can occur as a result of myointimal hyperplasia. this condition was treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. excellent dilatation of the vessel lumen was documented after balloon dilatation. a 6-month follow-up angiographic study, however, demonstrated recurrent high-grade stenosis at the same level in both carotid arteries. presumably, the failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery results in the same condition after the original endarterectomy, that is, additional myointimal hyperplasia.
nephron function in the early phase of ischemic renal failure. significance of erythrocyte trapping. trapping of red blood cells (rbcs) in renal medulla vasculature in postischemic acute renal failure (arf) was found to depend upon the length of the ischemic period. thus trapping occurred after 45 minutes but not 25 minutes of ischemia. by prior hemodilution to a hematocrit (hct) of 30%, rbc trapping after 45 minutes of ischemia could be completely prevented. likewise hemo-concentration (hct = 60%) before 25 minutes of ischemia resulted in extensive rbc trapping. by increasing or decreasing the hct, the contribution of rbc trapping to the functional defects and decrease in renal blood flow that follows minor (25 min) and more substantial (45 min) ischemia was investigated. renal blood flow (rbf) was measured by microspheres, and vascular and tubular pressure by the micropuncture technique. glomerular filtration rate (gfr) was estimated from inulin clearance, and tubular function from urine osmolality and sodium and potassium excretion. it was found that postischemic rbf was not correlated to rbc trapping but depended on the length of ischemia. after both 25 and 45 minutes of ischemia tubular obstructions occurred in the proximal tubules and/or loops of henle, causing an increase in proximal tubular pressure. these obstructions were dependent on the length of ischemia but not on rbc trapping. after hemoconcentration and 25 minutes of ischemia there was an increment in distal tubular pressure, indicating that abundant rbc trapping may contribute to an increase in tubular pressure by compression of medullary tubules and thereby reduce gfr. when the damage was more severe other factors came into play and the contribution of rbc trapping to the decrease in gfr was minimal.
reinforcement of incontinent stools in the treatment of encopresis. in this paper, fecal incontinence and constipation were treated in two mentally retarded individuals using a novel intervention wherein incontinent stools were first rewarded in order to increase the frequency of bowel movements. this intervention was implemented only after more traditional pediatric and behavioral treatments were unsuccessful. the reinforcement of incontinent stools procedure resulted in an increase in both the frequency and the number of continent stools for both individuals. hypotheses regarding the failure of previous treatments and the success of the current treatment are discussed as well as directions for future research.
usefulness of pulsed doppler ultrasound in detection of angiographically evident recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma after arterial embolization treatment. because hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization often regains its size, routine follow-up is necessary. the usefulness of pulsed doppler ultrasound for detection of this type of recurrence was compared with ultrasonography and computed tomography in 21 such hepatocellular carcinomas. of 15 hepatocellular carcinomas diagnosed by angiography as showing recurrence, four were detected with ultrasonography and five were detected with computed tomography. doppler signals were obtained in the peripheral portions corresponding to tumor vessels or stains on angiograms in 14 of these 15 hepatocellular carcinomas, but they were undetectable in six hepatocellular carcinomas with no recurrence. all signals disappeared after transcatheter arterial embolization. one false-negative hepatocellular carcinoma with pulsed doppler ultrasound showed faint tumor stains on angiograms; these were also negative on ultrasonography and computed tomography. pulsed doppler ultrasound may be superior to ultrasonography and computed tomography as a routine procedure to detect the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization.
thymoma: results of 241 operated cases clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed. one hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases; 55% of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45% invasive. operation was radical resection in 87.5% of the patients, subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7%, and simple biopsy in 3.7%. a tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients (10%): 2 (1.5%) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 (20.4%) of 108 with invasive thymomas; among these patients, a relapse was found in 20.6% of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6% who did not. adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage iva (multiple pleural nodes), not feasible resection (for technical reasons), inoperable tumor relapse, and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases: pure red cell aplasia, hypogammaglobulinemia, and lupus erythematosus. conversely, myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma, thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis (p less than 0.05). postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas, but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas, regardless of the extent of the resection.
successful fontan-type operation for a nonresectable right ventricular tumor. a large intracavitary right ventricular tumor in a 24-year-old patient was considered nonresectable because it involved the interventricular septum, the free ventricular walls, and the tricuspid valve. surgical palliation consisted of closure of the tricuspid and pulmonary valves, and the right atrium was anastomosed to the pulmonary artery bifurcation. the patient is asymptomatic 7 years after operation, and the neoplasm (a rhabdomyoma) has not increased in size.
a mutation in the gene for type iii procollagen (col3a1) in a family with aortic aneurysms. experiments were carried out to test the hypothesis that familial aortic aneurysms, either thoracic or abdominal, are caused by mutations in the gene for type iii procollagen (col3a1) similar to mutations in the same gene that have been shown to cause rupture of aorta and other disastrous consequences in the rare genetic disorder known as ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv. a family was identified through a 37-yr-old female captain in the united states air force who was scrutinized only because many of her direct blood relatives had died of ruptured aortic aneurysms. the woman was heterozygous for a single-base mutation that converted the codon for glycine 619 of the alpha 1(iii) chain of type iii procollagen to a codon for arginine. studies on cultured skin fibroblasts demonstrated the mutation caused synthesis of type iii procollagen that had a decreased temperature for thermal unfolding of the protein. the same mutation was identified in dna extracted from pathologic specimens from her mother who had died at the age of 34 and a maternal aunt who died at the age of 55 of aortic aneurysms. examination of dna from samples of saliva revealed that the woman's daughter, her son, a brother, and an aunt also had the mutation. the results demonstrated that mutations in the type iii procollagen gene can cause familial aortic aneurysms and that dna tests for such mutations can identify individuals at risk for aneurysms.
metastatic tumors of unknown origin. the clinical appearance of metastatic lesions without an obvious primary source for the tumor is a common event. tumor registry figures and epidemiologic data grossly understate the actual frequency of unknown primaries, because primary sites are often "assigned" to patients on a best-guess basis without positive proof of a tumor's origin. in the majority of patients whose primary tumors have continued to elude detection, the extensive use of diagnostic imaging studies fails to produce information that alters the patients' clinical course. rare exceptions will be cited, but these exceptions prove the general rule. imaging studies should therefore be targeted for selected patients with disseminated malignancies in whom identification of their primary tumors could benefit quality of life or length of survival.
effect of thiopental on neurologic outcome following coronary artery bypass grafting to determine if thiopental reduces the incidence of neurologic sequelae after coronary artery surgery, we prospectively studied 300 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. patients who had no history of neurologic or psychiatric illness were randomly assigned to receive either a thiopental infusion or a saline placebo infusion beginning with the administration of heparin and ending just after aortic decannulation. the patients received an opioid-relaxant anesthetic administered by an anesthesiologist who was not involved in this investigation and who was blinded to the test infusion. one of the investigators infused either saline or thiopental to produce an isoelectric electroencephalogram with 30-45 s between bursts. standardized neurologic examinations were performed preoperatively and on the 2nd and 5th postoperative days by one of the blinded investigators. the group of patients receiving thiopental required a longer time for awakening (6.4 +/- 3.9 vs. 4.0 +/- 2.4 h, mean +/- sd, p less than 0.05) and for tracheal extubation (22.4 +/- 18.4 vs. 17.4 +/- 9.6 h, p less than 0.05), and a greater number of these patients were lethargic on the 2nd postoperative day. more patients receiving thiopental required vasoconstrictors during the thiopental loading and cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) periods, while a greater number of patients receiving placebo required vasodilators. a greater number of patients receiving thiopental required inotropic drugs during separation from cpb. despite the above differences, only 2 of the 151 patients in the placebo group (1.3%) and 5 of the 149 patients in the thiopental group (3.3%) experienced strokes (p = 0.2535).
initial evaluation of heart murmurs: are laboratory tests necessary? heart murmurs, most of them innocent, are the most common reason for referrals to a pediatric cardiologist. in the evaluation of murmurs, the electrocardiogram and echocardiogram are often included. the purpose of this study was to determine the utility of these examinations in the initial assessment of heart murmurs in children and adolescents. in a prospective series of 161 patients, the clinical diagnosis of heart murmurs by a pediatric cardiologist was compared with that obtained after electrocardiogram and echocardiogram (two-dimensional, m-mode, doppler, and color-doppler). on the basis of the clinical diagnosis the patients were classified as having "innocent murmur," "pathologic murmur," or "possible pathologic murmur." a total of 161 patients (51% males), aged 1 month to 17 years (median 3.2 years), were studied. after electrocardiogram, no diagnosis was changed. after echocardiogram, the clinical diagnosis of innocent murmur in 109 patients changed in 2 to pathologic (small ventricular septal defect 1, small atrial septal defect 1); pathologic murmur in 46 changed to innocent in 3 and possible pathologic in 2; and possible pathologic in 6 changed to innocent in 3 and to pathologic in 2. the clinical examination by an experienced pediatric cardiologist is an accurate means of assessing newly referred patients with murmurs. the clinical examination had a sensitivity of 96%, specificity of 95%, positive predictive value of 88%, and negative predictive value of 98%. the electrocardiogram, unlikely to disclose any unsuspected heart disease, may assist in reaching the lesion-specific diagnosis when there is underlying pathology. echocardiography, although diagnostic when heart disease is suspected, is unnecessary in pediatric patients with clinically diagnosed innocent heart murmurs.
human papillomaviruses: pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens as summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions, ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas. they have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture. fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of hpv genomes and identification of some hpv gene functions. in addition to their clinical importance hpvs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions, gene expression, cellular differentiation and cancer. hpv infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent. depending on the hpv type and location, the modes of hpv transmission may involve casual physical contact, sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission. hpv dna genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and, as most clinicians know, are difficult to eradicate. there is often a long latent period and subclinical infections, and hpv dna can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions. hpvs can cause widely disseminated lesions, especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis. aside from the rare carcinomas, the most serious life-threatening hpv-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions hpv dna is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome. unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle, hpv integration is a terminal event for viral replication. such integration may be critical, however, for viral-induced abnormal cell growth. perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable. the data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to hpv via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer. a more realistic goal, however is prevention of hpv transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives, which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma. the america association of pediatrics committee on adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases. certainly a fundamental knowledge of hpv epidemiology, the risks of hpv-related sequelae and prevention of hpv infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality. although helpful, such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors. a significant reduction in hpv infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues.
immunohistochemical study of erythropoietin in cerebellar hemangioblastomas associated with secondary polycythemia. although cerebellar hemangioblastomas are known to be associated with secondary polycythemia, the cellular derivation of erythropoietin (epo) in hemangioblastomas still remains obscure. specimens from 18 patients with cerebellar hemangioblastomas were immunohistochemically studied using anti-epo monoclonal antibody. eight cases of brain tumors, including 2 meningiomas, 2 medulloblastomas, 2 glioblastomas, and 2 metastatic brain tumors were studied as controls. in 9 of 18 cases, epo-positive cells were scattered around the capillaries and were ultrastructurally shown to be mast cells. these cases were not, however, associated with secondary polycythemia. in contrast, the stromal cells were positive for epo in 3 cases. among them, one was associated with secondary polycythemia. furthermore, one-half of the control cases of brain tumor contained epo-positive mast cells. accordingly, it was suggested that mast cells (or small granulocytes) have little relationship to the release of epo; however, some stromal cells might release epo with a resultant polycythemia.
surgical and prosthesis-related complications using the groningen button voice prosthesis. prosthesis-assisted tracheoesophageal speech has advanced speech rehabilitation appreciably. however, the surgical technique and the use of a prosthesis may give rise to complications. in a retrospective study on 132 consecutive patients rehabilitated with a groningen button voice prosthesis, the complications were assessed, the average follow-up being 21 months. surgical complications were not observed. prosthesis-related complications, which were encountered in 28%, were all of a minor nature and mainly consisted of granulation formation and hypertrophic scarring; these appeared to be easily treatable. the complications found were few and insignificant in comparison with reports in the literature. this may be attributed to the uncomplicated surgical procedure for the insertion of the groningen button. moreover, the prosthesis is self-retaining and requires hardly any care from the patient. permanent removal of the prosthesis usually requires surgical closure, which is a simple procedure performed under local anaesthesia.
temporal relationship between the decrease in arterial pressure and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis. it has been proposed that the initial event of sodium retention in cirrhosis is a peripheral arteriolar vasodilation causing underfilling of the arterial vascular compartment and stimulation of the renin-aldosterone and sympathetic nervous systems. to test this hypothesis, systolic blood pressure, sodium balance and urinary excretion of sodium and aldosterone were sequentially measured in 13 conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats submitted to a cirrhosis induction program with carbon tetrachloride and phenobarbital and in 14 control hypertensive animals. no significant differences were found between control and cirrhotic rats in any of the measured parameters during the first 7 wk of the study. the eighth week sodium retention developed in cirrhotic rats as indicated by a positive sodium balance and a marked decrease of sodium excretion. at the same time a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure and a great increase in urinary excretion of aldosterone were detected. these changes were more marked the ninth week of the study. in cirrhotic rats there was a highly significant direct correlation between systolic blood pressure and urinary sodium excretion. postmortem examination showed a histological picture of cirrhosis in all animals given carbon tetrachloride and ascites in six of them. these results indicate that the onset of hyperaldosteronism and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis is chronologically related to a significant decrease in arterial pressure, thus supporting the "peripheral arterial vasodilation hypothesis" of ascites.
operative findings after percutaneous pulmonary balloon dilatation of the right ventricular outflow tract in tetralogy of fallot. since 1983 percutaneous balloon dilatation of the right ventricular outflow tract has been performed as an alternative to surgical palliation in selected cases of tetralogy of fallot at the royal liverpool children's hospital. from 31 december 1984 to 31 december 1988, 27 of these patients underwent subsequent surgical correction. age at operation ranged from 7 to 58 months (median 2.7 years). the mean interval between balloon dilatation and correction was 15.6 months (range 3-39 months). two patients had a systemic pulmonary shunt operation performed before dilatation and a further five required one afterwards. overall 20 (74%) patients had some anatomical alteration as the result of balloon dilatation, while in seven (26%) there was no discernible change in the right ventricular outflow tract. there was no consistent relation between the ratio of balloon size to pulmonary annulus diameter and the morphological findings. balloon dilatation may obviate the need for systemic-pulmonary shunt at the expense of some structural damage, particularly to the posterior cusp. the present data suggest that dilatation does not bring about growth of the annulus to such an extent that transannular patch is no longer needed at intracardiac repair.
calcium metabolic indices, vascular retinopathy, and plasma renin activity in essential hypertension. the interplays between calcium metabolic indices, retinal vascular status, plasma renin activity and blood pressure were examined in 67 patients with untreated essential hypertension. there was an inverse relationship between plasma ionized calcium and blood pressure (p = .002), whereas albumin-modified total serum calcium was directly related to blood pressure (p = .02). the plasma cyclic amp level (p = .05) and the 24 h urinary excretion of cyclic amp (p = .03) were also positively associated with blood pressure. patients with vascular retinopathy had lower plasma ionized calcium concentrations (p = .01) and higher 24 h urinary cyclic amp excretions (p = .05) than those without such changes, even when the differences in blood pressure, age, sex and body mass index were taken into account in analyses of covariance. plasma renin activity did not interfere with the relationships between calcium metabolic indices and blood pressure, nor were there any associations between the renin status and the calcium metabolic indices. these findings suggest that a low concentration of plasma ionized calcium is an independent risk factor for vascular disease.
an enhancer variant of moloney murine leukemia virus defective in leukemogenesis does not generate detectable mink cell focus-inducing virus in vivo [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 jun 1;88(11):5066] moloney murine leukemia virus (mo-mulv) induces t-cell lymphoma when inoculated into neonatal mice. this is a multistep process. early events observed in infected mice include generalized hematopoietic hyperplasia in the spleen and appearance of mink cell focus-inducing (mcf) recombinants; end-stage tumors are characterized by insertional proviral activation of protooncogenes. we previously showed that an mo-mulv enhancer variant, mo+pyf101 mo-mulv, has greatly reduced leukemogenicity and is deficient in induction of preleukemic hyperplasia. in this report, we have examined mo+pyf101 mo-mulv-inoculated mice for the presence of mcf recombinants. in contrast to wild-type mo-mulv-inoculated mice, mo+pyf101 mo-mulv-inoculated mice did not generate detectable mcf recombinants. this failure was at least partly due to an inability of the mcf virus to propagate in vivo, since a molecularly cloned infectious mo+pyf101 mcf virus did not replicate, even when inoculated as a mo+pyf101 mo-mulv pseudotype. these results show that the leukemogenic defect of mo+pyf101 mo-mulv is associated with its inability to generate mcf recombinants capable of replication in vivo. this, in turn, is consistent with the view that mcf recombinants play a significant role in mo-mulv-induced disease and, in particular, may play a role early in the disease process.
the acute and insidious onset of pulmonary metastatic transitional cell carcinoma. transitional cell carcinoma is a common urologic neoplasm. although pulmonary metastases from this tumor are often not appreciated clinically, they are frequently documented in autopsy studies. therefore, the clinical recognition of this condition can be problematic. to illustrate this point, we present three patients with progressive unexplained dyspnea and histories of transitional cell carcinoma. since ineffective and possibly detrimental therapeutic approaches may be initiated, a high index of suspicion for pulmonary metastatic embolization must be maintained. early histologic identification of these metastatic emboli and initiation of effective chemotherapy may prove beneficial for improved quality of life.
stage iv neuroblastoma in infants. long-term survival. before the advent of multiagent chemotherapy, the prognosis for patients with stage iv neuroblastoma of all ages was dismal. more recently, marked improvement in infants with stage iv neuroblastoma has been reported. twenty-four infants with stage iv neuroblastoma have been treated at the dana-farber cancer institute/the children's hospital, and the joint center for radiation therapy, boston, massachusetts, between 1970 and 1988. twenty-three of these patients were treated with multiagent chemotherapy and one with a single drug. in the initial report, ten of 11 patients were alive without evidence of disease after intensive therapy. in this report the authors update their initial series of patients and include 13 additional patients who subsequently presented to our institutions with stage iv neuroblastoma younger than 1 year of age. the 5-year actuarial event-free survival for the 24 patients is 75%. no patient without bone metastases died from neuroblastoma, and 12 of 16 patients with bone metastases remained disease free. these results confirm that infants with stage iv neuroblastoma have a very good prognosis when treated with intensive multiagent chemotherapy.
elevation of skeletal muscle isoform of serum creatine kinase in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. serum creatine kinase (ck) is an important adjunct in the diagnosis of myocardial infarction or in monitoring for the side-effects of drugs. we report elevation of ck in patients with untreated heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (fh) with no evidence of myocardial infarction. of a group of 30 patients, 60% had elevated ck values on one occasion. in 40% of patients elevated ck activity was observed on most occasions. this was not related to exercise or previous lipid-lowering therapy. these observations are of importance in view of the potential for misdiagnosis of myocardial infarction or premature withdrawal of lipid-lowering therapy.
successful mitral valvuloplasty using the inoue balloon in a patient with mitral stenosis associated with subvalvular fibrosis and reduced left ventricular inflow cavity: a case report. percutaneous transvenous mitral valvuloplasty (ptmv) was performed with two cylindric pigtail balloon catheters in a 52-year-old woman with symptomatic mitral stenosis. the subvalvular apparatus was fibrous with welded chordae and the subvalvular left ventricular space was markedly reduced. as a result of this distorted anatomy, during the inflations, the two balloons constantly slipped back into the left atrium before full inflation was obtained. after the procedure, the mitral valve area (mva), as estimated by echo-doppler (ed), increased from 1.00 to 1.34 cm2. after 2 months of mild clinical improvement, the patient again became symptomatic and ed examination showed a mva of 1.25 cm2. a second ptmv was performed with an inoue balloon, the entire procedure taking less than 1 hour. a stable position of the inoue balloon and complete dilatation were achieved. ed examination showed a mitral valve area of 2.30 cm2. there was no mitral regurgitation nor atrial septal defect. after 3 months, she has only n.y.h.a. class i symptoms and mva, as estimated by ed, was 2.40 cm2.
systemic and local administration of cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis. since 1984, cyclosporine has been used increasingly for indications other than in prophylaxis of transplant rejection. current awareness that psoriasis is, at least in part, a t cell-mediated condition has led to the initiation of several studies of cyclosporine's role in the treatment of this disease. the remarkable efficacy of systemically administered cyclosporine, even in severely refractory cases of psoriasis, has not only provided us with a new therapeutic option but also has helped further our understanding of the pathophysiology of psoriasis. although it has been hailed as a breakthrough, systemic cyclosporine usage is associated with undesirable sequelae, principally hypertension and decreased renal function. these effects limit its more widespread use. this review assesses current knowledge of the capabilities and prospects of systemic cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis, as well as the status of topical preparations.
abnormal processing of pro-igf-ii in patients with hepatoma and in some hepatitis b virus antibody-positive asymptomatic individuals. hepatomas are a common malignancy in countries with a high prevalence of hepatitis b virus infections. these tumors may present with severe persistent hypoglycemia. we have studied the possible relationship of production of insulin-like growth factor ii (igf-ii) by these tumors and the development of hypoglycemia. mean igf-ii concentration was not significantly higher in 23 patients with hypoglycemia than in nine patients with euglycemia (542 +/- 61 [se] micrograms/l vs 382 +/- 52 micrograms/l). serum igf-i was more suppressed in patients with hypoglycemia (16 +/- 3 micrograms/l) than in patients with euglycemia (57 +/- 18 micrograms/l). because an increased percentage of igf-ii in serum of patients with hypoglycemia who have other tumors is present as partially processed pro-igf-ii ("big" igf-ii), we passed sera of patients with hypoglycemia and patients with euglycemia with hepatomas through acidic bio-gel p-60 columns. we found that 57% +/- 4.6% of the igf-ii in sera from patients with hypoglycemia was present as big igf-ii compared with 22% +/- 3% in patients with euglycemia with hepatomas (not significantly different from that in normal controls). four of 11 apparently healthy control subjects who were hepatitis b virus positive also had increased percentages of big igf-ii, suggesting that abnormal processing of pro-igf-ii may result from subtle changes in liver function with this infection. it remains to be determined whether these subjects with increased big igf-ii are at increased risk for the development of hepatomas. in conclusion, we have confirmed marked suppression of igf-i in the sera of patients with hepatoma and hypoglycemia.
the need for quality assurance in vascular surgery. the need for quality assurance in vascular surgery can be deduced from the variability in unruptured abdominal aneurysm operative death rates in a group of patients large enough that factors influencing mortality rates other than quality of care can be controlled. operative mortality rate for 3570 patients undergoing unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm repair was determined for all non-veterans administration surgeons and hospitals in new york state from 1985 to 1987. the average annual number of aneurysm operations per surgeon was 3.6, and per hospital it was 10.2. unruptured aneurysm repair mortality for surgeons performing 1 to 5 aneurysm operations per year was 10% whereas for surgeons performing more than 26 aneurysm operations per year it was 6% (p less than 0.0001). unruptured aneurysm repair mortality for hospitals performing 1 to 5 aneurysm operations per year was 14% and for hospitals performing more than 38 aneurysm operations per year it was 5% (p less than 0.0001). even when these mortality rates were adjusted for differences in patient age, severity of illness, secondary diagnoses and admission status, significant mortality rate differences persisted: 9% versus 4% for low and high volume surgeons, respectively (p less than 0.001), and 12% versus 5% for low and high volume hospitals, respectively (p less than 0.001). surgeons who performed more than 7 aneurysm operations per year devoted more of their practice to aortic (11%) and vascular operations (52%) than did surgeons who performed 7 or fewer aneurysm operations per year (2% and 19%, respectively).
diabetic nephropathy: can the natural history be modified? those diabetic patients who progress to advanced kidney disease constitute a subpopulation that is particularly vulnerable to the angiotoxic effects of the insulin-dependent disorder. until the predisposing factors are identified, the most effective way to arrest renal deterioration is by controlling those currently recognized risk factors that accelerate the glomerulopathy. treatments that normalize blood pressure, reduce dietary protein intake, and control hyperglycemia have been shown to retard the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
interictal spikes and hippocampal somatostatin levels in temporal lobe epilepsy. we investigated the relationship between somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (ssli) and interictal spikes (iis) in human temporal lobe epileptic tissue. iis counted manually from depth electrode recordings obtained preoperatively were expressed as spike frequency in anterior, middle, and posterior portions of hippocampus. ssli was determined by radioimmunoassay (ria). an inverse relationship between ssli in the entorhinal cortex (ec) and iis frequency in hippocampus was present (r = -0.55, p = 0.06). no correlation between iis and ssli in ca4, ca3, ca1, or the dentate was evident. this finding suggests a role of the ec in generation, regulation, or expression of interictal paroxysmal electrical activity in temporal lobe epilepsy (tle), for which somatostatin may be a marker.
additional salutary hemodynamic effects of the combined use of the paraaortic counterpulsation device and intraaortic balloon pump versus a paraaortic counterpulsation device alone. the hemodynamic effects of the combined use of the paraaortic counterpulsation device (pacd) (stroke volume 65 ml) implanted on the ascending aorta, and a 20 ml intraaortic balloon pump (iabp) placed in the descending aorta, were compared with the pacd working alone in 12 dogs after the induction of heart failure. heart failure was characterized by left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (lvedp) greater than 18 mmhg and systolic aortic pressure (sap) in stage a: 116 mmhg greater than or equal to sap greater than 70 mmhg; in stage b: 70 mmhg greater than or equal to sap greater than 30 mmhg; and in stage c: sap less than or equal to 30 mmhg. both modalities of mechanical assistance produced significant salutary hemodynamic effects in stages a and b. no difference was observed in stage c. in conclusion, the combined use of pacd and iabp is more effective than the use of either of these devices alone. this modality of mechanical assistance may easily be applied in patients that cannot be weaned from extracorporeal circulation, and in whom iabp was unsuccessfully applied.
chronic pain--assessment of orthopedic physical therapists' knowledge and attitudes. orthopedic physical therapists' knowledge of pain mechanisms and methods of pain management and their attitudes toward working with patients with benign chronic pain were studied. a random sample of 500 members of the american physical therapy association's section on orthopaedics received by mail a 36-item questionnaire. statistical analysis of scores, using frequencies, means, and correlations was performed on the 119 (23.8%) usable returns. all but 4% of the respondents preferred to work with patients who are not likely to have chronic pain. seventy-two percent believed their entry-level education in pain management and theory was very inadequate or less than adequate to deal with an orthopedic patient population. pain knowledge scores were low (35.8 out of 46 points), and the scores on positive attitudes toward treating patients with benign chronic pain were lower (20.5 out of 36 points). the study suggests specific deficiencies in orthopedic physical therapists' knowledge of clinical pain mechanisms and management and potentially undesirable attitudes toward treating patients with chronic pain.
acute pulmonary oedema following administration of ornithine-8-vasopressin. we report the case of a patient who developed acute pulmonary oedema following a short and uneventful surgical procedure. among the differential diagnoses, the role of ornithine-8-vasopressin is emphasized.
prognostic indices for tumor relapse and tumor mortality in follicular thyroid carcinoma. to establish an objective basis for therapeutic decisions and follow-up programs in patients with follicular thyroid cancer, the authors developed a prognostic scoring system. the prognostic impact of nine clinical, histologic, and therapeutic parameters was quantified retrospectively based on a multivariate analysis covering 149 patients. the relative relapse risk in follicular thyroid cancer (rr) was 6.8-fold increased in the presence of a moderate when compared with a high degree of histologic tumor differentiation. the rr rose with increasing age of the patient at time of tumor diagnosis by a factor of 1.8 per 20 years. the rr was reduced by a factor of 4.3 after the performance of a neck dissection and by a factor of 2.3 after percutaneous radiation therapy of the neck. the relative mortality risk in follicular thyroid cancer (rm) rose in the absence of a tumor capsule by a factor of 10, in the presence of a moderate compared with a high degree of histologic tumor differentiation by a factor of 5.9, in the presence of distant metastases by a factor of 3.2, and with increasing age of the patient at the time of tumor diagnosis by a factor of 2.2 per 20 years. from these data prognostic indices denoting the individual risk for tumor relapse (irr index) and tumor mortality (imr index) were calculated. the indices categorize patients into low-risk, medium-risk, or high-risk groups with regard to tumor relapse and tumor-related death. consequently, the irr and imr indices contribute to select patients with follicular thyroid cancer who need an aggressive form of treatment and an intensive follow-up program. the indices may also be used for risk stratification in prospective therapy trials.
giant carotid-ophthalmic artery aneurysms: direct clipping utilizing the "trapping-evacuation" technique. the authors have devised a "trapping-evacuation" technique to facilitate direct clipping of giant aneurysms in the paraophthalmic region of the internal carotid artery (ica). the giant aneurysm is collapsed by first trapping the aneurysm by temporary occlusion of the cervical common carotid and external carotid arteries, along with temporary clipping of the intracranial ica distal to the aneurysm. thereafter, intra-aneurysmal blood is simultaneously aspirated through a catheter placed in the cervical ica. exposure of the proximal end of the aneurysm neck is mandatory for successful clipping. this is accomplished by extensive unroofing of the optic canal, removal of the anterior clinoid process, opening of the anterior part of the cavernous sinus, and exposure of the most proximal intradural (c2) and genu (c3) portions of the ica. four cases of giant aneurysms of the paraophthalmic ica were successfully treated by this technique and the postoperative outcome was good in all cases. preoperative magnetic resonance imaging for evaluation of the anatomical details, balloon occlusion test of the ica, and intraoperative measurement of cortical blood flow were important to the success of the operation. intraoperative digital subtraction angiography via the catheter placed in the cervical ica was useful in confirming successful clipping.
nucleolar organizer regions in precancerous and cancerous lesions of the bronchus. using a silver staining technique, nucleolar organizer region-associated proteins (ag-nor) were studied in paraffin sections of five specimens of normal bronchial epithelium, eight of atypical squamous metaplasia, five of carcinoma in situ, and seven of microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma. the mean number of ag-nor in the nucleus were normal epithelium 1.2 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- sd), atypical squamous metaplasia (borderline lesion) 2.2 +/- 0.5, carcinoma in situ 3.8 +/- 0.6, and microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma 4.8 +/- 1.1. there was a highly significant difference between the ag-nor numbers in the atypical squamous metaplasia and those in the carcinoma in situ (p less than 0.01). the ag-nor staining is a useful technique for the differential diagnosis of difficult borderline lesions in the bronchial epithelium.
beneficial effect of atrial pacing in severe acute aortic regurgitation and role of m-mode echocardiography in determining the optimal pacing interval. the effect of atrial pacing on cardiac performance was assessed in 11 men (aged 20 to 64 years) with recent-onset severe aortic regurgitation (ar), all of whom had diastolic closure of the mitral valve on the echocardiogram. thermodilution cardiac outputs were determined, and aortic, left ventricular and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures recorded. once baseline recordings were completed, the pacing rate was increased by increments of 10 beats/min (70, 80, 90...) to a maximal rate of 140 beats/min. the optimal pacing interval, obtained from hemodynamic data, was defined as that at which the lowest filling pressure was associated with the highest cardiac index. this was then compared with a pacing interval derived from the r wave of the electrocardiogram to the diastolic mitral closing point on the m-mode echocardiogram. such an interval would shorten diastole without affecting forward mitral flow. atrial pacing improved the overall hemodynamic state in all patients; the most favorable hemodynamics were achieved at heart rates between 110 and 130 beats/min (mean: 120 +/- 8). at the optimal rate, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 46 +/- 7 to 23 +/- 12 mm hg (p less than 0.001), and the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 28 +/- 8 to 16 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.001), while the cardiac index increased from 2.34 +/- 0.46 to 2.63 +/- 0.49 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.01). the mean difference between the optimal pacing interval determined from the hemodynamic data and the interval derived from the echocardiogram was 18 +/- 21 ms.
hemolysis due to branch pulmonary stenosis after the arterial switch procedure. an infant with d-transposition of the great arteries underwent arterial switch operation using the modified jatene technique. severe bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and mechanical hemolysis subsequently developed. the hemolysis resolved after surgical repair of the stenotic arteries. probable causes are discussed.
anencephaly: clinical determination of brain death and neuropathologic studies. twelve liveborn anencephalic infants were serially examined to determine if they would meet our clinical criteria for whole brain death within a 7-day period: protocol 1 infants (6) received intensive care including intubation from birth; and protocol 2 infants (6) received intensive care during the period in which death was imminent. brain death was determined by absence of brainstem function, including loss of all cranial nerve responses and sustained apnea (pco2 greater than 60 torr) for 48 hours with confirmation of findings by an outside consulting child neurologist. the initial examinations of these 12 infants revealed spontaneous movements and startle myoclonus (12), suck, root, and gag responses (7), increased tone (8), deep tendon reflexes (9), absent pupillary responses (9), absent oculocephalic and corneal responses (6), absent auditory/moro responses (7), and nonvisualization of the optic nerve (8). mild depression of neurologic function occurred during the first several days of life; subsequently, the infants' responses were easier to elicit and more sustained. only 2 infants met the clinical criteria for brain death. neuropathologic findings indicated that observed complex motor responses were not based upon cortical activity because no infant had a normally-formed cerebrum. brainstem neuronal activity may have accounted for these motor responses in some patients but even at this level neurons were scanty or absent. our findings suggest that, although rare, clinical brain death can be determined in liveborn anencephalic infants; ophthalmologic and otologic developmental abnormalities may confound examination of cranial nerve function; and absence of cortical neurons supports the widely held opinion that these infants do not experience sensation.
adenovirus 12s e1a gene represses differentiation of f9 teratocarcinoma cells. the f9 teratocarcinoma cell line differentiates in vitro after treatment with retinoic acid and camp and has been a widely used model system for the study of the molecular events that are responsible for cellular commitment and differentiation during early development. previous experiments have suggested intriguing parallels between the control of gene expression during f9 cell differentiation and the regulation of gene expression by adenovirus e1a. transfection of a 12s e1a-expressing plasmid into terminally differentiated, nonproliferating f9 cells generates, at high frequency, colonies of dividing cells, each of which expresses e1a. cell lines established from these colonies proliferate in the presence of retinoic acid and have lost the fully differentiated phenotype as characterized by the absence of expression of a series of differentiation-specific genes. we conclude that expression of the viral 12s e1a gene product interferes with retinoic acid-induced f9 cell differentiation. moreover, the results suggest that the differentiation process, as defined by markers of terminal differentiation, may not be a permanent event but can be reversed by e1a expression.
recurrent pain, illness intrusiveness, and quality of life in end-stage renal disease. repeated episodes of headache and muscle cramp were hypothesized to contribute to increased patient perceptions of illness intrusiveness and to compromised quality of life. standard measures of pain, illness intrusiveness, and quality of life were obtained on 2 occasions, each 6 weeks apart, from 100 end-stage renal disease patients. the impact of recurrent muscle cramps on perceptions of illness intrusiveness was conditional upon the occurrence of headache symptoms. perceptions of illness intrusiveness were significantly higher when both muscle cramp and headache symptoms occurred during one or more assessment intervals as compared to when muscle cramps or headaches, only, occurred. illness-related concerns and general feelings of pessimism were also significantly higher among patients who experienced recurrent episodes of muscle cramp. although no direct relations were observed between pain and other quality of life indicators, previous research has documented a relation between illness intrusiveness and quality of life. recurrent pain problems, thus, appear to contribute to increased illness intrusiveness and to reduced quality of life in end-stage renal disease patients.
monitoring of cortical blood flow during temporary arterial occlusion in aneurysm surgery by the thermal diffusion method. during aneurysm surgery, regional cortical blood flow (cobf) was continuously monitored in 12 patients with a thermal diffusion flow probe in an attempt to assess the effects of temporary major arterial occlusion on blood flow and outcome. when the cobf was above 30 ml/100 g/min, the safe period for temporary clipping applied distal to the perforators was 15 minutes. the occlusion time should be shortened when the cobf is below 30 ml/100 g/min. two patients suffered basal infarction, which was not detected by cobf monitoring. attention should be paid to the blood flow in the deep structures when a temporary clip is applied at a site proximal to the perforating branches. direct measurement of cobf may be of value in estimating the time that temporary occlusion of a major vessel can be tolerated.
doppler echocardiographic assessment of the st. jude medical prosthetic valve in the aortic position using the continuity equation. to test whether the continuity equation can be applied to the noninvasive assessment of prosthetic aortic valve function, doppler echocardiography was performed in 67 patients (mean age, 58 +/- 14 years) within 10 +/- 6 days after valve replacement with st. jude medical valves. all patients were clinically stable and without evidence of valve dysfunction. valve size ranged from 19 to 31 mm, and ejection fraction ranged from 30% to 75%. with the parasternal long-axis view, the left ventricular outflow diameter measured just proximal to the prosthetic valve correlated well with valve size (r = 0.92). doppler-derived maximal gradients ranged from 9 to 71 mm hg. effective prosthetic aortic valve area by the continuity equation ranged between 0.73 cm2 for a 19-mm valve and 4.23 cm2 for a 31-mm valve. with analysis of variance, effective orifice area differentiated various valve sizes (p less than 10(-14)) better than did gradients alone (p = 0.003) and correlated better with actual valve orifice area (r = 0.83 versus - 0.40). a doppler velocity index, the ratio of peak velocity in the left ventricular outflow to that of the aortic jet, averaged 0.41 +/- 0.09 and was less dependent on valve size (r = 0.43). thus, the continuity equation can be applied to the assessment of prosthetic st. jude valves in the aortic position. by accounting for flow through the valve, it provides an improved assessment over the sole use of gradients in the evaluation of prosthetic valve function.
recombinant ifn-alpha in lymphomas. the effectiveness of interferon (ifn) therapy in malignant lymphoma is analyzed in this review. although various treatment regimens including ifn at various dose levels have so far not proved to have curative potential, a substantial palliative effect has been noted in hairy-cell leukemia and in some non-hodgkin lymphomas of low-grade malignancy. early stages of lymphoma disease are more responsive to ifn therapy, and this holds true also for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, in which ifn treatment is usually not effective in progressed disease after chemotherapy. concepts of early-phase treatment and of remission maintenance by using ifn therapy are discussed on the basis of the data from several studies.
postoperative urinary tract infection in gynecology: implications for an antibiotic prophylaxis policy. a prospective observational study of postoperative infection after gynecologic surgery assessed the need for antibiotic prophylaxis with special reference to the urinary tract. catheterization requirements in the postoperative period were compared with the development of urinary tract infection after excluding both preoperative and postoperative bacteriuria. forty-six of 115 patients (40%) developed a urinary tract infection in the postoperative period. furthermore, this was not clearly related to the need for postoperative catheterization. significant wound and vaginal vault infections were uncommon, indicating that antibiotic prophylaxis should be directed specifically at the urinary tract.
endoscopic management of early supraglottic cancer. an initial endoscopic surgical approach to early supraglottic cancer provides the surgeon with the ability to accurately stage these lesions, avoiding possible undertreatment while allowing for a valuable treatment option for those supraglottic cancers with histologically incontrovertibly superficial disease. early invasion of the preepiglottic and paraglottic spaces can be determined accurately without altering or delaying any treatment option (open surgical excision, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy). the tendency of supraglottic cancers to transgress the natural foramina of the epiglottis is well established, and the concern about this depth of invasion is reflected by the 1977 revised staging criteria, which required assessment of the preepiglottic space (pes). along with the microscope and the carbon dioxide laser, the adjustable supraglottiscope facilitates the determination of pes invasion and facilitates en bloc excision of superficial supraglottic cancers. the resulting morbidity typically is no different from that with routine direct endoscopy and biopsy.
ischemia and reperfusion during intermittent coronary occlusion in man. studies of electrocardiographic changes and cpk release. the course of 357 balloon inflations performed during 38 angioplasties for single-vessel coronary artery disease was prospectively studied using continuous ecg recording. ischemic ecg changes appeared during 91 percent of the inflations at a mean of 20 +/- 8 seconds after inflation and resolved in 97 percent of those at a mean of 11 +/- 5 seconds after deflation. elevation of the plasma cpk level was found in six patients who had ischemic ecg changes for at least 7.8 minutes. the duration of ischemia did not exceed 5.4 minutes in any of the patients without cpk elevation. resolution of the ischemic changes was delayed in patients with cpk elevation and in last vs initial inflations. we conclude that in patients with noninfarcted myocardium, ecg changes follow coronary occlusion and reflow very rapidly, detecting these coronary events with a high sensitivity. lack of rapid regression predicts lack of reperfusion, and persistence of ischemia for more than 7.8 minutes is sufficient to cause myocardial necrosis.
high-dose cisplatin plus dacarbazine in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. the combination of cisplatin plus dacarbazine (dtic) is active in metastatic melanoma with response rates reported between 10% and 55%. to optimize this regimen, a phase ii study was conducted employing a dose intensity of cisplatin higher than previously reported. twenty-two patients were treated. eight patients received cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 combined with dtic 300 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, 8 and 9 (regimen a). because of excessive toxicity, the protocol was modified so that cisplatin was given at 50 mg/m2 per day and dtic 350 mg/m2 per day on days 1 through 3 (regimen b). the overall response rate was 32% and consisted of four partial and three complete responses (cr). the median duration of response was 6 months. two of the cr remain in sustained, unmaintained remission in excess of 1.5 years. all seven patients that responded were treated on regimen b. high-dose cisplatin plus dtic on a 3-day schedule represents an effective, well-tolerated therapy for metastatic melanoma.
surgical treatment of low rectovaginal fistulas. forty women with low rectovaginal fistulas were operated upon over a 9-year period. the etiology of the fistula in the majority was obstetric. nine women had prior attempts to repair the fistula. all 40 women were managed with endorectal advancement flap with the addition of sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction in 15 patients and rectocele repair in six patients. postoperative complications included urinary difficulties (two patients) and wound complications (three patients). there were two recurrences. all women treated with sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction were continent. seven women complained of varying degrees of incontinence postoperatively; none had undergone sphincter or perineal body reconstruction. endorectal advancement flap is a safe and effective operation for women with rectovaginal fistulas. concomitant sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction should be performed in women with historical, physical, or manometric evidence of incontinence.
loss of expression of blood group antigen h is associated with cellular invasion and spread of oral squamous cell carcinomas. membrane-bound carbohydrates may influence the metastatic behavior of cancer cells. forty-two squamous cell carcinomas (scc) of the buccal and maxillary alveolar mucosa were studied retrospectively using a monoclonal antibody (be2) that reacts with blood group h (type 2 chain) structure and an immunoperoxidase (avidin-biotin peroxidase complex) staining technique. h-antigen staining within the entire tumor did not correlate with the stage of the tumor, i.e., tumor spread. however, loss of staining within the most invasive sites of the tumors correlated significantly with the stage of tumor development and histologic grade of malignancy. these findings support the view that features regarding the cells of deeper parts of the carcinomas are very important for the clinical behavior of the tumors and that loss of h-antigen expression is related to the stage of the tumor and invasion of carcinoma cells.
developing improved observational methods for evaluating therapeutic effectiveness. therapeutic efficacy is often studied with observational surveys of patients whose treatments were selected nonexperimentally. the results of these surveys are distrusted because of the fear that biased results occur in the absence of experimental principles, particularly randomization. the purpose of the current study was to develop and validate improved observational study designs by incorporating many of the design principles and patient assembly procedures of the randomized trial. the specific topic investigated was the prophylactic effectiveness of beta-blocker therapy after an acute myocardial infarction. to accomplish the research objective, three sets of data were compared. first, we developed a restricted cohort based on the eligibility criteria of the randomized clinical trial; second, we assembled an expanded cohort using the same design principles except for not restricting patient eligibility; and third, we used the data from the beta blocker heart attack trial (bhat), whose results served as the gold standard for comparison. in this research, the treatment difference in death rates for the restricted cohort and the bhat trial was nearly identical. in contrast, the expanded cohort had a larger treatment difference than was observed in the bhat trial. we also noted the important and largely neglected role that eligibility criteria may play in ensuring the validity of treatment comparisons and study outcomes. the new methodologic strategies we developed may improve the quality of observational studies and may be useful in assessing the efficacy of the many medical/surgical therapies that cannot be tested with randomized clinical trials.
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin. a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described. the principal presenting symptoms are malaise, fever, and weight loss, although a wide variety of complaints are documented. pulmonary involvement is uncommon. the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate. there is no evidence of an associated arteritis. the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs, particularly if the kidneys are involved, the prognosis is relatively good. we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin. the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed. the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition. it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis. first, it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients. secondly, it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise.
"prokinetic" treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome: a placebo-controlled study of cisapride. the effects of prokinetic treatment with cisapride in patients with constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) were evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. sixty-nine ibs patients were assigned to a 12-week treatment with either 5 mg cisapride or placebo t.i.d.; this dosage could be changed if necessary. the mean weekly number of days on which a stool was passed in the cisapride and placebo group increased to 5.3 and 4.4 (p less than 0.05) during weeks 8-12 of treatment, and the number of days with stools of normal consistency increased to 3.5 and 1.9 (p less than 0.05), respectively. at week 12, the reduction in severity and frequency scores for abdominal pain was significantly greater (p less than or equal to 0.05) in the cisapride group (60 and 61%) than in the placebo group (40 and 32%), as it was for abdominal distension (p less than 0.05). cisapride tended to be better than placebo in diminishing flatulence. in 71% versus 39% of the patients the overall rating for the response to treatment was good or excellent at week 12. cisapride was well tolerated. these results suggest that the drug will be useful for the management of constipation-predominant ibs.
changes in interferon receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b being treated with interferon. we studied the binding of 125i-labeled human interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells and the activity of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase in peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from 21 patients with chronic hepatitis b who were treated with human interferon-alpha or interferon-beta. fourteen patients were given interferon daily for 4 wk. interferon receptors per cell decreased to about 50% of baseline but increased to baseline by 2 wk after therapy ended. the activity of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase rose about fivefold during therapy, decreasing to baseline by 1 wk after the end of therapy. the seven other patients were given interferon daily for 2 wk, no interferon for 2 wk and then interferon daily for 2 wk more. during both periods of therapy on this schedule, interferon receptors decreased to about 50% but returned to baseline 1 wk after the interferon was stopped. the activity of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase increased about fivefold during both the first and second periods of therapy and decreased to baseline 1 wk after interferon was stopped. close negative correlation existed between the number of interferon receptors and the 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase activity. the results of interferon therapy could not be predicted by either the numbers of interferon receptors before therapy or by the decrease in this number during therapy.
efficacy of biofeedback training in improving faecal incontinence and anorectal physiologic function. the efficacy of biofeedback treatment on faecal incontinence and anorectal function was evaluated in eight patients with faecal incontinence treated with biofeedback training and medical therapy. outcome and anorectal function were compared with nine faecal incontinent patients who received medical therapy alone. three month follow up showed that 50% of patients in the biofeedback plus conventional treatment group and 56% of those treated conventionally only had improved. one year follow up showed that 13% in the biofeedback group were free of soiling and an additional 25% had improved. the results were similar in the conventionally treated group--11% were free of soiling and an additional 44% improved. anal pressures at rest and squeeze, the rectal distension volume that induced sustained inhibition of both the external and internal anal sphincter, and continence to rectally infused saline were significantly reduced in both groups of patients compared with controls (p less than 0.05). biofeedback treatment had no effect on these abnormal anorectal functions in either patients who improved or those who did not. the improvement in faecal incontinence was probably due to medical intervention or regression of symptoms with time, or both, and not the result of biofeedback training.
pulmonary metastases from ameloblastoma of the mandible treated with cisplatin, adriamycin, and cyclophosphamide. a case of delayed pulmonary metastases from an ameloblastoma of the mandible, which occurred 20 years after surgical resection of the primary tumor but with no recurrence at the primary site, is reported. combination chemotherapy using cisplatin, adriamycin, and cyclophosphamide has produced a very good clinical and radiologically documented response in this case.
treatment of status migrainosus: the american experience. dependence upon a variety of drugs--ergotamine, analgesics, benzodiazepines, corticosteroids--is a major reason for patients to enter an intractable phase of their migrainous disorders. repeated dosing of dihydroergotamine has proven to be remarkably effective in stabilizing the mechanism of migraine, allowing these patients to make the transition to a more reasonable as well as more specific form of therapy.
stenosis of the sphincter of oddi. "stenosing papillitis" is a descriptive term for an anatomic deformity of the papilla of vater that is characterized by narrowing of the lower end of the bile duct and the proximal end of the duct of wirsung. the defect is secondary to inflammation and fibrosis from the chronic passage of gallstones, episodes of acute pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis, sclerosing cholangitis, peptic ulcer disease, and cholesterolosis. patients with papillary stenosis from gallstones may present with episodes of severe upper-abdominal pain several years after cholecystectomy. the pain is often incapacitating, and patients are often addicted to narcotic analgesics. the work-up includes abdominal ultrasonography and ct scanning and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography even though the findings usually are normal. liver and pancreatic enzymes are not frequently elevated with the painful episodes. transendoscopic manometry may reveal elevated pressures within the papillary portion of the distal bile duct. some patients are relieved of their pain by transduodenal sphincteroplasty and transampullary septectomy, thereby ablating the sphincter of oddi around the bile and pancreatic ducts and enlarging their openings.
bronchoalveolar lavage analysis in wegener's granulomatosis. a method to study disease pathogenesis. a prospective analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) in 13 patients with wegener's granulomatosis (wg), 20 disease control subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf), and 24 normal control subjects was conducted to (1) evaluate the quality of the alveolar inflammatory response associated with active wg; (2) determine whether antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca) is present in alveolar fluid and produced in the lungs of patients with wg; and (3) determine whether inhaled particles or infectious agents may play an etiologic role in wg. bal in untreated active wg had a marked increase in neutrophils (mean = 42% of total wbc count), and usually in eosinophils (mean = 4%) compared with that in normal control subjects (1.6% neutrophils, 0% eosinophils), and untreated wg in remission (5.9% neutrophils, 0% eosinophils). disease control subjects with ipf, a process known to be associated with neutrophilic alveolitis, had an increased population of neutrophils (15.4%) and eosinophils (2.7%) in bal. leukocyte remnants, as well as intact leukocytes, could be identified within bal macrophages in the patients with wg and ipf, and rarely in the normal control subjects. normal subjects and control patients with ipf were all negative for anca in serum, whereas anca was found in serum and bal in all patients with active wg who had generalized disease. protein analysis of bal revealed a disproportionate increase in the igg to albumin ration compared with serum values (igg index) in patients with active untreated disease. the increase in the igg index suggests that igg with anca reactivity is produced by pulmonary lymphoid tissue. an infectious agent in bal was not identified by any of the techniques applied in this study.
outpatient flexible cystoscopy and fulguration of recurrent superficial bladder tumors. flexible cystoendoscopy and fulguration were used in the outpatient management of 185 patients with superficial bladder tumors followed for 24 months. this method provided optimal surveillance for recurrence and successful tumor control in selected cases.
multiple myeloma and acute megakaryoblast leukemia in spent phase polycythemia vera. the spontaneous and simultaneous occurrence of multiple myeloma and megakaryoblast leukemia with myelodysplastic features in a case of spent phase polycythemia vera is well documented. in support of the morphologic characteristics of the bone marrow, immunocytologic studies show proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells and megakaryoblasts. the cytogenetic findings of 20q- and unbalanced t(1;7) are consistent with myelodysplastic and leukemic transformation of the bone marrow. these transformations expand observations on variable and spontaneous lineage commitments as the consequence of alterations of the hematopoietic stem cell clone. these data are in support of the changing insights in hematopoiesis as a process of ordered commitment of the stem cell with sequential lineage potentials.
review of clinical experience with digoxin immune fab (ovine). following the development of methods for eliciting and purifying digoxin-specific fab fragments with high affinity and specificity for cardiac glycosides, clinical studies were undertaken as a multicenter, open-label trial to test safety and efficacy in patients with advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity that failed to respond to conventional therapeutic measures. one-hundred fifty such patients were treated with digoxin-specific antibody fragments purified from immunoglobulin g (igg) produced in sheep. doses of fab were equivalent to the amount of digoxin or digitoxin in the patient's body, as estimated from the medical history or serum concentration measurements. of 150 patients included in this trial, detailed information is available on 148. one-hundred nineteen (80%) had resolution of all signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity following specific fab fragment infusions, 14 (10%) improved, and 15 (10%) showed no response. among 14 patients with adverse events possibly or probably caused by fab, the most common events were development of hypokalemia and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. analysis of the available clinical data indicates that a treatment response was observed in at least 90% of patients with convincing evidence of advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity. the data from this multicenter trial have been augmented by findings from an observational surveillance study conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab (ovine) following commercial availability. in this experience, 74% of patients were judged to have a complete or partial response to treatment, and 12% no response. the response for the remaining 14% was not reported or reported as uncertain. in this clinical experience, digoxin-specific fab was generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients with potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity.
percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. when pancreatography shows a stenosis of the main pancreatic duct in patients with normal or inconclusive ultrasound and computed tomography, the exact nature of such stenosis is sometimes difficult to precise before surgical exploration. in such cases, the authors systematically performed a percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of the stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. fifteen patients were referred because of suspected pancreatic malignancy. the tumor markers, carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) and ca 19-9 were normal in 11 patients and elevated in one patient, whereas only ca 19-9 was elevated in three others. in 14 cases, both the ultrasound and computed tomography did not show any obvious pancreatic mass. the pancreatography was done through endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) (12 patients) or percutaneously in case of failure at ercp3 and showed a main pancreatic duct stenosis that underwent aspiration by percutaneous fine needle precisely positioned using biplane fluoroscopy. the aspirated material was then smeared on glass slides, air-dried, and stained by giemsa. in nine of the 15 patients, cytologic study revealed adenocarcinoma. this was confirmed by surgery in five and by progressive deterioration followed by death in four. in six patients, cytologic study gave a nonmalignant result. chronic pancreatitis was found in five of them, confirmed at surgery in three and based on uneventful follow-up of at least 12 months in two others. in one case, a pancreatic adenocarcinoma not detected by cytologic study was found at surgery. thus, the sensitivity and specificity of this diagnostic approach were 90% and 100%, respectively. no serious complication was noticed. the authors conclude that when ultrasound and computed tomography are inconclusive, percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance is a safe, simple, and helpful procedure in the investigation of patients with suspected pancreatic malignancy.
histopathologic spectrum of clinically atypical melanocytic nevi. ii. studies of nonfamilial melanoma [published erratum appears in arch dermatol 1990 dec;126(12):1616] we studied the clinically most atypical pigmented lesion removed from each of 142 patients with newly diagnosed sporadic melanoma. the specimens were categorized as to the type of nevus, ie, junctional or compound, presence of congenital features, and degree of nuclear atypicality--presence of nuclear enlargement, nuclear pleomorphism, hyperchromatism, and prominent nucleoli--of intraepidermal nevomelanocytes. the frequency of nuclear abnormality was graded as 1 (rare cells), 2 (10% to 50% of cells), or 3 (greater than 50% of cells) for each nuclear parameter. among all lesions, 42 (29.6%) were junctional nevi, 74 (52.1%) were compound nevi, and 14 (9.9%) were dermal nevi. eighteen percent of the total were either dysplastic nevi (23 cases) or malignant melanoma in situ (three cases). fourteen nevi (9.9%) had congenital features. there were 12 junctional and 39 compound nevi and one dermal nevus that exhibited nuclear abnormality, but only four junctional nevi compared with 19 compound nevi had sufficient atypia for a designation of dysplastic nevus. only two nevi with congenital features demonstrated any nuclear abnormality, and these were clearly nondysplastic. thus, among nevi surgically removed as the clinically most atypical lesion in this study, compound nevi were much more likely to demonstrate nuclear atypia (and dysplasia) than were other nevi, ie, junctional or dermal nevi, or nevi with congenital features.
correlation of free phenytoin to serum albumin in cancer patients. the objectives of this study were to compare the total and free phenytoin serum concentrations of cancer patients with hypoalbuminemia with those of cancer patients with normal serum albumin and to correlate the percentage of free phenytoin with the albumin concentration. a total of 22 patients were studied, 13 with normal albumin concentration and 9 with low albumin. the mean free phenytoin in the normal albumin group was 9.9 (+/- 1.3) percent and 17.6 (+/- 4.6) percent in the low albumin group. with the groups combined, the mean free phenytoin was 13.1 percent (range 8.3-22.2) with the albumin range of 20-45 g/l. there was a significant negative correlation (r = -0.9, p less than 0.001) between the percentage of free phenytoin and the measured serum albumin. in cancer patients, the serum albumin concentration appears to be the key factor that determines the percentage of free phenytoin. in cancer patients with low serum albumin concentration, the total and free phenytoin concentration should be measured for adequate assessment of phenytoin therapy.
role of tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. the role of staphylococcus aureus tolerance was investigated in endocarditis in rats. the efficacies of cloxacillin, gentamicin, and a combination of the two were compared for animals infected with a tolerant strain, its kill-sensitive variant, or a nonisogenic nontolerant strain of s. aureus. cloxacillin was significantly less effective for treating the tolerant than for the nontolerant strains. the addition of gentamicin to cloxacillin reduced bacterial numbers in endocardial vegetations for the tolerant strain comparable to the reduction by cloxacillin alone for the nontolerant strains, but had no additional effect for the nontolerant strains. isolates from animals infected with the tolerant or nontolerant strains during antibiotic treatment remained tolerant or nontolerant. these results show that the in vitro phenomenon of tolerance is relevant in vivo.
pharyngeal shape and dimensions in healthy subjects, snorers, and patients with obstructive sleep apnoea. to characterise the relation between pharyngeal anatomy and sleep related disordered breathing, 17 men with complaints of snoring were studied by all night polysomnography. ten of them had obstructive sleep apnoea (mean (sd) apnoea-hypopnoea index 56.3 (41.7), age 52 (10) years, body mass index 31.4 (5.3) kg/m2); whereas seven were simple snorers (apnoea-hypopnoea index 6.7 (4.6), age 40 (17) years, body mass index 25.9 (4.3) kg/m2). the pharynx was studied by magnetic resonance imaging in all patients and in a group of eight healthy subjects (age 27 (6) years, body mass index 21.8 (2.2) kg/m2, both significantly lower than in the patients; p less than 0.05). on the midsagittal section and six transverse sections equally spaced between the nasopharynx and the hypopharynx several anatomical measurements were performed. results showed that there was no difference between groups in most magnetic resonance imaging measurements, but that on transverse sections the pharyngeal cross section had an elliptic shape with the long axis oriented in the coronal plane in normal subjects, whereas in apnoeic and snoring patients the pharynx was circular or had an elliptic shape but with the long axis oriented in the sagittal plane. it is suggested that the change in pharyngeal cross sectional shape, secondary to a reduction in pharyngeal transverse diameter, may be related to the risk of developing sleep related disordered breathing.
relationship among level of distraction, evoked potentials, spinal cord ischemia and integrity, and clinical status in animals. somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps) were recorded after overdistraction of the spinal cord at t5-t6, t12-l1, or l3-l4. measures of spinal cord perfusion and clinical status were also administered. results indicated that stiffer spinal segments allowed less distraction than more flexible segments. seps and nmeps were lost quickly after overdistraction in stiff segments and slowly in more flexible segments. however, seps were less sensitive than nmeps to effects from overdistraction. spinal cord perfusion and integrity were consistent with reduced perfusion and structural damage after overdistraction in stiff segments; extremely reduced perfusion but no structural changes in more flexible segments. the application of these results to the clinical situation was provided.
role of mast cells in ion transport abnormalities associated with intestinal anaphylaxis. correction of the diminished secretory response in genetically mast cell-deficient w/wv mice by bone marrow transplantation. to investigate the role of mast cells in transport abnormalities during intestinal anaphylaxis, we examined responses to antigen in isolated intestinal preparations from ovalbumin-sensitized genetically mast cell-deficient wbb6f1-w/wv (w/wv) mice and congenic normal wbbgf1(-)+/+ (+/+) mice. changes in ion transport (primarily secretion of chloride ions) were indicated by increases in short-circuit current (isc). in tissues from +/+ mice, antigen caused increases in isc which were significantly inhibited by antagonists to histamine (diphenhydramine) and serotonin (ketanserin), by a cyclooxygenase inhibitor (piroxicam) and by a neurotoxin (tetrodotoxin). in preparations from w/wv mice, antigen-stimulated responses were approximately 30% of that in +/+ mice and were inhibited only by piroxicam. responses to electrical transmural stimulation of nerves were approximately 50% in w/wv versus +/+ mice, and were inhibited by antagonists of mast cell mediators in +/+ but not w/wv mice. reconstitution of mast cells in w/wv mice by intravenous injection of +/+ bone marrow cells restored the normal responses to both antigen and nerve stimulation. our results indicate that mast cell-dependent mechanisms are primarily responsible for the ion secretion associated with intestinal anaphylaxis, but that other cells are also involved. in addition, our data provide evidence for the functional importance of bidirectional communication between nerves and mast cells in the regulation of ion transport in the gastrointestinal tract.
rupture of arteriovenous fistula after in situ saphenous vein bypass. residual saphenous vein tributaries function as arteriovenous fistulas after in-situ lower extremity bypass. whether or not all of these tributaries need to be ligated at the time of bypass is controversial since many will close spontaneously. other consequences of retained fistulas range from local skin problems to diminished graft flow and ultimate graft thrombosis. a complication not previously reported is rupture of a retained arteriovenous fistula. this unusual and potentially catastrophic complication should be discoverable at an earlier stage by periodic graft surveillance by means of duplex sonography. the routine policy of selective ligation of saphenous vein tributaries needs to be reexamined.
microvascular pedal bypass for salvage of the severely ischemic limb bypass to the pedal arteries was performed with use of the operating microscope and standard microsurgical technique in 37 patients with severe, chronic ischemia of a lower extremity. twenty-one patients (57%) had three or more cardiovascular risk factors, and 22 (59%) had diabetes. preoperative arteriography identified a pedal artery suitable for bypass in all but one patient. the greater or lesser saphenous vein was used in all patients, most frequently as a nonreversed, translocated vein graft. an arm vein was used as part of a composite graft in only one patient. no early deaths occurred, and only one patient had a perioperative myocardial infarction. although five grafts occluded within 30 days, four were successfully revised, and 36 patients had a patent graft at the time of dismissal from the hospital. at 1 year, the primary graft patency rate (patency without revision) was 60.8%, and the secondary patency rate was 68.8%. one early and six late amputations were performed; the cumulative 1-year limb salvage rate was 82.4%. grafts with an intraoperative flow rate of 50 ml/min or more had a better patency rate than those with a lower flow rate. the presence of diabetes did not adversely affect long-term patency. of the 34 patients who were alive at the time of this report, 27 (79%) had a functional foot that allowed ambulation, had no rest pain, and had no substantial loss of tissue. pedal bypass should be considered for critical, chronic ischemia, even if the patient has an increased surgical risk and advanced distal atherosclerotic disease.
suppression of tumorigenicity in human colon carcinoma cells by introduction of normal chromosome 5 or 18. development of colon carcinomas can be associated with allelic deletions on several chromosomes, including 5q and 18q. the apc gene on 5q and the dcc gene on 18q have been identified as potential tumour suppressor genes, whose suppression contributes to colon carcinogenesis. to investigate the role of genes in these deleted regions, we have now introduced a single normal human chromosome into a human colon carcinoma cell line, cokfu, through microcell hybridization. several clones of hybrid cells containing normal chromosome 5, and others containing normal chromosome 18, were obtained. the morphology of the hybrid cells was markedly altered: the hybrids with chromosome 5 exhibited a closely packed polygonal morphology, and the hybrid cells with chromosome 18 were flattened. the cloning efficiency of the hybrid cells in soft agar was reduced from 0.46 to 0% of that of the parental carcinoma cells, and the tumorigenicity of these hybrid cells in athymic nude mice was completely suppressed. the growth properties of the hybrid cells with chromosome 11 were not substantially changed. these results strongly suggest that the genes on normal chromosome 5 and 18 function as tumour suppressors in colon carcinogenesis.
endorectal ultrasonographic staging of rectal carcinoma. endorectal ultrasonography is a valuable imaging method for examination of the rectum and perirectal tissues. we assessed 50 patients with known rectal carcinoma prospectively by using a 7.0-mhz endorectal transducer to determine the depth of invasion of the rectal wall by tumor and the presence of lymphadenopathy. tumors were staged by using the astler-coller modification of the dukes staging system, and the results were compared with histologic staging of the surgical specimen. ultrasonography had an accuracy of 80%, a sensitivity of 92%, and a specificity of 76% for detection of invasion of the perirectal fat. ultrasonography was sensitive in the detection of perirectal lymphadenopathy but was not specific in distinguishing benign from malignant nodes.
a six-amino acid deletion in basic fibroblast growth factor dissociates its mitogenic activity from its plasminogen activator-inducing capacity. a recombinant deletion mutant of the 155-amino acid form of human basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf), lacking amino acid residues 27-32 (lys-asp-pro-lys-arg-leu), was expressed in escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity by heparin-sepharose affinity chromatography. when maintained in the presence of an equimolar concentration of soluble heparin, the bfgf mutant (m1-bfgf) is as potent as bfgf in stimulating cell proliferation in normal and transformed fetal bovine aortic endothelial cells, in adult bovine aortic endothelial cells, and in nih 3t3 fibroblasts. however, under the same experimental conditions, m1-bfgf is at least 100 times less efficient than bfgf in stimulating plasminogen activator (pa) production in endothelial cells, as assayed by chromogenic pa assay, sds/page zymography, and northern blot analysis of urokinase-type pa mrna. in the presence of heparin, m1-bfgf binds to bfgf plasma membrane receptors present on endothelial cells in a manner undistinguishable from bfgf. it also induces the same tyrosine phosphorylation pattern when added to nih 3t3 cells. the data suggest that the pa-inducing activity of bfgf may depend upon a functional domain that differs from those involved in the mitogenic activity of the growth factor and that the binding of bfgf to its plasma membrane receptor may not be sufficient to induce urokinase-type pa production in endothelial cells.
a comparative study of naproxen sodium, pizotyline and placebo in migraine prophylaxis. 318 patients satisfying the ad hoc committee's criteria for common or classical migraine were entered into an 8 week single-blind placebo recording phase to establish, by diary cards, the frequency and severity of their attacks. 176 patients completed this and had records indicating 4-8 episodes in the 8 week period, with sufficient severity to reduce activity and/or work; these patients were randomized by a predetermined code, into three double-blinded groups: naproxen sodium 550 mg bid (60 patients), pizotyline 0.5 mg tid (59 patients), or placebo (57 patients). the patients were followed at monthly intervals for 12 weeks, with 25 dropping out (3 on naproxen sodium, and 2 each on pizotyline and placebo because of "side effects;" the remaining 18 because of noncompliance or reasons unrelated to therapy). approximately 25% of patients in each of the 3 groups complained of side effects. statistical analysis showed that both naproxen sodium and pizotyline were better than placebo, and of overall equivalent (i.e. equal) efficacy in the prophylaxis of migraine. in some respects, naproxen sodium was slightly more effective than pizotyline in the first month of treatment.
suicide attempts by the old and the very old. attempted suicide by the elderly is a major psychiatric problem. ninety-five patients between 60 and 90 years of age were evaluated by a psychiatric consultation service after a suicide attempt. characteristics of this group included (1) a high degree of premeditation, (2) a tendency toward firearm use and wounds to the head, (3) male sex, (4) coexisting medical problems, (5) serious intent that increased by decade, (6) solitary living arrangements, (7) presence or history of a major psychiatric illness, and (8) ill health reported as a precipitant to suicidality. major depression was the most common psychiatric diagnosis, with congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease the most frequently noted physical ailments. this elderly population of attempters resembled older persons who actually completed suicide and differed significantly from 1630 persons aged 16 to 59 years who attempted suicide. heightened investigation of depressive features, treatment of alcohol abuse, early referral for psychiatric care, limited access to firearms, and strategies aimed at decreasing social isolation are recommended to decrease the likelihood of completed suicide in the elderly.
hormone implants and tachyphylaxis. the serum oestradiol levels of 1388 women treated with hormone implants at a menopause clinic were reviewed in 1988. thirty-eight (3%) were found to be above 1750 pmol/l. of these 38 women with supraphysiological oestradiol levels 23 had started therapy for menopausal symptoms and 15 for the premenstrual syndrome (pms). of the 23 women treated for menopausal symptoms 11 had a history of psychiatric referral for depression and nine had undergone a surgical menopause. nine of the 15 women with pms had a history of psychiatric referral for depressive symptoms. we conclude that the women who attain supraphysiological levels of oestradiol on implant therapy have a high frequency of psychopathology or surgical menopause and may require higher oestradiol levels for adequate control of symptoms.
management of premature removal of the percutaneous gastrostomy. percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (peg) has become the preferred method of enteral access for nutritional support. with increased use of this modality, complications are encountered more frequently. premature withdrawal, inadvertent removal of the gastrostomy tube within the first seven days after insertion, before adherence of the gastric serosa to the parietal peritoneum, has been an indication for laparotomy. this report describes the treatment of premature withdrawal by immediate endoscopic replacement. over an 18-month period, 271 patients underwent insertion of a peg. five patients (1.8%) who inadvertently removed their gastrostomy tube within seven days of insertion were treated with immediate replacement using the retrograde string technique, avoiding laparotomy. all five pegs were successfully replaced through the same gastrostomy site. despite the presence of pneumoperitoneum, no patient developed peritonitis or other septic complications. premature gastrostomy tube withdrawal is safely managed by endoscopic replacement and observation. laparotomy is unnecessary and potentially meddlesome.
botulinum toxin treatment of cranial-cervical dystonia, spasmodic dysphonia, other focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm. in the past five years, 477 patients with various focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm received 3,806 injections of botulinum a toxin for relief of involuntary spasms. a definite improvement with a global rating greater than or equal to 2 on a 0-4 scale, was obtained in all 13 patients with spasmodic dysphonia, 94% of 70 patients with blepharospasm, 92% of 13 patients with hemifacial spasm, 90% of 195 patients with cervical dystonia, 77% of 22 patients with hand dystonia, 73% of 45 patients with oromandibular dystonia, and in 90% of 21 patients with other focal dystonia who had adequate follow up. while the average duration of maximum improvement lasted about 11 weeks after an injection (range seven weeks in patients with hand dystonia to 15 weeks in patients with hemifacial spasm), some patients benefited for over a year. only 16% of the 941 treatment visits with follow up were not successful. except for transient focal weakness, there were very few complications or systemic effects attributed to the injections. this study supports the conclusion that botulinum toxin injections are a safe and effective therapy for patients with focal dystonia and hemifacial spasm.
molecular characterization of inherited medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency. deficiency of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase (mcad) is a common inherited defect in energy metabolism. characterization of the mrna encoding mcad in a dutch mcad-deficient patient revealed an a----g change at nucleotide position 985 of the mcad mrna coding region. this point mutation results in the substitution of a glutamic acid for a lysine at amino acid position 304 of the mature protein. the single base change was not found in any wild-type mcad mrnas. a mutant allele-specific oligonucleotide probe was used in a hybridization analysis of amplified genomic dna of mcad-deficient family members, a carrier, and normal individuals. the hybridization analysis specifically identified individuals who were heterozygotes or homozygotes. in addition to the point mutation, a significant proportion of the index patient's mcad mrna contained a variety of deletions and insertions as a result of exon skipping and intron retention. the missplicing occurred in multiple regions throughout the mcad mrna. analysis of the patient's mcad gene in the regions where the missplicing occurred most frequently did not reveal a mutation in the splicing acceptor or donor sites. therefore, the molecular characterization of this family revealed a crucial point mutation in the mcad gene and an unusual abnormality in mcad pre-mrna splicing.
coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis in association with osler-weber-rendu disease--a case report. a fifty-three-year-old woman presented with coronary artery aneurysm in association with osler-weber-rendu disease (hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia) manifested also by large pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas. the arterial dye dilution curves were unusually distorted owing to the right-to-left shunts. the coronary artery aneurysm was located in multiple sites but was not accompanied by stenotic lesions. coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis is a rare pathologic state and has not been previously reported in association with hereditary telangiectasia.
treatment of intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy with thrombin. report of three patients. of 165 consecutive patients undergoing computerized tomography- or magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotactic brain biopsies at the cleveland clinic between june, 1987, and november, 1989, four patients (2.4%) developed arterial hemorrhage refractory to conventional efforts to secure hemostasis. craniotomy was performed in one of these patients to control the hemorrhage; in the other three, 0.5 to 2 cc of thrombin (5000 u/cc) was slowly injected via the biopsy cannula, resulting in immediate control of bleeding in all three cases. postoperatively, the first two patients treated with 1 to 2 cc of thrombin were slow to awaken; one had evidence of vasospasm by transcranial doppler ultrasound studies and multiple infarcts on cranial computerized tomography, while the other had a moderate-sized frontal hematoma with intracranial hypertension. after prolonged recovery periods, only mild neurological deficits persisted in both patients. the third patient, treated with 0.5 cc of thrombin, had an uneventful postoperative course. thrombin is highly effective for stopping intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy; however, it is a vasospastic agent and may have been responsible for the cerebral infarctions in one patient. therefore, thrombin should be used only as a last resort, short of craniotomy, to control intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy.
rehabilitation of chronic stroke patients: changes in functional performance. forty stroke patients who were at least one year post-onset completed a one-month intensive rehabilitation program. the month before the program served as a control period. during the program, patients received individual sessions in occupational and physical therapy four days a week, and they participated in group activities on the fifth day. therapy emphasized instruction in motor planning, balance and weight shift, and the use of adaptive equipment; these motor abilities were then practiced within real life situations. the patients demonstrated significant improvement in the outcome measures of weight shift, balance, and adl scores after the one-month rehabilitation program (weight shift: f = 16.1, p = .0001; balance: f = 6.26, p = .0007; adl: f = 13.8, p = .0001). they retained these new skills during a three-month follow-up period.
tension pneumothorax secondary to a gastropleural fistula in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia. we report a case of tension pneumothorax due to a gastropleural fistula resulting from perforation of the stomach in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia. awareness of perforation of strangulated stomach or bowel in a diaphragmatic hernia as a cause of pneumothorax, with or without tension physiology, in a patient with a history of trauma is important so that surgical repair can be undertaken without delay.
measurement of progressive cerebral ventriculomegaly in infants after grades iii and iv intraventricular hemorrhages. to develop guidelines that might help predict prospectively which infants with severe intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) would require intervention, we obtained serial cranial sonograms to measure the rate of growth of cerebral ventricular volumes in 48 preterm infants with and without ivh. the infants were divided into three groups: (1) those with no ivh (22 infants), (2) those with ivh with acute ventricular dilation (13 infants), and (3) those with ivh with progressive ventricular dilation requiring intervention (13 infants). the decision to intervene because of progressive ventricular dilation was based on clinical criteria and the subjective assessment of increasing ventricular size on weekly cranial sonograms. the rate of cerebral ventricular volume growth in infants with ivh who needed intervention was greater (4.2 +/- 3.3 ml/day) than that in infants without ivh (0.0 +/- 0.1 ml/day; p less than 0.001) and in infants with ivh and acute ventricular dilation (0.0 +/- 0.2 ml/day; p less than 0.001). using these data, we generated guidelines for predicting prospectively which infants with ivh and ventricular dilation will need intervention for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. the guidelines were then confirmed prospectively in 10 infants.
cardiovascular response of a continuous variable rate alfentanil infusion for abdominal aortic surgery. a prospective study was undertaken to determine the cardiovascular response of a continuous alfentanil infusion during abdominal aortic surgery (aas). each subject (n = 20) received a beta-blocking drug preoperatively, and was premedicated with oral lorazepam. anaesthesia was induced with alfentanil 50 micrograms.kg-1 and thiopentone 3 mg.kg-1, and was maintained with a variable rate infusion of alfentanil and 66 per cent nitrous oxide in oxygen. during the infusion, boluses of alfentanil, 7.5 micrograms.kg-1, were administered to maintain heart rate and blood pressure within 20 per cent of awake baseline values. haemodynamic stability during surgery was achieved with infusion rates varying between 0.5 and 2.5 micrograms.kg-1, which resulted in mean alfentanil serum concentrations ranging from 186 +/- 53 to 315 +/- 98 ng.ml-1. the mean cumulative alfentanil dose was 15.4 +/- 6.2 mg.patient-1 for surgery which lasted an average of 141 +/- 41 min. throughout surgery, no patient required inhalational anaesthetic agents or vasoactive drugs. fifteen of the 20 patients had perioperative holter monitoring. no myocardial ischaemia was detected during the intraoperative period. however, there was a 33 per cent incidence of myocardial ischaemia on the first postoperative day. there were no myocardial infarcts and no deaths. we conclude that in beta-blocked patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery, a variable rate alfentanil infusion administered with 66 per cent nitrous oxide provides anaesthesia characterized by good haemodynamic control without the need for supplemental agents or vasoactive drugs.
studies of the route, magnitude, and time course of bacterial translocation in a model of systemic inflammation. bacteria have been documented to translocate from the gut to systemic organs, yet the exact route by which they translocate remains unclear. to determine the route of bacterial translocation, different dosages of zymosan were used to activate complement and cause systemic inflammation. at a zymosan dose of 0.1 mg/g, bacteria translocated only to the mesenteric lymph node complex, whereas at a dose of 0.5 mg/g the bacteria translocated systematically. in rats receiving 0.5-mg/g doses of zymosan, the bacteria appeared to reach systemic organs via the portal blood rather than via the mesenteric lymph, as bacteria were present in 87% of portal blood samples but only 25% of lymph samples. the number of bacteria exiting the portal vein was 11,500 times greater than the number exiting via the lymph. thus, both the route and extent of bacterial translocation varies based on the magnitude of the inflammatory insult, with the portal blood being the major route of bacterial translocation to systemic organs.
significance of surgical adjuvant chemotherapy for gastric cancer. one hundred and twenty-four specimens (72 primaries and 52 metastases) in 107 patients with gastric cancer were tested using the human tumor clonogenic assay (htca). assays for 64 specimens (52%, 33 primaries and 31 metastases) were considered evaluable. the clonogenicity of the primaries was less than that of the metastases (p less than 0.01). in the primary specimens, well-differentiated tumors were more highly clonogenic than poorly differentiated or signet ring cell tumors (p less than 0.05). viable malignant cells and clonogenic cells were abundant in the primary tumors with mucosal (m) and submucosal (sm) invasion, i.e., in early gastric cancers by japanese criteria, and were reduced in numbers as the primary tumors advanced (p less than 0.05). in vitro chemosensitivity corresponded well to the clonogenicity of the primary tumors stratified by the degree of tumor invasion. at the early phase of primary tumor progression and metastasis, clonogenicity and chemosensitivity were high. aggressive chemotherapy with sensitive drugs after surgery may improve the clinical results for the gastric cancer patients with early phase of metastases.
effect of prostaglandin e1 infusion on leukocyte traffic and fibrosis in acute lung injury induced by bleomycin in hamsters. objective: to determine whether the iv infusion of prostaglandin e1 (pge1) could modify the early influx of neutrophils into bleomycin-injured lungs and if that would affect subsequent development of inflammation and fibrosis. background and methods: in vivo controlled animal study performed in a university hospital pulmonary research laboratory. male syrian golden hamsters (100- to 110-g body weight) were divided into four treatment groups: a) no treatment; b) intratracheal bleomycin plus pge1 infusion; c) bleomycin plus saline infusion; d) pge1 infusion only. pge1 (180 ng/hr.100 g) or saline were infused iv 3 to 25 hr after intratracheal instillation of bleomycin sulfate (0.5 u/0.5 ml.100 g). total and differential counts of cells recovered by lavage, lavage fluid protein, and lung total protein and hydroxyproline levels were measured from 6 hr to 30 days later. results: pge1 infusion reduced the influx of neutrophils 6 hr after bleomycin injury by 53% compared with saline infusion (p less than .0001), but increased inflammatory cell traffic after 24 hr for 15 days. at 4 days, protein recovered in lung lavage fluid was also decreased in pge1-treated, bleomycin-injured animals, reflecting reduced injury to lung permeability barriers. accumulation of lung collagen in the pge1-treated, bleomycin-instilled hamsters tended to be lower than in the bleomycin-injured, saline-infused group at 15 and 30 days, although these differences did not achieve statistical significance. despite this fact, greater than 33% of the animals in the pge1-treated group died, possibly indicating an increased risk of sepsis in these animals. conclusions: pge1 infusion can decrease early neutrophil traffic and reduce injury to the lung permeability barriers. however, this treatment augments late inflammatory events and does not significantly alter the development of fibrosis.
oral contraceptives and myocardial infarction. the risk of myocardial infarction in contraceptive users is limited to women over 35 years of age who smoke. the cause of myocardial infarction in oral contraceptive users is thrombotic and not atherosclerotic. minor lipid changes have no clinical relevance to myocardial infarction in contraceptive pill users and do not appear to increase coronary plaques.
aggressive oral refeeding in hospitalized patients. malnutrition is an important clinical condition leading to increased morbidity and mortality. this report describes an aggressive oral refeeding program of high-caloric foods, which was instituted in severely anorectic patients because of their refusal to eat meals or supplements. after ascertaining a patient's favorite sweet, hospital personnel and family collaborated in providing the food. frequently, sweets were the patient's only intake for weeks. we saw a gradual return of appetite, inclusion of other foods in the diet, and overall clinical improvement in comorbid conditions. these cases suggest that aggressive oral refeeding with high-caloric foods is an underutilized therapy for multiply impaired elderly patients.
clinical association of autoantibodies to fibrillarin with diffuse scleroderma and disseminated telangiectasia. circulating autoantibodies against a variety of nuclear and nucleolar antigens are characteristic serologic findings in systemic scleroderma. some of these antibodies correlate with clinical subsets of the disease. we describe three patients with systemic scleroderma and high autoantibody titers against u3 ribonucleoprotein-associated fibrillarin, a recently identified 34 kd nucleolar protein. these patients showed a progressive course with multiple organ and diffuse skin involvement with disseminated telangiectasia.
intraoperative scintigraphy for active small intestinal bleeding. localizing active sites of bleeding within the small intestine remains a difficult task. endoscopic, angiographic or scintigraphic studies may point to the small intestine as the site of blood loss, but at operation, without a palpable lesion, the exact site of bleeding remains elusive. patients are managed at laparotomy with intraoperative endoscopy, angiography, multiple enterotomies, "blind" resections, or placement of an enterostomy. we describe two patients in whom intraoperative scintigraphy accurately identified active sites of bleeding in the small intestine when other modalities failed. intraoperative scintigraphy is rapid, easy to perform and is an effective means of identifying active sites of bleeding within the small intestine.
levels of the human hepatocyte growth factor in serum of patients with various liver diseases determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. we have found a hepatotrophic factor in plasma or sera of patients with fulminant hepatic failure and have purified human hepatocyte growth factor from plasma of these patients. in this study we developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with high specificity and sensitivity for human hepatocyte growth factor in human serum. this assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor is a sandwich method consisting of three steps. the standard curve for human hepatocyte growth factor appeared to be linear in the range of 0.20 to 12.50 ng purified human hepatocyte growth factor/ml (2.35 to 147 pmol/l). the assay took about 4 hr. serum human hepatocyte growth factor values in patients with fulminant hepatic failure measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed a strong positive correlation with that by bioassay using rat hepatocytes in primary culture. the mean value of serum human hepatocyte growth factor for 30 normal subjects was 0.24 +/- 0.12 (s.d.) ng/ml; that for 23 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was 8.06 +/- 1.76 (s.e.m.) ng/ml- greater than 30 times greater than the mean value for normal subjects. serum human hepatocyte growth factor levels in patients with acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were found to be slightly higher than those in normal subjects, but only the increase in serum human hepatocyte growth factor of acute hepatitis patients was statistically significant. the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor should prove useful for serum human hepatocyte growth factor level measurement in patients with various liver diseases.
the epilepsies: clinical implications of the international classification. from the earliest days of neurology, the classification of epileptic seizures into those generalized from the beginning and those with a definable localization in the cortex from the onset has added to knowledge about the function of the nervous system. further elaboration of the classification of seizures into those localized to the six-layered isocortex and those whose elaboration involves regions of the brain involved with consciousness and memory has provided the basic focus for the burgeoning subspecialty of epilepsy surgery. it is increasingly apparent that the etiology of a seizure disorder is of at least equal or of greater significance than the nature of the seizures it spawns and is the product not only of localization in the nervous system but also of causative factors with implications reaching into areas of genetics, higher cortical function, and intelligence. the prognosis concerning the outcome of the epilepsy under consideration is based on all of these facets. this pathophysiological substratum, of which the seizure is only the presenting symptom, constitutes the epilepsy or epileptic syndrome on which the formulation of a rational treatment plan is based.
ectopic thyroid tissue in the submandibular region. this report describes an unusual location of ectopic thyroid gland tissue. a growth in the left submandibular area was surgically excised, and the microscopic examination of the specimen revealed thyroid tissue with colloid goiter. because this entity cannot be clinically distinguished from a salivary gland tumor, ectopic thyroid tissue should be considered in the differential diagnosis of swellings involving the submandibular area.
hepatic portal venous gas: an unusual presentation of crohn's disease. hepatic portal venous gas is associated with numerous conditions and traditionally has been regarded as an ominous prognostic sign. there are several reports of hepatic portal venous gas occurring in patients with inflammatory bowel disease after or during the performance of colonic diagnostic studies. we report an unusual case of crohn's disease whose initial presentation included hepatic portal venous gas. the literature of hepatic portal venous gas associated with inflammatory bowel disease is reviewed.
problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine. fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine. eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5% (two patients) had severe sensory impairments. all patients had this complication in the early phases of the study. of 297 screws, 17 broke, ie, 5.7%. these breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients (21%). in patients with spondylolisthesis, the degree of slip correction averaged 53% postoperatively, which decreased to 35% at the 1-year follow-up. slip angle was maintained after correction. pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis. the surgeon must be fully trained in methodology. it is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage.
seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children. background. although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades, some patients are left with neurologic sequelae. it has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae, including late seizures or epilepsy. methods. we followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis. the mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years (range, 0.1 to 15.5). during the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter. results. one month after meningitis, 69 children (37 percent) had neurologic abnormalities. many of these signs resolved within a year, leaving only 26 children (14 percent) with persistent deficits: 18 (10 percent) had only sensorineural hearing loss, and 8 (4 percent) had multiple neurologic deficits. thirteen children (7 percent) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever. the presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures (p less than 0.001). conclusions. after bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy. those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae, including epilepsy.
epidermodysplasia verruciformis-associated papillomavirus infection complicating human immunodeficiency virus disease. three males infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) were noted to have extensive flat warts of the face and/or body. in two there were also pityriasis versicolor-like lesions. biopsies showed foamy, basophilic, distended cytoplasm in granular layer keratinocytes, characteristic of the human papillomavirus types seen in epidermodysplasia verruciformis. dna hybridization techniques demonstrated the presence of hpv-type 8 in one patient and hpv 5 and 8 in another. patients with immune suppression due to hiv infection may demonstrate the clinical features of epidermodysplasia verruciformis with the same potentially oncogenic hpv types.
crohn's disease and adenocarcinoma of the intestinal tract. report of four cases. four patients with intestinal adenocarcinoma complicating crohn's disease are reported. the youngest of the four patients was a 21-year-old female with a 9-year history of crohn's disease of the terminal ileum as well as of the entire colon. she developed mucus-producing moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the cecum. of the remaining three patients with crohn's disease, one presented an adenocarcinoma in the ascending colon, one in the rectum and the remaining one in the duodenum. all three colorectal adenocarcinomas originated in areas of high-grade dysplasia and all four in areas with chronic transmural inflammation. the review of the literature indicates that a total of 174 small and large bowel cancers occurring in crohn's disease have been recorded (including the four reported herein). the vast majority of the reported cases have been found in the north american subcontinent. only in a few instances were bowel adenocarcinoma and crohn's disease observed in the european continent. it is therefore remarkable that three of our four cases were seen within a period of 12 months. interestingly, six patients having colorectal adenocarcinoma in association with crohn's disease were recently reported from a single hospital in england. the question therefore arises whether our cases and those reported recently from england are unrelated and merely coincidental or whether carcinomas are now also affecting european cd patients. if the latter is the case, the surveillance policy for patients with cd should be reconsidered at this hospital.
death notification. family notification in sudden, unexpected, and violent death is a major responsibility of law enforcement, medical examiner, and coroner offices. this report reviews and discusses the process and procedures utilized in death notification and provides suggestions to accomplish this difficult task more effectively.
computerized identification of pathologic duodenogastric reflux using 24-hour gastric ph monitoring. duodenogastric reflux is a naturally occurring sporadic event, the incidence, occurrence, and detrimental effects of which have been difficult to assess. the reliability of 24-hour gastric ph monitoring to detect duodenogastric reflux was studied. central to the use of ph monitoring for this purpose is confidence in its ability to measure and display ph data in a way that reflects changes in the gastric ph environment with sufficient sensitivity. to test this the gastric ph of 10 dogs was measured in the fasting state, after feeding, and after pentagastrin stimulation. the antrum was more alkaline in the fasting state (p less than 0.01) and the display of data by frequency distribution graph was sensitive enough to reflect induced ph changes. to test the consistency of gastric ph at a given position, simultaneous 24-hour gastric monitoring was performed in 12 normal subjects with two probes placed at either 5 or 10 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter. only at the 5-cm position did the two probes read within 1 ph unit of each other more than 90% of the time. based on these principles, gastric ph monitoring was performed 5 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter in 30 normal subjects and 11 patients, fulfilling ritchie's clinical criteria for pathologic duodenogastric reflux. the data obtained was arranged into 71 variables and subjected to discriminant analysis. sixteen variables were identified, each with a corresponding coefficient to be used as a multiplier to derive a score. a score of more than +2.2 indicated a high probability of pathologic duodenogastric reflux. the test was applied to a validation population consisting of 10 additional normal subjects and 10 patients meeting ritchie's criteria. all normal subjects had a normal score and all but one (90%) of the patients had an abnormal score. when compared to o-diisopropyl iminodiacetic acid (disida) scintigraphy in another group of 22 normal subjects and 60 patients, 24-hour gastric ph monitoring was superior in the detection of pathologic duodenogastric reflux. the study shows how the application of computer technology can be used to diagnose pathologic duodenogastric reflux in patients with complex foregut complaints.
aortic dissection with the entrance tear in transverse aorta: analysis of 12 autopsy patients. clinical and autopsy findings are described in 12 patients who had fatal aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the transverse aorta. the 12 patients represent 7% of 182 autopsies of spontaneous aortic dissection studied by us. the ages of the 12 patients at death ranged from 37 to 87 years (mean, 67 years). eight were men; 8 had a history of systemic hypertension, and 10 had hearts of increased weight. diagnosis of aortic dissection was made during life in only 4 of the 12 patients. all 12 patients died of rupture of the false channel within 2 weeks of onset of signs or symptoms compatible with dissection. the direction of aortic dissection from the entrance tear was entirely retrograde in 4 patients, entirely anterograde in 4 patients, and in both directions in 4 patients. hemopericardium occurred in the first group, left hemothorax in the second group, and either in the last group. of the 8 patients in whom the ascending aorta was involved, the retrograde dissection in each extended to the aortic root, 6 had pulmonary adventitial hemorrhage, and 4 had involvement of the arch arteries by dissection. in the 4 patients with strictly anterograde dissection, none had dissection in the arch arteries. thus, tear in the transverse aorta causes a dissection that is usually fata, that often dissects retrogradely, and that may mimic dissection from a tear in ascending aorta. aortic dissection from a tear in transverse aorta requires early operative intervention.
evaluation of the fine needle aspiration biopsy in the preoperative selection of cold thyroid nodules. from 1980 to 1988 the authors examined by fine needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) 4609 patients with solitary thyroid nodules or multinodular goiters. a total of 5605 "cold" thyroid nodules were evaluated and classified, on the basis of the cytologic findings, as malignant, follicular lesions (probably malignant and probably benign) and benign. then the authors compared the preoperative cytologic findings with the postoperative histologic results in 827 nodules from patients who underwent surgery. in the 805 thyroid nodules in which an adequate cytologic specimen was obtained, false-negative results were 2.3% and false-positive findings were 1.1% by comparing cytologic and histologic diagnoses, preoperative fnab resulted in the ability to accurately assess the risk of cancer in a thyroid nodule; since 250 nodules were identified as malignant, the risk of a "cold" thyroid nodule being cancer was 4.46% in this series.
buschke-loewenstein tumor: verrucous carcinoma of the penis. the buschke-loewenstein tumor is an anogenital tumor of characteristic clinical and histologic pattern best considered as a low-grade, well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. this remarkable neoplasm and its features are reviewed in detail, stressing salient advances in our understanding of it.
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo open heart surgery. to determine whether heparin-dependent antiplatelet antibodies (haab) have an effect on morbidity and/or mortality rates, we reviewed the cases of 3438 patients who underwent open heart surgery from 1981 to 1989. forty-six patients (1.3%) had haab. the patients were divided into two groups: those patients who were known to have haab before surgery (group i) and those patients who were diagnosed with haab after surgery (group ii). group i patients (n = 5) were pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before reexposure to heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass and were maintained with strict abstinence from heparin afterward. their lowest observed platelet counts ranged from 42,000/mm3 to 89,000/mm3 (median, 63,00/mm3). thromboembolic complications did not occur, and all patients survived. group ii patients (n = 41) who were diagnosed to have haab after surgery had not been pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before surgery. lowest platelet counts ranged from 11,000/mm3 to 128,000/mm3 (median, 42,000/mm3). bleeding complications occurred in 21 patients (51%), and thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients (32%). hospital mortality in group ii patients was 37%. late recognition of haab was associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality rates. thromboembolic complications of haab, which had been diagnosed before surgery, were eliminated, and bleeding was reduced by pretreatment with platelet-inhibiting drugs and strict abstinence from heparin after surgery.
motor dysfunction in hiv-infected patients without clinically detectable central-nervous deficit. motor tests were performed in 50 hiv-infected patients in all stages according to the current cdc classification, but without any clinically evident central nervous system deficit, and the results compared with an age-matched control group. patients were excluded from the study if there was alcohol or drug abuse, fever and/or opportunistic cerebral infection. the parameters tested were postural tremor of the outstretched hands, most rapid voluntary alternating index finger movements (mram) and rise time of most rapid index finger extensions (mrc). whereas tremor peak frequencies did not differ significantly in the patients and controls, mram and rise times of mrcs showed significant slowing in the patient group. morphologically, the motor test performance of the hiv-infected patients was similar to that of patients with manifest basal ganglia disease (parkinson's, huntington's and wilson's diseases). mri scans of all patients were normal. it is concluded that in hiv-infected patients there is a very early subclinical central nervous system affection, especially of the basal ganglia, which is detectable with appropriate, quantitative motor function tests. these functional abnormalities precede the structural alterations in the mri scans.
tuberculous meningitis. tuberculous meningitis is an uncommon but potentially devastating form of tuberculosis. current antituberculous drugs are highly effective when treatment is initiated early, before the onset of altered mentation or focal neurologic deficits. because the clinical outcome depends greatly on the stage at which therapy is initiated, early recognition is of paramount importance. patients with the meningoencephalitis syndrome and csf findings of low glucose levels, elevated protein levels, and pleocytosis should be treated immediately if there is evidence of tb elsewhere in the body, or if prompt evaluation fails to establish an alternative diagnosis. examination of csf is the best diagnostic approach; with sufficient diligence, serial afb smears and cultures will usually yield positive results, even days after therapy has been started. the ct scan is an important and highly effective tool for the diagnosis and management of patients with tbm. in a patient with compatible clinical features, the combination of basilar meningeal enhancement and any degree of hydrocephalus is strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of tbm. serial evaluation by ct scanning is useful for following the course of hydrocephalus and tuberculoma, particularly in reference to the need for, or response to, adjunctive therapy with corticosteroids and surgery. the decision to administer corticosteroids should be based on careful correlation of the clinical and radiographic features of the case. surgical shunting should be considered early in the patient with hydrocephalus and symptoms of raised intracranial pressure. tuberculomas are best treated medically, often in conjunction with corticosteroids where cerebral edema is believed to contribute to neurologic decline. the recommended chemotherapy regimen is isoniazid and rifampin in all patients, together with pyrazinamide for the first 2 months.
severe anaphylactoid reaction to hydroxyethyl starch. a case is presented of a severe anaphylactoid reaction to hydroxyethyl starch solution that occurred peri-operatively and required extended intensive management of the resultant bronchospasm and hypotension. subsequent intradermal injection of hetastarch produced a delayed positive response, suggestive of a complement-mediated mechanism.
changes in intracochlear and intracanalicular nerves after acoustic neurinoma excision confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging. postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings related to the vestibulocochlear and facial nerves within the internal auditory canal were analyzed in acoustic neurinomas. t1- and proton-weighted magnetic resonance images showed that the vestibulocochlear nerves distal to the internal auditory meatus increased in signal intensity after surgical intervention. these nerves were conspicuously enhanced after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylene-triamine-pentaacetic acid. the preserved facial nerves were also markedly enhanced postoperatively. as a possible cause of these findings, we suggest operative disruption of the blood-nerve barrier with ensuing nerve edema, although the operative procedures were carefully carried out using a surgical microscope. the clinical significance of traumatic disruption of the blood-nerve barrier and subsequent nerve edema are discussed from the standpoint of preservation of cochlear nerve function.
the role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury (iss 9-10): a prospective study. the purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma (iss 9/10) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy. all patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax (estimated iss 9 or 10) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study. patients were excluded for the following reasons: age less than 18 years, presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation, ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease, documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status. ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs: antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone. all patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion. wound care and tube care were identical. antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin (cefazolin), one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal. injury severity scores were established as described by schwab after the manner of baker. statistical analysis was performed using fisher's exact test of binary outcome. in this study, antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified. further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement.
suppression of tumorigenicity in human colon carcinoma cells by introduction of normal chromosome 5 or 18. development of colon carcinomas can be associated with allelic deletions on several chromosomes, including 5q and 18q. the apc gene on 5q and the dcc gene on 18q have been identified as potential tumour suppressor genes, whose suppression contributes to colon carcinogenesis. to investigate the role of genes in these deleted regions, we have now introduced a single normal human chromosome into a human colon carcinoma cell line, cokfu, through microcell hybridization. several clones of hybrid cells containing normal chromosome 5, and others containing normal chromosome 18, were obtained. the morphology of the hybrid cells was markedly altered: the hybrids with chromosome 5 exhibited a closely packed polygonal morphology, and the hybrid cells with chromosome 18 were flattened. the cloning efficiency of the hybrid cells in soft agar was reduced from 0.46 to 0% of that of the parental carcinoma cells, and the tumorigenicity of these hybrid cells in athymic nude mice was completely suppressed. the growth properties of the hybrid cells with chromosome 11 were not substantially changed. these results strongly suggest that the genes on normal chromosome 5 and 18 function as tumour suppressors in colon carcinogenesis.
preanaesthetic medication with clonidine. the purpose of this study was to evaluate oral clonidine in a dose of 0.3 mg as a routine premedicant. sixty-nine normotensive female patients were studied in a randomized double-blind investigation in which clonidine was compared with an inert treatment. clonidine produced a significant reduction in anxiety (p less than 0.05) and sedation and a reduction in the sleep dose of methohexitone (p less than 0.05). tachycardia in response to intubation was attenuated by clonidine (p less than 0.05). however, the magnitude of the increase in arterial pressure after intubation was not affected. intraoperative and postoperative hypotension were common after premedication with clonidine 0.3 mg and caution is urged in its use as a premedicant.
down's syndrome and acute leukemia in children: an analysis of phenotype by use of monoclonal antibodies and electron microscopic platelet peroxidase reaction the clinical, hematologic, and immunophenotypic features in 20 patients with down's syndrome (ds) and acute leukemia were analyzed. of the 20 patients, all 14 patients who were 3 years old and less were diagnosed as having acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (amkl) by use of platelet-specific monoclonal antibodies and platelet peroxidase (ppo) reaction in electron microscopy. they were characterized by the presence of bone marrow fibrosis, having a history of myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) and a poor response to chemotherapy. only one patient has remained in continuous complete remission for more than 1 year. acute leukemia in six patients who were older than 4 years was classified as common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (calla)-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). in one of six patients classified as all, the leukemic blasts simultaneously expressed myeloid-associated surface antigens. all six patients achieved a complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission from 10 to 52 months from the initial diagnosis. although it has been suggested that the distribution of types of acute leukemia in patients with ds is similar to that in normal children, the present study shows that the distribution of acute leukemia types is quite different from that in patients without down's syndrome.
lymph node metastasis in spindle cell carcinoma arising in odontogenic cyst. report of a case. the majority of primary intraosseous carcinomas of the jaws develop in preexisting odontogenic cysts. these tumors are usually well-differentiated keratinizing carcinomas with relatively good prognosis. only two of 41 previously reported acceptable cases of primary intraosseous carcinomas from ex-odontogenic cysts were associated with cervical lymph node metastasis. spindle cell carcinoma is an anaplastic dimorphic neoplasm with poor prognosis. it has a special predilection for the upper aerodigestive tract. this is to our knowledge the first report of spindle cell carcinoma developing in an odontogenic cyst. cervical lymph node metastasis showing typical histologic features of spindle cell carcinoma was detected 8 months postoperatively. the prognostic implications of this finding are discussed in light of previously reported cases of intraosseous carcinoma arising in odontogenic cysts and of spindle cell carcinoma of the oral cavity.
large-scale neurocognitive networks and distributed processing for attention, language, and memory. cognition and comportment are subserved by interconnected neural networks that allow high-level computational architectures including parallel distributed processing. cognitive problems are not resolved by a sequential and hierarchical progression toward predetermined goals but instead by a simultaneous and interactive consideration of multiple possibilities and constraints until a satisfactory fit is achieved. the resultant texture of mental activity is characterized by almost infinite richness and flexibility. according to this model, complex behavior is mapped at the level of multifocal neural systems rather than specific anatomical sites, giving rise to brain-behavior relationships that are both localized and distributed. each network contains anatomically addressed channels for transferring information content and chemically addressed pathways for modulating behavioral tone. this approach provides a blueprint for reexploring the neurological foundations of attention, language, memory, and frontal lobe function.
gastroesophageal reflux disease: an update on management. gastroesophageal reflux is commonplace; all humans experience it. for many patients, gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) is a manageable condition. for others, gerd can progress to severe symptoms, inflammation, and disruption of the mucosal lining. effective therapy calls for a clear understanding of the pathogenesis of gerd. the final common denominator to gerd is a lower esophageal sphincter mechanism that relaxes or is incompetent and allows gastroesophageal reflux to occur. key factors associated with gerd are (a) gastric content, (b) potency of refluxate, (c) esophageal clearance, (d) tissue resistance, and (e) disruption of the anatomic hiatus. gerd is generally a chronic condition characterized by recurrent symptoms. treatment goals for the gerd patient need to be defined: is therapy directed toward eliminating the symptoms or is therapy designed to eliminate gastroesophageal reflux? unfortunately, effective therapy for gerd usually does not affect the mechanism(s) underlying the problem. the broad goals of therapy in gerd are to decrease gastroesophageal reflux and neutralize it, to enhance esophageal clearance, and to protect esophageal mucosa. the therapeutic modalities related to each of these situations are numerous and overlap, but treatment strategies for managing the gerd patient can be used in clinical "stages" or as the clinical situation dictates. h2-receptor antagonist therapy has become the "keystone" in management of gerd. unfortunately, not all gerd patients respond to conventional h2-receptor antagonist dosage treatment; high-dose h2-receptor antagonist therapy recently has been demonstrated to be more effective in a greater number of gerd patients with severe esophagitis.
factors determining improvement in left ventricular function after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction: primacy of baseline ejection fraction. improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction is a measure of salvage of ischemic myocardium after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. the degree of improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction may be influenced by many factors. therefore, 137 patients in whom paired radionuclide angiograms were obtained within 24 h of acute infarction and before hospital discharge were retrospectively evaluated to determine which factors most affect improvement in ejection fraction. only baseline ejection fraction correlated significantly with improvement in ejection fraction by both univariate analysis (ejection fraction as a continuous variable; p less than 0.001; ejection fraction as a categorical variable, less than or equal to 45% versus greater than 45%, p less than 0.0001) and multivariate analysis (p less than 0.0001). reperfusion status (patent versus occluded infarct artery) and extent of coronary artery disease (one, two or three vessel) were significant factors by multivariate but not by univariate analysis. location of infarction, treatment modality and time to treatment did not correlate with change in ejection fraction by either statistical technique. thus, of those factors tested, baseline left ventricular ejection fraction is the most potent predictor of improvement in ventricular function after acute infarction. knowledge of baseline ejection fraction may be helpful in deciding whether to treat some patients with equivocal indications or contraindications for reperfusion therapy. clinical trials of reperfusion strategies should stratify patients on the basis of baseline ejection fraction if ejection fraction is to be used as an end point for myocardial salvage.
handcuff neuropathies compressive neuropathy due to tight application of handcuffs occurred in 5 patients. the superficial radial nerve was affected in 8 hands and the median nerve in two. neurologic deficits persisted as long as 3 years after handcuffing. nerve conduction studies helped to exclude malingering and other diagnoses. all patients had been intoxicated when handcuffed or had been arrested with force. the handcuff mechanism, which allows accidental overtightening after application, is an unrecognized factor in these neuropathies.
caffeine and ventricular arrhythmias. an electrophysiological approach. little information is known regarding caffeine's effect on the substrate supporting sustained ventricular arrhythmias. this prospective study evaluated the effect of coffee (275 mg of caffeine) on this substrate with programmed ventricular stimulation in 22 patients with a history of symptomatic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia, or ventricular fibrillation. patients underwent electrophysiological testing before and 1 hour after coffee ingestion. mean (+/- sem) plasma caffeine level achieved after coffee consumption was 6.2 +/- 0.5 mg/l. mean plasma catecholamine and potassium values were not altered significantly 1 hour following caffeine ingestion. the number of extrastimuli required to induce an arrhythmia was unchanged in 10 patients (46%), increased in six (27%), and decreased in six (27%). rhythm severity was unchanged in 17 patients (77%), more severe in two (9%), and less severe in three (14%). in those patients with clinical ventricular arrhythmias, caffeine did not significantly alter inducibility or severity of arrhythmias, suggesting little effect on the substrate supporting ventricular arrhythmias.
use of gadolinium-enhanced mr imaging for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the paranasal sinuses. the purpose of this study was to determine whether additional clinically useful information could be obtained from gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) imaging compared with the information obtained from nonenhanced mr imaging and computed tomography (ct). therefore, the authors selected 41 patients, whose results at ct examinations demonstrated a variety of pathologic conditions of the paranasal sinuses, to undergo mr imaging both with and without the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement. in 22 of 35 cases of neoplasms and mucoceles occurring separately, the lesions were correctly differentiated by established mr signal criteria alone. however, 32 of these 35 cases were accurately differentiated when gadolinium-enhanced mr images were obtained. six cases demonstrated co-existing neoplasm and mucocele: gadolinium-enhanced mr enabled correct differentiation of five of these lesions, while unenhanced mr enabled correct differentiation of three. on the basis of these results, the authors conclude that the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement at mr imaging is useful for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the sinonasal tract.
role of prostaglandin e1 in reducing pulmonary vascular resistance in an experimental model of acute lung injury. to determine the role and efficacy of prostaglandin e1 (pge1) on the cardiopulmonary derangements induced by glass bead embolism, two studies were performed. in the first study, a dose response of pge1 was tested in six animals that were first embolized with sufficient glass beads to double the pulmonary artery pressure (pap). this study demonstrated that pge1 reduced pap and cardiac output by a preload-mediated mechanism, as evidenced by a reduction in the right ventricular (rv) end-diastolic segment length, at doses of 15 and 30 ng/kg.min. the second study was performed in two groups of animals, the control group (n = 6), and the treated group (n = 6), which were given pge1 at 15 ng/kg.min after the pap had been doubled by glass bead embolism. rv preload was kept constant. this study demonstrated that there was no difference in pulmonary vascular resistance between either the treated group or the control group. there were no other significant differences between the two groups. the results of both of these studies suggest that there is little afterload reducing effect of pge1 in this model and at these dose ranges. part of the mechanism of pge1 that improves pulmonary edema and gas exchange may be the reduction of filtration surface area and hydrostatic pressures in the lungs.
influence of obesity, impaired glucose tolerance, and niddm on ldl structure and composition. possible link between hyperinsulinemia and atherosclerosis. the possible causes of the enhanced risk for coronary heart disease (chd) were examined in morbidly obese women with normoglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance (igt), and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) before and after gastric bypass surgery. compared with age-matched lean women, plasma lipid and apolipoprotein concentrations of the obese women before surgery favored atherogenesis. the risk for chd may further be exacerbated in the igt and niddm groups by the prevalence of smaller and denser low-density-lipoprotein (ldl) particles. ldl size correlated negatively with plasma insulin levels independent of triglyceride levels, age, or body mass index (bmi). after surgery, bmi, plasma insulin, and triglyceride levels decreased, but ldl size increased, and ldl density decreased. neither cholesterol nor ldl cholesterol levels were affected after surgery, but high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol was increased in all patients after surgery. although the mechanisms underlying the changes in the properties of ldl could not be determined from this study, these changes appear to be of benefit in reducing chd risk in these patients.
headache: a marker of depression patients who presented with a chief complaint of headache in the outpatient family practice setting were found to have a high prevalence of depression (63%) by the zung self-rating depression scale (sds) index. a statistically significant relationship was found between the frequency of headaches (p = .03) with level of depression. in fact, 74% of patients with headaches recurring almost every day had a clinically significant depression diagnosed as defined by the zung sds score. the zung sds score also correlated with the length of time that the problem of headache existed (p less than .05). item analysis of the individual 20-item depression score revealed that four questions accounted for 93% of the variance. this analysis suggests that shorter, more abbreviated screening questions could be developed and refined in the future for use by the busy clinician. headache is an important marker for depression in the primary care setting. it can be inferred from this study that the clinician may need to focus more on treating the entity of depression than on treating just the symptom of headache.
valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and cerebral septic emboli. cerebral septic emboli complicate the cases in 20% to 40% of patients with left-sided endocarditis but the management of these patients who require a valvar operation remains unclear. from 1980 to 1988, the incidence of cerebral septic embolus was 42% (n = 45) among 106 patients with endocarditis who underwent valve replacement at the university of illinois hospital in chicago. of these 45 patients, 69% (n = 31) had symptomatic cerebral septic infarctions and 31% (n = 14) were asymptomatic. findings on cerebral computed tomographic scans included ischemic infarcts (n = 36, 80%), hemorrhagic infarcts (n = 5, 11%), normal studies (n = 2, 4%), and unknown (n = 2, 4%). neurological complications after valve replacement included postoperative strokes (n = 6, 6%), cerebral abscesses (n = 2, 2%), and seizure (n = 1, 1%). the presence of a hemorrhagic infarct preoperatively predisposed to a perioperative stroke (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, cerebral septic infarctions, both symptomatic and asymptomatic, are common among patients with endocarditis referred for valvar operation. in the absence of a hemorrhagic infarct, valve replacement can be performed with minimal risk of a perioperative stroke.
preoperative superselective arteriolar embolization: a new approach to enhance resectability of spinal tumors. the extent of surgical resection of spinal tumors is frequently limited by blood loss and technical difficulty associated with the vascularity of the tumors. we report here the use of superselective percutaneous arterial embolization to reduce the rate of blood loss at the time of surgical resection and enhance resectability. the types of tumors treated were metastatic renal carcinoma, metastatic thyroid carcinoma, metastatic melanoma, and giant cell tumor of the sacrum. two of the patients required repeated embolization and surgery for recurrent symptoms. the estimated blood loss in seven of nine procedures performed on the six patients ranged from 300 to 800 ml, after which no transfusion was required. in two procedures, extensive resection of very large tumors resulted in larger losses of blood, and postoperative transfusion was necessary. no significant complications of embolization or surgery occurred. a key factor in our embolization technique is the use of microfibrillar collagen, which allows occlusion of tumor vessels as small as 20 microns and may prevent reconstitution of the embolized vessels by collateral flow. we conclude that preoperative arterial embolization enhances the resectability of a variety of spinal tumors by reducing intraoperative blood loss. this may provide an additional benefit by reducing the risk related to postoperative transfusion. by permitting a more aggressive surgical approach, the use of preoperative embolization also has the potential to improve outcome in patients with spinal tumors.
treatable abdominal pathologic conditions and unsuspected malignant neoplasms at autopsy in veterans who received mechanical ventilation. study objective: to determine, in medical patients who received mechanical ventilation, the frequency and types of major unexpected diagnoses at autopsy that, if known before death, would probably have led to improved survival (class i errors) or substantively changed management but not survival (class iib errors). design: retrospective cohort study. setting: six medical intensive care units in a department of veterans affairs cooperative study. patients: one hundred seventy-two autopsied patients of the 401 veterans who received mechanical ventilation and died in the hospital. results: the class i error rate was 12%. abdominal pathologic conditions--abscesses, bowel perforations, or infarction--were as frequent as pulmonary emboli as a cause of class i errors. while patients with abdominal pathologic conditions generally complained of abdominal pain, results of examination of the abdomen were considered unremarkable in most patients, and the symptom was not pursued. six percent of patients had extensive malignant neoplasms (class iib errors). conclusions: atypical presentation of potentially treatable abdominal pathologic conditions is a common cause of class i errors in veterans who receive mechanical ventilation. conversely, several patients with unrecognized terminal conditions underwent intensive intervention. if the information gained at autopsy had been known before death, management would have probably changed substantively in 18% of patients.
aneurysmal dilatation in saphenous vein bypass grafts. three patients are reported who developed aneurysmal degeneration of a saphenous vein arterial bypass graft. all three had hypercholesterolemia and two had marked elevation of triglycerides. one bypass was for occlusive disease and two for popliteal aneurysm. there was a long lag, 3 to 7 years between graft implantation and aneurysmal degeneration. the pathology was similar for all three cases with lipid laden macrophages, loss of elastic lamina, and other atherosclerotic changes in the vein wall. while atheromatous changes and aneurysm formation in saphenous vein bypass grafts are rare, this may occur especially in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. careful and prolonged follow-up plus vigorous management of the hyperlipidemic state is mandatory in these patients.
rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery. we analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery. in all five cases, thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen. the mean +/- sd shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 +/- 0.4 mm. our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion, which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion.
effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects. the effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease (mean age 40 (sd 13) years) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 (36) months before the study. all patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases. bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance (sgaw) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol (45-1260 micrograms). the dose producing a 35% decrease in sgaw (pd35) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis. mean baseline sgaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid (1.35 (0.36) and 1.41 (0.56) s-1 kpa-1). the interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sgaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group (14% versus 8%). geometric mean pd35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid (97 micrograms) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid (192 micrograms). it is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects.
site and strand specificity of uvb mutagenesis in the sup4-o gene of yeast [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 mar 1;88(5):2035] dna sequencing was used to characterize 208 mutations induced in the sup4-o trna gene of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae by uvb (285-320 nm) radiation. the results were compared to those for an analysis of 211 sup4-o mutations induced by 254-nm uvc light. in each case, greater than 90% of the mutations were single base-pair changes but g.c----a.t transitions predominated and accounted for more of the mutations induced by uvb than uvc. double substitutions, single base-pair deletions, and more complex events were also recovered. however, uvb induced 3-fold more tandem substitutions than uvc and nontandem double events were detected only after irradiation with uvc. virtually all induced substitutions occurred at sites where the pyrimidine of the base pair was part of a dipyrimidine sequence. although the site specificities were consistent with roles for cyclobutane dimers and pyrimidine-pyrimidone(6-4) lesions in mutation induction, preliminary photoreactivation data implicated cyclobutane dimers as the major form of premutational dna damage for both agents. intriguingly, there was a preference for both uvb- and uvc-induced mutations to occur at sites where the dipyrimidine was on the transcribed strand.
psychosocial correlates of temporomandibular joint pain and dysfunction. this study examines psychological differences between temporomandibular joint pain and dysfunction (tmjpd) patients, pain controls, and healthy controls. two hundred and two patients were classified, according to the diagnostic criteria of eversole and machado, as either myogenic facial pain (n = 42), internal derangement type i (n = 69), internal derangement type ii (n = 85), or internal derangement type iii (n = 6). patients completed the basic personality inventory, the illness behavior questionnaire, the multidimensional health locus of control, the perceived stress scale, and the ways of coping checklist. subjects also answered question pertaining to tmjpd symptomatology, including chronicity and severity. after conservative treatment with simple jaw exercise and ultrasound, patients were contacted again at 5 months to complete follow-up questionnaires similar to those previously completed. comparison groups were comprised of 79 patients attending outpatient physiotherapy clinics for pain-related injuries not involving the temporomandibular joint and 71 pain-free, healthy students. data were analyzed using multivariate statistics. the results indicate a significant relationship between pain intensity (and to some extent chronicity) and diverse measures of personality among the pain controls but not among the tmjpd patients. this calls into question the validity of assuming individual pain disorders are subsets of a larger, homogenous pain disorder population. tmjpd patients and pain controls score higher on hypochondriasis and anxiety than the pain-free controls but these elevations are not clinically significant. the elevations decrease to normal levels in response to a positive treatment outcome. there were no differences between the tmjpd patients and the pain controls on any of the measures. these results suggests that tmjpd patients do not appear to be significantly different from other pain patients or healthy controls in personality type, response to illness, attitudes towards health care, or ways of coping with stress.
sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes. sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions. disseminated n. gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis, which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy. in contrast, both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic "reactive" arthritis or reiter's syndrome. inheritance of hla b27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition. the demonstration of c. trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class i hla antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease. arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50% of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis b infection. joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions, especially on the legs; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice. hepatitis b infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis, which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis. seronegative arthritis, including reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, and undifferentiated arthritis, a sjogren's-like syndrome, vasculitis, and myopathies have been described in association with hiv infection. it is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that hiv is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired. nevertheless, synovitis may occur in the presence of marked cd4-positive lymphocyte depletion. rheumatic syndromes, including arthralgia, inflammatory arthritis, and neuropathic arthritis, may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis. syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy, but neuropathic lesions cannot be treated effectively. septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated mycoplasma or urea-plasma infections, and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale.
thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance with a centrifugal pump in patients with valvular prostheses. this article describes two patients with artificial heart valves who suffered thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance using a biomedicus centrifugal pump. the first case involved a 25-year-old man who presented acute blockage of a mechanical aortic valve. emergency surgery was performed to replace this valve with a bioprosthesis. postoperatively the patient developed severe left heart insufficiency and a biomedicus centrifugal pump was placed between the left atrium and the ascending aorta. after 3 days of total left ventricular assistance, weaning was started and successfully completed with explanation on the 5th day. two days later the patient died of multiple coronary embolism with thrombosis of the valve. the second case involved a 30-year-old man. six months before, he underwent surgical procedure with placement of bio-prosthesis for dissecting aortic aneurysm due to annuloectasia. upon admission for terminal dilated myocardiopathy, the patient was in kidney failure almost requiring dialysis. because of this patient's size (marfan syndrome), no donor heart was immediately available and left circulatory assistance with a biomedicus pump had to be initiated. the patient lived without mechanical ventilation, in good clinical condition until day 23 when he presented acute right heart failure due to extensive valvular and coronary thrombosis. from these two cases, several important comments can be made about anticoagulation therapy, partial unloading of left ventricle, or need for biventricular assistance, and efficiency of centrifugal devices in these clinical applications.
multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions: an unusual association. many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association--with multiple myeloma. this case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis.
an unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot. a case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of fallot. the focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery. subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation, and, with no further surgery, the child is well after two and a half years follow-up.
relative validity of self-reported snoring as a symptom of sleep apnea in a sleep clinic population the purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative validity of responses to three different questions about snoring as indicators for sleep apnea in a population referred to a sleep clinic. secondary goals were to evaluate the meaning of a "don't know" response to these questions and to examine how the associations between snoring and sleep apnea are influenced by demographics. results from 1,409 patients in a sleep clinic indicated that nearly all levels of estimated snoring frequency were associated with a greater likelihood of sleep apnea. in addition, a "don't know" response indicated a likelihood of sleep apnea. in the sample from this clinic, sensitivities approximating 90 percent were obtained in men, and specificities approximating 90 percent were obtained in women, but high diagnostic accuracy (high specificity in men; high sensitivity in women) could not be achieved with the three snoring questions used here. generally, associations between snoring and sleep apnea were independent of age and sex. single persons, persons living alone, and persons customarily sleeping alone of both sexes all showed associations between self-reported snoring and the presence of sleep apnea.
uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea. unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications. we report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year. snoring was abolished in 18 (36 per cent) and substantially reduced in the remainder. obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, identified in 11 patients pre-operatively, was reduced in severity in all but three. troublesome complications were seen in 18 (36 per cent) patients, namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five (10 per cent), pharyngeal dryness in 11 (22 per cent) and loss of taste in five (10 per cent). one patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction. a cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection. the importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated.
major histocompatibility complex antigen expression in the affected tissues in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. monoclonal antibody immunocytochemistry was used to examine spinal cord and muscle in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for changes that would indicate ongoing or potential immune activity. increased expression of class i and ii major histocompatibility complex (mhc) antigens was seen in the affected areas of spinal cord. new mhc expression was concentrated in phagocytes, particularly in degenerating white matter in which they were dispersed in the tissue and also packed around blood vessels. mhc antigen was not revealed in motor neurons or skeletal muscle fibers. an anti-pan-t-cell monoclonal revealed small numbers of t cells in degenerating white matter. similar changes have been seen in other neurodegenerative disorders. they suggest a potential for (secondary) cell-mediated activity in the affected areas rather than an ongoing mhc-restricted t-cell response. vessel-associated phagocytes may be a source of antigen to peripheral lymphoid tissue, stimulating production of the autoantibodies that have been described.
the changing direction of nystagmus in acute meniere's disease: pathophysiological implications. the direction(s) and pathophysiologic basis of nystagmus during an acute attack of meniere's disease have been subject to much debate in the world literature. clinical recordings from two patients whose nystagmus was captured near the very beginning of the acute vertiginous episode are presented. previous clinical observations in meniere's disease, experimental animal models concerned with initiation of peripheral nystagmus, and the phenomenon of recovery are discussed.
pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis: diagnosis with ca 19-9 assessment, us, ct, and ct-guided fine-needle biopsy. the authors prospectively performed serum ca 19-9 assessment, ultrasound (us), computed tomography (ct), and ct-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm. the final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients. ca 19-9 assessment, us, ct, and fnab were considered nondiagnostic, respectively, in 0%, 25%, 19%, and 6% of cases. when a definite diagnosis was rendered, the positive predictive value was 90% for ca 19-9 assessment, 95% for us, 98% for ct, and 100% for fnab; the negative predictive value was, respectively, 69%, 95%, 86%, and 100%. the accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81% for ca 19-9 assessment, 72% for us, 77% for ct, and 94% for fnab. it is concluded that ct-guided pancreatic fnab is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis. when the pancreas is well visualized at us, the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of ca 19-9 assessment and ct.
treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal. progress in the prognosis of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal has followed the use of multimodality therapy. from 1977 to 1985, 42 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal were treated with mitomycin c (15 mg/m2) and 5-fluorouracil (750 mg/m2) on day 1, 5-fu (750 mg/m2/d) alone on days 2 to 5, and radiation therapy (3000 cgy) on days 7 to 28. they were evaluated 4 to 6 weeks after completion of the chemotherapy/radiation therapy protocol and received local excision, abdominoperineal resection, or both. patient follow-up times ranged from 7 to 161 months, with a mean follow-up time of 71 months. pathologic examination showed no residual carcinoma in 19 (45%) patients. the authors could not predict, based on clinical evaluation, which patients would have a complete response. of the patients with a complete clinical response, 44% had tumor in the pathology specimen. wide local excision was the most common initial operation (23 of 42 patients; 55%), with five of these patients subsequently requiring abdominoperineal resection. anal continence was retained in 18 of 42 (43%) patients. eleven patients experienced recurrent disease: six local recurrences, one distant, and four both local and distant. the 5-year overall survival rate was 82% and the 5-year disease-specific survival rate was 87%. there were no treatment related deaths. preoperative tumor size was the only factor significantly related to survival. contrary to other reports, tumor in the pathology specimen did not adversely affect long-term survival. hence, patients should be treated after chemotherapy/radiation therapy with surgical therapy sufficient to control local disease.
biliobiliary fistula: preoperative diagnosis and management implications. experience with cholecystohepaticodochal and cholecystocholedochal fistulas as a result of an erosion of gallstones from the gallbladder into the adjacent common duct in five patients is presented. the incidence was 1.4% in a population of 350 patients undergoing cholecystectomy. the condition was indicated clinically on the basis of a symptom triad of jaundice, fever, and pain with cholelithiasis in a small contracted gallbladder. in addition, proximal intra- and extrahepatic ductal dilatation, calculus in the common duct, and normal-caliber (or unprofiled) distal common duct on ultrasound scan were present in all the patients. endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography proved to be the most useful means of investigation, and it confirmed the diagnosis in four patients before surgery. a modified antegrade cholecystectomy was performed with the gallbladder opened inferiorly at the fundus, and the stones were evacuated. a partial cholecystectomy and choledochoplasty were accomplished with gallbladder flaps whenever feasible. other useful operative procedures are side-to-side hepaticodochojejunostomy and hepaticodochoduodenostomy. in the presence of high benign bile duct stricture, an approach to the left hepatic duct is now preferred for biliary bypass.
unresectable calcified bladder tumor: hemiacidrin irrigation as an adjunct to resection. radiographic calcification of urothelial malignancies is an uncommon finding. to our knowledge, calcification of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder preventing transurethral resection has not been reported previously. we report a case of an initially unresectable radiopaque bladder tumor and discuss the successful, conservative management with continuous bladder irrigation with hemiacidrin followed by complete transurethral resection.
ulcerative colitis disease activity as subjectively assessed by patient-completed questionnaires following orthotopic liver transplantation for sclerosing cholangitis. to assess whether or not liver transplantation and subsequent immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone affect ulcerative colitis symptomatology, we surveyed by questionnaire all 23 surviving patients with pretransplant colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis who were transplanted for primary sclerosing cholangitis between june 1982 and september 1985. at follow-up [89.8 +/- 7.6 weeks (mean +/- sem], all six patients who had had asymptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis reported continued ulcerative colitis quiescence. among the 17 patients who had had symptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis at time of liver transplantation, 88.2% reported improvement in overall ulcerative colitis severity (p less than 0.001), with significant improvement in the frequency of bowel movements reported by 100%, in crampy abdominal pain by 87.5%, in bowel urgency by 75%, in the occurrence of pus or mucus in stool by 87.5%, in the incidence of ulcerative colitis flares by 81.8%, and in the number of days unable to function normally due to ulcerative colitis symptoms by 78.6% (all at least p less than 0.01). these data demonstrate that ulcerative colitis symptom severity significantly improves following liver transplantation with immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone.
forty years of neuroglycopenia: neuropsychiatry for the internist. the case of a 65-year-old patient with an insulin-secreting pancreatic tumour and a 40-year history of neuropsychiatric disease is reported. the physiopathology and clinical features of acute, subacute, and chronic neuroglycopenia in patients with endogenous insulin hypersecretion are discussed.
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain. endosalpingosis, a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium, is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location. endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms. our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain. various aspects of this disease will also be discussed.
fludarabine: a new agent with marked cytoreductive activity in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. thirty-three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) with advanced rai stage (iii-iv) or progressive rai stage (0-ii) disease were treated with fludarabine as a single agent. eleven patients (33%) obtained a complete remission (cr), 13 (39%) a clinical cr with residual nodules as the only evidence of disease (nodular partial remission [pr]), and two patients (6%) achieved a pr for a total response rate of 79%. response was rapid, usually occurring after three to six courses of treatment. the major morbidity was infection. febrile episodes occurred in 13% of the courses (pneumonia 6%, minor infection 4%, and transient fever of undocumented cause 3%). fludarabine appears to be the most cytoreductive single agent so far studied in cll.
intrahepatic lymphatics opacified during hepatic arteriography in a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma. extrahepatic lymph node metastases are not uncommon in advanced cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). this is the account of a hcc case in which intrahepatic lymphatics running toward the hepatic hilus were clearly opacified during hepatic arteriography. the patient was treated by hepatic artery embolization followed by selective embolization of the portal branches, but lymph node metastases at the hepatic hilus were later found during follow-up. the clinical course of this case suggests that the communication between the tumor and the lymphatics was responsible for the lymph node metastasis.
multimodal therapy for the management of primary, nonmetastatic ewing's sarcoma of bone: a long-term follow-up of the first intergroup study. a total of 342 previously untreated eligible children were entered into the first intergroup ewing's sarcoma study (iess) between may 1973 and november 1978. in group i institutions, patients were randomized between treatment 1 (radiotherapy to primary lesion plus cyclophosphamide, vincristine, dactinomycin, and adriamycin [doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh] [vac plus adr]) or treatment 2 (same as treatment 1 without adr), and group ii institutions randomized patients between treatment 2 or treatment 3 (same as treatment 2 plus bilateral pulmonary radiotherapy [vac plus bpr]). the percentages of patients relapse-free and surviving (rfs) at 5 years for treatments 1, 2, and 3 were 60%, 24%, and 44%, respectively. there was strong statistical evidence of a significant advantage in rfs for treatment 1 (vac plus adr) versus 2 (vac alone) (p less than .001) and 3 (p less than .05) and also of treatment 3 versus 2 (p less than .001). similar significant results were observed with respect to overall survival. patients with disease at pelvic sites have significantly poorer survival at 5 years than those with disease at nonpelvic sites (34% v 57%; p less than .001). among pelvic cases, there was no evidence of differing survival by treatment (p = .81), but among nonpelvic cases, there was strong evidence of differing survival by treatment (p less than .001). the overall percentage of patients developing metastatic disease was 44%; the percentages by treatments 1, 2, and 3 were 30%, 72%, and 42%, respectively. the overall incidence of local recurrence was 15%, and there was no evidence that local recurrence rate differed by treatment. patient characteristics related to prognosis, both with respect to rfs and overall survival experience, were primary site (nonpelvic patients were most favorable) and patient age (younger patients were more favorable).
l-tyrosine potentiates the anorexia induced by mixed-acting sympathomimetic drugs in hyperphagic rats. the effects of l-tyrosine (l-tyr) on the anorectic activity of several mixed-acting sympathomimetics were determined during the dark cycle in rats made hyperphagic by food deprivation. l-tyr (200 mg/kg) significantly potentiated the anorectic activity of phenylpropanolamine, (-)-ephedrine and (+)-amphetamine by 48, 50 and 37%, respectively. when the dose of l-tyr was varied (25-400 mg/kg), a significant dose-dependent relationship was noted. the observed potentiation was positively correlated with increases in brain tyr concentrations; blockade of l-tyr uptake into the brain by the coadministration of l-valine prevented this potentiation. various other l-amino acids, as well as d-tyr, failed to mimic the potentiating action of l-tyr. as determined by alpha-methyl-p-tyr pretreatment, the l-tyr-induced potentiation was dependent upon increased catecholamine synthesis. although various other mixed-acting sympathomimetic anorexiants were similarly potentiated by l-tyr, the direct-acting beta-2 adrenoceptor anorexiants, salbutamol and methoxyphenamine, were not. these results indicate that l-tyr specifically potentiates the anorectic activity of the studied mixed-acting sympathomimetics and are consistent with the requirement of the central conversion of l-tyr to catecholamines via tyr hydroxylase for this response. the possibility that the effect of mixed-acting sympathomimetics is normally limited by the availability of l-tyr is suggested.
epstein-barr virus small nuclear rnas are not expressed in permissively infected cells in aids-associated leukoplakia. epstein-barr virus (ebv) dna structure and gene expression were analyzed in tissue specimens from oral hairy leukoplakia (hlp), a mucocutaneous lesion that develops in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). the structure of the terminal restriction enzyme fragments of ebv revealed that hlp is a permissive infection without a predominant, detectable population of ebv episomal dna. in rna preparations from this uniquely permissive infection, ebv replicative mrnas could be identified by northern analysis; however, the virally encoded small nuclear rnas, the ebers, were not detected in most hlp rna preparations. in situ hybridization detected eber expression in very rare cells. these data indicate that unlike other viral small nuclear rnas, the ebers are not expressed during viral replication and must participate in the complex maintenance of latent ebv infection.
heterogeneity in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy. a clinical and pet study. six patients with a slowly progressive aphasic disorder due to degenerative cortical disease are reported. the length of history varied from 18 months to 6 years. in 5 patients, there was a naming deficit, associated in 4 of these with some abnormalities in comprehension. one patient had a progressive history of reduced speech output, which was associated with an orofacial dyspraxia. all patients were studied neuropsychologically, and in addition regional cerebral metabolism was measured using position emission tomography. a localized left hemisphere deficit was found in all patients except 1, who had the longest history and the most profound clinical deficit, and who also had right hemisphere hypometabolism. the major brunt of the deficit was in the anterior portion of the left temporal lobe in all but 1 case, the patient with poor speech output who had a more severe left posterior frontal deficit. these findings suggest that in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy there is heterogeneity in the clinical presentation and anatomical site of the deficit, with possible implications for the underlying aetiology.
deficiencies of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins in outpatients with deep-vein thrombosis background. isolated deficiencies of antithrombin iii, protein c, protein s, and plasminogen have been implicated as a cause of deep-vein thrombosis. it is assumed that patients with recurrent, familial, or juvenile thrombosis are very likely to have such a deficiency. methods. we studied the prevalence of isolated deficiencies of these proteins in 277 consecutive outpatients with venographically proved acute deep-vein thrombosis, as compared with 138 age-matched and sex-matched controls without deep-vein thrombosis, and calculated the positive predictive value of a history of recurrent, familial, or juvenile venous thromboembolism for the presence of such a deficiency. results. the overall prevalence of deficiencies of any of these proteins in the patients with venous thrombosis was 8.3 percent (23 of 277 patients) (95 percent confidence interval, 5.4 to 12.4), as compared with 2.2 percent in the controls (3 of 138 subjects) (95 percent confidence interval, 0.5 to 6.1; p less than 0.05 for the comparison between groups). the positive predictive values for the presence of an isolated protein deficiency in patients with recurrent, familial, or juvenile deep-vein thrombosis, defined as the proportion of patients with the clinical finding who had a deficiency of one or more of the proteins, were 9, 16, and 12 percent, respectively. conclusions. the cause of acute venous thrombosis in most outpatients (91.7 percent) cannot be explained by abnormalities of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins. the information obtained from the medical history concerning recurrent or familial venous thrombosis or the onset of the disease at a young age is not useful for the identification of patients with protein deficiencies.
insulin-like growth factor ii-mediated proliferation of human neuroblastoma. neuroblastoma is an embryonal tumor that typically arises in cells of the developing adrenal medulla. igf-ii mrna is expressed at high levels in the adrenal cortex before birth but it is not detectable until after birth in the adrenal medulla. neuroblastoma cell lines corresponding to early adrenal medullary precursors did not express igf-ii, although all three cell lines we tested were growth stimulated by igf-ii. cell lines corresponding to more mature adrenal medullary cells expressed igf-ii, and one, sk-n-as, grows by an igf-ii autocrine mechanism (j. clin. invest. 84:829-839) el-badry, romanus, helman, cooper, rechler, and israel. 1989. an examination of human neuroblastoma tumor tissues for igf-ii gene expression using in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that igf-ii is expressed by tumor cells in only 5 of 21 neuroblastomas, but is detectable in cells of nonmalignant tissues including adrenal cortical cells, stromal fibroblasts, and eosinophils in all 21 tumors. these findings indicate that igf-ii may function as an autocrine growth factor for some neuroblastomas and as a paracrine growth factor for others. they suggest that the growth regulatory pathways utilized by neuroblastoma mimic those used in the precursor cell type from which individual tumors arise.
endoscopic ethmoidectomy and maxillary antrostomy in immunodeficient patients. the efficacy of endoscopic sinus surgery was evaluated in 11 patients with diverse types of primary immunodeficiency disease and symptoms of chronic sinusitis. the postoperative symptoms and ability to eliminate antibiotics were used as outcome parameters. in two patients, the follow-up time was too short to assess therapeutic effectiveness. five of the remaining nine patients had total or significant resolution of symptoms. patients with transient immunodeficiency had the best resolution of symptoms. eight of the total 11 patients were treated with intravenous immunoglobulin preoperatively, and in five patients, the treatment was continued postoperatively. the ability to terminate gamma-globulin reflects not the success of the surgery, but the transient nature of some of the immunodeficiencies.
amebic meningoencephalitis in a patient with aids caused by a newly recognized opportunistic pathogen. leptomyxid ameba. a fatal case of meningoencephalitis due to a leptomyxid ameba in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is presented. this opportunistic organism has not been previously recognized as a human pathogen. a 36-year-old male intravenous drug abuser died after an 18-day hospital course heralded by fever and headache and followed by nuchal rigidity and hemiparesis. computed tomography of the head showed multiple hypodense lesions. neuropathologic examination showed that in addition to human immunodeficiency virus encephalomyelitis, there was multifocal meningoencephalitis with trophozoites and cysts morphologically indistinguishable from those of acanthamoeba. these organisms were also found in the kidneys and adrenal glands. by immunofluorescence, the parasites showed antigenic identity with a free-living leptomyxid ameba and failed to react with any of a spectrum of antiacanthamoeba antisera. this emphasizes the importance of immunofluorescence identification of morphologically indistinguishable ameba species.
dietary fats and oils in cardiac arrhythmia in rats. the effect of long-term feeding of various dietary fats and oils on cardiac arrhythmia was studied in an animal model of sudden cardiac death. after confirmation that a dietary supplement of saturated animal fat (sf) increased the animals' susceptibility to develop cardiac arrhythmia under ischemic stress whereas the polyunsaturated fatty acids of sunflower seed oil (sso) reduced this susceptibility, we found that diets supplemented with either chemically refined palm oil (po-i) or physically refined palm oil (po-ii) gave results that were generally intermediate in value between the sf and the sso groups. however, during reperfusion of a previously ischemic heart, both po-i- and po-ii-supplemented diets appeared to be as effective as sso in reducing ventricular premature beats. in addition, the incidence of animals displaying severe ventricular fibrillation was much less after palm-oil feeding than it was after sf feeding. these preliminary results warrant further investigation of the potential antiarrhythmic effects of commercial palm oil.
acute osteomyelitis in children. reassessment of etiologic agents and their clinical characteristics. one hundred thirty-five children with acute osteomyelitis were identified by chart review during a 7-year period, january 1, 1980, through december 31, 1986. bacteriologic causes were detected in 75 (55%) of the patients. staphylococcus aureus, haemophilus influenzae type b, and pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified in 34 (25%), 16 (12%), and eight (6%) children, respectively. staphylococcus aureus occurred in all age groups, h influenzae type b occurred only in children younger than 3 years and was the number one cause of disease in this group. pseudomonas aeruginosa occurred exclusively in children older than 9 years. children with h influenzae type b had clinical and laboratory findings that were almost indistinguishable from a matched group of children with osteomyelitis due to other known bacteria, although children with h influenzae type b tended to have more joint effusions (63% vs 27%), less lower extremity disease (22% vs 70%), and fewer positive cultures from bone or joint aspirates (41% vs 89%). unlike most pediatric cases of osteomyelitis, the ones due to p aeruginosa did not represent the hematogenous route of infection; penetrating injury to the foot was present in every case. children with p aeruginosa infections were older than 9 years (100%), predominantly male (88%), often afebrile (83%), and never bacteremic. these data provide guidelines for the initial work-up and management of osteomyelitis in children.
the long-term effectiveness of hysteroscopic treatment of menorrhagia and leiomyomas. one hundred fifty-six of 177 patients admitted to the st. luke's/roosevelt hospital center between november 1973 and november 1988 for hysteroscopic treatment of menorrhagia and/or uterine leiomyomas were followed for long-term complications and necessity for repeat surgery. ninety-four patients underwent submucous resection alone and 62 patients underwent endometrial ablation with or without submucous resection. among the submucous-resection group, 24.5% reported late postoperative problems and 15.9% underwent further surgery. after 9 years of followup, 83.9% of the patients had not required further surgery. among the ablation group, 22.5% experienced recurrence of increased bleeding and 8.1% had another surgical procedure. after 6 years of follow-up, 91.3% of the patients had not required further surgery. twenty-one patients became pregnant after submucous resection, with 18 infants delivered. no patients who underwent endometrial ablation became pregnant. this modality of treatment appears to be effective over the long term, although effectiveness appears to diminish with time.
the standardized assessment of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions in meningeal tumors. tissue markers of cellular proliferation have been recently utilized as prognostic indicators in tumors of the central nervous system. nucleolar organizer regions represent transcriptionally active sites of ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) and can be identified by a simple argyrophilic technique. the authors describe a standardized approach to the assessment of these argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions in meningeal tumors. twenty-five meningiomas were classified histologically into benign, atypical, or malignant groups. in addition, two hemangiopericytomas and one leptomeningeal melanoma were examined. appropriate sections were silver stained and argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions were counted in 200 nuclei. the mean argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region count was statistically different (p less than 0.001) between benign tumors (245 +/- 156, 1.23/cell), atypical tumors (497 +/- 135, 2.49/cell), and malignant tumors (921 +/- 59, 4.61/cell). the count for recurrent meningiomas (544 +/- 76) was also statistically different (p less than 0.02) from non-recurrent tumors (329 +/- 183). the standardized assessment of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions can be easily performed by any surgical pathology laboratory without specialized equipment and, in meningeal tumors, may be useful as an independent indicator of biological behavior.
transrectal ultrasonography of rectal carcinoma. preoperative transrectal ultrasonographic staging of 38 patients with known adenocarcinoma of the rectum was performed. six of these patients had preoperative radiation therapy. of the 32 without radiation therapy, transrectal ultrasonography (trus) correctly staged disease limited to the rectum in 90% (18 of 20) and transmural extension in 50% (6 of 12), for a sensitivity for evaluating transmural extension of 50%, specificity of 90%, positive predictive value of 75%, and a negative predictive value of 25%. nineteen patients had positive nodes. the sensitivity and specificity of detecting nodal metastases by trus were 63% and 85%. the positive and negative predictive values were 86% and 61%, respectively. trus was slightly superior to digital rectal examination in staging patients because of its superior ability to detect adenopathy. adjacent organ involvement was correctly evaluated in five of six patients; peritumoral fibrosis was misinterpreted as tumor extension into uterus and ovary in one woman. tumor shrinkage in all patients undergoing radiation therapy was identified, but fibrosis and edema made staging by trus unreliable in those patients.
evaluation of pulmonary arterial pressure by doppler colour flow mapping in patients with a ductus arteriosus. blood flow in the pulmonary artery was studied by doppler colour flow mapping and cardiac catheterisation in 19 patients with a ductus arteriosus and different pulmonary artery pressures. in the four patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures colour doppler flow mapping showed multicoloured wide and long systolic and diastolic jets in the pulmonary artery. in the 15 patients with raised pulmonary arterial pressure the systolic jets varied from multicoloured to red and were thinner: in patients with considerably raised pulmonary arterial pressure the jets became redder during diastole. the doppler velocity tracings showed that in patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures the mean peak systolic velocity was higher than the mean end diastolic velocity--so that in all four the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was less than 2. the mean peak systolic velocity was much higher than the mean end diastolic velocity in 13 of the 15 patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure; this meant that the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was greater than 2 in 10 of 11 patients. the end diastolic velocity was significantly lower in those patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure than in those with normal artery pressure. there was an inverse linear correlation between the mean pulmonary artery pressure and end diastolic ductal jet velocity in 17 of the 19 patients. colour flow mapping and this quantitative doppler technique can detect pulmonary artery hypertension in patients with a ductus arteriosus.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xxi. reperfusate composition: superiority of blood cardioplegia over crystalloid cardioplegia in limiting reperfusion damage--importance of endogenous oxygen free radical scavengers in red blood cells. postischemic damage is caused partially by oxygen free radical-mediated injury. this study will show that (1) crystalloid cardioplegia with room air oxygen is deleterious because it is devoid of free radical scavengers and (2) blood cardioplegia limits damage because it contains endogenous free radical scavengers in red blood cells. methods: thirty-two dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 20 minutes of regional blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass. ten dogs received only the blood cardioplegic solution (containing its endogenous free radical scavengers); five received initial blood cardioplegia (5 minutes) with endogenous free radical scavengers (catalase and glutathione peroxidase) blocked by aminotriazole and n-ethylmaleimide, respectively; 12 received initial crystalloid cardioplegic solution oxygenated by room air (oxygen tension = 150 mm hg); seven without and five with exogenous free radical scavengers (superoxide dismutase, catalase, coenzyme q10); five received initial deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution (oxygen tension = 6 mm hg); and five received deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution. results: blood cardioplegia with endogenous free radical scavengers produced the best recovery of systolic shortening (69% systolic shortening) and resulted in the least histochemical damage (11% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining). the worst recovery and most damage occurred if blood cardioplegia was preceded by oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia (3% systolic shortening, 48% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia) or if free radical scavengers were blocked in the initial period of blood cardioplegia (3% systolic shortening, 41% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia). conversely, deoxygenation or supplementation of oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution with exogenous free radical scavengers restored 60% systolic shortening (p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia) and 54% systolic shortening (p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia) and reduced damage to 34% and 21% (both p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia). conclusion: blood cardioplegic solutions containing their own endogenous free radical scavengers are superior to crystalloid cardioplegic solutions, because they limit oxygen-mediated perfusion damage and restore contractile function. initial crystalloid cardioplegic washout negates the salutary effect of blood cardioplegia. exogenous free radical scavenger supplementation or deoxygenation of the cardioplegic reperfusate is necessary only if crystalloid cardioplegia is used.
cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor. seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found. in two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed. in five patients, in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum, conservative operations (three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections) were performed, thus avoiding needless, more extensive surgery.
spirometric criteria for hospital admission of patients with acute exacerbation of copd. recent studies have demonstrated that there is a high relapse rate for patients discharged from the emergency department (ed) following treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). objective criteria have not been established to determine when to hospitalize these patients. this study evaluated spirometric criteria for that use. eighty-three patients with an acute exacerbation of copd were studied; 45 percent were admitted to the hospital while 17 percent of the patients who were discharged suffered a relapse. an fev1 of less than 40 percent of predicted normal identified patients who required hospital admission or suffered a relapse with a sensitivity of 0.96, specificity of 0.58, and overall accuracy of 0.78. combining clinical assessment with spirometry led to an improvement in specificity to 0.73 with a minimal decrease in sensitivity. patients with an fev1 of 40 percent or greater of predicted normal or no clinical evidence of respiratory distress after treatment may be safely discharged from the hospital. patients not meeting these criteria are at high risk for relapse and should either be admitted or have further aggressive ed therapy.
the use of glisson's capsule flap in reduced orthotopic hepatic transplantation. the technique of graft reduction has increased the donor pool for children in need of orthotopic hepatic transplantation. however, this technique has been associated with increased perioperative blood loss. further refinements, such as covering the cut surface of the donor hepatic duct with a flap of glisson's capsule, may help reduce this complication.
the importance of prognostic factors in the individual treatment of patients with disseminated germ cell tumours. following chemotherapy for disseminated testicular cancer, 55 patients underwent surgery because of residual tumour. the histological findings were viable tumour in 12 patients, mature teratoma in 12 and fibrosis and/or necrosis in 31. retroperitoneal abdominal masses were evaluated radiographically before and after chemotherapy. the reduction in size of these masses after chemotherapy appeared to have prognostic significance. a decrease of more than 70% was always associated with fibrosis. a residual mass over 50 mm indicated viable tumour or mature teratoma. seminoma or embryonal carcinoma was more likely to result in fibrosis/necrosis in the resected tissue. both the indiana and the eortc classification models can be used for prognosis. radiographic measurements before and after chemotherapy are of considerable prognostic significance. these objective indicators help in planning treatment and so diminish the side effects of therapy and maintain or even increase the high cure rate in disseminated testicular cancer.
ultrasonography in patients with suspected acute appendicitis: a prospective study. the diagnostic accuracy of high-resolution real-time ultrasonography was prospectively studied in 240 patients admitted to the hospital with suspected acute appendicitis. the criteria for ultrasound diagnosis of appendicitis included a sausage-shaped, aperistaltic, hypoechoic structure when imaged along its longitudinal axis, with a target-like appearance on transverse section. the ultrasonographic findings were correlated with surgical-pathological outcome in 82 cases with proven appendicitis, with laparotomy findings in another 21 patients and with clinical follow-up in the remainder. the overall sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis were 78%, 92% and 87%, respectively. the positive predictive value was 84% and the negative predictive value was 88%. ultrasonography may significantly improve the diagnostic accuracy in patients with suspected acute appendicitis and should be performed in all patients in whom the clinical diagnosis is equivocal. the ultrasonographic findings must be interpreted in light of the clinical findings.
cardiac conducting tissue. a simplified technique for examination of the sa and av nodes. we describe a modified method for examination of the atrioventricular and sinoatrial nodes that displays the major elements of the cardiac conducting system, yet is not time-consuming for the technician. we examined 31 cases in three categories: cases with previous cardiac history, sudden deaths from no known cause, and cases where death was sudden and accidental. all cases showed histologic abnormalities in the cardiac tissue. we contend that our method would permit such examination to be routinely used in the pathology laboratory.
transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy for stenosing papillitis. the papilla of vater and its sphincter of oddi, lying at the confluence of the bile and pancreatic ducts in man, have long been suspected as a source of upper abdominal pain. enlarging the opening of the transpapillary segment of the bile and major pancreatic ducts by using a transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy resulted in death in a patient with a peripapillary diverticulum and pancreas divisum. eight-six patients followed for 1 to 10 years experienced a 75% success rate. thirty-six patients had a marked stenosis of their duct of wirsung, suggesting that their pain was primarily from the pancreas. the remainder had either a generalized narrowing (40 patients) or a normal (7 patients) papilla. pain was not satisfactorily resolved in patients with an associated pancreas divisum, chronic pancreatitis, and recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis with alcoholism.
endocrine and renal effects of nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system in patients with essential hypertension. results of a multicenter trial. the modern approach to the treatment of hypertension study group. use of thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers in the treatment of hypertension may result in metabolic derangements and/or disturbances in the parameters of renal function, which offset the benefits of blood pressure reduction by adversely affecting other cardiovascular risk factors, particularly in special patient groups such as the elderly or those with concomitant diseases. newer agents including calcium channel blockers, which exert potent antihypertensive effects without adversely affecting metabolic parameters unfavorably, are used with increasing frequency in hypertensive patients, but their clinical utility has been limited by the need for multiple daily dosing with attendant fluctuations in plasma levels thought to be associated with nuisance side effects and possible gaps in therapeutic protection. the modern approach to the treatment of hypertension (math) trial was conducted to determine the efficacy and safety of the new once-daily nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (gits) formulation in a large cohort of mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients overall, and to identify specific effects of therapy in the presence of complicating factors such as diabetes and obesity. a total of 1155 patients from 127 centers were treated with nifedipine gits in the math trial, including 157 diabetic (fasting plasma glucose greater than 120 mg/dl or on hypoglycemic therapy) and 747 nondiabetic patients. there were 458 obese patients (body mass index [bmi] greater than 30), 489 overweight patients (bmi greater than or equal to 25 less than or equal to 30), and 206 patients of normal weight (bmi less than 25).
axial myoclonus of propriospinal origin. three patients are described with nonrhythmic repetitive axial myoclonic jerks causing symmetric flexion of the neck, trunk, hips and knees. no electrophysiological evidence of a cortical or brainstem reticular origin for the myoclonus was found. in the first patient the axial jerks only occurred spontaneously. the latencies of recruitment of spinal segments during a jerk indicated that the discharge arose in the mid thoracic cord and then slowly spread at about 5 ms-1 up and down the cord to involve rostral and caudal segments. no structural lesion was identified in this patient. in the second patient spontaneous and reflex axial jerks developed following the excision of a cervical haemangioblastoma. in the stimulus-induced jerks the relative latencies of muscles innervated by rostral and caudal spinal segments suggested that the myoclonus originated between the upper cervical and midthoracic cord. in the final patient, emg activity during spontaneous and stimulus-induced jerks commenced in the rectus abdominis, and was followed by later activity in muscles innervated by rostral spinal segments, suggesting that the myoclonus originated in the midthoracic cord. no structural lesion was identified in this patient. electrophysiological evidence is used to argue a spinal origin for these axial jerks in all 3 cases. there are striking features common both to this form of human myoclonus and to long propriospinal pathways identified in animals. the new concept of propriospinal myoclonus is suggested.
co2-welded venous anastomosis: enhancement of weld strength with heterologous fibrin glue. the milliwatt co2 laser was used to perform end-to-end anastomoses in canine jugular veins. there was a high disruption rate (50%) in laser-welded veins (n = 10). fibrin glue (n = 17), formed from human fresh-frozen plasma, enhanced the weld strength decreasing the disruption rate (18%), resulting in an 82% patency which nearly equaled the contralateral sutured vein patency (93%). the bursting strength was improved with fibrin glue. transmural necrosis was present initially in all groups but extended for a longer distance in the vessel wall in laser-welded anastomoses. sutured anastomoses exhibited a greater inflammatory response. in laser-welded anastomoses endothelial cells were not as confluent as in sutured anastomoses by six weeks. carbon dioxide laser-welded end-to-end vein anastomoses appear to be impractical because they disrupt too easily. however, the addition of heterologous fibrin glue to the weld results in a reasonably strong anastomosis with histologic properties that may be beneficial in vein bypass grafts.
expression of ki-1 antigen (cd30) in mesenchymal tumors. expression of cd30(ki-1) antigen has long been considered to be restricted to activated lymphocytes and related tumors. however, expression of this antigen has also been detected in embryonal carcinomas, in nonembryonal carcinomas, in malignant melanomas, and even in some myeloid cell lines and macrophages at late stages of differentiation. in this study, using monoclonal antibody ki-1, expression of cd30 antigen was immunohistochemically examined in frozen sections of 28 benign and 63 malignant mesenchymal tumors. the authors found cd30 expressed in two of four leiomyomas, seven of 11 leiomysarcomas, one of six rhabdomyosarcomas, two of two aggressive fibromatoses, one of three fibrosarcomas, two of four synovial sarcomas, one giant cell tumors of tendon sheaths, all five malignant fibrous histiocytomas, all three osteosarcomas, one of three ewing's sarcomas, in a tumor cell subpopulation of two of ten malignant schwannomas, and in the schwann cell compartment of one of two ganglioneuromas tested. furthermore, cd30 was consistently expressed in the myoepithelial compartment of 13 fibroadenomas. however, all five lipomas, all seven liposarcomas, all three neuroblastomas, both ganglioneuroblastomas, both chondrosarcomas, and tumors of disputed origin tested were consistently cd30 negative. these findings indicate that, outside the lymphatic system, cd30 antigen is not restricted to epithelial neoplasms but may also be present in tumors of mesenchymal origin. the authors conclude that cd30 antigen, although having limited utility in the differential diagnosis of tumors of questionable histogenesis, may eventually define relevant subgroups within the main tumor categories.
why patients delay seeking care for cancer symptoms. what you can do about it. patient delay in seeking care for cancer symptoms is common and well documented by research studies. fear and denial, lack of information about cancer, and financial considerations all contribute to this delay. patient education may be an important factor in decreasing the length of delay and thereby improving treatment outcome. by making good use of opportunities for patient education, primary care physicians may positively influence the prognosis of several types of cancer, particularly breast cancer and malignant melanoma of the skin.
membrane oxygenator prevents lung reperfusion injury in canine cardiopulmonary bypass the effect of blood activation on lung reperfusion injury during cardiopulmonary bypass was investigated in 20 dogs with the use of a bubble oxygenator (n = 10) or a membrane oxygenator (n = 10). in the bubble oxygenator group, significant leukocyte and platelet right to left atrium gradients were found 15 minutes after lung reperfusion (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01) accompanied by a sharp increase in plasma malondialdehyde concentration 5 minutes after lung reperfusion, whereas no significant right to left atrium gradient of leukocytes or platelets nor significant increase in plasma malondialdehyde concentration was observed in the membrane oxygenator group. in both the bubble oxygenator and membrane oxygenator group, similar mild to moderate lung histological changes were found before lung reperfusion. after lung reperfusion, however, more endothelial cell swelling (p less than 0.05), leukocyte (p less than 0.01) and platelet (p less than 0.01) accumulation in lung capillaries, leakage of erythrocytes into the alveolar space (p less than 0.05), and type i cell damage (p less than 0.05) were found only in the bubble oxygenator group. eventually, a significantly higher lung water content was found in the bubble oxygenator group than in the membrane oxygenator group (p less than 0.01) after cardiopulmonary bypass. this study indicated that lung injury during cardiopulmonary bypass starts mainly after lung reperfusion, which was correlated with lung leukocyte and platelet sequestration associated with different types of oxygenators.
immunocytochemical profile of benign and carcinomatous effusions. a practical approach to difficult diagnosis. one of the great challenges in the cytodiagnosis of effusions is the distinction between reactive mesothelium/histiocytes and cancer cells. this is notably true in patients having undergone radiation and/or chemotherapy. to establish whether monoclonal antibodies (moabs) could be used as reliable diagnostic adjuvants, the authors retrospectively and blindly studied 60 cases diagnosed by standard cytologic criteria (malignant, benign, and equivocal), with a panel of seven readily available moabs (cytokeratins, vimentin, ema, b72.3, alpha-cea, hmfg-2, and leu-m1) and the lectin ulex europaeus i. all 18 (100%) malignant cases showed reactivity with ema and hmfg, whereas 17 (95%) and 11 (61%) reacted with b72.3 and alpha-cea, respectively. combinations of (1) ema + b72.3, (2) ema + alpha-cea, and (3) ema + alpha-cea + b72.3 displayed positivity in 17 (95%), 11 (61%), and 10 (56%) malignant cases, respectively. of the 18 benign cases, 7 reacted with hmfg and 2 each with ema and b72.3. only one case (5.5%) reacted with both ema and b72.3. based on these results, the 24 equivocal cases were regrouped into 14 malignant and 10 benign cases. follow-up effusions obtained within the ensuing three months in all these patients allowed the authors to unequivocally confirm the diagnosis in all but five. the combination of ema and b72.3 moabs detected malignant cells in 95% of the cases, with a 3.5% incidence of false positive cases in this study. a panel of ema, b72.3, and alpha-cea moabs should prove the most useful and simple approach to the correct diagnosis in most questionable effusions. some of the potential pitfalls are discussed.
pheochromocytoma and acute myocardial infarction. when a pheochromocytoma is manifested as an acute myocardial illness, diagnosis may be difficult to make. if the tumor is suspected early enough, a workup can be done while the complications of the myocardial illness are being controlled (as in our case). the tumor can then be expeditiously removed before any further problems develop. the case presented here underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a pheochromocytoma in any patient who has an unexpected myocardial event.
angiographic demonstration of acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following aneurysm rupture. case report. a case documenting the acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following rupture of an aneurysm arising from the left internal carotid artery is reported. the patient deteriorated due to recurrent hemorrhage while undergoing angiography 12 hours after the initial aneurysm rupture. the acute deterioration was accompanied by dilatation of the ipsilateral pupil and occurred during injection of contrast material. there was delayed filling of the middle cerebral artery complex along with this narrowing. the arterial narrowing was confirmed to have completely disappeared on an angiographic series performed 14 minutes after the first series of films. the etiology of the acute vasospasm is discussed.
muscle fatigue in mcardle's disease. muscle fibre conduction velocity and surface emg frequency spectrum during ischaemic exercise. the origin of fatigue in mcardle's disease is still a matter of debate. both a reduction of muscle membrane excitability and failure of excitation-contraction (e-c) coupling have been suggested as causes. we performed intermittent isometric biceps brachii contractions (80% maximal voluntary contraction, rate 30/min) under local ischaemia in 5 mcardle's disease patients and 26 healthy controls. our results show that in mcardle's disease the exerted force is less, the surface emg (semg) amplitude steadily increases, and that the power density spectrum (pds) shifts to lower frequencies, the latter without significant differences when compared with normals. the most important finding is that muscle membrane excitability remains unimpaired during ischaemic exercise, establishing a dominant role for intramuscular lactic acid formation in the reduction of muscle fibre conduction velocity seen in normal subjects. as is indicated by the shift of the pds towards lower frequencies, as well as by the increase in semg amplitude, it can be concluded that during ischaemic exercise in patients with myophosphorylase deficiency, fatigue occurs without alterations in muscle membrane excitability and is due to a failure of e-c coupling.
spinal hemangioblastoma, syrinx, and hydrocephalus in a two-year-old child. a two-year-old child presented with an acute inability to bear weight. radiological investigation revealed a large cervicothoracolumbar syrinx of no known cause. during investigation, acute communicating hydrocephalus developed, which required a shunt. at surgery, a small thoracic spinal cord hemangioblastoma was discovered and excised. complete recovery with collapse of the syrinx followed. the clinical features of this rare childhood tumor and its associated effects are discussed.
outcome of cpr in a large metropolitan area--where are the survivors? study objectives: survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in cities with populations of more than 1 million has not been studied adequately. this study was undertaken to determine the overall survival rate for chicago and the effect of previously reported variables on survival, and to compare the observed survival rates with those previously reported. design: consecutive prehospital arrest patients were studied prospectively during 1987. setting: the study area was the city of chicago, which has more than 3 million inhabitants in 228 square miles. the emergency medical services system, with 55 around-the-clock ambulances and 550 paramedics, is single-tiered and responds to more than 200,000 emergencies per year. type of participants: we studied 3,221 victims of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest on whom paramedics attempted resuscitation. measurements and main results: ninety-one percent of patients were pronounced dead in emergency departments, 7% died in hospitals, and 2% survived to hospital discharge. survival was significantly greater with bystander-witnessed arrest, bystander-initiated cpr, paramedic-witnessed arrest, initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation, and shorter treatment intervals. conclusions: the overall survival rates were significantly lower than those reported in most previous studies, all based on smaller communities; they were consistent with the rates reported in the one comparable study of a large city. the single factor that most likely contributed to the poor overall survival was the relatively long interval between collapse and defibrillation. logistical, demographic, and other special characteristics of large cities may have affected the rates. to improve treatment of cardiac arrest in large cities and maximize the use of community resources, we recommend further study of comparable metropolitan areas using standardized terms and methodology. detailed analysis of each component of the emergency medical services systems will aid in making improvements to maximize survival of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
in-hospital and 1-year mortality in 1,524 women after myocardial infarction. comparison with 4,315 men. we determined in-hospital and 1-year prognoses after acute myocardial infarction (mi) in 5,839 consecutive patients derived from 14 of 21 coronary care units in israel during 1981-1983. age-adjusted in-hospital mortality was 23.1% in 1,524 women and 15.7% in 4,315 men (p less than 0.0005). one-year age-adjusted mortality rates in patients surviving hospitalization were 11.8% in women and 9.3% in men (p = 0.03). cumulative age-adjusted 1-year mortality rates were 31.8% in women and 23.1% in men (p less than 0.0005). relative odds of mortality, covariate-adjusted for major prognostic factors that included age, prior mi, congestive heart failure, and infarct location by electrocardiogram, indicated that female gender was independently and significantly associated with increased mortality both during hospitalization (relative odds, 1.72; 95% confidence interval, 1.45-2.04) and at 1 year after discharge (relative odds, 1.32; 95% confidence interval, 1.05-1.66). in separate multivariate analyses for each gender, a major factor that emerged as a predictor of outcome in women, but not in men, was a reported history of diabetes mellitus, both for in-hospital mortality and for 1-year mortality. however, even in the nondiabetics in this population, female gender was a significant, independent predictor of in-hospital mortality. the findings of the present study substantiate that women fare worse than men after suffering an acute mi, that increased age does not fully account for the increased mortality in women, and that diabetic women are at particularly high risk once mi has occurred.
fetomaternal bleeding as a cause of recurrent fetal morbidity and mortality. a woman had fetomaternal bleeding of unknown cause during at least three of five pregnancies. each event was associated with significant fetal morbidity or mortality. although fetomaternal bleeding has been reported as a cause of unexplained fetal death, its occurrence in subsequent pregnancies has not been described previously.
spontaneous pneumothorax: marker gas technique for predicting outcome of manual aspiration [published erratum appears in bmj 1991 mar 23;302(6778):697] objective--to determine whether in a patient with spontaneous pneumothorax the presence or absence of a pleural leak can be shown at the time of manual aspiration by use of a marker gas. also, to find out if the technique can predict whether manual aspiration will be successful, hence avoiding the need for intercostal tube drainage. design--prospective study of 25 episodes of pneumothorax during which patients breathed air from a douglas bag that contained chlorofluorocarbon gases from a metered dose inhaler while the pneumothorax was aspirated. setting--medical unit of a district general hospital. patients--22 patients who presented over nine months with acute pneumothorax. main outcome measures--presence or absence of chlorofluorocarbon marker gases in the aspirate. presence or absence of sustained re-expansion of the affected lung in the chest radiograph. results--marker gas was detected in the aspirate from 16 out of 25 pneumothoraces. of these, 13 required intercostal tube drainage because of failure of the lung to re-expand. marker gas was not detected in nine cases, and in all of these cases manual aspiration resulted in sustained re-expansion of the lung. conclusions--the presence or absence of a pleural leak during manual aspiration of spontaneous pneumothorax can be shown by using this technique. the absence of marker gas in the aspirate implies that manual aspiration will be successful, whereas its presence predicts, in most cases, either failure of manual aspiration to expand the lung or early re-collapse of the lung.
emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient neurologically based clinical grading scales offer excellent prognostic information for the patient suffering diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). these grading scales are less applicable to patients with life-threatening intraparenchymal hematomas after aneurysmal rupture. during the last 3 years, four patients in a comatose state with brain stem compression syndromes documented by computed tomographic scans have undergone emergent operation in our neurosurgical service. each patient was so critically ill that we believed it unwise to delay craniotomy for diagnostic angiography. the average delay from the onset of coma to skin incision was 3.02 hours (range, 1.67-6.5 hours), and the average delay from arrival in our unit until skin incision was 1.8 hours (range, 0.75-2.5 hours). the condition of two arousable patients deteriorated while they were in the emergency room, presumably from new bleeding. each patient underwent craniotomy for hematoma evacuation, definitive aneurysm clipping, and lobectomy for decompression. temporary clipping was employed in one patient, and intraoperative rupture occurred in two others. three patients survived but retain significant disability. emergent craniotomy with empiric exploration of appropriate subarachnoid cisterns after hematoma decompression may be life-saving in some cases. the delay imposed for diagnostic angiography may be avoided in attempts to save vital minutes of severe brain stem compression.
comparison of cardiac catheterization and doppler echocardiography in the decision to operate in aortic and mitral valve disease clinical decisions utilizing either doppler echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization data were compared in adult patients with isolated or combined aortic and mitral valve disease. a clinical decision to operate, not operate or remain uncertain was made by experienced cardiologists given either doppler echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization data. a prospective evaluation was performed on 189 consecutive patients (mean age 67 years) with valvular heart disease who were being considered for surgical treatment on the basis of clinical information. all patients underwent cardiac catheterization and detailed doppler echocardiographic examination. three sets of two cardiologist decision makers who did not know patient identity were given clinical information in combination with either doppler echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization data. the combination of doppler echocardiographic and clinical data was considered inadequate for clinical decision making in 21% of patients with aortic and 5% of patients with mitral valve disease. the combination of cardiac catheterization and clinical data was considered inadequate in 2% of patients with aortic and 2% of patients with mitral valve disease. among the remaining patients, the cardiologists using echocardiographic or angiographic data were in agreement on the decision to operate or not operate in 113 (76% overall). when the data were analyzed by specific valve lesion, decisions based on doppler echocardiography or catheterization were in agreement in 92%, 90%, 83% and 69%, respectively, of patients with aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation. differences in cardiac output determination, estimation of valvular regurgitation and information concerning coronary anatomy were the main reasons for different clinical management decisions. these results suggest that for most adult patients with aortic or mitral valve disease, alone or in combination, doppler echocardiographic data enable the clinician to make the same decision reached with catheterization data.
interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of recombinant alpha-interferon treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. in a randomized controlled trial of recombinant alpha-2a interferon for chronic hepatitis b, interferon antibodies developed in 21 (39%) of 54 chinese adults who received ifn. no correlation was observed between sex, age, pretreatment serum alt level or liver histological findings and the development of interferon antibodies. antibodies were significantly more likely to develop in patients who received lower doses (2.5 or 5 mu/m2) of alpha-2a interferon than in those who received a higher dose (10 mu/m2): 53% vs. 11% (p = 0.006). the development of interferon antibodies appeared to reverse the initial antiviral response to treatment, with reappearance of hepatitis b virus dna in serum in 12 patients and hbeag in three patients. sustained clearance of hbeag was achieved in only one (5%) patient but was achieved in seven (21%) patients without interferon antibodies. the mere presence of interferon antibodies did not preclude an antiviral response to interferon therapy, but patients with high titer neutralizing antibodies were less likely to respond. these findings suggest that interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of alpha-2a interferon. a higher incidence of interferon antibodies in chinese vs. white patients with chronic hepatitis b may contribute to the poorer antiviral response in chinese patients.
polycystic ovary syndrome. polycystic ovary syndrome is a disorder of unknown cause characterized by anovulation, hyperandrogenism, and gonadotropin secretory abnormalities producing oligo-ovulation or anovulation. hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are important features of this syndrome. because other causes of androgen excess may produce similar clinical and biochemical findings, pco remains a diagnosis of exclusion. treatment is directed toward relieving symptoms of hyperandrogenemia in order to stimulate ovulation, correcting obesity, and inducing regular menses to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer.
adjuvant therapy for node-negative breast cancer. the use of prognostic factors in selecting patients. patients with invasive breast cancer and pathologically negative lymph nodes (no) have a favorable 10-year survival rate, particularly with small (less than 1 cm) primary tumors. overall, however, 20% to 35% will experience recurrence with local therapy only. adjuvant chemotherapy or tamoxifen have prolonged disease-free survival (dfs), but not overall survival (os). unanswered questions of optimal end point (dfs or os) and the risk of treating many to benefit few have prompted clinicians to use prognostic indicators to facilitate treatment recommendations. currently, the most readily available and accurate information comes from tnm staging, pathologic features, and hormone receptors. ploidy, s-phase fraction, her-2-neu amplification or over-expression, and cathepsin-d may be useful prognostic indices. until a more precise system of weighing several prognostic variables is developed, the decision to recommend adjuvant systemic therapy in this generally good prognosis group will have to be thoughtfully considered by patient and physician. whenever possible, patients should be encouraged to enter clinical trials.
the significance of leu 8 negative t cells in lymphoid skin infiltrates: malignant transformation, selective homing or t-cell activation? the expression of leu 8 was studied on skin biopsies from a large group of patients with benign and malignant skin disorders and correlated with the expression of t-cell differentiation antigens and activation markers. the effect of in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood t cells and t-cell subsets on the expression of leu 8 antigen was also determined. in all the skin diseases studied an inverse relationship was found between the proportions of cells expressing leu 8 and hla-dr. a deficiency of leu 8 positive cells was not specific for mycosis fungoides, but was also found in several reactive dermatoses. stimulation of peripheral blood cells with phytohaemagglutinin (pha), concanavalin a (con a), and anti-cd3-pma resulted in a considerable decrease of leu 8 antigen expression on day 3 in both cd4+ and cd8+ t cells. these data suggest that the low proportion of leu 8+ t cells in mycosis fungoides and several reactive skin disorders is not related to malignant transformation or selective homing of leu 8- t cells, but probably results from local t-cell activation.
the role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices. peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension, and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding. treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices, stoma revision with devascularization, injection sclerotherapy, portacaval shunt, or liver transplantation. we reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices, who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis. fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients. surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients, although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients. injection sclerotherapy, used in three patients, effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery. definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding (portacaval shunt or liver transplantation) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery.
sinus nodal dysfunction in young patients with long qt syndrome. although sinus bradycardia and low heart rate with exercise have been found in some patients with long qt syndrome, systematic evaluation, including intracardiac electrophysiologic (eps) tests of sinus node function, has not been reported. records were reviewed of 14 children and adolescents (age 3 to 16 years) with long qt syndrome (mean qtc 0.51 second) who underwent noninvasive testing and intracardiac eps because of syncope or cardiac arrest. the resting electrocardiographic (ecg) sinus heart rate was low for age in only 1 of 13 patients, while the lowest holter-monitored sinus heart rate was abnormal in 4 of 12. the maximum exercise heart rate was abnormally low in 6 of the 12 who underwent exercise testing. for the eps tests, the corrected sinus node recovery time (csnrt) was long in 8 of 14 and the sinoatrial conduction time (sact) was long in six of the nine in whom it was calculable. when both noninvasive and eps indices are considered, 13 of the 14 patients had some type of sinus node dysfunction.
oral magnetic particles in mr imaging of the abdomen and pelvis. two phase 2 clinical trials of an oral superparamagnetic contrast agent for enhancement on magnetic resonance images of the intestine were performed. in trial 1, 31 male patients with cancer of the testis underwent follow-up examinations of the abdomen at 0.5 and 1.5 t after oral administration of magnetic particles. in trial 2, 31 female patients with pelvic and lower abdominal disease were examined at 1.5 t after administration of the contrast material. the patients each ingested 800 ml of contrast material over approximately 2 hours. concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5 g/l did not induce blurring or metallic artifacts. distribution was homogeneous through the gastrointestinal tract. in all patients, a loss of signal intensity was observed on proton density-, t1-, and t2-weighted images. the diagnostic information from postcontrast images in trial 2 was greater in 16 patients (52%). contrast enhancement was independent of field strength; no major side effects were observed. artifacts from moving bowels were less troublesome, and delineation of intraabdominal and pelvic organs was better with the use of oral magnetic particles.
a unique indexing splint for use in combined le fort and nasal injuries to avoid tracheostomy. midface fractures with associated displaced and/or comminuted nasal fractures can require tracheostomy for a general anesthetic airway if these fractures are to be reduced simultaneously. we describe a unique indexing splint that allows oral intubation yet also allows simultaneous reduction of midface and nasal fractures under one anesthetic. furthermore, tracheostomy with its potential complications is avoided. the case report illustrates the technique, and alternative treatments for these injuries are discussed.
two distinct loci on the short arm of chromosome 16 are involved in myeloid leukemia. we report a case of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) m5 with the characteristic t(8;16)(p11;p13). the breakpoint in the short arm was regionally localized using nonradioactive in situ hybridization with a series of cosmids of chromosome 16. the results show that a difference exists between the breakpoint in chromosome 16(p13) in this t(8;16) and the breakpoint involved in the short arm in the characteristic inversion 16 (p13;q22)) that occurs in anll m4eo. two different loci appear to be involved in these chromosomal rearrangements.
molecular basis of the activation of the tumorigenic potential of gag-insulin receptor chimeras. a previous study showed that the human insulin receptor (ir) could be activated by insertion of a 3' portion of the cdna encoding the beta subunit into a retrovirus genome to form a gag-ir fusion protein. while capable of transforming cells in culture, this ir cdna-containing virus, called uir, was not able to induce tumors in animals. subsequently, we isolated a spontaneous sarcomagenic variant called uir19t from the parental uir. uir19t was molecularly cloned, sequenced, and found to harbor two mutations. a 44-amino acid deletion immediately upstream from the transmembrane domain of the gag-ir fusion protein removes all the extracellular sequence of the ir remaining in the original uir construct. in addition, a single nucleotide deletion at the 3' end results in truncation and replacement of the carboxyl-terminal 12 amino acids by 4 new amino acids. the specific kinase activity of uir19t is 4- to 5-fold higher than that of the parental uir. however, no new cellular substrates were detected in uir19t-transformed cells as compared to uir cells. viruses containing either the 5' or the 3' deletion mutation were constructed and assessed for their biological function. our data indicate that the 5' deletion alone is sufficient to confer tumorigenic ability. we conclude that sequence immediately upstream from the transmembrane domain imposes a negative effect on the transforming and tumorigenic potential of the gag-ir fusion protein.
interleukin-6 and its receptor are expressed by human megakaryocytes: in vitro effects on proliferation and endoreplication. interleukin-6 (il-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine that plays an important role in the megakaryocytic differentiation. recently, we have observed that il-6 is synthesized by several human cell lines with megakaryocytic features. in this study, we have investigated whether a similar phenomenon occurs during normal megakaryocytic differentiation. human megakaryocytes (mk) were obtained by culturing normal marrow in liquid culture with aplastic plasma (ap). first, an il-6 secretion in bone marrow culture enriched in mk as well as in purified mk populations was demonstrated by a biologic assay. second, il-6 mrna was detected in a purified population of mk by the polymerase chain reaction and dot blot analysis. il-6 mrna and protein were undetectable in platelets. third, in situ hybridization procedure demonstrated the presence of il-6 mrna in individual immature mk. fourth, il-6 protein was detected in mk at the unicellular level by an immunoalkaline phosphatase technique using a monoclonal antibody against il-6. furthermore, the presence of il-6 receptor (il-6-r) on mk was demonstrated by in situ hybridization using an il-6-r probe and in situ autoradiography after binding with [125i]-labeled recombinant il-6. the il-6 endogenously produced in liquid cultures containing normal human plasma or ap was subsequently neutralized. this resulted in a 50% decrease of the mk growth with a minor shift in the ploidy distribution toward lower values. in semisolid cultures the addition of anti-il-6 antibodies led to a 42% decrease in colony number in cultures stimulated by il-3 but not in other conditions of culture. these results suggest that normal human megakaryocytopoiesis might be regulated in part by an il-6 autocrine loop.
evaluating tooth eruption on sealant efficacy. for patients aged 5 to 9 and 11 to 14, 100 occlusal surfaces on newly erupting permanent molars were treated with a self-curing pit and fissure sealant. all teeth were categorized according to stage of eruption and sealant thickness of the coating applied. after 36 months, 75 surfaces were examined for a final evaluation; 52 surfaces (70%) did not need retreatment. of the 23 surfaces retreated as a result of sealant loss or marginal deterioration, 18 were retreated only once in the six recall evaluations. those molars treated originally with the operculum covering the distal marginal ridge of the occlusal surface had twice the probability for retreatment as teeth not treated until the entire marginal ridge was exposed. the thickness of the sealant coating did not affect the early signs of sealant failure.
a vascular malformation mimicking an intracanalicular acoustic neurilemoma. case report. a patient with an enhancing, completely intracanalicular mass on magnetic resonance imaging was operated on for a presumed acoustic neurilemoma, but was found at surgery to have an intracanalicular vascular malformation. this rare lesion should be distinguished from angiomatous change within an acoustic neurilemoma and in the past has been termed "vascular tumor," "hemangioma," or "fibro-angioma." the clinical distinctions between intracanalicular acoustic neurilemomas and intracanalicular vascular malformations and the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between the two are discussed.
systemic mast cell disease associated with primary mediastinal germ cell tumor. the first known case of systemic mast cell disease associated with a germ cell tumor is reported. six months after the complete remission of a primary mediastinal germ cell tumor treated by chemotherapy and resection, a young man had a series of episodes of hypotension and syncope and, a few months later, a gastric hemorrhage and coagulation disorder. the diagnosis of systemic mast cell disease was made in view of bone marrow and liver biopsies. a transient circulating heparin-like anticoagulant was noted. the occurrence in a short period of these two unusual conditions, given previous knowledge of hematologic disorders associated with germ cell tumors, suggests that the present association is not a coincidence. systemic mast cell disease should be considered among the hematologic disorders associated with a germ cell tumor.
pathogenetic role of helicobacter pylori in duodenal ulcer disease. multivariate analysis of factors affecting relapse. the pathogenesis of duodenal ulcer disease is multifactorial and the contribution of helicobacter pylori in relation to the other factors to the release of duodenal ulcer is unknown. to investigate this, we studied 147 patients with endoscopically proven healed ulcers. these patients were randomized to receive either placebo, misoprostol 200 micrograms or misoprostol 300 micrograms four times daily, and clinical, personal, physiological and endoscopic characteristics were obtained prospectively. endoscopy was performed at the active phase of the ulcer and when the ulcer healed. biopsies were taken from the antrum to assess histologically for: (1) the activity of gastritis as assessed by the degree of polymorph infiltration, (2) the degree of chronic inflammation by the degree of chronic inflammatory cells infiltration and degree of mucosal degeneration, and (3) bacteriologically for the presence of h. pylori. the severity of the gastritis and the bacterial density were graded independently by two pathologists. the patients were assessed at two-month intervals for 12 months or until the ulcer relapsed. the results demonstrated that the relapse rates of duodenal ulcer were similar in the three treatment groups. the relapse rate was higher in the group with higher density of the bacteria (p less than 0.05). the degree of gastritis did not affect the relapse rate of duodenal ulcer in either the placebo or misoprostol group or in all patients combined. stepwise logistic regression analysis identified that increased duodenal inflammation, male sex, early-onset disease, and h. pylori adversely affected relapse of the ulcer. we conclude that multiple factors affect the relapse of duodenal ulcer and h. pylori is one of them.
endometrioma of the liver. hepatic endometriosis is extremely rare. we describe a patient sent to us with epigastric pain as the only symptom and who was found to have associated endometrioma of the liver and left ovary. we suggest a gynecologic evaluation before surgery for hepatic cyst of unknown cause.
silent myocardial ischemia and infarction in diabetics with peripheral vascular disease: assessment by dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy. we investigated the incidence of silent myocardial ischemia and infarction as assessed by dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy in 30 diabetic patients with peripheral vascular disease and without clinical suspicion of coronary artery disease. seventeen patients (57%) had thallium abnormalities, with reversible thallium defects compatible with ischemia in 14 patients (47%) and evidence of prior, clinically silent myocardial infarction in 11 patients (37%). thallium abnormalities were most frequent in patients with concomitant hypertension and cigarette smoking (p = 0.001). these results suggest that unsuspected coronary artery disease is common in this particular group of patients with diabetes mellitus.
the fetus as a patient. surgical considerations. the diagnosis and treatment of human fetal defects has evolved rapidly over the past decade due to improved fetal imaging techniques and better understanding of fetal pathophysiology derived from animal models. the detection of a fetal anomaly may now lead to a change in the timing of delivery, a change in the mode of delivery, or prenatal treatment. because most therapeutic maneuvers involve some risk to the fetus and mother, there must be a reasonable expectation that the procedure is feasible, safe, and effective before it can be attempted in humans. this requires reliable information about the pathophysiology and natural history of the disease process, the efficacy of fetal surgical intervention in ameliorating the disease, and the feasibility and safety of the proposed intervention. this paper focuses on the rationale and initial clinical experience with fetal surgery for a variety of life-threatening fetal anatomic defects.
splenic artery aneurysm rupture [published erratum appears in am j emerg med 1991 mar;9(2):205] splenic artery aneurysms are rare and usually asymptomatic. however, rupture can produce severe abdominal pain and prove lethal. two cases of ruptured splenic artery aneurysm are presented. in one, cocaine injection occurred immediately prior to the onset of symptoms and may have precipitated the event.
ruptured mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with recurrence in the liver and colon 17 years later. a case report. a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary occurred in a 51-year-old woman and recurred as a large intrahepatic tumor mass as well as a small mass in the transverse colon 17 years after rupture, intraperitoneal spillage of tumor contents and subtotal surgical removal of the ovarian lesion and peritoneal implants. the patient was treated with a partial hepatectomy and a segmental transverse colectomy. the recurrent lesions, which contained histologically fully mature teratomatous elements only, were excised; the result was a complete cure. to our knowledge this is the first documented report on such a complication of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary.
intravenous fluid load and recovery. a double-blind comparison in gynaecological patients who had day-case laparoscopy. the effect of intra-operative fluid and dextrose administration upon recovery was tested in a randomised, double-blind trial. three groups of 25 patients, each undergoing laparoscopic examination as day cases, were studied. the two groups who received fluid (20 ml/kg compound sodium lactate solution) showed significant improvement (p less than 0.05) in the variables that reflected hydration. the fluid group who also received dextrose (1 g/kg) exhibited further significant improvement. intra-operative fluid and dextrose administration appears to confer some benefit upon recovery in patients who have minor surgery.
unconjugated bilirubin and cholesterol gallstone formation. cholesterol gallstones usually have small amounts of pigment at their centers and often have diffuse pigmentation or pigmented layers alternating with cholesterol layers and/or pigmented rims associated with calcium carbonate (eggshell calcification). the pigments are primarily monomeric calcium salts of unconjugated bilirubin anions and/or an insoluble, black, network polymer of tetrapyrroles. bilirubin presumably can precipitate only if bile is supersaturated with calcium bilirubinates. among various in vitro model systems, the aqueous solubilities and pk'a values for unconjugated bilirubin differ greatly. it is therefore not known whether normal bile is saturated with unconjugated bilirubin. however, all systems indicate that unconjugated bilirubin is solubilized by binding to bile salt monomers and oligomers, as well as micelles; marked metastable supersaturation of unconjugated bilirubin can occur in the presence of bile salt micelles, and both pk'a values of unconjugated bilirubin are greater than 6.0, probably because of internal hydrogen-bonding of the--cooh groups. lecithin decreases equilibrium solubilization of unconjugated bilirubin crystals but enhances metastable supersaturation of unconjugated bilirubin. calcium ions form insoluble salts with unconjugated bilirubin monoanions and dianions but soluble complexes with bilirubin conjugates. the solubility products of the calcium bilirubinate salts suggest that normal hepatic bile is not saturated with cab or ca(hb)2 but that gallbladder bile may be supersaturated with ca(hb)2.
effects of hypertension on pregnancy monitoring and results. the effect of severity of hypertension on fetal heart rate tracing changes and neonatal outcomes was evaluated on all patients with hypertension seen in 1980 and 1981 (666 cases, 10% of the pregnant population) in the chicago-lying in hospital. the patients were grouped according to severity of hypertension, and the fetal heart rate monitoring, drugs administered, mode of delivery, and neonatal outcome were analyzed. half of the patients (326) had mild hypertension and 13% (87) had severe hypertension; the remainder (253) had moderate hypertension. there were 49% primiparous and 51% multiparous women. the diagnosis of preeclampsia was made in 76% of cases, and chronic hypertension in 19%. only 12% of the total were premature by dates, but 47% of this group were among the severe group. oxytocin was given to 50%, whereas delivery was spontaneous in 56% of cases, and by cesarean section in 22%. this was higher among the severe hypertension group (37%), and the prematurity rate was 47%. nonstress testing was done in one third of cases and only nonreactivity was associated with neonatal death. neonatal depression (apgar score less than 6 at 5 minutes) was significantly associated with intrapartum fixed baseline and late decelerations; these were the best predictors of fetal outcome. the administration of magnesium sulfate, hydralazine, meperidine, or morphine did not predictably affect the fetal heart rate pattern. the perinatal mortality was 21% in the mild group and 36% and 138%, respectively, among moderate and severe cases of hypertension. close antepartum and intrapartum surveillance, including proper fetal monitoring, should help to reduce risks for mother and fetus through timely intervention.
visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception. we reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period. of these patients, 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye. eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better. of these, five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better, one had visual acuity of 20/25, one had visual acuity of 20/30, and one had visual acuity of 20/40. four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400. dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients.
surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine. despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers, severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma. we combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection. this report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma. each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites. nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone. there were no significant differences in maximum, minimum, or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not. however careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria. study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated. in addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients. there were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements. although the study is not a prospective randomized trial, a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone. the combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control, less blood loss, and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade.
cranial nerve palsy in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma. forty-five children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or non-hodgkin's lymphoma had cranial nerve palsy (cnp) as a complication of their disease. twenty-two of these children had cnp initially and 23, at relapse, with or without previous hematologic relapse. only one of the 23 patients with cnp at relapse was a long-term survivor. in contrast, 11 of the 22 children who had cnp initially survived in remission for 3+ months to 13+ years. two factors are associated with an improved outcome for patients with cnp at diagnosis: treatment after 1979 (p less than 0.004) and male gender (p less than 0.01). patients who received radiation therapy fared better than those for whom radiation was not given (disease-free survival at 2 years 53% versus 29%). the authors conclude that cnp signifies an aggressive or advanced disease requiring intensive systemic chemotherapy and that the role of irradiation should be examined for this group of patients.
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors: the value of early diagnosis. the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved. the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function. in general, conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent. thus, excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis. this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients. adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms, clinical signs, and related diagnosis. our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors. diagnostic guidelines are proposed.
esophageal obstruction after ingestion of a fiber-containing diet pill. foreign bodies of the esophagus in adults may be the result of a food bolus that becomes lodged proximal to a structural abnormality of the distal esophagus. a case of peptic stricture of the esophagus in a patient who presented with acute dysphagia after ingesting an over-the-counter diet pill composed of guar gum is discussed. it is recommended that anorectics composed of dietary fiber should not be used in patients with a history of esophageal stricture.
diagnostic evaluation of syncope syncope is a common medical problem and is caused by a wide variety of diseases ranging from physiologic derangements with few consequences to conditions that may be immediately life-threatening. because of the large differential diagnosis, many diagnostic tests are available for its evaluation. however, a cause of syncope is not established in 38% to 47% of patients despite these tests. in those patients in whom a diagnosis can be assigned, the history and physical examination identify a potential cause in 49% to 85%. furthermore, in 8% of additional patients, history and physical examination are suggestive of causes that need confirmation by specific tests. routine blood tests rarely yield diagnostically helpful information. in those patients in whom a potential cause for syncope is identified, arrhythmias are diagnosed by electrocardiogram in 2% to 11% of patients, cardiac monitoring in 3% to 27% (telemetry or holter), stress test in less than 1%, carotid massage in less than 1%, and electrophysiologic studies in less than 3%. diagnosis of arrhythmias as a cause of syncope is problematic because symptomatic correlation during electrocardiographic monitoring is rarely found (approximately 4%), and as a result, there is no uniform agreement on diagnostic criteria for abnormalities. similar problems exist in the use of electrophysiologic studies. upright tilt testing and psychiatric examination may be useful in evaluation of recurrent syncope of unknown cause in patients without organic heart disease. based on the results of recent studies, strategies for evaluation of patients with syncope are possible that utilize selective and goal-directed diagnostic testing.
quantification of magnetic resonance scans for hippocampal and parahippocampal atrophy in alzheimer's disease the brains of patients with alzheimer's disease (ad) invariably exhibit neuropathology in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex when examined postmortem. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) offers a noninvasive, high-resolution method for quantifying volumetric changes in the ad brain antemortem. eight patients diagnosed with probable ad and 7 age-matched controls had mri scans and were tested on a battery of cognitive and olfactory tests. the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex (parahippocampal gyrus) showed significant atrophy, with over 40% reduction in size. areas of the brain that are not highly involved in the degenerative state of ad, such as the striatum, did not show significant volumetric changes. hippocampal and parahippocampal gyrus volumes had the highest correlation with scores on the mini-mental state examination (r = 0.89), with lower correlations for a smell identification test (r = 0.65), odor match-to-sample test (r = 0.72), and a visual match-to-sample test (r = 0.26).
the human antibody response to streptococcal c5a peptidase. an elisa was developed to measure antibody, both igg and iga, against the streptococcal c5a peptidase (scp), in human sera and saliva. generally, sera and saliva from young, uninfected children lacked antibody to scp. in contrast, most sera and saliva specimens from healthy adults had measurable levels of anti-scp igg and scp-specific secretory iga (anti-scp siga). paired acute and convalescent sera from patients with streptococcal pharyngitis possessed significantly higher levels of anti-scp igg than did sera from healthy individuals. sera containing high concentrations of anti-scp immunoglobulin were capable of neutralizing scp activity. a survey of healthy adults and children also showed that the latter were significantly less likely to have anti-scp siga in their saliva. detection of this antibody in greater than 90% of the saliva specimens obtained from children who had recently experienced streptococcal pharyngitis demonstrated that children can produce a secretory response. this is thought to be the first report of a secretory iga response in humans to a somatic antigen of streptococcus pyogenes.
assessment and treatment of children's headaches from a developmental perspective. childhood headache is a common pediatric problem. clinical researchers have evaluated several behavioral treatment, such as biofeedback and relaxation training, that may be viable interventions. adding a developmental perspective to the evaluation and treatment of childhood headache is a likely way to increase the effectiveness of these strategies. this paper presents developmental issues related to the assessment and treatment of childhood headache. three major areas of development are examined and the impact of these areas on the treatment and assessment of headache are discussed. the three major areas are cognitive development, self-regulation and psychosocial development. provided are practical suggestions for the application of child development principles to assessment and intervention practices that may be more developmentally appropriate.
controlled trial of antimycobacterial therapy in crohn's disease. clofazimine versus placebo. in order to study the effect of clofazimine, a powerful antimycobacterial and antiinflammatory agent, 49 patients with active crohn's disease were randomized to either corticosteroids plus clofazimine 100 mg daily (n = 25) or to steroids and matching placebo (n = 24). a total of 28 patients (58%) went into disease remission (clofazimine 16, placebo 12; p = ns) with a fall in disease activity score from 10.5 +/- 4.4 to 3.3 +/- 3.5. patients were treated for a further eight months with clofazimine or placebo and 18 of 28 maintained their remission and completed the study (clofazimine 12, placebo 6; p = ns). side effects were minor and consisted of skin rash and increased pigmentation. clofazimine as a solitary antimycobacterial agent appears ineffective in inducing remission in crohn's disease but may have a role in either disease maintenance or combination chemotherapy.
aortic regurgitation after left ventricular myotomy and myectomy. five hundred twenty-five patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy underwent left ventricular myotomy and myectomy (lvmm) from 1960 to 1990. four hundred ninety-six had nonregurgitant trileaflet aortic valves before lvmm. in 19 (4%) of these patients, aortic regurgitation developed after lvmm. age of the 19 patients ranged from 10 to 58 years (mean age, 35 +/- 3 [+/- standard error of the mean]]. seven were male and 12, female. five patients underwent lvmm followed immediately by aortic valve replacement or valvuloplasty. aortic regurgitation developed in 14 patients at a later date. the average new york heart association functional class improved from 3.2 +/- 0.1 to 1.3 +/- 0.1 (p less than 0.05, student's t test) after operation. the average peak systolic left ventricular outflow tract gradient at rest and with provocation decreased from 65 +/- 8 to 14 +/- 5 mm hg (p less than 0.05) and 108 +/- 9 to 45 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.05), respectively, 6 to 8 months after operation. aortic regurgitation occurred in 7 of the 14 patients at 6 months or less after operation, and 3 required operative repair. in the other 7 patients, aortic regurgitation developed 3 years or more after lvmm, and 3 of them also required operative repair. all 12 patients in whom aortic regurgitation developed at operation or within 6 months postoperatively had either a very small aortic annulus (less than or equal to 21 mm, 5 patients), a low mitral-septal contact lesion (greater than or equal to 35 mm below the aortic annulus, 3 patients), or both (4 patients).
liver transplantation: the shadow side. for a relatively large number of patients with liver disease, a liver transplant does not always provide a successful solution. what does confrontation with this modern technology mean for those involved? we interviewed 30 relatives of patients who had died after they had been turned down for a transplant, or during or shortly after a liver transplant operation performed in the groningen liver transplant programme. quantitative data were obtained by means of a questionnaire. one-third of the respondents were of the opinion that the patient would have been better off if he/she had not entered the programme. over half found the loss more difficult to accept because the patient had been involved in the programme. nevertheless, many had the feeling of satisfaction that everything possible had been done. however fruitful transplantation technology may be for a specific group of patients, it also involves undesirable side-effects which should be included in the careful judgement of this technology.
the appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. a case report and review of the literature. the piriformis syndrome (ps) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis. computed tomography (ct) and magnetic resonance (mr) imaging revealed ps in a 27-year-old woman. this case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by ct and mr imaging.
regression of coronary atherosclerosis during treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia with combined drug regimens. we conducted a randomized, controlled trial in 72 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia to test whether reducing plasma low-density lipoprotein levels by diet and combined drug regimens can induce regression of coronary lesions. four hundred fifty-seven lesions were measured before and after a 26-month interval by computer-based quantitative angiography. the primary outcome variable was within-patient mean change in percent area stenosis. mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased from 7.32 +/- 1.5 to 4.45 +/- 1.6 mmol/l. the mean change in percent area stenosis among controls was +0.80, indicating progression, while the mean change for the treatment group was -1.53, indicating regression (p = .039 by two-tailed t test for the difference between groups). regression among women, analyzed separately, was also significant. the change in percent area stenosis was correlated with low-density lipoprotein levels on trial. we conclude that reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels can induce regression of atherosclerotic lesions of the coronary arteries in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. the anticipation of benefit from treatment applies to women and men alike.
inflammatory pseudosarcoma (pseudotumor) of the bladder. inflammatory pseudosarcoma of the bladder is a rare benign entity that cannot be differentiated from malignant tumor at radiologic examination alone. only pathologic examination can enable a definitive diagnosis. the authors report two cases of these benign tumors in patients with no history of bladder disease or trauma; the tumors were large, demonstrated invasion into local tissues, and recurred in one case after incomplete transurethral resection.
the gonadotropin-releasing hormone associated peptide reduces calcium entry in prolactin-secreting cells. the precursor molecule to the gnrh contains a peptide named gnrh-associated peptide (gap) with prl-inhibiting properties. in this work, we have studied the electrophysiological properties and responses to gap of three different types of prl-secreting cells: 1) the rat tumor cell line gh3, 2) normal rat pituitary cells in primary culture, and 3) human prl-secreting adenoma cells. using different but complementary techniques we show that gap reduces intracellular ca++ levels, [ca++]i, and inhibits ca++ transients in these cells. this reduction of [ca++]i results from coordinate actions of gap on k+ and ca++ conductances and may explain the inhibitory effect of gap on hormonal secretion by prl-secreting cells.
nuclear morphometry as a prognostic indicator for genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma: a preliminary investigation. rhabdomyosarcoma of the urogenital tract is a malignant mesenchymal tumor seen primarily in childhood. multimodal therapy, encompassing surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, has dramatically improved the survival of patients with this disease. however, the quest for markers of tumor aggression is important to decrease the morbidity of treatment given to patients with good prognosis tumors, while at the same time intensifying treatment of tumors with poor prognosis. using archival tumor specimens from 13 patients with genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma, a multivariate analysis of multiple nuclear shape descriptors was done with the hopkins morphometry system. three nuclear shape descriptors clearly separated patients with no evidence of disease recurrence or progression from those with recurrent disease, progressive disease or death of disease. these nuclear shape descriptors were standard error of the chain code standard deviation analysis (p = 0.010), range of the feret ellipticity distribution (p = 0.016) and standard error of the chain code range analysis (p = 0.037). with multivariate analysis these shape descriptors taken together separated patients with good and poor prognoses to a level of significance of p = 0.007. thus, nuclear morphometric analysis may prove to be useful as an individual prognostic indicator in childhood genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma and warrants further analysis in a much larger, blinded, controlled study.
primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in a 8-year-old child. a case of primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in an 8-year-old, previously healthy child is described. the child was found to have hypogammaglobulinemia, and the epstein-barr virus genome was identified in cultured tumor cells despite blood serology being negative for the virus. the patient was treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and dexamethasone, plus intrathecal methotrexate, and initially improved. before the initiation of craniospinal radiation, the patient developed progressive disease, deteriorated, and died 9 months after the onset of symptoms.
metoprolol for aggressive behavior in persons with mental retardation. persons with mental retardation sometimes exhibit behaviors that are difficult to control. use of neuroleptic medications may be limited by side effects or ineffectiveness. beta blockers such as propranolol and metoprolol have been shown to decrease aggressive and impulsive behaviors in some patients with mental retardation.
renovascular beta adrenergic hypersensitivity and hyperinsulinemia in rats with dietary-induced obesity. to determine whether obesity alters responsiveness to vasoactive drugs, we compared the cardiovascular effects of angiotensin, phenylephrine and isoproterenol in unanesthetized age-matched control and obese oscai rats. obesity was induced by programming pups to overeat immediately after birth and then feeding them a high-fat diet thereafter. elevations in tail-cuff systolic and mean pressures from 7 through 11 months of age and in plasma insulin at 8 months of age indicated that obese rats had developed borderline hypertension and hyperinsulinemia. cardiovascular responsiveness was then tested by recording blood pressure, heart rate and renal blood flow from chronically implanted arterial catheters and flow probes while graded doses of the three test drugs were infused intravenously. heart rate and renal blood flow decreased during pressor responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine and were oppositely increased during depressor responses to isoproterenol. magnitude of all cardiovascular receptors was dose-dependent. obese rats had weaker reflex bradycardic responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine than control rats. more importantly, they also had larger renal vasoconstrictor responses to 2 ng/100 g of angiotensin or vasodilator responses to 15 ng/100 of isoproterenol. whether or not the changes in cardiovascular responsiveness were related to hyperinsulinemia was undetermined. our results suggest that, in addition to being overweight, slightly hypertensive and hyperinsulinemic, obese oscai rats have impaired baroreflexes and a renal vascular bed more responsive to beta adrenergic vasodilation.
the effect of sleep on the dyskinetic movements of parkinson's disease, gilles de la tourette syndrome, huntington's disease, and torsion dystonia. the effect of sleep on the involuntary movements or dyskinesias in parkinson's disease, huntington's disease, primary and secondary torsion dystonia, and gilles de la tourette syndrome was studied in a total of 52 patients and 10 normal subjects using video electroencephalographic telemetry. movements typical of the wake pattern were seen occasionally during unequivocal sleep in all but two completed studies, and in each condition reappeared under similar circumstances. the movements were most likely to occur after awakenings or lightenings of sleep, or in stage one sleep. the movements were very rare during the deeper phases of sleep. those movements that occurred during sleep without awakenings were usually preceded by arousal phenomena and, rarely, by sleep spindles or slow waves. the control group showed normal "semipurposeful" movements under the same conditions during sleep. the rare appearance of the different dyskinesias and normal movements under similar circumstances during sleep could be a result of common effects on the generator systems or changes in the excitability of the final common motor pathway.
endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma. endoscopic ultrasonography (eus) was performed preoperatively in 39 patients with gallbladder carcinoma. diagnosis of the anatomical extent of gallbladder carcinoma was compared with histologic analysis, and staging accuracy was evaluated according to the tnm classification. carcinoma considered to be at an early stage with no lymph node metastasis was correctly diagnosed in 87.5%. differential diagnosis between early and advanced staged tumors was possible in 79.5%. overall accuracy for depth of tumor invasion (t) was 76.9%. limitations were due to many stones in the gallbladder and microinfiltration of carcinoma. assessment of regional lymph node metastasis (n) was at a sensitivity of 81.8% and specificity of 92.9%, for an overall accuracy of 89.7%. we believe endoscopic ultrasonography is useful in the clinical staging of gallbladder carcinoma.
selective nonoperative management of patients referred with abnormal mammograms. screening mammography provides a means of detecting clinically occult breast carcinoma, but the question of whether all abnormal mammograms require biopsy remains unanswered. we retrospectively reviewed records of 214 women referred over an 8-year period for abnormal mammograms. they were selectively assigned to biopsy or mammographic follow-up based on specific mammographic criteria. of 114 women initially observed mammographically, 2 were later found by biopsy to have carcinoma. initial assignment to mammographic observation delayed the recommendation for biopsy 3 and 12 months, respectively, in these patients, but no effect on outcome was documented. because they have benign lesions by clinical and mammographic criteria, 102 women (53%) have been spared biopsy; they continue to be monitored closely. we believe these data support the use of a selective approach to biopsy based on specific mammographic criteria.
accuracy of prospective two-dimensional/doppler echocardiography in the assessment of reparative surgery. between january 1987 and january 1989, all 129 patients (aged 11 days to 25 years, median 39 months) undergoing both an echocardiographic examination and cardiac catheterization after reparative surgery were prospectively included in a study to assess the accuracy of combined two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging. the patient diagnoses were transposition of the great arteries (n = 20), tetralogy of fallot (n = 38), coarctation of the aorta (n = 24), complete atrioventricular (av) canal (n = 15), atrial septal defect (n = 8), ventricular septal defects (n = 3), pulmonary stenosis (n = 4), aortic stenosis (n = 8) and subaortic stenosis (n = 9). in arterial tract stenosis, there was high correlation between doppler estimates and catheterization-derived measurements of residual right ventricular outflow tract obstruction in patients after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries (r = 0.95) as well as in patients after corrective repair of tetralogy of fallot (r = 0.84). in semilunar/av valve regurgitation, graded as none, mild, moderate or severe, echocardiographic estimates correlated exactly with angiographic grading in 84% and differed by one angiographic grade in the other 16%. in residual left to right shunting, no hemodynamically significant shunt was missed by echocardiography. for residual shunts at the ventricular level (n = 32), addition of doppler color flow imaging improved the sensitivity (from 63% to 94%) and the negative predictive value (from 88% to 98%). in elevated right ventricular pressure, doppler-derived right ventricular-right atrial pressure estimates in 24 patients correlated well with catheterization measurements (r = 0.93). combined two-dimensional and doppler color flow echocardiography was highly accurate in the prospective evaluation of these four types of postoperative residual.
combined repair of transposed great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection. we report an unusual association of transposition of the great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection in the right atrium that was successfully repaired by a modified mustard procedure.
postoperative radiation therapy for rectal cancer. an interim analysis of a prospective, randomized multicenter trial in the netherlands. the authors assessed the potential benefit of postoperative radiation therapy for rectal cancer in a two-arm, prospective multicenter trial. one hundred seventy-two patients who had undergone surgical resection for rectal adenocarcinoma were randomly assigned to either treatment consisting of external irradiation to a dose of 5000 cgy in 5 weeks or a control group (no adjuvant therapy). it was assumed that the number of cells remaining after radical surgery would be low and that the dose of 5000 cgy would be adequate in eradicating the majority of those cells. the number of local recurrences was lower in the treated group of patients, but the difference was not statistically significant. it was assumed that if a significant reduction in the number of local recurrences could be obtained, improved (disease-free) survival would result. no influence on disease-free or overall survival could be detected. these results were in agreement with those reported in europe and the us, and it was concluded that postoperative radiation therapy alone cannot be justified as a routine procedure in the primary management of resectable rectal cancer.
surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine. despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers, severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma. we combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection. this report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma. each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites. nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone. there were no significant differences in maximum, minimum, or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not. however careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria. study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated. in addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients. there were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements. although the study is not a prospective randomized trial, a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone. the combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control, less blood loss, and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade.
effect of atopy on the natural history of symptoms, peak expiratory flow, and bronchial responsiveness in 7- and 8-year-old children with cough and wheeze. a 12-month longitudinal study. recurrent lower respiratory tract symptoms are common and disabling in childhood, but little is known of their natural history and relationship to asthma. we report a 12-month longitudinal study designed to determine the influence of atopy on respiratory symptoms and bronchial responsiveness in 7- and 8-yr-old children. a postal questionnaire inquiring into the presence of respiratory symptoms was sent to 3,698 children aged 7 and 8 yr. those reporting either current wheeze (14.8%) or current cough in the absence of wheeze (12.8%) were randomized, and a sample was invited to attend for skin testing. the following groups of symptomatic children entered the longitudinal study: 48 atopic children with cough, 48 atopic children with wheeze, 48 nonatopic children with cough, and 48 nonatopic children with wheeze. all children recorded twice daily the best of three peak expiratory flow (pef) measurements and completed a 10-point symptom score card, each day for 1 yr. they also recorded all treatment taken and made a note of relevant life events. each child was seen monthly for general assessment and for measurement of methacholine bronchial responsiveness. despite the arduous nature of the study 183 of the 192 children (95.3%) successfully completed the 12 months of observation. symptom groups were compared with regard to fev1, bronchial responsiveness, symptom chronicity and severity, and diurnal and day-to-day variation in pef. atopy was associated with a lower fev1, increased prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness, greater within-day and between-day variation in pef, and greater severity of respiratory symptoms compared with the absence of atopy.
human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene regulation by virus and lipopolysaccharide. we have identified a region of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) gene promoter that is necessary for maximal constitutive, virus-induced, and lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced transcription. this region contains three sites that match an nf-kappa b binding-site consensus sequence. we show that these three sites specifically bind nf-kappa b in vitro, yet each of these sites can be deleted from the tnf-alpha promoter with little effect on the induction of the gene by virus or lps. moreover, when multimers of these three sites are placed upstream from a truncated tnf-alpha promoter, or a heterologous promoter, an increase in the basal level of transcription is observed that is influenced by sequence context and cell type. however, these multimers are not sufficient for virus or lps induction of either promoter. thus, unlike other virus- and lps-inducible promoters that contain nf-kappa b binding sites, these sites from the tnf-alpha promoter are neither required nor sufficient for virus or lps induction. comparison of the sequence requirements of virus induction of the human tnf-alpha gene in mouse l929 and p388d1 cells reveals significant differences, indicating that the sequence requirements for virus induction of the gene are cell type-specific. however, the sequences required for virus and lps induction of the gene in a single cell type, p388d1, overlap.
cardiac calcific deposits in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism: preliminary results of a prospective echocardiographic study. to explain the incidence and significance of mitral and aortic valve calcification and calcific deposits in the myocardium, a prospective echocardiographic study was performed with 21 consecutive patients who had primary hyperparathyroidism (php) and with 21 age- and sex-matched control subjects with normocalcemia. calcific deposits in the myocardium were seen in 13 patients (62%) with php, mainly in the interventicular septum, and in one control subject. aortic valve calcification was observed in 12 patients (57%) with php and in one control subject. calcification of the mitral valve was found in seven patients with php (33%) and three controls (14%). calcification led to mild or moderate stenosis of the aortic valve in three patients with php and of the mitral valve in two patients with php. no stenosis was found in the subjects in the control group. both calcification of the aortic and mitral valves and calcific deposits in the myocardium are common in patients with php and can be detected noninvasively by echocardiography. because of the potential relationship of elevated calcium, calcification, and valvular heart disease, clinical evaluation of php should include echocardiographic studies before surgery is performed and during follow-up examination.
the madigan prostatectomy. a total of 59 patients with bladder outflow obstruction underwent the madigan prostatectomy. the method, results and complications are described. for select patients with large benign adenomas without a median lobe or hematuria we believe the technique to be the operation of choice, particularly in younger patients. advantages include absence of postoperative hematuria and clot retention, a decreased requirement for blood transfusions, a 16f postoperative catheter with early removal, avoidance of post-catheter stricture, a low rate of postoperative urinary infection, a short comfortable period of hospitalization and, in the long term (median followup 6 years), preservation of potency and antegrade ejaculation.
temporal movement control in patients with parkinson's disease. patients with parkinson's disease (pd) have been reported to be unable to modify their movement velocity to adapt to changing environmental demands. for example, when movement amplitude is varied, pd patients usually exhibit a nearly constant peak velocity, whereas elderly subjects show an increase of their peak velocity with increased amplitude. the experiment examined the ability of pd patients to vary the duration of their movement (four different percentages of their maximum) under conditions where temporal, but not spatial, control was emphasised. pd patients had longer movement times than control subjects, but were able to vary the duration of their movement with comparable temporal accuracy to that of elderly subjects. for both groups, the agonist emg activity increased with decreased movement duration. for the pd patients, the number of agonist bursts increased with increased movement duration.
cimetidine 800 mg twice daily for healing erosions and ulcers in gastroesophageal reflux disease. although h2-receptor antagonists have been the mainstay of therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), none of these agents has been approved by the fda as effective in healing lesions. since proton pump inhibitors may be associated with long-term disadvantages, a healing regimen with cimetidine would be useful clinically. this multicenter, randomized, double-blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cimetidine 800 mg b.i.d. in healing lesions and in providing symptomatic relief in patients with ulcerative or erosive esophagitis. patients with greater than or equal to 8 heartburn episodes during a 1-week screening period, reflux confirmed by esophageal ph monitoring, and esophageal ulcers or erosions confirmed by endoscopy were randomized to treatment with placebo or cimetidine for 12 weeks. cimetidine provided significantly greater (p less than 0.01) improvement (74% vs. 51%) and complete healing (67% vs. 36%) of esophageal lesions than did placebo. in these patients with erosive or ulcerative esophagitis, the median time to achieve 24 h without heartburn was 13 days with cimetidine and 30 days with placebo (p = 0.01). the mean heartburn severity score in the cimetidine group decreased rapidly during the first week and was consistently lower than in the placebo group. cimetidine, 800 mg twice daily, is effective in promoting healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions and in providing heartburn relief in patients with symptomatic erosive/ulcerative gerd.
kawasaki disease: echocardiographic features in 91 cases presenting in the united kingdom. ninety-one patients with kawasaki disease were examined by cross sectional echocardiography between 1980 and 1988. in the 75 patients evaluated during the acute phase of the illness (the first month), the first echocardiographic examination was carried out at a mean time of 16 days (range 5-30) and coronary arterial lesions were seen in 21 (28%). two patients with medium sized aneurysms had myocardial infarctions, and one died. coronary arterial lesions persisted in 17 (23%) patients, most often in younger children. the remaining 16 patients were examined from one month to four years after their acute illnesses, and this group did not have coronary arterial abnormalities. seven patients with coronary artery lesions have reached school age and require regular echocardiographic examination and exercise electrocardiography. selective coronary arteriography may be indicated in some patients to identify coronary artery stenosis, which the japanese experience has shown may progress for several years after the acute illness.
brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. we compared brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic performance in 20 neurologically asymptomatic patients suffering from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (mean age 41 [range 18-49] years) and 20 age-matched controls (mean age 38 [range 28-49] years). patients exhibited a significantly higher rate of cerebral infarcts (20% versus 0%, p less than 0.05) and cortical (50% versus 5%, p less than 0.01) and ventricular (55% versus 15%, p less than 0.02) atrophy than controls. accordingly, semiquantitative volumetric measurements yielded a significantly increased ventricular-to-intracranial cavity ratio in the patients (6.2 +/- 2.9% versus 4.1 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.01). this ratio and the cortical atrophy ratings correlated positively with disease duration (r = 0.63 and 0.54, p less than 0.05). cognitive test performance was significantly worse in patients than in controls and was most impaired in those patients with morphologic cerebral abnormalities.
respiratory muscle strength and control of ventilation in patients with neuromuscular disease. to assess the relationship between respiratory mechanics and muscle strength and control of ventilation in patients with neuromuscular disease (nmd), we compared pimax and pemax at rv, frc and tlc, total respiratory elastance (ers) with vt, ti, tt, ve, vt/ti, ti/tt, p.01, and p.01/(vt/ti) effective impedance in 21 patients with nmd and 21 healthy control (c) subjects, in seated position breathing room air. ers in nmd patients was 79 percent higher than in the c subjects. while ti, tt, and vt in nmd were approximately half the corresponding c values, p.01 was 66 percent greater than in the c subjects (both p less than 0.001). nmd pimax and pemax ranged from 37 to 52 percent of corresponding c values, respectively. despite significant respiratory muscle weakness, only 7 of 16 patients demonstrated a paco2 greater than 45 mm hg. ventilatory output in nmd was modulated by respiratory mechanics as indicated by the increased p.01. in spite of muscle weakness, central drive in patients with nmd is not decreased, and in fact, is often increased. ve is not an accurate measure of central drive because of abnormal intrinsic respiratory mechanics and the effects of conscious responses or reflexes.
results of conservative surgery and radiation therapy for breast cancer. for stage i or ii breast cancer, conservative surgery and radiation therapy are as effective as modified radical or radical mastectomy. in most cases, cosmetic considerations and the availability of therapy are the primary concerns. the extent of a surgical resection less than a mastectomy has not been a subject of a randomized trial and is controversial. it appears that removal of a quadrant of the breast for small lesions is safe but excessive. using histologic findings in the biopsy as a guide, it may be possible to limit the breast resection to gross tumor removal for most patients while using wider resections for patients with an extensive intraductal component or for invasive lobular carcinoma. it also appears that excluding patients from breast conservation on the basis of positive margins on the first attempt at tumor excision may be unnecessarily restrictive. although patients with an extensive intraductal component or invasive lobular carcinoma should have negative margins, it appears that a patient with predominantly invasive ductal carcinoma can be treated without re-excision if all gross tumor has been resected and there is no reason to suspect extensive microscopic disease. patients with indeterminate margins should have a re-excision. axillary dissection provides prognostic information and prevents progression of the disease within the axilla. axillary dissections limited to level i will accurately identify a substantial number of patients who have pathologically positive but clinically negative nodes. when combined with radiation therapy to the axilla, a level i dissection results in a limited number of patients with progressive axillary disease. patients with pathologically positive axillas and patients at particularly high risk for systemic disease because of the extent of axillary node involvement can be identified by dissections of levels i and ii. radiation therapy can be avoided safely in patients who have pathologically negative axillas by level i and ii dissection. there appears to be no advantage to routine dissection of level iii lymph nodes. lymphedema of the arm and breast increases with more extensive dissections and with radiation therapy.
landau-kleffner syndrome: a pharmacologic study of five cases. five children with landau-kleffner syndrome (epilepsy, acquired aphasia, and continuous spike-wave discharges during sleep), were treated with antiepileptic drugs (aeds), sleep-modifying drugs, and corticosteroids. the pharmacologic profiles differed from those observed in focal epilepsies, resembling instead those of certain generalized epilepsies, such as west or lennox-gastaut syndromes. phenobarbital (pb), carbamazepine (cbz), and phenytoin (pht) were ineffective or worsened the eeg and neuropsychological symptoms, whereas valproate (vpa), ethosuximide (esm), and benzodiazepines were partially or transiently efficacious. dextroamphetamine produced a dramatic but transient improvement in waking and sleep eeg in one of two children; aphasia did not change. corticosteroid treatment resulted in improved speech, suppression of seizures, and normalization of the eeg in three of three children. our own experience and data from the literature suggest that corticosteroids should be given in high doses as soon as the diagnosis is firmly established and should be continued in maintenance dose for several months or years to avoid escape. early diagnosis, before mutism or global deterioration develops, appears to be essential for effective therapy with minimal neuropsychological sequelae.
foci of increased t2 signal intensity in mr images of healthy elderly subjects. a follow-up study. an 18-month follow-up study was conducted on 26 healthy elderly subjects with and without foci of increased t2 signal intensity on mr imaging. the subjects did not differ with respect to health status or cognitive performance as measured by the cognitive subscale of the cambridge mental disorders of the elderly examination and the mini mental state examination at follow-up. there was a significant decline in performance on the digit symbol substitution test in subjects who had evidence of t2 foci compared to the performance of subjects without t2 foci. this may indicate that the presence of t2 foci is correlated with subtle difficulties in learning and memory.
prevalence of spontaneous hepatofugal portal flow in liver cirrhosis. clinical and endoscopic correlation in 228 patients. the prevalence of spontaneous reversal of flow in the portal venous system was non invasively evaluated by doppler ultrasound in 228 patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. reversed flow was detected in the portal vein in 7 patients (3.1%), in the splenic vein in 7 patients (3.1%), and in the superior mesenteric vein in 5 patients (2.1%), with an overall prevalence of 8.3% (19/228). this prevalence did not differ in relation to the etiology of liver cirrhosis, whereas hepatofugal flow was found in more patients classified as child's c (15.4%) and b (12.5%) than those classified as child's a (2.7%) (p less than 0.02) and was associated with a higher frequency of hepatic encephalopathy (21% vs. 7.2%; p less than 0.05). endoscopic evaluation of esophageal varices did not reveal any correlation between the presence and size of varices and hepatofugal flow, whereas red signs were detected more frequently in patients with this hemodynamic pattern (42.1% vs. 24.4%; ns). the rate of previous variceal bleeding was not significantly different in patients with and without hepatofugal flow (30.8% vs. 24.4%; ns). conversely, the prospective evaluation of 15 patients with hepatofugal flow and 29 matched patients with hepatopetal flow, derived from the group of 228 patients, followed up for a period of 12-18 months, showed that variceal bleeding occurred in 9 of 29 patients with hepatopetal flow and in none of the 15 patients with hepatofugal flow (p less than 0.02). however, no statistical difference was found in the survival rates. this study indicates that the actual prevalence of reversed flow in the portal, splenic, and superior mesenteric veins in a nonselected cirrhotic population is 8.3%. from a clinical point of view, the data suggest that this finding might be considered an important prognostic factor because, while occurring in cirrhotic patients with more severe functional impairment, it might play a protective role against the risk of bleeding.
hormone replacement therapy and survival after surgery for ovarian cancer objective--to evaluate whether hormone replacement therapy affects survival in women who have undergone bilateral salphingo-oophorectomy because of epithelial ovarian cancer. design--retrospective analysis by review of patients' notes and questionnaires completed by general practitioners to compare the overall survival and disease free survival in patients with ovarian cancer who did or did not receive hormone replacement therapy after diagnosis. data were analysed by cox regression, with hormone replacement therapy as a time dependent covariate because patients who received hormone replacement did so at different times after diagnosis. setting--gynaecological oncology unit of royal marsden hospital. patients--373 patients aged 50 years or younger who attended the hospital from 1972 to 1988. all of the women had undergone bilateral salpingoophorectomy for epithelial ovarian cancer. in all, 78 had received hormone replacement therapy, starting at a median of four months after diagnosis. intervention--a questionnaire was sent to the general practitioners of all patients who were not recorded as having received hormone replacement therapy. main outcome measures--overall survival and disease free survival. results--there was no significant difference in survival between women receiving hormone replacement therapy and those not receiving it after accounting for the effects of other known prognostic factors (stage of cancer, differentiation of tumour, histological results, and time to relapse). the relative risk of dying in those who received hormone replacement therapy was 0.73 (95% confidence interval 0.44 to 1.20). in addition, there was no significant difference in disease free survival (relative risk in those receiving hormone replacement therapy was 0.90; 95% confidence interval 0.52 to 1.54). conclusions--this study shows that hormone replacement therapy is unlikely to have a detrimental effect on the prognosis of patients with ovarian cancer, but this would be shown conclusively only by a randomised controlled trial.
prevention of complications in surgical management of back pain and sciatica. accurate diagnosis of lumbar disc disease requires a thorough examination. appropriate neurodiagnostic studies are required to confirm the suspected diagnosis. other diagnoses should be considered prior to surgery, especially when there is a lack of correlation between the history, physical examination, or radiologic investigation. proper surgical techniques should also help in preventing complications and are further discussed in this article.
cancer chemotherapy after solid organ transplantation. to assess how well chemotherapy is tolerated after solid organ transplantation, we reviewed our experience at the children's hospital of pittsburgh with five patients aged 1 to 12 years. four patients had a liver transplant, indications for which were hepatoblastoma in two patients, hepatic failure secondary to wilms' tumor chemoradiotherapy in one patient, and familial intrahepatic cholestasis in one patient. a fifth patient received a cardiac transplant for unresectable angiosarcoma of the right atrium. after transplant, chemotherapy was given for the treatment of the primary malignancy in four of the patients. the patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis received chemotherapy for secondary lymphoproliferative disease that had not responded to the cessation of immunosuppression. all patients other than this patient were on immunosuppression with prednisone (0.5 to 2 mg/kg daily) and cyclosporine (to maintain serum levels at 800 to 1000 ng/ml radioimmunoassay) throughout the duration of chemotherapy. courses of chemotherapy included one or more of the following agents: adriamycin (adr, 20 mg/m2 daily, three patients), cyclophosphamide (ctx, 1 gm/m2, one patient), cisplatin (cddp, 90 mg/m2, one patient), vincristine (vcr, greater than 0.75 to 1.5 mg/m2, three patients), actinomycin d (act-d, 7.5 micrograms/kg, one patient), ifosfamide (i, 1800 mg/m2, one patient) and etoposide (vp-16, 100 mg/m2, one patient). all patients received greater than or equal to 3 courses (range, 3 to 9; mean, 5) of chemotherapy every 3 to 4 weeks. dose reductions were made because of neutropenia in three patients but none were greater than 50%. severe rejection was seen in one patient who had, however, manifested evidence of rejection prior to his first postoperative course of chemotherapy. no nephro or cardiac toxicity was seen. this preliminary experience suggests that chemotherapy is well tolerated after solid organ transplantation.
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without hypertrophy: two families with myocardial disarray in the absence of increased myocardial mass two families are described in which individuals showed widespread myocardial disarray at histological examination, in the absence of macroscopic cardiac hypertrophy. in one family the clinical presentation was that of sudden unexpected cardiac death in four family members; members of the other family presented with electrocardiographic repolarisation changes and abnormalities of left ventricular diastolic function. the finding of myocardial disarray, the characteristic histological abnormality of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, in the absence of increased cardiac mass suggests a wider range of abnormality in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy than is currently recognised.
intravascular laser therapy of acute myocardial infarction. the efficacy of a new method of treatment, endovascular blood irradiation with he-ne laser, developed by the authors, was studied in 295 patients with primary acute transmural myocardial infarction (mi). twenty-four-hour holter monitoring findings before and after laser irradiation suggested the possibility of preventing sudden death in the acute period of mi owing to the high anti-arrhythmic efficacy of the method with respect to high-grade ventricular arrhythmias. precodial ecg mapping and serial determination of blood enzyme activities (cpk and mb-cpk) showed that irradiation performed within the first hours of mi development contributed to effective limitation of the infarction area and restricted the spread of the area of myocardial ischemic damage.
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of high-risk angulated stenoses. percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) of angulated stenoses has been found in studies using older ptca equipment to be associated with a heightened risk of procedure-related major ischemic events. to better understand the factors associated with procedural risk and to identify means of lessening that risk, 100 patients, treated sequentially from 1986 to 1989, who underwent ptca of stenoses located at greater than or equal to 45 degrees bends, were characterized for 27 clinical, anatomic and procedural variables. clinical outcome of angioplasty was related to these variables. in addition, results from 344 consecutive contemporary patients undergoing ptca of nonangulated lesions were compared to those of the study group. procedural success was achieved in only 70% of patients with angulated stenoses, compared with 306 of 344 (89%) nonangulated stenoses, and major ischemic complications (death, bypass surgery or myocardial infarction) occurred in 13% of patients with angulated stenoses compared with 12 of 344 (3.5%) with nonangulated stenoses (both p less than 0.001). the presence of associated thrombus, stenosis length greater than 10 mm or age greater than or equal to 65 years led to an even higher risk of major complications (9 of 44 = 20.5%), whereas highly experienced angioplasty operators and the use of polyethylene terephthalate balloons appeared to decrease risk and increase the likelihood of success. ptca of such stenoses should be undertaken only cautiously and in carefully selected patients.
molecular localization of the t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation of ewing sarcoma by chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization. chromosome translocations are associated with a variety of human leukemias, lymphomas, and solid tumors. to localize molecular markers flanking the t(11;22) (q24;q12) breakpoint that occurs in virtually all cases of ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma, high-resolution chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization was carried out using a panel of cosmid clones localized and ordered on chromosome 11q. the location of the ewing sarcoma translocation breakpoint was determined relative to the nearest two cosmid markers on 11q, clones 23.2 and 5.8, through the analysis of metaphase chromosome hybridization. by in situ hybridization to interphase nuclei, the approximate physical separation of these two markers was determined. in both ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma, cosmid clone 5.8 is translocated from chromosome 11q24 to the derivative chromosome 22 and a portion of chromosome 22q12 carrying the leukemia inhibitory factor gene is translocated to the derivative chromosome 11. the physical distance between the flanking cosmid markers on chromosome 11 was determined to be in the range of 1000 kilobases, and genomic analysis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed no abnormalities over a region of 650 kilobases in the vicinity of the leukemia inhibitory factor gene on chromosome 22. this approach localizes the ewing sarcoma breakpoint to a small region on chromosome 11q24 and provides a rapid and precise technique for the molecular characterization of chromosomal aberrations.
electrophysiology of motor pathways for sphincter control in multiple sclerosis. the central and peripheral motor pathways serving striated sphincter muscle function were studied using cortical and lumbar transcutaneous electrical stimulation, pudendal nerve stimulation and sphincter electromyography in 23 patients with multiple sclerosis (ms), and sphincter disturbance, including incontinence of urine or faeces, urinary voiding dysfunction, or constipation. the central motor conduction time was significantly increased in the ms group compared to controls (p less than 0.05). damage to both the upper and lower motor neuron pathways can contribute to sphincter disturbance in ms. the latter may be due to coexisting pathology or to involvement of the conus medullaris by ms.
can internal mammary chain treatment decrease the risk of death for patients with medial breast cancers and positive axillary lymph nodes? the effect of internal mammary chain treatment on each type of malignant death-related event was analyzed in 1195 patients with operable breast cancer and histologically involved axillary lymph nodes. a group of 135 patients who had no internal mammary chain treatment was compared with a control group of 1060 patients who were treated by surgery and/or postoperative radiation therapy. in a multivariate analysis taking into account age, clinical size of the tumor, histoprognostic grading, and the number of positive axillary lymph nodes, quantitative interaction tests were used to determine whether the effects of internal mammary chain treatment on each type of malignant event were significantly different for patients with a lateral tumor compared with those with a medial tumor. the authors found that the effects of this treatment on the risks of distant metastases and of secondary breast cancer were not the same for the patients with a medial tumor as for those with a lateral tumor. for the untreated patients with a medial tumor, the risks of distant metastases and second breast cancer were, respectively, 1.6 (p = 0.02) and 2.9 (p = 0.02), compared with the treated patients. conversely, for women with lateral tumor, no difference between the two treatment groups was observed. thus, internal mammary chain treatment may improve long-term survival rate in patients with a medial tumor and positive axillary lymph nodes essentially by decreasing the risk of development of distant metastases (mainly brain, distant lymph nodes, multiple simultaneous metastases) and/or a secondary breast cancer.
studies of salt intake in hypertension. what can epidemiology teach us? it has been suggested that small changes in population blood pressure will have a major impact upon the incidence of cardiovascular disease caused by blood pressure elevation. early reports indicated a close correlation between intercultural differences in salt intake and blood pressure. before such epidemiological associations can be translated into population advice, certain conditions have to be met. the association has to be validated scientifically, and persuasive evidence has to be produced that the relationship is causal and reversible by changes in salt intake. further, risk-benefit analysis should indicate that net harm is unlikely. finally it has to be demonstrated that the population measures being advocated will produce an adequate change in dietary salt intake. the small individual effects upon blood pressure being examined, and the prevailing changes in blood pressure and cardiovascular mortality suggest that data will always fall short of the ideal and therefore that extrapolation will always be necessary. nevertheless, a review of the present evidence indicates the inadequacies of the available data as a basis for population advice.
events following implantation of an intraluminal ringed prosthesis in the ascending, transverse, and descending thoracic aorta. from march 1978 through july 1985, 23 patients underwent implantation of 24 intraluminal ringed prostheses (irp). there were 18 men and 5 women, with a mean age of 54.7 years, range 15-74 years. eleven irp were placed in the ascending aorta, two in the transverse arch, and 11 in the descending aorta. pathology included acute aortic dissection in four patients, chronic dissection in four, and aortic aneurysm in 16. there were eight hospital deaths (35%). causes of death included acute cardiac failure in seven patients, and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in one. irp complications requiring revision included right coronary artery occlusion in three of 11 patients (27%) with an irp in the ascending aorta. graft revision was also required in three of 11 irp implanted in the descending aorta (27%), due to graft occlusion in one and graft stenosis in two. of the six patients with irp complications, there were three hospital deaths (50%). all 15 hospital survivors were followed for a mean of 68.5 months, range 5-112 months. there were four late deaths (26.7%). causes of late death included hemoptysis in one, cardiomyopathy in one, and aortic redissection and rupture in two. we conclude that patients undergoing repair of aortic pathology with irp have an important risk of early phase events, as technical problems can occur due to malposition and slippage of the securing rings.
nocturnal sleep recording with cassette eeg in chronic headaches. many headache patients complain of poor sleep, and sleep disturbance has been shown to play a role in chronic pain. we recorded nocturnal sleep with a 4-channel cassette eeg monitoring device in 10 common migraine patients, 10 individuals with muscle contraction (tension) headache, and 10 chronic tension-vascular headache sufferers. migraine patients had essentially normal sleep, although rapid eye movement (rem) sleep and rem latency were increased. patients with tension headache had reduced sleep time and sleep efficiency, decreased sleep latency but frequent awakenings, increased nocturnal movements, and marked reduction in slow wave sleep, without change in rem sleep or latency. mixed-element headaches with both tension and vascular features were associated with reduced sleep, increased awakening, diminished slow wave sleep, and rem sleep that was decreased in amount and reduced in latency. the findings suggest that patients with intermittent migraine may have minimal sleep disturbance, while chronic headache may be worsened by chronically poor sleep. muscle contraction headache may be associated with frequent awakenings and decreased slow wave sleep similar to the sleep changes of fibrositis, while chronic tension-vascular headache may have a depressive substrate. four-channel sleep recording may miss contributory sleep apnea, but nonetheless cassette eeg may facilitate outpatient evaluation of refractory headaches.
effect of h1 receptor stimulation on coronary artery diameter in patients with variant angina: comparison with effect of acetylcholine it has been suggested that histamine is involved in the pathogenesis of coronary spasm but its exact role remains unclear. h1 receptor stimulation of the coronary artery was performed with a selective intracoronary infusion of histamine (2 micrograms/min) in 21 patients with variant angina after blockade of the h2 receptor with cimetidine (25 mg/kg) and its effect on the coronary artery diameter was examined. intracoronary injection of acetylcholine was also performed in 19 of the 21 patients. ergonovine (0.2 mg) was intravenously administered in one patient. the coronary artery diameter was measured with cinevideodensitometric analysis. a mean plasma histamine concentration in the coronary sinus increased from 4 x 10(-9) to 7 x 10(-8) m 5 min after histamine infusion into the left coronary artery (n = 18). coronary spasm was induced in 6 patients (29%) with histamine, in 18 (95%) with acetylcholine and in 1 with ergonovine. the effect of histamine on the luminal diameter was analyzed at the site of spasm in the 26 coronary arteries in which spasm was induced by acetylcholine or ergonovine. of the 20 coronary arteries with a normal arteriogram or a fixed stenosis less than or equal to 50% of luminal diameter, histamine decreased the diameter in 4, increased it in 14 (70%) and caused no change in 2; of the 6 coronary arteries with a fixed stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, histamine decreased the diameter in 5 and increased it in 1. in the coronary arteries in which spasm was not induced by either acetylcholine or ergonovine, histamine increased the diameter, especially in those without advanced atherosclerosis.
muscle rehabilitation in impaired elderly nursing home residents. based on observations of changes in muscle function associated with aging, and the exacerbation of these changes with frailty, a program of muscle strengthening has been developed to correct specific defects in muscles. this pilot study was undertaken on 18 functionally impaired nursing home residents (age range 60 to 90 years) with markedly deteriorated muscle function (50%) secondary to age, disuse, and multiple chronic illnesses. fourteen of the subjects completed the six-week program without adverse effects. in 75% of the patients, there was improved muscle function, with endurance, strength, and speed increasing 35%, 15%, and 10%, respectively. after the program, many subjects increased their spontaneous activity and decreased their dependency. the improvements were still evident four months after rehabilitation. these results suggest that it may be possible, through a carefully supervised, short-term program of muscle rehabilitation, for nursing home residents to achieve an enhanced level of physical functioning.
transforming function of proto-ras genes depends on heterologous promoters and is enhanced by specific point mutations [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 may 1;88(9):4059] based on transfection into cells in culture or natural transduction into retroviruses, proto-ras genes seem to derive transforming function either from heterologous promoters or from point mutations. here we ask how such different events could achieve the same results. to identify homologous regulatory elements, about 3 kilobases of rat dna upstream of the first untranslated proto-ha-ras exon was sequenced. surprisingly, the sequence shares at -1858 a homology of 148 nucleotides with harvey (ha) sarcoma virus, 5' of viral ras, signaling possibly a second untranslated proto-ha-ras exon. in addition the sequence contains a perfect repeat of 25 ca dinucleotides at -2655. a retroviral promoter, even from upstream of the poly(ca), conferred transforming function on proto-ha-ras and increased transcription greater than 100-fold compared with that of unrearranged proto-ras. point mutations were not necessary for transforming function of rat and human proto-ha-ras genes with retroviral promoters but did enhance it greater than 10-fold. a unifying hypothesis proposes that proto-ras genes depend on high expression from heterologous promoters or enhancers for transforming function, which is modulated by ras point mutations. the hypothesis makes two testable predictions. (i) unrearranged proto-ras genes with point mutations, which occur in some cancers, have no transforming function. indeed, tumors with mutated proto-ras genes, even those that also lack hypothetical tumor-suppressor genes, are indistinguishable from counterparts with normal proto-ras genes. (ii) proto-ras genes in transfected cells derive transforming function from heterologous promoters or enhancers acquired via illegitimate recombination from vector dnas and particularly from viral helper genes that must be cotransfected for transformation of primary cells. indeed, expression of exogenous proto-ras genes in cells transformed by transfection is as high as for viral ras genes and is much higher than in the cells of origin.
right ventricular function and metabolism. right ventricular protection may be limited with current methods of cardioplegic delivery. sensitive measurements of right and left ventricular function and metabolism were made in 30 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery with cold cardioplegic arrest. myocardial adenine nucleotide concentrations decreased with cardioplegia and reperfusion in both the right and left ventricles despite adequate levels of precursors, suggesting perioperative mitochondrial dysfunction. postoperatively, right and left ventricular pressures were measured with micromanometer catheters and volumes were measured by nuclear ventriculography. right and left ventricular systolic elastance was calculated by the isochronic method and by the end-systolic method. both methods provided sensitive indexes of end-systolic elastance. this study demonstrated that right ventricular function and metabolism can be evaluated by methods analogous to methods used in the left ventricle. these results suggest that right ventricular functional and metabolic recovery are delayed despite apparently adequate myocardial protection. sensitive measurements may permit improved assessment of alternative methods of right ventricular protection.
the auditory p300 event-related potential: an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease. recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy. this study assesses the value of the auditory p300 event-related potential--a slow component of the auditory evoked response--as a tool in this field. twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic (grade 1/2) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically. electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted. an auditory p300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm. the latency and amplitude of this wave were measured. the latency of the p300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups (p less than 0.05). amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients, but this was not statistically significant. this study suggests that the latency of the p300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy. the delays in the p300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities.
acquired retinal arteriovenous communications in occlusive disease of the carotid artery. retinal arteriovenous communications proximal to extensive areas of complete vascular closure developed in three patients with occlusive disease of the carotid arteries. in one case, the authors document the development of the arteriovenous communications through successive enlargement of small retinal vessels after progressive signs of retinal ischemia in the form of narrowed retinal arteries, venous dilation and beading, microaneurysms, retinal dot and blot hemorrhages, cotton-wool spots, and capillary nonperfusion. the development of arteriovenous communications in carotid occlusive disease has not been described previously.
cigarette smoking, gastric acidity and peptic ulceration. what are the relationships? the influence of cigarette smoking on intragastric acidity was assessed in duodenal ulcer patients in symptomatic remission and in healthy volunteers in a retrospective study. continuous 24-hr ph recordings in 150 nonsmokers and 174 smokers receiving placebo treatment were compared. daytime intragastric acidity was higher in smokers with a median ph (interquartile range) of 1.56 (1.34-1.80) than in nonsmokers, who had a median ph of 1.70 (1.45-1.97) (p less than 0.001). there was no difference in 24-hr and nighttime median ph between the two groups. the small difference in daytime intragastric acidity in smokers and nonsmokers is unlikely to account for the increased prevalence of peptic ulcer disease in smokers. the analysis of smoking status in duodenal ulcer patients and healthy controls and males and females supports the general trend towards higher daytime acidity in smokers. again, no differences in ph during the 24-hr or night period were found between the groups. the epidemiological and clinical correlation between smoking and duodenal ulcer disease is not adequately explained by increased intragastric acidity.
continuous regional cerebral blood flow monitoring in acute craniocerebral trauma. regional cortical cerebral blood flow (rcbf) and intracranial pressure (icp) were monitored continuously with a combined thermal diffusion probe/icp monitor in 12 patients (8 men and 4 women; mean age, 31 years; range, 7-65 years) with acute head injuries. the mean glasgow coma scale score at admission was 6 (range, 4-12). the rcbf/icp probes were placed during surgical procedures (n = 11) or in an intensive care unit (n = 1) for subdural hematomas (n = 7), cerebral contusions (n = 4), and an epidural hematoma (n = 1). no probe-related complications occurred. reduced cbf often occurred and was often inversely proportional to elevations in icp. posttraumatic cerebral arterial vasospasm in one patient was detected by rcbf monitoring and confirmed by angiography. in 6 patients who progressed to brain death, rcbf patterns disappeared, which correlated with their clinical and electroencephalographic examinations. several patients with severe, diffuse brain injuries and high icp had hyperemic rcbf patterns. in 2 of these patients, increases in rcbf preceded rises in icp, which implied loss of autoregulation as a mechanism in the development of malignant cerebral edema. this method of cbf monitoring has not yet been established for clinical decision making. the early detection of ischemic or hyperemic responses by continuous cbf monitoring could hasten intervention aimed at restoring adequate tissue perfusion. the technique could also serve as an index of the efficacy of therapeutic interventions and is suitable to gain more insight into the pathophysiology of head injury, especially the relationship of cbf to icp.
occult inferior vena cava thrombosis: diagnosis by sonography--case reports. ultrasound has become an effective tool for evaluating the inferior vena cava. the authors report 3 cases that illustrate the difficulty in diagnosing partially adherent clots, which may have a high propensity for pulmonary embolism.
transesophageal echocardiographic features of normal and dysfunctioning bioprosthetic valves. transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography and color flow doppler were performed in patients with 42 normal and 20 dysfunctioning bioprosthetic mitral and aortic valves. transesophageal echocardiography was superior to the transthoracic approach in delineating bioprosthetic valve cusps and the presence of valve thickening due to valve degeneration. in 27 clinically normal bioprosthetic mitral valves, regurgitation was demonstrated in three patients by the transthoracic approach and in seven by transesophageal study. both transesophageal and transthoracic color flow doppler demonstrated mitral regurgitation in 17 clinically regurgitant valves. the severity of mitral regurgitation was accurately assessed by the transesophageal study in all 13 patients who underwent angiography, whereas the transthoracic imaging underestimated valvular regurgitation in 7 of the 13 cases (54%). bioprosthetic aortic valves were normal on clinical examination in 15 patients and were regurgitant in three others. both transthoracic and transesophageal color flow doppler were of equal value in observing and quantifying aortic regurgitation. in five clinically normal and regurgitant mitral and aortic valves, transesophageal color flow doppler revealed eccentric regurgitant jets suggestive of paravalvular leak. this feature was not evident by the transthoracic approach. in conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography and color flow doppler are superior to transthoracic imaging in estimating bioprosthetic mitral, but not aortic regurgitation, in differentiating valvular from paravalvular regurgitation, and in demonstrating thickened valves due to cusp degeneration.
syndromes of transient amnesia: towards a classification. a study of 153 cases. of 153 patients presenting with acute transient amnesia, 114 fulfilled the proposed strict diagnostic criteria for transient global amnesia (tga). the prognosis of this group was excellent with the exception of a small subgroup (7%), largely identifiable because of atypically brief or recurrent attacks, who developed epilepsy of temporal lobe type on follow up. computerised tomography (ct) scans performed on 95 patients were normal, evidence for covert alcoholism was lacking and there was a familial incidence of approximately 2%. by contrast, the group of 39 patients who did not meet the criteria for tga had a significantly worse prognosis with a high incidence of major vascular events. the groups could not be distinguished on the basis of behavioural characteristics during the attack. the following classification was proposed: 1) pure tga--attacks fulfilling the strict criteria, and of more than one hour in duration which do not require detailed investigation, 2) probable epileptic amnesia--attacks of less than an hour or rapidly recurrent, 3) probable transient ischaemic amnesia, a minority of cases with additional focal neurological deficits during the attack.
acute myeloid leukemia and background radiation in an expanded case-referent study. a case-referent study that investigated possible associations between environmental and occupational exposures and acute myeloid leukemia was performed on 86 cases and 172 referents, all of whom were living. exposure information was obtained through a questionnaire mailed to each subject. an association was found between time spent in concrete buildings at home and work and leukemia morbidity. in addition, extensive x-ray examinations that occurred more than 5 y prior to diagnosis were more common among cases than referents.
clinical and doppler echocardiographic follow-up after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for aortic valve stenosis. percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has been shown to increase the aortic orifice area and to improve clinical symptoms. however, there are only few data concerning long-term results after balloon valvuloplasty. in this study, 36 patients (11 men, 25 women, mean age 75 +/- 8 years) were followed after balloon valvuloplasty for a period of up to 18 months by means of clinical parameters and repeated doppler echocardiographic measurements after 1, 3, 6, 12 and 18 months. invasive measurements revealed a decrease of the systolic peak gradient from 78 +/- 24 to 38 +/- 13 mm hg (p less than 0.001), and an increase in the aortic orifice area from 0.58 +/- 0.23 to 0.93 +/- 0.2 cm2 (p less than 0.001). the doppler echocardiographic approach revealed that the maximal instantaneous gradient decreased from 96 +/- 26 to 67 +/- 22 mm hg (p less than 0.001). the aortic orifice area increased from 0.49 +/- 0.16 to 0.73 +/- 0.21 cm2 (p less than 0.001). three patients (8%) died in the hospital. after hospital discharge, 16 patients (44%) died and 8 patients (22%) underwent successful aortic valve replacement after a mean follow-up of 8 +/- 6 months. nine patients (25%) were alive after a follow-up period of 18 months. seven of these (19%) remained clinically improved. during follow-up, the doppler echocardiographic results revealed a continuous trend toward the preprocedural severity of the aortic valve stenosis. progression of restenosis assessed by doppler echocardiographic measurements was accelerated in the group of patients who subsequently died or underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty or aortic valve replacement.
doppler assessment of pulmonary hypertension induced by hypoxic breathing in subjects susceptible to high altitude pulmonary edema. to verify the abnormal pulmonary vascular response implicated in the pathogenesis of high altitude pulmonary edema (hape), we examined the hemodynamic responses to hypoxia in hape-susceptible subjects (hape-s) by means of both right heart catheterization and pulsed doppler echocardiography. the hape-s were seven men and one woman with a history of hape. six healthy volunteers who had repeated experiences of mountain climbing without any history of altitude-related problems served as control subjects. the hape-s showed much greater increase in pulmonary vascular resistance (pvr) than did the control subjects, resulting in a much higher level of pulmonary arterial pressure (ppa) under acute hypoxia both of 15% o2 and 10% o2. we then evaluated the usefulness of pulsed doppler echocardiography in the prediction of pulmonary hypertension. acceleration time (act) and right ventricular ejection time (rvet) were measured from the flow velocity pattern in the right ventricular outflow tract. the ratio of act to rvet was correlated to invasively determined mean ppa (ppa) and pvr. the results were as follows: (1) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.0047 (ppa), r = -0.93, see = 0.017, p less than 0.001 (hape-s); (2) act/rvet = 0.55 to 0.0055 (ppa), r = -0.70, see = 0.030, p less than 0.001 (hape-s); (4) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.00077 (pvr), r = -0.91, see = 0.016, p less than 0.001 (control subjects). we conclude that hape-s have a constitutional abnormality in the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxia, which is a possible causative factor of hape, and that pulsed doppler echocardiography may be supportive to assess the pulmonary vascular pressor response in the hape-s.
timing of osteosynthesis of major fractures in patients with severe brain injury. a retrospective study was performed to assess the effects on outcome of early osteosynthesis of major extremity fractures in patients with severe brain injury (gcs less than or equal to 7). in a consecutive series of 58 patients, early osteosynthesis was performed on the day of injury in 15 patients. (group a). in 43 patients no major fractures were present or no early osteosynthesis was performed (group b). the severity of brain injury as seen on ct scan was similar in both groups. mortality was significantly lower in group a, despite a significantly higher iss. as to the functional end result of brain injury, an indication of a better outcome was present in group a.
segmental vascular resistance in postobstructive pulmonary vasculopathy. chronic unilateral pulmonary arterial ligation has been touted as a model of arteriopathy resulting in a tremendous increase in anastomotic bronchial flow (qbr) via collaterals. to investigate its effects on the pulmonary vasculature, we ligated the left main pulmonary artery of seven dogs and 120 days later pump perfused their left lower lobes (lll) via a cannula in the pulmonary artery at pulmonary arterial flow (qpa) of 250 ml/min. we measured qbr (330 ml/min) and compared lll with control contralateral right lower lobes (rll) and three lll from normal dogs. pressure-flow (p-q) curves were obtained by varying qpa. with arterial and venous occlusion we measured total, arterial, venous, and middle segment resistances under baseline conditions, after serotonin and histamine, either with or without qpa and with antegrade and retrograde qbr. light microscopy was done postmortem. the slope of the p-q curve was 33.4 mmhg.l-1.min in the ligated lobes compared with 15.9 in the controls, attributable by the occlusion technique mainly to a rise in arterial resistance (22.4 mmhg.l-1.min compared with 7.4 in the controls) with a small rise in venous resistance. this was explained by significant arterial medial muscle thickening and some loss of lll volume. the arterial segment was markedly hypersensitive to serotonin, and the venous segment was mildly hypersensitive to histamine compared with controls. the occlusion data also enabled us to model the point of entry of the bronchial circulation into the pulmonary circuit at the precapillary level and to calculate bronchial vascular resistance. we conclude that postobstructive vasculopathy substantially raises pulmonary vascular resistance, mainly upstream from the site of entry of the bronchial circulation. the role of the latter may be to keep it from rising excessively in the segments it perfuses, i.e., the middle and venous ones.
severe fibromyalgia after hypophysectomy for cushing's disease. we report a case of fibromyalgia occurring after hypophysectomy for cushing's disease. clinical examination revealed tender points at 12 of the 18 tender point sites described in the american college of rheumatology 1990 criteria for the classification of fibromyalgia. the cause of fibromyalgia remains unknown. in our patient, hypophysectomy may have played a role by disturbing endorphin secretion and pain modulation.
immunohistochemical characterization of microvascular endothelial cells in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract. microvascular endothelial cells (enc) in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract were immunohistochemically studied. based on the morphological structure, the microvasculatures were divided into high endothelial cell vessels (hev) and flat endothelial cell vessels (fev). there were distinct phenotypic differences between hev and fev in lymphoma tissues. hev were characterized as okm1- okm5-, accompanied by the cluster of non-neoplastic t lymphocytes, and fev were okm1- okm5+ not accompanied by t lymphocyte infiltration. factor viii-related antigen was clearly identified in both enc, and major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii antigens and interleukin 1 were absent or only faintly visible on enc in lymphoma tissues, whereas they were expressed on enc in non-lymphoma tissues. these findings suggest that microvascular enc in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract lack a property as antigen-presenting cells, and that hev are involved in the migration of non-neoplastic t lymphocytes.
pathophysiologic changes in the critically ill patient: risk factors for ulceration and altered drug metabolism. virtually all patients who are under the physiologic stress of an intensive care unit (icu) are vulnerable to stress-related mucosal damage and ulceration. although clinically significant hemorrhage from stress ulceration occurs in only 5-20 percent of patients in the icu, the associated mortality is greater than 50 percent. the pathophysiologic mechanisms of stress ulcer are not well understood; however, a number of risk factors such as intraluminal gastric acidity and mucosal ischemia have been implicated. to prevent the development of stress ulcers and subsequent complications, it is important to identify and correct these underlying risk factors. improving mucosal blood flow (i.e., fluid resuscitation and low-dose dopamine) and providing adequate nutritional support are invaluable adjuncts in minimizing the risk of stress ulcer formation. the use of pharmacologic prophylaxis controls the gastric acidity and prevents the formation of stress ulcers. the potential for drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions are of particular concern in the care of critically ill patients. multiple organ system dysfunction or failure, malnutrition, fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, as well as the use of multiple pharmacologic agents predispose these patients to alterations in drug pharmacokinetics, drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions. these changes may alter the pharmacodynamic response to therapy and must be considered when designing drug dosage regimens for critically ill patients.
enalapril-associated anemia in renal transplant recipients treated for hypertension. we encountered a renal transplant recipient who developed an unexplained 0.09 decrease in hematocrit value while taking enalapril for hypertension, which reversed when the drug was stopped. this experience, and a previous similar case report, prompted a review of all our 27 transplant patients treated with enalapril. of these, 10 patients (37%) had developed an otherwise unaccounted for anemia: the pre-enalapril hematocrit value was 0.42 +/- 0.01 and it decreased to the nadir value of 0.33 +/- 0.01 (p less than 0.001) within 12.3 +/- 0.9 weeks after initiation of 9 +/- 2.4 mg of enalapril daily; enalapril was stopped in seven patients and their anemia resolved within 9.1 +/- 0.7 weeks to a final hematocrit value of 0.40 +/- 0.01. the remaining three patients were maintained on enalapril at their physicians' discretion, without further decrease in hematocrit values. no appreciable changes in drug regimens, clinical course, or other laboratory parameters were noted during this period. a causal relationship between enalapril and anemia was suggested by the effect of drug withdrawal and rechallenge on hematocrit in one of the patients. there were no statistically significant differences in baseline clinical and laboratory characteristics between those patients who did (group i) and those who did not (group ii) develop enalapril-associated anemia, with the exception of a normal hematocrit value of 0.42 +/- 0.01 in group i versus a lower hematocrit value of 0.36 +/- 0.02 in group ii (p less than 0.05). we conclude that enalapril should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anemia following renal transplantation. susceptibility to this effect might emanate from the immunosuppressed state.
strategy for breakpoint cluster region analysis in chronic myelocytic leukemia in a routine clinical laboratory. despite the increasing reliance on breakpoint cluster region (bcr) determinations in diagnosis of chronic myelocytic leukemia (cml), few reports have dealt with the practical aspects of specimen analysis. in the setting of a routine molecular diagnostics laboratory, samples from 68 patients with active cml were evaluated for bcr rearrangements, with the use of a variety of enzymes and two probes. the data have been used to develop an efficient strategy for bcr screening and breakpoint determination. screening with the universal bcr (ubcr) probe on xba i and bgi ii digests yielded bcr rearrangements in 100% of the ph1-positive patients and three of the seven ph1-negative patients, giving bcr analysis a sensitivity of 100%. a single-enzyme screen using the ubcr probe would have resulted in a false negative rate of 10%. the false negative rate was determined during the breakpoint site analysis from additional digests hybridized to both the 3' and ubcr probes. the false negative rate for the 3' probe was 26.5%, because of deletions or 5' rearrangements. the method of breakpoint site determination was dependent on screening results. in 78% of cases, one additional hybridization with two enzyme digests was required. during breakpoint site analysis, a rare false negative result was also demonstrated with bam hi and eco ri. this screening strategy has made bcr analysis competitive with cytogenetic analysis at the authors' institution; although turnaround time may be slightly longer, bcr analysis can yield information (such as detecting bcr-positive/ph1-negative patients and determining breakpoint site) that cannot be obtained by cytogenetics.
calcifications in breast biopsy specimens: discrepancies in radiologic-pathologic identification. to analyze the effectiveness and accuracy of the diagnostic process from screening mammography to final diagnosis at pathologic examination, the authors conducted a prospective study of 277 consecutive patients who underwent 291 mammographically directed biopsies of nonpalpable lesions. of the 170 lesions that demonstrated findings consistent with calcification on preoperative mammograms and radiographs of specimens, 12 (7.1%) were not described by the pathologist as being calcified. these discrepancies were due to inadequate sampling in three cases (25%), lack of explicit description by the pathologist in four (33%), presence of oxalate crystals that required examination with polarizing lenses in two (17%), and unexplained loss of tissue probably related to processing in three (25%). of the 121 lesions that did not demonstrate findings consistent with calcification at radiography, eight (6.6%) were described as calcified by the pathologist. the authors recommend a protocol for avoiding these discrepancies that involves performance of a more comprehensive examination of histologic sections by the pathologist, including the use of polarizing lenses, if necessary, and radiographic reexamination of paraffin-embedded tissue blocks with subsequent step sectioning by the pathologist when results are positive.
central venous oxygen saturation: a useful clinical tool in trauma patients. an accurate method of estimating acute blood loss is essential in the evaluation of injured patients. central venous oxygen (cvo2) saturation has been shown to be a sensitive and reliable correlate of blood loss in an animal model but its clinical validity is unproven. we evaluated 26 consecutive patients with an injury mechanism suggesting blood loss but who were deemed stable after initial evaluation. vital signs (pulse, blood pressure, pulse pressure, urine output, cvp) and cvo2 saturation were serially measured. blood loss was estimated by direct intracavitary collection or serial hematocrits and acute transfusion requirements. despite stable vital signs, ten patients (39%) had cvo2 saturations under 65%. these patients had more serious injuries, significantly larger estimated blood losses, and required more transfusions than those patients with cvo2 saturation greater than 65%. linear regression analysis demonstrated the superiority of cvo2 saturation to predict blood loss with a p value less than 0.005 relative to any of the normally followed parameters. cvo2 saturation is a reliable and sensitive method for detecting blood loss. it is a useful tool in the evaluation of acutely injured patients.
correlations between vertebral regional bone mineral density (rbmd) and whole bone fracture load. to assess the significance of regional quantitative computed tomography measurements of bone density with respect to mechanical strength in the human lumbar spine, 58 vertebrae (from 12 males, 10 females) were scanned in vitro with multiple-thin-slice quantitative computed tomography and then compressed to fracture. with computer graphics, 18 specific regions of physical density and 10 combination averages of density were identified within each vertebral body. to ensure the statistical independence of data, the individual vertebral specimens were assigned to one of three groups (t11-l1, l2-l3, or l4-l5). use of best-subsets procedures resulted in regression models to predict fracture strength. these models used specific regional density values and often the age and sex of the donors. the correlation coefficients that resulted from the multiple regression models ranged from r = 0.88 to r = 0.95. when the density values were multiplied by the minimum cross-sectional area of the vertebral body, similar regional density averages were selected, and the predictive values were slightly improved (r = 0.94-0.97). the heterogeneity of the density samples (measured as standard deviation) in multiple regression fashion also produced strong correlation coefficients (r = 0.88-0.94). the bone density in an anterior cylinder of the midplane region, the location measured most often in quantitative computed tomography densitometry, was strongly correlated (r = 0.85) to fracture load for the t12-l1 group (n = 20), but was not significant for the other two groups of vertebrae. the cancellous bone density from the female data was not found to be significantly different from the male data set.
reoperation for biliary strictures. benign bile duct strictures most often follow intraoperative injury not recognized until later. the ideal reconstruction entails a mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis without tension, usually with a stent tube to maintain patency in the immediate postoperative period. the mortality rate for reoperation and bile duct reconstruction in patients who are not cirrhotic is approximately 2%, and success rates average 85%. prevention of operative injuries by the use of cholangiography, careful dissection, and removal of the gallbladder from the fundus downward is the best treatment.
potentiation of the erythropoietin response by dimethyl sulfoxide priming of erythroleukemia cells: evidence for interaction of two signaling pathways. erythropoietin (epo) and dimethyl sulfoxide (dmso) are believed to induce the differentiation of transformed erythroid cells by different signal transduction pathways. we have now obtained evidence for the interaction of these pathways. we used a rauscher murine erythroleukemia cell line with a relatively low (8% to 10%) hemoglobinization response to epo alone. pretreatment of these cells for 1 day with dmso followed by its removal and the addition of epo resulted in a marked enhancement of the epo specific hemoglobinization. we have designated this effect "dmso priming." this priming effect of dmso on the epo response was both time-dependent and dmso concentration-dependent. dmso priming potentiated the epo response in three ways. firstly, dmso priming increased the total number of epo responsive cells from 8% to 10% to 40% to 60%. secondly, dmso priming reduced the time required to reach the optimal epo-induced response from 4 days to 2 days. thirdly, the epo dose-response curve was left-shifted approximately 20-fold. dmso priming was also associated with a marked increase in epo receptor density characterized by an apparently new receptor population and by the appearance of positive cooperativity between receptors. our results suggest that the dmso priming effect is due to potentiation of the epo signaling pathway, thus resulting in a much more rapid and dramatic epo-induced hemoglobinization response.
lipiodol computerized tomography: how sensitive and specific is the technique in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma? computerized tomography (ct) following the intra-arterial injection of lipiodol (lipiodol-ct) was performed on 60 patients suspected of having a hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). four main patterns of uptake of the lipiodol within the liver were seen on ct. of the 14 well circumscribed lesions with dense homogeneous uptake of lipiodol, 13 were confirmed to be hccs. of the 25 lesions with dense patchy uptake of lipiodol at the periphery and/or in the centre, 19 were confirmed to be hccs. in 18 patients, in whom only ill defined faint patchy uptake of lipiodol was present in the liver, or in whom no hepatic uptake was present at all, only one patient was found later to have an hcc. of the three hypodense lesions in the liver with no lipiodol uptake, one was found to be necrotic hcc, one a cholangiocarcinoma and one a regenerative nodule. in the diagnosis of hcc, lipiodol-ct had an overall sensitivity of 97.1%, an accuracy of 88.3% and a specificity of 76.9%. of the 34 patients with hcc, only 23 were solitary at diagnosis. the size of the hccs ranged from 0.8 cm to 11 cm in diameter with the median size at 2.2 cm. eleven of 34 hccs (32.3%) were resectable. we conclude that, as part of a screening programme for high risk patients. lipiodol-ct is useful in the early detection of hccs. the technique also plays an important role in determining whether the tumour should be resected or managed with chemotherapy. by detecting hccs while still small, the resectability rate can also be improved.
secondary femoral-distal bypass. thirty-nine secondary femoral-distal (femorotibial and femoroperoneal) bypasses were reviewed and compared to 89 primary femoral-distal bypasses (done during the same time period) to investigate the efficacy of secondary femoral-distal bypass. graft patency at 2 years by life table analysis was similar in both groups (38% primary group vs 36% secondary group). however, limb salvage was significantly less in the secondary group (52% vs 68% at 2 years, p less than 0.05). this decrease was primarily due to poorer limb salvage using composite grafts (prosthetic/vein) compared to vein grafts in patients who underwent secondary femoral-distal bypasses (37% vs 76% at 2 years, p less than 0.05). postoperative wound infections and mortality were similar in both groups. thus, femoral-distal bypass after failure of a previous infrainguinal reconstruction offers good long-term limb salvage with acceptable surgical risk when autologous vein is available for use as the arterial conduit.
administered dose and tumor dose of bleomycin labeled with cobalt-57 in mice and men. tumor concentrations of the chemotherapeutic drug, bleomycin, labeled with cobalt-57 (co-bleo) were compared in mouse tumor models and in human lung tumors using quantitative single-photon emission computed tomography. drug concentrations in histologically similar human tumors showed marked variability for the same injected dose (id). small cell carcinomas showed concentrations between 1.09 and 8.85 %id/cc x 10(-3) while non-small cell lung tumors showed a concentration variation between 0.36 and 6.75 %id/cc x 10(-3). in contrast to the situation in human tumors, uptake in mouse tumors showed only slight variability in animals with the same tumor model. emt-6 tumors in mice showed at 6 hr significantly higher uptake of co-bleo (p less than 0.001) and significantly higher tumor-to-lung ratio (p less than 0.001) when compared to murine fibrosarcomas. the emt-6 tumors in contrast to the fibrosarcomas responded to bleomycin treatment in a dose dependent manner. the results indicate that while in mice the tumor dose closely follows the administered dose, in humans, the tumor dose and the tumor-to-lung ratio in the individual patient cannot be predicted from the administered dose.
accumulation of p21ras.gtp in response to stimulation with epidermal growth factor and oncogene products with tyrosine kinase activity. the ras gene product (p21) is a gtp-binding protein and has been thought to transduce signals regulating proliferation or differentiation of cells. like other gtp-binding proteins, p21.gtp is an active conformation, which can transduce the signals downstream, whereas p21.gdp is an inactive one. recently, we have shown that p21.gtp levels increased in cells treated with fetal bovine serum or platelet-derived growth factor to initiate dna synthesis. in this paper, we report that epidermal growth factor can also increase the amounts of p21.gtp in the cells. effects of epidermal growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor are not additive. in contrast, mutant [val12]p21, which has transforming activity, responded neither to platelet-derived growth factor nor to epidermal growth factor. we also found that the ratio of p21.gtp to p21.gdp increased 3- to 4-fold in transformants carrying activated erbb-2/neu or v-src oncogenes. these results strongly suggest an important role of p21 in transduction of signals for both normal proliferation and malignant transformation through growth factor receptors with tyrosine kinase activity or related oncogene products.
milk protein enteropathy after acute infectious gastroenteritis: experimental and clinical observations. animal models of allergic gastroenteropathy have defined both morphologic and physiologic changes that accompany the immune-mediated reaction to a dietary protein. in such models a broadening of the allergic response to other dietary proteins present in the gastrointestinal tract may occur during the localized anaphylactic reaction. the characteristic histologic intestinal findings of food protein-induced enteropathy may develop in selected infants with protracted diarrhea after infectious enteritis. mechanisms underlying the induction of this response remain to be explained, but they may in part be similar to the broadening of the hypersensitivity response seen in experimental models of allergic enteropathy.
upper-airway obstruction after multilevel cervical corpectomy for myelopathy. we reviewed the cases of seven patients who had had obstruction of the upper airway immediately after an anterior procedure on the cervical spine and had required reintubation. all patients had had moderate or severe myelopathy preoperatively (average, 3.6 on the nurick scale), and all had had a multilevel anterior cervical corpectomy for decompression followed by arthrodesis. the early compromise of the upper airway was believed to be due to edema rather than to the formation of a hematoma. five patients had no sequelae, but two died of complications related to the obstruction. risk factors common to these patients included moderate or severe myelopathy and multilevel corpectomy. six patients had a history of heavy smoking and one, of asthma. we believe that extra caution should be used in the postoperative management of the airways when multilevel corpectomy is performed in patients who have these pre-existing conditions.
postoperative irrigation-suction drainage after pelvic colonic surgery. a prospective randomized trial. a 2-year randomized prospective clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether postoperative irrigation of the pelvis would result in a decreased incidence of local septic complications. two hundred consecutive patients undergoing low pelvic procedures with rectal resection and entry of the presacral space by a single surgeon, were randomized. in the irrigation group, two of four presacral sump drains were placed to low intermittent suction and the remaining sumps infused continuously with saline until the effluent was clear. in the drainage alone group, all four presacral sump drains were placed to suction. drains were removed when drainage was less than 50 ml/24 hours. perioperative antibiotics and bowel preparation were identical. postoperative complications included pelvic abscess (n = 7), anastomotic leak/cuff sinus (n = 11), abdominal wound infection (n = 19), and perineal wound infection (n = 5). postoperative irrigation of the pelvis did not result in a reduction in the overall rate of local pelvic septic complications. positive intraoperative presacral cultures, the presence of anaerobes in the presacral space, and duration of pelvic drainage had no effect on the development of pelvic sepsis.
the diagnosis and definition of hepatic malignancies by use of arterial enhanced computerized tomographic scanning. axial computerized tomography is a useful tool in the evaluation of either primary or metastatic hepatic neoplasms. an adjunct to this technique is visceral arterial enhanced computerized tomography (aect). to determine the effectiveness of this modality, bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography scans and aect were compared and correlated to operative findings. fifty-four consecutive patients were evaluated by aect and bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography over a 30-month period (may 1986 to august 1989) for suspected primary or metastatic hepatic malignancies. forty-four patients (81%) had hepatic lesions. fifty-two percent (23 of 44 patients) of the metastatic tumors were from colonic or rectal primary lesions, and 20% were hepatocellular primary lesions. the remainder of the lesions were metastases from a variety of primary lesions. when studies were compared, 34% of the patients (15 of 44 patients) differed in either the location or total number of lesions noted. the lesions of three of the 15 patients (20%) were determined unresectable on the basis of aect. of the remaining patients, planned resections were revised in seven patients to either lesser or greater procedures. the number of lesions found at laparotomy equaled the number found by aect in all but two cases. aect caused no complications. aect improved our ability to identify and localize primary and metastatic lesions of the liver. this technique offers the advantage of preoperative definition of the hepatic arterial and portal venous anatomy.
exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy in the diagnosis and prognosis of coronary artery disease. objective: to determine the discriminant accuracy of exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and prognosis of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease. data identification: a survey of the national library of medicine medline database. study selection: the key medical subject headings used were coronary disease, myocardial infarction, radionuclide imaging, and thallium. a total of 122 retrieved studies were considered relevant and were reviewed in depth. data extraction: only studies reporting both the sensitivity and specificity of thallium scintigraphy were analyzed. results: discriminant accuracy for diagnosis and prognosis was summarized in terms of pooled sensitivity and specificity. conclusions: exercise thallium scintigraphy is useful in the noninvasive diagnosis of coronary artery disease, especially in patients with abnormal resting electrocardiograms, restricted exercise tolerance, and intermediate probability of having disease at the time of testing as well as of defining the prognosis of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease, especially in those with previous myocardial infarction. because of various shortcomings in the published record, however, the marginal discriminant accuracy and cost effectiveness of thallium scintigraphy compared with conventional clinical assessment and exercise electrocardiography remain controversial.
recanalization of chronic, totally occluded coronary arteries by new angioplasty systems. the benefit and safety of new angioplasty equipment as compared with the conventional guidewire approach was evaluated in 154 consecutive patients. with chronic, totally occluded coronary arteries. the protocol followed a stepwise design: first, conventional guidewires and low-profile balloons were used, followed by "balloon-on-the-wire" systems (probe, ace) or by a shaft-enforced, tip-deflecting catheter (omniflex). in 97 patients with occlusions of 2 to 12 weeks' duration, recanalization was achieved in 51 patients (53%) with the conventional approach and in 29 patients with the new devices (balloon-on-the-wire [n = 5], omniflex [n = 24]), thereby raising the success rate to 82%. in 57 occlusions of greater than 12 weeks' duration, the recanalization attempt was successful in 58%, mediated in 16 patients (28%) by the omniflex catheter and in 5 patients by balloon-on-the-wire systems. there were no life-threatening complications and only 1 (0.6%) emergency bypass operation was necessary. new angioplasty devices are therefore of considerable value in the attempt to improve the results of coronary angioplasty in chronic total occlusions.
clinical observation on the association of gallstones and colorectal cancer. a possible association between gallstones, colorectal cancer, and gastric cancer was investigated. the age distribution and mean age of the two cancer groups were identical. the incidence of gallstones in 378 colorectal cancer cases and 869 gastric cancer cases was 7.1% and 5.5%, respectively. of colorectal cancer cases, 33 cases with multiple carcinomas had a significantly higher gallstone incidence than cases with a solitary carcinoma--24.2% and 5.5%, respectively. the mean age was 5 years older in gallstone cases than in those without gallstones in both cancer groups, and it was 4 years older in multiple-carcinoma cases than in solitary-carcinoma cases in the colorectal cancer group. these results suggest that the higher levels of same causative factors (i.e., dietary fat) are associated with a longer duration of gallstone formation and colorectal cancer development as demonstrated by multiple colorectal-carcinoma cases.
intrahepatic cholesterol stones: a rationale for dissolution therapy. a case of primary cholesterol hepatolithiasis is reported. stone composition was documented by infrared spectroscopy, and the presence of cholesterol saturated bile was demonstrated using standard biochemical techniques. the patient was treated with operative stone extraction, choledochoscopy, biliary enteric anastomosis, and oral dissolution therapy. the administration of oral dissolution agents has altered the composition of the patient's bile and may prevent further stone formation. we advocate the use of both stone and biliary biochemical analysis for patients with primary hepatolithiasis to facilitate optimal therapy.
safety and efficacy of urokinase during elective coronary angioplasty. eighty-nine of 462 patients were treated with adjunctive urokinase during elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), 26% for unstable angina, 34% for intracoronary thrombus, 27% for intimal dissection, 10% for abrupt closure, and 3% for saphenous vein graft embolism. the 80 patients treated before abrupt closure (group a) were compared with 167 patients with similar profiles who did not receive urokinase (group b). procedural success rates were similar. adverse cardiac events (abrupt closure, myocardial infarction, emergency coronary artery bypass, or death) in group a versus group b occurred in: 1 of 30 (3%) versus 5 of 27 (18.5%) (p = 0.07) with intracoronary thrombus, 5 of 45 (9%) versus 18 of 110 (16.3%) with unstable angina, 1 of 12 (8%) versus 4 of 13 (31%) with unstable angina with intracoronary thrombus, 4 of 33 (12%) versus 14 of 97 (14.4%) with unstable angina without intracoronary thrombus, and 5 of 24 (20.8%) versus 6 of 66 (9%) with intimal dissection. hemorrhagic complications occurred in 11% of patients who were treated with urokinase versus 9% of patients who were not (p = ns). no difference in blood transfusions existed. thus urokinase was found to be safe during elective ptca. in patients with intracoronary thrombus, urokinase appears to decrease the incidence of new adverse cardiac events, whereas in patients with intimal dissection it might have an adverse effect.
analysis of bladder carcinoma by subsite. cystoscopic location may have prognostic value. nine hundred fourteen cases of carcinoma of the urinary bladder registered from 1977 to 1988 with the kansas state tumor registry were evaluated by subsite for differences in grade, histology, sex, age at diagnosis, and survival. only initial occurrences of carcinoma were included. carcinoma of the lateral walls accounted for 37.1%; the posterior wall, 17.9%; the trigone, 12.6%; the neck, 11.1%; the ureteric orifices, 9.8%; the dome, 7.7%; and the anterior wall, 3.8%. malignant neoplasms occurring in the neck of the bladder had a significantly poorer prognosis by survival analysis (p less than 0.05). malignancies of the dome were found to present as higher grade lesions (p = 0.00003), and carcinoma of the ureteric orifices and lateral walls tended to be of lower grade (p = 0.02 and p = 0.05, respectively). carcinomas of the anterior wall and dome occurred in a more elderly population (mean ages, 75.6 and 73.9 years, respectively), and carcinomas of the trigone and ureteric orifices occurred in a younger group (mean ages, 68.3 and 67.5 years, respectively). on histologic evaluation the trigone gave rise to more squamous cell carcinoma than expected (p = 0.001, 325% of expected). no distribution difference was noted among subsites with respect to sex. these data show significant differences among subsites of the urinary bladder with regard to survival, grade, histology, and age at diagnosis.
hypergastrinemia, gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia, and intractable diarrhea. a patient with pernicious anemia developed severe intractable diarrhea night and day. investigation revealed chronic atrophic gastritis and a markedly elevated level of serum gastrin. no obvious explantation for the diarrhea was found, but after antrectomy, the gastrin level returned to normal and the diarrhea subsided. possible mechanisms for an association between diarrhea and hypergastrinemia include colonic hypermotility secondary to release of acetylcholine and inhibition of fluid and electrolyte reabsorption within the small bowel.
evolution of in vitro transformation and tumorigenesis of hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized primary cervical epithelial cells. cervical carcinoma develops through a progressive spectrum of premalignant intraepithelial lesions (cin i-iii), the majority of which are associated with human papillomavirus (hpv) types 16 and 18. we established hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized human cervical epithelial cell lines and used them as a model to investigate the genesis and progression of cervical malignancy. the cell lines when cultured in vitro in a system mimicking their in vivo environment exhibit cytologic atypia and a variety of defects in morphologic differentiation at early passage compared to their normal counterparts. with increased passage, these alterations progress to more severe grades, histologically similar to cin iii; however only a limited number of the cell lines are tumorigenic, mimicking the epidemiologic evidence on the rate of conversion from premalignant to invasive carcinoma. the observed changes are not associated with alterations of viral dna integration or expression and may reflect specific cellular events or changes in virus-host interactions associated with malignant progression.
long-term sequelae of conservative treatment by surgery, brachytherapy, and chemotherapy for vulval and vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma in children. between 1970 and 1978, 17 girls with rhabdomyosarcoma (rms) of the vulva or vagina were treated at the institut gustave-roussy (igr) by conservative treatment including surgery, brachytherapy, and chemotherapy. twelve pubescent or postpubescent girls were studied for long-term sequelae. eleven of 12 patients have had a normal puberty, two have a total of three healthy children, 11 have normal menses, and 10 normal menarche (one after hormonal replacement). only one patient underwent hysterectomy following low-dose brachytherapy. five girls have no vaginal complications, and three are sexually active. three have had minimal vaginal sequelae, which required surgical correction to permit sexual intercourse. four girls sustained serious sequelae (colorectal, vaginal, urethral, and ureteral stenosis). these sequelae, secondary to irradiation, are potentially avoidable in the future given the current advances in brachytherapy and improvements in dosimetry. this conservative treatment is useful and appropriate for girls with rms of vulvar or vaginal origin when complete remission cannot be obtained with chemotherapy and partial colpectomy.
maple syrup urine disease caused by a partial deletion in the inner e2 core domain of the branched chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex due to aberrant splicing. a single base deletion at a 5'-splice donor site of an intron of the e2 gene disrupts the consensus sequence in this region. we have studied the molecular bases of maple syrup urine disease by analyzing the activity, subunit structure, mrna sequence, and the genome of the affected enzyme. the branched chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (bckdh) activity in the patient was 4.2-4.5% of the control level. immunoblot analysis revealed that the e2 subunit of bckdh (mr 52,000) was absent and another protein band with an mr of 49,000 was present. we amplified the cdna of the e2 subunit obtained from the patient's cell using the polymerase chain reaction method, then sequenced the amplified cdna, in which a 78-bp deletion was identified. the consanguineous parents and a sister had two species of mrna; the one corresponding to the normal e2 subunit and the other with a 78-bp deletion, whereas findings in a brother were normal. the molecular size of the translation products as deduced from the abnormal mrna sequence was compatible with an abnormal protein band (mr 49,000) detected in the patient's cells by immunoblot analysis. analysis of genomic dna of bckdh-e2 subunit revealed that the 78-bp deletion in the mrna was caused by an exon skipping due to a single base deletion in the 5'-splice donor site. as a result of the mutation, part of the inner e2 core domain was omitted. the specified region of the inner e2 core domain was highly homologous to the region of the e2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. these observations imply the biological importance of the region in the inner e2 core domain of bckdh to maintain normal function of the activity.
free-tissue transfers for limb salvage utilizing in situ saphenous vein bypass conduit as the inflow. using vein grafts to bypass sclerotic and occluded arterial segments is a well-established technique in vascular surgery. for infrapopliteal bypass, autogenous veins have better patency rates than synthetic grafts. although not resolved, in situ bypasses seem to be better than reversed bypasses, especially for "far away" segments. although the etiology is not understood, it is a well-known clinical finding that sclerosis affects arteries more than the veins and, as a whole, is more advanced in lower extremities compared with the trunk and upper extremities. our experience with eight patients in whom critical soft-tissue defects were covered with free-tissue transfers in severely compromised lower extremities utilizing the in situ saphenous vein bypass as the inflow is presented. simultaneous bypass and free-tissue transfers were performed in seven and delayed free-tissue transfer was done in one. follow-up ranged from 6 months to 3 years. to date, two patients underwent amputations. five patients are able to maintain bipedal ambulation. one patient is wheelchair-bound with intact lower extremities. in well-selected patients, this procedure may offer an alternative treatment to amputation. however, because of the complexity of these combined procedures, we strongly urge careful patient selection.
popliteal artery aneurysms. long-term follow-up of aneurysmal disease and results of surgical treatment. the natural history of aneurysmal disease was analyzed in 50 patients who were treated for 71 popliteal aneurysms. no patients were lost to follow-up (mean, 5.0 years). initially, 25 popliteal aneurysms (25/71; 35%) were treated nonsurgically, and 46 (46/71; 65%) were treated surgically. complications developed in 12 of the 21 asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms (57%) and in 2 of the 4 symptomatic popliteal aneurysms (50%), which were treated nonsurgically. the probability of developing complications increased with time to 74% within 5 years. when reconstruction of a popliteal aneurysm was performed, graft patency and foot salvage were 64% and 95% at 10 years, respectively. particularly acute arterial thromboembolism was a severe presenting complication. another important finding was the development of 23 arteriosclerotic aneurysms at other locations during follow-up in 16 patients (32%). the probability of developing these new aneurysms increased to 49% 10 years after repair of the initial popliteal aneurysm. the presence of multiple isolated aneurysms at the initial examination was the most significant risk factor limiting the survival of these patients. consequently patients at risk could be identified early. this study confirms the limb-threatening potential of popliteal aneurysms when left untreated. therefore prophylactic reconstructive surgery should be undertaken. moreover, this study demonstrates that patients with a popliteal artery aneurysm have an increased risk of new aneurysm formation, both in the popliteal artery and at other locations. therefore these patients should be followed and, in the event that new aneurysms develop, should be considered for elective reconstructive surgery to prevent limb-threatening or life-endangering complications.
diagnostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in the differential diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma. the histologic and cytologic distinction of malignant mesothelioma from carcinomas metastatic to the pleura or peritoneum is often problematic. for this reason immunologic methods are being increasingly used as diagnostic adjuncts. this review summarizes 40 studies on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen in mesotheliomas and in lung and other carcinomas involving the pleura or peritoneum. carcinoembryonic antigen was identified immunohistochemically in 11% of mesotheliomas and in 84% of carcinomas examined and immunocytochemically (in serous effusions) in 4% and 58%, respectively. in serum and in pleural or ascitic fluid, significantly elevated levels of carcinoembryonic antigen are commonly associated with (lung) carcinomas but rarely with mesotheliomas. thus, together with identification of the antigen in serum, pleural fluid, or ascitic fluid, immunohistochemical and immunocytochemical techniques for detecting carcinoembryonic antigen provide a valuable aid for distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from metastatic carcinomas.
treatment of chronic moccasin-type tinea pedis with terbinafine: a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. terbinafine is an orally and topically active fungicidal drug of the allylamine series. its oral efficacy at 125 mg taken twice daily was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in moccasin-type tinea pedis. the study was conducted simultaneously in two centers and consisted of 41 evaluable cases (23 terbinafine, 18 placebo). mycologic cure and near to complete clearing of signs and symptoms were obtained in 59% of the terbinafine-treated patients after 6 weeks of treatment and in 65% at 2 weeks after treatment. corresponding efficacy for placebo-treated patients was zero at both evaluations. side effects in both groups were minimal. we conclude that terbinafine is well tolerated and highly effective in moccasin-type tinea pedis.
inhibition of dipyridamole-induced ischemia by antianginal therapy in humans. correlation with exercise electrocardiography. background. dipyridamole echocardiography test (det: two-dimensional echocardiographic monitoring with dipyridamole infusion up to 0.84 mg/kg in 10 minutes) is a useful tool for the noninvasive diagnosis of coronary artery disease. aims of the present study were to assess the effects of antianginal drugs on dipyridamole-induced ischemia and to evaluate whether drug-induced changes in det response may predict variations in exercise tolerance. methods and results. fifty-seven patients with angiographically assessed significant coronary artery disease (greater than 70% lumen reduction in at least one major coronary vessel) performed a det and an exercise electrocardiography test (eet) in random order both off treatment and on antianginal drugs (beta-blockers, calcium antagonists and nitrates, alone or in various combinations). the criterion for det positivity was a transient dyssynergy of contraction absent or of a lesser degree in the baseline examination. in det, two parameters were evaluated: the dipyridamole time (i.e., the time from onset of dipyridamole infusion to obvious dyssynergy) and the wall motion score index. det sensitivity was 91% off therapy and fell to 65% under therapy (p less than 0.01). in the 37 patients who had a positive det both off and on therapy, the dipyridamole time increased from 6 +/- 3 (off therapy) to 8 +/- 3 minutes (on therapy) (p less than 0.01). the wall motion score index at peak dipyridamole went from 1.38 +/- 0.14 to 1.31 +/- 0.14 (p less than 0.01). eet and det yielded concordant (positive versus negative) results in 41 of 57 (71%) patients off and in 35 of 57 (61%) on therapy (p = ns). in the subgroup of 38 patients with both positive det and eet without treatment, the therapy-induced variations in exercise time were significantly correlated with the variations in dipyridamole time (r = 0.5; p less than 0.01), not with variations in wall motion score index (r = 0.3; p = ns). conclusions. 1) antianginal therapy can protect from dipyridamole-induced ischemia and 2) the therapy-induced changes in det response parallel variations in exercise tolerance and might be useful for the objective, exercise-independent assessment of the therapy efficacy.
recovery profile after desflurane-nitrous oxide versus isoflurane-nitrous oxide in outpatients. thirty-eight healthy outpatients undergoing elective surgical procedures lasting 1-3 h were randomly assigned to receive either desflurane 3% (approximately 0.5 mac) or isoflurane 0.6% (approximately 0.5 mac) for maintenance of general anesthesia with nitrous oxide 60% in oxygen after a standardized induction sequence consisting of fentanyl 3 micrograms.kg-1, thiopental 4 mg.kg-1, and succinylcholine 1-1.5 mg.kg-1, intravenously. although anesthetic conditions were similar during operations in the two treatment groups, significant differences were noted in the recovery profiles as measured by elimination kinetics, psychometric testing, and visual analog scales (to assess subjective feelings). the time required for the end-tidal concentration to decrease by 50% was 2.5 +/- 0.8 min for desflurane vs. 9.5 +/- 3.4 min for isoflurane (mean +/- standard deviation [sd]). times to awakening and ability to follow simple commands were significantly shorter after desflurane than after isoflurane (5.1 +/- 2.4 vs. 10.2 +/- 7.7 min 6.5 +/- 2.3 min vs. 11.1 +/- 7.9 min, respectively). postoperatively, patients who received desflurane exhibited less impairment of cognitive function (as measured using the digit-symbol substitution test) than did those who received isoflurane. furthermore, visual analog scores indicated that patients receiving desflurane experienced significantly less discomfort (pain), drowsiness, fatigue, clumsiness, and confusion in the early postoperative period. we conclude that desflurane may offer clinical advantages over isoflurane when used for maintenance of anesthesia during outpatient surgical procedures.
accelerated non-muscle contraction after subarachnoid hemorrhage: cerebrospinal fluid testing in a culture model. the cause of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage has been studied intensively, but it is still controversial whether the observable luminal narrowing should be attributed to the contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells or whether it results from some organic change in the wall. a proliferation of myointimal cells, accompanied by increased deposition of collagen, as well as myonecrosis, have been frequently observed several days after aneurysm rupture. studies from our laboratory showed that these myointimal cells had characteristics identical to myofibroblasts. in this study, we quantitatively and morphologically examined the effect of cerebrospinal fluid on the ability of myofibroblasts to alter collagen matrices using an in vitro model. myofibroblasts contract the collagen matrix by rearranging or compacting the framework of collagen fibers. cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with recently ruptured aneurysms significantly accelerated lattice contraction, especially when the patient developed symptomatic vasospasm. this study suggests that myofibroblasts in the spastic artery can produce a contractile force that contributes to chronic vasospasm, tightening the proliferated collagen. some unknown agent present in bloody cerebrospinal fluid accelerates the rearrangement of the collagen lattice by myofibroblasts, both of which have, until now, been considered non-contractile components.
quality assurance indicators and short-term outcome of hysterectomy. fifteen gynecologic quality assurance indicators recently published by the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists were applied to a previously reported hysterectomy data base. chart reviews were performed for the most recent 257 cases in the data base, representing an 18-month interval. the indicators were divided into two groups: those intended to identify morbidity and mortality and those intended to screen for appropriateness of care. rates of actual morbidity and cases that failed to meet published criteria sets for hysterectomy were determined by chart review regardless of the presence of a quality assurance indicator. a total of 135 indicators were identified in 114 (44%) of the 257 cases, including 64 patients (25%) with morbidity indicators and 50 (19%) with appropriateness indicators. actual morbidity was correctly identified in all 64 cases in which morbidity indicators were present. three cases with significant morbidity were identified by chart review but not identified by the indicators, yielding positive and negative predictive values of 100 and 98%, respectively, and an overall accuracy of 99% for morbidity indicators. by contrast, 14 of the 50 cases in which appropriateness indicators were present actually failed to meet published criteria sets. an additional seven cases failing to meet criteria sets were identified by chart review and not identified by the indicators, yielding a positive predictive value of 28%, a negative predictive value of 97%, and an overall accuracy of 83% for appropriateness indicators.
blood contacts during surgical procedures operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact. to describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors, trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at grady memorial hospital, atlanta, ga, for 6 months. in 62 (30.1%) of 206 operations, at least one blood contact was observed. of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed, 96 (5.3%) had 147 blood contacts (133 skin contacts [90%], 10 percutaneous injuries [7%], and four eye splashes [3%]). the mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons (18.6). the frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff (mean, 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group). risk factors for surgeons' blood contacts were (1) performing a trauma, burn, or orthopedic emergency procedure (odds ratio [or], 4.1; 95% confidence interval [ci], 2.0 to 8.7); (2) patient blood loss exceeding 250ml (or, 2.1; 95% ci, 1.2 to 3.7); and (3) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour (or, 3.3; 95% ci, 1.6 to 7.1). of 110 blood contacts among surgeons, 81 (74%) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions, such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns. twenty-one (84%) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers. of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel, 20 (69%) would have been prevented by glove use. for surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact, reevaluation of surgical technique, use of appropriate barrier precautions, and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated.
tracheoesophageal anastomosis for intractable aspiration pneumonia. permanent tracheostomy and tracheoesophageal anastomosis were performed as a means of surgical intervention for the treatment of intractable aspiration pneumonia. conventional methods of tracheoesophageal anastomosis have entailed various problems. the improved method devised by us uses the special histological features and enables safe and reliable anastomosis. by this method, the tracheal perichondrium is retained and the strength of the anastomosed portion of the trachea is maintained, the failure of sutures due to tension on the anastomotic site being prevented. also, reanastomosis can be performed after the cure of primary disease.
could wallerian degeneration contribute to "leuko-araiosis" in subjects free of any vascular disorder? to determine the possible role of wallerian degeneration secondary to the grey matter neuronal loss in the pathogenesis of "leuko-araiosis", computerised tomography (ct) of the brain was studied in 98 normotensive and non diabetic subjects free of cardiac diseases: 32 with alzheimer's disease, 36 with parkinson's disease, eight with progressive supranuclear palsy, and 22 controls. in alzheimer's disease, leuko-araiosis scores were greater than in control subjects. leuko-araiosis was more prominent in anterior periventricular areas in parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy, and in posterior periventricular areas in alzheimer's disease. in two patients with alzheimer's disease and leuko-araiosis, necropsy revealed diffuse white matter pallor, mild fibrillary astrocytosis, and in one patient limited hyaline thickening of small white matter vessels, without any infarction or hypertensive change. changes were more severe in white matter close to cortical areas with a great density of neurofibrillary tangles. leuko-araiosis was more severe or more widespread in alzheimer's disease than in parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and normal ageing. differences in the location of leuko-araiosis between the four groups might be due to differences in the location of the grey matter disorder and wallerian degeneration rather than amyloid in alzheimer's disease, parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and normal ageing. wallerian degeneration might be another cause of leuko-araiosis in neuro-degenerative disorders beside previously reported extra-cerebral predisposing factors and amyloid angiopathy.
hemodialysis-associated febrile episodes: surveillance before and after major alteration in the water treatment system. surveillance for bacteremic or pyrogenic episodes associated with hemodialysis was undertaken before and after the reconstruction of the water treatment system at our university medical center. the new water system included a holding tank with iodination treatment. the water delivered to individual dialysis stations had only occasional positive bacterial cultures (3 of 21 samples before completion of construction, 2 of 16 samples afterwards) and intermittent detection of endotoxin (6 of 21 samples before completion of construction, 9 of 16 samples afterwards) at monthly sampling. among 51 individual dialysis treatments (25 patients) before reconstruction and 56 treatments (29 patients), after, only 2 and 3 febrile events were identified, respectively. all of these were associated with underlying infectious illness and not with the hemodialysis procedure itself. overall, we conclude that pyrogenic episodes associated directly with hemodialysis treatment are infrequent, and that the addition of a water storage tank with iodination treatment does not appear to increase the risk of bacteremia or pyrogenic episodes.
prognostic value of reduced heart rate variability after myocardial infarction: clinical evaluation of a new analysis method. the relation between heart rate variability, measured from standard 24 hour electrocardiogram recordings in patients convalescent after a myocardial infarction, and the occurrence of sudden death and spontaneous, symptomatic, sustained ventricular tachycardia were assessed in a consecutive series of 177 patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction and surviving to 7 days. in addition to the analysis of heart rate variability, the occurrence of non-sustained arrhythmias on 24 hour electrocardiographic monitoring, and the results of clinical assessment, signal averaged electrocardiography and ejection fraction were analysed and were related to outcome. during a median of 16 months of follow up (range 10-30 months) there were 17 end point events (11 (6.2%) sudden deaths) and six (3.4%) episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia. an index of the width of the frequency distribution curve for the duration of individual rr intervals was used to measure heart rate variability. this mean (sd) index was significantly smaller in those with end point events (16.8 (8.0)) than in those without events (29.0 (11.2)). the relative risk of the occurrence of an end point event in those with a heart rate variability index less than 25 was 7.0. multivariate analysis showed that of all the variables examined a reduced heart rate variability index was the single most powerful predictor of end point events. measurement of heart rate variability by this simple, automated, operator-independent method provided useful information on the arrhythmic propensity in patients convalescent after myocardial infarction.
ventricular tachycardia during routine treadmill testing. risk and prognosis. exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing is considered to increase risk during testing. moreover, exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia has been considered to confer a poor prognosis although this has not been specifically studied. on a retrospective review of 3351 patients who had undergone routine clinical exercise testing between september 1984 and june 1989, we identified 55 patients with exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia. the mean follow-up was 26 months (range, 2 to 58 months). fifty patients had nonsustained ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing and one of these patients died due to congestive heart failure during the follow-up period. five patients had sustained ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing and one died suddenly 7 months after the test. ventricular tachycardia was reproduced in only two of the 29 patients who underwent repeated exercise testing. ventricular tachycardia during routine clinical exercise testing occurred rarely (prevalence of 1.5%) and was not associated with complications during testing. the total mortality in the exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia group (3.6%) was not significantly different from the mortality in the entire population (5.1%). nonsustained ventricular tachycardia occurring during clinical exercise testing is not an independent marker of a poor prognosis.
effects of prostaglandin e1 on collagen diseases with high levels of circulating immune complexes. prostaglandin e1 (pge1) was administered to 4 patients with collagen diseases presenting with high levels of circulating immune complexes (cic) in sera. our study patients had progressive systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, polyarteritis nodosa, and rheumatoid arthritis. in all 4 patients, cic levels significantly decreased after administration of pge1 by continuous infusion at 10/ng/kg/min via central venous catheter for 72 h. in addition, the skin ulcer in a patient with pss healed completely, and the finger necrosis in a patient with ra improved. these results suggest that pge1 given by continuous venous infusion is effective in reducing cic, in addition to improving peripheral vascular disorders.
evolution of deep venous thrombosis: a prospective evaluation with us. forty-six patients with a diagnosis of acute deep venous thrombosis (dvt) established by means of duplex ultrasound (us) were prospectively followed up with serial duplex us examinations during a 6-month period to assess the persistence of venous abnormalities. all patients were asymptomatic. isolated popliteal dvt was found to be more likely to revert to normal at duplex compression us than thrombosis involving both the femoral and popliteal systems (p less than .05). increased venous diameter was a sign of acute clot (p less than .005). clot echogenicity did not help to enable distinction of acute dvt and chronic dvt. at compression us, 10 of 21 patients (48%) who initially had occlusive thrombosis had persistent abnormalities that mimicked findings consistent with acute dvt. chronic venous changes that persisted after 6 months consisted of either lumen recanalization (with resultant intimal thickening) or persistent venous occlusion. both of these conditions can result in incomplete compression, the major us indication of acute dvt. this appearance should not be confused with that of acute dvt. follow-up examinations to establish a baseline appearance can be obtained as early as 6 months after an acute episode of dvt.
secular trends in q wave and non-q wave acute myocardial infarction. the minnesota heart survey. the minnesota heart survey examined trends of q wave and non-q wave acute myocardial infarction (ami) using a 50% random sample of all hospital discharges of patients with ami or another acute coronary disease from 35 of 36 hospitals in 1970 and 30 of 31 hospitals in 1980 in the minneapolis-st. paul metropolitan area. a total of 1,901 and 1,864 potential ami cases were abstracted in 1970 and 1980, respectively. electrocardiograms were coded according to the minnesota code. amis were validated by computerized algorithm based on chest pain, enzymes, electrocardiograms, and autopsy. this study shows that with the use of a consistent, standard diagnostic algorithm, attack rates for q wave ami did not change significantly between 1970 and 1980 and that attack rates for non-q wave ami decreased significantly during the same decade. however, when the more sensitive cardiac enzymes creatine phosphokinase and creatine phosphokinase-mb were considered, attack rates of both q wave and non-q wave amis increased. this research documents four important trends for community ami rates that are at variance with those reported by others. there was a decline in non-q wave ami attack rates from 1970 to 1980; women had outcomes equal to or worse than those for men for both case-fatality and 7-year survival rates; patients with non-q wave amis had worse in-hospital prognoses than those with q wave amis; and 7-year survival rates were worse for q wave ami in 1980. these findings demonstrate the need for standard diagnostic criteria for q wave and non-q wave ami if trends are to be monitored. in the future, as new trials of operative and nonoperative therapies of ami are undertaken, these considerations will increase in importance.
neutrophil influx into an inflammatory site inhibited by a soluble homing receptor-igg chimaera. neutrophil-mediated inflammation is involved in a number of human clinical manifestations, including the adult respiratory distress syndrome, multi-organ failure and reperfusion injury. one way of inhibiting this type of inflammatory response would be to block competitively the adhesive interactions between neutrophils and the endothelium adjacent to the inflamed region. the lectin-containing murine adhesion molecule gp90mel, the homing receptor, is found on all leukocytic cells, including neutrophils. mel 14, a monoclonal antibody directed against this adhesion molecule, blocks lymphocyte traffic to lymph nodes and extravasation of neutrophils from blood to inflammatory sites. here we show that administration to mice of a soluble immunoglobulin chimaera containing the murine homing receptor extracellular domain significantly decreases the number of neutrophils that migrate to the peritoneum in response to the inflammatory irritant thioglycollate. these results indicate that soluble forms of a single type of adhesion molecule, the homing receptor, could be clinically effective compounds for the inhibition of neutrophil-mediated inflammation.
imaging of patients with stage d prostatic carcinoma. in conclusion, it would appear from present evidence that several statements can be made. first, mri is the most accurate method of staging the periprostatic spread of carcinoma. both the prostate and the regional nodes can be evaluated. the role of ultrasound is, at present, unclear. second, the utility of ct has diminished with the emergence of high-quality mri, but in situations in which mri scans are inconclusive (e.g., in the assessment of paraaortic node disease, in which images are degraded by peristaltic movement), ct may be useful. third, the choice of method for the assessment of nodal disease is a more difficult question. although mri and ct have replaced lymphography in most centers, the latter study, especially when combined with fine-needle aspiration biopsy, still is useful. fourth, bone metastases are best assessed with scintigraphy, which can point to areas requiring supplemental plain radiography. an mri study of the spine, although highly sensitive, is not practical. fifth, mri is superior to ct myelography in assessing spinal disease. finally, the chest radiograph is the mainstay of assessing chest involvement.
amniotic and thromboembolism. embolic phenomena in pregnancy demand rapid investigation and treatment. regardless, some patients will not survive due to the enormity of the insult. optimally, such patients should be treated in tertiary care centers, but this is not always possible.
genetic analysis as an aid in diagnosis for patients with midline carcinomas of uncertain histologies the tumors of nine patients with carcinomas of uncertain histogenesis (eight with poorly differentiated carcinomas involving primarily midline structures and one with a diagnosis of seminoma and atypical clinical features) were studied by cytogenetic and southern blot analyses. four of the eight patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas had abnormalities of chromosome 12 consistent with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor. these abnormalities comprised an i(12p) in two patients and a del(12q) in a third patient detected by cytogenetic analysis and multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis in a fourth patient. three of these four patients with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor established by genetic analysis achieved a complete response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. the tumor biopsy of one patient showed a t(11;22) (q24;q12), and this patient had chemotherapy directed to neuroepithelioma. cytogenetic analysis was unsuccessful for the tumors of three patients; these tumors did not have multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis. these patients did not respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. one patient with a diagnosis of extragonadal seminoma failed to respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy and had a second tumor biopsy performed that demonstrated a t(8;14) (q24;q32). this patient's diagnosis was changed to a non-hodgkin's lymphoma. thus, genetic analysis provided a diagnosis in six of nine patients. cytogenetic and molecular analyses are useful clinical tools for the determination of histogenesis in some patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas of uncertain histology.
the role of infection in the morbidity and mortality of patients with head and neck cancer undergoing multimodality therapy. cancer of the head and neck is a common cancer worldwide. the majority of patients present with locally advanced disease. recently a great deal of improvement has been made in multimodality therapy of this disease, warranting more careful consideration of factors affecting quality of life, disease course, and treatment. infection is clearly a factor. analysis of 662 hospital admissions of 169 head and neck cancer patients was performed. a definite infection was documented in 86 febrile episodes, pneumonia contributed to 40%, bacteremia to 13%, skin and soft tissue infection to 12%, and tracheobronchitis to 10%. among the evaluated risk factors, foreign bodies, specifically intravenous (iv) cannulae and gastrostomy tubes, race, performance status, alcohol intake, and nutritional status were statistically significant variables that predicted for or were associated with infection. infection contributed to 44% of the deaths.
methacholine challenges in the management of young children. methacholine bronchial challenges (mbcs) have been used as an important diagnostic and management tool for physicians who treat children with chronic asthma. despite this, children less than 5 years of age present significant diagnostic and management questions that can not easily be answered because of their inability to perform standard spirometry, and thus methacholine bronchial challenges. the present study was designed to evaluate with methacholine bronchial challenge small children (between 2 and 6 years of age) with the diagnosis of or a suspected diagnosis of asthma, utilizing a new method of evaluating airflow in small children through sound analysis, computer digitized airway phonopneumography (cdap). there were 23 children in the study between the ages of 2 and 6 years with suspected asthma who could not perform pulmonary function tests. a control group consisting of 12 subjects between the ages of 8 and 38 years of age with a history of chronic cough and/or wheezing who could perform pulmonary function tests was also studied. of the 12 patients over the age of 8 who had mbc, 11 of them had positive challenges with a fall in fev1 of 19% or greater. the percent change in sound intensity levels from baseline range from 232% to 396% of baseline. there was greater than 200% change in mean intensity levels with a concentration of methacholine that produced a 19% fall in fev1 in all of the eleven patients. for one individual who had a negative mbc there was only a 16% change in pulmonary function at 25 mg of methacholine with essentially no change in sound intensity level from baseline.
immunopathological response to loose cementless acetabular components. the membranes surrounding seven loose cementless acetabular implants were shown to contain polyethylene particles, birefringent in polarised light. three of these implants were made of titanium alloy and the membranes around these contained titanium particles as well. there was no metallosis around the four implants made of chromium-cobalt-steel alloy. both titanium and polyethylene particles caused migration, adherence and phagocytosis of cd11b-positive, peroxidase-negative macrophages. there were no histological signs of activation of the specific immune response; neither interleukin-2 receptor-positive activated t cells nor pca-1 plasmablasts/plasma cells were present in the tissues. in cases of simple loosening, resident mesenchymal fibroblast-like cells were active. in aggressive granulomatosis, there were many macrophages and multinucleated giant cells but little fibroblast reaction. the clinical relevance of the findings is that the use of cementless prostheses is not a guarantee against adverse tissue reactions.
mandibular involvement in oral cancer. it is difficult to predict the tumour invasion into the mandible by oral cancer pre-operatively, and consequently the decision to preserve or sacrifice the mandible is largely individualistic. the present study of 44 cases analyses the reliability of pre-operative parameters to assess mandibular involvement. clinical, radiological and scintigraphic features have been compared with the detailed histology of the bone. this study confirms the usefulness of superior marginal resections in lesions which are close to but not involving the mandible, as well as for superficial lesions which are actually seen to involve the mandible but their ct and bone scans are negative for tumour invasion.
emphysematous pyelonephritis: surgical implications. emphysematous pyelonephritis in patients with diabetes mellitus is increasingly recognised as a disease requiring urgent and aggressive treatment. we present 3 cases of emphysematous pyelonephritis; 1 patient required percutaneous nephrostomy followed by nephroureterectomy but the other 2 were successfully managed with antibiotics and control of diabetes. diagnosis was confirmed by sequential imaging techniques which demonstrated an inflammatory renal mass associated with gas and fluid.
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma. the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (hes) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl. the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema, persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia, organomegaly, interstitial lung change, and pericarditis. postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node, liver, lung, and kidney. the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma, and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma. other possible sequences are discussed. the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation.
pseudo-abscess of the psoas bursa in failed double-cup arthroplasty of the hip. seven psoas bursae filled with purulent fluid and inspissated debris were revealed at revision operations for failed resurfacing hip arthroplasties, an incidence of 5.8% in such revisions. histological and microbiological investigations demonstrated that the psoas bursa collections resulted from the tissue response to polyethylene wear debris. none was due to infection.
clinical stage 1 testicular cancer: the role of modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy. a total of 85 patients underwent modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for clinical stage i nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis from 1982 to 1989. the technique was a modified bilateral dissection via a thoracoabdominal approach. a full bilateral dissection was done above the level of the inferior mesenteric artery but unilateral dissection was performed below the inferior mesenteric artery using a template method. of the 85 patients 64 had pathological stage a and 21 had stage b1 disease. relapses have occurred in 4 of 64 stage a cancer patients (6%) and 3 of 21 stage b1 cancer patients (15%). antegrade ejaculation was preserved without pharmacological therapy in 75 of 85 patients (88%) and 5 others were converted to antegrade ejaculation with imipramine. therefore, 80 of 85 patients (94%) have recovered antegrade ejaculation. with a median followup of 38 months 7 relapses have been noted. we conclude that modified retroperitoneal lymph node dissection allows for preservation of ejaculation, decreases concern about retroperitoneal understaging and represents the preferred alternative to surveillance protocols for patients with low stage testicular cancer.
immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of postoperative recoarctation in infants and children. the purpose of this article is to present immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of aortic recoarctations following previous surgery in infants and children. during a 45-month period that ended in june 1989, nine infants and children, ages 6 months to 7 years, underwent balloon angioplasty of recoarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 52 +/- 20 mm hg (mean +/- sd) to 16 +/- 8 mm hg (p less than 0.001) and increase in coarctation segment size from 3.4 +/- 1.4 mm to 6.1 +/- 1.6 mm (p less than 0.01). none required surgical intervention. there were no significant complications. follow-up catheterization (16 +/- 7 months) data in six children and follow-up clinical (17 +/- 6 months) data in all children were available for review. both the residual coarctation pressure gradient (6 +/- 6 mm hg) and coarctation segment size (8.2 +/- 2.4 mm) remain improved (p less than 0.001) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values and the pressure gradient fell further (p less than 0.01) when compared with that measured immediately after balloon angioplasty. none developed restenosis, although one child required surgical relief of severe narrowing of isthmus of the aortic arch. none developed aneurysms. on the basis of this experience and that reported in the literature and because of high morbidity and mortality rates associated with repeat surgery for postoperative recoarctation, we recommend balloon angioplasty as the procedure of choice for relief of postoperative recoarctation with significant hypertension.
inflammatory bowel disease and tobacco smoke--a case-control study. a case-control study was carried out in stockholm, sweden between 1984 and 1987 to evaluate the association of cigarette smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke during childhood and the subsequent development of inflammatory bowel disease. information on smoking was obtained by a postal questionnaire. the relative risk of crohn's disease in current smokers compared with those who had never smoked was 1.33 (95% confidence limits 0.7; 2.6) in men and 4.99 (2.7; 9.2) in women; the corresponding results for ulcerative colitis were 0.96 (0.5; 1.8) and 0.72 (0.4; 1.4). the relative risk of ulcerative colitis in recent exsmokers compared with those who had never smoked was 2.18 (0.9; 5.0). furthermore, an increase in the risk of crohn's disease was found in those who were exposed to environmental tobacco smoke during childhood, the relative risk being 1.50 (1.0; 2.3). the corresponding relative risk of ulcerative colitis was 0.98 (0.6; 1.5).
actin architecture of cultured human thyroid cancer cells: predictor of differentiation? the actin cytoskeleton is important for cell structure and motility. a disordered actin architecture has been correlated with a high metastatic potential in melanoma, fibrosarcoma, and colon cancer models. thyrotropin is known to induce growth and differentiation in cultured thyroid cells, whereas the carcinogenic phorbol ester 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (tpa) causes dedifferentiation and malignant transformation in many cell lines. we therefore assessed the effect of thyrotropin and tpa on the actin architecture of ftc-133 human follicular thyroid cancer cells in continuous culture. staining of filamentous actin with rhodamine phalloidin showed that 1 mu/ml or 30 mu/ml thyrotropin-induced actin polymerization was detectable at 1 hour but more notable at 24 hours. similarly tpa (0.008 to 10 mumol/l) caused rapid actin fiber disruption and redistribution to the cell periphery. secondary antibody staining for alpha-actinin, a protein that binds and crosslinks actin, was more prominent after treatment with thyrotropin but decreased after tpa. these findings indicate that the actin cytoskeleton has a dynamic response to trophic factors. thyrotropin promoted actin polymerization, but tpa caused depolymerization. these effects may correlate with cellular alpha-actinin levels. actin architecture may therefore reflect the state of differentiation of thyroid tumor cells.
the influence of age vs peak serum concentration on life-threatening events after chronic theophylline intoxication. to identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic, unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication (serum theophylline concentration, greater than or equal to 167 mumol/l after protracted use). the median age of the sample was 47.5 years (range, 4 days to 91 years). median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/l, with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/l. a life-threatening event (lte) occurred in 28 patients (39%) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22. the median peak (theophylline) of patients who had an lte vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/l. however, the median age of patients with an lte compared with those without an lte was significantly greater (70.5 vs 18.0 years). stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of lte with advancing years: patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of lte than patients less than 25 years old (95% confidence interval, 3.56, 77.5) despite comparable intergroup median serum (theophylline). these data suggest the primary determinant of ltes after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age. elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of lte than younger patients. peak serum theophylline concentration cannot predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an lte. finally, these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients.
a pilot study of suramin in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. suramin sodium is an aromatic polysulfonated compound that was originally introduced as an antiparasitic agent in the 1920s. recently, in view of its ability to bind and disrupt the function of multiple growth factors and cellular enzyme systems, the authors have been evaluating the role of suramin as an antitumor agent. in this study, 12 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received parenteral suramin by continuous infusion to a peak plasma suramin level greater than 200 micrograms/ml. no objective radiographic responses were observed, although greater than 90% necrosis of multiple tumor sites was documented at autopsy in one patient and normalization of tumor-related hypercalcemia occurred in another patient. two patients had stable disease of 10 and 28 weeks' duration, respectively. significant toxicities included hypotension related to sepsis and resulting in renal insufficiency (one patient), development of liver function abnormalities (one patient) marked thrombocytopenia (one patient), prothrombin time prolongation (all patients), vortex keratopathy (two patients), and grade 1 sensory neuropathy (two patients). on the basis of the current results, suramin does not appear to be an active single agent against metastatic renal cell carcinoma when administered by this dosing schedule.
intraventricular diamorphine via an ommaya shunt for intractable cancer pain. we describe two patients in whom diamorphine was administered into the intraventricular space via an ommaya reservoir, producing excellent pain relief. the use of this technique for long term administration of analgesia is reviewed.
translocation (9;22) is associated with extremely poor prognosis in intensively treated children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the prognostic implications of t(9;22)(q34;q11) were assessed at a median follow-up of 3.5 years in 434 children receiving intensive treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). four-year event-free and overall survivals were 81% and 88%, respectively, in 419 children lacking t(9;22), but were 0% and 20%, respectively, in 15 children with t(9;22) (p less than .001). poor outcome for children with t(9;22)-positive all was particularly notable because we have reported improved survival in other historically poor prognosis all cytogenetic categories when treated with similarly intensive therapy. we recommend that very intensive treatment approaches, including bone marrow transplantation in first remission, be considered for all children with t(9;22)-positive all.
crohn's disease of the lung two years after developing colonic crohn's disease, a 17 year old boy presented with focal pulmonary consolidation. a lung biopsy specimen showed areas of non-caseating epithelioid granuloma. although some respiratory abnormalities appear to be associated with inflammatory bowel disease, granulomatous disease affecting the lung has not previously been reported in a child.
intrathoracic nissen fundoplication: long-term clinical and ph-monitoring evaluation. from 1976 until april 1989, 31 intrathoracic total fundoplications were performed for reflux esophagitis and irreducible hiatus hernia. in the first 16 patients (group 1) the operation was complicated with acute perforation of the wrap in 4 cases, bronchogastric fistula in 1, and herniation of the wrap higher in the chest in 1. technical modifications were applied to 15 more recent patients (group 2). these are enlargement of the hiatus, looseness of the wrap and its appropriate anchorage, avoidance of forceps when handling the stomach, care with the vagi, and efficient gastric decompression in the postoperative period. the postoperative course was always uneventful in group 2. twenty-six patients, who still have their initial wrap, were considered for clinical evaluation: 11 from group 1 (mean follow-up, 81.5 months) and 15 from group 2 (mean follow-up, 32.8 months). all are free from any symptom of reflux; gas-bloat syndrome is infrequent and dysphagia is relieved. twenty-four-hour ph monitoring, performed in 14 patients (3 from group 1 and 11 from group 2) (mean follow-up, 42 months), was normal in 13; a pathological upright reflux (time ph less than 4, 8.4%) was demonstrated in one symptom-free woman in whom endoscopy was unremarkable. mechanisms of complications experienced in group 1 are analyzed in the light of the technical evolution of the procedure, and the place of the intrathoracic total fundoplication in the management of short esophagus is defined, considering the other available surgical techniques.
current results of elective aortic reconstruction for aneurysmal and occlusive disease. decisions to resect small aortic aneurysms or employ non-operative treatment for aorto-iliac occlusive disease must depend on current rather than historical surgical results. to assess current morbidity and mortality, we reviewed 200 consecutive aortic resections in two groups of patients treated from 1981 to 1989: those undergoing elective aortofemoral bypass for occlusive disease (afb, no. 100) or resection of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (aaa, no. 100). indications for afb included claudication (54%), rest pain (32%), and gangrene (13%). aaa size ranged from 3 to 14 cm (mean 6.5 +/- 2.4 cm); 45% presented with abdominal or back pain. patients undergoing afb were younger (afb 61.5 +/- 10 years vs aaa 68.7 +/- 8.9 years) with a higher incidence of some atherosclerotic risk factors, diabetes mellitus 30% vs 10%, tobacco use 77% vs 49%, hyperlipidemia 21% vs 7%; p less than 0.001). coronary artery disease (cad) was more prevalent in aaa patients (49% vs 34%; p less than 0.001). postoperative mortality was not different in occlusive or aneurysmal disease (3% afb vs 2% aaa), nor was the occurrence of serious complications such as myocardial infarction (2% vs 1%) or pulmonary embolism (2% vs 3%). improvements in patient selection, perioperative care and surgical technique have lowered the mortality of elective aortic surgery. given the current standard of care, an aggressive approach to aaa even in high risk patients is appropriate. the low morbidity of afb for occlusive disease mandates a critical appraisal of less effective nonoperative therapies.
ptychotropism as a cutaneous feature of the child syndrome. the hallmark of the child syndrome is a unilateral ichthyosiform nevus that displays a pronounced affinity for the body folds. for this phenomenon the term ptychotropism is proposed. the expression is composed from the greek words ptyche (fold) and trope (a turning). it is concluded that the cutaneous lesions of the child nevus are determined by two factors, lyonization and ptychotropism. the phenomenon of ptychotropism constitutes an additional argument to distinguish the child nevus from the inflammatory linear verrucous epidermal nevus because the latter is not ptychotropic.
very low birth weight children: behavior problems and school difficulty in a national sample we addressed three questions concerning the behavioral and academic status of low and very low birth weight infants through a secondary analysis of the 1981 national health interview survey--child health supplement: (1) in children born with very low birth weight, what is the risk of behavior problems and school difficulty compared with that in heavier low birth weight and normal birth weight children? (2) what are the correlates of school difficulty? (3) are behavior problems associated with school difficulty when variables are controlled for these correlates? the analysis revealed that 34% of very low birth weight children could be characterized as having school difficulty, compared with 20% and 14% of the other groups, respectively, and that they were more likely to have higher scores on the hyperactive subscale of the behavior problems index. although a broad array of sociodemographic factors correlated with school difficulty, very low birth weight and hyperactivity scores contributed independently to the risk of academic problems. we conclude that very low birth weight infants are at risk of having school problems that are in part associated with hyperactive behavior.
results of surgical treatment of kidney cancer with solitary metastasis to contralateral adrenal. a large series of patients were reviewed in two major teaching institutions, and patients with a carcinoma of the kidney with a solitary metastatic deposit in the contralateral adrenal were identified. their survival was analyzed and compared with the survival of those patients having a solitary metastatic deposit in other organs.
queuine, a trna anticodon wobble base, maintains the proliferative and pluripotent potential of hl-60 cells in the presence of the differentiating agent 6-thioguanine. 6-thioguanine (6-tg)-induced differentiation of hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (imp: pyrophosphate phosphoribosyltransferase, ec 2.4.2.8)-deficient hl-60 cells is characterized by 2 days of growth, after which morphological differentiation proceeds. addition of the trna wobble base queuine, in the presence of 6-tg, maintains the proliferative capability of the cells. the ability of 6-tg to induce differentiation correlates with c-myc mrna down-regulation, but queuine has no effect on this parameter. treatment with 6-tg for 2-3 days commits hl-60 cells to granulocytic differentiation, and, once committed, these cells do not respond to the monocytic inducer phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. nonetheless, when cells are treated with queuine and 6-tg, they maintain the promyelocytic morphology and are capable of being induced down the monocytic pathway by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate as indicated by stabilization of c-fms mrna and cell adherence. in the absence of queuine, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate is incapable of inducing monocytic markers in the 6-tg-treated cells. the data presented indicate that 6-tg-induced differentiation of hl-60 cells is a trna-facilitated event and that the trna wobble base queuine is capable of maintaining both the proliferative and pluripotent potential of the cells.
vasopressin-related bullous disease of the legs. we report a 33-year-old man who developed cutaneous necrosis of the lower extremities with extensive bulla formation after i.v. administration of vasopressin for the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices. due to its potent nonselective vasoconstrictive action, vasopressin not only may induce cardiac and gastrointestinal ischemia, but cutaneous ischemia as well. as in our patient, this may lead to extensive necrotic skin lesions at sites distant from the infusion.
the relationship of intraluminal shunting to technical results after carotid endarterectomy. this study evaluates the incidence of defects on the intraoperative angiograms of 160 carotid endarterectomies performed in 146 patients, 81 of 160 (50.6%) with a shunt and 79 of 160 operations (49.4%) performed without a shunt. angiographic defects were identified in 34 of 160 carotid endarterectomies (21%), of which 21 of 34 (65%) resulted in a greater than 20% stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ica). there were defects in 6 of 81 (7.4%) shunted vessels compared to 16 of 79 (20%) of those not shunted (p less than 0.05). thirty-one vessels were reexplored 11 of 81 (13.5%) of those shunted and 20 of 79 (20%) of those not shunted (p less than 0.05). there were four strokes (2.5%) (2 in each group) and one death due to myocardial infarction (0.6%) in the postoperative period. duplex follow-up from 1-60 months (median 22 months) was available in 114 of 160 (71%) endarterectomies. a stenosis of greater than 50% was detected in 7 of 114 (6%) carotid arteries; 5 of the 7 (71%) were shunted and 2 (29%) were nonshunted. unrepaired defects were present in 3 of 7 (43%) and no defects in the remaining 4 of 7 (57%) arteries. we conclude that the use of a shunt significantly decreases the number of ica defects detected angiographically and that immediate revision of demonstrable defects can be undertaken with low morbidity and does not predispose the patient to recurrent stenosis.
endoscopy in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal mycobacterium avium-intracellulare infection. two cases of mycobacterium avium-intracellulare (mai) infection in association with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) are presented to highlight the distinctive upper gastrointestinal endoscopic appearances: 2 x 4 mm diameter, white nodules with intervening erythema and hemorrhagic erosions covered the mucosa of the second part of the duodenum. histological evaluation of these nodules revealed diffuse expansion of the lamina propria by macrophages that contained numerous intracellular and extracellular acid-fast organisms. we conclude that endoscopy with endoscopic biopsy may represent the most rapid and sensitive diagnostic tool available in this disease.
portacaval shunt as an experimental model of impaired hepatic release of vitamin a in liver disease. vitamin a concentrations in serum and liver were studied in rats with a portacaval shunt for 48 days after shunt surgery. in addition, serum and tissue concentrations of zinc were analyzed. following portacaval shunting serum vitamin a concentration decreased to 25% of the level in sham-operated controls, whereas serum zinc concentration decreased to 80%. the mean urinary excretion rate of zinc increased in shunted rats [18.7 +/- 2.1 micrograms/day (0.28 +/- 0.03 mumol/day)] compared with controls [13.8 +/- 1.7 micrograms/day (0.21 +/- 0.03 mumol/day)] (p less than 0.01). the concentration of retinol and total retinoids in liver tissue increased 2-3-fold in rats with a portacaval shunt, and the ratio of retinol to retinoids was slightly increased. the differences were reduced when the total organ content was calculated, because of the reduced liver weight in the shunted rats. the concentration of zinc in liver tissue decreased in rats with portacaval shunts [30.8 +/- 4.9 micrograms/g wet wt (0.47 +/- 0.07 mumol/g) vs. 35.6 +/- 3.7 micrograms/g wet wt (0.54 +/- 0.06 mumol/g) in controls; p less than 0.01]. the concentration of zinc was inversely correlated with retinol (r = -0.52, p less than 0.05) and total retinoid levels (r = -0.70, p less than 0.05) in rats with portacaval shunts but not in controls. the data are consistent with the hypothesis of an impaired release of vitamin a from the liver in rats with portacaval shunts, an impairment that could be due to liver zinc deficiency.
role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury of the rabbit lung. reactive oxygen species are a major cause of damage occurring in ischemic tissue after reperfusion. during reperfusion transitional metals such as iron are required for reactive oxygen species to mediate their major toxic effects. xanthine oxidase is an important source of reactive oxygen species during ischemia-reperfusion injury, but not in all organs or species. because cytochrome p-450 enzymes are an important pulmonary source of superoxide anion (o2-.) generation under basal conditions and during hyperoxia, and provide iron catalysts necessary for hydroxyl radical (.oh) formation and propagation of lipid peroxidation, we postulated that cytochrome p-450 might have a potential role in mediating ischemia-reperfusion injury. in this report, we explored the role of cytochrome p-450 enzymes in a rabbit model of reperfusion lung injury. the p-450 inhibitors 8-methoxypsoralen, piperonyl butoxide, and cimetidine markedly decreased lung edema from transvascular fluid flux. cimetidine prevented the reperfusion-related increase in lung microvascular permeability, as measured by movement of 125i-albumin from the vascular space into lung water and alveolar fluid. p-450 inhibitors also prevented the increase in lung tissue levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive products in the model. p-450 inhibitors did not block enhanced o2-. generation by ischemic reperfused lungs, measured by in vivo reduction of succinylated ferricytochrome c in lung perfusate, but did prevent the increase in non-protein-bound low molecular weight chelates of iron after reperfusion. thus, cytochrome p-450 enzymes are not likely a major source of enhanced o2-. generation, but serve as an important source of iron in mediating oxidant injury to the rabbit lung during reperfusion. these results suggest an important role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury to the lung and suggest potential new therapies for the disorder.
depression in dementia of the alzheimer type and in multi-infarct dementia. the authors used the hamilton rating scale for depression and a rating of depressed mood to investigate the prevalence of depression in 55 patients with alzheimer's disease, 37 patients with multi-infarct dementia, and 30 nondemented comparison subjects. the prevalence of depressed mood depended on the severity of dementia as measured by the mini-mental state examination and was significantly lower among patients in more severe stages of alzheimer's disease but not among patients with severe multi-infarct dementia.
chronic blood hyperviscosity in subjects with acute stroke, transient ischemic attack, and risk factors for stroke. the origin and significance of blood hyperviscosity in subjects with acute stroke has been controversial. it has been argued that viscous abnormalities simply reflect either elevated hematocrit or an acute-phase response to the stroke itself. to address these issues, we measured the factors that determine blood viscosity in a cross-sectional study of 430 subjects, including 135 with acute stroke, 89 with acute transient ischemic attacks of the brain, 115 with recognized risk factors for stroke, and 91 healthy controls. the at-risk group was balanced with the acute stroke group for types of risk factors and medication usage, and all four groups were balanced for age. the viscosity of whole blood at low rates of shear and the plasma viscosity were significantly elevated in both groups with cerebrovascular symptoms and in the at-risk group compared with the healthy controls. the severity of hyperviscosity was stroke group greater than transient ischemic attack group greater than at-risk group greater than healthy controls. increased viscosity of whole blood was associated with an elevated plasma fibrinogen concentration and with a decreased albumin/globulin ratio. this study provides evidence that blood hyperviscosity is present not only in subjects with acute brain infarction, but also in those with risk factors for stroke, and that these abnormalities are, to a considerable degree, chronic.
fourth branchial pouch anomaly. we present an extremely rare case of fourth branchial fistula in a 23-year-old male. the characteristic clinical feature was a recurrent left lower neck abscess which did not respond to appropriate medical and surgical therapy. radiography and a computed tomographic scan with contrast material revealed a fistula running from the apex of the left pyriform sinus (internal opening) to the left lower neck abscess. the fistula tract was excised surgically. histological examination of the excised fistula revealed a squamous epithelial lining and subepithelial lymphoid tissue. this pyriform sinus fistula is thought to be of fourth pharyngeal pouch origin, because of its surgical aspects and the histological findings of the excised fistula.
botulinum toxin therapy. botulinum toxin therapy has emerged as a treatment modality for a variety of spastic- or contracture-related muscle diseases. its safety has been proven for long-term use in the treatment of benign essential blepharospasm, hemifacial spasm, and certain types of strabismus. recent approval from the federal drug administration should make botulinum toxin available for use in a greater number of patients.
thermography as a predictor of prognosis in cancer of the breast. although thermography is generally considered to lack sufficient sensitivity to be a useful in diagnosis of cancer of the breast, the association of a thermal abnormality with some breast cancers cannot be discounted. breast cancers demonstrating such a thermographic abnormality have been reported to be associated with decreased survival when compared with patients with no such change. in a study of 214 patients confirmed to have breast cancer without distant metastases, 121 were found to have a thermographic abnormality. patients whose tumors were thermographically abnormal had significantly larger primary lesions and a higher proportion of metastatic axillary lymph nodes. however, both the 5-year survival and the 5-year disease-free survival were not significantly different from patients who had no thermographic abnormality.
endophthalmitis after removal of an encircling band. a case of endophthalmitis following the removal of an encircling band is presented. a possible route of entry in the absence of scleral perforation during the procedure is proposed.
the growing teratoma syndrome. thirteen patients with metastatic non-seminomatous germ cell tumours and enlarging metastases consisting of teratoma differentiated only were identified. patients were managed with surgical resection soon after the growing lesions were documented. surgical morbidity was minimal and 12 patients are alive (10 are disease-free) at a median follow-up of 28 months.
intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia: case report. a case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described. intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event. a review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients. no other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia.
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping. case report. intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection. a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids.
diagnosis of oral hairy leukoplakia by ultrastructural examination of exfoliative cytologic specimens. lingual exfoliative cytologic specimens (scrapings) were obtained from 18 patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus with clinical oral hairy leukoplakia. buccal mucosal scrapings were obtained from 12 of these patients. the specimens were processed for examination by transmission electron microscopy (tem). sixteen (89%) of the lingual specimens revealed infection of keratinocytes by herpes-type virus. there was no evidence of virus infection in the 12 buccal mucosal scrapings. fungal hyphae were seen by tem in 14 (78%) of the lingual scrapings and two (17%) of the buccal scrapings. one exfoliative specimen and two biopsy specimens were stained for epstein-barr virus dna with a dna probe. the demonstration of herpes-type virions by tem in keratinocytes from a lesion clinically suspected to be hairy leukoplakia provides direct, objective diagnosis. furthermore, use of exfoliative cytologic specimens provides a clinically simple, noninvasive technique.
role of basic fibroblast growth factor in vascular lesion formation. in the present study we investigated whether basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf) plays a role in the proliferative response of smooth muscle cells (smcs) to denuding injury. rat carotid smooth muscle was found to express the mrna for bfgf, and bfgf protein was found to be present in rat aorta by immunoblot analysis. systemically administered bfgf was a potent mitogen for vascular smcs in arteries denuded with a balloon catheter, increasing replication from 11.5% in controls to 54.8%. denudation with a device (filament loop), which causes only minimal damage to medial smcs, showed a similar increase in replication (1.3% versus 43.3%) after bfgf infusion. in unmanipulated vessels, however, smcs were unresponsive to infused bfgf. infusion of a "mitotoxin" (bfgf conjugated to saporin) caused a greater than 50% decrease in the number of viable smcs in the arterial wall after balloon injury. prolonged administration of bfgf (12 micrograms/day for 2 weeks) after balloon injury caused an approximately twofold increase in intimal thickening. these results show that bfgf, which is synthesized by the arterial wall, could be a potent mitogen for smcs in vivo and suggest that any release of endogenous bfgf may be capable of stimulating smc proliferation, which may subsequently lead to intimal lesion formation.
immunization and protection against malaria during murine pregnancy. normal and immune mice were evaluated for their ability to resist infection to the rodent malaria parasite, plasmodium yoelii, during pregnancy. parasitemia levels were slightly higher and time-to-death shorter in the nonimmunized pregnant group infected with virulent parasites relative to virgin controls. subinoculation experiments revealed that numerous virulent organisms were present in the placentas of unprotected gravida but were absent from the fetal livers of their conceptuses. it was also found that mice preimmunized with irradiated p. yoelii survived a usually lethal challenge infection during mid-gestation and delivered healthy newborns. associated with this protection against transplacental spread of parasites was the additional key finding that placental macrophages were as effective as peritoneal exudate cells in phagocytosing parasite derived material in vitro. this murine malaria-pregnancy model should provide new insights on the various factors (virulence, immunogenicity) of microbial infections affecting the fetal-maternal relationship, as well as on the expression of immune effector mechanisms and immunoregulation, during the reproductive process.
occupational distribution of inflammatory bowel disease among german employees. previous reports have shown that both crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis affect people in white collar occupations associated with higher income and higher social class more frequently than other groups in the population. this study sought to carry these analyses one step further and investigate the distribution of inflammatory bowel disease by individual occupations. the german social security statistics for 'rehabilitation' were used to assess the occupational distribution of crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. from 1982 to 1988, a total of 12,014 people were granted rehabilitation as a result of inflammatory bowel disease. low male prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease was found among bricklayers, road construction workers, unskilled workers in brick and stone, unskilled labourers, and security personnel. low rates were found among women employed in cleaning and maintenance, and in those without occupation. in contrast, a high male prevalence was found among instrument makers, electricians, bakers, and technical assistants. among female employees, inflammatory bowel disease was significantly associated with sales representatives, office workers, health occupations, and hairdressers. these associations were found in the complete data for 1982-8 as well as in the separate data for the two half periods 1982-5 and 1986-8. highly significant correlations between the occupational distribution of crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis were found among both male and female employees. it seems that occupations involving work in the open air and physical exercise are protective, while being exposed to air conditioned artificial working conditions or extended and irregular shift working confer a risk of contracting inflammatory bowel disease.
effect of dietary calcium on colon carcinogenesis induced by a single injection of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine in rats. the purpose of this study was to determine if high levels of dietary calcium could inhibit the induction of colon tumors in rats injected with a single dose of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (dmh). rats were given a single subcutaneous injection of dmh (200 mg/kg body weight) 2 wk before they were fed purified diets containing 5% fat and four different levels of calcium (as calcium gluconate). after 8 mo, the following incidences of colon tumors (total) were seen: 0.2% ca, 56%; 0.5% ca [national academy of sciences/national research council (nas/nrc) recommended level], 75%; 1.0% ca, 61%; 2.0% ca, 41%. thus, rats fed calcium at levels above or below the nas/nrc recommendation had lower tumor incidences. the total tumor incidence and the incidence of adenocarcinomas (with or without invasion) were not significantly affected by calcium, but the incidences of benign adenomatous polyps and of distal colon tumors were significantly affected. autoradiographic examination of [3h]thymidine-treated rats revealed that the level of calcium did not significantly alter the cell kinetic indices in the distal colon. in the proximal colon, however, the 0.2% ca group had a significantly larger proliferative zone, with significantly more labeled cells present at the bottom of the colon crypt. mineral analysis of tibias and serum samples revealed that rats fed higher levels of calcium had lower bone fe and serum mg contents, but no significant trends were seen for ca, p, zn or cu. therefore, increasing or decreasing the calcium content above or below the nas/nrc recommendation (supplemented to low fat diets) during the promotional phase of colon carcinogenesis altered the tumor incidence, but the effect was confined to the distal colon and to benign adenomatous polyps.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with l-tryptophan ingestion. the association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and l-tryptophan is now well established. we describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids. when massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy, surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness. a discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented.
fertility-sparing treatment of patients with ovarian cancer. the variety of malignant neoplasms produced by the ovary are legion. each must be considered individually in the young woman with early disease who wishes to preserve her childbearing capability. the risks of conservative surgery are often low, and the patient can be so advised. careful monitoring of this group of patients is essential regardless of the approach.
liver transplant for metastatic neuroendocrine tumor. generally, the results of liver transplantation for metastatic liver disease have not been favorable. one exception has been the unique group of neuroendocrine tumors, the slow growth of which allows liver transplantation to effectively palliate and control symptoms. we report two cases: (a) a 51-year-old man who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and resection of the pancreatic primary tumor for a nonfunctioning malignant neuroendocrine tumor with features of both carcinoid and islet-cell glucagonoma remains symptom-free and without evidence of tumor recurrence at 13 months follow-up. (b) a 47-year-old man who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and whipple resection for a metastatic islet-cell tumor in the head of the pancreas is fully recovered at 5 months follow-up.
the effects of sucralfate suspension and diphenhydramine syrup plus kaolin-pectin on radiotherapy-induced mucositis. a prospective, double-blind study compared the effectiveness of sucralfate suspension with diphenhydramine syrup plus kaolin-pectin in reducing severity and pain of radiation-induced oropharyngeal mucositis. fourteen patients who received at least 4600 cgy to the oral cavity used one of the mouth rinses four times a day, beginning at 1600 cgy. data were collected on daily perceived pain and helpfulness of mouth rinse, weekly mucositis grade, weight change, and interruption of therapy. analysis of data revealed no statistically significant differences between the two groups in any parameter. a retrospective review of 15 patients who had received at least 4600 cgy radiation to the oropharynx but had not used a daily mouth-coating rinse, was compared with the study group. comparison of the two groups suggested that consistent daily oral hygiene and use of a mouth-coating agent will result in less pain and may reduce weight loss and interruption of radiation because of severe mucositis.
respiratory arrest in near-fatal asthma background and methods. the majority of asthma-related deaths occur outside the hospital, and therefore the exact factors leading to the terminal event are difficult to ascertain. to examine the mechanisms by which patients might die during acute exacerbations of asthma, we studied 10 such patients who arrived at the hospital in respiratory arrest or in whom it developed soon (within 20 minutes) after admission. results. the characteristics of the group were similar to those associated in the literature with a high risk of death from asthma, including a long history of the disease in young to middle-aged patients, previous life-threatening attacks or hospitalizations, delay in obtaining medical aid, and sudden onset of a rapidly progressive crisis. extreme hypercapnia (mean [+/- sd] partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide, 97.1 +/- 31.1 mm hg) and acidosis (mean [+/- sd] ph, 7.01 +/- 0.11) were found before mechanical ventilation was begun, and four patients had hypokalemia on admission. despite the severe respiratory acidosis, no patient had a serious cardiac arrhythmia during the resuscitation maneuvers or during hospitalization. we observed systemic hypertension and sinus tachycardia in eight patients, atrial fibrillation in one, and sinus bradycardia in another. in both patients with arrhythmia the heart reverted to sinus rhythm immediately after manual ventilation with 100 percent oxygen was begun. the median duration of mechanical ventilation was 12 hours, and all patients had normocapnia on discharge from the hospital. conclusions. we conclude that at least in this group of patients, the near-fatal nature of the exacerbations was the result of severe asphyxia rather than cardiac arrhythmias. these results suggest that undertreatment rather than overtreatment may contribute to an increase in mortality from asthma.
orbital volume augmentation with adjustable prefabricated methylmethacrylate subperiosteal implants. prefabricated right and left subperiosteal implants were used in nine anophthalmic sockets to correct superior sulcus deformities. the advantages of these implants include increased stability, easy insertion under direct visualization and the possibility of easy retrieval if necessary, and custom modification for volume and shape intraoperatively, with the addition of methylmethacrylate. there were no extrusions, implant migrations, or infections. complications included mild undercorrection, upper eyelid blepharoptosis, and transient ectropion.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan: muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients. muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas. there was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients. in the 2 sickest patients, there was profound muscle atrophy, affecting both muscle fiber types.
bone lysis in well-fixed cemented femoral components. we have reviewed 25 cases of focal femoral osteolysis in radiographically stable, cemented femoral implants. in three hips retrieved at post-mortem from two patients, we have been able to make a detailed biomechanical and histological analysis. the interval between arthroplasty and the appearance of focal osteolysis on clinical radiographs ranged from 40 to 168 months, and in over 70% of the cases this did not appear until after five or more years. few had significant pain and there was no relation to age, sex or original diagnosis. the most common site for osteolysis were gruen zones 2 and 3 on the anteroposterior radiograph and zones 5 and 6 on the lateral radiograph. in 15 cases (60%), the area of osteolysis corresponded to either a defect in the cement mantle or an area of very thin cement. the rate of progression of these lesions was variable, but to date only one has progressed to gross loosening of the femoral component. the back-scatter scanning electron microscopic examination of serial sections and biomechanical testing of the post-mortem specimens demonstrated focal cement fracture around implants that were otherwise rigidly fixed. in eight cases from which tissue was available, histology showed a histiocytic reaction with evidence of particulate polymethylmethacrylate. we consider that this local fragmentation was the stimulus for local osteolysis in an otherwise stable cemented femoral component.
hippocampal sclerosis in temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging. the value of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of hippocampal sclerosis has been controversial. we studied 10 patients aged 22.5 +/- 6.0 years with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy selected because of a history of a prolonged childhood convulsion, which is characteristic of a group of patients in whom hippocampal sclerosis is a constant finding. all 10 patients showed reduction in size of one hippocampus associated with increased signal intensity on t2-weighted magnetic resonance images. these changes were reliably detected on coronal spin-echo images, perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampus. appreciation of the normal imaging anatomy of the hippocampus allowed correct interpretation of the relative changes in signal intensities of the hippocampus and adjacent temporal horn on sequential echo images. the side of the abnormal hippocampus on magnetic resonance imaging accorded with the electroencephalographic localization in all 10 patients, and with the lateralization of the early convulsions in all 6 patients where this was known. temporal lobectomy was performed in all 10 patients. hippocampal sclerosis was confirmed in the 3 patients in whom hippocampal tissue was available for histological examination. the value of this technique was reinforced by the excellent postoperative results, with 80% being seizure free at a mean follow-up time of 33 +/- 4 months.
retroperitoneal mobilization of the vas deferens in the complex vasovasostomy. anatomic distances along retroperitoneal, inguinal, and infrainguinal segments of the vas deferens were measured in 14 formalin fixed cadavers and in 15 recently postmortem males. there were no significant differences in segment lengths between the two groups nor between the right and left vasa. data from the recent postmortem group reveals a mean length of 5.83 +/- .65 cm to be gained from retroperitoneal mobilization of the vas deferens. this information is important to surgical decisions in cases of microsurgical repair of obstructive azoospermia resulting from damage to the inguinal segment of the vas deferens. data on other vasal segment lengths is beneficial for planning repair in other complex cases of obstructive azoospermia as well.
ten years' experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. up to january 1989, 171 patients were trained at our center on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd), and 17 on continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis (ccpd). over 10 years, we have gained 5,068 patient-months experience. patient survival was 60% and 31% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. in contrast, diabetics had a survival of 32% at 5 years. major complications included 499 new episodes of peritonitis, 304 exit-site infections, 22 hernias, five bowel perforations, one hydrothorax, and three episodes of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis. our technique survival has been 62% and 40% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. we believe that capd is a viable dialysis technique for long-term treatment of chronic renal failure and it should be offered as an option to intermittent hemodialysis.
ontogenetic features of audiogenic seizure susceptibility induced in immature rats by noise. although numerous models are currently used for systematic study of the mechanisms of epileptogenesis in mature brain, few animal models have been developed that allow similar explorations in the developing nervous system. one experimental model of epilepsy supports a premise that perinatal experience can lead to eventual seizure susceptibility, however. audiogenic seizure (ags) susceptibility can be induced during a critical developmental period in normal mice by auditory deprivation and therefore by cochlear trauma. we studied the developmental parameters that affect success of both induction and testing of ags-susceptibility in the rat. intense high-frequency noise exposure was used as the traumatizing agent. the wistar rat strain used is inherently seizure-resistant because in greater than 400 trials, untreated rats have never exhibited susceptibility at any age. although single prolonged exposures to high-intensity noise were administered to groups of rats at ages between postnatal days (pnds) 12 and 36, pnd 14 was the age when exposure was most likely to result in eventual seizure susceptibility. furthermore, duration of initial exposure on pnd 14 determined the rate of susceptibility when measured 2 weeks later. accordingly, we noted that single noise exposures at an intensity of 125 db and ranging between 6 and 10 min in duration induced susceptibility in 100% of rats tested on pnd 28; nonetheless, seizures among the rats exposed for 8 min were the most severe. typically, these seizures began as wild running attacks and were followed by tonic/clonic convulsions.
response of oral leukoplakia to beta-carotene. leukoplakia is associated with increased risk of oral cancer and is considered a premalignant lesion. retinoids, particularly 13-cis retinoic acid, can frequently reverse leukoplakia. however, these drugs have considerable toxicity and are not suitable for large-scale use in the prevention of oral cancer. beta-carotene is a naturally occurring, nontoxic carotenoid with biologic properties that suggest that it might be efficacious against oral leukoplakia. in 1986, we began a randomized study of 13-cis retinoic acid (1 mg/kg/d) versus beta-carotene (30 mg/d) in leukoplakia. however, owing to the marked differences in toxicity between the two compounds outlined in the consent form, 11 of the initial 16 eligible patients refused to participate unless they were "guaranteed" beta-carotene. therefore, the study design was changed to a phase ii trial of beta-carotene in which the compound was given daily for 3 months. responding patients were continued for another 3 months of treatment. all lesions were examined histologically at entry. responses were monitored by bidimensional measurements and photography done at entry, then monthly while on treatment and at study completion. twenty-four evaluable patients were treated, and 17 had major responses (two complete, 15 partial), a response rate of 71% (95% confidence limits, 53% to 89%). there was no significant toxicity requiring drug discontinuation or dose reduction. these results indicate that beta-carotene has substantial activity in oral premalignancy. because of its lack of toxicity, it is an excellent candidate for a preventive agent for oral cancer.
nitrous oxide does not exacerbate pulmonary hypertension or ventricular dysfunction in patients with mitral valvular disease using the rapid-response thermistor pulmonary artery catheter and transoesophageal echocardiography, this study examined the effects of 100 per cent oxygen, 70 per cent nitrous oxide/30 per cent oxygen, and 70 per cent nitrogen/30 per cent oxygen on the pulmonary circulation and ventricular function in ten patients with pulmonary hypertension. in comparison with baseline measurements, nitrous oxide administration resulted in small but statistically significant (p less than 0.05) changes in mean arterial pressure (76 +/- 14 to 67 +/- 12), mean pulmonary arterial pressure (37 +/- 14 to 33 +/- 13 mmhg), and cardiac output (3.7 +/- 1.4 to 3.2 +/- 1.1 l.min-1). seventy per cent nitrogen resulted in no significant changes from baseline. the repeat 100 per cent oxygen measurements were nearly identical to the nitrous oxide measurements. it is concluded that nitrous oxide does not exacerbate pulmonary hypertension or ventricular dysfunction during high-dose fentanyl anaesthesia in patients with mitral valvular disease.
gastric epithelium in the duodenum: its association with helicobacter pylori and inflammation. duodenal biopsy specimens from 471 adults and 47 children were examined to determine the prevalence and distribution of gastric epithelium in the duodenal bulb in relation to age, gender, gastroduodenal inflammation, smoking, alcohol and consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaid). gastric metaplasia was present in the anterior wall duodenal biopsy specimen in 31%, was significantly less common in patients under 17 than in adults, and was more common in males than females. in sixty two adults who underwent multiple radial duodenal biopsy gastric metaplasia was randomly distributed around the duodenal circumference; sixty three per cent of the patients with gastric metaplasia found on multiple biopsy were detected by just the anterior biopsy. gastric metaplasia was not obviously associated with alcohol, cigarette, or nsaid consumption. while the presence of gastric metaplasia was associated with adulthood, male sex, and low fasting gastric juice ph, its extent was associated with active duodenitis and helicobacter-associated gastritis. on logistic regression, gastric metaplasia in the duodenum and gastric helicobacter pylori were independent predictors of active duodenitis, but were not significantly associated with inactive duodenal inflammation. h pylori was observed in duodenal biopsy specimens from 32 patients, all with active duodenitis; bacteria were present only on foci of gastric metaplasia, and were more likely to be seen when the metaplasia was extensive. it is proposed that inflammatory injury to the duodenal mucosa by h pylori may stimulate the development of further gastric metaplasia, and that the area of duodenum susceptible to colonisation with h pylori may therefore increase progressively until mucosal integrity is compromised and ulceration supervenes.
palliation of malignant esophageal obstruction. progressive dysphagia is common in patients with advanced esophageal carcinoma. multiple nonsurgical techniques are available to provide palliation and improved nutrition. simple dilatation is the oldest technique and newer methods may offer greater efficacy. laser therapy now provides an excellent opportunity to treat obstructing tumors. placement of an esophageal prosthesis may become particularly useful when dilatation must be performed too frequently or has become ineffective or in the patient with an esophageal-pulmonary fistula. newer techniques including bicap tumor probe, intracavitary radiotherapy, or absolute alcohol injection offer promise. this review discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these different palliative techniques for patients with the extremely poor prognosis associated with esophageal cancer.
nutritional approach to cancer prevention with emphasis on vitamins, antioxidants, and carotenoids. the main human cancers are associated with complex life-style related causative, enhancing, and inhibiting factors. tobacco smoking or chewing exposes humans to genotoxic carcinogens and to promoting substances. likewise, western dietary traditions involve certain carcinogens and promoters, whereas oriental traditions implicate other carcinogens and promoters. importantly, in virtually all situations regular intake of fruits and vegetables appreciably lowers the risk of cancer. this paper reviews the causes of the main human cancers and analyzes the mechanisms of the protective effects of fruits and vegetables. prevention of human cancer requires the definition of optimal levels of recommended daily allowances of micronutrients.
thromboxane receptor blockade prevents pulmonary hypertension induced by heparin-protamine reactions in awake sheep we used competitive thromboxane a2-prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor blockade (sq 30,741) as a probe to evaluate the role of thromboxane in ovine pulmonary vasoconstriction associated with protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation. control heparin-protamine reactions induced rapid release of thromboxane into arterial plasma (more than 1 ng/ml plasma), a 2.5-fold increase of pulmonary artery pressure, a 20% decrease of pao2, and a 30% reduction in arterial white blood cell concentration. after giving sq 30,741 despite similar thromboxane release into arterial plasma after heparin-protamine challenge, acute pulmonary hypertension was significantly reduced when 94% of pulmonary vascular smooth muscle thromboxane receptors were occupied with sq 30,741 (p less than 0.01 at 1 minute after protamine versus control heparin-protamine reaction) and was completely abolished by a 10 mg/kg i.v. bolus (p less than 0.0001 at 1 minute after protamine versus control). peripheral leukopenia was not affected by sq 30,741 prophylaxis, but hypoxemia was prevented. we conclude that thromboxane causes pulmonary vasoconstriction in ovine heparin-protamine-induced pulmonary hypertension. pulmonary vasoconstriction and hypoxemia can be completely prevented by thromboxane receptor blockade.
hypoxic acidemia, hyperviscosity, and maternal hypertension do not affect the umbilical arterial velocity waveform in fetal sheep. the effect of hypoxic acidemia, hyperviscosity, and maternal hypertension on the umbilical arterial velocity waveform was studied in 23 chronically catheterized fetal sheep. fetal hypoxic acidemia induced by lowering the maternal inspired oxygen concentration (n = 7) caused no change in the ratio of systolic/diastolic blood velocity even when fetal arterial ph was as low as 6.8. fetal blood hyperviscosity (n = 7) induced by exchange transfusion with packed maternal blood cells increased placental vascular resistance by greater than or equal to 50% but had no significant effect on the systolic/diastolic ratio. similarly, maternal hypertension induced by intravenous infusion of angiotensin ii to the ewe (n = 9) did not affect the systolic/diastolic ratio despite a 50% increase in maternal arterial blood pressure. we conclude that umbilical arterial velocity waveform abnormalities observed in growth-restricted human fetuses are probably not a direct result of fetal hypoxemia or hyperviscosity or maternal hypertension.
the effects of generation and gender on the joint distributions of lipid and apolipoprotein phenotypes in the population at large. the generation and gender effects on the joint distributions of total plasma cholesterol (total-c), ln triglycerides (lntrig), hdl-cholesterol (hdl-c), ldl-cholesterol (ldl-c), apolipoproteins ai (apo ai), aii (apo aii), and e (lnapo e) were studied in 184 male grandparents (mgp), 242 female grandparents (fgp), 237 male parents (mp), 235 female parents (fp), 202 male children (mc), and 200 female children (fc). homogeneity of variance tests revealed that lipid variances were gender and/or generation specific while apolipoprotein variances were homogeneous across strata. in the absence of heterogeneity of variance, significant heterogeneity in ldl:lntrig and lntrig:apo aii covariation was found between genders in the parental generation. in the presence of heterogeneity of variance, significant heterogeneity of correlation between genders and/or across generations was found for the hdl-c:ldl-c, total-c:ldl-c, total-c:lntrig, lntrig:ldl-c, total-c:lnapo e and hdl-c:lnapo e bivariate distributions. analyses of principal components revealed that the generation and gender specific cohorts have similar eigenvalues but distinct eigenvectors for the first two principal components underlying the seven dimensional lipid and apolipoprotein distribution. we conclude that the amount of variability explained by the first two principal components is the same across cohorts but how the interindividual variability is distributed among the lipid and apolipoprotein traits is generation and gender specific. this study documents the role that variance and covariance might play in determining risk of disease for special subgroups of the population at large. it also demonstrates how variances and covariances between risk factors traits characterize life processes of aging and sexual dimorphism. this study argues that future biometrical genetic and epidemiological studies of coronary artery disease must take into account age and gender effects on interindividual variability and covariability of risk factors.
progressive hemolytic anemia due to delayed recognition of a beall mitral valve prosthesis. in addition to a working knowledge of general complications such as thromboembolism and infective endocarditis, optimal care of the patient with a prosthetic valve requires specific knowledge concerning the characteristics of a given patient's prosthesis. this may need to include the ability to identify the valve roentgenographically when history and records are unavailable. a 53-year-old woman with mitral stenosis secondary to rheumatic heart disease and status post a reported bjork-shiley mitral valve (mv) replacement 17 years prior to hospital admission was referred for evaluation of severe hemolytic anemia. previous cinefluoroscopy in 1986 at the time of a cerebrovascular accident revealed a normally functioning caged disc prosthesis and not the tilting disc of a bjork-shiley prosthetic valve. the valve was not further characterized and she continued receiving warfarin therapy until may 1989 when she presented with laboratory findings showing a marked hemolytic anemia with a hemoglobin of 6.5 mg/dl and lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) value of 2100 iu. echocardiography revealed normal valvular function without evidence of perivalvular leak. the patient was referred for further evaluation with chest roentgenogram at the time of hospital admission revealing a valve configuration characteristic of the beall model 103/104 series that has been found to manifest progressive disc variance with a high degree of hemolytic anemia (despite normal noninvasive evaluation of mv function), disc tilting with intermittent regurgitation, and catastrophic disc embolization in extreme cases. the precise identification of valvular prosthesis in patients after valve replacement is crucial for optimal management. as in our case, the mere identification of a particular valve may necessitate certain management and therapy based on the natural history of that valve. in the absence of reliable history and/or records, the roentgenographic examination should lead to the precise identification.
concurrent intradural and extradural meningiomas of the cervical spine. a case of an extradural spinal meningioma presenting with a separate intradural meningioma at the same cord level is reported. review of the english literature on spinal epidural meningiomas reveals a high incidence of concurrent intradural tumors in patients with epidural meningiomas. this leads to the conclusion that the intradural space should be evaluated carefully when an epidural meningioma is encountered.
differential regulation of human immunodeficiency viruses (hivs): a specific regulatory element in hiv-2 responds to stimulation of the t-cell antigen receptor. the human immunodeficiency viruses (hivs) types 1 and 2 have similar genetic organization but differ significantly in nucleic acid sequence. although infection by either agent leads to symptoms of immunodeficiency, recent studies suggest potential differences in the time course and severity of these diseases. in this report, the transcriptional regulation and induction of these retroviruses were analyzed. we report that the regulation of hiv-2 differs from that of hiv-1: a distinct t-cell activation pathway, triggering of the cd3 component of the t-cell receptor complex, stimulates hiv-2 but not hiv-1 gene expression. the response to t-cell receptor stimulation in hiv-2 is mediated partly by an upstream regulatory element, termed cd3r, which is recognized by a sequence-specific dna binding protein, nf-cd3r. jurkat t leukemia cell lines containing hiv-2 provirus also showed increased viral replication after stimulation of the t-cell receptor complex, in contrast to hiv-1. these findings suggest that transcriptional regulation and induction of hiv-2 differ from hiv-1 and raise the possibility that different cofactors contribute to the activation of hiv-1- and hiv-2-associated aids.
interstitial chemotherapy with drug polymer implants for the treatment of recurrent gliomas. malignant gliomas have been difficult to treat with chemotherapy. the most effective agent, bcnu (carmustine), has considerable systemic toxicity and a short half-life in serum. to obviate these problems, a method has been developed for the local sustained release of chemotherapeutic agents by their incorporation into biodegradable polymers. implantation of the drug-impregnated polymer at the tumor site allows prolonged local exposure with minimal systemic exposure. in this phase i-ii study, 21 patients with recurrent malignant glioma were treated with bcnu released interstitially by means of a polyanhydride biodegradable polymer implant. up to eight polymer wafers were placed in the resection cavity intraoperatively, upon completion of tumor debulking. the polymer releases the therapeutic drug for approximately 3 weeks. three increasing concentrations of bcnu were studied; the treatment was well tolerated at all three levels. there were no adverse reactions to the bcnu wafer treatment itself. the average survival period after reoperation was 65 weeks for the first dose group, 64 weeks for the second dose group, and 32 weeks for the highest dose group. the overall mean survival time was 48 weeks from reoperation and 94 weeks from the original operation. the overall median survival times were 46 weeks postimplant and 87 weeks from initial surgery. eighteen (86%) of 21 patients lived more than 1 year from the time of their initial diagnosis and eight (38%) of 21 patients lived more than 1 year after intracranial implantation of the polymer. frequent hematology, blood chemistry, and urinalysis tests did not reveal any systemic effect from this interstitial chemotherapy. since the therapy is well tolerated and safe, a placebo-controlled clinical trial has been started. the trial will measure the effect of the second treatment dose on survival of patients with recurrent malignant glioma.
angiosarcoma of the uterus: a case report. we are reporting a case of angiosarcoma of the uterus in which the diagnosis was confirmed ultrastructurally by demonstration of weibel-palade bodies in the tumor cells. only 10 cases of this entity have been previously documented in the literature.
the impact of right ventricular infarction on the prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias during acute inferior myocardial infarction. to determine the impact of rv infarction on the prevalence and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias during inferior ami, 57 patients with no prior mi were studied by 24-hour holter monitoring on the first and tenth days of ami. based on radionuclear studies, patients were allocated into two groups: (1) group a, 21 patients (37 percent) with normal rvef (greater than or equal to 40 percent); and (2) group b, 36 patients (63 percent) with depressed rvef (less than 40 percent). there were no significant differences between the groups regarding age and lvef. values of rvef were 47 +/- 6 percent and 31 +/- 6 percent, respectively (p less than 0.05). the rvef had no influence on the prevalence and complexity of early and late arrhythmias. stratification of patients in group b into two subgroups based on the extent of rv dysfunction did not reveal any differences in the occurrence of all forms of ectopy (when both groups were matched to group a). therefore, patients with inferior ami, with or without rv infarction, have a similar prevalence of arrhythmias. ventricular ectopic beats may be related to the severity and spread of lv involvement, rather than to rv dysfunction.
dose dependency of time of onset of radiation-induced growth hormone deficiency. growth hormone (gh) secretion during insulin-induced hypoglycemia was assessed on 133 occasions in 82 survivors of childhood malignant disease. all had received cranial irradiation with a dose range to the hypothalamic-pituitary axis of 27 to 47.5 gy (estimated by a schedule of 16 fractions over 3 weeks) and had been tested on one or more occasions between 0.2 and 18.9 years after treatment. results of one third of the gh tests were defined as normal (gh peak response, greater than 15 mu/l) within the first 5 years, in comparison with 16% after 5 years. stepwise multiple linear regression analysis showed that dose (p = 0.007) and time from irradiation (p = 0.03), but not age at therapy, had a significant influence on peak gh responses. the late incidence of gh deficiency was similar over the whole dose range (4 of 26 gh test results normal for less than 30 gy and 4 of 25 normal for greater than or equal to 30 gy after 5 years), but the speed of onset over the first years was dependent on dose. we conclude that the requirement for gh replacement therapy and the timing of its introduction will be influenced by the dose of irradiation received by the hypothalamic-pituitary axis.
rectal carcinoma: ct staging with water as contrast medium. computed tomography (ct) was used to study 42 patients with rectal carcinoma. water was used as a contrast medium for studying the local extent of tumor in all patients. scans were read prospectively without knowledge of the histologic staging and then compared with pathologic specimens. ct depicted the tumor in all patients. comparison of ct and histologic results (following the dukes classification) showed that disease was correctly staged as a in three of four patients, as b in eight of 12, as c in 15 of 17, and as d in nine of nine. overall, carcinoma was correctly staged with ct in 35 of 42 patients (diagnostic accuracy, 83.3%). the accuracy in the assessment of local invasion was 97.6% (41 of 42). in the detection of lymph node involvement, the accuracy was 78.6% (sensitivity, 88%; specificity, 64.7%). ct is recommended in the preoperative staging of rectal carcinoma and as an aid in choosing the appropriate therapy. the use of water enema and complete distention of the rectum are reliable techniques for improving the accuracy of ct in the assessment of local invasion by cancer.
diarrhea. diarrhea is one manifestation of gi disturbance. symptoms may be acute if caused by such things as infections, drug reactions, alterations in diet, heavy metal poisoning, or fecal impaction. chronic diarrhea is a symptom of gi diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome, lactase deficiency, cancer of the colon, inflammatory bowel disease, and malabsorption diseases. chronic diarrhea may also be associated with gi surgery, radiation therapy, laxative abuse, alcohol abuse, and chemotherapeutic agents. when interventions are required to deal with diarrhea, they may include such things as alteration in tube feeding products and methods of administration, fluid replacement by oral rehydration procedures, a rapid return to feeding, and education aimed at the health information clients need to prevent or control the symptom of diarrhea.
traumatic asphyxia. during a 5-year period, we treated 14 cases of traumatic asphyxia. there were 12 male and 2 female patients ranging in age from 2 to 32 years. most suffered crushing injuries at work or were run over by motor vehicles. mild to severe cervicofacial cyanosis and petechiae developed in all patients. a fear response was reported by 12 of the patients. subconjunctival hemorrhage was also found in 12 patients. nine patients had tachypnea and 7 complained of dyspnea. most of the patients suffered some associated injuries including 8 head injuries, 7 pulmonary contusions, and 6 cases of blunt abdominal trauma. less-associated injuries were rib fractures, brachial and radial nerve injuries, hemothorax, and pneumothorax. the hospital stay ranged from 4 to 28 days (mean, 14 days) and follow-up from 10 to 60 months (mean, 32 months). treatment for traumatic asphyxia included measurement of arterial blood gases, oxygen supplementation, and intubation with mechanical ventilation. the patients' recovery conditions were relative to the severity of injury and the associated injuries.
extracapsular cataract surgery with lens implantation in diabetics with and without proliferative retinopathy in a retrospective study we have examined all diabetics (66 operated eyes) and an equal number of non-diabetic matched controls who underwent extracapsular cataract extracation (ecce) with intraocular lens (iol) implantation over a two-year period ending in december 1987. of the diabetic patients' 76% eyes improved by at least two lines of snellen acuity postoperatively. of these patients 68% eyes and of the control eyes 83% achieved an acuity of 6/12 or better. in the diabetics the visual outcome depended on the state of the retinopathy and in particular the maculopathy. the diabetic group had a greater incidence of postoperative inflammation, but the major complications were related to continuing neovascularisation. early postoperative laser photocoagulation may help to prevent these proliferative complications, and, provided a large, adequate capsulotomy is performed for capsular thickening, the presence of an iol does not interfere with this photocoagulation. we also advise early postoperative assessment, and treatment if necessary, of any maculopathy. diabetic retinopathy should no longer be regarded as a contraindication to intraocular lens insertion.
national institute of mental health longitudinal study of chronic schizophrenia. prognosis and predictors of outcome [published erratum appears in arch gen psychiatry 1991 jul;48(7):642] we performed a longitudinal study of chronic schizophrenic patients who were hospitalized for research purposes at the national institute of mental health (nimh) intramural program in the 1970s and early 1980s. we assessed present course, outcome and predictor data from the initial cohort of 58 young chronic schizophrenic patients who were followed up for 2 to 12 years following their nimh index hospitalization. at follow-up, the sample showed substantial functional impairment and levels of symptoms with only about 20% of the sample demonstrating a good outcome. in addition, strong intercorrelation was noted among the symptom and functioning indexes at follow-up. moreover, neuropsychologic tests of frontal cortical functioning were significantly correlated with outcome levels of negative symptoms and social functioning but not with levels of positive symptoms. during the period from the index hospitalization to the follow-up assessment, 78% of the sample suffered a relapse, 38% attempted suicide and 24% had episodes of major affective illness. furthermore, levels of positive and negative symptoms ascertained when patients received optimal neuroleptic treatment during the index hospitalization significantly predicted outcome levels of symptoms and functioning and time spent hospitalized during the follow-up period. in contrast, levels of index positive and negative symptoms ascertained during the drug-free state did not predict outcome symptoms or functioning. these data suggest that treatment response is a critical predictor variable. we examined the implication of these data for the course of illness in schizophrenics.
the effect of diaper type and overclothing on fecal contamination in day-care centers [published erratum appears in jama 1991 jun 5;265(21):2810] fecal coliform contamination of environmental surfaces and hands in the day-care center is common. this study evaluated the effect of two diaper types on fecal contamination. ten rooms in four day-care centers containing 141 children were studied in a prospective, randomized, crossover study. a total of 2946 samples were cultured during the 9-week study. fecal coliforms were isolated from 307 inanimate objects (15%), 73 toy balls (46%), and 131 hands (17%). the number of contaminated inanimate objects was significantly less in rooms where paper diapers were worn when compared with that in rooms where double cloth diapers with plastic overpants were worn and in rooms where clothes were worn over diapers. inanimate object cultures had more contamination in rooms in which diarrhea had occurred. containment of feces by overclothes and diaper type may be important in decreasing transmission of enteric pathogens in day-care environments.
cytologic patterns in juice from human pancreatic transplants: correlation with histologic findings in the graft. in 19 patients who had undergone pancreatic transplantation with temporary exteriorization of the pancreatic juice, graft tissue became available for histologic examination. in these patients the cytologic patterns in the pancreatic juice were compared with the histologic findings in the graft specimens. in five samples the diagnosis by cytologic studies was rejection. acute rejection was confirmed in all the histologic specimens. in eight cytologic samples, graft pancreatitis was suspected because of the increased amounts of neutrophils, degenerating cells, epithelial cells, monocytes, and some macrophages, with or without necrotic tissue fragments. all eight histologic specimens showed findings characteristic of pancreatitis. in three cytologic samples, bacteria or fungi were observed. histologic examination of these patients showed graft pancreatitis. in four patients the cytologic findings were normal. graft histologic factors were normal in two instances. in one of these grafts there was graft pancreatitis, and in one graft chronic vascular rejection was seen. our study shows that two different pathologic events occurring in the pancreatic graft (i.e., acute rejection and pancreatitis) are reflected by characteristic changes in pancreatic juice cytology.
tests of eeg localization accuracy using implanted sources in the human brain. the accuracy with which electrical sources in the brain can be localized by using electroencephalograms measured on the scalp is not well known. in this study, tests of localization accuracy were performed by using implanted dipolar sources in the human brain. these dipoles are created by passing a weak (subthreshold) current through intracerebral electrodes implanted in the brains of epileptic patients for seizure monitoring. the locations of these dipoles are accurately known from roentgenographs. first, 16 electroencephalograms produced by these dipoles were recorded, then inverse solutions were calculated for the apparent sources of these electroencephalograms. finally, the locations of the apparent sources were compared with the known locations of the implanted dipoles to determine localization error. the average localization error for a total of 28 dipoles in 3 subjects was 1.1 cm. these results indicate that good localization accuracy for focal sources in the brain can be provided by scalp electroencephalograms.
erythrocyte stearic acid desaturation in patients with colorectal carcinoma. the erythrocyte stearic:oleic acid ratio (saturation index) was investigated as a means of differentiating between control subjects (n = 146) and patients with benign (n = 48) and malignant (n = 117) colorectal disease and patients undergoing postoperative follow-up after curative resection (n = 49). erythrocyte fatty acid profiles were determined by gas liquid chromatography. neither age, sex, dukes' stage, nor degree of differentiation of the tumors had a significant effect on the erythrocyte saturation index. the erythrocyte saturation index was lower in patients with primary and recurrent colorectal cancer compared with control subjects and patients with inflammatory bowel disease or benign colonic polyps (p less than 0.0001). the erythrocyte saturation index was not found to be useful in the postoperative follow-up of these patients. using both saturation index and age as a means of differentiating between patients with primary colorectal cancer and control subjects gave a sensitivity of 67 percent and a specificity of 81 percent.
septic streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis. we describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to streptococcus milleri. in both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology. surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case. longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery. despite confused nomenclature streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity.
dysgeusia, gustatory sweating, and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma. facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors, both during their development and after excision, may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways. the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components. this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma. she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area. occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed. in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses, evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae.
effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on lung vascular permeability and resistance. the effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on pulmonary vascular permeability and resistance was studied in 25 isolated blood-perfused dog lungs. vascular permeability, assessed by determining filtration coefficient (kf), and vascular resistances were measured at the beginning and end of the experiment. ischemia reperfusion was produced by occluding blood flow to the lung for 3 h and reperfusing for 1 h, whereas hypoxia reoxygenation was obtained by ventilating the lung with 95% n2-5% co2 for 3 h and then ventilating with 95% o2-5% co2 for 1 h with no interruption of perfusion. there was a significant increase in kf in both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation groups (51 and 85%, respectively), and total vascular resistance increased greatly in both groups (386 and 532%, respectively). two additional groups were also studied in which the ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation lungs were pretreated with allopurinol (20 micrograms/ml). the kf did not significantly increase in either the allopurinol ischemia reperfusion or the allopurinol hypoxia reoxygenation groups (22 and 6%, respectively). however, total vascular resistance significantly increased in both groups (239 and 224%, respectively). although vascular permeability is modestly increased by both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation, the predominant change in these conditions is the increased vascular resistance, which predominantly affects the postcapillary resistance and would result in a greater tendency for edema to develop in these slightly damaged lungs. allopurinol, which inhibits xanthine oxidase, attenuated the permeability changes in both groups and may be useful in preventing ischemia reperfusion injury in certain conditions.
medical treatment and prevention of peptic ulcer disease. many agents seem to be equally effective for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. this is true despite the drugs' varied mechanisms of action, and this observation has caused investigators to shift their focus from aggressive to defensive factors when studying ulcer pathogenesis. patients with a healed ulcer are always at risk for recurrence, and guidelines are available for management of these patients. ulcer prevention becomes a crucial issue in intensive care units where critically ill patients have many known risk factors. maintaining a gastric ph above 4.0 appears to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with such stress-induced ulcers. use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increases ulcer risk and complications in the elderly, in women with rheumatoid arthritis, and in smokers and abusers of alcohol. prophylaxis with the synthetic prostaglandin analogue misoprostol (cytotec) appears to reduce this risk.
essential tremor: clinical correlates in 350 patients. to study the demographic and clinical correlates of essential tremor (et), we analyzed a comprehensive database of 350 patients evaluated at the movement disorders clinic at baylor college of medicine from 1982 to 1989. the age at onset of tremor showed bimodal distribution for both male and female patients, with peaks in 2nd and 6th decades. et appeared most frequently in hands, followed by head, voice, tongue, leg, and trunk. half of the patients (47%) had associated dystonia, including cervical dystonia, writer's cramp, spasmodic dysphonia, and cranial dystonia, and 20% of the patients had associated parkinsonism. at least one 1st-degree relative of 62.5% of et patients reported tremor. alcohol relieved tremor in 2/3 of et patients. sixty-eight percent of patients who had adequate follow-up improved with propranolol, and 72% with primidone. there was no significant difference in various clinical variables between the 219 patients with familial et and 131 with sporadic et. patients with early-onset et were more likely to have hand involvement and associated dystonia than patients with late-onset et. dystonia was more frequently associated with mild et than with severe et. patients with low-frequency tremor were older and had more head but less hand involvement than patients with high-frequency tremor. the lack of relevant differences between et subgroups suggests that, despite variable expression, et represents a single disease entity.
transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. the perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia (svt) is discussed. vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the svt. since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position, it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of svt. transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the svt and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables. the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating svt in the newborn are discussed.
noninvasive cerebral optical spectroscopy for monitoring cerebral oxygen delivery and hemodynamics. objective: to present an algorithm for noninvasive measurement of cerebral oxygen saturation (cerebral oximetry) and cerebral hemodynamics with near infrared spectroscopy. design: in vitro correlation of oximetry measurements with reference measurements; illustrative cases of hemodynamic and oximetric recordings. setting: tertiary care neuroscience icu. patients: brain-injured patients with a prolonged, decreased level of consciousness chosen as illustrative examples. interventions: two-channel multiple wavelength diffuse infrared transmission spectroscopy was interfaced with the scalp using adhesive. transmission data were collected with gross superficial-to-deep spatial resolution. saturation calculation based on the deep signal was observed longitudinally in the patient. with the same technology, arterial input and cerebral response functions, generated by iv tracer bolus, were deconvoluted to measure mean cerebral transit time. measurements and main results: a positive linear regression fit between diffuse transmission oximetry and measured blood oxygen saturation over the range 23% to 99% (r2 = .98, p less than .001) was noted. conclusions: the approach used overcomes previously identified difficulties with cerebral oximetry, and demonstrates excellent in vitro correlation. the technique can be performed clinically without difficulty. a simultaneous measure of mean cortical transit time is possible.
pelvic pain: lessons from anatomy and physiology. pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department. for physiologic reasons, pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ, and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize. on the other hand, differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis. the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain, and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation, ischemia, or colic. a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain.
developmental dyslexia in women: neuropathological findings in three patients. brains from male cases with dyslexia show symmetry of the planum temporale and predominantly left-sided cerebrocortical microdysgenesis. we now report on three women with dyslexia. in all brains, the planum temporale was again symmetrical. also, in two of the brains, multiple foci of cerebrocortical glial scarring were present. in both women, many of the scars were myelinated, suggesting origination during late intrauterine or early postnatal life. in one, scars were mainly left perisylvian and involved portions of the vascular border zone of the temporal cortex. in the other, scars were more numerous and occurred in the border zone of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries symmetrically. all three cases showed to a variable extent brain warts, molecular layer ectopias, and focal architectonic dysplasia identical to those seen in the male cases. two women had primary brain neoplasms, an oligodendroglioma and a low-grade astrocytoma, respectively, and two women showed small angiomas. reexamination of previously reported male cases disclosed one with myelinated glial scars. two control brains with asymmetrical plana temporale showed myelinated glial scars as well. the significance of the anatomical findings is discussed, and possible etiological factors are considered with known effects of autoimmune diseases on the nervous system.
cardiac catheterisation with 5 french catheters. from the beginning of november 1987 to the end of january 1989, 526 coronary arteriograms and left ventricular angiograms were performed with 5 french coronary catheters. in 448 (85%) patients diagnostic pictures were obtained with three standard types of 5 french catheters (no 4 judkins): that is, left coronary, right coronary, and pigtail catheters. in 60 patients (11.4%) various other 5 french catheters were required to complete the study. in nine patients (1.7%), a 7 or 8 french catheter was used. major complications causing cardiac arrest or requiring urgent operation developed in five patients. sixty two patients (11.77%) had minor complications that required sublingual nitrates or a single bolus of atropine, or developed a haematoma that did not need intervention or had a mild reaction to the contrast material. complications of moderate severity developed in 17 patients (3.2%): severe chest pain, arrhythmia requiring a temporary pacemaker, contrast reaction associated with hypotension, haematoma requiring blood transfusion, or a transient ischaemic episode. there were no deaths. 5 french catheters were used for routine coronary angiography and left ventriculography in 98.3% of patients. there were no major complications related to femoral artery puncture. the routine use of 5 french coronary catheters should increase the feasibility of safe coronary angiography in outpatients and should reduce the cost of this investigation.
benzodiazepine tranquilizers and the risk of accidental injury. to determine whether benzodiazepine tranquilizers increase the risk of accidental injury requiring medical attention, we used pharmacy claims submitted to a large third-party payer to identify 4,554 persons who had been prescribed these agents and a matched control group of 13,662 persons who had been prescribed drugs other than benzodiazepines. we then used diagnoses recorded on claims submitted by medical care providers to identify all accident-related care received by these persons during three months before their first-observed prescription for a benzodiazepine or nonbenzodiazepine agent, respectively, and six months subsequently. we found accident-related care was more likely among persons who had been prescribed benzodiazepines; among these persons, the probability of an accident-related medical encounter was higher during months in which a prescription for a benzodiazepine had recently been filled compared to other months; and persons who had filled three or more prescriptions for these agents in the six months following initiation of therapy had a significantly higher risk of an accident-related medical event than those who had filled only one such prescription. approximately two-fold risks of accident-related care were found, after controlling for age, sex, and prior utilization.
clinical experience with the medtronic-hall valve prosthesis. medtronic-hall valves were implanted during 204 procedures performed between 1982 and 1988. mean population age was 54.4 years; 96% of patients were in new york heart association functional class iii or greater. emergency operations constituted 16% of the procedures. rheumatic heart disease was the single most common indication for valve replacement. in 18% of patients, operation was performed to replace a previous prosthetic valve. the mean follow-up was 3.2 years. overall operative mortality was 10.3%, the highest mortality being for double-valve replacements (24%). valve-related mortality, by position, was 5.3% for aortic valves, 6.0% for mitral valves, and 4.0% for multiple-valve replacements. actuarial 5-year freedom from events were: survival, 68%; thromboembolism, 90%; prosthetic valve endocarditis, 98%; paravalvular leak, 95%; and reoperation, 92%. complications with the highest mortality were thromboembolism (36%) and endocarditis (33%). the complication rates in this series are high but the patients were more severely ill than in other reports, and operative survivors experienced a considerable improvement in new york heart association functional class.
ischemic colitis. an ever-changing spectrum? ischemic colitis, or more properly colonic ischemia, became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years. yet, early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task. a 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors' previous experience and with data from the literature. several important factors emerge: (1) twice as many cases occurred after operations (34% in this series vs. 16% in the past), probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized. (2) sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent, while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent. seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died. a high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient, as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients. moreover, the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis, as well as monitoring of the "at-risk" patient, is needed for improvement in survival to occur. new monitoring methods, such as tonometry, may help accomplish this goal.
noninvasive detection of patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular fibrillation. abnormalities in the fast fourier transforms of signal-averaged electrocardiograms (ecgs) obtained during sinus rhythm appear to distinguish patients with ischemic heart disease and sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from those without ventricular tachycardia. this study was performed to determine the power of frequency analysis to detect patients with a history of ventricular fibrillation, to determine the extent to which spectra of signal-averaged ecgs from patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease are comparable and to compare results of signal-averaged ecg analysis in patients with ventricular fibrillation with results of programmed ventricular stimulation. signal-averaged ecgs were obtained during sinus rhythm from 60 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia (group i) and 34 patients with ventricular fibrillation (group ii). results of signal-averaged ecg analysis were abnormal in 92% of patients with ventricular tachycardia and 85% of patients with ventricular fibrillation (p = ns). abnormal spectra were detected in the signal-averaged ecgs from 90% of patients with ischemic and from 86% of patients with nonischemic heart disease (p = ns). in contrast, the results of programmed stimulation differed markedly between the two patient groups. sustained ventricular arrhythmias were induced in 91% of the patients with ventricular tachycardia compared with only 46% of those with ventricular fibrillation (p less than 0.0001). moreover, ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 81% of patients with ischemic heart disease compared with only 50% of those with nonischemic heart disease (p less than 0.02). thus, abnormalities in the spectra of signal-averaged ecgs were found in the majority of patients with ventricular fibrillation and were detectable even in those whose arrhythmia was not inducible by programmed stimulation. these results broaden the potential clinical application of noninvasive interrogation of signal-averaged ecgs to include the prospective identification of patients with ischemic or nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
omeprazole in h2 receptor antagonist-resistant reflux esophagitis. we conducted a retrospective review of 25 patients with severe reflux esophagitis treated with omeprazole because of failure of h2 receptor antagonists to heal their esophagitis. prior to beginning omeprazole (40 mg/day), all patients were on h2 antagonists for at least 9 months and still had endoscopic evidence of longitudinal (grade ii) or circumferential (grade iii) distal esophageal ulceration. omeprazole therapy brought about complete endoscopic healing in 24 of 25 patients (96%). twenty-three of 24 healed patients were then restarted on h2 antagonists as maintenance therapy. repeat endoscopy was performed if symptoms recurred. fourteen of 24 patients (58%) had recurrence of endoscopic esophagitis documented between 26 and 300 days from the time of starting maintenance therapy. two of these 14 patients opted for antireflux surgery, whereas the remaining 12 were once again given omeprazole, which again resulted in symptom resolution in all patients. these data suggest that most patients with h2 receptor antagonist-resistant ulcerative esophagitis cannot be successfully maintained on h2 antagonists even after the ulcers have been healed with omeprazole. further studies are required to determine the role of omeprazole compared to other treatments in the long-term maintenance therapy of these patients.
the molecular genetic basis of glanzmann thrombasthenia in the iraqi-jewish and arab populations in israel. glanzmann thrombasthenia is an autosomal recessive bleeding disorder characterized by a decrease or absence of functional platelet glycoprotein (gp) iib-iiia (alpha iib beta 3) integrin receptors. although thrombasthenia is a rare disorder, its occurrence is increased in some regions of the world where intracommunity marriage and consanguinity are commonplace, resulting in increased expression of autosomal recessive traits. we have been studying two populations having an unusually high frequency of glanzmann disease, iraqi jews and arabs living in israel, and were able to distinguish the populations on the basis of immunodetectable gpiiia and platelet surface vitronectin receptor (alpha v beta 3) expression. in this article, we describe molecular genetic studies based on use of the pcr that have allowed us to characterize platelet mrna sequences encoding gpiib and gpiiia from patients in these populations. in six of six iraqi-jewish families studied, cdna sequence analysis identified an 11-base deletion within exon 12 of the gpiiia gene. this mutation produces a frameshift leading to protein termination shortly before the transmembrane domain of gpiiia. in contrast, a 13-base deletion encompassing the splice acceptor site of exon 4 of the gpiib gene was found in three of five arab kindreds studied. this deletion results in forced alternative splicing to a downstream ag acceptor, producing a 6-amino acid deletion in the gpiib protein, including a single cysteine residue. these nucleotide sequence variations were exploited to design a rapid, pcr-based oligonucleotide dot-blot hybridization test for both pre- and postnatal diagnosis of glanzmann disease. these studies demonstrate the heterogeneity of glanzmann thrombasthenia in different populations, and its homogeneity within geographically restricted populations, and offer insight into the requirements for integrin surface expression.
cryosurgery and acrylic cementation as surgical adjuncts in the treatment of aggressive (benign) bone tumors. analysis of 25 patients below the age of 21. this article reviews the clinical experience with cryosurgery (use of liquid nitrogen) and acrylic cementation (polymethylmethacrylate; pmma) in the treatment of aggressive, benign bone sarcomas and the biologic basis of this technique. the results of 25 patients below the age of 21 treated by cryosurgery, with an average follow-up period of 60.8 months, are reported. three approaches to surgical reconstruction were used: group 1 (four patients) had cryosurgery with no reconstruction, group 2 (13 patients) had bone graft reconstruction alone, and group 3 (eight patients) had composite osteosynthesis with internal fixation, bone graft, and/or pmma. the overall control rate was 96% (one recurrence). the tumor types were giant-cell tumor, chondroblastoma, aneurysmal bone cyst, and malignant giant-cell tumor. nineteen lesions involved the lower extremity, and six lesions were located in the upper extremity. there were two secondary fractures (8%), one local flap necrosis, and one synovial fistula. there were no infections. two epiphyseodeses were performed. the functional results were excellent (83%), good (13%), and fair (4%). the technique of composite osteosynthesis is recommended for all large tumors of the lower extremity. cryosurgical results compare favorably with those obtained by en bloc resection and demonstrate the ability of cryosurgery to eradicate tumors while avoiding the need for extensive resections and reconstructive procedures.
role of experience in the response to simulated critical incidents. eight experienced anesthesiologists (faculty or private practitioners) were presented with the same simulated critical incidents that had previously been presented to 19 anesthesia trainees. the detection and correction times for these incidents were measured, as was compliance with advanced cardiac life support (acls) guidelines during cardiac arrest, and the occurrence of unplanned incidents. experienced personnel tended to react more rapidly than did trainees, but differences between second-year anesthesia residents (ca2) and experienced anesthesiologists were not statistically significant. there was a high variability in performance between incidents and within each group. unplanned errors and management flaws still occurred with experience subjects. the response to incidents during anesthesia is a complex process that involves multiple levels of cognitive activity and is vulnerable to error regardless of experience. most trainees seemed to acquire adequate response routines by the end of the ca2 year. formal reasoning appeared to play a minor role in responding to intraoperative events, but the exact nature of the anesthesiologist's cognition remains to be thoroughly investigated.
the fallacy of the screening interval for cervical smears. one hundred seventy-four women with invasive cervical carcinoma were interviewed about their cervical smear histories to assess the accuracy of self-reporting and to relate the smear history with patient and tumor characteristics. patients reported significantly more frequent, more recent, and more normal smears than were documented in medical records. the interval between onset of cancer symptoms and previous smear correlated directly with advanced stage. sixteen women with normal smears within 36 months had significantly more advanced cancers than did 25 women with recent abnormal smears. women with recent normal and abnormal smears had similar sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics. because of inaccuracies in patients' self-reported smear histories and cancers developing in women with recent normal smears, we conclude that a specific screening interval should not be relied upon.
primary central nervous system lymphoma in patients with and without the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. a retrospective analysis and review of the literature. twenty-two cases of pcl were reviewed, in which 9 patients had aids and 13 did not. a review of the literature identified 247 cases of aids-related pcl. differences between patients with aids and immunocompetent pcl were noted in our series. aids-related pcl when compared to non-aids pcl in our series has the following notable clinical features: 1) significantly younger age at presentation, median age 34 versus 59 years; 2) significantly higher incidence of b symptoms, 44% versus 8%; 3) worse median performance status at presentation, 3 versus 1; and, 4) shorter median survival, 3 versus 10 months. differences in performance status and survival, however, were not significant. aids-related pcl is further characterized by frequent (44%) ring-enhancing mass lesions on head ct scan, a finding that makes it clinically difficult to distinguish from toxoplasmosis. median survival appears to be improved in the absence of opportunistic infection at time of diagnosis of pcl, 6 versus 2 months. the therapeutic approach to patients with pcl, with and without aids, is variable. combined modality therapy may improve the survival in patients with non-aids pcl. therapy for patients with aids-related pcl is tailored to the status of the individual and it is, therefore, difficult to make comparisons to non-aids pcl patients. aids patients are often too ill to tolerate aggressive surgery or systemic treatment and in this instance, radiotherapy alone may be an acceptable alternative. nonetheless, overall survival for patients with aids-related and non-aids pcl remains poor.
steal-prone coronary anatomy and myocardial ischemia associated with four primary anesthetic agents in humans. to examine the relationship between myocardial ischemia in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy and the administration of isoflurane anesthesia, we reviewed coronary angiograms of 955 patients who had participated in a randomized trial of the use of one of four primary anesthetics for coronary artery bypass operations. steal-prone anatomy was found in 31.8% of patients who had received enflurane; 40.0%, halothane; 32.6%, isoflurane; and 31.7%, sufentanil. detected by greater than or equal to 0.1 mv st segment displacement, ischemia during anesthesia occurred in 290 (30.4%) of all patients with no difference in the incidence among the four primary anesthetics (27.5%-32.9%). patients with steal-prone anatomy did not suffer more ischemia than patients who needed coronary artery bypass surgery but with other varieties of coronary anatomy. in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy, the incidence of myocardial ischemia by primary anesthetic was 24.0% with enflurane, 34.4% with halothane, 32.1% with isoflurane, and 38.2% with sufentanil. systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg during anesthesia occurred in 416 (45.6%) patients and was twice as common during administration of volatile anesthetics than during that of sufentanil. hypotension did not increase ischemia frequency in patients with steal-prone anatomy with use of any of the four primary anesthetics including isoflurane. ischemia was temporally related to hypotension in only 9 patients (0.9%). in none of the 42 patients who had steal-prone anatomy and hypotension during isoflurane anesthesia was ischemia temporally related to hypotension.
primary mass closure of midline incisions with a continuous polyglyconate monofilament absorbable suture. mass closure of midline incisions with a running large-bore permanent monofilament polypropylene suture has been used in general surgery and gynecology patients with a reported small incidence of fascial dehiscence. late-occurring wound sinus formation is one problem reported with the use of this permanent suture material. over a 22-month period, 285 patients had midline incisions closed with a continuous, running no. 1 polyglyconate monofilament delayed absorbable suture. closely spaced bites (about 1.5 cm apart) were taken and placed 2 cm lateral to the fascial edge. over 60% of the patients had surgery because of gynecologic cancer. other high-risk factors included obesity in 62%, diabetes in 19%, and previous irradiation or chemotherapy in 22%. an ovarian cancer staging procedure was done in 16% of the patients. of the remaining patients, almost half had extensive operative procedures that ranged from exenterations to hysterectomies with lymph node dissection. wound complications were noted in nine patients (3.2%). seven had superficial infections, one had an evisceration, and one developed a ventral hernia. wound sinuses did not occur. the closure technique is safe and expedient and distributes tension equally over a continuous line. it has the additional advantage of eventual absorption of the suture material, thereby avoiding the wound sinus problems occasionally reported with large-bore permanent sutures.
portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter. curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion, especially into the portal vein. we developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein. pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer, with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein. use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein, and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease.
stridor: intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis. during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit, nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy. when tracheally extubated, each child was found to have stridor. the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years. two patients had unilateral paralysis, but neither required tracheostomy. seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis. of these, six patients required tracheostomy. surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients. the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure. four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months. both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later. cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull. early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated, especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension.
healing or amelioration of esophagitis does not result in increased lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressure [published erratum appears in am j gastroenterol 1991 feb;86(2):253] there is conflicting evidence regarding whether lower esophageal sphincter and esophageal contractile pressures are affected by changes in the severity of gastroesophageal reflux disease. we compared the manometric and endoscopic findings from 30 patients before and after treatment for esophagitis. before treatment, the grade of esophagitis (i-iii) was significantly correlated (r = -0.37; p less than 0.05) with lower esophageal sphincter pressure, but not with esophageal contractile pressure. after treatment, the grade of esophagitis did not change or became worse in 15 patients, and became better in 15 patients. of these, seven healed. the group that showed no endoscopic improvement demonstrated no change in lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressures. the group that did show endoscopic improvement also demonstrated no increase in lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressures, and this was particularly evident in those whose esophagitis healed. these data suggest that healing of esophagitis does not result in improvement of esophageal motor function.
the intracolonic bypass tube for left colon and rectal trauma. the avoidance of a colostomy. traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum are most frequently managed by procedures that include the formation of a colostomy. primary repair without colostomy is much less commonly employed. we report nine patients with traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum treated with the intracolonic bypass tube (icbt) without concomitant colostomy. in all these patients we believe the standard treatment would have included fecal diversion. four patients sustained blunt trauma and five sustained penetrating trauma. healing of the colonic anastomosis occurred in all cases, and the icbts were passed per rectum between the tenth and nineteenth days postoperatively. on the basis of this study, we conclude that the icbt has a role in the treatment of selected injuries of the left colon and rectum as a safe means of avoiding a colostomy.
dynamic positron tomographic imaging with nitrogen-13 glutamate in patients with coronary artery disease: comparison with nitrogen-13 ammonia and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose imaging. this study was designed to test the usefulness of nitrogen-13 (n-13) glutamate imaging with positron emission tomography in defining myocardial ischemia in humans. seventeen patients who had undergone coronary arteriography were studied with n-13 glutamate at peak supine exercise using a bicycle ergometer, as well as with the flow tracer n-13 ammonia at peak exercise during a second similar exercise test. six of the patients also underwent imaging with n-13 glutamate at rest before exercise testing; in the remaining 11 patients imaging with fluorine-18 (f-18) fluorodeoxyglucose was performed to assess glucose metabolism after the second exercise test. seven patients had classic metabolism-flow mismatches consistent with ischemia (that is, decreased n-13 ammonia uptake in a region with relatively increased f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose uptake). there was no evidence of increased n-13 glutamate uptake in the ischemic mismatched regions in any of these patients. in all 17 patients, the uptake of n-13 glutamate during exercise paralleled the uptake of n-13 ammonia during exercise, suggesting that n-13 glutamate behaves as a flow tracer rather than as a metabolic marker of ischemia in humans.
evaluation of the results of oesophagectomy for oesophageal cancer. the long-term results of standard techniques of oesophagectomy were examined in 127 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus. a near-total oesophagectomy with a cervical anastomosis was performed in 93 patients and an oesophagogastrectomy with an intrathoracic anastomosis was carried out in 34 patients. one hundred and eight patients had a curative oesophagectomy and 19 patients had a palliative resection. eight patients received radiotherapy to the tumour bed. there were 15 deaths in hospital and the overall 5-year survival rate including perioperative deaths was 13.2 per cent. survival was adversely affected by incomplete excision of macroscopic tumour (p less than 0.001), positive regional lymph nodes (p less than 0.05) and distant lymphatic metastases (p less than 0.02). the 5-year survival rate of patients with tumour invasion beyond the oesophageal wall (t3) and negative nodes was 20 per cent. postoperative irradiation had no effect on the survival of patients with gross residual tumour. complete clearance of microscopic tumour was achieved in 50 per cent of patients with t3 tumours and this group did not benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy. survival in patients undergoing curative oesophagectomy with residual microscopic tumour, however, was significantly improved by irradiation of the tumour bed (p less than 0.01). these results suggest that the survival of patients can be increased significantly by the excision of all gross tumour and by identification of those who will benefit from local radiotherapy.
effect of hypoxia on cerebral metabolites measured by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in rats. proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy is a unique method to monitor noninvasively the concentrations of cerebral metabolites. n-acetyl-l-aspartate, the concentration of which is assumed to be stable during hypoxia, has been used to form ratios with lactate. to determine the stability of the signal from n-acetyl-l-aspartate, we used a model of graded hypoxia in rats to monitor the percentage changes from baseline of the peak heights for lactate, lipids, and n-acetyl-l-aspartate. anesthetized adult rats were exposed sequentially to 15% and 10% o2 while proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were collected with a surface coil in a 7-t 89-mm-bore spectrometer. brain lactate concentration was either increased by feeding or infusion of glucose (n = 9) or lowered by fasting (n = 7). after death the brains were removed and frozen, and the water- and lipid-soluble compounds were extracted to identify the origin of the signals. we analyzed the data both as the percentage change from baseline for heights of the lactate (1.33 ppm), lipids (1.5 ppm), and n-acetyl-l-aspartate (2.02 ppm) peaks and as the ratios of heights of the 1.33 and 2.02 and the 1.5 and 2.02 ppm peaks. both hypoxic episodes caused a 45% decrease from baseline in the 2.02 ppm peak. during the second hypoxic episode, the 1.33:2.02 ppm peak height ratio increased significantly in hyperglycemic rats (p less than 0.05) but was unchanged in hypoglycemic rats.
mast cell/nerve interactions in vitro and in vivo. in this report, we review the evidence for mast cell/nerve interactions. we believe that the morphologic and functional evidence now strongly support a purposeful and biologically significant interaction between these two cell types. this interaction has physiologic consequences and appears to be able to regulate such local events as chloride ion secretion by epithelial cells of the intestinal and respiratory tracts in experimental models. in this way, the mast cell and nerve may be considered as a functional homeostatic regulatory unit. the extent to which this unit may be involved in maintenance of normal integrity of mucous membranes or other structures, in health and in disease, is not clear at the present and will require considerably more investigation and elucidation. however, the concept of such an interaction is an interesting one and may bring new approaches of a therapeutic and diagnostic nature to bear on some old problems. the observations reviewed in this report that psychologic conditioning may itself cause mucosal mast cell degranulation and mediator release in the rat is significant. we consider that this evidence of central nervous system control of mast cell degranulation is an extension of the idea that mast cells and nerves communicate.
national allocation of cadaveric kidneys by hla matching. projected effect on outcome and costs. background. although receiving a cadaveric kidney matched at the hla-a, b, and dr loci enhances graft survival in cyclosporine-treated patients, the value of a national system of kidney allocation based on hla matching, with the attendant increased likelihood of better matching, is still questioned. some fear that the costs of a national system are unjustified when only a small fraction of donors would exactly match any of the 16,000 potential recipients anyway. we estimated the effect on graft survival of the use of hla matching for all allocations of cadaveric kidneys in the united states. methods. the graft-survival rates in five mutually exclusive groups of transplants with increasing numbers of hla mismatches were estimated by partitioning the data for 22,190 first-time recipients of cadaveric kidneys. overall graft survival was projected as a weighted average with use of the percentages of transplants in the hierarchical groups in recipient waiting pools of various sizes. we compared the benefits and costs of hla matching in a national system with those of introducing cyclosporine, which was projected to enhance graft survival by 7 percentage points at 10 years. results. sharing kidneys nationally on the basis of hierarchical hla matching was estimated to enhance graft survival by an additional 5 percentage points at 10 years. the anticipated five-year cost of national allocation of kidneys by hla matching for 7000 recipients, including consideration of the costs of graft removal and dialysis after transplant rejection, would be +4f6.5 million less than the cost of using cyclosporine alone. conclusions. the use of an hla allocation system will not add to the cost of renal transplantation, but it will improve the long-term results to the same extent as cyclosporine. we propose the initiation of a national kidney-sharing system based on hierarchical levels of hla matches.
management of selected cystic adnexal masses in postmenopausal women by operative laparoscopy: a pilot study. twenty-five postmenopausal patients were predicted to have benign masses by screening criteria that included ultrasonographic findings of a cystic adnexal mass less than 10 cm with distinct borders and no evidence of irregular solid parts, thick septa, ascites, or matted bowel, and a normal serum ca 125 value (less than 35 u/ml). all 25 masses were accurately predicted to be benign. the size of the cysts on ultrasonography ranged from 3 to 9 cm with a mean of 5 cm. twenty-two patients (88%) were successfully managed by operative laparoscopy and adnexectomy. mean operative time was 70 minutes and mean postoperative hospital stay was 12 hours. mean time of return to normal activity was 5 days. three patients required laparotomy. we conclude that removal of these cystic adnexal masses by operative laparoscopy is an acceptable alternative in carefully selected postmenopausal women.
solid and cystic ultimobranchial body remnants in the thyroid. in this study we determined the incidence rate (89%) and characterized the morphology of ultimobranchial body (ubb) remnants found in 18 serially sectioned neonatal thyroid glands. although ubb remnants are often referred to as solid cell nests, we found cystic features in 55%. ciliated columnar cells were seen in 23%. one contained a large pseudo-papilla. the ubb cells had nuclei with features reminiscent of papillary carcinoma nuclei in that they were enlarged, oval, and contained finely dispersed chromatin when compared with follicular cell nuclei. both papillary carcinomas and ubb remnants are common, occur as tiny, solid, or cystic thyroid entities in patients of all ages, may contain papillary structures, and share some common nuclear features. therefore, it is important to include ubb remnants in the differential diagnosis of minute thyroid entities and to recognize their morphologic features.
prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. the prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. a group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography. the clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them. in 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal ph and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests, ie, acid perfusion, edrophonium stimulation, balloon distension, and ergonovine stimulation, all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring. in 19 of these 37 patients, the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic st-t segment alterations; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr ph and pressure recording. these data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram.
hypoxanthine levels in vitreous humor: evidence of hypoxia in most infants who died of sudden infant death syndrome. postmortem changes of the hypoxanthine in vitreous humor in humans were investigated. hypoxanthine is formed from hypoxic degradation of adenosine monophosphate. repeated sampling was performed in 13 deceased adults. keeping the bodies at +6 degrees c, the increase of the hypoxanthine levels was estimated to 3.5 mumol/l per hour when sampling was started more than 12 hours after death (range 2.8 to 5.6 mumol/l per hour). results of hypoxanthine measurements from vitreous humor in 73 infants with sudden infant death syndrome, 17 infants and children who died sudden violent deaths, and 6 neonates who died suddenly without hypoxemia prior to death were corrected according to the expected postmortem hypoxanthine increase. the time between death and autopsy was similar in the three groups studied. the corrected median hypoxanthine level in the group with sudden infant death syndrome was 227 mumol/l, which is significantly higher than in the other groups; 22 mumol/l in the group who had violent deaths (p less than .01), and 0 mumol/l in the neonate group (p less than .01). the findings seem to confirm that sudden infant death is preceded by a relatively long period of tissue hypoxia in most cases.
leukemias of indeterminant lineage. two biologically and clinically important forms of acute leukemia have been described. evidence suggests that both undifferentiated acute leukemia and many types of hybrid leukemia arise from relatively fewer differentiated cells than do the more straightforward acute leukemias. clinical correlations suggest that patients with these leukemias may have a poorer prognosis, although some findings may be associated with an improved prognosis. more data in which multiple techniques are applied to the same leukemic cells are clearly needed. patients with certain types of hybrid leukemias may be suitable candidates for more aggressive forms of chemotherapy or, possibly, combinations of therapy directed at cells of both lineages.
vaccination against hepatitis b and protection against chronic viral carriage in the gambia. 358 children in the gambian villages of keneba and manduar, where hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection is endemic, were vaccinated with plasma-derived vaccine against hbv according to one of four regimens and followed for up to 4 years. two regimens by which vaccine was injected intradermally into children between 0 and 4 years old led to peak geometric mean (95% ci) concentrations of antibody against hbv surface antigen of 270 (202-358) and 555 (418-748) mlu/ml. the third regimen--intramuscular vaccination of children aged between 0 and 4 years--gave geometric mean peak antibody concentrations of 926 (765-1122) mlu/ml. a fourth regimen was intramuscular vaccination of children between 1 and 9 months old, which gave geometric mean antibody concentrations of 5431 (3903-75,456) mlu/ml. despite these widely divergent responses and a 89% decay in antibody over the first 2 years, vaccination against hbv was 97% effective in preventing chronic infection. vaccination was less effective in preventing uncomplicated infection: 5.3% of 264 vaccinees in keneba and 19.1% of 94 vaccinees in manduar tested positive for antibody to hbv core antigen. these "breakthrough infections" did not differ in frequency between regimens, and were associated with low initial antibody responses and chronic maternal carriage of hbv.
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus. a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties (tkas) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus. the overall infection rate was 7%, with an overall revision rate of 10% and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years. wound complications were present in 12% of the tkas. the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients. therefore, maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis.
expected gains in life expectancy from various coronary heart disease risk factor modifications background. despite much evidence that modifying risk factors for coronary heart disease can decrease morbidity and mortality, little is known about the impact of risk-factor modification on life expectancy. methods and results. we used the coronary heart disease policy model, a state-transition computer simulation of the us population, to forecast potential gains in life expectancy from risk-factor modification for the cohort of americans turning age 35 in 1990. among 35-year-old men, we projected that the population-wide increase in life expectancy would be about 1.1 years from strict blood pressure control, 0.8 years from smoking cessation, 0.7 years from reduction of serum cholesterol to 200 mg/dl, and about 0.6 years from weight loss to ideal body weight. for women, reducing cholesterol to 200 mg/dl would have the greatest estimated impact-a gain of 0.8 years-whereas smoking cessation, blood pressure control, or weight loss would yield population-wide gains of 0.7, 0.4, and 0.4 years, respectively. gains for 35-year-old individuals having a given risk factor are greater. we estimate that, on average, male smokers would gain 2.3 years from quitting smoking; males with hypertension would gain 1.1-5.3 years from reducing their diastolic blood pressure to 88 mm hg; men with serum cholesterol levels exceeding 200 mg/dl would gain 0.5-4.2 years from lowering their serum cholesterol level to 200 mg/dl; and overweight men would gain an average of 0.7-1.7 years from achieving ideal body weight. corresponding projected gains for at-risk women are 2.8 years from quitting smoking, 0.9-5.7 years from lowering blood pressure, 0.4-6.3 years from decreasing serum cholesterol, and 0.5-1.1 years from losing weight. eliminating coronary heart disease mortality is estimated to extend the average life expectancy of a 35-year-old man by 3.1 years and a 35-year-old woman by 3.3 years. conclusions. population-wide gains in life expectancy from single risk-factor modifications are modest, but gains to individuals at risk can be more substantial.
synergistic effect of murine cytomegalovirus on the induction of acute graft-vs-host disease involving mhc class i differences only. analysis of in vitro t cell function. the development of acute graft-vs-host disease (gvhd) is a common outcome after the injection of fully mhc disparate parental t cells into unirradiated f1 mice. murine cytomegalovirus (mcmv) infection has been previously shown to augment the development of acute gvhd in the parent-into-f1 (p----f1) model, such that 10-fold fewer parental cells are required. in the present study, we have investigated the effect of mcmv infection on the induction of non-lethal gvhd that occurs in p----f1 combinations involving mhc class i only or class ii only differences. using p----f1 combinations involving either an h-2k only difference or an h-2d only difference, mcmv infection of f1 mice 3 days before the injection of parental spleen cells led to a profound t cell immunodeficiency that strongly resembled that observed in acute gvhd. further studies examining the h-2k disparate p----f1 combination, c57bl/6---- (c57bl/6xb6.c-h-2bm1) f1 and combined mcmv infection showed that the immunodeficiency is characterized by a profound loss of in vitro th cell production of il-2 and an intrinsic defect in t effector function as shown by an inability of ril-2 to restore defective ctl responses. additional experiments in these mice revealed the presence of suppressor cells as well as significant parent-anti-f1 ctl activity possibly accounting for the suppressor effect. this pattern of immunodeficiency was not seen after the administration of either mcmv or mhc class i disparate parental cells alone. mcmv infection did not detectably alter the immunodeficiency observed in a p----f1 combination involving a mhc class ii difference only. these results indicate that mcmv infection can alter the pattern of gvhd in the setting of an mhc class i disparity, but not in the setting of class ii disparity, such that it resembles acute gvhd. these results may have relevance to the human transplant setting where intercurrent cmv infection has been associated with an adverse clinical outcome.
the risk of developing subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers. data from the southeast arizona skin cancer registry collected during 1985 through june 1988 were used in this study. patients who had a nonmelanoma skin cancer (basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma) removed in 1985 were observed until subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers developed or until june 30, 1988. twelve categories of nonmelanoma skin cancers were developed on the basis of the type of first nonmelanoma skin cancer and type of second, third, and fourth nonmelanoma skin cancers. analyses showed the highest risk of a subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancer developing was within 1 year (36.39%), the rate of developing another nonmelanoma skin cancer depended on type (squamous cell carcinoma, 100%; basal cell carcinoma, 44.23% to 83.65%), and total risk decreased during the 1277 days of the study.
heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain. male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves, and the development of autonomy was monitored. the deafferented animals were then interbred, always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and, alternatively, relatively low levels of autotomy. offspring were similarly operated and interbred. by the sixth generation of selective breeding, lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high (ha) or consistently low (la). there was no indication of sex linkage. thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury: response thresholds were lower in ha than in la rats. f1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous ha and la animals showed low levels of autotomy, similar to la stock. this indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait. backcrossing f1 hybrids onto the la line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases; backcrossing f1 hybrids onto ha stock yielded about 50% high autotomy and 50% low autotomy. these ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene. taken together, the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait.
transesophageal echocardiographic features of normal and dysfunctioning bioprosthetic valves. transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography and color flow doppler were performed in patients with 42 normal and 20 dysfunctioning bioprosthetic mitral and aortic valves. transesophageal echocardiography was superior to the transthoracic approach in delineating bioprosthetic valve cusps and the presence of valve thickening due to valve degeneration. in 27 clinically normal bioprosthetic mitral valves, regurgitation was demonstrated in three patients by the transthoracic approach and in seven by transesophageal study. both transesophageal and transthoracic color flow doppler demonstrated mitral regurgitation in 17 clinically regurgitant valves. the severity of mitral regurgitation was accurately assessed by the transesophageal study in all 13 patients who underwent angiography, whereas the transthoracic imaging underestimated valvular regurgitation in 7 of the 13 cases (54%). bioprosthetic aortic valves were normal on clinical examination in 15 patients and were regurgitant in three others. both transthoracic and transesophageal color flow doppler were of equal value in observing and quantifying aortic regurgitation. in five clinically normal and regurgitant mitral and aortic valves, transesophageal color flow doppler revealed eccentric regurgitant jets suggestive of paravalvular leak. this feature was not evident by the transthoracic approach. in conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography and color flow doppler are superior to transthoracic imaging in estimating bioprosthetic mitral, but not aortic regurgitation, in differentiating valvular from paravalvular regurgitation, and in demonstrating thickened valves due to cusp degeneration.
factitious cyclic hypersomnia: a new variant of factitious disorder. the central goal of patients with factitious disorders is to receive medical care. unnecessary diagnostic procedures and recurrent hospitalizations often ensue. we saw a 39-year-old man with a novel variation of this disorder: factitious cyclic hypersomnia, or the simulation of recurrent episodes of excessive sleep. this case highlights the observations that patients whose illnesses are simulated may have diverse symptoms, that no syndrome is immune to factitious imitation, and that attempts at treatment, though exceedingly challenging, are always contingent upon appropriate recognition.
long-term memory of acute postsurgical pain. the long-term memory of acute postoperative pain intensity was evaluated in a population of patients who had undergone the removal of impacted third molar teeth. the results suggest a positive correlation between experienced and remembered intensities of postsurgical pain for up to 3 years after surgery. they also suggest that males and females do not differ significantly in their reports of postsurgical pain intensity, nor do they differ significantly in their memories of pain intensity. pain recall using verbal pain descriptors was more reliable than recall with visual analog scales. patient reports of intensity of past postsurgical acute pain, particularly those reports obtained with verbal descriptors, may be useful in the planning of treatment and in the selection and evaluation of analgesic regimens.
respiratory symptoms and risk factors in an arizona population sample of anglo and mexican-american whites. prevalence rates of respiratory symptoms and diseases in a large group of anglos and mexican-americans were analyzed. each subject completed a questionnaire. among current smokers, chronic productive cough and dyspnea were significantly higher in both ethnic groups; wheezy symptoms were higher in anglos. there were no significant differences in the symptom prevalence rates between the two groups, after stratifying by current cigarette consumption and crt. the spirometric values were not significantly different. in both ethnic groups, the prevalence rates of wheeze, sobwhz and asthma were significantly higher in those who had crt. among anglos, less educated smokers had significantly higher prevalence rates of sobwhz and dyspnea; nonsmokers with less education had higher prevalence rates of cough, chronic cough and dyspnea. our results confirm the importance of crt and lower educational level as risk factors for respiratory symptoms. ethnicity is not associated with symptomatology or lung function impairment.
portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter. curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion, especially into the portal vein. we developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein. pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer, with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein. use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein, and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease.
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors: the value of early diagnosis. the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved. the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function. in general, conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent. thus, excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis. this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients. adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms, clinical signs, and related diagnosis. our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors. diagnostic guidelines are proposed.
recurrence rate after discontinuation of long-term mebendazole therapy in alveolar echinococcosis (preliminary results). the recurrence rate was investigated in 19 patients with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis after discontinuation of a long-term therapy with mebendazole (average treatment 4.3 years). a control group consisted of 14 patients who underwent radical surgery and finished a course of prophylactic postoperative mebendazole treatment of 2 years. in the controls, no recurrence was observed after a post-therapy period averaging 3.5 years. in contrast, recurrence occurred in 7/19 patients (37%) with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis an average of 1.6 years after discontinuation of the long-term mebendazole therapy. the absence of clinically detectable recurrence in the remaining 12 patients seems to be due either to spontaneous inactivation of alveolar echinococcosis preceding chemotherapy or too short post-therapy surveillance. the patients with recurrence responded favorably to reintroduction of chemotherapy. the data indicate that mebendazole therapy is parasitostatic rather than parasiticidal.
cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic pyelitis and ureteritis associated with cystitis in marrow transplantation. a 29-year-old woman suffered fatal hemorrhagic pyelitis, ureteritis and cystitis after receiving 4,800 mg./m.2 cyclophosphamide in preparation for marrow transplantation despite intravenous hydration and a foley catheter. cyclophosphamide-induced urothelial damage is not limited to the bladder and upper tract monitoring also is necessary.
fenestrated atrial septal aneurysm: diagnosis by transesophageal echocardiography. the diagnosis of atrial septal defect by transthoracic echocardiography remains difficult in a small subset of patients because of either suboptimal acoustic windows or unusual anatomy, for example, fenestrated defects. we report the case of a 55-year-old woman with a fenestrated atrial septal aneurysm that was incompletely visualized by transthoracic echocardiography. subsequent transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated three defects within the atrial septal aneurysm with left-to-right shunting across each defect. normal pulmonary venous connections were also defined. all echocardiographic findings were confirmed at surgery. this case demonstrates the additional diagnostic accuracy of transesophageal echocardiography for detecting disease of the atrial septum.
traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child. a case report. a seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine. evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula. surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula. traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare. the diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest.
acquired cisplatin resistance in human ovarian cancer cells is associated with enhanced repair of cisplatin-dna lesions and reduced drug accumulation. studies were undertaken to investigate acquired resistance to cisplatin in human ovarian cancer cells. the cell lines a2780 and a2780/cp70 were studied to assess their respective characteristics of drug accumulation and efflux, cytosolic inactivation of drug, and dna repair. all experiments were performed using 1-h drug exposures. the a2780/cp70 cell line was 13-fold more resistant to cisplatin than a2780 cells. when studied at their respective ic50 doses, drug accumulation rates were similar for the two cell lines. however, the resistant cell line was twofold more efficient at effluxing drug, which was associated with reduced total drug accumulation for equivalent micromolar drug exposures. at equivalent levels of total cellular drug accumulation, the two cell lines formed the same levels of cisplatin-dna damage, suggesting that cytosolic inactivation of drug does not contribute to the differential in resistance between these cell lines. resistant cells were also twofold more efficient at repairing cisplatin-dna lesions in cellular dna and in transfected plasmid dna. we conclude that in these paired cell lines, alterations in drug uptake/efflux and in dna repair are the major contributing factors to acquired resistance to cisplatin.
arterial abnormalities of the hand in athletes. vascular lesions of the hand may be seen in athletes exposed to repetitive blunt trauma. thirteen athletes seen from 1983 to 1988 experienced symptoms related to hand ischemia. nine were professional baseball catchers. the majority of patients complained of chronic symptoms, including cold hypersensitivity (four patients), finger numbness (one), finger coolness (three), and finger blanching (three). two patients had acute symptoms with sudden posttraumatic hand ischemia with finger and palmar pain. diagnosis was established by history and physical examination and confirmed by noninvasive testing. testing included use of doppler examination and cold tolerance examination with thermistors. two athletes required angiographic evaluation because of severe ischemia and continuous pain. all patients in this group were managed nonoperatively. those with chronic complaints were counseled regarding cold avoidance and instructed to increase their glove padding. the two patients with acute symptoms required vasodilator (papaverine chloride) infusion, followed by intravenous heparin and dextran. all baseball catchers returned to their sport with dissipation of symptoms.
long-term results of operation for non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly. we surgically treated 185 patients with non-small cell lung cancer who were 70 years old or older. the operative mortality rate was 3%, and the 5-year survival rate was 48%. the mortality and prognosis were similar to those in younger patients. the number of elderly patients who smoked heavily or who had ventilatory defects was high, but the incidence of pneumonectomy was low. there were no differences based on age in regard to histological type, tnm classification, and curability. pulmonary complications occurred in 21% of the elderly patients and were correlated with preoperative pulmonary function and smoking habits. when the elderly are to undergo elective pulmonary resection for lung cancer, the preoperative evaluation of pulmonary function should be thorough, and both preoperative and postoperative physical therapy should be given. if postoperative pulmonary function is predicted to be less than 0.8 l/m2 of vital capacity and 0.6 l/m2 of forced expiratory volume in 1 second, a limited resection or nonsurgical therapy should be considered.
carotid artery resection and replacement in patients with head and neck malignant tumors. tumor involvement of the carotid artery with head and neck cancers may be present either simultaneously with the primary lesion or more often appears at a later date following resection of the primary tumor. management of the secondary tumor consists of its resection together with the involved carotid artery with or without carotid artery reconstruction. the authors are convinced that the best chance for cure of patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell cancers involving the carotid artery is radical extirpation with ablative surgery in the form of en block resection of the primary lesion, the secondary tumor, and the involved carotid artery followed by immediate revascularization. this bold approach was carried out in two male patients, 48 and 61 years of age, followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy in one and radiation therapy alone in the other, with excellent results. dermal grafts were placed over the entire length of the arterialized veins to protect them from radiation injury. based on this limited experience and excellent results, we recommend this one-stage surgical ablative procedure in well selected patients. however, cooperation between the ent and vascular surgeons, strict adherence to the principles and techniques of vascular surgery, and coverage of the arterialized vein with a dermal graft is absolutely essential.
effect of prednisolone treatment in chronic silicosis. we evaluated the effects of daily oral prednisolone therapy on alveolitis parameters and pulmonary function tests over a 6-month period in patients with chronic silicosis. pulmonary function tests were done in 34 patients, and bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) was done in 21 of them. pulmonary function tests showed a significant improvement in lung volumes, fev1, pefr, sgaw, dlco, and pao2. analysis of bal fluid revealed a significant decrease in total cell count. mean fibronectin and immunoglobulin values in bal fluid also were lower after treatment, but the change was not statistically significant. no serious side effects were encountered with prednisolone therapy. these results indicate that daily oral prednisolone therapy may suppress the alveolitis in certain patients with chronic silicosis and bring about a significant improvement in lung functions and gas exchange.
evolution of fundic argyrophil cell hyperplasia in nonantral atrophic gastritis. fundic argyrophil cells were studied for a mean period of 68.7 months (range, 11-170) in 18 patients with fundic atrophic gastritis and achlorhydria. initially, 12 patients had hyperplasia of the argyrophil cells, the severity of which was assessed using a semiquantitative classification based on the number of argyrophil clusters per square millimeter. at the end of the study, the degree of hyperplasia was unchanged in 9 patients, had decreased in 2, and had increased in 1; no significant increase in the number of argyrophil clusters, precarcinoid changes, or carcinoid tumors were observed and the high level of gastrinemia [mean, 4.8 (range, 1.9-8.1) times the upper limit for normal) did not change significantly. of the 6 patients with no hyperplasia at the outset of the study, 4 continued without hyperplasia and 2 presented a low-grade hyperplasia at the 20th and 130th month. gastrinemia increased significantly in the last patient and stayed normal in the other 5. this study argues in favor of the stable appearance of fundic argyrophil cells in patients with atrophic gastritis and stable gastrinemia.
is preoperative ultrasound cancer survey necessary in patients with normal liver function tests? abdominal ultrasound examination is so easy that it may be overused. to reduce medical costs, we investigated whether preoperative ultrasonic abdominal survey was necessary for oncologic patients with normal liver function tests. we used the ultrasound diagnosis as the final standard to test the value of liver function tests for the prediction of liver metastases. five hundred forty-four patients with various primary malignancies were referred for preoperative ultrasonic survey of the abdomen. the results showed that for a single test, serum albumin was most sensitive (87.2%) but least specific (29.4%), and serum bilirubin was least sensitive (13.0%) but most specific (97.2%), for the prediction of liver metastases. for a combination of five tests or more, the sensitivity was 95.9% and the specificity 29.5%. in patients with normal liver function tests, liver metastases were detected by ultrasound in two of 106 (1.9%) patients. one hundred of 544 (18.4%) patients having major abnormalities that may influence clinical management were also detected during the ultrasound examination. we conclude that ultrasound is convenient, cheap, and without side effects. it can provide additional information affecting patient management, even in the presence of normal liver function tests.
intractable complex partial seizures associated with occult temporal lobe encephalocele and meningoangiomatosis: a case report. occult congenital temporal lobe encephalocele has rarely been reported in association with medically intractable complex partial seizures. the four previously reported cases were unsuspected preoperatively. we present the case of an 18-year-old woman with intractable complex partial seizures since age 13. seizure onset was electrically localized to the right temporal lobe. preoperative neuroimaging studies revealed a middle fossa defect and inferior herniation of the right temporal lobe. pathologic examination of the resected encephalocele revealed prominent features of meningoangiomatosis. we believe this to be the first case of temporal lobe encephalocele and epilepsy to be diagnosed preoperatively, and the first case also to be associated with meningoangiomatosis. the relevant literature on meningoangiomatosis and on temporal lobe encephalocele as a cause of epilepsy is reviewed.
hemodynamic effects of nebivolol at rest and on exertion in patients with heart failure. nebivolol is a novel b-1-adrenoceptor-blocking drug with an unusual hemodynamic profile unlike classical b-blockers. in dogs and in healthy volunteers it decreases blood pressure and heart rate but improves left ventricular function. the authors studied 10 male patients with coronary artery disease and heart failure (ejection fraction mean = 46%). a swan-ganz catheter was placed into the pulmonary artery, and the mean blood pressure, the heart rate, the pulmonary artery pressure, the pulmonary wedge pressure, the right atrial pressure, the cardiac output, and the stroke volume were measured at rest and on exertion before and after seven days' treatment with oral nebivolol (5 mg/day). while the blood pressure and the heart rate decreased significantly, the pulmonary artery and wedge pressures, as well as the right atrial pressure and the cardiac output, did not change during treatment. the stroke volume increased significantly. the maintained cardiac output cannot be explained by any changes in preload or afterload; instead a positive inotropic mechanism must be assumed. unlike other b-blockers it seems to be possible to treat patients with heart failure with nebivolol without causing the hemodynamic situation to deteriorate.
interferon system and natural killer cell activity in myasthenia gravis. the autoimmune response in myasthenia gravis is well characterized, but little is known about the mechanisms initiating it. we have studied the interferon system and natural killer cell activity in 25 patients with myasthenia gravis and compared them to 68 healthy subjects and 96 patients with acute viral infections. forty-four per cent of patients had circulating interferon (greater than 16 mu/ml), and in a similar proportion their peripheral blood mononuclear cells were in an antiviral state, i.e., showed low levels of viral replication when infected by vesicular stomatitis virus. spontaneous in vitro interferon production by patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells was also common (greater than 10 mu/ml, 32 per cent), while the response to the alpha-interferon inducer poly i:c was lower than expected, possibly reflecting the already high state of activation of the interferon system. these results were essentially similar to those obtained in patients with viral illnesses and differed significantly from healthy controls. in many myasthenia gravis patients (16 of 22, 73 per cent), a markedly deficient natural killer cell activity was found, with a median cytotoxicity of 6.5 per cent compared to 29 per cent in healthy subjects (p less than 0.005). thus, many patients with myasthenia gravis have evidence of an activated interferon system and defective natural killer cell activity, suggesting an occult viral infection or reflecting nonspecific stimulation which may nevertheless contribute to the pathogenesis of the autoimmune response.
study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques. the status of hepatitis b virus dna was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis. this liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. the results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis b core and surface antigens. there was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis b viral dna by in situ hybridization and absence of hbc and hbsag in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. these results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature.
properties of strains of escherichia coli o26:h11 in relation to their enteropathogenic or enterohemorrhagic classification. thirty-seven strains of escherichia coli o26:h11 from infants and calves with diarrhea were examined for properties associated with enteropathogenic (epec) or enterohemorrhagic e. coli (ehec). strains were heterogeneous with respect to vero cytotoxin (vt) production and hybridization with the ehec plasmid-specific (cvd419) probe; 26 strains produced vt1; 1 produced vt2. twenty-four of 27 vt+ strains and 5 of 10 vt- strains hybridized with the cvd419 probe and produced enterohemolysin; these properties are characteristic of ehec. the strains did not hybridize with the epec adherence factor probe, a property characteristic of some epec. nevertheless, 36 strains adhered to hep-2 cells in a localized manner and were positive by the fluorescence actin staining (fas) test that is considered to correlate with the ability to cause attaching and effacing lesions in vivo. epec and ehec cause these lesions. although the fas test appeared to be the most general pathogenicity test for the o26:h11 strains, it could not be used to assign strains specifically to epec or ehec groups.
primary chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and/or surgery for children with localized sarcoma of the bladder, prostate, vagina, uterus, and cervix. a comparison of the results in intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma studies i and ii. a major objective of the second intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study (irs-ii) (1978 to 1984) was to preserve the bladder without compromising the survival of children with localized genitourinary sarcomas arising in or near the bladder. after incisional biopsy, 109 patients with localized, gross residual sarcoma of the prostate (43 patients), bladder (43 patients), vagina (20 patients), or cervix/uterine corpus (3 patients) were treated with vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (vac). after two to four drug courses, radiation therapy and/or surgery were used to treat patients with residual or recurrent tumor. the 3-year survival rate of patients treated on this primary chemotherapy regimen (70%) was similar to that of the primary surgery regimens of irs-i (78%; p = 0.46), but the 3-year disease-free survival rate was significantly inferior (52% versus 70%; p = 0.02). since the irs-ii encouraged bladder preservation at the onset of therapy, the percentage of patients with bladder and prostate tumors who retained the bladder was initially substantially higher in irs-ii (97%) than in irs-i (58%). however, the percentages of 95 patients with bladder-prostate (bp) tumors in irs-ii who retained the bladder and were alive at 2 and 3 years after starting treatment were only 33% and 22%, respectively, compared with 26% and 23%, respectively, in the 66 patients with bp tumors in irs-i. thus, sequential treatment with primary chemotherapy, followed by radiation therapy and/or surgery as given in irs-ii, failed to improve the eventual bladder salvage rate.
urological manifestations of hiv-related disease. a case of aids-associated testicular seminoma, kaposi's sarcoma and possible intracranial lymphoma. a wide variety of pathologies afflicting the genitourinary tract can be displayed by patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), including both infective and neoplastic conditions. treatment can often be offered for such conditions using a combination of therapeutic approaches. these conditions should be looked for specifically in patients with hiv infection as treatment may improve their quality of life. a case is presented of a testicular seminoma (appearing in association with an intracranial mass and kaposi's sarcoma) in a male patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids); he made a good response to orchiectomy and radiotherapy for his seminoma. a short review is also given of the range of hiv-associated genitourinary pathologies which have been described to date.
treatment of wegener's granulomatosis with intermittent high-dose intravenous cyclophosphamide purpose: concerns regarding the long-term toxicity of daily cyclophosphamide (cp) therapy for the systemic vasculitides have led us to evaluate alternative approaches to treatment in an attempt to achieve comparable efficacy with less toxicity. this study sought to determine the efficacy, toxicity, and immunologic effects of glucocorticoids (gc) and intermittent high-dose intravenous cp ("pulse" cp) in the treatment of 14 patients with wegener's granulomatosis (wg). patients and methods: the diagnosis of active wg was supported by a typical clinical presentation and histopathologic findings of vasculitis, granulomatous inflammation, and tissue necrosis. gc treatment was initially provided on a daily basis and later tapered to an alternate-day schedule if vasculitis remained inactive. pulse cp treatment was initially administered once a month for 6 months. if after 6 months remission had been attained and gc therapy had been discontinued, then pulse cp treatment was given at less frequent intervals thereafter. treatment and evaluation were provided for participants as inpatients in a clinical research center (national institutes of health). results: thirteen of 14 patients (93%) initially experienced unequivocal improvement with pulse cp therapy, and seven of 14 (50%) achieved remission within 4 months. however, treatment was associated with significant toxicity in two patients and later relapses in nine patients, so that a total of 79% either failed to achieve sustained remission or were unable to continue therapy. three of 14 (21%) patients have achieved sustained remissions with the pulse cp protocol and one additional patient (who had a limited exacerbation of wg) continues to receive that therapy after 14 to 22 months (mean 17 months). conclusions: the use of pulse cp and gc therapy in 14 patients with wg was associated with a high initial response rate. however, failure to respond initially to treatment, to sustain improvement, or to tolerate continued treatment was noted in 79% of patients within a period of 1 to 22 months. these observations indicate that this particular pulse cp protocol does not achieve a high degree of lasting efficacy.
management of cushing's syndrome secondary to adrenal adenoma during pregnancy. this report discusses our experience with two patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy as treatment for cushing's syndrome secondary to an adrenal adenoma. previously only five patients with this clinical problem who underwent unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy had been reported. we have reviewed the world literature on cushing's syndrome in pregnancy secondary to an adrenal adenoma. a total of 19 patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy for this problem after the completion of pregnancy were identified. the review of world literature and the two patients who are the subject of this report were the basis of our analysis of fetal death, neonatal complications, and maternal complications in seven pregnancies during which unilateral adrenalectomy was performed (group 1) compared to the 19 pregnancies that were associated with unilateral adrenalectomy at the completion of pregnancy (group 2). of the seven pregnancies in group 1, one fetal death and no neonatal complications occurred, but fetal death and neonatal complications occurred in 12 of the 19 pregnancies in group 2. four of the seven mothers in group 1 had complications; 16 of the 19 mothers in group 2 had complications. this study suggests that adrenalectomy during pregnancy should be considered as a therapeutic option in the management of cushing's syndrome secondary to an adrenal cortical adenoma.
septic streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis. we describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to streptococcus milleri. in both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology. surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case. longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery. despite confused nomenclature streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity.
comparison of frtl-5 cell growth in vitro with that of xenotransplanted cells and the thyroid of the recipient mouse. the present work was designed to compare in vitro cell growth kinetics with in vivo growth under conditions as similar as possible using labeling with [3h]thymidine. to this purpose, frtl-5 cells were cultured as monolayers and as three-dimensional spheroids embedded in collagen gels and transplanted simultaneously into nude mice treated with perchlorate and a low iodine diet. the growth of the transplants was compared to that of the thyroids in host mice. in the intact thyroid, the fraction of [3h]thymidine-labeled follicular cells (flc; 24-h labeling) increased sluggishly to a maximum of 10% after 3 weeks of goitrogen exposure, with a subsequent autoregulatory decrease to 3% at 7 weeks. a 4-fold higher flc was found in six adenomas, indicating focal failure of growth-restraining mechanisms. in nonconfluent monolayer cultures the flc was as high as 90%, even within large individual clusters where cells are in tight mutual contact. solid, highly cellular grafts growing from transplanted monodispersed cells showed an average flc of 20%, which is 5 times higher than the flc in the identically stimulated mouse thyroid. in collagen-embedded cells, forming three-dimensional spheroids, the mean flc decreased from 70% at 1 week in vitro (40% in vivo) to 20% at 3 weeks both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting effective auto-regulation of excessive growth in both conditions. however, these flc were again much higher than the 3% flc in simultaneously assessed host thyroids. the difference remained throughout the 45-day period studied. we conclude that frtl-5 cells growing as monolayers and as three-dimensional spheroids in vitro or after xenotransplantation in vivo invariably show much higher proliferation rates under comparable environmental conditions than the normal follicular epithelium in the thyroids of host mice. the one exception is the confluent monolayer with near-zero growth, while densely packed three-dimensional transplants still grow intensively. although growth-retarding cell to cell interactions are also clearly operative in growing frtl-5 cells, they are less effective than those dampening the replication rate of the thyrocytes within the monolayer hull of normal follicles. a local failure of these mechanisms, allowing growth rates comparable to those of grafted frtl-5 cells results in adenoma formation in normal thyroids. these observations call for caution in the transfer of in vitro growth studies with frtl-5 cells to in vivo conditions prevailing in the normal thyroid.
the neck-eye reflex in patients with reduced vestibular and optokinetic function. it is accepted that the neck-eye loop (cervico-ocular reflex, cor) is enhanced following loss of vestibular function and that this helps to restore gaze stability during head movements. in this paper we address the question of which structures and/or mechanisms may participate in such plastic enhancement by investigating the cor in 2 patients with absent vestibular function and reduced smooth pursuit-optokinetic eye movements (sp-okn). the patients had multisystem atrophy involving the vestibular system and the cerebellum. the cor (elicited by angular motion of the trunk relative to the fixed head and angular motion of the head relative to the fixed trunk) was not enhanced in these 2 patients when compared with normal subjects, in contrast to previous findings in a group of patients with absent vestibular function alone. measurements of slow phase eye movement velocity during sp-okn stimuli and during combined cor-okn stimulation (head oscillation relative to the stationary trunk in the light) showed identical values in these two conditions, which indicates that the neck-eye loop did not contribute to gaze stability during head movements. the absence of plastic enhancement of the cor in these patients may be secondary to interruption of sp-okn pathways at various possible sites and/or to involvement of the vestibulocerebellum, which is known to mediate adaptive plasticity in the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
perinatal infection of human t-lymphotropic virus type i, the etiologic virus of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma. dna amplification of specific human t-lymphotropic virus type i sequences. a gene amplification technique, polymerase chain reaction, was used to detect human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i), the etiologic agent of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma, in mononuclear cells in peripheral blood and breast milk of ten htlv-i carrier gravida. the dna in umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells of the neonates born to the htlv-i carrier gravida were also amplified and examined for the possibility of htlv-i infection via placenta during pregnancy. the htlv-i sequences were detected both in the peripheral blood and milk of all ten carrier gravida by southern blot analysis of amplified dna. however, htlv-i proviral dna could not be detected in the cord blood of the carriers' neonates, indicating that transplacental infection of htlv-i should be rare and that postpartum infection via breast milk is a likely major perinatal transmission route.
long-chain (sphingoid) bases inhibit multistage carcinogenesis in mouse c3h/10t1/2 cells treated with radiation and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. sphingosine and other long-chain (sphingoid) bases inhibit protein kinase c, the putative cellular receptor for the tumor promoter phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (pma), and exert potent effects on diverse cell functions. we tested the ability of long-chain bases to modulate multistage carcinogenesis in mouse c3h/10t1/2 cells exposed to gamma-rays and pma. sphingosine and sphinganine completely blocked the enhancement of radiation-induced transformation by pma (promotion) and partially suppressed transformation by radiation alone. n-acetylsphingosine, a ceramide analog, did not inhibit transformation. sphingosine was rapidly taken up by the cells and metabolized; hence, the long-chain bases were added daily to achieve prolonged inhibition. long-chain bases inhibited protein kinase c activity in c3h/10t1/2 cells and suppressed the down-regulation of this enzyme by pma. our results establish that long-chain bases are highly effective inhibitors of carcinogenesis in this model. our results also indicate that the suppressive effects may be mediated, in part, by inhibition of protein kinase c. the data suggest that sphingosine and other long-chain bases derived from complex sphingolipids may act as cancer-preventative agents.
low-molecular-weight heparinoid compared with warfarin for prophylaxis of deep-vein thrombosis in patients who are operated on for fracture of the hip. a prospective, randomized trial. in a randomized, prospective trial, a low-molecular-weight heparinoid (org 10172 [lomoparan]) was compared with warfarin for efficacy and safety in preventing deep-vein thrombosis in 263 patients who had an operatively treated fracture of the hip. one group of patients received org 10172 in a dose of 750 units subcutaneously every twelve hours until the ninth postoperative day; on the seventh postoperative day, warfarin was added to the regimen. the other group received only warfarin. both drugs were begun preoperatively, immediately after the admission evaluation. in the patients who received warfarin, the desired prothrombin time was one and one-half times the control level. deep-vein thrombosis was detected by 125i-fibrinogen scanning and impedance plethysmography and was confirmed by phlebography and compression ultrasonography. deep-vein thrombosis was found in nine (7 per cent) of the 132 patients who received org 10172 and in twenty-eight (21 per cent) of the 131 patients who received warfarin (p less than 0.001). adverse reactions were not significantly different in the two groups. major bleeding complications occurred in eight patients in the org-10172 group, only four of whom were receiving the drug at the time of bleeding, and in five patients who were receiving warfarin (not significant). there was no difference in intraoperative loss of blood or in requirements for transfusion. we concluded that the low-molecular-weight heparinoid org 10172 is a safe, convenient, effective antithrombotic agent for the prevention of venous thrombosis after an operation for fracture of the hip.
use of mohs micrographic surgery to establish quantitative proof of heightened tumor spread in basal cell carcinoma recurrent following radiotherapy. we compared 27 basal-cell carcinomas (bccs) recurrent following radiotherapy and subsequently excised by mohs micrographic surgery to a control group of bccs recurrent following other treatment modalities and similarly excised. mohs technique permitted precise, quantitative tumor assessment, obtained via a novel method utilizing three parameters: the number of surgical stages required for complete excision, the percentage increase between clinical preoperative tumor area and final postoperative defect area, and the presence of deep subcutaneous tissue invasion. figures for the postradiation group were larger in all three categories, with the latter two revealing statistically significant differences versus the nonradiation group. this study gives strong, direct quantitative support to the clinical impression that bcc recurrent following radiotherapy is a uniquely aggressive, invasive subset of recurrent bcc.
clinical validation of a miniature nuclear probe system for continuous on-line monitoring of cardiac function and st-segment a new, miniature cesium iodide/photodiode nuclear probe (the "cardioscint") has been developed for continuous on-line measurement of left ventricular function and the st-segment. ejection fraction (ef) measurements in 77 patients were compared with gated equilibrium radionuclide ventriculograms. the probe was positioned over the left ventricle by first using a blind positioning algorithm and then by using the gamma camera. background was measured both manually and automatically. there was good correlation between probe (positioned blind) and gamma camera ef with both manual (r = 0.80, n = 65) and automatic (r = 0.78, n = 66) backgrounds. use of the gamma camera did not significantly alter the results. correlation between the probe stroke counts and thermodilution-derived stroke index during atrial pacing in six subjects was also satisfactory (r = 0.69, n = 102). thus, the cardioscint is able to provide a reliable estimate of ef and can track rapid changes in cardiac volumes.
mechanisms associated with the generation of biologically active human immunodeficiency virus type 1 particles from defective proviruses. the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) is the etiological agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). hiv exhibits extensive genetic diversity and it is apparent that an infected individual contains different populations of distinct viral strains, a large proportion of which has been found surprisingly to be defective for replication. a similar phenomenon has also been observed with some cell lines that are known to produce infectious viral particles but harbor defective proviral genomes. here, we investigated the molecular basis of this phenomenon by cloning proviral genomes of hiv from a cell line that was capable of producing high titers of biologically active hiv particles that readily induced syncytia with cd4+ cell lines and peripheral blood lymphocytes. this cell line was found to contain five proviral genomes, all of which, when tested individually, failed to produce replication-competent viruses upon transfection into human cells. however, when a specific combination of two proviral genomes was used in such transfection studies, it was possible to obtain biologically active, replication-competent viral particles that infected and replicated in cd4+ cell lines and induced syncytia characteristic of hiv. such a result may be due to homologous recombination between proviral dnas occurring in cells after transfection and/or complementation of replication-defective proviral dnas. the diploid nature of the viral rna genome present in the viral particle may enable the persistence of defective hiv genomes.
thromboxane biosynthesis in cardiovascular diseases. sudden fissuring of an atherosclerotic plaque has been suggested as the primary trigger of transient spontaneous ischemia in both the coronary and cerebral circulation. measurements of urinary 11-dehydro-txb2 and 2,3-dinor-txb2, as well as results of aspirin trials, have suggested that episodic platelet activation at the site of this acute vascular lesion is mediated, at least partly, by enhanced thromboxane (tx) a2 biosynthesis. thus, episodic increases in metabolite excretion have been detected in unstable angina. aspirin (75-325 mg/day) prevents about one third of all fatal and nonfatal thrombotic events in this setting. that a similar "dynamic" thrombotic process occurs during the early phase of acute myocardial infarction is suggested by thromboxane metabolite measurements and by the results of the isis-2 trial showing a similar impact of short-term aspirin therapy to that seen in unstable angina. percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is associated with transiently enhanced txa2 biosynthesis and aspirin-suppressable periprocedural thrombotic complications. on the other hand, both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and type iia hypercholesterolemia are associated with a relatively reproducible and persisting abnormality of txa2-dependent platelet function. this association is likely to reflect a systemic rather than localized stimulus to platelet activation and a continuous rather than episodic alteration. low-dose (50 mg/day) aspirin can largely suppress thromboxane metabolite excretion in both diseases. thus, low-dose aspirin and/or selective prostaglandin h2/txa2-receptor antagonists may be important tools to test the hypothesis that txa2-dependent platelet activation represents an important transducer of the enhanced thrombotic risk associated with these metabolic abnormalities.
99mtc hm-pao spect in pediatric migraine. 99mtc hm-pao spect brain imaging was performed during the headache-free period in 19 young migraineurs, affected by common migraine (cm, 10 cases), classic migraine (clm, 6 cases) and hemiplegic migraine (hm, 3 cases). spect findings were negative in all 10 patients with cm, in 3 cases of clm and in 2 cases of hm. positive findings in the remaining 4 patients (3 cases of clm and 1 of hm) showed a decreased tracer distribution in the temporo-occipital regions (2 cases) and parietal regions (2 cases): the two with decreased temporo-occipital perfusion reported prodromal symptoms exclusively contralateral to the areas of hypoperfusion. an impaired regional cerebral vascular autoregulation may exist even during headache-free intervals in patients suffering from classic and hemiplegic migraine.
incisional hernioplasty with mersilene. thirty large incisional abdominal hernias (myoaponeurotic defects greater than 10 centimeters) were successfully repaired by a technique of incisional hernioplasty which implants a large mersilene (polyester fiber) prosthesis in the space between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum. the prosthesis extends far beyond the borders of the myoaponeurotic defect, and is solidly held in place by intra-abdominal pressure and later by fibrous ingrowth. the prosthesis protects against recurrence in two ways. first, it prevents peritoneal eventration by adhering to the visceral sac and rendering it indistensible. second, the prosthesis unites and consolidates the abdominal wall. consequently, the procedure uniquely exploits the very force which caused the hernia to prevent a recurrence. a prosthesis of mersilene is essential for success because it is supple and elastic enough to conform freely to the curvatures of the visceral sac, has the necessary grainy texture to grip the peritoneum and prevent slippage and is reactive enough to induce a rapid fibroblastic response to ensure fixation.
bone mineral density in spontaneous hypertension: differential effects of dietary calcium and sodium. dietary calcium and sodium have been postulated to modify both bone mineral status and blood pressure regulation in humans and animals. the spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr) manifests several defects in calcium metabolism that may contribute to its hypertension. blood pressure and bone mineral status were measured in shr and normotensive wistar-kyoto rats (wky) as a marker of whole animal calcium metabolism. in addition, the effect of alterations in dietary calcium and sodium on bone status were examined. at 6 weeks of age, seven male shr and seven male wky were placed on a control diet. at the same age, 28 shr and 28 wky were randomized to four diets containing either 2.0% or 0.1% calcium and 1.0% or 0.25% sodium. four markers of bone mineral status were analyzed: bone density measured by direct photon absorptiometry, and total bone calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium content measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. the shr exhibited significantly lower levels (p less than 0.001) of bone density and bone magnesium content than the wky, whereas bone phosphorus and calcium did not differ between the two strains. the 2.0% calcium diets resulted in increased bone density and bone calcium content, and lower bone magnesium in both strains. the 1.0% sodium diets were associated with decreased bone density in the shr, but not in the wky. these findings identify another indicator of disturbed calcium metabolism in the shr that may be related to impaired renal calcium handling. they are consistent with previously reported reductions in renal calcium reabsorption and decreased intestinal calcium transport in older shr.
spherical connective tissue inclusions in epithelial hyperplasia of the breast ("collagenous spherulosis"). partial myoepithelial differentiation is common in simple epithelial hyperplasia (epitheliosis) of the breast but functional myoepithelial differentiation with basement membrane production is exceedingly rare. a peculiar change of hyaline globules within benign epithelial hyperplasia has been recognised before as "collagenous spherulosis" and type iv collagen has been shown by immunohistochemistry. another seven cases are described which show the presence of laminin and collagens iv and iii within the proliferation. electron microscopy examination of two cases using material retrieved from the wax block showed varying degrees of myoepithelial differentiation of the cells immediately surrounding the spherules and basal lamina material, including mature collagen fibrils in one case. the degree of myoepithelial differentiation of the cells surrounding the spherules seemed to correlate with the differing types and amounts of extracellular matrix in the spherule. histopathologists should be aware of this rare change as it may be misinterpreted as in situ carcinoma.
daytime hypertension in obstructive sleep apnea. prevalence and contributing risk factors. we examined the prevalence of daytime hypertension in a modern sample of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa) and assessed the relative risk factors contributing to the development of hypertension in this disorder. daytime hypertension was present in 92 (45 percent) of 206 male and female patients with osa. stepwise logistic regression revealed that only age and body mass index (bmi) were predictors of hypertension in this population. a subsample of 152 male patients with osa was then compared to 904 men identified from a geographically and ethnically similar general population. when one controlled for age and bmi, the prevalence of hypertension in the two groups was the same except for those aged 25 to 44 years who were markedly obese (bmi greater than 31 kg/m2). in this group, 47 percent of the patients with osa were hypertensive vs 26 percent of control subjects (p less than 0.05). our data suggest that the high prevalence of hypertension in osa is primarily related to age and the excess obesity seen in these patients. in morbidly obese young patients with osa, factors directly related to osa may also be contributing to the development of hypertension. with increasing age, other competitive risks may obscure any independent effect that osa may exert.
intraepithelial anchoring fibril components. cultured human keratinocytes and cultured human cervical carcinoma cells (me-180) contained intracellular pools of antigens that reacted with the anchoring fibril antibodies af1 and af2. in keratinocytes, these antigens formed a basement membrane-like structure near the apical portions of the cells. using flow cytometric techniques, pretreatment of the me-180 cells with acetone revealed large intracellular pools of antigen. the intracellular epitope was calcium sensitive. some forms of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa have retention of intracellular portions of the anchoring fibril suggesting a relation of the intracellular anchoring fibril antigens to that disease.
arthroscopic treatment of temporomandibular joint locking resulting from disc derangement: two-year results. this article reports 2-year postarthroscopic surgical treatment data for 18 subjects (17 female and 1 male) who had a diagnosis of restricted mandibular movement due to an internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint (tmj). these subjects had been treated by an average of 2.1 +/- 1.1 doctors for their tmj problem before seeing the surgeon for arthroscopic treatment. the subjects' mean pain score at the final time point (21 to 30 months after surgery) was decreased by 57% in usual pain intensity. jaw function showed an average improvement of 67%. these subjects also showed a 13-mm mean increase in their maximum active opening ability at the 2-year postsurgical time point. slight to definite clicking noises were present presurgically in 11 of 18 patients, and similar joint noises were reported in 14 of 18 patients postsurgically. the mean overall improvement was rated as 8.18 +/- 2.4, with 10 the highest possible rating. one subject rated her improvement as 0, two subjects rated their improvement as 6 out of 10. no significant morbidity was reported by the subjects as a result of their surgery.
endothelium-derived relaxing factors. a perspective from in vivo data. we review below published studies of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in vivo. endothelium-dependent vasodilation has been demonstrated in conduit arteries in vivo and in the cerebral, coronary, mesenteric, and femoral vascular beds as well as in the microcirculation of the brain and the microcirculation of cremaster muscle. the available evidence, although not complete, strongly suggests that the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by acetylcholine in the cerebral microcirculation is a nitrosothiol. the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by bradykinin in this vascular bed is an oxygen radical generated in association with enhanced arachidonate metabolism via cyclooxygenase. in the microcirculation of skeletal muscle, on the other hand, the vasodilation from bradykinin is mediated partly by prostacyclin and partly by an endothelium-derived relaxing factor similar to that generated by acetylcholine. basal secretion of endothelium-derived relaxing factor is controversial in vivo but is usually present in vitro. on the other hand, it appears that endothelium-derived relaxing factor mediates flow-dependent vasodilation in both large vessels and in the microcirculation in vivo. the generation and release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor from endothelium may be abnormal in a variety of conditions including acute and chronic hypertension, atherosclerosis, and ischemia followed by reperfusion. several mechanisms for these abnormalities have been identified. these include inability to generate endothelium-derived relaxing factor or destruction of endothelium-derived relaxing factor by oxidants after its release in the extracellular space. these abnormalities in endothelium-dependent relaxation may contribute to the vascular abnormalities in these conditions.
expression of p-glycoprotein in adult t-cell leukemia cells. we have examined the expression of p-glycoprotein (p-gp) in adult t-cell leukemia (atl) samples from 25 patients. based on immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody against p-gp, c219, 8 of 20 atl patients were p-gp positive at the initial presentation. all 6 patients at the relapsed stage were p-gp positive, and refractory to chemotherapy. the expression of mdr1 mrna in p-gp-positive atl cells was increased at the relapsed stage of one patient. p-gp of this patient was photolabeled with [3h]azidopine and the labeling was inhibited with nimodipine, vinblastine and progesterone. these results suggest that p-gp expressed in atl cells from patients at relapsed stage has the same binding site(s) for the drugs as that in multidrug resistant cells, and is correlated with the refractory nature of the cells to chemotherapy.
depression and recovery of right ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass. transient left ventricular dysfunction is commonly described in association with cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb). we evaluated changes in right ventricular (rv) function after elective cardiac surgery in 24 patients with normal preoperative cardiac function. in all, irrespective of distribution of coronary artery disease or use of pharmacologic support, a transient depression of rv systolic function with respect to both preinduction and initial postoperative (postop) values occurred 262 +/- 116 min post-cpb as represented by a decrease in rv stroke volume index (25.0 +/- 1.7 vs. 33.4 +/- 1.9 ml/m2 postop) and rv ejection fraction (31.0 +/- 2.2 vs. 45.6 +/- 2.5% postop), and an increase in rv end-systolic and end-diastolic volume indices. this depression responded readily to pharmacologic therapy within 2 h, resolved within 24 h, and had no adverse consequences in these otherwise healthy patients. further studies are needed to identify the cause of this phenomenon and its importance in patients with preexisting cardiac dysfunction.
hypothalamic or central obesity is associated with an early rise in plasma insulin concentration. insulin levels in a 7-year-old boy with hyperphagia and obesity following an episode of meningoencephalitis were studied sequentially during the course of progressive weight gain. high fasting insulin levels (1183 pmol/l) and strikingly high insulin release in response to glucose (7892 pmol/l) were found within weeks of the onset of the illness. the abnormality in insulin secretion occurred prior to the marked weight gain. hyperinsulinemia was not accompanied by hypoglycemia. early hyperinsulinemia may be a primary event in the development of hyperphagia and obesity following hypothalamic injury.
zollinger-ellison syndrome: prospective assessment of abdominal us in the localization of gastrinomas. the ability of abdominal ultrasound (us) to help localize gastrinomas was prospectively studied in 79 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome. the results were assessed by means of laparotomy, autopsy, or percutaneous liver biopsy. for hepatic gastrinoma, us had a sensitivity of 63% and a specificity of 100%, with a positive predictive value of 100% and a negative predictive value of 89%. us was slightly less sensitive for detecting gastrinoma in the liver than were computed tomography (ct) (66%) and selective angiography (78%). for detection of extrahepatic gastrinoma, us had a sensitivity of 30%, a specificity of 94%, a positive predictive value of 100%, and a negative predictive value of 25%. us enabled detection of tumor in eight cases not detected with ct and in four not detected with angiography. specificity for extrahepatic gastrinoma was similar for all three modalities (89%-95%). ct and us were equally effective for the detection of extrahepatic gastrinoma, and angiography was significantly more effective than both us and ct (p less than .01). the authors conclude that us, although of low sensitivity, remains useful as the initial imaging modality in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome.
urogenital dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum. the long-term urogenital dysfunctions in 46 of 104 surviving patients submitted to abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma between 1972 and 1986 were collected and assessed. urinary retention was present in 41 percent of the men and 35 percent of women, while incontinence was present in 10 percent of men and 29 percent of women. impotence was reported by 59 percent of the males, all sexually active before surgery. dyspareunia was present in 50 percent of the women in the study. the possibility of treating prostatic hypertrophy concurrently with abdominoperineal resection in selected cases to avoid urinary retention is discussed. the limited number of responders to the survey may interfere with the global statistical significance.
peritoneal mesothelioma: an unusual cause of esophageal achalasia. secondary esophageal achalasia due to malignancy is a rare condition; only 53 such cases have been reported to date. sixty-two percent of the cases were due to gastric adenocarcinoma. mesothelioma of the peritoneum is an uncommon neoplasm. the usual presenting symptoms are abdominal pain, abdominal mass, or abdominal distention. the patient we are reporting had peritoneal mesothelioma which presented with dysphagia and weight loss, in addition to the radiological and manometric picture of achalasia. secondary achalasia was suspected clinically, and was confirmed by computed tomography and laparotomy. the diagnosis of peritoneal mesothelioma was made only by histopathological examination. we are not aware of any other report documenting the association of peritoneal mesothelioma and achalasia.
intermittent vs maintenance medication in schizophrenia. two-year results. this is a 2-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 101 patients, evaluating the relative efficacy of intermittent medication (given only when the patient shows early signs of relapse) compared with moderate doses of maintenance medication for stable schizophrenic outpatients. patients were dropped from the study if they had three prodromal episodes in 1 year or if an episode lasted more than 9 weeks. fourteen percent of patients given maintenance treatment were dropped from the study compared with 46% of intermittently treated patients. relapse rates were 16% for patients given maintenance treatment and 30% for intermittently treated patients, a nonsignificant difference. intermittently treated patients were receiving significantly less medication, but there were no differences found in drug side effects. there appears to be no advantage in using the intermittent approach, but we found that the use of an early intervention strategy reduced the relapse and rehospitalization rates for these patients.
effects of acute ethanol ingestion and burn injury on serum immunoglobulin. previous studies have found that acute ethanol ingestion before burn injury caused further impairment of mitogenic response of b lymphocytes compared with burn injury alone. the principal role of b lymphocytes is immunoglobulin production. this study was designed to determine the effect of acute ethanol ingestion on circulating immunoglobulin levels before injury. serum concentrations of igg, igm, and iga in rats were measured with the use of radial immunodiffusion plates at 4 days after a 30% burn injury in animals that had received a single ingestion of 3.0 ml ethanol per kilogram of body weight. the immunoglobulin levels were compared with appropriate controls. a 30% burn injury produced significant decreases in serum igg and iga levels but not in igm levels, whereas acute ethanol ingestion only decreased iga levels. acute ethanol ingestion before injury did not induce any further significant decrease than did burn injury alone.
reconstructive and rehabilitative aspects of head and neck cancer in the elderly. age should not be considered a contraindication to adequate head and neck oncologic surgery. reconstructive efforts should be by the most direct means to attain restoration of form and function in one stage. the next significant breakthroughs in the battle against cancer may well come on the cellular or molecular level. we endorse the plea of endicott for increased education and research directed at the problem of head and neck cancer and rehabilitation as they relate to the geriatric patient.
neurological sequelae of cerebral malaria in children. out of 604 gambian children admitted with falciparum malaria to one hospital between september and december, 1988, 308 had cerebral malaria and 203 were severely anaemic (haemoglobin less than 60 g/l). 14% of those with cerebral malaria died, as did 7.8% of those with severe anaemia. 32 (12%) of children surviving cerebral malaria had residual neurological deficit. 69 other children were admitted with clinical features strongly suggestive of cerebral malaria but with negative blood films; 16 of these died and 3 had residual neurological deficits. the commonest sequelae of cerebral malaria were hemiplegia (23 cases), cortical blindness (11), aphasia (9), and ataxia (6). factors predisposing to sequelae included prolonged coma, protracted convulsions, severe anaemia, and a biphasic clinical course characterised by recovery of consciousness followed by recurrent convulsions and coma. at follow up 1-6 months later over half these children had made a full recovery, but a quarter were left with a major residual neurological deficit. cerebral malaria in childhood may be an important cause of neurological handicap in the tropics.
prostaglandin e2-induced diarrhea in mice: importance of colonic secretion. the present study has investigated the basis for induction of diarrhea by prostaglandin (pg)e2 in mice. when given i.p., pge2 induced a dose- and time-dependent diarrhea; the shortest post-treatment time for diarrhea onset was approximately 7 min, at a pge2 dose of 200 micrograms/kg. at this dose, pge2 also produced accumulation of fluid in the small intestine and in the colon (enteropooling). the enteropooling reached its maximum by 9 min and did not decrease until approximately 11 min (i.e., 2 to 4 min after the mean time for diarrhea onset). pge2 treatment altered neither gastric emptying nor gastrointestinal propulsion, but strongly enhanced the expulsion of a glass bead from the colon (i.e., decreased the time to bead expulsion). the shortest time to expulsion of the glass bead was observed at 200 micrograms/kg i.p. the induction of diarrhea by pge2 was unaffected by cecectomy, or sham-cecectomy, but the dose-response curve for time to onset of diarrhea by i.p. pge2 was displaced to the right in animals with ligations of the ileo-ceco-colonic (icc) junctions. the intraluminal fluid accumulation in the colon, evaluated in mice with icc ligations, was increased by pge2 administration within 2 min and remained greater than in vehicle-treated animals until the onset of diarrhea. the stimulation of colonic bead expulsion produced by i.p. pge2 in control mice was not observed in animals with acute icc ligations, even at i.p. doses up to 800 micrograms/kg.
posterolateral rotatory instability of the elbow. recurrent posterolateral rotatory instability of the elbow is an apparently undescribed clinical condition that is difficult to diagnose. we treated five patients, ranging in age from five to forty years, who had such a lesion and in whom the instability could be demonstrated only by what we call the posterolateral rotatory-instability test. this test involves supination of the forearm and application of a valgus moment and an axial compression force to the elbow while it is flexed from full extension. the elbow is reduced in full extension and must be subluxated as it is flexed in order to obtain a positive test result (a sudden reduction of the subluxation). flexion of more than about 40 degrees produces a sudden palpable and visible reduction of the radiohumeral joint. the elbow does not subluxate without provocation. the cause for this condition, we think, is laxity of the ulnar part of the lateral collateral ligament, which allows a transient rotatory subluxation of the ulnohumeral joint and a secondary dislocation of the radiohumeral joint. the annular ligament remains intact, so the radio-ulnar joint does not dislocate. operative repair of the lax ulnar part of the lateral collateral ligament eliminated the posterolateral rotatory instability, as revealed intraoperatively in our five patients.
diagnosis of recent myocardial infarction with quantitative backscatter imaging: preliminary studies. acute myocardial ischemia and chronic myocardial infarction may be recognized with ultrasound tissue characterization techniques because of myocardial acoustic changes caused by reduced perfusion and/or collagen deposition. our purpose was to study the acoustic properties of recent myocardial infarction when the predominating pathologic finding was myocardial edema and leukocytic infiltration. we used a new quantitative backscatter imaging system to study 18 patients 9 +/- 5 days after myocardial infarction (eight patients with anteroseptal myocardial infarction and 10 with inferior myocardial infarction) and 20 normal subjects. the cyclic variation of relative integrated backscatter (end-diastolic minus end-systolic) was calculated from on-line measurements. standard parasternal long- and short-axis and apical four- and two-chamber views were obtained. in the anteroseptal myocardial infarction group, the cyclic variation of relative integrated backscatter was lower in the septum (1.5 +/- 1.6 db) than in the posteroinferior wall (3.2 +/- 1.2 db); however, the sample size of only three patients (of eight patients imaged) in the latter group prevented statistical comparison. the cyclic variation of relative integrated backscatter in the infarcted septum was less than the measurement obtained in the septum of the control group (4.3 +/- 2.4 db, p less than 0.05). in the inferior infarction group, the cyclic variation of integrated backscatter in the posteroinferior wall (1.8 +/- 1.7 db) was not significantly different from the measurement obtained in the septum (3.7 +/- 3.6 db); however, the cyclic variation in the posteroinferior wall was significantly less than that obtained in the control group posteroinferior wall (5.7 +/- 1.7 db, p less than 0.05).
immunohistochemical demonstration of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa. specimens of normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa from 52 patients were analysed by immunohistochemistry using a monospecific polyclonal antiserum against human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (psti). in normal colonic mucosa psti was found in the goblet cells in the basal parts of the crypts. in adenomas of tubular, villous, and tubulo-villous types psti was also found in the upper parts of the polyps, usually occurring in the regeneration zone. there was a more intense staining reaction in polyps with increased atypia. carcinomas of different types and of various grades of differentiation and of in situ type did not contain psti. these findings indicate that psti could be a marker for adenomatous rather than carcinomatous epithelium in the colon. furthermore, the absence of the inhibitor in malignant cells might facilitate tissue invasion by malignant cells because of deficient protease inhibition.
spasticity in spinal cord injured persons: quantitative effects of baclofen and placebo treatments. spasticity commonly occurs after a spinal cord injury and is characterized by increased resistance to passive movement of peripheral joints. this study examined the effect of an antispasticity medication on stiffness from the myotatic reflex response generated by passive sinusoidal ankle motion. a repeated measures, multiple base-line, single-subject, double-blind design was employed. the independent variable was spasticity medication treatment, where the levels were 40 mg/day and 80 mg/day of baclofen v placebo treatment. viscous and elastic stiffness measurements were taken at the ankle joint during a placebo base-line phase and during treatment with baclofen for five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injuries. ankle sinusoidal oscillation frequencies were from 3 to 12 hz during test sessions. mean viscous and elastic stiffness scores for all frequencies were calculated for each phase of the study. randomization tests of mean changes in stiffness measurements between each treatment phase of the study failed to provide any convincing evidence of a significant treatment effect for reduction of spasticity in the traumatic spinal cord injured subjects studied. further testing is needed to exclude potential confounding factors before this conclusion can be confirmed. the results suggest that baclofen is not a universal treatment of choice for all individuals with spasticity resulting from traumatic spinal cord injury.
left main percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with the autoperfusion catheter in an animal model. left main coronary angioplasty is associated with high risk because of interruption of blood flow to much of the left ventricle during balloon inflation. an "autoperfusion" balloon angioplasty catheter that allows blood to flow passively distal to an inflated balloon was tested in dogs and compared with inflations with standard balloon catheters. during 3 min occlusions of the left main coronary artery with the autoperfusion catheter, regional myocardial blood flow was preserved at 0.60 +/- 0.14 ml/min/g, compared with 0.07 +/- 0.03 ml/min/g during inflation with standard balloon catheters (p less than 0.01). similarly, at the end of 3 min of inflation, left ventricular systolic pressure and dp/dt were maintained with autoperfusion catheter inflation, but they were severely depressed after standard angioplasty balloon inflation. all seven dogs survived autoperfusion balloon inflation, whereas five of seven developed sustained ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation during or after standard balloon inflation. thus, distal blood flow, hemodynamics, and survival were preserved during autoperfusion balloon inflation in the left main coronary artery.
prognosis of wilsonian chronic active hepatitis. twenty of 320 patients with wilson's disease initially presented with chemical and laboratory features of chronic active hepatitis, confirmed histologically in 17. when first seen, cirrhosis was present in all 20 and was complicated by ascites and/or jaundice in 11. within 1 week to 8 years of the onset of over liver disease the diagnosis of wilson's disease was established, and treatment with d-penicillamine was promptly initiated in 19 patients. one man refused treatment and died 4 months later. treated patients received d-penicillamine or trientine for a total of 264 patient-years (median, 14 patient-years). abnormal water retention, for which salt restriction and diuretics were added to penicillamine or trientine, disappeared in all but 1 of the patients so affected. symptomatic improvement and virtually normal levels of serum albumin, bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase followed within 1 year in the majority of subjects. one woman died after 9 months of treatment. two patients, who became noncompliant with the therapeutic regimen after 9 and 17 years of successful pharmacological treatment, required liver transplants. these results indicate that the prognosis of specifically treated wilsonian chronic active hepatitis is very good in spite of the presence of cirrhosis.
head and neck cancer and ageing: a retrospective study in 438 patients. to evaluate whether age over 70 years represents a prognostic factor in head and neck cancer, we reviewed all cases observed between 1981 and 1984. four hundred and thirty-eight (438) patients were considered in relation to three age groups (less than or equal to 59, 60-69, and greater than or equal to 70 years, defined as non-elderly, mid-elderly and elderly respectively). the main parameters analyzed included histological diagnosis (no difference emerged among the three age groups); anatomical site (hypopharyngeal carcinoma was most frequent in non-elderly patients); tnm stage (an higher incidence of early stages was seen in the elderly); performance status (better in the non-elderly); previous illnesses (life-style related diseases were more frequent in the non-elderly); contraindications to surgery (more frequent in the elderly); surgical treatment ('en bloc' resections were more often employed in the non-elderly); post-operative complications and local control (no difference between the three groups); multiple primary malignancies (head and neck, oesophagus and lung were more frequent in non-elderly patients) and survival (no difference). although age affects several features of head and neck cancer patients, it does not appear from the present study to be an independent prognostic factor for local control and survival. with regard to survival, stage appeared to be the most important prognostic factor.
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation. a newly identified condition. a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described. in the affected family, at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life. three members of the family have been studied in detail. each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night. constipation was an associated symptom, in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation. clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance. the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity. anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter. two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain. the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes, consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis. in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline, isoprenaline, carbachol, dimethylpiperazinium, and electrical-field stimulation. immunohistochemical studies for substance p, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neuropeptide y, and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue. a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized.
glomerular binding and contractile response to angiotensin ii in rats with chronic experimental cirrhosis of the liver. 1. the effects of angiotensin ii on glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were studied in surgically instrumented conscious control and cirrhotic rats. in addition, angiotensin ii binding and the contractile response to angiotensin ii were studied in glomeruli isolated from cirrhotic and control rats. 2. cirrhotic rats had a higher glomerular filtration rate and a higher renal plasma flow than control animals. a non-pressor dose of angiotensin ii induced small but significant decreases in glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow in both control and cirrhotic rats, the effect on renal plasma flow being the most pronounced. 3. plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations were similar in control and cirrhotic rats. 4. the cross-sectional area of glomeruli from cirrhotic rats was 42% greater than that of glomeruli from control animals. angiotensin ii (10(-9) mol/l) decreased the cross-sectional area of glomeruli from control animals by 6.4 +/- 0.9% and of glomeruli from cirrhotic rats by 6.6 +/- 0.8% (p = not significant for comparison between control and cirrhotic animals). 5. there were no differences between control and cirrhotic rats in the affinity of angiotensin ii for its glomerular receptors. however, the angiotensin ii receptor density was higher in cirrhotic than in control rats, thereby producing an increased total angiotensin ii binding in cirrhotic rats. 6. since no functional differences between control and cirrhotic animals were present in the response to angiotensin ii, even though angiotensin ii binding was increased, a post-receptor blockade of the angiotensin ii signal could be present in cirrhotic rats.
postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: prognostic value of dna ploidy and post-recurrent survival. eighty-six patients with non-small cell lung cancer who underwent curative operations were postoperatively randomized to control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups. in the adjuvant chemotherapy group, patients received cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy 3 or 4 weeks after operation and the average cycle of chemotherapy was 2.3 (from 1 to 6 cycles). in this trial, no evidence of improved survival or delayed recurrence was seen in the treated patients. in multivariate analysis of prognostic variables, the most important factor was the pathological stage of the disease and, second, dna ploidy of the primary tumor. although histology (squamous vs. non-squamous cell carcinoma) had a trend to influence the survival, it was not a significant factor. a total of 33 patients had recurrences: 17 and 16 patients were in control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups, respectively. postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy group was significantly shorter than that in the control group, as determined by the generalized wilcoxon and log rank tests. median survival time after recurrence in the control and adjuvant therapy groups was 18.5 and 7.5 months, respectively. these results suggest that dna ploidy of primary tumors should be considered as a prognostic factor in future trials of adjuvant therapy. furthermore, analysis of postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy trial, as well as that of overall and disease-free survivals should be done.
comparison of two doses of endotracheal epinephrine in a cardiac arrest model. study objective: the objective of this study was to measure plasma catecholamine levels and the cardiovascular response before and after endotracheal administration of epinephrine in a swine cardiac arrest model. design: prospective, controlled laboratory investigation. type of participants: twenty-one swine weighing 10 to 12 kg, anesthetized with ketamine and alpha-chloralose and ventilated with room air. interventions: ventricular fibrillation was induced with 90 v of 60 hz current delivered to the right ventricle by transvenous pacemaker. blood samples for epinephrine were drawn before arrest and every two minutes thereafter. at five minutes, external mechanical cardiac compressions were initiated. nine animals received no further therapy and served as controls. two groups of six animals received either 0.01 mg/kg or 0.1 mg/kg of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube at ten and 20 minutes. blood samples were assayed for epinephrine. measurements: arterial blood pressure, lead ii ecg, and plasma epinephrine. main results: swine receiving epinephrine 0.01 mg/kg had an increase in epinephrine levels after drug administration, but these were not significantly different from control levels. the 0.1-mg/kg dose group had a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels compared with controls and the 0.01-mg/kg dose group after receiving epinephrine at ten and 20 minutes. these increases were from 14 +/- 3 to 215 +/- 40 ng/ml (+/- sem) at 12 minutes after arrest and from 151 +/- 56 to 402 +/- 80 ng/ml at 22 minutes after arrest. conclusion: these data suggest that standard dosing of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube during arrest does not produce significant increases in plasma catecholamines or blood pressure. epinephrine 0.1 mg/kg produces a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels, but it is not sufficient to produce a significant change in blood pressure.
association of helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy. purpose: to determine the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease. patients and methods: forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at massachusetts general hospital were studied over a period of 18 months, as well as 24 patients undergoing ercp for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease. two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis. sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay. all specimens were processed in a blind fashion. chi-square test with yates' correction was used for statistical analysis. results: h. pylori was found in 31 of 46 (67%) study patients and in six of 24 (25%) control patients (by microbiologic or histologic techniques) (p less than 0.01). h. pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60% of patients without ulcers. no association between h. pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed. h. pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum, although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis. compared with histology, serologic assays for igg and iga antibodies to h. pylori had sensitivities of 100% and 94%, and specificities of 86% and 76%, respectively. reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94% while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80%. conclusions: h. pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ercp. multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection. serologies of igg and iga were sensitive and specific for h. pylori, suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection. the frequent association of h. pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism.
entrapment neuropathy of the median nerve at the level of the ligament of struthers. the presence of a supracondylar process and struthers' ligament is a rare congenital anomaly that may cause compression of either the median nerve, the brachial artery, or both. the authors present a case in which the supracondylar process and struthers' ligament compressed both the median nerve and the brachial artery. this case is unusual, in that the symptoms of compression of the brachial artery increased--namely, the pulse intensity decreased and the pain increased with elbow flexion.
progression of human papillomavirus type 18-immortalized human keratinocytes to a malignant phenotype. we have developed a model system for progression of human epithelial cells to malignancy, using a human papillomavirus type 18 (hpv-18)-immortalized human keratinocyte cell line. cells of cell line fep-1811 were nontumorigenic in athymic mice through at least 12 passages in culture, but after 32 passages were weakly tumorigenic, producing tumors that regressed. after 62 passages they produced invasive squamous cell carcinomas that grew progressively. the progression to malignancy was associated with an increase in the efficiency of forming colonies in soft agar and with altered differentiation properties. in an organotypic culture system, fep-1811 cells at passages 12 and 32 exhibited features typical of premalignant intraepithelial neoplasia in vivo, and cells at passage 68 exhibited features consistent with squamous cell carcinomas. no change in copy number of the transfected hpv-18 genome or in the level of expression of the viral transforming gene products e6 and e7 was detected between tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells. cytogenetic analysis of cells at early, middle, and late passage levels and cells cultured from tumors revealed that several chromosomal abnormalities segregated with the tumorigenic cell populations.
complications in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: relationships with patient age. five hundred consecutive attempted lower limb angioplasties for ischaemic disease (370 patients, mean age 65.6 years, range 33-91 years) were reviewed. significant complications occurred in 44 cases (8.8%). nine patients (1.8%) underwent emergency surgery related to a complication. a further 12 patients (2.4%) underwent elective surgery related to a complication. in addition, four patients died within 30 days of the procedure; one following surgery performed because of a complication of angioplasty, one following a myocardial infarction, one following severe bleeding associated with subsequent thrombolytic therapy and one during emergency surgery related to a complication of angioplasty. a correlation was found between complication rate and age. this relationship was independent of the approach to, the position of, and the severity of the treated lesion. elderly patients are at increased risk of complication in lower limb angioplasty.
clonotypic analysis of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies from experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-sensitive lewis rats and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-resistant wistar furth rats. a single immunization of lewis rats with purified acetylcholine receptor (achr) emulsified in adjuvant typically stimulates the production of oligoclonal achr-reactive antibodies (as demonstrated by ief) dominated by the igg2a subclass, of moderate but clonotypically heterogeneous relative ag-binding avidity, and capable of inducing symptoms of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. although similar immunization of wistar furth rats produces achr-reactive antibodies with similar characteristics of clonotypic heterogeneity, avidity, and isotype expression, no detectable signs of achr-dependent muscle impairment is observed. this contrasts the ability to induce impaired achr function upon the passive transfer of pre-formed lewis anti-achr antibodies into naive wistar furth rats, suggesting that disease resistance in this model is not conferred at the level of the achr itself. moreover, if more aggressive immunization protocols are used (i.e., multiple injections of achr), a transient breakthrough of achr-dependent muscle dysfunction can be induced directly in the wistar furth strain indicating that the potential for the production of disease-causing antibodies does exist in the wistar furth repertoire. ief analysis of wistar furth anti-achr antibodies has revealed that hyperimmunization results in modified antibody clonotype expression that might explain changing expression of disease symptoms; however, explanations for the apparent "resistance" of wistar furth rats to disease induction are likely to be complex.
bilateral renal cell carcinoma with metastasis to thyroid. a case of bilateral synchronous renal cell carcinomas with metastases to the regional lymph nodes and later to the thyroid gland was treated with aggressive surgical extirpation and adjuvant gamma interferon. the patient continues to have an excellent performance status sixteen months after initial diagnosis despite a large tumor burden at presentation.
liver transplantation: mr angiography with surgical validation. thirty patients (mean age, 45 years) were evaluated with magnetic resonance (mr) angiography before liver transplantation to assess the accuracy of mr angiography. a series of breath-hold, two-dimensional images were acquired and subsequently processed to form three-dimensional projection angiograms. graphic information on blood flow in the portal vein was acquired by using presaturation bolus tracking. correlative duplex ultrasound (us) was performed in 28 patients, and surgical or autopsy correlation was available in all cases. mr angiography demonstrated patency of the portal vein in 26 (96%) of 27 patients, made possible the diagnosis of portal venous occlusion in three of three patients, depicted reversed portal flow in one patient, and provided clear delineation of the extent of varices and specific portosystemic collateral vessels. when duplex us was successful, there was full agreement with mr angiographic results in assessing portal vein patency and flow direction. all of the mr findings were corroborated at surgical exploration or autopsy. the authors conclude that mr angiography is very accurate in the portal system and is valuable in preoperative assessment for liver transplantation.
non-specific reactions in enzyme linked immunosorbent assays for serum antibody to entamoeba histolytica and giardia lamblia in non-endemic areas. serum samples from 20 indian children with diarrhoea were compared with those from 20 children resident in the united kingdom who had been diagnosed as having ulcerative colitis, or crohn's disease, or indeterminate colitis using enzyme linked immunosorbent assays specific for entamoeba histolytica and giardia lamblia. more than 50% of the united kingdom patients had high igg responses in elisas for e histolytica and g lamblia. a confirmatory elisa showed that the british sera reacted specifically to bovine serum proteins rather than to protozoal antigens. prior incubation of sera with 5% bovine serum prohibited this reaction. bovine serum is an integral part of the crude soluble antigen used in most elisas for e histolytica and g lamblia and needs to be replaced with purified antigen preparations. the british sera also reacted to other commonly used blocking agents such as bovine serum albumin, casein, and normal sheep serum. these reactions were attributed to uptake of dietary antigens or an enhanced immunological response to these antigens in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
subgroups of patients with atypical circadian patterns of symptom onset in acute myocardial infarction. circadian variation of onset of acute myocardial infarction has been noted in many studies and may carry important implications. however, only a few previous studies have attempted subgroup analysis. in 4,796 patients with documented acute myocardial infarction, the time of symptom onset was recorded. as in other studies, a peak occurred in the morning hours from 6 a.m. to noon with 28% of the population (1.16 times the average percent for the other time periods) experiencing symptom onset in that period (p less than 0.001). there was a second lower peak (25%) in the evening hours between 6:01 p.m. and midnight, also observed in some previous studies. whether the presence of subgroups with specific clinical characteristics would exhibit different patterns and thereby contribute to these peaks in the overall population was then determined. in patients with a history of congestive heart failure (n = 606) or with non-q-wave infarction (n = 832), a pronounced peak (29%) occurred only in the evening hours. in patients greater than 70 years of age (n = 1,422), smokers (n = 2,057), diabetics (n = 767), women (n = 1,213) and patients taking beta blocking drugs (n = 847), 2 nearly equal peaks were observed. finally, in patients with previous myocardial infarction (n = 1,104), no peaks were observed. in a subgroup of patients (n = 1,084) free from the most important modifying factors, there was a single very pronounced late morning peak (32%), 1.39 times the average percent for the other time periods (p less than 0.001), without evidence of a second evening peak.
excess deaths from nine chronic diseases in the united states, 1986 to assess excess mortality from chronic disease in the united states, state age-adjusted combined mortality rates for nine chronic diseases in 1986 were compared with three "minimum" rates--two calculated from rates actually achieved in states and a third estimated as the mortality remaining after elimination of one risk factor for each disease. hawaii had the lowest mortality rate of combined diseases (305/100,000); state excesses ranged from 0% to 37%. the sum of lowest disease-specific rates in any state was 284 per 100,000, indicating excesses of between 7% and 41%. a minimum mortality rate of 224 per 100,000 was estimated to result from elimination of one risk factor for each of the nine diseases, indicating state excesses from 26% to 54%, or 524,000 us deaths. reduction of us mortality from the nine diseases to the risk factor--eliminated rate is estimated to be associated with an increased life expectancy at birth of 4 years.
mapping of herpes simplex virus-1 neurovirulence to gamma 134.5, a gene nonessential for growth in culture. the gene designated gamma 134.5 maps in the inverted repeats flanking the long unique sequence of herpes simplex virus-1 (hsv-1) dna, and therefore it is present in two copies per genome. this gene is not essential for viral growth in cell culture. four recombinant viruses were genetically engineered to test the function of this gene. these were (i) a virus from which both copies of the gene were deleted, (ii) a virus containing a stop codon in both copies of the gene, (iii) a virus containing after the first codon an insert encoding a 16-amino acid epitope known to react with a specific monoclonal antibody, and (iv) a virus in which the deleted sequences were restored. the viruses from which the gene was deleted or which carried stop codons were avirulent on intracerebral inoculation of mice. the virus with the gene tagged by the sequence encoding the epitope was moderately virulent, whereas the restored virus reacquired the phenotype of the parent virus. significant amounts of virus were recovered only from brains of animals inoculated with virulent viruses. inasmuch as the product of the gamma 134.5 gene extended the host range of the virus by enabling it to replicate and destroy brain cells, it is a viral neurovirulence factor.
influence of chromosomal integration on glucocorticoid-regulated transcription of growth-stimulating papillomavirus genes e6 and e7 in cervical carcinoma cells. in most cervical carcinoma cells the e6 and e7 genes of specific human papillomaviruses are transcribed from viral sequences integrated into host cell chromosomes. glucocorticoids activate the promoter elements of various human papillomaviruses in transient-expression assays. we have analyzed the effect of dexamethasone on the transcription rate of human papillomavirus 18 e6 and e7 genes integrated at different chromosomal sites in four cervical cancer cell lines. dexamethasone led to an increase in the transcription rate of the integrated e6-e7 sequences in c4-1 and c4-2 cells but led to a decrease in sw 756 cells and did not affect the transcription rate in hela cells. however, when the viral promoter elements derived from hela or sw 756 cells, in which dexamethasone does not activate transcription of the integrated e6-e7 sequences, were tested in transient-expression assays within the same cell lines, dexamethasone consistently activated the viral promoter. it thus appears that dominant regulatory mechanisms presumably depending on the chromosomal integration site are able to override the response of the viral promoter to steroid hormones. the growth rate of all dexamethasone-treated cell lines correlated consistently with the expression of the papillomavirus e6 and e7 genes, supporting their role in the maintenance of the proliferative phenotype of cervical carcinoma cells. since human papillomaviruses are integrated into the host cell genome at variable, presumably randomly selected chromosomal loci, regulatory mechanisms that influence viral gene expression, and hence cell growth, may differ among cancers of independent clonal origin.
long-term effects of radiotherapy in childhood and adolescence. the records of 50 selected pediatric patients who were treated and followed at m. d. anderson cancer center were reviewed to study the late effects of nonsurgical treatment of cancer in children. there were 26 girls and 24 boys ranging in age between 2 months and 16 years. patients with head and neck cancer received chemotherapy and radiotherapy for rhabdomyosarcoma (n = 27), retinoblastoma (n = 8), or nasopharynx cancer (n = 2). median follow-up was 13 years. the most severe side effects were noted in the fields of radiation and included hypoplasia of the jaw, orbit, or hemi-face with varying degrees of atrophy of the overlying soft tissues. a wide range of endocrine, dental, and psychologic abnormalities was also documented. since 1 in every 1,000 adults older than 20 years today is likely to be a survivor of childhood cancer, recommendations are made for this "new" class of patients whom the head and neck surgeon will be seeing in the future.
amniotic and thromboembolism. embolic phenomena in pregnancy demand rapid investigation and treatment. regardless, some patients will not survive due to the enormity of the insult. optimally, such patients should be treated in tertiary care centers, but this is not always possible.
urgent management of a giant scrotal hernia. an unusual case of giant scrotal hernia is presented. hernias of this magnitude are extremely rare, even in underdeveloped countries, and their repair is challenging to the surgeon and stressful to the patient. only a few case reports on the use of pneumoperitoneum prior to herniorrhaphy have been published; however, our patient's accompanying complications of diabetes mellitus and gastrointestinal symptoms precluded the use of pneumoperitoneum. the emergency management, including the expansion of the abdominal cavity with prosthesis, the ensuing postoperative complications, and the patient outcome, are discussed.
the importance of intraoperative cholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc) using electrocoagulation was successfully performed in 56 out of 58 selected patients. cholangiography was performed in 53 patients. six patients had common duct stones; five were unsuspected preoperatively. after the gallbladder was removed, three patients underwent open common duct exploration. in another five cases, anatomical anomalies were discovered. cholangiography performed via the cystic duct before any structures are divided can prevent the most serious complication--common duct injury. cholangiography should be attempted on all patients undergoing lc.
excretion of thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin metabolites before and after exercise testing in patients with and without signs of ischemic heart disease. we addressed the hypothesis that platelets are not activated in association with effort-induced myocardial ischemia in stable coronary disease. seventy-two patients undergoing a diagnostic bicycle exercise test were stratified according to the development of chest pain (yes/no, 33/39) and of exercise-induced st-segment depression of at least 200 microv in the electrocardiogram (yes/no, 12/60). noninvasive indexes of platelet activation and of platelet/vessel wall interaction (urinary excretion of the 2,3-dinor-metabolites of thromboxane a2 [tx-m] and prostacyclin [pgi-m], respectively) were analyzed in samples collected in the basal state and after the test. basal tx-m and pgi-m did not differ in patients with (236 +/- 35 and 131 +/- 22 pg/mg creatinine, respectively) and without (185 +/- 16 and 101 +/- 13 pg/mg creatinine, respectively) chest pain, or in those with (178 +/- 45 and 162 +/- 41 pg/mg, respectively) and without (216 +/- 22 and 104 +/- 11 pg/mg, respectively) st-segment depression during the test. patients without chest pain or without st-segment depression moderately increased (p less than 0.05) their urinary tx-m (by 21% and 13%, respectively) and pgi-m (by 28% and 23%, respectively) after exercise. no significant increases were observed in those developing chest pain or st depression during exercise. these data indicate that effort-induced myocardial ischemia is not associated with an increase in platelet activation or platelet/vessel wall interaction in patients with stable coronary disease.
stasis syndromes following gastric surgery: clinical and motility features of 60 symptomatic patients. we retrospectively reviewed the records of 60 patients who had been referred for gastrointestinal manometry because of stasis after gastric surgery. nausea, vomiting, bloating, abdominal pain, and weight loss were the most common symptoms. two thirds of these patients had a well-documented history of peptic ulcer before their initial operations; in others, surgery was performed for other reasons, such as obesity (5%) or reflux esophagitis (8%). twelve patients had undergone truncal vagotomy and a "drainage operation" and 48 had received a partial gastrectomy with a gastroenterostomy: billroth i (n = 8), billroth ii (n = 11), roux-en-y (n = 29). all patients had recordings of gastrointestinal manometry; 16 also had a scintigraphic measurement of gastric emptying. measurements were compared with data from healthy controls. gastric manometry, which could be assessed only in the group with an intact antrum, was characterized by antral hypomotility (p less than 0.05). gastric emptying studies showed rapid early emptying of liquids and delayed emptying of solids (both p less than 0.05). in the whole group, fasting jejunal motility was characterized by absence of phase ii in 13, presence of bursts of phasic activity in 18, and abnormal propagation of phase iii in 8. a significantly increased frequency of phase iii of mmc was noted in the patients after billroth ii and roux-en-y operations. postprandially, 19 patients failed to develop a "fed pattern.".
an unusual venous anomaly of the placenta. the authors present an unusual vascular anomaly of the placenta. the placenta was very large, weighing 1,490 g. on the fetal surface, numerous dilated and tortuous vessels were observed on and under the chorionic membrane, of which three branches arose from a vein that was connected to the umbilical vein. one of them had a 5 x 2.5 cm aneurysmal dilatation, where three secondary branches arose. these venous channels were dilated and tortuous. the longest secondary branch was 133 cm in length and 1.2 cm in mean diameter and led into the placenta. multiple, severely coiled or straight small branches arising from these vessels were also observed as vascular tangles. some of these smaller vessels also led into the placenta. all abnormal vessels were veins. the umbilical cord was also normal except for a membranous insertion, and the placenta was unremarkable except for its large size.
a complex ileovaginal fistula with associated obstructive uropathy in a patient with crohn's disease: technical considerations and review of the literature. a high index of suspicion of an ileogenital fistula should be aroused by a patient with crohn's disease, weight loss, malnutrition, and a persistent vaginal discharge. preoperative gastrointestinal and genitourinary evaluation should be used in an attempt to localize the fistulous origin as well as concomitant fistulae. the principles of surgical therapy include preoperative ureteral catheters, resection of the diseased bowel and fistulous segment of bowel, and interposition of healthy tissue (ie, omentum) between the bowel anastomosis and the vaginal cuff.
effect of portasystemic shunts on subsequent transplantation of the liver. portasystemic (ps) shunts have been regarded as a relative contraindication to hepatic transplantation (ht) because of the potential for increased technical difficulties during the transplant operation. we compared operative blood loss, morbidity and mortality in 27 patients with ps shunts and 147 patients with no shunts (ns) who underwent ht. the ps shunt group included 12 portocaval (pc), eight mesocaval, four central splenorenal and four distal splenorenal shunts. the ps shunt and ns groups were similar with respect to age, preoperative medical status and abo blood group matching between donors and recipients. there were no significant differences in the mean (plus or minus s.d.) intraoperative blood transfusion (9.1 +/- 7.6 versus 9.2 +/- 11.0 units), mean (plus or minus s.d.) duration of anesthesia (8.1 +/- 1.4 versus 7.8 +/- 1.5 hours) and operative mortality (7 versus 11 per cent) between the ps shunt and ns groups, respectively. complications of the biliary tract were significantly higher in the ps shunt group (22.0 versus 5.4 per cent, p less than 0.01) but they did not increase the mortality rate. we conclude that a prior ps shunt should not influence the decision to accept patients for ht. ps shunts remain a reasonable surgical option for patients with cirrhosis and variceal hemorrhage (refractory to sclerotherapy) who, by virtue of good hepatic function, do not merit immediate ht.
hemiplegia in posterior cerebral artery occlusion. we report 4 patients with hemiplegia due to a posterior cerebral artery occlusion. associated clinical signs were aphasia, alexia or a neglect syndrome, hemianopia, and hemisensory loss. hemiplegia was due to infarction in the lateral midbrain. the level of the occlusion in the posterior cerebral artery may be located distal to the junction with the posterior communicating artery.
t-cell lymphoma and mature nephroblastoma after synchronous bilateral wilms' tumor. a 15-year-old boy had lymphoblastic lymphoma of the left tonsil after being treated for bilateral wilms' tumor (bwt) at 7 months of age. in addition, a fully differentiated wilms' tumor was diagnosed in the remaining, partially nephrectomized left kidney. development of second malignancies in patients with a history of bwt, as compared with those with unilateral wilms' tumor, is discussed. a possible explanation for the concurrently diagnosed, fully differentiated wilms' tumor in the remaining left kidney is suggested.
hypertension and the risk of dementia in the elderly. vascular dementia is the second most common type of dementia in the elderly after the dementia of alzheimer's disease. six forms of vascular dementia have been described: multi-infarct dementia, lacunar dementia, binswanger's subcortical encephalopathy, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, white-matter lesions associated with dementias, and single-infarct dementia. each is described. severe dementia is found in 5% of persons over age 65 and in 15% to 20% of persons over age 80 years. alzheimer's disease accounts for 50% to 60% of cases of severe dementia and vascular dementia for 10% to 20%; 20% of the patients have both disorders. the incidence of vascular dementia, which seems to be declining, is about 7/1,000 persons/year. hypertension is the most powerful risk factor for all vascular dementias. vascular dementias can be accurately diagnosed by using clinical and mental state examinations, diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders criteria, ischemic scores, and computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. the most successful treatment of vascular dementia is the prevention of cerebral infarcts. study of the incidence of vascular dementias and their treatment will be included in the european trial on systolic hypertension in the elderly (syst-eur) of 3,000 elderly hypertensive patients.
central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox--cause or coincidence? a 7.5 year old boy, known to have a seizure disorder, presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory, 10 weeks after severe chickenpox. immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32. cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis. he presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures. magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct, but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process. cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32. although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence, a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis, similar to that reported with herpes zoster, and with potentially significant clinical implications, should be considered. as a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy, however, which is generally not indicated in such cases, only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity.
sinus nodal dysfunction in young patients with long qt syndrome. although sinus bradycardia and low heart rate with exercise have been found in some patients with long qt syndrome, systematic evaluation, including intracardiac electrophysiologic (eps) tests of sinus node function, has not been reported. records were reviewed of 14 children and adolescents (age 3 to 16 years) with long qt syndrome (mean qtc 0.51 second) who underwent noninvasive testing and intracardiac eps because of syncope or cardiac arrest. the resting electrocardiographic (ecg) sinus heart rate was low for age in only 1 of 13 patients, while the lowest holter-monitored sinus heart rate was abnormal in 4 of 12. the maximum exercise heart rate was abnormally low in 6 of the 12 who underwent exercise testing. for the eps tests, the corrected sinus node recovery time (csnrt) was long in 8 of 14 and the sinoatrial conduction time (sact) was long in six of the nine in whom it was calculable. when both noninvasive and eps indices are considered, 13 of the 14 patients had some type of sinus node dysfunction.
significance of u wave polarity in patients with a prior inferior myocardial infarction. sixty consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography and left ventriculography from six to eight weeks after the onset of definite inferior myocardial infarction were divided into three groups according to the polarity of u waves in (1) leads ii, iii, a vf and (2) in leads v4 to v6 (positive = group p, flat or isoelectric = group f, and negative = group n). the following parameters were analyzed: (1) ecg score; (2) global ejection fraction: (3) regional area change: (4) number of asynergic, and akinetic segmental radii; (5) number of asynergic and akinetic areas: and (6) number of diseased coronary arteries and the incidence of left anterior descending artery (lad) disease. there were no significant differences among the three groups according to the polarity of u waves in two subgroups by the site of u waves in age, gender, systemic blood pressure, and ecg scores. the polarity of u waves in leads ii.iii.a vf (subgroup 1) correlated with the size of myocardial infarction; regional area changes in inferior segment (area 2) were 64.1 +/- 8.2 in group p1, 31.8 +/- 14.7 in group f1, and 21.0 +/- 15.8 in group n1 (p less than 0.01, f = 32.8). the polarity of u waves in leads v4-6 (subgroup2) correlated with anterolateral wall motion; regional area changes in anterolateral segments (area 5) were 76.8 +/- 11.6 in group p, 66.5 +/- 18.5 in group f, and 48.9 +/- 17.1 in group n (p less than 0.01, f = 18.6). the incidence of multivessel disease increased from group p2 (36.4%), to group f2 (54.5%), to group n2 (75.0%), and the incidence of lad disease increased from 27.3%, to 45.5%, to 68.8%, respectively. a negative u wave in either location suggested severely decreased apical wall motion, and there was a tendency for global ejection fractions to decrease in the following order: group p, group f, and group n. from these results, the authors conclude that the polarity of u waves may be one of the parameters correlating with the wall motion and left ventricular function in prior inferior myocardial infarction.
outcome of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. a prospective study. a prospective study was performed to investigate the outcome and complications of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. twenty-nine pregnancies occurred in 22 patients. there were 12 abortions, two spontaneous and 10 induced. fifteen women had 17 live-born neonates. neonatal complications included nine premature deliveries, two cases of intrauterine growth retardation, and one of treacher collins syndrome. obstetric complications included threatened abortion (two), placenta previa (two), and preeclampsia (three). cesarean sections were necessary in five patients. there was no maternal or neonatal mortality. thirteen episodes of systemic lupus erythematosus relapses were detected by incidents of increasing proteinuria (six), arthritis (four), and vasculitic rash (two). there were no statistical differences in changes in hemoglobin level, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, albumin level, antinuclear antibody titer, or c3 or c4 level between the patients who relapsed and those who did not. pregnancy could induce a flare of systemic lupus erythematosus in previously normal patients or patients with previously inactive disease. the overall neonatal and maternal survival was good, even in patients who presented during pregnancy. spontaneous fetal loss was low (2/29 [6.9%]); both cases occurred in mothers with inactive lupus.
the robustness of an empirically derived taxonomy of chronic pain patients. there is currently no classification system for chronic pain patients that has achieved consensus. the lack of a classification that is used consistently across settings has impaired advance of knowledge and treatment of chronic pain patients. recently, an empirically derived multivariate classification system, the multiaxial assessment of pain (map) patients, has been developed. in this paper, the generalizability of the map system was evaluated by contrasting the map classification of 3 common but diverse chronic pain syndromes, namely, low back pain, headache, and temporomandibular disorders. the results indicate that although the proportion of patients classified into the 3 subgroups of the map taxonomy differ, the profiles based on the pattern of interrelationship among the assessment scales were remarkably similar. these data suggest that the psychosocial and behavioral responses associated with chronic pain are common to diverse samples of pain patients despite differences in demographic characteristics and medical diagnosis. the implications of these results for research and clinical practice are discussed. the potential utility of a polydiagnostic approach using more traditional medically based classifications such as proposed by the iasp (merskey, h., pain, suppl. 3 (1986) s1-s225) complemented by classification based on the map psychosocial-behaviorally based taxonomy are examined.
igg1-mediated acute pulmonary hypersensitivity response in the guinea pig. involvement of specific lipid mediators. we determined the pulmonary obstructive response to aerosolized antigen challenge, and its sensitivity to antagonists of specific lipid mediators, in igg, passively sensitized (igg1-ps) guinea pigs. antiovalbumin (oa)-igg1 was isolated by affinity chromatography from serum derived from actively immunized hartley guinea pigs. propranolol and pyrilamine pretreated, igg1-ps guinea pigs were challenged with aerosolized antigen and pulmonary obstruction was quantified by measurements of excised lung gas volume (elgv). elgv increased between 150 and 1,035% in a dose-proportional fashion with increasing antigen exposure (0.001 to 0.1% nebulizer concentration). the leukotriene antagonists ici-204,219 and skf-104,353 exhibited dose-proportional inhibitions in antigen-induced elevations in elgv, inhibiting up to 65 and 87% at the maximal concentrations examined. similarly, the platelet-activating factor (paf) antagonists web-2086 and l-659,989 inhibited antigen-induced elevations in elgv, inhibiting up to 94 and 59% at the maximal concentrations examined. in contrast, the cyclooxygenase (co) inhibitor piroxicam significantly enhanced (p less than 0.05) the oa-induced elevations in elgv. aerosolized paf challenge produced dose-proportional elevations in elgv that were significantly inhibited by the ltd, antagonist ici-204,219 (38 and 43% inhibition) and the co inhibitor piroxicam (62 and 48% inhibition) in sensitized and nonsensitized animals, respectively. we hypothesize that igg1-dependent airway obstruction is mediated in part by ltd, produced in response to paf generation.
endobronchial carcinoid and mucoepidermoid carcinoma in children. endobronchial neoplastic disease is rarely encountered in patients under 20 years of age. the great majority of these lesions are carcinoids or mucoepidermoid carcinoma. symptoms are secondary to bronchial irritation and manifest as recurrent pneumonitis, hemoptysis, persistent cough, reactive airway disease, and chest pain. early bronchoscopy reliably enables identification and may prevent harmful sequelae resulting from delay in diagnosis. retrospective data from four cases collected from the tumor registry in the southern california kaiser permanente medical group is presented and a review of the literature is discussed.
long-term medical consequences of incest, rape, and molestation. one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group. the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression, morbid obesity, marital instability, high utilization of medical care, and certain psychosomatic symptoms, particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches. it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems. questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner's review of systems in these difficult cases, if not routinely.
early and frequent detection of hbxag and/or anti-hbx in hepatitis b virus infection. to clarify the significance of the x gene of hepatitis b virus, we have tested for anti-hbx in the serum and hbxag in the liver at different stages of the natural history of hepatitis b virus infection. sera were screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and positive results confirmed by immunoblot. purified recombinant ms2 pol-hbx fusion protein was used as target for both assays. among serial sera of patients with nonfulminant acute hepatitis, 24 of 64 patients (37.5%) were positive for anti-hbx. in fulminant cases, 15 of 36 patients (42%) had anti-hbx. in chronic hepatitis patients with high rates of hepatitis b virus replication, we found a significantly (p less than 0.01) higher prevalence of anti-hbx, 14 of 25 patients (56%), than in those with low replication, 14 of 66 patients (21%), or among asymptomatic hbsag carrier blood donors (20 of 126 = 16%) without detectable hepatitis b virus replication (p less than 0.0001). the highest prevalence of anti-hbx was found in hbsag carriers with cirrhosis (41 of 54 patients = 76%) and/or with hepatocellular carcinoma (18 of 33 patients = 54%). the findings suggest that anti-hbx appears as a common and early marker of hepatitis b virus infection, transient in self-limited hepatitis but persisting with progression to chronicity. in chronic hepatitis, the prevalence of anti-hbx correlated with the intensity and duration of hepatitis b virus replication but neither with the severity of the liver disease nor with malignant transformation per se.
can nurses perform surgical cricothyrotomy with acceptable success and complication rates? study objective: this study was undertaken to determine whether flight nurses can perform surgical cricothyrotomies with acceptable success and complication rates. methods: this case series examined the survival, success, and complication rates of surgical cricothyrotomy. a specially trained flight nurse retrospectively reviewed all prehospital, emergency department, inpatient, autopsy, and outpatient follow-up records. results: fifty-five consecutive patients in whom surgical cricothyrotomy was attempted by a flight nurse during a two-and-one-half-year period were studied. patients ranged in age from 9 to 76 years. the airway was not cannulated successfully by a flight nurse in two patients. in two patients, the tube was not in the cricothyroid space (one in the upper tracheal rings, and the other in the larynx). in three patients, packing was insufficient to stop bleeding from around the operative site; and in three the tube became occluded by blood in the emergency department. finally, two patients developed subglottic stenosis. conclusion: surgical cricothyrotomy in the field can be performed reliably by specially trained nurses. because only the most critically ill or injured patients with unmanageable airways are subjected to this procedure, a significant complication rate can be anticipated.
standards for evaluating results of interventional therapy for peripheral vascular disease. uniform standards for evaluating and reporting the results of therapeutic interventions for peripheral vascular disease are clearly needed. they are already established for vascular surgery, as represented by several reports by svs/iscvs committees, but they are not always followed by vascular surgeons and have been largely ignored by other vascular interventionists. in this article, the major problematic reporting practices are discussed and illustrated, and 14 recommendations are advanced to deal with them. they are intended to provide precise definitions, objective criteria of success or failure, standardized severity gradation schemes for peripheral vascular disease and its risk factors, and proper procedures for reporting the outcome of all forms of therapeutic intervention. until these or some other agreed upon reporting standards are accepted and followed, the literature on peripheral vascular disease and its management will continue to be a source of confusion rather than enlightenment.
clinical experience with doxazosin in general medical practice in the netherlands. this study was designed to investigate the efficacy and toleration of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure 95 to 115 mm hg) in a general medical practice. fifty-three patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension entered a study of 14 weeks' duration. this consisted of a baseline run-in period of 2 weeks, a dose-adjustment phase with doxazosin (8 weeks), and a maintenance phase of 4 weeks. doxazosin was initiated at 1 mg/day, and every 2 weeks the dose was doubled unless blood pressure was normalized (sitting diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline) or significant side effects emerged. the maximum daily dose administered was 8 mg. doxazosin produced a significant (p less than 0.05) final mean change in sitting blood pressure of -17.4/-12.2 mm hg at a final mean daily dose of 4.1 mg. heart rate was not significantly altered. a nonsignificant decrease in total cholesterol concentration (-2.66%, p = 0.06) and triglycerides (-8.80%, p = 0.09) was also observed. the effect of doxazosin on blood pressure and serum cholesterol resulted in a significant (p less than 0.001) reduction of 19% in calculated risk of coronary heart disease. the investigators' assessment of patient toleration of doxazosin was excellent or good in 86.8% of patients.
ventricular ectopy: significance and management. ventricular ectopy is a normal variant of cardiac rhythm, and its significance in an individual is related to cardiac risk factors and the presence or absence of heart disease. although there is good evidence in many forms of heart disease that complex vebs indicate a high risk of death, treatment of asymptomatic vebs with antiarrhythmic drugs has not been shown to improve survival and may be hazardous. treatment should be directed at the underlying heart disease. those with heart disease and severe symptoms resulting from vebs will often require electrophysiological assessment as to specific antiarrhythmic therapy. those without heart disease can usually be managed by reassurance and do not require antiarrhythmic drugs.
a retroviral promoter is sufficient to convert proto-src to a transforming gene that is distinct from the src gene of rous sarcoma virus. the src genes of four natural isolates of avian sarcoma viruses differ from cellular proto-src in two genetic substitutions: the promoter of the cellular gene is replaced by a retroviral counterpart, and at least six codons from the 3' terminus are replaced by retroviral or heterologous cell-derived elements. since virus constructs with a complete proto-src coding region failed to transform avian cells but acquired transforming function by point mutations of various codons, it has been proposed that point mutation is sufficient to convert proto-src to a transforming gene. however, promoter substitution is sufficient to convert two other proto-onc genes, proto-ras and proto-myc, to retroviral transforming genes. in view of this, we have reexamined whether promoter substitution, point mutation, or both are necessary to convert proto-src into a retroviral transforming gene. it was found that a recombinant virus (rpsv), in which the src gene of rous sarcoma virus (rsv) was replaced by the complete coding region of proto-src, transformed quail and chicken embryo cells. the oncogene of rpsv differs from the src gene of rsv in three genetic properties: (i) it is weaker--e.g., transformed cells are flatter; (ii) it is slower--e.g., focus formation takes 9 to 12 days compared to 4 days for rsv; and (iii) its host range is narrower than that of rsv--e.g., only subsets of heterogeneous embryo cells are transformed by rpsv even after weeks or months. replacement of the proto-src 3' terminus of rpsv by that of src from rsv generates a recombinant virus (rpvsv) that equals rsv in transforming function. it is concluded that a retroviral promoter, naturally substituted via illegitimate recombination with retroviruses, is sufficient to convert at least three proto-onc genes, src, myc, and ras, to retroviral transforming genes.
internal fixation of femoral neck fractures. two methods compared. in a prospective randomised study, the hansson pin technique for internal fixation of fractures of the femoral neck was compared with the uppsala screw technique. the series consisted of 115 consecutive patients, 97 women and 18 men, with a mean age of 80 years. there were 56 patients treated with hansson pins and 59 with uppsala screws. after one year 22 patients had died, eight in the hansson pin group and 14 in the uppsala screw group (p = 0.28). twenty-four complications had occurred, 18 in the hansson pin group and six in the uppsala screw group (p = 0.008). after exclusion of those with complications, the patients in the hansson pin group had significantly more pain, less mobility, and a smaller proportion were living in their own homes.
recombination between two 14-bp homologous sequences as the mechanism for gene deletion in factor ix seattle 1. factor ixseattle 1 is a 10-kb intragenic deletion identified in a family that has hemophilia b. by sequencing across the site of the deletion, we discovered at the deletion junction a 13-bp sequence (5' . . . tagaa-gttcactt . . . 3') that was homologous to two 14-bp sequences 10 kb apart in introns d and f of the normal factor ix gene. the presence of these homologous sequences in two different regions of the normal gene allows us to propose that genetic recombination has occurred between the sequences, resulting in the gene deletion. the precise recombination site was able to be localized to one of 5 bp (5' . . . agttc . . . 3') in the middle of the homologous sequences. the exact length of the deletion is 10,000 bp.
the role of elective lymph node dissection in the management of patients with thick cutaneous melanoma. a retrospective search of patients seen at the duke melanoma clinic from 1970 to 1986 identified 308 clinically stage i patients, with 4.0 to 10.0 mm cutaneous melanomas. five-year and ten-year survival was 56% and 43%, respectively. elective lymph node dissection (elnd) was done in 116 patients (37.7%); there was no difference in disease-free interval (dfi) or survival between these patients versus patients treated with wide excision only (p = 0.9). thirty-two patients (27.6%) had pathologically positive nodes on elnd. these patients had a shorter dfi (p = 0.05) and survival (p = 0.03) compared with patients with negative node dissections. when further divided by breslow's thickness, this difference persisted in patients with 4.0 to 6.0 mm lesions (p = 0.01). however, for thicker lesions (greater than 6.0 mm), there was no difference in survival between the node-negative and node-positive groups (p = 0.9). the mean follow-up was 7.1 years. elective lymph node dissection was not done in 192 patients; 78 of these recurred first in the regional nodes. these 78 patients were compared with the 32 patients who had pathologically positive nodes by elnd to see if patient survival was improved by early removal of nodal disease. there was no difference in dfi (p = 0.5) or survival (p = 0.3) between these two groups. it is concluded that elnd may provide prognostic information for patients with thick cutaneous melanomas. however, there was no change in dfi or ultimate survival when patients were followed, and nodes removed when clinically positive. the authors do not recommend elnd for patients with thick melanomas because the risk of distant metastases outweighs any benefit of regional node dissection.
prospective pharmacokinetically based development of effective infusion regimens for acc-9358, a new antiarrhythmic drug. in this study we evaluated the clinical pharmacology of intravenous acc-9358, a new antiarrhythmic drug derived from a chinese herbal remedy. in a first-study phase, 0.125 to 1.0 mg/kg during 10 minutes was administered to six patients with chronic nonsustained ventricular arrhythmias. these data were then used to design 3-hour infusions to maintain stable plasma concentrations: these infusions suppressed arrhythmias by 90% or greater for 2 1/2 hours or more at plasma concentrations of 114 to 1010 ng/ml (mean, 400 +/- 421 ng/ml [sd]), and with qrs interval increases of 2.5% to 8.8% (5.1% +/- 2.9%). mean clearance was 478 +/- 151 ml/min, and elimination half-life was 19.1 +/- 6.1 hours. acc-9358 did not produce adverse effects in this study. acc-9358 shows antiarrhythmic activity in humans at concentrations that prolong qrs only slightly and do not alter rate-corrected qt; further studies in other patient populations, at dosages and plasma concentrations defined here, are required to establish a clinical role for acc-9358. the pharmacokinetically based dose-ranging approach allowed the safe initial evaluation of acc-9358 in patients.
clinical application of ras gene mutation for diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. most pancreatic adenocarcinomas are known to have ras gene (oncogene) mutations. the site of the mutations is localized in codon 12 of k-ras gene. such high incidence and localization of the ras gene mutations have not been observed in any other human malignancies. polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing method enabled us to analyze dna sequence around codon 12 of k-ras gene in small quantities of specimens obtained from needle biopsies and aspirate samples for pathological diagnosis. all the materials obtained from 12 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma showed the mutations, whereas those obtained from 6 patients with chronic pancreatitis showed no mutations. in several cases using the mutations of k-ras gene as a marker, this analysis supplemented conventional pathology and cytology in making the diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. the analysis of ras-gene mutations was useful for the clinical diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
acoustic schwannoma and epidermoid cyst occurring as a single cerebellopontine angle mass. the case of a 66-year-old man with a 3-year progressive hearing loss and a homogeneous left cerebellopontine angle mass on magnetic resonance imaging scan is described. at surgery, the major portion of the mass was a typical encapsulated, solid, acoustic schwannoma, but the most rostral portion was a distinct, flaky, cystic mass without a well-defined capsule, typical of an epidermoid cyst. the radiographic and operative findings of this unique coexistence of two different benign cerebellopontine angle masses are presented.
outcome of cataract surgery in central india: a longitudinal follow-up study. an epidemiological follow-up study of patients who had intracapsular cataract extraction in a voluntary hospital and its associated eye camps in central india has for the first time evaluated the outcome one year after surgery in terms of visual acuity, use of spectacles, and improvement in income and mobility. the findings indicate that under these fairly typical conditions, 92% of the cases have adequate vision of 6/18 or better one year after surgery. information on high usage of spectacles and on considerable improvements in income and mobility after cataract surgery is also reported. the outcome for patients operated upon in eye camps was almost as favourable as for those operated upon in hospital. although the small differences are not statistically significant, the comparative findings require cautious interpretation and give rise to the epidemiological issues which are briefly discussed in this paper.
mri findings in neuro-behcet's disease. we report mri findings in 6 patients with behcet's disease and cns involvement. there were 3 different stages of imaging appearance: (1) during the acute illness, there were scattered areas of high signal intensity on t2-weighted images with predilection to the central structures of the cerebrum, the cerebral peduncles, and basis pontis. (2) during the recovery phase, most of these findings improved, but some white matter high signal areas persisted in the upper brainstem and peripheral subcortical white matter. occasionally, findings were suggestive of microhematoma. (3) during the chronic phase, atrophy of posterior fossa structures became evident with decreased signal intensity suggestive of hemosiderin deposits.
hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and consumption coagulopathy. we describe a case of hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with both microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (maha) and consumption coagulopathy, but without thrombocytopenia, which was completely cured by surgical resection of the tumor. the patient was a 54-yr-old japanese woman whose chief complaint was right upper abdominal discomfort. angiography and dynamic computed tomography revealed typical findings of hepatic cavernous hemangioma. the patient also had hematological disorders. at surgery, we performed an atypical right lobectomy to preserve as much normal liver tissue as possible. the patient has been well, with no related complaints or abnormal laboratory findings, 5 yr since her operation. this case indicates that giant cavernous hemangioma of the liver should be considered in the differential diagnosis of maha, and if surgical treatment is adequate, hematological abnormalities may be eliminated.
characterization of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the rat pancreas. nodules of acinar cells with increased proliferative potential develop in the pancreas of carcinogen-treated rats and in untreated aged rats. large nodules are classed as adenomas. phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of nodule cells were compared with normal pancreas and transplantable acinar cell carcinomas by several methods. nuclei of acinar cells from normal pancreas, adenomas, and three carcinomas in situ had normal diploid dna content as determined by flow cytometry. one of two primary carcinomas had a hypodiploid dna content. two of three transplantable carcinomas were aneuploid with a dna content in the tetraploid range. explants from nodules and adenomas failed to grow in soft agar, whereas several carcinomas were positive in this assay. a primary carcinoma was serially transplanted, but transplantation of nodules or adenomas failed. transfection of dna from carcinomas in situ yielded a higher frequency of nih 3t3 transformants than dna from adenomas. dnas from the transformants did not contain ras sequences. these studies indicate that cells from nodules and adenomas have low growth potential and lack critical phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of transformed malignant cells that were present in some primary and transplanted carcinomas.
sympathomimetics for acute severe asthma: should only beta 2-selective agonists be used? sympathomimetics have become a mainstay of the treatment of acute asthma. aerosolization of sympathomimetics provides as great or greater bronchodilation in acute severe asthma with fewer systemic effects than parenteral therapy. despite the broncho-selectivity achieved with this route of administration, cardiostimulation remains the major, dose-limiting factor in the safe use of sustained, high-dose therapy with these agents. this article reviews the pharmacology, adverse effects, and toxicities of selected beta agonists, as well as clinical studies relevant to the question posed in the title. although the ideal study to answer this question has not yet been performed, the authors feel that available evidence supports the preferential use of selective beta 2 agonists in patients with acute, severe asthma who will require high doses of beta agonists.
cloning and expression of cdnas for two distinct murine tumor necrosis factor receptors demonstrate one receptor is species specific. complementary dna clones encoding two distinct tumor necrosis factor receptors were isolated from a mouse macrophage cdna library. the cdna for murine tumor necrosis factor receptor type 1 (mtnf-r1) predicts a mature polypeptide of 425 amino acids that is 64% identical to its human counterpart, whereas the cdna of murine tumor necrosis factor receptor type 2 (mtnf-r2) predicts a mature protein of 452 amino acids that is 62% identical to human tumor necrosis factor receptor type 2. the two murine tumor necrosis factor receptors have limited sequence homology (approximately 20% identity) in their extracellular regions but no apparent similarity in their cytoplasmic portions. northern (rna) analysis indicates a single 2.6-kilobase (kb) transcript for mtnf-r1; a 3.6-kb and a more predominant 4.5-kb transcript are observed for mtnf-r2. a human cell line transfected with either mtnf-r1 or mtnf-r2 expression vectors specifically bound 125i-labeled recombinant murine tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha). although mtnf-r1 had a similar affinity for both recombinant murine tnf-alpha and human tnf-alpha, mtnf-r2 showed strong specificity for recombinant murine tnf-alpha. this result suggests that the various activities of human tumor necrosis factor alpha reported in mice or in murine cell lines are probably mediated by mtnf-r1.
failure of internal fixation of displaced femoral neck fractures in rheumatoid patients. we reviewed the records and radiographs from 10 hospitals to identify 50 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) who had sustained 52 femoral neck fractures. most patients were female (88%), elderly (mean age 66 years) and had had severe polyarticular disease for a mean duration of 16 years. over half had taken systemic corticosteroids, nearly all were severely osteopenic but few had rheumatoid changes in the hip. of the 20 fractures treated by internal fixation 12 had complications including nonunion (5), osteonecrosis (5), infection (1), and intertrochanteric fracture (1). only one of the nine undisplaced fractures required reoperation, but seven of the 11 displaced fractures had revision surgery. twenty fractures were treated by primary total hip arthroplasty with only one early complication. the other 12 fractures had been treated by hemiarthroplasty (9), hip excision (1) or non-operatively (2). our results suggest that, in elderly rheumatoid patients, severely displaced femoral neck fractures should be treated by total hip replacement.
monitoring of spinal cord stimulation evoked potentials during thoracoabdominal aneurysm surgery. repair of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm involves a significant risk of ischemic injury to the spinal cord. standard monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials, which relies upon peripheral nerve stimulation, becomes nonspecific and insensitive during this surgery when aortic cross-clamping produces lower extremity ischemia causing a peripheral conduction block. techniques for the insertion of percutaneous epidural electrodes, developed originally for pain management, have been adapted to this setting to permit direct stimulation of the spinal cord for intraoperative monitoring of evoked potentials. the clinical outcome in patients monitored by this technique has been consistent with evoked potential findings.
ontogenetic features of audiogenic seizure susceptibility induced in immature rats by noise. although numerous models are currently used for systematic study of the mechanisms of epileptogenesis in mature brain, few animal models have been developed that allow similar explorations in the developing nervous system. one experimental model of epilepsy supports a premise that perinatal experience can lead to eventual seizure susceptibility, however. audiogenic seizure (ags) susceptibility can be induced during a critical developmental period in normal mice by auditory deprivation and therefore by cochlear trauma. we studied the developmental parameters that affect success of both induction and testing of ags-susceptibility in the rat. intense high-frequency noise exposure was used as the traumatizing agent. the wistar rat strain used is inherently seizure-resistant because in greater than 400 trials, untreated rats have never exhibited susceptibility at any age. although single prolonged exposures to high-intensity noise were administered to groups of rats at ages between postnatal days (pnds) 12 and 36, pnd 14 was the age when exposure was most likely to result in eventual seizure susceptibility. furthermore, duration of initial exposure on pnd 14 determined the rate of susceptibility when measured 2 weeks later. accordingly, we noted that single noise exposures at an intensity of 125 db and ranging between 6 and 10 min in duration induced susceptibility in 100% of rats tested on pnd 28; nonetheless, seizures among the rats exposed for 8 min were the most severe. typically, these seizures began as wild running attacks and were followed by tonic/clonic convulsions.
oestrogen and progesterone receptors in acoustic neuroma. tissue samples from fourteen consecutive (8 male: 6 female) acoustic neuromas were assayed for hormone receptors using either a monoclonal antibody (ma), dextran coated charcoal (dcc) or isoelectric focusing (ief) technique. in this series there were no unequivocally positive results, a finding at variance with previously published results.
pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis: effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against streptococcus pneumoniae. to study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence, a model of streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats. cirrhosis, with or without ascites, was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride (ccl4). histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that ccl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans. cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls, and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest ld50. more cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls. pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels. this model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host.
changing cancer care in the 1990s and the cost. progress in cancer research in the 1980s has led to predictions of a technologic explosion in the 1990s. yet, with this progress there has been a groundswell of protest at the rapidly escalating costs of health care. more than $600 billion was spent on health care in 1989 and estimates of $1.5 trillion are made for the year 2000. repeated attempts at cost containment have failed. it has been suggested that only by retarding technologic advances will we be able to control costs. many observers believe that rationing of health care is the only solution, but new technology not only improves cancer care, it often decreases cost. it is not rational to retard advances that may later reduce costs, nor is it humane to retard advances that improve care, even if they cost more. in identifying priorities we should begin with the principle that treatments be restricted to clinical trials unless they have been demonstrated to prolong survival or improve the quality of life. if the payers reimburse procedures in an investigative setting, they will be on firm ground when they deny support for those same procedures outside an investigative setting. this is both an ethical and a fiscally responsible position for the third parties to take. it will not be easy for the profession or for the payers to deal with these problems. public education and patient education will be key elements of any solution. shifting the blame from politician to payer to professional will only make the problems worse.
the cancer experience in the framingham heart study cohort. the almost 40-year records of the framingham heart study (fhs) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects. diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes. age-specific incidence rates were compared with connecticut surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (seer) data. among the 5209 subjects, 1201 malignancies were confirmed. median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women. lung, prostate, skin, and colon accounted for more than half of men's cancers; breast, colon, and skin made up half of the women's. fhs and connecticut seer rates matched closely, with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups. thus, the fhs cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence, as it has done in cardiovascular diseases.
cartilaginous metaplasia of the epiglottis. metaplastic elastic cartilaginous tissue has been described in the vocal cord, vestibular fold and ventricle of the larynx. this report documents a case in which cartilaginous metaplasia developed in the soft tissue of the epiglottis following an episode of epiglottitis.
simultaneous hepatoblastoma in identical male twins. identical male twin infants who in 1987 presented with hepatoblastoma at the age of 7 months are reported. twin b was admitted for investigation due to enlarged liver and spleen. he was found to have an inoperable hepatoblastoma of fetal type and was treated with chemotherapy and local irradiation. however, 7 months after the chemotherapy the tumor recurred. the asymptomatic twin a was examined because of the known familial cases, and he proved to have an identical tumor. he was successfully radically operated on and 2 years after the chemotherapy is still doing well with no evidence of tumor. as the mother and the maternal grandmother had polyps in the colon, quite probably the hepatoblastomas of the twins were associated with familial adenomatous polyposis.
brainstem auditory evoked response and subcortical abnormalities in autism. previous studies of the neurobiology of autism that have used the brainstem auditory evoked response have given contradictory results. the authors of this study considered two supplementary aspects; they added an ipsilateral masking procedure, and they compared the results for every subject to the values (corrected for age and sex) of a large number of normal children. twenty autistic (according to dsm-iii-r criteria) and 13 mentally retarded (nonverbal iq less than 75) subjects were assessed. eighty percent of the autistic subjects had abnormal interpeak latencies, compared to 15% of the mentally retarded subjects. the i-v and iii-v prolonged interpeak latency values were seen only in the autistic subjects. the ipsilateral masking procedure doubled the rate of detection of higher-brainstem abnormalities in the autistic children.
alcohol and gastrointestinal bleeding. ethanol has experimentally been shown to be "ulcerogenic," independent of gastric intraluminal ph. ethanol remains ulcerogenic despite antisecretory doses of h2-receptor antagonists. low-dose alcohol stimulates acid secretion in man, an effect possibly mediated by histamine or gastrin. high-dose alcohol reduces intraluminal acid by damaging mucosa, thereby enhancing back diffusion of hydrogen ion, and also by direct damage to oxyntic (parietal) cells. ethanol is capable of increasing gastric mucosal permeability as evidenced by the increase in back diffusion (increases intraluminal ph) and by the characteristic fall in transmucosal potential difference which reflects surface cell layer exfoliation. this exfoliation may offer an explanation for the potentiating effect of alcohol on gastric mucosal injury when it is ingested simultaneously with other gastric irritants. ethanol of greater than 20% concentration can rapidly destroy the gastric mucus-bicarbonate layer, which may be a defense layer for both the inhibition of back diffusion and bicarbonate neutralization of existing acid. ethanol depletes sulfhydryl compounds in gastric mucosa. these sulfhydryls may be necessary for stabilization of cell membranes as well as for binding free radicals. ethanol is damaging to the mucosal microcirculation. the rapidity of ethanol-induced damage makes it unlikely that the process is purely ischemic. the cytoprotective phenomenon, as this brief literature review suggests, is a multifactorial, dynamic process. the complex interplay of mucosal defense factors, endogenous and exogenous stimuli, induction of humoral responses, and ultimately the success or failure of cellular repair, is unlikely to be solely mediated by endogenous prostaglandins. although prostaglandins are unquestionably significant to cytoprotection, the supporting and, perhaps, major roles of leukotrienes, sulfhydryls, histamines, and like substances cannot be ignored. several innovative therapeutic agents directly derived from these research efforts have already entered the clinician's formulary. the significance of the concept of cytoprotection is only now being realized in clinical applications. alcoholic hemorrhagic gastritis, although a significant clinical entity, remains a rather elusive diagnosis for the emergency physician. as a diagnosis of suspicion, therapeutic trials of antacids, sucralfate, or perhaps synthetic prostaglandin analogues are acceptable, pending endoscopic verification or short-term resolution of symptoms. all patients presenting with true hemorrhage or with persistent symptoms should undergo gastroenterologic referral and endoscopic evaluation. the mallory-weiss syndrome has long been associated with acute and chronic alcohol abuse.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
segmented turboflash: method for breath-hold mr imaging of the liver with flexible contrast. a method called segmented turboflash imaging allows high-resolution, multisection, short-inversion-time (ti) inversion-recovery (stir), t1- or t2-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval. the method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions. sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboflash, single-shot turboflash, t1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time, and t2-weighted spin-echo (se) techniques. signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboflash method, with tis of 10 and 300 msec, respectively; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach. signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best t2-weighted se and t1-weighted gradient-echo techniques. it is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboflash imaging. the method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis.
trends in thirty years of vaginal hysterectomy. vaginal hysterectomy, as currently performed at the university of vienna, was first described by halban in 1932. from 1955 to 1985, a total of 9,967 hysterectomies were performed. the vaginal route was used for 6,078 (60.9 per cent) of these procedures. sixty-four per cent of the women operated upon were multiparous, 27 per cent were uniparous and 8 per cent were nulliparous. a comparison of the periods 1955 to 1975 and 1976 to 1985 revealed the following trends: the incidence of uterine myomas (30.6 to 27.1 per cent), in situ carcinoma of the cervix (6.5 to 7.9 per cent) and endometrial carcinoma (1.4 to 0.6 per cent) remained largely constant. in the past decade, indications for positional abnormalities (uterine descent and prolapse) were encountered more often (27.6 to 41.6 per cent) than in the first observation period, while the incidence of recurrent metrorrhagia was found to decline (33.9 to 22.8 per cent). the most common complications included hemorrhage during the operation, lesions of the bladder, hemorrhage until 48 hours after surgical treatment and hemorrhage from days 2 to 14 postoperatively (around 0.5 per cent, respectively). during the second observation period, no postoperative fistulas developed. two instances of tubal prolapse were seen. laparotomy was done in four of 6,078 instances. two patients died of septic complications. whenever possible, we prefer vaginal hysterectomy because of its low complication rate, low mortality rate and low postoperative morbidity.
etiology and pathophysiology of pyelonephritis. escherichia coli is the most frequent cause of pyelonephritis. its possible virulence factors include the ability to adhere and colonize the urinary tract, an important initiating factor in all urinary tract infections (utis). the importance of p fimbriae in this adhesion is stressed and the evidence for its importance in pyelonephritis is presented in epidemiologic studies of patients, as well as in animal studies. it appears that both host receptor density and the nonsecretor state is responsible for susceptibility to urinary tract infection. vesicoureteral reflux can be responsible for ascending upper tract infection, but infection with p-fimbriated e coli may lead to ascending pyelonephritis without reflux because of the paralytic effect of lipid a on ureteral peristaltic activity. renal ischemia leads to renal damage following infection by reperfusion damage due to the release of superoxide. experimentally, this ischemic damage can be prevented by allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor. the acute inflammatory response can produce renal damage because of the respiratory burst of phagocytosis, which while killing phagocytosed bacteria also damages renal tubules. an amelioration of the inflammatory response by treatment with superoxide dismutase or corticosteroids has been shown to modulate renal damage. vaccination with p fimbriae has been shown experimentally to prevent the initiation of the disease. however, since vaccines are not clinically available, the clinical and animal studies on therapy of acute disease are stressed. acute pyelonephritis during the first 3 years of life more often produced the renal damage that could lead to end-stage renal disease.
intestinal vascular sensitivity to vasopressin in portal hypertensive rats. the intestinal vascular responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was evaluated in rats with chronic portal hypertension. male sprague-dawley rats were made portal hypertensive by stenosis of the portal vein. ten to twelve days after the induction of chronic portal hypertension, the responsiveness of the small intestinal circulation to cumulative doses of vasopressin was evaluated using an isolated pump-perfused small intestinal preparation. the ed50 for maximal vasoconstriction was increased twofold in portal hypertensive rats compared with control rats. to determine if the impaired responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was related to the hyperglucagonemia of chronic portal hypertension, plasma glucagon levels were elevated in normal rats to levels previously measured in portal hypertensive rats (i.e. approximately 450 pg/ml), and the dose response studies were repeated. glucagon significantly attenuated the responsiveness of the intestinal vasculature to vasopressin. equipotent doses of nitroprusside also attenuated intestinal vascular responsiveness to vasopressin. the results indicate that there is a reduced vascular sensitivity to vasopressin in the intestine of portal hypertensive animals and suggest that elevations in circulating vasodilators in portal hypertensive conditions may partially explain this altered vascular responsiveness.
clinical evaluation of single versus multiple mammary artery bypass. the superior patency and clinical advantages of internal mammary artery (ima) grafting are well established. however, the relative benefits of routine multiple ima grafting remain uncertain. to determine whether routine multiple compared with single ima utilization improved survival of patients undergoing coronary bypass procedures, 1,063 patients were prospectively allocated, beginning in 1984, to divergent management strategies of single (group 1, n = 420) versus multiple ima grafting (group 2, n = 643). subsequent analysis of anatomical extent of disease and preoperative baseline risk factors showed no differences (p = ns) between the two groups. all variables reflecting operative technique were similar (p = ns) for the two groups, except 74% of group 1 patients with multivessel disease received a single ima graft, whereas 71% of group 2 patients with multivessel disease received multiple imas (p less than 0.05). by multivariate analysis, impairment of left ventricular ejection fraction, acute evolving myocardial infarction, advanced age, and unstable angina were incremental risk factors for mortality (all p less than 0.03), but group assignment (p = 0.4) and ultimate therapy were not (p = 0.6). survival probabilities (expressed as 30-day group 1/group 2; 4-year group 1/group 2) were overall (0.97/0.98; 0.93/0.90), elective (0.98/0.99; 0.97/0.92), acute (0.95/0.97; 0.89/0.88), age of less than 65 years (0.98/0.99; 0.97/0.93), age of 65 years or older (0.93/0.97; 0.84/0.89), ejection fraction of 0.40 or more (0.97/0.99; 0.95/0.94), ejection fraction of less than 0.40 (0.95/0.96; 0.87/0.82), nondiabetic (0.98/0.98; 0.94/0.91), and diabetic (0.92/0.97; 0.88/0.87). no differences in survival were significant (p = ns).
oligoclonal t cell receptor gene rearrangements in blood lymphocytes of patients with acute epstein-barr virus-induced infectious mononucleosis. gene rearrangement studies were performed on blood lymphocytes from eight patients with acute epstein-barr virus-induced infectious mononucleosis. the diagnosis in each case was based on characteristic clinical, hematologic, and serologic findings. the blood lymphocytes in each patient consisted predominantly of cd8+ t cells. ebv dna was detected in seven patients by southern blot analysis (ebv bam hi w probe, bam hi). a germline configuration was found for the immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes (jh probe, bam hi and eco ri; c kappa probe, bam hi; and c lambda probe, eco ri). t cell receptor gene rearrangements were detected with j gamma and j beta 1 + 2 probes. using a j gamma probe with two different restriction enzymes (bgl ii and eco ri), the blood from each patient showed several bands corresponding to the polyclonal pattern previously described in the blood of normal individuals. using j beta 1 + 2 probes with two different restriction enzymes (bgl ii and bam hi), each case showed from 3 to about 12 extragermline bands of varying intensity and in different locations from case to case. in addition, each case showed relative deletion of the j beta 1 germline band. this oligoclonal pattern of t cell receptor gene rearrangements has not been previously reported in benign or malignant t cell populations.
prognostic variables in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma treated with macop-b. one hundred twenty-six patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma were treated with methotrexate with leucovorin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (macop-b) between april 1981 and june 1986. univariate and multivariate analyses were performed using overall survival as of september 1989 as the end point. four independent negative predictors of survival were identified: presence of b symptoms; more than two involved lymph node sites; more than one extranodal site (variables related to tumor burden), and age older than 60, a variable related to the patient's ability to tolerate treatment. each variable contributed the same relative risk of dying and, accordingly, this simple predictive formula was developed empirically: (4-n) x 30 = the approximate percentage of chance of survival at 5 years. "n" is the number of predictive variables present. the same four predictors were also found to be significant by multivariate analysis when only those patients achieving a complete response were analyzed.
dietary ca2+ prevents nacl-sensitive hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats by a sympatholytic mechanism. the current study tested the hypothesis that dietary ca2+ supplementation reverses the nacl-sensitive component of hypertension and the associated neurochemical abnormalities in the nacl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr-s). male shr-s were begun on one of four diets at 8 weeks of age: control (0.75% nacl/0.68% ca2+); high nacl (8.00% nacl/0.68% ca2+); high ca2+ (0.75% nacl/2.00% ca2+); and high nacl/high ca2+ (8.00% nacl/2.00% ca2+). high nacl shr-s (x2 weeks) had higher mean arterial pressure (map) (161 +/- 4 mm hg) than controls (149 +/- 3 mm hg; p less than .05). supplementation with ca2+ prevented the rise in map in high nacl rats, but did not alter map in controls. the 8% nacl diet elevated plasma norepinephrine and reduced anterior hypothalamic (aha) norepinephrine stores and turnover; concomitant ca2+ supplementation restored both plasma norepinephrine and aha norepinephrine turnover to normal. clonidine was microinjected into the aha of rats maintained on the four diets for 2 weeks to test the hypothesis that dietary ca2+ supplementation prevents the previously observed nacl-induced upregulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in aha. clonidine caused dose-dependent decreases in map that were greater in high nacl rats than in controls. the ca2+ supplementation prevented the exaggerated depressor response to clonidine in the high nacl group, but not in the controls. the ca2+ supplementation had no effect on pretreatment map or on map responses to clonidine in control nacl-resistant shr (shr-r) or wistar-kyoto (wky) rats. thus, dietary ca2+ supplementation prevents the nacl-induced exacerbation of hypertension and augmented depressor response to clonidine in shr-s by increasing noradrenergic input to aha, thereby preventing the upregulation of aha alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
prenatal diagnosis of fetal intracranial calcifications. a case is presented wherein fetal intracranial calcifications as a result of intrauterine cytomegalovirus infection were visualized by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging at 36 weeks' gestation. diagnosis of in utero cytomegalovirus infection was made by isolation of the virus from amniotic fluid. no symptomatic abnormality has been noted in the neonatal period except periventricular calcifications.
lower extremity revascularization via the lateral plantar artery. lower extremity bypass grafts to the tibial and crural arteries are commonly employed to treat patients with atherosclerotic limb-threatening ischemia. although occasional series have mentioned bypasses to a plantar artery, few of these specifically examine the results of arterial reconstructions using these vessels. six patients underwent femoral to lateral plantar artery (lpa) bypass within a 19-month period for gangrene of the forefoot. there was one early graft failure and in the five completely autogenous reconstructions, graft patency and limb salvage had been achieved during a follow-up ranging from three to 22 months. the lpa is an acceptable site for anastomosis of lower extremity bypass grafts and the early results presented herein support its more liberal use when proximal sites are unavailable.
the radiologic morphology of painful temporomandibular joints. a high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of patients having pain in the temporomandibular joint region. radiologic morphologic differences between painful and asymptomatic temporomandibular joints were in frequency rather than type. caution should be taken not to overestimate the significance of radiologic abnormality in patients with pain in the temporomandibular joint region.
cumulative aids incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections. to determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) experienced increased deaths from sepsis, central nervous system abscess, or endocarditis, new jersey aids patients were grouped according to their age, sex, race, and residence-specific cumulative incidence of aids since the onset of the aids epidemic. between 1980 and 1986, among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for aids, sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 11.9 deaths/100,000/year (95% confidence interval (6.9, 17.0) deaths/100,000/year); mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 (0.1, 3.2) deaths/100,000/year; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100,000/year to 2.4 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 1.6 (-0.5, 3.7) deaths/100,000/year. age-matched new jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of aids did not sustain a similar increase. the hiv disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in u.s. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades, but was previously limited to older populations.
relative effects of brain and non-brain injuries on neuropsychological and psychosocial outcome. based on the 242 consecutive surviving head injury cases and 132 general trauma cases, this study examined the contribution of brain and non-brain injuries to cognitive and psychosocial outcome 1 month postinjury. the study also examined the relationships among various head injury severity indices. the head injury severity indices were all correlated but patients with glasgow coma scale scores in the mild range had broadly ranging scores on the other head injury severity indices (abbreviated injury scale and time to follow commands). neuropsychological outcome was related to brain injury severity, but was not independently influenced by severity of other systems injuries. psychosocial outcome related to both brain and non-brain injuries independently. when evaluating trauma outcome, it is important to consider the contributions of both brain and other system injuries.
hypertension, cigarette smoking, and the decline in stroke incidence in eastern finland. finland has high rates of both cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease risk factors. we studied random samples of the population 30-59 years of age for risk factors in two provinces of eastern finland in 1972 and 1977. we then followed both cohorts until 1985 through linkage with national hospital discharge and death certificate registers. the prevalence of hypertension and smoking in both provinces declined between 1972 and 1977, as did the stroke incidence in the 8-year period of follow-up of each cohort. we observed no differences in stroke incidence between the two provinces. the relative risk of stroke in the later period (1977-1985) was 0.71 and 0.58 for men and women, respectively, when compared with the earlier period (1972-1980). overall, 28% of all stroke events could be attributed to hypertension, 17% to smoking, and 43% to these two factors jointly. the decrease in the prevalence of hypertension and smoking accounted for about 29% of the decline.
transrectal ultrasonography of rectal carcinoma. preoperative transrectal ultrasonographic staging of 38 patients with known adenocarcinoma of the rectum was performed. six of these patients had preoperative radiation therapy. of the 32 without radiation therapy, transrectal ultrasonography (trus) correctly staged disease limited to the rectum in 90% (18 of 20) and transmural extension in 50% (6 of 12), for a sensitivity for evaluating transmural extension of 50%, specificity of 90%, positive predictive value of 75%, and a negative predictive value of 25%. nineteen patients had positive nodes. the sensitivity and specificity of detecting nodal metastases by trus were 63% and 85%. the positive and negative predictive values were 86% and 61%, respectively. trus was slightly superior to digital rectal examination in staging patients because of its superior ability to detect adenopathy. adjacent organ involvement was correctly evaluated in five of six patients; peritumoral fibrosis was misinterpreted as tumor extension into uterus and ovary in one woman. tumor shrinkage in all patients undergoing radiation therapy was identified, but fibrosis and edema made staging by trus unreliable in those patients.
acute gastroenteritis in infants under 6 months old. sixty two babies under the age of 6 months who were admitted with gastroenteritis completed a study of gradual refeeding compared with abrupt refeeding after a period of rehydration. there was no difference in the incidence of recurrence of diarrhoea due to lactose intolerance, effect on weight, or duration of hospital stay. twenty six babies (42%) had recurrence of diarrhoea after refeeding, all of whom settled with the introduction of a lactose free soya based formula. well nourished babies under 6 months of age with mild to moderately severe gastroenteritis can be fed immediately with full strength milk feeds after rehydration. the introduction of a lactose free soya based preparation may provide an alternative to repeated attempts at regrading with cows' milk feeds in those patients with lactose intolerance.
value of plasmapheresis in hepatic encephalopathy. plasmapheresis is used for treating the complications of liver failure. we performed plasmapheresis on 6 children with hepatic encephalopathy resulting from acute hepatic failure and prospectively assessed its effects on neurologic and electrophysiologic (electroencephalography and evoked potentials) function. clinical improvement was observed in 3 of 6 patients; changes in the serum ammonia value or the results of initial electrophysiologic tests did not predict the patient response. two patients underwent transplantation after neurologic improvement was produced by plasmapheresis; however, despite plasmapheresis, 4 patients progressed to brain death. our data demonstrate that plasmapheresis may transiently improve the encephalopathy of acute hepatic failure but is not curative alone. therefore, plasmapheresis may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of liver failure, potentially improving the pretransplantation status of the patient.
cerebral infarction in patients with nephrotic syndrome. we describe two adult patients who presented with acute cerebral infarction and were found to have a hypercoagulable state due to nephrotic syndrome. one patient had a deficiency of free protein-s. the other patient had a pulmonary embolus 4 months after the stroke. our cases demonstrate that the hypercoagulable state associated with nephrotic syndrome can be associated with cerebral arterial thrombosis and infarction in adults. examination of the urine remains an important part of the evaluation of patients with recent stroke. the presence of severe proteinuria and a low serum albumin content should prompt consideration of a hypercoagulable state. our experience suggests that anticoagulant drugs may be required to reduce the risk of new thrombotic events.
post-extrasystolic potentiation without a compensatory pause in normal and diseased hearts. variables derived from left ventricular volume were used to study post-extrasystolic potentiation. left ventriculograms were obtained from 11 healthy individuals and 49 patients with coronary heart disease (30 with a previous myocardial infarction and 19 without any signs of myocardial damage). post-extrasystolic potentiation was induced by a regularly driven right atrial rhythm that was interrupted by one atrial extrasystole in such a way that the post-extrasystolic rr interval was kept equal to the basic rr interval. the left ventricular end diastolic volumes of the pre-extrasystolic and post-extrasystolic beats were equal. in all groups there was evidence of post-extrasystolic potentiation in one or more of the indices of left ventricular function (ejection fraction, mean normalised systolic ejection rate, and systolic volume, and stroke volume). potentiation was especially evident in patients with left ventricular damage; this suggests that a compensating mechanism is an intrinsic property of the myocardium. the frank-starling mechanism does not contribute to the increased performance of the post-extrasystolic beat in normal individuals or in patients with coronary artery disease.
disturbances in the cerebral perfusion of human immune deficiency virus-1 seropositive asymptomatic subjects: a quantitative tomography study of 18 cases. quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow (cbf) by xenon-133 (133xe) tomography, together with magnetic resonance imaging (mri), electroencephalography (eeg), psychometric tests, and laboratory analyses were performed on 18 human immunodeficiency virus 1 (hiv-1) seropositive asymptomatic subjects. abnormalities of cerebral perfusion were observed in 16 cases (88%). these abnormalities were particularly frequent in the frontal regions (77% of cases). mri demonstrated leucoencephalopathy in only two cases. eeg showed only induced diffuse abnormalities in two cases. psychometric tests showed restricted moderate disturbances in 55% of patients. these disturbances mostly concerned those sectors involved in cognitive functions and memorization. these results indicate that quantitative measurements of cbf by 133xe-spect is capable of detecting abnormalities of cerebral perfusion at a very early stage (phase ii) of hiv-1 infection. these abnormalities are indications of disturbances resulting from unidentified metabolic or vascular lesions. this technique appears to be superior to mri at this stage of the disease's development. it could provide objective information leading to earlier treatment, and prove useful in evaluating potential antiviral chemotherapy.
hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis. a case is presented of 14 year old female with hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis. evidence of hypothalamic obesity included 1) acute hyperphagia and weight gain, 2) neuroradiology showed hydrocephalus with focal enlargement of the third ventricle, 3) endocrinological studies revealed hyperinsulinaemia and impaired growth hormone (gh) response to arginine, but normal gh response to growth hormone-releasing factor (grf) and 4) torkildsen's ventriculo-cisternal shunting resulted in improvement in hyperphagia and obesity.
peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. in 1989, the centers for disease control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing l-tryptophan. we evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies. the neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities. two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden. sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities. electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination, with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally. examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2. levels of quinolinic acid, a neurotoxic metabolite of l-tryptophan, were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured. the cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils, l-tryptophan, its metabolic products, or contaminants within l-tryptophan preparations.
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules in the liver of patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. virus-specific t-cell responses are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of liver cell injury secondary to hepatitis b virus infection. in this study, liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were analyzed for expression of two major pathways of adhesion used by cytotoxic t cells to interact with target cells. the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 was found preferentially expressed on hepatocytes of patients with active hepatitis b virus replication, whereas the expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on hepatocytes seemed more closely related with inflammatory activity. adhesion molecules were also highly expressed on t lymphocytes found in areas of piecemeal and spotty necrosis, indicating the presence of antigen-specific "memory" t cells at the site of hepatocellular injury. this study suggests that the expression of the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 on hepatocytes may be important for viral elimination. the coordinate expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 may regulate inflammatory response and enhance viral antigen presentation to t cells. conversely, the absence of hepatocyte adhesion molecules might be a favorable factor for viral persistence.
the roux operation for postgastrectomy syndromes. the aim of this paper is to describe the technique, indications, and results of the roux operation as used in the treatment of postgastrectomy syndromes. a roux gastrojejunostomy with a 40-cm roux limb is the procedure of choice for alkaline reflux gastritis, because it virtually eliminates reflux of bile and pancreatic juice into the stomach. the slow transit through a roux limb can also be used to good advantage to slow gastric emptying in patients with dumping. patients with delayed gastric emptying respond to the combination of near-total gastric resection, which removes the atonic gastric remnant and speeds emptying, and roux-y gastrojejunostomy, which prevents reflux esophagitis and provides a reservoir for ingesta in the upper gut. after all roux operations, however, the roux limb may slow emptying so much that pain, fullness, nausea, and food vomiting result, the so-called roux stasis syndrome. prevention of the roux stasis syndrome with an "uncut" roux limb and the treatment of the syndrome by using electrical pacing to suppress the ectopic pacemakers that emerge in the limb offer possible new solutions to this vexing problem.
anorexia in older patients: its meaning and management. in the elderly, clinically significant weight loss is closely related to malnutrition, the causes of which can proliferate in this age group. clinicians must therefore keep a wide range of possible etiologies in mind when evaluating these patients. these fall into the general categories of social, psychological, medical, and age-related. isolating the cause will direct what is often simple, effective, and, perhaps, life-saving therapy.
effects of tromethamine and hyperventilation on brain injury in the cat. the metabolic brain acidosis after trauma has been thought to be harmful and to contribute to neurological deterioration. amelioration of the brain acidosis either by systemic buffering agents or by hyperventilation has been proposed as a method of treatment. the objective of this study was to explore with magnetic resonance (mr) spectroscopy the metabolic changes in brain that occur with the use of hyperventilation, tham (tromethamine; tris[hydroxymethyl]aminomethane), and a combination (tham and hyperventilation) therapy in experimental fluid-percussion injury. brain lactate, brain ph, inorganic phosphate (pi), and adenosine triphosphate levels were measured by 1h and 31p mr spectroscopy. arterial and cerebrovenous lactate and water content in brain tissue was determined in 29 cats using the specific gravimetric technique. following injury, the phosphocreatine (pcr)/pi ratio, which is an index of cerebral energy depletion, decreased to 76% in four untreated animals, to 79% in 11 tham-treated animals, to 68% in seven animals receiving hyperventilation, and to 66% in seven animals with combination tham and hyperventilation therapy. the pcr/pi ratio returned to a normal level in 8 hours in animals treated with tham and tham in combination with hyperventilation. the brain lactate index increased to 157% in the hyperventilation group after trauma. in cats receiving tham plus hyperventilation, the brain lactate index was reduced to 142%, while the minimum rise of 126% was associated with treatment of tham alone. in the tham-treatment and combination-treatment groups, the water content of the white and gray matter was significantly decreased compared with that in untreated cat brains. prolonged hyperventilation provided relative ischemia in brain tissue and promoted more production of brain lactate, no recovery of the pcr/pi ratio, and no decrease in brain edema. on the other hand, administration of tham decreased production of brain lactate and brain edema and promoted the recovery of cerebral energy dysfunction. it was found that tham ameliorates the deleterious effects of hyperventilation by minimizing energy disturbance and that it also decreases brain edema. the authors conclude that tham may be effective in reducing brain tissue acidosis and helpful as a metabolic stabilizing agent following severe head injury.
regulatory control of the terminal complement proteins at the surface of human endothelial cells: neutralization of a c5b-9 inhibitor by antibody to cd59. functionally inhibitory antibody to the plasma membrane complement inhibitor cd59 has been used to investigate control of the terminal complement proteins at the endothelial cell surface. antibodies against purified human erythrocyte cd59 (polyclonal anti-cd59 and monoclonal antibodies [moabs] 1f1 and 1f5) were found to bind specifically to monolayers of cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells, and by western blotting to recognize an 18- to 21-kd endothelial protein. when bound to the endothelial monolayer, anti-cd59 (immunoglobulin g or fab fragment) potentiated membrane pore formation induced upon c9 binding to c5b-8, and augmented the c5b-9-induced cellular responses, including stimulated secretion of von willebrand factor and expression of catalytic surface for the prothrombinase enzyme complex. although potentiating endothelial responses to the terminal complement proteins, anti-cd59 had no effect on the response of these cells to stimulation by histamine. taken together, these data suggest that human endothelial cells express the cd59 cell surface inhibitor of the terminal complement proteins, which serves to protect these cells from pore-forming and cell-stimulatory effects of the c5b-9 complex. these data also suggest that the inactivation or deletion of this cell surface regulatory molecule would increase the likelihood for procoagulant changes in endothelium exposed to complement activation in plasma.
coronary artery fistula formation secondary to permanent pacemaker placement. we present the findings in two patients who apparently developed a coronary artery fistula as a complication of an endocardial pacing electrode. this complication may actually be occurring more frequently than recognized because the patient may be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic and therefore not undergo a coronary angiogram. awareness of this potentially serious complication is important and stresses the need for proper electrode placement without excess pressure on the tip.
successful cpr in a severely hypothermic patient using continuous thoracostomy lavage. severe hypothermia with cardiopulmonary arrest often requires prolonged resuscitation while rewarming procedures are implemented. a 63-year-old male in cardiopulmonary arrest with a core body temperature of 23.7 c was resuscitated successfully after core rewarming by means of a two-chest-tube continuous thoracostomy lavage procedure. this lavage procedure resulted in effective and rapid rewarming after other conventional rewarming methods had failed.
genetic analysis of breast cancer in the cancer and steroid hormone study. the familial risk of breast cancer is investigated in a large population-based, case-control study conducted by the centers for disease control. the data set is based on 4,730 histologically confirmed breast cancer cases aged 20 to 54 years and on 4,688 controls who were frequency matched to cases on the basis of both geographic region and 5-year categories of age, and it includes family histories, obtained through interviews of cases and controls, of breast cancer in mothers and sisters. segregation analysis and goodness-of-fit tests of genetic models provide evidence for the existence of a rare autosomal dominant allele (q = .0033) leading to increased susceptibility to breast cancer. the effect of genotype on the risk of breast cancer is shown to be a function of a woman's age. although, compared with noncarriers, carriers of the allele appear to be at greater risk at all ages, the ratio of age-specific risks is greatest at young ages and declines steadily thereafter. the proportion of cases predicted to carry the allele is highest (36%) among cases aged 20-29 years. this proportion gradually decreases to 1% among cases aged 80 years or older. the cumulative lifetime risk of breast cancer for women who carry the susceptibility allele is predicted to be high, approximately 92%, while the cumulative lifetime risk for noncarriers is estimated to be approximately 10%.
a case of myelinoclastic diffuse sclerosis in an adult. we report a case of rapidly progressive cerebral demyelinating disease in a previously healthy 40-year-old woman. this case satisfies the diagnostic criteria for myelinoclastic diffuse sclerosis (mds), but is unusual in the age of onset. this is the 1st case of mds in an adult with full documentation of clinical, biochemical, radiographic, and pathologic features.
cytokine accumulations in csf of multiple sclerosis patients: frequent detection of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor but not interleukin-6. we identified the cytokines interleukin-1 beta (il-1 beta), tumor necrosis factor (tnf), and interleukin-6 (il-6) by specific radioimmunoassays in the csf of patients with multiple sclerosis (ms) and other neurologic diseases (ond). there was a high incidence of detectable il-1 beta in patients with active ms compared with inactive ms or ond patients. tnf was also more frequently present in active ms than in ond csf. by contrast, most ms csf did not contain detectable il-6. there was no correlation between the degree of csf pleocytosis and the level of individual cytokines, suggesting that cytokine accumulations may be derived from cns, and not csf, cells. as il-1 beta and tnf experimentally induce astrogliosis, demyelination, temperature elevation, lassitude, and sleep, and results raise the possibility that these cytokines may contribute to a variety of manifestations in ms and in other disease states.
mixed form, diffusely scattered calcifications in breast cancer with apocrine features diffusely scattered calcifications visible with mammography are almost always benign. certain patterns, however, should arouse concern. for example, extensive comedocarcinoma is associated with large areas of mammographically visible calcium deposition. the authors identified 10 women in whom calcifications were visible throughout large volumes of breast tissue at mammography. the calcifications did not resemble those typical of extensive comedocarcinoma, yet they were associated with extensive breast cancer. their mammographic pattern was characterized by a strikingly wild, chaotic appearance with profuse deposition of calcium. as in many cancers, the particles were heterogeneous, but unlike in most carcinomas, many deposits had a typically benign morphology. histologic examination showed that even these typically benign calcifications were associated with malignant cells. the authors believe that the apocrine features displayed by many of the cancer cells in these 10 patients may explain the unusual profusion of calcium deposits.
how selective is selective posterior rhizotomy? although selective posterior rhizotomy has become an increasingly utilized surgical treatment for spasticity, the procedure is unstandardized and is performed differently at various medical centers. most surgeons use some form of direct dorsal rootlet stimulation with intraoperative multichannel electromyographic response monitoring. electrophysiological monitoring offers the theoretical advantage of identifying pathologic reflex circuits for interruption while preserving those pathways that are "normal." however, the monitoring technique most commonly used has not been critically evaluated and, therefore, its value remains uncertain. in 22 selective posterior rhizotomy procedures performed for spastic cerebral palsy, the authors were unable to identify a single electromyographic response that could be called normal by presently accepted criteria. dorsal rootlets were chosen for division on the basis of relative degrees of abnormality. intraoperative electromyographic monitoring of a nonspastic patient produced tracings suggestive of spasticity by presently accepted criteria. these discrepancies suggest that current electrophysiological monitoring in selective posterior rhizotomy should be reevaluated.
side effects of nalbuphine while reversing opioid-induced respiratory depression: report of four cases. nalbuphine hydrochloride, an agonist-antagonist opioid, is reported to reverse the respiratory depression of moderate doses of fentanyl (20 micrograms.kg-1) and still provide good analgesia. we report four patients having abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in which we attempted to reverse the respiratory depression of large doses of fentanyl (50-75 micrograms.kg-1) with nalbuphine (0.3 mg.kg-1, 0.1 mg.kg-1 or 0.05 mg.kg-1). nalbuphine reversed respiratory depression in all four patients and the respiratory rate increased from 10 to 23 breaths per minute, end-tidal co2 decreased from 7.0 +/- 0.3 per cent to 5.6 +/- 0.7 per cent, and peak inspiratory pressure after 0.1 seconds increased from 4 +/- 1.4 to 13 +/- 2.6 mmhg. however, hypertension, increased heart rate, and significant increase in analogue pain scores accompanied reversal of respiratory depression. agitation, nausea, vomiting, and cardiac dysrhythmias also were observed frequently. we do not recommend the use of nalbuphine to facilitate early extubation of the trachea after large doses of fentanyl for abdominal aortic surgery.
prognostic significance of type iv collagen and laminin immunoreactivity in urothelial carcinomas of the bladder. invasion of a carcinoma involves the degradation and penetration of the subepithelial basement membrane (bm). this phenomenon might be used for histopathologic evaluation of neoplasms of the bladder. the authors studied the clinicopathologic data and tissue specimens of 125 cases of urothelial carcinomas collected prospectively. penetration of the bm was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining of the bm components laminin and type iv collagen. the use of this parameter as a prognostic indicator in bladder cancer was assessed. the 5-year survival rate of patients having tumors with an interrupted or absent bm was significantly lower than that of patients having tumors with an intact bm. the rate of progression was greater in tumors with an interrupted or absent bm than in tumors with an intact bm. no association was found between bm status and recurrence. however, a significant correlation between tumor stage and bm staining was found. a correlation was also found between ploidy and bm staining as well as between histologic grade and bm staining pattern. when evaluating histologic grade, stage, ploidy, age, and bm score as prognostic parameters, the stage of bladder carcinomas turned out to be the most important factor in predicting the survival rate and the progression-free survival. however, bm staining was found to be of value for early identification of microinvasion and is helpful for correct staging of urothelial carcinomas.
cancer chemotherapy after solid organ transplantation. to assess how well chemotherapy is tolerated after solid organ transplantation, we reviewed our experience at the children's hospital of pittsburgh with five patients aged 1 to 12 years. four patients had a liver transplant, indications for which were hepatoblastoma in two patients, hepatic failure secondary to wilms' tumor chemoradiotherapy in one patient, and familial intrahepatic cholestasis in one patient. a fifth patient received a cardiac transplant for unresectable angiosarcoma of the right atrium. after transplant, chemotherapy was given for the treatment of the primary malignancy in four of the patients. the patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis received chemotherapy for secondary lymphoproliferative disease that had not responded to the cessation of immunosuppression. all patients other than this patient were on immunosuppression with prednisone (0.5 to 2 mg/kg daily) and cyclosporine (to maintain serum levels at 800 to 1000 ng/ml radioimmunoassay) throughout the duration of chemotherapy. courses of chemotherapy included one or more of the following agents: adriamycin (adr, 20 mg/m2 daily, three patients), cyclophosphamide (ctx, 1 gm/m2, one patient), cisplatin (cddp, 90 mg/m2, one patient), vincristine (vcr, greater than 0.75 to 1.5 mg/m2, three patients), actinomycin d (act-d, 7.5 micrograms/kg, one patient), ifosfamide (i, 1800 mg/m2, one patient) and etoposide (vp-16, 100 mg/m2, one patient). all patients received greater than or equal to 3 courses (range, 3 to 9; mean, 5) of chemotherapy every 3 to 4 weeks. dose reductions were made because of neutropenia in three patients but none were greater than 50%. severe rejection was seen in one patient who had, however, manifested evidence of rejection prior to his first postoperative course of chemotherapy. no nephro or cardiac toxicity was seen. this preliminary experience suggests that chemotherapy is well tolerated after solid organ transplantation.
developmental dysmnesia in a poor reader. a 22-yr-old subject with moderate developmental dyslexia experienced poor memory from an early age. in spite of normal intelligence he had great difficulty in learning historical and geographical names, mathematical formulae, poems and songs, and verbal series such as the letters of the alphabet and the months of the year. his recognition of familiar faces was also faulty at times. a battery of memory tests confirmed a moderate deficit of verbal as well as visual memory, whereas spatial memory was preserved. other cognitive functions were intact, except for a mild reading disability. no evidence of brain pathology was provided by his history, neurological examination and ct scanning.
phospholipids from rat, human, and canine gastric mucosa. composition and metabolism of molecular classes of phosphatidylcholine. to validate a recent proposal that a phospholipid lining with a high content of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine may protect gastric mucosa against luminal acid, it was decided to study composition and metabolism of phospholipids in the gastric mucosa. phospholipids were analyzed in rat, human, and dog gastric mucosal surface tissue and in a chloroform/methanol-lavage of rat and canine stomach. phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine were the main components. saturated fatty acids were almost exclusively esterified at the sn-1 position of the glycerol moiety of phosphatidylcholine, and unsaturated fatty acids mainly at the sn-2 position. the disaturated class of phosphatidylcholine comprised 2%-6% of total phosphatidylcholine. precursors of phosphatidylcholine, i.e., [32p]orthophosphate and [methyl-14c]choline, were preferentially incorporated into the disaturated molecular class 0.5-6 hours after iv administration. it can be speculated that disaturated phosphatidylcholine, although quantitatively a minor component, is specifically triggered in mucosal renewal processes.
the beta globin 3' enhancer element confers regulated expression on the human gamma globin gene in the human embryonic-fetal erythroleukemia cell line k562. we have constructed fusion genes comprised of gamma and beta globin elements and globin sequences linked to neomycin resistance (neor) genes to define the cis acting sequences responsible for developmental stage-specific expression and induction of fetal globin genes in embryonic-fetal erythroleukemia k562 cells. the results indicate that the gamma promoter is required for proper initiation of transcription. however, the accumulation of gamma globin transcripts in response to hemin induction requires the additional presence of either gamma intervening sequence 2 or the 3' enhancer element of the beta globin gene. thus, the gamma promoter may provide the elements for developmental stage-specific gene expression during fetal life. by contrast, the beta 3' enhancer is erythroid-specific but not developmental stage- or gene-specific.
pressure measurements from biliary and pancreatic segments of sphincter of oddi. comparison between patients with functional abdominal pain, biliary, or pancreatic disease. using a minimally compliant infusion system and a triple-lumen pressure recording catheter, we obtained endoscopic manometric measurements from both the common bile duct and pancreatic duct segments of the sphincter of oddi (so) in 58 patients. fifteen patients (ages 27-69) had the diagnosis of functional abdominal pain, 19 patients (ages 30-76) had partial biliary obstruction, and 24 patients (ages 15-80) had idiopathic acute recurrent pancreatitis. resting ductal pressure was similar in the common bile duct and pancreatic duct in all patient groups. in the group with functional pain, basal so pressure was similar, whether obtained from the common bile duct or pancreatic duct sphincteric segment. eight of 19 patients with partial biliary obstruction had elevated basal so pressure. five of these eight patients had elevated basal so pressure confined exclusively to the common bile duct segment of the sphincter, while three patients had elevated basal so in both segments. conversely seven of 24 patients with acute recurrent pancreatitis had an elevated basal so pressure, with five patients having pressure elevation only in the pancreatic duct segment while two patients had abnormal basal so pressure in both segments. we conclude that selective cannulation of the common bile duct and/or the pancreatic duct during manometric study of the so is necessary in order to diagnose segmental so dysfunction responsible for partial biliary obstruction or episodes of acute recurrent pancreatitis.
the epidemiology of impaired glucose tolerance and hypertension. epidemiologic research indicates that glucose intolerance and hypertension are interrelated phenomena, each powerfully predisposing to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. both diabetic and hypertensive patients have greater amounts of atherogenic risk factors, including dyslipidemia, hyperuricemia, elevated fibrinogen, and left ventricular hypertrophy. diabetic persons have an increased prevalence of hypertension (50%), and glucose intolerance is more common in hypertension (15% to 18%). both share a strong relationship to excess weight, but the excess of hypertension in diabetic persons occurs in both lean and obese subjects. diabetes doubles the risk of hypertension associated with overweight. the risk of coronary disease, stroke, and peripheral arterial disease increases with increasing blood pressure to the same degree in diabetic persons as in nondiabetic persons, but at any level of blood pressure, diabetic persons have a doubled risk of these outcomes. both diabetic and hypertensive patients are particularly prone to silent or unrecognized myocardial infarctions. greater efforts at primary prevention of both hypertension and diabetes are clearly needed, including efforts at weight control, exercise, limitation of salt intake, and control of blood lipid levels. in either diabetic or hypertensive candidates for cardiovascular disease, optimization of the chances of avoiding sequelae requires a comprehensive multifactorial approach. prevention requires more than normalization of either the blood sugar or blood pressure. rational preventive measures must also include weight reduction, a fat-modified diet, cessation of smoking cigarettes, raising high-density lipoprotein, lowering low-density lipoprotein, and reduction of fibrinogen. hypertension, obesity, insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol tend to coexist.
general assay for phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid: a candidate marker for paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. the components of protein phosphorylation systems (protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and their phosphoprotein substrates) are highly enriched in neuronal cells compared with other cell types. we exploited this relative neuronal enrichment of protein phosphorylation system components to develop a general assay technique for putative protein kinase substrates (phosphoproteins) in human cerebrospinal fluid. using this cerebrospinal fluid phosphoprotein assay, we have detected a putative protein kinase c substrate protein of apparent mr 60 kd in 6 of 14 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration but not in any of 55 patients with a variety of other neurological diseases. phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid may provide novel and unique markers for the diagnosis or staging of neuronal diseases as well as offer potential insights into the biochemical characterization of affected neuronal populations.
myocardial infarction in mexican-americans and non-hispanic whites. the san antonio heart study. mexican-american men experience reduced cardiovascular mortality compared with non-hispanic white men. there is no corresponding ethnic difference in cardiovascular mortality in women. the difference in men could result either from a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease or a lower case fatality rate among mexican-americans. although the incidence of cardiovascular disease in mexican-americans is unknown, we have collected data on prevalence of myocardial infarction in 5,148 individuals examined in the san antonio heart study, a population-based survey of cardiovascular disease conducted between 1979 and 1988 in mexican-americans and non-hispanic whites aged 25-64 years. myocardial infarction was assessed by minnesota-coded electrocardiograms and by a self-reported history of a physician-diagnosed heart attack. for both end points, the age-adjusted prevalence of myocardial infarction was lower in mexican-american men than in non-hispanic white men. after adjustment for age and diabetes status (present/absent), the odds of a myocardial infarction, as defined by either criterion, was approximately one third lower in mexican-american men than in non-hispanic white men (p = 0.06). in women, the prevalence of both myocardial infarction end points was slightly higher in mexican-americans than in non-hispanic whites, although neither of these differences was significant. although the ethnic differences in prevalence in this study were not statistically significant, their pattern parallels the pattern in the mortality due to cardiovascular diseases. therefore, the results support the hypothesis that the reduced cardiovascular mortality rate observed in mexican-american men reflects a lower incidence of myocardial infarction rather than a reduced case fatality rate because the latter would result in a higher prevalence.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and peptic ulcer disease. evidence has accumulated that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) cause clinically important gastroduodenal ulcers. the pathogenesis, which involves the impairment of mucosal resistance to injury in an acid-peptic environment, is multifactorial and controversial. ulcers caused by nsaids can occur either in mucosa inflamed because of infection with helicobacter pylori or in histologically normal mucosa. the use of these drugs has been linked to an unexpectedly high incidence of ulcer complications, and a history of peptic ulcer disease is common in such cases. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs thus appear both to exacerbate an underlying peptic diathesis and to cause de novo ulcers. the association between the use of these drugs and ulcer complications is supported by ulcer prevalence data from cross-sectional studies, and by data from case-controlled and cohort studies, and from randomized, experimental trials. drug-induced gastric ulcers have been prevented by misoprostol, but not by h2 blocker therapy. several therapies have been reported to promote ulcer healing despite continued use of nsaids, but adequate controlled trials have not been done. small gastric and duodenal ulcers readily heal, whereas larger gastric ulcers require vigorous and prolonged therapy. the relative efficacies of various therapies in preventing ulcers, healing ulcers, or preventing complications remain to be established.
exogenous opioids in human breast milk and acute neonatal neurobehavior: a preliminary study. opioid analgesia requirements, distribution into breast milk, and influence on neonatal neurobehavior were evaluated in ten parturient-neonate pairs nursing after elective cesarean section during epidural anesthesia. five patients received first a loading dose of intravenous meperidine after umbilical cord clamping, then patient-controlled analgesia (pca) with intravenous meperidine, and finally meperidine tablets as needed. five patients received morphine in the same manner. treatment groups showed no differences with respect to neonatal apgar scores or visual analog scale (vas) pain or satisfaction scores at 24 and 48 h postpartum. breast milk specimens, obtained at 12, 24, 36, 48, 72, and 96 h postpartum and analyzed for opioids and metabolites, showed persistently elevated normeperidine concentrations in the meperidine group. a blinded psychologist evaluated each infant once on the 3rd day of life with the brazelton neonatal behavioral assessment scale (nbas). a priori, the "alertness" and three "human orientation" outcomes of the nbas were chosen for analysis as best measures of opioid-induced effects. on all four outcomes, neonates in the morphine group scored significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than neonates in the meperidine group. we conclude that post-cesarean delivery pca with morphine provides equivalent maternal analgesia and overall satisfaction as that provided by pca with meperidine, but with significantly less neurobehavioral depression among breast-fed neonates on the 3rd day of life.
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection in the peoples republic of china. meta-analysis on data from 16 (two volunteer and 14 endoscopic) studies ahs been performed to investigate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection in the stomachs of individuals within the peoples republic of china. in this survey covering 2216 cases (89 volunteers and 2127 endoscopy patients), the incidence of h. pylori infection in 15- to 22-yr-old healthy volunteers, and in 13- to 88-yr-old symptomatic patients undergoing gastroscopy was 49.4% and 64.5%, respectively. the frequency of h. pylori infection in chronic gastritis (63.6%), gastric ulcer (71.9%), and duodenal ulcer disease (73.1%) differed significantly from that in histologically normal individuals (8.2%), confirming the relationship of h. pylori infection with those disease states. we found no significant association between h. pylori infection and symptoms.
coagulation-fibrinolysis abnormalities in acute and chronic phases of cerebral thrombosis and embolism. we assayed plasma concentrations of fibrinogen, fibrinopeptide a, plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex, d dimer, and antithrombin iii activity in 40 patients with cerebral thrombosis and nine patients with cerebral embolism during the acute (less than 7 days), subacute (7-27 days), and chronic (greater than or equal to 28 days) periods and compared these with 69 controls. in cerebral thrombosis, fibrinogen and fibrinopeptide a levels were elevated significantly in all stages (p less than 0.001), whereas plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex and d dimer levels were elevated significantly in the subacute and chronic periods. the antithrombin iii activity was significantly decreased in the acute stage. the elevation of fibrinogen and plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex levels in the acute stage was significantly greater in patients with an infarct size greater than 10 mm2 compared to patients with an infarct size less than 10 mm2. we observed similar changes in patients with cerebral embolism. these results suggest that enhanced coagulation exists at all stages and endogenous fibrinolysis is activated in the subacute and chronic periods in a large proportion of patients with cerebral thrombosis and embolism.
isolated primary aldosteronism in a patient with adrenal carcinoma and xy/xxy mosaic klinefelter's syndrome. although breast cancer, germ cell tumors and other neoplasms are known to occur in patients with klinefelter's syndrome, adrenal carcinoma has not yet been reported in such patients. we describe a rare case of severe primary aldosteronism as the unique manifestation of a large adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient with klinefelter's syndrome. complete biological and hormonal evaluation was performed. surgical treatment was successful and the patient remained asymptomatic with normal biological and hormonal values after 1 year of followup.
reversal of cardiac and vascular hypertrophy by antihypertensive therapy. cardiovascular hypertrophy, such as left ventricular hypertrophy, and arteriolar hypertrophic changes are common in established hypertension. left ventricular hypertrophy, in particular, markedly increases the risk of cardiovascular complications and death. the ability of an antihypertensive agent to reverse hypertrophic changes could, therefore, be greatly advantageous. clinical studies with beta-blockers have shown them able to substantially reduce left ventricular hypertrophy. for reversal of arteriolar hypertrophy, vasodilatory beta-blockers have been shown to be preferable to ordinary beta-blockers, possibly because vasodilation reduces vascular smooth-muscle tone, which may facilitate reversal of hypertrophy. theoretically, a vasodilatory beta-blocker, such as celiprolol, would therefore appear to offer advantages because of its ability to reverse left ventricular and arteriolar hypertrophy in addition to its antihypertensive action. the practical and clinical effects of cardiovascular hypertrophy reversal remain to be fully evaluated; however, it is logical to assume that they would be of considerable benefit to the hypertensive patient.
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors: a possible late effect of therapy. three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor. radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma, gliosis, and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two. no tumor was found. all 3 patients remain in long-term (greater than 10 years) continuous remission.
cause of death in an emergency department a retrospective review was done of 601 consecutive emergency department deaths. nontrauma causes accounted for 77% of the deaths and this group had an average age of 64 years and a male to female ratio of 1.9:1. trauma caused 23% of the fatalities and this group had a younger average age of 29 years and a male to female ratio of 4.6:1. the most common causes of nontrauma death were sudden death of uncertain cause (34%), coronary artery disease (34%), cancer (5%), other heart disease (4%), chronic obstructive lung disease (3%), drug overdose (3%), and sudden infant death syndrome (2%). the most common causes of trauma death were motor vehicle accidents (61%) and gunshot wounds (16%). the overall autopsy rate was 40%. death certificates were often in error.
site of action of continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve block. continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve block has been shown in a randomized, controlled study to be effective in reducing postoperative pain after thoracotomy and in restoring pulmonary mechanics. to assess the extent of spread of bupivacaine infused through an extrapleurally placed cannula inserted at thoracotomy, iohexol (omnipaque) was infused at 5 days postoperatively in 5 patients and computed tomography performed. the contrast medium was confined to the paravertebral space covering on average six intercostal spaces. this study demonstrated that anatomically, the site of action of the bupivacaine infused through an extrapleural cannula was primarily in the paravertebral space.
survival with regional and distant metastases from cutaneous malignant melanoma. the clinical course of 312 consecutive patients after initial presentation with metastatic melanoma, 165 of whom presented with regional metastases at cutaneous or subcutaneous, or both, nodal sites and 147 with metastases at distant sites, was reviewed. the five year survival rate for regional metastases was 43.4 per cent compared with a five year survival rate for distant metastases of 4.9 per cent (p less than 0.0001). favorable prognostic variables for survival from first regional metastases included primary melanoma sites on the extremities compared with the head, neck and trunk (p = 0.043) and a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to regional metastases (p = 0.0058). favorable prognostic variables for survival from the first distant metastasis included a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to distant metastases (p = 0.0092), the type of resection of metastatic disease (p = 0.00027) and the addition of systemic immunotherapy (p = 0.0011). forty-nine patients with totally resectable distant metastases had a five year survival rate from the treatment of the initial metastasis of 13.1 per cent, whereas 33 patients having palliative resections had a five year survival rate of 7.5 per cent. all 165 patients who did not have resection for distant metastases died within five years. the results of our experience support therapeutic efforts to ablate both regional and distant metastases of malignant melanoma when feasible.
short-term and long-term changes in renal function after donor nephrectomy. we retrospectively examined the effect of nephrectomy on renal function in 55 living related donors. renal function was measured with 131iodine-orthoiodohippurate scans. all patients were studied preoperatively, and 1 week and 1 year postoperatively. in 20 patients 10-year followup was available. compensatory hypertrophy was complete 1 week postoperatively: effective renal plasma flow of the remaining kidney was 32.5% higher than preoperatively. the increase remained stable for at least a year. the degree of compensatory hypertrophy was significantly greater in male patients (46.9% after 1 week) than in female patients (26.7%). compensatory hypertrophy occurred in all age groups studied and it was most pronounced in patients less than 30 years old. in the patients followed for 10 years effective renal plasma flow decreased from 387.7 ml. per minute 1 week after nephrectomy to 367.4 ml. per minute at 10 years. this result is similar to the decrease seen in the normal population. according to our results, renal donation by living related persons does not lead to long-term decrease in renal function.
a single cholesterol measurement underestimates the risk of coronary heart disease. an empirical example from the lipid research clinics mortality follow-up study. in prospective epidemiologic studies of coronary heart disease, a single measurement of cholesterol is made to assess its relationship to the risk of coronary disease. statistical theory states that if this measurement is subject to within-individual variability, the strength of the relationship will be underestimated. this is empirically shown for the example of plasma cholesterol. for the lipid research clinics follow-up study population (comprising 2170 white men over 30 years of age), the age-adjusted coronary heart disease mortality regression coefficient increases from .453 to .496 if the average of two cholesterol measurements is used instead of a single measurement. since the correlation between the two repeated cholesterol measurements is .815, an increase in the regression coefficient up to .556 would be expected if the true cholesterol values were available. thus, epidemiologic studies have substantially underestimated the strength of the relationship between cholesterol levels and the risk of coronary disease by calculating the relationship on the basis of a single cholesterol determination.
predicting distant metastases in operable breast cancer patients. risk factors for distant metastases following mastectomy and axillary node dissection for breast cancer were analyzed in a review of 1022 women. from diagnosis until the end of the adjuvant treatment, six stages were identified that corresponded well to patient data acquisition. at each stage, a prognosis study based on the cox model was carried out using all acquired information from the first stage. the results demonstrated that tumor size, nuclear pleomorphism, mitotic index, and nodal status at the top of axilla were stable independent risk factors in predicting metastasis-free survival (mfs). these analyses also revealed those factors that were significantly related to mfs at one or several stages and losing their significance at a subsequent stage. this was the case with clinical node status, age, and vascular tumor emboli. other factors such as estrogen, progesterone, histologic grade, and clinical stage were never identified as independent factors at any stage. the four major stable risk factors were used to define a stratification of reference. the results demonstrated that the mere knowledge of clinical information such as tumor size, clinical node status, and age would enable 51% of the patients to be universally well classified according to that stratification. knowledge of additional factors, such as nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic index, would bring the rate up to 61%, and then to 64% if supplementary information such as vascular tumor emboli were acquired. these percentages did not appear high enough to claim that the physician may make a reliable prognosis of operable breast cancer patients before acquiring information from the axillary node dissection. however, it was proven that there exist some subsets of patients with stable prognosis, i.e., subsets of patients who will belong permanently to the same risk group through the stages.
effects of alpha 1-blockade on arterial compliance in normotensive and hypertensive rats. the effects of blockade of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors on the mechanical properties of the arterial wall were studied in 10 spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) as compared with 10 matched normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky) rats. ascending aortic pressure and flow were recorded in open-chest anesthetized rats, and the systemic arterial compliance was calculated. intravenous injection (1 mg/kg) of urapidil, a selective alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist, induced a significant decrease in arterial pressure (-26%, p less than 0.01 and -37%, p less than 0.001 in wky rats and shr, respectively) without significant changes in cardiac output. in control conditions, systemic arterial compliance was lower in shr (3.29 +/- 1.52 microliters/mm hg) than in wky rats (4.35 +/- 1.35 microliters/mm hg, p less than 0.01). urapidil injection induced significant increases in systemic arterial compliance values in both strains (p less than 0.001). in another set of experiments (15 wky rats and 15 shr), the carotid compliance (microliters/mm hg) was determined from the arterial volume-pressure relation under control conditions, after local incubation with urapidil, and after total abolition of the vascular smooth muscle by kcn. in wky rats, the carotid compliance increased markedly after incubation with urapidil at doses corresponding to 1 mg/kg (+31%, p less than 0.01). a further increase in the carotid compliance was observed after kcn poisoning (+11%, p less than 0.05). in shr, incubation with urapidil at doses corresponding to 2 mg/kg were necessary to induce a significant increase in compliance (+38%). at this dosage, there was no further increase in compliance after kcn poisoning.
association between blood pressure and serum lipids in a population. the tromso study. background. high blood pressure has been associated with elevated atherogenic blood lipid fractions, but epidemiological surveys often give inconsistent results across population subgroups. a better understanding of the relation between blood pressure and blood lipids may provide insight into the mechanism(s) whereby hypertension is associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease. methods and results. we assessed the cross-sectional relations of serum total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol, non-hdl cholesterol (total minus hdl cholesterol), and triglyceride levels with blood pressure in a population of 8,081 men 20-54 years old and 7,663 women 20-49 years old. stratified analyses and multivariable methods were used to control for potential confounding anthropometric and lifestyle variables. total and non-hdl cholesterol levels increased significantly with increasing systolic or diastolic blood pressure in both sexes. men 20-29 years old had steeper regression slopes for blood pressure by total cholesterol level than did women of similar age. in men, the association between blood pressure and total cholesterol level decreased with age, whereas in women, it increased with age. body mass index modified the relation, whereas smoking, physical activity, and alcohol consumption had little influence on the association. triglyceride levels increased with blood pressure, but this relation was weak in lean subjects. hdl cholesterol level correlated positively with blood pressure in population subgroups having a high alcohol consumption. conclusion. these results support the hypothesis that there are biological interrelations between blood pressure and blood lipids that may influence the mechanisms whereby blood pressure is associated with risk of coronary heart disease.
indium-labeled anti-colorectal carcinoma monoclonal antibody accumulation in non-tumored tissue in patients with colorectal carcinoma. indium-111- (111in) labeled murine monoclonal antibodies zce 025 (against carcinoembryonic antigen) and cyt-103 mab b72.3 (against tumor-associated glycoprotein - 72) have been used to image patients with colorectal cancers with encouraging results. the objectives of this study were to assess the frequency and causes of 111in mab localization in tumor-free, benign tissues. thus, scans of 75 patients who have undergone exploratory surgery following radioimmunoscintigraphy with 111in-zce 025 (n = 37) or 111in-cyt-103 (n = 38) were reviewed in conjunction with operative and histopathology reports. localization in non-tumored tissues was seen in 10.8% and 13.1%, respectively, of patients receiving zce 025 and cyt-103. the most common sites involved were: degenerative joint disease, abdominal aneurysms, postoperative bowel adhesions, and local inflammatory changes secondary to surgery or external irradiation. review of patients' medical history and results of concurrent diagnostic modalities is likely to lessen the false-positive rate of 111in-labeled mab scan interpretation.
response to treatment of detrusor instability in relation to psychoneurotic status. a total of 53 females who entered a double-blind crossover trial of oxybutynin and placebo for idiopathic detrusor instability were questioned about life events and associated medical disorders and were given a psychometric test. their response to treatment was studied in relation to these factors. it was found that 11% of patients had nocturnal enuresis beyond age 8 and 25% had irritable bowel syndrome: their response to treatment was generally poor. life events were not consistently related to treatment response. the mean psychoneurotic score of "poor responders" (43.7) was similar to that of female psychoneurotic out-patients (47.7), although one-third of poor responders were normal. patients who responded well to simple anticholinergic treatment had a mean score (30.7), which was similar to that of normal urban females (33.5). most good responders and one-third of poor responders showed little evidence of psychoneuroticism: a further search for neurophysiological abnormality in idiopathic detrusor instability is needed.
effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy. six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a malthus microbiological growth analyser. the mean (sd) volumes inoculated into sets in which one, two, or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 (10.1) ml, 37.4 (12.9) ml, and 37.7 (10.5) ml, respectively. overall, clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures, from two bottles only with 19 cultures, and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures. if the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100%, the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7% and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6%. the increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients, which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia. the isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is, however, particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested.
quantitative analysis of antibody localization in human metastatic colon cancer: a phase i study of monoclonal antibody a33. a33 is a mouse immunoglobulin g2a (igg2a) monoclonal antibody (mab) that detects a heat-stable, protease- and neuraminidase-resistant epitope. the antigen is homogeneously expressed by virtually all colon cancers and in the colon mucosa but not other epithelial tissues. the biodistribution and imaging characteristics of iodine-131 (131i)-maba33 were studied in colorectal carcinoma patients with hepatic metastases. antibody labeled with 2 to 5 mci of 131i was administered intravenously (iv) 7 to 8 days before surgery at five dose levels, ranging from 0.2 mg to 50 mg, with three or more patients entered at each dose level. in addition, three patients received 2 mg 131i-mabta99 (an isotype-matched control mab) together with 125i-maba33. evaluation included whole-body imaging with a gamma camera, technetium-99 (99mtc)-human serum albumin blood pool scans, liver/spleen scans, abdominal computed tomographic (ct) scans, hepatic arteriograms, antibody pharmacokinetics, and assessment of antibody distribution in biopsied malignant and normal tissues. selective maba33 localization to tumor tissue was demonstrated in 19 of 20 patients, and external imaging correlated with surgical inspection, pathologic examination, and tissue radioactivity. one week after antibody administration, tumor:liver ratios ranged from 6.9:1 to 100:1 and tumor:serum ratios from 4.1:1 to 25.2:1. 99mtc-albumin blood pool studies showed that liver metastases were hypovascular, emphasizing the selective localization of maba33 despite poor tumor-blood flow. control mabta99 studies showed maba33 localization was antigen-specific; tumor:liver ratios were 2.3- to 45-fold higher for specific antibody. in metastatic lesions, radioisotope was localized primarily in the viable periphery; however, even the necrotic tumor core concentrated specific antibody. external imaging showed isotope visualization in some patients' large bowel; whether this represents specific antibody uptake or gastric iodine secretion is unclear.
generalized pustular psoriasis in childhood. report of thirteen cases. generalized pustular psoriasis is rare in children. less than 100 cases have been reported. we describe 13 children with this type of psoriasis. seven had acute onset of widespread sterile pustules coalescing into lakes of pus with subsequent exfoliation (the zumbusch pattern). this usually occurred in infancy and was difficult to control; recurrences developed several times per year. three had the subacute benign annular pattern. they tended to be older and often had resolution within several years. three had a mixed pattern with zumbusch flares preceded by an annular or acral pattern. most patients had an eruption preceding the generalized pustular psoriasis and often had precipitating factors. generally, generalized pustular psoriasis has little serious chronic morbidity. the condition in most patients was well controlled with topical therapy. systemic steroids were not helpful.
endometriosis of the abdominal wall. endometriosis of the abdominal wall typically occurs as a painful mass in a lower abdominal incision from previous cesarean section or hysterectomy. most patients are young and in their active reproductive years. the histologic diagnosis requires a combination of either endometrial-like glands, endometrial stroma, or hemosiderin pigment. the diagnosis must be considered in any woman with an abdominal wall mass and a history of transabdominal gynecologic surgery. wide excision offers the best chance to prevent recurrence.
importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases. areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth. in extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved. the importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated. colonic anastomoses were performed in hooded-lister rats with and without omentectomy. animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour. with intraluminal injection, tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent (omental remnant). with intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent (in omental remnant) following omentectomy. in this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support 'seeded' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by, or be dependent on, the proximity of the omentum.
relationships of somatic symptoms to behavioral and emotional risk in young adolescents. junior high students (n = 1508) from a midwestern community completed a health behavioral questionnaire that asked the frequency of headache and abdominal pain and of a number of behavioral and emotional risk indicators. headache (24%) and abdominal pain (13%) were frequently reported among these young adolescents, particularly among girls. those reporting frequent somatic complaints also reported significantly more behavioral and emotional symptoms indicative of risk (p less than 0.001). further, the interaction between somatic complaint and gender significantly affected risk status (p less than 0.01). this interaction was greater with behavioral risk: boys with both abdominal pain and headaches reported higher behavioral risk than all other groups (p less than 0.0001). somatic symptoms continued to account for a significant amount of variance in behavioral risk after the effects of emotional risk and age were removed. this suggests that behavioral risk and emotional risk are independently associated with somatic complaints. the evaluation of persistent somatic complaints in adolescents, particularly in boys with abdominal symptoms, should include careful examination of emotional risk factors and other health-endangering behaviors such as substance use, early sexual activity, and delinquency.
igd immune complex vasculitis in a patient with hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever. we describe a 27-year-old dutch woman with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever syndrome. during febrile attacks she occasionally presented with skin lesions on the distal parts of her upper and lower extremities, with the histologic picture of a leukocytoclastic vasculitis. clear perivascular deposits of igd and c3 were presented in early lesional skin on immunofluorescence investigation. circulating igd immune complexes were demonstrated on several occasions, both during and in between clinical attacks. these findings are consistent with an igd immune complex-mediated pathogenesis for the skin lesions. in 10 patients with other forms of immune complex vasculitis of the skin, minimal perivascular deposits of igd were found in four cases. in these cases, however, igd was never found as the solitary immunoglobulin class.
cervical rotation flaps for midface resurfacing. the midface has long served as a focus for creativity in surgical reconstruction. full-thickness skin grafts, split-thickness grafts, and distal flaps have long been used to attempt to reduplicate existing anatomy in this area. recent reconstruction efforts have focused on the creative use of microvascular free flaps for this purpose. this article reports on the use of extensively developed regional rotation flaps as an excellent reconstructive modality for use in this area of the face. the details of surgical incisional planning are given. the nuances of surgical creation of these flaps and their rotation and suspension into place are given. the cases we have done using this technique for the past 3 years are reviewed. our present indications for use of these flaps and their limitations are given.
experimental intracerebral hemorrhage: early removal of a spontaneous mass lesion improves late outcome. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether early removal of an experimental intracerebral mass altered cerebral blood flow, brain water content, neuropathological findings, or neurological function 24 hours later. in three experimental series, a 50-microliter balloon was inflated within the right caudate nucleus in rats. at 24 hours after inflation, we studied cerebral blood flow by quantitative autoradiography, brain specific gravity, and qualitative histopathology by light microscopy. the animals were also assessed using a simple neurological deficit scale. in each series, half of the animals had the balloon inflated for 10 minutes (group 1), and half had the balloon inflated permanently (group 2). after transient inflation, there were surprisingly small differences in the blood flow between the two cerebral hemispheres at 24 hours. by contrast, in animals with permanent inflation, several indices of blood flow were significantly worse in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the balloon: the mean and median blood flow levels in the caudate nucleus; the mean blood flow in the cerebral cortex; and the area of cortex with ischemic levels of blood flow. the specific gravity was reduced in areas surrounding the site of balloon insertion after either transient or permanent inflation, and there was evidence of ischemic cell damage in all animals studied. these changes were more severe after permanent inflation, but the differences were not significant. neurological outcome was significantly better after transient as compared with permanent inflation. the present findings contradict previous results and suggest that early removal of an intracerebral mass may have subsequent benefits.
coronary blood flow in dogs with contractile dysfunction due to experimental volume overload. background. abnormalities in coronary blood flow are responsible for stress-induced reductions in contractile function in pressure overload hypertrophy. less is known about coronary blood flow in volume overload. in this study, we tested the hypothesis that coronary blood flow abnormalities were responsible for contractile abnormalities in experimental volume overload hypertrophy. methods and results. we examined coronary blood flow at rest and during pacing in seven dogs with contractile dysfunction secondary to chronic experimental mitral regurgitation (average regurgitant fraction at 3 months, 0.58 +/- 0.05). after 3 months of mitral regurgitation, left ventricular mass had increased from 92 +/- 8 g at baseline to 118 +/- 10 g (p less than 0.002). the slope of the end-ejection stress-volume relation, one of our indexes used to estimate contractile function, had fallen from 5.4 +/- 0.3 at baseline to 3.0 +/- 0.3 at 3 months of mitral regurgitation (p less than 0.001). in the mitral regurgitation dogs, coronary blood flow at rest was similar to that of control dogs (endocardial blood flow: control dogs, 1.33 +/- 0.12 ml/min/g; mitral regurgitation dogs, 1.16 ml/min/g, p = ns; epicardial blood flow at rest: control dogs, 1.30 +/- 0.16 ml/min/g; mitral regurgitation dogs 1.13 +/- 0.2 ml/min/g, p = ns). with pacing-induced stress, coronary blood flow increased appropriately in control and mitral regurgitation dogs. ultrasonic dimension gauges placed in the endocardium and epicardium demonstrated no further deterioration in ventricular function during pacing in the mitral regurgitation dogs. in a separate group of five control dogs and five dogs with mitral regurgitation and left ventricular dysfunction, coronary blood flow was examined in the conscious closed-chest state at rest, during adenosine infusion, and during rapid atrial pacing (240 beats/min). blood flow increased similarly in both groups during pacing and adenosine infusion. conclusions. we conclude that in dogs with mitral regurgitation that have developed contractile dysfunction, abnormalities in coronary blood flow do not explain the resting contractile dysfunction. furthermore, studies during pacing-induced stress and coronary vasodilation with adenosine demonstrate that substantial coronary blood flow reserve is present in this type of volume overload hypertrophy.
management of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities. the management of soft tissue sarcomas has undergone and continues to undergo important changes. the purpose of this report is to review the presentation, diagnosis, and natural history of soft tissue sarcomas. in so doing, the importance of a careful and rigorous method of evaluation will be emphasized. furthermore, the results of multidisciplinary treatment, with a goal towards limb salvage, will be reviewed. with appropriate and timely intervention, selected patients with pulmonary metastases may still experience long-term survival. throughout this review, the importance of early and continuing multidisciplinary treatment and evaluation will be emphasized.
comparison of the antihypertensive efficiency of nitrendipine, metoprolol, mepindolol and enalapril using ambulatory 24-hour blood pressure monitoring. in a randomized 6-month study of 201 patients, the antihypertensive efficiency of the calcium antagonist nitrendipine, the beta 1-selective blocker metoprolol, mepindolol, the beta blocker with intrinsic activity and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril were compared as monitored by 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (bp) measurements. the study was designed so that a comparable decrease in casual bp values was obtained with all 4 drugs. if normotension was not achieved with monotherapy, a diuretic also was administered. pretreatment casual bp and mean 24-hour ambulatory bp values did not differ between the 4 groups. normotension as assessed by casual bp measurements was observed in all 4 groups after 6 months of therapy, there being no significant differences between the groups. however, significantly more diuretics were required in the mepindolol (n = 14) and in the enalapril (n = 20) groups compared to the nitrendipine (n = 5) and metoprolol (n = 7) groups. despite comparable casual bp control, the 4 groups differed significantly in their mean 24-hour measurements. the greatest systolic and diastolic bp decreases were seen in the metoprolol group. metoprolol was also the most effective drug in decreasing the frequency of systolic pressure peaks greater than 180 mm hg. both beta blockers and enalapril significantly decreased the morning bp increase compared to the values before treatment, while nitrendipine did not. these data show that casual bp measurement is not a good predictor of 24-hour bp in patients taking hypertensive therapy. despite an equal degree of "office" bp control, different antihypertensive regimens do not confer the same degree of "nonoffice" bp control.
non-ossicle homograft bone prostheses in the middle ear. this thesis proposes the use of human cadaver non-ossicle temporal homograft bone as middle ear reconstructive material. bone obtained from the otic capsule histologically resembles that of the ossicles more so than any other bone in the body. the otic capsule, due to its proximity to the middle ear, can be harvested with the middle ear structures when bone cores are obtained, making it easily accessible. these prostheses are cost effective because multiple prostheses can be sculptured from one temporal bone core. this paper further proposes the use and introduction of non-ossicle homografts in primary stapedectomy, as well as in selected cases to bypass the incus and the superstructure of the stapes. audiological data is provided. some of the grafts have been in the middle ear for up to 5 years. there have been no extrusions and no complications. the method of harvesting, preservation, and sterilization is presented, as well as a pictorial illustration of the finished product and its relation to the natural ossicles. one histological specimen is presented. on the basis of the audiologic results, as well as the fact that no ossicles have extruded and none have been resorbed, it is proposed that non-ossicle temporal bone homografts have a place in transplantation surgery.
a prospective randomized comparison of protracted infusional 5-fluorouracil with or without weekly bolus cisplatin in metastatic colorectal carcinoma. a mid-atlantic oncology program study. one hundred eighty-four patients with advanced measurable colorectal cancer not previously treated with chemotherapy were entered into a prospective randomized clinical trial by the mid-atlantic oncology program (maop) to assess the value of weekly cisplatin (20 mg/m2) when added to a protracted schedule of 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) infusion (pif) at 300 mg/m2/d for 10 weeks of every 12 weeks. the liver was the primary indicator lesion in approximately 75% of the study group. all tumor measurements required radiographic confirmation. the response rate in the pif alone arm was 35% (29 of 83; 95% confidence interval [ci], 25% to 46%) compared with 33% (28 of 85; 95% ci, 23% to 44%) for the arm in which weekly cisplatin was added to pif. the median survival times were 11.8 and 11.2 months in the two groups. weekly cisplatin does not appear to add to the effectiveness of pif in colorectal carcinoma.
streptococcal antibody cross-reactivity with hla-dr4+ve b-lymphocytes. basis of the dr4 associated genetic predisposition to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease? [published erratum appears in br j rheumatol 1991 jun;30(3):222] b-lymphocytes obtained from patients with either rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease and from normal subjects were reacted with serum obtained from rabbits immunized with streptococcal cell wall antigen. the presence of cytotoxicity was sought using an inverted phase microscope after differential uptake of eosin dye. the serum was found to be significantly more cytotoxic to hla-dr4 containing cells of both patients and normals compared with dr4 negative cells (p less than 0.0001).
deep femoral lymphadenectomy with preservation of the fascia lata. preliminary report on 42 invasive vulvar carcinomas. forty-two patients with primary invasive vulvar carcinoma were treated with radical vulvectomy and deep femoral lymphadenectomy with preservation of the fascia lata and cribriform fascia. the rationale for using this technique was based on anatomic knowledge of the topographic distribution of groin lymph nodes, which was confirmed by the study of 50 cadavers. the preliminary data show that the number of superficial and deep femoral lymph nodes removed from the 42 patients (mean number of nodes, 20; range, 8-32) was similar to the number reported in anatomy books. in addition, the five-year actuarial survival rate, 70%, was comparable to that in the literature. these preliminary results suggest that the surgical technique used in this study is as radical an oncologic procedure as way's classic groin lymphadenectomy, which consists of removing the fascia lata and cribriform fascia.
monosomy 22 in rhabdoid or atypical tumors of the brain. cytogenetic studies of three rare childhood brain tumors were performed. two children presented with pure rhabdoid tumors. the third child had a tumor composed of a mixture of rhabdoid elements with neuroepithelial, epithelial, and mesenchymal tissue - an atypical teratoid tumor. all three tumors demonstrated monosomy 22 as the only cytogenetic abnormality. the cytogenetic findings suggest that loss of a gene or genes on chromosome 22 may be involved in the initiation or progression of these malignant tumors. further studies on additional fresh tumor specimens are warranted; however, it is possible that cytogenetic studies may be used as an additional means of diagnosing rhabdoid or atypical teratoid tumors of the brain.
profiles of opioid analgesia in humans after intravenous bolus administration: alfentanil, fentanyl and morphine compared on experimental pain. this report examines the relationship of plasma drug concentration to analgesic effect following bolus doses of alfentanil, fentanyl and morphine and assesses individual differences in analgesic response among volunteers. we predicted that the 3 opioids would yield disparate analgesic profiles because their physicochemical and pharmacokinetic characteristics differ. ten healthy volunteers received intravenous bolus doses of either alfentanil, fentanyl, morphine or normal saline on different days. we stimulated their teeth electrically and measured brain evoked potential (ep) and pain report (pr) repeatedly over 2 h to assess analgesic effect. concurrently, we drew 18 blood samples to assess opioid plasma concentrations during the test period. the relationship between opioid plasma concentration and analgesic effect was well defined for alfentanil but ambiguous for morphine. fentanyl exhibited a marked hysteresis. we observed noteworthy individual differences in analgesic response with all 3 drugs but these differences were greatest for morphine and least for alfentanil. inter- and intrasubject variability in analgesic response across drugs is related to the physicochemical properties of the drugs tested.
high hemoglobin a2 beta 0-thalassemia due to a 532-basepair deletion of the 5' beta-globin gene region. we identify and characterize a novel beta 0-thalassemia mutation that is associated with an unusually high level of hemoglobin (hb) a2 in the heterozygote. this newly discovered mutation is caused by a 532-basepair deletion that extends from positions -454 to + 78 relative to the mrna cap site of the beta-globin gene. the propositi are 9-month-old fraternal twins. one of the twins is a compound heterozygote for the deletion and hb s, the other is a compound heterozygote for the deletion and hb c.
characterization of ly233569 on 5-lipoxygenase and reperfusion injury of ischemic myocardium. ly233569 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of isolated guinea pig 5-lipoxygenase (5-lpo) and 5-lpo activity of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes in vitro; ic50 values were 0.4 and 0.1 microm, respectively. ly233569 also inhibited (ic50 approximately 1.8 microm) zymosan-stimulated production of leukotriene b4 in canine whole blood but had little or no concomitant effect on the production of thromboxane b2. concentrations of ly233569 as high as 10 microm did not inhibit production or scavenge superoxide from activated human neutrophils. in normal anesthetized dogs, infusion of ly233569 (0.11 mg/kg/min, i.v.) for 6 hr produced persistent inhibition (approximately 80%) of leukotriene b4 production in blood challenged ex vivo with zymosan; the plasma concentration (approximately 4 microm) of ly233569 was consistent with in vitro data illustrating selective and maximal inhibition of 5-lpo. in subsequent experiments, myocardial infarct size was measured after 1 hr of occlusion of the circumflex coronary artery and 5 hr of reperfusion. continuous infusion of ly233569 (0.11 mg/kg/min, i.v.) had little or no effect on base-line systolic arterial pressure, cardiac rate and the pressure rate product when compared with time-related changes observed in control dogs. ly233569 infusion also did not alter the degree of st-segment deviation or the intensity and duration of cardiac arrhythmias associated with coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion. resultant myocardial infarct sizes were 45 +/- 5% of the left ventricle placed at risk in control dogs and 43 +/- 4% in dogs given ly233569. myeloperoxidase activity of infarcted myocardium did not differ between groups.
characterization of an interleukin-6-mediated autocrine growth loop in the human multiple myeloma cell line, u266. it has been reported recently that freshly isolated human myeloma cell cultures proliferate in response to added interleukin-6 (il-6). endogenous levels of il-6 found in the same cultures suggested that an autocrine growth loop may contribute to cell growth. however, the lack of homogenous cell populations in primary myeloma cultures has made it difficult to distinguish between paracrine and autocrine growth mechanisms. to precisely address the autocrine growth issue we have evaluated the growth of the human myeloma cell line, u266. we have found that a neutralizing anti-il-6 monoclonal antibody can inhibit u266 proliferation. furthermore, the addition of il-6 antisense oligonucleotides also inhibits u266 proliferation. these effects are reversed by adding il-6, suggesting the presence of an autocrine loop. using bioassays with two different il-6-dependent cell lines, we were able to detect il-6 in concentrated u266 supernatants. il-6 mrna was detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification of cdna. cell cycle parameter analysis shows that il-6 acts to release a block in g1. taken together these results present conclusive evidence for il-6-mediated autocrine growth in the u266 human myeloma cell line.
the effects of indomethacin and a beta-sympathomimetic agent on the fetal ductus arteriosus during treatment of premature labor: a randomized double-blind study. to study the effect of maternal indomethacin or nylidrine hydrochloride treatment on the fetus ductus arteriosus and the pulmonary artery, 27 women with threatened preterm labor between 24 and 34 weeks' gestation were studied by echocardiography. fourteen women were treated with indomethacin and 13 with nylidrin. both systolic and diastolic velocities in the ductus increased after administration of indomethacin indicating constriction in nine fetuses, and exceeded the corresponding velocities in the fetuses of the nylidrin group (p = 0.001). however, there were no changes in pulmonary artery flow velocities (p greater than 0.5). in the indomethacin group, there was a significant linear positive relationship between the gestational age and the change in ductal flow velocity. three of the nine patients with ductal constriction also had tricuspid regurgitation. these findings indicate that indomethacin, not nylidrin, causes transient constriction of the ductus arteriosus and the constrictive response increases with the gestational age. we recommend echocardiographic surveillance of fetal hemodynamics when prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors are used in the treatment of spontaneous preterm labor.
psychosocial adjustment in women with breast cancer. there is a plethora of studies investigating psychosocial adjustment in women with breast cancer, its correlates, clinical course, and prognosis. these studies have been conducted with varying degrees of methodologic rigor. an assessment has been made of the quality of this existing evidence to identify from the best evidence the factors which predict the adjustment status of women with breast cancer. studies have been reviewed, using methodologic standards for the critical appraisal of studies on prognosis, developed by sackett and colleagues in the department of clinical epidemiology and biostatistics at mcmaster university (hamilton, ontario, canada). few of the studies investigating psychosocial adjustment of women with breast cancer meet all of the criteria for reviewing studies of clinical course and prognosis. this review focuses the direction and methodologic rigor required in future investigations. in particular, studies are needed that employ prospective designs and that deliberately measure or control for the extraneous prognostic variables that may affect adjustment. future investigations need to incorporate adequate precision in measurement so that measures of the psychosocial variables are objective, reliable, and valid.
impact of anatomical radical prostatectomy on urinary continence. urinary continence following an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy was evaluated in 593 consecutive patients, 547 (92%) of whom achieved complete urinary control. stress incontinence was present in 46 patients (8%), of whom 34 (6%) wore 1 or fewer pads per day and 2 (0.3%) required placement of an artificial sphincter. no patient was totally incontinent. age, weight of the prostate, prior transurethral resection of the prostate, pathological stage and preservation or wide excision of the neurovascular bundles had no significant influence on preservation of urinary control. these data suggest that anatomical factors rather than preservation of autonomic innervation may be responsible for the improved urinary control associated with an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy.
surgical correction of the snapping iliopsoas tendon. eighteen patients with 20 symptomatic hips underwent lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon for persistent painful snapping of this "internal" variety of snapping hip. we referred to the pathologic, painful snapping of the iliopsoas in the deep anterior groin as the "internal" snapping hip. this is in contrast to the more common and better-known "external" snapping that involves the greater trochanter and its overlying soft tissues. the results of our iliopsoas lengthening procedure are presented here. lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon was accomplished by step cutting of the tendinous portion of the iliopsoas. the pathoanatomy of this poorly understood symptom complex was described in 1984 paper from this institution and is reviewed here. iliopsoas bursography demonstrated a sudden jerking movement of the iliopsoas tendon between the anterior inferior iliac spine and iliopectineal eminence, synchronous with the patient's pain and often accompanied by an audible snap. the average preoperative duration of symptoms was 2.9 years, and the average length of postoperative followup was 25 months. all patients, except one, had a marked reduction in the frequency of snapping after tendon lengthening, and 14 of 20 hips had no snapping postoperatively. of the six patients who had recurrence of snapping, all but one stated that this occurred much less frequently and was much less painful compared to the preoperative state. two hips required reoperation. postoperatively, only three patients complained of subjective weakness, and most patients were unlimited in physical activity with return to activities such as competitive football, pole vaulting, and long-distance running.
vasculitis as a paraneoplastic syndrome. report of 11 cases and review of the literature. in a study of 222 patients with vasculitis, we identified 11 who had an associated neoplasia. seven had hematological neoplasia and 4 had solid malignant tumors. in 4 patients vasculitis gave the first evidence of the neoplasia or of its recurrence. nine of our patients had cutaneous vasculitis. the other 2 had vasculitis involving the intestine and resulted in acute abdomens. these 2 patients needed prednisone treatment for the vasculitis. neoplasia should be considered in patients with vasculitis without an apparent cause.
multiple primary bronchogenic carcinomas: treatment and follow-up. a second primary bronchogenic carcinoma subsequently developed 8 to 156 months later in 19 patients who underwent curative resection of primary bronchogenic carcinomas. the second primary tumor was treated by surgical resection in 9 patients, 3 patients' tumors were considered unresectable, and the remaining 7 patients, despite having potentially resectable tumors, did not undergo resection because of insufficient pulmonary reserve or unwillingness to undergo resection. actuarial life-table analysis of survival for the 9 patients who underwent resection showed a median survival time of 110.3 months compared with 19 months for the group with unresected but resectable tumors and 10.5 months for the group with unresectable tumors. there was no operative mortality in the group with resected tumors. we conclude that in patients in whom a second primary carcinoma of the lung develops, surgical resection prolongs survival and can be performed with a low operative mortality.
reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta. since crawford's report in 1973, repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin. growing evidence, however, indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages. with this in mind, we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988. the operated patients in our series all survived. fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt, none of whom developed paraplegia. the remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 (34.6%) developed paraplegia or paraparesis (p less than 0.02). paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time (p less than 0.002). it did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes, but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes. these data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection.
multipolar electrocoagulation versus injection therapy in the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers. a prospective, randomized trial. this study prospectively compares multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy in high-risk patients with bleeding ulcers. patients were considered for entry if they had a bloody nasogastric aspirate, melena, or hematochezia and unstable vital signs, transfusion of greater than or equal to 2 u of blood in 12 hours, or a decrease in hematocrit of greater than or equal to 6% in 12 hours. sixty patients with endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding (n = 26) or a nonbleeding visible vessel (n = 34) were randomly assigned to receive multipolar electrocoagulation or injection with absolute ethanol. hemostasis was achieved in 14 of 14 actively bleeding patients with multipolar electrocoagulation vs. 10 of 12 (83%) treated with injection. no significant differences were observed between electrocoagulation and injection therapy in any parameter assessed during the hospitalization: incidence of further bleeding (6% vs. 10%), units of blood transfused after treatment (1.8 +/- 0.6 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.4), incidence of surgery for bleeding (6% vs. 7%), length of hospital stay in days (5.8 +/- 0.9 vs. 7.2 +/- 2.5), cost of hospitalization (+7160 +/- +1630 vs. +8520 +/- +2960), or mortality rate (3% vs. 3%). treatment induced bleeding in nonbleeding visible vessels in 35% of subjects in each group, but this was controlled with continued treatment in all patients. one delayed perforation occurred 9 days after multipolar electrocoagulation. multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy are of comparable efficacy in the treatment of patients with clinical evidence of a major upper gastrointestinal bleed and endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding or a nonbleeding visible vessel.
rebleeding from intracranial dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery. we describe two patients with rebleeding from intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms during the acute stage. one patient had excellent results after emergency surgery. a review of recent reports including 60 patients with this disorder revealed a rebleeding rate of 30%, mostly during the acute stage. this suggests that a ruptured dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery is at risk for rebleeding during the acute stage, similar to a saccular aneurysm in the same location.
failure of long-term digitalization to prevent rapid ventricular response in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. digitalis is frequently prescribed to patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to reduce the ventricular rate during subsequent paroxysms. to verify the validity of this assumption, we determined the ventricular rate during paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in 13 patients receiving long-term digoxin therapy (mean plasma digoxin level + 1.28 +/- 0.4 ng/ml) and compared it with that of a group of 14 patients who had not taken digoxin or beta-adrenergic and calcium-blocking agents before the attack. the treated and the untreated groups were similar statistically. the mean ventricular rate of the digitalized patients was 121 +/- 15 beats per minute, while that of the patients in the control group was 118 +/- 16 beats per minute. it is concluded that long-term digoxin therapy is not effective in reducing the ventricular response in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation despite adequate therapeutic levels.
a controlled clinical comparison of 6 and 8 months of antituberculosis chemotherapy in the treatment of patients with silicotuberculosis in hong kong. hong kong chest service/tuberculosis research centre, madras/british medical research council. patients with silicotuberculosis have been reported to respond poorly to antituberculosis chemotherapy. therefore, in a study in hong kong, 240 chinese male patients with both silicosis and pulmonary tuberculosis were all prescribed treatment three times weekly with streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide, allocated at random to be given for a total duration of either 6 (m6 regimen) or 8 months (m8 regimen) in a concurrent comparison. those with a history of previous antituberculosis chemotherapy received ethambutol as well for the first 3 months. the intake in the m6 regimen was terminated when preliminary results showed that it was inadequate, and a further 53 patients were assigned to the m8 series. of 91 assessable patients in the concurrent comparison with susceptible strains pretreatment, 44% were culture negative at 1 month, 80% at 2 months, and 98% at 3 months, and 1 had an unfavorable bacteriologic response during chemotherapy. during 3 yr of assessment, bacteriologic relapse after chemotherapy occurred in 22% of the m6 compared with 7% of the m8 patients (p less than 0.025, log-rank test). inadequate chemotherapy was received by 12% of the 240 patients in the concurrent comparison because of default and by 22% because of adverse effects, but by 3 yr 92% of patients with susceptible strains pretreatment in each series had a favorable status following retreatment for relapse or for initially inadequate chemotherapy when required. the results show that patients with silicosis require at least 8 months of treatment.
posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation in eyes with inactive and active proliferative diabetic retinopathy. we reviewed the records of 2,100 consecutive eyes that had undergone extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation between january 1981 and december 1989. of these eyes, 21 had inactive and four had active proliferative diabetic retinopathy at the time of cataract extraction. twenty-one eyes with inactive proliferative diabetic retinopathy received extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation, and four eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy had both extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and pars plana vitrectomy with endophotocoagulation. the mean follow-up period was 27 months. final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 12 of 25 eyes (48%). of 25 eyes, five (20%) showed progression of the retinopathy after the operation, and two (8%) developed macular edema. extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation was well tolerated in most eyes.
a case-control study of risk factors for intraoperative suprachoroidal expulsive hemorrhage. the authors performed a case-control study of risk factors for suprachoroidal expulsive hemorrhage (seh); the study involved 68 seh cases at their institution from 1981 to 1986. the authors examined 113 variables in the study group and a procedure-matched control group of 217 patients randomly selected from the 35,459 patients who underwent intraocular surgery during this period, and subjected them to bivariate and conditional logistic regression analysis. the incidence of seh was 0.19% overall, 0.16% for lens-related procedures, 0.15% for glaucoma surgery, 0.41% for retinal and vitreous procedures, and 0.56% for keratoplasty. statistically significant risk factors for seh in age-adjusted bivariate analyses included: glaucoma (p less than 0.0001), increased axial length (p less than 0.0001), elevated intraocular pressure (iop) (p less than 0.0001), generalized atherosclerosis (p = 0.007), and elevated intraoperative pulse (p = 0.0001). conditional logistic regression analysis with frequency matching on age identified significant independent risks associated with a history of glaucoma, elevated iop, increased axial length, and intraoperative tachycardia. one of the models predicts a 752-fold increased theoretical relative risk of seh for a patient with axial length greater than or equal to 25.8 mm, a history of glaucoma, preoperative iop greater than 18 mmhg, and intraoperative pulse greater than or equal to 85 beats per minute. the visual outcome after seh was best in cases of extracapsular cataract extraction (ecce), compared with other procedures. results suggest that attention to multiple preoperative and intraoperative ocular and systemic variables may allow identification and prophylaxis of patients at risk for seh.
compensation and overcompensation in congestive heart failure. the compensatory mechanisms that develop in response to heart failure have been well defined. in this review, it is argued that each compensatory mechanism leads to overcompensation and that there is no way to distinguish between the beneficial aspects of the former and the harmful effects of the latter. therapeutic agents that maintain rather than decrease blood pressure might perhaps be more beneficial because of the crucial role of hypotension in initiating both compensation and overcompensation.
effect of suramin on human prostate cancer cells in vitro. suramin, a polyanionic compound with known antiparasitic activity, has been shown to be adrenocorticolytic in primates and to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of patients with metastatic prostate cancer refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation. to better characterize the activity of suramin on prostate cancer biology, we studied the effect of the drug on plasma adrenal androgens of patients and on the human prostate adenocarcinoma cell lines pc-3, du 145 and lncap-fgc. five cancer patients treated with suramin had an approximate 40% decline in circulating androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels. the drug inhibited the colony formation in two of the three cell lines at concentrations clinically achievable in humans without excessive drug-related toxicity. the presence of suramin 300 micrograms./ml. partially inhibited the growth stimulatory effect of testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor, but not that of epidermal growth factor. the cellular concentration of suramin following exposure to a single dose increases linearly over time in each of the cell lines with lncap-fgc accumulating the highest levels of the drug; cellular levels of suramin, not androgen or growth factor sensitivity, correlated with the sensitivity to the drug. the concentrations of prostatic acid phosphatase and prostatic specific antigen released by lncap-fgc cells in cell culture medium declined in the presence of increasing levels of suramin in a manner which exceeded the decrease in cell number. we conclude that suramin, aside from decreasing circulating androgens through its adrenocorticolytic effect, is also capable exerting a direct inhibitory effect on cell proliferation of prostate cancer cells, and interfere at a cellular level with the growth stimulatory effects of exogenous testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor.
clinical significance of cholelithiasis in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. there is general agreement that the prevalence of gallstones in cirrhotics is high (at least twice that in the general population), but the pathogenetic link between cirrhosis and cholelithiasis is still uncertain. the influence of cholelithiasis on survival in cirrhotics is also unknown. during an 8-year period, we observed 90 patients affected by decompensated cirrhosis: 36 of them (40%) turned out by cholecystographic/cholangiographic or ultrasonographic examination to have cholelithiasis. we were not able to demonstrate any correlation between cholelithiasis and sex, age of patients, etiology of cirrhosis, severity of the illness, degree of portal hypertension, previous gastrointestinal bleeding, number of pregnancies, or levels of serum cholesterol, bilirubin, and triglycerides. during the follow-up observation, (range, 1-91 months), 30 patients died. survival curves analyzed by the log-rank test did not show any difference between patients with or without gallstones. we therefore confirm that cirrhosis is a lithogenic condition, but we were not able to explain the reasons for the close relationship between cholelithiasis and cirrhosis. gallstones, however, did not affect the survival of these patients.
health perceptions and survival: do global evaluations of health status really predict mortality? self-evaluations of health status have been shown to predict mortality, above and beyond the contribution to prediction made by indices based on the presence of health problems, physical disability, and biological or life-style risk factors. several possible reasons for this association are discussed: (a) methodological shortcomings of previous studies render the association spurious; (b) other psychosocial influences on mortality are involved and explain the association; and (c) self-evaluations of health status have a direct and independent effect of their own. four-year follow-up mortality data from the yale health and aging project (n = 2812) are used to explore these possibilities. the analysis controls for the contribution of numerous indicators of health problems, disability and risk factors, and also makes adjustments of standard errors for the complex sample design. the findings favor the third possibility, an independent effect, to the extent that the particular set of psychosocial factors examined did not explain the basic association, and to the extent that the control variables were an adequately comprehensive set.
susceptibility to thyroid autoimmune disease: molecular analysis of hla-d region genes identifies new markers for goitrous hashimoto's thyroiditis. hashimoto's thyroiditis has been shown to be associated with the hla-specificities dr4 and dr5. since former association studies yielded variable results, we used novel molecular typing methods to assess predisposing immunogenetic factors. gene analysis of the hla-dr-dq and tumor necrosis factor region was performed in a group of hashimoto's thyroiditis patients and randomly chosen controls using standards and nomenclature of the 10th international histocompatibility workshop. genomic dna of patients and controls was analyzed using a cdna probe of the dqb1 gene. the resulting restriction fragment patterns allowed the determination of newly defined dqw-types 1-9. we find the strongest relative risk conferred by dqw7 (rr = 4.7), that is observed in 36 of 64 patients (56%) and only 21 of 98 controls (21%) (p corr less than 0.002). comparison of dna sequence variation in the dqb1 gene, that is found predominantly in hashimoto's thyroiditis patients, indicates that codons 45 and 57 are critical features in dqw7 which distinguish it from other dqw specificities. the adjacent dqa1 genes also display a significant association with hashimoto's thyroiditis (dqa1*0201/*0301 heterozygotes were found in 37% of patients and 15% controls, p less than 0.03). no significant association could be found with polymorphisms of the tumor necrosis factor gene. these results provide a new basis for the concept of genetic susceptibility in hashimoto's thyroiditis and will help to elucidate the underlying autoimmune mechanisms that lead to disease at the functional level.
reoperation for persistent outflow obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. this study compares results of a second left ventricular myotomy and myectomy (m + m) with those of mitral valve replacement (mvr) as reoperative procedures for persistent left ventricular outflow obstruction after m + m in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. comparison of the second m + m group (n = 12) with the mvr group (n = 11) disclosed significant difference (p less than 0.05) in mean age at the initial operation (29 +/- 11 years versus 40 +/- 8 years), interval between operations (46 +/- 57 months versus 18 +/- 13 months), and age at reoperation (33 +/- 10 years versus 42 +/- 8 years); and insignificant differences in mean preoperative functional class, cardiac index, left ventricular outflow gradients at rest or with provocation, and hospital mortality at reoperation (2/12 versus 1/11). at 6 months after reoperation, comparison of results of a second m + m with mvr showed that mean functional class, cardiac index, and left ventricular outflow gradient at rest were similarly improved, but the outflow gradient with provocation was significantly higher in the second m + m group (57 +/- 44 mm hg versus 14 +/- 9 mm hg, p less than 0.05). total follow-up was 108 patient-years (100% complete) with an average of 5.9 years per patient in the second m + m group and 3.4 years per patient in the mvr group. actuarial survival, including hospital mortality, at 3 and 5 years was 83% and 76%, respectively, after the second m + m, which was similar to 92% and 77% after mvr.
shunt nephritis. case report. the incidence of shunt nephritis has decreased over the past several years due to the increased use of ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunts rather than the ventriculovascular systems for which this complication was originally reported in 1965. despite this trend, the syndrome has been reported in cases of vp shunting and, for this reason, merit a renewed look. shunt nephritis is thought to be secondary to immune complex formation and deposition in the kidney in response to staphylococcus epidermidis. the diagnostic workup and management of this disease is discussed.
juvenile (embryonal and alveolar) rhabdomyosarcoma of the head and neck in adults. a clinical, pathologic, and immunohistochemical study of 12 cases. sites in the head and neck region (orbit, nasopharynx, nasal cavity, etc.) are among the most frequent locations for juvenile (embryonal and alveolar) rhabdomyosarcomas in patients younger than 15 years; however, comparable neoplasms in adults are very uncommon. a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 12 juvenile rhabdomyosarcomas in patients between the ages of 18 and 36 years is presented. there was a female:male ratio of 2:1. the orbit with or without contiguous paranasal sinus involvement, nasal cavity, sphenoid sinus, middle ear, and soft tissues of the neck and preauricular region were the primary sites. seven tumors involved a parameningeal site and eight cases were alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas which together contributed to the adverse outcome. only two patients were long-term, disease-free survivors. six patients have died of tumor and two others are alive with persistent disease. immunohistochemical study in 11 cases demonstrated reactivity for vimentin and muscle-specific actin (hhf-35) and desmin in ten cases. juvenile rhabdomyosarcoma rarely presents in the head and neck of adults but should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a small cell neoplasm in patients during the third and fourth decades of life.
deformities of the hip in adults who have sickle-cell disease and had avascular necrosis in childhood. a natural history of fifty-two patients. we report the natural course of the hip in fifty-two patients (ninety-five hips) who had sickle-cell disease and had had avascular necrosis in childhood. there were twenty-one african, twenty-one west indian, and ten mediterranean patients. at the most recent follow-up examination (at an average duration of nineteen years after the onset of the disease), 80 per cent of the hips that had been affected by avascular necrosis during childhood were painful and had permanent damage with regard to decreased mobility, limb-length discrepancy, and an abnormal gait. when the patients were evaluated, at an average age of thirty-one years, fifteen hips (16 per cent) had had an operation for progressive disability and sixty (63 per cent) had major problems because of pain. of the twenty hips (21 per cent) that were not painful, five were in patients who had an abnormal gait, with decreased agility. the mean iowa hip-rating score at the most recent follow-up examination was 73 points (range, 30 to 100 points). correlations were found between the hip score and the patient's age at the onset of the disease and at the latest follow-up, between the hip score and degenerative changes in the hip, and between degenerative changes and radiographic evidence of deformity of the hip.
buffered versus plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple laceration repair. study objective: buffered lidocaine was compared with plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple lacerations. design: randomized, double-blind, prospective clinical trial. setting: urban emergency department. type of participants: ninety-one adult patients with simple linear lacerations were enrolled. patients with allergy to lidocaine and patients with an abnormal mental status were excluded. interventions: each wound edge was anesthetized with either plain or buffered lidocaine using a randomized, double-blind protocol. the pain of infiltration was measured with a previously validated visual analog pain scale. measurements and main results: analysis of pooled data and paired data (using patients as their own controls) revealed that infiltrating buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than plain lidocaine (p = .03 and p = .02, respectively). there was no significant difference in the anesthetic effectiveness of the two agents during suturing. conclusion: buffered lidocaine is preferable to plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic agent for the repair of simple lacerations.
a manifesting carrier of duchenne muscular dystrophy with severe myocardial symptoms. a 42-year-old so-called manifesting carrier of duchenne muscular dystrophy (dmd), whose first complaints were severe myocardial symptoms, is described. immunohistochemical study using anti-dystrophin anti-serum and analysis of cloned segments of x chromosome dna were performed. her two sons and one of her brothers appear to have had the same disease. she was admitted to the hospital complaining of dyspnoea, back pain and palpitations and was first diagnosed as having myocardial infarction. however, this diagnosis was excluded. the echocardiogram showed diffuse abnormalities of myocardial function. serum enzymes were increased. minimal weakness and decreased deep tendon reflexes were detected in her left lower extremity. muscle biopsy revealed a small number of necrotic fibres. immunohistochemical study using anti-dystrophin antiserum showed a mosaic pattern of the surface membrane. analysis of cloned segments of x chromosome dna from the patient and her son showed the xmni(asp) alleles of pert 87-15 and the taqi alleles of pert 87-8 in both patients.
arterial switch procedure in an adult. the arterial switch procedure has been shown to offer both anatomic and physiologic correction in infants and children with transposition of the great arteries and ventricular septal defect. we believe that adults may also benefit in some circumstances, as evidenced by the case of a 22-year-old man who underwent successful operation after having initially undergone pulmonary artery banding for transposition with ventricular septal defect in 1967 when he was 5 months of age.
redevelopment of hepatitis b surface antigen after renal transplantation. a patient with chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) and chronic renal failure received a renal transplantation. hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) disappeared, and antibodies to hbsag appeared 10 months before transplantation. liver tests showed no abnormality at transplantation. six months later, chronic hepatitis reactivated, antibodies to hbsag disappeared, and hbsag reappeared. hepatitis b virus dna was demonstrated with polymerase chain reaction in the serum collected before transplantation. this observation suggests that low level hbv replication was present before transplantation despite the absence of detectable hbsag and was reactivated under immunosuppressive therapy after transplantation.
the value of radioimmunoguided surgery in first and second look laparotomy for colorectal cancer. radioimmunoguided surgery (rigs) using an anti-cea (a5b7) monoclonal antibody has been assessed in 52 patients (43 primary excisions and nine second look procedures) undergoing surgery for colorectal carcinoma. the antibody localized in 97.8 percent of primary tumours and in 88.8 percent of the principal tumor in second look procedures. additional information concerning the extent of primary tumor was obtained in 11 of 43 patients (25.5 percent) undergoing excision of primary carcinoma and five of nine patients (55 percent) in the second look series. incorrect information was obtained about the extent of the primary tumour in six patients (11.3 percent), whereas no incorrect information was obtained during second look procedures. rigs correctly predicted the subsequent dukes' staging in 77 percent of first look cases (sensitivity 65 percent, specificity 90 percent), although accurate identification of individual nodes was impossible. the technique influenced the surgical procedure performed in 2 of 43 cases (4.6 percent) in primary surgery and in three of nine patients undergoing second look laparotomy (33 percent). rigs in primary colorectal carcinoma may provide additional information concerning extent of locally advanced tumors in particular and the principle that the subsequent surgery may be influenced has been established. the technique appears to have a greater role in second look procedures where it may help determine the extent of recurrent tumour. larger follow-up series are required to define how the additional information provided by this technique may best be exploited.
multiple gunshot wounds of the head: an anthropological view. a decomposed body was judged at the scene to have two gunshot wounds of the thorax and three of the head. confirmed at autopsy, the condition of the remains precluded conclusions about the precise nature of the defects. preparation and reconstruction of the skull disclosed seven large cranial defects and a series of fractures. this preparation allowed the application of well-known principles of gunshot wound analysis. although the analysis of specific gunshot wound defects is well covered in the literature, there are few examples of the application of gunshot wound principles to complex wound cases. three entrances and three exits were identified. a seventh defect resulted from bullet passage. finally, the wounds were sequenced.
preventing colorectal cancer. knowledgeable patients should not die of colorectal cancer. increasing the intake of dietary fiber, decreasing fat consumption, and increasing the use of modern technology to detect adenomatous polyps and early cancer can greatly decrease the mortality associated with colorectal cancer.
management of dysphagia in suspected esophageal motor disorders fifty-three patients suffering from dysphagia because of suspected esophageal motor disorders were treated by pneumatic dilatation using the rider-moeller technique. fifteen had achalasia demonstrated by manometric studies. forty-nine of them had remarkable clinical improvement after the procedure. during the mean period of follow-up (average 5 years, range 1-11), 75% of the patients needed a new dilatation, with a delay of two years. the results of the dilatation were excellent or good in 80% of the cases. early complications consisted in two esophageal perforations surgically treated. there was no mortality. we did not observe late complications of the procedure. we conclude that pneumatic dilatation should be the initial procedure in the treatment of dysphagia in suspected esophageal motor disorders.
coronary atherosclerosis is associated with left ventricular dysfunction and dilatation in aortic stenosis. patients with aortic stenosis develop widely variable patterns of left ventricular hypertrophy and dysfunction. we postulated that coronary atherosclerosis (cad) may be associated with impaired left ventricular function and chamber dilatation in patients with aortic stenosis. left ventricular mass and volumes were quantified from two-dimensional echocardiography and correlated with coronary angiography in 78 patients with severe aortic stenosis and no previous myocardial infarction or regional wall motion abnormalities. eighteen patients (group 1) had smooth coronary arteries, 25 patients had irregular coronary arteries with 50% or less stenosis (group 2), and 35 patients had obstructive cad (group 3). even though the calculated valve area was similar in all three study groups, group 1 patients had higher values for ejection fraction (65 +/- 9%, 51 +/- 17%, and 48 +/- 13%; p = 0.0002), systolic mass-to-volume ratio (9.2 +/- 3.9, 5.6 +/- 2.8, and 5.2 +/- 2.2; p = 0.0001), and cardiac index (2.9 +/- 0.7, 2.5 +/- 0.7, and 2.3 +/- 0.6 l/min.min2; p = 0.015) than patients in groups 2 and 3, respectively (mean +/- sd). mean circumferential wall stress was inversely related to severity of cad. multivariate analysis showed that cad is an independent predictor of ejection fraction and mass-to-volume ratio in this group of patients. thus, in an elderly population with severe aortic stenosis, patients with both obstructive and nonobstructive cad have an increased incidence of left ventricular enlargement and systolic dysfunction.
a standard dose of radiation for "microscopic disease" is not appropriate. elective irradiation of sites of potential occult tumor spread is often part of a patient's radiation therapy program. the required radiation dose (d) depends on the probability that occult disease exists (p(occ)), the number of sites at risk (a), the number of tumor clonogens present (ni), their radiation sensitivity, and the desired control rate. an exponential model of cell survival is used to quantify the importance of these factors. control probability = [1 - pocc x (1 - e-ni x (sf2)d/2)]a; sf2 = surviving fraction after 2 gy. implications for clinical radiation therapy include: 1. since the number of clonogens in an occult site may vary from 10 degrees to 10(8), ni is the major determinant of the required dose. the intrinsic radiation sensitivity of the clonogens (sf2) is also extremely important in determining the dose. other factors are less influential since they vary less. 2. the variability of ni (8 logs) is larger than the variation in cell number seen with gross disease (1 cm3 versus 1000 cm3, 3 logs). when ni approximately 10(8), the required dose approaches that needed for small volume gross disease (10(9) cells, 1 cm3). 3. the dose prescribed to elective sites should reflect the risk of occult disease based on the primary tumor site, stage, and grade. 4. regions where clinicoradiologic evaluation is difficult (e.g., pelvis and obese neck) require higher doses because macroscopic tumor deposits may exist. 5. relatively low doses (10 to 30 gy) are often thought to be inadequate for microscopic tumor. however, similar doses have been reported to sterilize microscopic tumor in ovarian, rectal, bladder, breast, and head and neck carcinomas. relatively low doses should not be discounted since they may be useful in select cases when normal tissue tolerances and/or previous irradiation treatment limit the radiation dose.
monitoring platelet interactions with prosthetic graft implants in a canine model. this study shows that prosthetic arterial grafts stimulate platelets for as long as 1 year after implantation in a canine model. carotid-to-distal aorta dacron (dupont, wilmington, de) grafts (0.8 x 50.0 cm) were tunneled subcutaneously over the right dorsal side, allowing for percutaneous arterial sampling. thromboxane b2 (txb2) levels were evaluated at the proximal anastomosis (w), 5.0 (x), 25.0 (y), and 50.0 (z) cm distal from w, and platelet counts and mean platelet volumes were monitored at sites w and z. txb2 levels increased after blood entered the graft and progressively increased until the blood exited at the distal anastomosis. platelet counts did not significantly change across the graft. over time, systemic platelet counts decreased to approximately 50% of each dog's pregraft baseline levels and remained depressed over a 1 year period. mean platelet volumes peaked 1-3 weeks after implant and remained greater than pregraft levels. examination of the graft luminal surface showed a developed pseudointima characteristically similar to that which develops in mature human vascular grafts. these results suggest that healed vascular grafts in canines continue to stimulate platelet release of txb2, reduce systemic platelet counts, and increase mean platelet volumes over 1 year. these data further suggest that platelets are stimulated by the graft and consumed.
corticotropin-releasing factor modulates the immune response to stress in the rat. we examined the role of crf, a key mediator of the endocrine response to stress, in modulating immunosuppression during the subacute stress of intermittent electrical shock over 1 h. administration of shock to intact rats resulted in a 74% decrement in t-lymphocyte proliferation and a 59% decrease in natural killer cytotoxicity. similar suppression of these two parameters of immune function in response to shock was noted in adrenalectomized rats as well. the immunosuppressive effects of this shock were significantly and comparably blunted when both intact and adrenalectomized animals were pretreated 1) iv with either a highly potent polyclonal crf antibody or a specific crf antagonist or 2) intracerebroventricularly with either a high affinity monoclonal antibody to crf or a specific crf antagonist. an immunomodulatory role for crf is further supported by the findings that administration of exogenous crf, either iv (10 micrograms/animal) or intracerebroventricularly (1 microgram/animal), resulted in significant decrements in lymphocyte proliferation and natural killer cytotoxicity, similar to those seen with the stress paradigm. our observations indicate that crf plays a significant role in modulating the immune response to subacute stress, largely by adrenal-independent mechanisms.
cutaneous melanoma and bilateral retinoblastoma. we report the case of an otherwise healthy 37-year-old man who had had bilateral enucleation during early childhood for bilateral retinoblastomas, in addition to two cutaneous melanomas (the first appearing at age 27 years). he also had dysplastic melanocytic nevi and a history of cutaneous melanoma in his mother. retinoblastoma may aggregate in families and is associated with dna abnormalities of chromosome 13. recent reports have emphasized the appearance of second malignancies in retinoblastoma survivors. the second malignancies include osteosarcoma, soft tissue sarcoma, and cutaneous melanoma. cutaneous melanoma also may aggregate in families, usually in the setting of dysplastic melanocytic nevi. the features of this case and of similar reported cases suggest that there may be a greater than expected association between retinoblastoma and cutaneous melanoma.
multivariate analysis in the prediction of death in hospital after acute myocardial infarction. prognostic factors in patients with acute myocardial infarction based on clinical and investigative data on admission were evaluated prospectively in 111 consecutive patients. seventeen patients (15.3%) died during hospital stay. age, a previous infarct, high killip class, cardiomegaly, high serum concentrations of cardiac enzymes, a low ejection fraction, and a high wall motion score index correlated significantly with in-hospital mortality; whereas sex, risk factors, and pericardial effusion did not. multivariate analysis showed that age and the wall motion score index were the best predictors of death in hospital. wall motion detected by cross sectional echocardiography may reflect the extent of myocardial involvement. age and wall motion score index predicted in-hospital mortality with a sensitivity of 76.5%, a specificity of 91.5%, and a predictive accuracy of 89.2%. age and the wall motion score index can be determined on admission and are useful for identifying patients at high risk of cardiac death who might benefit from early intervention.
increased ischemic injury but decreased hypoxic injury in hypertrophied rat hearts. the purpose of this study was to compare the degree of ischemic and hypoxic injury in normal versus hypertrophied rat hearts to investigate basic mechanisms responsible for irreversible myocardial ischemic injury. hearts from rats with bands placed on the aortic arch at 23 days of age (band) and sham-operated rats (sham, 8 weeks postoperative) were isolated, perfused with krebs buffer, and had a left ventricular balloon to measure developed pressure. hearts were made globally ischemic until they developed peak ischemic contracture and were reperfused for 30 minutes. additional hearts were perfused for 15 minutes with glucose-free hypoxic buffer followed by 20 minutes of oxygenated perfusion. there was an 87% increase in heart weight of band compared with sham (p less than 0.01). during ischemia, lactate levels increased faster in band compared with sham, ischemic contracture occurred earlier in band than in sham despite no difference in atp levels, and postischemic recovery of left ventricular pressure was less in band (26.8 +/- 5.6% of control left ventricular pressure, mean +/- sem) compared with sham (40 +/- 4.6%, p less than 0.05). during hypoxic perfusion, lactate release was greater in band than in sham (48.8 +/- 1.2 versus 26.6 +/- 0.97 mumols/g, p less than 0.01), and with reoxygenation, lactate dehydrogenase release was less in band than in sham (13.2 +/- 0.7 versus 19.5 +/- 0.2 iu/g, p less than 0.01). after hypoxia and reoxygenation, left ventricular pressure recovery was greater in band than in sham (93 +/- 8.4% versus 66 +/- 5.3%, p less than 0.01). thus, this study suggests that hypertrophied hearts have a greater potential for glycolytic metabolism, resulting in an increased rate of by-product accumulation during ischemia, which may be responsible for the increased susceptibility of hypertrophied hearts to ischemic injury.
management of arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the forearm. we initially observed our patient, who had subcutaneous arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the volar forearm, until his wound demarcation was complete. after wound demarcation, we proceeded with debridement and partial-thickness skin grafting. upper extremity function was totally normal 3 months after this therapy. this is the first case report in the literature that describes a child with an arginine monohydrochloride-induced extravasation necrosis.
the painful shoulder: part ii. intrinsic disorders and impingement syndrome. intrinsic disorders that can cause shoulder pain include arthritis, gout, pseudogout and osteonecrosis. in its mildest form, impingement syndrome may cause only minimal discomfort. at its worst, impingement syndrome may lead to rotator cuff tear. bicipital tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon may also be associated with impingement. early rehabilitative intervention is important. physical therapy is directed toward restoring range of motion and muscle strength.
abdominal wall considerations and complications in reoperative surgery. the abdominal wall is the source of significant problems for patients undergoing multiple abdominal operations. the orientation of sequential incisions must be carefully considered to avoid compromise of the abdominal wall blood supply, which may result in either acute (dehiscence) or delayed (ventral hernia) complications. infections are the most serious problems of the multiply operated on abdominal wall. these complications may range from simple wound infection to necrotizing fasciitis. management may require only simple drainage of the infection or may entail extensive debridement for the necrotizing processes. regardless of the cause, the multiply operated on abdominal wall may require reconstruction because of lost fascia. polypropylene mesh can be employed safely and effectively for this purpose.
proliferation and dna ploidy in malignant breast tumors in relation to early oral contraceptive use and early abortions. in 175 premenopausal breast cancer patients, a history of oral contraceptive (oc) use before 20 years of age was significantly associated with higher tumor cell proliferative activity, as indicated by a higher s-phase fraction (spf), and a higher fraction of dna aneuploid tumors, compared with later or never users (p = 0.05 and p = 0.01, respectively). the higher spf among early oc users was apparent in patients with aneuploid tumors but not in patients with euploid tumors. abortions (spontaneous or induced) before the first full-term pregnancy also were associated with a higher spf compared with other young patients with breast cancer (p = 0.03). adjusting for parity and abortions or oc use, respectively, an early oc use was associated with a 43% higher spf and early abortions were associated with 49% higher spf. younger patients had a higher spf and a higher frequency of aneuploid tumors, but this was found to be because the users of oc had a lower median age at diagnosis. among never users, no significant age relationship was seen for spf or the frequency of aneuploidy. for the dna analyses there is a selection of patients with breast cancer with larger tumors, and therefore the conclusions drawn in this article may not be generalizable to patients with smaller primary tumors, e.g., cases diagnosed at breast cancer screening. the higher tumor proliferative activity and frequency of aneuploidy in early oc users are in line with previously reported findings of worse prognostic indicators and a worse survival in early users of oc compared with other young women with breast cancer.
surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly: a case control study. surgical wound infection occurs in fewer than 5% of operations. nevertheless, it represents the second most common type of hospital-acquired infection and results in increased morbidity and mortality. as with all nosocomial infections, the rate of surgical wound infection increases with age. patients over 65 years of age run an approximately 15% risk of surgical wound infection. two-thirds of patients with invasive cancer other than non-melanotic skin cancer are aged 65 years and over. over half of them are treated surgically for their cancer. cancer and other chronic diseases have been cited as possible causes of the increased risk of nosocomial infection among the elderly. using the foothills hospital wound study data base as the sampling frame, we conducted a case-control study of surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly. cancer was found not to be a risk factor for surgical wound infection. the results are discussed in relation to the role of immunity in both disorders.
coronary artery bypass grafting in elderly patients. comparative results in a consecutive series of 469 patients older than 75 years. a consecutive series of 7104 patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting during an 18-year period (1971 to 1988) included 469 patients older than 75 years. results were analyzed to determine comparative risk factors for morbidity, early and late survival, and functional outcome. patients younger than 75 years (group i) and patients older than 75 years (group ii) were identical for ejection fraction and standard hemodynamic indices. mean number of grafts and crossclamp time were greater for group ii patients (p less than 0.01). mean age of group i was 58.6 years and group ii, 77.6 years (p less than 0.01). women composed 19.7% (1308/6635) of group i and 36.2% (170/469) of group ii patients (p less than 0.05). mammary grafts were placed in 57.7% (3830/6635) of group i and 41.6% (195/469) of group ii patients (p less than 0.05). overall perioperative mortality rate was 2.1% for group i and 6.8% for group ii (p less than 0.05). perioperative myocardial infarction rate was similar for the two groups. ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias, renal insufficiency, neurologic complications, prolonged ventilatory support, increased hospital cost, and prolonged hospitalization were significantly more prevalent (all p less than 0.05) in patients older than 75 years. five and 10 years postoperatively, there were no significant differences between groups i and ii with regard to event-free status including angina, myocardial infarction, and reoperation. the 5-year survival rate was 92% for group i and 80% for group ii (p less than 0.05), similar to that of age-matched control subjects. the significantly increased potential for complications and expense of coronary bypass in patients over 75 years of age mandates judicious patient selection and preoperative counseling. despite a significantly increased early mortality and an anticipated decreased long-term survival paralleling normal life table survival curves, good intermediate functional improvement can be realized in patients older than 75 years, comparable with that expected in a much younger age group.
witzel pneumatic dilation for achalasia: safety and long-term efficacy forceful dilation of the lower esophageal sphincter is considered primary therapy for achalasia. the witzel pneumatic balloon dilator, unlike fluoroscopically placed dilators, is placed over a standard gastroscope allowing positioning and dilation under direct vision. we report our experience with the witzel dilator in 45 patients with achalasia over a 5-year period. all patients had at least one major symptom score of 8 out of 10 for dysphagia and/or regurgitation before dilation. after witzel dilation, symptomatic response was graded as excellent (score 0 to 2), good (score 3 to 5), fair (score 6 to 8), and poor (no improvement). symptom response was assessed after 1 week, 1 month, 6 month, 1 year, and present. the mean period of follow-up was 25 months (range, 3 to 85 months). passage of the balloon across the gastroesophageal junction was technically unsuccessful in three patients. esophageal perforation occurred in two patients (4%) and transient chest pain greater than 2 days in three patients (7%). there was no bleeding or death. symptomatic long-term improvement was excellent in 25 patients (63%), good in 6 patients (15%), fair in 4 patients (10%), and poor in 5 patients (12%). a repeat witzel dilation was performed in five patients but resulted in good/excellent improvement in only one patient. we conclude that pneumatic dilation with the witzel balloon is a safe, effective procedure for achalasia.
effects of altering the eicosanoid precursor pool on neovascularization and inflammation in the alkali-burned rabbit cornea. the effects of altering the eicosanoid precursor pool on several aspects of the nonimmunologically mediated inflammatory and angiogenic processes that follow 1n and 4n naoh alkali burning of the rabbit cornea were compared with controls. diets were supplemented with several dosages of oils containing either gamma-linolenic acid (gla) (borage oil), eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) (sardine oil), or a combination of the two in a dose-response protocol. significant changes in serum fatty acid composition were demonstrated. gamma-linolenic acid proved consistently superior to epa in modulating the neovascular response judged by three neovascular indices. at 14 days, gla significantly reduced the polymorphonuclear leukocyte and macrophage inflammatory infiltrate and epa reduced the macrophage component, both with high dose; epa also reduced keratocyte proliferation. wound-healing parameters were unaffected. evidence for gla-epa synergism was modest. prolonged neovascular responses and chronic inflammation occurring in the clinically relevant context of severe structural damage can be modulated by nutritional alteration of the eicosanoid precursor pool.
hla class ii antigens and dna restriction fragment length polymorphism in myasthenia gravis in japan. human leukocyte phenotypes and genes in the hla class ii regions were studied in 46 japanese patients with myasthenia gravis. when the hla phenotypes of the patients with myasthenia gravis were compared with the controls, an increased frequency of hla-drw53 was observed in females less than 30 years of age. the genomic dnas of the hla-drw53-positive patients and drw53-positive controls were analyzed by using four complementary dna probes for hla class ii genes. with dqb complementary dna as the probe, a higher incidence of the 6.5-kb or 8.2-kb bamhi fragment was observed in the patients (76.0%) compared with the controls (19.0%). in contrast, no significant difference was observed between patients and controls when complementary dnas for drb, dqa, and dpb were used as probes. these results indicate that the genetic background of japanese females with early-onset myasthenia gravis is different from other patients with myasthenia gravis, and that dqb genes can greatly influence the onset of myasthenia gravis.
rationalisation of follow-up in patients with non-invasive bladder tumours. a preliminary report. the risk of recurrence and progression in 170 patients presenting with pta urothelial tumours of the bladder has been estimated so that follow-up can be rationalised. patients were followed up for between 1 and 15 years, the original pathology reviewed and those with carcinoma in situ (cis) or dysplasia of the background urothelium excluded. only 5 patients progressed over the whole follow-up period, giving an overall progression rate of 3%. solitary tumours had an annual initial recurrence risk (air) of 0.23 in the first year; after the first year the air fell to approximately 0.1 but did not fall significantly in subsequent years up to 8 years. of the 45 patients with multiple tumours, 32 suffered recurrences within the first year (air 0.71). tumour grade did not influence either recurrence or progression. the results indicate that for solitary pta tumours, less frequent endoscopic follow-up is justified but some continued surveillance after 5 disease-free years is necessary. the estimated risk of recurrence is a useful factor to consider when planning follow-up.
neonatal facial and cry responses to invasive and non-invasive procedures. evaluation of pain in neonates is difficult due to their limited means of communication. the aim was to determine whether behavioural reactions of cry and facial activity provoked by an invasive procedure could be discriminated from responses to non-invasive tactile events. thirty-six healthy full-term infants (mean age 2.2 h) received 3 procedures in counterbalanced order: intramuscular injection, application of triple dye to the umbilical stub, and rubbing thigh with alcohol. significant effects of procedure were found for total face activity and latency to face movement. a cluster of facial actions comprised of brow bulging, eyes squeezed shut, deepening of the naso-labial furrow and open mouth was associated most frequently with the invasive procedure. comparisons between the 2 non-invasive procedures showed more facial activity to thigh swabbing and least to application of triple dye to the umbilical cord. acoustic analysis of cry showed statistically significant differences across procedures only for latency to cry and cry duration for the group as a whole. however, babies who cried to two procedures showed higher pitch and greater intensity to the injection. there were no significant differences in melody, dysphonation, or jitter. methodological difficulties for investigators in this area were examined, including criteria for the selection of cries for analysis, and the logical and statistical challenges of contrasting cries induced by different conditions when some babies do not always cry. it was concluded that facial expression, in combination with short latency to onset of cry and long duration of first cry cycle typifies reaction to acute invasive procedures.
obesity and colorectal adenomatous polyps. obesity has been investigated as a risk factor for various malignancies, including colon cancer. a case-control study was conducted on patients in three colonoscopy practices in new york city to determine possible risk factors for colorectal adenomatous polyps, a known precursor lesion for most cases of colorectal cancer. among 301 case subjects with incidence adenomatous polyps (174 men and 127 women) and 506 control subjects (223 men and 283 women), an increased risk was observed with increasing body mass index in women (odds ratio 2.1, 95% confidence interval 1.1-4.0; for highest versus lowest quartile, linear trend p = .02). a nonsignificant trend was observed for men. the increased risk seen in women is consistent with prior observations regarding reproductive hormonal and dietary risk factors for colorectal cancer.
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil. an unusual complication of a hickman catheter. venous access devices (vad) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer. multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad. the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium, resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-fu). pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed, but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade. she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction.
heart rate adjustment of exercise-induced st segment depression. improved risk stratification in the framingham offspring study background. simple heart rate adjustment of st segment depression during exercise (delta st/hr index) and the pattern of st depression as a function of heart rate during exercise and recovery (the rate-recovery loop) have been shown to improve the ability of the exercise electrocardiogram to detect the presence of coronary heart disease (chd), but the performance of these methods for the prediction of future coronary events remains to be examined. methods and results. we compared the delta st/hr index and the rate-recovery loop with standard electrocardiographic criteria for prediction of chd events in 3,168 asymptomatic men and women in the framingham offspring study who underwent treadmill exercise electrocardiography and who, at entry, were free of clinical and electrocardiographic evidence of chd. after a mean follow-up of 4.3 years, there were 65 new chd events: four sudden deaths, 24 new myocardial infarctions, and 37 incident cases of angina pectoris. when a cox proportional hazards model with adjustment for age and sex was used, a positive exercise electrocardiogram by standard criteria (greater than or equal to 0.1 mv horizontal or downsloping st segment depression) was not predictive of new chd events (chi 2 = 0.40, p = 0.52). in contrast, stratification according to the presence or absence of a positive delta st/hr index (greater than or equal to 1.6 microv/beat/min) and a positive (counterclockwise) rate-recovery loop was associated with chd event risk (chi 2 = 9.45, p less than 0.01) and separated subjects into three groups with varying risks of coronary events: high risk, when both tests were positive (relative risk 3.6; 95% confidence interval, 2.4-5.4); intermediate risk, when either the delta st/hr index or the rate-recovery loop was positive (relative risk, 1.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-2.8); and low risk, when both tests were negative. after multivariate adjustment for age, sex, smoking, total cholesterol level, fasting glucose level, diastolic blood pressure, and electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy, the combined delta st/hr index and rate-recovery loop criteria remained predictive of coronary events (chi 2 = 5.45, p = 0.02). conclusions. heart rate adjustment of st segment depression by the delta st/hr index and the rate-recovery loop during exercise electrocardiography can improve prediction of future coronary events in asymptomatic men and women.
dna analysis of neoplasia: an introduction for the family physician. pathologic evaluation of a neoplastic process has traditionally consisted of microscopic examination of a stained section of tissue. although this method is generally reliable when performed by an experienced pathologist, the morphologic features of a lesion may not consistently predict biologic behavior. the dna content of tumors can be studied with a flow cytometer to help determine the prognosis and risk of tumor recurrence. dna analysis of a neoplasm may provide the clinician with important prognostic information and, at some future date, may help direct chemotherapy or other treatment protocols.
increased whole blood viscosity combined with decreased erythrocyte fluidity in untreated patients with essential hypertension. erythrocyte fluidity and other haemorheological variables were studied in 22 patients with essential hypertension and compared with age- and sex-matched healthy controls. hypertensive patients displayed a significantly lower erythrocyte fluidity (p less than 0.001). similarly, significantly elevated values for haematocrit, plasma and whole blood viscosity, as well as aggregation tendency were observed compared to controls. although differing in these respects from controls, there were no obvious relationships between these rheological variables and either systolic or diastolic blood pressure. the significantly lower erythrocyte fluidity and other changes in haemorheological variables of red blood cells found in hypertensive patients may be explained by an enlarged metabolic pool of free calcium ions in these red blood cells. it is suggested that the molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of essential hypertension are multifactorial rather than being based on a single molecular derangement. primary events resulting in altered physicochemical properties of the red blood cells may work in concert in the development of essential hypertension, in addition to the increased availability of calcium ions and their potential role in smooth muscle contraction.
double-blind randomized trial of perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement for femoropopliteal bypass. patients with rest pain or acute peripheral arterial thrombosis are known to have impaired endogenous fibrinolysis, which is associated with an increased risk of early vascular graft thrombosis. this risk is exacerbated by the fibrinolytic shutdown which is known to occur after major surgery. stanozolol, which has been demonstrated to enhance endogenous fibrinolysis, was therefore used in an attempt to prevent this perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown and so enhance graft patency. twenty-seven patients were randomized to receive either 50 mg stanozolol or placebo intramuscularly 24 h before operation, followed by a 6 week course of either 5 mg stanozolol or placebo orally, twice daily. on the second day after operation, 10-11 mbq of autologous 111indium-labelled platelets were injected, with scanning over the graft on the 3 following days. despite using a large depot of stanozolol, significant effects, such as raised plasminogen (p less than 0.001), reduced fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) and reduced euglobulin lysis time (p less than 0.001), were not seen until the seventh day after operation, with maximum benefit at 6 weeks. this was reflected in the 111indium-labelled platelet deposition studies. the placebo group had a progressive increase in platelet deposition on all 3 days. in contrast, those receiving stanozolol showed a lower, static picture of deposition. however, these changes did not attain statistical significance. three patients experienced early graft thrombosis, two in the placebo group and one in the stanozolol group. only an incomplete inhibition of the perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown was achieved. much longer preoperative courses are thus required to allow the maximum effect to be present at the most crucial time. at present, perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement does not appear to be a practical proposition, and we must await the development of new safer and more potent agents.
prostate specific antigen for assessing response to ketoconazole and prednisone in patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. serial prostate specific antigen levels were assessed in 15 patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer treated with ketoconazole and prednisone. of the men 12 (80%) with continually increasing prostate specific antigen levels before treatment had a decrease in prostate specific antigen with a median duration of response of 3 months. three patients (20%) had a prolonged response (greater than or equal to 8 months) as seen by a persistently decreasing prostate specific antigen and improvement in bone pain. there appears to be a small subgroup of patients with progressive prostate cancer despite androgen ablation who will benefit from ketoconazole and glucocorticoid treatment. the use of serial prostate specific antigen levels appears to help define this subgroup and avoid the need for multiple radiological procedures to assess response.
significance of u wave polarity in patients with a prior inferior myocardial infarction. sixty consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography and left ventriculography from six to eight weeks after the onset of definite inferior myocardial infarction were divided into three groups according to the polarity of u waves in (1) leads ii, iii, a vf and (2) in leads v4 to v6 (positive = group p, flat or isoelectric = group f, and negative = group n). the following parameters were analyzed: (1) ecg score; (2) global ejection fraction: (3) regional area change: (4) number of asynergic, and akinetic segmental radii; (5) number of asynergic and akinetic areas: and (6) number of diseased coronary arteries and the incidence of left anterior descending artery (lad) disease. there were no significant differences among the three groups according to the polarity of u waves in two subgroups by the site of u waves in age, gender, systemic blood pressure, and ecg scores. the polarity of u waves in leads ii.iii.a vf (subgroup 1) correlated with the size of myocardial infarction; regional area changes in inferior segment (area 2) were 64.1 +/- 8.2 in group p1, 31.8 +/- 14.7 in group f1, and 21.0 +/- 15.8 in group n1 (p less than 0.01, f = 32.8). the polarity of u waves in leads v4-6 (subgroup2) correlated with anterolateral wall motion; regional area changes in anterolateral segments (area 5) were 76.8 +/- 11.6 in group p, 66.5 +/- 18.5 in group f, and 48.9 +/- 17.1 in group n (p less than 0.01, f = 18.6). the incidence of multivessel disease increased from group p2 (36.4%), to group f2 (54.5%), to group n2 (75.0%), and the incidence of lad disease increased from 27.3%, to 45.5%, to 68.8%, respectively. a negative u wave in either location suggested severely decreased apical wall motion, and there was a tendency for global ejection fractions to decrease in the following order: group p, group f, and group n. from these results, the authors conclude that the polarity of u waves may be one of the parameters correlating with the wall motion and left ventricular function in prior inferior myocardial infarction.
malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy. of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon, 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy (31 patients, group i) or by radical segmental resection (18 patients, group ii) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure. the operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group i and 11 per cent in group ii (not a statistically significant difference). however, substantial differences were found for major morbidity (6 versus 44 per cent in groups i and ii respectively; p less than 0.01) and mean length of hospital stay (17 days in group i versus 35 days in group ii; p less than 0.05). all three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma. six patients (19 per cent) in group i required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period. however, subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients. it is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results.
congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites. isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops. this entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies. fetal chyloperitoneum, however, should be considered as a possible cause. pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications. we present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum.
changes in diastolic cardiac function in developing and stable perinephritic hypertension in conscious dogs. the effects of developing perinephritic hypertension (2-3 weeks) and a more stable period of perinephritic hypertension (approximately 14 weeks) were examined on indexes of left ventricular (lv) diastolic function in conscious, chronically instrumented dogs. the complete period of diastole was studied using indexes of isovolumic relaxation (tau), early filling (lv +dd/dt), and stiffness (myocardial stiffness and chamber stress/diameter ratio). during developing hypertension, increased lv end-diastolic pressure, lv end-diastolic stress, peak filling rate, myocardial stiffness, and the stress/diameter ratio increased (p less than 0.05); the time constant tau was not changed. these changes were associated with preserved baseline levels of coronary blood flow (radioactive microspheres) but an impaired coronary vasodilator response to adenosine. acute administration of phenylephrine in the normotensive dogs caused increases in systolic and diastolic stress and resulted in increases in myocardial stiffness and in the stress/diameter ratio similar to values observed in developing hypertension. during stable hypertension, lv end-diastolic stress, peak filling rate, and both parameters of late-diastolic function (myocardial stiffness and stress/diameter ratio) returned toward control values, but the isovolumic relaxation time constant was increased. quantitative histological evaluation revealed no increase in stainable connective tissue in dogs with stable hypertension compared with control dogs, and hydroxyproline concentration was not increased in the subendomyocardium, midmyocardium, or subepimyocardium of the dogs with chronic perinephritic hypertension. thus, in developing hypertension, major alterations in diastolic function were observed that were not structurally related, since these changes 1) could be induced in normal dogs by increasing preload and afterload acutely with phenylephrine and 2) were improved during the ensuing stable period of hypertension.
primary abscess of the omentum. a 65-yr-old man presented with upper abdominal pain and fever due to a primary abscess of the omentum. the finding of microscopic-size foreign particles within the abscess raised the possibility of antecedent clinically silent perforation of the bowel or appendix. surgical resection and antibiotic therapy were curative.
long-term follow-up of the use of nonporous hydroxyapatite for augmentation of the alveolar ridge. particulate hydroxyapatite (ha) was used in the augmentation of 18 mandibular and four maxillary ridges in 21 patients whose cases were followed postoperatively for 5 to 7 years. patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and through questionnaires. prosthodontic assessment of retention and stability of dentures showed improvement 5 years postoperatively. patients receiving ha rated their dentures favorably using parameters of the cornell medical index. the results of this study show that particulate ha alone can be used as a satisfactory material for augmentation of the alveolar ridge.
characteristics of black patients admitted to coronary care units in metropolitan seattle: results from the myocardial infarction triage and intervention registry (miti). since 1988, 641 black and 11,892 white patients with chest pain of presumed cardiac origin have been admitted to coronary care units in 19 hospitals in metropolitan seattle. black men and women were younger (58 vs 66, p less than 0.0001), more often admitted to central city hospitals (p less than 0.0001), and developed evidence of acute myocardial infarction (ami) less often (19 vs 23%, p = 0.01). in the subset of 2,870 ami patients, blacks (n = 121) were younger (59 vs 67, p less than 0.0001) and had less prior coronary artery bypass graft surgery (2 vs 10%, p = 0.005) and more prior hypertension (67 vs 46%, p less than 0.0001). during hospitalization, whites (n = 2,749) had higher rates of coronary angioplasty (18 vs 10%, p = 0.03) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (10 vs 4%, p = 0.04), although thrombolytic therapy and cardiac catheterization were used equally in the 2 groups. hospital mortality was 7.4% for black and 13.1% for white patients (p = 0.07). however, after adjustment for key demographic and clinical variables by logistic regression, this difference was not as apparent (p = 0.38). questions about the premature onset of coronary artery disease, excess systemic hypertension, and the differential use of interventions in black persons have been raised by other investigators. despite differences in age, referral patterns and the use of coronary angioplasty and bypass surgery, black and white patients with ami in metropolitan seattle had similar outcomes.
a rat model of esophageal varices. we have developed a new method for inducing portal hypertension and esophageal varices in rats--partial ligation of the portal vein after devascularization of the circumference of the left renal vein and complete ligation of the portal vein on the fifth day thereafter. thirty rats were separated into groups of 10, control (sham operation), complete portal ligation only and complete portal ligation plus devascularization. two weeks after the surgery, the presence of esophageal varices in rats with complete portal ligation plus devascularization was confirmed by portography and by the histological findings. the diameter (mean +/- sd) of the submucosal veins of the lower esophagus in the complete portal ligation plus devascularization group (219.4 +/- 86.6 microns) was significantly larger than that in the complete portal ligation group (99.8 +/- 53.4 microns) or in the control group (30.5 +/- 16.6 microns) (p less than 0.01). vascular structures of the lower esophagus closely resembled those in humans with esophageal varices. this new technique is simple, rapid and reliable, and application can be made to various experimental studies on portal hypertension.
thoracic spinal fractures and aortic rupture: a significant and fatal association. we analyzed the frequency of occurrence of traumatic aortic rupture (tar) in patients with and without thoracic spinal fractures. among 4,676 blunt chest trauma victims admitted to the hospital between 1972 and 1988, 148 (3.2%) suffered one or more thoracic vertebral fractures. there were 73 patients with one or more fractures of the first eight thoracic vertebrae (t1 to t8); of these 73, 4 also suffered tar (5.5%). there were 4,603 patients without fractures of t1 to t8, and 64 of these patients also suffered tar (1.4%). this difference was significant by the chi2 and fisher exact tests, p = 0.00378 and p = 0.021003, respectively. additionally, all 5 patients with tar and thoracic vertebral fractures died. we conclude that patients with one or more fractures of t1 to t8 have a statistically significant increase in the incidence of tar.
life events and difficulties preceding stroke. life events and difficulties were recorded for the year before stroke, using a standardised semi-structured interview, in 113 surviving patients seen after their first ever in a lifetime stroke. an age and sex-matched control group (n = 109) was also interviewed about the preceding year. the stroke patients reported fewer non-threatening events and events with only a short-term threat, while difficulties were reported with equal frequency by the two groups. however, events which were severely threatening in the long-term were significantly more common in the stroke patients (in the 52 weeks before stroke 26% versus 13%, odds ratio 2.3, 95% confidence interval 1.1-4.9). the increased rate was apparent throughout the year and not just in the weeks immediately before stroke onset. the number of stroke patients experiencing severe events in the follow up year fell to the level found in the control group. recognised risk factors for stroke were found equally in those patients with and without severe events before onset, except that hypertension was rather less common in the patients who had experienced a severe event. it therefore appears that severe life events may be one of the determinants of stroke onset.
mortality and treated blood pressure in patients of the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly. elderly hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to treatment with diuretics and methyldopa (n = 352) or placebo (n = 339), and divided into three groups, each according to their blood pressures, after nine months of treatment. subsequently, 65 placebo patients and 56 treated patients died. a u-shaped relation was seen in treated patients between mortality and systolic blood pressure, and in placebo patients between mortality and diastolic blood pressure. whereas in treated patients, the highest mortality was seen in patients with the lowest diastolic pressure, the lowest mortality was seen in the group with the highest diastolic pressure. the increased mortality in treated patients with the lowest blood pressure may not be drug-induced, but an expression of deterioration in general health, as indicated by the decreases in body weight and hemoglobin levels found in patients with the lowest blood pressures in previous analyses of these data.
area-at-risk determination by technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile in experimental reperfused myocardial infarction in a canine model of reperfused myocardial infarction, we tested the hypothesis that after reperfusion, technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (tc-mibi) tomographic imaging still reflects occlusion blood flow when the tracer is injected before reperfusion. nine anesthetized dogs underwent 2 hours of coronary occlusion followed by 3 hours of reperfusion ending by being killed. reference coronary blood flow was determined by radioactive microspheres injected during occlusion and after reperfusion. biopsies in normal and ischemic myocardium and single photon emission computed tomography were obtained during occlusion and after reperfusion. circumferential profiles were applied to axial slices divided into 5-degree sectors. the sectors were divided into 3 groups selected on the occlusion acquisition (normal, mildly reduced, and severely reduced) and compared with the postreperfusion acquisition. tissular tc-mibi kinetics was assessed both by tc-mibi time-activity curves of normal and ischemic tissue obtained by biopsy and by the relative gradient between normal, ischemic, and necrotic postmortem tissue samples. in biopsy samples, tc-mibi content remained unchanged during occlusion and after reperfusion in normal as well as in ischemic tissue (4,662 +/- 2,237 counts/min/mg vs. 4,599 +/- 1,577 counts/min/mg in normal tissue, ns; 941 +/- 903 counts/min/mg vs. 1,087 +/- 721 counts/min/mg in ischemic tissue, ns). in postmortem tissue samples, there was a good correlation between occlusion microsphere blood flow and tc-mibi activity (r = 0.91). in the necrotic samples, mean normalized tc-mibi activity (10 +/- 17%) was slightly higher than the normalized microsphere blood flow (3 +/- 3%, p less than 0.001) but markedly lower than the normalized microsphere reperfusion blood flow (63 +/- 31%, p less than 0.001). comparing the single photon emission computed tomographic acquisitions before and after reperfusion, tc-mibi activity remained unchanged in normal as well as in mildly reduced or severely reduced segments. thus, our data are consistent with the hypothesis that tc-mibi traces blood flow, does not redistribute significantly despite reperfusion, and can be used for imaging the area at risk.
secondary prevention with verapamil after myocardial infarction. the danish study group on verapamil in myocardial infarction. the effect of verapamil on death and major events (i.e., death or reinfarction) after an acute myocardial infarction was studied in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial, the danish verapamil infarction trial ii (davit ii). eight hundred seventy-eight patients started treatment with verapamil 360 mg/day and 897 patients with placebo. treatment continued for up to 18 months (mean 16 months). ninety-five deaths and 146 major events occurred in the verapamil group and 119 deaths and 180 major events in the placebo group. eighteen-month mortality rates were 11.1 and 13.8% (hazard ratio 0.80, 95% confidence limits 0.63 to 1.05, p = 0.108), and major event rates 18.0 and 21.6% (0.80, 0.64 to 0.99, p = 0.027) in the verapamil and placebo groups respectively. when combining the results of this trial with the results of the first danish study on verapamil in myocardial infarction, the meta-analysis demonstrated that treatment with verapamil from the second week after an acute myocardial infarction resulted in a reduction of pooled odds ratios of 0.22 (95% confidence interval 0.01 to 0.37, p = 0.04) for death, 0.21 (0.05 to 0.35, p = 0.02) for major events, and 0.27 (0.06 to 0.43, p = 0.02) for first reinfarctions. it is concluded that long-term treatment with verapamil after an acute myocardial infarction is associated with a significant reduction in overall mortality as well as major event and reinfarction rates.
acquired childhood aphasia. outcome 1 year after onset. the effects of the variables age at onset, cause, severity and bilaterality of lesion, and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children. analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia. the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans. most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset. recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories. complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases.
immunohistochemical demonstration of keratin in ameloblastoma as an indication of tumor differentiation. keratin expression was studied immunohistochemically in 27 ameloblastomas using polyclonal antibody against wide-spectrum keratins (ttl) and monoclonal antibodies against lower- and higher-molecular-weight keratins (pkk1 and kl1), respectively, to clarify the tumor differentiation. reactions with ttl and kl1 antibodies were generally positive in the stellate cells of the follicular or acanthomatous ameloblastomas. cell nests of the basal cell type were positive for pkk1. on the other hand, the reactions with ttl or kl1 in the plexiform type were generally weak or absent. from these facts, it was concluded that the follicular, as well as acanthomatous, ameloblastoma is liable to undergo squamous differentiation, whereas the plexiform ameloblastoma remains in primitive stage of tumor differentiation.
bretylium tosylate versus lidocaine in experimental cardiac arrest bretylium tosylate has been shown effective in the treatment of ventricular fibrillation and in the prevention of its recurrence. however, lidocaine is generally preferred because bretylium could have adverse hemodynamic effects related to its antiadrenergic action. to explore further the differences between these two antiarrhythmic agents, the authors compared the effects of bretylium, lidocaine, and saline on a standardized dog model of ventricular fibrillation followed by electromechanical dissociation (emd). the protocol included three successive episodes of cardiac arrest in each animal. three minutes before each episode of ventricular fibrillation, 5 mg/kg of bretylium tosylate (n = 11), 1 mg/kg of lidocaine (n = 9) or saline (n = 12) were administered blindly. there was no difference in the duration of cardiac arrest (bretylium, 8 min 18 sec; lidocaine, 7 min 54 sec; saline, 8 min 20 sec) or the total doses of epinephrine required to resuscitate the animals. both bretylium and lidocaine appeared to preserve cardiac function 5 minutes after recovery, as stroke volume increased from 17.8 +/- 6.7 to 18.7 +/- 6.7 ml (ns) after bretylium and from 17.7 +/- 7.7 to 19.0 +/- 7.0 ml (ns) after lidocaine, but decreased from 19.0 +/- 5.3 to 14.6 +/- 6.0 ml (p less than .05) after saline. during the first 10 minutes of emd, ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia recurred in 4 dogs treated with lidocaine, 3 dogs treated with saline, but no dog treated with bretylium (p less than .05 between bretylium and saline).
right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale caused by pulmonary hypertension associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren's syndrome: a case report. this case report presents a fifty-four-year-old woman with right-to-left shunt in the atrium. it seemed clinically at first that the shunt was due to atrial septal defect. however, she also had pulmonary disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren's syndrome. at autopsy atrial septal defect was not evident, but a patent foramen ovale and pulmonary artery disease were observed. this case suggests that pulmonary hypertension secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren's syndrome could lead to right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale.
tricuspid atresia or severe stenosis with partial common atrioventricular canal: anatomic data, clinical profile and surgical considerations. the anatomic findings in 11 cases of tricuspid atresia and in two cases of severe tricuspid stenosis, both combined with partial common atrioventricular (av) canal, are presented in detail. twelve cases were documented by postmortem examination and the diagnosis was confirmed by echocardiography and surgical observation in the one living patient. clinical data available in nine cases and cardiac catheterization data obtained in eight are included in this report. in three cases (23%)--two with tricuspid atresia and one with extreme tricuspid stenosis--the tricuspid valve and right ventricle exhibited characteristics seen in ebstein's anomaly. in all 13 cases, the great arteries were normally related. the ventricular septal defect(s) in 10 (83%) of the 12 postmortem cases rapidly became smaller and this resulted in marked diminution of the pulmonary blood flow and severe hypoxia. only three of the eight patients with available cardiac catheterization and angiocardiographic data showed the scooped-out appearance of the left ventricular septal surface characteristic of av canal defects. by contrast, two-dimensional echocardiography, available in the three most recent cases, accurately demonstrated all the defects present and represents the diagnostic method of choice. early surgical intervention to establish a systemic to pulmonary artery anastomosis is essential for survival. more definitive surgical treatment can be achieved later by an atriopulmonary or cavopulmonary anastomosis with or without replacement of the cleft and often regurgitant mitral valve. the one living patient exemplifies this approach. this is the largest series of this unusual type of tricuspid atresia reported to date.
loop ileostomy after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis--is it necessary? construction of a loop ileostomy is usually advised in patients having an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis to minimize the complication of chronic pelvic sepsis. formation and closure of a loop ileostomy was associated with a 41 percent and 30 percent complication rate, respectively, in a prospective series of 34 patients. this morbidity must now be assessed in relation to the benefits of avoiding temporary fecal diversion in restorative proctocolectomy.
spinal cord hemangioblastoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage. a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a cervical hemangioblastoma is presented. the clinical picture was indistinguishable from that of a subarachnoid hemorrhage from an intracranial lesion. the diagnosis was established by angiography and water-soluble contrast myelography followed by cervical computed tomographic scan. at surgery, the tumor was completely removed, and no neurological deficit was observed after the operation.
a comparison of regulatory cells in spinal fluid and blood in patients with multiple sclerosis and other neurologic diseases. multiple sclerosis is a disease in which immune abnormalities are present both in the cns and peripheral blood. whether these changes are primary or secondary to the disease process is not known. we tested t-cell clones derived from activated lymphocytes in the blood and csf of ms patients and controls for their capacity to regulate t-cell responses to alloantigens. a wide spectrum of regulatory functions were observed, ranging from marked enhancement to almost complete suppression. clones from different patient populations and anatomic sites were equivalent in their regulatory functions with the net effect of clones in each compartment being suppression. however, certain clones from csf and peripheral blood had the capacity to stimulate autologous t cells. percentages of such clones in the peripheral blood of ms patients were significantly higher than in controls, while percentages in ms and other neurologic diseases (ond) csf were equivalent. our data suggest that (1) functional suppressor cells are not lost from the blood or csf or ms and ond patients, (2) lymphocytes that have entered the cns in patients with ms and other cns diseases have equivalent regulatory functions, (3) ms may be an illness in which peripheral immunologic events are important in perpetuating the disease process, and (4) responses to autologous antigens may also play a role in this perpetuation.
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure. the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance. in both cases, the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and %vc was less than 30%. remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night. the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints. all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died. appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis.
effect of marked peripheral leukocytosis on the leukocyte count in ascites. patients with high peripheral leukocyte counts are sometimes found to have high leukocyte counts in ascitic fluid in the presence of negative cultures. to determine if peripheral leukocytosis (greater than or equal to 20 x 10(9)/l) by itself can result in high leukocyte or neutrophil counts in ascites, 29 patients were studied. a total of 31 paracenteses were performed in these patients as soon as the high peripheral leukocyte count was determined. culture of ascitic fluid was performed using blood-culture bottles. the mean peripheral leukocyte count was 29.3 +/- 9.3 x 10(9)/l, with a mean neutrophil count of 19.9 +/- 6.5 x 10(9)/l. the mean ascitic fluid neutrophil count was 0.064 +/- 0.054 x 10(9)/l (range, 0.007 to 0.197 x 10(9)/l). no significant correlation was found between peripheral neutrophil (or leukocyte) count and neutrophil (or leukocyte) count in ascitic fluid. marked peripheral leukocytosis (or neutrophilia) does not seem to have an effect on the leukocyte or neutrophil count in ascitic fluid.
prolonged continuous acyclovir treatment of normal adults with frequently recurring genital herpes simplex virus infection. the acyclovir study group. in this 3-year study of suppressive acyclovir for recurrent genital herpes, patients with more than six recurrences per year were randomized initially to 400 mg of acyclovir or placebo orally two times per day, with recurrences treated with 200 mg of acyclovir five times per day for 5 days. in the second year of the study, all patients received acyclovir as a daily suppressive or intermittent acute therapy; in the third year, all received daily acyclovir. among 525 patients completing 3 study years, 289 received 3 years of suppressive therapy and 236 received 1 year of acute therapy followed by 2 years of suppressive therapy. of those who completed the third year, 61% were recurrence free that year; 25% of the suppressive therapy-only group were recurrence free for all 3 years. the annual recurrence rate dropped from more than 12 recurrences per year at baseline to 1.0 (suppressive therapy) and 1.4 (acute and suppressive therapy) recurrences during the third year. no significant toxic effects were detected. daily suppressive acyclovir therapy was effective and well tolerated.
infection in the myelodysplastic syndromes. purpose: to determine the incidence, characteristics, and outcome of infection in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) and risk factors that may lead to infection. patients and methods: we reviewed infections that occurred in 86 consecutive patients with mds who received care from 1968 to 1986 at a university-affiliated veterans affairs medical center. time lines charting the course of each patient with mds were created and included infections, mds subgroup at the time of presentation and at the time of each infection, peripheral neutrophil counts, and therapies for mds. results: infections occurred at a rate of nearly one per patient year of observation. infection rates were associated with mds subgroup as follows: refractory anemia with or without ringed sideroblasts (ra +/- rs) less than refractory anemia with excess blasts (raeb) less than raeb in transformation (raeb-t). the group of ra +/- rs patients who had erythroid abnormalities but minimal or no dyspoiesis of other cell lines had the lowest rate of infections. infection rates were higher in patients with less than or equal to 1,000 neutrophils/microl blood than in patients with greater than 1,000 neutrophils/microl blood for each classifiable mds subgroup. neutrophil concentration and mds subgroup were independent risk factors for infection in patients with mds. bacterial pneumonias and skin abscesses were the most common infections. infection was the most common cause of death during mds, accounting for 64% of deaths, and was more common than transformation to acute leukemia as a cause of death. conclusion: infection is a common, life-threatening problem in patients with mds. neutropenia and mds subgroup are each risk factors for infection. clinicians should aggressively evaluate patients with fever and mds for infection, especially pneumonia and skin infections.
patient-controlled analgesic administration. a comparison of steady-state morphine infusions with bolus doses. the authors have shown previously that bone marrow transplant (bmt) patients who self-administered bolus doses of morphine gained equal oral mucositis pain relief while using less drug compared with similar patients receiving morphine by staff-controlled continuous infusion. in a follow-up study they compared the efficacy and side effects of morphine in two groups of marrow transplant patients who controlled their own analgesic administration either by conventional bolus-dose, patient-controlled analgesia (pca) or by adjusting the rate of continuous morphine infusion to increase or decrease their plasma morphine concentration. patients controlling their morphine infusion rates (pharmacokinetically based patient-controlled analgesia [pkpca] group) obtained more relief from oral mucositis pain than did patients using conventional pca. patients in the pkpca group used more morphine than pca patients and achieved superior pain relief without significant increases in side effects (e.g., nausea, mood changes, sedation). the authors conclude that pkpca improves the management of prolonged, severe pain in marrow transplant patients and that this approach to patient-controlled analgesia may be useful in other types of persistent pain.
mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap after resection of carcinoma of the esophagus involving the proximal part of the trachea. an operative procedure of mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is presented. in this procedure, the terminal portion of the trachea penetrates through the center of a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap and the tracheal wall is completely wrapped with the muscular portion of the flap. between 1981 and 1988, eight patients with carcinoma in the cervicothoracic segment of the esophagus underwent mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy and extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea through sternal manubrectomy, because of invasion into the trachea. in five of eight patients, a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap was used to construct a tracheal stoma. a skin flap only, or both a skin flap and a muscle flap, was used in the other three. in four of eight patients, tracheal necrosis occurred, and rupture of the brachiocephalic artery occurred in one patient when the tracheal stoma had been constructed using both a skin flap and a muscle flap. however, neither skin breakdown nor bleeding from the major vessels occurred when using the myocutaneous flap. therefore, it is concluded that the construction of the tracheal stoma using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is recommended for mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy with extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea.
polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction: polip syndrome. we describe 5 individuals (from three separate families) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy, cranial neuropathies (external ophthalmoplegia, deafness), and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied. autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system, possibly secondary to axonal atrophy, and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter (leukoencephalopathy). the cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact. the fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy. we suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical, radiological, and neuropathological features, and propose the acronym polip to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
impaired left ventricular filling and regional diastolic asynchrony at rest in coronary artery disease and relation to exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. impaired left ventricular (lv) diastolic filling at rest is frequently observed in patients with coronary artery disease (cad) who have normal lv systolic function and no previous infarction. to test the hypothesis that abnormal diastolic function at rest might reflect the functional severity of cad, as estimated by exercise-induced ischemia, the relation between regional and global lv diastolic function at rest and during exercise-induced ischemia was evaluated in 49 patients with radionuclide angiography. all patients had normal systolic function at rest. group 1 (n = 26) patients manifested a normal ejection fraction response to exercise and group 2 (n = 23) patients an abnormal response. data obtained from 22 age-comparable normal volunteers were used for comparison. although regional and global diastolic function were not different between normal subjects and group 1 patients, peak filling rate was lower in group 2 patients than in normal subjects (2.5 +/- 0.8 vs 3.2 +/- 0.6 end-diastolic counts/s; p less than 0.01). moreover, regional diastolic asynchrony, as assessed from the radionuclide data by using a regional sector analysis of the lv region of interest, was greater in group 2 patients (46 +/- 44 ms) than in both normal subjects (25 +/- 16 ms; p less than 0.05) and group 1 patients (23 +/- 16 ms; p less than 0.05). thus, among patients with cad and with normal lv systolic function at rest, impaired lv filling and regional asynchrony predict a greater degree of exercise-induced ischemia, suggesting a greater extent of jeopardized myocardium.
the gore-tex anterior cruciate ligament prosthesis. two versus three year results. a prospective clinical study of the results of prosthetic ligament replacement of the acl with the gore-tex polytetrafluoroethylene prosthesis was undertaken. thirty-three (80%) of 41 patients were available at a minimum 36 month followup (mean, 48 months; range, 36 to 62). kaplan-meier survival analysis revealed an 82% probability of survival of the polytetrafluoroethylene ligament at the 48 month followup. when compared to the same data at a minimum 24 month followup, the results appeared to have deteriorated somewhat over time. three possible "predictors" of failure at later followup were identified: preoperative subjective symptoms of swelling, subjective symptoms of giving way at 2 years, and an increased anterior drawer sign at 2 years.
effect of systemic medetomidine, an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist, on experimental pain in humans. the effect of systemic (intravenous) medetomidine, an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, on pain thresholds was studied in healthy human subjects (n = 6). medetomidine produced a dose-dependent (cumulative doses: 25 and 50 micrograms) sedative effect evaluated by visual analog scale. also, a dose-dependent decrease of blood pressure but not of heart rate was seen after administration of medetomidine. pain threshold to electric stimulation of the tooth pulp and cutaneous heat pain threshold were uninfluenced by medetomidine. an index of cutaneous thermal sensitivity to innocuous stimuli, the width of the thermoneutral zone, also was uninfluenced by medetomidine. medetomidine produced a significant attenuation of the affective-motivational component (unpleasantness) of tourniquet-induced ischemic pain, whereas the sensory-discriminative component (pain magnitude estimate) of the ischemic pain was not attenuated. the results suggest that systemic medetomidine alone at subanesthetic but sedative and hypotensive doses does not significantly influence the intensity and thresholds of experimental pain, whereas the affective-motivational component of pain can be attenuated.
an unusual complication of cardiac transplantation--infected aortic pseudoaneurysm. infections after cardiac transplantation are a frequent cause of early morbidity and mortality. an unusual site for such a complication is at the aortic anastomotic suture line. we report a case of an infected aortic pseudoaneurysm, seen as recurrent septicemia, during the first 6 months after cardiac transplantation.
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome after first rib resection. seventy-seven patients with 84 operated limbs participated in a follow-up examination on an average of about six years after the resection of the first rib for thoracic outlet syndrome (tos). forty-two limbs (50%) were totally asymptomatic one month after the operation and remained so for at least half a year postoperatively. in the follow-up examination, 31 limbs were still asymptomatic, whereas 11 limbs had the same symptoms as before the operation. of the nine patients with recurrent tos (two with bilateral resection), seven were women and two were men. these nine patients were on average 38 years old (range = 19 to 51 years) and their jobs consisted of monotonous desk work. seven of 11 stumps of the first rib were subluxated disclosed by the cervical rotation-lateral-flexion test. the occurrence of a subluxated stump of the first rib in the group of asymptomatic patients was far lower, only 3% (p less than .001). of the 42 patients with persistent problems, a subluxated stump was encountered in seven (17%). results of this follow-up examination suggest that monotonous desk work is an important factor causing kinesiologic abnormalities in the thoracic aperture. this abnormal kinesiology contributes to the recurrence of tos symptoms even after the resection of the first rib.
tumors of the shoulder girdle. technique of resection and description of a surgical classification. limb-sparing surgery is safe and reliable for most bone and soft-tissue tumors of the shoulder girdle. eighty to ninety percent of patients with high-grade sarcomas of the shoulder can be safely treated by the various surgical techniques described. attention must be paid to appropriate patient selection, preoperative staging, and planning. in addition, careful skeletal and muscular reconstruction of the surgical defect is necessary for a successful outcome. a new, universal, classification schemata (types i-vi) of shoulder girdle resections has been developed. this classification system is based on the bones resected, the status of the abductor mechanism, and the relationship to the glenohumeral joint. this system permits easy description and comparison of the various limb-sparing procedures performed.
the effect of dopexamine hcl upon collateral perfusion of the acutely ischemic myocardium in anesthetized dogs. the effects of low-dose (10(-9) and 3 x 10(-9) mole/kg/min) infusions of dopexamine hcl, a new synthetic catecholamine with beta 2-adrenergic and da1-dopaminergic agonostic actions, was tested in anesthetized dogs, with and without acute ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. the infusions caused diastolic arterial blood pressure to fall by 12 +/- 4 and 23 +/- 5 mmhg, respectively. microsphere-estimated collateral blood flow to the ischemic myocardium did not change significantly during the drug infusions. the findings suggest that low doses of dopexamine hcl do not cause coronary "steal" from acutely ischemic myocardium.
effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on neutropenia due to chemotherapy for non-hodgkin's lymphoma. the authors administered recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhg-csf) to 16 patients with advanced non-hodgkin's lymphoma treated with combination chemotherapy. groups of three to five patients were treated with 50, 100, 200, and 400 micrograms/m2 per day of rhg-csf by intravenous infusion for 14 days, beginning 3 days after chemotherapy. there was a strong linear relationship between the dose and the area under the curve over this dose range. the rhg-csf was rapidly cleared from serum, with a mean half-life of 5.97 hours for the second phase (t1/2). in patients treated with a dose of more than 100 micrograms/m2 per day, the duration of neutropenia (p less than 0.01) and the duration of fever (p less than 0.05) were significantly decreased. the rhg-csf was well tolerated and the only clinical observation that appeared relating to rhg-csf administration was slight bone pain. this study strongly suggests that an optimum dose of rhg-csf in patients after chemotherapy is 100 to 200 micrograms/m2. our study shows that rhg-csf is a clinically useful drug for patients treated with myelosuppressive chemotherapy.
sotalol versus quinidine for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of atrial fibrillation this open, parallel-group study compares quinidine and sotalol treatment for maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. the patients from 15 centers in sweden were randomized to sotalol (98 patients) or quinidine (85 patients) after 2 hours of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion. according to primary efficacy assessment, 52% of the patients in the sotalol group and 48% of the patients in the quinidine group remained in sinus rhythm during the following 6-month treatment period (ns). furthermore, 34% of the patients treated with sotalol and 22% of the patients treated with quinidine relapsed into atrial fibrillation (ns). heart rate after relapsing into atrial fibrillation was higher in the patients treated with quinidine (109 beats/min) than in the patients treated with sotalol (78 beats/min, p less than 0.001). patients treated with sotalol were found to be less symptomatic at the time of relapse compared with relapsing patients in the quinidine group. in terms of safety, more patients were withdrawn from quinidine than from sotalol treatment (26% vs. 11%, p less than 0.05), and sotalol was generally better tolerated than quinidine. twenty-eight percent of the patients treated with sotalol and 50% of the patients treated with quinidine reported side effects (p less than 0.01). the difference was primarily a result of early (within the first month of treatment) gastrointestinal and skin side effects in the group of patients treated with quinidine.
comparison of methods for checking surgical margins. surgical margins of a cutaneous neoplasm can be evaluated by various combinations of three major types of sections: vertical (perpendicular), horizontal (parallel), and oblique (mohs method). vertical sections may run transversely through tumor (breadloaf method), longitudinally through tumor (breadloaf-cross method), or peripheral to the tumor. the peripheral (perimeter) sectioning methods are the only methods that can evaluate almost 100% of the margin, but they have the disadvantage of not showing the relationship of the tumor to its margin, which can be seen clearly with the vertical transverse sections. seven methods of checking surgical margins are compared and contrasted. none of these is judged to be perfect or best.
economic barriers to the use of oral rehydration therapy. a case report diarrheal dehydration is a highly prevalent condition among young children and is readily prevented and treated with oral rehydration therapy. we report a death due to hypernatremic dehydration caused by rotavirus diarrhea of a 9-month-old infant whose mother attempted to purchase oral glucose-electrolyte solution in a pharmacy but was unable to afford it. while efforts such as the national ort project should help to promote the proper at-home treatment of this condition, we conclude that oral rehydration therapy will not be used optimally by the parents of children living in poverty until the economic barriers to its use are removed.
vitamin e supplementation and periventricular hemorrhage in the newborn. in a randomized controlled trial preterm babies received 20 mg vitamin e/kg im soon after birth (day 0) and at 24 and 48 h. the mean +/- sd plasma vitamin e level on day 0 was identical in supplemented and control groups (9.98 +/- 4.88 mumol/l) and rose progressively only in supplemented babies reaching a peak of 69.2 +/- 21.36 mumol/l at 72 h. supplemented babies had a lower incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage (ivh) diagnosed by ultrasound (9/102, 8.8%) than the control group (37/108, 34.3%; 95% ci for difference in incidence, 15-36%). in a subsequent uncontrolled study using the same vitamin e preparation, a single dose of 20 mg/kg was given soon after birth to preterm babies. the peak mean +/- sd plasma level was 32.97 +/- 13.47 mumol/l at 48 h. the incidence of ivh (16/121, 13.2%) was lower than in historical control from the randomized trial (95% ci for difference; 10.2-31.8%) in spite of the single-dose group having more clinical risk factors for ivh. we conclude that vitamin e protects against ivh in preterm babies.
substance p, acetylcholinesterase, and beta-endorphin levels in the plasma and pericardial fluid of patients with and without angina pectoris. we measured substance p-like immunoreactivity (spli), beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (beli), acetylcholinesterase activity, and total protein content in pericardial fluid and plasma of patients with angina pectoris and patients with no angina pectoris. spli and beli levels, acetylcholinesterase activity, and total protein content were determined by radioimmunoassay, a colorimetric method, and by the method of lowry et al. (j biol chem 1951; 193:265-75), respectively. in the pericardial fluid, patients with angina had spli, beli, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values of 1.69 +/- 0.23 fmol/mg protein, 0.16 +/- 0.13 fmol/mg protein, 0.06 +/- 0.02 units, and 25.7 +/- 3.2 mg/ml, respectively. patients with no angina had spli, beli, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values of 0.93 +/- 0.17 fmol/mg protein, 0.19 +/- 0.10 fmol/mg protein, 0.16 +/- 0.02 units, and 44.6 +/- 5.3 mg/ml, respectively. spli levels were significantly higher (p less than 0.03), and acetylcholinesterase (less than 0.002) and total protein content (less than 0.004) were significantly lower in the pericardial fluid of patients with angina when compared with those of patients with no angina. beli levels were not significantly different between the two groups. in the plasma, no significant differences were found in spli, beli, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values between the two groups of patients. patients with angina had spli, beli, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values of 0.47 +/- 0.26 fmol/mg protein, 0.06 +/- 0.06 fmol/mg protein, 0.29 +/- 0.15 units, and 68.2 +/- 8.7 mg/ml, respectively.
hypoglycemia, hypotonia, and cardiomyopathy: the evolving clinical picture of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency. inherited defects in fatty acid oxidation, which have been described and diagnosed with increasing frequency in the last decade, are most commonly attributed to a deficiency in the activity of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase. few cases of the related enzyme defect of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase activity have been reported. an infant with documented long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency is described with a detailed metabolic profile, long-term clinical follow-up, and response to treatment. this patient is compared with the seven previously published cases of this disorder in order to stress the unique features of the initial presentation, more subtle late manifestations of the disease, and clinical and biochemical differentiation from the more common medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency. this report stresses the enlarging spectrum of the clinical presentation and natural history of this defect in fatty acid oxidation.
long-term follow-up of patients after transcatheter direct current ablation of the atrioventricular junction. the long-term follow-up study (41 +/- 23 months) of 47 patients undergoing direct current ablation because of drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias is reported. significant early complications occurred in four patients and included hypotension, pericarditis, nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and one sudden death. in 42 patients (86%), complete atrioventricular (av) block was initially achieved. during the follow-up period, av conduction resumed in 2 of these 42 patients. of the seven patients in whom ablation was unsuccessful, two developed late complete av block and three had symptomatic improvement. an improved activity level was reported among 83% of the patients with successful ablation. health care utilization manifest as the number of hospital admissions per year before and after ablation decreased significantly after ablation (2.4 +/- 2.0 versus 0.3 +/- 0.5, p less than 0.001). echocardiographic evaluation in five patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (27 +/- 7%) before ablation showed a significant increase (45 +/- 14%, p less than 0.05) after an average follow-up period of 31 months. new onset of congestive heart failure occurred after ablation in four patients, of whom two had no structural heart disease. the total mortality rate, including the one patient with sudden death, was 17% and was significantly higher among patients with underlying structural heart disease. transcatheter direct current ablation is an effective treatment in patients with drug-resistant supraventricular tachycardia, providing a beneficial long-term outcome including an improved quality of life and a decrease in health care utilization.
adenomatous polyp of the fallopian tube. a case report. benign epithelial lesions of the fallopian tube are rare. an adenomatous polyp of the fallopian tube was discovered incidentally at laparotomy.
autograft versus allograft for benign lesions in children. benign bone lesions in children are often so large in size that there is not an adequate amount of bone available for an autograft to fill the resultant cavity after surgical curettage. this study compared autografts and allografts with respect to the time required and the success of graft incorporation. fifty-four patients with 61 lesions were studied. lesions were classified as small volume (less than 60 cc) or large volume (more than 60 cc) and were separated into four groups: small-volume autograft, large-volume autograft, small-volume allograft, and large-volume allograft. allografts appeared comparable to autografts when small-volume lesions were treated. the healing time was slightly longer for allografts with an average period of 21 months versus 27 months for autografts. autografts were superior to allografts in rate and completeness of healing for solitary large lesions. this increased efficacy presumes a somewhat older child in which an adequate amount of bone is available for an autograft. a young child with multicentric or polyostotic lesions can still achieve successful incorporation with allografts. in this study, 38% healed completely and 29% healed partially. allografts have a distinct place in the treatment of benign bone lesions in children.
treatment of manifest and impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck by cemented hemiarthroplasty. thirty-four patients with manifest or impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck were treated between 1971 and 1987. breast carcinoma was the primary tumor in the majority of patients. all patients were treated with cemented hemiarthroplasty. twenty-seven patients (79%) could walk at an average of nine days postoperatively. all patients experienced relief of pain. two superficial wound dehiscences, one loosening of the prosthesis, and two prosthetic dislocations were encountered. mean survival was 17.6 months overall (12 months for manifest fractures and 40 months for impending fractures). these results indicate that cemented hemiarthroplasty for pathologic fractures is a safe procedure resulting in long-lasting palliation without necessitating postoperative irradiation. the importance of tumor excochleation and the advantages of bone cement are emphasized.
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors: the value of early diagnosis. the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved. the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function. in general, conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent. thus, excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis. this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients. adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms, clinical signs, and related diagnosis. our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors. diagnostic guidelines are proposed.
atenolol in essential hypertension during pregnancy objective--to determine the effect of atenolol on the outcome of pregnancy in women with essential hypertension. design--prospective, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled study. setting--hospital clinic. patients--33 women with mild essential hypertension (systolic blood pressure 140-170 mm hg or diastolic pressure 90-110 mm hg on two occasions at least 24 hours apart) consecutively referred to two obstetric medical clinics. four patients in the placebo group were withdrawn from the study: control of blood pressure was inadequate in two, one developed breathlessness, and one changed her mind about participating. the mean gestation in the 29 remaining women on entry to the study was 15.9 weeks. main outcome measures--blood pressure and birth weight. intervention--14 women received placebo. 15 women received atenolol 50 mg daily initially, increasing until either the blood pressure was less than 140/90 mm hg or a dose of 200 micrograms daily was reached. results--the mean blood pressure on entry was 148/86 mm hg in the group given atenolol and 144/86 mm hg in the group given placebo. during treatment the mean diastolic pressure was significantly reduced by atenolol compared with placebo (to 74 v 81 mm hg; difference in means (95% confidence interval) 7.0 (2.9 to 10.0) mm hg) but the effect on systolic pressure was marginal (132 v 136 mm hg; 4.0 (-1.4 to 8.6) mm hg). babies in the atenolol group had a significantly lower birth weight than those in the placebo group (2620 g v 3530 g; 910 (440 to 1380)g). conclusion--atenolol given from the end of the first trimester in patients with mild hypertension is associated with intrauterine growth retardation. when taken in conjunction with the results of a previous study in which methyldopa was given these findings indicate that benefit is unlikely to result from treating mild essential hypertension in pregnancy.
initial results with slightly modified kock pouch. my initial experience with 20 patients undergoing kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed. the procedure has been slightly modified from that described by kock and skinner. all patients have been followed for at least four months (median, 33 months). there have been no early complications related to the pouch. the most significant problem, incontinence, has occurred in 2 patients (10%) at three and four months, respectively, after surgery. only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance. leakage was due, in both cases, to a patulous efferent nipple valve. both were repaired by plication of the nipple, and no new efferent limbs were constructed. in 1 patient (5%) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery. stones have developed in 3 patients (15%). all patients are currently continent and stone-free, and all are pleased with the result.
a chance to cut is a chance to cure? fifty-seven patients underwent local excision of an invasive distal rectal cancer as an initial operative procedure with curative intent. five-year survival was 82.5%, and the rectal cancer specific mortality rate was only 10.5%. the level of wall invasion, vascular permeation, tumor ulceration, mobility, and differentiation were the criteria studied for prognosis. poor prognostic factors included mucinous cell differentiation and full thickness invasion, and in these cases, abdominoperineal resection was recommended. none of the 27 patients without these adverse prognostic factors died from rectal cancer. the other factors did not appear to influence the outcome, and local excision of distal rectal cancer would be the treatment of choice in such selected patients.
effects of local reduction in pressure on distensibility and composition of cerebral arterioles. this study examined effects of local reductions in mean and pulse pressures on cerebral arterioles in normotensive wistar-kyoto rats (wky) and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (shrsp). wky and shrsp underwent clipping of one carotid artery at 1 month of age. at 10-12 months of age, mechanics of pial arterioles were examined in vivo in anesthetized rats. bilateral craniotomies were performed to expose pial arterioles in the sham and clipped cerebral hemispheres. stress-strain relations were calculated from measurements of pial arteriolar pressure (servo null), diameter, and cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall. point counting stereology was used to quantitate individual components in the arteriolar wall. before deactivation of smooth muscle with edta, mean (pm) and pulse (pp) pressures were significantly less (p less than 0.05) in clipped than in sham arterioles in wky (pm, 63 +/- 2 versus 73 +/- 2 mm hg; pp, 23 +/- 3 versus 30 +/- 3 mm hg) and shrsp (pm, 94 +/- 4 versus 110 +/- 4 mm hg; pp, 27 +/- 2 versus 38 +/- 3 mm hg). cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall was less (p less than 0.05) in clipped than in sham arterioles in both groups of rats (1,403 +/- 125 versus 1,683 +/- 125 microns2 in wky; 1,436 +/- 72 versus 1,926 +/- 134 microns2 in shrsp). there was a correlation between cross-sectional area of the vessel wall and pulse pressure (r2 = 0.66), but not mean pressure (r2 = 0.09). during maximal dilatation with edta, the stress-strain curve was shifted to the left in clipped arterioles of shrsp, but not of wky, which indicates that carotid clipping in shrsp reduces passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles. the proportion of distensible components in the vessel wall (smooth muscle, elastin, and endothelium) was reduced in clipped arterioles in shrsp, but not in wky. these findings suggest that 1) vascular hypertrophy of cerebral arterioles is related more closely to pulse pressure than to mean pressure, and 2) reduction of pial arteriolar pressure completely prevents cerebral vascular hypertrophy and attenuates increases in passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles in shrsp.
infusion of a stable prostacyclin analogue, iloprost, to patients with peripheral vascular disease: lack of antiplatelet effect but risk of thromboembolism. purpose: prostacyclin, a potent inhibitor of platelet function and vasodilator, has been used to treat peripheral vascular disease. the aim of this study was to monitor the thrombotic status of patients treated by infusion of a stable prostacyclin analogue, iloprost. patients and methods: thirteen patients with peripheral vascular disease underwent iloprost infusion for 3 days (8 hours each day) in a dose ranging from 0.5 to 2 ng/kg/minute. variable parameters of thrombosis such as platelet reactivity (shear-induced hemostatic plug formation and thrombus formation on a collagen fiber), coagulation, and spontaneous thrombolysis (dislodgment of hemostatic plugs) were measured from non-anticoagulated blood samples by hemostatometry immediately before and 1 hour after the infusion and on the last day, 4 hours after initiation of the infusion. results: analysis of data from all patients 1 hour after the infusion showed no changes in platelet reactivity and spontaneous thrombolysis, but coagulation was significantly enhanced. in four patients, significant platelet hyperreactivity was observed after the infusion. four of the five patients tested while undergoing iloprost infusion showed an enhanced thrombotic reaction and markedly enhanced coagulation. iloprost employed in vitro in a concentration that corresponds to the therapeutic peak blood level caused no inhibition of platelet function but significantly enhanced coagulation. the threshold in vitro iloprost concentration at which anti-platelet effect and increased spontaneous thrombolysis were observed was twice that of the therapeutic blood level. conclusions: these findings challenge the view that antagonism of platelet function is an important factor of iloprost therapy. furthermore, platelet hyperreactivity in some patients and markedly enhanced coagulation during and after infusion of iloprost in general, represent a risk of thromboembolism, especially as patients are already in a prethrombotic condition.
streamlined approach to creating yeast artificial chromosome libraries from specialized cell sources. the study of tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities has been severely impeded by an inability to link cytogenetic to molecular data. restriction fragment length polymorphism mapping of any particular chromosomal rearrangement to the resolution limit of genetic methodology generates sets of probes that frequently are still too widely spaced to render the rearrangement breakpoints accessible to molecular isolation. the stable propagation of genomic fragments of up to one million base pairs in size as yeast artificial chromosomes (yacs) represents an important development in this regard. however, existing yac libraries have been made from karyotypically normal sources making the localization and cloning of specific rearrangement breakpoints much more difficult. as a solution to this problem, we present an improved method for creating yac libraries that can utilize specialized tumor-derived materials and that can be executed effectively in a small laboratory setting. procedures that enabled more consistent dna insert size selection and enhanced yeast transformation frequency were employed to generate a human yac library from a neuroepithelioma cell line containing a characteristic t(11;22) chromosomal translocation. approximately 40,000 colonies with an average insert size of 330 kilobase pairs were created. this library was screened with two single-copy probes that bracket the translocation breakpoint. yac clones ranging from 370 to 550 kilobase pairs that were specific for each single-copy probe were identified. specialized yac libraries will make many more tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities accessible to molecular isolation.
gastric adaptive relaxation and symptoms after vagotomy. gastric adaptive relaxation is reported to be impaired after vagotomy. this abnormality has been implicated in the pathogenesis of postvagotomy symptoms, but no association has previously been demonstrated between the two. gastric adaptive relaxation was measured in 15 healthy volunteers and 33 patients more than 1 year after highly selective vagotomy or truncal vagotomy and drainage. seventeen patients were asymptomatic. the remainder were symptomatic including seven patients with persistent diarrhoea. fasted subjects were intubated with a ryle's tube containing a pressure microtransducer within a flaccid (800 ml) plastic bag. gastric corpus-fundus pressure was recorded during distension of the bag with air (15 ml/s) over 30 s. pressure indices were derived from the areas under the pressure curves. median (range) pressure indices were: healthy volunteers 12.7 (7.5-17.1) cmh2o, highly selective vagotomy 14.0 (9.8-15.9) cmh2o (n.s.), truncal vagotomy and drainage 14.5 (8.6-26.8) cmh2o (p = 0.04). all patients with diarrhoea had abnormally high pressure indices (p less than 0.001). pressure indices in all other patient groups were within the normal range. we conclude that gastric adaptive relaxation remains abnormal in patients with postvagotomy diarrhoea but not in those who are asymptomatic or who have other symptoms.
characterization of cytokines present in middle ear effusions. retention of inflammatory mediators and cells in the middle ear cleft during chronic otitis media with effusion (come), results in ongoing inflammation with the potential for pathologic changes and hearing loss. cytokines are glycoproteins produced by macrophages and other cells. activities of cytokines include fever production, osteoclast, fibroblast, phagocyte and cytotoxic cell activation, regulation of antibody formation, and inhibition of cartilage, bone and endothelial cell growth. using enzyme-linked immunospecific assays we measured levels of six cytokines in middle ear effusions (mee) from children with come. significant levels of four cytokines: interleukin-1-beta (greater than 50 pg/ml), interleukin-2 (greater than 300 pg/ml), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (greater than 40 pg/ml), and gamma-interferon (greater than 6.25 pg/ml) were found in 51%, 54%, 63%, and 19% of mee, respectively. in contrast, levels of a fifth cytokine, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, and a sixth cytokine, interleukin-4, were undetectable. age was observed to have a significant effect on the levels of specific cytokines. interleukin-1 (il-1) correlated inversely (p less than .02) with age such that the younger the child, the higher the level of il-1 in mee. tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf) correlated directly (p less than .005) with age such that the older the child, the higher the level of tnf in mee. children undergoing tympanostomy on multiple occasions had average mee tnf levels (234.2 +/- 109.1 pg/mg total protein) that were nearly 14 times higher (p less than .005) than those from children undergoing their first tympanostomy (16.9 +/- 3.0 pg/mg total protein). thus il-1 correlated with the early stages of come, while tnf correlated with persistence of disease. the presence of these cytokines in mee may be responsible for the mucosal damage, bone erosion, fibrosis, and resulting hearing loss seen in some cases of come.
duodenal-caval fistula. duodenal-caval fistula is a rare, often lethal disease that requires prompt diagnosis and surgical correction. a case of duodenal-caval fistula due to duodenal ulceration is presented and discussed.
should urologists wear spectacles for transurethral resection of the prostate? contamination of the eyes by irrigation fluid during transurethral resection (tur) of the prostate was assessed by measuring droplet splashes on to spectacles worn by 2 surgeons. during 30 consecutive operations, droplet splash contamination occurred during every procedure. the number of splashes increased with time. the use of spectacles during tur will reduce the risks of eye contamination from droplet splashes and therefore the possibility of transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus from infected patients.
complications of percutaneous abdominal fine-needle biopsy. review. to determine whether the increasing use of percutaneous fine-needle biopsy of abdominal lesions is associated with an increase in serious complications, the author updated a literature search and evaluated a questionnaire (distributed among selected hospitals in the united states in 1986 and 1987) that followed up a questionnaire distributed in 1983. the updated literature review revealed a total of 24 deaths and 20 needle tract seedings. the updated questionnaire revealed five deaths after 16,381 biopsies (0.031%), whereas the previous questionnaire had shown four deaths after 63,108 biopsies (0.006%). two similar european questionnaires revealed mortality rates of 0.008% and 0.018%, respectively. of the total of 33 deaths, 21 involved biopsies of liver lesions; six involved pancreatic biopsies. seventeen of the 21 deaths after liver biopsies were secondary to hemorrhage; five of the six deaths after pancreatic biopsies were due to pancreatitis. of the 23 instances of needle tract seeding, 10 occurred after biopsies of pancreatic malignancies. the frequencies of needle tract seeding in the four questionnaires were 0.005%, 0.006%, 0.003%, and 0.009%, respectively. although infrequent, serious complications may be associated with this procedure. the author makes suggestions that may help minimize them.
natural death as viewed by the medical examiner: a review of 1000 consecutive autopsies of individuals dying of natural disease. a study of 1000 consecutive autopsies of individuals dying of natural disease was conducted. cardiovascular disease was responsible for 60.9% of all deaths with coronary artery disease--not only the main cause of cardiovascular death but also the main cause of all natural deaths--accounting for 45.1% of such cases. diseases of the central nervous and respiratory systems accounted for 8.7 and 8.6%, respectively, of the natural deaths. seizure disorders and pneumonia were the main causes of death in these organ systems. there were 124 deaths of children less than one year in age, 91 of which were due to sudden infant death syndrome (sids). all of the sids deaths were in children less than 10 months old.
incidence and survival rates of children and young adults with osteogenic sarcoma. gender-specific and race-specific incidence and survival rates of osteogenic sarcoma over a 14-year period are presented for persons aged 0 to 24 years from eight surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (seer) registries. they were no significant gender or racial differences in age at diagnosis. there was no significant gender difference in overall incidence. although incidence rates were slightly higher in blacks compared with whites, the difference was not significant after controlling for multiple comparisons. females (median, 74 months) survived longer than males (median, 29 months), although this difference weakened after controlling for stage. no racial differences in survival were observed. white females survived the longest (median, 94 months), followed by black females (median, 41 months), black males (median, 34 months), and white males (median, 29 months). this striking difference in survival should be explored more fully.
laparoscopic ventrosuspensions. a review of 72 cases. laparoscopic ventrosuspension is simple to perform after diagnostic laparoscopy. serious postoperative complication is unlikely. however, patient follow-up over 6 months has not confirmed the usefulness of laparoscopic ventrosuspension in the management of deep dyspareunia or pelvic pain in association with a retroverted uterus. the success rate of laparoscopic ventrosuspension at 6 months varies from 18.6% to 46.5%. the prior use of a hodge pessary does not predict the success of laparoscopic ventrosuspension.
deletion of alu sequences in the fifth c-sis intron in individuals with meningiomas. an abnormality in the c-sis protooncogene was identified in leukocyte dna from members of a family predisposed to the development of meningioma, and was found to be associated with the development of the tumor in those individuals. molecular analysis of this abnormality demonstrated a deletion within the fifth intron of the c-sis gene. the normal c-sis gene has an alu sequence in this region which includes two perfect 130 nucleotide repeated sequences separated by 5 bp. the deleted c-sis allele is missing precisely one copy of the 130 bp repeat and the intervening 5 bp. an identical deletion was also found in dna from 1 of 13 sporadic meningiomas.
detection of duodenal gastrinomas by operative endoscopic transillumination. a prospective study. the ability of operative endoscopic transillumination of the bowel wall to detect duodenal gastrinoma was evaluated prospectively in 26 patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome. the results were assessed by exploratory laparotomy and compared with the results of other localization techniques. twelve duodenal gastrinomas were resected from 10 patients. operative endoscopic transillumination detected 10 of the 12 gastrinomas, a sensitivity of 83%, which was significantly greater (p less than 0.05) than that for either preoperative imaging (25%) or intraoperative ultrasonography and palpation (42%). the sensitivity of operative endoscopic transillumination was a result of the ability to detect focal areas that did not transilluminate on the serosal side of the duodenum, and not the mucosal appearances seen through the endoscope, which were not helpful. operative endoscopic transillumination detected gastrinomas less than 1 cm in diameter throughout the duodenum. of the patients in this study, 39% had duodenal gastrinomas, a greater frequency than previously reported. these results indicate that operative endoscopic transillumination is the most sensitive technique yet described for detecting duodenal gastrinomas and should be performed routinely in all patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome who undergo exploratory laparotomy for cure.
does age affect outcomes of out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation? we examined the relation between age and outcomes in patients treated for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in seattle, wash. considering all out-of-hospital cardiac arrests treated by paramedics over a recent 5-year period, 386 (27%) of 1405 consecutive patients aged 70 years or older were resuscitated and admitted to a hospital vs 474 (29%) of 1624 younger patients; 140 elderly patients (10%) were discharged alive vs 223 younger patients (14%). of the 140 elderly patients, 112 went home and 28 went to a nursing home. considering only patients whose initial rhythms were ventricular fibrillation, the percent of patients discharged alive was substantially higher: 120 (24%) of 493 for elderly patients and 194 (30%) of 639 for younger patients. elderly patients can benefit from attempted resuscitation from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
the surgical management of children with ulcerative colitis. the old vs. the new. the authors' experience with children who have chronic ulcerative colitis was reviewed to compare their current surgical approach (ileoanal anastomosis) with earlier methods of management. between 1960 and 1984, 137 children with chronic ulcerative colitis underwent surgery (mean duration of follow-up, 7.1 years). in 91 patients, the procedures were a total proctocolectomy with ileostomy or kock pouch (66) or a lesser colectomy with either an ileostomy (16) or an ileorectal anastomosis (9) (group i). forty-six patients underwent an ileoanal anastomosis procedure (group ii). children in group i were more likely to have significant preoperative loss of weight, a debilitated condition, and malnutrition. urgent or emergency surgical intervention was required in 25 percent of patients in group i but in only 4 percent of patients in group ii. trends included 1) a younger age at operation in group ii, 2) a higher mortality in group i (7.7 percent) than group ii (0 percent), and 3) a higher perioperative mortality with emergency operations (23 percent) than elective procedures (1.6 percent). in group i, 98 percent of patients had an abdominal ostomy, but no patients in group ii had an abdominal ostomy. the children with an ileoanal anastomosis had an average of 4.8 stools during waking hours and 1.3 stools each night. on the basis of this experience, the authors recommend use of the ileoanal anastomosis procedure in the surgical treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis in children.
borderzone hemodynamics in cerebrovascular disease. to investigate the possible existence of chronic selective hemodynamic impairment in the arterial borderzone regions of the brain, we used positron emission tomography (pet) to measure regional mean vascular transit time (rt, equal to the ratio of regional cerebral blood volume to cerebral blood flow) and regional oxygen extraction fraction (roef) in 32 patients with either severe internal carotid artery stenosis or occlusion and 11 normal controls. twenty-four of the patients had had tias or amaurosis fugax from 1 to 60 days before pet; all had normal brain ct. we used a stereotactic localization method to locate the anterior and posterior borderzone regions of the middle cerebral artery (mca) territory. we then calculated ratios of each borderzone to the ipsilateral mca territory for both rt and roef. there was no significant difference from control ratios in any patient subgroup including those with greater than or equal to 75% stenosis or occlusion, those with or without contralateral greater than or equal to 50% stenosis, or those with abnormal hemodynamics in the mca territory. we therefore found no evidence for selective borderzone hemodynamic impairment in this group of patients with severe carotid artery disease.
significance of magnetic resonance imaging in acute head injury. one hundred seventy-seven patients who had incurred head trauma were studied with magnetic resonance imaging (mri). patients varied from those with mild injury without any focal neurological deficit to those with severe injury with post-traumatic coma. altogether, 177 lesions were demonstrated by mri in 123 of 177 patients within 3 days of injury using t2-weighted (se2000/40,2000/111) and t1-weighted (ir1500/500/40) multislice sequences. in contrast, computerized tomography (ct) demonstrated 103 lesions in 90 patients. mri was superior to ct in the diagnosis of nonhemorrhagic contusions demonstrated as a high-intensity area on t2-weighted imaging. mri provided some information to evaluate the severity of diffuse axonal injury or to predict delayed traumatic intracerebral hematoma (dtich).
hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children. a serious hazard of undercooked beef. hemolytic-uremic syndrome is the leading cause of acute renal failure in childhood. its incidence in north america is increasing. escherichia coli o157:h7 is the most common infectious trigger and is spread by contaminated beef products as well as from person to person. antibiotics or antidiarrheal medications should not be used in the treatment of e coli hemorrhagic colitis or hemolytic-uremic syndrome. mortality in children with the syndrome has fallen to less than 10% in north america, largely because of careful attention to nutrition, maintenance of a normal fluid and electrolyte balance, and careful monitoring. education and emotional support of the family are important aspects of the treatment program.
patients' observations of bioprosthetic valve failure: "my heart is honking, doctor". audible cardiac murmurs are uncommon and may indicate severe native valve dysfunction. in six patients with bioprosthetic mitral valves audible honking systolic murmurs suddenly developed. doppler echocardiography showed characteristic striated regurgitant signals. at operation each prosthesis had torn cusps. new audible murmurs and striated doppler signals originating from mitral bioprosthetic valves are indicators of cusp tears. recognition of this is important because early detection of prosthetic valve dysfunction may improve subsequent surgical outcome.
inconsistent response to divalproex sodium in hemichorea/hemiballism. we report 6 patients with hemichorea/hemiballism of vascular origin who were treated with divalproex sodium (depakote). four of 6 responded initially. marked improvement was seen in 2 patients only and in 1 of these hemiballism recurred despite continuing therapy. divalproex sodium is not uniformly effective in the treatment of hemichorea/hemiballism.
does age affect outcomes of out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation? we examined the relation between age and outcomes in patients treated for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in seattle, wash. considering all out-of-hospital cardiac arrests treated by paramedics over a recent 5-year period, 386 (27%) of 1405 consecutive patients aged 70 years or older were resuscitated and admitted to a hospital vs 474 (29%) of 1624 younger patients; 140 elderly patients (10%) were discharged alive vs 223 younger patients (14%). of the 140 elderly patients, 112 went home and 28 went to a nursing home. considering only patients whose initial rhythms were ventricular fibrillation, the percent of patients discharged alive was substantially higher: 120 (24%) of 493 for elderly patients and 194 (30%) of 639 for younger patients. elderly patients can benefit from attempted resuscitation from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
value of electrophysiologic studies in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treated with amiodarone. the relation of electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone to long-term outcome was studied in 35 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hc). indications for electrophysiologic studies were: cardiac arrest (n = 3), syncope/presyncope (n = 27) and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia (vt) (n = 5). twenty-eight patients (80%) had vt, 3 (9%) atrial tachycardia and 3 (9%) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 24-hour holter monitoring. the studies were repeated after a total amiodarone dose of 58 +/- 122 g and during a maintenance median daily dose of 400 mg. amiodarone abolished paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias in all 6 patients. however, it caused marked atrioventricular nodal conduction abnormality in 3 patients and heart block or marked hv interval prolongation (to greater than or equal to 100 ms) in 4 patients. sustained vt was induced in 26 patients (74%) at baseline study and in 23 patients (66%) taking amiodarone therapy. with amiodarone, vt was no longer inducible or was more difficult to induce in 11 patients (31%), and the drug abolished vt during holter monitoring in all patients. however, vt was easier to induce with amiodarone or was induced only with amiodarone in 18 (51%) patients. amiodarone significantly slowed the rate of induced vt (from 248 +/- 29 to 214 +/- 37 beats/min, p less than 0.001). this was associated with a change in its morphology from polymorphic to monomorphic vt in 7 patients. during a follow up of 18 +/- 14 months (range 2 to 56), amiodarone was discontinued because of adverse effects in 8 patients (23%).
bleeding gastroesophageal varices: gastric vein embolization after partial portal decompression. shunts that decompress the portal vein are effective in the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices. use of large-caliber portacaval shunts, however, results in the complete decompression of the portal system and the risk of subsequent development of hepatic encephalopathy. use of small-caliber portacaval shunts results in mild portal hypertension and less frequent hepatic encephalopathy but may increase the risk of recurrent bleeding. thirty-three patients underwent angiography after partial decompression portacaval shunting (median trans-shunt pressures, 8 mm hg). embolization of residual varices, noted in 13 patients, was performed. results included one complication with no sequelae and no bleeding a mean of 13 months after the procedure was performed. trans-shunt embolization of esophageal varices effectively prevents bleeding varices after partial portal decompression.
antihypertensive drugs and glucose metabolism: comparison between a diuretic, a beta-blocker and felodipine, a new calcium antagonist in subjects with arterial hypertension and diabetes. felodipine, a new antihypertensive calcium antagonist, was compared with metoprolol, a beta-blocker, and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic, with respect to glucose tolerance in a randomized double-blind cross-over study consisting of 11 patients, of age range 50-70 years, who had developed diabetes during antihypertensive treatment. each treatment period lasted for 10 weeks. the blood pressure was similar irrespective of treatment. serum glucose levels during the oral glucose tolerance test were significantly lower when the patients were treated with felodipine than when they were taking hydrochlorothiazide. serum insulin levels appeared to decrease at an earlier stage of the test when the patients were treated with felodipine, the calcium antagonist, than with the other two antihypertensive substances, which suggests that glucose tolerance is impaired to a lesser extent during treatment with the calcium antagonist. glucose tolerance was never completely normalized with any of the drugs tested.
endocrine function in children with human immunodeficiency virus infection. we sought to determine if failure to thrive in pediatric patients with the human immunodeficiency virus could be explained based on endocrine dysfunction. fourteen human immunodeficiency virus-infected pediatric patients, all of whom had adequate nutritional status, underwent endocrine evaluation. growth hormone and cortisol responses to glucagon stimulation were adequate. despite this, eight of the 12 subjects had low somatomedin c levels. although all patients were clinically and biochemically euthyroid, 36% (5/14) demonstrated elevated baseline and peak thyrotropin levels in response to thyroid releasing hormone, suggesting a state of compensated hypothyroidism. although the importance of these findings is unclear, it is possible that subtle alterations of thyroid regulation may contribute to failure to thrive in some pediatric patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus and may represent a potentially correctable defect.
video display terminals and the risk of spontaneous abortion. background. the relation between spontaneous abortion and the use of video display terminals (vdts) is of great public health concern. previous investigators of this issue have reported inconsistent findings. methods. to determine whether electromagnetic fields emitted by vdts are associated with an increased risk of spontaneous abortion, a cohort of female telephone operators who used vdts at work was compared with a cohort of operators who did not use vdts. to obtain reliable estimates of exposure, we determined the number of hours of vdt use per week from company records and measured electromagnetic fields at vdt workstations and, for purposes of comparison, at workstations without vdts. operators who used vdts had higher abdominal exposure to very-low-frequency (15 khz) electromagnetic fields (workstations without vdts did not emit very-low-frequency energy). abdominal exposure to extremely-low-frequency fields (45 to 60 hz) was similar for both operators who used vdts and those who did not. among 2430 women interviewed, there were 882 pregnancies that met our criteria for inclusion in the study. results. we found no excess risk of spontaneous abortion among women who used vdts during the first trimester of pregnancy (odds ratio = 0.93; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.63 to 1.38), and no dose-response relation was apparent when we examined the women's hours of vdt use per week (odds ratio for 1 to 25 hours per week = 1.04; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.61 to 1.79; odds ratio for greater than 25 hours per week = 1.00; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.61 to 1.64). there continued to be no risk associated with the use of vdts when we accounted for multiple pregnancies, conducted separate analyses of early abortion, late abortion, and all fetal losses, or limited our analyses to spontaneous abortions for which a physician was consulted. conclusions. the use of vdts and exposure to the accompanying electromagnetic fields were not associated with an increased risk of spontaneous abortion in this study.
evaluation of the perforating veins of the lower extremity using high resolution duplex imaging. the purpose of this study was to evaluate duplex imaging as a means of assessing perforating veins in patients with longstanding venous stasis ulceration. thirty patients with nonhealing venous stasis ulcers and twenty normal volunteers serving as controls were evaluated with a standard 8-mhz imaging probe and integrated pulsed doppler. the internal diameter of perforating veins was measured and perforators were grouped into one of four categories based on functional criteria: competent perforator with venous flow (c); incompetent perforator with venous flow (ic); competent perforator with arteriovenous flow (c-avc); incompetent perforator with arteriovenous flow (ic-avc). sixteen of the patients with ulcers were subsequently studied by ascending venography and in 11 patients, intraoperative identification of perforating veins was made during the rob procedure. in this subset of patients the vessel was categorized as competent or incompetent regardless of flow signal. there were significant differences in mean perforator diameter between ulcer patients and normal volunteers. duplex imaging identified 93 perforators and venography a total of 70. in all 16 extremities, duplex imaging made the diagnosis of significant perforating vein incompetence, verified by venography. intraoperative findings demonstrated an excellent correlation with duplex imaging. we believe duplex imaging to be a promising new modality for evaluation of the perforating veins of the lower extremity.
unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid. an unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported. no such case has been reported in the literature. a possible explanation is offered.
intestinal obstruction by distension of a foley jejunostomy catheter. jejunostomies can be effective in permitting postoperative nutritional support, particularly in the patient with complicated gastrointestinal disease. in the case presented, however, distension of the foley balloon catheter, used as the jejunostomy tube, led to intestinal obstruction which was not initially detected. following radiographic identification of the problem, removal of the air from the foley balloon allowed the patient to complete his convalescence from surgery. the possibility of obstruction from the foley jejunostomy catheter should be recognized as a potential problem in the postoperative period.
combined alpha/beta-blockade versus beta 1-selective blockade in essential hypertension in black and white patients. the purpose of this multicenter investigation was to determine the efficacy and safety of the alpha/beta-blocker labetalol versus the beta 1-selective beta-blocker atenolol in white and black patients with essential hypertension. equal numbers of black and white patients were enlisted to form four treatment groups (white patients taking either labetalol or atenolol and black patients taking either labetalol or atenolol). two hundred ninety-two patients (152 white and 140 black patients) with essential hypertension characterized by a standing diastolic blood pressure of 105 to 119 mm hg (inclusive) were recruited for this trial. patients were randomized to either labetalol (dosage titrated from 200 to 1600 mg/day) or atenolol (dosage titrated from 50 to 100 mg/day). the therapeutic goal was achievement of a standing diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm hg or less or a fall of 15 mm hg in diastolic pressure from baseline value at the end of the placebo run in period. at the end of the study there were no significant differences in blood pressure or heart rate changes in the supine position between the labetalol and atenolol groups. in contrast, labetalol produced greater reduction in both the standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (-12/-13 mm hg, respectively) compared with atenolol (-7/-9 mm hg; p less than 0.05; p less than 0.005, respectively). the greatest decrease in blood pressure was observed in white patients receiving labetalol. in black patients the decrease in blood pressure was greater in those treated with labetalol compared with atenolol, particularly with respect to the systolic blood pressure. we conclude that the alpha 1-blocking property of labetalol provides an additional lowering of the blood pressure over that seen with beta 1-blockade alone, especially in the standing position, and this enhanced efficacy is not confined to one radical group.
small nodular lesions in the lung periphery: new approach to diagnosis with ct. to evaluate relationships between lesions in the lung periphery and surrounding structures, particularly vessels and bronchi, axial multiplanar reconstruction (ampr) computed tomography (ct) was used to study 26 patients who underwent surgical resection of pulmonary nodules less than 3 cm in diameter. findings at ampr ct, conventional ct, and digital radiographic tomography were compared with findings obtained at evaluation of the resected specimen with regard to the ability to display the relationships between vessels, bronchi, and lesions. ampr ct was significantly superior to conventional ct and digital radiographic tomography in detecting involvement of pulmonary vessels (p less than .001). involvement of pulmonary veins was seen in all lung cancers, whereas such involvement was seen in only one of eight nonneoplastic lesions. thus, involvement of pulmonary veins is strongly suggestive of malignancy. ampr ct permits three-dimensional visualization and morphologic assessment of pulmonary nodules.
plasma hdl cholesterol concentrations are correlated to bile cholesterol saturation index in the african green monkey. in an attempt to determine if plasma lipoprotein concentrations correlate with the bile cholesterol saturation index in the african green monkey, we have studied a group of adult male animals available from a long-term study investigating the effects of dietary fat and cholesterol on cholesterol metabolism and atherosclerosis. the animals were fed diets containing 0.8 mg cholesterol/kcal or 0.03 mg cholesterol/kcal for five years. within each dietary cholesterol group, animals received 42% of dietary calories as fat, enriched with either saturated or polyunsaturated fat. using stepwise multiple linear regression, high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol concentration was found to be the best plasma lipid predictor of the bile cholesterol saturation index. when the cholesterol saturation index of a fasting gallbladder bile specimen was compared to the plasma hdl cholesterol level for individual animals, a significant positive correlation was noted for animals fed polyunsaturated fat, (r = 0.68) and for animals fed saturated fat (r = 0.72). for any value of hdl cholesterol, however, the cholesterol saturation index was higher in animals fed polyunsaturated fat compared to saturated fat. since plasma hdl cholesterol levels were positively correlated with the bile cholesterol saturation index in adult male african green monkeys, we conclude that a metabolic link exists between plasma hdl cholesterol concentrations and bile cholesterol saturation, perhaps due to enhanced delivery of cholesterol to the liver by hdl.
long-term follow-up of the first 56 patients treated with intracoronary self-expanding stents (the lausanne experience). fifty-six patients treated with the self-expanding intracoronary stent for acute occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) or restenosis were followed for 24 to 43 months (mean 34). successful deployment and positioning were achieved in 55 of 56 patients. occlusion of the stent was documented in 8 patients, the earliest occurring 30 minutes and the latest 8 months after implantation. three of the occluded stents were recanalized by ptca. coronary artery bypass grafts (cabg) were required in 4 patients: 1 for symptomatic restenosis, 1 for left main stenosis adjacent to the stent and 2 for acute ischemia during the in-hospital stay (less than 7 days). myocardial infarction occurred in the territory of the stented vessel in 8 patients. seven patients died between 1 day and 19 months after implantation. local bleeding complications occurred in 10 patients, with 5 requiring blood transfusion. restenosis within the stent was angiographically documented in 5 patients (9%). a new lesion in the treated vessel was found in 10 patients, followed by implantation of a second stent in 5 and a third stent in 1 patient. medical treatment was instituted in the remaining 4 patients. forty-nine patients (88%) are alive. twenty-nine patients (51%) remained asymptomatic, and 44 (78%) are in a better functional class than before the implantation. eleven of 15 (79%) major complications (acute occlusions or deaths) occurred in patients who received a stent in the left anterior descending coronary artery. in conclusion, implantation of the self-expanding intracoronary stent appears to be a new therapeutic option for treating acute occlusion or restenosis after ptca.
heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant wilson's disease. wilson's disease may present with severe acute hepatocellular failure. the only effective treatment for fulminant wilson's disease is liver transplantation, which may lead to reversal of the underlying disease. some patients with cirrhosis who are too ill to undergo orthotopic liver transplantation have been treated with heterotopic liver transplantation. however, use of heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant hepatocellular failure has not been successful. this case study involves a patient in whom a heterotopic liver transplant was successfully used for treatment of wilson's disease presenting with fulminant hepatocellular failure.
endoscopic biopsy has limited accuracy in diagnosis of ampullary tumors. endoscopic biopsy specimens and surgically resected specimens in a collective series of 78 japanese patients with ampullary tumor were retrospectively reviewed to investigate the clinical implications of endoscopic biopsy. endoscopic biopsy specimens were classified into five groups based on the degree of epithelial atypia: group 1 (no atypia), group 2 (mild atypia), group 3 (moderate atypia or adenoma), group 4 (severe atypia or carcinoma in situ), and group 5 (invasive carcinoma). final diagnosis of the 78 resected ampullary tumors was adenoma in five cases, carcinoma in 27 cases, and both adenoma and carcinoma in 46 cases. biopsy accuracy of carcinoma (group 4 or 5) was 70% (51 of 73) overall in 73 carcinoma cases. biopsy accuracy was 50% (7 of 14) in the intramural protruding type, 64% (21 of 33) in the exposed protruding type, and 88% (23 of 26) in the ulcerating type. the diagnostic accuracy of adenoma (group 3) was 80% (4 of 5) in five cases of ampullary adenoma. in 18 (25%) of the 73 carcinoma cases, biopsy diagnosis was adenoma (group 3), whereas carcinoma was found in the deeper layers of surgically resected specimens. biopsy diagnosis of adenoma does not rule out the possibility of deeper carcinoma in ampullary tumors.
eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion. a manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. recently, the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, which is characterized by eosinophilia, myalgias, and several less consistently reported findings. we treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms. twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia, with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88. the remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined. eight patients complained of myalgias. other symptoms included arthralgias, pruritus, cutaneous burning, weakness, fever, rashes, malaise, edema, muscle spasms, and alopecia. 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested. our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases.
ultrasound in the investigation of the right iliac fossa mass. patients presenting with a right iliac fossa (rif) mass are a diagnostic problem. the objective of this study was to assess the role of ultrasound (us) in their investigation. a prospective series of 50 patients presenting with a clinically suspected rif mass was examined by us and the finding correlated with the final diagnosis. there was a positive finding in 34 patients (68%). ultrasound correctly identified the organ of origin in 33 (97%) and was able to guide the patients' further management. in 12 cases no abnormality was found in the rif, of which 11 had no positive findings at follow-up and one was shown to have an unrelated abnormality at laparotomy. in four cases the findings were due to normal variants. ultrasound is the imaging modality of first choice in patients presenting with a rif mass.
fine-needle aspiration in hepatocellular carcinoma. combined cytologic and histologic approach. cytologic features of fine-needle aspiration (fna) of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) have not been well documented. most previous reports described only the the morphologic features of the tumor cells without considering the sinusoidal stroma. cytohistologic correlation on tissue from the same aspirate has rarely been done. this report describes the cytologic patterns of 50 cases of hcc in terms of histologic pattern observed in cell blocks prepared from the same aspiration specimen and classified according to the world health organization (who) classification. tumors were classified according to the predominant pattern. thirty-two cases gave the trabecular pattern. smears could be subdivided into a central-sinusoidal pattern (23 cases) and a peripheral-sinusoidal pattern (nine cases). one case gave the pseudoglandular pattern. seventeen cases gave the compact pattern with inconspicuous sinusoids. in all cases sinusoids were easily recognized in cell block sections. other cytologic features such as intranuclear cytoplasmic inclusions, eosinophilic globules, and bile secretion could be seen in both smears and cell blocks. mallory's hyalin and ground glass inclusions were only recognized in cell blocks. more attention should be paid to the sinusoidal stroma for diagnosis of hcc in fna; cell blocks should be more widely utilized to this effect; cytologic patterns could be classified according to the who histologic classification.
gastrointestinal dysfunction and disaccharide intolerance in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus. because gastrointestinal dysfunction is a major problem in children with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, we utilized breath hydrogen measurements to determine the relationship between disaccharide malabsorption and gastrointestinal dysfunction in hiv-infected children. we found a strong association between lactose intolerance and persistent diarrheal disease in this population (p less than 0.007, mann-whitney u test). we also found evidence of sucrose malabsorption and persistent diarrheal disease in three of the children. extensive microbiologic evaluations failed to reveal an etiologic agent related to the occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms. our findings indicate that disaccharide intolerance is a common occurrence in hiv-infected children with persistent diarrheal disease. careful attention to dietary intake may be required to ameliorate clinical symptoms and to maintain adequate nutrition.
etoposide in acute leukemia. past experience and future perspectives. etoposide as a single agent is active in relapsed and refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (aml), with complete responses (cr) rates of 10% to 25%. the drug has been safely combined with cytarabine, azacytidine, vinca alkaloids, and anthracyclines, inducing remission rates of 20% to 60% in patients with previously treated aml. the experience with etoposide in acute lymphoblastic leukemia is less extensive, but the drug seems to be active in combination with cytarabine or aclacinomycin. in addition, etoposide is combined with cytarabine and anthracyclines for the primary treatment of aml. the response rates thus achieved are comparable with those obtained with standard regimens. a phase i/ii trial was initiated to study the efficacy of the nove combination (mitoxantrone [10 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 5] plus etoposide [100 mg/m2/d for 3, 4, or 5 days] in patients with refractory aml. the results showed that extended duration of etoposide administration is associated with higher cr rates. overall, a cr rate of 43% was achieved in 61 patients. a sequential regimen with idac (idarubicin/cytarabine) and nove was designed for primary treatment of adult patients with aml. cycles of idac or nove are applied depending on response. the results of the pilot study with this strategy were encouraging with 18 of 20 patients achieving cr. further studies are under way to verify the efficacy of this strategy.
conservative surgery and radiation therapy for soft tissue sarcoma of the wrist, hand, ankle, and foot. seventy-eight patients with soft tissue sarcoma (sts) arising in the distal extremities--wrist, hand, finger, ankle, foot, and toe--who were treated with conservation surgery and radiation therapy were studied retrospectively with respect to survival, local recurrence, functional limb preservation, complications, and distant metastasis. after a median follow-up of 7.9 years, actuarial 5-year and 10-year survival rates were 80% and 69%, respectively, and disease-free rates were 61% and 51% at the same times. actuarial local control rates were 80% and 74% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. fifteen patients (19%) had local recurrence, but 12 of these were salvaged. ultimately, 53 patients (68%) retained a normal or fairly normal extremity, six (8%) needed amputation for complications, and 13 (17%) needed amputation to control recurrent disease. the functional outcome was significantly better for patients with upper extremity lesions than for those with lower extremity tumors; even for the latter, this treatment strategy was preferable to amputation. the incidence of hematogenous metastases from distal extremity sarcomas depends on the size of the primary tumor. it was concluded that conservation surgery and radiation therapy (xrt) is an acceptable treatment strategy for sts arising in distal extremities; it yielded a high rate of disease control and functional limb preservation.
propofol infusion for control of status epilepticus. two patients with status epilepticus who were resistant to conventional treatment but responded to propofol infusions are reported. an electroencephalogram confirmed the seizures and their successful treatment.
mhc-restricted recognition of autologous melanoma by tumor-specific cytotoxic t cells. evidence for restriction by a dominant hla-a allele. autologous melanoma-specific ctl recognize a common tumor-associated ag (taa) in the context of hla class i antigens. we have demonstrated that hla-a2 can be a restricting ag and, in t cell lines homozygous for hla-a2, that ctl can be generated by stimulation with hla-a2 allogeneic melanomas. in the current study, we have investigated t cell lines from patients who are heterozygous at hla-a region locus, to determine the relative importance of each a-region allele in this mhc-restricted recognition of tumor. we have shown that hla-a1 can be a restricting ag, and that allogeneic melanomas expressing hla-a1 can substitute for the autologous tumor in the generation of hla-a1-restricted ctl. however, when t cell lines express both hla-a1 and hla-a2, the hla-a2 allele governed restriction of the melanoma taa. three autologous-stimulated hla-a1, a2 ctl lines all demonstrated restriction by the hla-a2 allele, when examined in cytotoxicity assays, cold-competition assays, and proliferation assays. there was no evidence of restriction by the second hla-allele, hla-a1. although the autologous-stimulated ctl use a single a-region allele for tumor recognition, the autologous hla-a1, a2 tumors are lysed by both hla-a1-restricted and hla-a2-restricted ctl. the dominance of restricting alleles was further demonstrated when hla-matched allogeneic melanomas were used as the stimulating tumor to generate tumor-specific ctl. stimulation of the heterozygous (hla-a1, a2) lymphocytes with hla-a2-matched allogeneic melanomas resulted in ctl specific for the autologous tumor, and restricted by the hla-a2 ag. however, stimulation with an hla-a1-matched allogeneic melanoma failed to induce tumor-specific ctl restricted by the hla-a1 ag. the data suggest there is a dominance of hla-a region ag at the level of the t cell, such that only one is restricting in the recognition of the autologous melanoma. at the level of the tumor, however, the taa is expressed in the context of both hla-a region alleles. we can generate specific ctl from lymph node cells or pbl and hla-a region matched allogeneic melanomas; however, because most patients are heterozygous at the hla-a region locus, an understanding of the dominant restricting alleles must be obtained so that an appropriately matched allogeneic melanoma can be selected.
successful treatment of metastatic thymic carcinoma with cisplatin, vinblastine, bleomycin, and etoposide chemotherapy. thymic carcinomas are rare malignant neoplasms of the thymic epithelium that are distinguished from the malignant thymomas by the presence of cytologic atypia. thymic carcinomas may metastasize outside of the thorax and are associated with a very poor prognosis. complete responses of thymic carcinoma to chemotherapy alone have not been reported. a 21-year-old man with metastatic undifferentiated carcinoma of probable thymic origin is presented who achieved a pathologic complete response with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin chemotherapy. additional consolidative chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide was administered. the patient remains disease-free 5 years after diagnosis. cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin chemotherapy appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma.
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community: overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians. as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study, the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community (gric) in 1965 and later. death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths. in 78% of the deaths, the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records. the age- and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population (1639/100,000) was 1.9 times (95% ci 1.7-2.0) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races (878/100,000). in pima males, whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females, the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males, all races. moreover among males 25-34 years of age, the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races. diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59% of u.s. deaths in 1980, but only 19% of gric deaths. by contrast, the age- and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents, 6.5 times for cirrhosis, 7.4 times for homicide, 4.3 times for suicide, and 11.9 times for diabetes. tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima, for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death. the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents, alcoholic cirrhosis, homicide, suicide, diabetes mellitus, and infectious diseases. young pimas, especially the males, should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts. these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations.
myocardial uptake of carbon-11-acetate as an indirect estimate of regional myocardial blood flow. the rate of clearance of myocardial carbon-11 (11c) activity (after the administration of 11c-acetate) has been shown to correlate closely with myocardial oxygen consumption. in the present study, we hypothesized that regional net myocardial uptake of 11c-acetate, which reflects primarily delivery and extraction of tracer, would be markedly flow-dependent and potentially useful as an indirect index of regional myocardial blood flow. in 22 patients with stable coronary artery disease, the regional distribution of early net uptake of 11c-acetate was correlated with estimates of regional myocardial blood flow assessed with oxygen-15-water. the myocardial images of 11c-acetate uptake were of high quality. the correlation between the two approaches was close (r = 0.88) and not affected by the metabolic state of the tissue. thus, in patients with stable coronary artery disease, under resting conditions, direct estimates of myocardial oxygen consumption in relation to the level of delivery of tracer to the tissue can now be obtained by pet with use of a single radiopharmaceutical, 11c-acetate. this approach may prove particularly useful in streamlining clinical protocols designed to assess myocardial oxygen consumption.
neurologic complications of cocaine abuse. the neurologic complications of cocaine toxicity are responsible for a major portion of the morbidity and mortality associated with cocaine. most of the complications appear to be related to the hyperadrenergic state induced by cocaine and may be treated symptomatically. diazepam is the most effective drug for cocaine-induced seizures.
interphase cytogenetics using biotin and digoxigenin labelled probes: iii. increased sensitivity and flexibility for detecting hpv in cervical biopsy specimens and cell lines. a monoclonal antibody to digoxin enabled sandwich techniques to be used for the detection of hybridised digoxigenin labelled probes in cultured cells and paraffin wax sections. this system has greater flexibility than alkaline phosphatase conjugated polyclonal antidigoxigenin antibody and permits the use of alternative detector enzymes, such as horseradish peroxidase and fluorescence labels. the apaap detection system that does not require the use of biotin can also be used in situations where endogenous biotin is a problem. the low level of background staining combined with precise substrate deposition of the amplified peroxidase system gives higher sensitivity and resolution. this permits localisation of closely adjacent chromosomal loci in interphase nuclei. the most sensitive peroxidase based digoxigenin detection system visualises two and a half to 12 copies of human papillomavirus (hpv) per nucleus. this system is also suitable for the analysis of low copy number hpv infection of cervical tissues.
endometriosis. an important condition in clinical gastroenterology. endometriosis, a condition defined by the presence of ectopic endometrium, is a disorder of increasing incidence and a significant cause of gastroenterologic distress in young women. although clinical manifestations vary considerably depending upon the anatomic extent of disease, characteristic abdominal complaints and typical physical findings continue to be associated with misdiagnosis and delayed recognition of gastrointestinal involvement. the authors of this paper review the medical literature concerning endometriosis of the digestive tract--emphasizing modes of presentation, risk factors, diagnostic testing, complications, and therapy. greater familiarity with the disease and heightened awareness of its sequellae are needed and prerequisite to improved medical management.
pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia-eclampsia with the syndrome of hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count: how rapid is postpartum recovery? the rapidity of postpartum disease recovery for severe preeclampsia associated with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count (hellp syndrome) has not been well studied. between january 1980 and march 1989, 158 pregnancies with preeclampsia-eclampsia complicated by hellp syndrome were managed at the university of mississippi medical center. the 70 patients with platelet nadir below 50,000/microl (class 1 hellp syndrome) required as long as 11 days for all members to achieve a platelet recovery concentration of more than 100,000/microl, whereas all 88 gravidas with platelet nadir between 50,000-100,000/microl (class 2 hellp syndrome) exceeded this platelet concentration by the sixth postpartum day, a statistically significant difference (p less than .0001). the interval between delivery and the onset of diuresis (mean +/- sd) was significantly longer in class 1 than in class 2 patients with milder disease (22.7 +/- 18.9 compared with 15.9 +/- 11.1 hours). significantly more postpartum days were required in class 1 than in class 2 hellp parturients for the lactic dehydrogenase (ldh) concentration to decrease below 500 iu/l (4.2 +/- 4.9 compared with 3.2 +/- 2.7 days). no women in the class 2 group required plasma exchange therapy to effect disease arrest and reversal, but 11 of 58 severely ill women in class 1 were treated with this modality. we conclude that the platelet count and ldh serum concentration, as indicators of hellp severity and recovery, are clinically useful tools and that a more protracted postpartum recovery period should be expected for progressively severe expressions of hellp syndrome.
refractory parastomal ulcers: a multidisciplinary approach. chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual. previous reports have implicated infections, fistulas, recurrent inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), pyoderma gangrenosum, and trauma. over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery. eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer. five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations. they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing. the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses (contact dermatitis, eczema, or bullous pemphigoid) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis. these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks. we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy.
evidence that tumor necrosis factor plays a pathogenetic role in the paraneoplastic syndromes of cachexia, hypercalcemia, and leukocytosis in a human tumor in nude mice. recently, we have established a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla (called mh-85) associated with hypercalcemia, leukocytosis, and cachexia in culture. mh-85 tumor cells caused the same paraneoplastic syndromes in tumor-bearing nude mice. we found that there was a sixfold increase in splenic size in mh-85 tumor-bearing mice. this increase paralleled tumor growth and was reversed by surgical removal of the tumor. splenectomy in nude mice 1 wk before or 6 wk after tumor inoculation resulted in a decrease in tumor growth, and impairment of hypercalcemia, leukocytosis, and cachexia. in mh-85 tumor-bearing animals that had been pretreated by splenectomy, intravenous injection of fresh normal spleen cells caused an immediate reversal of leukocytosis, hypercalcemia, and cachexia. since the presence of cachexia in both the patient and the mice carrying the tumor suggested tumor necrosis factor (tnf) may be overproduced, we injected polyclonal neutralizing antibodies raised against murine tnf into tumor-bearing mice. there was a rapid and reproducible decrease in blood ionized calcium, accompanied by suppression of osteoclast activity. no changes in blood ionized calcium were seen in mice injected with normal immune sera. in addition, there was an increase in body weight and decrease in white cell count. plasma immunoreactive tnf was increased almost fourfold in tumor-bearing nude mice compared with control nude mice. although tnf activity was undetectable in mh-85 culture supernatants, cells of the macrophage lineage, including spleen cells, released increased amounts of tnf when cultured with mh-85 tumor-conditioned media. these results suggest that splenic cytokines such as tnf may influence the development of the paraneoplastic syndromes of hypercalcemia, leukocytosis, and cachexia in these animals, as well as tumor growth. they also show that paraneoplastic syndromes may be due to factors produced by normal host cells stimulated by the presence of the tumor.
host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat. animals, chronically treated with alcohol, were inoculated with mycobacteria (bacillus calmette-guerin, 10.2 x 10(6) organisms) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis. before infection, chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin, 71.7% of baseline (p = 0.009). mycobacterial (bacillus calmette-guerin) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417% of baseline in controls and 299% in alcoholics (p less than 0.001). the hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas (mean +/- sem, 81.2 +/- 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 +/- 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls; p less than 0.001). these changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver (54.5 +/- 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 +/- 1.83 in controls; p = 0.0006). this model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver.
a hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with cddp two-route chemotherapy--a case report. massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis. massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ii are reported.
sexually transmitted diseases of the colon, rectum, and anus. the challenge of the nineties. during the past two decades, an explosive growth in both the prevalence and types of sexually transmitted diseases has occurred. up to 55 percent of homosexual men with anorectal complaints have gonorrhea; 80 percent of the patients with syphilis are homosexuals. chlamydia is found in 15 percent of asymptomatic homosexual men, and up to one third of homosexuals have active anorectal herpes simplex virus. in addition, a host of parasites, bacterial, viral, and protozoan are all rampant in the homosexual population. furthermore, the global epidemic of aids has produced a plethora of colorectal manifestations. acute cytomegalovirus ileocolitis is the most common indication for emergency abdominal surgery in the homosexual aids population. along with cryptosporidia and isospora, the patient may present to the colorectal surgeon with bloody diarrhea and weight loss before the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease. other patients may present with colorectal kaposi's sarcoma or anorectal lymphoma, and consequently will be found to have seropositivity for hiv. however, in addition to these protean manifestations, one third of patients with aids consult the colorectal surgeon with either condylomata acuminata, anorectal sepsis, or proctitis before the diagnosis of hiv disease. although aggressive anorectal surgery is associated with reasonable surgical results in some asymptomatic hiv positive patients, the same procedures in aids (symptomatic hiv positive) patients will often be met with disastrous results. it is incumbent upon the surgeon, therefore, to recognize the manifestations of hiv disease and diagnose these conditions accordingly.
tourette syndrome: recent advances. clinical and genetic studies have allowed the limits of tourette syndrome to be broadened. there is now strong evidence that chronic motor tics and tourette syndrome are different manifestations of an autosomal dominant gene with high penetrance. a genetic link with obsessive-compulsive disorder also appears to have been established. up to 10% of cases of tourette syndrome may be nongenetic phenocopies, however. there is also an association between tourette syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. this complicates therapy, as psychostimulant drugs may precipitate or exacerbate tics in some individuals. a high proportion of patients with tourette syndrome also has neuropsychological deficits and learning disabilities. the pathophysiology is incompletely understood. the best supported hypothesis is that there is dopamine receptor supersensitivity, although there are strong suggestions of abnormalities in serotonin metabolism. the possibility of abnormalities in neuropeptide systems is being explored. treatment of tics relies primarily on neuroleptics with dopamine receptor blocking activity. clonidine may be useful in some patients, especially those with behavior problems. obsessive-compulsive symptoms can be treated using appropriate pharmacologic agents. the treatment of attention deficit disorder in patients with tics should begin with behavioral strategies. clonidine can be tried as the first-line drug, and psychostimulants should be used only if necessary and with great caution. in rare instances it may be necessary to combine a psychostimulant and a neuroleptic.
antibody coated bacteria in urine of patients with recent spinal injury. twenty patients with an acute spinal injury were prospectively studied to assess the clinical importance of antibody coated bacteria (acb) in the urine and the association among the different bacterial species with a positive antibody coated bacteria test. clinical urinary tract infection was associated with a positive acb test on 45% of occasions. three hundred and ninety nine urine samples containing 541 bacterial isolates were assessed for the presence of acb; 13% were found to be positive and 87% negative for acb; 67% of urines contained a single bacterial isolate. pseudomonas aeruginosa was most commonly associated with clinical urinary tract infection, found in 25% of episodes, followed by proteus mirabilis (17.5%), klebsiella sp (12.5%), and proteus morganii (10%). providencia stuartii, however, was most commonly associated with a positive acb test (found in 17%). other bacteria associated with a positive acb test included klebsiella sp (14%), acinetobacter sp (12.5%), pseudomonas aeruginosa (12%), citrobacter sp (11.5%). a positive acb test is not to be expected from a patient with spinal injury who has a catheter in place, and the test may provide a useful guide to identify those patients with an invasive infection. it is doubtful that a decision to treat or not treat bacteriuria could rest on the identification of the bacterial species alone.
the role of continued drinking in loss of portal perfusion after distal splenorenal shunt. fifty percent of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who undergo distal splenorenal shunting for variceal bleeding lose portal perfusion within 1 year. although it was previously considered that this loss of portal flow was irrevocable, the present study shows that with resolution of alcoholic hepatitis, portal perfusion can be restored. a 34-year-old patient with alcoholic liver disease and a distal splenorenal shunt lost portal perfusion 1 year after the operation. he had continued to drink alcohol and had high sinusoidal pressure. following forced abstinence over the next 2 years, his sinusoidal pressure fell, liver volume decreased, results of liver biopsy improved, and portal perfusion was restored. shunt patency was documented, and the same collaterals from the portal vein to the shunt could still be visualized as had been seen when portal flow was absent. restoration of portal perfusion was attributed to decreased intrahepatic resistance secondary to abstinence from alcohol. a return to drinking in the next 9 months led to alcoholic hepatitis and once again loss of portal perfusion. this study places emphasis on increased intrahepatic resistance rather than the development of portal-to-shunt collaterals as important in the loss of portal flow in such patients.
pregnancy after in vitro fertilization in a patient with stage i endometrial carcinoma treated with progestins. a 35-year-old woman with chronic anovulation and bilateral tubal disease was found during infertility evaluation to have grade i endometrial carcinoma confined to an endometrial polyp. she was treated with polypectomy and endometrial curettage followed by high-dose progestagens for 6 months. endometrial curettage at 3 and 6 months of therapy indicated regression of the lesion and the patient subsequently achieved successful pregnancy with ivf.
radial tunnel syndrome. an investigation of compression neuropathy as a possible cause. conventional electromyographic and nerve-conduction studies usually do not show abnormalities in patients who have a clinical diagnosis of radial tunnel syndrome. therefore, posterior interosseous nerve-conduction measurements were performed during forced supination in patients who had this syndrome. only one of sixteen patients had a major increase in latency. our data do not support the hypothesis that the signs and symptoms in most patients who have a diagnosis of radial tunnel syndrome are caused by compression of the posterior interosseous nerve.
establishment and characterization of unique cell lines (kcc-1a and kcc-1b) from endometrial adenocarcinoma with clear cell carcinoma presenting unusual karyotypes and estrogen secretion. human endometrial adenocarcinoma cell lines (kcc-1a and kcc-1b) were established from a resected endometrial carcinoma of a 67-year-old woman. the original tumor showed the bimorphic patterns of tubular adenocarcinoma and clear cell carcinoma. the cell lines have been maintained for 50 months through 100 passages. the doubling time of kcc-1a was 87 hours, whereas that of kcc-1b was 144 hours. the number of chromosomes of kcc-1a distributed in a range from 33 to 79, whereas that of kcc-1b distributed in a range from 64 to 82 (mode, 76). functionally, both kcc-1a and kcc-1b cells showed the productions of estrone (e1) and estradiol (e2) but not estriol (e3) or progesterone (p). these cells grown in a serum-free medium secreted e1 (kcc-1a, 13.6 pg/ml; kcc-1b, 9.5 pg/ml) and e2 (10.5 pg/ml, 9.5 pg/ml) at passage 40. neither kcc-1a nor kcc-1b cells contained estrogen or progesterone receptors. tumor markers--alpha-fetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, ca 125, and ca 19-9--were not detected. both kcc-1a and kcc-1b cells produced tumors in nude mice xenografts. histologically, the tumors of kcc-1a cells were clear cell carcinoma, whereas those of kcc-1b cells were tubular adenocarcinoma. these findings suggest that kcc-1a and kcc-1b cells will provide useful information to clarify the histogenesis of endometrial carcinoma combined with clear cell carcinoma.
pathophysiological insights into the cardiomyopathy of chagas' disease. the evidence gained from both human and animal studies of chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy suggests that the disease occurs as a consequence of several discrete and progressive pathophysiological processes occurring after infection, the ultimate expression of which depends on a host of unidentified factors. collectively, the infection-associated events compromise microvasculature function and result in hypoperfusion, with consequences indistinguishable from those observed in other, nonparasitological cardiomyopathic diseases secondary to hypoperfusion. therefore, chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy may share similar pathophysiological abnormalities with other chronic congestive cardiomyopathic states.
lymphokine-activated killer cell suppressor factor in malignant effusions. we examined the possibility that tumor-released products inhibit lymphokine-activated killer cell activation. lymphokine-activated killer cells from human peripheral blood lymphocytes were activated with recombinant interleukin 2 for 4 days in the presence of malignant effusions or conditioned media from cultured cell lines (10% vol/vol). eight of 10 malignant effusions/media suppressed the induction of lymphokine-activated killer cell cytotoxicity, as measured in a 4-hour sodium chromate release assay. seven of 10 effusions/media inhibited lymphokine-activated killer cell proliferation. suppression was both dose and time dependent. a representative suppressive effusion was fractionated by agarose gel chromatography, treated with detergents disruptive of ionic bonds and lipids, and refractionated using polyacrylamide gel chromatography. seven suppressive fractions ranging in molecular weight from 1 x 10(5) to 3 x 10(5) d were isolated. it is speculated that this suppressor factor may represent a large multimeric structure with ionic-bonded individual suppressive components.
fine-needle aspiration for diagnosis of intranodal squamous-cell carcinoma metastatic from the skin. fine-needle aspiration is a useful way to determine the presence of squamous-cell carcinoma in enlarged lymph nodes of patients at high risk for metastases. advantages include a high degree of accuracy, outpatient as well as inpatient availability, and negligible potential for seeding of malignant cells. cutaneous oncologists should consider using this technique in patients with lymphadenopathy and a previous history of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.
loss of chromosome 22 alleles in human sporadic spinal schwannomas. acoustic neuromas occur either as sporadic solitary tumors in the general population or as inherited bilateral tumors typically in patients with neurofibromatosis type 2. loss of heterozygosity for markers on the long arm of chromosome 22 has been reported in both instances, and neurofibromatosis type 2 has been genetically linked to a marker on the long arm of this autosome, suggesting that a unique locus on chromosome 22 is implicated in tumorigenesis of both sporadic and inherited acoustic neuromas. to determine whether the locus for neurofibromatosis type 2 might also be responsible for tumorigenesis of those schwannomas distinct from acoustic neuromas in people without neurofibromatosis type 2, we studied the dna content of three sporadic spinal schwannomas. in all three, we found loss of heterozygosity for at least three markers on the long arm of chromosome 22, indicating a partial or total monosomy 22 in the tumor. our results suggest that a locus on chromosome 22 is responsible for tumorigenesis in schwann cells regardless of their location in the central nervous system, and that some other mechanism (genetic or nongenetic) might account for the relative high proportion of schwannomas developing from the eighth cranial nerve.
piezoelectric lithotripsy and soft tissue injury. safety limits in the experimental and clinical setting. controversy surrounds the capacity of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy to cause soft tissue injury. this study examines the influence of different dosages of shock waves on the gall bladder in both humans and an animal model. sixty one guinea pigs were divided into groups and subjected to different numbers of shock waves (6,000, 24,000, and 48,000) at different frequencies (2.5, 5.0, 10, 20 shock waves per second) and sacrificed at different intervals. soft tissue damage after lithotripsy seemed to be related to the number of shock waves administered. in addition, repeated administration of low dose lithotripsy (at weekly intervals for six weeks) did not seem to produce a cumulative injury. finally, in the animals sacrificed one month after receiving high dose lithotripsy, no soft tissue damage was evident, indicating satisfactory healing. thirty patients were subjected to either high dose (36,000 shock waves) or low dose (6,000 shock waves) lithotripsy 24 hours before elective cholecystectomy. both macroscopic and microscopic evidence of soft tissue injury were detected in a significantly higher percentage of patients who received a high dose in a single treatment (p less than 0.05). the group who received repeated low dose lithotripsy showed no evidence of cumulative injury. we conclude that low dose lithotripsy produces minimal soft tissue injury and is safe when repeated up to six times at weekly intervals.
disseminated histoplasmosis with embolic endovascular complications: a case report. a 57-year-old man had subacute embolic ischemia of his right foot and subsequent acute embolic ischemia of his left foot after angiography. thrombus removed at the time of the left femoral thromboembolectomy grew histoplasma capsulatum confirming the diagnosis of disseminated histoplasmosis. surgical revascularization of the right leg and parenteral amphotericin b was followed by chronic ketoconazole therapy for 16 months. the patient has remained asymptomatic at 30 months after operation. effective treatment of endovascular infection with ischemic complications of histoplasmosis requires surgical revascularization and intensive chemotherapeutic intervention. histoplasmosis is a ubiquitous infection in endemic areas that often has an asymptomatic subclinical course. involvement of the cardiovascular system is rarely reported. previous case reports have described infected cardiac valves and aortic aneurysms. this report describes the uncommon presentation of disseminated histoplasma capsulatum infection as a peripheral embolic event and the successful management with revascularization combined with systemic amphotericin b followed by ketoconazole therapy.
anomalies of intestinal rotation in childhood: analysis of 447 cases. this report concerns 447 infants and children with anomalies of rotation and fixation. patients were placed in four groups based on initial symptoms. group a involved 18 patients with acute midgut volvulus. at laparotomy, midgut volvulus was noted and reduction of midgut volvulus and a ladd procedure were performed in 10 cases and resection was required in 8. there were five deaths (28%). group b included 54 children with chronic symptoms of intermittent volvulus or duodenal obstruction. group c involved 44 cases of malrotation observed during exploration for other disorders. patients in groups b and c underwent a ladd procedure and appendectomy. there were five unrelated deaths. group d included 331 neonates with malrotation caused by either diaphragmatic hernia (n = 111) or abdominal wall defects (n = 220). a ladd procedure was performed on 48 patients with abdominal wall defects and 29 surviving children with diaphragmatic hernia. only 2 of 172 (1.2%) patients with abdominal wall defects and 1 of 34 (2.9%) patients with diaphragmatic hernia not treated for malrotation had midgut volvulus. midgut volvulus is more common in infants and is associated with a high mortality rate (28%). patients with malrotation and chronic obstructive symptoms or those observed during other elective procedures should undergo a ladd procedure because of the risk of midgut volvulus. the risk of midgut volvulus is low in patients with abdominal wall defects and, probably as a result of adhesions from previous neonatal operations.
clonidine treatment of gilles de la tourette's syndrome. the safety and effectiveness of clonidine hydrochloride (3 to 5 micrograms/kg per day) were evaluated in 47 subjects with gilles de la tourette's syndrome, aged 7 to 48 years. twenty-four subjects were randomly assigned to clonidine treatment and 23 to placebo. forty subjects (21 given clonidine and 19 placebo) successfully completed the 12-week, double-blind clinical trial. clinical ratings of tic severity improved for both groups. the magnitude of response was greater in the group receiving clonidine. clinician-rated measures of motor tic severity, the degree to which the tics are "noticeable to others," motor tic counts from videotaped interviews, and parent-rated measures of impulsivity and hyperactivity were the most responsive to clonidine treatment. these results indicate that clonidine is more effective than placebo in reducing some of the tic and other behavioral symptoms associated with gilles de la tourette's syndrome.
treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ('trigger finger') with corticosteroids. a prospective study of the response to local injection. we developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for "trigger finger." fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest, therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide. patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years. results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61% after a single injection. recurrent episodes, after prolonged pain-free intervals, occurred in 27% and were effectively re-treated with injection. in 12% of cases, either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release. local adverse reactions to injection, including pain at the injection site, stiffness, ecchymosis, or atrophy of subcutaneous fat, were self-limited. no episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred. the medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection(s) is effective in nearly 90% of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions.
fistulas between the aorta and tracheobronchial tree. aortobronchial fistula is a rare condition that is invariably fatal if not diagnosed and surgically treated. with appropriate surgical intervention, survival rates greater than 70% can be achieved. a review of the literature and an illustrative case report are presented. a total of 63 fistulas in 62 patients have been described. the case we present is unusual in the use of serratus anterior muscle for repair of the fistula. eighty-seven percent of the cases documented in the literature were associated with an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. eighty-six percent of the fistulas were between the descending aorta and left bronchopulmonary tree. more than 95% of patients experienced at least a single episode of hemoptysis, and massive hemoptysis occurred in more than half of the reported cases. a correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only 54% of cases. plain chest radiographs definitively demonstrated an aneurysm in only 16%. the computed tomographic scan was the most rewarding test, identifying an aneurysm in 11 of 12 patients and the fistula in 50% of them. surgical repair resulted in a 76% survival rate.
antinociceptive interaction between opioids and medetomidine: systemic additivity and spinal synergy. the antinociceptive interaction on the tail flick (tf) and hot plate (hp) tests between opioid analgesics and medetomidine after intravenous (iv) or intrathecal administration were examined by isobolographic analysis. male sprague-dawley rats received fixed ratios of medetomidine to morphine, fentanyl, and meperidine of 1:10 and 1:30, 10:1, and 1:3, respectively, by iv administration or 10:1, 3:1 and 10:1, and 1:3 by intrathecal administration, respectively. data were expressed as the percentage maximal possible effect (%mpe). the a50 (dose producing 50% mpe) for each drug or drug combination was determined from the dose-response curve. isobolographic analysis revealed that the effect of medetomidine combined with fentanyl, morphine, or meperidine was additive after iv administration. the intrathecal administration of combinations of medetomidine with the opioids produced a synergistic antinociceptive effect in the tf but not hp test. these data confirmed that the interaction between medetomidine and opioids in producing antinociception may be additive or synergistic, depending on the route of administration, drug ratio administered, and level of processing of the nociceptive input (i.e., spinal vs. supraspinal). moreover, these results were consistent with a spinal role for alpha-2 adrenoceptors in mediating antinociception. the authors suggest that the interaction between the opioid and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors occurs within the spinal cord.
transcranial doppler in reversible migrainous vasospasm causing cerebellar infarction: report of a case. a young woman with a history of classic migraine suffered a large cerebellar infarction. comprehensive evaluation did not disclose any potential causes for the stroke and she had no other risk factors. transcranial doppler (tcd) was useful in identifying vasospasm of the vertebral arteries. following treatment with propranolol, angiography and repeat tcd revealed resolution of the vasospastic disorder. tcd is a useful noninvasive tool in detecting vasospasm associated with ischemic lesions in certain patients with migraine.
radiotherapy. the mainstay in the treatment of early glottic carcinoma. early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis may be effectively treated with surgery or radiation therapy. controversy exists as to whether radiation therapy effects survival at the expense of vocal function by ultimately requiring more total laryngectomies for salvage of local tumor recurrence. this study reviewed the medical records of 185 patients with t1 or t2, no invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis treated with primary radiation therapy between 1969 and 1984. all patients were followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completion of therapy. one hundred sixty-one patients met the criteria for local control analysis. radiation therapy controlled disease in 93% (105 of 113) of patients with t1 lesions and 73% (38 of 48) of those with t2 tumors. ultimate control of disease for t1 and t2 lesions, including surgical salvage, was 111 (98%) of 113 and 44 (92%) of 48 patients, respectively. the rate of successful surgical salvage was 75% (t1) and 70% (t2). the t2 lesions with impaired vocal cord mobility or anterior commissure disease were identified as being at increased risk for recurrence after primary radiation therapy. overall voice preservation was 90%. our data demonstrate that radiation therapy effects disease-free survival rates that are comparable to those produced by surgery, without sacrificing voice. although a small percentage of patients with selected early glottic lesions may be more effectively treated with primary conservation surgery, these data do not support a change in philosophy concerning primary treatment of early glottic cancer with radiation therapy.
the early diagnosis and treatment of developmental patella infera syndrome. developmental patella infera and associated arthrofibrosis after knee surgery require prompt recognition and treatment. the condition develops because of contracture of peripatellar tissues, fatpad tissues, and quadriceps weakness, and may rapidly progress to permanent patella infera and disabling patellofemoral arthrosis. case studies for five patients with acute developmental patella infera are described. all patients required an early arthroscopic release of contracted tissues. to establish normal right to left patellar, vertical-height ratios, lateral roentgenograms were obtained in 202 normal knees (101 pairs). the data showed that although essentially no difference existed between right and left sides, large variations existed in the ratios from one individual to another (range, 0.75-1.46). thus, the diagnosis of developmental patella infera requires comparison of patellar height ratios in the same knee or between knees in the same individual. a decrease in the vertical-height ratio of 11%-15%, depending on the method used, indicates developmental patella infera.
computed tomographic density of metastatic lymph nodes as a treatment-related prognostic factor in advanced head and neck cancer. pretherapeutic identification of patients likely to benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy for head and neck epidermoid cancer is of interest. we retrospectively analyzed the pretherapeutic computed tomographic (ct) scans of lymph nodes of 70 patients with head and neck cancer. all 70 patients were clinically classified as having stage iv disease. the purpose of our analysis was to compare the prognostic value of ct node density with that of the following factors: age, t and n categories, eastern cooperative oncology group performance status, tumor site, histopathologic type of disease [squamous cell carcinoma (scc) or undifferentiated carcinoma of nasopharyngeal type (unct)], and type of local-regional treatment. a simple two-grade nodal density grading system was devised. the density of normal adjacent muscle was chosen as the density standard. a node was classified grade 1 if less than 33% of the node consisted of hypodense zones. a node was classified grade 2 if more than 33% of the node consisted of hypodense zones. patients with grade 1 nodes had a complete response rate of 68% (21/31) compared with 8% (3/39) for those with grade 2 nodes (p less than .0001). the only other factor associated with complete node response was ucnt (p less than .03). however, node density remained the significant prognostic factor after adjustment for histopathologic type. follow-up ranged from 16 to 44 months, with a median of 29 months. patients with grade 1 nodes had a median survival time of 32 months versus 13 months for those with grade 2 nodes (p less than .01). a prospective study should validate the prognostic value of ct node density and its possible use in determining optimal multimodal therapy for advanced head and neck cancers.
detection of bcr-abl fusion in chronic myelogeneous leukemia by in situ hybridization. chronic myelogeneous leukemia (cml) is genetically characterized by fusion of the bcr and abl genes on chromosomes 22 and 9, respectively. in most cases, the fusion involves a reciprocal translocation t(9;22)(q34;q11), which produces the cytogenetically distinctive philadelphia chromosome (ph1). fusion can be detected by southern (dna) analysis or by in vitro amplification of the messenger rna from the fusion gene with polymerase chain reaction (pcr). these techniques are sensitive but cannot be applied to single cells. two-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish) was used with probes from portions of the bcr and abl genes to detect the bcr-abl fusion in individual blood and bone marrow cells from six patients. the fusion event was detected in all samples analyzed, of which three were cytogenetically ph1-negative. one of the ph1-negative samples was also pcr-negative. this approach is fast and sensitive, and provides potential for determining the frequency of the abnormality in different cell lineages.
differences in the membrane interaction of scrapie amyloid precursor proteins in normal and scrapie- or creutzfeldt-jakob disease-infected brains. the membrane interaction and hydrophobicity of the normal (prpc) and infectious isoform (prpsc/cjd) of scrapie and creutzfeldt-jakob disease amyloid precursor proteins was studied. the normal isoform of hamster and human scrapie amyloid precursor protein was found on the microsomal/synaptosomal membranes anchored solely by the c-terminal glycolipid. glycolipid cleavage resulted in dissociation from the membranes and change of behavior from a highly hydrophobic to a hydrophilic protein, susceptible to proteases. in contrast, the prpsc/cjd isoform was resistant to release by glycolipid-cleaving enzymes. a part of prpsc/cjd was released from the membranes after prolonged trypsin treatment, yielding a further protease-resistant product of 27-30 kda. the results demonstrate the proteolytic resistance of the membrane-bound prpsc/cjd isoform and also indicate the presence of a different, apparently disease-induced mechanism of membrane interaction in the scrapie- and cjd-infected microsomal and synaptosomal membranes.
hypertensive heart disease: relationship of silent ischemia to coronary artery disease and left ventricular hypertrophy. ecg evidence of silent ischemia occurs commonly in patients with systemic hypertension, but its relationship to left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh), large-vessel coronary artery disease (cad), and neurohumoral factors remains unclear. accordingly we validated the results of the echocardiographic method used to measure left ventricular (lv) mass in the soviet union by comparison with necropsy measurements in 30 patients, and we examined the relationships in 46 men with essential hypertension among st segment depression during ambulatory monitoring, exercise stress and transesophageal pacing (n = 38), and lv mass, catheterization evidence of cad (n = 25), and neurohumoral factors (plasma catecholamines and platelet aggregability). echocardiographic measurements of lv mass by both the soviet and penn methods were closely correlated with necropsy values (r = 0.78 and 90, respectively; both p less than 0.001). during ambulatory monitoring from 1 to 17 episodes of greater than or equal to 1 mm st depression occurred in 26 of 46 (65%) patients with hypertension; ischemia was also provoked by exercise or pacing stress in most but not all of these patients (65% and 80%, respectively). neither st depression nor the occurrence of additional episodes of symptomatic angina was related to the presence of coronary obstruction at catheterization; patients with and without st depression did not differ in age, blood pressure, or lv mass.
are cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy equivalent operations for pancreatic pseudocysts? to compare the effectiveness of cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy for treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts, 39 patients with cystgastrostomy were compared to 59 patients with cystjejunostomy. the groups were comparable in age, sex, cause of pancreatitis, pseudocyst location, symptoms, and preoperative serum amylase level. cysts treated with cystgastrostomy were larger (mean diameter, 11.1 +/- 0.9 cm) than cysts treated by cystjejunostomy (mean diameter, 6.7 +/- 0.7 cm) (p less than 0.05). mean duration of surgery was 148 +/- 11 minutes for cystgastrostomy versus 265 +/- 15 minutes for cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05). mean blood loss was 397 +/- 82 ml for cystgastrostomy versus 703 +/- 80 ml for cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05) mean intraoperative fluid requirements were 2640 +/- 313 ml for cystgastrostomy and 4403 +/- 362 ml for cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05). cyst recurrence was 10% for cystgastrostomy versus 7% for cystgastrostomy. postoperative gastrointestinal bleeding occurred in 8% of patients with cystgastrostomy and in 2% of patients with cystjejunostomy. infection problems with cystjejunostomy included two wound infections and one case of septicemia; infection problems with cystjejunostomy included five intraabdominal abscesses, two wound infections, and one case of pneumonia. two patients died with cystgastrostomy (both from gastrointestinal bleeding); two patients died with cystjejunostomy (one from intraabdominal sepsis and one from pulmonary embolus). cystgastrostomy was used for significantly larger pseudocysts and was associated with significantly less blood loss and operating time than cystjejunostomy (p less than 0.05). morbidity and mortality from cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy were comparable, although gastrointestinal bleeding was more common with cystgastrostomy and intraabdominal abscess was more common with cystjejunostomy. since cystgastrostomy can usually be performed more quickly and with less blood loss, it should be considered whenever anatomically feasible.
twelve hour overnight oesophageal ph monitoring in patients with reflux symptoms. results of continuous 12 hour overnight ph monitoring (duration of ph less than 4) were reviewed in 112 patients with heartburn or regurgitation, or both, and in 56 normal subjects. patients had more reflux than normal subjects. medically controlled patients (n = 51) had less acid reflux than patients who subsequently underwent reflux surgery (n = 61), but there was a considerable overlap between those two groups. surgery was followed by a reduction in acid reflux to a value similar to that in normal subjects. patients in whom surgery was deemed to have failed had more reflux after the operation than those in whom it was successful, but no difference could be found in the preoperative reflux values of these two subgroups. monitoring ph is not of value in selecting candidates for surgery since the results are not a good predictor of outcome, but it is useful in the objective evaluation of surgical results.
pediatric spinal epidural metastases. a total of 2259 children with solid malignant tumors were treated at st. jude children's research hospital between the years 1962 and 1987. of these, 112 (5%) developed spinal epidural metastasis with spinal cord compression during the course of their disease process. metastatic epidural spinal cord compression was caused most commonly by ewing's sarcoma and neuroblastoma, followed by osteogenic sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, hodgkin's disease, soft-tissue sarcoma, germ-cell tumor, wilm's tumor, and (rarely) hepatoma. there was no significant difference in outcome between patients with small-cell tumors (neuroblastoma, hodgkin's disease, and germ-cell tumors) who received only chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy and the patients with similar lesions who received a decompressive laminectomy alone or prior to chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. patients with spinal cord compression from metastatic sarcoma (ewing's sarcoma, soft-tissue sarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma) showed a significant improvement with decompressive laminectomy alone or before medical therapy, compared to those who received radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy without posterior decompression. pediatric tumors invade the spinal canal via the neural foramen, compressing the spinal cord in a circumferential manner, allowing decompressive laminectomy (posterior approach) to be an effective surgical approach. sixty-six percent of children who had no evidence of motor or sensory function below the level of the compression became ambulatory after surgical decompression and medical treatment, regardless of tumor type.
pregnancy in a patient with treated wilson's disease: a case report. pregnancy should have a successful outcome in a patient with treated wilson's disease if complications are excluded before conception. chelating treatment must be maintained, although there is some concern about its teratogenicity. we describe the course of pregnancy in a patient followed up in our department.
massive histamine release in a patient with systemic mastocytosis. we have measured plasma histamine concentrations, systemic vascular resistance, cardiac output and arterial pressure during laparotomy in a patient with systemic mastocytosis. the patient developed vasodilation and hypotension during surgery, associated with a massive increase in plasma histamine concentration.
effect of bleomycin on hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy of solid tumors. hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy (hpd-pt) has been successfully used to localize and treat superficial squamous cell cancers. bleomycin sulfate is a glycopeptide antibiotic that has antineoplastic properties against squamous cell cancers. because both hpd-pt and bleomycin chemotherapy are accepted forms of treatment for squamous cell cancer and their cytotoxicity is mediated by singlet oxygen and oxygen radicals, we studied the possibility of enhancing the response of solid tumors to hpd-pt by combining this modality with systemic bleomycin chemotherapy in a murine tumor model. bleomycin did not enhance hpd-pt significantly. also, we are not confident that hpd-pt alone or in combination with other agents can eradicate solid tumors; it certainly did not in this syngeneic murine tumor model.
angiodysplasia: characterization, diagnosis, and advances in treatment. gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2% of all adult hospital admissions each year. angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding. in 80% of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia, the bleeding will stop spontaneously, but will often recur. although angiography may detect bleeding in 86% of actively bleeding patients, the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 ml/min. the treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel, but this procedure is associated with a 10% rebleeding rate and 7% to 8% mortality. superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding, but effects are short-lived. superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel, but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction. laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84% of patients, with a 6% complication rate. this method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages, especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient. except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated, nd:yag laser photocoagulation is the safest, least invasive, and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia.
confusion. the term confusion describes a plethora of possible cognitive deficits and behavioral manifestations. a subjective assessment of confusion must be followed by an objective systematic evaluation to develop the cognitive-behavior profile. because of age-associated physiologic and pathologic changes, elderly patients are at high risk for developing acute confusion. the management of confusion presents a challenge to nursing. nursing can play a significant role in the prevention and the early detection of acute confusion. preventing or identifying confusion early will decrease the physical and psychological stress of the patient as well as decrease the cost of hospitalization by shortening length of stay. additional research is needed to determine the efficacy of present nursing activities and to identify new approaches for management.
nitrous oxide and epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. we asked whether the sympathomimetic effect of nitrous oxide (n2o) predisposed patients receiving n2o to arrhythmias in response to epinephrine administration. we also asked whether aging contributed to the development of arrhythmias, with or without n2o. one hundred patients having transsphenoidal hypophysectomy were randomly assigned to receive anesthesia including (n = 49) or excluding (n = 51) n2o. all patients were given an injection of epinephrine 1:200,000, with 0.5% lidocaine to produce hemostasis. using intermittent 12-lead and continuous lead ii electrocardiography, we determined the incidence of premature ventricular contraction, isorhythmic atrioventricular (av) dissociation, and changes in t-wave morphology. patients given n2o had a significantly higher incidence of isorhythmic av dissociation (61.2% vs 41.2%). a trend toward a higher incidence of multiple premature ventricular contractions (16.3% vs 7.8%) was not statistically significant. both anesthetic groups had a high incidence of postoperative changes in t-wave morphology (46.9% in the n2o group vs 50.9% in the group not given n2o). aging alone did not affect the incidence of ventricular ectopic beats, isorhythmic av dissociation, or changes in electrocardiographic morphology, but correlated with the development of ventricular ectopy during n2o anesthesia. we conclude that the use of n2o correlated with a higher incidence of isorhythmic av dissociation in response to injection of epinephrine with lidocaine.
coronary artery bypass operation in dialysis patients. to analyze the short- and long-term morbidity and mortality among maintenance dialysis patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass operations, we identified 25 such patients at the mayo clinic and three recently published large single-center studies that provided sufficient detail for meaningful comparison. two independent observers reviewed the new information with regard to pertinent historical, clinical, and laboratory data. the perioperative mortality was 20%. among the perioperative survivors, 1- and 2-year survival rates were 95% and 77%, respectively. the 3-year actuarial survival was 70%. uniformly, the symptoms diminished, and the need for antianginal medication was decreased. in the three other large published series, the perioperative mortality ranged from 3 to 20%, and coronary artery bypass performed earlier after the onset of the symptoms seemed to result in a lower perioperative mortality. we conclude that elective coronary artery bypass in dialysis patients is associated with acceptable short-term morbidity and mortality and effective relief of symptoms. surgically treated patients may have a survival advantage. thus, we advocate aggressive early investigation and surgical treatment of these patients.
the effect of adjunctive arteriovenous fistula on prosthetic graft patency: a controlled study in a canine model. bilateral 6 mm ptfe grafts were placed from the external iliac artery to the femoral artery with ligation of the intervening segment of the iliofemoral artery in 14 dogs. an arteriovenous fistula was constructed at the distal anastomosis on one randomly selected side in each animal while the contralateral graft served as a control. graft follow-up ranged between 8 and 12 months in all animals. serial arteriography was performed to confirm graft and fistula patency and demonstrated persistence of antegrade flow into the arterial tree distal to all patent bypasses. femoral intraarterial pressures distal to patent grafts were identical on both sides in each animal throughout the study. cumulative life-table patency rates showed higher patency for the arteriovenous fistula bypasses than the control grafts at all time intervals: 71% vs. 57% at 3 months, 48% vs. 25% at 6 months, and 40% vs. 22% at 12 months, respectively. this is the first controlled study that provides experimental evidence suggesting that these bypasses may produce increased patency of prosthetic arterial grafts and lends support to their use in a clinical, prospective, randomized study.
tables for estimation of individual risks of fetal neural tube and ventral wall defects, incorporating prior probability, maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels, and ultrasonographic examination results. tables are provided for estimation of the risk of open spina bifida in patients who have elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels but normal results on detailed anatomy ultrasonographic scan. risks are provided for various prior population risks, for various levels of elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein, and for various assumptions about the sensitivity of ultrasonographic examination. the formula used is based on sequential multiplication of odds with the use of bayes' theorem, but an arbitrary reduction (to the power of 0.5) in the degree to which ultrasonographic information modifies the odds has been made to allow for the nonindependence of ultrasonography and maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein tests. the wide range of resulting risks shows that the decision to offer amniocentesis after a negative scan should be individualized.
coronary perfusion catheter: its effectiveness in an experimental model of acute coronary occlusion. the effectiveness of a coronary perfusion catheter was studied in an animal model of acute coronary occlusion. systemic hemodynamic variables, regional myocardial blood flow (rmbf) in the subepicardium and subendocardium, and regional systolic function (systolic segmental shortening) of the area perfused by the circumflex coronary artery (cx) were measured in eight anesthetized dogs. after baseline measurements, the cx coronary artery was occluded with a silk snare and measurements were repeated after 5 minutes of ischemia (occlusion no. 1). the snare was released and 1 hour later the snare occlusion was repeated after placement of a perfusion catheter in the cx coronary artery. after 5 minutes, measurements were repeated (occlusion no. 2). to determine the long-term effectiveness of the catheter, hemodynamic variables and regional function measurements were then obtained every 15 minutes for a total of 60 minutes. during occlusion no. 1, rmbf decreased from 1.30 +/- 0.20 to 0.41 +/- 0.13 ml.min-1.gm-1 (p less than 0.01), and subendocardial rmbf decreased from 1.44 +/- .24 to 0.34 +/- 0.15 ml.min-1.gm-1 (p less than 0.01). after insertion of the perfusion catheter (occlusion no. 2), subepicardial rmbf was maintained at 0.97 +/- 0.16 and subendocardial rmbf was maintained at 0.78 +/- 0.13 ml.min-1.gm-1; during occlusion no. 2 subepicardial rmbf was greater (p less than 0.05) than occlusion no. 1 and was not different from baseline.
bilateral emphysematous pyelonephritis. emphysematous pyelonephritis is an uncommon and serious infection associated with gas-forming coliform bacteria. bilateral involvement is rare with only 10 reported cases in the english literature. prompt and aggressive management is required to salvage these patients. preservation of renal function using broad-spectrum antibiotics and surgical drainage provide the greatest benefit to these patients. three new cases are presented with a brief review of the results of management in the reported cases.
effect of exposure of miners to aluminium powder. 'mcintyre powder' (finely ground aluminium and aluminium oxide) was used as a prophylactic agent against silicotic lung disease between 1944 and 1979 in mines in northern ontario. to find out whether the practice produced neurotoxic effects a morbidity prevalence study was conducted between 1988 and 1989. there were no significant differences between exposed and non-exposed miners in reported diagnoses of neurological disorder; however, exposed miners performed less well than did unexposed workers on cognitive state examinations; also, the proportion of men with scores in the impaired range was greater in the exposed than non-exposed group. likelihood of scores in the impaired range increased with duration of exposure. the findings are consistent with putative neurotoxicity of chronic aluminium exposure.
omeprazole in h2 receptor antagonist-resistant reflux esophagitis. we conducted a retrospective review of 25 patients with severe reflux esophagitis treated with omeprazole because of failure of h2 receptor antagonists to heal their esophagitis. prior to beginning omeprazole (40 mg/day), all patients were on h2 antagonists for at least 9 months and still had endoscopic evidence of longitudinal (grade ii) or circumferential (grade iii) distal esophageal ulceration. omeprazole therapy brought about complete endoscopic healing in 24 of 25 patients (96%). twenty-three of 24 healed patients were then restarted on h2 antagonists as maintenance therapy. repeat endoscopy was performed if symptoms recurred. fourteen of 24 patients (58%) had recurrence of endoscopic esophagitis documented between 26 and 300 days from the time of starting maintenance therapy. two of these 14 patients opted for antireflux surgery, whereas the remaining 12 were once again given omeprazole, which again resulted in symptom resolution in all patients. these data suggest that most patients with h2 receptor antagonist-resistant ulcerative esophagitis cannot be successfully maintained on h2 antagonists even after the ulcers have been healed with omeprazole. further studies are required to determine the role of omeprazole compared to other treatments in the long-term maintenance therapy of these patients.
primary leiomyoma of the liver. a 30-yr-old woman with right upper quadrant abdominal pain was found to have a hepatic leiomyoma. this is the youngest patient in whom this rare tumor has been found. the diagnostic approach toward gastrointestinal leiomyomata is emphasized, including the role of immunohistochemistry.
primary lymphoma of the liver: clinical and pathological features of 10 patients. nine out of 10 patients with primary lymphoma of the liver presented in a manner that did not suggest a tumour. the initial diagnoses were chronic active hepatitis in three cases and "granulomatous cholangitis", inflammatory pseudotumour, and anaplastic carcinoma in one case each. moreover, extensive haemorrhagic necrosis in three cases initially suggested the budd-chiari syndrome. all the tumours were diffuse non-hodgkin's lymphomas like the 50 cases reported previously, but they differed from most of these in that nine were of t cell phenotype. five were pleomorphic small t cell, two t zone, and two t lymphoblastic lymphomas: only one was centrocytic and of b cell lineage. this report extends the range of clinical manifestations (diffuse hepatomegaly without a tumour), histological appearances (resemblance to chronic inflammatory or vascular liver diseases) and phenotype (of t cell lineage) of primary lymphoma of the liver: these features seemed to be related in this series. recognition is important as prognosis remains favourable in appropriately treated cases. although the appearances of the liver biopsy specimens may be difficult to interpret, the destructiveness of the infiltrate is an important clue to the diagnosis.
hemifacial spasm in rochester and olmsted county, minnesota, 1960 to 1984. the incidence of hemifacial spasm in residents of olmsted county, minnesota, was studied by reviewing the medical records of patients residing in the community between 1960 and 1984. the average annual incidence rate was 0.74 per 100,000 in men and 0.81 per 100,000 in women, age-adjusted to the 1970 us white population. the average prevalence rate was 7.4 per 100,000 population in men and 14.5 per 100,000 in women. the incidence and prevalence rates were highest in those from 40 to 79 years of age.
meningitis due to protozoa and helminths. this article reviews the microbiology, pathogenesis, epidemiology, clinical manifestations, diagnostic tests, and recent advances in the therapy of protozoan and helminthic infections of the central nervous system, with more emphasis given to protozoan than to helminthic infections.
immunodetection of the metastasis-associated laminin receptor in human breast cancer cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the breast is a very useful technique for the evaluation of a suspect lesion before surgical removal. increased expression of the 67-kd laminin receptor has been associated with the metastatic phenotype of cancer cells, particularly in colon and breast cancers. in this study, the expression of laminin receptor was evaluated using the immunoperoxidase technique in 81 breast aspirates (26 benign and 55 neoplastic lesions). cells obtained from benign samples exhibited a low level of laminin receptor antigen detected by affinity-purified antibody raised against a cdna-derived laminin receptor peptide. in contrast, 71% of smears obtained from malignant breast lesions contained cells that were strongly stained by the antibody. heterogeneous expression of the laminin receptor was noted in both breast aspirates and fixed tissue specimens. these data suggest that the immunodetection of laminin receptor in cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration of breast lesions could be a valuable adjunct in the prognostic evaluation of breast lesions.
the systemic septic response: concepts of pathogenesis. following resuscitation from shock, the clinical phase of persistent hypermetabolism is entered from which a substantial number of patients transcend into progressive organ failure and expire. the available epidemiologic, physiologic, and metabolic data are consistent with the position that a persistent degree of microcirculatory hypoxia, although it may be present in amounts that are below the sensitivity of current detection systems, becomes an increasingly less important etiologic factor as the organ failure disease progresses. rather, aerobic metabolism appears to be the dominant mechanism of meeting the increased work loads and energy demands. there is an increasing body of evidence that cytokine release systemically, and increased cell-cell interaction through cytokines and prostanoids locally, may alter not only parenchymal function in the proximity of these mononuclear cells, but organ function at distant sites. if this latter hypothesis continues to be substantiated, it implies that the underlying cell and organ dysfunction may indeed be reversible if appropriate counter-regulatory mechanisms could be developed and the appropriate timing of their application understood.
renal artery stenosis: evaluation with color doppler flow imaging. renal artery stenosis (ras) is the most common correctable cause of hypertension. the current study was undertaken to evaluate the usefulness of color doppler flow imaging as a screening examination in the detection of significant ras. fifty-five kidneys in 30 patients were examined with aortography and color doppler flow imaging in a double-blind fashion. the peak systolic velocity (psv) in the renal artery, the renal-aortic ratio (rar) (ie, the ratio of the psv in the renal artery to the psv in the aorta), and the renal artery resistive index were determined and compared with the percentage of stenosis as determined with angiography. ultrasound (us) criteria used to diagnose ras were (a) an rar of 3.5 or greater and/or (b) a renal artery psv of greater than 100 cm/sec. doppler tracings were obtained in 25 (69%) of 36 kidneys with a patent single renal artery. rar and psv each yielded a sensitivity of 0% in the diagnosis of ras. doppler tracings were obtained in three (50%) of six occluded renal arteries. accessory arteries were present in 13 (24%) of 55 kidneys, but none were visualized with color doppler flow imaging. the authors conclude that with current technical capability, color duplex us is not an adequate screening method for the detection of ras.
metastatic carcinoma of the gallbladder from renal cancer presenting as intraluminal polypoid mass. we report a rare case of secondary involvement of the gallbladder by metastatic renal cell carcinoma. a 71-year-old man was diagnosed as having a polypoid mass within the gallbladder when he underwent right nephrectomy for a renal cell carcinoma. a preoperative diagnosis of simultaneous carcinoma of the gallbladder was made, and extended cholecystectomy with regional lymphadenectomy was performed five months after the initial operation. postoperative histological examination of the polypoid mass within the gallbladder and a pancreatic mass excised during the second surgery revealed these resected tumors to be identical to the clear cell type of renal cell carcinoma. we feel that this case presents synchronous involvement of the gallbladder and pancreas by metastatic renal cell carcinoma of the right kidney.
clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction, and survivors of sudden ischemic death occurring during and after sport. the clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of 42 well-conditioned subjects with an acute ischemic event related to sport are reported. five patients had unstable angina, 25 had acute myocardial infarction (ami), and 12 were resuscitated victims of sudden ischemic death. twenty-two events occurred during sport (group a) and 20 after sport (group b). there were two women and 40 men. the mean age was 46 years (range 25 to 65). twelve out of 30 patients who smoked cigarettes had an adjunctive risk factor for coronary artery disease. twelve others (28%) had no identifiable risk factor. prodromal cardiac symptoms were detected in three patients (group a). two patients had previous myocardial infarction (group b). coronary angiography was performed acutely in 39 patients. the distribution of the ischemia-related coronary artery was comparable in both groups. the lesion morphology of 35 culprit coronary arteries was described as concentric in six patients and eccentric with regular borders (type i lesion) in 11 and irregular borders (type ii lesion) in 18. eccentric lesions consistent with ruptured plaques prevailed in both groups. associated coronary artery disease was present in 10 patients. there was no relationship between the number of risk factors and the extent of diseased coronary arteries. clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina, ami, and sudden death either during or after sport are similar and indicate a common pathogenesis. the probable mechanism of a coronary event related to sport is exercise-induced plaque rupture. in most instances such an event is unexpected and unpredictable. identification of some subjects at risk is possible.
oral contraception in disease states. oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease, ischemic heart attack, or cerebral stroke. patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation, because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding. patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery. migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications, depending on the individual situation. long-term diseases, such as crohn's disease, epilepsy, and sickle cell anemia, also require individualized consultation.
lymphoma of the gastric stump: report of a case. we report a case of primary lymphoma on a previously resected stomach in a 62-year-old man. the patient was treated 22 years earlier with a partial gastrectomy and billroth ii reconstruction for a benign gastric ulcer. the rarity of this entity and its possible relationship with pseudolymphoma or lymphoid nodular hyperplasia is discussed, and the literature is reviewed.
expression of p-glycoprotein in adult t-cell leukemia cells. we have examined the expression of p-glycoprotein (p-gp) in adult t-cell leukemia (atl) samples from 25 patients. based on immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody against p-gp, c219, 8 of 20 atl patients were p-gp positive at the initial presentation. all 6 patients at the relapsed stage were p-gp positive, and refractory to chemotherapy. the expression of mdr1 mrna in p-gp-positive atl cells was increased at the relapsed stage of one patient. p-gp of this patient was photolabeled with [3h]azidopine and the labeling was inhibited with nimodipine, vinblastine and progesterone. these results suggest that p-gp expressed in atl cells from patients at relapsed stage has the same binding site(s) for the drugs as that in multidrug resistant cells, and is correlated with the refractory nature of the cells to chemotherapy.
clinical evaluation of delapril in japan. report from the japan study group on delapril. delapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor discovered in the laboratory of takeda chemical industries, ltd., is the result of drug design based on the structure-activity relationships of ace inhibitors. delapril is an antihypertensive agent with a relatively long duration of action and no sh moiety in its structure. following administration, it is converted into two active metabolites. delapril effectively lowered blood pressure in 73% of 1,008 patients with hypertension during clinical trials in japan. efficacy rates were 73% for essential hypertension, 85% for renal hypertension, and 80% for renovascular hypertension. excellent hypotensive response was observed in all age groups, from young to elderly patients. side effects during administration of delapril, based on subjective evidence, were reported in 80 out of the 1,008 cases (7.9%). the main symptoms included orthostatic dizziness (1.7%), dizziness (1.3%), and nausea (1.1%). dry cough, which has attracted attention in recent years as a side effect of ace inhibitors, was reported at a low incidence of 1.1%. in a double-blind, controlled study in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension in which captopril served as a positive control, delapril showed superior hypotensive effect and greater safety. data derived from the japan study group on delapril indicate that this ace inhibitor has excellent hypotensive effects and a high level of safety. it is suitable as a first-line drug in both monotherapy and combined therapy.
the effects of an iron chelator on cellular injury induced by vascular stasis caused by hypothermia. rewarming of a cooled rabbit leg was associated with the generation of oxygen-derived free radicals, shown to be instrumental for tissue injury occurring during rewarming. the present study used a compound that, by its ability to bind with free iron, can remove hydroxyl radical (oh.) from tissue. deferoxamine reduced tissue injury during cooling and rewarming, as evidenced by its ability to decrease tissue release of lactic acid dehydrogenase and creatine kinase. deferoxamine also reduced the formation of oh. and lipid peroxidation during the rewarming phase. this compound did not have any effect on the arterial blood flow pattern, which uniformly decreased during cooling and was restored during rewarming. the results of this study indicate the efficacy of deferoxamine in reducing cellular injury associated with cold and rewarming and further suggest a role for oxygen-derived free radicals in the pathophysiology of cold-rewarming injury.
delayed subcapsular hematoma after percutaneous liver biopsy as a manifestation of warfarin toxicity. guidelines for the management of patients receiving chronic anticoagulation therapy who require liver biopsy are not clearly defined. in patients with normal coagulation, liver biopsy is a relatively safe procedure with a morbidity of less than 0.1% and a mortality of less than 0.01%. we report a patient with a prosthetic aortic valve who developed a large subcapsular hematoma 12 days after a percutaneous liver biopsy as a consequence of warfarin toxicity. based on the experience with this patient, reinstitution of anticoagulant therapy should be avoided for at least 72 h after a percutaneous liver biopsy. intravenous heparin should be resumed first, and warfarin added if no bleeding has occurred after an additional 48-72 h. the prothrombin time should be maintained at 1.5 times the baseline.
t(3;21)(q26;q22): a recurring chromosomal abnormality in therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. we have identified an identical reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 3 and 21 with breakpoints at bands 3q26 and 21q22, [t(3;21)(q26;q22)], in the malignant cells from five adult patients with therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome (t-mds) or acute myeloid leukemia (t-aml). primary diagnoses were hodgkin's disease in two patients and ovarian carcinoma, breast cancer, and polycythemia vera in one patient each. patients had been treated with chemotherapy including an alkylating agent for their primary disease 1 to 18 years before the development of t-mds or t-aml. we have not observed the t(3;21) in over 1,500 patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia arising de novo or in over 1,000 patients with lymphoid malignancies. we have previously reported that the t(3;21) occurs in philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml). thus, the t(3;21) appears to be limited to t-mds/t-aml and cml, both of which represent malignant disorders of an early hematopoietic precursor cell. these results provide a new focus for the study of therapy-related leukemia at the molecular level.
design mediated thrombus reduction in the utah-100 total artificial heart. the utah-100 total artificial heart was initially designed and tested in 1983. general design goals, including improved fit for human application, improved reliability, and elimination of thrombus formation, were identified as improvements over the clinically used jarvik-7 artificial heart, previously developed at the institute for biomedical engineering, university of utah. specific design goals included 1) elimination of connector and valve-associated thrombus formation and 2) elimination of gross mineralization, thrombus formation, and creases on the blood-pumping diaphragm of the device. explant retrieval results from 29 calves and sheep implanted with the jarvik-7 artificial heart were compared with results from 25 calves and sheep implanted with the utah-100 artificial heart. macroscopic thrombus formation was found in 44% of the connectors of the jarvik-7 artificial-hearts, compared with 2% (p less than or equal to 0.01) in animals with the utah-100 artificial heart. subvalvular and supravalvular thrombi were observed in 33% of the valves in the jarvik-7 artificial heart and 10% (p less than or equal to 0.01) of the valves in the utah-100 artificial heart. mineralization of the pumping diaphragm was observed in 12% of the animals implanted with the jarvik-7 artificial heart and in 4% of the animals with the utah-100 diaphragms. thrombus formation in the diaphragm-housing interface occurred in 2% of jarvik-7 ventricles and in 6% of the utah-100 ventricles. there were no identifiable diaphragm creases in the utah-100 diaphragms, but a 10% incidence was found in jarvik-7 devices. these results validate substantial progress toward improved design and fabrication methods in the utah-100 total artificial heart.
reduction of myocardial reperfusion injury by intravenous adenosine administered during the early reperfusion period. adenosine influences the function of several cell types thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of myocardial reperfusion injury. we have previously demonstrated that intracoronary administration of adenosine enhances myocardial salvage 24 hours after reperfusion. to determine if these beneficial effects could be obtained during a prolonged period of reperfusion using an intravenous route of administration, 22 closed-chest dogs were subjected to 90 minutes of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and 72 hours of reperfusion. animals randomly received either intravenous adenosine (0.15 mg/kg/min) or an equal volume of ringer's lactate during the first 150 minutes of reperfusion. the area at risk was defined in vivo with monastral blue, and infarct size was measured histologically with mallory's trichrome stain. serial global and regional ventricular function were determined with contrast ventriculography and analyzed using a computerized radial shortening method. biopsies were obtained from the central ischemic zone to assess endothelial ultrastructure and capillary obstruction. no significant effects in heart rate or blood pressure were noted during adenosine infusion. transmural collateral blood flow during ischemia was similar in the groups. infarct size expressed as a percentage of the anatomical area at risk was significantly less in the adenosine-treated group (35.3 +/- 4.3% in controls versus 17.1 +/- 4.3% in treated animals, p less than 0.01). a progressive decrease in transmural blood flow was noted in control animals during reperfusion, resulting in a significant reduction at 3 hours compared with the preocclusion value (0.69 +/- 0.11 ml/min/g [at baseline versus 0.45 +/- 0.10 ml/min/g at 3 hours, p less than 0.05]). in contrast, flow in adenosine animals at 3 hours was similar to baseline values (0.91 +/- 0.15 ml/min/g at baseline versus 0.98 +/- 0.14 ml/min/g at 3 hours, p = ns) and was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than the control group. radial shortening in the ischemic zone was significantly improved at 3 (-2.6 +/- 2.8% in controls versus 11.6 +/- 3.3% in treated animals, p less than 0.01) and 72 hours (5.5 +/- 2.0% in controls versus 17.3 +/- 3.5% in treated animals, p less than 0.01) after reperfusion in treated animals. electron microscopy showed reduced neutrophil and erythrocyte plugging of capillaries with relative preservation of endothelial cell structure in the adenosine group.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
assessment of the risk of bleeding from esophageal varices by continuous monitoring of portal pressure. portal pressure was monitored by means of an indwelling hepatic vein balloon catheter in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and bleeding varices to determine the safety and feasibility of the technique and its value in predicting recurrence of bleeding. forty patients were enrolled. central venous access could not be achieved in 4 patients (10%). hepatic vein catheterization was accomplished in the remaining 36 patients. fourteen patients were either later found to have nonalcoholic liver disease or had already received treatment that excluded them from the protocol. the remaining 22 patients, who were treated with blood and fluid replacement, were monitored for up to 72 hours. portal pressure was greater than 11 mm hg in all patients (normal, less than 5 mm hg) and did not change significantly over the 3 days of study. portal pressure was significantly higher in the 9 patients who continued to bleed or rebled compared with the 13 patients who remained stable. the lowest pressure associated with continued bleeding or rebleeding was 16 mm hg. continuous monitoring of portal pressure in patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to alcoholic cirrhosis is safe and feasible and permits rapid stratification of the risk of continued bleeding or early rebleeding.
congenital dermoid fistula of the lower lip. a case of congenital dermoid fistula of the lower lip is presented. the lesion consisted of a major cystic portion, a proximal tubelike extension that opened in the lower lip as a small sinus (pit) near the left commissure, and a distal cordlike extension that entered into the left mental foramen. the cystic cavity was lined with keratinizing stratified squamous epithelium, and many sebaceous glands, sweat glands, and hair follicles were seen subcutaneously. the differential diagnosis and the pathogenesis of the lesion are also discussed.
through-knee amputation in high-risk patients with vascular disease: indications, complications and rehabilitation. during a 10-year period 104 patients (mean age 72 years) had 106 through-knee amputations. indications for surgery were: limb gangrene, 67 (64 per cent); ischaemic ulceration, 22 (21 per cent); rest pain, 9; knee contractures, 6. thirty patients had had previous unsuccessful vascular reconstructive surgery and five had had a failed femoral embolectomy. the through-knee disarticulation used lateral skin flaps. the mortality was 21 (20 per cent). of the 83 survivors, 59 (71 per cent) underwent uncomplicated primary wound healing; 36 (43 per cent) of the survivors were unsuitable for rehabilitation on a prosthesis. the remaining 47 (57 per cent) were walking before discharge 30-130 days (mean 68 days) after amputation. through-knee amputation is a rapid, relatively bloodless, amputation and is a useful debridement procedure. the many surgical and functional advantages, in conjunction with the recent reports of better rehabilitation compared with the above-knee or gritti-stokes amputation, suggests that the through-knee amputation deserves greater consideration.
adverse treatment effects in the trial of the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly. adverse treatment effects were assessed in 840 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to active treatment (a combination of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide) or placebo; methyldopa was added to the regimen in one third of the treated patients. symptoms of dry mouth, nasal stuffiness, and diarrhea were reported by significantly more treated patients than placebo control subjects. more patients receiving diuretics plus methyldopa than diuretics alone reported dry mouth and diarrhea. significantly more treated patients than control subjects showed evidence of a high serum creatinine level, mild hypokalemia, and gout. more treated patients tended to have diabetes. the benefits of treatment outweighed these adverse treatment effects.
technetium-99m sestamibi in chronic coronary artery disease: the european experience. since the introduction of technetium-99m methoxy-isobutyl isonitrile (tc-99m sestamibi) in europe, there has been a growing interest in its use. several european multicenter trials have been conducted to evaluate this new agent in relation to the traditional perfusion marker thallium-201, and other studies are in progress to understand the use of this perfusion marker for the diagnosis of coronary disease, for use in conjunction with pharmacologic vasodilation, for use in the assessment of ventricular function and wall motion and for the assessment of interventions.
small bowel enteroscopy: an early experience in gastrointestinal bleeding of unknown origin. peroral small intestinal enteroscopy was performed in 35 consecutive patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of unknown origin by using a prototypic sonde-type enteroscope. the median value for patient age was 69 years; duration of bleeding, 2 years (range, 2 months to 9 years); and transfusion requirements, 9 units. bleeding was occult in 54% of these patients. placement and passage of the enteroscope was performed by a gastrointestinal endoscopy assistant. mean passage time was 4.3 hours. complete passage was obtained in 14% of the patients, passage into the mid-distal ileum in 69%, and passage only into the jejunum in 17%. the diagnostic yield was 26%, with the majority of lesions encountered being mucosal vascular malformations. small intestinal enteroscopy is a reasonable diagnostic procedure before embarking on visceral angiography and surgical exploration when standard endoscopic and radiologic methods fail to disclose a diagnosis.
the axilla: not a no-go zone many surgeons, particularly in the uk, give inadequate primary treatment to patients with operable breast cancer. for spurious reasons they regard axillary clearance as unnecessarily extensive surgery and rely instead upon total mastectomy or tumour excision and node sampling, with or without postoperative radiotherapy. but it is now clear that relapse-free and overall survival can be improved by appropriate adjuvant therapy. thus inadequate exploration of the axilla is doubly unjustified. not only is there the obvious risk of failure to remove nodes that contain metastases--so that some patients are deprived of cure by primary treatment--but the extent of tumour spread will be inadequately assessed in many more patients, with the risk that they may not receive appropriate adjuvant treatment.
immunohistochemical demonstration of keratin in ameloblastoma as an indication of tumor differentiation. keratin expression was studied immunohistochemically in 27 ameloblastomas using polyclonal antibody against wide-spectrum keratins (ttl) and monoclonal antibodies against lower- and higher-molecular-weight keratins (pkk1 and kl1), respectively, to clarify the tumor differentiation. reactions with ttl and kl1 antibodies were generally positive in the stellate cells of the follicular or acanthomatous ameloblastomas. cell nests of the basal cell type were positive for pkk1. on the other hand, the reactions with ttl or kl1 in the plexiform type were generally weak or absent. from these facts, it was concluded that the follicular, as well as acanthomatous, ameloblastoma is liable to undergo squamous differentiation, whereas the plexiform ameloblastoma remains in primitive stage of tumor differentiation.
tumor suppressor genes: new prospects for cancer research. cancer is thought to arise from the accumulation of several genetic mutations in a single cell. until recently, the only tumorigenic mutations that have been studied in detail are those that activate oncogenes. the discovery of tumor suppressor genes, for which inactivating mutations elicit tumorigenesis, has added a new dimension to our understanding of neoplasia. the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene rb is the prototype tumor suppressor gene and has been shown to suppress the transformed phenotype for several different cancers. additional studies have revealed other tumor suppressor genes that may operate in a variety of tissues through a variety of mechanisms. these mechanisms may regulate the choice between cellular proliferation and differentiation and appear to involve such processes as the initiation of dna replication, regulation of expression of certain genes, intercellular communication and adhesion, and the transduction of external signals to intracellular effectors. the elucidation of these mechanisms will enhance our understanding of both oncogenesis and the fundamental operations of the cell.
therapy of renal cell carcinoma with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells: phase ii experience with a hybrid bolus and continuous infusion interleukin-2 regimen. forty-seven patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma were treated with interleukin-2 (il-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (lak)-cell therapy, using a hybrid il-2 regimen. il-2 was administered initially by intravenous bolus (10(5) u/kg [cetus corp, emeryville, ca] every 8 hours for 3 days) during the priming phase, and subsequently by continuous infusion (3 x 10(6) u/m2 for 6 days); during this second treatment period, in vitro-generated lak cells were administered. despite selection of patients for good performance status (ps) (29, ps 0; 18, ps 1) prior nephrectomy (43 of the 47 patients), and low tumor burden, the response rate was low (two complete [crs] and two partial responses [prs], for an overall objective response rate of 9%). toxicity was comparable to that experienced with the high-dose bolus regimen. these results suggest that the dose and schedule of il-2 administration may influence the likelihood of response to il-2 in renal cell carcinoma.
coronary morphology after percutaneous directional coronary atherectomy in humans: autopsy analysis of three patients. the morphologic basis of angiographically successful percutaneous directional atherectomy and subsequent restenosis in human coronary arteries is unknown. the clinical and pathologic features of three patients who died after coronary atherectomy are described. tissue fragments obtained with atherectomy demonstrated atheromatous and fibroproliferative intima, media and adventitia. at autopsy, treated vascular segments (from the left anterior descending artery in two patients and a vein graft in one patient) demonstrated discrete defects in the vascular wall. defects extending into atheroma, media or adventitia corresponded with the presence of these tissues in the atherectomy specimens. tissues were otherwise not disrupted in the manner associated with balloon angioplasty. acute mural thrombus deposition was evident in the resection zone in one patient. late findings included fibroproliferative intimal tissue extending from the resected areas into the vascular lumen. in one patient intimal hyperplasia was sufficient to narrow the vascular lumen by 82% and was implicated in subsequent myocardial ischemia and infarction. the study indicates that 1) the vascular injury associated with atherectomy is distinct from that associated with balloon angioplasty, 2) acute mural thrombus deposition may occur even with resection limited to the intima, and 3) intimal hyperplasia may develop in regions treated with atherectomy and may be associated with late myocardial ischemia and infarction.
tourette syndrome and other tic disorders. diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment. in this report, we discuss the definition, characteristics, pathophysiology, and treatment of tic disorders with a major emphasis on tourette syndrome. although the diagnosis of a tic disorder depends on the presence of motor and/or phonic tic(s), patients with these problems also have a variety of co-morbid features including obsessive-compulsive symptoms, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, behavioral difficulties, and learning disabilities. conservative estimates for tourette syndrome suggest a prevalence rate of 0.1-1.0 per 1000. this syndrome is inherited in a sex-influenced autosomal dominant pattern with either chronic multiple tic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder as alternative phenotypes of the putative gene. current evidence continues to support a pathophysiologic mechanism involving synaptic neurotransmission, with the dopaminergic system as a primary candidate. therapeutically, it is essential to clarify whether a patient's problems are related to tics or associated behavioral difficulties. pharmacotherapy for motor and phonic tics is strictly symptomatic and should be reserved for those with functionally disabling symptoms. a comprehensive individualized treatment program is often required in the care of individuals with tic disorders.
two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis due to hypercalcemia. we report two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia. after sudden onset of epigastralgia, acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia were found in both patients. there were no diseases that could explain the acute pancreatitis except for hypercalcemia probably due to adult t-cell leukemia. thus we considered that hypercalcemia due to adult t-cell leukemia had led to acute pancreatitis. this is the first report of such a complication in adult t-cell leukemia.
a phase ii clinical trial of carboplatin infusion in high-risk acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia. carboplatin (cbdca) is a second-generation platinum drug that has been shown to be useful when used as a continuous infusion in treatment of refractory adult leukemia. we report on the effectiveness of continuous infusion cbdca, 300 mg/m2/d x 5 days, as evaluated in nine patients with secondary acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (anll) (seven previous myelodysplastic syndrome and two treatment-associated anll), three anll patients in first relapse, six refractory anll, and nine patients with blastic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia (bp-cml). all patients were considered assessable. the response rate was 44% (eight complete remissions [crs], four partial remissions [prs]). median duration of postchemotherapy neutropenia was 36 days (range, 18 to 45). therapy was well tolerated, and toxicity was mainly hematologic and nondose-limiting. despite prolonged neutropenia, severe infections were rarely seen, and most patients were managed as outpatients. twelve patients had nausea and vomiting, two had symptomatic hypomagnesemia, and one patient showed reversible ototoxicity. because of substantial antileukemic activity and unusual extrahematologic toxicity, cbdca appears to be an effective second-line agent in the treatment of anll and should be considered for upgrading to first-line treatment regimens.
oxygen debt and metabolic acidemia as quantitative predictors of mortality and the severity of the ischemic insult in hemorrhagic shock. background and methods: an experimental canine model of hemorrhagic, hypovolemic shock is described that uses oxygen debt and its metabolic consequences of lactic acidemia and metabolic base deficit as independent variables for the prediction of probability of death. results: lactic acidemia and metabolic base deficit are compared with the conventional hemodynamic variables of bp and cardiac output (qt) as predictors of outcome and are shown to be superior using a modified kaplan-meier probability statistic. the ld50 for oxygen debt is shown to be 113.5 ml/kg, 12.9 mmol/l for lactate, and -18.8 mmol/l for base excess (be). comparison is made between the ability of qt, bp, shed blood, be, and lactate to predict oxygen debt. conclusions: of the single-variable predictors, be shows the highest explained variability. however, a combined prediction from both lactate and be appears superior to the use of either alone. using this regression to compute the oxygen debt, it is possible to estimate accurately the actual level of oxygen debt from the be and lactate values obtained during hemorrhagic hypovolemia. from serial determinations over time of the increase in these biochemical variables above the oxygen debt baseline, it is possible to estimate the rate of oxygen debt accumulation and the time remaining until the ld50 will be reached as indicators of the severity of the total body ischemia resulting from hemorrhagic shock.
untying the gordian knot: the genetics of tourette syndrome. a review of the current status of the genetics of tourette syndrome is presented. over the course of the 104 years since gilles de la tourette described the syndrome that bears his name, a body of carefully collected, described, and analyzed data has produced a model of the genetics that implicates a single dominant gene that is variably penetrant in males and females. moreover, the locus of action of this gene is most likely in the dopaminergic system of the midbrain. a systematic search for this gene using recombinant dna techniques is under way.
the diagnostic impact of prehospital 12-lead electrocardiography. study hypothesis: it is feasible to apply prehospital 12-lead electrocardiography to most stable prehospital chest pain patients. prehospital diagnostic accuracy is improved compared with single-lead telemetry. population: one-hundred sixty-six stable adult patients who sought paramedic evaluation for a chief complaint of nontraumatic chest pain. methods: one-hundred fifty-one prehospital 12-lead ecgs of diagnostic quality were obtained by paramedics on 166 adult patients presenting with nontraumatic chest pain. paramedics and base station physicians were blinded to the information on acquired prehospital 12-lead ecgs and treated patients according to current standard of care-clinical diagnosis and single-lead telemetry. final hospital diagnoses were classified into three groups: acute myocardial infarction (24); suspected angina or ischemia (61); and nonischemic chest pain (66). paramedics and base station physicians' clinical diagnoses and prehospital and emergency department ecgs were similarly classified and compared. prehospital and ed 12-lead ecgs were read retrospectively by two cardiologists. results: paramedics achieved a high success rate (98.7%) in obtaining diagnostic quality prehospital 12-lead ecgs in 94.6% of eligible prehospital patients. for patients with acute myocardial infarction, prehospital ecg alone had significantly higher specificity than did the paramedic clinical diagnosis (99.2% vs 70.9%; p less than .001), and significantly higher positive predictive value (92.9% vs 32.7%; p less than .001). for patients with angina, combining the paramedic clinical diagnosis and the prehospital ecg significantly improved sensitivity (90.2% vs 62.3%; p less than .001) and increased negative predictive value (88.9% vs 71.3%; p less than .02) compared with paramedic clinical diagnosis alone. there was a high concordance between prehospital and ed ecg diagnosis (99.3% for acute myocardial infarction and 92.8% for angina). furthermore, ten patients whose prehospital ecgs demonstrated ischemia and who had final hospital diagnoses of angina or acute myocardial infarction were mistriaged by paramedics and/or received no base station physician-directed therapy. conclusion: it is feasible to apply prehospital 12-lead electrocardiography to most stable prehospital chest pain patients. prehospital 12-lead ecgs have the potential to significantly increase the diagnostic accuracy in chest pain patients, approach congruity with ed 12-lead ecg diagnoses, and may allow for consideration of altering and improving prehospital and hospital-based management in this patient population.
the renally compromised older hypertensive: therapeutic considerations. although the slow progression of renal insufficiency caused by aging does not usually reach the clinical disease level, nephron loss may be accelerated by the concomitant presence of hypertension and renal artery atherosclerosis. treatment of hypertension and correction of other risk factors promoting atherosclerosis is appropriate in the elderly. consideration should be given to a search for reversible causes of renal functional deterioration in elderly patients, particularly in those with increasingly refractory hypertension. in the uncomplicated elderly hypertensive, renal function appears to be adequately preserved if blood pressure is well controlled, although there may be a subset in whom factors other than blood pressure itself, such as glomerular hemodynamic disturbances, promote progressive renal dysfunction.
interaction between trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and methotrexate in children with leukemia. because trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (tmp-smx) causes neutropenia in children with leukemia, we investigated the possibility that pharmacokinetic interaction between methotrexate (mtx) and tmp-smx causes accumulation of the antileukemia agent. we studied the pharmacokinetics of mtx given intravenously or orally to nine children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, once with and once without tmp-smx. there was an increase in free mtx fraction during tmp-smx therapy in all patients, from (mean +/- sd) 37.4 +/- 11% without tmp-smx to 52.2 +/- 6.4% with tmp-smx (p less than 0.01). plasma clearance of total mtx did not change significantly, whereas clearance of free mtx decreased significantly (from 12.5 +/- 4 to 7.6 +/- 1.5 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05). there was a consistent decrease in the renal clearance of free mtx (from 12.1 +/- 6.8 to 5.6 +/- 2.4 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05). elimination half-life of mtx was not affected significantly by tmp-smx. there was a significant correlation between serum concentrations of tmp-smx and the percentage of decrease in the renal clearance of free mtx (r = 0.91; p less than 0.05). these changes in protein binding and tubular clearance of mtx, caused by competition with tmp-smx, result in a mean 66% increase in systemic exposure to mtx and may explain the myelotoxicity often observed with the coadministration of the two drugs.
dna aneuploidy in follicular thyroid neoplasia. the potential value of dna aneuploidy, in distinguishing benign from malignant follicular thyroid neoplasms, was studied. the nuclear dna content of 65 follicular thyroid neoplasms (52 adenomas and 13 carcinomas) was determined by flow cytometric analysis of paraffin embedded material; in 58 cases preparations were technically satisfactory. in 22 follicular neoplasms dna analysis was also performed on fresh material obtained by fine needle aspiration of surgical specimens. cell cycle analysis was performed on both fresh and fixed specimens. an aneuploid dna profile was found on analysis of fixed tissue in eight of 45 (18 per cent) follicular adenomas and four of 13 (31 per cent) follicular carcinomas. dna aneuploidy was also found in six of the 22 (27 per cent) fresh preparations from follicular adenomas. the frequency of dna aneuploidy in apparently benign and malignant follicular neoplasms was similar. follicular thyroid neoplasia are best regarded as a single entity with a low incidence of local and distant spread. all follicular neoplasia are therefore best excised.
a small animal model of human helicobacter pylori active chronic gastritis. isolation of a spiral-shaped bacterium closely related to helicobacter pylori from the cat stomach made it possible to investigate new small animal models of gastric infection. pure cultures of this bacterium, provisionally named "helicobacter felis," were fed to germ-free mice. the organism colonized the stomach in large numbers in mucus and deep in the gastric pits and showed the same gastric trophism found with h. pylori. significant histopathology was seen in all h. felis-infected mice. at 2 weeks postinfection, an acute inflammatory response was seen composed primarily of eosinophils and neutrophils. at 3 weeks, the polymorphonuclear response was more pronounced with large numbers of neutrophils in some areas forming small microabscesses. lymphocytes also increased in number. by 8 weeks, several relatively large lymphoid nodules were present in the submucosa. multiple small microabscesses were still present in the pyloric mucosa. this is the first animal model of bacterial gastritis to be described that shows progression from acute inflammation to persistent acute on chronic inflammation (active chronic) as is seen in human infection with h. pylori.
a multicenter study of doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and concomitant intermittent claudication. this study assessed the efficacy and safety of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of patients (n = 19) with mild or moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure [dbp] 95 to 114 mm hg) and concomitant intermittent claudication (doppler ankle/arm ratio of less than 0.80 and walking tolerance of less than 700 m on the treadmill). after 14 weeks of treatment with doxazosin, a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in systolic blood pressure and dbp was observed. mean blood pressures were reduced from 170/100 mm hg at baseline to 161/93 mm hg at the end of treatment. minor changes in heart rate occurred, which with continued treatment were not statistically significant from baseline. in 12 of 16 (75.0%) efficacy-evaluable patients blood pressure was normalized (dbp to less than or equal to 90 mm hg with an greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline) with a mean daily dose of 7.6 mg/day. doxazosin improved the hypertension severity category in 13 of 16 (81.3%) patients. the blood pressure ratios between both the thighs and arms and ankles and arms showed no statistically significant changes after treatment with doxazosin. thigh blood flow at rest and the reactive hyperemia after 3 minutes of arterial occlusion did not change statistically. there was a tendency for pain-free distance to improve. laboratory data were not significantly changed after treatment with doxazosin. of the 19 patients studied, 5 reported mild or moderate side effects that were either tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment. no patient had therapy withdrawn and no patient required a dose reduction.
pyloric deformation from peptic disease. radiographic evidence for incompetence rather than obstruction. we have used double-contrast radiographic techniques to clarify what changes in the configuration and movements of the gastroduodenal junction result when peptic lesions involve the distal gastric segment between the proximal (ppl) and the distal pyloric muscle loop (dpl). among 50 cases of pyloric ulceration diagnosed during a four-year study period, 18 cases fulfilled all study criteria. ulcers maintained a consistent location with regard to the muscular structures of the pylorus, and by affecting these structures, led to many strange deformations of the gastric outlet including permanent pseudodiverticula and reversal of pyloric angulation. the most common site for peptic lesions in the pyloric segment was the protuberance of the lesser curvature called the pyloric torus; many torus lesions extended into and destroyed the dpl. this led to widening of the gastric outlet and radiographic evidence of increased duodenogastric reflux. pyloric closure was further impaired in this setting because the mucosa no longer prolapsed into the gastric outlet and did not occlude the pyloric lumen as it normally does. less common lesions involved the greater curvature and the ppl. in one patient, scarring of the ppl led to an antral web and gastric hyperperistalsis. this was the only patient who required operation for chronic gastric outlet obstruction. one-third of the 18 patients had reflux esophagitis in addition to peptic pyloric disease. in most patients without additional ulcerogenic risk factors, treatment with antisecretory agents led to the healing of ulcer craters. we conclude that the morphologic and functional changes of the gastric outlet caused by peptic lesions depend, in part, on the effect the ulcer has on the underlying pyloric musculature.
mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of different rodent strains: correlation with susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis. the frequency and pattern of mutations at codon 61 of the c-ha-ras gene have been analyzed in 195 liver tumors and 132 precancerous liver lesions from various rodent strains with differing susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis. by using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, c----a transversions at the first base and a----t transversions or a----g transitions at the second base of c-ha-ras codon 61 were detected in 20-60% of spontaneous or carcinogen-induced liver tumors of the c3h/he, cba, cf1, and b6c3f1 mouse strains, which are highly susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis. no such mutations, however, could be found in any of the 31 liver tumors of the insensitive c57bl/6j and balb/c mouse strains or in any of the 35 liver tumors of the comparatively resistant wistar rat. further analyses of c-ha-ras codon 12 mutations in liver tumors from the three insensitive rodent strains also failed to give any positive results. in early precancerous liver lesions, c-ha-ras codon 61 mutations were found in 13-14% of lesions of the sensitive c3h/he and b6c3f1 mouse strains but not in any of the 34 lesions of the insensitive c57bl/6j mouse. taken together, our results indicate a close correlation between the mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of the different rodent strains and their susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis, whereby the mutations appear to provide a selective growth advantage, leading to a clonal expansion of the mutated liver cell population, only in livers of sensitive but not of insensitive strains.
the association of selected cancers with service in the us military in vietnam. ii. soft-tissue and other sarcomas. the selected cancers cooperative study group as part of a series of investigations into the health of vietnam veterans, we conducted a population-based, case-control study of soft-tissue and other sarcomas between 1984 and 1988. all men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible. controls were selected by random-digit dialing. analyses of 342 men with pathologically confirmed sarcoma and 1776 controls showed that vietnam veterans had a relative risk of 1.0 for sarcoma in comparison with men who did not serve in vietnam (95% confidence interval, 0.6 to 1.6). restriction of the analysis to the 254 men with soft-tissue sarcoma yielded a relative risk of 0.9 (95% confidence interval, 0.5 to 1.6). several attributes of military service in vietnam (eg, branch, duration of service, military region, and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of agent orange) were examined, and none was associated with an increased risk for the development of sarcoma. furthermore, no morphologic type of sarcoma was overrepresented among vietnam veterans. results were unchanged if vietnam veterans were compared with (1) other veterans or (2) men who never served in the military. this study, which had 97% power to detect a relative risk of 2.0 for all sarcomas, provides no evidence that the risk for the development of soft-tissue or other sarcomas is increased among veterans 15 to 25 years following service in vietnam.
diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine and serious neurologic illness: an updated review of the epidemiologic evidence. a widespread impression that dtp vaccine does cause brain damage has been based first on historical precedent--smallpox and rabies vaccines were recognized as sometimes causing devastating neurologic illness; analogy to pertussis--the disease can cause encephalopathy; and more recently on anecdotal evidence, particularly case series. a noncausal relationship--coincidence--could explain the temporal relation between dtp vaccine and neurologic illness, inasmuch as dtp vaccine is given at the age of emergence of idiopathic neurologic disease. the relationship between dtp vaccine and neurologic illness lacks specificity. case series have had an impact on both physicians' and the lay public's impression of the safety of pertussis vaccine greatly out of proportion to their scientific importance. case series can be useful for generating hypotheses but cannot provide evidence that pertussis vaccine is causally related to acute neurologic illness or brain damage. observational studies using cohort and ecologic designs did not find an association between dtp vaccine and serious neurologic illness, but they were not powerful enough to detect an association as rare as that observed by the nces investigators. the case-control design offers the best chance of providing causal evidence regarding dtp vaccine and serious neurologic illness. the nces is the only published case-control study of this issue. this study found a rare association between dtp vaccine and some types of acute neurologic illness. bias and chance are unlikely to account entirely for the association demonstrated by the nces. however, the association has not yet been replicated by other case-control studies. the nces does not demonstrate that dtp vaccine causes permanent brain damage.
ultrasonic debridement during mitral valve reconstruction for calcified mitral stenosis. an ultrasonic device in conjunction with open mitral commissurotomy was applied in 8 patients with heavily calcified, stenosed mitral valves. in 6 patients, reconstruction of the mitral valve by debridement of the leaflet calcification with the device was successful. two patients required valve replacement because of an increase in preexistent mitral regurgitation caused by excessive decalcification. the ultrasonic device proved to be a useful and effective adjunct for salvaging the heavily calcified mitral valve, which would otherwise have to be replaced.
acute compartment syndrome. effect of dermotomy on fascial decompression in the leg. prompt surgical decompression is the only means of preventing the late sequelae of ischaemic contracture in post-traumatic compartment syndromes. however, controversy exists regarding the length of dermotomy required for adequate decompression in the lower extremity. this study investigated the skin envelope as a potential contributing factor. wide fascial releases were performed through limited 8 cm incisions in eight cases of post-traumatic lower extremity compartment syndrome. in nine of 29 compartments the pressure remained greater than 30 mmhg. lengthening the skin incisions to an average of 16 cm decreased intracompartmental pressures significantly. this study documents the skin envelope as a contributing factor in acute compartment syndromes of the leg. the use of generous skin incisions is supported and the need for intra-operative compartment pressure measurements in the treatment of this condition is emphasised.
renal effects of cyclosporine. renal dysfunction is a frequent consequence of cyclosporine administration, even when cyclosporine blood concentrations are maintained within proper therapeutic levels. as dermatologic indications for this compound expand, it is important for clinicians to understand the relevant pharmacology and physiology that underlie cyclosporine-induced renal dysfunction. this article reviews the clinical pharmacology of cyclosporine, the principles of renal function testing, and the clinical manifestations of this drug's effects on the kidney. sudden declines in kidney function, long-term cyclosporine nephrotoxicity, hemolytic-uremic syndrome, and hypertension are discussed from a clinical and experimental standpoint. finally, practical suggestions are provided to aid the dermatologist in managing cyclosporine-treated patients.
hormonal-metabolic stress responses in neonates undergoing cardiac surgery. hormonal and metabolic responses were measured in 15 neonates who underwent repair of complex congenital heart defects during a standardized anesthetic protocol. four of the 15 neonates died postoperatively in the intensive care unit. analysis of arterial plasma samples obtained before, during, and 24 h after surgery showed that plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, cortisol, glucagon, and beta endorphin increased in all patients (p less than 0.05). insulin levels increased only at the end of surgery but remained elevated for 24 h postoperatively (p less than 0.02). intraoperative metabolic changes were characterized by hyperglycemia and lactic acidemia that persisted postoperatively. this pattern of neonatal stress responses is distinct from and more extreme than that seen in adult cardiac surgical patients. the four neonates who died postoperatively tended to have higher stress responses intra- and postoperatively despite having been indistinguishable from survivors by the usual clinical and hemodynamic criteria. these preliminary results suggest that neonatal hormonal and metabolic responses to cardiac surgical operations in neonates are extreme and are associated with a high hospital mortality rate.
computerized tomography as an indicator of isolated mesenteric injury. a comparison with peritoneal lavage. this study evaluated 18 patients with blunt abdominal trauma who suffered isolated mesenteric injuries, diagnosed at exploratory laparotomy. thirteen had diagnostic peritoneal lavage (pl) as their initial diagnostic study, and five had computed tomography (ct). all patients who had positive pl were explored emergently, undergoing repair of mesenteric injuries. three of the five patients with ct as initial studies had delayed recognition of their injuries due to incorrect initial interpretation of the scan in two, and a false negative scan in one. two of these patients developed intestinal infarction and required bowel resection. there were no complications in the pl group related to surgery; morbidity was greater in those undergoing ct. we conclude that early laparotomy and repair of significant mesenteric injuries is necessary to reduce morbidity, and that pl is a more sensitive indicator of this injury than ct.
comparison of the effects of guanadrel sulfate and propranolol on blood pressure, functional capacity, serum lipoproteins and glucose in systemic hypertension. in a controlled, double-blind, crossover study, the effects of guanadrel sulfate and propranolol on blood pressure (bp) and selected cardiopulmonary and metabolic variables were compared in 15 physically active and moderately hypertensive subjects. guanadrel sulfate reduced systolic and diastolic bp at rest by -16 and -15 mm hg, and at maximal exercise by -33 and -13 mm hg, respectively (p less than 0.005), without affecting submaximal oxygen consumption (vo2), maximal vo2, ventilatory threshold, forced vital capacity, forced expiratory volume in 1 second, or fatigue, as assessed by perceived exertion. in contrast, propranolol significantly decreased diastolic bp at rest (-16 mm hg) and systolic bp at maximal exercise (-44 mm hg); however, it significantly decreased submaximal vo2 (-3.9 ml.kg-1.min-1), maximal vo2 (-3.9 ml.kg-1.min-1), ventilatory threshold (-0.3 liters.min-1), minute ventilation at submaximal exercise (-7.3 liters.min-1), forced expiratory volume in 1 second (-0.27 liters), and concomitantly increased the rating of perceived exertion at maximal exercise (1.9 u). guanadrel sulfate was also associated with significant decreases in mean fasting plasma glucose and total serum cholesterol, whereas propranolol resulted in an increase in serum triglycerides (p less than 0.05). in contrast to propranolol, guanadrel sulfate appears to decrease bp without evoking negative metabolic consequences or impairing exercise tolerance.
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. stagnara wake-up tests, blood flow measures, somatosensory evoked potentials (seps), and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at l3-l4. overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of nmeps. results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia. blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally. finally, nmeps were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than seps. nmeps should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than seps. because nmeps and seps provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts, the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery.
immunotherapy. neuroblastoma as a model. combinations of aggressive therapy and radiotherapy directed at the primary tumor site as well as dose intensive chemotherapy against metastases can effectively induce complete remissions in patients with stage iv neuroblastomas. by virtue of its tumor specificity, the use of immunotherapy at the time when microscopic residual disease is present holds great promise in eradicating the tumors permanently. monoclonal antibodies can accumulate selectively and at high concentrations in neuroblastomas. they have the potential of initiating complement activation and inflammation at the tumor site. hematopoietic factors and cytokines can reinforce the body with tumoricidal leukocytes. ex vivo activation of autologous white cells as well as arming by genetic manipulation can also produce tumor-seeking vehicles that may be therapeutically useful. as the knowledge of tumor and host immunobiology accumulates, the optimal combination of these approaches will become apparent.
distribution of cholesterol between vesicles and micelles in human gallbladder bile: influence of treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid. the present study aimed at determining the relative distribution of cholesterol between the vesicular and micellar phases in gallbladder bile of gallstone patients (n = 23) and gallstone-free subjects (n = 7). nine of the gallstone patients were treated with chenodeoxycholic acid and seven were treated with ursodeoxycholic acid, 15 mg/kg/day, for 3 wk before cholecystectomy. the vesicular and micellar fractions in bile were separated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation, and a clear separation between the two phases was obtained. the vesicles were further identified by quasielastic light scattering spectroscopy and appeared to be of a uniform size with a mean hydrodynamic radius of 760 a. the proportion of cholesterol in the vesicular fraction was significantly higher in the untreated gallstone group (40% +/- 4%) compared with the gallstone-free (28% +/- 3%), ursodeoxycholic acid (28% +/- 3%) and chenodeoxycholic acid (18% +/- 4%) groups. despite a low cholesterol saturation of bile in the latter three groups (88% +/- 12%, 51% +/- 9% and 65% +/- 5%, respectively), a considerable part of the biliary cholesterol was carried in the vesicular fraction. the cholesterol/phospholipid ratio in the vesicular fraction averaged between 0.49 and 0.58 in the gallstone, gallstone-free and chenodeoxycholic acid groups, whereas the ursodeoxycholic acid group had a significantly lower ratio of 0.24. the nucleation time of bile from the gallstone group was short (2 +/- 1 days) compared with the gallstone-free, chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid groups (23 +/- 3, 24 +/- 6 and 14 +/- 3 days, respectively.
probability of rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm after an unrelated operative procedure: a prospective study. it has been assumed by some authors that patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms may be at increased risk of rupture after unrelated operations. from july 1986 to december 1989, 33 patients (29 men, 4 women) with a known abdominal aortic aneurysm underwent 45 operations. twenty-eight patients had an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, and five patients had a thoracoabdominal aneurysm. the abdominal aortic aneurysm ranged in transverse diameter from 3.0 to 8.5 cm (average 5.6 cm). twenty-seven patients underwent a single operation, and six patients had two or more (range of 1 to 6). operations performed were abdominal (13); cardiothoracic (9); head/neck (2); other vascular (11); urologic (7); amputation (2); breast (1). general anesthesia was used in 29 procedures, spinal/epidural in 6, and regional/local in 10. one postoperative death occurred from cardiopulmonary failure. one patient died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm at 20 days after coronary artery bypass (1/33 patients [3%]; 1/45 operations [2%]). fourteen patients had repair of their abdominal aortic aneurysm at a later date, an average of 18 weeks after operation. four patients had abdominal aortic aneurysm considered too small to warrant resection (average 3.6 cm). four patients were considered at excessive risk for elective repair. the five thoracoabdominal aneurysm were not repaired. four patients are awaiting repair. during this same 40-month period, two other patients, not known to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm, died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm after another operative procedure, at 21 days and 77 days. all three ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms were 5.0 cm or greater in transverse diameter.
effect of lesion characteristics on outcome of directional coronary atherectomy. directional coronary atherectomy, a new transluminal procedure for treatment of obstructive lesions in coronary arteries by excision and removal of tissue, was performed on 447 lesions in 382 procedures. successful outcome, defined as a reduction of stenosis by greater than or equal to 20% with a less than 50% residual stenosis, was achieved in 89.5% of lesions and mean stenosis was reduced from 75.9 +/- 13.3% to 14.5 +/- 22.1% (p less than 0.001). complications included vessel occlusion during the procedure, 2.4%; vessel occlusion after the procedure, 1.3%; new lesion, 0.5%; nonobstructive guiding catheter-induced dissection, 0.3%; perforation, 0.8%; distal embolization, 2.1%; q wave myocardial infarction, 0.8% and non-q wave myocardial infarction, 4.2%. twelve patients (3.1%) required coronary artery bypass surgery for these complications. the atherectomy success rate was greater than 80% and the combined atherectomy and angioplasty success rate was greater than 90% for complex morphologic features such as eccentric lesions, lengthy lesions, lesions with abnormal contour, angulated lesions, ostial lesions and lesions with branch involvement. in the presence of calcific deposition, atherectomy success rate was 52% for primary lesions and 83% for restenosed lesions. among angiographically complex lesions, calcium was the predictor for failed atherectomy (p less than 0.0001). in summary, directional coronary atherectomy is safe and effective for treatment of obstructive lesions in coronary arteries in selected cases. in particular, it achieves a high success rate in lesions with complex morphologic characteristics, such as eccentricity, abnormal contour and ostial involvement.
does cholesterol screening result in negative labeling effects? results of the massachusetts model systems for blood cholesterol screening project. several previous studies that looked at the effects of labeling individuals as hypertensive found increases in psychosocial distress, diminished feelings of well-being, or absenteeism. other studies found no such effects. thus far, similar studies relating to labeling for high blood cholesterol levels have not been published. the massachusetts model systems for blood cholesterol screening project investigated whether labeling effects occurred as a result of the community-based screening, education, and referral programs it conducted in worcester and lowell. nine questions concerning perceptions of physical and psychological well-being were asked on a questionnaire given to screening participants. the same questions were asked as part of a follow-up questionnaire given to all individuals identified as having high blood cholesterol levels at one of the screenings. comparison of the baseline and follow-up results did not demonstrate significant overall negative effects among any age, sex, racial, income, or educational groups. on the contrary, responses to many of the questions revealed small but statistically significant improvements in perceptions of physical and psychological well-being. the absence of negative labeling effects may be attributable to the positive, supportive approach to participant counseling taken by the project.
indications of the carbon dioxide laser in tracheobronchial pathology of the infant and young child: 14 cases. fourteen children aged between 6 months and 7 years (mean age = 3.5 years) were treated by co2 broncholaser in the ent department of trousseau hospital. three groups of diagnostic indication were identified: 1. granulomas treated after mucosal trauma (tracheotomy, foreign body). 2. granulomas due to pulmonary and/or lymph node tuberculosis. 3. adhesions and stenosis secondary to neonatal ventilation. the operative and anesthetic technique is described in detail, together with any possible adverse events. the co2 broncholaser appears to be a technique of choice in this age group, in which the narrowness of the airways makes any endoscopic procedure difficult. the broncholaser allows the early treatment of obstructive tracheobronchial pathology with its risks of severe ventilatory sequelae.
transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of left atrial appendage aneurysm. intrapericardial left atrial appendage aneurysm is rare. we describe the transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiographic findings in a 42-year-old man with atrial arrhythmia and an abnormal left atrial appendage on chest roentgenogram. presence of an intrapericardial left atrial appendage aneurysm was confirmed at surgery.
continuing care for cancer pain relief with oral morphine solution. one-year experience in a regional cancer center. this report is a prospective study of 223 patients with intractable cancer pain who were offered continuing care during the year 1988 at the pain relief unit, kidwai memorial institute of oncology, bangalore, india, with a minimum follow-up of 4 months and a maximum follow-up of 16 months. a high percentage of pain relief was attained within a mean duration of 4 days, which on follow-up was maintained at a steady level in most patients (91.1%). oral morphine could not be continued in three patients because of vomiting. the main side effects noticed were nausea and vomiting, itching, and constipation. at any time during the first 140 days, only 30% of patients had side effects and appropriate medication successfully managed these side effects. during the rest of the study period, the side effects were minimal. oral morphine used with proper adjuncts offers the best pain palliation in most patients, with minimal side effects.
abscess of the iliopsoas muscle diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography. we have reported a case of abscess of the iliopsoas muscle, in which a limp and hip pain pointed toward pathology of the hip. the diagnosis in such cases may be difficult unless there is close attention to the clinical history and a good physical examination is obtained. one ultrasonographic examination of the hip in such a patient, subtle differences between the iliopsoas muscles should alert the radiologist to examine the psoas muscle. ultrasonography is instrumental in demonstrating the solid or cystic nature of the iliopsoas mass, while mri depicts the extent and proximity of adjacent organs. once an iliopsoas abscess is diagnosed, treatment includes parenteral antibiotics and drainage.
assessment of the risk of bleeding from esophageal varices by continuous monitoring of portal pressure. portal pressure was monitored by means of an indwelling hepatic vein balloon catheter in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and bleeding varices to determine the safety and feasibility of the technique and its value in predicting recurrence of bleeding. forty patients were enrolled. central venous access could not be achieved in 4 patients (10%). hepatic vein catheterization was accomplished in the remaining 36 patients. fourteen patients were either later found to have nonalcoholic liver disease or had already received treatment that excluded them from the protocol. the remaining 22 patients, who were treated with blood and fluid replacement, were monitored for up to 72 hours. portal pressure was greater than 11 mm hg in all patients (normal, less than 5 mm hg) and did not change significantly over the 3 days of study. portal pressure was significantly higher in the 9 patients who continued to bleed or rebled compared with the 13 patients who remained stable. the lowest pressure associated with continued bleeding or rebleeding was 16 mm hg. continuous monitoring of portal pressure in patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to alcoholic cirrhosis is safe and feasible and permits rapid stratification of the risk of continued bleeding or early rebleeding.
spontaneous neurodegeneration in transgenic mice with mutant prion protein transgenic mice were created to assess genetic linkage between gerstmann-straussler-scheinker syndrome and a leucine substitution at codon 102 of the human prion protein gene. spontaneous neurologic disease with spongiform degeneration and gliosis similar to that in mouse scrapie developed at a mean age of 166 days in 35 mice expressing mouse prion protein with the leucine substitution. thus, many of the clinical and pathological features of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker syndrome are reproduced in transgenic mice containing a prion protein with a single amino acid substitution, illustrating that a neurodegenerative process similar to a human disease can be genetically modeled in animals.
exposure of the intracavernous carotid artery in aneurysm surgery. the pterional intradural approach was used in five cases of large and giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms and in two cases of intracavernous aneurysms that arose from the anterior siphon knee in the cavernous sinus (cs) and extended into the carotid cistern. in four cases of large carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms removal of the anterior clinoid process and the roof of the optic canal gave easy access to the pericarotid ring. the anteromedial part of the pericarotid ring was dissected to expose the extradural portion of the internal carotid artery (ica) proximal to the neck and to make enough room between the wall of the cs and the extradural portion of the ica, thus allowing easy clipping of the neck. in one case of a giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysm extending into the cs with an extradural origin of the ophthalmic artery and in two cases of an intracavernous aneurysm arising from the siphon knee, neck clipping was performed by opening the lateral wall and roof of the cs after removal of the optic strut. the opening of the lateral wall anterior to the 3rd nerve facilitated wide exposure of the anterior siphon knee. the horizontal portion of the intracavernous ica as well as the whole aspect of the aneurysm could be exposed as a result of the extended opening of the cavernous roof anterior to the posterior clinoid process. successful operative results were obtained in all seven patients. a visual field detect as an operative complication was noted in one patient. no disturbance of ocular movements was noted.
tgf-alpha is widely expressed in differentiated as well as hyperproliferative skin epithelium. transforming growth factor-alpha (tgf-alpha) is a potent mitogen for epithelial cells that is expressed at low levels in normal epidermis and overexpressed in psoriasis. epidermal growth factor (egf) has been shown to inhibit hair growth but stimulate the growth of sebaceous and sweat glands, suggesting a potential role for a member of the egf/tgf-alpha family in the normal development and function of skin appendages as well as epidermis. the present work demonstrates tgf-alpha protein in eccrine ducts, and eccrine, sebaceous, and apocrine glands. the proliferative dermal hair bulb does not express tgf-alpha in contrast to the differentiated outer root sheath hair follicle epithelia. in addition, hyperproliferative skin diseases including bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma, squamous cell carcinoma, and psoriasis show increased tgf-alpha expression. thus, tgf-alpha may play a role in the morphogenesis and function of normal skin appendages and its overexpression is common in benign and malignant hyperproliferative skin diseases.
combined radiologic and retrograde endoscopic and biliary interventions. methods of treating complex biliary duct problems by a team composed of an endoscopist and interventional radiologist are described. these procedures are of two types: those in which all manipulations are performed through the endoscope and those in which an antegrade transhepatic and a retrograde endoscopic approach are combined.
frontal sinus carcinoma presenting as acute sinusitis. primary carcinoma of the frontal sinus is extremely rare. the aetiology of the tumour remains obscure, and even with rapid diagnosis and radical surgery the prognosis remains very poor.
flow cytometric dna content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland. correlation of histologic features and prognosis. flow cytometric analysis of nuclear dna content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived, paraffin-embedded tissues. the dna content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course. ten carcinomas (38%) were aneuploid and 16 (62%) diploid. aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture, lymph node metastases, and advanced clinical stage, as compared with diploid carcinomas. other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal dna content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension. our data suggest that dna content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma.
oral contraception in disease states. oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease, ischemic heart attack, or cerebral stroke. patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation, because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding. patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery. migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications, depending on the individual situation. long-term diseases, such as crohn's disease, epilepsy, and sickle cell anemia, also require individualized consultation.
nitrous oxide does not alter infarct volume in rats undergoing reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion. this experiment was designed to determine if nitrous oxide alters neurologic and pathologic outcome from temporary focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats deeply anesthetized with a barbiturate. two groups of rats were given intravenous methohexital such that a stable eeg pattern of burst suppression was achieved. in one group of rats (n = 11), the lungs were mechanically ventilated with 70% n2o/30% o2, and in the other group (n = 10), ventilation was done with 70% nitrogen/30% o2. the middle cerebral artery was then occluded for 2 h, during which time mean arterial pressure, blood gases, hematocrit, plasma glucose, and head temperature were held constant between groups. the total doses of methohexital administered were similar in both groups as were the plasma methohexital concentrations immediately prior to onset of ischemia. after reperfusion of the middle cerebral artery, the animals were allowed to awaken. neurologic evaluations were performed prior to ischemia and at 24 and 96 h postischemia. cerebral infarct volume was measured at 96 h postischemia using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining and computer imaging techniques. there were no neurologic differences between the n2o and nitrogen groups at any experimental interval although both groups exhibited deficits at both 24 and 96 h postischemia relative to preischemic values. the two groups also had nearly identical cerebral infarct volumes (n2o = 231 +/- 97 mm3; nitrogen = 226 +/- 75 mm3; mean +/- sd).
pancreatic involvement in human immunodeficiency virus infection. involvement of the pancreas by human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection has not been adequately addressed and is the object of this review. i analyzed the english language literature, including single case reports of pancreatic involvement and larger series reporting detailed pathological findings of patients with hiv infection. nonspecific pathological changes in the pancreas are frequently seen at autopsy of hiv-infected patients, but are not more common than in controls. several types of infections (mainly cytomegalovirus, cryptococcus neoformans, and mycobacteria) and neoplasms (lymphoma and kaposi's sarcoma) can involve the pancreas because they are usually disseminated. although the serum amylase may be elevated, the patient remains asymptomatic. occasional instances of severe and even fatal pancreatitis have been reported with hiv infections and attendant drug toxicity. pentamidine has a predictable incidence of hypoglycemic episodes and 2',3'-dideoxyinosine provokes pancreatitis in a minority of treated patients. such drug toxicity seems to deserve greater clinical concern than opportunistic infections or neoplasms.
anti-atherosclerotic and vasculoprotective actions of calcium antagonists. treatment of hypertension may prevent many of the complications attributable to blood pressure elevation, particularly those that are "pressure-related," such as stroke. however, the atherosclerotic complications of hypertension, e.g., coronary artery disease manifested as coronary morbidity and mortality, have not been reduced significantly with antihypertensive therapy. this disappointing outcome may reflect the adverse metabolic effects of the traditional therapies, diuretics and beta blockers, and their lack of specific vasoprotective properties. increasing attention is thus being paid to the newer antihypertensive agents, which typically have fewer adverse effects and perhaps more physiologic mechanisms of antihypertensive action. since calcium plays a key role in the genesis of atherosclerosis, calcium antagonists may positively affect the course of vascular disease. investigators have observed that calcium antagonists display clear antiatherosclerotic properties in experimental as well as clinical studies. in one recently published clinical study, coronary artery disease was shown to develop more slowly, with a slower progression of individual stenoses, higher regression rate and less frequent occurrence of new lesions in patients treated chronically with verapamil compared to those receiving conventional therapies. other similar investigations are currently under way to evaluate the antiatherogenic properties of calcium antagonists, including the frankfurt isoptin progression study (fips), the multicenter isradipine diuretic atherosclerosis study (midas), the international nifedipine trial on atherosclerosis coronary therapy (intact), and the large-scale montreal heart institute study. results of these studies, which use precise end points such as myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction and peripheral vascular disease, may revolutionize the treatment of hypertension by identifying therapeutic approaches that control both the pressure-related and atherosclerotic complications of the disease.
chiari pelvic osteotomy for osteoarthritis secondary to hip dysplasia. indications and long-term results. of 142 chiari pelvic osteotomies for osteoarthritis in dysplastic hips, most performed by chiari himself, we were able to review 82 and obtain information about 18 by questionnaire. all patients were over 30 years of age at operation; follow-up averaged 15.5 years. twenty hips had undergone secondary total hip replacement. the outcome was good in 75%, fair in 9% and poor in 16%. high osteotomies all gave good results, and the result also depended on adequate medialisation. statistics were worse for patients over 44 years of age at the time of operation. for osteoarthritis secondary to hip dysplasia, the chiari pelvic osteotomy is an alternative procedure to early hip replacement. in contrast to intertrochanteric osteotomy, it has the advantage of facilitating the implantation of an acetabular prosthesis should arthroplasty become necessary at a later stage.
lymphoma, motor neuron diseases, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. we studied 9 patients with motor neuron disease and lymphoma. the following several observations have not been recognized in the past: (1) motor neuron syndromes are associated with either hodgkin's disease or non-hodgkin's lymphoma. (2) the syndromes are not restricted to lower motor neuron disorders; 8 of 9 patients had definite or probable upper motor neuron signs as well, qualifying for the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. corticospinal tracts were affected in both postmortem examinations. (3) the combination of motor neuron disease and lymphoma is often accompanied by paraproteinemia (3 of 7 patients studied), increased cerebrospinal fluid protein content (6 of 9 patients), and cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands (3 of 9 patients). (4) in 2 patients, asymptomatic non-hodgkin's lymphoma was found only because the discovery of paraproteinemia gave impetus to examine the bone marrow. (5) patients with both upper and lower motor neuron signs (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) may show physiological evidence of conduction block in peripheral nerves or autopsy abnormalities in peripheral nerves. the cause of this syndrome is not known. both lymphoma and motor neuron disease could have a common cause, possibly a retroviral infection. the frequency of paraproteinemia suggests that an immunological disorder may play a role in the pathogenesis of the neurological disorder.
controlled discontinuation of benzodiazepine treatment for patients with panic disorder. objective: the purpose of this study was to compare the effects of discontinuing treatment with intermediate- and long-acting benzodiazepines. method: fifty patients with panic disorder who had taken part in a double-blind treatment study and had responded to alprazolam, diazepam, or placebo for 8 months were asked to stop taking these medications gradually. results: after a relatively rapid dose reduction, the majority of patients relapsed. rebound anxiety and withdrawal symptoms were identified in a substantial minority of patients. those who were taking alprazolam showed earlier and more intense rebound anxiety and withdrawal symptoms than did the patients who received diazepam. both the level of pretreatment anxiety and the drug the patient was taking predicted the level of anxiety when drug treatment was discontinued. conclusions: the findings indicate that withdrawal phenomena commonly occur after patients stop taking benzodiazepines and that they are more frequent after discontinuation of treatment with shorter-acting drugs.
specificity of affective and autonomic symptoms of depression in parkinson's disease. previous investigators have suggested that numerous symptoms used to diagnose depression, such as sleep or appetite disturbance, are non-specific in medically ill patients, and alternative diagnostic criteria should be developed. in the study this hypothesis was tested in parkinson's disease (pd) by comparing patients with pd who reported a depressive mood with patients having pd but without a depressive mood. depressed patients showed a significantly higher frequency of both autonomic and affective symptoms of depression. depressed patients with pd reported a significantly higher frequency of worrying, brooding, loss of interest, hopelessness, suicidal tendencies, social withdrawal, self-depreciation, ideas of reference, anxiety symptoms, loss of appetite, initial and middle insomnia, and loss of libido when compared with non-depressed patients. no significant between-group differences, however, were observed in the frequency of anergia, motor retardation, and early morning awakening.
splenic artery aneurysm rupture [published erratum appears in am j emerg med 1991 mar;9(2):205] splenic artery aneurysms are rare and usually asymptomatic. however, rupture can produce severe abdominal pain and prove lethal. two cases of ruptured splenic artery aneurysm are presented. in one, cocaine injection occurred immediately prior to the onset of symptoms and may have precipitated the event.
a severe multisystem reaction to sulindac. we present a case of a severe reaction to sulindac. a 30-year-old woman with quiescent systemic lupus erythematosus received sulindac for nonspecific migrating chest pain. an initial course of therapy produced an unrecognized sensitization to the drug with a febrile illness and rash. readministration of the drug caused an anaphylactoid reaction as well as evidence of cardiovascular, hepatic, pulmonary, and hematologic dysfunction. the patient's illness had evidence of types i, ii, and iii hypersensitivity reactions.
prognostic implications of dna histogram, dna content, and histologic changes of regional lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer. forty-six cases of resected lung cancer, including 20 cases at stages i and ii and 26 cases at stage iii (n2), were subdivided into two groups: a good prognosis group with a longer survival period and a poor prognosis group in which the patients died earlier of the cancer. from paraffin-embedded lymph node tissues of these patients, the authors examined dna histogram pattern and dna content, using flow cytometry, and histologic hyperplasia of germinal center and paracortical area; they also evaluated their correlation with the prognosis. in the good prognosis group at stages i and ii, paracortical hyperplasia (ph) of the lymph nodes was observed significantly more frequently. in the good prognosis group at stage iii, the incidence of ph, g2m phase in the dna histograms, and dna content were all significantly higher. dna content was positively correlated with the grade of ph.
ataxia and peripheral neuropathy: a benign variant of peroxisome dysgenesis. a 5-year-old boy with panperoxisomal dysfunction is described. clinical features included hypotonia, areflexia, and ataxia. cognition, vision, hearing, and hepatic function were normal. a panel of peroxisomal markers, including very-long-chain fatty acids, phytanic acid, pipecolic acid, and catalase compartmentalization, were abnormal. this is a uniquely benign syndrome of disordered peroxisome biogenesis.
amphotericin b vs high-dose ketoconazole for empirical antifungal therapy among febrile, granulocytopenic cancer patients. a prospective, randomized study. we compared high-dose ketoconazole (800 mg/kg per day, orally) with amphotericin b (0.5 mg/kg per day, intravenously) for empirical antifungal therapy in a prospective, randomized study of persistently or recurrently febrile granulocytopenic cancer patients. among 97 patients eligible for empirical antifungal therapy, 20 (21%) of these patients were ineligible for randomization to ketoconazole treatment because of their inability to tolerate oral medications. among 72 patients eligible for randomization, 64 were assessable (32 in each arm of the study). five of six patients with proved fungal infections who were randomized to receive ketoconazole treatment required crossover to amphotericin b treatment because of progressive infection. the conditions of three of these five patients improved after receiving amphotericin b. the frequency of transaminase elevation was higher in those receiving ketoconazole, while the frequency of azotemia was higher in those receiving amphotericin b. bioavailability of ketoconazole was unpredictable. amphotericin b remains the drug of choice for empirical antifungal therapy in granulocytopenic patients; whereas, lack of a parenteral formulation, ineffectiveness against proved mycoses, and unreliable bioavailability preclude high-dose ketoconazole from being an appropriate compound for this purpose.
normal pituitary gland: coronal mr imaging of infundibular tilt. to determine the prevalence of pituitary infundibular deviation or tilt as a normal variant, coronal magnetic resonance (mr) images of 50 patients who had been examined for reasons other than pituitary disease were evaluated retrospectively. forty-six percent of the patients had a more or less pronounced tilt of the pituitary stalk. this tilt was due to developmental lateral eccentricity of the pituitary gland in relationship to the midline of the brain in 34% and to ontogenic eccentric insertion of the pituitary infundibulum off the midline of the gland in the other 12%. this high frequency of stalk deviation in patients without pituitary disease suggests that such displacement by itself should not be used to support the presence of pituitary microadenoma on mr images or computed tomograms.
adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump. we have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump. because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs, symptoms, or radiologic features, preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult, and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities.
trolox protects rat hepatocytes against oxyradical damage and the ischemic rat liver from reperfusion injury. trolox, a hydrophilic analog of vitamin e, was reported to scavenge peroxyl radicals from artificial systems better than its parent compound. here we examined the possible cytoprotective effect of trolox in cultured hepatocytes and in the rat liver. in cultured rat hepatocytes, 0.5 to 16 mmol/l trolox (with optimum between 1 to 2 mmol/l) was observed to prolong the survival of cells exposed to oxyradicals generated with xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine. the protection by 1 mmol/l trolox surpassed that provided by either ascorbate, mannitol, superoxide dismutase and/or catalase--each at a level giving its maximal protection in the same system. in both a global and partial model of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in rats, infusion of trolox (7.5 to 10 mumol/kg body weight) just before reflow reduced by greater than 80% the liver necrosis sustained in untreated (no trolox) control rats. such organ salvage was apparently accompanied by approximately 50% reduction in the amount of hepatic conjugated dienes, which were quantified by a highly specific radiochemical assay. since conjugated dienes are presumed to be good "markers" of oxyradical damage, our data may have provided a semiquantitative link between free radical-induced necrosis and its chemical imprint in vivo. the data also indicated a relatively rapid and potent antioxidant-like action by trolox on rat hepatocytes and on the postischemic reperfused rat liver.
cyclosporin-associated akinetic mutism and extrapyramidal syndrome after liver transplantation. three patients developed akinetic mutism on the third day after the introduction of intravenous cyclosporin a, given for immunosuppression after liver transplantation. one patient in addition developed a florid orofacial dyskinesia, which resolved completely, as did the akinetic mutism, after withdrawal of cyclosporin. in these patients the time course of the akinetic mutism and extrapyramidal syndrome, which developed in the absence of any other identifiable cause, suggests cyclosporin a was the precipitating factor. subsequently, two of the patients showed signs of pseudobulbar palsy with abnormalities in the pons on mri scanning, suggesting central pontine myelinolysis (cpm). none of the patients had experienced significant fluctuations in serum sodium or other risk factors for central pontine myelinolysis and the exact relationship to the earlier cyclosporin related mutism was not clear.
radioimmunoguided surgery using iodine 125 b72.3 in patients with colorectal cancer. preliminary data using b72.3 murine monoclonal antibody labeled with iodine 125 suggested that both clinically apparent as well as occult sites of colorectal cancer could be identified intraoperatively using a hand-held gamma detecting probe. we report the preliminary data of a multicenter trial of this approach in patients with primary or recurrent colorectal cancer. one hundred four patients with primary, suspected, or known recurrent colorectal cancer received an intravenous infusion of 1 mg of b72.3 monoclonal antibody radiolabeled with 7.4 x 10 bq of iodine 125. twenty-six patients with primary colorectal cancer and 72 patients with recurrent colorectal cancer were examined. using the gamma detecting probe, 78% of the patients had localization of the antibody in their tumor; this included 75% of primary tumor sites and 63% of all recurrent tumor sites; 9.2% of all tumor sites identified represented occult sites detected only with the gamma detecting probe. the overall sensitivity was 77% and a predictive value of a positive detection was 78%. a total of 30 occult sites in 26 patients were identified. in patients with recurrent cancer, the antibody study provided unique data that precluded resection in 10 patients, and in another eight patients it extended the potentially curative procedure.
retroviral expression of transforming growth factor-alpha does not transform fibroblasts or keratinocytes. transforming growth factor alpha (tgf alpha) is a peptide so named because it helps to impart anchorage-independent growth to normal rat kidney (nrk) cells in vitro and is secreted by many rodent and human tumor cells. to directly investigate the transforming properties of this factor, we constructed a replication-defective murine retrovirus that expresses the human sequence coding for tgf alpha. infection of nih/3t3 cells with the tgf alpha retrovirus led to the integration of a transcriptionally active provirus and overexpression of biologically active tgf alpha, but failed to induce morphologic transformation. similarly, the tgf alpha retrovirus failed to induce morphologic transformation of five other types of rodent fibroblasts. we also investigated the effect of tgf alpha expression on the growth of balb/mk mouse keratinocytes, which require epidermal growth factor (egf) for proliferation. we show that exogenously added tgf alpha is an extremely potent mitogen for balb/mk cells. however, retroviral expression of tgf alpha in balb/mk cells failed to relieve dependence on exogenously added egf (or tgf alpha) for cell growth. these results suggest that overexpression of tgf alpha does not, by itself, transform rodent fibroblasts or keratinocytes.
the abdominal trauma index--a critical reassessment and validation. the abdominal trauma index (ati) was devised to quantify the risk of complications following abdominal trauma. with scores greater than 25, the risk of postoperative complications became exponential. the purpose of the present study was to determine if: 1) the organ risk factors previously assigned were more statistically valid; and 2) the addition of physiologic variables would enhance the prediction of postinjury intra-abdominal sepsis. fifteen abdominal organ systems and 17 physiologic variables in 300 consecutive patients were analyzed to determine ability to predict intraabdominal sepsis. there were no significant differences in predictive ability between the old and new organ risk factors. the addition of physiologic factors did not enhance the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis. this clinical study demonstrates that: 1) the risk of intra-abdominal sepsis increases with increasing ati score; 2) the previous (1979-initial) organ risk grading concept is statistically valid; 3) six of the 15 organ systems warrant a change in their relative rank order (1989-revision); 4) the addition of demographic, physiologic, and immunologic variables did not significantly improve the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis.
are blood pressure levels increasing in denmark? the copenhagen city heart study is a prospective cardiovascular population study designed to evaluate the incidence of and risk factors for cardiovascular disease. a random population sample comprising approximately 20,000 individuals was invited to participate. blood pressure was measured, and information regarding the use of antihypertensive medication was collected in an initial survey during the period 1976-1978 (attendance rate 74%) and from a second survey during the period 1981-1983 (attendance rate 70%). a significant increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure between survey 1 and survey 2 was found among both men and women greater than 40 years of age and not using antihypertensive medication. the increase in blood pressure in the follow-up survey could not be explained by changes in methods, changes in the prescription of antihypertensive medication, or selection bias. factors associated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were examined by multiple linear regression analysis. both increase in body mass index and increase in alcohol consumption were positively correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, while use of antihypertensive medication, a high value of body mass index at survey 1 and a high level of education were negatively correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. female sex and advanced age were also negatively correlated with changes in diastolic blood pressure. consumption of tobacco and alcohol, income and changes in consumption of tobacco were not significantly correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
multiple primary malignancies in patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. the incidence of multiple primary malignancies (mpm) was analysed in 1297 patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. the patients were followed for a minimum of six years or until death. the incidence of mpm was 3.4 per cent (44/1297) which is lower in patients with malignant tumours of other regions in the upper aerodigestive tract. five of the 44 patients had second malignancies within previously irradiated areas. there was a difference between the proportion of histologies occurring in irradiated tissues compared with the overall 1297 patients. this finding suggests that radiotherapy may induce a second cancer.
acute cholangitis. cholangitis is an infection of the biliary ductal system that results from the combination of bactibilia and biliary obstruction. choledocholithiasis has been the leading cause of cholangitis. however, in recent years, especially at tertiary referral centers, nonoperative biliary manipulations, often in patients with unresectable malignancies, have become the most common cause of cholangitis. as a result, the complete triad of fever and chills, jaundice, and abdominal pain, as originally described by charcot, is now seen less frequently. most patients still have leukocytosis and abnormal liver function tests, but many patients with indwelling tubes may develop cholangitis without significant jaundice. e. coli, klebsiella species, and the enterococci remain the most frequently isolated organisms, and anaerobes including bacteroides fragilis are recovered in 15% to 30% of patients. however, enterobacter and pseudomonas species, as well as yeasts, are now being isolated more frequently from patients with indwelling tubes, who often have been treated previously with antibiotics. computed cholangiography usually is necessary to determine the cause and site of biliary obstruction. in the majority of patients with cholangitis, cholangiography can be delayed until the patient has been afebrile for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours. initial therapy includes bowel rest, intravenous fluids, and antibiotics. many antibiotic regimens are now available to cover the gram-negative aerobes, the enterococcus, and the anaerobes that are likely to be causing the biliary infection. the combination of a penicillin and an aminoglycoside has been the gold standard. however, recent studies suggest that the newer broad-spectrum penicillins provide adequate therapy for these patients. only a small percentage (5%-10%) of patients with toxic cholangitis require emergency biliary decompression. the choice of percutaneous or endoscopic drainage should be made on the basis of the presumed site and cause of obstruction as well as local expertise. the nature of the biliary obstruction may be the most important determinant of outcome. at present, patients with end-stage malignant obstruction account for most of the deaths, whereas approximately 95% of patients survive an episode of cholangitis.
suggestive evidence that pelvic endometriosis is a progressive disease, whereas deeply infiltrating endometriosis is associated with pelvic pain. in a 3-year prospective study of 643 consecutive laparoscopies for infertility, pelvic pain, or infertility and pain, the pelvic area, the depth of infiltration, and the volume of endometriotic lesions were evaluated. the incidence, area, and volume of subtle lesions decreased with age, whereas for typical lesions these parameters and the depth of infiltration increased with age. deeply infiltrating endometriosis was strongly associated with pelvic pain, women with pain having larger and deeper lesions. because deep endometriosis has little emphasis in the revised american fertility society classification and after analyzing the diagnoses made in each class, considerations for a simplifying revision with inclusion of deep lesions are suggested. in conclusion, suggestive evidence is presented to support the concept that endometriosis is a progressive disorder, and it is demonstrated that deep endometriosis is strongly associated with pelvic pain.
resolution of inferior vena cava syndrome after embolization of a hepatic adenoma. a 77-year-old man presented with severe pruritus and massive lower body edema. computerized axial tomography of the abdomen showed a large hepatic mass compressing the inferior vena cava, and a liver biopsy specimen showed hepatic adenoma. embolization of vessels feeding the hepatic tumor resulted in complete resolution of pruritus and ascites, and clinical remission has persisted for 1 year following partial obliteration of tumor vasculature. angiographic ablation of tumor blood supply represents a nonoperative means for inducing clinical remission in patients with symptomatic hepatic adenoma who are at high surgical risk.
further notes on munchausen's syndrome: a case report of a change from acute abdominal to neurological type. a rare case of munchausen's syndrome beginning in early childhood is described. the diagnosis of munchausen's syndrome was made at the age of 29 years, after the symptoms had changed from acute abdominal to neurological complaints, with feigned loss of consciousness, first ascribed to an encephalitis. insight into the psychopathology of this patient is given by his biography, by assessment of a psychotherapist, who had treated him some years before, and by his observed profile in some psychological tests.
small bowel obstruction associated with a leiomyomatous uterus. a case report and review of the literature. a 38-year-old woman developed small bowel obstruction shortly after a cholecystectomy because of a massively enlarged leiomyomatous uterus. small bowel obstruction is a relatively rare complication from fibroid tumors and results from entrapment of the bowel between serosal pedunculated fibroids (as in this patient), adhesions to infarcted leiomyomas, or from compression of the small bowel by the large mass. large uterine leiomyomas clearly must be considered in the etiology of intestinal obstruction.
coexistence of testicular carcinoma and hairy cell leukemia. the coexistence of two relatively rare disorders in 1 patient often induces speculation about possible cause and effect of these disorders. the suitable therapeutic regimen for both diseases and roentgenologic manifestations are described.
is the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor with interferon not as successful as suggested? eight patients with metastatic carcinoid tumor, seven of whom had symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome, were treated with either human leukocyte interferon (seven patients) or recombinant alpha-interferon (ifn alpha-2b) (one patient) at doses of 4.5 to 21 x 10(6) iu weekly for 1 to 21 (mean, 8.5) months. tumor regression on computed tomography (ct) scan was found in one patient, the ct findings remained unchanged in three, and the tumor progressed in four patients. a clearcut and continuing decrease in urinary levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-hiaa) was observed in one patient and a transient one in four patients. the symptoms improved in only two of seven patients. four patients had leukopenia develop, which was circumvented by reducing the dose. the authors conclude that interferon therapy of the carcinoid tumor is not as successful as has been suggested in previous reports.
magnitude and time course of extracellular potassium inhomogeneities during acute ischemia in pigs. effect of verapamil. prior studies have demonstrated the presence of inhomogeneities in myocardial [k+]e after serial 10-minute occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in the pig, even within restricted locations of an ischemic zone. these inhomogeneities are thought to underlie the electrophysiological abnormalities responsible for lethal ventricular arrhythmias through reentrant and nonreentrant pathways, but a clear association has not been demonstrated. as a prerequisite to establishing this association, these studies were performed to establish measurement standards for [k+]e inhomogeneity, to quantify the magnitude and time course of these inhomogeneities, to determine whether the inhomogeneities are greater in the ischemic border where lethal ventricular arrhythmias are known to originate, and to assess the effect of a known antifibrillatory drug on [k+]e inhomogeneities. [k+]e (expressed as the change in potassium equilibrium potential, dek [mv]) was measured in 15 preparations using an average of 17 closely spaced, critically calibrated k(+)-sensitive electrodes having stable response characteristics. a series of four 10-minute occlusions each separated by a 50-minute reperfusion period were performed in each study. in half of the studies, intravenous verapamil (0.2 mg/kg bolus followed by 0.0065 mg/kg/hr) was administered before the fourth occlusion. in nine studies (five control and four verapamil), electrodes were placed in the marginal ischemic zone (from 2 mm outside to 5 mm inside the visible cyanotic border). in six other studies (three control and three verapamil), electrodes were placed in the central ischemic zone (10-20 mm within the ischemic region). we determined that the standard deviation is the best measure of inhomogeneity and that 12 equivalent measurement sites are required to estimate it with a satisfactory degree of statistical confidence. we found that after 10 minutes of ischemia, mean dek was 1.6 times greater in the central than in the marginal ischemic zone, whereas mean standard deviation at the same time was 1.5 times greater in the marginal than in the central ischemic zone. verapamil reduced mean dek and mean standard deviation in both ischemic zones for most of the occlusion by delaying the rise in [k+]e and the inhomogeneity of that rise by 3-5 minutes. comparisons of mean dek with mean standard deviation revealed a steep linear relation in the marginal zone and a curvilinear relation in the central zone where higher mean dek values were not accompanied by higher values for mean standard deviation. furthermore, we determined that these relations were not altered by verapamil.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
norfloxacin prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence in cirrhosis: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. eighty cirrhotic patients who had recovered from an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were included in a multicenter, double-blind trial aimed at comparing long-term norfloxacin administration (400 mg/day; 40 patients) vs. placebo (40 patients) in the prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence. at entry, both groups were similar with respect to clinical and laboratory data, ascitic fluid protein and polymorphonuclear concentrations, number of previous episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and causative organisms of the index spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. norfloxacin administration produced a selective intestinal decontamination (elimination of aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the fecal flora without significant changes in other microorganisms) throughout the study in six patients in whom the effect of norfloxacin on the fecal flora was periodically assessed. fourteen patients from the placebo group (35%) and five from the norfloxacin group (12%) developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence during follow-up (chi 2 = 5.97; p = 0.014) (mean follow-up period = 6.4 +/- 0.6 mo; range = 1 to 19 mo). ten of the 14 spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the placebo group and only one of the five spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the norfloxacin group were caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli (chi 2 = 8.87; p = 0.0029). the overall probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence at 1 yr of follow-up was 20% in the norfloxacin group and 68% in the placebo group (p = 0.0063) and the probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli at 1 yr of follow-up was 3% and 60%, respectively (p = 0.0013).
schindler disease: the molecular lesion in the alpha-n-acetylgalactosaminidase gene that causes an infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. schindler disease is a recently recognized infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy resulting from the deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase, alpha-n-acetylgalctosaminidase (alpha-galnac). the recent isolation and expression of the full-length cdna encoding alpha-galnac facilitated the identification of the molecular lesions in the affected brothers from family d, the first cases described with this autosomal recessive disease. southern and northern hybridization analyses of dna and rna from the affected homozygotes revealed a grossly normal alpha-galnac gene structure and normal transcript sizes and amounts. therefore, the alpha-galnac transcript from an affected homozygote was reverse-transcribed, amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (pcr), and sequenced. a single g to a transition at nucleotide 973 was detected in multiple subclones containing the pcr products. this point mutation resulted in a glutamic acid to lysine substitution in residue 325 (e325k) of the alpha-galnac polypeptide. the base substitution was confirmed by dot blot hybridization analyses of pcr-amplified genomic dna from family members with allele-specific oligonucleotides. furthermore, transient expression of an alpha-galnac construct containing the e325k mutation resulted in the expression of an immunoreactive polypeptide which had no detectable alpha-galnac activity.
xipamide disposition in liver cirrhosis. the pharmacokinetics of the sulfonamide-type diuretic xipamide was studied in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites and compared with healthy control subjects. after oral administration of 40 mg xipamide, the diuretic was rapidly distributed in the blood and the ascites. the ratio of the area under the concentration-time curve (auc) of plasma and ascitic fluid was 7:2, as was the protein content in the respective compartments. the auc in plasma of cirrhotic patients was significantly greater than in control subjects (p less than 0.001). the most striking finding was the increase of the amount (ae) of parent drug and main metabolite excreted into the urine (p less than 0.001). the renal clearance of xipamide was only moderately reduced in patients with liver cirrhosis. both auc and ae were positively correlated to the plasma concentration of direct bilirubin of the patients (p less than 0.05). we concluded that nonrenal drug clearance in patients with liver cirrhosis was reduced as a result of the blockade of hepatobiliary excretion during cholestatic conditions.
muscle relaxation rates in individuals susceptible to malignant hyperthermia. muscle relaxation rate following a tetanic stimulus of adductor pollicis muscle was measured prospectively in 26 patients potentially susceptible to malignant hyperthermia (mh) the day before a muscle biopsy was obtained for mh in vitro screening. eleven subjects were found to be mh susceptible (mhs) and 15 subjects mh-negative (mhn). in all patients, relaxation rate was recorded at three different temperatures of the skin overlying adductor pollicis (30, 34 and 38 degrees c) achieved by a small surface heating unit placed over the thenar eminence. the mhs group exhibited slightly higher relaxation rate at 34 and 38 degrees c compared with the mhn group and this difference was accentuated with increasing temperature, but was not statistically different. the results of the present study suggest that relaxation rates are normal in mhs individuals under physiological conditions and cannot be used diagnostically for mh screening.
chronic functional gastrointestinal symptoms in holocaust survivors. in nazi-occupied europe (1939-1945), jews were submitted to extreme mental and physical hardships (the holocaust). this study was designed to investigate the impact of the severe protracted suffering on the development of chronic functional gastrointestinal symptoms. thus, we studied 623 consecutive patients of eastern european origin who had been admitted for nongastrointestinal complaints. they filled out detailed questionnaires, and were divided into the following two groups: a) holocaust survivors [237 subjects who had been for at least 6 months in either german concentration/extermination camps (95 subjects), ghetto and/or underground movements (65 subjects), labor camps not directly supervised by germans (79 subjects)], and b) a control group (384 subjects from the same demographic background, who had not been exposed to nazi persecutions). the symptoms investigated were the following: abdominal pain, irregular bowel habits, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal distension, heartburn, flatulence, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, mucus in stool, tenesmus, and aerophagia. patients were defined as having functional symptoms after these had been present for at least 5 yr and relevant organic disease had been excluded. the prevalence, duration of suffering, and frequency of appearance of most symptoms were significantly higher in the group of holocaust survivors. this study supports the clinical observations that severe and protracted suffering contributes to the development of chronic functional gastrointestinal symptomatology.
defects in the precore region of the hbv genome in patients with chronic hepatitis b after sustained seroconversion from hbeag to anti-hbe induced spontaneously or with interferon therapy. hepatitis b virus dna clones were propagated from sera of six patients with chronic hepatitis b who seroconverted from hbeag to antibody to hbeag either spontaneously or after administration of alpha-interferon. defects in the precore region blocking synthesis and secretion of hbeag were detected in all 46 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who remained positive for antibody to hbeag and in whom hepatitis resolved. defective clones had point mutations from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region, converting codon 28 from tryptophan (tgg) to a stop codon (tag). in contrast, this defect was not found in any of 39 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who seroconverted to antibody to hbeag but then redeveloped hbeag with reactivation of hepatitis. using these results, the g-to-a point mutation at nucleotide 83 in the precore region would predict sustained positivity for antibody to hbeag and remission of hepatitis in patients who have seroconverted either spontaneously or with interferon therapy.
physiologic parameters and perceived exertion with local muscle fatigue in postpolio subjects. fifty postpolio patients, 34 with and 16 without complaints of progressive loss of muscle strength, and 41 control subjects were studied to compare physiologic measures of the fatiguing process and to determine whether there is a significant interaction between the rating of perceived exertion (rpe) and physiologic measures. statistical analyses were by anova and repeated-measures anova. the rpe was obtained every 20 seconds during an isometric contraction of the quadriceps at 40% of maximal torque; median frequency (fm) of the power spectrum of the surface electromyographic signal and neuromuscular efficiency (nme) were constantly monitored. the rpe increased similarly (p greater than .05), whereas fm and nme decreased similarly (p greater than .05) during endurance exercise at 40% of maximal torque in all three groups. a significant (p less than .05) interaction was found between rpe and both fm and nme. we conclude that physiologic measures of the fatiguing process (fm and nme) occur in a similar manner in postpolio and control subjects and that there is a significant interaction between subjective rpe and physiologic measures of the fatiguing process.
implantation of an endoluminal prosthesis at the distal anastomosis of a bypass graft for abrupt closure following balloon angioplasty. a coronary wallstent was implanted in a 10-year-old saphenous vein bypass graft following a ptca that was complicated by abrupt closure. anterograde flow was restored and no myocardial necrosis resulted. one week later, bypass surgery was performed due to a bleeding complication associated with the anticoagulation regimen.
surgical epicardial ablation of left ventricular pathway using sling exposure we report our experience with 43 consecutive patients with left free wall pathways operated on since december 1988 using a modified direct epicardial approach through a medial sternotomy, without the adjunct of normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass. the left atrioventricular sulcus is exposed by dislocating the heart cephalad and to the right using a sling made of a large sponge passed around the ventricle through the transverse sinus. while the arterial pressure is monitored, the heart is positioned to obtain adequate exposure without compromising the ventricular function. the left atrioventricular junction is exposed using a direct approach. the epicardium is incised along the ventricular edge and a plane of dissection is identified and opened using blunt dissection over the ventricular wall. the entire left atrioventricular junction can be exposed. after dissection, electrophysiological testing is repeated to assess accessory pathway conduction. epicardial cryoablation was used when accessory pathway conduction was not present (42 patients). transmural cryoablation was used under normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass when accessory pathway conduction persisted after dissection (subendocardial pathway). in all, cardiopulmonary bypass was not used in 41 patients. there was one early relapse that required transmural cryoablation. there were no complications.
predictive value of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium as a clinical marker for familial adenomatous polyposis. one hundred forty-eight members of 53 kindreds with familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) were examined for congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (chrpe) and extracolonic manifestations (ecm) to assess the value of chrpe as a predictive marker for fap. based on eye examination results, the families were divided into 2 groups. in a first group of 34 families, all 61 members diagnosed as having polyps and 13 of the 33 patients at risk had 4 or more lesions distributed in both eyes. by contrast, in a second group of 18 families, all 32 polyposis patients and all 18 members at risk had less than 4 lesions. extra-colonic manifestations were present in 26 of 34 families in the first group and in 11 of 18 families in the second group. data on one family with ambiguous ancestry were reviewed separately. the existence of 4 or more chrpe lesions distributed in both eyes seems to be a congenital marker for fap, present in 65.4 percent of families. when present in a family: 1) it is found in all diagnosed patients in that family, 2) can therefore be considered predictive for the development of polyps in other family members who carry the trait, and 3) if confirmed by longer follow-up, may possibly preclude members without the trait from further evaluation and surveillance.
surgical staples in cesarean section: a randomized controlled trial. this randomized controlled trial compares the use of the auto suture poly cs 57 disposable surgical stapler (n = 98) with standard hysterectomy (n = 102) in low transverse cesarean sections. subjective assessment of blood loss by the surgeon resulted in lower mean (+/- sem) total blood loss estimates in the stapled group (492 +/- 24 ml) than in the nonstapled group (579 +/- 38 ml) (p = 0.05). however, surgeon's estimation of blood loss as a result of the hysterotomy and blood loss estimated by the hemoglobin deficit measured on the second postoperative day did not significantly differ between the two groups. the use of the stapling device tended to lengthen the total operating time, which averaged 42.5 minutes in the group with the staples and 39.2 minutes in the group with the standard hysterotomy (p = 0.05). the risk of febrile morbidity, the frequency of endometritis, and the length of hospitalization were similar in the two groups. our results do not support the routine use of the auto suture poly cs 57 disposable surgical stapler in low transverse cesarean sections.
ischemic intestinal complications in patients with burns. enteral bacterial translocation has been implicated as a major cause of morbidity in instances of trauma, but little clinical evidence of the loss of intestinal mucosal integrity has been documented. a retrospective review of the medical and autopsy records of all patients admitted between 1982 and 1988 was performed to describe the incidence of intestinal pathologic findings. of all deaths, a total of 53 per cent of adults (greater than 18 years old) and 61 per cent of children (zero to 17 years old) were noted to have ischemic intestinal pathologic findings on autopsy, ranging from superficial necrosis to full thickness mucosal necrosis extending into the omentum. more than 80 per cent of these patients were septic at the time of death, with endogenous intestinal flora species most frequently identified as the causative agent. less than 1 per cent (n = 16) of the patients admitted were clinically identified with intestinal pathologic examination, surgically explored and underwent resection of the intestine. despite intervention, this group suffered a 69 per cent mortality rate. although the documentation of bacterial translocation in a human model may be obscured by other potential sources of contamination, for example, burn wound, in combination with the immunosuppression inherent to the thermally injured, may lead to bacterial contamination of the systemic circulation and, therefore, may be a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality after thermal injury.
occipital condyle fracture presenting as retropharyngeal hematoma. reported is the case of a 30-year-old male motorcycle accident victim who was found on plain cervical-spine radiography to have prevertebral soft-tissue swelling. although subsequent computed tomography demonstrated no cervical-spine fracture, it did reveal a fracture of one occipital condyle. the mechanism, diagnosis, and treatment of occipital condyle fractures are reviewed, as is the ligamentous and fascial anatomy of the cervicocranium. dissection of fracture hematoma inferiorly along vertically oriented tissue planes is hypothesized as the pathogenesis of our patient's retropharyngeal hematoma. in addition to being a sign of potential cervical-spine injury, post-traumatic prevertebral soft-tissue swelling may also indicate occipital condyle fracture. to avoid overlooking such fractures, computed tomography undertaken to investigate upper cervical-spine prevertebral soft-tissue swelling should always include slices up to the level of the basal skull so as to visualize the condyles.
long-time survival of a patient with glioblastoma and turcot's syndrome. case report. a rare case of turcot's syndrome is reported in a long-time survivor of glioblastoma multiforme. the patient was treated for his tumor in 1976 with macroscopically complete surgical resection and radiotherapy consisting of 60 gy to the tumor bed and 40 gy to the whole brain. five years later, in 1981, he developed adenocarcinoma of the colon dukes stage b which was successfully treated at another hospital by surgery alone. in 1990, he presented with multiple colon polyps and adenocarcinoma dukes stage a. for more than 15 years, the patient has been afflicted with cystic and conglobate acne. possible mechanisms and treatment with 13-cis retinoic acid are discussed.
stereotactic radiosurgery of meningiomas. stereotactic radiosurgery has an expanding role in the management of selected intracranial tumors. in an initial 30-month experience using the 201-source cobalt-60 gamma knife at the university of pittsburgh, 50 patients with meningiomas were treated. the most frequent site of origin was the skull base. previously, 36 patients (72%) had undergone at least one craniotomy and four patients (8%) had received fractionated external beam radiation therapy. stereotactic radiosurgery was the primary treatment modality in 16 patients (32%) with symptomatic tumors demonstrated by neuroimaging. computer imaging-generated isodose plans (with one to five irradiation isocenters) for single-treatment irradiation gave optimal (greater than or equal to 50% isodose line) coverage in 44 patients (88%). the proximity of cranial nerves or vascular, pituitary, and brain-stem structures to the often convoluted tumor mass was crucial to dose selection. serial imaging studies were evaluated in all 50 patients. twenty-four patients were examined between 12 and 36 months after treatment; 13 (54%) showed a reduction in tumor volume while nine (38%) showed no change. of 26 patients evaluated between 6 and 12 months after treatment, four showed a decrease in tumor size while 22 showed no change. two patients (both with large tumors that received suboptimal irradiation) had delayed tumor growth outside the radiosurgical treatment volume. the actuarial 2-year tumor growth control rate was 96%. between 3 and 12 months after radiosurgery, three patients developed delayed neurological deficits that gradually improved, compatible with delayed radiation injury. although extended follow-up monitoring over many years will be necessary to fully evaluate treatment, to date stereotactic radiosurgery has proved to be a relatively safe and effective therapy for selected patients with symptomatic meningiomas, including those who failed surgical resection. radiosurgery was an effective primary treatment alternative for those patients whose advanced age, medical condition, or high-risk tumor location mitigated against surgical resection.
serum and tissue magnesium concentrations in patients with heart failure and serious ventricular arrhythmias. objective: to compare magnesium concentrations in serum and tissue from patients with heart failure. two groups of patients were compared, those with or without serious ventricular arrhythmias. design: consecutive enrollment. blinded laboratory analyses. setting: referral inpatient service of the cardiology division of a university hospital. patients: twenty-three patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and mild to moderately severe congestive heart failure (new york heart association functional class ii to iv) were divided into two groups: 9 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardias and 14 patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias (control). interventions: medications for heart failure were withdrawn 12 hours or more before study. antiarrhythmic therapy was continued throughout the study. measurements and main results: the patients had skeletal muscle biopsies, myocardial biopsies, and blood sampling for the analysis of magnesium concentrations. no statistically significant differences in the mean magnesium concentrations in serum, circulating mononuclear cells, skeletal muscle, and myocardium were found when the 9 patients with ventricular arrhythmias were compared with the 14 control patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias. conclusions: in a general, ambulatory sample of patients with heart failure, magnesium depletion in serum and tissue does not appear to occur more commonly in patients with serious ventricular arrhythmias than in patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias.
effect of ulcerative colitis and smoking on rectal blood flow. rectal blood flow was measured by laser doppler flowmetry over 60 minutes in eight patients with colitis in remission and eight healthy male non-smokers. ten smokers were also examined on two occasions, one of which included smoking a cigarette. plasma nicotine concentrations were measured in smokers. all subjects showed a pronounced fall in rectal blood flow in the first 30 minutes and patients with colitis had significantly higher values compared with smokers (p less than 0.002; p less than 0.04) and non-smokers (p less than 0.007; p less than 0.002) during the first and second 30 minutes respectively. values in smokers and non-smokers were similar, but smoking a cigarette was associated with a significant fall in blood flow (p less than 0.04) and this change was inversely related to the rise in plasma nicotine concentration (r = -0.63; p less than 0.05). the findings may be relevant to the association between colitis and the smoking history.
the classification and diagnosis of headache disorders. headache disorders recently have been reclassified, and new operational diagnostic criteria assist in making the correct diagnosis. these diagnostic criteria have been accepted worldwide.
cranial nerve palsy in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma. forty-five children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or non-hodgkin's lymphoma had cranial nerve palsy (cnp) as a complication of their disease. twenty-two of these children had cnp initially and 23, at relapse, with or without previous hematologic relapse. only one of the 23 patients with cnp at relapse was a long-term survivor. in contrast, 11 of the 22 children who had cnp initially survived in remission for 3+ months to 13+ years. two factors are associated with an improved outcome for patients with cnp at diagnosis: treatment after 1979 (p less than 0.004) and male gender (p less than 0.01). patients who received radiation therapy fared better than those for whom radiation was not given (disease-free survival at 2 years 53% versus 29%). the authors conclude that cnp signifies an aggressive or advanced disease requiring intensive systemic chemotherapy and that the role of irradiation should be examined for this group of patients.
noninvasive assessment of cerebral collateral blood supply through the ophthalmic artery. we assessed the potential of 2-mhz pulsed-wave transorbital doppler ultrasonography to delineate the role of the ophthalmic artery as a source of collateral cerebral blood supply by comparing oculopneumoplethysmography, transorbital doppler ultrasonography, periorbital continuous-wave doppler ultrasonography, and transcranial doppler ultrasonography in 25 patients with unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion and five controls with 10 normal internal carotid arteries. systolic ophthalmic artery blood velocity was reduced ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion (38.2 +/- 10.2 cm/sec) compared with the contralateral and control velocities (46.0 +/- 10.3 and 47.5 +/- 6.8 cm/sec, respectively; p less than 0.05). ophthalmic systolic pressure measured by oculopneumoplethysmography was 94.7 +/- 13.2 mm hg ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion compared with 108.4 +/- 15.3 mm hg on the contralateral side (p less than 0.01). transorbital and periorbital doppler ultrasonography detected reversed ophthalmic artery blood flow ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion in 44.0% and 40.0% of the patients, respectively. systolic middle cerebral artery blood velocity was 55.2 +/- 22.3 cm/sec ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion compared with 79.4 +/- 23.5 cm/sec on the contralateral side (p less than 0.05) and 101.2 +/- 18.9 cm/sec in the controls (p less than 0.05). reversed ophthalmic artery blood flow was associated with a low middle cerebral artery blood velocity and lack of major intracerebral collaterals. transorbital doppler ultrasonography permits noninvasive evaluation of the ophthalmic artery.
bile acids and the increased risk of colorectal tumours after truncal vagotomy. an association between colorectal cancer and previous peptic ulcer surgery is reported. in a prospective screening study, 100 asymptomatic patients (80 men and 20 women) who had undergone truncal vagotomy at least 10 years previously were investigated by barium enema, colonoscopy and gallbladder ultrasonography. control data were obtained from forensic autopsy subjects. the incidence of neoplasms greater than or equal to 1.0 cm in the vagotomized group was 14 per cent (11 adenomas, 3 carcinomas) and 3 per cent in controls (p = 0.01). duodenal bile obtained at endoscopy from 21 vagotomized patients with normal gallbladders and from 21 control patients undergoing endoscopy was analysed by high performance liquid chromatography. the mean percentage of cholic (ca), chenodeoxycholic (cdca), deoxycholic (dca) and lithocholic (lca) acids in the bile of vagotomized patients was 32.3, 45.6, 20.7 and 1.4 per cent respectively compared with 45.3, 36.2, 17.9 and 0.7 per cent respectively in controls. the increased proportions of cdca and lca and decreased proportions of ca in the duodenal bile of vagotomized patients were significant (p less than 0.001; p = 0.02; p = 0.007). abnormalities in bile acid metabolism may help to explain the increased risk of colorectal neoplasia 10 years after truncal vagotomy.
risk stratification in survivors of acute myocardial infarction: routine cardiac catheterization and angiography is a reasonable approach in most patients [editorial] noninvasive risk assessment in survivors of ami can effectively subdivide patients into groups with differing risk profiles after hospital discharge, but some patients at risk for late death or recurrent ami may be incorrectly identified; data from cardiac catheterization and angiography provide complementary and generally more powerful prognostic information. many patients may derive particular benefit from early cardiac catheterization and angiography, including: (1) patients with ami complicated by recurrent myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure, and/or complex ventricular arrhythmias; (2) patients with abnormal or inconclusive results of noninvasive testing or those patients unable to perform an exercise test; (3) patients with abnormal left ventricular global systolic function and those with increased left ventricular end-systolic volume; (4) "young" patients (younger than 50 years of age?); (5) older patients (older than 65 to 70 years of age?); (6) patients with non-q wave ami; and (7) patients who are receiving thrombolytic therapy. performance of early cardiac catheterization and angiography in virtually all survivors of ami, with selective use of appropriate noninvasive tests, may provide a more efficacious means of risk assessment after ami; if all tests are performed judiciously, the cost of such an approach need not be excessive. a combination of invasive and selected noninvasive tests probably provides optimal information. the risks to the routine performance of diagnostic cardiac catheterization and angiography in all survivors of ami are: (1) adequate care and attention may not be paid to proper performance of the procedure(s) and to detailed and proper analyses of the data; (2) the need for additional noninvasive testing in selected patients may be ignored; and most importantly, (3) premature or unnecessary revascularization procedures may be performed subsequently. for optimal patient care, the clinician must obtain all necessary data, avoid unnecessary and repetitive tests, know the accuracy of individual tests at his or her own facility, interpret all data in proper context, and then counsel patients objectively about available management strategies. with this approach, all patients who might appropriately benefit from coronary artery revascularization will be correctly identified, and patients who are truly at very low risk (minimal residual coronary artery disease and preserved left ventricular function particularly if associated with a patent infarct-related artery) may be similarly identified and managed appropriately with elimination of unnecessary additional testing and pharmacologic therapy. finally, whatever approach to risk stratification one chooses for an individual patient, the importance of and the need to correct and/or ameliorate risk factors for coronary artery disease must be recognized and undertaken.
technetium-99m-hmpao brain spect in medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy: a postoperative evaluation. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the predictive value of interictal single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) using technetium-99m-labeled hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (hmpao) for the outcome after temporal lobectomy in patients with complex partial seizures. out of 40 patients, 21 underwent right-sided and 19 left-sided temporal lobectomy. eeg and ct/mri were primarily used to select the side of surgery. spect results correlated with temporal lobectomy in 68% of the patients. after surgical intervention, memory function was tested for both sides. following left-sided temporal lobectomy, verbal memory was impaired in 8% of the patients, if spect agreed with the side selected for surgery, but in 83%, if it diverged from it. in the present study, there was no relationship between spect concordance with the side of temporal lobectomy and outcome as to seizure frequency and non-verbal memory. we conclude that preoperative interictal hmpao/spect can contribute to the prediction of postoperative verbal memory function and that this method should be considered for use prior to temporal lobectomy.
transoesophageal echocardiography improves the diagnostic value of cardiac ultrasound in patients with carcinoid heart disease. transthoracic and transoesophageal cardiac echocardiography and doppler investigations were performed in 31 consecutive patients with malignant midgut carcinoid tumours. the transoesophageal images allowed measurement of the thickness of the atrioventricular valve leaflets and the superficial wall layers on the cavity side of both atria. the mean thickness of the anterior tricuspid leaflet was significantly greater than that of the mitral valve--a difference not seen in a control group of age-matched patients without carcinoid tumours and with normal cardiac ultrasound findings. in addition, the edges of the tricuspid leaflets were thickened giving them a clubbed appearance. tricuspid incompetence was detected transoesophageally in 71% of the patients with carcinoid compared with 57% by transthoracic investigation. the inner layer of the right atrial wall in the carcinoid patients was significantly thicker than that of the left atrium and that of both atria in the controls. furthermore, patients with other signs of severe carcinoid heart disease had significantly thicker mean right atrial luminal wall layer than those with less or no signs of right heart disease. transoesophageal cardiac ultrasound investigation improved the diagnostic accuracy and seemed to show the structural changes typical of carcinoid heart disease established by histopathological investigations.
activation and inducer subset phenotype of the lymphocytic infiltrate around epidermally derived tumors. an in situ analysis of the mononuclear cell infiltrate found in association with a range of benign, premalignant, and malignant epidermal tumors is described. the predominant cell phenotype was that of the recently described immunoregulatory helper/inducer t lymphocyte. a large number of lymphocytes expressed antigens associated with cellular activation, suggesting an ongoing immunologic response by the host against the tumor, although evidence of in situ proliferation of these cells was lacking. these findings suggest that the infiltrate found in association with cutaneous tumors does not represent passive accumulation of lymphocytes from the circulation but rather an active antitumor response.
prognostic value of histopathology in ewing's sarcoma. long-term follow-up of distal extremity primary tumors. the pathologic material from 56 patients diagnosed initially as ewing's sarcoma of the distal extremity and treated on national cancer institute protocols between 1968 and 1984 was reviewed and correlated with clinical outcome. histologically, the tumors were categorized, based on recent pathologic criteria, into three diagnostic groups: (1) typical ewing's sarcoma, (2) atypical ewing's sarcoma, and (3) other (predominantly peripheral neuroepithelioma [pn]). thirty-two patients (57%) had typical ewing's, 13 (23%) were atypical, and 11 (20%) were in the "other" diagnostic category (seven [13%] pn, two primitive rhabdomyosarcoma, one primitive sarcoma of bone, and one synovial cell sarcoma). no cases of metastatic neuroblastoma, osteosarcoma, or lymphoma were found. forty-five patients had localized disease at diagnosis; 11 had metastases. patients with typical ewing's sarcoma were less likely to have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis. only two of 32 patients with typical ewing's sarcoma had metastases compared with nine of 24 patients in the two other groups. the pattern of relapse was also different in these other groups compared with typical ewing's patients; five patients developed lymph node metastases and two patients developed brain metastases. although the presence of metastatic disease at diagnosis was a strong negative prognostic factor, our histologic grouping was independently prognostic of clinical outcome in patients with localized disease. patients with typical osseous ewing's sarcoma had an improved overall survival (p2 = 0.03) and patients with other tumors (neither typical nor atypical ewing's sarcoma) had a poorer disease-free survival (p2 = 0.02). since no generally accepted histopathologic prognostic criteria exist for ewing's sarcoma, the potential value of our proposed classification should be evaluated in a larger retrospective and a prospective study.
clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in tibial disease and the results of surgery. bypass vein grafts to the infrapopliteal arteries now achieve a 5-year cumulative patency equivalent to that of vein grafts to the popliteal arteries. the technique of in situ vein grafting to the tibial arteries is described and the results are presented. the 5-year cumulative patency for such bypasses and the 5-year limb salvage in the same patients have both been approximately 80%. these results coupled with those reported from other centers that have sizable experience in tibial artery reconstruction suggest that there has been real progress over the past decade in the salvage of lower extremities in patients with far advanced peripheral vascular disease through the use of autogenous venous bypass grafts.
improvement of systolic and diastolic left ventricular wall motion by serial echocardiograms in selected patients treated for unstable angina. the purpose of the study was to evaluate the effect of antiischemic treatment on left ventricular function in selected patients with unstable angina pectoris that was due to severe proximal left anterior descending coronary artery narrowing and to identify subgroups liable to an adverse outcome (mean term 2.7 years). effect of antiischemic treatment on systolic and diastolic left ventricular wall motion was studied in 35 patients who had unstable angina pectoris and an electrocardiogram that indicated severe proximal left anterior descending coronary artery narrowing. treatment consisted of either a revascularization procedure (17 patients) or antianginal drug therapy (18 patients). all patients underwent a two-dimensional echocardiographic study within 48 hours (mean 20 hours) of entry into the study. this study semiquantitatively analyzed systolic performance of the ischemia-related segments by calculation of a total wall motion score. in 16 patients this investigation was combined with a continuous detailed recording of only the apical interventricular septal wall motion. this detailed study included measurements for regional function by providing a typification of the pattern of systolic and early diastolic excursion of the endocardial border of the apical interventricular septum. a repeat ultrasonic study was performed at least 1 month (median 2 months, 7 days) after admission. results of the systolic wall motion analyses of all 35 patients showed, in both treatment groups, a significant improvement in systolic wall motion of the anterior and apical segments (mean total wall motion score at early study vs late study: revascularization, 6.9 vs 2.2 and medical therapy, 4.6 vs 1.0).
recognition by elam-1 of the sialyl-lex determinant on myeloid and tumor cells. endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (elam-1) is an endothelial cell adhesion molecule that allows myeloid cells to attach to the walls of blood vessels adjacent to sites of inflammation. elam-1 recognizes the sialyl-lewis x (sialyl-lex) determinant, neuac alpha 2-3gal beta 1-4(fuc alpha 1-3)glcnac-, a granulocyte carbohydrate also found on the surface of some tumor cell lines. binding of myeloid cells to soluble elam-1 is inhibited by a monoclonal antibody recognizing sialyl-lex or by proteins bearing sialyl-lex, some of which may participate in humoral regulation of myeloid cell adhesion. stimulated granulocytes also release an inhibitor of elam-1 binding that can be selectively adsorbed by monoclonal antibody to sialyl-lex.
decollateralization with silicone rubber sheeting for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: a preliminary report. a new treatment method, interception of collaterals with a silicone rubber sheet, was applied to three patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in whom arterial chemoembolization was assessed as ineffective because of the developed collateral feeding arteries. this procedure was followed by arterial chemoembolization or intraportal infusion chemotherapy or both. follow-up celiac angiography confirmed that the long-term decollateralization was achieved by shielding the liver with silicone rubber sheeting. this technique resulted in partial responses without serious complications in all the patients including two who had no responses to chemoembolization before the procedure. the response durations were 5, 21, and 27, months, respectively. one patient died of gastrointestinal bleeding 7 months after the decollateralization. the other two patients are still alive, and the survivals after the procedure are 28 and 30 months, respectively. this therapy is considered promising and may be worth choosing as an adjuvant treatment for advanced hepatic malignancies uncontrolled by arterial chemotherapy or chemoembolization.
identification of viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. comparison of thallium scintigraphy with reinjection and pet imaging with 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction, the distinction between ventricular dysfunction arising from myocardial fibrosis and ischemic, but viable, myocardium has important clinical implications. by positron emission tomography (pet), enhanced fluorine-18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) uptake in myocardial segments with impaired function and reduced blood flow is evidence of myocardial viability. reinjection of thallium-201 at rest immediately after stress-redistribution imaging may also provide evidence of myocardial viability by demonstrating thallium uptake in regions with apparently "irreversible" defects. to compare these two methods, we studied 16 patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction, 27 +/- 9%), all of whom had irreversible defects on standard exercise-redistribution thallium single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) imaging. thallium was reinjected immediately after the redistribution study, and spect images were reacquired. the patients also underwent pet imaging with fdg and oxygen-15-labeled water. a total of 432 myocardial segments were analyzed from comparable transaxial tomograms, of which 166 (38%) had irreversible thallium defects on redistribution images before reinjection. fdg uptake was demonstrated in 121 (73%) of these irreversible defects. irreversible defects were then subgrouped according to the degree of thallium activity, relative to peak activity in normal regions. irreversible defects with only mild (60-85% of peak activity) or moderate (50-59% of peak) reduction in thallium activity were considered viable on the basis of fdg uptake in 91% and 84% of these segments, respectively. in contrast, in irreversible defects with severe reduction in thallium activity (less than 50% of peak), fdg uptake was present in 51% of segments. in such severe defects, an identical number of segments (51%) demonstrated enhanced uptake of thallium after reinjection. in these severe "irreversible" defects, data on myocardial viability were concordant by the two techniques in 88% of segments, with 45% identified as viable and 43% identified as scar on both pet and thallium reinjection studies. these observations suggest that thallium imaging can be used to identify viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. most irreversible defects with only mild or moderate reduction in thallium activity represent viable myocardium as confirmed by fdg uptake.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia. bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia, occurring in 93% of patients before the age of 1 year, but thought to be rare after 2 years of age. among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation, four presented with late cholangitis (7 to 13.5 years old), consisting of fever, jaundice, and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis. liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis, growth of microorganism, or both. cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics. cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis. all the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis. these results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis.
palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis: clinical results. the palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice. because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications, an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed. thirty patients were treated by this method. after choledochotomy, the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of oddi, thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis. twenty-nine patients (13 with gallbladder cancer, 11 with cholangiocarcinomas, 5 with metastases) presented with neoplastic compression, and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases. the operative mortality was 3.3% (one pulmonary complication). resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients, and pruritus always resolved. the mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer. indices of satisfaction (bismuth's method) were 71% (gallbladder cancer), 93.5% (hilar cholangiocarcinoma), and 92% (metastatic compressions). this new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated, has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity, and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients.
impaired oxidative metabolism increases adenine nucleotide breakdown in mcardle's disease. two patients with muscle phosphorylase deficiency [mcardle's disease (mca)] were studied during bicycle exercise at 40 (n = 2) and 60 w (n = 1). peak heart rate was 170 and 162 beats/min, corresponding to approximately 90% of estimated maximal heart rate. muscle samples were taken at rest and immediately after exercise from the quadriceps femoris. lactate content remained low in both muscle and blood. acetylcarnitine, which constitutes a readily available form of acetyl units and thus a substrate for the tricarboxylic acid cycle, was very low in mca patients both at rest and during exercise, corresponding to approximately 17 and 11%, respectively, of that in healthy subjects. muscle nadh was unchanged during exercise in mca patients in contrast to healthy subjects, in whom nadh increases markedly at high exercise intensities. despite low lactate levels, arterial plasma nh3 and muscle inosine 5'-monophosphate increased more steeply relative to work load in mca patients than in healthy subjects. the low postexercise levels of lactate, acetylcarnitine, and nadh in mca patients support the idea that exercise performance is limited by the availability of oxidative fuels. increases in muscle inosine 5'-monophosphate and plasma nh3 indicate that lack of glycogen as an oxidative fuel is associated with adenine nucleotide breakdown and increased deamination of amp. it is suggested that the early onset of fatigue in mca patients is caused by an insufficient rate of adp phosphorylation, resulting in transient increases in adp.
discordant nephron function. a pathogenic factor in hypertension and its vascular complications of stroke and heart attack. morphologic evidence from patients with essential hypertension and goldblatt-type hypertension reveals a subpopulation of narrowed afferent arterioles to ischemic nephrons. these ischemic nephrons, responding individually to their perception of underperfusion, secrete renin. in response, the normal nephrons are in adaptive natriuresis and have appropriately shut off their renin production. nevertheless, they are affected adversely by the discordant renin-angiotensin ii arising from the ischemic nephrons' presence, which exerts an unwanted sodium-retaining effect on the proximal tubules of the adapting nephrons. the end result is elevated blood pressure from too much sodium retention for the level of renin activity, that is, an abnormal renin-sodium product. thus, "normal" renin levels in a hypertensive individual are abnormal because healthy kidneys shut off renin production entirely when blood pressure rises. this construction explains why angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition often corrects "normal" renin hypertension. although such hypertension may be partly sodium-mediated as a consequence of inappropriate sodium retention by the normal and ischemic nephrons, the source of the problem lies in the renin production from ischemic nephrons. the correct treatment, then, is an antirenin therapy designed to block renin synthesis or secretion or angiotensin ii formation or action. in view of modern studies suggesting that renin excesses also correlate with an increased risk of heart attack and stroke, the role of antirenin and antiangiotensin agents in treatment assumes additional relevance.
pain control in the ambulatory elderly. pain control in the elderly, no matter what the etiology or setting, can be a major clinical challenge. aging causes unique physiologic changes, eg, a decreased perception of pain and an enhanced sensitivity to opioid analgesics. principles regarding evaluation of patients with pain are reviewed, including the use of an objective instrument for pain assessment from the viewpoint of both physician and patient. good pain control can be achieved with the nonopioids, such as acetaminophen and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the opioid analgesics, and, in some cases, adjuvant agents. discussed also are the concerns for patient addiction and the who cancer pain relief program.
recognition of cemetery remains in the forensic setting. cemetery remains exposed through vandalism or natural phenomena are frequently brought to the attention of law enforcement agents or medical examiners. although it is often difficult to distinguish cemetery remains from those of medicolegal significance, clues to their origin may exist. characteristics consistent with cemetery remains include physical characteristics associated with the embalming process. characteristics indicative of cemetery remains include functional or ornamental artifacts associated with the coffin, devices used in embalming the body, and elevated levels of embalming chemicals in the soft tissue.
angiographic changes suggestive of vasospasm in migraine complicated by stroke. a 30-year-old woman with a history of common migraine developed a permanent left homonymous hemianopia during a typical headache. ct scan demonstrated a right posterior cerebral infarction and angiography showed irregular narrowing of the ipsilateral posterior cerebral artery, suggestive of vasospasm. in the case no risk factors for atherosclerotic stroke were present except for smoking, and no other causes of stroke could be found.
a randomized control trial of two cervical spatulas the sampling efficacy of the ayre and rocket cervical spatulas was compared in a randomized controlled trial involving 533 women who were attending a colposcopy clinic either for investigation of cytological abnormality or for review after treatment of cin. smears were compared with respect to the presence of cytological abnormality and two types of normal cervical epithelial cells (endocervical and immature metaplastic cells) which are considered indicators of adequate cytological sampling. smears taken with the rocket spatula were significantly less likely to contain immature metaplastic cells (95% ci on difference in proportion; 5-30%), but more likely to contain endocervical cells (95% ci 16-36%). no significant difference was found in the proportion of smears containing one or other type of indicator cell or in the yield of abnormal smears. it is concluded that the rocket spatula offered no advantage when used in these circumstances. this study illustrates how spurious conclusions of sampling efficacy can be drawn if only one type of indicator cell is used as an endpoint.
stroke and its modification in parkinson's disease. previous studies have not agreed on the incidence of ischemic stroke in persons with parkinson's disease. there are epidemiologic and neurochemical facets of parkinson's disease that might confer some benefit or protection against ischemic stroke. we used a case-control method to determine the lifetime history of ischemic stroke in 200 patients with parkinson's disease and 200 controls of a similar age range. analysis was also carried out for myocardial infarction as a marker of generalized atherosclerotic disease and for stroke risk factors. the cumulative incidence of ischemic stroke was significantly less in the patients with parkinson's disease than in the controls, as was the cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction. among risk factors, significantly fewer patients with parkinson's disease used tobacco than controls. the decreased incidence of ischemic stroke in the patients with parkinson's disease appears to be related to their less severe generalized atherosclerosis, possibly due to their lower incidence of tobacco use. in view of the known potential for dopamine to exacerbate experimental ischemic tissue damage, the possibility that the dopamine deficiency in the central nervous system of persons with parkinson's disease confers an additional specific protective benefit against ischemic stroke cannot be excluded and requires further study.
treatment of patients with aortic dissection presenting with peripheral vascular complications. the incidence of peripheral vascular complications in 272 patients with aortic dissection during a 25-year span was determined, as was outcome after a uniform, aggressive surgical approach directed at repair of the thoracic aorta. one hundred twenty-eight patients (47%) presented with acute type a dissection, 70 (26%) with chronic type a, 40 (15%) with acute type b, and 34 (12%) with chronic type b dissections. eighty-five patients (31%) sustained one or more peripheral vascular complications: seven (3%) had a stroke, nine (3%) had paraplegia, 66 (24%) sustained loss of a peripheral pulse, 22 (8%) had impaired renal perfusion, and 14 patients (5%) had compromised visceral perfusion. following repair of the thoracic aorta, local peripheral vascular procedures were unnecessary in 92% of patients who presented with absence of a peripheral pulse. the operative mortality rate for all patients was 25% +/- 3% (68 of 272 patients). for the subsets of individuals with paraplegia, loss of renal perfusion, and compromised visceral perfusion, the operative mortality rates (+/- 70% confidence limits) were high: 44% +/- 17% (4 of 9 patients), 50% +/- 11% (11 of 22 patients), and 43% +/- 14% (6 of 14 patients), respectively. the mortality rates were lower for patients presenting with stroke (14% +/- 14% [1 of 7 patients]) or loss of peripheral pulse (27% +/- 6% [18 of 66 patients]). multivariate analysis revealed that impaired renal perfusion was the only peripheral vascular complication that was a significant independent predictor of increased operative mortality risk (p = 0.024); earlier surgical referral (replacement of the appropriate section of the thoracic aorta) or more expeditious diagnosis followed by surgical renal artery revascularization after a thoracic procedure may represent the only way to improve outcome in this high-risk patient subset. early, aggressive thoracic aortic repair (followed by aortic fenestration and/or abdominal exploration with or without direct visceral or renal vascular reconstruction when necessary) can save some patients with compromised visceral perfusion; however, once visceral infarction develops the prognosis is also poor. increased awareness of these devastating complications of aortic dissection and the availability of better diagnostic tools today may improve the survival rate for these patients in the future. the initial surgical procedure should include repair of the thoracic aorta in most patients.
wasting and macrophage production of tumor necrosis factor/cachectin and interleukin 1 in experimental visceral leishmaniasis. wasting and secretion of the catabolic cytokines tumor necrosis factor (tnf)/cachectin and interleukin 1 (il-1) were assessed in weanling syrian hamsters infected with leishmania donovani amastigotes. whereas the mean weight of uninfected animals increased progressively over 9 weeks, the mean weight of infected animals plateaued at 4-6 weeks and then decreased progressively until death. splenic mononuclear cells from control hamsters produced 11.3 +/- 8.3 (sd) ng tnf/10(6) mononuclear cells/24 hr. tnf secretion in infected animals was greater than the mean +/- 2 sd of controls in 1 of 3 hamsters at 2 weeks post-infection and in 8 of 9 hamsters at weeks 4-8. the mean tnf secreted by infected animals studied at weeks 4-8 was 371 (range 28-800) ng tnf/10(6) mononuclear cells/24 hr (p = 0.005). control hamsters produced 7.7 +/- 2.7 pg il-1/10(6) mononuclear cells/24 hr. at 2 weeks, mononuclear cells from 2 of 3 infected animals secreted amounts of il-1 greater than the mean +/- 2 sd of controls. all of 8 infected hamsters secreted increased amounts of il-1 at 4-8 weeks. the mean was 164 (range 17-370) pg il-1/10(6) mononuclear cells/24 hr (p = 0.002). in comparison to infected animals, mononuclear cells from control hamsters incubated with lipopolysaccharide, 10 micrograms/ml, produced 172.5 ng tnf and 44.6 pg of il-1/10(6) mononuclear cells/24 hr. the effect of visceral leishmaniasis on food intake was assessed in a separate group of animals housed individually in metabolic cages. significant reductions in weight and food intake were first observed at 2 and 3 weeks of infection, respectively. by 5 weeks, the food intake of infected animals was 46% that of controls. syrian hamsters infected with l. donovani provide an excellent model with which to study the mechanism of wasting.
the effect on skin blood flow of short-term venous hypertension in normal subjects. plugging of skin capillaries by activated white blood cells is one of the proposed mechanisms by which skin damage may be initiated in chronic venous insufficiency. the aim of this study was to determine whether a microcirculatory deficit was induced in the skin by raising the venous pressure proximally for thirty minutes. seventeen subjects with no evidence of venous or arterial disease had laser doppler velocimetry performed in the goiter region of the leg; 8 different subjects had the measurement done on the dorsum of the hand. peak hyperemic response following three minutes of ischemia was measured before and after a thirty-minute period of sustained venous hypertension applied by a proximal tourniquet inflated to 80 mm hg. a decrease in the peak flow: baseline flow ratio (median ratio 2.25 before, 1.70 after, p less than 0.02) and an increase in the time taken to reach maximal hyperemia (median time ten seconds before, twenty seconds after, p less than 0.01) were observed after the period of venous hypertension in the lower limb. the second parameter, but not the first, was significantly affected in the upper limb. the authors conclude that a microvascular deficit in the skin is demonstrable after a short period of venous hypertension. this is consistent with the white-cell-trapping theory, but other possible explanations are discussed.
attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias. effect of midazolam and vecuronium. we studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone, n2o, isoflurane anaesthesia. four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline (group 1), tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg (group 2), vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg (group 3), or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg (group 4), followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg. group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant (no suxamethonium). fasciculations were graded, and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days. in groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95, 15, 25, 95 and 0%; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70, 45, 65, 75 and 60%, and on the third day after operation 20, 5, 20, 20, and 5%, respectively. we conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium, but not midazolam, decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium (p less than 0.05) and that in this patient population, postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium.
secondary deposition of beta amyloid within extracellular neurofibrillary tangles in alzheimer-type dementia. the hippocampal areas of 34 autopsy specimen brains from aged demented and nondemented subjects were examined using double staining of bodian and beta protein. in 18 cases (75.5 +/- 7.4 years old), none of the extracellular neurofibrillary tangles (e-nfts) were immunoreactive with beta protein. in 16 cases (82.9 +/- 5.4 years old), the minority of e-nfts were immunoreactive with beta-protein antiserum. these beta-immunoreactive e-nfts frequently appeared in the areas having senile plaques, while they were not observed in the area lacking beta-immunoreactive senile plaques. the ultrastructure of beta-immunoreactive e-nfts revealed that they consisted of extracellular amyloid fibrils, extracellularly located bundles of paired helical filaments, astroglial processes and degenerating neurites. these findings suggest that the beta immunoreactivity of e-nfts comes from secondary deposition of amyloid fibrils.
survival rates from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: recommendations for uniform definitions and data to report. survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest vary widely among locations. we surveyed the definitions used in published studies of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. data from 74 studies involving 36 communities showed survival rates ranging from 2% to 44%. there were five different case definitions and 11 different definitions of survivors. the absence of uniform definitions prevents meaningful intersystem comparisons, prohibits explorations of hypotheses about effective interventions, and interferes with the efforts of quality assurance. the most satisfactory numerator for a survival rate appears to be survival to hospital discharge; the most appropriate denominator appears to be witnessed adult cardiac arrest of presumed heart disease etiology, with ventricular fibrillation as the initial identified rhythm. proposed definitions for the data emergency medical services systems should report as they examine their cardiac arrest survival rates are presented.
isolation and characterization of cdna encoding a human nuclear antigen predominantly recognized by autoantibodies from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. autoantibodies to a novel nuclear ag, sp100, have recently been described that recognize a nuclear protein with an apparent molecular mass of 95 to 100 kda and a dot-like distribution within cell nuclei. by immunoscreening of a lambda gt11 cdna expression library derived from hela cells with an anti-sp100 autoimmune serum a 0.7-kb cdna (sp26) coding for a fragment of sp100 was isolated. expression of this cdna and use of the recombinant protein in elisa revealed that the fragment carries major sp100 autoepitopes and that anti-sp100 autoantibodies predominantly occur in patients suffering from primary biliary cirrhosis (50/184). the sp26 cdna was used as hybridization probe for isolation of longer cdna from human liver- and placenta-derived lambda gt10 cdna libraries. overlapping fragments were assembled to generate a full length cdna coding for a protein with a molecular mass of 53 kda and an isoelectric point of 4.7. the sp100 autoantigen expressed in vitro from this cdna and authenticated by a capture immunoblot assay, comigrated in sds-page with the authentic hela autoantigen of 95 to 100 kda and thus showed an aberrant electrophoretic mobility. computer based protein sequence analysis of the sp100 autoantigen revealed regions of striking sequence similarities to the alpha 1 and alpha 2 domains of various human and non-human mhc class i ag and to several transacting transcriptional regulatory proteins.
arterial responses during migraine headache. the superficial temporal artery has been thought to be the main focus of pain during migraine attacks, but its diameter has never been measured directly. the use of a new, high-resolution ultrasound machine to measure arterial size in 25 migraine patients with unilateral head pain showed that the lumen was wider on the painful than on the non-painful side during a migraine attack. the diameters of both radial arteries and the temporal artery on the non-painful side were smaller during than between attacks. the generalised vasoconstriction was not shared by the temporal artery on the affected side, which suggests a local vasodilatory response. the findings suggest that cephalic arteries may play a role in migraine pathogenesis.
a placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. california collaborative treatment group. background and methods. in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids), the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high. we conducted a controlled, double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole. at entry into the study, all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis. the patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy. the dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase. results. of 84 patients initially enrolled, 16 (19 percent) were found to have silent, persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry. of the remaining 61 patients, 10 of 27 assigned to placebo (37 percent) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole (3 percent) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site (difference in risk, 34 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 15 to 53). of the 11 recurrent infections, 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage. there were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo, but none in those taking fluconazole (mean duration of follow-up, 164 days) (p = 0.03). in multivariate analyses, the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment (p = 0.02; relative hazard, 13.2), a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer (p = 0.05; relative hazard, 1.2), and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine (p = 0.09; relative hazard, 1.1). survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups. conclusions. in patients with aids, silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis. maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection.
combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery. the perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique. a group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone (ga), while in the group of 77 remaining patients, a combined epidural and general anesthesia (epi-ga) was employed. the two groups were similar in regards to age, medical risk factors, preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function, and type of surgical reconstruction. there was no significant difference in the anesthetic, operative time, or operative fluid requirements between the two groups. there was a lower rate pressure product in the epi-ga group during aortic cross clamping (p less than 0.05). more patients in the ga group required a prolonged ventilatory support (p less than 0.05) and a high parenteral narcotic administration (p less than 0.025) during the first 48 hours. while the mortality rate was similar for the two groups (3.0% for ga group vs 5.2% for epi-ga group), there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the ga group (7.6%) compared to the epi-ga group (2.6%). by facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period, epi-ga may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction.
calcium transport by plasma membranes from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma. inside-out plasma membrane vesicles from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma showed an atp- and mg2(+)-dependent uptake of ca2+. the km (concentration giving half-maximal activity) for ca2+ was 60 nm. in the presence of 0.4 microm free ca2+, the km for atp was 15 microm, and the km for mg2+ was 4 microm. glucose (30 mm) decreased ca2+ uptake by 50%, while other insulin secretagogues had no effect, except for glyceraldehyde, which stimulated ca2+ uptake. calmodulin increased the uptake of ca2+, while trifluoperazine and vanadate inhibited the uptake. the ca2(+)- and mg2(+)-dependent atpase from this tumor has a 10- to 20-fold higher requirement for ca2+, which suggests that this enzyme is not responsible for ca2+ transport, rather, ca2+ transport activity represents only a small fraction of the total ca2(+)-atpase activity. the physiological importance of ca2+ transport in insulin secretion is evident from the inhibition of ca2+ uptake by glucose, which leads to a decrease in ca2+ efflux from the cell. this inhibition would lead to an increase in intracellular free ca2+ and insulin release.
estimating and testing an index of responsiveness and the relationship of the index to power. responsiveness has been proposed as a criterion, in addition to reliability and validity, to evaluate instruments that measure quality of life or functional status. the responsiveness index measures the change in a quality of life score due to a treatment relative to the variability of changes in that score within a stable control group. we derive the expected value, variance and distribution of the responsiveness index and give a large sample distribution for comparing the responsiveness of two different instruments. we also give the relationship between the responsiveness index and the power of a test of treatment effect.
does ethamsylate reduce haemorrhage in transurethral prostatectomy? a double-blind, randomised trial of 44 consecutive patients undergoing transurethral prostatectomy demonstrated that ethamsylate (dicynene) did not reduce blood loss during either the operative or the post- operative periods.
endoscopy versus x-ray studies of the gastrointestinal tract: future health care implications. i did esophagogastroduodenoscopy in 147 patients and colonoscopy in 59 patients who had had gastrointestinal x-ray studies. the endoscopic procedure was done within 7 days after the x-ray study and/or while the patient was still symptomatic. the barium swallow findings were confirmed in only 40%; in the other 60%, the x-ray findings could not be confirmed. these unconfirmed x-ray findings were false-positive in 37.4%, false-negative in 16.3%, and suboptimal or nondiagnostic in 6.2%. the barium enema findings were confirmed in 32%. in the other 68%, the x-ray findings were false-positive in 42.3%, false-negative in 22%, and suboptimal in 3.3%. we conclude that in clinical or private practice, relying on x-ray studies alone may be associated with a high margin of diagnostic errors. when all factors are considered, the initial cost advantage of the x-ray studies appears to be lost. in future recommendations on the continuing dilemma of x-ray studies versus endoscopy, consideration should be given to factors other than the initial lower price of the x-ray studies.
primary adenocarcinoma of the temporal bone. a case with 40-year follow-up. adenomatous tumors of the temporal bone are rare neoplasms. this article records the 40-year course of a patient with adenocarcinoma of the temporal bone and reviews the literature pertinent to the biologic behavior, histologic appearance, prognosis, and treatment of this group of tumors.
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community: overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians. as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study, the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community (gric) in 1965 and later. death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths. in 78% of the deaths, the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records. the age- and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population (1639/100,000) was 1.9 times (95% ci 1.7-2.0) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races (878/100,000). in pima males, whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females, the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males, all races. moreover among males 25-34 years of age, the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races. diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59% of u.s. deaths in 1980, but only 19% of gric deaths. by contrast, the age- and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents, 6.5 times for cirrhosis, 7.4 times for homicide, 4.3 times for suicide, and 11.9 times for diabetes. tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima, for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death. the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents, alcoholic cirrhosis, homicide, suicide, diabetes mellitus, and infectious diseases. young pimas, especially the males, should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts. these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations.
postpartum amaurosis. blindness is a rare but dramatic complication of pregnancy and delivery. we present the case of a patient who developed toxemia at the time of delivery that with ineffective treatment resulted in cortical blindness without seizure activity. the pathogenesis as well as the diagnostic workup and treatment of this unusual complication are discussed.
effects of neuro-developmental treatment and orthoses on knee flexion during gait: a single-subject design. the interactive effects of neuro-developmental treatment and inhibitive ankle-height orthoses on gait were examined via a single-subject research design. knee flexion during gait at initial contact, mid-stance, heel-off, and mid-swing were measured in a 2-year-old girl with diplegia by use of a goniometer and freeze-frame videography. during the treatment and treatment/orthoses phases, a decrease in excessive knee flexion was noted. changes in trend over time were greater in the 3-week treatment phase than in the 3-week treatment/orthoses phase. changes in level at the initiation of the treatment/orthoses phase were greater than in the treatment phase. the described neuro-developmental treatment activities were conducted correctly 92% of the time according to an independent observer. the interrater reliability of goniometric data measured by videography was .93 using intraclass correlation coefficients. the results of this study suggest that both methods of treatment can be used to decrease excessive knee flexion during gait in a child with diplegia.
primary carcinoma of the gallbladder. seventy-four patients with primary carcinoma of the gallbladder, diagnosed over 18 years from 1969 to 1987, were studied retrospectively. the most common presenting complaint was abdominal pain, followed by jaundice and weight loss. surgery was performed in 61 patients and of these patients, only two had accurate preoperative diagnosis which was made by ultrasonography. twelve of the 13 patients who were treated medically had the disease diagnosed at autopsy. one of the 13 patients had the diagnosis of gallbladder cancer by the findings of ultrasonography and abdominal computed tomography (ct) scanning. the resectability of the surgically managed group was 36.1%, and the majority of patients with advanced tumors (82.2%) were deemed unresectable. the most common histologic type was adenocarcinoma. liver was the organ most commonly invaded (76.5%) by direct extension and/or metastases, followed by regional lymph nodes (52.9%). the overall 5-year survival rate was 5.4%. a high index of suspicion of the disease, intraoperative examination of gallbladder specimen, and earlier, more aggressive surgical treatment may improve patient survival.
a practical approach to the painful bladder syndrome. the painful bladder syndrome (pbs) is a progressive and painful disease of the bladder that may lead to fibrosis, contracture and reduction of bladder capacity. the usual symptoms are urinary urgency, frequency, nocturia, chronic pelvic pain and lower abdominal pain upon filling of the bladder. a retrospective analysis was performed on 21 women with pbs between march 1987 and march 1988. the patients were treated weekly with a bladder pillar block, bladder distention and dimethyl sulfoxide instillation. symptomatic relief was observed in 80% of the patients so treated. the maximum bladder volume increased from 185 to 475 ml (p less than .01). the side effects were minimal.
electroencephalographic activity related to palatal myoclonus in rem sleep. polysomnography, including electroencephalography, electromyography and electro-oculography was performed in three patients with palatal myoclonus (pm). the amplitude of the myoclonus decreased during sleep. the frequency did not change during non-rem sleep, but increased during rem sleep in two patients. ocular myoclonus synchronized with pm disappeared during deep sleep stages in two patients and reappeared during rem sleep in one of them. in the other patient, ocular myoclonus was noted only in rem sleep, being absent even when the patient was awake. all patients showed episodic eeg activities synchronous with myoclonic jerks only in rem sleep. these episodes were noted 5-15 times throughout the night, and each episode lasting for 1-7 s. they were negative or positive waves of saw-tooth appearance which were distributed predominantly in the central region. during the episodes, the frequency of myoclonic jerks increased in two patients. although it is known that rem sleep influences pm and ocular myoclonus, this is the first report demonstrating the electroencephalographic activity associated with pm.
the acutely affected abdomen in paraplegic spinal cord injury patients. the records of 145 paraplegic or quadriplegic patients were reviewed to identify those factors useful in the correct diagnosis of the acute abdomen in this population. twenty-one patients had 22 episodes of acute or subacute abdominal problems. presenting complaints, physical findings, and laboratory results were useful in various ways. however appropriate radiographic studies led to the correct diagnosis in 77% of patients. although paraplegic and quadriplegic patients are predisposed to a distinct constellation of medical problems, including urinary tract infection and calculi, they also may present with other abdominal conditions that cause significant morbidity and mortality if not promptly recognized.
a simple method to improve the accuracy of non-invasive ultrasound in selecting tia patients for cerebral angiography. a prospective study is reported of the ability of b mode ultrasound imaging and continuous wave doppler flow studies to detect different degrees of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ica) in 186 arteries in 99 patients with transient ischaemic attacks (tia) and minor ischaemic stroke. a simple mathematical equation has been developed which combines the image and flow data to provide a single predictor of the degree of angiographic stenosis which has advantages over either ultrasonic modality used alone. the sensitivity and specificity of the predictive model in the detection of stenosis greater than or equal to 25% was 73% and 98%, of stenosis greater than or equal to 50% was 90% and 93%, of stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, 65% and 99% and occlusion 100% and 94% respectively. the principal clinical value of ultrasound screening is to spare patients with "non-significant" stenosis the risk of unnecessary angiography. thus a simple measure of the duplex screening tests' performance is the proportion of all strokes occurring as a complication of angiography that are avoided by changing the investigation policy from "angiograms for all carotid tia and minor ischaemic stroke patients" to "angiograms for all patients with abnormal ultrasound results". if duplex scanning were used to select patients most likely to have a significant abnormality on angiography, depending on the degree of stenosis to be detected, 52-85% of angiographic strokes might be avoided. if the predictive equation were used 62-88% of angiographic strokes might be avoided.
liver transplantation for hepatoblastoma. the american experience. the current role of liver transplantation in treating malignant tumors of the liver is uncertain, except for select histologic types. pooled data on the results of liver transplantation in 12 children with hepatoblastoma is presented here. one half of the children are alive 24 to 70 (44 +/- 19) months after transplantation with no evidence of recurrence. three patients (25%) died of tumor recurrence and three (25%) died of other causes. unifocal and intrahepatic tumors were associated with better prognosis compared to the multifocal tumors and tumors with extrahepatic spread (p = 0.04 and 0.13). microscopically vascular invasion and the predominance of embryonal and/or anaplastic epithelium were associated with a poor prognosis compared to the tumors with no vascular invasion and with predominantly fetal epithelium (p = 0.08 and 0.1). it is concluded that continued efforts to treat unresectable hepatoblastomas by liver transplantation is justified and the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in improving the results needs to be better defined.
the effect of improved cementing techniques on component loosening in total hip replacement. an 11-year radiographic review. improved cementing techniques have been shown to decrease the rate of aseptic loosening of femoral components of cemented total hip replacements at five to seven years. we now report our results in 105 hips in 93 patients at 10 to 12.7 years (mean 11.2). the improved techniques included use of a medullary plug, a cement gun, a doughy mix of simplex p and a collared stem of chrome cobalt. only three femoral components had definitely loosened, none were probably loose and 24 were graded as possibly loose. in contrast, the incidence of radiographic loosening on the acetabular side was 42%. improved cementing techniques have produced a marked reduction in the rate of aseptic loosening of the femoral component, but the incidence of acetabular loosening is unchanged.
pharyngeal volume in asymptomatic snorers compared with nonsnoring volunteers. study objective: to determine if asymptomatic snorers have smaller pharyngeal volumes than age- and height-matched nonsnorers. design: we recruited asymptomatic heavy snorers and nonsnorers for a study. each snorer was matched by age (+/- 3 years) and height (+/- 2 inches) with a nonsnorer. the nonsnorers were required to be near ideal body weight. all volunteers underwent overnight polysomnography, pulmonary function testing, and magnetic resonance imaging of the pharynx while awake. the volume of the pharynx was determined by a computer with data input from a digitizing instrument. setting: veterans administration hospital and university of florida teaching hospital participants: nine volunteers were recruited for both the snorer and nonsnorer groups. each participant was paid $50. there were no interventions. measurements and results: there were no differences in sleep variables between the two groups. there was also no significant difference between pharyngeal volumes for the two groups. conclusions: the volume of the pharynx in asymptomatic snorers is similar to the volume in age- and height-matched nonsnorers.
does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms, stroke, or death? the identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms, stroke, and death. to investigate these concerns, we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies, each documented as technically satisfactory. post-operative duplex doppler examination data at 3 days, 1, 3, 6, 12 months, and annually thereafter in 484 arteries (85.5%) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis: normal (n = 306); 1% to 19% (n = 89); 20% to 50% (n = 40); more than 50% (n = 49, including 8 occluded). the incidence of more than 50% restenosis was 14.5% in female and 7.7% in male patients (p = 0.003). life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis (p = 0.05). stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis, although this difference did not reach statistical significance. when survival and stroke were both endpoints, the likelihood of patients with more than 50% restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20% stenotic group (p = 0.03). thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms, stroke, or early death.
zollinger-ellison syndrome. relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion. since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer, infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease. we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer, it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another, specific etiology, such as zollinger-ellison syndrome. gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome (17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis. all subjects, who were matched for age and sex, had undergone elective gastric resections. gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis. the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome (8/18) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer (16/18; p less than 0.02). moreover, chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer (p less than 0.01). in zollinger-ellison syndrome, peak acid output was lower in patients positive (median 22 meq/30 min) compared to those negative for h. pylori (median 32 meq/30 min; p less than 0.02) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori (p less than 0.05). h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology, such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome. h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion.
photosensitive epilepsies and photoconvulsive responses in arabs. the occurrence of photosensitivity (ps) was examined in 327 arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age with epilepsy by intermittent photic stimulation (ips). a control group of 192 nonepileptic arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age were also examined by ips. of the epileptic patients, 24 (7.3%) were photosensitive, an incidence comparable to that in whites in contradistinction to the reported rarity among african blacks. this finding indicates that environmental factors, particularly excessive sunshine, does not appear to influence the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients. the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients may depend more strongly on the presence of an epileptic syndrome known to have association with ps.
electroencephalographic parameters in assessing the cognitive function of children with epilepsy. many biological and psychological possibilities have to be considered when attempting to explain cognitive dysfunction in the individual child with epilepsy. electroencephalographic (eeg) information, which may be particularly relevant in some children, has mainly been studied in relation to the possible direct effects of seizure discharges on learning and behavior. such discharges can be divided into transient, brief or prolonged. prolonged seizure discharges includes nonconvulsive status epilepticus during wakefulness and status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep. in addition to the influence of seizure discharges, preliminary findings suggest that some children with epilepsy might have a subtle disorder of arousal mechanisms in sleep, possibly associated with impaired daytime performance.
thermally induced 'nicotine' stomatitis. a case report. a palatal lesion resembling "nicotine" stomatitis was found in a woman who did not smoke. however, the patient frequently drank extremely hot beverages. after she was instructed to reduce the temperature of the beverages, the lesion almost completely resolved. this suggests that heat was the primary cause of this lesion and also implicates heat as the major cause of nicotine stomatitis.
ocular complications of rheumatic diseases of childhood. the association between inflammatory ocular and articular disease is a strong one, although the pathogenesis of this relationship is obscure. for the physician or surgeon caring for children with chronic arthritis, awareness of the risk of chronic asymptomatic anterior uveitis is essential if early diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of visual impairment are to be accomplished. this is particularly true for children with pauciarticular-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis. acute symptomatic anterior uveitis is characteristic of disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis. whereas this disease is initially more unpleasant for the child, it has a good long-term prognosis.
neuroophthalmologic effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate. to test the hypothesis that visual disturbances are more common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration than at 1 to 4 days after discontinuation of the drug, 13 women underwent bedside neuroophthalmologic examinations during intravenous magnesium sulfate tocolysis at 2.0 to 3.0 gm hr and again at 1 to 4 days after cessation of therapy. visual symptoms were common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. blurred vision was present in 12 of 13 patients and diplopia was present in 10 of 13 patients. abnormal findings during neuroophthalmologic examination occurred in all patients during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. findings included ptosis, accommodative and convergence insufficiency, and abnormal pupillary responsiveness to light and near. all patients were symptom-free and had normal examinations after magnesium sulfate was discontinued. these findings suggest that visual disturbances with therapeutic magnesium sulfate are common.
multicenter trial of l-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients. ii. clinical and biochemical effects. since carnitine deficiency has been reported in some patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis, we studied the effects of intravenous infusion of l-carnitine or placebo at the end of each dialysis treatment. the trial, which lasted seven months (one month baseline, 6 months treatment) was multicenter, double blind, placebo controlled, and randomized. eighty-two long-term hemodialysis patients, who were given either carnitine (n = 38) or placebo (n = 44), completed this study. in each group, clinical and biochemical parameters during treatment were compared with baseline values. intra-dialytic hypotension and muscle cramps were reduced only in the carnitine treated group, while improvement in post-dialysis asthenia was noticed in both carnitine and placebo groups. maximal oxygen consumption, measured during a progressive work exercise test, improved significantly in the carnitine group (111 +/- 50 ml/min. p less than 0.03) and was unchanged in the placebo group. l-carnitine treatment was associated with a significant drop in pre-dialysis concentrations of serum urea nitrogen, creatinine and phosphorus (means +/- sem, 101 +/- 4.5 to 84 +/- 3.9, 16.7 +/- 0.67 to 14.7 +/- 0.64, and 6.4 +/- 0.3 to 5.5 +/- 0.4 mg/dl, respectively, p less than 0.004). no significant changes in any of these variables were noticed in the placebo group. mid-arm circumference and triceps skinfold thickness were measured in 11 carnitine and 13 placebo treated patients. calculated mid-arm muscle area increased in the carnitine patients (41.37 +/- 2.68 to 45.6 +/- 2.82 cm2, p = 0.05) and remained unchanged in the placebo patients.
orthopedic complications. compartment syndrome, fat embolism syndrome, and venous thromboembolism. specialized education in the care of orthopedic patients includes an understanding of the common complications for which patients require monitoring. with a socioeconomic backdrop of decreasing hospital stays and prospective payment, patient care must be managed proactively. for all three complications presented, there are unique sets of risk factors that, when present, contribute to a high index of suspicion for morbidity. clusters of symptoms have also been discussed representing the expected normal patterns. with this knowledge as a foundation, clinical application is essential to incorporate other salient aspects of individual situations. nurses diagnose and treat human responses to health problems. the end result of human responses to injury or orthopedic conditions can be the development of complications. stringent adherence to patient monitoring protocols can promote timely nursing interventions to prevent, minimize, or detect complications or treatment side effects. although definitive treatment is often physician directed, nurses are in a key role to impact final patient outcomes.
aminoglycosides: assessing the potential for nephrotoxicity. although aminoglycosides have been a mainstay of antibiotic therapy in postsurgical infections, certain patients may be at risk for potential aminoglycoside induced toxicities. aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity is one of the most frequent causes of iatrogenic renal failure. a narrow toxicity to therapeutic ratio, a relatively long serum half-life and concentration in the renal cortex all contribute to renal dysfunction. patients at greatest risk for aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity include the elderly, patients with pre-existing renal disease and those who are volume depleted. calculations based on the results of a multicenter study demonstrate that the average additional cost incurred for each patient who had aminoglycoside-related nephrotoxicity was $2,501. methods are reviewed for prospectively assessing the potential for development of nephrotoxicity to identify patients for whom effective therapeutic substitutes for aminoglycosides should be sought.
cervical muscle myoelectric response to acute experimental sternocleidomastoid pain. a method is presented for investigating the response of passive and active muscle to experimentally induced deep muscle pain. ten healthy adult males performed multiple, submaximal isometric neck flexion tasks before and after pain had been induced in the sternocleidomastoid (scm) muscle by injecting 5 ml of a hypertonic (5%) saline solution. a similar volume of isotonic saline was injected into the contralateral muscle as a control. cervical myoelectric signal (mes) root-mean-square (rms) response to each injection was recorded from eight neck muscles over 8 minutes. the subject rated perceived pain at regular intervals using a visual analog scale (vas). sternocleidomastoid pain, which reached a mean of 36 mm on the 100-mm vas 2 minutes after the injection, resulted in significantly increased (1-2 microv, p less than 0.05) rms mes in the otherwise relaxed scm muscle during the first 2 minutes. this was followed by a gradual return to control values after 5 minutes. a similar trend in mes was found for the active scm muscle during a 10% maximum voluntary contraction (mvc) isometric neck flexion effort. thus, acute deep muscle pain caused subtle, yet systematic, changes in motor output in both the relaxed and active painful muscle, and its synergists and antagonists.
esophageal inflammation and stricture: complication of chronic granulomatous disease of childhood. esophagitis in children with immunodeficiency is most commonly due to opportunistic infection. the authors describe three patients with chronic granulomatous disease (cgd) of childhood who developed esophageal strictures that were believed to be complications of the primary disease. at radiologic examination, all three patients initially had a focal narrowing of the upper thoracic esophagus. endoscopy showed no signs of opportunistic infection or barrett esophagus. biopsy of the strictures in two patients revealed findings consistent with cgd. in two of the three patients, inflammation extended to involve the middle and distal esophagus. long-term response to balloon dilation was poor in the first two patients. the third patient was lost to follow-up after a partial clinical and radiographic response to dilation.
congenital midline nasal masses: diagnosis and management. congenital midline nasal masses (cmnms) are rare lesions most commonly caused by dermoids, hemangiomas, nasal gliomas or encephaloceles. we report a case of nasal glioma and discuss the embryologic development, evaluation, and management of such cmnms.
branch retinal vein occlusion: the pathogenetic role of blood viscosity. the pathogenesis of branch retinal vein occlusion has not been completely clarified. the role of abnormal blood viscosity in the appearance and evolution of the disease has recently been advocated. we studied 54 patients with long-standing branch retinal vein occlusion from a hemorrheologic point of view. depending on the extension of retinal ischemia, two subgroups were identified. hematocrit, blood and plasma viscosity, whole blood filterability, cell deformability, and fibrinogen levels were investigated. thirty-five subjects of similar age, sex, and risk factors of diabetes and hypertension served as controls. our results showed that blood viscosity is higher in patients with occlusion and particularly in those with severe retinal ischemia. statistical analysis showed a direct correlation between blood viscosity and hematocrit.
neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract. gastrointestinal motility is the function of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. it is controlled by both the intrinsic and extrinsic nerves of the gastrointestinal tract and, to a lesser degree, the gastrointestinal hormones. therefore, any abnormality of the above factors, theoretically, can cause gastrointestinal dysmotility. in a clinical situation, commonly seen is gastrointestinal dysmotility caused by either smooth muscle or intrinsic and extrinsic nerves dysfunction. diseases that cause smooth muscle dysfunction include familial visceral myopathies, nonfamilial visceral myopathies, collagen disease, muscular dystrophies, amyloidosis, thyroid disease, and so on. diseases that cause enteric nerve dysfunction include familial visceral neuropathies, nonfamilial visceral neuropathies, diabetes mellitus, chagas' disease, ganglioneuromatosis of the intestine, visceral neuropathy of carcinomatosis, parkinson's disease, and so on. the patients with neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract have a wide range of clinical manifestations regardless of the underlying cause. at one end of the spectrum, the patients may be asymptomatic, and at the other end of the spectrum, the patients may have functional obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract. plain abdominal x-rays, upper gastrointestinal (ugi) and small bowel x-rays, enteroclysis, barium enema, and manometric studies are useful for the work-up of these patients. enteroclysis is especially helpful in ruling out mechanical obstruction of the small intestine in patients with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive. there is no effective drug to improve gastrointestinal motility. surgery may be helpful in selected cases of severe gastrointestinal dysmotility.
cytogenetic analysis of 434 consecutively ascertained specimens of non-hodgkin's lymphoma: clinical correlations. cytogenetic and histopathologic data were correlated with clinical parameters from 423 patients with non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl). clinical correlations were performed on subgroups of 149 patients with low-grade lymphoma (lg) and 205 patients with diffuse lymphoma with a large cell component (dllc). correlations were made between clinical outcome and individual recurring cytogenetic aberrations, each of which was noted in greater than 5% of cases belonging to lg nhl and dllc, and derived measures of karyotypic complexity, comprising modal chromosome number, number of marker chromosomes, and number of translocation breakpoints. no correlations with survival were noted in lg nhl, although median follow-up was only 2 years. seven patients with t(8;14) lg nhl had an indolent course. among 104 patients with dllc and abnormal karyotypes at diagnosis, breaks at 1q21-23 or more than 4 marker chromosomes was associated with a shortened median survival. using these variables we constructed a proportional hazards model with a good fit to observed data. breaks at 6q21-25 predicted a decreased probability of achieving remission. patients with dllc and breaks at 1q21-23 or 1p32-36 had a shorter duration of complete remission. of 41 dllc studied at relapse, the only long-term survivors had t(14;18).
venous air embolism. diagnosis by spontaneous right-sided contrast echocardiography. this report describes the definitive diagnosis of venous air-embolism by documentation of spontaneous echo contrast in the right cardiac chambers following removal of a jugular venous catheter in a patient with hepatic failure. this complication was potentiated by the presence of concurrent hepatic coagulopathy which prejudiced effective hemostasis at the central venous puncture site.
an improved photochemical model of embolic cerebral infarction in rats. to provide further evidence that the multiple cerebral infarcts found in rats following photochemical damage to the carotid artery are caused by emboli and to eliminate the systemic hypotension and heating of the blood reported with the previous photochemical embolic stroke model (rose bengal and a green laser), i have modified the photochemical technique. brain pathology was studied in 18 wistar rats following carotid artery irradiation with a red laser (632 nm) at powers ranging from 100 to 800 mw/cm2 for 10 or 20 minutes following the injection of the photosensitizing dye photofrin ii. multiple cerebral arterioles were occluded by platelet aggregates containing frequent erythrocytes and leukocytes, identical to the thrombotic material in the carotid artery but different from the platelet aggregates seen in the carotid artery and the brain in the rose bengal model. eighty infarcts were distributed randomly throughout the brain ipsilateral to the nonocclusive carotid thrombus. significant heating (0.5 degree c or more) of the blood occurred only with laser powers higher (1,600 mw/cm2) or laser irradiations longer (25 minutes) than those used in the improved model of embolic stroke. this model mimics one mechanism of stroke in humans and provides a means to study systematically the morphological evolution of small cerebral infarcts.
the impact of right ventricular infarction on the prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias during acute inferior myocardial infarction. to determine the impact of rv infarction on the prevalence and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias during inferior ami, 57 patients with no prior mi were studied by 24-hour holter monitoring on the first and tenth days of ami. based on radionuclear studies, patients were allocated into two groups: (1) group a, 21 patients (37 percent) with normal rvef (greater than or equal to 40 percent); and (2) group b, 36 patients (63 percent) with depressed rvef (less than 40 percent). there were no significant differences between the groups regarding age and lvef. values of rvef were 47 +/- 6 percent and 31 +/- 6 percent, respectively (p less than 0.05). the rvef had no influence on the prevalence and complexity of early and late arrhythmias. stratification of patients in group b into two subgroups based on the extent of rv dysfunction did not reveal any differences in the occurrence of all forms of ectopy (when both groups were matched to group a). therefore, patients with inferior ami, with or without rv infarction, have a similar prevalence of arrhythmias. ventricular ectopic beats may be related to the severity and spread of lv involvement, rather than to rv dysfunction.
le fort i osteotomy approach to the skull base. horizontal osteotomy allows the surgeon to safely down-fracture the maxilla for wide exposure of the central skull base. this surgical approach is easily extended posteriorly in the midline to include the clivus and the arch of c1, providing 8 cm of horizontal anterior exposure and 5 cm of posterior. wide operative exposure and a low rate of complications afford superior functional and cosmetic preservation in removing tumors of the central cranial base.
entrapment neuropathy of the median nerve at the level of the ligament of struthers. the presence of a supracondylar process and struthers' ligament is a rare congenital anomaly that may cause compression of either the median nerve, the brachial artery, or both. the authors present a case in which the supracondylar process and struthers' ligament compressed both the median nerve and the brachial artery. this case is unusual, in that the symptoms of compression of the brachial artery increased--namely, the pulse intensity decreased and the pain increased with elbow flexion.
identification of a melanoma progression antigen as integrin vla-2. the expression of the integrin receptors vla-1, -2, -3, and -6 was studied in normal cultured melanocytes and in five melanoma cell lines. normal melanocytes synthesized vla-3, but did not reveal detectable levels of vla-1, -2, and -6. all melanoma cell lines, however, expressed vla-2, -3, and -6. vla-1 was synthesized by two of five melanoma lines. in parallel, we had analyzed the expression of four previously characterized melanoma cell surface antigens. one of them (antigen a.1.43), which is associated with tumor progression of human melanoma, revealed a striking similarity to vla-2. in sequential immunoprecipitation experiments, we show that a.1.43 is identical with the integrin vla-2, a cell surface receptor for collagen, laminin, and fibronectin.
loss of heterozygosity on chromosomes 17 and 18 in breast carcinoma: two additional regions identified. the loss of heterozygosity (loh) at specific regions of the human genome in tumor dna is recognized as evidence for a tumor-suppressor gene located within the corresponding region of the homologous chromosome. restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of a panel of primary human breast tumor dnas has led to the identification of two additional regions on chromosomes 17q and 18q that frequently are affected by loh. deletions of each of these regions have a significant correlation with clinical parameters that are associated with aggressive breast carcinomas. previous restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of this panel of tumors has uncovered several other frequently occurring mutations. loh on chromosome 18q frequently occurs in tumors with concomitant loh of loci on chromosomes 17p and 11p. similarly, tumors having loh on 17q also have loh on chromosomes 1p and 3p. this suggests that certain combinations of mutations may collaborate in the development and malignant progression of breast carcinomas.
effect of intravenous streptokinase on early mortality in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. a meta-analysis by anatomic location of infarction [published erratum appears in ann intern med 1991 mar 15;114(6):522] purpose: to determine the effect of intravenous streptokinase on early mortality in patients with suspected acute anterior and acute inferior myocardial infarctions. data identification: a literature search of english-language studies on the use of intravenous streptokinase in the treatment of suspected acute myocardial infarction for the period 1966 to 1989 using medlars ii and the bibliographies of relevant articles. in a number of instances, additional details on early mortality by location of myocardial infarction were provided by the authors. study selection: of 140 originally identified articles, 6 that specifically met our inclusion criteria were selected: randomized trials that used intravenous streptokinase in a dose of 1.5 million units, with or without additional agents, compared with a group that differed only by the absence of streptokinase. trials were selected by review of the methods section without regard for the results. data extraction: data were extracted independently by two observers using specific methodologic criteria for infarct location and early mortality. after they conferred, the observers agreed completely on the data. results of data synthesis: among the 9155 patients with suspected acute anterior myocardial infarction, the mortality rate in the control group was 17.4%. in contrast, patients treated with streptokinase had a 12.5% mortality. the mean risk difference was -4.8% (95% ci, -7.5% to -2.1%) and the summary risk ratio was 0.72 (ci, 0.65 to 0.79). a total of 9650 patients with suspected inferior infarction had a mortality rate in the control group of 7.6% [corrected]. the mortality for streptokinase-treated patients was 6.6%. the mean risk difference was -0.8% (ci, -1.8% to 0.2%) and the summary risk ratio was 0.87 (ci, 0.76 to 1.01). conclusions: intravenous streptokinase clearly confers a protective effect against early mortality in patients with suspected acute anterior myocardial infarction. the magnitude of this effect is on the order of a 5% absolute reduction in risk of death by 21 to 35 days. for these patients, 21 need to be treated to save 1 additional life. for patients with suspected acute inferior infarction, the benefit of treatment on reducing early mortality is of smaller magnitude and less certain. these patients have an estimated absolute reduction of early mortality of approximately 1%, which would require treating 125 patients to save 1 additional life.
mapping of a functional autoimmune epitope on the beta 1-adrenergic receptor in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. the presence and properties of serum autoantibodies against beta-adrenergic receptors in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were studied using synthetic peptides derived from the predicted sequences of the human beta-adrenergic receptors. peptides corresponding to the sequences of the second extracellular loop of the human beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptors were used as antigens in an enzyme immunoassay to screen sera from patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (n = 42), ischemic heart disease (n = 17), or healthy blood donors (n = 34). the sera of thirteen dilated cardiomyopathy patients, none of the ischemic heart disease patients, and four of the healthy controls monospecifically recognized the beta 1-peptide. only affinity-purified antibodies of these patients had a inhibitory effect on radioligand binding to the beta 1 receptor of c6 rat glioma cells. they recognized the receptor protein by immunoblot and bound in situ to human myocardial tissue. we conclude that a subgroup of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy have in their sera autoantibodies specifically directed against the second extracellular loop of the beta 1-adrenergic receptor. these antibodies could serve as a marker of an autoimmune response with physiological and/or pathological implications.
primary progressive aphasia. longitudinal course, neuropsychological profile, and language features. four patients with the clinical syndrome of primary progressive aphasia and a nonfluent aphasia profile were followed up over a period of 3 to 5 years. extensive neuropsychological data for three patients revealed a progressive, quantitative decline of language with relative stability of memory, visuospatial skills, and reasoning. comportment and most activities of daily living were preserved even when speech was unintelligible. although several aphasia types may be associated with primary progressive aphasia, a nonfluent aphasia profile and phonemic paraphasic errors are most useful in differentiating it from the much more common clinical syndrome, "probable alzheimer's disease." the clinicopathological correlates of probable alzheimer's disease differ from those associated with primary progressive aphasia. therefore, the clinical distinction between the two syndromes may be important for predicting the underlying pathophysiologic changes during the life of the patient.
beta 2-microglobulin predicts survival in primary systemic amyloidosis. purpose: the study assessed whether beta 2-microglobulin levels predict survival or response in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis without associated multiple myeloma. patients and methods: the study group consisted of 131 untreated patients with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis diagnosed and evaluated at the mayo clinic. no patient had multiple myeloma. the minimum follow-up of surviving patients is 8 years. no patient was lost to follow-up. results: the median survival of patients with an increased beta 2-microglobulin level was 10.8 months, compared with patients with a normal beta 2-microglobulin level (less than or equal to 2.7 micrograms/ml, 0.23 mumol/l) of 32.9 months (p less than 0.001). in a multivariate proportional-hazards model, the best model included congestive heart failure (p less than 0.0001) and increased beta 2-microglobulin levels (p less than 0.05). after adjustment for the presence of congestive heart failure, beta 2-microglobulin level remained significant. when the analysis was restricted to those patients with normal renal function, the median survival of those with an elevated beta 2-microglobulin level was 9.1 months versus 39.4 months for those with a normal level (p less than 0.001). the serum level of beta 2-microglobulin was increased in patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria with or without renal insufficiency (p = 0.05). conclusion: the serum beta 2-microglobulin level should be measured routinely in all patients with primary systemic amyloidosis because it provides a useful objective factor to identify subsets of patients with this disease who have unfavorable outcomes.
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests. serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation, which so often accompany systemic illness, have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy. we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests: a decreased serum t3 concentration; normal or, in critically ill patients, a low total serum t4 level; and a normal free t4 concentration. another, less frequent pattern (high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient. with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4, it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients; the vast majority are euthyroid. certain drugs confound the picture. the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids, both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism. other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices (e.g., amiodarone). knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness, starvation, and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease.
psychological outcomes of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer outside a clinical trial objectives--to assess outside a clinical trial the psychological outcome of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer who underwent either mastectomy or breast conservation surgery depending on the surgeon's opinion or the patient's choice. to determine whether the extent of psychiatric morbidity reported in women who underwent breast conservation surgery was associated with their participation in a randomised clinical trial. design--prospective, multicentre study capitalising on individual and motivational differences among patients and the different management policies among surgeons for treating patients with early breast cancer. setting--12 district general hospitals, three london teaching hospitals, and four private hospitals. patients--269 women under 75 with a probable diagnosis of stage i or ii breast cancer who were referred to 22 different surgeons. interventions--surgery and radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy, or both, depending on the individual surgeon's stated preferences for managing early breast cancer. main outcome measures--anxiety and depression as assessed by standard methods two weeks, three months, and 12 months after surgery. results--of the 269 women, 31 were treated by surgeons who favoured mastectomy, 120 by surgeons who favoured breast conservation, and 118 by surgeons who offered a choice of treatment. sixty two of the women treated by surgeons who offered a choice were eligible to choose their surgery, and 43 of these chose breast conserving surgery. the incidences of anxiety, depression, and sexual dysfunction were high in all treatment groups. there were no significant differences in the incidences of anxiety and depression between women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy. a significant effect of surgeon type on the incidence of depression was observed, with patients treated by surgeons who offered a choice showing less depression than those treated by other surgeons (p = 0.06). there was no significant difference in psychiatric morbidity between women treated by surgeons who offered a choice who were eligible to choose their treatment and those in the same group who were not able to choose. most of the women (159/244) gave fear of cancer as their primary fear rather than fear of losing a breast. the overall incidences of psychiatric morbidity in women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy were similar to those found in the cancer research campaign breast conservation study. at 12 months 28% of women who underwent mastectomy in the present study were anxious compared with 26% in the earlier study, and 27% of women in the present study who underwent lumpectomy were anxious compared with 31% in the earlier study. in both the present and earlier study 21% of women who underwent mastectomy were depressed, and 19% of women who underwent lumpectomy in the present study were depressed compared with 27% in the earlier study.) conclusions--there is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy. women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological, sexual, or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial.
chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses. chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries. as a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings, the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support. genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections. an understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease.
right coronary artery injury during tricuspid valve annuloplasty. an unusual complication after tricuspid valve annuloplasty is described where a ring suture ligated right coronary artery and precipitated myocardial infarct and patient death. the need for caution to prevent this complication with such surgery is emphasized.
locked intramedullary fixation for metaphyseal malunion and nonunion. locked intramedullary rod fixation, established for metaphyseal fractures, is applicable to reconstructive procedures. fourteen cases of complex nonunion or malunion (five infected) were reviewed retrospectively. thirteen of the 14 fractures united. eleven of 14 required an open procedure for removal of metal, soft-tissue release, bone grafting, osteotomy, or resection of infected bone. infections were controlled by resection, depot antibiotics, and early stabilization. interlocking intramedullary rods are an excellent fixation technique for posttraumatic metaphyseal reconstructive procedures.
reperfusion arrhythmias after thrombolysis. electrophysiologic tempest, or much ado about nothing. arrhythmias that may accompany myocardial reperfusion have generated significant clinical interest. first, there were concerns, based on animal studies, that high-grade ventricular tachyarrhythmias would pose a serious threat following thrombolytic therapy to treat an evolving myocardial infarction. second, lower-grade arrhythmias, such as accelerated idioventricular rhythm, were cited as useful, noninvasive markers of successful reperfusion. critical review of the current data, however, indicates that arrhythmias following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction are usually neither dangerous clinical events nor consistent markers of reperfusion.
treatment of solitary arteriovenous fistulas. four patients with a solitary arteriovenous fistula were treated by transvascular balloon embolization technique, which resulted in complete fistula closure in three patients and partial closure in one. there were two vertebral arteriovenous fistulas, one peroneal arteriovenous fistula, and one radial arteriovenous fistula. the first two fistulas were spontaneous, the other two were traumatic. the only partial occlusion of the peroneal fistula was, in our opinion, due to a technical failure, the balloon was inflated slightly proximal to the fistular orificium instead of in the orificium itself. there were no complications, and there was no morbidity. in our opinion transvascular balloon embolization technique is the treatment of choice for solitary arteriovenous fistulas.
mic2 is a specific marker for ewing's sarcoma and peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors. evidence for a common histogenesis of ewing's sarcoma and peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors from mic2 expression and specific chromosome aberration. this study reports on the specific expression of the mic2 gene, a pseudoautosomal gene located on the short arms of the x and y chromosomes, on ewing's sarcoma (es) and peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (ppnet) cells. the gene product, a cell membrane protein, is recognized by the newly established monoclonal antibody (moab) hba-71 and the previously described moab 12e7 and rfb-1. furthermore, the reaction pattern of the mic2 antibodies, especially hba-71, with normal tissues and a great number of benign and malignant tumors (70 different tumors, 199 tumor samples), as well as the correlation between the specific chromosomal aberrations, i.e., the t(11;22) and the del(22) and the expression of this antigen, are demonstrated. both es and ppnet cells express the mic2 gene in very high amounts, which represents a highly selective and almost unique feature of these cells, making an assignment of these tumors in one entity even more likely. the mic2 antibodies are of great value for clinical and research purposes.
purification and characterization of an inhibitor (soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor) for tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxin obtained from the serum ultrafiltrates of human cancer patients. serum ultrafiltrates (suf) from human patients with different types of cancer contain a blocking factor (bf) that inhibits the cytolytic activity of human tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) in vitro. bf is a protein with a molecular mass of 28 kda on reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (sds/page). the active material was purified to homogeneity by a combination of affinity chromatography, page, and high-pressure liquid chromatography. amino acid sequence analysis revealed that bf is derived from the membrane tnf receptor. purified bf blocks the lytic activity of recombinant human and mouse tnf-alpha and recombinant human lymphotoxin on murine l929 cells in vitro. however, bf inhibits the lytic activity of tnf-alpha more effectively than it does that of lymphotoxin. the bf also inhibits the necrotizing activity of recombinant human tnf-alpha when coinjected into established cutaneous meth a tumors in balb/c mice. the bf may have an important role in (i) the regulation and control of tnf-alpha and lymphotoxin activity in cancer patients, (ii) interaction between the tumor and the host antitumor mechanisms, and (iii) use of systemically administered tnf-alpha in clinical trials with human cancer patients.
the framingham disability study: relationship of various coronary heart disease manifestations to disability in older persons living in the community. the relation between coronary heart disease and disability was examined in 2,576 community-dwelling women and men ages 55-88 years. these framingham study participants were originally recruited in 1948-51 for an examination of cardiovascular disease. twenty-seven years later, remaining members of the cohort were interviewed to ascertain physical abilities, and a score on a disability scale was assigned. multivariate logistic analyses examined disability in relation to uncomplicated angina pectoris (ap), complicated ap, and coronary heart disease other than ap, controlling for possible confounders. in younger and older women and men, uncomplicated and complicated ap were associated with disability. coronary heart disease other than ap was associated with disability only in the younger men. congestive heart failure predicted disability only in the women. these results suggest that onset of ap should be recognized as a critical point in the development of disability and that ap is a better predictor of disability than is myocardial infarction or coronary insufficiency.
the increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression. cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression. cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital. cervical dysplasia-neoplasia (including five cases of invasive carcinoma) was seen in 41% of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. in human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9%, and in the sample from outpatients in 4%, including two cases of invasive carcinoma (p less than 0.01). cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population (p less than 0.01). frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of cd4+ helper/inducer t lymphocytes and correlated significantly (p less than 0.01) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin, pokeweed mitogen, and tetanus toxoid. these results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection, which is related to the degree of immunosuppression.
dysphagia following fundoplication: "slipped" fundoplication versus achalasia complicated by fundoplication. failure to obtain preoperative esophageal manometry in patients being considered for antireflux surgery can result in immediate persistent postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia. we describe the clinical assessment and management of a case of delayed postoperative dysphagia due to a "slipped" fundoplication, which is contrasted with three patients with immediate postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia. surgical revision was required to correct the "slipped" fundoplication, and pneumatic dilatation was successfully used in two of three cases of achalasia complicated by fundoplication. careful preoperative esophageal evaluation with manometry is essential to rule out the presence of a primary esophageal motor disorder.
extracranial metastatic glioblastoma: appearance on thallium-201-chloride/technetium-99m-hmpao spect images. sequential thallium-201-chloride and technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) images were obtained in a patient with extracranial metastatic glioblastoma multiforme. thallium-201 uptake was high (three times the scalp background) in all pathologically confirmed extracranial metastases and moderate (1.6 times scalp background) intracranially, where most biopsy specimens showed gliosis with scattered atypical astrocytes. technetium-99m-hmpao uptake was decreased intracranially in the right frontal and parietal lobes which had been irradiated. it was also decreased in one well-encapsulated scalp lesion and high in another scalp mass with less defined borders. possible mechanisms of tumor uptake of these agents are reviewed.
parental presence during procedures in an emergency room: results from 50 observations. this report describes the physician-parent-child encounter during an invasive medical procedure in a pediatric emergency department. fifty children underwent venipuncture or intravenous cannulation performed by 22 physicians and 6 nurses. the median age of the children was 12 months. parents remained with their children during 31 (62%) of the 50 procedures. parents were more likely to stay if they had previously stayed when this child (p = .05) or another (p = .02) had undergone a procedure. parental decision to stay was not related to parental age, gender, race, marital status, or level of education, nor to the residents' age, gender, or level of training. only 43% of the parents who did stay were given that option by the residents, and of those who did not stay 37% reported that physicians asked them to leave. nonverbal cues by the residents, such as pulling the curtain closed or turning their back toward parents, were noted in 58% of the encounters in which parents did not stay. the residents and nurses indicated that parents should stay with their child for the following procedures: laceration repair, 66%; venipuncture, 58%; intravenous cannulation, 48%; arterial blood sampling, 32%; suprapubic aspiration, 20%; and lumbar puncture, 14%. in the emergency room studied, it appears that for venipuncture and intravenous cannulation, the majority of parents stay with their children. parental decision to stay or leave is frequently made without discussion with the physician.
progress in the search for genetic linkage with tourette syndrome: an exclusion map covering more than 50% of the autosomal genome. gilles de la tourette syndrome is a neuropsychiatric disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance and reduced penetrance at a single genetic locus. several research groups have genetic linkage studies underway to detect the chromosomal location of the gene that predisposes for this disorder. strong and clear evidence of linkage has not yet been produced for tourette syndrome. this paper presents an overview of the methods and progress of the groups centered at yale university and erasmus university in excluding linkage from a large portion of the genome. our labs have screened 228 genetic marker loci for linkage with a gene for this disorder in a series of affected families in the united states, canada, the netherlands, and norway. more than 50% (and perhaps as much as 66%) of the autosomal genome has now been excluded on the assumption that genetic heterogeneity is not an important factor in the tourette syndrome pedigrees pooled for this summary.
successful conservative management of primary nonmetastatic cervical choriocarcinoma. primary cervical choriocarcinoma is a rare disease; since 1915 only about 60 cases have been published. the case presented here can be defined as primary cervical choriocarcinoma since it fulfills all the criteria delineated previously.
lightning injury with lung bleeding in a tracheotomized patient. a 68-year-old man, who had undergone laryngectomy six months earlier, was struck by lightning and developed pulmonary hemorrhage. this was attributed to pulmonary barotrauma due to a lightning blast via his tracheostoma.
loss of consciousness after emergence from anaesthesia. a case of suspected micturition syncope. a case of postanaesthesia micturition syncope with respiratory arrest is described. if syncope occurs, the temporary myocardial ischaemia and cerebral hypoperfusion may increase anaesthetic risk in the marginally compensated patient. the loss of airway protection during the syncopal period is also a cause of concern. we recommend the use of an indwelling bladder catheter during any prolonged surgical procedure.
radiation therapy in metastatic spinal cord compression. a prospective analysis of 105 consecutive patients. one hundred thirty consecutive patients with metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc) were entered in a therapeutic protocol in which radiation therapy (rt) played the main role. when mscc is diagnosed by clinical-radiologic methods such as myelography with or without computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri), steroids are given and rt treatment started within 24 hours. when diagnostic doubts exist or stabilization is necessary, surgery precedes rt. chemohormonal potentially responsive tumors are also treated with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy. twelve patients (9.2%) underwent surgery plus rt, and 118 (90.8%) received rt alone. thirteen (11%) early death patients were not evaluable. the 105 evaluable cases that received rt alone were analyzed. median follow-up was 15 months (range, 4 to 38 months). response among patients with back pain was 80%. in cases with motor dysfunction, 48.6% improved, and in 33 of 105 patients (31.4%) without motor disability there was no deterioration. forty percent of patients with autonomic dysfunction responded to rt. median survival time was 7 months with a 36% probability of survival for 1 year. the median duration of improvement was 8 months. the most important prognostic factor was early diagnosis. radiosensitivity of tumor was only important in paraparetic patients in predicting response to rt. complete myelographic block significantly diminished response to rt. vertebral collapse did not influence response or survival.
perforation and tumor formation of the intestine in primary amyloidosis. we report a case of primary amyloidosis with repeated bowel perforations. this patient also had localized amyloid deposition creating a tumorous region mimicking malignancy in the rectum. perforation of the intestine is common in systemic amyloidosis. the ischemic change due to amyloid infiltration into the vessel wall may lead to perforation of the affected bowel. amyloid tumors occur more often in localized amyloid than in systemic amyloidosis. macroscopically, it is difficult to distinguish amyloid tumor of the intestine from neoplasia.
unusually late onset of cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea after head trauma. two cases of acute meningitis and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, in which the head trauma responsible occurred 10 and 30 years before, are presented. intraoperatively, the brain parenchyma was found to be plugged into the fractured anterior fossa. by debridement and duraplasty from an intradural approach, both patients were cured. several precipitating factors could be responsible for this unusually late reopening of the fistula. the possible accidental causes could be coughing or undetected microtraumas, but in the long run, atrophy of tissues and consequent changes in brain compliance with aging may play a role.
implications of peritoneal cytology for staging of early pancreatic cancer. cytologic examination of peritoneal washings was performed in 40 patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (35 head, 5 body) whose tumors had been selected as potentially resectable by computed tomographic (ct) findings. saline (100 ml) was instilled and aspirated at laparoscopy in 27 patients and at laparotomy in 13. malignant cells were found in the peritoneal washings in 12 of 40 patients (30%): 29% in cancers of the pancreatic head versus 40% in the body; 33% at laparoscopy versus 23% at laparotomy; and in 4 of 8 patients with ascites versus 8 of 32 without ascites. the cytology was positive in 6 of 8 patients (75%) who had a prior percutaneous needle biopsy versus 6 of 32 (19%) of those who did not (p less than 0.01). liver metastases were found in six patients, all with negative cytology. one of 10 pancreatic head cancers with positive cytology was resectable versus 13 of 25 with negative cytology (p less than 0.05). survival was significantly longer in patients with negative cytology. we conclude that (1) pancreatic cancer sheds malignant cells into the peritoneum early and commonly; (2) laparoscopic lavage is an effective means of cytologic study; (3) ascites is not a precondition for cytologic study, nor does its presence necessarily imply carcinomatosis; (4) intraperitoneal spread of cancer cells may be promoted by tumor biopsy; (5) cytologic findings provide an additional index of resectability; and (6) cytologic findings appear to correlate with duration of survival. this study shows that even "localized" pancreatic cancer is often not contained and suggests caution with biopsy of potentially curable lesions.
multiple breakpoint method for measuring effect of antibiotics on endocarditis strains of streptococci. the activity of penicillin alone and combined with aminoglycoside on endocarditis strains of streptococci was examined. good assay reproducibility was obtained by the use of logarithmic phase cultures standardised by opacity, careful inoculation of well-plates, removal of antibiotic by membrane transfer and incubating survival counts in hydrogen plus carbon dioxide. the use of 10-fold intervals for penicillin concentration simplified assay design without loss of efficiency.
familial eating epilepsy. eating-related seizures affecting 20 individuals among 59 siblings belonging to nine families are presented. the type of epilepsy was partial in all the affected individuals, and the seizures complex in 15 and simple in 5, secondarily generalized in the majority. the onset of epilepsy, in most cases, was in the second decade of life. a remarkable degree of intra-family consistency was observed with regard to age at onset, symptomatology of seizures and timing of eating seizures. the study demonstrates sibling clustering in a partial epilepsy, implicating for the first time genetic susceptibility in the aetiology of eating epilepsy.
malignant adenolymphoma of the parotid gland: report of carcinomatous transformation. malignant transformation of an adenolymphoma (warthin's tumour) is a rare event. this paper presents a case of carcinoma arising in an adenolymphoma of the parotid gland.
prevalence of symptoms of raynaud's phenomenon in general practice. objective--to investigate the prevalence of raynaud's phenomenon in the populations of five general practices. design--two populations studied. a questionnaire was given to all new patients attending five general practices over four weeks, and the same questionnaire was sent by post to a random sample of adults from two of the practices. setting--general practices in inner london, merseyside, and cheshire. subjects--1532 patients who completed questionnaires (1119 who attended the surgeries (response rate unknown) and 413 respondents to the postal survey (response rate 69%)). main outcome measures--response to questionnaire on symptoms of raynaud's phenomenon: patients were regarded as having the disease if they had episodes of blanching of the fingers that were precipitated by cold and accompanied by sensory symptoms (pins and needles or numbness). subsequent interview and clinical appraisal of patients with the disease according to their responses to the questionnaire. results--the prevalence of raynaud's phenomenon was 11% (26/231) and 19% (34/182) respectively in men and women who completed the postal questionnaire and 16% (56/357) and 21% (157/762) respectively in those who completed the questionnaire when attending their general practice. thus the overall rates were slightly higher in women, but there was no effect of age even after adjustment of the rates for practice and method of survey. conclusion--the prevalence of raynaud's phenomenon is high compared with the low number of patients who seek treatment for the disease.
absence of acetylcholine-induced current in epithelial cells from thymus glands and thymomas of myasthenia gravis patients. we investigated the activity of ion channels in epithelial cells from human thymus glands and thymomas kept in short-term cell culture by clamping the membrane potential of the cells at -85 mv and determining the membrane current flowing on application of acetylcholine, glycine, or gamma-aminobutyric acid. in concentrations of up to 10(-3) m, none of the neurotransmitters induced any detectable current. this suggests (1) that there are no acetylcholine receptors (achrs) or other products of the achr gene family having ion-channel properties in the membranes of these epithelial cells, and (2) that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding protein of thymus and thymoma has no achr-like ion-channel property. these results support the hypothesis that the cross-reacting structures that elicit the anti-achr autoimmune response in thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis are antigens having only limited homology with the achr. myasthenia gravis not associated with thymoma might have a different pathogenesis.
inflation pressure requirements during coronary angioplasty. to examine the balloon inflation pressures required for successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca), the maximal inflation pressure required for 477 coronary lesions in 200 consecutive patients was determined retrospectively. when graded balloon inflations just sufficient to achieve full expansion were used, the maximal inflation pressure used was less than or equal to 8 atm in 412 stenoses (86%) and was less than or equal to 10 atm in 463 stenoses (97%). successful ptca was achieved in 98% of lesions with a 3.5% major procedural complication rate. in a second group of 100 patients studied prospectively, the inflation pressure required to achieve full balloon expansion was less than or equal to 8 atm in 214 of 232 stenoses (92%) and less than or equal to 10 atm in 228 stenoses (98%). thus, ptca of coronary stenoses can be achieved with high success rates and low complication rates when graded inflations to pressures just sufficient to achieve full balloon expansion are performed. most coronary stenoses will respond to pressures less than or equal to 8-10 atm.
hemorrhoidectomy during pregnancy: risk or relief? acute hemorrhoidal crisis can occur in the pregnant female. when medical therapy fails to relieve pain, operative intervention may be necessary. the surgeon, however, may be reluctant to operate due to potential complications to the mother and fetus. from july 1983 to july 1989, hemorrhoidectomy was performed in 25 of 12,455 pregnant women (0.2 percent) who delivered in our institution. twenty-two women were in their third trimester, 80 percent were multiparous, and each had a remote history of hemorrhoidal symptoms, including intermittent pain, bleeding, and protrusion. closed hemorrhoidectomy was performed under local anesthesia. the surgery was directed at removing only symptomatic disease, which included three quadrants in 14 patients, two quadrants in seven patients, and one quadrant in four patients. all patients experienced relief of intractable pain the day after surgery, except one patient who required a hemostatic packing during the immediate post-operative period. there were no other maternal or fetal complications. subsequent follow-up for anorectal disease ranged from 6 months to 6 years. six (24 percent) patients required additional hemorrhoid treatment. hemorrhoidectomy in selected pregnant patients is safe in our experience.
are myotonias and periodic paralyses associated with susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia? excised muscles from patients with myotonia or periodic paralysis were subjected to the in vitro contracture test for susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia (mh). in a group of 44 patients, this standard test gave four positive, 10 equivocal and 30 negative results. the results for 27 control muscles from normal subjects were negative. when the test was performed with less than normal concentrations of contracture-triggering substances (caffeine less than or equal to 2 mmol litre-1, less than or equal to 2% halothane), 70% of the muscles from the patients and only 15% of the controls responded with small contractures (less than 0.2 g). these results should not be taken to indicate that the patients have the genetic trait for mh. the positive and equivocal test results, in addition to the slight contractures, may be accounted for by the electrical after-activity in the cases of pure myotonia, and by increased resting myoplasmic [ca2+] in myotonic dystrophy. this shows that the in vitro contracture test lacks specificity.
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm: an indication for the retroperitoneal approach. in three recent cases, one of which is described in this report, we have found the retroperitoneal approach to have the following significant and distinct advantages over the transabdominal repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms: (1) the posterolateral aspect of the aorta characteristically is not significantly involved by the inflammatory process, whereas the anterior aspect is. (2) the duodenum does not need to be dissected away from the aorta and, in fact, is not seen. (3) the left renal vein moves up off the neck of the aneurysm with forward mobilization of the kidney, facilitating proximal control. now that the computerized tomography scan has become the preferred preoperative imaging technique for abdominal aortic aneurysms, the diagnosis of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm can routinely be made before elective operation allowing the retroperitoneal approach to be selected.
the value of intubating and paralyzing patients with suspected head injury in the emergency department. one hundred consecutive trauma patients who underwent planned emergency intubation with muscle paralysis in the ed were studied to investigate the safety of these procedures and to determine their impact on the evaluation of patients with suspected head injury. patients were intubated by either a surgeon (n = 47) or anesthesiologist (n = 53), and paralyzed with either vecuronium (n = 59) or succinylcholine (n = 41). nasal intubation was used in 40 patients, oral in 57, and cricothyroidotomy in three. ninety-four patients with suspected head injuries had a ct scan performed. fifty-five (59%) had a positive scan and 15 required emergent neurosurgical intervention. only two patients had lateral cervical spine roentgenograms before intubation; seven patients were eventually found to have cervical fractures. no patient suffered a neurologic deficit. one patient developed aspiration pneumonia following intubation. the three failed intubations occurred in patients with multiple facial fractures. we conclude that induced paralysis and intubation in the ed is safe, can facilitate the diagnostic workup, and may be a potentially life-saving maneuver in combative trauma patients.
bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fracture of the femoral neck. a prospective randomised trial of cemented thompson and uncemented moore stems. we performed a randomised prospective trial to compare the results of 27 cemented and 26 uncemented bipolar hemiarthroplasties in active patients with displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck. after a mean follow-up of 17 months, significantly more of the uncemented group were experiencing pain in the hip and using more walking aids than the patients in the cemented group. the incidence of postoperative complications, the early mortality rate and the operating time and blood loss were not significantly different. using otherwise identical prostheses the early results were much better with a cemented thompson stem than with an uncemented austin moore stem.
current advances in the diagnosis and treatment of aids: an introduction. significant progress has been made in the diagnosis and treatment of aids. laboratory tests available for assessment of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection include the detection of antibodies to hiv type 1, the direct detection of the virus, the identification of surrogate markers, and the phenotypic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. clinicians have made great strides in the treatment of tumors, opportunistic infections, and complications associated with aids as well as in the treatment of the infection itself. in selected patients, treatment with interferon-alpha has been successful against aids-related kaposi's sarcoma. attempts to treat the leukopenia and anemia of patients with aids by the administration of hematopoietic growth factors have resulted in increased white blood cell counts and a decrease in erythrocyte transfusion requirements. in addition to zidovudine, several antiretroviral agents are undergoing testing, including the nucleoside analogues dideoxycytidine and dideoxyinosine, soluble cd4, and the glycosidase inhibitor n-butyldeoxynojirimycin.
ventricular stroke work loss: validation of a method of quantifying the severity of aortic stenosis and derivation of an orifice formula because aortic stenosis results in the loss of left ventricular stroke work (due to resistance to flow through the valve and turbulence in the aorta), the percentage of stroke work that is lost may reflect the severity of stenosis. this index can be calculated from pressure data alone. the relation between percent stroke work loss and anatomic aortic valve orifice area (measured by planimetry from videotape) was investigated in a pulsatile flow model. thirteen valves were studied (nine human aortic valves obtained at necropsy and four bioprosthetic valves) at stroke volumes of 40 to 100 ml, giving 57 data points. valve area ranged from 0.3 to 2.8 cm2 and mean systolic pressure gradient from 3 to 84 mm hg. percent stroke work loss, calculated as mean systolic pressure gradient divided by mean ventricular systolic pressure x 100%, ranged from 7 to 68%. it was closely related to anatomic orifice area with an inverse exponential relation and was not significantly related to flow (r = -0.15). an orifice formula was derived that predicted anatomic orifice area with a 95% confidence interval of +/- 0.5 cm2 (orifice area [cm2] = 4.82 [2.39 x log percent stroke work loss], r = -0.94, see = 0.029). these results support the clinical use of percent stroke work loss as an easily obtained index of the severity of aortic stenosis.
orbit, skull base, and pharynx: contrast-enhanced fat suppression mr imaging. the high signal intensity of fat on t1-weighted magnetic resonance images has limited the utility of gadopentetate dimeglumine in imaging of the extracranial head and neck. enhancing lesions may be obscured either by proximity to fat or by chemical misregistration artifact. the authors evaluated the role of a gadolinium-enhanced fat suppression imaging technique in the detection of extracranial head and neck abnormalities in 29 patients. these studies were directly compared with conventional pre- and postcontrast t1- and t2-weighted se sequences. in detecting and defining the extent of abnormalities, fat-suppressed images were superior to non-fat-suppressed gadolinium-enhanced t1-weighted images in the majority of cases (22 of 27 [81%]). fat-suppressed images were particularly beneficial in the detection of perineural spread of tumor as well as in defining lesions situated within or adjacent to fat-containing areas such as the base of the skull. these findings demonstrate that fat suppression techniques in combination with gadolinium enhancement are of value in extracranial head and neck imaging and should replace conventional postcontrast t1-weighted se imaging.
treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ('trigger finger') with corticosteroids. a prospective study of the response to local injection. we developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for "trigger finger." fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest, therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide. patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years. results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61% after a single injection. recurrent episodes, after prolonged pain-free intervals, occurred in 27% and were effectively re-treated with injection. in 12% of cases, either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release. local adverse reactions to injection, including pain at the injection site, stiffness, ecchymosis, or atrophy of subcutaneous fat, were self-limited. no episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred. the medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection(s) is effective in nearly 90% of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xxiii. deleterious effects of simulated thrombolysis preceding simulated coronary artery bypass grafting with controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion. this study tests whether simulated thrombolysis before controlled reperfusion (i.e., simulated coronary artery bypass) causes reperfusion injury that obviates the benefits of subsequent controlled reperfusion and results in unnecessary ventricular arrhythmias. fifteen dogs underwent acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. in 10 dogs we simulated thrombolysis after 1 hour of ischemia (delivering 10% to 15% of control flow at 5 ml/min), followed 1 hour later by either normal blood reperfusion at systemic pressure (to simulate percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) in five dogs or regionally controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass in five others to simulate coronary bypass. in five dogs ischemia was prolonged to 2 hours, and the initial reperfusate was blood cardioplegic solution on total vented bypass (to simulate primary coronary bypass). all hearts receiving simulated thrombolysis (100%) after 1 hour of ischemia had reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation. all hearts treated by simulated angioplasty recovered regional contractility (56% of control systolic shortening), whereas there was no (0%) recovery of spontaneous contractility after subsequent blood cardioplegic reperfusion, and only two (40%) dogs had contractile reserve capacity (6% +/- 49%). conversely, surgically controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion without preceding low-flow normal blood reperfusion after 2 hours of ischemia resulted in no ventricular arrhythmias (0%; p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis), 72% +/- 7% (p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis) recovery of regional contractility (ultrasonic crystals), and 114% +/- 11% (p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis) recovery of contractile reserve with calcium chloride stimulation. we conclude that controlled reperfusion (simulating coronary artery bypass) with blood cardioplegic solution produces immediate functional recovery and avoids the ventricular fibrillation that follows simulated thrombolysis despite the need for prolonged ischemic time. preceding controlled reperfusion by normal blood reperfusion (simulated thrombolysis) shortens the ischemic time but nullifies immediate functional recovery possible by simulated coronary bypass and produces unnecessary arrhythmias.
update: prostate cancer. prostate cancer represents a major health-care issue for older men. recent technical advances in imaging, serum markers, and treatment hold great promise. further insight into the natural history and biologic potential of this ubiquitous neoplasm is necessary before we can make rational decisions about early detection and newer treatment approaches.
a prospective study of acute central retinal artery obstruction. the incidence of secondary ocular neovascularization. we conducted a prospective study to determine the incidence of ocular neo-vascularization following acute central retinal artery obstruction. only patients initially evaluated within 7 days of visual loss were eligible. any patient with pre-existing ocular neovascularization or clinical evidence of the ocular ischemic syndrome noted at the initial evaluation was excluded. during the 18-month study, 33 consecutive patients were enrolled. six patients subsequently developed neovascularization of the iris, an incidence of 18.2%. in these six patients, neovascularization of the iris appeared as early as 12 days to as late as 15 weeks following the artery obstructions. five of the six patients (15.2% of the total) later developed neovascular glaucoma. another patient in this series developed neovascularization of the optic disc without neovascularization of the iris, an incidence of 3.0%. only two of the seven patients with ocular neovascularization had ipsilateral hemodynamically significant carotid artery disease as determined by noninvasive carotid artery testing. this study confirms results of previous retrospective studies that the incidence of ocular neovascularization after central retinal artery obstruction is higher than commonly thought. it also shows that, in the majority of cases, carotid artery disease is not responsible for the neovascularization seen after central retinal artery obstruction.
nuclear dna profiles in primary melanomas and their metastases. dna-aneuploid primary melanomas are said to show a greater propensity to metastasize than those without an aneuploid profile. a higher aneuploid rate has also been reported in metastatic melanomas than in primary lesions. the ploidy profile was determined of 26 primary melanomas and their first subsequent secondaries on feulgen-stained sections from routinely processed material using a computerized video image-analysis system. in 18 of 26 cases, both primary and secondary tumor showed similar corresponding dna patterns. these were aneuploid in 13 of 18 of the cases. a hyperdiploid pattern was present in one case in both the primary and its metastasis, and a diploid pattern was seen in four cases. there were only eight cases in which a disparity between the nuclear ploidy profile in the primary and secondary tumor was evident. although the results suggest that ploidy studies are not useful for predicting the metastatic potential of a primary melanoma, the maintenance of similar dna profiles in the metastases in most of these cases was interesting in regard to tumor biology.
tachycardia during reversal of one-kidney, one-clip hypertension in conscious rats. the efferent sympathetic activity of the heart was investigated during reversal of one-kidney, one-clip (1k,1c) hypertension in conscious, freely moving rats using changes in heart rate as an index. one-kidney, one-clip hypertensive rats presented marked tachycardia during the first 8 h after unclipping. mean arterial pressure fell 28% 3 h after unclipping and 37% 8 h after unclipping. in a separate experiment, short term infusion (15 min) of sodium nitroprusside in conscious freely moving rats produced similar tachycardia in hypertensive and sham-operated rats. the present results indicate that the baroreceptor reflex of the heart was operating normally during the prompt reversal of hypertension after unclipping.
a prospective study of sodium-lithium countertransport and hypertension in utah. a 7-year prospective study of a cohort of 1,458 normotensive adults from utah pedigrees, screened from 1980 to 1985, was done to determine whether baseline levels of sodium-lithium countertransport were associated with an increased risk of future hypertension. subsequent new hypertension (n = 39) was ascertained in 1989 from detailed follow-up medical questionnaires (67% response). previous segregation analyses on a subset of these pedigree members who responded (n = 342) using family relationships in addition to countertransport levels have shown statistically inferred major gene segregation of sodium-lithium countertransport levels. in the normotensive adults inferred by segregation analysis to carry the recessive major gene for high sodium-lithium countertransport, new-onset hypertension occurred in 18.8% (3 of 16) compared with 3.7% (12 of 326) in the low sodium-lithium countertransport genotype group (relative risk, 4.6 [1.6, 13.9]; p = 0.03). however, an elevated baseline sodium-lithium countertransport level without genotype information from segregation analysis did not increase the risk of future hypertension in the complete cohort of adult pedigree members (relative risk, 1.02 [0.85, 1.22]). adjustment for other risk factors reduced the relative risk to 0.90 (0.72, 1.11). we conclude that the presence of a major gene for sodium-lithium countertransport or another closely linked gene, rather than the actual level of sodium-lithium countertransport, may increase the risk of hypertension onset. high sodium-lithium countertransport levels do not increase the risk of future hypertension for individuals in whom only polygenic and environmental effects determine sodium-lithium countertransport level.
prolonged intermittent clamping of the portal triad during hepatectomy. from 112 consecutive hepatectomies for malignant tumours performed with intermittent portal triad clamping, we have retrospectively selected the 20 cases in which clamping exceeded 90 min. intermittent portal clamping of prolonged duration was used because of abnormal liver texture in 13 cases (mainly patients who had received intra-arterial chemotherapy) and/or because of technically difficult hepatectomy. the mean(s.d.) duration of intermittent portal clamping was 109(18) min and in two cases it exceeded 140 min (148 and 150 min). there was no postoperative mortality and the rate of postoperative morbidity was 35 per cent. postoperative changes in biochemical liver tests were not major and transient hepatic failure occurred in only one patient following subtotal resection of the liver. we conclude that intermittent portal clamping is a useful manoeuvre in partial hepatectomy when resection is difficult or prolonged, or when the liver parenchyma is abnormal. such clamping may be used for longer than 120 min without major complications.
central corpectomy for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: a consecutive series with long-term follow-up evaluation. since 1984, a consecutive series of patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy has been treated by central corpectomy and strut grafting. this report focuses on 40 cases operated on between 1984 and 1987 and followed from 2 to 5 years. the perioperative complication rate was 47.5%, with a 7.5% incidence of persistent sequelae: severe c-5 radiculopathy in one patient, swallowing dysfunction in one, and hypoglossal nerve palsy in one. no single factor (age, duration of symptoms, or severity of myelopathy) was absolutely predictive of outcome; however, syndromes of short duration had the best likelihood of cure. similar outcomes were associated, individually, with long duration of symptoms, age over 70 years, and severe myelopathy. after factoring a 5% regression of improvement, the long-term cure rate was 57.5% and the failure rate was 15%. myelopathy worsening was not documented.
mobile knee reconstructions after resection of malignant tumors of the distal femur. limb-salvage surgery involving mobile knee reconstructions for malignant tumors about the distal femur is a desirable and achievable goal. with limb salvage, the survival rate does not decrease significantly, and the resulting function is superior to when an amputation plus a prosthesis are used. immediate and delayed morbidity is greater after limb-salvage surgery than after amputation. however, with thorough preoperative planning, use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy as indicated, and an experienced team of surgeons, limb-salvage surgery can provide a mobile knee with excellent function in the vast majority of cases for patients with malignant tumors of the distal femur.
pediatric sinusitis. the role of endoscopic sinus surgery in cystic fibrosis and other forms of sinonasal disease. functional endoscopic sinus surgery has altered the surgical treatment of sinus disease in adults. we report our experience with functional endoscopic sinus surgery in the pediatric population. functional endoscopic sinus surgery was safe and effective and compared favorably with traditional surgery with regard to operative time, blood loss, and parental opinion.
increase of intraplatelet free calcium ion during extracorporeal circulation with a hollow fiber oxygenator: arterial filter and dynamics of platelet thrombosis on oxygenator and filter in a pig model. intraplatelet free calcium (ipfc) ions provide a common pathway for platelet activation leading to thrombosis and embolization. ipfc levels were determined by chlorotetracycline fluorometry during extracorporeal circulation (ecc) with systemic heparin in eight yorkshire pigs (weighing 30-40 kg; 3 control and 5 ecc); the ratio of slow phase organelle calcium sequestration to fast phase platelet-membrane binding is an index of free calcium. during 3 hr of ecc with a hollow fiber oxygenator (hfo) (bentley cm-50) and af (bentley 1025), seven blood samples were collected 5 min before and during ecc. the platelet deposition (cpm/microci) on hfo (pdhfo) was simultaneously measured with in-111-labeled autologous platelets (300-400 microci) and a geiger probe detector at -5, 0, 5, 30, 45, 60, 120, and 180 min. during ecc, ipfc and hfo thrombus increase significantly (p less than 0.05) at 45 min with respect to control ipfc values of 0.4 +/- 0.1, suggesting direct participation of calcium activated platelets in thrombosis on hfo. the decline of ipfc is due to extrusion and sequestration by dense granules, and decline in hfo thrombus is due to embolization. on the other hand, the embolus in the arterial filter was trapped in a linear fashion, with a consistent increase with time of ecc.
anorectal malignant melanoma in sweden. report of 49 patients. clinicopathologic features and prognosis of 49 patients with anal malignant melanoma were investigated in the total swedish population between 1970 and 1984. median age was 71 years (range, 50 to 87 years), and there was a female predominance (31 females, 18 males). the most common symptom at presentation was bleeding. the majority of tumors ranged between 2 and 5 cm in diameter and all invaded at least into the submucosa and/or the lamina propria. at diagnosis, one third of the patients had either regional or distant metastasis with a median survival of 5 months. the remaining patients were surgically treated with curative intent, either by abdominoperineal resection (apr) or local excision. median survival was poor in both treatment groups (apr, 12 months; local excision, 13 months). most patients died with distant metastasis. our results confirm the opinion that apr offers no more curative potential than a more conservative surgical approach. however, tumor sizes were on average smaller in the group treated by local excision. this could indicate that, in the absence of known distant metastasis, radical surgery should be performed, particularly since local recurrences tended to be more common after a local excision.
the lap belt complex: intestinal and lumbar spine injury in children. the "seatbelt syndrome" describes intestinal and spinal injury caused by lap-style automotive restraints. more than 2,600 children were admitted to children's national medical center with blunt injury in 3 years; 395 were involved in a motor vehicle crash. ninety-five of the crash occupants (24%) were known to be wearing safety belts. ten children sustained a "lap belt injury": five with lumbar spine injury, four with combined lumbar spine and intestinal injuries, and one child with intestinal injury. all ten children presented with a characteristic transverse abdominal ecchymosis. the ct scan was unreliable in evaluation of both spinal and intestinal injury. lateral radiographs were required for definitive diagnosis in eight of nine children with lumbar spinal injury. ct scan was clearly diagnostic in only one of five children with intestinal injury. children wearing lap belts are at risk of a "lap belt complex." lateral spine x-rays, peritoneal lavage, and early laparotomy are recommended to establish an accurate diagnosis and to decrease morbidity.
the agent of bacillary angiomatosis. an approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens background. bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts. the agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with warthin-starry staining, but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified. this bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease. methods. in attempting to identify this organism, we used the polymerase chain reaction. we used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16s ribosomal rna genes of eubacteria to amplify 16s ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis. the dna sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms. normal tissues were studied in parallel. results. tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16s gene sequence. a sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions. no related 16s gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues. these 16s sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism, most closely related to rochalimaea quintana. conclusions. the cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism, closely related to r. quintana. this method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause.
testicular carcinoma in patients positive and at risk for human immunodeficiency virus. patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are at increased risk for certain malignancies. because acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and testicular cancer affect primarily young men, the potential complications that acquired immunodeficiency syndrome might impose raise significant concern. to address this question we performed a retrospective review of all cases of testicular cancer during an 11-year period. of 140 patients 6 had human immunodeficiency virus infection and 7 were from human immunodeficiency virus risk groups. all cases were either stage i or ii disease with seminoma in 8, teratocarcinoma in 3, embryonal cell carcinoma in 1 and teratoma in 1. the clinical presentations of these patients were comparable to those of patients without human immunodeficiency virus risk factors. the majority of the patients received standard therapy, including orchiectomy followed by lymphadenectomy, radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on stage and pathological subtype. patients tolerated therapy well with only 1 course of radiation therapy complicated by pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. all patients achieved complete remission and none died of testicular cancer. since treatment of these patients may worsen the immunosuppression, surveillance is recommended after orchiectomy for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients with stage i disease. however, the majority of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection should receive standard therapy.
long-term treatment of crohn's disease with cyclosporine: the effect of a very low dose on maintenance of remission. low-dose oral cyclosporine was used to maintain remission in patients with crohn's disease. in seven patients, cyclosporine was used as a steroid-sparing agent; in 14 it was given for refractory active disease as an adjunct to conventional treatment, and then continued as maintenance treatment. cyclosporine was given at an initial dose of 5 mg/kg reduced by 1 mg/kg at 2-month intervals until a maintenance dose of 2 mg/kg was reached. of the seven patients in whom cyclosporine was used as a steroid-sparing agent, six had a relapse. remission was achieved in seven of the refractory active group, but cyclosporine was withdrawn because of side effects in six of the patients in this group. of the seven patients who had achieved remission, six subsequently had a relapse. therefore, 12 of 14 patients (86%) in remission had a relapse despite cyclosporine maintenance. ten of these (83%) had a relapse at a cyclosporine dose of 2 or 3 mg/kg. cyclosporine levels at relapse (median, 74 ng/ml) were lower than the mean levels over the first 6 weeks of treatment (median, 130 ng/ml; p = 0.02). our data do not support the use of cyclosporine to maintain remission in crohn's disease.
salvage of branch vessels during bifurcation lesion angioplasty: acute and long-term follow-up. to evaluate angiographic success, frequency of branch vessel loss and salvage, and long-term outcome, we studied the early and late outcomes of 56 consecutive patients who underwent ptca of bifurcation lesions, which involved the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary artery, with stenoses greater than 70% in both the parent and an involved branch vessel. in 35 patients (63%), the ptca strategy was attempted dilation of both the main vessel and the involved branch vessels using predominantly a double-wire, sequential balloon technique; in 21 (27%) the ptca attempt was confined to the main vessel alone. transient angiographic occlusion of the branch vessel occurred in 32% of patients in whom dilation of both vessels was attempted, and in 38% in whom the main vessel alone was dilated (p = ns); 91% of the occluded branch vessels were the salvaged when sequential angioplasty of both vessels had been initially planned, compared to only 38% when the initial strategy had been dilation of the main vessel alone (p less than .05). predischarge exercise testing showed residual ischemia in 6% of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated, versus 37% in those in whom dilatation was confined to the main vessels (p less than .01). clinical restenosis, defined as late (greater than 6 weeks) recurrence of angina or a positive exercise test, occurred in 42% of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated. thus although bifurcation lesion angioplasty frequently results in transient branch vessel loss, these branches can usually be salvaged using a double-wire technique but tend to have a higher late restenosis than conventional single vessel ptca.
calcium and blood pressure. an epidemiologic perspective. we reviewed the research literature on the epidemiologic relationship between blood pressure levels and calcium, with an emphasis on dietary intake. a conceptual framework for causal inference is summarized; then the designs and results of observational and intervention studies are presented. of 25 reports of observational studies relating intake of calcium or calcium-rich foods to blood pressure, the majority found some evidence of an inverse association. however, many analyses did not support this relationship, and only two studies have confirmed the inverse association with a prospective design. nineteen randomized controlled clinical trials of calcium supplementation have been reported, excluding those exclusively in pregnant women. eleven of these showed no significant effects on blood pressure; in two trials, both systolic and diastolic pressure were significantly reduced; and in the remainder results were equivocal. pooled analyses yielded estimates of a small (1.8 mm hg), significant reduction in systolic blood pressure, but no effect on diastolic pressure. epidemiologic relationships with serum and urinary calcium, and the possible mechanisms of these effects, are also discussed. we conclude that the evidence from studies in humans is suggestive, but not conclusive, regarding a role for calcium in hypertension. recommendations for further epidemiologic studies are presented.
colposcopic survey of papanicolaou test-negative cases with hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis. a colposcopic survey was performed in 269 consecutive women with negative cytology showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis. a colposcopy-guided biopsy specimen of cervical abnormalities was taken in 88 cases, and human papillomavirus infection (hpv) was detected histologically in 25 cases. no cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) was detected. the detection rate of hpv was not significantly different from that observed in a consecutive series of 1073 papanicolaou test-negative subjects self-referred for colposcopy. colposcopic screening of subjects showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis with otherwise negative smears is not recommended because it does not allow detection of cytologically false-negative cin.
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2. interleukin-2 (il-2) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours. this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane (tx) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event. recombinant human il-2, 10(5) u (n = 7), 10(6) u (n = 9), or vehicle (n = 8) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour. at 6 hours edema, as measured by increase in wet to dry weight (w/d) ratio, was present in the heart, liver, and kidney, with 10(5) u il-2 and in the lung, heart, liver and kidney, with 10(6) u il-2, relative to values with vehicle-infused controls (all p less than 0.05). with a 1-hour infusion of 10(6) u il-2, there was an increase in plasma thromboxane (tx)b2 level to 1290 +/- 245 pg/ml, higher than 481 +/- 93 pg/ml in control rats (p less than 0.05); lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte (pmn) sequestration of 53 +/- 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields (hpf) relative to 23 +/- 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls (p less than 0.05); and increased bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) fluid protein concentration of 1970 +/- 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls (p less than 0.05). when 10(6) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus (n = 9), edema was not demonstrated, plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls, there was no leukosequestration, and bal protein levels were normal. these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema, increased plasma txb2, sequestration of pmns, and microvascular permeability. these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment.
herpes simplex keratitis in renal transplant patients. five out of 430 patients (1.16%) undergoing kidney transplantation developed an atypical clinical picture of herpetic dendritic keratitis within four weeks after surgery. it was manifested by multiple dendrites, located mainly in the corneal periphery or the limbus, developing in relatively uninflamed eyes. the response to acyclovir therapy was prolonged and took at least three weeks. additionally, subepithelial infiltrates with ultimate scarring developed in all patients. disciform keratopathy was not found. this clinical course is ascribed to the patients' immunosuppressed state.
a multifocal schwannoma of the masseteric nerve causing hemicrania. a case is reported of schwannoma of the right masseteric nerve, invading the pterygopalatine fossa and the parapharyngeal space through the mandibular notch in a 61-year-old woman. the tumor in this case was composed of four various-sized interconnected nodules, simulating a string of beads. the tumor was the cause of the patient's chronic hemicrania, as confirmed by the relief from and disappearance of head pain after surgical removal of the tumor. the most important aspects of this case are the anatomic site of the schwannoma and its uncommon clinicopathologic manifestations; this tumor originated from the masseteric nerve and is the first case reported to straddle the mandibular notch.
functional significance of myocardial perfusion defects induced by dipyridamole using thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography and two-dimensional echocardiography. the mechanisms responsible for inhomogeneous myocardial blood flow after oral administration of a large dose (300 mg) of dipyridamole were assessed in 27 patients with serial thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) and simultaneous 2-dimensional echocardiograms. myocardial tomographic images were obtained 50 minutes and 3 to 4 hours after administration of dipyridamole. two-dimensional echocardiograms were recorded at baseline and then every 15 minutes for 60 minutes. dipyridamole caused only a mild reduction in blood pressure (from 129 +/- 18 to 126 +/- 16 mm hg) and a mild increase in heart rate (from 69 +/- 15 to 73 +/- 4 beats/min). sixteen patients had perfusion defects after dipyridamole by spect, which underwent partial or total filling-in. fourteen of these patients (87.5%) had either a new abnormality or further deterioration of a preexisting wall motion abnormality by 2-dimensional echocardiography, and thus were considered to have developed transient ischemia during dipyridamole administration. ten of 11 patients (91%) with normal perfusion or fixed defects by spect had no further deterioration in wall motion after oral dipyridamole, and were thus considered to have no evidence of myocardial ischemia. in conclusion, most patients with transient thallium-201 defects after dipyridamole develop transient worsening of resting wall motion by 2-dimensional echocardiography, suggestive of true myocardial ischemia. because myocardial oxygen demand, as indicated by the heart rate-blood pressure product, did not change significantly, the mechanism of myocardial ischemia in these patients is likely to be diminished regional blood flow related to a "subendocardial steal" induced by dipyridamole.
delivery dependence of early proximal bicarbonate reabsorption in the rat in respiratory acidosis and alkalosis. in the intact rat kidney, bicarbonate reabsorption in the early proximal tubule (ep) is strongly dependent on delivery. independent of delivery, metabolic acidosis stimulates ep bicarbonate reabsorption. in this study, we investigated whether systemic ph changes induced by acute or chronic respiratory acid-base disorders also affect ep hco3- reabsorption, independent of delivery (flhco3, filtered load of bicarbonate). hypercapnia was induced in rats acutely (1-3 h) and chronically (4-5 d) by increasing inspired pco2. hypocapnia was induced acutely (1-3 h) by mechanical hyperventilation, and chronically (4-5 d) using hypoxemia to stimulate ventilation. when compared with normocapneic rats with similar flhco3, no stimulation of ep or overall proximal hco3 reabsorption was found with either acute hypercapnia (paco2 = 74 mmhg, ph = 7.23) or chronic hypercapnia (paco2 = 84 mmhg, ph = 7.31). acute hypocapnia (paco2 = 29 mmhg, ph = 7.56) did not suppress ep or overall hco3 reabsorption. chronic hypocapnia (paco2 = 26 mmhg, ph = 7.54) reduced proximal hco3 reabsorption, but this effect was reversed when flhco3 was increased to levels comparable to euvolemic normocapneic rats. thus, when delivery is accounted for, we could find no additional stimulation of proximal bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory acidosis and, except at low delivery rates, no reduction in bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory alkalosis.
migraine and vertebrobasilar ischemia. i studied 9 patients with migraine and posterior circulation ischemia. inclusion criteria were (1) brainstem or cerebellar infarcts or transient ischemic attacks, (2) satisfactory vertebrobasilar angiograms, and (3) migraine. excluded were patients with only occipital lobe ischemia, known arteriosclerosis, or other nonmigrainous vascular disease. two women and 7 men, ages 6 to 58 years (mean, 34.7), had transient attacks only (2), single strokes (4), single stroke followed by attacks (1), or multiple strokes (2). five had antecedent classic, 2 common migraine, and classic migraine began only after the initial ischemic event in the other two. the 7 stroke patients all had ct- or mri-documented brainstem (4) or cerebellar (6) infarcts. angiography was normal (3) or demonstrated basilar artery (ba) narrowing (2) or occlusion (4), or branch occlusion (1). in 3 patients the initially occluded ba later reopened. at follow-up (average 4.3 years, range 1 to 9 years), 5 were normal and 4 had important clinical deficits. i conclude that (1) "basilar migraine" is not always benign; it affects both sexes and a wide age range; (2) the pattern of headaches, attacks, and strokes varies; (3) migraine may appear only after ischemia; (4) some patients have ba occlusion or diffuse narrowing; and (5) ba occlusion can be temporary.
natural evolution of cardiac function, cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model. serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in c3h/he mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis. postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 (20.7 +/- 5.5%, n = 6), 20 (18.6 +/- 15.2%, n = 5), 30 (18.5 +/- 7.7%, n = 5) and 150 (30.0 +/- 18.7, n = 6) (p less than 0.001) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice (63.3 +/- 3.1%, n = 6). in the same group of animals, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 (in six of six mice) and only slight accumulation on day 20 (in one of five mice). in the chronic stage, two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake. the antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio (expressed as mean count density [mean counts/pixel of the region] ratio) increased greatly on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice) but not subsequently. biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice) but not on days 20, 30 and 150. pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10. on day 20, there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin. on days 30 and 150, myocardial fibrosis increased.
native valve endocarditis due to pseudallescheria boydii in a patient with aids: case report and review. a 53-year-old man with aids developed mitral valve endocarditis due to infection with the fungus pseudallescheria boydii. a limited number of cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by this organism have been described. we report a unique case of pseudallescheria infection of a native valve and describe this disease in a patient with aids.
lack of gene deletion for complement c4a deficiency in japanese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. the frequency of c4a gene deletion was studied in japanese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and was compared with healthy controls. dna preparations were extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes from 59 patients with sle and from 166 healthy persons, and digested by restriction enzymes. they were hybridized with c4 complementary dna by the southern blotting method and the deletion of c4a gene was judged from restriction fragment length polymorphism. at the same time phenotypic c4a deficiency (c4aq0) was measured. our results showed that the frequency of phenotypic c4a deficiency was 44.1% in japanese patients with sle and this value was comparable with that (43.2%) in caucasian patients. on the other hand the deletion of c4a gene was not found in japanese patients with sle (0%), or in healthy controls (0.6%). our results indicate that c4aq0 may contribute to the pathogenesis of sle beyond the ethnical differences but japanese patients with sle have a different genetic background from caucasian patients with the c4a gene deleted.
antigen related to cell proliferation in malignant gliomas recognized by a human monoclonal antibody. a human monoclonal antibody (cln-igg) was produced from a human-human hybridoma derived from lymphocytes of a patient with cervical carcinoma. the reactivities of this antibody with various human glioma tissues and cultured glioma cells and the characterization of the antigen recognized by cln-igg on malignant glioma cells were analyzed and reported. cln-igg reacted with various human glioma cells and glioma tissues, especially glioblastoma, but did not react with normal brain tissues or fetal brain tissues. a large amount of antigen recognized by cln-igg was expressed on cell membranes of undifferentiated glioma cells and of glioma cells at the g2/m tumor growth phase in cycling cells. antigen recognized by cln-igg was detected in only one of seven samples of cyst fluid, and was not detected in 27 serum samples or 18 samples of cerebrospinal fluid from glioma patients. cln-igg exhibited antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity against u-25 1 mg glioma cells and primary cultured cells of glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas. these data suggest that the antigen recognized by cln-igg might be related to cell proliferation in malignant gliomas. thus, cln-igg might be useful for immunotherapy or immunoimaging of malignant gliomas.
rett syndrome: cerebellar pathology. the cerebellar pathology at autopsy of 5 patients with rett syndrome is described. the patients ranged in age from 7-30 years. all had markedly reduced brain weights with proportionately small cerebella. microscopic examination revealed loss of purkinje cells, atrophy, astrocytic gliosis of the molecular and granular cell layers, and gliosis and loss of myelin in the white matter. cortical atrophy occurred focally along the folia and was often more marked in the tips of the folia. the 2 oldest patients had been treated with phenytoin which may have contributed to the morphologic changes. atrophy and gliosis increased with age or in patients without phenytoin treatment; the youngest patient demonstrated only minor microscopic changes. in addition to the generalized alterations, 1 patient had several adjacent folia with severe atrophy. the results indicate that cerebellar changes in rett syndrome consist of general hypoplasia with the addition of atrophy beginning in childhood and progressing over many years.
positive and negative regulation of proliferation and differentiation in tracheobronchial epithelial cells. the lung (in particular the bronchial epithelium) is a major site for tumor formation in humans. environmental factors in conjunction with genetic factors are important determinants in this disease. the acquisition of defects in the control of proliferation and differentiation appears to constitute crucial steps in the transition of a normal to a neoplastic cell. several factors have been identified that control positively or negatively the proliferation and differentiation of tracheobronchial epithelial cells. these factors include egf/tgf alpha, tgf beta, insulin/igfi, kgf, certain cytokines, retinoids, and activators of protein kinase c. studies with neoplastic cells have identified several protooncogenes and tumor suppressor genes whose gene products are involved in the regulation of cell growth of normal tracheobronchial epithelial cells, and when mutated, lost, or activated, bring about a neoplastic phenotype. future studies on the precise function of these genes will help to elucidate the mechanisms by which proliferation and differentiation in normal tracheobronchial epithelial cells are regulated and help to understand the molecular changes involved in diseases such as cancer.
complications in hyperthermia treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. of 435 patients treated with local hyperthermia to the prostate 27 had 29 complications, for an over-all complication rate of 6.6%. urinary tract infections (7 cases), hematuria (6), and epididymitis (2) accounted for roughly half of the complications and could be attributed to the insertion of a catheter rather than the treatment itself but this remains to be proved. most of the complications occurred within the first 3 treatment sessions. despite the complication, 9 patients continued and completed the treatment course. mean age of the study group was 73 +/- 8.3 years. given the age of these patients, high incidence of accompanying diseases and low rate of complications, local hyperthermia should be considered a viable low risk treatment option in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia.
risk of dementia in first-degree relatives of patients with alzheimer's disease and related disorders. first-degree relatives of patients with alzheimer's disease (ad) are at greater risk for dementia when compared with the relatives of their healthy peers, but not when compared with the relatives of patients with parkinson's disease. this may indicate that the risk of dementia in these relatives is not specific to ad or that these studies are biased. we obtained a family history and vital status information on each first-degree relative of patients attending a clinic and in a group of recruited healthy elderly subjects. patients formed two groups: probable ad and other forms of dementia or cognitive disorders without dementia. the odds of dementia in first-degree relatives did not differ between patient groups. the odds of dementia in relatives of patients with probable ad or other forms of dementia was six times that in the relatives of the healthy elderly subjects. the cumulative incidence of dementia increased with age in the first-degree relatives of all subjects. approximately 50% of the first-degree relatives of patients with ad were demented by age 91 years, but almost the same number of the other patient group's relatives were demented as well. that figure was never reached in the healthy elderly subject's relatives. because the risk of dementia in first-degree relatives of patients with ad was similar to that for patients with other disorders, we cannot exclude the possibility that this is the result of selection and information biases. our investigation implies that the increased risk of dementia may not be specific to relatives of patients with ad; the risk may also be increased in first-degree relatives of patients with other neurologic disorders.
spontaneous and steroid-induced recurrence of endometriosis after suppression by a gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist in the rat. recurrent endometriosis in women is difficult to study because of the ethical consideration of performing repeated surgeries. previously in the rat model we described therapeutic regression of endometriosis with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist antide. presently we report the spontaneous and steroid-induced recurrence of endometriosis after withdrawal from antide therapy. rats with endometriosis received antide or vehicle on days 0 (proestrus), 3, 6, and 9 and were killed on days 0, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 42 (n = 4 antide-treated and 4 vehicle-treated rats killed per day). additional antide-treated rats (n = 4 per treatment) received estrogen, progesterone, both estrogen and progesterone, cholesterol, and no steroid on day 9 and were killed on day 12. antide significantly suppressed endometriotic implant size on days 12, 18, and 24. however, implant size spontaneously returned to pretreatment values by day 30. administration of steroids on day 9 elicited regrowth of antide-suppressed endometriosis (estrogen plus progesterone greater than estrogen, progesterone, or cholesterol greater than no steroid) by day 12. this resilience of endometriosis offers an explanation for treatment failure and recurrence of the disease in women.
prothymosin alpha antisense oligomers inhibit myeloma cell division. the function of prothymosin alpha has been investigated by using four different antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotides directed at selected regions of its mrna. in every case, when synchronized human myeloma cells were released from stationary phase by incubation in fresh medium containing antisense oligomers, cell division was prevented or inhibited; sense oligomers and random antisense oligomers had no effect. a detailed analysis of synchronized cell populations indicated that sense-treated and untreated cells divided approximately 17 hr after growth initiation, whereas cells incubated with antisense oligomer 183, a 16-mer targeted 5 bases downstream of the initiation codon, entered mitosis approximately one cell division late. the failure to divide correlated directly with a deficit in prothymosin alpha and with the continued presence of intact intracellular antisense oligomers over a period of at least 24 hr. because antisense oligomers had no effect either on the timing of the induction of prothymosin alpha mrna upon growth stimulation or on mrna levels seen throughout the cell cycle, we concluded that antisense dna caused specific hybrid arrest of translation. our data suggest that prothymosin alpha is required for cell division. however, there is no evidence that prothymosin alpha directly regulates mitosis.
the effect of improved cementing techniques on component loosening in total hip replacement. an 11-year radiographic review. improved cementing techniques have been shown to decrease the rate of aseptic loosening of femoral components of cemented total hip replacements at five to seven years. we now report our results in 105 hips in 93 patients at 10 to 12.7 years (mean 11.2). the improved techniques included use of a medullary plug, a cement gun, a doughy mix of simplex p and a collared stem of chrome cobalt. only three femoral components had definitely loosened, none were probably loose and 24 were graded as possibly loose. in contrast, the incidence of radiographic loosening on the acetabular side was 42%. improved cementing techniques have produced a marked reduction in the rate of aseptic loosening of the femoral component, but the incidence of acetabular loosening is unchanged.
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap. part iii. a retrospective study. a retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed. the following were analyzed: age at time of operation, gender, physical status, diagnostic protocol, length of operation (length of total surgery) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap, length of postoperative hospital stay, length of total hospital stay, length of follow-up, speech results, complications, patient care, and medication. the result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age. the mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days, postoperative complications were minimal, and speech results were generally good.
duodenal stricture: a complication of chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis. over the past 10 years, one of us (m.c.a.) has treated 92 patients who required operation for symptoms associated with alcohol-induced chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis. four of these patients had duodenal obstruction. all four had had lateral pancreaticojejunostomy to relieve pancreatic ductal obstruction and associated chronic abdominal pain; three of the four also required biliary diversion for stenosis of the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct. each duodenal stricture required reoperation and gastrojejunostomy to bypass the site of obstruction. a review of the english language literature revealed that duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis is uncommon, only 58 previous cases having been reported. all of those patients had pancreatic ductal obstruction, and more than half had concomitant distal biliary stenosis. two thirds of the duodenal obstructions were treated by gastroenterostomy, and one third were resected. duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic pancreatitis and biliary stricture appears to reflect an advanced form of the disease. combined lateral pancreaticojejunostomy and biliary diversion has emerged as the preferred surgical procedure for this problem. careful preoperative assessment for evidence of duodenal stenosis also is needed in this group of patients, and gastroenterostomy is indicated in appropriate cases.
spinal anaesthesia in day-care surgery with a 26-gauge needle. we studied 106 day-care surgical patients (52 male) aged 18-70 yr (mean 49.6 yr) who received spinal anaesthesia with a 26-gauge spinal needle. the incidence of headache, back pain and patient acceptability were investigated after operation using a questionnaire. the incidence of postspinal headache was 7.5%, and 11.3% of patients developed back pain. one patient remained in hospital because of hypotension and dizziness. there were no major complications and patient acceptability was almost 100%. we conclude that spinal anaesthesia for day-care surgery is easy to perform and cost effective.
reliability of death certificate diagnoses. consistency between death certificates and clinical records from 5 general hospitals in kuwait was studied for 470 deaths with the following underlying or associated causes: hypertensive (hyp), ischaemic heart diseases (ihd), cerebrovascular diseases (cvd) and diabetes mellitus (dm). direct causes were not considered since they are of little interest analytically. only deaths with definite or most probable ascertainment were included. one cardiologist, who was provided with the who criteria and relevant documents on death certification, independently reviewed the records. to test the reviewer's bias and the reliability of his judgement, an adjudication process was effected by having one senior cardiologist re-review a random subsample of 140 records. the two reviewers showed good agreement. specific diagnoses criteria for deciding the underlying cause of death in multiple morbid conditions by the reviewer were followed. due to possible reviewer bias, we aimed at measuring the difference between initial certifiers and the reviewer rather than measuring the diagnostic accuracy of initial certifiers in reference to the reviewer. the agreement index kappa showed poor agreement between original and revised certificates. the original certificates under-estimated cvd as an underlying cause of death by 69.2%, dm by 60%, ihd by 33.5% and hyp by 31.8% in our sample. associated causes were also consistently under-estimated by initial certifiers as compared with the reviewer. this bias calls for basing mortality statistics in kuwait on hospital death committees' reports rather than on initial certifier death certificates, use of multiple-causes of death instead of one underlying cause and adequate training of the medical profession on the value and process of death certification.
temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury. temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury are reported. in one patient, longitudinal fractures occurred in both temporal bones, and extended to the middle ear bilaterally. bleeding was seen in the tympanic cavity, mastoid air cells, internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal. bleeding was observed in the scala tympani, cochlear aqueduct and endolymphatic sac, but there were no fractures. in the other patient, bleeding was seen in the internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal. in the right ear, endolymphatic hydrops was observed in all turns of the cochlea.
pancreaticobiliary ductal union. the main pancreatic duct and the common bile duct open into the second part of the duodenum alone or after joining as a common channel. a common channel of greater than 15 mm (an anomalous pancreaticobiliary duct) is associated with congenital cystic dilatation of the common bile duct and carcinoma of the gall bladder. even a long common channel (greater than or equal to 8 mm) is associated with a higher frequency of carcinoma of the gall bladder. gall stones smaller than the common channel and a long common channel predispose to gall stone induced acute pancreatitis. separate openings for the two ductal systems predisposes to development of gall stones and alcohol induced chronic pancreatitis. the role of ductal union has also been investigated in primary sclerosing cholangitis and biliary atresia.
24-hour intragastric acidity and plasma gastrin after omeprazole treatment and after proximal gastric vagotomy in duodenal ulcer patients the relationship between suppressed gastric acidity and the increase in plasma gastrin levels after pharmacological and surgical treatment of peptic ulcer disease were compared in this study. eight patients with chronic duodenal ulcer and referred for proximal gastric vagotomy were studied. 24-hour intragastric acidity and plasma gastrin levels were investigated in the same patients on three consecutive occasions: preentry without any treatment; after 4 weeks of administration of 20 mg of omeprazole daily, and 4-6 months after proximal gastric vagotomy. intragastric acidity was slightly more reduced by omeprazole (94%) than after proximal gastric vagotomy (78%), with no difference found during the day or night with either. plasma gastrin levels increased slightly more after proximal gastric vagotomy [284% (median, 2120 pmol.h/l; range, 733-2831 pmol.h/l)] than after omeprazole administration [186% (median, 1586 pmol.h/l; range, 495-2573 pmol.h/l)]. there is strong evidence that the increased plasma gastrin concentration following omeprazole treatment is caused by the reduced intragastric acidity. the slight increase in plasma gastrin concentration following proximal gastric vagotomy despite a lesser reduction in intragastric acidity may be the result of additional effects on gastrin release by the vagotomy. both treatments resulted in a modest increase in plasma levels of gastrin that were far below the gastrin levels observed in achlorhydric patients, e.g., patients with pernicious anemia.
patch aortotomy for aortic valve replacement after previous coronary artery bypass grafting. exposure for aortic valve operations after previous coronary artery bypass grafting may be technically difficult owing to the presence of patent vein grafts on the proximal aorta. a patch or "island" aortotomy technique that allows excellent exposure of the aortic valve is presented here. in select patients this approach may facilitate cardioplegia administration.
colonic lipomas: outcome of endoscopic removal. colonic lipomas are benign adipose tumors which are usually submucosal. with the increase in the number of endoscopic procedures being performed, these tumors are often detected incidentally at colonoscopy. although the risks of removing these tumors have been recognized, numerous reports have documented safe removal by snare electrocautery. we have reviewed the clinical outcome and the endoscopic and histopathologic features of seven lipomas that were endoscopically removed over a 5-year period. four patients recovered uneventfully, while three patients (42.8%) developed colonic perforation after the polypectomy. in the latter group, the lipomas were significantly larger than they were in the patients who did not develop colonic perforation (1.9 +/- 0.4 and 4.2 +/- 0.7 cm, respectively; p = 0.048). furthermore, the polypectomy specimens from those patients who developed perforation all contained significant muscularis propria. lipomatous polyps that are identified at endoscopy to be greater than or equal to 2 cm in diameter and to have a limited pedicle are at the greatest risk for endoscopic perforation.
a prospective study of magnetic resonance imaging in lymphoma staging. in this prospective study, magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was compared with computed tomography (ct) in patients with non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhdl), and with ct and laparotomy in patients with hodgkin's disease (hd). among 31 patients with nhdl, there was agreement between mri and ct findings in 21 patients; mri findings were positive and ct findings were negative in 8 patients; and mri findings were negative and ct findings were positive in 2 patients. the false-negative findings of mri included a laparotomy-proven mesenteric mass and a 6.6-cm lesion in the spleen, both shown by ct. in 13 evaluable patients with hd, there was agreement between mri and laparotomy findings in 8 patients; mri findings were positive and laparotomy findings were negative in 4 patients; and mri findings were negative and laparotomy findings were positive in 1 patient. ct findings agreed with laparotomy findings in nine patients; ct findings were positive and laparotomy findings were negative in one patient: and ct findings were negative and laparotomy findings were positive in three patients. this suggested that mri, although more sensitive than ct, was less specific with more false-positive findings. the spin-lattice relaxation time (t1) for the spleen was generally higher in patients with hd who had pathologically confirmed splenic involvement, and tended to increase with increasing spleen weight. this study was performed on a prototype 0.15 tesla (technicare inc., solon, oh) resistive unit at a time when methods and reporting for mri were still being developed. although mri appears to have fewer false-negative findings than ct in evaluating the abdomen of lymphoma patients, the lack of a gastrointestinal contrast agent and specificity of t1 elevations in the spleen would not suggest that mri could replace ct or laparotomy as a staging technique.
medroxyprogesterone acetate lowers plasma corticotropin and cortisol but does not suppress anterior pituitary responsiveness to human corticotropin releasing factor. the endocrine action of medroxyprogesterone acetate (mpa) has been claimed to be of a glucocorticoid-like nature. upon clinical observation, mpa has been shown to improve life quality and overall well-being in patients with advanced breast cancer, renal carcinoma, prostatic carcinoma, and uterine adenocarcinoma. the authors have evaluated mpa endocrine action by the administration of human corticotropin releasing factor (hcrf) in a 90-minute assay in 15 patients with advanced breast cancer or renal cell carcinoma both, before the initiation of oral high-dose mpa treatment (1000 mg mpa) as well as after at least 10 days of therapy. the curves for corticotropin, beta-endorphin, and cortisol responses to hcrf of tumor patients who were tested before the initiation of mpa treatment were parallel to the curves of a healthy control group of probands tested under equal conditions, although at significantly higher respective hormone levels. in patients with malignant disorders assayed after mpa administration, both basal and peak hormone levels were found to be comparable with values obtained in healthy controls. in conclusion, mpa appeared to act at a suprapituitary level since pituitary responsiveness to hcrf was preserved under mpa treatment. moreover, it appeared that mpa brought the hormonal stress state found in patients with malignant tumors back to normal.
complete follow-up and evaluation of a skin cancer screening in connecticut. on may 21, 1988, 251 persons were screened for skin cancer in new haven, connecticut. a total body skin examination was performed on 98% of the participants. on the basis of follow-up of 93% of persons with positive screens for basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or bowen's disease, positive predictive values were 43% for basal cell carcinoma, 14% for squamous cell carcinoma, and 50% for bowen's disease. in the group with atypical nevi, a person with two or more clinically atypical nevi was 16 times more likely to have histologic confirmation than a person with a single clinically atypical nevus (p = 0.003). eighty persons were screened by both a dermatologist and a dermatology nurse; the crude agreement rate for actinic keratoses was 0.62; for atypical nevi, 0.53; and for bcc, 0.88. both nurses and physicians overdiagnosed in the screening setting, the nurses more so than the physicians. of the 128 persons screened who were advised to seek medical follow-up, 16 did not do so despite several reminders; their reasons are discussed.
clinical prognostic factors in patients with posterior uveal malignant melanoma. the authors evaluated the prognostic value of clinically assessed variables for predicting length of survival until death from metastatic disease in 237 patient with a primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma. using multivariate cox proportional hazards modeling, the authors identified the largest linear basal tumor diameter (mm), estimated by indirect ophthalmoscopy and fundus drawing, the location of the anterior margin of the tumor relative to the ocular equator and ora serrata, and the age of the patient at the time of treatment as the best combination of the clinically assessed variables for predicting survival. for each patient in this group, the authors computed a prognostic index based on the best multivariate cox model. they showed that patients with low, intermediate, and high values of prognostic index had low, intermediate, and high melanoma-related mortality rates, respectively, during the first 5 to 8 posttreatment years. these results suggest that: (1) clinically assessed variables evaluated according to a standardized protocol are useful for predicting the survival of treated patients with posterior uveal melanoma and (2) ophthalmologists who assess potential clinical prognostic variables consistently may identify subgroups of patients with comparable mortality risk on the basis of noninvasive testing.
effect of tamoxifen on serum insulinlike growth factor i levels in stage i breast cancer patients. insulinlike growth factor i (igf-i) has been shown to be a potent mitogen for breast cancer cells in vitro, and igf-i receptors have been demonstrated on human primary breast neoplasms. in a randomized, placebo-controlled study, we document that administration of the antiestrogen tamoxifen to patients with breast cancer was associated with a statistically significant (p = .002) reduction in the serum level of igf-i. the mean igf-i level was 1.4 u/ml in the placebo-treated group and 0.9 u/ml in the tamoxifen-treated group. because serum igf-i level is growth hormone (gh) dependent and because data suggest that the pubertal surge in gh and igf-i levels is sex steroid dependent, we speculate that the mechanism underlying our observation may involve blockade by tamoxifen of estrogen action in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. we conclude that tamoxifen treatment reduces igf-i levels and that this reduction may contribute to the therapeutic effect of the drug.
extracellular matrix gene expression increases preferentially in rat lipocytes and sinusoidal endothelial cells during hepatic fibrosis in vivo. whether parenchymal or nonparenchymal liver cells play a predominant role in the pathophysiology of hepatic fibrosis has not been firmly established in vivo. we have addressed this question by quantitating the relative abundance of specific mrnas for collagen types i, iii, and iv, and laminin in purified populations of hepatocytes, sinusoidal endothelial cells, and lipocytes from normal and fibrotic rat liver. in normal liver, type i collagen gene expression was minimal in all cell types; mrna for types iii and iv collagen were apparent in endothelial cells and lipocytes, but not in hepatocytes. laminin mrna was present in all cell types. induction of fibrogenesis by either bile duct ligation or carbon tetrachloride administration was associated with a substantial increase in mrna for types i and iii collagen in nonparenchymal cells. lipocytes from fibrotic animals exhibited a greater than 30-fold increase in type i collagen mrna relative to normal lipocytes, and greater than 40-fold relative to hepatocytes. type iii collagen mrna reached 5 times that in normal lipocytes and greater than 120 times that in hepatocytes. endothelial cells exhibited an isolated increase in type i collagen mrna, reaching five times that in normal liver. type iv collagen and laminin gene expression were not significantly increased in nonparenchymal cells during fibrogenesis; in fact, mrna for type iv collagen and laminin decreased by up to 50% in endothelial cells. despite the pronounced changes that occurred in matrix gene expression in nonparenchymal cells during fibrogenesis, no change was noted in hepatocytes. we conclude that nonparenchymal liver cells, particularly lipocytes, are important effectors of hepatic fibrosis in vivo.
oncogene amplification in breast cancer. to refine the analysis of gene amplification in breast cancer, the authors have developed sensitive methods that can be used to screen nucleic acid prepared from a variety of sources. in their analysis, southern hybridization and dna dot-blot analysis were used to screen 49 breast cancer dnas for myc, neu, and int-2 gene amplification. the analysis detected minimal one extra gene copy) as well as expanded (two or more extra gene copies) gene amplifications, and in addition, distinguished between gene amplification and aneuploidy as the cause of extra gene copies. these quantitative methods were adapted to patient specimens routinely available in the anatomic pathology laboratory, including fresh tumor tissue, tumor nuclei discarded during estrogen receptor analysis, and paraffin blocks. one minimal gene amplification was found in three cases of intraductal cancer. of 25 cases of nonmetastatic invasive cancer, 28% had at least one extra myc gene, whereas 24% had neu, and 21% had int-2 gene amplification. of 21 cases of metastatic invasive cancer, 43% had myc, 43% had neu, and 40% had int-2 gene amplification. among the nonmetastatic cancers, 47% had one, 12% had two, and 4% had three amplified genes. within the metastatic cancers, 48% had one, 28% had two, and 5% had three amplified genes. our data suggest relationships between tumor progression and both incidence and size of myc, neu, and int-2 gene amplification.
upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer. is routine intravenous urography worthwhile? the incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy, 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter. ten patients developed upper tract tumours; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria. six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months. in this series, all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions. routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy.
idiopathic scoliosis and asymmetry of form and function. this report investigates dimensions of hand and foot preference in 159 girls with idiopathic scoliosis diagnosed after the age of 8 years, 1,522 girls with clinically straight spines, and 132 with minor truncal asymmetry. it was found that, although there was no significant difference in hand or foot preference for individual items between scoliotic groups and controls, there was a statistically significant tendency for children with any degree of asymmetry to show uniform lateralization in the sense of consistency of side preference. another, smaller group showed a tendency for scoliosis to be associated with clearly visible facial asymmetry, which itself correlated with handedness. it was concluded that theories of scoliosis need to include the frequently ignored minor observations, such as the well-known fact of lateralization of the curve, if they are to describe the condition completely. because the asymmetry of cerebral lateralization is known to be genetically determined and because it is thought to result in other skeletal asymmetries, such as skull and limb inequality, it seemed reasonable to investigate the primary cause of that gross asymmetry, idiopathic scoliosis.
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease--more than a renal disease. autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd) is the most common genetic disease, affecting a half million americans. the clinical phenotype can result from at least two different gene defects. one gene that can cause adpkd has been located on the short arm of chromosome 16. this discovery has made possible new methods for diagnosing the disorder in gene carriers prior to the development of renal cysts. although renal cysts are clearly an important manifestation of the gene defect, other systemic manifestations are both common and clinically important. cardiac valvular lesions, intracranial aneurysms, hepatic cysts, and diverticula are included in the array of systemic manifestations. moreover, renal cysts are only one of a myriad of renal manifestations. although adpkd was long considered an adult cystic disease, it is also a common cause of childhood cystic disease and must be considered in the differential diagnosis in that setting.
immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders. a fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/ml. when concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis (n = 31) [including the calcifying forms (n = 10)], pancreatic cancer (n = 22), or nonpancreatic diseases (n = 17), no significant differences were found. in contrast, increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic (39/66) and acute pancreatitis (16/20) compared with control patients. the differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant (p less than 0.0001) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity. immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point (ph 9) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein. with respect to recent communications, these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators.
pericarditis with tamponade due to cytomegalovirus in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. a 35-year-old male homosexual with aids presented with headache and fever and was found to have cryptococcal meningitis. during the patient's hospital course, his hemodynamic status deteriorated as a result of pericardial tamponade. antemortem analysis of the fluid was unrevealing; however, postmortem examination of the pericardium revealed typical intranuclear inclusions of cytomegalovirus infection. cytomegalovirus should be included in the differential diagnosis of pericardial effusion in patients with aids.
should safety concerns with available ulcer treatment influence drug selection? with the identification of the parietal cell receptors for gastric acid secretion coupled with the introduction of cimetidine in 1977, treatment of acid-peptic diseases was transformed from empiric therapy to an approach based on a clearer understanding of human physiology. today, physicians are confronted with an array of antiulcer agents that differ within their drug class (e.g., the h2-receptor antagonists) as well as in their mechanisms of action (e.g., neutralize acid, alter mucosal defensive factors, or suppress acid secretion). with minor exceptions, the clinical efficacy of the available antiulcer drugs can be regarded as comparable. thus, the safety profile becomes the next consideration when choosing among similarly effective drug products. of the available antiulcer agents, the h2-receptor antagonists as a class have an excellent safety profile, as indicated by more than 25 years of cumulative clinical experience and postmarketing surveillance. important safety issues with currently available antiulcer drugs, i.e., h2-receptor antagonists, sucralfate, prostaglandin e analogues, and the newest antiulcer agent, omeprazole, are reviewed to place them into perspective for the clinician.
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with i-131 meta-iodobenzylguanidine. from february 1986 to december 1988, 31 children with advanced pretreated neuroblastoma were treated with 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine (131-mibg). thirteen children had been resistant to first-line therapy, three had suffered a local relapse, and fourteen had suffered a disseminated relapse without over bone marrow infiltration. one child was treated initially because of resistance to first-line therapy, and subsequently for a local relapse. a total of 72 courses of 131-mibg was administered, with doses ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 gbq (median, 3.7 gbq). one child received five courses, two four courses, 13 three courses, four two courses, and 12 one course of 131-mibg. the most common toxic effect was thrombocytopenia, with a platelet level of less than 50,000/cmm occurring after 19 of 60 evaluable courses. a leukocyte count less than 1000/cmm was seen only once. there were six major responses (two complete) lasting 4 to 9 months, and two minor responses lasting longer than 38 and 44 months. responses were seen more commonly in children whose only lesion was a residual primary tumor and in children who had not been pretreated who experienced disseminated relapse. further studies of the role of 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine in treatment of neuroblastoma are needed.
cryptic osteoid osteoma of the cranium: case report. osteoid osteoma is an uncommon benign tumor of bone that rarely involves the cranium. if often causes local pain that is worse at night, characteristically relieved by aspirin, and does not correlate with the size of the lesion. the diagnosis depends on skull radiographs and computed tomography. this report describes a case in which radiographs showed nothing abnormal. the diagnosis and operative localization were accomplished with radionuclide bone scanning. thus, the possibility of radiographically cryptic lesions must be considered in the evaluation of atypical head pain syndromes.
amyloidosis associated bleeding diatheses in the surgical patient. the coagulopathies associated with amyloidosis have not been widely appreciated. we encountered a patient with amyloidosis and mildly abnormal coagulation studies who presented for an emergency laparotomy for acute bowel obstruction. upon gentle manipulation of the bowel, an unexpected bleeding diathesis was manifested by the formation of several large haematomas resulting in a large amount of blood loss (approximately 800 ml). numerous defects of platelet function and coagulation have been associated with amyloidosis, including abnormal platelet aggregation, increased vascular fragility, factor ix and x deficiencies, decreased levels of alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor, and increased levels of plasminogen. intraoperative therapy for our patient included the rapid administration of four units of fresh frozen plasma and ten units of platelet concentrate. a review of the pathology and therapeutic modalities for this potentially life-threatening complication is presented.
endoscopic sclerotherapy in extrahepatic portal hypertension in pregnancy. extrahepatic portal hypertension usually occurs during childhood, but a substantial number of patients may reach adult life. there is a general agreement that pregnancy may become hazardous to these patients, and some authors even consider this condition as a contraindication to conceiving. a case of endoscopic sclerotherapy in such a patient is herein presented, and the approach to such patients is discussed.
visual loss with dancing extremities and mental disturbances. a case is reported of a teenage girl, who presented with a profound loss of vision in the right eye, secondary to retinal vasculitis. during the preceding year, a gradual change in her personality had been noted, associated with a deterioration in her intellect. she developed an area of pigment epithelial disturbance in the macular region of the right eye, and subsequently, optic atrophy. one year after this, she had a similar, but more localized episode in the left eye. she later developed involuntary movements, and two years after initial presentation, a diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis was made. subsequently her clinical condition deteriorated rapidly and she died. post-mortem examination confirmed the diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. this case demonstrates the insidious nature of the disease and suggests that the diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis should be considered in any child or young adult who presents with unexplained retinal vasculitis, maculopathy or chorioretinitis.
enhanced activity of the free radical producing enzyme xanthine oxidase in hypoxic rat liver. regulation and pathophysiologic significance. it has been widely proposed that conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase (xdh) to its free radical-producing form, xanthine oxidase (xod), underlies ischemic/reperfusion injury, although the relationship of this conversion to hypoxia and its physiologic control have not been defined. this study details the time course and control of this enzymatic interconversion. in a functionally intact, isolated perfused rat liver model, mean % xod activity increased as a function of both the duration (25 to 45% in 3 h) and degree (r = 0.97) of hypoxia. this process was markedly accelerated in ischemic liver by an overnight fast (45 vs. 30% at 2 h), and by imposing a short period of in vivo ischemia (cardiopulmonary arrest 72%). moreover, only under these conditions was there a significant rise in the xod activity due to the conformationally altered xdh molecule (xodc, 18%), as well as concomitant morphologic injury. neither circulating white blood cells nor thrombosis appeared to contribute to the effects of in vivo ischemia on enzyme conversion. thus, it is apparent that conversion to the free radical-producing state, with high levels of xod activity and concurrent cellular injury, can be achieved during a relatively short period of hypoxia under certain well-defined physiologic conditions, in a time course consistent with its purported role in modulating reperfusion injury. these data also suggest that the premorbid condition of organ donors (e.g., nutritional status and relative state of hypoxia) is important in achieving optimal organ preservation.
treatment of patients with isolated axillary nodal metastases from an occult primary carcinoma consistent with breast origin. the records of 42 patients who had axillary metastases compatible with a clinically occult breast primary were reviewed. forty patients had mammography performed as part of their evaluations. mastectomy yielded the primary tumor in one of 13 patients; biopsy yielded positive results in one of five. among the 29 patients who did not undergo mastectomy, 16 received breast irradiation, and 13 were simply observed for signs of the primary tumor. for the patients who did not undergo mastectomy, the 5-year actuarial risk for appearance of a primary was 17% in the irradiated group versus 57% in the nonirradiated group (p = 0.06). patterns of failure are correlated with stage and local and systemic therapy. the results affirm our belief that patients with axillary metastases histologically consistent with breast tumor should be treated identically to patients with similar nodal stages and proven breast primaries.
a variant of arteriovenous fistulas within the wall of dural sinuses. results of combined surgical and endovascular therapy. dural arteriovenous (av) fistulas are thought to be acquired lesions that form in an area of thrombosis within a sinus. if the sinus remains completely thrombosed, venous drainage from these lesions occurs through cortical veins, or, if the sinus is open, venous drainage is usually into the involved sinus. among 105 patients with dural av fistulas evaluated over the the past 5 years, seven had a unique type of dural av fistula in the superior sagittal, transverse, or straight sinus in which only cortical venous drainage occurred despite a patent involved sinus; the fistula was located within the wall of a patent dural sinus, but outflow was not into the involved sinus. this variant of dural av fistulas puts the patient at serious risk for hemorrhage or neurological dysfunction caused by venous hypertension. three patients presented with hemorrhage, one with progressive neurological dysfunction, one with seizures, and two with bruit and headaches. a combination of surgical and endovascular techniques was used to close the fistula while preserving flow through the sinus.
prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women. to better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy, we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women, age greater than or equal to 65 years, who participated in the multicenter prospective study of osteoporotic fractures. overall, 13.7% of women reported current use of oral estrogen; 10.9% took estrogen alone and 2.8% took estrogen opposed by progestin. four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds. current use declined sharply with age from 17% at age 65 to 4% at age greater than or equal to 85. the primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause. estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese. furthermore, estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation. a diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use, but only 24% of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy. we conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the united states use estrogen replacement therapy. selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease. in consideration of the distribution of these selection factors, estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures.
recurrent acute glomerulonephritis. biopsy-proven recurrent acute glomerulonephritis (agn) is extremely rare and is usually seen in children with acute, well-defined streptococcal infections. we present here a patient with recurrent agn in the absence of chronic bacterial infection. the subject, an 80-year-old man, had eight episodes of acute nephritic syndrome following upper respiratory tract infection. no abnormalities were detected during remissions. renal biopsies during two of those episodes showed typical postinfectious acute exsudative endocapillary glomerulonephritis, while results of another biopsy performed during remission were normal.
training, credentialling, and granting of clinical privileges for laparoscopic general surgery. despite the lack of scientific data comparing it with traditional open operations, laparoscopic surgery has gained rapid acceptance and implementation by general surgeons. individual hospitals, which have the responsibility for developing their own privileging criteria, are searching for guidance as to the amount and type of additional training required to grant clinical privileges in laparoscopic general surgery. laparoscopic surgery involves techniques different from those learned during general surgery residency training. therefore, until such techniques are regularly included in general surgery residency programs, additional training for and granting of separate privileges in laparoscopic surgery are appropriate. adequate training for surgeons already experienced in abdominal and biliary tract surgery can be acquired through a preceptorship in diagnostic laparoscopy, attending a course in laparoscopic surgery that includes both didactic instruction and live animal experience, assisting with the procedures in humans, and being proctored and certified as competent by an experienced general surgeon.
capillary refilling (skin turgor) in the assessment of dehydration. this study was undertaken to evaluate the usefulness of skin turgor or capillary refilling in estimating the degree of dehydration in infants with diarrhea. after initial standardization of the technique, capillary filling time was found to be more reproducible when measured in the fingernail bed after applying just the amount of pressure necessary to blanch the nail bed. capillary refilling time in 30 normal infants 2 to 24 months of age was 0.81 +/- 0.31 seconds. capillary filling time was then measured in 32 infants with diarrhea admitted to the hospital and correlated to the degree of dehydration as estimated from the difference in weight from the time of hospital admission to the weight after rehydration. a turgor time of 1.5 seconds or less was found to be indicative of a less than 50-ml/kg deficit or of a normal infant; 1.5 to 3.0 seconds suggests a deficit between 50 and 100 ml/kg, and more than 3 seconds suggests a deficit of more than 100 ml/kg.
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. recognition of a distinct clinicopathologic entity the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a newly described disorder related to the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products. its presentation may mimic other disorders characterized by eosinophilia and muscle pain and/or weakness, but can be differentiated by certain characteristic laboratory and pathologic findings. we report two such cases, describe their features, and review similar syndromes.
epirubicin cardiotoxicity: a study of 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. the cardiotoxicity of epirubicin (epi) was evaluated clinically, radiologically, with ecg, and with multiple ecg-gated radionuclide determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) during rest in 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. the epi doses were 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks or 45 mg/m2 plus vindesine 3 mg/m2 on the same schedule. the median cumulative dose of epi was 500 mg/m2 (range, 47 to 1,563). eight of the 135 patients developed congestive heart failure (chf). of 67 patients treated with epi less than 500 mg/m2, none developed chf. among 48 patients treated with doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2, one had chf (2%; 95% confidence limits, 0.1 to 11.1). among 20 patients who received epi from 1,000 to 1,563 mg/m2, seven developed chf (35%; 95% confidence limits, 15.4 to 59.2). four patients died due to cardiotoxicity. the risk of epi cardiotoxicity at the present schedule is considerable at doses above 1,000 mg/m2. at doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 the risk of chf decreases, and at doses below 500 mg/m2, it is negligible. for all patients, the prevalence of chf was 6% and the sensitivity of lvef high (95%), mainly due to the low incidence of chf. among the 20 patients who received epi at more than 1,000 mg/m2, the prevalence of chf was 35% and the sensitivity only 64%. the specificity was maximally 62%. our results suggest that lvef is of no value as a predictor for chf.
plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity treated by radiation therapy. plasma cell granuloma is a rare, benign tumor most commonly found in the lungs in patients younger than 30 years. although presentation has been reported at a number of other anatomic sites, this report is the first of plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity. the tumor was initially resected, but progression was seen at 1-month follow-up. because further surgery to completely eradicate the tumor would have been extensive and disfiguring, 40-gy external beam radiation was given in 20 fractions using a three-field wedge technique. most recent clinical follow-up at 27 months showed local control. surgery remains the treatment of choice for plasma cell granuloma when the disease can be completely resected. however, irradiation can also be effective in patients with recurrent or inoperable local disease.
cardiac arrest in seattle: conventional versus amiodarone drug evaluation (the cascade study). this randomized study evaluates survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (vf) not associated with a q-wave acute myocardial infarction who are deemed to be at a high risk of recurrence of vf. it compares the outcome of treatment with empirically administered amiodarone with the outcome of treatment with other antiarrhythmic agents guided by electrophysiologic testing or holter recording, or both. the goal of therapy guided by electrophysiologic testing is to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia (vt) or vf. holter recording is used as the primary means of adjusting therapy only if patients are noninducible at the baseline electrophysiologic study. patients are stratified according to cardiac diagnosis, ejection fraction, and whether they had previously received an antiarrhythmic agent that failed to suppress their arrhythmias. the primary end point of the study is total cardiac mortality. the first patient was enrolled in a pilot study on april 26, 1984. by october 1988, 142 patients had been enrolled in the full study and, as of may 1990, 199 patients have been enrolled. compliance with therapy has been good, with no patients lost to follow-up and 8% of patients, equal in both drug groups, crossing over to alternate therapy. baseline clinical characteristics remain similar in amiodarone and conventional drug groups. pulmonary toxicity with amiodarone is 7% at 1 year, with no patients dying of pulmonary toxicity. in the first 142 patients, the overall 1-year cardiac mortality was 19%, with a 17% arrhythmic mortality (either vf or presumed arrhythmic death).
hippocampal sclerosis in temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging. the value of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of hippocampal sclerosis has been controversial. we studied 10 patients aged 22.5 +/- 6.0 years with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy selected because of a history of a prolonged childhood convulsion, which is characteristic of a group of patients in whom hippocampal sclerosis is a constant finding. all 10 patients showed reduction in size of one hippocampus associated with increased signal intensity on t2-weighted magnetic resonance images. these changes were reliably detected on coronal spin-echo images, perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampus. appreciation of the normal imaging anatomy of the hippocampus allowed correct interpretation of the relative changes in signal intensities of the hippocampus and adjacent temporal horn on sequential echo images. the side of the abnormal hippocampus on magnetic resonance imaging accorded with the electroencephalographic localization in all 10 patients, and with the lateralization of the early convulsions in all 6 patients where this was known. temporal lobectomy was performed in all 10 patients. hippocampal sclerosis was confirmed in the 3 patients in whom hippocampal tissue was available for histological examination. the value of this technique was reinforced by the excellent postoperative results, with 80% being seizure free at a mean follow-up time of 33 +/- 4 months.
limb-body wall complex with complete absence of external genitalia after in vitro fertilization. the first case of limb-body wall complex (a combination of a body wall defect, neural tube defect, and limb abnormalities) after ivf is described. this is the third reported patient with this complex anomaly associated with complete absence of external genitalia. the possible pathogenic mechanisms are discussed.
chromosomal analysis of unfertilized oocytes and morphologically abnormal preimplantation embryos from an in vitro fertilization program. in vitro fertilization cycles yield a low percentage of pregnancies. eighty-five to ninety percent of the transferred embryos do not implant, and the abortion rate approaches 30%. aneuploidy is assumed to be responsible for a major portion of this pregnancy wastage. the purpose of this study was to determine if there was any correlation between morphology and chromosomal content of unfertilized oocytes and rejected embryos. to assess the chromosomal content of oocytes and embryos, we used the method described by tarkowski in 1966. sixty oocytes fron 28 women, aged between 27 and 41 years, were analyzed. sixty-seven percent were aneuploid; of these, 23.35% were hyperhaploid, 23.35% were hypohaploid, 8.35% were hyperdiploid, 3.35% were diploid, and 8.35% showed premature chromosome condensation. of 20 preimplantation embryos analyzed, 80% were aneuploid, 10% were diploid, 5% were haploid, and 5% showed structural anomaly. correlation was found between maternal age and aneuploidy in oocytes and between morphology and genetic balance in preimplantation embryos.
water and electrolyte balance after ileoanal anastomosis. water and electrolyte balance was studied in 30 patients with ileoanal anastomosis and j pouch, 10 patients with conventional ileostomy, and nine nonoperated patients with quiescent ulcerative colitis. serum electrolyte concentrations, daily urinary volume, and daily losses of sodium, potassium, and chloride were measured in all patients. daily fecal weight and daily losses of sodium and potassium were analyzed in patients with ileoanal anastomosis or conventional ileostomy. serum chloride in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than in those with conventional ileostomy or in nonoperated patients. daily urinary loss of sodium in nonoperated patients was significantly higher than in patients with ileoanal anastomosis (p less than 0.01) or conventional ileostomy (p less than 0.05). daily urinary loss of chloride in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than in nonoperated patients. daily fecal loss of potassium in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than in those with conventional ileostomy. daily urinary volume and fecal weight did not differ significantly in patients with ileoanal anastomosis or conventional ileostomy. the present study indicates that changes in water and sodium balance after ileoanal anastomosis are similar to those after conventional ileostomy but chloride balance is more altered after ileoanal anastomosis.
pulmonary artery-bronchus ratios in patients with normal lungs, pulmonary vascular plethora, and congestive heart failure. the pulmonary artery-bronchus ratio (abr), defined as the external diameter of a pulmonary artery divided by the external diameter of its accompanying bronchus, was measured in the upper and lower lung zones on frontal chest radiographs in the following groups of subjects: erect healthy subjects, erect subjects with pulmonary vascular plethora, erect subjects with clinical evidence of decompensated left-sided congestive heart failure (chf), supine normal subjects, and supine subjects with clinical evidence of decompensated chf. characteristic vascular patterns were found in each group. the positive predictive value of an abnormal vascular pattern determined by means of changes in the abr on the erect chest radiograph was 100%, with the negative predictive value of a normal pattern being 97%. the erect chest radiograph was 93% accurate in distinguishing between plethora and chf. the positive predictive value of an abnormal vascular pattern on the supine chest radiograph was 100%, with the negative predictive value of a normal vascular pattern being 97%. measurements of abr can be a helpful adjunct to the interpretation of supine and erect chest radiographs.
in-hospital symptoms of psychological stress as predictors of long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction in men. the impact of high levels of psychological stress symptoms in the hospital after an acute myocardial infarction (ami) was examined over 5 years among 461 men who took part in a trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention. psychological stress was assessed using the 20-item general health questionnaire (ghq) 1 to 2 days before hospital discharge. once discharged, patients in the treatment group responded to the ghq by telephone on a monthly basis and, when they reported high levels of stress symptoms (ghq greater than or equal to 5), received visits from nurses to help them deal with their life problems. control patients received routine medical care after discharge. post-hoc subgroup analyses based on life-table methods showed that, for patients receiving routine care after discharge, high stress (ghq greater than or equal to 5) was associated with a close to threefold increase in risk of cardiac mortality over 5 years (p = 0.0003) and an approximately 1.5-fold increase in risk of reinfarction over the same period (p = 0.09). in contrast, highly stressed patients who took part in the 1-year program of stress monitoring and intervention did not experience any significant long-term increase in risk. although program impact was significant in terms of reduction of both cardiac mortality (p = 0.006) and ami recurrences (p = 0.004) among highly stressed patients, there was little evidence of impact among patients with low levels of stress in the hospital.
inhibition of invasion of invasive human bladder carcinoma cells by protein kinase c inhibitor staurosporine. to study the effect of the protein kinase c (pkc) inhibitor staurosporine on invasion, we selected the invasive human bladder carcinoma cell line ej. total pkc activity was more than twofold higher in the ej cells than in rt4 cells (superficial human bladder carcinoma cells), which do not pass through an artificial basement membrane. there was more pkc activity in the cytosol than in the membrane of ej cells. staurosporine, at nontoxic concentrations, inhibited the invasion of ej cells through an artificial basement membrane in a dose-dependent manner. staurosporine caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell motility but did not inhibit cell attachment. staurosporine represents a new agent for the inhibition of tumor cell invasion and may prove useful in studying the mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon.
is sick sinus syndrome an adenosine-mediated disease? effects of intravenous aminophylline on sick sinus node function after pharmacologic autonomic blockade. to assess the effects of intravenous aminophylline on the sinus node, 12 patients with clinical and holter monitor-documented sick sinus syndrome were studied (1) during the control state, (2) after pharmacologic autonomic blockade and (3) 5 min after intravenous administration of aminophylline. the effects of aminophylline on sinus node function were compared with those after pharmacologic autonomic blockade. no significant improvement of sinus node function was found after intravenous aminophylline administration with a mean sinus cycle length and a mean maximum csrt of 968 +/- 218 and 1832 +/- 1036 ms, respectively. the mean serum theophylline level was 10.9 +/- 1.7 micrograms/ml. since aminophylline is an adenosine receptor antagonist, these findings suggest that intrinsic adenosine may not play an important role in pathogenesis in patients with chronic and advanced sick sinus syndrome.
irreversible tubulointerstitial damage associated with chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis. amelioration by angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibition. chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis is variably associated with tubulointerstitial damage, depending on the route and frequency of drug administration. recently, different groups have shown this injurious tubulointerstitial process to be reversible, coinciding with the resolution of heavy proteinuria to normal values. the authors have previously shown that a single jugular intravenous administration of puromycin aminonucleoside (pa) to male munich-wistar rats produces a triphasic pattern of glomerular injury and proteinuria, which culminates in focal glomerulosclerosis 70 weeks after drug administration. the authors now report the later progression of the tubulointerstitial morphologic abnormalities associated with acute nephrosis (phase i), despite spontaneous resolution of glomerular injury during the intermediate period (phase ii) in this model. although treatment of rats with the angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (50 mg/l drinking water) over the 70-week period did not affect the magnitude of proteinuria during the acute nephrotic phase, enalapril prevented the recurrence of proteinuria (phase iii), as well as significantly reducing the severity of interstitial fibrosis, extent of tubular dilatation, and number of intratubular casts on semiquantitative scoring at the conclusion of the study. in addition, enalapril-treated rats had less low-molecular-weight protein excretion during the recurrent phase of proteinuria, suggesting a preservation of tubular functional capacity to reabsorb these proteins. in vitro cytotoxicity studies showed only the glomerular visceral epithelial cell to be sensitive to pa, in contrast with rat tubular epithelium and other cellular controls. although the exact pathogenetic mechanism responsible for the development of the tubulointerstitial damage remains unknown, pa in vitro does not adversely affect rat tubular epithelium; there is however a clear correlation between the magnitude of recurrent proteinuria and the severity of tubulointerstitial morphologic abnormalities, as suggested by the beneficial effect of converting enzyme inhibition on both of these untoward processes.
expanding contractures of the tunica albuginea due to peyronie's disease with temporalis fascia free grafts. we describe a procedure to expand contractures of the tunica albuginea by multiple full thickness relaxing incisions followed by inlay of tailored temporalis fascia free grafts. this technique is performed without resection of the tunica albuginea, although in the case of calcified plaques the calcifications themselves are removed, preserving the overlying tunica. between september 1988 and february 1990, 12 patients have undergone this procedure, all of whom have greater than 3 months of followup and have experienced spontaneous erections within the first week postoperatively. of the patients 11 resumed intercourse within 8 weeks of surgery and 1 required 12 weeks. no patient had sensory loss postoperatively and there has been no donor site morbidity. correction of curvature was accomplished in all patients and there have been no recurrences within a maximal followup of 22 months. within the limitations of such a small study we believe that there is evidence supporting this approach in potent patients with severe acquired penile curvature.
a single case of huntington's disease simultaneously occurring with obstructive hydrocephalus. a case of simultaneously occurring huntington's disease and obstructive hydrocephalus is presented. huntington's and other neurodegenerative diseases have been described with normal-pressure hydrocephalus; however, no such description with obstructive hydrocephalus has been reported. the obstructive hydrocephalus displays a familial tendency in its presentation.
gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy: suggested guidelines for treatment twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention: 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed (five also undergoing choledochotomy) and one patient had a cholecystostomy. of these 23 patients, five were lithotripsy failures, five developed acute pancreatitis, one had acute cholecystitis, and one had cholangitis. one patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer. ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain, probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct. we suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy, i.e. five patients with pancreatitis, one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic. conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients. if, however, the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy, then resort to surgery may be necessary. we propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures.
germfree animals and technics in surgical research. germfree animals have been reared to a size, weight, and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems. germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations, indicating that life, reproduction, and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination. the value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems, shock, cancer, immunology, burns, wound healing, and in direct patient application. patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection, for operative procedures, for treatment of extensive burns, and for management of immune-suppressed individuals. we conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications.
asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle in infants with posthemorrhagic ventricular dilation. lateral cerebral ventricular volume in 36 preterm infants with or without an intraventricular hemorrhage, and with or without posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus, was measured longitudinally and compared with the ventricular index measurements of the same ventricles. a poor correlation was found (r2 = 0.67). to determine a reason for this poor relationship, we analyzed the volumes of the regions of the ventricles by a segmental volume analysis. the occipital region of the lateral cerebral ventricle enlarged at a much faster rate (1.904 +/- 0.477 ml/day) than either the anterior region (0.546 +/- 0.253 ml/day; p less than 0.01) or the middle region (-0.209 +/- 0.334 ml/day; p less than 0.01) in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. the rate of growth of the middle region of the lateral cerebral ventricles was the same for all infants. linear indexes, such as the ventricular index and the lateral ventricular ratio, do not allow for accurate serial estimates of ventricular size in posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus because of asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle. we conclude that sequential volume measurements are more useful than ventricular index measurements to follow ventricular size sequentially in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus.
comparative study of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma and adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma. clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical analyses. an important disease entity distinct from cutaneous t-cell lymphoma (ctcl) in japan is adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma (atl), which usually shows the same phenotype as ctcl, i.e., a helper/inducer t-cell phenotype (cd4+cd8-), and usually involves the skin. clinically, both ctcl and atl are heterogeneous in nature. in this study, we demonstrated differences between ctcl and atl in terms of clinical and immunopathologic cell surface features. in patients with atl, the predominant clinical findings were peripheral lymph node involvement, skin lesions, hepatosplenomegaly, leukemic manifestations, and an aggressive course. in patients with ctcl, by contrast, only skin lesions predominated at the onset of the disease and a relatively good prognosis was demonstrated. phenotypic heterogeneity of atl in the skin, i.e., cd4-cd8-, cd4+cd8-, and cd4-cd8+, was demonstrated. expression of leu8, cd7 (leu9), and cd45ra (2h4) was high in both the skin-infiltrating atl cells and peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells compared with that in the skin-infiltrating ctcl cells. expression of cd25 (il-2r), cd71 (okt9), hla-dr, and hla-dq was higher in the skin-infiltrating atl cells than in ctcl cells. expression of cd29 (4b4) was high, and that of cd45ra (2h4) was low in both the skin-infiltrating atl and ctcl cells compared with the peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells. expression of cd45ro (uchl-1) was not significantly high in the skin-infiltrating ctcl cells compared with that in atl cells. the most significant phenotypic difference between atl cells and ctcl cells was the expression of leu8 (lymph node homing receptor), cd7 and cd25 antigens on the cell surface, and the main phenotypic difference between skin-infiltrating atl and ctcl cells and peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells was the expression of cd29 and cd45ra. these findings confirm that the difference in antigen expression on the cell surface might reflect the clinical features of atl and ctcl, and suggest that the predominant phenotype of peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells is that of naive, relatively immature or activated t-cells, and that ctcl cells are previously activated (memory) t-cells. in other words, ctcl cells do not share the same origin as atl cells. these observations support the concept that atl is a disease distinct from ctcl.
aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the descending thoracic aorta. analysis of 40 necropsy patients. clinical and necropsy findings are described in 40 patients who had aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the descending thoracic aorta. their ages at death ranged from 39 to 91 years (mean, 66 years); 24 (60%) were men and 16 (40%) were women. systemic hypertension was present by history in 33 patients (83%) and the hearts were of increased weight in 78%. of the 40 patients, 31 (78%) had no operative intervention, while 9 (22%) underwent operation for aortic dissection. of the 31 patients without operative therapy, the diagnosis of aortic dissection was established in life in 9 patients (29%) and at necropsy in 22 (71%). the interval from aortic dissection to death was 30 days or less in 13 patients (42%); rupture of the false channel was the cause of death in 9 patients (69%), renal failure in 2 (15%), and the cause was unclear in 2 (15%). the interval from aortic dissection to death was more than 30 days in 18 (58%) of the 31 patients without operative therapy. the cause of death in these 18 patients was related to the dissection in 11 (61%) (rupture of the false channel in 5; renal failure from dissection in 3, and rupture of the false channel of a second acute dissection in 3), but in the other 7 patients (39%) death was unrelated to the dissection but a nonfatal complication, specifically stenosis of the true channel from compression by a thrombus-filled false channel, occurred in 4 of these 7 patients. thus only 3 (10%) of the 31 patients without operative therapy had no complications of aortic dissection. all nine patients who underwent operation had had an aortic dissection within 30 days, and the operation was performed because of a major complication of the dissection. four patients survived 8 to 84 months after the operation. thus early operative intervention (before the appearance of complications) appears justified in patients with aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the descending thoracic aorta to prevent rupture of the false channel acutely or after initial healing; to prevent renal failure from compression of renal arteries by an aneurysmal false channel; to prevent true channel stenosis from compression by a thrombus-filled false channel; and possibly to prevent the recurrence of acute dissection.
outcomes of direct coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in candidates and non-candidates for thrombolytic therapy. coronary angioplasty without prior thrombolytic therapy was performed in 383 patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami). patients were divided into 2 groups depending on whether they were candidates or non-candidates for thrombolytic therapy. patients were not considered thrombolytic candidates if they: (1) presented in cardiogenic shock, (2) were greater than or equal to 75 years of age, (3) had had coronary artery bypass surgery or, (4) had a reperfusion time of greater than 6 hours. thrombolytic and nonthrombolytic candidates had similar rates of reperfusion (92 vs 88%), nonfatal reinfarction (6.0 vs 5.9%) and recurrent myocardial ischemia (1.8 vs 0%). thrombolytic candidates had a lower mortality rate (3.9 vs 24%, p less than 0.0001) and a lower incidence of bleeding (4.6 vs 10.9%, p less than 0.05). improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction at follow-up angiography was 4.4% in thrombolytic and 10.5% in nonthrombolytic candidates (p less than 0.002). ejection fraction improved most in patients with anterior wall ami (7.7% in thrombolytic candidates, 15.1% in nonthrombolytic candidates) and in patients with reperfusion times greater than 6 hours (14.2%). these outcomes suggest that direct coronary angioplasty is a viable alternative method of reperfusion in patients with ami who are candidates for thrombolytic therapy. nonthrombolytic candidates are a high-risk group of patients. direct coronary angioplasty may be beneficial in certain subgroups, especially for patients in cardiogenic shock and for patients presenting greater than 6 hours after the onset of chest pain with evidence of ongoing ischemia.
usefulness of digital angiography in the assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction. with modern digital cardiac systems the image data are digitized on-line and in real-time, allowing the replay and subsequent interpretation and analysis during or directly after the cardiac catheterization procedure. in this study we have evaluated the advantages and limitations of a manual tracing technique for left ventricular digital angiograms on the phillips dci system. thirty-three patients who were catheterized for suspected coronary artery disease were studied. the manual tracings were performed by a senior cardiologist and an experienced function-analyst. it was found that the short- and long-term intraobserver variabilities in the assessment of the global ejection fraction were very small; short-term mean difference +/- standard deviation (correlation coefficient): 0.5 +/- 2.7 (r = 0.97) global ef%-units; long term; 0.7 +/- 2.7 (r = 0.96) ef%-units. the interobserver variabilities (5.1 +/- 4.8 (r = 0.93) ef%-units) were slightly higher than the intraobserver variabilities. a decrease by 25% in the amount of contrast medium administered did not significantly influence the variabilities in the contour tracings, which would suggest the use of smaller doses. at the average, the cardiologist and the function-analyst required 6 and 11 min of analysis time for a left ventricular study, respectively, emphasizing the need for further developments towards automated contour detection. finally, an excellent correlation was found with a standard off-line cinefilm analysis procedure. thus, it may be concluded that quantitative digital left ventricular angiography based on manual tracing of the outlines performed immediately following the cardiac catheterization (post-processing) is feasible as a routine procedure for the assessment of left ventricular function.
swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and pulmonary artery false aneurysm. swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and later pulmonary artery false aneurysm occurred in a patient with prosthetic mitral regurgitation. this patient was successfully managed by double-lumen endotracheal intubation, control of pulmonary hypertension, reversal of anticoagulation, mitral valve re-replacement, and transcatheter embolization. the pertinent literature is reviewed.
serum and csf levels of il-2, sil-2r, tnf-alpha, and il-1 beta in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis: expected lack of clinical utility. we measured interleukin-2 (il-2), soluble il-2 receptor (sil-2r), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha), and interleukin-1 beta (il-1 beta) by elisa in paired sera and csf from 50 chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (cpms) patients during worsening disability, 19 patients with other neurologic diseases (ond), and in sera from 40 healthy volunteers. in the cpms patients, 28% (14/50), 10% (5/50), 16% (8/50), and 6% (3/50) had elevated serum levels of il-2, sil-2r, tnf-alpha and il-1 beta, respectively, compared with healthy controls. the only analyte we detected in the csf was il-2 in 1 cpms patient (1/50, 2%). we also saw elevated serum sil-2r in 16% (3/19) of ond patients. we found no significant difference in mean levels of serum sil-2r between the 3 groups. our study, the largest to date of cpms patients, shows that serum and csf levels of il-2, sil-2r, tnf-alpha, or il-1 beta are not sensitive for, and the serum sil-2r level is not specific for, cpms. therefore, measurement of these analytes will not be clinically useful for therapeutic or prognostic purposes in the majority of cpms patients.
congenital diaphragmatic hernia: impact of prostanoids in the perioperative period. a prospective study of 10 neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and five controls to determine the importance of prostanoid concentrations perioperatively and the relation with persistent pulmonary hypertension (pph) is reported. in neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia postoperative concentrations of the vasoconstrictor thromboxane b2 rose significantly and were higher during episodes of pph; this rise may provoke pph and subsequent right to left shunting.
fatty liver hepatitis (steatohepatitis) and obesity: an autopsy study with analysis of risk factors. steatohepatitis (fatty liver hepatitis), histologically identical to alcoholic disease, occurs in some obese patients after jejunoileal bypass. a similar lesion occurs rarely in obese patients without bypass surgery, but the risk factors are poorly understood. hepatic steatosis, steatohepatitis and fibrosis were sought in 351 apparently nonalcoholic patients at autopsy and various risk factors were evaluated. incidence of steatosis and steatohepatitis correlated with the degree of obesity. steatohepatitis was found in 18.5% of markedly obese patients and 2.7% of lean patients. additional risk factors for steatohepatitis were type ii diabetes, weight loss in the preterminal period shortly before death and intravenous glucose therapy in the last week of life. severe fibrosis was found in 13.8% of markedly obese patients and in 6.6% of lean patients; this difference was largely explained by the higher prevalence of diabetes in obese groups. the risk factors defined in this study are known to be associated with abnormalities of free fatty acid metabolism. obesity, type ii diabetes and intravenous glucose therapy are associated with hyperinsulinemia, which may inhibit fatty acid oxidation. obesity and weight loss increase the presentation of fatty acids to the liver. similar metabolic changes may occur in obese patients after jejunoileal bypass surgery. thus this study supports the hypothesis that fatty acids have a role in the hepatocellular necrosis found in some obese individuals.
spontaneous electromyographic potentials in chronic spinal cord injured patients: relation to spasticity and length of nerve. nine patients with complete cervical spinal cord injury (sci) had their vastus medialis, tibialis anterior, and gastrocnemius muscles evaluated with an electromyographic (emg) examination in the acute (four to eight weeks) and chronic (more than one year) phases. the hypothesis that spontaneous emg activity changes with time was assessed. during the chronic phase evaluation, a conduction study was performed to rule out peripheral nerve damage, and the amount of reflex activity was assessed on a scale of 0 to 5 (0 = areflexia; 5 = greater than 5 beats of clonus) to estimate the amount of spasticity. subjects demonstrated normal conduction through the sensory (sural nerve) and/or motor segments of the peroneal and tibial nerves. in the acute phase, each muscle had spontaneous activity with no significant variation between different muscles of the same patient. in the chronic phase, there was a positive correlation between the degree of spontaneous activity in a muscle and the length of its axon (p less than .01) and a negative correlation between the amount of spontaneous activity and the degree of reflex activity (p less than .01). specifically, the lower motor neuron in the chronic phase of an sci seems to behave much like an axonopathy where the degree of spontaneous emg activity is dependent on the length of the axon, with the additional concept that spontaneous activity is inhibited by spasticity.
screening colonoscopy in asymptomatic average-risk persons with negative fecal occult blood tests. colonoscopy was performed on 210 asymptomatic average-risk persons, aged 50-75 years, who had negative fecal occult blood test results. colonoscopy was complete to the cecum in 209 subjects. fifty-three subjects (25%) had adenomas and two had cancer. all of the adenomas greater than or equal to 1 cm in size and both cancers occurred in subjects aged greater than or equal to 60 years. fifty-one percent of subjects with adenomas and one with cancer had no neoplasms distal to the sigmoid-descending colon junction. one subject had a major postpolypectomy hemorrhage that stopped spontaneously. screening colonoscopy, therefore, has a high yield for detection of neoplasms in asymptomatic average-risk persons aged greater than or equal to 60 years with negative fecal occult blood test results. the yield is low in persons aged 50-54 years and intermediate in persons aged 55-59 years.
decision criteria for pure-tone detection used by two age groups of normal-hearing and hearing-impaired listeners. response criteria from a yes-no task and detection thresholds from two test procedures were measured for four groups of adults: younger normal-hearing, older normal-hearing, younger hearing-impaired, and older hearing-impaired. the two test procedures were an audiological procedure (which does not control for response bias) and a 21fc adaptive procedure (which does control for bias). the signal was a 500 or 4000 hz tone presented in quiet. all four groups showed an equally conservative response bias in the yes-no task. in addition, neither age nor hearing loss affected the difference (6.5 db) between the two threshold measures.
use of h2-receptor antagonists in children. h2-receptor antagonists (h2ras) have evolved into the mainstay of anti-acid therapy for pediatric patients, replacing antacids and other modes of therapy. much of the experience and data used for therapeutic decisions in children, however, have been extrapolated from adult studies. ranitidine and cimetidine have been studied most extensively in the adult and pediatric populations. both raise gastric ph and achieve other therapeutic endpoints; however, cimetidine appears to have a greater frequency of both adversed effects and drug interactions. h2ras are the preferred agents for prevention of stress ulcers, ulcer disease, and reflux esophagitis in the pediatric population.
mid-line presentation of cervical lymphomata. three cases of lymphoma are reported, all of which presented as a mid-line cervical swelling and appeared to be localised disease. the importance of early removal of such lesions is emphasized.
hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction. although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition, hypotension, administered medications, sepsis, or other conditions, the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection, directly related to aids. infection with mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection. in contrast, hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise. cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis. cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis. about 10-20% of patients with aids have chronic hepatitis b infection. these patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis. the clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection. hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms. hepatic involvement by kaposi's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure. patients with non-hodgkin's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, and systemic symptoms. as a pragmatic approach, patients with liver dysfunction and hiv-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver. patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction. patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy. patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy. when performed for these indications, liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50% of patients with aids and in about 25% of patients who are hiv seropositive but who are not known to have aids. the clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections.
effect of plasmapheresis on serum and csf autoantibody levels in cns paraneoplastic syndromes. we compared the effect of plasmapheresis on antineuronal autoantibody titers in the serum and csf of 3 patients with cns paraneoplastic syndromes. plasmapheresis reduced the serum autoantibody titer to 20% of the initial levels in the 3 patients, but the csf autoantibody titer decreased only in the patient with severe damage of the blood-brain barrier.
establishment of an erythroid cell line (jk-1) that spontaneously differentiates to red cells. the authors established a new hemopoietic cell line (jk-1) from a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia in erythroid crisis. this jk-1 line predominantly consists of immature cells, but a small number of mature erythroblasts and red cells can be consistently seen without any specific differentiation inducer. the jk-1 cells grow in suspension culture supplemented with human plasma and carry double philadelphia chromosomes. hemoglobin staining with benzidine was positive for about 20% of cells and the type of the hemoglobin was for the most part hbf. surface-marker analysis revealed jk-1 cells positive for glycophorin a, ep-1, and hae9. the proportion of mature cells was elevated by the addition of delta-aminolevulinic acid. erythropoietin (epo) enhanced the growth of jk-1 cells either in the suspension or in methylcellulose semisolid culture. the total number of epo receptors was 940 per cell, of which 220 sites had an affinity higher than the other 720 sites. this is the first report of an established human erythroid cell line which spontaneously undergoes terminal differentiation.
thallium-201 stress scintigraphy in takayasu arteritis. thirty-eight women with takayasu arteritis were studied using thallium-201 stress myocardial scintigraphy to assess the prevalence and pathophysiology of the perfusion abnormality. twenty (53%) had abnormal scintigraphic findings (group a). abnormal scans were divided into 3 groups: permanent defects in 6, reversible defects in 7 and slow washout in 7. the remaining 18 patients had normal scintigrams (group n). group a had a tendency to be older and to have a high prevalence of complicated significant aortic regurgitation. interventricular thickness plus left ventricular posterior wall thickness (26 +/- 7 vs 17 +/- 2 mm, p less than 0.01) and left ventricular mass (267 +/- 121 vs 133 +/- 39 g, p less than 0.01) were all greater in group a on echocardiography. the mean value of the central aortic pressure in systole was 170 +/- 15 mm hg in the 7 catheterized patients in group a. coronary ostial stenoses were present in 2 group a patients who showed reversible defects on scintigrams. these data indicate that the abnormal perfusion detected by imaging in patients with takayasu arteritis was responsible for a decrease in coronary reserve or myocardial damage, or both, due to long-standing systemic hypertension or aortic regurgitation. coronary artery disease should be considered if a reversible defect is present.
the scapegoat effect on food aversions after chemotherapy. the effects of consuming a novel food (halva) versus a familiar food (cookies) before gastrointestinal (gi) toxic chemotherapy on patients' preference for familiar foods consumed after chemotherapy treatment were compared. the development of aversions to the novel and familiar foods was also assessed. patients with a history of posttreatment nausea consumed either a novel or a familiar food before chemotherapy and were asked to keep a food record through the next breakfast and to rate their preference for these foods. patients who consumed halva before treatment were significantly more likely to increase their ratings for foods consumed after chemotherapy than patients who consumed familiar cookies. aversions to the novel food were significantly more frequent than aversions to the familiar food. these findings provide evidence that a novel but not a familiar food consumed before chemotherapy can act as a scapegoat to prevent items in the regular diet consumed after chemotherapy from decreasing in preference. providing patients with a novel food before chemotherapy is a useful clinical intervention to reduce the likelihood of forming aversions to familiar foods consumed after chemotherapy.
rationale and efficacy of conservative therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease. major recent advances in the diagnosis and understanding of gastroesophageal reflux disease have afforded the practicing clinician a number of therapeutic options to treat the increasingly recognized affected patient population. with highly effective acid-suppressive therapies available, simple life-style modifications, such as selective food and medicine avoidance, weight loss, smoking cessation, elevation of the head of the bed, and the judicious use of antacids and alginate, have been relegated to a minor, if any, role in the management of these patients. the validity of these recommendations, however, remains consistent with our current understanding of the pathogenesis of gastroesophageal reflux disease. although few well-designed placebo-controlled trials have been conducted, a review of the medical literature indicates an appreciable efficacy of these interventions, which are founded on well-studied physiologic determinants of gastroesophageal reflux. most patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease can be managed by reassurance and simple life-style adjustments alone. the therapy for those with chronic or relapsing disease should always include the adjunctive reinforcement of these simple, efficacious, and cost-effective measures.
the surgical pathologist's role in liver transplantation. liver transplantation has become an option in treating a wide variety of diseases. the surgical pathologist, as a member of the transplantation team, is increasingly involved in the evaluation of allograft dysfunction. interpretation of the liver allograft biopsy specimen requires integration of clinical history, biochemical data, and histologic patterns of a wide variety of lesions, including harvesting injury, vascular thrombosis, rejection, infection, and recurrent disease. this article reviews the varied histologic appearances of the more common forms of liver allograft injury, the contexts in which they arise, and their distinction from one another.
biological correlates of mental activity studied with pet. the development of newer imaging techniques that allow direct investigation of the function of the human brain under normal and pathological conditions has affected the way in which we conceive of the mind/brain relation. in this report the authors use examples from findings obtained with positron emission tomography (pet) to illustrate the highly interactive organization of the brain. because operations in the brain require the participation of various brain areas, a model that does not require a one-to-one relationship between the physical and mental, but rather allows an association between clusters of physical processes and one or more mental phenomena, may reflect better the relation between physical brain phenomena and mental activities.
the de vega tricuspid annuloplasty. perioperative mortality and long term follow-up. one hundred and fifty-three patients undergoing de vega tricuspid annuloplasty, with or without other associated cardiac procedures between january, 1979, and june, 1987, were evaluated. there were 136 hospital survivors. the follow-up was 98.1% complete for a mean of 3.7 years/patient. operative mortality was 11.1%; preoperative nyha class and length of cpb were significant risk factors of perioperative mortality. the actuarial survival of operative survivors at 9 years was 73.5 +/- 11.8%. there were 7 late cardiac deaths among a total of 12 late deaths. eleven patients required reoperation (2.1 +/- 0.6% patient-year). in seven patients it was necessary for recurrence of tricuspid regurgitation; six of these had also a mitral prosthesis malfunction or a periprosthetic leak. residual tricuspid regurgitation was judged as mild, moderate or severe in 29.9%, 11.9% and 4.3% of the patients respectively. de vega tricuspid annuloplasty is the method of choice for mild and moderate tricuspid insufficiency; in selected cases, with a more severe degree of regurgitation, better results could be achieved with a different surgical approach.
baffle fenestration with subsequent transcatheter closure. modification of the fontan operation for patients at increased risk ventricular dysfunction, elevated pulmonary vascular resistance, and residual distal pulmonary artery distortion contribute to early mortality after a fontan operation; they may be transient or reversible. a baffle fenestration, allowing right-to-left shunting, maintains cardiac output and limits right atrial pressure. a baffle fenestration was surgically created at the time of a modified fontan repair in 20 consecutive patients. risk factors included pulmonary artery pressure of 18 mm hg or more, end-diastolic pressure of 12 mm hg or more, valvar regurgitation, pulmonary artery distortion, pulmonary vascular resistance of 2 woods' units or more, ventricular outflow obstruction, and complex anatomy. nineteen of 20 patients survived. after the operation, mean arterial oxygen saturation was 86%, mean right atrial pressure was 15 mm hg, and mean duration of pleural effusions was 6 days. twelve of 19 survivors tolerated early test occlusion and had permanent transcatheter umbrella closure. four patients failed early test occlusion, with a significant decrease in venous o2 saturation and a rise in central venous pressure, due to ventricular dysfunction, pulmonary artery distortion, or aortopulmonary collaterals. three of four had successful late closure of the fenestration after correction of these abnormalities.
symptom analysis of patients undergoing modified pereyra bladder neck suspension for stress urinary incontinence. pre- and postoperative findings. the results of a physician-directed follow-up of 145 women undergoing the modified pereyra bladder neck suspension from march 1980 to february 1986 are presented. median follow-up was 3.5 years (2.0-7.7); 70 percent of patients had follow-up between three and four years postoperatively. all patients had preoperative demonstration of stress incontinence as well as urodynamic evaluation. fifty-one percent of patients reported no stress incontinence and 76 percent reported that their sense of urinary control was better, or much better at the time of follow-up. improvement was seen in all grades of stress incontinence. age, weight, parity, and history of prior anti-incontinence surgery had no significant impact on success rates. although preoperative urgency symptoms were more common among failure (28% vs 15%), this association was not statistically significant. however, persistent or de novo urgency symptoms postoperatively were highly associated with postoperative incontinence (p less than 0.005). the onset of recurrent incontinence was experienced more than two years postoperatively in 23 percent of the incontinent group.
paradoxic air embolism in the absence of an intracardiac defect. a 58-year-old man experienced paradoxic air embolism with passage of air from the systemic venous to the systemic arterial circulation with subsequent stroke and death. no intracardiac shunt was present. pulmonary fibrosis concomitant with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension appears to have been responsible for the air traversing the pulmonary capillary bed. this unusual outcome of a complicated central venous catheterization must be borne in mind and guarded against in similar patients.
pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis. a systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients (15 men and 10 women) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years. seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed, which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis. bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients. the radiolucencies were located in the atlas (1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch) and in the axis (3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body). no horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated. these features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy. they could be a frequent, yet thus far little-recognized, feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis.
endothelial-derived relaxing factor released by endothelial cells of human umbilical vessels and its impairment in pregnancy-induced hypertension. the principal objective of this study was to determine and compare the capability of human umbilical vessels of normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients to produce and to release the endothelial-derived relaxing factor. a bolus of bradykinin injected in the perfusion system of human umbilical vessels induces a release of a relaxant factor, detectable by bioassay, that is pharmacologically similar to the endothelial-derived relaxing factor. human umbilical cords were collected from normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients. in the latter group the release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor is extremely reduced. in fact, in umbilical vessels collected from normal parturients, bradykinin at a dose of 20 pmol produces a release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor equivalent to a relaxation induced by 59.9 +/- 11.0 and 30.8 +/- 11.4 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate for the artery and vein, respectively. the same dose of bradykinin in umbilical vessels, collected from pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients, produces a release equivalent to 6.6 +/- 2.2 and 5.7 +/- 3.5 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate equivalent for the artery and vein, respectively. neither an increasing bolus of exogenous bradykinin or an infusion of superoxide dismutase or l-arginine was able to restore the production of endothelial-derived relaxing factor to normal levels. our results indicate a probable alteration of endothelial cell numbers or an alteration of the enzymatic pathway, probably due to cytotoxic endogenous factors produced in pregnancy.
morphological features of blood access stenosis and results of noninvasive angioplasty. we investigated a connection between the results of noninvasive angioplasty for the blood access stenosis and its morphological features in 37 dialysis cases. in 3 cases presenting stenosis in the original artery, the area could not be dilated by noninvasive techniques. in 4 cases with stenosis in the arterialized vein downstream of the needle insertion points for extracorporeal circulation, 3 showed long-term dilatation by the procedures. in 30 cases having stenosis upstream of the points, 16 showed long-term dilatation. in the unsuccessful cases, the angle formed between the axes of the stenosed portion and the normal vessel was over 39 degrees, and the distance between the anastomosis and the stenosed portion was less than 11 mm.
infarction in the anterior rostral cerebellum (the territory of the lateral branch of the superior cerebellar artery). we report 9 patients with an isolated infarct of the anterior part of the rostral cerebellum, ie, the territory of the lateral branch of the superior cerebellar artery. clinicoanatomic correlations are based on ct, mri, or both in 8 patients and on pathologic data in the ninth. the main clinical features were ipsilateral dysmetria and axial lateropulsion, dysarthria, and unsteadiness. in 1 patient, the clinical presentation mimicked a lacunar stroke (dysarthria and clumsy hand syndrome). there were no edematous cerebellar infarcts with signs of brainstem compression, and all patients spontaneously improved without significant sequellae. angiography in 2 patients and pathologic examination of arteries in 1 patient disclosed no occlusion in the vertebrobasilar system. six patients had a cardiac source of emboli. in conclusion, infarcts of the anterior part of the rostral cerebellum can be regarded as a benign condition in which there is, frequently, a cardiac source of emboli.
right ventricular systolic function during exercise with and without significant coronary artery disease. to evaluate the effects of exercise and coronary artery disease on right ventricular (rv) systolic function, rest and exercise biplane rv angiograms were recorded in 20 patients undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization. thirteen patients had exercise angiograms of sufficient quality to undergo analysis and were classified into 2 groups. group 1 had no or only mild coronary artery disease; group 2 had significant coronary artery disease as manifested by new, exercise-induced, left ventricular regional wall motion abnormalities. rv systolic pressure increased in both groups during exercise: 33 to 57 mm hg in group 1 (p = 0.0002) and 33 to 55 mm hg in group 2 (p = 0.0004). pulmonary resistance did not change in group 1 during exercise but increased in group 2 (3.2 to 4.8 wood units, p = 0.04). rv ejection fraction increased slightly, but not significantly, during exercise in group 1, but decreased in group 2 (73 vs 58% with exercise [p = 0.01]). the change in rv ejection fraction from rest to exercise correlated closely with the change in pulmonary resistance from rest to exercise (r = -0.89, p less than 0.0001). rv regional wall motion analysis demonstrated a generalized decline in regional ejection fraction in group 2 during exercise, even in patients without right coronary artery disease. in conclusion, there is a decline in rv ejection fraction during exercise in patients with significant coronary artery disease. the generalized reduction in regional rv ejection fraction coupled with the close correlation with the change in pulmonary resistance suggests that increased afterload, rather than rv ischemia, is the cause.
association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage. to test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury (grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage), 67 very low birthweight (vlbw) infants of 32 weeks' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied. thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure. the groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome. thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension (89%) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage. this percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure (three of 31, 10%). the risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure. these observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in vlbw infants.
use of ektacytometry to determine red cell susceptibility to oxidative stress. to define a more sensitive and reliable method to determine changes in the overall cellular characteristics of erythrocytes after oxidative damage, we used a viscodiffractometric method (ektacytometry) to measure the effect of oxidative stress. erythrocytes were incubated in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, t-butyl hydroperoxide, or cumene hydroperoxide in phosphate buffer. this treatment resulted in decreased cellular deformability of the intact erythrocytes. in addition, deformability and fragility measurements of the erythrocyte ghost membranes indicated an increased membrane dynamic rigidity and altered-mechanical stability as a consequence of oxidant stress. these changes were observed before the onset of hemolysis. the observed decrease in deformability was accompanied by oxidation of hemoglobin, alterations of membrane proteins, and lipid peroxidation. to continuously measure the time course of the decrease in deformability in intact erythrocytes under oxidative stress, a new ektacytometric method was developed. erythrocytes were oxidatively challenged within the viscometer at a constant osmolality and shear stress. the change in deformability was monitored and a typical range was defined for erythrocytes from normal individuals. comparison of erythrocytes from patients with sickle cell disease with those from normal individuals demonstrated a higher susceptibility of sickle red cells toward oxidative stress.
iron and the liver. iron is essential for life, but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal. the liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload, especially when (as in primary hemochromatosis) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes. iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including: (1) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin, (2) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin, (3) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight, non-protein bound forms of iron, and (4) uptake of heme from heme-albumin, heme-hemopexin, or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes. normally, pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes. iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin, an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin. iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mrna and represses transcription of dna for transferrin and transferrin receptors. the major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are: (1) fibrosis and cirrhosis, (2) porphyria cutanea tarda, and (3) hepatocellular carcinoma. although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown, iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability. vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation.
the prognostic value of image analysis in ovarian cancer. histologic grading is very important for treatment decisions in ovarian cancer. all grading systems contain a significant subjective component, which could be reduced by including objective measurements into the diagnostic decision. image analysis was used to determine nuclear area and ploidy distributions in 42 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, and the results were related to tumor grade and clinical outcome. the mean nuclear area, mean optical density, number of hyperploid cells, and the standard deviation between measurements were significantly higher in grade 2 and 3 tumors compared with grade 1 tumors, in rapidly progressive tumors compared with less aggressive malignancies, and in recurrent tumors compared with primary lesions. the number of nuclei with very high dna content was found to be of prognostic importance. image analysis thus provides additional prognostic information in epithelial ovarian cancer.
persistent primitive trigeminal artery-cavernous sinus fistulas: report of two cases. two cases of persistent primitive trigeminal artery-cavernous sinus fistulas are presented. in one case, the fistula was treated by using a two-balloon tandem technique. this method was accomplished by introducing, inflating, and detaching a silicone balloon into the trigeminal artery, thus preserving the carotid and basilar blood flow. an unusual case of a similar fistula with only contralateral exophthalmos is also reported. the relationship between this type of fistula and the presence of aneurysms on the persistent primitive trigeminal artery and the relationship with traumatic events are discussed.
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas. part 1: female sex steroid receptors and their significance as specific markers for adjuvant medical therapy. female sex steroid receptors were examined in 50 human cerebral meningiomas. for estrogen receptors, high-affinity binding sites (dissociation constant (kd): 0.05 to 0.2 nm) were found in the cytosolic fraction with a capacity of less than 4 fmol/mg protein in 10 meningiomas using a dextran-coated charcoal (dcc) assay. in the same cytosolic fraction, the solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed only one cytosol with a positive colorimetric reaction equal to 5 fmol/mg protein. however, in the nuclear compartment, none of the tumors stained positively for estrogen receptors with immunohistochemical techniques. in addition, the most convincing evidence for the absence of estrogen receptors was obtained by in situ hybridization using an oligonucleotide probe complementary to a fraction of the human receptor messenger ribonucleic acid (mrna). in none of the 50 meningiomas was the expression of estrogen mrna coding for the estrogen receptor detected. for progesterone receptors, high-affinity binding sites (kd: 0.3 to 2.6 nm) were found in 49 of the 50 tumors using a dcc assay. in the same cytosols, solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed that each tumor was positive for progesterone receptors. however, in the nuclear compartment, only five tumors had partially positive staining for progesterone receptors with immunohistochemical techniques. within the confines of this study, it is concluded that: 1) the estrogen receptor is generally absent in meningioma tissue, and 2) the progesterone receptor is mainly absent in the nuclear compartment, leading to the conclusion that the cytosolic progesterone receptor may be an inactive form. this study suggests that female sex steroid receptors are not primarily involved in the proliferative rate of cerebral meningiomas and that they are of no current significance as markers for adjuvant medical therapy of most meningiomas.
platelet aggregation is not necessary for occurrence of raynaud's phenomenon: a clinical history and laboratory results. "raynaud's phenomenon (r.p.) is characterized by a spastic vasoconstriction of hand and/or feet extremities leading to painful ischemic attacks. in the pathogeny of this syndrome the role of a platelet hyperactivation was evidenced. nevertheless, the responsibility of platelet aggregation remains controversial. we report here the case of a patient presenting with a glanzmann thrombasthenia defined by the complete lack of platelet aggregation, and showing a typical rp which was confirmed by the measurement of hand temperature and the decrease of digital and hand blood flow. thus, the description of this case shows that platelet aggregation by itself is not necessary for the occurrence of rp, and encourages for therapeutic purposes the development of vasodilatators rather than platelet antiaggregants agents.".
olfactory identification deficits in hiv infection. objective: impaired odor identification is described in a number of cns disorders, and human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infects the cns in a large percentage of patients. to evaluate whether impaired olfaction may indicate cns disease, the authors measured odor identification in patient groups defined along a continuum of progressive immunodeficiency and in a comparison group. method: most of the 42 hiv-infected patients in the study were outpatients in a clinic specializing in treatment of hiv-infected individuals. the comparison subjects were 37 healthy age- and sex-matched individuals who were recruited from hospital and medical school personnel. ten of the patients were hiv-seropositive but had no symptoms, 24 had clinical evidence of immunocompromise, and eight had hiv dementia. all subjects were given the university of pennsylvania smell identification test, which presents common odorants and requires the subject to identify the odor from a four-item word list. the data were analyzed by using analysis of variance after arc-sine transformation and scheffe post hoc analysis. results: all patients scored significantly lower on the smell identification test than did the comparison subjects. the patients with hiv dementia had significantly lower scores than did the other two groups of patients. conclusions: clinically, impaired olfaction might serve as a marker of early cns hiv involvement. future studies should attempt to match comparison and experimental populations for socioeconomic status and hiv risk behavior.
obstructive sleep apnoea in children undergoing routine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. sleep screening was used to discover the incidence of sleep apnoea in 50 children undergoing routine adenotonsillectomy for recurrent upper respiratory tract infections, randomly selected from the waiting list. preoperative assessment included a detailed parental history, physical examination, and lateral cephalometry, in order to identify factors that might alert the clinician to a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnoea. there were 2 equal groups of snorers and non-snorers (grade 0); 1 patient was found to have the sleep apnoea syndrome (iv), 9 patients had obstructive snoring with apnoeic episodes (iii), 3 patients had snoring with a disrupted sleep pattern (ii), and 12 patients snored with no disruption of sleep (i). in identifying patients with apnoea, a history of snoring was unhelpful, whereas one of breathing irregularities was found to be highly specific. nasal obstruction correlated poorly; however, there was a significant relationship between tonsillar position and size and sleep grade (chi-squared p less than 0.01). stepwise regression analysis showed a large contribution to the grading was made by the size of the oropharyngeal airway measured by lateral cephalometry. the children in grade ii-iv were re-studied 3 months post-operatively and all reverted to grades 0 or i.
outbreak of diarrhoea due to escherichia coli o111:b4 in schoolchildren and adults: association of vi antigen-like reactivity. during six days in november, 1987, 611 pupils (age range 7-19 years) and 39 adults (23-57) at a school complex in southern finland had diarrhoea due to escherichia coli o111:b4. diarrhoea developed in 137 other household members during the two weeks after the school outbreak. the source of the organism remains unknown. the outbreak strains, when incubated at 22 degrees c or exposed to ampicillin, lost the lipopolysaccharide o antigen and began to react with antisera against salmonella typhi vi antigen. the vi antigen-like reactivity increased the adherence of the organisms to hep-2 cells. these results indicate that e coli o111:b4, and possibly other enteropathogenic e coli strains, should be considered in the diagnosis of all diarrhoea cases and not only in infantile diarrhoea. expression of vi antigen in e coli may play a part in virulence by enhancing adherence to the intestinal epithelium.
mucoid vasculopathy of unknown etiology. a new vascular disorder with generalized deposition of abnormal amounts of acid mucopolysaccharide (amps) material in arteries, veins, and vasanervorum has been observed in a large number of autopsies at the author's institution. it is unlike any of the known vascular diseases and has emerged as a distinct disorder of vascular connective tissue. this has been named "mucoid vasculopathy of unknown etiology." this hitherto unreported entity is described here.
management of meralgia paresthetica meralgia paresthetica is a syndrome of pain or dysesthesia, or both, in the anterolateral thigh caused by entrapment or neurinoma formation of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve. conservative treatment was successful in relieving symptoms in 91% of 277 patients with this syndrome; however, 24 patients required surgical treatment for intractable symptoms. although neurolysis with transposition is the most common procedure, sectioning of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve was performed in 24 cases and was successful in 23. one patient had early symptomatic relief, but subsequently developed different neurological signs and symptoms because of an undetected pelvic neoplasm. anatomical variations of the nerve and neurinomas, which occur frequently, are easily handled with sectioning but may lead to recurrence with neurolysis and transposition.
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy. report of a case. retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature. this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented. it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication.
lack of bone accretion and amenorrhea: evidence for a relative osteopenia in weight-bearing bones. bone mineral density (bmd) was studied in young exercising amenorrheic girls to determine if density was compromised and the change related to injury. ninety-eight volunteers (professional ballet dancers and controls) were studied in a cross-sectional study. dancers and controls were further subdivided into normally cycling and amenorrheic subjects. amenorrhea significantly lowered bone density of the spine (p less than 0.0001), wrist (p less than 0.03), and metatarsal (p less than 0.01); effects on the wrist were eliminated by controlling for age while controlling for weight eliminated all effects of amenorrhea at three sites. bmd of the metatarsal, a weight-bearing bone, showed an interaction between amenorrhea and dancing (exercising) p less than 0.035); surprisingly, dancing was associated with a further lowering of bone density. this interaction was eliminated when controlling for age, but not when controlling for weight. with multiple comparisons of the groups, spine, wrist, and metatarsal bone density was significantly lower in amenorrheic dancers when compared to normal dancers (p less than 0.05), even when controlling for age and weight in the metatarsal (p less than 0.05), and age in the spine (p less than 0.05). estradiol levels correlated with bone density of both the wrist and the spine (r = 0.25, r = 0.23, p less than 0.02). metatarsal density correlated with estradiol levels only in the dancers (r = 0.34, p less than 0.02). the only variable found to correlate with the occurrence of stress fractures was age of menarche. this was also the only variable of 9 (bmd of the wrist, spine or foot, calories ingested and expended, amount of calcium ingested, involvement in high energy activity, age of menarche or presence of amenorrhea) to predict stress fractures. thus, bmd is significantly affected by the presence of amenorrhea but the effects are generally weight dependent. the compensatory increase in bone density generally seen in stressed bones, such as the metatarsal in ballet dancers, is deficient in amenorrheic premenopausal women even when controlling for weight but this effect may be age and estrogen dependent. bone mass may not accumulate in the same manner in adolescents as in the mature women, thus putting them at risk for injury.
intracranial hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations during pregnancy and the puerperium. intracranial hemorrhage (ich) from an intracranial aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation is a grave complication of pregnancy and is responsible for 5 to 12% of all maternal deaths. we critically analyzed 154 cases of verified ich during pregnancy from an identified intracranial lesion, including 2 patients treated at our institution and 152 cases previously reported in the literature in english. aneurysms were responsible for ich in 77% of patients, and arteriovenous malformations in 23%. hemorrhage occurred antepartum in 92% of patients and postpartum in 8%. women with angiomatous hemorrhage were younger than those with aneurysmal hemorrhage; however, in contrast to previous reports, we found no differences between angiomatous and aneurysmal hemorrhage with respect to parity or gestational age at the time of the initial hemorrhage. hypertension and/or albuminuria were present at some time during the pregnancy in 34% of patients with documentation, which sometimes made it difficult to differentiate angiomatous or aneurysmal ich from that associated with eclampsia. in a logistic regression analysis, surgical management of aneurysms, but not arteriovenous malformations, was associated with significantly lower maternal and fetal mortality, independent of other covariants. for those patients with a lesion not operated on, cesarean delivery afforded no better maternal or fetal outcome than did vaginal delivery. we conclude that the decision to operate after ich during pregnancy should be based upon neurosurgical principles, whereas the method of delivery should be based upon obstetrical considerations. the perioperative and anesthetic management of the pregnant patient with a neurosurgical complication is discussed.
the clinical course of residual carotid arterial disease. over a 5-year period 642 patients underwent 686 carotid endarterectomies with patch closure and intraoperative surveillance with continuous-wave doppler. the perioperative stroke rate was 1.5%. patients were screened with duplex scans immediately after operation for the presence of residual carotid lesions, and followed every 3 to 6 months for either the development of a true recurrent lesion or a change in a residual one. five hundred thirty-nine arteries (84%) had no postoperative abnormalities. the incidence of recurrent carotid lesions in this groups was 1.5%, 3.4%, and 5.2% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. the incidence of symptoms in this group was 0.2%, 0.7%, and 1.4% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. the earliest recurrence or symptom occurred 8 months from operation. one hundred forty-seven arteries had residual lesions that were more common when either a temporary shunt was used or the operation was carried out above the hypoglossal nerve or below the omohyoid muscle. sixty-one patients who had plaque proximal to the arteriotomy without a significant stenosis were followed an average of 21 months. there were no changes in plaque morphology and no proven symptoms related to the residual lesion. fifty-six patients with both plaque and significant hemodynamic abnormalities in the carotid bulb were followed an average of 18 months. seven of these patients (12.5%) had either a significant deterioration of the lesion or a symptom from it. each event occurred within 6 months of operation. thirty patients had significant flow abnormalities but no visible plaque. none of these lesions deteriorated. although common, residual carotid lesions are benign unless the lesion is characterized by both plaque within the artery and a hemodynamically significant stenosis. these lesions should be further investigated and treated when discovered.
granulomatous vasculitis in crohn's disease [published erratum appears in gastroenterology 1991 aug;101(2):595] this study investigated a possible vascular origin for granulomas in crohn's disease. twenty-four consecutive resected specimens of small and large intestinal crohn's disease were preserved by arterial perfusion-fixation with 10% formol saline, at mean arterial pressure (100 mm hg). fifteen specimens contained granulomas on routine examination of h&e-stained sections. these 15 specimens were examined in detail using a range of immunohistochemical staining techniques to identify vascular structures and granulomas. a total of 485 granulomas were found, 85% of which were identified as being directly involved in vascular injury. the majority (77%) of granulomas were deep to the mucosa; they were found most frequently in the submucosa (42%). the techniques used in this study enhanced the recognition of granulomatous vasculitis. the results suggest that the majority of granulomas in crohn's disease form within walls of blood vessels. vascular localization of granulomatous inflammation suggests that the intestinal microvasculature contains an early element in the pathogenesis of crohn's disease.
tension pneumocephalus: treatment with controlled decompression via a closed water-seal drainage system. case report. the successful treatment of a patient with tension pneumocephalus by controlled decompression via external drainage is described. the advantage of the technique includes the immediate release of high pressure and the capability of maintaining constant low pressure to enable and facilitate sealing of dural tears. the method has been used in three other patients, leading to resolution of the tension pneumocephalus without recurrence or other complications.
femoral noninfected anastomotic aneurysms. a report of 56 cases. fifty-six femoral non infected anastomotic false aneurysms (faas) were observed in 49 patients admitted to the institute of vascular surgery, university of milan, from 1975 to 1988; in 6 patients they were bilateral. these aneurysms developed after primary revascularization procedures at a mean interval of 66 months (range 12 to 156 months); one recurred after reparative surgery. forty-four faas (78.6%) were asymptomatic, whereas 3 (5.3%) were complicated by acute expansion and 9 (16.1%) by thrombosis. host vessel degeneration was the cause of aneurysm formation in most cases. a history of hypertension was present in 30% of the patients. all anastomotic aneurysms were operated upon except for one small aneurysm that was asymptomatic. in 5 patients aneurysm resection was carried out on both sides. the surgical technique was endoaneurysmectomy in all the cases with insertion of an interposition graft in 48 cases, a fabric patch in 2 cases and prosthesis re-anastomosis in 5 cases. one case of peripheral embolization occurring in the early postoperative period was successfully treated and there was no operative mortality. in our opinion elective repair of these aneurysms should be recommended whenever possible because of their propensity to develop serious complications and the operative morbidity is low.
combined surgical resection and iridium 192 implantation for locally advanced and recurrent desmoid tumors. thirty-eight histologically confirmed desmoid tumors were treated with conservative surgical resection and interstitial iridium 192. patients included in this series constituted a poor prognostic group. seventy five percent (75%) had previous recurrences of their disease and 50% had tumors 8 cm or greater in size. in addition, 16% of the patients had gross residual disease after surgical excision and 79% had positive or close margins of resection. with a median follow-up of 5.5 years, the 5-year actuarial in-field local control rate was 75% and the overall local control rate was 66%. four of the 12 local recurrences developed at the periphery of the implant volume and four patients failed at least 3 cm or more beyond the treated volume. after salvage therapy, the 5-year actuarial local control rate was 95%. two patients required amputation for recurrent disease. thirty of 34 patients remain free of disease with an excellent functional result achieved. the authors conclude that surgical resection and postoperative interstitial iridium 192 is effective therapy for patients with desmoid tumors. despite the fact that most patients in this series had bulky, recurrent tumors, excellent long-term local control and limb function were achieved.
antagonism of serotonin s3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens the control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem. in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we evaluated the effect of serotonin s3 receptor blockade with ondansetron (gr 38032f) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy. cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous (iv) doses of 0.15 mg/kg. most patients had breast cancer. cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin (65% of patients) or with fluorouracil (85% of patients: 50% with adriamycin [doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh] and 35% with methotrexate). all placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting, whereas 70% of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit (p = .008). median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo (p less than .001). seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite, compared with 10% of placebo patients. adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient. diarrhea and headache were the most common events, both occurring more frequently in the placebo group. there were no extrapyramidal reactions, and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient. these results suggest that serotonin s3 receptor antagonists represent a novel, effective, and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies. in addition, our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin, acting on s3 receptors, mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy.
development of a small caliber biologic vascular graft: evaluation of its antithrombogenicity and the early healing process. the authors previously showed that a small caliber xenograft using our crosslinking technique was applicable to aortocoronary bypass grafting. in this study of the graft, the antithrombogenicity and healing process was evaluated at an early stage after implantation. fresh sheep carotid artery (3mm id) was obtained and cross-linked with polyepoxy compounds, and then used as a small caliber vascular graft. the graft was white and soft. six cm segments of the graft were implanted into the carotid arteries bilaterally in nine dogs. sodium heparin was given during the surgery, but no anticoagulant was used postoperatively. fifteen grafts from eight dogs were removed from 1 hr to 30 days after implantation, and 13 of 15 grafts were found to be patent. two grafts, one at 3 days, and the other at 14 days, were occluded. the anastomotic area of the occluded grafts felt hard when touched from the outside. in one dog, the grafts were shown angiographically to be patent at 14 days after implantation, and this dog was kept for long-term observation. macroscopically, no thrombus was observed on any of the patent grafts. microscopically, the inner surface near the anastomotic lines was covered with endothelial cells, and infiltration of fibroblasts was observed from the outside 7 days after implantation. no foreign body reactions were seen around the graft. after 30 days of implantation, a thin layer of plasma protein at the middle of the graft was observed by scanning electron microscopy (sem). from these observations, it was concluded that the grafts exhibited satisfactory early antithrombogenicity and healing after implantation.
surgery in patients on long-term steroid therapy: a tentative model for risk assessment. increased morbidity after operation has been associated with long-term steroid therapy. to determine the correlation between steroid therapy and such morbidity, the perioperative course of 55 steroid-treated patients was reviewed: 27 had bronchopulmonary disorders (group p) and 28 had non-pulmonary diseases (group np). there were six (11 per cent) deaths, of which three were steroid related. among the 13 non-lethal postoperative complications, eight were considered to be steroid related in group p and one in group np. the duration of steroid therapy was for a median of 24 months (range 1-408 months) in group p and for a median of 6 months (range 1-240 months) in group np (p less than 0.01). in contrast, the daily dose of hydrocortisone or equivalent before operation was significantly lower in group p, with a median of 0.51 mg kg-1 day-1 (range 0.20-2.56 mg kg-1 day-1) than in group np, with a median of 1.20 mg kg-1 day-1 (range 0.23-7.38 mg kg-1 day-1) (p less than 0.01). in conclusion, bronchopulmonary disorders requiring a long duration of steroid therapy are associated with a higher risk of steroid-related complications after surgery. a convenient mathematical model is proposed which may allow a preoperative assessment of surgical risk, using steroid dose and duration of treatment.
dynamic analysis of the harrington system using a spinal simulator. the authors constructed a spinal simulator for the thoracolumbar spine with mechanical properties similar to those of cadaver specimens, and studied the effectiveness of the harrington system in unstable fractures of the thoracolumbar spine. distraction and compression rods were applied under various conditions. external bending moment was applied to the model to measure the internal bending moment on the vertebral body and ligaments. optimal spinal stability was obtained when the distraction system was combined with the compression system with hooks at laminas three levels above and below the fracture.
us-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of gallbladder masses. ultrasonically (us) guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy was performed in 88 patients who had gallbladder masses. all masses were less than 4.8 cm in diameter. a 22- or 23-gauge, teflon-coated needle was placed into the mass with the transhepatic or transperitoneal route. by means of this technique, gallbladder malignancy was confirmed in 69 of the 78 cases of malignancy (88.5%). ten of 10 benign lesions were properly categorized. one patient developed bile peritonitis following a single needle pass with the transperitoneal approach. pain, a minor complication of the procedure, was noted in four cases. no instances of hemorrhage or vasovagal reactions occurred. from their experience in this large series, the authors conclude that us-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of gallbladder masses is a safe, reliable, and accurate technique for the diagnosis of malignancy.
recurrence of crohn's disease after resection. recurrent crohn's disease develops in most patients after surgical resection if the patient is followed for sufficient time. this review examines various aspects of recurrent crohn's disease. it is concluded that crohn's disease is a diffuse condition of the gastrointestinal tract and that radical resection of crohn's disease does not prevent recurrence. assorted factors thought to be associated with recurrence are examined and the relevance of these factors to the surgeon treating crohn's disease is discussed.
nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis in hong kong chinese. fifty-two hong kong chinese cases of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis at autopsy were reviewed to ascertain if there was any difference in autopsy incidence, associated diseases, age and sex incidence, distribution of infarcts, and pattern of valve involvement compared with that in previously reported series. the overall autopsy incidence was 0.68%, within the range of previous reports. forty-one cases (79%) were associated with malignant neoplasms; the remaining 11 cases were associated with miscellaneous disorders. adenocarcinoma was associated with 27 (52%) of the cases. unusual findings were the association of five cases with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and four cases with esophageal squamous carcinoma. this is explicable on the basis of a higher incidence of these two tumors in hong kong chinese than in western populations, ie, the source of most other reported series. sex and age incidence, the distribution of infarcts, and the pattern of valve involvement were similar to those reported in other series of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis.
rupture of the oesophagus during cricoid pressure rupture of the oesophagus occurred during the application of cricoid pressure at induction of anaesthesia when the patient vomited. the patient, who was bleeding from a gastric ulcer, was found to have a lower oesophageal tear which, although repaired at operation, resulted in a fatal mediastinitis.
disability from bicycle-related injuries in children. bicycle crashes are a major cause of injuries in childhood. the goal of this study was to determine the long-term disabilities caused by bicycle-related injuries, and to clarify the long-term treatment priorities of injured children. hospital records of 372 children (ages 2-15 yr, median 9 yr; 232 boys and 140 girls) admitted with bicycle-related injuries from 1979 through 1986 provided clinical information, social service visits, in-hospital and outpatient rehabilitative interventions, and physical status at discharge. more complete evaluations were made by contacting parents by telephone (82 children), and by personal interview and physical examinations (27). head injuries predominated (69.1%). twelve (3.2%) died, all from major head injuries. four suffered permanent severe impairment from cervical spinal injuries and head injuries and remain institutionalized (1.4%). one third had a persistent disability noted at the time of discharge in the medical record (33.6%), reported by telephone interview (31.7%), or confirmed by physical examination (37.0%). still, only 11.0% received physical therapy consultations during hospitalization, and 22.8% received social service assistance. only 39.0% were seen by a surgeon or pediatrician after discharge, and few (7.3%) received outpatient physical therapy. cognitive or behavior changes were noted in 31.7%, many noting changes in school performance (worse in 20.7%), behavior (13.4%), and sleep, particularly nightmares (34.1%). recurrent injuries occurred in 52 children (14.4%), of whom ten (2.8%) required further hospital admission. bicycle-related injuries cause significant short- and long-term disabilities among children.
mortality in hereditary antithrombin-iii deficiency--1830 to 1989 to determine whether antithrombin-iii (at-iii) deficiency leads to an excess mortality, we studied 171 individuals from ten families with a proven hereditary deficiency. 73 were classified as certainly deficient either by direct measurement of at-iii concentration or by mendelian inheritance patterns. 98 individuals had a high probability (0.5) of deficiency. the 64 deaths recorded did not exceed those expected for the general population adjusted for age, sex, and calendar period. we suggest that a policy of prophylactic anticoagulation for patients with at-iii deficiency cannot be recommended.
intravenous nicardipine: an effective new agent for the treatment of severe hypertension. fifty-six patients with severe hypertension were treated with intravenous nicardipine for infusion periods of eight to twenty-four hours. each patient achieved satisfactory blood pressure control during the infusion period with a mean controlling dose of 7.85 mg/hr. the dose of nicardipine needed for sustained blood pressure control correlated with untreated diastolic blood pressure but not with untreated systolic blood pressure. these results demonstrate the potential usefulness of intravenous nicardipine for the treatment of severe hypertension requiring rapid lowering, and they suggest also that the severity of pretreatment diastolic hypertension might be a useful indicator of the dose required for blood pressure control.
macrophages as susceptible targets for hiv infection, persistent viral reservoirs in tissue, and key immunoregulatory cells that control levels of virus replication and extent of disease. although macrophages are major targets for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection in vivo, study of hiv-macrophage interactions in vitro was hindered because many laboratory strains of hiv would not replicate in macrophages, and because survival of macrophages in culture was poor. addition of purified macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf) to cultured macrophages markedly improves their survival, but does not induce proliferation. hiv isolates that replicate in macrophages will also replicate in lymphocytes; however, isolates adapted to lymphoid cells (such as hiv-htlviiib) will not replicate in macrophages. the envelope gene appears to be a major determinant of the cell tropism of viral isolates. t-cell grown virus stocks synthesize abundant gp120, while virus grown in macrophages contains relatively much less gp120. electron microscopy of virions from macrophages shows them to be depleted of gp120 surface "spikes." recombination studies show that the portion of the genome coding for the envelope glycoprotein appears to determine cell tropism. lastly, rscd4 neutralized macrophage-tropic isolates less efficiently than t-cell tropic isolates. hiv replication in macrophages is partially under the control of cellular factors, although these have been less well characterized than they have in lymphocytes.
high or low hepaticojejunostomy for bile duct strictures? the 19 patients who underwent 22 postoperative repairs of bile duct stricture in our institution between 1973 and 1984 were evaluated to assess whether the recognition of the tenuous blood supply of the supraduodenal bile duct in 1979 had improved the results thereafter. thirteen of these 22 operations followed a previous biliary tract repair; in 10 of the operations a low anastomosis had been performed without taking blood supply into account. follow-up was complete and ranged from 5 to 15 years. there were no operative deaths and minimal morbidity. there were three deaths at a later time. five of the 11 patients treated by surgery to 1979 had a clinically unsatisfactory result: recurrent strictures developed in all five patients. all but one of the eight patients receiving a high hepaticojejunostomy from 1980 had a clinically satisfactory result with no recurrent strictures. the one exception was the patient who had a second repair with separate high right and left hepatic duct anastomoses and who has ongoing symptoms from preexisting secondary sclerosing cholangitis. the results in the five high repairs performed for low strictures were particularly striking: all five were asymptomatic. this study lends support to the hypothesis of an ischemic basis for biliary strictures and to the recommendation that strictures be repaired with a high hepaticojejunostomy.
pathophysiology of sciatica. the exact pathophysiologic mechanisms behind sciatica are incompletely known; however, compression of spinal nerve roots is known to be correlated to both pain and neural dysfunction in a segmental distribution of that specific nerve root. compression per se may impair the transport of nutrients to the nerve tissue in such a way that affects the nerve root function. there also might be a local affect on nerve roots or root sleeves by substances leaking from the degenerated intervertebral discs.
cotton-wool spots and retinal light sensitivity in diabetic retinopathy. in 14 eyes of 14 patients with diabetic retinopathy the light sensitivity of retinal cotton-wool spots was studied by computerised perimetry, and the visual field data were accurately correlated with the corresponding morphology as seen on fundus photographs and fluorescein angiograms. in 12 of the eyes the examinations were repeated within one year in order to follow changes in retinal light sensitivity during the evolution of the lesions. retinal cotton-wool spots were in all eyes associated with localised non-arcuate scotomata in the visual field. in four eyes the cotton-wool spots disappeared within three months of the first examination, and in two of these cases the corresponding scotomata disappeared together with the morphological lesions. in eight eyes the cotton-wool spots (and the corresponding scotomata) had not resolved one year after the first examination. the mean blood pressure showed no significant difference between the patients in whom the lesions resolved within three months and the patients in whom the lesions persisted longer.
primary central nervous system lymphoma as a secondary malignancy. primary central nervous system lymphoma (pcnsl) is a rare neoplasm, but it is occurring with increased frequency even among apparently immunocompetent patients. although secondary malignancies frequently involve the lymphoreticular system, pcnsl has been reported as a second neoplasm only once previously. seven patients are discussed who developed pcnsl after successful treatment for a prior neoplasm. the original cancer was colon (one), breast (one), thyroid (one), hodgkin's disease (two), and non-hodgkin's lymphoma (two). patients with systemic non-hodgkin's lymphoma were thought to have a separate cerebral lymphoma on the basis of a prolonged disease-free interval from their systemic lymphoma, and the absence of systemic disease, when pcnsl was diagnosed and through subsequent follow-up. the pcnsl developed a median of 10 years after the diagnosis of the first tumor and 6 years after the last evidence of systemic disease. the diagnosis of pcnsl was often delayed because of confusion with brain metastases, and initial shrinkage or disappearance of the lesion after corticosteroids. formation of pcnsl may be a consequence of treatment for the first malignancy, reflect an unidentified inherent predisposition to neoplastic transformation, or result from the changing epidemiology of pcnsl in the general population. these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive, and a single hypothesis cannot account for all these cases.
diagnostic efficiency of troponin t measurements in acute myocardial infarction background. the present study was designed to evaluate the efficiency of a newly developed troponin t enzyme immunoassay for the detection of acute myocardial infarction. methods and results. the study comprised 388 patients admitted with chest pain and suspected myocardial infarction and 101 patients with skeletal muscle damage and additional suspected myocardial cell damage. troponin t was elevated to more than twice the analytical sensitivity of the assay (0.5 microgram/l) in all patients with non-q wave (range, 1.2-5 micrograms/l) and q wave infarction (range, 3-220 micrograms/l). troponin t appeared in serum as early as 3 hours after onset of pain in 50% of the patients and remained elevated in all patients for more than 130 hours, revealing release kinetics of both free cytosolic and structurally bound molecules. the diagnostic efficiency of troponin t was superior to that of creatine kinase-mb (98% versus 97%) and remained at 98% until 5.5 days after admission, if patients with unstable angina were excluded from analysis. in the 79 patients with unstable angina, troponin t was elevated (range, 0.55-3.1 micrograms/l) in at least one blood sample from each of 37 patients (56%). circulating troponin t was correlated to the presence of reversible st segment or t wave changes on the electrocardiogram (p less than 0.005) and to the frequency of in-hospital complications. in the 101 patients with skeletal muscle damage and suspected additional cardiac muscle damage, troponin t was the most useful test; its efficiency was 89% or 94% (depending on the discriminator value used) as compared with 63% for creatine kinase-mb. conclusions. thus, the data of the study indicate that the newly developed troponin t test improves the efficiency of serodiagnostic tools for the detection of myocardial cell necrosis as compared with conventionally used cardiac enzymes.
rectal mucosal dysplasia in crohn's disease. serial sections of 812 rectal biopsy specimens from 356 crohn's disease patients were analysed for mucosal epithelial dysplasia. dysplasia was found in 18 patients (5%), with four showing dysplasia on repeat biopsy specimen. in these 22 biopsy specimens the dysplasia was mild in 13, moderate in nine, and severe in none. subsequently, three patients (17%) developed neoplasms including carcinoma in two and an adenomatous polyp in one. in colectomy specimens which showed dysplasia, significantly more dysplastic changes were found in seven patients who underwent colonic resection than in 10 others who underwent operation but had no prior dysplasia (p less than 0.001). thirteen patients still have their rectum in situ and remain at risk of developing colonic cancer. four carcinomas developed in patients with crohn's disease who did not have dysplasia on rectal biopsy specimen.
puppet-like syndrome of angelman: a pathologic and neurochemical study. we present the first pathologic descriptions of the puppet-like syndrome of angelman based on autopsy studies of a 21-year-old woman. the noteworthy findings were a small brain with mild cerebral atrophy but normal gyral development. there was marked cerebellar atrophy with loss of purkinje and granule cells and extensive bergmann's gliosis. study of dendrite morphology using golgi impregnations of the visual cortex revealed a prominent decrease in dendritic arborization of layer 3 and layer 5 pyramidal neurons. quantitative golgi analysis also revealed a significant decrease in the numbers of dendritic spines in apical layer 3 dendrites and both apical and basal layer 5 dendrites. neurochemical studies of frozen brain tissue demonstrated markedly reduced gamma-aminobutyric acid content in the cerebellar cortex, as well as elevated glutamate content in the frontal and occipital cortices. although there are no definite morphologic correlates of many of the clinical signs, the pronounced dendritic pathology and neurochemical abnormalities in cerebral cortex may provide a physiologic basis for mental retardation.
malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli. report of a case and review of the literature. juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change. the authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis. juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years. he underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years. at age 12, he underwent a proctectomy and a swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump. at age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp.
contribution of calmodulin and protein kinase c to renin release in spontaneously hypertensive rats. this study was designed to evaluate the contribution of calmodulin and protein kinase c to renin release from isolated glomeruli of spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr, okamoto and aoki). male 7-week-old shr and age-matched control wistar-kyoto rats (wky) were used in this study. isolated glomeruli were sealed in the superfusion chamber and perfused with krebs-ringer solution at a constant flow of 0.3 ml/min. renin release was increased by calmodulin inhibitor, w-7, and protein kinase c inhibitor, h-7, in both shr and wky. shr showed higher maximal levels of renin release by w-7 and lower maximal levels by h-7 compared to wky. these results indicate that calmodulin and protein kinase c play inhibitory roles in renin release from juxtaglomerular cells. the calmodulin-mediated suppression mechanism in renin release appears to be augmented in the shr, whereas the protein kinase c-mediated system is attenuated.
neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies: a link between primary sclerosing cholangitis and ulcerative colitis. whether serum autoantibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic components, previously found in ulcerative colitis, are also associated with primary sclerosing cholangitis was determined. in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin g neutrophil antibodies, neutrophil binding by primary sclerosing cholangitis sera was significantly greater than that for primary biliary cirrhosis, chronic hepatitis b, and chronic non-a, non-b hepatitis. similar differences were seen when sera from patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis without evidence for ulcerative colitis were compared with sera from liver disease controls. perinuclear immunofluorescence staining of neutrophils was exhibited by the majority of ulcerative colitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis without ulcerative colitis sera. the combination of elevated immunoglobulin g neutrophil antibodies and a perinuclear pattern was 65% sensitive and 100% specific for primary sclerosing cholangitis compared with the liver disease control sera. it is concluded that neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies in ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosing cholangitis may be markers of shared underlying immunopathogenic mechanisms. identification of the target antigen(s) may facilitate understanding of the underlying immune response and development of an improved disease marker assay.
different prevalence and degree of nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity between seasonal and perennial rhinitis. from the patients observed at our respiratory allergology service, we selected patients with rhinitis only, without any past or present respiratory symptoms, for our study. all these patients had normal pulmonary function, were administered carbachol or methacholine bronchial challenges, and had one or more skin reactions to perennial or seasonal allergens. patients were allocated to three groups: group a, patients with seasonal rhinitis who were administered nonspecific challenges out of season; group b, patients with seasonal rhinitis tested during the season; and group c, patients with perennial rhinitis. the three groups were divided into subgroups according to the duration in years of rhinitis and to the degree of nonspecific bronchial responsiveness. the distribution into four groups of reactivity, arbitrarily defined as normal and mildly, moderately, and severely increased reactivity, was as follows: group a, 124, 21, 30, 22; group b, 75, 15, 7, and 21: and group c, 69, 17, 39, and 72, respectively. the patients of group c (perennial rhinitis) demonstrated a distribution significantly (p less than 0.001) different from subjects with seasonal rhinitis, both group a and group b. our results are consistent with the hypothesis that perennial rhinitis is much more important than seasonal rhinitis as a risk factor for developing nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
specific binding sites for insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma of women with polycystic ovarian disease and stromal hyperthecosis. women with polycystic ovarian disease and hyperthecosis have hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. it is possible that insulin in supraphysiologic concentration exerts its steroidogenic action on ovarian stromal cells through insulin-like growth factor i receptors. we undertook this study to investigate whether the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis has specific binding sites for insulin or insulin-like growth factor i. ovarian stromal tissue was obtained from seven women with normal ovulatory cycles and from five women with hyperthecosis of the ovaries. binding studies with insulin tagged with iodine 125 and insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 revealed specific binding sites both for insulin and insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma. the binding of insulin tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis (3.4% +/- 1.1% (+/- se) per 100 micrograms protein) was significantly (p less than 0.04) lower than that observed in normal premenopausal women (8.3% +/- 1.6% per 100 micrograms protein). by contrast, the specific binding of insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis (7.1% +/- 1.7% per 100 micrograms protein) was higher than that observed in the ovarian stroma from normal women (4.5% +/- 1.7% per 100 micrograms protein), although the difference was not statistically significant. the affinity constants for these high-affinity receptors were similar (1.2 to 3.6 x 10(9) l/mol) in the two groups of women. these results indicate that (1) the ovarian stroma has specific binding sites both for insulin and for insulin-like growth factor i; (2) in women with hyperthecosis, the ovarian stroma has decreased binding sites for insulin but has normal concentrations of insulin-like growth factor i receptors; and (3) in women with hyperthecosis, stimulation of ovarian androgen synthesis by insulin may be mediated through the insulin-like growth factor i receptors.
effect of complement and arachidonic acid pathway inhibition on white blood cell count and deposition on vascular grafts. to determine the role of complement and arachidonic acid metabolites in the decrease in peripheral white blood cell count (pwbc) observed with graft implantation, dacron aortic grafts were implanted in control rabbits (group i, n = 13), or rabbits pretreated with cobra venom factor (80 u/kg) to deplete complement (group ii, n = 13), indomethacin (2.5 mg/kg) to inhibit cyclooxygenase (group iii, n = 7), or diethylcarbamazine (dec, 90 mg/kg) to inhibit leukotriene synthesis (group iv, n = 7). pwbc was measured 15 min and 1 hr after graft implantation. after graft removal, the wbc count on grafts (gwbc) was determined by light microscopy (lm) and scanning electron microscopy (sem). one hr after graft implantation, pwbc decreased significantly in groups i-iv to 46%, 52%, 40%, and 45% of preoperative pwbc, respectively. there was no significant difference among the groups. lm revealed gwbc per 63x field of 8.0, 12.3, 5.8, and 6.8 in groups i-iv, respectively. similarly, sem showed gwbc per 2000x field of 2.5, 5.6, 0.7, and 1.5 in groups i-iv, respectively. sem gwbc was significantly greater in group ii than i (p less than 0.01), and significantly less in group iii than i (p less than 0.05). results suggested that complement and arachidonic acid pathways alone do not affect the fall in pwbc, but may influence gwbc.
cardiac transplantation in female emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy. a young woman with humeroperoneal muscular dystrophy and contractures received a heart transplant for a severe dilated cardiomyopathy. cardiac histopathology consisted of myocyte hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis, and nuclear hyperchromaticity without mitochondrial abnormalities. myopathy and heart disease were not clinically evident in her family, although three relatives had unexplained shortened achilles tendons without weakness. tendon contractures may be a partial expression of this myopathic disorder, suggesting an autosomal dominant inheritance with variable penetrance. a muscular dystrophy clinically similar to that of the emery-dreifuss (edmd) type can thus occur in women. rather than the cardiac arrhythmias typical of edmd, a dilated cardiomyopathy may occur and present with severe congestive heart failure. this is the first report of cardiac transplantation in such a case.
a possible role for antiphospholipid antibodies in acquired cardiac valve deformity. we studied the frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies (apl) in patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement, and present the results in the context of the pathology of the valve lesions. forty-eight consecutive patients undergoing valve replacement were studied. of the whole group, 15 (31%) had antibody levels greater than 2 sd above the mean for a control group of healthy persons and 11 (23%) had a level of greater than 3 sd. there was an increased frequency of elevated antibody levels in patients with valves showing fibrocalcific change and a significant association between apl and valve thrombus. the possible role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of the valve lesions is discussed.
chronic calcium channel blockade prevents the progression of myocardial contractile and electrical dysfunction in the cardiomyopathic syrian hamster. the programmed onset of myocardial dysfunction and its progression to congestive heart failure in the cardiomyopathic syrian hamster is hallmarked by alterations in myocellular calcium regulation. to determine whether calcium channel blockade is effective in halting the progressive depression of myocardial contractile performance in this animal model of congestive heart failure, oral verapamil therapy was instituted at 50 days of age, and treatment continued for various durations until the time of study at either 150 or 250 days of age. left ventricular papillary muscle isometric and isotonic performance, as well as transmembrane electrical characteristics, was depressed in diseased hamsters at 150 days of age and deteriorated further by 250 days of age. these changes were evidenced by prolongation of contraction duration, a marked depression in the load-velocity relation, and a significant prolongation in the repolarization phase of the transmembrane action potential. myocardial functional and electrical alterations associated with the progression of life in myopathic hamsters were completely halted by verapamil therapy that was continuous from 50 days after birth until death by diastolic arrest, at 150 or 250 days of age. however, premature termination of verapamil treatment before death resulted in a progressive renewal of the functional and electrical alterations for the duration of drug termination. it is concluded that the pathological changes seen during the lifetime of the cardiomyopathic hamster can be prevented by continuous calcium channel blockade and that intermediate prevention can be attained by protracted verapamil therapy. thus, chronic verapamil therapy may be a useful adjunct in the prevention of human congestive heart failure of similar etiology.
gastric lymphoma. from 1976 to 1988, 35 patients were treated for stage ie and stage iie primary gastric lymphoma (non-hodgkin's). pain and weight loss were the predominant symptoms, physical findings were usually absent and 20 per cent of the patients were anemic. the results of gastrointestinal contrast studies suggested a malignant condition in 75 per cent, but findings were not specific for lymphoma. endoscopic findings suggested a malignant process in 85 per cent, but the yield for biopsy was only 60 per cent. of 28 patients undergoing operative exploration, 75 per cent were resectable. nine patients received postresectional adjuvant therapy. five had chemotherapy; three, radiotherapy, and one patient, a combination of the two. primary nonsurgical treatment consisted of chemotherapy in 11, radiotherapy in two and combined therapy in one instance. three of five recurrences were successfully treated. the five year survival rate was 65 per cent without significant differences between surgical and nonsurgical regimens. those with tumors smaller than 7 centimeters had a five year survival rate of 100 per cent versus 50 per cent for larger neoplasms. patients more than 60 years of age appeared to have a more favorable course after surgical therapy compared with those who had nonsurgical treatment. we concluded that endoscopy is a most useful, although limited diagnostic study and since no treatment program is obviously superior, the choice of therapy can be individualized accordingly.
an inconsistent relationship between insulin and blood pressure in three pacific island populations. the evidence linking insulin to blood pressure is controversial, and results for groups similarly categorized by body mass, glucose tolerance and hypertensive status are often contradictory. we have investigated the relationship in three population-based samples of micronesian (nauru), polynesian (western samoa) and melanesian (new caledonia) pacific islanders, who are known to be susceptible to obesity, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm), hyperinsulinaemia and hypertension. after controlling for age and body mass index (bmi), mean fasting and 2-hr (post 75 g glucose) insulin levels were not significantly different between hypertensive and non-hypertensive subjects, in any population or glucose tolerance sub-group, excepting 2-hr insulin in new caledonians with normal glucose tolerance. similarly, there were no strong trends for a higher prevalence of hypertension amongst those with insulin levels in the upper quartile of the distribution of each population, although it was apparent in some bmi/glucose tolerance sub-groups of two populations. multiple linear regression analyses also showed an inconsistent and where present, weak, independent association between insulin and blood pressure in models predicting both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. we therefore conclude that the hypothesis implicating insulin as a major determinant of blood pressure and as the pathophysiological link between obesity, niddm and hypertension is not strongly supported either by the literature or the present data.
identification of pre- and postcentral gyri on ct and mr images on the basis of the medullary pattern of cerebral white matter. the authors illustrate a new method to identify the pre- and postcentral gyri on computed tomographic (ct) and magnetic resonance (mr) images of the brain on the basis of the pattern of the medullary branches of the cerebral white matter. the most commonly used method to identify the gyri depends on recognition of the central sulcus by surface arrangement of the sulci. the two methods were compared by analysis of ct images of 104 subjects who had normal findings (age range, newborn to 60 years; 57 males and 47 females). the usefulness of the new method was also determined in angiographic studies of nine patients with space-occupying lesions. the method is especially helpful for identification of gyri on the lower level of the centrum semiovale and if space-occupying lesions are present that may result in a blurred depiction of sulci. since mr imaging depicts the medullary branches more clearly than does ct, this new method should facilitate identification of the gyri with either modality.
polypoid melanoma: a virulent variant of nodular melanoma. report of three cases and literature review. we report the cases of three patients with polypoid melanoma. in no case was there microscopic evidence of melanoma cell invasion below the papillary dermis. in the polypoid variant of nodular melanoma, melanoma cells accumulate in large volume above the skin's surface. this increase in tumor volume encourages dislodgment of melanoma cells that are carried to superficial lymphatic vessels without invading the reticular dermis; this feature differentiates polypoid melanoma from the nonpolypoid nodular variant. although polypoid melanoma is considered the most malignant form of melanoma, our findings, albeit limited to three cases, suggest that early diagnosis and prompt surgical excision may provide a favorable 5-year survival rate.
alzheimer's disease and related disorders in state mental hospitals: data from a nationwide survey. notwithstanding three decades of transferring of the elderly to nursing homes, geriatric patients continue to reside in state mental hospitals. many of these patients, perhaps one-third or more, are thought to suffer from alzheimer's disease and related disorders (adrd). this study reports data from a nationwide survey of state hospitals that provides an exploratory look at the adrd patients currently served in state hospitals. admission trends, reasons for admission, and sources of referral are described. civil commitment of nursing home patients with dementing illnesses and the place of the state hospital in the continuum of care for adrd patients are discussed.
the role of adrenalectomy in cushing's syndrome. forty-four patients with cushing's syndrome were treated by adrenalectomy between 1975 and 1989. twenty patients had adrenal adenomas: 13 with obvious cushing's syndrome and 7 whose disease was subclinical, detected after evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass (es). twelve patients underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for cushing's disease after failed transsphenoidal explorations and pituitary irradiation. six patients had primary adrenal hyperplasia, five as manifestations of carney's complex. two others underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone from carcinoid tumors. four patients had adrenocortical carcinoma treated with transabdominal adrenalectomy. three are alive from 8 years to 5 months. there was one postoperative death (2.3%) caused by coagulopathy and multiple organ failure and three (7%) minor postoperative complications. follow-up showed good to excellent results in 95% of patients. it is concluded that adrenalectomy provides prompt relief from the severe morbidity of cushing's syndrome regardless of the cause. it is the treatment of choice for adrenal adenomas, carcinomas, primary hyperplasia, and selected patients with cushing's disease.
the surgical management of chronic parotitis. chronic parotitis is a disorder characterized by recurrent painful swelling of the gland with purulent sialorrhea. occasionally, the condition fails to respond to medical management and definitive surgical therapy is necessary. sialolithiasis is the usual etiology in cases of parotitis, although occasionally severe recurrent parotid infections are superimposed on underlying sjogren's disease. total parotidectomy with facial nerve dissection has been used in such cases in our department and has proved to be an excellent way to manage this disease. a summary of our results indicate that the recurring infections were eradicated and that the complication rate is tolerable, considering the magnitude of the problem. we feel that it is better to use surgical management early rather than wait for the formation of fistulae or abscesses.
the response of human peritoneal macrophages to stimulation with bacteria isolated from episodes of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis-related peritonitis. the metabolism of arachidonic acid, by isolated peritoneal macrophages in response to stimulation with microorganisms isolated from continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) patients, is not specific to the individual strain but is determined by species. isolates of staphylococcus aureus (n = 7) and staphylococcus epidermidis (n = 13) produced a significant increase in leukotriene b4 generation by peritoneal macrophages compared with unstimulated cells (p less than .001). the coincubation of peritoneal macrophages with gram-negative organisms (n = 3), however, did not result in an increase in leukotriene b4 synthesis. in contrast, all the organisms tested significantly inhibited the formation of prostaglandin e2 and thromboxane b2 but the degree of inhibition was species dependent. the above results were reproduced using bacteria-free supernatants, indicating that the interaction was dependent on a secreted bacterial product. thus in response to certain bacterial species, the recruitment of neutrophils may be facilitated by the generation of leukotriene b4 from peritoneal macrophages. in addition, the reduction in synthesis of prostaglandin e2 may remove a regulatory effect that this metabolite has on the immune response.
tropical neuromyelopathies and retroviruses: a review. debilitating disorders of the nervous system have a relatively high prevalence in the tropics, a geographic region that is often deficient in specialists in the fields of neurology and epidemiology. during world war ii, attention was called to a possible nutritional origin for most of these diseases. recently, however, human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i), formerly linked only to a rare form of leukemia (adult t cell leukemia), has been associated with a spastic paraplegia observed mostly in tropical areas and referred to as tropical spastic paraparesis. this entity is also observed in nontropical areas endemic for htlv-i, including japan, south america, and the southern united states. viruses of the htlv family are being associated increasingly with pathology in humans. the pathogenesis of htlv-i-associated tropical spastic paraparesis remains to be understood. however, future research is expected to favor a multidisciplinary approach, with exciting potential insights derived from the fields of neurology, immunology, and infectious diseases. the aim of this review is to summarize contemporary research related to the viral etiology of this clinical entity.
recombinant epstein-barr virus with small rna (eber) genes deleted transforms lymphocytes and replicates in vitro. strains of epstein-barr virus (ebv) with deletions of the small rna (eber) genes were made by homologous recombination using the ebv p3hr-1 strain, which has undergone deletion of the essential transforming gene that encodes the ebv nuclear antigen, ebna-2, and a dna fragment that was wild type at the ebna-2 locus but from which the eber genes had been deleted. even though the eber and ebna-2 genes are separated by 40 kilobases, selection for transforming p3hr-1 recombinants that required a restored ebna-2 gene resulted in 20% cotransfer of the eber deletion. eber-deleted recombinants transformed primary b lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines (lcls), which were indistinguishable form lcls transformed by wild-type ebv in their proliferation, in latency-associated ebv gene expression, and in their permissiveness for ebv replication cycle gene expression. eber-deleted virus from infected lcl clones could infect and growth-transform primary b lymphocytes. these procedures should be applicable to the construction of other ebv recombinants within 40 kilobases of the ebna-2 gene. the eber-deleted ebv recombinants should be useful in further evaluating the role of ebers in ebv infection.
prediction of outcome by prenatal doppler analysis in a patient with aortic stenosis. stenosis of the aortic valve (pressure drop 50 mm hg) was diagnosed prenatally by doppler echocardiography in a 33 week old fetus. measurement of time-velocity integrals through the tricuspid and mitral valves indicated a significantly higher flow in the right heart. the pressure drop across the aortic valve in the 3 hour old infant was 80 mm hg. the findings in this patient suggest that the usually accepted theory that prenatally the ventricles function in parallel should take into account the chronology of filling and ejection. in this patient the ability of a ventricle to generate a prenatal transvalvar pressure gradient was evidence that the size, compliance, and contractility of the ventricle were sufficient to maintain good function.
postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst. case report. a large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man. the cyst wall, histologically composed of mature bone tissue, was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte- or fibroblast-like cells on the inside. the ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation.
education and epilepsy: assessment and remediation. learning difficulties in children with epilepsy may be caused by brain damage and should be investigated. in many cases, however, seizures and/or electroencephalographic (eeg) findings are the only signs of pathology. frequency and type of seizures may be determining factors that should, if necessary, be evaluated by long-term eeg monitoring, preferably during school performance or in conjunction with neuropsychological assessment. this may prove that subclinical epileptiform discharges in the eeg can adversely affect the child's performance. secondary psychological problems in epilepsy patients, combined with side effects of antiepileptic drugs, may cause or heighten learning problems. prophylactic control of seizures with one appropriate drug may alleviate learning problems. computerized neuropsychological testing with simultaneous eeg recording may reveal the influence of epileptiform discharges on cognitive function and also help to evaluate the effects of antiepileptic drugs. objective assessment of subclinical epileptiform activity makes it easier to treat the pathology identified by the eeg with optimal dosage of the most appropriate drug. a balance is required because epileptiform discharges and even occasional seizures may be less disabling than side effects from large doses of several drugs. information to the school and the parents concerning the patient's abilities and limitations may be as important as seizure control. specialized teaching should be started early, when necessary, with the patient integrated into a normal school if possible. however, good functioning in a special school is preferable to marginal functioning in a normal school.
intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses. a cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days. patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmhg of atmospheric pressure. after recovery of activity, pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmhg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time. distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site (p less than 0.001). two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmhg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmhg; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmhg. four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmhg and a peak of 45 mmhg. each contraction persisted for 15-20 min. intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence.
simultaneous operative repair of multilevel lower extremity occlusive disease. sixty-two patients (39 men (63%), 23 women (27%), mean age 68 years) with multilevel lower extremity arterial occlusive disease underwent simultaneous inflow and outflow operative arterial repair consisting of aortofemoral bypass in 22 (35%), axillofemoral bypass in 17 (28%), femorofemoral bypass in 15 (24%), iliac endarterectomy in 7 (11%), and unilateral aortoiliac bypass in 1 (2%), combined with 69 outflow procedures (unilateral in 55 patients, 89%), including above-knee femoropopliteal in 12 (17%), below-knee femoropopliteal in 35 (51%), femoroinfrapopliteal in 20 (29%), popliteal tibial in 1 (1%), and femoropedal bypass in 1 (1%). multiple criteria were used to identify patients with multilevel disease likely to benefit from multilevel procedures. the operations were performed by two operating teams in a median time of 240 minutes. prosthetic grafts were used for eight (13%) distal bypasses, the remainder were autogenous vein. there was one operative death (1.8%). the mortality rate, morbidity rate, and operative time were not significantly different from a group of patients who underwent concurrent, isolated inflow operations (aortofemoral, axillobifemoral, femorofemoral bypass or iliac endarterectomy). mean follow-up was 14.9 months (range, 0 to 120). the life-table primary patency for the inflow procedures was 92.6% at 24 months, the outflow was 94.9% at 24 months. cumulative limb salvage was 90.9% at 48-month follow-up. all patients with claudication were relieved of their symptoms. we conclude that complete correction of multilevel disease can be accomplished with operative time, morbidity rate, and patency equal to that of single level repair. multilevel procedures provide complete relief of symptoms in a higher percentage of patients than has been reported after single level repair.
alterations in brain electrical activity may indicate the onset of malignant hyperthermia in swine. the time course of changes in brain electrical activity during halothane anesthesia was examined in 12 malignant hyperthermia-susceptible (mhs) and 14 normal (nmhs) swine. power densities in selected frequency bands were calculated from the electroen-cephalogram (eeg). eeg and systemic variables were determined over a period of 60 min after starting halothane (1% inspired). malignant hyperthermia (mh) was triggered in all susceptible pigs. initial changes in the eeg during development of mh consisted of a decrease in total power and a shift to lower frequencies (delta-theta activity) in all animals. these eeg alterations were noted when there was an increase in heart rate, but other systemic variables were still normal. eeg changes in all mhs animals started at an arterial oxygen tension (pao2) greater than 90 mmhg and an arterial carbon dioxide tension (paco2) less than 50 mmhg. in 5 mhs animals eeg became isoelectric at a pao2 of 61-82 mmhg and a paco2 of 53-68 mmhg. mean arterial blood pressure at this time was 54-66 mmhg. to determine the effects of hypoxia on the eeg in 7 nmhs animals, oxygen was decreased over a period of 45-60 min to 7% inspired. in 7 other nmhs animals, hypercarbia was produced by admixture of carbon dioxide to the fresh gas supply to achieve incremental increases of paco2 to 110-120 mmhg. significant eeg changes during hypoxia comparable to those seen at the onset of mh were noted at a pao2 below 40 mmhg and during hypercarbia at a paco2 greater than 68 mmhg.
primary hepatic malignancy: the role of liver transplantation. between january 1982 and april 1989, 134 patients with a suspected liver neoplasm were referred to the liver unit, queen elizabeth hospital, birmingham. in 105 (78 per cent), a primary hepatic neoplasm was histologically confirmed, and 47 patients (45 per cent) proved to have primary hepatocellular carcinoma. twenty-nine orthotopic liver transplants were performed in 28 of these patients (27 per cent). twenty patients (71 per cent) survived 30 days or longer (median 11.5 months; range 2-87 months), of whom nine are currently alive. we retrospectively analysed our data to determine the influence of preoperative evaluation, histological type and staging on outcome. computed tomography proved to be superior to intraoperative assessment (86 versus 58 per cent) in diagnosing tumour positive nodes. patients with tumour negative lymphadenopathy had a better prognosis. postoperative stage i/ii had a median survival of 16 months (range 3-87 months) compared with 7.5 months (range 2-20 months) for stage iii. non-cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had the best prognosis; cholangiocellular carcinoma and cirrhotic patients with hepatocelluar carcinoma had the worst outcome with no survivors beyond 1 year. because of the advanced stage of disease at the time of presentation, the value of liver transplantation in primary liver cancer is limited. for those presenting with advanced disease confined to the liver (stage i/ii) in whom conventional hepatic resection is not possible, significant benefit can be achieved in selected cases.
chronic illness and depressive symptoms in the elderly: a population-based study. a cross-sectional study of the distribution of depressive symptoms and association between depressed mood and chronic illness was conducted in a geographically defined population in southern california of 1617 men and women aged 65 years and older. the prevalence of depressed mood for the total population was 5.2%. women exhibited a significantly higher mean depressive symptom score and a prevalence rate almost twice that of men. depressive symptoms were associated with several risk factors in both sexes, including age, self-perception of current health status, number of reported chronic diseases and medications and amount of exercise. however, the relationship between physical illness and depressive symptoms appeared to differ by sex with respect to the nature of the disease or disability and the type of medication currently used. these findings indicate that the risk of depression does not diminish with age among the elderly as other studies have suggested.
neuroendocrine design of the gut. the enteric nervous system (ens) can be thought of as the third component of the autonomic nervous system. it is a vast network of neurons widely dispersed throughout the gut. the ens is a dominant regulator of gut function through the action of peptide and non-peptide neurotransmitters. the most intensively studied roles of the ens have been the regulation of secretory processes, such as gastric acid secretion, and motility. it is clear, however, that the ens plays a broader role in the regulation of other gut functions, including mucosal defense, the gut immune response, and sphincter function. alterations in the regulation of gut function by the ens are likely or suspected in a number of conditions, including achalasia, hirschsprung's disease, inflammatory bowel disease, chagas' disease, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, biliary dyskinesia, tachygastria, and irritable bowel syndrome. improved knowledge of the pathophysiology of these troublesome conditions makes effective therapy more likely in the future.
accuracy and reproducibility of quantitative coronary arteriography using 6 and 8 french catheters with cine angiographic acquisition. to determine the suitability of 6 french catheters for quantitative coronary arteriography, the relative accuracy and reproducibility of one type of these catheters was compared to that obtained with standard 8 french catheters in 20 stenoses. duplicate injections with polyurethane 6 french catheters were obtained using hand and power injection technique with cineangiographic acquisition (four 6 french catheter injections total per stenosis). measurements of both percent diameter stenosis and absolute dimensions were compared to those obtained with hand injection and cine acquisition using 8 french catheters as a "gold standard." while the reproducibility of dimension determination with the 6 french catheter was generally similar to that obtained with the 8 french catheter (0.27 +/- 0.23 mm for absolute diameter and 8.1 +/- 7.4% for percent diameter stenosis), accuracy was significantly less for the 6 french catheter for measurement of absolute dimensions. thus, while apparently well suited for serial measurements of the same stenoses, 6 french catheters may not be as accurate in the determination of absolute artery dimensions as 8 french catheters.
essential fatty acid sufficiency does not preclude fat-soluble-vitamin deficiency in short-bowel syndrome. patients with extensive small-bowel resection may experience malabsorption and nutrient deficiencies. we evaluated the ability to absorb fat and fat-soluble vitamins in a short-gut patient. for 18 wk after stopping intravenous lipid, while consuming a low-lactose, low-fat diet, he exhibited no clinical manifestations of essential fatty acid deficiency (efad). serum 20:4n-6 (20:4 omega-6) and 18:2n-6 fatty acid concentrations were normal, whereas the concentration of 20:3n-9 remained less than or equal to 0.1% of total serum fatty acids. although serum vitamin a was normal, beta-carotene was undetectable despite oral supplementation. prothrombin time was elevated until parenteral vitamin k was given. this patient has fat absorption adequate to prevent efad but inadequate absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. in patients with short bowel, the requirements for parenteral lipids and fat-soluble vitamins should be determined independently.
persistence of mucosal gastric carcinomas for 8 and 6 years in two patients. a small gastric carcinoma was detected in a man, but he refused surgery. eight years later, he was readmitted for a check-up, and a partial gastrectomy was performed. pathologic examination revealed a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma restricted within the mucosa. in another man, an irregularly shaped, grossly depressed lesion indicating a malignancy was present at the gastric angle, and 6 years later he agreed to a partial gastrectomy. the lesion proved to be a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma confined to the mucosa. retrospective examination of the original biopsy specimen revealed a small area of adenocarcinoma, presumably overlooked at the initial examination. thus, some gastric carcinomas of the well-differentiated type can grow at an extremely slow rate, without extensive spread or invasion. findings in these cases contribute to knowledge of the biological behavior of gastric carcinomas.
islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices. report of a case and review of the literature. gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas. islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare. they present in a variety of ways. those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes. nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement. we present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation. we emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery.
mucocelelike tumor of the breast associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia or mucinous carcinoma. a clinicopathologic study of seven cases. we studied seven patients with mucocelelike tumors of the breast, known to be benign lesions that may be confused with mucinous carcinomas of the breast. all patients had a palpable mass. microscopically, the most striking feature was the cystic character of the lesion. the epithelial lining of the cysts was usually flat or cuboidal to low columnar, and mucin pools frequently appeared near the ruptured cysts. three mucocelelike tumors contained a microscopic focus of mucinous carcinoma. the other tumors had areas of atypical ductal hyperplasia containing abundant intraluminal mucinous materials. the mucin was composed predominantly of neutral and nonsulfated acid mucins whose character was identical to that of those in mucinous carcinoma. because all mucocelelike tumors in our series were associated with either atypical ductal hyperplasia or carcinoma and because some mucocelelike tumors may indeed be early mucinous carcinomas of the breast, we recommend examination of the entire specimen and careful clinical follow-up.
fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk protect suckling mice from heat-stabile enterotoxin of escherichia coli. human milk protects suckling mice from the diarrheagenic effects of heat-stabile enterotoxin of escherichia coli (st). to identify the human milk fraction responsible for this protection, pooled skimmed, deproteinated milk was passed through charcoal, whereupon lactose was separated from the oligosaccharides. the oligosaccharides contained st-protective activity; the lactose did not. the neutral, but not the acidic, fraction exhibited protective activity against st (22% vs. 57% mortality, respectively; p less than .001). the fucosylated, but not the nonfucosylated, subfractions of the neutral fraction contained the factor protective against st (35% vs. 50% mortality, respectively; p less than .05). an oligosaccharide isolation scheme based on different principles produced confirmatory results. the commercially available neutral fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk did not significantly protect the mice from the effects of st. thus, the protective factor against st seems to be a minor neutral fucosyloligosaccharide of human milk.
diagnostic utility of flumazenil in coma with suspected poisoning: a double blind, randomised controlled study objective--to assess the diagnostic value and safety of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in patients with coma of unclear origin with suspected poisoning. design--double blind, placebo controlled, randomised study. setting--intensive care unit at a major teaching hospital. patients--105 unconscious adults admitted consecutively with suspected drug overdosage during 18 months from a total of 362 cases of poisoning. exclusion criteria were pregnancy, epilepsy, obvious poisoning with drugs identified unequivocally from information from relatives or others as other than benzodiazepines, and coma score greater than 10 on a scale graded from 4 to 20. patients were allocated randomly to receive flumazenil (21 men and 32 women) or placebo (25 men and 27 women). interventions--intravenous injection of flumazenil (10 ml, 0.1 mg/ml) or placebo (10 ml vehicle alone) given double blind over three minutes. main outcome measures--serum and urine concentrations of benzodiazepines, antidepressants, and several other agents; blood gas tensions; standardised evaluation on admission and five minutes after the injection by means of coma scale score and urgent diagnostic or therapeutic interventions indicated according to the history and clinical examination; standardised interview after the injection to try to ascertain further information; and adverse reactions. results--benzodiazepines were found in the serum in 36 of the 53 patients in the flumazenil group and in 37 of the 52 who received placebo. the average coma scale score increased significantly after injection in the flumazenil group (6.4 v 12.1, p less than 0.001) but not in the placebo group. in the flumazenil group several interventions were rendered unnecessary by the injection: gastric lavage and urinary catheterisation (19 patients each), intubation (21), artificial ventilation and computed tomography of the brain (three patients each), blood culture and lumbar puncture (one patient each), and electroencephalography (two). in the placebo group the indications for these procedures did not change in any patient after injection. the 95% confidence interval for the difference in reduction of the frequency of indications for gastric lavage after injection between the two groups was 21% to 51%, that for intubation 25% to 55%, and that for urinary catheterisation 21% to 51%. in the flumazenil group 21 patients gave valuable information on their drug ingestion within 10 minutes after injection compared with only one in the placebo group (p less than 0.001). nine adverse reactions were recorded in the flumazenil group, eight of which were graded as mild and one severe. the safety of the antagonist was acceptable, even though 60% of the patients in the flumazenil group had multiple drug poisoning including benzodiazepine. no epileptic seizures or arrhythmias were recorded. conclusion--flumazenil is a valuable and safe differential diagnostic tool in unclear cases of multiple drug poisoning.
ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities. a total of 111 amniotic fluid samples, clear or blood stained, with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined. samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly, 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14. all 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14. these results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly, open spina bifida, encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. the procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory.
iliac artery stenosis and occlusion: preliminary results of treatment with gianturco expandable metallic stents. ten patients with atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion of the iliac artery were treated with gianturco expandable metallic stents. in the five cases of stenosis, only balloon dilation was performed prior to placement of stents. the five patients with occluded arteries were given intraarterial infusions of urokinase before balloon dilation and stent placement. clinical symptoms improved in all patients, and no technical failures or complications occurred. doppler ankle-brachial index studies were performed in nine cases, and in all nine cases the indexes improved after stent placement. during follow-up of 2-18 months (mean, 10.3 months), all arteries remained patent. follow-up angiograms showed slight intimal thickening and no restenosis. long-term follow-up and more clinical experience will be necessary to evaluate the efficacy of this stent. however, preliminary results suggest that the gianturco expandable metallic stent is of value in the treatment of arterial occlusive disease.
the absolute number of nerve cells in substantia nigra in normal subjects and in patients with parkinson's disease estimated with an unbiased stereological method. using an unbiased stereological technique, the total numbers of pigmented and non-pigmented neurons were estimated in the substantia nigra of seven patients with parkinson's disease and seven control patients. compared with the controls, in which the average total number of pigmented neurons was 550,000, the number of neurons was reduced by 66% in the patients. the average total number of non-pigmented neurons was 260,000 in controls and reduced by 24% in the patients. a significant correlation (r = 0.81) existed between the total numbers of pigmented and non-pigmented neurons in the controls, whereas a similar correlation (r = 0.72) in the patients fell just short of statistical significance. the stereological estimates made in this study are unbiased, in that they are independent of nerve cell size, section thickness and of dimensional changes in brain tissue induced by histological procedures. the stereological method is considerably more efficient than previous conventional methods.
colonoscopic screening of asymptomatic patients with a family history of colon cancer. the records of 201 asymptomatic patients who underwent colonoscopy based solely on a family history of colon cancer were reviewed. eighty-five patients (42 percent) had a total of 166 lesions. fifty-four (27 percent) patients of the screened population had neoplastic lesions, while 31 (15 percent) patients had nonneoplastic polyps. four carcinomas were found. twenty-five of the patients with polyps (29 percent) had no polyps distal to the splenic flexure; these proximal polyps (and two carcinomas) would have been missed on screening with fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy. nineteen of these 25 patients had polyps smaller than 0.5 cm, which likely would have been missed with contrast enemas. almost one half (47 percent) of all polyps discovered at screening colonoscopy were proximal to the descending colon. only one patient younger than 40 years old had adenomas. the yield of polyps and cancer in patients with familial risk indicates screening colonoscopy should be considered after age 40.
diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma. a clinicopathologic study and comparison with small lymphocytic lymphoma and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma. controversy has recently arisen as to whether diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma (ill) should be considered a low-grade or an intermediate-grade non-hodgkin's lymphoma for clinical purposes. therefore, the authors performed a clinicopathologic study to determine the biologic course of diffuse ill (40 cases) and compared it with small lymphocytic lymphoma (sll; 51 cases) and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma (dsccl; 14 cases). they found that patients with diffuse ill having pseudofollicular proliferation centers (pc) had a significantly longer median survival (84 months) than those without pc (46.5 months; p = 0.03). the median survival of patients with sll was 72 months, whereas those with dsccl had a median survival of only 18 months. based on these findings, the authors conclude that diffuse ill with pc should be included in the low-grade category of sll for clinical purposes, whereas diffuse ill without pc (true diffuse ill) should be considered an intermediate-grade non-hodgkin's lymphoma. true diffuse ill is similar to centrocytic lymphoma in the kiel classification and should be accorded a similar status in a modified working formulation.
temporal bone: three-dimensional ct. part ii. pathologic alterations. three-dimensional (3d) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic (ct) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities. the 3d ct reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional ct examination. while no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3d ct images, they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site. three-dimensional ct surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change.
toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and hepatic granulomas. a 71-yr-old male presented with a 2-month history of fever, malaise, and weight loss. physical exam revealed chorioretinitis. laboratory studies were notable for elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, aspartate transaminase, and alanine transaminase. immunoglobulin g antibody to toxoplasma gondii was positive to a dilution of 1:4096, whereas serologic studies for hepatitis a virus, hepatitis b virus, cytomegalovirus, epstein-barr virus, human immunodeficiency virus, brucella, and tularemia were negative. a percutaneous biopsy of the liver revealed hepatic granulomas. culture of the biopsy specimen was negative for growth of mycobacteria or fungi. spontaneous improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters occurred over a 4-month period.
a southwest oncology group study on the use of a human tumor cloning assay for predicting response in patients with ovarian cancer. a total of 211 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (168 with tumors refractory to prior chemotherapy and 43 with no prior chemotherapy) from 33 different southwest oncology group institutions had their tumors sampled and specimens shipped to two central laboratories for drug-sensitivity testing in a human tumor cloning assay. the 168 patients with a prior history of chemotherapy failure (median of four prior chemotherapeutic agents) were treated with the most effective agent(s) found in the cloning assay (23 patients), and those patients whose tumors did not form colonies in vitro or did not manifest any sensitivity to agent(s) were treated with a clinician's choice of agent(s) (101 patients). the remaining 44 of the 168 patients were not treated with chemotherapy because of deteriorating performance status or early death. the complete and partial response rate in patients treated according to assay results was 28% versus 11% for the patients treated according to clinician's choice (p = 0.03). there was no statistically significant difference in survival between the two options (6.25 versus 7 months, respectively). the 43 patients with no history of prior chemotherapy were all treated with standard combination chemotherapy, and their clinical response was compared with their in vitro sensitivity to the same agents. overall there was a 100% true-positive rate and 100% true-negative rate for the seven evaluable patients. from these data the authors conclude that use of the human tumor cloning assay may increase the response rate but not the survival for selected patients with advanced chemotherapy-refractory ovarian cancer. the study is weakened, however, by the many steps of patient selection necessitated by inadequate tumor colony formation in vitro and the inability to treat all patients (because of early death or a rapid decline in performance status). the assay does appear to be worthy of additional study for predicting response to combination chemotherapy in patients without a prior history of chemotherapy. finally the use of central chemosensitivity testing laboratories is feasible for testing in vitro predictive assays in a cooperative group setting.
post-traumatic epilepsy: cellular mechanisms and implications for treatment. epilepsy complicates severe head trauma. development of persistent seizures appears to correlate with the extent of trauma. although early reports suggested that prophylactic administration of antiepileptic drugs would prevent epileptogenesis, controlled studies have failed to corroborate this assumption. head trauma initiates a sequence of responses that includes altered blood flow and vasoregulation, disruption of the blood-brain barrier, increases in intracranial pressure, focal or diffuse ischemia, hemorrhage, inflammation, necrosis, and disruption of fiber tracts. the presence of an intracranial hematoma has a robust association with the development of post-traumatic epilepsy. extravasation of blood is followed by hemolysis and deposition of heme-containing compounds into the neuropil, initiating a sequence of univalent redox reactions and generating various free radical species, including superoxides, hydroxyl radicals, peroxides, and perferryl ions. free radicals initiate peroxidation reactions by hydrogen abstraction from methylene groups adjacent to double bonds of fatty acids and lipids within cellular membranes. intrinsic enzymatic mechanisms for control of free radical reactions include activation of catalase, peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase. steroids, proteins, and tocopherol also terminate peroxidative reactions. tocopherol and selenium are effective in preventing tissue injury initiated by ferrous chloride and heme compounds. treatment strategies for prevention or prophylaxis of post-traumatic epilepsy must await absolute knowledge of mechanisms. antioxidants and chelators may be useful, given the speculation that peroxidative reactions may be an important component of brain injury responses. however, potential treatment strategies involving gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) agonists, nmda receptor antagonists, and barbiturates need further scientific assessment.
muscle biopsy for diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility in two patients with severe exercise-induced myolysis. muscle biopsy and in vitro contracture tests for diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia (mh) were performed in two patients who had developed fever and severe myolysis during exercise. mh susceptibility was confirmed in one patient, but in the other, exercise-induced heat stroke proved to be the correct diagnosis. clinical presentation and epidemiology of exercise-induced mh and its relation to the heat stroke syndrome are discussed.
carcinoma of the breast: measurement and the management of treatment. ii. the regression of tumours. regression slopes fitted in 238 new cases of primary breast cancer submitted to a variety of managements are analysed. contrary to the original hypothesis that slopes would primarily reflect the composition of the tumours, the steepness of resorption slopes is found also to be treatment dependent. investigation of other factors influencing slopes is confined to radiotherapy where the expectation that the prescribed dose will be delivered is high. a large cumulative radiation effect before the start of shrinkage is associated with steeper slopes. a small correlation between slope and both menopausal status and starting diameter has been found, with premenopausal patients and small tumours producing the steepest slopes. the full range of slopes has been seen in postmenopausal patients. the data has been fitted to a linear model to evaluate the relative importance of these associations. illustrative cases support the hypothesis that resorption slopes are a product of tumour architecture and histology but we conclude that the maximum possible steepness of slope is not always achieved in the clinic, even when radiation is used. a combination of histological and regression data is therefore required to characterize a tumour for predictive purposes.
risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine: experience of the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii. risk monitoring for the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii, a multicenter, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors, posed unexpected challenges. concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias, including rearrest, in the lidoflazine group. to ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue, an in-depth review of data was conducted, outside experts were consulted, and additional data were collected. these efforts suggested possible causes for the problem. existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced, resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates. thus, through an efficient monitoring system, an important problem was uncovered and resolved, allowing the trial to be completed without major changes.
does the treatment of genital condylomata in men decrease the treatment failure rate of cervical dysplasia in the female sexual partner? three hundred ninety women treated for cervical dysplasia by local tissue ablation were studied retrospectively to test the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate is lower if the male sexual partner is also treated. in 190 cases, the male sexual partner was examined and treated successfully for genital condylomata. controls were 200 women treated during the same time period and closely matched to the study group regarding age, race, socioeconomic status, histologic grade of dysplasia, distribution of the lesions, and methods of therapy, but the male partner was neither examined nor treated. the treatment failure rate for women whose partners were also treated was not significantly different from that for women whose partners were not treated (6.8 versus 7.5%; p greater than .05), suggesting that treating genital condylomata in men does not affect the failure rate of cervical dysplasia in female sexual partners.
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology. a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy. these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms, fever, and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis. at the time of operation, a normal appendix was removed, and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted. the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient, and the patient remained asymptomatic. we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents. the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed.
standard and controlled-release levodopa/carbidopa in patients with fluctuating parkinson's disease on a protein redistribution diet. a preliminary report. ten patients with parkinson's disease (pd) with motor fluctuations that responded to a protein redistribution diet were studied. all 10 patients were receiving standard sinemet (levodopa/carbidopa). five randomly selected patients were changed from standard sinemet to a controlled-release form of sinemet. the other five patients continued to receive standard sinemet. to maintain the same degree of control of pd in the five patients switched to the controlled-release form of sinemet, the daily levodopa intake increased. while receiving optimal therapy (standard sinemet or controlled-release sinemet) and a protein redistribution diet, all 10 patients then underwent hourly videotaping and blood sampling (for plasma levodopa levels) during 2 consecutive days. videotapes were blindly reviewed for pd disability, dyskinesia, and the time required to walk a measured distance. comparing the two groups, standard sinemet with controlled-release sinemet, respectively, mean levodopa requirements were 505 and 1895 mg, plasma levodopa levels were 6.1 and 17.6 mumol/l, and abnormal involuntary movement scale scores were 14 and 26. their mean pd disability scores did not differ statistically or clinically. also no statistically significant differences were noted in either their mean walking times or their mean daily dose frequencies.
surgical voice restoration with the blom-singer prosthesis following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy and pharyngogastric anastomosis. surgical voice restoration using the blom-singer technique is a well-established procedure in patients who have undergone simple laryngectomy. operations for hypopharyngeal carcinoma are more extensive and require reconstruction using regional skin or myocutaneous flaps, or reanastomosis with colon, jejunum, or stomach. we report the use of the blom-singer prosthesis in four patients who had undergone pharyngogastric repair following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy and who had failed to achieve a satisfactory voice. all patients initially developed good speech using the prosthesis. two patients subsequently had their prostheses removed: one because of recurrent malignant disease and one because the procedure had not significantly altered the quality of the voice. the remaining two patients have continued to use the device at 2 and 5 years after insertion with good voice production.
cardioprotective effects of amlodipine on ischemia and reperfusion in two experimental models. the cardioprotective effect of amlodipine, a long-acting dihydropyridine derivative, was studied in 2 experimental models of ischemia and reperfusion. isolated and blood-perfused feline hearts were made globally ischemic for 60 minutes and then reperfused for 60 minutes. alterations of left ventricular developed pressure and compliance were monitored in both amlodipine-treated hearts and saline-treated control animals. changes in perfusion pressure indicated that amlodipine significantly reduced myocardial oxygen consumption and coronary vascular resistance. furthermore, a progressive increase in resting left ventricular diastolic pressure indicated that amlodipine, administered before the onset of global ischemia, attenuated the development of ischemic contracture. return of contractile function 60 minutes after reperfusion and maintenance of tissue concentrations of electrolytes were significantly better in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals. in intact canine hearts, regional myocardial ischemia was induced for 90 minutes, followed by 6 hours of reperfusion. although the hemodynamic variables and the size of the region of risk did not differ significantly between treated animals and control animals, the infarct size was significantly smaller in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals, and a gradual reduction in coronary blood flow was observed in the control group that was prevented in the amlodipine group. a comparison of these findings with those observed with oxygen radical scavengers also is discussed. a detailed report of these studies was published in the american journal of cardiology (1989;64:101i-116i). this review is included here to maintain continuity of the symposium for the convenience of the reader.
long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. a total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) of grades i to iii (hunt and hess classification) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography (ct)-visualized infarcts after sah and surgery. the administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made. of the 213 patients enrolled in the study, 58 were operated on early (within 72 hours after the bleed: days 0 to 3), 69 were operated on subacutely (between days 4 and 7), and 74 had late surgery (on day 8 or later). eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on. a follow-up examination with ct scanning, performed 1 to 3 years after the sah (mean 1.4 years), revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups. however, nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia (p = 0.01) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in the whole population (p = 0.05), especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission ct scan (p = 0.03).
risk of cardiovascular mortality in alcohol drinkers, ex-drinkers and nondrinkers. lower cardiovascular mortality rates in lighter drinkers (versus abstainers or heavier drinkers) in population studies have been substantially due to lower coronary artery disease (cad) mortality. controversy about this u-shaped curve focuses on whether alcohol protects against cad or, because of other traits, whether abstainers are at increased risk. inclusion of ex-drinkers among abstainers in some studies has led to speculation that this might be the trait increasing the risk of abstainers. this new prospective study among 123,840 persons with 1,002 cardiovascular (600 cad) deaths showed that ex-drinkers had higher cardiovascular and cad mortality risks than lifelong abstainers in unadjusted analyses, but not in analyses adjusted for age, gender, race, body mass index, marital status and education. use of alcohol was associated with higher risk of mortality from hypertension, hemorrhagic stroke and cardiomyopathy, but with lower risk from cad, occlusive stroke and nonspecific cardiovascular syndromes. subsets free of baseline cardiovascular or cad risk had u-shaped alcohol-cad curves similar to subsets with baseline risk. among ex-drinkers, maximal past intake and reasons for quitting (medical versus non-medical) were unrelated to cardiovascular or cad mortality. these data show that: (1) alcohol has disparate relations to cardiovascular conditions; (2) higher cardiovascular mortality rates among ex-drinkers are due to confounding traits related to past alcohol use; and (3) the u-shaped alcohol-cad relation is not due to selective abstinence by persons at higher risk. the findings indirectly support a protective effect of lighter drinking against cad.
insulin-like growth factor-i receptors in human hyperplastic prostate tissue: characterization, tissue localization, and their modulation by chronic treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog. insulin-like growth factor i (igf-i) receptors were characterized in membranes obtained from prostate tissue of patients affected by benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) before and after treatment with a gnrh agonist analog. binding of [125i]igf-i to membranes obtained from untreated patients was specific and time and temperature dependent. analysis of the binding data yielded two classes of binding sites, one of high affinity (kd, 10(-11) mol/l) and one of lower affinity (kd, 10(-9) mol/l). bph membrane preparations were affinity-cross linked to labeled igf-i, and then subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. analysis by autoradiography revealed one labeled protein with an apparent mr = 300k under nonreducing conditions and two labeled protein with mr = 270k and mr = 130k under reducing conditions. excess unlabeled igf-ii reduce both of them, whereas the same excess of igf-i completely abolished them. in membrane preparations of prostatic tissues from patients affected by bph and treated for 2 months with a gnrh agonist analog, the binding capacities of both binding sites were significantly higher than those of bph tissue from untreated patients, whereas binding affinities were unchanged. the igf-i receptor in bph prostate tissue of untreated patients was mainly localized in the basal layer of the epithelium, as demonstrated by immunohistochemical staining, whereas in the tissue from treated patients positive staining was found also in the glandular epithelium. these results demonstrate that: 1) specific binding sites for igf-i are present in prostatic tissue from patients with bph, 2) androgen deprivation increases their binding capacities and seems to modify their epithelial localization.
clinical diagnosis of binswanger's disease. to aid in the prospective study of binswanger's disease, a poorly understood form of vascular dementia, a standardised criteria for its antemortem diagnosis was proposed. these criteria include dementia, bilateral radiological abnormalities on computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri), and at least two of the following three clinical findings: a) a vascular risk factor or evidence of systemic vascular disease; b) evidence of focal cerebrovascular disease; and c) evidence of "subcortical" cerebral dysfunction. these criteria were validated in two ways. first, by retrospectively applying them to a series of 30 demented patients with various pathological diagnoses. second, by prospectively applying them to a series of 184 patients with clinically typical alzheimer's disease. the sensitivity and specificity of the criteria appear adequate for use in clinical research.
the effect of abdominal surgery on the serum concentration of the tumour-associated antigen ca 125. the ca 125 assay is used to monitor the course of disease in women with adenocarcinoma of the genital tract. we measured serum ca 125 levels longitudinally in three different groups of patients who had normal serum ca 125 levels (less than or equal to 16 u/ml) before extensive intraperitoneal abdominal surgery (group 1, second-look laparotomy in 28 women with ovarian cancer; group 2, radical hysterectomy in 42 patients with cervical cancer; group 3, 13 men and one woman who had aortic surgery for atherosclerotic occlusive disease or aneurysm formation). following surgery, rising serum ca 125 levels were observed in 69 out of the 84 patients (82%), irrespective of the primary diagnosis, type of operation or sex. the highest levels were found during the second week after the operation (range 3-336 u/ml) and decreased gradually thereafter, to become normal at 8 weeks after surgery. it was concluded that abdominal surgery interferes with the specificity of ca 125 as a tumour marker during the early postoperative period.
synchronous hodgkin's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia. our patient had stage iiiai hodgkin's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia. a slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease, spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia. it is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy. our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to hodgkin's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history.
use of leukocyte-depleted platelet concentrates for the prevention of refractoriness and primary hla alloimmunization: a prospective, randomized trial. compared with conventional transfusion regimes a strong reduction in hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions is obtained when both red blood cell concentrates (rbcs) and platelet concentrates (pcs) are depleted of leukocytes by filtration. because most of the leukocyte contamination is introduced by transfusion of rbcs, filtration of rbcs appears rational, but uncertainty exists regarding the degree of leukocyte-depletion of pcs needed for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness. we conducted a prospective trial and randomized patients with acute leukemia to receive leukocyte-depleted pcs prepared either by centrifugation (mean leukocyte count 35 x 10(6)/pc of 6 u) or by filtration (mean leukocyte count less than 5 x 10(6)/pc of 6 u). both groups received rbcs that were filtered after prior removal of the buffy coat. clinical refractoriness occurred in 46% (12 of 26) of the evaluable patients that were transfused with centrifuged pcs and only in 11% (3 of 27) in the filtered group (p less than .005). de novo anti-hla antibodies were detected in 42% (11 of 26) patients in the centrifuged group and only in 7% (2 of 27) of the patients receiving filtered pcs (p less than .004). in 8 of 11 alloimmunized patients in the centrifuged group antibodies were detected in the first 4 weeks of transfusion therapy while none of the patients in the filtered group became immunized against hla antigens during that period. we conclude that for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions from random donors, both rbcs and pcs have to be leukocyte-depleted by filtration.
analysis of the medtronic intact bioprosthetic valve. effects of "zero-pressure" fixation. the long-term performance of current-design porcine xenograft valves has not been satisfactory. these valves are generally fixed at "low pressures" of about 3 to 5 mm hg. the medtronic intact (medtronic, inc., minneapolis, minn.) valve is fixed at "zero pressure" and is proposed as a better alternative to existing xenograft valves. a mechanical analysis of this valve has been carried out to determine if the intact valve differs significantly from the low-pressure fixed xenograft. twelve circumferential strips of tissue 5 mm wide were cut from the leaflets of four clinical-grade intact valves. their stress/strain, stress relaxation, and flexural behavior were examined mechanically and histologically. the intact valve was more extensible than the low-pressure fixed xenograft (22% versus 12% strain, p less than 0.001), relaxed faster (p less than 0.001), and was more pliable than the xenograft (p less than 0.05). it did not, however, buckle less than did the low-pressure fixed xenograft during enforced bending, and it buckled significantly more than did fresh porcine aortic valve tissue (p less than 0.001). the intact valve also relaxed significantly more slowly than did the fresh tissue (p less than 0.05). its bending stiffness had a stronger dependence on leaflet thickness than the bending thickness of fresh tissue had (p less than 0.001) but a weaker dependence than the bending thickness of the low-pressure fixed xenograft material had (p less than 0.001). the intact valve demonstrated a very large variability in extensibility, bending stiffness, and buckling behavior, with little correlation between these parameters. some valves appeared to have wrinkled leaflets; others were likely fixed at different pressures. the shrinkage of the leaflet material at these low fixation pressures is likely important, since it can modify the elastic behavior of the valve cusps. overall, the intact valve had a more "natural" elastic behavior than had low-pressure fixed xenograft, and it should therefore experience lower stresses during normal valve function. it can be concluded that zero-pressure fixation does preserve many of the desirable stress-reducing properties of aortic valve tissue.
recurrent tension headache in adolescents treated with self-help relaxation training and a muscle relaxant drug. forty-eight adolescents suffering from recurrent tension headache participated in a controlled trial conducted in a high school setting. during the first treatment phase self-help relaxation training was compared with a waiting-list group. following this phase a pharmacological regimen consisting of a muscle relaxant (chlormezanone) and placebo was superimposed on relaxation therapy in a double-blind crossover design. each treatment phase encompassed a 5-week period. in addition to the evaluation of headache complaints, psychological distress among students was measured with respect to their experience of somatic complaints, depressive, anxiety and stress symptoms. although self-help relaxation training significantly decreased the severity and annoyance of adolescents' headache besides their somatic complaints, the clinical improvement of headache was modest. the addition of chlormezanone did not help those who were nonresponders to self-help relaxation training. finally, a set of pretreatment variables consisting of baseline headache severity and annoyance, experience of anxiety and daily life stress among adolescents could predict outcome of self-help relaxation therapy.
high dietary fiber and low saturated fat intake among oligomenorrheic undergraduates. numerous functional risk factors are associated with the occurrence of secondary amenorrhea in young women. less is known regarding factors associated with the more prevalent problem of oligomenorrhea. we have evaluated nutrient intake, body composition, perceived psychological stress, 24-hour urinary cortisol, and urinary c peptide (ucp) in 35 eumenorrheic, 11 mildly oligomenorrheic, and 10 oligomenorrheic nonathletic undergraduate women. nutrient intake was evaluated by a validated food frequency questionnaire. oligomenorrheic women were found to consume significantly more dietary fiber, crude fiber, and polyunsaturated fat, and significantly less saturated fat than their eumenorrheic classmates. oligomenorrheic women had significantly lower 24-hour ucp excretion than mildly oligomenorrheic women. the groups did not differ in any aspect of body composition, body weight, age of menarche, perceived psychological stress, or urinary cortisol excretion. the data suggest that higher intake of fiber and lower intake of saturated fat may be associated with oligomenorrhea among otherwise healthy undergraduate nonathletic women.
spinal accessory nerve palsy: an unusual complication of coronary artery bypass the neurologic complications of coronary artery bypass surgery have been well documented, with a reported incidence of 61% in one large study. most injuries to the peripheral nervous system involve the brachial plexus. we report the first case of a spinal accessory nerve lesion after coronary bypass surgery. the patient presented with progressive right shoulder weakness. electrodiagnostic studies revealed a partial lesion of the right spinal accessory nerve. physical therapy, including strengthening, range of motion, and electric stimulation to the right shoulder, was prescribed to assist recovery of strength and function. repeat electrodiagnostic studies confirmed nerve regeneration. prompt recognition of spinal accessory nerve damage after coronary bypass surgery is essential. early rehabilitation will improve the chances of a better functional outcome.
malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy. of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon, 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy (31 patients, group i) or by radical segmental resection (18 patients, group ii) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure. the operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group i and 11 per cent in group ii (not a statistically significant difference). however, substantial differences were found for major morbidity (6 versus 44 per cent in groups i and ii respectively; p less than 0.01) and mean length of hospital stay (17 days in group i versus 35 days in group ii; p less than 0.05). all three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma. six patients (19 per cent) in group i required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period. however, subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients. it is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results.
cineangiography of the heart in a single breath hold with a segmented turboflash sequence. six healthy volunteers and three patients with cardiac anomalies were studied in a comparison of segmented turboflash (fast low-angle shot) cine, a method of magnetic resonance imaging that permits an entire series of high-resolution cine images to be obtained in one breath hold, with standard cine. segmented turboflash uses a gradient-echo sequence designed for short imaging times in combination with a segmented data acquisition method. presaturation pulses were applied to eliminate the blood pool signal; the signal-to-noise ratio was assessed with a phantom. standard hardware and image reconstruction methods were used. the breath-hold images consistently showed reduced ghosting and blurring from respiration. because a very short echo time was used, segmented turboflash was relatively insensitive to dephasing caused by local field disturbances or flow. the authors conclude that, by reducing imaging times and eliminating respiratory artifact, segmented turboflash can be useful for performing cine studies of the heart and great vessels.
mental stress as a provocative test in patients with various clinical syndromes of coronary heart disease. to assess the prevalence of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia and investigate the pathogenetic mechanisms by which emotional stress may induce myocardial ischemia, we studied 372 patients with angina pectoris who underwent mental arithmetic and exercise stress testings. hyperventilation tests were also performed in 176 patients, and 340 patients underwent coronary arteriography. sixty-one patients showed significant st segment abnormalities during mental arithmetic and exercise stress testings (group 1). two hundred eleven patients had negative responses to mental stress but positive exercise tests (group 2), whereas both tests were negative in 100 patients (group 3). mental stress induced significant increases in heart rate and systolic blood pressure in the three groups of patients; however, group 1 patients had higher increases in rate-pressure product (mm hg x beats/min) than group 2 and group 3 patients (14,909 +/- 3,894 versus 12,985 +/- 2,900 versus 12,724 +/- 4,400 mm hg x beats/min, p less than 0.01). group 1 patients had shorter exercise durations than group 2 or group 3 (4.06 +/- 1.55 versus 7.65 +/- 3.07 versus 13.9 +/- 5.31 minutes, p less than 0.01), although rate-pressure products at peak exercise were similar in groups 1 and 2 (20,277 +/- 6,058 versus 20,768 +/- 3,864, p = ns) and significantly higher in group 3 (26,221 +/- 7,100/mm hg x beats/min, p less than 0.01).
blunt intestinal injury. keys to diagnosis and management. fifty-six patients with blunt intestinal injury seen during 39 months were reviewed for keys to diagnosis and treatment. motor vehicle accidents were involved in 80% of the cases and seat/lap belts were in use 69% of the time. blunt intestinal injury was the only abdominal injury in 70% of the cases. there were 42 perforations and 20 devascularizations; multiple injuries were common (27%). abdominal tenderness was present on admission in 43 of 44 patients in whom a reliable examination was possible. peritoneal lavage was positive in 13 (93%) of 14 patients. computed tomography was falsely negative in three of four instances in which it was used. perforations were most common in the upper and lower ends of the small bowel and in the sigmoid colon; devascularizations were most common in the distal ileum and sigmoid colon. resection/anastomosis was performed in 38% of small-bowel perforations and in all small-bowel devascularizations. resection/diversion was required in most colonic perforations (five of six patients) and devascularizations (four of six patients). there were five deaths (9%), none due to intestinal injury. there were seven complications related to intestinal injury. diagnostic delay occurred in two patients; both had resultant morbidity. blunt intestinal injury is associated with physical findings in conscious patients. peritoneal lavage should be used when tenderness cannot be evaluated. timely operative intervention minimizes morbidity and hospital stay.
advances in data assessment. application to the etiology of nausea reported during chemotherapy, concerns about significance testing, and opportunities in clinical trials. typical inferential statistical procedures, such as the t-test and analysis of variance, compare differences in mean values of variables. this approach can sometimes obscure rather than illuminate research data. here we present and discuss alternative data analytic techniques. potential advantages of box plots over conventional t-tests for understanding data are shown by comparing the area under high and low frequencies from spectral curves of autonomic changes following chemotherapy treatment. typical t-tests provide information regarding statistical significance in terms of the differences in group means; box plots and related exploratory techniques provide information regarding the characteristics of the distributions within the groups as well as examination of potential outliers. multivariate analysis of variance (manova) and other multivariate techniques are commonly used to deal with potentially complex data sets with multiple outcome measures. the potential advantages of visual clustering techniques such as star plots, chernoff faces, and andrew's function plots are demonstrated by examining changes in facial pallor caused by chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. typical manova approaches can identify potential differences in mean values between groups; visual clustering approaches do this by graphically presenting complex interrelationships for individual cases. this approach enhances the visual interpretation of potential interactions that would be obscured by simply focusing on overall mean values. preliminary data from a meta-analysis on the effect of metoclopramide on chemotherapy-induced vomiting demonstrates the potential uses and advantages of this summary technique over simple tabular summaries. we found significant relationships between the effect size of the drug and variables such as the year of study publication and whether the publication was an article or an abstract. while none of these techniques are meant to replace traditional inferential statistics, they offer advantages in terms of data exploration and understanding relationships within data sets that are not clearly addressed by other methods. they are potentially valuable alternatives worthy of exploration. finally, we discuss issues of interim analyses and multiple endpoint assessment for clinical trials.
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with primary brain tumors. all histologically documented episodes of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in adult patients with primary brain tumors treated at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center, new york, ny, since 1981, were retrospectively reviewed. pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was histologically documented 11 times in 10 patients. during the same 8-year interval, approximately 587 adults were seen at the center for a brain tumor, 90% of whom received ongoing therapy. therefore, in at least 1.7% (10/587) of our patients with brain tumors, p carinii pneumonia developed. the median duration of dexamethasone therapy at the onset of p carinii pneumonia symptoms was 2.75 months. symptoms began during tapering of steroid therapy in eight episodes. bronchoscopy was diagnostic in the eight cases in which it was performed. four episodes (40%) were fatal. trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis may be indicated in some patients with brain tumors, especially during tapering of steroid therapy.
survival discriminants for differentiated thyroid cancer. since 1975, the american cancer society, illinois division, has published end results of major cancer sites drawn from patient data contributed voluntarily by hospital cancer registries throughout the state. the current study was undertaken, in part, to apprehend information regarding contested areas in the management of patients having differentiated (papillary/follicular) thyroid cancer. a total of 2,282 patients with either papillary or follicular carcinoma of the thyroid from 76 different illinois hospitals and providing 10 years of follow-up information (life-table analysis) were retrospectively analyzed for demographic, disease, and treatment-related predictors of survival. multivariate analysis using the cox proportional hazards method was made for stage, age, race, sex, morphology, history of radiation exposure, presence of positive lymph nodes, initial surgical treatment, postoperative iodine 131 therapy, and replacement/suppressive thyroid hormone treatment. statistically significant (p less than or equal to 0.05) predictors of favorable survival after thyroid cancer were low stage (i and ii), young age (less than 50 years), white race, female sex, and the administration, postoperatively, of either thyroid hormone or radioactive iodine. factors that had no influence on survival were lymph node status, choice of initial surgical treatment, and a history of prior irradiation. we suggest that where a prospective clinical trial is impracticable, a retrospective analysis of a large and detailed database, such as that available from cooperating hospital-based tumor registries, may yet provide useful insights to solutions of cancer management problems.
cingulin, a specific protein component of tight junctions, is expressed in normal and neoplastic human epithelial tissues. cingulin is a 140-kd protein localized on the cytoplasmic face of avian tight junctions. the expression of cingulin in human normal and neoplastic colonic tissue has been investigated with an antiserum against chicken cingulin. human cingulin shares its apparent molecular mass and localization with avian cingulin. in normal colonic epithelium, villous adenomas, and differentiated adenocarcinomas, cingulin staining is observed in the junctional region of the polarized cells lining the surface, the crypts, and the glandular lumina. in poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas, labeling also is observed at the interface between cancer tissue and stroma, or in clumps of malignant cells, forming a pattern that highlights the presence of small, compressed lumina. the cingulin content of four adenocarcinomas, estimated by immunoblotting and densitometry, was higher than that of the normal tissue (150% to 230%). cingulin was detected in a metastasis from a colon adenocarcinoma but not in nonepithelial tissues and neoplasias, suggesting that cingulin may be a useful marker in the characterization of colonic and probably other epithelial neoplasias.
labetalol and mri as initial medical and diagnostic modalities in a marfanoid patient with expanding ascending aortic aneurysm. marfan syndrome is a hereditable disorder of connective tissue that causes several distinct cardiovascular abnormalities, including aortic regurgitation, dissection, and aneurysm. these cardiac manifestations can be identified with echocardiography, computer tomography, and angiography. standard treatment of an acute hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome uses propranolol and sodium nitroprusside. this patient with marfan syndrome whose case is reported herein presented with chest pain, hypertensive crisis, and aortic insufficiency; labetalol was used successfully to treat the acute hypertensive crisis and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was used to differentiate between aortic dissection and an expanding aortic aneurysm. this report is unique in that labetalol was used to control the hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome and mri was used as the initial diagnostic modality in an emergency setting.
physician practice for cardiovascular disease risk-factor reduction in six upper midwestern communities. preventive practice for coronary heart disease risk is increasingly accepted in the medical community. to determine the extent and characteristics of treatment advice for high blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and cigarette smoking, 274 randomly selected primary care physicians were interviewed by telephone in six midwestern cities. participation in the survey was 90%. reported care for high blood pressure was consistent with national guidelines. management of high blood cholesterol varied significantly among physicians and frequently differed from national recommendations. although consensus existed on the importance of advising cigarette smoking cessation, reported approaches differed. the results observed indicate improved preventive practice compared with earlier surveys and recent national reports. continued improvement, however, is needed in cholesterol and smoking-cessation management.
rectal strictures: treatment with fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation. the authors performed 25 fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation procedures in nine patients with rectal strictures. in all cases, the stricture developed after rectal surgery. four patients underwent ileoanal anastomosis after total colectomy for various conditions; five patients underwent rectosigmoid end-to-end anastomosis after resection of a tumor or as treatment for diverticulitis. maximal stricture dilatation was attained in 20 instances with a single 15-30-mm balloon. in five procedures, two balloons (20 or 15 mm) were inflated simultaneously ("kissing balloons" technique) to dilate the strictures. in five patients, only one dilation procedure was required for effective treatment of the strictures, with no clinical evidence of strictures after follow-up of 1.5-56 months (mean, 29.5 months). in the other four patients, multiple procedures were performed: nine in one patient, five in one patient, and three in two patients. in these patients, no recurrent symptoms developed during follow-up of 1.25-18 months (mean, 8.1 months) after the last dilation. complicating leaks, infection, or hemorrhage did not occur after any of the procedures. fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation is a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of rectal strictures.
deletions in patients with classical choroideremia vary in size from 45 kb to several megabases. making use of the p1bd5 probe (dxs165), we have isolated several markers from the choroideremia locus by chromosomal jumping, preparative field-inversion gel electrophoresis, and cloning of a deletion junction fragment. with these clones we were able to identify and characterize eight deletions in 69 choroideremia patients investigated. the deletions are heterogeneous, in both size and location. the smallest deletion (patient lgl1134) comprises approximately 45 kb of dna, whereas the largest ones (patients 25.6 and lgl2905) span a dna segment of at least 5 megabases, which is comparable in size to the smallest deletion detected in a tcd patient (patient xl45) showing a complex phenotype. the tcd deletions encompass variable parts of 150-200-kb dna segment that is flanked by p1bd5 (dxs165) at the centromeric side and by pz 11 at the telomeric side. the deletions in patients 33.1, lgl1101, and lgl1134 do not span a translocation breakpoint which was previously mapped on the x chromosome of a female with tcd. the clones isolated from the tcd locus are valuable diagnostic markers for deletion analysis of patients or carrier females. in addition, they should be useful for the isolation of expressed sequences that are part of the tcd gene.
computed tomography staging of the paranasal sinuses in chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis. in this study, the computed tomography scans of 100 patients with chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis were reviewed to establish a clinical staging system. fourteen percent of the patients were classified as stage i (single-focus disease); 36% as stage ii (multifocal disease responsive to conservative therapy); 32% as stage iii (diffuse disease partially responsive to medication); and 16% as stage iv (diffuse disease associated with bony changes and poorly responsive to conservative treatment). the incidence of recurrent or persistent disease ranged from 13% for stage ii to 30% for stage iv. stage i and iii patients had 13% and 18% recurrence rates, respectively. computed tomography staging is shown to be useful in outlining operative strategies and is a reliable prognosticator of the disease process.
comparison of two ascitic fluid culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. the conventional method of ascitic fluid culture detects bacteria in only 50% of cirrhotic patients with neutrocytic ascites and suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (sbp). we have prospectively compared two ascites culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis: 1) conventional (on chocolate agar, blood agar, mac conkay agar, and thioglycolate broth), and 2) modified [inoculation of 10 ml of ascites in a tryptic soy broth (tsb) blood culture bottle at the patient's bedside]. in a 21-month period, 70 episodes of sbp were diagnosed according to our criteria in 60 cirrhotic patients. both culture methods were performed simultaneously. the conventional grew bacteria in 40 episodes (57%), whereas the modified grew bacteria in 54 episodes (77%), a significantly higher sensitivity (p = 0.0001). in 16 cases (23%), ascitic culture was negative by both methods. the mortality rate was higher among patients with culture-positive sbp than those with culture-negative sbp (46% vs 37%), but did not reach statistical significance. we conclude that ascitic fluid inoculated into a tsb blood culture bottle at the patient's bedside should be used routinely for ascites culture in cirrhotic patients.
serum acute phase proteins after orthotopic liver transplantation. acute phase proteins were measured in six patients before liver transplantation and for 72 h after orthotopic liver transplantation. the ability of the donor liver to mount an acute phase response was demonstrated, although the response was less than that seen in other groups of patients in whom this has been studied. because of the reduced response to stress, the value of these measurements as indicators of liver function in this group of patients is limited.
the role of venous hypertension in the pathogenesis of legg-perthes disease. a clinical and experimental study. thirty-two patients in whom legg-perthes disease apparently involved only one hip were examined with venography, measurement of intraosseous and intra-articular pressures, arthrography, and dynamic triphasic bone-imaging with 99mtc methylene diphosphonate. the arterial flow of blood in the affected femoral head was slightly decreased, but the difference from that on the normal side was not statistically significant. however, there was marked disturbance of the venous drainage in the diseased hip, elevated intraosseous pressure in the affected femoral neck, and increased intra-articular pressure in the involved hip compared with the normal side. an animal model was then created in twenty immature dogs, venous drainage was obstructed, and intraosseous pressure of the femoral head and neck was elevated by injection of four milliliters of semiliquid silicone into the femoral neck. in eleven of the dogs, areas of avascular necrosis resembling those associated with legg-perthes disease developed in the femoral head.
biochemical evidence of sympathetic hyperactivity in human hypertension. radiotracer measures of norepinephrine overflow to plasma are well suited for studying both human sympathetic nervous system responses to mental stress and sympathetic nervous pathophysiology in human hypertension. with an experimental laboratory stressor (cognitive challenge), we noted a preferential activation of the cardiac sympathetic outflow; however, in fainting reactions ("vasovagal syncope"), which occur infrequently during the course of central venous catheter placement under local anesthesia, the converse was seen--an almost total withdrawal of cardiac sympathetic activity. in primary human hypertension (particularly in younger patients), a differentiated activation of the sympathetic outflow to the heart and kidneys is present, based on measurements of norepinephrine spillover to plasma. it is uncertain whether this is attributable to behavioral factors and represents a component of the defense reaction. we previously reported overflow of norepinephrine into the cerebrovascular circulation (with high internal jugular venous sampling) in humans. because this is resistant to ganglion blockade, brain neurons--not the cerebrovascular sympathetics--are the presumed source. in a preliminary study, we found higher rates of norepinephrine spillover into the cerebrovascular circulation in patients with essential hypertension than in healthy subjects, suggesting that an underlying increase in central nervous system norepinephrine turnover may be the basis for the increased sympathetic outflow.
is adenosine 5'-triphosphate derangement or free-radical-mediated injury the major cause of ventricular dysfunction during reperfusion? role of adenine nucleoside transport in myocardial reperfusion injury. the aim of this study was to determine the dual role of atp as an energy substrate and as a major source of oxygen-derived free-radical-mediated reperfusion injury by using adenine nucleoside blocker, p-nitrobenzylthioinosine (nbmpr), and adenosine deaminase inhibitor, erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (ehna). in a randomized study, 16 dogs were instrumented with minor-axis ltz-piezoelectric crystals and intraventricular pressure transducers to monitor, off bypass, left ventricular performance by using a sensitive and load-independent index of contractility (slope of the stroke work-end-diastolic length relation). hearts were subjected to 60 minutes of normothermic global ischemia and 120 minutes of reperfusion. normal saline without (group 1, n = 8) or with (group 2, n = 8) nbmpr and ehna was infused in three boluses into the cardiopulmonary bypass reservoir before ischemia and reperfusion. transmural serial biopsies were obtained before and during ischemia and reperfusion and analyzed for myocardial adenine nucleotide pool intermediates by using high-performance liquid chromatography. in the control group, three hearts developed ischemic contracture and another three hearts exhibited cardiogenic shock during reperfusion. in the ehna/nbmpr-treated group, left ventricular performance recovered within 30 minutes of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. control). myocardial atp was depleted to 20% of normal in both groups by the end of ischemia (p less than 0.05). intramyocardial adenosine in the ehna/nbmpr-treated group was 12-fold greater (15.09 +/- 1.6 nmol/mg protein) than the control group at the end of the ischemic period (p less than 0.05). inosine was about fourfold higher in the control group (19.07 +/- 1.50 nmol/mg protein) compared with the drug-treated group (p less than 0.05). during reperfusion, myocardial atp levels increased to approximately 50% of normal in the ehna/nbmpr group while remaining depressed (20% of normal) in the control group. thus, despite the dramatic loss of myocardial atp during ischemia, complete recovery of ventricular performance and significant repletion of atp during reperfusion were observed when adenosine transport and deamination were modulated during ischemia and reperfusion. these results suggest that 1) the myocardium may have more atp than is needed for basic cardiac functions and 2) washout of atp diffusible catabolites is detrimental to ventricular performance during reperfusion. specific blockade of nucleoside transport resulted in complete functional recovery despite low but critical atp levels.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
electrocardiographic ambulatory monitoring with a real-time analysis system. the analysis of records collected during long-term ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring has traditionally involved the review of massive data, either manually or with the aid of interactive scanning computers. many factors complicate this analysis, including the use of analog tape for storage of electrocardiographic waveforms, the need to analyze 100,000 waveforms from an average 24-hour study, and the need to deal with an interface that compresses 24 hours of data into as little as 6 minutes on a screen. today, the computer incorporated in the monitor can scrutinize each cardiac cycle in real time. the system produces a statistical report based on every heart beat and also performs data reduction and storage of electrocardiograph samples. to assess real-time analysis we examined data collected from the circadian circamed ambulatory electrocardiography system. we found that it could detect and quantify simple or complex ventricular ectopic beats, brady- or tachyarrhythmic events, and st-segment deviation. one hundred fifty patients 21 to 85 years old with symptoms or clinical finding suggestive of ischemia, cardiac arrhythmia, or conductive defects were referred to our electrocardiography laboratory for ambulatory monitoring. the results demonstrate that this system can detect the full range of cardiac disease found with the traditional method. of the 150 patients, ambulatory electrocardiographic tests were positive in 93 (62%). in addition, we developed a methodology for lead placement when using two bipolar leads, as is typical for ambulatory electrocardiography. we present a procedure for determining the optimum lead placement that is based on the patient's history and a 12-lead electrocardiogram.
magnitude and time course of extracellular potassium inhomogeneities during acute ischemia in pigs. effect of verapamil. prior studies have demonstrated the presence of inhomogeneities in myocardial [k+]e after serial 10-minute occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in the pig, even within restricted locations of an ischemic zone. these inhomogeneities are thought to underlie the electrophysiological abnormalities responsible for lethal ventricular arrhythmias through reentrant and nonreentrant pathways, but a clear association has not been demonstrated. as a prerequisite to establishing this association, these studies were performed to establish measurement standards for [k+]e inhomogeneity, to quantify the magnitude and time course of these inhomogeneities, to determine whether the inhomogeneities are greater in the ischemic border where lethal ventricular arrhythmias are known to originate, and to assess the effect of a known antifibrillatory drug on [k+]e inhomogeneities. [k+]e (expressed as the change in potassium equilibrium potential, dek [mv]) was measured in 15 preparations using an average of 17 closely spaced, critically calibrated k(+)-sensitive electrodes having stable response characteristics. a series of four 10-minute occlusions each separated by a 50-minute reperfusion period were performed in each study. in half of the studies, intravenous verapamil (0.2 mg/kg bolus followed by 0.0065 mg/kg/hr) was administered before the fourth occlusion. in nine studies (five control and four verapamil), electrodes were placed in the marginal ischemic zone (from 2 mm outside to 5 mm inside the visible cyanotic border). in six other studies (three control and three verapamil), electrodes were placed in the central ischemic zone (10-20 mm within the ischemic region). we determined that the standard deviation is the best measure of inhomogeneity and that 12 equivalent measurement sites are required to estimate it with a satisfactory degree of statistical confidence. we found that after 10 minutes of ischemia, mean dek was 1.6 times greater in the central than in the marginal ischemic zone, whereas mean standard deviation at the same time was 1.5 times greater in the marginal than in the central ischemic zone. verapamil reduced mean dek and mean standard deviation in both ischemic zones for most of the occlusion by delaying the rise in [k+]e and the inhomogeneity of that rise by 3-5 minutes. comparisons of mean dek with mean standard deviation revealed a steep linear relation in the marginal zone and a curvilinear relation in the central zone where higher mean dek values were not accompanied by higher values for mean standard deviation. furthermore, we determined that these relations were not altered by verapamil.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
current status of duplex doppler ultrasound in the examination of the abdominal vasculature. duplex doppler ultrasound has come to play a central role in the diagnosis of a broad spectrum of vascular diseases such as carotid artery occlusive disease and deep vein thrombosis. the role of duplex doppler in the evaluation of intra-abdominal vascular disease remains unclear. this article summarizes the current status of duplex scanning in the investigation of the mesenteric arteries, the renal arteries, and the portal venous system. the examination is technically demanding, operator-dependent, time-consuming, and frequently unsatisfactory due to bowel gas, obesity, complex anatomy, or postoperative alterations in the normal anatomic patterns. its advantages reside primarily in the absence of toxicity and in the generation of physiologic as well as anatomic information. in centers with the proper instrumentation and a skilled technician, duplex examination can be useful in the diagnosis and management of abdominal vascular disease and avoids the inherent dangers of contrast angiography.
premenstrual syndrome: an update for the clinician. premenstrual syndrome is a complex disorder in which a variety of symptoms can occur in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. the symptoms should occur each cycle only from the time near ovulation to soon after the onset of menses. there should be at least 1 week in follicular phase that is symptom-free. symptoms should be severe enough to significantly interfere with the ability of the patient to function within her normal lifestyle. diagnosis is based on clinical information from prospective charting of symptoms. up to 50 per cent of patients who think they have pms really suffer from another type of mental illness, usually a depressive disorder. laboratory tests are not generally helpful in the diagnosis. treatment is based on the type(s) of symptom(s). available treatments are reviewed with documentation of results from double-blind placebo-controlled experimental designs. the etiology of pms is not known. however, there are good empiric therapies available that can help most pms patients.
failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome. we evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear. in addition to a thorough history, physical examination, local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder. in 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors, and in 28 operative errors; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct. subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker's compensation benefit had a 75% success rate, whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46%.
the relevance of anatomic and hemodynamic factors to a classification of cerebral arteriovenous malformations. potential prognostic anatomic and hemodynamic factors were evaluated in 248 patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformations (avms), all treated by direct microsurgical removal. the size of each avm was calculated by its volume, obtained by the multiplication of the three avm diameters by 0.52. a surgical classification of avm location (in 11 groups) is proposed. types of feeders and of drainage were classified as superficial or deep; the extent of the drainage system was classified according to a four-degree scale. the mean flow velocity in the main avm feeder, detected using transcranial doppler ultrasonography, was used as an indirect measure of avm shunt flow in a small number of patients (n = 29). avm volume was a very important prognostic factor: the incidence of hyperemic complications and the morbidity and mortality rate were significantly higher when the volume of the lesion was greater than 20 cm3 (p less than 0.0001 for hyperemic complications; p less than 0.001 for permanent morbidity and mortality). the incidence of hyperemic complications and the morbidity rate were higher in avms in rolandic, inferior limbic, and insular locations than in avms in other locations. as for other anatomic factors: a) the presence of deep feeders significantly increased the incidence of hyperemic complications, as well as the morbidity and mortality rate; b) the presence of deep drainage significantly increased permanent morbidity only; c) the extension of the venous system was significantly related to the development of hyperemic complications, and to morbidity and mortality. transcranial doppler examination showed that mean flow velocities greater than 120 cm/s in the main feeder were associated with a significantly higher rate of postoperative hematomas and transient deficits. a classification of cerebral avms that takes into account avm volume and location, the type of feeders, the extent of the drainage system, and the main feeder flow velocity is suggested.
successful treatment of recurrent corneal erosion with nd:yag anterior stromal puncture i used a new technique to create anterior corneal stromal punctures for the treatment of traumatic recurrent corneal erosions that had not responded to conventional therapy. three patients with such erosions within the visual axis were successfully treated by using multiple applications of the nd: yag laser set at energy levels between 1.8 and 2.2 mj. one of these patients had previous stromal puncture with a bent 25-gauge needle. the erosions of all patients healed without complications and have remained symptom-free for four to six months. compared with needle puncture, the laser punctures were more reproducible, shallow, and translucent.
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity. autologous lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 (ril-2) were administered intraperitoneally (ip) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space. ten patients had ovarian cancer, 12 had colorectal cancer, and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma. all ovarian cancer patients, three of twelve colorectal cancer patients, and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy. patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously (iv) for 3 days, and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days. lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter (davol, inc, cranston, ri) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours. all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy. toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distension, diarrhea, oliguria, fluid retention, thrombocytopenia, and minor elevations of liver function tests; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2. one patient had a grand mal seizure, and one suffered a colonic perforation; these were felt to be treatment-related. ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients. two of 10 (20%) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 (42%) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy- or laparotomy-documented partial responses. we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients, resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy. further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results.
geriatric constipation: brief update on a common problem. constipation occurs frequently in the elderly and is often multifactorial in origin. a search for an underlying cause is necessary, and can often be found by taking an adequate history and performing a thorough physical examination. a minority of patients require further investigation, guided by the clinical setting. management should be directed at correcting the underlying cause and providing dietary advice and, less commonly, medication to allow restoration of a normal bowel habit.
free protein s deficiency in a family with venous thrombosis. inherited deficiencies of protein s, an inhibitor of the coagulation system, are now recognized as occurring at least twice as frequently as antithrombin iii deficiency in patients with venous thrombosis. protein s is present in plasma in a complexed form, which is inactive, and in a free or functional form. free protein s combines with activated protein c to inhibit factors v and viii. this report describes the evaluation of a family with recurrent deep venous thrombosis and superficial thrombophlebitis. levels of antithrombin iii and protein c as well as plasminogen were normal. the levels of total protein s, which includes the value for the free and complexed forms of protein s, were also normal. however, the free protein s levels were greatly reduced in all symptomatic members who were studied. this report illustrates the importance of obtaining measurement of free protein s levels in patients who are suspected of having inherited venous thrombotic disorders.
hairless micropig skin. a novel model for studies of cutaneous biology. reported here is the structural and immunohistochemical similarities between the yucatan hairless micropig (hmp) skin and that of humans. hairless micropig skin surface was composed of complex intersecting furrows that created geometric patterns remarkably similar to human skin surface glyphics. the dermal--epidermal interface consisted of undulant downgrowths that interdigitated with dermal papillae. hairless micropig epidermis contained two morphologically distinct populations of basal keratinocytes (serrated and nonserrated). similar heterogeneity has been seen only in human epidermis and primate palmar epidermis. immunohistochemistry revealed that the hmp epidermis is reactive with monoclonal and polyclonal antisera to keratin proteins. melanocytes reactive with antisera to s-100 protein, as in human skin, also were observed in hmp epidermis. organization of dermal extracellular matrix, including collagen and elastic fibers, and the organization and reactivity of the microvasculature with antisera to factor viii, were consistent with human skin. the costicosteroid-induced atrophy and subsequent rebound phenomenon after withdrawal of steroid observed in hmp skin was similar with that observed in humans. it is concluded that hmp skin approximates human skin significantly more precisely than most existing species and is an excellent model for studies of cutaneous physiology and pharmacology.
ischaemic left ventricular failure: evidence of sustained benefit after 18 months' treatment with xamoterol. the long term effects of treatment with xamoterol in 14 patients aged 44-73 with mild to moderate heart failure as a result of ischaemic heart disease are reported. after 18 months' treatment with xamoterol, patients were assessed in a randomised double blind crossover comparison of xamoterol (200 mg twice a day) and placebo, each given for one month. compared with placebo, xamoterol significantly increased exercise duration and work done on a bicycle ergometer and reduced the maximum exercise heart rate. assessment of symptoms and activities at 12 months by visual analogue and likert scales showed a trend towards the relief of symptoms of breathlessness and tiredness and an improvement in activity. there was an improvement in the clinical signs of heart failure and no haemodynamic deterioration over a 12 month period as assessed by ejection fraction. the improvement in exercise tolerance, symptoms, and activities was sustained for 18 months without side effects or development of tolerance.
autologous bone marrow transplantation in high-risk remission t-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia using immunotoxins plus 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide for marrow purging. fourteen patients with high-risk t-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) in complete remission underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation (bmt) in an attempt to eradicate their residual disease burden. a combined immunochemotherapy protocol using a cocktail of two immunotoxins directed against cd5/tp67 and cd7/tp41 t-lineage differentiation antigens in combination with the in vitro active cyclophosphamide congener 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide (4-hc) was used to purge autografts. despite high dose pretransplant radiochemotherapy and effective purging of autografts, 9 of 14 patients relapsed at a median of 2.5 months (range, 1.2 to 16.8 months) post bmt. two patients remain alive and disease free at 26 and 28 months post bmt. we used a novel quantitative minimal residual disease (mrd) detection assay, which combines fluorescence activated multiparameter flow cytometry and cell sorting with leukemic progenitor cell (lpc) assays, to analyze remission bone marrow (bm) samples from t-lineage all patients for the presence of residual lpcs. notably, high numbers of residual lpc detected in remission bm before bmt constituted a poor prognostic indicator, providing the first evidence for the biologic significance and clinical value of in vitro t-lineage all lpc assays. the median value for the residual leukemia burden before bmt, was approximately 8.6 x 10(3) lpc/10(8) mononuclear cells (mnc) (approximately 0.0086% lpc). patients with a residual leukemia burden less than this median value appeared to have a better outlook for remaining free of relapse after autologous bmt than patients with a greater leukemia burden (53 +/- 25% v 14 +/- 13%, p = .006, mantel-cox). by comparison, the log kill efficacy of purging, the remaining numbers of lpc in purged autografts, or the estimated numbers of reinfused lpc, did not correlate with the probability of disease-free survival (dfs). these results indicate that the primary reason for the recurrence of leukemia was inefficient pretransplant radiochemotherapy rather than inefficient purging of autografts.
renal angiomyolipoma: report of 24 cases. a series of 24 patients with renal angiomyolipoma was reviewed. their ages ranged from 10 to 70 years (average 41). four cases were associated with tuberous sclerosis, 1 with spinal neurilemmoma, 1 with transitional cell carcinoma and another with renal tuberculosis. the presenting symptoms in decreasing frequencies were flank pain, mass, haematuria, fever, syncope and respiratory distress. although it has often been said that angiomyolipomas associated with tuberous sclerosis are small and asymptomatic, all 4 such patients in this study had large symptomatic tumours. before the advent of ct scan and ultrasonography, the pre-operative diagnostic rate for cases unassociated with tuberous sclerosis was 10% (1/10). with the combined use of these 2 modalities, the diagnostic rate increased to 60% (6/10). most patients in this series were treated with nephrectomy. however, equally good outcomes occurred in 2 patients who received partial nephrectomies. pre-operative diagnosis now makes it possible to consider more conservative management.
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone. we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy. the incidences of infection, seroma, hematoma, and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients (305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction) from virginia mason medical center, seattle, wash, between 1983 and 1989. obesity, age (60 years or older), smoking, antibiotics, and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors. there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group (48% vs 31%), and specifically, more seromas (30% vs 13%). in the modified radical mastectomy group, age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection, drainage greater than 30 ml per day (at time of drain removal) with seroma, and smoking with epidermolysis. in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group, obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis. we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications.
carbamazepine overdose: a prospective study of serum levels and toxicity. a cooperative prospective study of consecutive cases of carbamazepine overdose was conducted to determine if serum levels were predictive of toxicity and if risk factors such as age, chronic exposure, or previous disorder or cardiovascular disease could be used as prognostic indicators. seventy-three consecutive cases were collected from two regional certified poison control centers from january 1989 to august 1989. there were 25 exposures in children less than 6 yrs., 11 exposures in adolescents, and 37 exposures in adults. ten adult cases and one adolescent case were excluded from the study due to the presence of coingestants or inadequate information. peak measured serum levels ranged from 0.3 to 56 mcg/ml. using the presence of coma, seizure activity or respiratory depression requiring mechanical ventilation as measures of toxicity, we found poor correlation between rising serum levels of carbamazepine and toxicity. increased serum levels of carbamazepine did appear to correlate with increased hospital stay, but not with icu stay. history of a seizure disorder appears to pose increased risk of a seizure in carbamazepine overdose. in this series chronic exposure to carbamazepine did not appear to increase the risk of coma or respiratory depression for a given toxic serum level and may add some protective effect. serum levels below 40 mcg/ml do not appear to accurately predict the severity of toxicity. cardiac conduction defects were rare (one child). anticholinergic findings, as evidence by decreased bowel motility and sinus tachycardia were common. previous cardiovascular disease and age did not appear to be important prognostic indicators.
a new method for estimating preexcitation index without extrastimulus technique and its usefulness in determining the mechanism of supraventricular tachycardia. the preexcitation index has been shown to be useful in determining the mechanism of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (svt) and the site of the accessory pathway in atrioventricular (av) reentrant tachycardia. to test whether a preexcitation index could be computed analytically instead of by scanning the whole svt cycle with extrastimuli, 19 patients with svt were studied. the new index was computed using the following formula: (av conduction time during svt) + (ventriculoatrial conduction time during ventricular pacing at the svt cycle length) - (svt cycle length). there was a strong correlation between the preexcitation index determined by the extrastimulus technique and the new index in 15 patients in whom the preexcitation index could be determined (r = 0.99, p less than 0.01). the value on the new index was greater than 90 ms only in patients with dual av nodal pathways. in the 4 patients in whom the preexcitation index could not be determined by the extrastimulus technique, the new index could differentiate av reentrant tachycardia (index for 2 patients, 60 and 60 ms, respectively) from av nodal reentrant tachycardia (index for 2 patients, 100 and 105 ms, respectively). in conclusion, the new index provided help in determining the mechanism of svt, even when retrograde atrial preexcitation by a ventricular extrastimulus did not occur.
human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy. a study of liver volume by computed tomography. regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography (ct) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients. liver volumes were measured by abdominal ct 3 days, 10 days, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 1.5 years after resection. of the 17 patients, liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2% +/- 6.7% and 30.6% +/- 12.7% at 3 months and 6 months after resection, respectively. noncirrhotic livers were 28.4% +/- 9.5% and 48.4% +/- 17.8% larger at 3 and 6 months. for cirrhotic livers, the increase was 8.5% +/- 3.6% and 12.9% +/- 4.5%. in five patients with right hepatectomy (65% resection), the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4% +/- 11.7%, 48.0% +/- 16.2% and 95.1% +/- 4.5% at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resection, respectively. in seven patients with right partial hepatectomy (30% to 35% resection), the percentages were 7.4% +/- 3.2%, 21.8% +/- 8.4%, and 63.9% +/- 18.3% and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy (15% resection), they were 15.6% +/- 8.2%, 27.8% +/- 12.2%, and 33.0% +/- 14.5% 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resections, respectively. noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers. complete regeneration took about 1 year. the noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume.
angina, ischemia, and effort tolerance with vasodilating beta-blockers. beta-blockers are known to suppress exercise-induced ischemia but give rise to such problems as fatigue or dyspnea on effort and also bradycardia. in a series of double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of celiprolol (a cardioselective beta 1-blocker with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory properties) in patients with hypertension and angina and in normal volunteers, it was found that celiprolol did not produce bradycardia when given in combination with verapamil. celiprolol did reduce exercise-induced ischemia, but there was no reduction in cardiac output at rest or on exercise compared with placebo. compared with atenolol, celiprolol produced less dyspnea and fatigue at submaximal levels of exercise. it is concluded that celiprolol possesses certain differences, compared with conventional beta-blockers, that may be of direct clinical benefit.
antimony and glass ph electrodes can be used interchangeably in 24-hour studies of gastric acidity. antimony and glass ph electrodes show almost identical experimental errors in continuously measuring buffer solutions at constant temperature over 24 hr. these errors are lower than the nominal quantization error of the instruments and are not properly described by the 24-hr drift determination. the addition of food particles to the solutions can induce severe reading artifacts. the longer response time reported in vitro of antimony electrodes when moving from ph 1 to ph 7 (3.4 sec vs 0.8 sec with glass electrodes) is irrelevant during in vivo ph-metry studies, because we found that the greatest absolute difference between raw fast acquired (4-6 sec) consecutive ph readings of two commonly used devices was 0.7 ph units in circadian profiles obtained from 413 subjects with various clinical conditions. in our in vivo studies, gastric acidity was monitored continuously with two side-by-side minielectrodes, which were variously combined (antimony-glass, a-g; antimony-antimony a1-a2; glass-glass, g1-g2) and applied on groups of 27 subjects matched for clinical condition. the 24-hr ph means and the 24-hr [h+] means calculated from the acidity profiles obtained with the three electrode combinations, lie on the identity line in each group. using the bland-altman technique for assessing measurement agreement, the differences between the 24-hr ph means and the 24-hr [h+] means obtained with the three combined systems are similar (p = .903 and p = 0.824, respectively) and their 95% confidence limits are comprised within the range (+/-) of the reading error of the measuring systems (namely, +/- 0.3 ph units and +/- 12 mmol/liter in terms of [h+]).
sex hormone receptors in human thyroid tissues. the behavior of sex hormone receptors was studied in the cytosol of thyroid tissue samples in order to clarify the effects of sex hormones on diseases of the thyroid. androgen receptor (ar), estrogen receptor (er), and progesterone receptor (pgr) were assayed using the dextran-coated charcoal (dcc) method and analyzed by the method of scatchard. androgen receptor, er, and pgr were negative in all of the cytosol prepared from normal thyroid tissues. however, the positive rates for the receptors in the neoplastic and nonneoplastic tissues were 22% for ar, 29% for er, and 18% for pgr. especially, the incidence of er was significantly higher in neoplastic lesions than normal tissues. these data suggest that sex hormones, especially estrogen, may play a role in diseases of the thyroid.
neonatal intracranial teratomas. two neonates with intracranial teratomas presented with cranial enlargements a few weeks after birth. both cases underwent surgery: one died intraoperatively; the other is the longest known survivor, alive 7 years and 9 months after subtotal excision of a mature teratoma of the left sylvian fissure. previous operations have been relatively few and nearly all have been unsuccessful. size and favorable location may be the most important prognostic features regardless of the histologic classification as mature or immature. one of our cases demonstrates that even subtotal excision of a mature teratoma can result in long-term survival.
amyloidosis associated bleeding diatheses in the surgical patient. the coagulopathies associated with amyloidosis have not been widely appreciated. we encountered a patient with amyloidosis and mildly abnormal coagulation studies who presented for an emergency laparotomy for acute bowel obstruction. upon gentle manipulation of the bowel, an unexpected bleeding diathesis was manifested by the formation of several large haematomas resulting in a large amount of blood loss (approximately 800 ml). numerous defects of platelet function and coagulation have been associated with amyloidosis, including abnormal platelet aggregation, increased vascular fragility, factor ix and x deficiencies, decreased levels of alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor, and increased levels of plasminogen. intraoperative therapy for our patient included the rapid administration of four units of fresh frozen plasma and ten units of platelet concentrate. a review of the pathology and therapeutic modalities for this potentially life-threatening complication is presented.
a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection. we present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection. etiologic factors are discussed.
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia. fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia, so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients. although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age, from 5 weeks to 40 years, gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95% of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring. panendoscopy was a useful adjunct. preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting, respiratory infections, and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction. severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration, dependence on gavage feedings, or poor weight gain and dehydration. follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years; 55 patients (85%) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment. we had no instances of surgical death. the long-term mortality rate was 14%, primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease. beyond the first postoperative year, 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration, exacerbation of preexisting lung disease, or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux. of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively, six had recurrence of reflux. recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients (12%), and we revised the fundoplication in three patients. the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients, neither of whom had recurrence of reflux. because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent, concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia, before the development of severe respiratory disease. despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients, the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status, decreased vomiting, and decreased respiratory problems. appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation. the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia.
recurrent intracaval renal cell carcinoma: the role of intravascular ultrasonography. the presence of extension into the vena cava does not preclude curative resection for extensive renal cell carcinomas. however, preoperative assessment of (1) the proximal extent of the tumor and (2) the degree of adherence within the vena cava is necessary to plan operative strategies. the following report describes the successful use of intravascular ultrasonography in the preoperative evaluation of a patient with recurrent renal cell carcinoma with vena caval extension.
development and application of an in vitro model for screening anti-hepatitis b virus therapeutics. the development of effective anti-hepatitis b virus agents has been hampered by the lack of reliable in vitro systems for the screening of new therapeutics. in an effort to circumvent this problem, we have developed an in vitro system for screening anti-hepatitis b virus drugs using hepatitis b virus dna-transfected hep g2 cells. the cell line designated 2.2.15 produces replicative viral dna intermediates, mature dane particles and high levels of viral antigens. subconfluent 2.2.15 cells were treated with a variety of commonly used anti-hepatitis b virus therapeutics, and their efficacy was determined by analyzing changes in the replicative cellular or extracellular hepatitis b virus dna content by southern blotting or slot-blot hybridization. the slot-blot method was sensitive, reproducible and rapid and correlated well with southern blotting. analysis of the media for hepatitis b virus dna was indicative of changes in intracellular, replicative hepatitis b virus dna, permitting sampling of the media. therefore 2.2.15 cells may provide a valuable method for identifying and monitoring effective anti-hepatitis b virus therapeutics. using this system to test various agents, we confirm that 2'-deoxyguanosine strongly inhibited viral replication, whereas others tested were less effective. correlation with in vivo systems is now needed.
subacute poisoning with phosalone, an organophosphate insecticide. an illness characterized by weakness, dizziness, and gastrointestinal symtoms was identified among a crew of 30 migrant field-workers employed by a grape grower in madera county, california, during august 1987. the onset of symptoms occurred between august 24 and august 30 and a median of 9 days from the date of first employment. the first crew member sought medical treatment on august 26, and 10 crew members were admitted to hospital between august 27 and august 30. for most workers, gastrointestinal and constitutional symptoms resolved shortly after admission, but 4 patients had episodes of severe sinus bradycardia persisting for several days. on the day of admission, transient atrioventricular dissociation developed in 2 persons. interviews with 16 crew members not admitted to the hospital identified only 1 additional worker ill with gastrointestinal symptoms, but all 16 had moderate to severe inhibition of both plasma and red blood cell cholinesterase. four other workers who were tested but not interviewed also had cholinesterase depression. the crew had had exposure since august 19 to the organophosphate insecticide phosalone, which was last applied to the vineyard on july 21, or 29 days earlier. although this is the first report unequivocally linking phosalone to field-worker poisoning, the delayed onset and nonspecific nature of the symptoms associated with subacute poisoning may have hindered the recognition of previous similar episodes.
circulating tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 concentrations in chronic alcoholic patients. although altered cytokine homeostasis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease, the relationship between cytokines and metabolic consequences of alcoholic liver disease is unknown. we, therefore, sought to correlate circulating concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 to clinical and biochemical parameters of liver disease in chronic alcoholic patients. we used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure plasma tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1 and a bioassay to measure serum interleukin-6 in three groups of alcoholic men as follows: (a) actively drinking alcoholic men without evidence of chronic liver disease, (b) nondrinking alcoholic men with stable cirrhosis and (c) patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis. mean cytokine concentrations were elevated in cirrhotic patients and alcoholic hepatitis patients compared with controls and alcoholic patients without liver disease. tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha concentrations remained elevated for up to 6 mo after diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis, whereas interleukin-6 normalized in parallel with clinical recovery. concentrations of all three cytokines were correlated with biochemical parameters of liver injury and hepatic protein synthesis plus serum immunoglobulin concentrations. we could not demonstrate a relationship between cytokine concentrations and peripheral endotoxemia. percentages of peripheral blood monocytes that reacted with monoclonal antibodies to cd25 (interleukin-2 receptor) and human lymphocyte antigen-dr were similar for alcoholic patients and controls. these data suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha are related to some of the metabolic consequences of both acute and chronic alcohol-induced liver disease, whereas interleukin-6 is related to abnormalities seen in acute liver injury.
plasma antiepileptic drug concentrations during pregnancy. steady-state plasma antiepileptic drug (aed) concentrations were measured at intervals throughout pregnancy and during the postnatal period in 105 women who underwent 134 pregnancies. phenytoin (pht) dosage had to be increased in 85% of pregnancies in which the drug was received, carbamazepine (cbz) dosage in 70%, and phenobarbital (pb) or methylphenobarbital (mpb) dosage in 85%, in an attempt to prevent or correct a fall in plasma concentrations of the respective drugs as pregnancy progressed. the altered disposition of the aeds usually began in the first 10 weeks of pregnancy (often before epileptic pregnant women are referred for neurological supervision), and had returned to baseline value within 4 weeks of childbirth in two thirds of the women receiving pht. the return to the nonpregnant situation appeared to be slower for cbz, pb, and mpb. in women studied during more than one pregnancy, the changes in aed dosage to plasma concentration ratios tended to be greater in the first than in the subsequent pregnancies. full seizure control prior to pregnancy was associated with a more favorable outcome for freedom from seizures during pregnancy. however, the plasma level monitoring-dosage adjustment policy produced no marked improvement in overall seizure control in pregnancy. this may have occurred because some patients were seen too late in their pregnancies for the policy to have been applied optimally.
acute autonomic neuropathy. two cases and a clinical review. acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome, usually affecting healthy young people. presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common. we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature. acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension (26%) or pandysautonomic (74%) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions. onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20% of cases, with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks. gastroparesis (69%) and syncope (12%) are frequent presenting complaints. spinal fluid protein levels are often (75%) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes. prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule (60%), with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension. other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism, porphyria, amyloidosis, and paracarcinomatous neuropathies. acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy (guillain-barre syndrome), suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis.
left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis. an unusual case of staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented. echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color doppler test. emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient's preoperative course. surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence.
renal oncocytoma: long-term follow-up and flow cytometric dna analysis. we report a retrospective study on the clinicopathologic features and flow cytometric dna analysis of ten renal oncocytomas compared with a control group of ten randomly selected renal cell carcinomas. among the oncocytoma patients, no recurrences or metastases were noted over an average follow-up of 6.7 years (range = 6 months to 16 years). reproducible, high-quality dna histograms were obtained on the paraffin-embedded specimens by using our modified flow cytometric procedure. one aneuploid (10%) and two hyperdiploid tumors (20%) were found in the oncocytoma group. there was no correlation between these abnormal dna histographic patterns and survival or tumor stages. on the contrary, a good correlation was found between tumor grades and dna ploidy in the controls. we conclude that renal oncocytoma is a clinically benign tumor, yet it may exhibit varying degrees of flow cytometric dna abnormalities, which have no predictive value on survival and probably reflect the characteristics of oncocytes rather than its malignant potential.
bone marrow transplantation for myelodysplasia and secondary acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia. twenty-three patients with primary myelodysplasia (mds) or secondary myelodysplasia/acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (mds/anll) were treated with allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation (bmt). only one patient was in a chemotherapy-induced hematologic remission. graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis included methotrexate, methotrexate plus cyclosporine, cyclosporine, or t-cell depletion using one of two anti-cd5 monoclonal antibodies. for patients with primary mds, the median age was 19 years (range, 11 to 41 years) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 56% +/- 21% (median follow-up, 2 years; range, 0.8 to 5 years). there were three graft failures (two with autologous recovery) and two early deaths. outcome appeared to be related to french-american-british (fab) classification. for patients with secondary mds/anll, the median age was 28 years (range, 3 to 16 years) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 27% +/- 13% (median follow-up, 5 years; range, 2.5 to 8.5 years). there were no graft failures, two relapses, and four early deaths. the presence of marrow fibrosis per se did not predict for graft failure (p = .21); however, the use of t-cell depleted marrow in patients with marrow fibrosis resulted in graft failure in three of five individuals. our results suggest that in patients with primary mds or secondary mds/anll, bmt should be considered early in the course of the disease, and that attempts at inducing a remission prior to bmt appeared to be unnecessary. in mds patients with marrow fibrosis, t-cell depletion should be avoided.
prostaglandins, the kidney, and hypertension prostaglandins are part of the family of oxygenated metabolites of arachidonic acid known collectively as eicosanoids. while they are formed, act, and are inactivated locally and rarely circulate in plasma, they can affect blood flow in some tissues and so might contribute to the control of peripheral vascular resistance. few studies have shown any derangement of total body prostaglandin synthesis or metabolism in hypertension, but increased renal synthesis of one prostanoid, thromboxane a2, has been noted in spontaneously hypertensive rats and some hypertensive humans. this potent vasoconstrictor may account for the increased renal vascular resistance and suppressed plasma renin activity seen in many patients with hypertension. increased renal vascular resistance could increase the blood pressure directly as a component of total peripheral resistance or indirectly by increasing glomerular filtration fraction and tubular sodium reabsorption. specific thromboxane synthesis inhibitors not only decrease renal thromboxane production but also increase renal vasodilator prostaglandin synthesis when prostaglandin synthesis is stimulated. this redirection of renal prostaglandin synthesis toward prostacyclin might be of benefit in correcting a fundamental renal defect in patients with hypertension.
immunologic aspects of carbamazepine treatment in epileptic patients. immune abnormalities have been found in epileptic patients receiving antiepileptic drugs (aeds). phenytoin (pht) produces a decrease in serum iga and igm levels and a decrease in blastic transformation of circulating lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemoagglutinin (pha). the effects of carbamazepine (cbz) on the immune response are still conflicting. to elucidate the effects of cbz on some immunologic parameters, serum concentrations of iga, igg, igm, the phagocytosis and killing properties of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (pmns), the cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells and the response of lymphocytes to mitogenic agents were studied. forty healthy individuals and 39 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine (cbz) monotherapy (age range 18-40 years) entered the study. student's t test was used to evaluate the data. cbz had no effect on the serum immunoglobulin concentrations or on lymphocytic reactivity to phytohemoagglutinin (pha) mitogen. cbz produced a significant enhancement of phagocytosis and killing properties of pmns and an increase in natural killer (nk) cell activity. therefore, a negative effect of cbz therapy on the immune system was not observed in this study.
oral dissolution therapy for cholelithiasis: mix and match. the authors conducted a prospective, randomized trial of chenodeoxycholic and ursodeoxycholic acid versus ursodeoxycholic acid alone in patients with cholelithiasis to determine their efficacy for dissolution of gallstones. one hundred and twenty patients with radiolucent gallstones, less than or equal to 15 mm and who had a functioning gallbladder were enrolled. the patients were divided into two groups based on the diameter of their largest stones. seventy patients had stones larger than 5 mm but less than 15 mm, whereas 50 patients had stones that measured 5 mm or less. the patients were randomly assigned to treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid plus ursodeoxycholic acid (5 mm/kg of each) or ursodeoxycholic acid (10 mm/kg) alone. oral cholecystography, plain abdominal x-rays, and ultrasonography of the gallbladder were done at 6, 12, and 24 months. dissolution was deemed to be complete if not stones were visualized on two examinations. partial dissolution was defined as a 50% reduction in stone size and/or number. stones that were not detected by cholecystography but still detected during ultrasonography were considered to be partially dissolved. plasma triglycerides, serum cholesterol, hdl, and serologic liver function tests were determined at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. in a select group of patients, bile-rich duodenal aspirates were aspirated and analyzed for biliary lipid contents. in the group with small stones, defined as less than or equal to 5 mm, complete stone dissolution occurred significantly more often utilizing combination therapy at 6 months (52% vs 24%), and this trend persisted, although no longer significant, at 12 and 24 months. combination therapy also achieved an improved rate of dissolution for large stones within 6 months; however, this did not persist at 12 and 24 months. although not statistically significant, stone calcification occurred less often with combined therapy. all treatment regimens were well tolerated, with only minor changes in bowel habits and mild elevations in serum transaminase levels. serum lipid levels did not change with either therapy. the authors concluded that the combination of chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid was the preferred therapy for gallstone dissolution, because it dissolves stones more rapidly, with a lower incidence of stone calcifications, and thus might reduce the long-term cost of treatment.
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of nimodipine in acute stroke. trust study group. the value of oral nimodipine 120 mg per day for acute stroke was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre study of 1215 patients. the primary end-point was independence after 6 months, defined as a score of 60 or more on an activities of daily living (adl) scale, the barthel index. patients were entered into the trial if they were aged over 40, became hemiparetic in the previous 48 h, were conscious, were able to swallow, and had been living independently before the stroke. at 6 months, 55% of the nimodipine group and 58% of the placebo group were independent, the odds ratio for independence on nimodipine being 0.88 (95% confidence limits 0.70-1.10). for mortality the odds ratio with nimodipine was 1.22 (95% confidence limits 0.95-1.57). adl and neurological scores also suggested delayed recovery in the nimodipine group at 3 weeks. the results do not support the case for oral nimodipine therapy 120 mg per day starting within 48 h of the stroke, for patients with acute stroke.
the single-breath nitrogen test, mortality, and cancer. the relationship between indices of the single-breath nitrogen test and mortality, overall cancer incidence, and respiratory cancer incidence was examined in a cohort of 876 men, 46 to 69 yr of age, examined in 1974 and followed until june 1985. closing volume, closing capacity, and slope of phase iii were not related to mortality or cancer. in contrast, fev1 was related to mortality, with an estimated relative mortality risk of 1.37 (95% confidence interval, 1.11 to 1.70) per liter under the expected fev1, given height, age, and smoking, but fev1 was not related to cancer. inability to perform acceptable single-breath nitrogen test tracings was related to mortality with a relative mortality risk of 2.03 (1.45 to 2.85), but not to cancer. we conclude that indices of the single-breath nitrogen test have no predictive value concerning overall mortality and cancer incidence.
value and limitations of doppler pressure half-time in quantifying mitral stenosis: a comparison with micromanometer catheter recordings. the purpose of this study was to compare the doppler and catheterization pressure half-time methods of estimating mitral valve area with valve areas obtained by the gorlin equation in a group of patients with clinically significant mitral stenosis. data were analyzed from 67 consecutive patients who were undergoing continuous-wave doppler examination and catheterization with micromanometer catheters. doppler pressure half-time was calculated as the interval between peak transmitral velocity and velocity divided by the square root of 2, as measured from the outer border of the spectral envelope. doppler mitral valve area (mva) was obtained with the equation: mva = 220 divided by pressure half-time. for catheterization data, the pressure half-time was measured directly from simultaneously recorded left ventricular and left atrial pressure (18 patients) or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (49 patients). the catheterization half-time was taken as the time required for the peak pressure gradient to fall to one half of the initial value. calculations of the mitral valve area at catheterization were obtained by the gorlin equation with pressure gradient and cardiac output determinations. mitral valve area as determined by the gorlin equation for all cases ranged from 0.4 to 2.0 (mean = 1.03 +/- 0.37) cm2. linear regression analysis that compared cardiac catheterization and doppler half-times yielded r = 0.68. for the subgroup of patients with sinus rhythm, the correlation improved to r = 0.76.
saphenous nerve entrapment caused by pes anserine bursitis mimicking stress fracture of the tibia. numerous studies have addressed saphenous nerve entrapment at the level of the adductor canal. in this case, we report an entrapment syndrome located further distally occurring as part of an athletic overuse injury. distal tibial pain, initially managed as a stress fracture, resolved when a pes anserine bursitis was treated. this was associated with return of saphenous nerve potentials along the tibia.
a nongastrin malignant ampullary tumor causing gastric acid and pepsin hypersecretion. a case report. we report a case of multiple duodenal ulcers with gastric hypersecretion due to a nongastrin secretagogue produced by a malignant tumor of the pancreas in a 78-year-old man. the case resembled a zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) with high acid output (basal acid output 27, sham meal-stimulated 37, maximum acid output 47 meq/h), but with fasting gastrin 43 pg/ml, nonresponsive to secretin. as in zes, pepsin output was comparatively low, and secretion was inhibitable by atropine (50% inhibited by 1 microm). the tumor removed at surgery contained less than 1 ng gastrin per gram, but was many times more potent than pentagastrin in stimulating acid from a lumen-perfused rat stomach. the tumor also contained cholecystokinin (cck-8 and cck-33), motilin, insulin, and somatostatin, which were also present in adjacent normal pancreas; in addition, the tumor contained pancreatic polypeptide and pancreatic cancer-associated antigen. this case represents a rare syndrome due to an as yet undefined peptide secreted by a (frequently malignant) pancreatic endocrine tumor and masquerading as zes. this is the first report of studies of pepsin secretion and of the effect of atropine, suggesting that the physiologic effects of the secretagogue resemble that of gastrin.
study of neu-protein expression in mammary paget's disease with and without underlying breast carcinoma and in extramammary paget's disease. correlation between neu/c-erbb-2/her-2 gene amplification and overexpression of the neu gene product has been reported in tumors of glandular origin, especially ductal breast carcinomas. formalin-fixed and dewaxed sections from 23 cases of mammary (mpd) and 9 cases of extramammary (epd) paget's disease were immunohistochemically stained by means of the monoclonal antibody 3b5 directed against an intracellular domain of the neu gene protein. all mpds exhibited a distinct membrane staining of tumor cells independent of the presence of ductal breast carcinomas found in 18 cases. all these breast carcinomas also were positive for neu staining. in contrast to mpd, all epds were negative. normal epidermis was always negative. northern blot analysis sustained the immunohistologic findings in that the presence of neu mrna could be demonstrated in two of three cases with mpd. negativity in one case was due to dilution effects by nontumor cells. our results suggest that paget cells of mammary and extramammary localization, although very similar phenotypically, derive from different genetic accidents. furthermore neu positivity in all mpds and all underlying ductal carcinomas suggests common genetic alterations for both tumors. however the finding of five neu protein-positive mpds without associated ductal breast carcinomas may suggest a somewhat different transformation process.
surgical correction of recurrent venous ulcer. seventy-six limbs from 46 patients with comparable superficial and deep venous valve incompetence underwent surgical correction for recurrent venous ulcers of the leg that were refractory to various modes of nonsurgical and surgical treatments. a follow-up of 10 to 73 months (mean = 37 months), revealed the venous ulcer healed with perforator ligation and saphenous vein stripping in 14 of 33 (44%), stripping plus valvuloplasty 17 of 21 (80%), stripping plus vein transposition 11 of 14 (78%) and stripping plus valve transplantation 6 of 8 (75%). in patients with incompetent deep venous valve and perforators, the disassociation of the superficial from the deep venous system (stripping) plus correction of the deep venous valvular incompetence (valvuloplasty, transposition or valve transplant) produced superior results in the treatment of recurrent venous ulcer when compared to perforator ligation and saphenous vein stripping alone (p less than 0.005). adjunctive usage of elastic stockings and intermittent compression pneumatic boots in the perioperative period was helpful in controlling leg swelling and promoting wound healing.
headache: a marker of depression patients who presented with a chief complaint of headache in the outpatient family practice setting were found to have a high prevalence of depression (63%) by the zung self-rating depression scale (sds) index. a statistically significant relationship was found between the frequency of headaches (p = .03) with level of depression. in fact, 74% of patients with headaches recurring almost every day had a clinically significant depression diagnosed as defined by the zung sds score. the zung sds score also correlated with the length of time that the problem of headache existed (p less than .05). item analysis of the individual 20-item depression score revealed that four questions accounted for 93% of the variance. this analysis suggests that shorter, more abbreviated screening questions could be developed and refined in the future for use by the busy clinician. headache is an important marker for depression in the primary care setting. it can be inferred from this study that the clinician may need to focus more on treating the entity of depression than on treating just the symptom of headache.
aspirin in the primary prevention of angina pectoris in a randomized trial of united states physicians. purpose: the objective of this study was to examine the effect of low-dose aspirin (325 mg on alternate days) on the primary prevention of angina pectoris in the united states physicians' health study. despite a postulated role of platelets in atherogenesis and myocardial ischemia, the effect of chronic platelet inhibition on the development of clinical angina pectoris is unknown. subjects and methods: the physicians' health study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial among 22,071 male physicians aged 40 to 84 years, free from previous myocardial infarction, stroke, and transient cerebral ischemia at entry, and followed for an average of 60.2 months. the 21,738 physicians who were also free from angina pectoris at baseline constituted the study population for the present analyses. results: during 106,652 person-years of follow-up, 331 patients with confirmed angina pectoris were diagnosed, 194 of whom underwent a coronary revascularization procedure (coronary artery bypass graft surgery or coronary angioplasty). as compared to participants assigned placebo, the relative risk of confirmed angina pectoris in the aspirin group was 1.10 (95% confidence interval [ci], 0.88 to 1.38). for coronary revascularization, the relative risk was 1.19 (95% ci, 0.88 to 1.59). after simultaneous control for other coronary risk factors in a proportional-hazards model, these relative risks remained near unity at 1.07 (95% ci, 0.84 to 1.36) and 1.11 (95% ci, 0.81 to 1.52), respectively. when the risks of angina pectoris were examined according to year of randomization in the trial, there was no pattern of increasing benefit with longer duration of treatment. conclusion: these randomized trial data indicate that chronic platelet inhibition with low-dose aspirin for an average duration of 60.2 months does not reduce the incidence of angina pectoris.
anorectal varices--their frequency in cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. anorectal varices in portal hypertension have been little studied: seventy eight per cent of 72 patients with portal hypertension had anorectal varices shown at flexible sigmoidoscopy. significantly more patients with noncirrhotic portal hypertension had these varices than patients with cirrhosis (89% v 56%, p less than 0.01).
anaphylactoid reactions during hemodialysis on an69 membranes in patients receiving ace inhibitors. we report five life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions occurring within the very first minutes of hemodialysis on polyacrylonitrile (an69) capillary dialyzers in three patients receiving ace inhibitors. such reactions were not observed either in patients treated with ace inhibitors but dialyzed on other membranes (n = 9), nor in patients on an69 who did not receive ace inhibitors (n = 19). these anaphylactoid reactions could be due to bradykinin accumulation, as a result of both increased synthesis--by interaction of blood with the an69 polymer--and catabolism blockade by ace inhibitors.
third ventricle cavernous angioma: report of two cases. cavernous angioma arising in the third ventricle is an extremely rare disease. we have reviewed five cases previously reported, as well as our own two cases, and discuss the clinical characteristics of and surgical approach to cavernous angioma at this site. the bifrontal craniotomy and interhemispheric translamina terminalis approach minimize the damage to the brain and allow for an approach to the third ventricle in a wide operative field with minimal compression of the brain itself. we have found this approach to be suitable for surgery on angiomas of the anterior half of the third ventricle.
bimanual simultaneous motor performance and impaired ability to shift attention in parkinson's disease. the ability to share time and to shift attention between bimanual simultaneous motor tasks were studied in 18 patients with parkinson's disease (pd) and 19 age- and intelligence-matched controls. the task consisted of drawing triangles with the dominant hand and squeezing a rubber bulb with the nondominant hand. motor performance was measured using the variables: amplitude of squeezing, frequency of squeezing and velocity of drawing triangles. after eliminating variance due to baseline differences in single-handed performance, the bimanual simultaneous performance of pd and controls turned out to be similar to the frequency of squeezing and the velocity of drawing triangles. the amplitude of squeezing, however, differed between the two groups: it was significantly reduced in pd. arguably the disturbance in the bimanual performance of pd patients was not due to a disorder of time sharing, but to a decreased ability to shift attention from the visually cued task to the non visually cued task. the results agree with current evidence that pd patients are more impaired when they have to rely upon internal control for the regulation of shifting attention than when external cues are available.
alternating cisplatinum and vac ineffective in end stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. sixteen patients with end stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were admitted to a phase ii study of alternating courses of cisplatinum (100 mg/m2) and vac (vincristine 1.4 mg/m2, adriamycin 50 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2) given at three weekly intervals. only two patients achieved a response (12 per cent). the median survival time was 62 days which is much the same as that of a similar group of patients who received no chemotherapy in a previous trial (70 days).
fibrin- and fibrinogen-related antigens in patients with venous disease and venous ulceration. abnormalities in systemic fibrinolysis have been implicated in the pathogenesis of venous ulceration. patients with venous disease have a prolonged euglobulin lysis time and elevated plasma fibrinogen levels, yet little is known about the metabolism of fibrinogen and fibrin in such patients. in this study, we have used a technique that involves electrophoresis and densitometric analysis of captured fibrin-related antigens to measure the concentration and proportions of the individual fibrin and fibrinogen degradation products in patients with venous disease of the lower extremity. as a group, patients with venous disease had markedly elevated levels of total fibrin-related antigen and d-dimer, the terminal degradation product of cross-linked fibrin. levels of d-monomer, the breakdown product of fibrinogen and non-cross-linked fibrin monomer, and a measure of fibrinogenolysis were normal in all patients. in patients with ulcers, the levels of d-dimer were disproportionately higher than expected from fibrin monomer levels. on an individual basis, significant elevations of d-dimer were present in six (55%) of the 11 patients with venous disease with ulcers and in three (43%) of the seven patients with venous disease without ulcers. we conclude that patients with venous disease have uniform evidence for enhanced fibrin formation, as evidenced by elevated levels of total fibrin-related antigen and d-dimer. this is regardless of whether the venous disease is accompanied by ulceration.
the internist in the management of head and neck cancer. the general internist has an important role in the management of head and neck squamous cell cancers. this heterogeneous group of cancers must be accurately diagnosed and staged before planning treatment. curability is directly related to stage at presentation and, because most patients with such cancers present to internists first, these physicians must be familiar with presenting symptoms and must be suspicious enough to refer patients with symptoms for appropriate evaluation. the work-up of patients with suspected unknown primary cancer presenting as adenopathy is detailed, and the physician is cautioned not to immediately proceed to open biopsy. as many as 10% of such primary cancers remain undetected, although, with proper therapy, the 5-year survival rate for squamous cell cancer of the head and neck is 60%. those patients cured of head and neck cancer still face significant psychosocial and medical problems, including hypothyroidism, xerostomia, and a 20% rate of second primary cancer. head and neck cancer is highly preventable; 75% of cases are related to tobacco and alcohol use. smokeless tobacco has gained popularity among young americans and is associated with an increased incidence of head and neck cancer at several sites. education is crucial, and internists must seek strategies to stop patients from using tobacco products. other etiologic factors include industrial carcinogens, epstein-barr virus, and diet. retrospective serologic and dietary recall studies of vitamin a suggest an etiologic role of diet; vitamin a analogs have been tested in preneoplastic lesions. to reduce mortality from head and neck cancers, the general internist must play a central role in prevention and early detection.
prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio in arteriogenic impotence. it has been suggested that penile hypercoagulability predisposes to aging penile vascular changes and impotence, and that elevated thromboxane a2 during erection may contribute to hypercoagulability and atherosclerosis. since the ratio of the prostacyclin concentration to the thromboxane a2 concentration is constantly maintained in normal hemostatic responses, an imbalance between thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin may be a factor to initiate vascular diseases and decrease blood flow. we assess the usefulness of the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio in penile blood during erection for diagnosis of arteriogenic impotence. the ratio in the arteriogenic impotence group was significantly lower (p less than 0.01) than in the psychogenic and venogenic impotence groups. therefore, the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio seems to be useful to diagnose arteriogenic impotence.
the value of squamous cell carcinoma antigen in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy. serum levels of squamous cell carcinoma antigen were measured in 688 samples from 119 patients with cervical cancer. ninety-seven patients had primary tumors and 22 had recurrent disease. serum samples were obtained before each cycle of chemotherapy, before surgery, at least 4 weeks after surgery, and at 2- to 3-month intervals during follow-up from 78 of the patients with locally advanced cervical cancer who were receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy. squamous cell carcinoma antigen serum levels were elevated (greater than 2.5 ng/ml) in 71% of the patients with primary tumors and in 77% of the patients with recurrent carcinomas. the percentage of positivity increased significantly with stage (p = 0.03) and was higher in squamous cell tumors than in adenocarcinomas (p less than 0.001). pretreatment squamous cell carcinoma antigen levels were not predictive of neoadjuvant chemotherapy response; however, the serial measurement during chemotherapy showed a good correlation with clinical response. in the patients who had surgery, squamous cell carcinoma antigen positivity did not correlate to pathologic findings (lymph node status, cervical and parametrial infiltration). disease-free survival was significantly longer in patients with squamous cell carcinoma antigen pretreatment values that were lower than 5 ng/ml, compared with patients with marker higher than 5 ng/ml (p less than 0.01). abnormal squamous cell carcinoma antigen serum levels preceded the clinical detection of recurrence in eight of 11 patients with a median lead time of 5 months.
factor xiii deficiency and intracranial hemorrhages in infancy. we report an infant with factor xiii deficiency who had 2 seemingly spontaneous intracranial hemorrhages. it is important to consider factor xiii deficiency as a possible cause of unexplained intracranial hemorrhages in infancy. ongoing factor replacement therapy is recommended to prevent further bleeding episodes.
catastrophic thrombosis of porcine aortic bioprostheses. hemodynamically critical thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position without thrombotic predisposition is rare. two patients at our institution abruptly manifested thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position within 3 months of implantation without apparent predisposing factors. clinicians should consider this rare but catastrophic complication in the appropriate setting.
cochlear implants as a contraindication to magnetic resonance imaging. magnetic resonance imaging poses little risk to the majority of patients undergoing scanning. however, cochlear implantation should pose a contraindication to this imaging process. this conclusion is based on several findings of in vitro testing of three cochlear implants: the 3m/house and 3m/vienna designs and the nucleus device. specifically, tremendous torques are generated by each of these devices when they are introduced into the coil of a magnetic resonance imager; in addition, the 3m products not only were noted to induce an electrical current, but also were significantly magnetized and rendered afunctional. the clinical implications are discussed.
ogilvie's syndrome. would you recognize it? numerous conditions predispose to ogilvie's syndrome, a process that mimics bowel obstruction. characteristic radiographic findings of acute pseudo-obstruction include dilatation of the cecum and the remainder of the colon but not the small intestine. treatment is individualized. massive cecal dilatation carries the risk of cecal perforation and its attendant high mortality rate. conservative therapies, such as nasogastric suction, gentle enemas, and use of a rectal tube, may be beneficial. decompression by colonoscopy or other means may be necessary.
evolving natural history of coronary artery disease in diabetes mellitus. white diabetic patients are at high risk of developing coronary artery disease (cad). the natural history of cad in insulin-dependent (id) and noninsulin-dependent (nid) diabetes mellitus (dm) is reviewed to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of premature or accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetic patients. in both iddm and niddm, the risk of cad increases with lengthening duration of diabetes; the risk, however, does not grow as a constant multiple of the nondiabetic risk of cad, suggesting that the cumulative exposure to diabetes plays a significant role as a risk factor for cad only in a subset of patients. this is consistent with the hypothesis that the diabetic milieu has an impact on the progression of atherosclerotic lesions but not on their initiation. this hypothesis is corroborated further by the observation that cad does not occur in diabetic patients in populations with a low risk of cad among nondiabetic patients. the component of the diabetic milieu responsible for promotion of atherosclerotic lesions is unknown. there is evidence, however, of a direct or indirect role of hyperinsulinemia in this process.
effects of doxazosin on serum lipids: a review of the clinical data and molecular basis for altered lipid metabolism. the goal of antihypertensive treatment must be not only the reduction of high blood pressure, but also the effective management of elevated cholesterol levels and other risk factors of coronary heart disease (chd). in controlled clinical trials, doxazosin has been shown to have antihypertensive efficacy comparable with other classes of antihypertensive agents and to lower the levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, and triglycerides while increasing the levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. doxazosin appears to inhibit the development of chd on two fronts. first, doxazosin binds to the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor and inhibits the receptor-mediated responses to epinephrine and norepinephrine. second, doxazosin has direct and indirect effects on lipid metabolism by increasing ldl receptor activity, decreasing intracellular ldl synthesis, reducing the synthesis and secretion of very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and stimulating lipoprotein lipase activity. doxazosin may also inhibit platelet aggregation. long-term studies will determine how these actions translate into reductions in the morbidity and mortality rates of chd. first-year results from the treatment of mild hypertension study (tomhs) have demonstrated expected reductions in blood pressure for all antihypertensive agents studied. the lipid changes have varied with the type of antihypertensive treatment and have been favorable for doxazosin.
the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome [published erratum appears in ann intern med 1991 jun 1;114(11):993] objective: to characterize an unusual mode of presentation of systemic lupus erythematosus: acute and severe pancytopenia related to reactive hemophagocytosis. design: retrospective case series. setting: two general community hospitals in hong kong. patients: six patients presenting with a reactive hemophagocytic syndrome, identified over a 3.5 year period, diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus according to the criteria of the american rheumatism association. results: in addition to severe pancytopenia and marrow hemophagocytosis, other characteristic features were fever, hypocomplementemia, high antinuclear antibody titer, and cutaneous and visceral vasculitis. there was no evidence of an underlying infection. the pancytopenia responded dramatically to treatment with steroids. conclusion: recognition of the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome and distinction from an infection-associated hemophagocytic syndrome is important because it responds well to steroid therapy. the evaluation of patients presenting with a hemophagocytic syndrome should include serologic tests for systemic lupus erythematosus.
dietary management of acute childhood diarrhea: optimal timing of feeding and appropriate use of milks and mixed diets. several recent clinical trials have examined the optimal timing of feeding and the appropriate foods for use in the dietary management of acute childhood diarrhea. important methodologic issues relevant to these trials, such as the composition and masking of study diets, measurement of outcome variables, and assessment of nutritional status, are discussed. available data suggest that feeding should be continued during diarrhea, although a small subgroup of patients receiving nonhuman milk exclusively may have an excess rate of complications. these children should be closely supervised or provided with alternative diets. by contrast, children receiving human milk, nonmilk formulas, and mixed diets are generally able to tolerate these foods and to benefit nutritionally from continued feeding.
limb salvage in pediatric surgery. the use of the expandable prosthesis. limb sparing in growing children has proved to be very effective from an oncologic perspective, with good, long-term acceptance by the patients. as in the adult, when performed by experienced surgeons, limb sparing neither compromises the survival rate nor significantly increases the local recurrence rate, compared with cross-bone amputation. discussions include patient evaluation, surgical options, materials and methods, and results.
antihypertensive therapy. to stop or not to stop? the benefits of continuous antihypertensive therapy have been extensively documented. however, lack of compliance with the prescribed regimen, excessive cost, and troublesome adverse effects of some antihypertensive agents led to the consideration of intermittent therapy or even complete discontinuation of therapy as an effective alternative to lifelong medication. prospective studies dealing with this subject reported inconsistent results. nevertheless, they allowed us to identify selection criteria of candidates for step-down or discontinuation of antihypertensive therapy. such candidates include patients with mild essential hypertension who have one or more of the following characteristics: young age, normal body weight, low salt intake, no alcohol consumption, low pretreatment blood pressure, successful therapy with one drug only, and no or only minimal signs of target organ damage. stopping antihypertensive therapy without subsequent rise in arterial pressure was shown to be possible in a subset of patients with mild essential hypertension for a period of months to years. this approach appears to be safe, provided that blood pressure is monitored frequently, and may improve compliance, save treatment costs, and reduce adverse effects of certain drugs, although its long-term consequences for morbidity and mortality remain to be determined.
ceftriaxone-sulbactam combination in rabbit endocarditis caused by a strain of klebsiella pneumoniae producing extended-broad-spectrum tem-3 beta-lactamase. we studied the activity of the combination of sulbactam and ceftriaxone against a klebsiella pneumoniae strain producing tem-3, a new extended-broad-spectrum beta-lactamase, in an endocarditis model. in vitro, ceftriaxone was strongly inactivated in the presence of tem-3 (mbc, 128 micrograms/ml with an inoculum of 5 x 10(5) cfu/ml). a marked inoculum effect was demonstrated with sulbactam: effective concentrations of inhibitor needed to reduce the mic and mbc of ceftriaxone to similar levels increased from 1 microgram/ml in the presence of an inoculum of 5 x 10(5) cfu/ml to 20 micrograms/ml in the presence of an inoculum of 1 x 10(7) cfu/ml. in vivo, sulbactam given at 200 mg/kg of body weight every 12 h, a dosage higher than that previously reported to be effective against rabbit endocarditis caused by other microorganisms, was not sufficient to restore the complete activity of ceftriaxone given at 30 mg/kg once daily for 4 days. this insufficient activity may be correlated with the presence of a high level of beta-lactamase inside the vegetations, as indicated by a quantitative in vitro assay of beta-lactamase activity in the cardiac vegetation, suggesting an insufficient inactivation of the extended-broad-spectrum beta-lactamase in vivo.
bronchobiliary fistula detected by cholescintigraphy. we present a case of a bronchobiliary fistula initially detected by hepatobiliary scintigraphy. the patient developed bilioptysis 18 mo after undergoing a right hepatic lobectomy and resection of the common bile duct for cholangiocarcinoma. the procedure was complicated by the development of a subphrenic abscess that required percutaneous biliary drainage.
smooth muscle cell proliferation and restenosis after stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty it has been shown that coronary excimer laser angioplasty can remove atherosclerotic intracoronary tissue. stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty was successfully performed in a 53 year old white man with 90% stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery and exertional angina (canadian cardiovascular society class iii). the lesion was reduced to a 30% residual stenosis with use of a 1.2 mm and subsequently a 1.8 mm diameter laser catheter. early follow-up angiography 24 h later revealed persistent patency and unchanged lesion diameter of the target vessel. the patient was free of symptoms during the 2 month follow-up period, but died suddenly while playing in a tennis tournament 63 days after the procedure. postmortem histologic examination revealed 80% restenosis at the lesion site without plaque disruption or thrombosis. specific staining of the histologic specimen for smooth muscle cells using alpha-actin revealed significant smooth muscle cell proliferation at the site of coronary excimer laser angioplasty. however, most of the vessel narrowing appeared to be due to underlying fibrotic plaque as a result of insufficient tissue ablation. this was probably related to the size of the currently available catheters, which are too small to create a large channel.
myeloma of the head of the pancreas. a case report. a 45-year-old man was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, iga-kappa, in 1975. thirteen years later he presented with obstructive jaundice. computed tomography (ct) showed a 6-cm mass in the head of the pancreas. needle aspiration showed myeloma. the jaundice resolved after treatment with radiotherapy. extraosseous involvement by myeloma is frequently found at autopsy but obstructive jaundice from myeloma of the head of the pancreas is quite rare. this atypical complication of myeloma may be related to the patient's long survival.
toxic epidermal necrolysis after bone marrow transplantation: study of nine cases. acute graft-versus-host reaction after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been reported to induce toxic epidermal necrolysis. to assess the respective role of acute graft-versus-host disease and of drug reaction in this setting, we retrospectively reviewed nine cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis that occurred in a series of 152 allogenic bone marrow recipients. in five cases visceral involvement was suggestive of acute graft-versus-host disease without any drug more than "doubtfully" suspected. in four cases extracutaneous symptoms were absent or mild and suspect drugs (mainly sulfonamides) had been administered with a timing suggestive of "possible" causality. all nine patients died, mainly from infection possibly aggravated by high doses of corticosteroids. we conclude that toxic epidermal necrolysis may be more frequent than generally thought after bone marrow transplantation and has a poor prognosis. it seems to be related to a drug reaction to sulfonamides as often as to acute graft-versus-host disease.
a comparison of hospital costs and morbidity between octogenarians and other patients undergoing general surgical operations. the hospital costs and clinical results of 304 patients who were more than 80 years old and who underwent general surgical procedures were evaluated. the over-all mortality rate was 14 per cent; 19.9 per cent occurred in patients admitted under emergency conditions as compared with 8.9 per cent that occurred in patients undergoing elective procedures (p less than 0.001). seventy-nine per cent of the patients were discharged and 7 per cent required care in a skilled nursing facility. survival rates were as good or better than standard life table survival rates for 80 year old patients. costs were higher in those who were admitted under emergent conditions or who died in the hospital. deaths were a result of complications of the primary disease rather than associated disease in most groups. neither costs nor length of stay could accurately predict survival of individual patients. we concluded that health resources should be directed at treating problems, such as cholelithiasis, hernia or carcinoma, early before complications develop.
the effects of phenylephrine on right ventricular performance in patients with pulmonary hypertension pulmonary hypertension causes right ventricular ischemia and failure as a result of increased afterload combined with reduced coronary blood flow. increasing coronary driving pressure by raising aortic pressure with phenylephrine has been shown to reverse right ventricular ischemia from pulmonary hypertension in animals. since vasodilators often fail to reduce afterload, we tested whether raising the coronary driving pressure would improve right ventricular function in man. ten patients with pulmonary hypertension had hemodynamics and right ventricular coronary driving pressure measured before and 10 minutes after a steady state was reached with a phenylephrine infusion titrated to raise aortic pressure by 25 percent. phenylephrine caused a significant (p less than .01) increase in mean aortic pressure (84 to 108 mm hg) and right ventricular coronary driving pressure (46 to 69 mm hg). in response, there was a significant (p less than .01) rise in mean pulmonary artery pressure (58 to 67 mm hg), right ventricular end-diastolic pressure (10 to 16 mm hg) and wedge pressure (5 to 9 mm hg), and an insignificant fall in cardiac output (3.26 to 3.09 l/min) and pulmonary artery o2 saturation (57 to 49 percent). although phenylephrine increased right ventricular coronary driving pressure, it worsened right ventricular function as manifest by a rise in end-diastolic pressure and fall in cardiac output. any benefit of raising right ventricular coronary driving pressure may have been offset by alpha vasoconstriction of right ventricular coronary blood flow and/or pulmonary arterial vasoconstriction. phenylephrine does not appear to be a useful therapy of right ventricular failure from pulmonary hypertension in patients who fail vasodilators.
recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses. the incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years. the first 32 months served as a control period. during the second period of 31 months, recombinant human erythropoietin (epoetin) was used for an average duration of 13 months (range, 2-32 months) in 79 patients. the overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period. distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods, with 55% to 60% of patients having no clotting episode. patients with recurrent clotting (two or more events) accounted for 68% of episodes. during the second period, there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients (0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year, both slightly lower than in period 1 [0.52 events per patient-year]). it is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting.
effects of atenolol alone, nifedipine alone and their combination on ambulant myocardial ischemia. the effects of atenolol (100 mg/day) and nifedipine (20 mg 3 times daily) and their combination on ambulant myocardial ischemia were investigated using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. eighteen men with symptomatic coronary artery disease, exercise-induced ischemia and minimal symptoms, underwent 4 blinded treatment periods of 2 weeks' duration (2 placebo, 1 atenolol, 1 nifedipine). those that did not have ischemia eliminated by monotherapy received combination therapy with both drugs. forty-eight-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring was used to quantitate ischemic parameters at the end of each period. both nifedipine and atenolol as monotherapy reduced the number of ischemic episodes and the average duration of each episode compared with placebo (p less than 0.05). compared with placebo, nifedipine reduced the total duration of ischemia (p less than 0.05) but the effect of atenolol on ischemia duration was of borderline significance (p = 0.066). there were no differences in reduction of ischemic parameters when atenolol was compared with nifedipine (difference not significant). in the 9 patients who continued to have ischemia with monotherapy, combination therapy eliminated it in 2 and reduced the duration by greater than 50% in the remaining patients compared with placebo. in conclusion, monotherapy with nifedipine or atenolol is similarly effective in eliminating or reducing ambulant ischemia. combination therapy can provide additional benefit in those with continued ischemia.
the role of carotid screening before coronary artery bypass. five hundred thirty-nine patients with no symptoms of cerebral ischemia undergoing coronary artery bypass were preoperatively evaluated for presence of carotid stenosis by noninvasive methods (duplex scanning and ocular pneumoplethysmography-gee). overall prevalence of carotid stenosis greater than 75% was higher (8.7%) than that generally reported. age greater than 60 years was significantly related to presence of carotid stenosis greater than 75% (11.3% vs 3.8%, p = 0.003). risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking were not predictive for carotid stenosis, postoperative stroke, or death. carotid stenosis greater than 75% (odds ratio 9.87, p less than 0.005) and coronary artery bypass redo (odds ratio 5.26, p less than 0.05) were both independent predictors of stroke risk. patients were divided into four groups: group 1, minimal or mild degree of carotid stenosis (less than 50%), not submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (432 patients, 80.1%); group 2, moderate degree of stenosis (50% to 75%), no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (60 patients, 11.2%); group 3, severe carotid stenosis; (greater than 75%), submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (19 patients, 3.5%), group 4, severe carotid stenosis (greater than 75%) no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (28 patients, 5.2%). patients in group 4 had significantly higher stroke rate (14.3%) compared to the other three groups (1.1%) (p = 0.0019). the finding of carotid stenosis greater than 75% in patients over 60 years of age was associated with occurrence of stroke in 15% of cases. carotid screening is helpful to determine patients at increased risk of stroke and should be performed in patients greater than 60 years.
serum creatinine: an independent predictor of survival after stroke. we prospectively studied the relationship between serum creatinine and survival among 492 elderly subjects admitted for stroke and monitored for a mean period of 18 months post-stroke. in multivariate proportional hazards models, serum creatinine remained an independent predictor of mortality (p = 0.0001) after accounting for other important predictors such as level of consciousness. mini-mental state score, age, leucocyte count, presence of heart disease, diabetes, heart failure, atrial fibrillation and use of cardiovascular medication. this association between elevated serum creatinine and mortality was also found in patient subgroups with ct-proven infarction and intracerebral haematoma. it is concluded that serum creatinine is an independent predictor of survival after stroke. further studies are required to confirm this relationship and to elucidate the underlying mechanism.
adrenal insufficiency in the cancer patient: implications for the surgeon. aspects of acute and chronic adrenal insufficiency of interest to surgeons who treat cancer patients are reviewed. clinical features and the management of both primary and secondary types are considered with reference to classification, aetiology, diagnosis and treatment. specifically considered are the management of patients with addison's disease and metastases. prompt recognition and treatment of adrenal insufficiency can avert potentially life-threatening situations.
computed tomography and the tnm classification of lung cancer. computed tomography (ct) of the thorax and upper abdomen was prospectively evaluated in 84 patients with potentially operable lung cancer. invasion into the thoracic wall and the mediastinal structures was not accurately demonstrated by ct. for metastatic mediastinal lymph nodes, the sensitivity and specificity of ct were, respectively, 86% and 61% and the positive and negative predictive indices 49% and 91%. for t1, t2 and t3 tumours the negative indices were 100%, 96% and 71%. positive predictive index did not differ between squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. adrenal metastases were ct-suspected in 17 cases and liver metastases in eight, but were verified by ultrasonography in only one and four cases. ct should be used in preoperative investigation of lung cancer, irrespective of stage. demonstration of thoracic-wall or mediastinal invasion need not exclude tumour resection. preoperative mediastinoscopy is indicated if ct shows nodal metastases or if there are signs of tumour invasion, but not in ct-negative t1 or t2 tumour. abdominal metastases indicated by ct should be investigated with ct-guided needle biopsy.
sinistral (left-sided) portal hypertension. between 1953 and 1988, 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis (svt), 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension (sph) were treated at our institution. svt was identified at autopsy in nine patients. twelve additional patients presented with sph: bleeding esophageal varices, svt and normal hepatic function. svt was caused by pancreatic neoplasm (5), chronic pancreatitis (5), and pancreatic pseudocyst (2). svt was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography, splenoportography, computerized tomography, and ultrasonography. gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy (10) and barium swallow (2). splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients. three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy. two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization, one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy. one splenectomized patient continued to bleed. no further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years. sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function. splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis. splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice.
endoscopic placement of a foley catheter across a stricture and rectovaginal fistula to perform a barium enema. evaluation of enteric fistulas is often best performed with barium contrast studies. clinical situations that preclude the satisfactory installation of barium decrease the yield of the study. a case is presented of a 59-yr-old female with stage iii-b cervical carcinoma and a known rectovaginal fistula with an adjacent sigmoid colon stricture. an additional more proximal, enteric fistula was suspected. definitive preoperative knowledge of the existence or absence of this fistula would have shortened the duration of a planned palliative intervention. the rectovaginal fistula and stricture precluded adequate barium and air installation for contrast study. colonoscopy was unsuccessful. we have developed a combined technique in which the endoscopic placement of a semirigid guidewire allowed placement of a foley catheter across the fistula and stricture. successful barium study was performed. intraoperative time and hospital stay were shortened.
choice of emergency operative procedure for bleeding duodenal ulcer in a consecutive series of 201 emergency operations in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer the size of the ulcer was the only factor that showed a significant correlation with the procedure chosen. vagotomy, pyloroplasty and underrunning of the bleeding point was performed in 101 cases with ten deaths (10 per cent), partial (billroth ii) gastrectomy in 81 cases with ten deaths (12 per cent), and vagotomy and antrectomy in 16 cases with one death (6 per cent). a patient was more likely to be treated by partial gastrectomy if a giant ulcer with an internal diameter of greater than or equal to 2 cm was found. the results suggest that while vagotomy and pyloroplasty, combined with a direct attack on the bleeding point or excision of an anterior ulcer is an acceptable standard emergency operation for bleeding duodenal ulcer, gastric resection proved to be a satisfactory alternative procedure and should be considered in the technically difficult case with a very large ulcer. a giant ulcer was present in 37 per cent of cases coming to surgery.
gallium uptake in tryptophan-related pulmonary disease. we describe a patient who developed fever, fatigue, muscle weakness, dyspnea, skin rash, and eosinophilia after taking "high doses" of tryptophan for insomnia for two years. a gallium-67 scan revealed diffuse increased uptake in the lung and no abnormal uptake in the muscular distribution. bronchoscopy and biopsy confirmed inflammatory reactions with infiltration by eosinophils, mast cells, and lymphocytes. ct scan showed an interstitial alveolar pattern without fibrosis. emg demonstrated diffuse myopathy. muscle biopsy from the right thigh showed an inflammatory myositis with eosinophilic and lymphocytic infiltrations.
coronary artery calcification detected by ct: clinical significance and angiographic correlates. cardiac computed tomography (ct) to detect coronary calcification was performed on 161 patients undergoing coronary angiography for proven or suspected coronary artery disease. among 108 patients in whom coronary calcifications was identified, 90% had significant coronary stenosis angiographically (greater than 75% stenosis), and 80% of 121 patients with significant coronary stenosis showed calcification by ct. the relationship between the calcification site and the significance in stenosis of each vessel was determined. calcification was present in 133 arteries among 205 stenotic coronary arteries (sensitivity = 65%) as compared with 59 of 439 entire arteries with normal coronary angiograms (specificity = 87%). in the younger age group the sensitivity of calcification for stenosis of each coronary artery was lower and the specificity and predictive value were generally higher than those in the elderly group. these results demonstrate that ct is a valuable procedure for detecting coronary arterial disease, since this examination is easy to conduct, noninvasive, and widely applicable for screening a large population.
blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer: the role of platelet derived growth factors. efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion. however, the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive. we have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon. using a human fibroblast: [125i]deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay, the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured. there was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 (n = 6) to day 28 (n = 6; p less than 0.001, mann-whitney u test). the effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in hooded lister rats. following an intraportal injection of 10(5) mc28 tumour cells, the experimental group (n = 25) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days. likewise, colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10(3) cells. the experimental groups (n = 20) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally (n = 19). there was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group (p less than 0.01). growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer.
does primary fibromyalgia exist? twenty-one of 25 consecutive primary fibromyalgia or fibrositis patients, identified during a 5-year period in a tertiary care day-ward for pain syndromes, were re-examined. fifteen fulfilled criteria for fibromyalgia but unexpectedly, all cases had either psychiatric disturbance or thyroid dysfunction. of the four patients not seen at follow-up, two had developed neurological diseases, another rheumatoid arthritis and one other hypothyroidism. thus, after 5 years no patient fulfilled the criteria for primary fibromyalgia. women occupied as manual workers were over-represented. most patients reported beneficial effects of physiotherapy. none of the patients has been able to return to full time work.
assessing clinical significance of apnea exceeding fifteen seconds with event recording. using event recording, we determined how often apnea exceeding 15 seconds in duration was associated with bradycardia and how often patients with apnea resumed breathing spontaneously. of 1306 documented apnea events exceeding 15 seconds (54 patients), 926 lasted 16 to 20 seconds, 262 lasted 21 to 25 seconds, and 118 exceeded 25 seconds. of these episodes, 75.3% were isolated and 14.9% were associated with pulse deceleration, 4.4% with irregular transthoracic impedance, and 5.4% with bradycardia. event recording provided data supporting discontinuation of monitoring in 50 of 54 patients: 36 spontaneously resumed breathing before the auditory alarm and 14 had a decreased incidence of apnea with maturation. follow-up of 51 patients (three not located) showed that none had subsequent apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome. our results in these older infants and children (median age 6.7 months) provide substantiation that such patients with apnea of less than 20 seconds without bradycardia do not require continued monitoring. further, these data suggest that in selected older infants, longer isolated apnea may be well tolerated; however, hemoglobin saturation during sleep and the ability to resume breathing after the apnea alarm delay is prolonged should be verified. our patient population had a wide age range and heterogeneity of diagnoses, and was typically free of symptoms, so these results should not be extrapolated uncritically to premature infants, infants with chronic lung disease, and patients with symptomatic apnea.
does use of gastroepiploic artery graft increase surgical risk? seventy patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was used for coronary artery bypass grafting were compared with 70 patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was not used. mean age was 56.8 years in the group in which this artery was used and 61.8 years in the group in which it was not (p less than 0.001). all other preoperative characteristics including number of women, extent of coronary artery disease, previous myocardial infarction, unstable angina, and preoperative left ventricular function were not significantly different between the two groups. an internal mammary artery graft was concomitantly used in 68 patients (97%) of the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in 61 patients (87%) without such a graft. the mean number of distal anastomoses was 3.3 and 3.4, aortic crossclamp time was 65.3 +/- 19.9 minutes and 54.0 +/- 20.1 minutes, and cardiopulmonary bypass time was 114.8 +/- 23.6 minutes and 112.9 +/- 25.0 minutes, respectively, in the groups with and without a gastroepiploic artery graft. only aortic crossclamp time was significantly (p less than 0.05) longer in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft. there were two (2.9%) early deaths and two (2.9%) new q-wave infarctions in both groups. intraaortic balloon pumping was required in five patients (7.1%) in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in three patients (4.3%) without this graft. postoperative complications were similar and rare in both groups. intraoperative endoscopic laser doppler study demonstrated no significant change of gastric mucosal blood flow before and after division of the gastroepiploic artery. we concluded that there is no additional risk in the use of the gastroepiploic artery for coronary bypass grafting, and a favorable outcome can be expected.
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm with hemoptysis. a 53-year-old man who had previously undergone resection of a left ventricular aneurysm was admitted because of hemoptysis. preoperative evaluation with computed tomographic scan and cardiac catheterization demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior ventricular wall measuring 16 cm in diameter with protrusion into the left hemithorax. the neck of the pseudoaneurysm was a defect in the ventricular wall extending from the base of the mitral valve annulus to the insertion of the posterior papillary muscle. operative repair was performed using an albumin-coated, low-porosity dacron patch.
actigraphic home-monitoring sleep-disturbed and control infants and young children: a new method for pediatric assessment of sleep-wake patterns. two studies were conducted to evaluate actigraphic home-monitoring for the assessment of infants' and children's sleep patterns. in the first study, 11 children (aged 12 to 48 months) were monitored in the laboratory by traditional polysomnography and by actigraphy for one night. actigraphic automatic sleep-wake scorings were compared with those of the polysomnograph; total agreement rate was 85.3%. in the second study, sleep patterns of 63 sleep-disturbed and 34 control healthy children (aged 9 to 27 months) were compared. these children were home-monitored by actigraph for a mean of 4.45 nights (total 482 nights). actigraphic data were analyzed by an automated scoring procedure. sleep quality of the sleep-disturbed children, measured by actigraphically derived sleep percent and number of longer-than-5-minute wakings, was significantly lower than that of the control subjects (p less than .0001). sleep measures showed significant night-to-night stability in both groups. the stability of specific measures and their age trends were different between the groups. actigraphic sleep measures alone could discriminate between sleep-disturbed and control children with a highly correct assignment rate of 79.4% and 91.2%, respectively.
chromatin structural analysis of the 5' end and contiguous flanking region of the myeloperoxidase gene. myeloperoxidase (mpo) synthesis is known to be associated with the promyelocyte stage of myeloid differentiation. in particular the downregulation of mpo gene transcription is associated with myeloid cell maturation. we examined the changes in the deoxyribonuclease i hypersensitive sites within the 5' end of the mpo gene and its 5' flanking region during dimethyl sulfoxide (dmso)-induced differentiation of hl-60 cells to determine the changes in chromatin structure that accompany this process. the locations of hypersensitive sites surrounding the 5' end of the gene in proliferating, uninduced cells were determined: three were observed in the 5' flanking region and one within the gene. progressive changes in all sites accompanied the downregulation of mpo transcription after treatment with dmso. no evidence of hypersensitivity was observed in the chromatin region examined after 8 days of dmso exposure. the results provide an example of the changes that occur in the chromatin structure of a gene as it is inactivated during differentiation.
lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus presenting as shoulder capsulitis. we describe three patients who presented with pain and restriction of movement at the shoulder suggestive of capsulitis, but proved to have lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus. it is important to be aware of the possibility of this cause of a 'frozen shoulder', since radiographs of the shoulder are usually cropped at the mid-humerus and lesions at this level may easily be missed. a radiograph of the entire humerus, or an isotope bone scan, may be more useful than repeated shoulder radiographs in patients whose shoulder symptoms do not respond to standard treatment.
quantification of leakage pressures after durotomy repairs in the canine. this study was undertaken to investigate the relative strengths of dural repair using standard suture techniques, suture supplemented with tissue adhesive, and tissue adhesive alone. uniform 2 mm dural defects were created in adult beagles, repaired, and then subjected to pressurization testing. defects repaired with suture alone initially leaked within the range of physiologic pressurization, while those supplemented with tissue adhesive or repaired with tissue adhesive alone failed at higher pressurization levels. histologic sections obtained from the dura treated with fibrin adhesive sealant demonstrated minimal inflammatory response not significantly different than those sections examined at sites repaired by suture alone. a new substance, fibrin adhesive sealant, appears to be useful in effecting dural repair due to its ability to withstand pressures greater than those obtained with suture alone.
continued need for pneumococcal prophylaxis after splenectomy two children died from pneumococcal infection five and eight years after splenectomy. pneumococcal vaccination had not been given to either child. when the infection developed both children were not taking prophylactic penicillin. vaccination and daily penicillin reduce the incidence of this complication and therefore we strongly recommend that both of these measures are continued indefinitely.
the neglected medical history and therapeutic choices for abdominal pain. a nationwide study of 799 physicians and nurses. a random national sample of 501 physicians and 298 nurse practitioners was presented a case vignette describing a patient with epigastric pain and endoscopy showing diffuse gastritis. respondents were encouraged to request further information and then were asked for recommendations. history available if requested included substantial use of aspirin, coffee, cigarettes, and alcohol, and severe psychosocial stress. more than one third of the physicians chose to initiate therapy without seeking a relevant history. nearly half of all physicians indicated that a prescription would be the single most effective therapy; 65% recommended a histamine antagonist. by contrast, only 19% of nurse practitioners opted to treat without taking further history; the nurse sample asked an average of 2.6 questions vs 1.6 for physicians; only 20% of the nurses recommended a prescription medication. these findings raise concerns about the adequacy of basic history taking in this setting and the underuse of nonpharmacologic approaches in favor of excessive reliance on prescription drugs, even when not indicated by clinical circumstances.
lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum: an unusual intraoperative finding. lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina. he was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances. the diagnosis was made on frozen section.
value of magnetic resonance imaging in spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma due to vascular malformation: case report. a case of spinal cord compression due to spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma is reported. a spinal arteriovenous malformation was suspected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging. early surgical exploration allowed a complete neurological recovery. the vascular malformation was histopathologically confirmed. the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of acute spinal cord compression syndromes is stressed.
monosomy 22 in rhabdoid or atypical tumors of the brain. cytogenetic studies of three rare childhood brain tumors were performed. two children presented with pure rhabdoid tumors. the third child had a tumor composed of a mixture of rhabdoid elements with neuroepithelial, epithelial, and mesenchymal tissue - an atypical teratoid tumor. all three tumors demonstrated monosomy 22 as the only cytogenetic abnormality. the cytogenetic findings suggest that loss of a gene or genes on chromosome 22 may be involved in the initiation or progression of these malignant tumors. further studies on additional fresh tumor specimens are warranted; however, it is possible that cytogenetic studies may be used as an additional means of diagnosing rhabdoid or atypical teratoid tumors of the brain.
auditory-evoked responses in benign intracranial hypertension syndrome. in this study, auditory brainstem-evoked responses were conducted on 28 patients with otologic symptoms (pulsatile tinnitus, hearing loss, aural fullness) secondary to benign intracranial hypertension syndrome. abnormalities consisting mainly of prolonged interpeak latencies were detected in one third of these patients. it is speculated that the pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for these auditory brainstem-evoked abnormalities are stretching-compression of the cochlear nerve and brainstem caused by the intracranial hypertension and/or primary edema of the same structures due to the benign intracranial hypertension syndrome itself. normalization or improvement was noticed in the majority of the patients after management. since the number of patients in this study is small, it is felt that the diagnostic and prognostic value of this test needs further evaluation.
high mortality among patients with the leukemoid reaction and alcoholic hepatitis. we describe a patient with severe alcoholic hepatitis, markedly elevated white blood cell count, and high fever. after review of the english literature, we discovered reports of other cases similar to our case. the striking feature in all of these cases was a high short-term mortality rate, despite predictions of a favorable outcome. we therefore believe these patients represent a subgroup of patients with alcoholic hepatitis and that the leukemoid reaction is a poor prognostic sign in this disease.
sympathetic drive and vascular damage in hypertension and atherosclerosis. current knowledge of the links between the sympathetic nervous system and vascular damage in hypertension and atherosclerosis is summarized. the main mechanisms leading to the structural changes of the arterial wall as a consequence of enhanced adrenergic drive are reported. hemodynamic mechanisms, including increase in pressure leading to changes in the arterioles and alteration of flow pattern with impact mainly in the large arteries, respectively, account for the typical target organ damage observed in hypertension and is involved in the development of atherosclerotic lesions. regarding the direct effect of catecholamines, the atherogenic effects of epinephrine and norepinephrine in the absence of changes in blood pressure and cholesterol levels have been demonstrated in vivo in monkeys and rabbits. in rats, catecholamine administration induces polyploidization of aortic smooth muscle cells in vivo and in vitro. regarding the effects of lipid metabolism, adrenergic stimulation may induce free fatty acid transformation into triglycerides with secondary increase in very low density lipoprotein plasma levels and decrease of very low density lipoprotein transformation into high density lipoprotein through circulating lipoprotein lipase inhibition. catecholamines may also increase cholesterol levels of the arterial wall, probably by triggering the acyl-cholesterol-acyl-transferase activity. finally, indirect evidence of the pathogenetic role played by the sympathetic system in the development of vascular disease derives from the results of experiments showing that sympatholytic agents are capable of reducing both medial hypertrophy and atherogenesis. beta-blockers, alpha- and beta-blockers, and centrally acting sympatholytic agents not only ameliorate hemodynamics but also appear to inhibit the direct effects of catecholamines on the arterial wall.
stress-induced adrenocorticotropin secretion: diurnal responses and decreases during stress in the evening are not dependent on corticosterone. to test whether the diurnal rhythm in stress responsiveness is dependent on corticosterone (b)-mediated negative feedback, the responses of intact (sham) and adrenalectomized (adx) rats to restraint for 3-90 minutes or ip injection with saline in the morning (am) and the evening (pm) were compared. in both sham and adx rats, acth responses to restraint stress were larger in the am. in intact rats, this could have resulted from both fast negative feedback, due to the rate of rise of b during the stress in the pm, and delayed negative feedback, due to the high basal concentrations of b before the stress in the pm. however, this diurnal pattern of stress responsiveness was not dependent on b, as the same relative responses to restraint and ip injection were found in adx rats. to determine whether the lack of response of adx rats in the pm to stress was due to a loss of sensitivity to endogenous secretagogues, adx rats were given crf + arginine vasopressin (avp) while anesthetized with ether after 30 min of restraint. in both the am and the pm, the pituitaries were able to respond to exogenous secretagogues. a second novel finding was that in the pm, but not the am, plasma acth concentrations in the adx rats decreased substantially during the period of restraint, despite the lack of b-mediated negative feedback. in the am and the pm, adx rats were restrained for 30 min and then stressed with ether for 6 min. the acth concentrations were not different before and after ether, suggesting that, although the pituitaries of adx rats are able to respond to exogenous crf + avp after stress, an additional stress of ether exposure no longer stimulates endogenous crf and avp release after 30 min of restraint at either time of day. after 90 min of restraint in the am and the pm, the relationship between acth and b was positive, not negative, providing no evidence of ongoing b-mediated negative feedback in the sham rats. therefore, the same mechanism responsible for the decrease in acth secretion in adx rats may occur in sham rats as well. from these results, we conclude that the diurnal rhythm in stress responsiveness and, in the pm in the adx rats, the decrease in plasma acth during stress, are largely independent of b.
primary carcinoma of the gallbladder. seventy-four patients with primary carcinoma of the gallbladder, diagnosed over 18 years from 1969 to 1987, were studied retrospectively. the most common presenting complaint was abdominal pain, followed by jaundice and weight loss. surgery was performed in 61 patients and of these patients, only two had accurate preoperative diagnosis which was made by ultrasonography. twelve of the 13 patients who were treated medically had the disease diagnosed at autopsy. one of the 13 patients had the diagnosis of gallbladder cancer by the findings of ultrasonography and abdominal computed tomography (ct) scanning. the resectability of the surgically managed group was 36.1%, and the majority of patients with advanced tumors (82.2%) were deemed unresectable. the most common histologic type was adenocarcinoma. liver was the organ most commonly invaded (76.5%) by direct extension and/or metastases, followed by regional lymph nodes (52.9%). the overall 5-year survival rate was 5.4%. a high index of suspicion of the disease, intraoperative examination of gallbladder specimen, and earlier, more aggressive surgical treatment may improve patient survival.
endoscopic comparison of cimetidine and sucralfate for prevention of naproxen-induced acute gastroduodenal injury. effect of scoring method. nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced gastroduodenal mucosal damage observed endoscopically is usually categorized as hemorrhages, erosions, or ulcerations. we undertook this study to determine whether the injury produced by a commonly prescribed nsaid, naproxen, could be reduced by cotherapy with sucralfate or cimetidine and to determine how dependent the differences in the degree of protection against mucosal injury measured were on the scoring system used. four groups of 20 healthy volunteers with endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosa received naproxen (500 mg twice a day) plus cimetidine (300 mg four times a day or 400 mg twice a day), sucralfate (1 g four times a day), or placebo for seven days. after seven days of therapy, a second endoscopy was performed. separate scoring systems were used for the presence of hemorrhages, erosions, and a combination of both types of injury. there were significantly fewer mucosal hemorrhages present when naproxen and cimetidine were administered than when naproxen was administered with placebo or sucralfate (placebo vs 300 mg cimetidine, p = 0.04, and placebo vs 400 mg cimetidine, p = 0.006, placebo vs sucralfate, p = 0.26). both cimetidine dosages resulted in significantly fewer hemorrhages than were present following cotherapy of naproxen and sucralfate (p less than 0.05). in contrast, there was no discernible difference in the mucosal injury between placebo and any drug or between any two active therapies when the injury was evaluated based on the presence of gastric erosions.
pregnancy and the risk of hemorrhage from cerebral arteriovenous malformations. we conducted a retrospective analysis of 451 women with an arteriovenous malformation (avm) of the brain to determine whether pregnancy is a risk factor for cerebral hemorrhages. a total of 540 pregnancies occurred among our patient population, resulting in 438 live births and 102 abortions. there were 17 pregnancies complicated by a cerebral hemorrhage. the hemorrhage rate during pregnancy for women with an unruptured avm was 0.035 +/- 0.005 per person-year. the hemorrhage rate for nonpregnant women of childbearing age with an unruptured avm was 0.031 +/- 0.002 per person-year. pregnancy did not increase significantly the rate of first cerebral hemorrhage from an avm (p = 0.35). we found that women with an avm face a 3.5% risk of hemorrhage during pregnancy. pregnancy is not a risk factor for hemorrhage in women without a previous hemorrhage. this conclusion assumes no selection bias exists in our study population; a bias would be introduced if the risk of fatal outcome after a hemorrhage were greater in pregnant women than in nonpregnant women.
ascending cholangitis: surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage. a retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out. there were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years. all patients had abdominal pain, 87% had chills and fever, 65% had clinical jaundice, 23% were in shock, and 54% had positive blood cultures. because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help, 33 patients underwent surgery, 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy (ep), and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct (ptd). morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections, one respiratory failure, and one renal failure. morbidity in the ep-ptd group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively. two patients (6%) died in the surgery group, one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest. in the ep-ptd group nine patients (32%) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure. these patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat ep-ptd was carried out. cholangitis persisted, and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death. thus when initial ep or ptd is unsuccessful, surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis.
triiodothyronine in the recovery of stunned myocardium in dogs two groups of dogs were subjected to a 15-minute period of regional myocardial ischemia by snaring the left anterior descending coronary artery proximal to its first diagonal branch. after release of the snare, the dogs were given either placebo (group 1: n = 7) or triiodothyronine (t3) therapy (group 2: n = 6). the dose of t3 given was 0.2 microgram/kg at 30-minute intervals to a total of six doses. plasma free t3 level fell significantly during the ischemic period in both groups and continued to fall after reperfusion in group 1. in both groups, cardiac function deteriorated significantly during the period of ischemia and rapidly returned to control level after reperfusion. after 90 minutes of reperfusion, however, deterioration of left ventricular function was observed in group 1 and was significantly worse than in group 2, in which hemodynamic function was maintained and, in fact, improved to levels superior to control. it is suggested that t3 therapy may be worthy of trial in patients in whom reperfusion of the myocardium takes place after a relatively short ischemic period (the "stunned myocardium").
primary lymphoma of the liver: clinical and pathological features of 10 patients. nine out of 10 patients with primary lymphoma of the liver presented in a manner that did not suggest a tumour. the initial diagnoses were chronic active hepatitis in three cases and "granulomatous cholangitis", inflammatory pseudotumour, and anaplastic carcinoma in one case each. moreover, extensive haemorrhagic necrosis in three cases initially suggested the budd-chiari syndrome. all the tumours were diffuse non-hodgkin's lymphomas like the 50 cases reported previously, but they differed from most of these in that nine were of t cell phenotype. five were pleomorphic small t cell, two t zone, and two t lymphoblastic lymphomas: only one was centrocytic and of b cell lineage. this report extends the range of clinical manifestations (diffuse hepatomegaly without a tumour), histological appearances (resemblance to chronic inflammatory or vascular liver diseases) and phenotype (of t cell lineage) of primary lymphoma of the liver: these features seemed to be related in this series. recognition is important as prognosis remains favourable in appropriately treated cases. although the appearances of the liver biopsy specimens may be difficult to interpret, the destructiveness of the infiltrate is an important clue to the diagnosis.
intraperitoneal femoral venous catheter insertion with free blood return in presence of tense hemoperitoneum. the authors report a case of intraperitoneal insertion of a femoral venous catheter, with blood return, in a patient with hemoperitoneum. in such patients, skin puncture at or below the inguinal ligament is important. aspiration of unusually dark blood and medial catheter location should raise the possibility of intraperitoneal catheter placement.
seizure disorders in down syndrome. the prevalence, onset, and type of seizure disorders, as well as seizure control, were studied in a large cohort of 405 individuals with down syndrome (age range, 6 months to 45 years). the evaluation of a questionnaire completed by the subjects' parents and of the patients' medical records indicated that 33 (8.1%) of 405 persons with down syndrome had seizure disorder. with regard to the onset of seizures, a bimodal distribution was noted: 40% of patients began having seizures before the age of 1 year, and another 40% started with seizure activity in the third decade of life. in the younger age group, primarily infantile spasms and tonic-clonic seizures with myoclonus were observed, and the older patients often had partial simplex or partial complex seizures as well as tonic-clonic seizures.
thoracoabdominal repair of a post-traumatic aortorenal vein fistula following a previous transabdominal attempt: case report. aortorenal vein fistula from trauma is a rare entity. a case is reported in which previous anterior abdominal attempts at repair rendered a thoracoabdominal approach necessary. previous reports and techniques are compared and discussed.
pharmacology of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as a guide to their use in congestive heart failure. the pharmacokinetics of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors are difficult to assess for several reasons. first, these compounds exert their influence by inhibiting an intermediary enzyme of a cascade of enzymatic events, whose rate-limiting enzyme (renin) is not directly affected by ace inhibition. second, renin and angiotensin i accumulate during ace inhibition and a change in the dose of an ace inhibitor could produce sudden shifts of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii. third, components of the circulating renin system require the interaction of several organ systems and effector sites. fourth, the kinetics of ace inhibitors can be influenced by the organ systems responsible for drug absorption, metabolism and excretion, and the functional status of these systems can be affected by the heart failure process. fifth, at least some portion of the cardiovascular effects of ace inhibitors is influenced by the contributions of other systems whose physiologic effects may be of importance in some patients with congestive heart failure. sixth, the potential impact of tissue-bound ace is not yet fully understood. finally, for appropriate drug dosing, the effects of aging on the heart failure process, the extent of renin system activity, and the disposition of ace inhibitors need to be considered. because of their complex pharmacokinetics, treatment with ace inhibitors has been guided by their pharmacodynamic and clinical characteristics.
congenital duodenal diaphragm: conversion of stable chronic symptoms to subacute gastric outlet obstruction by penetrating foreign body. congenital duodenal diaphragms (cdd) are rare lesions that usually become symptomatic and require surgery in childhood. we report a patient, who, although symptomatic since early childhood, had accommodated to the condition and finally required surgical correction in late life after an ingested foreign body traumatized the diaphragm, producing subacute gastric outlet obstruction. the condition, including the reconstruction of the precipitating event, was diagnosed endoscopically prior to surgery.
ten-year prospective study on the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients. a prospective study was undertaken to investigate the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients. three renal cell carcinomas were detected among 96 hemodialysis patients in 1979, and screening by computed tomographic (ct) scan was continued yearly until 1989. during this 10-year period, one renal cell carcinoma was found in the second year and another in the ninth year. autopsy performed on seven of 19 patients who died showed one case of small clear cell carcinoma accompanying acquired cystic disease. in 33 males, kidneys were found to have enlarged 2.7 +/- 1.7 times over the 10-year follow-up due to acquired cysts, while no change in kidney volume was noted in 24 females. native kidneys in nine of 12 patients who maintained functioning grafts were reduced in size. the patient with the largest kidney enlargement (11.5 times) died from retroperitoneal bleeding in 1989. these prospective study results suggest that both the incidence and prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients is high. furthermore, major complications of acquired renal cystic disease seem to occur predominantly in males.
human papillomavirus associated with poor healing of episiotomy repairs. a retrospective case-control investigation was conducted for risk factors in 47 parturients whose episiotomies dehisced in the immediate postpartum period. data were extracted from the inpatient, outpatient, and pathology records of each of these 47 patients, as well as from the same records for each of the next two patients who delivered with the same type and degree of episiotomy. no difference between subjects and controls was found for age, parity, or medical history. except for human papillomavirus (hpv), past or present history of sexually transmitted diseases was not a risk factor. however, active lesions, history thereof, or subsequent development of infection with hpv was found in 14 of 47 patients (29.8%) who had episiotomy breakdown, compared with 13 of 94 women (13.8%) who did not experience this complication, a statistically significant difference (p less than .023). eleven subjects (23.4%) and nine controls (9.6%) gave a history of smoking during pregnancy, also a statistically significant difference (p less than .026).
neonatal intracranial choriocarcinoma. a 1-month-old infant died from extensive intracerebral hemorrhage due to a metastatic choriocarcinoma to the brain that presumably originated in the placenta. the clinical course was characterized by hyperbilirubinemia, repeated episodes of seizures, and intracranial hemorrhage. a computed tomographic scan revealed a large vascular mass in the left parieto-occipital region and a small lesion in the left frontal lobe. the placenta was expelled during the delivery and was not examined. in view of the high level of maternal human chorionic gonadotropic hormone and the autopsy finding of metastasis, we presumed that the mass was a metastatic choriocarcinoma that had originated in the maternal placenta. to our knowledge, only one previous instance of this phenomenon has been reported.
renovascular disease and renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor therapy are widely recognized, but few authors have documented the incidence or spectrum of these conditions. in a retrospective study of 530 consecutive patients presenting to our unit as acute uraemic emergencies over a six-year period, 85 (16 per cent) had renovascular disease that was considered to be responsible for their loss of renal function. twenty-one (4 per cent) patients had uraemia which could be clearly attributable to ace inhibitor treatment; 18 of these cases were shown to have significant renovascular pathology. following withdrawal of the ace inhibitor the renal failure reversed in the majority of patients. we also examined 400 consecutive hypertensive patients referred over a similar period and, although vascular imaging was performed only when it was considered to be clinically indicated, 58 (14.5 per cent) of these patients were shown to have renovascular pathology. a further five patients with stable chronic renal disease were seen to have a deterioration in their glomerular filtration rate coincident with commencement of ace inhibitor therapy; this reversed when the agents were withdrawn. these observations indicate that significant renovascular disease may be more common than has been hitherto recognized and that injudicious use of ace inhibitors may result in serious complications. methods which may minimize such iatrogenic disease are suggested.
oncolytic effects of fatty acids in mice and rats. intrahepatic implants of m114 carcinoma in b6d2f1/j mice were treated by intraperitoneal injection of 30 mg sodium caprylate (octanoate), and implants of nb2 lymphoma in nb rats were treated with 300 mg tricaprylin orally. after 4-11 h extensive damage to tumor cells was evident microscopically whereas liver cells were unaffected. tumors in mice treated once daily from the fourth to eighth day after implantation were obliterated. subcutaneous implants of hepatoma nb10l in nb rats treated transdermally with a caprylic acid preparation underwent similar damage. fatty acids can cause lysis of tumor cells with little damage to normal tissue in certain situations. this action is not related to mitotic activity and represents a novel mode of antitumor action.
intrapalatine resection (ipr) in the treatment of sleep apnea and snoring. a conservative surgical technique is proposed as an alternative to the classical uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (uppp) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and snoring. the resection is strictly intrapalatine, and careful suturing in three planes seems to lead to complete disappearance of the often unbearable postoperative pain. the soft palate is shortened but nonetheless still resembles a normal soft palate. uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (uppp) was described by ikematsu in 1952. this method has taken on a new lease of life in recent years. its efficacy is generally accepted, and its use, especially in cases of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, is the only treatment of the palatal velum at present practiced. in addition to aesthetic problems, this method generally gives rise to complications in the shape of temporary--but sometimes considerable--pain, nasal regurgitation, and a nasal voice. in a small percentage of patients, some of these disorders may prove irreversible. in my series of eight patients, five were obese and presented with hypertension. three of them also were suffering from obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. the three others were ordinary snorers who caused considerable inconvenience to sleeping partners.
experience with 50 free tram flap breast reconstructions. the data from the first 50 patients undergoing free tram flap breast reconstruction in two units were examined. average patient age was 42 years, and average weight was 62 kg. forty percent of patients were chronic smokers, and 26 percent had low abdominal scars. twelve percent exercised their abdominal muscles regularly. eighteen percent had undergone radical mastectomy, whereas 76 percent had undergone modified radical mastectomy and 6 percent had undergone subcutaneous mastectomy. postoperative radiotherapy had been given in 16 percent of patients, and 54 percent had received postoperative chemotherapy. the average time from mastectomy was 32 months, whereas six breasts were reconstructed immediately. average operating time was 5.6 hours, and average blood loss was 2.4 units. average hospital stay was 11.2 days. complications included three total flap losses (6 percent) and two partial flap losses (4 percent). abdominal hernia occurred in two patients (4 percent).
rupture of coronary vasa vasorum as a trigger of acute myocardial infarction. some controversy has always existed regarding the presence and extent of the vasa vasorum--the nutrient vessels in the wall of the human aorta--in the coronary arteries. now, cinemicrographic studies using silicone polymer injections in cleared human hearts have identified the vasa vasorum of coronary arteries, revealing evidence of neovascularization in the region of atherosclerotic plaques. these studies suggest an important role for the vasa vasorum in the pathogenesis of coronary atherosclerosis and its sequelae, especially intramural hemorrhage and vascular spasm. the wall of the human coronary artery in regions of atherosclerotic injury may be particularly rich in capillary vessels of the vasa vasorum. from this, the evidence suggests that with the morning increase in blood pressure, fragile neovascular structures of the vasa vasorum may be more prone to rupture and may be responsible, in part, for the circadian variation in myocardial infarction.
risk factors for breast cancer. despite the numerous risk factors for the development of breast cancer that have been investigated, only a few demonstrate a clear association with breast cancer development. female gender and increasing age are the most important factors, followed by factors involving a woman's menstrual, reproductive, and family history. the risks related to menstruation and reproduction are probably related to the duration of estrogenic breast stimulation. the relationship of family history and breast cancer risk is unclear, but there may be a true genetic basis. the previous occurrence of breast cancer (invasive or in situ), the presence of proliferative pathological changes, especially with atypia, and the presence of other malignancies (e.g., primary ovarian and endometrial cancer) are histological risk factors for the development of new or recurrent breast cancer. radiation exposure, the use of exogenous estrogens (both estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives), diet (especially fat consumption), and alcohol intake may all play a role in cancer risk. certain medications as well as patient demographics may also have a weak association. cigarette smoking, caffeine consumption, and stress presently have little support for an association with breast cancer risk. it should be noted that in only one in four patients can breast cancer be accounted for by the known risk factors. this demonstrates that although presently known risk factors may help in screening for the early detection of breast carcinoma, in its possible prevention by modulation of influenceable factors, and in advising patients about their risks, these factors are merely strong associations with breast cancer incidence and not actual causations. the mechanisms of the development of breast cancer are as yet unknown.
extended retrolabyrinthine transtentorial approach to petroclival lesions. in this communication, an extension of the retrolabyrinthine approach that has permitted safe, effective access to the petrous tip and clivus is presented. the basic technique involved complete mastoidectomy, preservation of the middle and inner ear structures, removal of the sigmoid and middle fossa plates, middle and posterior fossa craniotomies, ligation of the superior petrosal sinus, and division of the tentorium. nine cases that exemplified the versatility of this approach constituted the basis of this paper: 2 cholesteatomas, 2 basilar artery aneurysms, 2 chordomas, and 3 meningiomas. the indications for, and complications of, this method have been discussed.
decreased growth velocity before iddm onset. diabetes can retard growth. growth was studied prospectively in 12 nondiabetic identical twins aged less than 14 yr and in their co-twins with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) to determine whether changes in growth occur before the onset of iddm. seven of the 12 nondiabetic twins subsequently developed iddm; the remainder are now unlikely to become diabetic. a significantly reduced growth velocity was observed more frequently in the nondiabetic twins (7 of 12) than in their diabetic co-twins (1 of 12; p = 0.03). of the 7 nondiabetic twins who were prediabetic, 6 had a reduction in growth velocity to below the 3rd percentile before the onset of diabetes compared with 1 of their diabetic co-twins (p = 0.03). however, only 1 of the 5 nondiabetic twins who did not develop diabetes showed a reduction in growth velocity. the nadir of growth in the twins who developed diabetes occurred a mean of 1.2 yr before diagnosis (range 0.3-2.3 yr). all 7 of the prediabetic twins had islet cell antibodies when first seen, and 3 had them before they showed either decreased growth velocity or impaired glucose tolerance. in 4 prediabetic twins, the decreased growth preceded impaired glucose tolerance. the prediabetic twins tested had lower testosterone or estradiol levels at the time they showed decreased growth than their diabetic twins. we conclude that decreased growth velocity is an early sensitive marker of iddm.
impact of a public cholesterol screening program. the national cholesterol education program (ncep) has endorsed physician case finding as the primary method to detect individuals with elevated cholesterol levels. despite this recommendation, promotional and for-profit public screening programs have flourished. we surveyed participants of a mall-based cholesterol screening program 1 year after their screening. sixty-four percent of those screened had not previously known their cholesterol levels. those who were newly screened were less likely to benefit from this testing than the general public, since they were older (mean age, 55.3 years), more likely to be female (67.4%), and nonsmokers (88%). screenees had excellent recall of their cholesterol level (mean absolute reporting error, 0.24 mmol/l [9 mg/dl]) and a good understanding of cholesterol as a coronary heart disease risk. those with elevated cholesterol levels reported high distress from screening but no reduction in overall psychosocial well-being and an actual decrease in absenteeism. only 53.7% of all who were advised to seek follow-up because of an elevated screening value had done so within the year following the screening program. however, of those with values greater than 6.2 mmol/l (240 mg/dl), 68% had sought follow-up. many of those who participate in public screening programs have been previously tested, fall into low-benefit groups, or fail to comply with recommended follow-up. we therefore conclude that cholesterol screening programs of the type now commonly offered are unlikely to contribute greatly to the national efforts to further reduce coronary heart disease.
elevated serum bromide concentrations following repeated halothane anaesthesia in a child. a 20-month-old child received 25 brief halothane general anaesthetics over a five-week period to allow cranial irradiation treatments for a posterior fossa ependymoma. personality change during the last week of the treatment protocol raised the question of possible bromide intoxication. serum bromide concentrations, using a gold chloride assay technique, were monitored at that time, and at four- and six-week intervals thereafter. serum bromide concentrations demonstrated a four-fold change during this period ranging from peak levels of 2.2 meq.l-1 (176 micrograms.kg-1) during the fifth week of treatment decreasing to less than 0.5 meq.l-1 (less than 40 micrograms.ml-1) six weeks following the end of treatments. this demonstrates the possibility for repetitive, short halothane exposures to result in elevations of serum bromide and the potential of bromide intoxication in paediatric neuro-oncology patients.
umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia: a new association? in three fetuses, congenital intestinal atresia was associated with linear ulcerations of the umbilical cord. in two cases, hemorrhage was seen from the cord ulcer. both fetuses required emergency cesarean section for fetal distress and were born anemic. the third fetus was mildly hydropic, attributed to hemorrhage, and was stillborn. the mechanism of the association could not be determined. these cases suggest a risk of prenatal umbilical cord hemorrhage in infants with intestinal atresia.
sensorineural hearing loss: a reversible effect of valproic acid. we report 2 patients over the age of 70 who, while on valproate (vpa) for complex partial seizures, developed sensorineural hearing loss. following discontinuation of vpa for nonaudiologic reasons, the patients reported improved hearing which was confirmed by audiometry. these findings represent vpa-induced sensorineural hearing loss, possibly in preexisting presbycusis.
bronchopulmonary and neurenteric forms of foregut anomalies. imaging for diagnosis and management. bronchopulmonary foregut malformations encompass a great variety of anomalies that may arise from abnormal differentiation of the respiratory and alimentary tracts, abnormal separation of the two systems, or abnormal development of blood supply, perhaps singly or in combination, during early embryogenesis. the pulmonary and neurenteric forms share the common features of a pulmonary parenchymal opacification and/or intrathoracic mass, with the addition of vertebral anomalies in the instance of the neurenteric malformations. plain radiographs serve as the starting point for diagnostic evaluation and sometimes are all that is needed; more often, though, the plain film findings suggest which road to follow in further imaging. no single imaging approach can be advocated for all patients. the lesion may be found initially, for example, on prenatal sonography. ultrasonography also can establish the cystic nature of a mass and may help define vascular supply, although it cannot yet be said to have supplanted angiography's role in evaluating suspected sequestrations. for most intramediastinal or intrapulmonary masses without associated vertebral anomalies, ct will satisfactorily establish the cystic nature and should afford a reasonably confident preoperative diagnosis of bronchogenic cysts or type 1 or 2 cystic adenomatoid malformations. type 3 cystic adenomatoid malformation, because of its relatively "solid" imaging characteristics, may not be diagnosed confidently by preoperative imaging. the finding of vertebral anomalies associated with a mediastinal mass especially warrants mr imaging to define intraspinal involvement. however, the association of vertebral or rib anomalies with apparent unilateral pulmonary agenesis or hypoplasia arouses suspicion of a bronchopulmonary foregut malformation that communicates with the gastrointestinal tract, and this uncommon situation calls for a barium examination. radionuclide scintigraphy has an ancillary role in assessing foregut anomalies, but many findings from scintigraphy are relatively nonspecific and anatomic definition is poor. scintigraphy may yield supportive information in cases of sequestration that have inconclusive findings as determined by plain radiographs and ct.
intra-abdominal abscess in regional enteritis. intra-abdominal abscess (iaa) developed in 129 of 610 patients (21.2%) with crohn's disease confined to the small bowel. the location of the abscess was intraperitoneal (ipa) in 109 (17.9%) and retroperitoneal (rpa) in 20 (3.3%). there was a marked preponderance of male patients in the retroperitoneal group (ratio, 18:2) (p less than 0.0001). all 129 patients were operated on. thirteen of one hundred nine patients (12%) with ipa were reoperated on for recurrent abscess, and nine (8.2%) for other reasons. external fistula developed in 24 patients (22%) after simple incision and drainage. four (3.7%) died; one from hepatitis, and three from sepsis 5, 14, and 90 days after surgery. of the 20 patients with rpa, two (10%) were reoperated on for recurrent abscess and four (20%) for other reasons. external fistula developed in two patients (10%). there were no deaths in this group. a small number of patients with iaa complicating regional enteritis had persistent sepsis causing postoperative death, which is, however, six times lower than in our comparable series of crohn's (ileo)colitis.
evaluation of drug therapy for treatment of hypertensive urgencies in the emergency department. oral nifedipine (n) and clonidine (c) are often used in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies; however, until recently, there were no comparative studies using the same patient population. the authors reviewed the records of hypertensive patients treated in the emergency department between october 1, 1987 and september 30, 1988. selected patients had a diastolic blood pressure (dbp) of greater than 115 mm hg without evidence of acute end organ damage. patients were stratified into three treatment groups: n, c, and group 3 (g3). g3 received a variety of drug therapies but not exclusively n or c. systolic blood pressure (sbp), dbp, mean arterial pressure (map), percent decrease in map (%map), time to lower blood pressure, admissions, and discharges were evaluated. efficacy and safety were defined as reaching a dbp less than 110 mm hg but %map of no greater than either 25% or 40%, respectively. thirty-five n, 32 c, and 27 g3 patients were identified with no statistical difference between groups in race, gender, pretreatment sbp, dbp, or map. n, c, and g3 significantly reduced sbp, dbp, and map (p less than .01). comparing n, c, and g3, no differences were observed in %map, admissions, discharges, efficacy, or safety. time required to decrease blood pressure differed between all three groups (44 +/- 32 n v 77 +/- 57 c v 152 +/- 94 min g3) (p less than .05). these results indicate that n, c, and a variety of drug therapies are equally effective and safe in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies.
enteroliths causing intermittent obstruction in a patient with crohn's disease. calcified enteroliths as a cause of intermittent small bowel obstruction is an uncommon clinical entity. the pathophysiological mechanism involves stasis of intestinal contents and has been associated with meckel's diverticulum, tuberculosis, and regional enteritis. this case describes prophylactic operative intervention in a symptomatic patient with enteroliths as a result of crohn's disease.
evidence for the targeting by 2-oxo-dehydrogenase enzymes in the t cell response of primary biliary cirrhosis. primary biliary cirrhosis (pbc) is a chronic autoimmune liver disease that includes the presence of lymphoid infiltrates in portal tracts, high titer autoantibodies against pyruvate dehydrogenase-e2 (pdh-e2) and branched chain ketoacid dehydrogenase-e2 (bckd-e2), and biliary tract destruction. the mechanism by which the autoimmune response is induced, the specificity of damage to the biliary epithelium, and the role of t cells in pbc are still unknown. to address these issues, we have taken advantage of a mouse mab, coined c355.1, and studied its reactivity against a panel of liver tissue from normal subjects as well as a panel of liver specimens from patients with pbc, progressive sclerosing cholangitis, and chronic active hepatitis (cah). c355.1, much like human autoantibodies to pdh-e2, reacts exclusively by immunoblotting with pdh-e2, binds to the inner lipoyl domain of the protein, and inhibits pdh-e2 activity in vitro. in addition, we have also attempted to develop cloned t cell lines that react with pdh-e2 and/or bckd-e2 using liver biopsies from patients with pbc, compared with cah. although monoclonal c355.1 produced typical mitochondrial fluorescence on sections of normal liver, pancreas, lung, heart, thyroid, and kidney, it produced a distinct and intense reactivity when used to stain the bile ducts of patients with pbc. nine of 13 pbc liver biopsies studied herein contained bile ducts on light microscopy, all of which reacted intensely at a 1:100 culture supernatant dilution of monoclonal c355.1. in contrast, although bile ducts of liver specimens from normals, cah, and progressive sclerosing cholangitis also reacted with c355.1, such reactivity was exclusively mitochondrial and readily detectable only at a dilution of 1:2. more importantly, we generated cd4+, cd8-, alpha beta tcr+ cloned t cell lines from patients with pbc, but not from cah, that produced il-2 specifically in response to pdh-e2 or bckd-e2.
intraosseous infusion of dobutamine and isoproterenol. intraosseous infusion has been advocated as an emergency route in sick infants and children when intravenous access is not readily obtainable. dobutamine hydrochloride and isoproterenol hydrochloride are useful emergency drugs that have not been studied when administered into the bone marrow. in a swine model, we compared the physiologic responses (heart rate, arterial pressure, and cardiac output) of dobutamine and isoproterenol infusions delivered intravenously and intraosseously during 20-minute intervals. we observed statistically significant effects of both dobutamine and isoproterenol delivered by the intraosseous route. in addition, the effects resulting from intraosseous infusion were statistically similar to those resulting from intravenous administration of these drugs. we conclude that the intraosseous infusion of dobutamine and isoproterenol is an effective and useful method for emergency administration of these medications.
sternocleidomastoid muscle transfer and superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication in the prevention of frey's syndrome parotidectomy may be associated with a significant depression in the retromandibular region and a significant incidence of gustatory sweating (frey's syndrome). superiorly and inferiorly based sternocleidomastoid flaps and posterior plication of the superficial musculoaponeurotic system were evaluated for their ability to ameliorate both consequences. sixteen patients with sternocleidomastoid flaps and 16 patients with superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication were compared to a control group of 104 patients. the incidence of frey's syndrome was 47.1% in the control group, 12.5% (p = 0.025) in the sternocleidomastoid flap group, and 0% (p = 0.005) in the superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication group. the surgical techniques are described. the prevalence of frey's syndrome is discussed with respect to age, sex, radiation therapy, and the type of parotidectomy performed. the indications and contraindications of the three surgical techniques are described.
variable expression of parkinson's disease: a base-line analysis of the datatop cohort. the parkinson study group. the datatop database, which includes clinical information on 800 patients with early untreated parkinson's disease (pd), is well suited to explore clinical heterogeneity in pd. patients with early-onset pd (less than or equal to 40 years, n = 33) reached the same level of disability as the late-onset pd (greater than or equal to 70 years, n = 85) group at a significantly slower rate (2.9 vs. 1.7 years). early-onset pd patients functioned cognitively better than late-onset pd patients. bradykinesia, and postural instability and gait difficulty (pigd), were more common at onset in patients with a rapid rate of disease progression ("malignant pd"; duration of symptoms less than 1 year and hoehn/yahr stage of 2.5, n = 11) as compared with those with a relatively slow rate of progression ("benign pd"; duration of symptoms greater than 4 years, n = 65). comparisons of tremor-dominant pd (mean tremor score/mean pigd score less than or equal to 1.5, n = 441) with the pigd-dominant type (mean tremor score/mean pigd score greater than or equal to 1.0, n = 233) provided support for the existence of clinical subtypes. the pigd group reported significantly greater subjective intellectual, motor, and occupational impairment than the tremor group. stage ii patients had higher depression scores than stage i patients. among the patients participating in the datatop, older age at onset with bradykinesia, or with the pigd form of pd, is associated with more functional disability than when the symptoms are dominated by tremor or begin at a younger age.
efficacy of fludarabine, a new adenine nucleoside analogue, in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. purpose: to describe the results of fludarabine therapy in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia (pll) and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll-pro). patients and methods: seventeen patients with a diagnosis of pll or cll-pro received fludarabine 30 mg/m2 over 30 minutes daily for 5 days every 4 weeks alone (12 patients), or with prednisone (five patients). previously defined criteria for response were used. differences in response rates according to various characteristics were evaluated by chi-square test. results: three patients (18%) achieved complete remission, and three (18%) had a partial remission, for an overall response rate of 35%. responses were durable and occurred in all involved organ sites. lower response rates were observed in patients with anemia, thrombocytopenia, advanced rai stages, and primary resistance to prior therapy. toxicities were minimal except for febrile episodes associated with therapy. conclusion: fludarabine has shown encouraging results in these patients and deserves further investigation in combination with other active agents, and in the setting of front-line therapy.
outcome of cpr in a large metropolitan area--where are the survivors? study objectives: survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in cities with populations of more than 1 million has not been studied adequately. this study was undertaken to determine the overall survival rate for chicago and the effect of previously reported variables on survival, and to compare the observed survival rates with those previously reported. design: consecutive prehospital arrest patients were studied prospectively during 1987. setting: the study area was the city of chicago, which has more than 3 million inhabitants in 228 square miles. the emergency medical services system, with 55 around-the-clock ambulances and 550 paramedics, is single-tiered and responds to more than 200,000 emergencies per year. type of participants: we studied 3,221 victims of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest on whom paramedics attempted resuscitation. measurements and main results: ninety-one percent of patients were pronounced dead in emergency departments, 7% died in hospitals, and 2% survived to hospital discharge. survival was significantly greater with bystander-witnessed arrest, bystander-initiated cpr, paramedic-witnessed arrest, initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation, and shorter treatment intervals. conclusions: the overall survival rates were significantly lower than those reported in most previous studies, all based on smaller communities; they were consistent with the rates reported in the one comparable study of a large city. the single factor that most likely contributed to the poor overall survival was the relatively long interval between collapse and defibrillation. logistical, demographic, and other special characteristics of large cities may have affected the rates. to improve treatment of cardiac arrest in large cities and maximize the use of community resources, we recommend further study of comparable metropolitan areas using standardized terms and methodology. detailed analysis of each component of the emergency medical services systems will aid in making improvements to maximize survival of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
clinical importance of myeloid-antigen expression in acute lymphoblastic leukemia of childhood. background. leukemic cells in 15 to 25 percent of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) express myeloid antigens as well as lymphoid antigens (the latter reflecting b-cell or t-cell lineage). the relations of myeloid-antigen expression to other features of all and to prognosis have been controversial. methods. we analyzed clinical and laboratory features present at diagnosis in 236 consecutive cases of all in children. immunophenotyping, including single- and dual-fluorescence analyses, was used to classify leukemic cells as b or t lymphoblasts and also to identify myeloid-antigen expression--the simultaneous expression of lymphoid-associated antigens and at least one of three myeloid-associated antigens (cd33, cd13, and cd14) on cells classified as l1 or l2 according to the french-american-british system. results. forty-five of 185 patients with b-lineage all had myeloid-antigen expression, as did 8 of 41 patients with t-lineage all. in 10 patients, the lineage could not be determined. myeloid-antigen expression was associated with l2 morphology (p less than 0.05), but it did not correlate with other prognostic features recognized previously. multivariate analysis showed that myeloid-antigen expression was an important predictor of relapse in childhood all and the most significant prognostic factor statistically (p less than 0.0001). a white-cell count greater than or equal to 50 x 10(9) per liter at diagnosis was also an important and highly significant prognostic feature (p less than 0.001). after 40 months, the estimated disease-free survival for patients with all was 84 percent for those without myeloid-antigen expression and with a low white-cell count, 57 percent for those without myeloid-antigen expression and with a high white-cell count, 47 percent for those with myeloid-antigen expression and a low white-cell count, and 26 percent for those with myeloid-antigen expression and a high white-cell count (p less than 0.00001). conclusions. myeloid-antigen expression is an important independent predictor of a poor response to chemotherapy in childhood all.
gonococcal endocarditis: twenty-five year experience. gonococcal endocarditis is a devastating albeit rare complication of disseminated gonorrhea. it virtually disappeared as a disease entity with the advent of antibiotic therapy. recently, it has reappeared with surprisingly high frequency for unclear reasons. since 1983, the authors have observed six episodes of this disease in five patients, the largest series reported to date. it is predominantly a disease of young people without underlying valvular heart disease. characteristic clinical features include a high frequency of congestive heart failure and nephritis and a proclivity for aortic valve involvement, commonly with associated ring abscess, and large vegetations. genitourinary symptoms, arthralgias, and rash are uncommon. previously undescribed features include involvement of all four valves simultaneously, recurrence on an aortic valve prosthesis, and a high frequency of terminal complement deficiencies. precipitous hemodynamic deterioration despite appropriate therapy is not uncommon, and overall mortality rate remains an alarming 19%.
the transoral approach for the management of intradural lesions at the craniovertebral junction: review of 7 cases. the main difficulty in dealing with intradural lesions located ventrally in the region of the craniovertebral junction (cvj) is related to their relative inaccessibility. posterolateral approaches involve some manipulation of the brain stem and provide limited access because of the necessity of working between the cranial nerves. even then, the view of the ventral midline and across is limited. the transoral approach, which has been widely used for the management of extradural lesions in this area, is also useful for the treatment of intradural lesions. it provides an unimpeded although somewhat restricted, view of the ventral aspect of the cvj without the need for brain retraction. the cranial nerves and vertebral arteries are not interposed between the surgeon and the lesion. the risks of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and infection are greatly diminished by the use of fibrin adhesive and prolonged diversion of the cerebrospinal fluid. the use of this approach, together with its technical difficulties and results, in the management of seven purely intradural lesions located ventrally at the cvj, is discussed.
improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis by transesophageal echocardiography background. echocardiography is recognized as the method of choice for the noninvasive detection of valvular vegetations in patients with infective endocarditis, with transesophageal echocardiography being more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography. the diagnosis of associated abscesses by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult or even impossible in many cases, however, and it is not known whether transesophageal echocardiography is any better. methods. to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis, we studied prospectively by two-dimensional transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography 118 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis of 137 native or prosthetic valves that was documented during surgery or at autopsy. results. during surgery or at autopsy, 44 patients (37.3 percent) had a total of 46 definite regions of abscess. abscesses were more frequent in aortic-valve endocarditis than in infections of other valves, and the infecting organism was more often staphylococcus (52.3 percent of cases) in patients with abscesses than in those without abscesses (16.2 percent). the hospital mortality rate was 22.7 percent in patients with abscesses, as compared with 13.5 percent in patients without abscesses. whereas transthoracic echocardiography identified only 13 of the 46 areas of abscess, the transesophageal approach allowed the detection of 40 regions (p less than 0.001). sensitivity and specificity for the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis were 28.3 and 98.6 percent, respectively, for transthoracic echocardiography and 87.0 and 94.6 percent for transesophageal echocardiography; positive and negative predictive values were 92.9 and 68.9 percent, respectively, for the transthoracic approach and 90.9 and 92.1 percent for the transesophageal approach. variation between observers was 3.4 percent for transthoracic and 4.2 percent for transesophageal echocardiography. conclusions. the data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a significant improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis. the technique facilitates the identification of patients with endocarditis who have an increased risk of death and permits earlier treatment.
motor neuron disease (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is an insidiously developing, adult-onset, progressive anterior horn cell degeneration with associated degeneration of descending motor pathways. it has been recognized as an important clinical syndrome since the middle of the 19th century. despite increasing clinical and research interest in this condition, its cause remains obscure, even in the broadest terms. epidemiologic characteristics of the disease have been interpreted as evidence of both genetic and environmental causes. a major change in the view of this disease is the widely developing perception that it is a disease of elderly persons more than of middle-aged adults as was previously taught. etiologic hypotheses encompass a broad range of postulated pathophysiologic mechanisms, and we review these in detail. the clinical limits of the disease can now be better defined by using modern diagnostic techniques. although interest in supportive symptomatic therapy is growing, no intervention has yet been shown to modify the biologically determined motor system degeneration.
stress echocardiography and the human factor: the importance of being expert. the aim of this study was to evaluate how the diagnostic accuracy of a stress echocardiographic procedure, such as a dipyridamole echocardiography test, depends on the specific experience of the physician interpreting the test. recordings of 50 consecutive dipyridamole echocardiographic tests were selected for the first part of the study. they were analyzed by 20 experienced echocardiographers with different backgrounds in stress echocardiography: 10 beginners (less than 20 stress studies interpreted with trained staff) and 10 experienced observers (greater than or equal to 100 stress studies performed). diagnostic accuracy (true positive + true negative/total number of tests) versus the angiographic reference standard (greater than 70% coronary stenosis of at least one major coronary artery) was 62 +/- 6% for beginners and 85 +/- 3% for experienced observers (p less than 0.0001). in the second part of the study, 10 observers (5 beginners and 5 experienced observers) evaluated 2 different sets of 50 dipyridamole echocardiographic test studies before and after the training of the beginners. before training, the accuracy of beginners was lower than that of experienced observers (61 +/- 7% versus 85 +/- 3%; p less than 0.001). after training, the accuracy gap was closed (83 +/- 3% versus 86 +/- 2%; p = ns). therefore, interpretation of stress echocardiographic tests by an echocardiographer without specific training severely underestimates the diagnostic potential of this technique. one hundred stress echocardiographic studies are more than adequate to build the individual learning curve and reach the plateau of diagnostic accuracy that the test can yield.
a prospective randomized study of cerebrospinal fluid drainage to prevent paraplegia after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta. this article is concerned with the study of the effect of several variables, principally that of cerebrospinal fluid drainage, on the incidence of neurologic deficit in a prospective randomized series of patients with extensive aneurysms of the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta (thoracoabdominal type i and ii). forty-six patients had cerebrospinal fluid drainage, and 52 were controls, with a total of 98 available for study. cerebrospinal fluid pressure was continuously monitored in the former group and pressure maintained less than or equal to 10 mm hg in 20, less than or equal to 15 mm hg in 20, and greater than 15 mm hg in 6 patients during period of aortic clamping. the method of treatment including reattachment of intercostal and lumbar arteries (p = 0.2), temporary atriofemoral bypass during aortic occlusion (p = 0.3), and spinal fluid drainage (p = 0.8) were not statistically significant in reducing the incidence of neurologic deficits. thus cerebrospinal fluid drainage as we used it, was not beneficial in preventing paraplegia. on appropriate statistical analysis we found that the only significant predictor of delayed deficits was postoperative hypotension (p = 0.006).
prediction of cognitive change as a function of preoperative ability status among temporal lobectomy patients seen at 6-month follow-up. the relationship between preoperative ability levels and postoperative changes in cognitive function was examined among 23 left (ltl) and 19 right (rtl) temporal lobectomy patients using a battery of memory, language, and visuospatial tasks administered approximately 3 months before surgery and at 6 months follow-up. higher preoperative performances on the memory and language measures were associated with larger decrements in postsurgical scores among the ltl patients. the rtl group showed no consistent relationship between preoperative ability levels and subsequent postsurgical cognitive changes. based on the present data, we constructed base-rate tables for the wechsler memory scale-revised indicating the likelihood of measurable gains or losses in memory as a function of presurgical ability level for patients undergoing ltl. while tentative, these data provide a useful and practical guide for counseling prospective epilepsy patients of the attendant cognitive risks of ltl.
paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy: a treatable neuropathy. paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy has been recently described. we report the first case of this disorder which responded both clinically and electrophysiologically to cyclophosphamide treatment. a 54-year-old woman with a history of metastatic endometrial carcinoma in remission had asymmetrical polyneuropathy, electrophysiological findings consistent with a diffuse axonal neuropathy, high sedimentation rate and spinal fluid protein, and microvasculitis with axonal degeneration on nerve biopsy. the patient was treated with 150 mg of cyclophosphamide daily with gradual clinical and electrophysiological improvement.
spinal extradural cavernous hemangioma. three cases of isolated spinal extradural cavernous hemangiomas are reported, two in the thoracic and one in the lumbar region. one of them manifested as acute cord compression, the other two as chronic progressive myelopathy or radiculopathy. a total excision or subtotal excision with irradiation was performed. all of them had good functional recovery. the clinical picture, radiological diagnosis, and optimal method of treatment are discussed. the relevant literature is reviewed.
porcelain and resin veneers clinically evaluated: 2-year results. a clinical comparison of two different types of dental veneers--baked porcelain veneer and heat-and-pressure processed urethane resin veneer--was made after 2 years. although the esthetic appearance and gingival response were equal for both systems, the resin veneers had a greater tendency to chip and fracture. by the end of 2 years, 20% of the resin veneers had failed, whereas all of the porcelain veneers remained.
the trauma triage rule: a new, resource-based approach to the prehospital identification of major trauma victims. study objective: to develop a new trauma decision rule. design: retrospective clinical review. setting: level i trauma center. type of participants: 1,004 injured adults. measurements and main results: a new trauma decision rule was derived from 1,004 injured adult patients using a new operational definition of major trauma. the rule, termed the trauma triage rule, defines a major trauma victim as any injured adult patient whose systolic blood pressure is less than 85 mm hg; whose motor component of the glasgow coma score is less than 5; or who has sustained penetrating trauma of the head, neck, or trunk. using the operational definition of major trauma, the rule had a sensitivity of 92% and a specificity of 92% when tested on the 1,004-patient cohort. conclusion: the trauma triage rule may significantly reduce overtriage while only minimally increasing undertriage. this approach must be validated prospectively before it can be used in the prehospital setting.
gilles de la tourette syndrome is not linked to d2-dopamine receptor. gilles de la tourette syndrome has an important genetic component; the pathophysiology of this disorder may involve the dopamine system. we tested a d2-dopamine receptor (locus drd2, recognized by probe hd2g1) for genetic linkage with gilles de la tourette syndrome. using a genetic linkage map of the region of drd2 on the long arm of chromosome 11 and restriction fragment length polymorphism data from a total of four markers (drd2 itself, d11s84, d11s29, and pbgd), we were able to exclude linkage of this candidate gene and gilles de la tourette syndrome in two extended kindreds segregating for gilles de la tourette syndrome. this rules out causation of gilles de la tourette syndrome by mutation in drd2 in the kindreds studied under the genetic assumptions we employed; use of the map and multipoint linkage analyses also allowed us to exclude a gilles de la tourette syndrome susceptibility locus from a larger genetic region.
photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine. to study the vascular effects of a new photosensitizing agent independent of the influence of tumor growth, a cutaneous wound model was used. six-week-old harlan-sprague-dawley "fuzzy" rats were surgically wounded in a standard fashion. the animals were then divided into three groups: the first group received chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine only, the second group was treated with light only, and a third group was treated with both chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine and light. photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine had a direct effect on the neovasculature of a healing wound. the vasodilatation that was seen in the wound neovasculature that occurred 12 hours after the completion of chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine-photodynamic therapy may have indicated a therapeutic "window" at which other therapies can be employed to improve clinical efficacy.
biliary tract disease in rats with experimental small bowel bacterial overgrowth. small bowel bacterial overgrowth, which develops in surgically created jejunal self-filling blind loops, is associated with hepatic injury in susceptible rat strains. the histological findings are portal tract inflammation and bile duct proliferation and destruction. in this study, evidence of injury to the extrahepatic and intrahepatic bile ducts in susceptible and resistant inbred rats with self-filling blind loops was determined by bile flow rates, histological appearance of cross-sections of bile ducts and cholangiography. lewis and wistar rats with self-filling blind loops had thickening of the cross-sectional area of the extrahepatic bile ducts compared with controls and nonsusceptible buffalo rats (p less than 0.001). daily metronidazole therapy significantly reduced thickening of bile ducts in lewis and wistar rats with self-filling blind loops. bile flow was increased in lewis and wistar rats with blind loops compared with controls (p less than 0.05). cholangiograms of lewis and wistar rats with self-filling blind loops demonstrated extrahepatic ductal dilatation and ectasia with irregular, beaded, rapidly tapering and tortuous intrahepatic ducts. blinded cholangiographical scores of susceptible rat strains with self-filling blind loops were higher (score = 5.9 +/- 2.3) than those of controls (1.2 +/- 0.4), rats with blind loops treated with metronidazole (0.8 +/- 1.3) and nonsusceptible buffalo rats with blind loops (0.6 +/- 0.9) (p less than 0.01). biliary histological and cholangiographical abnormalities found in this rat model resemble features of primary sclerosing cholangitis. this animal model will be useful in exploring mechanisms of the association of hepatobiliary inflammation with intestinal injury and investigating potential therapeutic agents.
soccer injuries to the brain. a neuropsychologic study of former soccer players. thirty-seven former soccer players of the national football team of norway were individually examined with an extensive battery of psychologic tests. the neuropsychologic examination demonstrated mild to severe deficits regarding attention, concentration, memory, and judgment in 81% of the players. this may indicate some degree of permanent organic brain damage, probably the cumulative result of repeated traumas from heading the ball.
effect of hyperkalemia on experimental myocardial depression by verapamil. three patients with systemic hypotension and sinus bradycardia that were initially refractory to conventional therapy responded well to intravenous calcium administration. two-dimensional echocardiography revealed immediate reversal of severe left ventricular dysfunction after intravenous administration of calcium in two instances. common factors were hyperkalemia and verapamil therapy. this interaction was examined further by evaluation of contractility, heart rate, and arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs. controls (n = 9) received saline infusion, and a second group (n = 10) received saturated potassium chloride (approximately 0.2 ml/min intravenously). in control dogs, administration of verapamil (1195 +/- 181 micrograms/kg intravenously) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 113 +/- 7 mm hg to 74 +/- 5 mm hg, and heart rate from 147 +/- 9 beats/min to 86 +/- 11 beats/min. potassium chloride infusion alone increased blood [k+] from 3.4 +/- 0.1 to 6.2 +/- 0.2 meq/l, but was without hemodynamic effects. in hyperkalemic dogs, a significantly lower dose of verapamil (428 +/- 42 micrograms/kg intravenously) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 102 +/- 8 mm hg to 36 +/- 4 mm hg, and heart rate from 150 +/- 5 beats/min to 104 +/- 15 beats/min. myocardial contractile function was examined with right ventricular isometric contractile force and left ventricular segment length changes. in normokalemic and hyperkalemic groups, contractility was decreased by verapamil. effects of verapamil on arterial pressure and contractility could be reversed significantly by administration of calcium, 0.4 meq/kg intravenously. the present results support the theory that the negative hemodynamic effects of verapamil may be exaggerated to a harmful degree by concomitant hyperkalemia. these adverse events may be reversed by calcium administration.
auro-nasopharyngeal polyp and cholesteatoma. we report the association of an auronasopharyngeal polyp arising in a congenitally abnormal middle ear and eustachian tube. subsequently, ten years after removal of the polyp and insertion of a ventilation tube, there was recurrence of the polyp in association with cholesteatoma of the middle ear.
the pathology of heart allograft rejection. the pathologist plays an important role in the care of cardiac transplant recipients. day-to-day management of immunosuppression is largely dependent on the diagnosis and grading of acute rejection. while noninvasive methods have been tried experimentally, the endomyocardial biopsy remains the gold standard in monitoring the rejection status of the heart allograft. the diagnosis of rejection, however, is complicated by a variety of other histologic findings, which may be procedural or processing related, due to sampling, or specifically related to transplantation. failed allografts, whether from autopsy or explantation, provide the opportunity to study short- and long-term changes in the transplanted heart. allograft arteriopathy, or graft atherosclerosis, is the major limiting factor in long-term recipient survival. while the morphological features of graft arteriopathy have been well described, the mechanism and factors contributing to its development remain unclear.
implications of echocardiographically assisted diagnosis of pericardial tamponade in contemporary medical patients: detection before hemodynamic embarrassment. identification of suspected pericardial tamponade and the decision to perform invasive drainage of the pericardial space have historically been based on classic bedside findings. two-dimensional echocardiography has improved detection of pericardial effusion, but it may be excessively sensitive in evaluation of patients for hemodynamic embarrassment. therefore, 50 consecutive medical patients were examined who were identified by echocardiography to have probable tamponade (defined as the presence of right heart chamber collapse in the presence of a pericardial effusion) and who underwent combined right-sided cardiac catheterization and percutaneous pericardiocentesis. all patients had elevated pericardial pressure. however, many had minimal evidence of hemodynamic compromise (94% had systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 100 mm hg and 58% had a cardiac index greater than or equal to 2.3 liters/min per m2). pericardiocentesis resulted in hemodynamic improvement, but frequently did not alleviate dyspnea or correct tachycardia. patients with malignancy as the cause of tamponade had a high mortality rate (the cumulative probability of survival in such patients was only 17% at 1 year). echocardiographically assisted diagnosis of pericardial tamponade in medical patients results in the identification of a substantial subset of patients with only subtle evidence of hemodynamic compromise. this subset of patients differs sharply from medical patients described in previous reports with classic tamponade. although the patients can be managed by invasive catheter pericardiocentesis with few complications, the natural history and the optimal management strategy for this group are not resolved.
intranasal administration of neostigmine potentiates both intravenous and intranasal growth hormone (gh)-releasing hormone-induced gh release in short children. administration of cholinergic agonists increases both basal and gh-releasing hormone (ghrh)-induced gh secretion, probably acting via inhibition of endogenous somatostatin release. the aim of our study was to verify in two groups of children with idiopathic short stature the effect of intranasal administration of neostigmine (inns; 3 mg), a cholinesterase inhibitor, on basal gh levels as well as on the somatotroph response to ghrh when the peptide was administered either iv (ivghrh; 1 microgram/kg) or intranasally (inghrh; 10 micrograms/kg). in group a (n = 6; age, 10.6-16.0 yr) inns induced a significant gh increase [inns vs. saline, area under the curve (auc; mean +/- sem), 263.7 +/- 60.2 vs. 73.8 +/- 3.1 micrograms/l.h; p less than 0.03] and potentiated the somatotroph response to ivghrh (inns with ivghrh vs. ivghrh, 1316 +/- 183.0 vs. 644.9 +/- 154.5 micrograms/l.h; p less than 0.03). in group b (n = 6; age, 11.5-15.9 yr) ivghrh induced a gh rise clearly higher than that induced by inghrh (604.2 +/- 154.3 vs. 137.1 +/- 28.2 micrograms/l.h; p less than 0.03). administration of inns induced a gh rise similar to that occurring after inghrh (auc, 239.2 +/- 69.5 micrograms/l.h) and markedly increased the inghrh-induced gh response (482.4 +/- 103.6 micrograms/l.h; p less than 0.05 and 0.03 vs. inns and inghrh, respectively), so that it overlapped with that induced by ivghrh alone. in conclusion, cholinergic agonists such as neostigmine are able to increase both basal and ghrh-induced gh secretion in short children even when given intranasally. combined intranasal administration of neostigmine and ghrh (10 micrograms/kg) is able to induce a gh rise similar to that induced by ivghrh alone (1 microgram/kg), suggesting the potential usefulness of this combination cocktail and route of administration for the treatment of short stature.
herpes zoster ophthalmicus and iris cysts. herpes zoster ophthalmicus has been associated with numerous complications such as neuropathy, keratitis, anterior uveitis, and neuralgia. to my knowledge, there have been no reports of secondary iris cyst formation. i hereby report the case of a patient who developed an iris cyst during a herpes zoster ophthalmicus infection.
lactic acidosis associated with high-dose niacin therapy. we have reported a case of lactic acidosis induced by ingestion of sustained-release nicotinic acid. prompt recovery followed treatment with glucose-containing fluids and discontinuation of nicotinic acid therapy.
the blink reflex in cluster headache. to investigate the involvement of the trigeminal system in cluster headache, in twelve subjects the electrically-elicited blink reflex during a symptomatic period was examined. in eleven cases, the amplitude of the contralateral r2 response on the symptomatic side was significantly lower, at the same stimulus intensity, than on the asymptomatic side (p = 0.005). the blink reflex can be useful to evaluate biological and drug-induced phenomena in cluster headache.
an alternative oxygen delivery system for infants and children in the post-anaesthesia care unit. this randomized controlled trial compared the compliance of a blow-by oxygen method with the standard face mask by children recovering from anaesthesia. the rate at which a face mask was rejected when applied to infants and children in pacu was compared with that of a proposed "hose" method. the efficacy of the "hose" as a method of oxygen supplementation in children at low and high risk for developing postoperative hypoxaemia was also compared with the face mask. using a nellcor n-200 pulse oximeter, 66 infants and children (mean age 2.3 yr, range 2 mo-6 yr) were continuously monitored for 30 min upon arrival in the pacu. patients were randomized to receive oxygen supplementation with either the face mask or the proposed "hose" method. the results showed a greater than 80 per cent rejection of the face mask in contrast to 100 per cent compliance with the "hose" method. the sao2 measurements following 5, 15 and 30 min of o2 supplementation with the hose were all significantly higher than the sao2 measurements obtained on room air upon arrival to the pacu. patients with pre-existing cardiopulmonary disease had a 20 per cent incidence of arterial oxygen desaturation upon arrival to the pacu versus 2.1 per cent of patients with no pre-existing disease. it is concluded that the "hose" is associated with high patient compliance and is effective in the pacu in increasing the sao2 in children at low or high risk of developing postoperative hypoxaemia.
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. ii. evidence for importance of amino acid metabolism in tolerance to ischemia. this study tests the importance of amino acid transamination in determining the tolerance of immature hearts to ischemic damage. amino acid transamination was inhibited metabolically by pretreatment with aminooxyacetic acid. the aminooxyacetic acid dose and duration were determined by incubating in vitro tissue homogenate and showing that an 8 mmol/l aoa dose for 5 minutes blocked 90% of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activity. control studies in nonischemic hearts showed that coronary perfusion with aminooxyacetic acid for 5 minutes did not impair myocardial performance. in contrast, pretreatment of immature puppies with aminooxyacetic acid severely impaired recovery after 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia (30% versus 85% recovery in untreated hearts, p less than 0.05). biochemical analyses of hearts undergoing ischemia showed aminooxyacetic acid to limit lactate production, impair glutamate utilization, prevent alanine production, and limit succinate accumulation (p less than 0.05). these data suggest that amino acid transamination is an important adaptive process in the immature heart that improves its resistance to ischemic damage.
gastrointestinal intraluminal ph in normal subjects and those with colorectal adenoma or carcinoma. recent evidence suggests that the production of colorectal carcinogens is facilitated when the ph of the colonic contents is alkaline. it follows that the colonic intraluminal ph of patients with colorectal neoplasms should be higher than in normal subjects. gastrointestinal ph has been measured in 30 patients with colorectal cancer and 37 patients with benign colorectal adenomas (using a ph sensitive radiotelemetry capsule). these values have been compared with those recorded in 66 normal subjects. no differences in gastrointestinal ph were found and the results did not support the hypothesis that colonic ph plays a role in the aetiology of colorectal neoplasia.
early outcome after placement of a metallic intracoronary stent: initial mayo clinic experience after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, 3 to 7% of patients have in-hospital coronary closure, and the risk of subsequent myocardial infarction is high, even with an urgent bypass operation. disrupted coronary morphologic integrity, particularly with large dissections, may be associated with an increased risk of acute coronary closure. a percutaneously placed coronary vascular stent may rapidly alleviate acute or threatened coronary closure and could reduce morbidity. between october 1989 and june 1990, placement of a balloon-expandable, flexible metallic coil (gianturco-roubin) coronary stent was attempted 16 times in 15 mayo clinic patients--for treatment of actual or threatened abrupt coronary closure in 10 patients, for primary treatment of a lesion judged to be at high risk for dissection with conventional balloon angioplasty in 1, and for elective treatment of restenotic lesions in 5. placement of the stent was successful in 15 attempts (94%). associated complications, which were uncommon, were similar to those noted after balloon angioplasty. no early deaths occurred, and no patient required coronary artery bypass grafting. stents were successfully placed in both urgent and elective circumstances in native coronary arteries and saphenous vein grafts, and they were used in primary atheromatous and restenotic lesions. our initial experience with this metallic coil stent indicates that it is efficacious for vascular disruption that is threatening or causing coronary closure after angioplasty. furthermore, elective placement of a stent may be safely undertaken in patients with high-risk coronary lesions or recurrent restenotic lesions. the long-term outcome in all groups of patients who receive coronary stents is unknown.
prevalence of primary sclerosing cholangitis in patients with ulcerative colitis. all patients greater than or equal to 16 years old with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis were identified in five well-defined catchment areas, representing 12.7% of the swedish population. exactly 1500 patients were retrieved, giving a point prevalence of 170/10(5) inhabitants. it was possible to obtain liver function test results less than 2 years old in 94% of the patients and to obtain endoscopic retrograde cholangiographic results in 65 of the 72 patients with abnormal serum alkaline phosphatase values. primary sclerosing cholangitis was diagnosed in 55 of the patients (3.7%). the prevalence of the disease was 5.5% in patients with substantial colitis and 0.5% in patients with distal colitis. there was a marked male predominance in cholangitis patients compared with colitis patients without cholangitis. ninety-five percent of the patients with cholangitis had substantial colitis, which was more than the 62% of patients without cholangitis who had colitis. female patients with cholangitis were older than male patients at the time of diagnosis of both cholangitis and colitis, which contrasted to the equal age at diagnosis of colitis in male and female patients without cholangitis.
increased risk of leukemia relapse with high-dose cyclosporine a after allogeneic marrow transplantation for acute leukemia. eighty-one patients with acute myeloid leukemia (anll, n = 44) or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all, n = 37), aged 10 to 50 years were randomized to receive 1 mg/kg per day (n = 41, group a) or 5 mg/kg per day (n = 40, group b) of cyclosporine a (cya) from day -1 to day +20 after bone marrow transplant (bmt). all patients received cya orally thereafter. all patients were prepared with cyclophosphamide (cy) 120 mg/kg and fractionated total body irradiation (tbi), and received unfractionated bm from an hla-identical sibling. the two groups were comparable for diagnosis, disease status, french-american-british (fab) classification, wbc count at diagnosis, cytogenetic abnormalities, extramedullary disease before bmt, donor/recipient age and sex, number of cells infused, and number of days with intravenous (iv) cya. median follow-up for surviving patients in group a was 983 v 632 days in group b. patients in group a had lower serum levels of cya (295 v 686 ng/ml, p = .004), lower bilirubin levels (1.9 v 2.6 mg/dl, p = .07), lower creatinine levels (0.9 v 1.4 mg/dl, p = .06), and a lower proportion of cd8+ cells in the peripheral blood (pb) within day +21 (19% v 28%, p = .07). first day to 0.5 x 10(9)/l neutrophils was comparable in the two groups (13 v 14 days; p = .1). in a cox model, the actuarial risk of acute graft-v-host disease (gvhd) grade ii+, after stratification for age (less than 20 years greater than) was significantly lower in group b patients (0.54, p = .04). the actuarial risk of developing chronic gvhd was comparable (p = .9). actuarial transplant-related mortality (trm) at 240 days was 28% and 26% (p = .8) in group a and b: the major cause of death was gvhd in group a (p = .02) and multiorgan toxicity in group b (p = .07). the actuarial risk of relapse at 2 years overall was 20% in group a and 52% in group b (p = .001); it was 9% v 43%, respectively, for patients in first remission (p = .0001) and 48% v 63% for patients in non-first complete remission (cr) (p = .1). actuarial 2-year disease-free survival (dfs) in group a and b was 58% v 32% (p = .02) for all patients, 71% v 35% (p = .01), in first remissions, and 30% v 23% (p = .2) in advanced disease.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
major histocompatibility complex antigen expression in the affected tissues in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. monoclonal antibody immunocytochemistry was used to examine spinal cord and muscle in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for changes that would indicate ongoing or potential immune activity. increased expression of class i and ii major histocompatibility complex (mhc) antigens was seen in the affected areas of spinal cord. new mhc expression was concentrated in phagocytes, particularly in degenerating white matter in which they were dispersed in the tissue and also packed around blood vessels. mhc antigen was not revealed in motor neurons or skeletal muscle fibers. an anti-pan-t-cell monoclonal revealed small numbers of t cells in degenerating white matter. similar changes have been seen in other neurodegenerative disorders. they suggest a potential for (secondary) cell-mediated activity in the affected areas rather than an ongoing mhc-restricted t-cell response. vessel-associated phagocytes may be a source of antigen to peripheral lymphoid tissue, stimulating production of the autoantibodies that have been described.
prospective trial comparing a combination ph probe-nasogastric tube with aspirated gastric ph in intensive care unit patients. upper gi bleeding related to stress ulcer syndrome is estimated to affect as much as 15% of patients in an icu. since the occurrence of bleeding after icu admission may be associated with increased morbidity and mortality, many efforts have been directed at defining optimal therapy for stress ulcer prophylaxis. titration of intragastric ph with antacids or iv doses of h2-receptor antagonists may prevent stress ulcer bleeding in high-risk icu patients. we evaluated a recently developed ph probe incorporated into an ng tube and compared it with aspiration of gastric contents using ph paper as a means to monitor ph in 22 surgical icu patients. regression analysis comparing the intragastric probe ph values with the aspirated ph values showed a good correlation between the two methods (r = .71). this new technique for intragastric ph measurement appears technically simple and clinically applicable for use on patients at risk for stress ulcer bleeding. it may be more accurate than ph paper in patients receiving antacids.
total gastrectomy for gastric cancer in the elderly. of 1070 patients with gastric cancers, 292 patients underwent total gastrectomy during 13 years. sixty patients were more than 70 years of age and 232 were under 69 years. the incidence of well-differentiated carcinomas and poorly differentiated carcinomas was the same in the elderly patients, whereas the latter was dominant in the young patients. however, there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding location, size, macroscopic patterns, extent of lymph metastases, or stage classification. the rates of preoperative surgical risk factors were significantly different between the two groups (p less than 0.01): 90.0% for the elderly and 34.9% for the young patients. however, the rates of postoperative morbidity and mortality were 31.7% and 3.3% for the elderly and 24.1% and 1.3% for the young patients, respectively, with no significant difference. the 5- and 10-year survival rates after curative total gastrectomy were 48.6% and 23.2% for the elderly compared with 49.4% and 33.6% for the young patients, respectively, with no significant difference. a 5-year survival rate after noncurative operation was 0% for the elderly and 6.4% for the young patients. these results indicate that, when performed for cure, total gastrectomy with systematic lymphadenectomy can provide good long-term results for elderly, as well as young, patients.
effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination. the potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis. one hundred forty rats were divided into two groups. in the control group, gelatin capsules containing feces (10(7) bacteria per milliliter) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen; in the second experimental group, a solution of cryoprecipitate, thrombin, and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination. fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations (0.01, 0.1, and 0.15 ml) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group. heavy peritoneal contamination (0.25, 0.3, and 0.5 ml) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups, with 80% of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours. however, in the moderately contaminated rats (0.2 ml of fecal inoculate), fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80% to 10%. in all survivors in the fibrin-treated group, intraperitoneal abscesses developed. with intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10(6) organisms, early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late, localized, nonlethal abscess formation. aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery.
tissue preparation for simultaneous flow cytometric quantitation of tumour associated antigens and dna in solid tumours. a multiparameter flow cytometric assay for the simultaneous study of tumour associated antigens (taa) and dna in fresh solid tumours was devised. cell suspensions were prepared by disaggregating unfixed solid tumour samples mechanically over a stainless steel mesh. indirect immunofluorescence was used to identify the taa, and dna was stained with propidium iodide. cell morphology was well preserved, cell clumping was negligible, and high quality indirect immunofluorescence quality indirect immunofluorescence and dna staining were obtained. the technique is simple, rapid, and reproducible. multiparameter assays can be developed to study prognostic indicators such as membrane oncoproteins, receptors, and multidrug resistance in solid tumours. with a suitable panel of antibodies the technique might become an aid in the differential diagnosis and biochemical diagnosis of some solid tumours.
topical treatment of necrotic foot ulcers in diabetic patients: a comparative trial of duoderm and mezinc. an open randomized controlled study was carried out of 44 diabetic patients with necrotic foot ulcers treated with adhesive zinc oxide tape (mezinc) or with an adhesive occlusive hydrocolloid dressing (duoderm). fourteen of the 21 patients treated with mezinc had their necrotic ulcers improved by at least 50% compared to six out of 21 with the hydrocolloid dressing (p less than 0.025). fifteen patients showed an increase in the area of necrosis during the course of the 5-week study and of these, 10 had been treated with the hydrocolloid dressing.
multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial: design, recruitment, and feasibility. m-heart investigators. a randomized control trial was set up to examine factors that influence restenosis and determine the effects of corticosteroids on restenosis following successful ptca. the rationale for the study agent chosen, design, recruitment, and feasibility, as well as initial patient demographic data and initial results are presented.
hepatocyte growth factor in human placenta and trophoblastic disease. the hepatocyte growth factor (hgf) is an acidic protein with a strong mitogenic effect on hepatocytes. hepatocyte growth factor mrna recently was cloned from a placental cdna library. here we demonstrate the purification of hgf from human placenta with heparin-agarose chromatography and tsk-heparin high-pressure liquid chromatography and describe the distribution of placental hgf by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal antibody to hgf. the yield of hgf from the placenta was approximately 100 to 200 times greater than that previously obtained from human plasma. placental hgf was expressed strongly in the villous syncytium, extravillous trophoblast, and amnionic epithelium, and, to a lesser degree in endothelial cells and villous mesenchyme. hepatocyte growth factor also was identified in the trophoblast of complete hydatidiform moles, choriocarcinomas, and a case of blighted ovum. the presence of hgf in an organ characterized by rapid cell proliferation during gestation and in trophoblastic tumors strongly suggests that the growth-regulating effect of hgf is not limited to hepatocytes.
noninvasive detection of occlusive disease of the carotid siphon and middle cerebral artery. recently, transcranial doppler sonography has been introduced into clinical practice for noninvasive investigation of the large intracranial arteries. to determine its accuracy for detection of stenosing or occluding lesions, 133 consecutive patients were studied by both transcranial doppler sonography and selective cerebral arteriography. statistical analysis of findings was done separately for various arterial segments. high values for sensitivity and specificity were found for detecting obstruction of the carotid siphon and main stem of the middle cerebral artery. diagnostic reliability of transcranial doppler sonography was also confirmed by the calculation of a chance-corrected measure of agreement (kappa), which was close to + 1 in all subanalyses. transcranial doppler sonography seems to be a valuable tool for noninvasive detection of intracranial lesions of the middle cerebral artery and carotid siphon.
a randomized clinical trial to compare two different approaches in women with chronic pelvic pain. one hundred six patients with chronic pelvic pain were randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups. in the standard-approach group, organic causes of pelvic pain were excluded first and diagnostic laparoscopy was routinely performed. if no somatic cause could be found, attention was given to other causes such as psychological disturbances. in the second group an integrated approach was chosen. from the beginning equal attention was devoted to somatic, psychological, dietary, environmental, and physiotherapeutic factors. in this group, laparoscopy was not routinely performed. both groups were similar with respect to clinical characteristics of the patients and the severity of their pain as assessed by various pain parameters. postcoital pain was reported by 27% of the patients. twenty percent of the patients had had negative sexual experiences such as childhood sexual abuse or rape. evaluation of the pain 1 year after the institution of treatment revealed that the integrated approach improved pelvic pain significantly more often than the standard approach for three out of four pain parameters (p less than .01). laparoscopy played no important role in the treatment of pelvic pain. it is concluded that equal attention to both organic and other causative factors from the beginning of therapy is more likely to result in a reduction of pelvic pain than is a standard approach.
multiple muscle enzyme release with psychiatric illness. associations (p less than .001) between serum concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) and glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (sgot) were observed in physically well patients with mania (n = 100, r = .70), depression (n = 138, r = .51), chronic schizophrenia (n = 85, r = .68), and schizoaffective or atypical psychosis (n = 39, r = .52) discharged from 1978 through 1981. in contrast, there was a negligible association between these enzymes in 90 nonpsychiatric inpatient control subjects. patients with mania (229.0 +/- 106.1 iu/l) showed significantly (t = 3.16, p less than .002, two-tailed) higher lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) levels than control subjects (191 +/- 41.7 iu/l) and a 14% incidence of abnormally high serum ldh levels vs. 1% among control subjects. results were unchanged when patients taking neuroleptics were excluded. these results indicate that psychiatric illness, especially mania, induces release of ldh and sgot, occasionally to unusually high levels. this is similar to previous reports of muscle creatine phosphokinase release in psychiatric patients. presumably, these enzymes are released from skeletal muscle in association with agitation, with muscle tension, or with blood stasis and local tissue hypoxia consequent to hypoactivity.
results of repeat percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for pulmonary valvar restenosis. follow-up cardiac catheterization studies were used to evaluate 105 patients who had undergone percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. fifteen of those patients who had peak systolic pulmonary valve gradients greater than = 40 mm hg at follow-up underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty. for the initial balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty, the mean ratio of the balloon diameter to pulmonary valve annulus diameter was 0.98 +/- 0.2; at repeat valvuloplasty the mean was 1.19 +/- 0.12. the immediate post-repeat balloon valvuloplasty results showed a reduction in the peak systolic gradient from a mean of 70.2 +/- 17.8 to 29.1 +/- 19.0 mm hg (p less than 0.001). this reduction in the gradient was maintained at a mean of 14.3 +/- 5.0 mm hg in 8 of the 10 patients who underwent further follow-up studies. we conclude that successful repeat balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty with the use of larger sized balloons is feasible in patients who have restenosis after the initial percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty--including partial but not complete dysplasia of the pulmonary valve.
primary adrenal insufficiency: a new cause of reversible gastric stasis. primary adrenal insufficiency is known to cause a wide spectrum of sometimes severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms; however, it has not previously been shown to be the cause of reversible gastric stasis. we have documented such a case in which the symptoms and physiologic abnormalities associated with gastric stasis were reversed by steroid replacement. a follow-up radionuclide gastric-emptying study after physiologic steroid replacement showed complete normalization of gastric emptying. although gastric stasis has long been suspected of being present with primary adrenal insufficiency, this represents the first case in which it has been documented, and so should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with chronic nausea and vomiting.
reduction of the membrane fluidity of human breast cancer cells by tamoxifen and 17 beta-estradiol. the intracellular steady-state levels of methotrexate were previously shown to be reduced in estrogen receptor (er)-negative human breast cancer mda-mb-436 cells and er-positive human breast cancer mcf7 cells following treatment with pharmacologically relevant concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol (e2). we now report that both e2 and tamoxifen (tmx) significantly decreased the fluidity of mcf7 and mda-mb-436 cellular membranes. with e2 or tmx at concentrations greater than 1 microm, perturbations in membrane fluidity were accompanied by apparently non-er-mediated cytotoxicity. alterations in membrane structure may have contributed to the cytotoxicity of high-dose endocrine therapy and to the ability of e2 to inhibit methotrexate transport and cytotoxicity in some human breast cancer cells.
celiac disease, brain atrophy, and dementia. we report 5 patients who developed dementia before age 60 and were subsequently found to have celiac disease (cd). intellectual deterioration ranged from moderate to severe, and diffuse cerebral or cerebellar atrophy was found on brain ct. diagnosis of cd was confirmed by findings of subtotal villous atrophy in jejunal biopsy specimens and positive serum reticulin and gliadin antibodies. conspicuously, gastrointestinal symptoms were mild. the gluten-free diet failed to improve the neurologic disability except in 1 patient. cd is a multisystem disorder and may play a role in some cases of presenile dementia. although the pathogenetic mechanisms are obscure, immunologic mechanisms are implicated.
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. xxi. reperfusate composition: superiority of blood cardioplegia over crystalloid cardioplegia in limiting reperfusion damage--importance of endogenous oxygen free radical scavengers in red blood cells. postischemic damage is caused partially by oxygen free radical-mediated injury. this study will show that (1) crystalloid cardioplegia with room air oxygen is deleterious because it is devoid of free radical scavengers and (2) blood cardioplegia limits damage because it contains endogenous free radical scavengers in red blood cells. methods: thirty-two dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 20 minutes of regional blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass. ten dogs received only the blood cardioplegic solution (containing its endogenous free radical scavengers); five received initial blood cardioplegia (5 minutes) with endogenous free radical scavengers (catalase and glutathione peroxidase) blocked by aminotriazole and n-ethylmaleimide, respectively; 12 received initial crystalloid cardioplegic solution oxygenated by room air (oxygen tension = 150 mm hg); seven without and five with exogenous free radical scavengers (superoxide dismutase, catalase, coenzyme q10); five received initial deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution (oxygen tension = 6 mm hg); and five received deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution. results: blood cardioplegia with endogenous free radical scavengers produced the best recovery of systolic shortening (69% systolic shortening) and resulted in the least histochemical damage (11% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining). the worst recovery and most damage occurred if blood cardioplegia was preceded by oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia (3% systolic shortening, 48% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia) or if free radical scavengers were blocked in the initial period of blood cardioplegia (3% systolic shortening, 41% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia). conversely, deoxygenation or supplementation of oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution with exogenous free radical scavengers restored 60% systolic shortening (p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia) and 54% systolic shortening (p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia) and reduced damage to 34% and 21% (both p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia). conclusion: blood cardioplegic solutions containing their own endogenous free radical scavengers are superior to crystalloid cardioplegic solutions, because they limit oxygen-mediated perfusion damage and restore contractile function. initial crystalloid cardioplegic washout negates the salutary effect of blood cardioplegia. exogenous free radical scavenger supplementation or deoxygenation of the cardioplegic reperfusate is necessary only if crystalloid cardioplegia is used.
the role of htlv in hiv-1 neurologic disease. we performed a serologic survey for antibodies to htlv-i/ii in the course of a longitudinal study of the neurologic complications of hiv-1 infection. nine (3.7%) of 242 hiv-1 seropositive subjects and none of 60 hiv-1 seronegative control subjects had antibodies to htlv-i/ii by elisa. western blot and polymerase chain reaction confirmed the presence of htlv-i in 2 subjects and htlv-ii infection in 2 others. both hiv-1/htlv-i coinfected subjects and 1 hiv-1/htlv-ii coinfected subject had a slowly progressive myelopathy clinically identical tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-i-associated myelopathy (tsp/ham). the presence of a myelopathy resembling tsp/ham in the coinfected subjects suggests that hiv-1 may enhance the expression of neurologic disease caused by htlv. patients with a progressive myelopathy occurring in association with hiv-1 infection should be serologically tested for the presence of htlv. establishing dual infection has therapeutic and prognostic import as 1 of the hiv-1/htlv-i subjects substantially improved with corticosteroids and the hiv-1/htlv-ii subject with myelopathy had a marked improvement in the absence of therapeutic intervention.
interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress in young adults. the interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress-induced cardiovascular reactivity was studied in white and black young adults aged 18-23 years. the cardiovascular response to difficult mental arithmetic was measured before and after 14 days of oral sodium loading (10 g nacl/day added to the usual diet). a sodium-sensitive blood pressure response occurred in 18.4% of whites and 37.3% of blacks. a significant correlation between blood pressure change and sodium excretion occurred in the sodium-sensitive group (r = - 0.28, p less than 0.01). high sodium intake did not augment blood pressure or heart rate response to the beta-adrenergic-mediated stimulus of mental arithmetic in the population, which was grouped by blood pressure, race, or sodium sensitivity.
clonogenic growth in vitro: an independent biologic prognostic factor in ovarian carcinoma a retrospective analysis was performed to investigate the prognostic value of growth in a human tumor clonogenic assay system for 84 ovarian cancer patients. a significant difference in survival probability (determined by the method of kaplan-meier) was found by univariate analysis between patients with ovarian carcinoma whose tumors manifested clonogenic growth (defined as growth of greater than or equal to five colonies per plate) and patients whose tumors did not grow. clonogenic growth in vitro was associated with worse prognosis (p = .007, log-rank test). a number of generally accepted prognostic factors, international federation of gynecology and obstetrics (figo) stage (p = .003), residual tumor mass (p less than .001), and grade (p = .011), were also of prognostic importance in our patient population. multivariate analysis, based on the cox regression model, identified clonogenic growth as a significant independent prognostic parameter in ovarian carcinoma (p = .031), in addition to the conventional risk factors. estimation of survival of individual patients was best accomplished by combining the factors of residual tumor mass (p less than .05), age (p less than .01), and clonogenic growth (p less than .05) (in sequence of decreasing potential of risk).
hyperinsulinaemia and microvascular angina ("syndrome x") glucose and insulin responses to a glucose load in 11 patients with angina attributed to microvascular coronary dysfunction were compared with those in 11 healthy subjects matched for age, sex, and body mass. stimulated hyperinsulinaemia was demonstrated in the microvascular angina group. the findings suggest a role for increased concentrations of insulin in coronary microvascular dysfunction.
origin and significance of diastolic doppler flow signals in the left ventricular outflow tract. diastolic doppler flow signals (greater than or equal to 0.2 m/s) in the left ventricular outflow tract have not been well characterized, and their origin and significance remain controversial. fifty-nine patients (55 +/- 16 years of age) with technically good doppler echocardiographic studies were studied prospectively. there were 14 normal subjects, 21 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, 10 with dilated cardiomyopathy and 14 with other cardiac disease. the rhythm was sinus in 55 and atrial fibrillation in 4. two distinct doppler flow signals were detected in the left ventricular outflow tract during diastole. these were termed e' (early) and a' (active) because they occurred 40 to 100 ms after higher velocity mitral inflow e (passive filling) and a (atrial contraction) signals. among 59 patients, e' signals were present in 48 (81%) and had a mean velocity of 0.41 +/- 0.23 m/s. in 55 patients with normal sinus rhythm, a' signals were present in 52 (95%) and had a mean velocity of 0.52 +/- 0.24 m/s. no a' signals were present in the four patients with atrial fibrillation. the e' and a' velocities by pulsed wave doppler ultrasound were low at the left ventricular apex and increased along the basal septum in the left ventricular outflow tract. prominent a' velocities (greater than or equal to 0.45 m/s) were seen in 62% of patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, 50% of normal subjects and 10% of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. the a' velocity was higher in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (0.63 +/- 0.26 m/s) than in those with a normal heart (0.45 +/- 0.16 m/s; p less than 0.05) or dilated cardiomyopathy (0.25 +/- 0.13 m/s; p less than 0.01). the major determinants of diastolic outflow tract velocity were the mitral inflow e and a velocities and left end-diastolic dimension, particularly when combined (r = 0.64, p less than 0.0001 for e'; r = 0.72, p less than 0.0001 for a'). distinctive e' and a' doppler outflow tract signals result from mitral inflow and may be detected in most patients with normal heart size. these e' and a' velocities increase from apex to base and are more prominent in patients with a small, normally contracting heart or left ventricular hypertrophy.
putative neuroexcitation in cerebral ischemia and brain injury. involvement of neuroexcitatory mechanisms in cerebral ischemia and brain injury was explored in experimental models of repetitive forebrain ischemia by temporary occlusion of carotid arteries in gerbils and cryogenic injury to the cerebral cortex in rats and gerbils. our observations in these models revealed a pattern of injury that involved some anatomic structures outside the areas of direct ischemic or traumatic insult. such foci of injury revealed conspicuously abnormal uptake of 45ca associated with slight or moderate neuronal alteration, whereas severely injured areas showed no 45ca uptake. electron microscopic observations revealed a characteristic presence of calcium in swollen dendrites, closely resembling pictures obtained in neuroexcitatory conditions such as epileptic seizures. abnormal uptake of 45ca was associated with apparent blood-brain barrier changes characterized by intracytoplasmic uptake of extravasated albumin into the neurons. protein synthesis assayed by in vivo [3h]leucine incorporation was reduced in regions showing calcium accumulation. our observations suggest that neuroexcitation may play an important role in development of secondary and chronic changes after ischemic or traumatic brain insults.
hyperinsulinaemia and microvascular angina ("syndrome x") glucose and insulin responses to a glucose load in 11 patients with angina attributed to microvascular coronary dysfunction were compared with those in 11 healthy subjects matched for age, sex, and body mass. stimulated hyperinsulinaemia was demonstrated in the microvascular angina group. the findings suggest a role for increased concentrations of insulin in coronary microvascular dysfunction.
the ams (altered mrna stability) protein and ribonuclease e are encoded by the same structural gene of escherichia coli. the in vitro and in vivo analysis of the ribonuclease e-deficient (rne-) and the altered mrna stability protein-deficient (ams-) strains of escherichia coli has demonstrated that they carry mutations in the same structural gene. strains encoding either thermolabile rnase e (rne-3071) or ams protein (ams-1) are defective in both rrna processing and mrna turnover. immediately after a shift to the nonpermissive temperature, the chemical decay rate of bulk mrna is slowed 2- to 3-fold, and within 70 min, precursors to 5s rrna begin to accumulate. in addition, all of the phenotypes associated with either the rne-3071 or the ams-1 alleles were complemented by a recombinant plasmid carrying ams+. when taken together with previous genetic studies, these results suggest that the role of ribonuclease e in mrna turnover involves endonucleolytic cleavages at the proposed acag(a/u)auuug consensus sequence.
585 nm for the treatment of port-wine stains. although the flashlamp-pulsed-dye laser has been successfully used for the treatment of port-wine stains (pws) at 577 nm, a number of adult patients had incomplete clearance of their birthmarks with this treatment modality because of residual vessels lying beyond the 0.75-mm penetration depth of 577-nm irradiation. fifteen adult patients, of whom nine were previously treated with limited success at 577 nm (group a), and six untreated patients (group b) were included in the study. for the group a patients, treatment with 585 nm produced successful clearance of the birthmark. for the six patients in group b, parallel treatment of different sites of the same lesion coupled with skin biopsies and histologic examination revealed that a change in the wavelength from 577 to 585 nm allowed the laser light to penetrate from the midreticular dermis into the subcutaneous fat. this explained the clearance achieved at 585 nm and not at 577 nm.
adjuvant antibiotic therapy in duodenal ulcers treated with colloidal bismuth subcitrate. persistence of helicobacter pylori after duodenal ulcer healing is associated with high rates of ulcer relapse. we compared colloidal bismuth subcitrate alone with cbs combined with one of four antibiotic regimens in the treatment of duodenal ulcers. endoscopy and antral biopsies were performed before treatment and four weeks afterwards. biopsy specimens were examined for histological evidence of gastritis and by gram stain and culture for h pylori infection. altogether 141 patients were allocated to one of five treatment groups. giving cbs and metronidazole (400 mg tid for 7 days) with and without amoxycillin (500 mg tid) achieved higher clearance rates of h pylori than treatment with cbs alone (p less than 0.01). these two combinations also achieved higher rates of antral gastritis healing than cbs alone (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05 respectively). susceptibility to metronidazole was tested in 29 isolates before and in seven isolates after treatment with metronidazole by disc diffusion test and minimum inhibitory concentration assay. twenty seven (93%) of the isolates were sensitive before treatment while six of seven (86%) were resistant afterwards. four of the six resistant strains had acquired resistance during treatment and one of these had acquired metronidazole resistance despite concomitant treatment with amoxycillin, to which it remained sensitive. cbs with adjuvant metronidazole at a dose of 400 mg tid for seven days significantly improves the eradication of h pylori compared with cbs alone. acquired metronidazole resistance, however, seems to be an important cause of failure to eradicate h pylori.
trial of brief intermittent neuroleptic prophylaxis for selected schizophrenic outpatients: clinical and social outcome at two years. objective--to evaluate a novel approach to the prophylaxis of schizophrenic relapse characterised by administration of brief courses of neuroleptic for the earliest non-psychotic signs of relapse (prodromal symptoms). design--two year follow up of subjects randomised, double blind, to receive either active (control group) or placebo (intermittent group) depot neuroleptic medication. both groups received brief courses of oral neuroleptic when prodromal symptoms or relapse occurred. setting--psychiatric outpatient department, charing cross hospital, london. subjects--54 stable patients in remission who met the american psychiatric association's dsm-iii criteria for schizophrenia on the basis of case notes. main outcome measures--survival without relapse, survival without hospitalisation, point prevalence of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia, structured assessment of social functioning (social adjustment scale ii), and frequency of prodromal symptoms. results--of 19 relapses recorded over two years, 10 (53%) were preceded by non-psychotic prodromal signs. survival rates for both relapse and hospitalisation were worse with intermittent treatment than continuous treatment over the two year follow up: 92% of controls and only 54% of patients given intermittent treatment survived the two year period without hospitalisation. prolonged or frequent relapses as well as episodes of prodromal symptoms were more frequent with intermittent treatment. lower scores for extrapyramidal side effects were recorded in the intermittent treatment group, but periodic assessments of social functioning failed to show any social advantages from this. conclusion--the findings are at variance with a previous report of one year follow up in this cohort and attest to the superiority of continuous depot neuroleptic prophylaxis in preventing both psychotic and neurotic or dysphoric morbidity in schizophrenia.
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. the incidence, clinical characteristics, and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide (vm-26), etoposide (vp-16), or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy. fifty (46%) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions. the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52% (95% confidence limits, 41% and 63%) for vm-26, compared with 34% (95% confidence limits, 24% and 44%) for vp-16. the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose. this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16. all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification, characterized by urticaria, angioedema, flushing, rashes, or hypotension, and 86% of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria. there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication, and no deaths occurred. the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported, but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity.
why do lean hypertensives have higher mortality rates than other hypertensives? findings of the hypertension detection and follow-up program. specific causes of death were analyzed for 10,908 participants in the hypertension detection and follow-up program, to explore possible explanations for the observed excess 8.3-year mortality from all causes in hypertensives with low body mass. although the cardiovascular mortality rate among men in the lowest decile of body mass (body mass index 21.96 or less) was 50% higher than that of men in the median class (body mass index 26.4-28.8), death rate for noncardiovascular deaths was more than 2 1/2 times higher in men with lean versus median body mass. the pattern was similar among women. among noncardiovascular causes, striking differences in mortality rates between lean hypertensives and those of average body mass were observed for cirrhotic death (relative risk of 12+ in men and 11+ in women), for nonmalignant respiratory disease in men (relative risk of 7+), for violent death (both sexes), and for malignant neoplasms in men. prevalence of smoking was almost twice as high in the lowest compared with the median body mass group; among the lean, excess deaths, particularly noncardiovascular deaths, were concentrated among smokers. thus, male smokers in the lowest decile of body mass constituted only 3% of the study population, but contributed 8% of all deaths, 11% of all noncardiovascular deaths, and 22% of all cirrhotic deaths. a larger proportion of deaths occurred early in follow-up in the lean versus other hypertensives, suggesting occult disease among the lean at baseline. there was no evidence that more severe or treatment-resistant hypertension was present in or could explain excess mortality among the hypertensives with low body mass. the inference from the findings is not that overweight is protective for hypertensives nor that excess risk is due to leanness per se. rather, a reasonable hypothesis, particularly from findings on specific causes of death, is that excess mortality in lean hypertensives is due to deleterious lifestyles, particularly smoking and excess alcohol intake, contributing to both leanness and risk of death.
the relationship of headache symptoms with severity and duration of attacks. efforts to develop clinically useful headache classification schemes have generally focused on linking specific symptom groupings with specific headache subtypes. an alternative conceptual approach, the "severity model" of headache, considers a continuum of headache ranging from mild to severe forms with specific headache subtypes distinguished by level of severity rather than unique constellations of symptoms. a population-based telephone interview was carried out among 10,169 subjects aged 12-29 to estimate the prevalence of serious headaches and better characterize symptoms that accompany headache attacks. in an analysis of frequency of occurrence, pain and duration of recent (within 4 weeks prior to interview) headache attacks, the data revealed that common symptoms (such as forehead pain and pain in the back of the head, neck and shoulders) were reported frequently, but headaches with these symptoms were generally characterized by low levels of pain and short duration. although not an original study objective, the data were analyzed to determine whether distinct symptom constellations could be identified or whether symptoms overlapped between headache types. symptoms of migraine were frequently experienced concomitant with tension-type symptoms; the resultant headaches were usually characterized as moderate in intensity. in contrast, symptoms usually associated with migraine in the absence of concomitant tension-type symptoms were infrequently experienced, but resulted in headaches causing the greatest disability. the data provide some support for the severity model of headache.
a multicentre follow-up study of 1152 patients with myasthenia gravis in italy. a multicentre retrospective study was carried out on the characteristics and course of myasthenia gravis (mg) in italy. data from 1152 patients, fairly representative of the myasthenic population seeking medical advice, were analysed for diagnostic criteria, clinical aspects and therapeutic approaches. mean follow-up was 4.9 years. the disease was correctly diagnosed within 2 years of the onset in 80% of cases. onset of symptoms peaked in the second and third decade in females and fell between 20 and 59 years in males. at first observation 87% of the patients had generalized mg. maximal worsening was observed within 3 years in 77% of patients. at the last follow-up, 35% of cases were symptom-free (pharmacological remission 24%, remission without treatment 11%). the more severe the disease at the first observation and at the maximal worsening of symptoms, the lower was the proportion of remissions. steroids were given in 54% and immunosuppressants in 18%. thymectomy was performed in 72%, mostly in women, younger than age 40, and with generalized mg. thymectomy seemed to improve the course of the disease, mostly in patients operated on shortly after diagnosis and those with generalized mild-to-moderate disease and with a normally involuted thymus. mg was lethal in 4% of patients, principally men, older than 40, in grade 3 or worse at first observation, with a short history of disease, and with thymona.
pathogenesis of gallstones. the many developments in nonoperative methods for the treatment of gallstone disease underscore the importance of understanding the pathogenesis of these stones. elucidation of the factors responsible for nucleation of crystals and the mechanism by which it occurs would appear to be the challenge if we are to define the cascade of events that results in gallstone formation.
recurrent peritonitis: evidence for possible viral etiology. a 45-year-old woman who was treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) developed recurrent peritonitis characterized by cloudy effluents, elevated white blood cell (wbc) counts (predominantly lymphocytes), and negative culture results. this case report suggests that she may have had viral peritonitis as indicated by a positive viral culture, the presence of viral antibodies in serum and peritoneal dialysis effluent (pde), hematological findings, and cell surface receptor studies. the possibility of a viral cause should be considered in patients with culture-negative peritonitis, especially if they do not respond to antibiotics.
an intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis: case report. the authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors, who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater, spinal cord, retroperitoneum, pericardium, and mediastinum. systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic weber-christian disease, except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis. immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis x, because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not t-zone histiocyte markers. differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed.
the ectopic ovary. a case report and review of the literature. we describe an ectopic ovary in a stillborn female. to our knowledge, this is the first report of an extra ovary in an infant. this case prompted a review of ectopic ovarian tissue, which is known by a variety of terms, the most common being accessory ovary and supernumerary ovary. we suggest that (1) many of the past cases should be classified as ovarian implants rather than true embryologically derived ectopic tissue; and (2) the terms accessory ovary and supernumerary ovary are imprecise and should be modified.
insulin-like growth factors are mitogenic for human keratinocytes and a squamous cell carcinoma. normal adult human keratinocytes in monolayer culture and scl-1, a skin-derived squamous-cell carcinoma cell line, were investigated for the expression of receptors for insulin-like growth factors (igf) and insulin. as demonstrated by affinity crosslinking, radiolabeled igf-1, igf-2, and insulin bound specifically to both cell types. each cell expressed type i igf receptors, with affinity for igf-1 greater than igf-2 much greater than insulin. insulin receptors, with highest affinity for insulin, were also present on both cells. however, keratinocytes and scl-1 cells differed in 125i-igf-2 binding. 125i-igf-2-bound to both type i and type ii igf receptors in normal keratinocytes, but bound predominantly to membrane-associated igf binding proteins in scl-1. igf-1 was slightly more potent than igf-2 in stimulating growth of both keratinocytes and scl-1 cells. in keratinocytes, concentrations of igf-1 ranging from 5-100 ng/ml, and of igf-2 from 50-100 ng/ml, resulted in a significant increase in cell number. at the maximum dose of 100 ng/ml, either igf-1 or igf-2 caused a 2.3-times increase in cell number. in scl-1 cells, igf-1 was more potent than igf-2 or insulin at lower concentrations, but either igf-1 or igf-2 at the maximal concentration of 333 ng/ml stimulated a 4.7-times increase in thymidine incorporation. the stimulatory effect of insulin in scl-1 was 10-50 times less potent than that of the igf. the effect of either igf on scl-1 was completely inhibited by the type i igf receptor antibody alpha ir-3, suggesting that both igfs are mitogenic through the type i igf receptor. insulin action was partially blocked by alpha ir-3, suggesting that insulin can act through both the insulin and type i igf receptors. it thus appears that igf-1 and igf-2 are mitogens for normal and transformed human keratinocytes and that their actions are primarily mediated through the type i igf receptor, whereas insulin is a mitogen through both the igf-1 receptor and the insulin receptor.
renal artery stenosis: in vivo perfusion mr imaging. the intravoxel incoherent motion (ivim) model of perfusion and diffusion imaging was applied to an in vivo canine model of unilateral renal artery stenosis and was compared with relative renal blood flow determination with radioactive microspheres. the percentage relative renal blood flow as determined with radioactive microspheres correlated closely with the percentage apparent diffusion coefficient. if this method can be adapted to human imaging, it may provide a noninvasive means for detecting renal artery stenosis.
the role of adjuvant chemotherapy following cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer: a prospective comparative trial. we assigned 91 patients with deeply invasive, pathological stage p3, p4 or n+ and mo transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (with or without squamous or glandular differentiation) to adjuvant chemotherapy or to observation after radical cystectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection. for most patients chemotherapy was planned as 4 courses at 28-day intervals of 100 mg./m.2 cisplatin, 60 mg./m.2 doxorubicin and 600 mg./m.2 cyclophosphamide. a significant delay was shown in the time to progression (p = 0.0010) with 70% of the patients assigned to chemotherapy free of disease at 3 years compared to 46% in the observation group. median survival time for patients in the chemotherapy group was 4.3 years compared to 2.4 years in the observation group (p = 0.0062). in addition to treatment groups, important prognostic factors included age, gender and lymph node status. the number of involved lymph nodes was the single most important variable. we recommend adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with invasive transitional cell carcinoma after definitive surgical resection.
bronchogenic carcinoma in situ on the carina eradicated by endobronchial biopsy. squamous cell carcinoma in situ of the bronchus is a rare disorder in an isolated clinical setting. we present a case of carcinoma in situ located on the carina with excisional biopsy via a fiberoptic bronchoscope and no recurrence after five years. to our knowledge, this represents the only case of carcinoma in situ treated solely with excisional biopsy. this case further emphasizes the importance of securing biopsy specimens for all mucosal abnormalities and raises the possibility of limited excision as sole therapy for carcinoma in situ.
extracranial metastases of medulloblastoma in adults: literature review. a consecutive series of 30 cases of extracranial medulloblastoma metastases in adults is analysed. the majority of the patients were males with a 3:1 male/female ratio. bone was the most frequent site of metastases in adults (77%) and children (78%), followed by lymph nodes (33%) in both children and adults. lung metastases were more common in adults (17%), but liver metastases occurred more frequently in children (15%). possible routes of spread and development of metastases are discussed, with special emphasis on the role of shunts in tumour seeding. distant extracranial metastatic spread of medulloblastoma occurs at the rate of 7.1%. mean interval between operation of the primary tumour and the discovery of metastases was shorter in children (20 months) than in adults (36 months). survival after the discovery of metastases was also shorter in children (5 months) than in adults (9.5 months). shunts were associated with an earlier appearance of metastases and with a poorer prognosis. a detailed review of the literature of 119 cases of medulloblastoma with extracranial metastases is provided.
arterial protection: a neglected but crucial therapeutic goal. hypertension is accompanied by 2 major types of arterial pathologic conditions: smooth muscle hypertrophy of arteriolar resistance vessels and atherosclerosis, primarily involving the larger arteries. smooth muscle hypertrophy may develop either as a secondary defense against elevated intravascular pressure or as a primary defect responsible for the increased pressure. insulin and a number of other trophic stimuli may play a pathogenetic role in vascular hypertrophy. reducing blood pressure and trophic stimuli may cause hypertrophy to be reversed. because atherosclerosis may be markedly accelerated by hypertension, especially in the presence of concomitant risk factors, such as hypercholesterolemia, cigarette smoking and diabetes mellitus, antihypertensive treatment may attenuate or even reverse the extent of atherosclerosis, but only when the causative factors are also corrected. some commonly used antihypertensive agents, e.g., diuretics and beta blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, often aggravate hypercholesterolemia and glucose intolerance, thereby diminishing their potential protective value. other types of drug therapy, such as alpha blockers, beta blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity or other vasodilator activity, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium entry blockers that may not induce biochemical changes, should provide better control of multiple risks and thereby better protection against atherosclerosis. with a better understanding of how hypertension induces arterial damage, clinicians will be able to provide more appropriate treatment and, it is hoped, alleviate such damage.
detection of vascular complications in renal allografts with color doppler flow imaging. one hundred ninety-five color doppler flow (cdf) examinations were performed in 146 renal allografts to assess the capabilities of this technique in detecting intra- or extrarenal vascular complications. conventional angiography was also performed in 44 transplants. in the group of transplants with angiographic correlation, cdf sonography enabled correct identification of 30 of 34 vascular complications. cdf showed 10 of 11 significant stenoses of the renal artery or of one of its main branches. there were two false-positive renal artery stenoses (one normal artery and one 40% stenosis). nine of nine renal artery thromboses and the single pseudoaneurysm were also identified. within the parenchyma, cdf sonography demonstrated five of five segmental infarcts, two of two postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas, and three of six segmental or interlobar artery stenoses. measurement of peak systolic velocity showed a significant difference (p less than .05) between a group (n = 8) with significant stenosis of the renal artery or one of its main branches (mean, 215.2 cm/sec +/- 32) and a group (n = 14) without stenosis (mean, 99.2 cm/sec +/- 19).
cyclic pelvic pain. cyclic pelvic pain is a common gynecologic problem caused by relatively few diseases, which usually can be diagnosed and remedied quickly. some complaints reflect normal physiologic aspects of the menstrual cycle (mittelschmerz, menstrual awareness). premenstrual syndrome can be diagnosed, but an effective and convenient treatment is lacking. dysmenorrhea is the commonest source of cyclic pain, diagnosed by its characteristic history and rapid relief on administration of antiprostaglandin agents. endometriosis is diagnosed surgically and best treated either surgically then, or medically by danazol or gnrh agonists. in contrast, adenomyosis is a problem commonly encountered in later life, and hysterectomy is usually needed for both definitive diagnosis and treatment.
the antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide is not prostacyclin dependent. we tested the hypothesis that vascular prostacyclin synthesis is stimulated by hydrochlorothiazide and could account for some of the drug's antihypertensive effect. we studied 13 patients with mild essential hypertension in a randomized, double-blind design to assess the effects of indomethacin on hydrochlorothiazide's ability to lower blood pressure, alter body weight, stimulate plasma renin activity, and modulate vascular prostacyclin biosynthesis as assessed by the urinary excretion of the major enzymatically produced metabolite of prostacyclin, 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha (pgf1 alpha), measured by gc/ms. administration of hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg daily for 2 weeks, was associated with a significant decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in both supine (systolic, 148 +/- 3 to 136 +/- 3 mm hg; diastolic, 97 +/- 2 to 94 +/- 3 mm hg) and upright (systolic, 151 +/- 4 to 131 +/- 2 mm hg; diastolic, 103 +/- 2 to 97 +/- 3 mm hg) positions. hydrochlorothiazide administration resulted in a 1 kg weight loss and stimulation of plasma renin activity from 1.7 +/- 0.4 to 5.3 +/- 1.1 ng angiotensin i/ml/hr. however, the urinary excretion of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1 alpha was unchanged after administration of hydrochlorothiazide (86 +/- 13/ng/gm creatinine during placebo, 74 +/- 13 ng/gm during week 1 of hydrochlorothiazide, and 70 +/- 9 ng/gm during week 2 of the drug). administration of indomethacin, 50 mg twice a day, resulted in greater than 60% inhibition of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1 alpha excretion but did not affect the antihypertensive response to hydrochlorothiazide. indomethacin did not oppose the diuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazide as assessed by weight loss but did attenuate the rise in plasma renin activity. our data demonstrate that the blood pressure-lowering effect of a thiazide diuretic does not require enhanced prostacyclin synthesis and the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin does not antagonize the antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide.
noninvasive diagnosis of right-sided extracardiac conduit obstruction by combined magnetic resonance imaging and continuous-wave doppler echocardiography. right-sided extracardiac conduits are frequently complicated by obstruction over time. we compared the utility of two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of postoperative right-sided obstruction with cardiac catheterization and angiography in 10 patients with xenograft or homograft conduits. correlation (r = 0.95) between continuous-wave doppler estimates and catheter pullback pressure gradients across the conduits was excellent. echocardiography could only visualize five of 10 conduits in their entirety. magnetic resonance imaging visualized all conduits and showed statistically significant (kappa = 0.58) agreement with angiography in the localization and estimation of severity of a variety of right-sided obstructions in these patients. however, flow voids created by the metallic ring around xenograft valves led to a false negative diagnosis of valvular stenosis in four patients when magnetic resonance imaging was used alone. doppler studies correctly indicated obstruction in these patients. the combination of magnetic resonance imaging studies and continuous-wave doppler echocardiography can be useful to noninvasively evaluate right-sided obstruction in postoperative patients with right-sided extracardiac conduits.
capillary hemangioma of the right main bronchus treated by sleeve resection in infancy. respiratory distress developed in a 5-month-old female infant with roentgenographic evidence of hyperinflation of the right lung. bronchoscopy revealed a vascular tumor extending from the medial wall of the right main bronchus leading to a check-valve mechanism. radionuclide lung scans showed ventilation and perfusion of the right side reduced to 36 and 11% of the total lung ventilation and perfusion, respectively. at the age of 7 months a sleeve of the right main bronchus was resected and a reanastomosis performed. the operation specimen contained a capillary hemangioma measuring 1.2 x 0.6 cm. the postoperative course was uneventful. perfusion of the right lung had markedly improved 6 months after the operation, and at the age of 2 yr and 9 months it was completely normal. capillary hemangiomas must be considered a cause of bronchial obstruction in infancy, and surgery can be performed successfully.
functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma: analysis of 25 cases. the facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas, either intentionally to ensure complete removal, or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification. in such cases we have, if possible, sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically, either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft. we analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987. the first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months, and there was continued improvement for several years. recovery was graded from 1 to 6. the anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves, in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored (grade 5 or higher). in 11 of the 25 cases, facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good (grade 2 or 3). a grade 1 result, with no perceivable facial dysfunction, was never achieved. typically, oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least. facial appearance was better at rest than with movement, which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis. closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary. when the facial nerve is severed, intraoperative suture is recommended, because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance.
effects of preoperative radiotherapy on rectal cancer. preliminary report on combining radiation with intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine. between 1976 and 1983, 61 patients with advanced rectal cancer underwent miles' operation at the authors' institution. all lesions were located 10 cm or less from the anal verge. of these patients, 25 were treated by surgery alone and 36 were given preoperative radiotherapy. the total dose was 42.6 gy, (30.6 gy [1.8 gy/fr x 5/week]) delivered to the entire pelvis plus an additional 12 gy (3.0 gy/fr x 4/week) delivered to the primary tumor. of 36 patients, 21 were administered intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine at the time of boost radiation and 15 were treated without intratumor injections. during the follow-up period (3 to 9 years), in the groups of patients who underwent radiation, there was only one local failure (2.8 percent). in contrast, in the group of patients treated by surgery alone, eight local failures occurred (32 percent). the intratumor injection significantly enhanced the effect of radiation on tumor regression. the incidence of positive lymph nodes was higher in patients in the surgery alone group than it was in the groups treated with radiation. there was no difference in the rate of distant metastasis among the three treatment groups. the five-year survival rate for the radiation with intratumor injection group, radiation alone group, and surgery alone group, was 77.8, 69.2, and 56.0 percent, respectively. no severe complication was experienced.
glycolysis as primary energy source in tumor cell chemotaxis. the energy requirements via glycolytic pathways were directly measured in migrating tumor cells. motility in the metastatic human melanoma cell line a2058, stimulated by insulinlike growth factor i (igf-i), depends on glycolysis in the presence of glucose as its principal source of energy. motility in glucose-free medium was 75% reduced and utilized mitochondrial respiration (inhibited by oligomycin). with increasing (physiologic) glucose concentrations, there was a dramatic shift to anaerobic glycolysis as the energy source and 93% elimination of the oligomycin inhibition of motility. oxamate, an inhibitor of glycolysis, inhibited motility at all glucose concentrations. co2 production from glycolysis and from the hexose monophosphate shunt was measured in migrating tumor cells. the time course and glucose-dose dependence of glycolytic co2 production correlated directly with motility. in contrast, mitochondrial co2 production was inversely related to glucose concentration. a monoclonal antibody for the igf-i receptor inhibited both motility and glycolytic co2 production, indicating that both processes are receptor mediated.
immunohistochemical study of cytokeratin expression in normal and pathologic middle ear mucosa of the rat. the expression of cytokeratins in the epithelium of the middle ear and external auditory meatus of the rat was studied on cryosections of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-decalcified specimens by use of a panel of monoclonal antibodies. the normal middle ear epithelium revealed a complex cytokeratin profile, including regional differences. the induction of sterile middle ear effusions resulted in increased cytokeratin expression. infective effusions were accompanied by both quantitative and qualitative changes in the cytokeratin expression patterns. the differences observed between the cytokeratin profiles of external meatal skin and those of middle ear epithelium may form a useful tool for research into cholesteatoma development.
localization of trophoblastic disease with vaginal ultrasonography. a report of two cases. two patients had elevated beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels and normal abdominal ultrasound examinations. in both instances transvaginal ultrasonography demonstrated a persistent nodule of trophoblastic disease confirmed at the time of hysterectomy. this new imaging modality can assist in the diagnosis of persistent trophoblastic disease in the uterus.
neodymium:yag laser treatment of bladder hemangiomas. we present 3 cases of bladder hemangiomas, one single and two multiple, with a long-term history of recurrent hematuria, treated with endoscopic neodymium:yag (yttrium, aluminum, garnet) laser photocoagulation, and obtaining good results.
spontaneous decompression of syringomyelia: magnetic resonance imaging findings. case report. the case of a 30-year-old woman with chiari i malformation and a cervicothoracic syrinx is presented. the patient was followed clinically over a 2 1/2-year period. spontaneous and complete resolution of the syrinx, as documented by serial magnetic resonance studies, was accompanied by only a minimal change in objective symptomatology.
perturbation of differentiated functions during viral infection in vivo. in vivo relationship of host genes and lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus to growth hormone deficiency. retarded growth and disordered glucose metabolism secondary to growth hormone (gh) deficiency are associated with persistent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (lcmv) infection of gh-producing cells in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland. infected c3h/st mice, which are h-2k haplotype, become gh deficient, and lcmv replicates in most (more than 90%) of their gh-producing cells. in contrast, balb/wehi and swr/j mice, which are h-2d and h-2q, respectively, do not develop this gh deficiency, and less than 20% of their gh-producing cells are infected by virus. yet all three strains infected at birth with lcmv strain armstrong (arm) carry equivalent amounts of virus in their blood, brain, heart, kidney, liver, spleen, and thymus throughout life. of five additional h-2k murine strains tested, c3h/hej and cba/n mice develop this gh-like disorder, whereas neither akr/j, b10/br, nor balb/kae mice do, indicating that the h-2k haplotype does not control the gh susceptibility. furthermore c3h/sw mice, which have the h-2b haplotype on the c3h background, develop the disease, again negating any correlation with h-2k but inferring that the c3h background is responsible. one half of the hybrid offspring produced by crossing the c3h/st gh-deficient strain with balb/wehi-resistant mice develop the disease, but the trait is not sex linked. f1 hybrid backcrosses with the susceptible c3h/st parental strain or resistant balb/wehi strain indicate the involvement of more than two genes. hence the development of a gh deficiency by lcmv-infected c3h/st mice is not linked to the mhc haplotype, is not sex linked, and is not due to a dominant gene. multiple genes are involved and these are related to c3h background.
acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis: a review of treatment approaches. some authors describe acute bacterial prostatitis as a self-limiting disease, and as with any other acute septic condition, parenteral broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is indicated. chronic bacterial prostatitis, however, is associated with a causative organism persisting unaltered in prostatic fluid and leading to relapsing urinary tract infections. in the 1970s, several workers produced a classification system and bacteriologic localization cultures for establishing the diagnosis of prostatitis. krieger and crawford point to an important factor that is omitted in many clinical trials with episodes of chronic bacterial prostatitis in men. if localization studies of the prostate infection are attempted in the presence of bacteriuria, the urine must be sterilized with nitrofurantoin or penicillin g. urine cultures obtained from first-voided urine, bladder urine, and urine voided after prostatic massage should show no growth, and the expressed prostatic secretion can then be examined for evidence of prostatic infection. this procedure reduces the contamination of the expressed prostatic secretion by the organism from the urinary tract infection. this is important, because antibiotic treatment is determined by the sensitivity of the organism isolated from the prostate as well as by the ability of the antibiotics to penetrate the prostate. meares outlines the pharmacokinetic features needed for drug diffusion into prostatic fluid and provides detailed information on the physical characteristics of the prostate during acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis. unfortunately, the choice of an ideal drug cannot be extrapolated from this information because pharmacodynamic principles cannot predict clinical efficacy. some authors find that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim has the best cure rate in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis.
pars plana vitrectomy for acute retinal detachment in penetrating ocular injuries. we studied 41 eyes with acute retinal detachment after penetrating ocular trauma in a retrospective cohort analysis. pars plana vitrectomy was performed in 28 eyes, while the remaining 13 eyes had only primary repair and closure of the wound. the two groups differed in the type of trauma (more gunshot wounds in the vitrectomy group and more blunt injuries in the nonvitrectomized group). visual success (visual acuity of 5/200 or better) was observed in 10 (37%) of the eyes treated by vitrectomy compared with one (8%) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group. anatomic success was achieved in 21 (75%) of the eyes in the vitrectomy group but in only one (8%) of those in the nonvitrectomy group. enucleation or phthisis was observed in seven (54%) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group compared with only five (18%) in the vitrectomy group. significant prognostic factors for anatomic outcome in the vitrectomy group were the location of the laceration and the presence of the lens.
a case of multiple pilar tumors and pilar cysts involving the scalp and back. the case of a patient with multiple proliferating trichilemmal tumors and trichilemmal cysts of the scalp and back is discussed. the multicentric presentation of this tumor is unusual and, to our knowledge, has not been described previously. the appearance of trichilemmal cysts in association with multiple proliferating trichilemmal tumors suggests a common histogenesis of these two neoplasms. the typical presenting features, histologic description, and recommended treatment for these tumors are reviewed.
high nacl diet enhances arterial baroreceptor reflex in nacl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats. previous studies from our laboratory have shown that arterial baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity is blunted in the nacl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr-s) compared with either the nacl-resistant spontaneously hypertensive rat (shr-r) or the normotensive wistar-kyoto (wky) rat. in the current study, the effect of dietary nacl supplementation on arterial baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate was assessed in shr-s and control shr-r and wky rats. male shr-s, shr-r, and wky rats were fed diets containing either 1% or 8% nacl beginning at 7 weeks of age and were studied at age 9-10 weeks. arterial baroreceptor reflex-mediated changes in lumbar sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate were recorded in conscious, unrestrained rats during phenylephrine-induced (15-40 micrograms/kg/min) and nitroprusside-induced (15-300 micrograms/kg/min) changes in mean arterial pressure. shr-s maintained on a 1% nacl diet had blunted baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity during acute increases in map compared with shr-r and wky rats (p less than 0.05). after ingestion of the 8% nacl diet, this blunting was absent, indicating enhancement of baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity. shr-s maintained on a 1% nacl diet also had blunted arterial baroreceptor control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity during nitroprusside-induced decreases in mean arterial pressure compared with wky rats, but this was not significantly altered during ingestion of the 8% nacl diet.
hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade. a spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin. the associated persistent hyponatraemia, which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone, rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis.
valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and cerebral septic emboli. cerebral septic emboli complicate the cases in 20% to 40% of patients with left-sided endocarditis but the management of these patients who require a valvar operation remains unclear. from 1980 to 1988, the incidence of cerebral septic embolus was 42% (n = 45) among 106 patients with endocarditis who underwent valve replacement at the university of illinois hospital in chicago. of these 45 patients, 69% (n = 31) had symptomatic cerebral septic infarctions and 31% (n = 14) were asymptomatic. findings on cerebral computed tomographic scans included ischemic infarcts (n = 36, 80%), hemorrhagic infarcts (n = 5, 11%), normal studies (n = 2, 4%), and unknown (n = 2, 4%). neurological complications after valve replacement included postoperative strokes (n = 6, 6%), cerebral abscesses (n = 2, 2%), and seizure (n = 1, 1%). the presence of a hemorrhagic infarct preoperatively predisposed to a perioperative stroke (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, cerebral septic infarctions, both symptomatic and asymptomatic, are common among patients with endocarditis referred for valvar operation. in the absence of a hemorrhagic infarct, valve replacement can be performed with minimal risk of a perioperative stroke.
percutaneous rotational contact biliary lithotripsy: initial clinical results with the kensey nash lithotrite. the percutaneous rotary lithotrite introduces a new concept to fragmentation and percutaneous removal of gallstones. a fluid vortex is generated, pulling calculi into a high-speed blade that fragments stones to predominantly under 500 microns. the results of treating the first 10 patients with this instrument reveal that large stone burdens as well as small stones (2-3 mm) of any composition can be removed if the gallbladder is of sufficient size to accommodate the six-pronged basket. rotation times of 7-39 minutes were required. nine of 10 procedures were completed; access was lost in one case. one major complication occurred. at repeat oral cholecystography, the gallbladder was visualized after 3-6 weeks in eight of the nine patients. ursodeoxycholic acid was administered from 3 to 12 months to five patients with either residual stones or aggregates. the hospital stay ranged from 48 to 72 hours. all patients (except the patient who underwent surgery) resumed light activity in 3-4 days and strenuous activity and full diet within 3 weeks.
pancreatic ischaemia in experimental acute pancreatitis: mechanism, significance and therapy. much clinical and experimental evidence suggests that pancreatic ischaemia in the early phase of acute pancreatitis is important in the development of pancreatic necrosis. while depletion of intravascular volume has often been assumed to be the main circulatory defect, an additional disturbance of pancreatic microcirculation has been demonstrated experimentally. possible contributory mechanisms include chemical-induced vasoconstriction, direct injury of vessel wall, intravascular coagulation and increased endothelial permeability resulting in pancreatic oedema, haemoconcentration and impaired venous drainage. pancreatic ischaemia as a consequence of these local effects seems to be responsible for the transition of mild pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis. in experimental models the beneficial effect of various drugs and of sympathetic blockade has been ascribed to an improvement in pancreatic perfusion. although effective volume therapy is generally accepted as the mainstay of conservative treatment in acute pancreatitis, the efficacy of different fluid preparations is still controversial, and simple fluid resuscitation has not been shown to prevent the development of parenchymal necrosis. the specific impairment of pancreatic microcirculation cannot be prevented merely by replenishment of intravascular volume with crystalloids, albumin or plasma despite normalization of macrohaemodynamics. in contrast, partial replacement of blood by dextran preparations has been shown to increase pancreatic perfusion by improving blood fluidity. isovolaemic haemodilution in conjunction with conventional fluid therapy may provide a new and effective means of protecting the pancreas from secondary injury due to the early ischaemic phase of acute pancreatitis.
management of mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta after heart-lung transplantation. a 19-year-old woman underwent heart-lung transplantation for obstructive bronchiolitis. eleven days later mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta occurred. emergency cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted via the femoral vessels and the chest was reopened under cardiac massage. perforation of the aorta at the site of insertion of the cardioplegic cannula in the donor aorta was seen. under circulatory arrest the infected area was excised, a pericardial patch plasty was performed, and the region was covered with a muscle flap. postoperatively, candida albicans was found in the excised specimen of the aorta, in drainage fluid, and in the bronchoalveolar lavage. high doses of antimycotics were administered intravenously and for irrigation of the mediastinum, which resulted in an eradication of fungi in all cultures 7 days later. six weeks after reoperation the patient was discharged home, and she remains well 9 months postoperatively.
syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of the resection of a chordoma of the clivus: case report. syringomyelia has been described frequently in association with various abnormalities of the skull base but rarely with tumors of the skull base. syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of surgery of the skull base has not been reported. the authors describe a case of cervical syringomyelia developing after the partial resection of a chordoma and combined conventional and proton beam irradiation. the possible mechanisms causing this abnormality are discussed.
the addition of doxazosin to the treatment regimen of patients with hypertension not adequately controlled by beta-blockers. when doxazosin was given to patients with hypertension not adequately controlled by beta-blockade, blood pressure was normalized in 94% of the 34 patients (blood pressure less than or equal to 140/85 mm hg). this reduction in blood pressure was obtained with doxazosin in combination with metoprolol or oxprenolol at a mean final daily dose of 1.3 mg or pindolol or atenolol at 2.0 mg/day. exercise-induced increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was also lower with combined beta-blocker and doxazosin therapy than with beta-blocker alone. after 12 weeks of treatment, the combination of doxazosin and beta-blocker significantly reduced total serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. all side effects were mild and only one patient was withdrawn from therapy.
the yield of cholesterol screening in an urban black community. background: while the distribution of cholesterol levels have been well studied in the general population, little is known about cholesterol and other cardiovascular disease risk factors in screenings held in an urban black community. this study was designed to determine the yield of cholesterol screening in this community. methods: screening took place in eight community sites. serum total cholesterol was measured using a rapid capillary technique. blood pressure was taken according to national guidelines and the average of two to three measurements were used. standard interviews were used to determine the presence of cardiovascular risk factors by history. results: of the 562 individuals screened, 44.9 percent had cholesterol levels requiring referral for follow-up care. of those with total cholesterol greater than or equal to 6.21 mmol/l, 66.4 percent were previously undetected and more than half also had blood pressure levels greater than or equal to 140/90 mmhg on screening; 45 percent of all participants had blood pressure greater than or equal to 140/90 on screenings. of those with a history of elevated total cholesterol levels, none had levels below 5.17 mmol/l at the time of screening. conclusions: multiple risk factors are highly prevalent in the urban black community during cholesterol screening programs. findings suggest the need for cholesterol programs incorporating blood pressure screening in the urban black community.
reevaluation of manometric criteria for vigorous achalasia. is this a distinct clinical disorder? clinical and manometric data from 97 consecutive patients with idiopathic achalasia were analyzed to see if a distinct subset with vigorous achalasia could be identified. statistical analyses failed to detect a unique group of subjects based on the distribution of contraction wave amplitudes alone. because of this, patients falling above the 95th percentile (n = 4, mean wave amplitude greater than 100 mm hg for each) were compared with those having mean amplitudes above the conventional threshold for the diagnosis of vigorous achalasia (mean amplitude 60-100 mm hg, n = 4), and with the remainder (n = 89, mean amplitude less than 60 mm hg). subjects with mean amplitudes less than 60 mm hg and with mean amplitudes 60-100 mm hg closely resembled each other in all measured clinical features, whereas subjects with mean amplitudes greater than 100 mm hg were all male, were older (67 +/- 4 years vs 47 +/- 2 years; p less than 0.01), and appeared to have somewhat longer duration of symptoms when compared with the remainder (82 +/- 41 vs 44 +/- 10 months; p = 0.4). chest pain and other esophageal symptoms, basal and residual lower sphincter pressures, and response to first treatment did not differ among the three groups. these data indicate that high-fidelity manometry techniques identify a rare subset of achalasia patients with mean contraction amplitudes exceeding 100 mm hg that, although older and possibly with greater duration of symptoms, presents similarly to others with idiopathic achalasia. outcome from conventional treatment is also similar for the "vigorous" and "nonvigorous" patients, making the distinction of questionable value.
dysgerminoma of the ovary: review of 27 cases. twenty-seven patients with pure dysgerminoma were seen at the tata memorial hospital, bombay, between january 1980 and december 1984. of the 10 patients in stage i, 2 patients underwent a unilateral salpingoophorectomy (uso) and were kept under observation without any adjuvant therapy, while the remaining patients received adjuvant treatment following surgery. all of the 6 patients in stage ii and 4 of 7 in stage iii had total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (tahbso) followed by postoperative radiotherapy. one patient presented in stage iv and 3 patients presented with recurrence after previous definitive treatment undertaken at other institutions. the disease free, as well as the overall survival, at 108 months, for the 24 cases primarily treated at this institution, is 81% and 88% respectively, and, for patients in stages i and ii, 100% (kaplan-meier estimation). the need for controlled clinical trials to devise optimal therapy in the early clinical stages and use of chemotherapy for advanced stages of this highly curable entity are stressed.
effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter, regional cerebral blood flow, and brain structure in cats. temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations; however, repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery. the present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings. initially, a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats. pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging, regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography, and cerebral edema and infarction were observed. in the 20-minute occlusion group, no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation. in the 1-hour occlusion group, pial arteries were dilated by 45%, and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values. the extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 +/- 7.5% (se) and infarction was 34.5 +/- 9.5% (se) of the hemisphere. in the second experiment, three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats. in 10 of them, thiopental (40 mg/kg) was used to protect the brain. in the group without barbiturate treatment, pial arteries were dilated by 40% at the end of experiment, regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70% compared with single 20-minute occlusion, cerebral edema was 19.5 +/- 8.1% (se), and infarction was 8.1 +/- 3.7% (se) of the hemisphere. in the treated group, these were only trivial changes. the effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage, and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary.
heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant wilson's disease. wilson's disease may present with severe acute hepatocellular failure. the only effective treatment for fulminant wilson's disease is liver transplantation, which may lead to reversal of the underlying disease. some patients with cirrhosis who are too ill to undergo orthotopic liver transplantation have been treated with heterotopic liver transplantation. however, use of heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant hepatocellular failure has not been successful. this case study involves a patient in whom a heterotopic liver transplant was successfully used for treatment of wilson's disease presenting with fulminant hepatocellular failure.
introduction of nerve growth factor (ngf) receptors into a medulloblastoma cell line results in expression of high- and low-affinity ngf receptors but not ngf-mediated differentiation. expression of the cloned human nerve growth factor receptor (ngfr) cdna in cell lines can generate both high- and low-affinity binding sites. since the inability to respond appropriately to differentiation factors such as ngf may contribute to determining the malignant phenotype of neuroblastomas, we sought to determine whether the same is true of medulloblastomas. to generate a human central nervous system neuronal cell line that would respond to ngf, we infected the medulloblastoma cell line d283 med with a defective retrovirus carrying the cdna coding for the human ngfr. the resultant cells (med-ngfr) expressed abundant low- and high-affinity ngfrs, and ngf treatment induced a rapid transient increase of c-fos mrna in the ngfr-expressing cells but not in the parent line or in cells infected with virus lacking the cdna insert. however, the med-ngfr cells did not internalize the ngfr at high efficiency, nor did they differentiate in response to ngf. three important conclusions emerge from this study: (i) internalization of ngfrs is not necessary for some early rapid transcriptional effects of ngf; (ii) an unknown factor(s) that cooperates with the cloned ngfr in allowing high-affinity ngf binding is found in a primitive central nervous system cell line; and (iii) ngfrs introduced into and expressed by d283 med (i.e., med-ngfr) cells are partially functional but are unable to induce differentiation in these primitive neuron-like tumor cells, implying that high-efficiency receptor-mediated endocytosis of ngf and its receptor may be a necessary step in the cascade of events leading to ngf-mediated differentiation.
association of germ cell tumors and hodgkin's disease. two patients presented with synchronous hodgkin's disease and testicular germ cell neoplasms. both patients are in complete remission following treatment with multidrug chemotherapy and radiation therapy. despite epidemiologic similarities between hodgkin's disease and testicular cancer, only 13 cases of their association in the same patient have been reported in the literature, and in all those instances the tumors occurred metachronously. however, the very rare occurrence of synchronous presentation suggests a possible common pathogenetic factor in our 2 patients.
neurinoma in the cavernous sinus: report of two cases. two cases of trigeminal neurinoma located solely in the cavernous sinus are reported. preoperatively, magnetic resonance imaging provided the accurate localization of the lesions, allowing precise planning of the surgical approach, that is, a subtemporal lateral approach and a pterional superior approach, respectively. the neurinomas inside the cavernous sinus were removed successfully, and the patients developed no new neurological deficits except for anesthesia in the 1st division of the trigeminal nerve. the characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings of trigeminal neurinoma in the cavernous sinus are presented, and the different surgical approaches are discussed.
the cytobrush for evaluating routine cervicovaginal-endocervical smears. while the conventional wooden spatula/cotton-tipped applicator has remained the method of obtaining papanicolaou smears for most clinicians at the university of california at los angeles, the student health service (shs) adopted the zelsmyr cytobrush as its sole method of obtaining cervical samples in late 1986. a study was done to define changes in both the adequacy of sampling and the detection rate for both squamous and glandular epithelial abnormalities with the cytobrush. to accomplish this goal, 1,000 cytobrush and 244 conventionally obtained smears were analyzed prospectively, and 3,864 shs samples obtained in 1986 prior to the change in method were reviewed retrospectively. as compared to cervical samples obtained by conventional methods, the cytobrush smears contained significantly more endocervical cells and had fewer drying artifacts. both methods obtained equivalent squamous samples and had similar final class distributions. no case of endocervical adenocarcinoma carcinoma in situ or invasive adenocarcinoma was detected. shs patients who had initial "no endocervical cells" samples but whose repeat sample did contain endocervical cells retained the same class in more than 75% of cases. this study confirmed that the cytobrush technique produces papanicolaou smears with improved sampling of the squamocolumnar junction but questioned whether that results in an increased detection rate for cervical pathology.
restoration of liver function in gunn rats without immunosuppression using transplanted microencapsulated hepatocytes. microencapsulation of cells within synthetic semipermeable membranes is a novel technique that enables the transplantation of cell cultures without the need for immunosuppression. we have previously shown that transplanted isolated encapsulated hepatocytes can provide sufficient short-term metabolic support to improve the survival of animals with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure. here we have demonstrated the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in providing long-term metabolic liver support in gunn rats. gunn rats have a congenital inability to conjugate bilirubin and thus exhibit lifelong hyperbilirubinemia. we studied the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in restoring this specific liver function. free hepatocytes, isolated from male wistar rats, were microencapsulated with collagen within a trilayered sodium alginate-poly-l-lysine-sodium alginate membrane using techniques developed in our laboratory. a total of 45 gunn rats underwent intraperitoneal transplantation with free hepatocytes (5 x 10(7], isolated encapsulated hepatocytes (5 x 10(7], control (empty) microcapsules or no transplant (untreated controls). serum bilirubin levels were monitored daily for 10 days after transplantation, and subsequent weekly samples were obtained for up to 1 mo. microcapsules were studied by light and electron microscopy 1 mo after transplantation. during the first week after transplantation, the mean maximum reduction in serum bilirubin levels for the isolated encapsulated hepatocytes, free hepatocytes and control microcapsule transplanted groups was 45.7%, 18.6% and 14.3%, respectively. for up to 1 mo thereafter the mean reduction in serum bilirubin levels in these respective groups was 34.8%, 13.5% and 3.3%.
"prokinetic" treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome: a placebo-controlled study of cisapride. the effects of prokinetic treatment with cisapride in patients with constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) were evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. sixty-nine ibs patients were assigned to a 12-week treatment with either 5 mg cisapride or placebo t.i.d.; this dosage could be changed if necessary. the mean weekly number of days on which a stool was passed in the cisapride and placebo group increased to 5.3 and 4.4 (p less than 0.05) during weeks 8-12 of treatment, and the number of days with stools of normal consistency increased to 3.5 and 1.9 (p less than 0.05), respectively. at week 12, the reduction in severity and frequency scores for abdominal pain was significantly greater (p less than or equal to 0.05) in the cisapride group (60 and 61%) than in the placebo group (40 and 32%), as it was for abdominal distension (p less than 0.05). cisapride tended to be better than placebo in diminishing flatulence. in 71% versus 39% of the patients the overall rating for the response to treatment was good or excellent at week 12. cisapride was well tolerated. these results suggest that the drug will be useful for the management of constipation-predominant ibs.
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age. argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains; however, its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial. this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains, spider angiomas, epidermal nevi, and lentigines. the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed. good to excellent results (moderate to complete clearing) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure. hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children, all of whom had undressed wounds; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively.
vascular flow capacity of hindlimb skeletal muscles in spontaneously hypertensive rats. total and regional skeletal muscle flows (radiolabeled microspheres) were determined in isolated maximally vasodilated hindquarters of spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr) and age-matched (11-12 mo) normotensive wistar-kyoto rats (wky) to assess the vascular flow capacity of the skeletal muscle vascular beds. vascular flow capacity was estimated by measuring total hindquarters and regional muscle blood flows (under conditions of maximal vasodilation with papaverine or papaverine plus isoproterenol) over a wide range of perfusion pressures in wky and shr. capillary exchange capacity was estimated by determining the capillary filtration coefficient. isogravimetric capillary pressures and segmental vascular resistances were determined in each hindquarter. isogravimetric flows and capillary pressures were not different between wky and shr. however, total and precapillary vascular resistances were significantly elevated in shr, and postcapillary resistances were not different compared with wky. maximal capillary filtration coefficient values for the shr group averaged 20% lower than wky values, suggesting that hypertension was associated with a reduction in the microvascular surface area available for fluid exchange and, therefore, the capillary exchange capacity. over the perfusion pressures studied, total hindquarters flows averaged 60% lower in shr than in wky. flows to individual skeletal muscles averaged 76% lower in shr than in wky regardless of the muscle fiber type. thus, modifications exist in the hindlimb skeletal muscle vasculature of shr that reduces the capillary exchange capacity and limit the capacity of deliver flow at a given perfusion pressure gradient.
the effect of prolonged hypothermia on cardiac function in a young patient with accidental hypothermia. a 20-year-old man had accidental, prolonged, and severe hypothermia. serial radionuclide ventriculography disclosed reduced myocardial contractility during hypothermia that resolved after warming. the effects of hypothermia on cardiac function are discussed.
efficacy of nimodipine in cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage. our studies showed that in an appropriate dose, nimodipine increased local cerebral blood flow with no corresponding increase in local metabolism. nimodipine treatment given before experimental ischemic insult, resulting from either vascular occlusion or intracranial hemorrhage or after subarachnoid hemorrhage, maintained or improved blood flow and minimized the severity of subsequent brain damage. lack of benefit from nimodipine treatment after the insult may occur because the inexorable progression of events leading to ischemic neuronal damage, once initiated, cannot be arrested. on the other hand, pharmacokinetic factors may be important, and post-treatment efficacy may depend on administration protocols that achieve an adequate concentration in ischemic tissue sufficiently soon after an insult. our findings are compatible with the benefit of nimodipine being due to an improvement in blood flow that reduces the severity of ischemia. however, they do not exclude the possibility that treatment may minimize the accumulation of calcium in damaged cells as a result of "cytoprotective" effects.
recurrence of acoustic neurilemoma as a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm. case report. a 75-year-old man presented with a right cerebellopontine angle tumor 11 months after complete macroscopic resection of a right acoustic neurilemoma. histological examination of the recurrent tumor showed a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm with positive staining for s-100 protein. the patient had no stigmata of von recklinghausen's disease. it is proposed that this recurrence represents progression from a benign to a malignant acoustic nerve-sheath tumor, an event that is extremely rare outside the clinicopathological context of neurofibromatosis.
cerebral atrophy in habitual cocaine abusers: a planimetric ct study. we compared cranial cts of 35 habitual cocaine abusers, 16 self-reported 1st-time users, and 54 headache patients using linear planimetric measures. all patients met the following criteria: age 20 to 40 years, no polydrug abuse (including alcohol), hiv seronegativity, normal albumin level, and no history of any other neurologic disease. the sex ratios and ages were not significantly different in the 3 groups. the planimetric measurements and calculated indices of cerebral atrophy were significantly different in the habitual cocaine abusers compared with the 2 other groups of patients. there were no differences between 1st-time cocaine users and controls. among the habitual cocaine abusers there was a positive correlation between the approximate duration of cocaine abuse and the calculated atrophy indices. the findings suggest that cerebral atrophy develops in chronic cocaine abusers, and the severity correlates with the duration of abuse.
pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis: effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against streptococcus pneumoniae. to study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence, a model of streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats. cirrhosis, with or without ascites, was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride (ccl4). histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that ccl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans. cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls, and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest ld50. more cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls. pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels. this model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host.
effect of microwave and ionizing radiation in patients with recurrent laryngeal carcinoma. this study describes the treatment and survival of 54 patients with gross recurrent laryngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy. twenty-six patients were treated with local ultra-high frequency hyperthermia in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy (hrch). twenty-eight control patients were treated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy (rch). eight patients (33 per cent) in hrch showed a three year survival but no patient in the rch group. at two years 18 patients (75 per cent) in hrch and two (7 per cent) in rch survived.
an epithelial cyst in the cerebellopontine angle. case report. a case of a benign epithelial cyst in the posterior cranial fossa is described. it had the unique histological feature of a double-layered cuboidal epithelial lining. detailed immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies supported an endodermal origin. the differential diagnosis and the histogenesis of epithelial cysts in the central nervous system are discussed.
a randomized controlled trial of allopurinol in coronary bypass surgery. a plethora of experimental evidence indicates that allopurinol reduces the formation of cytotoxic free radicals during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of allopurinol on cardiac performance and early mortality after coronary bypass surgery. allopurinol (n = 89) or placebo (n = 80) was administered to 169 patients before surgery. randomization produced groups evenly matched for surgical risk factors. hospital mortality rate in the placebo group was 14 of 80 (18%) in the allopurinol group 4 of 89 (4%), p = 0.014. cardiac performance, scored by cardiac index and the need for ionotropic or mechanical support, was significantly better in the allopurinol group. more nonfatal complications occurred in the allopurinol group. when either a complication or death is termed an event, the proportion of events was equal in the two groups. no side effects were identified. we now administer allopurinol to all patients who are undergoing bypass surgery unless specifically contraindicated.
correction of subclavian artery stenosis by percutaneous angioplasty. subclavian artery stenosis is an infrequently recognized cause of left-sided chest and arm pain that can mimic the signs and symptoms of angina pectoris. in addition, more proximal subclavian artery stenoses can be associated with cerebrovascular symptoms in the "subclavian steal syndrome." this article reviews the clinical experience in four patients who presented with different manifestations of subclavian artery stenosis and who were all successfully treated by percutaneous angioplasty. their clinical presentation, angiographic findings, and post-angioplasty results are documented. in conclusion, it is felt that nonsurgical correction of critical subclavian artery stenosis, using current angioplasty techniques, is the preferred method of treatment.
endogenous insulin-like growth factor (igf) binding proteins cause igf-1 resistance in cultured fibroblasts from a patient with short stature. the ed50 of insulin-like growth factor (igf)-i-stimulated alpha-aminoisobutyric acid (aib) uptake (mean +/- sd) in cultured fibroblasts from a child with short stature that we have reported (1.40 +/- 0.24 nm), is significantly higher than the ed50 of igf-i-stimulated aib uptake in fibroblasts from 11 normal subjects (0.42 +/- 0.12 nm) and from 127 short children (0.35 +/- 0.11 nm). similarly, the ed50 of igf-i-stimulated thymidine incorporation in fibroblasts from this child is 2.8 times higher than that in fibroblasts from four normal subjects. to minimize potential modulation of igf-i action by endogenous igf binding proteins in these assays, fibroblast responsiveness to [q3,a4,y15,l16]igf-i, an igf-i variant that has a 600-fold reduced affinity for serum igf binding proteins, has been examined. the biological activity of this variant is comparable in the patient's and normal fibroblasts, suggesting that the resistance to igf-i action cannot be attributed to a defective igf-i receptor. to investigate directly the possibility that igf-i sensitivity in the patient's fibroblasts is reduced by endogenous igf binding proteins (igfbp), binding proteins that are secreted into aib assay buffer during a 3-h collection and that are cell-associated at the end of the collection have been analyzed. ligand blot analysis of conditioned aib assay buffer demonstrates that fibroblasts from the patient secrete 1.3-2.2 times more of mr 46,400/42,900, 32,000, and 26,800 binding proteins than normal fibroblasts. the major difference between fibroblasts from the patient and from normal subjects is a striking 10-fold increase in the amount of a cell surface mr 32,000 binding protein in the patient's fibroblasts. the mr 32,000 binding protein is similar in size to igfb-1 and different from igfbp-2 and igfbp-3, but it does not cross-react with an antibody against igfbp-1. we conclude that the resistance to igf-i action in the patient's fibroblasts is caused by an abnormal production and/or cell association of igf binding proteins.
the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck. a 10-year prospective study. in a 10-year prospective study, 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty. within six months of their operations, 148 patients had died. in 322 hips followed up, 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year, only 14 (5.6%) showed acetabular erosion. a group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years (mean, 4 years 10 months) and of these, 95% had no pain or slight pain only. comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar, but that the erosion rate had been halved.
shortcut method to calculate the sample size in trials of screening for chronic disease. one of the first questions arising in the planning of a randomized trial to evaluate mortality reduction by screening concerns the sample size of the trial required to detect an expected mortality reduction in the study group for given significance level alpha, and power 1 - beta. if estimates exist of the underlying average annual incidence rate of the disease ra and the annual mortality rate delta a or survival data for patients in the population under consideration before screening started, then a simple formula for the probability of dying from the disease within t years after entry into the trial can be given for the control group. standard formulas may then be used for sample size calculations in randomized trials, which compare the risk of death from the disease in the control and the study group accrued at t years after entry. a simple correction for loss of follow-up, due to mortality from other causes or, for instance, migration is possible.
sudden death from acute cocaine intoxication in virginia in 1988. a review of medical examiners' autopsy records revealed that in 1988, 33 residents of virginia died of acute cocaine intoxication. the subjects were 19 to 45 years old; most were men, used cocaine intravenously, and used other toxic substances with the lethal dose of cocaine.
help for the hurting elderly. safe use of drugs to relieve pain. pharmacologic management of pain in elderly patients is a common and difficult clinical problem. because of altered drug metabolism and pharmacodynamics in the elderly, the drugs of choice are different than in younger patients and side effects occur more often. however, with judicious use and monitoring for toxicity, oral medications given as part of a multimodality approach can achieve adequate analgesia in most elderly patients.
acute urinary retention in a child with appendiceal abscess: diagnostic dilemma. rarely do children with appendiceal abscess present with acute urinary retention as the only sign or symptom. this presentation may delay diagnosis and definitive therapy, thereby causing additional morbidity and possible mortality. we report the eighth case of acute urinary retention in a child associated with an appendiceal abscess.
primary cysts and tumors of the mediastinum. a retrospective analysis was performed on 230 patients with primary cysts and tumors of the mediastinum seen at our institution from january 1944 to april 1989. we divided these patients into two groups. group 1 was seen before 1970 and group 2 was seen from january 1970 to april 1989. there was a significant increase in the prevalence of malignancy in group 2 (47.2% versus 17.1%; p less than 0.0001) due to an increase in the number of lymphomas (22.6% versus 3.5%; p less than 0.001) and malignant neurogenic tumors (6.8% versus 1.1%; p = 0.0528). there was a significant increase in the number of malignant tumors in the anterior (59.5% versus 30.9%; p = 0.0022) and paravertebral (28.5% versus 2.8%; p = 0.0027) compartments in group 2. more patients with these tumors were symptomatic in group 2 (63.6% versus 5%; p = 0.0422). there was an increase of ancillary diagnostic studies performed to evaluate these tumors (76.0% versus 34.5%; p = 0.0422). logistic regression analysis identified date of presentation (p less than 0.005), symptoms (p less than 0.01), size (p less than 0.005), and the anterior mediastinal compartment (p less than 0.005) as preoperative predictors of malignancy. the surgical approach to these tumors included more median sternotomy (30.1% versus 10.7%; p = 0.0008), anterior mediastinotomy, and cervical mediastinoscopy in group 2 (1.1% versus 17.5%; p = 0.0002). long-term results support surgical resection in benign lesions and an aggressive multimodality approach to malignant lesions.
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men. an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35- to 76-year-old men. the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed. snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews. in 86 cases there was a history of 'habitual' (almost always or always) snoring, and 88 men snored 'often'. the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years. the mean body mass index (bmi) was 26.3 kg m-2. among the obese snorers (n = 82), apnoeas had been observed 'occasionally', 'often', or 'habitually' in 49 cases. death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 (40.4%) cases. cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never (p less than 0.05). 'habitual' snorers died more often while sleeping (p less than 0.05). habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death (p less than 0.01). the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer.
false aneurysm of the internal mammary artery. iatrogenic false aneurysm of a branch of the internal mammary artery after sternal wire closure is a very rare occurrence. we describe a case which appeared in a 62 year old woman operated upon for mitral valve replacement and diagnosed after digital subtraction angiography.
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty. an experimental study in piglets. paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta. the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty. the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min. twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact, whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic. the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings.
use of a guiding catheter for contralateral femoral artery angioplasty. we describe a unique method employing a transseptal sheath as a "guiding catheter" that allows contralateral retrograde femoral artery access to perform balloon angioplasty of proximal superficial femoral artery lesions. this technique simplifies arterial access, provides support for crossing lesions, and allows angiographic visualization of target lesions during the procedure.
neurologic complications of the tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. a case of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia, central nervous system complications, and multiple white matter lesions by magnetic resonance imaging is presented. eosinophilia regardless of its cause should be included within the differential of patients exhibiting periventricular white matter lesions.
medical management of acute traumatic rupture of the aorta. surgical reconstruction is the treatment for acute traumatic aortic rupture and should be accomplished immediately in most patients. in patients in whom concomitant injuries or the development of life-threatening complications preclude safe and successful aortic reconstruction, pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of free aortic rupture may be considered. surgical reconstruction can then be more safely performed under controlled elective circumstances.
improved morphologic characterization of atrial septal aneurysm by transesophageal echocardiography: relation to cerebrovascular events. transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography was performed in 23 consecutive adult patients with an atrial septal aneurysm. in three patients with a cerebrovascular event the diagnosis was established by the transesophageal approach only. interatrial shunting on transthoracic imaging with use of echocardiographic contrast imaging or doppler color mapping, or both, was detected in 7 (41%) of 17 patients. on performing contrast imaging in combination with color flow mapping during transesophageal echocardiography, positive shunting was demonstrated in 15 (83%) of 18 patients. echocardiographic identification of multiple fenestrations (n = 4) and thrombus within the aneurysm (n = 2) could be achieved for the first time by transesophageal ultrasound application. cerebrovascular events occurred in 12 (52%) of 23 patients and were regarded as being definitely thromboembolic in 10 (43%); 8 (67%) of the 12 patients had repeated cerebral events. except for mitral valve prolapse in one patient, no other potential cardiac source of embolism could be identified despite the use of transesophageal echocardiography. a thickening of the aneurysmal membrane greater than or equal to 5 mm was found in 9 (75%) of 12 patients with versus 3 (27%) of 11 patients without a cerebrovascular event (p less than 0.05); this proved to be the only significant difference between the two patient groups. the mechanism of embolization may be both primary thrombus formation within the aneurysm and paradoxic embolization through an interatrial communication as demonstrated by the findings in two patients. it is concluded that atrial septal aneurysm is a cardiac abnormality with thromboembolic potential. in patients with this lesion and a history of an embolic event, long-term anticoagulant therapy is indicated.
a randomized, controlled trial of the use of music during laceration repair. study objectives: to determine whether music significantly reduces the pain and anxiety associated with laceration repair in the emergency department. participants and setting: adult patients presenting to the ed at an urban teaching hospital for laceration repair. exclusion criteria included patients less than 18 years old, having received analgesics, with suspected alcohol or substance intoxication, and in whom laceration repair was complicated by treatment of a more serious medical condition. design and interventions: this was a randomized, controlled trial. after giving informed consent, patients were randomly assigned to receive standard laceration repair without music (control) or standard laceration repair with music. patients assigned to the music group chose an audio tape from 50 available styles and artists. patients received the music through a headset, and they controlled the volume. intradermal lidocaine was used in all patients. data were collected on heart rate, blood pressure, and respirations just before and immediately after wound repair. psychological variables included the state subscale of the spielberger state trait anxiety inventory (stai), a visual analog pain scale rating, and a brief questionnaire. stai and pain scale ratings were analyzed with wilcoxon's rank-sum test with an alpha error of .05. results: thirty-eight patients (19 per group) completed the protocol. pain scores were significantly (p less than .05) lower in the music group (mean, 2.09) than in controls (mean, 3.31). anxiety after the procedure was reduced in both groups, but stai reduction scores were not significantly different between groups (music, 17.7; control, 18.5). seventeen of 19 patients (89%) rated music "very beneficial," and 100% said they would use music again. conclusion: music provides a safe, inexpensive, and effective adjunct for the management of pain in the ed but does not significantly affect anxiety.
ototoxicity of cis-platinum and its relationship to eye colour. the following hypothesis is presented: that the susceptibility of an individual patient to hearing loss as a result of cis-platinum administration can be predicted on the basis of eye colour. the rationale is that the melanin content of the inner ears is related to that of the eyes; dark eyes contain more melanin than light-coloured eyes; and melanin causes the accumulation of the ototoxic drug within the inner ear. hence those with dark eyes will suffer greater damage to the hearing than those with pale eyes. an investigation that confirmed this hypothesis is reported. in addition to cochlear damage there is a significant likelihood of damage to the auditory nerve as a result of the treatment.
coronary dynamics and mental arithmetic stress in humans. incidence and mechanisms of psychological stress-induced myocardial ischemia were investigated in a population of 63 patients using mental arithmetic. fifty subjects (group 1) were selected as a consecutive population of ischemic patients with electrocardiographic documentation of ischemia at rest, on effort, or both. mental arithmetic induced increases in heart rate, blood pressure, and rate-pressure product in all patients. transient ischemic electrocardiographic changes occurred in 22 patients (44%; positive mental arithmetic), the majority of whom had both resting and exercise angina. in negative mental arithmetic tests, peak rate-pressure product was always lower than that achieved during exercise (mean +/- sd, 11.9 +/- 3 versus 21.3 +/- 5, p less than 0.01). of the 22 patients with positive mental arithmetic tests, ischemia occurred in only six, at a rate-pressure product equal to or more than the one achieved during exercise (21.1 +/- 5 versus 19.4 +/- 4, p less than 0.01), suggesting an increase in myocardial o2 demand exceeding the limited increase in flow; in the remaining 16 patients, rate-pressure product values were significantly lower (14.8 +/- 3 versus 22.7 +/- 6, p less than 0.01), suggesting a primary reduction in coronary blood flow that is probably related to an increase in coronary tone. to assess the possible site of such a vasoconstriction, the effect of mental arithmetic on large coronary artery diameter was tested in 13 additional unselected patients (group 2) undergoing coronary angiography for a chest pain syndrome.
a pilot study of suramin in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. suramin sodium is an aromatic polysulfonated compound that was originally introduced as an antiparasitic agent in the 1920s. recently, in view of its ability to bind and disrupt the function of multiple growth factors and cellular enzyme systems, the authors have been evaluating the role of suramin as an antitumor agent. in this study, 12 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received parenteral suramin by continuous infusion to a peak plasma suramin level greater than 200 micrograms/ml. no objective radiographic responses were observed, although greater than 90% necrosis of multiple tumor sites was documented at autopsy in one patient and normalization of tumor-related hypercalcemia occurred in another patient. two patients had stable disease of 10 and 28 weeks' duration, respectively. significant toxicities included hypotension related to sepsis and resulting in renal insufficiency (one patient), development of liver function abnormalities (one patient) marked thrombocytopenia (one patient), prothrombin time prolongation (all patients), vortex keratopathy (two patients), and grade 1 sensory neuropathy (two patients). on the basis of the current results, suramin does not appear to be an active single agent against metastatic renal cell carcinoma when administered by this dosing schedule.
prediagnostic serum levels of carotenoids and vitamin e as related to subsequent cancer in washington county, maryland. in 1974 and 1975, serum specimens were collected from 25,802 volunteers in washington county, maryland. the serum was kept frozen at -73 degrees c until the time of assay. prediagnostic samples from 436 cancer cases and 765 matched control subjects have been assayed. nine sites have been studied: colon, rectum, pancreas, lung, melanoma, basal cell of skin, breast, prostate, and bladder. serum beta-carotene levels showed a strong protective association with lung cancer, suggestive protective associations with melanoma and bladder cancer, and a suggestive but nonprotective association with rectal cancer. serum vitamin e levels had a protective association with lung cancer; none of the other sites showed impressive associations. low levels of serum lycopene were strongly associated with pancreatic cancer and less strongly associated with cancer of the bladder and rectum.
an implantable neurocybernetic prosthesis system. the neurocybernetic prosthesis (cyberonics, inc.) is an implantable, multiprogrammable pulse generator that delivers constant current electrical signals to the vagus nerve for the purpose of reducing the frequency and/or severity of epileptic seizures. the device is implanted in a subcutaneous chest pocket just below the clavicle, similar to cardiac pacemaker placement. the stimulation signal is transmitted from the prosthesis to the vagus nerve through a stimulation lead. the prosthesis can be programmed using any ibm-compatible personal computer with programming software and a programming wand. the electrodes used in the first group of patients were found to break at an unacceptable rate. design modifications appear to have resolved this problem.
the transoral approach for the management of intradural lesions at the craniovertebral junction: review of 7 cases. the main difficulty in dealing with intradural lesions located ventrally in the region of the craniovertebral junction (cvj) is related to their relative inaccessibility. posterolateral approaches involve some manipulation of the brain stem and provide limited access because of the necessity of working between the cranial nerves. even then, the view of the ventral midline and across is limited. the transoral approach, which has been widely used for the management of extradural lesions in this area, is also useful for the treatment of intradural lesions. it provides an unimpeded although somewhat restricted, view of the ventral aspect of the cvj without the need for brain retraction. the cranial nerves and vertebral arteries are not interposed between the surgeon and the lesion. the risks of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and infection are greatly diminished by the use of fibrin adhesive and prolonged diversion of the cerebrospinal fluid. the use of this approach, together with its technical difficulties and results, in the management of seven purely intradural lesions located ventrally at the cvj, is discussed.
when is a prognostic factor useful? a guide for the perplexed. traditionally, a number of variables have been used to predict outcome in patients with early-stage breast cancer. these tests are simple to perform and relatively inexpensive. recently, a number of new factors, eg, tumor proliferative index, nuclear dna content, and amplification or overexpression of growth-promoting genes or oncogenes have been identified as potential predictors of outcome in patients with breast cancer. there is now increasing pressure to introduce such tests into routine clinical practice. how does a clinical practitioner identify which test, or group of tests, best predicts adverse outcome and whether any more clinically useful information is provided than with the use of more traditional factors alone? the aim of a prognostic test in breast cancer is to predict which patients are destined to develop a recurrence of cancer and those who are not. the prognostic usefulness of a test can be expressed in terms of relative risk (rr), which is the ratio of the risk of breast cancer recurrence in patients who test positive to the risk in those who test negative. methodologic guidelines that should be satisfied by a study evaluating the predictive ability of a test include the following: (1) was an inception cohort assembled? (2) was the referral pattern described? (3) were laboratory and clinical outcomes assessed in a blinded fashion? (4) was complete follow-up achieved? (5) was adjustment for extraneous prognostic factors carried out? (6) were appropriate statistical methods used? an approach is suggested to help the clinician choose the test, or combination of tests, likely to discriminate between "high-" and "low-risk" patients in his/her own practice. the decision regarding what particular threshold value (risk) defined by a prognostic test (or series of tests) warrants adjuvant therapy for an individual patient is a complex one but should be based on a clear presentation of the risks and benefits to the patient.
voltage criteria of left ventricular hypertrophy in sudden and nonsudden coronary artery disease mortality: the italian section of the seven countries study. it is unclear whether sudden or nonsudden death can be predicted independently from other risk factors for coronary artery disease (cad). therefore, this investigation was undertaken to measure 12-lead qrs voltage sum, a recently proposed (am j cardiol 1985;55:485-494) index of left ventricular (lv) hypertrophy, and its ability to predict either subsequent sudden (less than 2 hours) or nonsudden cad death during 20 to 23 years of follow-up in 1,588 middle aged men (40 to 61 years old) from 2 cohorts of the italian section of the seven countries study who were free of demonstrable cad (at entry examination in 1962). the sokolow-lyon and the modified sokolow-lyon indexes, 2 standard electrocardiographic methods to detect lv hypertrophy were also measured and compared. during follow-up, 67 patients died suddenly and 87 died a nonsudden cad death. in the cox proportional-hazards model, age, mean blood pressure, heart rate, body mass index, cholesterol, physical activity, smoking habit, st-t alterations (minnesota codes 4.1 to 4.3 together with 5.1 to 5.3) and the 3 electrocardiographic indexes, all measured at the time of enrollment into the study, were included. the 12-lead qrs voltage sum retained significant and independent relation to sudden death (t = 2.00); sokolow-lyon index entered the cox solution for nonsudden cad death but the association was inverse (t = -2.10). st-t alterations were significantly associated only with nonsudden cad death (t = 2.19). thus, in addition to several known risk factors, measurement of 12-lead qrs voltage sum in middle-aged men without clinical evidence of heart disease may help identify subjects at an increased risk of sudden death; nonsudden cad death is predicted by sokolow-lyon index and by st-t alterations. the usefulness of these indexes needs to be tested in different populations.
left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis: an unusual presentation of histoplasmosis. a case of histoplasmosis seen as left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a 49-year-old man is described. the patient had roentgenographic findings of a solitary, noncalcified left upper lobe mass and mediastinal adenopathy. tissue diagnosis of histoplasmosis was obtained using a thoracotomy, allowing institution of appropriate treatment.
interferon activation of latent natural killer cells and alteration in kinetics of target cell lysis: clinical implications for oral precancerous lesions. reduced natural killer cell activity was observed in patients with oral leukoplakia and submucous fibrosis compared with normal control subjects. however, the number of target binding lymphocytes was found to be normal in these precancers. treatment of effector cells with interferon-alpha resulted in highly elevated active killer cell activity, although no change was observed in target binding lymphocyte counts. this finding could imply that precytotoxic cells that are activated by interferon exist in peripheral blood or that direct recruitment of a new cell population takes place. in addition, altered target lysis kinetics was observed, with interferon-activated killer cells demonstrating a tremendous lytic activation that is completed so quickly that a statistical kinetic analysis could not be accurately done. because natural killer cell activity is an important effector system in immunosurveillance against tumors, its modulation with interferon may be an exciting clinical possibility in the control of malignant transformation or oral precancers.
benign thyroid hyperplasia presenting as bilateral vocal cord paralysis. complete remission following surgery. a 52-year-old woman developed respiratory arrest on two separate occasions that required mechanical ventilation. fiberoptic bronchoscopy demonstrated bilateral vocal cord paralysis, and a ct scan of the neck demonstrated a right neck mass. on surgical exploration, the mass was found extending from the thyroid gland and was identified as benign thyroid tissue. thyroid hyperplasia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of bilateral vocal cord paralysis.
diagnosing staphylococcus aureus endocarditis by detecting antibodies against s. aureus capsular polysaccharide types 5 and 8. consecutive serum samples from patients with staphylococcus aureus endocarditis or septicemia or non-s. aureus endocarditis and febrile nonsepticemic controls were tested for antibodies against s. aureus capsular polysaccharide (cp) types 5 and 8 by elisa. the upper normal antibody levels were defined as the upper 99.5% confidence limits of the values from the febrile controls. all available patient isolates were tested for the presence of cp type 5 or 8 (85% of the isolates expressed either serotype), and all five patients with s. aureus endocarditis had positive antibody levels against the corresponding serotype within the first 10 days of infection. three other endocarditis patients lacked isolates for cp testing but two of these were positive. positive antibody levels were found in 0 of 28 septicemia patients, in 1 of 12 non-s. aureus endocarditis patients, and in 3 of 37 febrile controls. thus, testing for anti-cp 5 or 8 antibodies, especially together with cp serotyping of the patient's isolate, seems to provide important information in the differential diagnosis of endocarditis in patients with s. aureus septicemia.
the ver as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine. abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent, for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined. as in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence. by recording the fast wave activity (beta rhythmn) in the visual evoked response (ver) to red and white flash, the pattern stimulation, 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls, outside the attack phase. comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed, from the ver findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity, that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine. we found that both clinically and electrophysiologically, abdominal migraine changes with age; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks, and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the ver.
acute aortic valvular incompetence following blunt thoracic deceleration injury: case report. blunt trauma leading to aortic valvular incompetence is rarely encountered, with 27 cases reported to date. all cusps and commissures are involved to a similar degree. treatment includes either reattachment of cusps to the annulus (80% recurrence of incompetence) or valvular replacement (no recurrence). valve replacement is the treatment of choice for these patients.
levels of disability among u.s. adults with arthritis. this article studies the excess levels of disability experienced by persons with arthritis, compared to persons without the disease. the data set is the supplement on aging (1984 national health interview survey); it has information for a national probability sample of community-dwelling persons ages 55 + (n = 16,148). (1) arthritis people have more difficulty in physical functions, personal care, and household care than do nonarthritis persons. the excess disability is greatest for physical functions (walking, reaching, stooping, etc.). disabled arthritis people have especially high degrees of difficulty in physical activities that require endurance and strength. (2) various models are tested for walking, grasping, shopping, and light housework to show how comorbidity propels disability for arthritis people and to show arthritis' own contribution to disability in the presence of other chronic conditions. difficulties escalate for arthritis people when they have other concurrent conditions. these models affirm that arthritis has a pronounced effect on physical dysfunctions, but these are not readily translated into personal and household care problems. apparently, arthritis people often make successful accommodations so their roles and daily activities are not seriously affected by the disease.
critical ischemia times and survival patterns of experimental pig flaps. previous work on critical ischemia time suggested (1) a greater susceptibility of myocutaneous flaps over skin flaps to the ischemia reperfusion injury and (2) that duration of ischemia may affect the survival area of a flap. using a pig model, 55 animals were operated on and the critical ischemia times and survival patterns of the buttock skin (n = 85) and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous (n = 88) island flaps were determined after being submitted to 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 hours of normothermic ischemia. the average critical ischemia times (cit50) were determined to be 9 and 10 hours for the buttock skin and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps, respectively. percentage of total area surviving (%tas) in those flaps which did survive was adversely affected by increases in the ischemic interval in both flap models. a statistically significant decrease in percentage of total area surviving was found after 6 and 8 hours of ischemia for the buttock skin and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps, respectively.
benign and malignant nodules in cirrhotic livers: distinction based on blood supply. the blood supplies of nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis were analyzed in vivo with various imaging modalities. the portal blood supply was evaluated with computed tomography (ct) during arterial portography (ctap); the arterial blood supply was evaluated with hepatic angiography, ct angiography, ct following intraarterial injection of iodized oil, or ultrasound following intraarterial injection of carbon dioxide microbubbles. a total of 84 surgically confirmed hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs) (less than or equal to 3 cm) and 25 areas of adenomatous hyperplasia (ah) were included in the study. at ctap, a portal blood supply was seen in 96% of cases of ah and only 6% of hccs (chi 2, p less than .005). in contrast, an arterial supply greater than that of the surrounding liver was verified in 94% of the hccs and only 4% of the cases of ah (chi 2, p less than .005). the blood supply of areas of ah with atypical hepatocytes and the blood supply of well-differentiated hccs (edmondson grade 1) tended to be intermediate between that of ah without atypia and that of hcc that was edmondson and steiner grade 2 or greater. evaluation of the blood supply of the nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis is considered to be useful in the differential diagnosis and treatment of early-stage hcc.
percutaneous transperineal prostate cryosurgery using transrectal ultrasound guidance: animal model. cryosurgery has previously been used successfully to treat prostatic carcinoma. inability to monitor the freezing led to local complications that limited the use of this modality. recent studies have shown that monitoring of the freezing process can be accomplished using real-time ultrasound. in this study, transrectal ultrasound guidance was used to guide a cryoprobe percutaneously, using a transperineal approach, into the prostate. the extent of freezing was then monitored using ultrasound, taking care not to freeze the urethra or the rectum. six dogs had the procedure without any complications. this study demonstrates the feasibility of a noninvasive treatment for prostatic carcinoma.
cor triatriatum: clinical presentation and surgical results in 12 patients. twelve patients with cor triatriatum have been seen at our institution since 1979. the clinical presentation, diagnostic evaluation, and surgical results are outlined in this retrospective review. operation is the treatment of choice for this rare congenital cardiac defect. one patient died 1 day before scheduled operation, and 2 patients died postoperatively, yielding a surgical mortality rate of 17% and an overall mortality rate of 25%. resection of the obstructing atrial membrane was performed using hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass in all cases. left atriotomy was performed in 6 patients, and right atriotomy was performed in 7. the two postoperative deaths occurred in patients who had serious associated cardiac defects. associated anomalies include atrial septal defect, persistent left superior vena cava, and partial anomalous pulmonary venous return. the postoperative course has been excellent in all 9 surviving patients; all remain asymptomatic. cor triatriatum is amenable to surgical repair with excellent results when diagnosed early and when not complicated by other severe cardiac anomalies.
ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors are characterized by trisomy 12. eleven ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors including 1 thecoma, 2 fibromas, 6 fibrothecomas, and 2 granulosa cell tumors, were karyotyped after direct harvest and/or short-term tissue culture. bilateral fibrothecomas from one patient appeared to lack cytogenetic aberrations: the remaining nine tumors were characterized by trisomy for chromosome 12. cytogenetic aberrations in the two granulosa cell tumors were much less complex than those described previously in undifferentiated carcinomas; accordingly cytogenetic analyses might be useful in distinguishing these categories. the consistent occurrence of trisomy 12 in different varieties of granulosa-stromal cell tumors suggests a common mechanism of oncogenesis within this diverse group of neoplasms. that mechanism probably involves promotion of low-grade, orderly cell proliferation.
annular pancreas as a cause of extrahepatic biliary obstruction. annular pancreas is a rare congenital abnormality that is increasingly diagnosed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) in the adult. in this population, it can present with duodenal or gastric ulceration, duodenal obstruction, pancreatitis, and, rarely, with associated congenital abnormalities. although it has been suggested that biliary obstruction may result from associated pancreatitis, such cases have not been reported; primary extrahepatic biliary obstruction from a constricting annulus also has not been reported. we report such a case, and describe resolution of symptoms and a return to normal biochemical tests in a patient. the literature and embryology of annular pancreas are reviewed. we suggest that this entity be added to the differential diagnosis of extrahepatic biliary obstruction.
lumbar puncture frequency and cerebrospinal fluid analysis in the neonate. a prospective study was performed to assess the frequency and diagnostic utility of lumbar punctures in neonates both during their first week of life and thereafter. during the two 6-month periods from january 1, 1985 to june 30, 1985, and february 1, 1986 to july 31, 1986, 712 neonates underwent 728 lumbar punctures during their first week of life primarily as part of the evaluation for suspected infection, either congenital or postnatal. there were eight patients with positive spinal fluid cultures in the first week of life, but only one patient simultaneously had a positive blood culture and a clinical course consistent with meningitis. in contrast, a considerably higher yield, approximating five times that of the first week of life, was obtained in patients undergoing a lumbar puncture after the first week of life.
experiential phenomena of temporal lobe epilepsy. facts and hypotheses. experiential phenomena that occur in temporal lobe seizures and can be reproduced by electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures typically encompass perceptual, mnemonic and affective features, either in combination or in isolation, which commonly relate to the patient's individual past experience. these phenomena raise interesting questions concerning brain mechanisms involved in human psychophysiology. the anatomical substrates for the evocation of these phenomena are widely distributed within the temporal lobe and include temporal isocortex and limbic structures (amygdala, hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus). arguments are presented which indicate that experiential phenomena are positive expressions of temporal lobe and limbic function and do not result from its ictal paralysis. recent concepts of parallel distributed processing (rumelhart and mcclelland, 1986) and the importance of parallel distributed cortical networks for higher cognitive functions (goldman-rakic, 1988a, b) provide a theoretical framework on which a hypothesis explaining experiential phenomena can be based. in conformity with these concepts the hypothesis assumes that temporal lobe epileptic discharge or electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures can induce the elaboration of patterns of excitation and inhibition in widely distributed neuronal networks, some of which are capable of forming a specific matrix representing the substrate of a given experience. neuronal networks engaged in parallel distributed processing (1) have the capacity to recreate the totality of a given experience when only a fragment of the network is activated, and (2) they tolerate a great deal of degradation by random inactivation of its components or by interference through random noise without serious loss of information content. these features are compatible with the assumption that localized epileptic neuronal discharge or electrical stimulation involving some temporal lobe structures could create a matrix representing features of individual experience of the kind activated in the course of temporal lobe seizures. such an experience could, up to a certain limit, resist the degrading influence of mounting noise which inevitably must attend seizure discharge.
relation of left ventricular mass and geometry to morbidity and mortality in uncomplicated essential hypertension. objective: to assess the prognostic significance of left ventricular mass and geometry in initially healthy persons with essential hypertension. design: an observational study of a prospectively identified cohort. setting: university medical center. patients: two hundred and eighty patients with essential hypertension and no pre-existing cardiac disease were evaluated using echocardiography between 1976 and 1981. two hundred and fifty-three subjects or their family members (90%) were contacted for a follow-up interview an average of 10.2 years after the initial echocardiogram was obtained; the survival status of 27 patients lost to follow-up was ascertained using national death index data. measurements and main results: left ventricular mass exceeded 125 g/m2 in 69 of 253 patients (27%). cardiovascular events occurred in a higher proportion of patients with than without left ventricular hypertrophy (26% compared with 12%; p = 0.006). patients with increased ventricular mass were also at higher risk for cardiovascular death (14% compared with 0.5%; p less than 0.001) and all-cause mortality (16% compared with 2%; p = 0.001). electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy did not predict risk. patients with normal left ventricular geometry had the fewest adverse outcomes (no cardiac deaths; morbid events in 11%), and those with concentric hypertrophy had the most (death in 21%; morbid events in 31%). in a multivariate analysis, only age and left ventricular mass--but not gender, blood pressure, or serum cholesterol level--independently predicted all three outcome measures. conclusions: echocardiographically determined left ventricular mass and geometry stratify risk in patients with essential hypertension independently of and more strongly than blood pressure or other potentially reversible risk factors and may help to stratify the need for intensive treatment.
acute subdural hematoma: morbidity, mortality, and operative timing. traumatic acute subdural hematoma remains one of the most lethal of all head injuries. since 1981, it has been strongly held that the critical factor in overall outcome from acute subdural hematoma is timing of operative intervention for clot removal; those operated on within 4 hours of injury may have mortality rates as low as 30% with functional survival rates as high as 65%. data were reviewed for 1150 severely head-injured patients (glasgow coma scale (gcs) scores 3 to 7) treated at a level 1 trauma center between 1982 and 1987; 101 of these patients had acute subdural hematoma. standard treatment protocol included aggressive prehospital resuscitation measures, rapid operative intervention, and aggressive postoperative control of intracranial pressure (icp). the overall mortality rate was 66%, and 19% had functional recovery. the following variables statistically correlated (p less than 0.05) with outcome; motorcycle accident as a mechanism of injury, age over 65 years, admission gcs score of 3 or 4, and postoperative icp greater than 45 mm hg. the time from injury to operative evacuation of the acute subdural hematoma in regard to outcome morbidity and mortality was not statistically significant even when examined at hourly intervals although there were trends indicating that earlier surgery improved outcome. the findings of this study support the pathophysiological evidence that, in acute subdural hematoma, the extent of primary underlying brain injury is more important than the subdural clot itself in dictating outcome; therefore, the ability to control icp is more critical to outcome than the absolute timing of subdural blood removal.
persistent lower respiratory tract inflammation associated with interstitial lung disease in patients with tropical pulmonary eosinophilia following conventional treatment with diethylcarbamazine. tropical pulmonary eosinophilia (tpe) presents as an acute syndrome with dyspnea, fluffy infiltrates, and rounded opacities on the chest radiograph, reduced lung function, marked eosinophilia in the blood and lower respiratory tract, and high titers of specific ige and igg antifilarial antibodies. the standard therapy for tpe is a 3-wk course of diethylcarbamazine (dec) following which there is almost always a marked improvement in all parameters. however, clinical observations suggest that the disease can persist despite dec therapy and lead to chronic dyspnea with restrictive lung impairment. to evaluate the concept that dec therapy is not completely "curative" for tpe, but rather leaves most individuals with a mild, chronic form of tpe defined by persistent inflammation of the lower respiratory tract, we evaluated 23 individuals an average of 12 +/- 2 months following a standard 3-wk course of diethylcarbamazine for acute tpe. in the majority there were mild, persistent symptoms referrable to the lung, chest x-ray abnormalities, blood eosinophilia, and elevated serum ige and filarial specific igg. on the average, lung function was consistent with the presence of chronic, mild interstitial lung disease. when the inflammatory cells from the lower respiratory tract were examined, there was a persistent eosinophilic alveolitis (tpe/post-dec 1769 +/- 376 eosinophils/microliters epithelial lining fluid; normal subjects 256 +/- 38, p less than 0.02). evaluation of the lower respiratory tract inflammatory cells recovered from the tpe/post-dec-treated individuals demonstrated spontaneous release of exaggerated amounts of o2-. and h2o2 compared to normal subjects (p less than 0.05, both comparisons).
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas. i. cytogenetic analysis and mechanism of origin. one hundred and two benign, mature ovarian teratomas and two immature, malignant teratomas were karyotyped and scored for centromeric heteromorphisms as part of an ongoing project to determine the chromosomal karyotype and the genetic origin of ovarian teratomas and to assess their utility for gene-centromere mapping. karyotypic analysis of the benign cases revealed 95 46,xx teratomas and 7 chromosomally abnormal teratomas (47,xxx, 47,xx,+8 [two cases], 47,xx,+15, 48,xx,+7,+12 91,xxxx,-13 [mosaic], 47,xx,-15,+21,+mar). our study reports on the first cases of tetraploidy and structural rearrangement in benign ovarian teratomas. the two immature cases had modal chromosome numbers of 78 and 49. centromeric heteromorphisms that were heterozygous in the host were homozygous in 65.2% (n = 58) of the benign teratomas and heterozygous in the remaining 34.8% (n = 31). chromosome 13 heteromorphisms were the most informative, with 72.7% heterozygosity in hosts. the cytogenetic data indicate that 65% of teratomas are derived from a single germ cell after meiosis i and failure of meiosis ii (type ii) or endoreduplication of a mature ovum (type iii); 35% arise by failure of meiosis i (type i) or mitotic division of premeiotic germ cells (type iv).
transplant coronary artery disease: histopathologic correlations with angiographic morphology. accelerated coronary artery disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among cardiac transplant recipients. ten patients who died or underwent retransplantation within 2 months of coronary angiography had direct correlation of angiographic (normal discrete lesions, diffuse concentric narrowing) with histologic appearance of coronary arteries. of the 26 angiographically normal segments, 73% showed mild to moderate fibrous intimal thickening by light microscopy. the remainder had intermediate lesions or atheromatous plaques. discrete stenoses usually corresponded to lipid-rich intermediate or atheromatous disease. in contrast, angiographically diffuse, concentrically narrowed lesions usually were areas of severe fibrous intimal thickening. fresh or organizing thrombus was most often associated with discrete lesions and accounted for all complete occlusions. histologic and angiographic comparisons of the degree of luminal narrowing showed generally good correlation for high grade stenoses. lesions graded as having less than 25% diameter narrowing were often underestimated angiographically as compared with histologic determinations. transplant coronary artery disease has a heterogeneous histologic and angiographic appearance, with angiographic underestimation of disease in some patients.
serial ca 125 levels during chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of serial ca 125 in monitoring disease status during chemotherapy in women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer. ca 125 was measured in 21 women receiving cisplatin, etoposide, and adriamycin for a total of 275 courses of chemotherapy (median eight). eight of ten patients had elevated pre-therapy ca 125 levels (median 233 u/ml). ca 125 became and/or remained negative in all 20 women with responding or stable disease and was elevated in all nine patients who relapsed. the median level at the time of relapse was 56 u/ml. levels were elevated before clinical relapse in five of nine patients (56%). serial ca 125 may aid in the management of women receiving chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer.
femoral saphenous vein bypass in a newborn. this is believed to be the youngest patient to undergo a saphenous vein bypass for iatrogenic trauma of the right superficial femoral artery. the infant had emergency right heart catheterisation and rashkind septostomy for severe desaturation due to transposition of the great arteries. during the exposure of the saphenous vein, the superficial femoral artery was accidentally severed at it's origin. an attempt to restore the circulation by end-to-end anastomosis failed and resulted in persistent limb ischemia for over 4 hours. the baby was reoperated upon, the damaged part of the superficial femoral artery was resected and a saphenous vein graft interposed between the common and the distal superficial femoral artery.
selective pulmonary vasodilation with atp-mgcl2 during pulmonary hypertension in lambs. we investigated the effects of infusions of atp-mgcl2 on the circulation in 11 spontaneously breathing newborn lambs during pulmonary hypertension induced either by the infusion of u-46619, a thromboxane a2 mimetic, or by hypoxia. during pulmonary hypertension induced by u-46619, atp-mgcl2 (0.01-1.0 mg.kg-1.min-1) caused a significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure (12.4-40.7%, p less than 0.05), while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at the highest doses (p less than 0.05). left atrial infusions of atp-mgcl2 caused systemic hypotension without decreasing pulmonary arterial pressure. during hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension, atp-mgcl2 caused a similar significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure (12.0-41.1%, p less than 0.05), while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at high doses (p less than 0.05). regression analysis showed selectivity of the vasodilating effects of atp-mgcl2 for the pulmonary circulation during pulmonary hypertension induced either by u-46619 or hypoxia. atp-mgcl2 is a potent vasodilator with a rapid metabolism that allows for selective vasodilation of the vascular bed first encountered (pulmonary or systemic). we conclude that infusions of atp-mgcl2 may be clinically useful in the treatment of children with pulmonary hypertension.
absorption and motility of the bypassed human ileum. the authors assessed absorption and motility of the human ileum after a prolonged period of disuse. in eight patients with ulcerative colitis, a manometric-catheter assembly was placed via the ileostomy into the unused portion of distal ileum two months after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and temporary diverting loop ileostomy. the distal ileum was perfused at 5 ml/min with an isosmotic solution of either sodium chloride or ileal chyme diluted with sodium chloride for three hours before and three hours after a meal on two consecutive days. absorption was measured, single and clustered pressure waves were identified and quantitated with the aid of a computer program, and a motility index was calculated. mean absorption +/- s.e.m. of both perfusates was poor on day 1 (-10 +/- 2 ml/25 cm x 30 min), and the meal induced no ileal motor response. by day 2, however, absorption of both perfusates was much improved (-1 +/- 2 ml/25 cm x 30 min; p less than 0.05), and the number of discrete clustered contractions and the motility index now clearly increased after the meal (2.6 +/- 0.6 vs. 7.2 +/- 1.0 clustered waves/hr; 7.5 +/- 0.5 vs. 9.7 +/- 0.2 motility units/30 min; p less than 0.05). the conclusion was that absorption and motility of the human ileum were impaired after two months of disuse, but that ileal absorption and motility improved one day after the introduction of isosmotic ileal perfusates.
phase i study of interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2a as outpatient therapy for patients with advanced malignancy. twenty-six patients were treated in this phase i study with the combination of interleukin-2 (il2) administered as a continuous infusion and interferon alfa-2a (ifn alpha-2a) administered intramuscularly to patients in an outpatient setting. the maximum-tolerated dose of both agents given as outpatient therapy was 2 x 10(6) u/m2 days 1 to 5 of il2 and 9 x 10(6) u/m2 days 1, 3, and 5 of ifn alpha-2a for 4 consecutive weeks. a 2- to 4-week rest period was permitted after each 4 weeks of treatment. fatigue was the treatment-limiting toxicity, and serious clinical or laboratory abnormalities occurred infrequently during this study. patients with colon cancer metastatic to the liver tolerated treatment worse than patients with other tumors. twelve of the 15 patients with renal cell cancer were assessable for response determinations. of these 12 patients, three exhibited complete tumor regression, three have had partial objective regression, and three patients experienced stabilization of rapidly progressive disease. this therapy appears to be well tolerated in an outpatient treatment setting and shows significant activity against advanced renal cell cancer.
increased erythrocyte sodium-lithium countertransport activity in essential hypertension is due to an increased affinity for extracellular sodium. 1. sodium-lithium countertransport activity in a standard assay, its sodium affinity constant and maximum velocity were measured in erythrocytes from normal subjects and from essential hypertensive patients with and without a family history of hypertension. 2. in normal subjects the sodium concentration used in the standard assay was similar to the sodium affinity constant so that the activity measured in this assay was less than the maximum velocity. 3. in patients with essential hypertension and a positive family history, 33% had a sodium-lithium countertransport activity greater than the upper limit of the normal control range (0.4 mmol of li+ h-1 l-1 of cells). 4. the reason for the raised sodium-lithium countertransport activity was an increased sodium affinity (lower sodium affinity constant) at the outside ion-binding site. 5. of the patients with essential hypertension and a positive family history but sodium-lithium countertransport activity within the normal range in the standard assay, 30% also had a low sodium affinity constant. 6. a low sodium affinity constant at the outside site of the sodium-lithium countertransporter may be a more specific indicator for a group of patients with inherited hypertension than the standard sodium-lithium countertransport activity assay.
subscapular elastofibroma in a young pitcher. a case report. subscapular elastofibromas and scapulothoracic bursitis can cause symptomatic masses in baseball pitchers. both processes appear to represent reactive soft tissue responses to repetitive stress at the inferior border of the scapula. it is assumed that most masses in the subscapular area represent scapulothoracic bursitis rather than an elastofibroma. however, it is possible that some of the masses treated conservatively as scapulothoracic bursitis may be elastofibromas. a study is currently under way to evaluate the incidence of subscapular masses in college and professional pitchers in the united states. a follow-up report is anticipated when the study has been completed. the author requests information concerning any confirmed cases of elastofibroma in baseball pitchers.
radical prostatectomy after definitive radiation therapy for prostate cancer. radical prostatectomy was performed in 14 patients following local failure of radiation therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate. ten patients were treated with external beam and 4 with interstitial radiation. the interval from beginning radiation therapy to biopsy-proved residual or recurrent disease was twenty-four to one hundred fourteen months (mean 61 months). ten patients had significant anterior and lateral fibrosis. five patients had loss of tissue planes between the prostate and rectum, however, no rectal injuries occurred. estimated blood loss was 300-8,000 cc (median 1,000 cc). operative time was one hundred ten to three hundred seventy-five minutes (median 185 minutes). significant late complications are impotence (100%) and incontinence (55%). tumor volume was 1.1-27.2 cc (mean 11.1 cc). seven patients had seminal vesicle involvement, 9 had level iii capsule penetration, and 6 had positive surgical margins. follow-up ranges from one to fifty-two months (median 18 months). currently, 6 patients are clinically without disease and have serum prostate-specific antigen (psa) of 0.0 ng/ml. four patients have no clinical evidence of disease but do have detectable serum psa, and 4 patients have evidence of metastatic bone disease on bone scan with elevated serum psa levels. radical prostatectomy following radiation therapy has no greater immediate morbidity or mortality compared with radical prostatectomy without prior irradiation and takes only slightly longer to perform. however, there is a marked increased risk of impotence and incontinence. more patients followed for a longer time are needed to assess the benefit of radical prostatectomy on survival of patients who fail radiation therapy.
aggressive therapeutic amniocentesis for treatment of twin-twin transfusion syndrome. acute severe twin-twin transfusion syndrome occurs in about 1% of monochorionic twin gestations. in the most severe form, acute hydramnios develops in the recipient twin's sac and fetal hydrops may be present. the donor twin is anemic and oligohydramnios is present, so that the donor appears "stuck" in a cocoon made by its adherent amnion. in this report, aggressive therapeutic amniocentesis restored amniotic fluid volume to normal in both sacs in all pregnancies. fetal hydrops resolved in three of five (60%) of the fetuses affected. pregnancy was extended a mean 80 +/- 33 days (+/- 2 sd) and perinatal survival was 79%. these findings contrast dramatically with the virtual 100% mortality reported in the literature with no therapy. repeated aggressive amniocentesis effectively reversed the physiology of twin-twin transfusion syndrome and should be the treatment of choice for acute hydramnios, which previously had no recommended therapy.
improved flow cytometric determination of proliferative activity (s-phase fraction) from paraffin-embedded tissue. recent studies suggest that proliferative activity (s-phase fraction [spf]) may have greater prognostic significance than total nuclear dna content; however, relatively few studies have examined spf from paraffin-embedded tissue because of significant contamination of histograms with debris. in this study, cell cycle analysis was performed on 124 matched tissue specimens. fresh tissue was divided into two equal portions; one portion was frozen, whereas the other portion was processed and embedded in paraffin. s-phase could be determined for both frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue in 81 cases. correlation between spf from frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue was demonstrated (r = 0.80) when debris was subtracted from histograms with the use of two new subtraction algorithms referred to as multicut and singlecut. unlike other debris-subtraction algorithms, the quantity and distribution of debris calculated by these algorithms are dependent on the magnitude and position of histogram peaks. a lesser degree of correlation was demonstrated with the use of a standard exponential debris subtraction algorithm (r = 0.67). correlation of spf for aneuploid cases was greater when spf was calculated as a percentage of the aneuploid cell population rather than as a percentage of the entire cell population. this was attributed to the observation that the proportion of aneuploid cells from paraffin-embedded tissue was less than that from frozen tissue. the results of this study indicate that spf can be calculated from paraffin-embedded tissue with values comparable to those obtained from frozen tissue. the ability to calculate spf reliably from paraffin-embedded tissue should allow additional evaluation of this parameter as a prognostic indicator.
appraisal of gut lavage in the study of intestinal humoral immunity. direct investigation of intestinal humoral immunity requires collection of intestinal secretions or mucosal biopsy specimens, or both. a non-invasive technique of gut lavage, with a polyethyleneglycol electrolyte lavage solution as a means of collecting intestinal secretions for immunoglobulin and antibody studies, was evaluated. fifty patients were studied--25 immunologically normal patients or volunteers, 15 patients with untreated coeliac disease, and 10 patients with active crohn's disease. protease inhibitors were added promptly to samples to prevent proteolysis of immunoglobulin content. treated lavage samples were assayed by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin and antibody content. studies of serial lavage specimens showed that early, faecally contaminated specimens contained negligible quantities of immunoglobulin, but once the specimens became clear a steady state was reached, with little variation in immunoglobulin content between serial specimens and with a uniform dilution (around 20%) of the ingested polyethyleneglycol. gut lavage fluid iga was predominantly secretory, comprising 92%, 81.6%, and 76.7% respectively of the total iga gut lavage fluid content in the control, coeliac, and crohn's groups. high values of total igm and iga and igm antigliadin antibodies were detected in the coeliac group, and high values of igg in the crohn's disease group. this method of gut lavage is not only an effective bowel cleanser, but also a noninvasive means of obtaining intestinal secretions for the study of humoral immunity in gastrointestinal disease.
protective role of vitamin e in biological systems. vitamin e is well accepted as nature's most effective lipid-soluble, chain-breaking antioxidant, protecting cell membranes from peroxidative damage. free-radical-mediated pathology has been implicated in the development over time of degenerative diseases and conditions. this paper reviews the current research on the protective role and requirements for vitamin e and the other antioxidants in preventing or minimizing free-radical damage associated with specific diseases and lifestyle patterns and processes, including cancer, aging, circulatory conditions, arthritis, cataract, pollution, and strenuous exercise. while awaiting results of further human studies, research evidence suggests that an adequate intake of vitamin e and the other antioxidants can provide protection from the increasingly high free-radical concentrations caused by air pollutants and current lifestyle patterns.
cervical muscle myoelectric response to acute experimental sternocleidomastoid pain. a method is presented for investigating the response of passive and active muscle to experimentally induced deep muscle pain. ten healthy adult males performed multiple, submaximal isometric neck flexion tasks before and after pain had been induced in the sternocleidomastoid (scm) muscle by injecting 5 ml of a hypertonic (5%) saline solution. a similar volume of isotonic saline was injected into the contralateral muscle as a control. cervical myoelectric signal (mes) root-mean-square (rms) response to each injection was recorded from eight neck muscles over 8 minutes. the subject rated perceived pain at regular intervals using a visual analog scale (vas). sternocleidomastoid pain, which reached a mean of 36 mm on the 100-mm vas 2 minutes after the injection, resulted in significantly increased (1-2 microv, p less than 0.05) rms mes in the otherwise relaxed scm muscle during the first 2 minutes. this was followed by a gradual return to control values after 5 minutes. a similar trend in mes was found for the active scm muscle during a 10% maximum voluntary contraction (mvc) isometric neck flexion effort. thus, acute deep muscle pain caused subtle, yet systematic, changes in motor output in both the relaxed and active painful muscle, and its synergists and antagonists.
growth factor-dependent differentiation along the myeloid and lymphoid lineages in an immature acute t lymphocytic leukemia. bone marrow cells from a child with an immature (cd2+, cd5+, cd7+) acute t lymphocytic leukemia (t-all) were cultured in the presence and absence of human ril-2, il-3, or granulocyte-macrophage (gm)-csf. cells cultured without growth factors failed to divide and those initiated in the presence of il-2 or gm-csf underwent maturation and terminal t lymphoid or myelomonocytic differentiation, respectively. in contrast, a permanent growth factor-dependent cell line, designated tall-103/3, was established upon culture in il-3. the tall-103/3 cells gradually lost the t cell-specific markers and acquired a myeloid phenotype (cd15+, cd33+). switching of the il-3-dependent cells at an early passage to medium containing only human ril-2 resulted in the establishment of a subline, named tall-103/2, with a t lymphoid phenotype (cd3+, cd8+, tcr-gamma delta +, cd7+). the tall-103/2 cells strictly require il-2 for growth, are irreversibly committed to the lymphoid lineage, and cannot survive in the presence of any other hemopoietic growth factor tested so far. in contrast, the il-3-dependent tall-103/3 cells could be adapted to grow in synthetic (serum-free) medium also in the presence of either gm-csf or il-5, in which they retain a myeloid phenotype. interestingly, after 18 mo in culture in il-3, the tall-103/3 cells can still be phenotypically converted to the lymphoid lineage upon addition of il-2, thus maintaining its bipotentiality. despite the marked phenotypic differences, the tall-103/2 and tall-103/3 cell lines show the same karyotypes with multiple abnormalities present in the primary malignant clone and have identical rearrangements of the tcr-gamma and -delta loci, thus confirming their derivation from a common precursor cell. together, these findings indicate that the phenotype of immature t-all cells can be drastically modified by the presence of specific hemopoietic growth factors in the environment, leading to either lymphoid or myeloid lineage commitment while leaving their karyotype and genotype intact.
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura related to ticlopidine 4 patients had typical features of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp) after 3 to 8 weeks of ticlopidine therapy. in 2 ticlopidine was the only medication taken before ttp; in another, rechallenge with drugs other than ticlopidine that the patient had been taking did not produce relapse. in all patients the delay between start of ticlopidine and ttp was in the same range as the latent period before ticlopidine-induced neutropenia. no relapse occurred in the 4 to 43 months of follow-up in the 3 surviving patients.
occlusive arterial disease as a form of presentation of homocystinuria. homocystinuria was first described in 1962. the disease affects several systems including the eyes, skeletal and nervous and vascular systems. we present the case of a 28-year old woman who presented with a severe occlusive arteriopathy. screening for the most usual causes of arterial disease in young patients was negative, but a study of aminoaciduria and column chromatography confirmed the diagnosis of b6-responsive homocystinuria. although it was necessary to amputate her left leg, the patient remains asymptomatic 16 months after b6 therapy was started.
acute complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for total occlusion. the incidence of major complications after percutaneous coronary angioplasty (ptca) of a totally occluded artery was assessed retrospectively. a total of 1649 ptca procedures were analyzed. after exclusion of procedures for acute myocardial infarction or total occlusion that resulted from restenosis, 90 patients were selected. forty-four patients (49%) had stable angina and 46 (51%) had unstable angina. the estimated duration of occlusion was 87 +/- 78 days in patients with stable angina, as compared with 10 +/- 8 days in patients with unstable angina (p less than 0.001). abrupt vessel closure during ptca occurred only in patients with unstable angina (0% versus 17%, p less than 0.05). the major complication rate was 2.5% in the stable angina group, and 20% in unstable angina group (p less than 0.01). this rate was also significantly higher than the complication rate of 8% observed in 442 procedures that were performed during the same period in patients with the unstable angina and nonocclusive stenosis (p less than 0.01). patients with unstable angina who undergo ptca of a totally occluded artery represent a subset of high risk for major complications.
late potentials and inducible ventricular tachycardia in surgically repaired congenital heart disease. we compared signal-averaged electrocardiography with invasive electrophysiological study in patients after surgical repair of congenital heart disease to determine if potentially useful correlations exist between the two methods for assessment of risk for ventricular tachycardia. thirty-one patients (age, 1-49 years; mean, 10.6 years) with congenital heart disease repaired with right ventriculotomy or postrepair right bundle branch block (77% postoperative tetralogy of fallot) who had electrophysiological study were studied with signal-averaged electrocardiography. patients were classified by electrophysiological study results as having no inducible ventricular tachycardia, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, or sustained ventricular tachycardia. signal-averaged electrocardiograms were examined for the duration of low-amplitude (less than or equal to 40 microv) qrs signal, duration of total qrs, and root-mean-square voltage of the terminal 40 msec of the qrs. low-amplitude terminal root-mean-square voltage of 100 microv or less had 91% sensitivity and 70% specificity for ventricular tachycardia inducible by electrophysiological study. similar sensitivity but less specificity were seen using the criterion of 20 msec or more total low-amplitude qrs signal (initial plus terminal) or using total qrs duration of 128 msec or more. there was a weaker association between terminal low-amplitude qrs signal of 15 msec or more and inducible ventricular tachycardia.
vaginal infections in adult women. often trivialized by the medical profession, vaginitis in adult women is not only extremely common but is the source of considerable distress and often results in marked suffering. epidemiologic studies described in this article indicate the high prevalence of vaginitis and the large number of causes. although the majority of infections in women are due to bacterial vaginosis, vvc, and trichomoniasis, it is clear that many other causes exist, and we have yet to discover the etiology of many clinical syndromes. considerable progress has been made in understanding the pathogenesis of the three common vaginitides. although excellent progress has been made by the pharmaceutical industry in providing new drugs for vaginitis, any further progress will require a better understanding of etiology and pathogenesis. vaginitis causes major symptoms and is more than a nuisance problem. clinicians owe it to their patients to attempt to make an accurate diagnosis and not to rely on empiric therapy.
rehabilitation of three patients after treatment for herpes encephalitis. patients with herpes simplex encephalitis often are considered to be poor rehabilitation candidates because of their multiple deficits and grave prognosis. this report presents case reports on three patients with biopsy-proven herpes simplex encephalitis, all of whom were treated with acyclovir in acute care and then admitted to an inpatient rehabilitation program. all had multiple brain lesions with minimal motor findings but cognitive and communication deficits. one patient, two weeks after admission, slipped into a coma and was transferred to an acute care hospital where he subsequently expired. the other two made useful functional gains and were discharged home in two weeks and 10 weeks, suggesting that a trial of rehabilitation may be warranted after herpes simplex encephalitis.
electrocardiographic j waves after resuscitation from cardiac arrest. a patient was monitored prior to, during, and after cardiac arrest with a holter monitor and an electrocardiograph. the arrest occurred without any premonitory signs on the ecg. at the onset of the arrest, torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia occurred, which quickly degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. after a successful second defibrillation, the patient developed osborn waves, which subsided within a few minutes.
superior hypophyseal artery aneurysm. report of two cases. two cases of saccular intracranial aneurysms arising from the superior hypophyseal artery take-off from the internal carotid artery are presented. the angiographic findings and technical details of the operative approach are discussed. particular attention is focused on the use of fenestrated angled clips.
cardiac arrhythmias from a malpositioned greenfield filter in a traumatic quadriplegic. a case study is presented of premature greenfield filter discharge with intracardiac migration and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias. these arrhythmias also interfered with the patient's transition from ventilatory support via orotracheal intubation to noninvasive positive airway pressure ventilatory support methods. the patient's arrhythmias were controlled by a demand cardiac pacemaker and cardiac glycoside therapy. no anticoagulants were used. she had no further filter migration nor significant complications for 16 months after hospital discharge.
the importance of cytogenetic studies in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia. purpose: the prognostic importance of pretreatment bone marrow cytogenetic studies in adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia treated at a single institution, with an identical treatment program, is described. patients and methods: a total of 105 patients with a documented morphologic diagnosis of acute lymphocytic leukemia were reviewed for the purpose of this analysis. all patients had an extensive workup at presentation, and cytogenetic analysis was performed in 103 patients, using the giemsa banding technique with trypsin pretreatment on 24-hour cultured cells. results: the specific cytogenetic classification in the 103 patients who had the karyotypic analysis was as follows: diploid 27%; philadelphia chromosome-positive 13%; hyperdiploid 12%; b-cell karyotype 6%; 6q- and 14q+ abnormalities 4%; pseudodiploid 8%; hypodiploid 2%; and insufficient metaphases 28%. b-cell, 6q- or 14q+, and philadelphia chromosome-positive karyotypes tended to correlate with other known negative prognostic factors. patients with diploid, hyperdiploid, pseudodiploid, and hypodiploid karyotypes or with insufficient metaphases could be combined into one group with a favorable prognosis. in this group, the remission rate with induction chemotherapy was 89%, the median complete remission duration was 26 months, and the median survival was 25 months, with a 3-year survival rate of 45%. patients with philadelphia chromosome-positive, b-cell, and 6q- or 14q+ abnormalities collectively had an unfavorable prognosis. their response rate to induction chemotherapy was 65%, the median response duration was 7 months, and the median survival was 8 months, with a 3-year survival rate of less than 10%. conclusion: we conclude that the pretreatment bone marrow karyotype is an important part of the evaluation of adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia and provides significant prognostic information.
capabilities of supine exercise electrocardiography versus exercise radionuclide angiography in predicting coronary events. the ability of supine exercise electrocardiography and exercise radionuclide angiography to predict time to subsequent cardiac events (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction or late coronary bypass grafting or angioplasty) were compared in 265 patients with normal resting electrocardiograms who were not taking digoxin. all patients had undergone coronary catheterization and were initially treated medically. follow-up study was performed at a median of 51 months. separate logistic regression models, which had been previously developed to predict 3-vessel or left main coronary artery disease (cad), were compared using a cox regression analysis to predict time to a subsequent cardiac event. the exercise electrocardiography model, consisting of the magnitude of st depression, exercise heart rate and patient gender, was a powerful predictor (chi-square = 30.8, p less than 0.0001) of subsequent events. the exercise radionuclide angiography model, which included the exercise response of the pressure-volume ratio in addition to the exercise electrocardiography variables, had similar prognostic power (chi-square = 31.8, p less than 0.0001). in a separate analysis considering only cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction, the exercise electrocardiography model remained a significant predictor of events (chi-square = 12.2, p less than 0.001). none of the radionuclide angiography variables added significantly to the prognostic power of the exercise electrocardiography model. thus, in patients with a normal resting electrocardiogram who are not taking digoxin, the supine exercise electrocardiography model that predicts 3-vessel or left main cad also predicts future cardiac events. exercise radionuclide angiography does not provide any additional prognostic information in such patients.
reproducibility of growth hormone testing procedures: a comparison between 24-hour integrated concentration and pharmacological stimulation. the purpose of this study was to compare the reproducibility of two approaches to the evaluation of gh secretion: the integrated concentration of gh (ic-gh), a physiological test of gh secretion, and pharmacological stimulation tests. ic-gh was determined in 40 poorly growing children twice within 4 weeks. the first and second ic-gh were highly correlated r = 0.859, p less than 0.001. one hundred and thirteen poorly growing children underwent pharmacological gh stimulation tests twice within 6 weeks. a moderate correlation was found between the first and second pharmacological test r = 0.524, p less than 0.01. among the three pharmacological stimuli studied, clonidine (n = 81) had the highest reproducibility followed by arginine (n = 20), and insulin (n = 12). we conclude that ic-gh is more consistently reproducible than the gh response to repeated pharmacological stimulation.
intraoperative anaphylaxis: an association with latex sensitivity. latex products have recently been identified as the cause of severe intraoperative anaphylactic reactions. we have identified a group of pediatric patients who appear to be at increased risk for such reactions. fifteen patients with either spina bifida or congenital urologic abnormalities experienced 19 intraoperative anaphylactic reactions. all patients had frequent previous exposures to rubber materials since infancy as part of their management and/or investigative procedures. seven of 15 patients had a previous history of local skin reactions to rubber. only four patients were atopic. all patients had undergone multiple (two of 26) operative procedures before their reactions, the onset of which ranged from 40 to 290 minutes after induction of anesthesia. the reactions varied in intensity from urticaria to severe cardiorespiratory collapse. all these patients subsequently had positive allergy skin tests and positive rast to latex antigen. we conclude that this group is at risk when they are exposed to latex intraoperatively as a result of frequent past exposure to these materials. allergic evaluation for latex allergy may assist in the preoperative evaluation of similar patients. in sensitized patients, appropriate prophylactic measures, particularly the avoidance of latex, is required.
clinical observation on the association of gallstones and colorectal cancer. a possible association between gallstones, colorectal cancer, and gastric cancer was investigated. the age distribution and mean age of the two cancer groups were identical. the incidence of gallstones in 378 colorectal cancer cases and 869 gastric cancer cases was 7.1% and 5.5%, respectively. of colorectal cancer cases, 33 cases with multiple carcinomas had a significantly higher gallstone incidence than cases with a solitary carcinoma--24.2% and 5.5%, respectively. the mean age was 5 years older in gallstone cases than in those without gallstones in both cancer groups, and it was 4 years older in multiple-carcinoma cases than in solitary-carcinoma cases in the colorectal cancer group. these results suggest that the higher levels of same causative factors (i.e., dietary fat) are associated with a longer duration of gallstone formation and colorectal cancer development as demonstrated by multiple colorectal-carcinoma cases.
apparent reduction in the size of one side of the face associated with a small retrosplenial haemorrhage. a 68 year old japanese female with unilateral metamorphopsia of the face that developed after a small haemorrhage in the contralateral retrosplenial region, is described. the patient claimed that the right side of a face, that is, the left side when looked at by the patient, appeared smaller than the left. in addition, her drawings of the face showed some distortions. objects other than the face were perceived normally. cranial ct scan revealed a small high density area in the right retrosplenial region. the face appears to have a special representation in the posterior hemisphere.
effect of emitted power on waveform intensity in transcranial doppler this study assesses the problem of transcranial doppler recording failure and seeks to determine the extent to which this can be ameliorated by increased emitted power. we hypothesized that waveform intensity is directly related to the rate and quality of successful recording and may be compared quantitatively among groups of patients. among a large group of patients recorded at 800 mw/cm2 emitted power, intensity was strongest in white men, weakest in black women, and intermediate in black men and white women. it declined with age in women of either race, but not in men of either race. analysis of the effect of emitted power on intensity predicted that significant numbers of waveforms recorded at 800 mw/cm2 could not be recorded at the current clinical standards of 100 mw/cm2, the difference being most pronounced in elderly black women. temporal bone window thickness measured in a series of adult cadaver skulls was least in white men, greatest in black women, and intermediate in black men and white women. the findings of this study support the hypothesis that temporal bone window thickness is an important determinant of recording difficulty and suggest that increased emitted power can significantly increase successful recording, particularly in black and elderly patients. increased power alone, however, cannot completely solve the recording problem within safe limits.
conjugates of ursodeoxycholate protect against cholestasis and hepatocellular necrosis caused by more hydrophobic bile salts. in vivo studies in the rat. the protective effect of ursodeoxycholate conjugates against bile salt hepatotoxicity was studied in chronic bile fistula rats. taurochenodeoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate, infused intraduodenally at 24 or 16 mumols/100 g rat per hour, respectively, caused cholestasis and severe hepatocellular necrosis within 8 hours. in contrast, tauroursodeoxycholate or taurocholate at 48 mumols/100 g rat per hour were choleretic. tauroursodeoxycholate was not hepatotoxic, whereas taurocholate produced moderate hepatocellular necrosis. simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate to rats receiving taurochenoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate preserved bile flow and ameliorated hepatic injury in a dose-dependent manner. tauroursodeoxycholate protected equally by intravenous and intraduodenal routes. intravenous glycoursodeoxycholate also was protective. the hydrophobicity index of infused bile salts correlated well with their toxicity. concurrent administration of ursodeoxycholate conjugates did not reduce biliary recovery of intraduodenally infused [24-14c]-taurocholate. biliary alkaline phosphatase secretion was stimulated by infusion of taurocholate, taurodeoxycholate, or taurochenodeoxycholate; simultaneous infusion of ursodeoxycholate conjugates failed to prevent this increase. we conclude that ursodeoxycholate counteracts hepatoxicity of more hydrophobic bile salts via a direct effect at the level of the liver.
subaortic obstruction: intraoperative echocardiography as an adjunct to operation. fourteen patients undergoing operation for subaortic obstruction (membranous obstruction in 11 patients, tunnel obstruction in 2 patients, obstruction due to reduplicated mitral valve tissue in 1 patient) were evaluated by intraoperative epicardial echocardiography. in all 9 patients with "discrete" obstruction who underwent prebypass epicardial echocardiography, the septal and lateral attachments of the lesion were correctly demonstrated. the precise extent of tunnel stenosis was seen in both patients. the lateral attachment of the membrane in 4 patients and multiple extensions in another 2 were identified by the epicardial study (having been missed on precordial echocardiography). the discrete membrane was enucleated in 10 of the 11 patients and was partially resected in 1. one tunnel obstruction was completely relieved; the other was partially relieved. reduplicated mitral valve tissue in the remaining patient was completely resected. epicardial imaging after bypass showed remnants of the membrane in 2 patients. intraoperative doppler echocardiography and color flow imaging confirmed the absence of clinically significant residual gradients (less than 20 mm hg) in all but 1 patient with tunnel obstruction. epicardial imaging provided excellent morphological information about obstructive lesions of the left ventricular outflow tract and enabled immediate assessment of surgical repair.
cerebral tumor staging in patients with bronchial carcinoma by computed tomography. computerized tomographic (ct) scans of 271 patients with histologically proven bronchial carcinoma accomplished for initial tumor staging were retrospectively evaluated for signs of cerebral metastasis. the results for the histologic subtypes were quite different. in 13.8% of patients with small cell carcinoma and limited disease the authors found signs of brain metastasis. however, routine cerebral staging in these patients did not seem to be useful because of lack of therapeutic consequences. on the other hand, no patient with non-small cell carcinoma (n-scc) and tumor stage i or ii had brain metastases. all patients with brain metastasis from n-scc had been classified as tumor stage iii before cerebral imaging. among these patients, however, the authors found brain metastasis in 17.5% of those without known distant metastatic disease (iii/m0), especially in large cell carcinoma and in adenocarcinoma. stage iii/m0 patients should undergo routine cerebral imaging if their tumor is surgically resectable and thoracotomy is planned.
inverted papilloma of renal pelvis: flexible ureteroscopic diagnosis and treatment. a case is reported of inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis in a patient with previous transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. the renal pelvic lesion was diagnosed and treated with a flexible ureteropyeloscope. although nephroureterectomy was avoided, the patient must be carefully followed endoscopically and radiographically for recurrence of lesions throughout the urinary tract. this case represents the first report of the endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of an inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis. it demonstrates the vast potential for endoscopic diagnosis, treatment, and surveillance throughout the urinary tract.
the influence of dialysate sodium and variable ultrafiltration on fluid balance during hemodialysis. an important factor in the development of hypotension during hemodialysis (hd) is a decrease in blood volume, due to ultrafiltration (uf) and an insufficient refill of the intravascular compartment. this insufficient refill might be caused by a transcellular fluid shift from the extracellular to the intracellular compartment. we studied the influence of dialysate sodium concentration and uf rate on the refill rate, blood volume, intracellular (icv) and extracellular fluid volume (ecv). three different hd strategies were studied in 15 patients: (a) conventional hd (dialysate sodium 140 mmol/l); (b) hd with a sodium profile (140-148 mmol/l); and (c) hd with a sodium profile and a variable uf rate (high-low uf rate). icv and ecv were measured by non-invasive conductivity measurements, blood volume was calculated from erythrocyte counts before and after treatment. blood volume decrease was most pronounced during conventional hd, due to insufficient refilling without a detectable transcellular fluid shift. the sum of the decrease in icv and evc was less than during (b) and (c). the insufficient refill led to a higher prevalence of hypotension and cramps. the strategies (b) and (c) led to an significant and comparable transcellular fluid shift to the extracellular compartment. thus, the use of a sodium profile led to a better intravascular refill and clinical tolerance of hd. addition of a uf profile did not improve this any further.
causes and consequences of blood pressure alterations in obstructive sleep apnea. the obstructive sleep apnea (osa) syndrome has been considered to be a cause of both transient blood pressure elevations during sleep and sustained hypertension during the awake state. the purpose of this review was to examine critically the existing literature regarding (1) the blood pressure alterations associated with osa, (2) causal mechanisms relating specific blood pressure alterations to osa, and (3) potential consequences of the systemic circulatory abnormalities associated with osa. particular attention was directed at studies that assessed the prevalence of osa in patients with hypertension and that examined the effects on blood pressure of treatment of osa. we conclude that patients with osa have abnormal sleep blood pressure patterns, manifested most frequently by apnea-associated blood pressure elevations. confounding factors such as obesity and antihypertensive drug therapy, and conflicting evidence regarding changes in daytime blood pressure after therapy for osa, make it premature to conclude that osa and daytime hypertension are directly associated. circumstantial evidence suggests that the blood pressure alterations that occur during sleep could contribute to the high cardiovascular morbidity in patients with osa. further research into the relationship between osa and hypertension should improve the future care of patients with these conditions and enhance our understanding of cardiopulmonary pathophysiology.
treatment of ventricular tachycardia induced cardiogenic shock by percoronary chemical ablation. incessant ventricular arrhythmias pose an especially challenging therapeutic dilemma. we describe the successful treatment and follow-up of a patient with refractory ventricular tachycardia-induced cardiogenic shock with percoronary chemical ablation. after endocardial mapping was used to identify the "tachycardia-related" coronary artery, temporary termination of the arrhythmia with balloon occlusion and subselective intracoronary installation of iced saline as previously advocated was unsuccessful. this was probably due to a dual arterial blood supply to the arrhythmogenic focus. however, infusion of 2 cc ethanol (99%) permanently terminated the arrhythmia. contrary to previous experience, ethanol-induced arrhythmia termination did not result in arterial occlusion, further supporting a direct toxic effect on the myocardium as its mode of action. use of standard angioplasty balloon inflation prevents "backwash" of distally infused ethanol and more generalized cell death. the only complication of this procedure was temporary third-degree av block, requiring permanent pacemaker implantation.
three-dimensional reconstructed mr imaging of the inner ear. the three-dimensional fourier transform fast imaging with steady precession (fisp) technique was used to obtain high-resolution magnetic resonance (mr) images of the temporal bone region and to generate three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear. the three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear were directly synthesized from two-dimensional images of the temporal bone region by means of an external processing computer. with use of three-dimensional reconstructed images and stereoscopic observations, structures inside the temporal bone region and the positional relationship among them were easily recognized. these structures are difficult to demonstrate with two-dimensional images. this three-dimensional method was also shown to be useful for recognition of disease and anatomic malformations in the temporal bone region.
morphometry of the subepithelial circulation in sheep airways. effect of vascular congestion. in order to quantitate the subepithelial microvascular volume and its relation to the airway lumen, we conducted a morphometric analysis of the vascular compartment in the wall of the trachea (within a 55-microns depth from the epithelial basement membrane) and of 1.0 and 0.5-mm bronchioles of sheep. the lungs were fixed by bronchial and pulmonary artery perfusion with glutaraldehyde under three experimental conditions: (1) bronchial artery pressure, 100 mm hg pulmonary artery pressure, 20 mm hg (control); (2) bronchial artery pressure, 100 mm hg, pulmonary artery pressure, 40 mm hg (pulmonary hypertension, ph); (3) bronchial artery pressure, 100 mm hg, pulmonary artery pressure, 40 mm hg (pharmacologic vasodilation with sodium nitroprusside, ph + v). venous pressures were atmospheric. under control conditions, the microvascular volume fraction comprised 12, 16, and 15% of the subepithelial tissue in the trachea and 1-mm and 0.5-mm bronchioles, respectively. ph increased the microvascular volume fraction in the bronchioles (p less than 0.05), but it had no effect on the microvasculature in the trachea. ph + v approximately doubled the microvascular volume fraction in the trachea and the bronchioles. ph increased the mean wall thickness, and ph and ph + v decreased the airway cross-sectional area in the 1-mm bronchioles. these observations demonstrate that the microvasculature constitutes a considerable volume fraction of the subepithelial airway tissue and that vascular congestion can narrow the bronchiolar lumen.
alcoholics and liver transplantation. the ethics and social impact committee of the transplant and health policy center. two arguments underlie a widespread unwillingness to consider patients with alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver as candidates for transplantation. first, alcoholics are morally blameworthy, their condition the result of their own misconduct; such blameworthiness disqualifies alcoholics in unavoidable competition for organs with others who are equally sick but blameless. second, because of their habits, alcoholics will not exhibit satisfactory rates of survival after transplantation; good stewardship of a scarce lifesaving resource therefore requires that alcoholics not be considered for liver transplantation. these arguments are carefully analyzed and shown to be defective. there is not good moral or medical reason for categorically precluding alcoholics as candidates for liver transplantation. it would, in addition, be unjust to implement such a preclusion simply because others might respond negatively if we do not.
thrombectomy for late graft limb occlusion: our experience in 182 consecutive cases. late occlusion of an aortofemoral bypass graft is usually caused by fibrointimal hyperplasia or progressive atherosclerosis. several surgical approaches have been advocated in order to minimize the operative risk, to correct the impaired inflow and to provide a satisfactory outflow. in the last 16 years, in the institute of vascular surgery and angiology of the university of milan, we have operated upon 182 consecutive thrombosed grafts. inflow was restored by performing a graft limb thrombectomy using a fogarty balloon catheter and simultaneously employing an endarterectomy ring stripper to dislodge tenaciously adherent fibrinous material and thrombotic plug. as the superficial femoral artery was generally occluded, usually a good outflow was achieved by profundaplasty in 101 cases (55.5%) or direct bypass (interposition graft), to a more distal segment of the profunda femoris artery in 55 cases (30.2%). concomitant popliteal or tibial revascularization was done in the remaining 26 cases (14.3%) when pre-operative or intra-operative findings suggested an inadequate collateral network through the profunda femoris artery. early re-occlusion, which occurred in 14 cases (7.6%), generally due to insufficient outflow, was corrected by additional intervention in 7 cases (3.8%), while 7 legs were amputated for extensive atherosclerotic disease. six patients died giving a mortality rate of 3.3%. this low rate in a high risk population is probably related to our policy of operating under loco-regional anaesthesia. long term results, with a patency rate of 62.0% at 3 years and 60.2% at 5 years (life table method), prove that this operation is a durable procedure for correction of graft limb thrombosis.
diet, smoking, and alcohol: influence on coronary heart disease risk. the framingham study on coronary heart disease (chd) has shown that life-style, particularly diet, smoking, and alcohol consumption, has a great impact on the incidence of chd. blood lipoproteins, rather than total blood cholesterol, have been found to be more accurate predictors of chd risk. blood triglyceride, previously considered to have little bearing on chd risk, was found to have a negative impact in many cases. a population subgroup with high triglyceride greater than or equal to 1.7 mmol/l (greater than or equal to 150 mg/dl), low high-density lipoprotein less than or equal to 1.04 mmol/l (less than or equal to 40 mg/dl), increased insulin resistance, and a higher incidence of diabetes mellitus has been found to be at increased risk for chd. diet intervention trials have shown that a reduction in total cholesterol and saturated fat consumption produced reduction in chd incidence proportionate to the fall in cholesterol. cigarette smoking increased chd risk moderately; those who smoked one pack per day had twice the risk of nonsmokers. alcohol consumption actually lowered chd incidence in the framingham study; however, when alcohol consumption was greater than two drinks per day, a rise in mortality from cancer and stroke was observed.
multimodality therapy for advanced and recurrent vulvar squamous cell carcinoma. a pilot project. from 1985 to 1989 eight women with advanced or recurrent vulvar carcinoma were treated at the women's cancer center of the university of minnesota hospital and clinic. each received a combination of 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin c and cisplatin during radiotherapy. five of the eight women who underwent posttreatment radical vulvectomy had acceptable operative morbidity. six patients experienced a complete clinical response. of them, one had microscopic residual disease in the surgical specimen. one patient with recurrent vulvar carcinoma experienced progression of disease on therapy. one death was attributable to chemotherapy toxicity, and two patients died of intercurrent disease. the overall survival rate at 27 months was 33%. this multimodality approach to the treatment of advanced vulvar carcinoma should be considered when designing a therapeutic approach to treating extensive or resistant vulvar carcinoma.
selective impairment of memory and visual perception in splenial tumours. the neuropsychological abnormalities found in 9 patients with tumours involving the splenium of the corpus callosum are described. the outstanding features of their cognitive deficits were a severe memory deficit and visual perception impairment in the presence of relatively intact intellect. it is argued that (1) the amnesia is due to damage to the fornix where that structure is closely applied to the splenium and that it is the result of a disconnection between the frontal and temporal lobes, although the possibility that damage to more than one structure, for example, retrosplenial cortex and fornix, cannot be excluded; (2) there is a dual pathway for visual object recognition, one of which passes directly to the dominant hemisphere for semantic analysis and the other via the nondominant hemisphere for prior perceptual analysis. further, it is postulated that there is a subcortical as well as a callosal route between the hemispheres that is important for visual object recognition.
nifedipine protects the heart from the acute deleterious effects of cocaine if administered before but not after cocaine. background. we tested the hypothesis that nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, could ameliorate the toxic effects of cocaine on the myocardium. methods and results. in an initial protocol, anesthetized dogs were pretreated with nifedipine or saline and then administered cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.v. bolus). coronary blood flow, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and the first derivation of left ventricular pressure (dp/dt) were measured at baseline, 2 minutes, and 15 minutes after cocaine administration. nifedipine pretreatment prevented the early cocaine-induced decrease in coronary blood flow and improved left ventricular dp/dt compared with untreated control animals. after cocaine, ejection fraction fell in the saline group to 37 +/- 3% but increased in the nifedipine group to 59 +/- 4% (p less than 0.05). in a second protocol, vehicle or intravenous nifedipine was administered after an infusion of cocaine (10 mg/kg). in contrast to pretreatment, there was no significant improvement in left ventricular function or coronary blood flow in nifedipine-treated versus control animals. data from the study also suggested that cocaine acts directly on the myocardium. within seconds of cocaine bolus administration, coronary blood flow in control animals increased to a peak level 59 +/- 14% higher than before cocaine and left ventricular dp/dt decreased by 23 +/- 5%, providing evidence that cocaine causes direct depression of myocardial function independent of a decrease in myocardial blood flow. conclusions. we conclude that nifedipine administered as a pretreatment protects against the depression of myocardial function and decrease in coronary blood flow caused by acute cocaine administration. however, when nifedipine is given after cocaine, no improvement is seen. cocaine has a direct negative inotropic effect on the heart that is independent of a decrease in coronary blood flow.
retrovirus from human t-cell leukemia virus type i-associated myelopathy is the same strain as a prototype human t-cell leukemia virus type i. a retrovirus was isolated from a t-cell line that was established from lymphocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with human t-cell leukemia virus type i-associated myelopathy (ham), and its genome was sequenced. the nucleotide sequence of the 3' half of the total genome was identical in 99.5% of the nucleotides to that of the prototype human t-cell leukemia virus type i that was derived from a patient with adult t-cell leukemia. these results indicate that the same retrovirus human t-cell leukemia virus type i is associated with both a neurological disease, ham, and a lymphoproliferative disease, adult t-cell leukemia.
prospective follow-up for malignant melanoma in patients with atypical-mole (dysplastic-nevus) syndrome. a total of 357 white patients who had melanocytic nevi that fulfilled the clinical criteria for the "classic" atypical-mole (dysplastic-nevus) syndrome (100 or more melanocytic nevi; one or more melanocytic nevi 8 mm or larger in diameter; and, one or more melanocytic nevi with atypical features) were followed for the development of cutaneous malignant melanomas. seventeen patients (4.8%) developed malignant melanomas during an average follow-up period of 49 months. one patient developed two malignant melanomas. eight of the malignant melanomas detected were in situ and ten were invasive melanomas (less than 0.86 mm in breslow thickness), implying an excellent prognosis. the number of malignant melanomas detected in these patients exceeded significantly the number expected to occur in age- and sex-matched white controls. all groups were shown to have an increased risk for the development of malignant melanomas. total-body photographs were helpful in detecting changes in size, shape, and color that led to the diagnosis of malignant melanoma. these data support the concept that patients with this readily regionalized clinical presentation of classic atypical-mole syndrome are at an increased risk for malignant melanomas and, therefore, should be examined regularly.
the pharmacokinetics of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in the rabbit. the pharmacokinetics of the activated and latent forms of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (pai-1) isolated from ht1080 fibrosarcoma cells (ht1080 pai-1) and a nonglycosylated form of human pai-1 isolated from a yeast expression system (rpai-1) were followed in the rabbit. as assessed by an immunologic assay specific for human pai-1, guanidine hci activated ht1080 pai-1 and rpai-1 entered the total plasma volume following intravenous bolus administration and exhibited a biphasic clearance pattern. the t1/2s of ht1080 pai-1 for the initial and beta phases equalled 6.0 and 24.8 minutes, respectively. the t1/2s of rpai-1 for the initial and beta phases equalled 8.8 and 34.0 minutes, respectively. similar results were obtained by measuring pai-1 activity in plasma and with trace amounts of 125i-rpai-1, suggesting that the above pharmacokinetic behavior could also apply to endogenous pai-1. the liver was the main site of rpai-1 clearance. unactivated, latent pai-1 exhibited a very different pharmacokinetic profile. over 80% of latent rpai-1 cleared from the circulation within 10 minutes (t1/2 = 1.7 minutes). the difference in clearance behavior between activated and latent pai-1 may be related to the ability of activated pai-1, but not latent pai-1, to rapidly form high-molecular-weight complexes with plasma binding factors which were observed in vitro and in vivo. because pai-1 could potentially tilt the fibrinolytic balance toward a prothrombotic state, its rapid clearance may represent an important control mechanism governing the circulating levels of this key component of the fibrinolytic pathway.
the interplay of local and distant control in the cure of cervical cancer. from 1978 to 1986, 183 women with cervical cancer received definitive radiation therapy after extraperitoneal surgical staging. relapse-free rates were strong functions of pelvic lymph node metastases and cervical size. the recurrence distribution consisted of 4% isolated local, 13% isolated distant, and 17% combined local and distant failures. with the assumption of independent local and distant failure probabilities, suit et al.'s method was extended to assess potential improvement in cure attainable with perfect local and distant control, yielding local (lsa) and distant (dsa) survival advantages of 17% and 28%. various subsets of clinical stage, cervical size, pelvic node metastases, periaortic metastases, and peritoneal metastases had lsa from 12% to 27% and dsa from 12% to 71%. for any prognostic group, lsa never exceeded dsa, showing that effective systemic therapy would have a greater impact on improving survival than would advances in local and regional tumor control. therapeutic implications and limitations of the extended lsa-dsa model are discussed. this form of analysis can be used to guide the intensity of local and distant treatment to maximize the cure of the patient with cancer.
desensitization in the management of vancomycin hypersensitivity. vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal infections. one of the well-known hypersensitivity reactions to this agent is the "red-man syndrome," which is believed to involve drug-induced histamine release in certain individuals. although rate and/or dose reductions may be effective in some cases, some hypersensitivity reactions necessitate the discontinuation of vancomycin. in this article one patient is described who developed vancomycin-associated reactions consistent with the red-man syndrome despite having tolerated vancomycin administration previously. this case was managed by sequential increments in vancomycin administration over several days that allowed for therapeutic doses of the drug to be administered. prior to desensitization, vancomycin administration at a lowered rate and dose was unsuccessfully attempted, despite the presence of combination antihistamine therapy. a loss of skin prick test reactivity to vancomycin was demonstrated after successful desensitization. this desensitization method may be useful in managing certain refractory cases of vancomycin hypersensitivity.
air in the fissure for the ligamentum teres: new sign of intraperitoneal air on plain radiographs. in each of four patients in whom an acute spontaneous pneumoperitoneum developed, a vertically directed area of hyperlucency in the right upper quadrant was seen on radiographs of the abdomen obtained with the patient supine. this finding, which appeared in the absence of other characteristic signs of free air on plain radiographs and which, to the authors' knowledge, has not been previously recognized, represented intraperitoneal gas confined to the fissure for the ligamentum teres (flt). the location of the hyperlucent area was confirmed with computed tomography or laparotomy in each patient. the distinctive configuration of air in the flt is a subtle but reliable indicator of pneumoperitoneum.
nasal midline masses in infants and children. dermoids, encephaloceles, and gliomas. nasal dermoids, gliomas, and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development. we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions. in view of the potential intracranial connection, patients are at risk for intracranial infection, and early surgical correction is thus imperative. neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement.
efficacy of ibopamine in the treatment of heart failure. loss of myocardial contractility, reflexly enhanced vasoconstriction, and neuroendocrine excitation are the pathophysiologic hallmarks of low-output heart failure. drugs that counter both consequences afford considerable therapeutic potential in retarding and perhaps even in staying the consequences of the syndrome. ibopamine possesses such potential through its unique ability to stimulate both dopaminergic- and beta-adrenoreceptors in the heart and circulatory system. stimulation of dopaminergic- receptors and beta 2-adrenoreceptors results in vasodilatation in all regional vascular territories. beta 2-adrenoreceptor agonist activity also affords mild positive inotropic activity in the heart, whereas stimulation of presynaptic dopaminergic- receptors (da2) attenuates the increased sympathetic neural outflow. the drug also suppresses the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in addition to having a direct natriuretic activity. the pharmacodynamic effects of ibopamine, exerted through its metabolite epinine, are translated into measurable therapeutic benefits in patients with chronic heart failure. the increase in peripheral blood flow induced in all regional vascular territories, including the kidneys, is associated with increased cardiac output and stroke volume and reduction in left ventricular pressure work, wall stress, and myocardial oxygen consumption. plasma norepinephrine, angiotensin, and aldosterone are also reduced, and renal sodium excretion is enhanced. these hemodynamic and neuroendocrine activities, which are not subject to tolerance during sustained administration of the drug, are accompanied by clinically significant improvement in symptoms, exercise tolerance, and the new york heart association classification of disability. more important, no proarrhythmic effects have been observed during sustained treatment, and the minimal side effects observed during long-term treatment enhance the safety profile of the drug.
dietary fats and cancer. evidence relating dietary fat to cancer at sites such as the breast and colon is provided by experiments showing that animals fed high-fat diets develop cancer at these sites more readily than do animals fed low-fat diets and by epidemiological data from different countries showing strong positive correlations between cancer incidence and mortality, and level of dietary fat. experiments on animals have indicated that polyunsaturated vegetable oils promote cancer more effectively than do saturated fats or polyunsaturated fish oils, whereas in the epidemiological data, total dietary fat correlates with cancer incidence and mortality at least as well as does any particular type of fat. case-control and cohort studies have not shown strong indications of a relationship between dietary fat and cancer, perhaps because of methodological difficulties inherent in such studies. the weight of evidence continues to indicate that long-term adherence to a low-fat diet can reduce the risk of some common types of cancer.
peripheral arterial vasodilation hypothesis of sodium and water retention in pregnancy: implications for pathogenesis of preeclampsia-eclampsia. primary peripheral arterial vasodilation with relative underfilling of the arterial circulation occurs in early pregnancy and leads to several consequences, including decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressures, enhanced cardiac output secondary to afterload reduction, stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis, nonosmotic stimulation of thirst and vasopressin release, and renal sodium and water retention with expansion of the extracellular fluid and plasma volume compartments. these are events known to occur in all states of arterial vasodilation. pregnancy has, however, several unique features. primary arterial vasodilation generally is associated with no change or a decrease in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate and failure to escape from the sodium-retaining effects of aldosterone. in early pregnancy, renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate increase by 30-50% in parallel with the peripheral arterial vasodilation but before plasma volume expansion. no known vasodilator exhibits such a profound effect on renal hemodynamics. vasodilating prostaglandins may contribute to, but cannot explain, this remarkable enhancement of renal hemodynamics in early pregnancy. therefore, a highly potent, as yet undefined, systemic and renal vasodilator must be unique to pregnancy. the increased glomerular filtration rate and filtered sodium load with enhanced distal tubular sodium delivery allows escape from aldosterone, an effect not observed in other states of arterial underfilling. this vasodilator may also account, at least in part, for the vascular resistance to angiotensin known to occur in normal pregnancy. this hypothesis for the normal physiology of pregnancy sets the stage for understanding the pathogenesis of preeclampsia-eclampsia.
results of primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. the influence of multivessel coronary artery disease on the outcome of reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction has not been fully characterized. direct coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy was performed during evolving myocardial infarction in 285 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease at 5.2 +/- 4.2 h after the onset of chest pain. two vessel disease was present in 163 patients (57%) and three vessel disease in 122 (43%). an anterior infarct was present in 123 patients (43%), cardiogenic shock in 33 (12%) and age greater than or equal to 70 years in 59 (21%). angioplasty of the infarct-related vessel was successful in 256 patients (90%), including 92% with two vessel and 88% with three vessel disease (p = ns). emergency bypass surgery was needed in six patients (2%). in-hospital death occurred in 33 patients (12%), including 13 with two vessel and 20 with three vessel disease (p less than 0.05). the mortality rate was only 4% in the subgroup of 101 patients who met entry criteria for thrombolytic trials. the in-hospital mortality rate was 45% in patients in shock and 7% in patients not in shock (p less than 0.01). logistic regression analysis identified shock and age greater than or equal to 70 years as independently associated with in-hospital death. in 135 patients who underwent predischarge left ventriculography, global ejection fraction increased from 50% to 57% (p less than 0.001) and regional wall motion in the infarct zone improved in 59% of patients. follow-up data were available in 251 patients (99%) at a mean of 35 +/- 19 months.
echocardiographic left ventricular mass and electrolyte intake predict arterial hypertension. objective: to identify predictors of arterial hypertension. patients: one hundred thirty-two normotensive adults from a large employed population. methods: echocardiography, standard blood tests, and 24-hour urine collection, at baseline and after an interval of 3 to 6 years (mean, 4.7 +/- 0.8 years). results: at follow-up, 15 subjects (11%; 7 men, 8 women) had a systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm hg or a diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mm hg or both (mean, 143 +/- 7 and 87 +/- 6 mm hg, respectively). at baseline, subjects who developed hypertension had a greater left ventricular mass index than those who did not (92 +/- 25 compared with 77 +/- 19 g/m2 body surface area; p less than 0.005) and higher 24-hour urinary sodium/potassium excretion ratio (3.6 +/- 1.7 compared with 2.6 +/- 1.4; p less than 0.04); there were no differences in race, initial age, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, coronary risk factors, or plasma renin activity. the likelihood of developing hypertension rose from 3% in the lowest quartile of sex-adjusted left ventricular mass index to 24% in the highest quartile (p less than 0.005); a parallel trend was less regular for quartiles of the sodium/potassium excretion ratio (p less than 0.04). in multivariate analyses, follow-up systolic pressures in all subjects and in the 117 who remained normotensive were predicted by initial age, systolic blood pressure, black race, and sex-adjusted left ventricular mass index; final diastolic blood pressure was predicted by its initial value, plasma triglyceride levels, urinary sodium/potassium ratio, low renin activity, black race, and plasma glucose level. conclusions: echocardiographic left ventricular mass in normotensive adults is directly related to the risk for developing subsequent hypertension. left ventricular mass improves prediction of future systolic pressure, whereas diastolic pressure is more related to initial metabolic status. black race is also an independent determinant of higher subsequent blood pressure.
lidocaine potentiation of cocaine toxicity. study hypothesis: the toxic effects of cocaine are enhanced in the presence of lidocaine. study population: male sprague-dawley rats weighing 200 to 300 g. methods: animals received intraperitoneal injections of cocaine (10, 20, 35, or 50 mg/kg), lidocaine (30 or 40 mg/kg), or a combination of all doses of cocaine given simultaneously with 30 or 40 mg/kg lidocaine. the incidence and time to seizure and death were recorded in these groups and compared by chi 2 and analysis of variance analyses, respectively. results: at doses of 30 or 40 mg/kg, lidocaine does not induce seizures or death. the effect of simultaneous injection of both cocaine and lidocaine was to dramatically increase the incidence of both seizures and death over that of cocaine alone. the incidence of seizures in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone was 10%; this increased to 50% and 80% with the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine, respectively (p less than or equal to .05; p less than or equal to .01). death did not occur in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone; the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine resulted in death in 30% and 60% of animals, respectively (p less than or equal to .01 each group). similarly, in rats receiving 50 mg/kg cocaine, the incidence of death increased from 0% to 60% and 80% with 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine, respectively (p less than or equal to .01). conclusion: in the rat, overall toxicity of cocaine is significantly increased with simultaneous exposure to lidocaine.
mucin production by human colonic carcinoma cells correlates with their metastatic potential in animal models of colon cancer metastasis. patients with mucinous colorectal cancers characteristically present with advanced disease, however, the relationship between mucin production by colon cancer cells and their metastatic potential remains unclear. we therefore sought to define the relationship between mucin production by human colon cancer cells and metastatic ability by employing animal models of colon cancer metastasis. ls lim 6, a colon carcinoma cell line with high liver metastasizing ability during cecal growth in nude mice produced twofold more metabolically labeled intracellular mucin and secreted four- to fivefold more mucin into the culture medium compared to poorly metastatic parental line ls174t. this was accompanied by a similar elevation in poly(a)+ rna detected by blot hybridization with a human intestinal mucin cdna probe, and increases in mucin core carbohydrate antigens determined immunohistochemically. variants of ls174t selected for high (hm 7) or low (lm 12) mucin synthesizing capacity also yielded metastases after cecal growth and colonized the liver after splenic-portal injection in proportion to their ability to produce mucin. inhibition of mucin glycosylation by the arylglycoside benzyl-alpha-n-acetyl-galactosamine greatly reduced liver colonization after splenic-portal injection of the tumor cells. these data suggest that mucin production by human colon cancer cells correlates with their metastatic potential and affects their ability to colonize the liver in experimental model systems.
varicella with delayed hemiplegia. we report 4 children who developed acute hemiplegia 7 weeks to 4 months after varicella infection. in 2 patients, carotid angiography demonstrated segmental narrowing and occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. their clinical and angiographic features were similar to those associated with contralateral hemiplegia after herpes zoster ophthalmicus, the pathogenesis of which comprises cerebral angiitis due to varicella zoster viral infection. we believe that our patients had the same pathogenesis. in a survey of infectious diseases in our region, the frequency of varicella with delayed hemiparesis was roughly 1:6,500 varicella patients.
analysis of prognostic factors and clinicopathological staging of thymoma the prognostic value of four clinical variables (age and sex of patients, association with myasthenia gravis, and clinical stage) and histological type was analyzed in 83 consecutive patients with thymoma, histologically classified as cortical, medullary, and mixed. age, sex, and association with myasthenia gravis did not prove to represent significant prognostic factors; clinical stage and histological type, on the contrary, had a highly significant prognostic value (p less than 0.001). a model of clinicopathological staging, based on both clinical stage and histological type, in which three major prognostic groups are considered is proposed. the degree of significance of this model is higher (p less than 0.0001) than that of clinical stage and histological type considered individually; its validity is further supported by the results of multivariate analysis according to the cox regression model (p = 0.0001). we think it represents a prognostically valuable approach to the problem of management of thymoma.
location of port-wine stains and the likelihood of ophthalmic and/or central nervous system complications. of 310 patients with port-wine stains, 68% had more than one dermatome involved; 85% had unilateral and 15% had a bilateral distribution of their port-wine stain. at the time of examination, 8% of all patients with trigeminal port-wine stains had evidence of eye and/or central nervous system (cns) involvement. extensive involvement, with port-wine stain over the trunk and extremities as well as the head and neck, was observed in 12%. patients who did not have port-wine stains on the areas served by branches v1 and v2 of the trigeminal nerve had no signs or symptoms of eye and/or cns involvement. port-wine stains of the eyelids, bilateral distribution of the birthmark, and unilateral port-wine stains involving all three branches of the trigeminal nerve were associated with a significantly higher likelihood of having eye and/or cns complications. twenty-four percent of those with bilateral trigeminal nerve port-wine stains had eye and/or cns involvement compared with 6% of those with unilateral lesions. all those who had eye and/or cns complications had port-wine stain involvement of the eyelids; in 91% both upper and lower eyelids were involved, whereas in 9% only the lower eyelid was involved. none of those with upper eyelid port-wine stains alone had eye and/or cns complications. in addition, 3 (75%) of the 4 subjects with seizures alone had bilateral port-wine stain involvement. a third group, these with unilateral v1, v2, and v3 port-wine stains, had eye and/or cns complications in 3 (19%) of 16 subjects.
warm heart surgery. hypothermia is widely acknowledged to be the fundamental component of myocardial protection during cardiac operations. although it prolongs the period of ischemic arrest by reducing oxygen demands, hypothermia is associated with a number of major disadvantages, including its detrimental effects on enzymatic function, energy generation, and cellular integrity. we hypothesized that the ideal protected state of the heart would be electromechanically arrested and perfused with blood, that is, aerobic arrest. under these conditions the fundamental need for hypothermia becomes questionable. we have developed a novel approach to myocardial protection during cardiac operations based on these concepts, in which the chemically arrested heart is perfused continuously with blood and maintained at 37 degrees c. in 121 consecutive coronary bypass procedures we have compared this approach with a historical cohort of 133 consecutive patients treated with hypothermic cardioplegia. perioperative myocardial infarction was significantly less prevalent (1.7% versus 6.8%; p less than 0.05) in the warm cardioplegic group, as was the use of the intraaortic balloon pump (0.9% versus 9.0%; p less than 0.005) and the prevalence of low output syndrome (13.5% versus 3.3%; p less than 0.005). cardiac output immediately after bypass was significantly higher than before bypass (3.1 +/- 0.9 versus 4.9 +/- 1.0 l/min; p less than 0.001) only in the warm cardioplegia group. furthermore, the heartbeat in 99.2% of patients treated with continuous warm cardioplegia converted to normal sinus rhythm spontaneously after removal of the aortic crossclamp compared with only 10.5% of the hypothermic group. the time from removal of the aortic crossclamp to discontinuation of cardiopulmonary bypass (i.e., reperfusion time) was significantly shorter in the warm cardioplegia group (11 +/- 4.3 versus 27 +/- 5.6 minutes; p less than 0.001). our results suggest that continuous normothermic blood cardioplegia is safe and effective. conceptually, this represents a new approach to the problem of maintaining excellent myocardial preservation during cardiac operations.
effect of drug and diet treatment of mild hypertension on diastolic blood pressure. the taim research group. the trial of antihypertensive interventions and management is a multicenter randomized trial designed to examine the diastolic blood pressure response of various combinations of pharmacological and dietary interventions in the treatment of mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure 90-100 mm hg). eight hundred and seventy-eight participants at 110-160% of ideal weight were randomly allocated to nine drug/diet treatment groups receiving either a placebo, chlorthalidone (25 mg), or atenolol (50 mg), combined with a usual, a weight loss, or a low sodium/high potassium diet. the primary outcome was diastolic blood pressure change from baseline to 6 months. seven hundred and eighty-seven participants had follow-up data. the mean baseline diastolic blood pressure was 93.8 mm hg; 55.9% of the participants were male, and the weight loss diet group lost an average of 4.7 kg. multiple comparisons were accounted for in the analysis. a significantly greater lowering of diastolic blood pressure (12.4 mm hg) was achieved in the atenolol group compared with either the low sodium/high potassium diet group (7.9 mm hg, p = 0.001) or weight loss group (8.8 mm hg, p = 0.006). adding weight loss to chlorthalidone significantly enhanced blood pressure lowering (15.1 mm hg) when compared with the diuretic alone (10.8 mm hg, p = 0.002), but adding a low sodium/high potassium diet (12.2 mm hg, p = 0.029) did not. in the short-term treatment of mild hypertension where diastolic blood pressure is the sole consideration, drugs outperform diet, and weight loss is beneficial, especially with diuretics.
inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (plasma cell granuloma). clinicopathologic study of 20 cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations. twenty cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (imt) were studied; 19 involved the lung and 1 the esophagus only. the patients' ages ranged from 3 to 72 years. there were 9 males and 11 females. involvement of a bronchus was seen in one case and of mediastinal structures in four. chest pain and dyspnea were common symptoms; eight patients were asymptomatic. seven patients underwent lobectomy, 12 local excision, and 1 biopsy alone. the lesions were nonencapsulated and ranged from 1.2 to 15 cm. various proportions of plasma cells, histiocytes, and spindle cells were observed; the latter corresponded ultrastructurally to fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, were immunoreactive for vimentin and actin and focally for desmin, and were negative for epithelial markers. plasma cells were polyclonal for light chains. one patient had two recurrences, and in one case a large pleural imt was found eight years after the excision of a similar lesion in the lung. all patients with follow-up (ten) were well as long as ten years after the diagnosis (average, 3.7 years).
indications for distal arterial reconstruction in the presence of palpable pedal pulses. eight patients with severe pedal ischemia in the presence of palpable foot pulses are described. all had atherosclerosis, and seven patients also had diabetes. there were two anatomic patterns of disease, including supramalleolar obstruction with reconstitution of pulsatile flow in three patients and segmental occlusion of the pedal vessels in five. all patients underwent arterial reconstructive surgery. patency was sustained in six patients, with limb salvage in five and below-knee amputation in one patient for persistent necrosis and infection of an open amputation. of the two eventual bypass failures, a transmetatarsal amputation continued to heal in one patient, and the other required amputation below the knee. palpable pedal pulses and satisfactory ankle/brachial indexes did not rule out the presence of surgically correctable distal arterial occlusive disease. therefore arteriography is indicated in any patient with persistent forefoot ischemia that fails to respond to conservative measures. the safety and patency of the distal reconstructive procedures performed in this series suggest that salvage of weight-bearing tissue and rapid healing, as well as limb salvage, are legitimate indications for revascularization.
treatment of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis with continuous intraventricular infusion of recombinant interleukin-2. a 42-year-old man developed leptomeningeal carcinomatosis 6 years after treatment of a malignant melanoma. he was treated with two courses of recombinant interleukin-2, administered as a continuous intraventricular infusion (6 x 10e5 u/24 h) during 5 days. during the first day of the first course he also received 5 x 10e9 lymphokine-activated killer cells intraventricularly. this gave rise to a severe elevation of intracranial pressure, with headaches and meningismus. during the second course no lak cells were administered. this course was tolerated much better. the neurological status did not change during the treatment. recombinant interleukin-2 levels were maintained at about 300 u/ml during both courses.
palliative repair of aortic atresia associated with tricuspid atresia and transposition of the great arteries. successful palliative repair of aortic atresia and hypoplastic aortic arch associated with tricuspid atresia in a neonate is described. the repair consisted of reconstruction of the hypoplastic aortic arch with an equine pericardial patch, division of the patient ductus arteriosus, connection of the pulmonary artery to the aorta, implantation of the proximal part of the ascending aorta into the main pulmonary artery, and anastomosis of a polytetrafluoroethylene graft 5 mm in diameter between the right ventricular outflow tract and the central pulmonary artery, which was transferred anteriorly to the main pulmonary artery.
progressing cerebral infarction in relation to plasma glucose in gerbils. we studied neurologic morbidity and its evolution during hyperglycemia induced immediately after permanent unilateral common carotid artery ligation in mongolian gerbils. a total of 60 animals were divided into five groups: one experiencing severe hyperglycemia for 1 hour after the onset of ischemia (brief hyperglycemia group, n = 13), a normoglycemic control group for the brief hyperglycemia group (n = 12), a group with severe hyperglycemia for 4 hours after the onset of ischemia (prolonged hyperglycemia group, n = 11), a normoglycemic control group for the prolonged hyperglycemia group (n = 13), and a hyperosmolar normoglycemic control group for the prolonged hyperglycemia group (n = 11). neurologic morbidity and mortality were higher in the two hyperglycemic groups than in the three normoglycemic control groups. the neurologic deficit progressed according to the duration of severe hyperglycemia. in the three normoglycemic control groups neurologic status stabilized 120 minutes after the onset of ischemia, in the brief hyperglycemia group stabilization occurred at 210 minutes, and in the prolonged hyperglycemia group neurologic deficit progressed for approximately 360 minutes, coinciding with the death of all but one gerbil, in which the neurologic deficit remained stable until death 23 hours after ischemia. we suggest that hyperglycemia is another cause of progressing cerebral infarction.
acute myeloid leukemia and background radiation in an expanded case-referent study. a case-referent study that investigated possible associations between environmental and occupational exposures and acute myeloid leukemia was performed on 86 cases and 172 referents, all of whom were living. exposure information was obtained through a questionnaire mailed to each subject. an association was found between time spent in concrete buildings at home and work and leukemia morbidity. in addition, extensive x-ray examinations that occurred more than 5 y prior to diagnosis were more common among cases than referents.
progression of native coronary artery disease at 10 years: insights from a randomized study of medical versus surgical therapy for angina. repeat coronary angiography was performed in 42 patients 10 years after randomization to medical (n = 21) or surgical (n = 21) therapy for chronic angina. the native coronary arteries were classified into 15 angiographic segments and 3 arterial trunks for analysis of progression of coronary artery disease. the incidence rate of disease progression in coronary segments was 24% and 28% in medically and surgically treated patients, respectively (p = ns). grafted segments showed a 38% rate of disease progression, which was higher than the 18% rate of for nongrafted segments (p less than 0.001) and the overall rate of 24% for medically treated patients (p less than 0.01). similarly, 29 (94%) of 31 grafted arteries exhibited disease progression compared with 19 (59%) of 32 nongrafted arteries (p less than 0.01) and 42 (67%) of 63 arteries in medically treated patients (p less than 0.01). in grafted vessels, disease progression occurred more often in arteries proximal (84%) to the anastomosis than in arteries distal (16%) to graft insertion (p less than 0.001). progression occurred in 46% of proximal segments compared with 23% of distal segments (p less than 0.02). progression was seen in 23 (55%) of 43 segments with an occluded graft compared with 30 (31%) of 96 segments with a patent graft (p less than 0.02). ten years after randomization, medically and surgically treated patients showed a comparable rate of disease progression in coronary segments. however, surgical therapy appeared to significantly accelerate atherosclerotic progression in the grafted vessels, especially in the proximal portions. occluded grafts also correlated with an adverse effect on disease progression.
the natural history of ultraviolet radiation-induced herpes simplex labialis and response to therapy with peroral and topical formulations of acyclovir. the lips of 196 patients with a history of sun-induced herpes labialis were exposed to experimental ultraviolet radiation (uvr) and treated with acyclovir (acv) or placebo at different times and by different routes. of 98 placebo recipients, 39 (40%) developed 43 lesions inside or within 10 mm of the irradiated zone. the temporal distribution of lesions was bimodal. 11 (26%) occurring within 48 h (immediate) and 32 (72%) 2-7 days after uvr exposure (delayed). prophylactic peroral acv begun 7 days before or 5 min after uvr prevented the development of the delayed but not the immediate lesions (p less than .001). when peroral acv was started 48 h after uvr, delayed lesions developed but were less severe (p = .01-.05). prophylactic topical acv begun 5 min after uvr did not reduce lesion frequency or severity. acv therapy can be efficacious, but some rapidly developing lesions are unresponsive to treatment. this suggests that more than one process may contribute to the pathogenesis of herpes labialis.
health locus of control, gender differences and adjustment to persistent pain. locus of control (loc) beliefs, long thought important in adjustment to persistent pain, were studied among 160 subjects (67 males and 93 females) referred to a comprehensive pain rehabilitation program. the subscale structure of the multidimensional health locus of control (mhlc) was factorially replicated in our sample. three unique mhlc profile clusters were identified for both males and females. among men, cluster assignment was related to age only. the younger male patients reported a stronger internal attributional style. older male patients relied more heavily on both chance and powerful other factors. among women, cluster assignment was related to the use of coping strategies. for example, patients with high internal scores only, reflecting a strong internal orientation towards self-management of health care needs, were more likely to utilize information-seeking, self-blame, and threat minimization coping strategies than patients with high scores on both the internal and powerful other factors. it appears that the presence of both internal and powerful other health attributional styles is associated with less frequent use of cognitive self-management techniques. in understanding the loc scores it is important to rely on pattern analysis of scores. implications for clinical treatment are discussed.
metabolic and health complications of obesity. overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries. in spite of increased interest in fitness, obesity is on the increase in the united states. this is particularly so among children and adolescents. although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases, the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood. such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions. in this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or "defect" in a given system. in the absence of such underlying defects, overnutrition, or obesity, is well tolerated. one of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia, that is, elevations of very low-density lipoprotein (vldl) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol. the major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of vldl. for patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of vldl triglycerides, hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state. for those who have defective clearance of ldl, obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia. both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of vldl, due to obesity, combined with a genetic defect in clearance of vldl or ldl. the mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of hdl cholesterol is uncertain, although it could enhance removal of hdl by an excess of adipose tissue. another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones. the presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones. two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones: a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile. overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol, and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
psychometric and descriptive perspectives of illness impact over the life span. this article describes the development of an instrument that quantifies illness over the course of life. the sample was comprised of 308 women, aged 50 to 70, who were alumnae of a master's program in nursing. each submitted information concerning illness experienced during each decade of life. each time period was then rated multidimensionally (duration, discomfort, interference, threat to life) to reflect the impact of the various conditions and the means by decade (decade impact) were computed. in general, after the first two decades, magnitude of ratings increased with age, indicating greater disease impact. interrater reliability and internal consistency reliability of the scale were high. evidence for construct validity included substantial differences between those with and without specific illness conditions, as well as correlations with hospitalization history and health self-ratings. in cluster analysis of patterns across decades, five distinct patterns emerged into which subjects were grouped.
pharmacologic irreversible narrowing in chronic cerebrovasospasm in rabbits is associated with functional damage. we studied isolated basilar artery segments from a rabbit model of chronic cerebrovasospasm. autologous blood placed around the basilar artery of rabbits killed 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 9 days later caused narrowing of the segments with a biphasic time course. the first (immediate) phase was reversed by intra-arterial papaverine; the second phase exhibited an increasing component of narrowing that was papaverine-insensitive. based on the passive force/length curves, basilar artery segments became increasingly stiff over 9 days. by contrast, the segments' contractility decreased. responses of the basilar artery segments were greater over the first few days, but then became less than that of saline-injected controls. contractions in response to norepinephrine and potassium were reduced. endothelium-based acetylcholine-induced vasodilation progressively diminished, as did the response to sympathetic nerve stimulation. there was a negative correlation between artery wall stiffness and contractility. the papaverine-insensitive component of angiographic narrowing correlated directly with loss of contractility and with artery wall stiffness. these results are consistent with the conclusion that increased artery wall stiffness is a primary determining factor in the arterial narrowing of chronic cerebrovasospasm.
extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy for complicated bile duct stones. today, common bile duct stones are extracted endoscopically. after endoscopic sphincterotomy, nearly 90% of all stones can be removed with a dormia basket or a mechanical lithotripter. problems are encountered if there are larger stones or a duct stenosis. new conservative therapies do serve as an alternative to surgical intervention for those few patients in whom endoscopic measures have failed. stone fragmentation can be achieved by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, and remaining fragments can be removed endoscopically. so far, authors of most reports on the successful disintegration of common bile duct stones used the dornier lithotripter. stone localization is thus achieved with x-rays, and the shock waves are generated by an underwater spark discharge. we report on our experiences and results with extracorporeal piezoelectric shock wave lithotripsy (epl) in 19 patients with complicated bile duct stones. with this lithotripter, stones are visualized by ultrasound, and shock waves are produced by a piezoelectric acoustic generator. fragmentation was achieved in 84.2%, and complete stone removal in 78.9%. these results show that piezoelectric lithotripsy is also a useful method for the treatment of complicated bile duct stones, as has already been proved for the electrohydraulic- and electromagnetic-generated shock waves systems. however, the renunciation of general anesthesia and the need for analgesia or sedation in only 25% of the treatments render this lithotripter system attractive, especially for elderly and frail patients.
incidence of prominent corneal nerves in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a. we studied the increased visibility of corneal nerves inside an 8-mm diameter central corneal area in 14 patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a, one patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b, five patients with nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma, ten patients with anterior keratoconus, and ten normal subjects. we used a grading system (grade 0 through grade 4) for nerve visibility based on slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination and photographic documentation. all 20 normal eyes showed either grade 0 or grade 1, which indicated no pathologic thickening of corneal nerves. sixteen of the 28 eyes (57%) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a, however, were evaluated as grade 2 or higher, which indicated thickened corneal nerves. the incidence of high nerve visibility in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a was significantly greater compared to normal eyes (p less than .0001), anterior keratoconus (p less than .0001), and nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma (p = .0012). furthermore, eight of the 28 eyes (29%) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a showed markedly prominent corneal nerves (grade 3 and 4), a prominence similar to those seen in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b. there was no definite relationship among prominent nerve, age of the patient, and occurrence of pheochromocytoma. these findings suggest that over half of all patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a show corneal nerves pathologically thickened to different degrees.
mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases: 11 years of experience. mechanical ventilation (mv) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure (arf). the aim of this work was to review all episodes of mv in a medical intensive care unit (micu) during the 11-year period 1976-1986. four per cent (n = 1008) of 24,899 admissions to the micu were treated with mv. the mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 +/- 18 years, and obviously it increased during the period of study. the average duration of mv was 4.7 d. micu mortality, hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to mv were 33%, 38% and 46%, respectively. the mortality rate did not change during the study period. cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates, 75 and 79%, respectively, whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose (n = 313) was only 2%. the results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of mv, and we conclude that the effects of mv remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients. improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring, as well as continued research directed at the causes of arf, are equally important in reducing the mortality in arf.
piroxicam decreases postirradiation colonic neoplasia in the rat. this study evaluated the effects of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent piroxicam on chronic radiation proctitis in the rat. forty female wistar rats received a 2250-cgy dose of irradiation to the distal 2 cm of the colon. twenty received piroxicam 8.0 mg/kg orally 30 minutes before exposure and 24 hours after exposure; 20 rats served as irradiated controls. all animals were evaluated by colonoscopy 1 and 3 weeks postexposure and every third week until death or killing at 1 year. at killing, colons were removed for light microscopic examination. one year postirradiation results showed no differences in mortality, vascular changes, acute inflammation, colitis cystica profunda, or rectal stricture between the control and piroxicam-treated groups. however, at 1 year postirradiation the control group demonstrated neoplasia in 15 of 19 animals compared with eight of 20 animals in the piroxicam-treated group. the first endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasm occurred at 15 weeks postirradiation in one control irradiated rat whereas the first evidence of endoscopic neoplasm in the piroxicam-treated group did not occur until 36 weeks postirradiation. histologic examination documented a tendency toward a greater presence of adenocarcinomas in the control group compared with the piroxicam-treated group. the authors conclude that piroxicam treatment significantly decreased the incidence of colonic neoplasia in general as well as delayed the endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasia in rats after pelvic irradiation.
meningiomas involving the clivus: a six-year experience with 41 patients. a series of 41 meningiomas involving the clivus operated on from july 1983 to january 1990 is reported. the presenting symptoms and signs of these patients were similar to those reported previously. all the patients were evaluated by pre- and postoperative thin-section, high-resolution computed tomography using soft tissue and bone algorithms. most of the patients also underwent magnetic resonance imaging. the regions of the clivus involved by tumor were divided into upper, middle, or lower regions on the basis of anatomical landmarks. the diameter of the tumor was measured in three axes, and a tumor volume and a tumor equivalent diameter were computed to categorize tumors as small, medium, large, or giant types. there were 9 medium, 27 large, and 5 giant tumors in this series. some simple and some complex operative approaches were employed to effect tumor removal. large and giant tumors often required more than one operative approach to remove the tumor. intraoperative technical difficulties included tumor consistency, vascularity, dissection from the brain stem, and vascular and cranial nerve encasement. postoperative computed tomographic scans documented total excision in 32 patients (78%). residual tumor remained in the clival or cavernous sinus areas. these patients were either being observed, or were treated with gamma knife radiosurgery. there was one operative death due to pneumonia (2%), and three patients (7%) suffered permanent major neurological changes, presumably due to vascular occlusions in the posterior circulation. in the follow-up period, which ranged from 3 to 76 months, 2 patients (6%) with tumors that had appeared to be totally excised experienced recurrence. these patients were treated by a second operation, alone or in combination with radiation therapy. two patients who had subtotal excisions (25%) had evidence of regrowth. in 2 patients, tumor growth continued despite gamma knife radiosurgery or external beam radiotherapy.
acute gastroenteritis in infants under 6 months old. sixty two babies under the age of 6 months who were admitted with gastroenteritis completed a study of gradual refeeding compared with abrupt refeeding after a period of rehydration. there was no difference in the incidence of recurrence of diarrhoea due to lactose intolerance, effect on weight, or duration of hospital stay. twenty six babies (42%) had recurrence of diarrhoea after refeeding, all of whom settled with the introduction of a lactose free soya based formula. well nourished babies under 6 months of age with mild to moderately severe gastroenteritis can be fed immediately with full strength milk feeds after rehydration. the introduction of a lactose free soya based preparation may provide an alternative to repeated attempts at regrading with cows' milk feeds in those patients with lactose intolerance.
gi symptoms, function, and psychophysiological arousal in dysmenorrheic women. in a previous study, gastrointestinal (gi) symptoms and stool characteristics were found to be influenced by menstrual cycle phase. the current study was designed to replicate initial work regarding gi symptoms and stool characteristics and to explore the relationships between gi symptoms, stool characteristics, ovarian hormone levels, and indicators of psychophysiological arousal. fifty women (dysmenorrheic, n = 22; nondysmenorrheic, n = 28) maintained a daily dairy for recording stool characteristics, gi symptoms, and daily anxiety level. first morning void urine specimens for catecholamine assays and serum samples for ovarian hormone and cortisol determinations were obtained at menses, follicular, and luteal phases. results showed menstrual cycle-related differences in stool characteristics and report of gi symptoms, with the greatest changes occurring at menses in the total sample. dysmenorrheic women reported higher levels of all gi symptoms at menses as compared to nondysmenorrheic women. in addition, cycle-related differences in serum cortisol, urine catecholamines, and report of anxiety were also noted, particularly in dysmenorrheic women. however, looser stools and gi symptoms at menses were not correlated with absolute levels of ovarian hormones or indicators of psychophysiological arousal.
unusual variants of adrenal pseudocysts with intracystic fat, myelolipomatous metaplasia, and metastatic carcinoma. five previously unreported cases of adrenal pseudocysts are described that demonstrate a wider range of histologic appearances than has been previously recognized in these lesions. one pseudocyst removed from an asymptomatic 59-year-old female contained intracystic nests of cytologically malignant cells of unknown origin. workup revealed a left breast mass, which on biopsy showed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with neoplastic cells that were cytologically similar to those found within the cyst contents. four other pseudocysts are described with variable numbers of intracystic vascular structures and benign adrenal cortical cells. in addition, intracystic mature adipose tissue was observed in all four cases, with myelolipomatous metaplasia found in one. awareness of the wide histologic variability of these lesions should improve diagnostic accuracy and allow distinction from adrenocortical neoplasia and myelolipoma.
fatty liver hepatitis (steatohepatitis) and obesity: an autopsy study with analysis of risk factors. steatohepatitis (fatty liver hepatitis), histologically identical to alcoholic disease, occurs in some obese patients after jejunoileal bypass. a similar lesion occurs rarely in obese patients without bypass surgery, but the risk factors are poorly understood. hepatic steatosis, steatohepatitis and fibrosis were sought in 351 apparently nonalcoholic patients at autopsy and various risk factors were evaluated. incidence of steatosis and steatohepatitis correlated with the degree of obesity. steatohepatitis was found in 18.5% of markedly obese patients and 2.7% of lean patients. additional risk factors for steatohepatitis were type ii diabetes, weight loss in the preterminal period shortly before death and intravenous glucose therapy in the last week of life. severe fibrosis was found in 13.8% of markedly obese patients and in 6.6% of lean patients; this difference was largely explained by the higher prevalence of diabetes in obese groups. the risk factors defined in this study are known to be associated with abnormalities of free fatty acid metabolism. obesity, type ii diabetes and intravenous glucose therapy are associated with hyperinsulinemia, which may inhibit fatty acid oxidation. obesity and weight loss increase the presentation of fatty acids to the liver. similar metabolic changes may occur in obese patients after jejunoileal bypass surgery. thus this study supports the hypothesis that fatty acids have a role in the hepatocellular necrosis found in some obese individuals.
benign thyroid adenoma causing recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy in a child. the standard teaching is that only malignant thyroid masses produce recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy. an unusual exception to this rule is reported.
hmpao-spect imaging resembling alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (melas). single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (hmpao) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (melas). reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions (resembling alzheimer type dementia) and in the right parietal lobe.
new insights into the causes of cancer. recent advances in molecular biologic analysis have led to major new insights concerning the genetic mechanisms underlying the development of cancer. this article examines the current state of our understanding of the genetic basis underlying the possible mechanisms of carcinogenesis and metastasis. the nature of the genetic lesions found in some cancer-causing genes, cancer-inhibiting genes, growth factor genes, and metastasis genes is discussed, as is the impact that these may have on clinical oncology.
regeneration of myocardial phosphocreatine in pigs despite continued moderate ischemia. the effects of 1 hour of mild and moderate reductions in coronary blood flow on myocardial high-energy phosphate levels were evaluated. thirty anesthetized pigs were instrumented with left anterior descending arterial and venous catheters, crystals for instantaneous wall thickness, and a fluid-filled occluder. measurement of myocardial blood flow was performed with microspheres, and a series of myocardial biopsies also was performed. in 10 pigs, overall coronary blood flow was lowered by 22%, with a fall in subendocardial-to-subepicardial flow ratio from 1.11 to 0.54 and in wall thickening from 33% to 15%. subendocardial flow fell 48%. coronary blood flow and thickening were constant during 1 hour of ischemia. phosphocreatine (mumol/g wet wt) in the subendocardial third of the ischemic zone fell from 7.6 to 3.8 at 5 minutes of ischemia (p less than 0.005 versus control) and returned to normal (7.9) at 60 minutes (p = ns), despite ongoing ischemia. subendocardial atp (mumol/g wet wt) fell slowly from 4.3 and leveled off at 2.1 at 60 minutes of ischemia (p less than 0.001 versus control). similar regeneration of phosphocreatine was found in seven additional pigs, with a 43% transmural reduction in coronary blood flow and a 66% reduction in subendocardial flow. no significant changes in atp and phosphocreatine were noted in two different control groups (n = 13 pigs). the regeneration of phosphocreatine despite ongoing ischemia and low atp levels was not related to changes in myocardial oxygen demand or consumption, or in regional function during the period of ischemia. this may reflect 1) a successful downregulation of the energy needs of the ischemic myocardium to maintain cell viability, or 2) a metabolic abnormality in the ability of the cells to produce atp primarily or by use of phosphocreatine.
home treatment for acute psychiatric illness objective--to determine the factors influencing the successful outcome of community treatment for severe acute psychiatric illnesses that are traditionally treated in hospital. design--all patients from a single electoral ward who were either admitted to hospital or treated at home over a two year period (1 october 1987 to 30 september 1989) were included in the study and their case notes audited. the second year of the study is reported. setting--electoral ward of sparkbrook, birmingham. subjects--99 patients aged 16-65 with severe acute psychiatric illness. results--65 patients were managed by home treatment alone; 34 required admission to hospital. the location of treatment was significantly (all p less than 0.05) influenced by social characteristics of the patients (marital state, age (in men), ethnicity, and living alone) and by characteristics of the referral (occurring out of hours; assessment taking place at hospital or police station). dsm-iii-r diagnosis was more weakly associated with outcome. violence during the episode was significantly related to admission, although deliberate self harm was not. conclusions--home treatment is feasible for most patients with acute psychiatric illness. a 24 hour on call assessment service increases the likelihood of success because admission is determined more strongly by social characteristics of the patient and the referral than by illness factors. admission will still be required for some patients. a locally based mental health resource centre, a 24 hour on call service, an open referral system, and an active follow up policy increase the effectiveness of a home treatment service.
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas. as the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas remains unclear, the tumor clonal composition of these common neoplasms was studied. clonality was determined in female patients by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the x-chromosome genes hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase and phosphoglycerate kinase in conjunction with their respective methylation patterns. peripheral lymphocyte dna was screened from 62 female patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma. eleven patients were heterozygous for the bgli site on pgk, 4 for the bamhi site on hprt, and 1 patient for both sites. of these 16 patients, 3 had acromegaly, 4 had cushing's disease, 7 had hyperprolactinemia, and 2 were clinically nonfunctional. after surgery, morphological study, including immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of the pathological specimens, allowed a direct comparison between clonality and tumor cell type. control fresh normal pituitary tissue was found to be polyclonal. the following tumors were monoclonal: all 3 somatotroph adenomas, 4 of 4 lactotroph tumors, 3 of 4 corticotroph cell adenomas, a gonadotroph adenoma, and a nonsecretory adenoma. a mixed plurihormonal adenoma was polyclonal, as were 2 tumors consisting of adenomatous lactotrophs interspersed with nontumorous adenohypophyseal pituitary tissue and one corticotroph adenoma mixed with normal pituitary tissue. functional pituitary adenomas derived from somatotrophs, corticotrophs, or lactotrophs and nonsecretory tumors are monoclonal in nature, suggesting that somatic cell mutations precede clonal expansion of these cells and play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis.
modulation of n-nitrosomethylurea-induced mammary tumor promotion by dietary fiber and fat. a test of the anticancer effects of dietary fiber was conducted using the n-nitrosomethylurea (nmu)-induced rat mammary tumor model. starting 3 days after nmu treatment, four different groups of f344 rats (30 rats in each group) were fed as follows: group 1 received a high-fat diet; group 2, a high-fat plus fiber diet (soft white wheat bran, 10% wt/wt); group 3, a low-fat diet; and group 4, a low-fat plus fiber diet. the rats remained on these diets for 15 weeks. tumor incidence in group 1 was 90% compared with 66% in group 2 (p less than .001). tumor incidence in group 3 was 63% compared with 47% in group 4 (p greater than .4). these results show that supplemental dietary fiber exerts an inhibitory effect on the promotional phase of nmu-induced mammary carcinogenesis in rats when fed a high-fat but not a low-fat diet. to test whether fiber may exert its antipromoting effect by reducing circulating estrogens, serum 17 beta-estradiol was assayed. no changes were observed in serum 17 beta-estradiol levels among the four groups, suggesting that the protective effect of fiber in this animal model is not mediated by a fiber-induced reduction of circulating 17 beta-estradiol.
congenital dilatation of the bile duct in 100 instances and its relationship with anomalous junction [published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 mar;172(3):246] congenital dilatation of the bile duct (cdbd) or choledochal cyst has been demonstrated to be associated with an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system. multifarious clinical signs and symptoms of cdbd have been shown to be closely related with the presence of this anomalous junction. in the present study, 100 instances of cdbd treated surgically at our institutions during a 30 year period were classified into two types according to the morphologic features of dilatation of the bile duct; there were 77 instances of the cystic type and 23 of the cylindric type. morphologic features of the lesion, clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory findings in these 100 instances were clinically analyzed. in almost all of the patients who were less than one year of age, the disease was of the cystic type and patients presented with either a palpable mass or jaundice as the main symptom. in patients more than one year of age, the disease was of either the cystic or cylindric type. a history of episodes of characteristic abdominal pain accompanied by elevated levels of serum amylase was present in 70 of the patients with the cystic type of disease and in all of the patients with the cylindric type. histologic sections from the patients showed glandular formation with chronic inflammation, possibly a result of refluxed activated pancreatic juice; in contrast, histologic sections from the remaining patients of all ages showed only thickening of the fibrous layer. thus, such variable morphologic features and clinical signs and symptoms in cdbd are highly dependent on two factors--the age at onset and the reflux of pancreatic juice into the bile duct through the common channel.
chordoma: a 20-year clinicopathologic review of the experience at groote schuur hospital, cape town. eighteen chordomas (11 females and 7 males) were seen over a 20-year period; 61% of the tumors occurred in the sphenoid region. the youngest patient was 3 years old and had a family history of chordoma. histologically, the tumors were divided into classical (epithelial) and chondroid variants, which in this series, had no effect on outcome. follow-up on 12 patients ranged from 3 to 170 months, and they were treated with various combinations of surgery and radiotherapy. one patient was administered the neutron beam and died after 94 months. the mean survival of this series is 73.4 months, with a survival rate of 50% (6 out of 12 patients alive). surgical resection offers the best chance of survival, but chordomas have a propensity to metastasize, hence have a poor prognosis.
status epilepticus in infancy and childhood. status epilepticus implies a prolonged seizure or recurrent seizures with persistent decreased consciousness, lasting at least 30 minutes. both convulsive and nonconvulsive forms exist, either of which may lead to death or additional neurologic deficit. therapy involves careful supportive care plus some combination of benzodiazepines, phenytoin, or phenobarbital. the outcome depends first on the etiology and second on the rapidity with which seizures are controlled.
therapy for acute infectious diarrhea in children. this article reviews current recommendations of therapy with antidiarrheal compounds and antimicrobial agents for acute infectious diarrhea in children. in most infants and children with acute infectious diarrhea, treatment with antidiarrheal compounds is not indicated. many of these compounds interfere with identification of enteropathogens in stool specimens, and the antimotility class has an overdose potential. antimicrobial therapy is given to reduce symptoms and to prevent the spread of infection by decreasing fecal shedding of organisms. although effective therapy is not available for patients with enteric viruses, cryptosporidium, and microsporidium, therapy is useful for children with amebiasis, antimicrobial-associated colitis, cholera, giardiasis, various forms of escherichia coli diarrhea and salmonella disease, isosporiasis, shigellosis, and strongyloidiasis. for several other conditions, antimicrobial therapy is of questionable benefit (infection with campylobacter jejuni or yersinia enterocolitica, intestinal salmonellosis and enterohemorrhagic e. coli infection). compounds such as the fluoroquinolones, which are effective in the treatment of acute infectious diarrhea in adults, are not approved for use in children because of potential side effects. many bacterial, viral, and parasitic organisms cause acute infectious diarrhea; appropriate antimicrobial therapy requires the accurate, rapid identification of the offending enteropathogen. in children with an underlying illness such as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, manifestations may be prolonged, severe, and recurrent despite appropriate therapy.
passive smoking and heart disease. epidemiology, physiology, and biochemistry. the evidence that ets increases risk of death from heart disease is similar to that which existed in 1986 when the us surgeon general concluded that ets caused lung cancer in healthy nonsmokers. there are 10 epidemiological studies, conducted in a variety of locations, that reflect about a 30% increase in risk of death from ischemic heart disease or myocardial infarction among nonsmokers living with smokers. the larger studies also demonstrate a significant dose-response effect, with greater exposure to ets associated with greater risk of death from heart disease. these epidemiological studies are complemented by a variety of physiological and biochemical data that show that ets adversely affects platelet function and damages arterial endothelium in a way that increases the risk of heart disease. moreover, ets, in realistic exposures, also exerts significant adverse effects on exercise capability of both healthy people and those with heart disease by reducing the body's ability to deliver and utilize oxygen. in animal experiments, ets also depresses cellular respiration at the level of mitochondria. the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in ets also accelerate, and may initiate, the development of atherosclerotic plaque. of note, the cardiovascular effects of ets appear to be different in nonsmokers and smokers. nonsmokers appear to be more sensitive to ets than do smokers, perhaps because some of the affected physiological systems are sensitive to low doses of the compounds in ets, then saturate, and also perhaps because of physiological adaptions smokers undergo as a result of long-term exposure to the toxins in cigarette smoke. in any event, these findings indicate that, for cardiovascular disease, it is incorrect to compute "cigarette equivalents" for passive exposure to ets and then to extrapolate the effects of this exposure on nonsmokers from the effects of direct smoking on smokers. these results suggest that heart disease is an important consequence of exposure to ets. the combination of epidemiological studies with demonstration of physiological changes with exposure to ets, together with biochemical evidence that elements of ets have significant adverse effects on the cardiovascular system, leads to the conclusion that ets causes heart disease. this increase in risk translates into about 10 times as many deaths from ets-induced heart disease as lung cancer; these deaths contribute greatly to the estimated 53,000 deaths annually from passive smoking. this toll makes passive smoking the third leading preventable cause of death in the united states today, behind active smoking and alcohol.
potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. minimizing the danger. patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias are at an increased risk of sudden death. antiarrhythmic drugs, with the exception of beta blockers and possibly amiodarone, have not been particularly effective in reducing mortality. beta blockers have been used successfully to treat survivors of myocardial infarction, including patients with significant impairment of ventricular function. evidence to date suggests that use of low-dose amiodarone may be appropriate for selected patients with chronic heart failure and potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias.
diagnostic value of anti-neuronal antibodies for paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system. the diagnostic value of the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies in serum was examined in 21 patients suspected of paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system (ns) (group 1) and was compared to three control groups; group 2: 25 patients with a neurological disease, without cancer and no sign of paraneoplastic disorder; group 3: 27 patients with neurological disease and cancer and no signs of a paraneoplastic disorder; group 4: 94 patients with cancer and without neurological disease. in group 1, anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies were detected in eight patients (38%), in titres from 1:1000 to 1:32,000. a small cell lung cancer was present in six patients, ovarian cancer in one patient and in one patient no tumour could be detected. the neurological symptoms preceded a diagnosis of cancer in five out of eight patients. anti-neuronal antibodies were found in the serum of two out of 94 patients (2%) from control group 3 but not in serum from any of the other control groups. these data indicate a moderate sensitivity of 38%, but a high specificity of 98.6% (95% confidence interval 95.5-99.8%) for the presence of anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies if a paraneoplastic ns disorder is suspected.
parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response in experimental acute pancreatitis. to determine changes in parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response caused by acute pancreatitis before the development of systemic toxic conditions, experimental acute pancreatitis was induced in rats with a choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet. after 7 days, the rats were weighed and bled, and one kidney was assayed for 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity. several manifestations of pancreatitis were observed in rats given the diet: weight loss (from 29.6 to 26.3 g vs that for control rats, from 29 to 52.8 g) and lower dietary intake (15.5 vs 47 g per rat per 7 days). serum amylase levels fell from 1794 to 350 u/l in rats given the choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet compared with levels of 1800 to 2100 u/l in control rats. the pancreases of rats given the choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet showed degeneration, necrosis, and hemorrhaging. serum levels of calcium, phosphorus, chloride, and parathyroid hormone did not change significantly throughout the experiment. renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity was higher than in control rats (8.9 +/- 0.8 vs 7.6 +/- 0.6 fmol/mg of kidney per minute). acute pancreatitis in this experimental animal model does not alter serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone or reduce target organ responsiveness to the hormone.
aortobronchial fistula after an aortic operation. a 71-year-old man with a postoperative aortobronchial fistula was successfully treated. the fistula occurred between the left lower lobe and the descending thoracic aorta, to which a distal anastomosis of a temporary bypass graft had been placed during thoracic aortic aneurysmectomy 3 years before. for saving patients with this complication, early surgical treatment during episodes of intermittent hemoptysis is important. the use of an omentum pedicle flap for the isolation of the suture line is a important adjunct.
trabecular or merkel's cell carcinoma. two cases of trabecular cell carcinoma of the skin are presented. the clinical presentation and behavior, and the histologic findings, of the tumor are described. surgical excision of the primary lesion with regional lymph node dissection, if indicated, is the treatment of choice. distant metastasis is treated by local irradiation.
geriatric diabetic nephropathy: an analysis of renal referral in patients age 60 or older. we report a series of 33 consecutive hospitalized geriatric diabetic patients who were referred for evaluation of diabetic nephropathy, defined as proteinuria greater than or equal to 1 g/d (1,000 mg/24 h) or a serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 177 mumol/d (greater than or equal to 2 mg/dl). the study population was 60 years old or older (mean age, 68 +/- 6 years), was comprised mainly of women (24 of 33, 72.7%), and was predominantly black (25 of 33, 75.8%). all patients had type ii diabetes. a family history of diabetes in parent or sibling was elicited in 24 (72.7%) patients. there were eight patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis and 25 with less severe nephropathy (mean proteinuria, 2.7 g/d [2,700 mg/24 h]; mean creatinine clearance, 0.57 ml-s [34 ml/min]). cardiac disorders were noted in the majority of patients: congestive failure in 20 (60.6%), myocardial infarction in eight (24.2%), and active angina in five (15.2%). other comorbid diseases were present in both hemodialysis patients and the subset of nondialyzed azotemic-proteinuric patients, and consisted of peripheral neuropathy in 31 (93.9%), gastroparesis in 16 (48.5%), retinopathy in 28 (84.8%), and legal blindness in 11 (33%). we conclude that geriatric diabetic nephropathy in type ii diabetes is similar in presentation and severity of comorbid extrarenal complications to the syndrome described in younger adults. this inference must be tempered by both the small size and the limitation imposed by the demographics of the study population, which is predominantly composed of black patients receiving treatment at inner city hospitals.
a clonal cd4-positive t-cell line established from the blood of a patient with sezary syndrome. the reported inability to establish long-term t-cell lines from the blood of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma patients with circulating neoplastic t cells has hindered the development of an in vitro system to investigate sezary syndrome. we have established a rapidly proliferating t-cell line from the peripheral blood of a patient with sezary syndrome, which expresses a mature helper t-cell phenotype and contains cytogenetic abnormalities and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements identical to those in the patient's blood. the method of establishment and characteristics of this line are described.
high risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease. although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90% effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease, it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued. to address this question, we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years (range 5 to 12 years). before the transfusions were discontinued, patients were examined by cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging of the head, neuropsychologic testing, electroencephalography, and a complete neurologic examination. within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped, 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event. three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected. two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage, including one on the contralateral side of original involvement. an additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes. of the four remaining patients, three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped. the studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke. the risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10% in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy (p = 0.002). this adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised.
influence of clinical and hemodynamic variables on risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass. the influence of 45 variables on risk of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia was evaluated by univariate and multivariate analysis of data from 800 consecutive patients who underwent isolated coronary artery bypass during a 6-year interval. postoperative supraventricular arrhythmias occurred in 186 patients (23%) but did not contribute to any of the six early deaths (30-day mortality rate, 0.8%). mean (+/- standard deviation) length of hospital stay was longer (9.8 +/- 5.7 versus 8.3 +/- 3.5 days; p less than 0.0001) and mean age was older (65 versus 60 years; p less than 0.002) in patients with postoperative supraventricular tachycardia than in those with regular rhythm. risk of supraventricular tachycardia was increased in patients with a history of atrial arrhythmias (45% versus 22%; p less than 0.002) or premature atrial contractions on the preoperative electrocardiogram (48% versus 22%; p less than 0.002). multiple logistic regression analysis identified age 65 years or more, history of atrial arrhythmia or preoperative premature atrial contractions, and preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more as independent predictors of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia. six percent of patients converted to sinus rhythm spontaneously; 82% of patients converted within 1.1 +/- 1.9 days after onset of supraventricular tachycardia on treatment with digoxin or beta-adrenergic blocking drugs or both. only 10% of patients with supraventricular tachycardia required electrical cardioversion. we conclude that the risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass is influenced by patient-related variables and is effectively managed by conventional therapy. prophylactic treatment should be reserved for elderly patients, especially those who have atrial arrhythmias or have preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more.
valproate metabolism during hepatotoxicity associated with the drug. plasma concentrations of valproate and certain of its metabolites and their patterns of excretion in urine are described in three adults who developed hepatotoxicity during treatment of epilepsy with sodium valproate. one patient also developed a degree of reversible renal insufficiency, whilst another may have had associated infectious mononucleosis. all three cases showed evidence of impaired mitochondrial beta-oxidation of valproate. in one the impairment was at the stage catalysed by fatty acyl-coa dehydrogenase, in another at the stage catalysed by 3-hydroxyacyl-coa dehydrogenase and in the third at the stage catalysed by enoyl-coa hydratase and possibly also at the next stage catalysed by 3-hydroxyacyl-coa dehydrogenase. the impaired beta-oxidation meant that valproate metabolism was diverted into various alternative pathways. plasma concentrations of the suspected hepatotoxic metabolite 4-en-valproate were normal for the valproate-treated population in all cases. by analogy with certain spontaneous and acquired human disorders of branched chain amino acid metabolism, it is suggested that valproate-associated hepatotoxicity may represent the consequences of a valproate overload on a limited mitochondrial beta-oxidation capacity, causing accumulation of a toxic product of endogenous branched chain amino acid metabolism.
longitudinal study of diagnoses in children of women with unipolar and bipolar affective disorder. school-age children of unipolar depressed, bipolar, chronically medically ill, or normal women were diagnosed every 6 months for up to 3 years. offspring of unipolar women had the highest rates of disorder at all evaluations, but children of bipolar and medically ill mothers also experienced significant rates of disorder. observing diagnoses from both past lifetime and prospective follow-up assessments, it appeared that most children who had diagnoses had onsets in preadolescence and continued a chronic or intermittent course of disorder. thus, risk to offspring of ill mothers is not transitory and indicates a pernicious course that commonly includes effective disorders alone or in combination with behavior and anxiety disorders.
recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel. recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel is reported in two patients. this was due to traumatic attenuation of the flexor carpi ulnaris retinaculum. the mechanism of injury in both patients was a fall with the shoulder abducted and the elbow acutely flexed. both patients had relief of their neurologic symptoms following anterior submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve.
tracheoesophageal anastomosis for intractable aspiration pneumonia. permanent tracheostomy and tracheoesophageal anastomosis were performed as a means of surgical intervention for the treatment of intractable aspiration pneumonia. conventional methods of tracheoesophageal anastomosis have entailed various problems. the improved method devised by us uses the special histological features and enables safe and reliable anastomosis. by this method, the tracheal perichondrium is retained and the strength of the anastomosed portion of the trachea is maintained, the failure of sutures due to tension on the anastomotic site being prevented. also, reanastomosis can be performed after the cure of primary disease.
extrapyramidal features in advanced down's syndrome: clinical evaluation and family history. extrapyramidal, frontal release, and other neurological signs were studied in 54 demented and non-demented patients with down's syndrome (ds). fourteen patients were demented and five showed extrapyramidal signs, mainly of the rigid-hypokinetic spectrum and similar to parkinsonian features in advanced alzheimer's disease (ad). none of the non-demented patients had parkinsonian signs. the mean age of the demented ds patients with extrapyramidal signs was significantly higher than that of the patients without. frontal release signs were present in demented and non-demented patients. a questionnaire showed no increase in either the proportion of early- or senile-onset dementia or parkinsonism among first- and second-degree relatives of ds patients. parkinsonian signs appear to be present at a lower frequency in ds than in advanced ad. a speculative hypothesis about a gene dosage effect of cu/zn-superoxide dismutase in preventing toxic radical formation in the substantia nigra of ds patients is presented.
epidermal dendritic s100 positive cells in necrobiosis lipoidica and granuloma annulare. using an antibody to s100 protein, the number of dendritic cells above the basal layer in the epidermis was assessed in necrobiosis lipoidica and granuloma annulare. a statistically significantly higher number of these cells was found within the epidermis in necrobiosis lipoidica compared with granuloma annulare and normal skin. the numbers were similar to those seen in sarcoidosis and tuberculous reactions in the skin, which raises the possibility of an immune pathogenesis for necrobiosis lipoidica.
left ventricular aneurysm secondary to behcet's disease. a 16-year-old boy with behcet's disease who was seen with thrombophlebitis of the leg was found to have coronary artery occlusion with postinfarction left ventricular aneurysm. recurrent femoral artery aneurysms and orogenital ulceration developed in him. the diagnostic features together with successful treatment of this patient and a discussion of behcet's syndrome are presented.
vaginitis emphysematosa. a report of four cases. it has been hypothesized that vaginitis emphysematosa is a manifestation of trichomonal or gardnerella infection. in support of this etiologic concept, four cases of the disorder are described showing the apparent curative effect of treating the associated infection. the linkage of these and other reported cases with conditions of impaired immunity suggests that immunologic factors are involved in the pathogenesis.
dislocation after primary arthroplasty for subcapital fracture of the hip. wide range of movement is a risk factor. dislocation is the most frequent serious complication following total hip replacement for subcapital femoral fracture. we report a prospective study, using matched groups, which compared the range of hip movement following hip replacement for arthritis and for fracture. the range of movement was significantly greater in the fracture group. we suggest that this is a predisposing factor for dislocation.
the importance of cytogenetic studies in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia. purpose: the prognostic importance of pretreatment bone marrow cytogenetic studies in adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia treated at a single institution, with an identical treatment program, is described. patients and methods: a total of 105 patients with a documented morphologic diagnosis of acute lymphocytic leukemia were reviewed for the purpose of this analysis. all patients had an extensive workup at presentation, and cytogenetic analysis was performed in 103 patients, using the giemsa banding technique with trypsin pretreatment on 24-hour cultured cells. results: the specific cytogenetic classification in the 103 patients who had the karyotypic analysis was as follows: diploid 27%; philadelphia chromosome-positive 13%; hyperdiploid 12%; b-cell karyotype 6%; 6q- and 14q+ abnormalities 4%; pseudodiploid 8%; hypodiploid 2%; and insufficient metaphases 28%. b-cell, 6q- or 14q+, and philadelphia chromosome-positive karyotypes tended to correlate with other known negative prognostic factors. patients with diploid, hyperdiploid, pseudodiploid, and hypodiploid karyotypes or with insufficient metaphases could be combined into one group with a favorable prognosis. in this group, the remission rate with induction chemotherapy was 89%, the median complete remission duration was 26 months, and the median survival was 25 months, with a 3-year survival rate of 45%. patients with philadelphia chromosome-positive, b-cell, and 6q- or 14q+ abnormalities collectively had an unfavorable prognosis. their response rate to induction chemotherapy was 65%, the median response duration was 7 months, and the median survival was 8 months, with a 3-year survival rate of less than 10%. conclusion: we conclude that the pretreatment bone marrow karyotype is an important part of the evaluation of adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia and provides significant prognostic information.
cytomegalovirus in a macerated second trimester fetus: persistent viral inclusions on light and electron microscopy. the macerated stillborn fetus represents at least one third of all perinatal deaths. microscopic examination of these specimens is often unrewarding. we have reported a clinically unsuspected cytomegalovirus infection in a second trimester macerated fetus. cells suggestive of cmv inclusions were identified by light microscopy, but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of viral infection and proved valuable in making the diagnosis even though necrosis was severe.
the origin of epidermal melanocytes. implications for the histogenesis of nevi and melanomas. among the most venerable concepts in dermatopathology is unna's 19th century notion of abtropfung, ie, that melanocytes drop off from the epidermis to the dermis during the histogenesis of melanocytic tumors. paradoxically, however, unna's basic premise of an epidermal origin for melanocytes has been seriously questioned for over 40 years, based on experimental evidence favoring a neural crest origin for melanocytes. recent work has strengthened the evidence for a neural crest origin of epidermal melanocytes, and it has been suggested that the concept of abtropfung be replaced by the concept of hochsteigerung. the concept of hochsteigerung holds that melanocytes migrate up from the dermis into the epidermis-not only in normal development, but also during normal tissue maintenance. it now seems likely that the precursor of melanocytes, in both normal and abnormal differentiation, may not be a melanoblast (a primitive cell committed to melanocytic differentiation) but rather a pluripotential cell. although axon-investing schwann cells have been the traditional focus as the closest relative of the epidermal melanocyte, recent studies suggest that another nerve sheath cell, the perineural cell, might be a better candidate. these concepts have profound implications for the histogenesis of melanocytic nevi and melanomas.
hyaluronan in pleural effusions and in serum. it has been suggested that a high level of hyaluronan (hyaluronic acid, hya) in pleural fluid is an indicator of malignant mesothelioma. in 78 consecutive patients with pleural effusion of various causes the hya concentration was measured in pleural fluid samples and in serum. nine patients had malignant pleural mesothelioma, and in three of them the hya level in pleural fluid was 100 mg/l or more. in 42 patients with effusions due to metastatic malignancy, the mean hya in the pleural fluid was 75 mg/l, and in five the hya level was above 100 mg/l. cardiac insufficiency caused the effusion in 11 patients, of whom two had a level above 100 mg/l in pleural fluid. four patients had a serologically confirmed viral infection and had hya levels in pleural fluid of 8, 157, 335, and 554 mg/l, respectively. one patient had postinfectious effusion with an hya level in pleural exudate of 748 mg/l, the highest in this investigation. two patients had benign asbestos pleural effusions, and both had high pleural hya levels (256 and 490 mg/l, respectively). the serum hya values were much lower than in the pleural fluid, namely from 15 to 480 micrograms/l; the levels were independent of the levels in the pleural fluid. thus, a high level of hya in pleural fluid is not specific for mesothelioma but can occur in other malignant or benign diseases, and a low level does not exclude mesothelioma.
proximity of the home to a cooling tower and risk of non-outbreak legionnaires' disease. objective--to study the source of non-outbreak legionnaires' disease, particularly the role of cooling towers, by comparing the locations of patients' homes in relation to the location of cooling towers. design--retrospective, descriptive study of a case series of patients with legionnaires' disease ill between 1978 and 1986 and, for comparison, a case series of patients with lung cancer. a prospectively developed register and interview based survey provided data on the location of cooling towers. setting--the city of glasgow. patients--134 patients aged 14-84 with legionnaires' disease during 1978-86 and 10,159 patients with lung cancer during the same period. main outcome measures--the locations of patients' homes and cooling towers as defined by postcodes, which provided map grid references accurate to 10 m; numbers of expected and observed cases of legionnaires' disease in census enumeration districts; and distance of enumeration districts from the nearest cooling tower as defined by five distance categories. results--most cooling towers were in or near the city centre or close to the river clyde, as were the places of residence of patients with community acquired, non-travel, non-outbreak legionnaires' disease (n = 107). there was an inverse association between the distance of residence from any cooling tower and the risk of infection, the population living within 0.5 km of any tower having a relative risk of infection over three times that of people living more than 1 km away. there was no such association with respect to travel related legionnaires' disease, and for lung cancer the association was weak (relative risk less than or equal to 1.2 in any distance group). conclusion--in glasgow cooling towers have been a source of infection in two outbreaks of legionnaires' disease and, apparently, a source of non-outbreak infection also. better maintenance of cooling towers should help prevent non-outbreak cases. this method of inquiry should be applied elsewhere to study the source of this and other environmentally acquired disease.
patient perception of tics and other movement disorders. to determine the subjective perception patients have of abnormal movements, 170 patients with various hyperkinesias were interviewed with questions directed at the "voluntary" or intentional versus "involuntary" aspects of their symptoms. one hundred and two of 110 patients with non-tic disorders thought that the abnormal movements were entirely involuntary. forty-one of 60 tic disorder patients stated that all their motor and phonic tics were intentionally produced. fifteen others had both voluntary and involuntary components, usually with the former predominating. a "voluntary" response could be used to predict the correct diagnostic category (tic versus non-tic) in 8 of 9 patients for whom the referral category was incorrect. these results suggest that a large proportion of the motor and phonic symptoms experienced by tic patients are irresistibly but purposefully executed, more akin to compulsions than to the other "involuntary" hyperkinesias with which they are commonly discussed.
recovery profile after desflurane-nitrous oxide versus isoflurane-nitrous oxide in outpatients. thirty-eight healthy outpatients undergoing elective surgical procedures lasting 1-3 h were randomly assigned to receive either desflurane 3% (approximately 0.5 mac) or isoflurane 0.6% (approximately 0.5 mac) for maintenance of general anesthesia with nitrous oxide 60% in oxygen after a standardized induction sequence consisting of fentanyl 3 micrograms.kg-1, thiopental 4 mg.kg-1, and succinylcholine 1-1.5 mg.kg-1, intravenously. although anesthetic conditions were similar during operations in the two treatment groups, significant differences were noted in the recovery profiles as measured by elimination kinetics, psychometric testing, and visual analog scales (to assess subjective feelings). the time required for the end-tidal concentration to decrease by 50% was 2.5 +/- 0.8 min for desflurane vs. 9.5 +/- 3.4 min for isoflurane (mean +/- standard deviation [sd]). times to awakening and ability to follow simple commands were significantly shorter after desflurane than after isoflurane (5.1 +/- 2.4 vs. 10.2 +/- 7.7 min 6.5 +/- 2.3 min vs. 11.1 +/- 7.9 min, respectively). postoperatively, patients who received desflurane exhibited less impairment of cognitive function (as measured using the digit-symbol substitution test) than did those who received isoflurane. furthermore, visual analog scores indicated that patients receiving desflurane experienced significantly less discomfort (pain), drowsiness, fatigue, clumsiness, and confusion in the early postoperative period. we conclude that desflurane may offer clinical advantages over isoflurane when used for maintenance of anesthesia during outpatient surgical procedures.
pregnancy associated with gorlin's syndrome. a pregnant woman with gorlin's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours. the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure. this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production.
imaging of tumor in patients with indium-111-labeled biotin and streptavidin-conjugated antibodies: preliminary communication tumor localization in patients has been achieved through the in vivo use of streptavidin and biotin. in these preliminary studies, the monoclonal antibody hmfg1 was conjugated with streptavidin and 1 mg was administered intravenously to each of 10 patients with documented squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. two to 3 days later, 111in-labeled biotin was also administered intravenously. no evidence of toxicity was observed. background radioactivity levels were reduced in liver (1% id at 24 hr) and kidneys (2%) and in all other normal tissues and blood. images of lung tumor were obtained in as little as 2 hr following administration of labeled biotin. in eight patients, tumor was detected with labeled biotin alone without the previous administration of streptavidin-conjugated antibody but in three of these patients, the images were improved with the prior administration of conjugated antibody. these results suggest that this approach may improve the tumor-to-normal tissue radioactivity ratios in radioimmunotargeting.
idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis in a man. idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis is a rare disease described in young adolescent women, characterized by fibrosis and adhesions of the peritoneum to loops of the small bowel. here we describe a 35-year-old man who underwent exploratory laparotomy for repeated small bowel obstruction. only partial resection of the terminal ileum was possible because of adhesions; recurrent abdominal infections and leakage from anastomosis required further resection, which ultimately resulted in short bowel syndrome and malabsorption. the clinical and pathological findings were characteristic for idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis. we review the relevant literature, to confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that this is the first report of a male patient who has developed this rare disease.
exaggerated venous mural hypertrophy in association with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate. a 61-year-old black man presented with metastases to the right groin 5 years after 125iodine treatment for a well differentiated primary prostatic adenocarcinoma. medium sized veins within and immediately adjacent to the neoplasm showed marked mural thickening due to hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the inner circular and outer longitudinal muscles. there was no histological evidence of radiation effect in the stroma or in the tumor cells. we could find no report in the literature of such changes associated with metastatic carcinoma.
cerebral venous oxygen content as a measure of brain energy metabolism with increased intracranial pressure and hyperventilation. in order to test the hypothesis that the cerebral arteriovenous oxygen difference (avdo2) and venous oxygen content (vo2) could be used to monitor brain energy metabolism in the setting of increased intracranial pressure (icp). 12 cats were studied with 31p-magnetic resonance spectroscopy. six cats were subjected to intracranial hypertension by cisternal infusion of saline. energy failure occurred at an average avdo2 of 8.4 +/- 3.2 vol% (+/- standard deviation) (range 4.7 to 14.7 vol%). the vo2 at the point of metabolic failure averaged 1.45 +/- 0.6 vol% and extended over a narrower range (1.0 to 2.9 vol%). in an additional six cats, icp was raised to the threshold of metabolic failure and hyperventilation was then instituted (pco2 10 to 18 torr). five of the six cats experienced a drop in vo2 with hyperventilation. in two of these animals, hyperventilation resulted in a vo2 of 1.1 vol% or less and in metabolic failure as evidenced by a fall in phosphocreatine. it is concluded that a vo2 of less than 2 vol% is correlated with brain ischemia and that the safety of hyperventilation in the setting of increased icp can be monitored by the use of vo2.
evidence for tumor necrosis factor-induced pulmonary microvascular injury after intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury. acute lung injury characterized by increased microvascular permeability is one feature of multiple-organ system failure and the adult respiratory distress syndrome. intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury has been linked to this type of acute lung injury. the purpose of these experiments was to examine the pathogenic mediators that link the two processes, with particular emphasis on the roles of endotoxin and tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf alpha). previously described characteristics of the acute lung injury in this rat model of intestinal ischemia-reperfusion include pulmonary neutrophil sequestration, depletion of lung tissue atp, alveolar endothelial cell disruption, and increased microvascular permeability. plasma levels of tnf in the systemic circulation of sham-operated animals and those with intestinal ischemic injury less than 60 minutes in duration were very low or undetectable. intestinal ischemia for 120 minutes was associated with tnf elevation to 1.19 +/- 0.50 u/ml. reperfusion for periods of 15 and 30 minutes generated 5- to 10-fold increases in circulating tnf levels (6.61 +/- 3.11 u/ml, p greater than 0.05 and 10.41 +/- 5.41 u/ml, p = 0.004 compared to sham); however this increase in circulating tnf was transient and largely cleared within 60 minutes after initiating reperfusion. portal vein endotoxin levels were found to increase significantly before the appearance of tnf in systemic plasma, suggesting that gut-derived endotoxin may induce tnf release from hepatic macrophages into the systemic circulation. anti-tnf antibody attenuated the increase in pulmonary microvascular permeability in this preparation but did not prevent pulmonary neutrophil sequestration. these observations suggest that endotoxin and tnf have pathogenic roles in this acute lung injury, but that mechanisms of adherence of neutrophils to endothelial cells independent of tnf may be involved. the accumulation of neutrophils in the lung but the prevention of a vascular permeability increase in the presence of antibody to tnf may imply an in vivo role for tnf in the process of neutrophil activation. these studies provide additional evidence of the importance of the endogenous inflammatory mediators in the development of systemic injury in response to local tissue injury.
polyglucosan body disease. adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases. all had signs of peripheral neuropathy, upper motor neuron signs, and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems. dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases. we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features. electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy. somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal. sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies. although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific, the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis. branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal. hence, a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known.
hemiparesis and ischemic changes of the white matter after intrathecal therapy for children with acute lymphocytic leukemia. three children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (all) developed delayed-onset transient hemiparesis and facial palsy after intrathecal (it) administration of methotrexate (mtx) alone or as part of triple intrathecal chemotherapy for central nervous system (cns) prophylaxis. the hemiparesis developed 10 to 14 days after it therapy. two of three children also experienced transient, profound expressive dysarthria. these episodes occurred during maintenance treatment after multiple it administrations and without previous cns toxicity. two of three children received intermediate-dose mtx, 1 g/m2, not less than 5 weeks before events. these patients had not received cranial irradiation and had no evidence of cns leukemia before or after these episodes. ischemic changes on computerized tomographic scan or magnetic resonance imaging studies were documented in all three cases. such changes are unusual manifestations of neurotoxicity in children after intrathecal therapy.
experience with duraphase penile prosthesis: its use as replacement device. the duraphase penile prosthesis is a new, articulating type of semirigid prosthesis which appears to have several advantages over other semirigid penile prostheses. this series describes the experience with this prosthesis in 12 patients and highlights the experience in 4 patients who underwent removal of other types of prostheses due to mechanical or functional problems and replacement with the duraphase prosthesis. the device has been mechanically reliable during short follow-up, and there has been excellent patient satisfaction.
postictal psychosis after partial complex seizures: a multiple case study. bouts of unusually frequent partial complex seizures originating in the temporal lobe, that sometimes became secondarily generalized, induced psychotic episodes in 9 patients. in 7, the increase in seizures occurred at a time when antiepileptic drugs (aeds) were being reduced during intensive eeg monitoring with a view to surgical treatment of intractable epilepsy. according to dsm-iii-r criteria, the postictal psychosis resembled an organic delusional syndrome which was paranoid in 7 and schizophreniform in 1 and an organic mood syndrome in 1. a high incidence of ictal fear, of bilateral independent epileptogenic discharge, and of small foreign tissue lesion were unexpected findings and appeared to represent risk factors, especially in patients otherwise handicapped by an epileptic personality disorder. recognition of postictal psychosis in this setting and in others is important both prognostically and therapeutically. postictal psychosis does not constitute a contraindication to surgical treatment of epilepsy.
safe use of codeine in the recovering alcoholic or addict. the effect that codeine has on the process of addiction and recovery is unclear. confusion about definitions, study endpoints, and a lack of well-controlled clinical studies has led to this uncertainty. codeine addiction is uncommon in people who do not have existing vulnerability to addiction, including alcoholism. codeine use can sustain addiction or increase the risk of relapse in patients afflicted with addiction. the risk of relapse must be considered when treating conditions such as pain or cough in a person recovering from addiction. codeine use may be circumvented with the appropriate use of alternative treatments for pain or cough. if codeine use becomes necessary, cautious prescribing and reliance on the patient's recovery support network become imperative.
spinal cord arteriovenous malformation with an associated lymphatic anomaly. case report. spinal cord arteriovenous malformations (avm's), like other vascular anomalies of the central nervous system, can be associated with similar vascular lesions of the skin and viscera. a 7-year-old girl, who presented with rapidly progressing paraplegia, was found to have a spinal cord avm, cutaneous angioma, and a chylous malformation of the lymphatic system. she had previously undergone treatment for a posterior thoracic cutaneous angioma. at surgery, upon incision of the paravertebral muscle fascia, viscous pale fluid was encountered emanating from a foramen in the thoracic lamina. the spinal avm was resected in spite of concern that the abnormality represented spinal osteomyelitis. postoperatively, there was full return of function in the lower extremities, along with recurrent episodes of chylothorax, which slowly came under control with dietary manipulation. a review of the anatomy of the thoracic duct and nontraumatic causes of chylothorax is presented, and the association of cutaneous and central angiomas is discussed. finally, the treatment of chylothorax is delineated.
a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit for biliary atresia. forty-six consecutive patients with biliary atresia were operated on at our institution during the 11-year period between 1978 and 1989. their ages at operation ranged from 18 to 153 days (mean, 59 days). after dissecting the porta hepatis structures by kasai operation, a biliointestinal anastomosis was constructed with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit in all cases. the intestinal valve is an intussuscepted muscular valve. valvular function was examined radiologically. the upper gastrointestinal series demonstrated no reflux of contrast material into the conduit proximal to the valve and liver scintigraphy demonstrated that radioactive isotope drained readily into the duodenum through the valve. thirty-nine of the forty-six patients (85%) had bile drainage after initial operation. at present 30 patients (65%) are alive without jaundice, 6 (13%) are alive with jaundice, and 10 (22%) are dead. the 5-year jaundice-free survival rate was 64%. cholangitis occurred in 9 of 39 patients (23%) who had obtained apparent bile drainage: 5 had tractable cholangitis and 4 had refractory cholangitis. reoperation restored bile flow in 2 of 8 patients who abruptly ceased to have bile drainage without cholangitis. in conclusion, with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit, the incidence of cholangitis was decreased, its medical control became easier, and the survival rate was improved.
alternating hepatic intra-arterial floxuridine and fluorouracil: a less toxic regimen for treatment of liver metastases from colorectal cancer. hepatic intra-arterial (hia) infusion of floxuridine (fudr) via an implanted pump has shown promise in the treatment of colorectal cancer metastasized to the liver. however, the potential benefit of this therapy may be offset by the high incidence of treatment-limiting biliary toxicity. although weekly hia bolus of fluorouracil (5-fu) is effective against metastatic colorectal cancer to the liver with no biliary toxicity, it is limited by systemic side effects. in december 1986, we began a phase ii trial of alternating hia fudr and 5-fu via the implanted pump in an attempt to extend the duration of treatment by obviating the limiting biliary (fudr) and systemic (5-fu) drug toxic effects. patients received continuous hia fudr at 0.1 mg/kg of body weight per day on days 1 through 8 followed by an hia bolus of 5-fu at 15 mg/kg given via the pump sideport on days 15, 22, and 29, with the cycle repeated every 35 days. sixty-eight patients were enrolled in this trial, and 64 were fully evaluable. of the 64 patients, 30 (47%) previously had received chemotherapy. major response (complete response plus partial response) was observed in 32 (50%) of 64 patients, and the median survival from pump implantation in all patients was 22.4 months. in contrast to the experience with the single-agent hia fudr regimen, no patient had treatment terminated because of drug toxicity. alternating hia fudr and 5-fu has efficacy similar to that of hia fudr given alone, but when closely monitored and adjusted appropriately, is not associated with toxic effects requiring treatment termination.
renovascular disease and renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor therapy are widely recognized, but few authors have documented the incidence or spectrum of these conditions. in a retrospective study of 530 consecutive patients presenting to our unit as acute uraemic emergencies over a six-year period, 85 (16 per cent) had renovascular disease that was considered to be responsible for their loss of renal function. twenty-one (4 per cent) patients had uraemia which could be clearly attributable to ace inhibitor treatment; 18 of these cases were shown to have significant renovascular pathology. following withdrawal of the ace inhibitor the renal failure reversed in the majority of patients. we also examined 400 consecutive hypertensive patients referred over a similar period and, although vascular imaging was performed only when it was considered to be clinically indicated, 58 (14.5 per cent) of these patients were shown to have renovascular pathology. a further five patients with stable chronic renal disease were seen to have a deterioration in their glomerular filtration rate coincident with commencement of ace inhibitor therapy; this reversed when the agents were withdrawn. these observations indicate that significant renovascular disease may be more common than has been hitherto recognized and that injudicious use of ace inhibitors may result in serious complications. methods which may minimize such iatrogenic disease are suggested.
percutaneous transaortic closure of postinfarctional ventricular septal rupture. we report a case of successful closure of a postinfarctional ventricular septal defect by means of the transaortic approach with a balloon catheter. this method brought about substantial improvement in cardiopulmonary function before an elective operation and made it possible to successfully perform the operation on the patient, an 81-year-old woman, on the 22nd day of admission.
hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: volumetric measurement of nasogastric aspirate to determine the imaging modality the authors postulated that volumetric measurement of residual gastric aspirate in neonates and infants with nonbilious projectile vomiting could enable differentiation between patients with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (hps) and those with gastroesophageal reflux (ger) and help to determine whether ultrasound (us) or fluoroscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract would best confirm the diagnosis. in the 38 patients (all but two of whom had been fasting for 3-4 hours), 10 ml or more of nasogastric aspirate was considered indicative of obstruction. hps occurred in 91.7% of patients with 10 ml of aspirate or more, whereas ger occurred in 85.7% of patients with less than 10 ml. the differences between the two groups were statistically significant. solely on the basis of residual volume (greater than or equal to 10 ml), the cause of vomiting could be differentiated, prior to standard radiologic studies, 89.4% of the time. it is concluded that patients with projectile vomiting who have 10 ml or more of residual aspirate in the stomach should undergo us for confirmation of hps; those with less than 10 ml should undergo fluoroscopy for confirmation of ger.
the effect of chemotherapy on growth in the skeletally immature individual. one hundred twenty-two children with nonmetastatic osteogenic or ewing's sarcoma were studied to assess the effect of multiagent adjuvant chemotherapy on skeletal growth and final stature. no deviations from the height distributions of a normal population were noted at diagnosis. there was a marked retardation of linear growth during the year of intensive chemotherapy. only 15% of the patients grew at the expected rate during that year. the distribution of nutritional status scores was significantly different at the end of the first year than at baseline. the distribution of ultimate height scores was significantly different than the baseline distribution. the overall final distribution was also significantly different from the normal population expectation. any absolute difference in height, however, is likely to be small. the subgroups that were observed to full adult stature showed mean heights of 162 cm for girls and 176 cm for boys.
central visual field changes after panretinal photocoagulation in proliferative diabetic retinopathy. this study comprises 53 eyes, divided into two groups a and b, with proliferative diabetic retinopathy which were treated with panretinal photocoagulation (prp). its purpose is to investigate the alterations in the central 15 degrees and 30 degrees of the visual field and in each quadrant separately. in both groups a and b, prp covered the periphery and mid-periphery. in group a, it stopped 2 disc diameters (dd) from the upper temporal and lower margin of the fovea including the papillomacular bundle, while in group b, prp stopped 3 dd from the upper temporal and lower margin of the fovea and 1 dd of the nasal margin of the optic disc. the investigation revealed, in group b after prp, an improvement of the retinal sensitivity in the central 15 degrees of the visual field (p less than 0.01). in the 30 degrees of the visual field a deterioration after prp was noted in both groups a and b, the deterioration being however much more prominent in group a. comparing the results between groups b and a after prp, a difference in the retinal sensitivity in favour of group b at 15 degrees and 30 degrees of the visual field was found. as regards regression of neovascularization and visual acuity, no statistically significant difference has been observed between the two groups.
risk for colon adenomas in patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps objective: to determine whether hyperplastic polyps found in the rectosigmoid area of the colon are associated with proximal adenomas, and to judge whether patients with distal hyperplastic polyps found during sigmoidoscopy might benefit from full colonoscopy. design: data on patients having colonoscopy collected prospectively according to a set protocol. the size and location of all polyps were noted, and all polyps were biopsied. setting: two university hospitals. patients: one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy between 31 december 1987 and 31 august 1989. results: of the 970 patients who met eligibility requirements, 274 (28.3%) had adenomas and 108 (11.1%) had hyperplastic polyps. the proportion of patients with distal hyperplastic polyps and proximal adenomas (31.9%) was similar to the proportion of those without distal hyperplastic polyps (23.0%) (crude odds ratio, 1.57; 95% ci, 0.77 to 3.06). after adjusting for age and sex, the results were unchanged (adjusted odds ratio, 1.53; ci, 0.82 to 2.88). patients with distal adenomas, on the other hand, were three times more likely to have proximal adenomas than those without distal adenomas (adjusted odds ratio, 3.42; ci, 1.99 to 5.88). conclusions: distal hyperplastic polyps are not strong predictors of risk for proximal adenomas. based on the magnitude of the risk difference, we do not believe that finding a hyperplastic polyp during sigmoidoscopy justifies doing a full colonoscopy to search for proximal adenomas. because rectosigmoid adenomas are associated with proximal adenomas, however, small polyps seen during sigmoidoscopy should be biopsied to determine their type. colonoscopy should be reserved for patients who are proved to have adenomas.
respiratory failure and unilateral caudal brainstem infarction. we report clinicotopographic correlations in 2 patients with central hypoventilation and unilateral infarct in the caudal brainstem. one patient had nearly complete loss of ventilation involving both automatic and voluntary components. he showed no ventilator response during a co2 retention test (paco2 62 mm hg, pao2 82 mm hg), while consciousness was preserved until death. the infarct involved the reticular formation, nucleus tractus solitarius, nucleus ambiguus, and nucleus retroambiguus on the right but spared the dorsal motor nucleus of the tenth cranial nerve, and sensory and corticospinal tracts. the second patient showed hypoventilation more selectively involving automatic responses (ondine's curse). the infarct involved the medullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus but spared the nucleus tractus solitarius. we suggest that unilateral involvement of pontomedullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus is sufficient for generating loss of automatic respiration, while associated lesion of the nucleus tractus solitarius may lead to more severe respiratory failure involving both automatic and voluntary responses.
current status of organ preservation with university of wisconsin solution. a retrospective analysis of all organs that were preserved with university of wisconsin solution was undertaken to assess the impact of this solution on early allograft function. from may 1987 until june 1990, 181 livers, 92 pancreata, and 92 kidneys were preserved with university of wisconsin solution for extended periods of time. the mean (+/- sd) preservation times were as follows: liver, 12.6 +/- 4.5 hours; pancreas, 16.7 +/- 4.4 hours; and kidney, 18.3 +/- 4.3 hours. the overall rate of primary nonfunction and hepatic artery thrombosis were 6.1% and 3.9%, respectively. no differences in the rates of primary nonfunction and hepatic artery thrombosis were noted for combined liver-pancreas procurement vs isolated liver retrievals or when reduced-size liver transplants were compared with nonreduced liver transplants. likewise, no difference in primary nonfunction or hepatic artery thrombosis was seen in livers that were preserved for less than 6, 6 to 12, and greater than 12 hours. however, serum aminotransferase levels and prothrombin times were lower on the first postoperative day in livers that were preserved for less than 6 hours when compared with 6 to 12 or greater than 12 hours. early pancreatic allograft function was also excellent for up to 24 hours of cold-storage preservation. all patients were immediately insulin independent, and there were no cases of initial nonfunction or graft pancreatitis. there were only two cases (2.2%) of pancreatic vascular thrombosis in this series. no difference in pancreatic function was noted for organs that were preserved for less than 6, 6 to 12, or greater than 12 hours. likewise, renal allograft function was excellent, with only two patients (2.2%) requiring postoperative hemodialysis. the actuarial 1-month patient survival for liver and pancreas-kidney transplant recipients was 91.5% and 98.9%, respectively. actuarial 1-month allograft survival for liver, pancreas, and kidney transplants was 83.0%, 96.7%, and 97.8%, respectively. in conclusion, university of wisconsin solution represents a significant advancement in cold-storage organ preservation and is ideally suited as a universal intra-abdominal aortic-flush and cold-storage solution.
relapse of infant botulism. we report on 3 infants who had relapse of infant botulism after apparent resolution of clinical symptoms. this group represented 5% of the infants with confirmed infant botulism who were treated at our institution since 1976. the exact cause for these relapses was unclear, but three potential mechanisms are examined. there were no historical, clinical, or electrophysiological predictors of relapse. although at the time of writing recovery from relapse appeared complete, close follow-up of patients recovering from a bout of infant botulism is necessary.
early-onset autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa with severe hyperopia. we studied a four-generation family with early-onset autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, severe hyperopia, and axial eye lengths of less than 20 mm. the affected members had decreased vision, night blindness, typical peripheral retinal pigmentary changes, and electroretinographic abnormalities characteristic of retinitis pigmentosa. this pedigree suggests there is another variant of retinitis pigmentosa associated with hyperopia besides leber's congenital amaurosis and preserved para-arteriole retinal pigment epithelium.
calcitropic hormones, platelet calcium, and blood pressure in essential hypertension. plasma ionized calcium, platelet cytosolic calcium (using the fura-2 method in gel-filtered platelets), parathyroid hormone (both the intact hormone and a midmolecule portion), calcitriol, and calcidiol were measured in 19 untreated male patients with essential hypertension and 19 age-matched normotensive male research subjects. mean levels of platelet cytosolic calcium, parathyroid hormone, calcitriol, and calcidiol were all significantly higher, whereas plasma ionized calcium was significantly lower, in the hypertensive group compared with the normotensive group. both platelet cytosolic calcium and intact parathyroid hormone were positively correlated with mean arterial pressure (r = 0.58, p less than 0.001; r = 0.54, p less than 0.001, respectively), whereas plasma ionized calcium was inversely correlated with mean arterial pressure (r = -0.60, p less than 0.001) in the combined group of all study subjects. all three of these correlations were significant in the hypertensive group alone but not in the normotensive group alone. when analyzed with plasma ionized calcium, body mass index, serum calcitriol, and calcidiol in a multivariable regression model, the significance of the partial regressions of platelet cytosolic calcium and parathyroid hormone with mean arterial pressure persisted. intact parathyroid hormone was positively correlated to platelet cytosolic calcium (r = 0.43, p less than 0.01) and plasma ionized calcium was inversely correlated to platelet cytosolic calcium (r = -0.44, p less than 0.01). these results confirm previous reports of disturbances of calcium metabolism in essential hypertension and suggest that the elevated platelet cytosolic calcium observed in essential hypertension may be linked to one or more of these alterations of calcium metabolism.
relevance of focal cerebral ischemia models. experience with fibrinolytic agents. despite the limitations of individual ischemia models, experience with fibrinolytic agents suggests that 1) early intervention with rt-pa may result in rapid thrombolysis, functional recovery, and decreased mortality in small animal stroke thromboembolism models, 2) rt-pa has no general effect on clinical recovery following mca occlusion and reperfusion in the nonhuman primate at dose rates capable of producing very high circulating rt-pa levels, while u-pa has an apparently salutary effect, and 3) intravenous infusion of rt-pa or u-pa early after ischemia/infarction in several model systems is not associated with significant intracerebral hemorrhage. the true clinical relevance of these general impressions must await the completion of human studies and studies in well-conceived models designed to define the vascular consequences to be expected from reperfusion achievable with thrombolytic agents.
esophageal motility, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux: variations in clinical presentation of esophageal dysphagia. dysphagia is a potentially important symptom, often leading to the finding of an anatomical or motility disorder of the esophagus. dysphagia and heartburn represent two of the most common symptoms associated with esophageal motility disorders. to explore the relationship of symptomatic esophageal dysphagia and heartburn and their association with primary esophageal motor disorders, we have performed a retrospective assessment of 1035 patient evaluations performed at our gastrointestinal laboratory. a clear statistical association of symptomatic dysphagia and heartburn was established; however, no pattern diagnostic of a specific motility disorder was discernible. a sizable fraction of our patient population with dysphagia demonstrated normal esophageal motility. a significant portion of dyspeptic patients exhibited both normal motility and acid exposure. the differences observed between the incidence of subjective symptoms and objective dysfunction may be explained in part by an altered or increased esophageal sensitivity of these patients.
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells. mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy. we have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide (plp). immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of plp cytoplasmic immunopositivity. plp immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells. the results of these studies suggest that plp immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that plp production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma.
genetic analysis as an aid in diagnosis for patients with midline carcinomas of uncertain histologies the tumors of nine patients with carcinomas of uncertain histogenesis (eight with poorly differentiated carcinomas involving primarily midline structures and one with a diagnosis of seminoma and atypical clinical features) were studied by cytogenetic and southern blot analyses. four of the eight patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas had abnormalities of chromosome 12 consistent with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor. these abnormalities comprised an i(12p) in two patients and a del(12q) in a third patient detected by cytogenetic analysis and multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis in a fourth patient. three of these four patients with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor established by genetic analysis achieved a complete response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. the tumor biopsy of one patient showed a t(11;22) (q24;q12), and this patient had chemotherapy directed to neuroepithelioma. cytogenetic analysis was unsuccessful for the tumors of three patients; these tumors did not have multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis. these patients did not respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. one patient with a diagnosis of extragonadal seminoma failed to respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy and had a second tumor biopsy performed that demonstrated a t(8;14) (q24;q32). this patient's diagnosis was changed to a non-hodgkin's lymphoma. thus, genetic analysis provided a diagnosis in six of nine patients. cytogenetic and molecular analyses are useful clinical tools for the determination of histogenesis in some patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas of uncertain histology.
amputation or limb-lengthening for partial or total absence of the fibula. thirty-two patients who had ablation of the foot by the syme or boyd technique for partial or total absence of the fibula, with subsequent fitting of a prosthesis, were compared with eleven patients who had lengthening of the lower limb by the wagner method, to assess the long-term results of each procedure. the final results were evaluated on the basis of pain, limp, limb-length discrepancy, level of physical activity, and satisfaction of the patient. of the thirty-two patients who had an amputation, twenty-eight (88 per cent) had a satisfactory result, compared with only six (55 per cent) of the eleven patients who had limb-lengthening. the amount of inequality between the lower limbs was classified as follows: group i--the foot of the shorter extremity was at the distal third of the contralateral, normal limb, and the percentage of shortening was 15 per cent or less; group ii--the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the middle third of the contralateral, normal limb, and the percentage of shortening was between 16 and 25 per cent; and group iii--the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the proximal third of the contralateral, normal limb, and the percentage of shortening was greater than 26 per cent. lengthening was best suited for patients in group i who had stable hips, knees, and ankles and a plantigrade foot. patients in groups ii and iii were best served by ablation of the foot and fitting of a prosthesis.
circumflex artery ventricular fistula and pseudoaneurysm after mitral reoperation. prosthetic mitral valve reoperation complicated by atrioventricular groove pseudoaneurysm and circumflex ventricular fistula is presented. ligation of the circumflex artery during mitral valve replacement is implicated after review of a previous cardiac angiogram.
postoperative hypertension: a prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind trial, with intravenous nicardipine hydrochloride. nicardipine hydrochloride, a new calcium channel blocker for intravenous use, has been compared with placebo in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial on postoperative hypertension. of 175 patients who signed preoperative consent, 24 (13.7%) met entry criteria. hypertension was significantly better controlled in nicardipine-treated patients compared with those receiving placebo (93% versus 30%, p less than 0.05). all the placebo failures were subsequently successfully treated with nicardipine. there were no significant complications in either group. the authors conclude that nicardipine hc1 is an effective, safe therapy for postoperative hypertension. further studies are now indicated comparing it with other drugs currently used to treat this condition.
decreased local toxicity with subcutaneous diamorphine (heroin): a preliminary report. we report the cases of 5 patients who developed severe local toxicity during the subcutaneous administration of morphine sulphate and hydromorphone hydrochloride. all patients required site changes more frequently than once every 24 h due to redness, swelling, or pain while receiving morphine or hydromorphone. all patients showed prolongation in the duration of sites of infusion once an equianalgesic dose of diamorphine hydrochloride (heroin) was started. no change in pain control or systemic toxicity was detected with diamorphine. these findings suggest that diamorphine could be a useful alternative for patients who develop severe toxicity to subcutaneous morphine or hydromorphone.
inflammatory nodular reactions after hepatitis b vaccination due to aluminium sensitization. in 2 patients, pruritic nodules appeared after revaccination against hepatitis b. aluminium was found to be responsible for this side effect: contact allergy to aluminium was present in both patients, whereas controls were negative.
congenital cystic disease of the seminal vesicle. thirteen cases of congenital seminal vesicle cysts with pathologic correlation were diagnosed between 1970 and 1988. twelve of the 13 patients had ipsilateral renal anomalies. intravenous urography, performed in 11 of the 13 patients, demonstrated associated renal anomalies. computed tomography, performed in nine of the 13 patients, demonstrated associated renal anomalies and displayed the cystic seminal vesicles. transabdominal or endorectal ultrasonography, performed in eight patients, allowed characterization of the seminal vesicle masses as cystic. magnetic resonance imaging, performed in three of the 13 patients, accurately demonstrated dilated ejaculatory ducts into which ectopic ureters inserted. the fluid in the seminal vesicle cysts had an increased signal intensity on t1- and t2-weighted sequences. seminal vesiculographic study demonstrated anomalous communications with the seminal tract. cystic disease of the seminal vesicles can be either congenital or acquired; congenital cysts are associated with anomalies of the ipsilateral mesonephric duct.
bacterial or viral meningitis? measuring lactate in csf can help you know quickly. measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) lactate is a useful test when properly applied to the appropriate clinical situation and can offer information other csf parameters cannot provide. except for gram's stain of csf, lactate level is the most important csf parameter in the early differentiation of viral (aseptic) and bacterial purulent meningitis.
ischemic brain damage: reduction by sodium-calcium ion channel modulator rs-87476. a novel sodium-calcium ion channel modulator, rs-87476, reduced cerebral infarct size in cats subjected to permanent unilateral occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. cerebral injury was assessed in vivo with a combination of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging and spectroscopy for 5-12 hours after occlusion and was compared with the area of histochemically ischemic brain tissue. compared with infarcts in placebo-treated animals, infarcts in cats given rs-87476 were reduced by an average of 70% at the lowest dose, 75% at the intermediate dose, and 88% at the highest dose. tissue edema, observed as areas of signal hyperintensity on diffusion- and t2-weighted spin-echo images, was confined to small regions of the parietal cortex and basal ganglia in drug-treated animals. mean plasma levels of rs-87476 at the lowest dose were 13 ng/ml initially, falling to maintenance levels of 3-5 ng/ml; at the intermediate and highest doses, plasma levels of drug were approximately five- and 20-fold greater. the drug was only slightly hypotensive. at least part of the potent cerebroprotective effects of rs-87476 result from its ability to stabilize metabolic energy reserves, reduce lactate formation in ischemic tissues, and attenuate intracerebral edema.
valgus deformities of the feet and characteristics of gait in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis. to investigate the cause of valgus deformity of the hindfoot in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and to characterize the effects of the deformity on gait, two groups of patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and with gait analysis in the laboratory. group 1 consisted of seven patients who had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and normal alignment of the feet and group 2, of ten patients who had rheumatoid arthritis and valgus deformity of the hindfoot. in group 2, the disease was of longer duration and the feet were more painful than in group 1. there was no evidence of muscular imbalance, equinus contracture, valgus deformity of the tibiotalar joint, or isolated deficiency of the tibialis posterior (such as weakness, tenosynovitis, or rupture of the tendon) that could have contributed to the development of the valgus deformity. in the patients who had valgus deformity, quantitated electromyography demonstrated that the intensity and duration of activity of the tibialis posterior was significantly increased, apparently in an effort to support the collapsing longitudinal arch of the foot. gait studies revealed decreases in velocity, stride length, and single-limb-support time, as well as delayed heel-rise in both groups, but the decreases were more marked in the patients who had valgus deformity. the results of this study suggest that valgus deformity of the hindfoot in rheumatoid patients results from exaggerated pronation forces on the weakened and inflamed subtalar joint. these forces are caused by alterations in gait secondary to symmetrical muscular weakness and the effort of the patient to minimize pain in the feet. radiographs also suggested an association between the valgus deformity of the feet and valgus deformity of the knees in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis.
unusual malignant neoplasms of the esophagus. oat cell carcinoma, melanoma, and sarcoma. primary noncarcinomatous malignant neoplasms of the esophagus are uncommon and data concerning treatment and results are sparse. to evaluate the results of therapy in this group, we reviewed the records of 32 patients with primary esophageal malignant tumors of unusual histologic type. thirteen patients (41%) had sarcoma, eight (25%) melanoma, and 11 (34%) had oat cell carcinoma. dysphagia was present in 78% (25/32) of the patients for a median of 13 weeks before diagnosis. location of the esophageal primary tumor was upper third in four patients (12%), middle third in 12 (38%), and lower third in 16 (50%). treatment consisted of esophagectomy in 10 of 13 patients with sarcoma (77%), seven of eight with melanoma (88%), and three of 11 with oat cell carcinoma (27%). patients not undergoing resection received chemotherapy or radiation therapy, or both. the 3- and 5-year survival rates were 46% and 23% for sarcoma (median 20 months), 13% and 0% for melanoma (median 5 months), and 0% and 0% for oat cell carcinoma (median 5 months), respectively. distant disease was the initial form of recurrence in 73% (11/15) of patients undergoing curative therapy. surgical resection appears indicated for localized primary esophageal sarcoma. optimum treatment of primary esophageal melanoma is less clear, but surgical resection may be of benefit in selected patients. esophageal oat cell carcinoma is a systemic disease necessitating systemic therapy with local therapy reserved for palliation of dysphagia.
toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids. case report. toxoplasma gondii has been reported to be the most common cause of focal brain lesions in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). a case of intramedullary toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris is reported in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids. the diagnosis is discussed, with particular emphasis on the magnetic resonance imaging appearance.
clinicopathologic features and long-term results of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer. during a 10-yr-period, 24 cases of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer were experienced in our department. the mean age was 62.5 yr, and the sex ratio of males to females was 3:1. borrmann ii and iii types of gastric cancer were predominant (83.3%). the prognosis was dismal. most of the patients, including three radically operated cases of early gastric cancer, died from liver metastasis within 2 yr. the 1-, 3-, and 6-yr survival rates were 37.5%, 8.3%, and 8.3%, respectively, for all cases and 75.0%, 25.0%, and 25.0% for radically operated cases. the incidences of synchronous and metachronous liver metastasis were 31.8% and 40.9%, significantly higher than the incidences of afp-negative gastric cancer (p less than 0.91). despite radical gastrectomy, metachronous liver metastasis occurred in 75.0% of the cases. two radical hepatic resections, including extended right lobectomy, were performed in one patient with early gastric cancer who had repeated metachronous liver metastasis. however, the tumor recurred immediately. apparently, radical gastrectomy or hepatic resection alone may not suffice for this particular type of cancer. the methods of treatment and follow-up considered should be different from that for other types of gastric cancer.
angiographic arterial embolization and computed tomography-directed drainage for the management of hemorrhage and infection with abdominal pregnancy. hemorrhage during or after surgery, pelvic abscess, bowel obstruction, and prolonged febrile morbidity can complicate the puerperal course of the gravida after removal of an extrauterine fetus with nondisturbance of the extrauterine placenta. in this report we describe the successful angiographic arterial gelfoam embolization of the placental vascular bed to control heavy postoperative hemorrhage in a mother suffering adult respiratory distress syndrome after removal of the fetal portion of her abdominal pregnancy. six weeks later, computed tomography (ct)-directed drainage by catheter of a placental abscess was performed. selective angiographic transcatheter embolization with gelfoam is a useful tool for the control of hemorrhage in the gravida who is an unfavorable operative candidate or who may present technical hemostasis problems peculiar to the placenta with abdominal pregnancy. later use of ct-directed catheter drainage of the infected residual placental mass provided a nonoperative means of treatment.
blood loss reduced during hip arthroplasty by lumbar plexus block. we measured the blood loss during and after hip replacement in two groups of women, each consisting of 10 patients. in one group the lumbar plexus was infiltrated with bupivacaine, in the other it was not. the group in whom the plexus was blocked had significantly less blood loss.
cardiac conducting tissue. a simplified technique for examination of the sa and av nodes. we describe a modified method for examination of the atrioventricular and sinoatrial nodes that displays the major elements of the cardiac conducting system, yet is not time-consuming for the technician. we examined 31 cases in three categories: cases with previous cardiac history, sudden deaths from no known cause, and cases where death was sudden and accidental. all cases showed histologic abnormalities in the cardiac tissue. we contend that our method would permit such examination to be routinely used in the pathology laboratory.
percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty in surgical high risk patients. among 126 consecutive patients undergoing percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, 34 were judged to be at high risk for surgery on the basis of age greater than 70 years (n = 13), new york heart association functional class iv (n = 11), ejection fraction less than or equal to 35% (n = 3), severe pulmonary hypertension (n = 7), need for associated coronary bypass (n = 4) or additional valve surgery (n = 20) or severe pulmonary disease (n = 3). baseline features of the high risk group were substantially worse than those of the other patients: age (65 +/- 11 versus 49 +/- 12 years; p = 0.0001) and echocardiographic score (9.4 +/- 1.8 versus 8.2 +/- 1.5; p = 0.005) were higher, whereas cardiac output (2.9 +/- 0.9 versus 4.1 +/- 1.2 liters/min; p = 0.0001) and mitral valve area (0.9 +/- 0.4 versus 1.1 +/- 0.3 mm2; p = 0.002) were lower. three high risk patients experienced technical failures and three others had major complications. among the remaining 28 patients, 18 (65%) had a complete hemodynamic success, 4 (14%) an incomplete success and 6 (21%) hemodynamic failure. stepwise logistic regression analysis retained echocardiographic score as the only factor independently predictive of success. the percent increase in mitral valve area also correlated with echocardiographic score (r = 0.51, p less than 0.01).
stereotactic radiosurgery of meningiomas. stereotactic radiosurgery has an expanding role in the management of selected intracranial tumors. in an initial 30-month experience using the 201-source cobalt-60 gamma knife at the university of pittsburgh, 50 patients with meningiomas were treated. the most frequent site of origin was the skull base. previously, 36 patients (72%) had undergone at least one craniotomy and four patients (8%) had received fractionated external beam radiation therapy. stereotactic radiosurgery was the primary treatment modality in 16 patients (32%) with symptomatic tumors demonstrated by neuroimaging. computer imaging-generated isodose plans (with one to five irradiation isocenters) for single-treatment irradiation gave optimal (greater than or equal to 50% isodose line) coverage in 44 patients (88%). the proximity of cranial nerves or vascular, pituitary, and brain-stem structures to the often convoluted tumor mass was crucial to dose selection. serial imaging studies were evaluated in all 50 patients. twenty-four patients were examined between 12 and 36 months after treatment; 13 (54%) showed a reduction in tumor volume while nine (38%) showed no change. of 26 patients evaluated between 6 and 12 months after treatment, four showed a decrease in tumor size while 22 showed no change. two patients (both with large tumors that received suboptimal irradiation) had delayed tumor growth outside the radiosurgical treatment volume. the actuarial 2-year tumor growth control rate was 96%. between 3 and 12 months after radiosurgery, three patients developed delayed neurological deficits that gradually improved, compatible with delayed radiation injury. although extended follow-up monitoring over many years will be necessary to fully evaluate treatment, to date stereotactic radiosurgery has proved to be a relatively safe and effective therapy for selected patients with symptomatic meningiomas, including those who failed surgical resection. radiosurgery was an effective primary treatment alternative for those patients whose advanced age, medical condition, or high-risk tumor location mitigated against surgical resection.
rectal prolapse in infants and children. rectal prolapse that is intractable to the usual medical therapy was successfully managed without significant complications in 10 patients by simple subcutaneous encirclement of the anus with a heavy nonabsorbable suture, which was in place until the suture was removed or broke after 4 to 6 months. four patients required two sutures and one needed a third insertion. since this procedure is simple, has no serious complications, and controls rectal prolapse, it is recommended as the preferred initial surgical treatment of this condition.
clinical efficacy of flosequinan in heart failure. the effects of the new arterial and venous vasodilator flosequinan have been evaluated in a variety of ways in different groups of patients with chronic heart failure. flosequinan improved the central hemodynamic effects of heart failure in one group, with benefits still apparent up to 24 hours after a single oral dose. in another group it also improved calf blood flow and, therefore, blood flow to skeletal muscle. also, using a number of different tests, it improved the exercise performance of the patients. in a further group the improvement in exercise tolerance produced was similar to that of captopril. flosequinan has the necessary properties of a drug that is likely to be of benefit in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure.
regional changes in creatine kinase and myocyte size in hypertensive and nonhypertensive cardiac hypertrophy. several intracellular enzymes have been shown to have altered total activity or isoenzyme composition in cardiac hypertrophy. this study tests the hypothesis that the accumulation of the fetal-type (bb + mb) creatine kinase (ck) isoenzymes in hypertrophied adult myocardium is related to an increase in blood pressure. consideration was made for the location, size, and hemodynamic load of the myocytes. by using the two-kidney, one-clip (2k1c) rat model of renal hypertension with and without hydralazine treatment, ck (total and isoenzyme), lactate dehydrogenase, and citrate synthase activities and myocyte size were measured. an increased heart weight/body weight ratio occurred in both untreated 2k1c rats (4.15 +/- 0.09) and hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats (4.12 +/- 0.13) as compared with control rats (3.25 +/- 0.10). blood pressure was high only in untreated 2k1c rats (196 +/- 9 mm hg), as compared with hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats (142 +/- 6 mm hg) and control rats (135 +/- 3 mm hg). myocytes were isolated from five ventricular regions: left ventricular epicardial and endocardial free wall, left and right halves of the interventricular septum, and right ventricular free wall. regional differences in normal and hypertrophied myocardium were demonstrated for morphological and biochemical parameters, with the greatest changes occurring in left ventricular endocardium. the shift in ck isoenzyme expression toward accumulating more bb + mb was greater in "hypertensive hypertrophy" (untreated 2k1c rats) than in "nonhypertensive hypertrophy" (hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats). calculations incorporating isolated myocyte volume showed that the cellular content of total ck remained the same during the hypertrophic process, accounting for a decrease in the tissue activity. measurement of lactate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase activities suggests that hypertrophied myocardium has relatively higher glycolytic capacity and that this effect is exacerbated in the presence of high blood pressure. we conclude that increased blood pressure is more closely linked to the fetal ck isoenzyme shift than is hypertrophy alone.
low-dose aspirin. ii. relationship of angiotensin ii pressor responses, circulating eicosanoids, and pregnancy outcome. forty pregnant women (28 to 32 weeks' gestation) were given low-dose aspirin therapy (81 mg/day) from the time of enrollment until delivery; circulating eicosanoid levels and angiotensin ii pressor responses were measured before and after 1 week of aspirin therapy. subsequent clinical outcome was correlated with these results. all women had significant reductions in serum and plasma thromboxane b2 levels with aspirin treatment (p less than 0.01). eleven women who remained sensitive to the pressor effects of angiotensin ii (effective pressor dose less than 10 ng/kg/min) after 1 week of low-dose aspirin treatment exhibited significant decreases (p less than 0.05) in plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha (264 +/- 119 vs 161 +/- 31 pg/ml, mean +/- sd) and prostaglandin e2 (476 +/- 174 vs 351 +/- 112 pg/ml) levels. in contrast, patients who were either nonsensitive (refractory) to angiotensin ii (n = 18; greater than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min) before aspirin or became nonsensitive after aspirin administration (n = 11) had no change in either plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha or prostaglandin e2 concentrations. the occurrence of pregnancy-induced hypertension was 100% in the women who remained angiotensin ii sensitive during aspirin therapy as compared with 36% and 39% in the other two groups (x2 = 16.14; p less than 0.001). thus during low-dose aspirin therapy a failure to develop refractoriness to infused angiotensin ii is associated with a nonselective inhibition of eicosanoids and the almost certain development of pregnancy-induced hypertension. these observations may reflect a basic defect in vascular adaptation to pregnancy.
cytotoxic t cell clones isolated from ovarian tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes recognize multiple antigenic epitopes on autologous tumor cells. ctl clones were developed from tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (til) from the ascites of a patient with ovarian carcinoma by coculture of til with autologous tumor cells and subsequent cloning in the presence of autologous tumor cells. these ctl clones expressed preferential cytolytic activity against autologous tumor cells but not against allogeneic ovarian tumor cells and the nk-sensitive cell line k562. the cytolytic activity of these ctl against autologous tumors was inhibited by anti-tcr (wt31 mab), anti-hla class i, and anti-cd3 mab but not by the nk function antibody leu 11b. cloning of the autologous tumor cells in vitro revealed that the ctl clones of the ovarian til expressed differential abilities to lyse autologous tumor cell clones. the specificity analysis of these autologous tumor specific ctl suggested that they recognize several antigenic determinants present on the ovarian tumor cells. our results indicate the presence of at least three antigenic epitopes on the tumor cells (designated ova-1a, ova-1b, and ova-1c), one of which (ova-1c) is unstable. these determinants are present either simultaneously or separately, and six types of ovarian clones can be distinguished on the basis of their expression. these results indicate that ctl of the til detect intratumor antigenic heterogeneity. the novel heterogeneity identified within the ovarian tumor cells in this report may be of significance for understanding cellular immunity in ovarian cancer and developing adoptive specific immunotherapeutic approaches in ovarian cancer.
experimental obliterative cholangitis. a model for the study of biliary atresia. noninfectious obliterative cholangitis results from biliary tract inflammation in clinical conditions such as biliary atresia and sclerosing cholangitis. the purpose of this study was to develop an animal model of noninfectious biliary tract inflammation and fibrosis. an implantable osmotic pump was connected to a catheter placed into the gallbladder of hamsters. phorbol myristate acetate (pma) was infused into the biliary tract for periods of 6 hours to 28 days. after 7 days the animals developed neutrophil infiltration, cellular necrosis, and edema of the biliary ducts. after 14 days, the animals demonstrated intrahepatic cholestasis with bile duct fibrosis and acute and chronic inflammatory cell infiltration. by 28 days pronounced portal fibrosis was present, some of which created an early bridging cirrhosis pattern. in addition there was evidence of neocholangiogenesis. we conclude that long-term pma infusion into the biliary tract generates an inflammatory response characterized by obliterative cholangitis and fibrosis, sharing many of the histologic features of human biliary atresia. this model may provide a relatively simple technique for investigating the process of nonpyogenic biliary tract inflammation.
chest ct combined with artificial pneumothorax: value in determining origin and extent of tumor. to determine the presence of chest wall and mediastinal invasion by lung cancer and to establish the origin of chest tumors, we studied 12 patients with intrathoracic tumors by using chest ct combined with artificial pneumothorax. six patients had primary lung cancer, two had metastases, and one each had neurofibroma, pericardial cyst, chondroma of the rib, and malignant mesothelioma. all 12 tumors abutted the chest wall or mediastinum and could not be separated by conventional ct. between 400 and 800 ml of air was injected into the pleural space before a second ct scan was obtained. no invasion was found at surgery in cancers that were separated from chest wall or mediastinum on ct scans. surgery revealed chest wall invasion in three patients in whom the ct scans showed that the tumor was not separated from the chest wall. only one patient with a tumor that was not separated from the mediastinum on ct did not have mediastinal invasion: in this case, only adhesions were found at surgery. thus, in the eight patients with primary lung cancer and metastasis, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 100%, 80%, and 88%, respectively. in four patients with mediastinal or pleural tumor, ct combined with pneumothorax was useful for establishing the origin of tumors. in all, 11 of the 12 patients were correctly evaluated by using this method. no complications occurred, except for mild chest discomfort in one patient. this study suggests that chest ct combined with artificial pneumothorax is useful for the evaluation of the extension of lung cancer into the chest wall and mediastinum and for the diagnosis of the site of origin of intrathoracic tumors.
'two-stage turbinectomy': sequestration of the inferior turbinate following submucosal diathermy. submucous diathermy of the inferior turbinates is a widely practised procedure. three cases are presented in which surgery was complicated by avascular necrosis of the turbinate bone. each patient required a debridement procedure before healing and recovery of normal mucociliary function could take place.
hemodynamic basis of stasis ulceration--a hypothesis. approximately 25% of patients with stasis ulceration have normal or below normal ambulatory venous pressures. a reflux index was calculated by multiplying postexercise pressures by valsalva-induced foot venous pressure elevation. in patients with stasis ulceration, reflux index was found to have an excellent negative predictive value with a clear discriminant line between normal limbs and those with ulcers. increasing incidence of stasis ulceration was demonstrated with increasing reflux index value. even when ambulatory venous pressure was within the normal range, the index was found to be abnormal in ulcerated limbs because valsalva-induced foot venous pressure was elevated in these limbs. conversely, some patients with stasis ulceration and normal valsalva foot venous pressure elevation were found to have abnormal ambulatory venous pressure values, yielding an elevated reflux index. preliminary analysis indicates that reflux index may be a better predictor of surgical outcome after valve reconstruction procedures than either ambulatory venous pressure or valsalva-induced foot venous pressure elevation. the concept of reflux index is a hypothesis that attempts to explain inconsistencies observed in implicating ambulatory venous hypertension as the sole determinant of venous reflux.
the role of bacteria in pigment gallstone disease. one hundred ten of nine hundred sixty consecutive patients who underwent surgery for gallstones (gs) had pigment stones (ps) (11.45%). fifty brown pss contained calcium bilirubinate, small amounts of cholesterol, and always calcium palmitate, were usually found in the common duct (96%), and were almost always associated with bile infection (98%) and diffuse erosion of the biliary mucosa. fifty-one black pss contained bilirubin polymers, calcium carbonate, and/or phosphate, seldom cholesterol, and never evident amounts of calcium palmitate, were mostly found in the gallbladder, and were associated with hemolysis or liver damage and with hyperplastic cholecystosis. bile infection was found in 19.6% of cases, but bacteria were never found in the center of black pss by scanning electron microscopy. nine additional patients (8.2% of pss, 0.9% of gss) had concomitant black and brown pss that were mostly found in the common duct and were always associated with bile infection. it is suggested that, even if pss with concomitant black and brown material can be found, black and brown pss greatly differ not only in pathogenesis but also in clinical behavior and treatment. in particular bacterial infection is important only in the pathogenesis of brown pss while it plays no role in the initial formation of cholesterol, mixed or black gss.
spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b: patterns and natural history. we identified spontaneous reactivation of hepatitis b virus (hbv) retrospectively by utilizing serum alanine aminotransferase and hbv dna in 19 men (79% homosexual), with an estimated annual incidence of 7.3%. in 11 patients, spontaneous reactivation occurred as a single episode and in eight patients, reactivation was recurrent, with two to five episodes each. the mean serum alanine aminotransferase level was elevated over 10-fold at the peak of reactivation. serum anti-hbc igm was detected during 73% of the reactivation episodes. actuarial analysis revealed that reactivation was long lasting with 45% and nearly 20% of episodes continued after 6 and 24 months, respectively. the course of 24 chronic hbv carriers with a negative serum hbv dna test and normal alanine aminotransferase levels at initial appearance was unremarkable. we could not identify clinical features predictive of reactivation or its resolution. severe reactivation hepatitis occurred in three patients (10%), with two deaths (6%). none of the patients lost hbsag. spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b can appear variably, persist long term, recur, and be fatal. therefore, accurate classification of chronic hbv infection requires prolonged observation, and spontaneous reactivation should be considered a variable in therapeutic trials for chronic hepatitis b.
acupuncture and chronic pain: a criteria-based meta-analysis. a literature search revealed 51 controlled clinical studies on the effectiveness of acupuncture in chronic pain. these studies were reviewed using a list of 18 predefined methodological criteria. a maximum of 100 points for study design could be earned in four main categories: (a) comparability of prognosis, (b) adequate intervention, (c) adequate effect measurement and (d) data presentation. the quality of even the better studies proved to be mediocre. no study earned more than 62% of the maximum score. the results from the better studies (greater than or equal to 50% of the maximum score) are highly contradictory. the efficacy of acupuncture in the treatment of chronic pain remains doubtful.
a field study of the safety and efficacy of two candidate rotavirus vaccines in a native american population. a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a rhesus rotavirus vaccine and rit 4237, a bovine rotavirus vaccine, in a navajo population. infants aged 2-5 months were randomized to receive one dose of either 10(4) pfu of the rhesus rotavirus vaccine or 10(8) pfu of the rit 4237 vaccine or placebo. eleven (10.2%) of 108 infants in the rhesus vaccine group, 11 (10.4%) of 106 in the rit 4237 group, and 9 (8.4%) of 107 in the placebo group experienced rotavirus diarrhea during the follow-up period of 17 months. thus, in this population, neither vaccine was efficacious in preventing rotavirus diarrhea.
reduction in infarct size by the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine in dogs with coronary artery occlusion. it has been suggested that activation of tissue phospholipases may contribute to the development of ischemic cell injury. in the present study we sought to assess whether administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine would reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary artery occlusion. in open-chest, anesthetized dogs the left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated, and technetium-99-labeled albumin microspheres were injected into the left atrium to measure the area at risk. the animals were then randomly divided into a control group (n = 8) and a group receiving quinacrine (5 mg/kg intravenous bolus followed by a 40 micrograms/kg/min infusion for 6 hours; n = 9). the animals were killed 6 hours after occlusion, and the infarcted area was delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. the extent of the risk region was similar in the two groups (32.3 +/- 2.1% of the left ventricle in control dogs and 34.2 +/- 3.4% in quinacrine-treated dogs). infarct size was 86.4 +/- 8.8% of the risk region in control animals, whereas in treated dogs it averaged 62.3 +/- 6.4% of the risk region (p = 0.05). no differences were found in heart rate, arterial pressure, and rate-pressure product between the two groups. thus administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine reduced the extent of myocardial necrosis in a model of fixed coronary artery occlusion. preservation of membrane phospholipids, reduced formation of lipoxygenase metabolites, or both may mediate this phenomenon.
electrocardiographic subset analysis of diltiazem administration on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction. the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction trial research group. the effect of diltiazem on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction (ami) was assessed in 2,377 patients enrolled in the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction trial and subsequently followed for 25 +/- 8 months. the study population included 855 patients (36%) with at least 1 prior ami before the index infarction and 1,522 patients (64%) with a first ami, of whom 409 (27%) had a first non-q-wave ami, 664 (44%) a first inferior q-wave ami, and 449 (30%) a first anterior q-wave ami. this post hoc analysis revealed that, among patients with first non-q-wave and first inferior q-wave ami, there were fewer cardiac events during follow-up in the diltiazem than in the placebo group, and that the reverse was true for patients with first anterior q-wave ami or prior infarction. the diltiazem:placebo cox hazard ratio (95% confidence limits) for the trial primary end point (cardiac death or nonfatal reinfarction, whichever occurred first) was: first non-q-wave ami-0.48 (0.26, 0.89); first inferior q-wave ami-0.66 (0.40, 1.09); first anterior q-wave ami-0.82 (0.51, 1.31); and prior ami-1.11 (0.85, 1.44). use of cardiac death alone as an end point gave an even more sharply focused treatment difference: first non-q-wave ami-0.46 (0.18, 1.21); first inferior q-wave ami-0.53 (0.27, 1.06); first anterior q-wave ami-1.28 (0.68, 2.40); prior infarction-1.26 (0.90, 1.77). further analysis revealed that these differences in the effect of diltiazem in large part reflected the different status of the 4 electrocardiographically defined subsets in terms of left ventricular function.
spitz nevi in black children. four black children with spitz nevi are presented. the initial clinical diagnosis was pyogenic granuloma for three patients. one child had two spitz nevi. histologic examination revealed melanocytic dendritic hyperplasia in all cases.
changes in plasma homovanillic acid concentrations in schizophrenic patients following neuroleptic discontinuation. changes in plasma levels of the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid have been reported to correlate with changes in the severity of schizophrenic symptoms during neuroleptic administration and after neuroleptic discontinuation. this study examined the effects of discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment on plasma homovanillic acid levels in 23 patients with chronic schizophrenia. it was hypothesized that clinical decompensation would be associated with increased plasma homovanillic acid levels. plasma homovanillic acid was measured during administration of neuroleptic medication and during a subsequent 6-week drug-free period. nine patients decompensated during the drug-free period and 14 patients did not. following drug discontinuation, plasma homovanillic acid concentrations were higher in schizophrenic patients who decompensated than in those who did not. furthermore, peak plasma homovanillic acid elevation after discontinuation of neuroleptic medication was significantly correlated with peak brief psychiatric rating scale increase. the data suggest that, in some schizophrenic patients, symptomatic decompensation after discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment is associated with increases in dopamine turnover.
gleason's histologic grading as clinical prognostic marker in patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma. we have found that the gleason's histologic grading system is a good clinical marker to predict long-term response and prognosis in symptomatic stage d-2 adenocarcinoma of the prostate. in this retrospective study, 56 cases were reviewed and correlated with bone scan, acid phosphatase, and symptomatology following bilateral orchiectomy.
dissociation between pain and autonomic disturbances in cluster headache. the relationship between pain and autonomic disturbances in cluster headache was studied in 54 patients whose attack always recurred on the same side, and in 7 others whose attack had affected either side on different occasions. in one of these seven patients, facial flushing and ocular sympathetic deficit was observed on the original side of headaches. in most patients, the orbital region was warmer on the painful side but in three cases this region was cooler during and between attacks. lacrimation and rhinorrhoea were more common in severe attacks, and the temperature difference between the orbits increased with increasing severity of pain. these findings support the view that certain autonomic disturbances in cluster headache are provoked by pain. residual autonomic dysfunction could influence autonomic activity during cluster headache. if so, residual dysfunction on the pain-free side could explain the dissociation between autonomic disturbances and pain observed in a few cases.
reoperation for small intestinal obstruction. today, intestinal adhesions represent the most frequent etiology for complete or partial intestinal obstruction. although partial obstruction can be treated nonoperatively with a considerable likelihood of success, intestinal strangulation cannot uniformly be predicted or prevented. complete intestinal obstruction is associated with a significant incidence of strangulation if not treated by a vigorous surgical approach. consequently, complete intestinal obstruction secondary to adhesions is still a surgical disease. attempts at control of the adhesion process include mechanical methods to prevent subsequent obstruction and chemical methods to prevent the adhesion process itself. the invasive mechanical methods appear dated. a variety of agents have been used either systemically or in the peritoneal cavity to prevent the establishment of intra-abdominal adhesions. agents that do not contribute to subsequent morbidity or impede the native host defense mechanisms should be utilized. high-molecular-weight dextran and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents show some promise of being both safe and effective. as is frequently the case, the bottom line in preventing and treating intra-abdominal adhesions is appropriate surgical technique. intestinal adhesions can be related clearly to leaving damaged, devitalized, or ischemic tissue in the peritoneal cavity or to excessive roughness in handling of tissues. steps such as avoidance of excessive suture material and unnecessary handling of the bowel will do much to prevent subsequent adhesion generation. likewise, the surgical lysis of intraperitoneal adhesions is frequently fraught with complications such as intra-abdominal abscess or postoperative incisional failure. this is again related to surgical technique and most directly to the use of blunt dissection to divide adhesions. knife dissection in the lysis of adhesions is recommended. this technique, combined with excellent intraoperative hemostasis, can be associated with a marked diminution in the incidence of postoperative fistulas and abscesses.
prophylactic sclerotherapy for esophageal varices: long-term results of a single-center trial. survival after prophylactic sclerotherapy was assessed in a single-center study involving 99 cirrhotic (41 alcoholic) patients enrolled over 8-yr. the wedged hepatic vein pressure gradient was measured; those with pressure greater than or equal to 12 mm hg were randomized to receive sclerotherapy or no treatment. the rest were not randomized. patients in all three groups who bled were treated with emergency endoscopy and sclerotherapy. stratification according to presence of ascites was also undertaken. median follow-up was 61 mo (range = 14 to 107 mo). survival among unrandomized patients was significantly longer than among randomized patients (p less than 0.006), but there was no significant difference between those treated by sclerotherapy and the controls (p = 0.27). alcoholic cirrhotic patients undergoing sclerotherapy had better 2-yr survival than did the controls (80% vs. 43%; p = 0.09), but this benefit was not sustained at 5 yr. survival in the nonalcoholic patient groups was identical. only 10 of 50 deaths were caused by variceal bleeding. forty-eight percent of patients with large varices bled, compared with 20% of patients with small varices. wedged hepatic vein pressure less than 12 mm hg accurately identified alcoholic patients at low risk of variceal bleeding but not nonalcoholic patients. only four episodes of variceal bleeding were attributable to elective sclerotherapy. we conclude that in our population, prophylactic sclerotherapy alone does not improve survival. the discrepancy in survival between alcoholic and nonalcoholic cirrhotic patients suggests that factors other than variceal hemorrhage may be responsible for the difference.
neuropathological changes in transgenic mice carrying copies of a transcriptionally activated mos protooncogene [published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 may 1;88(9):4060] independent transgenic mouse lines carrying the mouse mos protooncogene linked to a retroviral transcriptional control sequence display behavioral abnormalities including circling, head tilting, and head bobbing. this dominant phenotype shows various degrees of penetrance in different transgenic founder animals and lines. neuronal and axonal degeneration, gliosis, and inflammatory infiltrates are found in all transgenic mouse lines in which behavioral traits are present. recordings of auditory-evoked potentials in mice of one of these lines demonstrate that transgenic mice are deaf; in these mice spiral ganglia degenerate and most of the cochlear hair cells are absent. by using an s1 nuclease protection assay, we have detected rna expression of the transgene in all tissues examined and, in particular, at high levels in brain. in situ hybridization experiments show that mos expression can be detected in specific areas of the central nervous system. lesions are present in areas with demonstrable overexpression of mos.
short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in 'contaminated' lower gastrointestinal surgery. in a prospective, open, randomized controlled trial, 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially "contaminated" lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime (2 gm) with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm). eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin. the groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis, procedure, type of anastomosis, and wound closure. the incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug (11.5 percent) was equivalent in the two groups. there was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group (22.2 percent) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group (25.7 percent). the incidence of wound infection (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 6.9 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 10 percent) and deep sepsis (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 15.3 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 15.7 percent) was similar.
axillary lymphadenectomy for intraductal carcinoma of the breast. during a ten year period, 175 axillary lymph node dissections were done as part of the treatment for intraductal carcinoma of the breast; 98 patients were treated with modified radical mastectomy and 77 were treated by mammary preservation, consisting of excision of the lesion, axillary dissection and radiation therapy. one of 175 axillary node dissections yielded positive nodes. axillary dissection for intraductal carcinoma of the breast is unlikely to yield involved nodes and is not indicated for use in most instances. it should be reserved for lesions demonstrating microinvasion.
late juvenile-onset krabbe's disease. krabbe's disease is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy characterized by a lack of galactocerebroside beta-galactosidase activity. in contrast to the classic early infantile-onset form of krabbe's disease, less recognized, late-onset variants exist. the authors present a case of late juvenile-onset krabbe's disease, including the associated magnetic resonance imaging (mri) findings. most patients with late-onset krabbe's disease present with visual loss due to optic atrophy. associated gait abnormalities and parental consanguinity should increase the clinician's suspicion that a child may have late-onset krabbe's disease. because of the prolonged survival in late-onset krabbe's disease, the recent development of bone marrow transplantation for these patient makes diagnosis of this disorder particularly important.
localization of 3h-dihydroergotamine-binding sites in the cat central nervous system: relevance to migraine. dihydroergotamine (dhe) is the treatment of choice in aborting the acute attack of migraine. although its efficacy has been known for 40 years, its mechanism of action is still disputed. data regarding the site of action of dihydroergotamine may provide an insight into its mechanism of action and thus identify a locus of potentially abnormal pathophysiology in migraine. by using in vitro and ex vivo autoradiographic techniques, the localization of specific binding sites for 3h-dihydroergotamine in the cat brain has been examined. binding was seen in the dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord, in the medulla, associated with the nucleus of the tractus solitarius, area postrema, and descending spinal trigeminal nucleus, and in the mesencephalon and the cerebral cortex. the highest density of binding sites was found in the dorsal and medial raphe nuclei of the midbrain. furthermore, these same brain regions were also labeled after intravenous administration of 3h-dihydroergotamine. it is important that the brain areas specifically labeled are key nuclei involved in cranial pain transmission, suggesting that dihydroergotamine may act at these central sites in migraine.
prospective study of a prosthetic h-graft portacaval shunt. this study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm gore-tex interposition h-graft portacaval shunt. thirty-six high-risk patients at the university of south florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period. portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting. these pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites; in addition, the incidence of encephalopathy was low. the 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67% of the patients, but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion. graft thrombosis occurred in four (11%) patients. all grafts were successfully revised, three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist. operative mortality was low (11%), and morbidity was unusual. the small-diameter h-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices.
reoperation versus alternatives in retained biliary calculi. retained common bile duct stones can be treated by operation, dissolution, extraction, fragmentation, papillotomy, and reoperation. each approach requires some expertise, and the likelihood of success of most depends on the composition and size of the stones. good results often can be obtained nonoperatively, especially with a multidisciplinary team. reoperation is rarely necessary.
use of single internal mammary artery grafts in older patients. the indications for use of the internal mammary artery as a coronary bypass conduit in older patients are not clearly established. between january 1985 and december 1988, 786 patients received single internal mammary artery grafts alone (717) or in conjunction with other procedures (69). of these patients, 341 were 65 years of age or older (mean, 69.3 years). this group was compared with those patients less than 65 years of age (mean, 56.2 years). there were no significant differences between the two groups in the incidence of diabetes mellitus; the number of distal coronary anastomoses; left ventricular wall motion score; the frequency of isolated bypass procedures, reoperations, or emergent operations; or the durations of aortic clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass. the older group contained more women (34.9% versus 20.7%) and more patients with left main coronary artery disease (15.5% versus 9.4%) (p less than 0.01). no significant differences in the frequency of reoperation for hemorrhage, perioperative infarction, neurological deficits, requirements for intra-aortic balloon pumping, sternal wound infections, necessity for prolonged ventilatory support, or 30-day mortality (2.7% versus 3.2%) were observed. the length of postoperative hospitalization was greater in the older group (11.8 versus 10.2 days) (p = 0.02). blinded histological examination of biopsies from 61 internal mammary artery grafts (34 patients less than 65 years, 27 patients greater than or equal to 65 years) showed no significant differences in luminal area or wall thickness. no significant degenerative changes were observed in either group. we conclude that the use of the internal mammary artery for bypass grafting in older patients is safe and may provide long-term benefit.
fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation. to determine the effect of fibrin glue on intra-abdominal adhesion formation, 45 rats were randomized to three groups. each animal received two adhesion models. group 1 received no further treatment. groups 2 and 3 had the adhesion models covered with fibrinogen from fresh frozen plasma (1.77 g/l) and cryoprecipitate (23.6 g/l), respectively. in group 1, 13 of 15 rats had high-grade adhesions in both models. in group 2, high-grade adhesions were noted in nine of 15 rats in model 1 and in 12 of 15 rats in model 2. in group 3, however, high-grade adhesions were seen in only three of 15 rats in model 1, with 11 rats having no adhesions, and in only two of 15 rats in model 2. histologic analysis suggested accelerated healing in group 3. we conclude that (1) fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation in rats, (2) the inhibitory action is dependent on the fibrinogen concentration of the fibrin glue, and (3) adhesions are reduced by fibrin glue regardless of whether the peritoneal defect is closed.
noninvasive discrimination of right atrial ectopic tachycardia from sinus tachycardia in "dilated cardiomyopathy". right atrial ectopic tachycardia (raet) with secondary cardiac dysfunction can be difficult to differentiate from primary dilated cardiomyopathy (cmp) with sinus tachycardia. in an attempt to separate raet from cmp by noninvasive testing, routine surface electrocardiograms (eggs), 24-hour ambulatory ecgs (holter monitors), and echocardiograms of patients with raet (n = 34) and cmp (n = 33) were reviewed. raet atrial rates were significantly faster than cmp rates on the resting ecg and on holter monitoring; 12 of 33 patients with raet had resting ecg rates greater than 150% of predicted normal values for age but none of 32 patients with cmps had resting ecg rates in this range. mean p wave axis in the horizontal plane was more posterior in patients with raet and was less than 0 degrees (negative in lead v2) in 8 of 29 patients with raet but in 1 of 33 patients with cmp. second-degree atrioventricular (av) block was observed in 12 of 33 patients with raet but in none of 33 with cmp. shortening fraction less than 10% was found in 13 of 33 individuals with cmp but in only 1 of 27 with raet. we conclude that noninvasive studies can help identify raet among patients with poor functioning hearts and right atrial tachycardia.
efficacy of propafenone in preventing ventricular tachycardia: inverse correlation with rate-related prolongation of conduction time the efficacy of propafenone in preventing induction of ventricular tachycardia was evaluated in 25 consecutive patients (mean age 62 +/- 8 years) with remote myocardial infarction who underwent programmed electrical stimulation for ventricular arrhythmia using up to three extra-stimuli after basic drive at the right ventricular apex. in nine patients (group a), propafenone prevented induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia (noninducible in four, nonsustained [less than 30 s] in five). in the other 16 patients (group b), sustained ventricular tachycardia was still inducible; in 11 of the 16, the tachycardia configuration was unchanged but the cycle length was significantly longer (431 +/- 99 versus 284 +/- 44 ms, p less than 0.001). propafenone did not significantly affect either sinus cycle length or ah and hv intervals. however, it prolonged qrs duration during sinus rhythm equally in both groups of patients. with ventricular pacing, propafenone also prolonged right ventricular effective and functional refractory periods and surface qrs duration. there was greater lengthening of the paced surface qrs duration when drug therapy was ineffective (for example, +35 +/- 12 ms in group a versus +69 +/- 23 ms in group b at a basic drive of 400 ms, p less than 0.01). drug-induced prolongation of a paced qrs complex greater than 40 ms had a 94% positive predictive value for drug failure to prevent induction of ventricular tachycardia. drug-induced percent prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length in group b did not correlate well with percent qrs prolongation.
necrolytic migratory erythema: association with neuroendocrine tumour with predominant insulin secretion. we report a case of necrolytic migratory erythema in association with a neuroendocrine tumour producing predominantly insulin. as far as we know this has not been observed before.
effect of splenectomy on morbidity and survival following curative gastrectomy for carcinoma. we performed a retrospective analysis of 392 patients who underwent curative resection of gastric adenocarcinoma to evaluate the impact of splenectomy on survival from gastric cancer and postoperative morbidity. twelve factors, including splenectomy, were associated with a poor prognosis by univariate analysis. multivariate analysis identified six of these factors, but not splenectomy, as independently predictive of death due to gastric cancer. the apparent adverse effect of splenectomy was due to its association with other significant risk factors. postoperative complications occurred more commonly in patients who underwent splenectomy than in those who did not (45% vs 21%); patients in the splenectomy group also had a higher percentage of infectious complications than those in the nonsplenectomy group (75% vs 47%). we conclude that splenectomy has no direct influence on survival, but that it increases the morbidity of curative gastrectomy and should be avoided unless the spleen is close to or invaded by the tumor.
tumor-targeted chemotherapy with lipid contrast medium and macromolecular anticancer drug (smancs) for renal cell carcinoma. twenty-five patients with renal cell carcinoma were treated with a lipophilic macromolecular drug, poly(stylene-co-maleic acid)-conjugated neocarzinostatin (smancs) dissolved in lipid contrast medium (lipiodol). the drug was injected by catheterizing the renal artery and another feeding artery in 24 patients, and in the common hepatic artery in 1 patient with metastases to the liver after a radical nephrectomy. the procedure of selective arterial administration of 3-20 mg/ml of smancs/lipiodol was simple to perform and was required once every two to three weeks. total dose of smancs for each patient varied from 3 to 57 mg. both smancs and lipiodol accumulated more selectively in tumor than in any other tissue and remained in the neovasculature and extracapillary space for a long time. ct pattern of the remaining oil contrast medium in the tumor was characterized by the high-density area localized mainly in the periphery of the tumor around the central necrosis. when hyperviscosity lipiodol (lipiodol hv) was used as lipid contrast medium, it remained more persistently in the tumor and disappeared more slowly than lipiodol. moreover, the pronounced anticancer effect was recognized when smancs/lipiodol hv was administered compared with only smancs/lipiodol. severe side effects, such as myelosuppression, unendurable pain, paralytic ileus, etc., were not observed. this targeting chemotherapy may be of great significance for advanced renal cell carcinoma.
hemiparetic multiple sclerosis. eight patients are described who presented with hemiparesis which involved the face in seven. six of the eight subsequently developed clinically definite multiple sclerosis and in the remaining two patients multiple sclerosis was the likely diagnosis. magnetic resonance imaging gave useful information about the site of the lesions responsible for the presenting syndrome and provided additional information in support of a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis.
improvement in early diastolic filling dynamics after aortic valve replacement. with use of ultrafast computed tomography, 13 patients undergoing aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis were prospectively followed to evaluate the relation between left ventricular mass and diastolic function. studies were done before intervention, and then at 4 and 8 months later. mass decreased from 161 +/- 11 g/m2 (+/- standard error of the mean) at baseline to 106 +/- 5 g/m2, and then to 97 +/- 7 g/m2 at 4 and 8 months, respectively, in 12 patients who demonstrated significant (greater than 20%) mass regression after operation. one patient failed to show significant changes in mass. diastolic function, as defined by the peak filling rate of early diastole, improved (p less than 0.02) in the group with mass regression, from 2.11 +/- 0.17 s-1 at baseline to 2.12 +/- 0.23 s-1, and then to 2.62 +/- 0.26 s-1 at 4 and 8 months, respectively. improvement in the time to peak filling rate was also noted. heart rates were unchanged, whereas end-diastolic volumes decreased and ejection fractions increased slightly. postoperative increase in peak filling rate correlated with regression of ventricular mass to within normal range (+/- 2 standard deviations) and attainment of new york heart association class i status by 8 months (p less than 0.02). thus, improvement in diastolic function can be seen after aortic valve surgery and is associated with improved functional class. diastolic function improves later than the regression in wall mass and may imply a delayed remodeling of the ventricle.
a prospective, randomized, double-blind, crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of chronic nifedipine therapy with that of isosorbide dinitrate and their combination in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure we performed a prospective, randomized, double-blind, crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of vasodilation with the calcium entry blocker nifedipine with that of isosorbide dinitrate (isdn) and their combination as treatment for heart failure. twenty-eight patients with new york heart association functional class ii or iii chronic heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction were studied. all patients were maintained on a constant dose of digitalis and diuretics throughout the study. eight weeks of therapy with nifedipine alone or in combination with isdn resulted in a significantly higher incidence of heart failure deterioration necessitating hospitalizations and/or additional diuretics. twenty-four percent of patients required hospitalization during nifedipine therapy and 26% required hospitalization during nifedipine-isdn combination therapy in comparison to 0% requiring hospitalization during isdn therapy alone. the total number of heart failure-worsening episodes was nine among patients on nifedipine, three among patients on isdn (p less than 0.09 versus nifedipine), and 21 among patients on nifedipine-isdn combination (p less than 0.001 versus nifedipine, p less than 0.0001 versus isdn). premature discontinuation of drug administration due to clinical deterioration or other side effects occurred in 29% of patients during nifedipine therapy, 5% of patients during isdn therapy (p = 0.05 versus nifedipine), and 19% of patients during the combination therapy. a comparison of eight patients who demonstrated clinical deterioration on nifedipine with the remainder of the patients demonstrated no significant difference in left ventricular ejection fraction (0.24 +/- 0.06 versus 0.23 +/- 0.07) or maximal oxygen uptake during exercise (13 +/- 3 versus 14 +/- 2 ml/kg/min).
vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors we used an investigational technique for the biopsy of intraocular tumors to aid in the diagnosis of three choroidal tumors. a three-port trans-pars plana vitrectomy was performed in conjunction with retinotomy, tumor biopsy, endophotocoagulation, and air-fluid exchange. vitrectomy was used to decrease the amount of traction secondary to retained vitreous after intraocular surgery. retinotomy sites were chosen under microscopic control to avoid large caliber retinal vessels. then a modified tumor-aspiration technique, together with endophotocoagulation and aspiration of intraoperative vitreous hemorrhages, provided an opportunity to sample tumor tissue continually at varied depths. we have added standard vitreous surgery concepts, techniques, and instrumentation to produce vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors.
axial loading injuries to the middle cervical spine segment. an analysis and classification of twenty-five cases. injuries to the cervical spine at the c3-c4 level involving the bony elements, intervertebral disks, and ligamentous structures are rare. we present 25 cases of traumatic c3-c4 injuries sustained by young athletes and documented by the national football head and neck injury registry. review of the cases reveals that the response of energy inputs at the c3-c4 level differ from those involving the upper (c1-c2) and lower (c4-c5-c6-c7) cervical segments. specifically, the c3-c4 lesions appear to be unique with regard to the infrequency of bony fracture, difficulty in effecting and maintaining reduction, and a more favorable recovery following early, aggressive treatment. in the majority of instances, injury at this level results from axial loading of the cervical spine. lesions were distributed into specific categories: 1) acute intervertebral disc herniation (n = 4), 2) anterior subluxation of c3 on c4 (n = 4), 3) unilateral facet dislocation (n = 6), 4) bilateral facet dislocation (n = 7), and 5) fracture of vertebral body c4 (n = 4). analysis of these 25 cases suggests that traumatic lesions of the cervical spine in general can be classified as involving the upper (c1-c2), middle (c3-c4), or lower (c4-c7) segments. this is based on our observations from this series that c3-c4 lesions 1) generally do not involve fracture of the bony elements; 2) acute intervertebral disc herniations are frequently associated with transient quadriplegia; 3) reduction of anterior subluxation of c3 on c4 is difficult to maintain; 4) reduction of unilateral facet dislocation is difficult to obtain by skeletal traction and is best managed by closed manipulation and reduction under general anesthesia; and 5) reduction of bilateral facet dislocation is difficult to obtain by skeletal traction and is best managed by open methods. the more favorable results observed in this series of immediate reduction of both unilateral and bilateral facet dislocations deserves emphasis. in two cases of unilateral facet dislocation reduced within 3 hours of injury and subsequently fused anteriorly, significant neurologic recovery occurred. the other four patients, two who underwent an open reduction and laminectomy and two treated closed with skeletal traction, remained quadriplegic. in the four instances of bilateral facet dislocation where reduction was achieved by either closed or open methods, although there was no neurologic recovery, all four patients survived their injuries. however, the three patients who were not successfully reduced died.
problems of resistant dermatophytes. recalcitrant fungal infections are defined as infections that are difficult or impossible to eradicate despite seemingly adequate treatment with appropriate oral or parenteral antibiotics. relative or absolute microbial resistance is only one of the many causes of recalcitrance. others include failure of the patient to comply with the prescribed treatment regimen, drug degradation in the liver, drug-drug interactions, reabsorption or washout of the drug from the stratum corneum, and failure of the drug to reach the stratum corneum. excretion in the eccrine sweat is the principal pathway by which griseofulvin and ketoconazole, the two currently available oral antifungal agents, are delivered to the stratum corneum. measures that promote delivery of these drugs to this site by enhancing sweating and minimizing drug run-off and absorption onto clothing may aid in optimizing the therapeutic response to these agents.
long-term follow-up in isolated ventricular septal defect considered too small to warrant operation. an isolated ventricular septal defect (vsd) was diagnosed in 70 patients (39 men and 31 women, mean age 29 years, range 10-64 years). surgery was judged unnecessary. the follow-up period was at least 10 years, or until death or 31 december 1988, comprising a mean duration of 21 (range 6-29) years. the mortality was 11/69 (one lost to follow-up), and was not significantly higher than in a matched 'normal' group. six deaths were cardiac, four of which could probably be related to the vsd. the follow-up study revealed that: (1) 14 (22%) subjects had major, vsd-related complications, and cardiac surgery was indicated in eight patients; (2) six (10%) had minor complications. by the end of 1988, 24% of subjects had significant dyspnoea, 22% had chest pain and 19% used cardioactive drugs. only 33% were receiving regular cardiac control in a hospital. thus unoperated adults with a small vsd should be monitored closely, since this condition is far from benign.
very high blood pressure in acute stroke. in a study sample consisting of 388 unselected, consecutive acute stroke patients, 27 with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 200 mmhg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 115 mmhg were compared with the other 361 patients. the patients with high blood pressure were younger (65 vs. 73 years) and much more often had a history of hypertension (78 vs. 42%). cardiac and vascular hypertensive manifestations were more frequent, particularly when only those patients with a history of hypertension were compared in the two groups. alcohol abuse was mentioned in a higher proportion of hypertensives in the summaries of their medical records. no definite conclusions could be drawn with regard to the size and location of the brain lesions. clinical symptoms did not differ between the groups, neither did the proportion of patients who could be discharged from hospital immediately. mortality was higher in the high blood pressure group (30 vs. 14%, p less than 0.05). thus the characteristics of patients with very high blood pressure were: younger age, much more frequent and severe previous hypertension. alcohol abuse might be an important factor. the type, size and location of the brain lesion itself could not be statistically related to the high blood pressure, but very large lesions, particularly haemorrhages, might be associated with a reactive blood pressure response.
progression of peripheral occlusive arterial disease in diabetes mellitus. what factors are predictive? the clinical, biochemical, and vascular laboratory measurements potentially associated with the development and/or progression of peripheral occlusive arterial disease (poad) were assessed during a 4-year period in 110 normal control subjects, 112 patients with poad without diabetes mellitus, 240 patients with diabetes mellitus without poad, and 100 patients with diabetes mellitus and poad. age, history of hypertension or coronary heart disease, history of cigarette smoking, presence of poad, systolic blood pressure, and beta-thromboglobulin level were associated with progression of poad. a multivariate logistic regression model indicated that the presence of diabetes mellitus or poad or both at baseline, decreased postexercise ankle-brachial index, increased arm systolic blood pressure, and current smoking were independently associated with progression of poad. this study suggests that cessation of smoking and control of hypertension are essential treatment modifications to decrease the risk of progression of peripheral vascular disease in diabetic patients.
lymphomas of the breast. a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of primary and secondary cases. primary mammary lymphoma is rare, and little is known about the immunophenotype of such cases. the authors studied both primary and secondary breast lymphomas with a broad panel of t- and b-cell markers using paraffin-embedded tissue and the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase method. cases of primary b-cell lymphoma were further tested to determine light and heavy chain type. thirty-five cases were analyzed, including 16 primary lymphomas. diffuse large cell lymphoma was present in ten of 16 primary and 14 of 18 secondary cases. lymphoepithelial lesions in ducts and lobules and frequent vascular involvement were found in both primary and secondary cases. immunohistochemistry studies on 13 tumors revealed all of the primary tumors to be b-cell in origin, except for one case of primary t-cell lymphoma; to the authors' knowledge, this represents the first description of this entity. fifteen of 17 secondary tumors exhibited b-cell markers and one of 17 exhibited t-cell markers; in only one case could lineage not be determined. among primary b-cell cases, igm was found to be the most frequent heavy chain type; iga reactivity was found in only one case. survival was related to stage and histologic characteristics; patients with stage ii disease and higher grade histologic lesions had a worse prognosis. half of the patients with primary lymphoma have had recurrent disease. although local recurrences were observed, the authors also saw a tendency for recurrence in other extranodal sites. the authors conclude that, although primary lymphoma of the breast is compatible with long-term survival, a significant number of patients eventually die of their disease. as with other extranodal lymphomas, survival rate appears most related to stage of disease. also, the vast majority of primary tumors are b-cell in origin, express igm heavy chain, and can be considered tumors of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue.
a new diagnostic test for carpal tunnel syndrome. a new test, called the carpal compression test, consists of application of direct pressure on the carpal tunnel and the underlying median nerve. the results of the tinel percussion test, the phalen wrist-flexion test, and the new test were evaluated in thirty-one patients (forty-six hands) in whom the presence of carpal tunnel syndrome had been proved electrodiagnostically, as well as in a control group of fifty subjects. for the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome, the carpal compression test was found to be more sensitive and specific than the tinel and phalen tests.
toxic shock syndrome after inguinal hernia repair. report of a case with patient survival. a 40-year-old man developed fulminant multisystem failure several days after elective repair of an inguinal hernia. toxic shock syndrome (tss) was diagnosed. there was, however, no evidence of wound infection at the time of multisystem failure. only later in his hospital course did the wound drain. staphylococcus aureus was cultured from the wound and was the presumed etiologic agent in the patient's life-threatening illness. the patient recovered fully with supportive care, antibiotics, and surgical debridement of the inguinal hernia site. this case is discussed in the context of existing literature on the toxic shock syndrome. the site of infection is typically nonsuppurative, but the systemic manifestations are typically life threatening. the responsible organism is commonly believed to be a strain of s. aureus that expresses a toxin (tss toxin-1) that effects multisystem failure, but which also diminishes the local inflammatory response and explains the benign appearance of the wound. although this is a rare clinical entity, elective surgical procedures complicated by fatal tss have been reported. surgeons should understand this disease and the management necessary to avert mortality.
transcranial doppler in acute hemispheric brain infarction. we studied cerebrovascular anatomy using intra-arterial digital angiography, and blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (mca) using transcranial doppler (tcd) ultrasonography in 42 patients with acute hemispheric ischemic brain infarction. we compared angiography with tcd and the clinical findings within 6 hours of the onset of symptoms. the location and extent of the chronic ischemic brain damage was assessed by ct performed 1 to 3 months after the ictus. abnormal tcd, as manifested by either an unobtainable mca flow signal or a significantly depressed mca flow velocity, was highly associated with proximal mca occlusions demonstrated by angiography. abnormal tcd predicted both larger chronic ct lesions and more extensive ischemic change within the mca territory. these data demonstrate that early tcd conveys useful information concerning cerebral tissue prognosis following hemispheric ischemia.
norfloxacin prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence in cirrhosis: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. eighty cirrhotic patients who had recovered from an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were included in a multicenter, double-blind trial aimed at comparing long-term norfloxacin administration (400 mg/day; 40 patients) vs. placebo (40 patients) in the prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence. at entry, both groups were similar with respect to clinical and laboratory data, ascitic fluid protein and polymorphonuclear concentrations, number of previous episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and causative organisms of the index spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. norfloxacin administration produced a selective intestinal decontamination (elimination of aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the fecal flora without significant changes in other microorganisms) throughout the study in six patients in whom the effect of norfloxacin on the fecal flora was periodically assessed. fourteen patients from the placebo group (35%) and five from the norfloxacin group (12%) developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence during follow-up (chi 2 = 5.97; p = 0.014) (mean follow-up period = 6.4 +/- 0.6 mo; range = 1 to 19 mo). ten of the 14 spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the placebo group and only one of the five spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the norfloxacin group were caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli (chi 2 = 8.87; p = 0.0029). the overall probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence at 1 yr of follow-up was 20% in the norfloxacin group and 68% in the placebo group (p = 0.0063) and the probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli at 1 yr of follow-up was 3% and 60%, respectively (p = 0.0013).
cerebral hemodynamics in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus: correlation between cerebral circulation time and dementia. regional cerebral blood flow and regional cerebral circulation time were measured in 13 demented patients with chronic hydrocephalus, mostly normal pressure hydrocephalus. the average hemispheric, frontal, and temporal cerebral blood flows were significantly reduced. the average regional cerebral circulation time values were significantly prolonged in the frontal, temporal, and thalamic regions, most markedly in the frontal white matter, where periventricular lucency was observed on computed tomography. clinical improvement was obtained in all patients after operation. while postoperative regional cerebral blood flow values did not change compared with preoperative ones, postoperative regional cerebral circulation time values were significantly reduced in all the regions measured, and most markedly in the frontal white matter. the present results suggest that microcirculation in the frontal lobe is closely correlated with dementia in association with pressure exerted on the nerve fibers in the frontal white matter in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus.
etoposide in the management of metastatic breast cancer. etoposide, despite extensive use in other malignancies, has played a minor role in the treatment of patients with breast cancer. single-agent trials in which etoposide is administered to heavily pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer have demonstrated a low overall response rate (6.6% of 383 patients), with no convincing evidence for either schedule dependence or a relationship between dose intensity and response. the sole single-agent trial in previously untreated patients suggested that the drug has an approximately 15% response rate in untreated patients. combination therapy trials in which etoposide has been combined with either cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, or cisplatin have not yet convincingly demonstrated superiority over any of these drugs as single agents, although cisplatin plus etoposide appears to be superior to either agent alone. in vitro studies suggest that pretreating hormone-sensitive breast cancer cells with estradiol may increase their sensitivity to etoposide-induced dna cleavage. this may represent a future direction in the use of etoposide in breast cancer. currently, however, the use of etoposide in breast cancer should be considered investigational.
late recurrence of varus deformity after proximal tibial osteotomy. one hundred thirteen knees with medial gonarthrosis in 95 patients were treated by valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomy and followed clinically and roentgenographically for a minimum of five years (mean, 6.3 years). sixty-four knees (57%) were pain free or had only mild discomfort when walking. the standing femorotibial angle decreased from a postoperative average of 9.3 degrees valgus to 7.8 degrees valgus at the final follow-up examination. the tendency for varus recurrence greater than 5 degrees and for medial- or lateral-compartment arthritic progression was evaluated using the kaplan-meier survival method. varus recurred in 18%, lateral-compartment arthritic progression in 60%, and medial-compartment arthritic progression in 83% by nine years after surgery. the probability of arthritic progression is much higher than the probability of significant varus recurrence in long-term roentgenographic follow-up studies of patients with valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomies.
predicting recurrence time of esophageal carcinoma through assessment of histologic factors and dna ploidy. cytophotometric analysis of nuclear dna content was done in 128 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. the relationship among histopathologic features, dna distribution pattern, and survival time was investigated from the standpoint of recurrence. of 128 patients, 77 (60.1%) died of recurrence within 2 years after surgery: 16 (12.5%) from 2 to 5 years and two (1.6%) over 5 years. the rate of death of recurrence within 2 years was higher in patients with t4 or n1 than t1, t2, and t3 or n0 (p less than 0.01). survivors over 5 years more frequently possessed type ii dna pattern than types iii and iv (p less than 0.05). the rate of death of recurrence within 2 years was 34.4% in type ii, which was lower than the 59.6% rate in type iii (p less than 0.05) and the 76.6% rate in type iv (p less than 0.01). survivors from 2 to 5 years were higher in type iii than in type iv (p less than 0.05), and recurrence over 5 years was found only in type ii. this inclination was more apparent in those with curative resection. in the patients with type ii, careful follow-up may be needed over 5 years for late recurrence. however, in those with type iv, no recurrence over 2 years could be regarded as healed because most of their recurrences occur within 2 years. these findings suggest that the growth rate of esophageal carcinoma should reflect dna aneuploidy, and the dna analysis of esophageal carcinoma should be a valuable parameter for postoperative follow-up planning.
chronic diarrhea in essential mixed cryoglobulinemia: a manifestation of visceral vasculitis? gastrointestinal involvement occurs frequently in essential mixed cryoglobulinemia, and most often involves the liver and spleen. intestinal involvement is much less common and is generally felt to be a late and often catastrophic manifestation of the disease due to severe vasculitis. occasionally, the disorder mimics inflammatory bowel disease, both clinically and radiographically. we recently cared for a patient with essential mixed cryoglobulinemia who developed persistent diarrhea. endoscopic evaluation revealed scattered petechial lesions in the duodenum and colon as well as prominent lymphoid hyperplasia in the terminal ileum. mucosal biopsies disclosed the presence of diffuse inflammation. we suggest that this patient's diarrhea was due to intestinal vasculitis and that prominent ileal lymphoid hyperplasia may be a manifestation of essential mixed cryoglobulinemia.
spectral analysis of tremor: understanding the results. spectral analysis of a tremor record can sometimes produce a spectrum with multiple components of significant amplitude. the problem is to determine whether the presence of several peaks represents the coexistence of separate tremor mechanisms or be a consequence of fluctuations in the frequency or amplitude of a single tremor. the spectrum of a tremor whose frequency or amplitude vary and are independent has the recognisable pattern of a central carrier frequency with sidebands of equal amplitudes distributed symmetrically around the carrier. however, if tremor amplitude and frequency fluctuate and are not independent, (frequency proportional to amplitude or frequency inversely proportional to amplitude), the spectrum has a pattern of sidebands which are asymmetrical in amplitudes and may resemble the spectrum of the combined signal from different independent oscillators. the investigation of sidebands in spectra has been neglected in tremor studies and multiple irregular peaks on a tremor spectrum have sometimes been used wrongly as evidence for the coexistence of multiple tremor mechanisms or frequency components assumed to be concurrent.
late results of the left subcostal approach for automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation. a left subcostal surgical approach was used to implant an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (aicd) in 48 patients with a history of nonfatal cardiac arrest or documented ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation. electrophysiologic studies before surgery yielded induction of monomorphic or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in 40 patients, whereas 8 were noninducible. mean (+/- standard deviation) age was 58 +/- 12 years. mean ejection fraction was 33 +/- 16%. thirty patients (63%) had documented coronary artery disease; 14 patients (29%) had previous coronary bypass surgery. the mean intraoperative defibrillation threshold was 13.8 +/- 6.6 j. in 6 patients, an adjunctive right minithoracotomy was used to position 1 patch over the right atrium and thus optimize the defibrillation threshold. patients with prior exposure to amiodarone and previous coronary bypass surgery had higher defibrillation thresholds at implantation. two perioperative deaths occurred. there were no infections. long-term follow-up yielded a 1- and 5-year survival of 0.88 and 0.58, respectively, and a freedom from sudden cardiac death of 1.0 and 0.97, respectively. the nonthoracotomy, left subcostal surgical approach is safe and effective, provides adequate defibrillation thresholds in most patients, and yields long-term survival comparable to other implantation techniques.
future directions for etoposide therapy. etoposide is an important chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of selected patients with germ cell tumors, lymphomas, and small cell lung cancer (sclc). its optimal use is continuing to evolve. it is clear that schedule dependency is of critical importance. recently, preliminary studies have suggested that a prolonged schedule of etoposide administration (21 days) may be more effective than the standard 3- to 5-day schedule. results of several phase ii studies show chronic oral etoposide administration induces occasional responses in resistant tumors and higher-than-expected response rates in patients with germ cell tumors and sclc. preliminary data show nearly 90% etoposide absorption when given in a low-dose schedule (50 mg/m2/d) for 21 days. these observations indicate that etoposide may be a "new drug" when given in the chronic schedule. further exploration of the schedule dependency of etoposide is indicated. etoposide has recently been proven useful in selected patients with gastric, ovarian, and poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site. several other drugs are either synergistic or additive and will be explored in combination chemotherapy. the possibility of adding topoisomerase i inhibitors and modulating etoposide's activity by inhibiting drug resistance is now within the realm of human testing.
reactions of first-year medical students to their initial encounter with a cadaver in the dissecting room. this study reports the results of a 1986 questionnaire survey of 100 first-year medical students regarding their preparation for and reactions to their first encounter with a human cadaver in the dissecting room. the students were aware of psychological and physical reactions to this experience, and although they felt adequately prepared prior to the class, expressed a desire for greater preparation afterwards, particularly through more discussion of the experience with the anatomy staff. a surprising number of the students (62) had had prior exposure to a dead human body, which was a significant influence upon their reactions. the results of this study suggest a need for improving both the preparation for coping with dissection and the follow-up opportunities for dealing with professional and emotional issues raised during human dissection.
primary cutaneous b-cell lymphoma: a unique type of low-grade lymphoma. clinicopathologic and immunologic study of 83 cases. the clinical presentation and course, and the morphoimmunologic features of primary cutaneous b-cell lymphoma (cbcl) were investigated in a series of 83 patients. fifty-one patients were male and 32 were female (male-to-female ratio of 1.6:1); cbcl primarily involved the elderly (median age, 58 years). a locoregional extension of the disease was quite frequent (86.7%). the neoplastic cells showed a range of appearances reminiscent of the whole spectrum of follicular/parafollicular cells. the antigenic phenotype of tumor cells (cd19+, cd20+, cd22+, cd28+, cd10-, cd5-, mb2+, cd74+/-, cdw75+/-, mt2+/-, surface immunoglobulin + monoclonal/-) plus the presence of admixed cd14- dendritic reticulum cells suggest a mantle-zone nature for cbcl. the nonaggressive clinical behavior with a substantial tendency to remain localized to a limited area of the skin, the quite good response to nonaggressive treatment, and the dichotomy existing between the enhancement of morphoimmunologic atypism--which parallels the increasing age and growth rate of lesions--and the constant benign overall prognosis on long-term follow-up make cbcl a unique type of lymphoma of low-grade malignancy. proper recognition of cbcl is mandatory to avoid possible undertreatment or overtreatment of the patients affected.
decreasing the risk of human immunodeficiency virus or hepatitis b virus infection during endoscopic surgery. the risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis b virus infection is small but finite. urological surgeons are exposed through needle punctures in open surgery and splashes during endoscopic surgery. safety glasses are difficult to use during endoscopic surgery and they do not offer complete protection. the steri-shield, a facial shield designed to be fixed to the endoscope, is described.
diffusing capacity of the lung and nifedipine in systemic sclerosis. lung involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due in part to a functional abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature. to investigate the possible role of a pulmonary vasospastic process in this disorder, 21 non-smoking patients who had no evidence of cardiac disease or pulmonary hypertension were evaluated with pulmonary function tests prior to administration of nifedipine, 30 minutes after a single oral dose of nifedipine (20 mg), and after 4 weeks of treatment with nifedipine (10 mg 3 times daily). treatment with nifedipine did not significantly change any of the pulmonary function values, except for the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (dlco). the linear trend between the individual dlco values at baseline and their changes immediately following the initial 20-mg dose of nifedipine (r = -0.603, p = 0.02) and after 4 weeks of treatment (r = -0.636, p = 0.01) showed that the lower the dlco value at baseline, the greater the improvement caused by nifedipine. these findings support the hypothesis of a potentially reversible pulmonary vasospasm in systemic sclerosis and suggest that nifedipine may be useful in the treatment of lung disease in these patients; however, further studies are needed.
vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors we used an investigational technique for the biopsy of intraocular tumors to aid in the diagnosis of three choroidal tumors. a three-port trans-pars plana vitrectomy was performed in conjunction with retinotomy, tumor biopsy, endophotocoagulation, and air-fluid exchange. vitrectomy was used to decrease the amount of traction secondary to retained vitreous after intraocular surgery. retinotomy sites were chosen under microscopic control to avoid large caliber retinal vessels. then a modified tumor-aspiration technique, together with endophotocoagulation and aspiration of intraoperative vitreous hemorrhages, provided an opportunity to sample tumor tissue continually at varied depths. we have added standard vitreous surgery concepts, techniques, and instrumentation to produce vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors.
sphenoid sinusitis, a cause of debilitating headache. we present a case of sphenoid sinusitis resulting in a debilitating headache refractory to both oral and intramuscular analgesics. despite an aggressive evaluation in the emergency department, the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment were delayed. recognition of sphenoid sinusitis, the complications associated with it, and the need for aggressive management are addressed.
the course of the hiv epidemic among intravenous drug users in amsterdam, the netherlands. to determine if behavioral changes in intravenous drug users in amsterdam have retarded the hiv (human immunodeficiency virus) epidemic in this group in recent years, we report that: hiv-antibody seroprevalence in annual samples of injectors has been constant over the years 1986-89; hiv-antibody incidence in a cohort of injectors appears to have decreased from 1986 to 1987 and stabilized after that until 1989; acute hepatitis b incidence in all drug users in amsterdam declined rapidly between 1985-89. it is concluded that changes in drug use behavior so far appear to have resulted in a stabilization of the epidemic among injectors, at a level with a still disturbingly high incidence rate of 5-6 per 100 person-years.
invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible presenting as a chronic osteomyelitis: report of a case. a case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible initially thought to be chronic osteomyelitis is reviewed. discussion of the origin of the tumor and several imaging techniques used for differentiating maxillofacial infection from neoplasm are discussed. the difficulty of diagnosis of chronic painful maxillofacial lesions illustrates the need for a high degree of suspicion concerning any inflammatory lesion not responding to appropriate therapy. accurate diagnosis and treatment of such lesions most often necessitates microscopic examination.
self-management of dietary compliance in coeliac disease by means of elisa "home test" to detect gluten. to improve compliance with a gluten-free diet in coeliac disease a simple prototype test kit was developed to detect gluten in foods for use at home. the test is based on monoclonal antibodies to heat-stable gluten proteins which crossreact appropriately with barley and rye proteins. it is suitable for use with a wide range of raw or cooked foods. the food is extracted with dilute hydrochloric acid and 1 drop of the extract transferred to an antibody-coated tube; enzyme-labelled gluten detection antibody is added and after 3 min the tube is washed and colour developer is added. the reaction is stopped after 2 min, stabilising the blue colour. the home kit was compared with a quantitative laboratory kit, and the qualitative agreement was very good. the kit could distinguish foods with trace gluten contents (acceptable for a "gluten-free" diet) from those with a slightly higher but unacceptable gluten content. in a trial of the prototype kit by 47 coeliac disease patients of diverse ages and educational backgrounds, 93% of tests correctly identified foods as acceptable or unacceptable.
symptomatic and essential rhythmic palatal myoclonus. rhythmic palatal myoclonus (rpm) is a rare movement disorder consisting of continuous synchronous jerks of the soft palate, muscles innervated by other cranial nerves and, rarely, trunk and limb muscles. it usually develops secondary to brainstem or cerebellar disease (symptomatic rpm). some patients, however, fail to show evidence of a structural lesion (essential rpm). a total of 287 cases with rpm from the literature including 210 cases with symptomatic and 77 cases with essential rpm have been reviewed and analysed statistically to look for criteria separating the two conditions. patients with essential rpm usually have objective earclicks as their typical complaint which is rare in the symptomatic form. eye and extremity muscles are never involved. the jerk frequency is lower in essential than in symptomatic rpm. patients with essential rpm are younger and have a balanced sex distribution as compared with a male preponderance in the symptomatic form. the rhythmicity of rpm seems to be more profoundly influenced by sleep, coma and general anaesthesia in essential than in symptomatic rpm. we conclude from these results that essential rpm should be separated as a distinct clinical entity. symptomatic rpm is a rhythmic movement disorder whose pathogenesis is quite well established. the cells of the hypertrophied inferior olives are believed to represent the oscillator. among other possibilities, essential rpm may represent its functional analogue, based on transmitter changes only. such a relationship could be of theoretical interest for the understanding of rhythmic hyperkinesias in general.
results of n-methyl-d-aspartate antagonists in perinatal cerebral asphyxia therapy. perinatal cerebral asphyxia, which results in significant neurologic and cognitive disabilities in infants and children, remains a major health problem. potential neurologic sequelae include cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and epilepsy. over the next few years, neuroprotective agents that prevent asphyxial neuronal injury and death are likely to be developed. these agents may also be effective in prophylaxis and treatment of chronic neurologic disorders, including epilepsy and neurodegenerative disorders, such as huntington disease.
tired, weak, or in need of rest: fatigue among general practice attenders objectives--to determine the prevalence and associations of symptoms of fatigue. design--questionnaire survey. setting--london general practice. participants--611 general practice attenders. main outcome measures--scores on a fatigue questionnaire and reasons given for fatigue. results--10.2% of men (17/167) and 10.6% of women (47/444) had substantial fatigue for one month or more. age, occupation, and marital status exerted minor effects. subjects attributed fatigue equally to physical and non-physical causes. physical ill health, including viral infection, was associated with more severe fatigue. women rather than men blamed family responsibilities for their fatigue. the profile of persistent fatigue did not differ from that of short duration. only one person met criteria for the chronic fatigue syndrome. conclusions--fatigue is a common complaint among general practice attenders and can be severe. patients may attribute this to physical, psychological, and social stress.
total hip arthroplasty after fracture of the acetabulum. long-term results. we made a retrospective study of 55 primary total hip arthroplasties in 53 patients with a history of previous acetabular fracture. the mean follow-up was 7.5 years and the average age at fracture was 48.7 years. the incidence of radiographic femoral loosening (29.4%), symptomatic loosening (15.7%), and femoral revision (7.8%) were similar to those previously reported at 10 years for routine arthroplasties by stauffer (1982). on the acetabular side, the incidence of radiographic loosening (52.9%), symptomatic loosening (27.5%), and revision (13.7%) were four to five times higher. we conclude that a history of prior acetabular fracture has a significant adverse impact on the long-term outcome of any subsequent total hip arthroplasty.
obstructive sleep apnea presenting with nocturnal angina, heart failure, and near-miss sudden death. an obese woman with a one-year history of episodic nocturnal chest pain was admitted because of shock and pulmonary edema. a clinical diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock was made. she was ventilated and successfully resuscitated. subsequent investigations showed no evidence of cardiac dysfunction or coronary disease, but sleep study confirmed the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas). we suggest that the nocturnal angina and heart failure in this patient might have resulted from extreme hypoxemia produced by osas. this case raised the possibility that the high cardiovascular mortality rate reported in osas might not necessarily relate to underlying coronary artery disease. further investigations are required to delineate the true incidence of coronary disease in patients with osas.
is fibrillation chaos? ventricular fibrillation is examined to determine whether it is an instance of deterministic chaos. surface ecgs from dogs in fibrillation were used to generate a state space representation of fibrillation. our analysis failed to identify a low-dimensional attractor that could be associated with fibrillation. the results suggest that fibrillation is similar to a nonchaotic random signal. we note, however, that such random-looking but nonchaotic behavior can also be generated by a nonlinear deterministic system.
effect of direct intracoronary administration of methylergonovine in patients with and without variant angina. the effects of intracoronary administration of methylergonovine were studied in 21 patients with variant angina and 22 patients with atypical chest pain and in others without angina pectoris (control group). methylergonovine was administered continuously at a rate of 10 micrograms/min up to 50 micrograms. in all patients with variant angina, coronary spasm was provoked at a mean dose of 28 +/- 13 micrograms (mean +/- sd). in the control group neither ischemic st change nor localized spasm occurred. the basal tone of the right coronary artery was significantly lower than that of the left coronary artery. the percentage of vasoconstriction of the right coronary artery was significantly higher than that of the left coronary artery. these results suggest that spasm provocation tests, which use an intracoronary injection of a relatively low dose of methylergonovine, have a high sensitivity in variant angina and the vasoreactivity of the right coronary artery may be greater than that of the other coronary arteries.
primary and metastatic pulmonary meningioma. patient 1 was a 53-year-old man who had a very rare primary pulmonary meningioma that developed in the left lingular segment. when this report was written, 7 years had passed since he underwent operation, and no recurrence of the meningioma had been detected. in patient 2, a 61-year-old woman, multiple pulmonary metastases were confirmed 19 years after she had undergone operation for multiple cerebellar meningiomas, and the metastases were resected. after 2 years, multiple intraperitoneal metastases were found, and thus aggressive surgery was performed. currently, 22 years after the operation for the primary cerebellar meningioma, the patient is alive without any subjective symptoms, although intraperitoneal metastases have recurred. to date, only four cases (all in women) of primary pulmonary meningioma have been reported. case 1 reported in this article is thus the first case in a male patient to be reported, and, in addition, this patient also has the first reported case to have been evaluated for more than 5 years. in case 2, however, each of the excised extracranial tumor lesions was histologically homogeneous and showed a hemangiopericytomatous pattern. the histologic picture of those tumor lesions was exactly the same as the picture of a small portion of the cerebellar meningiomas excised 19 years earlier. thus, all those extracranial tumor lesions were diagnosed to be metastatic meningiomas. however, it is difficult to explain why there had been no symptoms for as long as 19 years until the pulmonary metastases were discovered.
four and a half year follow up of women with dyskaryotic cervical smears. objective--to determine the proportion of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears who (a) progress to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii or worse or (b) regress. design--four and a half year cytological follow up study of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears. setting--666 women (mean age 28 (sd 8) years; range 14-74) found to have borderline, mild, or moderate dyskaryosis on routine screening. results--45 women (6.8%) had a cone biopsy recommended on the basis of an abnormal follow up smear (severe dyskaryosis suggestive of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii or invasive cancer), and in one patient cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii was reported in a biopsy specimen after dilatation and curettage. life table analysis gave a 14% probability of a patient being recommended for a biopsy after four and a half years of follow up (95% confidence interval 12% to 15%). there was a significant excess incidence of invasive cancer of the cervix in the series compared with the general population (five cases observed compared with less than 0.1 expected). 157 patients (24%) showed reversion to a normal cell pattern sustained in several smears over more than 18 months but a single negative smear was an unreliable indicator of apparent regression. having two successive smears showing mild dyskaryosis or a smear at any time showing moderate dyskaryosis was a significant predictor of a subsequent severely dyskaryotic smear. conclusions--women found to have mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears should be kept under regular surveillance. the optimum management of these patients--by cytology or colposcopy--needs to be determined by randomised controlled trials.
unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid. an unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported. no such case has been reported in the literature. a possible explanation is offered.
wide cavum septum pellucidum: a marker of disturbed brain development. a wide cavum septum pellucidum defined as a separation of greater than 1 cm of the leaves occurs uncommonly. nine children with wide cavum septum pellucidum were studied; 8 were abnormal. observed abnormalities included cognitive impairment (8), seizures (4), hypoplasia of the corpus callosum (4), optic nerve hypoplasia (2), and growth failure (4). the incidence of intellectual dysfunction, the association with midline anomalies of the brain, and growth failure all suggest that wide cavum septum pellucidum may represent part of a spectrum of midline brain anomalies.
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease. we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen. in addition to aseptic meningitis, both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs, ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other. the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed.
scalp necrosis in a neonate treated with cultured autologous keratinocytes. a neonate compromised by a stressful labor, low birth weight, anemia, seizures, and enterocolitis developed necrosis of a caput succedaneum of the calvaria. coverage with cultured autologous keratinocytes was successful and represents a treatment modality with minimal morbidity compared with conventional split-thickness skin grafts.
activation and in vitro expansion of tumor-reactive t lymphocytes from lymph nodes draining human primary breast cancers. the feasibility of in vitro activation of lymphocytes from the draining lymph nodes (dln) of breast cancer patients was examined. lymphocytes isolated from 48 dln from 12 patients were examined for their proliferative responses to ril-2, autologous tumor cells, or ril-2 plus tumor cells. three general patterns of cellular responses were observed. cells from some dln (17%) were unresponsive to any stimuli. lymphocytes from 52% of the dln responded moderately to ril-2 alone. the combination of ril-2 and tumor antigen had a synergistic effect on the proliferation of cells from 31% of the dln assayed. phorbol dibutyrate and ionomycin plus ril-2 stimulated expansion of dln lymphocytes by up to 850-fold after 35 days. these expanded cell populations, as well as those stimulated with antigen plus ril-2, were predominantly cd3+ and cd16- cells, varying in proportions of cd4+ and cd8+ subsets. both populations were cytotoxic against autologous tumor, mcf-7, and k562 target cells.
surgical resection of intrinsic brain stem lesions: an overview. a major limitation to the effective treatment of intrinsic mass lesions of the brain stem has been the inability to clearly define the pathological anatomy radiographically. the improved soft tissue resolution offered by magnetic resonance imaging, as compared with axial computed tomography, now makes it possible not only to accurately distinguish anatomical relationships, but also to predict the pathological nature of the lesion. accordingly, we have been encouraged to pursue a more aggressive approach to intrinsic lesions of the brain stem that appear well circumscribed on magnetic resonance imaging scan. the object of this paper is to report the successful treatment of four intrinsic lesions of the brain stem and to present an overview of the relevant published experience.
effect of a leukocyte-platelet removal filter on ischemia induced reperfusion injury. the effect of leukocyte and platelet depletion on reperfusion injury using a leukocyte-platelet removal filter (lrf) in intracoronary thrombolysis is reported. to better define the usefulness of lrf in evaluating the effectiveness of intracoronary thrombolysis with this device, several cardiovascular variables were examined in rabbits during ischemia followed by reperfusion. the rabbits underwent cytoapheresis with lrf (n = 5) and were compared with controls without lrf (n = 5). lrf was composed of a nonwoven polyester fabric (1.8 microns, 4.6 gm). removal of leukocytes and platelets by lrf was 98% for both. a period of 30 min equilibration was allowed before any experimental intervention, at which time the diagonal artery was occluded for 20 min and then reperfused. all arrhythmias were defined and quantified in accordance with the lambeth convention. regional wall thickening was examined by a pulsed doppler dimension system. no significant differences were observed in hemodynamic variables between the two groups; however, rabbits treated with a lrf demonstrated greater regional wall thickening (lrf group: 17 +/- 0.9%, control group: 11 +/- 0.3%, p less than 0.01), as well as significant improvement in the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias (lrf group: 12.5%, control group: 47.2%, p less than 0.01). the data suggest that lrf may help prevent arrhythmias, and preserve left ventricular contraction, during and after intracoronary thrombolysis.
occipital condyle fracture presenting as retropharyngeal hematoma. reported is the case of a 30-year-old male motorcycle accident victim who was found on plain cervical-spine radiography to have prevertebral soft-tissue swelling. although subsequent computed tomography demonstrated no cervical-spine fracture, it did reveal a fracture of one occipital condyle. the mechanism, diagnosis, and treatment of occipital condyle fractures are reviewed, as is the ligamentous and fascial anatomy of the cervicocranium. dissection of fracture hematoma inferiorly along vertically oriented tissue planes is hypothesized as the pathogenesis of our patient's retropharyngeal hematoma. in addition to being a sign of potential cervical-spine injury, post-traumatic prevertebral soft-tissue swelling may also indicate occipital condyle fracture. to avoid overlooking such fractures, computed tomography undertaken to investigate upper cervical-spine prevertebral soft-tissue swelling should always include slices up to the level of the basal skull so as to visualize the condyles.
endotoxin requirements for alveolar macrophage stimulation. acute pulmonary failure or ards in severely injured patients continues to be a significant problem. the most important clinical risk factor identified is sepsis syndrome. sepsis syndrome is the clinical correlate of a malignant systemic inflammatory process and is directed in large part by the tissue-fixed macrophage (m phi), such as the alveolar m phi. the m phi is capable of producing most of the central inflammatory mediators responsible for the pathophysiology seen during sepsis and organ injury. two major mediators are procoagulant activity (pca), leading to diffuse microvascular thrombosis, and tumor necrosis factor (tnf), causing much of the physiologic derangement of sepsis. endotoxins (lps) derived from gram-negative bacterial cell walls are the primary inflammatory stimulus for the tissue-fixed m phi production of inflammatory mediators. it is not completely known how lps interacts with its various cellular targets, but it is hoped that knowledge of the molecular interactions involved in stimulation of the m phi by endotoxin will lead to therapies to modulate the response and prevent deleterious processes such as ards. in the present studies, lps from e. coli 0111:b4 was shown in a dose response to stimulate large levels of both pca and tnf in alveolar m phi. lps from bacteroides fragilis and lipid x (the monosaccharide precursor of endotoxin) were unable to cause stimulation of the m phi in vitro. however, both moieties, b. fragilis lps and lipid x, were able to effectively and specifically compete with e. coli lps and block m phi stimulation.
antagonism of serotonin s3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens the control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem. in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we evaluated the effect of serotonin s3 receptor blockade with ondansetron (gr 38032f) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy. cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous (iv) doses of 0.15 mg/kg. most patients had breast cancer. cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin (65% of patients) or with fluorouracil (85% of patients: 50% with adriamycin [doxorubicin; adria laboratories, columbus, oh] and 35% with methotrexate). all placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting, whereas 70% of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit (p = .008). median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo (p less than .001). seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite, compared with 10% of placebo patients. adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient. diarrhea and headache were the most common events, both occurring more frequently in the placebo group. there were no extrapyramidal reactions, and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient. these results suggest that serotonin s3 receptor antagonists represent a novel, effective, and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies. in addition, our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin, acting on s3 receptors, mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy.
massive histamine release in a patient with systemic mastocytosis. we have measured plasma histamine concentrations, systemic vascular resistance, cardiac output and arterial pressure during laparotomy in a patient with systemic mastocytosis. the patient developed vasodilation and hypotension during surgery, associated with a massive increase in plasma histamine concentration.
flexible bronchoscopy via the laryngeal mask: a new technique. malignant tracheal tumours often cause airway obstruction and this may be aggravated by vocal cord paralysis due to invasion of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. conventional endoscopic techniques performed under general anaesthesia do not give a simultaneous view of vocal cord function and the distal airways. the technique of bronchoscopy via the laryngeal mask allowed full assessment of the cause of stridor in a patient with a malignant tracheal tumour that was causing airways obstruction and vocal cord paralysis.
cv 205-502--effectiveness, tolerability, and safety over 24-month study. twenty hyperprolactinemic women (median prolactin [prl] 2,989 mu/l, range 1,149 to 11,910 mu/l), previously unsuccessfully treated with bromocriptine, were treated in a prospective study, for 3 to 24 months with the new, nonergot, long-acting, dopamine agonist, cv 205-502. treatment resulted in normalization of prl in 14 patients, in one daily dose of 0.075 to 0.150 mg of the drug. three patients were treated in doses above 0.150 mg up to 0.300 mg, but prl was not normalized during the study. menstrual function was restored in 15 of 18 amenorrheic patients. galactorrhea, present in 7 patients, disappeared in 5. four patients became pregnant and gave birth to healthy children. in conclusion, we found cv 205-502 effective in one daily dose, with good tolerability; it is safe and provides a valuable alternative to the dopamine agonist drugs in use today.
does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms, stroke, or death? the identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms, stroke, and death. to investigate these concerns, we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies, each documented as technically satisfactory. post-operative duplex doppler examination data at 3 days, 1, 3, 6, 12 months, and annually thereafter in 484 arteries (85.5%) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis: normal (n = 306); 1% to 19% (n = 89); 20% to 50% (n = 40); more than 50% (n = 49, including 8 occluded). the incidence of more than 50% restenosis was 14.5% in female and 7.7% in male patients (p = 0.003). life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis (p = 0.05). stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis, although this difference did not reach statistical significance. when survival and stroke were both endpoints, the likelihood of patients with more than 50% restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20% stenotic group (p = 0.03). thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms, stroke, or early death.
effects of milk, prostaglandin, and antacid on experimentally induced duodenitis in the rat. use of myeloperoxidase as an index of inflammation. ulcerogenesis of the duodenal mucosa frequently involves an inflammatory reaction with infiltration of leukocytes. measurement of neutrophil myeloperoxidase activity might thus be a sensitive indicator of damage, before visible lesions occur. to test this possibility, a rat model for duodenal injury was used where fasted animals were treated with indomethacin and histamine-dihcl. twenty-four hours after indomethacin treatment, duodenal tissues were collected for histochemical staining and biochemical assay for myeloperoxidase activity. indomethacin- and histamine-challenged rats had significantly elevated myeloperoxidase activity compared to unchallenged controls (p less than 0.05) for both histochemistry and biochemistry. there was also a significant correlation between these two parameters (r = 0.68, p less than 0.001). the duodenal injury model then was used to test the effectiveness of known gastric protective agents. results indicated that milk and buttermilk did not aggravate or protect against duodenal injury, while antacid and prostaglandin did significantly protect against inflammation (p less than 0.02). we concluded that measurement of myeloperoxidase activity is a sensitive and potentially useful estimate of duodenal injury that can be valuable in assessing ulcerogenesis and healing.
dreams and epilepsy. the relationship between dreams and epilepsy is illustrated by two patients whose awake epileptic seizures and recurrent dreams during night sleep had similar content. in both of our cases the eeg showed right anterior temporal spike discharge, suggesting a role for the temporal lobe in the association between dreams and seizures.
modulatory action of adenosine on gastric function and ethanol-induced mucosal damage in rats. this study examines the gastric effects of adenosine and its antagonist, theophylline, on secretory function, mucosal blood flow, and on ethanol-induced glandular mucosal damage in rats that were fasted for 24 hr before experimentation. the animals were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone (50 mg/kg intraperitoneal) and their tracheae cannulated. an ex vivo stomach chamber then was prepared. the luminal bathing solution was collected every 15 min and the concentrations of h+ and na+ were determined by a ph autotitrator and an ionmeter, respectively. the glandular mucosal blood flow was measured by a laser doppler flowmeter and the severity of lesions was determined by measuring the hemorrhagic areas. adenosine administration (2.5 or 7.5 mg/kg, subcutaneous) markedly lowered the h+ and na+ output but increased the secretory volume and mucosal blood flow in a dose-dependent manner. the same doses of the nucleoside also prevented ethanol-induced mucosal damage. these effects were prevented by pretreatment with theophylline (30 or 60 mg/kg, subcutaneous). ethanol given alone significantly depressed the h+ and na+ secretion. both effects were not modified by adenosine treatment. however, the depressive action of ethanol on mucosal blood flow was prevented by adenosine. these findings indicate that adenosine modulates the physiological function of the stomach. it also directly activates the defensive mechanism of the stomach, which is partially mediated by the improvement of the gastric mucosal blood flow and an increase in the nonacid component of gastric secretion.
laparoscopic excision of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant. one hundred fifty-six members and candidate members of the society of gynecologic oncologists responded to a survey concerning the "laparoscopic management of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant." twenty-nine responders (19%) reported a total of 42 cases of ovarian malignancy. the laparoscopic procedure was aborted or the cyst was aspirated in 38% of the cases, and partial or complete excisions were attempted in 33 and 29%, respectively. the characteristics of the masses were as follows: less than 8 cm 67%, cystic 62%, unilocular 48%, and unilateral 81%. all four "benign" characteristics were present in 31% of the cases found to be malignant, and three of four characteristics were present in 24%. laparotomy was performed at the time of laparoscopy in 17% of cases, after laparoscopy in 71% with an average interval of 4.8 weeks, and not at all in 12%. fifty-seven percent of the cases were invasive epithelial malignancies, whereas 29% were tumors of low malignant potential. at least 50% of the patients had stages ii-iv. we conclude that attempted laparoscopic excisions of adnexal masses that are subsequently found to be malignant are not uncommon, and that the presence of so-called "benign" characteristics does not preclude malignancy. attempts at partial or complete excision are common, as are delays in subsequent definitive surgery. the stage of disease is often advanced, and all histologic types of malignancy are encountered. we advocate careful evaluation of this practice, with development of strict guidelines to ensure optimal patient care.
oncogene rearrangements in chronic b-cell leukemia. forty-four b-chronic lymphocytic leukemias (cll) were studied by southern blot analysis using probes for the ig genes and bcl-1, bcl-2 (major, minor and 5' breakpoint region), bcl-3, c-myc, and retinoblastoma (rb) loci. eight cases had three or more rearranged jh bands, indicating oligoclonality, clonal evolution, or chromosomal translocation. one case had a rearrangement of the bcl-1 locus and three of the bcl-2 locus. in the first case, comigration of the rearranged bcl-1 and jh sequences indicated a t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation, which, in contrast to previously described cases, seems to be completely reciprocal. one case with a bcl-2 rearrangement showed comigration of the bcl-2 major breakpoint region and a rearranged jh band. this indicates a t(14;18) (q32;q21). the two other cases showed rearrangements of the bcl-2 5' breakpoint region without apparent comigration. no rearrangements were detected of c-myc and bcl-3, located at chromosome 19, nor was a deletion of rb found. all but three cases had cd5 expression. the exceptions included the t(11;14) and the t(14;18) cases. our results confirm recent data on rearrangements at the 5' site of bcl-2 in cll. additionally, they corroborate the presumption that cd5-negative chronic b-cell leukemias should be considered apart from classical cll.
variability in dna measurements in multiple tumor samples of human colonic carcinoma. the dna ploidy and cell-cycle distribution of three separate fresh tissue samples of 60 colorectal adenocarcinomas were analyzed by flow cytometry. dna ploidy was concordant among the three samples in 38 cases (63.3%). in the remaining 22 cases (36.6%), the dna histograms of two of the three multiple samples were similar; however, the ploidy of the third sample was discordant. no relationship was observed between dukes' stage and histologic grade with concordance or discordance among samples. thus, in about one third of the colonic carcinomas, a single sample showing either a diploid or diploid-cycling dna histogram would not detect aneuploid dna patterns. comparison of scrapes and fine-needle aspirates of tumors as alternative sampling methods of tumors for dna ploidy analysis indicated a strong association with the tumor ploidy (84% and 96%, respectively) only when the ploidy of the multiple samples was concordant. in about 25% of the cases, tumor scrapes and fine-needle aspirates did not correlate with the "most abnormal" ploidy observed in one of the three tissue samples. the data suggest that single or even double tissue samples may not show aneuploid dna patterns in a substantial proportion of colorectal cancers.
early detection of gastric cancer objective--to see whether investigation of dyspeptic patients aged over 40 after their first consultation with the general practitioner would increase the proportions with early and operable gastric cancers. design--prospective study of gastric cancer in dyspeptic patients aged over 40 from a defined population. setting--10 general practices (six in central birmingham, four in sandwell); the queen elizabeth hospital, birmingham; and sandwell district general hospital. patients--2659 patients aged 40 or over referred with dyspepsia. main outcome measure--increase in early and operable gastric cancers detected in middle aged patients with dyspepsia. results--disease was identified in 1992 patients (75%). fifty seven were found to have gastric cancer, 36 being treated by potentially curative resection, including 15 with early cancer. conclusions--the investigation of dyspeptic patients over 40 at first attendance can increase the proportion of early gastric cancers detected to 26% and the proportion of operable cases to 63%. such a policy has the potential to reduce mortality from gastric cancer in the population.
fresnel prisms improve visual perception in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect. we randomly assigned 39 patients with stroke and homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect to treatment with 15-diopter plastic press-on fresnel prisms (n = 18) or to serve as controls (n = 21). baseline evaluations of visual perception and activities-of-daily-living (adl) function were similar for both groups. after 4 weeks, the prism-treated group performed significantly better than controls on the following: (1) motor free visual perception test; (2) line bisection task; (3) line cancellation task; (4) harrington flocks visual field screener; and (5) tangent screen examination. there was no significant difference in barthel adl assessment at 4 weeks. thus, treatment with 15-diopter fresnel prisms improves visual perception test scores but not adl function in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect.
estrogen and coronary heart disease in women. we review herein the evidence that estrogen is protective against the development of cardiovascular disease in women. to our knowledge, no studies in women have looked at endogenous estrogen levels as predictors of cardiovascular disease. studies of surrogate measures of endogenous estrogen such as parity, age at menarche, and age at menopause have provided inconsistent results. current use of oral contraceptives increases risk in older women who smoke cigarettes, but most studies of past use show no increased risk. most, but not all, studies of hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women show around a 50% reduction in risk of a coronary event in women using unopposed oral estrogen. these important observations need to be confirmed in a double-blind, randomized clinical trial, since the protection is biologically plausible and the magnitude of the benefit would be quite large if selection factors can be excluded.
large loop excision of the transformation zone (lletz) compared to carbon dioxide laser in the treatment of cin: a superior mode of treatment. a series of 199 patients with histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade ii or iii were allocated by hospital number to receive out-patient treatment by carbon dioxide laser vaporization or large loop excision of the transformation zone (lletz). all patients received local anaesthesia. the women in the lletz group experienced less post operative haemorrhage, less discomfort, operative time was greatly reduced, and histological material was available for confirmation of the diagnosis. there was no significant difference in recurrence of cin after treatment between the two groups. at 6 month follow-up, recurrence rates of 8.2% (cin ii) and 7.5% (cin iii) were observed in the laser-group and 5% (cin ii) and 5.3% (cin iii) in the lletz group. further advantages of lletz are reduced capital expenditure and no hazard to the eyesight of the surgeon, but laser treatment is preferable in patients with widespread vaginal involvement.
collagenous colitis: report of nine cases and review of the literature. collagenous colitis is characterized clinically by chronic watery diarrhea and pathologically by a distinctive band of collagen deposited below the colonic epithelium and an inflammatory cell infiltrate of the lamina propria. since 1976, more than 100 cases have been described. we report an additional nine cases occurring in five women and four men ranging in age from 18 to 80 years. diarrhea was present before diagnosis for 2 to 4 months in four cases and for 1 to 25 years in another four cases. one patient did not have diarrhea. results of radiologic and stool studies were normal in all cases. all patients had flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. microscopic examination of biopsy material was interpreted as characteristic of collagenous colitis. two cases resolved with psyllium mucilloid therapy alone. of the five patients treated with azulfidine, three had marked improvement, one had partial response, and one had no change.
improved outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with reinforced early treatment and rotational combination chemotherapy. to improve outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (all), a stratified, randomised study of extended intensified chemotherapy was done. 358 evaluable patients received remission reinforcement therapy (teniposide, cytarabine, high-dose methotrexate) added to a four-drug induction regimen. those achieving complete remission were randomised on the basis of risk group assignment to conventional continuation treatment or to four pairs of drugs rotated weekly or every 6 weeks. all patients received intrathecal chemotherapy; higher-risk patients also received 1800 cgy cranial irradiation after 1 year of remission. complete remission was induced in 96% of the patients. at median follow-up of 40 (range 19-73) months, 4-year event-free survival (se) was 73 (4)% overall, 81 (6)% in the lower-risk group (n = 110), and 69 (5)% in the higher-risk group (n = 248). outcome within risk groups was not significantly affected by the speed of rotation of drug pairs during continuation treatment. various high-risk subgroups had apparently improved responses to this treatment. this intensified chemotherapy may cure 69-77% of children with all.
rectal bleeding. patient delay in presentation. patient delay in presentation of rectal bleeding has been identified as a factor in delayed diagnosis among patients with colorectal cancer. the aim of this study was to identify demographic or psychological factors, or beliefs or behaviors related to delay in presentation of rectal bleeding. in 93 patients presenting with this symptom to their general practitioner, delay ranged from 0 to 249 days with a median of 7 days; 27 (29 percent) delayed more than 14 days. delay was unrelated to age, sex, ethnic origin, competence in english, length of schooling, social status, availability of social support, measured psychologic traits, and to the belief that the cause might be cancer. the proportions delaying more than 14 days were statistically significantly elevated among those who were not worried by the bleeding (47 percent delayed); those who did not regularly look at their feces or the toilet paper after use (37 percent); and those who took some other action before presenting to their general practitioner (43 percent).
calcium antagonists in the management of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: a review. cerebral arterial vasospasm and infarction is the leading cause of death and disability among patients who reach a major medical center after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). recent evidence suggests that two calcium antagonists, nimodipine or nicardipine, may be useful in preventing this important complication of sah. this paper reviews the current status of these two calcium antagonists in the management of sah.
coronary artery dilatation requiring high inflation pressure. a patient with rigid coronary lesions refractory to balloon dilatation is described. a cordis orion fixed wire balloon able to withstand 20 bar was required for successful dilatation.
antitumor activity of liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin in advanced breast cancer: phase ii study. previous studies in animals have demonstrated liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin (led) has substantially less cardiac toxicity than free doxorubicin but retains antitumor activity. in a phase i clinical study of led, the maximum tolerated dose was 90 mg/m2 and dose-limiting toxicity was considered to have been reached when granulocytopenia was produced. we used led to treat 20 patients with advanced, measurable breast cancer. led was given at doses of 60-75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. regression of disease was objectively measured in nine patients; in five of these patients, complete regression of the index lesion occurred. the mean duration of the responses was 7 months. hematologic toxicity consisted of grade 1-2 leukopenia in some patients. gastrointestinal toxicity and mucositis were generally mild and tolerable. alopecia occurred in all patients and usually was complete. twelve patients received cumulative doses of led of greater than 400 mg/m2 and were evaluated with radionuclide ventriculograms. in eight patients, the cumulative dose was greater than 500 mg/m2, and five had endomyocardial biopsies. four of these biopsy results were billingham grade 0, while one (cumulative led dose, 750 mg/m2) showed grade 1 changes with mild myofibrillar loss and dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum involving less than 5% of cardiac myocytes. two patients had decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction. one of these patients had received a total dose of led of 630 mg/m2 and had a decline of 13% in left ventricular ejection fraction, but had no clinical evidence of congestive heart failure and had a billingham grade 0 endomyocardial biopsy.
role of new anticoagulants as adjunctive therapy during thrombolysis. procoagulant activity may persist during coronary thrombolysis and result in either delay in the time to recanalization or recurrent thrombosis. although heparin and aspirin form the mainstay of current therapy, recurrent thrombosis occurs despite adjunctive heparin therapy during thrombolysis. newer agents that inhibit thrombin by antithrombin iii-independent mechanisms, or that inhibit earlier steps in the coagulation cascade, have been shown to be effective in the experimental preparation of coronary thrombolysis. because heparin-antithrombin iii is a relatively inefficient inhibitor of thrombin bound to fibrin, agents such as hirudin or small peptide inhibitors of the thrombin-active site appear to be more effective inhibitors of clot-associated thrombin activity. inhibition of early steps in the coagulation cascade with the inhibitor of tissue factor-factor viia complex, or with activated protein c, also appears to be an effective anticoagulant strategy. in experimental preparations all of these agents have shown superiority in preventing recurrent thrombosis compared with heparin, and in some cases they appear to accelerate the rate of clot lysis.
absorption of carbon 13-labeled rice in milk by infants during acute gastroenteritis. to determine whether rice cereal could be used to complement a cow milk-based diet in the nutritional management of infants with acute diarrhea, we assessed its digestion and absorption in eight affected male infants, 69 to 131 days of age. they received cow milk formula with 5.4% lactose (diluted 1:1 with water and precooked rice cereal) 5 to 22 hours after admission and rehydration. the first feeding consisted of milk diluted with carbon 13-enriched rice cereal. a 48-hour fecal collection and balance study was performed. rice cereal was reasonably well absorbed (84.0% to 95.8%) by seven of the eight infants. the study was repeated in seven of the infants after they had recovered. our results indicated that rice cereal is well absorbed by young infants with acute diarrhea and that it is an adequate nutrient supplement for this patient population.
effect of hemodialysis on protein c, protein s, and antithrombin iii levels. we studied the effect of hemodialysis on natural coagulation inhibitors including protein c (pc), protein s (ps), and antithrombin iii (at iii), as well as the correlations between the antigen level (immunological activity) and functional activity of individual coagulation inhibitor. plasma at iii, ps, and pc were measured in 20 uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis immediately before, during, and after dialysis treatment. these values were compared with those obtained from 20 matched healthy controls. plasma pc and total ps antigen levels were measured by enzyme immunoassay. the plasma at iii antigen level was determined by laurell rocket immunoelectrophoresis. functional activities of pc and at iii were determined by the amidolytic method. free ps antigen level was quantitated by measuring the free ps-related antigen after the sample was treated with polyethylene glycol to remove the c4b-binding protein. uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis had a higher total ps antigen level, but a lower free ps antigen level compared with the controls. both the antigen level and functional activity of at iii in uremic patients were significantly lower than those of controls. their predialysis plasma pc antigen level and functional activity were not different from those of normal controls. a significant correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of pc, ps, and at iii was demonstrated in healthy controls, but not in hemodialysis patients. no significant change in the level of at iii or ps was observed with hemodialysis, but a progressive increase of functional activity of pc was documented with hemodialysis. furthermore, the coefficient of correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of pc improved significantly with dialysis treatment.
heterotopic supradiaphragmatic liver formation in association with congenital cardiac anomalies. heterotopic supradiaphragmatic liver formation is extremely rare. we studied a case of heterotopic liver in a 26-week fetus with severe cardiac and conotruncal anomalies. the cardiac anomalies are strikingly similar to those of a previously described patient with heterotopic supradiaphragmatic liver. the cardiac anomalies and heterotopic supradiaphragmatic liver formation may be mechanistically related.
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. stagnara wake-up tests, blood flow measures, somatosensory evoked potentials (seps), and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at l3-l4. overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of nmeps. results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia. blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally. finally, nmeps were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than seps. nmeps should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than seps. because nmeps and seps provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts, the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery.
association of bcl-1 rearrangements with lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation. previous studies using classical cytogenetics have demonstrated the presence of the t(11;14) (q13;q32) chromosomal translocation in some cases of lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation (idl), a distinct type of low grade b-cell lymphoma. this finding suggested that the bcl-1 region (located at band q13 of chromosome 11) might be involved in this neoplasm. using a genomic probe from the major breakpoint area of the bcl-1 locus, we identified rearrangements of the bcl-1 region in 10 of 19 cases, 2 of which comigrated with a rearranged allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene joining region. in contrast, bcl-1 rearrangements were not found in other types of low grade b-cell lymphoma, specifically in 36 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (cll/sll) and 27 cases of follicular lymphoma (fl). to further assess the molecular pathology of idl, we analyzed these cases for rearrangements of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene, which is associated primarily with follicular lymphomas. none of the 19 cases of idl had rearrangements. furthermore, none of the 36 cases of cll/sll showed bcl-2 rearrangements, whereas, as expected, 21 of 27 cases of fl had rearrangements of the bcl-2 locus. our findings demonstrate an association between a rearranged bcl-1 region with approximately 50% of idls and suggest that abnormalities of this locus may be important in the pathogenesis of idl.
optic nerve gliomas and meningiomas. optic nerve gliomas are benign astrocytic neoplasms that primarily affect children. the ultimate prognosis for vision is poor. for lesions confined to the optic nerves, long-term survival is excellent, but with involvement of the chiasm and especially of the hypothalamus or third ventricle, prognosis falls significantly. for this group, no form of therapy has proven to be of any benefit. optic sheath meningiomas are neoplasms arising from arachnoid cap cells. they primarily affect middle-aged adults. like gliomas, the prognosis for vision is poor, but unlike gliomas, prognosis for life is excellent.
evaluation of treatment protocols on minimal to moderate spasticity in multiple sclerosis. thirty men and women diagnosed with definite multiple sclerosis (ms) were treated for ten weeks in a blinded, cross-over study. patients with minimal to moderate spasticity were randomized to one of three sequences to evaluate the effects on ms-related spasticity of baclofen alone, stretching regimen with placebo, placebo alone, and stretching regimen with baclofen. the cybex ii isokinetic unit, timed gait, ashworth scale, and subject's assessment of function were objective and subjective measures used to evaluate changes in hypertonicity. there was significant correlation between the cybex and ashworth as methods of measuring spasticity. overall, treatment with baclofen alone significantly improved moderate quadriceps spasticity as measured by cybex flexion scores. a trend, indicative of enhancing the beneficial effects of baclofen, was noted when stretching exercises were added to the treatment.
technetium-99m (v) dimercaptosuccinic acid: a clinical and scintigraphic study in an animal tumour model. technetium-99m (99mtc) (v) dimercaptosuccinic acid (dmsa) is a new tumour-imaging agent which has been used to image head and neck squamous carcinoma. this study used an established rabbit tumour model to compare palpation versus planar scintigraphy in the detection of superficially transplanted cancers. palpation detected 83% of tumours measuring less than 2 cm compared with 58% for scintigraphy. overall, the sensitivity for palpation was 88% (77% specificity) compared with 50% (63% specificity) for scintigraphy.
intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect: evaluation with doppler color flow mapping in children with a ventricular septal defect, transseptal blood flow has been demonstrated angiographically to be bidirectional in all but the smallest defects. to investigate this phenomenon noninvasively, two-dimensional doppler color flow echocardiography was used in 77 patients (aged 1 day to 15.5 years, mean 24 months). during isovolumetric contraction, flow was seen from the left to the right ventricle in 82 (98%) of 84 studies. during isovolumetric relaxation, right to left flow was noted in 72 (96%) of 75 studies. during early diastole in patients with an isolated defect, flow was initially from the right to the left ventricle and subsequently reversed to become left to right in 29 (91%) of 32 studies. in patients with concomitant right ventricular volume overload, flow across the ventricular defect was from the right to the left ventricle throughout diastole in 30 (86%) of 35 studies. in each of four patients with d-transposition of the great vessels and each of two patients with 1-transposition of the great vessels, blood flow was from the morphologic left ventricle to the morphologic right ventricle during isovolumetric contraction and from the morphologic right ventricle to the morphologic left ventricle during isovolumetric relaxation. these results demonstrate 1) the complex nature of intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect as previously shown by angiography; 2) an intrinsic functional difference in the contractile and relaxation properties of the morphologic left and right ventricles; and 3) differences in diastolic blood flow patterns between children with an isolated defect and those with a ventricular septal defect and right ventricular volume overload (p = 0.0001).
technique of photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms. phase i study. patients with disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms were given intra-abdominal photodynamic therapy. patients received dihematoporphyrin ethers intravenously 48 to 72 hours before laparotomy at doses of 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg. at operation, as much tumor as possible was resected. red light (630 nm) was delivered to all peritoneal surfaces from an argon-pumped dye laser at doses ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 j/cm2 in an escalating fashion. viscera and peritoneal surfaces were anatomically isolated and exposed to light for intervals calculated to deliver the prescribed energy. light was delivered to mesentery and bowel by a flat-cut optical fiber, while other areas, including diaphragm, viscera, omental bursa, gutters, and pelvis, were delivered light through a diffusing wand. twenty-three patients (13 with ovarian cancer, eight with sarcoma, and two with pseudomyxoma peritoneii) underwent photodynamic therapy. five of eight patients cleared positive peritoneal cytologies after treatment. six patients remained clinically free of disease for up to 18 months, and five patients had treatment-related complications. intraperitoneal phototherapy is technically feasible and deserving of clinical evaluation.
the natural history of intimal flaps in a canine model. the natural history of arterial intimal flaps has not been well defined. this study characterizes the natural history of unrepaired intimal flaps. thirty-nine 1-, 2-, and 3-mm hemispheric, distally based intimal flaps were made in 4- to 5-mm diameter canine femoral and carotid arteries. twenty arteries had 2- and 3-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for short-term arterial thrombosis and flap extension. nineteen had 1- and 2-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for thrombosis, long-term development of neointimal hyperplasia, arterial stenosis, and persistence of the flap. while 40% of the arteries with 3-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis in 3 to 5 days, only 3% of the arteries with 1- or 2-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis. most 1- to 2-mm intimal flaps resolved and the subsequent development of neointimal hyperplasia or arterial stenosis was minimal. arteries with hemodynamically significant stenoses from intimal flaps warrant repair, while arteries with smaller intimal flaps may not require repair.
attachment of bacteria to tonsillar epithelium during acute tonsillitis. epithelial cells were scraped from the tonsillar surfaces of 15 patients with current acute tonsillitis (at) and of 15 individually matched healthy persons. the cellular mixture was stained with acridine orange and bacteria seen to be attached to the epithelial cells under the fluorescent microscope were calculated. conventional bacterial culturing was also performed simultaneously. significantly more bacteria were attached to epithelial cells from the at group than from the controls (greater than 10 attached bacteria per cell p = 0.0103, greater than 50 attached bacteria per cell p = 0.0212). in vivo determination of bacteria attached to epithelial cells offers prospects of gaining a better understanding of the aetiopathogenesis of acute tonsillitis.
fine needle aspiration of pancreatic fluid collections. the complications of pancreatitis remain diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. patients with simple pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis, pseudocyst, noninfected fluid collection or abscess may all have similar clinical pictures. during the last decade computerized tomography (ct)-guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections has been increasingly used as a diagnostic tool for pancreatic abscesses. this study reviewed the effectiveness of ct-guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections at our institution in terms of diagnostic accuracy, correlation with eventual outcome, and safety. charts of patients who underwent needle aspiration of de novo peripancreatic fluid collections over the past 2 years were reviewed. thirty-five patients underwent 50 aspirations. eleven patients (31%) had a positive aspirate culture; seven of these had a positive gram's stain. there were no false positive gram's stains but four false negatives. twenty-four (69%) patients had negative aspirate gram's stains and cultures. patients with positive aspirate cultures were treated with antibiotics only (2), ct-guided drain placement (7), or surgical drainage (3). the mortality related to each of these therapeutic modalities was 50 per cent, 0 per cent, and 33 per cent, respectively. of the 24 patients with negative aspirate cultures, five had no further treatment, 12 received antibiotics, and six underwent ct drain placement. all these patients survived. there was one false negative aspirate culture. this patient underwent delayed surgical drainage but expired. there were no major complications from ct-guided aspiration. ct-guided aspiration appears to be a safe and reliable method of diagnosing infection in peripancreatic fluid collections.
effect of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow, blood, and oral granulocyte counts. this study was designed to elicit the effects of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow production, blood carriage, and oral extravasation of granulocytes, and on the phagocytic activity of those harvested from the mouth. fifteen adult patients with various morphologic forms of acute leukemia were followed through one to four courses of chemotherapy. oral saline rinse samples were obtained thrice weekly and prepared for enumeration in a hemocytometer. the oral granulocyte counts were compared with concurrent counts in the bone marrow and peripheral blood. phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was measured by the method of smith and rommel. the 15 patients were followed through 30 courses of chemotherapy and recovery. during each, there was a drug-induced decrease in marrow, blood, and oral granulocytes that was reversed when therapy was discontinued and bone marrow activity was restored. phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was not perceptibly affected by the antileukemic drugs. oral granulocyte counts provide a noninvasive method for monitoring the onset and recovery of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression and granulocytopenia in patients with leukemia.
echocardiographic definition of the left ventricular centroid. ii. determination of the optimal centroid during systole in normal and infarcted hearts. although two-dimensional echocardiography is widely used in both clinical and experimental evaluations of regional cardiac wall motion, there is no established clinical method for quantitative analysis of the wall motion, not even for the normal radial motion observed in short-axis images. measurement of radial wall motion requires determination of a centroid from which the radii emanate. depending on its definition, the centroid is variously affected throughout systole by cardiac translation, regional wall motion and any shift of the subject position or transducer. a floating centroid is defined relative to the ventricular walls frame by frame, whereas a fixed centroid never moves with respect to the transducer. evaluation of the best approach to definition of a centroid was previously presented (part i, this issue). the next question is how to use the centroid. this study examines which of four centroid applications provides the best reference for quantifying regional wall motion during systole. method 1 is a floating centroid (defined separately for every image frame), method 2 uses the end-diastolic centroid as a fixed reference for all image frames, method 3 uses the end-systolic centroid as a fixed reference and method 4 uses the average as a fixed reference. wall motion was measured with respect to each of these centroids by determining radial wall motion from end-diastole to end-systole and correlating radial motion throughout the cardiac cycle with that in normal control hearts.
fusiform dilatations of the carotid artery following radical surgery of childhood craniopharyngiomas. between 1982 and 1990, a series of 31 children with craniopharyngiomas underwent initial surgery at the children's hospital of philadelphia with an attempt at total tumor removal. nine (29%) of them were found to have fusiform dilatation of the supraclinoid carotid artery either at the time of surgery for recurrence (one patient) or on routine surveillance with enhanced computerized tomography 6 to 18 months postoperatively (eight patients). the finding of carotid enlargement was confirmed in seven cases with magnetic resonance angiography and in one case with a formal arteriogram. eight of the nine patients remain alive at a mean of 3.7 years after diagnosis. none have experienced hemorrhage or other symptoms referrable to fusiform dilatation of the carotid artery, which is believed to result from surgical manipulation of the carotid artery.
cryoglobulinemia induced by a murine igg3 rheumatoid factor: skin vasculitis and glomerulonephritis arise from distinct pathogenic mechanisms. mrl-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like syndrome characterized by immunopathological manifestations such as necrotizing vascular lesions of ear tips and severe glomerulonephritis. similar skin vascular and glomerular lesions associated with cryoglobulinemia can be induced in normal mice by injection of a monoclonal antibody (mab)--6-19 (gamma 3 heavy chain and kappa light chain), exhibiting both cryoglobulin and anti-igg2a rheumatoid factor (rf) activities--derived from the mrl-lpr/lpr autoimmune mouse. to determine the role of rf and/or igg3 fc fragment-associated cryoglobulin activities in 6-19 mab-induced tissue lesions, a 6-19-j558l hybrid mab (gamma 3 heavy chain and lambda 1 light chain) was produced by fusion between the 6-19 hybridoma and the j558l myeloma. here we report that the 6-19-j558l hybrid mab, which loses the rf activity but retains the cryoglobulin activity, fails to induce skin vascular lesions. however, it is still able to provoke glomerular lesions identical to those caused by the 6-19 mab. further, we have observed that the depletion of the corresponding autoantigen, igg2a, in mice by treatment with anti-igm antisera from birth also prevents the development of skin but not glomerular lesions. our results indicate that both rf and cryoglobulin activities of the 6-19 mab are required for the development of skin vasculitis, but its cryoglobulin activity alone is sufficient to cause glomerular lesions. in addition, cdna cloning and sequencing of the 6-19 mab has revealed that the 6-19 kappa light chain variable region amino acid sequence is encoded in a germ-line configuration, suggesting that immunoglobulin variable region germ-line genes could contribute to the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies.
symptoms of raynaud's syndrome in patients with fibromyalgia. a study utilizing the nielsen test, digital photoplethysmography, and measurements of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. twenty-nine female patients with fibromyalgia were questioned about symptoms of cold intolerance and raynaud's syndrome; objective documentation of cold-induced vasospasm was obtained by a nielsen test. twelve patients (41%) had abnormal nielsen test results, and 11 patients (38%) had elevated levels of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. there was a positive correlation between the percentage of change in finger systolic pressure on cooling (nielsen test) and the number of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. there was poor correlation between raynaud's syndrome symptoms and an abnormal nielsen test result. digital photoplethysmography showed a normal waveform in 2 of 3 patients. we hypothesize that a subgroup of patients with fibromyalgia syndrome have an up-regulation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors as a cause of their exaggerated reaction to cold.
dynamic ct scanning of pancreatic duct after secretin provocation in pancreas divisum. variations in pancreatic duct diameter at ct scanning and serum pancreatic amylase response following secretin administration were studied in 29 patients with pancreas divisum and unexplained upper abdominal pain. eleven healthy individuals were used as controls. at endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (erp) six patients had signs of marked and six moderate pancreatitis, whereas there were no pancreatitis changes in 17 of the patients. at ct scanning patients with marked pancreatitis (erp) had significantly increased pancreatic duct diameter as compared to patients without signs of pancreatitis. the duct was visualized in 52% of all patients before and 71% after secretin stimulation the corresponding figures for healthy controls, being 18% both before and after secretin. in patients without signs of pancreatitis, it was demonstrated in 5/17 (29%) before and 11/17 (65%) after secretin, whereas it was seen in 10/12 (83%) pancreatitis patients both before and after the hormonal provocation. in five of the nonpancreatitis patients in whom the duct was measurable before and at all study intervals (10, 20, and 50 min) after secretin, there was a significant duct dilation response both at 10 min and when comparing the maximal duct diameter after secretin to the initial values. in contrast secretin did not affect the duct caliber in pancreatitis patients. serum pancreatic amylase increased significantly after secretin administration to healthy controls and nonpancreatitis patients but was uninfluenced in the marked and moderate pancreatitis groups, respectively. however, when all pancreatitis patients were grouped together, the amylase levels were significantly elevated by secretin. in conclusion, secretin provocation caused duct dilation at ct scanning in pancreas divisum patients without signs of pancreatitis at erp.
aneurysmal dilatation in saphenous vein bypass grafts. three patients are reported who developed aneurysmal degeneration of a saphenous vein arterial bypass graft. all three had hypercholesterolemia and two had marked elevation of triglycerides. one bypass was for occlusive disease and two for popliteal aneurysm. there was a long lag, 3 to 7 years between graft implantation and aneurysmal degeneration. the pathology was similar for all three cases with lipid laden macrophages, loss of elastic lamina, and other atherosclerotic changes in the vein wall. while atheromatous changes and aneurysm formation in saphenous vein bypass grafts are rare, this may occur especially in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. careful and prolonged follow-up plus vigorous management of the hyperlipidemic state is mandatory in these patients.
results of transsphenoidal extirpation of craniopharyngiomas and rathke's cysts. fourteen patients undergoing transsphenoidal extirpation of craniopharyngiomas or rathke's cysts underwent endocrinological evaluation before and after surgery. one patient died during the procedure because of uncontrollable arterial bleeding. the other patients were followed for up to 16 years (average, 8.5 years). one patient had recurrence of tumor 12 years after surgery. another patient, the only one operated on because of a recurrent craniopharyngioma after previous radiation therapy, died 2 years after the transsphenoidal operation. no patient recovered pituitary functions that had been lost before surgery. one patient, who had an isolated growth hormone deficiency, and another, who had panhypopituitarism with sustained antidiuretic hormone secretion, had no change postoperatively from their preoperative endocrine status. the other 11 patients lost pituitary function and required pharmacological replacement of one to four pituitary hormones.
differences in qrs configuration during unipolar pacing from adjacent sites: implications for the spatial resolution of pace-mapping. to examine the spatial resolution of unipolar pace-mapping, 12 lead electrocardiograms (ecgs) recorded during pacing from each of the poles of a quadripolar catheter (5 mm interelectrode distance) were examined. unipolar pacing was performed from each of the poles at late diastolic threshold, twice threshold and 10 ma at a cycle length of 500 ms. in 15 patients, pacing was performed at the right ventricular apex and in 14 at various left ventricular sites. pacing from the distal catheter pole at threshold (index ecg) was used to simulate the site of origin of ventricular tachycardia, and all other ecgs were compared with the index ecg. electrocardiograms were evaluated by two independent observers for 1) minor configuration differences (notch, new small component, change in the amplitude of individual components or change in qrs shape); 2) major differences in configuration (new large component, marked change in the amplitude of an existing component or two minor changes); and 3) peak to peak changes in amplitude. minor differences in configuration were seen in a mean 2.4 +/- 1.9, 4.6 +/- 2.4 and 4.4 +/- 2.9 leads during pacing at 5, 10 and 15 mm from the distal electrode (index site). major differences in configuration were seen in a mean of 0.3 +/- 0.5, 2.1 +/- 2.1 and 3.7 +/- 2.3 leads during pacing at 5, 10 and 15 mm from the index site. differences in amplitude were seen in a mean of 3.1 +/- 2.2, 5.6 +/- 2.5 and 6.8 +/- 3.0 leads per ecg during pacing at 5, 10 and 15 mm from the index ecg pacing site, respectively.
simultaneous bilateral hernia repair. a case against conventional wisdom. the timing of bilateral hernia repair remains controversial. because of reported high recurrence rates after simultaneous bilateral repair, staged procedures have been suggested. this study determined recurrence and complication rates of unilateral versus simultaneous bilateral repair. of 659 patients undergoing hernia repair between 1974 and 1980, 333 underwent unilateral repair and 329 had simultaneous bilateral repair. more than 90% of patients were followed until death or a minimum of 60 months (median, 104 months). perioperative complications were associated with 18% of repairs. more morbidity occurred in the bilateral group. however complication rates for specific events were not significantly different, except for urinary retention, which occurred in 20 patients (6.1%) of the unilateral group and 49 (15%) of the bilateral group (p less than 0.001). overall 25 recurrences occurred in the unilateral group and 31 in the bilateral group. recurrence rates at 5 and 9 years were, respectively, 4.8% and 8.8% in the unilateral group and 5.0% and 9.1% in the bilateral group (p = 0.861). these data suggest that simultaneous bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy does not result in increased rates of most postoperative complications or recurrence when compared with unilateral repair.
transcranial doppler determination of cerebral perfusion in patients undergoing cpr: methodology and preliminary findings. study objectives: to correlate cerebral arterial blood velocity measurements as determined by transcranial doppler ultrasound with various resuscitation maneuvers performed in an uncontrolled manner in a series of cardiac arrest patients undergoing standard resuscitation. type of participants: any patient undergoing resuscitation for a nontraumatic cardiac arrest was eligible for the study. interventions: resuscitation was carried out while flow velocities were monitored in various intracranial arteries by transcranial doppler ultrasound. vessel identification was based on the angle and depth of insonation. measurements and main results: the internal carotid artery was located more consistently than either middle cerebral or ophthalmic arteries and provided superior waveforms for analysis. alterations in flow velocity were noted and correlated to various therapeutic interventions. flow velocities were 70% of normal during the early phase of resuscitation but deteriorated over time until there was no evidence of net forward flow. even early in cpr, flow was demonstrated only during systole. conclusion: transcranial doppler ultrasound appears to be a potentially promising means of determining cerebral flow in patients undergoing cpr.
importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases. areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth. in extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved. the importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated. colonic anastomoses were performed in hooded-lister rats with and without omentectomy. animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour. with intraluminal injection, tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent (omental remnant). with intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent (in omental remnant) following omentectomy. in this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support 'seeded' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by, or be dependent on, the proximity of the omentum.
kearns-sayre syndrome presenting as renal tubular acidosis. renal tubular acidosis and tetany were the 1st manifestations of kearns-sayre syndrome in a 5-year-old child. subsequently, he developed progressive external ophthalmoplegia, ptosis, retinopathy, heart block, and endocrinopathy. there was a 7.5-kb deletion of mitochondrial dna documented in muscle, kidney, skin fibroblasts, and leukocytes, providing evidence for a multisystem mitochondrial cytopathy.
utility of surgical margins in the radiotherapeutic management of soft tissue sarcomas. seventy-four adult patients with localized soft tissue sarcomas were treated with radiation therapy following surgery between 1965 and 1988. fifty-three were treated after the first excision of their tumor with 6 (11.3%) local recurrences. twenty-one received radiation after excision of recurrent disease with 11 (52.4%) local failures (p less than .0005). metastatic disease occurred in 14 (26.4%) of the primary tumors and 8 (38.1%) with multiple previous excisions (p less than .48). of those patients treated for primary sarcoma, there were no local failures with pathologically wide margins or if a single margin was microscopically positive. local failure occurred in 4 of 26 (15.4%) if the tumor was merely enucleated and in 2 of 11 (18.2%) who had grossly positive surgical margins (p not significant). local failure was also more common in truncal locations (33.3%) as compared with extremity locations (8.7%, p = .1359). additional factors analyzed which adversely affected prognosis included tumor grade, stage, and inadequate radiation dose.
surgical treatment of active native valve endocarditis. a report is presented of 24 patients (23 male), mean age 38 years, who underwent surgery for active native valve endocarditis of the left heart in 1975-1988. the aortic valve was affected in all patients, and also the mitral valve in five. pre-existing aortic valve disorder was present in 17 cases (13 congenitally bicuspid 4 rheumatic affection). there were five hospital deaths (20.8%). staphylococci as causal organism and extensive infection predicted the highest mortality and morbidity. the mean follow-up time was 39.7 (range 2-114) months. two reoperations because of prosthetic valve dehiscence revealed endocarditis of the implanted valve. strong correlation was found between favourable postoperative course and rapid normalization of c-reactive protein levels, which did not fall in patients with persistent infection. early surgery is recommended if the course of bacterial endocarditis is severely complicated.
surgical resection of a solitary liver metastasis in a 46-year-old patient with a malignant thymoma. clinical history, surgical treatment, and pathologic findings of a solitary liver metastasis of a malignant thymoma in a 46-year-old female are reported. an extensive literature review has revealed no record of surgical resection of liver metastasis in a patient with invasive thymoma.
pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia in patients undergoing liver transplantation: an emerging problem. in our institution, pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia appeared to occur with increasing frequency in patients undergoing liver transplantation. we thus conducted a prospective study to define risk factors and outcome in these patients. over a 19-month period 6% of liver transplants were followed by pseudomonas bacteremia. the mean age was 46 years (range, 24 to 67 years). the interval between transplantation and onset of bacteremia was 3 to 372 days (mean, 80). the incidence of pseudomonas bacteremia in liver transplants was three times that of other transplants (heart, lung, kidney). ninety one percent of infections were nosocomial. polymicrobial bacteremia occurred in 30% of episodes. the portal of entry was respiratory in 30%, abdominal in 35%, and biliary in 13%. four patients had recurrent pseudomonas bacteremia: liver abscess (1), biliary obstruction (2), subhepatic abscess (1). survival at 14 days was 70%. survival rates were significantly lower for patients with hypotension, on mechanical ventilators, and increasing severity of illness (p less than 0.05). survival was higher when bacteremia occurred within the first 30 days after transplantation compared to after 30 days. a large number (43.4%) of pseudomonas bacteremias occurred after transplant surgery of biliary tract manipulation, while the patient was receiving a prophylactic regimen of cefotaxime and ampicillin. p. aeruginosa is an important pathogen in the liver transplant recipient; prevention may be possible for a subgroup of patients with the use of prophylactic antibiotics with activity against p. aeruginosa.
comparison of a hybrid with an uncemented total hip replacement. a retrospective matched-pair study. the efficacy of a type of uncemented total hip replacement was compared with that of a hybrid total hip replacement in which an uncemented acetabular and a cemented femoral component were used. twenty-five patients who had had a hybrid total hip replacement were matched, by age, weight, sex, and diagnosis, with twenty-five patients who had had an uncemented total hip replacement. all of the operations were done by one surgeon, who used the same operative approach and the same regimen of postoperative rehabilitation. all of the patients were followed for at least two years. the mean postoperative hip score was 96 points for the hybrid group and 84 points for the cementless group (p less than 0.02). twenty-four (96 per cent) of the patients who had a hybrid prosthesis reported no or only slight pain postoperatively. in the uncemented group, of the six patients (24 per cent) who reported mild to severe pain, five had pain in the thigh, a limp occurred more frequently, five femoral components had migrated, and four hips needed reoperation. the results with the hybrid replacement that had a cemented femoral component were superior to those with the uncemented femoral component over the relatively brief period for which these patients were followed.
primary intratemporal tumours of the facial nerve: diagnosis and treatment. benign primary tumours of the facial nerve are uncommon. a slowly progressive facial palsy should be considered the result of a nerve tumour until proven otherwise. improvements in diagnostic imaging techniques of the temporal bone have increased the possibility of a correct pre-operative diagnosis but facial nerve tumours remain a frequently ignored or misdiagnosed entity as a consequence of their subtle and protean clinical manifestations. a series of 12 cases of primary facial nerve tumours is presented. the clinical features, diagnostic modalities and treatment are discussed in relation to a review of the literature.
adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer. many women will not be cured of breast cancer by even the best early detection and surgical techniques because of micrometastases present at diagnosis. adjuvant therapy has extended the disease-free interval for most patients and lengthens overall survival for many. combination chemotherapy has become the standard form of adjuvant treatment for premenopausal women with breast cancer and positive lymph nodes after primary therapy. with minimal toxicity, disease-free and overall survival are improved. results are less impressive or less clear-cut for postmenopausal women or any woman with negative lymph nodes. long-term toxicities of adjuvant chemotherapy may include second malignancies and cardiac dysfunction. although these complications probably are rare, they must be considered seriously when weighing chemotherapy for patients in whom its benefits may be slight. innovations likely to become standard in adjuvant therapy decision making include risk assessment with new prognostic indicators (growth fraction, oncogene expression) and investigation of dose intensification using bone marrow growth factors and autologous stem-cell support.
myocardial infarction in the young adult. cad in young male adults below the age of 40 years has generally been found to be associated with the usual risk factors associated with cad. in a lesser number of young adults, mis may be related to cocaine use. sympathomimetic effects and increase in myocardial oxygen demand are factors considered responsible for acute mi in cocaine-abusing patients. in young adults who are asymptomatic following an acute mi and who are able to pass treadmill exercise stress tests at levels of bruce stage 4 have been shown to have normal coronary arteriograms. thus this subset should not require routine coronary angiograms following an acute mi.
bleeding gastroesophageal varices: gastric vein embolization after partial portal decompression. shunts that decompress the portal vein are effective in the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices. use of large-caliber portacaval shunts, however, results in the complete decompression of the portal system and the risk of subsequent development of hepatic encephalopathy. use of small-caliber portacaval shunts results in mild portal hypertension and less frequent hepatic encephalopathy but may increase the risk of recurrent bleeding. thirty-three patients underwent angiography after partial decompression portacaval shunting (median trans-shunt pressures, 8 mm hg). embolization of residual varices, noted in 13 patients, was performed. results included one complication with no sequelae and no bleeding a mean of 13 months after the procedure was performed. trans-shunt embolization of esophageal varices effectively prevents bleeding varices after partial portal decompression.
carcinoma of the breast: measurement and the management of treatment. i. the value of the data. this is the first of a series of papers in which we shall explore some insights into the biological changes which accompany the treatment of human tumours which may be obtained through estimation of volume changes in relation to treatment. we have adopted a working hypothesis that regression slopes reflect the composition of individual tumours and, indirectly, their intrinsic growth rate rather than the effectiveness of treatment. the breast has proved to be a suitable site for measurement and our interpretation of the results has led to the development of a new style of management for carcinoma of the breast: measurement based sequential therapy (mbst). in this paper the method of measurement and detailed statistical evaluation of the quality of the data from 262 patients (263 tumours) is presented. exponential regression lines have been fitted to describe volume changes in relation to treatment by radiation, chemotherapy and hormones. a simple classification of steepness of slopes is introduced.
experience with digoxin immune fab (ovine) in patients with renal impairment. digibind is a purified antigen binding fragment (fab) of immunoglobulin g antibodies raised to bind digoxin. studies in animals suggest renal excretion accounts for a substantial portion of fab's elimination. thus it is expected that elimination of antidigoxin fab fragments would be prolonged in patients with renal impairment; it remains unclear whether digoxin might be released with possible recurrence of toxicity. to shed light on this potential for recrudescent digitalis toxicity following release of bound digoxin, the author scrutinized the records of patients with impaired renal function who were treated with digibind. data are available from three sources: the original multicenter investigation of digibind in 150 patients with life-threatening digoxin or digitoxin toxicity, a postmarketing surveillance study of 745 patients treated with digibind, and all other reports in the literature or to burroughs wellcome co of physician experience with any antidigoxin fab. sixty percent of patients in the multicenter trial and 80% of patients in the postmarketing surveillance trial had some degree of renal impairment. patients with poor renal function had no evidence of decreased effectiveness or safety either in terms of percent of patients responding, onset of effect or evidence of recrudescence. from all sources the authors identified 28 patients treated with fab who were functionally anephric. twenty-seven of these patients had no evidence of recrudescent toxicity. one patient was reported to have complete resolution of digoxin-induced third-degree atrioventricular (av) block, but av block recurred 10 days after fab treatment and persisted for 10 days thereafter. although this case offers the only clinical evidence suggesting recrudescence can occur, there were no likely alternative explanations for the clinical findings.
clinical judgments in pain management. from research reports published over the last 20 years, it appears that moderate to severe uncontrolled pain may be the norm for hospitalized patients despite recent advances in the management of pain. research on the extent of under-management of pain and the factors associated with it is examined and summarized in this paper. methodological imperfections of the research are identified. several explanations for pain under-management have been proposed and these are reported. a clinical decision making model is also reviewed and it is suggested that this model could be applied to pain management problems. further, it is suggested that this model may be very useful in developing educational interventions to improve health practitioners' clinical skills in pain management.
infectious mononucleosis complicated by lingual tonsillitis. although upper airway obstruction and superimposed infection are well-known complications of infectious mononucleosis, lingual tonsillitis in this context has not been mentioned in the literature. we describe a case of acute bacterial lingual tonsillitis with airway obstruction complicating infectious mononucleosis. the role of the base of tongue region in the pathophysiology of infectious mononucleosis is discussed.
value of magnetic resonance imaging in spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma due to vascular malformation: case report. a case of spinal cord compression due to spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma is reported. a spinal arteriovenous malformation was suspected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging. early surgical exploration allowed a complete neurological recovery. the vascular malformation was histopathologically confirmed. the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of acute spinal cord compression syndromes is stressed.
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer. the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years (mean, 41 years) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 (il-2) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy. death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients, sepsis in four patients, acute myocardial infarction in one patient, and myocarditis in one patient. transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing. noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients: the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one. although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon (1.5% in 652 consecutive patients), the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists, and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted.
the effect of large uterine fibroids on urinary bladder function and symptoms. fourteen patients with large uterine fibroids and urinary symptoms were treated with monthly injections of [d-trp6]-luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone microcapsules. the average uterine size before treatment was 728 ml; it dropped to 323 ml (a drop of 55%) after treatment. urinary symptoms of diurnal frequency disappeared in 11 of 12 patients (p less than 0.005) after the reduction of uterine size. urgency decreased in 11 of 13 (p less than 0.005) and nocturia in eight of 10 (p less than 0.02). no differences were found before and after treatment in the symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence in the cystometric and urethral pressure profile measurements. urinary symptoms of frequency, urgency, and nocturia may be caused by the direct pressure exerted on the bladder by the enlarged uterus. symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence deserve a more specific treatment as they are not related to uterine size.
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia. not just a disease of children. rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community. we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever (arf) in west virginia. this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years. in contrast to the other reports, nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults, more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf. in these adults with recurrences, none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation. carditis was present in seven adults, two without a history of carditis. arthritis was present in all adult patients. these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood. furthermore, our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf, especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection.
lambert eaton syndrome: autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung. a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung developed asymptomatic autonomic neuropathy, inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (adh) secretion and lambert eaton myasthenic syndrome. the autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate adh secretion were present at the time of diagnosis of the tumour. following chemotherapy these resolved, but 5 months later the patient developed lambert eaton syndrome which responded to 3,4-diaminopyridine. this sequence of changes appears to be unique.
case-control study of cryptosporidium parvum infection in peruvian children hospitalized for diarrhea: possible association with malnutrition and nosocomial infection. a retrospective, hospital-based case-control study was used to investigate whether there were any clinical characteristics that could distinguish cryptosporidium parvum-infected children with diarrhea from other non-c. parvum-infected children with diarrhea. ten percent (24 of 248) of children admitted to a rehydration ward at cayetano heredia university hospital, lima, peru, were infected with c. parvum. the 24 patients infected with c. parvum (cases) were matched to an equal number of noninfected patients (controls). c. parvum-infected patients were more likely to be malnourished than were children without this infection (p less than 0.05). also nosocomial infection caused by c. parvum occurred in three severely malnourished patients, two of whom died. no other clinical or laboratory characteristics were found that would distinguish children with diarrhea caused by c. parvum from other children with diarrhea. in children hospitalized for diarrhea c. parvum infection occurs most frequently in malnourished children.
renormalization of high cardiac output and of left ventricular size following long-term recombinant human erythropoietin treatment of anemic dialyzed uremic patients. to obtain information on the effects of the correction of uremic anemia on cardiac function and size, nine normotensive dialyzed patients were studied before, during and six months after the start of i.v. treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin (rhuepo). pulsed-doppler echocardiographic determinations of the cardiac index (ci) and m-mode echocardiographic estimations of the indexed left ventricular end diastolic diameter (lveddi), interventricular septum (ivsi), left ventricular posterior wall (lvpwi), with calculations of the left ventricular mass index (lvmi), were made on every occasion. mean (+/- sd) hemoglobin (hb) concentration before rhuepo was 5.9 +/- 1.3 g/dl and rose significantly (p less than 0.0001) up to the third month, then remained constant. baseline ci (3.4 +/- 0.6 l/min/m2bsa) was significantly higher (p less than 0.0001) than in healthy subjects (2.5 +/- 0.5 l), and decreased after the third month to a value (2.8 +/- 0.5 l) no longer different from that of controls. from pooled baseline and third month data, an inverse relationship between hb and ci was found (p less than 0.0001). baseline lveddi (32.7 +/- 4.3 mm/m2bsa), ivsi (6 +/- 1.1 mm/m2bsa) and lvpwi (5 +/- 0.8 mm/m2bsa) were all significantly higher than in controls. after three months of therapy, the only change was a decrease in lvpwi while after six months all indices, including the lvmi, decreased to values no longer higher than in controls. from pooled baseline and six months data, an inverse relationship between hb and lvmi was found (p less than 0.0001). we conclude that treatment of uremic patients by rhuepo is able to renormalize their already increased cardiac output soon after correction of the anemia.
coumadin-induced gastrointestinal hemorrhage associated with an ileal duplication. a 31-year-old man had recurrent gastrointestinal hemorrhage after aortic valve replacement and initiation of anticoagulation therapy with coumadin. radionuclide bleeding scan and subsequent contrast angiogram demonstrated a site of hemorrhage in the distal ileum, and at surgery a 1.8-cm spherical duplication was found. on histologic examination, the duplication was lined with normal ileal mucosa, and near the mouth of the duplication an inflammatory ulceration proved to be the site of hemorrhage. in a young patient with anticoagulation-associated gastrointestinal hemorrhage, alimentary tract duplication should be considered.
suppression of mouse mammary tumorigenesis by long-term tamoxifen therapy. a sustained release of tamoxifen, which produced decreasing serum levels of this drug (24 to 4 ng/ml) over 6 months, suppressed mammary tumorigenesis in virgin or once pregnant c3h/ouj female mice. tamoxifen was consistently more effective than early ovariectomy, which only delayed tumorigenesis. tamoxifen prevented the stimulatory action of cyclical (alternate-month) progesterone administration on mouse mammary tumorigenesis. however, when tamoxifen treatment (12 months) was stopped, progesterone treatment initiated tumorigenesis. in contrast, when long-term tamoxifen treatment was stopped in mice that had not undergone ovariectomy, and estrous cycle returned, the majority of these mice remained tumor free. a comparison of different durations (3, 6, and 12 months) of tamoxifen treatment of virgin mice, starting at approximately 4 months of age, showed an equivalent effect on mammary tumorigenesis. all virgin mice developed tumors by 18 months of age, whereas 80% of the tamoxifen-treated mice were tumor free. nevertheless, cyclical progesterone administration caused rapid development of tumors after 3 months of tamoxifen treatment; only 15% of these mice were tumor free at 18 months. cyclical progesterone administration caused an increase in tumorigenesis after 6 months of tamoxifen treatment; 50% of these mice were tumor free at 18 months of age. these data demonstrate the efficacy of tamoxifen to suppress mouse mammary tumorigenesis and demonstrate that continuous tamoxifen therapy is necessary to prevent the development of tumors by progesterone, a stimulatory hormone.
circadian variations in myocardial ischemia. implications for management. extended ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in the patient's customary environment provides clear evidence of circadian patterns in myocardial ischemic episodes. in patients with effort angina, the highest activity occurs between 6 am and noon. this coincides with peaks in diurnal variation of frequency of acute myocardial infarction, stroke, and sudden death. a number of potential underlying common triggering mechanisms, including catecholamine secretion, sympathetic nervous system activity, blood pressure, heart rate, cortisol secretion, and aggregability of platelets, exhibit similar surges. as a result of these coinciding morning peaks, myocardial oxygen demand is increased and oxygen supply reduced after a person arises in the morning. attention to this vulnerable period is merited in the timing and choice of medication, both to prevent or reduce ischemia and to modify potential disease-triggering mechanisms.
growth factor requirements of childhood acute t-lymphoblastic leukemia: correlation between presence of chromosomal abnormalities and ability to grow permanently in vitro. cells from 10 cases of childhood acute t-lymphoblastic leukemia (t-all) were cultured in the presence of recombinant human interleukins (rhil) or colony-stimulating factors (csf) to analyze their growth factor requirements and differentiative potential. although cells from most leukemic samples displayed a short-term proliferative response to several hematopoietic growth factors, only the ones featuring chromosomal translocations could be established as permanent cell lines. two cell lines could be initiated only in the presence of il-3 (tall-103 and tall-106), one in granulocyte-macrophage csf (gm-csf) (tall-101), and one in il-2 (tall-104); only one cell line (tall-105) was originated in the absence of growth factors. the tall-101 and tall-103 cell lines, derived from very immature t-all cases, underwent growth factor-dependent phenotypic conversion (lymphoid to myeloid). however, the t-cell receptor rearrangement and karyotype of the original leukemic clones were retained. in contrast, the tall-104, -105, and -106 cell lines which originated from more mature t-all cases, maintained a t-lymphoblastic phenotype regardless of the growth factors in which they were expanded. these data demonstrate in vitro the aggressive nature of t-all cases bearing chromosomal abnormalities, and indicate that the lineage commitment of the malignant clone depends on its stage of maturation in t-cell ontogeny.
dna sequence analysis of three inhibitor-positive hemophilia b patients without gross gene deletion: identification of four novel mutations in factor ix gene. three hemophilia b patients with anti-factor ix antibodies who had no detectable gross deletion of the factor ix gene by southern blotting analysis were investigated at the molecular level. all eight exons, accompanied by their splicing junction sites and presumptive promoter regions of the factor ix gene in these patients (total 5.5 kb in length) were amplified with the use of the polymerase chain reaction, followed by complete nucleotide sequence analysis. three different types of novel single base substitutions and a 2 base-pair nucleotide deletion were identified. patient hb-5 had two point mutations in his factor ix gene. one was located at the promoter region at nucleotide -793 and the other (c-to-t transition) was found in exon vi of the gene changing gln-191 to a stop codon. patient hb-6 had a point mutation (g-to-a) in the splice acceptor site, which interrupted the normal splicing of the last intron g. a small two-nucleotide deletion in exon iii was detected in patient hb-7 and yielded frameshifted amino acids and terminated by a stop codon. these resuslts suggest that not only the gross gene deletion of factor ix gene but also the point mutations or small nucleotide deletion that may cause the interruption of coding informations for mature protein synthesis is predisposed to development of anti-factor ix inhibitors in patients with hemophilia b.
angiographic follow-up and clinical outcome of 126 patients after percutaneous directional atherectomy (simpson atherocath) for occlusive peripheral vascular disease. angiographic and clinical follow-up data were obtained in 115/126 patients who underwent directional atherectomy for peripheral vascular disease; of the 126, ten were excluded for appropriate reasons and one was lost to follow-up. thus, 115/116 successful atherectomy patients (99%) had follow-up of 182/213 lesions (86%): 74 patients (64%) with angiography (mean time 5.4 mon), and 41 patients (36%) clinically. one hundred twenty-eight of 183 lesions (70%) had angiographic follow-up; the lesion recurrence as a stenosis or as an occlusion was 53%. lesion distribution did not differ between angiography and clinical follow-up groups: nearly 85% were within the superficial femoral or popliteal arteries. despite data stratification, angiographic follow-up indicated that patients after successful directional atherectomy, at a mean follow-up time of 5 mos, have more than a 50% lesion recurrence rate. although directional atherectomy (simpson atherocath) utilizing present techniques has excellent primary success and acceptable complication rates, angiographic follow-up statistics are bothersome.
clinical classification and staging for primary malignancies of the maxillary antrum. a study of 51 patients with primary malignant maxillary sinus neoplasms was conducted. none of the patients had neck nodes and/or metastases, and each had 5-year follow-up. the tumors were staged according to the 1983 and 1988 american joint committee on cancer staging systems for maxillary sinus cancers. there were 13 early stage (t1, t2) and 38 advanced (t3, t4) tumors in both systems. cox regression analyses of survival curves showed increasingly worse prognoses for advanced tumors in both t-staging systems. further analyses showed a significant difference in survival between t3 and t4 in the 1988, but not in the 1983 system. there were no significant differences in survival according to treatment modality or histological type of malignancy. we conclude that the 1988 system prognosticates successfully for t-stage (1 to 4) and demonstrates significant improvement in detecting t3 versus t4 differences compared to the 1983 system. the 1988 system applies equally for epidermoid cancer and other malignancies of the antrum.
hospital management of voluntary total fasting among political prisoners in 1989 20 political detainees, held without trial for up to 32 months, were admitted, on hunger strike, to the johannesburg hospital, south africa. most were held under the regulations of the state of emergency (since revoked) and 5 were held incommunicado under section 29 of the internal security act (still in force). guidelines for ethical management were based on the declaration of tokyo, which included the understanding that such detentions constituted mental torture. conditions of detention in hospital were complicated by police interference in medical and nursing care, and by the chaining of some prisoners to their beds. doctors are in a unique position to protest against inhuman treatment of prisoners, and should use this authority.
scrotal inflammatory disease: color doppler us findings. a study of 45 patients with 51 cases of hemiscrotal inflammatory disease was done to determine the color doppler ultrasonographic appearance of scrotal inflammatory disorders. the diagnosis was ultimately established by means of appropriate response to antibiotic treatment (47 cases) or surgery (four cases). in all cases, there was evidence of hyperemia: an increased number and concentration of detectable vessels in the affected portion of the scrotum. in 17 cases, the gray scale images were normal, and the only evidence of inflammation was the presence of hypervascularity. abnormally decreased epididymal vascular resistance was detected in 14 cases of epididymitis; abnormally decreased testicular vascular resistance was detected in six cases of orchitis. spontaneous venous flow was present in 18 patients. the authors conclude that color doppler can demonstrate the hyperemic response to scrotal inflammatory disease and that, in the proper clinical setting, it can supplement the gray scale findings and increase diagnostic confidence.
sick building syndrome. "sick building syndrome" (sbs) is one of the more colorful terms describing an increasingly common pattern of symptoms found among workers in modern office buildings. core symptoms include lethargy, mucous membrane irritation, headache, eye irritation, and dry skin. to prompt a diagnosis of sbs, these otherwise common symptoms must be "excessively" reported and primarily "work-related." the world health organization now estimates that 30% of new or remodeled office buildings show signs of sbs, and that between 10% and 30% of the occupants of these buildings are affected by sbs. despite such figures, sbs remains poorly researched and even more poorly understood. the following review provides the clinician an overview of sbs that will allow a more accurate differential diagnosis and will help to prevent the widespread suffering that can accrue when sbs is not quickly recognized.
spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma: a review of 172 japanese cases. the spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) accounts for 10% mortality of hcc patients in japan. because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries, it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a hcc. in an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment, we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a hcc reported in the japanese literature. the chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain. abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86% of the patients. liver failure was the cause of death in 42% of the patients. therefore, it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly. in addition, emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock. although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12% of the cases, these had the highest survival rates. consequently, this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a hcc.
conservative management of asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm. historical review shows that the treatment of popliteal aneurysm has developed by trial and error and there is disagreement about the proper management of the symptomless patient. in 1981 a policy of conservative management for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm was adopted in this unit. since that time we have also managed nine patients with thrombosed popliteal aneurysms by arteriography and low-dose intra-arterial streptokinase. six patients treated within 72 h of occlusion achieved significant (70-100 per cent) lysis, but streptokinase was ineffective in those treated 10 or more days after the thrombosis. of the six patients with significant lysis, three were treated by elective reconstruction and two by anticoagulation. one patient who had significant lysis died. vascular patency of all five successfully treated limbs was maintained and no limb loss occurred in those who presented late and failed to achieve significant lysis. these results reinforce the view that thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for thrombosed popliteal aneurysms. the low complication rate for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms and the advent of safe, effective thrombolysis indicate that operation for symptomless popliteal aneurysm is no longer required.
immunosuppressive therapy in the management of acute myocarditis in children: a clinical trial. to assess whether steroid therapy influenced the clinical course of myocarditis in a pediatric population, findings in 13 consecutive infants and children (8 female, 5 male) with biopsy-proved myocarditis were reviewed. the mean age was 5.7 +/- 4.8 years (range 1.1 to 14.8). congestive heart failure was present in all as were st-t wave changes, cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema on chest roentgenogram. echocardiography demonstrated pericardial effusion in five patients and mitral regurgitation in eight. mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 34 +/- 12%. prednisone was administered to all patients; one patient also received azathioprine. there was one death. all survivors showed clinical improvement with normalization of ecg changes, heart size and systolic function. no significant side effects occurred. repeat myocardial biopsy in eight patients demonstrated improvement in all eight and elimination of the inflammatory infiltrate in six. immunosuppressive therapy in this pediatric population appeared useful in improving the clinical course and cardiac function in acute myocarditis with no adverse side effects.
computerized tomography in acute gastrointestinal disorders. in recent years, computerized tomography (ct) has become one of the most important imaging modalities in evaluation of patients with acute gastrointestinal disorders. its role, diagnostic accuracy, indications, and limitations in some of the most commonly encountered acute abdominal conditions are succinctly presented and reviewed. ct should not be used indiscriminantly, but is best considered a valuable primary or complimentary diagnostic tool in critically ill patients. its selective use in a variety of emergency abdominal diseases will significantly improve accuracy of clinical diagnoses, leading to a prompt and adequate medical or surgical management.
alterations in endocardial vascular resistance after reperfusion in a low flow, high demand model of ischemia: effects of dipyridamole and web-2086, a platelet-activating factor antagonist. to determine if alterations in regional coronary vascular resistance could occur in the type of myocardial ischemia present in severe angina pectoris, regional perfusion and function were studied in 35 conscious sedated dogs. a stenosis producing severe hypokinesia of the perfused segment was created for 2 h on the left anterior descending coronary artery and 10 episodes of 1 min of high demand ischemia (atrial pacing at a rate sufficient to induce dyskinesia in the hypoperfused segment) were superimposed before reperfusion. the dogs were randomized into three treatment groups: control (n = 13), dipyridamole (n = 10) or web-2086 (n = 12), an antagonist of the effects of the endogenous platelet-activating factor. during stenosis, residual endocardial blood flow in the ischemic but nonnecrotic area averaged 0.72 +/- 0.14, 0.38 +/- 0.13 and 0.68 +/- 0.17 ml/min per g in the control, web-2086 and dipyridamole groups, respectively. twenty-four hours after reperfusion, endocardial blood flow in the ischemic area was significantly lower in control dogs (1.04 +/- 0.15 ml/min per g) than in dogs treated with web-2086 (1.44 +/- 0.28 ml/min per g; p less than 0.03) or dipyridamole (3.00 +/- 0.83 ml/min per g; p less than 0.01). accordingly, in control dogs, endocardial coronary vascular resistance in the ischemic area was increased after reperfusion from 85 +/- 11 to 124 +/- 27 mm hg/(ml/min per g) (p less than 0.05) after 24 h. in contrast, coronary vascular resistance in the ischemic area remained unchanged in dogs receiving web-2086 (77 +/- 8 to 79 +/- 9 mm hg/(ml/min per g); p = ns) and it decreased significantly in dogs receiving dipyridamole (72 +/- 8 to 44 +/- 8 mm hg/(ml/min per g); p less than 0.01). regional function after 24 h remained depressed in all three groups. these data indicate that low flow, high demand ischemia induces alterations in the subendocardial microvasculature. such alterations in regional coronary vascular resistance might play a role in several forms of ischemic heart disease such as in severe angina, but they appear susceptible to improvement by therapeutic interventions that influence granulocyte and platelet activation.
needle aspiration and pressure sutures for auricular pseudocyst. auricular pseudocyst is an asymptomatic cystic swelling of the upper portion of the auricle. various therapeutic approaches have been employed with variable success. we report our results with nine patients treated by needle aspiration and bolstered pressure sutures applied over both aspects of the cyst for 1 week. treatment resulted in complete resolution with no recurrence of the lesion in any of the patients. this procedure is simple, does not require an operating room setting, and is more comfortable and more acceptable aesthetically by the patient.
colonic stenoses: use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies. forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations, without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction, were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session. all patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination. the authors describe the technique, as well as the clinical and radiologic findings, that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon. in all patients, oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes, with no complications. in seven patients, there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel, and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients. if a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon, additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium. this practice is safe if precise criteria are applied.
rapid sequence anesthesia induction for emergency intubation. emergency intubations are done for a variety of reasons in the emergency department (ed). in some patients, a rapid, controlled induction of anesthesia is useful to facilitate intubation and to reduce the complications of intubation. this is referred to a rapid sequence induction (rsi) in the anesthesia literature. atropine, thiopental, fentanyl, diazepam, ketamine, vecuronium, succinylcholine, other drugs and their applications for rsi are described. the purpose of this article is to describe the use of rsi in the airway management of ed patients. nineteen pediatric patients requiring emergency intubation were intubated using rsi with vecuronium and thiopental. actual intubation difficulty using rsi was significantly less than the anticipated intubation difficulty without rsi. there were no complications caused by intubation or rsi that had a significant impact on patient outcome. we feel that a sedative in combination with vecuronium represents the most optimal means of achieving rsi in the ed setting. although the induction of general anesthesia is best done by anesthesiologists, emergency physicians are often the most experienced physicians immediately available to manage an airway in a critical emergency. an objective protocol such as that described will make it easier for emergency physicians to perform this procedure when needed.
papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with mucoepidermoid features. the significance and differential diagnoses of signet-ring cells found in the fine-needle aspirate of metastatic mucoepidermoid carcinoma from the thyroid are reported and discussed. the primary tumor occurred in a 35-year-old man, who had a history of neck irradiation during his childhood. despite postoperative treatment with 60 gy external radiation and 1,200 mci 131i, the patient has at present--12 years after the initial operation--progressive disease with local recurrence in the neck as well as lung metastases.
treatment of fallopian tube carcinoma with cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide. primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube is uncommon and is often treated using regimens active in ovarian carcinoma. evidence is scant that such therapies benefit patients with fallopian tube carcinoma. between december 1979 and july 1988, we treated 18 patients who had adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube with the combination of cisplatin (50 mg/m2), doxorubicin (50 mg/m2), and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2) administered intravenously on 1 day every 28 days. histologic confirmation of fallopian tube carcinoma was obtained before entry in the study. three patients had stage i disease, five had stage ii, nine had stage iii, and one had stage iv. sixteen patients received the combination therapy as first-line treatment after cytoreductive surgery, and two patients received it for recurrent carcinoma. seven patients had clinically measurable disease at the start of therapy. two of these patients had a complete clinical response, two had stable disease, and three had progressive disease. eight of the 15 patients with stages ii-iv disease underwent second-look laparotomy; four had a complete response to therapy and four had a partial response, making the overall response rate 53%. the toxicity of the regimen was moderate. the median survival was 81 months. patients with stages ii-iv disease had a median survival of 43.9 months and a progression-free survival of 22.5 months. this regimen appears to be active in fallopian tube carcinoma and can result in response rates comparable to those reported for epithelial ovarian cancer.
melioidosis. forgotten, but not gone! melioidosis, infection by the soil bacterium pseudomonas pseudomallei, has the potential for prolonged latency with recrudescence into an acute, often fulminating, and fatal infection. although the organism is never found in north america, infection is endemic in areas of southeast asia, and populations of service personnel exposed during the vietnam war and southeast asian immigrants are at risk of severe recrudescent disease. diagnosis, however, has been missed or delayed because of lack of familiarity with this disease. we present a case of recrudescent melioidosis that illustrates the difficulties encountered in diagnosis and treatment. this case involves a 76-year-old vietnam veteran who presented with melioidosis of the bone 18 years after exposure to the organism and 10 years after a missed diagnosis of latent pulmonary disease. this case illustrates the protean nature of latent infection and the difficulty of selecting successful antibiotic therapy.
is liver transplantation justified for the treatment of hepatic malignancies? twenty-eight patients received orthotopic liver transplants for malignant disease between february 1, 1984, and december 31, 1989. preoperative diagnoses included hepatocellular carcinoma (n = 16), cholangiocarcinoma (n = 3), other primary hepatic tumors (n = 6), and metastatic diseases to the liver (n = 3). overall actuarial survivals at 6 months, 1 year, and 5 years were 67.3%, 51%, and 31%, respectively. long-term survival longer than 5 years was achieved in 3 patients. the recurrence rate in patients surviving longer than 3 months is 48% (median, 7 months). hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma had the poorest survival and highest recurrence rates. specific prognostic factors correlating with survival or recurrence could not be elucidated. these results indicate that orthotopic liver transplants can provide long-term cure and palliation for malignant disease; however, patient selection is extremely important in predicting outcome.
clinical experience with technetium-99m teboroxime, a neutral, lipophilic myocardial perfusion imaging agent. technetium-99m (tc-99m) teboroxime is a new technetium-based myocardial perfusion imaging agent (investigational code = sq30217 [cardiotec, squibb diagnostics]). a member of a class of neutral, lipophilic, technetium-containing complexes known as boronic acid adducts of technetium dioxime (bato) complexes, this agent is chemically very different from the cationic tracer thallium-201 (tl-201) and from the cationic technetium complex tc-99m sestamibi (cardiolite, du pont imaging agents). tc-99m teboroxime has high myocardial extraction, rapid blood clearance, little lung uptake and rapid myocardial washout. a biexponential pattern of myocardial washout is demonstrated in animals and in man. effective half-lives of the 2 washout components in man are 5.2 minutes and 3.8 hours and represent approximately 66 and 33% of the myocardial activity, respectively. the first half-life for the myocardium is approximately 11 minutes. as the agent washes out of the heart, hepatic uptake occurs, peaking at about 5 minutes after injection. the liver is the major organ of excretion and receives, along with the large bowel, the largest radiation dose. rapid imaging protocols using standard cameras have achieved good myocardial counts from 3 planar views acquired over a 4- to 5-minute period or for single photon emission computed tomography (spect) images acquired over a 10-minute period. an entire stress/rest procedure can be completed in 1 hour. analysis of data from 155 patients from 4 centers using planar or spect imaging showed a sensitivity and specificity for blinded readings of 82 and 91%, respectively, when compared against overall clinical impression.
heparin as an adjunctive treatment after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. the rationale for considering heparin therapy as an adjunct to thrombolytic treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction is to prevent rethrombosis after successful thrombolysis. the risk of reocclusion is high immediately after thrombolysis because blood flowing through the newly opened coronary artery is exposed to thrombin bound to fibrin in the residual thrombus. clinical studies of patients with venous thrombosis and acute myocardial infarction indicate that there is a relation between the anticoagulant response to heparin and clinical efficacy and that the concept of a therapeutic heparin level is valid. subcutaneous doses of approximately 15,000 u twice a day fail to provide an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in the majority of patients, whereas intravenous administration of a bolus of 5,000 u followed by continuous infusion of 30,000 u per 24 hours produces an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in approximately 80% of patients. studies of patients with myocardial infarction who received streptokinase showed a significant beneficial effect on mortality when 12,500 u of heparin was administered subcutaneously 2 times per day. in contrast, the single largest study evaluating heparin 12,500 u administered subcutaneously 2 times per day as an adjunct to recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-pa) treatment did not show a beneficial effect on mortality. however, studies using full-dose intravenous heparin therapy demonstrated that heparin improves patency after coronary thrombolysis with rt-pa.
the use of an amniotic membrane graft to prevent postoperative adhesions. grafts of trypsin-treated, gamma-irradiated human amniotic membranes were used to cover injured uterine horns of nulliparous female rabbits to prevent adhesions. in this study, the gradual integration of the membranes into the serosal layer of the uterus, together with marked neovascularization, was observed. by the 30th postoperative day, the grafts had been completely integrated, with little evidence of rejection and no evidence of infection at the graft sites. of 30 uterine horns treated with membrane grafts, only 4 (13.4%) showed any adhesion formation at or among the graft sites. all of the 24 untreated controls showed adhesion formation at the site of injury. furthermore, whatever adhesions were found in membrane-treated horns could be graded as thin and filmy, accounting for less than 10% of the surface area of the graft, whereas the controls showed dense, thick adhesions covering 50% to 100% of the injured areas. we conclude that these specially prepared amniotic membranes are safe and effective in dramatically reducing postoperative adhesion formation in this animal model.
threat of unemployment and cardiovascular risk factors: longitudinal study of quality of sleep and serum cholesterol concentrations in men threatened with redundancy. objective--to assess whether the threat of unemployment affects risk factors for cardiovascular disease. design--longitudinal study of a cohort of middle aged shipyard workers followed up for a mean of 6.2 (sd 1.9) years and a group of controls observed for the same period. the first investigation took place during a period of relative economic stability for the shipyard and the second during the phase of its closure. setting--an age cohort health screening programme in malmo, sweden. participants--715 male shipyard workers and 261 age matched male controls. main outcome measures--changes in 19 variables related to the risk of cardiovascular disease, and psychological variables, alcohol consumption, smoking, and dietary habits as assessed by questionnaire. results--serum cholesterol concentrations increased more (mean 0.25 (sd 0.68) mmol/l v 0.08 (0.66) mmol/l) and serum calcium concentrations decreased less (-0.06 (0.10) mmol/l v -0.08 (0.09) mmol/l) in the shipyard workers than in the controls. a correlation was found between scores for sleep disturbance and changes in serum cholesterol concentration. in the whole series there was a greater increase in serum cholesterol concentrations among men threatened with unemployment (437/976; 44.8%) than among those who were not. in stepwise regression analysis the change in serum cholesterol concentration was correlated with changes in haemoglobin concentration, body weight, and serum triglyceride and calcium concentrations. a positive correlation was found between change in cholesterol concentration and change in blood pressure, indicating that the overall risk profile had worsened among men with increased serum cholesterol concentrations. conclusions--risk of unemployment increases the serum cholesterol concentration in middle aged men, the increase being more pronounced in those with sleep disturbance. the increase in serum cholesterol is related to changes in other established risk factors for cardiovascular disease. these findings might partly explain the excessive mortality due to cardiovascular disease recorded among the unemployed and people with sleep disturbance.
high incidence of hepatitis b infection and evolution of chronic hepatitis b infection in patients with advanced hiv infection. two hundred eleven hiv-seropositive patients with aids, aids-related complex, or a cd4+ cell count less than 200 x 10(6) were examined for the presence of hepatitis b virus markers during the course of their hiv infection (median follow-up of 18 months; range of 1 to 107 months). anti-hbs was detected initially in 138 patients (65%). sixteen patients (8%) were hbsag positive at entry. fourteen had chronic hbv infection of whom 12 initially were positive for hbeag and hbv dna; 11 remained positive during follow-up, whereas one seroconverted to anti-hbe and lost hbv dna. two patients with chronic hbv infection were initially negative for hbeag and hbv dna: one later had reactivated hbv replication and one cleared hbeag following onset of hepatitis d infection. the last two hbsag-positive patients had resolving acute hbv infection. six of the 57 patients who initially were negative for hbv markers acquired hbv infection during follow-up. four of these six patients developed chronic infection whereas two patients had acute subclinical resolving hepatitis. in addition, four patients became hbsag positive with their last serum samples, possibly indicating reactivation of hbv infection following progressive immunological and clinical deterioration. none of the patients developed clinical symptoms that could be ascribed to hbv infection, and transaminase elevations were only sporadically recorded. it is concluded that acquisition of hbv infections is not infrequent in hiv-seropositive patients with immune deficiency. furthermore, the course of both previously established chronic hbv infection and newly acquired hbv infection is modified in such patients, whereas reactivation of past hbv infection seems to be a rare event.
infantile spasms. infantile spasms are a seizure disorder in young infants with diverse etiologies, suggesting that they arise from any disturbance of central nervous system function during susceptible periods of development. the prognosis for normal intellectual and neurologic development parallels that of the underlying etiology. early and appropriate treatment with acth may lead to seizure control in a majority of patients. the treating physician must anticipate the side effects of this modality.
dietary preference for sweet foods in patients with dementia using a telephone survey, patients with probable alzheimer's disease (n = 31) and vascular dementia (n = 14) were compared with elderly normal controls (n = 43) in preferences for different foods. patients with alzheimer's disease had a greater preference than normal controls for relatively high-fat, sweet foods and for high-sugar, low-fat foods, but did not significantly differ in preference for other foods, including those high in complex carbohydrates and protein. vascular dementia patients showed a similar pattern, not significantly different from that for alzheimer's patients. results did not consistently support a hypothesis that increased sweet preference is a nonspecific form of disinhibited behavior related to declining mental status, nor was a hypothesis relating sweet preference to serotonin activity within the brain consistently supported. results provide preliminary evidence that craving for sweet food may be a significant part of the clinical syndrome of dementia, but further research is needed to delineate the psychological and biological mechanisms accounting for it.
comparison of thallium-201 and technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile single-photon emission computed tomography for estimating the extent of myocardial ischemia and infarction in coronary artery disease. single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) using thallium-201 (tl-201) was compared with technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (tc-99m mibi) in 24 patients with coronary artery diseaes. patients exercised to the same work load as each isotope was studied. normal and hypoperfused left ventricular mass was determined with an automated method. estimated total left ventricular mass was similar for both stress/redistribution tl-201 and stress/rest tc-99m mibi images. the mean estimated defect size in the redistribution tl-201 images was 32 +/- 34.7 vs 33 +/- 38.4 g in the resting tc-99m mibi studies (difference not significant). the individual determinations of defect mass were highly correlated (r = 0.93; p less than 0.0001). estimated defect size in the stress tl-201 images (52 +/- 46.2 g) was significantly larger than the exercise tc-99m mibi estimates of defect mass (42 +/- 39.9 g; p less than 0.05). a linear correlation existed between stress thallium and technetium estimates of defect size (r = 0.85) but 15 of 24 tc-99m mibi defects were smaller than the tl-201 defects. partial redistribution of tc-99m mibi could explain the discordance. stress tc-99m mibi spect defect size determined by visual interpretation or by the use of isocount analysis may be smaller than what is seen with stress tl-201 spect.
the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection in young children: comparison of findings from several developing countries. coordinated data group of bostid researchers. investigators from 10 countries studied the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection (ari) among children 0-59 months old. data on incidence rates, by age, gender, and season; on pathogenic agents; on case-fatality rates; and on selected risk factor findings are presented. incidence rates from six of the community-based studies ranged from 12.7 to 16.8 new episodes of ari per 100 child-weeks at risk, and rates of lower respiratory tract infection (lri) ranged from 0.2 to 3.4 new episodes per 100 child-weeks at risk. children spend from 21.7% to 40.1% of observed weeks with ari and from 1% to 14.4% of observed weeks with lri. the incidence rates for ari are highest in younger children. viruses, especially respiratory syncytial virus, are isolated more frequently than bacteria from children with episodes of lri. risk factors exhibited different patterns of association with ari in different studies. interventions could have great impact on high-risk levels common in the study populations. these studies provide interesting and useful data on the epidemiologic dynamics of ari.
influence of organ environment on extracellular matrix degradative activity and metastasis of human colon carcinoma cells orthotopic implantation of human colon carcinoma cells is useful for studying the behavior of metastatic subpopulations. we observed that the parental line and variants of human colon carcinoma km12 cells were all tumorigenic following implantation into the subcutis or cecal wall of balb/c nude mice. their ability to metastasize to distant organ sites varied, however, with the site of growth. subcutaneous (sc) tumors did not produce visceral metastases, whereas cecal tumors metastasized to the regional mesenteric lymph nodes and to the liver. to examine the influence of organ environment on the extracellular matrix-degrading activity of the tumors, we inoculated human colon carcinoma cells into the subcutis or cecal wall and after 7 weeks isolated and cultured the tumors in serum-free medium. the conditioned media of sc tumors contained very low levels of type iv collagenase (gelatinase) and heparanase (heparan sulfate-specific endo-beta-d-glucuronidase), whereas the media of the cecal wall tumors contained high levels of both. zymograms of the media revealed that the intracecal human colon carcinomas secreted more than three times the amount of latent and active forms of 92-kd type iv collagenase than did the sc tumors. moreover, only the conditioned media of intracecal tumors contained latent and active forms of 64-kd type iv collagenase. histochemical analysis using rabbit antiserum raised against the synthetic peptides of 72-kd procollagenase type iv showed type iv collagenase in the intracecal tumors; human colon carcinoma growing sc, however, were not stained significantly. these results suggest that factors in the organ environment may affect production and secretion of tumor extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes, and these factors may modify the metastatic behavior of human colon carcinoma cells in nude mice.
the ucla-university of utah epidemiologic survey of autism: the etiologic role of rare diseases. twelve rare diseases known to cause cns pathology were found in 26 (11%) of 233 autistic probands identified during a recent epidemiologic survey of utah. these 26 probands had significantly lower mean iqs than the remaining patients (43 versus 60) but similar sex distribution and prevalence of abnormal eegs and seizures. the rarity and diversity of these 12 diseases make it highly unlikely that they randomly occurred with autism. their presence in this epidemiologic survey is the most compelling evidence to date to support the hypothesis that different diseases producing different types of cns pathology can play an etiologic role in autism.
the effect of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to a change in heart rate. the ventricular effective refractory period was measured at a basic drive cycle length of 500 msec with basic drive train durations of two beats, eight beats, 20 beats and 3 minutes. the ventricular refractory periods were measured in the baseline state and after oral treatment with quinidine or mexiletine in 20 subjects each. in the baseline state, there was progressive shortening of the ventricular refractory period as the drive train duration increased from two beats to 3 minutes. quinidine prolonged refractoriness by 5% (p less than 0.001) at each drive train duration. mexiletine did not affect the ventricular effective refractory period at any of the drive train durations. in a control group of 20 subjects, there were no significant differences between two determinations of refractoriness at each basic drive train duration. in conclusion, neither quinidine nor mexiletine affect the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate. although the ventricular effective refractory period measured with a conventional basic drive train duration of eight beats is often more than 20 msec longer than the actual ventricular effective refractory period measured with a drive train duration of 3 minutes, the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the conventionally measured ventricular effective refractory period accurately reflect the effects of these drugs on the actual ventricular effective refractory period.
long-term 6-mercaptopurine treatment in adolescents with crohn's disease although 6-mercaptopurine is often used to treat adolescents with intractable crohn's disease, its long-term efficacy has not yet been studied in this population. this study shows data derived from 36 adolescents (mean age +/- sd, 16.5 +/- 3.3 years; 27 males, 9 females) treated at least 6 months with 6-mercaptopurine (1.5 mg.kg-1.day-1, maximum of 75 mg/day). sites of crohn's disease at the start of 6-mercaptopurine therapy included 17 ileocolic, 9 pancolic, 7 small bowel, and 3 partial colon. all had received corticosteroids, sulfasalazine, antibiotics, and nutritional support for 5.0 +/- 3.0 years before administering 6-mercaptopurine, but intractable symptoms persisted. disease activity lessened during the first year of 6-mercaptopurine, reflected by a higher lloyd-still disease activity score (pre, 64 +/- 9 vs. 6-mercaptopurine, 72 +/- 11; p less than 0.0001). general activity, physical examination, nutrition, and laboratory subscores all improved (p less than 0.004). lessened disease activity occurred despite concomitant decrease in duration of prednisone use (pre, 9.5 +/- 4.2 vs. 6-mercaptopurine, 6.6 +/- 4.9 months/year; p less than 0.001) and cumulative annual prednisone exposure (pre, 3672 +/- 2106 vs. 6-mercaptopurine, 1964 +/- 1460 mg; p less than 0.0007). the frequency of perianal fistulae and abscesses also decreased (p less than 0.01) during treatment. annual rates of hospitalization decreased in 44% of subjects during 6-mercaptopurine treatment, while increasing in only 22%. follow-up beyond 1 year of 6-mercaptopurine treatment showed continued remission in 23 of 30 subjects. no serious complications were seen. 6-mercaptopurine is an effective long-term therapy for adolescents with intractable crohn's disease. while inducing remission, it also has a significant steroid-sparing effect which may be of particular benefit to this population.
increased susceptibility of human fetal astrocytes to human t-lymphotropic virus type i in culture. human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) has been considered as an agent responsible for tropical spastic paraparesis and htlv-i associated myelopathy. however, the pathogenesis of the diseases remains unclear. in a previous study we demonstrated that htlv-i could infect adult human astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in vitro, although the rates of infected cells were low, at a rate of 0.1% and 0.01-0.05% respectively. since mother-to-child transmission has been proposed as one of the major pathways for the prevalence of htlv-i endemic, in the present study we investigated the susceptibility of human fetal astrocytes to htlv-i in culture. after two days of co-culturing fetal brain cells with irradiated mt-2 cells (an htlv-i-producing t-cell line), immunofluorescence staining revealed many positive astrocytes for htlv-i p19 antigen. multinucleated giant cells doubly immunoreactive to glial fibrillary acidic protein and htlv-i antigen were frequently observed and showed a characteristic feature of hairy or fluffy external appearance. the percentage of infected astrocytes became as high as 19.4% at day 21 of co-culture and then decreased. electron microscopic examination revealed type c virus-like particles in astrocytes. these results indicate that human fetal astrocytes are more susceptible to htlv-i infection than adult human astrocytes in tissue culture.
prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis after acute abdominal operation. two hundred and forty-five patients who underwent acute extensive abdominal operations were randomized into three regimens to achieve optimal prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolic complications. all of the patients were screened by the 125i-fibrinogen uptake test for seven days and if the phlebographic findings were positive. of 81 patients receiving low dose heparin, 12 had thromboembolism. of 79 receiving a combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings, two had thromboembolism, and of 85 receiving a combination of dextran and graded compression stockings, 13 had this complication. this difference is significant in favor of the second treatment (p = 0.013). it is concluded that the combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings is an effective way to prevent thromboembolism after acute abdominal operations.
hashimoto's encephalopathy: a steroid-responsive disorder associated with high anti-thyroid antibody titers--report of 5 cases. we describe 5 patients with a relapsing encephalopathy in association with hashimoto's disease and high titers of anti-thyroid antibodies. the presentation is usually with a subacute onset of confusion, alteration in conscious level, and focal or generalized seizures. the relapsing course, association with myoclonus or tremulousness, and episodes of stroke-like deterioration are characteristic features. the long-term prognosis is favorable with steroid therapy, though additional immunosuppressive therapy may be required. neurologic investigation typically shows a diffusely abnormal eeg, high csf protein level without pleocytosis, and normal brain ct and cerebral angiogram. isotope brain scan may show patchy abnormal uptake. hashimoto's encephalopathy should be recognized as a definite neurologic entity and added to the list of cns complications of thyroid disease.
regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression by hepatitis b virus in hepatocellular carcinoma. in this study we investigated the regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression to explain a role for this growth factor in concert with hepatitis b virus involvement in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis. sections of normal liver and tumor and non-tumor-bearing liver disease tissue were hybridized in situ with [35s]-labeled insulin-like growth factor ii oligonucleotide probe. parallel sections were tested for presence of insulin-like growth factor ii polypeptide using immunohistochemistry. to investigate a possible role for hepatitis b virus in insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma, results were analyzed against patient seropositivity for hepatitis b virus. levels of insulin-like growth factor ii transcripts in normal liver (n = 4) sections and in those from non-tumor-bearing individuals (n = 10) were so low that specific signal was not detectable above homogeneous tissue background. in contrast, 4 of 8 (50%) of the sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhosis or noncirrhotic chronic liver disease with hepatitis b virus involvement showed increased expression of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts. up-regulation was observed in cell foci in the hepatocellular regions of the surrounding cirrhotic lobular cells and the fibrous septa. numerous cell foci were observed in patch distribution in the tumor areas. the level of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts in sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhotic and noncirrhotic tissues obtained from patients seronegative for hepatitis b virus was similar to that of normal liver.
adenocarcinoma of the urachus associated with elevated levels of ca 125. adenocarcinoma of the urachus is a rare genitourinary tumor with a poor prognosis. the treatment of choice is en bloc surgical resection, although combination therapy with surgery and chemotherapy has been used with mixed results. we describe a 69-year-old woman with adenocarcinoma of the urachus and elevated serum levels of ca 125 tumor marker. she was treated with resection plus 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin and mitomycin, alternating with platinum-based chemotherapy. the serum ca 125 level decreased precipitously after the operation and became normal after 2 months of chemotherapy. the patient remained free of disease 1 year postoperatively. serum ca 125 may be a useful tumor marker for urachal carcinoma and adjuvant chemotherapy may be effective in treating the disease.
the appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. a case report and review of the literature. the piriformis syndrome (ps) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis. computed tomography (ct) and magnetic resonance (mr) imaging revealed ps in a 27-year-old woman. this case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by ct and mr imaging.
role for specific complement phenotypes and deficiencies in the clinical expression of iga nephropathy. iga nephropathy, the most commonly occurring type of chronic glomerulonephritis in individuals of european and asian descent, exhibits marked heterogeneity of clinical signs and ultimate prognosis. based upon their studies of regional clustering of the ancestors of related patients in eastern kentucky, the authors have postulated the existence of an inherited disease susceptibility for iga nephropathy. they examined serum concentrations of individual complement proteins and phenotypes for c3, c4a, c4b, and factor b (bf) for related and unrelated patients with iga nephropathy from kentucky and for patients from the mid-south region of tennessee, mississippi, and alabama. in these populations, they have described partial complement deficiencies or specific phenotypes which may be associated with the disease. their findings include the following: (1) partial deficiencies for c2, beta 1h (h), properdin (p), or c4 binding protein (c4bp) in four patients with end-stage renal disease, (2) an association between the c3*f allele with iga nephropathy in the combined group of unrelated patients from kentucky and the mid-south, (3) the occurrence of c4b deficiency in two siblings with iga nephropathy, and (4) an association between c4a deficiency and poor outcome in patients with iga nephropathy diagnosed as adults. in addition, the related patients differ from the unrelated patients from kentucky with respect to frequencies of bf*f and the bff (ff + fs + f1f + f1s) phenotype, suggestive of immunogenetic difference between these groups. important functional differences exist between c4a and c4b isotypes and functional differences are also possible based upon c3 or bf phenotype.
ocular rosacea. a histologic and immunopathologic study. acne rosacea is an idiopathic dermatologic disease that frequently produces conjunctival inflammation. the authors studied the histology and immunopathology of epibulbar conjunctival biopsy specimens from eight patients with ocular rosacea and compared the findings with those from conjunctiva from 13 normal individuals. the conjunctival epithelium in ocular rosacea was attenuated and infiltrated by inflammatory cells, mainly t-helper/inducer (cd4) cells, phagocytic cells, and antigen-presenting (cd14, mac-1) cells. the difference between the normal control group and the rosacea group in the number of mononuclear cells forming these populations was statistically significant (p less than 0.01). the substantia propria of the rosacea specimens contained large subepithelial infiltrates of chronic inflammatory cells, and in some cases frank granuloma formation was evident. there was an overall mean increase of nearly all cell types, but especially of t-helper cells in the rosacea specimens compared with the controls. interestingly, t-helper/inducer (cd4) cells, which were outnumbered by the t-suppressor (cd8) cells in the normal conjunctival epithelium (cd4/cd8 = 0.85), outnumbered the cd8-positive cells in the rosacea specimens (cd4/cd8 = 1.6). there also was a 3.5-fold increase of the cd4/cd8 ratio in the rosacea conjunctival stroma compared with the normal specimens. the mechanism involved in rosacea conjunctival inflammation resembles a type iv hypersensitivity reaction.
syndromes of transient amnesia: towards a classification. a study of 153 cases. of 153 patients presenting with acute transient amnesia, 114 fulfilled the proposed strict diagnostic criteria for transient global amnesia (tga). the prognosis of this group was excellent with the exception of a small subgroup (7%), largely identifiable because of atypically brief or recurrent attacks, who developed epilepsy of temporal lobe type on follow up. computerised tomography (ct) scans performed on 95 patients were normal, evidence for covert alcoholism was lacking and there was a familial incidence of approximately 2%. by contrast, the group of 39 patients who did not meet the criteria for tga had a significantly worse prognosis with a high incidence of major vascular events. the groups could not be distinguished on the basis of behavioural characteristics during the attack. the following classification was proposed: 1) pure tga--attacks fulfilling the strict criteria, and of more than one hour in duration which do not require detailed investigation, 2) probable epileptic amnesia--attacks of less than an hour or rapidly recurrent, 3) probable transient ischaemic amnesia, a minority of cases with additional focal neurological deficits during the attack.
carcinoma of the ductus choledochus. a retrospective review of patients treated for carcinoma of the common bile duct has demonstrated improvement in diagnostic capabilities, leading to earlier management by resectional therapy. the ability to resect these tumors is directly translatable to improved long-term survival. efforts to obtain proof of malignancy prior to resection are often frustrated by the inability to obtain adequate representative tissue for frozen section. choledochoscopic biopsies and incisional biopsies have given the highest yield of positive diagnoses. in experienced hands, a program of fewer preoperative tests with emphasis on early operation, diagnosis, and definitive treatment may be more cost-effective in the management of patients with common bile duct cancer.
levels of mrna for a putative kainate receptor are affected by seizures. in situ hybridization and rna blot-hybridization techniques were used (i) to examine the regional distribution of mrna for a putative kainate receptor in adult rat brain and ii) to test the possibility that seizures affect expression of the receptor gene. the highest densities of hybridization were distributed within hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells, medial habenula, purkinje cells and the molecular layer of cerebellum, and olfactory bulb. recurrent limbic seizures caused a massive, delayed, and reversible reduction in levels of the kainate receptor mrna in dentate gyrus; lesser decreases were found in pyramidal cell fields of hippocampus and superficial cortex. these findings provide evidence that unusual patterns of physiological activity can alter genomic expression for a subclass of glutamate receptors in brain.
hemorrhage in mice produces alterations in pulmonary b cell repertoires. nosocomial pneumonia occurs frequently after hemorrhage and trauma and contributes to the increased incidence of morbidity and mortality after severe injury. the production of secretory antibodies by mucosally associated b cells is an important component of pulmonary host defense mechanisms. to determine the effects of hemorrhage on pulmonary b cell function, we examined hemorrhage induced alterations in pulmonary b cell repertoires. there were no changes in the relative distribution of t or b cells among intraparenchymal pulmonary lymphocytes after blood loss. hemorrhage induced decreases of between 5- and 10-fold in the frequencies and numbers of pulmonary b cell clonal precursors specific for the bacterial ag levan and pseudomonas aeruginosa polysaccharide. these decreases in numbers and frequencies of bacterial ag-specific pulmonary b cell clonal precursors were present between 3 and 10 days after blood loss. similar decreases in numbers and frequencies were found among pulmonary clonal precursors specific for the autoantigen mouse transferrin, but not for the autoantigen dsdna or the external antigens ova and keyhole limpet hemocyanin. these results demonstrate that hemorrhage produces marked alterations in pulmonary b cell repertoires, which may contribute to postinjury abnormalities in host defenses.
clomiphene citrate stimulation as an adjunct in locating ovarian tissue in ovarian remnant syndrome. ovarian remnant syndrome results from residual ovarian tissue after bilateral oophorectomy. the syndrome is associated with chronic pelvic pain and is suspected when premenopausal levels of fsh and lh are present in a patient with documented bilateral oophorectomy. histologic demonstration of ovarian tissue at operation confirms the diagnosis. we treated a patient with ovarian remnant syndrome with a 10-day course of clomiphene citrate, 100 mg daily, to stimulate the residual ovarian tissue and facilitate localization. preoperative ultrasound revealed a 5.0 x 3.5 x 6.2-cm cystic mass in the right adnexal region. exploratory laparotomy easily localized the mass, and it was removed intact. histologic slides demonstrated normal ovarian tissue with multiple follicles in various stages of development and a corpus luteum cyst. clomiphene citrate is capable of stimulating an ovarian remnant, producing an enlarged, cystic structure easily localized by ultrasound. the increased size and preoperative knowledge of the location facilitated surgical removal.
ultrasonic morphology of the uterus and ovaries after treatment of invasive mole and gestational choriocarcinoma. ultrasound imaging of the uterus and ovaries was performed on 41 patients after completion of apparently successful cytotoxic chemotherapy for invasive mole and choriocarcinoma. uterine volume was calculated and the echopattern of the uterus and ovaries assessed. forty-nine per cent of subjects had an abnormal uterine appearance and 20% had ovarian theca-lutein cysts. two patients relapsed on follow-up but no predictive ultrasonic features could be established on uterine or ovarian morphology after chemotherapy.
an autosomal recessive gene that delays expression of lupus in bxsb mice. we report the generation and serologic, cellular, histologic, and genetic characteristics of a bxsb/mpjscr substrain, termed bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll, that has lost early-life male lupus disease. classic genetic analysis suggested that delayed disease expression results from the action of a single autosomal recessive gene. this putative gene, referred to as ll (long-lived), causes a significant delay in expression of autoimmune serology (total serum igg and anti-nuclear antibodies levels), monocytosis, and of immune complex-mediated histopathologic changes such as glomerulonephritis, arteritis, and myocardial infarction. presumably as a consequence of the delayed immunopathology male bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll mice live three to four times longer than regular bxsb/mpjscr. this strain might be useful for analysis of single genes responsible for severe autoimmune disease expression.
distribution of bony metastases in prostatic carcinoma. fifty-five prostate cancer and 55 breast cancer patients with positive bone scintigrams were studied. the pattern of spread in the axial skeleton and pelvis showed differences between the 2 groups. this difference was not related primarily to bone volume at the site of metastasis. the difference in distribution of bony metastases between breast and prostate is explained by our knowledge of batson's vertebral venous plexus.
definitive localization of x-linked kallman syndrome (hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia) to xp22.3: close linkage to the hypervariable repeat sequence cri-s232 [published erratum appears in am j hum genet 1990 nov;47(5):883] kallmann syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous disease characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia. six families in which the disorder followed an x-linked inheritance were investigated by linkage analysis. diagnostic criteria were uniformly applied and included tests for hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia. close linkage was found by using the hypervariable repeated sequence cri-s232 (dxs278) previously mapped to xp22.3. at a maximum lod score of 6.5, the recombination fraction was calculated as .03. of 30 fully informative meioses, one recombination between the disease locus and the loci recognized by probe cri-s232 was observed. when an independent approach is used, these results confirm the x-linked kallmann syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping, and allow definitive localization of the syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping, and allow definitive localization of the syndrome to the xp22.3 region. this opens the way to carrier detection and to the identification of a gene responsible for this disorder.
two cases of spontaneous internal carotid artery occlusion due to giant intracranial carotid artery aneurysm. although spontaneous thrombosis of a giant intracranial aneurysm is relatively common, occlusion of its parent artery is rare. we describe two recent patients in whom the parent artery spontaneously occluded. one patient had severe stenosis of the left internal carotid artery, with delayed appearance of a faint shadow of vascular widening near the posterior clinoid process. one month later, complete occlusion of the left internal carotid artery was shown angiographically. the second patient had dysarthria and left hemiparesis, resulting in the diagnosis of a left internal carotid artery giant aneurysm. he had suffered an episode of visual disturbance of the right eye 5 years before. angiography showed the right cervical internal carotid artery to be occluded. we believe the mechanism of parent artery occlusion in our two patients to be due first to stretching of the internal carotid artery by the enlarged aneurysm, followed by compression of the internal carotid artery by the aneurysm itself. next, the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve are involved, and, finally, thrombosis of the aneurysmal cavity extends into the internal carotid artery itself.
intravascular ultrasound imaging of an acute dissecting aortic aneurysm: a case report. a case of acute dissecting aortic aneurysm is described in which intravascular ultrasonography was used at the time of aortography to produce real-time, 360 degree cross-sectional images of the aorta. the transmural vessel morphology visualized by this new catheter-based technology allowed confirmation of the diagnosis and identification of distal extension to the aortic bifurcation. the case demonstrates the unique potential of this modality in diagnosis and possible therapy in vascular diseases.
stiffman syndrome: a rare paraneoplastic disorder? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome, associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus, is reported. pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders. this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic.
study on the genesis of the double potential recorded in the high right atrium in atrial flutter and its role in the reentry circuit of atrial flutter. to investigate the genesis of the double potential (dp), which is two separate waves, and its role in the reentry circuit of atrial flutter (af), we performed overdrive pacing (odp) from the high right atrium (hra) in six cases of spontaneous af in which the dp was recorded in the hra. in four of the six cases, when the dp was arbitrarily designated d1 and d2, d1 and d2 showed progressive fusion during odp. in addition, the d1 return cycle, immediately after the termination of odp, corresponded to the af cycle, and the d2 return cycle corresponded to the pacing cycle. this may indicate that the dp is caused by the collision of two directional waves. furthermore, it is suggested that the hra plays an important role in preventing a possible shortcutting of reentry waves and in stabilizing the reentry circuit of af.
pleuritis as a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis. purpose: the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency with which tuberculous pleuritis is a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis and to compare the clinical manifestations of reactivation tuberculous pleuritis with "classic" tuberculous pleuritis, in which chest roentgenograms reveal no parenchymal infiltrates. patients and methods: we evaluated the medical records of 59 patients in whom tuberculous pleuritis was confirmed by histologic findings or mycobacterial culture. twenty-seven patients (46%) had typical chest roentgenographic findings of reactivation tuberculosis, whereas 32 (54%) had classic tuberculous pleuritis. the clinical and laboratory features of these two groups were compared. results: symptoms were more prolonged and pleural fluid glucose and lactate dehydrogenase concentrations were more markedly abnormal in patients with reactivation pleuritis than in those with classic pleuritis, suggesting a more chronic inflammatory process in the former group. compared with patients with classic tuberculous pleuritis, those with reactivation pleuritis had a lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests (61% versus 88%) and granulomatous pleural inflammation (25% versus 72%), but a higher bacillary burden, manifest by a higher frequency of positive sputum smears for acid-fast bacilli (50% versus 0%) and positive mycobacterial cultures from sputum (60% versus 23%) and pleural fluid (91% versus 66%). conclusions: in contrast to previous reports, tuberculous pleuritis was a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis in 46% (27 of 59) of patients. tuberculous pleuritis is a more chronic process in patients with reactivation disease than in those with classic pleuritis. the lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests and granuloma formation, combined with the higher bacillary burden in patients with reactivation pleuritis, suggest that these patients mount a less effective immune response to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection than do patients with the classic form of tuberculous pleuritis.
cerebral vein thrombosis shown by mri. a 46 year old man with a short history of left facial pain and numbness, and subsequently headaches, had a normal physical examination and a normal ct scan of head. lumbar puncture yielded normal csf under increased pressure. mri showed thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus, subsequently confirmed by angiography. mri is a sensitive test for detecting intracranial venous thrombosis, and may be the investigation of choice when this disorder is suspected.
short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in 'contaminated' lower gastrointestinal surgery. in a prospective, open, randomized controlled trial, 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially "contaminated" lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime (2 gm) with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm). eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin. the groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis, procedure, type of anastomosis, and wound closure. the incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug (11.5 percent) was equivalent in the two groups. there was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group (22.2 percent) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group (25.7 percent). the incidence of wound infection (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 6.9 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 10 percent) and deep sepsis (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 15.3 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 15.7 percent) was similar.
intracarotid hydroxyethyl methacrylate solution causing stroke in dogs. hydroxyethyl methacrylate (hema) has been advocated as a polymerizing solution with which to prevent deflation of detachable balloons in interventional neuroradiology. it is pertinent to know if unpolymerized hema would have untoward effects if accidentally released into the carotid artery by balloon rupture or deflation. seven mongrel dogs underwent transfemoral catheterization of the common carotid artery and subsequent injection of hema solution in volumes of 1 cc in five dogs, 2 cc in one, and 4 cc in one. angiography performed at the time of injection revealed evidence of intravascular thrombosis as well as possible spasm. three surviving animals were sacrificed at 48 hours; the brains were fixed and examined histopathologically. one brain was normal and one was autolyzed and could not be examined. five of the seven animals had histopathologically documented cerebral infarctions of varying size. no foreign substance was seen within the blood vessels to suggest intravascular polymerization. the animals injected with 2 or 4 cc hema solution did not survive 48 hours. literature review reveals little documentation of the toxicology of intravascular hema. with its increasing popularity as a compound for polymerization in detachable balloons introduced into the brain, further investigations are warranted to understand the physical properties of the compound and potential risks of its use.
regional ischemia in cerebral venous hypertension due to embolic occlusion of the superior sagittal sinus in the rat. to determine the pathophysiological changes in brain tissue that characterize damage following cerebral venous hypertension, a model of cerebral venous hypertension in the rat was devised. this experimental model has the advantage of simultaneously measuring the regional changes in cerebral blood flow as well as the metabolism. the ischemic area demonstrated by the accumulation of nadh is confined to the cerebral cortex and becomes enlarged in proportion to the increase in venous pressure. this metabolic disturbance appears even in the very early period following cerebral venous hypertension. these pathophysiological features are different from those observed in the case of intracranial hypertension.
chronic relapsing experimental allergic neuritis induced by repeated transfer of p2-protein reactive t cell lines. chronic relapsing experimental allergic neuritis (crean) was induced by repeated transfers of p2-protein reactive t lymphocyte lines. clinically, each intravenous transfer of p2-reactive t cells induced a relapse of the disease with weight loss and flaccid paresis of the hindlimbs followed by recovery. after multiple transfers, recovery from disease was incomplete, leading to increasing neurological deficit during the remissions. the pathology of the lesions during exacerbations was characterized by massive inflammation in the peripheral nervous system, associated with extensive endoneurial oedema, nerve fibre destruction and wallerian degeneration. selective primary demyelination and remyelination was found in the minority of affected nerve fibres. no onion bulbs were present in chronic lesions. in the central nervous system partial degeneration of the posterior columns reflected the extent of wallerian degeneration in the peripheral nerves and spinal roots. in addition, during stages of active disease some t lymphocytes and upregulation of ia antigen expression were found in the spinal cord.
echocardiographic measurement of left ventricular mass and volume in normotensive and hypertensive rats. necropsy validation. although rats are commonly used to study left ventricular (lv) hypertrophy, measurement of lv mass and dimensions has required killing the rat. to determine the accuracy of echocardiography in rats, blinded crossectional area (csa) and lv mass measurements using either the cube function (lvm) or an elliptical model (lvmel) from high resolution m-mode echocardiograms were compared to necropsy lv weight (0.28 to 1.5 g), in 41 normotensive (body weight 116 to 762 g) and 17 hypertensive rats (350 to 560 g). postmortem chamber volumes in 28 normal rats (0.02 to 0.19 ml) were also compared to echocardiographic volumes derived from the elliptical model. correlation with lv weight was r = 0.87 for lvm, 0.90 for csa and 0.93 for lvmel (all p less than .00001). comparison of hypertensive and body-weight-matched normotensive rats revealed the upper normal limit for both lvmel and csa to have 89% sensitivity and 100% specificity for detection of post mortem lv hypertrophy. necropsy lv volumes were more closely related to systolic echocardiographic volumes than to diastolic volumes (r = 0.78 v 0.71, both p less than .00001), compatible with the effects of post mortem contracture. stroke volume determined invasively in 5 wistar rats by thermodilution was similar to that obtained using elliptical model echo volumes in 5 rats of the same body size (0.35 +/- 0.05 v 0.30 +/- 0.06 ml/beat). echocardiography can be used to evaluate lv structure and function in rats and to detect in vivo lv anatomic differences induced by hypertension.
serial doppler echocardiographic follow-up of left ventricular diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis. a spectrum of left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities noted on doppler echocardiography has been demonstrated in patients with cardiac amyloidosis. to determine how these filling abnormalities evolve over time and the significance of any change, serial pulsed wave doppler studies of left ventricular inflow were performed over 12.6 +/- 4.9 months in 41 consecutive patients (36 men and 15 women, mean age 59 +/- 11 years) with typical two-dimensional echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement. the measurements were peak left ventricular inflow in early diastole (e) and atrial contraction (a) velocities, e/a ratio, deceleration time and isovolumetric relaxation time. patients were classified by mean left ventricular wall thickness into an early group (less than 15 mm) of 24 patients and an advanced group (greater than or equal to 15 mm) of 17 patients. the total group showed an increased e/a ratio (1.7 +/- 0.9 versus 1.4 +/- 0.9, p = 0.009) and decreased deceleration time (164 +/- 57 versus 174 +/- 51 ms, p = 0.11) at follow-up compared with baseline study. the early group showed significant changes in the e/a ratio (1.6 +/- 1.0 versus 1.2 +/- 0.7, p = 0.001) between the two studies. seven patients (29%) in the early group showed a change from an abnormal relaxation or "normal" pattern to one of restriction, coincident with increased symptoms in six of these patients. fifteen (88%) of the 17 patients in the advanced group did not show significant changes in the measures during the follow-up study, but these patients already showed a restrictive pattern.
optimal escort for interhospital transport of pediatric emergencies. the charts of 130 seriously ill or injured children transported to tertiary level intensive care were examined to determine the incidence of secondary insults incurred, as a function of escort training. of all insults incurred, approximately 8% occurred with specialized pediatric transport escorts who were accompanied by a tertiary care physician (group iii, n = 52); 20% with specialized pediatric transport escorts alone (group ii, n = 44); and 72% with escorts who had not received specialized pediatric transport training (group i, n = 34). based on our results, we recommend that all transport coordinators review the qualifications and experience of their transport team members and all potential escorts to assess their ability to provide optimal care for the children they transport, particularly during long journeys, transfer by air, and when serious illness or injury is involved.
effects of physostigmine on spatial attention in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. we tested patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and control subjects on a task of visuopatial attention. targets preceded by cues on the same side were termed validly cued; and those on the opposite side, invalidly cued. for all subjects, validly cued targets were responded to faster than those that were invalidly cued. the difference between reaction times for invalidly and validly cued targets, which is hypothesized to measure attentional movement, was significantly increased for the patients. the performance of the controls on certain neuropsychological tests was correlated with their attentional ability. these correlations were altered by progressive supranuclear palsy. physostigmine treatment of the patients induced a speeding of responses to invalidly cued targets as a function of the duration of the disease. these studies show defects in cognition and attention in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and demonstrate that physostigmine reduces some of the abnormal visual attentional performance.
diagnosis of noninfective cardiac mass lesions by two-dimensional echocardiography. comparison of the transthoracic and transesophageal approaches. this study was conducted in 46 patients with cardiac thrombi, 15 patients with atrial myxomas, and 32 patients with other cardiac or paracardiac tumors. diagnoses were subsequently proven by surgery, autopsy, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or angiography in all patients. all patients underwent precordial and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography to assess the various mass detection rates. atrial myxomas and predominantly left-sided cardiac tumors were identified by both echocardiographic techniques with comparable detection rates. left ventricular apical thrombi were detected more frequently by precordial echocardiography. in contrast, transesophageal echocardiography was superior in visualizing left atrial appendage thrombi, small and flat thrombi in the left atrial cavity, thrombi and tumors in the superior vena cava, and masses attached to the right heart and the descending thoracic aorta. these data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a clinically relevant improvement of the diagnostic potential in patients in whom cardiac masses are suspected or have to be excluded in order to ensure the safety of clinical procedures.
treatment strategies in shock: use of oxygen transport measurements. shock has traditionally been categorized according to its cause. shock can result from hemorrhage, primary cardiac failure, central nervous system failure, trauma, or sepsis. therapeutic principles have been developed for each etiologic type. end points for such therapy have included optimization of pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, cardiac output, blood pressure, and urine output. recent investigators agree that the common denominator in each of the shock syndromes is a reduction in the amount of oxygen consumed by the cell. the logical therapeutic approach would be to increase oxygen delivery to support the increased metabolic demand of the cells. the end point of resuscitation should be optimization of oxygen delivery and oxygen consumption. these variables are easily calculated by using data obtained from pulmonary artery catheter and laboratory measurements. the physician or nurse caring for critical ill patients should have a thorough understanding of the rationale for the use of oxygen transport calculations and the methods of manipulating oxygen delivery. a simple explanation of these principles including the importance of hemoglobin, cardiac index, and percent saturation of hemoglobin and suggested treatment strategies are presented.
remitting seronegative symmetrical synovitis with pitting oedema in young adults: a subset of rheumatoid arthritis or a distinct syndrome? three young adult patients with seronegative symmetrical polysynovitis affecting the peripheral joints with pitting oedema of both dorsum of hands and feet are described. all of these patients had a benign course and resolved completely within 10-15 months of the onset. none developed any deformities or erosions and/or relapse of arthritis after prolonged follow-up.
proliferating trichilemmal tumor: report of a case and review of the literature. the authors report a case of proliferating trichilemmal tumor and review the related literature. although considered biologically benign, malignant proliferating trichilemmal tumor have been reported. the authors emphasize the importance of recognizing that the tumors can occur in individuals in their 20s and 30s, and that the tumors should be excised with a margin of normal tissue. routine follow-up is recommended.
amelioration of cholinergic-induced pancreatitis with a selective cholecystokinin receptor antagonist. acute edematous pancreatitis follows excessive cholinergic stimulation in patients exposed to anticholinesterase-containing insecticides. we describe the role of cholecystokinin and the benefits of cholecystokinin receptor blockade in this form of pancreatitis. a cholinergic mimetic (carbachol) was administered to rats weighing 300 to 350 g and produced a form of edematous pancreatitis that mimics that seen in humans. animals received carbachol intraperitoneally, either alone (250 micrograms/kg of body weight) or with cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist devazepide (3 mg/kg of body weight) and were killed 4 hours later. carbachol administration resulted in a 19% increase in pancreatic weight, a fourfold increase in serum amylase levels, and a 14-fold increase in serum lipase levels. plasma cholecystokinin levels, however, were not altered. devazepide administered prior to cholinergic hyperstimulation blocked pancreatic weight increase and reduced elevations in serum amylase levels twofold and lipase levels fourfold. although cholecystokinin levels are not elevated in this model of pancreatitis, blockade of even low, background concentrations of this regulatory peptide is beneficial.
influence of right bundle branch block on short- and long-term survival after acute anterior myocardial infarction the impact of right bundle branch block on long-term prognosis after anterior wall myocardial infarction is unclear. in 932 patients with q wave anterior infarction, the short- and long-term prognostic significance of the presence of right bundle branch block was analyzed. compared with 754 patients without block, 178 patients with right bundle branch block after myocardial infarction showed an increased incidence of left ventricular failure (72% versus 52%, p less than 0.001) and increased in-hospital (32% versus 8%, p less than 0.001) and 1 year after hospital discharge (17% versus 7%, p less than 0.001) cardiac mortality rates. the presence of right bundle branch block was an independent predictor of increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality when entered in a multivariate analysis. however, the absence of left ventricular failure identified a subgroup of patients with right bundle branch block with low in-hospital (4%) and 1 year postdischarge (5%) cardiac mortality rates comparable with those of patients with neither failure nor right bundle branch block (1.7% and 4.8%, respectively). in the presence of left ventricular failure, patients with associated right bundle branch block had higher in-hospital (43% versus 14%, p less than 0.01) and 1 year postdischarge (24% versus 9%, p less than 0.01) cardiac mortality rates than those of patients with failure but no right bundle branch block. thus, the presence of right bundle branch block after anterior myocardial infarction is an independent marker of poor prognosis.
percutaneous cholangioscopic or transpapillary insertion of self-expanding biliary metal stents. fifty-two self-expanding metal stents were implanted in 39 patients with malignant (35 patients) or benign (4 patients) biliary stenoses. the stents were inserted and properly released by means of a 7 or 9 french gauge delivery catheter via the percutaneous (20 patients) or transpapillary (19 patients) route. in all cases the endoprostheses expanded to a diameter of 7 to 10 mm and achieved complete biliary tract drainage. jaundice disappeared in 36 of the 39 patients. no early complication was observed. after a median follow-up of 121 days (range, 30 to 422 days), 19 of 36 patients are still alive and 17 died of non-procedure-related causes. biliary re-obstruction occurred in five patients due to tumor overgrowth above or below the prosthesis (four patients) or bile encrustation (one patient). in patients with malignant stenoses, the probability of stent patency is 78% after 200 days. we conclude that large-bore metal stents are safe, effective, and provide better long-term patency than conventional endoprostheses.
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients. seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations; 34 (48.6%) aspirated. patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes, abnormal cough, abnormal gag, and dysphonia. however, patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough, an abnormal gag reflex, or both. the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information (ie, presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs).
variable expression of parkinson's disease: a base-line analysis of the datatop cohort. the parkinson study group. the datatop database, which includes clinical information on 800 patients with early untreated parkinson's disease (pd), is well suited to explore clinical heterogeneity in pd. patients with early-onset pd (less than or equal to 40 years, n = 33) reached the same level of disability as the late-onset pd (greater than or equal to 70 years, n = 85) group at a significantly slower rate (2.9 vs. 1.7 years). early-onset pd patients functioned cognitively better than late-onset pd patients. bradykinesia, and postural instability and gait difficulty (pigd), were more common at onset in patients with a rapid rate of disease progression ("malignant pd"; duration of symptoms less than 1 year and hoehn/yahr stage of 2.5, n = 11) as compared with those with a relatively slow rate of progression ("benign pd"; duration of symptoms greater than 4 years, n = 65). comparisons of tremor-dominant pd (mean tremor score/mean pigd score less than or equal to 1.5, n = 441) with the pigd-dominant type (mean tremor score/mean pigd score greater than or equal to 1.0, n = 233) provided support for the existence of clinical subtypes. the pigd group reported significantly greater subjective intellectual, motor, and occupational impairment than the tremor group. stage ii patients had higher depression scores than stage i patients. among the patients participating in the datatop, older age at onset with bradykinesia, or with the pigd form of pd, is associated with more functional disability than when the symptoms are dominated by tremor or begin at a younger age.
circulating epstein-barr virus-carrying b cells in acute malaria. epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection and plasmodium falciparum malaria are two known cofactors in the aetiology of endemic burkitt's lymphoma. to assess the relation between these factors, limiting dilution analysis was used to assess the number of ebv-carrying b cells in the circulation of gambian children during and after acute malaria. numbers of virus-carrying cells were five times higher in acute malaria patients and in uk patients with infectious mononucleosis than in convalescent malaria patients and in healthy control adults from the uk. spontaneous outgrowth in limiting dilution cultures from acute malaria samples was inhibited by acyclovir, a viral dna polymerase inhibitor. the mechanism of outgrowth, therefore, was virus release from the in-vivo infected cell, which led to infection and immortalisation of co-cultured normal b cells. the findings provide evidence that acute malaria is associated with an increase in the number of ebv-carrying b cells in the circulation. because of this increase, there is a greater chance of a cytogenetic abnormality occurring in such a cell, with consequent evolution of burkitt's lymphoma.
chromosome studies in 104 patients with polycythemia vera. chromosome studies were done in 104 patients with various stages of polycythemia vera (pv): 10 had leukemia-myelodysplastic syndrome, 28 had post-pv with myeloid metaplasia (ppvmm), 12 had pv with myelofibrosis, and 54 had pv. chromosome studies were successful in 86 patients, 37 (43%) of whom had a chromosome abnormality. at diagnosis, 4 of 28 patients (14%) had an abnormal clone; the incidence was 78% in ppvmm and 100% in leukemia-myelodysplastic syndrome. among the 63 patients with successful chromosome studies during the first 10 years of disease, 27% had an abnormal clone. in contrast, of the 23 patients who had the disease for more than 10 years, 87% had an abnormal clone. chromosome abnormalities were found in 11 of the 60 patients who either were untreated or underwent only phlebotomy and in 26 of the 44 patients who were treated with myelosuppressive agents. trisomy 8, +9, and 20q- were found in some patients early during the course of their disease and also among untreated patients. these chromosome abnormalities seem to be related to the natural course of pv rather than to therapy. patients with a chromosomally abnormal clone at the time of diagnosis of pv had a poorer survival than did those with only normal metaphases. cytogenetic results did not predict evolution of the disease, but they did provide clues to hematologic phenotype, duration of the disease, and consequences of myelosuppressive therapy.
gastric epithelium in the duodenum: its association with helicobacter pylori and inflammation. duodenal biopsy specimens from 471 adults and 47 children were examined to determine the prevalence and distribution of gastric epithelium in the duodenal bulb in relation to age, gender, gastroduodenal inflammation, smoking, alcohol and consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaid). gastric metaplasia was present in the anterior wall duodenal biopsy specimen in 31%, was significantly less common in patients under 17 than in adults, and was more common in males than females. in sixty two adults who underwent multiple radial duodenal biopsy gastric metaplasia was randomly distributed around the duodenal circumference; sixty three per cent of the patients with gastric metaplasia found on multiple biopsy were detected by just the anterior biopsy. gastric metaplasia was not obviously associated with alcohol, cigarette, or nsaid consumption. while the presence of gastric metaplasia was associated with adulthood, male sex, and low fasting gastric juice ph, its extent was associated with active duodenitis and helicobacter-associated gastritis. on logistic regression, gastric metaplasia in the duodenum and gastric helicobacter pylori were independent predictors of active duodenitis, but were not significantly associated with inactive duodenal inflammation. h pylori was observed in duodenal biopsy specimens from 32 patients, all with active duodenitis; bacteria were present only on foci of gastric metaplasia, and were more likely to be seen when the metaplasia was extensive. it is proposed that inflammatory injury to the duodenal mucosa by h pylori may stimulate the development of further gastric metaplasia, and that the area of duodenum susceptible to colonisation with h pylori may therefore increase progressively until mucosal integrity is compromised and ulceration supervenes.
treatment of traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta. a 15-year experience. traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta is increasing in incidence and remains a highly lethal injury. the morbidity associated with this injury also remains high. we retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients admitted to our emergency department with ruptured thoracic aortas during a 15-year period to determine the reason for this persistently high morbidity and mortality and to identify any factors that might improve the outcome. we found that patients who are in unstable condition on arrival in the emergency department or who become unstable before reaching the operating room are not likely to survive. patients who are injured in automobile accidents have a greater chance of survival than do those injured in motorcycle accidents or car-pedestrian accidents. patients who are in hemodynamically stable condition after aortic injury survive only if diagnosis and treatment are prompt. major complications of repair following thoracic aortic injury relate primarily to the length of cross-clamp time, and every effort should be devoted to keeping the cross-clamp time less than 30 minutes.
determinants of the ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation. determinants of the ventricular cycle length during atrial fibrillation were examined in 52 patients. thirty-three patients had structural heart disease and none had an accessory atrioventricular (av) connection. the av node effective and functional refractory periods, the shortest atrial pacing cycle length associated with 1:1 conduction, the av node conduction time and indexes of concealed conduction in the av node were measured in the baseline state (36 patients) and after modification of sympathetic tone by infusion of isoproterenol or propranolol (8 patients each). atrial fibrillation was then induced with rapid atrial pacing, and the mean, shortest and longest ventricular cycle lengths were measured. variables that correlated most strongly with the mean rr interval during atrial fibrillation were the av node effective refractory period (r = 0.93; p less than 0.001), av node functional refractory period (r = 0.87; p less than 0.001) and shortest atrial pacing cycle length associated with 1:1 conduction (r = 0.91; p less than 0.001). the ah interval during sinus rhythm (r = 0.74; p less than 0.001) and during atrial pacing at the shortest cycle length with 1:1 conduction (r = 0.52; p less than 0.001) had weaker correlations. measures of concealed conduction did not improve the prediction of the mean or longest ventricular cycle length during atrial fibrillation. in conclusion, the refractory periods and conductivity of the av node are the best indicators of the potential of the node to transmit atrial impulses to the ventricles during atrial fibrillation. the degree of concealed conduction in the av node is a less important determinant of the mean ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation.
improved flow cytometric determination of proliferative activity (s-phase fraction) from paraffin-embedded tissue. recent studies suggest that proliferative activity (s-phase fraction [spf]) may have greater prognostic significance than total nuclear dna content; however, relatively few studies have examined spf from paraffin-embedded tissue because of significant contamination of histograms with debris. in this study, cell cycle analysis was performed on 124 matched tissue specimens. fresh tissue was divided into two equal portions; one portion was frozen, whereas the other portion was processed and embedded in paraffin. s-phase could be determined for both frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue in 81 cases. correlation between spf from frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue was demonstrated (r = 0.80) when debris was subtracted from histograms with the use of two new subtraction algorithms referred to as multicut and singlecut. unlike other debris-subtraction algorithms, the quantity and distribution of debris calculated by these algorithms are dependent on the magnitude and position of histogram peaks. a lesser degree of correlation was demonstrated with the use of a standard exponential debris subtraction algorithm (r = 0.67). correlation of spf for aneuploid cases was greater when spf was calculated as a percentage of the aneuploid cell population rather than as a percentage of the entire cell population. this was attributed to the observation that the proportion of aneuploid cells from paraffin-embedded tissue was less than that from frozen tissue. the results of this study indicate that spf can be calculated from paraffin-embedded tissue with values comparable to those obtained from frozen tissue. the ability to calculate spf reliably from paraffin-embedded tissue should allow additional evaluation of this parameter as a prognostic indicator.
low dose amitriptyline in chronic pain: the gain is modest. in the double-blind placebo-controlled study presented here, the effects were investigated of a low dose of amitriptyline (75 mg) in patients with chronic pain of various origins. the active drug was superior to placebo in reducing pain intensity. the reduction was small. in the second treatment week, the amitriptyline treated patients slept longer. no differences between active drug and placebo were found with respect to daily activities or use of analgesics. based on our data and those of other studies, it is concluded that amitriptyline (and other antidepressants) in low doses does have a positive effect on the intensity and some other aspects of chronic pain, but that the effect is modest. it must be kept in mind that chronic pain is a very treatment-resistant condition. therefore, even modest positive effects may be worthwhile.
intracranial pressure in african children with cerebral malaria opening lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (csf) pressure was measured with a paediatric spinal fluid manometer in 26 of 61 kenyan children (mean age 39 months) with cerebral malaria. in all cases pressure was above normal (mean [sd]22.6 [7.4] cm csf, range 10.5-36). clinical features of our patients suggest that intracranial hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria in children, especially as a cause of death. we suggest that raised intracranial pressure is secondary to increased cerebral blood volume. lowering intracranial pressure may significantly reduce the mortality and morbidity of cerebral malaria. the potential risks and benefits of lumbar puncture should be considered carefully in patients with suspected cerebral malaria.
mycobacterium paratuberculosis and crohn's disease. the possible aetiological role of mycobacterium paratuberculosis in crohn's disease was investigated. the immunological response was studied using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa), western blotting, and immunocytochemistry. the antibody response to two protoplasmic antigen preparations of m paratuberculosis in the sera of patients with inflammatory bowel disease was measured by elisa. igg and igm antibodies to these antigens were measured in serum samples from 52 patients with crohn's disease, 15 patients with ulcerative colitis, and 41 control patients without inflammatory bowel disease. although there was wide variation in the concentrations of antibody detected, patients with crohn's disease had concentrations that were not significantly different from those of the other two groups. in addition, mycobacterial antigens were separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the immune response to each antigen was then examined separately and assayed for igg and igm in 10 patients from each of the three groups. an indirect peroxidase test was also used to detect m paratuberculosis in sections of tissue from 18 patients with crohn's disease and 10 with ulcerative colitis. the results were negative in all cases. this study does not support a role for m paratuberculosis in crohn's disease.
interferon activation of latent natural killer cells and alteration in kinetics of target cell lysis: clinical implications for oral precancerous lesions. reduced natural killer cell activity was observed in patients with oral leukoplakia and submucous fibrosis compared with normal control subjects. however, the number of target binding lymphocytes was found to be normal in these precancers. treatment of effector cells with interferon-alpha resulted in highly elevated active killer cell activity, although no change was observed in target binding lymphocyte counts. this finding could imply that precytotoxic cells that are activated by interferon exist in peripheral blood or that direct recruitment of a new cell population takes place. in addition, altered target lysis kinetics was observed, with interferon-activated killer cells demonstrating a tremendous lytic activation that is completed so quickly that a statistical kinetic analysis could not be accurately done. because natural killer cell activity is an important effector system in immunosurveillance against tumors, its modulation with interferon may be an exciting clinical possibility in the control of malignant transformation or oral precancers.
glomerular binding and contractile response to angiotensin ii in rats with chronic experimental cirrhosis of the liver. 1. the effects of angiotensin ii on glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were studied in surgically instrumented conscious control and cirrhotic rats. in addition, angiotensin ii binding and the contractile response to angiotensin ii were studied in glomeruli isolated from cirrhotic and control rats. 2. cirrhotic rats had a higher glomerular filtration rate and a higher renal plasma flow than control animals. a non-pressor dose of angiotensin ii induced small but significant decreases in glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow in both control and cirrhotic rats, the effect on renal plasma flow being the most pronounced. 3. plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations were similar in control and cirrhotic rats. 4. the cross-sectional area of glomeruli from cirrhotic rats was 42% greater than that of glomeruli from control animals. angiotensin ii (10(-9) mol/l) decreased the cross-sectional area of glomeruli from control animals by 6.4 +/- 0.9% and of glomeruli from cirrhotic rats by 6.6 +/- 0.8% (p = not significant for comparison between control and cirrhotic animals). 5. there were no differences between control and cirrhotic rats in the affinity of angiotensin ii for its glomerular receptors. however, the angiotensin ii receptor density was higher in cirrhotic than in control rats, thereby producing an increased total angiotensin ii binding in cirrhotic rats. 6. since no functional differences between control and cirrhotic animals were present in the response to angiotensin ii, even though angiotensin ii binding was increased, a post-receptor blockade of the angiotensin ii signal could be present in cirrhotic rats.
atrioventricular plane displacement in severe congestive heart failure following dilated cardiomyopathy or myocardial infarction. echocardiographic recording of the atrioventricular (av) plane displacement during the cardiac cycle was used to assess left ventricular (lv) global function in patients with congestive heart failure (chf). the study population consisted of 70 patients with chronic chf (nyha functional groups iii and iv) following dilated cardiomyopathy (dcm) or myocardial infarction (mi), and 35 age-matched healthy subjects. the av plane displacement was recorded from the apical 4- and 2-chamber views at four lv sites located about 90 degrees apart and representing the septal, anterior, lateral and posterior parts of the lv wall. a mean value was calculated from the above sites (av-mean). patients with chf showed a significant generalized reduction of av plane displacement compared to healthy subjects (5.6 mm vs. 14.5 mm, p less than 0.001). thirty chf patients also underwent radionuclide angiography in order to determine the ejection fraction (ef). the correlation between av-mean and ef was good (r = 0.82, p less than 0.001). the selection of an av-mean of less than 7 mm to define a severely depressed lv function (ef less than 30%) gave a sensitivity of 92% and a specificity of 67%. it is concluded that the av plane displacement can be used to estimate lv systolic function in patients with chf.
emergency adenotonsillectomy for acute postoperative upper airway obstruction peri-operative acute upper airway obstruction may be life-threatening. a case is reported of a child with severe adenotonsillar hypertrophy who developed acute upper airway obstruction after a routine surgical procedure and required emergency adenotonsillectomy. the importance of pre-operative assessment is stressed.
abdominal wall reconstruction (the "mutton chop" flap). reconstruction of full-thickness abdominal wall defects can be a difficult surgical challenge. reconstructing the epigastrium may be especially vexing. the use of prosthetic mesh has significant drawbacks, and the use of pedicled myofascial and myocutaneous flaps should be advantageous. we present 15 consecutive cases demonstrating highly successful reconstructions of massive abdominal wall defects using myofascial and myocutaneous flaps without prosthetic mesh. the extended rectus femoris flap, or "mutton chop" flap, which is capable of resurfacing the epigastrium, is described. complications were minimal, and use of myofascial units, particularly the rectus femoris, should be considered as the technique of choice for reconstruction of major abdominal wall deficits.
corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy. leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity. in this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined, and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected. twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls. various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2% of leprosy patients. lagophthalmos, chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis, iris atrophy, and social blindness were found 4.5-16.6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity.
urodynamic morbidity and dysuria prophylaxis. a group of 324 patients received prophylactic treatment with either sodium bicarbonate, potassium citrate or a glucose placebo following urodynamic studies. urine was screened for infection both before and after testing and the incidence of dysuria assessed by postal questionnaire; 63% of patients experienced some degree of dysuria and this was severe and prolonged in 6.3%, the majority of whom were male. neither sodium bicarbonate nor potassium citrate was any more effective in preventing dysuria than placebo. the presence of severe prolonged dysuria was not associated with a urinary tract infection or with any particular urodynamic diagnosis.
stridor: intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis. during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit, nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy. when tracheally extubated, each child was found to have stridor. the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years. two patients had unilateral paralysis, but neither required tracheostomy. seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis. of these, six patients required tracheostomy. surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients. the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure. four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months. both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later. cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull. early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated, especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension.
isolation and characterization of normal and neoplastic colonic epithelial cell populations. the aim of the present study was to characterize rat mucosal colonic cells harvested from the crypt continuum during differentiation and dimethylhydrazine-induced neoplasia. the collection of colonocytes was performed using a modified nonenzymatic isolation procedure based on ca2+ chelation and gentle mechanical dissociation. light and electron microscopy histomorphological examinations, [3h]thymidine incorporation studies, and activity gradients of alkaline phosphatase, thymidine kinase, and cytoskeleton-associated protein tyrosine kinase indicated that distinct cell populations were harvested from the various crypt regions in a temporal sequence mirroring their zonal and functional distribution in situ. after dimethylhydrazine administration, marked protein tyrosine kinase activity was noted in colonic cells harvested from upper crypt zones. the misplaced and sustained kinase activity preceded the actual polyp or tumor formation. this observation is consistent with the expansion of colonic proliferative compartments beyond allowable boundaries during the preneoplastic period. companion studies in human colonic epithelial specimens corroborate the findings observed in normal and transformed murine colonocytes. it is believed that the characterization and manipulation of colonocytes using our in vitro model will provide important clues to the molecular events underlying the differentiation program and carcinogenic process in the colonic cell.
imaging techniques in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the colon. the variability in the published results for colonoscopy and barium enema examinations is confusing. with both, optimum results are dependent on meticulous preparation, technical excellence, and operator proficiency. it is a mistake to place colonoscopy and the barium enema in competitive positions; the two methods ideally complement one another in the evaluation of high risk individuals, including those with positive hemoccult tests. the exclusion of significant pathology by the double-contrast enema can be relied on and is less costly to the patient. detection of abnormalities by a barium enema should, when necessary, be followed by colonoscopic verification and/or biopsy. when used in this sequence, the procedures provide a cost-effective approach to the early detection and control of cancer; it is estimated that observance of the acs guidelines can reduce mortality rates by 30%.
coracoclavicular screw fixation for unstable fractures of the distal clavicle. a report of five cases. five consecutive unstable fractures of the distal third of the clavicle were treated by indirect open reduction and internal fixation using a temporary bosworth-type screw. coracoclavicular fixation provided and maintained reduction of the fracture. healing occurred uneventfully within nine weeks in all cases. the screw was removed under local anaesthesia after healing of the fracture and there were no surgical complications. shoulder function was restored to the pre-injury level. temporary coracoclavicular screw fixation appears to be a valuable alternative for the treatment of type ii fractures of the distal third of the clavicle.
endothelial leucocyte adhesion molecule-1 (elam-1) expression in cutaneous inflammation. endothelial leucocyte adhesion molecule-1 (elam-1) is a recently described endothelial surface glycoprotein which is inducible by interleukin 1 (il-1), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) or bacterial lipopolysaccharide (lps). using an immunohistochemical technique and a monoclonal antibody (1.2b6) specific for elam-1 we have found marked vascular endothelial expression of elam-1 in many cutaneous inflammatory disorders, including allergic contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis and psoriasis, and in dermal infiltrates associated with benign, premalignant and malignant keratinocyte proliferation. in normal skin, minimal levels of elam-1 expression were detected. in psoriasis, double-immunoenzyme staining studies revealed a close spatial relationship between elam-1 expression and neutrophil margination, suggesting a functional link. recombinant human interferon-gamma (30 micrograms) injected intradermally in normal adult human volunteers did not substantially upregulate elam-1 in contrast to its marked effect on intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1) expression, indicating that this cytokine is probably not involved in elam-1 induction in vivo. these results indicate that elam-1 is widely induced in cutaneous inflammation with a time course of expression that is longer than that observed in vitro. as elam-1 acts as an adhesion ligand for neutrophils, and perhaps monocytes, the expression of this molecule in cutaneous lesions is likely to be an indication of the ability of vascular endothelium to recruit these cells from the circulation. furthermore, the cytokine inducibility of elam-1 is indirect evidence for functional interactions between perivascular mononuclear cells, other resident cells and the blood vessel wall.
acute respiratory failure. pregnancy entails many unique physiologic changes that make the management of ards both challenging and unique. most of these women are young and in excellent health before their acute injury, and their survival should exceed that of the general population who develop ards. we advocate aggressive management of the suspected lung injury including early intubation and the institution of invasive hemodynamic monitoring. this approach ensures the most thorough assessment of the extent of the initial injury and allows rapid assessment of therapeutic maneuvers and their subsequent adjustment. our goal is to reverse the initial insult early while avoiding further iatrogenic injury. optimal management of the maternal-fetal pair requires the cooperation of an obstetrician well versed in cardiopulmonary physiology and physicians skilled in intensive care medicine.
williams' vulvovaginoplasty after supralevator total pelvic exenteration. seven patients had delayed williams' vulvovaginoplasty after supralevator total pelvic exenteration. of the three patients who died of carcinoma of the cervix (at 2, 5, and 15 months after vulvovaginoplasty), the first died before having a chance to attempt intercourse, but the other two had reported intercourse on at least two occasions after the reconstruction. one of the patients described the experiences as neither pleasant nor unpleasant but stated that her husband seemed satisfied. the other patient described the experience as satisfactory to both herself and her husband. the remaining four patients are alive with no evidence of recurrent disease at 28, 42, 56, and 106 months after operation. two of these patients have reported entirely satisfactory sexual relations approximating pre-exenteration frequency, but the remaining two have not had sexual relations since surgery. both give the main reason for this as lack of opportunity. the williams' vulvovaginoplasty appears to be a reasonable alternative for vaginal reconstruction in patients who will have and especially who have had exenteration. to improve results, other methods of vaginal reconstruction should continue to be evaluated.
lung function and pulmonary regurgitation limit exercise capacity in postoperative tetralogy of fallot. fifty-five patients with repair of tetralogy of fallot were evaluated with treadmill exercise, pulmonary function testing and rest two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography to determine the relation among cardiopulmonary function, exercise capacity and ventricular arrhythmias. the mean age at repair was 8.1 +/- 2.1 years; age at the time of study ranged from 15 to 37 years (mean follow-up time after repair 18 +/- 5 years). exercise duration was 92 +/- 17% of predicted. maximal heart rate was 94 +/- 7% of predicted. no exercise test was stopped because of an arrhythmia. thirty patients had oxygen consumption and ventilation measured during their final minute of exercise. peak oxygen consumption was 31 +/- 8 ml/kg per min (86 +/- 18% of predicted). twenty-five patients (45%) had low vital capacity at rest (less than 80% of predicted). pulmonary regurgitation was identified in 42 (75%) of the patients and judged to be moderate in 10 (18%). mild tricuspid valve regurgitation was identified in 64%. doppler estimated right ventricular outflow gradient was greater than 15 mm hg in 15% of the patients (mean gradient 24 mm hg [range 16 to 56]). age at repair, duration of follow-up and type of repair did not correlate with echocardiographic variables, ventilatory data, exercise performance or arrhythmias. moderate pulmonary regurgitation was associated with increased right ventricular diastolic area and both were inversely related to exercise duration and vital capacity. decreased breathing reserve during maximal exercise was associated with moderate pulmonary regurgitation and decreased vital capacity. the results indicate that exercise capacity in these patients is in general good; however, right ventricular volume loading and ventilatory dysfunction may produce exercise limitation.
concurrence of malignant hyperthermia and congenital abnormalities. two children about to undergo corrective surgery were required to be investigated for malignant hyperthermia (mh). these investigations arose out of concern by the anesthetist who had obtained a history of unexplained pyrexial reactions to anaesthetic in other members of the family. because over the years we have encountered several children with multiple congenital abnormalities who have been found to be susceptible to mh, we stressed the advisability of biopsying not only the patient but also the patient's parents. positive responses for mh were obtained in the patients and in one of the parents on each occasion. the hypothesis of intrauterine mh with its pharmacogenetic propensity for heat production is considered as a possible etiological factor which may cause abnormalities of a congenital nature.
skin ultrasound in dermatologic surgical planning. high-resolution ultrasonography was performed on 55 patients with palpable skin lesions, all submitted to surgical excision and to histologic diagnosis. in all the cases, the ultrasound picture was confirmed by the surgical appearance of the lesions. the sonographic structure was characteristic in the case of cysts and angiomas, lymphangiomas in particular. ultrasonography is considered a simple and reliable technique for the pre-operative evaluation of skin nodules, as it gives a clear picture of their size, depth, and outline. however, sonography cannot substitute for the clinical dermatologic approach and the need for an histologic diagnosis.
thigh muscle function after partial tear of the medial ligament compartment of the knee. the purpose of the study was to assess the isokinetic and isometric strength and power profile of the knees of 48 patients who had a previous second-degree sprain (partial tear) of the medial ligament compartment, the most common knee ligament injury in sports. the cybex ii isokinetic dynamometer was used in the measurements. on an average of 8 yr after the injury, the mean strength deficit of the injured knees was minimal: 4 +/- 5% (range 0-28%) in extension and 2 +/- 4% (0-20%) in flexion. the average strength score (max. 100 points) was 90 +/- 11 (56-100), representing an excellent classification. in hamstrings, the relative strength deficit increased significantly with a higher speed of isokinetic movement (p less than 0.05). compared with the strength parameters (peak torques), the other functional parameters of the injured knees (total work, average power, and peak torque acceleration energy) showed some but not significantly greater deficits (hamstrings 9-11%, quadriceps 6-8%). in conclusion, the general thigh muscle function in knees with old second-degree sprain of the medial ligament compartment appears good and acceptable, but the strength deficits are systematically greater in higher speeds of isokinetic movement. therefore, rehabilitation utilizing high speed extension and flexion exercises is recommended.
strategy for lymphadenectomy in lung cancer three centimeters or less in diameter we have surgically treated 221 patients with a primary lung cancer 3.0 cm or less in diameter. there were 8 patients with a tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter (group a), 84 with a tumor 1.1 to 2.0 cm in diameter (group b), and 129 with a tumor 2.1 to 3.0 cm in diameter (group c). the incidence of n0, n1, and n2 disease was 100%, 0%, and 0%, respectively, for patients in group a; 83%, 5%, and 12% in group b; and 62%, 12%, and 25% in group c (n0 versus n2, p less than 0.01). for the 63 patients with regional lymph node involvement, "skipping" metastasis was present in 28.6%. the 5-year survival rate was 80% for group a, 74% for group b, and 51% for group c (group b versus group c, p less than 0.01). of the 121 patients who underwent complete resection and were followed up for 5 years, 41% had recurrence, 8% with local recurrence and 33% with distant metastasis. therefore, it is important to do as complete a resection as possible together with mediastinal lymphadenectomy. efforts to detect systemic spread should be made at the time of preoperative evaluation, even when the lung tumor is small.
chronic anal fissure. a new method of treatment by anoplasty. chronic anal fissure is a common condition usually treated by maximal anal dilatation or lateral subcutaneous sphincterotomy. the following method is based on a common surgical principal; to widen a stenosed tube a longitudinal incision is made across the stenosed area and this is sutured transversely as in pyloroplasty. this method of anoplasty is simple and appears to have no resultant complications. further studies are necessary before its value can be established compared to the presently accepted methods of treatment.
humor, aggression, and aging. humor response to aggressive cartoons was investigated by using ratings of pain and funniness of cartoons by 154 young and elderly men and women. no significant age differences were found; however, sex differences were found. for both young and elderly females, an inverted-u described the relationship between pain and funniness ratings. for young and elderly males, there was no relationship between pain and funniness. this is a preliminary step in exploring age differences in humor but may be relevant for those working with elderly persons.
multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions: an unusual association. many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association--with multiple myeloma. this case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis.
congenital hepatic fibrosis in autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. congenital hepatic fibrosis was found in four families with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. congenital hepatic fibrosis is commonly though to be characteristic for autosomal-recessive polycystic kidney disease, but the reported families, show that it can also complicate autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. in three families close linkage between the mutation causing the disease and dna markers on chromosome 16 was demonstrated. the clinical course of the congenital hepatic fibrosis differed considerably; in one family the children with congenital hepatic fibrosis died soon after birth, in the three other families an approximately 20 years follow-up showed no detectable progression of the liver disease.
dmpo and reperfusion injury: arrhythmia, heart function, electron spin resonance, and nuclear magnetic resonance studies in isolated working guinea pig hearts. with the use of isolated working guinea pig hearts with normothermic global ischemia, it was shown that 5,5-dimethyl-pirroline-n-oxide (dmpo), an organic spin trap agent designed specifically to form stable adducts with oxygen free radicals in electron spin resonance studies, can dramatically reduce the vulnerability of the heart to reperfusion-induced arrhythmias. studied in concentrations ranging from 10 to 500 mumol/l, dmpo exerted a dose-dependent protective effect. thus, after 30 minutes of global ischemia, the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (total) and tachycardia was reduced from control values of 100% and 100% to 100% and 100%, 91% and 100%, 25% (p less than 0.001) and 50% (p less than 0.05), and 25% (p less than 0.001) and 41% (p less than 0.05), respectively, with dmpo concentrations of 10, 30, 100, and 500 mumol/l. maximum signals of dmpo-oh adduct, with the use of electron spin resonance studies, were observed after 3 minutes of reperfusion in fibrillated hearts but were not detected in nonfibrillated hearts. results of nuclear magnetic resonance studies of myocardial adenosine triphosphate, creatine phosphate, ph, and inorganic phosphate showed that these parameters were not significantly changed by treatment with dmpo, and consequently myocardial heart function was not improved, although there was a dissociation between myocardial adenosine triphosphate content and left ventricular developed pressure during reperfusion. the data presented here indicate that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the development of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias but trapping these cytotoxic free radicals does not improve the recovery of postischemic heart function and high-energy phosphate contents in isolated working guinea pig hearts.
comparison of structure, mechanical properties, and functions of lumbar spinal ligaments. the organization of collagen in the supraspinous, interspinous, and longitudinal ligaments, as well as the ligamenta flava, in lumbar spines from human cadavers has been investigated by polarized light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and x-ray diffraction. these experiments were performed on ligaments in situ, with their bony attachments undisturbed, and on excised ligaments at a range of applied strains. results were related to the composition (investigated by standard histologic techniques) and gross structures (investigated by light microscopy) of the ligaments. more importantly, the results were related to the mechanical properties of the ligaments, which include stiffness, failure conditions, stress relaxation, and hysteresis. where necessary, results were supplemented by or compared with those obtained from pig ligaments. mechanical properties were related to postural changes by ligament strains induced in cadaveric specimens, using results from the literature. thus, ligament structures could be related to their physiologic functions.
effects of topical glaucoma drugs on fistulized rabbit conjunctiva. conjunctival fibroblastic proliferation with contracting scar formation has been implicated as a possible cause of glaucoma filtering surgery failure. the effects of glaucoma medications on bulbar conjunctiva were evaluated in both eyes of 20 pigmented rabbits, with 5 rabbits per group each receiving singular topically applied daily doses of either 0.5% timolol, 1% epinephrine, 4% pilocarpine, or artificial tears in a masked fashion for 4 months. posterior lip sclerectomies were performed in 16 rabbits--4 from each treatment group. the remaining four rabbits served as nonsurgical controls. four additional rabbits, which had not received eye drops, were included as a nonmedicated control group, with one rabbit serving as a nonsurgical control. immunostaining was performed to identify the presence of myofibroblasts in fistulized conjunctiva. treated surgical eyes, regardless of medication, had higher myofibroblastic cell proliferation than treated nonsurgical eyes. among fistulized eyes, all medications increased cell proliferation, with pilocarpine eliciting the most dramatic increase compared with all other groups.
quantitative echocardiographic analysis of global and regional left ventricular function: a problem revisited. we recorded two-dimensional echocardiograms simultaneously with the respiration measurements of 20 normal subjects and 20 patients with anterior myocardial infarction. the apical long-axis and four-chamber views were quantitatively analyzed. measurement variability of global ejection fraction and regional ejection fraction of 100 regions was calculated during inspiration and at end-expiration for two observers. to minimize variability, the endocardial contour was redefined and traced with an improved computer-assisted tracing system. variability (absolute mean difference) between two beats at end-expiration was significantly less than during inspiration (p less than 0.05): for ejection fraction the variability at end-expiration was 3.4% and the variability during inspiration was 6.4% (mean, 54%; sd, 7%); for regional ejection fraction the variability at end-expiration was 11.8% and the variability during inspiration was 21.5% (mean, 56%; sd, 15%). intraobserver and interobserver variability values of one beat at end-expiration for ejection fraction were 3.1% and 3.8%, respectively, and 9.5% and 12.8%, respectively, for regional ejection fraction. variability in patients with myocardial infarction was comparable. this method of recording respiration and analyzing left ventricular function at end-expiration, with a new contour definition and tracing system, provides a measurement variability that is considerably less than that reported in previous echocardiographic studies and that is comparable to angiographic methods.
utility of computed tomography for surveillance of small abdominal aortic aneurysms. preliminary report. to assess the ability of computed tomography to predict the potential for expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms, we analyzed the computed tomographic scans of 30 patients who had two or more abdominal computed tomographic scans at least 6 months apart between 1979 and 1989. clinical variables and 10 defined objective characteristics of computed tomography were evaluated. twenty-five men and five women with abdominal aortic aneurysms ranging from 30 to 64 mm (mean, 45 mm) were followed up with serial computed tomographic scans for a mean (+/- se) of 26 +/- 3 months. in 19 patients, enlargement of aneurysm diameter of 3 mm or more on serial computed tomographic scans was noted, whereas in 11, there was little or no expansion. of the clinical variables studied, only serum cholesterol correlated with an increased risk of expansion. thrombus area, measured by computed tomography, was 7.3 +/- 0.9 cm2 in enlarging aneurysms vs 4.3 +/- 0.9 cm2 in stable aneurysms. based on these preliminary data, we conclude that computed tomography may provide valuable information about the likelihood of future expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms.
a long-term study of doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension in general medical practice. this study assessed the long-term (54 weeks) antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension, defined as sitting and standing diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 114 mm hg. of the 153 patients who successfully completed an initial 14-week trial, 61 continued uninterrupted into a 40-week extension study. optimal antihypertensive efficacy was achieved by week 12 and maintained in all patients for the duration of 1 year. the final mean sitting blood pressure was 148/84 mm hg and was reduced from a mean baseline level of 173/102 mm hg. occasional decreases in heart rate were observed, but these were not considered to be clinically relevant (1 to 3 beats/min). the mean final dose of doxazosin for patients evaluable for efficacy was 2.4 mg/day; 91.7% of patients were taking less than or equal to 4 mg/day. no increase in daily maintenance dose was observed from the initial phase to the long-term extension study. after 1 year of treatment, 93.3% of patients were considered a therapeutic success (sitting diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 10 mm hg reduction from baseline or less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction). in no patients was there a worsening in the severity category of the hypertension. total serum cholesterol concentrations were reduced significantly (6.6% p = 0.03) at the end of week 14. reductions in total serum cholesterol levels persisted throughout the extension study, with a final reduction of 5.4%.
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. iv. surgical technique. the operative technique for the current surgical procedure of creating an electrical maze for the treatment of atrial fibrillation is described in a sequential fashion. the accompanying diagrams of the procedure are drawn from the view of the operating surgeon.
emergence of recreational drug abuse as a major risk factor for stroke in young adults objective: to investigate the clinical and epidemiologic relations between recreational drug abuse and stroke in young persons. design: a case-control study based on medical records. setting: san francisco general hospital, a 400-bed municipal hospital. patients: consecutive sample of 214 patients aged 15 to 44 years, admitted between 1979 and 1988 with a diagnosis of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. an equal number of control patients admitted with diagnoses of status asthmaticus, acute appendicitis, or acute cholecystitis were matched to stroke patients by age, sex, and year of hospitalization. measurements and main results: seventy-three patients with stroke (34%) were drug abusers compared with 18 (8%) of the controls. in 47 patients with stroke, temporal proximity of drug administration (n = 34) or infectious endocarditis (n = 13) suggested a direct association between drug abuse and stroke. after controlling for other identifiable stroke risk factors, the estimated relative risk for stroke among drug abusers compared with that among non-drug abusers was 6.5 (95% ci, 3.1 to 13.6), and this increased to 49.4 (ci, 6.4 to 379.0) for those patients whose symptoms began within 6 hours of drug administration. among patients less than 35 years of age, drug abuse was the most commonly identified potential predisposing condition (47%), and it was the only condition with a significantly elevated relative risk for stroke (11.7; ci, 3.2 to 42.5). further, a substantial rise in the proportion of drug-related strokes was observed in the last 3 years of the study (31% in 1986 to 1988, compared with 15% in 1979 to 1985, p = 0.008). cocaine, especially recently, was the drug used most frequently in drug-related strokes. conclusion: in an urban population such as ours, recreational drug abuse appears to be a prominent and growing risk factor for strokes in young adults.
pulmonary function and cardiovascular risk factor relationships in black and in white young men and women. the cardia study pulmonary function is known to be related inversely to incidence of coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive lung disease, lung cancer, and death from all causes. reasons for some of these associations are poorly understood. relationships between cardiovascular disease risk factors and pulmonary function were examined in 5,115 18- to 30-year-old black and white male and female participants in the study of coronary artery risk development in young adults (cardia). forced expiratory volume in 1 s adjusted for height (fev1/ht2) was significantly lower in smokers than nonsmokers and in persons who reported shortness of breath; fev1/ht2 was correlated positively with a history of strenuous physical activity, duration of exercise on the treadmill, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. it was associated negatively with skinfold thicknesses, serum triglycerides, fasting serum insulin, and the cook medley scale of hostility. the association between pulmonary function and heart disease risk may reflect associations with physical fitness, vigor, fatness, and lipid profiles, as well as with cigarette smoking.
a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection. we present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection. etiologic factors are discussed.
noncardiogenic pulmonary edema complicating massive diltiazem overdose. non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema has not been previously described in calcium channel blocker overdose. we describe a case of non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema occurring during the course of therapy for massive diltiazem overdose in a young patient with anorexia nervosa. review of the current literature suggests that major and minor pulmonary complications occur with some frequency in the setting of calcium channel blocker overdose although their exact incidence remains unclear.
acute renal failure associated with the use of intraperitoneal carboplatin: a report of two cases and review of the literature. carboplatin, a new analogue of cisplatin used in the treatment of ovarian carcinoma, has been demonstrated to be less nephrotoxic than its predecessor. to date, hundreds of cycles of therapy have been given without a significant incidence of renal failure. we report herein two cases of acute, nonoliguric renal failure in patients receiving intraperitoneal (ip) carboplatin as chemotherapy for advanced ovarian carcinoma. each patient had received extensive previous treatment with cisplatin. the baseline serum creatinine levels in the patients were 0.9 and 1.1 mg/dl, respectively. after four cycles of ip carboplatin in patient 1 and five cycles of ip carboplatin in patient 2, the serum creatinine levels abruptly rose to 9.0 and 9.5 mg/dl, respectively, within a week after administration of therapy. no other primary etiologies for acute renal failure could be identified in either patient. one patient required hemodialysis briefly. renal biopsy specimens were obtained from both patients. patient 1 had focal and moderate interstitial nephritis with mild periglomerular fibrosis. patient 2 had an edematous interstitium with a diffuse mononuclear cell infiltrate, focal interstitial hemorrhage, and toxic changes in proximal and distal tubules on electron microscopy. treatment with oral prednisone at 1 mg/kg/day with a rapid taper over 4 weeks was done in both cases with the serum creatinine levels eventually dropping to 4.6 and 2.0 mg/dl, respectively. acute interstitial nephritis and renal failure to this extent have not been previously reported with carboplatin therapy. the literature regarding carboplatin is reviewed with respect to the pathophysiology of its nephrotoxicity.
sustained increased cerebral blood flow with prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ("triple-h" therapy) after subarachnoid hemorrhage. delayed cerebral ischemia is the major cause of death and disability in patients who initially survive an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). in the present study, a protocol for prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ("triple-h" therapy) was utilized in the treatment of sah, and the response of cerebral blood flow (cbf) was evaluated. serial cbf measurements, f1 and cbf15, were performed using the xenon-133 inhalation technique to maximize therapy. surgery within 24 hours of subarachnoid hemorrhage was preferred. in 43 patients with sah, mean hemoglobin and hematocrit were lowered 3.0 +/- 0.3 g/dl and 8.9 +/- 0.5%, respectively, over the first 24 hours. mean f1 and mean cbf15 over the same period increased 34.2 +/- 5.8% and 21.2 +/- 3.6%, respectively. the maximum mean increase in cbf was 47.2 +/- 4.7% for f1 and 30.1 +/- 3.2% for cbf15. cerebral blood flow remained elevated during the 21 days after sah, irrespective of neurological grade on admission, age, sex, or angiographic arterial narrowing. this is the first report of a consistent method for establishing sustained improvement in cbf after sah. all patients managed in total compliance with the protocol remained neurologically stable or improved. two patients developed delayed ischemia and infarction because of the inability to sustain protocol requirements. thirty-six of the 43 patients (84%) were discharged capable of an independent lifestyle. triple-h therapy is a safe and effective modality for elevating and sustaining cbf after sah. in combination with early aneurysm surgery, it can minimize delayed cerebral ischemia and lead to an improved overall outcome.
mitral valve replacement in the first year of life. from 1973 through 1987 25 patients underwent mitral valve replacement in the first year of life for mitral stenosis and mitral regurgitation. the patients with mitral stenosis included two with mitral arcade, two with supravalvular mitral stenosis with hypoplastic mitral valve, and one with parachute mitral valve. included in the group of patients with mitral regurgitation were 12 with atrioventricular canal defect, six with chordal and leaflet defects, one with marfan's syndrome, and one with bacterial endocarditis. prostheses included 12 bjork-shiley (17 mm), seven st. jude medical (19 mm in four, 21 mm in three), five stent-mounted dura mater valves (12 mm to 16 mm), and one porcine xenograft (19 mm). in four patients the valves were placed in the left atrium in a supraannular location. there were nine operative (atrioventricular canal defect seven, mitral regurgitation two) and five late (atrioventricular canal defect four, mitral stenosis one) deaths, giving actuarial 1- and 5-year survival rates of 52% and 43%, respectively. all 6 patients with tissue valves died; the four with supraannular mitral valve replacement survived. since 1983 operative mortality has been reduced to 0% (70% confidence limits 0% to 24%). nine patients required a second mitral valve replacement for prosthetic stenosis 5 to 69 (mean 30) months after the original mitral valve replacement (one operative death). because of improvements in repair of atrioventricular canal defect in infancy, the need for mitral valve replacement at atrioventricular canal defect repair has decreased. although valvuloplasty has been advocated for repair of congenital mitral valve disease and is applicable in some infants with mitral regurgitation, mitral valve replacement is frequently unavoidable for congenital mitral disease and can now be accomplished at a low operative risk, even when the prosthesis has to be positioned supraannularly.
empyema thoracis: 14-year experience in a teaching center. one hundred two patients with empyema thoracis were managed at the royal melbourne hospital between 1976 and 1989. fifty-five cases of empyema thoracis were postpneumonic, 8 followed esophageal rupture, and 5 were associated with thoracic trauma. some form of systemic illness was a major contributing factor in the presentation of 29 patients. a single causal organism was found in 53 patients (the most common being staphylococcus aureus), multiple organisms in 36, and no growth in 13. during the years 1983 to 1989 there was an increased incidence of empyemas caused by multiple or antibiotic-resistant organisms. operative drainage was required in 90 patients and 12 were managed by thoracentesis or intercostal tube drainage alone. the in-hospital mortality rate for patients managed nonoperatively was 58% (7 of 12 patients); it was 16% (14 of 90 patients) for those receiving operative drainage. there were seven late deaths, four empyema related and three nonrelated. early adequate operative drainage is recommended for patients with empyema thoracis.
early outcome after placement of a metallic intracoronary stent: initial mayo clinic experience after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, 3 to 7% of patients have in-hospital coronary closure, and the risk of subsequent myocardial infarction is high, even with an urgent bypass operation. disrupted coronary morphologic integrity, particularly with large dissections, may be associated with an increased risk of acute coronary closure. a percutaneously placed coronary vascular stent may rapidly alleviate acute or threatened coronary closure and could reduce morbidity. between october 1989 and june 1990, placement of a balloon-expandable, flexible metallic coil (gianturco-roubin) coronary stent was attempted 16 times in 15 mayo clinic patients--for treatment of actual or threatened abrupt coronary closure in 10 patients, for primary treatment of a lesion judged to be at high risk for dissection with conventional balloon angioplasty in 1, and for elective treatment of restenotic lesions in 5. placement of the stent was successful in 15 attempts (94%). associated complications, which were uncommon, were similar to those noted after balloon angioplasty. no early deaths occurred, and no patient required coronary artery bypass grafting. stents were successfully placed in both urgent and elective circumstances in native coronary arteries and saphenous vein grafts, and they were used in primary atheromatous and restenotic lesions. our initial experience with this metallic coil stent indicates that it is efficacious for vascular disruption that is threatening or causing coronary closure after angioplasty. furthermore, elective placement of a stent may be safely undertaken in patients with high-risk coronary lesions or recurrent restenotic lesions. the long-term outcome in all groups of patients who receive coronary stents is unknown.
coronary angioplasty requiring extraordinarily high balloon inflation pressure. two cases are presented in which extraordinarily high balloon inflation pressures (20 and 17 atm) were required to successfully dilate a saphenous vein graft stenosis and a right coronary artery stenosis. the clinical application of high balloon inflation pressures and balloon selection is discussed.
improving palliation in pancreatic cancer: intraoperative celiac plexus block for pain relief. most patients with pancreatic carcinoma are not curable. surgical palliation of obstructive jaundice and gastric outlet obstruction leaves many patients with severe pain from pancreatic carcinoma. anesthesiologists have drawn increasing attention to the successful use of postoperative percutaneous celiac plexus block for the treatment of pancreatic pain. ironically, little attention has been paid to celiac plexus block during laparotomy. we reviewed the cases of 12 patients with pancreatic carcinoma and severe abdominal pain who were treated surgically. all patients had operative celiac plexus block with absolute alcohol at the time of exploratory laparotomy for biliary bypass, gastroenterostomy, or tumor biopsy. complete postoperative pain relief was obtained in 10 of the 12 patients; two had only partial relief. no operative complications were related to celiac plexus block; one patient died postoperatively of pneumonia. average postoperative hospital stay was 13 days and average postoperative survival was 3 1/2 months. most patients had excellent pain relief for at least 2 months or until death. because most patients treated surgically for pancreatic carcinoma are receiving only palliation with biliary bypass or gastroenterostomy, surgeons should pay increased attention to pain relief. operative celiac plexus block is easy, safe, and highly effective in relieving the agonizing pain of pancreatic carcinoma.
splenic rupture in a human immunodeficiency virus-infected patient with primary splenic lymphoma. splenic rupture presenting as primary malignant lymphoma of the spleen is a rare event. we report such an occurrence in a young man who had a primary b-cell immunoblastic lymphoma of the spleen and was found to be hiv-positive. we suggest that serologic tests for hiv should be performed in unusual cases of malignant lymphoma.
idiopathic biliary ductopenia in adults: a report of five cases. the clinical and pathological findings of five adult cases of idiopathic nonsyndromatic paucity of interlobular bile ducts are reported. patients were 18-32 years old at the onset of the disease; four presented with pruritus and/or jaundice and one with bleeding of the esophageal varices. two patients were siblings. serum alkaline phosphatase counts ranged from 1 to 16 times the upper normal value, and total bilirubin counts ranged from 0.6 to 8.8 mg/dl (10 to 150 mumol/l). initial liver biopsy showed portal and periportal fibrosis with cholangiolar proliferation and reduction in the number of interlobular bile ducts. antimitochondrial antibodies were absent, and bile ducts were normal after opacification. the patients were observed for 3-11 years. repeated liver biopsies in the five patients showed progression of the lesions, with development of biliary type cirrhosis in four. two of the four patients with cirrhosis died of hepatic failure 3 and 11 years after onset of the disease. in the two other cases, liver transplantation was performed successfully. these cases suggest that chronic cholestasis with marked ductopenia resembling the nonsyndromatic paucity described in infancy and childhood may reveal itself at an adult age. this disorder, possibly familial, may rapidly progress to severe and even fatal liver disease and could be a new indication for liver transplantation.
a double-blind comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension. two hundred sixty-six patients took part in a multicenter comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin. both drugs produced a significant reduction (p less than 0.001) in blood pressure and no increase in heart rate. blood pressure was considered "markedly decreased" or "decreased" in 70.8% of patients treated with doxazosin and 70.0% of patients treated with prazosin. no statistically significant between-group differences in antihypertensive efficacy were observed. both doxazosin and prazosin were well tolerated; seven patients (5.6%) in each group had the therapy withdrawn.
spinal nerve stimulation in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy. direct spinal nerve stimulation was compared with needle electromyography (emg) in 40 patients who were suspected of having an l5 or s1 radiculopathy. for spinal nerve stimulation, we adapted a monopolar needle electrode inserted deep into the paraspinal muscle. the minimal latency, amplitude, and negative phase area of compound muscle action potential from myotomal muscles were recorded with computer assistance. abnormality was considered to be significant when the value fell outside of 2 sd of control mean values. among 17 patients with clinical evidence of radiculopathy, needle emg was abnormal in 10 patients (58.8%), whereas in the nerve stimulation test the abnormalities were shown in 16 patients (94.1%); in amplitude difference and the abnormal area, differences were shown in 12 patients (70.6%). among 23 patients with only subjective symptoms of radiculopathy, needle emg was abnormal in nine patients (39.1%), whereas the abnormal amplitude differences were shown in 18 patients (78.3%) and 15 patients (65.2%) with abnormal area difference by spinal nerve stimulation, respectively. direct spinal nerve stimulation is recognized as an objective and sensitive test in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy.
neuropsychological performance in medicated and unmedicated patients with tourette's disorder. objective: to date, there have been no formal investigations of neuropsychological performance in patients with tourette's disorder who are taking psychotropic medications. the authors conducted this study to provide such information. method: they examined the neuropsychological performance of 96 patients 6-18 years old who met dsm-iii-r criteria for tourette's disorder; 51 of these patients were taking neuroleptic medications and 45 were not. the groups were well matched with regard to age, sex, education, and duration of symptoms. each group was given a complete neuropsychological test battery as well as instruments rating symptoms of tourette's disorder, obsessive-compulsive characteristics, and other behavioral disturbances. results: the patients taking medications did not differ from those not taking medications on any of the neuropsychological, intellectual, or educational measures. in addition, the groups did not differ with regard to level of tourette's disorder symptoms. conclusions: the results of this investigation suggest that patients with tourette's disorder who do not experience intolerable side effects from neuroleptic medications are able to perform on educational, intellectual, and neuropsychological tests at a level comparable to that of unmedicated patients. these results have positive implications for patients with tourette's disorder who respond to neuroleptic medications.
arginine vasopressin gene expression in chronic cardiac failure in rats. arginine vasopressin (avp) is known to be increased in patients and experimental animals with chronic cardiac failure (ccf). the importance of an increase in biosynthesis of avp in the hypothalamus has, however, not heretofore been investigated and is the purpose of the present study. ccf secondary to infarction of myocardial tissue was induced by ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery and sham operated animals served as controls. four weeks later hypothalamic avp mrna was determined by solution hybridization using sense and anti-sense strand rna. the blood pressure was lower in ccf than sham animals (131.2 +/- 3.1 vs. 112.8 +/- 4.0 mm hg, p less than 0.05) and the total heart, and right and left ventricle weights were significantly higher in ccf rats. plasma avp was higher in ccf (sham 6.78 +/- 0.30; ccf 11.46 +/- 0.64 pg/ml, p less than 0.001) and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide was also higher in ccf than sham animals (205 +/- 36 vs. 554 +/- 56 pg/ml, p less than 0.001). the avp mrna in hypothalamus was significantly higher in ccf than sham animals (55.5 +/- 3.7 vs. 95.9 +/- 4.0 pg/micrograms total rna, p less than 0.001). there was no difference in beta-actin mrna in the hypothalamus of sham and ccf rats, indicating that the avp-mrna increase was specific in ccf. these results therefore demonstrate that increased avp biosynthesis in the hypothalamus, in addition to release of the hormone from the posterior pituitary, may occur in ccf.
helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma. serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks. this investigation examined the correlation between helicobacter pylori (hp) infection, as reflected in immunoglobulin g serum antibodies, and the risk of gastric cancer. serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks. the highest prevalence of hp infection, 93%, was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk, the residents of pasto, colombia. in the lower risk colombian city of cali, a 63% overall prevalence rate was found. both children and adults were sampled in new orleans, louisiana, where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites. the prevalence of hp infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults, 70% versus 43%, p = 0.0001. a higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children, 49% versus 32%, p = 0.01; however, an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals, regardless of race, which serve different socioeconomic groups. a prevalence rate of 54% was found at charity hospital compared with 24% (p = 0.0001) at children's hospital. our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions, known to influence gastric cancer risk, are also important determinants of hp infection.
the effect of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a retrospective analysis of 108 patients. the effects of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) on vasospasm and hydrocephalus were analyzed retrospectively in 108 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) who were operated on for ruptured aneurysms within 48 hours of their onset. ninety-two of these patients underwent a procedure for csf drainage (cisternal drainage, ventricular drainage, lumbar drainage, or a combination of these). the duration, the total volume, and the average daily volume of csf drainage were 10.4 +/- 7.0 days (mean +/- sd). 2034 +/- 1566 ml, and 190 +/- 65.3 ml, respectively. patients with a greater drainage volume at a lower height of drainage in the early period after sah developed more cerebral infarctions later (p less than 0.025). the relationship between the total volume of csf removed and shunt-dependent hydrocephalus was determined to be statistically significant (p less than 0.005). cerebral infarction and hydrocephalus after sah were also found to be statistically associated (p less than 0.001). thus, continuous cerebrospinal fluid drainage should not be performed too readily in patients with sah, because the removal of a large amount of csf can induce cerebral vasospasm as well as hydrocephalus.
signs distinguishing spasmus nutans (with and without central nervous system lesions) from infantile nystagmus. clinical findings as well as eye and head movement recordings were analyzed from 23 patients with spasmus nutans without central nervous system (cns) changes, 10 patients with spasmus nutans-like disease (head nodding, intermittent nystagmus associated with intracranial anomalies or visual pathway disorders), and 25 patients with infantile nystagmus. ten diagnostic signs were established to differentiate between the patient groups. although they were helpful in separating patients with infantile nystagmus from those with spasmus nutans, no difference was found between the patients with spasmus nutans with and without cns lesions. this study indicates that eye and head movement recordings do not allow differentiation between benign spasmus nutans and spasmus nutans-like disease. the differentiation must be made on the basis of neuroimaging.
pulmonary-renal syndrome with "triad" involvement due to small vessel vasculitis. we describe the clinical course and morphologic findings of a 22-year-old woman presenting with a systemic disease that included nasal ulceration, hemoptysis and rapidly progressive renal failure. biopsies of nasal septum and lung revealed small vessel leukocytoclastic angiitis while renal biopsy showed a diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis. immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of clinical symptoms and resolution of glomerulonephritis as documented in a followup biopsy. although her clinical presentation with triad organ involvement strongly suggested wegener's granulomatosis, this case illustrates that other varieties of vasculitis may mimic wegener's granulomatosis.
proximal esophageal ph-metry in patients with 'reflux laryngitis'. fiberoptic laryngoscopic examinations were performed on 40 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, 25 of whom had persistent laryngeal symptoms (dysphonia, cough, globus sensation, frequent throat clearing, or sore throat) and 15 without laryngeal symptoms who served as disease controls. ten patients with laryngeal symptoms but none of the controls had laryngoscopic findings consistent with reflux laryngitis. dual-site ambulatory ph recordings were obtained with the ph electrodes spaced 15 cm apart and with the proximal sensor positioned just distal to the upper esophageal sphincter. patients in the three groups (disease controls: group 1; patients with symptoms but without laryngoscopic findings: group 2; and patients with both laryngeal symptoms and findings: group 3) were comparable in terms of age, smoking habit, the presence of esophagitis, and distal esophageal acid exposure. proximal esophageal acid exposure was, however, significantly increased in groups 2 and 3, and nocturnal proximal esophageal acidification occurred in over half of these patients but in none of the group 1 patients. we conclude that the subset of reflux patients who experience laryngeal symptoms show significantly more proximal esophageal acid exposure (especially nocturnally) and often have laryngoscopic findings of posterior laryngitis not observed in control reflux patients.
experimental cardiac tamponade: correlation of pressure, flow velocity, and echocardiographic changes. seven episodes of experimental cardiac tamponade were induced in five anesthetized closed-chest dogs. simultaneous pericardial and intracavitary pressures were synchronized with superior vena caval and transvalvular pulsed-doppler flow tracings. the earliest indication of tamponade was the development of a negative transmural right atrial pressure that occurred during early ventricular diastole and was associated with echocardiographic evidence of right atrial collapse. this was also associated with reversal of diastolic flow in the superior vena cava and with diminished early diastolic flow velocity across the tricuspid as well as the mitral valve. during more advanced cardiac tamponade, the transmural right atrial pressure became negative during both early and late ventricular diastole as well as during isovolumic ventricular systole. this was associated with a disappearance of early diastolic ventricular filling and right ventricular diastolic collapse as observed on two-dimensional echocardiography. in hypotensive cardiac tamponade (cardiac output diminished by 70%), the decreased transmural right atrial pressure that developed during ventricular systole was accompanied by diminished antegrade flow in the superior vena cava. in advanced and hypotensive tamponade, ventricular filling occurred mainly during atrial contraction.
reevaluation of the periodic acid-schiff stain in acute leukemia with immunophenotypic analyses. to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the periodic acid-schiff (pas) stain in the diagnosis of acute leukemia in light of the finer characterization of this disorder now available through immunophenotyping, we examined the blasts from 51 patients with newly diagnosed acute leukemia by morphological, cytochemical, and immunophenotypic analyses. the 51 patients represented every new case of acute leukemia subjected to cytochemical stains and flow cytometry between july 1987 and february 1989. by cell-surface marker analysis, 29 exhibited lymphocytic lineage, while 21 were myelocytic. one was mixed lineage. the pas positivity, defined by the presence of blocks or coarse granules in 5% or more of the blasts, was found in 15 of 29 lymphoblastic leukemias and in four of the myeloblastic leukemias. however, pas-positive lymphoblastic leukemias were negative with the other cytochemical stains: myeloperoxidase, sudan black b, and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase. the pas-positive myeloblastic leukemias were positive with at least one other stain. three cases of myeloblastic leukemia exhibited greater than 10% pas-positive blasts, with all three being acute monoblastic leukemia. thus, the sensitivity and specificity of the pas stain alone for lymphoblastic leukemia was 52% (15 true positives of 29) and 81% (four false positives), respectively. the sensitivity of a cytochemical-staining combination of pas positivity and myeloperoxidase, sudan black b, and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase negativity in defining cases of lymphoblastic leukemia remained at 52%; however, the specificity of this combination for lymphoblastic leukemia was 100% (no false positives). thus, a positive pas stain, in combination with negative myeloperoxidase, sudan black b, and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase stains, continues to have a diagnostic role in the distinction between lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemia, and greater immunologic sophistication serves to support this position.
pathogenesis and treatment of intra-abdominal infection. intra-abdominal infection is considered potentially life-threatening. such infection is frequently secondary to perforated viscera, trauma or inflammatory disease. simple abscesses may be drained percutaneously with roentgenologic guidance; complex abscesses often require open surgical drainage. secondary peritonitis is usually polymicrobial; broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy effective against aerobic and anaerobic gram-negative bacteria, as well as gram-positive organisms, is essential. newer antibiotics, administered either singly or in combination, have been used successfully to treat intra-abdominal infection while avoiding the toxicity of aminoglycosides.
normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy we hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin (avp) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children's degree of hypovolemia, even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality. a randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma avp concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours. plasma avp concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours. nineteen children, 2 months to 17 years of age, were studied; 13 had bacterial meningitis (12 with haemophilus influenzae type b). ten children (seven with bacterial meningitis) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements, and nine (six with bacterial meningitis) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance. children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium (mean = 6.3 meq/kg/24 hr) than children in the fluid-restricted group (mean = 2.0 meq/kg/24 hr). the two groups were comparable for plasma avp concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun. the plasma avp concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction (p = 0.005), and the change in avp concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given (p less than 0.02). this study supports the hypothesis that serum avp concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney. patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone.
magnetic resonance imaging in motor neuron disease. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the brain was evaluated in 20 patients with motor neuron disease (mnd) and in a control group of 11 healthy people. bilateral increased signal areas of various sizes in the centrum semiovale, corona radiata, internal capsule, pedunculi of midbrain, pons, medulla and even in the frontal lobe, topographically related with the corticospinal tract, were found in 8 out of 20 patients. three out of 4 patients with progressive bulbar paralysis and 5 out of 11 cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis had abnormal mri. such mri abnormalities have neither been found in patients with progressive muscular atrophy nor in controls, suggesting that they may be the hallmark of pyramidal tract degeneration in motor neuron disease.
effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination. the potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis. one hundred forty rats were divided into two groups. in the control group, gelatin capsules containing feces (10(7) bacteria per milliliter) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen; in the second experimental group, a solution of cryoprecipitate, thrombin, and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination. fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations (0.01, 0.1, and 0.15 ml) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group. heavy peritoneal contamination (0.25, 0.3, and 0.5 ml) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups, with 80% of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours. however, in the moderately contaminated rats (0.2 ml of fecal inoculate), fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80% to 10%. in all survivors in the fibrin-treated group, intraperitoneal abscesses developed. with intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10(6) organisms, early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late, localized, nonlethal abscess formation. aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery.
association of p60c-src with polyoma virus middle-t antigen abrogating mitosis-specific activation. polyoma middle-t antigen is required for tumorigenesis in animals and for viral transformation of a variety of cells in culture (reviewed in ref. 1). middle-t associates with and thereby activates p60c-src, a cellular tyrosine kinase homologous to the oncogene product of rous sarcoma virus. activation of p60c-src by middle-t is accompanied both by dephosphorylation of tyrosine 527, a site which negatively regulates src kinase src kinase activity (reviewed in refs 4-6) and by autophosphorylation on tyrosine 416 (refs 7-10). phosphoprotein p60c-src is subject to cell cycle-specific regulation. it is most active during mitosis and repressed in interphase. here we report that mitotic p60c-src is dephosphorylated at tyrosine 527. we also show that in cells expressing middle-t, src kinase activity is high both in mitosis and during interphase. an oncogenic mutant src protein, p60c-src(527f), where tyrosine 527 is substituted by phenylalanine, is also highly active in all phases of the cell cycle.
characteristics of duodenal wall gastrinomas. fifteen patients with duodenal wall gastrinomas (dwgs) and the zollinger-ellison syndrome have been treated since 1960. in 6 of 11 patients, dwgs were recognized at operation and totally excised. in four patients, the tumor was subsequently found in the proximal duodenum of the surgical specimens. in 12 patients, dwgs were single and lymph node metastases were present in 8. in three patients, dwgs were multiple and lymph node metastases were present in two. all dwgs were submucosal and all were located in the first or second portions of the duodenum except one found in the fourth portion. tumor size ranged from 1 to 15 mm, and nine were less than 5 mm. of 12 patients with single dwgs, 9 have remained eugastrinemic after resection (mean follow-up: 5.5 years). none of the patients with multiple dwgs became eugastrinemic after surgery. dwgs are characteristically single, small or microscopic, submucosal, located in the proximal duodenum, rarely metastasize to the liver, and are usually curable by surgical resection.
chronic anaemia, hyperbaric oxygen and tumour radiosensitivity. anaemia is an important factor in the response of some human tumours to radiotherapy. the outcome is also influenced by whether the treatment is given in air or high pressure oxygen (hpo). the present study examined the relationship between anaemia and tumour response to radiation given in air or hpo in c3h mice transplanted with a mammary adenocarcinoma using a growth delay assay to assess the radiation response. chronic anaemia was induced by the use of a low iron diet and was characterized by a significant reduction in host haematocrit and whole blood viscosity. in addition, anaemia was associated with a right shift in the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and an increase in the volume doubling time of the tumour; but there was no change in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells. radiation studies with these anaemic mice demonstrated that the tumour radiosensitivity was decreased when treatment was given in air. hpo was successful in overcoming the increased radioresistance associated with anaemia. this result suggested that tumours grown in anaemic mice have a higher hypoxic fraction than those grown in control mice. changes in host physiology with chronic anaemia may contribute to the benefit seen with hpo but such alterations per se may be inadequate to maintain tumour oxygenation when treatment is given in air.
physiologic responses to prolonged electrically stimulated leg-cycle exercise in the spinal cord injured. this study determined the physiologic responses to prolonged functional neuromuscular stimulation (fns) leg-cycle exercise in seven quadriplegic and seven paraplegic subjects. each subject completed 30 minutes of continuous fns leg cycling during which open-circuit spirometry, impedance cardiography, auscultation, and fingertip capillary blood sampling were used to assess metabolic and hemodynamic responses. compared with resting values, oxygen uptake, carbon dioxide production, respiratory exchange ratio (rer), pulmonary ventilation, heart rate (hr), left ventricular stroke volume (sv), cardiac output (qt), and blood lactate (la) concentration were significantly (p less than .05) elevated, whereas plasma volume, bicarbonate concentration, and ph were significantly decreased in both groups during prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise. mean arterial pressure remained unchanged in quadriplegic and paraplegic subjects during the prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise bout. persons with quadriplegia elicited significantly lower map and tended to have lower sv and qt responses than persons with paraplegia, probably due to a higher degree of sympathetic dysfunction and circulatory hypokinesis during fns leg-cycle exercise. all other physiologic variables responded similarly between groups. we speculate that the relative increases observed for hr (33% to 60%), sv (45% to 69%), and qt (113% to 142%) during prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise create a sufficient cardiac-volume load to promote central cardiovascular conditioning in persons with both quadriplegia and paraplegia. the la accumulation (4.7 to 5.2 mmol.l-1) in the spinal cord injured during prolonged fns leg cycling is unusually high for the power output attained (5.2w and 6.1w for quadriplegia and paraplegia, respectively).
nebulized albuterol in acute bronchiolitis. in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 40 infants between 6 weeks and 24 months of age who had a first episode of wheezing and other signs and symptoms of bronchiolitis were randomly assigned to receive either nebulized albuterol (0.15 mg/kg/dose) or placebo (saline solution) for two administrations 1 hour apart. the albuterol therapy resulted in a significantly greater improvement in the accessory muscle score (decreases 0.70 vs decreases 0.30; p = 0.03), oxygen saturation (increases 0.71% vs decreases 0.47%; p = 0.01) after one dose, and in the accessory muscle score (decreases 0.86 vs decreases 0.37; p = 0.02), respiratory rate (decreases 19.6% vs decreases 8.0%; p = 0.016), and oxygen saturation (increases 0.76% vs decreases 0.79%; p = 0.015) after two doses of the drug. the response to therapy was similar in infants younger and those older than 6 months of age. the heart rate rose slightly more in the albuterol group (increases 7.76 from baseline) versus the placebo group (decreases 6.79). there were no other side effects of the treatment. of the 34 children from whom nasal specimens were obtained by swab for viral identification, 24 had positive test results (21 for respiratory syncytial virus, 1 for parainfluenza, 1 for paramyxovirus, and 1 for influenza a). we conclude that nebulized albuterol constitutes a safe and effective treatment of infants with bronchiolitis.
a blinded comparison of noninvasive, in vivo phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and the in vitro halothane/caffeine contracture test in the evaluation of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility. malignant hyperthermia (mh) is a potentially fatal, anesthetic-induced syndrome. currently, the only accurate means of diagnosing susceptibility to this syndrome is the testing of biopsied skeletal muscle for its contracture response to halothane and caffeine. a less invasive means of diagnosis is needed. the authors previously reported that mh-susceptible patients studied by in vivo phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (31p nmr) spectroscopy demonstrated a higher resting inorganic phosphate (pi) to phosphocreatine (pcr) ratio in their skeletal muscle, as well as a slower postexercise recovery of pcr/pi, when compared to normal controls. in the present blinded study, the authors compared in vivo 31p nmr determination of resting pi/pcr and recovery rate of pcr/pi in forearm muscles to in vitro halothane/caffeine contracture test results in 42 patients. forty-three control subjects were studied to establish normal nmr values of resting pi/pcr and recovery rate of pcr/pi. their findings were compared with those of 27 patients shown to be mh-susceptible and 15 patients mh-negative by contracture testing. the mh-susceptible group had a significantly (p less than 0.005) higher resting pi/pcr value (0.202 +/- 0.044) than either the mh-negative (0.152 +/- 0.043) or the control (0.141 +/- 0.026) group. the mh-susceptible group also had a significantly (p less than 0.02) slower postexercise recovery rate of pcr/pi (1.50 +/- 0.872 pcr.pi-1.min-1) than either the mh-negative (2.11 +/- 1.07 pcr.pi-1.min-1) or control (2.25 +/- 0.828 pcr.pi-1.min-1) group. twenty-six of the 27 mh-susceptible patients demonstrated abnormal nmr test results (a resting pi/pcr greater than or equal to 0.18 or recovery rate less than 1.0 pcr.pi-1.min-1), and 13 of the 15 mh-negative patients had normal nmr results. although neither nmr parameter alone was diagnostically reliable, an nmr test utilizing both parameters was quite accurate. the nmr test and contracture test demonstrated an overall agreement of 93% with a copositivity of 96% and conegativity of 87%. the sensitivity and specificity of the nmr test is estimated to be 98.8% +/- 11.8% and 95.3% +/- 20.3%, respectively. the role of 31p nmr in the diagnosis of mh susceptibility and possible mechanisms underlying the observations are discussed.
protein phosphorylation during ischemia. many investigations have shown that calcium and adenosine triphosphate are crucial to central nervous system functions. it is probable that alterations of these substances during central nervous system ischemia are involved in the processes that cause irreversible neural damage. calcium regulates several protein kinases that are responsible for phosphorylation of proteins vital for many central nervous system functions. using a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model, we found protein kinase c and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase were severely affected during the first hour of ischemia. protein kinase a was not significantly affected. the time course of lost protein kinase c enzyme activity closely corresponded to irreversible loss of neurologic function, and there is evidence that protein kinase c inhibitor activity is generated. also, drugs that inhibit protein kinase c increased neurologic damage when administered during the early phases of ischemia. these results suggest that protein phosphorylation, particularly by protein kinase c, is critical to maintenance of neurologic function.
mesial temporal sclerosis: pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management. mesial temporal sclerosis (mts) is probably the most common symptomatic pathologic entity--alone or mixed with other pathologic features--for seizures of temporal lobe origin. the pathophysiology of mts, including any genetic influence, needs clarification. a characteristic ictal expression for seizures of mts origin appears not to exist. the majority of patients (78%) with postresection mts who are seizure-free have tightly localized interictal abnormalities restricted to f7/f8, sp1/sp2, t3/t4, and t5/t6 more than 96% of the time. mri abnormalities may be seen in 55% of patients with mts if both "hard" and "soft" criteria are used or in 20% when only "hard" criteria are used. the neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with mts, which includes intracarotid amobarbital test (iat), may prove to be increasingly useful in identifying patterns of cognitive deficit that correlate with enhancement of both lateralizing and localizing preoperative information.
alexia without agraphia associated with spleniogeniculate infarction. pure alexia, following an infarction in the distribution of the left posterior cerebral artery, is attributed to damage of the left occipital lobe and the splenium of the corpus callosum. we describe a case of pure alexia in a 57-year-old woman with infarction of the left lateral geniculate body and the splenium of the corpus callosum, a variation on this classic disconnection syndrome.
effects of energy restriction on mouse mammary tumor virus mrna levels in mammary glands and uterus and on uterine endometrial hyperplasia and pituitary histology in c3h/shn f1 mice. we investigated the effects of energy restriction on the pituitary-ovarian axis and on a hormone responsive gene, the mouse mammary tumor virus (mmtv). female c3h/shn f1-hybrid mice, known to display a high incidence of mammary tumors, ate an energy-restricted diet (48 kcal/wk) or a control diet (95 kcal/wk) beginning at the time of weaning. by 67 wk of age, 12 of 32 mice in the control group, but none of the 33 mice in the energy-restricted group, had developed mammary tumors. six tumor-free mice from each group were studied in detail at 67 wk of age. all six tumor-free control mice, but none of the six energy-restricted mice, showed uterine endometrial hyperplasia at autopsy. mice subjected to energy restriction did not display an estrous cycle. the average levels of mmtv mrna in mammary glands and uteri were strongly reduced by energy restriction. mmtv mrna levels in mammary glands from control mice were two orders of magnitude lower than those in mammary tumors. energy restriction lowered the percentage of pituitary mammatropes and suppressed proliferation of mammatropes with advancing age. energy restriction thus appeared to inhibit endometrial hyperplasia and to decrease mmtv production at the mrna level in the mammary glands and in the uterus. these effects may be a consequence of hormonal changes originating at the pituitary-ovarian axis.
should you cancel the operation when a child has an upper respiratory tract infection? cancelling an operation when a child has an upper respiratory tract infection (uri) is not always feasible or practical. yet we know very little about the additional risk posed by a uri occurring in a child undergoing anesthesia and surgery. using a large prospectively collected pediatric anesthesia database, we studied 1283 children with a preoperative uri and 20,876 children without a uri. we found that children with a uri were two to seven times more likely to experience respiratory-related adverse events during the intraoperative, recovery room, and postoperative phases of their operative experience. although these children also experienced significant disruptions in temperature regulation, they were not at risk for any other deleterious events. the elevation in risk after uri as compared with children without a uri was not explained by differences in age, physical status scores, surgical site, and emergency or elective status. however, if a child had a uri and had endotracheal anesthesia, the risk of a respiratory complication increased 11-fold (95% confidence intervals 6.8, 18.1). we conclude that the administration of general anesthesia to children with a uri is not benign and that these children require more observation/management in all perioperative phases of their surgical procedure.
dialysis considerations in the elderly patient. this brief review discusses several aspects of dialytic care pertinent to the older dialysis patient. heart disease, nutrition, and the quality of life for these patients are considered.
a randomized trial of the effect of three non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents in ameliorating cancer-induced fever. paraneoplastic fever is well known, and is not an uncommon problem in daily practice. in an effort to ameliorate tumour-induced fever we randomized 48 patients to receive three different non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs: naproxen (500 mg d-1), indomethacin (75 mg d-1) or diclophenac sodium (75 mg d-1). all patients had solid tumours, and microbial infection had been excluded. all three drugs were equally effective in bringing the temperature down to normal for a period of 30-33 d. naproxen had the most rapid effect. in cases of fever relapse with the first drug, when the other two drugs were given instead, both proved equally effective. no side-effects were observed. we conclude that naproxen, indomethacin and diclophenac sodium are equally effective in ameliorating paraneoplastic fever. in relapse, a second drug given subsequently can be effective as well.
prediction of free phenytoin levels based on [total phenytoin]/[albumin] ratios. potential errors with hypoalbuminemia. therapeutic monitoring of the pharmacologically active (free drug) fraction of protein-bound medications (e.g., phenytoin) represents a major diagnostic challenge in clinical and laboratory medicine. while free drug levels may be beneficial in many clinical situations, current methods for predicting free phenytoin concentrations are unreliable and not recommended for general use. the authors have demonstrated a linear relationship (r2 = 0.98) between serum levels of total and bound phenytoin in 56 patients with seizure disorders. no significant correlations were observed when total phenytoin and albumin levels were compared independently to measured concentrations of free phenytoin or percent free phenytoin. a good correlation (r2 = 0.89) existed between free phenytoin levels and [total phenytoin]/[albumin] ratios in patients with normal or elevated albumin levels, but significantly weaker correlations were found in patients with hypoalbuminemia. thus, [total phenytoin]/[albumin] ratios may have clinical value in predicting free phenytoin levels in uncomplicated patients without hypoalbuminemia.
the epithelial changes associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva: a review of the clinical, histological and viral findings in 78 women. seventy-eight excised specimens of squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were reviewed retrospectively for the presence of lichen sclerosus or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (vin) at sites proximal to the tumour or more distant. lichen sclerosus was evident in 61% and vin alone in 31%. vin iii (differentiated) was associated with over 50% of the specimens with lichen sclerosus. hpv 16 was found in six of the 11 vin lesions, investigated but in none of the six with lichen sclerosus.
clinical experience with doxazosin in general medical practice in new zealand. this study investigated the safety and efficacy of doxazosin treatment in a large population of patients (n = 336) with essential hypertension and assessed the effect of doxazosin on the serum lipid profile and the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease. patients were assigned to two groups: those with a baseline diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mm hg (group 1) and those with a baseline diastolic blood pressure less than 95 mm hg (group 2) that was controlled by previous antihypertensive therapy. doxazosin treatment (monotherapy in 76.2% of patients) significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced the blood pressure of patients in group 1 (-23/-17 mm hg) after 10 weeks and maintained the control of blood pressure for patients in group 2. heart rate was essentially unchanged in both groups. mean final daily doses of 3.6 and 3.2 mg were achieved in groups 1 and 2, respectively. treatment with doxazosin improved the severity category of hypertension for 88.4% of patients in group 1; 87.3% of patients were considered a therapy success. doxazosin had a favorable effect on the serum lipid profile in both groups of patients. the majority of lipid changes achieved statistical significance and resulted in a significant 27% decrease in the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease. doxazosin was well tolerated; only 24.1% of patients had side effects that were related or possibly related to treatment. in nine (2.7%) patients the dose of doxazosin was reduced and 26 (7.7%) patients withdrew from doxazosin therapy because of side effects.
nimodipine after resuscitation from out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation. a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized trial. one hundred fifty-five consecutive patients resuscitated after out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation by a physician-manned advanced life support unit were randomly assigned to receive nimodipine or placebo at a dosage of 10 micrograms/kg as an intravenous injection immediately after restoration of spontaneous circulation, followed by an infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg per minute for 24 hours. no significant difference was found in the 1-year survival rate of nimodipine-treated (30 [40%] of 75 patients) and placebo-treated patients (29 [36%] of 80 patients). recurrent ventricular fibrillation during the treatment occurred in one patient in the nimodipine group compared with 12 patients in the placebo group. in a post hoc analysis of patients with very long delays in advanced life support (more than 10 minutes), the 1-year survival rate was higher with nimodipine (eight [47%] of 17 patients) than with placebo (two [8%] of 26 patients). nimodipine may be of benefit in patients with delayed resuscitation.
iatrogenic injuries of peripheral nerves. in this study, we discuss 68 cases in which peripheral nerve trunks were inadvertently divided by surgeons. most of these accidents occurred in the course of planned operations. delay in diagnosis and in effecting repair was common. we list the nerves particularly at risk and the operations in which special care is needed. we recommend steps to secure prompt diagnosis and early treatment.
secretory carcinoma of the breast. most studies of secretory carcinoma of the breast have been single case reports or separate analyses of the problem in either children or adults. we studied 10 female patients, aged 5 to 87 years. most patients presented with a palpable mass, often near the areola. five of six tumors were estrogen receptor negative; three analyzed for progesterone receptor were positive. histologic patterns present in varying proportions were "classic" secretory carcinoma with microacini, abundant secretion with papillary features, and with prominent solid and papillary apocrine features. the tumors had strong reactivity for alpha-lactalbumin, s100, and carcinoembryonic antigen (polyclonal) and were negative for gross cystic disease fluid protein and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (monoclonal). six patients had mastectomy; four had local excision; none had axillary nodal metastases initially. with follow-up of 3 to 72 months (mean, 47 months; median, 48 months), two patients treated by local excision had local recurrences, one patient had axillary nodal metastases. all patients are alive. comparison of patients under and over 30 years of age revealed one important difference: younger patients had a longer interval between detection and biopsy-30 vs 2 months. treatment recommendations are initial wide excision or quadrantectomy with low axillary dissection in most cases and, in premenarchal patients, strong effort to preserve the breast bud without jeopardizing local control.
epidermal growth factor regulates the in vitro sensitivity of human ovarian carcinoma cells to cisplatin. cisplatin (ddp) is the most effective drug for the treatment of human ovarian cancer, but the mechanisms that determine sensitivity to the cytotoxic action of ddp are not well understood. treatment of two human ovarian carcinoma cell lines with epidermal growth factor (egf) simultaneously increased sensitivity to ddp and caused a persistent change in morphology in the absence of any mitogenic effect. sensitization to ddp was shown to be dependent on both egf concentration and egf receptor number in c127 mouse fibroblasts expressing the human egf receptor after transfection with a pbpv plasmid construct containing the human egf receptor gene under control of the transferrin receptor 3'-inducible regulator. sensitization of human ovarian carcinoma cells to ddp was not blocked by inhibition of protein synthesis. egf did not enhance sensitivity to ddp or alter morphology in ddp-resistant human ovarian carcinoma cells despite the presence of functional egf receptors on these cells. these results showed that elements of the signal transduction pathway activated by egf determined cellular sensitivity to ddp, and that a ddp-resistant phenotype is associated with a defect in this signal transduction pathway.
effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia. dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders. aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates. assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively. this prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients' caloric intake and body weight, decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia, or improve patients' feeding ability. patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit. a time series design was utilized. the control group consisted of 15 patients (mean age = 46.1 years), managed according to the existing ward routine. subsequently, nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program. following this, the treated group of 16 patients, (mean age = 49.3 years) was assessed by the dysphagia team, using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder. an individualized treatment program was designed for each patient. the groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight, deviation from ideal energy intake, and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia. statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age, number of days on the study, and glasgow coma scale score; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group. no incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group. we speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups.
young-onset parkinson's disease: a clinical review. young-onset parkinson's disease (yopd) is arbitrarily defined as that which produces initial symptoms between the ages of 21 and 39, inclusive. the special problems and concerns of the patient with yopd present as much of a challenge and opportunity for the clinician as the disease itself does for the researcher. in contrast to juvenile parkinsonism, which is a heterogeneous group of clinicopathologic entities presenting (also arbitrarily) before age 21, yopd appears to be the same nosologic entity as older-onset pd. it comprises approximately 5% of referral populations in western countries and about 10% in japan. its annual incidence relative to the population at risk is about 1/10 that of pd at age sixty. yopd tends to have more gradual progression of parkinsonian signs and symptoms, earlier appearance of levodopa-related dyskinesias and levodopa-dose-related motor fluctuations, and frequent presence of dystonia as an early or presenting sign. studies conflict with regard to the suspected greater familial frequency and lesser frequency of dementia than in older-onset pd.
unusual aspects of aortovenous fistulas associated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. three unusual cases of an abdominal aortic aneurysm spontaneously rupturing into the retroperitoneum and an adherent posterior vein are reported. no patient demonstrated signs or symptoms of an aortovenous fistula before surgery. emergent surgery prevented extensive preoperative diagnostic testing. the three abdominal aortic aneurysms were very large and averaged 13 cm in diameter. one fistula involved an inflammatory aneurysm, which is the fifth such case reported. the aortic fistulas were to the inferior vena cava (158 other cases reported in the english-language literature), a left renal vein (16 other cases reported), and an iliac vein (7 other cases reported). routine use of the cell-saver, oversewing of the fistula from within the aneurysm, and a heightened awareness that this unusual complication is more common in the presence of a very large, ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm should improve survival.
psychosocial, functional, and quality of life assessment of patients with posttraumatic fracture nonunion, chronic refractory osteomyelitis, and lower extremity amputation. one hundred nine patients with long-bone fracture nonunion, chronic refractory osteomyelitis, or posttraumatic amputation were evaluated for the impact of chronic disability on quality of life, as measured by the arthritis impact measurement scale (aims) and the psychosocial adjustment to illness scale (pais). a self-administered pais for spouses assessed psychosocial adjustment of spouses or significant others. a final questionnaire ranked the reasons for either continuing medical therapy or accepting amputation. the pais scores differed significantly between osteomyelitis patients and both nonunion and amputation patients (p less than .05). the presence or absence of pain produced significant differences in aims and pais scores of nonunion and osteomyelitis patients (p less than .05). subscale analysis of aims scores revealed significant differences among the three groups in health perception and scale of orthopedic problem: osteomyelitis patients were more severely affected than nonunion or amputation patients. the pais detected no statistically significant difference in psychosocial adjustment of spouses of patients in the three population groups. the most common reason for continuing medical and surgical management of nonunion and osteomyelitis was expectation for cure. the amputee group chose ablation to avoid further treatment. differences in psychosocial and functional ability were related to disease diagnosis, pain, status of fracture healing, and timing of amputation.
reversal of colchicine-induced mitotic arrest in chinese hamster cells with a colchicine-specific monoclonal antibody. the ability of a high-affinity colchicine-binding monoclonal antibody to reverse the effects of colchicine on chinese hamster ovary cells was investigated. using flow cytometry, a complete mitotic blockade was demonstrated after 16 hours with 2.5 x 10(-7) mol/l (molar) colchicine. colchicine-induced changes were reversible when equimolar antibody was added simultaneously with or up to 6 hours after colchicine. with further delay in addition of antibody, a progressive irreversible increase in mitotic blockade and increase in mean cell size was observed. prolonged colchicine exposure, without antibody reversal, led to polyploidy and structural chromosome breakage. early antibody reversal restored cells to the diploid state, whereas delayed reversal resulted in a time-dependent increase in polyploidy. colchicine-induced polyploidy and chromosomal aberrations may be the basis for both colchicine toxicity and the time-dependent increase in irreversibility of colchicine effects.
mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients: findings at cholangiography, ct, and us. the case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated. all patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation. cholangiographic, ultrasound (us), and computed tomography (ct) images were available for review in eight, five, and four patients, respectively. cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients. us and ct showed fairly well- to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients, respectively. the findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant. ct and us images may offer confirmatory evidence.
hemorrhoids. a practical approach to an aggravating problem. although hemorrhoids are considered a minor medical problem, they may cause considerable discomfort and anxiety. fortunately, treatment is often simple and surgery is rarely necessary. in this practical article, dr cocchiara describes internal and external hemorrhoids, a classification system, and treatment choices based on the degree of involvement.
obstructing carcinoma of the cecum. carcinoma of the cecum, the third most common location for malignancy of the large bowel, was examined with attention centered upon cecal cancers producing obstruction. reviewing 136 patients revealed 11 obstructing lesions (8.1%) presenting as distal small bowel obstructions. the mean age of the patients was 74 years. all but one patient had resection for cure which consisted of a right hemicolectomy with ileotransverse colostomy. there was no operative mortality or significant morbidity. bowel obstruction due to cecal carcinoma is an infrequent occurrence arising in elderly patients and carries a poor survival rate due to advanced disease at the time of diagnosis and treatment.
cirrhosis and portal hypertension in a patient with adult niemann-pick disease. a woman with known niemann-pick disease, type b, presented at age 33 with upper gastrointestinal bleeding, ascites, and peripheral edema. evaluation showed massive hepatosplenomegaly, infiltration of the liver with niemann-pick cells, cirrhosis, and evidence of portal hypertension. chronic gastrointestinal bleeding, thrombocyctopenia, and platelet dysfunction were treated successfully by splenectomy. cirrhosis and portal hypertension have not been reported previously in adult niemann-pick disease in the absence of some other cause.
cervical lymph node metastasis: assessment of radiologic criteria. to estimate the accuracy of different radiologic criteria used to detect cervical lymph node metastasis in patients with head and neck carcinoma, seven different characteristics of 2,719 lymph nodes in 71 neck dissection specimens from 55 patients were assessed. three lymph node diameters, their location, their number, the presence of a tumor, and the amount of necrosis and fatty metaplasia were recorded. the minimal diameter in the axial plane was found to be the most accurate size criterion for predicting lymph node metastasis. a minimal axial diameter of 10 mm was determined to be the most effective size criterion. the size criterion for lymph nodes in the subdigastric region was 1 mm larger (11 mm). groups of three or more borderline nodes were proved to increase the sensitivity but did not significantly decrease the specificity. radiologically detectable necrosis (3 mm or larger) was found only in tumorous nodes and was present in 74% of the positive neck dissection specimens. shape was not a valuable criterion for the radiologic assessment of the cervical lymph node status.
renal function in obstructive jaundice in man: cholangiocarcinoma model. renal function with respect to water clearance and renal hemodynamics was studied in 15 patients with obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma. the results were compared with those of the control normal subjects. there was no change in renal function in the patients with mild to moderate jaundice, with total serum bilirubin from 8.0 to 15.1 mg/dl. increased urinary sodium excretion and decreased free water and negative water clearances were observed in the patients with severe jaundice with total serum bilirubin from 27.0 to 40.4 mg/dl and normal serum albumin. renal blood flow was normal, but creatinine clearance was decreased. in severely jaundiced patients with serum bilirubin from 30.5 to 40.1 mg/dl and hypoalbuminemia urinary sodium excretion, free water clearance, negative water clearance, renal blood flow and creatinine clearance were decreased. there was salt and water retention in this group. the findings suggest that in severe jaundice there is inhibition of sodium chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of henle's loop. adh and increased hydraulic conductivity of the collecting tubules possibly contribute to decreased free water clearance. in severely jaundiced patients with hypoalbuminemia this salt losing effect is converted to salt retention by increased proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium.
cardiac rehabilitation after coronary artery bypass grafting: effects on exercise performance and risk factors. after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg), 49 nonselected patients followed a cardiac rehabilitation program that included medical follow-up and physical training, both in outpatient groups and on an individual basis at home. the effect of the program on exercise test variables, coronary risk factors, and medication one year after surgery was compared to a nonexercised control group (n = 98). the study group showed less increase in the rate-pressure product, indicating a favorable effect on myocardial oxygen consumption (0.7 +/- 5.4 vs 2.8 +/- 5.6, p less than .05); a lower frequency of angina at exercise testing (6% vs 18%, p less than .01); a reduction in resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure (9/4mmhg, p less than .01); fewer smokers (6% vs 17%, p less than .05); and fewer patients taking long-acting nitrates (0% vs 10.2%, p less than .05). it is suggested, therefore, that an organized cardiac rehabilitation program may be advantageous after cabg.
splenectomy for the massively enlarged spleen. the experience at the national cancer institute from 1955 to 1988 with 46 cases of splenectomy for massive splenomegaly (greater than or equal to 1,500 grams) was reviewed to assess the indications, pathology, operative, and postoperative course for this procedure. the median age was 51 years. thirty-one splenectomies (67.4%) were performed for malignancy (chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 11; chronic myelogenous leukemia, 10; lymphoma, 9; hairy cell leukemia, 1), 11 for myeloid metaplasia, and four for other nonmalignant conditions. indications for splenectomy included hypersplenism (32 patients), symptoms (6), diagnosis (3), and splenic rupture (3). a midline incision (30 patients) was most commonly used. median operative time was 2 hours, 50 minutes. median operative blood loss was 1,300 ml (range, 100 ml-60 units). the splenic artery was ligated initially in 16 patients (34.8%) but did not correlate with blood loss or operating time. the median splenic weight was 2,030 grams (range, 1500-5320 gm). the postoperative complication rate was 39.1 per cent (21 complications in 18 patients). this included infection in 10 patients, bleeding in six patients. six patients required reoperation (bleeding, 4; abscess, 1; small bowel obstruction, 1 patient). the 30-day operative mortality was 19.6 per cent (9 patients). excluding operative deaths, 35 patients were available for follow-up evaluation. twenty-nine patients had improvement in parameters for which splenectomy was indicated. six patients had no change in their course after splenectomy. these findings indicate that many patients with massive splenomegaly benefit from splenectomy, however, the procedure is associated with a high risk for postoperative morbidity and mortality.
indocyanine green elimination in patients with liver disease and in normal subjects. 1. the validity of a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model for the estimation of the hepatic extraction ratio of indocyanine green was tested in six patients with cirrhosis of the liver. 2. no agreement was found between the value of the hepatic extraction ratio measured directly and that calculated using the two-compartment model. 3. to investigate the reasons for the failure of the model, an extended sampling period was used to define the time course of indocyanine green in plasma in six healthy subjects and in six patients with cirrhosis of the liver after a bolus injection of the dye. 4. indocyanine green was measurable in the plasma for up to 10 h after injection in healthy subjects, and up to 48 h after injection in the patients. the plasma elimination curve in both groups was best described by a triexponential function. 5. the clearance of indocyanine green calculated using data collected in the first 20 min after injection overestimated that calculated using data collected for as long as indocyanine green was measurable in the plasma. in the patients with cirrhosis the mean overestimate was 87%. 6. thus, a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model was inappropriate for the description of the disposition of indocyanine green and estimates of the hepatic extraction ratio obtained using this model in patients with cirrhosis were inaccurate.
medical comorbidity of major depressive disorder in a primary medical practice. despite much speculation about the relationship between depression and medical comorbidity in primary care settings, few investigators have examined this issue empirically. using a two-stage screening procedure, we assessed 618 patients aged 18 to 64 years in an academic general medicine clinic. forty-one patients (6.6%) suffered from a current episode of major depressive disorder (mdd). we compared this group with a 20% random sample of nondepressed patients. while patients with mdd were younger (mean age, 41.1 vs 47.2 years), they were assessed by the duke university severity of illness scale as having more severe medical illness. patients with mdd were more likely to have malignant tumors and "ill-defined conditions" than nondepressed patients. the 18 patients with mdd (44%) who were correctly diagnosed by their physicians had less severe medical illness than those whose depression was clinically undetected. a logistic regression model predicting mdd group membership included female gender, younger age, higher duke university severity of illness scale score, and more frequent inactive ill-defined diagnoses. these findings are consistent with assertions: (1) patients with mdd have more physical illness than nondepressed patients and/or (2) somatic symptoms and disability caused by mdd add to the burden of physical illness.
pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures. a pulse oximeter was used to monitor arterial oxygen saturations in 11 patients during apparent tonic-clonic seizures. 8 had a clinical diagnosis of genuine fits, 6 of whom showed striking falls in oxygen saturation during the seizures. 3 had a clinical diagnosis of pseudoseizures, none of whom had hypoxia during these episodes. pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures may help to identify patients with low arterial oxygen tension who need immediate intervention.
histocompatibility testing in transplantation. the question of whether or not hla is important in transplantation can now be answered with a definite yes. the nationwide six-antigen-matching program, in which over 100 us transplantation centers have participated, has shown that a high (88% to 90%) 1-year graft survival rate can be achieved when kidneys are shipped to well-matched recipients. long-term outcome (measured as half-life) is also markedly improved, from an average of 7 years for cadaveric donor transplants to as much as 19 years in the six-antigen-matched recipients. one of the major factors influencing long-term survival is histocompatibility matching, as shown by the survival differences among hla-identical siblings (25-year half-life), one-haplotype-mismatched parental donors (12-year half-life), and two-haplotype-mismatched cadaveric donors (7-year half-life). for the past 25 years of kidney transplant experience, cadaveric donor half-life has remained stable at 7 years, despite many improvements in immunosuppression protocols. histocompatibility matching unquestionably offers the best approach to prevention of chronic rejection.
have changing treatment patterns affected outcome for operable breast cancer? ten-year follow-up in 1288 patients, 1965 to 1978. from 1965 to 1978, 1288 patients with primary operable breast cancer were treated by the senior author, using extended radical (erm), radical (rm), and modified radical (mrm) mastectomy operations exclusively. results were analyzed for trends in overall and disease-free survival, and patterns of local and distant relapse, the years 1965 to 1970 versus 1971 to 1974 versus 1975 to 1978. significant changes (p less than 0.00001) from 1965 to 1978 included progressively earlier stage of disease, less frequent use of rm and erm, a decline in the use of postoperative radiotherapy, and the introduction in 1975 of multidrug adjuvant chemotherapy. ten-year disease-free survival rates improved significantly for all patients (by 11%, p = 0.00004) and for node-negative (by 12%, p = 0.0024), node-positive (by 8%, p = 0.012), clinical stage ii (by 15%, p = 0.0022), and pathologic stage ii (by 12%, p = 0.016) disease. ten-year local recurrence for all patients was 3% (local only) and 2% (local with distant metastasis), and survival from date of recurrence for all patients failing treatment increased two times (p less than 0.0001) for patients treated most recently. as the primary surgical treatment of breast cancer continues to become more moderate, the promise of systemic adjuvant therapies can be realized only with continued emphasis on earlier diagnosis and maximal local control of disease.
acute autonomic neuropathy. two cases and a clinical review. acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome, usually affecting healthy young people. presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common. we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature. acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension (26%) or pandysautonomic (74%) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions. onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20% of cases, with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks. gastroparesis (69%) and syncope (12%) are frequent presenting complaints. spinal fluid protein levels are often (75%) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes. prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule (60%), with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension. other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism, porphyria, amyloidosis, and paracarcinomatous neuropathies. acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy (guillain-barre syndrome), suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis.
the history of nitrite in human nutrition: a contribution from german cookery books. in order to settle the question of when saltpetre (nitrate) came in use as an additive to human food, a number of historic cookery books from germany and austria were reviewed. obviously, the change from vegetable dyes to saltpetre for the coloring or color preservation, respectively, of meat occurred between 1600 and 1750, probably near 1700. the addition of sugar which favours the reduction of nitrate to the active agent nitrite became common practice during the 19th century. thus some historic parallels to the appearance of colorectal cancer, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis in the medical literature became apparent.
stimulation of camp and phosphomonoester production by melanotropin in melanoma cells: 31p nmr studies. a major part of the present understanding of the molecular basis of signal transduction has been gained from in vitro studies using classical biochemical methods. in this study, we used 31p nmr spectroscopy to investigate the response of live m2r mouse melanoma cells to stimulation by melanocyte-stimulating hormone (msh; melanotropin). in the presence of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and a synergistic dose of forskolin (1.67 microm), msh induced a transient (approximately 60-min) rise in the cellular concentration of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (camp), which coincided in time with an equivalent decrease (approximately 40%) in atp. however, no detectable change in phosphocreatine concentration was observed. concomitantly, msh induced a striking and unexpected increase in the concentration of three phosphomonoester (pme) metabolites (approximately 2-fold increase in total pme signal area); one signal has been assigned to phosphoethanolamine. the levels of the pmes remained high for 2-4 hr and declined slowly (approximately 10 hr) to basal level, following perfusion with fresh culture medium. the increase in pme was also observed after stimulation with msh alone. in contrast, stimulation with a high dose of forskolin (50 microm) and isobutylmethylxanthine (0.2 mm), although effective in stimulating the production of camp, did not induce the pme response. evaluation of the cells' energetics indicated that the enhanced production of phosphoethanolamine is probably not due to ethanolamine phosphorylation. therefore, it is likely to result from hydrolysis of phosphatidylethanolamine by a specific phospholipase c. the response of the pmes appears to be regulated by a camp-independent process, suggesting the existence of an alternative transduction pathway controlled by msh.
inhibition of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii synthesis by phorbol ester in the y-79 retinoblastoma cell. pyroglutamyl peptidase ii (ec 3.4.19.-), a highly specific membrane-bound trh-degrading enzyme, is inactivated in y-79 human retinoblastoma cells by exposure to 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (tpa) in a biphasic manner. we have previously demonstrated a rapid decrease in pyroglutamyl peptidase ii activity to 10% of the control level within 15 min, which returns to 70% of the control level by 1 h. this decrease results from enzyme phosphorylation by tpa-activated protein kinase-c. we now report a second phase of inactivation after longer exposure of cells to tpa. after 1 h, enzymatic activity slowly and progressively declined. by 7 h, only 15% of control activity remained. cotreatment of cells with h-7, a protein kinase-c inhibitor, prevented this second phase of inactivation. immunoblot experiments demonstrated a reduction in the amount of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii in y-79 membranes after long term exposure to tpa. y-79 cells were labeled with [35s]methionine, and pyroglutamyl peptidase ii was immunoprecipitated. a decreased incorporation of [35s]methionine paralleled the decrease in enzyme activity. these studies demonstrate that the second phase of inactivation after exposure to tpa is due to an inhibition of enzyme synthesis.
arterial aneurysms in children: clinicopathologic classification. thirty-one arterial macroaneurysms in 23 pediatric-aged patients (16 boys and 7 girls) were treated at the university of michigan. the average age at time of diagnosis was 10.2 years (range 6 months to 18 years). vessels involved the aorta (4), as well as hepatic (1), splenic (2), gastroepiploic (1), renal (12), iliac (1), superficial femoral (4), popliteal (1), brachial (1), radial (2), and ulnar (2) arteries. twelve children exhibited overt clinical manifestations including presence of a mass (7), local pain (3), hematemesis (1), and painless obstructive jaundice (1). eleven children had asymptomatic lesions. aneurysm existence was confirmed by arteriography or operation. all but one child underwent surgical therapy, with 20 long-term survivors (mean follow-up 3.5 years). one operative death occurred and one death occurred 6 years after surgery. this experience and a review of previously reported cases served as a basis for categorization of childhood aneurysmal disease as true aneurysms associated with (i) arterial infection, (ii) giant-cell aortoarteritis, (iii) autoimmune connective tissue disease, (iv) kawasaki's disease, (v) ehlers-danlos syndrome or marfan's syndrome, (vi) other forms of noninflammatory medial degeneration, (vii) arterial dysplasias, (viii) congenital-idiopathic factors, as well as (ix) false aneurysms associated with extravascular events causing vessel wall injury or disruption. knowledge of the varied clinicopathologic characteristics of arterial aneurysms in children is important in treating these patients.
immediate regional endocardial surface expansion following coronary occlusion in the canine left ventricle: disproportionate effects of anterior versus inferior ischemia. the exact time of onset of functional expansion after acute myocardial infarction/ischemia remains unclear in spite of its potential link to chronic pathologic infarct expansion and its potential implications for therapy. to examine this early change in ventricular morphology, 14 open-chest dogs were studied with two-dimensional echocardiography before and after occlusion (10 minutes) of the left anterior descending coronary artery (lad, n = 7) or circumflex artery (circ, n = 7). the endocardial surface area (esa) and the area of abnormal wall motion (awm) were reconstructed from the echocardiographic data using a previously reported technique for quantitatively mapping the esa and extent of awm. for the total group (n = 14), the mean esa before occlusion was 48.9 +/- 9.8 cm2, increasing to 65.7 +/- 18.9 cm2 at 10 minutes occlusion (p less than 0.001). for the lad subgroup, the mean esa before occlusion was 50.7 +/- 9.3 cm2, increasing to 79.1 +/- 14.1 cm2 at 10 minutes following occlusion (p less than 0.001). for the circ subgroup, the mean esa before occlusion was 47.1 +/- 10.8 cm2, increasing to 52.3 +/- 12.6 cm2 at 10 minutes after occlusion (p less than 0.001). the esa increase for the lad subgroup was significantly larger than that of the circ subgroup (lad range 14.5 to 49.9 cm2 versus circ range 1.5 to 9 cm2, p less than 0.0001). coronary occlusion resulted in similarly sized regions of awm for both subgroups (lad, 31.3 +/- 12.2 cm2 versus circ, 25.9 +/- 10.3 cm2, p = n.s.). for the lad group, the largest increase in endocardial circumference occurred within the zone of awm at the apex (39.9 +/- 12%). the endocardial surface area therefore expands immediately after coronary occlusion and the magnitude of this process is primarily related to the site (anteroapical) rather than to the extent of awm.
experience with cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest in the management of retroperitoneal tumors with large vena caval thrombi. from june 1984 to september 1989, 43 patients with large vena caval tumor thrombi from retroperitoneal malignancies underwent surgical treatment with cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (dhca). the primary malignancies were renal cell carcinoma (rcc) (n = 39), renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma (n = 1), adrenal pheochromocytoma (n = 1), and renal (n = 1) or retroperitoneal (n = 1) sarcoma. the level of the caval thrombus was either suprahepatic (n = 27), intrahepatic (n = 14), or subhepatic (n = 2). in all cases the primary tumor and caval thrombus were completely removed. concomitant procedures included coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 5), pulmonary resection (n = 2), and hepatic lobectomy (n = 1). the time of circulatory arrest ranged from 10 to 44 minutes (mean, 23.5 minutes). there were two operative deaths (4.7%), neither of them due to to the use of dhca. major postoperative complications occurred in 13 patients (30.2%). there were no ischemic or neurologic complications and no cases of perioperative tumor embolization. the median postoperative hospital stay was 9 days. twenty-two patients (51%) are alive and enjoying a good quality of life. the 3-year patient survival rates in patients with localized (n = 24) versus metastatic (n = 15) rcc are 63.9% and 10.9%, respectively (p = 0.02). we conclude that cpb with dhca facilities excision of retroperitoneal malignancies with large caval thrombi and provides the potential for cure with low morbidity and mortality rates.
ventricular tachycardia in two patients with aids receiving ganciclovir (dhpg). we report two cases of patients who developed ventricular tachycardia while receiving intravenous infusions of ganciclovir [9-(1,3-dihydroxy-2-propoxy)methylguanine, dhpg]. worsening cytomegalovirus infection prompted renewal of ganciclovir therapy under close cardiac monitoring in one of these patients, and ventricular tachycardia recurred. the close temporal relationship between administration of the drug and onset of the arrhythmias in conjunction with the absence of other factors known to predispose to arrhythmias suggest that ganciclovir may have played a role in the development of arrhythmias in these patients. the clinical courses of the patients are discussed, as are autopsy results.
left ventricular aneurysm secondary to behcet's disease. a 16-year-old boy with behcet's disease who was seen with thrombophlebitis of the leg was found to have coronary artery occlusion with postinfarction left ventricular aneurysm. recurrent femoral artery aneurysms and orogenital ulceration developed in him. the diagnostic features together with successful treatment of this patient and a discussion of behcet's syndrome are presented.
relationship among level of distraction, evoked potentials, spinal cord ischemia and integrity, and clinical status in animals. somatosensory evoked potentials (seps) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (nmeps) were recorded after overdistraction of the spinal cord at t5-t6, t12-l1, or l3-l4. measures of spinal cord perfusion and clinical status were also administered. results indicated that stiffer spinal segments allowed less distraction than more flexible segments. seps and nmeps were lost quickly after overdistraction in stiff segments and slowly in more flexible segments. however, seps were less sensitive than nmeps to effects from overdistraction. spinal cord perfusion and integrity were consistent with reduced perfusion and structural damage after overdistraction in stiff segments; extremely reduced perfusion but no structural changes in more flexible segments. the application of these results to the clinical situation was provided.
abnormal membrane physical properties of red cells in mcleod syndrome. mcleod red cells (rbcs) lack kx antigens and have weak expression of the kell antigens. individuals who carry the mcleod phenotype have acanthocytic rbcs and a compensated hemolytic state. to elucidate the role of the protein on which the kx antigens reside in maintaining membrane deformability, the rheologic properties of mcleod rbcs were determined by ektacytometry. rbcs were obtained from normal individuals and from four patients with mcleod syndrome. osmotic gradient deformability profiles of mcleod rbcs showed decreased whole cell deformability. resealed ghosts from mcleod rbcs also showed decreased deformability, partly because of the decreased cell surface area and partly because of an intrinsic membrane stiffness in this syndrome. for the measurement of membrane mechanical stability, resealed ghosts were subjected to constant high shear stress in the ektacytomer, and deformability was recorded continuously as the deformable ghosts fragmented into rigid spherical vesicles. membranes from mcleod rbcs showed a noticeable increase in mechanical stability. acquired causes of acanthocytosis, such as liver disease, did not cause the rheologic abnormalities observed in mcleod cells. other abnormalities noted in mcleod rbcs were decreased rbc potassium content and an increased number of dense rbcs, as determined by centrifugation on a discontinuous density gradient. the data indicate that mcleod rbcs are rigid and have decreased surface area and that their membranes are intrinsically rigid with increased mechanical stability. these abnormalities may account for the reduced rbc survival observed in mcleod syndrome. the protein that carries the kx surface antigen seems to be required for the maintenance of the normal physical function of rbc skeletal proteins.
treatment of complicated prosthetic aortic valve endocarditis with annular abscess formation by homograft aortic root replacement. the outcome of 30 consecutive patients with active aortic prosthetic valve endocarditis and root abscesses treated by the technique of homograft aortic root replacement with reimplantation of the coronary arteries is detailed. the principles of this technique are the removal of all abscesses and infected areas likely to drain into the infected mediastinum, excision of infected tissues down to healthy noninfected tissue and replacement with an antibiotic-impregnated homograft aortic root. all patients had evidence of progressive cardiac failure and ongoing sepsis. mean patient age (+/- sd) at the time of operation was 42 +/- 18 years. the mean number of previous aortic valve replacements per patient was 1.6 +/- 0.7; 14 patients (47%) had undergone greater than or equal to 2 previous replacements. at operation, aortic root abscesses were found in all patients; abscess extension to adjacent structures and partial valve dehiscence had occurred in 23. in-hospital death occurred in 9 (30%) of the 30 patients. the 21 hospital survivors have been followed up for a mean of 66 +/- 42 months (range 9 to 144). overall, 17 (81%) of the 21 hospital survivors have remained free of major adverse events (recurrence of endocarditis, need for reoperation or death). the results of our study suggest that homograft aortic root replacement should be considered favorably in the treatment of patients with aortic prosthetic valve endocarditis and root abscesses.
sympathetic neural adjustments to stress in physically trained and untrained humans. the purpose of this study was to determine if the state of physical training influences sympathetic neural activation during acute stress in humans. we recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity (microneurography of the peroneal nerve), arterial blood pressure, and heart rate in 12 highly trained, endurance athletes (25 +/- 1 years, mean +/- sem) and 12 untrained subjects (27 +/- 1 years) before (supine rest control) and during: 1) lower body negative pressure at -5, -10, -15, and -20 mm hg (orthostatic stress); 2) isometric handgrip at 30% of maximum (exercise stress); and 3) hand immersion in ice water, that is, the cold pressor test (thermal stress). body weight was not different in the two groups, but the athletes had a lower body fat content (8.9 +/- 1.3% versus 16.1 +/- 2.0%, p less than 0.05). during supine rest, muscle sympathetic nerve burst frequency (24 +/- 3 versus 24 +/- 2 bursts/min, athletes versus untrained subjects) and burst incidence (36 +/- 3 versus 44 +/- 4 bursts/100 heart beats) and arterial blood pressure were not different in the two groups, but heart rate was lower in the athletes (54 +/- 2 versus 67 +/- 3 beats/min, p less than 0.05).
myosin expression in hypertrophied fast twitch and slow tonic muscles of normal and dystrophic chickens. disruption of the development program of myosin gene expression has been reported in chicken muscular dystrophy. in the present report, the relationship between muscular dystrophy and the ability of muscle to respond to an increased work load with a transition in the myosin phenotype has been investigated. hypertrophy of slow tonic anterior latissimus dorsi (ald) and fast twitch patagialis (pat) muscles was induced by overloading for 35 days and myosin expression was analyzed by electrophoresis and immunocytochemistry. normal and dystrophic chicken ald muscles have nearly identical proportions of sm-1 and sm-2 isomyosins and both exhibit an age-related repression of the sm-1 isomyosin which is enhanced and accelerated by overloading. immunocytochemistry with anti-myosin heavy chain (mhc) antibodies demonstrates the appearance of nascent myofibers in overloaded ald muscles from both normal and dystrophic chickens. a minor fast twitch fiber population is also identified which doubles in number with overloading in normal ald muscles. there are only half as many fast twitch fibers in control dystrophic ald muscles and this number does not increase with overloading. in contrast to ald muscles, the isomyosin profile of normal and dystrophic pat muscles is quite different. there is significantly more fm-3 and significantly less fm-1 isomyosin in the dystrophic pat muscle. however, both normal and dystrophic pat muscles exhibit an overload-induced accumulation of the fm-3 isomyosin. immunocytochemistry reveals that, unlike the normal pat muscle, the dystrophic pat muscle contains a population of myofibers which express slow mhcs. as in the ald muscle, overload-induced hypertrophy is associated with a repression of the sm-1 mhc in these fibers. nascent myofiber formation does not occur in either normal or dystrophic overloaded pat muscles.
modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences. the influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive (shr) and the dahl salt-sensitive (ss/jr) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal f1 hybrids that were nurtured, respectively, during prenatal and postnatal life by shr or ss/jr mothers. following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8% nacl at 35 days of age, f1 rats reared by shr mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than f1s reared by ss/jrs. across reciprocal f1 female groups, enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure, but this association was not seen across reciprocal f1 male groups. there was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each f1/gender subgroup: rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke. lower day 35 body weights (before exposure to the high-salt diet) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal f1 groups, and within three of the four f1/gender subgroups. the differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal f1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of shr and ss/jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers.
disposable attachments in cryosurgery: a useful adjunct in the treatment of hiv-associated neoplasms. during cryosurgery of different types of lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection, it is crucial that the possibility of secondary bacterial infection be reduced. the use of disposable attachments during cryosurgery can reduce this risk of transmission of infectious agents. these attachments are discussed.
strokes in asians and pacific-islanders, hispanics, and native americans. stroke in asian and pacific-islander populations remains the principal cause of death among adults, but its incidence in the united states approximates that of caucasians. although controversial, uncontrolled hypertension in certain population groups (e.g., northern japanese) and high dietary saturated fat in others (e.g, pacific-islanders) are believed to be responsible for the high stroke incidence rates. the recent reduction in stroke frequency rates in these areas is thought to be the result of better hypertension control. in the ni-hon-san study, the level of hypertension and its frequency were similar in hawaii and japan, but ischemic infarction and intracerebral hemorrhage were less frequent in hawaii. reduced meat and fat intake may contribute to small vessel disease in japan. stroke is the third major cause of death among hispanic-americans and native americans, yet there is a paucity of information, especially about stroke, in subgroups of these populations. there is also considerable ignorance and controversy about risk factors for stroke in these populations. the need for additional research is urgent.
a phase i study including pharmacokinetics of polyethylene glycol conjugated interleukin-2. a more soluble formulation of recombinant interleukin-2 with a prolonged half-life would allow alternate routes or schedules of administration and enhance patient comfort. the covalent attachment of polyethylene glycol to recombinant interleukin-2 provides an analog with preclinical data suggesting those desired characteristics while maintaining biologic activity. this is the report of a phase i study in which we sought to determine the maximum tolerated dose of polyethylene glycol interleukin-2, observe biologic activity, and confirm the prolonged half-life in vivo. sixty-six patients were entered into the study during 19 months. polyethylene glycol interleukin-2 was administered intravenously once a week over 15 minutes. the maximum tolerated dose was 20 x 10(6) u/m2. the pattern of toxicity was quite similar to that of the parent compound. four patients had evidence of tumor regression (three partial remission; one minor response). the pharmacokinetic data confirmed a 10- to 20-fold prolongation in half-life compared with recombinant interleukin-2. no neutralizing antibodies were detected. this study provides sufficient impetus for the ongoing phase ii studies of polyethylene glycol interleukin-2.
soluble histocompatibility antigen class i in breast cancer patients in relation to tumor burden. serum beta-2 microglobulin (b-2m) levels were studied in 365 breast cancer patients and 210 age-matched controls. the patients were divided into three groups: group a, new patients at diagnosis; group b, patients at follow-up; and group c, metastatic patients. the mean b-2m of all breast cancer patients plus or minus one standard deviation (3.5 +/- 1.2; range, 1.1 to 5.9) was significantly higher than normal controls (1.29 +/- 0.49; range, 0.3 to 2.3; p less than 0.005). when the three patient groups were compared with each other, the mean b-2m level of group a (3.0 +/- 1.5; range, 0.9 to 6.9) was similar to that of group c (4.22 +/- 1.1; range, 2.0 to 6.4). the mean b-2m of both groups a and c was significantly higher than that of group b (2.38 +/- 1.02, range, 0.4 to 5.4; p less than 0.001). in group a the mean b-2m decreased significantly after a 12-month period and reached the mean level of group b but not that of normal controls. when patients in group b were analyzed by their stage of disease at diagnosis, there was no significant difference between stages i and ii. there was a significant difference in the mean b-2m levels between stages i and iii. in relapsing patients, mean b-2m levels increased. these findings suggest that serum b-2m levels may reflect tumor burden, and even in patients at follow-up, occult tumor cells may activate the immune system.
failure to limit quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotic drugs for outpatients: placing the elderly at risk. purpose: the long-term use of benzodiazepine hypnotics by the elderly is associated with serious side effects, and prescriptions of large quantities of these agents allow such use. therefore, we determined the quantities of these agents prescribed to outpatients in our veterans administration teaching hospital, and the relationship of patient age to total number of doses prescribed per prescription. patients and methods: pharmacy and patient records related to 655 consecutive prescriptions for triazolam (halcion) and flurazepam (dalmane) were reviewed. only 266 (41%) of the prescriptions were for 30 or fewer doses, while 178 (27%) were written for 180 or more doses. results: thirty-six percent of prescriptions for patients aged 65 years or older were for 180 or more doses, compared with 24% for those aged 45 to 64 years old, and 16% of the prescriptions for patients less than 45 years old (p less than 0.0001). in a multivariate analysis controlling for six other factors related to the total number of doses prescribed, patients aged 65 years or older were still more likely to receive a prescription for 180 or more doses (relative risk 1.9, 95% confidence interval 1.3, 2.8). conclusion: we conclude that inappropriately large quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotics were commonly prescribed, and that patients aged 65 years or older were at greatest risk for receiving such prescriptions.
philadelphia chromosome and monosomy 7 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a pediatric oncology group study. during an 8-year period, 3,638 children from institutions of the pediatric oncology group (pog) were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). fifty-seven patients had philadelphia chromosome-positive (ph1) all. blast cells obtained at diagnosis from 13 of these 57 cases (23%) were also found to have partial or complete monosomy 7 (-7). this subgroup of children with ph1/-7 all was comprised primarily of older males with early b-lineage all. bone marrow specimens from six ph1/-7 patients were studied further using the polymerase chain reaction and primers that flank the all, and chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoints to determine the molecular characteristic of the 9;22 translocation. rearrangements were detected in rna from bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells of six patients, although four were in hematologic remission at the time of the analysis. five cases showed the all breakpoint, while one child with ph1/-7 showed the chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoint. the induction failure rate was much higher in this subgroup (31%) as compared with ph1-negative cases, and the projected duration of event-free survival reflected the aggressive nature of this subgroup because no children are projected to remain in remission at 2 years. all with both the 9;22 translocation and -7 appears to represent a unique and previously undescribed subgroup of childhood all associated with a particularly adverse outcome. leukemic transformation in such patients may involve the interaction of a dominant oncogene (ph1) and a tumor suppressor gene (-7).
prolapse of a neovagina created by self-dilatation. in patients with congenital absence of the vagina, a neovagina may be created by either operative or nonoperative techniques. a 25-year-old patient with a neovagina created by self-dilatation developed complete prolapse of the neovagina with an enterocele. a transabdominal sacral colpopexy successfully suspended the vaginal vault and allowed the patient to resume sexual function.
intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in familial polyposis coli: a case report of tumor regression by prednisolone therapy. a case of intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in familial polyposis coli (fpc), which regressed and disappeared by prednisolone treatment, is reported. a 37-year-old japanese man with abdominal lumps was admitted to our hospital. he had had proctocolectomy two years before because of fpc with rectal cancer. at laparotomy, tumors were present in the abdominal wall, mesentery, and retroperitoneum. only a small part of the tumors was resected and diagnosed microscopically to be desmoid tumors. with prednisolone administration (20 to 5 mg/day) subjective symptoms were ameliorated and desmoid tumors slowly regressed. bilateral hydronephrosis continued and resulted in "retroperitoneal fibrosis." to our knowledge, this case is the first well-documented case of retroperitoneal fibrosis in a patient with fpc. the characteristics of the desmoid tumor in familial polyposis coli or in gardner's syndrome and the methods for its management are discussed.
epidemiology of primary osteogenic sarcoma in the san francisco bay area of california. this epidemiologic study represents an analysis of all registered new cases of osteogenic sarcoma (ogs) during the 14-year period from january 1973 to december 1986 in five san francisco bay counties. inclusion into the study was limited to patients who were diagnosed in the first three decades of life and who were residents within the bay area at the time of diagnosis. to determine epidemiologic characteristics of ogs, records on 96 patients from the bay area resources for cancer control with histologically proven ogs were reviewed. the incidence of ogs was influenced by age, gender, and race, but none of the effects were statistically significant. a geographic variation in the incidence of ogs was discovered, although it was not statistically significant. the results are presented in support of a continued search for environmental variables that may someday reveal the etiologic factors of ogs.
detection of primary colorectal cancer with indium 111 monoclonal antibody b72.3. b72.3 is a murine monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin subclass igg1 directed against tag-72, a cell surface antigen present on colorectal carcinoma cells. we investigated the utility of scanning with indium 111-labeled b72.3 in 16 patients with a high clinical suspicion of or biopsy-proven primary colorectal cancer. each patient received 1 or 2 mg of b72.3 monoclonal antibody labeled with 152 mbq of indium 111. patients underwent scanning 2 to 3 days and 7 days after infusion by planar and emission computed tomography. nineteen lesions were confirmed in 12 patients. three patients with benign polyps had true-negative monoclonal antibody scans. indium 111-labeled imaging of b72.3 detected nine of 19 lesions. unsuspected tumor sites were identified by monoclonal antibody scan in three patients. by detection of additional abdominal disease and extra-abdominal spread, indium 111-labeled scanning of b72.3 directly affected treatment in 18% of patients.
effect of weight reduction on hepatic abnormalities in overweight patients. the effects of weight reduction on hepatic test results and physical findings related to the liver were retrospectively evaluated in 39 overweight patients screened to exclude other factors affecting the liver. an additional 11 overweight patients with primary liver disease were retrospectively evaluated to compare the effect of weight reduction in patients with liver disease with its effect in those without primary liver disease. this study showed that in overweight adults without primary liver disease, a weight reduction of greater than or equal to 10% corrected abnormal hepatic test results, decreased hepatosplenomegaly, and resolved some stigmata of liver disease. in similarly studied overweight patients with primary liver disease, some findings improved, but the changes did not correlate with a greater than or equal to 10% weight loss. increased alanine aminotransferase activity was the most frequent hepatic enzyme abnormality in this population. for every 1% reduction in body weight, alanine aminotransferase activity improved by 8.1%. after other causes of liver disease are eliminated by clinical and biochemical parameters, weight reduction should be tried for overweight patients with abnormal hepatic test results in the absence of obvious primary liver disease as judged by clinical and biochemical parameters before extensive and expensive studies are undertaken.
roseola infantum and other syndromes associated with acute hhv6 infection. eight cases of acute human herpesvirus type 6 (hhv6) infection in infants were diagnosed serologically by the demonstration of igm anti-hhv6 (8/8) and a significant change in total anti-hhv6 antibody titre (6/8). four infants were sufficiently ill to require admission to hospital and further investigations: one with encephalitis and three with gross hepatosplenomegaly, two of whom had evidence of simultaneous infection with another herpes-virus. the remaining four infants had an illness compatible with roseola infantum, although this diagnosis had not been made clinically. sera from two of those infants with rash had been sent for analysis to exclude rubella because the infants' mothers were pregnant. the other two had received antibiotics when febrile, and the subsequent appearance of the roseola rash had raised the possibility of antibiotic allergy. the data suggest that there are clinical syndromes in addition to roseola infantum associated with the presence of igm anti-hhv6, in which serological screening for evidence of acute hhv6 infection may be useful.
sudden death in young competitive athletes: clinicopathologic correlations in 22 cases. purpose: to investigate the pathologic substrates of sudden death in young competitive athletes. patients and methods: twenty-two cases of sudden death in young competitive athletes occurring in the veneto region (northern italy) in the period january 1979 to december 1989 were studied by postmortem examination. the athletes included 19 males and three females, ranging in age from 11 to 35 years (mean, 23 years). results: in 18 cases, sudden death occurred during (16 cases) or immediately after (two cases) a competitive sport activity. in 10 subjects, sudden death was apparently the first sign of disease. postmortem examination disclosed that this fatality was due to arrhythmic cardiac arrest in 17 cases; among these, right ventricular cardiomyopathy, also known as "right ventricular dysplasia," was the most frequently encountered cardiovascular disease (six cases), followed by atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (four cases), conduction system pathology (three cases), anomalous origin of right coronary artery from the wrong aortic sinus (two cases), and mitral valve prolapse (two cases). in two athletes, the abrupt lethal complication was "mechanical" and consisted of pulmonary embolism and rupture of the aorta; in three athletes, death was due to a cerebral cause. all athletes with right ventricular cardiomyopathy died during effort, and most had a history of palpitations and/or syncope. whenever available, electrocardiographic (ecg) tracings showed inverted t waves in precordial leads and/or left bundle branch block ventricular arrhythmias. conclusions: clinicopathologic correlations indicate that in the veneto region of italy, right ventricular cardiomyopathy is not so rare among the cardiovascular diseases associated with the risk of arrhythmic cardiac arrest, and seems to account for the majority of cases of sudden death in young athletes; this disorder can be suspected during life on the basis of prodromal symptoms and ecg signs.
bilateral impairment of somesthetically mediated object recognition in humans thirty adult patients (six in each of five groups--neurologically normal, lacunar infarct-related hemiparesis, unilateral thalamic lacunar infarction, right cortical infarction with mild left hemineglect, and extensive right cortical infarction with severe left hemineglect) were asked to perform various tasks that encompassed basic and intermediate somatosensory functions and tactile and visual object recognition. patients with thalamic and cortical infarctions had severe impairment of contralateral hand-mediated somatosensory functions in all three categories of somesthetic tasks, although patients with cortical infarction were more impaired on the object recognition task than were patients with thalamic infarction. patients with extensive damage to the right hemisphere and severe left hemineglect also had impairment of somesthetically mediated object recognition in the ipsilateral hand despite normal basic and intermediate somatosensory function and visually mediated object recognition analogous to unilateral tactile agnosia. all other groups had normal ipsilateral tactile object recognition.
extracorporeal photopheresis in psoriasis vulgaris: clinical and immunologic observations. four patients with chronic refractory plaque-type psoriasis without arthropathy were treated with extracorporeal photopheresis every other week for 6 to 13 months. in patients 1 and 2, methotrexate was administered concomitantly during the initial part of the trial; the dose was gradually tapered and the drug was discontinued by 6 months. both patients improved to 23% and 62% of baseline values for percentage of body surface involvement, but their disease then flared when maintenance extracorporeal photopheresis was used alone. substantial improvement again occurred when lower doses of methotrexate were administered with extracorporeal photopheresis. patients 3 and 4 were treated initially with extracorporeal photopheresis alone and both improved to 50% and 52% of baseline body surface involvement, respectively, after 4 months of treatment. however, their disease flared because of factors unrelated to treatment. extracorporeal photopheresis was well tolerated by all patients without evidence of overt toxicity. however, prolonged treatment with extracorporeal photopheresis/methotrexate was accompanied by a decrease in skin reactivity to recall antigens and by decreased capacity of lymphocytes to produce interleukin 2 in response to polyclonal stimuli in vitro. these findings indicate that alternate-week extracorporeal photopheresis has a definite but incomplete suppressive effect on psoriasis vulgaris that may be mediated through an effect on lymphokine production by photomodified cells and that the therapeutic effect of extracorporeal photopheresis may be enhanced by concomitant administration of low doses of methotrexate.
implication of specific dqb1 alleles in genetic susceptibility and resistance by identification of iddm siblings with novel hla-dqb1 allele and unusual dr2 and dr1 haplotypes. genetic susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm) is associated with the hla-dr3 and dr4 haplotypes. the hla-dr2 haplotype is negatively associated with iddm, an association that has been interpreted as dominant protection. here, we describe the molecular analysis of the hla class ii genes in an unusual family with three hla-dr1/2 siblings, all of whom have iddm. with polymerase chain reaction amplification and sequence analysis to characterize the class ii alleles, we identified a novel dqb1 allele on the dr1 haplotype and an unusual dqb1 allele on the dr2 haplotype. however, the drb1 alleles on these dr1 and dr2 haplotypes are the conventional alleles (*0101 and *1501, respectively). these results suggest that it is the conventional dqb1 allele (*0602) not the drb1 allele (*1501) on the protective dr2 haplotype that confers protection in the general population and, furthermore, that these unusual dqb1 alleles may confer susceptibility to iddm in this family. the unusual dqb1 allele on this dr2 haplotype encodes asp at position 57, indicating that it is the allele dqb1*0602 and not simply the presence of this residue that is responsible for the protective effect.
late volume changes in retrosternal colon bypass. esophageal obstruction by malignancy, chemical burns, or other less common entities presents a challenge for the surgeon. either for esophageal substitution after esophageal resection or as a bypass for the obstructed esophagus, colon interposition is often the best available option. massive colonic enlargement requiring resection of the interposed dilated colon developed recently in 2 of our patients who had a colon bypass 22 and 10 years earlier, respectively.
detection and quantitation of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction using a new video intensity technique for regional wall motion evaluation. eighty patients with ischemic heart disease and 17 normal subjects were evaluated for left ventricular regional wall motion by means of a new method. the wall motion analysis is based on video intensity. this technique uses a temporally sliding analysis to evaluate the cardiac cycle in 100 msec intervals. presence of coronary artery disease was defined as more than 50% measured diameter stenosis. wall motion abnormalities in regions perfused by stenotic vessels were most common in early diastole (76%). sensitivity of this method at rest in patients with coronary artery disease was 79.7% (p less than 0.0001) and overall accuracy was 84.2% (p less than 0.0001). abnormalities in both systole and diastole were more common in regions perfused by severe lesions (greater than 75%) than in those perfused by moderately stenotic (less than 75%) vessels (p less than 0.05). a comparison of the new method with phase and amplitude analysis was performed in 15 patients and with two-frame analysis in 40 patients. this new method yielded a higher sensitivity than either of the other two methods.
perioperative arrhythmias after fontan repair. arrhythmias are well-recognized sequelae of the fontan repair. a prospective analysis of perioperative arrhythmias after fontan repair was performed. thirty-three patients had 24-hour ambulatory monitoring on the day before surgery and for 24 hours immediately after surgery; the 27 surviving patients had an additional 24-hour study on the seventh postoperative day. the most common preoperative rhythm was normal sinus, which was present in 79%. hemodynamically significant preoperative arrhythmias were present in only two patients-atrial flutter (n = 1) and complete heart block (n = 1). other asymptomatic preoperative arrhythmias included ectopic atrial rhythm (n = 2), supraventricular tachycardia (n = 1), accelerated junctional rhythm (n = 1), and frequent ventricular premature beats (n = 1). on the first postoperative day, the most common rhythm was accelerated junctional rhythm, which was present in 48%. hemodynamically significant arrhythmias were present in nine patients (27%) -rapid accelerated junctional rhythm (rate, greater than 190 beats/min) (n = 3), complete heart block (n = 2), atrial flutter (n = 2), supraventricular tachycardia (n = 1), and ventricular tachycardia (n = 1). three of six deaths occurring between postoperative days 2 and 7 were in patients with rapid accelerated junctional rhythm and associated low cardiac output. on the seventh postoperative day, the most common rhythm was normal sinus, which was present in 41%. nine of the 27 surviving patients had complete resolution of their arrhythmias between postoperative days 2 and 7. on postoperative day 7, hemodynamically significant arrhythmias were present in four patients-atrial flutter (n = 2) and complete heart block (n = 2).
use of a central 10 degrees field and size v stimulus to evaluate and monitor small central islands of vision in end stage glaucoma. in a retrospective review of 24 clinically stable eyes with small central islands of vision due to end stage glaucoma the combined use of a central 10 degrees program and size v stimulus (10-2 with v) measured visual function undetected on a central 30 degrees field tested with both the standard size iii and non-standard size v stimuli. furthermore, the mean sensitivity of the 10-2 with v remained stable on serial field testing (mean 3.9 examinations) on long term follow-up (mean 22.2 months). this study suggests that in end stage glaucoma the size v target is the stimulus of choice and a central 10 degrees field may be the program of choice of evaluating and monitoring small central islands of vision.
synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum. reports on the incidence of synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum have varied from 2 to 11 per cent. the variability is a result of a lack of uniformity in criteria of diagnosis, differences in the population studied and differences in time period used. in this study, we evaluated the incidence and distribution of synchronous lesions during a recent time period before the use of colonoscopy became widespread. we reviewed the records of all patients with newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum who were operated upon at our institution between 1976 and 1981. in a total group of 1,000 patients of which 52 per cent were men, there were 54 patients or 5.4 per cent who had synchronous carcinomas. the group of patients with synchronous carcinomas were older than the group with nonsynchronous carcinomas (72.4 versus 68.8 years). there was also a higher incidence of associated benign polyps in the group with synchronous carcinomas (70 versus 30 per cent for a nonsynchronous carcinomas). the anatomic distribution of carcinomas of the colon and rectum in the group with synchronous lesions (111 in total) revealed a higher percentage of carcinomas located on the right side (29.7 versus 22.5 per cent), although the difference did not reach statistical significance. synchronous carcinomas were located in nonadjacent segments of the colon in 37 per cent. there was no difference in stage between the groups with and without synchronous carcinomas. the preoperative identification of synchronous lesions by either colonoscopy or barium enema is important for the proper treatment of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum. failure to locate these tumors may lead to the demise of the patient.
a controlled trial of clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05% in the treatment of experimentally induced rhus dermatitis. we studied the effectiveness of clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05% in experimentally induced rhus dermatitis. clobetasol rapidly decreased the vesiculation at each treated site, although the effect was most prominent at the site to which clobetasol was applied the earliest, that is, at 12 hours after exposure to rhus extract. on the basis of this experimental model, clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05% may be effective therapy for naturally occurring rhus dermatitis.
full recovery after a chloroquine suicide attempt. the nonfatal case of a 20 year-old woman who ingested 6 grams of chloroquine in a suicide attempt is reported. after initial ventricular fibrillation, she rapidly developed a pulmonary edema with cardiogenic shock. she was successfully treated with diazepam, epinephrine, dobutamine and mechanical ventilation. plasma chloroquine levels showed an initial peak of 36 micrograms/ml. the patient was discharged fully recovered after 19 days. the interaction between chloroquine and diazepam is discussed, as is the need for careful management of epinephrine therapy.
gastroesophageal reflux and sclerotherapy strictures. the development of esophageal stricture is common following endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (evs). gastroesophageal reflux may be at least partly responsible. twelve randomly selected male patients underwent chronic evs for the management of bleeding esophageal varices. six patients developed strictures during or after evs, six did not. there were no significant differences between stricture and nonstricture patients during 24 hour esophageal ph monitoring. three of the six stricture patients and four of the six nonstricture patients had an abnormal amount of reflux. gastroesophageal reflux occurs frequently in patients undergoing evs, and it is not likely to play a major role in evs stricture formation.
clinical recognition and evaluation of peptic ulcer disease. when a patient has epigastric pain that worsens 1 to 3 hours after meals, the possibility of peptic ulcer disease should be considered. completely typical clinical presentations in patients younger than age 50 justify empirical therapy when no physical or laboratory findings suggest a mimicking disorder. esophagogastroduodenoscopy should be undertaken when response to therapy is incomplete, symptoms recur quickly, or dyspeptic symptoms present for the first time in a patient older than age 50. when gastric ulcers are diagnosed radiographically, endoscopy and biopsy at multiple sites should be done to exclude malignant disease. intractable duodenal ulcers may necessitate endoscopic biopsy of antral and duodenal mucosa to rule out an associated helicobacter pylori infection, which may modify therapeutic approaches. zollinger-ellison syndrome is rare but should be suspected when ulcer disease presents atypically or aggressively or in families. diagnosis is not difficult to confirm.
efficacy of ephedrine in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. although reported in the aerospace literature and anecdotally by anesthesiologists, the putative antiemetic effect of ephedrine remains unquantitated. we therefore prospectively studied ephedrine as an antiemetic agent in the perioperative setting in 97 patients undergoing general anesthesia for outpatient gynecologic laparoscopy. patients were assigned in a double-blind randomized fashion to receive a standardized general anesthetic followed by an intramuscular dose of either ephedrine (0.5 mg/kg), droperidol (0.04 mg/kg), or saline before the conclusion of surgery. nausea, retching, or vomiting, as well as the degree of sedation and discharge times, were assessed in the recovery room and for 24 h postoperatively. ephedrine was found to have a significantly antiemetic effect (p less than 0.05) when compared with placebo and an antiemetic effect similar to that of droperidol. sedation scores were also significantly less in the ephedrine group than in both placebo and droperidol groups. finally, variations in mean arterial blood pressure among the three groups were not statistically significant. we conclude that ephedrine is an effective antiemetic agent with minimal sedative side effects in patients undergoing outpatient laparoscopy.
bone marrow necrosis in leukemic-phase follicular lymphoma. bone marrow necrosis has been regarded as a rare entity in specimens obtained from living patients and has been associated with a poor prognosis. it is most commonly found in patients with neoplastic disorders, severe infections, and sickle cell anemia. we present an unusual case of a small-cleaved type follicular lymphoma associated with bone marrow necrosis and a leukemic phase occurring in a 55-year-old woman. specimens were studied by morphologic, immunohistochemical, cytogenetic, and dna hybridization techniques.
adipsic hypernatremia in two sisters. we describe two sisters with chronic hypernatremia, lack of thirst, and inappropriate osmoregulated vasopressin secretion. only one sister, who presented with microcephaly and developmental delay, showed signs of dysplasia of the midline structures (ie, septum pellucidum and corpus callosum) and a large intracranial cyst. neither sister showed any signs of thirst, even when osmolality exceeded 337 mmol/kg. in both patients, the vasopressin secretion did not respond to either osmotic or nonosmotic stimuli or was suppressed by a water load. plasma osmolality values returned to normal after treatment with forced hydration and a vasopressin analogue, desamino-d-arginine vasopressin. these findings indicate a severe defect in the hypothalamic osmoreceptors that control thirst and vasopressin secretion. to our knowledge, this is the first report of such a disorder in two sisters.
giardiasis [published erratum appears in prim care 1991 jun;18(2):following xii] giardiasis represents a major protozoan infection for the 1990s. this article reviews this organism for the primary care physician, discussing the characteristics, clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment. prevention and patient education needs are also presented.
early and late tamponade with the novacor left ventricular assist system. cardiac tamponade can be a major complication after implantation of the novacor left ventricular assist system (lvas). between 1987 and 1989, 14 patients received an lvas as a bridge to cardiac transplantation: 3 developed early tamponade (33 +/- 12 hr postoperatively) and 5 were diagnosed with a late tamponade (9.4 +/- 3.2 days postoperatively). one patient had both early and late tamponade. early tamponade was more common in those with increased perioperative blood loss (5,270 +/- 1,942 ml vs. 1,420 +/- 1,160 ml in other patients, p less than 0.05). early tamponade was suggested by reduction in mean arterial pressure (74 +/- 1 to 64 +/- 3 mmhg), lvas output (5 +/- 0.5 to 2.7 +/- 0.7 l/min), lvas stroke volume (55 +/- 4 to 23 +/- 5 ml), and an increase in central venous pressure (13 +/- 1 to 21 +/- 1 mmhg, p less than 0.05 for all values). late tamponade was associated with a marked rise in central venous pressure (14 +/- 1 to 22 +/- 2 mmhg, p less than 0.05), with only a mild decrease in lvas output (4.9 +/- 1 to 3.8 +/- 0.9 l/min) and stroke volume (49 +/- 8 to 36 +/- 3 ml), without a significant change in mean arterial pressure. two of these five late episodes occurred in patients who were anticoagulated with heparin (ptt 52 and 100 sec), and in one other with warfarin (pt 27 sec, ptt 55 sec); two patients were not on any anticoagulants. surgical drainage of pericardial effusions, and especially of clotted blood found frequently posterior to the left ventricle in the space created by the lvas decompressed left ventricle, resulted in an immediate return of all hemodynamic measurements to normal in both early and late tamponade.
localization of dna sequences to a region within xp11.21 between incontinentia pigmenti (ip1) x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints. incontinentia pigmenti (ip) is an x-linked dominant disorder characterized by developmental anomalies of the tissues and organs derived from embryonic ectoderm and neuroectoderm. an ip locus, designated ip1, probably resides in xp11.21, since five unrelated patients with nonfamilial ip have been identified who possess constitutional de novo reciprocal x;autosome translocations involving xp11.21. we have used a series of somatic cell hybrids containing the rearranged chromosomes derived from three of the five ip1 patients, along with other hybrid cell lines, to map probes in the vicinity of the ip1 locus. five anonymous dna loci--dxs422, dxs14, dxs343, dxs429, and dxs370--have been mapped to a region within xp11.21, between two ip1 x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints; the ip1 t(x;17) breakpoint is proximal (centromeric) to this region, and the ip1 t(x;13) and t(x;9) x-chromosomal breakpoints lie distal to it. while no ip1 translocation breakpoint has yet been identified by pulsed-field gel electrophoretic (pfge) analysis, an overlap between three probes--p58-1, 7psh3.5, and cpx210--has been detected, placing these probes within 125 kb. four probes--p58-1, 7psh3.5, cpx210, and 30ce2.8--have been helpful in constructing a 1,250-kb pfge map of the region between the breakpoints; these results suggest that the ip1 x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints are separated by at least this distance. the combined somatic cell hybrid and pfge analyses we report here favor the probe order dxs323-(ip1 t(x;13), ip1, t(x;9]-(dxs422, dxs14, dxs343, dxs429, dxs370)-(ip1 t(x;17), dxz1). these sequences provide a starting point for identifying overlapping genomic sequences that span the ip1 translocation breakpoints; the availability of ip1 translocation breakpoints should now assist the cloning of this locus.
the role of cholecystokinin in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis in the isolated pancreas preparation. in a variety of animal models of acute pancreatitis, cholecystokinin-receptor antagonists have ameliorated the injury response. these results suggest that cholecystokinin may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of pancreatitis initiated by multiple stimuli. in an effort to test this theory, a sensitive and high affinity cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist l364,718 was administered to four different models of acute pancreatitis that were produced in the ex vivo perfused canine pancreas preparation. the four models of pancreatitis were initiated by cerulein infusion, partial duct obstruction with secretin stimulation, oleic acid infusion, and a 2-hour period of ischemia. in each model, pancreatitis was manifest by edema formation, weight gain, and hyperamylasemia during a 4-hour perfusion. in cerulein infusion-induced pancreatitis l364,718 inhibited edema formation and weight gain (31 +/- 5 gm versus 7 +/- 6 gm; p less than 0.05) and significantly decreased plasma amylase activity (36,605 +/- 21,216 u/dl versus 9421 +/- 5149 u/dl; p less than 0.05). the acute pancreatitis induced by the other three stimuli was not ameliorated by l364,718 treatment. we conclude that in the ex vivo-perfused canine pancreas preparation cerulein-induced pancreatitis is mediated at least in part by the cholecystokinin receptor. early blockade of the cholecystokinin receptor was of no benefit in treating the other models of pancreatitis, suggesting that cholecystokinin is not involved in the early pathogenesis.
outcomes of pregnancies among women and partners of men with a history of exposure to methoxsalen photochemotherapy (puva) for the treatment of psoriasis. because oral methoxsalen and uv-a radiation (puva) therapy is mutagenic, concern exists about the potential for teratogenic effects resulting from the use of this therapy at the time of conception and during pregnancy. after 12.8 years of prospective study, we documented the pregnancy outcomes among 1380 patients (892 men and 488 women) who received puva treatments. ninety-four men reported 167 pregnancies in their partners, and 93 women reported 159 pregnancies. for 34% of pregnancies among partners of male patients, the man received puva therapy near the time of conception. nineteen percent of female patients reported exposure to puva at the time of conception or during pregnancy. induced and spontaneous abortions were reported as the outcome of pregnancy more often by female than by male patients (12% vs 30%). two congenital malformations and two stillbirths occurred, an incidence not significantly different from that expected for the general population. although the power of our study to detect an increase in the risk of specific defects is limited, our data show no evidence to suggest that puva is a potent teratogen. still, because puva is mutagenic, we believe it prudent for patients to avoid puva treatment during pregnancy whenever practical.
which clinical variables predict an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result? objective: to determine the relations among patient history, symptoms, objective indicators, and abnormal double-contrast barium enema results in outpatients. patients and setting: seven hundred and ninety-four patients receiving care in a large multispecialty medical group. design: physicians completed a form before ordering a double-contrast barium enema, listing information about patient history, symptoms, and objective findings, including the results of a complete blood count, stool hemoccult, and sigmoidoscopy. measurements and main results: outcome measures were colon cancer and any abnormal finding. the results of 18.6% of the barium enemas were abnormal. the most frequent positive findings were of polyps (8.8%) and colon cancer (2.9%). over 50% of the barium enemas were ordered solely on the basis of symptoms, yet there was no statistical correlation between symptoms and colon cancer or any positive finding. using logistic regression, four variables were shown to be significant predictors of colon cancer (p less than 0.05): abnormal sigmoidoscopy, iron deficiency anemia, positive stool hemoccult results, and relevant history. the respective odds ratios of these variables were 3.76 (95% ci, 2.89 to 4.90); 2.86 (ci, 2.13 to 3.74); 1.87 (ci, 1.46 to 2.39); and 1.91 (ci, 1.44 to 2.52), respectively. in a patient without any of these indicators, the predicted probability of having colon cancer was only 0.7%. in a patient with at least two objective indicators, the probability of having colon cancer was greater than 15%. conclusions: symptoms without objective indicators or pertinent risk factors do not correlate with an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result. objective indicators are useful predictors of an abnormal barium enema result, particularly when looking for colon cancer.
life-threatening complications during anaesthesia in a patient with a ventriculo-atrial shunt and pulmonary hypertension [published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar;46(3):241] a 6-year-old patient with hydrocephalus who underwent revision of a ventriculo-atrial shunt is described. anaesthesia was complicated by the occurrence of systemic hypertension and arterial hypoxaemia. the patient was subsequently found to have pulmonary hypertension secondary to recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism. the pathophysiological mechanisms for the patient's deterioration are discussed and the anaesthetic management of children with pulmonary hypertension is outlined. it is concluded that patients with a ventriculo-atrial shunt who present for surgery should be screened carefully for the presence of pulmonary hypertension.
transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis after m-vac (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) chemotherapy. the m-vac (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. we report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with m-vac. review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique, and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with m-vac may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases. carcinomatous meningitis, although rare, is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated. however, prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status. we review the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis.
physiologic peripheral pulmonic stenosis in infancy. we studied 14 premature infants with the clinical diagnosis of peripheral pulmonic stenosis (pps) and 15 normal full-term neonates by echocardiographic doppler examinations. the pps group had an average main pulmonary artery (pa) diameter similar to the control group (0.91 vs 0.96 cm, difference not significant), but had smaller branch pa diameters: right pa = 0.41 vs 0.50 cm, p less than 0.001, and left pa = 0.41 vs 0.49 cm, p less than 0.001. the pps group also had greater peak velocities in the main pa (76 vs 63 cm/s, p less than 0.05), right pa (193 vs 118 cm/s, p less than 0.001) and left pa (187 vs 123 cm/s, p less than 0.001). similarly, the ratio of peak velocity in the branch/main pa was greater for the pps group: right/main pa peak velocity = 2.91 vs 1.92, p less than 0.01, and left/main pa peak velocity = 2.73 vs 1.99, p less than 0.05. the calculated right ventricular output for the pps group was more than the control group: 437 vs 261 ml/min/kg, p less than 0.001. hematocrits were not done on the control group, but the pps group had an average hematocrit which was low (34%). it is concluded that patients with pps have mild underdevelopment of the pa branches, with consequent increased flow velocity and turbulent flow. this turbulent flow may be contributed to by increased cardiac output and mild anemia.
hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas in a patient with hepatitis a. hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas were found in a 30-year-old patient with serologically confirmed hepatitis a. other causes associated with the presence of fibrin-ring granulomas in the liver, such as hodgkin's and non-hodgkin's lymphoma, cytomegalovirus infection, visceral leishmaniasis, and consumption of allopurinol, were ruled out. it is suggested that hepatitis a must be included in the differential diagnosis of a patient with hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas.
elevated plasma endothelin-1 concentrations are associated with the severity of illness in patients with sepsis. plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay in 11 septic patients during the first 24 hours after the development of the sepsis syndrome in 15 nonseptic postoperative patients studied 24 hours after open heart surgery and in 14 healthy volunteers. mean endothelin-1 plasma concentrations were significantly (p less than 0.001) increased in septic patients (19.9 +/- 2.2 pg/ml, mean +/- standard error) compared to concentrations found in postoperative cardiac patients (11.9 +/- 0.7 pg/ml) or in healthy volunteers (6.1 +/- 0.3 pg/ml). in septic patients elevated plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 were inversely correlated with cardiac index (r = -0.80, p less than 0.005) and positively correlated the severity of illness as documented by apache ii score (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01) and plasma creatinine levels (r = 0.80, p less than 0.005). no such correlations were found in postoperative cardiac patients. these results indicate that endothelin-1 concentrations are correlated with the severity of illness and depression of cardiac output in patients with sepsis.
determinants of cell type in patients with cancer of the lungs. in order to evaluate the determinants of cell type in patients with primary lung cancer, we compared smoking characteristics in 1,939 patients (1,474 men and 465 women). patients with squamous cell carcinomas, adenocarcinomas, or small-cell carcinomas were eligible. this study did not consider smoking as a risk factor for lung cancer, as all subjects had a confirmed diagnosis. we were interested in smoking history and the pattern of smoking among those whose risk was 100 percent. among these patients, we confirmed that a larger subset of nonsmoking individuals developed adenocarcinomas than squamous cell or small-cell carcinomas; however, the duration and intensity of cigarette smoking, as measured by pack-years, were not determinants of tumor cell type in male patients. small-cell carcinomas in women were more strongly associated with cigarette smoking than either squamous cell carcinomas or adenocarcinomas. more than 3,500 different substances have been measured in tobacco smoke, including tumor initiators, promoters, and those involved in tumor progression. these data confirm the hypothesis that factors other than cigarette smoking are more likely to be involved in the initiation of adenocarcinomas than other cell types. endogenous and exogenous factors related to gender may be more important than the duration or intensity of cigarette smoking.
chylous drainage from a stab wound to the neck. a 24-year-old man was assaulted and sustained a stab wound to the left lower neck. when he arrived at the emergency department, he was hemodynamically stable. although the wound had penetrated the platysma, on initial evaluation the patient did not appear to have sustained significant injury. closer examination of the wound revealed chylous drainage, indicating injury to the cervical portion of the thoracic duct. the patient was taken to the operating room for exploration of the wound, during which an injury to the left internal jugular vein was identified and repaired. the thoracic duct, which had been severed, was ligated. the remainder of the patient's hospital course was unremarkable. the consistent association between penetrating injury to the cervical portion of the thoracic duct and injury to neighboring vascular structures is discussed.
pathogenetic role of helicobacter pylori in duodenal ulcer disease. multivariate analysis of factors affecting relapse. the pathogenesis of duodenal ulcer disease is multifactorial and the contribution of helicobacter pylori in relation to the other factors to the release of duodenal ulcer is unknown. to investigate this, we studied 147 patients with endoscopically proven healed ulcers. these patients were randomized to receive either placebo, misoprostol 200 micrograms or misoprostol 300 micrograms four times daily, and clinical, personal, physiological and endoscopic characteristics were obtained prospectively. endoscopy was performed at the active phase of the ulcer and when the ulcer healed. biopsies were taken from the antrum to assess histologically for: (1) the activity of gastritis as assessed by the degree of polymorph infiltration, (2) the degree of chronic inflammation by the degree of chronic inflammatory cells infiltration and degree of mucosal degeneration, and (3) bacteriologically for the presence of h. pylori. the severity of the gastritis and the bacterial density were graded independently by two pathologists. the patients were assessed at two-month intervals for 12 months or until the ulcer relapsed. the results demonstrated that the relapse rates of duodenal ulcer were similar in the three treatment groups. the relapse rate was higher in the group with higher density of the bacteria (p less than 0.05). the degree of gastritis did not affect the relapse rate of duodenal ulcer in either the placebo or misoprostol group or in all patients combined. stepwise logistic regression analysis identified that increased duodenal inflammation, male sex, early-onset disease, and h. pylori adversely affected relapse of the ulcer. we conclude that multiple factors affect the relapse of duodenal ulcer and h. pylori is one of them.
doppler diagnostics, indications, and control of surgical treatment in patients with carotid pathology. major stroke is a relatively common cause of death or disabling invalidism in patients with atherosclerosis. in a large percentage of cases it is caused by stenotic/thrombotic processes in carotid arteries and this emphasizes the importance of the problem of early diagnosis and treatment of carotid pathology. recently doppler sonography has become a leading non-invasive method of early screening of stenotic processes in carotid arteries. the aim of the present study was to ascertain the diagnostic abilities of doppler sonography for screening of carotid pathology, assessment of extra-cranial and intracranial hemodynamics, defining of indications, and control of vascular reconstructions of carotids.
lymphoscintigraphy with 123i-labelled epidermal growth factor we have used 123i-labelled epidermal growth factor (egf) scans to study 14 patients with advanced cervical cancer. abnormal lymph node imaging was seen most clearly 6-8 h after the injection and revealed abnormal uptake by pelvic lymph nodes in 11 patients. 4 of these 11 had abnormal computerised tomographic and ultrasound scans; in the other 7 conventional radiology did not confirm the presence of disease.
effect of a short course of prednisone in the prevention of early relapse after the emergency room treatment of acute asthma. background. relapse after the treatment of acute asthma in the emergency room is common (occurring in 25 to 30 percent of cases) and is not accurately predicted by any available measurements. we studied the usefulness of prednisone in reducing this high rate of relapse. methods. one hundred twenty-two patients treated in the emergency room for acute exacerbations of asthma were assigned in a randomized, double-blind fashion to receive at discharge either prednisone for eight days (the dose being tapered from 40 to 0 mg per day) or matching placebo. ninety-three were subsequently discharged from the emergency room and participated in the trial. on days 1, 7, and 14 after discharge, the patients were assessed during home visits with spirometry and diary-card review; they were contacted by telephone on day 21. relapse was defined as an unscheduled medical visit occasioned by the patient's perceived need for further asthma treatment. results. the overall risk of relapse was significantly lower in the prednisone group (p less than 0.05), with a significantly reduced rate of relapse during the first 10 days of follow-up (3 of 48, as compared with 11 of 45 in the placebo group; p less than 0.05). thereafter (days 11 through 21), there was no further significant difference in relapse rates between treatment groups (five in the prednisone group and six in the placebo group). during the first week after discharge, patients receiving prednisone reported significantly lower mean (+/- sd) daily symptom scores for shortness of breath (1.4 +/- 0.4 vs. 2.5 +/- 0.4, p less than 0.01) and less frequent use of an inhaled bronchodilator (5.2 +/- 0.5 vs. 6.9 +/- 0.2 puffs per day, p less than 0.05) than patients receiving placebo. subsequently, symptom scores and bronchodilator use were similar in the two groups. conclusions. a short course of prednisone reduced early relapse rates after the treatment of acute asthma in the emergency room, an effect limited to the period of steroid administration.
effect of left ventricular aneurysm on risk of sudden and nonsudden cardiac death. although left ventricular (lv) aneurysm is associated with increased mortality, its independent prognostic significance is controversial. to determine the effect of lv aneurysm on risk, 121 patients with healed myocardial infarction (mi), 55 manifesting akinesia on ventriculography (mi group) and 66 with lv aneurysm characterized by diastolic deformity (eccentricity) and systolic dyskinesia (lv aneurysm group) were studied. at a mean follow-up of 5.7 years, there were 32 cardiac deaths (12 mi vs 20 lv aneurysm), including 9 sudden deaths (1 mi vs 8 lv aneurysm). multivariate analysis revealed decreasing ejection fraction to be the best predictor of total cardiac death, and revascularization to be protective. nonsudden cardiac death was predicted by ejection fraction, absence of revascularization and right coronary artery disease, whereas sudden cardiac death was predicted by lv aneurysm and the frequency of ventricular ectopic complexes on holter monitoring. in the mi group, ejection fraction was the only significant predictor of total cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death. in the lv aneurysm group, total cardiac death, as well as nonsudden cardiac death, were predicted by ejection fraction, ventricular tachycardia and right coronary artery disease, whereas ventricular tachycardia predicted sudden cardiac death. it is concluded that the risk profile for total cardiac death differs between lv aneurysm and mi patients, and that lv aneurysm constitutes an independent predictor of late sudden cardiac death after mi. moreover, on a substrate of lv aneurysm, the risk factors for sudden cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death differ, with ventricular tachycardia being the sole predictor of sudden cardiac death. furthermore, holter monitoring is valuable in identifying patients at persistent risk of sudden cardiac death.
oncogene amplification in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. cellular oncogenes appear to be involved in the control of normal cell growth and differentiation. the abnormal activation of these genes in naturally occurring and experimentally induced cancers may have an important role in the expression of the malignant phenotype in cancer cells. mechanisms for the activation of these genes include chromosomal translocation, point mutation, and dna amplification. the amplification of specific oncogenes correlates with clinical prognosis in several human malignancies, including breast cancer and neuroblastoma. we examined 21 fresh-frozen human squamous cell carcinomas of the aerodigestive tract for amplification of 10 known cellular oncogenes (c-myc, n-myc, l-myc, n-ras, h-ras, k-ras, erb-b, erb-b2, raf, and int-2), using southern blotting techniques. eleven of 21 tumors demonstrated a two-fold to 11-fold amplification of the int-2 oncogene, one member of a family of genes related to basic fibroblast growth factor. amplification of c-myc, a gene that codes for a dna-binding protein involved in the regulation of cell growth, was seen in two tumors. none of the other eight genes studied were amplified in any of the tumor specimens.
enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improves cardiac function in hypoxic rabbit ventricle without increasing total glycolytic flux. the effects of elevated glucose on cardiac function during hypoxia were investigated in isolated arterially perfused rabbit interventricular septa. rest tension, developed tension, intracellular potential, 42k+ efflux, lactate production, exogenous glucose utilization, and tissue high-energy phosphate levels were measured during a 50-min period of hypoxia with 4, 5, or 50 mm glucose present (isosmotically balanced with sucrose) and during reoxygenation for 60 min with perfusate containing 5 mm glucose/45 mm sucrose. at physiologic (4 or 5 mm) and supraphysiologic glucose (50 mm), lactate production and high-energy phosphate levels during hypoxia were equally well maintained, yet cardiac dysfunction was markedly attenuated by 50 mm glucose. despite identical rates of total glycolytic flux, exogenous glucose utilization was enhanced by 50 mm glucose so that tissue glycogen levels remained normal during hypoxia, whereas glycogen became depleted with 4 or 5 mm glucose present during hypoxia. most of the beneficial effects of 50 mm glucose occurred during the first 25 min of hypoxia. prior glycogen depletion had no deleterious effects during hypoxia with 50 mm glucose present, but exacerbated cardiac dysfunction during hypoxia with 5 mm glucose present. these findings indicate that enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improved cardiac function during hypoxia without increasing total glycolytic flux or tissue high-energy phosphate levels, suggesting a novel cardioprotective mechanism.
enteroglucagon and peptide y-y response after construction of a pelvic reservoir in humans. the results of an investigation of plasma levels of gastrointestinal hormones in patients after the construction of a pelvic reservoir are reported. enteroglucagon (eg) and peptide tyrosine-tyrosine (pyy), two hormones believed to play a relevant role in the adaptive response to bowel resection, were investigated using a specific radioimmunoassay in basal conditions and after a standard meal. pouch patients showed a statistically significant increase in basal levels of both enteroglucagon and pyy compared with control subjects (p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.001, respectively). the response of enteroglucagon to food ingestion, evaluated by means of the total integrated response, was similar in patients and controls. conversely, the response of pyy was significantly increased in pouch patients compared with control cases (p less than 0.02). results of this investigation suggest that gut hormones may be involved in mediating the adaptive response of the intestine to pouch construction. changes of gut peptides may explain, at least in part, the functional results observed after pouch construction.
gallbladder perforation and bile leakage: percutaneous treatment. three patients with spontaneous gallbladder perforation and one with an iatrogenic bile leak causing bile peritonitis were treated successfully by means of percutaneous catheter drainage. three patients had cholelithiasis as the cause of perforation; the fourth patient had previously undergone gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether lavage and developed bile peritonitis a few hours after removal of the catheter. in three patients, a percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter provided successful decompression; in the fourth patient, drainage was performed with a percutaneous sump catheter in the subhepatic space adjacent to the gallbladder. no specific complications occurred. follow-up was performed at 1, 12, 22, and 59 months, respectively. to date, one of the four patients has undergone elective cholecystectomy (1 month after drainage). the remainder of the patients are asymptomatic. this preliminary experience suggests that the severe complication of gallbladder perforation and bile leakage may be treated, at least temporarily, by means of percutaneous drainage.
what is the best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and sudden death after myocardial infarction? background. death during the first year after myocardial infarction is most commonly due to spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (vt) or fibrillation (vf). the purpose of this study was to compare, in a single cohort of patients, the values of inducible vt, delayed ventricular activation, low left ventricular ejection fraction, high-grade ventricular ectopy, and st segment displacement on exercise in predicting electrical events (witnessed instantaneous death and spontaneous vt or vf) during the first year after myocardial infarction. methods and results. three hundred sixty one patients aged less than 71 years underwent electrophysiological study, signal-averaged electrocardiogram, gated blood-pool scan, 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, and exercise testing 1-2 weeks after myocardial infarction and were then followed up for at least 1 year. there were 34 deaths (eight witnessed instantaneous, 26 other), and nine patients survived one or more episodes of spontaneous vf or vt. patients with inducible vt were 15.2 times more likely to suffer electrical events than patients without inducible vt. no proportional-hazards model excluding inducible vt was as good a predictor of electrical events as was inducible vt alone. conclusions. inducible vt at electrophysiological study was the single best predictor of spontaneous vt and sudden death after myocardial infarction.
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in dengue fever. twenty-six virologically and serologically confirmed dengue patients with signs of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding (13.1%) were studied during the 1987 outbreak in southern taiwan. within a 1-yr period from 1987 to 1988 in kaohsiung chang gung memorial hospital, there were 198 patients with dengue fever confirmed. viral isolation and serological studies indicated that type i dengue was the cause. there was no evidence of sequential secondary infection among them. the 26 patients were evaluated gastroduodenoscopically. most of the dengue patients who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding had gastric ulcers or duodenal ulcers; superficial and hemorrhagic gastritis are the other relevant endoscopic findings. thirteen patients (50%) had a past history of peptic ulcer symptoms, whereas the other 13 did not. dengue infection is a precipitating factor in inducing peptic ulcer bleeding because of hemostatic derangements. supportive therapy and blood transfusions alone were adequate treatment, except for one patient who required surgery due to massive bleeding of a duodenal ulcer. no mortality was observed in this study.
intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus infection in patients with aids. intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection in patients with aids is the most common life-threatening condition requiring emergency celiotomy in these patients. the authors describe a patient with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection, and review 14 additional cases reported in the english-language surgical literature. the diagnostic triad of pneumoperitoneum on x-ray, evidence or history of cmv infection, and aids occurred in 70 percent of patients. the most common site of intestinal perforation was the colon (53 percent), followed in frequency by the distal ileum (40 percent) and appendix (7 percent); perforation usually occurred between the distal ileum and splenic flexure of the colon. colonoscopy, rather than sigmoidoscopy, is recommended as a screening examination in patients with aids suspected of having colonic ulceration due to cmv infection. multiple biopsies of ulcerated tissue should be obtained. gross and microscopic analyses of involved intestinal tissue reveal the characteristic findings of ulceration and cmv infection. despite aggressive therapy, the operative mortality rate in patients with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection was 54 percent and the overall mortality rate was 87 percent. postoperative complications occurred in most patients and consisted mainly of systemic sepsis and pneumonia caused by pneumocystis carinii infection. an increased awareness of this syndrome by physicians frequently called on to manage patients with aids is recommended.
the pharmacology of aspirin, heparin, coumarin, and thrombolytic agents. implications for therapeutic use in cardiopulmonary disease. the modern treatment of cardiopulmonary disease is increasingly predicated on the goal of dissolving the offending clot to establish vascular patency as rapidly as possible and then preventing rethrombosis. the availability of thrombolytic agents has made this therapeutic approach possible and the adjunctive use of heparin, coumarin, and aspirin has increased the efficacy of lytic drugs. the administration of any of these medications is associated with inherent risks, which are enhanced when they are used concomitantly. an understanding of coagulation and an appreciation of the pathophysiologic processes of the thrombotic events occurring in cardiopulmonary disease states are critical to the formulation of innovative therapeutic regimens that maximize efficacy and safety. furthermore, knowledge of the comparative pharmacology of the various thrombolytic agents is useful in explaining the benefits and complications observed in clinical trials.
characteristics of biliary lipid metabolism after liver transplantation. biliary lipid metabolism was studied after 10 liver transplantations with continuous drainage of bile. within 3 wk after transplantation, the new liver produced bile with concentrations of biliary lipids in agreement with those reported for t-tube bile in cholecystectolized nontransplanted subjects. although changes in biliary lipid composition occurred swiftly in response to various forms of disturbed liver function, they did not provide substantially more information than did standard serum tests or simple measurements of bile flow in most patients. secretion rates of phospholipids and cholesterol were found to be completely bile acid dependent. for each micromole of bile acids, 0.22 and 0.08 mumol of phospholipids and cholesterol were secreted, respectively. when bile flow was related to bile acid output, a linear relationship was found (r = 0.89), with a positive intercept indicating a bile acid-independent bile flow of approximately 44 microliters/min. analysis of individual bile acids showed almost exclusively primary bile acids. the relative proportion of chenodeoxycholic acid was more prominent during the first days after transplantation. different explanations for this are discussed.
multilevel transneuronal degeneration after brain damage. behavioral events and effects of anticonvulsant gamma-aminobutyric acid-related drugs. recent morphologic and behavioral studies of the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid agents on transsynaptic degeneration after cortical and striatal damage are reviewed and discussed. following unilateral lesions of the anteromedial cortex, mild atrophy appears in the ipsilateral striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata. long-term diazepam administration greatly enhances this degeneration, extends the degeneration into the thalamus, and severely disrupts recovery from somatosensory asymmetries. following unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the striatum, progressive degeneration of neurons occurs in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and efferent targets in the thalamus. this degeneration can be prevented by chronic infusion of muscimol, a gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist. unexpectedly, this treatment did not facilitate recovery from somatosensory asymmetries. recovery in muscimol-treated animals was impaired relative to saline-treated controls. thus, gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists either may enhance or prevent neural atrophy secondary to brain damage, but the behavioral outcome appears to depend importantly on the excitatory and inhibitory characteristics of the affected networks.
pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis. a systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients (15 men and 10 women) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years. seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed, which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis. bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients. the radiolucencies were located in the atlas (1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch) and in the axis (3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body). no horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated. these features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy. they could be a frequent, yet thus far little-recognized, feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis.
inflammatory bowel disease induced by combined bacterial immunization and oral carrageenan in guinea pigs. model development, histopathology, and effects of sulfasalazine. a model of experimentally induced inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) featuring colitis, originally devised by onderdonk and co-workers in guinea pigs, was modified to establish the optimal conditions for ulcer development. upon varying the time of subcutaneous immunization with bacteroides vulgatus and concomitant oral administration of acid-degraded iota-carrageenan and viable b. vulgatus, it was found that the optimal times of administering these agents were one to two weeks and five to six days, respectively. light microscopy of the colon and cecum of the guinea pigs given the optimized treatment for ulcer induction revealed pronounced edema, inflammation, and lesions of the mucosa. transmission electron microscopy of the mucosa from these animals showed the presence of large numbers of leukocytes in the subepithelial region, the majority being polymorphonuclear neutrophils which possessed large electron-dense granules or rods. oral administration of 300 mg/kg/day sulfasalazine (salicylazosulfapyridine) for 14 days to guinea pigs given the optimized treatment for ulcer induction failed to reduce the numbers of ulcers or the histopathology gradings and fine structural changes of the mucosal inflammatory changes, but did reduce the symptoms of diarrhea.
metabolism of human gliomas: assessment with h-1 mr spectroscopy and f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose pet localized hydrogen-1 magnetic resonance (mr) spectroscopy and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) positron emission tomography (pet) were employed to obtain metabolic information from intracranial gliomas. advantages and difficulties associated with comparison of results from the two modalities were realized. forty patients were studied with h-1 mr spectroscopy. mr signal intensities from lactate, n-acetylaspartate (naa), choline, and creatine from a volume of interest containing the tumor and a contralateral volume were obtained and evaluated. naa signal intensities were generally decreased in the tumor spectra, and choline signal intensities were elevated. h-1 mr spectroscopy was unsuccessful in eight patients, and fdg pet scans were not obtained in four of the patients with successful mr spectroscopic examinations. lactate signal intensity was detected in 10 of the 28 patients who had successful h-1 mr spectroscopic and fdg pet studies. lactate signal intensities were observed in lesions shown at fdg pet to be hypermetabolic, as well as in lesions found to be hypometabolic.
plasma concentrations of bupivacaine and two of its metabolites during continuous interscalene brachial plexus block. an interscalene brachial plexus block was performed via a catheter with 20-28 ml of 0.75% bupivacaine plus adrenaline for surgery of the shoulder region in 12 patients. constant infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine 0.25 mg kg-1 h-1 was continued for 24 h. during surgery light general anaesthesia, without analgesics, was maintained. plasma concentrations of total and unbound (free fraction) bupivacaine, desbutylbupivacaine (dbb), 4-hydroxybupivacaine (4-ohb) and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (aag) were measured at predetermined intervals during the continuous block. the greatest mean plasma concentrations of bupivacaine were measured at 30 min (1.63 (sd 0.55) micrograms ml-1) and 60 min (1.38 (0.48) micrograms ml-1). there was a small but statistically significant increase in the plasma concentration of bupivacaine between 12 and 24 h of infusion. the mean unbound concentration of bupivacaine in plasma decreased from 0.044 (0.015) microgram ml-1 (3.6 (1.1)% of total bupivacaine concentration) at 3 h to 0.023 (0.011) micrograms ml-1 (2.1 (1.0)%) at 24 h. the aag concentration in plasma increased by 38% in 24 h. the metabolites dbb and 4-ohb were detectable in plasma from 30 min, with a gradual increase during infusion. at 24 h the mean concentrations of dbb and 4-ohb were 0.33 (0.22) micrograms ml-1 and 0.13 (0.04) micrograms ml-1, respectively. there were no toxic reactions during the blocks.
fasting in vivo delays myocardial cell damage after brief periods of ischemia in the isolated working rat heart. to assess the effects of fasting on recovery of function and exogenous glucose metabolism after 15 minutes of total ischemia, we perfused isolated working rat hearts from fed and fasted animals. hearts were perfused in a recirculating system with bicarbonate buffer containing glucose (10 mm). mechanical performance, release of marker proteins for ischemic membrane damage (lactate dehydrogenase, myoglobin, citrate synthase), and the concentrations of lactate and glucose in the perfusion medium were measured serially. tissue metabolites were also measured. fasting raised the myocardial glycogen content by 25%. cardiac performance of perfused hearts from fed and fasted animals was the same during the preischemic and the post-ischemic period. the time of return of function to preischemic values was significantly less in hearts from fasted rats (2.3 versus 7.8 minutes, p less than 0.025). the release of cytosolic and mitochondrial marker proteins was significantly lower in hearts from fasted rats than in hearts from fed rats. glucose metabolic rates during control and reperfusion were unchanged for hearts from fasted rats, but decreased for hearts from fed rats during reperfusion. the adenine nucleotide content at the end of ischemia was higher in hearts from fasted animals than in hearts from fed animals. we conclude that increasing glycogen levels prior to ischemia improves recovery of function, lessens membrane damage, and prevents loss of adenine nucleotides.
capsular transgression of prostatic carcinoma: evaluation with transrectal us with pathologic correlation. one hundred twenty-five patients with biopsy proved clinical stage a or b prostatic carcinoma were evaluated with biplane transrectal ultrasonography (us) prior to radical prostatectomy. sonograms were evaluated for capsular transgression of the tumor into the posterior and posterolateral aspects of the glands as manifested by local contour deformity and irregularity or interruption of the periprostatic fat echoes. correlation of the findings at us with the findings at pathologic examination of the step sections was obtained, and the presence and depth of capsular penetration were assessed. of the 250 halves or hemispheres of the prostate gland that were evaluated, capsular penetration was seen at pathologic examination in 86. us enabled correct identification of pericapsular tumor spread in 59 of the 86 hemispheres but did not depict pericapsular tumor spread in 27 hemispheres. absence of pericapsular tumor spread was verified at pathologic examination in 149 of the 164 hemispheres that either did not have tumor or did not show pericapsular tumor spread. pericapsular tumor spread was incorrectly diagnosed in 15 hemispheres. a positive us diagnosis of pericapsular tumor spread correlated moderately well with the depth of penetration demonstrated at pathologic examination. transrectal us is an effective noninvasive procedure that demonstrates the presence of prostatic cancer.
therapy of ischemic cardiomyopathy with pentoxifylline. abnormal blood rheology is a known characteristics of coronary artery disease. the authors evaluated the effects of pentoxifylline on the exercise capacity ejection fraction and symptoms of 9 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. all patients had signs and symptoms of left ventricular dysfunction. all had at least two major vessels obstructed as determined by coronary angiography. pentoxifylline 400 mg three times daily was administered for twelve weeks. seven of 9 patients responded with increases in ejection fraction and exercise tolerance. exercise tolerance correlated with improvement or lack of improvement in ejection fraction. for all patients at twelve weeks post-therapy mean ejection fraction increased 9.8% over baseline (p = .07), total treadmill time increased 15% (p = .27), and mean double product increased 13% (p = .03). anginal symptoms were significantly improved over baseline at twelve weeks of therapy (p greater than .001), as well as dyspnea on exertion (p = .03). pentoxifylline was well tolerated. pentoxifylline may benefit ischemic cardiomyopathy by improving coronary perfusion owing to favorable alterations in hemorheologic properties.
ischaemic brain lesions diagnosed at birth in preterm infants: clinical events and developmental outcome. in 232 newborn babies of less than 32 weeks' gestational age ultrasound brain scans were carried out shortly after birth, daily for the first week of life, and at least twice weekly thereafter. periventricular echogenicity associated with or progressing to periventricular leukomalacia (ischaemic brain lesions) was present in nine babies within two hours of birth (early onset); 30 other babies subsequently developed similar lesions (late onset). babies with early onset lesions were more likely to have a history of intrauterine growth retardation and to have recurrent apnoea in the first few hours after birth. by contrast, late onset lesions were associated with hyaline membrane disease. in later childhood four of six survivors with early onset periventricular leukomalacia, and seven of 14 survivors with late onset periventricular leukomalacia, had various disabilities including spastic diplegia, impaired vision, squints, sensorineural hearing loss, and developmental delay. in a third of the children with disabilities ischaemic brain lesions were noted within two hours of birth, raising the possibility that some of this damage had taken place before or during birth.
esophageal reflux before and after isolated myotomy for achalasia. four patients with achalasia underwent 24-hour esophageal ph measurements as ambulatory patients before and after limited myotomy without fundoplication. resting lower esophageal sphincter pressure was reduced from 24.3 +/- 1.3 mm hg to 7.5 +/- 4.3 mm hg. no significant differences (p greater than 0.05) were found before and after operation in the total 24-hour ph data distribution (ph 6.24 +/- 0.84 vs 5.75 +/- 1.03), the fraction of time below ph 4.0 (4.8% +/- 5.3% vs 8.0% +/- 6.9%), or the mean duration of reflux episodes greater than 5 minutes (22.8 +/- 18.8 minutes vs 23.0 +/- 10 minutes), all +/- sd. effective relief of esophageal obstruction in achalasia is feasible by isolated limited myotomy without producing gastroesophageal reflux.
a protocol for butalbital, aspirin and caffeine (bac) detoxification in headache patients. the abuse of the combination drug containing butalbital 50 mg, aspirin 325 mg and caffeine 40 mg (or bac), is commonly recognized by headache specialists as causing headaches. despite this widespread problem, there is not a published treatment regimen for the bac detoxification of patients. i describe such a protocol which was used four times in three patients. these patients fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of the ihs headache classification for headaches induced by chronic substance abuse (8.2) and analgesics abuse headache (8.2.2). these patients took between 150 and 420 bac/month for 2-15 years. two patients had previously undergone inpatient detoxification. one patient unsuccessfully tried detoxification twice as an outpatient. all patients were required to have psychological support prior to hospitalization for this protocol. bac was discontinued. a pentobarbital challenge test corroborated butalbital dosage. the patients were given phenobarbital and caffeine which were tapered over several days. dihydroergotamine (dhe) with metoclopramide was used (raskin). propranolol 60 mg bid was started. no narcotics were permitted. after hospital discharge, patients were allowed to continue subcutaneous dhe, as needed. one patient restarted bac use after 8 months without it. the other two patients were still bac free 18 and 14 months after detoxification.
preoperative pulmonary status and postoperative extubation outcome of patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery. the purpose of this study was to determine whether factors associated with impaired pulmonary function were predictive of postoperative extubation outcome (extubation according to protocol or delayed extubation) in a sample of patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery. forty-seven patients were assessed before surgery and after postoperative extubation using a noninvasive assessment technique. positive preoperative affect was the sole factor associated with extubation outcome in this sample of patients undergoing cardiac surgery. those who were extubated according to hospital protocol had significantly higher positive affect scores (p = 0.02) than did those who were not. subjects with delayed extubations had a greater incidence of postoperative atelectasis (p = 0.02). they also had significantly longer stays in the surgical intensive care unit (p = 0.01) and the hospital (p = 0.05). preoperative pulmonary function, age, sex, and history of smoking were not associated with postoperative extubation outcome.
utility of frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma at mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy. we conducted a retrospective analysis of the utility of frozen-section diagnoses in determining lymph node status at mediastinoscopy in 122 consecutive patients with bronchogenic carcinoma. thirty-five of 122 patients had one or more lymph nodes with frozen-section evaluation positive for metastatic carcinoma. subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-section study revealed metastatic carcinoma in two additional patients. the false-negative rate was 1.6%. sensitivity was 94.6%. predictive value of negative frozen-section evaluation results was 97.7%. because there were no false-positive frozen-section results, specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section evaluation were 100%. the statuses of individual lymph nodes from these 122 patients were also evaluated. six hundred twenty lymph nodes were sampled from the mediastinum at mediastinoscopy. frozen-sections in 47 lymph nodes were positive. subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-sections examination revealed metastatic carcinoma in four additional lymph nodes. the false-negative rate was 0.6%. sensitivity was 92.2%. predictive value of negative results from frozen-section evaluation was 99.3%. because there were no false-positive frozen-section results, specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section examination were 100%. we conclude that frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes at mediastinoscopy reliably indicates lymph node status, thus enabling the physician to decide whether to proceed to thoracotomy. thus staging of the carcinoma and definitive surgery can be accomplished during a single anesthetic procedure. combining mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy with frozen-section diagnostic control also reduces both the length and cost of hospitalization.
superficial esophageal carcinoma. surgical treatment and the results. we report 92 patients treated with esophagectomy for superficial esophageal carcinoma (sec; 9.1% of all resected esophageal cancers at our institution). the operative mortality rate was 5.4%. in 24 cases, cancer invasion was limited to the mucosa, and in 68 to the submucosa. twenty-three patients in the former group had no lymph node involvement, whereas 24 patients (35.3%) of the latter group had lymph node metastases. the 5-year survival rate after surgery for patients with sec limited to the mucosa was 83.5%, which was significantly better than that for carcinoma invading the submucosa (54.9%). no recurrent disease occurred in patients with lesions limited to the mucosa. in conclusion, an esophagectomy with wide lymphadenectomy is necessary to provide a better prognosis for sec invading the submucosa, whereas a less extensive treatment may be considered for sec limited to the mucosa.
mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of different rodent strains: correlation with susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis. the frequency and pattern of mutations at codon 61 of the c-ha-ras gene have been analyzed in 195 liver tumors and 132 precancerous liver lesions from various rodent strains with differing susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis. by using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, c----a transversions at the first base and a----t transversions or a----g transitions at the second base of c-ha-ras codon 61 were detected in 20-60% of spontaneous or carcinogen-induced liver tumors of the c3h/he, cba, cf1, and b6c3f1 mouse strains, which are highly susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis. no such mutations, however, could be found in any of the 31 liver tumors of the insensitive c57bl/6j and balb/c mouse strains or in any of the 35 liver tumors of the comparatively resistant wistar rat. further analyses of c-ha-ras codon 12 mutations in liver tumors from the three insensitive rodent strains also failed to give any positive results. in early precancerous liver lesions, c-ha-ras codon 61 mutations were found in 13-14% of lesions of the sensitive c3h/he and b6c3f1 mouse strains but not in any of the 34 lesions of the insensitive c57bl/6j mouse. taken together, our results indicate a close correlation between the mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of the different rodent strains and their susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis, whereby the mutations appear to provide a selective growth advantage, leading to a clonal expansion of the mutated liver cell population, only in livers of sensitive but not of insensitive strains.
renal secretion and hepatic clearance of human multiple renin forms. human active renin can be separated into at least five forms by isoelectric focusing. the present study assessed the preferential renal secretion and hepatic degradation of renin forms in humans. the renin form profile of secreted renal renin was determined before transplant in an ex vivo kidney donor perfusion system and compared with the peripheral plasma multiple renin form profile of normal subjects. the effect of hepatic degradation on renin forms was assessed in hepatic vein plasma in comparison with infrarenal vena cava plasma in hypertensive patients during renal vein renin studies. the results revealed a significantly greater proportion of the more basic forms in the perfusate of donor kidneys compared with normal plasma. in hypertensive patients the proportion of the more basic renin forms in the hepatic vein was significantly decreased in comparison with the infrarenal vena cava. thus, the human kidney may preferentially secrete the more basic renin forms. in contrast, the liver preferentially degrades the more basic forms, giving these forms a shorter plasma half-life. the preferential secretion and clearance of the more basic forms of renin may contribute to short-term control of human renin-angiotensin system activity.
airway responsiveness to inhaled methacholine in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. we examined whether patients with irritable bowel syndrome have increased airway responsiveness by measuring forced expiratory volumes in 1 second (fev1) after inhalation of increasing concentrations of methacholine. responses obtained in 11 ibs patients were compared with those obtained in 11 normal subjects and in 11 subjects with organic disease of the gut or its related organs. all subjects were selected so that other factors that might contribute to increased airway responsiveness were excluded. the methacholine concentration that caused a 20% fall in the fev1 (pc20), as well as the reduction in fev1 induced by each methacholine concentration, were used to assess airway responsiveness. the geometric mean pc20 was 197.6 mg/ml (%sem, 1.15) for normal subjects, 83.9 mg/ml (%sem, 1.51) for subjects with organic bowel disease (p = 0.012), and only 12.8 mg/ml (%sem, 1.74) for ibs patients (p less than 0.0001). the 22.5% +/- 2.5% decrease in fev1 induced by 64 mg/ml of methacholine in ibs patients was significantly greater than that of 12.3% +/- 1.5% observed in healthy subjects (p = 0.003). in contrast, the 15.7% +/- 2.0% decrease in fev1 observed in patients with organic disease was not different from that seen in normal subjects (p = 0.189). we conclude that ibs is associated with increased airway responsiveness following challenge with methacholine.
enhanced mobilization of intracellular ca2+ induced by halothane in hepatocytes isolated from swine susceptible to malignant hyperthermia. halothane, in a dose-dependent manner, induced the release of intracellular ca2+ in hepatocytes prepared from swine. the magnitude of the release induced by halothane was greater for hepatocytes prepared from animals susceptible to malignant hyperthermia (mh) than for those from normal swine. two different methods were used to ascertain the release of ca2+ induced by halothane: 1) the release of 45ca2+ from nonmitochondrial stores of saponin-permeabilized hepatocytes was measured; and 2) changes in luminescence from intact hepatocytes loaded with the ca2(+)-sensitive photoprotein aequorin were recorded. it was also observed that, although 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate (ip3), guanosine-5-triphosphate, and arachidonic acid all induced a significant release of 45ca2+ from permeabilized swine hepatocytes, only the quantities of 45ca2+ released by ip3 were significantly greater for the hepatocytes prepared from the animals susceptible to mh. these data indicate an abnormal ca2+ homeostasis in hepatocytes isolated from swine susceptible to mh, which supports the hypothesis that membrane systems from multiple organs may be affected in this genetic disorder.
techniques of emergency ventilation: a model to evaluate tidal volume, airway pressure, and gastric insufflation. we designed a model to evaluate the effectiveness of various noninvasive methods of ventilation. the upper airway was simulated with the head of a resusci-annie which was attached to a test lung. the esophagus and stomach were simulated with a penrose drain connected to a rolling seal spirometer via a peep valve. fifteen paramedic volunteers ventilated the model utilizing mouth-to-mouth, mouth-to-mask, bag-valve-mask, or portable field ventilator (impact or harv). recording of tidal volume, gastric volume, and proximal and distal airway pressure was completed at three different levels of compliance. at normal compliance, all methods except the harv met or exceeded american heart association standards. as compliance decreased, tidal volume fell and gastric insufflation increased. at a compliance of 0.02 l/cm h2o all methods failed to meet aha standards and gastric insufflation volume equalled delivered tidal volumes for mouth-to-mouth and mouth-to-mask techniques. mouth-to-mouth and mouth-to-mask techniques generated the largest tidal volumes but also created the largest volume of gastric insufflation. the impact ventilator provided an acceptable tidal volume with minimal gastric insufflation. our results suggest that mouth-to-mask ventilation with supplemental oxygen enrichment is the most efficient technique for non-invasive airway management.
new treatment for frontal sinus hypertrophy a new treatment of frontal sinus hypertrophy is described. the anterior wall is removed, inverted, and attached again. the resulting depression is filled with bone dust. details are discussed, and a case is presented.
risk factors for emphysema. cigarette smoking is associated with a reduction in the association rate constant of lung alpha 1-antitrypsin for neutrophil elastase. the increased risk of developing emphysema among individuals who smoke cigarettes and who have normal levels of alpha 1-antitrypsin (alpha 1at) is hypothesized to result from a decrease in the antineutrophil elastase capacity of the lower respiratory tract alpha 1at of smokers compared with nonsmokers. to evaluate this hypothesis we compared the time-dependent kinetics of the inhibition of neutrophil elastase by lung alpha 1at from healthy, young cigarette smokers (n = 8) and nonsmokers (n = 12). alpha 1-antitrypsin was purified from lavage fluid using affinity and molecular sieve chromatography, and the association rate constant (k assoc) for neutrophil elastase quantified. the k assoc of smoker plasma alpha 1at (9.5 +/- 0.5 x 10(6) m-1s-1) was similar to that of nonsmoker plasma (9.3 +/- 0.7 x 10(6) m-1s-1, p greater than 0.5). in marked contrast, the k assoc of smoker lower respiratory tract alpha 1at was significantly lower than that of nonsmoker alpha 1at (6.5 +/- 0.4 x 10(6) m-1s-1 vs. 8.1 +/- 0.5 x 10(6) m-1s-1, p less than 0.01). furthermore, the smoker lower respiratory tract alpha 1at k assoc was significantly less than that of autologous plasma (p less than 0.01). when considered in the context of the concentration of alpha 1at in the lower respiratory tract epithelial lining fluid, the inhibition time for neutrophil elastase of smoker lung alpha 1at was twofold greater than that of nonsmoker lung alpha 1at (smoker: 0.34 +/- 0.05 s vs. nonsmoker: 0.17 +/- 0.05 s, p less than 0.01). consequently, for concentrations of alpha 1at in the lower respiratory tract it takes twice as long for an equivalent amount of neutrophil elastase to be inhibited in the smoker's lung compared with the nonsmoker's lung. these observations support the concept that cigarette smoking is associated with a decrease in the lower respiratory tract neutrophil elastase inhibitory capacity, thus increasing the vulnerability of the lung to elastolytic destruction and thereby increasing the risk for the development of emphysema.
a family study of gilles de la tourette syndrome. previous studies have demonstrated that gilles de la tourette syndrome (ts) is a familial disorder and that chronic tics (ct) and obsessive compulsive disorder (ocd) appear to be etiologically related to the syndrome. in the present study we report the results from a study of 338 biological relatives of 86 ts probands, 21 biologically unrelated relatives of adopted ts probands, and 22 relatives of normal subjects. the 43 first-degree relatives of the adopted ts and normal probands constituted a control sample. the rates of ts, ct, and ocd in the total sample of biological relatives of ts probands were significantly greater than in the relatives of controls. in addition, the morbid risks of ts, ocd, and ct were not significantly different in families of probands with ocd when compared to relatives of probands without ocd. these findings provide further evidence that ocd is etiologically related to ts.
malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the conjunctiva. malignant fibrous histiocytoma (mfh) of the conjunctiva is an extremely rare tumour, and only three previous cases have been reported. we describe two patients with mfh of the conjunctiva: a 58-year-old white male with epibulbar tumour who had exenteration and is alive after five years' follow-up, and a 3 1/2-year-old african girl with xeroderma pigmentosum and an mfh of her right eye conjunctiva, the first reported case of this association. the characteristics and the methods of diagnosis of mfh are discussed.
treatment of adenocarcinoma of the cardia with synchronous chemotherapy and radiotherapy. twenty-nine evaluable patients with adenocarcinoma of the cardia were treated with synchronously administered chemotherapy (two cycles of 5-fluouracil and cisplatin and 30-36 gy of radiation to determine whether these tumours are responsive to such treatment. complete regression of tumour was observed endoscopically in 19 patients, and partial regression in four. fourteen patients had their tumours resected and in six no microscopic tumour was found in the specimen. nine patients received additional radiotherapy to a total dose of 54-60 gy instead of surgery. tumour response was associated with rapid reversal of dysphagia. only one patient required subsequent intervention for relief of dysphagia due to fibrous stricture. enhanced survival was associated with a complete endoscopic response to initial chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and a tumour of less than 5 cm in length. the median survival of responding patients was 15 months. synchronous chemotherapy and radiotherapy was of major palliative benefit in this series and merits further evaluation.
outbreak of bacillus calmette-guerin-associated lymphadenitis and abscesses in jamaican children. an outbreak of axillary lymphadenitis and abscesses after bacillus calmette-guerin (bcg) vaccination (pasteur paris, batch n5122) occurred in 139 jamaican children between january and july, 1988. the overall rate of this complication was 0.95%. the attack rate was 1.92% among the 0- to 6-week age group and 0.6% in the 7- to 52-week age group. of 139 patients there were 77 males and 62 females and the mean age at presentation was 4 months. the mean size of the bcg scar, duration of healing and mantoux reaction size differed significantly in patients compared with those of control infants (p less than 0.01). mycobacterium bovis was isolated from 11 patients. immunologically index patients and controls differed significantly only with respect to t lymphocyte subpopulation percentages and concanavalin a stimulation indices. evaluation of the bcg vaccine did not reveal either increased potency or microbial contamination. we conclude that increased susceptibility to the pasteur strain of bcg might have contributed to the increased incidence of complications in these jamaican children and hence caution should be exercised in switching one vaccine for another as is often done in the developing countries.
hypoplastic transverse arch and coarctation in neonates. surgical reconstruction of the aortic arch: a study of sixty-six patients. from jan. 1, 1983, to jan. 1, 1988, 66 consecutive neonates with coarctation and severe hypoplasia of the transverse arch underwent coarctation repair by resection of the coarctation and reconstruction of the aortic arch. mean age at operation was 14 +/- 8 days, ranging from 2 to 30 days; 63% of the newborn infants were less than 2 weeks of age. the coarctation was isolated in 23%, associated with a ventricular septal defect in 39%, and associated with complex anomalies in 38%, including 16 cases of transposition of the great arteries or doublet-outlet right ventricle plus ventricular septal defect, two cases of simple transposition, two of corrected transposition plus ventricular septal defect, and five cases of "hypoplastic" left ventricle. the surgical technique comprises a wide resection of the coarctation extended to the contiguous ductal tissue followed by the reconstruction of the aortic arch in bringing the descending aorta into the concavity of the aortic arch. this technique is able to relieve the obstruction of the aortic arch provided that (1) the descending aorta is widely dissected to allow mobilization and (2) the incision of the transverse arch is extended proximal to the ostium of the left carotid artery. the operation was performed through a left thoracotomy in 62 patients and through a sternotomy in four additional neonates with transposition and ventricular septal defect who underwent a one-stage repair with aortic reconstruction, closure of the defect, and arterial switch. the overall early mortality rate (less than 30 days) was 14% (9/66; 95% confidence limits = 5% to 22%), including four deaths occurring within the first month, at a concomitant or subsequent repair of the associated anomaly. there were six late deaths, all related to the associated lesions. the overall mortality rate was 23% (15/66; 95% confidence limits = 13% to 33%). the mean follow-up was 21 +/- 10 months, ranging from 6 to 66 months. actuarial survival rates at 5 years are 72% +/- 10% for the overall group; 87% +/- 17% for simple coarctation; 88% +/- 12% for coarctation and ventricular septal defect; and 52% +/- 18% for complex coarctation. the rate of recurrent coarctation was 12.5% (95% confidence limits = 2% to 23%), leading to five reoperations with no deaths. freedom from reoperation was 89.5% +/- 9% at 5 years. this technique of coarctation repair offers several advantages: low operative mortality, complete relief of the left ventricular obstruction, wide resection of the ductus tissue, absence of prosthetic material, and preservation of the left subclavian artery.
acute angiographic and clinical outcome of high speed percutaneous rotational atherectomy (rotablator). percutaneous rotational atherectomy (rotablator), a high speed (greater than 100,000 rpm) rotational burr, was used successfully in 38 of 43 patients (88%) (mean age: 65 +/- 7 years) with 82 lesions (71 stenoses and 11 occlusions). the clinical indications were claudication (84%), nonhealing ulcer (7%), and renovascular hypertension (7%). rotablation was successful in 78 of 82 lesions (95%): 68 of 71 (96%) stenoses (12 of 12 iliac, 11 of 11 femoral, 7 of 8 popliteal, 36 of 37 tibial, and 2 of 3 renal arteries; 60% of lesions were diffuse, i.e., greater than or equal to 4 cm in length), and 10 of 11 (91%) occlusions (5 of 6 femoral, 1 of 1 popliteal, 3 of 3 tibioperoneal, 1 of 1 brachial artery). the rotablator significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced the arterial obstruction (stenoses: 85 +/- 11% to 12 +/- 12%); occlusions: 100% to 25 +/- 10%). the effective final burr size for arteries varied at 3.5-4.5 mm for renal, 3.0-3.5 mm for femoral, and 2.0-3.0 mm for brachial and tibial. complications included gross hemoglobinuria without sequelae in 27 patients (63%), groin hematoma in 10 (23%), arterial spasm in 10 (23%), and arterial bypass in 2 (5%). the rotablator was successfully used, without concomitant conventional balloon angioplasty, to open arterial lesions with excellent angiographic results in both diffuse and segmental peripheral vascular disease. there was gratifying patient clinical improvement.
predictors of quitting smoking: the nhanes i followup experience. there are no published prospective studies on the predictors of spontaneously quitting cigarette smoking in a nationally-representative u.s. population. this paper describes such a study, using a cohort taken from the first national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes i, 1971-1975) and traced by the nhanes i epidemiologic followup survey (1982-1984). "successful" quitting (for at least 1 year at time of followup) was ascertained among 4779 adults (age 25-74 years) who were smokers at the time of nhanes i and not disabled at followup. independent predictors of quitting (by proportional hazards multiple regression) were: (1) older age; (2) white race; (3) fewer cigarettes smoked/day; (4) higher household income; and (5) hospitalization in the followup period. predictors of relapse (ex-smokers at nhanes i who were smoking again at time of followup) were: (1) younger age; (2) urban residence; and (3) female gender. these findings have implications for intervention strategies, public health projections and further research.
patient flow in the emergency department: the chest pain patient. prompt treatment of the chest pain patient in the emergency department (ed) is crucial. to ensure prompt treatment, identification of factors that delay flow of these patients through the department is essential. to identify factors that delay patient flow through the ed, the authors conducted a prospective study of all chest pain patients, using a time-flow analysis. eighty-eight (36%) of 245 patients required critical unit admissions and had an average department stay of 3 1/2 hours. flow differences were seen between critical and noncritical care patients. three primary sources of delay were identified: critical unit bed availability, the registration process, and the role of the unit admitting resident. additional findings confirmed the efficacy and role of the triage nurse in patient flow. nursing and medical education and staffing needs were addressed. the use of the community's emergency medical services was examined by analyzing the disposition of patients arriving at the ed by ambulance.
the effects of midazolam on cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption. interaction with nitrous oxide in patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial cerebral tumours. cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen were measured in 30 patients during craniotomy for supratentorial cerebral tumours by a modification of the kety-schmidt technique using xenon 133 intravenously. anaesthesia was induced with midazolam 0.3 mg/kg, fentanyl and pancuronium, and maintained with midazolam as a continuous infusion, fentanyl, pancuronium and nitrous oxide in oxygen or oxygen in air. the concentration of midazolam in the blood of 10 patients was about 300 ng/litre during two measurements; the patients' lungs were ventilated with n2o in oxygen. the concentration of midazolam in the blood of another 10 patients was doubled to about 600 ng/litre during the second flow measurement; the patients' lungs were ventilated with n2o/o2. the concentration of midazolam in the blood of the third group of 10 patients was doubled to 600 ng/litre during the second flow measurement; the patients' lungs were ventilated with oxygen in air. no relationship was found between the dose of midazolam and cerebral blood flow or oxygen consumption. nitrous oxide in combination with midazolam also had no effect on these variables.
the effect of omental pedicle graft transfer on spinal microcirculation and laminectomy membrane formation. the properties of the omentum and its effect on spinal neurologic disease was investigated. omental pedicle grafts were transferred to the laminectomized lumbar spines of nine neurologically normal dogs. grafts were placed on either the dura or the spinal cord. interruption of the graft's circulation was examined. to study the effect, the artery of the graft was injected with contrast and the graft-dura interface studied histologically. all injected specimens demonstrated vascular connections from the graft to the neural elements. the graft was found to decrease postoperative perineural scarring. the omentum appears to possess properties that could be applied to improve outcomes in spinal surgery.
central airway obstruction due to cytomegalovirus-induced necrotizing tracheitis in a patient with aids. cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) can present as either disseminated disease, pneumonitis, retinitis, gastroenteritis, neuropathy, or a subclinical infection. we report a patient whose initial manifestation of cmv infection was severe central airways obstruction due to necrotizing tracheitis. at bronchoscopy, the lesion appeared deeply ulcerated, distinctly different from previously described airway lesions in patients with aids. mucosal biopsies showed characteristic intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusions and cultures yielded only cmv. the patient responded partially to ganciclovir, steroids, and antibiotics against suspected anaerobic superinfection but died as a result of central nervous system disease believed due to toxoplasmosis or lymphoma. cmv infection of the upper airway should be considered in the patient with aids presenting with atypical cough or stridor and ulcerated endobronchial lesions.
long-term results of revision endolymphatic sac surgery. the results of revision endolymphatic sac surgery on 30 patients with unilateral meniere's disease are presented. good control is achieved in 73.3 per cent of cases at six months, falling to 56.7 per cent at one year and only 33.3 per cent by four years. the long-term results are disappointing but are more favourable if the initial surgery was successful, if the hearing remains fluctuant and improves on glycerol dehydration prior to the revision procedure and also if the sac is intubated. the current place of endolymphatic sac surgery is discussed and revision surgery only recommended for carefully selected cases.
platelet factor 4 mrna expression in cells from a patient with megakaryoblastic crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. a 61-year-old man with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia developed megakaryoblastic leukemia. in the blast phase, his blast cells showed undifferentiated megakaryoblastic characteristics with no alpha-granules or demarcation membranes but with detectable platelet peroxidase (ppo) activity and surface glycoprotein (gp) iib/iiia. the patient has remained reasonably well for at least 12 months after blastic crisis, and 6-mercaptopurine alone has been effective in controlling leukocytosis and megakaryoblast proliferation. the expression of mrna for platelet-specific proteins, such as gpiib and platelet factor 4 (pf4), was studied in the patient's blast cells by the northern blot analysis. both gpiib and pf4 mrna were detected in the blast cells. cytoplasmic maturation occurs later than the synthesis of the surface gp during megakaryocyte maturation. therefore, pf4 mrna expression should be a marker of mature megakaryoblasts. the pf4 mrna expression in megakaryoblastic leukemia may indicate that a patient will have long survival and a good response to chemotherapy.
persistent carcinoma in situ of the testis after chemotherapy for advanced testicular germ cell tumours. the chemosensitivity of testicular carcinoma in situ (cis) was analysed in 25 testes excised 10 weeks to 4.5 years following platinum-based chemotherapy. cis was present in 8 of the 23 evaluable cases (35%), in 5 of which the lesion coexisted with invasive germ cell tumour. it is concluded that cis may persist or recur after chemotherapy. this has implications for occult presentation of metastatic germ cell tumours and also for the management of the contralateral testis in patients with testicular germ cell tumours.
expandable biliary metal stents for malignancies: endoscopic insertion and diathermic cleaning for tumor ingrowth. seventeen patients with malignant biliary strictures have been treated by endoscopic insertion of self-expandable metallic prostheses. two patients received two prostheses inserted simultaneously in both the left and right hepatic ducts for klatskin tumor type iii. immediate results were satisfactory despite an operative mortality of 18%, and neither early nor late clogging was observed even in patients who presented previously with sludge above plastic stents that were removed. however, among five patients followed for more than 4 months, two presented with obstruction due to tumor ingrowth into the stent through the metallic mesh. accordingly, initial enthusiasm concerning long-term patency of these stents has decreased. however, we describe a technique of "diathermic cleaning" of tumor ingrowth which can easily restore the stent patency. the advantages of these wire mesh 30 f stents are their easier insertion, better immediate drainage, and absence of dislocation or perforation.
mortality among aerial pesticide applicators and flight instructors: a reprint [corrected and republished article originally printed in arch environ health 1990 sep-oct;45(5):295-302] a cohort mortality study was conducted of male aerial pesticide applicators and flight instructors identified from computerized federal aviation administration medical examination records from 1965-1979. vital status of 9,677 applicators and 9,727 instructors was determined through january 1, 1980, and standardized mortality ratios (smrs) were calculated. the overall smr was 127 for applicators (699 deaths) and 93 for instructors (454 deaths). fatalities from nonmotor vehicle accidents, mostly aircraft crashes, were in notable excess (smr = 1,168 among applicators, 630 among instructors), whereas deaths from most chronic diseases, including all cancer, was below expectation (e.g., for arteriosclerotic heart disease, smr = 52 among applicators and 50 among instructors). the ability of the study to assess cancer risk among applicators was limited by a relatively brief follow-up period. however, 8 applicators (smr = 171), but only 1 flight instructor (smr = 24), died of leukemia, and small, nonsignificant risk elevations for some other cancer sites among applicators were observed and warrant continued follow-up.
use of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and management of posterior fossa hemangioblastomas. the diagnosis of central nervous system hemangioblastoma as well as the surgical treatment requires the accurate radiologic visualization of both the cystic and solid components of the tumor. we report two cases of posterior fossa hemangioblastoma examined with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, which clearly defined the tumor nodule that was not visualized on noncontrast magnetic resonance imaging, contrast-enhanced computed tomography scans, or angiography. in both cases the operative findings precisely correlated with the gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance image. gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging is the examination of choice for preoperative evaluation of posterior fossa hemangioblastoma. in cases of von hippel-lindau syndrome, magnetic resonance imaging is a useful tool for clinical screening as well as follow-up.
outcome of pregnancies experienced during residency. to investigate potential adverse effects of residency training on pregnancy outcome, a cohort study was conducted among 45 university-affiliated residency programs. outcomes of the first pregnancy experienced during residency were compared between 92 female residents and 144 spouses of male residents. despite long hours, sleep deprivation, and an increase in perceived stress, the female residents were as likely to give birth to a live, full-term newborn as the spouses of male residents. for white cohort members, an increased risk of premature labor without delivery was identified (rr = 12.3, 95% confidence interval 2.4-61.6). no significant differences were found in prematurity, spontaneous and therapeutic abortions, or presence of congenital abnormalities in the infants. method of delivery and use of anesthetics and of other medications were similar in both groups. pregnancy outcomes between the two groups were similar; however, the increased risk for premature labor among female residents is a cause for concern and should be further investigated.
premorphological metabolic changes in human breast carcinogenesis. malignant breast tissue is characterized by morphological and metabolic changes when compared with normal breast tissue. in this study, the cytochemical measurement of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (g6pd) activity was used to detect abnormal metabolism in breast tissue and to determine whether abnormal metabolic activity precedes morphological change during human breast carcinogenesis. normal and benign breast tissue, morphologically normal tissue from cancer-containing breasts, and malignant breast tissue were studied. in malignant tissue, mean(s.e.m.) g6pd activity was significantly increased when compared with normal and benign tissue (9.69(2.3) versus 27.02(1.7) mean integrated extinction (mie) x 100, p less than 0.01). g6pd activity was increased in morphologically normal tissue from cancer-containing breasts when compared with normal and benign breast tissue from breasts with no known cancer (27.02(1.7) versus 18.42(2.6) mie x 100, p less than 0.05). these findings suggest that metabolic abnormalities precede morphological changes in breast carcinogenesis. abnormal metabolism can be detected widely within a cancer-containing breast. the detection of such abnormality may prove helpful in identifying patients at high risk of developing breast cancer.
massive hemorrhage from an arterioureteral fistula associated with chronic renal transplant failure. a case of arterioureteral fistula from the graft artery stump of a failed transplant and the native ureter is reported. this case illustrates one of the possible complications of graft anastomosis. the etiological factors involved in the formation of the aneurysm and eventually the fistula are discussed.
clinical experience with biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. biliary lithotripsy is a new and important development in the nonsurgical management of gallbladder, cystic duct, and bile duct stones. most patients do not require general or epidural anesthesia with newer second-generation machines. patient selection and the use of adjuvant therapy to aid fragment clearance are important issues that are discussed. results from different centers are compared but few long-term results are yet available, i.e., longer than 18 months.
a study of the effectiveness of the iron-chelating agent deferoxamine as vasospasm prophylaxis in a rabbit model of subarachnoid hemorrhage. the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm occurring after subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) is unknown. several lines of experimentation have suggested a free radical mechanism in the etiology of vasospasm. iron is an important catalyst in the generation of free radicals and lipid peroxides in response to tissue injury. we hypothesize that the elaboration of iron from the subarachnoid clot might result in enhanced generation of free radicals and lipid peroxidation. if so, then treatment with deferoxamine, an iron-chelating compound, might reduce the formation of free radicals and thereby ameliorate vasospasm. this hypothesis was examined in a rabbit model of experimental cerebral vasospasm. new zealand white rabbits were divided into the following experimental groups: control (normal) animals (n = 7), control animals treated with deferoxamine (n = 3), animals subjected to sah and killed on day 2 (n = 7), animals subjected to sah on day 2 and treated with deferoxamine (n = 9), animals subjected to sah killed on day 3 (n = 7), and animals subjected to sah on day 3 and treated with deferoxamine (n = 7). deferoxamine treatment (50 mg/kg/8 hours) was begun 16 hours before the induction of sah and continued until the animals were killed by perfusion fixation. the basilar artery caliber was assessed using morphometric techniques. the diameter of the basilar arteries in the control animals was 0.64 +/- 0.02 mm. deferoxamine treatment alone did not alter the artery diameter.
lens opacity as a predictor of visual field impairment due to cataract. the contribution of cataract to the decrease of visual field in patients with glaucoma is difficult to ascertain. to attempt to quantitate the change in visual field due to cataract, we examined 27 eyes of 26 patients before and after cataract extraction. the examination consisted of measurement of best refraction with visual acuity, visual field testing with the pupil dilated, measurement of lens opacity, determination of the intraocular pressure, and evaluation of the character of the cataract before surgery and of the posterior capsule after surgery. the results reaffirmed the detrimental effect that cataract may have on the visual field but also showed that the heterogeneity of cataracts limits the usefulness of the lens opacity meter in quantitating the extent of visual field loss due to cataract.
methodology of sodium sensitivity assessment. the example of age and sex. this article addresses the methodology of sodium sensitivity assessment. there have been reports to suggest that a high sodium intake is a cause of elevated blood pressure and trials to indicate that a reduction in sodium intake may reduce blood pressure that is already high; the implications of these findings are discussed. many studies on sodium sensitivity suffer from what could be called the "normal probability fallacy"; without appropriate control conditions, an intervention such as sodium restriction may incorrectly be assigned to a more pronounced response in a subgroup of the study population. as an example, findings are reviewed of age and sex as determinants of a response of blood pressure to variations in sodium intake. the limited data available suggest that subjects that are older and have higher blood pressure levels seem to benefit more from a reduction in sodium intake. in addition, elderly subjects at a high dietary sodium intake may have a higher risk of developing hypertension. findings in both nonexperimental and experimental studies tend to support this view. findings on sex differences are less consistent. a systematic approach to the assessment of factors and mechanisms responsible for sodium sensitivity in some subjects is needed to determine who might benefit most. until more data are available, there is little basis to discriminate sodium-sensitive from sodium-resistant hypertensive subjects.
surgery for ebstein's anomaly: the clinical and echocardiographic evaluation of a new technique. ten consecutive patients (age range 4 to 44 years, mean 22) underwent surgical repair of ebstein's anomaly by vertical plication of the right ventricle and reimplantation of the tricuspid valve leaflets. no patient died during or after operation. intraoperative postbypass echocardiography documented a good result in nine patients but severe tricuspid regurgitation in one patient, who then underwent prosthetic valve replacement during a second period of cardiopulmonary bypass. two of four patients who had had right ventricular papillary muscle dysfunction in the early postoperative period showed improved papillary muscle function with concomitant reduction of tricuspid regurgitation 6 months later. all patients were evaluated clinically and by echocardiography 2 to 23 months later. all patients showed clinical improvement, seven by one functional class and three by two classes. all were in sinus rhythm. the mean cardiothoracic ratio decreased by 6% (p less than 0.05). on bicycle ergometry performed in six patients, peak oxygen consumption exceeded 20 ml/kg per min in five. tricuspid regurgitation diminished in eight patients (by three grades in two patients, by two grades in five and by one grade in one patient); it remained unchanged in two. comparison of preoperative and postoperative pulsed doppler flow velocities across the pulmonary valve showed an increase in the peak velocity of flow across the valve (mean 83 +/- 14 versus 97 +/- 11 cm/s, p less than 0.005) and a decrease in the time to peak velocity (mean 130 +/- 16 versus 91 +/- 23 ms, p less than 0.05).
lipomatous hamartoma of the orbit. proliferations of mature adipose tissue, while common in retroperitoneal and subcutaneous sites, rarely occur in the orbit. we describe the clinical, radiographic, and histopathologic findings of a nonencapsulated lipomatous tissue overgrowth of the right orbit in a 35-year-old man. the mass had caused proptosis since childhood and was apparently present since birth. due to the age at onset, the histologic similarity to normal orbital fat, and the lack of encapsulation or choristomatous elements, we propose the term lipomatous hamartoma for this entity.
risk of cancer death in first-degree relatives of patients with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome (lynch type ii): a study of 130 kindreds in the united kingdom. to estimate the relative risks of cancer in first-degree relatives of index patients, 130 pedigrees of dominantly inherited lynch type ii cancer family syndrome have been analysed. the risk of death from all causes was significantly increased in women over 45 years of age and the overall liability to cancer in women was greater than for men. a sevenfold increase in risk of colon cancer was found in both sexes. in female relatives the risk of breast cancer was increased fivefold and lifetime risk of breast cancer was 1 in 3.7. a screening programme based on estimated risks could be offered to first-degree relatives of index patients with lynch type ii cancer family syndrome.
primary neoplasms of the hollow organs of the gastrointestinal tract. staging and follow-up. the number of imaging modalities available to stage and follow-up patients with primary neoplasms of the gastrointestinal (gi) tract continues to increase. magnetic resonance imaging (mri), computed tomography (ct), and ultrasonography are useful techniques for both staging and follow-up. for staging, ct is most frequently used for the detection of liver metastases and is increasingly used as a substitute for the chest radiograph in the detection of lung metastases. ct is still the imaging test of choice for the preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma. ct is less helpful in staging the patient with gastric carcinoma or colorectal carcinoma. the current usefulness of mri in the staging of gi tract malignancies is limited by the lack of an adequate oral intraluminal contrast agent and degradation of images due to motion. sonography, especially the new technique of endoscopic ultrasound, is promising for the detection of local invasion from gi tract malignancies. ct is used in the follow-up of patients with tumors of the gi tract to detect liver, adrenal, and nodal metastases as well as local recurrence because of the ability of ct to detect extraluminal masses. ct of the pelvis has been recommended as a routine follow-up procedure in patients who have undergone abdominal-peroneal resection. both ct and mri can be used to detect local recurrence, but suffer from the inability to differentiate scar from recurrent tumor. the initial hope that mri would be capable of differentiating postoperative scar tissue from recurrent tumor has not been realized. therefore, with positive ct or mri findings, occasionally a percutaneous biopsy will be required to confirm local recurrence.
care of diabetic patients by optometrists in new york state. objective: this study was undertaken to learn about the involvement of optometrists in the eye care of diabetic patients in new york and to collect baseline data for planning intervention programs in diabetic eye disease. research design and methods: this study was conducted by a mail survey being sent to all optometrists in new york whom we could identify through state sources (n = 2270). three follow-up mailings were conducted. results: eighty-six percent who received our mailing responded, 87% of whom reported that they see diabetic patients. analysis was confined to this 87%. routine retinal examinations were provided by 68% of the respondents who see diabetic patients, 62% of whom dilate the pupils. sixty-eight percent who see diabetic patients diagnose retinopathy solely by their own examination, and 60% of these dilate. follow-up of retinopathy was provided by 15% of optometrists who see diabetic patients, 90% of whom dilate the pupils of their diabetic patients. twenty-five percent of respondents who see diabetic patients refer them to an ophthalmologist for diagnosis of retinopathy, and 67% refer all retinopathy patients to an ophthalmologist for follow-up. although 91% of respondents recommended eye examinations at least annually for diabetic patients, only 68% specifically recommended annual examinations through dilated pupils. those who dilate were significantly more likely to recommend annual dilated examinations than those who do not dilate, regardless of practice setting. conclusions: these findings indicate that optometrists as a group see many diabetic patients. intervention strategies should include increased emphasis on the use of dilation when examining diabetic patients and annual dilated retinal examinations.
cytotoxic chemotherapy induces cell differentiation in small-cell lung carcinoma. despite the high response rates resulting from chemotherapy, the majority of small-cell lung cancer (sclc) patients relapse with chemoresistant tumors. to analyze the phenotypic changes that are precursors of chemoresistant status, and to investigate the role of chemotherapy in these changes, tumor samples from 20 patients, taken before chemotherapy (etoposide, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide) and again at the onset of chemoresistance (after at least three courses of chemotherapy), were compared. the histologic changes were minor in 10 of 20 patients, as shown by an increase in cell size; they were major in 10 of 20 patients, with the appearance of mixed composite tumors in which neuroendocrine (ne), epidermoid, and glandular components were mixed. major changes correlated with a good response to chemotherapy (p = .001). ultrastructural studies showed an increase in neurosecretory granules and desmosomes, and a high frequency of multidirectional differentiation (45%) when comparison was made with pretherapy samples (10%) (p less than .01). immunohistochemical (ih) analysis showed an increase in cytokeratin (ck) expression in treated patients, with a different labeling pattern and the expression of higher molecular weight ck. the expression of ne lineage markers (leu 19, sy 38, sl 11-14) remained stable, while that of ne differentiation markers (leu 7, chromogranin) increased in the treated patients. the neuron-specific enolase (nse) activity remained stable in treated sclc. large cells with a more differentiated phenotype and proliferative capacity (as shown by ki 67 labeling), appeared to be characteristic of treated and secondary chemoresistant sclc. the acquisition of a more complex phenotype, which correlates with primary response to therapy, implies a drug-induced differentiation in sclc.
mucin production by human colonic carcinoma cells correlates with their metastatic potential in animal models of colon cancer metastasis. patients with mucinous colorectal cancers characteristically present with advanced disease, however, the relationship between mucin production by colon cancer cells and their metastatic potential remains unclear. we therefore sought to define the relationship between mucin production by human colon cancer cells and metastatic ability by employing animal models of colon cancer metastasis. ls lim 6, a colon carcinoma cell line with high liver metastasizing ability during cecal growth in nude mice produced twofold more metabolically labeled intracellular mucin and secreted four- to fivefold more mucin into the culture medium compared to poorly metastatic parental line ls174t. this was accompanied by a similar elevation in poly(a)+ rna detected by blot hybridization with a human intestinal mucin cdna probe, and increases in mucin core carbohydrate antigens determined immunohistochemically. variants of ls174t selected for high (hm 7) or low (lm 12) mucin synthesizing capacity also yielded metastases after cecal growth and colonized the liver after splenic-portal injection in proportion to their ability to produce mucin. inhibition of mucin glycosylation by the arylglycoside benzyl-alpha-n-acetyl-galactosamine greatly reduced liver colonization after splenic-portal injection of the tumor cells. these data suggest that mucin production by human colon cancer cells correlates with their metastatic potential and affects their ability to colonize the liver in experimental model systems.
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with i-131 meta-iodobenzylguanidine. from february 1986 to december 1988, 31 children with advanced pretreated neuroblastoma were treated with 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine (131-mibg). thirteen children had been resistant to first-line therapy, three had suffered a local relapse, and fourteen had suffered a disseminated relapse without over bone marrow infiltration. one child was treated initially because of resistance to first-line therapy, and subsequently for a local relapse. a total of 72 courses of 131-mibg was administered, with doses ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 gbq (median, 3.7 gbq). one child received five courses, two four courses, 13 three courses, four two courses, and 12 one course of 131-mibg. the most common toxic effect was thrombocytopenia, with a platelet level of less than 50,000/cmm occurring after 19 of 60 evaluable courses. a leukocyte count less than 1000/cmm was seen only once. there were six major responses (two complete) lasting 4 to 9 months, and two minor responses lasting longer than 38 and 44 months. responses were seen more commonly in children whose only lesion was a residual primary tumor and in children who had not been pretreated who experienced disseminated relapse. further studies of the role of 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine in treatment of neuroblastoma are needed.
carcinoma of the pancreas: a retrospective review. eighty-five patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were reviewed in order to evaluate the efficacy of our methods of diagnosis and treatment. the most useful diagnostic test was percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography (ptc) with a diagnostic rate of 96%. pancreaticoduodenectomy (whipple procedure) and total pancreatic resection were performed in 13 and 2 patients, respectively. the remaining 50 patients underwent various palliative drainage procedures. twenty patients did not undergo operation for various reasons. the primary tumor was found in the head of the pancreas in 50 patients (59%), the body in 6 patients (7%), and in the tail in 8 patients (9%). postoperative complications, including sepsis, bleeding, intra-abdominal abscesses, and anastomotic leaks, occurred in 37% of the patients. there were one operative and 9 postoperative deaths. the average survival for those patients undergoing surgical intervention was 6 months. there were no 5-year survivors.
endometriosis associated with massive ascites and absence of pelvic peritoneum. although massive ascites associated with endometriosis has been reported in rare cases, this patient was also noted to have massive destruction of the pelvic peritoneum. failure of medical suppression necessitated total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. several months after surgery ascites resolved, possibly with reestablishment of the pelvic peritoneum.
utility of upper endoscopy in the evaluation of noncardiac chest pain. the diagnostic yield of esophagogastroduodenoscopy, esophageal manometry, and bernstein testing was assessed in 100 consecutive patients being evaluated for non-cardiac chest pain. manometric studies revealed the nutcracker esophagus in 21 patients; non-specific esophageal motility disorders in 19 patients; a hypertensive lower esophageal sphincter in 4 patients; diffuse esophageal spasm in 2 patients; and normal motility in 54 patients. endoscopy was normal in 38 patients; but revealed grades ii to iv esophagitis in 24 patients; gastritis and/or duodenitis in 18 patients; a sliding hiatal hernia without evidence of esophagitis in 14 patients; and gastric or duodenal ulcers in 6 patients. twenty-five individuals were found to have normal manometric studies in combination with a negative bernstein test. among these 25 patients, however, 7 patients had esophagitis (grade ii or higher); 6 patients had gastritis and/or duodenitis; five patients had a sliding hiatal hernia without esophagitis; 1 patient had peptic ulcer disease; and only 6 patients had a normal endoscopic exam. our results indicate that endoscopy can identify a significant number of patients with acid-peptic disease who present with non-cardiac chest pain, that would not have been otherwise diagnosed by esophageal manometry or bernstein testing alone or in combination.
clinical, radiographic, and hemodynamic correlations in chronic congestive heart failure: conflicting results may lead to inappropriate care. purpose: clinical and radiographic examinations are commonly used for estimating severity and titrating therapy of chronic congestive heart failure. the purpose of this study was to establish the relationship between findings on history, physical examination, chest roentgenogram, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (pcwp). patients and methods: fifty-two consecutive patients with chronic congestive heart failure, referred for evaluation for heart transplantation, were studied; all patients underwent history, physical examination, upright chest roentgenogram, and cardiac catheterization. the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 +/- 0.06. patients were divided into three groups according to their pcwp: group 1, normal pcwp (less than or equal to 15 mm hg, n = 19); group 2, mild to moderately elevated pcwp (16 to 29 mm hg, n = 15); group 3, markedly elevated pcwp (greater than or equal to 30 mm hg, n = 18). results: physical and radiographic signs of congestion were more common in the groups with higher pcwp, but they could not be used to reliably separate patients with different filling pressures. physical findings (orthopnea, edema, rales, third heart sound, elevated jugular venous pressure) or radiographic signs (cardiomegaly, vascular redistribution, and interstitial and alveolar edema) had poor predictive value for identifying patients with pcwp values greater than or equal to 30 mm hg. these findings had poor negative predictive value to exclude significantly elevated pcwp (greater than 20 mm hg). radiographic pulmonary congestion was absent in eight (53%) patients in group 2 and seven (39%) in group 3. in patients in group 2 and 3, those without radiographic congestion were in a better new york heart association functional class (3.5 +/- 0.5 versus 2.8 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.01). there was good correlation between right atrial pressure and pcwp (r = 0.64, p less than 0.001). a normal right atrial pressure had no predictive value, but a pressure greater than 10 mm hg was seen in all but one patient with a pcwp value greater than 20 mm hg. conclusion: clinical, radiographic, and hemodynamic evaluations of chronic congestive heart failure yield conflicting results. absence of radiographic or physical signs of congestion does not ensure normal pcwp values and may lead to inaccurate diagnosis and inadequate therapy. it is not known whether therapy aimed at normalizing pcwp is superior to relieving clinical and radiographic signs of congestion.
relation between intraventricular pressure and volume in diastole. the pressure-volume curves for 10 patients with various types of heart disease were studied throughout mid to late diastole when both pressure and volume were increasing. the results were used to test a currently held theory that the form of this relation is exponential. it was found that for the patients examined this hypothesis was not valid.
abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries. the causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial. cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation, pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization. right heart (especially right ventricular) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 (81%) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 (46%) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. in contrast, only 2 (6%) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests (p less than 0.001). none of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests. cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. no relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing. thus, patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli. this increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain. the same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown.
immunological studies before and during interferon therapy in chronic hbv infection: identification of factors predicting response. lymphoblastoid interferon is effective therapy in some but not all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection. to assess whether immunological parameters were predictive of response to interferon therapy, we determined the human leukocyte antigen type, cd4/cd8 ratio, natural killer cell activity, igm anti-hbc antibody levels and concanavalin a-induced lymphocyte proliferative response in 30 patients before treatment. in addition, to investigate the mechanisms of action of interferon in promoting hepatitis b virus clearance, we serially measured the cd4/cd8 ratios, natural killer activity and lymphocyte proliferative response at wk 4, 8 and 12 of treatment. a beneficial response to therapy was defined as the sustained clearance of hbeag and serum hepatitis b virus dna within 1 yr of commencing therapy. elevated igm anti-hbc levels were associated with a beneficial response to therapy, but there was no correlation observed between response and pretreatment cd4/cd8 ratio, natural killer activity or lymphocyte proliferative response. six of seven human leukocyte antigen dr3-positive patients responded. no measurable changes in the immunological parameters studied were observed in the nonresponder group, whereas a significant rise in cd4/cd8 ratio, associated with a fall in peripheral cd8 number and a decline in measurable nk activity, was seen in the responder group. these changes were maximal at the time of hepatitis b virus dna clearance, which was associated with a transient increase in hepatic inflammation.
symptomatic pancreatic heterotopia treated by local excision. non-ulcer dyspepsia is a continuing problem and in many cases a precise cause is never identified. we present five patients with an allegedly uncommon condition--pancreatic heterotopia. they were managed by local excision of the tumour and after a mean (range) follow up of 42 (9-80) months all remain free of the original symptoms.
prognosis of hospital survivors after salvage from cardiopulmonary bypass with centrifugal cardiac assist. since october 1986, 6 hospital survivors who were salvaged from cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) with the sarns centrifugal pump were observed. centrifugal assist was employed only after failure to wean with usual resuscitative measures, including multiple high dose inotropes and intraaortic balloon pumping. there were five men and one woman, 46-59 years of age (mean 61 years). all patients had undergone coronary artery bypass grafting, with two patients having had concomitant left ventricular aneurysmectomy and two aortic valve replacement. five patients had left ventricular assist only and one had biventricular assist. duration of assist ranged from 26 to 72 hr (mean 48 hr). complications were ubiquitous, and the resultant prolonged hospitalization was resource intensive. all hospital survivors remain alive and are in new york heart association functional class ii, with an average follow-up of 24 months, (6-41 months). compared with preoperative values, current left ventricular function is improved in 2 patients, has deteriorated in 3, and is unchanged in 1. thus, the sarns centrifugal pump will allow salvage of some patients who otherwise are not weanable from cpb. survivors can expect a reasonable functional capacity as reflected by this experience.
hemodynamic and endocrine effects of mental stress in untreated borderline hypertension. mental arithmetic and mirror tracing were compared in 40 untreated patients with borderline hypertension, tested in random sequence in standardized protocols. both tasks significantly increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac index, plasma renin, and decreased peripheral resistance. mental arithmetic also increased cholesterol, triglycerides and hdl; plasma catecholamines were not changed significantly. lipid changes were correlated with blood pressure changes. these methods will be useful in exploring the relationships between hemodynamic reactivity to stress, and the presence and progression of atherosclerosis, as well as testing the effects of antihypertensive drugs on stress-induced changes that may influence atherosclerotic complications of hypertension.
comparative studies of du-pan-2, carcinoembryonic antigen, and ca19-9 in the serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases: evaluation of the influence of obstructive jaundice. the levels of du-pan-2 antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, and ca19-9 in serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases were measured. the sensitivities (true positive) of du-pan-2 in serum to pancreatic carcinoma (64%) and to biliary tract carcinoma (62%) were similar to those of ca19-9 in serum (69% and 72%, respectively). nine of 18 (50%) patients with ca19-9-negative pancreatic carcinoma tested positive for du-pan-2. the sensitivities of cea to pancreatic carcinoma (56%) and to biliary tract carcinoma (52%) were lowest. the measurement of these antigens in bile seemed to be of little diagnostic value in differentiating between malignant and benign diseases. false positives of these three assays occurred frequently in patients with benign pancreatic or biliary tract disease coupled with obstructive jaundice. after percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage, serum du-pan-2 and ca19-9 levels returned to normal ranges in patients with benign diseases, but not in patients with carcinoma of the pancreas or of the biliary tract. serum ca19-9 and du-pan-2 antigens are useful tumor markers for pancreatic and biliary tract carcinomas. longitudinal assays of these antigens may be useful for the differential diagnosis of patients with obstructive jaundice.
lip paresthesia associated with a jaw mass. a case is reported in which mandibular swelling and lower lip numbness were the first signs of a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung. the development of paresthesia, with or without other oral symptoms, requires that a diagnosis of malignancy be considered until confirmed or ruled out by tissue biopsy. a thorough head and neck examination in all patients, especially in those whose history or habits may indicate increased risk of malignancy is necessary.
treatment of high-risk solid tumors of childhood with intensive therapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation. autologous bone marrow transplantation (abmt) allows delivery of intensive, marrow-ablative chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy to children with high-risk solid tumors. results from several studies of neuroblastoma suggest that outcome is improved by abmt; however, relapses can occur months to years after complete clinical remission. other high-risk tumors including peripheral neuroepithelioma, ewing's sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, wilms' tumor, and brain tumors also appear to be responsive to intensive marrow-ablative therapy, although few studies have been reported. for tumors that can metastasize to marrow, a sensitive method is necessary for detecting tumor cell contamination. immunocytologic analysis with monoclonal antibodies can identify one neuroblastoma cell per 10(5) normal marrow cells; this method also is applicable to other tumors with appropriate antibodies. ex vivo removal (purging) of tumor cells decreases the probability of infusing tumorigenic cells with the abmt. there is considerable experience in tumor detection and purging for neuroblastoma, but little has been done for other childhood solid tumors. future investigations of abmt will aim to further increase disease-free survival by intensifying induction and marrow-ablative regimens and by developing therapies to be given after abmt that are directed at minimal residual disease. as pilot investigations mature, the efficacy of abmt and conventional chemotherapy will be compared in multi-institution randomized studies.
blood rheology after cardiac valve replacement with mechanical prostheses or bioprostheses. arterial thromboembolism is a serious complication in patients after heart valve replacement. abnormalities in blood rheology may contribute to this complication. therefore, the aim of this study was to compare various determinants of blood rheology in patients with substitute heart valves with those in healthy controls; furthermore, differences between patients with mechanical valves and those with bioprostheses should be investigated. the hemorrheologic determinants--fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, hematocrit and platelet aggregation--were studied in 92 patients with mechanical bileaflet valves, in 28 patients with bioprostheses and in 29 control subjects; the time since valve replacement was greater than or equal to 9 months. fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell and spontaneous platelet aggregation were found to be increased in all patients after heart valve replacement compared with normal subjects (fibrinogen: 348 +/- 87 vs 267 +/- 66 mg/dl, p less than 0.01; plasma viscosity: 1.71 +/- 0.1 vs 1.66 +/- 0.1 mpas, p less than 0.05; red cell aggregation: 9.9 +/- 2 vs 7.8 +/- 2 u, p less than 0.01; platelet aggregation: 22 +/- 15 vs 13 +/- 13%, p less than 0.01); among patients, fibrinogen, plasma viscosity and spontaneous platelet aggregation were higher in mechanical valves than in bioprostheses (fibrinogen: 359 +/- 95 vs 314 +/- 41 mg/dl, p less than 0.01; plasma viscosity: 1.72 +/- 0.1 vs 1.68 +/- 0.1 mpas, p less than 0.1; platelet aggregation: 23 +/- 15 vs 16 +/- 11%; p less than 0.05), whereas no difference could be found for red cell aggregation (9.7 +/- 2 vs 10.5 +/- 2%, p greater than 0.05).
acute respiratory disease in spain: seven years of experience the clinical and epidemiologic features of viral and nonviral pathogens involved in acute respiratory diseases are described in the context of cases of infection (especially atypical pneumonia and bronchiolitis) studied at the centro nacional de microbiologia, virologia e immunologia sanitarias in madrid during a 7-year period (1979-1986). these etiologies were demonstrated in 1,637 (36.2%) of 4,521 cases. among viruses, respiratory syncytial virus most frequently infected children; influenza virus showed the same pattern of circulation as in other european countries. of nonviral agents, mycoplasma pneumoniae and c. burnetii were most often involved in lower respiratory tract infections, with a variable predominance in patients of different ages. a high proportion of cases of m. pneumoniae infection occurred in infants and children aged less than 1 year, and most of these cases occurred during spring and summer. the majority of q fever cases, including those observed in two outbreaks, occurred in the northern region.
the reliability of frozen sections in the evaluation of surgical margins for melanoma. as the width of surgical margins declines, histologic evaluation of the margins is needed to assess the completeness of excision of a malignant melanoma. we studied 221 specimens in 59 patients and compared the interpretations of frozen and paraffin sections from the same block. frozen sections had a sensitivity of 100% in detecting melanoma when present and a specificity of 90%.
chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome after the treatment of head and neck cancer. a case report. a 62-year-old woman who was being treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck developed a chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome during the second cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin, bleomycin, and methotrexate. though the syndrome was suspected early, attempts at reversing the hematologic and renal abnormalities were unsuccessful. at postmortem examination, the characteristic microvascular lesions of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were found in the kidneys.
perivascular innervation of the cerebral arteries in spontaneously hypertensive rats--an immunohistochemical study. perivascular innervation in cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats and of normotensive wistar-kyoto rats was studied. adrenergic nerve fibers and neuropeptide y-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasoconstrictor nerves, were denser in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats than those of wistar-kyoto rats. in contrast, cholinergic nerve fibers and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance p-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasodilator nerves, remained unchanged in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats, as compared with findings in the wistar-kyoto rats. thus, not only adrenergic nerve fibers but also neuropeptide y-containing nerve fibers may play an important role in preventing the disruption of the blood-brain barrier and the development of hypertensive encephalopathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
surgical management of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancies. comparison of subxiphoid window versus pericardiectomy. there is a lack of consensus regarding optimal surgical management of symptomatic pericardial effusions in patients with malignancies. subxiphoid pericardial window formation (subxiphoid pericardial drainage) has been considered a safe and effective method for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. to ensure adequate drainage, many surgeons prefer the formation of a larger pericardial window by performing either an anterior thoracotomy or a partial/total pericardiectomy. to evaluate the efficacy of these methods for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy, 28 consecutive pericardial surgery cases involving patients with malignancy were retrospectively analyzed. ten patients (group 1) had subxiphoid window formation, whereas 18 patients (group 2) had partial or total pericardiectomy or pericardial window formation by anterior thoracotomy. there was no statistically significant difference (p = 0.22) in the survival rates between these two groups. a median survival time of 2.67 months (range, 0.43 to 26.6 months) was observed in group 1 versus 1.23 months (range, 0.03 to 10.83 months) in group 2. however, a statistically significant difference (p less than or equal to 0.02) in postoperative morbidity was observed between the two groups: 67% in group 2 versus 10% in group 1. because of lower morbidity, subxiphoid pericardial window formation is recommended by this study as the preferred surgical method for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy.
endoscopic ventricular fenestration using a "saline torch". the fiberoptic endoscope has never gained popularity among neurosurgeons although it is ideally suited for navigating within the cerebral ventricles. recent advances in optics and miniaturization make the application of endoscopy in neurosurgery more practical. the authors report eight children who underwent ventriculoscopic fenestration of symptomatic loculated cerebrospinal fluid (csf) collections. these csf collections were either isolated ventricular cysts or trapped lateral ventricles secondary to obstruction at the foramen of monro. cyst wall dissection was carried out with a "saline torch" dissector which was introduced through a working channel in the ventriculoscope. the torch was used to coagulate vessels and to sculpt large windows in cyst walls or in the septum pellucidum. ventriculoscope-guided cyst fenestration can be performed safely and easily under direct vision. the technique may permit simplification of shunt systems in some patients and elimination of shunts in others.
effects of exercise on myocardial catecholamine content and ischemic injury in dogs with gradual coronary occlusion. the effects of exercise on catecholamine content and the extent of myocardial damage in dogs with ameroid constrictor occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery were determined. tissue samples from both the anterior and posterior walls of the left ventricle were obtained for determination of catecholamine content, and the rest of the ventricles were processed for histologic examination. when subjected to treadmill exercise for 40 days after surgery, obstructed animals performed significantly less exercise than sham-operated animals and showed significantly higher percentages of ischemia and necrosis in the left ventricle than sedentary, obstructed, sham-operated, or control dogs. levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine in the posterior wall of the left ventricle were significantly lower than in the other groups. our data show that exercise in this well-known model of chronic coronary artery stenosis produced deleterious effects on the myocardium and suggest a marked heterogeneity of catecholamine stores in the myocardium that may have important functional and electrophysiologic consequences.
placenta previa. a placenta previa, whether found fortuitously by ultrasound or with the clinical emergency of maternal hemorrhage, carries significant maternal and fetal risk. accurate diagnosis, judicious expectant management with transfusion as required, and delivery at the time of fetal lung maturation can lead to the most favorable outcome. anticipation of the clinical complication of placenta accreta may avoid some serious consequences. clinical judgement and skill in the performance of cesarean sections, dilatation and curettage, and other forms of uterine invasive techniques may help to keep subsequent incidence of placenta previa at a reasonably low rate.
cardiac involvement in aids. cardiac involvement in aids may occur at any stage of hiv disease and may manifest as congestive cardiomyopathy, potentially lethal arrhythmia, or pericardial effusion and tamponade. the heart may be affected by nearly all of the opportunistic infections and many of the malignancies associated with the syndrome. although often clinically unobtrusive, cardiac lesions may be important in the pathogenesis of significant clinical symptoms and play an often unrecognized role in the prognosis and natural history of aids.
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy: atypical presentations. severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death. acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy. this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum. moreover, classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
the reversibility of canine vein-graft arterialization. we assessed the reversibility of functional and morphological changes of arterialized vein segments by returning them to the venous circulation. thirteen dogs underwent right carotid and femoral veno-arterial grafting. after 12 weeks, veno-arterial grafts were removed for contractility (norepinephrine [ne] and 5-hydroxytryptamine [5-ht]), luminal prostacyclin (pgi2), and morphometric analyses; the remaining segments were used as left jugular and femoral veno-venous grafts. after another 12 weeks, the veno-venous grafts were harvested. to ne, veno-arterial grafts (ed50, 5.4 +/- 0.1 [-log m]) were less sensitive than control veins (ed50, 6.0 +/- 0.2) or veno-venous grafts (ed50, 6.4 +/- 0.2) but were more sensitive than control arteries (ed50, 4.0 +/- 0.1); the maximum tension of veno-arterial grafts (6.2 +/- 0.6 g) was greater than that of veins, less than that of arteries (9.8 +/- 1.0 g), and comparable with that of veno-venous grafts (5.1 +/- 1.1 g). to 5-ht, veno-arterial (ed50, 7.5 +/- 0.1) and veno-venous (ed50, 7.3 +/- 0.2) grafts were more sensitive than arteries (ed50, 6.0 +/- 0.3), while the vein was unresponsive; the maximum tension of veno-arterial grafts (5.0 +/- 0.7 g) was less than that of arteries (6.9 +/- 0.9 g) and greater than that of veno-venous grafts (1.4 +/- 0.3 g). pgi2 production in veins (3.6 +/- 0.8 ng/ml), veno-arterial grafts (3.9 +/- 0.8 ng/ml), and veno-venous grafts (3.3 +/- 0.9 ng/ml) was comparable and less than that of arteries (6.4 +/- 0.9 ng/ml). veno-arterial graft intimal thickness (127 +/- 8 microns) and intimal area (15.6 +/- 1.8 x 10(3) microns 2) tended to be greater than that in the veno-venous graft (113 +/- 9 microns and 12.4 +/- 1.8 x 10(3) microns 2); also, the veno-arterial graft medial area (103.0 +/- 7.3 x 10(3) microns 2) was greater than that of the veno-venous graft (80.3 +/- 6.9 x 10(3) microns 2), thereby resulting in a similar relative intimal area (13 +/- 1%). therefore, some changes associated with arterialization, for example, adrenergic sensitivity, maximum tension to 5-ht, medial thickening, and perhaps intimal hyperplasia, reverted toward venous values when replaced in the venous environment, possibly due to variations in pressure, flow, shear stress, and/or graft preparation techniques. luminal pgi2 was unchanged in the grafts, implying that graft contractility was not modulated by luminal pgi2.
ocular manifestations of onchocerciasis in a rain forest area of west africa. the epidemiology and natural history of onchocerciasis and its ocular complications in rain forest areas are poorly understood. the present study was conducted on a rubber plantation in a hyperendemic area in the rain forest of liberia, west africa, where 800 persons were examined. the prevalence of infection was 84% overall 29% had intraocular microfilariae, and 2.4% were blind in one or both eyes. onchocerciasis was the cause of all binocular blindness and one-third of all visual impairment. over half of the visual impairment caused by onchocerciasis was due to posterior segment diseases. chorioretinal changes were present in 75% of people, and included intraretinal pigment clumping in 52% and retinal pigment epithelium atrophy in 32%. atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium was associated with increasing age and severity of infection. intraretinal pigment was strongly associated with anterior uveitis. there was a strong correlation between uveitis and the inflammatory chorioretinal sequelae: retinitis, intraretinal pigment, subretinal fibrosis, and optic neuropathy. these findings indicate that considerable visual impairment associated with rain forest onchocerciasis is common and is due largely to chorioretinal disease.
identical splicing of aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor transcripts from amplified rearranged genes in human glioblastomas. the epidermal growth factor receptor gene has been found to be amplified and rearranged in human glioblastomas in vivo. here we present the sequence across a splice junction of aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor transcripts derived from corresponding and uniquely rearranged genes that are coamplified and coexpressed with non-rearranged epidermal growth factor receptor genes in six primary human glioblastomas. each of these six tumors contains aberrant transcripts derived from identical splicing of exon 1 to exon 8 as a consequence of a deletion-rearrangement of the amplified gene, the extent of which is variable among these tumors. in spite of this intertumoral variability, each intragenic rearrangement results in loss of the same 801 coding bases (exons 2-7) and creation of a new codon at the novel splice site in their corresponding transcripts. these rearrangements do not, however, affect the mrna sequence for the signal peptide, the first five codons, or the reading frame downstream of the rearrangement.
a detachable balloon procedure for a traumatic internal carotid-internal jugular fistula: report of a case a case of a traumatic fistula between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein is reported. the fistula was treated by detachable balloon occlusion and clipping of the internal carotid artery.
factors determining success and energy requirements for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation. factors thought to affect the success of and energy requirements for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation were studied in 80 (49 male, 31 female) patients aged 21-88 (mean 61.5 years). transthoracic impedance was measured in advance of the countershock using a 30 khz low amplitude ac current passed through self-adhesive ecg/defibrillator pads (diameters 8-12 cm) applied to the chest in the antero-posterior (ap) position in 57 patients and the anteroapical (aa) position in 23 patients. mean transthoracic impedance for all patients was 69.3 +/- 16 (sd) ohms (range 39-131 ohms), but transthoracic impedance was significantly greater in the aa than the ap position (75.4 +/- 13 vs. 66.7 +/- 16 ohms, p = 0.02). initial energy was 50 j (delivered) and was gradually increased to a maximum of 360 j if required. cardioversion was successful in 73 of 80 (91.2 per cent), and low energy shocks (less than or equal to 200 j) were successful in 45 of 80 (56.2 per cent) patients. using single factor analysis, sex, left atrial enlargement, electrode pad positions, aetiology of atrial fibrillation, presence of left ventricular failure, and prior treatment with verapamil or beta-adrenergic blockers were not significant determinants of cardioversion success or success of low energy shocks but prior treatment with digoxin was, both for cardioversion success and success at low energies. in patients with transthoracic impedance less than or equal to 70 ohms, low energy shocks were more often successful (33 or 50, 66 per cent) than in patients with transthoracic impedance greater than 70 ohms (12 of 30, 40 per cent), p = 0.04. using univariate analysis, cardioversion success with low energy shocks was not only significantly associated with prior treatment with digoxin but also with the duration of atrial fibrillation (24 hours to one month and one month to three years) and for shocks of less than or equal to 100 j, with prior treatment with amiodarone. multifactorial linear regression analysis selected, in rank order, only duration of atrial fibrillation of 24 hours to less than one month and one month to three years as significant predictors of both cardioversion success irrespective of shock strength, and success of low energy shocks.
memory complaints in older adults. fact or fiction? complaints of poor memory by patients may be an early symptom of a pathologic process like alzheimer's disease. it is therefore important to determine if patients' complaints of memory impairments are an accurate reflection of real memory disturbance. the relationship between memory complaints (metamemory) and objective memory performance, mood, age, verbal intelligence, and sex was examined in a group of 199 healthy, community dwelling adults (39 to 89 years old). memory complaints demonstrated a stronger association with depressed mood than with performance on memory tests. increasing reports of depressive symptoms were associated with more overall memory complaints. verbal intelligence, age, and sex also contributed to memory complaints. patients with higher verbal intelligence reported fewer complaints and placed less emphasis on forgetting. older individuals reported greater frequency of forgetting and greater frequency of using memory techniques. specific types of memory complaints, seriousness of forgetting, and types of memory aids employed are also described. these results showed that self-rating of memory disturbance by older adults may be related more to depressed mood than to poor performance on memory tests.
osteoma of the middle ear. osteomas involving the middle ear and causing a functional disturbance are rare. we report a case of a patient with an osteoma arising from the lateral semicircular canal. the main symptom was vertigo and to halt this the defect of the canal was obliterated with a bone chip and fibrin glue after removal of the tumour.
cdna cloning and sequencing of human fibrillarin, a conserved nucleolar protein recognized by autoimmune antisera. we have isolated a 1.1-kilobase cdna clone that encodes human fibrillarin by screening a hepatoma library in parallel with dna probes derived from the fibrillarin genes of saccharomyces cerevisiae (nop1) and xenopus laevis. rna blot analysis indicates that the corresponding mrna is approximately 1300 nucleotides in length. human fibrillarin expressed in vitro migrates on sds gels as a 36-kda protein that is specifically immunoprecipitated by antisera from humans with scleroderma autoimmune disease. human fibrillarin contains an amino-terminal repetitive domain approximately 75-80 amino acids in length that is rich in glycine and arginine residues and is similar to amino-terminal domains in the yeast and xenopus fibrillarins. the occurrence of a putative rna-binding domain and an rnp consensus sequence within the protein is consistent with the association of fibrillarin with small nucleolar rnas. protein sequence alignments show that 67% of amino acids from human fibrillarin are identical to those in yeast fibrillarin and that 81% are identical to those in xenopus fibrillarin. this identity suggests the evolutionary conservation of an important function early in the pathway for ribosome biosynthesis.
advances in molecular biology. potential impact on diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the thyroid. advances in molecular biology research continue to have a major impact on clinical medicine. these advances have provided a means to produce proteins previously available in limited supply and allow for the production of novel proteins that are improved agonists or else antagonists with greater specificity for therapeutic targets. newer drug delivery systems should facilitate delivery of these proteins. by combining the capabilities to produce drug targets in acceptable quantities with improved methods for determining the three-dimensional structures of these targets, novel organic therapeutic molecules that act on these targets will be designed. gene transfer therapy using genes that express important proteins or that encode "antisense" rnas that inhibit the translation of specific mrnas will soon become a reality. the use of rflps and pcr methodologies promises increased means to diagnose specific genetic diseases and infections. most importantly, molecular biology is helping to understand the mechanisms of disease such that novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches can be described. these advances are providing an understanding of the mechanisms involved in cancers of the thyroid gland. they have already led to an enhanced understanding of (1) the growth factors that control proliferation of the thyroid gland, (2) the potential steps in thyroid nodule and neoplasia development, (3) particular mutations that may occur as thyroid cancers develop, (4) oncogenes that are expressed in thyroid cancers, and (5) the genetic defects that are responsible for thyroid gland malignancies in the multiple endocrine neoplasia (men) syndromes. with the latter, the rflp technology has already provided an enhanced means to diagnose the disorder. with further progress, enhanced means for diagnosis and treatment should emerge. molecular biology techniques are contributing to an increased understanding of the mechanisms of development of autoimmune thyroid disease as with graves' disease and hashimoto's thyroiditis. the potential role of infections, histocompatibility antigens, thyroid gland and extraglandular antigens, immune modulators, subpopulations of t-cells such as suppressor and helper cells, other cells involved in immune responses, and a combination of influences of several different functions on the thyroid gland are being defined. this knowledge should soon suggest improved means for diagnosis and treatment. understanding of the function of the thyroid hormone receptors should have clinical importance. this knowledge suggests a means to develop thyroid hormone antagonists that may be used to more rapidly ameliorate the effects of hyperthyroidism and could be useful in nonthyroidal disorders such as cardiac arrhythmias.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
acute pain relief. pain is a multidimensional psychophysiologic phenomenon. systematic multidimensional assessment is an essential first component of an effective plan to relieve the pain. nurses are key to effective pain management because of the close, 24-hour-a-day relationship with the hospitalized patient. it is the nurse who is most critical to the adequate assessment of pain, to the implementation of the treatment plan, and to the evaluation of efficacy. nurses should continue to develop a better knowledge base about pain and pain therapies and assessment skills, be assertive in obtaining effective treatment for their patients, and perceive themselves as responsible for pain relief.
magnetic resonance imaging--the evaluation of choice in residual shunt after congenital heart disease surgery? accurate anatomic diagnosis presents a dilemma in patients with residual shunt after corrective surgery for congenital heart disease. we describe a patient who, after atrial septal defect repair, developed dyspnea and central cyanosis despite normal pulmonary arterial pressures and right heart chamber size. a role for early mri is suggested.
paraneoplastic pemphigus. an autoimmune mucocutaneous disease associated with neoplasia. background and methods. we describe five patients with underlying neoplasms in whom painful mucosal ulcerations and polymorphous skin lesions developed, usually with progression to blistering eruptions on the trunk and extremities. histologic examination showed vacuolization of epidermal basal cells, keratinocyte necrosis, and acantholysis. immunofluorescence testing revealed atypical pemphigus-like autoantibodies in perilesional epithelium and serum from all five patients. we studied the antigenic specificities of the autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation, using extracts of 14c-labeled human keratinocytes. igg purified from the serum of one patient was passively transferred to four neonatal mice to test for pathogenicity. results. immunofluorescence testing showed that the autoantibodies bound to the surface of tissues containing desmosomes, including complex and simple epithelia, and myocardium. an identical and unique complex of four polypeptides with molecular weights of 250, 230, 210, and 190 was immunoprecipitated by all serum samples. the 250-kd polypeptide comigrated with desmoplakin i (a protein found in the desmosomes of all epithelia), and the 230-kd antigen comigrated with the antigen of bullous pemphigoid. cutaneous blisters, a positive nikolsky's sign, and epidermal and esophageal acantholysis developed in all mice into which the autoantibody was injected. electron microscopy showed epidermal acantholysis similar to lesions of experimentally induced pemphigus vulgaris. conclusion. these five patients with cancer had a novel acantholytic mucocutaneous disease characterized by autoantibodies that were pathogenic after passive transfer. the autoantibodies from these patients reacted with an antigen complex composed of desmoplakin i and the 230-kd antigen of bullous pemphigoid and two as yet unidentified epithelial antigens. we suggest the term "paraneoplastic pemphigus" for this disease.
hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature. two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay, who developed differing forms of aspergillus-related lung disease, are presented. patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease, whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia. the possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed.
comparison of ulcer surgery at a veterans administration and university hospital. we compared the patient populations and outcome of surgery for peptic ulcer disease in 81 patients at a veterans administration hospital (ovah) and 97 patients at an affiliated university hospital (unh). the surgeons and choice of operation were comparable at both facilities. patients were similar with respect to severity of ulcer disease, percentage of elderly patients and distribution of comorbid conditions. there were significantly more female patients (45% vs 2%, p less than 0.05), patients less than 40 years old (22% vs 6%, p less than 0.05), and patients with gastric ulcers (27% vs 12%, p less than 0.05) at unh. alcoholism was more prevalent at ovah (57% vs 22%, p less than 0.05). postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were 27 per cent and 14 per cent at ovah and 25 per cent and 16 per cent at unh. these data suggest that quality of care for surgical therapy of ulcer disease at a va hospital is comparable to its tertiary care affiliate with a similar patient population.
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas. part 2: in vitro effect of steroids, bromocriptine, and epidermal growth factor on growth of meningiomas. cell culture and biochemical techniques have been employed to examine the effects of steroids, bromocriptine, and epidermal growth factor (egf) on the growth and proliferative potential of meningiomas. in cell culture, the growth of meningiomas was not altered by progestogens, antiprogestogens, or 17beta-estradiol. the progestogen, norethisterone, had no effect on the uptake by meningiomas cell cultures of 3h-thymidine. furthermore, cytosolic deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) polymerase activity of meningiomas did not correlate with the progesterone receptor status of the same tumors. in contrast, the androgen antagonists, cyproterone acetate and 11-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, and the dopamine agonist, bromocriptine, all inhibited the in vitro growth of meningioma cells. the growth of meningioma cell cultures was stimulated by egf, and there was a positive correlation between the egf content and dna polymerase activity in meningioma cytosols. these results demonstrate that female sex steroids do not influence growth of meningiomas in vitro, whereas antiandrogens and bromocriptine have an antiproliferative effect. consequently, bromocriptine and antiandrogens may have a role in the medical treatment of meningiomas. in addition, these results suggest that egf may be involved in the genesis and/or progression of meningiomas.
pathophysiology of ischemic skin flaps: differences in xanthine oxidase levels among rats, pigs, and humans. oxygen-derived free radicals have been implicated in a variety of diseases and pathologic processes, including ischemia reperfusion injury (iri). based on experimental work with rat skin-flap models, the enzyme xanthine oxidase (xo) has been proposed as a major source of free radicals responsible for tissue injury and flap necrosis. the presence of this enzyme is variable within different tissues of a specific species and between species. xanthine oxidase levels in pig and human skin have not previously been reported. the activity of xanthine oxidase in the skin of rats (n = 16), pigs (n = 7), and humans (n = 8) was measured after varying intervals of ischemia and in the rat also following reperfusion. control pig and human skin were found to contain minimal enzyme activity, almost 40 times less than that of the rat. in the rat, xanthine oxidase activity was stable throughout a prolonged period of ischemia, and a significant decrease in activity was found after 12 hours of reperfusion (p less than 0.05). in humans, xanthine oxidase activity was unaffected by ischemia time, and in the pig, it did not increase until 24 hours of ischemia (p less than 0.05). the potential sources of free radicals and the mechanism of action of xanthine oxidase and its inhibitor allopurinol in improving flap survival in different species are reviewed.
superficial femoral artery as inflow for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery. we have obtained long term follow-up on 58 patients in whom the superficial femoral artery was used as a donor site for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery. the indication for the reconstructive procedure was intermittent claudication 36%, rest pain 34%, and gangrene 26%. all patients had angiographic evidence of a patent proximal superficial femoral artery and many had relative indications for short bypass such as limited saphenous vein availability or compromised medical condition. there was a cumulative patency rate of 79% by life table method for the series with a six year follow-up. we have observed that the superficial femoral artery is a satisfactory inflow site for proximal popliteal bypass grafts in selected patients. the procedure can maximize use of a limited segment of vein with minimal operative time and morbidity. inflow stenosis can be revised or long bypass procedures can be offered in the event of graft failure.
plasma therapy for severe hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children in atlantic canada. clinical reports have suggested that therapy with fresh frozen plasma is a useful adjunct in the management of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (hus). we reviewed the charts of 36 children with severe hus who were treated at the izaac walton killam hospital for children, halifax, over 10 years to assess the effectiveness of plasma therapy. all children who required specific supportive therapy for renal dysfunction, hemolysis or serious extrarenal complications were included. we compared the outcome of 18 children who received plasma therapy from 1982 to 1987 with that of 18 children who did not. the two groups were similar with regard to the severity of hus, the length of hospital stay, the duration of renal dysfunction and the incidence of disease-related complications, such as seizures, enterocolitis and cardiomyopathy. at discharge the prevalence of hypertension was higher in the plasma therapy group than in the control group. plasma therapy did not demonstrate any benefit that would outweigh the risk of fluid overload, hyperproteinemia and transmission of viral infection.
idiopathic and symptomatic trigeminal pain. the trigeminal reflexes (corneal reflex, blink reflex, masseter inhibitory periods, jaw-jerk) and far field scalp potentials (nerve, root, brainstem, subcortical) evoked by percutaneous infraorbital stimulation were recorded in 30 patients with "idiopathic" trigeminal neuralgia (itn) and 20 with "symptomatic" trigeminal pain (stp): seven postherpetic neuralgia, five multiple sclerosis, four tumour, two vascular malformation, one tolosa-hunt syndrome, and one traumatic fracture. all the patients with stp and two of those with itn had trigeminal reflex abnormalities; 80% of patients with stp and 30% of those with itn had evoked potential abnormalities. the results indicate that 1) trigeminal reflexes and evoked potentials are both useful in the examination of patients with trigeminal pain, and in cases secondary to specific pathologies provide 100% sensitivity; 2) in "symptomatic" and "idiopathic" paroxysmal pain the primary lesion affects the afferent fibres in the proximal portion of the root or the intrinsic portion in the pons; 3) primary sensory neurons of the a-beta fibre group are involved in both paroxysmal and constant pain, but in the latter the damage is far more severe.
isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey cells from a child with acute interstitial pneumonia who cytologically had giant-cell pneumonia without a rash. the isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey kidney cells (prmk) in patients with documented giant-cell pneumonia who have presented without a rash is limited. the diagnosis usually is made by cytologic examination of nasal or bronchial secretions in which characteristic multinucleated giant cells with intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies are observed. the diagnosis of giant-cell pneumonia has been associated with measles virus but not exclusively. canine distemper, herpes group viruses, and parainfluenza infections have been associated with these cells. in addition, vitamin a deficiency also has been cytologically associated with multinucleated giant cells. the authors describe the isolation of measles virus from bronchial washing and sputum in prmk cells at 4 days from an 11-year-old child with acute interstitial pneumonia who was in remission for acute lymphocytic leukemia. classic cytopathologic effect (cpe) consisting of syncytial and hole formation on the prmk monolayer was apparent. in addition, a foamy appearance of the monolayer was noted in an otherwise clean lot of monkey cells. confirmatory testing with measles antibody of the infected areas of the monolayer by indirect immunofluorescence (ifa) was positive for measles antigen and negative for mumps, parainfluenza (types i, ii, and iii) and influenza a and b virus. serologic studies for measles antibody revealed an ifa igg titer of greater than 1:10,240, and an igm titer of 1:128. cytologic examination of the same bronchial fluid revealed the typical giant cells with characteristic inclusions associated with measles virus. because this disease usually is severe, and often fatal, prompt recognition of this virus is essential, not only to the patient, who can be treated with immunoglobulin and/or antiviral therapy, but also to prevent the spread of the virus to other patients and medical personnel. these findings also support direct evidence for the etiologic role of measles virus in giant-cell pneumonia that has been detected either histologically or cytologically and in tissue culture at autopsy.
successful prophylaxis for fungal peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis: six years' experience [published erratum appears in am j kidney dis 1991 jun;17(6):726] fungal peritonitis as a serious complication of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd) is often associated with severe morbidity, capd "drop-out" and, occasionally, death. most episodes of fungal peritonitis occur during or after a period of antibiotic treatment of various bacterial infections, usually bacterial peritonitis. from april 1979 to december 1982 (period i), 10 episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 415 patient-months, ie, 10.5% of all peritonitis episodes recorded in our capd program. after the introduction of oral prophylaxis with 3 x 500,000 iu [corrected] nystatin during every course of antibiotic treatment, only four episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 2,102 patient-months, ie, 3.1% of all peritonitis episodes from january 1983 to march 1989 (period ii). this difference between the first and second periods is significant (p less than 0.05). moreover, none of the four patients who contracted fungal peritonitis in the second period received nystatin prophylaxis. thus, the simple measure of oral prophylaxis using this nonabsorbable antifungal agent in every case of an antibiotic treatment largely eliminates the risk of fungal peritonitis in patients on capd.
endometrial carcinoma: a pathologic evaluation of 142 cases with and without associated endometrial hyperplasia. the association of some cases of endometrial carcinoma (ec) with hyperestrogenism is well known. the prognostic significance of concomitant endometrial hyperplasia (eh) in ec were evaluated in 142 patients with clinical stage i ec in whom lymph node assessment was carried out in 121 patients. the presence of eh was significantly associated with better differentiated tumor having lesser degrees of myometrial invasion, low segment-adnexal-lymphovascular space and pelvic/para-aortic lymph node involvement. however, the presence of eh was not significantly associated with the less virulent histologic subtypes. the possible existence of two types of ec--a hormonal-dependent ec associated with eh, and an independent ec not associated with eh--is discussed and the prognostic significance of concomitant eh stressed.
idiopathic neutropenia: antineutrophil antibodies and clinical correlations. purpose: the present study was done to evaluate the clinical characteristics of a large series of adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia, and correlate the presence of antineutrophil antibodies, their class (igg or igm), and their ability to fix complement with clinical parameters, including other hemocytopenias, splenomegaly, and infections. patients and methods: one hundred twenty-one adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia were studied. serum neutrophil-binding antibodies were measured using paraformaldehyde-fixed granulocytes (pfgs) from normal volunteers as target cells. 125i-labeled staphylococcal protein a was used to detect igg antibodies while igm antibodies were detected by using 125i-labeled mouse monoclonal anti-igm antibody. sera containing antineutrophil antibodies were tested for their ability to fix complement on donor pfgs by using 125i-labeled monoclonal antibody to the third component of complement. results: of the 121 patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia, 71 patients had isolated neutropenia, while 50 had neutropenia combined with either anemia and/or thrombocytopenia. among the 71 patients with isolated neutropenia, there were 51 females (72%), compared with 28 females (56%) among the 50 patients with combined hemocytopenias (p = 0.083). patients with multiple hemocytopenias were significantly older (p less than 0.01), were more likely to demonstrate splenomegaly (p = 0.001), and may have had more infectious complications. from all the patients, 36% of sera were shown to have antineutrophil antibodies, with a non-significant trend for these to be found more frequently in patients with multiple hemocytopenias. sera with mixed igg-igm antineutrophil antibodies were significantly more likely to fix complement than those with isolated igg or igm antibodies, and among the patients with antineutrophil antibodies, complement-fixing antibodies were significantly associated with multiple hemocytopenias. splenomegaly was significantly associated both with antineutrophil antibodies (p = 0.008) and with infections (p = 0.007). antineutrophil antibodies were not associated with infections. conclusions: approximately one third of adult patients with idiopathic neutropenia have igg and/or igm antineutrophil antibodies demonstrable in their serum. there is a subset of patients with idiopathic neutropenia with multiple hemocytopenias who tend to be older, less likely to show female predominance, more likely to have splenomegaly and infections, and more likely to have antineutrophil antibodies, especially mixed igg-igm and complement-fixing antibodies.
role of epidermal growth factor, prostaglandin, and sulfhydryls in stress-induced gastric lesions. epidermal growth factor promotes the growth of and protects gastric mucosa against various ulcerogens, including stress, but little is known about its role in the pathogenesis of stress ulcerations. in this study, wistar rats with intact and resected salivary glands were exposed to water-immersion and restraint stress. during 2-14 hours of water-immersion restraint stress, the formation of gastric ulcerations increased progressively and the duration of stress was accompanied by a decrease in dna synthesis in the gastric mucosa. following sialoadenectomy, a significant increase in the number of stress ulcerations and further reduction in dna synthesis were observed. exogenous epidermal growth factor and dimethyl prostaglandin e2 significantly reduced the ulcerations in the stressed rats with intact salivary glands, but this reduction was significantly less pronounced after sialoadenectomy. water-immersion restraint stress also resulted in about 50% reduction in mucosal prostaglandin e2 generation, and the pretreatment with indomethacin, which suppressed prostaglandin e2 by about 90%, almost doubled the number of stress ulcerations and abolished the gastro-protective effect of exogenous epidermal growth factor (but not dimethyl prostaglandin e2) against the stress lesions. an inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity by difluoromethyl ornithine also augmented stress-induced ulcerogenesis and abolished the protective action of epidermal growth factor while the administration of spermine almost completely prevented stress ulcerations in rats both without and with pretreatment with difluoromethylornithine. water-immersion restraint stress also significantly reduced mucosal content of glutathione. cysteamine increased tissue glutathione and reduced stress ulcerations but n-ethylmaleimide, an sulfhydryl blocker, decreased mucosal content of glutathione without affecting the stress ulcerations. this study indicates that the stress ulcers are accompanied by the reduction in mucosal synthesis of dna, prostaglandin, and glutathione and that the presence of salivary glands attenuates the stress ulcerogenesis probably by releasing epidermal growth factor which acts, in part, by enhancing ornithine decarboxylase activity, mucosal growth, and prostaglandin and glutathione formation.
cardiac echinococcosis: the diagnostic value of computed tomography scanning. the diagnosis of cardiac hydatid disease is a difficult one. conventional and specific cardiac investigations are not pathognomonic of this disease. in this report, the diagnostic value of computed tomography (ct) scanning was prospectively investigated in seven patients. in five patients, the diagnosis was confirmed surgically. the ct-information obtained correlated accurately to the operative findings. in all the patients, ct-densities of the lesions were measured and were found to coincide with values of mean ct-densities of hydatid cysts elsewhere in the body. the capability of measuring tissue densities is unique to ct-scanning and have been emphasized in this report.
autoantibodies in primary biliary cirrhosis: analysis of reactivity against eukaryotic and prokaryotic 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes. six components of the mammalian 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes have previously been identified as m2 autoantigens in primary biliary cirrhosis. in this report, we present data showing that both polypeptide-specific and cross-reacting antibodies are present in patients' sera. antibodies reacting with e2 of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex cross-react with protein x but not with any other mammalian antigen. the main immunogenic region on protein x has been localized to within its single lipoyl domain. polypeptide-specific antibodies bind to e1 alpha and e1 beta of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. antibodies reacting with the e2 polypeptides of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex and branched-chain 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complex show some cross-reactivity but do not recognize any of the antigens of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. antibodies against the e2 component of the mammalian pyruvate dehydrogenase complex cross-react effectively with the corresponding protein from yeast but not with e2 from escherichia coli. antibody titer against mammalian antigens is significantly higher than against the bacterial antigens, arguing against a bacterial origin for primary biliary cirrhosis.
transfection of c6 glioma cells with connexin 43 cdna: analysis of expression, intercellular coupling, and cell proliferation. c6 glioma cells express low levels of the gap junction protein connexin 43 and its mrna and display very weak dye coupling. when implanted into the rat cerebrum, these cells quickly give rise to a large glioma. to investigate the role of gap junctions in the tumor characteristics of these cells, we have used lipofectin-mediated transfection to introduce a full-length cdna encoding connexin 43. several transfected clones were obtained that exhibited various amounts of connexin 43 mrna transcribed from the inserted cdna. immunocytochemical analysis revealed an increase in the amount of connexin 43 immunoreactivity in the transfected cells, being localized at areas of intercellular contact as well as in the cytoplasm. the level of dye coupling was also assessed and found to correlate with the amount of connexin 43 mrna. when cell proliferation was followed over several days, cells expressing the transfected cdna grew more slowly than non-transfected cells. these transfected cells will be useful in examining the role of gap junctions in tumorigenesis.
extraperitoneal endarterectomy for iliofemoral occlusive disease. sixty patients with iliofemoral occlusive disease were treated by autogenous anatomic reconstruction by endarterectomy. endarterectomy was performed extra-peritoneally by the eversion technique. the operative technique and its advantages and disadvantages are discussed. six patients had postoperative complications of acute anastomotic hemorrhage (two patients), would hematoma (two patients), and atelectasis (two patients). sixty patients discharged with patient arterial reconstruction were followed up from 5 months to 17 1/2 years, with a mean follow-up of 53 months. there were no other vascular complications. seventy limbs were at risk during this period, with an accumulative patency rate of 80.4% at 5 years and 71.4% at 10 years. there were 11 occlusions of the external iliac artery and one stenosis of the common femoral artery. failures occurred mainly in the external iliac artery, which appears to be the limiting factor in the continued patency of endarterectomy. there were 18 deaths (30%). nine deaths were attributed to the complications of arteriosclerosis.
small bowel obstruction associated with a leiomyomatous uterus. a case report and review of the literature. a 38-year-old woman developed small bowel obstruction shortly after a cholecystectomy because of a massively enlarged leiomyomatous uterus. small bowel obstruction is a relatively rare complication from fibroid tumors and results from entrapment of the bowel between serosal pedunculated fibroids (as in this patient), adhesions to infarcted leiomyomas, or from compression of the small bowel by the large mass. large uterine leiomyomas clearly must be considered in the etiology of intestinal obstruction.
soluble interleukin-2 receptors in cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with various neurological disorders. soluble interleukin-2 (il-2r) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) were studied in infectious, inflammatory, degenerative, and neoplastic disorders to evaluate their usefulness as a marker for the presence of activated t cells, thus indicating an inflammatory process. csf from control subjects and patients with stationary, progressive, and treated multiple sclerosis (ms); aseptic meningitis; lymphoid and nonlymphoid central nervous system (cns) tumors; alzheimer's disease, as well as serum from ms patients and control subjects were studied for levels of soluble il-2r. a significant increase in csf il-2r levels was observed in patients with ms, meningitis, and lymphoid cns tumors; the ms group showed the highest values. csf from individuals with alzheimer's disease and from patients with nonlymphoid tumors did not show significantly elevated values. serum il-2r levels were significantly higher in ms patients than in control subjects, but there was no significant correlation between individual serum and csf il-2r levels. this study suggests the presence of activated t-lymphocytes in the cns of patients with ms.
stage transitions in b-lymphocyte differentiation correlate with limited variations in nuclear proteins. total nuclear proteins extracted from cell lines representing various stages of differentiation of mouse b lymphocytes were studied by computer analysis of two-dimensional gels. of the 1438 spots present on the gels, 55 varied significantly in intensity during differentiation. the variations occurred most often in steps correlating with those classically defined for b-cell differentiation. seventeen spots were not detectable in at least one of the stages (qualitative variations) and could represent switching on or off of genes coding for nuclear proteins. detailed analysis of the 55 variable spots showed that they fall into small sets characterized by similar expression profiles, which argues for a combinatorial, multistep control mechanism of gene expression. in addition, analysis of the expression of all the nuclear proteins resolved on the gels clearly differentiated b-lineage cells from myeloid cells and suggested that the most important transition in b-cell differentiation occurs between the resting b cell and plasmocyte stages.
acute autonomic neuropathy. two cases and a clinical review. acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome, usually affecting healthy young people. presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common. we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature. acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension (26%) or pandysautonomic (74%) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions. onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20% of cases, with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks. gastroparesis (69%) and syncope (12%) are frequent presenting complaints. spinal fluid protein levels are often (75%) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes. prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule (60%), with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension. other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism, porphyria, amyloidosis, and paracarcinomatous neuropathies. acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy (guillain-barre syndrome), suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis.
management of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess. three cases of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess are reported. two patients were successfully managed by a combination of medical therapy and surgery. the third patient died suddenly 36 hours after admission to hospital.
cystocerebral syndrome. acute urinary retention presenting as confusion in elderly patients. the diagnosis of acute mental status changes in the elderly patient is often very difficult. many causes are possible, and there is often little history obtainable. the physical examination occasionally provides the essential clues needed to discover the source of the sudden deterioration. we have recently evaluated four episodes of acute delirium in three elderly patients who presented with no readily apparent cause for these changes. on further evaluation, the patients were found to have marked bladder distention associated with acute urinary retention. none of these patients complained of discomfort, and none had any awareness or recollection of their deterioration. each patient had rapid resolution of symptoms on bladder decompression. to our knowledge, this "cystocerebral syndrome" has not been previously described, and we suggest that it be considered in the evaluation of acute confusional states in elderly men.
clinical and anatomical considerations for surgery in aortoiliac disease and results of surgical treatment. a variety of surgical procedures are available for the treatment of occlusive disease involving the aorta and iliac arteries. use of the most appropriate operation in each patient, determined principally by disease location and patient risk, can provide highly effective relief of disabling claudication or limb-threatening ischemia with low morbidity and mortality rates. the excellent, durable results of current surgical practice should serve as the standard with which newer treatment modalities must be compared.
the rapid detection of clonal t-cell proliferations in patients with lymphoid disorders. a series of t-cell proliferations in peripheral blood, bone marrow, or tissue samples were analyzed for clonality. the technique used employs the polymerase chain reaction to amplify portions of the rearranged t-cell receptor beta chain genes, using primers recognizing conserved sequences of the variable, diversity, and joining region segments. we examined 17 cases of t-cell lymphoma or leukemia; a clone was identified in 13 cases (76%) overall and in 7 of 8 cases (87.5%) in which both beta-chain alleles were known to be rearranged, as shown by restriction enzyme analysis. no clonal rearrangements were detected in samples from 13 non-t-cell disorders, including b-cell lymphomas, reactive lymphoid proliferations, and nonlymphoid tumors. this method is useful for detecting clones in thymic and post-thymic t-cell malignancies and has the advantages of being extremely rapid (a result is obtained within hours of the biopsy procedure), requiring no radiolabeling, using only a small amount of tissue, and being applicable to formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue.
abnormalities of von willebrand factor multimers in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome. purpose: to analyze and review von willebrand factor (vwf) multimeric patterns in patients with single-episode thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp), intermittent ttp (episodes at infrequent, irregular intervals), chronic relapsing ttp (episodes at frequent, regular intervals), and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (hus). patients and methods: platelet-poor plasma samples were obtained in edta, citrate, or citrate-hirudin-aprotinin-leupeptin from 36 patients with single-episode ttp, eight patients with intermittent ttp, four patients with chronic relapsing ttp, and 26 patients with hus. the samples were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-agarose gel electrophoresis, overlaid with rabbit 125i-anti-human vwf igg, and analyzed by autoradiography. results: abnormalities of vwf multimers were found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 patients (86%) at the onset of and during their single ttp episode. vwf multimers larger than those in normal plasma, and similar to vwf forms observed within normal human endothelial cells (unusually large vwf multimers), were demonstrated in 31% of the patients; 19% had either unusually large vwf multimers or a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms in different serial samples; 36% had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms. these results imply that endothelial cell injury or intense stimulation, along with the attachment of unusually large vwf multimers and the largest plasma vwf forms to platelets, occurred during the single ttp episodes in most patients. patterns of vwf multimers were normal in 92% of patients with single-episode ttp studied after recovery. all eight patients with intermittent ttp and the four patients with chronic relapsing ttp had unusually large vwf multimers in their plasma between episodes, and these multimers decreased or disappeared during relapses. of 26 children and adults with hus, 14 had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf multimeric forms and one had unusually large vwf multimers during the episode (vwf multimeric abnormalities in 58% of the patients). conclusion: it is probable that vwf was involved in the pathophysiology of ttp in most of these patients with the single-episode, intermittent, or chronic relapsing types of ttp, and in more than 50% of the patients with hus.
light scattering detection of microemboli in an extracorporeal lvad bovine model. thromboembolization studies were performed on two calves supported by extracorporeal left ventricular assist devices (lvad) using a light scattering (he ne laser) microemboli detector (lsmd). the lsmd system was placed on the outflow cannula of the lvad in the extracorporeal loop of each animal. the measurements included the size, number, and rate of production of circulating microemboli in the range 20 microns less than microemboli diameter less than 1,000 microns. these data were compared to independently and concurrently obtained measurements of emboli shear rate (cpf), platelet count, red blood count (rbc), leukocyte count (wbc), plasma free hemoglobin, factors xiii, x, and v, and sorbitol dehydrogenase. embolic number and volume were seen to be most dynamic in the very early phases of acute thromboembolization (0-40 minutes) with a peak embolic response within the first 30 minutes. the dynamics of reduced emboli volume, rather than number, may be implicated in the later stages of the thromboembolic passivation of these ventricles. the lsmd results generally showed an inverse correlation of microemboli volume rate with cpf measurements for each ventricle. lsmd, cpf, and leukocyte and platelet counts, showed a direct correlation with reduced counts for each additional ventricle for both calves. factor xii was seen to have a more direct correlation in time with lsmd measurements for each ventricle than other parameters under investigation. this study represents the first time laser scattering and filtration methods have been applied simultaneously with hematologic assays in order to study the dynamics of device associated thrombogenesis.
improving diagnostic accuracy of cervical metastases with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. elective neck dissection in patients with head and neck cancer continues to be controversial. the management of these patients would be greatly facilitated by improvements in predicting cervical metastases. recent investigations have suggested that computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are more sensitive in detecting cervical metastases than physical examination. the department of otolaryngology at the ohio state university hospitals, columbus, undertook a prospective study to compare the preoperative sensitivities of physical examination, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging with pathologic findings in 27 patients undergoing neck dissections for head and neck cancer. the results indicate that computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were more sensitive (84% and 92%, respectively) than physical examination (75%), although the results did not achieve statistical significance. the sensitivity of combined computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging was 90%.
homeobox gene expression plus autocrine growth factor production elicits myeloid leukemia. in the murine myelomonocytic leukemia wehi-3b, proviral insertions have induced expression of the hox-2.4 homeobox gene and the gene for the myeloid growth factor interleukin 3 (il-3). to assess their potential oncogenic role, normal bone marrow cells were infected with retroviruses bearing the genes for il-3 or il-3 plus hox-2.4. unlike the il-3 virus, the il-3/hox-2.4 virus was highly leukemogenic. infected cells expressing both genes exhibited retarded differentiation in vitro, generated myelomonocytic cell lines, and provoked a rapid, transplantable myeloid leukemia in vivo. the oncogenic action of hox-2.4 appears to derive from its ability to impede the il-3-driven terminal differentiation of myeloid cells. the results suggest that homeobox genes can regulate key differentiation processes such as self-renewal capacity and that their inappropriate expression can be oncogenic.
color doppler diagnosis of mechanical prosthetic mitral regurgitation: usefulness of the flow convergence region proximal to the regurgitant orifice. in prosthetic or paravalvular prosthetic mitral regurgitation, transthoracic color doppler flow mapping can sometimes fail to detect the regurgitant jet within the left atrium because of the shadowing by the prosthetic valve. to overcome this limitation, we assessed the utility of color doppler visualization of the flow convergence region (fcr) proximal to the regurgitant orifice in 20 consecutive patients with mechanical prosthetic mitral regurgitation documented by surgery and cardiac catheterization (13 of 20 patients). in addition, we studied 33 patients with normally functioning mitral prostheses. doppler studies were performed in the apical, subcostal, and parasternal long-axis views. an fcr was detected in 95% (19 of 20) of patients with prosthetic mitral regurgitation. a jet area in the left atrium was detected in 60% (12 of 20) of patients. in 18 of 19 patients with doppler-detected fcr, the site of the leak was correctly identified by observing the location of the fcr. a trivial jet area was detected in eight patients with a normally functioning mitral prosthesis; in none was an fcr identified. thus color doppler visualization of the fcr proximal to the regurgitant orifice is superior to the jet area in the diagnosis of mechanical prosthetic mitral regurgitation. moreover, fcr permits localization of the site of the leak with good accuracy.
the comportmental learning disabilities of early frontal lobe damage. two adult patients are described who suffered bilateral prefrontal damage early in life and who subsequently came to psychiatric attention because of severely aberrant behaviour. a battery of developmental psychology paradigms (not previously used to assess neurologically impaired individuals) showed that social and moral development of these 2 patients was arrested at an immature stage. in comparison with other types of brain damage which disrupt cognitive development, frontal damage acquired early in life appears to provide the neurological substrate for a special type of learning disability in the realms of insight, foresight, social judgement, empathy, and complex reasoning.
idiopathic biliary ductopenia in adults: a report of five cases. the clinical and pathological findings of five adult cases of idiopathic nonsyndromatic paucity of interlobular bile ducts are reported. patients were 18-32 years old at the onset of the disease; four presented with pruritus and/or jaundice and one with bleeding of the esophageal varices. two patients were siblings. serum alkaline phosphatase counts ranged from 1 to 16 times the upper normal value, and total bilirubin counts ranged from 0.6 to 8.8 mg/dl (10 to 150 mumol/l). initial liver biopsy showed portal and periportal fibrosis with cholangiolar proliferation and reduction in the number of interlobular bile ducts. antimitochondrial antibodies were absent, and bile ducts were normal after opacification. the patients were observed for 3-11 years. repeated liver biopsies in the five patients showed progression of the lesions, with development of biliary type cirrhosis in four. two of the four patients with cirrhosis died of hepatic failure 3 and 11 years after onset of the disease. in the two other cases, liver transplantation was performed successfully. these cases suggest that chronic cholestasis with marked ductopenia resembling the nonsyndromatic paucity described in infancy and childhood may reveal itself at an adult age. this disorder, possibly familial, may rapidly progress to severe and even fatal liver disease and could be a new indication for liver transplantation.
the distribution of cerebral muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo in patients with dementia. a controlled study with 123iqnb and single photon emission computed tomography. a high-affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist, 123iqnb (3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate labeled with iodine 123), was used with single photon emission computed tomography to image muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in 14 patients with dementia and in 11 healthy controls. high-resolution single photon emission computed tomographic scanning was performed 21 hours after the intravenous administration of approximately 5 mci of iqnb. in normal subjects, the images of retained ligand showed a consistent regional pattern that correlated with postmortem studies of the relative distribution of muscarinic receptors in the normal human brain, having high radioactivity counts in the basal ganglia, occipital cortex, and insular cortex, low counts in the thalamus, and virtually no counts in the cerebellum. eight of 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of alzheimer's disease had obvious focal cortical defects in either frontal or posterior temporal cortex. both patients with a clinical diagnosis of pick's disease had obvious frontal and anterior temporal defects. a region of interest statistical analysis of relative regional activity revealed a significant reduction bilaterally in the posterior temporal cortex of the patients with alzheimer's disease compared with controls. this study demonstrates the practicability of acetylcholine receptor imaging with 123iqnb and single photon emission computed tomography. the data suggest that focal abnormalities in muscarinic binding in vivo may characterize some patients with alzheimer's disease and pick's disease, but further studies are needed to address questions about partial volume artifacts and receptor quantification.
spontaneous rupture of the spleen in initial presentation of hodgkin's disease. a 46-year-old man presented with a four-week history of fevers, occasional chills, and a two-week history of sweats and poor appetite. he also complained of progressive weakness and lethargy. after initial evaluation, while awaiting further consultation, the patient developed rapidly progressing abdominal pain and light-headedness. he was moved immediately into the emergency treatment area. he was noted to have an acute abdomen and was taken to surgery. an enlarged hodgkin's-infiltrated spleen with an actively bleeding hematoma was removed. the patient denied any history of trauma.
measurement and treatment in cerebral palsy: an argument for a new approach. this article describes the need for a shift in our therapeutic strategies for patients with cerebral palsy. changes in functional abilities must be stressed in therapy. coincident with this emphasis must be the development of functional assessments to be used when documenting intervention outcomes. research on functional arm movement using kinematic analysis is described for this patient group.
plaque morphology and pathologic changes in arteries from patients dying after coronary balloon angioplasty morphologic correlates of pathologic success or failure were studied at autopsy in 28 patients with 40 coronary arteries that had been subjected to balloon angioplasty. the presence of the following histologic features was evaluated: plaque concentricity or eccentricity, calcification, fibrous or fibropultaceous plaque, medial disruption, luminal thrombus and inflammation. angioplasty was considered successful (residual cross-sectional luminal area greater than 25%) on pathologic examination in 14 arteries and unsuccessful in 26 arteries. eccentric plaques were more likely to be successfully dilated than were concentric lesions (p less than 0.05). six (50%) of 12 fibropultaceous plaques were successfully dilated compared with only 8 (29%) of 28 fibrous plaques. moderate to severe calcification did not preclude morphologic success. medial stretching or dissection, or both, was more often associated with a successful result. thus, plaque morphology may be an important determinant of pathologic outcome after coronary angioplasty.
balloon valvuloplasty for fungal endocarditis induced stenosis of a bioprosthetic tricuspid valve. palliative treatment was provided without complications by double balloon valvuloplasty of a stenotic porcine tricuspid valve in a patient with fungal endocarditis. with two 15 mm diameter valvulotomy balloons the peak tricuspid gradient decreased from 21 to 7 mm hg and valve area increased from 0.3 to 1.2 cm2. after the procedure the patient clinically improved; however, valve replacement was not performed as planned because the patient developed an intracranial hemorrhage. she subsequently died of complications of fungemia. the present report demonstrates the possible use of valvuloplasty as a palliative procedure in selected patients with valvular stenosis involved with endocarditis.
cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord: report of 2 unusual cases. we present 2 cases of spinal cord intramedullary cavernous hemangioma; 1 patient is the 1st reported case of multiple spinal cord lesions. diagnosis is greatly enhanced by the use of mri.
high-output left ventricular failure after dextran use in an operative hysteroscopy. high-output left ventricular failure occurred in a patient after a difficult case of hysteroscopic lysis of adhesions using dextran as a distension medium. the excessive dissection in the uterine wall, the long duration of the operation, and the large volumes of dextran probably caused intravasation of dextran into the systemic circulation inducing a significant shift of fluids from the third space. this was possibly assisted by the large volume of fluids given intravenously in a 45-kg patient initiating the reported sequence of events.
primary malignant melanoma in the parotid gland. reports of primary malignant melanoma arising from the parotid salivary gland are extremely rare and, to date, have been sporadic. we report a pertinent case, and tabulate and correlate the clinical findings of the 13 cases reported thus far in the literature. the most common symptom is a progressively enlarging, asymptomatic, firm, and fixed mass. total excision has been the established treatment of choice. the contribution of radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy remains unclear, and it is not possible at present to predict the outcome of treatment in individual patients. although rare, primary malignant melanoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of parotid tumors. the clinical significance of establishing the diagnosis of primary malignant melanoma of the parotid gland is emphasized.
effects of the phospholipase inhibitor mepacrine on injury in ischemic and metabolically inhibited adult isolated myocytes. the phospholipase inhibitor mepacrine has been shown to delay cell death of metabolically inhibited cultured cardiomyocytes. the present study was initiated to determine if mepacrine also delays cell death and development of osmotic fragility of both metabolically inhibited and ischemic adult rat cardiomyocytes. isolated myocyte suspensions were incubated with 3 mmol/l (millimolar) iodoacetic acid and 6 mmol/l amytal (inhibited) or were pelleted into a slurry and layered with oil (ischemic) in the presence and absence of 10 or 50 mumol/l (micromolar) mepacrine. rates of contracture, cell viability as determined by trypan blue permeability, cell viability after osmotic swelling in 170 mosm media (osmotic fragility), and cell morphology were monitored. mepacrine had no effects on rates of contracture, but was found to significantly delay cell death during isotonic incubations of both metabolically inhibited and ischemic cells. in contrast, mepacrine had no effect on the development of osmotic fragility. incubation of metabolically inhibited myocytes in calcium-free media did not delay contracture or cell injury, but did attenuate the protective effects of mepacrine. this study confirms previous reports that mepacrine protects cells from injury, extends the observations of protection to ischemic isolated adult myocytes, but shows that development of osmotic fragility is not inhibited by mepacrine.
a new method for mapping hepatic subsegment: counterstaining identification technique. hepatic subsegmentectomy requires identification of the borders of tumor-bearing subsegment, usually achieved by injecting dye into the portal veins feeding the domain. we describe an alternative technique for performing systematic subsegmentectomy in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, in whom hepatic arterial and portal venous embolizations were already performed as a preoperative adjuvant. under ultrasonic guidance, each of the neighboring portal units is sequentially stained, thus defining the avascular subsegment to be resected as the nonstaining area. this allows the subsegment to be totally resected. this counterstaining identification technique can be used for all subsegments undergoing complete embolization and for other situations in which the usual staining method is impossible because of the presence of arterioportal shunting or portal tumor thrombus.
the somatic patient. a significant proportion of patients seen in the emergency department will present with somatic complaints for which there is no apparent physiologic cause. such patients may be divided into two broad categories: (1) those with symptoms and signs consciously synthesized by the patient, either for obvious secondary gain (malingering) or as a result of more subtle and complex motivations (factitious disorders); and (2) those patients with symptoms that are the unconscious expression of psychological stress (somatoform disorders). the somatoform disorders include (1) somatization disorder (characterized by a chronic history of numerous and widely divergent somatic complaints), (2) psychogenic pain disorder (somatization expressed in terms of persistent pain), (3) hypochondriasis (a conviction that one is diseased and disabled in conjunction with a well-focused constellation of supporting symptoms), and (4) conversion disorder (a single, usually nonpainful neurologic symptom, often with identifiable coping value for the patient). the first three disorders have been aggregately termed the "common somatization syndrome." management of the somatically focused patient includes the communication of a caring attitude to the patient in conjunction with a cautious and diligent search for treatable medical or psychiatric illness. resocialization and development of patient links with ongoing, nurturing nonmedical as well as medical support systems is of benefit.
proximal femoral allografts in revision hip arthroplasty. we followed prospectively 69 patients with 78 proximal femoral allografts performed for revision of total hip arthroplasty for an average of 36 months (range 29 to 68). large fragment proximal femoral allografts and cortical strut allografts were successful in 85%. grafts smaller than 3 cm in length (calcar grafts) were clinically successful in 81%, but 50% underwent significant radiographic resorption. we conclude that large proximal femoral allografts and cortical strut allografts provide dependable reconstruction of bone stock deficiencies during revision total hip arthroplasty.
high risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease. although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90% effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease, it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued. to address this question, we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years (range 5 to 12 years). before the transfusions were discontinued, patients were examined by cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging of the head, neuropsychologic testing, electroencephalography, and a complete neurologic examination. within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped, 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event. three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected. two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage, including one on the contralateral side of original involvement. an additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes. of the four remaining patients, three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped. the studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke. the risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10% in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy (p = 0.002). this adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised.
congenital cyst of common bile duct: an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice. congenital cysts, sometimes referred to as nonparasitic biliary cysts, are not unusual findings in the liver parenchyma, but they have not been previously described in the common bile duct. this clinical report describes a 41-year-old woman with obstructive jaundice that was caused by congenital cysts. the patient had obstruction of the middle portion of the common bile duct; therefore the major differential diagnostic considerations were cholangiocarcinoma, cancer of the pancreas, or true biliary cysts. congenital cysts, retention cysts, and neoplastic cysts cannot be differentiated from other true cysts preoperatively. diagnosis can only be established by microscopic examination after surgical excision.
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy. we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls (group c, n = 11), diabetic patients (group d, n = 8), and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy (group dn, n = 6) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states. by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner, peak systolic velocity, peak diastolic forward velocity, end-diastolic forward velocity, and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal. the vessels' diameters in centimeters were also measured. after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients. the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery (0.7 cm) and celiac artery (0.8 cm) did not change. flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal. in the control group, peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38%, peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66%, and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70%. in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15%, 98%, and 100%, respectively. these changes were statistically significant (p less than 0.01). on the other hand, the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities. moreover, this alteration in blood flow velocity, although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina, did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning.
prevalence and severity of the premenstrual syndrome. effects of foods and beverages that are sweet or high in sugar content. the objective of this study was to evaluate whether certain foods and beverages that are high in sugar content or taste sweet are related to the prevalence and severity of the premenstrual syndrome. specifically, we sought to evaluate whether consumption of "junk foods", chocolate, caffeine-free cola, fruit juices or alcoholic beverages might exert an effect on the premenstrual syndrome apart from any effects of daily consumption of beverages that are high in caffeine (caffeine-containing coffee, tea and colas). the study was based on 853 responses to a questionnaire probing menstrual and premenstrual health and certain daily dietary practices; it was mailed to female university students in oregon. an analysis of the data revealed that the consumption of chocolate, but not of other junk foods, was related to the prevalence of the premenstrual syndrome among women with more severe premenstrual symptoms. likewise, the consumption of alcoholic beverages (all alcoholic beverages and beer only) was related to the prevalence of the premenstrual syndrome among women with more severe symptoms, as were both fruit juice and caffeine-free soda. none of the associations was substantially altered when the daily consumption of beverages high in caffeine content was controlled for. taken together, these data suggest that the consumption of foods and beverages that are high in sugar content or taste sweet is associated with prevalence of the premenstrual syndrome.
preliminary results of the norwegian doxazosin postmarketing surveillance study: a twelve-week experience. the study was designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of doxazosin in the control of blood pressure in general medical practice; the results presented concern the first 748 patients evaluated over a 12-week period. blood pressure was significantly reduced after treatment with doxazosin (-13/-9 mm hg), and heart rate was not significantly altered. in addition, doxazosin significantly reduced total cholesterol levels (-6.7%), reduced triglyceride levels (-19.8%), increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (+2.5%), and the high-density lipoprotein:total cholesterol ratio (+9.7%). the calculated risk of coronary heart disease was reduced by 20.5% over a 12-week period. thirty-five percent of patients reported at least one side effect, and the number of patients experiencing severe adverse reactions was small. twenty patients (2.7%) discontinued treatment because of adverse events, and 2.7% had the dose of doxazosin reduced.
arteriovenous malformation of the tongue. polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful. additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue. we conclude that embolization therapy can be used, but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined.
rapid eye movement sleep deprivation as a probe in elderly subjects. the effects of a 2-night rapid eye movement (rem) sleep deprivation (rsd) procedure on electroencephalographic sleep and mood were examined in 15 healthy elderly control subjects, 14 elderly patients with endogenous depression, and 15 patients with primary degenerative dementia. compared with control subjects, both patient groups maintained a higher amount of rem sleep time and rem activity during rsd. unexpectedly, depressed patients showed little rebound in visually scored or automated rem sleep measures following rsd, and they showed stability of rem activity temporal distribution from baseline to recovery conditions. this contrasted with the rebound in rem sleep activity seen in control subjects, and the more modest increase in demented patients. the rsd was fairly specific, with some impact on delta sleep during the procedure but not during recovery sleep. mood ratings were unaffected by rsd. these findings demonstrated a greater plasticity of rem sleep regulation in the healthy elderly control subjects and suggested a higher rem "pressure" with a "ceiling effect" in depressed patients. patients with dementia appeared to have an impaired capacity to respond to the challenge of rsd.
delayed pharyngoesophageal perforation: a complication of anterior spine surgery. stabilization of the cervical spine is often accomplished via an anterior cervical approach. bone grafts and/or plates and screws are used to achieve stabilization. injuries to the pharynx and esophagus are known complications in anterior exposure of the cervical spine. these injuries are manifest in the early postoperative period. reports of late perforations are very rare. we present four cases of delayed injury to the pharynx and esophagus that resulted in abscess or fistula. we postulate that graft displacement with resulting erosion was responsible for these serious complications. postoperative odynophagia in patients who undergo anterior cervical fusion warrants evaluation of the bone graft location. early surgical intervention and repair may decrease prolonged morbidity in these patients.
short stature, mental retardation, and hypoparathyroidism: a new syndrome. eight children (four boys and four girls) with extreme failure to thrive, dysmorphic features, developmental delay, hypoparathyroidism, and abnormal skeletal survey were studied. they were the products of seven consanguinous marriages, two of the patients being brothers. in the remaining six families, a further four children had affected siblings who had died in infancy. when assessed the children were aged 0.47-12.8 years; sd scores were less than -2 for height, weight, and head circumference in all patients. the children had identical facies with deep set eyes, depressed nasal bridge with beaked nose, long philtrum, thin upper lip, micrognathia, and large floppy earlobes. they were all developmentally retarded. the following abnormalities were found on investigation: hypocalcaemia in all (of whom six of seven had hypoparathyroidism), medullary stenosis and other skeletal survey defects in seven of the eight children, and reduced numbers of t cell subsets in four of four tested. we believe that these children represent a new, as yet undescribed genetically determined syndrome.
pain on common bile duct injection during ercp: does it indicate sphincter of oddi dysfunction? the reproduction of a patient's biliary-type pain upon initial injection of contrast material into the common bile duct during diagnostic ercp is a dramatic experience for both patient and physician. the significance of this phenomenon is not clear, but it is touted by some to be a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction. sphincter of oddi manometry was performed on 224 consecutive patients referred over a 2-year period for evaluation of post-cholecystectomy syndrome and suspected sphincter of oddi dysfunction. all patients received only intravenous diazepam as premedication for ercp. delayed drainage time (greater than 45 min), bile duct dilation (greater than or equal to 12 mm), and a basal sphincter of oddi pressure of greater than 40 mm hg (mean +/- 3 sd) were considered elevated. we observed a reproduction of pain in 15 of 224 patients (6.7%) immediately following contrast injection. there was no correlation between pain on contrast injection and elevated basal sphincter of oddi pressure, delayed common bile duct drainage, bile duct dilation, or abnormal liver enzymes. therefore, we feel that reproduction of the patient's biliary-type pain associated with contrast injection of ercp is not a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction.
venous ulcers: pathophysiology and medical therapy. venous ulcers may occur as a result of lower extremity calf pump failure, with ensuing edema, trapping of white blood cells and deposition of pericapillary fibrin. acute, smaller lesions are easily treated with adequate compression and occlusive dressings. larger, more chronic wounds often benefit from some form of external compression. occlusive dressings and local wound care are most effective when used simultaneously with compression. sequential compression pumps merit study and may prove to be of therapeutic and prophylactic value. in refractory cases, long-term use of compression devices may be required to prevent ulcer recurrence.
plasma exchange in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis: a long-term study. plasma exchange (pe) was shown in a previous double-blind randomized controlled study to confer significant additional benefit at 1 year upon patients with chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (cpms) treated with immunosuppressive drug therapy (isdt). efficacy over an extended term, indications for retreatment, and long-term toxicity are dealt with in this analysis of a larger number of patients. during the past 7 years, 200 patients with cpms have been treated with pe and low-dose isdt at this center. improvement on the kurtzke disability status scale by one or more steps post-therapy and at 3-year follow-up is significant by comparison with pre-pe disability status. clinical improvement was maintained in the majority of patients, reaching as far as a 6-year follow-up. major life-threatening complications attributable to this combined therapy were not observed.
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis. a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry (fcm). overall, there was an 84% correlation between cytologic and fcm results. of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination, fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 (56%). image analysis (ia) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks. in addition, fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign (false negative). aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64% of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia. twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy (predictive value = 96%). the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst. fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present, whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed. when an aneuploid peak is present, a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected, and, if the initial cytologic screen is negative, a critical review of the cytology slides is justified. in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram, additional investigation is warranted. in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid (in this study 36%) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection, leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique.
bacteriologic findings with ectopic pregnancy. the fallopian tubes and peritoneum of 27 patients were cultured at the time of salpingotomy/salpingectomy to determine if active tubal infection was the cause of post-operative temperature elevations. infection was documented in six patients (22%). previous exposure to chlamydia trachomatis was documented with 2 endocervical cultures and 17 serum specimens positive for igg antibody. the culture results, however, did not correlate with the postoperative febrile morbidity.
cervical spine stabilization. a three-dimensional, biomechanical evaluation of rotational stability, strength, and failure mechanisms. the three-dimensional rotational biomechanical properties of several different types of posterior stabilizing procedures are reported. a severe ligamentous and bony injury was simulated with three vertebral body human cervical spine segments. good stabilization was noted for all of the repairs in flexion loading. without polymethylmethacrylate supplementation, none of the repairs was stable in extension. all of the repairs provided reasonable stabilization for lateral bending except for the posterior wiring without methacrylate, and all but the posterior wiring and facet fusion provided reasonable stabilization against axial rotation loading. the supplementation of all of these repairs with polymethylmethacrylate added considerably to the stability of all the constraints. these findings may be useful in clinical decision-making for determining the kind of repairs and postoperative brace protection to use.
congenital dilatation of the bile duct in 100 instances and its relationship with anomalous junction [published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 mar;172(3):246] congenital dilatation of the bile duct (cdbd) or choledochal cyst has been demonstrated to be associated with an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system. multifarious clinical signs and symptoms of cdbd have been shown to be closely related with the presence of this anomalous junction. in the present study, 100 instances of cdbd treated surgically at our institutions during a 30 year period were classified into two types according to the morphologic features of dilatation of the bile duct; there were 77 instances of the cystic type and 23 of the cylindric type. morphologic features of the lesion, clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory findings in these 100 instances were clinically analyzed. in almost all of the patients who were less than one year of age, the disease was of the cystic type and patients presented with either a palpable mass or jaundice as the main symptom. in patients more than one year of age, the disease was of either the cystic or cylindric type. a history of episodes of characteristic abdominal pain accompanied by elevated levels of serum amylase was present in 70 of the patients with the cystic type of disease and in all of the patients with the cylindric type. histologic sections from the patients showed glandular formation with chronic inflammation, possibly a result of refluxed activated pancreatic juice; in contrast, histologic sections from the remaining patients of all ages showed only thickening of the fibrous layer. thus, such variable morphologic features and clinical signs and symptoms in cdbd are highly dependent on two factors--the age at onset and the reflux of pancreatic juice into the bile duct through the common channel.
the role of fistulography in fistula-in-ano. report of five cases. a retrospective review of 27 patients undergoing anal fistulography is presented. the etiology of the 27 fistulas studied are as follows: cryptoglandular infection in 18, ibd in 7 (crohn's 6, cuc 1), iatrogenic in 1, and foreign body perforation in 1. twenty-six fistulograms revealed either direct communication with the anus or rectum, or abscess cavities/tracts, or both. two fistulograms revealed no radiographic evidence of fistula (one patient had two fistulograms). in 13 of the 27 patients (48 percent) information obtained from the fistulograms revealed either unexpected pathology (n = 7) or directly altered surgical management (n = 6). we conclude that anal fistulography in properly selected patients may add useful information for the definitive management of fistula-in-ano.
neuropsychological aspects of learning disabilities in epilepsy. cognitive impairment is regarded as the link between epileptic conditions and the inability to learn in school. the neuropsychological approach to learning disabilities in epilepsy, therefore, first concentrates on analyzing the differential effects of epileptic factors on cognitive function. the impact of seizure activity, localization of epileptogenic foci, and antiepileptic treatment on cognitive functioning can be evaluated based upon the results of continuous assessment with a computerized neuropsychological test system. second, learning disabilities may be evaluated on observations made during classroom performance. three issues seem to predominate in learning studies among disabled children with epilepsy: test-retest variability, deterioration, and the supposed specificity of the learning disabilities.
skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele and osteomyelitis. a case of skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele is presented. while the similarity in clinical signs between sinus mucocele and malignancy has recently been emphasized in the literature, no previous case of skull base malignancy following frontoethmoid mucocele has been reported. the literature is reviewed and the association between inflammatory conditions and sinus malignancy is outlined.
successful control of bleeding from gastric antral vascular ectasia (watermelon stomach) by laser photocoagulation. we report a case of gastric antral vascular ectasia in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis in whom chronic blood loss was a major problem. she required repeated blood transfusions that were complicated by reactions and still had persistent anaemia. she was treated with laser phototherapy in the form of quadrantic photocoagulation with a neodynium yttrium-aluminium-garnet laser. this greatly improved the endoscopic appearance of the gastric lesions and effectively controlled blood loss. she required no further transfusions. bleeding recurred after 11 months which was controlled by further laser photocoagulation.
replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis. septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand. despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery. at operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium. nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation.
temporal relationship between the decrease in arterial pressure and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis. it has been proposed that the initial event of sodium retention in cirrhosis is a peripheral arteriolar vasodilation causing underfilling of the arterial vascular compartment and stimulation of the renin-aldosterone and sympathetic nervous systems. to test this hypothesis, systolic blood pressure, sodium balance and urinary excretion of sodium and aldosterone were sequentially measured in 13 conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats submitted to a cirrhosis induction program with carbon tetrachloride and phenobarbital and in 14 control hypertensive animals. no significant differences were found between control and cirrhotic rats in any of the measured parameters during the first 7 wk of the study. the eighth week sodium retention developed in cirrhotic rats as indicated by a positive sodium balance and a marked decrease of sodium excretion. at the same time a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure and a great increase in urinary excretion of aldosterone were detected. these changes were more marked the ninth week of the study. in cirrhotic rats there was a highly significant direct correlation between systolic blood pressure and urinary sodium excretion. postmortem examination showed a histological picture of cirrhosis in all animals given carbon tetrachloride and ascites in six of them. these results indicate that the onset of hyperaldosteronism and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis is chronologically related to a significant decrease in arterial pressure, thus supporting the "peripheral arterial vasodilation hypothesis" of ascites.
radiographic identification by mastoid sinus and arterial pattern. a skull and some incomplete postcranial remains were discovered in two searches over a two-month period near santa fe, new mexico. the discoveries could be demonstrated to be from the same person, and the remains were shown to be consistent with a specific missing person on the basis of anthropological analysis. further work led to a positive identification on multiple grounds, including agreement of the details of the mastoid sinus and endocranial arterial patterns observed radiographically. these features may be useful for establishing positive identification from skeletal remains when antemortem radiographic studies for comparison are limited to lateral cranial vault studies.
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome. fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist. in this study, we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease (djd) and 46 normal controls. ninety (73%) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 (37%) djd patients and none of the normal controls (p less than 0.001). ninety-nine patients (81%) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern, and 77 (63%) had alternating diarrhea and constipation. in contrast, only 24 (44%) of djd patients and six (13%) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 (22%) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea (p less than 0.01). other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas (59%), nausea (21%), diarrhea (9%), and constipation (12%). seventy-nine (64%) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47% of the time. laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group (19%) and absent in the other two groups. fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients, compared to 28% of djd patients, felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease (p less than 0.05). in conclusion, patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed. if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed, appropriate treatment may improve patients' symptoms, although this approach requires further study.
evaluating cervical cone biopsy specimens with frozen sections at hysterectomy. frozen section evaluations of cervical cone biopsy specimens were performed at the time of hysterectomy to exclude invasive cervical cancer. during a two-year period we prospectively evaluated 43 cone biopsy specimens. we found all the diagnoses made with frozen sections to be accurate when compared with prospective permanent sections, and all patients received appropriate therapy. thirty-eight cases showed no evidence of invasion. two patients had invasive squamous cell cervical cancer, one had invasive cervical adenocarcinoma extending to the endometrial cavity, and two had microinvasion. all invasive cancers were diagnosed correctly with frozen sections and confirmed with permanent sections. when hysterectomy immediately followed conization, no complications occurred, and no significant increase in blood loss was noted. we found frozen section evaluation of a cone biopsy specimen at the time of hysterectomy to be a reliable procedure that saves time, eliminates the risk of additional anesthesia and decreases patients' costs.
late deaths after treatment for childhood cancer. an investigation of 749 deaths occurring among 4082 patients surviving at least five years after the diagnosis of childhood cancer in britain before 1971 has been undertaken. of the 738 with sufficient information the numbers of deaths attributable to the following causes were: recurrent tumour, 550 (74%), a second primary tumour, 61 (8%), a medical condition related to treatment of the tumour, 49 (7%), an traumatic death unrelated to the tumour or its treatment, 34 (5%), finally, any other cause unrelated to the tumour or its treatment, 44 (6%). less than 10% of five year survivors of non-hodgkin lymphomas, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, wilms' tumour, or a soft tissue sarcoma died of recurrent tumour during the next 15 years, while more than 25% of five year survivors of hodgkin's disease, ependymoma, medulloblastoma, and ewing's tumour died of recurrent tumour during the corresponding period. almost 50% of five year survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia died of recurrent disease during the corresponding 15 years, a large proportion of deaths being due to central nervous system relapse in an era before central nervous system prophylaxis was routinely given. comparison of the mortality observed with that expected from mortality rates in the general population indicated three times the expected number of deaths from non-neoplastic causes. five times the expected number of deaths from cardiovascular causes were observed, these were predominantly myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents. there was no evidence of an excess in the number of suicides observed, but there were three times the expected number of deaths from accidents observed after central nervous system tumours.
resection of the primary liver cancer of the hepatic hilus. primary liver cancer (plc) of the hepatic hilus was designated as a tumor situated at the main branch of the portal vein or pedicle of the hepatic veins in contact with the intrahepatic vena cava. that is, the main tumor located at segment i, iv, v, or viii and concentrating on the central part of the liver was called "the central type of plc," which differed from a tumor located at segment ii, iii, vi, or vii; the latter was called "the peripheral type of plc." surgical treatment of the plc has been significantly improved in the past two decades, but the resection of the central type of plc is difficult and hazardous. this institution admitted 903 plc from january 1970 to april 1988, of which 118 cases were the central type; 65 cases were resected successfully, a resectability of 55.1%. one patient died from sepsis within 1 month of operation (mortality 1.53%). the modes of operation for the different segments are described, and suggestions for improvements are presented. the survival rates were compared with a similar number of patients with the peripheral type of tumor in the same period and treated by the same surgeons. the results show noticeable differences. the one-year, three-year, and five-year survival rates after resection were 70.9%, 43.2%, and 39.2% in the central type of plc; they were 98.3%, 85.0%, and 76.4% in the peripheral type of plc (p less than 0.001). further discussion of improvements in surgical techniques and mental awareness are suggested.
syncytial giant-cell hepatitis. sporadic hepatitis with distinctive pathological features, a severe clinical course, and paramyxoviral features. background and methods. we describe a new form of hepatitis, occurring in 10 patients over a period of six years, characterized clinically by manifestations of severe hepatitis, histologically by large syncytial giant hepatocytes, and ultrastructurally by intracytoplasmic structures consistent with paramyxoviral nucleocapsids. results. the patients ranged in age from 5 months to 41 years. the tentative clinical diagnosis before biopsy was non-a, non-b hepatitis in five patients and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in the others. five patients underwent liver transplantation; the others died. the diagnosis of syncytial giant-cell hepatitis was established pathologically. the liver cords were replaced in all 10 patients by syncytial giant cells with up to 30 nuclei. in 8 of the 10 the cytoplasm contained pleomorphic particles of 150 to 250 microns, filamentous strands, and particles of 14 to 17 nm with peripherally disposed spikes resembling paramyxoviral nucleocapsids. structures resembling degenerated forms were found in the other two patients. one of two chimpanzees injected with a liver homogenate from the index patient had an increase in the titer of paramyxoviral antibodies, probably an anamnestic reaction to previous paramyxoviral infection, suggesting that a paramyxoviral antigen but not viable virus was present in the liver homogenate. conclusions. although further virologic studies will be required for precise classification, we believe that paramyxoviruses should be considered in patients with severe sporadic hepatitis.
captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice. i have reported a case of captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice. this drug is being used with increasing frequency, so it is important that physicians recognize this adverse effect. captopril-induced jaundice resolves after cessation of captopril therapy.
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy. cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person, presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition. for this reason, patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically. since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy (nine women and two men, mean age 73 years) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy. nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage, which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times, the frontal lobes four times, the temporal lobes four times, and the occipital lobes twice. these nine patients underwent hematoma removal, with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage. six patients improved neurologically, and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period. during follow-up in seven patients (median 11 months, range 1 week to 74 months) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve. two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia, also without surgical complications. this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures, and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma.
black-white differences in cancer prevention knowledge and behavior. data from the 1987 national health interview survey cancer control supplement were used to estimate multivariate logistic regression models of diet change, mammography utilization, stool blood test utilization, and smoking. predictor variables included race, sex, age, income, dietary concerns, and four knowledge-related variables: education and three measures of cancer prevention knowledge. when knowledge variables were included in the models, race was not a significant predictor of behavior, with one exception: among women, blacks were found to smoke less than whites.
adoptive immunotherapy with high-dose interleukin-2: kinetics of circulating progenitors correlate with interleukin-6, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor level. immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (il-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (lak) cells results in significant tumor regression in patients with advanced cancer. we have investigated the kinetics of circulating erythroid (bfu-e) and granulocytic-macrophage (cfu-gm) progenitors after il-2 therapy in 11 cancer patients, mainly affected by metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. administration of il-2 from day 1 through day 5 constantly induced a dramatic decrease of the number of circulating bfu-e and cfu-gm, which then showed a striking rebound (up to values fourfold and sevenfold higher, respectively, than the pretherapy levels) on discontinuation of il-2, ie, from day 5 through day 10. a similar kinetic pattern was observed during and after the second cycle of il-2 administration. 3[h]-thymidine killing experiments showed that the cycling activity of the progenitors was virtually unmodified in the rebound phases. to explore the mechanism(s) underlying this kinetic pattern, we have analyzed the plasma concentration of several hematopoietic growth factors, including il-1 beta, il-3, il-4, il-6, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), g-csf, and erythropoietin (ep). no modifications in the levels of il-3, gm-csf, or il-1 beta were observed, whereas a pronounced increase of il-6 and g-csf concentration was monitored, starting at day 3 and peaking at day 5 of treatment (a parallel, but modest, increase of ep level was also observed). the elevation of il-6 and g-csf concentration is directly correlated with and may, at least in part, underlie the subsequent rebound of circulating hematopoietic progenitors. furthermore, the increase in il-4 level observed at day 10 of therapy may mediate the eosinophilia gradually starting at this stage of treatment.
pain experiences of intensive care unit patients. the purpose of this study was to describe various dimensions of the pain experiences of intensive care unit (icu) patients. a purposive, primarily surgical sample of 24 icu patients from two hospitals was interviewed after transfer from icu. all but one patient remembered their icu stay. although this and six other patients had no recall of pain, 63% of the sample rated their pain as being moderate to severe in intensity. in a subgroup of nine patients having cardiac surgery, mean morphine sulfate administration during the first three postoperative days was 14 mg/day. this group of patients reported a lack of total pain relief from analgesics. patients also described various sources of their pain, difficulties they had in communicating their pain, and nonpharmacologic methods that helped relieve their pain. results of this study clearly indicate that not only pain but its communication and treatment were significant problems for a substantial portion of this icu sample. further descriptive and experimental research of pain characteristics and treatment practices for icu patients is urgently needed. improvements in nursing practice that result from such research may make a substantial difference in the comfort and well-being of critically ill patients.
orthotopic liver transplantation for patients with hepatitis b virus-related liver disease fifty-nine patients with prior hepatitis b virus infection underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. during the first 2 mo, mortality was not significantly different in the hepatitis b virus-infected group (25.5%) vs. a hepatitis b virus-immune control group (21%). beyond 2 mo, the mortality, rate of graft loss, need for retransplantation and incidence of abnormal liver function were significantly higher in the hepatitis b virus-infected group. treatment of the hepatitis b virus infection was attempted with passive immunization, combined active and passive immunization, alpha-interferon or nothing. the clinical outcome was not significantly influenced by any of these therapies. however, of the patients who lived more than 60 days, 6 of 22 treated with active plus passive immunization were cleared of hbsag, something achieved once in 16 patients treated with alpha-interferon, never in 3 patients with passive immunization only and once in 4 patients with no therapy. in patients with recurrent hepatitis b virus infection, the pace of hepatitis development in the graft appeared to be accelerated, and this was particularly striking in patients who underwent multiple retransplantations at progressively shorter intervals. none of the patients who became hbsag-negative had hbeag preoperatively.
gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy. possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying. transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (ppw). we placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing ppw. myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies. the patient developed early postoperative gastric atony, associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias. these dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess. the gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying. gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period.
expression of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase gene in normal and leukemic cells: regulation of the transcript by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. the levels of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (lap) messenger rna (mrna) are evaluated in b and t lymphocytes, monocytes, and polymorphonuclear cells (pmns), and this transcript is found to be present only in pmns. precursors of the myelomonocytic pathway, represented by leukemic cells isolated from several cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) in its stable and blastic phase and acute myelogenous leukemia (aml), are devoid of lap transcript. these data support the notion that lap is a marker of the granulocyte terminal differentiation. despite the absence of lap mrna in both the myeloid and the lymphoid precursors, nuclear run-on experiments show constitutive transcription of the lap gene in leukemic cells obtained from aml, cml, as well as acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (b-cll). in cml and in chronic myelo-monocytic leukemia (cmml) pmns, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf) specifically accumulates lap mrna without showing a substantial increase in the rate of transcription of the lap gene. once increased by g-csf, lap mrna is very stable, showing a half-life of more than 4 hours in the presence of actinomycin-d. g-csf is suggested to play a pivotal role in the modulation of lap transcript in pmns.
solitary dorsal intramedullary schwannoma. case report. a case of solitary dorsal intramedullary schwannoma diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and treated surgically is reported. the authors review the previously published cases. the possible etiology of the tumor as well as some difficulties encountered in the diagnostic procedure and treatment are discussed.
insulin-like growth factor i expression by tumors of neuroectodermal origin with the t(11;22) chromosomal translocation. a potential autocrine growth factor. expression of insulin-like growth factor i (igf-i) mrna by some tumor cell lines of neuroectodermal origin has been described. to further explore the significance of igf-i mrna expression in these tumors, a more extensive analysis was performed. most (9 of 10) neuroectodermal tumor cell lines with a t(11;22) translocation (primitive neuroectodermal tumor [pnet], ewing's sarcoma, esthesioneuroblastoma) expressed igf-i mrna, whereas 0 of 15 cell lines without the translocation (pnet, neuroblastoma) expressed igf-i. furthermore, inasmuch as all neuroblastoma (12 of 12) cell lines examined expressed igf-ii rna, the pattern of igf expression could distinguish between these closely related tumors. chp-100, a pnet cell line with the t(11;22) translocation, was shown to secrete both igf-i protein and an igf binding protein, igfbp-2. this cell line also expressed the type i igf receptor mrna, and blockade of this receptor by a monoclonal antibody (alpha ir3) inhibited serum-free growth. these data demonstrate that igf-i expression is a property of neuroectodermal tumors with a t(11;22) translocation and that interruption of an igf-i autocrine loop inhibits the growth of these tumor cells.
total sacrectomy and reconstruction for huge sacral tumors. the authors carried out successful total sacrectomy in three cases, two with giant cell tumors and one with a chordoma. the anterior and posterior approach is feasible for resecting huge sacral tumors en bloc, but it is important to reconstruct the continuity between the pelvic ring and spinal column using spinal instrumentation and sacral rods or ao plates. as total sacrectomy is a large-scale, time-consuming, and collaborative operation, two or three teams should be used in relays. both pelvic and spinal surgical techniques are required. post-operatively the patient can stand within 3 to 6 months and well-planned rehabilitation allows ambulation. in spite of the serious structural and neurologic damage caused, total sacrectomy can be rewarding procedure in terms of improved morbidity and mortality.
severe thrombocytopenia after paracetamol overdose. two patients with severe thrombocytopenia after paracetamol overdose are described. the platelet count was lowest two days after the overdose. neither leucopenia nor anaemia occurred.
enhanced alpha 1-adrenergic responsiveness in cardiomyopathic hamster cardiac myocytes. relation to the expression of pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. the pathogenesis of the myopathy occurring in the heart of the cardiomyopathic strain of the syrian hamster is not well understood but is believed to be associated with abnormal calcium handling by myopathic cells. the purpose of this study was to determine whether the cardiomyopathy occurring in strain bio 14.6 animals is associated with an enhanced alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated rise in cytosolic calcium, whether a pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein is involved in coupling the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor to changes in intracellular calcium and whether enhanced alpha 1 responsiveness is associated with an increase in the level of expression of the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor or in the pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein or proteins. to test the hypothesis that the cardiomyopathic state is associated with a greater alpha 1-receptor-mediated rise in cytosolic calcium, we studied the effect of phenylephrine (in the presence of propranolol) on time-averaged cytosolic calcium concentration ([ca2+]i) in isolated cardiac myocytes from cardiomyopathic and age-matched control hamsters. phenylephrine caused a greater increase both in time-averaged [ca2+]i (an increase of 48 +/- 8% versus 12 +/- 3%, p less than 0.01) and in contractility (+181 +/- 22% versus +35 +/- 9%, p less than 0.01) in cardiomyopathic than in normal cardiac myocytes. exposure to pertussis toxin (200 ng/ml for 3 hours) attenuated the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated increase in contractility and time-averaged [ca2+]i in both cardiomyopathic and normal cells. the level of pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein, as determined by pertussis toxin-mediated [32p]adp-ribosylation, was 1.6-fold higher in cardiomyopathic versus normal hamster hearts. the density of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, as measured by the antagonist radioligand [3h]prazosin and the affinity of the receptor for agonist and antagonist were similar in myopathic and normal heart membranes. thus, in cardiac myocytes from hamsters, the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated effects on [ca2+]i and contractility appear to be mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein or proteins. in myocytes from cardiomyopathic hamsters, these alpha 1-adrenergic effects were increased in magnitude, as was the level of pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein, but there was no measurable alteration in the density or ligand binding properties of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors.
the role of lasers in hemorrhoidectomy. eighty-eight patients who received treatment for hemorrhoids were randomized into two groups. group a received the nd-yag laser phototherapy for internal hemorrhoid combined with the co2 laser for external hemorrhoid. group b was treated with closed ferguson hemorrhoidectomy. the need of narcotic injections for pain relief was 11 percent in group a vs. 56 percent in group b (p less than 0.001). the incidence of postoperative urinary retention was 7 percent in group a, vs. 39 percent in group b (p less than 0.05). no enema was required postoperatively in group a, vs. 9 percent in group b; 84 percent of the patients in group a were discharged on the second postoperative day, vs. 83 percent of the patients in group b discharged on the fifth postoperative day. the cost was 20 percent less in the former group. the overall complications in both groups were insignificant in difference, except prolonged wound healing in group a was noted. one year follow-up showed satisfactory results. laser treatment is considered one of the alternatives to conventional treatment, but the surgeon needs to be aware of laser hazards.
morphological study of cholesterol hepatolithiasis. report of three cases. three cases of pure cholesterol intrahepatic stones are compared morphologically to those of calcium bilirubinate stones. cholesterol stones were found in the intrahepatic bile duct of the left lateral lobe in two cases and in both the left lateral and the right posterior lobe in one. although the chronic inflammatory reaction and fibrous thickening of bile duct wall were similar in both types of hepatolithiasis, the proliferation of intrahepatic periductal glands and the production of mucin were rather mild, compared to that is the liner containing calcium bilirubinate stones. multiple intramural cholesterol calculi and cholesterin granulomas (cholesterin crystals surrounded by foreign-body giant cells) were found within the cystically dilated small bile duct branches and/or conduits of periductal glands. the calculi and granulomas were characteristic for cholesterol hepatolithiasis. these findings suggest that the formation of the cholesterol stones differs from that of calcium bilirubinate stones; the perturbation of factors influencing cholesterol nucleation in the hepatic bile may be related to the changed microenvironment of the intrahepatic bile ducts, which is followed by the formation of cholesterol stones.
the dolenc technique for cavernous sinus exploration (cadaveric prosection). technical note. this report describes a surgical approach to the cavernous sinus. based on the work of parkinson, dolenc, and other pioneering investigators, a comprehensive surgical approach for the treatment of lesions of the cavernous sinus is distilled and presented in 12 simple steps. the approach to surgical exploration of this region is divided into an extradural and intradural phase, each with six steps. the bony, neural, and/or vascular structures of each step are discussed. these steps may be used in their entirety for total exploration of the cavernous sinus, but also in part for lesions that involve only limited regions of the cavernous sinus. either by design or circumstance, every intracranial neurosurgeon will eventually be led to the cavernous sinus region, and a clear understanding of cavernous sinus anatomy should be part of their armamentarium.
primary hepatic malignancy: the role of liver transplantation. between january 1982 and april 1989, 134 patients with a suspected liver neoplasm were referred to the liver unit, queen elizabeth hospital, birmingham. in 105 (78 per cent), a primary hepatic neoplasm was histologically confirmed, and 47 patients (45 per cent) proved to have primary hepatocellular carcinoma. twenty-nine orthotopic liver transplants were performed in 28 of these patients (27 per cent). twenty patients (71 per cent) survived 30 days or longer (median 11.5 months; range 2-87 months), of whom nine are currently alive. we retrospectively analysed our data to determine the influence of preoperative evaluation, histological type and staging on outcome. computed tomography proved to be superior to intraoperative assessment (86 versus 58 per cent) in diagnosing tumour positive nodes. patients with tumour negative lymphadenopathy had a better prognosis. postoperative stage i/ii had a median survival of 16 months (range 3-87 months) compared with 7.5 months (range 2-20 months) for stage iii. non-cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had the best prognosis; cholangiocellular carcinoma and cirrhotic patients with hepatocelluar carcinoma had the worst outcome with no survivors beyond 1 year. because of the advanced stage of disease at the time of presentation, the value of liver transplantation in primary liver cancer is limited. for those presenting with advanced disease confined to the liver (stage i/ii) in whom conventional hepatic resection is not possible, significant benefit can be achieved in selected cases.
cellular internalization, transport, and esterification of iodine-125-np59 by ma-10 leydig tumor cells. the present studies were directed toward understanding the cellular processing of the cholesterol analogue, np59. np59 readily entered ma-10 leydig tumor cells. the cholesterol analogue entered the cells by binding to the plasma membrane and becoming internalized along with plasma membrane cholesterol. internalized np59 was readily esterified to np59 ester. transport of np59 within the cell was indistinguishable from transport of cholesterol. cholesterol and np59 transport were under the control of camp, however, only cholesterol entered the mitochondria and was converted into progesterone. thus, internalized np59 could not be removed from the cell by conversion into steroid hormones. esterified np59 was metabolically inert and could not be converted back to free np59 and free fatty acid. since np59 was not a substrate for the cholesteryl ester hydrolase, it became trapped in the cell as np59 ester.
a hypothesis: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce the incidence of large-bowel cancer. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) inhibit prostaglandin synthesis and tumor growth in the rodent colon. we assessed nsaid use in relation to risk of human large-bowel cancer in a hospital-based, case-control study of 1326 patients with colorectal cancer and 4891 control patients. for regular nsaid use that continued into the year before interview, the multivariate relative risk estimate was 0.5 (95% confidence interval, 0.4 to 0.8); the estimate decreased as the duration of use increased, but the trend was not statistically significant. similar results were obtained whether cancer or non-cancer controls were used, and the inverse association was apparent for both colon cancer and rectal cancer in men and women and in subjects younger and older than 60 years. regular nsaid use that had been discontinued at least 1 year previously and non-regular use were not associated with risk. almost all regular nsaid use was of aspirin-containing drugs. the present data suggest that the sustained use of nsaids reduces the incidence of human large-bowel cancer.
neuropsychological performance in patients with mild multiple sclerosis. although changes in cognitive function in patients with multiple sclerosis (ms) have been reported, these changes have been traditionally associated with the later stages of the disease. in the current study, a comprehensive neuropsychological battery was administered to ms patients (n = 86) in whom the disease progression was relatively mild and in remission and a demographically well-matched control group (n = 46). besides the expected differences in tests of motor function, the two groups also differed on a number of cognitive tests with no motor demands. the two cognitive functions that appear impaired were learning and memory. given that similar deficits have been found in ms patients with more severe symptoms, it is argued that changes in cognitive function can occur in the mild stages of the disease.
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations. report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis (nae) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells. clinically, dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate. the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined. the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points: (1) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations; and (2) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells, although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin. despite the rarity, this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders, particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome. helicobacter pylori (previously campylobacter pylori) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease. the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown. we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome. h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic (elisa) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori. we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years, median age 51. six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease (p less than 0.05). pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr, median 35.2. pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr; median 52.7. acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients (bao 24.5 +/- 6.5 vs 45.4 +/- 6.6, and mao 44.3 +/- 11.8 vs 67.9 +/- 10.7, for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients, respectively). the difference in bao was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome. the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related.
the turp syndrome. this article discusses the presentation, aetiology, treatment and prevention of central nervous system disturbances after transurethral resection of the prostate. nausea and vomiting, visual symptoms, and altered states of consciousness have been reported as complications due to intravascular absorption of irrigating fluid. hypotonicity after absorption of the irrigating fluid causes cerebral oedema. hyperglycinaemia may cause visual disturbances and hyperammonaemia may cause delayed coma.
changes in high-energy phosphate metabolism and cell morphology in four models of acute experimental pancreatitis. previous studies using the isolated ex vivo perfused canine pancreatitis preparation showed that during a 4-hour perfusion pancreatitis (edema, weight gain, hyperamylasemia) can be induced by four different stimuli. the stimuli include the intra-arterial infusion of oleic acid (ffa), a 2-hour period of ischemia before perfusion (isch), partial obstruction of the pancreatic duct with secretin stimulation (poss), and the intra-arterial infusion of cerulein at supramaximal doses (cer). in the present study, changes in high-energy phosphate metabolism, as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and changes in cellular structure, determined by light and electron microscopy, were documented for all four models of acute pancreatitis. the control preparations remained stable for the 4-hour perfusion period, with no decrease in adenosine triphosphate (atp) levels. in the ffa preparations, atp decreased to 36% of baseline levels during the 4-hour perfusion (p less than 0.001). in the isch preparations, atp decreased to undetectable levels during the 2-hour period of ischemia, but recovered rapidly and remained at baseline levels during the perfusion. atp levels remained stable in the remaining two models of pancreatitis (poss, cer). microscopy demonstrated that the initial injury was located chiefly in the capillaries (swollen endothelium, intravascular thrombi) in the ffa and isch preparations. in the poss and cer preparations, capillary changes were minimal and the injury was located chiefly in the acinar cells (swollen endoplasmic reticulum, zymogen granule depletion, vacuolization). the poss preparations also showed striking dilation of centroacinar lumens reflecting duct obstruction. in additional studies it was shown that the atp decline in the ffa preparations could be significantly reduced by pretreatment with free radical scavengers. the morphologic changes could be reduced by free radical scavengers in the ffa and isch preparations. any amelioration of morphologic injury in the poss preparations was obscured by dilatation of centroacinar lumens in both treated and untreated groups. the morphologic changes in the cer preparations were reduced by treatment with a cholecystokinin inhibitor.
small bowel enteroscopy: an early experience in gastrointestinal bleeding of unknown origin. peroral small intestinal enteroscopy was performed in 35 consecutive patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of unknown origin by using a prototypic sonde-type enteroscope. the median value for patient age was 69 years; duration of bleeding, 2 years (range, 2 months to 9 years); and transfusion requirements, 9 units. bleeding was occult in 54% of these patients. placement and passage of the enteroscope was performed by a gastrointestinal endoscopy assistant. mean passage time was 4.3 hours. complete passage was obtained in 14% of the patients, passage into the mid-distal ileum in 69%, and passage only into the jejunum in 17%. the diagnostic yield was 26%, with the majority of lesions encountered being mucosal vascular malformations. small intestinal enteroscopy is a reasonable diagnostic procedure before embarking on visceral angiography and surgical exploration when standard endoscopic and radiologic methods fail to disclose a diagnosis.
radical prostatectomy versus expectant primary treatment in stages i and ii prostatic cancer. a fifteen-year follow-up. a fifteen-year follow-up of a prospective, randomized study comparing placebo with radical prostatectomy as the primary treatment of early prostatic cancer is presented. a total of 111 patients with clinical stage i or ii prostatic cancer, normal acid phosphatase levels, and negative findings on skeletal x-ray film were evaluable. thirty stage i patients and 20 stage ii patients received placebo only; 31 stage i and 30 stage ii patients underwent radical prostatectomy. the survival status for 95 patients (86%) was established at the fifteen-year follow-up. no significant differences in crude survival occurred in either stage or in both stages combined. moreover, the survival curves closely followed reference curves based on expected u.s. mortality for men of comparable ages and races. a statistically significant association between a high gleason histologic score and poor survival was established. in this study, initial treatment with radical prostatectomy did not yield longer survival than initial placebo treatment alone. however, the findings should be interpreted with caution, since sample size was small and staging procedure was simplified.
myocardial infarction prognostic scoring system. a myocardial infarction prognostic scoring system for patients treated in a coronary care unit is described. the prognostic significance of 22 variables, all which were available on admission, were analyzed. a prognostic index was then constructed by a modified stepwise logistic regressional analysis technique. the variables that were used in the scoring system were killip hemodynamic class, infarct location, and the maximal st segment elevation in a single lead. the scoring system was validated in an independent group of patients, including a group of patients treated with intravenous streptokinase. the scoring system may prove to be useful for individual patient prognostication and management strategies, and for the quantification of infarct severity for use in clinical studies.
hla class i and class ii antigen expression on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. we compared human major histocompatibility (hla) class i and class ii antigen expression on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck with that on normal mucosa. frozen sections of a consecutive series of 30 squamous cell carcinomas were stained with the monoclonal antibodies w6/32 (class i) and anti-dr (class ii) using an immunoperoxidase technique. normal mucosa showed class i and class ii expression in the basal layers only. class i expression on tumors was diffuse in 87%, patchy in 10%, and scattered in 3%. class ii expression on tumors was diffuse in 20%, patchy in 53%, scattered in 20%, and absent in 7%. patterns of expression did not correlate significantly with clinical parameters, including survival, except that class ii diffuse and patchy patterns were found to correlate with more poorly differentiated tumors.
scintigraphic measurement of oropharyngeal transit in man. scintigraphic studies of the oropharyngeal transit of a liquid bolus were performed in 15 healthy controls, 12 patients with symptoms of oral-pharyngeal dysphagia, and 13 patients with neuromuscular disease, who did not have dysphagia. gamma camera imaging of the head, neck, and upper thorax was undertaken, in the lateral projection, during the swallowing of the radiolabeled bolus of water. inspection of summed images permitted the selection of regions of interest (roi) to represent the mouth, pharynx, and upper esophagus. transit times between each roi were calculated and compared. significant prolongation of bolus transit time between the mouth and esophagus was present in both patients with and without dysphagia (0.59 +/- 0.38 sec and 0.33 +/- 0.7 sec; mean +/- sd, respectively) compared with controls (0.26 +/- 0.04 sec p less than 0.001, p less than 0.01, respectively, mann-whitney u test). repeat studies in 25 individuals indicated that the transit measurements were more reproducible between swallows in normal subjects than in patients with symptoms. deglutitive scintigraphy provides a noninvasive technique for the quantitative study of swallowing and its disorders.
major depression, panic disorder, and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain. purpose: patients with chest pain but without angiographic evidence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (cad) are often found to have other medical or psychiatric disorders, including mitral valve prolapse, panic disorder (pd), and major depressive disorder (mdd). the purpose of this study was to determine the degree of comorbidity between mdd/pd and mitral valve prolapse in a group of patients with non-cad chest pain. patients and methods: patients referred for cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography for suspected cad who were 70 years of age or younger and without other significant medical illnesses or cardiac complications were eligible for study. the first 100 patients who agreed to a psychiatric diagnostic interview were recruited. results: forty-eight of the 100 patients were found to be without significant cad. forty-two percent of these patients, compared to 19% of the patients with significant cad, were found to have either mdd, pd, or both. eighty percent of the patients without cad who had mitral valve prolapse also had either mdd or pd (p less than 0.006). conclusions: the finding that mitral valve prolapse was significantly associated with mdd/pd has implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-cad chest pain, and may explain why these patients complain of symptoms.
acute sensorineural deafness in lassa fever a prospective audiometric evaluation of 69 hospitalized febrile patients in sierra leone, west africa, revealed a sensorineural hearing deficit (snhd) in 14 (29%) of 49 confirmed cases of lassa fever and in 0 of 20 febrile controls. an snhd was present in nine (17.6%) of 51 people who had evidence of previous lassa virus infection. twenty-six of 32 local residents who had previously sustained a sudden deafness had antibody titers to lassa virus of 16 or greater, compared with six of 32 matched controls. lassa fever is associated with an incidence of snhd, which considerably exceeds that previously reported with any other postnatally acquired infection, and accounts for a prevalence of virus-related hearing impairment in the eastern province of sierra leone that is greater than that reported from anywhere else in the world.
etoposide. current and future status. etoposide (vp-16-213) is an antineoplastic agent with demonstrated efficacy against a broad spectrum of human malignancies, including testicular, germ cell, lung, and other cancers. etoposide can be synergistic with other agents. as part of combination chemotherapy, etoposide has become a so-called standard in therapies for testicular cancer and small cell lung cancer. its activity in tumors such as lymphoma and leukemia, as well as solid tumors, identifies etoposide as a highly important chemotherapeutic agent. cellular and animal models have shown that the cell kill and tumor response depend on both dose and time of exposure. recent clinical studies again show that dose and schedule of etoposide can have important effects on clinical response to the drug. further research should now continue: (1) on the use of etoposide as part of initial therapy in several cancers, and (2) in higher doses and prolonged schedules to optimize this agent's potential.
phase i and imaging trial of indium 111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 225 in patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma murine monoclonal antibody (mab) 225 (igg1) against the epidermal growth factor (egf) receptor competitively blocks egf binding and inhibits egf-induced activation of receptor tyrosine kinase and cell proliferation. the effect of mab 225 was studied in a phase i trial in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung, which invariably expresses high levels of egf receptors. groups of three patients received total doses of mab 225 ranging from 1 mg to 300 mg. except at the lowest dose, each infusion included 4 mg of indium 111 (111in)-labeled mab 225. no toxicity was observed. tumors were imaged in all patients who received doses of 20 mg or greater. presumed metastases greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were imaged with doses of 40 mg or greater. single-photon-emission-computed tomography could be carried out at the 120-mg and 300-mg doses and significantly improved tumor visualization. all patients produced anti-murine antibodies. we conclude that treatment with an mab that inhibits egf receptor function is safe at the doses and schedule studied. 111in-labeled mab images squamous cell lung carcinoma; tumor uptake of the labeled mab is dose dependent. further studies are warranted to explore the potential therapeutic efficacy of anti-egf receptor mabs and other agents that act in a comparable manner.
expression of x protein and hepatitis b virus replication in chronic hepatitis. the x protein can act on the enhancer of hepatitis b virus in an in vitro system and elevate the transcriptional level of hepatitis b virus. however, because no relationship had been reported between x protein expression and hepatitis b virus replication in patients with chronic hepatitis b, we focused on its expression in the liver in comparison with markers of hepatitis b virus replication. liver biopsy samples and sera from 59 carriers with hbsag were examined immunohistochemically for x protein using rabbit igg against recombinant x protein. there was a significant difference in the serum hepatitis b virus dna level between x protein-positive and -negative patients (p less than 0.001). serum pre-s1 and pre-s2 antigens were also measured quantitatively by enzyme immunoassay using monoclonal antibodies specific against each antigen. the titers of pre-s1 antigen in patients positive for x protein were significantly higher (p less than 0.001) than those of the x protein-negative patients (3.02 +/- 0.99 vs. 2.00 +/- 0.59, respectively). similarly, the titers of pre-s2 antigen were 2.98 +/- 0.91 vs. 1.94 +/- 0.54, respectively (p less than 0.001). the rate of positivity of the x protein was higher (38 of 49; 77.6%) in the replicative group (serum hbeag, serum hepatitis b virus dna or hbcag in liver positive) compared with that observed in the nonreplicative group (3 of 10; 30%--serum hbeag, serum hepatitis b virus dna and hbcag in liver negative) (p less than 0.01).
the human costs of cancer and the response of the national cancer program. the three foundations of the national cancer program are basic research, clinical trials (in prevention and treatment), and cancer centers. these foundations have supported a great deal of progress against cancer over the past 20 years. nevertheless, a number of challenges remain, and continued progress will depend on the speed with which research advances can be translated into practical realities. poverty is a risk factor for cancer incidence and mortality. thus, a lack of access to the technologies generated by the national cancer program can be a force for bringing about differential burdens of cancer in underserved populations.
diagnostic criteria for neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus: the results of a consensus meeting. the ad hoc neuropsychiatric lupus workshop group. definitions and classifications proposed for the neuropsychiatric complications of systemic lupus erythematosus (np-sle) indicate a wide range of approaches taken by different researchers and clinicians. a meeting of investigators was convened to begin a consensus process for standardizing its classification. we found that the level of agreement among raters on the importance of elements to the diagnosis of np-sle increased significantly as indicated by an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.05 before the conference to 0.60 after the conference. the results of such studies can be used to generate and test the utility of diagnostic criteria for np-sle in multicenter trials.
tumor cell heterogeneity and subpopulations with metastatic ability in differentiated adenocarcinoma of the lung. histologic and cytofluorometric dna analyses. to investigate tumor cell heterogeneity and subpopulations with metastatic ability in differentiated adenocarcinoma of the lung, the primary and metastatic lesions in 20 cases of differentiated adenocarcinoma were examined by histologic and cytofluorometric dna analyses. the primary tumor was divided histologically into three compartments: tumor area of type 1, papillary adenocarcinoma with thin stroma; tumor area of type 2, papillary adenocarcinoma with thickened fibrovascular stroma: tumor area of type 3; solid carcinoma with scant gland formation. the nuclear dna content (ndc) was higher in type 2 than in type 1 tumor in terms of mean ndc and dna histogram pattern (p less than 0.01). metastatic tumors in distant organs often resembled the type 2 of primary tumors histologically and also in their dna histogram patterns, and their mean ndc values were significantly correlated with each other (p less than 0.01). metastatic tumors in regional lymph nodes had a significantly lower mean ndc than those in distant organs (p less than 0.01). these results suggest that (1) type 2 tumors originate from type 1 tumors by malignant progression and metastasize hematogenously, and (2) hematogenous metastases are composed of tumor subclones different from those of lymphatic metastases.
hypertension as an unusual feature in an outbreak of tetrodotoxin poisoning. we report an outbreak of tetrodotoxin poisoning resulting from consumption of ovaries of an unidentified species of fish. thirty victims manifested the typical neurologic symptoms of tetrodotoxin poisoning. although hypotension is the classically described blood pressure reaction, eight individuals developed hypertension (average blood pressure 192/110 mm hg); one died of acute pulmonary edema. semi-quantitative tetrodotoxin bioassay of two uneaten ovaries revealed tetrodotoxin concentrations of 54 mouse units/gm and 287 mouse units/gm, respectively. to gain insight into the unusual phenomenon of hypertension observed in our outbreak, we interviewed the victims, performed a funduscopic exam for hypertensive retinopathy and checked their blood pressure periodically in the ensuing year. mild hypertension evidenced by retinopathy and elevated blood pressure was found in all seven who manifested hypertension during the acute event and survived. we postulate that individuals with pre-existing hypertension responded to the relatively small doses of tetrodotoxin with a dramatic rise in blood pressure. this resulted in the fatal outcome for one individual with severe coronary artery disease. hypertension should be recognized as a possible feature of tetrodotoxin poisoning, especially in predisposed individuals.
structure, expression and function of a schwannoma-derived growth factor. during the development of the nervous system, cells require growth factors that regulate their division and survival. to identify new growth factors, serum-free growth-conditioned media from many clonal cell lines were screened for the presence of mitogens for central nervous system glial cells. a cell line secreting a potent glial mitogen was established from a tumour (or 'schwannoma') derived from the sheath of the sciatic nerve. the cells of the tumour, named js1 cells, were adapted to clonal culture and identified as schwann cells. schwann cells secrete an autocrine mitogen and human schwannoma extracts have mitogenic activity on glial cells. until now, neither mitogen has been purified. here we report the purification and characterization of a mitogenic molecule, designated schwannoma-derived growth factor (sdgf), from the growth-conditioned medium of the js1 schwann cell line. sdgf belongs to the epidermal growth factor family, and is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes, schwann cells and fibroblasts.
effect of neurotransmitter-selective drugs in mice selected for differential sensitivity to the hypothermic actions of ethanol. mice selectively bred for resistance (hot) and sensitivity (cold) to the hypothermic effect of etoh were tested for their hypothermic response to neurotransmitter-specific drugs and for the effect of such drugs on etoh induced hypothermia (ht). the drugs administered were the opiate drugs morphine, levorphanol and u50488h, the dopamine agonists apomorphine, ly171535 and skf38393, the dopamine antagonist chlorpromazine, the alpha adrenergic agonist st587, the cholinergic agonist nicotine and amphetamine, which increases the release of catecholamines. all of the drugs tested, with the exception of skf38393 and amphetamine, induced a hypothermic response in hot and cold mice. skf38393 had no effect on body temperature or ht produced by etoh. amphetamine caused ht at low doses and hyperthermia at high doses. cold mice were more sensitive than hot mice to the hypothermic effect of morphine and levorphanol, mu-opiate agonists, and u50488h, a relatively specific kappa agonist. all of the other drugs tested were approximately equally potent in hot and cold mice. these results suggest that the differential sensitivity of hot and cold mice to etoh-induced ht may be partially mediated through genetic changes in opiate mechanisms.
toxic shock syndrome after inguinal hernia repair. report of a case with patient survival. a 40-year-old man developed fulminant multisystem failure several days after elective repair of an inguinal hernia. toxic shock syndrome (tss) was diagnosed. there was, however, no evidence of wound infection at the time of multisystem failure. only later in his hospital course did the wound drain. staphylococcus aureus was cultured from the wound and was the presumed etiologic agent in the patient's life-threatening illness. the patient recovered fully with supportive care, antibiotics, and surgical debridement of the inguinal hernia site. this case is discussed in the context of existing literature on the toxic shock syndrome. the site of infection is typically nonsuppurative, but the systemic manifestations are typically life threatening. the responsible organism is commonly believed to be a strain of s. aureus that expresses a toxin (tss toxin-1) that effects multisystem failure, but which also diminishes the local inflammatory response and explains the benign appearance of the wound. although this is a rare clinical entity, elective surgical procedures complicated by fatal tss have been reported. surgeons should understand this disease and the management necessary to avert mortality.
fetal platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy fetal platelet counts were assessed by percutaneous umbilical blood sampling in 64 pregnancies (62 women) with maternal thrombocytopenia. in 33 pregnancies associated with chronic immune thrombocytopenia, 11 of the fetuses had platelet counts below 150 x 10(9)/l and 4 were severely thrombocytopenic (less than 50 x 10(9)/l). in 31 pregnancies with symptomless maternal thrombocytopenia as an incidental finding, 4 fetuses were thrombocytopenic, 1 of them severely. maternal indices, including antiplatelet antibodies, did not correlate with risk of fetal thrombocytopenia; and in those with repeat measurements there was no evidence of benefit from treatment with either corticosteroids (4 cases) or intravenous immunoglobulin (3 cases). percutaneous umbilical blood sampling, a safe procedure in experienced hands, provides accurate platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy, as an aid to decisions on mode of delivery and to assessment of treatments.
nd:yag laser with sapphire tip combined with balloon angioplasty in peripheral arterial occlusions. long-term results in 167 patients with complete occlusion (greater than 3 cm) of the femoropopliteal artery, percutaneous transluminal laser angioplasty (ptla) was performed after an unsuccessful attempt at crossing with a guide wire and was immediately followed by balloon dilatation. an nd-yag laser and an optical fiber delivery system with a sapphire tip serving as a contact probe were used for ptla. in 132 of 167 (79%) patients, the occluded segment was successfully reopened. clinical symptoms improved in 126 of 167 (75%) patients. ptla was unsuccessful in 35 patients, and in 15 of these, injury of the vessel wall occurred. in one patient, surgical drainage of a large hematoma became necessary. all patients in whom recanalization had been achieved were randomized to receive long-term treatment with either phenprocumarol or acetylsalicylic acid (asa) plus dipyridamole to prevent rethrombosis. at 36 months of follow-up, the cumulative patency rate (cpr) was 63%. a complete reobstruction in 32 patients (24%) and a partial reobstruction in 15 patients (11%) were found angiographically. the cpr after 36 months was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients younger than 60 years of age (54%) than in patients older than 60 (68%); it was also significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients with reduced peripheral runoff (55%) due to obstructed arteries of the lower leg than in patients with unaffected runoff (73%). the cpr was 65% in recanalized segments shorter than 7 cm and was 62% in recanalized segments longer than 7 cm.
biliary calcium and gallstone formation. the purpose of this paper is to present a brief overview of the current status of the field of biliary calcium and the role of calcium in the formation and maturation of gallstones. the study of free ca+(+) ions in bile by electrochemical potentiometric measurements using ca+(+)-selective ion-exchange electrodes is a relatively new field, but much progress has been made in the past few years. using this powerful analytical tool, new concepts and findings have arisen in almost every aspect of biliary calcium. although the current symposium is targeted primarily toward cholesterol gallstones, there are several areas in which understanding of biliary calcium may significantly contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of cholesterol, as well as "pigment" (calcium salt), gallstones. five broad areas are considered in relation to biliary calcium: (a) physiology (calcium entry into bile), (b) biophysics (the regulation of biliary free [ca+(+)] as related to gibbs-donnan equilibria, (c) physical chemistry (the physicochemical state of calcium in bile, (d) thermodynamics (calcium solubility in bile), and (e) kinetics (pronucleating and antinucleating factors and metastable states). with more specific reference to cholesterol stones, consideration is also made of (a) the calcium salt "seed" hypothesis in cholesterol stone pathogenesis; (b) the interactions of ca+(+) with phospholipid-cholesterol vesicles, with consideration of possible structural requirements and (c) thermodynamic and kinetic factors as related to peripheral or "eggshell" calcification of existing cholesterol stones.
cytologic identification of clinically occult proliferative breast disease in women with a family history of breast cancer. a cytologic method for sampling the normal breast by fine-needle aspiration (fna) was used to determine the frequency of clinically inapparent proliferative breast disease (pbd) in women with family histories of breast cancer. the authors attempted to obtain specimens from each quadrant of both breasts in 51 female first-degree relatives of breast cancer patients. the study group had no detectable masses by physical examination or mammography. samples were prepared on membrane filters, papanicolaou stained, and evaluated cytomorphologically. three hundred seventy-eight of 408 (92.6%) possible quadrants were sampled; cellular material was obtained from 290 (76.7%) quadrants. pbd was identified in 20 of the 51 women (39.2%). when epithelium was obtained, nuclear area, perimeter, and diameter were measured with the use of computerized image analysis. nuclei in samples containing atypical hyperplasia showed significant differences in these parameters when compared with cells from samples containing normal epithelium or benign hyperplasia. the authors' findings indicate that fna sampling and computerized image analysis are useful in the detection and characterization of clinically inapparent pbd.
squamous cell carcinoma of prostate. a primary squamous cell carcinoma occurring in the prostate of a sixty-nine-year-old man is described. a radical excision that included cystoprostatectomy, total penectomy, scrotectomy, pubic symphysiectomy, and abdominoperineal resection of rectum was done. the patient died of systemic metastases six months after diagnosis. review of the literature suggests that such a cancer of the prostate is rare, highly aggressive, and responds poorly to any mode of therapy. histogenesis of this tumor remains controversial; however, it probably does not originate from the prostatic acinar cells.
the effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. the boston area anticoagulation trial for atrial fibrillation investigators background. nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke, presumably from atrial thromboemboli. there is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke. methods. we conducted an unblinded, randomized, controlled trial of long-term, low-dose warfarin therapy (target prothrombin-time ratio, 1.2 to 1.5) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. the control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin. results. a total of 420 patients entered the trial (212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years. prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time. only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently. there were 2 strokes in the warfarin group (incidence, 0.41 percent per year) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group (incidence, 2.98 percent per year), for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke (warfarin:control incidence ratio = 0.14; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.04 to 0.49; p = 0.0022). there were 37 deaths altogether. the death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group: 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year, for an incidence ratio of 0.38 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.17 to 0.82; p = 0.005). there was one fatal hemorrhage in each group. the frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups. the warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group (38 vs. 21 patients). conclusions. long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation, and can be quite safe with careful monitoring.
gallstone dissolution. many methods are available for gallstone dissolution, including oral bile salts; cholesterol solvents such as mono-octanoin or methyl tert-butyl either; and calcium or pigment solvents such as edta and polysorbate. which of these approaches will be appropriate for an individual patient depends on the type of stones; whether they are in the gallbladder or the bile ducts; whether access to the biliary tree is available; the patient's age and general medical condition; and the availability of necessary expertise. in the us, both chenodeoxycholate and ursodeoxycholate are now available. ursodeoxycholate is more expensive but appears to produce fewer side effects and may be more efficacious. these agents are most effective in thin women with small floating, radiolucent cholesterol stones in a functioning gallbladder. only about half of the small subset of patients will experience partial or complete dissolution of stones within a year. stone recurrence and the potential toxicity of long-term therapy are problems with this approach. therefore, for most patients, cholecystectomy, either in the traditional fashion or using a laparoscopic approach (see article later in this issue by gadacz et al), is the most cost-effective and perhaps the safest option. intragallbladder instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether probably will be applicable only to a small subset of patients, and treatment is likely to be followed by a high recurrence rate. in patients with retained common duct cholesterol stones and access to the biliary tree, mono-octanoin therapy is advantageous in that it can be initiated as soon as cholangiography demonstrates no extravasation. in properly selected patients, a 90% success rate with this technique can be expected within 7 days.
partial laryngectomy after irradiation failure. forty-three patients who had partial laryngectomies after radiotherapy were evaluated. forty-two had failed irradiation for laryngeal carcinoma. nine had supraglottic procedures, 3 endoscopic, and 31 vertical partial. twelve (28%) required subsequent completion laryngectomy. major complications included laryngeal stenosis in 1, incompetent laryngeal sphincters in 2, mucocutaneous fistulas in 3, and delayed deglutition in 3. six patients had positive permanent section margins. in 5 of those, intraoperative frozen sections had been taken and were negative. recurrent or persistent disease was eventually demonstrated in all patients with positive margins. the 2-year determinant disease-free survival rate for stage i and ii disease was 85%. three-year disease-free survival was 50% for stage iii and iv disease. partial laryngectomies, including supraglottic, can be done after irradiation failure with a high expectation of cure and acceptable morbidity. immediate additional operation should be considered in patients with positive margins.
multiple hormone elevations in zollinger-ellison syndrome. prospective study of clinical significance and of the development of a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome. in the present study of 45 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome, the frequency and clinical importance of the release of multiple gastrointestinal peptides were assessed prospectively. during an initial evaluation, extent of gastrinoma, clinical symptoms, disease duration, and presence or absence of multiple endocrine neoplasia, type i (men-i) were assessed. all patients had determinations of fasting plasma gastrin, human pancreatic polypeptide, motilin, neurotensin, and somatostatin; 35 had determinations of insulin and gastrin-releasing peptide and 21 had determinations of glucagon. a plasma elevation of additional peptides besides gastrin was detected in 62%, with 44% having one, 18% having two, and 0% having three additional peptides elevated. motilin was elevated in 29%, human pancreatic polypeptide in 27%, neurotensin in 20%, and gastrin-releasing peptide in 10%, whereas insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin were not elevated in any patient. the presence or absence of elevation of any peptide did not differ in patients with or without men-i, with gastrinoma size, with the presence or absence of metastatic disease, or with various clinical symptoms. patients were assessed yearly for clinical evidence of a secondary symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome with a median follow-up of 146 and 84 months from onset or diagnosis, respectively. only one patient (2% of patients) developed a second syndrome (rate, 2 patients per 100 patients observed for 10 years). these results demonstrate that the plasma elevation of multiple gastrointestinal peptides is common in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome; however, the rate of developing a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome is much lower than generally believed. furthermore, no evidence is found to support the conclusions that the detection of the plasma elevation of these peptides is clinically important in assessing men-i status, disease extent, or presence of metastatic disease or that elevated levels of motilin, neurotensin, gastrin-releasing peptide, or human pancreatic peptide are associated with any distinct clinical symptoms. therefore, we recommend that plasma concentrations of these additional gastrointestinal peptides should not be assessed routinely but rather only if new symptoms develop.
mitral valve prolapse: comparison of diagnosis by physical examination and echocardiography to determine how well physical examination findings suggestive of mitral valve prolapse (mvp) correlate with echocardiographic evidence of mvp, we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 104 patients referred to an air force cardiology clinic for echocardiography to rule out mvp. in each case, the referring physician's specialty and his findings on cardiac physical examination were recorded. all patients had m-mode echocardiography, and half of the patients had two-dimensional echocardiography. sensitivities, specificities, and likelihood ratios for the physical examination were calculated using echocardiography as the comparison standard. the combination of a systolic click and a systolic murmur was the physical examination finding most predictive of echocardiographic mvp, with a positive likelihood ratio of 2.43. other combinations of physical findings yielded likelihood ratios close to 1. no differences were found based on the specialty of the examining physician. we conclude that when practicing physicians find a systolic click and murmur, mvp is likely to be present on echocardiography, though one third of the patients will have normal echocardiograms. other combinations of physical findings are of little help in predicting echocardiographic mvp.
pain management in the orthopedic patient. pain is a familiar phenomenon to all orthopedic nurses. as dunwoody said, "few things we do for patients are more fundamental to the quality of life than relieving pain." we as orthopedic nurses are in a position to contribute to the positive management of pain by using a comprehensive approach to pain management that involves the participation of the patient. we need to believe the patient's pain, try new approaches, and help our patients achieve pain relief.
differential alpha-fetoprotein lectin binding in hepatocellular carcinoma. diagnostic utility at low serum levels. the reactivity of serum alpha-fetoprotein (afp) from 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) with immobilized lentil lectin was examined and found to be significantly greater (39% +/- 18%) than that of the same protein from seven patients with chronic liver disease (cld, 11.2% +/- 3.3%), seven with fulminant hepatic failure (fhf, 10% +/- 8.4%), and eight normal pregnant women (4.1% +/- 2.7%). the reactivity with concanavalin a (con a) was also significantly greater for afp from hcc patients (44.5% +/- 12.5%) than that from fhf patients (7.7% +/- 4%) and normal pregnant women (5.3% +/- 3.3%), but not from patients with cld. the reactivity with lentil lectin permitted distinction between those with hcc (31.3% +/- 14.1%) and those with uncomplicated cld (11.2% +/- 8.4%) even when the absolute levels of serum afp were in the same range (80-400 ng/ml). evaluation of the alterations by lectin binding methodology may be useful in overcoming problems associated with distinguishing between malignant and cld, particularly at moderate serum afp elevations.
long term survival and severe rebleeding after variceal sclerotherapy. of 197 consecutive patients with cirrhosis admitted because of bleeding from esophageal varices, 133 were included in a prospective study of elective sclerotherapy. we evaluated the incidence of extensive rebleeding and mortality rate. the period of study was 54 months and the mean follow-up period was 21 months. forty-one patients had severe rebleeding and a majority of the episodes occurred during the first year. only four patients had more than five sessions of sclerosis when rebleeding occurred. the probability rate for patients to be free of severe rebleeding after 48 months, according to pugh's classification, was 88 per cent for those with grade a, 50 percent for grade b and 43 percent for grade c. the over-all mortality rate was 38.8 per cent (53 patients), with the highest rate noted during the first year. the mortality rate of patients with severe rebleeding was much higher than that of those who did not rebleed. kaplan-meier survival analysis at four years was 52 per cent, and survival rates in relation to pugh's classification were 73 per cent for a, 53 per cent for b and 34 per cent for c. differences between the three groups were statistically significant. therefore, because of the high mortality rate associated with patients with cirrhosis and extensive rebleeding during the first year, it is important to achieve, as soon as possible, eradication of esophageal varices.
research in physical medicine and rehabilitation. xii. measurement tools with application to brain injury. there are basic principles and techniques of measurement that are relevant across biomedical disciplines. the purpose of this article is to explain some of the most important of these for medical rehabilitation, to illustrate how to use them to choose assessment instruments and to describe the nature of measurement in medical rehabilitation by examples in brain injury rehabilitation. reliability is basic to any scientific measure. validity, the ultimate criterion, is closely associated with the purpose of the measure. content validity, criterion validity and construct validity are explained. sensitivity to rehabilitative interventions and significance in patients' real lives (ecological validity) are emphasized. measures of functional outcomes (disability) may show improvement after rehabilitation even when impairment measures do not. an extensive but selected list of measures of coma, global status, disabilities, communicative and cognitive impairments, and handicaps is presented, and their main uses are illustrated. examples illustrate how to choose measures to study comprehensive program-level outcomes, to study learning-based interventions and to develop a general purpose database. although there are many measures of activities of daily living and mobility, little published evidence of reliability and validity could be found even for some well-known scales. ecologically valid and sensitive outcome measures are especially needed. studies of the clinical utility of measures were also scarce. many of these gaps can be spanned by clinical researchers with limited resources. physical medicine and rehabilitation will benefit from formal studies of the reliabilities and validities of both its old and its new measurement instruments and by increased sophistication in choice of measures.
clinical judgments in pain management. from research reports published over the last 20 years, it appears that moderate to severe uncontrolled pain may be the norm for hospitalized patients despite recent advances in the management of pain. research on the extent of under-management of pain and the factors associated with it is examined and summarized in this paper. methodological imperfections of the research are identified. several explanations for pain under-management have been proposed and these are reported. a clinical decision making model is also reviewed and it is suggested that this model could be applied to pain management problems. further, it is suggested that this model may be very useful in developing educational interventions to improve health practitioners' clinical skills in pain management.
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome. recurrent symptoms develop in 15% to 20% of patients undergoing either first rib resection or scalenectomy for thoracic outlet syndrome. over the past 22 years 134 operations for recurrence were performed in 97 patients. four operations were used: transaxillary first rib resection (26); supraclavicular first rib resection with neurolysis (15); scalenectomy with neurolysis (58); and brachial plexus neurolysis (35). complications included temporary plexus injury (0.7%), temporary phrenic palsy (3.7%), and permanent phrenic palsy (1.4%). the combined primary success rate of all four operations for recurrence was 84% in the first 3 months. this fell to 59% at 1 to 2 years; 50% at 3 to 5 years; and 41% at 10 to 15 years. no significant difference was found in results between the four operations used for recurrence. when recurrence was caused by trauma the results of reoperations were better than when recurrence was spontaneous. the primary success rates of three initial operations for thoracic outlet syndrome were compared to their secondary success rates (improved after reoperation). by use of life-table methods, reoperation improved the 5- to 10-year success rate of transaxillary first rib resection from 69% to 86% and for scalenectomy from 69% to 84%. reoperation is successful in most cases of recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome and better when recurrence is the result of a neck injury.
correlation of the structure of the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein with its function. the human homologue of the neu oncogene is frequently found in human tumors. certain amino acid substitutions at position 664 in the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein product are known to cause malignant transformation of cells. using conformational energy analysis based on ecepp (empirical conformational energies for polypeptides program), we have previously determined the preferred three-dimensional structures for the transmembrane domain of the p185 protein with a transforming (glutamic acid) and a nontransforming (valine) substitution at the critical position 664 and found that the global minimum-energy conformation of this region in the nontransforming protein contains a sharp bend, whereas the global minimum-energy conformation for this region from the transforming protein is entirely alpha-helical. we now demonstrate that this result holds for other known nontransforming (glycine, histidine, tyrosine, and lysine) and transforming (glutamine) substitutions at position 664. furthermore, a simple statistical thermodynamic analysis of the results indicates that approximately 85% of each of the nontransforming sequences exist with the bend at positions 664 and 665, while approximately 90% of each of the transforming sequences exist as an alpha-helix. about 9% of the nontransforming sequences exist as the alpha-helix. these results suggest that if the intracellular concentration of the normal protein is increased at least 10-fold, thereby increasing the alpha-helical form by this factor, cell transformation should result. this conclusion is directly supported by genetic experiments in which this level of overexpression of the normal protein was achieved with attendant cell transformation.
influence of prosthetic design on durability of the liotta porcine valve in the mitral position. from march 1979 to december 1984, the liotta low-profile porcine bioprosthesis was employed for mitral valve replacement in 71 patients to avoid potential left ventricle-prosthesis mismatch occasionally observed with the standard, high-profile, hancock porcine xenograft. follow-up of 61 operative survivors showed at 10 years an actuarial survival of 67% +/- 7%, freedom from thromboemboli of 96% +/- 2%, freedom from structural deterioration of 63% +/- 11% and freedom from all liotta bioprosthesis-related complications of 53% +/- 10%. complications related to excessive protrusion of the stent into the left ventricular cavity were eliminated with the liotta bioprosthesis; the peculiar stent configuration, however, was responsible for an increased rate of structural deterioration requiring reoperation in 10 patients (2.8% +/- 0.9%/patient-year) at a mean interval of 76 +/- 18 months after mitral valve replacement (range, 45 to 106 months). common findings in all explants were cusp prolapse, cusp tears, and commissural rupture related to various degrees of tissue calcification, constantly leading to severe prosthetic incompetence. as also shown experimentally, such structural changes have been attributed to increased systolic stresses on the closed cusps, favored by excessive reduction of the stent height. our experience shows that the liotta bioprosthesis used for mitral valve replacement does not provide any clear-cut advantage over standard porcine bioprostheses and that its long-term durability appears affected by the unique prosthetic design.
abdominal aneurysms in childhood: report of a case and review of the literature. abdominal aneurysms are rare in children and are usually found in association with congenital cardiac or aortic malformations, connective tissue disorders, trauma, or previous arterial catheter placement. a 4-year-old girl who had a common iliac artery aneurysm, who had no history of arterial catheter placement or trauma, and who had no evidence of marfan's or ehlers-danlos syndrome, arteritis, coarctation of the aorta, or other diseases associated with childhood aneurysms is presented. resection of the aneurysm and arterial reconstruction were performed without the use of prosthetic material or vein graft. pathologic examination showed no evidence of inflammation or medial degeneration in any of the layers of the arterial wall. this is the fourth report found in the literature of documented idiopathic abdominal aneurysm in a child. the conditions associated with abdominal aneurysms in childhood are discussed, and the literature is reviewed.
ablation of the cystic duct and the gallbladder. experimental basis and initial clinical observations. bipolar radiofrequency electrocoagulation of the cystic duct by catheter can be performed safely and reproducibly using fluoroscopic control and induces endoluminal scar formation. the scar within the cystic duct forms a reliable barrier between the gallbladder and the biliary system and avoids recanalization of the cystic duct at a later date. sclerotherapy of the isolated gallbladder with 95% ethanol and 3% sts can be performed without toxic or otherwise adverse effects and is suitable to ablate the porcine gallbladder. initial clinical trials with this new technique on a small number of patients are promising and have demonstrated that the protocol can be applied safely to humans. the electrocoagulation technique by catheter appears suitable to ablate the human cystic duct. follow-up evaluation of our first patients is under way and must determine whether our regimen is appropriate to ablate the human gallbladder on a long-term basis. further development of this new approach may eventually enable definitive nonoperative treatment of cholecystolithiasis in selected patients.
a multifocal schwannoma of the masseteric nerve causing hemicrania. a case is reported of schwannoma of the right masseteric nerve, invading the pterygopalatine fossa and the parapharyngeal space through the mandibular notch in a 61-year-old woman. the tumor in this case was composed of four various-sized interconnected nodules, simulating a string of beads. the tumor was the cause of the patient's chronic hemicrania, as confirmed by the relief from and disappearance of head pain after surgical removal of the tumor. the most important aspects of this case are the anatomic site of the schwannoma and its uncommon clinicopathologic manifestations; this tumor originated from the masseteric nerve and is the first case reported to straddle the mandibular notch.
the daylong pattern of the antianginal effect of long-term three times daily administered isosorbide dinitrate three times daily administration of isosorbide dinitrate may avoid much of the tolerance seen with more frequent dosing. to determine the daylong pattern of the antianginal effect of three times daily isosorbide dinitrate, eight men with stable exertional angina and a positive exercise test were studied. the subjects had demonstrated increased exercise duration in response to oral isosorbide dinitrate therapy and absence of complete tolerance to long-term three times daily isosorbide dinitrate. treadmill exercise to onset of angina was performed over 2 days at 8 am, 9 am, 11 am, 1 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, 6 pm and 7 pm. on one day each patient received isosorbide dinitrate at 8 am, 1 pm and 6 pm in a previously titrated dose (mean 27.5 mg), which had been taken three times daily for at least 2 weeks. on the other day at the same hours each patient received double blind a placebo identical in appearance to isosorbide dinitrate. one hour after the 8 am dose of isosorbide dinitrate, mean systolic blood pressure at rest had fallen by 19 mm hg and mean exercise time to angina increased by 200 s. however, by 11 am exercise time had returned to control level. one hour after the 1 pm dose of isosorbide dinitrate, exercise time increased by a mean of 150 s but was again at control level 2 h later.
the role of calcium ions and calcium channel entry blockers in experimental ischemia-reperfusion-induced liver injury. verapamil administered before treatment, but not after treatment, had a beneficial effect on a 90-minute warm ischemia-reperfusion rat liver injury model. the possible activation of proteases converting the xanthine dehydrogenase to xanthine oxidase, the significant mitochondrial calcium loading during the ischemic period, and the potentiation of calcium and oxygen-derived free radicals to promote injury to mitochondria are mechanisms supported by this study, based on both histologic observations and on the pattern of enzyme leak after the acute ischemic event.
clinical diagnosis of tamponade in malawi. a consecutive series of 25 malawian patients with tamponade secondary to tuberculosis were compared to 25 patients with congestive cardiac failure, without pericardial effusion in a retrospective study. more patients with tamponade had an impalpable apex beat (21/1), pulsus paradoxus (13/0), soft heart sounds (13/2), paradoxical rise in jugular venous pressure (6/0), and fewer had a murmur (1/14). all these results are significant (p less than 0.05) by the chi 2 test with yates' correction. the presence of two or more of these discriminating physical signs has a positive predictive value of 75 per cent, and a negative predictive value of 99.5 per cent for the diagnosis of tamponade. clinical diagnosis of tamponade by primary health care personnel in malawi should be possible, and lead to earlier treatment.
potential role of igg avidity for diagnosing toxoplasmosis. sera from 20 cases of toxoplasmic lymphadenopathy were examined by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay toxoplasma igg avidity (elisa) at two laboratories. the results obtained were largely in agreement and showed that sera from patients with acute infection had low avidity igg (30% or less), whereas sera from patients with chronic infection had high avidity igg (40% or more). it is suggested that this type of assay could have a useful complementary role in antenatal testing for toxoplasmosis.
calculated risk of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations. genetic counseling concerning the risks of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations can be difficult; the risk of amniocentesis is weighed against that of chromosomal abnormalities in either one or both of the twins. because most twins are dizygotic (each with a risk a priori of aneuploidy), the chance that one of the fetuses is affected is greater than would be expected for a singleton. only three possibilities would result in either one or both twin's being affected: 1) dizygotic twins with one fetus affected, 2) dizygotic twins with both fetuses affected, and 3) monozygotic twins with both fetuses affected. using existing tables of estimated risks of chromosomal abnormalities in singleton gestations and mathematically derived formulas, we created tables defining the age-related risks of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations. according to these tables, a patient at 33 years of age with a twin gestation has a risk of down syndrome in at least one of her twins equivalent to that of a 35-year-old with a singleton. prenatal genetic testing should be considered for women with twins at a younger age than the traditional 35.
epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infections among guatemalan ambulatory preschool children. acute respiratory tract infections (ari) were studied during a 2-year period in 521 preschool children living in a marginal area of guatemala city. there were 3,646 episodes of ari detected during 26,329 child-weeks at risk, for an incidence of 14 per 100 child-weeks or 7.2 episodes per child per year. the median duration of ari episodes was 11 days. the highest incidence of ari was observed in children 6-23 months old. boys had more respiratory tract illnesses than did girls; the presence of a cigarette smoker in the household was associated with higher morbidity. acute lower respiratory tract illnesses (alri) were more common among younger infants 0-5 months old, with nutritional status having no apparent effect. parental formal education and crowding in households were found to be directly related to the incidence of alri. in general, ari morbidity interfered with appropriate physical growth.
influence of otitis media on the correlation between rectal and auditory canal temperatures. in a noninterventional, controlled, single-blinded trial, 251 children were examined in a university hospital emergency department setting to study the influence of acute otitis media on the relationship between rectal and auditory canal temperatures. bilateral auditory canal temperatures were measured using an infrared detection probe and microprocessor by nursing staff blinded to the presence of acute otitis media. correlation between rectal and auditory canal temperatures in children with (r = .81) and without (r = .75) acute otitis media were not significantly different. there was no significant difference between infected (38.1 degrees c +/- 1.0 degree c) and uninfected ears (38.0 degrees c +/- 1.0 degree c) with unilateral otitis (n = 75). although significantly higher than in uninfected children, auditory canal temperatures of children with acute otitis media reflected elevated rectal temperatures and not differences in auditory canal temperatures between ears.
maternal and fetal complications in pregnant women with systemic lupus erythematosus. recent studies provide important insights into maternal complications in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) established before onset of pregnancy. exacerbations or relapse occur during the course of pregnancy and immediately postpartum in 25% to 60% of pregnancies. however, the likelihood of increased clinical activity of sle during pregnancy is influenced by signs of activity present at onset of pregnancy. in the absence of signs of clinical activity for at least 6 months before conception, relapses occur in about one third, whereas in patients with clinical activity at onset of pregnancy, persistent activity or exacerbations occur in approximately two thirds. fetal survival in these patients parallels the incidence of sle activity: 85% to 95% in the group with inactive disease at conception and 50% to 80% in subjects with active disease at onset of pregnancy. the introduction of an assay for anticardiolipids has led to a new concept for the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease, namely immune-related thrombosis. recent studies suggest that this mechanism may play an important role in clinical episodes in sle, involving late fetal death and maternal arterial and venous thrombosis.
prostate cancer: local staging with endorectal surface coil mr imaging. endorectal surface coil magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was used to stage the local extent of prostate cancer in 22 patients. the endorectal coil images were acquired with a 10-12-cm field of view and a 4-mm section thickness. all pathologic specimens were reviewed by one pathologist. endorectal surface coil mr imaging was 82% accurate in the differentiation of stage b from stage c cancer. one case was overestimated, and three cases were underestimated. the three underestimated cases consisted of two cases of microscopic capsular invasion and one case of minimal seminal vesicle invasion. in a comparison of retrospective, blinded readings of endorectal coil and body coil images, there was an average improvement in accuracy of 16% in staging prostate cancer with endorectal coil images.
in vitro drug sensitivity of cells from children with leukemia using the mtt assay with improved culture conditions. the knowledge about drug resistance in childhood leukemias and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) in general is limited. this is because of the lack of a suitable in vitro drug sensitivity assay, which is in part due to low in vitro all cell survival. we recently adapted the highly efficient 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (mtt) assay to test cells from all patients and showed that its results were comparable with those of the disc assay, up to now the most valid but laborious assay. in this study, in vitro drug sensitivity was assessed in cells from 82 children with leukemia, 79 of whom had all, with the mtt assay. dose response curves were obtained for 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine (6-tg), prednisolone (pred), daunorubicin (dnr), vincristine (vcr), cytosine arabinoside (ara-c), l-asparaginase (l-asp), mafosfamide, and mustine. a cytotoxic effect of methotrexate could be detected in only a few cases. large interindividual differences in drug sensitivity were detected. compared with leukemia cells from newly diagnosed patients, leukemia cells from relapsed patients were significantly more in vitro resistant to 6-tg, pred, ara-c, mafosfamide and mustine but not to dnr, vcr, and l-asp. improvements of culture medium and methods to increase mtt reduction were studied. from 10 components tested, addition of insulin and bovine serum albumin to serum-containing medium improved all cell survival. addition of succinate did not increase the amount of mtt reduction. we conclude that the in vitro mtt assay highly facilitates large-scale studies on drug resistance of all patients that can lead to rational improvements in existing treatment protocols.
the no-scalpel vasectomy. a refined method of delivering the vas deferens for vasectomy has been developed and used in china since 1974. this method eliminates the scalpel, results in fewer hematomas and infections, and leaves a smaller wound than conventional techniques. an extracutaneous fixation ring clamp encircles and firmly secures the vas without penetrating the skin. a sharp curved hemostat punctures and dilates the scrotal skin and vas sheath. the vas is delivered, cleaned and occluded by the surgeon's preferred technique. the contralateral vas is delivered through the same opening. the puncture wound contracts to about 2 mm., is not visible to the man and requires no sutures for closure. the reported incidence of hematoma in 179,741 men followed in china was 0.09%. no hematomas or infections were identified in the first 273 procedures performed by a surgeon in the united states. the operating time in china and for the last 50 united states procedures has ranged from 5 to 11 minutes. the disadvantage of the technique is the hand-on training and number of cases necessary to gain proficiency. however, the advantages for surgeons and patients should enhance the popularity of vasectomy.
the natural history of non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy. seventy one patients with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy were studied retrospectively. sixty three (89%) were followed to the end of the study or death, mean follow up time was 5.3 years. whilst twenty (28%) had diabetes or hypertension, in thirty nine (55%) no predisposing condition was identified. in those who had monocular disease at presentation (68), subsequent involvement of the second eye occurred in seventeen (25%), seven within the first year. nineteen patients died within the study period. of these, nine died from myocardial infarction and four from cerebrovascular disease. this is a significant increase above figures calculated from the office of population census and surveys (p less than 0.001 for all causes, p less than 0.002 for myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular disease). such an increase in mortality has not been previously reported, and implies that this condition carries a more sinister systemic prognosis than is frequently supposed.
progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head. a patient with localized scleroderma of the head, uveitis, and raynaud's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures, spastic hemiparesis, and local igg production in the cerebrospinal fluid. magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin.
liver transplantation in children. although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease, relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children, and good results have been elusive. technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success. at the university of california at los angeles, 39% of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years. we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure. one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children (mean age, 5.2 years; 48% younger than 3 years). no reduced-size grafts were used. scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction, including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques, ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation. preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds, resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes. cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks, and anti-t-cell antibody (okt3) was used for rejection (38%). amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations. eighty-two of one hundred three patients (80%) are alive. there were no intraoperative deaths. actuarial survival rates at 6 months, 1 year, and 5 years are 80%, 79%, and 77%, respectively. survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65% versus 85% at age more than 1 year (p = 0.08). retransplantation was performed in 19 patients (18%), with a survival rate of 58%. hepatic artery thrombosis, the most frequent technical complication, occurred in only 16 patients (13%). survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96% and 60%, respectively (p = 0.02). graft survival was only 47% if more than one steroid cycle was needed, compared to 75% survival with okt3 treatment. despite impairment of renal function (glomerular filtration rate [gfr] less than 80 cc/kg/min) in 54% of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27%, 90% of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth, development, and functional status. the following conclusions were made. (1) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early. (2) factors that enhance survival include technical precision, aggressive retransplantation, antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy, and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
occlusive vasculopathy in systemic lupus erythematosus. association with anticardiolipin antibody patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and with antiphospholipid antibody are subject to sudden occlusion of multiple blood vessels. we describe two patients with systemic lupus erythematosus with acute, catastrophic, widespread non-inflammatory visceral vascular occlusions associated with high-titer antiphospholipid antibody. the histopathologic features clearly distinguished these patients from classic systemic lupus erythematosus vasculitis. we further suggest that, based on a probable pathogenesis related to the presence of antiphospholipid antibody, and based on the non-inflammatory vascular occlusion, steroids and other immunosuppressive medications are of limited value. plasmapheresis along with anticoagulant therapy should be considered.
racial differences in the anterior circulation in cerebrovascular disease. how much can be explained by risk factors? the entry characteristics of 1367 patients enrolled into the extracranial/intracranial bypass study were examined to determine if site differences in intracranial and extracranial arterial lesions among racial groups could be explained by differences in risk factors. blacks were more often hypertensive, diabetic, or cigarette smokers, while whites had higher systolic blood pressure and hemoglobin values. orientals had the lowest prevalence of vascular risk factors. despite these differences in risk factors, multivariate analysis showed race to be an independent and strong predictor of the location of cerebrovascular lesions. to our knowledge, this study is unique in documenting risk factors prospectively and systematically in three racial groups simultaneously. although generalization is limited by possible biases related to patient selection, the results affirm previous tentative conclusions about the role of race in determining the location of cerebrovascular disease.
influence of bronchial arterial po2 on pulmonary vascular resistance. in six anesthetized and mechanically ventilated adult sheep, the bronchial artery was perfused with blood from an oxygenator-pump circuit. when the lungs were ventilated with 100% o2 and the bronchial o2 tension (pbro2) was approximately 600 torr, the mean of the pulmonary vascular resistances (pvr) measured at the beginning (3.32 +/- 0.29 units) and end (3.17 +/- 0.13 units) of the experiment was 3.24 +/- 0.20 units. when the pbro2 was changed to 58 +/- 1 torr, the pvr (2.99 +/- 0.14 units) did not change significantly. however, when the lungs were ventilated with air as pbro2 was decreased to 91 +/- 4, 77 +/- 3, 56 +/- 2, and 42 +/- 1 torr, the pvr increased to 3.67 +/- 0.18, 4.03 +/- 0.16, 4.79 +/- 0.19, and 4.71 +/- 0.35 units, respectively. however, when the pbro2 was decreased further to 26 +/- 1 and 13 +/- 1 torr, the pvr decreased to 3.77 +/- 0.28 and 3.91 +/- 0.30 units, respectively. in contrast, the bronchial vascular resistance decreased monotonically as pbro2 decreased. the bronchial circulation supplies vasa vasorum to the walls of all but the smallest pulmonary arteries, and it is therefore suggested that the po2 of the bronchial circulation is responsible for the bimodal response of the pulmonary vasculature, with stimulation of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction at moderate hypoxemia and of hypoxic pulmonary vasodilation at profound hypoxemia. the physiological and pathophysiological significance of the influence of systemic po2 on pulmonary vascular tone is discussed.
survival rates from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: recommendations for uniform definitions and data to report. survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest vary widely among locations. we surveyed the definitions used in published studies of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. data from 74 studies involving 36 communities showed survival rates ranging from 2% to 44%. there were five different case definitions and 11 different definitions of survivors. the absence of uniform definitions prevents meaningful intersystem comparisons, prohibits explorations of hypotheses about effective interventions, and interferes with the efforts of quality assurance. the most satisfactory numerator for a survival rate appears to be survival to hospital discharge; the most appropriate denominator appears to be witnessed adult cardiac arrest of presumed heart disease etiology, with ventricular fibrillation as the initial identified rhythm. proposed definitions for the data emergency medical services systems should report as they examine their cardiac arrest survival rates are presented.
thoracic epidural anesthesia improves global and regional left ventricular function during stress-induced myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. the aim of the present investigation was to study the effects of high thoracic epidural anesthesia (tea), including the cardiac sympathetic segments, on ischemic st-segment changes and left ventricular global and regional wall motion abnormalities. ten patients with a two- or three-vessel coronary artery disease, all treated with the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol because of severe stable angina pectoris, performed two identical exercise stress tests, the first without tea (control exercise) and the second with tea (tea exercise). before each stress test, intravenous metoprolol was given to achieve maximal or near maximal beta-adrenoceptor blockade. systolic and diastolic arterial pressures (radial artery cannula), heart rate, and rate-pressure product, as well as global and regional ejection fractions, using equilibrium radionuclide angiography in the left anterior oblique projection, were measured at rest and during maximal exercise. st-segment analysis (v3 or v5) was performed, and the regional wall motion score was calculated at control exercise and tea exercise. intravenous metoprolol or intravenous metoprolol plus tea at rest did not cause any significant changes of any of the variables. during tea exercise, systolic arterial pressure, diastolic arterial pressure, and rate-pressure product, but not heart rate, were significantly lower compared to control exercise. the global and anterolateral ejection fractions were significantly higher (52.8% versus 46.5% and 53.2% versus 46.0%, respectively, p less than 0.05), and the regional wall motion score was significantly lower (8.8 versus 11.8, p less than 0.01) during tea exercise than during control exercise. st-segment depression was significantly lower during tea exercise (-1.03 versus -1.84 mv, p less than 0.01).
alkaline reflux gastritis. alkaline reflux gastritis and the symptoms associated with alkaline reflux gastritis have been reported in the medical literature since shortly after billroth successfully performed his first gastrectomy in the 1880s. the disease process is produced by, or at least is associated with, the reflux of alkaline secretions into the gastric remnant. although it occurs after any procedure that ablates the pylorus including pyloroplasty, it would appear to be most common after a billroth ii gastrojejunostomy. how the alkaline secretions cause the gastritis is still controversial. clearly, the most effective therapy is to reroute the secretions from the biliary tract, pancreas, and duodenum so that they will not reflux into the gastric remnant. this is most effectively accomplished by a roux-en-y gastrojejunostomy with the afferent limb measuring at least 18 inches (40 cm). the surgeon and the patient should be aware that the construction of such a gastric outlet channel is associated with delayed gastric emptying. the etiology of this impaired emptying is also controversial. if the patient has symptoms of dumping (either early or late), these symptoms may also be abated using the roux limb. at least 40% of patients will have gastric outlet obstruction. supportive therapy is appropriate in the majority of these patients.
sodium-calcium interactions and salt-sensitive hypertension. in humans with essential hypertension, salt-induced increases in blood pressure have been reported to correlate directly with salt-induced increases in intracellular free calcium [( ca2+]i) in circulating mononuclear cells. these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that salt-induced increases in [ca2+]i mediate the phenomenon of salt sensitivity. circumstantial evidence suggests that salt-induced increases in intracellular sodium or in plasma levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d might mediate salt-induced increases in [ca2+]i and blood pressure. however, in humans with salt-sensitive hypertension, it remains to be determined: (1) whether salt-induced increases in white blood cell [ca2+]i reflect corresponding increases in vascular smooth muscle [ca2+]i; (2) whether salt-induced increases in [ca2+]i are a cause or consequence of salt-induced increases in blood pressure; and (3) whether salt-induced increases in 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d or intracellular sodium precede salt-induced increases in [ca2+]i.
unfading acral microlivedo. a discrete marker of thrombotic skin disease associated with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. small erythematous or cyanotic lesions on the hands and feet of four patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are described. these discrete lesions outline capillaries and do not disappear when pressure is applied. the histologic features are identical to those described in skin thrombotic syndrome associated with antiphospholipid antibodies, that is, microthrombi in dermal vessels without inflammation. in addition to indicating antiphospholipid antibodies in apparently healthy patients, this sign could be a marker of risk for large-vessel thrombosis.
syringomyelia secondary to compression of the cervical spinal cord by an extramedullary lymphoma. a case of syringomyelia secondary to an extramedullary cervical spinal cord compression by a non-hodgkin's lymphoma is described. after radiotherapy, the syrinx was no longer seen. the pathogenesis of this type of syrinx is discussed, and the potential benefit of radiotherapy in these cases is suggested.
ras gene mutations in intraductal papillary neoplasms of the pancreas. analysis in five cases. five intraductal papillary neoplasms of the pancreas were analyzed for the presence of the ras gene mutations. three (60%) of the five neoplasms showed point mutations at k-ras codon 12. this incidence of the mutations was rather low compared with that found with ordinary pancreatic adenocarcinoma. the presence of the mutations did not correlate with the severity of cellular atypia, but was apparently related to the size of the tumor. the two neoplasms that had no mutations were smaller than the others that had mutations. the analysis suggested that ras gene mutation is not the first genetic alteration of tumor progression, but that it occurs during the development of neoplasms of the pancreas.
early gastric cancer. twenty-eight-year experience. a retrospective study of early gastric cancer (60 patients) was performed to evaluate its diagnosis and treatment. ninety-five per cent of patients presented with nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms and 53.3% had been treated for presumed benign disease for up to 48 months before diagnosis. fiberoptic endoscopy detected these lesions more accurately than radiologic examination. the disease-free 5-year survival rate after resection was 76.4%. survival showed no significant correlation with sex, tumor site, macroscopic appearance, extent of gastric resection, or histopathologic type. tumors larger than 1.5 cm in diameter, invasion of submucosa, or lymph node metastasis resulted in significantly lower survival rates. three of eight patients with nodal metastasis survived 5 or more years, including one who had second-echelon deposits. a high index of suspicion may permit more frequent detection. extended lymphadenectomy (r2) is recommended to achieve the highest possible cure rate.
fate of patients undergoing transluminal angioplasty for lower-limb ischemia. a prospective study of 370 patients who underwent 500 percutaneous transluminal angioplasties (ptas) for lower-limb ischemia over a 7-year period was performed. a 97% follow-up rate was achieved. the first pta was successful in 188 patients (51%). of the failures, 31% were failed attempts at dilation and 73% occurred within 1 month of intervention. of the patients with failed pta, 39% underwent bypass surgery and 24% underwent amputation. the 30-day mortality rate was 3%, with 1% of the deaths attributed to pta. the survival rate at 5 years for the successes was double that for the failures (p less than .0005). the best results were in femoropopliteal stenoses with two or three patent calf vessels (cumulative patency rate, 78% at 3 years) and the worst in femoropopliteal occlusions with one or no patent calf vessels (cumulative patency rate, 25% at 3 years). log rank tests on the life-table data were used to show factors favoring a good outcome. it is concluded that pta is the treatment of first choice in suitable patients and, although the failure of intervention in critical ischemia has a significant risk, it is a valuable addition to the therapeutic options in patients with little chance of surgical treatment.
semi-closed, ex-situ, non-reversed or reversed autogenous vein grafting. a technique for femoro-distal arterial bypass. a technique is described for femoro-distal grafting in which vein is removed through very small incisions using the mayo vein stripper, valves are ablated with the vein "ex-situ", and the graft is inserted non-reversed or reversed according to arbitrary criteria as to its diameter, with the distal anastomosis performed under tourniquet control. early experience with 35 consecutive vein grafts showed no serious technical problems, satisfactory results and excellent patient acceptance.
weight gain at the time of menopause. we studied prospectively the weight change and the effect of weight change on changes in coronary heart disease risk factors in a population-based sample of 485 middle-aged women. all women were studied first in 1983 to 1984, when they were premenopausal and aged 42 to 50 years, and then restudied in 1987. women gained an average of 2.25 +/- 4.19 kg during this 3-year period; 20% of women gained 4.5 kg or more, and only 3% lost 4.5 kg or more. there were no significant differences in weight gain of women who remained premenopausal and those who had a natural menopause (+2.07 kg vs +1.35 kg). weight gain was significantly associated with increases in blood pressure and levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and fasting insulin. weight gain is thus a common occurrence for women at the time of menopause and is related to the changes in coronary heart disease risk factors observed during this period. efforts to lose weight or to prevent weight gain may help to mitigate the worsening in coronary heart disease risk factors in middle-aged women.
malignant transformation of adenomatous hyperplasia to hepatocellular carcinoma. to clarify the course of adenomatous hyperplasia (ah) of the liver, 17 patients with 20 biopsy-proven ah nodules were followed clinically for 1-5 years. at the initial biopsy the mean nodular diameter was 10 (sd 4) mm and the relative cellularity [( mean cellularity of ah divided by mean parenchymal cellularity] x 100) 141 (27). the criteria for diagnosis of malignant transformation of ah were both a doubling of nodular volume and changes on imaging. between 6 and 50 months after biopsy, 9 of the 18 nodules which could still be accurately identified met the criteria for transformation; histological proof of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) was obtained later for 7 of these 9 nodules. the product of diameter and cellularity (transformation index) was the strongest predictor of the time to transformation. 9 ah nodules did not undergo transformation--7 did not meet one or both criteria and 2 became undetectable by imaging. because of the high risk of malignant transformation, it can be concluded that ah is an absolute precursor of hcc. it should therefore be treated as a potential malignant disorder.
beta-adrenergic effects on carbohydrate metabolism in the unweighted rat soleus muscle. the effects of insulin on carbohydrate metabolism in atrophied rat soleus muscle are increased after unweighting by tail-cast suspension. this work has been extended by testing the effect of unweighting on the response of carbohydrate metabolism to isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic agonist. isoproterenol promoted glycogen degradation more in the unweighted than in the weight-bearing soleus but showed no differences in the extensor digitorum longus, which is unresponsive to hindlimb unweighting. in soleus muscles depleted of glycogen, to avoid varied inhibitory effects of glycogen on glycogen synthesis, isoproterenol inhibited this process more in the unweighted muscle. isoproterenol did not have a greater inhibitory effect on net uptake of 2-deoxy-d[1,2-3h]glucose by the unweighted muscle. measurements of intracellular 2-deoxy-[3h]glucose 6-phosphate and 3-o-methyl-d-[1-3h]glucose, which cannot be phosphorylated, showed that isoproterenol inhibited glucose phosphorylation but not transport. this effect could be explained by an increase of glucose 6-phosphate, an inhibitor of hexokinase. at 100 microu insulin/ml but not at a lower amount (10 microu/ml), isoproterenol inhibited hexose phosphorylation more in the control than in the unweighted muscle. this result may be explained by greater insulin antagonism in the unweighted muscle owing to increased insulin sensitivity. however, insulin antagonism of isoproterenol stimulation of glycogenolysis or inhibition of glycogenesis was not altered by unweighting. therefore, for some aspects of carbohydrate metabolism, the unweighted muscle has an increased response to beta-adrenergic activation, just as this muscle shows increased responses to insulin.
anaplastic carcinoma presenting with cervical lymphadenopathy. we describe 50 patients with anaplastic carcinoma presenting with a mass in the neck. the diagnosis of anaplastic carcinoma was confirmed by immunocytochemistry to exclude very poorly differentiated squamous carcinomas, amelanotic melanoma, and non-hodgkin's lymphoma. the primary site was established immediately in 26 patients (25 in the head and neck; 1 in the lung); a further 4 had radiological evidence of a primary tumour in the lung. the primary site was established later in 1 patient, in the ethmoid sinuses. in 20 patients the primary site was never established. the commonest primary site was the nasopharynx. the basic treatment policy was radiotherapy, although 20% of patients with a known primary tumour, and 50% of those without, were untreated. the 2-year survival was about 30% in both groups, and did not differ significantly. prognostic factors for survival were age, performance status, and t status of the primary tumour. sex, node status, node level, and laterality of nodes, were not.
dystonia in parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and progressive supranuclear palsy. adult-onset dystonia-parkinsonism is a syndrome in search of a pathology. we therefore reviewed the literature on dystonic manifestations in autopsy-proven cases of multiple system atrophy (msa), progressive supranuclear palsy (psp), and idiopathic parkinson's disease (pd). only 6 of 140 autopsy reports of msa remarked on the presence of dystonia in life, but personal observations suggest prominent antecollis may develop at some stage in up to 1/2 of sufferers. similarly, very few (15/118) clinicopathologic observations on psp included convincing dystonic manifestations, in contrast to some clinical reports where blepharospasm and early limb dystonia were prominent. virtually any form of focal and segmental dystonia may sometimes occur with clinically diagnosed pd, with occasional descriptions of hemidystonia-hemiparkinsonism. however, there is pathologic confirmation of this diagnosis in only 1 case. with many patients thought clinically to have pd proving pathologically to have another cause for their parkinsonism, the true frequency and the range of dystonic manifestations acceptable in pd remain unknown.
predictors of long-term survival after percutaneous aortic valvuloplasty: report of the mansfield scientific balloon aortic valvuloplasty registry. percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty was used to prospectively treat 492 elderly, symptomatic, nonsurgical patients suffering from severe aortic stenosis in 27 centers in north america and europe. at 1 year the overall survival rate was 64% and the event-free survival rate (survival free of valve replacement or repeat valvuloplasty) was 43%. clinical, catheterization and procedural variables were assessed to define prognostic variables. univariate analysis revealed that patients who survived had a lesser frequency of previous myocardial infarction (2% versus 6%, p less than 0.005), lower incidence of severe ventricular dysfunction (22% versus 48%, p less than 0.001) and lower incidence of symptoms of heart failure (60% versus 75%, p less than 0.02). history of angina (56% versus 45%, p = ns) and syncope (23% versus 16%, p = ns) were similar for both groups. values obtained at cardiac catheterization that differed in survivors and nonsurvivors included lower pulmonary artery systolic pressure (43 +/- 1 versus 54 +/- 2 mm hg, p less than 0.001), lower mean pulmonary artery pressure (28 +/- 1.0 versus 36 +/- 1.0 mm hg, p less than 0.001) and larger initial valve area (0.52 +/- 0.01 versus 0.47 +/- 0.02 cm2, p = 0.006). discriminate function analysis was performed to identify variables that independently predicted improved probability of survival. eight variables were significantly and independently predictive. these included age, initial cardiac output, initial left ventricular systolic pressures, initial left ventricular end-diastolic pressures, presence of coronary artery disease, new york heart association dyspnea classification, number of balloon inflations and final valve area.
mitral stenosis: evaluation with mr imaging after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty. to evaluate the pathoanatomic findings of mitral valve stenosis and changes after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty (pbv), magnetic resonance (mr) imaging was performed in 23 patients. the patients were imaged with a 2.0-t system within 1 week before and 3-10 days after pbv. the angle of the interatrial septum was measured on the transverse image to facilitate a successful transseptal puncture. on mr images, the mean transverse and anteroposterior diameters of the left atrium at the level of the aortic root in the ventricular diastolic phase decreased significantly after pbv. areas of flow-related intraluminal signal intensity detected in the left atrial cavity of 17 patients (74%) before the procedure disappeared in 15 patients after the procedure. other mr imaging findings after pbv were the disappearance of intraluminal signal intensity in the pulmonary artery, normal curvature of the interatrial and interventricular septa, and pericardial effusion as a complication. mr imaging was thought to provide useful information before and after pbv in patients with mitral stenosis.
interphase cytogenetic analysis detects minimal residual disease in a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and resolves the question of origin of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. we used in situ hybridization with a probe for the x chromosome to study interphase cells of bone marrow and peripheral blood specimens from a male patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by hyperdiploidy, including trisomy x. in a posttreatment bone marrow specimen, which was interpreted as a regenerating bone marrow morphologically and which demonstrated a normal karyotype cytogenetically, trisomy x was found in 16 of 1,000 interphase cells. this finding indicated the presence of leukemic cells that were undetected by conventional morphologic and cytogenetic techniques (ie, minimal residual disease). cytogenetic studies of a relapse specimen obtained after a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant showed only a normal female karyotype in each of 40 metaphase cells, suggesting that the relapse occurred in donor cells. however, interphase analysis demonstrated trisomy x in more than 80% of interphase cells and indicated that the relapse was of the original clone and was not a transformation of donor cells. this case illustrates that interphase analysis can be useful as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis in the detection of minimal residual disease and in the analysis of interphase cells that are not accessible to routine cytogenetic methods. it also illustrates that previously reported instances of relapse of leukemia in donor cells could have been incorrect if supported by cytogenetic data alone.
hepatic venoocclusive disease in autologous bone marrow transplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas. retrospective review of 291 solid tumor and lymphoma patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation (bmt) was performed to determine the influence of pretransplant characteristics and preparative regimen to the development of hepatic venoocclusive disease (vod). twelve patients (4.1%) developed a clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant (ruq) tenderness or hepatomegaly, jaundice, and ascites, with or without encephalopathy, within 40 days of marrow reinfusion. evidence of metastatic liver disease was the only pretransplant characteristic predictive for vod (p = .0002). sex, age, histology, hepatitis b serology, and elevated liver function tests were not predictive. no individual preparative agent had a significant effect on the development of vod. however, a single 2-hour infusion of carmustine (bcnu) (greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2) led to an increased incidence of vod when compared with the same dose administered in a fractionated schedule (p = .0258) when given with two other chemotherapeutic agents. seven of eight autopsy specimens confirmed the clinical diagnosis of vod. the four patients in whom clinical vod resolved had lower median peak bilirubins (7.3 v 15.9 mg/dl), lower median peak creatinines (2.1 v 4.1 mg/dl), and relatively quick engraftment of neutrophils (mean, 18.7 days). one of the four patients in whom vod resolved had other grade 4 (life-threatening) toxicities in contrast to eight of eight who succumbed. in summary, vod is an uncommon complication in autotransplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas. our data suggest caution in selecting patients with known metastatic liver disease and consideration of a fractionated bcnu schedule especially in combination with other alkylating agents.
nerve root avulsion of birth palsy: comparison of myelography with ct myelography and somatosensory evoked potential. findings at myelography and computed tomographic (ct) myelography were reviewed in 21 patients (22 limbs) with birth palsy; nerve root shadows were the focus of this study. myelography demonstrated 51 completely avulsed roots (78%) and 14 incompletely avulsed roots (22%). a traumatic meningocele was detected at 38 roots on myelograms and 51 roots on ct myelograms. thirteen avulsed roots (eight completely and five incompletely avulsed roots) (20%) were not associated with a meningocele. in nine patients who underwent brachial plexus exploration, myelographic findings were compared with root somatosensory evoked potential (sep). sep was not induced at 22 of 25 completely avulsed roots and was induced at all seven incompletely avulsed roots. myelography and sep were consistent in 29 of 32 roots (91%). it is concluded that myelography is indispensable for preoperative evaluation of cervical nerve root avulsion of birth palsy, because ct myelography is not sensitive to nerve root avulsion without a traumatic meningocele, and sep cannot enable one to discriminate incomplete avulsion from intact roots.
neoplastic changes in the stomach after gastrectomy. partial gastric resection for benign ulcer disease has been associated with an increased incidence of mucosal dysplasia and invasive adenocarcinoma, particularly 15 to 20 years after resection. these remnant carcinomas are particularly virulent with little hope of resection or cure once symptoms occur. using a planned protocol of routine endoscopic surveillance with biopsy, the goal was to identify early markers of neoplasia, that is, dysplasia, and a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the gastric remnant, while both resection and cure were possible. between july 1980 and august 1988, yearly flexible gastroscopic examination and random biopsy have been performed on 163 patients at least ten years after gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease. all biopsy results were interpreted for findings of dysplasia and early gastric adenocarcinoma. results of this ongoing screening program revealed dysplasia of the gastric remnant in nine patients with eventual findings of adenocarcinoma in four of this group. these patients underwent total gastrectomy with findings of limited disease. five patients with mucosal dysplasia continue to be observed at six month intervals. three additional gastric carcinomas were found on initial gastroscopic screening, while one patient had adenocarcinoma diagnosed during a third yearly gastroscopic examination. these eight asymptomatic patients with adenocarcinoma in the gastric remnant had a postgastrectomy interval which ranged from 15 to 29 years (mean of 26.5 years). the results of this study support the concept of neoplastic change in the gastric remnant as a function of time from initial gastric resection. findings of dysplasia on random biopsy indicate a greater likelihood of development of carcinoma of the gastric remnant and identify a subset of patients requiring aggressive endoscopic surveillance.
postoperative hypoxemia after nonabdominal surgery: a frequent event not caused by nitrous oxide. we tested whether anesthesia that includes nitrous oxide (n2o) results in the development of intraoperative and postoperative pulmonary complications, including hypoxemia. we also tested whether aging contributes to the development of such complications, particularly when anesthesia includes n2o. we randomly allocated patients having total hip replacements, carotid endarterectomies, or transsphenoidal hypophysectomies (total n = 270) to an anesthetic regimen with and without n2o (stratified within surgical group). a heat-and-moisture exchanger was included in the anesthetic circuit of all patients. patients were monitored perioperatively and for 1 wk after surgery using intermittent and continuous pulse oximetry to determine oxyhemoglobin saturation. intraoperatively, mean oxygen (o2) saturations were lower in patients given n2o, particularly older patients. hypoxemia (o2 saturation less than 86%) developed in five patients receiving n2o and in one receiving o2. this difference was not significant. administration of n2o did not decrease postoperative o2 saturation, nor did it alter the incidence of postoperative hypoxemia, cough, or sputum production.
acoustic schwannoma and epidermoid cyst occurring as a single cerebellopontine angle mass. the case of a 66-year-old man with a 3-year progressive hearing loss and a homogeneous left cerebellopontine angle mass on magnetic resonance imaging scan is described. at surgery, the major portion of the mass was a typical encapsulated, solid, acoustic schwannoma, but the most rostral portion was a distinct, flaky, cystic mass without a well-defined capsule, typical of an epidermoid cyst. the radiographic and operative findings of this unique coexistence of two different benign cerebellopontine angle masses are presented.
scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass. we report the ct, mri, and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass. even though bone destruction was better shown with ct, the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with mri. the arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery.
detection of gastric erosions: comparison of biphasic radiography with fiberoptic endoscopy. biphasic radiography was compared with fiberoptic endoscopy in detecting gastric erosions in a prospective, blinded study of 385 patients with dyspepsia. because no absolute standard was available for the comparison, since histologic confirmation of all erosions was not possible, the kappa statistic was used to compare results from both modalities. flat (incomplete) erosions were detected with endoscopy only and were considered to be present in 42 patients (11.2%). varioliform (complete) erosions were identified with both radiography and endoscopy in 12 patients (3.2%). for the detection of varioliform erosions, a substantial agreement beyond chance between both modalities was found (kappa = 0.73; standard error, 0.12). thus, flat erosions were detected with endoscopy only, whereas state-of-the-art radiography and endoscopy were equally sensitive for detecting varioliform erosions. histologic confirmation of erosions was obtained in only 75% of the patients. it is unknown whether the demonstration of erosions with radiography and/or endoscopy correlates with dyspepsia.
identification of a highly polymorphic microsatellite vntr within the argininosuccinate synthetase locus: exclusion of the dystonia gene on 9q32-34 as the cause of dopa-responsive dystonia in a large kindred. dopa-responsive dystonia is a clinical variant of idiopathic torsion dystonia that is distinguished from other forms of dystonia by the frequent occurrence of parkinsonism, diurnal fluctuation of symptoms, and its dramatic therapeutic response to l-dopa. linkage of a gene causing classic dystonia in a large non-jewish kindred (dyt1) and in a group of ashkenazi jewish families, to the gelsolin (gsn) and arginino-succinate synthetase (ass) loci on chromosome 9q32-34, respectively, was recently determined. here we report the discovery of a highly informative (gt)n repeat vntr polymorphism within the ass locus. analysis of a large kindred with dopa-responsive dystonia, using this new polymorphism and conventional rflps for the 9q32-34 region, excludes loci in this region as a cause of this form of dystonia. this provides proof of genetic heterogeneity between classic idiopathic torsion dystonia and dopa-responsive dystonia.
helicobacter pylori and associated duodenal ulcer. twenty three children with coexistent duodenal ulcer and helicobacter pylori infection were treated with either two weeks of amoxycillin (25 mg/kg/day) in addition to six weeks of cimetidine, or cimetidine alone. endoscopy with antral and duodenal biopsies for urease test, microaerophilic culture, and histological studies were performed at entry, six weeks, 12 weeks, and at six months. children with persistent h pylori infection at six weeks were given a further two weeks' course of amoxycillin. h pylori persisted in all children not receiving amoxycillin treatment but cleared in six of the 13 children (46%) treated with amoxycillin. with failure of h pylori clearance at six months, only two out of six (33%) ulcers had healed and 50% of patients had experienced ulcer recurrence. in contrast, when h pylori remained cleared all ulcers healed and no ulcer recurred. persistent h pylori infection was associated with persistent gastritis and duodenitis despite endoscopic evidence of ulcer healing. detection and eradication of h pylori deserves particular attention in the routine management of duodenal ulceration in children.
clinical evaluation of a side entry access port: a novel dual-lumen venous access device. the initial clinical experience with a low-profile side entry access (sea) dual-lumen implantable venous access port for cancer chemotherapy administration is summarized in this report. the catheter material is polyurethane. the overall experience in 35 patients in this study was a total of 6,224 patient days, with a mean of 178 days per patient. a variety of chemotherapeutic agents, biologic response modifiers, and antibiotics were administered. in 26% of the patients, the device chambers were in simultaneous use during the treatment period. a 6% incidence of clinical subclavian vein thrombosis was noted. there was no infectious complications. inconsistencies in blood withdrawal and temporary catheter dysfunction were comparable to other access ports in clinical use. the novel design of this side entry port and the catheter material of low thrombogenicity make this device a good option in patients requiring a low-profile system and dual access. nursing staff should be made aware of the side entry design and that in-service training for accessing the septum is required in centers where such devices are not routinely used.
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty in the management of clotted hemodialysis grafts: early and late clinical results. the results of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty of 121 thrombosed hemodialysis grafts were reviewed. the initial pharmacomechanical method (used in 65 cases) employed clot maceration with hook-shaped catheters and clot lacing with highly concentrated urokinase. the current technique (used in 56 cases) consisted of pulsed-spray injection of urokinase into the clot. all fully treated grafts (117 cases) underwent complete or near-complete thrombolysis, and 93% remained patent after 1 day. mean time for pulsed-spray lysis was 46 minutes +/- 21. one patient (less than 1%) had gastrointestinal bleeding and received a transfusion; minor complications occurred in 3% of patients. primary and secondary graft patency rates for both methods at 1 year were 26% and 51%, respectively. while graft age and results of angioplasty did not influence future graft patency, shorter intervals between graft thromboses was predictive of earlier subsequent graft failure. results suggest that pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty provide rapid, consistent, and safe recanalization of clotted hemodialysis grafts and represent a promising additional therapeutic approach to long-term graft management.
endoscopic coagulation of the choroid plexus using the nd:yag laser: initial experience and proposal for management. although most patients with hydrocephalus are treated effectively with ventriculoperitoneal shunts, a small group fails to respond to diversion procedures. in some patients within this group, hydrocephalus may be caused in part by the overproduction of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf). in other patients, previous shunt infections may limit the ability of the peritoneum to absorb fluid, and patient response to a ventriculoperitoneal shunt may be improved by reducing csf production. we discuss a case of a 29-month-old hydrocephalic infant with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt who had ascites. computed tomography showed bilateral symmetrical enlargement of the choroid plexus. repeated cultures of the csf and shunt tubing were sterile, and the daily production of the csf exceeded 1000 ml. therapy with acetazolamide decreased the csf output temporarily, but it was discontinued after serious electrolyte abnormalities occurred. the endoscopic coagulation of the choroid plexus with a neodymium:yag laser transmitted through a flexible quartz fiber decreased csf production effectively. this procedure may be useful in a variety of clinical conditions associated with hydrocephalus or with other intraventricular lesions.
estimation of myocardial ischemic injury during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest using high-energy phosphates and lactate as metabolic markers. study objective: to define the time course of myocardial ischemic injury using high-energy phosphate (hep) depletion and the cessation of lactate production as metabolic markers. setting: data were collected in a laboratory animal model. type of participants: ten immature mixed breed swine weighing 23.2 +/- 3.5 kg. design: after thoracotomy, transmural myocardial biopsies were taken in vivo during normal sinus rhythm and at designated times during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest (vf-tca). measurements and main results: frozen tissue samples were analyzed for adenine nucleotides, by high-performance liquid chromatography, and lactate by enzymatic assay. at five minutes of vf-tca, myocardial adenosine triphosphate averaged 50% of control. at 15 minutes of vf-tca, 89% of animals had myocardial adenosine triphosphate levels above 20% of control and adenylate charge ratio above 0.60. with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca, all animals had adenosine triphosphate levels below 10% of control and adenylate charge ratio below 0.30. in addition, myocardial lactate levels plateaued after 30 minutes of vf-tca, indicating the cessation of lactate production. conclusion: these results suggest that the myocardium can tolerate vf-tca for as long as 15 minutes without irreversible injury; however, post-ischemic myocardial dysfunction may occur after as little as five minutes of vf-tca. with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca, myocardial injury is likely to be irreversible.
immediate preoperative phlebotomy with autologous blood donation for aortic replacement. the preferential use of autologous blood provided by phlebotomy can reduce the need for homologous blood transfusion in patients undergoing extensive elective operations. this blood is usually provided either by intraoperative isovolemic hemodilution or phlebotomy one to two weeks preoperatively. to minimize the intraoperative time delay or preoperative period between phlebotomy and operation required in these patients, we performed preoperative isovolemic hemodilution in 69 patients one to two days prior to elective aortic replacement for infrarenal aneurysmal disease. patients underwent phlebotomy a mean of 0.57 +/- 0.01 liter of whole blood; volume was replaced with lactated ringer's solution. hematocrit levels decreased from a mean value of 42.9 +/- 0.4 per cent to 33.7 +/- 0.3 per cent. mean intraoperative blood loss was 1.2 +/- 0.05 liters. hemodynamic parameters (blood pressure, cardiac output, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, central venous pressure, oxygen delivery and systemic vascular resistance) remained stable throughout the perioperative and intraoperative time periods. in addition, we evaluated the technical modification of exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy (n = 50) versus open aneurysmorraphy (n = 19) on reduction of intraoperative homologous blood transfusion in these patients. seventy-two per cent (36 of 50) of patients whose aneurysms were excluded received no homologous blood intraoperatively. blood loss was decreased in the excluded versus open aneurysmorraphy group, 920 +/- 90 milliliters versus 2,030 +/- 250 milliliters, as were homologous blood transfusion requirements, 175 +/- 35 milliliters versus 570 +/- 119 milliliters. two patients died (2.9 per cent mortality rate), and there was no increase in morbidity. surgical treatment of large aortic aneurysms is frequently performed on an urgent basis; thus, provision of autologous blood for this operation in a short period of time may be beneficial. isovolemic hemodilution performed during the immediate preoperative period can reduce homologous blood requirements and be safely performed without adverse effects on mortality, morbidity and myocardial performance. exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy may further reduce dependence on homologous blood.
laparoscopic tubal sterilization. the potential for thermal bowel injury. one of the most severe complications of laparoscopic tubal sterilization is bowel burns, although they often go undetected at the time of laparoscopy. controversy remains over whether these injuries are caused directly by operator error or indirectly from a hot oviduct's or instrument's inadvertently touching and burning the intestine. a study was performed to determine the potential for direct or indirect bowel burns using bipolar electrocoagulation in rabbits. the results indicate that neither a hot tube nor hot (recently used) forceps could cause injuries to the serosal surface of the intestine. that was true both of immediate injury and after one to five days of recovery. it was observed that the hot uterine tube caused significant bowel adhesions by five days after the procedure. direct electrocoagulation of the bowel using 40 w for three seconds caused a minor, noticeable blanch on the bowel that was not detectable with gross or histologic means after one day of recovery. a direct bowel injury did result when 80 w was used for three seconds; the bowel became perforated after one day. these findings indicate that it is unlikely that one can produce a bowel burn indirectly from a hot uterine tube or instrument and that only a direct insult to the bowel appears to cause an injury. however, adhesions could be a complication of the procedure and should be considered.
methyl prednisolone in double-lumen gel-saline submuscular mammary prostheses: a double-blind, prospective, controlled clinical trial. at the time of immediate breast reconstruction with submuscular implants, 76 consecutive patients (89 breasts) were randomized into two groups. one received a gel-saline, double-lumen implant with 40 cc of saline added to the outer lumen, while the other received the same implant plus 40 cc of saline and 16 mg methyl prednisolone (40 mg%). patients were followed for a minimum of 3 years. the groups, which were matched for patient age and implant size, were evaluated at 3, 12, 24, and 36 months for capsular contracture, steroid atrophy, and other complications. with completion of the double-blind study, the patients with submuscular gel-saline implants with only saline added had an overall capsular contracture rate of 38 percent at 3 months, 38 percent at 12 months, and 44 percent at 24 and 36 months. those with methyl prednisolone had an overall capsular contracture rate of 14 percent at 3 months, and this remained unchanged through the end of the study. the rates of all other complications were comparable. methyl prednisolone in a dose of 16 mg in 40 cc saline (concentration 40 mg%), when used in the outer lumen of a double-lumen gel-saline implant in a submuscular pocket, is both safe and efficacious in reducing the risk of capsular contracture for a minimum of 3 years in patients undergoing immediate breast reconstruction with submuscular mammary implants.
health care screening for people with mental handicap living in the community objective--to determine what contact people with mental handicap had had with their general practitioner in the previous year; what prescribed drugs they were taking and whether these had been reviewed; when hearing and vision had last been screened; and what medical problems were found on examination. design--case series. setting-day centre for adults with mental handicap. subjects--a balanced sample of 75 of the 150 people attending the day centre. 10 were excluded because consent was not given. results--the subjects did not consult their general practitioners more frequently than the general population but were more likely to be taking prescribed drugs, and 57% of these prescriptions had not been reviewed by a doctor. thirty three people failed vision screening, including 13 who wore glasses. twenty seven of the 62 who were testable had a hearing impairment. conclusions--as only eight out of 65 people examined in the study did not have an appreciable problem brought to light, screening seems to be worth while. whether such screening needs to be done by a medically qualified person needs further research.
transesophageal echocardiography in the awake elderly patient: its role in the clinical decision-making process. to assess the impact on the management and safety of transesophageal echocardiography (tee) in the elderly population, the results and limitations of this technique were retrospectively analyzed in 88 patients. tee was indicated whenever the transthoracic approach was not diagnostic or was inconsistent with the clinical setting. the most frequent clinical indications were to investigate the source of emboli, assess valvular regurgitation, and identify valvular vegetations. in 72 patients (82%) tee significantly influenced management decisions. in selected patients tee avoided the use of more invasive diagnostic procedures. adverse effects included occasional premature atrial or ventricular beats (11 patients), sinus bradycardia (six patients), and protracted nausea (one patient). we conclude that in elderly patients with cardiovascular diseases, tee plays a significant role in the decision-making process without adding a significant risk.
direct vasopressor effect of recombinant human erythropoietin on renal resistance vessels. the contractile properties of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhuepo) on isolated resistance vessels of renal and mesenteric vascular beds were studied in an in vitro model using a small vessel myograph. under isometric conditions, rhuepo caused a contraction of this vasculature in a concentration range between 10 u/ml and 200 u/ml. a maximal active wall tension of 1.52 +/- 0.19 mn/mm was obtained under a rhuepo dose of 200 u/ml. in ca2+ free solution, the pressor response to high rhuepo-concentrations was attenuated, and the response to low rhuepo concentrations was abolished. in the presence of verapamil, phentolamine and saralasin, rhuepo-induced contractions were not affected significantly. a dose-dependent vasodilatation of mounted vasculature to acetylcholine (ach) indicated that endothelium remained intact in our preparations. rhuepo-induced vessel contraction was not abrogated after an enzymatical removal of endothelium by collagenase, confirming that the described contractile responses are endothelial independent. these findings suggest that a direct vasopressor effect of rhuepo on proximal resistance vessels may contribute to development of hypertension seen in rhuepo-treated hemodialysis patients.
multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses. the purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called exserohilum rostratum. exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis, a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi. this class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious, progressive pansinusitis. to our knowledge, this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to e rostratum. the diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens. a craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles. aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described.
clinical implications of screening for cervical cancer under medicare. the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly: what do we know? what do we need to know? despite the recent passage of coverage for papanicolaou test screening under medicare, several aspects of the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly remain uncertain. this article reviews what we know about cervical cancer in elderly women to provide clinicians with the background necessary for assessments of screening recommendations, integration of new data into practice, and development of consensus approaches to screening in the elderly. two central questions that affect a screening program for the elderly are how long the neoplastic process takes from preinvasive disease to the development of invasive cancer, and how likely is it that a given neoplastic state observed in an elderly woman will, in fact, progress to a more severe state. the ultimate success of the new medicare benefit will also be affected by the use of papanicolaou testing, the technique of obtaining the smear, and the adequacy of reporting and follow-up. the expansion of medicare benefits to include early cervical cancer detection has the potential to improve the quality and the duration of older women's lives.
swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and pulmonary artery false aneurysm. swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and later pulmonary artery false aneurysm occurred in a patient with prosthetic mitral regurgitation. this patient was successfully managed by double-lumen endotracheal intubation, control of pulmonary hypertension, reversal of anticoagulation, mitral valve re-replacement, and transcatheter embolization. the pertinent literature is reviewed.
neodymium: yag laser hysteroscopy in large submucous fibroids. the preoperative use of a potent, subcutaneously injected gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (gnrh-a) was evaluated in a series of 60 women with large submucosal fibroids. myomectomy by hysteroscopy and nd:yag laser was easily performed. in 12 cases, the largest portion of the myoma was not inside the uterine cavity and myomectomy was carried by a two-step hysteroscopy. in women who wished to become pregnant, a pregnancy rate of 66% was achieved. advantages of preoperative use of a gnrh-a are (1) the significant decrease of the fibroid size, (2) a lower fluid absorption, and (3) the restoration of a normal hemoglobin concentration.
p53 expression in colorectal tumors. the expression of the nuclear phosphoprotein p53 was studied immunohistochemically in a series of 150 benign and malignant colorectal tumors. using monoclonal antibody pab1801, tumors divided unequivocally into two groups on the basis of immunohistochemistry. forty of the carcinomas (46.5%) showed positive staining but only 4 of the adenomas (8.7%) were positive (p less than 0.001). the few positive adenomas always showed moderate or severe dysplasia. metaplastic polyps (n = 9) and small familial adenomatous polyposis-related adenomas (n = 9) were uniformly negative. carcinomas with p53 expression did not differ from those without in terms of site, differentiation or the prognostic indicators of dukes' stage, dna ploidy, or tumor histology. the improved morphologic resolution available in periodate lysine paraformaldehyde dichromate (plpd)-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue permitted several conclusions to be made: p53 is confined to neoplastic nuclei; staining in positive tumors is heterogeneous and often more marked at the infiltrative margins; and staining intensity is dramatically reduced in mitotic cells. it is concluded that expression of immunohistochemically detectable p53 (probably representing mutated forms of the protein) occurs in some adenomas around the time of transition to carcinoma. therefore there is an association with the appearance of infiltrative behavior but not with degree of tumor progression (including metastasis) at the time of resection.
quality-of-life-adjusted evaluation of adjuvant therapies for operable breast cancer. the international breast cancer study group objective: to evaluate a single cycle of adjuvant chemotherapy compared with longer duration chemotherapy for premenopausal women or chemoendocrine therapy for postmenopausal women with operable breast cancer using a quality-of-life-oriented end point, q-twist (quality-adjusted analysis of twist: time without symptoms and toxicity). design: multicenter randomized clinical trial--international breast cancer study group (ibcsg: formerly ludwig group) trial v. setting: ibcsg participating centers in sweden, switzerland, australia, yugoslavia, spain, new zealand, italy, germany, and south africa. patients: data were available for 1229 eligible patients with node-positive breast cancer who were randomized to receive one of three adjuvant treatments after at least a total mastectomy and axillary clearance. interventions: patients received either a single cycle of perioperative chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil, and leucovorin; or six cycles (6 months) of a conventionally timed chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil, and prednisone for premenopausal women or this combination plus tamoxifen for postmenopausal women; or both perioperative and conventionally timed chemotherapy for a 7-month course of adjuvant therapy. results: at 5 years of median follow-up, patients who received the longer duration therapies had an improved 5-year disease-free survival percentage (53% compared with 36%; p less than 0.001) and 5-year overall survival percentage (73% compared with 63%; p = 0.001) compared with those who received the single perioperative cycle alone. by 3.5 years, the greater burden of toxic effects associated with the longer duration treatments was balanced by their superior control of disease. within 5 years of follow-up, even after subtracting time with adjuvant treatment toxicity, patients gained an average of 2.2 months of q-twist if treated with the longer duration therapies compared with the single cycle (p = 0.03). the gain for premenopausal patients was 2.8 months (p = 0.05), whereas the gain for postmenopausal women was 1.5 months (p greater than 0.2). conclusions: six or seven months of adjuvant chemotherapy or chemoendocrine therapy improve both the quantity and quality of life for patients with node-positive breast cancer compared with a single short course of perioperative combination chemotherapy.
embryologic fusion planes and the spread of cutaneous carcinoma: a review and reassessment. it has long been held that embryologic fusion planes influence the spread of skin cancer. embryologic fusion planes have been implicated in the depth of invasion, horizontal spread, and recurrence of cutaneous carcinoma. however, these structures have never been studied in detail. a review of the surgical literature reveals considerable confusion regarding the exact nature, location, and tumor interactions of these fusion planes. we review the gross and microscopic development of sites of embryologic fusion. we examine histologic sections through fusion sites in normally developed adult and fetal fresh cadaver specimens. our studies, supported by our review of developmental anatomy, indicate that fusion planes do not persist as identifiable anatomic structures that would influence tumor spread.
hypertension, cigarette smoking, and the decline in stroke incidence in eastern finland. finland has high rates of both cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease risk factors. we studied random samples of the population 30-59 years of age for risk factors in two provinces of eastern finland in 1972 and 1977. we then followed both cohorts until 1985 through linkage with national hospital discharge and death certificate registers. the prevalence of hypertension and smoking in both provinces declined between 1972 and 1977, as did the stroke incidence in the 8-year period of follow-up of each cohort. we observed no differences in stroke incidence between the two provinces. the relative risk of stroke in the later period (1977-1985) was 0.71 and 0.58 for men and women, respectively, when compared with the earlier period (1972-1980). overall, 28% of all stroke events could be attributed to hypertension, 17% to smoking, and 43% to these two factors jointly. the decrease in the prevalence of hypertension and smoking accounted for about 29% of the decline.
activation of early events of the mitogenic response by a p2y purinoceptor with covalently bound 3'-o-(4-benzoyl)-benzoyladenosine 5'-triphosphate. 3'-o-(4-benzoyl)benzoyl-atp (bzatp), a photoaffinity analog of atp, was used as a ligand for a p2y purinoceptor (adenine nucleotide receptor) present in intact swiss 3t3 and 3t6 cells and a-431 epidermoid carcinoma cells. photolysis of serum-starved cells in the presence of 10-50 microm bzatp, followed by extensive washing to remove unincorporated bzatp, induced the release of arachidonic acid. a trace (less than 0.01%) of photoincorporated bzatp was as effective as when 50 microm bzatp or atp was contained in the incubation medium during the assay. photoincorporated bzatp also stimulated the production of prostaglandin e2 and the accumulation of cyclic amp. in previous studies, we demonstrated that these three events are obligatory early steps in a pathway leading to dna synthesis in the above cell lines. the evidence indicated that the purinoceptor activated by extracellular atp or bzatp was linked to a pertussis toxin-sensitive gtp-binding protein. consistent with these observations, we now find that pertussis toxin inhibits the effect of photoincorporated bzatp on arachidonic acid release. these results indicate that bzatp is an effective agonist for the p2y purinoceptor concerned with stimulation of dna synthesis in 3t3, 3t6, and a-431 cells. furthermore, after photolysis it becomes irreversibly associated with intact cells and promotes the activation of early events required for dna synthesis.
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation. a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards. subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards.
results of radiation therapy in carcinoma of the base of the tongue. the curie institute experience with about 166 cases. between 1960 and 1980, 166 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the base of the tongue were treated with primary irradiation at the curie institute (paris, france). distribution according to the tnm system 1978 international union against cancer (uicc) was the following: 22 t1 lesions, 47 t2 lesions, 64 t3 lesions, and 33 t4 lesions. regional nodes were not palpable in 50 cases, 35 had n1 nodes, 12 had n2 nodes, and 69 had n3 nodes. all patients received external beam radiation. the 2-year, 3-year, and 5-year overall survival rates for all patients were, respectively, 45%, 37%, and 27%. local control was significantly related to the initial status of the primary, to the tumor regression at the end of the radiation therapy, and to the histologic differentiation. the 2-year local control was 96% for t1 lesions, 57% for t2 lesions, 45% for t3 lesions, and 23% for t4 lesions. local control was 70% if the tumor regression was complete at the end of the treatment and 27% if the tumor regression was partial. no significant differences were found in primary local control with respect to degree of infiltration, age, and dose of radiation therapy over a dose of 60 gy in 6 weeks. the 3-year regional control was 86% for n0, 78% for n1, and 60% for n2 and n3. among the tumor characteristics analyzed, the most useful ones for predicting local control and survival were clinical tumor staging parameters and tumor radiation-induced regression. a new therapeutic approach based on the evaluation of the tumor regression at 50/55 gy is under discussion.
glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis are not results of spontaneous or surgical portosystemic shunting. to assess if spontaneous portosystemic shunting from collaterals contributes to the hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis, 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis underwent a 5-hour oral glucose tolerance test 1 day before and 10 days after an elective side-to-side portacaval shunt. the glucose, insulin, and c peptide responses to oral glucose post-shunt were exaggerated but comparable to preoperative values. compared with preoperative values, the fasting molar ratio of c peptide to insulin postoperatively had increased 40% (6.0 +/- 1.2 versus 8.4 +/- 0.7), indicating improved hepatic function. these results suggest that extrahepatic portosystemic shunting secondary to spontaneous splanchnic collaterals plays little or no role in the hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis. it appears that decreased hepatic degradation of insulin in these patients is secondary to hepatocellular dysfunction rather than a result of shunting of portal blood around the liver.
mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction in aortic regurgitation: importance for predicting the functional response to aortic valve replacement to test the hypothesis that the combined use of the time-varying elastance concept and conventional circumferential stress-shortening relations would elucidate differential mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction in severe, chronic aortic regurgitation and therefore predict the functional responses to aortic valve replacement, 31 control patients and 37 patients with aortic regurgitation were studied. the studies included micromanometer left ventricular pressure determinations, biplane contrast cineangiograms under control conditions and radionuclide angiograms under control conditions and during methoxamine or nitroprusside infusions with right atrial pacing. the patients with aortic regurgitation were classified into three groups: group i had normal emax and stress-shortening relations, group ii had abnormal emax but normal stress-shortening relations and group iii had abnormal emax and stress-shortening relations. the left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes showed a progressive increase and the ejection fraction showed a progressive decrease from group i to iii; these values differed from those in the control patients (p less than 0.001). in group i, there was a decrease in left ventricular volumes (p less than 0.05) but no significant change in ejection fraction (61 +/- 7% versus 63 +/- 4%) after aortic valve replacement. in contrast, in group ii, reduction in left ventricular volumes (p less than 0.01) was associated with an increase in ejection fraction from 50 +/- 8% to 64 +/- 11% (p less than 0.01). finally, in group iii, reduction in left ventricular volumes (p less than 0.05) was associated with a further decrement in ejection fraction from 35 +/- 13% to 30 +/- 13%. group i patients had compensated adequately for chronic volume overload. however, group ii had left ventricular dysfunction that was associated with an increase in the left ventricular volume/mass ratio compared with that in the control patients and group i (p less than 0.05 for both), suggesting inadequate hypertrophy and assumption of spherical geometry. finally, irreversible myocardial dysfunction had supervened in group iii. in conclusion, a combined analysis of left ventricular chamber performance using the time-varying elastance concept and myocardial performance using conventional circumferential stress-shortening relations provides complementary information that elucidates differential mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction and therefore predicts the functional response to aortic valve replacement.
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in combination with transurethral surgery for management of large bladder calculi and moderate outlet obstruction. in 5 men evaluated for symptoms of obstructive voiding flexible cystoscopy revealed large or multiple bladder calculi along with small to moderate prostatic enlargement. all patients had successful localization and fragmentation of calculi with the dornier hm3 lithotriptor. of these patients 4 underwent transurethral resection or incision of the prostate under the same epidural anesthesia for moderate prostatic obstruction without complication and 1 subsequently required suprapubic prostatectomy of a gland with a large middle lobe that made a transurethral operation difficult. extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy should be considered for the primary management of large or hard bladder calculi and it is of particular value in combination with a transurethral operation for patients with small to moderate prostatic obstruction.
exposure of the intracavernous carotid artery in aneurysm surgery. the pterional intradural approach was used in five cases of large and giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms and in two cases of intracavernous aneurysms that arose from the anterior siphon knee in the cavernous sinus (cs) and extended into the carotid cistern. in four cases of large carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms removal of the anterior clinoid process and the roof of the optic canal gave easy access to the pericarotid ring. the anteromedial part of the pericarotid ring was dissected to expose the extradural portion of the internal carotid artery (ica) proximal to the neck and to make enough room between the wall of the cs and the extradural portion of the ica, thus allowing easy clipping of the neck. in one case of a giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysm extending into the cs with an extradural origin of the ophthalmic artery and in two cases of an intracavernous aneurysm arising from the siphon knee, neck clipping was performed by opening the lateral wall and roof of the cs after removal of the optic strut. the opening of the lateral wall anterior to the 3rd nerve facilitated wide exposure of the anterior siphon knee. the horizontal portion of the intracavernous ica as well as the whole aspect of the aneurysm could be exposed as a result of the extended opening of the cavernous roof anterior to the posterior clinoid process. successful operative results were obtained in all seven patients. a visual field detect as an operative complication was noted in one patient. no disturbance of ocular movements was noted.
the role of duplex scanning in the selection of patients for transluminal angioplasty. as part of our initial evaluation to determine whether patients with lower extremity ischemia are candidates for intervention, arterial duplex examinations are performed in the noninvasive vascular laboratory. patients with isolated short stenoses on the duplex examination are referred for transluminal angioplasty. one hundred thirty-four arteriograms were performed for ischemic peripheral vascular disease in 122 patients between july 1987 and march 1990. one hundred ten (82%) of the arteriograms were preceded by a lower extremity arterial duplex evaluation. fifty cases (45%) were scheduled for transluminal angioplasty based on the findings of the duplex examination. transluminal angioplasty was performed in 47 of 50 cases (94%). no significant differences in age, sex, or diabetes were found between the patients who were referred for transluminal angioplasty and those who were not. these data demonstrate that duplex scanning of the lower extremities allows the detection of lesions that will be amenable to transluminal angioplasty. we think that duplex scanning should become the standard screening tool for detection of treatable lower extremity lesions.
exercise capability in heart failure: is cardiac output important after all? the exercise capability of 39 patients with severe chronic heart failure was assessed in several ways and compared with measurements of cardiac output. the relation between cardiac index and exercise tolerance measured on a treadmill was poor (r = 0.191, p = 0.245). however, exercise tolerance measured with a series of self-paced corridor walk tests showed moderate correlations with cardiac index (r = -0.404, p = 0.015 to r = -0.516, p = 0.001) and customary activity assessed by step counting correlated better with cardiac index (r = 0.537, p less than 0.001). cardiac output therefore seems to be a factor determining patients' exercise capability when they choose their own walking speed but not when they undergo formal treadmill tests in the laboratory.
transesophageal echocardiography in critically ill patients. the feasibility, safety and clinical impact of transesophageal echocardiography were evaluated in 51 critically ill intensive care unit patients (28 men and 23 women; mean age 63 years) in whom transthoracic echocardiography was inadequate. at the time of transesophageal echocardiography, 30 patients (59%) were being mechanically ventilated. transesophageal echocardiography was performed without significant complications in 49 patients (96%), and 2 patients with heart failure had worsening of hemodynamic and respiratory difficulties after insertion of the transesophageal probe. the most frequent indication, in 25 patients (49%), was unexplained hemodynamic instability. other indications included evaluation of mitral regurgitation severity, prosthetic valvular dysfunction, endocarditis, aortic dissection and potential donor heart. in 30 patients (59%), transesophageal echocardiography identified cardiovascular problems that could not be clearly diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography. in the remaining patients, transesophageal echocardiography permitted confident exclusion of suspected abnormalities because of its superior imaging qualities. cardiac surgery was prompted by transesophageal echocardiographic findings in 12 patients (24%) and these findings were confirmed at operation in all. therefore, transesophageal echocardiography can be safely performed and has a definite role in the diagnosis and expeditious management of critically ill cardiovascular patients.
a controlled trial of psychological treatment for the irritable bowel syndrome. one hundred two patients with irritable bowel syndrome were studied in a controlled trial of psychological treatment involving psychotherapy, relaxation, and standard medical treatment compared with standard medical treatment alone. patients were only selected if their symptoms had not improved with standard medical treatment over the previous 6 months. at 3 months, the treatment group showed significantly greater improvement than the controls on both gastroenterologists' and patients' ratings of diarrhea and abdominal pain, but constipation changed little. good prognostic factors included overt psychiatric symptoms and intermittent pain exacerbated by stress, whereas those with constant abdominal pain were helped little by this treatment. this study has demonstrated that psychological treatment is feasible and effective in two thirds of those patients with irritable bowel syndrome who do not respond to standard medical treatment.
neurologic complications of cardiac transplantation. between 1984 and 1989, orthotopic cardiac transplantations were done in 90 patients from 10 to 65 years of age for end-stage, refractory congestive cardiomyopathy. two patients had had ischemic strokes 5 months and 18 years, respectively, before transplantation. six patients (7%) suffered acute neurologic events perioperatively. three patients suffered cerebral infarctions. in 1 case this occurred 10 days before transplantation--probably as a result of systemic hypoperfusion--with the placement of ventricular assist devices. two others suffered infarctions 5 and 21 days, respectively, after transplantation, each of probable embolic origin. two patients had an acute intracerebral hemorrhage 21 and 36 days, respectively, after transplantation; both were located within the basal ganglia and subcortical regions. both patients had moderate to severe hypertension, and in 1, renal failure and a coagulopathy developed before hemorrhage. tremor, seizures, and an altered level of consciousness developed in 1 patient as an apparent toxic reaction to cyclosporine treatment. only 1 patient died as a result of the neurologic complication--of an acute intracerebral hemorrhage. three patients recovered fully, 2 partially. only the case of drug toxicity could be directly attributed to the transplantation procedure itself. we conclude that the risk of an acute neurologic insult with orthotopic cardiac transplantation is low but may result from drug toxicity, cerebral ischemia, or hemorrhagic mechanisms.
effect of severe pulmonary hypertension on the calculation of mitral valve area in patients with mitral stenosis. we studied 50 consecutive patients with mitral valve stenosis (ms) by cardiac catheterization and doppler echocardiography to assess whether the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension affected the calculation of valve area by doppler pressure half-time method and by the gorlin formula using pulmonary capillary wedge pressure as an index of left atrial pressure. patients with severe mitral regurgitation were excluded. in patients with pulmonary artery systolic pressure (pas) less than 70 mm hg (n = 33), there was good correlation between the mitral valve area derived from doppler echocardiography and from cardiac catheterization (r = 0.85). however, in patients with pas greater than or equal to 70 mm hg (n = 17), this correlation was not as good (r = 0.57). in these 17 patients, the gorlin formula tended to underestimate the valve orifice area (mean valve area 0.85 +/- 0.49 and 1.06 +/- 0.46 cm2 by catheterization and by doppler respectively, p = ns). direct measurement of the valve area by two-dimensional echocardiography was possible in 12 of the 17 patients and correlated well with doppler values (r = 0.91). hence in the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension, doppler pressure half-time estimation of mitral valve area is more accurate than is catheterization-derived valve area, using the wedge pressure and the gorlin formula.
nasal and oral flow-volume loops in normal subjects and patients with obstructive sleep apnea. because flow-volume loops (fvls) are clinically useful in evaluating upper airway (ua) obstruction and the fact that patency of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway is important to the prevention of obstructive sleep apnea (osa), the present study examined the role of nasal compared with oral fvls in evaluating patients with osa. fourteen obese male patients 56 +/- 3 yr of age with a mean apnea plus hypopnea index (ahi) of 51 +/- 9/h were studied along with 14 nonobese, healthy, age- and sex-matched control subjects whose mean ahi was 6 +/- 1/h. nasal and oral fvls obtained in the normal subjects indicated the nose behaved like a variable resistor, with flow limitation during inspiration but not during expiration. in the patient group, flow limitation was observed during expiration as well as inspiration indicating nondistensibility of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway in the patients compared to the control subjects. a change in body position from upright to supine in the osa group was associated with small reductions in expiratory but not inspiratory flow rates. the area under the nasal supine flow-volume loop (fvlanasup) was found to be highly correlated with awake resting pao2 (r = 0.80) and paco2 (r = -0.83) in the patient group. in addition, multiple linear regression analysis revealed that pao2 and the area under the nasal fvls independently contributed to the prediction of ahi with a multiple r of 0.89. these results suggest that limitations to ventilation via the nasopharynx may significantly influence both gas exchange and the frequency of sleep-disordered breathing in patients with osa.
bronchial mucus hypersecretion in acute quadriplegia. macromolecular yields and glycoconjugate composition. in acute quadriplegia we have noted that about one in five patients develops unexplained production of markedly excessive and tenacious bronchial mucus. spontaneous recovery from mucus hypersecretion usually occurs within weeks to months. mucus samples collected from 12 patients have been found to be abnormal. macromolecular contents of single aspirates yielded as much as 500 mg. analytical ultracentrifuge analysis showed the mucus to contain considerable epithelial glycoprotein (gp) of typical buoyant density; its amino acid and carbohydrate compositions were characteristic of the gp from hypersecretory bronchial mucus such as in chronic bronchitis and cystic fibrosis. in five patients studied after recovery from hypersecretion, there tended to be relatively less gp. the mucus samples contained a high density glycoconjugate (gc): this had sugars of gp but also reacted positively with a monoclonal antibody to keratan sulfate. its amino acid composition was different from that of gp: threonine was lower and glycine was higher than in gp. in mucus from one patient who died, chondroitin sulfate abc and hyaluronic acid were identified as well. this suggests proteoglycans are involved in the pathophysiology of mucus hypersecretion. the sudden onset and spontaneous recovery of hypersecretion suggests that it is not due to gland hypertrophy. we speculate that in acute quadriplegia it is due to disturbed neuronal control of bronchial mucus gland secretion, perhaps related to initial disappearance and later reappearance of peripheral sympathetic nervous system tone.
familial hemifacial spasm associated with arterial compression of the facial nerve. case report. this report of an 88-year-old woman with familial hemifacial spasm includes the first published postmortem description of hemifacial spasm with cross-compression of the seventh cranial nerve root exit zone by a redundant loop of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery and associated vascular plexus. histological examination of the seventh and eighth cranial nerve complex suggested nerve degeneration because increased numbers of corpora amylacea were present just distal to the compression concavity. there was no evidence of demyelination or gliosis of the nerve. this case suggests that vascular compression of the nerve root exit zone is an important condition in the etiology of most of these cases. this is the third reported case of familial hemifacial spasm; to date, all such patients have had left facial involvement. the family pedigree in this case suggests a pattern of autosomal-dominant inheritance with partial penetrance. the genetic basis for familial hemifacial spasm may involve anatomical variants or anomalies of the posterior circulation, since both posterior inferior cerebellar arteries were congenitally absent in this case.
upper gi bleeding in an urban hospital. etiology, recurrence, and prognosis. acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding (ugib) continues to be a common cause of hospital admission and morbidity and mortality. this study reviews 469 patients admitted to a surgical service of an urban hospital. there were 562 total admissions because 53 patients were readmitted 93 times (recurrence rate, 20%). the most common causes of bleeding, all endoscopically diagnosed, included acute gastric mucosal lesion (agml) (135 patients, 24%), esophageal varices (ev) (121 patients, 22%), gastric ulcer (108 patients, 19%), duodenal ulcer (78 patients, 14%), mallory-weiss tear (61 patients, 11%), and esophagitis (15 patients, 3%). nonoperative therapy was sufficient in 504 cases (89.5%). endoscopic treatment was used in 144 cases. operations were performed in 58 cases (10.5%), including 29% of ulcers. emergency operations to control hemorrhage were required in only 2.5% of all cases. the rate of major surgical complications was 11% and the mortality rate was 5.2%. there were 58 deaths (12.6%), with 36 deaths directly attributable to ugib. factors correlating with death include shock at admission (systolic blood pressure less than 80), transfusion requirement of more than five units, and presence of ev (all p less than 0.001). most cases of ugib can be treated without operation, including endoscopic treatment, when diagnostic endoscopy establishes the source. subsequent operation in selected patients can be done with low morbidity and mortality rates.
vascular responsiveness in obstructed gut. multiorgan system failure due to hypotension and sepsis is an important cause of death in patients with bowel obstruction. we have investigated the pathophysiology of this entity in an animal model. after 5 days of bowel obstruction, blood flow in the superior mesenteric artery was measured with and without pitressin and norepinephrine given in separate experiments. in controls, pitressin in moderate dosages caused a substantial fall in gut blood flow, which was not seen in obstructed animals (blood flow reduction 52 percent vs. 11 percent in sham and obstructed animals respectively, p less than 0.01). similarly, norepinephrine infusion had less of an effect on gut blood flow in obstructed animals (blood flow reduction 79 percent vs. 58 percent sham vs. obstructed animals (p less than 0.05). thus, both agents had dose-related effects on gut blood flow, which was maintained at a higher level throughout the drug infusion periods in the bowel of obstructed animals, demonstrating that splanchnic flow is less responsive to vasoactive drug infusion under these experimental conditions. because splanchnic vasoconstriction is an important feature of normal hemodynamic homeostasis, we suggest that these results may help explain some aspects of the pathophysiology of multiorgan failure caused or worsened by systemic hypotension seen in bowel obstruction.
systemic amyloidosis in transgenic mice carrying the human mutant transthyretin (met30) gene. pathologic similarity to human familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy, type i. to analyze the pathologic processes of amyloid deposition in type i familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (fap), mice were made transgenic by introducing the human mutant transthyretin (ttr) gene. in these transgenic mice, amyloid deposition started in the gastrointestinal tract, cardiovascular system, and kidneys 6 months after birth and extended to various other organs and tissues with advancing age. at age 24 months, the pattern of amyloid deposition was similar to that observed in human autopsy cases of fap, except for its absence in the choroid plexus and in the peripheral and autonomic nervous systems. amyloid deposition was shown to be composed of human mutant ttr and, in addition, mouse serum amyloid p component. these results clearly indicate that human variant ttr produced in transgenic mice deposits is a major component of amyloid fibrils in various organs and tissues. thus this animal model is useful for analyzing how amyloid deposition initiates and proceeds in fap.
value of combined assessment of physical health and functional status in community-dwelling aged: a prospective study in florence, italy. a survey of the health and social conditions of a representative sample of 967 persons aged 60 years and older from the city of florence, italy, was undertaken in 1980. in 1987, a follow-up survey of this cohort was performed. there were 391 documented deaths, 408 survivors, and 168 individuals who could not be located. functional ability at baseline was assessed using a world health organization 14-item scale. indicators of physical health status included chronic disease status, number of drugs, physician visits, and days of hospitalization. after adjustment for age and sex, both functional ability and indicators of physical health status were found to be independent, statistically significant predictors of mortality. the results of this study further support the view that biomedical and functional assessment are both necessary for a comprehensive evaluation of the older population.
calcium and calcium binding in human gallstone disease. precipitation of calcium salts from bile is important in pigment gallstone formation and may serve as a nidus for cholesterol precipitation. we compared gallbladder bile from patients with symptomatic gallstone disease (40 with cholesterol gallstones and 12 with pigment gallstones) with bile from 10 patients undergoing surgery for non-biliary tract disease. bile from patients with gallstone disease was less concentrated, with decreased sodium, bile salt, and phospholipid concentrations, but elevated biliary calcium concentrations were not observed. the relationship between free ionized calcium and total calcium was similar in all groups, indicating no difference in calcium binding by gallstone-containing bile. we cannot exclude elevated biliary calcium level as a factor in gallstone pathogenesis, as it could be a transient event. the importance of calcium precipitation was supported by our finding that more than half of the samples were saturated or supersaturated with at least one calcium salt, calcium carbonate.
a phase i trial of cisplatin in hypertonic saline and escalating doses of 5-fluorouracil by continuous intravenous infusion in patients with advanced malignancies. thirty-four patients with incurable solid tumors were treated in a phase i trial with a fixed dose of high-dose cisplatin (cddp) administered in hypertonic saline and escalating doses of infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-fu). five treatment levels of 5-fu, ranging from 500 to 900 mg/m2/day for 5 days, were studied. leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and oral mucositis were the dose-limiting toxicities encountered. nephrotoxicity was minimal. ototoxicity and peripheral neuropathies were rare and mild in this patient group, but most patients received only a small number of treatment cycles. diarrhea was not dose-limiting. two complete responses (one non-small cell lung cancer and one sweat gland carcinoma) were observed. no other major responses were noted. with the dose of cddp set at 35 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days, the maximum tolerated dose (mtd) of a concurrent 5-day 5-fu infusion was found to be 900 mg/m2/day. the recommended dosages for phase ii trials are 35 mg/m2/day cddp and 800 mg/m2/day 5-fu for 5 consecutive days. cancers of the lung, breast, gastrointestinal tract, and genitourinary tract would be reasonable targets for phase ii studies.
failure of hancock pericardial xenografts: is prophylactic bioprosthetic replacement justified? the incidence of major valve-related complications was evaluated in a series of patients in whom the hancock pericardial xenograft was used for aortic (avr; n = 84), mitral (mvr; n = 17) and mitral-aortic (mavr; n = 13) valve replacement. at 7 years actuarial survival is 66% +/- 8% after avr, 64% +/- 13% after mvr, and 41% +/- 15% after mavr, whereas actuarial freedom from valve-related death is 79% +/- 7% after avr, 78% +/- 13% after mvr, and 81% +/- 12% after mavr. actuarial freedom from thromboemboli and anticoagulant-related hemorrhage at 7 years is 93% +/- 4% and 98% +/- 2% after avr and 83% +/- 10% and 88% +/- 11% after mvr; no such complications occurred after mavr. structural valve deterioration determined at reoperation, at autopsy, or by clinical investigation was observed in 34 patients with avr (10.0 +/- 0.2%/patient-year), in 10 with mvr (10.6 +/- 3.3%/patient-year), and in 9 with mavr (16.6 +/- 5.5%/patient-year). after avr, 19 patients underwent reoperation and 2 died before reoperation; 4 patients with mvr underwent reoperation, and 7 patients with mavr underwent reoperation and 1 died before reoperation. seventy-eight percent of the current survivors (13 patients with avr, 7 with mvr, and 1 with mavr) have clinical evidence of valve failure. at 7 years actuarial freedom from structural deterioration of the hancock pericardial xenograft is 25% +/- 7% after avr, 29% +/- 14% after mvr, and 0% after mavr.
acellular matrix allograft small caliber vascular prostheses. we have developed an acellular matrix vascular prosthesis (amvp) made by detergent and enzymatic extraction of natural arteries, yielding a tissue framework of collagen and elastin from the original vessel, with preservation of the natural basement membrane at the blood flow surface. these biografts have excellent handling characteristics and suturability, as well as low thromboreactivity. whole vessel static testing of circumferential compliance (8.9 +/- 1 [sem] x 10(-2)% mmhg at 100 mmhg) revealed behavior virtually identical to the paired natural vessel from which each amvp was derived in nine canine carotid arteries. we implanted 16 canine-origin amvps into nine dogs (12 femoral and three carotid arteries, and one infrarenal aorta) with no antithrombotic drugs. angiographic patency was maintained in 15 of 16 (one occlusion within 3 days) for follow-up from 3 days to 6 years, with no aneurysm formation in three amvp at over 4 1/2 years. explant analysis revealed preservation of amvp elastica and collagen with no inflammation or dystropic calcification of the amvp, and almost total thrombus free flow surfaces. these results suggest that allograft amvps could achieve long-term patency equivalent to saphenous veins.
experience with cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest in the management of retroperitoneal tumors with large vena caval thrombi. from june 1984 to september 1989, 43 patients with large vena caval tumor thrombi from retroperitoneal malignancies underwent surgical treatment with cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (dhca). the primary malignancies were renal cell carcinoma (rcc) (n = 39), renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma (n = 1), adrenal pheochromocytoma (n = 1), and renal (n = 1) or retroperitoneal (n = 1) sarcoma. the level of the caval thrombus was either suprahepatic (n = 27), intrahepatic (n = 14), or subhepatic (n = 2). in all cases the primary tumor and caval thrombus were completely removed. concomitant procedures included coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 5), pulmonary resection (n = 2), and hepatic lobectomy (n = 1). the time of circulatory arrest ranged from 10 to 44 minutes (mean, 23.5 minutes). there were two operative deaths (4.7%), neither of them due to to the use of dhca. major postoperative complications occurred in 13 patients (30.2%). there were no ischemic or neurologic complications and no cases of perioperative tumor embolization. the median postoperative hospital stay was 9 days. twenty-two patients (51%) are alive and enjoying a good quality of life. the 3-year patient survival rates in patients with localized (n = 24) versus metastatic (n = 15) rcc are 63.9% and 10.9%, respectively (p = 0.02). we conclude that cpb with dhca facilities excision of retroperitoneal malignancies with large caval thrombi and provides the potential for cure with low morbidity and mortality rates.
paediatric urolithiasis in greece. a group of 44 patients, aged from 10 months to 14 years, underwent surgery for urinary calculi over a 7-year period (1982-1989). eleven patients had bilateral or multiple calculi (total number of stones = 55, 20 of which were staghorn). metabolic disorders (n = 25) and proteus urinary infection (n = 15) were the 2 factors most often associated with lithiasis. of the 55 stones, 51 were removed by open surgery. complete stone clearance was achieved in 29 of 36 kidneys. follow-up periods in the remaining 7 renal units (with small residual fragments) ranged from 3.5 to 7.5 years (mean 6.2) and revealed stone recurrence in only 2 patients. evaluation of childhood urolithiasis should include thorough metabolic investigation and sound surgical judgment; effective management requires prolonged post-operative follow-up.
chemical carcinogenesis: too many rodent carcinogens. the administration of chemicals at the maximum tolerated dose (mtd) in standard animal cancer tests is postulated to increase cell division (mitogenesis), which in turn increases rates of mutagenesis and thus carcinogenesis. the animal data are consistent with this mechanism, because a high proportion--about half--of all chemicals tested (whether natural or synthetic) are indeed rodent carcinogens. we conclude that at the low doses of most human exposures, where cell killing does not occur, the hazards to humans of rodent carcinogens may be much lower than is commonly assumed.
baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity is potentiated at early phase of two-kidney, one-clip goldblatt hypertension in conscious rabbits. conscious normotensive and two-kidney, one-clip goldblatt hypertensive rabbits were studied to determine the sensitivity of the arterial baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity (rsna) and heart rate. the relations of the mean arterial pressure-rsna and mean arterial pressure-heart rate were examined over a wide range of blood pressures produced by infusions of phenylephrine and nitroglycerin. the maximum slope obtained by logistic function analysis was considered to represent the baroreflex sensitivity. in the early hypertensive group (n = 8; mean arterial pressure +/- sem, 88 +/- 2 mm hg) on day 5 after renal clip application, the maximum slope of the mean arterial pressure-rsna relation was -11.3 +/- 1.2, which was significantly greater than that of the sham normotensive group (-6.9 +/- 0.3, p less than 0.05). the maximum slope (-4.3 +/- 0.2) of the mean arterial pressure-rsna relation in the late hypertensive group (n = 8; mean arterial pressure, 96 +/- 3 mm hg) on day 21 after renal clipping was significantly smaller than that of another sham group (-7.2 +/- 0.2, p less than 0.05). in contrast to these changes in the baroreflex control of rsna, the control of heart rate was attenuated according to the magnitude of mean arterial pressure. to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the potentiated baroreflex, the effects of endogenous neuropeptides were investigated. first, plasma concentrations of angiotensin ii and arginine vasopressin that are known to affect the baroreflex were determined. plasma concentrations of vasopressin (3.1 +/- 0.6 pg/ml) as well as of angiotensin ii (34 +/- 7 pg/ml) were increased in the early hypertensive group, and the plasma vasopressin returned to a similar level to the sham group in the late hypertensive group (1.3 +/- 0.4 pg/ml). second, to study endogenous effects of these neuropeptides on the baroreflex, the maximum slopes of the baroreflex curves during infusions of antagonists for the peptides were determined in the early hypertensive group. the maximum slope of mean arterial pressure-rsna during intravertebral arterial [sar1, ala8]-angiotensin ii (-16.4 +/- 1.5) was significantly greater (p less than 0.05), whereas the maximum slope during intravertebral arterial infusion of d(ch2)5tyr(me)arginine vasopressin (-4.7 +/- 0.5) was significantly smaller (p less than 0.05) than that during vehicle infusion (-11.3 +/- 1.2).(abstract truncated at 400 words).
converting enzyme inhibitors and renal function in essential and renovascular hypertension. converting enzyme inhibitors (cei) are useful in the treatment of hypertension. however, acute renal deterioration may occur in some conditions in association with the crucial role of angiotensin in the regulation of glomerular filtration rate (gfr), such as volume depletion, severe stenosis of both renal arteries, and stenosis of a single functioning kidney. cei-induced acute renal failure can develop in the absence of a fall in systemic pressure, is facilitated by prior sodium depletion, and is reversible upon discontinuation of treatment. in a personal study conducted in 28 patients with cei-induced renal dysfunction (reversible after discontinuation of cei), the incidence of stenosis of large renal vessels was 61%, whereas 39% of these subjects had no significant renal artery abnormalities. although the occurrence of such a complication is not a convincingly accurate predictor of the existence of renovascular hypertension, angiographic detection of renal artery stenosis (bilateral or on a single-functioning kidney) may be justified in some of these patients.
postauricular cerebellar encephalocoele secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery. cerebellar herniation into the mastoid through the posterior aspect of the temporal bone as a result of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery is a rare event. a case is reported in which such a hernia presented subcutaneously behind the pinna; its repair is discussed.
optimal interpretation of the supine exercise electrocardiogram in patients with right bundle branch block. a detailed analysis of the exercise ecg was performed in 82 patients with right bundle branch block who underwent supine exercise equilibrium radionuclide angiography. the sensitivity and specificity of each individual electrocardiographic lead for the detection of a positive radionuclide angiogram was determined. leads v5 and v6 had a sensitivity of 58 percent and a specificity of 89 percent. the limb leads and lead v4 had a lower sensitivity, but an equivalent specificity. leads v1 and v3 each had a clearly lower specificity that ranged from 56 to 67 percent. receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that the optimal interpretation of the exercise ecg included the limb leads and v4 to v6, but not v1 to v3. the results of coronary angiography in the subset of 16 patients who underwent this procedure confirmed these findings.
ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer. a population-based study. background. the risk of colorectal cancer is increased among patients with ulcerative colitis. the magnitude of this increase in risk and the effects of the length of follow-up, the extent of disease at diagnosis, and age at diagnosis vary substantially in different studies. methods. to provide accurate estimates of the risk of colorectal cancer among patients with ulcerative colitis, we studied a population-based cohort of 3117 patients given a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis from 1922 through 1983 who were followed up through 1984. results. ninety-two cases of colorectal cancer occurred in 91 patients. as compared with the expected incidence, the incidence of colorectal cancer in the cohort was increased (standardized incidence ratio [ratio of observed to expected cases] = 5.7; 95 percent confidence interval, 4.6 to 7.0). less extensive disease at diagnosis was associated with a lower risk; for patients with ulcerative proctitis, the standardized incidence ratio was 1.7 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.8 to 3.2); for those with left-sided colitis, 2.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 4.4); and for those with pancolitis (extensive colitis, or inflammation of the entire colon), 14.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 11.4 to 18.9). age at diagnosis and the extent of disease at diagnosis were strong and independent risk factors for colorectal cancer. for each increase in age group at diagnosis (less than 15 years, 15 to 29 years, 30 to 39 years, 40 to 49 years, 50 to 59 years, and greater than or equal to 60 years), the relative risk of colorectal cancer, adjusted for the extent of disease at diagnosis, decreased by about half (adjusted standardized incidence ratio = 0.51; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.46 to 0.56). the absolute risk of colorectal cancer 35 years after diagnosis was 30 percent for patients with pancolitis at diagnosis and 40 percent for those given this diagnosis at less than 15 years of age. conclusions. close surveillance and perhaps even prophylactic proctocolectomy should be recommended for patients given a diagnosis of pancolitis, especially those who are less than 15 years of age at diagnosis.
ultrasound in the investigation of the right iliac fossa mass. patients presenting with a right iliac fossa (rif) mass are a diagnostic problem. the objective of this study was to assess the role of ultrasound (us) in their investigation. a prospective series of 50 patients presenting with a clinically suspected rif mass was examined by us and the finding correlated with the final diagnosis. there was a positive finding in 34 patients (68%). ultrasound correctly identified the organ of origin in 33 (97%) and was able to guide the patients' further management. in 12 cases no abnormality was found in the rif, of which 11 had no positive findings at follow-up and one was shown to have an unrelated abnormality at laparotomy. in four cases the findings were due to normal variants. ultrasound is the imaging modality of first choice in patients presenting with a rif mass.
anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer. in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial, anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy (ampt, n = 77) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty (tvp, n = 69) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years. the mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years. one elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the tvp group. acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups, indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation. recurrent ulcers were more common after ampt (five) than tvp (two) (p = 0.29, n.s.). dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner (p less than 0.001) after tvp, with 31 instances as opposed to eight with ampt. the mean operating time was increased by 6 min when ampt was performed rather than tvp. the results of this study have shown that ampt is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall visick grading. however, continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure.
thirty-six month follow-up of a contemporary phakic intraocular lens for the surgical correction of myopia. twenty-three eyes underwent implantation of a glass anterior chamber phakic myopic intraocular lens by one of the surgeon co-authors. the follow-up was 18 to 36 months. all refractions were unchanged and stable within six weeks after surgery. best-corrected visual acuity was achieved in all cases; in 56% of operated eyes, a one-to-three line visual improvement was noted over the preoperative status. no operative complications were encountered; no postoperative complications were noted in either the immediate or delayed phase. no intraocular lenses were removed. there was a 5.3% loss in endothelial cell count which was unchanged throughout the study. the contemporary phakic myopic intraocular lens offers a seminal approach to the surgical treatment of myopia.
carotid endarterectomy: a ten-year analysis of outcome and cost of treatment. between 1978 and 1988, 215 patients with an average age of 67 years, underwent 246 carotid endarterectomies. two hundred ten (85.4%) patients were symptomatic, and 36 (14.6%) were asymptomatic. six patients (2.4%) had a postoperative stroke, and all had immediate reoperation. one of these patients died (30 day mortality rate, 0.4% for the series), and two (0.8%) recovered completely, whereas three (1.2%) had a mild permanent neurologic deficit. two patients (0.8%) had nonfatal myocardial infarction. mean follow-up of 42.2 months (range, 1 to 126 months) was achieved. at 5 and 8 years actuarial survival rates of 82% and 66% and stroke-free survival rates of 67% and 37% were observed. actuarial stroke free rates of 90% at 5 and 8 years were noted. by introducing and observing guidelines that required preoperative study of most clearly defined classes of patients before admission for surgical treatment, the average length of stay for carotid endarterectomy was lowered from 9.5 days in the first 5 years of the study to 5.8 days in the second 5 years (p = 0.001). average hospital charges, expressed in constant dollars, decreased from $3113 in the first 5 years to $2620 in the second 5 years (p = 0.02) despite an 88% inflationary increase in medical consumer price index. this experience shows that the length of hospitalization of patients with carotid endarterectomy can be reduced and the cost of admission lowered without untoward effect on perioperative morbidity and mortality rates.
monoclonal antibody b72.3 in benign breast lesions. it has been suggested that the monoclonal antibody b72.3 may be useful as a diagnostic tool in fine needle aspirates of breast masses because it recognises "tumour associated glycoprotein (tag)-72". the antigen was sought in paraffin wax sections of 43 normal and benign breast biopsy specimens, using the avidin-biotin complex technique, to assess the extent of its presence in non-malignant tissue. strong focal staining was seen in 21 (49%) cases. in 29 cases of fibrocystic change staining was present in 17 (59%). all areas of apocrine metaplasia were positive, as well as a few normal ducts and acini and occasional areas of adenosis. focal positivity was present in five out of 12 foci of ductal epithelial hyperplasia and in three out of seven radial scars. staining was absent in two areas of lobular hyperplasia, three areas of sclerosing adenosis, and in a focus of lactational change. focal positivity was also seen in two out of five fibroadenomas and in two out of three intraduct papillomas. five normal subareolar sections and a section of normal lactating breast were negative. it is concluded that b72.3 monoclonal antibody can show focal reactivity with a variety of normal and benign epithelial mammary structures, and it is doubtful that its use would be of any help in differentiating benign from malignant cells in fine needle aspirates.
usefulness of fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration as early indicator of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence in crohn's disease. the aim of this study was to evaluate in crohn's disease the possible usefulness of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration in the early detection of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence. eleven adult patients with small bowel crohn's disease undergoing elective resection were enrolled in the study and prospectively followed for one year. three, six, and 12 months after surgery the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were measured, and the disease activity was assessed. all patients were free of active symptoms throughout the study. one year after surgery small bowel radiology was performed in all patients. radiographic evidence of recurrent macroscopic disease was found in five of the 11 patients. three months after surgery both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were significantly lower (p less than 0.01) than before surgery. there was no difference at this time between patients with recurrence and those with no recurrence. in patients with recurrence both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration significantly increased at six months in comparison with the values at three months (p less than 0.02). both measurements were significantly higher at six and 12 months in this group of patients than in those with no recurrence and in normal controls (p less than 0.01). at six and 12 months alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was above the upper normal limit in all patients with recurrence. we conclude that fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance is a noninvasive, inexpensive, sensitive marker of asymptomatic recurrence in cd patients who are under regular supervision after surgery.
parotid gland plasmacytoma with crystalline deposits. a case of primary extramedullary plasmacytoma of the parotid gland with a marked deposition of intracytoplasmic crystals is presented. the immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characteristics of the crystals suggest formation from monoclonal immunoglobulin.
penetration of lanthanum through the main pancreatic duct epithelium in cats following exposure to infected human bile. the main pancreatic duct epithelium acts as a barrier to the diffusion of molecules from the duct lumen into pancreatic acinar and interstitial tissue. we studied sequential ultrastructural characteristics of the loss of epithelial barrier function in the cat using lanthanum, an electron-opaque tracer, following perfusion of the duct from the tail to the duodenum with infected human bile. tight junctions between duct epithelial cells were found to become permeable to the tracer as early as after 15 min of exposure. later, there was progressive disintegration of intercellular junctions and epithelial loss. lanthanum penetrated the duct epithelium exclusively on an intercellular path. loss of barrier function of the pancreatic duct epithelium was consistently associated with subsequent development of acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis. there was no association between the degree of duct epithelial damage and the severity of acute pancreatitis. both bile and a suspension of bacteria alone were not harmful to the pancreas. sequential perfusion produced acute pancreatitis only when at first bile and then the bacterial suspension was perfused. a reversed succession of perfusates produced no morphologic alterations. we conclude: (1) increased tight junction permeability is an early lesion in acute bile-induced pancreatitis: (2) loss of duct epithelial barrier function is important for the initiation but not for the severity of the inflammation; and (3) bile renders duct epithelial intercellular junctions vulnerable to escherichia coli bacteria.
increased extravascular lung water in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure after acute myocardial infarction. objective: to evaluate the clinical characteristics of increased extravascular lung water (evlw) in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (paop) in the early phase of acute myocardial infarction. design: consecutive sample for descriptions of the clinical features of medical disorders. setting: a general medicine group practice in a university hospital. patients: sixteen patients with low paop (less than 18 mm hg) on the initial measurement obtained within 12 hr of chest pain onset. measurements and main results: evlw was measured by the thermal indocyanine green dye double-indicator dilution method. qrs score was obtained on hospital day 7 from the selvester's qrs scoring system. eleven (69%) patients had increased evlw greater than 7 ml/kg despite low paop. evlw had no significant correlation with paop and the difference between plasma colloid osmotic pressure and paop, but did have a significant correlation with pulmonary vascular resistance index (r2 = .31, p less than .05), and qrs score (r2 = .45, p less than .005). conclusions: larger infarcts led to increased evlw even with low paop, and the accumulation of increased evlw around the small arterioles might have led to increased pulmonary vascular resistance.
clinical antecedents to in-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest. while the outcome of in-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest has been studied extensively, the clinical antecedents of arrest are less well defined. we studied a group of consecutive general hospital ward patients developing cardiopulmonary arrest. prospectively determined definitions of underlying pathophysiology, severity of underlying disease, patient complaints, and clinical observations were used to determine common clinical features. sixty-four patients arrested 161 +/- 26 hours following hospital admission. pathophysiologic alterations preceding arrest were classified as respiratory in 24 patients (38 percent), metabolic in 7 (11 percent), cardiac in 6 (9 percent), neurologic in 4 (6 percent), multiple in 17 (27 percent), and unclassified in 6 (9 percent). patients with multiple disturbances had mainly respiratory (39 percent) and metabolic (44 percent) disorders. fifty-four patients (84 percent) had documented observations of clinical deterioration or new complaints within eight hours of arrest. seventy percent of all patients had either deterioration of respiratory or mental function observed during this time. routine laboratory tests obtained before arrest showed no consistent abnormalities, but vital signs showed a mean respiratory rate of 29 +/- 1 breaths per minute. the prognoses of patients' underlying diseases were classified as ultimately fatal in 26 (41 percent), nonfatal in 23 (36 percent), and rapidly fatal in 15 (23 percent). five patients (8 percent) survived to hospital discharge. patients developing arrest on the general hospital ward services have predominantly respiratory and metabolic derangements immediately preceding their arrests. their underlying diseases are generally not rapidly fatal. arrest is frequently preceded by a clinical deterioration involving either respiratory or mental function. these features and the high mortality associated with arrest suggest that efforts to predict and prevent arrest might prove beneficial.
frequency of success and complications of coronary angioplasty of a stenosis at the ostium of a branch vessel. the authors of this study hypothesized that percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a stenosis at the ostium of a branch vessel, whether isolated or associated with a bifurcation stenosis, was associated with reduced procedural success and increased in-hospital complications. one hundred six patients with 119 ostial branch stenoses were compared with 1,168 patients who underwent angioplasty of nonostial branch stenoses. an ostial branch stenosis was defined as a stenosis in the proximal 3 mm of a major branch vessel (diagonal [n = 58], posterior descending [n = 21], obtuse marginal [n = 34] and intermediate [n = 6]). the ostial branch stenosis was isolated in 61% of the patients and associated with a bifurcation stenosis in 39%. despite a balloon to artery ratio of 1.05:1, angiographic success was 74% of ostial branch stenoses versus 91% of nonostial stenoses (p less than 0.01). furthermore, angioplasty of ostial branch stenoses resulted in a complication rate of 13 versus 5% for angioplasty of nonostial branch stenoses (p less than 0.01). therefore, angioplasty of ostial branch stenoses results in decreased procedural success and significant residual stenosis despite adequate balloon sizing, suggesting arterial elastic recoil and a significant increase in complications.
reproductive experience after complete and partial molar pregnancy and gestational trophoblastic tumors. we reviewed the subsequent pregnancy experience in patients with complete and partial mole and gestational trophoblastic tumors who were managed at the new england trophoblastic disease center between june 1965 and december 1989. such patients should be reassured that they can anticipate a normal reproductive outcome in the future.
new directions in medical imaging of cancer. magnetic resonance methods and single photon emission computed tomography. magnetic resonance methods and single photon emission computed tomography (spect) are developing technologies that provide both functional and anatomic information. their role in the diagnosis and monitoring of cancer is the subject of current clinical research. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) delineates organs and tissue heterogeneities using differences in the relaxation parameters of water and fat protons; both protons and other nuclei can be imaged or studied by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (mrs) to provide information on the state of naturally occurring or infused molecules. spect quantifies the distribution of radiolabeled agents in tissues and organs; labeled monoclonal antibodies provide highly specific imaging of tumors. spatial resolution is the limiting technologic factor. proton mri provides the highest current resolution, better than 1 mm in vivo in deep tissues, whereas the resolution of mrs and spect is limited to several cubic centimeters. recent advances in these technologies have significantly increased their specificity and ability to detect small, deep lesions.
ocular defects in infants of extremely low birth weight and low gestational age. the eyes of 49 babies who weighed less than 1,000 g at birth or who were born at or before 28 weeks gestation were examined at the age of 4 years. twenty-one children were normal. the remaining 29 children (59%) had ocular abnormalities which ranged from mild amblyopia to blindness from retinopathy of prematurity. the need to examine children at risk is stressed.
structure and distribution of an alu-type deletion mutation in sandhoff disease. sandhoff disease is a recessively inherited lysosomal storage disease resulting from a deficiency of beta-hexosaminidase activity. the enzyme occurs in two major forms, beta-hexosaminidase a, composed of an alpha- and beta-subunit and beta-hexosaminidase b, composed of two beta-subunits. both isozyme activities are deficient in sandhoff disease, owing to mutations of the hexb gene encoding the common beta-subunit. we have cloned and fully characterized a deletion at the hexb gene from fibroblasts of a patient with the infantile form of sandhoff disease. the deletion removes approximately 16 kb of dna including the hexb promoter, exons 1-5 and part of intron 5. it most likely arose from recombination between two alu sequences, with the breakpoints occurring at the midpoint between the left and right arms in each case and regenerating an intact alu element in the deletion sequence. the deletion allele accounts for 27% of the sandhoff mutant alleles we analyzed. two cell lines were shown to be homozygous for the deletion and both had the infantile form of the disease. four additional patients were compound heterozygotes with other mutations, all of whom displayed a different clinical phenotype. finally, the mutant allele was present in different ethnic backgrounds, suggesting that it may have been subject to genetic drift.
coronary vasodilation is impaired in both hypertrophied and nonhypertrophied myocardium of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a study with nitrogen-13 ammonia and positron emission tomography. to assess regional coronary reserve in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, regional myocardial blood flow was measured in 23 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 12 control subjects by means of nitrogen-13 ammonia and dynamic positron emission tomography. in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at baseline study, regional myocardial blood flow was 1.14 +/- 0.43 ml/min per g in the hypertrophied (20 +/- 3 mm) interventricular septum and 0.90 +/- 0.35 ml/min per g (p less than 0.05 versus septal flow) in the nonhypertrophied (10 +/- 2 mm) left ventricular free wall. these were not statistically different from the corresponding values in control subjects (1.04 +/- 0.25 and 0.91 +/- 0.21 ml/min per g, respectively, p = ns). after pharmacologically induced coronary vasodilation (dipyridamole, 0.56 mg/kg intravenously over 4 min), regional myocardial blood flow in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy increased significantly less than in control subjects both in the septum (1.63 +/- 0.58 versus 2.99 +/- 1.06 ml/min per g, p less than 0.001) and in the free wall (1.47 +/- 0.58 versus 2.44 +/- 0.82 ml/min per g, p less than 0.001). in addition, patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who had a history of chest pain had more pronounced impairment of coronary vasodilator reserve than did those without a history of chest pain. after dipyridamole, coronary resistance in the septum decreased by 38% in patients without a history of chest pain, but decreased by only 14% in those with such a history (p less than 0.05). coronary resistance in the free wall decreased by 45% in patients without and by 27% in those with a history of chest pain (p = 0.06).
background review and current concepts of reperfusion injury. we define the concept of reperfusion injury, and we present a background chronology of experimental work supporting and questioning this concept. we identify several new influences, such as current clinical interest in thrombolytic therapy for acute ischemia of heart and brain and the growing recognition of endothelium as a regulator of homeostasis. we propose that these influences will encourage a reexamination of reperfusion injury as a factor in the ultimate outcome of tissue exposed to reversible ischemia. we briefly discuss the major mechanisms presently implicated in reperfusion injury--loss of calcium homeostasis, free radical generation, leukocyte-mediated injury, and acute hypercholesterolemia.
comparative in vitro activities of newer quinolones against pseudomonas species and xanthomonas maltophilia isolated from patients with cancer. the in vitro susceptibilities of three pseudomonas species (pseudomonas aeruginosa, pseudomonas putida, and pseudomonas fluorescens) and xanthomonas maltophilia to quinolone antimicrobial agents were determined. several newer agents, particularly pd117558, pd117596, pd127391, sparfloxacin (at-4140), a-56620, and temafloxacin, were active against pseudomonas species. x. maltophilia isolates were generally less susceptible than were pseudomonas isolates but were inhibited by some of the newer quinolones.
long-term results after atrial correction of complete transposition of the great arteries. this study presents the late results for the first 104 consecutive patients surviving and atrial repair for transposition of the great arteries (tga) between january 1971 and december 1978 (group 1). mean follow-up was 12 years (range, 0.1 to 17.7 years). the actuarial survival rate at 18 years was 84.2% (70% confidence limits, 79% to 88%) for simple tga and 93.7% (70% confidence limits, 84% to 97%) for complex tga. nine of the 11 deaths were sudden. two (2.6%) of the 78 late survivors operated on for simple tga are in new york heart association functional class iii or iv versus 4 (26.7%) of the 15 survivors with complex tga; the other patients are doing very well. to better assess long-term results, we report the findings for randomly obtained electrocardiograms, holter monitor recordings, radionuclide angiographic studies, and cardiac catheterizations performed in 1987 in a larger group of 159 long-term survivors of atrial repair operated on at ospedale riuniti di bergamo from january 1971 to december 1984 (group 2), which includes all of group 1. the findings confirm that the arterial switch repair is the procedure of choice for complex tga and that there is a major incidence (approximately 10%) of systemic right ventricular dysfunction and rhythm disturbances after the atrial repair. on the other hand, our late survival rate at 18 years of 84% for simple tga with 97.5% of the patients in functional class i is a result that should be kept in mind, especially in institutions where the arterial switch is a relatively new approach and presumably is a higher risk to cause early death.
prognostic value of immunocytologic detection of bone marrow metastases in neuroblastoma. background. morphologic evaluation of bone marrow for neuroblastoma cells is a routine and important component of clinical staging. specific immunostaining of malignant cells with monoclonal antibodies should be more sensitive, however, and may improve the detection of metastases and provide additional prognostic information. methods. we looked for tumor cells in bone marrow from 197 patients with newly diagnosed neuroblastoma, using immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies (immunocytologic analysis) and examination of smears and specimens obtained by trephine biopsy (conventional analysis). results. routine smears and trephine-biopsy specimens were positive for tumor cells in 46 percent of the patients, whereas 67 percent were positive on immunocytologic analysis (p less than 0.0001). immunocytologic analysis detected bone marrow metastases in 34 percent of patients considered to have only localized or regional disease (stage i, ii, or iii). it also identified tumor cells that were not detected by conventional analysis in patients with widespread disease (stage iv or ivs). tumor content, as determined by immunocytologic analysis, predicted clinical outcome in relation to the age of the patient at diagnosis. patients with stage ii or iii disease diagnosed after one year of age who did not have occult marrow metastases did well, whereas those with metastases did poorly (p = 0.006). patients in whom stage iv disease was diagnosed before they were one year of age did well if bone marrow metastases were few or absent, but had poor survival if the marrow contained more than 0.02 percent tumor cells (p = 0.03). conclusions. immunocytologic analysis of bone marrow aspirates is more sensitive than conventional analysis in detecting tumor cells and provides prognostic information. the relations among marrow metastases, age at diagnosis, and clinical outcome illustrate the biologic heterogeneity of neuroblastoma.
postmortem chorionic villus sampling is a better method for cytogenetic evaluation of early fetal loss than culture of abortus material. in utero chorionic villus sampling at the time of diagnosis of intrauterine fetal death is compared with more traditional use of cultured fetal skin, products of conception, or amniocentesis. a total of 102 specimens from early fetal losses were evaluated for success in karyotyping and chromosomal results. we found postmortem chorionic villus sampling is technically possible, offers the highest likelihood of getting a cytogenetic result, and is a rapid, reliable, and safe technique. the extraembryonic component of intrauterine fetal deaths appears to remain viable and continues to grow long after the embryo has died. samples obtained at the time of diagnosis of fetal death offer the greatest changes of successfully obtaining a karyotype. the incidence of chromosome abnormalities associated with fetal loss, particularly trisomies, is higher than previous data suggested.
combined vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a vaginal foreign body. a case is presented of vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a neglected vaginal foreign body. the patient complained of a foul-smelling vaginal discharge and was found to have a 4-cm hard vaginal mass on examination. urinary incontinence developed subsequently. examination under anesthesia was performed, and an aerosol deodorant cap was operatively removed from her posterior vagina/perirectal space. subsequent work-up demonstrated the presence of both a vesicovaginal fistula and a right ureterovaginal fistula. the patient underwent a combined vaginal repair of the vesicovaginal fistula and abdominal ureteroneocystostomy. the frequency, types, etiology, and treatment of genitourinary fistulas are reviewed with particular attention to those associated with a vaginal foreign body.
critical aortic stenosis in early infancy. anatomic and echocardiographic substrates of successful open valvotomy. to establish noninvasive criteria by which to manage infants with critical aortic stenosis, we examined 20 heart specimens from infants under 3 months of age and reviewed the clinical course and real time echocardiograms of 20 patients in the same age group. all 20 infants underwent open valvotomy, and in five cases both echocardiographic and postmortem measurements were available for the same heart. the anatomic specimens showed a spectrum of valvular, ventricular, and vascular abnormalities that could be accurately identified by echocardiography. a small left ventricular cavity was usually associated with a narrow ventriculoarterial junction, small ascending aorta, and narrow subaortic region. in these hearts, the mitral valve had a single or grossly hypoplastic papillary muscle with short or "arcuate" tendinous cords. a dilated left ventricular cavity had wider inflow and outflow orifices, and the tension apparatus of the mitral valve was either normal or supported by hypertrophic papillary muscles, at the other end of the spectrum. the survivors (n = 15) and nonsurvivors (n = 5) of open valvotomy showed significant differences in the echocardiographic dimensions of the left ventricle (p less than 0.005), the subaortic region (p less than 0.05), the ventriculoaortic junction (p less than 0.05), the ascending aorta (p less than 0.005), and the mitral valve orifice (p less than 0.001). moreover, the papillary muscle of the mitral valve was invariably single or hypoplastic with short tendinous cords in the early nonsurvivors. infants with unfavorable cardiac anatomy tended to present earlier (p less than 0.05) and to have a lower systemic blood pressure (p less than 0.05), and they required prostaglandin e2 to maintain right ventricular support of the circulation through a persistent arterial duct. this study suggests that patients with a small left ventricle (echocardiographic inflow dimension less than 25 mm), a narrow ventriculoaortic junction (less than 5 mm), and a small mitral valve orifice (less than 9 mm) will not achieve a satisfactory surgical result from aortic valvotomy. such patients should be considered for cardiac transplantation or the norwood-type of palliation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome.
mild hypothermic cardiopulmonary resuscitation improves outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs background and methods: this study was designed to explore the effect of mild cerebral and systemic hypothermia (34 degrees c) on outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs. after ventricular fibrillation with no flow of 10 min, and standard external cpr with epinephrine (low flow) from ventricular fibrillation time of 10 to 15 min, defibrillation and restoration of spontaneous normotension were between ventricular fibrillation time of 16 and 20 min. this procedure was followed by controlled ventilation to 20 hr postarrest and intensive care to 72 hr postarrest. in control group 1 (n = 10), core temperature was 37.5 degrees c; in control group 2 (n = 10), cooling was started immediately after restoration of spontaneous normotension; and in group 3 (n = 10), cooling was initiated with start of cpr. cooling was by clinically feasible methods. results: best overall performance categories achieved (1 = normal; 5 = brain death) were better in group 2 (p = .012) and group 3 (p = .005) than in group 1. best neurologic deficit scores were 36 +/- 14% in group 1, 22 +/- 15% in group 2 (p = .02), and 19 +/- 18% in group 3 (p = .01). brain histopathologic damage scores were also lower (better) in groups 2 (p = .05) and 3 (p = .03). myocardial damage was the same in all three groups. conclusion: mild cerebral hypothermia started during or immediately after external cpr improves neurologic recovery.
fatal pulmonary embolism caused by streptokinase treatment of deep venous thrombosis of the leg? during the last 10 years, four of 150 (2.7%) patients with deep venous thrombosis (dvt) treated with streptokinase (sk) at our department have died of pulmonary embolism (pe). a retrospective study of 1393 dvt patients treated with heparin during the period 1973-1986 showed that five (0.36%) of these patients died of pe while still on heparin. in this paper we describe the four patients treated with sk who developed fatal pe. in our opinion this increase in mortality does not warrant the use of sk in routine treatment of dvt of the leg before a proper trial has been conducted to compare the frequencies of pulmonary embolism after both treatments.
stressful events and life satisfaction among elderly men and women. the purpose of this study was to examine the interrelationships among stressful events, domain-specific assessments of life satisfaction, and global evaluations of life satisfaction. this research was guided by two competing theoretical formulations. according to bottom-up theory, older adults first assess feelings of satisfaction within specific life domains that are based in part on the experiences (i.e., stressors) they encounter in these areas. the domain-specific views are subsequently synthesized to form an overall sense of satisfaction with life as a whole. in contrast, the top-down theory suggests that a person's ongoing sense of satisfaction with life as a whole predisposes him or her to assess satisfaction with specific domains in ways that are congruent with his or her initial sense of global life satisfaction. analysis of data provided by older participants in a nationwide survey tends to support the bottom-up perspective.
vitamin c and cancer prevention: the epidemiologic evidence. epidemiologic evidence of a protective effect of vitamin c for non-hormone-dependent cancers is strong. of the 46 such studies in which a dietary vitamin c index was calculated, 33 found statistically significant protection, with high intake conferring approximately a twofold protective effect compared with low intake. of 29 additional studies that assessed fruit intake, 21 found significant protection. for cancers of the esophagus, larynx, oral cavity, and pancreas, evidence for a protective effect of vitamin c or some component in fruit is strong and consistent. for cancers of the stomach, rectum, breast, and cervix there is also strong evidence. several recent lung cancer studies found significant protective effects of vitamin c or of foods that are better sources of vitamin c than of beta-carotene. it is likely that ascorbic acid, carotenoids, and other factors in fruits and vegetables act jointly. increased consumption of fruits and vegetables in general should be encouraged.
characterization of spontaneous termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with coronary artery disease. to characterize the change in cycle length and qrs morphology before spontaneous termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt), electrocardiograms were recorded and vt cycle length measured for the periods 31 to 21 and 11 to 1 beats before termination in 55 episodes from 28 patients with coronary artery disease. beats 31 to 21 were designated as a period of stable arrhythmia and served as a reference for changes occurring just before termination. forty-four episodes of vt occurred in the setting of antiarrhythmic drug therapy; 11 episodes occurred in patients not treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. variability in cycle length was indexed by the standard deviation of the mean cycle length and by the percentage of consecutive cycles varying by greater than or equal to 40 ms (% greater than or equal to 40 ms). there was greater variability just before termination (standard deviation of the mean cycle length, 25.8 ms; % greater than or equal to 40 ms, 16.7%) than during the stable period (standard deviation of the mean cycle length, 8.5 ms; % greater than or equal to 40 ms, 5.4%; p less than 0.001 for both). this was true irrespective of antiarrhythmic drug use, although the differences in the standard deviation of the mean cycle length for beats 11 to 1 and for beats 31 to 21 were greater for the antiarrhythmic drug group (29.6 vs 8.9 ms, p less than 0.001) than for the group not receiving antiarrhythmic drugs (11.0 vs 6.7 ms, difference not significant). no specific patterns of cycle length variability characteristic of vt termination were found.
temporal arteritis with normal erythrocyte sedimentation rates presenting as occipital neuralgia. a retrospective review of 46 patients with biopsy-proven giant cell (temporal) arteritis revealed 8 (17%) whose initial presentation was occipital pain. the most likely etiology of occipital pain in these patients was occipital artery inflammation. a westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate less than 40 mm/hour was noted at presentation in 6 of these 8 patients. giant cell arteritis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly patients who present with occipital pain and demonstrate a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
effect of fibrin sealant on the healing colonic anastomosis in the rat. fibrin adhesives have been advocated as a protective seal in colonic anastomosis to prevent leakage. in order to assess the effect of fibrin glue sealing we compared the healing of sutured colonic anastomosis in the rat (group 1) with the addition of human-derived fibrin sealant (group 2). as a control for a possible reaction to foreign protein, in group 3 the sutured anastomosis was sealed with specially prepared rat fibrin adhesive. on days 2, 4 and 7, ten animals in each group were killed. adhesion formation was scored and the in situ bursting pressure was measured. the collagen concentration and degradation were estimated by measuring hydroxyproline. adhesion formation was significantly increased in groups 2 and 3 compared with the control group. on days 2 and 7 the bursting pressure was not different between the groups. on day 4 the bursting pressure in groups 2 and 3 was significantly lower than in group 1 (p less than 0.001). these findings correspond with the results of collagen measurements. on day 4 the concentration of hydroxyproline was significantly reduced in groups 2 and 3. histological examination showed infiltration of neutrophilic granulocytes into the sealant on days 2 and 4; on day 7 the sealant had vanished. from these results it is concluded that fibrin sealing of the colonic anastomosis in the rat does not improve healing, as demonstrated by bursting pressure and hydroxyproline concentration. on the contrary, it seems to have a negative influence.
minor papilla cannulation and dorsal ductography in pancreas divisum. until recently, pancreas divisum represented a major technical barrier to a complete evaluation of pancreatic ductal anatomy. technical refinements have now made it possible to achieve minor papilla cannulation and dorsal ductography in more than 90% of attempts. in 120 consecutive dorsal ductograms, structural pathology was demonstrated in 36 subjects (30%): chronic pancreatitis in 23, pancreatic stones in 10, pseudocyst(s) in 4, ductal "cut-off" in 7, pancreatic cancer in 3, and partial agenesis in 1 (some patients had more than one finding). for patients in whom alcohol abuse was excluded, ductal pathology was present in 25%. abnormal ventral ductograms were present in only 8% of cases, demonstrating that dorsal ductography has an appreciable additional diagnostic yield. when the clinical situation indicates the need for pancreatography, minor papilla cannulation should be performed if major papilla cannulation fails or reveals only the ventral pancreatogram of pancreas divisum.
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: fasting plasma levels of cysteine and inorganic sulfate are normal, as are brain contents of cysteine. recent reports suggest that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) is caused by one or more unidentified neurotoxins that are poorly metabolized in patients to less toxic and more readily excreted compounds, and that a genetically determined defect in cysteine degradation and in inorganic sulfate production is the mechanism underlying a failure to metabolize xenobiotics normally in als. we measured concentrations of total cysteine and of inorganic sulfate in the plasma of age-matched groups of als patients and healthy control subjects and found no differences. l-cysteine, a putative endogenous neurotoxin in als, was present in equal concentrations in autopsied brain from als patients and controls.
immunopathology of olfactory mucosa following injury to the olfactory bulb. removal of the olfactory bulb was performed on rats in an attempt to elucidate the processes of olfactory dysfunction following head injury. degeneration and regeneration of the olfactory mucosa were examined, histopathologically and immunohistochemically. we used antisera to olfactory marker protein (omp) and neuron specific enolase (nse) as a marker of the mature olfactory receptor neurons. following rapid degeneration after bulbectomy, the olfactory receptor neurons regenerated. omp and nse containing cells re-appeared 49 days later. however, the cell population of the neuroepithelium did not revert to the numbers observed in the non-operated neuroepithelium, even three months later. the lack of a connection between regenerated axons and the olfactory bulb may result in immature neuronal replacement and reduce the number of olfactory receptor neurons.
t cell receptor peptide therapy triggers autoregulation of experimental encephalomyelitis. encephalitogenic t cells specific for myelin basic protein share common v beta 8 peptide sequences in their t cell receptor (tcr) that can induce autoregulatory t cells and antibodies that prevent clinical signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae). it is not known, however, if tcr peptides can treat established disease. to test its therapeutic value, tcr-v beta 8-39-59 peptide was injected into rats with clinical signs of eae. this treatment reduced disease severity and speeded recovery, apparently by boosting anti-v beta 8 t cells and antibodies raised naturally in response to encephalitogenic v beta 8+ t cells. these results demonstrate that synthetic tcr peptides can be used therapeutically, and implicate the tcr-v beta 8-39-59 sequence as a natural idiotope involved in eae recovery. similarly, human tcr peptides may be effective in enhancing natural regulation of autoreactive t cells that share common v genes.
the rat glucagon gene is regulated by a protein kinase a-dependent pathway in pancreatic islet cells. a camp response element (cre) has been identified in the proximal 5'-flanking region of the rat glucagon gene, and activation of the camp-dependent pathway in fetal rat intestinal cells leads to an increase in the levels of glucagon mrna transcripts. in contrast, the human glucagon gene does not contain a similar cre, and the results of studies using immortalized rat and hamster islet cell lines have suggested that glucagon gene expression may not be regulated by camp. to reconcile these observations, we have studied the control of glucagon gene expression. incubation of primary rat islet cell cultures with forskolin in the presence of low (0.5 g/liter) or high (2.0 g/l) glucose resulted in a 2- to 3-fold increase in the levels of glucagon mrna transcripts. forskolin also stimulated the secretion and synthesis of immunoreactive glucagon. the importance of the protein kinase-a-dependent pathway in the regulation of glucagon gene expression was also examined in hamster islet inr1-g9 cells. cotransfection of a glucagon-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (cat) fusion gene containing the glucagon cre and a cdna encoding the catalytic subunit of protein kinase-a resulted in stimulation of glucagon-cat activity in hamster islet cells. catalytic subunit cotransfection also activated somatostatin-cat, but no activation of rsvcat was detected. the results of these experiments suggest that the rat glucagon gene is regulated by a protein kinase-a-dependent pathway in the endocrine pancreas.
cell-to-cell communication and the control of growth. growth of transformed cells is inhibited by cell-to-cell communication with normal cells. this communication is regulated by certain oncogenes that alone or in cooperation can block the communication.
acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy (ahei)--a variant of henoch-schonlein purpura or a distinct clinical entity? acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy (ahei) is an acute cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis (lcv) of infants. the clinical picture has a violent onset with a short benign course followed by spontaneous complete recovery. we report 12 infants with ahei who were studied clinically, serologically, and immunohistologically. edema and palpable purpuric skin lesions were present in all infants who were in good general condition. serologic studies were unremarkable. light microscopic examination of the skin biopsy specimens revealed lcv as in henoch-schonlein purpura (hsp). direct immunofluorescent study revealed depositions of various immunoreactants, including fibrinogen, c3, igg, igm, iga, and ige (100%, 100%, 22%, 78%, 33%, and 33%, respectively) in the wall and around the small vessels. similar deposition of clq was also present in three infants in whom clq could be studied (100%). the clinical similarities and differences between ahei and hsp have been discussed in the literature. ahei is observed before 2 years of age and is confined to the skin. the skin lesions of hsp are more polymorphic. although histopathologic findings are similar, the immunohistologic pattern found in our series of ahei is rather different from the pattern of hsp. taking all of these findings into account, we suggest that ahei should be considered as a separate, clinicopathologic entity or a possible variant of hsp. the more descriptive term "acute benign cutaneous lcv of infancy" is offered for this clinicopathologic entity.
the "natural history" of segmental wall motion abnormalities in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. s.p.i. research group. intraoperative segmental wall motion abnormalities (swma) detected by transesophageal echocardiography (tee) are sensitive, but not always specific, markers of myocardial ischemia. to determine their incidence, characteristics, and relation to postoperative cardiac morbidity, we continuously recorded the left ventricular short-axis view and 12-lead ecg in 156 high-risk patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery. monitoring was clinically blinded. wall motion was scored at predefined clinical, hemodynamic, and ecg events and at periodic intervals (26 +/- 11 samples per patient). we detected 44 episodes of new or worsened swma in 32 patients (20%). the severity of most episodes was limited to severe hypokinesis (24/44, 55%) followed by akinesis (16/44, 36%) and dyskinesis (4/44, 9%). the remaining 124 patients had normal wall motion or only mild hypokinesis (56/156, 36%) or chronic swma (68/156, 44%). the incidence of new swma did not differ for patients with known coronary artery disease (cad) and those with cardiac risk factors only (22% vs. 19%, p = not significant), although cad patients had a significantly greater incidence of chronic swma (62% vs. 41%, p = 0.02). the incidence of new or worsened swma was significantly greater during aortic vascular surgery (38% vs. 17%, p = 0.05). approximately 40% of all new tee changes occurred in the absence of either an apparent clinical event or a significant change in systolic blood pressure or heart rate. ten patients had new or worsened swma persisting until the end of surgery, 8 with new akinesis, only 1 developing myocardial infarction. the distribution of new or worsened swma and significant intraoperative st-t changes (n = 19) in this cohort was discordant: temporal overlap between modalities was present in only 5 patients. major cardiac complications occurred in 5 patients (3.2%), all of whom underwent peripheral vascularization. all patients with cardiac complications and new or worsened swma also had intraoperative or early postoperative st-t changes. we conclude that: 1) continuous tee recording with offline analysis in this high-risk group of patients revealed a relatively low incidence of new or worsened swma (20%), most episodes of which were characterized by severe hypokinesis (55%); 2) episodes were more common in patients undergoing aortic vascular surgery; 3) approximately 40% of episodes were unaccompanied by clinical events or significant hemodynamic changes; 4) episodes were poorly correlated with postoperative cardiac complications; and 5) the discordant relation between tee and ecg changes observed here necessitates careful monitoring of the ecg when tee is used clinically.
effects of dipyridamole and aminophylline on hemodynamics, regional myocardial blood flow and thallium-201 washout in the setting of a critical coronary stenosis. experiments were performed to characterize the interaction of intravenous dipyridamole and aminophylline on thallium-201 transport kinetics, regional myocardial blood flow and systemic hemodynamics in the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis. in 12 dogs with a critical left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis, arterial pressure decreased from a mean value (+/- sem) of 107 +/- 6 to 94 +/- 3 mm hg (p less than 0.05) and distal left anterior descending artery pressure decreased from 70 +/- 7 to 55 +/- 4 mm hg (p less than 0.05) after intravenous administration of dipyridamole (0.25 mg/kg body weight). in the left anterior descending perfusion zone, the endocardial/epicardial flow ratio decreased from 0.70 to 0.36 and the intrinsic thallium washout rate was significantly prolonged. intravenous aminophylline (5 mg/kg) reversed the dipyridamole-induced systemic hypotension and transmural coronary steal and restored the thallium washout rate to baseline values. in six other dogs, aminophylline alone resulted in no alterations in systemic and coronary hemodynamics or regional myocardial blood flow. as expected, dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and coronary steal were prevented by aminophylline pretreatment. these data show that in a canine model of partial coronary stenosis, systemic hypotension, adverse regional flow effects (coronary steal) and prolonged thallium-201 washout consequent to intravenously administered dipyridamole are promptly reversed by intravenous aminophylline administration. aminophylline alone had no significant hemodynamic and coronary flow effects. this study provides further insight into the altered thallium kinetics occurring as a consequence of dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and suggests that the prompt reversal of symptoms and signs of ischemia with aminophylline in patients receiving intravenous dipyridamole for clinical imaging studies probably reflects the reversal of transmural coronary steal.
exaggerated venous mural hypertrophy in association with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate. a 61-year-old black man presented with metastases to the right groin 5 years after 125iodine treatment for a well differentiated primary prostatic adenocarcinoma. medium sized veins within and immediately adjacent to the neoplasm showed marked mural thickening due to hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the inner circular and outer longitudinal muscles. there was no histological evidence of radiation effect in the stroma or in the tumor cells. we could find no report in the literature of such changes associated with metastatic carcinoma.
tissue distribution of 2-3 and 2-6 sialyl lewis a antigens and significance of the ratio of two antigens for the differential diagnosis of malignant and benign disorders of the digestive tract. the authors investigated the tissue distribution of two kinds of sialylated derivatives of lewis a (le(a)) antigen in patients with cancers of the digestive system using specific monoclonal antibodies, and evaluated the significance of determining the 2-3 and 2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen levels for the diagnosis of cancer. in most specimens from patients with cancers of the pancreas, biliary tract, stomach, and colon, the 2-3 sialylated le(a) antigen was strongly expressed in cancer cells. however, 2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen was less frequently expressed in cancer cells. the former is therefore more specific to cancer than the latter. also, the serum level of the 2-3 sialylated le(a) antigen was significantly higher than that of the 2-6 counterpart in patients with cancers of pancreas, biliary tract, stomach, and colon. the resulting ratio of serum 2-3/2-6 sialylated le(a) antigens was frequently high in patients with malignancy and was low in patients with benign disorders of these digestive organs. therefore, the 2-3/2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen ratio is a useful for the differential diagnosis of malignant disorders in these organs. however, liver disorders were found to be exceptional in that both antigens were mostly absent in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) cells in immunohistologic examination, as well as in nonmalignant parenchymal liver cells. only the epithelial cells of the intrahepatic bile ducts expressed the 2-6 sialylated le(a) antigen strongly, and expressed the 2-3 sialylated le(a) antigen moderately. the levels of both antigens were sometimes high in patients with liver disorders, but the ratio always remained low in patients with hcc as well as benign liver disorders such as cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis. the sialylated le(a) antigens, which sometimes accumulate in the sera of patients with hcc, were concluded to originate from the epithelial cells of the proliferating small bile ducts, and those serum antigens cannot be considered as evidence for the presence of liver cancer cells.
relation between flow grade after thrombolytic therapy and the effect of angioplasty on left ventricular function: a prospective randomized trial. recent intervention trials during myocardial infarction demonstrated no benefit from emergency angioplasty after thrombolytic therapy when compared with either delayed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) or a conservative strategy. however, it is possible that subgroups of patients may benefit from early intervention with angioplasty. we performed a prospective randomized trial in patients with a patent infarct-related artery after thrombolytic therapy to determine whether initial flow grade is related to infarct-zone function and whether patients with ineffective reperfusion (greater than 90% stenosis or thrombolysis in myocardial infarction [timi] flow less than or equal to 2) might benefit from immediate ptca. thrombolytic therapy was administered to 170 patients at a mean of 2.1 +/- 0.5 hours after onset of myocardial infarction. a patent infarct-related artery that was suitable for angioplasty was present in 89 patients who comprised the study group; after randomization, 47 of 50 patients with a patent infarct-related artery had successful emergency ptca 3.8 +/- 1.5 hours after onset of symptoms, and 39 were scheduled for delayed (18 to 48-hour) ptca. reocclusion occurred before the scheduled (delayed) procedure in eight patients (20.5%), and was symptomatic in six. infarct-region function (by the centerline method) measured initially, before discharge, and at 4 months was similar in both groups; improvement was significant (p less than 0.001) at discharge when compared with initial values with no further change at 4 months. however, patients with ineffective reperfusion had greater hypokinesia initially (p less than 0.05) compared with those with effective reperfusion (less than or equal to 90% stenosis plus timi flow 3). moreover, independent of the timing of ptca, improvement was greater before discharge in patients with ineffective reperfusion (p less than 0.05) with a trend also evident at 4 months. importantly, 42 of 51 patients (82%) with a residual lumen less than 0.4 mm after thrombolysis had some improvement in function at discharge; this compared with a previous study in which patients with a similar degree of stenosis (without ptca) had no improvement. moreover, reocclusion occurred before scheduled (delayed) ptca in 37% of patients with greater than 90% stenosis compared with only 5% in those with less than or equal to 90% stenosis (p = 0.02). thus flow grade is an important determinant of myocardial function in patients with a patent artery after thrombolytic therapy and is predictive both of improvement in wall motion after ptca and early reocclusion.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
expandable venous stents for treatment of the budd-chiari syndrome. the goals of treatment of the budd-chiari syndrome are relief of portal hypertension, relief of inferior vena cava syndrome, if present, and preservation of hepatic function. this study presents a patient with clinical resolution of the budd-chiari syndrome after placement of expandable metallic stents in the inferior vena cava and hepatic veins. a 26-year-old man with severe ascites and lower extremity edema but with relatively preserved hepatic function had a small gradient across a suprahepatic caval web, large gradients across an intrahepatic caval stenosis and the left hepatic vein, and an occluded right hepatic vein. under angiographic control, web and caval stenosis were balloon-dilated, and modified gianturco expandable metallic stents were placed in the intrahepatic vena cava. the left hepatic vein was dilated twice and a stent was placed. all gradients were completely eliminated. there were no complications and after 1 year, the stents have fully expanded without migration, edema and ascites have resolved, hepatic function has normalized, and the patient has returned to work. this new technique provides a simple, safe, effective, relatively inexpensive, and potentially long-lasting treatment for selected patients with the budd-chiari syndrome.
survival of children and adolescents with acute lymphoid leukemia. a study of american indians and hispanic and non-hispanic whites treated in new mexico (1969 to 1986). during the period 1969 to 1986, 196 american indian and hispanic and non-hispanic white children and adolescents (ages, 0 to 19 years) were treated for acute lymphoid leukemia (all) at the university of new mexico affiliated institutions. there were 28 american indians (14%), 91 hispanic whites (46%), and 77 non-hispanic whites (39%). median survivals for patients undergoing antileukemic therapy ranged from 8 months for american indian boys to 140 months for non-hispanic white girls. american indian boys had the highest initial median leukocyte count (wbc) at 23.8 x 10(9)/l. compliance problems occurred most commonly among american indian children of both genders. other clinical and pathologic features evaluated in this study were distributed similarly among the ethnic gender groups. multi-variate analysis revealed that independent prognostic variables for survival included initial wbc, age, and gender. ethnicity and compliance problems were possible, but confounded, prognostic variables. to the authors' knowledge this represents the most comprehensive study to date of all in american indian patients.
recovery time of independent function post-stroke. stroke patients undergoing physical rehabilitation were monitored daily to determine the length of time needed to recover independent function. of the 93 patients admitted, there were 45 who could not attain the sitting position independently, 75 who could not walk independently and 75 who could not negotiate the stairs independently. by discharge, 25 of 45 patients (55.6%) were able to attain sitting from supine independently, 35 of 75 patients (46.7%) achieved the ability to walk independently but only 25 of 75 patients (33.3%) learned to negotiate stairs independently. the time from admission to achievement of independent function and the time from onset of stroke to achievement of independent function was modeled in relation to explanatory variables: age, sex, side of lesion, comorbidity, the presence of depression and the extent of impairment in perception, cognition, auditory comprehension and verbal expression. four variables were found to influence recovery time: age influenced the rate of recovery of walking and stair climbing; perceptual impairment influenced the rate of achieving independent sitting and stair climbing; and depression and comprehension influenced walking.
radical vulvectomy with partial rectal resection and temporary colostomy as primary therapy for selected patients with vulvar carcinoma. the patient with carcinoma of the vulva may present with tumor involvement of the perirectal area. traditional treatment has often involved ultraradical therapy including a radical vulvectomy with posterior or total pelvic exenteration in an effort to obtain adequate surgical margins. five-year survival rates for these patients range from 20-50%, and major operative morbidity as well as psychological problems are associated with this extensive surgery. five patients treated for a locally advanced vulvar carcinoma involving the perirectal area were thought to be candidates for a rectum-sparing procedure. they underwent a radical vulvectomy, bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy, partial rectal resection, and a diverting colostomy. four of the five patients agreed to a colostomy closure 6 months after their primary therapy; these four patients have resumed normal bowel function. all patients remain clinically free of tumor.
treatment of refractory oral candidiasis with fluconazole. a case report. we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had persistent oral esophageal pseudomembranous candidiasis clinically refractory to nystatin, clotrimazole, and ketoconazole. in vitro resistance to clotrimazole was demonstrated as well. the patient received temporary relief with intravenous amphotericin b therapy, but this was associated with serious adverse effects, including transfusion-requiring anemia, azotemia, and severe thrombophlebitis. despite two courses of intravenous amphotericin b therapy, the patient's highly symptomatic, recurrent oral and esophageal candidiasis continued. the patient was then treated with fluconazole and obtained immediate relief without associated adverse effects.
blood contamination of anaesthetic and related staff the incidence of skin contamination of anaesthetic and related staff by patient's blood and saliva was studied during 270 anaesthetics in cardiff hospitals over seven continuous days in october 1989. a survey was also made of current hepatitis b immunisation status and glove-wearing habits of 75 anaesthetists. blood from 35 (14%) patients caused skin contamination of 65 staff during 46 incidents. twenty-eight (61%) of the contamination incidents occurred during vessel cannulation. five (8%) of the 65 staff contaminated by blood already had cuts on their hands. there were nine incidents (4%) of skin contamination by saliva. fifty-three (71%) anaesthetists were immunised against hepatitis b. only seven (9%) anaesthetists wear gloves for oral or nasal intubation, six (8%) for insertion of peripheral venous cannulae, 47 (63%) for insertion of arterial lines and 67 (89%) for insertion of central lines. all anaesthetic and associated staff should wear gloves on a routine basis.
early and late effects of captopril treatment after large myocardial infarction in rats. the early (after 21 days) and late (after 4 months) effects of continuous treatment with captopril on left ventricular performance, weight and volumes were studied in rats with myocardial infarction. early effects were examined in rats subjected to coronary ligation and randomized to either immediate treatment with captopril (2 g/liter drinking water) starting 2 h after surgery or no treatment. after 21 days, the treated group showed reductions in mean arterial, left ventricular systolic and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures compared with untreated rats. right and left ventricular weight and left ventricular volumes were decreased and the ejection fraction index was increased by captopril treatment. to study the late effects of captopril, a second group of rats was randomized to immediate captopril treatment (starting 2 h after surgery), delayed captopril treatment (starting 21 days after surgery) or no treatment. when studied after 4 months of treatment, rats started on captopril treatment 2 h after infarction showed no differences compared with rats started on treatment 21 days after infarction. treatment with captopril for 4 months produced changes that were similar to those in rats treated for 21 days. captopril treatment improved hemodynamic function after myocardial infarction in rats examined after either 21 days or 4 months of treatment. the extent of the benefit was similar in the two treatment periods. initiation of captopril therapy immediately after infarction did not appear to produce a greater effect than treatment started at 21 days after infarction in rats studied after the drug had been administered for 4 months.
assessment of middle-ear status during experimental otitis media using magnetic resonance imaging. magnetic resonance imaging has proved to be a useful tool for in vivo imaging of a variety of tissues. in this study, magnetic resonance imaging was applied to the middle ear of experimental animals with otitis media. results showed that the presence and distribution of effusion within the middle-ear space could be readily determined. moreover, following injection of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid, a contrast agent, the inflamed middle-ear mucosa could be resolved. a comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and tympanometry with respect to the diagnosis of effusion showed that negative pressure tympanograms were equivocal (50% effusion) and that flat or normal tympanograms were in error in approximately 20% of the observations. these data document a role for magnetic resonance imaging in in vivo studies of the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion.
epilepsy with continuous spike-waves during slow sleep and its treatment. five children with epilepsy with "continuous spike-waves during slow sleep" (csws) are reported. the main clinical features of csws include (a) onset between 5 and 7 years of age, (b) the occurrence of several types of seizure (i.e., partial motor, generalized motor, and atypical absence), and (c) the presence of language disturbances and abnormal behavior based on emotional impairment. the eeg findings were characterized by sleep tracings showing almost continuous (greater than 95%), diffuse slow spike and wave activity. after treatment with valproate (vpa) (or ethosuximide, esm) and clonazepam (czp), the spike and wave complex status disappeared. symptoms and signs of the csws also decreased. we suggest that combined treatment is an appropriate treatment for csws.
mutations in the k-ras oncogene induced by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine in preneoplastic and neoplastic rat colonic mucosa. these experiments were conducted to determine whether point mutations activating k-ras or h-ras oncogenes, induced by the procarcinogen 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (dmh), were detectable in preneoplastic or neoplastic rat colonic mucosa. rats were injected weekly with diluent or dmh at 20 mg/kg body wt for 5, 10, 15, or 25 wk, killed, and their colons dissected. dna was extracted from diluent-injected control animals, histologically normal colonic mucosa from carcinogen-treated animals, and from carcinomas. ras mutations were characterized by differential hybridization using allele-specific oligonucleotide probes to polymerase chain reaction--amplified dna, and confirmed by dna sequencing. while no h-ras mutations were detectable in any group, k-ras (g to a) mutations were found in 66% of dmh-induced colon carcinomas. these mutations were at the second nucleotide of codons 12 or 13 or the first nucleotide of codon 59 of the k-ras gene. the same type of k-ras mutations were observed in premalignant colonic mucosa from 2 out of 11 rats as early as 15 wk after beginning carcinogen injections when no dysplasia, adenomas, or carcinomas were histologically evident, suggesting that ras mutation may be an early event in colon carcinogenesis.
defective dystrophin in duchenne and becker dystrophy myotubes in cell culture. we examined normal and dystrophic human myotubes in cell culture for expression of dystrophin, the protein product of the duchenne muscular dystrophy locus. dystrophin levels in developing myotubes detected by western blotting increased after 24 hours and reached maximum levels after 10 days in fusion medium. we did not detect dystrophin in myotubes cultured from duchenne myoblasts (7 cases). myotubes from a becker muscular dystrophy patient's biopsy produced a lower molecular weight (approximately 408 kd) dystrophin, which was the same size in a whole muscle preparation from the same biopsy. this 408-kd dystrophin was the expected size for this becker patient whose dna was deleted for exons 45-48 of the duchenne gene. this cell culture system will allow a detailed analysis of the effects of potential pharmacologic agents on steady-state dystrophin levels.
reconstructions after resections of tumors involving the proximal femur. advances in prosthesis design, the use of allografts, and a systematic approach to the staging and surgical treatment of musculoskeletal tumors have made limb salvage possible in the proximal femoral region. with the use of effective adjuvant therapy, limb salvage is now an option for the majority of patients presenting with locally invasive neoplasms in this area. the increase in functional outcome is sufficient to warrant serious consideration of limb salvage over the corresponding amputation. preoperative planning is discussed along with surgical techniques.
muscle fatigue in mcardle's disease. muscle fibre conduction velocity and surface emg frequency spectrum during ischaemic exercise. the origin of fatigue in mcardle's disease is still a matter of debate. both a reduction of muscle membrane excitability and failure of excitation-contraction (e-c) coupling have been suggested as causes. we performed intermittent isometric biceps brachii contractions (80% maximal voluntary contraction, rate 30/min) under local ischaemia in 5 mcardle's disease patients and 26 healthy controls. our results show that in mcardle's disease the exerted force is less, the surface emg (semg) amplitude steadily increases, and that the power density spectrum (pds) shifts to lower frequencies, the latter without significant differences when compared with normals. the most important finding is that muscle membrane excitability remains unimpaired during ischaemic exercise, establishing a dominant role for intramuscular lactic acid formation in the reduction of muscle fibre conduction velocity seen in normal subjects. as is indicated by the shift of the pds towards lower frequencies, as well as by the increase in semg amplitude, it can be concluded that during ischaemic exercise in patients with myophosphorylase deficiency, fatigue occurs without alterations in muscle membrane excitability and is due to a failure of e-c coupling.
topical calcipotriol treatment in advanced breast cancer [published erratum appears in lancet 1991 jun 29;337(8757):1618] 19 patients with locally advanced or cutaneous metastatic breast cancer were treated with the topical vitamin d analogue calcipotriol 100 micrograms daily. 14 patients completed 6 weeks' treatment; 3 showed a 50% reduction in the bidimensional diameter of treated lesions and 1 other patient showed a minimal response. 2 patients became hypercalcaemic during treatment. in all patients who responded the tumours contained receptors for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3, shown by immunocytochemistry.
oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus. a case report. the risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point. many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus. we report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred. there is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population. this suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites.
the t(1;19)(q23;p13) results in consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences in acute lymphoblastic leukemias. the t(1;19)(q23;p13) chromosomal translocation is observed cytogenetically in 25% of children with pre-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and is associated with an adverse treatment outcome. the t(1;19) juxtaposes the e2a gene from chromosome 19 with the pbx1 gene on chromosome 1, leading to the production of fusion transcripts and resultant chimeric proteins that contain the transcriptional-activating motif of e2a and the dna-binding homeodomain of pbx1. to investigate the molecular nature of e2a/pbx1 fusion in patients with t(1;19) all we used an rna-based polymerase chain reaction (pcr) procedure to amplify a portion of the chimeric transcript. we detected e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts in cells from 97% (37 of 38) of cases in which the t(1;19) had been observed cytogenetically. molecular evidence of e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts was also observed in a patient in whom a t(1;19) was not detected cytogenetically and in one patient with subclinical levels of minimal residual disease before overt clinical relapse. in all pcr-positive cases the junction of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences occurred at precisely the same location as demonstrated by hybridization of pcr products with a fusion site-specific detection oligonucleotide. these findings demonstrate the consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences resulting from t(1;19) and suggest that site-specific fusion of e2a and pbx1 is an important pathogenic event in t(1;19) all.
spatiotemporal contrast sensitivity differs in normal aging and parkinson's disease. we measured contrast sensitivity for static and laterally drifting vertical gratings in 12 young adults, 7 normal elderly adults, and 8 patients with parkinson's disease (pd). we compared static and motion contrast sensitivity for spatial frequencies of 0.25, 1, and 4 cycles per degree (cpd), and temporal frequencies of 1, 3, and 9 hz. results show that normal aging leads to a reduction of motion sensitivity for the spatial frequency of 0.25 cpd. compared with elderly controls, pd patients do not present specific abnormalities in this domain. however, for spatial frequencies of 1 and 4 cpd and temporal frequencies of 1 and 3 hz, motion sensitivity is worse than static sensitivity in pd patients and not in elderly controls. these findings suggest a specific deficit of motion perception in pd, and possible dopaminergic involvement in the control of visuospatial behavior.
ultrasonic integrated backscatter two-dimensional imaging: evaluation of m-mode guided acquisition and immediate analysis in 55 consecutive patients. we have shown previously that cardiac cycle-dependent integrated backscatter characterizes the physical state of myocardium in patients with ischemic heart disease and cardiomyopathy. in the present study the clinical applicability of m-mode guided two-dimensional integrated backscatter imaging was defined in evaluation of 55 nonselected patients. the mean amplitude of cyclic variation of integrated backscatter in normal segments (long-axis view) was as follows: basal septum, 4.2 +/- 1.3 db (mean +/- sd; n = 27), mid-septum, 4.5 +/- 1.0 db (n = 26), basal posterior, 4.8 +/- 1.0 db (n = 30), and mid-posterior, 4.8 +/- 1.2 decibels (n = 27). the respective mean delay values (r wave to nadir) were as follows: 0.89 +/- 0.09, 0.84 +/- 0.09, 0.86 +/- 0.09, and 0.85 +/- 0.12. at least one cardiac cycle could be analyzed fully in 62% of patients. limitations included technically difficult two-dimensional echocardiography, inadequate m-line orientation, technically remediable errors, or poor quality integrated backscatter images. in abnormal segments (n = 13) cyclic variation was reduced and delay was prolonged (1.2 +/- 1.1 db and 1.21 +/- 1.1, respectively). intraobserver and interobserver variability for amplitude measurements were modest, with respective correlation coefficients of r = 0.93; r = 0.72. the findings demonstrate that m-mode--assisted integrated backscatter is a practical approach for characterization of regional myocardial properties promptly and at the bedside in a large portion of patients with cardiac disease.
a randomized comparison of manipulation of the fractured nose under local and general anaesthesia. reduction of simple nasal fractures may be performed under local or general anaesthesia: the latter is by far the most popular method in britain, though why is hard to define. we have attempted to compare the 2 approaches by means of a randomized, prospective trial. fifty consecutive, adult patients with radiologically proved fractures of the nasal bones were randomized to a local or general anaesthesia group and underwent manipulation with asch's and walsham's forceps between 7 and 15 days post-injury. analysis of results at 4 h and 8 weeks post-operatively showed no significant benefit conferred by fracture reduction under general anaesthesia as opposed to local anaesthesia with respect to post-operative airway patency or cosmesis. it is suggested that significant benefits can be obtained in terms of patient convenience and cost effectiveness if nasal fractures are reduced under local anaesthesia as an outpatient procedure.
ovarian suspension in massive ovarian edema. massive ovarian edema is an uncommon condition found in young women that is speculated to occur as a result of incomplete ovarian torsion. we present the second patient to our knowledge to undergo ovarian suspension as a treatment for this condition. this approach succeeded after ovarian wedge resection had failed. our patient remained symptom-free at 1 year of follow-up. ovarian suspension should be considered when this pathologic entity is diagnosed.
outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants. eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied. all the infants were systemically unwell, with polymorpholeucocytosis. diagnosis was by blood culture, and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation. infection was often multifocal, with sites around the knee being most commonly affected. staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated, even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum. even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common.
hepatic injury induced by bile salts: correlation between biochemical and morphological events. continuous intravenous infusion of taurochenodeoxycholate at a rate of 0.4 mumol.min-1.100 gm-1 for only 30 min in rats caused threefold to tenfold greater release of proteins (alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase and albumin) into bile in comparison with animals infused with tauroursodeoxycholate at much higher rates (1.8 mumol.min-1.100 gm-1) for 2 hr. the simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate and taurochenodeoxycholate (0.6 and 0.4 mumol.min-1.100 gm-1, respectively) for 2 hr prevented the marked biochemical changes in the bile induced by taurochenodeoxycholate for 15 to 60 min exhibited significantly more necrotic hepatocytes, especially in zone 1, in comparison with animals infused with tauroursodeoxycholate or a combination of taurochenodeoxycholate and tauroursodeoxycholate. a good correlation was observed between biochemical and morphological indices of bile acid-induced hepatocyte injury. these data suggest that (a) primary events induced by the acute infusion of toxic bile salts responsible for cholestasis include zone 1 hepatocellular necrosis and (b) this can be prevented by the simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate.
meningeal carcinomatosis in breast cancer. prognostic factors and influence of treatment. in 58 breast cancer patients with meningeal carcinomatosis (mc) pretreatment characteristics, clinical course, and response to treatment were evaluated. forty-four patients were uniformly treated with intraventricular chemotherapy. fourteen patients did not receive intraventricular treatment. in the intraventricularly treated group the median survival was 12 weeks. multivariate analysis of the pretreatment characteristics of the intraventricularly treated patients demonstrated a prognostic significance with respect to survival for age older than 55 years, lung metastases, cranial nerve involvement, cerebrospinal fluid (csf) glucose less than 2.5 mmol/l, and csf protein 0.51 to 1.0 g/l. based on the significance of these predicting factors a prognostic index (pi) identified four groups of patients with a median survival of 43 weeks, 22 weeks, 11 weeks, and 3 weeks, respectively. after 6 weeks of intraventricular treatment 22 patients showed a neurologic improvement or stabilization, and nine patients showed a worsening of the neurologic signs, whereas 13 patients (30%) had already died. the responders had a median additional survival of 5 months versus 1 month for nonresponders. no relation was found between survival and intensity of the intraventricular treatment after the first 6 weeks of treatment. almost all long survivors had also received systemic treatment for systemic disease, whereas most patients who died within 6 months did not receive systemic therapy. radiation therapy had no influence on the survival time. early death due to the intensive treatment occurred in three patients. in 11 of the 17 patients who survived more than 4 months an often seriously debilitating late neurotoxicity developed. the survival curve of the nonintraventricularly treated patients appeared to be essentially the same as the curve of the intraventricularly treated patients. using the same pi the predicted survival time was also the same as in the intraventricularly treated group. it is concluded that survival in mc from breast carcinoma may be more dependent on some pretreatment characteristics than on treatment intensity. on the basis of these pretreatment characteristics the survival time seems to be predictable. finally, late neurotoxicity due to aggressive treatment leads to impairment of the quality of life in more than 50% of the long survivors. the exact value of intraventricular and systemic therapy in patients with mc still has to be determined.
stress adaptation and low-frequency impedance of rat lungs. at transpulmonary pressures (ptp) of 7-12 cmh2o, pressure-volume hysteresis of isolated cat lungs has been found to be 20-50% larger than predicted from their amount of stress adaptation (j. hildebrandt, j. appl. physiol. 28: 365-372, 1970). this behavior is inconsistent with linear viscoelasticity and has been interpreted in terms of plastoelasticity. we have reinvestigated this phenomenon in isolated lungs from 12 wistar rats by measuring 1) the changes in ptp after 0.5-ml step volume changes (initial ptp of 5 cmh2o) and 2) their response to sinusoidal pressure forcing from 0.01 to 0.67 hz (2 cmh2o peak to peak, mean ptp of 6 cmh2o). stress adaptation curves were found to fit approximately hildebrandt's logarithmic model [delta ptp/delta v = a - b.log(t)] from 0.2 to 100 s, where delta v is the step volume change, a and b are coefficients, and t is time. a and b averaged 1.06 +/- 0.11 and 0.173 +/- 0.019 cmh2o/ml, respectively, with minor differences between stress relaxation and stress recovery curves. the response to sinusoidal forcing was characterized by the effective resistance (re) and elastance (el). re decreased from 2.48 +/- 0.41 cmh2o.ml-1.s at 0.01 hz to 0.18 +/- 0.03 cmh2o.ml-1.s at 0.5 hz, and el increased from 0.99 +/- 0.10 to 1.26 +/- 0.20 cmh2o/ml on the same frequency range. these data were analyzed with the frequency-domain version of the same model, complemented by a newtonian resistance (r) to account for airway resistance: re = r + b/ (9.2f) and el = a + 0.25b + b . log 2 pi f, where f is the frequency.
streptococcal endocarditis temporally related to transesophageal echocardiography. a case of streptococcal sanguis endocarditis temporally related to a transesophageal echocardiogram is reported; and the literature on the incidence of bacteremia occurring during transesophageal echocardiography is reviewed. on the basis of this case and review of the literature, a reevaluation of the current guidelines for endocarditis prophylaxis during this procedure is recommended.
results of a multicenter trial comparing imipenem/cilastatin to tobramycin/clindamycin for intra-abdominal infections. we designed a multicenter study to compare tobramycin/clindamycin to imipenem/cilastatin for intra-abdominal infections. we included the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache ii) index of severity and excluded patients without established infection. two hundred ninety patients were enrolled, of whom 162 were evaluable. using logistic regression to analyze both outcome at the abdominal site of infection and outcome as mortality, we found a significant correlation for both with apache ii score (p less than 0.0001 for both). next we analyzed the residual effect of treatment assignment and found a significant improvement in outcome for imipenem/cilastatin-treated patients (p = 0.043). the differences in outcome were explained by a higher failure rate for patients with gram-negative organisms for tobramycin/clindamycin-treated patients (p = 0.018). this was reflected in a significantly higher incidence of fasciitis requiring reoperation and prosthetic fascial replacement. maximum peak tobramycin levels were analyzed for 63 tobramycin/clindamycin patients harboring gram-negative organisms. for failures the maximum peak was 6.4 +/- 1.9 micrograms/ml, and time to maximum peak was 4.6 +/- 5.2 days. for successes the maximum peak was 6.1 +/- 1.7 micrograms/ml, occurring at 3.8 +/- 2.6 days. this study supports inclusion of severity scoring in statistical analyses of outcome results and supports the notion that imipenem/cilastatin therapy improves outcome at the intra-abdominal site of infection as compared to a conventionally prescribed amino-glycoside-based regimen.
multi-institutional evaluation of the tokyo university ventricular assist system. a total of 61 vass developed in tokyo university were evaluated at 21 institutions in the period 1985-1989 for determination of its reliability and effectiveness. the system is comprised of a pneumatic sack-type pump (nippon zeon co.), and its driving console (aishin seiki co.). the stroke volume of the pump is 40 ml and blood contacting surfaces are coated with cardiothane. ages of the patients (pts) ranged from 12-82 yrs (mean 58 yrs). vass were used in the assist mode of lvad (54 pts), rvad (5 pts) and bvad (2 pts). most of the cases (58 pts) included postocardiotomy cardiogenic shock after surgery for ischemic (28 pts), valvular (22 pts), both ischemic and valvular (7 pts) and congenital (1 pt) heart diseases. average duration of the assist ranged from 1 hr-20 days (mean 5.6 dys). the vads could be weaned in 34 cases (56%) and among these, 13 cases (21%) survived to discharge from the hospital. causes of death in cases which could be weaned from the vad included multiple organ failure/due to delayed institution of adequate circulatory support, renal failure and systemic infection. small and minute thrombus formations were noted in 7 cases however, no pump originated thromboembolism were complicated. no troubles of the pump including leakage nor breakage, no mechanical failures of the driving consoles were experienced in any of the cases. thus, it is concluded that the system was proved to be clinically effective and reliable.
the association of skin color with blood pressure in us blacks with low socioeconomic status to determine the association of skin color, measured by a reflectometer, with blood pressure in us blacks, we studied a community sample of 457 blacks from three us cities. persons taking antihypertensive medications were excluded. both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were higher in darker persons and increased by 2 mm hg for every 1-sd increase in skin darkness. however, the association was dependent on socioeconomic status, whether measured by education or an index consisting of education, occupation, and ethnicity, being present only in person with lower levels of either indicator. using multiple linear regression, both systolic and diastolic blood pressure remained significantly associated with darker skin color in the lower levels of socioeconomic status, independent of age, body mass index, and concentrations of blood glucose, serum urea nitrogen, serum uric acid, and urinary sodium and potassium. the association of skin color with blood pressure only in low socioeconomic strata may be due to the lesser ability of such groups to deal with the psychosocial stress associated with darker skin color. however, these findings also are consistent with an interaction between an environmental factor associated with low socioeconomic status and a susceptible gene that has a higher prevalence in persons with darker skin color.
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside, "spread-out" or "up-front," in continuation therapy for childhood non-t, non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia. a pediatric oncology group study. one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t-, non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) were treated in a pediatric oncology group (pog) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate (mtx) and cytosine arabinoside (ara-c) (1 g/m2 each) were added to a "backbone" of standard continuation therapy. the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c. poor-risk patients (n = 49) were assigned to "up-front" therapy, in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission. standard-risk patients (n = 57) were assigned to "spread-out" therapy, in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment. toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c, principally neutropenia and fever, was judged significant but manageable. unexpectedly, the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after "spread-out" therapy (38%) than after "up-front" therapy (6%). at 4 years, the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival (efs) is 71% (+/- 7%) for standard-risk patients and 53% (+/- 8%) for poor-risk patients. the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies.
detection of circulating candida enolase by immunoassay in patients with cancer and invasive candidiasis background. invasive candidiasis is a major nosocomial infection that is difficult to diagnose. few biochemically defined markers of invasive candidiasis are known. initial findings suggested that the presence of candida enolase in the blood may be a novel marker for invasive candidiasis. methods. we tested 170 patients at high risk for invasive candidiasis for candida enolase antigenemia. all the patients had cancer and neutropenia. we detected antigen using a double-sandwich liposomal immunoassay for candida enolase in serially collected serum samples. invasive candidiasis was proved by finding candida species in deep nonmucosal tissue, blood cultures, or both. antigen testing was performed with the investigator blinded to tissue or culture diagnosis. results. among 24 patients with proved invasive candidiasis, 149 serum samples were tested for enolase antigenemia; 80 were positive and 69 negative (sensitivity per sample, 54 percent). multiple sampling improved the detection of antigenemia, which was found in 11 of 13 proved cases of deep tissue infection (85 percent) and in 7 of 11 proved cases of fungemia (64 percent). specificity was 96 percent as measured against control groups including patients with mucosal colonization, bacteremia, and other deep mycoses. antigenemia was detected in the absence of fungemia in 5 cases of deep tissue candidiasis, but was not detected in 6 cases of fungemia alone. conclusions. candida enolase antigenemia is a novel marker for invasive candidiasis. it may be a useful indicator of deep infection in patients with cancer and neutropenia and may complement the diagnostic usefulness of blood cultures.
vascular hypertrophy, renin and blood pressure in the young spontaneously hypertensive rat. 1. cardiovascular reactivity, blood vessel morphology, blood pressure and the activity of the renin-angiotensin system were determined in the 3-week-old spontaneously hypertensive (shr), wistar-kyoto (wky) and outbred wistar (wis) rat. 2. in an isolated perfused mesenteric artery preparation the shr had a significantly increased maximum response to kcl and noradrenaline (p less than 0.02) compared with the wky. using a myograph, vascular structure was measured over a range of resistance arteries and showed a significant correlation between lumen diameter and both media cross-sectional area and thickness, with the regression line for the shr shifted upwards indicating both increased media area and thickness. this was associated with a slight, but significant, narrowing of the lumen (p less than 0.01) and an increased media/lumen ratio (0.049 +/- 0.01, 0.034 +/- 0.007, 0.036 +/- 0.008 for shr, wky and wis, respectively, means +/- sd p less than 0.001). the shr had a greater heart/body weight ratio than either the wky or the wis (p less than 0.001). 3. both mesenteric artery and membrane protein content were higher in the shr, indicating an increase in cell size or number. 4. plasma renin activity (means +/- sd) was lower in the shr (1.0 +/- 0.7 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1) than in the wky (2.2 +/- 1.2 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1, p less than 0.001) but not different from that in the wis (1.2 +/- 0.8 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1). mesenteric artery vascular renin concentration was also lower in the shr (p = 0.06).
treatment of recurrent ischemia after thrombolysis and successful reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction: effect on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function. to determine the effect of treatment of recurrent ischemia after reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function recovery and to identify patients at highest risk of serious consequences in the event of recurrent ischemia in this setting, 405 consecutively treated patients were studied retrospectively. all patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy within 6 h of st segment elevation-documented infarction and had angiographic confirmation of their reperfusion status performed within 120 min of treatment. three hundred three patients had successful reperfusion with or without rescue angioplasty and had no recurrent ischemia (group 1), 74 patients had initially successful reperfusion but subsequent recurrent ischemia (group 2) and 28 patients had failed reperfusion (group 3). the in-hospital mortality in groups 1 to 3 was 2.0%, 14.9% and 32.1%, respectively (p less than 0.001) and the change from baseline to prehospital discharge left ventricular ejection fraction was 1.2 +/- 9.3%, -0.8 +/- 8.7% and -4.3 +/- 5.3%, respectively (p = ns). within the recurrent ischemia group (group 2), multiple regression analysis found absence of cardiogenic shock at presentation (p = 0.002) and successful treatment initiated within 90 min of recurrent ischemia (p = 0.045) to be the only variables independently correlated with in-hospital survival. later successful reperfusion was not associated with improved hospital survival. the timing and success of treatment did not affect recovery of global or regional left ventricular function in the patients with paired angiographic studies.
trochanteric fractures. mobility, complications, and mortality in 607 cases treated with the sliding-screw technique. six hundred seven trochanteric fractures (563 patients) were treated with a sliding-screw technique and followed clinically and roentgenographically for at least one year. of 351 patients admitted from their homes, 209 (60%) were discharged to their homes after an average of 18 days in the hospital. during the first year another 61 (17%) patients returned home after rehabilitation in a geriatric ward. of 446 patients walking without support or with one cane before surgery, 360 (80%) had regained the same mobility after one year. the one-year mortality rate was 18%, while the ten-year rate was 74%. compared with a control cohort, the mortality rate was increased during the first two years after fracture. the increase in mortality was influenced by advanced age, admission from long-term care institutions, male gender, and ambulatory or nonambulatory status before surgery. forty-five (7.4%) were reoperated, 17 because of technical complications, three because of infection, and three because of nonunion. no further nonunions occurred. the deep infection rate was nine of 339 (2.7%) before and two of 268 (0.8%) after the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis. thromboembolic complications decreased from 4.1% to 1.2% after the introduction of dextran 70 as thromboembolic prophylaxis.
electrocardiographic signal-averaging during atrial pacing and effect of cycle length on the terminal qrs in patients with and without inducible ventricular tachycardia. electrocardiographic signal-averaging during sinus rhythm (61 to 99 beats/min) and atrial pacing (100 to 171 beats/min) were performed to determine the effect of heart rate on late potentials in 15 patients without (group 1) and 7 patients with (group 2) inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia (vt). in sinus rhythm (79 +/- 12 vs 77 +/- 12 beats/min, difference not significant), the duration of the low-amplitude signal less than 40 microv was longer in group 2 than group 1 (43 +/- 21 vs 26 +/- 8 ms, p = 0.034) and more patients had late potentials (57 vs 7%, p = 0.021), but qrs duration (121 +/- 32 vs 98 +/- 19 ms) and terminal voltage (33 +/- 33 vs 50 +/- 26 ms) were not significantly different. with atrial pacing in group 1 (128 +/- 16 beats/min), 3 patients developed a simultaneous decrease in terminal voltage and an increase in terminal qrs duration consistent with a late potential, but mean total and terminal durations were unchanged. terminal voltage increased (50 +/- 26 to 59 +/- 40) but not significantly. with atrial pacing in group 2 (119 +/- 12 beats/min) all patients either had a late potential or developed a simultaneous decrease in terminal voltage and an increase in terminal qrs duration (p = 0.001 vs group 1). root mean square (p = 0.001 vs group 1). root mean square voltage decreased (33 +/- 23 to 22 +/- 23) and became significantly different from group 1 (p = 0.017). mean qrs duration, root mean square terminal voltage and low-amplitude terminal qrs duration, however, were unchanged.
clinoidal meningiomas. anterior clinoidal meningiomas are frequently grouped with suprasellar or sphenoid ridge meningiomas, masking their notorious association with a high mortality and morbidity rate, failure of total removal, and recurrence. to avoid injury to encased cerebral vessels, most surgeons are content with subtotal removal. without total removal, however, recurrence is expected. recent advances in cranial-base exposure and cavernous sinus surgery have facilitated radical total removal. the author reports 24 cases operated on with vigorous attempts at total removal of the tumor with involved dura and bone. this experience has distinguished three groups (i, ii, and iii) which influence surgical difficulties, the success of total removal, and outcome. these subgroups relate to the presence of interfacing arachnoid membranes between the tumor and cerebral vessels. the presence or absence of arachnoid membranes depends on the origin of the tumor and its relation to the naked segment of carotid artery lying outside the carotid cistern. total removal was impossible in the three patients in group i, with postoperative death occurring in one patient and hemiplegia in another. total removal was achieved in 18 of the 19 patients in group ii, with one death from pulmonary embolism. in the two patients in group iii, total removal without complications was easily achieved.
acute tumor lysis syndrome after intrathecal methotrexate administration. a 44-year-old man had acute tumor lysis syndrome after a single dose of intrathecal methotrexate was administered for lymphomatous meningitis (high-grade, small noncleaved b-cell) in the setting of untreated systemic disease. the metabolic derangements reversed completely with conservative therapy and did not recur with subsequent treatment. intrathecal methotrexate administration results in potentially toxic systemic methotrexate levels which persist longer than an equivalent systemic dose. active central nervous system lymphoma may increase the duration of toxic levels in the circulation and contribute to the peripheral effects of the drug. the pathogenesis of tumor lysis syndrome in this patient and the mechanisms of systemic toxicity of intrathecal methotrexate are discussed.
laser angioplasty: results of a prospective, multicenter study at 3-year follow-up. a prospective multicenter trial was initiated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of laser angioplasty. laser recanalization was performed in 338 patients with arteriosclerotic femoropopliteal artery occlusions (average length, 8.5 cm). neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet lasers were used in combination with sapphire probe catheters. the initial recanalization rate was 85%. complications were observed in 14% of the patients. emergency surgery was required in 1.5%. the cumulative long-term patency rate of the successfully recanalized arteries was 80%, 70%, 62%, and 57% at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 and 3 years, respectively. the patency rates were not affected by the length of the occlusion and the long-term medication (platelet inhibition vs anticoagulation), but patients with a normal runoff had significantly better patency rates than those with reduced runoff (63% vs 52%, p less than .01). the study has shown that laser-assisted angioplasty is safe and at least as effective as conventional angioplasty.
differences between multisite postmortem ethanol concentrations as related to agonal events. in a study of postmortem ethanol concentrations, blood was withdrawn from the right atrium, ascending aorta, and inferior vena cava. these samples, vitreous humor, and gastric fluid were analyzed in 307 autopsies, where a minimum blood ethanol concentration of 0.05% weight/volume (w/v) was present. premortem, agonal, and postmortem events were reviewed in an attempt to account for differences in blood ethanol concentrations between sites. the agonal aspiration of vomitus having at least 0.80% w/v ethanol appears to be associated with an increase in aortic ethanol concentrations. we conclude that valid interpretation of postmortem ethanol concentrations must take into consideration the possible entry of ethanol into the pulmonary venous circulation via the respiratory system.
effects of h2-receptor blockers on response of cerebral blood flow to normocapnic hypoxia. cimetidine blunts the increase in cerebral blood flow (cbf) normally observed during hypoxia. it is important, therefore, to know whether other h2-blockers also affect the cerebral circulation adaptation to hypoxia. cerebral blood flow was measured in 24 awake dogs after an intravenous injection of either saline (control) or one of three h2-blockers: 1 mg/kg ranitidine, 0.4 mg/kg famotidine, or 1 mg/kg roxatidine. these doses are equipotent blockers of h2-gastric receptors. each dog was studied during normoxia and after 2 and 4 h of normocapnic hypoxia (fio2, 0.10; fico2, 0.035). during each set of experimental conditions, a bolus of either saline or one of the anti-h2 drugs was administered, and, 15 min later, radiolabeled microspheres (ruthenium 103, scandium 46, and cerium 141) were injected into the left atrium for measurement of regional cbf. after death by an overdose of thiopental, each dog's brain was excised and fixed in 10% formaldehyde; it was then weighed and dissected by region, with the radioactivity measured in each region using a gamma counter. during hypoxia, pao2 ranged from 45 to 50 mm hg, and ph, paco2, and hematocrit were within the normal limits. in the control group cbf increased 34% above normoxic baseline levels after 2 h and 31% after 4 h of hypoxia. ranitidine (1 mg/kg) did not prevent the increase in cbf during hypoxia, but famotidine and roxatidine prevented it. when the dose of ranitidine was doubled (2 mg/kg), it too abolished the increase of cbf induced by hypoxia. in conclusion, h2-receptor blockers could interfere with the adaptation of cbf during hypoxia.
correlation of the testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y with varying gonadal phenotypes in a series of 13 subjects with gonadal dysgenesis due to y aneuploidy. deoxyribonucleic acid samples from a series of 13 subjects with 45,x/46,x,altered y, and varying gonadal phenotypes (streak-streak, n = 9; streak-testis, n = 2; testis-testis, n = 2) were analyzed for the presence of the candidate testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y. the y-specific probes y97 mapped to y centromere, pdp105 a,b mapped to yp and distal yq11, respectively, hybridized with the deoxyribonucleic acid from all the 13 study subjects. the same deoxyribonucleic acid samples were analyzed for the presence of the zinc finger y sequence. eleven of the 13 subjects were positive for the zinc finger y sequence. four zinc finger y-positive subjects had unilateral (n = 2) or bilateral (n = 2) testicular differentiation. among the nine subjects with bilateral streak gonads, seven showed the presence of this sequence. the lack of testicular differentiation in the presence of quantitatively normal or almost normal zinc finger y bands could not be explained by mosaicism alone. mutations not detectable by analysis with the method of southern with pdp1007, may occur in the testicular determinant factor gene vitiating testicular development.
osteosarcoma of the maxilla in hong kong chinese postirradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. a report of four cases. postirradiation osteosarcoma of the maxilla was seen in four hong kong chinese patients treated for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. these cases represent four of 42 (9%) cases of osteosarcoma at all sites in this institution during the period 1979 to 1989, when more than 1000 patients were treated with radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. the latent periods varied from 8 to 11 years from completion of radiotherapy treatment to development of osteosarcoma. the radiation dosage varied from 6000 to 6280 cgy in three of the patients. these cases fit the criteria for diagnosis of postirradiation sarcomas. maxillary osteosarcomas after irradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma do not appear to have been described. the very high incidence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (for which radiotherapy is the treatment of choice) in hong kong chinese would make the occurrence of such tumors more likely in hong kong, although the small risk does not contraindicate the use of radiation in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in view of its well-documented efficacy.
recent advance in treatment of stanford type a aortic dissection. during the period between november 1986 and november 1988, 13 consecutive patients with stanford type a aortic dissection (8 acute and 5 chronic) were treated as follows: (1) urgent operation for cases with pericardial tamponade or severe heart failure, (2) initial medical treatment followed by elective operation for acute but stable cases or chronic cases, and (3) routine use of open distal anastomosis or selective cerebral perfusion. one patient died during medical treatment: 5 patients were operated on emergently. the remaining 2 acute and 5 chronic cases were operated on electively. there were no operative deaths, neurological disturbances, or late deaths. it is suggested that acute dissection of the ascending aorta requires immediate surgical intervention, especially when the entry is in the ascending aorta. on the other hand, it is also suggested that one could avoid emergency operations in selected cases with retrograde extension of the aortic dissection.
lower eyelid retraction: a minimal incision surgical approach to retractor lysis. lower eyelid retraction associated with prior blepharoplasty, trauma, or other conditions is a challenging problem for the ophthalmic surgeon. we describe a procedure involving tightening the lower eyelid and supraplacing the lateral canthus in combination with in-glove lysis of the lower eyelid retractors and scar tissue. this is accomplished through a small lateral incision. to date, we have treated over 200 eyelids using this technique with excellent results. we recommend this technique for the treatment of mild to moderate degrees of lower eyelid retraction.
pilot study of sandostatin (octreotide) therapy of refractory hiv-associated diarrhea. seventeen aids patients were enrolled in a prospective open-label dose-finding study of octreotide (sandostatin) therapy for refractory diarrhea. five were nonevaluable due to progression of aids symptomatology, and one was excluded because of lack of confirmation of hiv infection. five of 11 evaluable patients responded to therapy (45%); two each at 50 micrograms and 100 micrograms, and one at 250 micrograms thrice daily doses. a sixth patient demonstrated a moderate reduction in stool volume at 250 micrograms thrice daily, which, although deemed clinically relevant, did not meet the criteria for response. on discontinuation of therapy, diarrhea recurred in all patients within 1-12 days, and responded to reinitiation of octreotide in those five patients who resumed treatment. only one of the three patients with concurrent cryptosporidial infection responded to treatment. the drug was well tolerated, with mild symptomatology in three patients. long-term treatment at a stable dose was effective in three of five treated patients for periods for seven months in one (moderate responder) and one year in two. one patient required dose increases to control symptoms, but after one year of treatment developed severe nausea following injections, which required dose cessation. one patient had partial control of his diarrhea for only three months despite two dose increases. these data suggest that octreotide may be of useful therapeutic value in hiv-associated diarrhea and that further studies are indicated.
dementia in institutionalized elderly: relation to sleep apnea. sleep apnea is characterized by transient hypoxemias which are thought to affect mental functioning. accordingly, speculation and research have focussed on relationships between sleep apnea and dementia. we studied 235 nursing home (ie institutionalized) patients (152 women with a median age of 83.5; 83 men with a median age of 79.7) with portable sleep recording equipment. the mattis dementia rating scale and the geriatric depression scale were given to each. seventy percent of the patients had five or more respiratory disturbances per hour of sleep and 96 percent showed some dementia. sleep apnea was significantly correlated with all subscales on the dementia rating scale. there were trivial differences in dementia ratings between those with mild-moderate apnea and those with no apnea. there were significant differences, however, between the latter two groups and those with severe apnea. in particular, items reflecting attention, initiation and perseveration, conceptualization, and memory tasks on the drs distinguished between those with and without severe sleep apnea. among those patients with no depression, all patients with severe sleep apnea were also severely demented. our data suggest that there is a strong relationship between dementia and sleep apnea when the sleep apnea and dementia are severe. although causality cannot be inferred from associations, our hypothesis for study is that sleep apnea causes deficits in brain function, possibly due to global effects rather than any particular cortical or subcortical structure.
emergent signs of cancer. recognizing them early in the office or er. primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer. this task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific. in most cases, therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point. thus, physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients, such as superior vena cava syndrome, malignant pericardial effusion, spinal-epidural metastasis, and altered mentation from brain metastases, metabolic encephalopathy, or hypoglycemia.
skeletal scintigraphy in coeliac disease. a patient with undiagnosed, long-standing coeliac disease had multiple hot spots on skeletal scintigraphy, similar to those observed in malignant disease metastatic to the skeleton. a gluten-free diet corrected the pathological laboratory values, and a repeat skeletal scintigram 15 months after the first one was normal. it is important to identify the secondary hyperparathyroidism of coeliac disease as a cause of multiple hot spots in skeletal scintigraphy--the finding resembles malignancy, but is due to a benign, curable condition.
reduction in infarct size by the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine in dogs with coronary artery occlusion. it has been suggested that activation of tissue phospholipases may contribute to the development of ischemic cell injury. in the present study we sought to assess whether administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine would reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary artery occlusion. in open-chest, anesthetized dogs the left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated, and technetium-99-labeled albumin microspheres were injected into the left atrium to measure the area at risk. the animals were then randomly divided into a control group (n = 8) and a group receiving quinacrine (5 mg/kg intravenous bolus followed by a 40 micrograms/kg/min infusion for 6 hours; n = 9). the animals were killed 6 hours after occlusion, and the infarcted area was delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. the extent of the risk region was similar in the two groups (32.3 +/- 2.1% of the left ventricle in control dogs and 34.2 +/- 3.4% in quinacrine-treated dogs). infarct size was 86.4 +/- 8.8% of the risk region in control animals, whereas in treated dogs it averaged 62.3 +/- 6.4% of the risk region (p = 0.05). no differences were found in heart rate, arterial pressure, and rate-pressure product between the two groups. thus administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine reduced the extent of myocardial necrosis in a model of fixed coronary artery occlusion. preservation of membrane phospholipids, reduced formation of lipoxygenase metabolites, or both may mediate this phenomenon.
polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction: polip syndrome. we describe 5 individuals (from three separate families) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy, cranial neuropathies (external ophthalmoplegia, deafness), and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied. autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system, possibly secondary to axonal atrophy, and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter (leukoencephalopathy). the cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact. the fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy. we suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical, radiological, and neuropathological features, and propose the acronym polip to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
compliance, reliability, and validity of self-monitoring for physical disturbances of parkinson's disease. the parkinson's symptom diary. previous clinical research in parkinson's disease has recognized the value of self-monitoring procedures in which patients observe and record the frequency and severity of their own symptoms as these occur within the patient's social and work environment. we discuss issues of methodology and report a study of compliance, test-retest reliability, and validity with a new self-monitoring instrument, the parkinson's symptom diary. two recordings of frequency (loss of balance, hesitation-freezing) and two ratings of severity (tremor, difficulty walking) were made four times daily for one week by patients (n = 73) who were without apparent loss of cognitive or memory functions. a total of 91% of the diaries received (97% of requested) met strict compliance criteria so that independent sampling over days could be assumed. test-retest stability over one month was demonstrated for each score (all spearman rho greater than .85) in a representative subsample of 28 patients. criterion validity was demonstrated for each score by an expected pattern of correlations with independently obtained observer ratings of the same or related indices of disease, and by comparison with hoehn and yahr disability stages. by its simplicity, this self-assessment device can be an invaluable complement to traditional methods of clinical and laboratory assessment in the care and evaluation of parkinson patients.
a complex ileovaginal fistula with associated obstructive uropathy in a patient with crohn's disease: technical considerations and review of the literature. a high index of suspicion of an ileogenital fistula should be aroused by a patient with crohn's disease, weight loss, malnutrition, and a persistent vaginal discharge. preoperative gastrointestinal and genitourinary evaluation should be used in an attempt to localize the fistulous origin as well as concomitant fistulae. the principles of surgical therapy include preoperative ureteral catheters, resection of the diseased bowel and fistulous segment of bowel, and interposition of healthy tissue (ie, omentum) between the bowel anastomosis and the vaginal cuff.
clinical diagnosis of binswanger's disease. to aid in the prospective study of binswanger's disease, a poorly understood form of vascular dementia, a standardised criteria for its antemortem diagnosis was proposed. these criteria include dementia, bilateral radiological abnormalities on computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri), and at least two of the following three clinical findings: a) a vascular risk factor or evidence of systemic vascular disease; b) evidence of focal cerebrovascular disease; and c) evidence of "subcortical" cerebral dysfunction. these criteria were validated in two ways. first, by retrospectively applying them to a series of 30 demented patients with various pathological diagnoses. second, by prospectively applying them to a series of 184 patients with clinically typical alzheimer's disease. the sensitivity and specificity of the criteria appear adequate for use in clinical research.
platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine concentration in patients with pheochromocytoma. platelet and plasma catecholamine concentrations were determined in 17 patients with surgically proven pheochromocytoma (mean age 42.3 years); in 31 patients with borderline hypertension (mean age 35.3 years) and in 9 healthy controls (mean age 39.3 years). both platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine were significantly increased in patients with pheochromocytoma when compared with hypertensive and control groups (p less than .001). no correlation between platelet and plasma catecholamines was detected in all studied groups. the diagnostic accuracy of platelet catecholamine in pheochromocytoma is limited since increased platelet norepinephrine was found in 35.5% and increased platelet epinephrine was found in 19.4% of patients with essential hypertension.
physiologic and pathologic alterations associated with ultrasonically generated shock waves. kidneys of 25 dogs were treated with ultrasonic shock waves and examined for both physiologic and pathologic changes. the number of pulses ranged from 2,000 to 8,000. the rate of the shock waves varied from one to 20 pulses per second. the difference in pulse rate did not affect the changes seen either acutely or in the delayed examination of the kidneys during the repair process. the physiologic and pathologic changes which occurred involved the renal tubule to a greater degree than the glomerulus. these alterations were resolving by one week following exposure to the shock waves.
intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses. a cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days. patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmhg of atmospheric pressure. after recovery of activity, pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmhg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time. distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site (p less than 0.001). two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmhg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmhg; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmhg. four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmhg and a peak of 45 mmhg. each contraction persisted for 15-20 min. intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence.
awareness of hypertension increases blood pressure and sympathetic responses to cold pressor test. the present study was aimed at examining the effects of awareness of hypertension on blood pressure and sympathetic responses to the cold pressor test. nineteen-year-old men with similarly elevated mean blood pressure at a medical screening, but without knowledge of this, were randomized into two groups. the first group (n = 16) was sent a letter saying that their pressure was too high, and the second (n = 13) was sent a neutral letter. information increased mean blood pressure both after 15 min sitting, by an average of 11.5 mm hg (p less than .01), and after 30 min supine rest, by an average of 4.5 mm hg (p less than .05). changes in heart rate (8.4 +/- 2.4 v 1.9 +/- 1.7 beats/min) and plasma epinephrine (0.11 +/- 0.04 v 0.01 +/- 0.03 nmol/l) during execution of a cold pressor test were significantly greater in the informed group (p less than .05). plasma dopamine was lower in the informed group (p less than .05). thus, psychological stress caused by the awareness of hypertension may increase blood pressure and sympathetic responses to a provocative maneuver. ideally, studies on sympathetic function in essential hypertension should be undertaken on subjects unaware of their blood pressure status.
visual disturbance in patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk. visual disturbance in 11 patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk was analyzed. goldmann visual field examination showed enlargement of mariotte's blind spot in 7 of 10 patients (70%) and visual field defect or depression in 7 patients (70%). in 6 of the 7 patients with visual field defect of depression (86%), the portion of visual field damage corresponded with the location of the tumor and retinal nerve fiber bundle defect. in 1 patient, sudden loss of visual acuity occurred, presumably due to anterior ischemic optic neuropathy induced by melanocytoma.
a paradigm for restenosis based on cell biology: clues for the development of new preventive therapies. angioplasty causes substantial injury to the coronary artery intima and media that is unrecognizable by angiography. on the basis of a substantial body of research in oncology and wound healing, it is hypothesized that restenosis is a manifestation of the general wound healing response expressed specifically in vascular tissue. the temporal response to injury occurs in three characteristic phases: inflammation, granulation and extracellular matrix remodeling. the specific expression of these phases in the coronary artery leads to intimal hyperplasia at 1 to 4 months. the major milestones in the temporal sequence of restenosis are platelet aggregation, inflammatory cell infiltration, release of growth factors, medial smooth muscle cell modulation and proliferation, proteoglycan deposition and extracellular matrix remodeling. each step has potential inhibitors that could be used for preventive therapy. resolution of restenosis, however, probably requires both creation of the largest possible residual lumen and substantial inhibition of intimal hyperplasia.
liver transplantation in children. although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease, relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children, and good results have been elusive. technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success. at the university of california at los angeles, 39% of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years. we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure. one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children (mean age, 5.2 years; 48% younger than 3 years). no reduced-size grafts were used. scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction, including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques, ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation. preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds, resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes. cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks, and anti-t-cell antibody (okt3) was used for rejection (38%). amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations. eighty-two of one hundred three patients (80%) are alive. there were no intraoperative deaths. actuarial survival rates at 6 months, 1 year, and 5 years are 80%, 79%, and 77%, respectively. survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65% versus 85% at age more than 1 year (p = 0.08). retransplantation was performed in 19 patients (18%), with a survival rate of 58%. hepatic artery thrombosis, the most frequent technical complication, occurred in only 16 patients (13%). survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96% and 60%, respectively (p = 0.02). graft survival was only 47% if more than one steroid cycle was needed, compared to 75% survival with okt3 treatment. despite impairment of renal function (glomerular filtration rate [gfr] less than 80 cc/kg/min) in 54% of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27%, 90% of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth, development, and functional status. the following conclusions were made. (1) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early. (2) factors that enhance survival include technical precision, aggressive retransplantation, antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy, and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
beneficial effect of atrial pacing in severe acute aortic regurgitation and role of m-mode echocardiography in determining the optimal pacing interval. the effect of atrial pacing on cardiac performance was assessed in 11 men (aged 20 to 64 years) with recent-onset severe aortic regurgitation (ar), all of whom had diastolic closure of the mitral valve on the echocardiogram. thermodilution cardiac outputs were determined, and aortic, left ventricular and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures recorded. once baseline recordings were completed, the pacing rate was increased by increments of 10 beats/min (70, 80, 90...) to a maximal rate of 140 beats/min. the optimal pacing interval, obtained from hemodynamic data, was defined as that at which the lowest filling pressure was associated with the highest cardiac index. this was then compared with a pacing interval derived from the r wave of the electrocardiogram to the diastolic mitral closing point on the m-mode echocardiogram. such an interval would shorten diastole without affecting forward mitral flow. atrial pacing improved the overall hemodynamic state in all patients; the most favorable hemodynamics were achieved at heart rates between 110 and 130 beats/min (mean: 120 +/- 8). at the optimal rate, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 46 +/- 7 to 23 +/- 12 mm hg (p less than 0.001), and the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 28 +/- 8 to 16 +/- 7 mm hg (p less than 0.001), while the cardiac index increased from 2.34 +/- 0.46 to 2.63 +/- 0.49 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.01). the mean difference between the optimal pacing interval determined from the hemodynamic data and the interval derived from the echocardiogram was 18 +/- 21 ms.
the sequelae of haemophilus influenzae meningitis in school-age children. background. previous data on the consequences of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis for school-age children have been inconsistent, and much of the information on risk factors has been inconclusive. the present study was designed to evaluate the sequelae of this disease with a protocol for the comprehensive assessment of neuropsychological function. methods. ninety-seven school-age children (mean age, 9.6 years), each of whom had a school-age sibling, were recruited from a survey of the medical records of 519 children treated for h. influenzae type b meningitis between 1972 and 1984 (at a mean age of 17 months) at the children's hospitals of toronto, ottawa, and montreal. of the 97 children, 41 had had an acute neurologic complication. sequelae were assessed by comparing the index children with their nearest siblings on the basis of standardized measures of cognitive, academic, and behavioral status. results. only 14 children (14 percent) had persisting neurologic sequelae: sensorineural hearing loss in 11 (unilateral in 6 and bilateral in 5), seizure disorder in 2, and hemiplegia and mental retardation in 1. although the total sample of index children scored slightly below the siblings in reading ability, the 56 children without acute-phase neurologic complications (58 percent) were indistinguishable from their siblings on all measures. the differences between the groups were small even for the 41 pairs in which the index child had had an acute neurologic complication (mean full-scale iq, 102 for the index children vs. 109 for the siblings). sequelae were also associated with lower socioeconomic status and a lower ratio of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid to that in blood at the time of the meningitis. behavioral problems were more prominent in index boys than index girls and in those who were older at the time of testing, but sex and age were not related to cognitive or academic sequelae. conclusions. we find a favorable prognosis for the majority of children who are treated for meningitis caused by h. influenzae type b.
the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome. a patient developed isolated numbness, 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip, but later involving the cheek, lower lip, upper gingiva, and the palate. this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop (the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome). squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve. cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches.
a model of pneumococcal pneumonia in chronically intoxicated rats. to determine the role of chronic ethanol intoxication on the pathogenesis of pneumococcal pneumonia, male sprague-dawley rats were fed an ethanol-containing diet for 1 week before intratracheal challenge with type 3 streptococcus pneumoniae and for 10 days after infection. control rats were fed the same diet except that ethanol was replaced isocalorically with carbohydrate. ethanol treatment increased pneumococcal bacteremia, levels of capsular polysaccharide antigenemia, and susceptibility to lethal pneumonia. once dissemination occurred, ethanol-fed rats failed to eliminate pneumococci from the bloodstream. ethanol-fed rats demonstrated a defect in late pulmonary clearance of pneumococci that was temporally associated with a significantly higher pneumonia severity index. pneumonia was characterized by an intense polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration, severe edema, and a fibrous exudate. bronchoalveolar lavage confirmed the heightened inflammatory response in the lungs of ethanol-fed rats, suggesting that chronic ethanol intoxication did not impair polymorphonuclear leukocyte recruitment but may alter their antipneumococcal functions.
intrapalatine resection (ipr) in the treatment of sleep apnea and snoring. a conservative surgical technique is proposed as an alternative to the classical uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (uppp) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and snoring. the resection is strictly intrapalatine, and careful suturing in three planes seems to lead to complete disappearance of the often unbearable postoperative pain. the soft palate is shortened but nonetheless still resembles a normal soft palate. uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (uppp) was described by ikematsu in 1952. this method has taken on a new lease of life in recent years. its efficacy is generally accepted, and its use, especially in cases of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, is the only treatment of the palatal velum at present practiced. in addition to aesthetic problems, this method generally gives rise to complications in the shape of temporary--but sometimes considerable--pain, nasal regurgitation, and a nasal voice. in a small percentage of patients, some of these disorders may prove irreversible. in my series of eight patients, five were obese and presented with hypertension. three of them also were suffering from obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. the three others were ordinary snorers who caused considerable inconvenience to sleeping partners.
combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery. the perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique. a group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone (ga), while in the group of 77 remaining patients, a combined epidural and general anesthesia (epi-ga) was employed. the two groups were similar in regards to age, medical risk factors, preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function, and type of surgical reconstruction. there was no significant difference in the anesthetic, operative time, or operative fluid requirements between the two groups. there was a lower rate pressure product in the epi-ga group during aortic cross clamping (p less than 0.05). more patients in the ga group required a prolonged ventilatory support (p less than 0.05) and a high parenteral narcotic administration (p less than 0.025) during the first 48 hours. while the mortality rate was similar for the two groups (3.0% for ga group vs 5.2% for epi-ga group), there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the ga group (7.6%) compared to the epi-ga group (2.6%). by facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period, epi-ga may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction.
surgical treatment of low rectovaginal fistulas. forty women with low rectovaginal fistulas were operated upon over a 9-year period. the etiology of the fistula in the majority was obstetric. nine women had prior attempts to repair the fistula. all 40 women were managed with endorectal advancement flap with the addition of sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction in 15 patients and rectocele repair in six patients. postoperative complications included urinary difficulties (two patients) and wound complications (three patients). there were two recurrences. all women treated with sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction were continent. seven women complained of varying degrees of incontinence postoperatively; none had undergone sphincter or perineal body reconstruction. endorectal advancement flap is a safe and effective operation for women with rectovaginal fistulas. concomitant sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction should be performed in women with historical, physical, or manometric evidence of incontinence.
a preliminary report of arthroscopic findings following acute condylar trauma standard therapy in orthopedics dictates that joints with suspected hemarthrosis be considered for irrigation or exploration, especially when immobilization is part of the treatment plan. in this preliminary report, 14 patients who had condylar/subcondylar fractures underwent superior joint space arthroscopy as part of the evaluation and treatment of their fractures. in all but two patients, blood was found in the superior joint space. length of time from injury to time of examination correlated with the quantities of blood found. the severity and direction of the blow seemed to influence the findings in the joints. synovial ecchymosis was a consistent finding. the disc appeared to be grossly intact and within the glenoid fossa in all cases, even when the condyle was grossly displaced. these findings raise questions about the role of direct disc injury as a source of postoperative temporomandibular joint (tmj) symptoms, as well as about the practice of immobilization of fractures immediately after trauma. further studies will be necessary to compare the treatment results in patients who have had arthroscopy versus those who have not.
diagnosis and prevalence of persistent chlamydia infection in infertile women: tissue culture, direct antigen detection, and serology. specimens for chlamydial culture, direct fluorescent antibody (dfa) test, two enzyme immunoassays (eia) for antigen detection, and serum for chlamydial antibodies were collected from 256 infertile women. specimens were taken from the tubes during tuboplasty and from the cervix and endometrium during laparoscopy or tuboplasty. antibodies to chlamydia trachomatis were found four times more often in patients with signs of prior pelvic inflammatory disease (pid) than in infertile women with normal pelvic findings. only 48 (37%) of 131 patients with signs of prior pid had a history of pid. ten or more c. trachomatis elementary bodies (ebs) per smear were found in 21 (8.2%) of 256 patients. six patients had a positive culture or a positive antigen eia test. all six had high numbers of ebs in the dfa test. we conclude that routine culture and eia antigen tests detect only a minority of persistent chlamydia infections in this population, but subjective factors in the interpretation of dfa methods must be considered.
recurrence of duodenal ulcer and elevated serum pepsinogen i levels in smokers and nonsmokers. we determined serum pepsinogen i (pg i) levels by radioimmunoassay in 472 patients with duodenal ulcer and 141 normal subjects to investigate whether serum pg i levels were related to cigarette smoking, and in 225 patients to determine whether the recurrence of duodenal ulcer was related to serum pg i levels or cigarette smoking. serum pg i levels were not influenced by cigarette smoking in either patients with duodenal ulcer or normal subjects. the recurrence rate of duodenal ulcer not under maintenance therapy was significantly higher in hyperpg i patients than in normopg i patients, regardless of their smoking habits. only in hyperpg i patients was the recurrence rate in smokers higher than in nonsmokers. patients under maintenance therapy showed similar results. multilogistic regression indicated that hyperpg i had a greater effect than cigarette smoking on ulcer recurrence. these findings indicate that serum pg i levels are not influenced by smoking, and the important characteristic in patients with recurrent duodenal ulcers is the increased serum pg i levels.
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer. thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation. in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures, the success rate of intubation was 91%, and 82% were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored. the mean survival rate was 4.4 months. in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas, 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months. this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis. the overall morbidity rate was 28.1% (18.8% perforation, 6.3% hemorrhage, and 3.1% tracheal obstruction). the overall mortality rate was 18.8%. although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors, endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6% of patients with relief of symptoms, nutritional improvement, and a mean survival time of 4.5 months.
thyroid disease and pregnancy. thyroid disease is common in younger women and may be a factor in reproductive dysfunction. this probably only applies to severe cases of hyper- or hypothyroidism. once adequately treated, neither of these disorders significantly impacts on fertility. the key is to recognize and to treat thyroid disorders in the reproductive-age woman before conception. thyroxine therapy and even antithyroid drug therapy should be continued during pregnancy as necessary. pregnancy is a euthyroid state that is normally maintained by complex changes in thyroid physiology. the fetal and neonatal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid system develops independently, but it may be influenced by thyroid disease in the mother. early pregnancy is characterized by an increase in maternal t4 secretion stimulated by hcg and an increase in tbg, resulting in the elevated total serum t4 in pregnancy. the debate continues as to whether maternal t4 is important in early or late fetal brain development. if so, the physiologic changes in thyroid hormone secretion and transport in early pregnancy would help to ensure that a sufficient amount of thyroid hormone was available. there is new evidence in human subjects that substantial maternal t4 can cross the placenta during pregnancy, and this may be particularly important when fetal thyroid function is compromised as a result of congenital hypothyroidism. maternal and fetal/neonatal outcomes in pregnancy are adversely affected if severe hypothyroidism is undiagnosed or inadequately treated. thyroid function tests should be obtained during gestation in women taking t4 and appropriate dose adjustments should be made for tsh levels outside a normal range. the tsh-receptor blocking antibodies from the mother are a recognized cause of congenital hypothyroidism in the fetus and neonate that can be permanent or transient. if neonatal hypothyroidism is detected through neonatal screening programs, and prompt and adequate t4 replacement therapy is instituted as soon as possible following delivery, subsequent growth and development are usually normal. paradoxically, pregnancy often has a favorable effect on the course of maternal hashimoto's disease, although there is the risk of relapse postpartum. pathophysiologic conditions of hcg secretion such as gestational trophoblastic disease and hyperemesis gravidarum may present as thyrotoxicosis in pregnancy, but the main cause of this syndrome is graves' disease. the mainstay of treatment is antithyroid drugs and either propylthiouracil or methimazole may be used safely. subtotal thyroidectomy, after medical control, is the alternative treatment, but radioiodine ablation is contraindicated.(abstract truncated at 400 words).
initial failure of surgical exploration in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. to determine the causes of failures of cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism, we reviewed 892 patients operated on by one surgeon from 1953 to 1990. twenty-seven patients (3%) remained hypercalcemic or developed hypercalcemia within 6 months of surgery. of these, five patients had one adenoma removed initially; at reoperation, three patients had a second adenoma that was successfully removed, whereas the other two patients had hyperplasia and required subtotal parathyroidectomies. no enlarged parathyroid glands were identified in 22 patients. eventually, six patients became normocalcemic spontaneously, seven patients underwent re-exploration with a successful outcome in all but one case, two patients had ectopic hyperparathyroidism associated with carcinoma elsewhere, and seven patients refused reoperation and remain hypercalcemic. the failure rate of surgical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism can be reduced by systematically exploring all four parathyroid glands. all abnormal parathyroids should be removed with histologic verification. when no abnormal glands are found, localization studies should be performed before re-exploration.
ectatic blood vessels in port-wine stains lack innervation: possible role in pathogenesis. the innervation pattern of port-wine stains was investigated using indirect immunohistochemistry with antibodies to protein gene product 9.5 (pgp 9.5), neuron-specific enolase (nse), calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp), and neurofilament (nf). the pathologically dilated vessels in the middle and deep dermis were found to have defective innervation with only single or no nerve fibers in their vicinity, while other structures in the skin showed a normal density of fibers. nse- and pgp-like immunoreactive (-li) nerve fibers were observed innervating vessels with a normal morphology and other structures in the skin, such as sweat glands and hair follicles, as free nerve endings and in nerve bundles. the nerve bundles were often seen to pass the ectatic vessels without giving off any branches. cgrp-li nerve fibers were detected running toward epidermis, whereas no fibers were found around the ectatic vessels. nf-li fibers were seen innervating normal vessels in dermis, while in relation to the dilated vessels, no or only occasional fibers were observed. the lack of innervation may be of importance for the development of the disease as a result of decreased tonus of the vessels and/or a loss of neuronal trophic factors.
reperfusion adjunctive therapy. the beneficial effects of coronary thrombolytic therapy may be enhanced by certain adjunctive therapies. some of these are of proven value, some appear to offer no benefit in spite of theoretical advantages, and some remain to be evaluated in clinical trials. acetylsalicylic acid markedly enhances the mortality reduction of thrombolytic therapy and should be used routinely. there is a strong theoretical rationale for the use of heparin, but evidence for its benefit exists primarily in small angiographic trials, and convincing clinical benefit has not yet been demonstrated. early intravenous beta-blockers were shown in the prethrombolysis era to confer modest benefit, but extensive data on their adjuvant use with thrombolysis are available from only one trial. intravenous nitrates were demonstrated to reduce mortality in the prethrombolysis era, and are soon to be evaluated in trials employing thrombolytic therapy. the calcium channel blockers, in spite of a variety of theoretical benefits, have proved to be of no value acutely, and in the subacute setting, only diltiazem appears to confer benefit in the subgroup of patients with non-o-wave infarction. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are likely to be of value in survivors of acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction, and benefits observed with acute use in experimental infarction are now being evaluated in clinical trials.
ectopic thyroid tissue in the submandibular region. this report describes an unusual location of ectopic thyroid gland tissue. a growth in the left submandibular area was surgically excised, and the microscopic examination of the specimen revealed thyroid tissue with colloid goiter. because this entity cannot be clinically distinguished from a salivary gland tumor, ectopic thyroid tissue should be considered in the differential diagnosis of swellings involving the submandibular area.
endocarditis in the 80s in a general hospital in auckland, new zealand. the clinical and investigative features of 102 episodes of infective endocarditis were analysed retrospectively. the most frequent presenting symptoms (malaise, fever, sweats, myalgia, weight loss) were non-specific. fever, cardiac murmur, tachycardia, vascular phenomena and a change in mental state were the most common physical signs at admission. anaemia was present in half the episodes and renal and liver dysfunction in about one-third. streptococci (61) and staphylococci (31) were the causative organisms in all but 10 episodes. the commonest predisposing factors were underlying cardiac disease (52 per cent) and a preceding focus of infection (14.6 per cent). left ventricular failure (33 per cent) and focal neurological disease (29 per cent) occurred frequently. valvular surgery was performed in 20 episodes, with two in-hospital deaths. overall hospital mortality was 27.5 per cent and death was most commonly neurological (11/28). a higher mortality was associated with elevated total white blood count, microscopic haematuria, renal or liver dysfunction at admission, s. aureus endocarditis, the development of left ventricular failure or focal neurological disease, age greater than or equal to 60 years and persistence of fever after one week of antibiotic therapy. the absence of both renal dysfunction at admission and subsequent microscopic haematuria identified a group with a very low hospital mortality (4.7 per cent). the three-year mortality of the entire group was 43.5 per cent.
racial and ethnic modifiers of the salt-blood pressure response. the relation between sodium and blood pressure is a centuries-old question. a substantial body of epidemiological and experimental data has accumulated that strongly implicates nacl as having a causal role in the genesis of arterial hypertension. prospective studies that have been performed in diverse populations that have manipulated nacl exposure by diet or infusion have repeatedly documented an nacl pressor effect. further, similar studies in biracial populations have also demonstrated a greater prevalence of "salt sensitivity" in blacks compared with whites. the reasons for this observation are not entirely clear; however, intrinsic or hypertension-induced renal abnormalities that limit natriuretic capacity, reduced na+,k(+)-atpase pump activity, other membrane ion transport disturbances, differential exposure to psychological stressors, greater insulin resistance, and dietary factors (reduced ca+ and k+ intake) have all been suggested as possibly playing a role. salt sensitivity appears to be a widespread phenomenon. however, it is critically important to determine what factors account for racial differences in salt sensitivity. moreover, the prevalence of salt sensitivity in the general population is unknown. current definitions of salt sensitivity are varied and unidirectional. in comparison with bidirectional criteria (blood pressure increase with salt loading and blood pressure decrease with salt restriction), they are probably inadequate to identify salt-sensitive individuals who manifest less extreme blood pressure change after dietary sodium or plasma volume manipulations. more sensitive criteria for diagnosing salt sensitivity will facilitate a better understanding of racial and ethnic differences in the prevalence of salt sensitivity.
decreased local toxicity with subcutaneous diamorphine (heroin): a preliminary report. we report the cases of 5 patients who developed severe local toxicity during the subcutaneous administration of morphine sulphate and hydromorphone hydrochloride. all patients required site changes more frequently than once every 24 h due to redness, swelling, or pain while receiving morphine or hydromorphone. all patients showed prolongation in the duration of sites of infusion once an equianalgesic dose of diamorphine hydrochloride (heroin) was started. no change in pain control or systemic toxicity was detected with diamorphine. these findings suggest that diamorphine could be a useful alternative for patients who develop severe toxicity to subcutaneous morphine or hydromorphone.
circumferential quantitative analysis of planar 201t1 myocardial scintigraphy in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. methodology for the computer analysis of 201t1 myocardial perfusion images has been developed by several laboratories. substantial evidence of the advantage of this approach over visual inspection alone has been reported. the currently available computer analyses use different algorithms to analyze 201t1 kinetics in the myocardium. the authors evaluated and compared two widely used software programs, medical data system (mds): a mean-count profile, and the cedars sinai (cs): a maximal-count profile, of planar 201t1 scintigraphy for their ability to detect coronary artery disease (cad).
iga triggers tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion by monocytes: a study in normal subjects and patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. under endotoxin-free conditions, peripheral blood mononuclear cells and purified monocytes isolated from healthy control subjects and patients with alcoholic cirrhosis disclose elevated tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger rna level and produce tumor necrosis factor alpha in response to stimulation by either soluble polymeric iga or monomeric iga bound to the surface of culture dishes but not by soluble monomeric iga. polymeric iga induces tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion in a dose-dependent fashion. these results suggest that cross-linking of fc alpha receptors on human monocytes induces the messenger rna accumulation and the secretion of the cytotoxic and immunoregulatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha. furthermore, it is shown that lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion by peripheral blood mononuclear cells is synergistically enhanced in the presence of solid phase monomeric iga but not in the presence of either soluble monomeric or polymeric iga. although increased lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion is observed at baseline in alcoholic cirrhotic patients, this synergism is also expressed in this group of patients. these observations could be of pathophysiological relevance in alcoholic cirrhosis because monomeric iga deposits along the liver sinusoids and increased serum levels of polymeric iga are common even in the early stages of this disease.
treatment of renal cell carcinoma by extracorporeal partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic vascular anastomosis. a patient with large left lower pole renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney is presented. the patient was treated by partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic arterial and venous anastomoses. the potential for reducing operative morbidity compared with autotransplantation to the iliac fossa is discussed.
amyloidosis of the small intestine: findings on double-contrast radiographs. the appearance of the small intestinal mucosa on double-contrast barium examinations was studied in 26 patients with proved intestinal amyloidosis. findings included innumerable fine granular densities 1-3 mm in diameter (16 patients), multiple nodular densities 3-4 mm in diameter (four patients), multiple polypoid protrusions 4-10 mm in diameter (three patients), irregularities of kerckring folds (12 patients), and multiple erosions (eight patients). the multiple nodular densities and erosions disappeared after the patients were treated with total parenteral nutrition. the other abnormalities remained unchanged on follow-up examinations. our results indicate that double-contrast radiographic findings of the small intestine in patients with amyloidosis include mucosal abnormalities that vary according to the pathologic type of amyloid deposition.
the occurrence of motor fluctuations in parkinsonian patients treated long term with levodopa: role of early treatment and disease progression. the aim of this study is to evaluate what factors influence the risk of occurrence of motor fluctuations in patients with parkinson's disease (pd) with particular reference to the role of early or delayed introduction of levodopa therapy during the course of the disease. one hundred twenty-five consecutive newly diagnosed patients with pd started levodopa treatment at the time diagnosis and were followed for 2 to 10 years. during follow-up, 60 patients had wearing-off or early morning akinesia. we estimated the cumulative time-dependent risk of motor fluctuation occurrence through a multivariable analysis. the risk was lower for patients with tremor-predominant pd, for those with shorter disease duration prior to levodopa, and for those who were relatively older at levodopa initiation. our results suggest that, as far as motor fluctuations are concerned, disease prognosis is not influenced by early levodopa treatment. these observation support the introduction of levodopa as soon as there is a subjective need for the patients to maintain their level of social and work performance.
prosthetic valves in children and adolescents. the purpose of this paper is to present the short- and long-term results of prosthetic valve replacement in children. during a 7-year period that ended in april 1985, 186 children, ages 1 to 20 years, underwent valve replacement; there were 55 (30%) aortic valve replacements, 95 (51%) mitral valve replacements, and 36 (19%) multiple valve replacements. ninety-four percent of the lesions were rheumatic in origin, 4% were congenital, and 2% were infectious. of 223 valves replaced, 175 (78%) were mechanical valves and 48 (22%) were heterografts; the latter were in the mitral position in all but three patients. surgical mortality rates were 3.6%, 4.2%, and 19.4% respectively for aortic valve, mitral valve, and multiple valve replacements. five-year actuarial survival was 91% for aortic valve replacement, 82% for mitral valve replacement and 60% for multiple valve replacement. major events included reoperation in 34 (with three deaths), progressive myocardial failure that led to death in 10, sudden unexpected death in two, thromboembolic complications in 19 (death in five), subacute bacterial endocarditis in five (two deaths), and bleeding that required transfusion in two patients. five-year complication-free actuarial survival rates were 83% for aortic valve replacement, 63% for mitral valve replacement, and 57% for multiple valve replacement. the respective five-year complication-free survival rates were 83%, 48%, and 43%. significant morbidity and mortality rates are associated with valve replacement. therefore every effort should be made to preserve the native valve by plastic reparative procedures. when prosthetic replacement of mitral valve is contemplated, our data would suggest that heterografts should not be inserted in children 15 years of age or younger, although heterografts may be used in children over 15 years of age with the expectation of valve survival comparable to that of mechanical valves. when complications that are associated with anticoagulant therapy were reviewed, platelet inhibiting drugs seem quite satisfactory in patients with aortic valve replacement; patients with mitral valve replacement seem to require warfarin therapy, and warfarin must be used in patients with multiple valve replacement to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications.
an immunohistochemical study of pi class glutathione s-transferase expression in normal human tissue. glutathione s-transferases (gsts), a family of isoenzymes that play an important role in protecting cells from cytotoxic and carcinogenic agents, can be separated by biochemical and immunologic characteristics into three distinct classes named alpha, mu, and pi. previous studies have indicated that there is marked heterogeneity in the expression of different gst isoenzymes in different normal and malignant tissues. to better understand the regulation of the human pi class glutathione s-transferase isoenzyme (gst-pi), the tissue distribution of this protein wa studied by an immunohistochemical technique using an anti-gst-pi polyclonal antibody in normal paraffin-embedded human tissues. these studies indicate that there is a broad distribution of gst-pi in normal human tissues and establish a precise localization within the different organs studied. gst-pi was expressed predominantly in normal epithelial cells of the urinary, digestive, and respiratory tracts, suggesting a possible role for gst-pi in detoxication and elimination of toxic substances. previous studies have indicated that gst-pi and the putative drug efflux pump p-glycoprotein are both overexpressed in multidrug-resistant human breast cancer cells and in xenobiotic resistant preneoplastic rat hyperplastic liver nodules. results from this study indicate that there are also similarities between the normal tissue distribution gst-pi and that previously reported for mammalian p-glycoprotein, particularly in secretory epithelia. this finding suggests that these two gene products, which have been implicated in the development of resistance to cytotoxic drugs, may be coregulated in normal and malignant cells.
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals. forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids), were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections (cdc group iv c, n = 28), cancers (iv d, n = 10), or limited or no symptoms (groups ii, iii, iv a, or iv b, n = 7). the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently. more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group. patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases.
a phase i study of 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin. clinical pharmacology and pharmacokinetics. a phase i study of intravenous (iv) bolus 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin (pirarubicin) was done in 55 patients in good performance status with refractory tumors. twenty-six had minimal prior therapy (good risk), 23 had extensive prior therapy (poor risk), and six had renal and/or hepatic dysfunction. a total of 167 courses at doses of 15 to 70 mg/m2 were evaluable. maximum tolerated dose in good-risk patients was 70 mg/m2, and in poor-risk patients, 60 mg/m2. the dose-limiting toxic effect was transient noncumulative granulocytopenia. granulocyte nadir was on day 14 (range, 4-22). less frequent toxic effects included thrombocytopenia, anemia, nausea, mild alopecia, phlebitis, and mucositis. myelosuppression was more in patients with hepatic dysfunction. pharmacokinetic analyses in 21 patients revealed pirarubicin plasma t 1/2 alpha (+/- se) of 2.5 +/- 0.85 minutes, t beta 1/2 of 25.6 +/- 6.5 minutes, and t 1/2 gamma of 23.6 +/- 7.6 hours. the area under the curve was 537 +/- 149 ng/ml x hours, volume of distribution (vd) 3504 +/- 644 l/m2, and total clearance (clt) was 204 + 39.3 l/hour/m2. adriamycinol, doxorubicin, adriamycinone, and tetrahydropyranyladriamycinol were the metabolites detected in plasma and the amount of doxorubicin was less than or equal to 10% of the total metabolites. urinary excretion of pirarubicin in the first 24 hours was less than or equal to 10%. activity was noted in mesothelioma, leiomyosarcoma, and basal cell carcinoma. the recommended starting dose for phase ii trials is 60 mg/m2 iv bolus every 3 weeks.
comparison of collagen propeptides as growth markers in children with inflammatory bowel disease. the serum concentrations of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of type i procollagen and the amino-terminal propeptide of type iii procollagen as biochemical markers of growth activity were compared in 46 children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease. significant correlations were noted between growth velocity and type i procollagen (r = 0.65; p less than 0.001) and type iii procollagen concentrations (r = 0.64; p less than 0.001). although the serum concentration of type i procollagen was generally about 15 times greater than that of type iii, the respective serum concentrations were highly correlated (r = 0.66; p less than 0.001) at all growth velocities. the use of daily corticosteroid therapy was associated with significantly lower concentrations of both propeptides (p less than 0.01) than was alternate-day or no corticosteroid therapy, respectively. children with growth arrest (0.0 cm/mo) had type i and type iii procollagen concentrations similar to those found in adults. these observations indicate that the serum concentrations of both collagen propeptides reflect growth activity in children with inflammatory bowel disease and suggest that routine measurement of collagen propeptides may have clinical value in monitoring normal and abnormal growth. the data suggest that the measurement of one propeptide does not offer an advantage over the other.
national education programs working group report on the management of patients with hypertension and high blood cholesterol. cardiovascular diseases are responsible for nearly one of every two deaths in the united states, and have been estimated to cost more than $127 billion annually. epidemiologic data have shown that persons with fewer or lower levels of the risk factors for cardiovascular disease are less likely to have a cardiovascular event. in addition, the greater the level of any single risk factor, the greater is the chance of incurring disease. moreover, a combination of risk factors creates a synergistic effect, further increasing risk. conversely, reducing the number and level of risk factors prevents death and disability from cardiovascular diseases. this report addresses the management of patients with several cardiovascular risk factors, placing a special emphasis on hypertension and high blood cholesterol. nonpharmacologic therapy, in the form of proper diet, exercise, and smoking cessation, is the foundation for management of both hypertension and high blood cholesterol. clinicians should use these nondrug measures as definitive or adjunctive therapy. pharmacologic agents can be very beneficial in managing the risks imposed by elevated levels of blood pressure or blood cholesterol. in selecting medications, it is important to weight their benefits, costs, and potential untoward effects. clinicians must consider these issues in managing patients with several risk factors but should not avoid managing any risk factor or quickly dismiss any particular mode of therapy simply because of the potential for adverse effects.
lack of change in neurochemical markers during the postepileptic phase of intrahippocampal tetanus toxin syndrome in rats. the chronic epileptic syndrome induced by injecting tetanus toxin into rat hippocampus causes functional changes that essentially are permanent, outlasting the period of active seizures by at least 1 year. these long-term changes have been characterized by an impaired performance on a range of behavioral tasks, which in turn have been associated with a physiologic depression of hippocampal evoked responses but not with any discernible histopathology. in the present study, we examined the hippocampi of rats in the postseizure phase of the tetanus toxin model and observed no significant changes in the concentration of neurochemical markers for six neurotransmitters. therefore, the long-term reduction in hippocampal excitability cannot be attributed to any major loss of afferents or hippocampal neurons using aspartate, acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba), glutamate, norepinephrine (ne), or serotonin as their transmitters.
the association of elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine with progression of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. plasma homocyst(e)ine (the sum of free and bound homocysteine, homocystine, and the mixed disulfide homocysteine-cysteine, expressed as homocysteine) levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in 214 patients with symptomatic (claudication, rest pain, gangrene, amputation) lower extremity arterial occlusive disease and/or symptomatic (stroke, cerebral transient ischemic attacks) cerebral vascular disease and in 103 control persons. mean plasma homocyst(e)ine was significantly higher in patients than in controls (14.37 +/- 6.89 nmol/ml vs 10.10 +/- 2.16, p less than 0.05). thirty-nine percent of patients (83 of 214) had plasma homocyst(e)ine values greater than control mean + 2 standard deviations. plasma homocyst(e)ine values were contrasted to age, male sex, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, renal failure, and plasma cholesterol. no difference was found in the incidence and/or level of any of these risk factors when patients with normal plasma homocyst(e)ine were compared to those with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine, both by univariate and multivariate analysis. patients with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine were more likely to demonstrate clinical progression of lower extremity disease and of coronary artery disease, but not of cerebral vascular disease than were patients with normal plasma homocyst(e)ine, and the rate of progression was more rapid (p = 0.002). progression of lower extremity disease as assessed in the vascular laboratory was also more common in patients with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine (p = 0.01). we conclude that elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine is an independent risk factor for symptomatic lower extremity disease or cerebral vascular disease or both. symptomatic patients with lower extremity disease and with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine also appear to have more rapid progression of disease.
phenotypic heterogeneity of spinal muscular atrophy mapping to chromosome 5q11.2-13.3 (sma 5q). we made phenotypic analysis of 14 families with spinal muscular atrophy (sma) linking to chromosome 5q11.2-13.3 (sma 5q), and 2 that may not map to this locus, to assess clinical symptoms among sma families known to result from mutation at the identical gene/locus. although the current number of families is still small, the correlation of clinical phenotype and molecular genotype supports 2 observations. first, sma mutations at the 5q locus present with a broad continuum of clinical abnormalities, and 2nd, the single clearly unlinked family presents with an unusual phenotype characterized by relatively late onset and early death. thus, there are as yet no unambiguous cases of typical sma families that are clearly unlinked to the locus at 5q-ie, no clear cases of nonallelic heterogeneity. analysis of sma 5q families supports the view that, with certain exceptions, there is little phenotypic intrafamilial variability. when families were ranked by severity of disease there was a strong correlation with age of onset. onset within the 1st few months was associated with early death, but not in all cases. with rare exception, onset after 1 year of age was associated with less severe disease and greater longevity.
pouch outlet obstruction following vertical ring gastroplasty for morbid obesity. we have experienced a 14% (38 of 264 patients) incidence of pouch outlet obstruction following vertical ring gastroplasty. initial management consisted of dilatation in 34 of 38 patients (94%). ten of 34 patients (29%) were spared reoperation by 1 to 3 dilatations. non-passage of an endoscope through the stoma immediately following dilatation predicted the need for surgery; 4 of 11 patients (36%) with passage underwent reoperation compared with 17 of 20 patients (85%) without passage (p less than 0.02). surgical findings included "tipped bands" in 9 of 28 patients (32%); fibrous reaction to the band in 10 of 28 patients (36%); adhesions with angulation of the pouch in 2 of 28 patients (7%); and no identifiable cause of obstruction in 7 of 28 patients (25%). surgical therapy consisted of removal of the band (2 patients), removal of the band and replacement with a similar length or larger band (20 patients), "tacking" the band in the horizontal position (4 patients), or conversion to a roux-y bypass (2 patients). the first three options were associated with an unacceptably high rate of weight regain and/or continued symptoms, whereas the last-named procedure met with good success.
timing and topography of cerebral blood flow, aura, and headache during migraine attacks. ten years of study has resulted in considerable but fragmented knowledge about regional cerebral blood flow in migraine with aura (classic migraine). in the present study, the number of repeatedly studied patients (n = 63) was large enough to determine statistically significant sequences of events and statistically significant spatial relations. the first observable event was a decrease of regional cerebral blood flow posteriorly in one cerebral hemisphere. further development of this pathological process was accompanied by the aura symptoms. thereafter headache occurred while regional cerebral blood flow remained decreased. during the headache phase, regional cerebral blood flow gradually changed from abnormally low to abnormally high without apparent change in headache. in some patients headache disappeared while regional cerebral blood flow remained increased. although regional cerebral blood flow reduction and aura symptoms in the great majority of patients were unilateral, one-third had bilateral headache. unilateral headache usually localized to the side on which regional cerebral blood flow was reduced and from which the aura symptoms originated (i.e., aura symptoms were perceived to occur contralaterally but presumably originated in the hypoperfused hemisphere). our results suggest a simple model for migraine attacks: a pathological disturbance in one cerebral hemisphere causes the aura symptoms and after a time delay, it also causes the headache by stimulating local vascular nociceptors. bilateral headache caused by a unilateral cerebral disturbance may be explained by recent neuroanatomical and neurophysiological findings.
potential role of the tissue renin-angiotensin system in the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure. the circulating renin-angiotensin system (ras) plays an important role in the maintenance of cardiovascular homeostasis. it has recently been demonstrated that endogenous ras exist in target tissues that are important in cardiovascular regulation. this article reviews the multiple effects of angiotensin ii in target tissues, the evidence for the presence of functional tissue ras and the data that suggest a role for these tissue ras in the pathophysiology of heart failure. activation of circulating neurohormones is predictive of worsened survival in heart failure; however, cardiac and renal tissue ras activities are also increased in the compensated stage of heart failure, when plasma renin-angiotensin activity is normal. it is hypothesized that the plasma ras maintains circulatory homeostasis during acute cardiac decompensation, while changes in tissue ras contribute to homeostatic responses during chronic sustained cardiac impairment. this concept of different functions of circulating and tissue ras in the pathophysiology of heart failure may have important pharmacologic implications.
glomerular iga deposits in patients with celiac disease. glomerular immunopathology was studied in 25 patients with newly diagnosed celiac disease. none had clinical signs of renal disease. glomeruli were obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. the specimens were processed and studied by indirect immunofluorescence for immunoglobulins and complement. mesangial iga was found in 8 of the patients. it occurred occasionally together with slight igg or igm, but c3 was not seen in these patients. iga-class circulating immune complexes (cic), antireticulin antibodies (ara), antigliadin antibodies (aga), and rheumatoid factor (rf) occurred significantly more often in the patients with mesangial iga than in the 17 patients having no mesangial iga. the patients with mesangial iga also had significantly higher mean levels of serum iga, iga-ara and iga-aga than those without. the results suggest that glomerular mesangial deposits of iga occur frequently in untreated celiac disease and that they are in some way associated with circulating iga-class antibodies and immune complexes. in this situation iga seems to be deposited without being able to induce clinically overt glomerulonephritis, a circumstance that may be related to the lack of complement in the deposits.
effects of nimodipine on infarct size and cerebral acidosis after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. the objective of this study was to determine the effect of nimodipine on infarct development and local brain ph after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. female fischer-344 rats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery by electrocoagulation. after 6, 12, or 24 hours, brains were frozen, and infarct size, degree of edema formation, and local brain ph were quantified by standard histology or the umbelliferone technique, respectively. in control rats, cortical infarct size was increased from 29.5 microliters at 6 hours to 72.5 microliters at 24 hours after vessel occlusion. in striatum only, an insignificant increase from 15.2 to 24.7 microliters in infarct volume was observed during this period. edema increased from 7% to 22% in cortical and from 4% to 39% in the striatal infarct areas during this time. nimodipine (0.1 mg/kg s.c.), given 45 minutes before and again 8 and 16 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion, did not alter infarct size at 6 hours but considerably improved outcome at later times. edema formation was lower at 12 hours in the group treated with the calcium antagonist (p less than 0.05). by contrast, effects on local brain ph were seen as early as 6 hours after the vessel occlusion. nimodipine greatly reduced the areas exhibiting the lowest ph values beyond ph 6.0 (p less than 0.05). similar effects by nimodipine on brain ph were observed in the 12-hour series, whereas at 24 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion, a shift to more alkalotic values was noted with no overt differences between control and drug-treated groups.
avoiding interpretive pitfalls when assessing arrhythmia suppression after myocardial infarction: insights from the long-term observations of the placebo-treated patients in the cardiac arrhythmia pilot study (caps) the cardiac arrhythmia pilot study (caps) was a 1 year trial that analyzed the safety and effectiveness of arrhythmia suppression in 502 patients surviving acute myocardial infarction who had greater than or equal to 10 ventricular premature depolarizations/h or greater than or equal to 5 runs of ventricular tachycardia on a holter recording obtained 6 to 60 days after the acute infarction. because 100 of these patients received placebo in a double-blind fashion for 1 year, a comprehensive objective analysis was performed of spontaneous arrhythmia changes based on real data rather than statistical estimates. in the caps placebo group, 19% developed some serious clinical event in 1 year (death, heart failure, proarrhythmia) that could likely be attributable to antiarrhythmic drug toxicity. a significant reduction in the frequency of ventricular premature depolarizations (p = 0.004) occurred in the first few weeks of "therapy" with a further significant (p less than 0.04) decrease between 3 to 12 months. after initiation of placebo antiarrhythmic therapy, 27% had "apparent ventricular premature depolarization suppression" (greater than or equal to 70% reduction) after one holter recording evaluation and nearly half (48%) after six holter recordings to assess suppression were performed.
terminal cancer care and patients' preference for place of death: a prospective study. objective--to assess the preference of terminally ill patients with cancer for their place of final care. design--prospective study of randomly selected patients with cancer from hospital and the community who were expected to die within a year. patients expected to live less than two months were interviewed at two week intervals; otherwise patients were interviewed monthly. their main carer was interviewed three months after the patient's death. setting--district general hospital, hospices, and patients' homes. main outcome measure--stated preferred place of final care; actual place of death; reason for final hospital admission for those in hospital; community care provision required for home care. results--of 98 patients approached, 84 (86%) agreed to be interviewed, of whom 70 (83%) died during the study and 59 (84%) stated a preferred place of final care: 34 (58%) wished to die at home given existing circumstances, 12 (20%) in hospital, 12 (20%) in a hospice, and one (2%) elsewhere. their own home was the preferred place of care for 17 (94%) of the patients who died there, whereas of the 32 patients who died in hospital 22 (69%) had stated a preference to die elsewhere. had circumstances been more favourable 67% (41) of patients would have preferred to die at home, 16% (10) in hospital, and 15% (9) in hospice. conclusion--with a limited increase in community care 50% more patients with cancer could be supported to die at home, as they and their carers would prefer.
gynecomastia. a bothersome but readily treatable problem. although breast enlargement in boys and men can cause both psychological and physical distress, the disorder is rarely serious and is readily treatable. several factors can lead to the estrogenic excess that causes growth of breast tissue. dr jacobs describes a patient with gynecomastia related to cirrhosis of the liver who responded promptly to a brief course of tamoxifen citrate therapy.
regulation of expression of m, b, and mitochondrial creatine kinase mrnas in the left ventricle after pressure overload in rats. pressure overload of the left ventricle induces synthesis of creatine kinase isoenzymes. to determine whether this response is associated with an altered pattern of creatine kinase gene expression, we induced arterial hypertension in rats by suprarenal aortic banding. after 4 days, left ventricular myocardium from hypertensive (n = 7) and normotensive, sham-operated (n = 5) rats was analyzed for isoenzyme activities by chromatography; m and b creatine kinase subunit protein by western blot; and m, b, and mitochondrial creatine kinase mrna by northern blot. although total creatine kinase activity increased in hypertensive (1,096 +/- 214 iu/g left ventricle) compared with normotensive rats (648 +/- 81 iu/g left ventricle, p less than 0.01), the relative proportions of the cytoplasmic and mitochondrial isoenzymes did not change. the mass of m and b subunits increased 1.9- and 2.7-fold, respectively, in hypertensive compared with control rats. similarly, the mrna for m and b subunits as well as mitochondrial creatine kinase increased 2.6-, 1.6-, and 1.8-fold, respectively, in hypertensive rats compared with control rats. thus, increased energy requirements in acute pressure overload are met by generalized induction of creatine kinase mrna and subunit protein and not by an isoenzyme switch.
hypertension: racial differences. racial differences in the prevalence, course, and pathophysiologic characteristics of hypertension in black and white populations are reviewed. accumulated epidemiologic data indicate that the prevalence of hypertension among blacks is greater than that among whites in almost all age- and sex-matched groups. hypertensive blacks have a higher incidence of left ventricular dysfunction, stroke, and renal damage, but a lower incidence of ischemic heart disease, than do hypertensive whites. a significant pathophysiologic difference between blacks and whites is salt sensitivity; normotensive, as well as hypertensive, blacks tend to be salt sensitive. blacks also tend to have lower renin levels than do whites, while dopamine response to a salt load is diminished among blacks as compared with whites. these differences and others lead to the recommendation that hypertension among blacks should be managed initially with salt restriction; if dietary control is insufficient, administration of an antihypertensive agent with 24-hour efficacy, which lowers vascular peripheral resistance, promotes sodium excretion, and potentially improves renal hemodynamics, is recommended. a calcium channel blocker may satisfy these requirements.
immunolocation of tnf-alpha/cachectin in human melanoma cells: studies on co-cultivated malignant melanoma. we have investigated the ability of metastatic cells to produce the macrophage cytokine, tnf-alpha/cachectin, as these cells have macrophage-like properties such as infiltration and migration. we looked for tnf-alpha/cachectin in three tumor cell lines derived from human malignant melanomas and six co-cultivated malignant melanomas derived, in vitro, from these three cell lines plus angioma fibroblasts. immunohistochemistry with an anti-tnf-alpha/cachectin monoclonal antibody showed that tnf-alpha/cachectin was produced by two of the three parent melanoma cell lines. all the tumor cells in both the co-cultivated malignant melanomas and their in vitro tumorous nodules produced tnf-alpha/cachectin, even those derived from the melanoma cell line, which originally did not. the results clearly show that tnf-alpha/cachectin can be produced by non-hematopoietic tumor cells. a co-cultivated tumor model prepared from other types of human tumor cell lines promises to provide a useful tool for exploring the relationship between tnf-alpha/cachectin and oncogenesis.
factors associated with recurrent myocardial infarction within one year after acute myocardial infarction. in a large population of patients (n = 3666) who were discharged from the hospital after acute myocardial infarction and followed up for 1 year, factors associated with recurrent nonfatal (n = 171) or fatal (n = 74) infarction were identified. also, the effects of combining various end points (recurrent nonfatal or fatal infarction and other cardiac death) in multivariate analyses, a practice common in many small studies that evaluate the predictive-value of various treatments or special tests, was examined. in univariate analyses, patients with nonfatal recurrent infarction did not differ with respect to age or gender from infarct-free survivors, but they more often had a history of previous myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, angina pectoris, and diabetes; more severe pulmonary congestion was present on chest x-ray during the admission, and a non-q wave index infarction was more frequent. patients with either a fatal or nonfatal recurrent infarction had more angina pectoris during follow-up (55% to 60%) compared with 27% in event-free survivors and 31% in patients who died of other cardiac causes in whom this factor could be assessed before death. in multivariate analyses, historical and clinical prognostic factors were ranked differently for fatal or nonfatal reinfarction and other cardiac causes of death; angina pectoris at follow-up was highly related to recurrent infarction (fatal or nonfatal), along with a history of diabetes, and a non-q wave index infarction. these factors were not independently related to other causes of cardiac death.
sudden death due to right ventricular cardiomyopathy. a 21-year-old man died suddenly at a small party. he had had no clinical signs of cardiac disease except for a slightly abnormal electrocardiogram (occasional premature ventricular contractions) since he was 15 years of age. autopsy examination revealed cardiomegaly (469 g), with right atrial and ventricular dilatation. the right ventricular myocardium was massively replaced with adipose tissue, and there was one isolated fatty lesion in the right side of the ventricular septum. there were no congenital malformations such as a septal defect or valvular deformity. histologically, muscular fibers remaining in the right ventricular wall showed neither degenerative nor inflammatory changes. an isolated lesion of the ventricular septum consisted of almost complete replacement of the muscle bundles with adipose tissue. such a pathologic condition has recently been termed right ventricular cardiomyopathy. postmortem examination is necessary to make a definite diagnosis of the disease, because in most adult cases of the disease, sudden death occurs before there have been any critical signs.
human t-cell leukemia virus type i infection as an oncogenic and prognostic risk factor in cervical and vaginal carcinoma. the seroprevalence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i) antibody in 6701 healthy females and 226 women with gynecologic malignancies, all living in an adult t-cell leukemia-endemic area in southwestern japan, was investigated to determine whether htlv-i infection was a risk factor influencing oncogenesis and prognosis. the seroprevalences in cervical carcinoma patients younger than 59 years and in vaginal carcinoma patients of all ages were significantly higher than in age-matched healthy controls. the ratios of observed to expected htlv-i seroprevalence in patients younger than 59 with cervical carcinoma and in vaginal carcinoma patients were 2.92 and 7.36, respectively. among the patients with cervical carcinoma or vaginal carcinoma, the tumor recurrence rate in htlv-i carriers was significantly higher than that in htlv-i seronegative patients. our results suggest that htlv-i infection may be oncogenic and may affect the prognosis in some patients with cervical or vaginal carcinoma.
prospective payment system and impairment at discharge. the 'quicker-and-sicker' story revisited since the introduction of the prospective payment system (pps), anecdotal evidence has accumulated that patients are leaving the hospital "quicker and sicker." we developed valid measures of discharge impairment and measured these levels in a nationally representative sample of patients with one of five conditions prior to and following the pps implementation. instability at discharge (important clinical problems usually first occurring prior to discharge) predicted the likelihood of postdischarge deaths. at 90 days postdischarge, 16% of patients discharged unstable were dead vs 10% of patients discharged stable. after the pps introduction, instability increased primarily among patients discharged home. prior to the pps, 10% of patients discharged home were unstable; after the pps was implemented, 15% were discharged unstable, a 43% relative change. efforts to monitor the effect of this increase in discharge instability on health should be implemented.
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups. in practice, some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes. therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems. in this article, doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension, namely, left ventricular hypertrophy, hyperlipidemia, noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, renal insufficiency, pheochromocytoma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, peripheral vascular disease, and smoking. doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension, and the results of relevant studies are discussed.
selection of patients with stage b prostate cancer for radical prostatectomy. there are several areas of concern in dealing with clinical stage b disease. first, understaging is common. second, recognition of extension into the seminal vesicles is important. third, the patient's predicted life expectancy must be taken into account. moreover, even clinically localized prostate cancer may have metastasized, and the need for surgical staging by lymph node dissection has been a significant factor in the authors' preference for radical retropubic rather than radical perineal prostatectomy. neither of the two serum markers in clinical use is an absolute predictor of stage. analysis of tumor ploidy may prove useful, and transrectal ultrasound warrants further study. in the elderly patient, the urologist certainly may elect to monitor the tumor without definitely deciding on operative versus conservative treatment.
initial therapy of patients with wilson's disease with tetrathiomolybdate. patients with wilson's disease who present with acute neurological symptoms often become clinically worse when initially treated with penicillamine. other available anticopper drug therapies do not appear to offer a solution to this treatment problem. we are developing and evaluating a new drug, ammonium tetrathiomolybdate for this purpose. theoretically, tetrathiomolybdate has optimal properties, including an immediate blockade of copper absorption and the property of forming complexes with copper in the blood, rendering the copper nontoxic. in this article, we present results from six patients treated with tetrathiomolybdate for up to 8 weeks as initial therapy. none of the five patients who had presented with acute neurological symptoms worsened. also presented are methods of assay, preliminary stability studies, and methods of evaluating therapeutic end points with respect to copper metabolism.
accuracy of exercise electrocardiography in detecting physiologically significant coronary arterial lesions. the accuracy of exercise electrocardiography in detecting a physiologically significant coronary artery stenosis has been assessed previously by comparing the exercise test with a coronary arteriogram. the inherent inaccuracy of visually determined percent diameter stenosis measurements might have lead to the conclusion that the exercise electrocardiogram was less accurate than it truly was. to determine the accuracy of the exercise electrocardiography in detecting a physiologically significant coronary stenosis, we studied 40 patients with one-vessel, one-lesion coronary artery disease, a normal resting electrocardiogram, and no hypertrophy or prior infarction. each patient underwent exercise electrocardiography (bruce protocol) that was interpreted as abnormal if the st segment developed 0.1-mv or greater depression 80 msec after the j point. the physiological significance of each coronary stenosis was assessed by measuring of coronary flow reserve (peak divided by resting blood flow velocity) in the stenotic artery using a doppler catheter and intracoronary papaverine (normal, 3.5 or greater peak/resting velocity). the percent diameter and percent area stenosis produced by each lesion were determined using quantitative angiography (brown/dodge method). of the 17 patients with reduced coronary flow reserve (3.5 or greater peak/resting blood flow velocity) in the stenotic artery, 14 had an abnormal exercise electrocardiogram (sensitivity, 0.82; 95% confidence interval, 0.70-0.94). conversely, 20 of 23 patients with normal coronary flow reserves had normal exercise tests (specificity, 0.87; 95% confidence interval, 0.77-0.97). the exercise electrocardiogram was abnormal in each of 11 patients with markedly reduced coronary flow reserve (less than 2.5 peak/resting velocity) and in three of six patients with moderately reduced reserve (2.5-3.4 peak/resting velocity). the products of systolic blood pressure and heart rate at peak exercise were significantly correlated with coronary reserve in patients with truly abnormal exercise tests. in comparison, the sensitivity (0.61; 95% confidence interval, 0.46-0.76) and specificity (0.73; 95% confidence interval, 0.60-0.86) of exercise electrocardiography in detecting a 60% or greater diameter stenosis may be significantly lower (p less than 0.05). exercise electrocardiography, therefore, was a good predictor of the physiological significance (assessed by coronary flow reserve) of a coronary stenosis in patients with a normal resting electrocardiogram and no hypertrophy or prior infarction. its value in a broader and larger patient population will require further study. these results, however, underscore the importance of a physiological gold standard in assessing the accuracy of noninvasive studies for detecting coronary artery disease.
clot-trapper device for transjugular thrombectomy from the inferior vena cava. the clot-trapper device for transjugular thrombectomy was used in 10 dogs with acute thrombosis and two dogs with chronic thrombosis. in eight of these animals, the clots were trapped with the clot-trapper device, then a mechanical thrombectomy device was used to destroy the clots. in 10 animals, including eight with in vitro thrombi and two with in situ thrombi, thrombi were efficiently trapped with the clot-trapper device. in two animals, pulmonary embolism occurred because of a discrepancy between the diameter of the inferior vena cava and the diameter of the bag opening. after increasing the size of the loop to match the diameter of the inferior vena cava, trapping of all thrombi was possible in both experiments (acute and chronic thrombosis). the clot-trapper device, in conjunction with an embolectomy balloon catheter and/or a mechanical thrombectomy device, facilitates the removal of thrombi from the inferior vena cava and iliac veins.
prevalence of raynaud phenomenon in the adult population of south carolina. a prevalence estimate for raynaud phenomenon among adult residents of south carolina was based on data obtained from respondents in a statewide health survey, followed by face-to-face interviews and clinical screening for raynaud phenomenon, using a screening procedure developed by the authors. the survey obtained 5246 personal interviews from a probability sample of over 3000 households, and 494 survey subjects participated in the clinical screening. the prevalence estimates and their standard errors were computed using survey case weights, design-based estimation, and logistic modelling techniques. the prevalence of raynaud phenomenon among adult residents of south carolina was determined to be 3.5%, with a standard error of 0.6%. prevalence was higher for females (4.3%, se = 0.7%) than for males (2.7%, se = 0.6%). these figures are much lower than most estimates in the existing literature on raynaud phenomenon.
clinical and manometric aspects of diffuse esophageal spasm in a cohort of subjects evaluated for dysphagia and/or chest pain. manometric criteria for diffuse esophageal spasm have recently been restated. in this study, a cohort of 358 subjects was evaluated in a gastrointestinal motility laboratory for dysphagia and/or chest pain. applying the recently proposed criteria of richter and castell, 18 subjects (5%) were diagnosed as having des. dysphagia was the major complaint (89%), while 44% of patients complained of chest pain and 33% of both symptoms. all patients shared more than 30% simultaneous contractions after wet swallows interspersed with normal peristaltic sequences. associated manometric findings were repetitive (greater than 3 peaks) contractions (67%), high-amplitude contractions (33%), spontaneous activity (22%), prolonged duration (11%), and lower esophageal sphincter abnormalities (5%). radiology disclosed significant abnormalities in only 27% of des patients.
marfanoid children. etiologic heterogeneity and cardiac findings. the clinical, cardiac, and echocardiographic test results of 20 children with marfanoid features are reviewed. fifteen were diagnosed as having marfan syndrome, two had "possible" marfan syndrome, and three had other diagnoses. on first evaluation, eight patients with marfan syndrome (53%) had mitral regurgitation and none had aortic regurgitation. echocardiography showed aortic root enlargement in 12 (80%) of 15 patients and mitral valve prolapse in 12 (80%) of 15. none had a normal echocardiogram. at follow-up examination, one patient had developed aortic root enlargement, and one patient, mitral valve prolapse. thus, although aortic root enlargement is usually present in early childhood in patients with marfan syndrome, it is not considered specific because in this study it also occurred in one child with alport's syndrome and in one with marfanoid features. four patients with aortic root enlargement were treated with propranolol and their echocardiograms showed no further increase in the aortic root diameter for several years. we recommend echocardiography in the diagnosis and routine management of children in whom marfan syndrome is suspected.
treatment of chronic tinea pedis (athlete's foot type) with topical terbinafine. twenty-seven patients with chronic tinea pedis, athlete's foot type, were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind trial of topical treatment with terbinafine 1% cream versus its vehicle (placebo). patients were examined weekly during 4 weeks of twice-daily treatment and at follow-up 2 weeks after the conclusion of therapy. no adverse events were reported in either treatment group. drug efficacy was evaluated in 22 patients, of whom nine (41%) were treated with terbinafine and 13 (59%) with placebo. analysis of combined mycologic and clinical results showed that terbinafine was significantly more effective than placebo at the end of therapy (78% vs zero) and at the 2-week follow-up (89% vs zero) (p less than or equal to 0.001 at both intervals.
late rupture of a superior intercostal artery following repair of aortic coarctation. having had surgical repair of aortic coarctation at the age of 12 years, and re-operation at the age of 19 years for stenosis at the site of the previous repair, a 29 years old man presented as an emergency with a 24 hour history of interscapular pain, haemoptysis and collapse. at thoracotomy he was found to have a ruptured superior intercostal artery which was ligated. spontaneous rupture of an intercostal artery has not been previously recorded.
association between neuroepithelial tumor and multiple intestinal polyposis (turcot's syndrome): report of a case and critical analysis of the literature. we report a case of association of a brain tumor with multiple intestinal polyposis (turcot's syndrome) and offer a critical analysis of the relevant literature with a view to revising the classification of the syndrome in relation to familial multiple polyposis and gardner's syndrome. for this purpose, we considered only cases of intestinal polyposis associated with a primary neuroepithelial tumor (medulloblastoma, glioma, or glioblastoma) as originally described by turcot. differences emerged, depending on the central nervous system tumor type, which suggests that this neoplastic association may be classified as two distinct syndromes.
patterns of resource consumption in medical intensive care intensive care is being scrutinized as a major factor in increasing health care costs. we examined 404 consecutive admissions to the medical icus at a university medical center to study patterns of consumption of icu resources and the proportion of resources used by patients admitted for monitoring only. we found a skewed distribution of icu resource consumption, with the "high-cost" 8 percent using as many icu resources as the "low-cost" 92 percent. forty-one percent of admissions did not receive acute icu treatments, but these admissions consumed less than 10 percent of icu resources. reducing the number of patients admitted for monitoring will have a relatively small impact on hospital charges. since over 70 percent of the high-cost patients died, improved understanding of prognosis and better physician-patient communication may substantially reduce the proportion of critical care resources expended on futile treatment.
thallium reinjection after stress-redistribution imaging. does 24-hour delayed imaging after reinjection enhance detection of viable myocardium? background. thallium reinjection immediately after conventional stress-redistribution imaging improves the detection of viable myocardium, as many myocardial regions with apparently "irreversible" thallium defects on standard 3-4-hour redistribution images manifest enhanced thallium uptake after reinjection. because the 10-minute period between reinjection and imaging may be too short, the present study was designed to determine whether 24-hour imaging after thallium reinjection provides additional information regarding myocardial viability beyond that obtained by imaging shortly after reinjection. methods and results. we studied 50 patients with chronic stable coronary artery disease undergoing exercise thallium tomography, radionuclide angiography, and coronary arteriography. immediately after the 3-4-hour redistribution images were obtained, 1 mci thallium was injected at rest, and images were reacquired at 10 minutes and 24 hours after reinjection. the stress, redistribution, reinjection, and 24-hour images were then analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively. of the 127 abnormal myocardial regions on the stress images, 55 had persistent defects on redistribution images by qualitative analysis, of which 25 (45%) demonstrated improved thallium uptake after reinjection. at the 24-hour study, 23 of the 25 regions (92%) with previously improved thallium uptake by reinjection showed no further improvement. similarly, of the 30 regions determined to have irreversible defects after reinjection, 29 (97%) remained irreversible on 24-hour images. these findings were confirmed by the quantitative analysis. the mean normalized thallium activity in regions with enhanced thallium activity after reinjection increased from 57 +/- 13% on redistribution studies to 70 +/- 14% after reinjection but did not change at 24 hours (71 +/- 14%). in regions with irreversible defects that were unaltered by reinjection, mean regional thallium activity did not differ from the reinjection to the 24-hour studies (57 +/- 17% and 58 +/- 17%, respectively). twenty-four-hour imaging after reinjection showed improvement in only four of 35 irreversible regions (involving three of the 50 patients). conclusions. these data indicate that thallium reinjection at rest after 3-4 hours of redistribution provides most of the clinically relevant information pertaining to myocardial viability in regions with apparently irreversible thallium defects. hence, thallium reinjection may be used instead of 24-hour imaging in most patients in whom a persistent thallium defect is observed on conventional redistribution images.
laparoscopic guided cholecystectomy. cholecystectomy remains the most effective form of therapy for patients with symptomatic cholelithiasis. an alternative method of gallbladder removal, laparoscopic guided cholecystectomy, was attempted in 100 patients. five patients required conversion of the laparoscopic procedure to an open laparotomy for the following reasons: discovery of a pancreatic malignancy in one patient, extensive adhesions in one, presence of an aberrant accessory right hepatic duct in one, common hepatic duct injury in one, and avulsion of the cystic duct in one. both ductal injuries occurred during the early phase of the clinical program. in those patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy, 93 were discharged within 24 hours of surgery and 94 returned to normal activity within 1 week. laparoscopic guided cholecystectomy appears to offer a number of advantages in patient care as well as a significant reduction in health care expenses for gallbladder disease. appropriate training in laparoscopic surgery is necessary in order to avoid operative complications.
neuroexcitatory plasma amino acids are elevated in migraine. to investigate the role of glutamic (glu) and aspartic acid (asp) in migraine, we measured the plasma amino acids in migraine patients with and without aura, between and during attacks, and compared the profiles with the plasma amino acid profiles of tension headache patients and healthy controls. between attacks, migraineurs (notably with aura) had substantially higher plasma glu and asp levels than did controls and tension headache patients. in addition, patients with migraine without aura showed low plasma histidine levels. during migraine attacks, glu (and to a lesser extent asp) levels were even further increased. the results suggest a defective cellular reuptake mechanism for glu and asp in migraineurs, and we hypothesize a similar defect at the neuronal/glial cell level, predisposing the brain of migraineurs to develop spreading depression.
clinical, radiographic, and hemodynamic correlations in chronic congestive heart failure: conflicting results may lead to inappropriate care. purpose: clinical and radiographic examinations are commonly used for estimating severity and titrating therapy of chronic congestive heart failure. the purpose of this study was to establish the relationship between findings on history, physical examination, chest roentgenogram, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (pcwp). patients and methods: fifty-two consecutive patients with chronic congestive heart failure, referred for evaluation for heart transplantation, were studied; all patients underwent history, physical examination, upright chest roentgenogram, and cardiac catheterization. the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 +/- 0.06. patients were divided into three groups according to their pcwp: group 1, normal pcwp (less than or equal to 15 mm hg, n = 19); group 2, mild to moderately elevated pcwp (16 to 29 mm hg, n = 15); group 3, markedly elevated pcwp (greater than or equal to 30 mm hg, n = 18). results: physical and radiographic signs of congestion were more common in the groups with higher pcwp, but they could not be used to reliably separate patients with different filling pressures. physical findings (orthopnea, edema, rales, third heart sound, elevated jugular venous pressure) or radiographic signs (cardiomegaly, vascular redistribution, and interstitial and alveolar edema) had poor predictive value for identifying patients with pcwp values greater than or equal to 30 mm hg. these findings had poor negative predictive value to exclude significantly elevated pcwp (greater than 20 mm hg). radiographic pulmonary congestion was absent in eight (53%) patients in group 2 and seven (39%) in group 3. in patients in group 2 and 3, those without radiographic congestion were in a better new york heart association functional class (3.5 +/- 0.5 versus 2.8 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.01). there was good correlation between right atrial pressure and pcwp (r = 0.64, p less than 0.001). a normal right atrial pressure had no predictive value, but a pressure greater than 10 mm hg was seen in all but one patient with a pcwp value greater than 20 mm hg. conclusion: clinical, radiographic, and hemodynamic evaluations of chronic congestive heart failure yield conflicting results. absence of radiographic or physical signs of congestion does not ensure normal pcwp values and may lead to inaccurate diagnosis and inadequate therapy. it is not known whether therapy aimed at normalizing pcwp is superior to relieving clinical and radiographic signs of congestion.
cross-linked hemoglobin solution as a resuscitative fluid after hemorrhage in the rat. intramolecularly (alpha-alpha) cross-linked hemoglobin has been reported to have oxygen transport properties similar to those of whole blood. the present study evaluated the efficacy of diaspirin alpha-alpha cross-linked hemoglobin solution as a resuscitation fluid, with heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and transcutaneous oxygen tension as the study parameters. rats were bled and approximately one third of their total blood volume (20 ml/kg) was removed while they were anesthetized; they were then resuscitated with 14% hemoglobin solution. animals that received either 10 mg/kg (n = 10) or 20 mg/kg (n = 10) of hemoglobin solution responded quickly and positively to the infusions: mean arterial pressure (which had dropped to less than 40% of prehemorrhage levels) returned to baseline within 2 minutes of initiating infusion; by 4 minutes, the mean arterial pressures of the hemoglobin-infused groups were significantly higher (p less than or equal to 0.05) than those in both the autologous shed blood (n = 8) and lactated ringer's (n = 10) groups. the heart rate and transcutaneous oxygen tension responses in both the half-volume and full-volume replacement hemoglobin groups matched the response to autologous shed blood throughout the hour of observation. the favorable hemodynamic response to infusion of cross-linked hemoglobin solution after hemorrhage suggests that this material is comparable to autologous shed blood and superior to lactated ringer's solution as a resuscitative fluid as assessed in this model.
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids. a patient with pernicious anemia, atrophic non-antral gastritis, hypergastrinemia, and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months, including 15 months after gastric resection. in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa, suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis.
the influence of warning signal timing and cognitive preparation on the aversiveness of electric shock. many medical and dental procedures are noxious. finding an optimal way of warning patients concerning the aversive procedures could help them to cope better. a model for the effective use of a warning signal in coping with pain posited that a person needs enough time to be able to react and should possess the skills necessary to utilize the time effectively. it was felt that a very short warning period, e.g., 5 sec, could not be long enough, while a 180 sec warning period would in and of itself become aversive. reactions to electric shock were obtained from 36 paid, volunteer subjects who were each tested on a within-subject, counterbalanced order at 4 different warning periods: 5, 30, 60, and 180 sec. the subjects were divided into 3 groups: (1) the experimental group was provided with a pretested self-instructional booklet to learn a variety of pain control techniques; (2) the placebo group was provided with a self-instructional booklet on citizenship; (3) the control group waited quietly for 13 min. no significant results were obtained for the different pain-coping conditions. significant differences, however, were obtained for the various warning periods. maximum skin resistance changes, higher ratings of pain and of anxiety were obtained for the 60 and 180 compared to the 5 and 30 sec warning periods. maximum heart rate was obtained for the 30 sec warning. results were discussed in terms of the psychological meaning of the various measures as well as their clinical implications.
early diastolic clicks after the fontan procedure for double inlet left ventricle: anatomical and physiological correlates. m mode echocardiograms and simultaneous phonocardiograms were recorded in four patients with early diastolic clicks on auscultation. all had double inlet left ventricle and had undergone the fontan procedure with closure of the right atrioventricular valve orifice by an artificial patch. the phonocardiogram confirmed a high frequency sound occurring 60-90 ms after aortic valve closure and coinciding with the time of maximal excursion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass. one patient had coexisting congenital complete heart block. the m mode echocardiogram showed "reversed" motion of the patch towards the right atrium during atrial contraction. doppler flow studies showed that coincident with this motion there was forward flow in the pulmonary artery with augmentation when atrial contraction coincided with ventricular systole. the early diastolic click in these patients was explained by abrupt cessation of the motion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass in early diastole. in one patient atrial contraction led to a reversal of this motion and was associated with forward flow in the pulmonary artery.
spect imaging of pediatric brain tumor with hexakis (methoxyisobutylisonitrile) technetium (i). technetium-99m-hexamibi [hexakis (methoxyisobutylisonitrile) technetium (i)] was developed as a myocardial perfusion agent with biologic properties similar to those of thallium-201 (201ti). as 201ti has recently been observed to be of value for the diagnosis of brain tumors when used in conjunction with single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) imaging technology, the possibility that the biologic similarity of the two radiopharmaceuticals extended to their affinity for tumors was tested. a 5-yr-old female patient with a brain stem astrocytoma showed marked focal uptake of 99mtc-hexamibi at the site of tumor recurrence as defined by biopsy and prior 201ti/spect study. tumor-to-normal cortex radioactivity ratios for the 99mtc-hexamibi/spect study were 132:1 and the spatial resolution of the 99mtc-hexamibi images was high. this observation suggests that 99mtc-hexamibi merits further study as a potential agent for spect imaging of human brain tumors.
the supraspinal anxiolytic effect of baclofen for spasticity reduction. recent studies in the psychiatric literature indicate that baclofen has an anxiolytic action in certain psychopathologic conditions. clinical observation has shown that manifestations of spasticity are increased in anxious individuals, implicating a supraspinal site of mediation for these responses. the purposes of this study were to determine if baclofen reduced anxiety in individuals with traumatic spinal cord lesions and whether that reduction was correlated with decreased spasticity from the baclofen. five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injury were randomly assigned to the study protocol. a double-blind, repeated measures, multiple base-line, single-case research design was employed. the independent variable was dose of medication with the three levels being placebo, 40 mg/day of baclofen and 80 mg/day of baclofen, in four evenly divided doses. the dependent variable was the score obtained on the beck inventory-a anxiety scale (bia). the subjects were administered the bia twice per week for a nine-week period of time, during which they received the doses of medication as described. quantitative measurements of spasticity were also taken at each session. visual inspection analysis of the data showed that two subjects had no measurable anxiety of the bia throughout the study. three subjects had measurable anxiety on the bia during the base-line/placebo phase. they showed a decreased level of their bia scores with 40 mg/day of baclofen, and a further level reduction with 80 mg/day of baclofen. the reduction in bia scores was statistically significant using the standard deviation band test in one of these subjects. these data indicate that bia probably has an anxiolytic effect for individuals status post-traumatic spinal cord injury.
sixty consecutive breast reconstructions with the inflatable expander: a critical appraisal. breast reconstruction using inflatable expanders has become an established and preferred technique. although our knowledge of the biomechanical changes occurring in expanded skin has increased greatly, little information is available regarding average aesthetic results achieved with this technique. in order to eliminate the bias of best case selection reports, this study of 60 consecutive patients undergoing skin-expansion breast reconstruction was undertaken. results of the study demonstrated a significant frequency and diversity of complications. in particular, immediate breast reconstruction with skin expanders was identified as a high-risk procedure because of its association with skin necrosis and delayed wound healing. although two procedures--insertion and replacement--had been anticipated, patients from both the boston and new york groups required approximately three operations to complete the expansion process. average aesthetic results, often characterized by problems of symmetry, ptosis, and contour, need to be recognized and improved.
recurrent transient ischemic attacks and stroke in association with an internal carotid artery web fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic vascular disease that most commonly affects cervical carotid arteries at the c1-c2 level when cephalic arteries are involved. several histopathologic and angiographic subtypes of fibromuscular dysplasia exist; most have a benign natural history. we describe the third reported case of a pathologically proven, symptomatic proximal internal carotid artery web and suggest that patients with this lesion are at a higher risk for stroke.
primary defect in alpha-adrenergic responsiveness in patients with varicose veins. responsiveness of superficial hand veins to local infusions of noradrenaline was compared in patients with primary varicose veins and in healthy volunteers by use of the dorsal hand vein technique. patients with varicose veins required significantly higher doses of noradrenaline for half-maximal venoconstriction than the dose required by control subjects (geometric mean, 11.6 ng/min in patients compared with 4.8 ng/min in control subjects; p = 0.006). noradrenaline responsiveness in varicose veins was not significantly different from hand vein responsiveness in the same patients. our findings indicate a constitutional decrease in venous alpha-adrenergic receptor responsiveness in patients with varicosities. dilation of varicose veins does not further affect noradrenaline-induced venoconstriction.
the van nes tibial rotationplasty. a functionally viable reconstructive procedure in children who have a tumor of the distal end of the femur. twelve patients who had a malignant tumor of the distal end of the femur were treated with a van nes tibial rotationplasty. the survival rates were comparable with those for above-the-knee amputees and patients who had an endoprosthetic replacement. the results of functional testing showed that these patients performed as well as those who had endoprosthetic replacement and better than those who had above-the-knee amputation. rotationplasty is therefore a favorable alternative to amputation or endoprosthetic replacement, either as a primary or as a salvage procedure.
disposition of 5-aminosalicylic acid by olsalazine and three mesalazine preparations in patients with ulcerative colitis: comparison of intraluminal colonic concentrations, serum values, and urinary excretion. to compare the disposition of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-asa) and its acetylated metabolite during treatment with olsalazine and mesalazine, 14 patients with inactive ulcerative colitis were randomly assigned to olsalazine (1 g twice daily) and the mesalazines, asacol (800 + 400 + 800 mg daily), pentasa (750 + 500 + 750 mg daily), and salofalk (750 + 500 + 750 mg daily) in a crossover design trial so that all received each drug for seven days. intraluminal colonic concentrations of 5-asa were estimated after five days by the method of equilibrium in vivo dialysis of faeces. a predose serum sample and a 24 hour urine collection were obtained on day seven. the 5-asa and acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid (ac-5-asa) values were determined by high performance liquid chromatography. olsalazine almost doubled the colonic concentrations (mean 23.7 (sem) (1.9) mmol/l) of its therapeutically active ingredient (5-asa) compared with equimolar doses of pentasa (12.6 (2.2) mmol/l; p less than 0.0003) and salofalk (15.0 (2.0) mmol/l; p less than 0.003). at the same time, olsalazine treatment was associated with lower serum concentrations and urinary excretions (p less than 0.05) of 5-asa and ac-5-asa compared with the mesalazine preparations. the low systemic load of 5-asa provided by olsalazine reduces the potential risk of nephrotoxicity during long term treatment.
treatment of angiomas with sclerosing injection of hydroxypolyethoxydodecan. the authors discuss the indications for hydroxypolyethoxydodecan in the sclerosing treatment of angiomas, with particular reference to cavernous, venous, and evolutive angiomas (ie, immature angiomas that fail to involute by eight to ten months). moreover, the sclerosing agent may be employed, in connection with embolization and subsequent surgery, in arteriovenous angiomas with a relevant cutaneous-subcutaneous development. the authors have successfully used the "interstitial" sclerosing technique, according to andrews' method. this technique involves interstitial injections to obtain the sclerosis of the thin threads of fibrous tissue stroma between the blood vessels. the sclerosing therapy may cause the complete regression of "low flow" angiomas or, at least, a partial reduction that simplifies the ensuing surgical excision. in the case of partial regression of the angioma obtained with the sclerosing therapy, the surgery of the remaining angioma causes a lesser degree of bleeding (especially in areas that do not particularly lend themselves to surgical exploration, ie, the oral cavity); an increased reliability in the radicality of the intervention (due also to the reduced size of the lesion); and better results from an aesthetic-functional point of view.
cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and fatal coronary vasospasm. the histopathological basis of coronary vasospasm is not well defined. we report a patient with directly observed coronary artery spasm in whom cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and great vessels and myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve were evident. we suggest that myxoid connective tissue lesions of the heart may be linked to coronary vasospasm.
natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited. to define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke, we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the cornell neurology database from october 1979 to june 1985. analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables. twenty-five patients (36%) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin, another two (3%) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage, and a total of 10 patients (14%) had bleeding complications. no clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin. clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time. without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke, many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin. our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke. furthermore, frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome.
nasal valve malfunction resulting from resection of cancer. following cancer resection of the nasal unit, nasal valve malfunction is manifested by the symptoms of nasal stuffiness or difficulty getting air into the nostril. these symptoms occur in cases in which the resection is in the alar crease at the junction with the lateral sidewall of the nose. wound scar contracture elevates the alar margin and causes the alar and lateral cartilages to move inward forming a visible and palpable shelf on the lateral wall of the nasal vestibule. this displacement of the alar and lateral cartilages and the rigid scar formed between these cartilages render the nasal valve immobile. since it is easier to prevent nasal valve malfunction than to repair it later, wounds that bridge the alar crease or are located in either the alae or lateral sidewall and come within 1 mm of the alar crease with a total diameter of 1.0 cm should be repaired to prevent nasal valve malfunction. in the process of repairing deep defects, the overlapping region of the lateral crus of the alar cartilage and the lateral cartilage may be stabilized by a conchal cartilage graft. this cartilage graft may be used in combination with reconstruction of the nasal skin with a forehead flap and repair of the nasal lining. in the event that the nasal lining is intact, the cartilage graft may be used with a full-thickness skin graft.
a blood-liquid interface for prolonged extracorporeal oxygenation with excellent antithrombogenicity. the authors verified the excellent antithrombogenicity of a blood-liquid interface (bli) and introduced an oxygenator based on the principle of gas exchange across direct bli. in a newly developed oxygenator, three layers of liquid flowed horizontally, contacting one another: o2 saturated silicone oil on the top, o2 saturated fluorcarbon at the bottom, and blood in the middle. gas exchange was carried out across both direct blis. this system provided excellent antithrombogenicity as well as good gas exchange. the results indicate that this method will become a promising modality for prolonged extracorporeal oxygenation.
genetic mechanisms of tumor suppression by the human p53 gene. mutations of the gene encoding p53, a 53-kilodalton cellular protein, are found frequently in human tumor cells, suggesting a crucial role for this gene in human oncogenesis. to model the stepwise mutation or loss of both p53 alleles during tumorigenesis, a human osteosarcoma cell line, saos-2, was used that completely lacked endogenous p53. single copies of exogenous p53 genes were then introduced by infecting cells with recombinant retroviruses containing either point-mutated or wild-type versions of the p53 cdna sequence. expression of wild-type p53 suppressed the neoplastic phenotype of saos-2 cells, whereas expression of mutated p53 conferred a limited growth advantage to cells in the absence of wild-type p53. wild-type p53 was phenotypically dominant to mutated p53 in a two-allele configuration. these results suggest that, as with the retinoblastoma gene, mutation of both alleles of the p53 gene is essential for its role in oncogenesis.
the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 polyadenylylation signal: a 3' long terminal repeat element upstream of the aauaaa necessary for efficient polyadenylylation. several polyadenylylation (pa) signals containing elements upstream of the aauaaa have recently been characterized. similar to pa elements found downstream of the aauaaa, the upstream elements function to increase efficiency of aauaaa use as a signal for cleavage and pa. using deletion and linker scanning mutations we show that the pa signal of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 contains upstream elements transcribed from the u3 region of the 3' long terminal repeat. the element that has the greatest effect on pa site use lies 77 to 94 nucleotides upstream of the aauaaa, between the tata element and the transcriptional initiation site. mutations in the adjacent region, between 59 and 76 nucleotides upstream of the aauaaa, have a smaller effect on pa efficiency. mutations in a region further upstream, between 141 and 176 nucleotides upstream of the aauaaa, also affected pa modestly. functional similarity between upstream elements was indicated by the ability of the human immunodeficiency virus upstream region to replace the upstream region of the simian virus 40 late pa signal. the sequence of the major upstream element of human immunodeficiency virus is uracil-rich, analogous to many defined downstream pa elements. this fact may imply that upstream and downstream elements have similar mechanisms of action.
use of a computerized closed-loop sodium nitroprusside titration system for antihypertensive treatment after open heart surgery. this study evaluates the clinical applicability of administering sodium nitroprusside by a closed-loop titration system compared with a manually adjusted system. the mean arterial pressure (map) was registered every 10 and 30 sec during the first 150 min after open heart surgery in 20 patients (group 1: computer regulation) and in ten patients (group 2: manual regulation). the results (16,343 and 2,912 data points in groups 1 and 2, respectively), were then analyzed in four time frames and five pressure ranges to indicate clinical efficacy. sixty percent of the measured map in both groups was within the desired +/- 10% during the first 10 min. thereafter until the end of observation, the map was maintained within +/- 10% of the desired set-point 90% of the time in group 1 vs. 60% of the time in group 2. one percent and 11% of data points were +/- 20% from the set-point in groups 1 and 2, respectively (p less than .05, chi-square test). the computer-assisted therapy provided better control of map, was safe to use, and helped to reduce nursing demands.
fetal choroid plexus cysts: a prospective study and review of the literature. to determine the incidence and significance of fetal choroid plexus cysts, a prospective study was carried out at queen's medical centre, nottingham. the incidence of cysts was found to be 0.42% and the size of cysts varied from 3 to 13 mm with a mean diameter of 6.2 mm. choroid plexus cysts were associated with other fetal abnormalities in three cases, two of which were subsequently found to have a chromosomal abnormality, one trisomy 18 and one trisomy 21. a review of the reported cases of choroid plexus cysts reveals an overall incidence of 5.8% for trisomy 18. we therefore recommend that in patients with choroid plexus cysts a detailed scan should be carried out to look for the ultrasound markers of trisomy 18. if there is an associated abnormality or cysts are large (13 mm or greater in diameter) and bilateral then a karyotyping should be carried out.
pyloric deformation from peptic disease. radiographic evidence for incompetence rather than obstruction. we have used double-contrast radiographic techniques to clarify what changes in the configuration and movements of the gastroduodenal junction result when peptic lesions involve the distal gastric segment between the proximal (ppl) and the distal pyloric muscle loop (dpl). among 50 cases of pyloric ulceration diagnosed during a four-year study period, 18 cases fulfilled all study criteria. ulcers maintained a consistent location with regard to the muscular structures of the pylorus, and by affecting these structures, led to many strange deformations of the gastric outlet including permanent pseudodiverticula and reversal of pyloric angulation. the most common site for peptic lesions in the pyloric segment was the protuberance of the lesser curvature called the pyloric torus; many torus lesions extended into and destroyed the dpl. this led to widening of the gastric outlet and radiographic evidence of increased duodenogastric reflux. pyloric closure was further impaired in this setting because the mucosa no longer prolapsed into the gastric outlet and did not occlude the pyloric lumen as it normally does. less common lesions involved the greater curvature and the ppl. in one patient, scarring of the ppl led to an antral web and gastric hyperperistalsis. this was the only patient who required operation for chronic gastric outlet obstruction. one-third of the 18 patients had reflux esophagitis in addition to peptic pyloric disease. in most patients without additional ulcerogenic risk factors, treatment with antisecretory agents led to the healing of ulcer craters. we conclude that the morphologic and functional changes of the gastric outlet caused by peptic lesions depend, in part, on the effect the ulcer has on the underlying pyloric musculature.
scoliosis in trisomy 18. patients with trisomy 18 typically present with multiple congenital anomalies and most die within the first year. however, long-term survivors are not uncommon. seventeen patients with trisomy 18 were evaluated to study the development of scoliosis associated with this disorder. there were 13 females and 4 males with ages ranging from birth to 22 years. twelve patients died by age 2. none developed scoliosis or had vertebral anomalies. the five patients who survived beyond age 2 developed scoliosis. curve progression was demonstrated in the patients who returned for follow-up. bracing was not well tolerated in two patients with curves of 48 degrees and 58 degrees. both had poor motor control and sitting ability. one patient with a 30 degree curve was successfully managed by bracing. another patient with a severe scoliosis was successfully fused with anterior and posterior instrumentation. patients with trisomy 18 should be carefully evaluated for scoliosis. scoliosis in the older child, surviving beyond age 2, may be progressive and difficult to manage.
single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction. the mainstay for repairing subglottic and tracheal stenosis has been the rib graft with prolonged stenting. a refinement of this treatment was the use of the anterior cricoid decompression (split). we present single-stage reconstruction of the airway as an additional refinement of the laryngotracheoplasty. this article describes the experience of two institutions with single-stage reconstruction and offers some observations on the principles of the technique.
giant-cell arteritis of the uterus with associated temporal arteritis: a case report. giant-cell arteritis involving the uterus was identified incidentally upon hysterectomy and anterior colporrhaphy for uterine prolapse. subsequently, the patient was found to have giant-cell temporal arteritis presenting with fever of unknown origin. fourteen previous cases involving the female genital tract have been reported. there appears to be an association between constitutional symptoms of fever, weight loss, malaise, headache, and polymyalgia rheumatica in elderly women with uterine prolapse and giant-cell arteritis of the genital tract. the rare presentation of giant-cell arteritis in the female genital tract does not support invasive costly evaluation in asymptomatic patients. however, a thorough investigation for involvement of other sites, including appropriate treatment for generalized disease, should be undertaken.
the determinants and prognostic significance of serum uric acid in elderly patients of the european working party on high blood pressure in the elderly trial. determinants and risks associated with serum uric acid were investigated in 822 elderly hypertensive patients treated with hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene or placebo. pretreatment serum uric acid levels were significantly higher in men than in women and had positive correlation with serum creatinine. after adjustment for serum creatinine, positive correlations of serum uric acid with body weight and fasting blood glucose in women and with serum cholesterol in men were significant. during follow-up, serum uric acid increased significantly in the treated patients, but remained unchanged in the placebo group. total, cardiovascular, and noncardiovascular mortality were unrelated to initial serum uric acid levels. one placebo patient and seven treated patients developed gout. of those seven, most were male patients and had significantly higher serum levels of uric acid and creatinine than the other patients. gender and renal function were the major determinants of serum uric acid in elderly hypertensive patients.
primary de novo adenocarcinoma of the colon measuring 8 mm in diameter with lymph node metastases. report of a case. colonic adenocarcinomas measuring less than 10 mm are rare. herein, we report a carcinoma measuring 8 mm in diameter associated with subserosal extension through a "locus minoris resistentiae" and metastases to lymph nodes, an association not previously reported. no residual adenomatous tissue was found, suggesting a de novo carcinoma.
extensive peripheral retinectomy combined with posterior 360 degrees retinotomy for retinal reattachment in advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy cases. posterior 360 degrees retinotomy in conjunction with extensive peripheral retinectomy was necessary for retinal reattachment in 18 eyes. a visual acuity of 20/400 or better was achieved in 22% of the patients; in patients with rubeosis, regression was found in 89%. of the hypotonus eyes, preoperatively 78% were normotensive postoperatively after removal of anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy (pvr) covering ciliary epithelium. the major intraoperative complication was hemorrhage, which could be readily controlled. recurrent retinal detachment (rd) occurred in 39% and reproliferation in 50% of the patients.
early diagnosis and survival of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. the hospital records of patients treated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a recent 5-year period were reviewed to collect data on factors which may be associated with mortality. overall mortality was 62%. patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality (97%) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture (25%). patients at increased risk were older than 80 years, presented with syncope, experienced a short duration of symptoms prior to emergency department (ed) arrival, had initial systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg, and/or initial hemoglobin level less than eight on arrival at the ed and delay in beginning surgery. multivariate analysis demonstrated preoperative blood pressure, preoperative hemoglobin, presence of syncope, and the amount of blood transfused were largely reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality. the authors concluded that treating emergency physicians and surgeons have little control over the most important risk factors for mortality after aneurysm rupture, but may improve the prognosis by expediting diagnosis in the ed and surgical therapy.
embolization with particles in thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations: long-term angiographic and clinical results. to evaluate the long-term results of endovascular treatment with particles in the management of thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations (avms), the authors retrospectively reviewed the angiographic and clinical findings in 35 patients. follow-up was 1-15 years (mean, 6 years) in 28 patients and 6-10 months (mean, 7 months) in seven. a total of 158 embolization procedures were performed in 35 patients. revascularization occurred frequently, necessitating multiple endovascular sessions. long-term clinical evaluation showed clinical improvement, compared with the initial status before treatment, in 63% of the patients. clinical aggravation due to embolization was observed in seven patients (20%) after 12 of the 158 endovascular sessions (8%). these results are better than those reported after surgery and indicate that embolization with particles is an efficient and safe tool in the treatment of thoracic intramedullary avms.
quadricuspid aortic valve and aortic regurgitation diagnosed by doppler echocardiography: report of two cases and review of the literature. two cases of patients with quadricuspid aortic valve diagnosed by doppler echocardiography are presented. aortic regurgitation was detected by pulsed doppler echocardiography in both patients. because they were young patients, this aortic regurgitation indicated that aortic regurgitation is not necessarily a late-developing event, as has been thought previously.
mammographic measurements before and after augmentation mammaplasty. thirty-five augmented women underwent mammography using both the standard implant-compression technique and, when possible, the implant-displacement technique; all had preaugmentation film-screen mammography available for evaluation. the area of mammographically visualized breast tissue before and after augmentation mammaplasty was measured using a transparent grid. patients with subglandular implants had a mean decrease of 49 percent of measurable tissue area with compression mammography and a 39 percent decrease with displacement mammography. patients with submuscular implants had a 28 percent decrease in measurable tissue area with compression mammography and a 9 percent decrease with displacement mammography. anterior breast tissue was seen better with displacement mammography; posterior breast tissue, with compression mammography. most patients had some degree of parenchymal scarring and lower image quality after augmentation. state-of-the-art mammography was not possible in most patients augmented with silicone-gel-filled implants.
use of leukocyte-depleted platelet concentrates for the prevention of refractoriness and primary hla alloimmunization: a prospective, randomized trial. compared with conventional transfusion regimes a strong reduction in hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions is obtained when both red blood cell concentrates (rbcs) and platelet concentrates (pcs) are depleted of leukocytes by filtration. because most of the leukocyte contamination is introduced by transfusion of rbcs, filtration of rbcs appears rational, but uncertainty exists regarding the degree of leukocyte-depletion of pcs needed for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness. we conducted a prospective trial and randomized patients with acute leukemia to receive leukocyte-depleted pcs prepared either by centrifugation (mean leukocyte count 35 x 10(6)/pc of 6 u) or by filtration (mean leukocyte count less than 5 x 10(6)/pc of 6 u). both groups received rbcs that were filtered after prior removal of the buffy coat. clinical refractoriness occurred in 46% (12 of 26) of the evaluable patients that were transfused with centrifuged pcs and only in 11% (3 of 27) in the filtered group (p less than .005). de novo anti-hla antibodies were detected in 42% (11 of 26) patients in the centrifuged group and only in 7% (2 of 27) of the patients receiving filtered pcs (p less than .004). in 8 of 11 alloimmunized patients in the centrifuged group antibodies were detected in the first 4 weeks of transfusion therapy while none of the patients in the filtered group became immunized against hla antigens during that period. we conclude that for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions from random donors, both rbcs and pcs have to be leukocyte-depleted by filtration.
complications of tenckhoff catheters post removal. complications due to tenckhoff catheters can occur at prolonged intervals after their removal. from january 1979 to october 1989, 431 patients at our center began continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd), 278 of whom subsequently transferred to another form of renal replacement therapy. we identified 12 patients (4.3% or 12/278) with post removal catheter complications. there were 14 post removal complications, two each in two patients, and one in each of 12 others. the mean time to complication was 541 +/- 143 days (27-2,040). in 71% (10/14) of the complications, an abscess was found at the site of the previously removed tenckhoff catheter. in 29% (4/14) of the complications, foreign body material consistent with a retained cuff was recovered. documentation at the time of tenckhoff catheter removal should include a statement regarding the presence of the tenckhoff catheter cuffs, and patients with retained cuffs should be monitored closely for the development of abscesses or other complications. immunocompromised patients are at high risk for these complications.
fatal or severely disabling cerebral infarction during hospitalization for stroke or transient ischemic attack. six (1%) of 578 patients admitted for cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack (tia) suffered a fatal or severely disabling in-hospital cerebral infarction following a period of stabilization or improvement lasting more than 1 day. these infarctions were characterized by the sudden onset of stupor or coma and subsequent development of transtentorial herniation due to carotid or middle cerebral artery territory infarction, or widespread brain-stem infarction due to basilar occlusion. only one patient survived. four patients had large-vessel disease documented by doppler, angiography, or at autopsy. each of these six infarcts occurred during the morning hours, 4-9 days after the initial event, 3-8 days after initiation of intravenous heparin, and within 4-8 h after intravenous heparin had been discontinued. no coagulation abnormalities were documented. we believe that these cases indicate that among patients admitted for cerebral infarction or tia, fatal or severely disabling in-hospital cerebral infarction after a period of stabilization or improvement may occur in patients having an initially mild to moderate clinical deficit, that those suffering large artery disease may be at greater risk, and that there may be a relationship between heparin withdrawal and cerebral infarction in some patients.
